# Pair breaking by nonmagnetic impurities in the noncentrosymmetric
superconductor CePt₃Si

M. Nicklas,^(1,)* F. Steglich,¹ J. Knolle,² I. Eremin,^(2, 3, †) R.
Lackner,⁴ and E. Bauer⁴

¹Max Planck Institute for Chemical Physics of Solids, D-01187 Dresden,
Germany

²Max Planck Institute for the Physics of Complex Systems, D-01187
Dresden, Germany

³Institut fur Mathematische und Theoretische Physik, TU Braunschweig,
D-38106 Braunschweig, Germany

⁴Institut fur Festkorperphysik, Technische Universitat Wien, A-1040
Wien, Austria

###### Abstract

We have studied the effect of Ge substitution and pressure on the
heavy-fermion superconductor CePt₃Si. Ge substitution on the Si site
acts as negative chemical pressure leading to an increase in the
unit-cell volume but also introduces chemical disorder. We carried out
electrical resistivity and ac heat-capacity experiments under
hydrostatic pressure on CePt₃Si_(1 − x)Ge_(x) (x=0,0.06). Our
experiments show that the suppression of superconductivity in
CePt₃Si_(1 − x)Ge_(x) is mainly caused by the scattering potential,
rather than volume expansion, introduced by the Ge dopants. The
antiferromagnetic order is essentially not affected by the chemical
disorder.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.81.180511

pacs: 71.27.+a, 74.25.Dw, 74.62.Fj, 74.70.Tx + Footnote †: preprint:
APS/123-QED

The physics of unconventional superconductivity in materials without
inversion symmetry like the noncentrosymmetric heavy-fermion (HF)
superconductor CePt₃Si_(1 − x)Ge_(x) (x=0,0.06). Our experiments show
that the suppression of superconductivity in CePt₃Si_(1 − x)Ge_(x) is
mainly caused by the scattering potential, rather than volume expansion,
introduced by the Ge dopants. The antiferromagnetic order is essentially
not affected by the chemical disorder.

The physics of unconventional superconductivity in materials without
inversion symmetry like the noncentrosymmetric heavy-fermion (HF)
superconductor CePt₃Si_(1 − x)Ge_(x) (x=0,0.06). Our experiments show
that the suppression of superconductivity in CePt₃Si_(1 − x)Ge_(x) is
mainly caused by the scattering potential, rather than volume expansion,
introduced by the Ge dopants. The antiferromagnetic order is essentially
not affected by the chemical disorder.

The physics of unconventional superconductivity in materials without
inversion symmetry like the noncentrosymmetric heavy-fermion (HF)
superconductor CePt₃Si_(1 − x)Ge_(x) (x=0,0.06). Our experiments show
that the suppression of superconductivity in CePt₃Si_(1 − x)Ge_(x) is
mainly caused by the scattering potential, rather than volume expansion,
introduced by the Ge dopants. The antiferromagnetic order is essentially
not affected by the chemical disorder.

The physics of unconventional superconductivity in materials without
inversion symmetry like the noncentrosymmetric heavy-fermion (HF)
superconductor CePt₃Si_(1 − x)Ge_(x) (x=0,0.06). Our experiments show
that the suppression of superconductivity in CePt₃Si_(1 − x)Ge_(x) is
mainly caused by the scattering potential, rather than volume expansion,
introduced by the Ge dopants. The antiferromagnetic order is essentially
not affected by the chemical disorder.

The physics of unconventional superconductivity in materials without
inversion symmetry like the noncentrosymmetric heavy-fermion (HF)
superconductor CePt₃Si_(1 − x)Ge_(x) (x=0,0.06). Our experiments show
that the suppression of superconductivity in CePt₃Si_(1 − x)Ge_(x) is
mainly caused by the scattering potential, rather than volume expansion,
introduced by the Ge dopants. The antiferromagnetic order is essentially
not affected by the chemical disorder.

The physics of unconventional superconductivity in materials without
inversion symmetry like the noncentrosymmetric heavy-fermion (HF)
superconductor CePt₃Si_(1 − x)Ge_(x) (x=0,0.06). Our experiments show
that the suppression of superconductivity in CePt₃Si_(1 − x)Ge_(x) is
mainly caused by the scattering potential, rather than volume expansion,
introduced by the Ge dopants. The antiferromagnetic order is essentially
not affected by the chemical disorder.

The physics of unconventional superconductivity in materials without
inversion symmetry like the noncentrosymmetric heavy-fermion (HF)
superconductor CePt₃Si_(1 − x)Ge_(x) (x=0,0.06). Our experiments show
that the suppression of superconductivity in CePt₃Si_(1 − x)Ge_(x) is
mainly caused by the scattering potential, rather than volume expansion,
introduced by the Ge dopants. The antiferromagnetic order is essentially
not affected by the chemical disorder.

The physics of unconventional superconductivity in materials without
inversion symmetry like the noncentrosymmetric heavy-fermion (HF)
superconductor CePt₃Si_(1 − x)Ge_(x) (x=0,0.06). Our experiments show
that the suppression of superconductivity in CePt₃Si_(1 − x)Ge_(x) is
mainly caused by the scattering potential, rather than volume expansion,
introduced by the Ge dopants. The antiferromagnetic order is essentially
not affected by the chemical disorder.

The physics of unconventional superconductivity in materials without
inversion symmetry like the noncentrosymmetric heavy-fermion (HF)
superconductor CePt₃Si_(1 − x)Ge_(x) (x=0,0.06). Our experiments show
that the suppression of superconductivity in CePt₃Si_(1 − x)Ge_(x) is
mainly caused by the scattering potential, rather than volume expansion,
introduced by the Ge dopants. The antiferromagnetic order is essentially
not affected by the chemical disorder.

The physics of unconventional superconductivity in materials without
inversion symmetry like the noncentrosymmetric heavy-fermion (HF)
superconductor CePt₃Si_(1 − x)Ge_(x) (x=0,0.06). Our experiments show
that the suppression of superconductivity in CePt₃Si_(1 − x)Ge_(x) is
mainly caused by the scattering potential, rather than volume expansion,
introduced by the Ge dopants. The antiferromagnetic order is essentially
not affected by the chemical disorder.

The physics of unconventional superconductivity in materials without
inversion symmetry like the noncentrosymmetric heavy-fermion (HF)
superconductor CePt₃Si_(1 − x)Ge_(x) (x=0,0.06). Our experiments show
that the suppression of superconductivity in CePt₃Si_(1 − x)Ge_(x) is
mainly caused by the scattering potential, rather than volume expansion,
introduced by the Ge dopants. The antiferromagnetic order is essentially
not affected by the chemical disorder.

## I Introduction

The superconductivity in CePt₃Si_(1 − x)Ge_(x) is mainly caused by the
scattering potential, rather than volume expansion, introduced by the Ge
dopants. The antiferromagnetic order is essentially not affected by the
chemical disorder.

The physics of unconventional superconductivity in materials without
inversion symmetry like the noncentrosymmetric heavy-fermion (HF)
superconductor CePt₃Si_(1 − x)Ge_(x) (x=0,0.

high temperatures. The position of the high-T shoulder is nearly
independent of pressure, which indicates that the overall CEF splitting
is not changing significantly in the pressure range up to 2 GPa. On the
other hand, the low-T shoulder shifts strongly to higher temperature
with increasing pressure and finally merges with the high-T shoulder.
This behavior is typical for Ce-based Kondo-lattice compounds where
T_(K) generally increases with pressure. Although, the overall pressure
and temperature dependence of the resistivity is similar for both, pure
and Ge-substituted CePt₃Si, the low-T shoulder depends much stronger on
pressure in case of CePt₃Si_(0.94)Ge_(0.06) At 1.31 GPa, a clear local
shoulder at low temperatures is still apparent in the Ge-substituted
compound, while in the case of pure CePt₃Si it has already merged with
the high-T shoulder. Thus the pressure response of T_(K) in
CePt₃Si_(0.94)Ge_(0.06) exceeds the one in CePt₃Si.

At p=0, CePt₃Si and CePt₃Si_(0.94)Ge_(0.06) order antiferromagnetically
at T_(N)=2.2 and 2.8 K, before becoming SC at T_(c)=0.75 K and 0.29 K,
respectively.[11] A smooth change in the curvature indicates the onset
of antiferromagnetic (AF) order in ρ(T). The inflection point of ρ(T)
agrees well with T_(N) obtained from specific-heat data [cf. inset of
Fig. 1(b)]. In the following we define T_(N) from the inflection point
in ρ(T). T_(N)(p) is suppressed with increasing pressure. Above p^(*)≈
0.6 GPa, no signature of the AF transition is observed anymore in either
ρ(T) or C(T) data, suggesting a sudden suppression of T_(N)(p) in both
materials. For CePt₃Si similar results have been reported previously.[9;
10] Consistent with the stronger pressure dependence of T_(K) in the
Ge-substituted system, the absolute value of its slope
|dT_(N)(p)/dp|_(p = 0) is larger than that of the stoichiometric
compound [dT_(N)(p)/dp|_(p = 0)=−1.2 K/GPa and −0.94 K/GPa,
respectively].

Figure 2 shows the results of a fit of ρ(T)=ρ₀+A^(′)T^(′) to the low-T
resistivity data (T_(c) ≤ T ≤ min{T_(N), 4 K). As expected, the
alloying-induced disorder causes an increase in the residual
resistivity, ρ₀, by a factor of about 4 from CePt₃Si to
CePt₃Si_(0.94)Ge_(0.06). For both samples ρ₀(p) is nearly pressure
independent; only a weak decrease is observed for the Ge-substituted
sample. Especially, there is no feature in ρ₀(p) at p^(*) where the AF
order disappears. ρ(T) follows a T² behavior inside the AF state.
Simultaneously with the loss of the signature of the Neel transition in
resistivity and heat capacity, the temperature dependence of ρ changes
drastically for both compounds in that the pressure dependence of
resistivity exponent n(p) exhibits a sharp step from n ≈ 2 below

Figure 1: (Color) ρ(T) normalized by ρ_(000 K) of (a) CePt₃Si and (b)
CePt₃Si_(0.94)Ge_(0.06) on a logarithmic temperature scale for different
pressures. Inset of (b): heat capacity of CePt₃Si_(0.94)Ge_(0.06)
plotted as C ≈ 1 /V_(ac) vs T for p=0.24, 0.46, and 0.88 GPa. T_(N),
determined by an equal entropy approximation, is indicated by arrows.

Figure 2: (Color online) Fit parameters, (a) ρ₀, (b) A^(′), and (c) n
obtained by fitting the low-temperature normal-state resistivity using
ρ(T)=ρ₀+A^(′)T^(′). In addition to the results from this work, for
CePt₃Si data from Ref. [8] has been analyzed (diamonds). The vertical
dotted line delineates the border between the AF and the PM regions.
Dashed lines are guides to the eye.

 = 0.6 GPa to ≈ 1.3 at higher pressure. Therefore, the heavy
Fermi-liquid (FL) phase (n = 2) at low pressure becomes unstable against
a non-Fermi-liquid phase (n < 2), which exists in the whole pressure
range p^(*) < p ≡ 1.88 GPa, the highest pressure in our experiment. In
the FL phase A^(′) is a measure of the effective
quasiparticle-quasiparticle (QP-QP) scattering cross section. A^(′)
stays constant in the AF phase and, therefore, the QP-QP scattering
cross section does not change. In particular, there is no divergence of
the QP-QP scattering rate or a strong increase in ρ₀(p) as it might be
expected on approaching a quantum critical point.

The results of our experiments are summarized in the phase diagram
displayed in Fig. 3. T_(c, ρ) onset and T_(c, ρ) final are taken as the
temperatures where the resistivity is reduced to 90

Considering the domelike shape of the SC phase often observed in a T-p
phase diagram in HF superconductors, CePt₃Si seems to be situated close
to the T_(c) maximum which occurs at a hypothetical minor negative
pressure.[11] The small initial slope of T_(c)(p) suggests that the
maximum T_(c) exceeds T_(c) at ambient pressure only slightly. It is
important to note that substituting Si by isoelectronic Ge expands the
unit-cell volume without changing the electronic structure
significantly.[11]

Doping with 6

The consequence of adding a nonmagnetic impurity in a noncentrosymmetric
superconductor is far from being obvious. Theoretical analysis shows
that adding nonmagnetic impurities results,[15] for weak disorder, in
the suppression of T_(c) for _both_ conventional as well as
unconventional Cooper pairing. Moreover, for the conventional Cooper
pairing, nonmagnetic impurities yield a decrease in T_(c);
superconductivity, _however_, will not be destroyed completely. This is
because the origin of the suppression of T_(c) is interband impurity
scattering which tends to reduce the difference between the gap
magnitudes in the two bands. This costs energy and thus suppresses
T_(c). However, once both gaps have become equal, adding further
impurities should be harmless for superconductivity, which is in
striking contrast to our observation that

Figure 4: (Color online) Phase diagram of CePt₃Si_(1 − x)Ge_(x) as
function of the reduced unit-cell volume (V/V₀) with V₀ the unit-cell
volume of CePt₃Si (Ref. [17]). Triangles correspond to T_(c) of
Ge-substituted samples while circles present T_(c) of CePt₃Si. Ambient
pressure data is indicated by filled symbols while data under applied
pressure by open symbols. T_(c) of the Ge-substituted samples at p =0 is
taken from Ref. [11]. The solid line represents a fit to the data
according to the AG function. The dashed and dashed-dotted lines are
suggesting the shape of the SC dome for CePt₃Si and
CePt₃Si_(0.94)Ge_(0.06), respectively, for the case that the SC behavior
would be only governed by volume effects. See text for details.

Figure 3: (Color online) T-p phase diagram of CePt₃Si_(0.94)Ge_(0.06)
(main panel) and CePt₃Si (inset). In case of CePt₃Si, additional data
from Ref. [8] (triangles and diamonds) have been included.

superconductivity is completely suppressed for a doped sample of 10

The solid line in Fig. 4 shows the fit of the AG function to our
experimental results as a function of n_(imp) and assuming
N(0)/t²∼1.6 × 10⁻⁴ eV. The agreement between our experimental data and
the AG theory clearly points toward the unconventional symmetry of the
SC order parameter in CePt₃Si which is destroyed by nonmagnetic
impurities. In addition, we find that the strength of the potential
scattering off the Ge dopants, rather than the Ge-induced expansion of
the average unit-cell volume, more strongly affects T_(c), quite
opposite to the response of T_(N) to these parameters.

On applying pressure the SC state in CePt₃Si_(0.94)Ge_(0.06) is
suppressed already at a small pressure of only 0.2 GPa. The pressure
dependence of T_(c) is much stronger than in the case of CePt₃Si.
Especially, T_(c)(p) does not exhibit an initial increase as one would
expect it in the simple picture which was first suggested by combining
the p=0 results on CePt₃Si_(1 − x)Ge_(x) and the pressure studies on
CePt₃Si in a T-V phase diagram (see also Fig. 4).[11] Our results,
however, suggest that the effect of nonmagnetic impurities on the
superconductivity cannot be neglected.

In conclusion, our results show that the suppression of T_(c) on Ge
substitution in CePt₃Si is basically not due to a volume effect but is
caused by scattering processes on nonmagnetic impurities introduced by
the Ge substitution. We have argued that the peculiar effect of
nonmagnetic impurities in noncentrosymmetric superconductors plays an
important role in destroying superconductivity in CePt₃Si. In addition,
we have shown that the SC state in the Ge-substituted sample is much
more sensitive to pressure than in CePt₃Si.

Support by COST P16 is acknowledged.

## References

* [1] E. Bauer, G. Hilscher, H. Michor, Ch. Paul, E. W. Scheidt, A.
Gribanov, Yu. Seropegin, H. Noel, M. Sigrist, and P. Rogl, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **92**, 027003 (2004). * [2] L. P. Gor’kov and E. I. Rashba, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **87**, 037004 (2001). * [3] K. V. Samokhin, E. S. Zijlstra,
and S. K. Bose, Phys. Rev. B **69**, 094514 (2004). * [4] P. A. Frigeri,
D. F. Agterberg, A. Koga, and M. Sigrist, Phys. Rev. Lett. **92**,
097001 (2004). * [5] A. Amato, E. Bauer, and C. Baines, Phys. Rev. B
**71**, 092501 (2005). * [6] T. Takeuchi, T. Yasuda, M. Tsujino, H.
Shishido, R. Settai, H. Harima, and Y. Onuki, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **76**,
014702 (2007). * [7] T. Yasuda, H. Shishido, T. Ueda, S. Hashimoto, R.
Settai, T. Takeuchi, T. D. Matsuda, Y. Haga, and Y. Onuki, J. Phys. Soc.
Jpn. **73**, 1657 (2004). * [8] M. Nicklas, G. Sparn, R. Lackner, E.
Bauer, and F. Steglich, Physica B **359-361**, 386 (2005). * [9] N.
Tateiwa, Y. Haga, T. D. Matsuda, S. Ikeda, T. Yasuda, T. Takeuchi, R.
Settai, and Y. Onuki, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **74**, 1903 (2005). * [10] Y.
Aoki, A. Sumiyama, G. Motoyama, Y. Oda, T. Yasuda, R. Settai, and Y.
Onuki, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **76**, 114708 (2007). * [11] E. Bauer _et
al._, Physica B **359-361**, 360 (2005). * [12] N. Metoki _et al._, J.
Phys.: Condens. Matter **16**, L207 (2004). * [13] R. Ritz _et al._, J.
Phys.: Conf. Ser. **200**, 012165 (2010). * [14] M. Ohashi _et al._
(unpublished). * [15] V. P. Mineev and K. V. Samokhin, Phys. Rev. B
**75**, 184529 (2007). * [16] A. A. Abrikosov and L. P. Gor’kov, Zh.
Eksp. Teor. Fiz. **39**, 1781 (1960) [Sov. Phys. JETP **12**, 1243
(1961)]. * [17] The unit-cell volume of CePt₃Si_(0.1 − x) at p=0 was
taken from Ref. [11]. Pressure was converted to unit-cell volume using
Murnaghan’s equation of state with B=162 GPa (Ref. [14]).
