Coexistence of ferromagnetism and superconductivity in the hybrid
ruthenate-cuprate compound RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈ studied by muon spin rotation
and dc magnetization

C. Bernhard

Max-Planck-Institut fur Festkorperforschung, Heisenbergstrasse 1,
D-70569 Stuttgart, Germany

J. L. Tallon

Industrial Research Ltd., P. O. Box 31310, Lower Hutt, New Zealand

Ch. Niedermayer and Th. Blasius

Universitat Konstanz, Fakultat fur Physik, D-78434, Konstanz, Germany

A. Golnik,* E. Brucher, and R. K. Kremer

Max-Planck-Institut fur Festkorperforschung, Heisenbergstrasse 1,
D-70569 Stuttgart, Germany

D. R. Noakes and C. E. Stronach

Department of Physics, Virginia State University, Petersburg, Virginia
23806

E. J. Ansaldo^(†)

University of Saskatchewan, Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, Canada S7N 0W0

7 December 1998

###### Abstract

We have investigated the magnetic and the superconducting properties of
the hybrid ruthenate-cuprate compound RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈ by means of
zero-field muon-spin rotation (ZF-μSR) and dc magnetization
measurements. The dc-magnetization data established that this material
exhibits ferromagnetic order of the Ru moments [μ(Ru)∼1 μ_(B)] below
T_(C)=133 K and becomes superconducting at a much lower temperature
T_(c) = 16 K. The ZF-μSR experiments indicate that the ferromagnetic
phase is homogeneous on a microscopic scale and accounts for most of the
sample volume. They also suggest that the magnetic order is not
significantly modified at the onset of superconductivity.
[S0163-1829(99)07321-X]

## I Introduction

Since the discovery of superconductivity in the cuprate system
La_(2 − x)Ba_(x)CuO₄ in 1986,[1] an ever growing variety of high-T_(c)
superconducting cuprate compounds has been synthesized all of which
contain CuO₂ planes (some also contain CuO chains) as their essential
structural elements which host the superconducting charge carriers.[2]
Between the CuO₂ planes are various kinds of layers, typically
NaCl-type, which are insulating and act merely as a charge reservoir. To
date, the ruthenate compound Sr₂RuO₄ is the only known layered
perovskitelike system which becomes superconducting even though it does
not contain any CuO₂ planes or CuO chains.[3] Despite its rather low
transition temperature T_(c) = 1.5 K, the study of its electronic and
magnetic properties has become a very rich and active field of
research.[4] In parallel, the electronic and magnetic properties of the
related ruthenate compounds, such as, for example, the SrRuO₃ system
which is an itinerant 4_d_-band ferromagnet with T_(C)≈ 165 K, have
attracted a great deal of interest.[5]

Another potentially promising and exciting direction of research has
been prompted by the circumstance that the RuO₂ layers share the same
square-planar coordination and a rather similar bond length with their
CuO₂ counterparts. A whole new family of hybrid ruthenate-cuprate
compounds may therefore be constructed whose members consist of
different sequences of alternating RuO₂ and CuO₂ layers. Recently, one
such a hybrid ruthenate-cuprate compound, the 1212-type RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈
system comprising CuO₂ bilayers and RuO₂ monolayers, has been
synthesized as a single-phase material.[6] A subsequent study of its
electronic and magnetic properties has revealed that this material
exhibits electronic ferromagnetic order at a rather high Curie
temperature T_(C)=133−136 K and becomes superconducting at a
significantly lower critical temperature T_(c)=15−40 K (depending on the
condition of preparation and annealing).[6; 7; 8] The most surprising
observation, however, is that the ferromagnetic order does not vanish
when superconductivity sets in at T_(c) . Instead, it appears that the
ferromagnetic state remains largely unchanged and coexists with
superconductivity. This finding implies that the interaction between the
superconducting and the ferromagnetic order parameters is very weak and
it raises the question of whether both order parameters coexist on a
truly microscopic scale. Since the early investigations of Ginzburg in
1957,[9] the prevailing view is that the coexistence of a
superconducting- (with singlet Cooper pairs) and a ferromagnetic order
parameter is not possible on a microscopic scale since the
electromagnetic interaction and the exchange coupling lift the
degeneracy of the spin-up and the spin-down partners of the Cooper pair
and cause strong pair breaking. Indeed, merely based on magnetization
and transport measurements one cannot exclude the possibility that the
RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈ samples may be spatially inhomogeneous with some domains
exhibiting ferromagnetic order and others superconducting order.[6] We
note that unambiguous evidence for the occurrence of bulk
superconductivity in RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈ has recently been obtained from
specific-heat measurements which reveal a sizeable jump at T_(c) of
Δγ=C_(p)/T≈0.35 mJ/g at K², characteristic of a strongly underdoped
cuprate superconductor.[10] In the following we report on muon-spin
rotation (μSR) measurements which establish that the ferromagnetic order
is uniform and homogeneous even on a microscopic scale.

The μSR technique is ideally suited for such a purpose since it provides
an extremely sensitive local magnetic probe and, furthermore, allows one
to reliably obtain the volume fraction of the magnetically ordered
phase.[11] Here we present the result of a zero-field muon-spin rotation
(ZF-μSR) study of a RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈ sample with T_(c)= 16 K and T_(c)= 133
K which provides evidence that the magnetic order parameter is spatially
homogeneous and accounts for most of the sample volume. Furthermore, the
ZF-μSR data establish that the ferromagnetic order is hardly affected by
the onset of superconductivity and persists to the lowest available
temperature of the experiment T= 2.2 K. The ZF-μSR data can be
complemented by dc-magnetization measurements which establish the
presence of ferromagnetic order from the observation of a spontaneous
magnetization at T_(c)=133 K and of hysteretic isothermal magnetic
behavior with a remanent magnetization. It is shown that the
ferromagnetic ordering involves the Ru magnetic moments with
μ(Ru)≈1.05(5)μ_(B), while the larger Gd moments with μ (Gd³⁺)≈
7.4(1)μ_(B) remain paramagnetic down to very low temperatures. In
addition, the magnetization measurements indicate an almost complete
diamagnetic shielding effect below T_(c).

## II Experiment

### Sample preparation and characterization

Polycrystalline samples of the 1212-type system RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈ have been
synthesized as previously described[8] by solid-state reaction of RuO₂,
SrCO₃, Gd₂O₃, and CuO powders. The mixture was first decomposed at 960
^(∘)C in air. It was then ground, milled, and die-pressed into pellets.
The first sintering step took place in flowing nitrogen atmosphere at
1010 ^(∘)C. This step results in the formation of a mixture of the
precursor material Sr₂GdRuO₆ and Cu₂O and is directed towards minimizing
the formation of SrRuO₃.[6] The material was then reground before it was
reacted in flowing oxygen for 10 h at 1050 ^(∘)C. This sintering step
was repeated twice with intermediate grinding and milling. Each reaction
step was carried out on a MgO single-crystal substrate to prevent
reaction with the alumina crucible. Finally the samples were cooled
slowly to room temperature in flowing oxygen. Following this procedure
we have also made a Zn-substituted RuSr₂GdCu_(1.94)Zn_(0.06)O₈ sample
and a Y↔Gd cosubstituted sample RuSr₂Gd_(0.9)Y_(0.1)Cu₂O₈.
X-ray-diffraction (XRD) measurements indicate that all samples are
single phase 1212-type material and give no indication for traces of the
ferromagnetic phase SrRuO₃. Figure 1(b) displays a representative XRD
spectrum of RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈, the plus signs show the raw data and the solid
line shows the result of the Rietveld refinement. The related structure
of RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈ is shown in Fig. 1(a).

The electronic properties of RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈ have been characterized by
measurements of the temperature-dependent resistivity and thermoelectric
power. Representative results

Figure 1: (a) The structure of RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈ with the Cu atoms sited at
the center of the base of the square pyramids and the Ru atoms at the
center of the octahedra. (b) The x-ray-diffraction (XRD) spectrum for a
RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈ sample (Co Kα source). The plus signs (+) are the raw x-ray
data and the solid line is the calculated Rietveld refinement profile
for tetragonal (space group P4/mmm) RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈.

are shown in Figs. 2(a) and 2(b), respectively (see also Ref. [8]). The
temperature dependence of the thermoelectric power S(T) and, in
particular, its normal-state value of S(300 K) ∼75 μV/K is rather
typical for a strongly underdoped cuprate superconductor with T_(c) ≪
T_(c, max ), consistent with a hole content of p ≈ 0.07 holes per CuO₂
planes and a value of T_(c, max ) of the order of 100 K [8, 12]. The
resistivity measurements indicate that the RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈ sample exhibits
zero resistivity at a critical temperature of T_(c) = 16 K. The precise
value of T_(c) varies between 12 and 24 K, depending on synthesis
conditions, and may be raised to 40 K by long-term annealing. The
temperature dependence of the normal-state resistivity is again
characteristic of a strongly underdoped superconducting cuprate
compound. The ferromagnetic transition at T_(C) = 133 K causes only a
small yet noticeable drop in the resistivity indicating that the RuO₂
layer is almost insulating above T_(C) , while being poorly conducting
in the ferromagnetic state [5].

### The technique of muon-spin rotation

The muon-spin rotation (μSR) experiments have been performed at the M15
beamline of TRIUMF in Vancouver, Canada, which provides 100

## III Experimental results

### dc magnetization

Before we discuss the result of the μSR experiments, we first present
some dc-magnetization data which establish that the RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈ sample
exhibits a spontaneous magnetization at a ferromagnetic transition of
T_(C) = 133 K and becomes superconducting at a much lower temperature
T_(c) = 16 K. Figure 3(a) shows the temperature dependence of the volume
susceptibility χ_(V), which has been obtained after zero-field cooling
the sample to T = 2 K, then applying an external field of $H^{\rm ext}$
= 5.5 Oe, and subsequently warming up to T = 200 K. The density of the
sample has been assumed to be ρ = 6.7 g/cm³ corresponding to
stoichiometric RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈ with lattice parameters of a = 3.84 A and

Figure 3: (a) Temperature dependence of the zero-field-cooled dc volume
magnetization χ_(V) of RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈. The arrows show the superconducting
and the ferromagnetic transition at T_(c) = 16 K and T_(C) = 133 K,
respectively. (b) The field-cooled molar magnetization $M_{\rm mol}$ for
applied fields of H = 5.5, 10, 100 Oe.

Figure 2: (a) Temperature dependence of the resistivity ρ of
RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈. (b) The temperature-dependent thermoelectric power S(T).

c=11.57 A.[8] The superconducting transition is evident in Fig. 3(a)
from the onset of a pronounced diamagnetic shift below T_(c)=16 K. The
diamagnetic shift at the lowest available temperature of T=2 K
corresponds to an almost complete diamagnetic shielding of the sample
volume, implying that at least the surface region of the sample is
homogeneously superconducting. In fact, all pieces that have been cut
from the pellet exhibit a similarly large diamagnetic shielding effect
(small differences can be attributed to different demagnetization
factors). Nevertheless, the dc-magnetization measurements cannot give
unambiguous evidence for the presence of bulk superconductivity since an
almost complete diamagnetic shielding may also be caused by a
filamentary structure of superconducting material in a small fraction of
the otherwise nonsuperconducting material. We note however, that
unequivocal evidence for the occurrence of bulk superconductivity in
RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈ has recently been obtained from specific-heat measurements
which reveal a sizeable jump of Δ_y_=C_(p)/T=0.35 mJ/g at K² at T_(c),
comparable to or greater than that seen in other underdoped
cuprates.[10] For comparison in strongly underdoped YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) it
is found that Δ_y_=0.2−0.3 mJ/g at K².[14] We also note that the
specific-heat measurements have been performed on the same samples which
have been studied by μSR- and dc-magnetization measurements. Figure 3(b)
displays the (low) field-cooled molar magnetization M_(m) for applied
fields of $H^{\rm ext}$=5.5, 50, and 100 Oe. The ferromagnetic
transition at T_(c)=133 K is evident from the sudden onset of a
spontaneous magnetization. Evidently, the magnetic order parameter has
at least a sizeable ferromagnetic component and it persists almost
unchanged to the lowest measured temperature T= 2 K. In particular, it
does not appear to weaken as superconductivity sets in at T_(c)=16K.
Additional evidence for the presence of ferromagnetic order is presented
in Fig. 4, which shows that the isothermal magnetization loops at T = 5
and 50 K exhibit hysteretic magnetic behavior with a remanent
magnetization $M_{\rm rem}$=400 Oe at 5 K and 200 Oe at 50 K.

Having established the existence of ferromagnetic order, the question
arises of whether it involves the Ru moments or the Gd moments. In the
following we present high-temperature susceptibility data which indicate
that the ferromagnetic order involves only the Ru moments, whereas the
Gd moments remain in the paramagnetic state below T_(C). Figure 5 shows
the inverse molar susceptibility, 1/χ_(m)∼($M_{m}/H^{\rm ext}$)⁻¹
obtained for different external fields in the range
5.5≤$H^{\rm ext}$≤1000 Oe (solid lines) in the temperature region 200
K<T<400 K. Shown by the plus signs (+) is the best fit to the
experimental data using a two-component Curie-Weiss + Curie function,
χ=C₁/(T∼$0)\(+$C₂/T, with Θ=T_(C)=133 K kept fixed. This function
describes the experimental data rather well and it gives us very
reasonable values for the magnetic moments, with μ₁=1.05(5) μ_(B) for
the moments that order at T_(C) and μ₂=7.4(1) μ_(B) for the moments that
remain paramagnetic below T_(C). The magnetic moment of the paramagnetic
component agrees reasonably well with the expected magnetic moment of
Gd³⁺ which for a free Gd³⁺ ion[15] is μ(Gd³⁺)=7.94μ_(B) and
μ(Gd³⁺)=7.4μ_(B) for the structurally similar GdBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ)
compound.[16] On the other hand, the value of the Ru moments with
μ(Ru)=1.05(5) μ_(B) also appears to be reasonable. For Ru³⁺ the number
of 4d electrons is 3 and the free-ion value of the magnetic moment is 3
μ_(B) for the high-spin state and 1 μ_(B) for the low-spin state. The
experimentally observed value of μ(Ru)=1.05(5) μ_(B) therefore seems to
imply that Ru⁵⁺ is in the low-spin state. Shown in the inset of Fig. 5
is the field-dependent magnetization for the temperatures T= 2, 30, 50,
100, and 300 K. The low-temperature magnetization can be seen to
saturate at a value of $\mu_{\rm sat}$∼8 μ_(B), as may be expected for a
system that contains one Gd moment per formula unit with μ(Gd)=7 μ_(B)
plus one Ru moment with μ(Ru)=1 μ_(B).

The idea that the Gd moments do not participate in the ferromagnetic
transition at T_(c)=133 K is supported by the result of dc-magnetization
measurements on the 10

Figure 4: The isothermal magnetization loops of RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈ at T= 5,
50, and 200 K. The inset shows a magnification of the low-field region.

Figure 5: The temperature-dependent inverse molar susceptibility 1/χ_(m)
for the high-temperature range of 400 K>T>100 K. The plus signs show the
best fit using a two component Curie-Weiss + Curie function. Shown in
the inset is the saturation magnetization in units of effective Bohr
magnetons per unit volume as a function of applied field at temperatures
of T=2, 30, 50, 100, 200 K.

display the zero-field-cooled,- and the field-cooled susceptibilities
(dashed lines) and compare them with the corresponding data on the pure
RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈ sample (solid line). It is evident that the ferromagnetic
transition is not significantly affected by the partial substitution of
nonmagnetic Y³⁺ for magnetic Gd³⁺. Also shown in Figs. 6(a) and 6(b) by
the dotted lines are the results for the Zn-substituted
RuSr₂Cu_(1.94)Zn_(0.06)O₈ sample. The circumstance that the
ferromagnetic order is not affected by the Zn substitution supports our
view that the majority of the Zn impurities has been introduced into the
CuO₂ layers while hardly any of them reside within the RuO₂ layers.
Moreover, we infer from the rapid T_(c) suppression upon Zn substitution
that only the CuO₂ layers host the superconducting charge carrier in
RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈.

### Zero-field muon-spin-rotation (ZF-μSR)

Next we discuss the result of the zero-field (ZF) μSR experiments.
Figures 7(a) and 7(b) show representative ZF-μSR spectra for the
evolution of the normalized time-resolved muon-spin polarization
P(t)/P(0) at temperatures of T = 5 and 48 K. The value of the initial
muon-spin polarization P(0) has been determined by a transverse field
(TF) μSR experiment performed on the same sample at a temperature above
T_(C). In the ferromagnetic state below T_(C)= 133 K we find that the
spectra are well described by the relaxation function:

P(t)/P(t = 0) = A₁exp (−λt)cos (2π⟨ν_(μ)⟩t)
(1)
+A₂exp (−λt),

where ⟨ν_(μ)⟩ is the average muon-spin precession frequency which
corresponds to the average value of the spontaneous internal magnetic
field at the muons sites, ⟨ν_(μ)⟩= γ_(μ)/2π⟨B_(μ)⟩, with γ_(μ) = 835.4
MHz/T being the gyromagnetic ratio. The damping rate of the
nonoscillating (longitudinal) component Λ is proportional to the dynamic
spin-lattice relaxation rate Λ ∼ 1/T₁, whereas the relaxation rate of
the oscillating (transverse) component, λ is dominated by the static
distribution of the local magnetic field, i.e., λ≈ γ_(μ)⟨ΔB_(μ)⟩. Figure
8 shows the temperature dependence of (a) the precession frequency
⟨ν_(μ)⟩(T), (b) the transverse relaxation rate λ(T), and (c) the
longitudinal relaxation rate Λ(T).

Before we discuss the ZF-μSR data in more detail, we first emphasize the
most important implications, which are evident from Figs. 7 and 8.
Firstly, the presence of an oscillating component in the ZF-μSR spectra
for T  < T_(C) = 133 K gives unambiguous evidence for an ordered
magnetic state which is homogeneous on a microscope length scale (of
typically 20 A). Secondly, from the amplitude of the oscillating
component (A₁ ≈ 2/3) we can deduce that the magnetically ordered state
accounts for more or less the entire volume of the sample. And thirdly,
from the temperature dependence of the μSR signal it becomes clear that
the magnetic order persists almost unchanged in the superconducting
state.

#### iii.2.1 The volume fraction of the magnetic phase

In the following we outline how the volume fraction of the magnetically
ordered phase is obtained from the amplitude of the oscillating
component of the ZF-μSR spectra. For a polycrystalline sample with
randomly orientated grains in zero external field the local magnetic
field, on average, is parallel (perpendicular) to the direction of the
muon-spin direction with probability 1/3 (2/3). For a homogeneous
magnetically ordered sample, one therefore expects that 2/3 of the
amplitude of the ZF-μSR signal (the transverse compo

Figure 6: (a) The temperature-dependent volume susceptibility χ_(V) of
RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈ (solid line), for Zn-substituted
RuSr₂GdCu_(1.94)Zn_(0.06)O₈ (dotted line) and for Y→Gd cosubstituted
RuSr₂Gd₉Y_(0.1)Cu₂O₈ (dashed line). (b) The temperature-dependent molar
magnetization M_(m), shown by the same symbols as in (a).

Figure 7: The time-resolved normalized muon-spin polarization,
P(t)/P(t = 0), at temperatures of (a) T = 5.3 K< T_(c) and (b)
T_(c) < T = 48 K< T_(C) = 133 K. The large oscillatory component gives
clear evidence for the presence of a magnetically ordered state.

nent) exhibit an oscillatory behavior, while 1/3 of the signal (the
longitudinal component) is nonoscillating and is only slowly damped due
to spin-flip excitations. On the other hand, for a sample with
inhomogeneous magnetic order, for example containing nonmagnetic
regions, the amplitude of the oscillating signal will be accordingly
reduced and a second nonoscillating transverse component will appear. If
the nonmagnetic regions are microscopically small, this nonoscillating
component is likely to have a rather large damping rate of the order of
λ ∼ γ_(μ)(B_(μ)) due to stray fields which are imposed by the
neighboring magnetic domains. From Figs. 7(a) and 7(b) it can be seen
that the ZF-μSR data on RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈ give no indication for such an
inhomogeneous magnetic state. As was mentioned above, the amplitude of
the initial muon-spin polarization P(t = 0) has been determined from a
transverse-field (TF)-μSR measurement. From the size of the amplitude of
the oscillatory component we deduce that more than 80

#### 2. Local magnetic field at the muon site

It is evident from Fig. 8(a) that the muon-spin precession frequency
(the local field at the muon site) does not exhibit any strong anomaly
at the superconducting transition temperature T_(c) . Instead, as shown
by the dashed line, the temperature dependence of the muon-spin
precession frequency ⟨ν_(μ)⟩(T) (and thus of the magnetic order
parameter) is well described by the function
ν_(μ)(T) = ν₀(1 − T/T_(C))^(β), with ν₀ = 9.7(1) MHz [corresponding to
⟨B_(μ)⟩(T → 0) ≈ 720(10) G], T_(c) = 133(1) K, and β = 0.333(5). This
functional form is strictly valid only in the critical regime close to
T_(C) but it can be seen to provide a reasonable description of the
magnetic order parameter over a fairly wide temperature range of
T_(C)≅ T ≅ 5 K. The anomaly at very low temperature arises most likely
from the magnetic ordering transition of the Gd moments at T_(N) ≈ 2.6
K. Note that for the structurally related compound GdBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ)
(Gd-123) the antiferromagnetic ordering transition of the Gd moment
occurs at a very similar temperature of T_(N) = 2.3 K.[16, 17] The value
of the critical exponent β = 0.333 is close to the theoretical value
0.345 in the 3D _XY_ model.[18] We cannot determine with certainty the
number of components in the spin system with these data and, in
particular, distinguish between the two-component _XY_ (β = 0.345) and
the three-component Heisenberg (β =0.365) models. The contribution of
ferromagnetic fluctuations above T_(C) to the susceptibility provides
better discrimination as will be discussed later.

The oscillating transverse component exhibits a damping rate of the
order of λ ≈ 10-15μs⁻¹corresponding to a spread in the local magnetic
field of ⟨ΔB_(μ)⟩/⟨B_(μ)⟩ ≈ 0.2. This 20

#### Longitudinal relaxation rate, Λ∼ 1/T₁

The temperature dependence of the relaxation rate of the nonoscillating
component of the ZF-μSR signal, Λ(T)∼ 1/T, is shown in Fig. 8(c). As a
function of decreasing temperature Λ(T) can be seen to exhibit a
cusplike feature at the ferromagnetic transition of the Ru moments at
T_(C)= 133 K and a steplike increase at very low temperature which most
likely is related to the ordering of the Gd moments. The cusp feature at
T_(C)= 133 K characterizes the slowing down of the spin dynamics of the
Ru moments as the ferromagnetic transition is approached. The cusp
maximum occurs when the spin-fluctuation rate τ_(c) equals the typical
μSR time scale for τ_(c)∼ 10⁻⁶.[11] Note, that in the ferromagnetically
ordered state that longitudinal relaxation rate remains unusually large
with values of Λ(T≪T_(C))≈ 0.3−0.4 μs⁻¹ that are at least an order of
magnitude larger than expected for a classical ferromagnet[22] (where
two-magnon excitations provide the major contribution to spin dynamics).
We have confirmed by a μSR measurements in a longitudinal field of
$H^{\rm LF}$= 6 kOe that this large relaxation rate is indeed
characteristic for the longitudinal component of the μSR signal. At
present we cannot provide a definite explanation of the origin of the
unusually large value of Λ. However, we emphasize that the RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈
system can be expected to exhibit a rather complex magnetic behavior
since, besides the ferromagnetically ordered Ru moments, it also
contains the larger Gd moments with $\mu({\rm Gd}^{3+})$≈ 7.4μ_(B) which
remain paramagnetic below T_(C). The magnetic ordering transition of the
Gd moments at T≈ 2.6 K is evident in the ZF-μSR data in Figs. 8(a)−8(c)
from the sudden increase in the local magnetic field (or the μSR
precession frequency, ⟨ ν_(μ)⟩) and a corresponding increase in both
relaxation rates, λ and Λ. In addition, we note that recently it has
been shown by μSR measurements that in strongly underdoped
high-T_(c)cuprate superconductors (like the present RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈
compound) also the Cu moments exhibit a spin-glass-type freezing
transition at low temperature.[23] Finally, it appears that the
longitudinal relaxation rate Λ exhibits an additional weak anomaly at a
temperature of T≈ 20 K, i.e., in the vicinity of the superconducting
transition at T_(c)= 16 K. At present we are not sure whether this
effect is related to the onset of superconductivity. From Fig. 8(b) it
appears that the transverse relaxation rate also exhibits a steplike
increase in the same temperature range. The local magnetic field at the
muon site, however, [see Fig. 8(a)] does not seem to exhibit any anomaly
in the vicinity of T_(c). We expect that further μSR measurements on
rare-earth substituted RuSr₂Gd_(1 − δ)R_(x)Cu₂O₈ samples, as well as on
less strongly underdoped samples with higher critical temperatures of
T_(c) up to 40 K, should shed more light on the complex magnetic
behavior and its interplay with superconductivity in the Ru-1212 system.

### Dipolar field calculation

While the ZF-μSR data give clear evidence for the presence of a
homogeneous magnetically ordered state, they do not provide any direct
information about the origin of the magnetic moments, the type of the
magnetic order, and its direction. Based on dipolar-field calculations
of the local magnetic field at the muon site, however, one can test the
consistency with an assumed magnetic structure. The result of these
calculations depends on the location of the interstitial muon site and
also on the orientation of the Ru moments. Unfortunately, for the
Ru-1212 system neither of these is accurately known at present.
Nevertheless, it seems plausible that the muon site is similar to that
in YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) (and other related cuprate compounds) where the
positive muon forms a hydroxyl bond with the apex oxygen and is located
at the so-called ’apical site’ near the point (0.12a,0.225b,0.14c).[13]
Indeed, as is summarized in Table 1, we obtain rather good agreement
with the experimental value of ⟨ B_(μ)⟩(T→ 0 ) = 720 G if we take a
similar apical site near the point (0.13a, 0.22b, 0.16−0.17c) and assume
that the ferromagnetically ordered Ru moments [μ(Ru)= 1 μ_(B)]are
oriented along the RuO₂ plane either along the Ru-O bond, [100], or
along the diagonal [110] (see Table 1). For the [110] orientation,
however, there exist two magnetically inequivalent muon sites which
should give rise to two distinctive precession frequencies in the μSR
spectra (which are not observed experimentally). For the Ru moments
oriented perpendicular to the RuO₂ layer along [001] the resulting local
magnetic field at the apex site is significantly larger than the
experimental value. In order to obtain reasonable agreement with
experiment for the [001] orientation, one has to assume that the muon
site is located much closer to the CuO₂ planes. Such a muon site,
however, is not very realistic (simply speaking the positive muon is
repelled by the positively charged CuO₂ planes) and has not been
observed in any of the related cuprate compounds. We thus tentatively
conclude that the moments align in-plane consistent with the
two-component XY scenario. While this result is rather convenient in
terms of the coexistence of the ferromagnetic order of the Ru moments
and the superconductivity which resides within the CuO₂ layers as
discussed below, one has to keep in mind that the underlying assumptions
are rather crude. For more detailed and decisive information on the
structure and

  Muon site              [100]     [110]      [001]
  --------------------- ------- ------------ --------
  (0.13,0.225,0.16)      960 G   1068/805 G   1471 G
  (0.128,0.222,0.175)    740 G   824/665 G    1231 G

Table 1: The local magnetic field at the muon site ⟨ B_(μ)⟩, obtained
from the dipolar-field calculation. The results are shown for two
different muon sites and for three different orientations with the Ru
moments [μ(Ru⁵⁺) = 1 μ_(B)] ferromagnetically ordered along the Ru-O
bond [100], along the diagonal [110], or perpendicular to the RuO₂
planes [001]. Note that for the [110] orientation there exist two
magnetically inequivalent muon sites.

the orientation of the Ru spin order we must await the result of
neutron-scattering experiments.

## IV A possible scenario for coexistence of ferromagnetic and
superconducting order

Having established that the ferromagnetic and the superconducting order
parameter coexist on a microscopic scale, we arrive at the important
question as to how this system manages to avoid strong pair-breaking
effects. We suspect that the answer is closely related to the layered
structure of the hybrid ruthenate-cuprate compound and, in particular,
to the purely two-dimensional coherent charge transport in the strongly
underdoped CuO₂ planes. We envisage a scenario where the
ferromagnetically ordered Ru spins are aligned in the RuO₂ plane having
a very large out-of-plane anisotropy while the charge dynamics of the
superconducting CuO₂ planes is purely two-dimensional, i.e., coherent
charge transport occurs only along the direction of the CuO₂ planes. For
such a configuration the principal pair-breaking effect due to the
electromagnetic interaction can be minimized, since the dot product of
the magnetic vector potential (which then is normal to the planes) and
the momentum of the Cooper pair (which is parallel to the planes)
vanishes. An additional requirement is that the direct hyperfine
interaction between the superconducting electrons of the CuO₂ planes and
the ordered Ru spins has to be extremely small. Both requirements may be
fulfilled in the present Ru-1212 system due to the confinement of the
superconducting electrons of the strongly underdoped CuO₂ planes. The
absence of magnetic pair breaking is suggested by the fact that the
T_(c)value is fully consistent with the underdoped state indicated by
the thermoelectric power.[12] So far we have been unable to
significantly increase the doping state (by, e.g., Ca substitution) so
as to explore these implications. Furthermore, we have not yet succeeded
in crystallographically aligning powders or growing single crystals
which would allow one to investigate the magnetic anisotropy. However,
further information can be obtained by examining the ferromagnetic
fluctuations above T_(C) as seen in the divergence of the
susceptibility. Figure 9 shows d_(χ)/dT plotted versus (T/T_(C)− 1) for
the zero-field-cooled susceptibility for T>T_(C). The slope of −2.30(3)
indicates a critical exponent of γ=1.30(3) consistent with 3D XY
fluctuations for which γ=1.32 (Ref. [18]) and again consistent with
orientation of the Ru moments within the a-b plane.

Finally, we note that an alternative (and highly speculative)
explanation for the coexistence of high-T_(c) superconductivity and
ferromagnetic order in the present Ru 1212 superconductor could be that
the superconducting order parameter has a nonzero angular momentum which
itself breaks time-reversal symmetry. Such an unconventional order
parameter symmetry has been discussed also in the context of the Sr₂RuO₄
superconductor. We point out, however, that at present we have no
evidence in favor of such a scenario.

## V Conclusions

In summary, we have performed dc-magnetization and zero-field muon-spin
rotation (ZF-μSR) measurements which characterize the superconducting
and the magnetic properties of the hybrid cuprate-ruthenate compound
RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈. The dc-magnetization data establish that this material
exhibits ferromagnetic order (or at least magnetic order with a sizeable
ferromagnetic component) below T_(C) = 133 K and becomes superconducting
at a much lower temperature of T_(c) = 16 K. We obtain evidence that
superconducting charge carriers originate from the CuO₂ planes, while
the ferromagnetic order is associated with the Ru moments with μ(Ru)≈ 1
μ_(B) . The larger Gd moments with μ(Gd)≈7.4μ_(B) do not appear to
participate in the ferromagnetic transition but remain paramagnetic to
very low temperature and undergo most likely an antiferromagnetic
transition at T_(N) = 2.6 K. The ZF-μSR experiments provide evidence
that the ferromagnetic phase is homogeneous on a microscope scale and
accounts for most of the sample volume. Furthermore, they indicate that
the magnetically ordered state is not significantly modified by the
onset of superconductivity. This rather surprising result raises the
question as to how ferromagnetic and superconducting order can coexist
on a microscopic scale while avoiding strong pair-breaking effects that
tend to destroy superconductivity. We have outlined a possible scenario
which relies on the two-dimensional charge dynamics of the CuO₂ planes
and the assumption that the ferromagnetic order parameter of the Ru
moments is confined to the RuO₂ layers.

## Acknowledgments

We would like to acknowledge S. Kreitzman and B. Hitti for the technical
support during the μSR experiments at TRIUMF. J.L.T. thanks the Royal
Society of New Zealand for financial support. Ch.N. and Th.B. thank the
German BMBF for financial support. C.E.S. and D.R.N. were supported by
U.S. Air Force Office of Scientific Research Grant No. F49620-97-1-0297.

Figure 9: d_(χ)/dT plotted versus (T/T_(C)−1) for the zero-field-cooled
susceptibility in the temperature range of T>T_(C). The slope of
−2.30(3) indicates a critical exponent of γ=1.30(3) consistent with 3D
XY fluctuations for which γ=1.32 (Ref. [18]) and consistent with
orientation of the Ru moments within the a-b plane.

* [1] Permanent address: Institute of Experimental Physics, Warsaw
University, Hoza 69, 00-681 Warsaw, Poland. * [2] Present address: 1318
Tenth St., Sakatoon, Saskatchewan, Canada S7H OJ3. * [3] J. G. Bednorz
and K. A. Muller, Z. Phys. B **64**, 189 (1986). * [4] R. J. Cava,
Science **247**, 656 (1990). * [5] Y. Maeno, H. Hashimoto, K. Yoshida,
S. Nishizaki, T. Fujita, J. G. Bednorz, and F. Lichtenberg, Nature
(London) **372**, 532 (1994). * [6] See, for example, Y. Maeno, S.
Nishizaki, K. Yoshida, S. Ikeda, and T. Fujita, J. Low Temp. Phys.
**105**, 1577 (1996). * [7] See, for example, L. Klein, J. S. Dodge, C.
H. Ahn, J. W. Reiner, L. Mieville, T. H. Geballe, M. R. Beasley, and A.
Kapitulnik, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter **8**, 10 111 (1996); G. Cao, S.
McCall, M. Shepard, J. E. Crow, and R. P. Guertin, Phys. Rev. B **56**,
321 (1997); I. I. Mazin and D. J. Singh, Phys. Rev. B **56**, 2556
(1997). * [8] L. Bauernfeind, W. Widder, and H. F. Braun, Physica C
**254**, 151 (1995); L. Bauernfeind, W. Widder, and H. F. Braun, J. Low
Temp. Phys. **105**, 1605 (1996); L. Bauernfeind, W. Widder, and H. F.
Braun, in _Proceedings of the Fourth Euro Ceramics_, edited by A.
Barone, D. Florani, and A. Tampieri (Gruppo Editorale Fenaza Editrice,
Italy, 1995), Vol. 6, p. 329. * [9] I. Felner, U. Asaf, Y. Levi, and O.
Millo, Phys. Rev. B **55**, R3374 (1997). * [10] J. L. Tallon, C.
Bernhard, M. E. Bowden, T. M. Stoto, B. Walker, P. W. Gilbert, G. V. M.
Williams, D. M. Pooke, and M. R. Presland (unpublished). * [11] V. L.
Ginsburg, Sov. Phys. JETP **4**, 153 (1957). * [12] J. L. Tallon, J. W.
Loram, G. V. M. Williams, and C. Bernhard (unpublished). * [13] See, for
example, A. Schenck, _Muon Spin Rotation: Principles and Applications in
Solid State Physics_ (Adam Hilger, Bristol, 1986). * [14] S. D.
Obertelli, J. R. Cooper, and J. L. Tallon, Phys. Rev. B **46**, 14 928
(1992). * [15] M. Weber, P. Birrer, F. N. Gygax, B. Hitti, E. Lippelt,
H. Maletta, and A. Schenck, Hyperfine Interact. **63**, 207 (1990); N.
Nishida and H. Miyatake _ibid._**63**, 183 (1990). * [16] J. W. Loram,
K. A. Mirza, J. R. Cooper, and W. Y. Liang, Phys. Rev. Lett. **71**,
1740 (1993). * [17] N. W. Ashcroft and N. D. Mermin, _Solid State
Physics_ (Holt, Rinehart, and Winston, Philadelphia, 1976). * [18] J. O.
Willis, Z. Fisk, J. D. Thompson, S.-W. Cheong, R. A. Aiken, J. L. Smith,
and E. Zirngiebl, J. Magn. Magn. Mater. **67**, L139 (1987); D. McK.
Paul, H. A. Mook, A. W. Hewat, B. C. Sales, L. A. Boatner, R. J.
Thompson, and M. Mostoller, Phys. Rev. B **37**, 2341 (1988). * [19]
See, for example, A. Golnik, Ch. Niedermayer, E. Recknagel, M.
Rossmanith, A. Weidinger, J. I. Budnick, B. Chamberland, M. Filipkowsky,
Y. Zhang, D. P. Yang, L. L. Lynds, F. A. Otter, and C. Baines, Phys.
Lett. A **125**, 71 (1987); Ch. Niedermayer, H. Gluckler, A. Golnik, U.
Binninger, M. Rauer, E. Recknagel, J. I. Budnick, and A. Weidinger,
Phys. Rev. B **47**, 3427 (1993). * [20] J. C. Le Guillou and J.
Zinn-Justin, Phys. Rev. B **21**, 3976 (1980). * [21] W. A. Fertig, D.
C. Johnston, L. E. DeLong, R. W. McCallum, M. B. Maple, and B. T.
Mattias, Phys. Rev. Lett. **38**, 987 (1977); D. E. Moncton, D. B.
McWhan, P. H. Schmidt, G. Shirane, W. Thomlinson, M. B. Maple, H. B.
MacKay, L. D. Woolf, Z. Fisk, and D. C. Johnston, _ibid._**45**, 2060
(1980). * [22] M. Ishikawa and O. Fischer, Solid State Commun. **23**,
37 (1977); P. Burlet, J. Flouquet, J. L. Genicon, R. Horyn, O. Pena, and
M. Sergent, Physica C **215**, 127 (1995); J. W. Lynn, G. Shirane, W.
Thomlinson, R. N. Shelton, and D. E. Moncton, Phys. Rev. B **24**, 3817
(1981). * [23] B. V. Sarkissian, J. Appl. Phys. **53**, 8070 (1982); E.
J. Ansaldo, D. R. Noakes, J. H. Brewer, R. Keitel, D. R. Harshman, M.
Semba, C. Y. Huang, and B. V. B. Sarkissian, Solid State Commun. **55**,
193 (1985). * [24] See, for example, A. Yaouanc and P. Dalmas de
Reotier, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter **3**, 6195 (1991); P. C. M. Gubbens
_et al._, Hyperfine Interact. **85**, 239 (1994). * [25] See, for
example, Ch. Niedermayer, C. Bernhard, T. Blasius, A. Golnik, A.
Moodenbaugh, and J. I. Budnick, Phys. Rev. Lett. **80**, 3843 (1998).
