Superconductivity at 2.2 K in the layered oxypnictide La₃Ni₄P₄O₂

T. Klimczuk,^(1, 2) T. M. McQueen,³ A. J. Williams,³ Q. Huang,⁴ F.
Ronning,¹ E. D. Bauer,¹ J. D. Thompson,¹ M. A. Green,^(4, 5) and R. J.
Cava³

¹Los Alamos National Laboratory, Los Alamos, New Mexico 87545, USA

²Faculty of Applied Physics and Mathematics, Gdansk University of
Technology, Naratuwotwoza 11/12, 80-952 Gdansk, Poland

³Department of Chemistry, Princeton University, Princeton New Jersey
08544, USA

⁴NIST Center for Neutron Research, National Institute of Standards and
Technology, Gaithersburg Maryland 20899, USA

⁵Department of Materials Science and Engineering, University of
Maryland, College Park, Maryland 20742-2115, USA

###### Abstract

We report the observation of superconductivity in La₃Ni₄P₄O₂ at 2.2 K.
The layer stacking in this compound results in an asymmetric
distribution of charge reservoir layers around the Ni₂P₂ planes. The
estimated Wilson ratio, _R${}_{\rm W}$=_ 5, indicates the presence of
strongly enhanced normal-state susceptibility, but many of the basic
superconducting characteristics are conventional. The estimated
electronic contribution to the specific heat, _g≈_ 6.2 mJ mol-Ni⁻¹ K⁻²,
is about 2/3 of that found in layered nickel borocarbide
superconductors.

doi:10.1103/PhysRevB.79.012505 pacs: 74.70.Dd, 74.62.Bf + Footnote †:
preprint: PHYSICAL REVIEW B **79**, 012505 (2009)

Like the high-_T_(c)_ copper oxides,¹ the oxypnictide
superconductors² ⁻ ⁴ are based on square metal layers. Several
structural classes of these superconductors (with _X-M₂-X_ layers, where
M =Fe or Ni, and X =P, As, or Se), are currently known. The simplest is
based on _b_-FeSe,⁵ which consists of Se-Fe₂-Se layers only, and can be
considered as the parent compound of the family. A related compound,
Li_(x)FeAs, also superconducts.^(6, 7) Others, typified by BaNi₂P₂ (Ref.
[8]) and K-doped BaFe₂As₂,⁹ are derived from the _b_-FeSe-like parent by
inserting layers of alkali earth ions between _X-M₂-X_ layers.
Superconducting LaFeAsO and LaNiPO (Refs. [2] and [3]) are derived
instead by inserting whole La-O₂-La layers between the _X-M₂-X_ layers.
Here we show that La₃Ni₄P₄O₂, a compound that has a mixed-layer
structure between LaNi₂P₂ and LaNiPO, is superconducting with a _T_(c)_
of 2.2 K. The stacking of inequivalent charge reservoir layers in
LaNi₄P₄O₂ leads to an asymmetric distribution of ionic layers around the
Ni₂P₂ planes, a structure-derived electronic feature that is not
observed in any other known member of the superconducting oxypnictides.

Polycrystalline La₃Ni₄P₄O₂ samples were prepared from Ni₃P₄, elemental
P, and dry La₂O₃.¹⁰ Physical property characterization was performed on
a Quantum Design physical property measurement system (PPMS).
Neutron-diffraction data were collected at the NIST Center for Neutron
Research on the BT-1 powder neutron diffractometer.¹¹ The crystal
structure was determined by a Rietveld fit^(12, 13) to powder
neutron-diffraction data. The diffracted peak positions and intensities
were well fit by a tetragonal Pr₃Cu₄P₄O₂-type crystal structure.¹⁴ The
fractional occupancies of each crystallographic site were independently
refined and, within two standard deviations, were all found to be equal
to one. Therefore the structure can be considered stoichiometric, and
for the final refinement, all site occupancies were fixed at unity. The
refined structural parameters are summarized in Table 1. Small
quantities of two impurity phases are present in the best preparations;
10.0(2)

The crystal structure of La₃Ni₄P₄O₂ is made from covalently bonded
P-Ni₂-P layers, the common structural motif seen throughout the
superconducting oxypnictide family. The _M-X_ bond lengths and _M-X-M_
bond angles within these covalent layers are under discussion as
important chemical influences on the electronic properties in this
family of compounds (see, e.g., Ref. [15]), as is _X-X_ bonding.¹⁶ These
layers are separated in the new compound by an alternating pattern of
layers of La and La-O₂-La. Figure 1 shows the crystal structure, which
is an ordered structural mixture of LaNiPO (Ref. [3]) and LaNi₂P₂,¹⁷ and
its relationship to those phases and the parent _b_-FeSe structure type.
These compounds form a homologous series with the formula
(La₂O₂)_(m)[La₂Ba_(∥)[Ni₂P₂)_(n + m), and, including La₃Ni₄P₄O₂, the
_m,n_ pairs (1,0), (0,1), and (1,1) are known to support
superconductivity. In Fig. 1, the La³⁺ and O⁻² ions are drawn using
ionic radii and the M and X atoms are drawn using covalent radii. This
rendering reflects a chemically interesting aspect of the oxypnictide
superconductors–the intimate intergrowth of highly ionic layers such as
La³⁺ and (La₂O₂)²⁺ with highly covalent _X-M₂-X_ layers such as Ni₂P₂ or
Fe₂As₂. These ionic layers are the "charge reservoirs;" completely
analogous to those in the layered high-_T_(c)_ copper

             La₃Ni₄P₄O₂T=298 K                   
  --------- ------------------- ---------------- ------------
  Atom       _U${}_{\rm iso}$_      Position          z
  **La1**         0.88(5)          2a (0,0,0)    
  **La2**         0.88(5)          4e (0,0,z)     0.7013(1)
  **Ni**          1.15(4)         8g (0,1/2,z)    0.09278(7)
  **P1**          0.84(7)          4e (0,0,z)     0.1335(2)
  **P2**          0.84(7)          4e (0,0,z)     0.5493(2)
  **O**           1.2(1)         4d (0,1/2,1/4)  

Table 1: Refined structural parameters for La₃Ni₄P₄O₂ at 298 K. Space
group _I₄/mmm_ (139), a =4.0107(1) Å, c =26.1811(9) Å. Calculated
density 6.36 g m⁻³. _U${}_{\rm iso}$=thermal vibration parameters in
10⁻² Å². Figures of merit: goodness of fit (_x²_) =1.073, weighted
profile residual (_R${}_{\rm sp}$_)=4.87

oxides. What is unique about La₃Ni₄P₄O₂ among the oxypnictide
superconductors is that the distribution of charge reservoir layers
around the Ni₂P₂ plane is highly asymmetric; i.e., the sequence of
layers is [La³⁺]-[P-Ni₂-P]-[La-O₂-La]²⁺. Thus, the Ni₂P₂ layer is
sandwiched between two different ionic layers–an arrangement that should
lead to the presence of a local electric-dipole field across the
superconducting plane.

Figure 2 shows the superconducting transition for La₃Ni₄P₄O₂
characterized by magnetic susceptibility ($H_{\rm DC}$ =10 Oe). The
critical temperature (T_(c)) is about 2.2 K. The minor diamagnetism
visible in the temperature range 2.5 K to 4 K is associated with the
presence of the 10

The inset of Fig. 2 shows the temperature dependence of the estimated
normal-state magnetic susceptibility. Low-field (H=1 kOe) measurements
indicated the presence of small amounts of ferromagnetic impurity with a
low coercive field, likely elemental nickel, in the best samples. This
makes the usual low-field measurement of susceptibility invalid due to
the relatively high contribution of the ferromagnetic impurity to the
measured magnetization at low fields. Therefore, to approximate the
intrinsic susceptibility of La₃Ni₄P₄O₂, the difference in magnetization
ΔM between applied fields of 50 and 40 kOe, well above the coercive
field of the ferromagnetic impurity, was employed to estimate the
susceptibility χ=ΔM/ΔH. Above 250 K La₃Ni₄P₄O₂ exhibits
temperature-independent Pauli paramagnetism with χ₀ = 1.8 × 10⁻⁴ emu
mol⁻¹. Below 250 K, χ(T) increases with decreasing temperature and
reaches maximum at about 14 K. This may reflect the existence of a
magnetic transition in this phase, but the presence of LaNiPO and
LaNi₃P₃ impurities

Figure 2: (Color online) Superconducting transition measured in
zero-field-cooled (closed circles) and field-cooled mode (open circles)
under applied magnetic field 10 Oe. Inset of the figure represents
magnetic susceptibility (ΔM/ΔH) in the wide temperature range. χ=ΔM/ΔH
was calculated as the difference in magnetization ΔM between applied
fields of 50 and 40 kOe (see text).

Figure 1: (Color online) La₃Ni₄P₄O₂ is a member of a series of compounds
built by inserting charged ions or layers between M₂X₂ sheets of the
parent β-FeSe structure. All the oxypnictide superconductors are members
of this family. The La³⁺ and O⁻² ions are drawn with ionic radii and the
M and X atoms are drawn with covalent radii.

precludes more detailed analysis at this time.

Specific-heat (C_(p)) measurements performed at 0 and 90 kOe magnetic
fields are shown in Fig. 4. The data in zero field (closed circles) show
an anomaly at T_(c)=2.3 K, close to the T_(c) determined by
susceptibility measurement. (There is also a small anomaly near 4 K due
to the LaNiPO impurity.) The normal-state specific heat measured at
μ₀H=9 T, shown by open circles, was fitted to C_(p)= γT+ βT³+ A/T⁵,
where the first, second, and third terms represent electronic, lattice,
and nuclear Schottky contributions, respectively. The fit to these data
allows us to estimate γ =6.2 mJ mol-Ni⁻¹ K⁻², β=0.14 mJ mol-Ni⁻¹ K⁻⁴,
and A =0.49 mJ mol-Ni⁻¹ K. The value of γ is smaller than those found in
the layered nickel borocarbide superconductors, e.g., LuNi₂B₂C (8.9 mJ
mol-Ni⁻¹ K⁻²),[19] which also have significantly higher T_(c)s (16.5 K
for LuNi₂B₂C). Given both γ and χ₀, the Wilson ratio can be estimated
for La₃Ni₄P₄O₂, yielding
R_(W)=$\frac{(\pi\mu_{0})^{2}\chi_{0}}{\lambda_{\mu_{0}^{2}\Delta\chi_{0}}}$≈
5 [$\mu_{\rm eff}$=2.76× 10⁻²¹ erg/Oe was calculated from the χ(T) fit
of 50-350 K to Curie-Weiss law]. This is significantly higher than the
free-electron value (R_(W) =1) and indicates a spin-enhanced
susceptibility. The normalized specific-heat jump at T_(c) can also be
calculated from γ. The experimental value for La₃Ni₄P₄O₂,
$\Delta C_{\rm el}$/ γT_(c)=1.25, is lower than the BCS prediction[20]
of 1.43, likely due to the influence of the impurity phases on the
measured γ. The simple Debye model connects the β coefficient and Debye
temperature (Θ_(D)) through Θ_(D)=$(\frac{12\mu^{4}}{S_{B}}nR)^{1/3}$≈
360 K, where R= 8.314 J mol⁻¹ K⁻¹, β_(n)=4β=0.56 mJ mol K⁻⁴, and n =13
for La₃Ni₄P₄O₂. With this value for Θ_(D), we can estimate the
electron-phonon coupling constant ($\lambda_{\rm ep}$) from McMillian’s
relation:[21]$\lambda_{\rm ep}$=$\frac{1.04\mu_{\rm eff}

  the related Ni-based superconductors YNi\({}_{2}$B₂C (65 A) (Ref.
[23]) and MgCNi₃ (47 A).[24] The present analysis does not reveal any
overtly unconventional behavior in La₃Ni₄P₄O₂ beyond the presence of a
spin-enhanced susceptibility. While there is widespread belief that
there is a relationship between superconductivity and magnetism in the
Fe-based oxypnictides, early band-structure calculations on LaNiPO (Ref.
[25]) have been interpreted as indicating that the nickel oxypnictides
are conventional superconductors. The issue of conventional vs
unconventional superconductivity in the Ni-based superconductors–the
layered borocarbides and MgCNi₃–continues to be an open one, however.
Arguments both for and against conventional superconductivity in this
family, based on detailed experiments, continue to be presented.[19, 25,
26, 27, 28] Thus, future detailed characterization of the nickel-based
oxypnictide superconductors BaNi₂P₂, La₃Ni₄P₄O₂, and LaNiPO will be of
interest. The crystal structure of La₃Ni₄P₄O₂ is unique among the
superconducting oxypnictides due to the asymmetric distribution of
charge reservoir layers around the Ni₂P₂ plane. For the one copper oxide
superconductor in which a similar structural asymmetry is known,
Y₂Ba₄Cu₃O₁₅, unexpected behavior has been predicted.[29] Whether this
asymmetry may be the reason why the T_(c) in La₃Ni₄P₄O₂ is approximately
half that of BaNi₂P₂ and LaNiPO is an issue that will require further
study. The growth of single crystals will be required to provide more
precise characterization of the normal state and superconducting
properties.

###### Acknowledgements.

This research at Los Alamos National Laboratory and Princeton University
(Grant No. DE-FG02-98ER45706) was supported by the U.S. Department of
Energy, Division of basic Energy Sciences. T.M.M. acknowledges support
by the National Science Foundation.

## References

* [1] J. G. Bednorz and K. A. Z. Muller, Z. Phys. B: Condens. Matter
**64**, 189 (1986). * [2] Y. Kamihara, H. Hiramatsu, M. Hirano, R.
Kawamura, H. Yanagi, T. Kamiya, and H. Hosono, J. Am. Chem. Soc.
**128**, 10012 (2006). * [3] T. Watanabe, H. Yanagi, T. Kamiya, Y.
Kamihara, H. Hiramatsu, M. Hirano, and H. Hosono, Inorg. Chem. **46**,
7719 (2007). * [4] Y. Kamihara, Y. Kamihara, T. Watanabe, M. Hirano, and
H. Hosono, J. Am. Chem. Soc. **130**, 3296 (2008). * [5] F. C. Hsu, J.
Y. Luo, K. W. Yeh, T. K. Chen, T. W. Huang, P. M. Wu, Y. C. Lee, Y. L.
Huang, Y. Y. Chu, D. C. Yan, and M. K. Wu, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A.
**105**, 14262 (2008). * [6] X. C. Wang, Q. Q. Liu, Y. X. Lv, W. B. Gao,
L. X. Yang, R. C. Yu, F. Y. Li, and C. Q. Jin, Solid State Commun.
**148**, 538 (2008). * [7] M. J. Pitcher, D. R. Parker, P. Adamson, S.
J. C. Herkelrath, A. T. Boothroyd, R. M. Ibberson, M. Brunelli, and S.
J. Clarke, Chem. Commun. (Cambridge) (2008) 5918. * [8] T. Mine, H.
Yanagi, T. Kamiya, Y. Kamihara, M. Hirano, and H. Hosono, Solid State
Commun. **147**, 111 (2008). * [9] M. Rotter, M. Tegel, and D. Johrendt,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **101**, 107006 (2008). * [10] Ni₃P₄ was synthesized
from Ni powder (Alfa, 99.5 * [11] Diffraction experiments were performed
with neutrons of wavelength 1.5403 A produced by a Cu(311)
monochromator. Colli-mators with horizontal divergences of 15^(′),
20^(′), and 7^(′) of arc were used before and after the monochromator,
and after the sample, respectively. Data were collected in the 2θ range
of 3^(∘)−168^(∘) with a step size of 0.05^(∘). The neutron-scattering
amplitudes used in the refinements were La=0.824, Ni=1.030, P =0.513,
and O=0.581×10⁻¹² cm. * [12] B. H. Toby, J. Appl. Crystallogr. **34**,
210 (2001). * [13] A. C. Larson and R. B. Von Dreele, Los Alamos
National Laboratory LAUR, Report No. 86, 2000 (unpublished). * [14] J.
W. Kaiser and W. Jeitschko, Z. Naturforsch. B **57**, 165 (2002). * [15]
V. Vidosola, L. Pourovskii, R. Arita, S. Biermann, and A. Georges, Phys.
Rev. B **78**, 064518 (2008). * [16] R. Hoffmann and C. Zheng, J. Phys.
Chem. **89**, 4175 (1985). * [17] W. K. Hofmann and W. Jeitschko, J.
Solid State Chem. **51**, 152 (1984). * [18] Due to the polycrystalline
nature of the samples, this quantity is averaged over all
crystallographic directions. * [19] M. Nohara, M. Isshiki, H. Takagi,
and R. J. Cava, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **66**, 1888 (1997). * [20] J.
Bardeen, L. N. Cooper, and J. R. Schrieffer, Phys. Rev. **108**, 1175
(1957). * [21] W. L. McMillan, Phys. Rev. **167**, 331 (1968). * [22] N.
R. Werthamer, E. Helfand, and P. C. Hohenberg, Phys. Rev. **147**, 295
(1966). * [23] H. Takagi, H. M. Nohara, and R. J. Cava, Physica B
**237-238**, 292 (1997). * [24] Z. Q. Mao, M. M. Rosario, K. D. Nelson,
K. Wu, I. G. Deac, P. Schiffer, Y. Liu, T. He, K. A. Regan, and R. J.
Cava, Phys. Rev. B **67**, 094502 (2003). * [25] A. Subedi, D. J. Singh,
and M. H. Du, Phys. Rev. B **78**, 060506(R) (2008). * [26] H. S. Lee,
D. J. Jang, H. G. Lee, S. I. Lee, S. M. Choi, and C. J. Kim, Adv. Mater.
**19**, 1807 (2007). * [27] T. Watanabe, M. Nohara, T. Hanaguri, and H.
Takagi, Phys. Rev. Lett. **92**, 147002 (2004). * [28] B. Bergk, V.
Petzold, H. Rosner, S. L. Drechsler, M. Bartkowiak, O. Ignatchik, A. D.
Bianchi, I. Sheikin, P. C. Canfield, and J. Wosnitza, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**100**, 257004 (2008). * [29] S. A. Kivelson, Physica B **318**, 61
(2002); S. A. Kivelson (private communication).
