# Anisotropy and reversible magnetization of the infinite-layer
superconductor Sr0.9La0.1CuO2

Mun-Seog Kim

Department of Physics, Ohio State University, Columbus, Ohio 43210-1106
and National Creative Research Initiative Center for Superconductivity,
Pohang 790-784, Republic of Korea

Thomas R. Lemberger

Department of Physics, Ohio State University, Columbus, Ohio 43210-1106
National Creative Research Initiative Center for Superconductivity and
Department of Physics, Pohang University of Science and Technology,
Pohang 790-784, Republic of Korea

C. U. Jung

Jae-Hyuk Choi

J. Y. Kim

Heon-Jung Kim

Sung-Ik Lee

National Creative Research Initiative Center for Superconductivity and
Department of Physics, Pohang University of Science and Technology,
Pohang 790-784, Republic of Korea

5 August 2002200211 December 2002

###### Abstract

We present reversible magnetization measurements of a c-axis aligned
Sr0.9La0.1CuO2 infinite-layer superconductor with T_(c) = 43 K. The
magnetization measured as a function of temperature and angle between
the c axis and the external magnetic field are analyzed in terms of the
Hao-Clem model. Consequently, the critical fields [H_(c)(0),
H_(c1)^(c)(0), and H_(c2)^(c)(0)] and the characteristic lengths
[ξ_(ab)(0) and λ_(ab)(0)] are derived. We introduce a novel technique to
describe the angular dependence of magnetization using the Hao-Clem
model by employing the effective mass anisotropy. The anisotropy ratio γ
= 9.3 and the zero-temperature coherence length along the c axis
ξ_(c)(0) = 5.2 A are obtained by the technique. The coherence length
ξ_(c)(0) is longer than the c-axis lattice parameter c = 3.41 A, which
implies three-dimensional coupling between CuO2 planes even at zero
temperature.

pacs: 74.72.Jt, 74.60.Ec, 74.25.Ha + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL
REVIEW B **66**, 214509 (2002)

## I Introduction

For the cuprate superconductors previously studied, the zero-temperature
coherence length along the c axis, ξ_(c)(0), is much smaller than the
c-axis lattice parameter. As the temperature increase toward T_(c), a
dimensional crossover from two dimensions (2D) to 3D occurs at a certain
temperature T^(Φ) where ξ_(c)(T^(Φ)) = $c/\sqrt{2}$.[1] For YBa2Cu0Y7-δ
(Y-123) known as the least anisotropic cuprate superconductor, a
substantial 3D temperature region around T_(c) is observed due to strong
interlayer coupling.[2] However, the 3D region for strongly anisotropic
compounds, such as Bi-based superconductors, is found to be extremely
narrow.[3]

The infinite-layer superconductors (ILS) have attracted much attention
due to their simple structure: infinite stacking of CuO2 planes
separated only by alkaline earth ions.[4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9] Since the unit
cell of an infinite-layer superconductor does not have a charge
reservoir block (CRB), such as a rock-salt- or a fluoritelike block in
usual high-T_(c) superconductors, the distance between CuO2 planes is
the shortest among the cuprates. Hence, one can expect a strong coupling
between CuO2 planes and consequently a low anisotropy in superconducting
properties.

Recently, Chen _et al.[10]_ reported the absence of a zero bias
conductance peak in tunneling measurements on infinite-layer
Sr0.9La0.1CuO2, implying a s-wave superconducting order parameter
symmetry in the compound.[11] This has a thread of connection with
growing evidence for the existence of a nodeless gap on the Fermi
surface of various electron-doped cuprate superconductors.[12, 13, 14,
15] Additional support for conventional pairing in ILS can be found in
recent impurity doping experiments.[16] A 3

In this work, we carry out reversible magnetization measurements of an
infinite-layer Sr0.9La0.1CuO2 [Sr(La)-112] superconductor with T_(c) =
43 K. In this compound, the charge carriers (electrons) in the CuO2
planes are supplied from partially substituted La ions. With the c-axis
aligned sample, we measure the temperature dependence of magnetization
in various external magnetic fields and derive various superconducting
parameters such as the critical field H_(c)(0) and the coherence length
ξ_(ab)(0). To examine the dimensionality of the compound, we measure the
magnetization as a function of the angle between the c axis and the
external magnetic field and obtain the anisotropy ratio γ =
ξ_(ab)/ξ_(c). From these, we find that the usual 2D temperature region
with ξ_(c)(T) < c does not exist below T_(c) in this compound.

## II Experiments

Details of sample preparation are given in Ref. [17]. A cubic
multi-anvil-type press was used to synthesize Sr(La)-112. The precursors
were prepared by using the solid-state reaction method. Starting
materials of La2O3, SrCO3, and CuO were mixed to the nominal composition
of Sr0.9La0.1CuO2. The mixture was then calcined at 950 degC for 36 h
with several intermittent grindings. The pelletized precursors,
sandwiched by Ti oxygen getters, were put into a Au capsule in a high
pressure cell. The pressure cell was compressed up to 4 GPa and then
heat treated using a graphite-sleeve heater.

The structural characterization of the sample was carried out using
scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and the Rietveld analysis of a powder
x-ray diffraction (XRD) pattern. The SEM image of the sample shows
closely packed grains with an average radius R 5 μm. The Rietveld
analysis shows that the doping concentration in our Sr_(1 − x)La_(x)CuO₂
is approximately x 0.1, which is the same as the nominal composition.
This compound has a tetragonal symmetry (_p_4/_mmm_) with lattice
parameters a = 3.950 A and c = 3.410 A, which agree well with a previous
report of neutron powder diffraction analysis by Jorgensen _et al._[6]
Within the resolution of the above analyses, no discernible amounts of
impurities were observed.

To obtain a _c_-axis-aligned sample, the Farrell method [18] was
employed. The sample powder was passed through a fine sieve to remove
possible intergrain coupling. This fine powder was aligned in a
commercial epoxy with an external magnetic field of 11 T. After
alignment, only the (002) reflection was seen in the XRD pattern. The
full width at half maximum of the x-ray rocking curve of the (002)
reflection is less than 1 degree, which indicates excellent _c_-axis
alignment. The composite of the sample powder and epoxy is approximately
9.5 mm in length and 3 mm in diameter, and the mass of sample (cuprate)
is 21.7 mg.

The magnetization was measured as a function of temperature and the
angle between the c axis and the applied magnetic field by using a
superconducting quantum interference device (SQUID) magnetometer
(MPMS-XL, Quantum design). The background contribution from epoxy and
impurities was subtracted from the observed values.

## III Results and Discussion

Figure 1 shows the low-field magnetization of the aligned sample 4 πM(T)
measured for the external field _H_${}_{\rm{ext}}$ = 5 Oe, parallel to
the c axis. The superconducting transition occurs at T = 42.7 K with a
transition width Δ_T__(c) of roughly 10 K. At T = 5 K, the nominal
shielding (Meissner) fraction 4 $\pi M/H_{\rm{ext}}$ is about 110

The inset of Fig. 2 shows representative reversible magnetization curves
4 πM(T) measured in the external field range 1 T≤_H_${}_{\rm{ext}}$≤5 T
parallel to the c axis. (In this high-field region, the reversible
magnetization is extremely small compared to _H_${}_{\rm{ext}}$, so H =
_H_${}_{\rm{ext}}$− 4 πMD ≈ _H_${}_{\rm{ext}}$.) The curves shift to
lower temperature as the field increases and are almost parallel to each
other. The parallel shift can be understood in terms of the Abrikosov
model, [19] where the magnetization increases linearly with the magnetic
field. This manifestly mean-field behavior suggests weak thermal
fluctuations in this material. More concrete evidence for this can be
found from a scaling analysis of the fluctuation-induced magnetization
for the high-field region. [20; 21] In our previous report, [22] we
showed that the high-field magnetization scales excellently with the
scaling parameter [_T__(c)(H)]/_(TH)_[23], implying weak fluctuation
effects.

Figure 2 shows the irreversibility line _H_${}_{\rm{int}}(T)$, obtained
from the 4 πM(T) for 0.2 T≤_H_≤5 T. The irreversible tem

Figure 1: Low-field magnetization 4 πM(T) of _c_-axis aligned
Sr_(0.9)La_(0.1)CuO₂ measured for H = 5 Oe parallel to the c axis. Upper
and lower curves represent field-cooled (Meissner) and zero-field-cooled
(shielding) 4 πM(T)’s, respectively. Inset: Comparison of
zero-field-cooled M(T)/|M( 5 K|) curves before and after grain
alignment.

Figure 2: Irreversibility line _H_${}_{\rm{int}}(T)$ obtained from 4
πM(T) for 0.2 T≤_H_≤5 T. Solid line represents the formula
_H_${}_{\rm{int}}(T)$ = _H_₀(1 −_T_/_T__(c))_^(n), fitted to data.
Inset: Zero-field-cooled magnetization curves measured in the field
range for 1 T≤_H_≤5 T with a 1 T step.

perature $T_{\rm inr}(H)$ is defined as the temperature at which the
simple criterion $M_{\rm FC}/M_{\rm ZFC}\!=\!0.98$ holds. The solid line
represents the empirical formula,
$H_{\rm inr}(T)\!=\!H_{0}(1-T/T_{c})^{n}$, fitted to data. Values of the
adjustable parameters are T_(c) = 42.6 K, H₀ = 22 T, and n = 1.67. The
value of n is close to n = 1.5 found for Y-123 [23]. In quasi-2D
superconductors, there exists a transition from a power-law behavior at
low fields to an exponential behavior of ∼ exp (1/T) at high fields in
$H_{\rm inr}(T)$, referred as the decoupling transition [24]. For
example, the decoupling transition occurs at H ≈ 0.1 T in Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O₈
(Bi-2212). On the other hand, Y-123 does not show such a feature due to
rather strong coupling between its CuO₂ planes. Therefore, the value of
n = 1.67 and the nonexistence of the decoupling transition suggest
strong interlayer coupling in Sr(La)-112 similar to that in Y-123.

To describe our reversible magnetization data, we use the Hao-Clem model
[25] based on the Ginzburg-Landau (GL) theory. This model considers not
only the electromagnetic energy outside of the core, but also the
kinetic and condensation energy change arising from suppression of the
order parameter in the vortex core. This variational model permits a
reliable description of the reversible magnetization in the entire mixed
state and an accurate determination of thermodynamic parameters such as
the critical field H_(c)(0)[26].

In the Hao-Clem model, the reversible magnetization being expressed in
dimensionless form 4 πM^(′)(H^(′)) is a universal function for a given
value of the GL parameter κ and is temperature independent. Here, the
magnetization and external field are defined as
$4\,\pi M^{\prime}\!=\!4\,\pi M/\sqrt{2}H_{c}(T)$ and H^(′) =
$H\sqrt{2}H_{c}(T)$[25]. At a fixed temperature, the ratio
4 πM(H_(i))/H_(i)(i = 1, 2, …) in experimental data corresponds to the
ratio 4 πM^(′)/H^(′) at a certain point on the theoretical curve with a
given κ. By this correspondence, the value of $\sqrt{2}H_{c}(T)$ is
determined from the ratio H^(′)/H_(i) for each i = 1, 2, …. If the value
of κ is appropriately chosen, then it results in the smallest error in
$\sqrt{2}H_{c}(T)$. From this procedure, an optimal value
κ_(c) = Λ_(ab)/ξ_(ab) = 25.3 is obtained from the data in the
temperature range of 24 K ≈ 38 K, and 4 πM(H) data are represented by an
universal curve with scaling factor $\sqrt{2}H_{c}(T)$ as shown in Fig.
3. All data clearly collapse onto a single curve. The uncertainty of
κ_(c) is ± 1.1, which is about ± 5

A large anisotropy is an important feature of HTSC. In the continuum
limit, the anisotropy can be represented using the effective mass
tensor, and the degree of anisotropy can be quantified by the ratio,
$\gamma^{\rm\rm\prime}\!=\!(m_{c}/m_{ab})^{1/2}$, where m_(c) and m_(ab)
are the effective mass of electrons in c and ab directions. In
experiments, the anisotropy ratio can be obtained by measuring the
angular dependence of magnetization or magnetic torque. The former
measures the longitudinal component of magnetization M_(L)∥H and the
latter measures the transverse component of magnetization M_(γ ⊥)H.
Previously, Farrell _et al._[29, 30] measured the magnetic torque curves
for highly anisotropic Bi-2212 and moderately anisotropic Y-123. By
applying the London model to the data, they obtained the anisotropy
ratios $\gamma^{\rm\rm\prime}\!\approx\!55$ and
$\gamma^{\rm\prime}\!\approx\!5$ for Bi-2212 and Y-123, respectively.
Here, we obtain the anisotropy ratio of Sr(La)-112 by measuring M_(L)(θ)
using a SQUID magnetometer with a sample rotator. The obtained data are
described by the Hao-Clem model [25], which considers the effective mass
anisotropy of material. For comparison, we also apply the London model
[31] to the data.

In the London model [31], including the effective mass anisotropy,
M_(L)(θ) is represented by

$$4\,\pi M_{L}(\theta)\!=\!-\,\frac{\phi_{0}\epsilon(\theta)}{8\,\pi\lambda_{ab} ^{2}}\ln\!\left(\frac{H_{c2}^{\rm c}\beta}{B}\,\frac{1}{\epsilon(\theta)} \right),$$
(1)

Figure 3: Magnetization
$-4\,\pi M^{\prime}\!=\!-4\,\pi M/\sqrt{2}H_{c}(T)$ vs external magnetic
field $H^{\prime}\!=\!H/\sqrt{2}H_{c}(T)$. Different symbols denote data
addressed at different temperatures. Solid line represents the universal
curve derived from the Hao-Clem model with κ_(c) = 25.3. Inset:
Temperature dependence of the thermodynamic critical field H_(c)(T)
derived from M(T) and M_(L)(θ). Solid line represents the BCS
temperature dependence of H_(c) .

where ϕ₀ is the flux quantum, β is of order unity, H_(c2)^(c) is the
upper critical field for H∥c, θ is angle between H and the c-axis, and
ϵ(θ)=(γ⁻²sin²θ+cos²θ)^(1/2). This formula is valid for H≪H_(c2).

The Hao-Clem model can be used in a simple way to describe M_(L)(θ).
Since H_(c)(T) is an isotropic parameter, the angular dependence of
magnetization, M_(L)(θ), is determined by the anisotropy in κ. Using the
effective mass tensor, the angular dependence of κ is written as [25]

$$\kappa(\theta)=\frac{\kappa_{c}}{\epsilon(\theta)}.$$
(2)

Figure 4 shows representative 4 πM_(L)(θ) curves measured for H= 1 T.
Solid lines in this plot represent Hao-Clem model fits with κ_(c)= 23.
The theoretical lines give a good fit to the data. A slight departure at
T= 39.5 K is inferred to originate from thermal fluctuation effects. The
filled symbols in the inset of Fig. 3 represent H_(c)(T) from this
M_(L)(θ) analysis. As one can see, the H_(c)(T) values determined from
both M(T) and M_(L)(θ) fall smoothly on the same curve. This implies a
considerable consistency between M_(L)(θ) and previous M(T) analyses.
Dashed lines in Fig. 4 represent the London model [Eq. (1)] fit to data.

Figure 5 is a plot of the anisotropy ratio obtained from each curve in
Fig. 4. The open and the filled symbols are deduced by application of
the Hao-Clem and the London models, respectively. In the open-symbol
set, the curve shows a plateau at low temperatures and then increases
monotonically with temperature. The increase is postulated to originate
from thermal fluctuation effects, as mentioned above. [32] In the
filled-symbol set, no such plateau feature exists. In fact, the London
model is suitable for the low-field region H≪H_(c2). However, as one can
see in Fig. 3, the reversible magnetization data lie in the Abrikosov
high-field region. In other words, the our data set is outside of the
London low-field region, and thus it is expected that the Hao-Clem model
gives a more correct description of the data.

It is quite natural to take the value of the plateau in the open-symbol
set as the real anisotropy ratio. With this value, γ= 9.3, we obtain an
out-of-plane coherence length of ξ_(c)(0)= 5.2 A by using the
relationship ξ_(c)= ξ_(ab)/γ and the value of ξ_(ab)(0) in Table 1. The
criterion for 3D superconductivity below T_(c) is ξ_(c)(T)>c/$\sqrt{2}$.
[1] The value of ξ_(c)(0) = 5.2 A is considerably larger than the
c/$\sqrt{2}$= 2.4 A. This means that the superconducting order parameter
of one CuO₂ plane overlaps with those of neighboring CuO₂ planes even at
zero temperature.

## IV Summary

We measure the temperature and angle dependence of the reversible
magnetization for a c axis aligned infinite-layer superconductor
Sr_(0.9)La_(0.1)CuO₂. The irreversible line deduced from M(T) curves
follows a power law $H_{\rm irr}(T)$ =H₀(1 − T/T_(c))^(n), with n= 1.67
in the entire experimental field region of H≤5 T. This feature differs
from in quasi-two-dimensional superconductors where a transition from
power-law behavior at lower fields to exponential behavior at higher
fields exists. Various superconducting parameters are obtained from
applying the Hao-Clem model to M(T) data. We have introduced a simple
technique to analyze M_(L)(θ) using the Hao-Clem model. Using this
technique, we deduce the anisotropy ratio γ= 9.3 and the coherence
length ξ_(c)(0) = 5.2 A. The value of ξ_(c)(0) is longer than the c-axis
lattice parameter, which implies that the superconducting order
parameter of one CuO₂ plane overlaps with those of neighboring CuO₂
planes for all temperatures below T_(c). The feature is also
consistently reflected in the irreversibility line and the
fluctuation-induced magnetization.

## Acknowledgments

This work was supported by Creative Research Initiatives of the Korean
Ministry of Science and Technology. The research at OSU was supported by
NSF Grant No. DMR-0203739. M.S.K. thanks Dr. John A. Skinta for valuable
discussions.

Figure 4: Angular dependence of the magnetization 4 πM_(L)(θ) measured
for H= 1 T. θ denotes the angle between the applied magnetic field and
the c axis. The solid and dashed lines represent the theoretical curves
from the Hao-Clem and London models.

Figure 5: Anisotropy ratio γ(T) obtained from 4 πM_(L)(θ). Open and
filled symbols are deduced from analyses based on the Hao-Clem and
London models, respectively. The solid lines are guides for the eyes.

## References

* [1] D.E. Prober, M.R. Beasley, and R.E. Schwall, Phys. Rev. B **15**,
5245 (1977). * [2] W.C. Lee, R.A. Klemm, and D.C. Johnston, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **63**, 1012 (1989). * [3] Q. Li, M. Suenaga, T. Hikata, and K.
Sato, Phys. Rev. B **46**, 5857 (1992). * [4] T. Siegrist, S.M. Zahurak,
D.W. Murphy, and R.S. Roth, Nature (London) **334**, 231 (1988). * [5]
M.G. Smith, A. Manthiram, J. Zhou, J.B. Goodenough, and J.T. Markert,
Nature (London) **351**, 549 (1991). * [6] J.D. Jorgensen, P.G.
Radaelli, D.G. Hinks, J.L. Wagner, S. Kikkawa, G. Er, and F. Kanamaru,
Phys. Rev. B **47**, 14 654 (1993). * [7] G. Er, S. Kikkawa, M.
Takahashi, and F. Kanamaru, Physica C **276**, 315 (1987). * [8] E.C.
Jones, D.P. Norton, D.K. Christen, and D.H. Lowndes, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**73**, 166 (1994). * [9] T. Imai, C.P. Slichter, J.L. Cobb, and J.T.
Markert, J. Phys. Chem. Solids **56**, 1921 (1995). * [10] C.-T. Chen,
P. Sneep, N.-C. Yeh, R.P. Vasquez, L.D. Bell, C.U. Jung, J.Y. Kim, M.-S.
Park, H.-J. Kim, and S.-I. Lee, Phys. Rev. Lett. **88**, 227002
(2002). * [11] D.J. VanHarlingen, Rev. Mod. Phys. **67**, 515 (1995). *
[12] J.A. Skinta, T.R. Lemberger, T. Greibe, and M. Naito, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **88**, 207003 (2002). * [13] J.A. Skinta, M.-S. Kim, T.R.
Lemberger, T. Greibe, and M. Naito, Phys. Rev. Lett. **88**, 207005
(2002). * [14] M.-S. Kim, J.A. Skinta, T.R. Lemberger, A. Tsukada, and
M. Naito (unpublished). * [15] A. Biswas, P. Fournier, M.M. Qazilbash,
V.N. Smolyaninova, H. Balci, and R.L. Greene, Phys. Rev. Lett. **88**,
207004 (2002). * [16] C.U. Jung, J.Y. Kim, M.-S. Park, M.-S. Kim, H.-J.
Kim, S.Y. Lee, and S.-I. Lee, Phys. Rev. B **65**, 172501 (2002). * [17]
C.U. Jung, J.Y. Kim, S.M. Lee, M.-S. Kim, Y. Yao, S.Y. Lee, S.-I. Lee,
and D.H. Ha, Physica C **364**, 225 (2002); C.U. Jung, J.Y. Kim, M.-S.
Park, H.-J. Kim, Y. Yao, S.Y. Lee, and S.-I. Lee, _ibid._**366**, 299
(2002). * [18] D.E. Farrell, B.S. Chandrasekhar, M.R. DeGuire, M.M.
Fang, V.G. Kogan, J.R. Clem, and D.K. Finnemore, Phys. Rev. B **36**,
4025 (1987). * [19] M. Tinkham, _Introduction to Superconductivity_, 2nd
ed. (McGraw-Hill, New York, 1996). * [20] S. Ullah and A.T. Dorsey,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **65**, 2066 (1990). * [21] Z. Tesanovic and A.V.
Andreev, Phys. Rev. B **49**, 4064 (1994). * [22] M.-S. Kim, C.U. Jung,
J.Y. Kim, J.-H. Choi, and S.-I. Lee, Solid State Commun. **123**, 17
(2002). * [23] Y. Yeshurun and A.P. Malozemoff, Phys. Rev. Lett. **60**,
2202 (1988). * [24] A. Schilling, R. Jin, J.D. Guo, and H.R. Ott, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **71**, 1899 (1993). * [25] Z. Hao and J.R. Clem, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **67**, 2371 (1991); Z. Hao, J.R. Clem, M.W. McElfresh, L. Civale,
A.P. Malozemoff, and F. Holtberg, Phys. Rev. B **43**, 2844 (1991). *
[26] J.R. Thompson, J.G. Ossandon, D.K. Christen, M. Paranthaman, E.D.
Specht, and Y.C. Kim, Phys. Rev. B **54**, 7505 (1996); M.-S. Kim, S.-I.
Lee, S.-C. Yu, and N.H. Hur, _ibid._**53**, 9460 (1996); M.-S. Kim,
S.-I. Lee, S.-C. Yu, I. Kuzemskaya, E.S. Itskevich, and K.A. Lokshin,
_ibid._**57**, 6121 (1998); M.-S. Kim, S.-I. Lee, A. Iyo, K. Tokiwa, M.
Tokumoto, and H. Ihara, _ibid._**57**, 8667 (1998); M.-S. Kim, C.U.
Jung, S.-I. Lee, and A. Iyo, _ibid._**63**, 134513 (2001). * [27] J.R.
Clem, Ann. Phys. (N.Y.) **40**, 286 (1966). * [28] N.R. Werthamer, E.
Helfand, and P.C. Hohenberg, Phys. Rev. **147**, 2959 (1966). * [29]
D.E. Farrell, S. Bonham, J. Foster, Y.C. Chang, P.Z. Jiang, K.G.
Vandervoort, D.J. Lam, and V.G. Kogan, Phys. Rev. Lett. **63**, 782
(1989). * [30] D.E. Farrell, C.M. Williams, S.A. Wolf, N.P. Bansal, and
V.G. Kogan, Phys. Rev. Lett. **61**, 2805 (1988). * [31] V.G. Kogan,
M.M. Fang, and S. Mitra, Phys. Rev. B **38**, 11958 (1988); V.G. Kogan,
_ibid._**38**, 7049 (1988). * [32] V.G. Kogan, M. Ledvij, A.Y. Simonov,
J.H. Cho, and D.C. Johnston, Phys. Rev. Lett. **70**, 1870 (1993).
