# Role of bromine in restoring superconductivity in YBa2Cu3O3

D. M. Potrepka, J. I. Budnick, D. B. Fenner,* and W. A. Hines

Department of Physics and Institute of Materials Science, University of
Connecticut, Storrs, Connecticut 06269

M. Balasubramanian

Chemical Technology Division, Argonne National Laboratory, Argonne,
Illinois 60439

A. R. Moodenbaugh

Materials Science Division, Brookhaven National Laboratory, Upton, New
York 11973

###### Abstract

^(63, 65)Cu nuclear quadrupole resonance (NQR), ^(63, 65)Cu and
^(78, 81)Br nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR), and Br _K_-edge
x-ray-absorption fine-structure (XAFS) measurement techniques have been
used to study the local structures of Cu and Br in well-characterized
samples of deoxygenated and brominated YBa2Cu3O3 (YBCO). The combined
results provide a detailed picture of the role of bromine in
reoxygenating the YBCO structure and an explanation for the partial
restoration of superconductivity in the YBCO system. Characterization of
the powder samples, with particle sizes of 1, 20, 30, and 40 μm,
included x-ray diffraction, thermal gravimetric analysis, energy
dispersive x-ray analysis, and magnetometry. From the XAFS and NMR
results, it is concluded that, upon bromination at 260 ^(∘)C, Br does
not enter the YBCO lattice either substitutionally or interstitially.
Instead, there is compelling evidence for the formation of nanoscale
BaBr2 precipitates which result from the local destruction of the
YBa2Cu3O3 phase. Furthermore, on the basis of the NQR and NMR
experiments, it is concluded that through this decomposition into an
inhomogeneous material, oxygen is liberated which repopulates the nearby
O(4) chain sites, thus restoring superconductivity.
[S0163-1829(99)01838-X]

## I Introduction

In studies involving the halogenation of YBa2Cu3O3 (YBCO), it has been
observed that Cl,1 Br,2-6 and 17 return the lattice of deoxygenated YBCO
from the nonsuperconducting tetragonal phase to the orthorhombic phase
with superconductivity being partially restored. In particular, Radousky
_et al._2 report that the partially restored phase that results from the
bromination of deoxygenated YBCO yields a reduced critical current
J_(c), compared to that of the fully oxygenated parent YBa2Cu3O7 −δ In
addition, the magnetic-field dependence of J_(c) which has been observed
for such brominated materials has stimulated interest because of
potential application in flux-flow studies.5,8 The location of the Br
atoms in the treated material and its effect on the restoration of
superconductivity in deoxygenated YBCO remained unexplained until very
recently.6 Presented here is a more thorough investigation into the
structural properties of brominated YBCO. This study provides a detailed
picture of the role of bromine in the partial decomposition of
deoxygenated YBCO and the restoration of superconductivity in the
undecomposed regions of the deoxygenated phase.

Halogens are known to cause some degradation of the YBCO
superconductor.1-5,7 X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy binding-energy
studies reported by Fukuda _et al._9 indicate that bromine inserted into
deoxygenated YBCO may have a chemical environment similar to that in
BaBr2. However, the x-ray photoelectron spectroscopy technique is
surface sensitive and may not represent the bulk composition. Their
assumptions are, however, also supported by their Raman and magnetometry
studies. Neutron-diffraction measurements suggest that the Br atoms
occupy vacant O(4) sites in the YBCO lattice, although such experiments
are hampered by the similarity in the neutron-scattering lengths of
oxygen and bromine.4 Also, the broadening of x-ray-diffraction peaks has
been attributed to Br atoms occupying the interstitial sites in the YBCO
lattice;1 however, no direct evidence exists for this to date. Kemnitz
_et al._10 have suggested that another halogen, Cl, which partially
restores superconductivity in YBa2Cu3O6.3, causes a local decomposition
reaction to occur, creating an amorphous product and simultaneously
oxygenating the unreacted grain interiors. The amorphous nature and
nonsuperconducting behavior of much of the resulting sample for high Cl
content are seen as evidence for a partial decomposition. They interpret
the incorporation of a large amount of chlorine into YBCO as
inconsistent with an otherwise unchanged YBCO structure. Studies of
chlorine addition to YBa2Cu3O6.2 by Faulques _et al._11 using x-ray
photoelectron spectroscopy and x-ray diffraction indicate that the Cl
oxidation number is between −1 and 0. This led to the conclusion that
chlorine enters vacancies in BaO planes and promotes diffusion of the
oxygen toward empty O(1) sites, a conclusion that was also supported by
Raman spectroscopy results.

In order to understand the mechanism by which superconductivity is
restored, it is important to understand the local atomic structures of
Cu and Br in the brominated YBCO system. In this work, nuclear
quadrupole resonance (NQR) and nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) of
^(63, 65)Cu, NMR of ^(78, 81)Br, and x-ray-absorption fine-structure
(XAFS) of the Br _K_-edge were utilized to study the local structure in
well-characterized powder samples of parent, deoxygenated, and
brominated YBa2Cu3O3 . The sample characterization included: (1) thermal
gravimetric analysis (TGA) to measure the oxygen content after
deoxygenation, (2) energy dispersive x-ray analysis (EDAX) to monitor
the presence of bromine after bromination, (3) x-ray diffraction (XRD)
of the parent, deoxygenated, and brominated samples, and (4)
superconducting quantum interference device (SQUID) magnetometry to
monitor the effect of deoxygenation and bromination on the
superconductivity. Values for the nominal oxygen content, which were
assigned to the samples after deoxygenation, were obtained primarily
from the TGA results; however, for comparison, values were also obtained
from measurements of the superconducting transition temperature T_(c) ,
and lattice parameters. The Br _K_-edge XAFS experiments on deoxygenated
and brominated YBCO clearly demonstrate that bromine does not occupy any
detectable number of sites within the YBCO lattice, either as a
substitutional or interstitial atom. Instead, the XAFS results indicate
the presence of BaBr2 regions with nanoscale dimensions. Furthermore,
the 79.81Br NMR measurements show that the local environment surrounding
the Br atoms in brominated YBCO is very similar to that for Br in BaBr2.
63,65Cu NQR and NMR spectra obtained from Cu atoms in the chain Cu(1)
and plane Cu(2) sites show that the bromination treatment essentially
restores the spectra from that characteristic of deoxygenated YBCO to
that characteristic for a fully oxygenated parent YBa2Cu3O7-_d_
superconductor. However, the intensity of the plane Cu(2) peaks relative
to the chain Cu(1) peaks in the brominated samples is diminished when
compared to those in the parent material. By using three locally probing
measurement techniques, NQR, NMR, and XAFS, information has been
obtained concerning the structural changes induced by the bromination of
deoxygenated YBa2Cu3O7-_d_ and the nature of the restoration of the
superconducting state.

## II Experimental apparatus and procedure

### Sample preparation and characterization

Several powder samples were prepared and characterized for use in the
NQR, NMR, and XAFS experiments. Table 1 lists each sample, along with
the corresponding composition (nominal oxygen content), particle size,
and deoxygenation/bromination treatment. Samples S1 through S9 were
prepared from 99.999

Deoxygenation was carried out by heating the sample powder in a chamber
which was first evacuated and then filled with 99.999

  ------------------------------------------------ ------------------- ------------------------------------ ----------- ---------- ----------------- -------- --
                       Sample                          Composition                 Preparation               _T_max(K)   T_(c)(K)   (_M__M__p_)10 K   MFR(%)  
                         S1                            YBa2Cu3O6.9                1 _μ_m; parent                86          92           1.00          6.1    
                         S2                         YBa2Cu3O6.9 +Br2            Br2 260 °C, 1⁄2 h               86          92           1.00          6.1    
                         S3                            YBa2Cu3O6.6                He 450 °C, 4 h                48          60           0.26          1.6    
                         S4                         YBa2Cu3O6.6 +Br2    He 450 °C, 4 h; Br2 260 °C, 1⁄2 h       86          92           0.52          3.2    
                         S5                            YBa2Cu3O6.1                He 700 °C, 4 h                <5          <5             0            0     
                         S6                         YBa2Cu3O6.1 +Br2    He 700 °C, 4 h; Br2 260 °C, 1⁄2 h       86          92           0.35          2.1    
                         S7                            YBa2Cu3O6.2                He 675 °C, 8 h                                                              
                         S8                            YBa2Cu3O6.2      He 675 °C, 8 h; vac. 260 °C, 1⁄2 h                                                    
                         S9                          YBa2Cu3O6.6 +O2      He 450 °C, 4 h; O2 560 °C, 4 h        87          92           0.85          5.2    
                         L1                            YBa2Cu3O6.9               20 _μ_m; parent                87          93           1.00          7.9    
                         L2                            YBa2Cu3O6.6                He 450 °C, 4 h                57          69           0.42          3.3    
                         L3                         YBa2Cu3O6.6 +Br2    He 450 °C, 4 h; Br2 260 °C, 1⁄2 h       85          92           0.71          5.6    
                         L4                            YBa2Cu3O6.6                He 750 °C, 5 h                <5          <5             0            0     
                         L5                         YBa2Cu3O6.6 +-Br2   He 750 °C, 5 h; Br2 260 °C, 1⁄2 h       85          93           0.48          3.8    
                         M1                            YBa2Cu3O6.9               40 _μ_m; parent                90          93           1.00          100    
                         M2                            YBa2Cu3O6.7                He 450 °C, 4 h                58          80           0.46           46    
                         M3                         YBa2Cu3O6.7 +Br2    He 450 °C, 4 h; Br2 260 °C, 1⁄2 h       90          93           0.85           85    
                         M4                            YBa2Cu3O6.9               30 _μ_m; parent                90          92           1.00           79    
                         M5                         YBa2Cu3O6.8 +Br2             Br2 260 °C, 24 h               90          92           1.05           83    
                         M6                         YBa2Cu3O6.1 +Br2     He 700 °C, 4 h; Br2 260 °C, 24 h       82          90           0.18           14    
   Sample S1 (parent), M_(p) = – 7.7 × 10−3 emu/g                                                                                                             
   Sample L1 (parent), M_(p) = – 1.0 × 10−2 emu/g                                                                                                             
   Sample M1 (parent), M_(p) = – 1.3 × 10−1 emu/g                                                                                                             
   Sample M4 (parent), M_(p) = – 1.0 × 10−1 emu/g                                                                                                             
  ------------------------------------------------ ------------------- ------------------------------------ ----------- ---------- ----------------- -------- --

Table 1: Samples and characteristics.

ation temperatures were used: (1) the relatively low value of 450 ^(∘)C
and (2) higher values near 700 ^(∘)C. The deoxygenation time ranged from
4-8 h. At the conclusion of the deoxygenation treatment, the sample
powder was allowed to cool to room temperature. Bromination was carried
out using an "equilibrium" technique based on a method previously
employed by Radousky and co-workers.[2, 13] In this procedure, the
sample chamber was initially evacuated to a background pressure of 2 ×
10⁻⁶ torr to reduce the effect of contaminants. The sample powder was
heated to 260 ^(∘)C and then exposed to a source containing liquid
bromine at room temperature such that during bromination, the total
pressure in the sample chamber was just the Br2 vapor pressure. Upon
completion of the bromination treatment, the liquid bromine source
temperature was lowered to 77 K by immersing it in liquid N2, which
caused the Br2 vapor in the sample chamber to be reclaimed at the
bromine source. The sample powder was then exposed to an inert He gas
flow and cooled to room temperature. The typical bromination treatment
time was $\frac{1}{2}$ h. However, a shorter time of $\frac{1}{4}$ h and
longer time of 24 h were also used. Table 1 shows that sample S7, with a
1-μm particle size, was deoxygenated at 675 ^(∘)C for 8 h. Sample S8
underwent the same deoxygenation treatment as sample S7, and then was
exposed to the same thermal treatment used in bromination (260 ^(∘)C for
$\frac{1}{2}$ h) except that it was under vacuum with no Br2 vapor
present.

Estimates for the resulting sample stoichiometry (or nominal oxygen
content) after deoxygenation were made (indirectly) using a Perkin-Elmer
TGA-7 instrument for thermal gravimetric analysis. Initial TGA
measurements using powder samples proved to be uncertain due to large
changes in mass during the cooldown following the deoxygenation heat
treatment. This was attributed to temperature-dependent surface effects.
Consequently, subsequent measurements were carried out on small pieces
of bulk YBa2Cu3O7-δ which were approximately cubic, 2 mm on each side.
In addition, samples S2, S4, S6, M5, and M6 were analyzed using energy
dispersive x-ray analysis in order to monitor the bromine content.
X-ray-diffraction measurements were carried out on the various parent
powder samples as well as after the deoxygenation and bromination
treatments using a Phillips diffractometer equipped with a single
crystal monochrometer and Cu-K α radiation (λ = 1.5418 A). The intensity
was recorded as a function of 2Θ, Θ being the Bragg diffraction angle,
using a homemade computer interface. Finally, magnetization measurements
were performed on the samples listed in Table 1 using a Quantum Design
MPMS SQUID magnetometer.

### Nuclear quadrupole resonance and nuclear magnetic resonance

^(63, 65)Cu NQR and NMR spectra, as well as ^(79, 81)Br NMR spectra,
were obtained using a Matec phase-coherent spin-echo pulse spectrometer.
Details concerning the instrumentation, experimental procedure, and data
acquisition are provided in references 13 and 14 and references therein.
A conventional double glass dewar system with pumping enabled operation
at liquid-He temperatures. In particular, zero-field spin-echo NQR and
NMR spectra were obtained for ^(63, 65)Cu nuclei in the chain Cu(1) and
plane Cu(2) sites in YBCO over the frequency ranges 18-34 MHz and 70-110
MHz. In order to initially approximate the tuning and excitation
conditions, the room-temperature ⁶³Cu NQR free induction decay was
observed at 26.0 MHz in Cu2O. For the ^(63, 65)Cu spectra, a typical
_t_m/2-_t_-_t_= = 4 μs-60 μs-8 μs spin-echo pulse sequence was used with
a 0.5-Hz repetition rate. Spectra were obtained with usable
signal-to-noise by averaging 100 repetitions. ^(79, 81)Br NMR
measurements were made using the same phase-coherent pulse spectrometer
described above along with an Oxford Instruments superconducting magnet.
The frequency was fixed at t = 52.84 MHz as the magnetic field was
ramped (swept) from 4.5-5.0 T. For the ^(79, 81)Br spectra, a typical
_t_m/2-_t_-_t_= = 20 μs-120 μs-40 μs spin-echo pulse sequence was used
with a 10-Hz repetition rate. Spectra were obtained with usable
signal-to-noise by averaging 5000 repetitions.

### Extended x-ray-absorption fine structure

The XAFS experiments were carried out in the transmission mode at the
X-11A beamline of the National Synchrotron Light Source, Brookhaven
National Laboratory, using a double-crystal Si (111) monochromator. This
beamline has instrumentation which can be used to make XAFS and
fluorescence measurements at the absorption edges of the elements being
studied. The apparatus is described in detail elsewhere.[15, 15] For
each sample, the powder was rubbed onto Kapton tape which was used to
create a stack of layers to get an appropriate edge jump and to avoid
systematic errors for the thickness effect. Harmonic rejection was
accomplished by detuning the monochromator to ∼80

## III Experimental results and analysis

### Thermal gravimetric analysis

Figure 1 shows the TGA mass loss (in

### Energy dispersive x-ray analysis

Energy dispersive x-ray analysis was used to monitor the Br atoms which
were actually incorporated into the samples.

The ratio of the Br-L₁ to Y-L₁ peak heights (at 1.5 and 1.8 keV,
respectively) provided a quantitative comparison of the Br content
between samples. For the three 1-μm YBa₂Cu₃O_(y) samples which underwent
the same bromination treatment (260 ^(∘)C for $\frac{1}{2}$ h), the EDAX
peak-height ratio was 0.1, 0.7, and 0.95 for S2, S4, and S6,
respectively. Since sample S2 was not deoxygenated, the nominal oxygen
content was y≈ 6.9. The oxygen content for sample S4, which was
deoxygenated at 450 ^(∘)C, was y≈ 6.6, while that for sample S6, which
was deoxygenated at 700 ^(∘)C was y≈ 6.1. The EDAX results clearly
indicate a trend of increased bromine absorption into the samples for
reduced oxygen content. This is also consistent with the EDAX results
from the 30-μm samples which underwent bromination for 24 h. The peak
ratio was 1.0 for sample M5 which was not deoxygenated, while the peak
ratio was 3.6 for sample M6 which was deoxygenated at 700 ^(∘)C for 4 h.
The relatively large incorporation of Br into sample M6 is also apparent
in the XRD pattern (see below).

### X-ray diffraction

A series of typical XRD spectra obtained in this work are provided in
Fig. 2. Figure 2(a) shows the standard Joint Committee on Powder
Diffraction Standards (JCPDS) powder pattern for YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ)[16]
Also shown are YBa₂Cu₃O_(y) powder patterns for three of the 1-μm
particle size samples: sample S1 which is the parent powder with y= 7
−δ≈ 6.9 [Fig. 2(b)], sample S5 which was deoxygenated at 700 ^(∘)C for 4
h yielding y≈ 6.1 [Fig. 2(c)], and sample S6 which was deoxygenated like
sample S5 and brominated at 260 ^(∘)C for $\frac{1}{2}$ h [Fig. 2(d)].
The Miller indices (hkl) for the principal YBCO peaks are indicated in
Fig. 2(b). Listed in Table 2 are the orthogonal lattice parameters (a,
b, and c) which were obtained by a least-squares fit of the peak
positions, along with the unit-cell volume (V) and degree of
orthorhombicity (OR = 200[(b − a)/(b + a)]). The
orthorhombic-tetragonal-orthorhombic shift is shown explicitly by the
crystallographic data listed in Table 2. In agreement with the results
obtained by Radousky _et al._,[2] the parent powder, which has an
orthorhombic structure, becomes more tetragonal (lower OR) upon
deoxygenation, and then returns to the more orthorhombic (higher OR)
structure after bromination. The same trends were also observed for
sample S3 which was deoxygenated at 450 ^(∘)C for 4 h yielding y≈ 6.6
and sample S4 which was deoxygenated like sample S3 and brominated at
260 ^(∘)C for $\frac{1}{2}$ h [Fig. 2(e)]. The crystallographic data
also provide a measure of the oxygen stoichiometry for the various
unbrominated samples as the lattice parameters can be directly related
to the oxygen content.[17, 18] A careful comparison of the lattice
parameters for the deoxygenated samples S3 and S5 listed in Table 2 with
the data of Cava _et al.[18]_ supported the values assigned for the
oxygen content from the TGA measurements. As seen in Fig. 2(b), there
are some small peaks designated by α, β, γ, δ, and ϵ which are not
associated with the YBCO crystal structure. These are due to a small
amount of second phase(s) which came in with the parent powder. Likely
candidates for the second phase(s) include BaCo₃, BaCuO₂, Ba₂CuO₃, Y₂O₃,
CuO, and Cu₂O. Similar second phase peaks were observed for the 20-μm

Figure 1: Thermal gravimetric analysis measurement of the mass loss from
bulk YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) versus time during deoxygenation under He gas flow
for various temperatures: (a) 450 ^(∘)C, (b) 550 ^(∘)C, (c) 650 ^(∘)C,
and (d) 700 ^(∘)C.

Figure 2: X-ray-diffraction spectra obtained for the various
YBa₂Cu₃O_(y) samples: (a) standard JCPDS powder pattern for
YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) see Ref. [16]; (b) sample S1, 1-μm particle size parent
powder; (c) sample S5, 1-μm powder after deoxygenation at 700 ^(∘)C for
4 h; (d) sample S6, 1-μm powder after deoxygenation at 700 ^(∘)C for 4 h
and bromination at 260 ^(∘)C for $\frac{1}{2}$ h; (e) sample S4, 1-μm
powder after deoxygenation at 450 ^(∘)C for 4 h and bromination at 260
^(∘)C for 4 h and bromination at 260 ^(∘)C for 4 h and bromination at
260 ^(∘)C for 4 h and bromination at 260 ^(∘)C for 4 h and bromination
at 260 ^(∘)C for 4 h and bromination at 260 ^(∘)C for 4 h.

parent powder (L1); however, there was no trace of a second phase in the
XRD patterns for the 30- and 40-μm parent powders (M4 and M1,
respectively).

Figures 2(f) and 2(g) show the XRD powder patterns for the 20-μm (sample
L3) and 40-μm (sample M3) particle size samples, respectively, which
have both undergone deoxygenation at 450 degC for 4 h, and then
bromination at 260 degC for $\frac{1}{2}$ h. The trend to return the
more tetragonal (lower OR) structure to the more orthorhombic (higher
OR) structure after bromination also occurred for the 20- and 40-μm
samples; however, the 40-μm sample exhibited some additional peaks which
were inconsistent with the YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) structure. The additional
peaks indicate the appearance of a second phase after bromination.[13]

Figure 2(h) shows the XRD powder pattern for the 30-μm sample M5 which
was brominated at 260 degC for 24 h without undergoing a prior
deoxygenation treatment, while Fig. 2(i) shows the pattern for the 30-μm
sample M6 which was also brominated for 24 h like sample M5 after
undergoing deoxygenation at 700 degC for 4 h. Although the parent powder
sample for both of these samples showed no sign of any second phase
peaks, such peaks start to appear for the samples after the long 24-h
bromination time (γ and δ). Furthermore, sample M6 which was
deoxygenated prior to the bromination treatment was altered more
drastically than sample M5 which was not deoxygenated in that: (1) the
YBCO peaks are broadened, (2) the second phase peaks are more intense,
and (3) a broad background appears between 25deg and 35deg. A similar
broad background also exists for sample M5; however, it is barely
visible. The broad background is consistent with the existence of
nanoscale-size regions of BaBr₂. It is noteworthy that the most intense
peak in the XRD pattern for orthorhombic and hexagonal BaBr₂ occurs at
29.68deg (121) and 30.59deg (201), respectively.

### Magnetization

Magnetization measurements were used to monitor the onset and fractional
amount of superconductivity in the various parent, deoxygenated, and
brominated samples (see Fig. 3). The zero-field-cooled (ZFC)
magnetization versus temperature behavior M(T) in emu/g was obtained for
a fixed magnetic field intensity of H = 10 Oe. Four parameters, which
are listed in Table 1, are defined to characterize the sample
superconductivity: (1) $T_{\rm max}$, the temperature at which M(T) has
maximum slope, (2) T_(c), the onset temperature for superconductivity,
(3) $(M/M_{p})_{10\;\rm K}$, the ZFC magnetization at T = 10 K
normalized by the value for the parent sample at 10 K, which provides a
quantitative measure of the degree of suppression and restoration of
superconductivity upon deoxygenation and bromination, respectively, and
(4) MFR, the ZFC Meissner fraction. The Meissner fraction was calculated
using MFR = ( - )4 πMρ/H, where ρ is the mass density. The small
Meissner fraction of the parent materials S1 and L1 cannot be explained
by the effect of penetration depth alone. However, grain boundaries
containing nonstoichiometric material can strongly reduce the Meissner
frac

  ------------------------------------- --------- ----------------------------- ---------- --------- ------
                 Sample                   a(Å)                b(Å)                 c(Å)      V(Å)      OR
                                                             Parent                                  
           (S1) YBa₂Cu₃O_(6.9)           3.82(0)             3.87(5)             11.68(0)   172.(9)   1.4
                                                          Deoxygenated                               
           (S3) YBa₂Cu₃O_(6.6)           3.83(0)             3.86(0)             11.74(5)   173.(6)   0.78
           (S5) YBa₂Cu₃O_(6.1)           3.84(0)             3.85(0)             11.77(0)   174.(0)   0.26
                                                   Deoxygenated and brominated                       
        (S4) YBa₂Cu₃O_(6.6) + Br         3.82(0)             3.88(0)             11.66(0)   172.(8)   1.6
        (S6) YBa₂Cu₃O_(6.1) + Br         3.82(0)             3.87(0)             11.70(0)   172.(9)   1.0
                                                        References values                            
            YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ)              3.819               3.886               11.680     173.3    1.7
   YBa₂Cu₃O_(6.6) + $\frac{b}{\delta}$    3.853               3.853               11.780     174.9     0
  ------------------------------------- --------- ----------------------------- ---------- --------- ------

Table 2: Lattice constants for 1-μm powder samples.

Figure 3: Zero-field-cooled magnetization (in emu/g) versus temperature
in a 10-Oe magnetic field for the various 1-μm particle size YBa₂Cu₃O₇
samples: (a) sample S1, parent powder; (b) sample S2, after only
bromination at 260 °C for $\frac{1}{2}$ h; (c) sample S3, after
deoxygenation at 450 °C for 4 h; (d) sample S4, after deoxygenation at
450 °C for 4 h and bromination at 260 °C for $\frac{1}{2}$ h; and (e)
sample S9, after deoxygenation at 450 °C for 4 h and reoxygenation under
O₂ flow at 560 °C for 4 h.

tion due to weakened coupling between grains within the particles, as
reported in Clem [19] and Moodenbaugh _et al._[20, 21] The presence of
small peaks due to such impurities were found in the x-ray diffraction
data for samples S1 and L1, but not for the parent material from which
M1 and M4 were derived.[13] From an inspection of the four
superconductivity parameters in Table 1, it can be seen for the 1-, 20-,
and 40-μm samples that superconductivity was reduced in the samples
deoxygenated at 450 ^(∘)C (S3, L2, and M2) and completely suppressed (at
least to T = 5 K) in the samples deoxygenated at 700-750 ^(∘)C (S5 and
L4). The value of T_(c) for the parent and deoxygenated samples can also
be used as a measure of the oxygen content in YBCO. For example, a
consideration of the accepted relationship between carrier concentration
(or oxygen content) and T_(c) for underdoped YBCO as provided by
Birgeneau and Shirane [22] indicated that the values assigned for the
oxygen content from the TGA measurements for the 1 and 20-μm samples (S3
and L2, respectively) were consistent, while that for the 40-μm sample
(M2) might be an underestimate by a small amount. Also, from Table 1, it
can be seen that a subsequent bromination of the deoxygenated samples
(S4, S6, L3, L5, and M3) resulted in partial restoration of the
superconductivity in agreement with results reported previously.[2, 3]
In particular, $T_{\rm max}$ and T_(c) returned essentially to the
parent values; however, (M/M_(p))₁₀ K returned to only a fraction of the
parent value. The degree of restoration was smaller for the samples
deoxygenated at higher temperature (700-750 ^(∘)C) and having lower
oxygen content. It is noteworthy that for the sample (S2) with no
deoxygenation prior to the bromination treatment, both the
superconducting transition temperature and fraction are essentially the
same as for the parent sample (S1). Finally, for the 30-μm samples which
underwent a long 24-h bromination, sample M5 with no deoxygenation prior
to bromination showed essentially no change in the superconducting
properties. However, sample M6 with prior deoxygenation showed a
somewhat lower transition temperature and a drastically reduced
superconducting fraction.

### ⁶³Cu and ⁶⁵Cu nuclear quadrupole resonance and nuclear magnetic
resonance

Detailed ^(63, 65)Cu NQR studies (18−34 MHz) have been previously
reported for nonbrominated YBa₂Cu₃O_(y) with the oxygen content ranging
from y = 7 −δ (superconducting phase) to y = 6 +δ (antiferromagnetic
phase).[23, 24, 25, 26, 27] In addition, ^(63, 65)Cu NMR studies also
exist for the antiferromagnetic phase[28, 29] over the frequency range
70−110 MHz. As described above, zero-field spin-echo NQR spectra were
obtained in this work at 4.2 K over the frequency range 19.0−33.0 MHz. A
series of spectra characteristic of the 1-μm particle size YBa₂Cu₃O_(y)
samples are presented in Fig. 4. Figure 4(a) shows the spectrum obtained
for the parent (y≈ 6.9) powder sample S1 which is characterized by two
pairs of peaks.[23, 27] One pair at 20.5 and 22.1 MHz, which is
attributed to ⁶⁵Cu and ⁶³Cu nuclei, respectively, results from the Cu(1)
atoms in the CuO chains having four nearest-neighbor atoms with two O(4)
atoms in the chains and two O(1) apical atoms. The second pair at 29.0
and 31.5 MHz, which is attributed to ⁶⁵Cu and ⁶³Cu nuclei, respectively,
results from the Cu(2) atoms in the CuO₂ planes. The Cu(2) atoms have
four nearest-neighbor oxygen atoms [two O(2) and two O(3)] and the
symmetry is axial. There is significant deviation from axial symmetry
for the Cu(1) atoms. Figure 4(b) shows the spectrum obtained from sample
S5 which was deoxygenated at 700 ^(∘)C for 4 h. It can be seen that the
pair of peaks at 20.5 and 22.1 MHz associated with the Cu(1) atoms shift
to 28.0 and 30.0 MHz, respectively. This is attributed to the two
nearest-neighbor O(4) chain atoms being removed during the deoxygenation
treatment.[23, 24] Furthermore, the pair of peaks at 29.0 and 31.5 MHz,
associated with the Cu(2) atoms, were observed in the 70−110 MHz range
at 1.3 K (see Fig. 5 and discussion below), which is consistent with
results reported previously for deoxygenated antiferromagnetic YBCO.[28,
29] Also, Cu(1) peaks associated with the occupation of three
nearest-neighbor oxygen sites [two O(1) and one O(4)] would appear in
the 23.0- and 25.0-MHz range. As noted in Fig. 4(b), measurements in
this range revealed no detectable signal indicating that the 700 ^(∘)C
deoxygenation essentially emptied the O(4) sites, one per unit cell.
Figure 4(c) shows the spectrum obtained from sample S6 which was
deoxygenated like sample S5 and brominated at 260 ^(∘)C for
$\frac{1}{2}$ h. At 260 ^(∘)C, and without the presence of bromine,
oxygen should not be able to return to the sample and restore the
superconducting state. To confirm

Figure 4: ^(63, 65)Cu spin-echo NQR spectra obtained at 4.2 K for
various 1-μm particle size YBa₂Cu₃O_(y) samples: (a) sample S1, parent
powder; (b) sample S5, after deoxygenation at 700 ^(∘)C for 4 h; (c)
sample S6, after deoxygenation at 700 ^(∘)C for 4 h and bromination at
260 ^(∘)C for $\frac{1}{2}$ h; (d) sample S2, after only bromination at
260 ^(∘)C for $\frac{1}{2}$ h; (e) sample S3, after deoxygenation at 450
^(∘)C for 4 h; and (f) sample S4, after deoxygenation at 450 ^(∘)C for 4
h and bromination at 260 ^(∘)C for $\frac{1}{2}$ h.

this, a deoxygenated YBCO sample was held at 260 ^(∘)C for $\frac{1}{2}$
h in the evacuated bromination chamber (without introducing Br). NQR
measurements before and after the treatment showed no change, i.e., the
spectra for samples S7 and S8 were identical. Bromination restores the
pair of peaks associated with the Cu(1) atoms to 20.5 and 22.1 MHz (four
nearest-neighbor oxygen atoms), suggesting that oxygen returns to the
O(4) chain sites. This could be due to redistribution of the oxygen in
the sample after the bromination treatment, and could account for the
partial restoration of superconductivity observed in the magnetometer
results (a model is presented in Sec. IV). In addition, there is a
reappearance of the pair of peaks at 29.0 and 31.5 MHz associated with
the Cu(2) atoms; however, their width is broadened and intensity is
significantly reduced relative to those in a typical YBCO superconductor
such as the parent sample S1. This suggests that the local coordination
around the Cu has been perturbed. Unlike the deoxygenated sample S5, no
Cu(2) peaks were observed in the 70-110 MHz range for the brominated
sample S6. Figure 4(d) shows the spectrum for sample S2, which was the
parent powder (S1) subjected only to the bromination treatment. It is
essentially identical to the spectrum for the parent sample S1, except
for a small broadening of the peaks. It can be seen that bromination
alone does not result in the severe reduction in the intensity of the
Cu(2) peaks.

Figure 4(e) shows the spectrum obtained on sample S3 which was
deoxygenated at 450 ^(∘)C for 4 h. The appearance of several weak and
broad peaks indicates the partial removal of oxygen. There are
^(65, 63)Cu peaks at 20.5 and 22.1 MHz attributed to Cu(1) atoms with
two O(4) nearest neighbors, and at 29.0 and 31.5 MHz attributed to Cu(2)
atoms when the two O(4) sites [second-near O(4) neighbors relative to
Cu(2)] are filled; this situation indicates regions of the sample where
the oxygen content is y = 7 − δ. There are also peaks at 28.0 and 30.0
MHz attributed to Cu(1) atoms with zero O(4) nearest neighbors,
characteristic of sample regions where y ≈ 6.0. In addition, there are
peaks in the 23.0 and 25.0 MHz range attributed to Cu(1) atoms with one
O(4) nearest-neighbor indicating sample regions with intermediate oxygen
content. Finally, Fig. 4(f) shows the spectrum obtained on sample S4
which was deoxygenated at 450 ^(∘)C like sample S3 and brominated at 260
^(∘)C for $\frac{1}{2}$ h. Again, it can be seen that bromination
restores the peaks to the parent (S1) values with the Cu(2) peaks being
broadened and significantly reduced in intensity.

Following deoxygenation at 700 ^(∘)C, sample S5 is antiferromagnetic.
The two ^(65, 63)Cu peaks attributed to Cu(2) atoms, that were present
at 29.0 and 31.5 MHz prior to deoxygenation are shifted to a higher
frequency range (70-110 MHz) as shown in Fig. 5. In agreement with
previously reported results for similarly deoxygenated samples, the
antiferromagnetic interaction results in a local hyperfine field at the
Cu(2) sites of 79.47 ± 0.04 kOe along with a quadrupolar splitting of
23.00 and 22.10 MHz for ⁶³Cu and ⁶⁵Cu, respectively.[28; 29] Upon
bromination (sample S6), these high frequency peaks completely
disappear. The spectra for three samples with different particle size,
S4 (1 μm), L3 (20 μm), and M3 (40 μm), are compared in Figs. 6(a), (b),
and (c), respectively. The three samples have undergone identical
deoxygenation (450 ^(∘)C for 4 h) and bromination (260 ^(∘)C for
$\frac{1}{2}$ h) treatments. As was the case for the 1-μm sample (S4)
described above, the Cu(1) and Cu(2) peaks returned to the parent values
upon bromination for both the 20-μm (L3) and 40-μm (M3) samples. Again,
the Cu(2) peaks were broadened and reduced in intensity. However, it can
be seen that, relative to the Cu(1) peaks, the Cu(2) peaks increased in
intensity as the particle size increased. As mentioned above,
magnetometry measurements of T_(c) indicated that the 40-μm sample was
slightly less deoxygenated (slightly larger oxygen content) than the 1
and 20-μm samples. The shapes of the Cu(2)

Figure 5: ^(63, 63)Cu zero-field spin-echo NMR spectra obtained at 1.3 K
for the 1-μm particle size YBa₂Cu₃O₃ sample (S5) after deoxygenation at
700 ^(∘)C for 4 h. The antiferromagnetic ordering results in a 79.47 ±
0.04 kOe hyperfine field at the Cu(2) sites along with the quadrupolar
splitting of 23.00 and 22.10 MHz for ⁶³Cu and ⁶⁵Cu, respectively.

Figure 6: ^(63, 63)Cu spin-echo NQR spectra obtained at 4.2 K for
various particle size YBa₂Cu₃O₃ samples after deoxygenation at 450 ^(∘)C
for 4 h and bromination at 260 ^(∘)C for $\frac{1}{2}$ h; (a) sample S4,
1 μm, (b) sample I.3, 20 μm, and (c) sample M3, 40 μm.

peaks for the various particle size samples also suggest the possibility
of a coexistence of a broad contribution from a component whose Cu(2)
environment has been perturbed and a sharp contribution reminiscent of
plane sites in a well-ordered superconductor.

### ⁷⁹Br and ⁸¹Br nuclear magnetic resonance

Figure 7 shows the (normalized) ^(79, 81)Br spin-echo NMR spectrum
obtained at room temperature (295 K) for the 1-μm particle size
YBa₂Cu₃O_(y) sample (S6), which was deoxygenated at 700 degC for 4 h and
brominated at 260 degC for ${}^{\frac{1}{2}}$. At 295 K, the sample is
in the normal state. For 52.84 MHz, the values for γ(⁷⁹Br) = 10.667
MHz/T and γ(⁸¹Br) = 11.498 MHz/T correspond to (unshifted) resonance
peaks at 4.953 T and 4.596 T, respectively. For comparison, the
corresponding ^(79, 81)Br NMR spectrum was measured for BaBr₂ powder
(see Fig. 7). The positions of the peaks for the two spectra are the
same; the accuracy of the measurement dictates that any NMR shift of the
sample relative to BaBr₂ is ≤0.06

### G. Br K-edge x-ray-absorption fine structure

Information concerning the local structure of bromine was obtained by
measurements of the Br K-edge XAFS on sample S6 as well as BaBr₂ powder.
Because the room-temperature and 200 K XAFS data on the Br showed very
weak modulations of the absorption, a commercially available Displex
refrigerator was used to cool the sample to 11 K, thus obtaining
satisfactory XAFS spectra over sufficiently wide k range. Data reduction
consisted of pre-edge and post-edge background subtraction,
step-normalization at the edge, extraction of the XAFS χ(k) function,
and subsequent Fourier transform (FT) from k to r space. The extraction
of χ(k) and the FT spectra were performed using the autobk and feffit
routines, respectively, in the twxAFS 3.0 package.³⁰ Figure 8 shows a
comparison of the k-weighted χ(k) function of Br obtained at 11 K for
sample S6 and the BaBr₂ standard. The photoelectron wave vector k is
given by k=[2m(E − E₀)]^(1/2)/ℏ, where E is the energy of the x-ray
photon, E₀ is the threshold energy, and m is the mass of the electron.
Five individual scans were averaged for sample S6 and two scans were
averaged for BaBr₂ to improve the signal-to-noise ratio. The primary
frequency oscillations for sample S6 and the BaBr₂ are in phase,
suggesting that the immediate near-neighbor environment around Br in
sample S6 is similar to that of BaBr₂. The intensity of the oscillations
is much larger for BaBr₂ compared to sample S6 throughout the entire k
range. Due to the backscattering nature of the atoms surrounding Br in
BaBr₂, the XAFS signal also has a minimum near 4.5 A⁻¹ (see Fig. 8). At
room temperature, the thermal excitation of the lattice vibrations in
BaBr₂ is substantial due to the low Debye temperature³¹ and contributes
to the large thermal disorder which causes the XAFS signal to dampen
significantly. This factor contributes to a significant reduction in the
XAFS signal beyond 4.5 A⁻¹ for sample S6 at room temperature as well.
However, at 11 K, the only contribution to thermal disorder comes from
the zero-point motion, and appreciable signal out to larger k values (∼8
A⁻¹) can be obtained. The reduction in amplitude of the XAFS
oscillations for sample S6 compared to BaBr₂ shown in Fig. 8 can be due
to either disorder, σ², or reduction in the coordination number.
Disorder enters into the XAFS expression as a decay term, exp (−2k²σ²),
while the coordination number has no k dependence. The large reduction
in the XAFS amplitude throughout the entire k range suggests that the
average coordination number around Br in sample S6 is smaller than that
in BaBr₂. Also, it can be seen that the high-frequency modulations
(indicated by arrows in Fig. 8), which arise due to contributions from
relatively long scattering paths (both single scattering as well as
multiple scattering), are much weaker in sample S6 when compared to
BaBr₂. This suggests that the contributions of the longer scattering
paths are diminished in brominated YBCO.

A quantitative analysis of the XAFS spectra is obtained by Fourier
transformation. Figures 9(a) and 9(b) show the magnitude and imaginary
part of the k-weighted FT spectra,

Figure 8: Comparison of the Br K-edge XAFS, kχ(k), taken at 11 K: (a)
BaBr₂ (solid line) and (b) sample S6 (broken line), 1-μm particle size
YBCO, after deoxygenation at 700 °C for 4 h and bromination at 260 °C
for ${}^{\frac{1}{2}}$ h.

Figure 7: ^(79, 81)Br spin-echo NMR spectra obtained at 295 K for fixed
frequency ν= 52.84 MHz: (×) BaBr₂ powder, (O) sample S6, 1-μm particle
size YBa₂Cu₃O_(y) after deoxygenation at 700 °C for 4 h and bromination
at 260 °C for ${}^{\frac{1}{2}}$ h.

respectively, for both sample S6 and BaBr₂ at 11 K. The general
appearance of the FT spectra are similar out to ∼4.5 A, clearly
illustrating that the local environment around Br is similar. The peak
heights for BaBr₂ are much larger than for sample S6. If Br precipitates
as small particles of BaBr₂ in brominated YBCO, a reduction in peak
heights can be expected. Br atoms on the surface of the small
precipitates have a smaller number of near neighbors, resulting in
reduced coordination number. Under favorable conditions, detailed
fitting analysis of the XAFS spectra (including information up to the
third or fourth coordination shell) can be utilized to determine the
size and morphology of the precipitate.[32] In BaBr₂, Br occupies two
inequivalent sites with a large distribution of neighboring Br-Ba and
Br-Br distances about each site as tabulated in Brackett _et al.[33]_
The information that can be extracted from the XAFS spectra by nonlinear
fitting to standards is governed by Brillouin’s theorem, and
consequently the XAFS data is bandwidth limited.[34] Due to the
complexity of the local structure surrounding Br in BaBr₂, a detailed
fitting of the XAFS of Br in brominated YBCO would require too many
adjustable variables and hence would be indeterminate. A reasonable
estimate from the diminution of the peak heights in the FT spectra
suggests that the particle size is in the 10-20 A range. In a
neutron-diffraction study of Br-doped YBCO, Mokhtari _et al.[4]_
suggested that Br occupies the vacant O(4) sites in the YBCO lattice. As
mentioned earlier, room-temperature measurements show negligible signal
past ∼4.5 A⁻¹. Br in the O(4) sites will be coordinated to the Cu, Y,
and Ba atoms of the YBCO lattice. These elements are strong
backscatterers of the photoelectrons in the high k region. Hence the
absence of signal past ∼4.5 A⁻¹ in the room-temperature data reveals
that no Br atoms occupy the YBCO lattice. An inspection of the
neutron-diffraction data and analysis shows that the possibility of
BaBr₂ precipitates was not included in the Reitveld refinement.[4]
Furthermore, our XAFS data suggest that the precipitates are small and
hence may be difficult to detect in the diffraction data. It should be
noted that the element-specific nature of the XAFS technique reveals the
local structure around the Br atoms exclusively and is insensitive to
long-range order. This allows it to complement the results of any
conventional diffraction techniques in such complex and important
materials.

## IV Discussion and conclusions

In this work, deoxygenated and brominated YBa₂Cu₃O₇ powder with 1-, 20-,
30-, and 40-μm particle size were studied using [63, 65]Cu NQR and NMR,
[79, 81]Br NMR, and Br _K_-edge XAFS measurement techniques. The samples
were characterized with a combination of XRD, TGA, and SQUID
magnetometry. TGA measurements on bulk YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) indicated that a
nominal oxygen content of y = 6.6, 6.3, 6.2, and 6.1 results when the
deoxygenation is carried out for 4 h at 450, 550, 650, and 700 degC,
respectively, as a consequence of oxygen atoms leaving the O(4) sites.
Estimates for the oxygen content in the powder samples after
deoxygenation, which were obtained from the XRD and magnetometry
measurements, are consistent with the above results on bulk specimens.
There was an indication that the larger particle size sample (40 μm) has
a slightly larger oxygen content after deoxygenation at 450 degC than
the 1- and 20-μm samples. Also, as indicated by XRD and SQUID
magnetometry measurements, the orthorhombic YBCO structure becomes more
tetragonal and the superconductivity is suppressed after deoxygenation.
Upon bromination, the YBCO structure is returned from the tetragonal
phase to the orthorhombic phase with superconductivity being partially
restored. All of the above characteristics are consistent with previous
studies.[1, 2, 3, 4]

A microscopic picture of the deoxygenation/bromination process was
obtained from the [63, 65]Cu NQR and NMR spectra for the various
samples. For the 1-μm particle size YBa₂Cu₃O_(y) powder deoxygenated at
700 degC for 4 h, the pair of peaks at 20.5 and 22.1 MHz, which is
attributed to [65]Cu and [63]Cu nuclei, respectively, and results from
the Cu(1) atoms in the CuO chains, is completely shifted to 28.0 and
30.0 MHz. Furthermore, a second pair of peaks at 29.0 and 31.5 MHz,
which is attributed to [65]Cu and [63]Cu nuclei, respectively, and
results from the Cu(2) atoms in the planes, is observed in the 70-110
MHz range. These results indicate that for 700 degC, the deoxygenation
is essentially complete and approximately one O(4) atom is removed per
YBCO unit cell [two of the four nearest neighbors for Cu(1)].
Deoxygenation at 450 degC results in a partial removal of the O(4) atoms
as indicated by the presence of Cu(1) and Cu(2) peaks characteristic of
both "fully deoxygenated" (_y_ = 6 + _d_) and "fully oxygenated" (_y_ =
7 - _d_) YBCO as well as peaks characteristic of intermediate oxygen
content in the 23-25 MHz range. Bromination at 260 degC for
$\frac{1}{2}$ h restores the Cu(1) and Cu(2) peaks for the fully
deoxygenated and partially

Figure 9: Comparison of Fourier transform of _k_χ(_k_) for the Br
_K_-edge XAFS taken at 11 K, for BaBr₂ (solid line) and YBCO after
deoxygenation and bromination (sample S6) (broken line): (a) modulus and
(b) imaginary part.

deoxygenated (_y_ 6.6) 1-_m_ YBCO powder to the frequencies associated
with the fully oxygenated parent powder. However, the heights of the
plane Cu(2) peaks are diminished relative to the chain Cu(1) peaks in
the brominated samples compared to those in the parent material. This
suggests that there may be a distortion in the local structure near the
Cu(2) sites. Furthermore, the shape of the Cu(2) peaks in the NQR
spectra also suggests the possibility of a coexistence of a broad
contribution from a component whose Cu(2) environment has been perturbed
and a sharp contribution reminiscent of the plane sites in a
well-ordered parent material. Similar results were obtained for the 20-
and 40-_m_m particle size samples, i.e., bromination restored the Cu(1)
and Cu(2) NQR peaks to the parent peak frequency values. However, the
Cu(2) peaks exhibited an increase in height relative to the Cu(1) peaks
with increased particle size. The restoration of the Cu(1) and Cu(2)
spectra is attributed to oxygen being returned to (rather than bromine
entering into) the O(4) chain sites of the YBCO structure. It is evident
that the equilibrium bromine procedure employed in this work uses a
temperature (260 degC) which is too low and/or a time ($\frac{1}{2}$ h)
which is too short for oxygenation to occur without the presence of
bromine. The spectra obtained from previously deoxygenated samples
before and after a $\frac{1}{2}$ h treatment at 260 degC (without the
introduction of bromine) were essentially the same; there was no
restoration of the Cu(1) and Cu(2) peaks. The similarity of the two
spectra indicates negligible intergranular mobility at this temperature
(260 degC) in YBCO.[35, 36] This result underscores the importance of
bromine in the creation of the proper conditions for the restoration of
the ^(63, 65)Cu NQR spectrum and, correspondingly, the
superconductivity. Finally, a comparison of the NQR spectra for a fully
oxygenated parent material before and after bromination revealed no
significant differences, indicating that the bromination procedure has
little or no effect on the fully oxygenated YBCO material.

Additional evidence for the kinds of reactions occurring and the
products formed during the bromination procedure is provided by the
low-temperature XAFS measurements of the Br K-edge for the deoxygenated
and brominated 1-_m_m YBCO powder sample. These results demonstrate that
Br does not occupy any detectable number of sites within the YBCO
lattice, either as a substitutional or an interstitial atom. Instead,
there is a precipitation of nanoscale-size particles of BaBr₂. This is
also supported by the ^(79, 81)Br NMR results which show that the local
environment surrounding the Br in the deoxygenated and brominated 1-_m_m
YBCO sample is similar to that in BaBr₂ powder. Since the NQR for copper
is broadened and distorted, further efforts to explore the local
distribution about the Cu site using XAFS are currently underway. In an
attempt to draw out the phase products which are produced during the
bromination treatment, a deoxygenated sample was brominated at 260 degC
for an extended time (24 h). The XRD spectra from this sample revealed a
broad amorphouslike peak appearing in the 25deg-35deg range (Cu Kα
radiation) which could be attributed to BaBr₂ with small particle size.
Also, a strong peak appears at 35.5deg which is consistent with the most
intense peak of tenorite (CuO). The magnetometer results for
field-dependent magnetization indicate the corresponding appearance of a
small paramagnetic component upon prolonged bromination. Likely
candidates for a paramagnetic reaction product whose strongest
x-ray-diffraction peaks would also appear in the 25deg−35deg range would
be CuO, Y₂O₃, and BaCuO₂.[37]

A sequence of events may now be proposed which describes the changes
observed upon bromination in deoxygenated YBCO. The bromine creates a
local decomposition of the deoxygenated YBCO (Ref. [38]) and, in the
process, reacts with barium to form barium bromide precipitates with
nano-scale dimensions. As a consequence of the decomposition reaction,
oxygen is liberated, which is then available to re-oxygenate the local
regions of deoxygenated YBCO that have not undergone decomposition and,
in doing so, partially restores superconductivity. The presence of a low
density of very small local regions of decomposition would explain the
reduction in the critical current for the brominated YBCO compared to
the parent material. Very recently, experimental studies of Goren _et
al.[39]_ indicated that the halogens F and Cl enter the YBCO lattice in
compounds prepared using NF₃ and CCl₄, respectively, diluted in N₂. They
suggest that for diluted gaseous bromine compounds, where reaction
conditions are milder than in the direct reaction with Br₂, the bromine
may be able to enter the YBCO lattice.

## Acknowledgments

We wish to acknowledge useful discussions with Ch. Bernhard, W. G.
Clark, D. M. Pease, H. B. Radousky, R. Stern, R. E. Walstedt, and Y. D.
Zhang. We wish to thank M. Daniel for assistance with XAFS measurements
and AFR, Inc. for collaboration in the initial bromination experiments.
The work at the University of Connecticut received funding from
Connecticut Critical Technologies Grant No. CII(93G049), Department of
Energy Grant No. DE-FG05-89-ER45384, and, in the initial stages of
experimentation, from AFOSR-SBIR Grant No. F49620-93-C-0010. Research at
Brookhaven is supported by the U.S. Department of Energy, Office of
Basic Energy Sciences, Division of Materials Sciences, under Contract
No. DE-AC02-98-CH10886.

## References

* (1) E. B. Amitin, N. V. Bausck, S. A. Gromilov, S. G. Kozlova, N. K.
Moroz, L. N. Mazalov, V. N. Naumov, P. P. Samoilov, S. A. Slobodjan, M.
A. Starikov, V. E. Fedorov, G. I. Frolova, and S. B. Erenburg, Physica C
**209**, 407 (1993). * (2) H. B. Radousky, R. S. Glass, P. A. Hahn, M.
J. Fluss, R. G. Meisenheimer, B. P. Bonner, C. I. Mertzbacher, E. M.
Larson, K. D. McKeegan, J. C. O’Brien, J. L. Peng, R. N. Shelton, and K.
F. McCarty, Phys. Rev. B **41**, 11 140 (1990). * (3) P. P. Nguyen, Z.
H. Wang, A. M. Rao, M. S. Dresselhaus, J. S. Moodera, G. Dresselhaus, H.
B. Radousky, R. S. Glass, and J. Z. Liu, Phys. Rev. B **48**, 1148
(1993). * (4) M. Mokhtari, C. Perrin, M. Sergent, E. Furet, J. F. Halet,
J. Y. Saillard, E. Ressouche, and P. Burlet, Solid State Commun. **93**,
487 (1995). * [5] D. B. Fenner, J. I. Budnick, D. M. Potrepka, Q. Li, P.
A. Rosenthal, J. Luo, and W. D. Hamblen, IEEE Trans. Appl. Supercond.
**5**, 3397 (1995). * [6] D. M. Potrepka, M. Balasubramanian, D. B.
Fenner, W. A. Hines, and J. I. Budnick, Appl. Phys. Lett. **73**, 1137
(1998). * [7] M. Mokhtari, C. Perrin, O. Pena, and M. Sargent, Physica C
**202**, 141 (1992). * [8] Contract No. F49620-93-C-0010, from DOD-BMDO,
administered by AFOSR, technical monitor Dr. Harold Weinstock, work at
Advanced Fuel Research, East Hartford, Connecticut, principal
investigator D. B. Fenner. * [9] Y. Fukuda, N. Sanada, Y. Suzuki, T.
Goto, M. Nagoshi, Y. Syono, and M. Tachiki, Phys. Rev. B **47**, 418
(1993). * [10] E. Kemnitz, T. Olesh, N. Pruss, A. Simon, H. Mattausch,
R. K. Kremer, and W. Bauhofer, Mater. Res. Bull. **25**, 1019 (1990). *
[11] E. Faulques, P. Mahot, M. Spiesser, T. P. Nguyen, G. Garz, C.
Gonzalez, and P. Molinie, Phys. Rev. B **50**, 1209 (1994). * [12] D. E.
Cox, A. R. Moodenbaugh, J. J. Hurst, and R. H. Jones, J. Phys. Chem.
Solids **49**, 47 (1988). * [13] D. M. Potrepka, Ph.D. thesis,
University of Connecticut, 1998. * [14] J. C. Ford, Ph.D. thesis,
University of Connecticut, 1988. * [15] D. Brewe, Ph.D. thesis,
University of Connecticut, 1993. * [16] W. Wong-Ng, H. McMurdie, B.
Paretzkin, C. Hubbard, and A. Dragoo, Powder Diffraction File No.
38-1433, JCPDS-International Center for Diffraction Data, Newtown
Square, PA (1987). * [17] P. K. Gallagher, H. M. O’Bryan, S. A.
Sunshine, and D. W. Murphy, Mater. Res. Bull. **22**, 995 (1987). * [18]
R. J. Cava, A. W. Hewatt, E. A. Hewat, B. Batlogg, M. Marezio, K. M.
Rabe, J. J. Krajewski, W. F. Peck, Jr., and L. W. Rupp, Jr., Physica C
**165**, 419 (1990). * [19] J. R. Clem, Physica C **153-155**, 50
(1988). * [20] A. R. Moodenbaugh, U. Wildgruber, Y. L. Wang, and Y. Xu,
Physica C **245**, 347 (1995). * [21] A. R. Moodenbaugh, L. H. Lewis,
and S. Soman, Physica C **290**, 98 (1997). * [22] R. J. Birgeneau and
G. Shirane, _Physical Properties of High Temperature Superconductors I_,
edited by D. M. Ginsburg (World Scientific, Singapore, 1989), p. 151. *
[23] A. J. Vega, W. E. Farneth, E. M. McCarron, and R. K. Bordia, Phys.
Rev. B **39**, 322 (1989). * [24] H. Litzgemeier, Physica C **153-155**,
95 (1988). * [25] I. Heinmaa, H. Lutgemeier, S. Pekker, G. Krabbes, and
M. Buchgeister, Appl. Magn. Reson. **3**, 689 (1992). * [26] M. Mali, D.
Brinkmann, L. Pauli, J. Roos, H. Zimmerman, and J. Hulliger, Phys. Lett.
A **124**, 112 (1987). * [27] C. P. Poole, Jr., H. A. Farach, and R. J.
Creswick, _Superconductivity_ (Academic, San Diego, 1995). * [28] H.
Yasuoka, T. Shimizu, Y. Ueda, and K. Kosuge, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **57**,
2659 (1988). * [29] P. Mendels and H. Alloul, Physica C **156**, 355
(1988). * [30] E. A. Stern, D. F. Sayers, and F. W. Lytle, Phys. Rev. B
**11**, 4836 (1975). * [31] S. Peng and G. Grimvall, J. Phys. Chem.
Solids **55**, 707 (1994). * [32] R. B. Greeger and F. W. Lytle, J.
Catal. **63**, 476 (1980). * [33] E. B. Brackett, T. E. Brackett, and R.
L. Sass, J. Phys. Chem. **67**, 2132 (1963). * [34] E. A. Stern, Phys.
Rev. B **48**, 9825 (1993). * [35] G. W. Morris, E. J. Tomlinson, R. E.
Somekh, Z. H. Barber, E. J. Williams, M. P. Ray, and J. E. Evetts, IEEE
Trans. Magn. **27**, 1430 (1991). * [36] W. E. McKinnon, M. L. Post, L.
S. Selwyn, and G. Pleiaier, Phys. Rev. B **38**, 6543 (1988). * [37] H.
M. Seyoum, M. Melamud, W. Wong-Ng, L. H. Bennett, L. J. Swartzendruber,
L. Cook, and H. J. Brown, J. Appl. Phys. **81**, 4244 (1997). * [38] M.
Mokhtari, O. Pena, A. Perrin, and M. Sergent, Mater. Lett. **13**, 241
(1992). * [39] S. D. Goren, L. Frenkel Ben-Yakar, A. Shames, B.
Pandyopadhayay, C. Korn, H. Shaked, P. Massiot, C. Perrin, J. Gallier,
and A. Privalov, Physica C **313**, 127 (1999).
