# Crossover in temperature dependence of penetration depth λ(T)

in superconducting YBa2Cu3O7-b films

Ju Young Lee

Kathleen M. Paget

Thomas R. Lemberger

Department of Physics, The Ohio State University, Columbus, Ohio 43210

Steve R. Foltyn

Los Alamos National Laboratory, Los Alamos, New Mexico 87545

Xindi Wu

Los Alamos National Laboratory, Los Alamos, New Mexico 87545

25 June 1993

###### Abstract

The _ab_-plane penetration depth λ(T) in twinned YBa2Cu3O7-b films
exhibits a crossover in its T dependence at 25 K. Below 25 K,
δλ ≡ λ(T) − λ(0) ∝ T². This differs from recent measurements on a
crystal which find δλ ∝ T below 40 K. Above 25 K, the normalized data
λ(T/T_(c))/λ(0) vs T/T_(c) for our films agree extremely well with the
crystal data, including quasilinear behavior between 25 and 40 K.
Differences and similarities of films and crystals agree well with a
theory of slightly disordered _d_-wave superconductors.

The average magnetic penetration depth λ(T) of the _ab_ plane of twinned
YBa2Cu3O7-b samples has been studied often, but many issues remain
unresolved. There is general agreement on the value λ(0) = 1450 A±150 A
for the _ab_ plane of fully oxygenated YBa2Cu3O7-b, from muon spin
rotation measurements on bulk samples.1-4 Until recently, a consensus
was developing that λ⁻²(T)/λ⁻²(0) − 1 at T <  T_(c) was close to T² for
pure YBa2Cu3O7-b, based primarily upon studies of films.5-11 There was
no agreement about the magnitude of the T² term,7,11 however, or about
the T dependence of λ over the entire range from 4 K to T_(c). Indeed,
most clean films5-8,10 show λ⁻²(T)/λ⁻²(0) ≈ 1 − (T/T_(c))² over this
range, but some9,11,12 (all on substrates other than SrTiO3) show an
inflection point in λ⁻²(T)/λ⁻²(0). Annett, Goldenfeld, and Renn7
emphasized that the T² behavior could result from weak disorder in a
d_(x² − x²) superconductor, which would have T-linear behavior in the
absence of disorder.

Into this unsettled situation came recently a report that
λ⁻²(T)/λ⁻²(0) − 1 ∝ T from 4 to 40 K in fully oxygenated d twinned
YBa2Cu3O7-b crystals,13 thus giving new impetus to the _d_-wave
conjecture of Annett, Goldenfeld, and Renn7 and motivating the present
work. The theoretical sensitivity of _d_-wave superconductors to small
amounts of disorder14-17 immediately suggests this as an explanation of
at least some of the reported sample-to-sample variations in λ for
nominally identical pure YBa2Cu3O7-b samples. Of course, some variation
may occur for other reasons, e.g., because macroscopic defects like
grain boundaries might affect films more than crystals. In this paper,
we show that our new data and much of the apparently conflicting data in
the literature on YBa2Cu3O7-b films and crystals can be unified within
the context of _d_-wave superconductivity. Moreover, in demonstrating
this agreement, we show that the inductive response of films is
primarily that of the grains and not the grain boundaries.

We present here measurements of λ(T) from 4 K to T_(c) for three fully
oxygenated YBa2Cu3O7-b films. We show that the data are in excellent
agreement from 4 K to T_(c) with earlier, less precise, measurements
made with a similar inductive technique on films made by a different
process. We show that when film and crystal data are normalized as
indicated by _d_-wave theory, they are in excellent agreement with each
other above a crossover temperature of T^(*) ≈ 25 K. We show that the
qualitative and quantitative differences between films and crystals
below the 25 K crossover are quantitatively explained if
superconductivity is d wave and there is a slight residual disorder in
the films that is absent in the crystals.

Our three films, A, B, and C are made by laser ablation of a
stoichiometric sintered target onto (100) SrTiO3 substrates, and they
have their c axes perpendicular to the substrate. They are circular with
diameters of 2.2 cm for films A and C and 2.0 cm for film B. All three
film thicknesses are d = 330 ± 30 A. Superconducting transitions are 1 K
wide near 88 K.

We determine λ(T) from the mutual inductance M(T) of concentric
solenoidal coils on opposite sides of, and concentric with, each
circular sample film, similar to Fiory _et al._5 and Jeanneret _et
al._,18 but with solenoidal rather than counterwound coils. The primary
coil comprises 84 turns of Cu wire; it is 3 mm long with inner and outer
diameters of 3 and 7 mm. The secondary coil has the same dimensions as
the primary coil, but comprises 300 turns of finer Cu wire. The film and
substrate slip into a 2 mm gap between the coils. The inductive and
dissipative parts of M are the voltages in the secondary circuit,
divided by _Io_, at ϕ = 0^(∘) and ϕ = 90^(∘) relative to the sinusoidal
current I at angular frequency o in the primary circuit.

We checked that M was independent of the amplitude I and frequency of
the current in the primary coil. Most data were taken at 20 kHz; data at
10 and 30 kHz were identical. M was independent of I when I was varied
such that the maximum supercurrent density induced in the film ranged
from 0.004 to 0.04 MA/cm2. Most data were taken at the larger current.
The magnetic field at the larger current was less than 1 mG
perpendicular to the film, even at the film edges, and less than 0.2 G
parallel to the film, so one would not expect the field to induce
vortices. At 4.2 K, dissipation appears when the induced current density
exceeds 106 and 107 A/cm2 for films A and B, respectively. Based on a
subsequent oxygen-depletion study of these films,19 in which a small (<1
mm diam) spot of film A detached from the substrate after annealing at
300 degC in Ar, we believe that the lower critical current density of A
was from this defective spot, and not symptomatic of the entire film.
The close agreement between films A and B suggests that the defective
spot is negligible at the low experiment current densities.

The numerical model6,10,18 relates the magnitude and phase of _M_(_T_)
to the conductivity _s_(_T_) = s1(_T_) + s2(_T_) of the film by solving
Maxwell’s equations for the vector potential at each loop of the
secondary coil due to the current in the primary coil and the induced
currents in the film. The cylindrical symmetry of the apparatus
simplifies the analysis considerably. The induced current density in the
film is largest where the film is closest to the primary coil. It
decreases rapidly toward the film edge, then just at the edge there is a
much smaller peak. More than 2 K below T_(c), _s_(_T_) = s2(_T_) is
purely inductive in our films, and we define λ⁻²= m0_0s0_2_(_m_0 = 4p x
10-7 H/m). Finally, the model allows for stray coupling between the
primary and secondary circuits. For reference, the inductive and
dissipative parts of _M_(_T_) for film A are shown in Fig. 1. Note the
sharp transition and the very rapid and large attenuation of M by the
superconducting film within a few K below T_(c).

While we use the full numerical model to obtain l from M, for purposes
of this discussion we introduce an approximate relationship between l
and M, which is accurate to better than 1

$$M(T) = \alpha\lambda(T){\rm{coth}}[d/\lambda(T)] + \beta\ .$$

The geometric constant a is calculated to +-5

While the measured signal is proportional to l + _2, the important
microscopic quantity is the superfluid density, r_(t)(_T_) < l -
_2(_T_), so the analysis will focus on l - _2. It is useful to note that
if l2(_T_) - l2(0) < T2, then l - _2(_T_) - l - _2(0) T2 and l _l_ =
_l_(_T_) - _l_(0) T2, i.e., all such quantities have the same dependence
on T. Plots of l - _2(_T_) or our three films are shown in Fig. 2, along
with data on a twinned crystal.13 Table I lists the parameters that
characterize data.

There are three important points to be made here in connection with the
uncertainty in b. First, determination of _l_(4 K) to, say, +10

Figure 1: The mutual inductance of the primary and secondary coils, M vs
T, with film A inserted between them. (a) Inductive (upper) and
dissipative (lower) components of M near T_(c). (b) Magnified view of
the inductive component of M at lower temperatures. The resistive
component of M is zero.

Second, despite the uncertainty in b, the value of l -2(_T_) near T_(c)
is known unambiguously because as T approaches T_(c), M l2 diverges and
the uncertainty in b is negligible. Hence, our observation that l -2
near T_(c) is only about 20

There are two sources of uncertainty. First, the +-10

The first goal of the analysis is to show that there exists a choice of
b within experimental uncertainty that brings our results into excellent
agreement with those of Hardy _et al._13 for YBa2Cu3O7-_b_ crystals in
the context of _d_-wave superconductivity. Note that our attempt to
unify different experimental results differs from previous studies which
focused on bringing measurements into agreement with theoretical and
phenomenological expressions. There are many reasons why l deduced from
microwave measurements13 on crystals at 1 GHz might differ from l
deduced from inductance measurement on films at 20 kHz, e.g., a greater
influence of grain boundaries in films. However, it is noteworthy that
both techniques measure, essentially, the inductance s2 of the
superconducting electrons because dissipation due to s1 is extremely
small even at 1 GHz, and that films and the crystal of Ref. 13 are
twinned so that both experiments measure averages of s2 in the _ab_
plane. Therefore, the excellent agreement that we find between films and
the crystal is _a posteriori_ justification of our assumption that both
experiments probe the same physics, namely, the intrinsic superfluid
density r_(s)(_T_) of the _ab_ plane of YBa2Cu3O7-_b_.

To be specific about the agreement, when b is chosen for film a such
that _l_(0) = 1700 **A**, then the normalized data, l -2(_T_/_T__c_)/_l_
-2(0), is identical to 1.08l -2(_T_/_T__c_)/_l_ -2(0) for the crystal
above 25 K (Fig. 3). _l_(0) for the crystal is taken to be1-4 1400
**A**. [The microwave measurements determine _l_(_T_) - _l_(0), and one
must choose _l_(0) to obtain l -2(_T_).] The extremely small difference,
upper panel of Fig. 3, equals the uncertainty in digitizing and
interpolating the crystal data. We believe that it is highly unlikely
that the film and microwave measurements are probing different physics,
and that the agreement is accidental. Films B and C exhibit similarly
good agreement. Deduced film parameters T_(c), _l_(0), and the curvature
c2 appear in Table **I**. We emphasize the excellent agreement between
25 and 40 K, where the crystal data are clearly linear in T. A close
examination of the derivative, _d_l_ -2/_dT_, indicates quasilinear
behavior in the films as well. **A** discussion of this point, the
fitting procedure, and other details can be found in Ref. 10. Finally,
given the fitted values of _l_(0) for each film, Fig. 2 shows the
unnormalized data and demonstrates that there is good film-to-film
reproducibility.

The unusual normalization needed to bring the film and crystal data into
coincidence is predicted in the theory of _d_-wave superconductivity.14
In theory, l -2(_T_) T at _T_/_T__c_ <<1 reflects the linear dependence
of the "clean-limit" _d__x_2-_y_2 density of states, N_(s)(_E_), on
energy E for 0.3l0. If the cross section for scattering from point
disorder is near the unitarity limit, then disorder creates an "impurity
band" in N_(s)(_E_) centered at

  -------- ----------- ------------ ------ --------------
   Sample   T_(c) (K)     _λ_(0)      c0    1/_c_2 (±5%)
     A        87.5      1700 ±50 Å   0.32       1.07
     B        88.3      1710 ±50 Å   0.33       0.95
     C        86.7      1630 ±50 Å   0.26       1.02
  -------- ----------- ------------ ------ --------------

Table 1: T_(c), _λ_(0), c0, and 1/_c_2 for YBa2Cu3O7-_β_ films A, B, and
C. _λ_(0) is the penetration depth for the _ab_ plane, _2c2 is the
curvature of l -2(_T_/_T__c_)/_l_ -2(0) as _T_/_T__c_ -0; c0 is the
fractional reduction in _λ_ -2(0) in the films relative to _λ_ -2(0) =
(1400 Å)−2 in the crystal of Ref. 13.

E = 0 by removing states from the logarithmic peak in N_(s) near Δ₀.[15]
The number of states in the impurity band is proportional to the
scattering rate Γ; the height N_(s)(0) and width E^(•) of the impurity
band are proportional to $\sqrt{\Gamma}$. At high temperatures,
kT > E^(•), the T dependence of λ⁻² is largely determined by the T
dependence of the order parameter Δ₀(T) and the high-energy structure in
N_(s)(E), and the impurity band serves only to reduce λ⁻² slightly below
its clean-limit value. At low temperatures, kT < E^(•), most thermal
excitations are in the impurity band, so the T dependence of λ⁻² is
altered dramatically from the clean limit. In other words, the
qualitative prediction of theory is that clean and gently disordered
materials should have the same T dependences above a crossover
temperature when the experimental data for λ⁻² are normalized to have
the same slope near T_(c), not when normalized to their respective
values at T = 0. The 8

This agreement is robust. We obtain similarly good agreement for any
choice of λ(0) for crystals in the accepted range from 1300 to 1700 A.
The corresponding "best fit" values of λ(0) for films A and B range from
1630 +- 50 A to 1880 +- 55 A. Thus, our analysis finds that λ(0) values
for films A and B are not less than 15

We have compared our films with published data[6] on two 500 A and one
2000 A thick films of YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) made by codeposition and
postannealing onto SrTiO₃ and LaAlO₃ substrates. Assuming that these
authors actually determined λ(T)coth [d/λ(T)] − λ(0)coth [d/λ(0)] and
then obtained λ(T) effectively by assuming a value for λ(0), we can
report their data for other choices of λ(0). Their results agree with
ours, within their noise which is several times larger than ours, when
their values of λ(0), obtained from a best-fit to BCS, are adjusted
upward from 1500, 1660, and 2100 A to 1770, 1910, and 2700 A,
respectively.[10] While the large value λ(0) = 2700 A suggests that
disorder in this film is much larger than in the other films, the other
two films clearly behave in all respects very much like our three films.

Having shown that several films from different laboratories agree with
each other and with a crystal, when compared in the framework of d-wave
superconductivity, we now turn to a quantitative analysis of the
differences at low T. Hirschfeld and Goldenfeld[14] have calculated the
effects of slight disorder on λ⁻²(0) and the curvature in
λ⁻²(T)/λ⁻²(0) − 1 at T< < T_(c). They neglect complications like
dispersion along the c axis, localized states, a Van Hove singularity in
the normal-state density of states, and the possible influence of
disorder on normal-state parameters like the charge-carrier density and
the spectrum of antiferromagnetic spin fluctuations. The theory is
insensitive to its approximations when the penetration depth λ(T) in the
disordered material is normalized to the clean-limit penetration depth
at T = 0, λ₀.

Specifically, at T/T_(c)< < 1 and small disorder,
γ< < Δ₀[γ ≈ 0.63(ΓΔ₀)^(1/2)], theory predicts that disorder decreases
λ⁻²(0) and decreases the curvature in λ⁻²(T):

$$\frac{\lambda_{0}^{2}}{\lambda^{2}(T)} = 1 - \frac{2\gamma}{\pi\Delta_{0}}\ln\left[\frac{4\Delta_{0}}{\gamma}\right]-\frac{\pi}{3\Delta_{0}\gamma}T^{2}$$
(2)
$$= 1 - c_{0} - \frac{\pi}{3\Delta_{0}\gamma}T^{2}$$

and

$$\frac{\lambda^{2}(0)}{\lambda^{2}(T/T_{c})} = 1 - \frac{\pi T_{c}^{2}}{3\Delta_{0}\gamma(1-c_{0})}\frac{T^{2}}{T_{c}^{2}}$$
(3)
$$= 1 - c_{2}\frac{T^{2}}{T_{c}^{2}}\ .$$

Equation (2) up to 40 K, which requires that N_(s)(E) is linear in E up
to about k × 100 K, which requires that the logarithmic singularity in
N_(s)(E) occurs near k × 270 K ≈3kT_(c).[20] The three data points from
our films are in excellent agreement with the theory curves with γ/Δ₀≈
0.15 (see top scale in Fig. 4). (The crystal data would be at c₀ = 1/c₂
= 0. The infinite curvature, 1/c₂ = 0, for the crystal means that the
low-T parabolic behavior is as sharp as the vertex of a triangle.) In
other words, the low-T curvature in λ⁻² corresponds quantitatively to
the deduced suppression in superfluid density. Moreover, the scattering
rate Γ found from γ is quite small, Γ ≈ 0.2kT_(c) /ℏ, consistent with a
small residual resistivity of about 20

In conclusion, λ(T) data in our laser-ablated films of YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ)
agree with published data on films made differently. They quantitatively
agree with data on a crystal[13] within the framework of a microscopic
theory[14] of d-wave superconductivity, with the assumption that there
is a slight residual disorder in the films which is absent in the
crystal. The observation that the slope of λ⁻² near T_(c) in the films
is only about 20

The authors acknowledge valuable discussions with Daniel Cox, Nigel
Goldenfeld, Peter Hirschfeld, and Yong-Jihn Kim, computer programming by
Ki Ho Lee, and help from Eric Ulm, Dimitrios Xenikos, and Jin-Tae Kim.
The work at OSU was supported by DOE Grant No. DE-FG02-90ER45427 through
the Midwest Superconductivity Consortium.

## References

* [1] D. R. Harshman _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **39**, 851 (1989). * [2] Y.
J. Uemura _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **66**, 2665 (1991). * [3] B.
Pumpin _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **42**, 8019 (1990). * [4] D. A. Bonn _et
al._, Phys. Rev. B **47**, 11 314 (1993). * [5] A. T. Fiory, A. F.
Hebard, P. M. Mankiewich, and R. E. Howard, Appl. Phys. Lett. **52**,
2165 (1988). * [6] A. T. Fiory _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **61**, 1419
(1988); A. T. Fiory and A. F. Hebard, in _Magnetic Susceptibility of
Superconductors and Other Spin Systems_, edited by R. A. Hein _et al._
(Plenum, New York, 1991), p. 437. * [7] J. Annett, N. Goldenfeld, and S.
R. Renn, Phys. Rev. B **43**, 2778 (1991). * [8] J. Y. Lee and T. R.
Lemberger, Appl. Phys. Lett. **62**, 2419 (1993). * [9] Z. Ma _et al._,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **71**, 781 (1993). Although this paper reports data
only below 23 K, the curvature of λ⁻²(T) for the two highest-T_(c)
Y-Ba-Cu-O films below 23 K is so strong that λ⁻² must have an inflection
point between 23 K and T_(c). * [10] Y. Y. Lee, Ph.D. thesis, Ohio State
University, 1994 (unpublished). * [11] N. Klein _et al._, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **71**, 3355 (1993). * [12] K. M. Paget, J. Y. Lee, T. R.
Lemberger, S. Y. Hou, and J. M. Phillips (unpublished). These workers
find an inflection point in λ⁻²(T) at about 40 K in films made by
codeposition on twinned LaAlO₃ substrates. * [13] W. N. Hardy _et al._,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **70**, 3999 (1993). * [14] P. J. Hirschfeld and N.
Goldenfeld, Phys. Rev. B **48**, 4219 (1993). * [15] P. J. Hirschfeld,
P. Wolfle, and D. Einzel, Phys. Rev. B **37**, 83 (1988). * [16] H. Kim,
G. Preosti, and P. Muzikar, Phys. Rev. B **49**, 3544 (1994); C. H. Choi
and P. Muzikar, _ibid._ **39**, 11 296 (1989). * [17] M. Prohammer and
J. P. Carbotte, Phys. Rev. B **43**, 5370 (1991). * [18] B. Jeanneret
_et al._, Appl. Phys. Lett. **55**, 2336 (1989). * [19] J.-Y. Lee _et
al._ (unpublished). * [20] E. R. Ulm, J.-T. Kim, and T. R. Lemberger,
Physica B **194-196**, 2331 (1994).
