Volume dependence of the superconducting transition temperature for the
high-temperature superconductor HgBa₂CuO_(4 + δ)

Charles C. Kim, E. F. Skelton, S. B.Qadri, V. M. Browning, and M. S.
Osofsky

Condensed Matter and Radiation Sciences Division and Materials Science
and Technology Division, Naval Research Laboratory, Washington, D.C.
20375-5345

M. E. Reeves

Physics Department, George Washington University, Washington, D.C. 20052

D. H. Liebenberg

Office of Naval Research, Arlington, Virginia 22217-5000

15 November 1993

###### Abstract

The homologous series HgBa₂Ca_(n − 1)Cu_(n)O_(2n + 2 + δ)
(n = 1, 2, 3, 4) are the newest and most promising of the layered
high-T_(c) superconducting materials, as demonstrated in setting the
highest T_(c) among the known superconducting materials. The first of
its series, HgBa₂CuO_(4 + δ), contains only one Cu-O plane per unit cell
and is superconducting with T_(c) about 94 K. The superconducting
transition temperature as a function of pressure, T_(c)(P), was measured
to 4.5 GPa. T_(c) was determined from ac susceptibility measurements and
pressure was determined near T_(c) from shifts in ruby fluorescence
peaks. T_(c) increases monotonically with dT_(c)(P)/dP ≈ 1.8 K/GPa at
ambient pressure. The volume as a function of pressure, V(P), was
measured to 10 GPa. The lattice parameters were determined by
energy-dispersive x-ray-diffraction methods and pressure was determined
from shifts in ruby fluorescence peaks. The volume decreases
monotonically producing an isothermal bulk modulus B_(V) = 104 ± 17 GPa
at ambient pressure. Both results were combined to produce T_(c)(V),
which is more readily compared to theoretical models.

## I Introduction

Recently, the compound HgBa₂CuO_(4 + δ) was found to be superconducting
with T_(c) about 94 K.[1] This is a remarkably high value of T_(c) for a
single CuO₂ layer per unit cell. For example, TlBa₂CuO_(5 − δ) has a
similar structure as HgBa₂CuO_(4 + δ), but its T_(c) is less than 10
K.[2] It was surmised[1] and found[3] that the irreversibility field
H^(*)(T) is significantly higher for HgBa₂CuO_(4 + δ) than for the two-
and three-copper-layer Bi-Sr-Ca-Cu-O compounds, suggesting what is
likely to be a significant improvement in technological applications.

Knowing the superconducting transition temperature as a function of
pressure, T_(c)(P), is important because that information can guide
research directed at improving T_(c)(0). In 1987, Chu _et al._ found
that (La_(0.9)Ba_(0.1))₂CuO_(4 − y) with T_(c) = 39 K at ambient
pressure increases to 52.5 K at 12 GPa, a rate of 11 K/GPa.[4] That led
Chu _et al._ to discover YBa₂Cu₃O₇ with T_(c) above 90 K.[5] Recently,
Chu _et al._ reported that T_(c) at 135 K for HgBa₂Ca₂Cu₃O_(8 + δ)
increases monotonically above 150 K at 15 GPa.[6] This opens the
possibility to find a superconducting material with T_(c) above 150 K at
ambient pressure. It is noteworthy that this temperature can be achieved
by using ordinary household air-conditioning technology. Additionally,
T_(c)(P) measurements help in understanding the mechanism of
superconductivity for new materials. In conjunction with the knowledge
of the effect of pressure on volume, V(P), T_(c)(P) is transformed into
T_(c)(V), which can be directly compared with theoretical models.[7, 8]

The samples of polycrystalline HgBa₂CuO_(4 + δ) were grown. The growth
procedures are detailed elsewhere.[3] The sample condition depended
sensitively on the growth condition. One sample which was heated to 800
^(∘)C and annealed with oxygen at 200 ^(∘)C for 2 h began to decompose
in a week or two when it was exposed to the atmosphere, whereas another
which was heated to 840 ^(∘)C and annealed at 200 ^(∘)C for 6 h did not.
In both cases, the samples were kept in a dry box to reduce exposure to
moisture. For this reason, samples which were annealed 6 h with O₂ were
used for our measurements. Figure 1 shows the resistance as a function
of temperature, R(T). From room temperature to the transition
temperature, R drops by a factor of about 4 demonstrating metallic
behavior. The onset temperature is about 95 K and zero resistance is
achieved at about 90 K. The onset temperature determined by resistance
is slightly higher than that by the ac susceptibility, since the
shielding effect takes place when the resistance reaches zero.

The magnetic susceptibility using a superconducting quantum interference
device (SQUID) magnetometer (Quantum Design) was measured. Figure 2
shows the magnetic moment per mass, χ_(m)(T), in steps of 5 K. In an
external field H = 17 Oe, the zero-field-cooling (ZFC) susceptibility
amounts to −0.01 cm³/g near 4 K.

The sample density is 7 g/cm³ according to the crystal structure. The
substitution of −0.01 cm³/g into the equation
$\chi_{\rm w}(T)=\rho\chi_{\rm m}(T)$ where ρ = 7 g/cm³ yields −0.07,
which is about 90

Klehe _et al._ measured T_(c)(P) for HgBa₂CuO_(4 + δ) to 1 GPa using a
helium-gas cell.[9]T_(c)(P) for pressures higher than 1 GPa has not been
reported yet. We report T_(c)(P) to 4.5 GPa using a diamond anvil cell.
Cornelius and Schilling[10] calculated the bulk modulus for
HgBa₂CuO_(4 + δ) to be 88 GPa. Their model for the calculation is
developed from an empirical expression for the volume compressibility of
the polyhedra.[11] We are not aware of any experimental measurements of
V(P) for HgBa₂CuO_(4 + δ), from which the bulk modulus can be deduced.
We report V(P) to 10 GPa. Using this result, our T_(c)(P) data are
transformed into T_(c)(V), which is compared with several theoretical
predictions.

## II Pressure Dependence on T_(c)

Our system for T_(c)(P) measurement has been described elsewhere[12, 13,
14] and has been improved to achieve better sensitivity and
accuracy.[15] In this system, pressure is applied to the sample by the
diamond anvil cell[16, 17] (DAC) at room temperature, but is determined
near T_(c) by measuring the R₁ and R₂ fluorescence peaks from ruby chips
inside the pressure cavity. The importance of _in situ_ pressure
measurement has been demonstrated.[14, 15] Silicone oil was used as the
pressure medium. It was found that the customary high-pressure fluid,
methanol:ethanol:4:1, destroys the superconducting properties of our
polycrystalline samples of HgBa₂CuO_(4 + δ). It is likely that H₂O in
the mixture reacts with the sample and causes decomposition.[18] In
contrast, the silicone oil does not affect the superconducting
properties. It also remains transparent near T_(c), thus allowing ruby
fluorescence measurements.

T_(c) is obtained from the measurements of ac susceptibility,
χ(T) = χ^(′)(T) + iχ^(′′)(T).[19] The sample is located in one of the
compensating coils. χ(T) is proportional to the voltage amplitude,
V(T) = V^(′)(T) + iV^(′′)(T) of the compensating coils. The relatively
small filling factor, although improved,[15] reduces the fraction of
V^(′)(T) due to the sample superconductivity, $V^{\prime}_{\rm sc}(T)$.
Thus, $V^{\prime}_{\rm sc}(T)$ is extracted from V^(′)(T) by subtracting
the background, from which T_(c) is systematically determined.[15]

Two pieces of the sample were chosen to determine T_(c)(P). The size of
each piece was about 0.5 × 0.5 × 0.4 mm³ which ensures hydrostatic
pressure inside pressure cavity whose diameter and thickness are 0.7 and
0.5 mm, respectively. One piece, sample A, has T_(c) = 88.97 ± 0.16 K
and the other, sample B, has T_(c) = 90.96 ± 0.05 K at ambient pressure.
The uncertainties were determined by considering only the statistical
errors. The slight difference is reflective of the sample inhomogeneity.
It may be due to the slight variation of oxygen content, δ, from region
to region. Figure 3 shows $V^{\prime}_{\rm sc}(T)$ on increasing
temperature at different pressures. For clarity, only the data obtained
at selected pressures of 0.0, 1.9, 3.2, and 4.3 GPa for sample B are
shown in this figure. The solid lines show the fit to the data to
determine systematically T_(c) at onset temperature.[15] The transition
width increases as pressure increases. This does not imply strong
nonhydrostatic pressure, since the line width of the ruby fluorescence
peaks did not show any sign of anomalous line broadening which arises
from the uniaxial pressure, but may indicate the sample inhomogeneity or
fragmentation. Due to the increase in the transition width,
determination of T_(c)(P) depends on the points chosen for T_(c).
Goldfarb _et al.[19]_ discuss the disadvantage of using the midpoint.
The width is also needed and these are field dependent. So they
recommend the onset temperature

Figure 2: Magnetic susceptibility for HgBa₂CuO_(4 + δ) at ambient
pressure.

as the correct (closest to intrinsic) T_(c). For these reasons, T_(c) is
taken to be the onset temperature for the results of T_(c)(P).

Figure 4 shows T_(c)(P) for samples A and B. The errors for T_(c) as
shown by the error bars in this figure were determined by taking only
the statistical error into account during the fitting.[20] The errors
generally increase as pressure increases where the signal-to-noise ratio
is reduced. Up to 1 GPa, T_(c) increases at a rate of about 1.8 K/GPa.
This value is close to the value reported by Klehe _et al.[9]_ who
reported T_(c)(P) to 1 GPa using the He-gas cell. Above 1 GPa, the rate
slightly reduces and remains nearly constant to 4.5 GPa. Our data do not
indicate any sign of decrease or turnover up to 4.5 GPa and a linear fit
appears reasonable. The solid lines are the fits by the straight line
fixing T_(c)(0) as given by the data. Sample A yields

T_(c)(P) = 88.97 + 1.45P
(1)

with the fractional error 2.8

T_(c)(P) = 90.96 + 1.37P
(2)

with the fractional error 0.9

These initial slopes for HgBa₂CuO_(4 + δ) are larger than those of
superconducting RBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ),[21] where R refers to rare earth atoms
with δ ≈ 0, except NdBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ).[14] In the case of
YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ), the higher the initial slope, the lower T_(c)(0).[22]
Thus, the high initial slope implies that the optimum value of δ has not
been achieved as demonstrated by increasing T_(c) on decreasing δ. If
this trend is applicable to HgBa₂CuO_(4 + δ), the high initial slope for
HgBa₂CuO_(4 + δ) indicates that T_(c)(0) may increase further as δ
changes to optimal value. At this moment, the values of δ for our
samples are unknown. Work is in progress to determine T_(c)(δ).

Our measurements reveal that T_(c)(P) for HgBa₂CuO_(4 + δ) increases
monotonically without showing any sign of decrease to 4.5 GPa. The
homologous series HgBa₂Ca_(n − 1)Cu_(n)O_(2n + 2 + δ) with n = 2 and 3
have shown that T_(c) increases monotonically to 18 GPa without showing
any sign of decrease.[6, 23] A similar trend for HgBa₂Ca₂CuO_(8 + δ) to
23.5 GPa was observed by Nunez-Regueiro _et al.[24]_ At this moment, we
do not know whether T_(c)(P) for HgBa₂CuO_(4 + δ) will follow that of
the homologous series with n = 2 and 3 to 20 GPa. If so, T_(c)(P) for
this series appears to be different from that for other high-T_(c)
superconducting materials such as RBa₂Cu₃O₇,[21]
Tl₂Ba₂CaCu₃O_(10 − δ),[13] which show a change of sign in dT_(c)(P)/dP
at a pressure determined by the initial doping.

Wijingaarden _et al._ showed that T_(c)(P) for YBa₂Cu₄O₈ shows the
maximum at about 10 GPa, whereas that for CaLaBaCu₄O₈ increases
monotonically to 50 GPa.[25] In both materials the carrier concentration
on the Cu-O plane, $\delta_{\rm Cu-O}$, increases monotonically as
pressure increases. The only difference is that
$d\delta_{\rm Cu-O}(P)/dP$ for YBa_(2 − δ)Cu₄O₈ is greater than that for
CaLaBaCu₄O₈. T_(c)(P) for the homologous
HgBa₂Ca_(n − 1)Cu_(n)O_(2n + 2 + δ) is similar to that for CaLaBaCu₄O₈
in that dT_(c)(P)/dP does not show the change of sign. Maybe
$\delta_{\rm Cu-O}$ for HgBa₂Ca_(n − 1)Cu_(n)O_(2n + 2 + δ) increases
more slowly, or possibly saturates to the optimal value at higher
pressures. If the carrier concentration steadily increases on increasing
P as shown in other high-T_(c) materials, T_(c) for these series may be
insensitive to the change of carrier concentration at high pressures.

We want to be, however, cautious to draw such a conclusion. In case of
YBa₂Cu₃O₇, Chu _et al._ observed from R(T) that T_(c) monotonically
increases to 16 GPa.[26] The pressure was measured with a Pb manometer.
Later, Klotz _et al.[27]_ found from χ(T) that T_(c) for YBa₂Cu₃O₇ has
maximum at ∼4 GPa in contrast to their measurements. The difference was
ascribed to quasihydrostatic pressure by Chu _et al.[28]_ This raises a
slight doubt on T_(c)(P) patterns for
HgBa₂Ca_(n − 1)Cu_(n)O_(2n + 2 + δ) with n = 2 and 3 at higher
pressures. It is worthwhile to determine T_(c)(P) to very high pressure
for HgBa₂Ca_(n − 1)Cu_(n)O_(2n + 2 + δ)

Figure 4: T_(c)(P) for both sample A and B to 4.5 GPa. The solid lines
are the linear fit to the data.

Figure 3: V_(sc)^(′)(T) for sample B at selected pressures for clarity.
The solid lines are fit to the data determining systematically T_(c) at
onset temperature.

with n = 1, 2, and 3 from χ(T) under hydrostatic conditions.

## III Pressure effect on volume

We carried out energy dispersive x-ray-diffraction measurements[17]
using the beam line X17C at the National Syncrotron Light Source. A
Mao-Bell type DAC (Ref. [28]) was used to obtain high pressures. The
pressure medium for this study was same as for T_(c)(P) measurements.
The sample with this pressure medium did not show any anomalous change
in the x-ray-diffraction patterns unlike the sample with
methanol:ethanol:4:1. The pressure was measured in the same way as for
T_(c)(P) measurements.

The sample was ground into a fine powder and loaded into the pressure
cavity whose diameter was about 0.3 mm. Each energy-dispersive
diffraction spectrum was obtained with the detector fixed at
2θ = 13.00^(∘). The measurement period for each spectrum was 10 min.
Figure 5 shows a spectrum as taken at 1.10 GPa. Diffraction peaks from
the sample are indexed accordingly. Those peaks which are not indexed
are fluorescence peaks from the constituent atoms. A Fortran program is
used to determine the peak position, intensity I, and linewidth Γ. All
of the observed lines N from each spectrum are used to determine the
lattice parameters by minimizing the weighted mean squared value[20]

$$\sigma^{2}=\frac{1}{N}\sum_{j=1}^{N}w_{j}\left(\frac{1}{d_{\rm{calc}}^{2}}- \frac{1}{d_{\rm{obs}}^{2}}\right)^{2}\ ,$$
(3)

where w_(j) ∝ I/Γ, $\sum_{j=1}^{N}w_{j}=N$, and d is the interatomic
planar spacing. Considering the fractional error
$\sigma_{f}=\sum|d_{\rm{calc}}^{-2}-d_{\rm{obs}}^{-2}|/\sum d_{\rm{obs}}^{-2}$,
all of the data could be fitted with σ_(f) varying from 1

Table 1 shows the resultant lattice parameters and volume at various
pressures. We find a = 3.8739(19) and c = 9.5029(170) at ambient
pressure and temperature. Putilin _et al.[1]_ reported a = 3.8797(5) and
c = 9.509(2) using x-ray powder data with a Rietveld refinement. Our a
value is slightly smaller than theirs; our c value agrees. Chmaissem _et
al.[29]_ reported a = 3.8829(6) and c = 9.5129(14) for the sample
containing 44

Figure 6 shows a/a₀, c/c₀, and V/V₀ as a function of pressure to
pressure to 10 GPa. The lattice parameters as well as the volume
decrease as pressure increases. Their values can be fitted to the
Murnaghan equation of state.[30] We slightly extended it to

$$P=\frac{B_{\alpha}}{B_{\alpha}^{\prime}}\ \left[\left(\frac{\alpha_{0}}{\alpha} \right)^{B_{\alpha}^{\prime}}-1\right],$$
(4)

where α = a, c, or V, the subscript 0 indicates ambient pressure,
B_(α) = ∂α/α∂P, and B_(α)^(′) = ∂B_(α)/∂P. We rearranged Eq. (4) as α(P)
and fitted α(P). Table 2 shows the values of B_(α) and B_(α)^(′). The
experimental value of B_(V) = 104 ± 17 GPa is close to 88 GPa calculated
by Cornelius and Schilling.[10] From their calculation, Cornelius and
Schilling concluded that the material is most compressible among the
known high-T_(c) superconductors. Our B_(V) value is larger than that of
RBa₂Cu₃O₇ and La₂CuO₄, but similar or less than that of Bi-based
superconductors.[21] On the other hand, the experimental

Table 2: Values of B_(a) and B_(a)^(′) for HgBa₂CuO_(4 + δ). Our
experimental values are compared with some of the calculated values by
Cornellius and Schilling (Ref. 10).

Figure 8: dln T_(c)/dln V as a function of T_(c). The solid line is the
calculated value based on BCS theory with pairing mechanism other than
phonons.

Figure 7: T_(c)(V) for sample B. The solid line is a linear fit to the
data.

tion of pressure. Because the material is layered, it is unknown whether
the interlayer compressibility is proportional to κ_(c). We plan such
measurements in the near future. These measurements will also tell us
the change of carrier concentration on the Cu-O plane as a function of
volume.

## V Conclusion

We have found T_(c)(P) for HgBa₂CuO_(4 + δ) to 4.5 GPa. Unlike other
superconducting materials with T_(c) about 90 K or above, T_(c)
increases monotonically without any sign of decrease as P increases. We
conjecture that T_(c) may increase continually on increasing P, as
observed in the homologous system HgBa₂Ca_(n − 1)Cu_(n)O_(2n + 2 + δ)
with n = 2 and 3. This system, therefore, indicates that T_(c) can be
further improved either by proper chemical substitution, or by optimal
oxygen doping. We have also determined V(P), from which B_(V) = 104 ± 17
GPa was obtained. The experimental value of B_(V) is close to the
calculated value of 88 GPa by Cornelius and Schilling.[10] Unlike their
calculated result of κ_(a) ≈ κ_(c), our experimental results show that
κ_(c) is greater than κ_(a) by a factor of 3.

We have produced T_(c)(V) for HgBa₂CuO_(4 + δ) from the measured values
of T_(c)(P) and V(P). For comparison with other models, dln T_(c)/dln V
also has been generated. dln T_(c)/dln V is about −1.5 like other
high-T_(c) superconducting materials with T_(c) about or above 90 K. The
results were compared with the model based on the BCS-like theory with
pairing mechanism other than phonon-electron interaction. This model is
unable to describe the experimental result even with variation of one
input parameter. It may be, however, too early to make such a conclusion
and we await more detailed calculations. Many other models have been
suggested in the past. We expect that our experimental results will help
in refining those models.

###### Acknowledgements.

The polycrystalline samples of HgBa₂CuO_(4 + δ) were graciously provided
by W. Chang and E. Helstrom in the Applied Superconductivity Center at
the University of Wisconsin-Madison. The authors are grateful to A. R.
Drews who suggested the silicone oil as the pressure medium, without
which T_(c)(P) measurement for the HgBa₂CuO_(4 + δ) polycrystal would
have been impossible. The authors are grateful to W. E. Pickett who read
our manuscript and gave us valuable comments. C. C. Kim acknowledges the
support of the National Research Council. D. H. Liebenberg acknowledges
the support of the Scientific Program at the Office of Naval Research.

## References

* [1] S. N. Putilin, E. V. Antipov, O. Chmaissem, and M. Marezio, Nature
**362**, 226 (1993). * [2] I. K. Gopalakrishnan, J. V. Yakhimi, and R.
M. Iyer, Physica C **175**, 183 (1991). * [3] A. Umezawa, W. Zhang, A.
Gurevich, Y. Feng, E. E. Hellstrom, and D. C. Larbalestier, Nature
**364**, 129 (1993). * [4] C. W. Chu, P. H. Hor, R. L. Meng, L. Gao, and
Z. J. Huang, Science **235**, 567 (1987). * [5] C. W. Chu, P. H. Hor, R.
L. Meng, L. Gao, Z. J. Huang, and Y. Q. Wang, Phys. Rev. Lett. **58**,
405 (1987). * [6] C. W. Chu, L. Gao, F. Chen, Z. J. Huang, R. L. Meng,
and Y. Y. Xue, Nature **365**, 323 (1993). * [7] R. J. Wijngaarden and
R. Griessen, in _Studies of High Temperature Superconductors_, edited by
A. Narlikar (Nova, Commack, New York, 1989), Vol. 2, p. 29. * [8] R.
Griessen, Phys. Rev. B **36**, 5284 (1987). * [9] A. K. Klehe, A. K.
Gangopadhyay, J. Diederichs, and J. S. Schilling (unpublished). * [10]
A. L. Cornelius and J. S. Schilling, Physica C **218**, 369 (1993). *
[11] R. M. Hazen and L. W. Finger, _Comparative Crystal Chemistry_
(Wiley, Chichester, 1982). * [12] N. E. Moulton, S. A. Wolf, E. F.
Skelton, D. H. Liebenberg, T. A. Vanderah, A. M. Hermann, and H. M.
Duan, Phys. Rev. B **44**, 12632 (1991). * [13] D. D. Berkley, E. F.
Skelton, N. E. Moulton, M. S. Osofsky, W. T. Lechter, V. M. Browning,
and D. H. Liebenberg, Phys. Rev. B **47**, 5524 (1993). * [14] C. C.
Kim, E. F. Skelton, M. S. Osofsky, and D. H. Liebenberg, Phys. Rev. B
**48**, 6431 (1993). * [15] C. C. Kim, M. E. Reeves, M. S. Osofsky, E.
F. Skelton, and D. H. Liebenberg, Rev. Sci. Instrum. **65**, 992
(1994). * [16] E. F. Skelton, I. L. Spain, and F. J. Rachford, in _High
Pressure and Low Temperature Physics_, edited by C. W. Chu and J. A.
Wollam (Plenum, New York, 1978), p. 337. * [17] E. F. Skelton, Phys.
Today **37**(9), 44 (1984). * [18] A. Barkatt, H. Hojaji, V. R. W.
Amarakoon, and J. G. Fagan, Mater. Res. Soc. Bull. **18**(9), 45 (1993),
and references therein. * [19] R. B. Goldfarb, M. Lelental, and C. A.
Thompson, in _Magnetic Susceptibility of Superconductors and Other Spin
Systems_, edited by R. A. Hein, T. L. Francavilla, and D. H. Liebenberg
(Plenum, New York, 1991), p. 49. * [20] W. H. Press, B. P. Flannery, S.
A. Teukolsky, and W. T. Vetterling, _Numerical Recipes_ (Cambridge, New
York, 1990), Chap. 14. * [21] J. S. Schilling and S. Klotz, in _Physical
Properties of High Temperature Superconductors_, edited by D. M.
Ginsberg (World Scientific, Singapore, 1992), Vol. 3, p. 59. * [22] C.
C. Almasan, S. H. Han, B. W. Lee, L. M. Paulius, M. B. Maple, B. W.
Veal, J. W. Downey, A. P. Paulikas, Z. Fisk, and J. E. Shirber, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **69**, 680 (1992). * [23] L. Gao, F. Chen, R. L. Meng, Y. Y.
Xue, and C. W. Chu (unpublished). * [24] M. Nunez-Regueiro, J. L.
Tholence, E. V. Antipov, J. J. Capponi, and M. Marezio, Science **262**,
97 (1993). * [25] R. J. Wijngaarden, J. J. Scholtz, E. N. van Bennige,
and R. Griessen, in _Frontiers of High-Pressure Research_, edited by H.
D. Hochheimer and R. D. Etters (Plenum, New York, 1991), p. 399.

* (26) C. W. Chu, P. H. Hor, J. G. Lin, Q. Xiong, Z. J. Huang, R. L.
Meng, Y. Y. Xue, and Y. C. Jean, in _Frontiers of High-Pressure
Research_, edited by H. D. Hochheimer and R. D. Etters (Plenum, New
York, 1991), p. 383. * (27) S. Klotz, W. Rieth, and J. S. Schilling,
Physica C **172**, 423 (1991). * (28) A. P. Jephcoat, H. K. Mao, and P.
M. Bell, in _Hydrothermal Experimental Techniques_, edited by G. C.
Ulmer and H. L. Barnes (Wiley, New York, 1987), p. 469. * (29) O.
Chmaissem, Q. Huang, S. N. Putilin, M. Marezio, and A. Santoro, Physica
C **212**, 259 (1993). * (30) F. D. Murnaghan, _Finite Deformation of an
Elastic Solid_ (Wiley, New York, 1951).
