# Superconductivity, normal-state resistivity, and magnetic
susceptibility

of amorphous Zr-Co alloys

M. Flodin, L. Hedman, O. Rapp

Department of Solid State Physics, The Royal Institute of Technology,
S-100 44 Stockholm, Sweden

30 September 1985

###### Abstract

Disordered Zr-Co alloys are studied in the concentration range from 45
to 80 at.

## I Introduction

In recent years there has been an intensive interest in binary amorphous
alloys, in particular, in those based on Zr. These alloys can be rather
conveniently formed in melt spinning over wide composition ranges and
therefore provide a useful basis for a systematic study of the element
and concentration dependence of various properties. Examples include
structural properties, relaxation phenomena, crystallization,
resistivity, magnetic susceptibility, specific heat, electronic
structure, and superconducting and ferromagnetic properties.

Nevertheless, the problem remains of how to adequately characterize an
amorphous material. There is no well-defined structure, even for
identical chemical compositions, and the basic question of how to
correlate microstructure with observed properties of amorphous metals is
still too difficult a problem. Furthermore, besides conventional
concerns with sample purity and homogeneity, the experimentalist on
amorphous metals must also take into account a number of possible
influences on the measured properties such as the time dependence and
the effects from processing parameters, e.g., melt temperature, cooling
rate, and substrate temperature.

Methods developed to deal with these problems are so far mainly aimed at
empirical characterization. One line of research is to modify the
structure of a glass of given chemical composition, e.g., by heat
treatment,[1] by varying the melt temperature,[2] by different quenching
rates[3, 4] or by different substrate temperatures.[5] Another approach
is to report on several different experimental results for each sample
to characterize it by its physical properties.

We present results of x-ray scattering, superconducting transition
temperature _T_c, normal-state magnetic susceptibility, and electrical
resistivity measurements of disordered Zr-Co alloys in the range 45-80
at.

## II Experimental Methods

### Sample preparation

The nominal purities of the elements used were 99.8 wt.

Samples of mass of about 2 g were melt spun onto a rotating copper drum.
The sample space could not be evacuated, but prior to melting, liquid N2
was poured into a large container below the copper wheel which boiled
off gas in sufficient quantities to preclude oxidation. Observations
which support the view that this technique was adequate will be
described below.

Care was taken to maintain similar process parameters for each alloy.
Thus, by allowing the cast bands to drop into the cooled container, one
should minimize post-quenching annealing effects. The ejection pressure
and roller speed were kept constant, producing bands of about 30 _m_m
thickness, and the quenching rates are presumably similar. The
temperature of the melt _T_m was not measured. We used similar heating
power, heating time, and sample mass in each case however and
differences in _T_m are expected to be small.

### Conventional measurement techniques

Both sides of the samples were examined by x-ray diffraction at room
temperature. The position of the first peak in the structure factor was
determined in a setup with a curved monochromator of LiF in the
diffracted beam, a scintillation counter, and a step scanning control.
Readings were taken for a fixed time in steps of 0.1deg in _th_.

The superconducting transitions were determined by dc resistance
measurements. We checked these results by a mutual inductance
measurement on the Z_(fδ0)Co₂₀ sample. T_(ϵ) was then about 40 mK lower
(≈ 1

The temperature and field dependence of the magnetic susceptibility X
was measured in a Faraday balance in the range 4.2−300 K and 0−1.5 T.
Samples of masses down to 10 mg were suspended in Au wires which had
been separately calibrated.

### Resistivity measurements

The best results for the resistivity r of amorphous metals are usually
obtained from density measurements [6] of the cross-sectional area A.
Such measurements are now widely used. However, accurate results may
require sample lengths of the order of a meter. It must then furthermore
be assumed that the variation of A is small over the length used in the
resistance measurement.

In our case, we could only obtain band lengths of the order of several
cm for Z_(fδ5)Co₅₅. Therefore we have developed a photographic method to
obtain accurate resistivity measurements on short samples. [7] This
method allows for measurements of r and A on the same piece of a sample
so that any variation of A over the sample length can be controlled.

The resistance was measured at a few different well-marked positions of
the potential edges. The sample was then embedded in plastic and
grounded down at right angles to its length and A was determined
photographically at several positions. The accuracy of this method is
mainly determined by errors in the photographic processes and is
estimated to be within +-1.5

### Influence of small crystallites

In melt spinning with one wheel, the side of the band in contact with
the roller surface (inner side) is more rapidly cooled than the outer
surface. Therefore, particularly at the limits of the glass-forming
range, the critical cooling rate may be exceeded at the inner side and
just barely reached on the outer side resulting in the formation of
small crystallites on the surface of the more slowly cooled side of the
sample. [8, 9] Unless both sides of the bands are examined this fact may
easily escape attention.

Figure 1 shows the x-ray spectra of a Z_(fδ0)Co₂₀ sample. Three peaks
were observed from the outer surface as quenched [Fig. 1(a)]. The d
values of the two higher

Figure 1: A portion of x-ray scattering results with Cu _K_α radiation
from a Z_(fδ0)Co₂₀ sample. (a) The slowly cooled side of the sample as
quenched. (b) The same side after light grinding. (c) The rapidly cooled
side as quenched.

Figure 2: Superconducting transitions for the same sample as in Fig. 1.
R_(N) is the normal-state resistance.

angle peaks would suggest[10] Zr4Co. After grinding this surface the
peaks disappeared and the resulting diffractogram, shown in Fig. 1(b),
resembles the result in Fig. 1(c) from the inner side in the as-quenched
condition.

Although these crystallites presumably form a small fraction of the
outer surface in the as-quenched condition they may have a strong
influence on properties which are sensitive to surface conditions. This
is illustrated in Figs. 2 and 3. T_(e) measured resistively shows a
double transition in the as-quenched state (Fig. 2). After grinding,
only the lower transition is observed, which we thus associate with the
glassy state.

The resistance around 270 K is shown in Fig. 3, arbitrarily normalized
to display that the temperature coefficient of resistance α is less
negative in the as-quenched state. Crystallites may be expected to have
a lower resistivity than the bulk and a positive α. Therefore they may
contribute substantially to decrease | α |. Similar conclusions were
reached previously for Ni-Zr glasses.[11]

### Absence of observable surface oxides

In spite of the precautions taken to avoid oxidation during melt
spinning, some surface oxides may have formed. Therefore one may be
concerned about a possible influence of such oxides on the measured
properties. It will be seen below that the results for T_(e), ρ, χ, and
the first peak in the structure factor are in good agreement with those
obtained with samples from other sources, melt spun in an inert gas. The
results for Zr80Co20 discussed above also clearly indicate that a
conducting phase is removed by grinding the surface.

For the field dependence of χ there are no comparable results. Therefore
we investigated the magnetic properties of a Zr65Co3 sample melt spun in
Ar gas. The results for χ and its temperature dependence are similar to
those displayed below, χ being about 2

### Absence of significant aging effects

Since a glass is not in thermodynamic equilibrium, the question arises
whether the observed properties are time dependent. Strong aging effects
have been observed in the temperature dependence of resistance[12] of
Zr40Cu60 with a change of sign of α at 250 K after 27 months. We have
not performed a systematic study of aging in Zr-Co alloys. By
remeasuring several properties after an extended time, however, we have
ascertained that such effects are at most small in this alloy system.

Our samples were stored in air at room temperature. The positions of the
potential edges in the resistance measurements were not marked on the
samples since we were not worried by aging effects at the time of our
first measurements. Therefore the samples may have been slightly
displaced when remeasured and the scatter of these results include
possible aging as well as variations over sample length.

The resistive results for T_(e), however, all show a small decrease of
below 2

In the measurements of χ, the samples were folded and wrapped with a
suspension wire of Au. Stored in this way a sample of Zr59Co41 was
remeasured after 39 months. The results for χ were within a few tenths
of a percent of the original measurements at all temperatures. In the
field dependence of χ we found a measurable aging effect of about a 3

## III Results and interpretation

### x-ray results

Disordered samples with 50, 78, and 82 at.

The magnitude of the scattering vector k_(p) at the first peak in the
diffractograms was evaluated from k_(p) = 4πsin θ/λ. The results are
shown in Fig. 4 together with published values. Our data for 65 at.

Figure 3: Resistance versus temperature at higher temperatures for
Zr80Co20 as quenched and after grinding. R has been arbitrarily
normalized to a temperature T₀ of about 230 K to display that the
temperature dependence is weaker for the sample as quenched.

results for samples from different sources agree fairly well. There
appears to be a change of slope of k_(p) versus Zr concentration around
65 at.

### Superconducting transition temperature

Our T_(e) results agree with those of other workers. Data from several
different sources were shown recently.15 We have fitted a second-degree
polynomial T_(e)(_c_), with Zr concentration c in at.

T_(e)(c) = 0.225(c − 49.7) − 0.00306(c − 49.7)²

with a standard deviation of below 50 mK for the data in the range 53-80
at.

### Magnetic susceptibility

The magnetic susceptibility was found to be somewhat field dependent in
all samples. As previously reported17 in disordered Zr-Fe this is
ascribed to ferromagnetic Co-rich clusters of saturation magnetization s
and weight function o. The observed magnetization _X__A__B_ is thus
assumed to consist of two parts: _XB_ and o_(s). X is the matrix
susceptibility and is taken to be independent of the magnetic field B as
in Honda plots of X_(A) versus 1/_B_:

χ = χ_(A) − ωσ/B

X at 300 K is shown in Fig. 6 as a function of Zr concentration. Our
results agree very well with those of Babic _et al._18 in the range
80-65 at.

It can be seen from Fig. 6 that X is weakly dependent on concentration
for the superconducting alloys. At 45 at.

At 45 at.

Figure 5: Concentration dependence of T_(e). ○, Ref. 16; □, present
results. The curve, Eq. (1), is a least-square fit to the data.

Figure 6: Concentration dependence of the room-temperature magnetic
susceptibility. □, Ref. 16; □, Ref. 18; ○, present results.

in the same temperature interval. Clearly, there is no well-developed
local moment in disordered Zr-Co alloys at a few at.

In Fig. 8 the temperature dependence of _o_or in Eq. (2) is shown for
some samples. It can be seen that _o_or increases with decreasing
temperature and increases at each temperature with decreasing Zr
concentration. For Zr45Co55 the field-dependent part of _kh_ is quite
large at all temperatures. From Fig. 7 it can be seen that _o_or/_B_ at
1 T for this sample is comparable to _kh_. The large field dependence
and the possibility that some clusters are unsaturated in the available
field range up to 1.5 T make the results for _kh_ and _o_or somewhat
less accurate for this sample. Therefore the data are more scattered in
this case.

This fact does not affect the conclusion that o is small even close to
the ferromagnetic boundary. If these clusters consist of Co spins of 1.7
_m__B_/(Co atom), then about 250 wt. ppm of such clusters would be
required at 45 at.

For the superconducting alloys, o is an order of magnitude smaller. It
was found previously that _o_or could be varied by about a factor of 3
by different cooling rates without any appreciable influence on _Tc_.4
We concluded that up to at least 35 at.

_kh_ and _o_or follow a similar concentration dependence with a small
increase down to 59 at.

### Electrical resistivity

The electrical resistivity was measured with the photographic technique
on three samples. These results are shown by the open circles in Fig. 9
together with several results from density measurements. Our results are
similar to the two sets of data marked by triangles. In particular,
taking the variation of A into account does not give

Figure 8: Temperature dependence of _ω_or, defined in Eq. (2). The
figures give Zr concentration in at.

Figure 7: Temperature dependence of _χ_ for some samples. The figures
denote Zr concentration in at.

systematically lower values of r compared to results from density
measurements which, as pointed out,25 would be the case if A were
seriously nonuniform. We conclude that in general there would be no need
for a more laborious photographic technique unless only short samples
were available.

The dashed curve in Fig. 9 is a guide to the eye suggesting a
concentration dependence of r which is similar to that in other
disordered Zr-based alloys.16,18 The filled circles9 were said to be
accurate to about 5

The results for _d__r_/_dT_ at 270 K are shown in Fig. 10. We were
concerned about assessing the validity of such results since very
differing values have been reported in the literature. E.g., the
concentration dependence of a was found18 to have the opposite sign
compared to our previous results.27 Furthermore, the strong time
dependence of disordered Zr-Cu alloys12 would seem to require
precautions which have rarely been considered.

To obtain _d__r_/_dT_, one usually measures a. We want to stress that
the well-known fact that a in disordered alloys is small should not be
taken to imply, as has often been the case, that the temperature
dependence of r is small in these alloys. The physically interesting
quantity is _d__r_/_dT_ and its magnitude, in contrast, is generally
large in disordered alloys. This is immediately clear from Fig. 10,
recalling that _d__r_/_dT_ of Cu at 270 K is about 7 nG cm/K.28

Data for samples in various conditions and from different sources have
been collected in Fig. 10. The open circle with a bar represents four
measurements on samples taken from different parts of a band studied in
Ref. 4 and of thickness comparable to the present ones. The data ▽ was
obtained from the present r data and the result21 for a for a sample,
from a different source. Unfilled circles represent measurements of
_d__r_/_dT_ performed within a few months from the casting of the bands.
Filled circles were obtained from samples aged for at least 21 months at
room temperature. The data marked △ were obtained from recent results29
for r and a, and the squares are estimates from a graph of R versus T
for ferromagnetic samples.30 The curve was calculated independently as
described in Sec. III.5.

The aging experiments were somewhat inconclusive since _d__r_/_dT_
changed differently for different samples. Therefore we do not know if
there is an unexpected concentration dependence of aging effects or if
measurement errors, including possible small changes in the positions of
the potential contacts, have caused these results. The latter
possibility seems more likely. Nevertheless, we can conclude that
possible aging effects are, at most, small for these alloys.

The results from Ref. 29 generally agree with ours. The notable
exception is the 80-at.

Figure 10 shows that ∣dρ/dT∣ decreases rapidly below 60 at.

### Interpretation of the resistivity results

For a number of different Zr-based glassy metals the electron-phonon
interaction l is proportional to _d__r_/_dT_ evaluated at about 270 K.21
With l calculated from McMillan’s formula,36 and the observed T_(c),
Θ = 200 K, and μ^(•) = 0.13, one finds37 for _d__r_/_dT_ in nG cm/K

λ = −0.028dρ/dT .

Figure 10: _d__r_/_dT_ at 270 K versus Zr concentration. _Δ_, from Ref.
29; �, from Ref. 30; �, Ref. 21; $\lx@sectionsign$, four measurements on
different portions of a sample band from Ref. 4; ○, present samples
within a few months from casting; �, present samples after prolonged
aging. The curve is a calculation of _d__r_/_dT_ for the region T > 0
based on Eqs. (1), (3), and (4).

A possible explanation for this observation was based on the generalized
Ziman model.[21] Equation (3) was found to break down for Zr-Ni
glasses.[38] Recent results, on the contrary, suggest that a similar
relation holds also in this case.[39] For glassy Nb-Ni, Eq. (3) appears
to be violated.[40] The reason for these different behaviors is not
understood. Obviously the application of Eq. (3) to glassy metals is
more problematic than for crystalline alloys and must be carefully
empirically established in each case.

Quantum corrections to the resistivity may be observed in disordered
metals.[41, 42] Since disorder is not expected to depend strongly on
concentration in these alloys, such a contribution would not
significantly influence the concentration dependence of _dp/dT_.

For the present alloys we calculate a function _dp_(_c_)/_dT_ from Eq.
(3), the observed T_(c)(_c_) [Eq. (1)], and McMillan’s equation

$$\lambda = \frac{1.04 + \mu^{\bullet}\ln[\Theta/1.45T_{c}(c)]}{(1 - 0.62\mu^{\bullet})\ln[\Theta/1.45T_{c}(c)] - 1.04}\ ,$$

with μ^(•) = 0.13 and Θ = 200 K independent of alloy concentration. The
result is shown in Fig. 10. The solid part of the curve covers the range
where T_(c) has been observed and the dashed part the extrapolated part
of Eq. (1). This extrapolation extends to 49.7 at.

It is worth noting that there is no adjustable parameter in this
calculation. The value of the proportionality constant k in the relation
λ = kdρ/dT was obtained from other experimental results, McMillan’s
formula, and the mentioned assumptions about μ^(•) and Θ. The
calculation is insensitive to the choice of Θ. In principle, though, one
could use k and μ^(•) as two adjustable parameters to obtain a best fit
to the observed _dp/dT_, but this possibility has not been explored
here.[43] The fit in Fig. 10 also provides further evidence that Eq. (3)
is useful for disordered Zr-Co alloys.

## IV Conclusions

Glassy Zr-Co alloys in the range 45-80 at.

We have obtained results for the concentration dependence of the
position of the first peak in the structure factor k_(p), the
superconducting T_(c), the resistivity and its temperature derivative,
and the field and temperature dependence of the magnetic susceptibility.
Several of these results such as k_(p)(_c_), T_(c)(_c_), _p_(_c_), and
_X_(_c_) confirm published data. We point out that there is apparently
no discontinuity in the slope of k_(p)(_c_) and that the magnitude of
the temperature derivative of the resistivity is large in most of these
alloys.

In all alloys X is field dependent, which suggests a small fraction o of
ferromagnetic clusters in the samples of saturation magnetization s.
_o_s increases with decreasing temperature for each alloy and with
decreasing Zr concentration at each temperature. o is a small fraction
of the matrix, below 0.2 wt.

_dp/dT_ is negative and its magnitude decreases with decreasing Zr
concentration and tends to zero close to the ferromagnetic phase
boundary. This result is correlated with a decreasing electron-phonon
interaction.

The results suggest that Co plays a rather passive role in Zr-rich
glassy Zr-Co. Except for a small increasing fraction of ferromagnetic
clusters, the addition of Co would seem to have mainly a diluting effect
on the observed properties. Ferromagnetism appears to emerge rather
abruptly by an increased polarization of the matrix through an increased
interaction with the growing ferromagnetic clusters. A number of
different observations suggests that there are no significant magnetic
interactions depressing T_(c) in disordered Zr-Co alloys.

## Acknowledgments

We are grateful to A. Ostlund for providing most of the samples and to
Q-R. Zhang for the Ar-quenched sample, to P. E. Werner for his help with
Ref. [10], to L. Khlair for experimental assistance with the magnetic
susceptibility measurements, to J. O. Strom-Olsen and co-workers for an
interesting discussion, and to A. Inoue for communicating Ref. [39]
prior to its publication. Part of this work has been financed by Statens
Naturvetenskapliga Forskningsrld.

## References

* [1] H. S. Chen, in _Amorphous Metallic Alloys_, edited by F. E.
Luborsky (Butterworths, London, 1983), p. 169. * [2] Z. Altounian, J. O.
Strom-Olsen, and J. L. Walter, J. Appl. Phys. **55**, 1566 (1984). * [3]
P. Allia, R. Sato Turtelli, F. Vinai, and G. Rionto, Solid State Commun.
**43**, 821 (1982). * [4] O Rapp and L. Hedman, Phys. Rev. B **30**,
5135 (1984). * [5] S. J. Poon, P. L. Dunn, R. E. Elmquist, and L. M.
Smith, Solid State Commun. **42**, 267 (1982). * [6] E. Babic, Z.
Marohonic, and J. Ivkov, Solid State Commun. **27**, 441 (1978). * [7]
See AIP document No. PAPS-PRBMD-34-4558-19 for 19 pages describing a
photographic method for accurate resistivity measurements applied to
melt-spun Zr-based alloys. Order by PAPS number and journal reference
from American Institute of Physics, Physics Auxiliary Publication
Service, 335 East 45th Street, New York, NY 10017. The prepaid price is
1.50foramicroficheor5.00 for a photocopy. Airmail additional. Make
checks payable to the American Institute of Physics. * [8] O. Rapp, M.
Flodin, A. Ostlund, and H. Fredriksson, Physica Scr. **25**, 804
(1982). * [9] M. G. Karkut, and R. R. Hake, Phys. Rev. B **28**, 1396
(1983). * [10] JCPDS, file No. 23-945 (Joint Committee for Powder
Diffraction Standards) (unpublished), 1601 Park Lane, Swarthmore, PA
19081. * [11] Z. Altounian, T. Guo-hua, and J. O. Strom-Olsen, J. Appl.
Phys. **54**, 3111 (1983). * [12] B. L. Gallagher and D. Greig, J. Phys.
F **12**, 1721 (1982). * [13] A. J. Drehman and W. L. Johnson, Phys.
Status Solidi A **52**, 499 (1979). * [14] K. H. J. Buschow, J. Phys. F
**14**, 593 (1984). * [15] Q-R. Zhang, H. U. Krebs, and H. Freyhardt,
Physica **126B&C**, 1313 (1984). * [16] Z. Altounian and J. O.
Strom-Olsen, Phys. Rev. B **27**, 4149 (1983). * [17] L. Hedman and O.
Rapp, Phys. Lett. **100A**, 251 (1984). * [18] E. Babic, R. Ristic, M.
Miljak, and M. G. Scott, in _Proceedings of the 4th International
Conference on Rapidly Quenched Metals, Sendai, 1981_, edited by T.
Masumoto and K. Suzuki (Inst. of Metals, Sendai, 1982), p. 1079. * [19]
E. W. Collings and J. C. Ho, Phys. Rev. B **4**, 349 (1971). * [20] P.
Oelhafen, E. Hauser, H. J. Guntherodt, and K. H. Benneman, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **43**, 1134 (1979). * [21] O. Rapp, J. Jackle, and K. Frobose, J.
Phys. F **11**, 2359 (1981). * [22] R. H. Fairlie, W. H. Temmerman, and
B. L. Gyorffy, J. Phys. F **12**, 1641 (1982). * [23] F. R. Szofran, G.
R. Gruzalski, J. W. Weymouth, and D. J. Sellmeyer, Phys. Rev. B **14**,
2160 (1976). * [24] N. Heiman and N. Kazama, Phys. Rev. B **17**, 2215
(1978). * [25] S. J. Poon, Phys. Rev. B **31**, 7442 (1985). * [26] J.
Destrey, M. El Amrani, and R. W. Cochrane, Phys. Rev. B **31**, 2499
(1985). * [27] O. Rapp, M. Flodin, and L. Hedman, in _Superconductivity
in d- and f-band Metals–1982_, edited by W. Buckel and W. Weber
(Kernforschungszentrum, Karlsruhe, 1982), p. 351. * [28] G. T. Meaden,
_Electrical Resistance of Metals_ (Heywood, London, 1965), p. 15. * [29]
Z. Altounian, R. J. Shank, and J. O. Strom-Olsen, J. Appl. Phys. **58**,
1192 (1985). * [30] Y. Obi, L. C. Wang, R. Motsay, and D. G. Onn, J.
Appl. Phys. **53**, 2304 (1982). * [31] Z. Altounian, C. L. Foiles, W.
B. Muir, and J. O. Strom-Olsen, Phys. Rev. B **27**, 1955 (1983). * [32]
R. W. Cochrane, J. Destry, and M. Trudeau, Phys. Rev. B **27**, 5955
(1983). * [33] B. L. Gallagher, D. Greig, M. A. Howson, and A. A. M.
Croxon, J. Phys. F **13**, 119 (1983). * [34] J. Ivkov, E. Babic, and R.
L. Jacobs, J. Phys. F **14**, L53 (1984). * [35] D. Pavuna, Solid State
Commun. **54**, 771 (1985). * [36] W. L. McMillan, Phys. Rev. **167**,
331 (1968). * [37]k = −0.028 K/n Ω cm is obtained by −0.025(200/176),
where −0.025 K/n Ω cm was obtained previously (Ref. 21) from α and T_(c)
and a rough average value of ρ = 200 μΩ cm. 176 μΩ cm is an average
value of ρ from Fig. 9. * [38] Z. Altounian, R. Harris, and J. O.
Strom-Olsen, J. Non-Cryst. Solids **614 62**, 1185 (1984). * [39] A.
Inoue, K. Matsuzaki, H. S. Chen, and T. Masumoto, J. Mater. Sci. **21**,
1258 (1986). * [40] P. Lindqvist and O. Rapp, 5th European Physical
Society Meeting on Condensed Matter Physics, Berlin (1985)
(unpublished). * [41] E. Abrahams, P. W. Anderson, D. C. Licciardello,
and T. V. Ramakrishnan, Phys. Rev. Lett. **42**, 673 (1979). * [42] B.
L. Altshuler and A. G. Aronov, Zh. Eksp. Teor. Fiz. **77**, 2028 (1979)
[Sov. Phys.–JETP **50**, 968 (1979)]. * [43] Such an analysis [O. Rapp,
Phys. Rev. B **34**, 2878 (1986)] recently suggested μ^(•) = 0.15 and
k = −0.0292 K/n Ω cm. On the scale of Fig. 10 this has a small influence
on the calculated curve.
