Scaling of the thermoelectric power in a wide temperature range in
Bi₂Sr₂Ca_(1 − x)Nd_(x)Cu₂O_(y) (x = 0-0.5): Experiment and
interpretation

V. E. Gasumyants

Physique des Solides, Code Postale 233, Universite Libre de Bruxelles,
B-1050 Bruxelles, Belgium

N. V. Ageev, E. V. Vladimirskaya, V. I. Smirnov, and A. V. Kazanskiy

Department of Physics of Semiconductors, St. Petersburg Technical
University, 29 Politechnicheskaya, St. Petersburg, 195251 Russia

V. I. Kaydanov

Department of Physics, Colorado School of Mines, Golden, Colorado 80401

6 June 1995; revised manuscript received 28 August 1995

###### Abstract

We report measurements of the thermopower (S) in the temperature range
from T_(c) up to 1000 K, as well as of the resistivity and the Hall
coefficient for temperatures up to T=300 K of single-phase
Bi₂Sr₂Ca_(1 − x)Nd_(x)Cu₂O_(y) compounds with 0<x≈0.5. It was found that
the S(T) dependences in the normal state have three regions of different
thermopower behavior. In the first region, at low temperature (T<100-220
K), the S(T) curves have a smooth maximum, which shifts to higher
temperature as x increases. Then, as the temperature increases, there is
an extended second region where S decreases nearly linearly with T.
Finally, in the third region, at high temperature (T>620 K), the
thermopower demonstrates a temperature-independent behavior for all the
investigated samples. The temperature of the crossover from the second
S(T) region to the third one is unchanged with x. The results are
discussed in the framework of a phenomenological band spectrum model.

pacs: 6 6

## I Introduction

The specific features of the band structure in the normal state is one
of the most important and extensively discussed problems in the physics
of the high-T_(c) superconductors (HTSC). Reliable information on this
subject would be very useful to understand the possible reason for the
high critical temperature in these materials. Different approaches, both
theoretical and experimental, are used to study the band structure.
However, it should be noted that this problem is still unsolved.

One could expect some nonordinary specific features of the electron
spectrum in the vicinity of the Fermi level. One of the reasons for this
conclusion is the unusual behavior of the electron transport properties
in the normal state. The temperature dependence of the resistivity,
ρ(T), for the samples with an optimum doping level for the different
families of HTSC is linear in a wide temperature range with ρ(0)=0.[1]
The Hall coefficient R_(H) rapidly drops with the temperature increase:
R_(H)(T)∝ 1/T.[1, 2] Thermopower value S depends considerably on Hall
carriers density. But what is quite unusual is the very weak dependence
S(T) at high temperature (T>200-300 K) in the YBa₂Cu₃O_(y) system
(Y-123).[3, 4, 5, 6] Various explanations of the latter phenomenon have
been proposed including both single[4, 6, 8] and two-band[9, 10]
pictures, taking into account the presence of a Van Hove singularity
near the Fermi level.[11]

It was shown in our previous publications that all the features of ρ(T),
S(T), and R_(H)(T), for the Y-123 system in the normal phase could be
explained and described quantitatively on the basis of a band spectrum
model that supposes the existence of a narrow peak in the electronic
density of states (DOS) close to the Fermi level.[12, 13, 14, 15, 16]
This approach and the formulas for the transport coefficients
calculation were presented in Ref. [12]. With this analysis, we are able
to determine some band spectrum parameters by a quantitative comparison
of the experimental and calculated temperature dependences of the
thermopower. We have analyzed these parameters dependences on the
samples composition (various oxygen content[13, 17] and different
cations substitutions[14, 15, 16, 17]), and made some conclusions about
the conductive band transformations. In addition, we have observed a
correlation between the band spectrum parameters change and T_(c) value,
under the different deviations from the stoichiometric composition.

The objective of the present work is to test the validity of our model
for Bi-based HTSC. We focus the discussion on the thermopower behavior
in a wide temperature range. First, S(T) dependences of the Bi system
differ essentially from those of Y-123 due to the absence of the
temperature-independent region up to T=300 K.[18, 19, 20, 21] However,
it is this temperature-independent behavior of S that points to the
existence of a narrow band. Therefore, it is not clear whether S(T) of
Bi-based HTSC can be explained within a narrow-band model. Second, the
experimental data concerning a thermopower behavior at T>300 K for this
HTSC system are practically absent, although it can be quite informative
for the band spectrum study.

It is known that the 2212 phase of the Bi system is more stable compared
to the 2223 phase. It gives us the possibility to prepare heavily doped
single-phase samples and to vary the Fermi-level position over a wide
range of energy using nonisovalent substitution for Ca by different
rare-earth elements, R. As a result, a shift of the Fermi level and
possible transformations of the band spectrum exert an effect on the
transport coefficients behavior. The study of such samples with
different composition appears to be a fruitful way of understanding the
mechanism of electron transport in HTSC. Indeed, the
Bi₂Sr₂Ca_(1 − x)_R_(x)Cu₂O_(y) system has been repeatedly investigated
by many authors using different techniques,[22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27]
including thermopower measurements up to T = 300 K for samples with
substitution of Y for Ca.[18, 28, 29]

For the above-mentioned reasons, we have chosen for our investigation
Bi₂Sr₂Ca_(1 − x)Nd_(x)Cu₂O_(y) samples with 0≤x≤0.5. We have measured
the thermopower from _T_(c)_ up to 1000 K, as well as the resistivity
and the Hall coefficient between _T_(c)_ and 300 K. The results are
discussed in the framework of a narrow-band model.

## II II. Experiment

The ceramic samples were prepared by the standard solid-state powder
processing technique from high-purity Bi, Y, and Cu oxides, and Sr and
Ca carbonates. The powders were dried and pressed into pellets. The
samples were calcined at T = 750 degC for 15 h, reground and sintered at
T = 850 degC for 40 h, and then reground and sintered again at T = 860
degC for 40 h in air. The homogeneity of the samples and the absence of
the foreign phases were controlled by x-ray analysis and
magnetic-susceptibility measurements.

The resistivity was measured by the standard four-probe low-frequency ac
(20 Hz) method. The Hall measurements were carried out in a dc magnetic
field of 1.5 T using a lock-in amplifier synchronized at 15 Hz with an
alternating current of 200 mA. For the thermopower measurements, the
sample was kept between two platinum electrodes, and one of them was
heated. The temperature was varied by slowly introducing the sample into
a liquid-helium cryostat (for the temperature range T = _T__(c)-300 K),
or by using a specially constructed furnace (for T = 300-1000 K). The
temperature of the hot and cold ends of the sample was measured by two
Chromel-Constantan thermocouples. The temperature difference between the
two ends of the sample was kept around 3-4 K throughout the measured
temperature range. The absolute thermopower was calculated by correcting
for the thermopower of platinum. The measurements were carried out both
in the heating regime and in the cooling one. The speed of cooling or
heating was about 2-5 K/min. All the measurements of the thermopower
were carried out in air.

## III III. Results

Some results of the resistivity and the Hall coefficient measurements,
as well as the critical temperature, _T_(c)_, defined as the midpoint of
the resistive superconducting transition, are presented in Table 1. The
behavior of both the resistivity and the Hall coefficient shows the
usual features which are characteristic of the investigated system.[1,
2] The ρ(T) dependences are linear in the temperature range measured.
The Hall coefficient increases with decreasing temperature, but this
increase is weaker than for Y-based HTSC. In our measurements _R_(H)_
increases by 20-30

As already noted, the main purpose of this paper is the investigation of
the thermopower temperature dependences. The results of our S versus T
measurements are shown in Fig. 1. It is necessary to note that we have
made several measurements for each sample and the curves of Fig. 1 have
been reproduced several times under the "heating-cooling" cycles over
the temperature range T = _T__(c)-1000 K. In addition, the resistivity
measurements at T = _T__(c)-300 K were repeated after the thermopower
ones, and all the data presented in Table 1 have remained the same. It
is clearly shown that Bi-2212 HTSC system is more oxygen stable as
compared to Y-123. It is well known that, in the latter, the oxygen
deficit increases rapidly due to heating in air above T = 600-800 K.
This loss of oxygen leads to an increase of the thermopower value. As a
result, the _S_(_T_) dependences of Y-123 measured in air become
nonreproducible for cycling measurements over a high-temperature
range.[31, 32, 33]

The thermopower value of Bi₂Sr₂Ca_(1 − x)Nd_(x)Cu₂O_(y)

Figure 1: Absolute thermopower vs temperature for
Bi₂Sr₂Ca_(1 − x)Nd_(x)Cu₂O_(y) samples. The Nd contents x are (in the
order of increasing thermopower) 0, 0.1, 0.2, 0.3, 0.4, and 0.5. The
different symbols are shown the experimental results, the solid line is
the best-fitted curve for the sample with x = 0.5 corresponding to Eq.
(2).

creases with x. This fact points to the increase of the band filling
with electrons, in accordance with the higher substituting element
valence (Nd3+ replaces Ca2+). It can be clearly seen in Fig. 1, that the
_S_(_T_) dependences in the normal states have three characteristic
regions with different thermopower behavior. In the first one (from
T_(c) to 120-200 K, depending on the Nd content) the _S_(_T_)
dependences have a smooth maximum, more and more pronounced and shifted
to higher temperature with increasing x, in agreement with the data of
Refs. [18], [28], and [29] for the substitution of Y for Ca. In fact,
the thermopower behavior in this region, including the _S_(_T_)
variation with x, is analogous to the one of Y-123 with decreasing
oxygen content or doping by nonisovalent impurities, [3, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9,
13, 14, 15, 16, 17] From T = 120-200 K up to 620 K (the second region),
the thermopower decreases nearly linearly with temperature. This is a
well-known specific feature of the Bi system compared to Y-123. It
should be noted that a similar kind of _S_(_T_) behavior in the
temperature region up to T = 300 K has also been observed for the other
HTSC systems such as Nd-, [34, 35] Tl-, [21, 36, 37] and Hg-based
[38-40] ones. Based on these observations and the results of their own
measurements of the thermopower anisotropy in the _ab_ plane of
untwinned YBa2Cu3O7, Cohn _et al._[41] concluded that the thermopower
constancy of Y-based HTSC can be explained by the existence of a very
narrow band which predominates in transport along the CuO chains. On the
other hand, they suggested that the linear decrease of S with increasing
temperature is a common thermopower behavior of the different HTSC
systems associated with the CuO2 plane. Nevertheless, it can be clearly
seen in Fig. 1, that for all our Bi-2212 samples the thermopower
constancy has been observed at T > 620 K [the third region of the
_S_(_T_) curves] in spite of the absence of CuO chains in this HTSC
system. It means that this temperature-independent behavior of the
thermopower at high temperature is a common feature of both the Y-123
and the Bi-2212 HTSC systems. Consequently, in contrast to Ref. [41],
this phenomenon cannot be explained by electron transport along a narrow
band which is associated with CuO chains. According to our data, the
thermopower of Bi-2212 at T > 620 K also demonstrates the canonical
narrow-band behavior. Thus, we believe that our results provide strong
support for the existence of a narrow band not only in Y-123, but also
in Bi-2212 HTSC. In this connection, we would like to note that
Takahashi _et al._[23] by inverse photoemission, Sato, Horiba, and
Nagasaka [26] by transmission spectroscopy and some other authors, also
confirmed the existence of a narrow conductive band in the Bi-2212 HTSC.

Before analyzing the results obtained, one more fact should be noted.
This is the quite drastic transition from the second region of _S_(_T_)
dependences to the third one which occurs at T = 620 K, independently on
the Nd content. It can be mentioned that we have earlier observed the
analogous point of a drastic transition at a constant temperature from
one type of the _S_(_T_) behavior to another one in YBa2Cu3O7 with
different oxygen content. [33] Although the temperature of this
transition was significantly lower (_T_ = 350 K), it seems that the
existence of such a point can be a common feature of the different types
of the HTSC materials.

## IV Discussion

As already noted, the approach used in the present work is founded on
the assumption that a sharp peak in the DOS exists in the band spectrum
of the HTSC materials. Analogous assumption was repeatedly used, in its
different aspects, to explain the specific features of the transport
properties of YBa2Cu3O7 system with different oxygen content. [4, 7, 8,
9, 42] Fisher and co-workers [6, 43] used a narrow-band model to
interpret qualitatively the thermopower and resistivity measurements in
YBa2Cu3O7 samples with some cations substitutions. In the main, much of
the discussion in these papers is centered around the _r_(_T_) linearity
and the _S_(_T_) constancy at high temperature, which are characteristic
of the narrow-band limit. In Ref. [24] a narrow-band model has been used
to describe the crossover from insulating to metallic resistivity in the
case of Bi2Sr2Ca1-_Y_xCu2O7, but without any comparison with thermopower
data. The characteristic of our approach is the possibility to describe
of not only qualitatively, but also quantitatively, the _S_(_T_)
dependences in the whole temperature range above T_(c). As a result, we
can determine some parameters of the band structure by comparison of the
experimental and calculated thermopower temperature dependences.
Besides, it is possible to describe qualitatively the _r_(_T_) and
R_(H)(_T_) dependences using the same values of the parameters of this
model. [17]

Details of our approach have been published in Ref. [17]. Here, we would
like to describe briefly only the main points of our model and,
accordingly, some results of the transport properties of Y-123 HTSC
analysis. As shown in Ref. [17], if the Fermi level e_(f) is located in
the region of a sharp peak of the DOS function, it is its narrowness
that determines the specific features of the transport coefficient
behavior. It should be noted that we do not discuss the nature and
origin of this peak. It can be either a single narrow band or a sharp
DOS peak on a wide band background. In the last case, if the DOS inside
the peak is significantly greater than outside, the normal-state
electron transport will also be determined by the structure and
properties of this peak. If so, the existence of a Van Hove singularity
near the Fermi level can be considered as the most probable reason for
this peak origin. The possibility of the so-called Van Hove scenario in
HTSC is under extensive experimental and theoretical study now. This
approach is used not only for the description of different properties
(including the transport ones, see Ref. [11]), but also for the
explanation of the high superconducting transition temperature. [44] In
this connection, our results of the transport coefficients analysis can
be considered as a support for the plausibility of this scenario. For
simplicity, we will use below the term "narrow band" for both mentioned
cases.

Our model includes three phenomenological parameters. The first of them
is the degree of band filling with electrons F, which is equal to the
ratio of the number of electrons to the total number of states in the
band. The F value determines the sign and the value of the thermopower
in the high-temperature limit (_k__B__T_ > W, where W is the bandwidth,
k_(B) is Boltzmann constant). In this limit, the temperature-independent
thermopower is given by

$$S = \frac{k_{B}}{e}\,\ln\,\frac{F}{1 - F}\,.$$

As shown in Ref. [17], the band narrowness gives the possibility to use
the simplest approximations for the DOS, _N_(_e_), and the differential
conductivity, _s_(_e_), by rectangles of different width. This
approximation makes it possible to derive analytical expressions for the
temperature dependences of the transport coefficients using three
fitting parameters. They are the band filling F, the total effective
bandwidth W_(D), and the effective width of an energy interval of the
electrons which give the main contribution to the electrical conduction
process, W_(σ) (i.e., the "conductivity" effective bandwidth).

In the framework of this approximation, the expression for the
thermopower can be written in the following form:

$$S = - \frac{k_{B}}{e}\left[\frac{W_{\sigma}^{\ast}}{\sinh W_{\sigma}^{\ast}} \right[e^{-\mu^{\ast}} + \cosh W_{\sigma}^{\ast} - \frac{1}{W_{\sigma}^{\ast}}$$
$$\times \left(\cosh\mu^{\ast} + \cosh\ W_{\sigma}^{\ast}\right)\ln\,\frac{e^{\mu^{\ast}} + e^{W_{\sigma}^{\ast}}}{e^{\mu^{\ast}} + e^{-W_{\sigma}^{\ast}}}\Bigg{]} - \mu^{\ast}\Bigg{\}},$$

where

$$\mu^{\ast} = \mu/k_{B}T = \ln\frac{\sinh(FW_{D}^{\ast})}{\sinh[(1-F)W_{D}^{\ast}]},$$

μ is the chemical potential, W_(D)^(*) = W_(D)/2k_(B)T,
W_(σ)^(*) = W_(σ)/2k_(B)T.

It should be noted that we use only three fitting parameters which are
assumed to be temperature independent. Nevertheless, as one can see in
Refs. [13, 17, and 45], there is a good agreement between the
experimental and calculated temperature dependences for all the
transport coefficients. This fact can be considered as an additional
argument in favor of our model.

According to our previous results for Y-based HTSC, the W_(D) and W_(σ)
values are different. This may be due to a different nature of energy
dependences of the N(ε) and σ(ε) function. At the same time, taking into
account the variations of W_(D) and W_(σ) with the oxygen deficit and
the substituting elements content, we came to conclusion [13] that the
most probable reason for the W_(σ)/W_(D) ratio change, under deviations
from stoichiometry, appears to be the Anderson localization of the
states at the band edges caused by lattice disordering. [46] If so, the
decrease of the W_(σ)/W_(D) ratio can be considered as an evidence for
the increase of the degree of localization. Thus, analyzing the changes
of the model parameters we can get some information on peculiarities of
kinetics, dynamics, and scattering of the charge carriers. Besides, we
have observed a correlation between the band-structure parameters and
the T_(c) value in the samples with different substitutions. [13, 14,
15, 16, 17] The deviation from the stoichiometry in YBa₂Cu₃O_(y) causes
a band broadening (W_(D) value increases) and also a Fermi-level shift
from the band center. Both of these effects lead to the reduction of the
N(ε_(F)) value. The latter is believed to be the major reason for the
T_(c) decrease.

We now turn to the results obtained for the
Bi₂Sr₂Ca_(1 − x)Nd_(x)Cu₂O_(y) samples. Obviously, in order to interpret
the S(T) specific features of Bi-based HTSC in the framework of the same
narrow-band model we have to make an additional assumption. It is
necessary to note that Eq. (2) is valid, if we assume the narrow band to
be symmetric. Our previous results have shown this condition to be
satisfied for Y-123 system. In the case of the Bi-based HTSC, we suggest
that there is a slight asymmetry of the band. The simplest method to
take this into account is the introduction of some distance (b W_(D),
where b is the asymmetry parameter) between the N(ε) and σ(ε) rectangles
centers. If so, Eq. (2) still remains valid, if we replace μ, calculated
from Eq. (3), by μ − b W_(D).

Using this approach, we are able to describe quantitatively the
temperature dependences of the thermopower for the investigated samples.
To determine the parameters of our model, we have fitted the
experimental S(T) dependences with the calculated ones to achieve the
best agreement "by eye" in the whole temperature range above T_(c). One
should note, that the different parameters affect different specific
features of the S(T) dependence (details of this influence can be found
in Ref. [17]). As a result, it is possible to determine the values of
the all parameters quite unambiguously. According to our calculations,
the possible error can be estimated as ±0.003 for F and ±10% of
magnitude for W_(D) and W_(σ). Thus, it gives a well-grounded
possibility to discuss the evolution of these parameters with the change
of the sample composition.

As an example, the best-fitted S(T) curve for the sample with x = 0.5 is
shown by the solid line in Fig. 1. It is seen to be in quite reasonable
agreement with the experimental data. Certainly, the "rectangular"
approximation for N(ε) and σ(ε) is very simple and quite crude. As a
result, the calculated dependences of the thermopower are smooth. They
do not demonstrate the drastic transition from the second to the third
region of the S(T) curves which we have observed experimentally. It
seems to be necessary for the best agreement to take into account the
band-structure features in more detail. A more realistic analysis should
consider the possible temperature dependence of the band spectrum
parameters when we deal with a wide temperature range. Nevertheless, we
believe that these present results make it possible to conclude that the
narrow-band model can be successfully used for the Bi-based HTSC.
Besides, it is necessary to note that the calculated ρ(T) and R_(H)(T)
dependences retain all their characteristic features in the framework of
an asymmetric model and are in good qualitative agreement with the
experimental results. In addition, taking into account a band asymmetry,
it is possible to explain the opposite sign of the thermopower and the
Hall coefficient observed for the Bi-based HTSC.

Figure 2 shows the calculated F and W_(D) values as function of the Nd
content. The form of these dependences is very similar to those we
observed in substituted YBa₂Cu₃O_(y) with different deviations from
stoichiometry. [13, 14, 15, 16, 17] The increase of the Nd content in
Bi₂Sr₂Ca_(1 − x)Nd_(x)Cu₂O_(y) leads to increasing value of F (the hole
density decreases in accordance with a higher valence of Nd compared to
Ca) and to a significant transformation of the band.

Note, that the band filling is nonlinear in the Nd content. The F(x)
dependence shows an increase of its curvature as x increases. To explain
this fact, it is necessary to take into account the possible nature of
the band in this material. This question is under intensive
investigation, both theoretically [47, 48, 49, 50] and experimentally.
[24, 26, 27, 28, 29, 27] There are different explanations for the
consequences of the doping of the antiferromagnetic insulator
Bi₂Sr₂RCu₂O_(y) by Ca. Nevertheless, most of the authors suggests that
the new states appear in the vicinity of the Fermi level and, therefore,
a narrow band is immediately formed upon hole doping. The question is
whether the band is formed by the so-called "midgap" impurity states
(similar to the case of doped semiconductors) or by a transfer of states
from the upper band to the lower one due to strong correlation effects.
Although this is a schematic picture only, the important feature is the
rise of the number of states in the band with increasing Ca content. If
so, there are two reasons for the increase of F with x in the
Bi₂Sr₂Ca_(1 − x)Nd_(x)Cu₂O_(y) samples: the increase of the number of
electrons (which should be linear in x) and, at the same time, the
decrease of the number of states in the band. It is clear, that in this
case the F(x) dependence should be non-linear, and its curvature should
increase with x. In this connection, our results seem to be quite
reasonable.

The total effective bandwidth increases gradually with x. At the same
time, this effect is accompanied by an insignificant increase of W_(σ)
(from W_(σ)=40 meV to W_(σ)=65 meV when x runs from 0 to 0.5), i.e., the
W_(σ)/W_(D) ratio gradually and strongly decreases with increasing x.
Thus, the transformation of the band occurs mainly through an
enlargement of the region of localized states near the band edges.
Therefore, we can assume that the effect of the lattice disordering is
of great importance in the case of Bi-based HTSC. The rise of the
disorder with increasing impurity content causes a localization of the
states at the band edges and a broadening of the band which are in a
good agreement with the Anderson localization. On the other hand, the
increase of the effective bandwidth leads to a decrease of the N(ε_(F))
value, which can be considered as the main reason for the reduction of
T_(c). Thus, the correlation between the band spectrum parameters and
the critical temperature revealed earlier for the Y-123 system is
observed also in the case of Bi-2212 HTSC.

It can be noted also, that the values of the effective bandwidth
obtained for the investigated system are close to those of Y-123 (see
our results in Refs. 13-17). Besides, the results obtained are in quite
reasonable agreement with data of Ref. 26, whose authors suggest a
bandwidth in Bi₂Sr₂Ca_(1 − x)Nd_(x)Cu₂O_(y) , with x=0.4-1.0, to be
around or less than 650 meV. As for the band asymmetry, our calculations
show that it is quite slight. The relative energy shift of the N(ε) and
σ(ε) rectangles centers is about 3-5

Thus, the values of the band spectrum parameters, their changes under
influence of deviations from stoichiometry and the possible explanation
of these changes are analogous for Y-123 and Bi-2212 HTSC. As a
consequence, these results clearly demonstrate the similarity of the
main properties of the charge carriers system in these two types of the
HTSC materials.

## V Conclusion

In summary, we have studied the thermoelectric power of the
Bi₂Sr₂Ca_(1 − x)Nd_(x)Cu₂O_(y) (x=0-0.5) compounds in a wide temperature
range from T_(c) to 1000 K. It was found that the region of the linear
decrease of the thermopower with temperature extends up to T=620 K.
Above this temperature, the thermopower is temperature independent for
all the investigated samples.

The temperature-independent behavior of the thermopower at high
temperature provides strong support for the existence of a narrow
conductive band in the band spectrum of Bi-based HTSC. The asymmetric
narrow-band model can be successfully used for the explanation of the
transport properties of the Nd-doped Bi-2212 HTSC, including the
quantitative description of the thermopower in the whole temperature
range measured. The analysis of the experimental results shows that the
main feature of the band spectrum and the nature of its transformation
(under the deviation from the stoichiometric composition) are analogous
for Y- and Bi-based HTSC.

## Acknowledgments

We would like to thank Professor R. Deltour for his interest in the
present work and stimulating discussions. We are also grateful to H.
Hancotte (ULB) for his assistance in the preparation of the manuscript.
One of the authors (V.E.G.) acknowledges the support under the Belgian
National Contract No. SU 02/009.

## References

* [*] Permanent address: Department of Physics of Semiconductors, St.
Petersburg Technical University, 29 Politechnicheskaya, St. Petersburg,
195251, Russia. * [2] Y. Iye, in _Physical Properties of High
Temperature Superconductors III_, edited by D. M. Ginsberg (World
Scientific, Singapore, 1992), and references therein. * [3] N. P. Ong,
in _Physical Properties of High Temperature Superconductors II_, edited
by D. M. Ginsberg (World Scientific, Singapore, 1990), and references
therein. * [4] R. S. Kwok, S.-W. Cheong, J. D. Tompson, Z. Fisk, J. L.
Smith, and J. O. Willis, Physica C **152**, 240 (1988). * [5] J.
Genossar, B. Fisher, I. O. Lelong, J. Ashkenazi, and L. Patlagan,
Physica C **157** 320 (1989). * [6] P. J. Ouseph and M. Ray O’Bryan,
Phys. Rev. B **41**, 4123 (1990). * [7] B. Fisher, J. Genossar, L.
Patlagan, and G. M. Reisner, Phys Rev. B **48**, 16 056 (1993). * [8] V.
V. Moshchalkov, Physica B **163**, 59 (1990); Solid State Commun.
**73**, 777 (1990). * [9] S. Bar-Ad, B. Fisher, J. Ashkenazi, and J.
Genossar, Physica C **156**, 741 (1988).

Figure 2: The total effective bandwidth and the degree of band filling
vs Nd content for Bi₂Sr₂Ca_(1 − x)Nd_(x)Cu₂O_(y) .

* (9) K. R. Krylov, A. I. Ponomarev, I. M. Tsidilkovski, V. I.
Tsidilkovski, G. V. Baznev, V. L. Kozhevnikov, and S. M. Cheshnitski,
Phys. Lett. A **131**, 203 (1988). * (10) A. B. Kaiser and G. Mountjoy,
Phys. Rev. B **43**, 6266 (1991). * (11) D. M. News, C. C. Tsuei, R. P.
Huebener, P. J. M. van Bentum, P. C. Pattnaik, and C. C. Chi, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **73**, 1695 (1994). * (12) S. A. Kaz’min, V. I. Kaidanov, and G.
Leising, Fiz. Tverd. Tela (Leningrad) **30**, 2955 (1988) [Sov. Phys.
Solid State **30**, 1703 (1988)]. * (13) V. E. Gasumyants, S. A. Kazmin,
V. I. Kaidanov, V. I. Smirnov, Yu. M. Baikov, and Yu. P. Stepanov,
Sverkhprovodimost’ (KIAE) **4**, 1280 (1991) [Superconductivity **4**,
1184 (1991)]. * (14) V. E. Gasumyants, V. I. Kaidanov, and E. V.
Vladimirskaya, Chin. J. Phys. **31**, 999 (1993). * (15) E. V.
Vladimirskaya and V. E. Gasumyants, Fiz. Tverd. Tela (St. Petersburg)
**36**, 1002 (1994) [Phys. Solid State **36**, 545 (1994)]. * (16) V. E.
Gasumyants, E. V. Vladimirskaya, and I. B. Patrina, Physica C
**235-240**, 1467 (1994). * (17) V. E. Gasumyants, V. I. Kaidanov, and
E. V. Vladimirskaya, Physica C **248**, 255 (1995). * (18) C. N. Rao, T.
V. Ramakrishnan, and N. Kumar, Physica C **165**, 183 (1990). * (19) L.
Forro, J. Lukatela, and B. Keszei, Solid State Commun. **73**, 501
(1990). * (20) M. F. Crommie, A. Liu, M. Cohen, and A. Zettl, Phys. Rev.
B **41**, 2526 (1990). * (21) S. D. Obertelli, J. R. Cooper, and J. L.
Tallon, Phys. Rev. B **46**, 14 928 (1992). * (22) A. Manthiriam and J.
B. Goodenough, Appl. Phys. Lett. **53**, 420 (1988). * (23) T.
Takahashi, H. Matsuyama, H. Katayama-Yoshida, K. Seki, K. Kamiya, and H.
Inokuchi, Physica C **170**, 416 (1990). * (24) C. Quitmann, D. Andrich,
C. Jarchow, M. Fleuster, B. Beschoten G. Guntherodt, V. V. Moshchalkov,
G. Mante, and R. Manzke, Phys. Rev. B **46**, 11 813 (1992). * (25) C.
Kendziora, L. Forro, D. Mandrus, J. Hartge, P. Stephens, L. Mihaly, R.
Reeder, D. Moecher, M. Rivers, and S. Sutton, Phys. Rev. B **45**, 13
025 (1992). * (26) M. Sato, R. Horiba, and K. Nagasaka, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**70**, 1175 (1993). * (27) M. A. van Veenendaal, G. A. Sawatzky, and W.
A. Groen, Phys. Rev. B **49**, 1407 (1994). * (28) D. Mandrus, L. Forro,
C. Kendziora, and L. Mihaly, Phys. Rev. B **44**, 2418 (1991). * (29) J.
B. Mandal, S. Keshri, P. Mandal, A. Poddar, A. N. Das, and B. Ghosh,
Phys. Rev. B **46**, 11 840 (1992). * (30) P. Mandal, A. Poddar, B.
Ghosh, and P. Choudhury, Phys. Rev. B **43**, 13 102 (1991). * (31) S.
K. Ramaseha, J. Matthews, and K. T. Jacob, Mater. Res. Bull. **25**, 149
(1990). * (32) J. Molenda, A. Stoklosa, and T. Bak, Physica C **175**,
555 (1991). * (33) V. E. Gasumyants, S. A. Kazmin, V. I. Kaidanov, A. Z.
Kublanovskii, and V. I. Smirnov, Sverkhprovodimost’ (KIAE) **6**, 98
(1993) [Superconductivity: Phys. Chem. Technol. **6**, 77 (1993)]. *
(34) X.-Q. Xu, S. J. Hagen, W. Jiang, J. L. Peng, Z. Y. Li, and R. L.
Greene, Phys. Rev. B **45**, 7356 (1992). * (35) W. Jiang, X. Q. Xu, S.
J. Hagen, J. L. Peng, Z. Y. Li, and R.L. Greene, Phys. Rev. B **48**,
657 (1993). * (36) A. B. Kaiser and C. Uher, in _Studies of High
Temperature Superconductors_, edited by A. V. Narlikar (Nova Science,
New York, 1990). Vol. 7. * (37) S. Keshri, J. B. Mandal, P. Mandal, A.
Poddar, A. N. Das, and B. Ghosh, Phys. Rev. B **47**, 9048 (1993). *
(38) Y. T. Ren, J. Clayhold, F. Chen, Z. J. Huang, X. D. Qiu, Y. Y. Sun,
R. L. Meng, Y. Y. Xue, and C. W. Chu, Physica C **217**, 6 (1993). *
(39) K. Isawa, A. Tokiwa-Yamamoto, M. Itoh, S. Adachi, and H. Yamauchi,
Physica C **217**, 11 (1993). * (40) C. K. Subramanian, M. Paranthaman,
and A. B. Kaiser, Phys. Rev. B **51**, 1330 (1995). * (41) J. L. Cohn,
E. F. Skelton, S. A. Wolf, and J. Z. Liu, Phys. Rev. B **45**, 13 140
(1992). * (42) J. Genossar, B. Fisher, and J. Ashkenazi, Physica C
**162-164**, 1015 (1989). * (43) B. Fisher, J. Genossar, L. Patlagan,
and J. Ashkenazi, Phys. Rev. B **43**, 2821 (1991). * (44) K. Gofron, J.
C. Campuzano, A. A. Abrikosov, M. Lindroos, A. Bansil, H. Ding, D.
Koelling, and B. Dabrowski, Phys. Rev. Lett. **73**, 3302 (1994). * (45)
N. V. Ageev, E. V. Vladimirskaya, V. E. Gasumyants, V. I. Kaidanov, and
A. V. Chugreev, Fiz. Tverd. Tela (St. Petersburg) **36**, 1013 (1994)
[Phys. Solid State **36**, 551 (1994)]. * (46) P. W. Anderson, Phys.
Rev. **109**, 1492 (1958). * (47) M. Sasaki, S. Ishihara, H. Matsumoto,
and M. Tachiki, Physica C **185-189**, 1491 (1991). * (48) J. Wagner, W.
Hanke, and D. J. Scalapino, Phys. Rev. B **43**, 10 517 (1991). * (49)
R. Itti, F. Munakata, K. Ikeda, H. Yamauchi, N. Koshizuka, and S.
Tanaka, Phys. Rev. B **43**, 6249 (1991). * (50) S. Ishihara, H.
Matsumoto, S. Odashima, and M. Tachiki, Phys. Rev. B **49**, 1350
(1994).
