Excess interstitial oxygen can be incorporated into insulating La₂CuO₄
by high-pressure oxygenation,1 electrochemical intercalation,2 and
chemical oxidation.3 Bulk superconductivity is observed in samples of
La₂CuO_(4 + δ) prepared by electrochemical oxidation at ambient
temperature with superconducting transition temperatures as high as 45
K. Excess interstitial oxygen atoms in La₂CuO_(4 + δ) are found to be
mobile down to 200 K with profound effects on the electronic and
structural properties. For example, a macroscopic phase separation into
a metallic superconducting oxygen-rich (δ∼ 0.055) and an insulating
antiferromagnetic oxygen-poor (δ∼ 0.012) phases, a miscibility gap, was
observed.4,5 A dependence of T_(c) on cooling-rate, subtleties
associated with intrinsic electronic responses due to doped holes, and
microscopic segregation of doped holes have been reported for the
La₂CuO_(4 + δ) system.6-9

Although the electronic and structural properties of electrochemically
doped La₂CuO_(4 + δ) have been extensively studied and are relatively
clear for δ<0.05, 5,10,11 the region beyond the miscibility gap is much
less understood in spite of the occurrence of the highest value of T_(c)
(∼45 K) in this region.2,10,11 In this paper, we report the studies of
superconducting phases in La₂CuO_(4 + δ) prepared at ambient temperature
by three electrochemical intercalation techniques. Depending on the δ
value and the technique used, stable, metastable and unstable
superconducting transitions are observed. We show that samples close to
equilibrium with a stable T_(c)∼32-34 K can be obtained for 0<δ<0.05,
but high intercalation rates produced nonequilibrium samples. For
δ>0.05, the reaction rates of the three techniques used are too fast and
the samples are nonequilibrium. Phases with transitions greater than 34
K in samples with δ<0.1 are found to be metastable and accessible only
at high intercalation rates at a significant overpotential. A 15-K phase
is observed when the samples are made under conditions approaching
equilibrium by thermal annealing at temperatures between 25 and 110
^(∘)C.

The starting material, La₂CuO_(4 + δ^(′)), was prepared by calcining
thoroughly mixed stoichiometric amounts of La₂O₃ (99.99

Both superconducting transition onset temperatures (T_(c)’s) and the
Meissner signal sizes (χ_(m)’s) from this work and from various groups
are summarized in Figs. 1(a) and 1(b). [10, 11, 15] For T_(c)’s of our
as-charged samples (closed triangles and squares), a phase, we call it
32 K phase hereafter, with a stable T_(c)∼ 32-34 K is observed for
δ<0.05. This is identical to that observed by every group in spite of
the wide differences in oxidation techniques and the initial sample
preparations. This indicates that the phase separation proceeds
extremely fast and samples are close to equilibrium. This is consistent
with a previous neutron diffraction study. [5] Although the 32-K phase
is readily achieved, it is noted that a sample oxidized to δ= 0.03 using
a constant current density of 1 mA/cm² can produce a T_(c) at ∼ 40 K
shown in the inset of Fig. 1(a). The coexistence of two T_(c)’s at ∼ 40
K and ∼ 26 K instead of the common stable T_(c)∼ 32 K indicates the
sample is not in equilibrium. Those two superconducting phases are
metastable and thermal annealing of the sample at 110 degC results in a
single T_(c)∼ 32 K (solid line) similar to that (dotted line) of sample
charged to δ= 0.03 by method (II) as seen in the inset of Fig. 1(a).
These results demonstrated that, even for δ< 0.05, caution should still
be exercised to avoid using too rapid reaction rates and thermal
annealing can bring the sample close to equilibrium. For δ> 0.05,
different T_(c)’s and/or coexistence of two T_(c)’s can be observed at
different δ values depending on the technique used. The inconsistent
occurrences of two coexisting T_(c)’s and the variations in T_(c)’s with
synthesis techniques indicate that the reaction rates of methods (I),
(II), and (III) are already too fast for preparing samples with δ> 0.05.
Those samples in the composition range 0.05<δ<0.1 are not in thermal
equilibrium. This is consistent with a previous electrochemistry study
of intercalated La₂CuO_(4 + δ) charged to δ∼ 0.085. [12] From a plot of
the χ_(m) versus δ, Fig. 1(b), a larger scatter in χ_(m)’s than in the
T_(c) values is apparent. The Meissner signal of a high-temperature
superconductor is a complicated property which depends sensitively on
extrinsic sample properties (such as particle size and grain
connectivity) and measuring conditions (such as applied field). [16, 17,
18] A detailed study of χ_(m)’s of La₂CuO_(4 + δ) will be reported
later.

The highest T_(c) at 45 K can only be obtained for δ> 0.06 prepared by
methods (I) or (II). The reaction rate used in constant potential
technique [identical to method (I)] in Ref. [11] is even faster than
method (II). For instance, to charge a sample to δ= 0.05 by method (I),
the initial current density (∼ 1 mA/cm²) is much larger than 50 mA/cm²
used in method (II) and the time taken is about half of that in method
(II). The most "gentle" process [method (III)] can only produce a T_(c)
at ∼ 42 K. This indicates that the high T_(c) at 45 K, similar to the
40-K transition observed in δ= 0.03, is a nonequilibrium metastable
state created by electrochemical processes with high reaction rates. In
fact, for all samples with δ> 0.05, superconducting properties continue
to develop either at room temperature or upon thermal annealing between
25 and 110 degC. In Fig. 2, we show the time evolution of the Meissner
signal of a typical unstable sample, La₂CuO_(4.064). The curve is a
obtained immediately after the sample was oxidized by method (II). The
transitions at 45 and 32 K are clearly visible. The sample was then
stored at room temperature in a desiccator, T_(c) and χ_(m) were
periodically measured over a six months period. Both the T_(c) and χ_(m)
of the 45-K phase decrease with time and the χ_(m) of the 32-K phase,
with a stable T_(c), increases continuously. A weak T_(c) anomaly,
indicative of a phase at 15 K, also

Figure 1: (a) T_(c)’s of room temperature electrochemically intercalated
La₂CuO_(4 + δ) from literatures and this work. ^(•): J.-C. Grenier _et
al._ (constant potential) (Ref. [11]), —: F. C. Chou _et al._ and P. G.
Radaelli _et al._ (constant current and potential) (Refs. [10] and
[15]), ◼: this work (potential step, after ∼ 6 months), ▴: this work
(constant current, as charged), △: this work (constant current, after ∼
6 months). The inset: Meissner signals of two samples, δ=0.03, charged
by 1 mA/cm² (dashed line: as charged, solid line: annealed at 110 °C for
48 hours) and 50 μA/cm² (dotted line). (b) χ_(m)’s of room temperature
electrochemically intercalated La₂CuO_(4 + δ) from literatures and this
work. ^(•): J.-C. Grenier _et al._ (constant potential) (Ref. [11]), —:
F. C. Chou _et al._ (constant current) (Ref. [10]), ◼: this work
(potential step, as charged), ▴: this work (constant current, as
charged).

develops over time and can be easily seen in the inset of Fig. 2 by
taking the derivatives of the X_(m) curves. The occurrence of the 15-K
phase is particularly intriguing. Thermal annealing at the temperatures
between 25 and 110 ^(∘)C continuously promotes the development of the
15-K phase. For example, in Fig. 3, there is a single transition at 45 K
for a sample charged to δ = 0.065. After annealing at 110 ^(∘)C for 24 h
in air, the 15- and 32-K transitions clearly develop and the Meissner
signal of the 45-K phase disappears. The annealed sample represents a
state approaching equilibrium and the 15-K phase is clearly a
superconducting phase that coexists with the 32-K phase for that δ
value. This coexistence of two T_(c)’s at ∼ 15 and ∼ 32 K is observed
for all annealed samples for 0.05<δ<0.1, independent of the value and
the stability of original T_(c)’s and preparation techniques. It is also
noted that one sample charged to δ = 0.12, with a hole concentration p ∼
0.16 (holes per formula unit), and annealed at 110 ^(∘)C exhibits two
T_(c)’s at ∼ 15 and ∼ 34 K. The high oxygen content of δ = 0.12 can be
achieved by charging to above [method (II)] or below [method (I)] oxygen
evolution potential at ambient temperature or 70 ^(∘)C, respectively.
The possible loss of oxygen due to prolonged annealing between 25 and
110 ^(∘)C was checked by weighing samples using a microbalance. Within
the experimental resolution, Δδ = ± 0.0005, samples annealed for 72
hours at 110 ^(∘)C do not lose oxygen. The drastic reduction of the
Meissner signal upon annealing is, therefore, an intrinsic effect. It
seems to be related to the development of the 15-K phase and/or the
disappearance of the 45-K phase, especially, when the size of
superconducting domain becomes comparable to the penetration depth.
Since no loss of oxygen is expected at room temperature, the continuous
reduction of the X_(m) in Fig. 2 while the 45-K phase disappears and the
15-K phase develops is consistent with the annealing results. Therefore,
the changes in T_(c)’s and X_(m)’s upon annealing are due to thermally
activated rearrangements of interstitial oxygen atoms with the formation
of different superconducting domains. The above results indicate that,
for 0 <δ<0.1, phases with T_(c)’s above 34 K in oxygen intercalated
La₂CuO_(4 + δ) are metastable. The measured T_(c)’s for different
samples after six months are summarized in Fig. 1(a) by the open
symbols.

For δ = 0.065, after annealing at 110 ^(∘)C for only 15 minutes, the
sample is already very close to the final state. This indicates that the
conversion to the 15-K phase corresponds to a very low activation energy
and is possibly related to the local rearrangements of the interstitial
oxygen atoms as reported in the literature.[15] Iodometric titration of
a close to pure 15-K (inset in Fig. 3) phase (δ∼ 0.085) indicates a hole
concentration of p = 0.13± 0.005. Therefore, it is plausible that this
15-K phase is actually related to the reduction in T_(c) observed in
La_(2 − x)(Sr,Ba)_(x)CuO₄ around x = 0.125.[19, 20, 21] This coincidence
strongly suggests that all the anomalies observed in cation substituted
La_(2 − x)(Sr,Ba)_(x)CuO₄ at p ∼ 0.125 are of a common electronic origin
and that a single anomalous low T_(c) exists at this hole concentration.
Hydrostatic pressure at ∼ 6 Kbar can suppress the transition from
high-temperature orthorhombic (HTO) to low-temperature tetragonal
structure (LTT) in Ba-doped La214 and restore T_(c).[22] However, a
characteristic decrease of T_(c) is still present at p ∼ 0.125 at 20
Kbar.[23] In La_(2 − y − x)Th_(y)Ba_(x)CuO₄, the sharp depression of
T_(c) is found to be centered at x − y = 0.125 instead of x = 0.125.[24]
Those are consistent with the suggestion that there is a common
electronic origin for T_(c) suppression. After the LTT structure is
completely suppressed by pressure, the La_(2 − x)Ba_(x)CuO₄ (x = 0.125)
reaches an optimal T_(c) of ∼15 K,[22] which is identical to the T_(c)
at p = 0.125 in doped La₂CuO₄. Indeed, it is recently shown that
carefully prepared (La_(2 − x)Sr_(x))₂CuO_(4 − δ) samples exhibit full
bulk superconductivity except in a very narrow composition range close
to x = 0.0625.[25, 26] This is consistent with both the drastic
reduction of the Meissner signal when the 15-K phase develops and a
single T_(c)∼15 K phase at p = 0.125. The coexistence of two T_(c)’s
seems to suggest another phase separation into two superconducting
phases with T_(c)∼ 32 K and ∼ 15 K for 0.05<δ<0.085. This suggestion is
consistent with the fact that this two-phase region is only observable
in oxygen intercalated samples where excess oxygen atoms are mobile. The
absence of two T_(c)’s and the presence of a T_(c) minimum around x =
0.125 in La_(2 − x)(Sr,Ba)_(x)CuO₄ is, there

Figure 3: Shielding (ZFC) and Meissner (FC) signals of constant
potential intercalated La₂CuO_(4.065). a: as charged, b: annealed at 110
^(∘)C for 24 hours. The inset: Meissner signals of the 15-K phase.

Figure 2: Time evolution of Meissner signals of room temperature
electrochemically (constant current) intercalated La₂CuO_(4.064), the
sample was stored in dessicator at room temperature between
measurements. a: as charged, b: 2 days later, c: 5 days later, d: 15
days later; e: 40 days later, f: 6 months later. The inset: the
derivative of X_(m) (a: as charged, f: 6 months later).

fore, due to the frustration of the phase separation caused by doping
with immobile cations. More detailed studies are required to clarify
this point. It should also be noted that, a superconducting transition
at ∼ 15 K is apparent in some literature reports.[27; 28]

It is well known that nonequilibrium metastable alloys or compounds play
an important role in the unusually high T_(c) values found in some
systems. For example, the equilibrium A-15 phase of Nb₃Ge has a
stoichiometry of 14 to 17 at.

In summary, we have investigated ambient temperature electrochemically
doped La₂CuO_(4 + δ) for 0<δ<0.1. For 0<δ<0.05, although subtle
differences still exist in x_(m)’s, a consistent stable 32-K phase is
relatively easy to achieve. For 0.05<δ<0.1, all samples are
nonequilibrium and phases with T_(c)>34 K are metastable. A 15-K phase
with hole concentration p∼0.125 is observed, indicating that all
depressions in T_(c) in cation substituted La_(2 − x)(Sr,Ba)_(x)CuO₄ at
p∼0.125 are electronically driven from a common origin. The 15-K phase
provides a unique opportunity to further investigate all the anomalies
at p∼0.125 observed in cation substituted La_(2 − x)(Sr,Ba)_(x)CuO₄.

This work was funded in part by the NSF (DMR 9122043 and CHE 9408742),
ARPA (MDA 972-90-J-1001), the Robert A. Welch Foundation (E1207), and
the state of Texas through the Texas Center for Superconductivity at the
University of Houston.

## References

* [1] J. E. Schriber _et al._, Physica C **152**, 121 (1988). * [2] A.
Wattiaux _et al._, C. R. Acad. Sci. (Paris) **310**, 1047 (1990). * [3]
P. Rudolf _et al._, J. Chem. Soc. Chem. Commun. **16**, 1158 (1992). *
[4] J. D. Jorgensen _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **38**, 11 337 (1988). * [5]
P. G. Radaelli _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **49**, 6239 (1993). * [6] E. T.
Arenes _et al._, Physica C **212**, 317 (1993). * [7] P. C. Hammel _et
al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **71**, 440 (1993). * [8] J. H. Cho _et al._,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **70**, 222 (1993). * [9] For a review, see D. C.
Johnston _et al._, in _Proceedings of the Second Workshop on Phase
Separation in Cuprate Superconductors_, edited by E. Sigmund and K. A.
Muller (Springer-Verlag, Berlin and Heidelberg, 1994), pp. 82-100 and
references therein. * [10] F. C. Chou _et al._, Physica C **197**, 303
(1992). * [11] J.-C. Grenier _et al._, Physica C **202**, 209 (1992). *
[12] S. Bhavaraju _et al._, Mater. Res. Bull. **29**, 735 (1994). * [13]
A. I. Nazzal _et al._, Physica C **153-155**, 1367 (1988). * [14] Y.
Maeno _et al._, Physica C **185-189**, 587 (1991). * [15] P. G. Radaelli
_et al._, Phys. Rev. B **48**, 499 (1993). * [16] A. P. Malozemoff _et
al._, Phys. Rev. B **38**, 6490 (1988). * [17] K. Kitazawa _et al._, in
_Proceedings of the International Conference of Superconductivity_,
Bangalore, India, 1990, edited by S. K. Joshi, C. N. R. Rao, and S. V.
Subramanyam (World Scientific, Singapore, 1990), pp. 241-255. * [18] T.
Matsushita _et al._, Physica C **170**, 375 (1990). * [19] A. R.
Moodenbaugh _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **38**, 4596 (1988). * [20] M. Oda
_et al._, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **58**, 1137 (1989). * [21] Q. Xiong _et
al._, Phys. Rev. B **46**, 581 (1992). * [22] S. Katano _et al._, Phys.
Rev. B **48**, 6569 (1993). * [23] M. Ido _et al._, Physica C
**185-189**, 911 (1991). * [24] Y. Maeno _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **44**,
7753 (1991). * [25] T. Nagano _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **48**, 9689
(1993). * [26] P. G. Radaelli _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **49**, 4163
(1994). * [27] E. Takayama-Muromachi _et al._, Phys. Rev. C **207**, 97
(1993). * [28] N. Casan-Pastor _et al._, Physica C **216**, 478 (1993).
