# Fermi surface of the heavy-fermion superconductor PrOs₄Sb₁₂

H. Sugawara,¹ S. Osaki,¹ S. R. Saha,¹ Y. Aoki,¹ H. Sato,¹ Y. Inada,² H.
Shishido,² R. Settai,² Y. Onuki,^(2, 3) H. Harima,⁴ and K. Oikawa

¹Graduate School of Science, Tokyo Metropolitan University,
Minami-Ohsawa, Hachioji, Tokyo 192-0397, Japan

²Graduate School of Science, Osaka University, Toyonaka, Osaka 560-0043,
Japan

³Advanced Science Research Center, Japan Atomic Energy Research
Institute, Tokai, Ibaraki 319-1195, Japan

⁴The Institute of Scientific and Industrial Research, Osaka University,
Ibaraki, Osaka 567-0047, Japan

⁵Neutron Science Laboratory, Institute of Materials Structure Science,
High Energy Accelerator Research Organization, Tsukuba 305-0801, Japan

26 October 2002; published 31 December 2002

###### Abstract

We have investigated the de Haas-van Alphen effect in the Pr-based
heavy-fermion superconductor PrOs₄Sb₁₂. The topology of Fermi surface is
close to the reference compound LaOs₄Sb₁₂ and well explained by the
band-structure calculation based on the FLAPW (full potential linearized
augmented-plane-wave)-LDA (local-density approximation) +U method, where
the 4/f electrons are localized. We have confirmed a highly enhanced
cyclotron effective mass (2.4−7.6)m₀, which is apparently large compared
to the usual Pr-based compounds.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.66.220504 PACS number(s): 74.70.Tx, 71.18.+y,
71.27.+a, 75.20.Hr

The Pr-based compounds in the filled skutterudites have attracted much
attention because of their exotic properties, such as metal-insulator
transition at $T_{\rm{M}}$=60 K in PrRu₄P₁₂¹ and unusual heavy-fermion
(HF) behavior in PrFe₄P₁₂².²-The quadrupolar interaction is thought to
be a key mechanism to explain such anomalous behaviors. Especially for
PrFe₄P₁₂, both the extraordinarily enhanced effective mass
($m_{0}^{\rm{g}}$=81m₀) and the nonmagnetic low-field ordered state
below 6.5 K are inferred to originate from the quadrupolar
interaction.[3, 4, 5]

Recently, PrOs₄Sb₁₂ was reported to exhibit superconductivity below
$T_{\rm{C}}$=1.85 K.[6, 7] From the large specific-heat jump at
$T_{\rm{C}}$, $\Delta C/T_{\rm{C}}$∼500 mJ/K² mol, Bauer _et al._
claimed that PrOs₄Sb₁₂ is the first example of the Pr-based HF
superconductor.[6, 7] They also inferred that the quadrupolar
interaction plays an important role in the HF superconductivity, since
the magnetic susceptibility, specific heat C(T), and
inelastic-neutron-scattering measurements suggest the crystal
electric-field (CEF) ground state to be a non-Kramers doublet carrying
quadrupole moments. The recent Sb-NQR (nuclear quadrupole resonance)
measurement on PrOs₄Sb₁₂ have revealed that the temperature T dependence
of nuclear-spin-lattice-relaxation rate 1/T₁ shows neither a coherence
peak nor T³ like power-law dependence below $T_{\rm{C}}$.[8] The
muon-spin-relaxation measurements suggest an isotropic superconducting
(SC) energy gap,[9] while the anisotropy of thermal conductivity against
the magnetic-field directions indicates that the SC energy gap has point
nodes.[10] Such unusual properties cannot be consistently explained
neither by a conventional isotropic nor by any anisotropic gap
superconductivity reported until now, suggesting some type of HF
superconductivity of this compound.[6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11] In the normal
state above ∼ 4.5 T, Aoki _et al._ reported an anomalous field-induced
ordered phase (FIOP) based on the specific-heat measurements; possibly a
quadrupolar ordering.[12]

In order to understand these unusual properties, it is essential to
determine the electronic structure of this compound and to directly
confirm the highly enhanced effective mass. In this paper, we report the
de Haas-van Alphen (dHvA) experiment on PrOs₄Sb₁₂,[13] which is the most
powerful tool to clarify the Fermi-surface (FS) topology and to
determine the cyclotron effective mass. The experimental result is
compared with the band-structure calculation based on the FLAPW (full
potential linearized augmented-plane-wave)-LDA (local-density
approximation) +U method.

Single crystals of PrOs₄Sb₁₂ and the reference LaOs₄Sb₁₂ were grown by
Sb-self-flux method basically same as in Refs. [14] and [15], using
high-purity elements, 4N (99.99

Figure 1 shows (a) the typical dHvA oscillations and (b) the fast
Fourier-transformation (FFT) spectra in PrOs₄Sb₁₂ for the field H along
(100) direction. The oscillations become detectable just above
$H_{\rm{C2}}$=2.2 T and a faint peak anomaly appears at
$H_{\rm{A}}$∼${}^{\rm{-4.4}}$ T, indicating a slight slope change in the
field dependence of magnetization M(H).[17] This field $H_{\rm{A}}$
almost agrees with the phase boundary of FIOP determined by the C(T)
measurement in the magnetic fields.[12] Above $H_{\rm{A}}$ a small spin
splitting is observed in the dHvA frequencies reflected as beats in the
oscillations, which is frequently observed in the magnetic
materials.[18] The three fundamental dHvA branches α, β, and γ are
identified.

Figure 2 shows the angular dependence of dHvA frequency in PrOs₄Sb₁₂
along with that in LaOs₄Sb₁₂. α- and β-branches have been observed over
the whole field directions in the cubic symmetry, indicating closed FSs.
The branch γ observed only in the limited angular ranges centered at
⟨100⟩ suggests a part of the multiply connected one. The striking
resemblance of the angular dependence of dHvA frequencies between
PrOs₄Sb₁₂ and LaOs₄Sb₁₂ indicates the closeness of FS topology between
the two compounds, and evidences the well localized nature of 4f
electrons in PrOs₄Sb₁₂.

In order to assign the origin of dHvA branches, the band-structure
calculation is carried out using an FLAPW and LDA+U method, in which the
4f electrons in PrOs₄Sb₁₂ is treated as localized. Here, we assume the
Γ₁ singlet to treat the localized 4f² electrons with the cubic symmetry.
The details of the calculation are described in Refs. [19] and [20].
Figures 3 and 4 show the calculated energy-band structure and the FS in
PrOs₄Sb₁₂, respectively. The FS is composed of the 48th and 49th band
hole sheets.

have not been observed in the present experiments. That can be
understood as a large reduction of the dHvA amplitude due to the large
curvature factors A^(*) of these branches; i.e., for H∥⟨100⟩,
|A^(*′)| = 0.08 for the γ branch, whereas |A^(*′)| = 2.72 for the dHvA
branch exhibiting the frequency of F = 0.71×10³ T.

As the most attractive information, we have estimated the cyclotron
effective mass m_(c)^(*) from the temperature dependence of the dHvA
amplitude. The comparison of dHvA frequencies and m_(c)^(*) between
these compounds is given in Table 1.[21] In contrast with the closeness
of the FS topology, the cyclotron effective masses are up to ∼ 6 times
enhanced compared to those in LaOs₄Sb₁₂. The mass enhancement is
apparently larger than those in the ordinary Pr-based compounds such as
PrIn₃ and PrSb,[18] although it is not so large as that in PrFe₄P₁₂.[3]
For the comparison with the mass enhancement estimated from the
specific-heat measurement, we simply estimate the Sommerfeld coefficient
from the FS volume and m_(c)^(*) in the present experiments assuming
spherical FS’s. The estimated value of ∼ 150 mJ/K² mol is still a factor
of 2 or more smaller than that in the specific-heat measurement; Bauer
_et al._ estimated the Sommerfeld coefficient of PrOs₄Sb₁₂ to be 350-750
mJ/K² mol.[6]

We have no definitive explanation for this discrepancy only from the
present information. Nevertheless, a possible origin may be hidden in
the difference of the measuring conditions, such as magnetic field and
temperature; the Sommerfeld coefficient in the specific heat was
estimated at 0 T, and around T_(C) close to the Schottky-like peak at 3
K, while the dHvA measurements were made at high fields of 3−17 T and
lower temperatures of 30-400 mK. If the peak is associated with the
nearby magnetic CEF excited state situated about 8 K above the ground
state,[6, 12] an additional enhancement of effective mass could be
expected from the magnetic instability. As another origin, the
spin-splitting effect should not be discarded. In the present
experiments, we have estimated m_(c)^(*) only for the larger amplitude
spin direction, since the insufficient experimental resolution prevents
to determine the masses for the higher frequencies [α^(′) and β^(′) as
shown in Fig. 1(b)]. Only for β branch with the large amplitude, we
could roughly estimate m_(c)^(*) of the higher-frequency branch β^(′),
which is about 20

It might be informative to compare PrOs₄Sb₁₂ with another Pr-based
filled skutterudite superconductor PrRu₄Sb₁₂ as shown in Table 2.[22]
The localized character of 4f electrons, namely, the closeness of the
FSs with those in LaRu₄Sb₁₂, has been confirmed also in PrRu₄Sb₁₂ based
on the dHvA experiment.[23] On the contrary, the mass enhancement is
quite small in PrRu₄Sb₁₂, which is in sharp contrast to that in
PrOs₄Sb₁₂. For PrOs₄Sb₁₂, the CEF ground state was inferred to be a
non-Kramers doublet carrying quadrupole moments.[6, 7] On the other
hand, Takeda and Ishikawa inferred PrRu₄Sb₁₂ to have the Γ₁ singlet
ground state.[24] On the T_(C) compared with the La references, the two
compounds have different sense; T_(C) for PrOs₄Sb₁₂ is higher than that
for La reference, that is unusual if we take into account that PrOs₄Sb₁₂
contains the magnetic element Pr. It should be also noted that the
superconductivity observed in PrRu₄Sb₁₂ is the ordinary BCS type.[8, 24]
These facts naturally indicate the essential role of the mass
enhancement associated with 4f electrons in the superconductivity of
PrOs₄Sb₁₂.

In summary, we have directly confirmed the heavy mass in PrOs₄Sb₁₂ by
the dHvA experiment, indicating PrOs₄Sb₁₂ to be the first member of HF
superconductor as Pr compound. However, the well localized character of
4f electrons,

Figure 5: Angular dependence of the theoretical dHvA branches in
PrOs₄Sb₁₂. The dHvA branches indicated by the closed marks are
identified by the experiments.

evidenced in the closeness of the FS to those in LaOs₄Sb₁₂, indicates
the uniqueness of this compounds compared to the typical HF
superconductors such as UPt₃ and CeCoIn₅,[25; 26] where the itinerant
_f_-electron model is applicable. From the comparison with another
Pr-based filled skutterudite superconductor PrRu₄Sb₁₂, the quadrupolar
interaction associated with the non-Kramers doublet CEF ground state is
thought to be responsible for the HF superconductivity in PrOs₄Sb₁₂.

We thank Dr. H. Kotegawa, Professor Y. Kitaoka, Professor M. B. Maple,
and Professor K. Miyake for the helpful discussion. This work was
supported by the Grant-in-Aid for Scientific Research from the Ministry
of Education, Science, Sports and Culture of Japan.

## References

* [1] C. Sekine, T. Uchiumi, I. Shirotani, and T. Yagi, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**79**, 3218 (1997). * [2] H. Sato, Y. Abe, H. Okada, T.D. Matsuda, K.
Abe, H. Sugawara, and Y. Aoki, Phys. Rev. B **62**, 15 125 (2000). * [3]
H. Sugawara, T.D. Matsuda, K. Abe, Y. Aoki, H. Sato, S. Nojiri, Y.
Inada, R. Settai, and Y. Onuki, Phys. Rev. B **66**, 134411 (2002). *
[4] Y. Aoki, T. Namiki, T.D. Matsuda, K. Abe, H. Sugawara, and H. Sato,
Phys. Rev. B **65**, 064446 (2002). * [5] L. Hao, K. Iwasa, M. Nakajima,
D. Kawana, K. Kuwahara, M. Kohgi, H. Sugawara, T. D. Matsuda, Y. Aoki,
and H. Sato, in Proceedings of SCES2002, edited by A. Kolodziejczyk _et
al._ [Acta Phys. Pol. B (to be published)]. * [6] E.D. Bauer, N.A.
Frederick, P.-C. Ho, V.S. Zapf, and M.B. Maple, Phys. Rev. B **65**,
100506(R) (2002). * [7] M.B. Maple, P.-C. Ho, V.S. Zapf, N.A. Frederick,
E.D. Bauer, W.M. Yuhasz, F.M. Woodward, and J.W. Lynn, J. Phys. Soc.
Jpn. Suppl. **71**, 23 (2002). * [8] H. Kotegawa, Y. Imamura, M. Yogi,
Y. Kawasaki, Y. Tokunaga, K. Ishida, G.-q. Zheng, Y. Kitaoka, S. Osaki,
H. Sugawara, Y. Aoki, and H. Sato, cond-mat/0209106, Phys. Rev. Lett.
(to be published). * [9] D.E. MacLaughlin, J.E. Sonier, R.H. Heffner,
O.O. Bernal, Ben-Li Young, M.S. Rose, G.D. Morris, E.D. Bauer, T.D. Do,
and M.B. Maple, Phys. Rev. Lett. **89**, 157001 (2002). * [10] K. Izawa,
Y. Nakajima, J. Goryo, Y. Matsuda, S. Osaki, H. Sugawara, H. Sato, P.
Thalmeier, and K. Maki, cond-mat/0209553 (unpublished). * [11] K.
Miyake, H. Kohno, and H. Harima, in Proceedings of LT23, edited by H.
Fukuyama _et al._ [Physica B (to be published)]. * [12] Y. Aoki, T.
Namiki, S. Osaki, S.R. Saha, H. Sugawara, and H. Sato, J. Phys. Soc.
Jpn. **71**, 2098 (2002). * [13] Preliminary results on this work were
presented at SCES 2002; H. Sugawara _et al._, in Proceedings of
SCES2002, edited by A. Kolodziejczyk _et al._ [Acta Phys. Pol. B (to be
published)]. * [14] N. Takeda and M. Ishikawa, Physica B **259-261**, 92
(1999). * [15] E.D. Bauer, A. Slebarski, E.J. Freeman, C. Sirvent, and
M.B. Maple, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter **13**, 4495 (2001). * [16] D.J.
Braun and W. Jeitschko, J. Less-Common Met. **72**, 147 (1980). * [17]
We measured the dHvA effect using a 2f detection, so that the dHvA
signal is proportional to the d²M/dH² in the field dependence of
magnetization M(H). Recently, Tenya _et al._ found that the dM/dH
increases with increasing H at H_(λ) in the dc magnetization
measurement: K. Tenya _et al._, in Proceedings of SCES2002, edited by A.
Kolodziejczyk _et al._ [Acta Phys. Pol. B (to be published)]. * [18] Y.
Onuki and A. Hasegawa, _Hand book on the Physics and Chemistry of Rare
Earth_, edited by K. A. Gschneidner, Jr., and L. Eyring (Elsevier
Science, Amsterdam, 1995), Vol. 20, Chap. 135. * [19] H. Harima, J.
Magn. Magn. Mater. **48-50**, 83 (2001). * [20] H. Harima and K.
Takegahara, Physica B **312-313**, 843 (2002). * [21] The dHvA
frequencies and $m_{\rm c}^{*}$ plotted in Fig. 2 and listed in Table 1
are average values over the field ranges 10−12 T for PrOs₄Sb₁₂ and 8−12
T for LaOs₄Sb₁₂. * [22] We have also found LaOs₄Sb₁₂ to exhibit the
superconductivity below $T_{\rm c}$=0.74 K; H. Sugawara, S. Osaki, M.
Kobayashi, S. R. Saha, T. Namiki, Y. Aoki, and H. Sato (unpublished). *
[23] T.D. Matsuda, K. Abe, F. Watanabei, H. Sugawara, Y. Aoki, H. Sato,
Y. Inada, R. Settai, and Y. Onuki, Physica B **312-313**, 832 (2002). *
[24] N. Takeda and M. Ishikawa, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **69**, 868 (2000). *
[25] N. Kimura, T. Komatsubara, D. Aoki, Y. Onuki, Y. Haga, E. Yamamoto,
H. Aoki, and H. Harima, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **67**, 2185 (1998). * [26]
R. Settai, H. Shishido, S. Ikeda, Y. Murakawa, M. Nakashima, D. Aoki, Y.
Haga, H. Harima, and Y. Onuki, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter **13**, L627
(2001).

                                        PrOs₄Sb₁₂   LaOs₄Sb₁₂   PrRu₄Sb₁₂   LaRu₄Sb₁₂
  ------------------------------------ ----------- ----------- ----------- -----------
  $T_{\rm C}$ (K)                         1.85a       0.74b       1.04c       3.58c
  $\Delta C/T_{\rm C}$ (mJ/K² mol)         500         84b        110c         82c
  Sommerfeld coefficient (mJ/K² mol)    350−750a     36, 45b       59e         37c
  $m_{\rm c}^{*}/m_{0}$ for γ branch       7.6         2.8        1.6e        1.4e

Table 2: Comparison of the superconducting critical temperature
$T_{\rm C}$, superconducting specific-heat jump ΔC divided by
$T_{\rm C}$ ($\Delta C/T_{\rm C}$), Sommerfeld coefficient, and
effective mass $m_{\rm c}^{*}$ in RT₄Sb₁₂ (R=La, Pr, T=Ru, Os).
