Magnetic and transport properties of BaV_(1 − x)Ti_(x)S₃ (0 ≤ x ≤ 0.2)

Kiyotaka Matsuura

Takahiro Wada

Takashi Nakamizo

H. Yamauchi

Shoji Tanaka

Superconductivity Research Laboratory, International Superconductivity
Technology Center, 10-13 Shinomone 1-chome, Koto-ku, Tokyo 135, Japan

3 October 1990; revised manuscript received 12 February 1991

###### Abstract

The magnetic and transport properties of BaVS₃ have been studied. The
sign of the Seebeck coefficient changed from negative to positive around
70 K when the temperature was decreased. This temperature coincided with
the temperature at which not only a metal-semiconductor transition but
also a paramagnetic-antiferromagnetic transition were observed.
BaV_(1 − x)Ti_(x)S₃ (0.0 < x ≤ 0.2) exhibited semiconductive behavior in
the temperature range between 70 and 300 K, where BaVS₃ was metallic. We
suspected that this change was caused by an Anderson localization of the
3d electrons of V ions. It was found that the electrical-conduction
mechanism and the species of charge carriers in semiconductive
BaV_(1 − x)Ti_(x)S₃ changed, depending on the temperature range.

## I Introduction

BaVS₃ is known to have a quasi-one-dimensional anisotropic crystal
structure which is characterized by linear chains of V⁴⁺ running
parallel to the c axis.[1] Each vanadium ion is located at the center of
an octahedron consisting of six sulfur ions. The chains are separated by
large barium ions. The interchain vanadium-vanadium distance was
determined to be 2.805 A which was much shorter than the interchain
distance (along the a axis) of 6.724 A.[1] The crystal structure of
BaVS₃ at room temperature is hexagonal with space group P 6₃/mmc.
Actually BaVS₃ exhibits a structural phase transition from hexagonal to
orthorhombic around 250 K.[2] The temperature dependence of electrical
resistivity of BaVS₃ has a minimum at approximately 130 K.[1] Above this
temperature, resistivity tends to decrease with decreasing temperature,
exhibiting a metallic behavior. As temperature decreases there is a mild
increase in resistivity in the temperature range between 70 and 130 K
and a sharp increase, i.e., a semiconductive behavior, in the
temperature range between 70 and 4.2 K. Thus BaVS₃ exhibits a
metal-to-semiconductor transition around 70 K.

Magnetic susceptibility of BaVS₃ increases with decreasing temperature,
i.e., exhibits a paramagnetic behavior, in the temperature range between
70 and 300 K and has a clear peak at approximately 70 K.[2] Below this
temperature, the susceptibility decreases with decreasing temperature.
It was concluded from Mossbauer measurements[3] for a sample which
contained ⁵⁷Fe substituting for 1

The structural, electrical, and magnetic studies of BaVS₃ and
BaV_(1 − x)Ti_(x)S₃ in which part of vanadium sites were substituted by
titanium which has a 3d⁰ electric configuration was performed late
1970s.[1]⁻[6] Since then, none have been reported for the transport
properties of these sulfides. In this work we prepare BaVS₃ and
BaV_(1 − x)Ti_(x)S₃ ceramics, and characterize them in terms of
electrical resistivity, dc magnetic susceptibility, thermoelectric
power, Hall effect, and magnetoresistance.

## II Experimental procedure

BaV_(1 − x)Ti_(x)S₃ ceramics were prepared for five different
compositions with x = 0.0, 0.05, 0.10, 0.15, and 0.20. Samples were
synthesized by the following procedure. Highly pure powders of BaCO₃,
V₂O₅, and TiO₂ were mixed in ethanol for the cation ratio of
[Ba]:[V_(1 − x)Ti_(x)] = 1:1. The mixed powder was calcined at 660 degC
for 5 hr in H₂S-Ar mixture gas flow and then slowly cooled to room
temperature. The resultant powder was ground and the calcination was
repeated three times. The calcined powder was pressed into pellets which
were again calcined at 660 degC for 5 hr in H₂S-Ar mixture gas flow and
then slowly cooled to room temperature. The pellets were then heated in
evacuated quartz ampoules at 800 degC for 20 hr to obtain black
ceramics.

Electrical resistivity was measured employing a standard four-probe
technique. dc magnetic susceptibility was measured using a
superconducting quantum interference device (SQUID) magnetometer
(Quantum Design: MPMS). Thermoelectric power measurements were made in
the temperature range of 40 K to room temperature applying a temperature
difference of ∼0.3 K. Hall effect measurements were made at 100 K using
magnetic fields of ±10 T and electric currents of ±50 mA. The size of
the samples used for the Hall coefficient measurements was
0.22×2.16×4.29 mm³. Magnetoresistance was measured employing a standard
four-probe technique at 80 K in the range of magnetic field from 0 to 6
T using a constant current of 1 mA. Since a capacitance sensor
(LakeShore Cryotronics, Inc.: Model CS-501GR) was used for temperature
monitoring in the magnetoresistance measurements, the temperature
stability, _dT/T_, was better than 0.05

## III Results

### BaVS₃

The temperature dependence of electrical resistivity of the present
BaVS₃ sample is shown in Fig. 1. The result was similar to that
previously reported.[1] The magnitude of resistivity was of the order of
10⁻³Ω cm and the temperature dependence was metallic in the temperature
range between 130 and 300 K. That is, there was a minimum in resistivity
at 130 K as previously reported.[1] Resistivity slowly increased as
temperature decreased from 130 down to 70 K. As temperature decreased
further below 70 K resistivity sharply increased. This sharp increase
may indicate that a metal-to-semiconductor transition took place around
70 K. As temperature decreased in the temperature range of 25 and 20 K,
the rate of the increase resistivity was less than that in the upper
temperature range.

The temperature dependence of dc magnetic susceptibility of the present
BaVS₃ sample is shown Fig. 2. This result was also similar to that
previously reported.[2] The temperature dependence of susceptibility was
Curie-Weiss-like in the temperature range between 70 and 300 K,
exhibiting a paramagnetic behavior. At 70 K, a sharp cusp appeared and,
at temperatures below 70 K, the susceptibility sharply decreased on
cooling, exhibiting a paramagnetic behavior. Susceptibility had a
minimum at 25 K and, at temperatures below 25 K, it increased again on
cooling.

Thermoelectric power of the BaVS₃ sample was measured in the temperature
range between 40 and 300 K. The temperature dependence of Seebeck
coefficient is shown in Fig. 3. The Seebeck coefficient at 300 K was
relatively large being equal to −43 μV/K which was of the same order of
−54 μV/K previously reported by Gardner _et al.[1]_ On cooling, (1) the
Seebeck coefficient changed the sign from negative to positive around 70
K and the absolute magnitude of the Seebeck coefficient decreased down
to 70 K and increased below 70 K. The experimental facts (1) and (2)
indicated that there was a metal-to-(p-type) semiconductor transition
around 70 K if a single-band model was employed.

The Hall coefficient, R_(H), for BaVS₃ at 100 K was negative being equal
to −2.5 x 10⁻³ cm³/C. If a single-band model is used, the charge
carriers are holes, the density of holes being approximately equal to
2.5 x 10²¹ cm⁻³.

### BaV_(1 − x)Ti_(x)S₃

The temperature dependence of electrical resistivity of Ti-doped
samples, BaV_(1 − x)Ti_(x)S₃ (0.0  ≤ x≤ 0.2), are shown in Fig. 4. Even
with a small amount (5

The temperature dependence of the Seebeck coefficient for
BaV_(0.8)Ti_(0.2)S₃ in the temperature of 300 to 40 K is shown in Fig.
5. As temperature decreased, BaV_(0.8)Ti_(0.2)S₃ exhibited
semiconductive behavior in the temperature

Figure 1: Temperature dependence of electrical resistivity for BaVS₃.

Figure 3: Temperature dependence of Seebeck coefficient for BaVS₃.

Figure 2: Temperature dependence of magnetic susceptibility for BaVS₃.

ranges between 300 and 150 K and also between 70 and 40 K. If a
single-band model was employed, the carriers were electrons in the
temperature range of 300 to 150 K, and holes in the temperature range of
70 to 40 K. In the middle temperature range (i.e., between 150 and 70
K), two kinds of carriers could coexist. The Seebeck data were thus not
contradictory to the resistivity result shown in Fig. 4 that
BaV_(0.8)Ti_(0.2)S₃ was semiconductive throughout the temperature range
between 40 and 300 K.

The temperature dependence of dc magnetic susceptibility of
BaV_(1 − x)Ti_(x)S₃ (0  ≤ x≤ 0.2) is shown Fig. 6. The
antiferromagnetism seems to be destroyed even by 5

The magnetic field dependence of electrical resistivity of
BaV_(0.8)Ti_(0.2)S₃ at 80 K is shown in Fig. 7. As the strength of the
magnetic field increased, electrical resistivity linearly decreased, and
the resistivity in an applied field of 6 T was about 0.7

## IV Discussion

### BaVS₃

The previously reported transition around 70 K in BaVS₃ (Refs. 1-3 and
5) was reconfirmed in terms of both resistivity and magnetic
susceptibility measurements. Moreover, the Seebeck coefficient
measurement supported the existence of such a the transition and led us
to the conclusion that the transition is not a structural phase
transition but a metal-to-semiconductor transtion.

From the resistivity data for the temperature range between 4.2 and 20
K, the existence of an impurity level due to excess V is suspected.
Using an Arrhenius plot, the depth of the impurity level below the
bottom of the conduction band is estimated to be around 1.3 meV. As
temperature exceeds 20 K, the electrons from the impuri

Figure 4: Temperature dependence of electrical resistivity for
BaV_(1 − x)Ti_(x)S₃ (x=0.00, 0.05, 0.20).

Figure 5: Temperature dependence of the Seebeck coefficient for
BaV_(0.8)Ti_(0.2)S₃.

Figure 6: Temperature dependence of magnetic suscpetibility for
BaV_(1 − x)Ti_(x)S₃ (x=0.00, 0.05, 0.20).

Figure 7: Magnetic field dependence of resistivity for
BaV_(0.8)Ti_(0.2)S₃.

to level are exhausted until another excitation of electrons (probably
for the valence band) starts around 25 K. If this activation process is
of the intrinsic semiconductor type, i.e., both electrons and holes are
created by thermal activation, the activation: energy involved in this
process may be estimated to be about 160 meV. Above 70 K, a change in
the electronic structure occurs, leading to metallic behavior.
Magnetically speaking, when temperature is lower than 20 K, the
paramagnetic contribution dominates, while the material is predominantly
antiferromagnetic between 25 and 70 K.

### BaV_(1 − x)Ti_(x)S₃

Assuming that the susceptibility curve obeys the Curie-Weiss law in the
high temperature range, the spin value for the V site was obtained in
terms of the Ti content, x, as shown in Fig. 8. In this calculation, the
value of 2.0 was employed for Lande’s g factor because there were no
contributions from the orbital magnetic moment in the 3d transition
metals. For the sample with x = 0.0, the spin value was obtained to be
0.31. This value is 62

The Ti-content dependence of resistivity and of the spin value may be
explained using the model proposed by Massenet _et al.[5]_ as
schematically shown in Fig. 9. When all the V ions are isolated, the
five fundamental _d_-wave functions are degenerate. In case of a perfect
sulfur octahedral symmetry of the V environment, degenerated wave
functions are split into two energy levels, namely, two orbitals (d_(x)
and d_(y)) in the higher energy level and three orbitals (d_(z),_d__xy_,
and _d__x_2-_y_2) in the lower energy level. Since the actual sulfur
octahedral extended slightly along the c axis, the orbitals in the lower
energy level are split into a fundamental doublet corresponding to two
orbitals extending principally in the _x_-_y_ plane and a higher energy
singlet, _d__z_2. The short distance which separates neighboring V atoms
along a single chain leads to a large overlap of the _d__z_2 orbitals so
that, in the actual crystal, the _d__z_2 orbital should form a band. The
d_(y) and _d__x_2-_y_2 which are actually tilted with respect to the
_x_-_y_ plane also overlap with the nearest neighbor these orbitals,[6]
but to a lesser extent, and should form a narrow band with high density
of states. In the _d__z_2 band, the V electrons contribute little to
magnetism since they are essentially delocalized. In the d_(y) and
_d__x_2-_y_2 bands, the V electrons contribute to magnetism as they are
nearly localized. Assuming that the bottom of the _d__z_2 band lies
lower than the d_(y) and _d__x_2-_y_2 narrow band in which the Fermi
level lies, as shown in Fig. 9, the physical properties of

Figure 8: Variation of spin at the V site in Ti-doped BaVS₃ as a
function of titanium content, _x_: ○, present work; ×, calculated from
the data of Massenet _et al._ (Ref. [5]).

Figure 9: The model of Massenet _et al._ (Ref. [5]) for nearest-neighbor
sulfur environment at a vanadium site and corresponding electron level
diagrams for one vanadium site as well as for a chain of vanadium sites:
◆, vanadium atom; ○, sulfur atom.

BaV_(1 − x)Ti_(x)S₃ are explained as follows. First, since the spin
value at a V site was 0.31 for the sample with x = 0.0, we infer that
about 62

The semiconductive property of BaV_(0.8)Ti_(0.2)S₃ at temperatures above
70 K indicated that the carriers were localized by a certain mechanism
such as the Mott model [7] or the Anderson model. [8]
BaV_(1 − x)Ti_(x)S₃ clearly exhibited a negative magnetoresistance, as
shown Fig. 7. Thus it is likely that an Anderson localization took place
by substituting Ti for the V sites in BaVS₃.

Electrical resistivity (log₁₀ρ) of BaV_(0.8)Ti_(0.2)S₃ is shown as a
function of the inverse temperature (1/T) in Fig. 10. A curve fitting to
the data within a temperature range between 90 and 300 K using the
following expression for a thermal activation process:

ρ(T) = ρ(0)exp (ε/k_(B)T)
(1)

is shown in Fig. 10, where ρ(0) is a constant and ε is the activation
energy, k_(B) is Boltzmann’s constant, and T is temperature. The
activation energy utilized for the solid line in Fig. 10 was ∼ 71 meV.
Thus it seems that, in this high temperature range, the major mechanism
for the electrical conduction is an activation type. This indicates that
the electrons can be excited to the mobility edge which lies ∼ 71 meV
above the Fermi level when an Anderson localization takes place. The
log₁₀ρ-versus-(1/T^(1/2)) plot for BaV_(0.8)Ti_(0.2)S₃ is shown Fig. 11.
The data within a temperature range between 35 and 150 K were fitted to
the expression for one-dimensional variable range hopping: [9]

ρ(T) = ρ(0)exp [T(0)/T]^(1/2) ,
(2)

where T(0) is a characteristic temperature. It seems that the major
mechanism for electric conduction is one-dimensional variable-range
hopping type for Anderson localization with the characteristic
temperature of 2.2×10⁴ K in this low temperature range. The sample with
x = 0.0 exhibited a metallic behavior. As x increased, the electrons get
Anderson-localized because of the introduced randomness. In the low
temperature range, electric conductivity was carried by the electrons
hopping among the localized states in the valence band.

## V Conclusion

From the Seebeck data, it was concluded that the species of charge
carriers in BaVS₃ was changed around 70 K from electrons to holes on
cooling if a single-band model was employed. That is, the observed
metallic behavior in the temperature range between 70 and 300 K was due
to electrons, and the semiconductive behavior in the temperature range
between 40 and 70 K was due to holes.

BaV_(0.8)Ti_(0.2)S₃ exhibited a metal-to-semiconductor transition as x
increased, i.e., as the substitution of V proceeded in BaVS₃. This
transition was thought to be caused by an Anderson localization, as
evidenced by negative magnetoresistance. It was found that the
electrical conduction mechanism for semiconductive BaV_(1 − x)Ti_(x)S₃
was different depending on the temperature range. That is, the
electrical conduction was carried by a variable-range hopping mechanism
in the low temperature range and changed to a thermal activation type at
high temperatures. It was also found that the species of charge carriers
were depending on the temperature range. Assuming a single-band model,
the charge carriers were suspected to be holes in the low temperature
range and electrons in the high temperature range.

###### Acknowledgements.

We are grateful to Professor T. Fujiwara of the University of Tokyo, Dr.
T. Ito and K. Kubo of SRL-ISTEC for their helpful discussions. We should
also like to thank Professor S. Uchida, Dr. H. Takagi, and H. Eisaki of
the University of Tokyo, and T. Kawano of SRL-ISTEC for their help in
the Seebeck measurement. We are indebted to S. Koriyama and S. Ikegawa
for their kind help in the Hall measurements

## References

* [1] R. A. Gardner, M. Vlasse, and A. Wold, Acta Crystallogr. B **25**,
781 (1969). * [2] M. Takano, H. Kosugi, N. Nakanishi, M. Shimada, T.
Wada, and M. Koizumi, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **43**, 1101 (1977). * [3] O.
Massenet, R. Buder, J. J. Since, C. Sohlenker, J. Mercier, J. Kelber,
and G. D. Stucky, Mater. Res. Bull. **13**, 187 (1978).

* [44] T. Wada, M. Simada, and M. Koizumi, J. Solid State Chem. **33**,
357 (1979). * [45] O. Massenet, J. J. Sincee, J. Mercier, M. Avignon, R.
Buder, V. D. Nguyen, and J. Kelber, J. Phys. Chem. Solids **40**, 573
(1979). * [46] M. Weger, Philos. Mag. **24**, 1095 (1971). * [47] N. F.
Mott, Adv. Phys. **21**, 785 (1972). * [48] P. W. Anderson, Phys. Rev.
**109**, 1492 (1958). * [49] N. F. Mott, Philos. Mag. **19**, 835
(1968).
