# Superconductivity in LuGe₂

Y. R. Chung, H. H. Sung, and W. H. Lee*

Department of Physics, National Chung Cheng University, Ming-Hsiung,
Chia-Yi 621, Taiwan, Republic of China

Received 4 March 2004; revised manuscript received 9 June 2004;
published 30 August 2004

###### Abstract

We report the discovery of a superconductor LuGe₂. Magnetic and
electrical measurements showed that the transition temperature T_(c) =
2.6 ± 0.1 K. Powder x-ray diffraction patterns indicate that this
compound has the orthorhombic ZrSi₂-type structure with space group
C_(mcm). A refinement of the lattice parameters of the unit cell,
determing by the method of least squares using the thirteen intense
reflections for 2 θ < 60deg, showed that a = 0.3969(9), b = 1.5553(3),
and c = 0.3839(9) nm. In addition, no superconducting transition above
1.8 K was observed for the nonstrochiometric compound LuGe_(1.5) with
AlB₂-type structure.

pacs: PACS number(s): 74.62.Bf, 61.66.Fn, 74.70.Ad + Footnote †:
preprint: PHYSICAL REVIEW B **70**, 052511 (2004)

Three superconducting rate-earth digramides, namely, ScGe₂ (T_(c) =
1.30−1.31 K), YGe₂ (T_(c) = 3.8 K), and LaGe₂ (T_(c) = 1.49 K) were
discovered by Matthias _et al._ 46 year ago.[1] Recently, two
superconducting germanides with AlB₂-type structure Y₂PdGe₃ (Refs. 2-4)
and Y(Pt_(0.5)Ge_(1.5)) (Ref. 5), have been reported. It looks that
previous literature presents far less information in the structure or
superconducting properties for the germanides than for the silicides or
borides. The AlB₂-type structure has been noticed to be a possible
structure for high T_(c) superconductor since the gaining knowledge of
superconductivity at 39 K in MgB_(2.6) Earlier x-ray diffraction data
showed that the nonstoichiometric compounds RGe_(2.x) (R = Y, Nd, Sm,
Gd-Lu) exhibited AlB₂-type structure and displayed additional diffracted
intensities suggesting ordering of the Ge vacancies.[7, 8] Inspite of
the fact that nonsynectroductively observed in these nonstoichiometric
rate earth germanides with AlB₂-type structure, we have found that the
lutetium digramide LuGe₂, which crystallizes in an orthorhombic
ZrSi₂-type structure with space group C_(mcm).[9, 10] displays a
superconducting phase transition at 2.6 ± 0.1 K as determined from
direct current (dc) susceptibility and electrical resistivity
measurements.

Polycrystalline samples investigated for this work were synthesized by
arc melting together appropriate amounts of the components on a
water-cooled Cu hearth in 1 atm of high-purity argon gas in which a Zr
button used as an oxygen getter had been previously arc melted. The
rare-earth element (Lu) of 99.9

Figure 1: Room temperature powder x-ray-diffraction patterns of LuGe₂
using Cu K_(α) radiation. The one less intense peak line with × mark
belongs to the impurity phase of Ge(111) line.

Figure 2 displays the temperature dependence of magnetization measured
on a bulk sample of about 0.15 g mass in a Quantum Design
superconducting quantum interference device magnetometer. The
measurements were carried out in a magnetic field of 10 Oe on heating
after zero-field cooling (ZEC) and then on cooling in field (FC). The
ZFC curve for the sample LuGe₂ show sharp transition from paramagnetic
state to superconducting state around 2.6 K and reach saturation at the
lower temperature. It is seen that the 10-90

dc electrical resistivity measurements were made between 1.8 and 300 K
using a standard four-probe technique in a system fully automated for
temperature stability and data acquisition.[11] The sample was small
rectangular parallelepiped of approximate dimensions 1 × 1 × 5 mm³. Fine
platinum wires (∼2 ml diameter) were spot welded to the
rectangular-shaped sample, and served as the voltage and current leads.
Data were taken with the current (10 mA) applied in both directions to
eliminate possible thermal effects. All data presented are for the
warming curve. For each point of the resistivity measurements,
temperature control was achieved to an accuracy of 0.1

As a concluding remark, we found that the binary lutetium digermanide
LuGe₂ exhibits superconductivity with T_(c) ∼ 2.6 ± 0.1 K, as
characterized by the magnetic and resistivity data. Irrespective of the
high-T_(c) in MgB₂ with AlB₂-type structure, no superconductivity has
been reported for the nonstoichiometric rare earth germanides YGe_(1.5)
(Ref. [14]) and LaGe_(1.5) (Ref. [15]) with AlB₂-type structure. In
fact, we

Figure 4: Electrical resistivity vs temperature between 1.8 and 4.0 K
for LuGe₂.

Figure 3: Electrical resistivity vs temperature between 1.8 for 300 K
for LuGe₂.

Figure 2: Temperature dependence of the ZFC and magnetization data for
the compound LuGe₂ measured in a field of H = 10 Oe between 1.8 and 4.0
K.

also found that the nonstoichiometric yttrium silicide YSi_(1.7) could
form single-phased AIB₂-type structure but no superconducting signal was
detected above 1.8 K.[16] Among the rare-earth digramides having the
same electron concentration, only those with the ThSi₂-type structure
(YGe₂) and (LuGe₂) (Ref. [14] and [17]) and the ZrSi₂-type structure
(ScGe₂) and LuGe₂ (Refs. [9], [10], and [14]) have been found to be
superconducting.

This research was supported by the National Science Council of the
Republic of China under Contract No. NSC92-2112-M194-010.

## References

* [1] B. T. Matthias and W. H. Zachariasen, Phys. Rev. **112**, 89
(1958). * [2] S. Majumdar and E. V. Sampathkumaran, Phys. Rev. B **63**,
172407 (2001). * [3] E. V. Sampathkumaran, S. Mujumdar, W. Schneider, S.
L. Molodtsov, and C. Laubschat, Physica B **312-313**, 152 (2002). * [4]
S. Takano, Y. Iriyama, Y. Kimishima, and M. Uehara, Physica C **383**,
295 (2003). * [5] H. Kito, Y. Takano, and K. Togano, Physica C **377**,
185 (2002). * [6] J. Nagamatsu, N. Nakagawa, T. Muranaka, Y. Zenitani,
and J. Akimitsu, Nature (London) **410**, 63 (2001). * [7] I. Ijjaali,
G. Venturini, and B. Malaman, J. Alloys Compd. **284**, 237 (1999). *
[8] G. Veturini, I. Ijjaali, and B. Malaman, J. Alloys Compd. **284**,
262 (1999). * [9] V. N. Eremenko, K. A. Meleshevich, Yu. I. Buyanov, and
V. M. Petyukh, Dopov. Akad. Nauk. Ukr. RSR, Ser. A: Fiz.-Mat. Tekh.
Nauki **49**, 78 (1987). * [10] M. Francois, G. Venturini, B. Malaman,
and B. Roques, J. Less-Common Met. **160**, 197 (1990). * [11] Quantum
Design. Inc., San Diego, CA. * [12] D. Saint James and P. G. de Gennes,
Phys. Lett. **7**, 306 (1963). * [13] J. G. Park, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**16**, 1196 (1966). * [14] O. Schob and E. Parthe, Monatsch. Chem.
**95**, 1466 (1964). * [15] E. I. Gladyshevkii, J. Struct. Chem. **5**,
523 (1964). * [16] Unpublished. * [17] I. B. Kavich, P. I. Shevchuk, O.
I. Bodak, and L. A. Muratora, Ukr. Fiz. Zh. (Russ. Ed.) **20**, 1639
(1975).
