Influence of carrier injection on the metal-insulator transition in
electron- and hole-doped R_(1 − x)A_(x)NiO₃ perovskites

J. L. Garcia-Munoz and M. Suaaidi

Instituto de Ciencia de Materiales de Barcelona, Consejo Superior de
Investigaciones Cientificas, E-08193 Bellaterra, Spain

M. J. Martinez-Lope and J. A. Alonso

Instituto de Ciencia de Materiales de Madrid, Consejo Superior de
Investigaciones Cientificas, Serrano 113, E-28003 Madrid, Spain

27 June 1995

###### Abstract

The influence of the distortion and the extra-carrier injection upon the
first-order metal-insulator transition has been investigated in
electron- and hole-doped series of R_(1 − x)A_(x)NiO₃ perovskites. The
temperature-driven metal-insulator transition is progressively
suppressed by either electron or hole doping of these charge-transfer
nickelates. The suppression rates $dT_{\rm MI}/dx$ experimentally found
are strongly independent on the cationic dopant (A : Sr²⁺,Ca²⁺,
Th⁴⁺,Ce⁴⁺) and not only on its ionic valence. The origin of such
differences is proven to be twofold: first, the mean size of atoms at
the rare-earth (R) site, that modifies the Ni-O-Ni bond angle, and
second, intrinsic electronic effects associated with the carrier
injection (electron or holes) into the Ni-O bond. Analysis of the
structural modifications and resistivity data have allowed us to
separate both effects. By applying the appropriate R-size corrections,
the obtained bare suppression rates for the intrinsic effects of doping
are $\partial T_{\rm MI}/\partial x^{\infty}$∼−3200 K for divalent
cations (hole doping) and
$\partial T_{\rm MI}/\partial x^{\infty}$∼−1200 K in the case of
tetravalent substitutions (electron doping). It is shown that the
injection of holes probably in oxygen p-like impurity states is about
three times more effective than supplying electrons into 3d-like
impurity bands for the closing of the charge-transfer gap. The origin of
the reported electron-hole asymmetry is also discussed.

## I Introduction

The electronic structure of transition-metal (TM) oxides has been a
controversial topic during the past 50 years. To this extensive group of
materials belong systems such as VO₂, V_(N)O_(2N − 1), Ti₂O₃ , the
superconducting cuprates, and the ferromagnetic perovskites with
colossal magnetoresistance R_(1 − x)A_(x)MnO₃ . It is by now widely
accepted that strong correlation effects often present in this family of
materials are at the origin of their fascinating electrical and magnetic
properties. However, their inherent complexity does not favor the
pursued overall understanding of the microscopic electronic processes
that determine such a rich variety of behaviors.

Metal-to-insulator (MI) transitions, in particular, are a rich source of
information on the fundamental electronic energies determining the
conductivity and nature of the relevant bands in 3d transition-metal
compounds. The Mott [1] and Hubbard [2] approaches have been
successfully applied, especially to the early (Ti-Cr) TM compounds. [3]
On another hand, the late transition-metal oxides such as the nickelates
and cuprates are believed not to be of the Mott-Hubbard class but of a
charge-transfer CT type, [4] characterized by an oxygen 2p-like band
(higher in energy than the lower Hubbard band) and a 3d-like upper
Hubbard conduction band.

Within this context, the simple perovskites RNiO₃ (R = La,Pr,Nd,Sm, ...)
are very appealing and have stimulated great interest, since they were
proposed as paradigmatic examples of CT insulators. They are the only
known transition-metal oxides located at the boundary that separates
"low-Δ metals" from "charge-transfer insulators" in the framework
developed by Zaanen, Sawatzky, and Allen. [4, 5] They undergo a
first-order MI transition at a characteristic temperature that depends
on the degree of distortion of the perovskite structure. [6, 7] Very
little work, however, was done on their properties before 1991, [8]
basically because of the difficulty of their preparation, since elevated
temperatures and high oxygen pressures are required to stabilize the
NiII ion.

In Ref. [6] we broached the structural evolution across the MI
transition of the pure nickel perovskites RNiO₃ , giving evidence of
subtle structural anomalies accompanying the electronic localization. It
was thus shown that the transition from a delocalized behavior of 3d
electrons into an insulating state is followed by an abrupt but very
slight variation in the lattice parameters. Such variation in the
expression of changes in the structural arrangement that basically
consist of an isotropic expansion of the Ni-O bond given by
$\Delta d_{\rm Ni-O}$≈+ 0.004 A (M→I). This modification accounts for
the observed volume expansion at TMI : ΔV/V≈−0.25

In addition, the electronic localization in PrNiO₃ and NdNiO₃ is
followed by an unusual overall antiferromagnetic ground state of wave
vector **k** = (1/2, 0, 1/2), with alternated ferromagnetic (F) and
antiferromagnetic (AF) couplings that suggest a nonuniform orbital
distribution of the single e_(g) electron. [9]

The investigation of the undoped nickelates has been extended to
specimens where the R³⁺ site is partially occupied by divalent and
tetravalent ions. In the present work, the combination of structural and
electrical measurements in electron- and hole-doped R_(1 − x)A_(x)NiO₃
perovskites has al lowed us to examine the transition temperatures of a
large list of nickelates, where Ni has the formal valence "(3 + x)" or
"(3 − x)" (x≤0.10). But, in addition, they have permitted us to isolate
different contributions controlling the metal-to-insulator transition
temperature. The paper is organized as follows: Section II is devoted to
experimental details about sample preparation and x-ray, neutron, and
resistivity measurements. Structural data, which show a
contraction/expansion of the cell volume and the Ni-O bond upon
hole/electron doping, are given in Sec. III, where the consequences of
doping on the transport properties are also illustrated. Finally, in
Sec. IV, we combine the structural and transport data in order to
isolate the pure electronic effects on $T_{\rm MI}$ from secondary
contributions such as the R-size effects. Interestingly, a remarkable
electron-hole asymmetry is found in the stabilization of the metallic
state by doping.

## II Experiment

The synthesis of the RNiO₃ family is not straightforward, since elevated
temperatures and high oxygen pressures are required in order to obtain
well-crystallized samples with narrow diffraction peaks.[7, 10, 11] All
the powder samples of R_(1 − x)A_(x)NiO₃ investigated (R = La,Nd; A =
Sr,CaTh; 0 ≤ x ≤ 0.10) were prepared by the liquid-mix technique.[11]
Stoichiometric amounts of analytical grade R₂O₃ and the nitrates
Ni(NO₃)₂ ⋅ 6H₂O and Ca(NO₃)₂, Sr(NO₃)₂, or Th(NO₃)₄ ⋅ 5H₂O were solved
in citric acid. Then, the citrate solution was dried and slowly
decomposed by heating up to 600 ^(∘)C. The intimate mixture of oxides
was fired in air at 800 ^(∘)C for several hours. The black precursor
powders were then pressed into pellets and heated at 1000 ^(∘)C under
200 bars of oxygen pressure for 12 h. Finally, they were slowly cooled
(600 ^(∘)C/h) down to room temperature (RT). X-ray-diffraction patterns
were collected at RT in a Siemens D-501 goniometer. The fine structural
details of several samples were also investigated by means of neutron
diffraction at RT on the diffractometer DN5, equipped with a position
sensitive detector, at the Siloe reactor of the Centre d’Etudes
Nucleaires, in Grenoble. The 800 positional detectors of DN5 covered a
range of 80^(∘) in 2 θ, and the wavelength used was λ = 1.345 A. We
applied the Rietveld method to the diffraction patterns by using the
Fullprof program.[12] This characterization confirmed that all the
samples were well crystallized and single phase. The oxygen content was
found to be the nominal, within the calculated standard errors (1

## III Results

We show in Fig. 1 the x-ray-diffraction patterns of
Nd_(0.95)A_(0.05)NiO₃ samples (A = Ca, Sr, and Th) obtained at RT. All
the samples investigated have the orthorhombically distorted perovskite
structure of the space group Pbnm. The only exception are the specimens
containing the larger ion La, which are rhombohedrally distorted (space
group $R\bar{3}c$). The refined lattice parameters are listed in Table
1, together with the mean effective ionic radii of atoms at the
rare-earth site. In the La compounds the refined parameters are referred
to the hexagonal description of the $R\bar{3}c$ symmetry. Examination of
the diffraction profiles confirmed that all the samples are well
crystallized. The only difference between pure and doped samples is a
very slight extra broadening of the reflections in the latter. This is
probably due to the disorder-induced at the rare-earth sites in the
doped perovskites, which are populated by R³⁺ and A²⁺/A⁴⁺ ions. The
oxygen pressure and temperature used (200 bars and 1000 ^(∘)C) were
enough to incorporate the bicuant and tetravalent ions into the
structure, and we did not detect secondary phases in the diffraction
patterns. The analysis of the neutron-diffraction data of
Nd_(0.95)Sr_(0.05)NiO₃ and Nd_(0.95)Th_(0.05)NiO₃ obtained at RT on DN5
allowed us to survey fine structural details in these 5

Figure 1: X-ray-diffraction patterns of NdNiO₃, hole-doped
Nd_(0.95)Ca_(0.05)NiO₃ and Nd_(0.95)Sr_(0.05)NiO₃, and electron-doped
Nd_(0.95)Th_(0.05)NiO₃ at RT, all of them having the Pbnm orthorhombic
structure.

orthorhombic GdFeO₃-type structure of the Pbnm space group, the
rare-earth atom and oxygen O(1) are at site (4c) (_x_, y, 1/4), while Ni
occupies the (4b) position (1/2, 0, 0), and the second oxygen O(2) is
placed on the general (_x_, y, _z_) position. In Table III there are
summarized the main distances and angles of NdNiO₃,
Nd_(0.95)Sr_(0.05)NiO₃ and Nd_(0.95)Th_(0.05)NiO₃ calculated from the
refined atomic coordinates given in Table II. The structural data on the
pure compounds given in Tables I, II, and III were taken from our
previous high-resolution neutron-diffraction study reported in Ref. [6].

Sr²⁺, Ca²⁺, and Th⁴⁺ ions replace at random the rare-earth site but
keeping the orthoferrite structure without modifying the crystalline
symmetry. The distortion in the skeleton of the NiO₆ octahedra is
expected to increase (more tilted octahedra) with decreasing the
effective ionic radius of the rare-earth atoms. In other words, smaller
atoms at the rare-earth site cause the bending of the bond angle Ni-O-Ni
governing the transfer integral between Ni _e__(g) and O 2p orbitals.[6,
13]

It is found that the incorporation of bivalent ions

                N₀   Nd_(0.95)Sr_(0.05)NiO₃    NdNiO₃    Nd_(0.95)Th_(0.05)NiO₃
  ------------ ---- ------------------------ ---------- ------------------------
    ⁴Ni-O(1)    2           1.939(2)          1.940(1)          1.946(2)
    ⁴Ni-O(2)    2           1.942(5)          1.939(2)          1.936(5)
     -O(2)      2           1.930(5)          1.947(3)          1.954(5)
    ⁽⁴Ni-O)                 1.937(4)          1.942(2)          1.945(4)
    ⁴Nd-O(1)    1           2.904(9)          2.944(4)          2.970(8)
     -O(1)      1           2.517(9)          2.496(4)          2.492(8)
     -O(1)      1           3.07(1)           3.049(7)          3.06(1)
     -O(1)      1           2.34(1)           2.360(7)          2.36(1)
    ⁴Nd-O(2)    2           2.586(7)          2.584(4)          2.607(7)
     -O(2)      2           2.418(7)          2.384(3)          2.396(7)
     -O(2)      2           2.684(7)          2.677(4)          2.640(6)
    (⁴Nd-O)                 2.621(8)          2.614(5)          2.617(8)
   Ni-O(1)-Ni   2           157.9(5)          157.4(2)          156.3(5)
   Ni-O(2)-Ni   4          158.6(11)          156.8(5)         157.0(10)
   (Ni-O-Ni)                158.4(9)          157.0(4)          156.8(8)

Table 2: Refined structural positions and isotropic temperature factors
of pure and 5

  ------------------------ -------- ------------------ ----------- ----------- ------------ -----------
                            Space                                                           
                            R₀ (Å)        group           a (Å)       b (Å)       c (Å)       V (Å³)
           LaNiO₃           1.160    $R\overline{3}c$   5.4573(1)   5.4573(1)   13.1462(3)   339.06(2)
   La_(0.90)Sr_(0.1)NiO₃    1.170    $R\overline{3}c$   5.4455(3)   5.4455(3)   13.1600(9)   337.97(5)
   La_(0.90)Th_(0.10)NiO₃   1.149    $R\overline{3}c$   5.4561(4)   5.4561(4)   13.155(1)    339.15(5)
           NdNiO₃           1.109          Pbnm         5.3895(3)   5.3774(2)   7.6079(3)    220.48(6)
   Nd_(0.95)Sr_(0.01)NiO₃   1.110          Pbnm         5.3925(3)   5.3749(4)   7.6069(2)    220.47(2)
   Nd_(0.98)Sr_(0.02)NiO₃   1.112          Pbnm         5.3900(2)   5.3736(3)   7.6068(3)    220.32(3)
   Nd_(0.97)Sr_(0.03)NiO₃   1.113          Pbnm         5.3967(4)   5.3663(1)   7.6066(4)    220.28(5)
   Nd_(0.95)Sr_(0.05)NiO₃   1.116          Pbnm         5.3949(1)   5.3671(9)   7.6119(2)    220.40(1)
   Nd_(0.90)Sr_(0.10)NiO₃   1.124          Pbnm         5.4014(1)   5.3638(1)   7.6167(2)    220.67(1)
   Nd_(0.99)Ca_(0.01)NiO₃   1.109          Pbnm         5.3900(2)   5.3759(3)   7.6064(2)    220.40(2)
   Nd_(0.98)Ca_(0.02)NiO₃   1.109          Pbnm         5.3903(4)   5.3727(2)   7.6035(1)    220.20(5)
   Nd_(0.97)Ca_(0.03)NiO₃   1.109          Pbnm         5.3920(1)   5.3700(9)   7.6023(1)    220.12(9)
   Nd_(0.95)Ca_(0.05)NiO₃   1.109          Pbnm         5.3934(3)   5.3698(3)   7.6047(1)    220.24(3)
   Nd_(0.90)Ca_(0.10)NiO₃   1.110          Pbnm         5.3968(8)   5.3688(1)   7.6102(2)    220.50(8)
   Nd_(0.97)Th_(0.03)NiO₃   1.107          Pbnm         5.3879(6)   5.3890(4)   7.6108(3)    220.62(7)
   Nd_(0.97)Th_(0.05)NiO₃   1.106          Pbnm         5.3911(8)   5.3890(4)    7.617(1)    221.29(8)
   Nd_(0.92)Th_(0.08)NiO₃   1.104          Pbnm         5.3927(7)   5.3926(3)    7.620(1)    221.59(8)
   Nd_(0.90)Th_(0.10)NiO₃   1.103          Pbnm         5.3924(9)   5.3950(6)    7.620(2)    221.7(1)
  ------------------------ -------- ------------------ ----------- ----------- ------------ -----------

Table 1: Effective ionic radii at the rare-earth site (R₀), lattice
parameters and cell volume of pure and doped R_(1 − A)A_(x)NiO₃ (R:
La,Nd; A: Ca²⁺,Sr²⁺,Th⁴⁺).

(Sr2+,Ca2+) brings about a contraction of the unit cell, whereas doping
with tetravalent ions (Th4+) causes an expansion of the lattice [see
Table I and Fig. 2(a)]. In Fig. 2(a) we have represented the volume of
the unit cell in 16 pure

Figure 4: Logarithmic resistivity vs temperature of Nd1-_x_A_xNiO3
perovskites with variable concentrations of divalent dopants: (a) A =
Sr2+, (b) A = Ca2+ (_x_ = 0, 0.01, 0.02, 0.03, 0.05, and 0.10). (The
further right curves are the warming data.)

Figure 5: Electrical resistivity ρ (in logarithmic scale) vs temperature
of Nd1-_x_Th,NiO3 for various concentrations of tetravalent doping (_x_
= 0, 0.03, 0.05 and 0.08).

Figure 3: Suppression of the metal-insulator transition (_T_MI) in
Nd1-_x_A_xNiO3 [_A_: Sr (circles), Ca (triangles), Ce (squares) (from
Ref. 14), and Th (rhombuses)] with electron and hole doping x. Closed
symbols (dotted line) represent experimental values, whereas open
symbols (full line) correspond to calculated _T_MI, after subtracting
_R_-size effects. Lines are guides to the eye.

Figure 2: (a) Expansion/contraction in the cell volume of R1−_x_A_xNiO3
(_R_: La,Nd; _A_: Th,Sr; 0<_x_ < 0.10) due to electron/hole doping. The
pure effect of the rare-earth size upon the volume is also shown. (The
volume of La compounds is normalized to four formula units.) (b)
Dependence of _T_MI on the ionic radius of R in _R_NiO3 compounds. The
line is a linear fit to the data.

and doped nickelates versus their estimated effective rare-earth size.
In this figure the volume of La compounds was normalized to the four
formula units (f.u.) forming the orthorhombic cell (the rhombohedral
cell of La_(1 − x)/A_(x)NiO₃ contains 6 f.u.). To be noted from a simple
glance over Fig. 2(a) is that the modifications in the volume do not
correspond to the steric changes expected regarding the effective
rare-earth sizes (_R_0). In fact, the changes in the samples with Sr or
Th are opposite to those expected from consideration of their mean ionic
radii. In the samples with bivalent dopants there is a contraction of
the cell despite the larger effective size of Sr²⁺, for instance,
compared to La³⁺ or Nd³⁺ (_R_0[Sr²⁺] = 1.26 A ≥ R₀[La³⁺] = 1.16
A ≥ R₀[Nd³⁺] = 1.11 A). On the other hand, the cell expands in the
electron doped Th⁴⁺-perovskites [Fig. 2(a)]. We recall that R0[Th⁴⁺] =
1.05 A < R₀[Nd³⁺] = 1.11 A  < R₀[La³⁺] = 1.16 A.

With respect to the transport measurements, partial replacement of Nd by
bivalent or tetravalent ions results in a lowering of the transition
temperature. The dependence of _T_MI with doping is displayed in Fig. 3
for both cases. The abrupt change in the electrical resistivity at _T_MI
makes it easy to determine the transition temperature in the
investigated compounds (see Figs. 4 and 5). Given that resistivity is
hysteretic below _T_MI, the transition temperatures have been determined
upon heating measurements. While there is a progressive increase of the
hysteresis range by doping, the temperature at which the slope of
_r_(_T_) changes from negative to positive in a heating procedure
remains well defined in all the samples. We did not find measurable
variations of _T_MI with the heating rate of the sample. It is also
found that the rate of phase transformation decreases with x in all the
cases (electrons and holes), but neither depends simply on the unit-cell
volume nor on the amount of extra charge injected in the Ni-O network.
At the present stage, whether the width of the hysteresis loop is
intrinsic to the material or is also controlled by granular effects is
still unclear.

## IV Discussion and conclusions

There is no doubt from these measurements that the Ni-O bands can
actually be doped with either electrons and holes. The variations in the
lattice parameters listed in Table I should be attributed to two
separate effects that for some dopants act in opposite senses, namely,
(i) size and (ii) intrinsic electronic effects. The cell volume of
R3+0.9Sr²⁺0.1NiO₃ samples displays, when plotted versus the mean size
R03[_R_1-xSr_(x)], a straight line parallel to the line determined by
the linear increase with R03 of the cell volume in the pure compounds. A
similar evolution is found in the _n_-doped compounds R3+0.9Th⁴⁺0.1NiO₃
[see Fig. 2(a)]. What should be emphasized is that the straight lines
of, nominally, equally hole-doped R1-_x_A_NiO₃ compounds (_x_ fixed and
R variable) fall below the line determined by the undoped Ni
perovskites. This is so despite the larger size of Sr²⁺ compared to R3+
(_R_0[Sr²⁺] = 1.26 A > R₀[La³⁺] = 1.16 A > R₀[Nd³⁺] = 1.109 A).
Conversely, the corresponding lines defined by equally electron-doped
nickelates fall above the line representing the pure oxides, and it
should be recalled again that the ionic radius of Th⁴⁺ (1.05 A) in eight
coordination is noticeably smaller than that of R3+.

The observed cell expansion/contraction, then, cannot be understood on
the basis of steric effects associated with R0 but is a consequence of
the modification through doping of the Ni-O bonds. This essential point
has been further confirmed by the detailed structural data gathered in
Tables II and III for the 5

According to the Ref. [6], a good approximation to the relationship
between small increments of the tolerance factor t and the Ni-O-Ni bond
angle _th_ is given by

$$\Delta\,\theta \approx 275\Delta\,t\,\,\,(\,\theta\,\,\,\,\text{being\,\,the\,\,\, mean}\,\,\,\,(\,\text{Ni-O-Ni})\,\,\,\,\text{angle});$$
(1)

the tolerance factor in a perovskite _AB_O₃ being defined by

$$t = d_{A\text{-O}}/d_{B\text{-O}}\sqrt{2}\,.$$
(2)

Thus, differentiating Eq. (2) and substituting in (1), one obtains a
relationship between small variations in the angle _th_ and the changes
in _d_R-O and _d_Ni-O:

$$\Delta\,\theta \approx \frac{275}{\sqrt{2}}\bigg{[}\frac{\Delta d_{R\text{-O}}}{d_{\text{Ni-O}}}-\frac{d_{R\text{-O}}}{d_{\text{Ni-O}}^{2}}\Delta d_{\text{Ni-O}}\bigg{]}.$$
(3)

Now, we can apply Eq. (3) to the structural data in Table III for
Nd_(0.95)Sr_(0.05)NiO₃ and Nd_(0.95)Th_(0.05)NiO₃. Experimentally, the
difference of the bond angle between these samples is
(Δ θ)_(cap)=158.4−156.8= 1.6^(∘). And, on another hand, the relation to
oxygen instances differ by Δd_(R-O) = 4×10⁻³ A and Δd_(Ni-O) = - 8×10⁻³
A. Then, based on Eq. (3), our estimate of what should be the variation
of the average Ni-O-Ni angle yields Δ θ ≈ 1.49^(∘). This value is in
excellent agreement with the measured change (1.6^(∘)). Consequently, in
doped nickelates the changes observed in _th_ are well explained by a
merely steric accommodation of the structure to the two relevant
structural changes: namely, (a) the _R_-O distance, modified in virtue
of the size of the atoms involved and (b) the electronically driven
change in the Ni-O bondlength.

Next, we would like to focus our attention on the problem of the
stabilization of the metallic state by doping. We will show that there
is an electron-hole asymmetry in the suppression of the MI transition.
The lowering of the MI transition temperature by doping is shown in Fig.
3 (closed symbols and dotted lines represent the experimental values).
However, in addition to the extra carriers, size effects are also
contributing to the final _T_MI. Hereafter we must distinguish between
the experimental _T_MI (_x_,R0(_x_)) (_x_ is the substituted amount and
R0 is the mean rare-earth size) and _T_MI(_x_), the first being the
experimental value and the second the virtual transition temperature in
NdNiO₃ after adding x carriers (electrons or holes) per Ni ion to the
Ni-O bands but keeping at the same time the average rare-earth size
R₀ = R₀[Nd]. That is to say, size effects are not considered in
T_(MH)^(′)(x) that only account for the carrier injection and the
concomitant contraction/expansion of the Ni-O bond. In this
approximation we can write

$$\left(\frac{dT_{\text{MH}}(x,R_{0}(x))}{dx}\right) = \left(\frac{\partial T_{\text{MH}}(x,R_{0}(x))}{\partial x}\right)$$
(4)
$$+ \left(\frac{\partial T_{\text{MH}}(x(R_{0}(x))}{\partial R_{0}} \right)\frac{dR_{0}(x)}{dx}.$$

This simple expression relates the observed changes in T_(MI) with the
contributions from the extra carriers and size effects, separately. The
left-hand side of Eq. (4) has been obtained experimentally for all the
dopants by linear least-squares fitting of straight lines to the
experimental values of T_(MH) as a function of x. A linear decrease of
the transition temperature represents, for all the substitutional
cations, a satisfactory approximation to the experimental data (see Fig.
3). Table 4 lists the values of dT_(MI)/dx for the four dopants Sr, Ca,
Th, and Ce (the data for Ce samples have been taken from Ref. [14]).
Moreover, the second term in the right-hand side of Eq. (4),
representing R-size effects, can be also easily evaluated. The factor
∂T_(MI)/∂R₀, by examining the experimental T_(MH)(R₀) dependence, is
shown to be linear in Fig. 2(b). Based on this figure we get
∂T_(MH)/∂R₀ ≈ 6200 K/A. The second factor, dR₀(x)/dx, was evaluated from
the differences between the ionic radii of the dopants and Nd ions. In
consequence, this procedure permitted us to finally estimate ∂T_(MH)/∂x
on the right-hand side of Eq. (4), namely, the actual modification of
the transition temperature exclusively due to carrier injection, without
altering the rare-earth size. The values for dR₀(x)/dx and ∂T_(MH)/∂x
with A = Sr, Ca, Th, and Ce are listed in Table 4.

Enhanced R₀ values encompass the progressive straightening of the
Ni-O-Ni angle and, thus, a positive variation of the free-carrier
band-width with the corresponding lowering of the gap energy. However,
based on the data gathered in Table 4, it becomes apparent that the
primary cause for the stabilization of the metallic state by doping is
not the modification of the rare-earth size (that plays an opposite role
with A = Th and Ce) but the incorporation of extra carriers. The
decrease of the T_(MI) values is slightly more pronounced with Sr
(dT_(MI)/dx ≈ −4190 K) than with Ca (dT_(MI)/dx ≈ −3180 K), and these
differences are much more significant in the specimens doped with
electrons: dT_(MI)/dx ≈ −1029 K for Th and −220 K for Ce.

A central result of our study is the suppression of such differences
after R-size corrections. Indeed, the bare suppression rates ∂T_(MI)/∂x
obtained upon Sr and Ca substitution come to a very similar value:
(∂T_(MI)/∂x)_(h) ≈ −3200 K. On the other hand, the right-hand side of
Fig. 3 is even more meaningful, since size effects are rather more
important with Ce⁴⁺ ions: the rate dT_(MI)/dx ≈ −220 K is changed into
∂T_(MI)/∂x ≈ −1082 K. Finally, a very similar bare rate is also found
with Th. For electrons it is thus found that (∂T_(MI)/∂x)_(e) ≈ −1200 K.

In addition, the common suppression rates found in these hole- and
electron-doped nickelates, separately, allows us to recalculate the
metal-insulator transition temperatures in order to get T_(MI)^(′). The
temperature at which electron localization would occur if extra carriers
were injected in the Ni 3 d − O 2p bands without modifying the
sublattice of rare earth is, then,

$$T_{\text{MI}}^{\prime} = T_{\text{MI}} + \left(\frac{\partial T_{\text{MI}}}{\partial x}\right)x.$$
(5)

The T_(MI)^(′) values obtained using the above expression are
represented with open symbols in Fig. 3, to be distinguished from T_(MI)
(solid symbols). According to the above discussion, the calculated
values in the left (holes) and right (electrons) panels of Fig. 3
exhibit the linear dependence on x described by Eq. (5).

To be emphasized is that this interesting family of compounds constitute
one of the very scarce opportunities to investigate the electron hole
symmetry/asymmetry of charge-transfer TM oxides in the same crystalline
structure. These Ni${}^{\rm III}$ perovskites are able to incorporate
both electrons and holes in TM-O bands. This is not possible in the
cuprates R_(2 − x)A_(x)CuO₄, for instance, where hole doping (A = Sr²⁺,
Ba²⁺, ...) is made in the so-called T structure, whereas doping with
electrons requires the T^(′) structure.[15] Changes in the photoemission
spectra of previously investigated charge-transfer oxides like the
superconducting cuprates[16; 17] are not compatible with a rigid-band
model in which E_(F) is systematically shifted. Carrier doping of RNiO₃
is expected to create new states within the charge-transfer band gap
(midgap states) between the π* (O 2p - Ni t_(2g)) valence band and σ* (O
2p - Ni e_(g)) conduction band. We have found a significant
electron-hole asymmetry in the bare suppression of $T_{\rm MI}$ by the
extra carriers:

$$\left(\frac{\partial T_{\rm MI}}{\partial x}\right)_{\rm holes}\approx 3\left(\frac{\partial T_{\rm MI}}{\partial x}\right)_{\rm electrons}.$$

The different nature of the respective midgap states is very likely at
the origin of such asymmetry. Differences in the orbital symmetry of
doped carriers should coexist with different couplings to the e_(g) ¹
electron of the Ni${}^{\rm III}$ ion. Doped holes probably have mainly
$d^{7}\underline{L}$ character and are introduced on O 2_p_^( *)
orbitals with important contribution from Ni t_(2g) states. In the
n-doped samples two electrons reside on e_(g)-like orbitals in the Ni²⁺
(d⁸) state, and they are probably ferromagnetically coupled to form a
high-spin state S = 1. Whether doped holes form singlet states with the
e_(g) ¹ electrons deserves further investigation. It could well occur
that the nonuniform orbital distribution of the single e_(g) electron[9]
might encompass that additional holes occupy different states, which
could favor the itinerant motion.

In conclusion, these findings provide a simplified scenario of the
influence of carrier injection upon the paradigmatic MI transition in
RNiO₃. The unequal dependence of $T_{\rm MI}$ on x for different dopants
can be understood on the basis of an unified picture by separating
R-size effects from carrier injection, and, in addition, we have found
that holes are about three times more effective than electrons in
closing the charge-transfer gap.

###### Acknowledgements.

We would like to acknowledge the CSIC-CIRIT and the Spanish DGICYT
(Grant Nos. PB92-0849 and PB91-0089) for financial support, and M.S.
would like to acknowledge a grant from the Spanish Ministerio de Asuntos
Exteriores. The CENG is acknowledged for making available the neutron
beam time.

## References

* (1) N. F. Mott, Proc. Phys. Soc. London, Sec. A **62**, 416 (1949). *
(2) J. Hubbard, Proc. R. Soc. London, Sec. A **277**, 237 (1964);
**277**, 401 (1964). * (3) D. B. McWhan, J. P. Remeika, T. M. Rice, W.
F. Brinkman, J. Maita, and A. Menth, Phys. Rev. Lett. **27**, 941
(1971). * (4) J. Zaanen, G. A. Sawatzky, and J. W. Allen, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **55**, 418 (1985). * (5) J. B. Torrance, P. Lacorre, C.
Ansavaroengchai, and R. M. Metzger, J. Solid State Chem. **90**, 168
(1991). * (6) J. L. Garcia-Munoz, J. Rodriguez-Carvajal, P. Lacorre, and
J. B. Torrance, Phys. Rev. B **46**, 4414 (1992). * (7) P. Lacorre, J.
B. Torrance, J. Pannetier, A. I. Nazzal, P. W. Wang, T. C. Huang, and R.
L. Siemens, J. Solid State Chem. **91**, 225 (1991). * (8) G. Demazeau,
A. Marbeuf, M. Pouchard, and P. Hagenmuller, J. Solid State Chem. **3**,
582 (1971). * (9) J. L. Garcia-Munoz, J. Rodriguez-Carvajal, and P.
Lacorre, Phys. Rev. B **50**, 978 (1994). * (10) J. K. Vassiliou, M.
Hornbostel, R. Ziebarth, and F. J. Disalvo, J. Solid State Chem. **81**,
208 (1989). * (11) J. A. Alonso, M. J. Martinez-Lope, and M. A. Hidalgo,
J. Solid State Chem. **116**, 146 (1995). * (12) J. Rodriguez-Carvajal
(unpublished). * (13) J. B. Torrance, P. Lacorre, A. I. Nazzal, E. J.
Ansaldo, and Ch. Niedermayer, Phys. Rev. B **45**, 8209 (1992). * (14)
S. W. Cheong, H. Y. Hwang, B. Batlogg, A. S. Cooper, and P. C. Canfield,
Physica B **194-196**, 1087 (1994). * (15) Y. Tokura, H. Takagi, and S.
Uchida, Nature (London) **337**, 345 (1989). * (16) H. Romberg, M.
Alexander, N. Nucker, P. Adelmann, and J. Fink, Phys. Rev. B **42**,
8768 (1990). * (17) C. T. Chen _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **66**, 104
(1990); S. Uchida, T. Ido, H. Takagi, Y. Tokura, and S. Tajima, Physica
B **165-166**, 1249 (1990).
