# Thermal expansion studies of superconducting U1-_x_Th_Be13
(0<=_x_<=0.052):

Implications for the interpretation of the _T-x_ phase diagram

F. Kromer, M. Lang, N. Oeschler, P. Hinze, C. Langhammer, and F.
Steglich

Max Planck Institute of Chemical Physics of Solids, D-01187 Dresden,
Germany

J. S. Kim and G. R. Stewart

Department of Physics, University of Florida, Gainesville, Florida 32661

###### Abstract

We report on high-resolution measurements of the coefficient of thermal
expansion a of the heavy-fermion superconductor U1-_x_Th_Be13 for
temperatures 0.05 K=_T_ <= 6 K and magnetic fields B <= 8 T. Particular
attention is paid to the properties of the low-temperature normal state
and their evolution as a function of thorium concentration. By exploring
a wide concentration range, 0<=_x_ <= 0.052, that encompasses the region
x <= 0.019<_x_ <= < x < x < = 0.045 where temperature-dependent
specific-heat measurements reveal two subsequent phase transitions at T
<= T <= z, our study discloses features in the _T-x_ plane that have
been overseen by all other techniques applied to this system so far: (i)
The substitution of uranium by thorium in UBe13 induces an anomaly that
manifests itself in a negative _a_(_T_) contribution to the
low-temperature normal-state expansivity. Its distinct field dependence
signals a magnetic origin. Analyzing the relative lengths changes
associated with this anomaly and that of the phase transition at T <= z
suggests a common (presumably magnetic) nature of both features. (ii)
The linear concentration dependence of the second low-energy scale T
max, which gives rise to a pronounced maximum in _a_(_T_) of UBe13 at 2
K (at B = 0) could be followed up–by applying a magnetic field–to
concentrations x > 0.03. Most remarkably, T max(_x_) vanishes at x
0.043, i.e., almost exactly at x <= 2. (iii) Upon increasing x to above
0.03 the normal- to superconducting-state transition at T <= 1
progressively loses its signatures in a. Our measurements, together with
recent specific-heat results by Schreiner _et al._ [Schreiner _et al._,
Europhys. Lett. **48**, 568 (1999)] indicate that superconductivity
becomes gapless for x  = x <= 2. Hence, the phase transition seen in
specific heat as well as thermal-expansion measurements for samples with
x > x <= 2 has to be attributed to the T <= 2 transition. Concomitant
investigations of the ac susceptibility indicate that the normal- to
superconducting-state transition for x > x <= 2 now coincides with T <=
2. As for the implications of our observations for the interpretation of
the various low-temperature anomalies, we discuss two possible scenarios
both of which imply an intimate interrelation of superconductivity with
the symmetry broken state that forms below T <= 2.

## I Introduction

The heavy-fermion (hf) superconductor UBe13 (Ref. [1]) and its Th-doped
homologues are distinct by showing most complex behaviors both above and
below T <= T <= 0. For the pure compound a characteristic (Kondo) scale
of T <= 8 - 25 K, which accounts for the extremely large effective
carrier masses, has been inferred from specific-heat [2] and resistivity
measurements. [3] In addition to this predominant energy scale, yet
another low-temperature scale has been found that manifests itself in
maxima centered around T max = 2 K in thermodynamic [4, 5, 6] and
transport properties. [1, 3, 7]

Furthermore, the low-temperature normal (_n_)-state properties are
characterized by strong violations of Landau-type Fermi-liquid behavior.
In fact, a closer inspection of the resistivity and specific heat
supports the possibility of a non-Fermi-liquid (nFl) arising from a
nearby quantum critical point [8] similar to what was found for the
canonical hf superconductor CeCu2Si2. [9] Unlike the latter, however,
where a spin-density-wave (SDW) type magnetic "phase _A_" competes with
hf superconductivity, [10, 9] no clear-cut evidence for magnetic order
exists for UBe13 so far.

Out of the highly resistive, strongly incoherent nFl _n_-state, the
superconducting instability evolves at T <= 0.9 K. [11] From the T <= 1
dependence in the low-temperature specific heat, a highly anisotropic,
i.e., axial order parameter has been inferred. [14] Even more intriguing
was the discovery of a strongly nonmonotonic T < (_x_) dependence and
the occurrence of a double phase transition in temperature-dependent
specific-heat measurements for the indicated system U1-_x_Th_Be13 in the
low-concentration range 0.019<_x_ < 0.045, [15] cf. Fig. 1: After an
initial drop with a rather sharp minimum at x = x <= 0.019, T < rapidly
recovers and reaches a local maximum at x = 0.03. As was observed in the
above specific-heat measurements [15] and recently more thoroughly
studied, [16] this increase in T < is accompanied by the occurrence of a
second phase transition in the superconducting state. For further
thorium addition these two transitions remain distinct up to x = x <=
0.045 above which only a single phase-transition anomaly can be resolved
in the thermodynamic quantities, cf. Fig. 1.

If the lower of the two transitions at T <= 0.019<_x_ < 0.045 were to be
identified as a (second) superconducting one, this would represent clear
evidence for the unconventional nature of the superconducting state in
U1-_x_ Th_Be13. Unlike UPt3–the second hf superconductor showing addi
tional phase-transition lines below T_(c)–where compelling evidence
exists for multiple superconducting phases (see, e.g., Ref. [19]), the
situation for U_(1 − x)Th_(x)Be₁₃ is not so clear. Here, the problems
lie both in the nature of the transition at T_(c2) and–in case it is a
second superconducting one–in the cause of the T_(c) splitting, i.e.,
the nature of the symmetry-breaking field.

From the marked peak in the ultrasound attenuation below T_(c2), a
spin-density-wave (SDW) ordering was claimed.[20] This was compatible
with the increase in the muon spin relaxation (μSR) rate below T_(c2)
from which a very small magnetic moment of only μ_(s)^(∞)10⁻³μ_(B)/U has
been deduced.[21] On the other hand, a second superconducting transition
was inferred from the abrupt increase in the slope of the lower critical
field upon cooling through T_(c2).[22] These seemingly conflicting
results have been explained by proposing a superconducting state below
T_(c2) that breaks time-reversal symmetry.[23, 24, 25] More recent
experimental results of pressure studies,[18] of the anomalous
mixed-state properties,[26, 27] and of the response of T_(c2) to
doping[28] were found to be consistent with such an interpretation, cf.
Ref. [29] for the discussion of the anomalous vortex-pinning phenomena.

The present work comprises a systematic dilatometric study on thoriated
UBe₁₃ samples for concentrations 0.038 ≈x≤0.052, i.e., across the second
critical concentration x_(c2), cf. Fig. 1. It supplements our previous
study on samples with x≈0.03.[17] The work is aimed at (i) finding out
systematics as a function of x that may help to identify the various
phases and phase transitions as well as (ii) looking for potential
correlations of these states with properties above T_(c2). As
demonstrated in previous thermal-expansion studies[5, 17, 5] dilatometry
has proved to be particularly suited for this purpose owing to the
strong coupling of the low-temperature electronic properties to the
lattice degrees of freedom.

The paper is organized as follows: After presenting some details
concerning experimental techniques and the samples investigated in Sec.
II, we present in Sec. III a thorough investigation of the
low-temperature thermal expansion and ac susceptibility as well as a
comparison to specific-heat data. The results are analyzed in Sec. IV
with regard to various aspects. The implication of our findings for the
interpretation of the various phases and phase-transition lines are
discussed in Sec. V. The paper is summarized in Sec. VI.

## II Experimental

Thermal-expansion measurements were performed utilizing a
high-resolution capacitance dilatometer whose maximum sensitivity
corresponds to Δl/l=10⁻¹¹ where l is the sample length.[51] The linear
coefficient of thermal expansion α=l⁻¹×∂l/∂T is approximated by
α(T)≈[Δl(T₂)−Δl(T₁)]/[(1 300 K$)\((T_{2}$−T₁)], with a mean temperature
T=(T₁ + T₂)/2 and length changes defined as Δl(T)=l(T)−l(0.05 K). For a
determination of the superconducting transition temperatures of our
samples an ac susceptometer operating at a frequency ω=117 Hz was
employed. The peak-to-peak amplitude of the ac field was set to ΔB=13μT
except for the x=0.043 compound, where an amplitude of ΔB=1.05μT was
used. Since the low-temperature flank of the $\chi_{\rm ac}$ transition
(but not the onset) was found to depend on the ac-field amplitude, we
refrained from using the standard 10−90 

While for the pure UBe₁₃ single crystalline material was used, all
Th-doped samples are polycrystals. Except U_(0.962)Th_(0.038)Be₁₃ where
both an annealed and unannealed sample was measured all other samples
are unannealed. For details on the sample preparation we refer to Ref.
[16].

## III Results

Below we present results of thermal-expansion measurements on thoriated
UBe₁₃ samples with Th concentrations x=0.038, 0.043, 0.0455, and 0.052.
This study supplements our recent work which was focusing on the
concentration range x≈0.03.[17] The salient results of that work are
summarized in Fig. 2 where we plot the thermal-expansion data together
with results of the specific heat on the same temperature scale.
Starting with the pure compound, the projection of the width of the
superconducting transition (vertical dotted lines) from C(T) (upper
curves) on to the α(T) data (lower curves) reveals that besides the
superconducting transition that manifests itself in the negative jump in
α(T) an additional broad negative anomaly shows up slightly below T_(c).
The independent character of both features has been clearly demonstrated
by both their distinctly different field dependences as well as a
thorough thermodynamic

Figure 1: Schematic T-x phase diagram of U_(1 − x)Th_(x)Be₁₃. Full lines
represent phase transitions after the recent work of (Ref. [16]), while
the broken line, T_(L)(x), corresponds to an anomaly reported in Ref.
[17]. The existence of an additional phase boundary of second order
(vertical solid line) has been inferred from specific-heat measurements
under pressure on a sample with x=0.022 (Ref. [18]). Dotted lines at
x_(c1) and x_(c2) define the concentration range in which two subsequent
phase transitions at T_(c1) and T_(c2) were found.

analysis.[17] Upon increasing x to 0.01 (not shown, cf. Ref. [17]),
0.017, and 0.0185 (also not shown, cf. Ref. [36]) this low-_T_ feature
becomes progressively more pronounced and sharper. Once x is increased
to 0.022, i.e., above _x__c_1 = 0.019, the superconducting transition
separates on the temperature axis from the low-_T_ anomaly that now
receives the character of a true phase transition. Using an equal-areas
construction to replace the broadened phase transitions by idealized
sharp ones, the transition temperatures can be determined and associated
with _T__c_1 and _T__c_2 in accordance with literature results.[15, 21,
16] The main observation of our previous study contained in Fig. 2 is
that the low-_T_ anomaly for x <_x__c_1 in the superconducting state
marks the precursor of the transition at _T__c_2(_x_) for 0.019<_x_ <
0.045. To determine the position of this anomaly as a function of x, we
treat, for lack of any other well-founded criterion, the broadened
features in the same way as the second-order phase transitions at
_T__c_2 for x > > _x__c_1 and refer to their characteristic temperature
as _T__c_1(_x_), cf. Fig. 2.

Before discussing the results for x > 0.03 in detail, we present in Fig.
3 a compilation of these data together with specific-heat results in the
same way as in Fig. 2 for x <= 0.03. In addition, Fig. 3 comprises
results of ac susceptibility measurements serving as an independent
determination of _T__c_1.

By following the evolution of the low-temperature _a_(_T_) behavior as a
function of Th concentration in Figs. 2 and 3, three observations can be
made.

(1) The thermal-expansion coefficient above _T__c_1 changes sign from a
large positive expansivity for x <= 0.03 (cf. also Fig. 2) to a negative
one for x >= 0.038. The magnitude of the latter contribution, |α|_(π),
grows with increasing x from 0.038 to 0.043 but appears to saturate for
higher Th concentrations. Remarkably enough, in the same concentration
range, no significant change can be resolved in the corresponding
_n_-state specific heat.

(2) The discontinuity at the superconducting transition at _T__c_1 in
both thermodynamic quantities becomes strongly reduced upon increasing x
to above 0.03. While for x = 0.038 a somewhat reduced though still
sizable ΔC|_(T ∈ 1) is found together with a Δα|_(T ∈ 1) that is already
very small,[37] both ΔC|_(T ∈ 1) and Δα|_(T ∈ 1) become equally strongly
suppressed for x >= 0.043. As a consequence, no significant anomaly
associated with the _T__c_1 transition can be resolved for x = 0.0455,
although the _X_ac data clearly indicate a bulk superconducting
transition at a temperature T_(c)^(*) > _T__c_2, cf. Fig. 3.

(3) Upon increasing x to above 0.03 the separation of the transition
temperatures _T__c_1 and _T__c_2 continuously narrows in agreement with
specific heat.[16] For x = 0.052 where only a single phase-transition
anomaly can be resolved, the susceptibility data indicate that this
transition coincides with the onset of bulk superconductivity.

Below we give a detailed description of the thermal-expansion results
for the various Th concentrations including the data taken in external
magnetic fields.

Figure 4(a) displays _a_(_T_,_B_) results on an annealed
U0,962Th0,038Be13 sample. For comparison the B = 0 data for an
unannealed sample are included. Unlike the case for x = 0.03 the low-_T_
_n_-state expansion coefficient of this com

Figure 3: Low-temperature specific heat (taken from Refs. [16], [35] for
x > 0.03) (open symbols, right outer scale), thermal expansion (closed
symbols, left outer scale), and ac susceptibility (solid line, lower
inner scale) on polycrystalline U1–_x_Th,Be13 for varying x. Arrows mark
the positions of phase transitions at _T__c_1 and _T__c_2. Dotted
vertical lines correspond to the superconducting nucleation temperatures
the definition of which is described in the text and indicated for x =
0.03.

Figure 2: Low-temperature specific heat (open symbols, right scale) and
thermal expansion (closed symbols, left scale) on UBe13 single crystal
and polycrystalline U1–_x_Th,Be13 with x = 0.017, 0.022, and 0.03. The
specific-heat data for x = 0.017 and 0.022 are taken from Refs. [34] and
[16], respectively. The width of the superconducting transition for x =
0 and 0.017 is indicated by the dotted vertical lines. Arrows for x =
0.022 and 0.03 mark the positions of the phase transitions at _T__c_1
and _T__c_2. _T__c_2 indicates the position of the negative _α_(_T_)
anomaly reported in Ref. [17], cf. text.

pound is negative at B = 0. Besides the pronounced phase-transition
anomaly at _T__c_2 = 438 +- 5 mK only a tiny feature is found at _T__c_1
= 580 +- 5 mK. The latter is shown on expanded scales in the inset. Upon
increasing the magnetic field both phase-transition anomalies become
reduced in size and shifted to lower temperatures. Most remarkably, a
distinct field dependence is observed for the negative _n_-state
expansivity α_(n) : upon increasing the field, the negative α_(n)
becomes rapidly suppressed and a somewhat broadened positive peak
develops. The data taken at highest fields, i.e., 6 and 8 T indicate
that the latter feature almost saturates at this field level and that
there is only a weak–if at all–shift in the position of the maximum
_T_max, towards higher temperatures. From these observations we infer
that the low-temperature _n_-state α(T) consists of at least two
contributions: (i) a strongly field-dependent negative part α_(n),
superimposed on (ii) a peak structure the position of which is only
weakly field dependent in the field range investigated, B ≤ 8 T. The
measurements on the unannealed sample of nominally the same Th
concentration reveal qualitatively the same behavior [thick solid line
in Fig. 4(a)]. It is noteworthy, however, that annealing apparently
affects the various low-_T_ features differently: while the anomalous
contribution | α_(n)| as well as the transition temperature _T__c_2 are
reduced for the annealed sample (_T__c_2 = 404 +- 5 mK compared to 438
+- 5 mK for the unannealed sample), the transition at _T__c_1 remains
virtually unchanged, cf. inset Fig. 4(a).

In Fig. 4(b) we show the results for U0.957Th0.043Be13. Compared to the
data for x = 0.038,| α_(n)| is enhanced for this compound. At the same
time both phase-transition anomalies are reduced in size in such a way
that at _T__c_1 only a break in the slope in α(T) can be resolved. The
assignment of the latter feature to the _T__c_1 transition is
corroborated by ac-susceptibility measurements (cf. Fig. 3) yielding a
nucleation temperature T_(c)^(χ) that coincides with this small α(T)
anomaly, cf. inset of Fig. 4(b) [Schreiner _et al._ have previously
found a small anomaly in C at _T__c_1 for U0.957Th0.043Be13 that also
corresponds to T_(c)^(χ) (Ref. 38)]. As for the x = 0.038 sample we find
that with increasing fields the phase-transition anomaly at _T__c_2
becomes reduced in size and shifted to lower temperatures. This is
accompanied by the suppression of the negative α_(n). At the highest
field of B = 8 T a broadened positive peak shows up.

In Fig. 5 we display the data for U0.9545Th0.0455Be13–a system that
according to Ref. 16 is located very close to the second critical
concentration _x__c_2. Following the trend observed for the smaller Th
concentrations, a negative α_(n) is found to dominate the
low-temperature n state. Further on, only one phase-transition anomaly
can be resolved at _T__c_2 = 452 +- 10 mK. Figure 5 demonstrates that
the superconducting transition, _T__c_1, as indicated by the arrow at
T_(c)^(χ) does not cause any significant response in α. The same holds
true for the specific heat, cf. Fig. 3. Applications of a magnetic field
cause a reduction of _T__c_2 and a suppression of the negative α_(n)
contribution similar to the observations made for the samples with
smaller x values. In contrast to the latter, however, no clear maximum
structure can be resolved in fields up to 8 T, the highest fields
available. A similar behavior is found for U0.948Th0.052Be13, cf. Fig.
5(b). The negative α_(n) is of about the same size as that for the x =
0.0455 sample [note the different scales in Figs. 5(a) and 5(b)]. Only
one phase-transition anomaly at 375 +- 5 mK can be resolved. According
to the evolution of the phase-transition anomalies as a function of x
for x ≈ 0.0455 (cf. Fig. 3), it is tempting to associate this feature
with the _T__c_2 transition–an assignment which is also corroborated by
specific-heat results,[16] cf. Fig. 3. The measurements of the ac
susceptibility indicate that for this

Figure 4: (a) Coefficient of thermal expansion for an annealed
polycrystal U0.962Th0.038Be13 in magnetic fields of B = 0, 2, 4, 6, and
8 T from bottom to top. The thick solid line represent data for an
unannealed polycrystal of nominally the same Th concentration. Arrow at
_T_max marks the position of the maximum in α(T) at B = 8 T. The inset
shows the data for the annealed (symbols) and unannealed (solid line)
samples close to _T__c_1 on expanded scales. Broken lines indicate
idealized sharp phase transitions at _T__c_1. (b) Coefficient of thermal
expansion on polycrystalline U0.957Th0.043Be13 in magnetic fields of B =
0, 2, 4, 5, and 8 T from bottom to top. The inset magnifies the B = 0
data around _T__c_1. The arrow at T_(c)^(χ) marks the position of the
superconducting nucleation temperature as defined in the text.

concentration T_(c2) almost coincides with the onset of bulk
superconductivity at T_(c)^(X). At a magnetic field of 4 T the
signatures of the T_(c2) transition are lost in α(T, B), while
$\chi_{\rm ac}$ still reveals a superconducting transition at
$T_{c}^{X}(4\,{\rm T})\!=\!0.1\,{\rm K}$ (indicated by the arrow at the
4 T data). Although becoming substantially reduced with increasing field
the negative α_(n) contribution can be resolved up to 8 T for this
concentration.

The positions of the phase-transition anomalies in
$\alpha(T,B\!=\!{\rm const})$ and $\chi_{\rm ac}(T,B\!=\!{\rm const})$
are used to construct B ⋅ T phase diagrams for all samples investigated,
cf. Fig. 6(b)-6(f). For comparison we show in Fig. 6(a) the B ⋅ T
diagram of pure UBe₁₃ using different scales. Besides the data for the
upper critical field, B_(c2), Fig. 6(a) includes also the positions
where anomalies in $\alpha(T,B\!=\!{\rm const})$ and
$C(B,T\!=\!{\rm const})$ were found [17, 36] giving rise to a line of
anomalies $B\!\cdot\!{\rm 4}$. This line starts at
$T_{L}\!\approx\!0.7\,{\rm K}$ (B = 0) and terminates at
$B\!\ast\!\leq\!5\,{\rm T}$.

For thoriated samples inside the concentration range x_(c1)<  x_(c2) the
two transitions remain distinct in magnetic fields but become closer
upon increasing the field. A crossing of the phase-transition lines as a
function of magnetic field is not observed. For U_(0.957)Th_(0.043)Be₁₃
where the T_(c1) transition causes only a minor feature in α(T) [and
C(T) (Ref. [38]]), its evolution with field can be followed up only for
fields $B\!\leq\!1\,{\rm T}$ above which no significant response is
found in α(T, B) anymore. By means of ac susceptibility measurements we
were able to follow the superconducting transition temperature to higher
fields. While T_(c)^(X) and the transition temperature read off the
thermal-expansion data, T_(c1)^(α), coincide at B = 0, they deviate in
small fields for reasons which are not known, cf. Fig. 6(e). Most
interestingly, Fig. 6(e) suggests that the critical fields of the
transitions at T_(c1) and T_(c2) merge in for T → 0. For
U_(0.948)Th_(0.052)Be₁₃ the field dependence of the phase-transition
temperature T_(c2) deduced from thermal-expansion and specific-heat
measurements almost coincides with T_(c)^(X)(B).

Figure 7 compiles in a T ⋅ x phase diagram our results on the various
anomalies and phase transitions for U_(1 − x)Th_(x)Be₁₃.

## IV Evolution of low-temperature anomalies as a function of Th
concentration

Negative thermal-expansion contribution α_(s)–its possible interrelation
with the T_(c2) transition

As demonstrated in Figs. 2 and 3, Th doping not only causes a
nonmonotonic T_(c)(x) dependence accompanied by a double phase
transition within a limited x range but also induces anomalies in the
n-state properties that are well pronounced in the coefficient of
thermal expansion. Two anomalous contributions have been extracted, both
of which vary with x: a somewhat broadened and weakly field

Figure 6: B ⋅ T phase diagrams of U_(1 − x)Th_(x)Be₁₃ for varying x. The
diagram for UBe₁₃ (a) is taken from Ref. [36] (note the different
scales). It includes the upper critical field, B_(c2), and the line of
anomalies B *, as determined by $\alpha(T,B\!=\!{\rm const})$ (▾) and
$C(T\!=\!{\rm const},B)$ (▴) measurements. (b)–(f) Field dependences of
phase-transition anomalies in the coefficient of thermal expansion at
T_(c1) (⬧) and T_(c2) (▾) as well as superconducting nucleation
temperatures T_(c)^(X) (◇) derived from ac susceptibility measurements.
The solid lines are guides to the eyes.

Figure 5: Coefficient of thermal expansion on polycrystalline
U_(0.9545)Th_(0.0455)Be₁₃ (a) and U_(0.945)Th_(0.052)Be₁₃ (b) at varying
magnetic fields. The arrows at T_(c)^(X) mark the positions of the
superconducting nucleation temperatures as defined in the text.

dependent peak anomaly at $T_{\rm max}$ besides a strongly
field-dependent negative contribution α_(n). The latter dominates the
low-Tn-state expansivity for samples with x ≥ 0.038. To follow its
temperature and x dependence we plot in Fig. 8 the α(T) data for some
selected Th concentrations over an enlarged temperature range. Upon
cooling, the negative contribution gradually grows with an onset
temperature around 3 to 4 K that augments with increasing x.
Interestingly enough, the data suggest an anticorrelation of this
feature with the phase transition at T_(c2): the larger the negative
contribution | α_(n)| the smaller the phase-transition anomaly at
T_(c2). In fact, such an interrelation becomes obvious when plotting the
relative length changes, ΔI(T)/l, as a function of temperature for the
compounds 0.043, 0.0455, and 0.052, i.e., for systems close to x_(c2)
that lack the peak anomaly at $T_{\rm max}$ in zero magnetic field, cf.
Fig. 9. In order to compare the anomalous ΔI(T)/l contributions for the
three compounds on a more quantitative basis, the curves for x = 0.043
and 0.052 where data up to 6 K are available have been vertically
shifted so that they collapse at the high-temperature end. There, the
identical slopes of the data indicate a concentration independent α(T)
behavior at higher temperatures. For the lack of high-temperature data
for x = 0.0455, the position of the corresponding ΔI(T)/l curve in Fig.
9 is somehow arbitrary. It can be roughly estimated, however, by
considering the slope of the data at highest temperatures being
intermediate between the slopes for the x = 0.043 and 0.052 curves. As
indicated for x = 0.043 and 0.052, the ΔI/l data taken in magnetic
fields of B = 8 T split off from the B = 0 curve at elevated
temperatures of, respectively, 3 and 5 K, reflecting the strong field
dependence of the anomalous upturn in ΔI(T)/l (negative α_(n)
contribution). The comparison of the ΔI(T)/l curves in Fig. 9 reveals an
overall length change (elongation) upon cooling from 6 K down to 50 mK,
the lowest temperature of our experiment, which is similar for the three
compounds. Fig. 9 suggests that what happens upon increasing x from
0.043 to 0.0455 and 0.052 is a shift of relative weight of the anomalous
ΔI(T)/l contributions to higher temperatures: an increase of the gradual
length change at higher temperatures (negative α_(n) contribution) at
the cost of the rapid elongation associated with the transition at
T_(c2). This observation hints at a common nature of both phenomena–an
assignment that is also corroborated by their strikingly similar, strong
field response, cf. Figs. 4 and 5. We, therefore, propose that α_(n) is
due to the freezing out of short-range correlations above the long-range
ordering at T_(c2).

Figure 8: Coefficient of thermal expansion on polycrystalline
U_(1 − x)Th_(x)Be₁₃ for x = 0.038, 0.043, and 0.052 over an extended
temperature range. The curves are shifted along both axes for clarity.
The data for x = 0.052 include results taken in B = 6 T (solid line).

Figure 9: Relative length changes ΔI/l vs T of U_(1 − x)Th_(x)Be₁₃ for x
= 0.043, 0.0455, and 0.052. The data for x = 0.043 and 0.052 have been
shifted vertically so that they collapse at T = 6 K (for the x = 0.0455
data, see text). Broken lines represent the high-temperature part of the
data taken in B = 8 T.

### The normal- to superconducting-state transition at T_(c)(x) and
T_(c1)(x)

Following the shape of the phase-transition anomalies in the
concentration range where they are well pronounced, i.e., for 0 ≤x≪
0.03, our data do not support the notion of two different types of
superconducting phase transitions on both sides of x_(c1). Rather the
α(T) results indicate a common nature of the two transitions, i.e., that
T_(c)(x) connects to T_(c1)(x), and that this T_(c)(x) - T_(c1)(x) line
persists in staying above the T_(L)(x) - T_(c2)(x) line, cf. Fig. 7.
Hence, our thermal-expansion data are inconsistent with a crossing of
two phase boundaries as a function of x at x_(c1) that has been
discussed by several authors.[23, 24, 25] Likewise, no evidence is found
for a crossing of the phase boundaries as a function of magnetic field,
cf. Fig. 6 and Ref. [39] for x = 0.022.

### Hydrostatic-pressure dependences of T_(c1)(x) and T_(c2)(x)

Combining the phase-transition anomalies shown in Figs. 2 and 3 at
T_(c1/2) in α, Δ α_(1/2), with those in C, Δ C_(1/2), via the Ehrenfest
relation allows for a determination of the hydrostatic-pressure
dependences of T_(c1/2) in the limit of vanishing pressure:

$$\left(\frac{\partial T_{c1/2}}{\partial p}\right)_{p\to 0}=V_{\rm mol}\ T_{c1/2}\frac{\Delta\beta_{1/2}}{\Delta\,C_{1/2}},$$

where for the present cubic systems, the discontinuity in the
volume-expansion coefficient Δβ is related to Δα via Δ β_(1/2) =
3Δ α_(1/2). For the molar volume we use that of pure UBe₁₃ of
$V_{\rm mol}$ = 8.13× 10⁻⁵ cm³/mol. The Δα and Δ C values for x = 0.0331
were read off the data shown in Ref. [30]. In Fig. 10 we compare the
so-derived numbers with the initial pressure coefficients as read off
susceptibility data taken under hydrostatic-pressure conditions by
Lambert _et al.[40]_. To allow for comparison with the above
thermodynamic results for ∂T_(c)(x)/∂p and ∂T_(c1)(x)/∂p we approximate
their initial slope, ∂T_(c)(x)/∂p, by using the T_(c)(x) curves at p = 0
and 2 kbars (Fig. 2 of Ref. [40]). Except for small differences at
concentrations above x_(c1) where ∂T_(c1)(x)/∂p shows a pronounced
minimum, both data sets are in fair overall agreement. Figure 10
demonstrates that Th substitution affects the pressure dependence in a
rather nonmonotonic manner: after a smooth initial increase in
| ∂T_(c)(x)/∂p|, the pressure coefficient sharply peaks at a
concentration slightly above x_(c1). For x sufficiently far above
x_(c1)–but still below x_(c2) = | ∂T_(c1)(x)/∂p| drops again to a value
close to the one found for x = 0. Rather than reflecting two different
types of superconductivity separated by x_(c1), as is frequently stated,
the above results for | ∂T_(c)(x)/∂p| indicate an anomaly that should be
associated with a critical Th concentration–most likely x_(c1).

Figure 10 also includes the pressure coefficient of the transition
temperature T_(c2),∂T_(c2)(x)/∂p, as calculated by means of the
Ehrenfest relation. We find a strong concentration dependence of
| ∂T_(c2)(x)/∂p| with a distinct maximum around x = 0.038.[41] We note
that for x = 0.022, the above thermodynamic results are at variance with
the pressure coefficient inferred from specific-heat measurements
performed under uniaxial stress and converted to hydrostatic-pressure
units of ∂T_(c2)/∂p = − 14± 3 mK/kbar.[18]

### The 2 K maximum

The low-temperature n-state expansivity of UBe₁₃ is governed by a
pronounced peak centered around $T_{\rm max}$ = 2 K. At the same
temperature more or less pronounced maxima are found also in the
electrical resistivity[4, 23, 43, 42] and specific heat.[4, 6] Via
thermal-expansion measurements on thoriated samples with x ≪ 0.03, a
strictly linear suppression of $T_{\rm max}$ with increasing x was
observed.[36] This result is in accordance with the positions of the
C(T) maxima reported in Ref. [6]. Most interestingly, an intersection of
$T_{\rm max}(x)$ and T_(c1)(x) was found to occur right at x = 0.03,[36]
i.e., where T_(c1)(x) attains its maximum value. The maximum structure
in α(T) is shown for the various Th concentrations in Fig. 11. For weak
Th dopings, i.e., x = 0.01, 0.017, and 0.022 the maximum progressively
grows in size and narrows. At x = 0.03 the maximum is reduced while its
position is found to coincide with the superconducting transition at
T_(c1) that manifests itself in the steep drop of α(T) upon cooling.
This coincidence at B = 0 can be demonstrated by applying a field of B =
3 T that causes a reduction of T_(c1) by more than 0.2 K, cf. Fig. 11.
Furthermore, a comparison of the various B = 0 curves with the
corresponding ones taken at B = 2 T in Fig. 11 indicate a distinct, with
x growing field dependence of the low-temperature α(T) behavior.
Assuming that the 2 K maximum itself is rather robust against magnetic
fields as observed for pure UBe₁₃ [see also Ref. [4] for C(T, B) data]
and also indicated by the only weakly field-dependent maximum position,
it is tempting to attribute the field dependent α(T) contribution to the
presence of a finite α_(n) < 0 at B = 0. The small but finite field
effect visible in the data for x = 0.01 suggests that the negative α_(n)
contribution is already

Figure 10: Pressure dependences of the critical temperature
$T_{\rm crit}$ (= T_(c), T_(c1), and T_(c2)) vs x. Closed symbols
correspond to pressure coefficients derived from the Ehrenfest relation,
see text. The corresponding pressure coefficient for x = 0.01 is taken
from Ref. [17], the one for x = 0.0331 is calculated by using Δα and Δ C
values read off data shown in Ref. [30]. Open circles mark the pressure
coefficients of T_(c) and T_(c1) as read off susceptibility data taken
under hydrostatic-pressure conditions in Ref. [40]. Vertical dotted
lines indicate the critical concentrations x_(c1) and x_(c2).

present at this low doping level and that it grows with x, cf. Fig. 11.
For x = 0.03 the negative α_(n) may be directly seen at temperatures
T_(c1) ≈ T ≈ T_(c2) where α exhibits a plateau at negative values out of
which the transition at T_(c2) emerges, cf. Fig. 2.

As shown in Figs. 4 and 5 for the compounds with x > 0.03, there is no
maximum structure visible in the α(T) data at B = 0. Here, the n-state
expansivity is governed by the negative α_(n) contribution that sets in
at somewhat elevated temperatures. In finite fields strong enough to
substantially reduce this negative contribution, however, a rather small
maximum structure can be resolved at low temperatures, cf. Fig. 4 and
11. Unlike the weakly doped systems, x ≈ 0.03, the position of the
maxima for x = 0.038 and 0.043 appears to be affected by the field–an
effect which is most likely due to both an energy scale, $T_{\rm max}$,
being already very small for the latter systems as well as the higher
fields used in order to make the anomaly visible. To account for this
effect in determining $T_{\rm max}$ for these higher concentrations, we
employ a linear extrapolation of $T_{\rm max}(B)$ to B = 0. As
demonstrated in Fig. 7, the so-derived temperatures $T_{\rm max}(x)$ for
x > 0.03 do fall within the experimental uncertainties on the
continuation of the linear $T_{\rm max}(x)$ dependence observed for
x ≈ 0.03.

From specific-heat [44, 45] and resistivity [46, 47] studies under
pressure it is known that $T_{\rm max}(p)$ shifts to higher temperatures
with increasing pressure. Since Th doping causes an increase of the
lattice parameter, corresponding to a negative pressure, a reduction of
$T_{\rm max}(x)$ as a function of x is expected as a result of the
Th-induced expansion of the unit-cell volume. In order to quantify the
relative role of the pure volume effect on the $T_{\rm max}(x)$
dependence, we compare in Fig. 12 the shifts in $T_{\rm max}$ caused by
the application of pressure to pure UBe₁₃ with those induced by Th
doping. The room-temperature lattice constants are used as an abscissa.
For the thoriated compounds the lattice parameters are known from
x-ray-diffraction studies [16]. For the pressure experiments on pure
UBe₁₃ we convert the pressure values into lattice parameters using the
isothermal compressibility κ_(T) =  − V⁻¹× ∂V/∂p = 0.97 (Mbar)⁻¹.

As clearly demonstrated in Fig. 12 the reduction of $T_{\rm max}(x)$ for
the Th-doped compounds is much stronger compared to the shift expected
for the pure volume effect. The latter accounts for about 15

## V Discussion

### On the nature of the phase transition at T_(c2)

Despite the numerous attempts to unravel the nature of the state below
the transition at T_(c2) no consensus has been achieved yet. Important
early experimental findings include (i) a pronounced peak in the
ultrasound attenuation at T_(c2) indicative of a SDW-type ordering below
T_(c2) (Ref. [20]) that coexists with superconductivity. (ii) A sudden
increase in the slope of the lower critical field, B_(c1), when cooling
the sample below T_(c2)[22]. This result has been interpreted to reflect
the increase in the Cooper-pair density as a consequence of a second
superconducting transition at T_(c2)[22]. It has been suggested by these
authors that below T_(c2) additional parts of the Fermi surface
participate in the superconducting order parameter. (iii) On the other
hand, muon spin rotation measurements revealed that an effective
electronic magnetic moment of 10⁻³ μ_(B) per U atom is formed below
T_(c2)[21].

These seemingly conflicting experimental results have been explained by
proposing a superconducting state that

Figure 12: Variation of the position of the peak anomaly at
$T_{\rm max}$ with the lattice parameter. For UBe₁₃ the results of
pressure studies on the specific heat (Ref. [44]) (open triangle) and
resistivity (Ref. [47]) (open squares) are used, where the pressure
values (upper scale) are transformed into lattice constants (lower
scale) by means of the isothermal compressibility. Closed squares
indicate positions of the thermal-expansion maxima at
$T_{\rm max}^{\alpha}$ for the various U_(1 − x)Th${}_{\rm B}$Be₁₃
samples investigated (x ≈ 0.03). The lattice parameters were taken from
Ref. [16].

Figure 11: A section of the low-temperature thermal-expansion data on
U_(1 − x)Th${}_{\rm B}$Be₁₃ around the peak anomaly at $T_{\rm max}$ for
varying x. For x ≈ 0.03, where the peak anomaly is visible already at
B = 0 (◼), data at B = 2 T (◇) [and 3 T (◼) for x = 0.03] are included.
A finite field is necessary for x = 0.038 and 0.043 to make the anomaly
visible.

breaks time-reversal symmetry and, thus, shows magnetic signatures.[23,
25] On the basis of the phase diagram given in Ref. [48] that is similar
to the one shown in Fig. 1 except for the line T_(L)(x) and the
curvature of T_(c2)(x), it has been proposed[25] that as a function of
x, two different types of (anisotropic) superconductivity cross at
x = x_(c1) ≈ 0.019. As a consequence, the states below T_(c) for
x < x_(c1) and T_(c1) for x> x_(c1) were attributed to single but
different representations of the cubic symmetry group while the state
below T_(c2) was considered to be a combination of these two
representations. Since this state is nonunitary it is expected to
generate certain magnetic properties[49] that may explain[25] the
experimental observations.

More recent experimental investigations brought to light results that,
on the one hand, provide intriguing new details on the T-x phase
diagram. On the other hand, in some cases, these results call into
question the analysis and interpretation of the above discussed earlier
experiments. As an example of the latter, we mention investigations of
the vortex dynamics in the mixed state of single crystalline
U_(0.9725)Th_(0.0275)Be₁₃ by Mota _et al.[27]_ The authors find an
abrupt increase of the pinning strength upon cooling the system below
T_(c2). Since pinning affects the critical field above which the
diamagnetic magnetization of a superconductor exposed to a weak magnetic
field departs from a linear field dependence, this abrupt increase of
the pinning strength may provide a natural explanation for the observed
increase of that experimentally determined critical field [> B_(c1)
(Ref. [50])] upon cooling through T_(c2).

Careful specific-heat measurements on a new generation of
U_(1 − x)Th_(x)Be₁₃ polycrystals revealed (i) a pronounced peaking of
the phase-transition anomaly, Δ C, upon approaching x_(c1) and x_(c2)
from outside the two-transition region[16] and (ii) an in-T linear
contribution, $C_{\rm lin}\!=\!\gamma_{\rm rest}T$, to the
low-temperature specific heat in the superconducting state that varies
systematically with x.[51] It was argued that both the size and
concentration dependence of $\gamma_{\rm rest}$ are consistent with Th
acting as resonant scattering centers in an anisotropic superconducting
state with gap nodes.[51]

On the other hand, our previous dilatometric investigations on thoriated
samples with x ≈ 0.03 provided clear evidence for the existence of an
additional line in the T-x phase diagram of U_(1 − x)Th_(x)Be₁₃ at
T_(L)(x) < T_(c)(x) for x < x_(c1).[17] Most importantly, these results
demonstrate that T_(L)(x) for x < x_(c1) marks the precursor of the
phase transition at T_(c2) at x > x_(c1), i.e., T_(c2)(x) represents the
continuation of T_(L)(x) at x > x_(c1). It is clear that this finding is
incompatible with all scenarios that consider a crossing of two phase
transition lines at x_(c1)[23, 24, 25]

Arguments in favor of such a crossing were derived from pressure studies
on T_(c)(x) performed on both sides of x_(c1).[40] As Fig. 10 clearly
demonstrates, however, the variation of ∂T_(c)/∂p with x does not
support the above proposal of two different superconducting states
separated by x_(c1). For example, the pressure coefficients for x = 0
and x = 0.0331 of, respectively, ∂T_(c)/∂p =  − 13 mK/kbar and
∂T_(c1)/∂p =  − 14 mK/kbar are almost identical. The results depicted in
Fig. 10 rather suggest that the anomaly in |∂T_(c)(x)/∂p|, i.e., the
large pressure dependence of T_(c) in a narrow concentration range is
caused by the nearness to x_(c1).

A new and important piece of information provided by the present work on
the nature of the T_(c2) transition is the observation of its close
interrelation with the anomalous properties slightly above T_(c2), i.e.,
the negative contribution α_(n)(T) that grows with x. Our data suggest
that with increasing x, relative weight of the transition at T_(c2)
becomes progressively transferred to this anomalous state above T_(c2).
While a superconducting origin of the negative α_(n) can be definitely
ruled out by our $X_{\rm sc}$ measurements, both the sign as well as the
strong field dependence of this contribution rather signal a magnetic
character.

As for the implications of these new findings for the interpretation of
the various phases and phase transitions in the T-x phase diagram of
U_(1 − x)Th_(x)Be₁₃, we arrive at two possible scenarios both of which
imply an intimate interrelation of superconductivity and the
symmetry-broken state that forms below T_(c2). Fundamental to both
scenarios is the existence of the line T_(L)(x) < T_(c)(x) for
x < x_(c1) that evolves into the T_(c2) line for x > x_(c1). Judging
from the broad features in α(T) at T_(L) and the even less pronounced
ones in C(T),[17] it appears unlikely that T_(L) manifests a true phase
transition even if allowing for a substantial inhomogeneous
broadening.[52] Rather we believe that the shape as well as the sign of
the α(T) features indicate short-range correlations most likely of
antiferromagnetic nature.[53]

(1) Upon increasing x to above x_(c1) these correlations become long
range and T_(c2)(x) manifests a purely antiferromagnetic transition,
i.e., a SDW ordering,[20] accompanied by a very small ordered moment of
about 10⁻³μ_(B). The sizable discontinuity in the specific heat at
T_(c2) indicates that a fair fraction of the Fermi surface is involved
in the SDW formation. As soon as long-range order has formed at
x > x_(c1) the superconducting transition temperature recovers by an as
yet unknown reason. One may speculate that the drop in T_(c)(x) at
x = x_(c1) might be the result of critical fluctuations that precede the
formation of the long-range ordered state. At a concentration x = 0.03
at which T_(c1) attains a local maximum, the T_(c1)(x) line intersects
with the $T_{\rm max}(x)$ line. The reduction of both T_(c1)(x) as well
as the accompanied phase-transition anomalies in C(T) and α(T) upon
further increasing x, strongly suggest the onset of a very effective
pairbreaking mechanism in this part of the phase diagram (see below).
Upon approaching x_(c2) ≈ 0.045 from inside the critical concentration
range, the transition into the superconducting state at T_(c1) becomes
gapless, i.e., loses its signatures in C(T) and α(T). With increasing x
to above x_(c2),T_(c1)(x) merges from above in the T_(c2)(x) line at
which it becomes "trapped."

Though this scenario explains some of the experimental observations,
several points remain puzzling:

Does the absence of a linewidth broadening in B= 0μSR experiments on
both sides of the critical concentration range simply reflect an U
moment smaller than 10⁻³μ_(B), i.e., too small to be detected?

Why does the long-range antiferromagnetic order at T_(c2) for x > x_(c2)
"trap" the superconducting transition while the phenomenologically
related short-range correlations above T_(c2) leave superconductivity
unaffected?

What causes the field dependence of T_(c2) to be so similar to–and on
increasing x even approaching–that of T_(c1)? On the other hand, a
purely superconducting transition at T_(c2) would be in conflict with
both the broad features at T_(L) for x<x_(c1) as well as the close
interrelation with the short-range (most likely magnetic) phenomena at
T>T_(c2). Therefore, we consider as an alternative scenario the
possibility of combined magnetic and superconducting order parameters:

(2) The formation of magnetic correlations below the T_(L)-T_(c2) line
is intimately coupled to a second superconducting order parameter. For
x<x_(c1) the correlations are short ranged and there is no second
superconducting transition in this part of the phase diagram. For
x>x_(c1), however, long-range magnetic correlations below T_(c2) go
along with a second superconducting transition. As the T_(c1) transition
becomes gapless for x→x_(c2), the transition seen for x>x_(c2) is then
into this combined magnetic superconducting state.

Besides the problem connected with the size of the magnetic moment on
both sides of the critical concentration range, this proposal faces the
questions:

What causes the intimate coupling of the second superconducting to the
magnetic order parameter? Is it the strong tendency towards a SDW
formation that is inherent to anisotropic superconducting states?[57] In
this case, where the primary order parameter associated with T_(c2)
would be of superconducting nature, how do we have to interpret the
broad features at T_(L)(x)?

Why do _two_ superconducting transitions at T_(c1) and T_(c2) occur? Are
they connected to different portions of the Fermi surface?[58] Can these
two superconducting order parameters form a combined one below T_(c2)
such that the strong pinning effects[27] are explained by dissociation
of vortices in domain walls?[29]

### The second low-energy scale $T_{\rm max}$ and its implication for
superconductivity

Besides the characteristic (Kondo) scale T* of the order 8-25 K,[23, 43]
which accounts for the extremely large effective carrier masses, there
exists at least one more low-energy scale in UBe₁₃. The latter manifests
itself in a distinct maximum in the coefficient of thermal expansion and
a less pronounced shoulder in the specific heat around 2 K.[4, 6] At
about the same temperature, a distinct maximum shows up in the
resistivity as well.[1, 42] Remarkably enough, the response observed for
the peaks in the resistivity[46, 47] and specific heat[44, 45] is
identical to the application of external pressure (in the pressure range
where both quantities have been studied, i.e., p≤4.4 kbar), but is
strikingly different to magnetic fields. While the peak in C (and α) has
an only very weak field dependence[4] the resistivity maximum is rather
sensitive to magnetic fields.[42]

As discussed in Ref. [36] both the positive sign and the shape of the
α(T) anomaly at $T_{\rm max}$ are reminiscent of local Kondo-type spin
fluctuations. In fact, a crude estimate of the respective contributions
to the thermal expansion $\delta\alpha_{2\,{\rm K}}$ and specific heat
$\delta C_{2\,{\rm K}}$=C(x=0)−C(x=0.06) as read off the data shown in
Ref. [3], yields a corresponding Gruneisen parameter for pure UBe₁₃

$$\Gamma_{2\,{\rm K}}\!\!=\!\frac{3\,V_{\rm mol}\delta\alpha_{2\,{\rm K}}}{ \delta C_{2\,{\rm K}}}$$

of $\Gamma_{2\,{\rm K}}\!\!=\!100\!\pm\!20$ typical for low-lying Kondo
fluctuations.[59, 60] Since Γ is related to the volume dependence of the
characteristic temperature $T_{\rm max}$ via
$\Gamma\!\!=\!-\!\partial\ln T_{\rm max}/\partial\ln V\!\!=\!\kappa_{T}T_{\rm max }^{-1}\,\partial T_{\rm max}/\partial p$,
it is instructive to compare $\Gamma_{2\,{\rm K}}$ with this number,
i.e., the Gruneisen parameter Γ using the results of pressure studies on
the 2 K anomaly. Both resistivity[46, 47] as well as specific-heat
measurements under hydrostatic-pressure conditions[44, 45] yield
Γ  = 110 in good agreement with the above thermodynamic results.

With increasing Th concentration the characteristic temperature (energy
scale) $T_{\rm max}$ becomes linearly suppressed. It was shown that this
reduction is predominantly caused by Th-induced changes in the
electronic states and to an only minor extent influenced by the
accompanied lattice expansion. Investigations in magnetic fields
sufficiently strong to suppress both the phase-transition anomalies
associated with T_(c1) and T_(c2) as well as the negative α_(n) above
T_(c2) for x>0.03 demonstrate that the 2 K anomaly persists in this part
of the phase diagram. Its position follows, to a good approximation, the
linear $T_{\rm max}(x)$ dependence found for x<0.03. Moreover, Fig. 7
suggests that $T_{\rm max}(x)$ terminates at a concentration x≈0.043
that is very close to x_(c2). Whether this coincidence is accidental or
whether $T_{\rm max}$→0 even marks the second critical concentration
remains an interesting question that deserves further investigation.

An interrelation of $T_{\rm max}(x)$ and superconductivity is suggested
by the fact that the T_(c1)(x) and $T_{\rm max}(x)$ lines intersect
right at x=0.03 where T_(c1) attains its maximum. As pointed out in Ref.
[36] the reduction of T_(c1) for x>0.03 would be compatible with
$T_{\rm max}$ representing the characteristic temperature of local
Kondo-type spin fluctuations: As long as $T_{\rm max}$>T_(c), these
fluctuations are to a substantial extent frozen out, i.e., harmless for
superconductivity. Once this inequality is reversed at x=0.03, i.e.,
$T_{\rm max}$ has become smaller than T_(c1), however, these
fluctuations represent an effective pair-breaking mechanism which may
account for the strong pair-breaking effects found for x≥0.038, i.e.,
the efficient reduction in Δ α₁ and Δ C₁. The above results are
consistent with a two-band scenario where $T_{\rm max}$ has the meaning
of a Kondo temperature of ’more localized’ 5f states, while T* ∼8−25 K
is the characteristic temperature of the ’less localized’ ones. The
latter are the carriers of heavy-fermion superconductivity.

On the other hand, an interpretation of the 2 K anomaly greatly
contrasting the one given above has been put forward by Knetsch _et
al.[3]_ based on the analysis of resistivity measurements. The authors
found a strongly nonlinear x dependence of the resistivity maximum
$T_{\rm max}^{\rho}$, which extrapolates into the critical point which
marks the local minimum of T_(c)(x) at x=x_(c1). Based on the location
of $T_{\rm max}^{\rho}(x)$ in the T-x phase diagram, this feature was
interpreted to represent nonlocal spin fluctuations that are pair
breaking as long as $T_{\rm max}^{\rho}(x)$>T_(c)(x). Once
$T_{\rm max}^{\rho}(x)$ becomes exceeded by T_(c)(x) at x=x_(c1), these
fluctuations are frozen out allowing T_(c1)(x) to rise.[5]

Although one cannot definitely rule out the existence of _two_ distinct
low-T scales measured by $T_{\rm max}^{\rho}$ and
$T_{\rm max}^{\alpha}$, which are degenerate at x=0 but split off at
finite x and have, e.g., to be associated with independent anomalies in
the charge and spin channels, the above discrepancy might simply re
flect difficulties in following the rather small feature at
$T_{\rm max}^{\rho}$ as a function of x. The latter notion is supported
by the equivalence of the Gruneisen parameters derived from resistivity
measurements at x = 0 under pressure and from the ambient-pressure
thermodynamic results.

## VI Conclusion

By means of high-resolution thermal-expansion measurements the
low-temperature normal- and superconducting-state properties of
U_(1 − x)Th_(x)UBe₁₃ have been explored over a wide concentration range
0 ≈ x ≈ 0.052. Owing to the strong coupling of the low-temperature
electronic properties to the lattice degrees of freedom that
characterizes this system, these studies enabled us to disclose new
features in the _T-x_ plane that have been overseen by all other
techniques applied to this system so far. Besides a nonmonotonic x
dependence of the superconducting transition temperature and the
occurrence of a second phase transition as a function of temperature
within a certain x range, the substitution of thorium for uranium is
found to cause additional anomalies that appear to be intimately related
to the irregular points in the _T-x_ phase diagram: The presence of
thorium induces an anomaly in the low-T normal state that manifests
itself in a negative α(T) contribution α_(n). Our analysis indicates a
common (presumably magnetic) nature of this feature and the lower of the
two subsequent phase transitions at T_(c2) for x_(c1) < x < x_(c2): we
propose that α_(n) is due to the freezing out of short-range
correlations above the long-range order below T_(c2). For x < 0.03 the
low-T normal-state expansivity at B = 0 is governed by a pronounced
maximum at $T_{\rm max}(x)$ with $T_{\rm max}(0)\!=\!2\,{\rm K}$ that,
besides $T^{\ast}\!\sim\!8\!-\!25\,{\rm K}$, marks a second low-energy
scale in this system. As we have discussed previously, [36] Th
substitution causes a linear reduction of $T_{\rm max}(x)$ that
intercepts with T_(c1)(x) right at x = 0.03, i.e., where the latter
attains its maximum. Our present measurements in magnetic fields
indicate that (i) this feature persists also for x > 0.03 where, in the
absence of a field, it is masked by the superconducting transition and
(ii) that it follows the linear concentration dependence found for
x < 0.03. The observation that $T_{\rm max}(x)$ vanishes at x ≈ 0.043,
i.e., almost exactly at x_(c2) suggests a close interrelation of this
energy scale with the second irregular point, x_(c2), in the _T-x_
plane. As for the nature of the various phases and phase-transition
lines below the normal- to superconducting-state transition, the present
study together with our previous work [17] reveal intriguing new
aspects: An anomaly in the superconducting state was found at
T_(L)  < T_(c) for x < x_(c1) that marks the precursor of the transition
at T_(c2) for x > x_(c1). As an important consequence, this observation
rules out all scenarios that consider the crossing of two different
types of (anisotropic) superconducting states at x_(c1). Rather our data
indicate that T_(c)(x) for x < x_(c1) connects to T_(c1)(x) at x_(c1)
and that the corresponding T_(c)-T_(c1) line stays above the
T_(L)-T_(c2) line. Upon increasing x to above 0.03, the progressive
reduction of the phase-transition anomalies at T_(c1) in both thermal
expansion Δ α₁ and specific heat Δ C₁ indicate the action of an
effective pair-breaking mechanism in this part of the _T-x_ phase
diagram that leads to a gapless superconducting state for x → x_(c2). As
a possible source, we propose local Kondo-type spin fluctuations that
manifest themselves in the anomalies at $T_{\rm max}(x)$. Since at
x = x_(c2) the T_(c1) transition has lost its signatures in both α(T)
and C(T), the phase-transition anomaly seen for x > x_(c2) has to be
associated with the T_(c2) transition. Concomitant measurements of the
ac susceptibility indicate that in this part of the phase diagram T_(c2)
coincides with the normal- to superconducting-state transition. Whether
this coincidence reflects a (gapless) superconducting state (at T_(c1))
that is trapped by an as yet unknown reason by a magnetic phase
transition (at T_(c2)), or whether T_(c2) represents a transition into a
state characterized by a combined magnetic and (second) superconducting
order parameter remains an open question. Further work, in particular
from the theoretical side is required to explore the latter possibility
in more detail.

## Acknowledgments

Numerous fruitful conversations with P. Thalmeier, E.-W. Scheidt, and M.
Tachiki are gratefully acknowledged.

## References

* [1] H. R. Ott, H. Rudigier, Z. Fisk, and J. L. Smith, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**50**, 1595 (1983). * [2] R. Felten, F. Steglich, G. Weber, H.
Rietschel, F. Gompf, B. Renker, and J. Beuers, Europhys. Lett. **2**,
323 (1986). * [3] E. A. Knetsch Ph.D. thesis, University of Leiden,
1993. * [4] H. M. Mayer, U. Rauchschwalbe, C. D. Bredl, F. Steglich, H.
Rietschel, H. Schmidt, H. Wuhl, and J. Beuers, Phys. Rev. B **33**, 3168
(1986). * [5] A. de Visser, N. H. van Dijk, K. Bakker, J. J. M. Franse,
A. Lacerda, J. Flouquet, Z. Fisk, and J. L. Smith, Phys. Rev. B **45**,
2962 (1992). * [6] J. S. Kim and G. R. Stewart, Phys. Rev. B **51**, 16
190 (1995). * [7] J. L. Smith, Z. Fisk, J. O. Willis, B. Batlogg, and H.
R. Ott, J. Appl. Phys. **55**, 1996 (1984). * [8] F. Steglich, P.
Gegenwart, R. Helfrich, C. Langhammer, P. Hellmann, L. Donnevert, C.
Geibel, M. Lang, G. Sparn, W. Assmus, G. R. Stewart, and A. Ochiai, Z.
Phys. B: Condens. Matter **103**, 235 (1997). * [9] P. Gegenwart, C.
Langhammer, C. Geibel, R. Helfrich, M. Lang, G. Sparn, F. Steglich, S.
Horn, L. Donnevert, A. Link, and W. Assmus, Phys. Rev. Lett. **81**,
1501 (1998). * [10] G. Bruls, B. Wolf, D. Finsterbusch, P. Thalmeier, I.
Kouroudis, W. Sun, W. Assmus, B. Luthi, M. Lang, K. Gloos, F. Steglich,
and R. Modler, Phys. Rev. Lett. **72**, 1754 (1994). * [11] Besides
samples with T_(c) values between 0.85 and 0.95 K a second variant of
UBe₁₃ with a markedly lower T_(c) of 0.75 K has recently been
identified. The latter is characterized by distinct differences in both
the normal and superconducting state properties (Refs. 12 and 13). *
[12] C. Langhammer, R. Helfrich, A. Bach, F. Kromer, M. Lang, T.
Michels, M. Deppe, F. Steglich, and G. R. Stewart, J. Magn. Magn. Mater.
**177-181**, 443 (1998). * [13] F. Steglich, C. Geibel, R. Helfrich, F.
Kromer, M. Lang, G. Sparn, P. Gegenwart, L. Donnevert, C. Langhammer, A.
Link, J.

S. Kim, and G. R. Stewart, J. Phys. Chem. Solids **59**, 2190 (1998). *
[14] H. R. Ott, H. Rudigier, T. M. Rice, K. Ueda, Z. Fisk, and J. L.
Smith, Phys. Rev. Lett. **52**, 1915 (1984). * [15] H. R. Ott, H.
Rudigier, Z. Fisk, and J. L. Smith, Phys. Rev. B **31**, 1651 (1985). *
[16] E.-W. Scheidt, T. Schreiner, P. Kumar, and G. R. Stewart, Phys.
Rev. B **58**, 15 153 (1998). * [17] F. Kromer, R. Helfrich, M. Lang, F.
Steglich, C. Langhammer, A. Bach, T. Michels, J. S. Kim, and G. R.
Stewart, Phys. Rev. Lett. **81**, 4476 (1998). * [18] R. J. Zieve, D. S.
Jin, T. F. Rosenbaum, J. S. Kim, and G. R. Stewart, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**72**, 756 (1994). * [19] J. A. Sauls, Adv. Phys. **43**, 113 (1994). *
[20] B. Batlogg, D. Bishop, B. Golding, C. M. Varma, Z. Fisk, J. L.
Smith, and H. R. Ott, Phys. Rev. Lett. **55**, 1319 (1985). * [21] R. H.
Heffner, J. L. Smith, J. O. Willis, P. Birrer, C. Baines, F. N. Gygax,
B. Hitti, E. Lippelt, H. R. Ott, A. Schenck, E. A. Knetsch, J. A.
Mydosh, and D. E. MacLaughlin, Phys. Rev. Lett. **65**, 2816 (1990). *
[22] U. Rauchschwalbe, F. Steglich, G. R. Stewart, A. L. Giorgi, P.
Fulde, and K. Maki, Europhys. Lett. **3**, 751 (1987). * [23] R. Joynt,
T. M. Rice, and K. Ueda, Phys. Rev. Lett. **56**, 1412 (1986). * [24] P.
Kumar and P. Wolfle, Phys. Rev. Lett. **59**, 1954 (1987). * [25] M.
Sigrist and T. M. Rice, Phys. Rev. B **39**, 2200 (1989). * [26] R. J.
Zieve, T. F. Rosenbaum, J. S. Kim, G. R. Stewart, and M. Sigrist, Phys.
Rev. B **51**, 12 041 (1995). * [27] A. C. Mota, E. Dumont, and J. L.
Smith, J. Low Temp. Phys. **117**, 1477 (1999). * [28] E.-W. Scheidt, T.
Schreiner, and G. R. Stewart, J. Low Temp. Phys. **114**, 115 (1999). *
[29] M. Sigrist and D. F. Agterberg, cond-mat/9910526 (unpublished). *
[30] H. R. Ott, H. Rudigier, E. Felder, Z. Fisk, and J. L. Smith, Phys.
Rev. B **33**, 126 (1986). * [31] M. Lang, Ph.D. thesis, TU Darmstadt,
1991. * [32] G. R. Stewart, Rev. Sci. Instrum. **54**, 1 (1983). * [33]
R. Helfrich, Ph.D. thesis, TU Darmstadt, 1998. * [34] D. S. Jin, T. F.
Rosenbaum, J. S. Kim, and G. R. Stewart, Phys. Rev. B **49**, 1540
(1994). * [35] T. Schreiner, E.-W. Scheidt, and G. R. Stewart, Solid
State Commun. **108**, 53 (1998). * [36] M. Lang, R. Helfrich, F.
Kromer, C. Langhammer, F. Steglich, G. R. Stewart, and J. S. Kim,
Physica B **259-261**, 608 (1999). * [37] Note that discrepancies in the
phase-transition temperatures between specific heat and thermal
expansion for U_(0.962)Th_(0.038)Be₁₃ may indicate small differences in
the actual Th concentration for the two samples studied. * [38] T.
Schreiner, E.-W. Scheidt, P. Kumar, and G. R. Stewart, Physica B
**259-261**, 625 (1999). * [39] F. Kromer, M. Lang, F. Steglich, J. S.
Kim, and G. R. Stewart, Physica B **259-261**, 623 (1999). * [40] S. E.
Lambert, Y. Dalichaouch, M. B. Maple, J. L. Smith, and Z. Fisk, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **57**, 1619 (1986). * [41] For x = 0.038 thermal-expansion
data of an annealed sample were combined in the Ehrenfest relation with
specific-heat results on an unannealed one. Both samples, however, have
similar T_(c2) values. * [42] U. Rauchschwalbe, F. Steglich, and H.
Rietschel, Europhys. Lett. **1**, 71 (1986). * [43] E. A. Knetsch, G. J.
Nieuwenhuys, J. A. Mydosh, R. H. Heffner, and J. L. Smith, Physica B
**186-188**, 251 (1993). * [44] N. E. Phillips, R. A. Fisher, J.
Flouquet, A. L. Giorgi, J. A. Olsen, and G. R. Stewart, J. Magn. Magn.
Mater. **63&64**, 332 (1987). * [45] J. D. Thompson, J. Magn. Magn.
Mater. **63&64**, 358 (1987). * [46] J. D. Thompson, M. W. McElfresh, J.
O. Willis, Z. Fisk, J. L. Smith, and M. B. Maple, Phys. Rev. B **35**,
48 (1987). * [47] H. A. Borges, J. D. Thompson, A. C. Aronson, J. L.
Smith, and Z. Fisk, J. Magn. Magn. Mater. **76-77**, 235 (1988). * [48]
H. R. Ott, Helv. Phys. Acta **60**, 62 (1987). * [49] G. E. Volovik and
L. P. Gor’kov, Pis’ma Zh. Eksp. Teor. Fiz. **39**, 550 (1984) [JETP
Lett. **39**, 674 (1984)]; Zh. Eksp. Teor. Fiz. **88**, 1412 (1985)
[Sov. Phys. JETP **61**, 843 (1985)]. * [50] This experimentally
determined critical field is equivalent to B_(c1)_only_ when flux
pinning is sufficiently small. * [51] T. Schreiner, E.-W. Scheidt, and
G. R. Stewart, Europhys. Lett. **48**, 568 (1999). * [52] For an
inhomogeneously broadened transition at x = 0, there would be no reason
why an increase of the thorium (impurity) concentration should cause a
continuous sharpening, i.e., a drastic reduction of the inhomogeneities,
in the way as observed in our experiment. * [53] In this respect we like
to mention thermal-expansion results on polycrystalline CeAl₃ (Ref.
[54]) yielding a negative α(T) anomaly similar to those observed here
for small x. These features have been linked to the occurrence of
quasistatic frustrated magnetic correlations that develop at low
temperatures as observed in μSR experiments (Ref. [55]). Unlike the
present case, however, indications for a spatially inhomogeneous partly
coherent state were found by these studies (Ref. [55]). In fact,
subsequent measurements on carefully prepared single crystalline
material showed that in the strain-released state, CeAl₃ exhibits a
long-range antiferromagnetic order at somewhat elevated temperatures
(Ref. [56]). * [54] M. Ribault, A. Benoit, J. Flouquet, and J. Palleau,
Phys. Lett. **40A**, L413 (1979). * [55] S. Barth, H. R. Ott, F. N.
Gygax, B. Hitti, E. Lippelt, A. Schenck, C. Baines, B. van den Brandt,
T. Konter, and S. Mango, Phys. Rev. Lett. **59**, 2991 (1987). * [56] G.
Lapertot, R. Calemczuk, C. Marcenat, J. Y. Henry, J. X. Boucherle, J.
Flouquet, J. Hammann, R. Cibin, J. Cors, D. Jaccard, and J. Sierro,
Physica B **186-188**, 454 (1993). * [57] K. Machida and M. Kato, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **58**, 1986 (1987). * [58] K. Takegahara and H. Harima,
Physica B **281&282**, 764 (2000). * [59] R. Schefzyk, J. Heibel, F.
Steglich, R. Felten, and G. Weber, J. Magn. Magn. Mater. **47&48**, 83
(1985). * [60] A. de Visser, J. J. M. Franse, A. Lacerda, P. Haen, and
J. Flouquet, Physica B **163**, 49 (1990).
