# Broken time-reversal symmetry in superconducting Pr1-_x_La_(x)Pt₄Ge₁₂

J. Zhang,^(1,) Z. F. Ding,¹ K. Huang,^(1,) C. Tan,¹ A. D. Hillier,² P.
K. Biswas,² D. E. MacLaughlin,³ and L. Shu^(1, 4,)

¹State Key Laboratory of Surface Physics, Department of Physics, Fudan
University, Shanghai 200433, People’s Republic of China

²ISIS Facility, STFC Rutherford Appleton Laboratory, Hanwell Science and
Innovation Campus, Chilton, Didcot, Oxon, United Kingdom

³Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of California,
Riverside, California 92521, USA

⁴Collaborative Innovation Center of Advanced Microstructures, Nanjing
210093, People’s Republic of China

###### Abstract

The superconducting state of the filled skutterudite alloy series
Pr1-_x_La,Pt₄Ge₁₂ has been systematically studied by specific heat and
zero-field muon spin relaxation (μSR), while the critical fields have
been determined by magnetization measurements. An additional
inhomogeneous local magnetic field, indicative of broken time-reversal
symmetry, is observed in the superconducting states of the alloys. For
x ≲ 0.5, the broken-TRS phase sets in below a temperature T_(m),
distinctly lower than the superconducting transition temperature T_(c).
For x ≳ 0.5, T_(m) ≈ T_(c). The local field strength decreases as x → 1,
where LaPt₄Ge₁₂ is characterized by conventional pairing. The lower
critical field H_(c1)(T) of PrPt₄Ge₁₂ shows the onset of a second
quadratic temperature region below T_(q) ∼ T_(m). Upper critical field
H_(c2)(T) measurements suggest multiband superconductivity, and point
gap nodes are consistent with the specific heat data. In
Pr1-_x_La,Pt₄Ge₁₂, only a single specific-heat discontinuity is observed
at T_(c), in contrast to the second jump seen in PrOs₄Sb₁₂ below T_(c).
These results suggest that superconductivity in PrPt₄Ge₁₂ is
characterized by a complex order parameter.

pacs: 10.1103/PhysRevB.100.024508 + Footnote †: Corresponding author:
leishu@fudan.edu.cn

+ Footnote †: Corresponding author: leishu@fudan.edu.cn

+ Footnote †: Corresponding author: leishu@fudan.edu.cn

+ Footnote †: Corresponding author: leishu@fudan.edu.cn

+ Footnote †: Corresponding author: leishu@fudan.edu.cn

+ Footnote †: Corresponding author: leishu@fudan.edu.cn

+ Footnote †: Corresponding author: leishu@fudan.edu.cn

+ Footnote †: Corresponding author: leishu@fudan.edu.cn

+ Footnote †: Corresponding author: leishu@fudan.edu.cn

+ Footnote †: Corresponding author: leishu@fudan.edu.cn

+ Footnote †: Corresponding author: leishu@fudan.edu.cn

## I Introduction

The study of novel superconductors with intrinsic multiple
superconducting phases has broadened the understanding of the
microscopic origin of unconventional superconductivity (SC) [1,2]. A
particular challenge is to clearly identify multiple SC phases in
unconventional superconductors and to interpret their SC order
parameter(s) (OP).

Gauge symmetry is always broken in the superconducting state. A key
indication of multiphase SC is the observation of additional broken
symmetry [time-reversal symmetry (TRS), inversion symmetry] at a
distinct temperature T_(m) below the superconducting transition
temperature T_(c). However, superconductors with intrinsic multiple SC
phases are extremely rare. T_(c) ∼ T_(m) for many superconductors with
broken TRS, such as Sr₂RuO₄[3], LaNiC₂[4], SrPtAs [5], and
Re${\rm\acute{e}}$Zr [6]. Empirically, superconductors with 4f or 5f
electron elements are likely to have complex SC OPs [1,7] that can
possibly lead to the emergence of multiple SC phases. For example,
superconducting U_(1 − x)Th_(x)Be₁₃[8] and UPt₃[9] were found to exhibit
broken TRS at T_(m) < T_(c), which suggests the existence of a second SC
phase below T_(m). The unusual properties of these heavy fermion (HF)
superconductors have led to theories that invoke odd-parity
(spin-triplet) Cooper pairing [2].

Of particular interest in the small family of multiphase superconductors
is the puzzling SC OP of the filled-skutterudite f-electron compound
PrOs₄Sb₁₂[10], which exhibits broken TRS [11]. Several thermodynamic
experiments show evidence for two SC transitions [12,13] in PrOs₄Sb₁₂,
although T_(m) is not clearly below the upper T_(c) = 1.85 K in muon
spin relaxation (μSR) experiments [11] and it has been argued [14] that
the double T_(c) nature is not intrinsic. The SC OP of PrOs₄Sb₁₂ is a
consequence of crystalline-electric-field and strong spin-orbital
coupling (SOC) effects [10], and is complicated by the low T_(c) and HF
behavior.

The isostructural compound PrPt₄Ge₁₂, with a smaller electron effective
mass m^(*), is considered to share great similarity with PrOs₄Sb₁₂ in
the pairing state [15,16], although no multiple SC phases have been
reported. The much higher T_(c) ∼ 7.8 K and non-HF state makes PrPt₄Ge₁₂
a simpler playground to study SC in Pr-based filled skutterudites. Then
the key question is whether the OP in PrPt₄Ge₁₂ is complex, including
the possibility of a spin-triplet state and broken TRS [16, 17, 18, 19,
20, 21].

The pairing symmetry of PrPt₄Ge₁₂ remains controversial. The observed
broken TRS suggests an OP with either spin or orbital moments [17].
Thermodynamic studies reported the presence of pointlike nodes in the SC
energy gap [15]. Superfluid density measurements by transverse-field μSR
[16] suggest a nonunitary chiral p-wave state with gap function
Δ₀|k_(x) ± ik_(y)|, where Δ₀ is the magnitude of the gap. These
experimental observations motivated theoretical predictions of
spin-nondegenerate nodal quasiparticle excitations due to strong SOC
[22]. On the other hand, the T_(c)s of the La-doped series compounds are
quite close and they vary continuously, with both end compounds being
two-band superconductor candidates [21]. This indicates that the OPs of
PrPt₄Ge₁₂ and LaPt₄Ge₁₂ could be compatible. The observation of a
Hebel-Slichter coherence peak [23] below T_(c) in the ⁷³Ge NMR
relaxation rate in PrPt₄Ge₁₂[18] is evidence of weakly coupled
conventional pairing. The situation is clearly quite fluid.

In this paper, we argue that unconventional SC with a complex OP in
PrPt₄Ge₁₂ is favored by our doping study of Pr_(1 − x)La_(x)Pt₄Ge₁₂, x =
0.1, 0.2, 0.3, 0.5, 0.7, and 0.9, using measurements of specific heats,
superconducting critical fields determined by magnetization
measurements, and muon spin relaxation (μSR) in zero and longitudinal
[24] fields (ZF- and LF-μSR, respectively) [25, 26, 27]. Broken TRS in
superconductors often results in an inhomogeneous local magnetic field
**B**loc below T_(c), which can be readily detected by ZF-μSR
experiments. The width δB_(s) of this field distribution is roughly
Δ_(e)/γ_(μ), where Δ_(e) is the contribution of the field distribution
to the static Gaussian muon spin relaxation rate Δ and γ_(μ)/2π = 135.53
MHz/T is the muon gyromagnetic ratio [3, 11]. We find broken TRS in all
samples, with a continuous decrease of δB_(s) with increasing La doping.
LaPt₄Ge₁₂ is a conventional superconductor [21, 28]. Intriguingly, T_(m)
is clearly lower than T_(c) for x ≲ 0.5, and T_(c) − T_(m) is
significant in Pr-rich alloys (∼1 K in PrPt₄Ge₁₂). The temperature
dependence of the lower critical field H_(c1)(T) shows an anomaly at a
temperature T_(q) ∼ T_(m) in PrPt₄Ge₁₂: H_(c1) ∝ T² both above and below
T_(q), but with an increased coefficient below this temperature. The
upper critical field H_(c2)(T) of Pr_(1 − x)La_(x)Pt₄Ge₁₂, x = 0, 0.1,
0.3, and 0.7, is well described by a two-band SC model. We find evidence
for point gap nodes in Pr_(1 − x)La_(x)Pt₄Ge₁₂ from specific heat data,
but no second SC jump in the specific heat at ∼T_(m) in any of the
measured alloys. Our results indicate a multicomponent SC OP in
PrPt₄Ge₁₂, which results in intrinsic multiple SC phases.

## II Sample characterization and experimental methods

### Sample preparation

Synthesis procedures for our polycrystalline Pr_(1 − x)La_(x)Pt₄Ge₁₂
samples (x = 0, 0.1, 0.3, 0.5, 0.7, 0.8 and 0.9) were similar to those
described in Refs. [15, 29]. The body-centered-cubic structure (point
group T_(h), space group $Im\bar{3}$) was confirmed by Rietveld
refinements of powder x-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns. The observed
isostructural linear expansion of lattice constant a with La
concentration x (Fig. 1) is consistent with Vegard’s law. No obvious
Pr/La occupation defect is found.

### Specific heat

Measurements of the specific heat C_(p) of the samples were performed
using a standard thermal relaxation technique in a commercial PPMS
EverCool-II device (Quantum Design). Measurements on the x = 0.3 and 0.7
samples were also carried out in a dilution refrigerator. The sample
surfaces were polished flat to make good thermal contact. The
Debye-Sommerfeld approximation
$C_{p}=C_{e}+C_{\rm ph}=\gamma_{e}T+\beta_{\rm ph}T^{3}$ was fit to the
normal-state specific heat, measured in a magnetic field of 3 T over the
temperature range 2-10 K. The Debye temperature was obtained from the
relation $\theta_{D}=(12\pi^{4}N_{\rm a}nk_{B}/5\beta_{\rm ph})^{1/3}$,
where $N_{\rm a}$ is Avogadro’s number, n is the number of atoms per
formula unit, and k_(B) is the Boltzmann constant.

For Pr_(0.7)La_(0.3)Pt₄Ge₁₂, an upturn in the temperature dependence of
C_(p) below ∼0.5 K was observed, due to a Schottky contribution
[30]$C_{\rm Sch}\propto T^{-2}$ from quadrupole-split ¹⁴Pr nuclei (data
not shown). The fit gives $C_{\rm Sch}(T)/\gamma_{e}=0.0015(3)\ T^{-2}$
K, which was subtracted to obtain C_(e) of Pr_(0.7)La_(0.3)Pt₄Ge₁₂. A
Schottky anomaly was also reported in the parent compound PrPt₄Ge₁₂[16],
but is not observed in Pr_(0.3)La_(0.7)Pt₄Ge₁₂ down to 0.1 K. It is
possible that there is Schottky contribution in the low-temperature
C_(p), but it is small due to diluted ¹⁴¹Pr nuclei and thus hard to fit
and be subtracted from C_(p).

### Magnetic susceptibility

Susceptibility measurements were carried out using a commercial
vibrating sample magnetometer (Quantum Design) down to 2 K. Upper
critical fields H_(c2) were taken as the onset of the superconducting
magnetization M_(s)(H, T) in field-cooled experiments. Lower critical
fields H_(c1) were determined from the field dependence of M_(s)(H, T)
measured after cooling in "zero" field (less than ∼0.3 mT). H_(c1) was
defined typically as the field value where the magnetization deviates
from the field shielding initial slope. Figure 2 shows the determination
of H_(c1) at several representative temperatures. Results are discussed
in Sec. III.2.

### μSr

In time-differential μSR [25, 26, 27], spin-polarized muons are
implanted into the sample and decay via the weak interaction:
μ^(±) → e^(±) + ν̄_(μ)(ν_(μ)) + ν_(e)(ν̄_(e)). The decay positron
(electron) count rate asymmetry A_(μ)(t) in a given direction is
proportional to the muon ensemble spin polarization P_(μ)(t) in that
direction, and yields information on static and dynamic local fields at
the muon sites. Positive muons (μ⁺), which stop at interstitial sites in
solids, are generally used because they sample local magnetism better
than negative muons, which are tightly bound to nuclei.

μSR experiments were carried out on samples with x = 0.3, 0.5, 0.7, 0.8,
and 0.9 using the MUSR spectrometer at the ISIS Neutron and Muon
Facility, Rutherford Appleton

Figure 1: Powder x-ray diffraction results for Pr_(1 − x)La_(x)Pt₄Ge₁₂
(x = 0, 0.1, 0.3, 0.5, 0.7, 0.8, and 0.9). (a) X-ray diffraction pattern
for the [h k l] = [2 0] peak. A gradual shift of 269 indicates a
continuous change in the lattice parameter of Pr_(1 − x)La_(x)Pt₄Ge₁₂.
(b) Lattice constant of Pr_(1 − x)La_(x)Pt₄Ge₁₂ calculated from XRD
patterns, Vegard’s law is obeyed. Dashed lines are guide to the eye.

Laboratory, Chilton, United Kingdom, over the temperature range 0.3-12
K. The ambient magnetic field was actively compensated to better than 1
μT. The ZF-μSR data for the parent compound PrPt₄Ge₁₂ discussed in this
paper are from Ref. [20].

The observed ZF and LF asymmetry time spectra A_(μ)(t) = a₀P_(μ)(t),
where a₀ is the initial asymmetry, are well described by the
exponentially damped Gaussian Kubo-Toyabe polarization function [31]
plus a background signal from the silver sample holder with a weighing
factor f_(μ)1.

Footnote 1: Data from Ref. [15].

$$P_{\mu}(t)=f_{\mu}e^{-\lambda t}G_{F}^{\rm{KT}}(\Delta,t)+(1-f_{\mu})P_{\rm{Ag}},$$
(1)

where F= ZF or LF, Δ/γ_(μ) is the rms width of a Gaussian distribution
of static local fields, and the damping rate λ is often interpreted as a
dynamic relaxation rate due to thermal fluctuations of the muon local
field [32]. Here

$$G_{\rm{ZF}}^{\rm{KT}}(\Delta,t)=\frac{1}{3}+\frac{2}{3}(1-\Delta^{2}t^{2})\exp \big{(}-\frac{1}{2}\Delta^{2}t^{2}\big{)}$$
(2)

and

$$G_{\rm{LF}}^{\rm{KT}}(\Delta_{\rm{LF}},t) = 1-\frac{2\Delta_{\rm{LF}}^{2}}{\omega_{L}^{2}}\big{[}1-\exp\big{(} -\frac{1}{2}\Delta_{\rm{LF}}^{2}t^{2}\big{)}\cos(\omega_{L}t)\big{]}$$
$$+\frac{2\Delta_{\rm{LF}}^{4}}{\omega_{L}^{3}}\int_{0}^{t}\exp \big{(}-\frac{1}{2}\Delta_{\rm{LF}}^{2}t^{2}\big{)}\sin(\omega_{L}\tau)\,d\tau,$$

where ω_(L) = γ_(μ)H_(L) is the muon Zeeman frequency in the
longitudinal field H_(L). Equations (1)-(3) have previously been used to
analyze data from PrOs₄Sb₁₂ and PrPt₄Ge₁₂ and their alloys [11, 17, 20,
33].

The last term $P_{\rm{Ag}}=e^{-\lambda_{\rm{Ag}}t}$ in Eq. (1) is due to
muons that miss the sample and stop in the silver sample holder.
Measured silver relaxation rates $\lambda_{\rm{Ag}}$ are sample
dependent but very small (∼0.1-10 ms⁻¹), with weak temperature and
initial muon energy dependencies [34, 35]. This background signal is
often considered as nonrelaxing ($P_{\rm{Ag}}\sim 1$) when sample
relaxation is much larger. We here apply $P_{\rm{Ag}}=1$. Its fraction
(1 − f_(μ)) is well determined using low-temperature μSR asymmetry
spectra, where the silver signal dominates the late-time data. Using a
nonzero silver relaxation rate (10 ms⁻¹) does not change the fit results
appreciably.

## III Results

The lattice constant a, superconducting transition temperatures
T_(c)^(C_(ρ)) from the specific heat, Sommerfeld coefficients γ_(e),
Debye temperatures θ_(D), and the relative specific heat discontinuity
ΔC_(ρ)/γ_(e)T_(c) at T_(c) are summarized in Table 1, including data for
the two end compounds (x = 0 and 1) from Refs. [15, 16]. The quantity b
is the coefficient in Eq. (8) of Sec. III.3.1, where μSR relaxation data
are analyzed assuming the contribution Δ_(e)(T) to the static relaxation
rate due to broken TRS exhibits a BCS gaplike temperature dependence.

### Specific heat

The temperature dependencies of the electronic specific heat C_(e)(T)
for Pr_(1 − x)La_(x)Pt₄Ge₁₂, x = 0.1, 0.3, 0.5, 0.7, 0.8

${}^{\rm a}$As mentioned in main text, base T is about 0.02T_(c).

Table 2: Fit quality of the models applied to the T dependence of
C_(c)/γ_(s)T.

However, it should be noted that results on single-crystalline PrPt₄Ge₁₂
gives the mean-free path $l_{\rm mfp}=103$ nm using γ_(e) from specific
heat and ρ from resistivity measurements [19]. This is much larger than
the coherence length ξ(0), and suggests that PrPt₄Ge₁₂ is in the local
and clean limit [19]. It is therefore evidence that the linearity of
H_(c2)(T) is not of dirty-limit two-band origin. We conclude that more
work is required to understand this situation. But still, the most
important indication of H_(c2)(T) is that Pr_(1 − x)La_(x)Pt₄Ge₁₂ are
multiband superconductors. We further find that the empirical
anisotropic two-band model [49] can well describe H_(c2)(T):

$$H_{c2}(T)/H_{c2}(0)=\frac{1-(T/T_{c})^{2}}{1+(T/T_{c})^{2}}.$$
(6)

Fit parameters μ₀H_(c2)(0) = 1.75(1) T, 1.87(3) T, 1.80(3) T, and
1.73(3) T are derived for x = 0, 0.1, 0.3, and 0.7, respectively.

### Muon spin relaxation

#### 1.2.1 Zero-field μSr

Figure 6 shows representative μSR asymmetry spectra measured in ZF for
Pr_(1 − x)La_(x)Pt₄Ge₁₂, x = 0.3 and 0.7, above and below T_(c). A
nonrelaxing background signal originating from muons that miss the
sample and stop in the silver sample holder has been subtracted from the
data. As in PrPt₄Ge₁₂[17, 20], no early-time oscillations or fast
relaxation is observed, indicating the absence of strong static
magnetism (with or without long-range order). The small additional
relaxation below T_(c) indicates the emergence of a distribution of weak
spontaneous local fields [31].

Figure 7 gives the temperature dependence of the Gaussian relaxation
rate Δ in Pr_(1 − x)La_(x)Pt₄Ge₁₂, x = 0, 0.3, 0.5, 0.7, 0.8, and 0.9,
obtained from fits of Eqs. (1) and (2) to the data. In the normal state,
Δ is temperature independent, as expected for muon depolarization by
dipolar fields from quasistatic nuclear moments [31]. The enhancement of
Δ(T) with decreasing temperature below T_(c) is due to the onset of
static local fields, and is strong evidence for broken TRS [1, 50]. With
increasing La content the enhancement decreases, and disappears at x = 1
where TRS is fully restored [17]. Our results for x = 0 agree with those
of Ref. [17].

This increase is of electronic origin, so the electronic and random
nuclear contributions (Δ_(e) and Δ_(n), respectively) are uncorrelated
and add in quadrature [11]:

Δ(T) = [Δ_(n)² + Δ_(e)²(T)]^(1/2).
(7)

The curves in Fig. 7 are fits of Eq. (7) to the data using the
approximate empirical expression [51],

$$\Delta_{e}(T)=\Delta_{e}(0)\tanh\left(b\sqrt{\frac{T_{m}}{T}-1}\right)\quad(T \,<T_{m}),$$
(8)

assuming that Δ_(e) has the temperature dependence of a BCS-like OP but
the transition temperature is T_(m) rather than T_(c). In
Pr_(1 − x)La_(x)Pt₄Ge₁₂, the coefficient b (Table 1) is somewhat smaller
than the isotropic BCS value of 1.74 in the weak coupling limit.

The dip followed by an increase in Δ(T) below T_(c) (Fig. 7) was also
noted in Ref. [17], and its reproducibility suggests that it is not an
instrumental effect. Screening of magnetic impurity dipolar fields was
proposed as its origin [17]. Later work [20] indicated that this
mechanism is too weak to produce the effect, however, and its origin is
not understood.

Figure 8(a) gives the T-x phase diagram for the Pr_(1 − x)La_(x)Pt₄Ge₁₂
alloy system. Intriguingly, T_(m) < T_(c) for x ≲ 0.5, as previously
reported in PrPt₄Ge₁₂[17] where it is particularly obvious. The
zero-temperature width Δ_(e)(0)/γ_(μ) of the broken-TRS field
distribution [52] is shown in Fig. 8(b). It is interesting to note that
Δ_(e)(0)/γ_(μ) and the pointlike node gap fraction from specific heat
results [Fig. 8(b)] have the same x dependence, which is highly
nonlinear compared to that in the Pr(Os_(1 − x)Ru_(x))₄Sb₁₂,
Pr_(1 − x)La_(x)Os₄Sb₁₂, or Pr_(1 − x)Ce_(x)Pt₄Ge₁₂ alloy systems [20,
33]. We thus speculate that the origin of the

Figure 6: Representative muon asymmetry spectra A_(n)(t) for
Pr_(1 − x)La_(x)Pt₄Ge₁₂, x = 0.3 and 0.7, measured above and below T_(c)
(squares and circles, respectively). A background signal has been
subtracted from the data. Solid curves: Fits using the exponentially
damped Kubo-Toyabe function [Eqs. (1) and (2)].

Figure 7: (a)–(f): Temperature dependence of the ZF KT static Gaussian
relaxation rate Δ in Pr_(1 − x)La_(x)Pt₄Ge₁₂, x = 0, 0.3, 0.5, 0.7, 0.8,
and 0.9 samples, respectively. Curves: Fits of Eqs. (7) and (8) assuming
a BCS-like temperature dependence. Arrows: T_(c) from specific heat,
T_(m) from onset of broken TRS.

broken TRS in Pr_(1 − x)La_(x)Pt₄Ge₁₂ is strongly correlated with the
anisotropic gap structure. Noting that T_(m) < T_(c) for x ≲ 0.5, we
also speculate that interaction between neighboring Pr³⁺ ions
contributes to the difference between T_(m) and T_(c).

Figure 9 shows the ZF exponential damping rate λ(T) in
Pr_(1 − x)La_(x)Pt₄Ge₁₂, x = 0, 0.3, 0.5, 0.7, 0.8, and 0.9. In
PrPt₄Ge₁₂ and Pr-rich alloys, there is a distinct maximum in λ(T) below
T_(c), followed by a decrease to a nonzero value as T → 0. In the normal
state above T_(c), λ(T) increases with increasing temperature. The
temperature-dependent features become smaller with increasing x, and for
x = 0.7 the rate is essentially temperature independent. For x = 0.8,
λ(T) increases with decreasing temperature below ∼5 K  ≈ 0.6T_(c), and
for x = 0.9 there are not enough normal-state data to determine a
temperature dependence. The La concentration dependence of the
zero-field λ(T) in Pr_(1 − x)La_(x)Pt₄Ge₁₂ (Fig. 9) is similar to that
observed in Pr_(1 − x)Ce_(x)Pt₄Ge₁₂, which is discussed in some detail
by Zhang _et al._[20].

The maximum in λ(T) is accompanied by a dip in Δ(T) at ∼T_(c) (Fig. 7).
The fit quality, denoted by χ², is good for all the fits. This might be
an effect of statistical correlation between the two parameters, but the
dip in Δ is still present when λ(T) is fixed in (poorer-quality) fits of
Eqs. (1) and (2) to P_(μ)(t).

Mechanisms for λ(T) are discussed further in Sec. III.3.3.

#### iii.3.2 Longitudinal-field μSR

In ZF, the dynamic and static field contributions to the muon spin
relaxation rate are hard to disentangle experimentally. The usual
procedure for doping this is measurement of A_(μ)(t) in a longitudinal
field ${\bf H}_{L}$ parallel to the initial muon spin polarization
${\bf P}_{\mu}(0)$. For H_(L) much greater than static local fields at
muon sites (ω_(L) ≫ Δ), the resultant static field is nearly parallel to
${\bf P}_{\mu}(0)$, so there is little static muon relaxation
(precession and dephasing). Then ${\bf P}_{\mu}(t)$ is said to be
"decoupled" from the static local fields, and any remaining relaxation
for high H_(L) is dynamic in origin, due to thermal fluctuation of the
local fields.

A field dependence of the dynamic relaxation rate is also expected, due
to the proportionality of λ to the fluctuation noise power at ω_(L); in
general, this is reduced at high frequencies. If the fluctuations are
characterized by a correlation time τ_(c), λ(H_(L)) is given by the
Redfield equation [53],

$$\lambda_{\rm LF}(H_{L})=\frac{\delta\omega_{\rm rms}^{2}\tau_{c}}{1+(\omega_{L }\tau_{c})^{2}},$$
(9)

in the motionally narrowed limit $\delta\omega_{\rm rms}\tau_{c}\ll 1$,
where
$\delta\omega_{\rm rms}=\gamma_{\mu}\langle\delta B_{\rm loc}^{2}(t)\rangle^{1/2}$
is the rms fluctuating local field amplitude in frequency units. Thus
$\lambda_{\rm LF}(H_{L})$ decreases with increasing H_(L) for
ω_(L)τ_(c) ≳ 1. This field dependence can be distinguished from
decoupling if 1/τ_(c) is sufficiently larger than the static rate Δ.

LFμSR experiments were carried out in the normal state (T = 10 K) of
Pr_(0.3)La_(0.7)Pt₄Ge₁₂. Muon spin-polarization time spectra P_(μ)(t),
obtained from the asymmetry A_(μ)(t) by subtracting the signal from the
cold finger and normalizing, are shown in Fig. 10. The field dependence
of P_(μ)(t) shows characteristics of both decoupling and field-dependent
dynamic relaxation: the small-amplitude oscillation with frequency ω_(L)
at intermediate fields is a feature of decoupling [31], but decoupling
alone would not account for the nonzero field dependence of the overall
relaxation rate at intermediate fields.

These data have been fit using Eqs. (1) and (3). The field dependence of
$\lambda_{\rm LF}$ for Pr_(0.3)La_(0.7)Pt₄Ge₁₂ at 10 K is shown in Fig.
11. For μ₀H_(L) ≥ 0.5 mT, a good fit to Eq. (9) is obtained, which
yields τ_(c) = 1.0(1) μs and $\delta B_{\rm rms}=0.29(1)$ mT. The
motional-narrowing criterion $\delta\omega_{\rm rms}\tau_{c}\ll 1$ is
more or less satisfied [$\delta\omega_{\rm rms}\tau_{c}=0.25(3)$], but
the local field fluctuations

Figure 8: (a) Temperature-La concentration x phase diagram for
Pr_(1 − x)La_(x)Pt₄Ge₁₂. Squares: T_(c) from specific heat data.
Circles: Onset temperature T_(m) of broken TRS. (b) Circles: x
dependence of local spontaneous magnetic field distribution width
Δ_(c)(0)/γ_(μ). Triangles: Pointlike node gap fraction 1 − f from
specific-heat results [Eq. (4)]. Curves are guides to the eye.

Figure 9: (a)–(f): Temperature dependence of the zero-field exponential
damping rate λ in Pr_(1 − x)La_(x)Pt₄Ge₁₂, x = 0, 0.3, 0.5, 0.7, 0.8,
and 0.9.

are close to "adiabatic." The same behavior is observed in
PrOs₄Sb₁₂[11], with similar parameter values.

Values of the static rate Δ and the ZF damping rate $\lambda_{\rm ZF}$
are also shown in Fig. 11. The relation Δτ_(c) ≪ 1, necessary to
separate decoupling and dynamic-rate field dependencies, is also more or
less satisfied [Δτ_(c) = 0.14(1)]. The fit value
$\lambda_{\rm LF}(H_{L}\!\to\!0)=0.062(2)\,\mu$s⁻¹ is less than
$\lambda_{\rm ZF}$, suggesting a static contribution to the latter. This
would indicate a so-called Voigtian static field distribution, i.e., the
convolution of Gaussian and Lorentzian distributions [54]. An early
report of a Voigtian distribution in PrPt₄Ge₁₂[17] was not reproduced in
later studies [20].

#### iii.2.3 Mechanism for dynamic muon relaxation?

There are two candidate sources of fluctuating μ⁺ local fields in
Pr_(1 − x)La_(x)Pt₄Ge₁₂; Pr³⁺4f fluctuations and nuclear magnetism.
There is no Pr³⁺ local moment, since the Pr³⁺ non-Kramers crystal-field
ground state is nonmagnetic. Although 4f/conduction-band mixing is
likely in these alloys, the μ⁺ contact interaction with conduction or 4f
electrons is normally weak and relaxation rates are too slow to be
observed in the μSR time window. This can be seen from an estimation of
the conduction-electron hyperfine coupling constant $\omega_{\rm hf}$
(or hyperfine field $H_{\rm hf}=\omega_{\rm hf}/\gamma_{\mu}$) needed to
yield the observed μ⁺ relaxation rate, since
$\lambda\approx\omega_{\rm hf}^{2}\tau_{c}$, and for conduction-electron
relaxation τ_(c) is at the most of the order of
$\hbar/k_{B}T_{\rm F}\sim 10^{-13}\,$s, where $T_{\rm F}\sim 100\,$K is
the "Fermi temperature" from the specific heat of PrPt₄Ge₁₂[29] and
associated with a putative 4f band. With the observed λ ∼ 0.1 μs⁻¹, this
yields $\mu_{0}H_{\rm hf}\sim 1\,$T, which is is an order of magnitude
larger than typical muon/conduction-electron or muon/4f hyperfine fields
in metals [55].

In Pr-rich alloys, ¹⁴¹Pr nuclei are dominant. In PrPt₄Ge₁₂, as in
Pr_(1 − x)Ce_(x)Pt₄Ge₁₂[20], the μ⁺ λ(T) resembles the ⁷³Ge NMR
relaxation rate [18], and is similarly reminiscent of Hebel-Slichter
relaxation [23] in fully gapped superconductors. This suggests ¹⁴¹Pr
spin fluctuations with correlation times τ_(c) slower than the
motionally narrowed limit, in which case λ ∼ 1/τ_(c).

The Hebel-Slichter rate vanishes exponentially as T → 0, whereas in
PrPt₄Ge₁₂ and its alloys the muon spin relaxation remains nonzero at low
temperatures. We note, however, that mechanisms for fluctuating nuclear
magnetism are of two kinds: spin-lattice (T₁) relaxation, due to
interactions with the electronic environment, and spin-spin (T₂)
relaxation, due to interactions between nuclei [56]. The latter are not
expected to be temperature dependent at ordinary temperatures.
Contributions of both mechanisms to nuclear spin fluctuations would be
consistent with the observed behavior.

There is a problem with this scenario in Pr-rich alloys, however: The
¹⁴¹Pr dipolar fields should be fluctuating fully (i.e., have no static
component), in which case the "dynamic" K-T relaxation function [31] is
appropriate. But as in Pr_(1 − x)Ce_(x)Pt₄Ge₁₂[20], fits to this
function are not as good as fits using Eqs. (1) and (2). This is perhaps
less of a difficulty for La-rich alloys, where ¹³⁹La nuclear spin
fluctuations are expected to be much slower and could account for the
static relaxation. The reduction with increasing x of the temperature
dependence of λ (which is nearly T independent in
Pr_(0.3)La_(0.7)Pt₄Ge₁₂) is consistent with this possibility, but the
increased λ(T) below T_(c) for x = 0.8 is not understood. The situation
remains unclear, and more work needs to be done.

## IV Discussion

### Multiband superconductivity

We have shown that in Pr_(1 − x)La_(x)Pt₄Ge₁₂, upper critical fields
H_(c2)(T) are consistent with two SC gaps. The two-band α model is
capable of describing the specific-heat results. We found that the
larger-gap band has point nodes and the smaller-gap band is weakly
coupled. The small fraction f of the BCS gap for x = 0.3 and 0.7
suggests that SC of Pr_(1 − x)La_(x)Pt₄Ge₁₂ is dominated by the larger
band with point nodes. Values of ΔC_(p)/γ_(e)T_(c) for
Pr_(1 − x)La_(x)Pt₄Ge₁₂ are all slightly larger than the BCS value of
1.43, indicating that PrPt₄Ge₁₂ is an unconventional superconductor.
Pr-based filled skutterudites, including PrOs₄Sb₁₂[57, 58, 59],
PrRu₄As₁₂

Figure 11: Field dependence of the relaxation rate $\lambda_{\rm LF}$ in
Pr_(0.3)La_(0.7)Pt₄Ge₁₂, T = 10 K. Curve: Fit of Eq. (9) to the data for
μ₀H_(L) ≥ 0.5 mT.

Figure 10: Longitudinal field $H_{\rm L}$ dependence of μ⁺ polarization
time spectra from Pr_(0.3)La_(0.7)Pt₄Ge₁₂, T = 10 K  > T_(c). Curves:
Fits of Eqs. (1) and (3) to the spectra.

[60], and PrRu₄Sb₁₂[59, 61], might all be multiband superconductors.

Transverse field μSR results [16] concluded that in polycrystalline
PrPt₄Ge₁₂ the gap functions |Δ₀sinθ| and Δ₀(1-sin⁴θcos⁴θ), both with
point nodes, can best describe the gap symmetry. These are also
candidate gap functions for PrOs₄Sb₁₂[62, 63]. However, a study of
single-crystalline PrPt₄Ge₁₂[19] reports two isotropic BCS gaps. While
our H_(c2)(T) and C_(e)(T) results suggest multiband SC, point gap nodes
in one band are favored by C_(e)(T) results, corresponding well to the
μSR study [16]. Still, we cannot rule out the possibility of multiple
isotropic bands in Pr_(1 − x)La_(x)Pt₄Ge₁₂, since the fit quality is
only delicately worse.

The discrepancy in C_(e)(T) between polycrystalline and
single-crystalline PrPt₄Ge₁₂ was previously attributed to the inaccurate
subtraction of the nuclear Schottky anomaly at low temperature [19].
Although accurate subtraction is difficult, this only affects the
analysis of C_(e)(T) at low temperatures, and fits over the entire
temperature range <T_(c) yield evidence for point gap nodes.
Furthermore, the Schottky anomaly is reduced and not observed in x> 0.5
alloys, whereas C_(e)(T)∝T^(3.1) is still found in
Pr_(0.3)La_(0.7)Pt₄Ge₁₂. High-quality single crystalline
Pr_(1 − x)La_(x)Pt₄Ge₁₂ samples will be required to clarify the origin
of this discrepancy.

It should be mentioned that we did not observe any obvious specific heat
jump around T_(m) in both x = 0 and x = 0.3 with a C_(e)(T) measurement
T step ΔT = 0.025 K. Moreover, C_(e)(T) anomaly at T_(m) was not
reported in several previous works, including the single crystal study
by Zhang _et al_. [19]. While our ZF-μSR results provide strong
indication of T_(m)<T_(c) in PrPt₄Ge₁₂(see also discussion Sec. IV.2),
the absence of multiple C_(e)(T) jumps put constraints on taking T_(m)
as a second SC transition temperature. If there are multiple components
in the SC OP of PrPt₄Ge₁₂, it is possible that one of the components
that breaks TRS is not sufficient to generate an obvious C_(e)
discontinuity at T_(m). Further study on the nature of TRSB below T_(m)
is desired.

### Broken time-reversal symmetry

In general, the violation of TRS naturally occurs in bulk
superconductors with nonunitary states [1, 64]. Broken TRS can emerge at
temperatures differing from T_(c), such as in the E_(2n) odd-parity
triplet state candidate UPt₃[9]. The appealing claim of spin-triplet
chiral p wave states in PrPt₄Ge₁₂ was first anticipated from superfluid
density results [16]. To date, other experimental confirmations of other
implications are still lacking.

A singlet pairing state cannot be ruled out, due to the continuous
variation of δB_(s)(x) as well as the smooth and small change of
T_(c)(x) in Pr_(1 − x)La_(x)Pt₄Ge₁₂. These results suggest a continuous
variation of OP symmetry between LaPt₄Ge₁₂ and PrPt₄Ge₁₂[17, 21], where
LaPt₄Ge₁₂ is characterized by a spin-singlet state.

Broken TRS tends to be stabilized by the forming of a subdominant gap
[64]. Thus, if a spin-singlet state is present in PrPt₄Ge₁₂, a
straightforward explanation of broken TRS, point gap nodes together with
a BCS gap, and T_(m) < T_(c) might be chirality in a superconducting
state with an s-wave component [22], e.g., the d + is state [64]. Then
supercurrents form around non-magnetic imperfections, resulting in local
fields and the enhancement of Δ(T) below T_(m)[17, 65]. A subdominant
s-wave component in the SC OP of PrPt₄Ge₁₂ results in the
two-consecutive SC phase feature [64, 66].

It was observed [40] that in PrPt₄Ge₁₂ the critical current density
I_(c) decreases exponentially with increasing applied field and
decreases linearly with increasing temperature. The absence of an
anomaly in I_(c)(H) around T_(m) indicates no macroscopic separation of
multiple SC phases [39], but is not evidence against the claim of
multiple components in the SC OP.

The model of Koga, Matsumoto, and Shiba (KMS) [67], which proposed
several T_(h) symmetric irreducible representations for isostructural
PrOs₄Sb₁₂, suggests that in this compound SC with broken TRS is driven
by crystal-field excitonic Cooper-pairing [33]. With increasing La
concentration, the weakened Pr-Pr intersite interaction results in a
crossover between SC ground states with broken and preserved TRS due to
less excitonic dispersion, resulting in a monotonic decrease in
δB_(s)(x) in Pr_(1 − x)La_(x)Os₄Sb₁₂[33].

To some extent, Pr_(1 − x)La_(x)Pt₄Ge₁₂ resembles
Pr_(1 − x)La_(x)Os₄Sb₁₂, since both end compounds are superconductors
and they both exhibit a continuous decrease in δB_(s) on increasing x.
Considering the small variation of T_(c) and the smooth evolution of
δB_(s)(x) in Pr_(1 − x)La_(x)Pt₄Ge₁₂, the KMS model might be applicable
to describe the SC OP in this alloy series. Sergienko and Curne [68]
also proposed a singlet-state model for PrOs₄Sb₁₂, based on the
assumptions of point gap nodes as well as equivalent OP between the TRS
breaking SC phase and the TRS-preserved one. These assumptions are
compatible with our results in PrPt₄Ge₁₂. In this case, the absence of
multiple SC specific heat jumps in tetrahedral Pr_(1 − x)La_(x)Pt₄Ge₁₂
is a reflection of orbital components in the OP, and the broken TRS
originates from a complex orbitally degenerate OP in the spin-singlet
state within the strong SOC limit [17, 68].

It should be mentioned that orbital degrees of freedom further
complicate the origin of the SC excitation gap. It was found that
even-parity superconductors with broken TRS have multiband OP [1, 69].
These superconductors are characteristic of two-dimensional Fermi
surfaces, with nodes in the gap replaced by Bogoliubov quasiparticles.
PrPt₄Ge₁₂ could be such a candidate material, considering the broken TRS
state with multiband feature. Moreover, it was recently proposed that
three-dimensional chiral superconductors with strong SOC and odd-parity
states can be the host of gapless Majorana fermions [22]. PrOs₄Sb₁₂ was
proposed as a candidate for such a system, due to the existence of point
gap nodes, broken TRS, and a possible spin-triplet state. Isostructural
PrPt₄Ge₁₂ was also proposed to be a candidate material. The two-band
feature is not evidence against a nonunitary state [22]. We thus note
here that the origin of the multiband feature with nodal gap structure
and broken TRS in PrPt₄Ge₁₂ remains an unsolved problem.

## V Concluding remarks

We report specific heat, critical field, ZF-, and LF-μSR studies of
well-characterized polycrystalline superconducting
Pr_(1 − x)La_(x)Pt₄Ge₁₂, to investigate the SC OP of the parent compound
PrPt₄Ge₁₂. There is no obvious SC pair breaking effect in
Pr_(1 − x)La_(x)Pt₄Ge₁₂, since T_(c)(x) varies only slightly. We find
that Pr_(1 − x)La_(x)Pt₄Ge₁₂ alloys exhibit broken TRS, with a signature
local field distribution width δB_(s) below T_(c) that continuously
decreases with increasing x, disappearing for x ∼ 1. This behavior is a
reflection of a crossover between broken and preserved TRS SC across the
alloy series, similar to Pr_(1 − x)La_(x)Pt₄Ge₁₂. The most intriguing
feature is that the onset temperatures T_(m) for broken TRS in
Pr_(1 − x)La_(x)Pt₄Ge₁₂ (x ≲ 0.5) are below T_(c), as is most obvious in
PrPt₄Ge₁₂. Furthermore, H_(c1)(T) exhibits a second quadratic
temperature region below T_(q) ≈ T_(m) ∼ 6 K. These results are likely
due to the intrinsic two-consecutive-SC-phase nature of PrPt₄Ge₁₂.
Critical fields H_(c2)(T) and the specific heat C_(e)(T) in
Pr_(1 − x)La_(x)Pt₄Ge₁₂ can be well described by a two-band model, with
C_(e)(T) suggesting a dominant point-node gap structure in the pairing
symmetry. However, there are no obvious multiple SC specific-heat jumps
at T_(m). Based on these results, we conclude that PrPt₄Ge₁₂ is likely
to be a multiband superconductor characterized by a complex
multicomponent SC OP with orbitally degenerate representations. Our
results motivate further studies of SC excitation gap symmetry in
PrPt₄Ge₁₂ and isostructural compounds, including PrOs₄Sb₁₂.
Transverse-field μSR experiments in the vortex-lattice state, which
yield the superfluid density, will help to determine the gap symmetry
and are planned for the future. We conclude that Pr_(1 − x)La_(x)Pt₄Ge₁₂
is a unique candidate for further study of unconventional SC with
intrinsic multiple phases.

## Acknowledgments

We wish to thank M. B. Maple, G. M. Zhang, O. O. Bernal, and P.-C. Ho
for fruitful discussions. We are grateful to the ISIS Cryogenics Group
for their valuable help during the μSR experiments. The research
performed in this study was supported by the National Key Research and
Development Program of China (No. 2017YFA0303104 and No.
2016YFA0300503), and the National Natural Science Foundation of China
under Grant No. 11774061. Research at UC Riverside (UCR) was supported
by the UCR Academic Senate.

## References

* Sigrist and Ueda (1991) M. Sigrist and K. Ueda, Rev. Mod. Phys.
**63**, 239 (1991). * Norman (2011) M. R. Norman, Science **332**, 196
(2011). * Luke et al. (1998) G. M. Luke, Y. Fudamoto, K. M. Kojima, M.
I. Larkin, J. Merrin, B. Nachumi, Y. J. Uemura, Y. Maeno, Z. Q. Mao, Y.
Mori, H. Nakamura, and M. Sigrist, Nature **394**, 558 (1998). * Hillier
et al. (2012) A. D. Hillier, J. Quintanilla, B. Mazidian, J. F. Annett,
and R. Cywinski, Phys. Rev. Lett. **109**, 097001 (2012). * Biswas et
al. (2013) P. K. Biswas, H. Luetkens, T. Neupert, T. Stirzner, C.
Baines, G. Pascua, A. P. Schnyder, M. H. Fischer, J. Goryo, M. R. Lees,
H. Maeter, F. Bruckner, H.-H. Klauss, M. Nicklas, P. J. Baker, A. D.
Hillier, M. Sigrist, A. Amato, and D. Johrendt, Phys. Rev. B **87**,
180503(R) (2013). * Singh et al. (2014) R. P. Singh, A. D. Hillier, B.
Mazidian, J. Quintanilla, J. F. Annett, D. M. Paul, G. Balakrishnan, and
M. R. Lees, Phys. Rev. Lett. **112**, 107002 (2014). * Mineev and
Samokhin (1999) V. P. Mineev and K. K. Samokhin, _Introduction to
Unconventional Superconductivity_ (Gordon and Breach Science Publishers,
Amsterdam, 1999). * Heffner et al. (1990) R. H. Heffner, J. L. Smith, J.
O. Willis, P. Birrer, C. Baines, F. N. Gygax, B. Hitti, E. Lippelt, H.
R. Ott, A. Schenck, E. A. Knetsch, J. A. Mydosh, and D. E. MacLaughlin,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **65**, 2816 (1990). * Schemm et al. (2014) E. R.
Schemm, W. J. Gannon, C. M. Wishne, W. P. Halperin, and A. Kapitulnik,
Science **345**, 190 (2014). * Maple et al. (2007) M. B. Maple, Z.
Henkie, W. M. Yuhasz, P.-C. Ho, T. Yanagisawa, T. A. Sayles, N. P.
Butch, J. R. Jeffries, and A. Pietrasko, J. Magn. Magn. Mater. **310**,
182 (2007). * Aoki et al. (2003) Y. Aoki, A. Tsuchiya, T. Kanayama, S.
R. Saha, H. Sugawara, H. Sato, W. Higemoto, A. Koda, K. Ohishi, K.
Nishiyama, and R. Kadono, Phys. Rev. Lett. **91**, 067003 (2003). *
Izawa et al. (2003) K. Izawa, Y. Nakajima, J. Goryo, Y. Matsuda, S.
Osaki, H. Sugawara, H. Sato, P. Thalmeier, and K. Maki, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**90**, 117001 (2003). * Levenson-Falk et al. (2018) E. M.
Levenson-Falk, E. R. Schemm, Y. Aoki, M. B. Maple, and A. Kapitulnik,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **120**, 187004 (2018). * Measson et al. (2006) M.-A.
Measson, D. Braithwaite, B. Salce, J. Flouquet, G. Lapertot, J. Pecaut,
G. Seyfarth, J.-P. Brison, H. Sugawara, and H. Sato, Physica B
(Amsterdam) **378-380**, 56 (2006). * Gumeniuk et al. (2008) R.
Gumeniuk, W. Schnelle, H. Rosner, M. Nicklas, A. Leithe-Jasper, and Y.
Grin, Phys. Rev. Lett. **100**, 017002 (2008). * Maisuradze et al.
(2009) A. Maisuradze, M. Nicklas, R. Gumeniuk, C. Baines, W. Schnelle,
H. Rosner, A. Leithe-Jasper, Y. Grin, and R. Khasanov, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**103**, 147002 (2009). * Maisuradze et al. (2010) A. Maisuradze, W.
Schnelle, R. Khasanov, R. Gumeniuk, M. Nicklas, H. Rosner, A.
Leithe-Jasper, Y. Grin, A. Amato, and P. Thalmeier, Phys. Rev. B **82**,
024524 (2010). * Kanetake et al. (2010) F. Kanetake, H. Mukuda, Y.
Kitaoka, H. Sugawara, K. Magishi, K. M. Itoh, and E. E. Haller, Physica
C (Amsterdam) **470**, S703 (2010). * Zhang et al. (2013) J. L. Zhang,
Y. Chen, L. Jiao, R. Gumeniuk, M. Nicklas, Y. H. Chen, L. Yang, B. H.
Fu, W. Schnelle, H. Rosner, A. Leithe-Jasper, Y. Grin, F. Steglich, and
H. Q. Yuan, Phys. Rev. B **87**, 064502 (2013). * Zhang et al. (2015) J.
Zhang, D. E. MacLaughlin, A. D. Hillier, Z. F. Ding, K. Huang, M. B.
Maple, and L. Shu, Phys. Rev. B **91**, 104523 (2015). * Pfau et al.
(2016) H. Pfau, M. Nicklas, U. Stockert, R. Gumeniuk, W. Schnelle, A.
Leithe-Jasper, Y. Grin, and F. Steglich, Phys. Rev. B **94**, 054523
(2016). * Kozii et al. (2016) V. Kozii, J. W. F. Venderbos, and L. Fu,
Sci. Adv. **2**, e1601835 (2016). * Hebel and Slichter (1959) L. C.
Hebel and C. P. Slichter, Phys. Rev. **113**, 1504 (1959). * (24)
Parallel to the initial muon spin polarization. * Brewer (1994) J. H.
Brewer, in _Encyclopedia of Applied Physics_, Vol. 9, edited by G. L.
Trigg (VCH, New York, 1994), p. 23. * Blundell (1999) S. J. Blundell,
Contemp. Phys. **40**, 175 (1999).

* [27] A. Yaouanc and P. Dalmas de Reotier, _Muon Spin Rotation,
Relaxation, and Resonance: Applications to Condensed Matter_,
International Series of Monographs on Physics (Oxford University Press,
New York, 2011). * [28] J. L. Zhang, G. M. Pang, L. Jiao, M. Nicklas, Y.
Chen, Z. F. Weng, M. Smidman, W. Schnelle, A. Leithe-Jasper, A.
Maisuradze, C. Baines, R. Khasanov, A. Amato, F. Steglich, R. Gumeniuk,
and H. Q. Yuan, Phys. Rev. B **92**, 220503(R) (2015). * [29] K. Huang,
L. Shu, I. K. Lum, B. D. White, M. Janoschek, D. Yazici, J. J. Hamlin,
D. A. Zocco, P.-C. Ho, R. E. Baumbach, and M. B. Maple, Phys. Rev. B
**89**, 035145 (2014). * [30] Y. Aoki, T. Namiki, S. Ohsaki, S. R. Saha,
H. Sugawara, and H. Sato, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **71**, 2098 (2002). * [31]
R. S. Hayano, Y. J. Uemura, J. Imazato, N. Nishida, T. Yamazaki, and R.
Kubo, Phys. Rev. B **20**, 850 (1979). * [32] But not always; see Sec.
III C 2. * [33] L. Shu, W. Higemoto, Y. Aoki, A. D. Hillier, K. Ohishi,
K. Ishida, R. Kadono, A. Koda, O. O. Bernal, D. E. MacLaughlin, Y.
Tunashima, Y. Yonezawa, S. Sanada, D. Kikuchi, H. Sato, H. Sugawara, T.
U. Ito, and M. B. Maple, Phys. Rev. B **83**, 100504(R) (2011). * [34]
J. F. Bueno, D. J. Arseneau, R. Bayes, J. H. Brewer, W. Faszer, M. D.
Hasinoff, G. M. Marshall, E. L. Mathie, R. E. Mischke, G. D. Morris, K.
Olchanski, V. Selivanov, and R. Tacik, Phys. Rev. B **83**, 205121
(2011). * [35] J. Zhang, Z. Ding, C. Tan, K. Huang, O. O. Bernal, P.-C.
Ho, G. D. Morris, A. D. Hillier, P. K. Biswas, S. P. Cottrell, H. Xiang,
X. Yao, D. E. MacLaughlin, and L. Shu, Sci. Adv. **4**, eaao5235
(2018). * [36] V. Z. Kresin and V. P. Parkhomenko, Fiz. Tverd. Tela
(Leningrad) **16**, 3363 (1974) [Sov. Phys. Solid State **16**, 2180
(1975)]. * [37] F. Bouquet, Y. Wang, R. A. Fisher, D. G. Hinks, J. D.
Jorgensen, A. Junod, and N. E. Phillips, Europhys. Lett. **56**, 856
(2001). * [38] R. Fisher, G. Li, J. Lashley, F. Bouquet, N. Phillips, D.
Hinks, J. Jorgensen, and G. Crabtree, Physica C (Amsterdam) **385**, 180
(2003). * [39] D. Venkateshwarlu, S. Shammaukharao Samatham, M.
Gangrade, and V. Ganesan, J. Phys.: Conf. Ser. **534**, 012040 (2014). *
[40] L. S. S. Chandra, M. K. Chattopadhyay, and S. B. Roy, Philos. Mag.
**92**, 3866 (2012). * [41] This criterion is satisfied, since
ξ(0) = {Φ₀/2πH_(c2)(0)}^(1/2) = 13 nm, taking H_(c2)(0) = 1.75 T [from
our H_(c2)(T) analysis of the anisotropic two-band model] and Λ = 114(4)
nm from μSR [16]. * [42] M. Tinkham, _Introduction to Superconductivity_
(McGraw-Hill, New York, 1996). * [43] R. French, Cryogenics **8**, 301
(1968). * [44] T. Cichorek, A. C. Mota, F. Steglich, N. A. Frederick, W.
M. Yuhasz, and M. B. Maple, Phys. Rev. Lett. **94**, 107002 (2005). *
[45] D. E. MacLaughlin, A. D. Hillier, J. M. Mackie, L. Shu, Y. Aoki, D.
Kikuchi, H. Sato, Y. Tunashima, and H. Sugawara, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**105**, 019701 (2010). * [46] N. R. Werthamer, E. Helfand, and P. C.
Hohenberg, Phys. Rev. **147**, 295 (1966). * [47] A. Gurevich, Phys.
Rev. B **67**, 184515 (2003). * [48] C. Buzea and T. Yamashita,
Supercond. Sci. Technol. **14**, R115 (2001). * [49] A. Changjan and P.
Udomsamuthirun, Solid State Commun. **151**, 988 (2011). * [50] A. P.
Mackenzie and Y. Maeno, Rev. Mod. Phys. **75**, 657 (2003). * [51] F.
Gross, B. S. Chandrasekhar, D. Einzel, K. Andres, P. J. Hirschfeld, H.
R. Ott, J. Beuers, Z. Fisk, and J. L. Smith, Z. Phys. B **64**, 175
(1986). * [52] Note that this field is an effect of broken TRS and not
its cause; in a pure superconductor with orbital broken TRS the field
would be Meissner screened [1]. * [53] C. P. Slichter, _Principles of
Magnetic Resonance_, 3rd ed., Springer Series in Solid-State Sciences
(Springer, New York, 1996), Chap. 5. * [54] M. R. Crook and R. Cywinski,
J. Phys.: Condens. Matter **9**, 1149 (1997). * [55] A. Schenck, _Muon
Spin Rotation Spectroscopy: Principles and Applications in Solid State
Physics_ (A. Hilger, Bristol, Boston, 1985), Chap. 4. * [56] Ref. [53],
Chap. 3. * [57] L. Shu, D. E. MacLaughlin, W. P. Beyermann, R. H.
Heffner, G. D. Morris, O. O. Bernal, F. D. Callaghan, J. E. Sonier, W.
M. Yuhasz, N. A. Frederick, and M. B. Maple, Phys. Rev. B **79**, 174511
(2009). * [58] G. Seyfarth, J. P. Brison, M.-A. Measson, D. Braithwaite,
G. Lapertot, and J. Flouquet, Phys. Rev. Lett. **97**, 236403 (2006). *
[59] R. W. Hill, S. Li, M. B. Maple, and L. Taillefer, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**101**, 237005 (2008). * [60] T. Namiki, Y. Aoki, H. Sato, C. Sekine,
I. Shirotani, T. D. Matsuda, Y. Haga, and T. Yagi, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn.
**76**, 093704 (2007). * [61] N. Takeda and M. Ishikawa, J. Phys. Soc.
Jpn. **69**, 868 (2000). * [62] E. E. M. Chia, M. B. Salamon, H.
Sugawara, and H. Sato, Phys. Rev. Lett. **91**, 247003 (2003). * [63] K.
Maki, S. Haas, D. Parker, H. Won, K. Izawa, and Y. Matsuda, EPL **68**,
720 (2004). * [64] M. Sigrist, Physica C (Amsterdam) **341-348**, 695
(2000). * [65] C. H. Choi and P. Muzikar, Phys. Rev. B **39**, 9664
(1989). * [66] M. Sigrist, Physica B (Amsterdam) **280**, 154 (2000). *
[67] M. Koga, M. Matsumoto, and H. Shiba, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **75**,
014709 (2006). * [68] I. A. Sergienko and S. H. Curnoe, Phys. Rev. B
**70**, 144522 (2004). * [69] D. F. Agterberg, P. M. R. Brydon, and C.
Timm, Phys. Rev. Lett. **118**, 127001 (2017).
