**Comparison of the low-temperature specific heat of Fe- and Co-doped
Bi1.8Pb0.2Sr2Ca(Cu1-_x_M_x)2O8 (_M_ = Fe or Co):** **Anomolously
enhanced electronic contribution due to Fe doping**

M. K. Yu* and J. P. Franck

_Department of Physics, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada
T6G 2J1_

Received 11 September 1995

Specific-heat data of Fe-doped Bi1.8Pb0.2Sr2Ca(Cu1-_x_Fe)2O8 in the
range 2-20 K are presented for x = 1, 2, 4, 6, and 8

In a previous publication,1 we reported on the low-temperature specific
heat of Zn- and Co-doped bismuth-strontium-calcium-copper oxide
superconductors of nominal composition Bi2Sr2CaCu2O8 (BISCO). The main
result of this work was that Co substitution induces a large linear term
in the specific heat, in contrast to Zn substitution, which hardly
changes the low-temperature specific heat. From normal-state
susceptibility measurements, it was found that Co is a magnetic
substitution in BISCO, whereas Zn substitutes nonmagnetically. In the
present work, we report our results on the specific heat of Fe-doped
BISCO 2212. Fe also substitutes magnetically, and this investigation
should therefore be helpful in outlining the relationship between the
appearance of a low-temperature linear term in the specific heat of
cuprate superconductors and the substitution of magnetic cations. We
found again a linear term at low temperatures in Fe-doped BISCO, but
this term is much larger than in Co-substituted BISCO. The
low-temperature limiting value of g is at least four times that for Co
substitution and much larger than any estimated normal-state linear
term. In contrast to this, the normal-state properties of Co- and
Fe-substituted BISCO are quite similar. It is possible that
hybridization of the Fe wave function with the planar oxygen and copper
wave function produces a heavy-fermion-like enhancement of the
electronic specific heat, in contrast to the Co case. We will present in
this paper the results for Fe-doped BISCO and compare them with the
Co-doped BISCO results.

The measurements were conducted on samples of
Bi1.8Pb0.2Sr2Ca(Cu1-_x_Fe)2O8, for x = 1, 2, 4, 6, and 8

The superconducting transitions were observed in low fields (1 G) in a
superconducting quantum interference device magnetometer. We found that
the magnetic transitions have a broad onset and that the transition
width increases with increasing Fe concentration or decreasing
transition temperature. The transition temperatures given as part of
Table 3 are taken at the 5

Investigations of Zn, Fe, and Co doping in the 2212 structure were
published by Maeda _et al._2 They used a slightly different
stoichiometry, Bi2(Sr0.6Ca0.4)(Cu1-_x_M_x)O7, and found solution limits
of x = 1.5

Figure 1: The temperature T_(c) at 5 and 90

In Fig. 2 we show the results of our measurements of the normal-state
susceptibility as function of temperature for all Fe concentrations;
included are also results for an unsubstituted sample. It is obvious
that Fe substitution introduces both a Curie term C/T, as well as an
enhanced constant term χ₀. We fitted the results therefore to the form

$$\chi = \chi_{0} + \frac{C}{T},$$

the resulting values of χ₀ and C are given in Table 1. Similar results
are given in Table 2 for Co-substituted samples. We attribute the Curie
term C/T (absent in the unsubstituted case) to the magnetic moment of
the substituted cation, and interpret the constant term χ₀ as Pauli
susceptibility (after correction for diamagnetic core contributions.

The measurements of the normal-state susceptibility χ were confined to
the temperature range 70-250 K. The lower temperature is well above the
transition temperature T_(c) for all Fe concentrations. It is,
therefore, unlikely that fluctuation effects will affect these data. In
Ref. 18, it was found that the fluctuation range in Bi 2212 reaches to
about 10

The effective moment $p_{\rm eff}$, introduced both for Fe and Co
substitution was obtained from the measured Curie constant:

$$C = \frac{N(p_{\rm eff}\mu_{B})^{2}}{3k_{B}T},$$

where μ_(B) is the Bohr magneton and N is the molar concentration of Fe
or Co. The effective moments are given in Tables 1 and 2 and shown in
Fig. 3. It can be seen that $p_{\rm eff}$ is slightly concentration
dependent, decreasing with increasing solute concentration. In the low
concentration limit $p_{\rm eff}$ extrapolates within experimental
uncertainty to the moments for the isolated Fe^(2⁺) ion ($p_{\rm eff}$ =
4.90), or Co^(2⁺) ion ($p_{\rm eff}$ = 3.87), assuming quenching of the
orbital moment. The spectroscopic state for Fe would then be ⁵D₄, and
for Co, ⁴F₉₂. It is clear that the Curie term is directly associated
with the solute magnetic moments, and that this moment is very close to
the isolated ion value in the limit of infinite dilution. The drop in
$p_{\rm eff}$ (which amounts to about 15

Madea _et al._2 also found a Curie term in their Fe- and Co-substituted
samples. They obtained for both cases a $p_{\rm eff}$ of 3.6. This is in
quite good agreement with our Co result but distinctly below the
$p_{\rm eff}$ we find for Fe substitution, although a slightly larger
$p_{\rm eff}$ for Fe substitution is also evident in their results.

In order to discuss the temperature-independent Pauli susceptibility χ₀,
we have to correct the data for the diamagnetic core contributions. We
estimated these corrections from data given by Gupta3 from which we
estimate the temperature-independent diamagnetic susceptibility as
$\chi_{\rm dia}$ = − 2.05×10⁻⁴ emu/mole, virtually independent of Fe or
Co concentration. The "mole" refers here, as in the rest of the paper,
to one formula unit, unless reference is specifically made to the Fe or
Co content. We neglect the (unknown) van Vleck contribution. For the
unsubstituted sample, the susceptibility shows no Curie contribution,
and a small constant paramagnetic susceptibility of about 1.0×10⁻⁴
emu/mole. The corrected susceptibility for this case can then be
estimated as

Figure 3: The effective magnetic moment of Fe and Co in substituted
Bi_(1.8)Pb_(0.2)Sr₂Ca(Cu_(1 − x)_M_(x)_)₂O₈, M = Fe or Co, as function
of substitution concentration.

3.05x10-4 emu/mole. The interpretation of this constant susceptibility
as Pauli susceptibility of free carriers is reasonable. An estimate of
_x_Pauli from the density of states at the Fermi surface,4,5_N_(E_(F)) =
3 states/eV cell, leads to _x_Pauli = 1.94x10-4 emu/mole. The observed
corrected temperature-independent susceptibility is therefore close to
that expected from band-structure calculations. Uncertainties in the
diamagnetics corrections, as well as possible uncertainties in the
theoretical estimation of _N_(E_(F)), may contributed to the observed
small difference. We feel in view of this comparison justified in
interpreting _kh_0 not only in the unsubstituted, but also for the
substituted samples as Pauli susceptibility. When Fe or Co are
substituted, we observe a large increase of the temperature-independent
corrected susceptibility _kh_0.corr as shown in Tables 1 and 2 and Fig.
4. It is interesting to observe that this increased
temperature-independent contribution is, within experimental
uncertainty, the same for Fe or Co substitution. At the maximum
substitution level of 8

The specific-heat data for the Fe-substituted samples are shown in Figs.
5 and 6. In Fig. 5, we show the measured specific heat as function of
temperature. In order to obtain the anomalous contribution to C_(p) in
the Fe-doped samples, we subtracted the specific heat of the undoped
sample to obtain ΔC_(p)(x) = C_(p)(x) − C_(p)(0). This contribution is
shown in Fig. 6, expressed per mole of Fe substitution. It can be seen
that the major effect of Fe substitution is an increased specific heat
at low temperatures. The onset of the additional contribution is near 15
K for x = 1, 2, and 4

The analysis of the low-temperature specific heat in terms of an
anomalously large g0 is relatively straightforward for _x_F=4, 6, and 8

$$C_{p} = \frac{A}{T^{2}} + \gamma_{0}T + \beta T^{3} + mC_{E}(T),$$

where _A_/_T_2 describes a possible low-temperature system due to
Schottky anomalies, _bT_3 is the lattice term and C_(E)(_T_) an Einstein
contribution. For _x_Fc=2

Figure 4: The corrected temperature-independent susceptibility
_kh_0.corr from measurements in the normal state in a field of 5 T.

measured C_(p)/T rises much faster than a term A/T² would suggest. It
is, therefore, unlikely that the major part of this effect is due to a
Schottky-type A/T² term. It is, however, possible that a small
contribution of this type is present, but its value cannot be reliably
estimated.

As can be seen from Fig. 5, any possible linear term in C_(p) is either
absent, or quite small in unsubstituted BISCO, as well as Zn-doped
BISCO.[1] This is in agreement with other work.[6] and makes the
detection of substitution-induced linear terms comparatively easy in
this system. In recent work[7] on the specific heat of a single crystal
of Bi2Sr2CaCu2O8, a small γ near 2.1 mJ/mole K2 was obtained from
analysis in the range 1.5−4.5 K. This term could possibly arise from
CuO2 plane disorder; it is, however, still an order of magnitude below
the enhancement found in both Fe- and Co-substituted BISCO.

We have also estimated the entropy content of the anomalous
specific-heat contribution. It was obtained by numerically integrating

$$\Delta S = \int_{0}^{T_{\rm max}}\frac{\Delta C_{p}}{T}\;dT,$$

where $\Delta C_{p} = C_{p}(x_{\rm Fe}) - C_{p}(0)$, and the upper limit
is the onset temperature $T_{\rm max}$ of the anomalous contribution
near 15 K. The low-temperature contribution, below about 2 K, is
calculated by assuming a linear behavior to the lowest temperatures, as
indicated in Fig. 6. The results are given in Table 3. We find that the
entropy content per mole Fe is strongly concentration dependent. If one
expresses ΔS as ΔS = R ln(2S + 1), then we find in the limit of low
concentrations, that S falls between S = 2 and S = 3, as shown in Fig.
8. A more accurate determination is not possible due to the large
contributions from the extrapolated regions below 2 K. The rather large
value of ΔS found for x = 1

Comparison of the present system with Fe-doped pure Cu, suggests that
the spectroscopic state of Fe is different in that system. In Cu-Fe one
also finds an additional specific-heat term,[8], its entropy content has
been obtained by Triplett and Phillips[9] as ΔS = R ln 4, giving
S = 3/2. This spin value is also in agreement with the susceptibility of
Cu-Fe measured by Hurd[10] ($p_{\rm eff}$=3.68) and by Tholence and
Tournier[11] ($p_{\rm eff}$=3.4). It appears, therefore, that Fe
substitutes in BISCO in a higher spin state, than in pure copper and
that this state is closer to the free-ion value. The large dependence of
ΔS on Fe concentration shows that complete disorder of Fe spins at high
temperatures is obtained only at quite low concentrations, somewhat
below 2

The temperature-independent term of the specific heat and the Pauli
susceptibility in metallic systems can be compared

Figure 5: The specific heat per formula mole of
Bi1,2Pb0.2Sr2Ca(Cu1−xFe)2O8 for different Fe concentrations.

Figure 6: The difference in specific heat between Fe-substituted and
unsubstituted Bi1.8Pb0.2Sr2Ca(Cu1−xFe)2O8. The data are given per mole
Fe.

by using the Wilson ratio defined as R = _kh_0/_g_0. In here both _kh_0
and g0 are to be taken in the low-temperature limit. For an ideal Fermi
system, one has

$$R_{\text{ideal}} = \frac{3}{\pi^{2}}\left( \frac{\mu_{B}}{k_{B}} \right)^{2},$$

where m_(B) is the Bohr magneton. Experimentally obtained Wilson ratios
are usually reported in reduced form, _R_norm = _R_/_R_ideal. In the
present case we take g0 as the low-temperature limiting value of g, but
_kh_0 has to be obtained from measurements above T_(c). Wilson ratios
obtained in this way are given in Tables III and IV and shown in Fig. 9.
For Co-substituted BISCO we have a normalized Wilson ratio very close to
2 (with the exception of the 4

R_(norm) = (1 + F₀^(a))⁻¹,

where F₀ is one of the Landau parameters describing the Fermi liquid. A
Wilson ratio of _R_norm = 2 gives F₀ = - 0.5, and this value is
approximately independent of doping level.

  ----------- ----------- ------------------- ---------------------- -------------------------
   _x_Co (%)   T_(c) (K)   _γ_0 (ml/mole K2)   _γ_0 (ml/mole Co K2)   Normalized Wilson ratio
       2         50.7            12.6                  315                     2.06
       3         48.6            15.6                  260                     1.97
       4         43.0            24.7                  309                     1.39
       6         38.8            18.3                  152                     2.33
       8         35.8            18.4                  115                     2.47
  ----------- ----------- ------------------- ---------------------- -------------------------

Table 4: Linear specific-heat term and Wilson ratio of
Bi18Pb0.25SrCa(Cu1−_x_Ca_x_)2O8.

Figure 8: The effective spin S obtained from the entropy content _ΔS_ of
the anomalous specific-heat contribution per mole of Fe substitution of
Bi18Pb0.25Sr2Ca(Cu1−_x_Fe_x_)2O8. _ΔS_ is given by _ΔS_ = R ln(2S + 1).

The slight increase in $R_{\rm norm}$ seen in Fig. 9 is probably still
within experimental uncertainty. For $R_{\rm norm}$=2.5, which is close
to the Wilson ratio for x = 8

A value of $R_{\rm norm}$=2 is also predicted for S =1/2 Kondo
systems.[14, 15] Reviews of $R_{\rm norm}$ for intermetallic systems
have also been given,[16, 17] values close to 1 or slightly larger are
usually found.

Our interpretation of the data for Co-doped BISCO is then that the
normal-state Pauli susceptibility is enhanced due to effective-mass
enhancement. Magnetic pair breaking in the superconducting state
introduces a linear specific heat term γ which is essentially the normal
state γ and which shows the same effective-mass enhancement with Co
doping. For the undoped case we have $\chi_{\rm 0,corr}$=3.05×10⁻⁴
emu/mole. Using a Wilson ratio of $R_{\rm norm}$=2 for this case, we
would estimate a γ₀ of 11 mJ/mole K² for unsubstituted BISCO 2212. This
γ₀ cannot be directly observed due to the opening of the gap but it can
be estimated from other data. For this we can, e.g., use the observed
anomaly in C_(p) at T_(c). A detailed analysis of this was given by
Braun _et al._,[18] who analyzed a variety of observed ΔC_(p) in BISCO
2212 in terms of fluctuation contributions and a "BCS" linear term γ in
C_(p), assumed to extend to T_(c). They find values of
$\gamma_{\rm BCS}$ between 2.8 and 10.9 mJ/mole K². These estimates are
based on the ideal BCS ratio ΔC_(p)/($\gamma_{\rm BCS}$T_(c))=1.43.
Since ΔC is the fitted parameter, a ratio larger than 1.43 would
decrease the "experimental" $\gamma_{\rm BCS}$. In spite of the
difficulties of estimating the correct γ₀ for the undoped case, it is
likely that $R_{\rm norm}$ close to 2 holds also for this case.

For Fe-doped BISCO we find in the normal state similar behavior to the
Co-doped system. The increase in $\chi_{\rm 0,corr}$ with doping is the
same as for Co doping and we interpret this again as due to an
approximate twofold increase in effective mass over the doping range.
The low-temperature behavior is, however, quite different. Here the
normalized Wilson ratio varies between 0.39 and 0.67, with an average
value of 0.49. This much smaller Wilson ratio is entirely due to the
approximately fourfold increase in the low-temperature limiting term of
γ compared to Co-doped BISCO. These large values are anomalous and
cannot be explained simply by the recovery of the normal-state density
by doping due to gapless behavior. One should, of course, also use the
limiting low-temperature value of the susceptibility for calculations of
the Wilson ratio. This is not possible since $\chi_{\rm normal}$ cannot
be obtained in the superconducting state. We therefore can also not
extrapolate the Wilson ratio in this case to the undoped limited. We
have, therefore, only the specific-heat data as indicators of anomalous
behavior at low temperatures.

Since the large increase in γ₀ is related to the magnetic Fe
substitution, it is also instructive to present the effect in terms of
the molar Fe content. This is done in Table 3 and shown in Fig. 10. As
one can see, the low-temperature limiting term γ₀ in terms of Fe content
is enormous, and reminiscent of heavy fermion behavior. In fact for the
1

The main result of this work is the large enhancement of the specific
heat below about 15 K in Fe-doped BISCO, leading at low temperatures to
a large linear term. This linear term is much larger than can be
reasonably expected from the normal-state properties and it is also much
larger than the linear term found in Co-doped BISCO. Similar large
enhancements of the specific heat have been found previously in two
other doped cuprate superconductors, (Y_(1 − x)Pr)Ba₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) (Refs.
20-23) and (Y_(1 − x)Tb_(x))Ba₂Cu₃O₇.[24] Maple _et al._[20] and Jin _et
al._[23] analyzed their data in terms of a Kondo anomaly. Phillips and
co-workers[21, 22] describe the anomalous contribution in the Pr-doped
Y-Ba-Cu-O as heavy fermion like. For a concentration of 30

Figure 10: The low-temperature limiting linear term γ₀ of the specific
heat and the corrected temperature-independent susceptibility,
$\chi_{\rm 0,corr}$ of Fe- and Co-substituted
Bi_(1.8)Pb_(0.25)F₂Ca(Cu_(1 − x)M_(x))₂O₈, M =Fe or Co. Data are given
per mole of magnetic substitution.

mJ/Cu plane K2 in all of these systems. A reason for this similar
behavior is not known.

A second important result arises from the comparison between Co-and
Fe-doped BISCO. The Co results can, as has been shown, be understood as
due to magnetic pair breaking and recovery of the normal state g. This
normal state g is enhanced due to an increase in effective mass similar
to the mass enhancement found in the normal state from kh0,corr. For
Fe-doped BISCO a very large additional enhancement of g is observed
which is similar to heavy fermion systems. A possible explanation of
this difference may lie in the different wave function of Fe and Co
substitution. As we have shown, the normal-state susceptibility makes it
likely that Fe substitutes in a D state and Co in a F state. If this
symmetry is maintained in the octahedral crystal environment, then the
Fe wave function will more readily hybridize with the oxygen orbitals
than the Co wave function. We are at present not aware of any other
possibility of explaining the difference between Fe and Co substitution.

The main picture that evolves then is that the magnetic substitutions Co
and Fe in BISCO 2212 increase the effective mass of carriers in the
normal state by approximately a factor of 2 over the doping range 0 to 8

It is interesting to note in this context that only magnetic
substitutions produce this effect in BISCO. The substitution of Zn,
which is unmagnetic in BISCO, does not introduce gaplessness (at least
it does not introduce a linear term in the specific heat). We believe
that this result is not expected in d-wave scenarios of high-T_(c)
superconductivity where both magnetic and nonmagnetic substitutions
should have similar effects.

Valuable discussions with D. J. Scalapino are gratefully acknowledged.
This work was supported by grants from the Natural Sciences and
Engineering Research Council of Canada.

## References

* [1] M. K. Yu and J. P. Franck, Phys. Rev. B **48**, 13 939 (1993). *
[2] A. Maeda, T. Yabe, S. Takebayashi, M. Hase, and K. Uchinokura, Phys.
Rev. B **41**, 4112 (1990). * [3] R. R. Gupta, in _Numerical Data and
Functional Relationships in Science and Technology_, edited by K.-H.
Hellwege and A. M. Hellwege, Landolt-Bornstein, New Series, II, Vol. 16
(Springer, Berlin, 1986), p. 402. * [4] S. Massida, J. Yu, and A. J.
Freeman, Physica C **152**, 251 (1988). * [5] H. Krakauer and W. E.
Pickett, Phys. Rev. Lett. **60**, 1665 (1988). * [6] See, the review by
A. Junot, in _Physical Properties of High Temperature Superconductors
II_, edited by E. M. Ginzburg (World Scientific, Singapore, 1990), p.
13. * [7] A. Junot, K.-Q. Wang, T. Tsukamoto, G. Triscone, B. Revaz, E.
Walker, and J. Muller, Physica C **229**, 209 (1994). * [8] J. P.
Franck, F. D. Manchester, and D. L. Martin, Proc. R. Soc. London Ser. A
**263**, 494 (1961). * [9] B. B. Triplett and N. E. Phillips, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **27**, 1001 (1971). * [10] C. M. Hurd, J. Phys. Chem. Solids
**28**, 1345 (1967). * [11] J. L. Tholence and R. Tournier, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **25**, 867 (1970). * [12] Y. Tokura, Y. Taguchi, Y. Okada, Y.
Fujishima, T. Arima, K. Kumagai, and Y. Iye, Phys. Rev. Lett. **70**,
2126 (1993). * [13] K. Kumajai, T. Suzuki, Y. Taguchi, Y. Okada, F.
Fujishima, and Y. Tokura, Phys. Rev. B **48**, 7636 (1993). * [14] K. G.
Wilson, Rev. Mod. Phys. **47**, 773 (1975). * [15] Z. Zou and P. W.
Anderson, Phys. Rev. Lett. **57**, 2073 (1986). * [16] H. Lustfeld and
A. Bringer, Solid State Commun. **28**, 119 (1978). * [17] D. M. Newns
and A. C. Hewson, J. Phys. F **10**, L429 (1980). * [18] E. Braun, W.
Schnelle, H. Broicher, J. Harnischmacher, D. Wohleben, C. Allgeier, W.
Reith, J. S. Schilling, J. Bock, E. Preisler, and G. J. Vogt, Z. Phys. B
**84**, 333 (1991). * [19] W. P. Beyermann, M. F. Hundley, P. C.
Canfield, J. D. Thompson, Z. Fisk, J. L. Smith, M. Selsane, C. Godart,
and M. Latroche, Phys. Rev. Lett. **66**, 3289 (1991). * [20] M. B.
Maple, N. Y. Ayoub, J. Beille, T. Bjérnholm, Y. Dalichaouch, E. A.
Early, S. Ghamaty, B. W. Lee, J. T. Markert, J. J. Neumeier, G. Nieva,
L. M. Paulius, I. K. Schuller, C. L. Seaman, and P. K. Tsai, in
_Progress in High Temperature Superconductivity_, edited by R. Nicolsky
(World Scientific, Singapore, 1990), Vol. 25, p. 536. * [21] N. E.
Phillips, R. A. Fisher, R. Caspary, A. Amato, H. B. Radowsky, J. L.
Peng, L. Zhang, and R. N. Shelton, Phys. Rev. B **43**, 11 488 (1991). *
[22] R. A. Fisher, N. E. Phillips, D. A. Wright, H. B. Radowsky, T. J.
Goodwin, J. L. Peng, R. N. Shelton, and L. Zhang, Physica C
**235**-**240**, 1749 (1994). * [23] D. Jin, H. Zhou, Y. W. Song, J. L.
Luo, Y. P. Wang, T. Chen, X. H. Cai, X. B. Fan, Q. Z. Ran, Z. X. Zhao,
J. P. Wakelin, D. F. Brewer, and A. L. Thomson, Physica C **235-240**,
1751 (1994). * [24] C. Cao, S. McCall, F. Freibert, M. Shepard, P.
Henning, J. E. Crow, and B. Andraka, Phys. Rev. B **52**, 71 (1995).
