Ginzburg-Landau parameter in YBa₂Cu₃O_(6.95) below the irreversibility
temperature as measured by μ⁺SR in high magnetic fields

T.M. Riseman,^(*) J.H. Brewer. K.H. Chow,^(†) W.N. Hardy, R.F. Kiefl,
S.R. Kreitzman, R. Liang, W.A. MacFarlane, P. Mendels,^(‡) G.D. Morris,
J. Rammer,${}^{\lx@sectionsign}$ and J.W. Schneider^(**)

TRIUMF, Canadian Institute for Advanced Research and Department of
Physics, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, British Columbia,
Canada V6T 1Z1

C. Niedermayer

Fakultat fur Physik, Universitat Konstanz, D-7750 Konstanz, Germany

S.L. Lee

Physik-Institut der Universitat Zurich, CH-8057 Zurich, Switzerland

Received 7 February 1995

###### Abstract

The vortex state of a type-II superconductor produces a distinctive μ⁺SR
line shape with features determined by the average internal field B₀,
the magnetic penetration depth λ, the superconducting coherence length
ξ, and the degree of disorder in the vortex lattice. Only in the high
field regime (λ ≫ L > ξ, where L is the intervortex spacing) do the
vortex cores (of radius  ≈ ξ) occupy a large enough area that they are
observable in the line shape as a high field cutoff. Our μ⁺SR
measurements of the field distributions in a mosaic of single crystals
of YBa₂Cu₃O_(6.95) in fields of 1.9, 4.1, 4.7, and 6.5 T
(${\bf B}_{0}\parallel\hat{\bf c}$) show all the features of the line
shape. We find λ = 0.15 ± 0.01μm at 10 K and the Ginzburg-Landau
parameter κ ≡ λ/ξ = 69.6 ± 1.4 constant between 30 and 75 K; this is the
only measurement to date of κ in YBa₂Cu₃O_(6.95) below the
irreversibility temperature. Due to disorder in the vortex lattice,
either from pinning or from vortex fluctuations that are quasistatic on
the time scale of μ⁺SR, the observed line shape is "smeared" relative to
that predicted for a perfect lattice. From the degree of smearing, we
estimate an upper limit of 5.5

pacs: 0163-1829/95/52(14)/10569(12)/506.00 + Footnote †: preprint: 1
OCTOBER 1995-II

## I Introduction

This paper presents a determination of the magnetic penetration depth λ
and the superconducting coherence length ξ in the optimally oxygenated
high-temperature superconductor YBa₂Cu₃O_(6.95), based upon positive
muon spin rotation (μ⁺SR) measurements of the local field distribution
n(B) in single-crystal mosaic samples. Magnetic fields ${\bf B}_{0}$ of
1.9 T, 4.1 T, 4.7 T, and 6.5 T were applied parallel to the crystalline
$\hat{\bf c}$ axis for temperatures between 10 K and 75 K. Since all the
results reported here are for ${\bf B}_{0}\parallel\hat{\bf c}$, an
isotropic London treatment is appropriate: λ refers to the magnetic
penetration depth in the copper oxide planes (λ_(ab)), ${\bf H}_{c2}$
refers to ${\bf H}_{c2}\parallel\hat{\bf c}$, and so on. Any possible
effects of in-plane ($\hat{\bf a}$-$\hat{\bf b}$) anisotropy have been
neglected.

An extensive analysis is performed using a modified London model, which
employs a cutoff in the reciprocal lattice vectors to make the field
finite at the vortex core and introduces a term (1 − B₀/H_(c2)) to take
into account the field dependence of the superconducting order
parameter. When the average internal field B₀ is below about 25

The distribution n(B) is very asymmetric (see Fig. 1), with a cusp below
the average field and a long high field tail corresponding to the high
fields near the vortex cores in the vortex or flux line lattice (FLL).
Its overall linewidth is predominantly proportional to λ⁻². The
coherence length serves primarily to introduce a high field cutoff at
the field just outside the vortex core; however, at fields which are
non-negligible compared with H_(c2), this cutoff effectively narrows
n(B) so that the linewidth depends upon ξ as well as λ. Because the
distribution n(B) is more sensitive to λ than to ξ, the former could be
much more accurately determined if one could fix ξ (or, equivalently,
H_(c2)) from other experiments. However, the tremendously high value of
H_(c2)∣_(T → 0) in YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) makes it quite difficult to measure
directly, as reflected in the inconsistency between values of
$H_{c2}\mid_{T\to 0}({\bf B}_{0}\parallel\hat{\bf c})$ reported in the
literature, which vary from 40 T (from pulsed fields[4]) to 130 T (from
de Haas-van Alphen oscillations using explosively driven pulsed
magnets[5]) to 140 T (from resistivity using explosively driven pulsed
magnets[6]). Lower bounds for dH_(c2)/dT∣_(T_(c)) can be determined from
ac and dc resistivity measurements using conventional static magnets,
but measurements of H_(c2) near T_(c) are complicated by fluctuation
effects as well as flux flow, flux creep, and glassy vortex phase
transitions. Perhaps the most reliable estimates of dH_(c2)/dT∣_(T_(c))
have been made using magnetization measurements in the reversible regime
near T_(c), giving values ranging from −1.65 T/K in a single
YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) reversal[7] to −1.90 T/K in an aligned YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ)
powder suspended in epoxy.[8] However, extrapolating H_(c2)(T) over the
whole temperature range from values close to T_(c) is risky at best,
since it once again requires assumptions about the temperature
dependence of H_(c2), which is affected by the degree of strong
coupling, a three-dimensional (3D) or 2D Fermi surface, etc.

Since a consensus on H_(c2)(T) well below T_(c) is certainly lacking, we
cannot assume a T dependence of ξ in our analysis of μ⁺SR frequency
spectra. Fortunately, by simultaneously fitting n(B) data from several
μ⁺SR runs at the same temperature and different fields, we have been
able to independently determine both λ and ξ at each temperature.

## II Determination of the Field Distribution Using the μ⁺Sr Technique

The positive muon (μ⁺) is a spin 1/2 lepton (with a mass approximately
one-ninth of a proton) which, as a decay product of a positive pion at
rest, is spin polarized antiparallel to its momentum. In a transverse
field muon spin rotation (TF-μ⁺SR) experiment, muons are implanted one
at a time in the bulk of a sample to which a magnetic field is applied
perpendicular to the muon polarization. Just before implantation, the
incoming muon passes through a thin scintillator, called the muon
counter, which starts a LeCroy 4204 TDC (the "clock"). Once stopped in
the sample at a random location ${\bf r}$, the muon precesses about the
local magnetic field ${\bf B}$ (${\bf r}$) at the Larmor frequency
$\omega=\gamma_{\mu}B({\bf r})$, where γ_(μ) = 2π × 135.5 MHz/T. With a
mean lifetime τ_(μ) = 2.197 μs, the muon decays into a positron, a
neutrino, and an antineutrino. The high-energy (up to 52.8 MeV) positron
is preferentially emitted along the muon spin direction (due to parity
symmetry violation in the weak interaction) and is detected by one or
more thick scintillation counters; the resultant e⁺ trigger stops the
clock. The time dependence of the muon ensemble polarization is recorded
by histogramming many such time intervals between each muon entering the
sample and its decay in a given direction. Several such histograms are
accumulated, one for each positron detector, which defines a decay
direction and therefore a muon polarization component. For the case of
two positron counters (indicated below by + and −) on opposite sides of
the sample, defining an axis perpendicular to the applied field, the
number of events in the μSR histograms may be written as

N_(±)(t) = N₀^(±)[1 ± A_(±)P(t)]e^(−t/τ_(μ))  + B_(±),
(1)

where N₀^(±) are normalization constants, A_(±) are the empirical
maximum positron decay asymmetries (corresponding to full muon
polarization along that axis), P(t) is the time evolution of the muon
polarization along said axis, and B_(±) are time-independent random
backgrounds.

When the transverse components of the local field are very small
compared to the magnitude B_(o) of the average internal field
($\left|{\bf B}({\bf r})-{\bf B}_{0}\right|\ll B_{0}$), as was the case
in the experiment discussed in this paper, the relationship between the
muon polarization function and the internal fields is particularly
simple:

$$P(t)=\frac{1}{V}\int_{V}\cos\left[\gamma_{\mu}B({\bf r})t+2\pi\theta\right]\,d ^{3}r,$$
(2)

where V is the volume of the sample and the angle θ is the initial angle
of the muon spin relative to the + counter. This equation can be
rewritten as a Fourier transform,

P(t) = ∫n(B)cos [γ_(μ)Bt + 2πθ] dB,
(3)

where the weighting factor n(B), called the Fourier transform’s _line
shape_, represents the fraction of the sample which has a particular
local field magnitude B (within dB). This line shape may thus be
extracted from the experimental polarization function P(t) using
standard Fourier transform techniques.[9]

## III Vortex Lattice and the Modified London Model

In an isotropic superconductor, the vortices preferentially form a
triangular lattice[10, 11] at positions

$${\bf r}_{u}=n_{1}\left(L\delta\right)+n_{2}\left(L\frac{1}{2}\delta+L\frac{ \sqrt{3}}{2}\delta\right),$$
(4)

where n₁ and n₂ are integers and

$$L=\left(\frac{2\phi_{0}}{\sqrt{3}B_{0}}\right)^{\frac{1}{2}}$$
(5)

is the intervortex spacing; ϕ₀ = 2.068 × 10⁻¹⁵ T m² is the flux quantum
and B₀ is the average internal field. The isotropic London model, which
ignores the vortex cores (i.e., assumes ξ ≪ L as well as ξ ≪ λ),
predicts that the local fields are given by

$$B({\bf r})=B_{0}\sum_{\bf k}\frac{\exp\left[-i{\bf k}\cdot{\bf r}\right]}{1+k^{2 }\lambda^{2}}\ ,$$
(17)

where ${\bf k}$ are the reciprocal lattice vectors of ${\bf r}_{v}$.
When the London model is in the "medium field" limit, which is the case
when B₀ is greater than the lower critical field H_(c1) (or λ > L), the
extent of variations in $B({\bf r})$, and consequently the linewidth of
n(B), is proportional to λ⁻² (Fig. 1). When a field is applied along the
symmetry axis of a uniaxial superconductor, the isotropic model is
appropriate. In the case of YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ), which has only a modest
anisotropy in the $\hat{\bf a}$-$\hat{\bf b}$ plane, the isotropic model
will work well with an effective penetration depth
($\lambda_{\rm eff}=\sqrt{\lambda_{a}\lambda_{b}}$) when
$\lambda_{\rm eff}>L$.

The field variation $B({\bf r})$ within the triangular vortex lattice in
a type-II superconductor produces a distinctive asymmetric line shape
n(B) in the Fourier transform (see Fig. 1). The point between three
vortices, where the field has its minimum value, shows up as a
shoulder-shaped cutoff at the left edge of the line shape. The saddle
point between two vortices produces a Van Hove singularity which shows
up as a cusp in the line shape well below the average field B₀. Since
the field increases rapidly towards the center of a vortex, the
distribution has a long high-frequency tail, which must actually have a
cutoff at the maximum field located at the vortex core. Due to a finite
critical current, the vortex core, defined by the absence of
superconductivity, has a radius of approximately ξ, the coherence length
of the supercurrent’s carrier pairs.

In fields that are high enough that the vortex core size is no longer
negligible, but are still smaller than approximately one-quarter of the
upper critical field H_(c2), the field distribution in an isotropic
superconductor can be phenomenologically approximated by modifying the
London model as follows:[2, 3, 12, 13, 1]

$$B({\bf r})=B_{0}\sum_{\bf k}\frac{e^{-i{\bf k}\cdot{\bf r}}\,\exp\left[-\frac {\xi^{2}{\bf k}^{2}}{2(1-b)}\right]}{1+\frac{k^{2}\lambda^{2}}{1-b}}\ ,$$
(18)

where b = B₀/H_(c2)(T) is the reduced magnetic field. The exponential
involving the coherence length ξ serves as a cutoff for the reciprocal
lattice vectors at k ≈ 2π/ξ, which yields a finite value for the
magnetic field at the vortex cores. By contrast, the ordinary London
model [Eq. (17)] predicts an infinite field at the center of the
vortices. The term (1 − b) reflects the field dependence of the
superconducting order parameter,[3, 13] which, for constant B₀ and λ,
causes a reduction in the overall width of the line shape with
decreasing H_(c2) (see Ref. 14). The modified London model must be used
rather than the regular London model at higher fields (B₀ ≳ 0.05H_(c2)),
because the area occupied by the vortex core becomes significant
relative to the unit cell of the FLL. The maximum field in the vortex
core produces a non-negligible cutoff amplitude in the μSR line shape
n(B) (Fig. 2). Moreover, the linewidth decreases both for increasing
field (Fig. 2) and smaller κ (Fig. 3). If the weak-coupling BCS
functions for ξ(T) and λ(T) are substituted into Eq. (18), the resulting
line shapes closely match the line shapes obtained from Gorkov’s
s-wave-based equations.[1]

In isotropic BCS theory in the Ginzburg-Landau limit, the coherence
length can be related to the upper critical field[15] by

$$H_{c2}=\frac{\phi_{0}}{2\pi\xi^{2}}.$$
(19)

Using this relation and recognizing that the reciprocal lattice vectors
${\bf k}$ are inversely proportional to the inter-vortex spacing L, Eq.
(18) can be expressed as a function of only B₀, λ, and ξ or,
alternatively, of B₀, λ⁻², and H_(c2) or B₀, λ⁻², and κ. In reality, the
field distribution $B({\bf r})$ is most directly determined by the
coherence length rather than the upper critical field, because the
exponential in

Figure 2: Line shape as calculated by the modified London model [Eq.
(18)] for an isotropic superconductor with B₀ = 1, 3, 5, and 7 T (widest
to narrowest), λ⁻² = 37.0 μm⁻², and κ = 70.

Figure 1: Line shape as calculated by the modified London model [Eq.
(18)] for an isotropic superconductor with B₀ = 4.07 T, λ⁻² = 25.0, 35,
45, and 55 μm⁻² (narrowest to widest), and κ = 70.

volving the size of the vortex core ξ clearly uses a physical distance
and the expression (1 − b) < 1 reflects the spatial portion of the
sample where the order parameter is suppressed in and near the vortex
cores. Therefore, if Eq. (13) does not hold exactly for all
temperatures, as may be the case for theories other than weak-coupling
BCS,[25] then it is more appropriate to express the reduced field as

$$b=\frac{4\pi}{\sqrt{3}}\,\left(\frac{\xi}{L}\right)^{2},$$
(14)

rather than as b = B₀/H_(c2)(T). Results for the Ginzburg-Landau
parameter κ = λ/ξ from analysis of μSR line shapes should be model
independent regardless of whether H_(c2)(T) is exactly proportional to
ξ⁻²(T).

## IV Disorder in the FLL line lattice

If the FLL deviates from its ideal configuration as a perfect triangular
array (due to dislocations, microscopic disorder, variations in the
macroscopic average field, etc.), the theoretical μSR line shape will
lose its sharp features at the minimum, cusp, and maximum fields. This
means that the line shape of the experimental data cannot be adequately
fitted to the theoretical line shape n(B) for the ideal FLL alone. The
theoretical line shape may be convoluted with a Gaussian distribution of
fields,

$$n_{s}(B)=\int\frac{1}{\sqrt{2\pi}\sigma_{B}}\,\exp\left[-\frac{1}{2}\left( \frac{B-B^{\prime}}{\sigma_{B}}\right)^{2}\right]\,n(B^{\prime})\,dB^{\prime},$$
(15)

a method successfully used in the analysis of μ⁺SR data on Nb.[16]
Brandt[2] showed that this convolution is consistent with how, in a
stiff FLL, random disorder and distortions due to flux pinning modify
the line shape from the ideal case.

The degree of the disorder can be estimated from the experimentally
determined values of σ_(B) and λ. The vortex displacement is given by

$${\bf s}_{v}(z)={\bf r}_{v}(z)-{\bf r}_{v}^{\,0},$$
(16)

where ${\bf r}_{v}^{\,0}$ is the location of the vth flux line in the
ideal FLL. By assuming that the vortices are stiff and noting that the
integrals of the exponentials are Dirac δ functions, using Eq. (43) in
Ref. [2] we can estimate from σ_(B) the rms displacements ⟨s²⟩^(1/2) of
the vortices from their ideal positions in the perfect FLL:

$$\langle s^{2}\rangle^{1/2}\approx\frac{\sigma_{B}}{B_{0}}\sqrt{2}\left(\sum_{ \bf k\in k_{BZ}}\frac{k_{a}^{2}+k_{y}^{2}}{\left[1+\lambda^{2}k^{2}/(1-b) \right]^{2}}\right)^{-\frac{1}{2}}.$$
(17)

The summation is limited to the vortex lattice’s first Brillouin zone
(BZ), for which 0 ≤ k < 2π/L, where L is the intervortex spacing. With
small random distortions, the contribution to σ_(B) from random shear[2]
is much smaller (by a factor of  ∼ 10⁻³ in this experiment) than that
from random compression[2] and is therefore neglected.

Figure 4 shows the amount of smearing corresponding to random disorder
⟨s²⟩^(1/2)/L of 0

It is important to remember that μ⁺SR is only sensitive to variations in
the magnitude of the local field, such as that caused by
nearest-neighbor disorder in the FLL. Therefore, with μ⁺SR one cannot
distinguish between local deviations of vortices from their ideal
positions in a FLL which retains its long-range hexagonal order and
disorder which includes slow rotations or undulations of the FLL’s unit
vectors.[2]

Figure 4: Line shape as calculated by the modified London model [Eq.
(14)] for an isotropic superconductor with B₀ = 4.07 T, λ⁻² = 37.0 μm⁻²,
κ = 70, and ⟨s²⟩^(1/2)/L = 0

Figure 3: Line shape as calculated by the modified London model [Eq.
(14)] for an isotropic superconductor with B₀ = 4.07 T, λ⁻² = 37.0 μm⁻²,
and κ = 49.497 48, 57.153 77, 70.0, and 98.994 96 (narrowest to widest).
These values of κ correspond to κ⁻² = 2.0 × 70⁻², 1.5 × 70⁻², 70⁻², and
0.5 × 70⁻².

## V Experiment

A flux method was used to make high quality YBa₂Cu₃O_(6.95) crystals,
which were grown in yttria-stabilized zirconia crucibles and carefully
oxygen annealed.[17] The width of their critical temperature transition
was less than 0.25 K, with an onset at 93.5 K. Nineen flat crystals with
a typical thickness of 0.2 mm, ranging in area from 7.4 mm² to 0.26 mm²
each, were mounted as a mosaic on an 8 mm diameter, 99.999

The μSR spectrometer used in this experiment consisted of one muon
counter and two positron counters, all with parabolic surfaces designed
such that, for a given counter, each light ray has roughly the same
transit time; this geometry provides a better timing resolution than
traditional paddle-shaped counters. The scintillators, placed at the
foci of the parabolic reflecting surfaces, are of Pilot U plastic. When
combined with a 7 T warm bore superconducting magnet, this high field,
high timing resolution spectrometer made possible the highest transverse
field μSR measurements reported to date. Figure 5 shows the portion of
the apparatus (counters, cryostat, and beam pipe) which lies within the
bore of the magnet. Outside the bore, additional parabolic surfaces
refocus the light on mesh dynode photomultipliers, which tolerate much
higher magnet fringe fields than do conventional photomultiplier tubes.
Tests of the counters suggested a timing resolution[19] of 600 ps, which
gives an effective resolution of 750 ps when a spread of 3

## VI Data Analysis

When fitting the data, one might hope to obtain the theoretical line
shape in the London "medium field" limit by simply scaling a single
representative line shape by λ⁻²; however, since the field cutoff at the
vortex core is evident in the high field data (and is an important
aspect of the measurement), this was not possible and it was necessary
to recalculate the line shape directly for every significant change of
the fitted parameters. The spatial distribution of the local magnetic
field B(r) was calculated for given values λ⁻², H_(c2), and B₀ over an
array of positions within the FLL unit cell and then interpolated to
increase the effective number of points. From this, a probability
distribution of local fields n(B) was calculated. Then n(B) was
convoluted with a Gaussian of width σ_(B) [Eq. (4.1)] to represent the
effects of nuclear dipolar fields, disorder in the FLL, and the Gaussian
apodization[9] used in the Fourier transform of the data. Since the time
signal is completely depolarized within about 2 μs, except for the
slowly relaxing background signal, apodization reduces the noise in the
Fourier transform without much distortion of the results. Apodization
does introduce an additional width in the experimental Fourier
transform, but it is smaller than either the intrinsic width of the
ideal line shape or the corrected convolution. Finally, this "smeared"
theoretical line shape was multiplied by an overall normalization. In
addition, a simple Gaussian line with width δ_(b), average field B_(b),
and normalization n_(b) was added to fit the background signal due to
muons stopping in the sample mounting or the cryostat rather than in the
sample.

For a given line shape n(B) corresponding to a spatial field
distribution B(r; B₀, λ⁻², H_(c2)), there is a large range of values for
the penetration depth and coherence length which produce nearly the same
line shape.[21] Therefore it would be advantageous to use reliable
values for ξ(T) or H_(c2)(T) from the literature, and thereby determine
λ(T) to great accuracy, because the line shape is less sensitive to
ξ(T)–the extreme case being low temperatures where the conditions
approach the London

Figure 5: High timing resolution apparatus. Several light paths are
indicated by the dot-dashed lines. The crosshatched area is the
scintillator for the right positron counter. The source of light rays
for the muon counter is a 1 cm diameter by 500 μm thick scintillator.
The roughly capsule-shaped groove near the end of the sample rod is the
location of a carbon glass thermometer. Helios is a 7 T superconducting
magnet with a 6-in. warm bore.

"medium field" limit (B₀ ≪ H_(c2)) and the line shape is nearly
independent of ξ. Unfortunately, as discussed earlier, reliable values
for H_(c2)(T) in YBa₂Cu₃O_(6.95) are not available over the whole
temperature range because H_(c2)(T) is very high and therefore difficult
to measure. However, the ambiguity can be reduced[21] by simultaneously
fitting several runs at the same temperature and different applied
fields with shared parameters λ⁻² and H_(c2).

As an example of this "global" fitting technique, Fig. 6 shows the χ²
fit quality factor χ_(B)² over a grid of fixed values of λ⁻² and H_(c2)
for individual runs at 70 K in fields of 1.9 T, 4.1 T, 4.7 T, and 6.5 T
as well as χ_(T)² ≡ ∑_(B)χ_(B)² for the four runs fitted simultaneously.
The best (lowest) χ_(B)² for each run is highlighted by a solid square
and increasing values of χ_(B)² are indicated by smaller and smaller
boxes, thereby roughly indicating χ_(B)² contours in λ⁻², H_(c2) space
of similar fit quality. If λ⁻² and H_(c2) were completely independent
variables, one would expect elliptical contours near the minimum.
Instead we see curved "troughs," which suggest a high degree of
correlation. These troughs tend to follow the contours of constant
average field B₀ extracted from the fits with the lowest χ_(B)² in the
individual runs (marked R in the figures) and the lowest total χ_(T)² in
the combined result (marked T). This suggests that along the contour,
the line shapes are nearly identical. Because the individual χ_(B)²
contours for different fields have different slopes, the total χ_(T)²
contours tend to have deeper and less troughlike minima. In other words,
by fitting to a common λ⁻² and a common H_(c2) for runs of different
fields at a given temperature, both λ⁻² and H_(c2) can be determined
from the μSR line shapes. The uncertainties in the best values of λ⁻²
and H_(c2) were estimated in terms of the distance from the best-fit
point χ_(T, min )² to the locus of χ_(T, min )² + 1 (highlighted by
solid diamonds). If there were no points within 2 of χ_(T, min )²,

Figure 6: Fit quality factor χ_(B)² as a function of λ⁻² and H_(c2) for
individual runs at T = 70 K in fields of 1.9 T, 4.1 T, 4.7 T, and 6.5 T
(left and center) and the total χ_(T)² (χ_(T)² = ∑_(B)χ_(B)²) resulting
from simultaneous (“global”) fits (right). The solid square marks the
minimum (χ_(m)²), open squares with solid diamonds mark χ² ≤ χ_(m)² + 1,
open squares with stars mark χ² ≤ χ_(m)² + 2, and open squares with open
diamonds mark χ² ≤ χ_(m)² + 3. The smaller boxes represent higher values
of χ² up to χ_(m)² + 10. The curve marked R is a contour of those fits
which have the same average field (B₀) as the best fit for the run.
(Relative to the background field, B₀ − B_(b) = −4.07 G for B_(b) = 1.9
T, B₀ − B_(b) = −5.34 G for B_(b) = 4.1 T, B₀ − B_(b) = −4.91 G for
B_(b) = 4.7 T, and B₀ − B_(b) = −9.97 G for B_(b) = 6.5 T for curves R.)
The curve marked T is the contour of those fits which have the same
average field (B₀) as the best global fit for the 70 K runs.
(B₀ − B_(b) = −2.57 G for B_(b) = 1.9 T, B₀ − B_(b) = −5.09 G for
B_(b) = 4.1 T, B₀ − B_(b) = −4.72 G for B_(b) = 4.7 T, and
B₀ − B_(b) = −10.47 G for B_(b) = 6.5 T for curves T.)

then the uncertainties were estimated to be the step size in the grid of
λ⁻² and H_(c2) over which χ_(T)² was evaluated. Due to the relatively
coarse step size, the error estimates for λ⁻² and H_(c2) are sometimes
rather rough.

## VII Results

### Line shapes

Figures 7, 8, 9, and 10 show the experimental line shapes and fits for
all measured fields at selected temperatures. The line shapes are all
shown relative to the background signal (centered at 0 G) and have an
arbitrary vertical offset. Because the μSR signal amplitude is reduced
with increasing applied field due to loss of timing resolution and muon
dephasing, the Fourier amplitudes have been renormalized so that the
superconducting line shapes all have the same area. These figures
demonstrate that, with increasing applied field, the line shape narrows
slightly and that the difference between the field at the vortex core
and the average field is reduced, as predicted by the presence of ξ in
Eq. (3.4). These changes in the line shape are most dramatic at 70 K
(Fig. 10) where the applied fields (1.9 T, 4.1 T, 4.7 T, and 6.5 T)
cover a large range of reduced fields (b = 0.04, 0.09, 0.10, and 0.14,
respectively). In the highest measured field (6.5 T), the line shape has
a very distinct high field cutoff, while at the lowest field (1.9 T) it
looks almost London like with the cutoff field nearly lost in the noise.

Figures 1-4 in Ref. [22] show the experimental line shapes and fits for
all measured temperatures at each applied field. The linewidth increases
with decreasing temperature, reflecting the temperature dependence of λ.

$$\lambda^{-2}\propto 1-\{T/T_{\rm c}\}^{p}$$
(101)

yields an exponent of p = 2.89 ± 0.23, which does not support the
Gorter-Casimir version of the two-fluid temperature dependence with
p = 4 reported in sintered powder samples.[23, 24] Gorter-Casimir
behavior is usually interpreted as being indicative of strong-coupling
s-wave superconductivity. The BCS weak-coupling s-wave temperature
dependence does not fit as well as the power law.

Figure 12 shows the temperature dependence of the upper critical field
H_(c2) (which we assume is proportional to ξ⁻²) when
${\bf B}_{0}\|\hat{\bf c}$. The value of
$H_{c2}(10\,{\rm K})=90\pm 10\,{\rm T}$ corresponds to a coherence
length in the planes of $\xi_{ab}(10\,{\rm K})=1.9\pm 0.1\,{\rm nm}$.
Since at lower temperatures the vortex core size is small and therefore
has relatively little influence on the line shape, results below
$30\,{\rm K}$ are not so well determined, and were therefore excluded
from the fits to the various models. (The $20\,{\rm K}$ runs also have
significantly fewer events than the $10\,{\rm K}$ and $30\,{\rm K}$
runs, and so the $20\,{\rm K}$ results are even less reliable.) In Fig.
12, the weak-coupling s-wave BCS temperature dependence for H_(c2) in an
isotropic superconductor cannot be distinguished from that in a 2D
superconductor with a cylindrical Fermi surface.[1] Fitting to a power
law yields an exponent close to 2 (see Table 1). All other techniques[4,
5, 6, 7, 8] also find it difficult to reliably measure the
low-temperature values of H_(c2)(T) ∝ ξ⁻²(T) which are critical for
determining which theory best describes H_(c2)(T).

The Ginzburg-Landau parameter κ_(ab) = λ_(ab)/ξ_(ab) (see Fig. 13) shows
essentially no temperature dependence if one ignores the points below
$30\,{\rm K}$ where the values of H_(c2) are less reliable. The fit to a
constant Ginzburg-Landau parameter gives κ = 69.6 ± 1.4; κ should be
independent of temperature if ${\rm YBa_{2}Cu_{3}O_{6.95}}$ were a
weak-coupling s-wave BCS superconductor. However, κ could have a weak
temperature dependence (due to, for in

Figure 13: The Ginzburg-Landau parameter κ from global fits of high
field data. The solid line is a fit over the range $30\,{\rm K}$ to
$75\,{\rm K}$ for a constant κ, with κ = 69.6 ± 1.4. The dashed line is
a fit to a linear temperature dependence, with κ(0) = 74.0 ± 6.0 and a
slope of $s=-0.08\pm 0.11\,{\rm K}^{-1}$. Since H_(c2) has relatively
little influence on the line shape at lower temperature, results below
$30\,{\rm K}$ are not well determined, and so were excluded from the
fits to the various models.

Figure 10: High field μSR line shapes and fits to the modified London
model at $T=70\,{\rm K}$.

stance, strong coupling [25]) which is unnoticeable beneath the large
error bars for the measured values κ(T). Linear regression produces a
line with a slope smaller than its own uncertainty, and so a linear fit
is no better than a fit to a constant. However, the linear fit gives a
more generous error of 6.0 for the value of κ at T = 0. Our value of κ
is consistent with the average value of 72 found by Gohng and Finnemore
[8] using reversible magnetization in the narrow temperature range
between T_(c) and the irreversibility temperature.

Our data represent a relatively coarse sampling of temperatures, whereas
a detailed investigation of λ(T) in the low-temperature regime is
necessary for distinguishing between possible pairing states – an s-wave
superconductor should have an exponentially weak temperature behavior
while a d-wave superconductor should have a linear T dependence. Two
effects make interpreting intermediate temperatures rather difficult.
First, the degree of strong coupling and the degree of gap anisotropy
typically affect the behavior between $\frac{1}{4}T_{c}$ and
$\frac{3}{4}T_{c}$. Second, impurity scattering makes both s-wave and
d-wave models tend towards a T⁻² dependence. [26, 27] More extensive
μ⁺SR (Ref. [28]) and microwave [29] measurements in similar
YBa₂Cu₃O_(6.95) crystals at lower field reveal a linear behavior in
$\lambda(T{<}40\,{\rm K})$ suggestive of d-wave superconductivity, which
confirms our tentative conclusion that λ(T) seems to be inconsistent
with an s-wave pairing state. It is perplexing that high quality single
crystals show a temperature dependence significantly different from that
of unoriented sintered powders. The sintered powders may have more
atomic impurity sites and/or structural defects which serve as
scattering sites; small grain sizes may also increase the effect of
inhomogeneous bulk flux expulsion.

Recent μ⁺SR measurements on similar crystals [28] in fields of 0.5 T and
1.5 T concentrated on the temperature region below 40 K, employing the
same model used here but assuming a constant κ = 68 and that σ_(B) ∝ λ⁻²
(see Sec. VII.4) based on the present results. The observed "linearity"
of the temperature dependence of
$\lambda_{ab}(T<30\,{\rm K})$_decreases_ with increasing fields. Above
30 K, the magnetic penetration depth appears to be independent of
applied field. This suggests that our increased difficulty in fitting
our data below 30 K may in part represent a breakdown of the model used,
as well as the reduced effect of ξ upon the line shape. Moreover, since
the data presented here are taken in fields larger than the 0.5 T and
1.5 T fields used by Sonier _et al._, [28] the linear low-temperature
behavior in λ(T) may be largely quenched at our higher fields. This
suggests restricting conclusions about κ(T) to the temperature range
30-75 K, where no field dependence has been detected.

### Local fields versus temperature

Figure 14 shows the temperature and field dependence of the maximum
(B_(V)), cusp (B_(C)), and minimum (B_(M)) fields, relative to the
average field B₀ of the superconducting signal. These fields are not the
parameters used in the calculation of the line shape, but are features
of the _unsmeared_ theoretical line shape which, when convoluted with a
Gaussian, fits the experimental data best when λ⁻²(T) and H_(c2)(T) are
shared for all fields at a given temperature T. The curves shown are the
result of fits to B_(M), B_(C), or B_(V) = c (1 − [T/T_(c)]^(p)),
individual cases of which are listed in Table 1. In all cases, the
fitted exponent p is reduced when the applied field is increased, with
the strongest effect for B_(V). The reduction is due to the term (1 − b)
in Eq. (14) which represents the field dependence of the superconducting
order parameter. Note that B_(C) and B_(M) have exponents p close to 2,
while B_(V) has 1.0 < p < 1.5 – all of which are smaller than that for
λ⁻², which has p close to 3. For instance, if one were to fit the 4.1 T
data with a Gaussian for the

Figure 14: Maximum (a), cusp (b), and minimum (c) fields relative to the
average field in the superconductor, from global fits for applied fields
of 1.9 T (circles, dotted curve), 4.1 T (triangles, dashed curve), 4.7 T
(upside-down triangles, dot-ted-dashed curve), and 6.5 T (squares,
without curve). See Table 1 for the parameters used in the curves.
Errors for the maximum fields are underestimated.

smeared cusp region, one would find a temperature dependence of the
Gaussian’s width of p ≈ 1.85-2.0. This highlights the need for care when
interpreting the temperature dependence of data taken in lower fields
over a wide temperature range (0 < T ≤ T_(c)) as being in the London
"medium field" limit [λ > L and ξ ≪ L and Eq. (3.3) is valid], which
predicts that gross features of the line shape (such as the overall rms
linewidth) will be proportional to λ⁻². In particular, data taken near
T_(c) will have a higher reduced field b due to the temperature
dependence of H_(c2) and will _not_ be in the London "medium field"
limit since ξ/L is no longer negligible.

The Meissner effect is not well determined by the μ⁺SR data. At 70-75 K,
the average internal field in the superconductor relative to the applied
field (as determined by runs taken above T_(c)) is about −1 G at 1.9 T,
−2 G at 4.1 T, −3 G at 4.7 T, and −2 G at 6.5 T. Since 70 K is below the
irreversibility temperature and the FLL is locked in, further flux
expulsion is prevented by pinning of the vortices. However, as the
temperature decreases, the average field in the superconductor
_increases_ approximately linearly with temperature, which is not
consistent with flux expulsion or creep. The fitted value of the average
field is strongly influenced by the maximum field at the vortex core,
which is more poorly determined at lower temperatures where the line
shape has a very long, low amplitude, high field tail which is hard to
fit accurately. Another possibility is that an admixture of a square FLL
with the triangular lattice will deemphasize the tail relative to the
cusp region of the line shape,[30] with the result that fits to a pure
triangular lattice will overestimate the average field. A local
preference for a square lattice at twin boundaries is likely.[31] It is
plausible that in a d-wave superconductor[32] the vortex core might be
somewhat rosette shaped, rather than circular, and therefore be a source
of difficulty when fitting data with s-wave line shapes.

### Disorder in the FLL

As explained earlier, the experimental line shapes show appreciable
"smearing" relative to the theoretical line shapes; to mimic the effects
of (1) nuclear dipolar fields, (2) apodization preceding the Fourier
transform, and (3) the inherent disorder in the FLL, the theoretical
line shapes were convoluted with a Gaussian. Figure 15 shows the
convolution width (σ_(B)) after correcting (in quadrature) for the
linewidth above T_(c) (due to nuclear dipolar fields and a distribution
of Knight shifts) and for the Gaussian apodization used in the Fourier
transform ($\sigma_{\rm apod}^{-1}=2.5\,\mu$s for T ≤ 40 K,
corresponding to a width in the Fourier transform of 4.7 G, and
$\sigma_{\rm apod}^{-1}=3.0\,\mu$s for 50 ≥ T ≥ 75 K, corresponding to a
width of 3.9 G). The corrected convolution has a power-law temperature
dependence with an exponent of about 2 (see Table 1), which is very
similar to the behavior of the maximum and cusp fields shown in Fig. 14.
This qualitatively supports the assumption in Ref. [28] that σ_(B) ∝ λ⁻²
in lower fields.

Figure 16 shows an estimate of ⟨s²⟩^(1/2)/L, the square root of the mean
square of the deviation of each vortex from its ideal position in the
FLL as a fraction of the distance L between vortices, using σ_(B), B₀,
λ⁻², and H_(c2) in Eq. (4.3). The degree of disorder lies between about
5

Figure 16: Calculated values of ⟨s²⟩^(1/2)/L, the square root of the
mean square of the deviation of each vortex from its ideal position in
the FLL normalized by the distance L between vortices, due to random
compression for fields of 1.9 T (circles), 4.1 T (triangles), 4.7 T
(upside-down triangles), and 6.5 T (squares).

Figure 15: The convolution width (σ_(B)) in gauss from global fits,
after correction for the Gaussian apodization used in the Fourier
transform and width of the nuclear dipolar field distribution as
measured above T_(c), for fields of 1.9 T (circles), 4.1 T (triangles),
4.7 T (upside-down triangles), and 6.5 T (squares). The dashed lines are
fits to a power law (1.9 T top, 4.7 T bottom) (see Table 1).

and a spatial variation in the penetration depth. Because these factors
probably affect the line shape in similar ways and therefore cannot
easily be distinguished from the effects of local disorder in the FLL,
these values of ⟨s²⟩^(1/2)/L should be taken as upper limits. In
summary, ⟨s²⟩^(1/2)/L ≤ 5.5

Results of 89Y NMR experiments [33] in aligned YBa₂Cu₃O₇ with a field of
8.2 T applied parallel to the $\hat{\bf c}$ axis revealed thermal
diffusion of vortices at a rate 4 × 10⁻¹⁰exp (−E_(a)/T) cm²/s, with an
activation energy of E_(a) = 500 K; in that experiment it was assumed
that the NMR linewidth (due to the distribution of local fields) was
proportional to the magnetic penetration depth
$\lambda^{-2}\propto 1-\{T/T_{\rm c}\}^{p}$, with an exponent of p = 4.
If one assumes our value for the rms displacement of the vortices,
⟨s²⟩^(1/2)/L ≈ 5.5

## VIII Conclusions

We have measured the μ⁺SR line shape in single crystal YBa₂Cu₃O_(6.95)
in very high fields (${\bf B}_{0}\parallel\hat{\bf c}$) and have
observed the maximum field due to the vortex core for the first time in
any high-temperature superconductor. By simultaneously fitting several
runs taken in different applied fields at the same temperature, we have
been able to determine both λ_(ab)⁻²(T) and H_(c2)(T) ∝ ξ_(ab)⁻²(T). At
10 K, λ_(ab) = 0.15 ± 0.01 μm, ξ_(ab) ≈ 1.9 nm, and H_(c2) ≈ 90 T. The
temperature dependence of the magnetic penetration depth is consistent
with other data [28, 29] on similar crystals which do not show BCS
s-wave behavior and are more consistent with d-wave superconductivity.
[34] Due to the more subtle influence of ξ on the line shape, the
scatter in H_(c2)(T) ∝ ξ_(ab)⁻²(T), especially at low temperatures,
discourages any conclusions about its detailed temperature dependence;
however, within uncertainties κ ≡ λ/ξ appears to be temperature
independent.

While magnetic decoration experiments [35] can directly observe the FLL
and its disorder, they are restricted to very low fields, typically less
than 200 G. The degree of "smearing" of the μSR line shape, relative to
the theoretical line shape for a perfect FLL, allows one to estimate the
degree of disorder in any field accessible to μSR (up to about 6.5 T).
In YBa₂Cu₃O_(6.95), we have determined that the rms deviation of the
vortices from their ideal positions in the FLL is less than 5.5

This particularly exhaustive analysis of the μSR line shape in
YBa₂Cu₃O_(6.95) serves to buttress certain simplifying assumptions which
will aid future studies. First, our analysis confirms that the amount of
smearing is proportional to the linewidth for the ideal FLL
[σ_(B)(T) ∝ B_(C)(T) − B_(M)(T)], which is proportional to λ⁻²(T) in
lower fields. A much simpler analysis in terms of the linewidth alone
(e.g., conventional fits to simple Gaussian relaxation functions in the
time domain) should therefore be expected to yield meaningful results
for λ⁻²(T)/λ⁻²(0) at low fields and temperatures where the vortex cores
are negligible, as long as the sizes of the individual superconducting
crystals are not too small and all are aligned with their $\hat{\bf c}$
axes along the field; of course, such analyses will yield only a crude
qualitative estimate for the absolute value of λ(0).

Second, the simplest yet perhaps the most important result from this
high field experiment is that in YBa₂Cu₃O_(6.95) the Ginzburg-Landau
parameter κ_(ab) ≡ λ_(ab)/ξ_(ab) is constant with a value of 69.6 ± 1.4
over a large range of temperatures below the irreversibility
temperature, at least down to 30/K. (By contrast, magnetization
measurements [7, 8] of κ are restricted to the region between the
irreversibility temperature and $T_{\rm c}$, which is a narrow range in
YBa₂Cu₃O_(6.95).) This allows data to be taken at higher fields and
temperatures than the simple London model (κ ≫ 1 and ξ ≪ L) normally
allows and to be analyzed with the correct line shapes without an
inordinate amount of difficulty. However, one should not assume that all
samples have exactly the same absolute value for κ, since no studies
have been made of its dependence upon oxygen doping. If we presume that
YBa₂Cu₃O_(6.95) is a weak-coupling s-wave superconductor, the constancy
of κ serves as a consistency check for the way that the data was fit.
But such a presumption must be wrong, since the temperature dependence
of λ_(ab) seems to rule out s-wave superconductivity. [28] If we do not
assume any particular pairing state, our results demand that any theory
for the mechanism of superconductivity in YBa₂Cu₃O_(6.95) must predict a
constant (or very weakly varying) κ. Various combinations [34, 26, 27,
36, 37] of s-, d-, and p-wave pairing, impurity scattering, paramagnetic
contributions, and the degree of strong coupling can produce a vast
array of behavior in λ(T), H_(c2)(T), ξ(T), and κ(T), much of which has
not yet been calculated.

###### Acknowledgements.

This work was supported by the Natural Sciences and Engineering Research
Council of Canada, by the Canadian Institute for Advanced Research, and,
through TRIUMF, by the National Research Council of Canada. We
gratefully acknowledge the beam line calculations of V. Aseev, J.
Beveridge, and Jaap Doornbos and the technical assistance of K. Hoyle
and C. Ballard.

* [17] R. Liang _et al._, Physica C **195**, 51 (1992). * [18] J.H.
Brewer, Hyperfine Interact. **8**, 831 (1981). * [19] E. Holzschuh,
Phys. Rev. B **27**, 102 (1983). * [20] V. Aseev and J. Beveridge,
Design Note TRI-DN-92-1, TRIUMF, 4004 Wesbrook Mall, Vancouver, B.C.,
Canada, V6T 2A3 (unpublished). * [21] T.M. Riseman and J.H. Brewer,
Hyperfine Interact. **87**, 597 (1994). * [22] T.M. Riseman _et al._,
Hyperfine Interact. **87**, 481 (1994). * [23] R.F. Kiefl _et al._,
Physica C **153-155**, 757 (1988). * [24] Y.J. Uemura _et al._, Phys.
Rev. B **38**, R909 (1988). * [25] R. Parks, _Superconductivity_ (Marcel
Dekker, New York, 1969). * [26] J. Annett, N. Goldenfeld, and S. Renn,
Phys. Rev. B **43**, 2778 (1991). * [27] J.F. Annett, N. Goldenfeld, and
S. Renn, in _Physical Properties of High Temperature Superconductors
II_, edited by D. M. Ginsberg (World Scientific, Singapore, 1991), p.
571. * [28] J.E. Sonier _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **72**, 744 (1994). *
[29] W.N. Hardy _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **70**, 3999 (1993). * [30]
W. Fite and A.G. Redfield, Phys. Rev. Lett. **17**, 381 (1966). * [31]
M. Yethiraj _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **70**, 857 (1993). * [32] S. Yip
and J. Sauls, Phys. Rev. Lett. **69**, 2264 (1992). * [33] B. Suh, D.
Torgeson, and F. Borsa, Phys. Rev. Lett. **71**, 3011 (1993). * [34] N.
Bulut and D. Scalapino, Phys. Rev. B **45**, 2371 (1992). * [35] D.
Bishop, P. Gammel, D. Huse, and C. Murray, Science **255**, 165 (1992)
and references therein. * [36] M. Prohammer and J. Carbotte, Phys. Rev.
B **43**, 5370 (1991). * [37] M. Prohammer and J. Carbotte, Phys. Rev. B
**42**, 2032 (1990).
