# Study of some hydrogenated vanadium-based A15 compounds

S. Z. Huang, T. Skowkiewicz, and C. W. Chu

Department of Physics and Energy Laboratory, University of Houston,
Houston, Texas 770004

J. L. Smith

Los Alamos Scientific Laboratory, Los Alamos, New Mexico 87545

###### Abstract

The degrees of hydrogenation in V3Ga, V3Ge, and V3Si were determined.
The effects of hydrogen on the superconducting transition temperature
_T_c, the lattice parameter, and the pressure dependence of _T_c were
measured. The results will be discussed and compared with those of other
hydrogenated and radiation damaged A15 compounds.

## 1 Introduction

The influence of defects on the properties of high-temperature A15
superconductors has been an active area of research in the past few
years.1 Independent of their origins, defects are found to cause a
universal degradation2,3 of the superconducting transition temperature
_T_c, an expansion3 of the lattice parameter a0 and the removal4,5 of
the normal-state anomalies which are often characteristics of a
high-_T_c superconductor. Because of the reversible effects of
irradiation, studies on the irradiated compounds have provided valuable
data correlating the universal _T_c degradation with the reduction in
long-range order1,2 and the subsequent modifications6,7 in the electron
band structure due to defects. Unfortunately, the high level of
radioactivity of the irradiated samples has made difficult the
experiments from which microscopic information can be extracted. As a
result, our current understanding1 of the defect effect on
high-temperature superconductivity remains macroscopic.

Recently, quite similar to defects introduced by irradiation, hydrogen
was found to generate reversibly a large reduction of _T_c and an
expansion of a0 in Nb3Sn (Ref. 4) and Nb3Ge (Ref. 8), and the arrest of
the low-temperature structural transformation in the former.4 In view of
the nonradioactive nature of and the locatability of the H atom in a
hydrogenated compound, a systematic study on the hydrogenated A15
compounds is particularly appealing. Therefore we have investigated the
hydrogenation in V3Ga, V3Ge, and V3Si. Due to the lower atomic number V,
these V-based hydrogenated A15 compounds are more suitable than the
Nb-based ones for our future near-edge x-ray absorption study9 where the
role of local symmetry recently suggested10 in high-temperature
superconductivity can be evaluated and the microscopic information about
the electronic structure of the compounds obtained.

We have found that: (1) Under our experimental conditions, the maximum
hydrogen uptakes in V3Ga are   38 and   140 times those in V3Ge and
V3Si, respectively; (2) a large _T_c suppression occurs in V3Ga and V3Ge
but not in V3Si; and (3) the pressure coefficient of _T_c of V3Ga is
independent of the H concentration. A hydride phase in V3Ga is also
suggested in the high H concentration region. The results will be
discussed and the effects of hydrogenation and irradiation compared.

## 2 Experimental

The starting A15 compounds of V3M with M = Ga, Ge, and Si were prepared
by arc melting the constituents in an argon atmosphere many times to
enhance the homogeneity. For V3Ga, the total weight loss was determined
to be 0.8

The lattice parameter a0 was determined with a Debye-Scherrer camera
using the Cu K a radiation. The uncertainty in a0 was obtained to be
+-0.001 A by a cos2_th_ extrapolation. The superconducting transition
was detected by a standard ac inductance bridge operating at 28 Hz. The
temperature was determined by a Ge thermometer. High-pressure
measurements were carried out by a self-clamp technique11 with a 1:1
_n_-pentane and isoamyl alcohol solution. The pressure at low
temperature was determined by a superconducting Pb manometer.

## III Results

Within our experimental ranges, the amount of hydrogen in V3_M_H_x was
found to increase with the temperature and the hydrogen pressure at
which hydrogenation took place. The maximum _x_’s in V3_M_H_x obtained
by heating V3M at 580deg C under 150 bar of H2 atmosphere (our maximum
temperature and pressure for hydrogenation) for M = Ga, Ge, and Si are
1.96, 0.054, and 0.014 corresponding to 32.9, 1.39, and 0.35 at.

In Fig. 1, _T_c is shown as a function of both x and a0 for V3_GaH_x,
where the solid and dashed vertical bars represent the transition
widths, respectively, during H charging and discharging, the upper
horizontal bars the uncertainties in a0 and the lower horizontal bars
the uncertainties in x. As displayed in Fig. 1, for x < 0.4, _T_c
decreases rapidly and almost linearly at a rate of 0.7 K / [H] (at.

Figure 1: The x and a0 dependences of the _T_c of V3GaH_x during H
charging (solid vertical bars) and H discharging (dashed vertical bars).
The upper horizontal bar represents the uncertainty in a0, the lower one
the uncertainty in x. The arrow stands for the absence of
superconductivity above the temperature indicated.

dependencies of T_(ϵ) for V${}_{\rm J}$GeH${}_{\rm x}$ are given in Fig.
3, where the notations used are similar to those in Fig. 1. For the case
of V${}_{\rm J}$SiH${}_{\rm x}$, no shift of T_(ϵ) beyond our
experimental resolution of ± 0.005 K was detected at the maximum x of
0.014 together with an a₀ expansion of 0.002 A.

The pressure effects on the T_(ϵ) of three V${}_{\rm J}$GaH${}_{\rm x}$
were determined up to 18 kbar. At atmospheric pressure, their T_(ϵ)’s
are, respectively, 15.3, 9.9, and 8.1 K for x = 0, 0.24, and 0.37. The
pressure-induced shifts in T_(ϵ) are shown in Fig. 4 as a function of
pressure. It is clear to see that pressure enhances the T_(ϵ) at a rate
of 0.81 x 10⁻⁵ K bar⁻¹ for all samples investigated, independent of x.

## IV Discussion

For later comparison, we have summarized in Table 1 some data on the
hydrogenated and irradiated V${}_{\rm J}$Ga, V${}_{\rm J}$Ge,
V${}_{\rm J}$Si, Nb${}_{\rm J}$Ge, and Nb${}_{\rm J}$Sn.

In spite of the close similarity among V${}_{\rm J}$Ga, V${}_{\rm J}$Ge,
and V${}_{\rm J}$Si, there exists a large variation in the amounts of
hydrogen that can dissolve in these compounds under the same conditions.
For instance, the maximum x’s obtained in V${}_{\rm J}$GaH${}_{\rm x}$
are ∼ -38 and ∼ 140 times those in V${}_{\rm J}$GeH${}_{\rm x}$ and
V${}_{\rm J}$SiH${}_{\rm x}$, respectively, under the most favorable
conditions of ours. Therefore, the susceptibility S of these compounds
to hydrogenation decreases in the order of V${}_{\rm J}$Ga,
V${}_{\rm J}$Ge, and V${}_{\rm J}$Si. Earlier, it was noticed[8] that
hydrogenation took place much more easily in Nb${}_{\rm J}$Ge than in
Nb${}_{\rm J}$Sn. As shown in Table 1 we find that such a trend of S
variation is also followed by the rate of percentage increase of a₀ due
to hydrogenation in both the V- and Nb-based systems; i.e., S increases
as Δa₀/a₀ per at.

c c c c c c & V${}_{\rm J}$Ga & V${}_{\rm J}$Ge & V${}_{\rm J}$Si &
Nb${}_{\rm J}$Ge & Nb${}_{\rm J}$Sn
T_(ϵ0)^(⋆)(K) & 15.3a & 6.1a & 16.1a & 22 & 18
a₀(Å) & 4.819a & 4.782a & 4.723a & 5.133b & 5.290c
$\Delta T/[{\rm H}]$(K/[H]) (at. %) & 0.7a & 0.4a & < 0.01a & 0.6b &
0.5c
Δa/a₀[H]%/[H] (at. %) & 0.091a & 0.072a & 0.012a & 0.108b & 0.046
Δa₀/a₀[%/[H]¹⁰8a(cm⁻²)) & … & >0.57a & 0.57d & 10.0d & 4.29d
Δa₀/a₀[%/[H]¹⁰8a(cm⁻²)) & … & … & … & … & … & …

Table 1: Some information about the hydrogenated and irradiated
V${}_{\rm J}$Ga, V${}_{\rm J}$Ge, V${}_{\rm J}$Si, Nb${}_{\rm J}$Ge, and
Nb${}_{\rm J}$Sn. • stands for T_(ϵ) for unhydrogenated samples.

Figure 4: The pressure-induced shifts of T_(ϵ) in
V${}_{\rm J}$GaH${}_{\rm x}$ as a function of pressure.

up more readily to accomodate the large H atom. This seems to be
consistent with the observation that S is larger for V3M with larger a0
as shown in Table I. Unfortunately, such a _S_-_a_0 correlation is no
longer valid for Nb3Ge and Nb3Sn. Since the tetrahedral sites are less
closely packed than the octahedral sites in an A15 structure, the former
are more likely to be occupied by the dissolved H atoms. It is also
clear from Table I that the a0 increase rate induced by a or n
irradiation also varies in the same fashion as that induced by
hydrogenation. In view of the metallurgical difficulties involved in
preparing a stoichiometry and defect free V3Ga or Nb3Ge, the large
susceptibility of hydrogenation or irradiation induced defect formation
may be associated with the high metastability of the compounds. Whether
the large S is caused by the enhanced trapping8 of H or by the inherent
defects of a metastable compound is yet to be proved. In this respect,
it should be noted that the rate of _n_-induced _T_c degradation was
previously observed to increase continuously in V3Ga_(x)(Ref. [13]) for
x varying from <1 to >1, but to pass a maximum1 in Nb3Al_(x) and
Nb3Pt_(x) at x = 1. No correlation of S with _T_c or a0 of the
unhydrogenated A15 compounds was found. The extreme difficulty to obtain
x between 0.4 and 1.4 in V3GaH_(x) (see Fig. 2) leads us to the
suggestion of the possible existence of a hydride phase.

As shown in Table I the rate of _T_c suppression by hydrogen at the
low-concentration region is about the same for the hydrogenated V3Ga,
V3Ge, Nb3Ge, and Nb3Sn ranging from 0.4 to 0.7 K/[H] (at.

Studies on defected A15 high-_T_c compounds except Mo3Ge (Ref. [14]),
which has a very low density of states, have revealed two simple
universal _T_c-_a_0(Ref. [15]) and _T_c-RR3[resistivity ratio (RR)]
correlations; i.e., _T_c increases with a0 decrease and RR increase,
independent of the origin of defects which causes the changes in a0 and
RR. According to these correlations, pressure should always enhance _T_c
and the rate of _T_c enhancement should be larger for samples with lower
_T_c. However, study16 on the sputtered Nb-Ge thin films with a wide
range of _T_c, caused by varying the deposition conditions of the films,
yields results in complete defiance of the predictions; i.e., pressure
always suppresses _T_c at a decreasing rate with _T_c decrease. Although
we have observed in the present investigation that pressure always
enhances _T_c of V3GaH_(x), the rate of _T_c enhancement remains
unexpectedly constant, independent of x (see Fig. 4). This confirms the
suggestion16 that defects do not affect _T_c through the accompanying
volume expansion. It also demonstrates that, in spite of the
insensitivity of the _T_c degradation to the origin of imperfections,
differentiation does exist between imperfections introduced by
hydrogenation and variation in sample preparation conditions. In fact,
insofar as the annealing recovery of _T_c is concerned, the _T_c
degradation of the hydrogenated and irradiated compounds is reversible,
whereas that of the compounds prepared under conditions other than
optimum are not. For instance, one has not been able to raise the low
_T_c of a defected Nb3Ge sample prepared under nonoptimal conditions. To
understand such difference is one of the most challenging problems in
the study of high-_T_c compounds. Further study on defected samples due
to hydrogenation and irradiation will be very helpful. Preliminary
investigation17 on the near edge _x_-ray absorption of V3GaH_(x) seems
to indicate that, within the experimental resolution of a few eV, large
electronic structure changes occur only in V sites but not in Ga sites.

## V Conclusion

We have studied the hydrogenation in V3Ga, V3Ge, and V3Si. The
susceptibility S to hydrogenation was found to decrease rapidly in the
order of V3Ga, V3Ge, and V3Si. At the same time, S increases with
increasing rate of the a0 expansion due to hydrogenation. The same is
true for the hydrogenated Nb3Ge and Nb3Sn. The large S may be related to
the high metastability of the compounds. The irradiation induced
a0-expansion rate varies with compounds in the same fashion as the
hydrogenation induced rate of a0 expansion. The results of this study
also suggest the possible existence of a hydride phase of V3GaH_(x) for
x 1.4.

Although hydrogen was found to rapidly suppress the _T_c of V3Ga and
V3Ge, no effect was detected in V3Si. This is consistent with the
suggestion that _T_c of a nearly perfect V3Si depends less sensitively
on the electron density of states at the Fermi energy. Specific-heat
measurements on V3SiH_(x) are planned.

The pressure was found to enhance the _T_c of V3GaH_(x) at a constant
rate, independent of x although the accompanying _T_c ranges from 8.1 to
15.3 K. The reason is still unknown. However, comparison of the present
results with those on the Nb-Ge sputtered thin films suggests that
defects due to hydrogenation and irradiation may play a different role
in high temperature superconductivity from those due to the variation in
sample preparation conditions. A near edge x-ray-absorption
investigation to assess the role of hydrogen in V₃Ga is currently under
way. Preliminary results indicate that changes occur only at the V
sites.

###### Acknowledgements.

The work at the University of Houston is supported in part by the NSF
Grant No. 79-08486 and the Energy Laboratory. Research at Los Alamos is
sponsored by the U. S. DOE.

## References

* [1] For a summary, see A. R. Sweedler, D. E. Cox, and S. Moehlecke, J.
Nucl. Mater. 72, 50 (1978). * [2] A. R. Sweedler, D. Cox, D. G.
Schweitzer, and G. W. Webb, IEEE Trans. Magn. 11, 163 (1975), and
references therein. * [3] J. M. Poate, L. R. Testardi, A. R. Storm, and
W. M. Augustyniak, Phys. Rev. Lett. 35, 1290 (1975); R. C. Dynes, J. M.
Poate, L. R. Testardi, A. R. Storm, and R. H. Hammond, IEEE Trans. Magn.
13, 640 (1977), and references therein. * [4] L. J. Vieland, A. W.
Wicklund, and J. G. White, Phys. Rev. B 11, 3311 (1975). * [5] L. R.
Testardi, J. M. Poate, and H. J. Levinstein, Phys. Rev. B 15, 2570
(1977). * [6] H. Wiesmann, M. Gurvitch, A. K. Ghosh, H. Lutz, O. F.
Kammerer, and M. Strongin, Phys. Rev. B 17, 122 (1978); L. R. Testardi
and L. F. Mattheiss, Phys. Rev. Lett. 41, 1612 (1978). * [7] S. Z.
Huang, C. W. Chu, and C. S. Ting, Phys. Rev. B 20, 2971 (1979). * [8] W.
A. Landford, P. H. Schmidt, J. M. Rowell, J. M. Poate, R. C. Dynes, and
P. D. Dernier, Appl. Phys. Lett. 32, 339 (1978). * [9] H. W. Huang _et
al._ (unpublished). * [10] C. W. Chu, in _High Pressure and Low
Temperature Physics_, edited by C. W. Chu and A. J. Woollain (Plenum,
New York, 1978), p. 359; M. Weger, _ibid._, p. 389. * [11] C. W. Chu, T.
F. Smith, and W. E. Gardner, Phys. Rev. Lett. 20, 198 (1968). * [12] T.
F. Smith, J. Low Temp. Phys. 6, 171 (1972). * [13] T. L. Francavilla, B.
N. Das, D. U. Gubser, R. A. Meussner, and S. T. Sekula, J. Nucl. Mater.
72, 203 (1978). * [14] M. Gurvitch, A. K. Ghosh, B. L. Gyorffy, H. Lutz,
O. F. Kammerer, J. S. Rosner, and Myron Strongin, Phys. Rev. Lett. 41,
1616 (1978). * [15] J. Noolandi and L. R. Testardi, Phys. Rev. B 11,
5462 (1977). * [16] C. W. Chu, L. R. Testardi, and P. H. Schmidt, Solid
State Commun. 23, 814 (1977). * [17] H. W. Huang, S. Z. Huang, and C. W.
Chu (unpublished).
