# Superconducting state in YSn₃ with a AuCu₃-type structure

K. Kawashima, M. Maruyama, M. Fukuma, and J. Akimitsu

Department of Physics and Mathematics, Aoyama Gakuin University,
Fuchinobe 5-10-1, Sagamihara, Kanagawa 229-8558, Japan

Received 23 February 2010; revised manuscript received 10 June 2010;
published 23 September 2010

###### Abstract

In this paper, the superconducting properties of YSn₃ are reported. YSn₃
has a cubic AuCu₃-type structure with the space group $Pm\overline{3}m$.
Magnetic susceptibility, electrical resistivity, and specific-heat data
showed that YSn₃ is a superconductor with a superconducting transition
temperature ($T_{\rm c}$) of 7 K. The magnetization versus magnetic
field (M-H) curve shows the typical type-II superconducting behavior.
The estimated lower critical field $H_{\rm c1}(0)$ and the upper
critical field $H_{\rm c2}(0)$ are about 90 Oe and 3000 Oe,
respectively. The penetration depth λ(0) and coherence length ξ(0) are
calculated to be approximately 270 nm and 66 nm, respectively, using the
Ginzburg-Landau equations. The estimated Sommerfeld coefficient
$\gamma_{\rm S}$ is 7.57 mJ/mol K². The normalized specific heat jump
$\Delta C/\gamma_{\rm N}T_{\rm c}$ is estimated to be about 2.19, which
is higher than the value predicted by the BCS theory in the
weak-coupling limit, i.e., $\Delta C/\gamma_{\rm N}T_{\rm c}$=1.43. This
fact indicates that superconductivity in YSn₃ exists in the
strong-coupling regime. The difference between $T_{\rm c}$ of LnX₃
(X=family of 13 or 14 elements) compounds is discussed to compare their
physical properties.

pacs: DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.82.094517 + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL
REVIEW B **82**, 094517 (2010)

## I Introduction

High-pressure synthesis techniques have been successfully employed in
the search for new materials including superconductor in intermetallic
compounds and oxides [1, 2, 3] and enhanced $T_{\rm c}$ value for
superconductor. [4] The difference in the size of the atoms in a unit
cell may be the primary cause of instability of the crystal structure of
some intermetallic compounds. The application of a high pressure can
change the relative atomic size. Using closed system for high-pressure
synthesis is effective not only for stabilizing a composition but also
for expanding a solid-solution range.

LnSn₃ (Ln= Y and rare-earth elements) compounds are crystallized in a
cubic AuCu₃-type structure (space group: $Pm\overline{3}m$). There are
some reports on LnSn₃ (Ln=light rare-earth element series=La-Gd). [5, 6,
7] For example, LaSn₃ has been reported to exhibit superconductivity at
around 6.25 K. [8] PrSn₃ and NdSn₃ have been found to order
antiferromagnetically at $T_{\rm N}$=8.6 K and 4.5 K, respectively. [9]
Moreover, PrSn₃ has been reported to be a heavy-Fermion compound. [10]
CeSn₃ is categorized as a dense Kondo compound with valence fluctuation.
[11] In contrast, there are very few reports on the heavy rare earth
series (Ln=Tb-Lu) and Y. An experiment has been conducted by Miller and
Hall [12] to synthesize heavy rare-earth element trisantanide compounds
using a high-pressure technique, where in LnSn₃ (Ln=Tb, Dy, Ho, Er, and
Y) compounds were successfully obtained. YbSn₃ single crystals have been
synthesized by the Bridgman technique. [13] YbSn₃ shows a
superconducting transition at around 3.6 K. [14] TbSn₃ and YSn₃ have
been synthesized at P=1−7 GPa and T=400 ^(∘)C−1300 ^(∘)C. These two
compounds also have a cubic AuCu₃-type structure with a lattice constant
a =0.466 nm and 0.467 nm, and a density of 8.45 g/cm³ and 7.27 g/cm³,
respectively. [15]

We focused on Ln=nonmagnetic atoms compound YSn₃. To the best of our
knowledge, the physical properties of YSn₃ have not been elucidated thus
far. We synthesized a polycrystalline samples of YSn₃ using a
high-pressure technique and discovered that YSn₃ is a superconductor
with $T_{\rm c}$ of 7 K. We performed electrical resistivity, magnetic
susceptibility, and specific-heat measurements to determine the
superconducting parameters of YSn₃

In this paper, we report the superconducting properties and
superconducting parameters of yttrium trisantnide YSn₃ prepared under a
high pressure. Further, we discuss the difference between $T_{\rm c}$ of
LnX₃ (X=family of 13 or 14 elements) compounds.

## II Experimental details

A mixture of yttrium (99.9

The synthesized sample was analyzed by powder x-ray diffraction using a
conventional x-ray spectrometer with a graphite monochromator
(RINT-1000, RIGAKU). The color of the powdered sample was dark gray.
Intensity data were collected with Cu Kα radiation over a 2 θ range of
10^(∘)−80^(∘) with a step width of 0.02^(∘). Electrical resistivity
measurements were performed using the conventional dc four probe method
(physical property measurement system (PPMS), Quantum Design) at
temperature from 2 to 300 K in an applied magnetic field of up to 10
kOe. The sample dimensions for resistivity measurements were 2 mm×1.9 mm
× 1.6 mm. Electrical leads were fabricated by spot welding gold wires
(_ph_25 μm) onto a polished surface of the sample. Magnetic measurements
were performed by using a superconducting quantum interference device
magnetometer (magnetic property measurement system (MPMS)-R2, Quantum
Design) at temperatures between 2 and 15 K in an applied magnetic field
of up to 3 kOe. The measurements were carried out upon warming after
zero-field cooling (ZFC process) and cooling in the field (FC process).
Specific-heat measurement was performed using the PPMS system (Quantum
Design) in a temperature range between 0.4 and 15 K. The sample
dimensions for specific-heat measurement were about 1.5 mm×1.5 mm×2 mm.

YSn₃ decomposes into metallic tin within 2 weeks.[12] The synthesized
sample also decomposed in air. After synthesis, the sample was placed in
Ar atmosphere to prevent its decomposition. The sample quality was
checked one week after the synthesis. The results of powder x-ray
diffraction showed that the bulk sample did not decompose and this
sample exhibited a sharp superconducting transition. Consequently, the
physical properties of the sample were measured within 5 days of the
sample synthesis.

## III Results and Discussion

Figure 1 shows the powder x-ray diffraction (PXRD) pattern of
synthesized YSn₃ obtained at room temperature. The main phase is indexed
as a cubic unit cell with the space group of $Pm\overline{3}m$. There
are extra reflections, which belong to the impurity phase, identified as
Sn. This result is consistent with that obtained in previous works.[12,
17] From the intensity data from the PXRD measurement, refinement is
performing to account for an admixture of Sn phase, whose weight
fraction was refined to be ≈39

The temperature dependence of dc magnetic susceptibility under a
magnetic field of 10 Oe is shown in Fig. 2. Figure 2 shows a large
diamagnetic response at around 7 K, suggesting the occurrence of
superconductivity, both in ZFC and FC processes. In the yttrium-tin
system, intermetallic compounds having the following formulas have been
identified: Y₅Sn₃ (hexagonal Mn₃Si₃-type structure), Y₅Sn₄ (orthorhombic
Sm₃Ge₄-type structure), Y₁₁Sn₁₀ (tetragonal Ho₁₁Ge₁₀-type structure),
YSn₂ (orthorhombic ZrSi₂-type structure), and YSn₃ (cubic AuCu₃-type
structure).[16, 19] The powder x-ray diffraction pattern of our sample
shows that the sample includes YSn₃ as the main phase and Sn as the
impurity phase. There are no additional peaks in the x-ray diffraction
data. It is concluded that the large Meissner response at around 7 K
originated from YSn₃ superconductor. A weak anomaly is confirmed in the
ZFC data of magnetic susceptibility at around 3.8 K. This anomaly is
caused by the contribution of the superconductivity of the impurity
phase of Sn, whose $T_{\rm c}$ is 3.7 K.

The temperature dependence of electrical resistivity is shown in Fig. 3.
The electrical resistivity data show a metallic behavior with the
residual resistivity ratio (RRR): ρ_(300 K)/ρ₀∼ 13 (ρ₀ is the residual
resistivity at $T_{\rm c}^{onset}$). The onset superconducting
transition temperature ($T_{\rm c}^{onset}$) is about 7.3 K and zero
resistivity is confirmed at around 7 K. The superconducting transition
point is consistent with the data of magnetic susceptibility. From the
results of magnetic susceptibility and electrical resistivity
measurements, $T_{\rm c}$ is determined to be 7 K.

Figure 4 shows the magnetic field dependence of the magnetization of
YSn₃ measured at various temperatures. The data in the inset of Fig.
4(a) shows a hysteresis, indicating that YSn₃ is a type-II
superconductor. The lower critical field $H_{\rm cl}(T)$ was determined
from the magnetic field versus magnetization (M-H) curve measured at
various temperatures. As shown in Fig. 4(a), $H_{\rm cl}(T)$ was defined
as a magnetic field at which the diamagnetic magnetization deviates from
a linear relation with the magnetic field. Figure 4(b) shows
$H_{\rm cl}(T)$ as a function of $(T/T_{\rm c})^{2}$. $H_{\rm cl}(T)$
was fitted by the relation

Figure 2: (Color online) Temperature dependence of magnetic
susceptibility of synthesized YSn₃ in magnetic field of 10 Oe. ZFC and
FC data are measured upon warming in a field after cooling in a zero
field and by cooling in a field, respectively.

Figure 1: (Color online) Powder x-ray diffraction pattern of synthesized
YSn₃ sample. The inset shows the crystal structure of YSn₃. The solid
line in the inset shows the unit cell of YSn₃. [The program vesta was
used to draw crystal structure (Ref. 18)]

$$H_{\rm c1}(T)=H_{\rm c1}(0)[1-(T/T_{\rm c})^{2}]$$
(1)

using the Ginzburg-Landau (GL) theory, where $H_{\rm c1}(0)$ is
$H_{\rm c1}$ at 0 K. $H_{\rm c1}(0)$ was determined to be about 90 Oe.
The penetration depth λ(0) was calculated to be approximately 270 nm
from the relation, $\mu_{0}H_{\rm c1}\sim\phi_{0}/\pi\lambda^{2}$, where
μ₀ and ϕ₀ are the magnetic permeability of the vacuum and quantum flux,
respectively.

Figure 5 shows the temperature dependence of electrical resistivity
under different magnetic fields up to 3000 Oe. $T_{\rm c}$ and
$H_{\rm c}(0)$ values for Sn are 3.7 K and about 300 Oe, respectively.
There is no influence of the impurity phase, Sn, on these resistivity
data. The magnetic fields were applied above $T_{\rm c}$, and the data
were obtained upon cooling. $T_{\rm c}^{onset}$ and zero resistivity
temperature ($T_{\rm c}^{zero}$) shift to lower temperatures as the
magnetic field increases. The transition widths remain almost unchanged
up to high magnetic fields. $T_{\rm c}$ is determined at a 50

Figure 6 shows the _H-T_ phase diagram of the superconducting state of
YSn₃. The electrical resistivities are measured under various magnetic
fields for two different samples. The data show a linear temperature
dependence at temperatures between 3 K and near $T_{\rm c}$. The
gradient $dH_{\rm c2}/dT$ at around $T_{\rm c}$ is found to be about
−600 Oe/K. On the basis of the relation
$H_{\rm c2}\sim-0.69\times(dH_{\rm c2}/dT)\times T_{\rm c}$ for a
type-II superconductor in the dirty limit [20, 21], the $H_{\rm c2}(0)$
value is found to be about 3000 Oe. From these data, ξ(0) value is
calculated to be ∼66 nm using the relation $H_{\rm c2}(0)$ =Φ₀/2 πξ²,
where Φ₀ is the flux quantum. The GL parameter $\kappa_{\rm GL}$ is
estimated to be 4.1 using the relation $\kappa_{\rm GL}$=λ/ξ.

Figure 4: (Color online) (a) Magnetic field dependence of magnetization
(M-H curve) of synthesized YSn₃ at various temperatures. The inset of
Fig. 4(a) shows the M-H curve at a high magnetic field. (b) Lower
critical field $H_{\rm c1}$ as a function of $(T/T_{\rm c})^{2}$. The
dotted line shows a linear fit to Eq. (1).

Figure 5: (Color online) Temperature dependences of electrical
resistivity (measuring current I=1 mA) of synthesized YSn₃ at various
magnetic fields.

Figure 3: (Color online) Temperature dependence of zero-field electrical
resistivity (measuring current I=5 mA) of synthesized YSn₃. The inset
shows an enlarged view of the plot in a low-temperature range (T≤10 K).

Figure 7 shows the temperature dependence of the electronic specific
heat $C_{\rm el}$ of YSn₃ at H = 0 Oe. The inset of Fig. 7 shows the
normal-state specific heat obtained by applying a magnetic field H = 20
kOe ≫_H_${}_{\rm c2}$. At H = 0 Oe, specific-heat data show the bulk
superconducting feature as indicated by the clear jump of $C_{\rm P}$ at
around $T_{\rm c}$. $T_{\rm c}$ of 7 K determined from the midpoint of
the specific-heat jump is consistent with the value obtained from the
other measurements. At H = 20 kOe, the specific heat jump is completely
suppressed, resulting in the disappearance of superconductivity in YSn₃.
A clear deviation from the Debye T³ law is observed in the normal state
$C_{\rm P}$, which can be attributed to the contribution of the
low-lying Einstein phonon modes.[22]

In order to take into account the normal state $C_{\rm ph}$ (lattice
part), we fitted the data obtained at H = 20 kOe by a polynomial

$$C_{\rm P}/T = (C_{\rm el} + C_{\rm ph})/T = \gamma_{\rm N} + \beta T^{2} + \delta T^{4}$$

with the Sommerfeld coefficient of the normal-state specific heat
$\gamma_{\rm N}$ and the coefficient of the phononic contribution β and
δ as adjustable parameters. β is related to the Debye temperature
$\theta_{\rm D}(0)$ via $\beta = (12/5)N\pi^{4}R\theta_{\rm D}^{3}$,
where R = 8.314 J/mol K denotes the gas constant and N = 4 is the number
of atoms per formula unit for YSn₃. We carefully subtracted the
contribution of Sn to the total sample capacity.[23] From this fit, we
deduced $\gamma_{\rm N}$=7.57 mJ/mol K2, β = 0.83 mJ/mol K4, and
δ = 0.01 mJ/mol K6. We calculated the corresponding Debye temperature
$\theta_{\rm D}$ to be approximately 210 K.

In the superconducting state, the electronic specific heat $C_{\rm el}$
of YSn₃ can be obtained after subtracting the phononic contribution from
the total specific heat:
$C_{\rm el} = C_{\rm P}^{XSn_{3}}$-$C_{\rm ph}$. $C_{\rm ph}$ data are
obtained from the fitting result of Eq. (2). The normalized
specific-heat jump $\Delta C/\gamma_{\rm N}T_{\rm c}$ is calculated to
be about 2.19 using $\gamma_{\rm N}$=7.57 mJ/mol K2 and $T_{\rm c}$=7 K.
For the weak-coupling limit of the BCS theory,
$\Delta C/\gamma_{\rm N}T_{\rm c}$ is 1.43.[24] The calculated
$\Delta C/\gamma_{\rm N}T_{\rm c}$ value is higher than that predicted
by the BCS theory in the weak-coupling limit, clearly indicating
enhanced electron-phonon coupling strength.

Here, we compare YSn₃ superconductor with other _LnX₃_(_Ln_ = La, Yb,
and Y, X = family of 13 elements of In3+ and Tl3+ or family of 14
elements of Sn4+ and Pb4+) superconductors with a AuCu₃-type structure
to elucidate the superconducting state of _LnX₃_.

The compounds YIn₃, YTl₃, and YPb₃ have been found to exhibit
superconductivity with $T_{\rm c}$ of 0.78 K, 1.5 K, and 4.72 K,
respectively. $T_{\rm c}$ of _LnX₃_ compounds with X = family of 14
elements of Sn4+ and Pb4+ is higher than that of _LnX₃_ compounds with X
= family of 13 elements of In3+ and Tl3+.[25, 26] YSn₃ has the highest
$T_{\rm c}$ in the YX₃ system, similar to other _LnX₃_ compounds. A
previous study showed that $T_{\rm c}$ depends on the concentration of
valence electrons, _n.[27]_$T_{\rm c}$ becomes relatively high near n =
3.75, e.g., in YPb₃, LaSn₃, and LaPb₃ ($T_{\rm c}$=4.1 K), and decreases
rapidly with increasing concentration of X = family of 13 element of
In3+ or Tl3+ in the _Ln_(In_(1 − x)Sn_(x))₃, _Ln_(Tl_(1 − x)Pb_(x))₃,
and _Ln_(In_(1 − x)Pb_(x))₃ systems. However, compounds with 0.5 ≤_x_
(3.5 ≤_n_) in the Y(In_(1 − x)Sn_(x))₃ system could not be synthesized
because high-pressure synthesis was not used. $T_{\rm c}$ of
Y(In_(1 − x)Sn_(x))₃ increases slowly from 0.78 K ∼1.9 K with increasing
Sn4+ concentration. The n vs $T_{\rm c}$ diagram for the
Y(In_(1 − x)Sn_(x))₃ system is obtained in the present study.

The difference between $T_{\rm c}$ of the compounds of _LnX₃_ for
_X_=family of 13 elements of In3+ and Tl3+ and for X = family of 14
elements of Sn4+ and Pb4+ is clearly related to the density of state
from the X site ion. Although the Sommerfeld constant $\gamma_{\rm N}$
of _Ln_Pb₃ compounds is larger than that of _Ln_Sn₃, $T_{\rm c}$ of
_Ln_Pb₃ compounds is lower than that of _Ln_Sn₃ compounds in _LnX₃_ (_X_
= family of 14 elements) compounds with n = 3.75. Consequently, phononic
contribution such as the Debye frequency and electron-phonon coupling
strength to the superconducting state are mainly responsible for the
difference in $T_{\rm c}$ of _LnX₃_ compounds for X = family of 14
elements. Figure 8 shows $T_{\rm c}$ of _LnX₃_ for _X_=family of 14
elements of Sn4+ and Pb4+ compounds as a function of each lattice
constant a. The lattice constant a of the compounds of _LnX₃_ for
_X_=family of 14 elements with n = 3.75, YSn₃, YPb₃, LaSn₃, and LaPb₃
($T_{\rm c}$=4.1 K) is 0.467 nm, 0.481 nm, 0.477 nm, and 0.491 nm,
respectively. YSn₃ has the highest $T_{\rm c}$ among the compounds of
_LnX₃_ for _X_=family of

Figure 7: (Color online) Temperature dependence of electronic specific
heat of YSn₃. The inset shows the normal-state specific heat under a
magnetic field H of 20 kOe as a function of temperature. The solid line
shows a fit to the experimental data using the Debye formula [Eq. (2)].

14 elements. $T_{\rm c}$ increases with the decreasing lattice constant.
The phononic contribution to the superconducting state is enhanced with
the decreasing lattice constant and atomic distance for _Ln-Ln_, _Ln-X_,
and _X-X_.

## IV Conclusions

In this paper, the superconducting properties of YSn₃ with a AuCu₃-type
structure are reported. The data for the superconducting state are
obtained from electrical resistivity, dc magnetic susceptibility, and
specific-heat measurements. A superconducting transition is confirmed at
around 7 K and a specific-heat anomaly is clearly observed at
$T_{\rm c}$ indicating the bulk nature of superconductivity. The _M-H_
curve at 4 K for YSn₃ shows the typical type-II superconducting
behavior. The estimated $H_{\rm c1}(0)$ value is about 90 Oe. The
penetration depth λ is calculated to be approximately 270 nm. The _H-T_
phase diagram is also obtained. The upper critical field $H_{\rm c2}(0)$
is estimated to be ∼3000 Oe using the Werthamer-Helfand-Hohenberg (WHH)
prediction. The coherence length is calculated to be about ξ=66 nm. The
normalized specific-heat jump $\Delta C/\gamma T_{\rm c}$ is estimated
to be about 2.19, which is higher than 1.43, the value predicted by the
BCS theory. The determined superconducting parameters are listed in
Table I. The electron-phonon coupling strength for superconductivity in
YSn₃ is in the strong-coupling regime. $T_{\rm c}$ systematically
changes with the decreasing lattice constant of the superconductor of
_LnX₃_ with _X_=family of 14 elements. It is concluded that the
difference between $T_{\rm c}$ of _LnX₃_ compounds can be attributed to
the difference in the phononic contribution to the superconducting
state.

## Acknowledgments

This work was partially supported by a Grant-in-Aid for Scientific
Research, a Grant-in-Aid for Specially Promoted Research, and the
Private University High-Tech Research Center Program funded by the
Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology, Japan.

## References

* [*] Kawaken@phys.aoyama.ac.jp * [1] S. Yamanaka, E. Enishi, H.
Fukuoka, and M. Yasukawa, Inorg. Chem. **39**, 56 (2000). * [2] H.
Fukuoka and S. Yamanaka, Phys. Rev. B **67**, 094501 (2003). * [3] Z.
Hiroi, N. Kobayashi, and M. Takano, Nature (London) **371**, 139
(1994). * [4] G. Amano, S. Akutagawa, T. Muranaka, Y. Zenitani, and J.
Akimitsu, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **73**, 530 (2004). * [5] A. Rossi, Atti
Accad. Naz. Lincei, Cl. Sci. Fis., Mat. Nat., Rend. **17**, 839
(1933). * [6] E. Zintl and S. Neumayr, Z. Elektrochem. Angew. Phys.
Chem. **39**, 86 (1933). * [7] I. R. Harris and G. V. Raynor, J.
Less-Common Met. **9**, 7 (1965). * [8] R. J. Gambino, N. R. Stemple,
and A. M. Toxen, J. Phys. Chem. Solids **29**, 295 (1968). * [9] G. K.
Shenoy, B. D. Dunlap, G. M. Kalvius, A. M. Toxen, and R. J. Gambino, J.
Appl. Phys. **41**, 1317 (1970). * [10] R. Settai, K. Sugiyama, A.
Yamaguchi, S. Araki, K. Miyake, T. Takeuchi, K. Kindo, Y. Onuki, and Z.
Kletowski, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **69**, 3983 (2000). * [11] A. P. Murani,
Phys. Rev. B **28**, 2308 (1983). * [12] K. Miller and H. T. Hall,
Inorg. Chem. **11**, 1188 (1972). * [13] J. C. P. Klaasse, R. T. Meijer,
and F. R. de Boer, Solid State Commun. **33**, 1001 (1980). * [14] I.
Sakamoto, S. Ohara, I. Oguro, and S. Maruno, Physica B **230-232**, 286
(1997). * [15] E. Y. Tonkov, _High Pressure Phase Transformations: A
Handbook_ (Gordon and Breach Science Publications, PA, 1992), Vol. 2. *
[16] F. A. Schmidt and D. McMasters, J. Less-Common Met. **15**, 1
(1968). * [17] F. Borsa, R. G. Barnes, and R. A. Reese, Phys. Status
Solidi **19**, 359 (1967). * [18] K. Momma and F. Izumi, J. Appl.
Crystallogr. **41**, 653 (2008). * [19] D. Niculescu, I. Bradea, O.
Ivanciu, and E. Cruceanu, J. Less-Common Met. **42**, 311 (1975). * [20]
N. R. Werthamer, E. Helfand, and P. C. Hohenberg, Phys. Rev. **147**,
295 (1966). * [21] K. Maki, Phys. Rev. **148**, 362 (1966). * [22] J. S.
Kim, R. K. Kremer, L. Boeri, and F. S. Razavi, Phys. Rev. Lett. **96**,
217002 (2006). * [23] The specific-heat measurements were carried out on
a piece of a sample, which was also characterized by powder x-ray
diffraction. The sample contained two phases: YSn₃ (the majority phase)
and Sn (the impurity phase). The contribution of the sample to the
measured specific heat $C_{\rm P}$ can be determined using $C_{\rm P}$
($\mu\lambda/{\rm Kg}^{-1}$)≈_x_C${}^{\rm YSn}_{\rm p}$+(1→_x_)$C_{\rm P}^{\rm Sn}$,
where x and 1 − x are the weight fractions of YSn₃ and Sn, respectively.
x was determined from the ratio of intensity of powder x-ray diffraction
patterns of YSn₃ and Sn. $C_{\rm P}^{\rm Sn}$ was determined
independently from previous reports (C. A. Bryant and P. H. Keesom,
Phys. Rev. **123**, 491 (1961). * [24] M. Tinkham, _Introduction to
Superconductivity_, 2nd ed. (McGraw-Hill, New York, 1996). * [25] E.
Bucher, K. Andres, J. P. Maita, and G. W. Hull, Jr., Helv. Phys. Acta
**41**, 723 (1968). * [26] E. E. Havinga, Phys. Lett. A **28**, 350
(1968). * [27] E. E. Havinga, H. Damsma, and M. H. Van Maaren, J. Phys.
Chem. Solids **31**, 2653 (1970).

  ------------------------------------ ----------------
  $T_{\rm c}$                                7 K
  $H_{\rm c1}(0)$                           90 Oe
  $H_{\rm c2}(0)$                          3000 Oe
  λ                                         270 nm
  ξ                                         66 nm
  $\kappa_{\rm GL}$                          4.1
  $\Delta C/\gamma_{\rm N}T_{\rm c}$         2.19
  $\gamma_{\rm N}$                      7.57 mJ/mol K²
  β                                     0.83 mJ/mol K⁴
  $\theta_{\rm D}$                          210 K
  ------------------------------------ ----------------

Table 1: Normal and superconducting parameters of YSn₃.
