# Superconductivity of the hydrogen-rich metal hydride Li₈MoH₁₁ under
high pressure

Dezhong Meng,1,* Masafumi Sakata,1 Katsuya Shimizu,1 Yuki Iijima,2
Hiroyuki Saitoh,3 Toyoto Sato,2

Shigeyuki Takagi,2 and Shin-ichi Orimo2,4

1KYOKUGEN, Graduate School of Engineering Science, Osaka University, 1-3
Machikaneyama, Toyonaka, Osaka 560-8531, Japan 2Institute for Materials
Research, Tohoku University, 2-1-1 Katahira, Aoba-ku, Sendai, Miyagi
980-8577, Japan 3Quantum Beam Science Research Directorate, National
Institutes for Quantum and Radiological Science and Technology, 1-1-1
Kouto, Sayo-cho, Sayo-gun, Hyogo 679-5148, Japan 4WPI Advanced Institute
for Materials Research, Tohoku University, 2-1-1 Katahira, Aoba-ku,
Sendai, Miyagi 980-8577, Japan

###### Abstract

Ternary metal hydrides are convenient and valuable systems for
investigating the metallization and superconductivity of metal hydrides
because they can be synthesized under mild conditions and recovered
under ambient pressure. In this study, the conducting behavior and
structural phase transition of a hydrogen-rich metal hydride, Li₈MoH₁₁,
were investigated at pressures up to 210 GPa in a diamond anvil cell.
The results showed that Li₈MoH₁₁ transforms from an insulator to a poor
metal at around 100 GPa. Superconductivity was observed at 100 GPa and
retained until 210 GPa, and its maximum onset transition temperature was
6.5 K at 160 GPa. High-pressure synchrotron x-ray diffraction
experiments revealed that the ambient-pressure hexagonal crystal
structure is retained until at least 130 GPa. Furthermore, apart from
the influence of pressure on the conducting behavior of Li₈MoH₁₁, the
effect of annealing time on the conducting and superconducting behaviors
at room temperature and high pressure were also observed. We
hypothesized that this time-dependent behavior is due to the restoration
of the MoH₉ cage structure after distortion or rotation caused by
pressurization. These findings provide insight on the conducting and
superconducting behaviors of ternary metal hydrides that, until
recently, have been mostly studied by theoretical methods.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.99.024508

## I Introduction

As the first element of the periodic table, hydrogen is predicted to be
metallic and, even possibly, a high-temperature superconductor under
high pressure [1,2]. Quantum mechanics calculations suggest that
molecular hydrogen can form a metallic state and show superconductivity
at a transition temperature (T_(c)) of 242 K and pressure of 450 GPa
[3]. When molecular hydrogen transforms to atomic hydrogen at 500 GPa,
the T_(c) would be higher than room temperature, specifically 356 K
[4,5]. These attractive theoretical predictions provided an impetus for
scientists to experimentally explore the superconductivity of hydrogen
under high pressure. However, the observation of the metallization of
pure hydrogen under high pressure has remained elusive despite many
high-pressure experiments above 300 GPa [6, 7, 8, 9]. Because of the
inaccessibility of high pressure for hydrogen metallization at typical
experimental conditions, ideas on metallic and superconducting hydrogen
were extended to hydrides. On the basis of Ashcroft’s suggestion, the
metallization of hydrides can be achieved by current experimental
techniques owing to chemical "pre-compression" from relatively heavier
elements [10]. Subsequently, numerous hydrogen-rich hydrides have been
predicted to show metallic phases and even superconductivity under high
pressure [11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20]. Several theoretical
studies have indicated that the high-pressure phases of silane exhibit a
metallic state and superconducting behavior at T_(c) values from 16 to
55 K under high pressure [11, 12, 13]. Silane later became the hydride
to experimentally exhibit superconducting behavior at a T_(c) of 17 K at
96 and 120 GPa [21], despite intensive debates [22, 23, 24]. Another
hydride that showed superconducting behavior was sulfur hydride, which,
surprisingly, had a T_(c) of 203 K at 150 GPa [25]. Additionally, this
experimental T_(c) value, as well as the body-centered-cubic structure
of the superconducting phase, matched the theoretical calculations well
[16,26]. This discovery has generated significant interest in exploring
other hydrides that could be a 3 kind of high-T_(c) superconductor. The
hydrogen-rich metal hydrides, CaH₆[17], YH₆[18], MgH₆[19], YH₁₀, and
LaH₁₀[20], which have a sodalite-like cage structure, have become
increasingly attractive owing to the potentially high T_(c) (>200 K or
even room temperature) under high pressure. Recently, the successful
synthesis of LaH_(10 + x) from La and H₂ at about 170 GPa and 1000 K was
reported [27]. However, experiments are difficult to implement because
of slashing experimental conditions of 170 GPa and 1000 K.

Ternary hydrides can be regarded as doped binary hydrides; thus, they
are also believed to show metallization (at pressures lower than that of
pure hydrogen) and possibly, high-temperature superconductivity [28].
Following this idea, theoretical models of ternary metal hydrides were
constructed by introducing a metal into a hydride, and systems such as
MgCH₄[28], MgSiH₆[29], MgGeH₆[30], and Fe₂SH₃[31] showed
superconductivity under high pressure. Synthesis of these hydrides is
underway. Transition metal hydrides show hydrogen-rich coordination with
cage structure because of covalent bonding between transition metal and
hydrogen atoms [32]. In these hydrides, such as MgFeH6, Mg₂C_(r)H_(s),
BaReH9, and Li₅MoH₁₁, the transition metal can be surrounded by more
than six hydrogen atoms [33, 34, 35]. Moreover, compared with binary
metal hydrides, which are synthesized at high pressure, ternary
transition metal hydrides usually require mild pressures (below 10 GPa)
for synthesis and can be recovered under ambient pressure. Electrical
conductivity experiments showed that the ternary transition metal
hydride, BaReH9, is a superconductor at pressures above 100 GPa with a
maximum T_(c) of 7 K [36].

This study focused on the transition metal hydride, Li₅MoH₁₁, which has
a hexagonal crystal structure, wherein Li⁺, H⁻, and the
ninefold-hydrogen-coordinated [MoH9]³⁻ form ionic bonds. Density of
states calculations indicated that the hydrogen 1s orbital is strongly
hybridized with Mo spd states to form a σ-bond and reach the Fermi level
[35]. The high hydrogen number can promote the hybridization of hydrogen
and the transition metal and furthermore, a high T_(c). Moreover,
calculations of competing phase structures under compression predicted
that a phase transition from MoH9 (with ninefold hydrogen coordination)
to MoH11 (with 11-fold hydrogen coordination) occurs at around 94 GPa,
thereby changing the transition metal hydride from an insulator to a
metal. Thus, the conducting and superconducting behaviors of Li₅MoH₁₁
become intriguing under high pressure. Li₅MoH₁₁ is expected to show
metallization and possibly, high T_(c) superconductivity, upon
application of pressure. These two phenomena were investigated under
high pressure by electrical resistance measurements. In addition,
synchrotron powder x-ray diffraction (XRD) was carried out to understand
the pressure dependence of phase transition.

## II Experimental details

Li₅MoH₁₁ was synthesized using the high-pressure, high-temperature
method described in Ref. [35]. A diamond anvil cell was used for
pressurization. The culet size of the beveled diamond was 100-300 μm and
the angle was 8^(∘). The gasket was a 250-μm chemium plate preindented
to 25 μm and drilled with a 130-μm-diameter hole filled with a mixture
of cubic boron nitride (_c_-BN) and epoxy, which was pressured to a
thickness of 25 μm. A sample chamber with a diameter of 32 μm was
drilled into the _c_-BN layer. The resistance was measured with
electrical probes made of Pt foil and an Au film using a four-probe
method [37]. The outer part of the electrical probe is a Pt foil set on
the surface of _c_-BN, while the inner part is an Au film deposited on
the surface of the top diamond. The Pt foil and Au film were connected
during pressurization. Sample loading was performed in a glovebox under
argon atmosphere to prevent decomposition or any other chemical
reaction. To ensure that all resistance signals come from the sample
itself, no pressure medium was used in this experiment. The pressure
dependence of the resistance of the sample was measured in the AC
four-terminal measurement mode. The pressure was gauged at room
temperature using the diamond Raman method described by Akahama [38].
The sample was cooled using liquid helium and a ³He/⁴He dilution
refrigerator. The synchrotron powder XRD experiment was performed at
Beamline BL10XU of the SPring-8 synchrotron radiation facility (Hyogo,
Japan). The beams were monochromatized to a wavelength of 0.41499 A and
collimated to a diameter of 10 μm. The XRD signals were collected by the
imaging plate x-ray area detector system.

## III Results and discussion

Li₅MoH₁₁ is an insulator at ambient pressure. During pressurization at
room temperature, the resistance drops by two orders of magnitude until
the pressure reaches 100 GPa, as shown in Fig. 1(a). The resistance
stabilizes above 100 GPa, at which the resistivity is around 0.001 Ω cm.
This corresponds to a conductivity of 1000 S cm⁻¹, which is close to the
minimum conductivity of a metal [39, 40]. Thus, Li₅MoH₁₁ transforms from
an insulator to a poor metal at room temperature and pressures above 100
GPa. Intriguingly, a rapid decrease in the room-temperature resistance
is detected between 90 and 100 GPa. At 100 GPa and room temperature, the
resistance declines continuously; it decreases from 48 (point A) to 17 Ω
(point B) after 13 days and stabilizes at 10 Ω (point C) after another
22 days, as shown in Fig. 1(b). The sample notably presents insulating
behavior, which is suppressed with increasing annealing time, as
indicated by the increase in the slope of the resistance-temperature
(_R-T_) curve (_dR/dT_). Thus, the conducting behavior of Li₅MoH₁₁ is
affected not only by pressure but also the duration of annealing. This
time dependence of the conducting behavior is also reported for BaReH9,
whose superconductivity emerges within a time period of 77 days at 139
GPa [36].

With a further pressure increase to 130 GPa, the resistance drops
abruptly near 3 K and levels at 1 K in the _R-T_ curve, which represents
the superconducting transition. This superconducting behavior can be
retained with a further increase in pressure up to 170 GPa, as shown in
Fig. 1(c). To confirm superconductivity, an incremental magnetic field
was applied to the sample at 140 GPa. Superconductivity is suppressed by
the magnetic field, and no resistance drop occurs at a magnetic field of
4 T when the sample is cooled down to 1 K, as shown in Fig. 1(d). To
further understand this behavior, the relationship between the upper
critical field H_(c2) and onset T_(c) is plotted in the inset of Fig.
1(d). The dashed line represents the slope of the linear fitting of
H_(c2)[(dH_(c2)/dT)_(T = T_(c))]. The H_(c2) at 0 K can be estimated
using the Werthamer-Helfand-Hohenberg formula,
H_(c2)(0) = −0.693T_(c)(dH_(c2)/dT)_(T = T_(c))[41]. The calculated
H_(c2) at 0 K is 4.5 T, which is consistent with experimental data
indicating that a magnetic field of 4 T can restrain superconductivity.
The high H_(c2) signifies that this new superconductor is likely a
type-II superconductor. T_(c) is defined as the deviation of the
resistance curve from the linear temperature dependence, as described in
Fig. 1(d). Zero resistance cannot be obtained mainly because of the
deformation resistance that includes the nonsuperconducting part of the
sample in series with the measuring path. The observed drop in
resistance cannot be attributed to the Re gasket because the T_(c) of Re
is 1.7 K at room temperature, reaches its peak (3.5 K) at 5 GPa, and is
lower than 2 K when the pressure is higher than 60 GPa [42, 43]. One of
the starting materials of Li₅MoH₁₁ Mo, has a T_(c) of around 1 K [44];
thus, the possibility that Re and Mo are in the superconducting phase
can be excluded.

At ambient pressure, the crystal structure of Li₃MoH₁₁ is hexagonal with
space group P6₃cm (No. 185). To confirm the pure phase, Rietveld
analysis of the powder XRD pattern measured at ambient pressure was
performed using the r$\hat{\mathrm{e}}$t$\hat{\mathrm{a}}$n-2000 program
[45,46]. Figure 2(a) shows that refinement parameters R_(sep) and R_(p)
are 3.46

In this study, electrical resistance measurements were carried out to
investigate the metallization and superconductivity of Li₅MoH₁₁ under
high pressure. The phase diagram of Li₅MoH₁₁ based on two independent
runs is summarized in Fig. 3. Overall, Li₅MoH₁₁ transforms from an
insulator to a poor metal at around 100 GPa. Superconducting behavior
emerges after metallization. Metallization and superconductivity are
realized when Li₅MoH₁₁ has a hexagonal structure because, as
demonstrated by synchrotron powder XRD, this structure is maintained up
to 130 GPa. Li₅MoH₁₁ shows time-dependent behavior under high pressure,
which implies that apart from the influence of pressure and temperature
on electrical resistance, the effect of annealing time on resistance and
conducting behavior can also be observed. BaReH₉ also exhibited
time-dependent behavior, possibly owing to the distortion of the ReH₉
unit, and its superconductivity emerged with an extended time of 77 days
[36]. Because the bonding state in MoH₉ is similar to that in ReH₉, we
hypothesize that the time-dependent behavior of Li₅MoH₁₁ also arises
from the recovery of hydrogen cages around the Mo atoms after

Figure 1: (a) Pressure dependence of electrical resistance of Li₅MoH₁₁
at room temperature. Temperature dependence of resistance at various
pressures: (b) 100 GPa at various annealing times, (c) 130–170 GPa at
0–300 K (inset: 0–10 K), and (d) 140 GPa at various magnetic fields. The
inset shows upper critical field H_(c2) at various transition
temperatures T_(c), which are determined from the onset of resistance
drop. The dashed line is the linear fitting with slope
(dH_(c2)/dT)_(T = T_(c)).

distortion or rotation due to pressurization. It was concluded from the
XRD results that the time-dependent behavior is not induced by the
transition of the hexagonal structure, although the position of hydrogen
atoms cannot be determined. In the Li₅MoH₁₁ structure, Mo and H atoms
hybridize and form a MoH₉ unit with ninefold hydrogen coordination. MoH₉
prisms are distorted by high pressure and then restored after a time
lapse to a more stable state. The recovery time can last 48 days at 100
GPa for Li₅MoH₁₁ and 77 days at 139 GPa for BaReH₉. The pressure-time
path plays an important role in the conducting behavior of Li₅MoH₁₁.
Additionally, based on the calculated electronic structure, the physical
properties of Li₅MoH₁₁ are also dominated by the MoH₉ unit [35]. It can
be seen from Fig. 3 that the T_(c) from the two independent runs do not
match well. We hypothesize that this is due to the different
room-temperature annealing time under high pressure. At 100 GPa, the
annealing time was 48 days in the first run and 18 days in the second
run, and this would lead to a discrepancy in the recovery of the
hydrogen cage after distortion or rotation.

Two different superconducting phases (SC1 and SC2) are defined in the
phase diagram because evidence of a possible phase transition is
observed at 160 GPa in the second run (Fig. 3). It is remarkable that
there are three points of inflection at 160 GPa but only one at 150 GPa
in the _R-T_ curve, as shown in Fig. 4(a). Moreover, these inflections
are suppressed by applying magnetic fields of up to 6 T. Figure 4(b)
shows the temperature dependence of H_(c2) at 150 and 160 GPa. The
estimated value of H_(c2)(0) at 160 GPa is 13.7 T, which is much higher
than that at 150 GPa (5.3 T). This may be explained by the coexistence
of three high-pressure phases. For BaReH₉, two inflection points with
similar behavior are recognized at 91 GPa [36]. In addition, Ying _et
al_. reported a similar discrepancy in H_(c2) at different pressures due
to phase transition, as proven by Raman measurement [48]. Thus, these
results

Figure 3: Phase diagram of Li₅MoH₁₁ as a function of pressure. The black
squares and blue triangles represent data from run 1 and run 2,
respectively. The annealing time was 48 days for run 1 and 18 days for
run 2. HP indicates high-pressure, and SC1 and SC2 indicate
superconducting phases. The different values of T_(c) at 160 and 165 GPa
in SC2 indicate the coexistence of high-pressure superconducting phases.

Figure 2: (a) Powder XRD pattern of Li₅MoH₁₁ at ambient pressure and
Rietveld refinement parameters R_(wp) and R_(p). (b) Powder XRD pattern
at various pressures up to 130 GPa and room temperature. Open circles
indicate the reflection from Li₅MoH₁₁; closed circle, Li₂O; and open
triangle, tungsten (needle used to load sample into diamond anvil cell).
(c) Pressure dependence of lattice parameters a and c. (d) Unit cell
volume V as a function of pressure. The solid curve is the best-fit
curve to the third-order Birch-Mumaghan equation of state. Data fitting
yields a bulk modulus B₀ of 51.6 (±2.2) GPa and its first pressure
derivative B₀^(′) of 4.65 (±0.17).

may indicate a possible phase transition at 160 GPa. Several phases
coexist between 160 and 170 GPa and transform to a single phase above
170 GPa. A synchrotron powder XRD measurement at pressures up to 170 GPa
is necessary to verify this hypothesized phase transition.

Both Li₃MoH₁₁ and BaReH₉ exhibit time-dependent behavior. Furthermore,
several possible superconducting phases appear for both transition metal
hydrides. The T_(c) and pressure region of their superconducting phases
are also quite similar. These similarities may be attributed to their
hexagonal crystal structure, which includes the MH₉ (M: Re, Mo) unit
hybridized by the transition metal and hydrogen atoms. The conducting
and superconducting behaviors are affected by the MH₉ cage structure.
Based on the phase diagrams of BaReH₉ and Li₃MoH₁₁, the distortion or
rotation of the cage structure with time-dependent effects may change
T_(c). On the other hand, the BaReH₉ phase diagram notably shows a
dome-shaped superconducting phase between 80 and 150 GPa, whereas the
T_(c) of Li₃MoH₁₁ begins at 100 GPa, remains at 6.5 K from 160 to 210
GPa, and decreases to 4.5 K at 155 GPa. The superconducting phase of
Li₅MoH₁₁ is obtained above 200 GPa. Moreover, unlike the emergence of
superconductivity in BaReH₉, there is no evident change in resistance
and accelerated superconducting behavior in Li₃MoH₁₁ upon laser
irradiation.

## IV Conclusions

In summary, electrical resistance and synchrotron powder XRD
measurements of the hydrogen-rich metal hydride, Li₃MoH₁₁, were carried
out at pressures of up to 210 GPa. Metallization of Li₃MoH₁₁ was
realized at around 100 GPa and room temperature. Superconductivity
emerged from around 100 to 210 GPa with a maximum T_(c) of 6.5 K. The
XRD data indicated that the hexagonal structure is maintained at
pressures up to 130 GPa. The room-temperature annealing time had an
effect on T_(c) and its corresponding pressure. These results provide
more information about the behavior of the superconducting family of
hydrogen-rich ternary metal hydrides.

###### Acknowledgements.

This work was supported by Japan Society for the Promotion of Science
(JSPS) KAKENHI Specially Promoted Research Grant No. 26000006; JSPS
KAKENHI Grant No. 16H06119; Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports,
Science, and Technology (MEXT) KAKENHI JP18H05513; and the China
Scholarship Council Program. The authors thank N. Warifune from Tohoku
University for assistance with sample synthesis.

## References

* [1] N. W. Ashcroft, Phys. Rev. Lett. **21**, 1748 (1968). * [2] C. F.
Richardson and N. W. Ashcroft, Phys. Rev. Lett. **78**, 118 (1997). *
[3] P. Cudazzo, G. Profeta, A. Sanna, A. Floris, A. Continenza, S.
Massidda, and E. K. U. Gross, Phys. Rev. Lett. **100**, 257001 (2008). *
[4] J. M. McMahon and D. M. Ceperley, Phys. Rev. B **84**, 144515
(2011). * [5] J. M. McMahon, M. A. Morales, C. Pierleoni, and D. M.
Ceperley, Rev. Mod. Phys. **84**, 1607 (2012). * [6] M. I. Eremets and
I. A. Troyan, Nat. Mater. **10**, 927 (2011). * [7] R. P. Dias and I. F.
Silvera, Science **355**, 715 (2017). * [8] X. D. Liu, P. D. Simpson, R.
T. Howie, B. Li, and E. Gregoryanz, Science **357**, 2286 (2017). * [9]
A. F. Goncharov and V. V. Struzhkin, Science **357**, 9736 (2017). *
[10] N. W. Ashcroft, Phys. Rev. Lett. **92**, 187002 (2004). * [11] Y.
Yao, J. S. Tse, Y. Ma, and K. Tanaka, Europhys. Lett. **78**, 37003
(2007). * [12] X. J. Chen, J. L. Wang, V. V. Struzhkin, H. K. Mao, R. J.
Hemley, and H. Q. Lin, Phys. Rev. Lett. **101**, 077002 (2008). * [13]
M. Martinez-Canales, A. R. Oganov, Y. Ma, Y. Yan, A. O. Lyakhov, and A.
Bergara, Phys. Rev. Lett. **102**, 087005 (2009). * [14] J. S. Tse, Y.
Yao, and K. Tanaka, Phys. Rev. Lett. **98**, 117004 (2007).

Figure 4: (a) Resistance as a function of temperature at various
magnetic fields and 160 GPa (inset: 150 GPa). (b) Transition temperature
T_(c) dependence of upper critical field H_(c2) at 150 and 160 GPa.
These three curves at 160 GPa correspond to three points of inflection.

* Gao et al. (2008) G. Gao, A. R. Oganov, A. Bergara, M.
Martinez-Canales, T. Cui, T. Iitaka, Y. Ma, and G. Zou, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**101**, 107002 (2008). * Duan et al. (2014) D. Duan, Y. Liu, F. Tian,
D. Li, X. Huang, Z. Zhao, H. Yu, B. Liu, W. Tian, and T. Cui, Sci. Rep.
**4**, 6968 (2014). * Wang et al. (2012) H. Wang, J. S. Tse, K. Tanaka,
T. Iitaka, and Y. Ma, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA **109**, 6463 (2012). *
Li et al. (2015) Y. Li, J. Hao, H. Liu, J. S. Tse, Y. Wang, and Y. Ma,
Sci. Rep. **5**, 9948 (2015). * Peng et al. (2017) F. Peng, Y. Sun, C.
J. Pickard, R. J. Needs, Q. Wu, and Y. Ma, Phys. Rev. Lett. **119**,
107001 (2017). * Liu et al. (2017) H. Liu, I. I. Naumov, R. Hoffmann, N.
W. Ashcroft, and R. J. Hemley, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA **114**, 6990
(2017). * Eremets et al. (2008) M. I. Eremets, I. A. Trojan, S. A.
Medvedev, J. S. Tse, and Y. Yao, Science **319**, 1506 (2008). *
Degtyareva et al. (2009) O. Degtyareva, J. E. Proctor, C. L. Guillaume,
E. Gregoryanz, and M. Hanfland, Solid State Commun. **149**, 1583
(2009). * Strobel et al. (2011) T. A. Strobel, A. F. Goncharov, C. T.
Seagle, Z. Liu, M. Somayazulu, V. V. Struzhkin, and R. J. Hemley, Phys.
Rev. B **83**, 144102 (2011). * Hanfland et al. (2011) M. Hanfland, J.
E. Proctor, C. L. Guillaume, O. Degtyareva, and E. Gregoryanz, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **106**, 095503 (2011). * Drozdov et al. (2015) A. P.
Drozdov, M. I. Eremets, I. A. Troyan, V. Ksenofontov, and S. I. Shylin,
Nature (London) **525**, 73 (2015). * Einaga et al. (2016) M. Einaga, M.
Sakata, T. Ishikawa, K. Shimizu, M. I. Eremets, A. P. Drozdov, I.
Troyan, N. Hirao, and Y. Ohishi, Nat. Phys. **12**, 835 (2016). *
Geballe et al. (2018) Z. M. Geballe, H. Liu, A. K. Mishra, M. Ahart, M.
Somayazulu, Y. Meng, M. Baldini, and R. J. Hemley, Angew. Chem., Int.
Ed. **57**, 688 (2018). * Tian et al. (2015) F. Tian, D. Li, D. Duan, X.
Sha, Y. Liu, T. Yang, B. Liu, and T. Cui, Mater. Res. Express **2**,
046001 (2015). * Ma et al. (2017) Y. Ma, D. Duan, Z. Shao, H. Yu, H.
Liu, F. Tian, X. Huang, D. Li, B. Liu, and T. Cui, Phys. Rev. B **96**,
144518 (2017). * Ma et al. (2017) Y. Ma, D. Duan, Z. Shao, D. Li, L.
Wang, H. Yu, F. Tian, H. Xie, B. Liu, and T. Cui, Phys. Chem. Chem.
Phys. **19**, 27406 (2017). * Zhang et al. (2016) S. Zhang, L. Zhu, H.
Liu, and G. Yang, Inorg. Chem. **55**, 11434 (2016). * Takagi and Orimo
(2015) S. Takagi and S. Orimo, Scr. Mater. **109**, 1 (2015). * Takagi
et al. (2015) S. Takagi, Y. Iijima, T. Sato, H. Saitoh, K. Ikeda, T.
Otomo, K. Miwa, T. Ikeshoji, K. Aoki, and S. Orimo, Angew. Chem., Int.
Ed. **54**, 5650 (2015). * Stetson et al. (1994) N. T. Stetson, K. Yvon,
and P. Fischer, Inorg. Chem. **33**, 4598 (1994). * Takagi et al. (2017)
S. Takagi, Y. Iijima, T. Sato, H. Saitoh, K. Ikeda, T. Otomo, K. Miwa,
T. Ikeshoji, and S. Orimo, Sci. Rep. **7**, 44253 (2017). * Muramatsu et
al. (2015) T. Muramatsu, W. K. Wanene, M. Somayazulu, E. Vinitsky, D.
Chandra, T. A. Strobel, V. V. Struzhkin, and R. J. Hemley, J. Phys.
Chem. C **119**, 18007 (2015). * Shimizu (2007) K. Shimizu, J. Phys.
Condens. Matter. **19**, 125207 (2007). * Akahama and Kawamura (2006) Y.
Akahama and H. Kawamura, J. Appl. Phys. **100**, 043516 (2006). *
Eremets et al. (2001) M. I. Eremets, V. V. Struzhkin, H. K. Mao, and R.
Hemley, Science **293**, 272 (2001). * Mott (1990) N. F. Mott,
_Metal-Insulator Transition_, 2nd ed. (Taylor & Francis, London,
1990). * Werthamer et al. (1966) N. R. Werthamer, E. Helfand, and P. C.
Hohenberg, Phys. Rev. **147**, 295 (1966). * Chu et al. (1968) C. W.
Chu, T. F. Smith, and W. E. Gardner, Phys. Rev. Lett. **20**, 198
(1968). * Takahama et al. (unpublished) K. Takahama, T. Matsuoka, and K.
Shimizu (unpublished). * Hamlin (2015) J. J. Hamlin, Physica C **514**,
59 (2015). * Rietveld (1969) H. M. Rietveld, J. Appl. Cryst. **2**, 65
(1969). * Izumi and Ikeda (2000) F. Izumi and T. Ikeda, Mater. Sci.
Forum **321-324**, 198 (2000). * Birch (1947) F. Birch, Phys. Rev.
**71**, 809 (1947). * Ying et al. (2016) J.-J. Ying, V. V. Struzhkin,
Z.-Y. Cao, A. F. Goncharov, H.-K. Mao, F. Chen, X.-H. Chen, A. G.
Gavriliuk, and X.-J. Chen, Phys. Rev. B **93**, 100504 (2016).
