# Weak interband-coupling superconductivity in the filled skutterudite
LaPt₄Ge₁₂

J. L. Zhang,^(1, 2) G. M. Pang,¹ L. Jiao,¹ M. Nicklas,^(3,) Y. Chen,¹ Z.
F. Weng,¹ M. Smidman,¹ W. Schnelle,³ A. Leithe-Jasper,³ A.
Maisuradze,^(4, 5) C. Baines,⁴ R. Khasanov,⁴ A. Amato,⁴ F.
Steglich,^(1, 3) R. Gumeniuk,^(3, 6) and H. Q. Yuan^(1, 7,)

¹Center for Correlated Matter and Department of Physics, Zhejiang
University, Hangzhou 310058, China

²High Magnetic Field Laboratory, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Hefei
230031, China

³Max Planck Institute for Chemical Physics of Solids, Nothnitzer Strasse
40, D-01187 Dresden, Germany

⁴Laboratory for Muon Spin Spectroscopy, Paul Scherrer Institut, CH-5232
Villigen PSI, Switzerland

⁵Physik-Institut der Universitat Zurich, Winterthurerstrasse 190,
CH-8057 Zurich, Switzerland

⁶Institut fur Experimentelle Physik, TU Bergakademie Freiberg, Leipgger
Strasse 23, D-09596 Freiberg, Germany

⁷Collaborative Innovation Center of Advanced Microstructures, Nanjing
210093, China

###### Abstract

The superconducting pairing state of LaPt₄Ge₁₂ is studied by measuring
the magnetic penetration depth λ(T, B) and superfluid density ρ_(s)(T)
using a tunnel-dode-oscillator (TDO)-based method and transverse-field
muon-spin rotation (TF-μSR) spectroscopy. The penetration depth follows
an exponential-type temperature dependence at T ≪ T_(c), but increases
linearly with magnetic field at T = 1.5 K. A detailed analysis
demonstrates that both λ_(L)(T) and $\rho_{T}^{\rm TDO}(T)$, measured in
the Hessner state using the TDO method, are well described by a two-gap
γ model with gap sizes of Δ₁(0) = 1.31k_(B)T_(c) and
Δ₂(0) = 1.80k_(B)T_(c), and weak interband coupling. In contrast,
$\rho_{s}^{\mu\rm SR}(T)$, derived from the μSR data, can be fitted by a
single-gap BCS model with a gap close to Δ₂(0). We conclude that
LaPt₄Ge₁₂ is a marginal two-gap superconductor and the small gap Δ₁
seems to be suppressed by a small magnetic field applied in the μSR
experiments. In comparison, the 4 f electrons in PrPt₄Ge₁₂ may enhance
the interband coupling and, therefore, give rise to more robust
multiband superconductivity.

pacs: 10.1103/PhysRevB.92.220503

+ Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL REVIEW B **92**, 220503(R) (2015)

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.92.220503

The discovery of superconductivity (SC) in a series of Pr-based
skutterudite compounds, i.e., PrT_(d)X₁₂ (T = Fe, Ru, Os, and X =
pnictogen), has attracted considerable interest. Despite intensive
investigations of the physical properties of these compounds, their
superconducting order parameter and, therefore, the pairing mechanism
remains highly controversial [1], with evidence for nodal
superconductivity in some compounds and conventional BCS SC in others.
Even for the same compound, most prominently, the heavy-fermion
superconductor PrOs₄Sb₁₂, the gap symmetry is still under debate. Here,
the early measurements provided evidence of point nodes with a possible
triplet pairing state [2, 3, 4]. Upon improving the sample homogeneity
and measuring to lower temperatures, recent measurements give evidence
for multiband SC in PrOs₄Sb₁₂[5, 6]. Exploration of other filled
skutterudite superconductors may help to elucidate the superconducting
pairing state and the question of its universality.

A family of Ge-based skutterudites with T_(c) ranging from 5 to 8.3 K,
i.e., MPt₄Ge₁₂ (M = π, Ba, La, Pr), was discovered a few years ago [7,
8, 9, 10]. Much as PrOs₄Sb₁₂, zero-field muon-spin rotation (μSR)
experiments showed evidence for time-reversal symmetry (TRS) breaking in
the superconducting state of PrPt₄Ge₁₂, but not for LaPt₄Ge₁₂[11, 12,
13, 14, 15, 16]. However, more recent experiments suggested multigap SC
for PrPt₄Ge₁₂[14, 15, 16]. Furthermore, a coherence peak was observed in
the nuclear spin-lattice relaxation rate 1/T₁ just below T_(c) for
PrPt₄Ge₁₂, which is unexpectedly suppressed in LaPt₄Ge₁₂[17]. However,
the weak variation of T_(c) and of the specific heat jump at T_(c) with
the Pr content x in La_(1 − x)Pt_(x)Pt₄Ge₁₂ suggests that the order
parameters of the two end members are similar [12]. Thus, LaPt₄Ge₁₂ is
not a simple reference compound of PrPt₄Ge₁₂, as seen in many
heavy-fermion systems. In order to clarify the superconducting order
parameter in LaPt₄Ge₁₂, further investigations are badly needed.
Furthermore, a comparative study of PrPt₄Ge₁₂ and LaPt₄Ge₁₂ could shed
new light on the role of Pr-4 f electrons in the formation of SC and,
therefore, provide a more general picture of the pairing states in
skutterudite superconductors.

In this Rapid Communication, we report a comprehensive study of the
magnetic penetration depth λ(T, B) and superfluid density ρ_(s)(T) of
LaPt₄Ge₁₂ using μSR and a tunnel-diode-oscillator (TDO)-based technique.
The London penetration depth λ_(L)(T), measured by the TDO method,
follows exponential-type behavior in the low-temperature limit,
suggesting nodeless SC for LaPt₄Ge₁₂. The penetration depth λ_(m)(B),
determined from the μSR experiments at T = 1.5 K, follows a linear field
dependence, giving evidence for multigap SC. The superfluid density
$\rho_{s}^{\rm TDO}(T)$, converted from λ_(L)(T), is best described by a
two-gap γ model, with gap sizes of Δ₁(0) = 1.31k_(B)T_(c) and
Δ₂(0) = 1.80k_(B)T_(c) at T = 0. However, the superfluid density
$\rho_{s}^{\mu\rm SR}(T)$ derived from μSR with a transverse field of 75
mT is fitted by a conventional BCS model with a gap of Δ(0) ≈ Δ₂(0). We
argue that marginal two-gap SC exists in LaPt₄Ge₁₂ and also some other
skutterudite superconductors. Due to very weak interband coupling in
LaPt₄Ge₁₂, the small gap may be destroyed by a weak magnetic field (as
used in our μSR measurements) or other perturbations.

Polycrystalline samples of LaPt₄Ge₁₂, as described in Ref. [7], were
used for the μSR experiments, which were performed using the πM3
beamline at the Paul Scherrer Institute (Switzerland) down to
temperatures of T = 1.5 K on the General Purpose Surface-Muon instrument
(GPS) and T ≈ 0.02 K on the Low Temperature Facility (LTF) spectrometer.

The samples were cooled in $B_{\rm{app}}=75$ mT from above T_(c) down to
1.5 K, and then measured as a function of temperature. At T = 1.5 K, we
also collected data in several applied magnetic fields. Typical counting
statistics were 7-8 × 10⁶ positron events per data point. High quality
single crystals of LaPt₄Ge₁₂, grown using multistep thermal treatments
[15, 18], were utilized for the London penetration depth study by a
TDO-based method. The ac field induced by the coil of the experimental
setup was less than 2 μT, which is much smaller than the lower critical
field of LaPt₄Ge₁₂, guaranteeing that the sample was in the Meissner
state. Typical sample dimensions were about 0.6 × 0.6 × 0.2 mm³. The
change of the London penetration depth Δλ_(L)(T) is proportional to the
frequency shift, i.e., Δλ_(L)(T) = GΔf(T), where G is solely determined
by the sample and coil geometries [19].

Figure 1(a) shows the Fourier transforms of the μSR time spectra P(B) of
LaPt₄Ge₁₂ at various temperatures for $B_{\rm{app}}=75$ mT. Above
T_(c) = 8.3 K, a narrow and sharp peak is visible in P(B), as is
expected for weak nuclear depolarization. Upon lowering the temperature,
the peak significantly broadens and becomes asymmetric, in accordance
with the field distribution of a well arranged flux-line lattice (FLL).
These features point to isotropic SC and weak pinning of the FLL in the
polycrystalline samples. In this context, we adopt the exact solution of
the Ginzburg-Landau equations following the method suggested by Brandt
to analyze the data [20, 21]. The complete analysis of the data follows
the procedures described in Ref. [22]. Accordingly, we considered the
spatial magnetic field distribution
$B({\bf r})=B({\bf r},\lambda_{m},\xi,(B))$ within the unit cell of the
FLL, where λ_(m) is the magnetic penetration depth and ξ is the
coherence length. The data are well fitted using the theoretical
polarization function P(t) given in Ref. [22], as denoted by the solid
lines in Fig. 1(a).

The mean value of the superfluid density can be expressed as
$\rho_{s}^{\mu}{\rm SR}\propto(1-b)/\lambda_{m}^{2}$, where
b = ⟨B⟩/B_(c2)(0) is the reduced field. In Fig. 1(b), we plot
$\rho_{s}^{\mu}{\rm SR}$ derived from the μSR data as a function of
temperature, which can be fitted by the conventional s-wave BCS model
with a gap amplitude of Δ(0) = 1.9k_(B)T_(c). The field dependence of
the penetration depth provides an alternative method for probing the
low-energy excitations. For nodal or multigap superconductors, the
penetration depth λ_(m) depends on the applied magnetic field [23], but
there is hardly any variation for conventional s-wave superconductors
[24]. In the inset of Fig. 1(b) we show the field dependence of λ_(m)
obtained at 1.5 K for several Pt₄Ge₁₂-based superconducting
skutterudites. In order to avoid correlation effects between λ and ξ,
the values of the coherence length ξ were fixed to 15.0, 14.2, 19.7, and
27.0 nm for the La-, Pt-, Sr-, and BaPt₄Ge₁₂ skutterudites, respectively
[25]. These values were obtained from the corresponding upper critical
fields B_(c2) at 1.5 K using the Ginzburg-Landau relation
B_(c2) = Φ₀/2πξ[11, 22]. For LaPt₄Ge₁₂ we used B_(c2)(1.5 K) = 1.48 T
[26]. λ_(m) of SrPt₄Ge₁₂ and BaPt₄Ge₁₂ are independent of the applied
field, as expected for s-wave SC with an isotropic gap [see Fig. 1(b)].
In contrast, λ_(m) of both LaPt₄Ge₁₂ and PrPt₄Ge₁₂ displays a linear
field dependence with a similar slope, which remarkably resembles that
of MgB₂[27], a prototype example of a two-band superconductor. Such
behavior is compatible with multiband SC, as previously shown for
PrPt₄Ge₁₂[14, 15, 16], but is unexpected for a single-band BCS
superconductor.

In order to understand this contradictory behavior, we measured the
London penetration depth Δλ_(L)(T) using the TDO-based method for
single-crystalline LaPt₄Ge₁₂. A sharp superconducting transition at
T_(c) = 8.2 K is observed in both the electrical resistivity ρ(T) and
specific heat C_(es)(T)/T, as shown in Figs. 2(a) and 2(b). Along with
the residual resistivity ratio RRR = 16.3, this confirms the high
quality of the LaPt₄Ge₁₂ crystals. Figure 2(c) presents Δλ_(L)(T) for
two samples from the same batch. The Δλ_(L)(T) data are well
reproducible between the two samples, showing nearly
temperature-independent behavior below 1.5 K. This provides further
evidence for nodeless SC in LaPt₄Ge₁₂. According

Figure 2: (Color online) Temperature dependence of (a) the electrical
resistivity ρ(T), (b) the electronic specific heat, and (c) the London
penetration depth Δλ_(L)(T) for LaPt₄Ge₁₂ single crystals. The inset
shows Δλ_(L)(T) over a wide temperature range. For clarity, the
Δλ_(L)(T) data of sample No. 2 are shifted by 10 Å. The solid lines
present a fit of the BCS model to the experimental Δλ_(L)(T) at
T ≪ T_(c).

Figure 1: (Color online) (a) Fourier transforms of the μSR time spectra
P(B) of LaPt₄Ge₁₂ at various temperatures, with an applied field of
$B_{\rm{app}}=75$ mT. For reasons of clarity, the data at each
temperature were scaled and shifted vertically. The solid lines are fits
to the data. (b) Temperature dependence of the superfluid density
$\rho_{s}^{\mu}{\rm SR}\propto(1-b)/\lambda_{m}^{2}$. The solid line
shows a BCS fit. Inset: Magnetic penetration depth λ_(m) as a function
of normalized field ⟨B⟩/B_(c2) in MPt₄Ge₁₂, M = La, Pr [11], Sr, and Ba
[22].

to the BCS model, the penetration depth at T ≪ T_(c) can be expressed by
[28]$\Delta\lambda(T)\approx\lambda(0)\sqrt{\frac{\pi\lambda(0)}{2k_{B}T}}\exp{(-\frac{ \Delta\lambda(0)}{k_{B}T})}$,
where λ(0) is the penetration depth at T = 0. Here, we take the value of
λ(0) ≈ 120 nm from the μSR results. Usually, the parameter Δ(0) varies
upon changing the fitted temperature range, but becomes saturated at
sufficiently low temperatures. The solid lines in Fig. 2(c) represent
the best fits to the BCS model in the low-temperature limit, giving
Δ(0) = 1.39k_(B)T_(c) for sample No. 1 and Δ(0) = 1.34k_(B)T_(c) for
sample No. 2. The fitted Δ(0) is much smaller than the BCS value of
Δ(0) = 1.76k_(B)T_(c), indicating the appearance of a secondary gap at
low temperatures or the anisotropic effect, which is unlikely in a cubic
system.

In Fig. 3, we plot the normalized superfluid density
$\rho_{s}^{\rm TDO}(T)=\lambda^{2}(0)/\lambda_{L}^{2}(T)$ for LaPt₄Ge₁₂,
which shows an upward curvature near T_(c). Such behavior may result
from the underestimation of λ(0). As a comparison, the lower inset of
Fig. 3 shows $\rho_{s}^{\rm TDO}(T)$ calculated using different values
of λ(0). Indeed, the upturn of $\rho_{s}^{\rm TDO}(T)$ weakens with
increasing λ(0); $\rho_{s}^{\rm TDO}(T)$ resembles the μSR data for
λ(0) = 250 nm, but still shows a clear deviation near T_(c). It is noted
that our samples have a regular geometry and the total uncertainties
from the λ(0) value and the G factor in the TDO measurements should be
limited to about 20

According to the γ model [29], which applies generally to clean two-band
superconductors, the total superfluid density can be written as
ρ_(s)(T) = γρ₁[Δ₁(0), T] + (1 − γ)ρ₂[Δ₂(0), T], where γ is the relative
weight of the contribution from the gap Δ₁. For a two-band system with
known density of states n_(μ) and Fermi velocities ν_(u) (μ = 1, 2), γ
is determined by γ = n₁⟨v₁²⟩/(n₁⟨v₁²⟩ + n₂⟨v₂²⟩). Here, ⟨v_(μ)²⟩
represents the average of the squared Fermi velocities over the
corresponding band. According to the electronic structure calculations
[7], several energy bands cross the Fermi energy in LaPt₄Ge₁₂. As an
approximation, we group the major energy bands into two effective bands
according to the values of Fermi velocity in each band, which gives
n₁ = 0.12, n₂ = 0.88, and ν₁/ν₂ ∼ 2.3. Thus, a value of γ = 0.42 is
estimated. The partial superfluid density ρ_(μ) and the energy gap Δ_(μ)
are calculated self-consistently using the quasiclassic Eilenberger
equations. Following the method described in Ref. [29], we fitted the
experimental $\rho_{s}^{\rm TDO}(T)$ with fitting parameters of γ and
λ_(μν), where λ_(μν) are the interband and intraband pairing couplings.
The best-fit results, with λ₁₁ = 0.63, λ₁₂ = 0.0025, and λ₂₂ = 0.20, are
shown in Fig. 3, which overlaps nicely with the experimental data. The
derived values of n₁ = 0.23 and γ = 0.4 are compatible with those
estimated directly from the band structure calculations. Such a fit
gives Δ₁(0) = 1.31k_(B)T_(c) and Δ₂(0) = 1.80k_(B)T_(c); the small gap
Δ₁(0) agrees well with that obtained from the exponential fits of
Δλ_(L)(T) at T ≪ T_(c), where Δ(0) = 1.39k_(B)T_(c). As shown in the
upper inset of Fig. 3, Δ₁(T) exhibits non-BCS behavior, the rapid
vanishing of Δ₁(T) leads to the upturn in $\rho_{s}^{\rm TDO}(T)$ near
T_(c).

Remarkably, the calculated partial superfluid density ρ₂(T) is nearly
identical to $\rho_{\mu}^{\rm sSR}(T)$ (see Fig. 3). Such an agreement
suggests that the small energy gap is likely destroyed by the small
magnetic field applied in the μSR experiments. In a two-band
superconductor with a vanishing λ₁₂, it was theoretically shown that the
small gap may be suppressed at a largely reduced effective upper
critical field [30]. The so-called "virtual" upper critical field
B_(c2)^(*), above which the vortex cores overlap and thus drive the
majority of the electrons in the associated band normal, can be
estimated by B_(c2)^(*)(0) ∼ B_(c2)⟨0|λ₁(0)v₂/Δ₂(0)ν₁|². For LaPt₄Ge₁₂,
a value of B_(c2)^(*)(0) ∼ 150 mT is estimated by using the parameters
derived above and B_(c2)(0) = 1.6 T [26]. The small B_(c2)^(*)(0) may
account for the discrepancy between ρ_(s)(T) determined from the TDO and
μSR experiments. In the TDO measurements, the sample is in the Meissner
state, which allows us to detect both the large and the small gaps. On
the other hand, the transverse-field muon-spin rotation (TF-μSR)
measurements were carried out in a field of 75 mT. In this case, the
small gap Δ₁ is largely suppressed and $\rho_{s}^{\rm sSR}(T)$ is
governed by the large gap, leading to a single-band BCS behavior with an
energy gap Δ₂. Our analysis suggests that LaPt₄Ge₁₂ is a marginal
two-band superconductor, the signatures of the small gap being easily
extinguished by magnetic fields due to its weak interband coupling. It
should be noted that the band structure of LaPt₄Ge₁₂ is more

Figure 3: (Color online) The normalized superfluid density ρ_(s)(T) of
LaPt₄Ge₁₂. The circles and triangles represent the experimental data
obtained by using the TDO method ($\rho_{s}^{\rm TDO}$) and the TF-μSR
measurements ($\rho_{s}^{\rm sSR}$), respectively. The solid line is a
fit based on the γ model; the derived partial superfluid densities ρ₁(T)
and ρ₂(T) are shown by the dashed and dashed-dotted lines, respectively.
Lower inset: The superfluid density $\rho_{s}^{\rm TDO}(T)$ calculated
with λ₀ = 80, 120, and 250 nm. Upper inset: Temperature dependence of
the gap amplitudes Δ₁(T) and Δ₂(T).

complex than the simplified scenario discussed above, which may explain
the difference in the fields required to suppress the small gap in the
measurements of field and temperature dependence of the penetration
depth. On the other hand, the interband impurity scattering may mix the
two bands, which may also lead to single-gap superconducting behavior
[31].

It was previously shown that the sister compound, PrPt₄Ge₁₂, is also a
two-gap superconductor with a relatively small admixture of a second gap
with reduced Δ₀/k_(B)T_(c)[15]. As a comparison, we plotted
$\rho_{\rm r}^{\rm TDO}(T)$ of LaPt₄Ge₁₂ and PrPt₄Ge₁₂ in Fig. 4, which
show different curvatures near T_(c). In Fig. 4, we reanalyzed the
$\rho_{\rm r}^{\rm TDO}$ of PrPt₄Ge₁₂ in terms of the γ model. The best
fit gives intraband coupling parameters of λ₁₁ = 0.59 and λ₂₂ = 0.18,
which are compatible with those of LaPt₄Ge₁₂. On the other hand, the
fitted interband coupling λ₁₂ = 0.07 is over one order of magnitude
larger than that of LaPt₄Ge₁. The enhanced interband coupling leads to a
more robust small energy gap, showing the same type of temperature
dependence for the two gaps [15]. For PrPt₄Ge₁₂, the gap parameters
derived from the γ model [Δ₁(0) = 0.88k_(B)T_(c),
Δ₂(0) = 2.17k_(B)T_(c), and γ = 0.15] are consistent with those fitted
by the α model [15]. These results suggest that the Pr-4f electrons may
not play a crucial role in the formation of SC, but enhance the
interband coupling in the MPt₄Ge₁₂ compounds. The latter factor might
arise from the local crystal field excitations at the Pr sites in
PrPt₄Ge₁₂. This finding is consistent with the local-density
approximation calculations, which show similar electronic structures for
the two compounds, where the main contribution of the density of states
at the Fermi level is from the Pt and Ge states [7]. Following the same
methods used in Ref. [15] for PrPt₄Ge₁₂, we also fit
$\rho_{\rm r}^{\rm TDO}(T)$ of LaPt₄Ge₁₂ with various gap functions (see
Fig. 4). It can be seen that all the other models give a poor fit to the
experimental data, further supporting the two-gap SC of LaPt₄Ge₁₂.

Our results may have broader implications for reconciling the diverse
behaviors of several multiband superconductors, in particular, those
with a weak interband coupling. A number of filled skutterudite
superconductors have been considered to be two-band superconductors on
the basis of various experiments [5, 6, 32], while in others the data
are not convincing [33, 34]. Other similar examples also include V₃Si,
La₂C₃, and MgCNi₃, where different experimental probes are not yet
conclusive on the order parameter symmetry [35]. Focusing on our
results, we find that, in LaPt₄Ge₁₂, the smaller gap is subtle and could
be easily suppressed by magnetic fields due to the weak interband
coupling. To further examine this scenario, it is desirable to study the
evolution of the gap structure by tuning the magnetic field or the
impurity scattering in LaPt₄Ge₁₂ and other superconductors with weak
interband coupling.

In summary, we have investigated the superconducting order parameter of
LaPt₄Ge₁₂ by measuring the penetration depth and the superfluid density
using two different methods. We found that Δλ_(L)(T) and
$\rho_{\rm r}^{\rm TDO}(T)$ from the TDO measurements in the Meissner
state can be consistently described by the two-band γ model with
Δ₁(0) = 1.31k_(B)T_(c) and Δ₂(0) = 1.80k_(B)T_(c). The small gap is
likely suppressed by the small magnetic field applied in the μSR
experiments. Our results suggest that LaPt₄Ge₁₂ is a two-band
superconductor where the critical field for suppressing the small gap is
significantly reduced due to the extraordinarily weak interband
coupling. The presence of 4f electrons in the Pr-based skutterudite
superconductors may enhance the interband coupling and, therefore, give
rise to more robust multiband behavior.

We are grateful to H. Rosner for sharing the band structure data with
us. We would also like to acknowledge useful discussions with H. Pfau,
Yu. Grin, C. Cao, and X. Lu. This work was partially supported by the
National Basic Research Program of China (No. 2011CBAA00103), the
National Natural Science Foundation of China (No. 11174245, No.
11474251, and No. 11504378), and the Fundamental Research Funds for the
Central Universities, the Max Planck Society under the auspices of the
Max Planck Partner Group of the Max Planck Institute for Chemical
Physics of Solids, Dresden. The work performed at the Swiss Muon Source
(SμS), Paul Scherrer Institut (PSI, Switzerland) was supported by the
NCCR program _Materials with Novel Electronic Properties_ (MaNEP)
sponsored by the Swiss National Science Foundation.

## References

* (1) B. C. Sales, in _Handbook on the Physics and Chemistry of Rare
Earths_, edited by K. A. Gschneidner, Jr., J.-C. G. Bunzli, and V. K.
Pecharsky (Elsevier, Amsterdam, 2003), Vol. 33, p. 1. * (2) W. Higemoto,
S. R. Saha, A. Koda, K. Ohishi, R. Kadono, Y. Aoki, H. Sugawara, and H.
Sato, Phys. Rev. B **75**, 020510(R) (2007).

Figure 4: (Color online) The normalized superfluid density
$\rho_{\rm r}^{\rm TDO}(T)$ for LaPt₄Ge₁₂ and PrPt₄Ge₁₂. The symbols and
solid lines represent the experimental data and their corresponding fits
using the two-band γ model. For comparison, we also fit
$\rho_{\rm r}^{\rm TDO}(T)$ of LaPt₄Ge₁₂, using various gap functions
allowed by the crystal symmetry [15].

* [3] K. Izawa, Y. Nakajima, J. Goryo, Y. Matsuda, S. Osaki, H.
Sugawara, H. Sato, P. Thalmeier, and K. Maki, Phys. Rev. Lett. **90**,
117001 (2003). * [4] E. E. M. Chia, M. B. Salamon, H. Sugawara, and H.
Sato, Phys. Rev. Lett. **91**, 247003 (2003). * [5] G. Seyfarth, J. P.
Brison, M.-A. Measson, D. Braithwaite, G. Lapertot, and J. Flouquet,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **97**, 236403 (2006). * [6] R. W. Hill, S. Li, M. B.
Maple, and L. Taillefer, Phys. Rev. Lett. **101**, 237005 (2008). * [7]
R. Gumeniuk, W. Schnelle, H. Rosner, M. Nicklas, A. Leithe-Jasper, and
Y. Grin, Phys. Rev. Lett. **100**, 017002 (2008); H. Rosner (private
communication). * [8] E. Bauer, A. Grytsiv, X.-Q. Chen, N.
Melnychenko-Koblyuk, G. Hilscher, H. Kaldarar, H. Michor, E. Royanian,
G. Giester, M. Rotter, R. Podloucky, and P. Rogl, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**99**, 217001 (2007). * [9] D. Kaczorowski and V. H. Tran, Phys. Rev. B
**77**, 180504(R) (2008). * [10] E. Bauer, X.-Q. Chen, P. Rogl, G.
Hilscher, H. Michor, E. Royanian, R. Podloucky, G. Giester, O. Sologub,
and A. P. Goncalves, Phys. Rev. B **78**, 064516 (2008). * [11] A.
Maisuradze, M. Nicklas, R. Gumeniuk, C. Baines, W. Schnelle, H. Rosner,
A. Leithe-Jasper, Yu. Grin, and R. Khasanov, Phys. Rev. Lett. **103**,
147002 (2009). * [12] A. Maisuradze, M. Nicklas, R. Khasanov, R.
Gumeniuk, M. Nicklas, H. Rosner, A. Leithe-Jasper, Yu. Grin, A. Amato,
and P. Thalmeier, Phys. Rev. B **82**, 024524 (2010). * [13] J. Zhang,
D. E. MacLaughlin, A. D. Hillier, Z. F. Ding, K. Huang, M. B. Maple, and
L. Shu, Phys. Rev. B **91**, 104523 (2015). * [14] L. S. Sharath
Chandra, M. K. Chattopadhyay, and S. B. Roy, Philos. Mag. **92**, 3866
(2012). * [15] J. L. Zhang, Y. Chen, L. Jiao, R. Gumeniuk, M. Nicklas,
Y. H. Chen, L. Yang, B. H. Fu, W. Schnelle, H. Rosner, A. Leithe-Jasper,
Y. Grin, F. Steglich, and H. Q. Yuan, Phys. Rev. B **87**, 064502
(2013). * [16] Y. Nakamura, H. Okazaki, R. Yoshida, T. Wakita, H.
Takeya, K. Hirata, M. Hirai, Y. Muraoka, and T. Yokoya, Phys. Rev. B
**86**, 014521 (2012). * [17] F. Kanetake, H. Mukuda, Y. Kitaoka, H.
Sugawara, K. Magishi, K. M. Itoh, and E. E. Haller, Physica C **470**,
S703 (2010); J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **79**, 063702 (2010). * [18] R.
Gumeniuk, H. Borrmann, A. Ormeci, H. Rosner, W. Schnelle, M. Nicklas,
Yu. Grin, and A. Leithe-Jasper, Z. Krystallogr. **225**, 531 (2010). *
[19] R. Prozorov, R. W. Giannetta, A. Carrington, and F. M.
Araujo-Moreira, Phys. Rev. B **62**, 115 (2000). * [20] E. H. Brandt,
Phys. Rev. B **68**, 054506 (2003). * [21] E. H. Brandt, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **78**, 2208 (1997). * [22] A. Maisuradze, R. Gumeniuk, W.
Schnelle, M. Nicklas, C. Baines, R. Khasanov, A. Amato, and A.
Leithe-Jasper, Phys. Rev. B **86**, 174513 (2012). * [23] M. H. S. Amin,
M. Franz, and I. Affleck, Phys. Rev. Lett. **84**, 5864 (2000). * [24]
I. L. Landau and H. Keller, Physica C **466**, 131 (2007). * [25] A.
Maisuradze, R. Khasanov, A. Shengelaya, and H. Keller, J. Phys.:
Condens. Matter **21**, 075701 (2009). * [26] See Supplemental Material
at http://link.aps.org/supplemental/10.1103/PhysRevB.92.220503 for
additional information on the superconducting upper-critical field of
LaPt₄Ge₁₂. * [27] K. Ohishi, T. Muranaka, J. Akimitsu, A. Koda, W.
Higemoto, and R. Kadono, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **72**, 29 (2003). * [28] R.
Prozorov and R. W. Giannetta, Supercond. Sci. Technol. **19**, R41
(2006), and references therein. * [29] V. G. Kogan, C. Martin, and R.
Prozorov, Phys. Rev. B **80**, 014507 (2009). * [30] L. Tewordt and D.
Fay, Phys. Rev. B **68**, 092503 (2003). * [31] Y. Ohashi, Physica C
**412-414**, 41 (2004) * [32] D. T. Adroja, A. D. Hillier, J.-G. Park,
E. A. Goremychkin, K. A. McEwen, N. Takeda, R. Osborn, B. D. Rainford,
and R. M. Ibberson, Phys. Rev. B **72**, 184503 (2005). * [33] E. E. M.
Chia, M. B. Salamon, H. Sugawara, and H. Sato, Phys. Rev. B **69**,
180509(R) (2004). * [34] L. Shu, D. E. MacLaughlin, W. P. Beyermann, R.
H. Heffner, G. D. Morris, O. O. Bernal, F. D. Callaghan, J. E. Sonier,
W. M. Yuhasz, N. A. Frederick, and M. B. Maple, Phys. Rev. B **79**,
174511 (2009). * [35] M. Zehetmayer, Supercond. Sci. Technol. **26**,
043001 (2013), and references therein.
