# Thermal conductivity of partially substituted YBa2Cu3O7-_d_

R. K. Williams, P. M. Martin, and J. O. Scarbrough

Oak Ridge National Laboratory, P.O. Box 2008, Oak Ridge, Tennessee
37831-6116

24 August 1998129 October 199824 August 1998129 October 1998

###### Abstract

Partially substituted YBa2Cu3O7-_d_ (Y123) samples are produced by
replacing part of the Y with appropriate rare-earth elements and/or part
of the Ba with Sr. Partial substitution has little effect on the
normal-state resistivity or superconducting transition temperature, but
should reduce the phonon part of the thermal conductivity, _l_p .
Ambient temperature measurements on several polycrystalline samples show
a thermal conductivity, l, reduction relative to Y123. The effect
persists to lower temperatures and data for Y123 and
Y0.5Yb0.5Ba2Cu3O7-_d_ show that the l peak at _T_c/2 is also affected.
[S0163-1829(99)03918-1]

## Introduction

Several studies [1-3] have shown that the thermal conductivity l of
YBa2Cu3O7-_d_ (Y123) does not undergo a sudden change at the
superconducting transition temperature _T_c , and reaches a maximum at
roughly _T_c/2. The two explanations that have been proposed for this
behavior are (a) enhancement of the phonon conductivity due to the
disappearance of phonon scattering by the unpaired electrons and (b)
electronic energy transport at temperatures well below _T_c . At present
the electronic-transport mechanism that is based on _d_-wave
superconductivity [4-8] appears to be more generally accepted.

In a recently published study [9] of the thermal conductivity of
YBa2Cu4O8 (Y124) we suggested that both electrons and phonons make
significant contributions to the l of superconducting Y124 and Y123. For
Y123, it seemed that the relative roles of phonons and electrons might
be experimentally identified by making l measurements on partially
substituted Y123. The purpose of this paper is to report l measurements
on several Y123 materials in which Sr replaces some of the Ba and Dy or
Yb replaces some of the Y. In particular, the measurements on
Y0.5Yb0.5Ba2Cu3O7-_d_ show that interesting low-temperature effects can
be produced by partial substitution.

## Sample preparation and properties

The polycrystalline Y123 and partially substituted Y123 samples were
prepared by mixing and grinding the oxides, firing in oxygen at 950
degC, regrinding to form a sinternable powder that was then pressed into
pellets and sintered at 950 degC. Phase purity, as determined by x-ray
diffraction was generally greater than 99

## Experimental results

Ambient temperature l data for five partially substituted Y123 samples
are shown in Fig. 2. Data for three Y123 samples [11] are included for
comparison. Barium carbonate was used to prepare these samples and
carbon contents were typically 800-1500 ppm. The best sample [2]
contained a slight excess of Ba, 2.005. Excess Ba lowers the resistivity
of Y123. Lower-temperature data for Y123 and Y0.5Yb0.5Ba2Cu3O7-_d_ are
shown in Fig. 3. Data from the cut-bar l apparatus are included in Fig.
3. The results for two measurements on samples from different batches of
partially substituted Y123 differ by 4

## Discussion

The data presented in Fig. 2 show that partial substitution reduces both
the magnitude and temperature dependence of the l. The resistivities of
these samples varied from 638 to 1100x10-8 O m, but the l data do not
show much correlation with resistivity. This indicates that the phonon l
component _l_p dominates. Using the Sommerfeld-Lorenz number L_(o) to
make a correction for the electronic component _l_e , yields estimates
of _l_p for Y123 and the partially substituted samples.

At 295 K, the average _l_p value for Y123 is 2.73

  ------------------------------ ------------------ --------------
                                  Room Temperature  
       Nominal Composition        (% Theoretical)    Resistivitya
   Y0.5Yb0.5Ba1.5Ra0.6Cu3O7−_δ_         89.8             1077
   Y0.5Yb0.5Ba1.5Ra0.6Cu3O7−_δ_         90.1             1101
   Y0.2Yb0.5Ba1.5Ra0.6Cu3O7−_δ_         87.9             638
      DyBa1.5Ra0.6Cu3O7−_δ_             85.7             695
      Y0.5Yb0.5Ba2Cu3O7−_δ_             97.5             883
  ------------------------------ ------------------ --------------

Table 1: Characteristics of cut-bar thermal conductivity samples.

W m-1 K-1 (+-3

The lower-temperature l data are shown in Fig. 3. The l values for Y123
reach a maximum at 0.3_T__c_ and the maximum has usually been observed
at about 0.5_T__c_.2,3 Also, our maximum l value is about twice as large
as the earlier results. Our apparatus was tested by making measurements
on a NIST9 standard, so there is not much reason to doubt their
validity. One explanation for this difference is that we had a better
(lower carbon) sample than those available to earlier investigators.
Previous studies on both metallic elements and insulating compounds have
shown that the l maximum can increase and shift to lower temperatures as
the defect concentration is reduced. Our results on Y124 (Ref. 9) also
seem to show this behavior.

The Yb for Y partial substitution reduces the maximum l by  50

the Ba²⁺ sites constitute charge perturbations that should scatter
unpaired electrons.

###### Acknowledgements.

This research was sponsored in part by the U.S. Department of Energy,
Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy, and by the Laboratory
Directed Research and Development Program of Oak Ridge National
Laboratory. Funding was provided under Contract No. DE-AC05-96OR22464
with Lockheed Martin Energy Research Corporation.

## References

* [1] A. Jezowski, K. Rogacki, R. Horyn, and J. Klamut, Physica C
**153-155**, 1347 (1988). * [2] S. J. Hagen, Z. Z. Wang, and N. P. Ong,
Phys. Rev. B **40**, 9389 (1989). * [3] J. L. Cohn, S. A. Wolf, T. A.
Vanderah, V. Selvamanickam, and K. Salama, Physica C **192**, 435
(1992). * [4] Y. Pogorelov, M. A. Arranz, R. Villar, and S. Vieira,
Phys. Rev. B **51**, 15 474 (1995). * [5] K. Krishana, J. M. Harris, and
N. P. Ong, Phys. Rev. Lett. **75**, 3529 (1995). * [6] T. Wolkhausen,
Physica C **234**, 57 (1994). * [7] M. Houssa and M. Ausloos, Physica C
**257**, 321 (1996). * [8] L. Tewordt and T. Wolkhausen, Solid State
Commun. **70**, 839 (1989). * [9] R. K. Williams, J. O. Scarbrough, J.
M. Schmitz, and J. R. Thompson, Phys. Rev. B **57**, 10 923 (1998). *
[10] R. K. Williams, R. K. Nanstad, R. S. Graves, and R. G. Berggren, J.
Nucl. Mater. **115**, 211 (1983). * [11] D. W. Yarbrough, R. K.
Williams, and D. R. Shockley, in _Thermal Conductivity 22_, edited by T.
W. Tong (Technomic, Lancaster, 1994), p. 554. * [12] J. Callaway, Phys.
Rev. **122**, 787 (1961). * [13] T. B. Lindemer, E. D. Specht, P. M.
Martin, and M. L. Flitcroft, Physica C **255**, 65 (1995).

Figure 3: Thermal-conductivity data for polycrystalline Y123 and
Y_(0.5)Y_(0.5)Ba₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ). The lower-temperature measurements were
made in a guarded longitudinal heat-flow apparatus (Ref. 9) and data
obtained in an ambient temperature cut-bar apparatus are included to
demonstrate accuracy and batch-to-batch variability.

Figure 4: Estimated phonon thermal-resistivity curves for Y123 and
Y_(0.5)Y_(0.5)Ba₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ). The Sommerfeld-Lorenz number and the data
shown in Fig. 1 were used to correct for electronic transport.
