# Evolution of ground state and upper critical field in
R1-_x_Gd_x_Ni2B_2C (_R_ = Lu, Y):

Coexistence of superconductivity and spin-glass state

S. L. Bud’ko, V. G. Kogan, H. Hodovanets, S. Ran, S. A. Moser, M. J.
Lampe, and P. C. Canfield

Ames Laboratory, US DOE and Department of Physics and Astronomy, Iowa
State University, Ames, Iowa 50011, USA

Received 8 September 2010; published 17 November 2010

###### Abstract

We report effects of local magnetic moment, Gd³⁺, doping (_x_ ≤ 0.3) on
superconducting and magnetic properties of the closely related
Lu_(1 − x)Gd_(x)Ni₂B₂C and Y_(1 − x)Gd_(x)Ni₂B₂C series. The
superconducting transition temperature decreases and the heat capacity
jump associated with it drops rapidly with Gd doping; qualitative
changes with doping are also observed in the temperature-dependent upper
critical field behavior, and a region of coexistence of
superconductivity and spin-glass state is delineated on the _x_-_T_
phase diagram. The evolution of superconducting properties can be
understood within Abrikosov-Gor’kov theory of magnetic impurities in
superconductors taking into account the paramagnetic effect on upper
critical field with additional contributions particular for the family
under study.

pacs: DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.82.174513 + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL
REVIEW B **82**, 174513 (2010)

## I Introduction

With discoveries of new superconducting materials, classical results on
effects of nonmagnetic and magnetic impurities in superconductors [1, 2]
are being continuously tested and augmented. For example, the searches
for impurity-induced states in superconductors [3] and for
superconducting quantum critical points [4, 5, 6] are few such topics.
Unfortunately, in some studies of superconductors with magnetic
impurities the emphasis is frequently on just the superconducting
properties whereas the state of magnetic subsystem is often neglected.

The rare-earth nickel borocarbides (_R_Ni2B2C, R = rare earth) present a
rare opportunity to study, within the same family, superconductivity,
complex, local moment, magnetism, and their coexistence, as well as
physics of strongly correlated, heavy fermion materials. [7, 8, 9, 10]
In this work we concentrate on thermodynamic and magnetotransport
properties of LuNi₂B₂C and YNi₂B₂C superconductors with the nonmagnetic
rare earths (Lu or Y) partially substituted by magnetic moment bearing
gadolinium. Pure LuNi₂B₂C and YNi₂B₂C have a conveniently high
superconducting transition temperatures, _T_(c)_, and are readily
available as well-characterized single crystals. The details of the
superconducting pairing in these materials are still debated with exotic
scenarios being examined. [11, 12, 13, 14, 15] Since the Gd³⁺ ion has a
spherically symmetric, half-filled 4f shell, and therefore virtually no
crystal electric field effects associated with it, using gadolinium as a
magnetic rare-earth dopant may simplify the problem at hand. Although in
resistivity and low field dc magnetic susceptibility the features
associated with a magnetic subsystem, if located below _T_(c)_, are
often obscured by strong superconducting signal, it was shown [16, 17,
18] that in this situation heat capacity measurements can provide a
valuable insight. So far there were several publications, mainly on
polycrystalline samples, on physical properties of Y_(1 − x)Gd_(x)Ni₂B₂C
(Refs. [19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25] and Lu_(1 − x)Gd_(x)Ni₂B₂C (Refs.
[21, 26, 22, 23, 24, 25]) solid solutions. It is worth noting that
although different studies generally agree on the rate of suppression of
_T_(c)_ (on the pure YNi₂B₂C side) and change in the Neel temperature,
_T_(N)_, (on the pure GdNi₂B₂C side) with x, separation (absence of
coexistence) of the superconducting and antiferromagnetic order in
Y_(1 − x)Gd_(x)Ni₂B₂C near x = 0.3 was alluded to in Ref. [25] whereas a
coexistence of antiferromagnetism and superconductivity at some region
of intermediate concentrations was suggested in Refs. [20, 23].
Additionally, nonmonotonic temperature dependence of the upper critical
field, _H_(c2)_(_T_), was reported for Lu_(0.88)Gd_(0.12)Ni₂B₂C. [27]

A comparative study of the effects of Gd doping on _T_(c)_,
_H_(c2)_(_T_) and the state of magnetic sublattice in
Lu_(1 − x)Gd_(x)Ni₂B₂C and Y_(1 − x)Gd_(x)Ni₂B₂C has the potential to
clarify the effect of magnetic impurities on the superconducting state
in the rare-earth nickel borocarbides.

## II Experiment

All samples in this study, Lu_(1 − x)Gd_(x)Ni₂B₂C and
Y_(1 − x)Gd_(x)Ni₂B₂C series, were single crystals, grown using the Ni₂B
high temperature growth technique. [7, 28, 29]_As-grown_ crystals were
used for this work. Gd concentrations in both series were evaluated
through Curie-Weiss fits of the high-temperature part of magnetic
susceptibility, that was measured using a Quantum Design, Magnetic
Property Measurement System superconducting quantum interference device
magnetometer. For resistance measurements a standard, four probe, ac
technique (_f_ = 16 Hz, I = 0.2-2 mA) with the current flowing in the
_ab_ plane, close to _I_∥_a_, was used. For these measurements platinum
wires were attached to the samples using EpoTek H20E silver epoxy and
the measurements were performed in a Quantum Design, Physical Property
Measurement System (PPMS-14) instrument with ac transport (ACT) and He-3
options. _H_(c2)_(_T_) data were obtained from temperature-dependent and
magnetic field-dependent resistance measurements. For these measurements
_H∥c_ direction of the applied field was kept for all samples.
Heat-capacity measurements were performed in PPMS-14 instrument with
He-3 option utilizing the relaxation technique with fitting of the whole
temperature response of the microcalorimeter.

Figure 1: (Color online) Gd concentration evaluated from a Curie-Weiss
fit of the high-temperature susceptibility vs nominal Gd concentration
in R_(1 − x)Gd_(x)Ni₂B₂C, R=Lu, Y. Dashed lines are linear fits with
intercept fixed to zero. (See text for details.)

Figure 2: (Color online) Normalized resistivity, ρ^(′)ρ_(1000 K) for (a)
Lu_(1 − x)Gd_(x)Ni₂B₂C (x=0, 0.055, 0.13, 0.19, 0.27) and (b)
Y_(1 − x)Gd_(x)Ni₂B₂C (x=0, 0.10, 0.14, 0.21, 0.26, 0.30). Arrows show
the direction of increasing x, insets: low-temperature part of the data.
Panel (c): normalized (to the values for the parent compounds) T_(c) as
a function of Gd concentration x for R_(1 − x)Gd_(x)Ni₂B₂C, R=Lu, Y;
data for Lu(Ni_(1 − x)Co_(x))₂B₂C from Ref. [34] are included for
comparison. Inset: RRR vs x for the same three series.

where ρ_(n) is the normal-state resistivity just above the
superconducting transition, decreases and the superconducting transition
temperature, T_(c), decreases as well [Fig. 2(c), inset]. The
superconducting critical temperature determined from the onset of the
resistive superconducting transition for Lu_(1 − x)Gd,Ni₂B₂C and
Y_(1 − x)Gd,Ni₂B₂C is plotted as a function of Gd concentration in Fig.
2(c). The T_(c)(x) dependence is close to linear with a downturn seen in
the case of Y_(1 − x)Gd,Ni₂B₂C for the highest presented doping level.
This behavior is consistent with Abrikosov-Gor’kov (AG) theory of pair
breaking on magnetic impurities.[2] The rate of T_(c) suppression is
similar for two R_(1 − x)Gd,Ni₂B₂C series, being slightly higher for
R=Lu. This difference is probably due to the additional contribution of
the effect of nonmagnetic scattering in superconductors with anisotropic
gap.[30, 31, 32, 33] Indeed, RRR (that can be, by Matthiessen’s rule,
roughly taken as a caliper of scattering, with lower RRR corresponding
to higher scattering) decreases with Gd doping faster in the case of
R=Lu [Fig. 2(c), inset], that is consistent with larger lattice mismatch
(causing stronger scattering) for the Gd/Lu (in comparison to Gd/Y)
substitution. For comparison, the data for T_(c)(x) evolution in
Lu(Ni_(1 − x)Co)_(x)B₂C from Ref. [34] are included in the same plot. It
is worth noting that the T_(c) suppression rate is higher for Co doping
to the Ni site than for Gd doping to the Lu(Y) site, even though among
local moment rare-earth (e.g., excluding Ce and Yb) Gd³⁺ (and Eu²⁺) has
the highest de Gennes factor, (g_(J) − 1)²J(J + 1), and the strongest
T_(c) suppression rate.[7, 10] The reason for such a strong effect of Co
substitution on T_(c) is at least twofold: first, Co substitution for Ni
is not isoelectronic, it induces changes in the density of states at the
Fermi level, therefore causing changes in T_(c);[35, 36, 37] second, for
similar concentrations, x, scattering appears to be stronger for Co
substitution [Fig. 2(c), inset], thus adding to the T_(c) suppressing
rate.

Zero field, temperature-dependent heat capacity, C_(p)(T), was measured
for the Lu_(1 − x)Gd,Ni₂B₂C and Y_(1 − x)Gd,Ni₂B₂C series in order to
get additional insight into the evolution of the magnetic properties
with Gd doping. The results are presented in Fig. 3. For the parent
compounds, and several lower Gd concentrations in each series, a jump in
C_(p)(T), at the superconducting transition temperature is clearly seen.
This jump broadens with Gd doping thus the value of ΔC_(p) at T_(c) was
evaluated by the isoentropic construct. Figure 4 shows the heat capacity
jump inferred from the isoentropic construct for the Lu_(1 − x)Gd,Ni₂B₂C
and Y_(1 − x)Gd,Ni₂B₂C series normalized to the value of the jump for
the parent compounds, LuNi₂B₂C and YNi₂B₂C, respectively, plotted as a
function of normalized superconducting transition temperature,
T_(c)/T_(c0). As expected, the experimental points lay below the BCS law
of corresponding states line,[38, 39] however, these points also appear
to be below the line obtained within the AG theory of pair breaking from
magnetic impurities[40] as well. Similar behavior of ΔC_(p)/ΔC_(p0) vs
T_(c)/T_(c0) was observed decades ago for Kondo impurities (with
temperature-dependent pair breaking) in superconductors.[41, 42] In our
case the dopant, Gd³⁺, is a good local magnetic moment ion for which
hybridization and Kondo-related physics are not expected. There are
several possible explanations of such behavior that do not invoke the
Kondo effect. Qualitatively similar behavior (approximated by
ΔC_(p)∝T_(c)²) was observed

Figure 4: (Color online) Normalized jump in heat capacity at T_(c) vs
normalized T_(c) for the Lu_(1 − x)Gd,Ni₂B₂C and Y_(1 − x)Gd,Ni₂B₂C
series (for pure LuNi₂B₂C and YNi₂B₂C ΔC_(p) at T_(c) values are 665
mJ/mol K and 460 mJ/mol K, respectively). Dashed lines correspond to BCS
law of corresponding states, Abrikosov-Gor’kov magnetic scattering and
γ=0 (strong spin-dependent scattering) limit of Shiba’s theory (Ref.
[43]). See text for more details.

Figure 3: (Color online) Temperature-dependent heat capacity for (a)
Lu_(1 − x)Gd,Ni₂B₂C (x=0, 0.055, 0.13, 0.19, 0.27, 0.33) and (b)
Y_(1 − x)Gd,Ni₂B₂C (x=0, 0.10, 0.14, 0.21, 0.26, 0.30). Arrows show
examples of how $T_{\rm{max}}$ and T_(c) are determined.

in Y_(1 − x)_R_Ni₂B₂C (R=Gd, Dy, Ho, and Er)²³ and was attributed to a
combination of weak-coupling results of magnetic pair-breaking AG theory
with strong-coupling corrections. Alternatively, a Hartree-Fock approach
by Shiba⁴³ yields a band of possible ΔC_(p)/ΔC_(p0) vs T_(c)/T_(c0)
values that is defined within this approach by the value of the
parameter γ, related to the strength of spin-flip scattering. For γ→ 1
(weak scattering) the AG results reproduced. The limit of γ→ 0 describes
strong spin-dependent scattering. Our experimental data lay close to
this γ→ 0 limit (Fig. 4). Another possible explanation may be a combined
effect of magnetic and non-magnetic scattering⁴⁴ with a notion that the
gap parameter in borocarbides is anisotropic. This last possibility is
appealing but requires more theoretical work due to complexity of the
theoretical results and a number of independent parameters required for
a realistic description.

Our previous data on the Yb_(1 − x)Gd_(x)Ni₂B₂C and
Lu_(1 − x)Gd_(x)Ni₂B₂C series¹⁸ provide experimental evidence that for
Gd concentration x≤ 0.3 the long-range magnetic order observed in pure
GdNi₂B₂C and the high Gd end of the series, evolves into a spin glass
(SG). A broad maximum in heat capacity marked as T_(max) in Fig. 3 is
associated with a spin-glass transition, with T_(max)= 1.5T_(f) for
Ruderman-Kittel

Figure 5: (Color online) T-x phase diagram for the
Lu_(1 − x)Gd_(x)Ni₂B₂C (filled and partially filled symbols) and
Y_(1 − x)Gd_(x)Ni₂B₂C (open symbols) series. Symbols: squares T_(c) from
onset and offset of the resistive transitions; circles—T_(c) from heat
capacity; triangles—T_(max) from heat capacity. Dashed lines are guides
for the eyes. Dotted-dashed line approximates spin-glass phase
(crossover) line.

Figure 6: (Color online) (a) Examples of magnetic field-dependent
resistance of Lu_(0.81)Gd_(0.10)Ni₂B₂C single crystal measured at
several constant temperatures for H∥c. Onset and offset criteria of
superconducting transition are illustrated. (b) Examples of
temperature-dependent resistance of the same sample measured in
different applied magnetic fields. (c) Temperature-dependent upper
critical field of Lu_(0.81)Gd_(0.10)Ni₂B₂C for H∥c. Circles—onset,
triangles—offset, open symbols are from R(T)|_(H) scans, filled symbols
are from R(H)|_(T) scans.

Kasuya-Yoshida spin glasses,[45] where T_(f) is the spin-glass freezing
temperature.

The other feature in temperature-dependent heat-capacity data (Fig. 3)
is a broad minimum. This minimum exists for all of our x>0 data and is
most probably just a crossover between the low-temperature
magnetism-dominated behavior and high-temperature behavior dominated by
electron and phonon contributions.

Resistivity and heat-capacity data together allow us to construct the
x-T phase diagram for the Lu_(1 − x)Gd_(x)Ni₂B₂C and
Y_(1 − x)Gd_(x)Ni₂B₂C series (Fig. 5). As mentioned above, there is a
slight difference in T_(c) variation with x between R=Lu and R=Y. The
other salient temperature, T_(max), has very similar x dependence in
both cases. It has to be mentioned that probing magnetic signatures at
temperatures below superconducting transition often is not a simple
task. In electric/thermoelectric and low field magnetic susceptibility
measurements the superconducting signal dominates. Magnetic field needed
to suppress superconductivity might be large enough to alter fragile,
low temperature, magnetic state (as it happens, e.g., in materials with
field-induced quantum critical point[46]), or at a minimum, shift the
phase line. Zero-field heat-capacity measurements clearly reveal
(complex) long-range magnetic order below T_(c)[17, 47]. In the case of
spin-glass transition heat capacity does not have clear anomaly at the
freezing temperature, T_(f), instead a broad maximum is detected at
≈1.5T_(f)[45]. Having this in mind, we can approximately outline (by the
dotted-dashed line in Fig. 5) the boundary of the spin-glass phase.
Since, at least in zero field resistivity, that was measured in this
work down to the temperatures below the SG line for several Gd
concentrations, no re-entrance behavior is observed, superconductivity
coexists with the SG state at low temperatures. For slightly higher Gd
concentrations, after superconductivity is just suppressed, [as it was
mentioned for Lu_(1 − x)Gd_(x)Ni₂B₂C (Ref. [18])] spin-glass-related
behavior is observed both in heat capacity and magnetic susceptibility.
On further Gd doping, a long-range magnetic order is established.

### B. Upper critical field

The upper critical field was measured resistively, combining magnetic
field-dependent data taken at constant temperature and
temperature-dependent data taken in fixed magnetic field. Examples of
such data for Lu_(0.81)Gd_(0.10)Ni₂B₂C (H∥c) are shown in Figs. 6(a) and
6(b). Re-entrant R(T) curves for a few, relatively high, values of
magnetic field [Fig. 6(b)] are worth noting. Results obtained from both
data sets are consistent, the resulting H_(c2)(T) curves for two
different criteria are shown in Fig. 6(c). The aforementioned re-entrant
R(T) curves are the results of the horizontal (H=constant) cuts through
the shallow maximum in the H_(c2)(T).

The H_(c2)(T) data for the Lu_(1 − x)Gd_(x)Ni₂B₂C and
Y_(1 − x)Gd_(x)Ni₂B₂C series are presented in Fig. 7. The evolution of
the upper critical field behavior with Gd doping is similar for both
series: the behavior changes from monotonic with temperature for the
parent and lightly doped compounds to the behavior with shallow maximum
for higher Gd concentrations. This evolution is seen better yet when
plotted in normalized coordinates (Fig. 8). Qualitatively similar
evolution of H_(c2)(T) was theoretically described (in dirty limit) by
taking into account paramagnetic effect.[48, 49] use of dirty limit for
this materials is consistent with previous studies.[34] The quantitative
description of H_(c2)(T) within a paramagnetic effect approach requires
detailed knowledge of the paramagnetic contribution to susceptibility
below T_(c), which is a tedious task. On careful examination of Fig.
8(b) we can see that a noticeable broad maximum in H_(c2)(T) is observed
for x=0.14 and x=0.21, however, this maximum practically disappears for
the next concentration, x=0.26, for which H_(c2)(T) is monotonic with a
tendency to saturation below T/T_(c)≈ 0.5. For this concentration (at
zero field) the T_(c) value is close to T_(f), the SG freezing
temperature (Fig. 5). For spin glasses the paramagnetic component of
susceptibility decreases below T_(f) (Ref. [45]) so that H_(c2)
suppression is expected to be weaker, in agreement with our observation.
Similar arguments were used in Ref. [50] for interpretation of H_(c2)(T)
data below the Neel temperature.

Figure 9 presents the slope of the H_(c2)(T) in the limit of H→ 0 as a
function of T_(c) in zero field for the Lu_(1 − x)Gd_(x)Ni₂B₂C and
Y_(1 − x)Gd_(x)Ni₂B₂C series. The observed behavior can be roughly
approximated as dH_(c2)/dT∝T_(c). It is

Figure 7: (Color online) Temperature-dependent upper critical field
(H∥c) for (a) Lu_(1 − x)Gd_(x)Ni₂B₂C (x=0, 0.055, 0.13, 0.19) and (b)
Y_(1 − x)Gd_(x)Ni₂B₂C (x=0, 0.10, 0.14, 0.21, 0.26). Circles and
triangles correspond to the onset and offset criteria, respectively.
Insets show the same data on a semilog scale.

worth noting that for several recently studied superconducting-as the
behavior is qualitatively different: for Ce_(1 − x)La_(x)CoIn₅,
dH_(c2)/dT is approximately constant for H∥c and has a factor of two
larger absolute value with a slight positive slope for H∥a[51]; for
neutron-irradiated MgB₂, dH_(c2)/dT is approximately independent of
T_(c) (Ref. [52]) whereas for carbon-doped MgB₂, |dH_(c2)/dT| rapidly
increases with decrease in T_(c) (Ref. [53]) (opposite to what is
observed here); for Co-doped LuNi₂B₂C the derivative decreases in the
absolute value only by ≈20

It is worth mentioning that dH_(c2)/dT∝T_(c) is predicted for isotropic
s-wave materials in the clean limit. As discussed above, such
description appears not to be pertinent to the borocarbides. On the
other hand, such proportionality is a property of the AG gapless state
[2, 35, 34] and is present (at least approximately) in the data from
elemental La doped with Gd (Ref. [55]) (the data in the publication need
to be reanalyzed to extract the derivatives). Recently, similar behavior
was observed in 1111 family of Fe-As superconductors and was attributed
to pair breaking in anisotropic superconductors.[54]

Following Ref. [54], |d(dH_(c2)/dT)/dT_(c)| ∝ πϕ₀k_(B)²/ℏ²υ², where ϕ₀
is the flux quantum, k_(B) is the Boltzmann constant, and υ is the Fermi
velocity. Since |d(dH_(c2)/dT)/dT_(c)| = 0.25 kOe/K² (Fig. 9), the order
of magnitude estimate gives υ∼ 3× 10⁷ cm/s. This estimate is consistent
with the values used to describe superconductivity in parent LuNi₂B₂C
and YNi₂B₂C.[56, 57]

## IV Summary

Gd doping of LuNi₂B₂C and YNi₂B₂C results in T_(c) suppression,
consistent with AG magnetic pair breaking with possible additional
contribution from nonmagnetic scattering in materials with anisotropic
gaps. For both series T_(c) is suppressed to zero by 30−35

All in all, the Lu_(1 − x)Gd_(x)Ni₂B₂C and Y_(1 − x)Gd_(x)Ni₂B₂C series
present viable systems for studies of magnetic pair breaking in
anisotropic superconductors and interplay of superconductivity and
spin-glass state.

## Acknowledgment

Work at the Ames Laboratory was supported by the U.S. Department of
Energy-Basic Energy Sciences under Contract No. DE-AC02-07CH11358. This
manuscript was finalized during the Ames floods of 2010, the second
"hundred year floods" in a 15 year time span.

Figure 9: (Color online) dH_(c2)/dT in the H→ 0 limit as a function of
T_(c) in zero field for the Lu_(1 − x)Gd_(x)Ni₂B₂C (circles) and
Y_(1 − x)Gd_(x)Ni₂B₂C (triangles) series. Dashed line is a guide to the
eyes.

## References

* [1] P. W. Anderson, Phys. Rev. Lett. **3**, 325 (1959). * [2] A. A.
Abrikosov and L. P. Gor’kov, Zh. Eksp. Teor. Fiz. **39**, 1781 (1960)
[Sov. Phys. JETP **12**, 1243 (1961)]. * [3] A. V. Balatsky, I. Vekhter,
and J.-X. Zhu, Rev. Mod. Phys. **78**, 373 (2006). * [4] R. Ramazashvili
and P. Coleman, Phys. Rev. Lett. **79**, 3752 (1997). * [5] V. P. Mineev
and M. Sigrist, Phys. Rev. B **63**, 172504 (2001). * [6] N. Shah and A.
Lopatin, Phys. Rev. B **76**, 094511 (2007). * [7] P. C. Canfield, P. L.
Gammel, and D. J. Bishop, Phys. Today **51**(10), 40 (1998). * [8] K.-H.
Muller and V. N. Narozhnyi, Rep. Prog. Phys. **64**, 943 (2001). * [9]
K. H. Muller, G. Fuchs, S. L. Drechsler, and V. N. Narozhnyi, in
_Handbook of Magnetic Materials_, edited by K. H. J. Buschow
(North-Holland, Amsterdam, 2002), Vol. 14, p. 199. * [10] S. L. Bud’ko
and P. C. Canfield, C. R. Phys. **7**, 56 (2006). * [11] G. Wang and K.
Maki, Phys. Rev. B **58**, 6493 (1998). * [12] K. Maki, P. Thalmeier,
and H. Won, Phys. Rev. B **65**, 140502 (2002). * [13] Q. Yuan and P.
Thalmeier, Phys. Rev. B **68**, 174501 (2003). * [14] Q. Yuan, H.-Y.
Chen, H. Won, S. Lee, K. Maki, P. Thalmeier, and C. S. Ting, Phys. Rev.
B **68**, 174510 (2003). * [15] K. Maki, H. Won, and S. Haas, Phys. Rev.
B **69**, 012502 (2004). * [16] R. Movshovich, M. F. Hundley, J. D.
Thompson, P. C. Canfield, B. K. Cho, and A. V. Chubukov, Physica C
**227**, 381 (1994). * [17] R. A. Ribeiro, S. L. Bud’ko, and P. C.
Canfield, J. Magn. Magn. Mater. **267**, 216 (2003). * [18] S. L.
Bud’ko, J. D. Strand, N. E. Anderson, Jr., R. A. Ribeiro, and P. C.
Canfield, Phys. Rev. B **68**, 104417 (2003). * [19] M. E. Massalami, S.
L. Bud’ko, B. Giordanengo, M. B. Fontes, J. C. Mondragon, and E. M.
Baggio-Saitovitch, Physica C **235-240**, 2563 (1994). * [20] M. El
Massalami, S. L. Bud’ko, B. Giordanengo, M. B. Fontes, J. C. Mondragon,
E. M. Baggio-Saitovitch, and A. Sulpice, Phys. Status Solidi B **189**,
489 (1995). * [21] P. G. Pagliuso, C. Rettori, S. B. Oseroff, P. C.
Canfield, E. M. Baggio-Saitovitch, and D. Sanchez, Phys. Rev. B **57**,
3668 (1998). * [22] M. D. Lan, T. J. Chang, and C. S. Liaw, J. Phys.
Chem. Solids **59**, 1285 (1998). * [23] M. El-Hagary, H. Michor, and G.
Hilscher, Phys. Rev. B **61**, 11695 (2000). * [24] H. Michor, M.
El-Hagary, L. Naber, E. Bauer, and G. Hilscher, Phys. Rev. B **61**,
R6487 (2000). * [25] Z. Drzazga, G. Fuchs, A. Handstein, K. Nenkov, and
K. H. Muller, Physica C **383**, 421 (2003). * [26] B. K. Cho, P. C.
Canfield, and D. C. Johnston, Phys. Rev. Lett. **77**, 163 (1996). *
[27] K. D. D. Rathnayaka, D. G. Naugle, A. C. Dumar, M. P. Anataska, and
P. C. Canfield, Int. J. Mod. Phys. B **17**, 3493 (2003). * [28] M. Xu,
P. C. Canfield, J. E. Ostenson, D. K. Finnemore, B. K. Cho, Z. R. Wang,
and D. C. Johnston, Physica C **227**, 321 (1994). * [29] P. C. Canfield
and I. R. Fisher, J. Cryst. Growth **225**, 155 (2001). * [30] D.
Markowitz and L. P. Kadanoff, Phys. Rev. **131**, 563 (1963). * [31] P.
Hohenberg, Zh. Eksp. Teor. Fiz. **45**, 1208 (1963) [Sov. Phys. JETP
**18**, 834 (1964)]. * [32] L. A. Openov, Pis’ma Zh. Eksp. Teor. Fiz.
**66**, 627 (1997) [JETP Lett. **66**, 661 (1997)]. * [33] V. G. Kogan,
Phys. Rev. B **81**, 184528 (2010). * [34] K. O. Cheon, I. R. Fisher, V.
G. Kogan, P. C. Canfield, P. Miranovic, and P. L. Gammel, Phys. Rev. B
**58**, 6463 (1998). * [35] H. Schmidt, M. Mueller, and H. F. Braun,
Physica C **235-240**, 779 (1994). * [36] S. L. Bud’ko, M. Elmassalami,
M. B. Fontes, J. Mondragon, W. Vanoni, B. Giordanengo, and E. M.
Baggio-Saitovitch, Physica C **243**, 183 (1995). * [37] L. F.
Mattheiss, Phys. Rev. B **49**, 13279 (1994). * [38] J. Bardeen, L. N.
Cooper, and J. R. Schrieffer, Phys. Rev. **108**, 1175 (1957). * [39] J.
C. Swihart, Phys. Rev. **116**, 346 (1959). * [40] S. Skalski, O.
Betbeder-Matibet, and P. R. Weiss, Phys. Rev. **136**, A1500 (1964). *
[41] E. Muller-Hartmann and J. Zittartz, Solid State Commun. **11**, 401
(1972). * [42] M. Brian Maple, Appl. Phys. **9**, 179 (1976). * [43] H.
Shiba, Prog. Theor. Phys. **50**, 50 (1973). * [44] L. A. Openov, Phys.
Rev. B **69**, 224516 (2004). * [45] J. A. Mydosh, _Spin Glasses: An
Experimental Introduction_ (Taylor & Francis, London, 1993). * [46] G.
R. Stewart, Rev. Mod. Phys. **73**, 797 (2001); **78**, 743 (2006). *
[47] B. K. Cho, P. C. Canfield, L. L. Miller, D. C. Johnston, W. P.
Beyermann, and A. Yatskar, Phys. Rev. B **52**, 3684 (1995). * [48] K.
Maki, Physics **1**, 127 (1964). * [49] D. Saint-James, G. Sarma, and E.
J. Thomas, _Type II Superconductivity_ (Pergamon Press, Oxford, 1969). *
[50] A. I. Buzdin and L. N. Bulaevskii, Usp. Fiz. Nauk **149**, 45
(1986) [Sov. Phys. Usp. **29**, 412 (1986)]. * [51] C. Petrovic, S. L.
Bud’ko, V. G. Kogan, and P. C. Canfield, Phys. Rev. B **66**, 054534
(2002). * [52] R. H. T. Wilke, S. L. Bud’ko, P. C. Canfield, J. Farmer,
and S. T. Hannahs, Phys. Rev. B **73**, 134512 (2006). * [53] R. H. T.
Wilke, S. L. Bud’ko, P. C. Canfield, D. K. Finnemore, R. J. Suplinskas,
and S. T. Hannahs, Phys. Rev. Lett. **92**, 217003 (2004). * [54] V. G.
Kogan, Phys. Rev. B **80**, 214532 (2009). * [55] P. M. Chaikin and T.
W. Mihalishin, Phys. Rev. B **6**, 839 (1972). * [56] V. G. Kogan, M.
Bullock, B. Harmon, P. Miranovic, Lj. Dobrosavljevic-Grujic, P. L.
Gammel, and D. J. Bishop, Phys. Rev. B **55**, R8693 (1997). * [57] S.
V. Shulga, S.-L. Drechsler, G. Fuchs, K.-H. Muller, K. Winzer, M.
Heinecke, and K. Krug, Phys. Rev. Lett. **80**, 1730 (1998).
