# Simultaneous suppression of ferromagnetism and superconductivity in
UCoGe by Si substitution

D. E. de Nijs, N. T. Huy, and A. de Visser

Van der Waals-Zeeman Institute, University of Amsterdam,
Valckenierstraat 65, 1018 XE Amsterdam, The Netherlands

Received 11 February 2008; revised manuscript received 13 March 2008;
published 29 April 2008

###### Abstract

We investigate the effect of substituting Si for Ge in the ferromagnetic
superconductor UCoGe. dc-magnetization, ac-susceptibility, and
electrical resistivity measurements on polycrystalline UCoGe1-Si_(x)
samples show that ferromagnetic order and superconductivity are
progressively depressed with increasing Si content and simultaneously
vanish at a critical concentration x_(r) = 0.12. The non-Fermi-liquid
temperature variation in the electrical resistivity near x_(r) and the
smooth depression of the ordered moment point to a continuous
ferromagnetic quantum phase transition. Superconductivity is confined to
the ferromagnetic phase, which provides further evidence for
magnetically mediated superconductivity.

pacs: DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.77.140506 + Footnote †: preprint: Roidl
communications

+ Footnote †: preprint: Roidl communications ing a mutual inductance
coil and a phase-sensitive bridge in a ³He system with base temperature
of 0.23 K or in a dilution refrigerator with base temperature of 0.02 K.
Electrical resistivity data ρ(T) were taken by using a low-frequency ac
bridge in a four-point configuration in the same temperature range.

The dc-magnetic susceptibility χ_(dc)(T) of the UCoGe_(1 − x)Si_(x)
alloys was measured in an applied field of 1 T in the temperature range
of 2 -300 K. The effect of doping small amounts of Si on χ_(dc)(T) is
weak. For all x ≤ 0.20, the data for T = 50 -300 K are described by a
modified Curie-Weiss law, with a temperature independent susceptibility
χ₀ ≈ 10⁻⁸ m³/mol and an effective moment p_(eff) ≃ 1.6 ± 0.1μ_(B)/f.u.
On the contrary, the effect of doping on the FM transition is large.
Measurements of the dc magnetization in a small field (B=0.01 T) show
that upon Si doping, the FM transition is rapidly suppressed to below
the low temperature limit of our dc magnetometer (2 K). For x = 0.00 and
0.02, we find T_(C) = 3.0 and 2.5 K, respectively. In Fig. 1, we show
the field dependence of the magnetization M(H) measured at T = 2 K. The
gradual increase in M(H) observed for B ≈ 1 T is related to the
itinerant nature of the magnetic state. The spontaneous magnetization
M_(s)(H=0) rapidly drops with increasing Si content. For the ordered
compounds, an estimate of M_(s)(0) can be made by fitting the data to
the empirical expression

M(H) = M_(s)(0) + ΔM(1 − e^(−μ₀/H)β₀),
(1)

where the parameter B₀ probes the magnetic interaction strength of the
fluctuating moments. In the high-field limit M(H= ∝ M_(s)(H=0) + ΔM, Eq.
(1) describes the experimental data well for B ≈ 1 T (solid lines in
Fig. 1). The intercepts of the fits with the vertical axis yield the fit
parameters M_(s)(H=0) in the limit T → 0. The deviations for B < 1 T are
due to the finite temperature at which the data are taken (the ordered
moment is not fully developed yet). For x= 0.00, M_(s)(0) ≈ 0.029μ_(B)
(T → 0), in agreement with previous results,[1] while for x= 0.02,
M_(s)(0) ≈ 0.022μ_(B). For the samples with x= 0.05, 0.08, and 0.10, the
data have been taken at T > T_(C). Nevertheless, a rough estimate of
M_(s)(0) can be obtained, as the magnetic transition shows a large
temperature broadening in applied fields B > 1 T. The resulting values
of M_(s)(0) are traced in the right panel of Fig. 1. We conclude that
M_(s)(0) smoothly goes to zero in the concentration range 0.10 < x<0.14.

The suppression of T_(C) was studied in more detail by the
ac-susceptibility technique. The data, taken down to 0.23 K
(0.00 ≈ x ≈ 0.10) and down to 0.02 K (0.14 ≈ x ≈ 0.20), are shown in
Fig. 2. The maximum in χ_(ac) locates the Curie temperature, which
equals 2.8 and 2.3 K, for x = 0.00 and 0.02, respectively. These values
compare well with those extracted from the dc magnetization. With
increasing Si content, the transition becomes weaker and broadens (see
inset of Fig. 2) and for x ≈ 0.14, a maximum in χ_(ac) can no longer be
identified. This confirms that magnetism vanishes in the concentration
range 0.10 < x<0.14. The large diamagnetic signal measured for
x ≈0.00,[1] 0.04, and 0.06 down to 0.23 K signals bulk SC is
progressively depressed and is no longer observed for x= 0.14 (at least
down to 0.02 K).

The electrical resistivity was measured in the temperature interval of
0.23 -10 K for x ≈ 0.08 and in the range of 0.02 -10 K for
0.10 ≈ x ≈ 0.20. For x= 0.00, the residual resistivity ρ₀=26μΩ cm. Upon
alloying, ρ₀ linearly increases at least up to x= 0.08 at the fast rate
of 12 μΩ cm/at.

The FM transition appears as a broad hump in ρ(T) for pure UCoGe.[1]
Upon alloying, the hump shifts to lower temperatures at the same rate as
the maximum in χ_(ac). In Fig. 3,

Figure 1: (Color online) Left panel: magnetization as a function of
field for UCoGe_(1 − x)Si_(x) alloys at T= 2 K. Si concentrations are
(from top to bottom) x= 0.02, 0.05, 0.08, 0.10, 0.14, and 1.0. The solid
lines represent fits to Eq. (1) for x ≤ 0.10. Right panel: spontaneous
magnetization M_(s)(0) as a function of Si content.

Figure 2: (Color online) Temperature variation of the ac susceptibility
(SI units) of UCoGe_(1 − x)Si_(x) alloys for x= 0.00, 0.04, 0.06, and
0.14. The inset shows χ_(ac) around the ferromagnetic transition for
0.00 ≈ x ≈ 0.20. The data for x= 0.20 fall on the horizontal axis.

we show the low-temperature part of the resistivity data in a plot of ρ
versus T^(n). Here, n is determined by fitting ρ ∼ T^(n) for
T_(x) < T < T_(C). For each x, the best value of n was obtained by
fitting over a larger and larger temperature range, while keeping n
constant and the error small. In the magnetic phase (x≤ 0.10), the
exponent shows a quasilinear decrease from n=2 for x=0.00 to the
non-Fermi-liquid value n≈ 1 for x =0.10 (see Fig. 3). Close to the
critical point, the temperature range for the fit becomes very small and
the values of n should be interpreted with care. Nevertheless, the
decreasing trend is evident. For x≅ 0.14, the Fermi liquid value n=2 is
recovered. The SC transition is depressed with increasing Si content and
no SC has been observed down to 0.02 K for x=0.14.

Having determined the evolution of the FM and SC phases in the
UCoGe_(1 − x)Si_(x) alloys by magnetic and transport measurements, we
construct the phase diagram shown in Fig. 4. T_(C) is quasilinearly
depressed, at least until x=0.08, at a rate dT_(C)/dx=−0.25 K/at.

In order to compare the effect of chemical and hydrostatic pressure, we
calculate from the difference in unit cell volume of UCoGe and UCoSi
that 1 at.

The suppression of magnetic order in the UCoGe_(1 − x)Si_(x) alloys can
be understood in terms of a simple Doniach picture: [18] by doping the
smaller Si atoms, the 5_f_-3d hybridization strength increases, which
leads to a loss of magnetism. The rapid suppression of FM order provides
further evidence that UCoGe is close to a FM QCP. This is corroborated
by the steady decrease in the non-Fermi-liquid exponent n of the
resistivity measured in the FM phase (see Fig. 3). The itinerant nature
of the FM state suggests that the critical point is of the
Moriya-Hertz-Millis [12, 19, 20] type. The extracted exponent n≈ 1 near
x_(cr)^(FM) is much smaller than the value n=5/3 predicted for a clean
FM QCP. A similar observation was made for the doping-induced FM QCP in
URh_(1 − x)Ru_(x)Ge alloys: [21] at x_(cr)=0.38, n≈ 1.2. Clearly,
disorder reduces [22]n. The smooth depression of M_(x)(0) indicates that
the ferromagnetic-to-paramagnetic transition at T=0 K is a continuous
phase transition. Additional experiments, e.g., specific heat, are
required to set the evidence for a FM QCP at x_(cr)≃ 0.12 on rim
footing.

The magnetic and SC phase diagram (Fig. 4) presents compelling evidence
that superconductivity is confined to the FM phase. Moreover, by
smoothly extrapolating T_(C)(x) and T_(C)(x), we arrive at a most
important conclusion, namely, x_(cr)^(FM)=x_(cr)^(SC)≈ 0.12. This shows
that FM order and SC are closely tied together. The simultaneous
suppression of FM order and SC yields strong support for triplet SC
mediated by FM spin fluctuations. [3, 4, 13, 14] Evidence for triplet SC
is furnished by the absence of Pauli limiting in the upper critical
field B_(c2). [10] Moreover, the observed anisotropy in B_(c2) provides
evidence for an axial SC gap with nodes along the direction of the
ordered moment, as calculated [23] for the

Figure 3: Left panel: the electrical resistivity ρ (arbitrary units)
plotted versus T^(i) of UCoGe_(1 − x)Si_(x) alloys for x as indicated.
The curves are shifted along the vertical axis for clarity. The straight
solid lines represent fits ρ∼T^(n) (see text). Right panel: exponent n
versus Si concentration. The dashed line serves as a guide for the eyes.
The vertical dotted line locates x_(cr). The horizontal dotted line
indicates n=2.

phase of an orthorhombic FMSC. On the other hand, it is recognized [3,
24] that triplet SC is extremely sensitive to scattering at nonmagnetic
impurities and defects. Therefore, it is surprising that SC survives
until doping concentrations of  12 at.

In summary, magnetic and transport measurements on a series of
polycrystalline UCoGe_(1 − x)Si_(x) samples show that ferromagnetic
order and superconductivity are both depressed and vanish at the same
critical concentration x_(cr) ≈ 0.12. The non-Fermi-liquid exponent in
the resistivity near x_(cr) and the smooth depression of the ordered
moment point to a continuous FM quantum phase transition.
Superconductivity is confined to the ferromagnetic phase, which provides
further evidence for magnetically mediated superconductivity. These
results offer a unique route to investigate the emergence of
superconductivity near a FM QCP at ambient pressure.

This work was part of the research program of FOM (Dutch Foundation for
Fundamental Research of Matter) and COST Action P16 ECOM.

## References

* [*] devisser@science.uva.nl * [1] N. T. Huy, A. Gasparini, D. E. de
Nijs, Y. Huang, J. C. P. Klaasse, T. Gotremmulder, A. de Visser, A.
Hamann, T. Gorlach, and H. v. Lohneysen, Phys. Rev. Lett. **99**, 067006
(2007). * [2] N. F. Berk and J. R. Schrieffer, Phys. Rev. Lett. **17**,
433 (1966). * [3] D. Fay and J. Appel, Phys. Rev. B **22**, 3173
(1980). * [4] G. G. Lonzarich, in _Electron: A Centenary Volume_, edited
by M. Springford (Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, 1997), Chap.
6. * [5] S. S. Saxena, K. Ahilan, P. Agarwal, F. M. Grosche, R. K.
Haselwimmer, M. Steiner, E. Pugh, I. R. Walker, S. R. Julian, P.
Monthoux, G. G. Lonzarich, A. D. Huxley, I. Sheikin, D. Braithwaite, and
J. Flouquet, Nature (London) **406**, 587 (2000). * [6] T. Akazawa, H.
Hidaka, T. Fujiwara, T. C. Kobayashi, E. Yamamoto, Y. Haga, R. Settai,
and Y. Onuki, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter **16**, L29 (2004). * [7] D.
Aoki, A. D. Huxley, E. Ressouche, D. Braithwaite, J. Flouquet, J. P.
Brison, E. Lhotel, and C. Paulsen, Nature (London) **413**, 613
(2001). * [8] B. Lloret, Ph.D. thesis, University of Bordeaux I, 1988. *
[9] F. Canepa, P. Manfrinetti, M. Pani, and A. Palenzona, J. Alloys
Compd. **234**, 225 (1996). * [10] N. T. Huy, D. E. de Nijs, Y. K.
Huang, and A. de Visser, Phys. Rev. Lett. **100**, 077002 (2008). * [11]
N. T. Huy, Ph.D. thesis, University of Amsterdam, 2008. * [12] T.
Moriya, _Spin Fluctuations in Itinerant Electron Magnetism_ (Springer,
Berlin, 1985). * [13] T. R. Kirkpatrick, D. Belitz, T. Vojta, and R.
Narayanan, Phys. Rev. Lett. **87**, 127003 (2001). * [14] P. Monthoux,
D. Pines, and G. G. Lonzarich, Nature (London) **450**, 1177 (2007). *
[15] R. Troc and V. H. Tran, J. Magn. Magn. Mater. **73**, 389 (1988). *
[16] V. Sechovsky and L. Havela, _Handbook of Magnetic Materials_,
edited by K. H. J. Buschow (North-Holland, Amsterdam, 1998), Vol. 11,
pp. 1-289. * [17] This value corrects the estimate dT_(s)/dp = 0.048
K/kbar given in Ref. 1. * [18] S. Doniach, Physica B & C **91**, 231
(1977). * [19] J. Hertz, Phys. Rev. B **14**, 1165 (1976). * [20] A. J.
Millis, Phys. Rev. B **48**, 7183 (1993). * [21] N. T. Huy, A.
Gasparini, J. C. P. Klaasse, A. de Visser, S. Sakarya, and N. H. van
Dijk, Phys. Rev. B **75**, 212405 (2007). * [22] See, e.g., C.
Pfleiderer, S. R. Julian, and G. G. Lonzarich, Nature (London) **414**,
427 (2001). * [23] V. P. Mineev and T. Champel, Phys. Rev. B **69**,
144521 (2004). * [24] I. F. Foulkes and B. L. Gyorffy, Phys. Rev. B
**15**, 1395 (1977). * [25] P. J. Hirschfeld, P. Wolfle, and D. Einzel,
Phys. Rev. B **37**, 83 (1988). * [26] A. J. Millis, S. Sachdev, and C.
M. Varma, Phys. Rev. B **37**, 4975 (1988). * [27] A. P. Mackenzie, R.
K. W. Haselwimmer, A. W. Tyler, G. G. Lonzarich, Y. Mori, S. Nishizaki,
and Y. Maeno, Phys. Rev. Lett. **80**, 161 (1998).
