# Superconductivity in the noncentrosymmetric compound Re6Hf

Bin Chen,1 Yang Guo,1 Hangdong Wang,1 Qiping Su,1 Qianhui Mao,2 Jianhua
Du,2 Yuxing Zhou,2 Jinhu Yang,1,*

jjjhphy@hznu.edu.cn mhfang@zju.edu.cn

Minghu Fang

mhfang@zju.edu.cn 1Hangzhou Key Laboratory of Quantum Matter, Department
of Physics, Hangzhou Normal University, Hangzhou 310036, China
Department of Physics, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310027, China
Collaborative Innovation Center of Advanced Microstructures, Nanjing
210093, China

Footnote 1: footnotemark:

Received 18 April 2016; published 22 July 2016

###### Abstract

Re6Hf, which crystallizes in _a_-Mn structure(space group I43_m_)
without a spatial inversion center, is a superconductor with a
superconducting transition temperature T_(c) 6.2 K. The measurements of
magnetic susceptibility (_kh_), resistivity (_r_), and specific heat
capacity (_C_) were carried out. Bulk superconductivity is revealed by
the jump at T_(c) of the specific heat with ΔC/γ_(s)T_(c) ≈ 1.63,
suggesting moderate electron-electron coupling strength in this system.
The upper critical field m0_H__(c2)^(NHH)(0) was estimated to be of 89
kOe, and m0_H__(c2)^(Cd)(0) = 107 kOe, which is close to the Pauli
limiting field. The Ginzburg Landau parameter k_(L) = 50.2, indicates
that Re6Hf is a type-II superconductor. The temperature dependence of
the electronic specific heat C_(i)(_T_) in the superconducting state can
be explained by BCS theory. Furthermore, the magnetic-field dependence
of _g_(_H_) is found to be linear with respect to H. These results imply
a dominant _s_-wave superconductivity in Re6Hf.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.94.024518

## I Introduction

The superconductivity discovered in a heavy fermion compound CePt3Si
without an inversion symmetry, has stimulated considerable interest in
theoretical and experimental research in recent years [1]. Theoretically
the parity conservation may be broken with increasing the strength of
asymmetric spin-orbit coupling (ASOC) in materials with
noncentrosymmetric structure. Therefore the superconducting state may
exhibit an admixture of spin-singlet and spin-triplet components. To
date, a number of noncentrosymmetric superconducting compounds have been
investigated. For example, CePt3Si [1], CeRhSi3 [2], CeIrSi3 [3],
CeCoGe3 [4], and CeIrGe3 [5] are antiferromagnets at ambient pressure
while exhibiting superconductivity under high pressure. However, the
complexity of the _f_-electron magnetism may mask the nature of
noncentrosymmetric superconductivity. It is, therefore, important to
search for _f_-electron free compounds lacking inversion symmetry in
order to study noncentrosymmetric superconductivity. For some
_d_-electron systems, a dominant characteristic of conventional
Bardeen-Cooper-Schrieffer (BCS) superconductivity has been reported in
Ru7B3 [6], Mg12-4Ir19B16 [7], Li2Pd3B [8], and Re3W [9]. The absence of
a Hebel-Slichter peak in the spin-lattice relaxation rate and a power
law temperature dependence of the specific heat in Mo3Al2C indicate
unconventional superconductivity in this system [10]. Muon spin
relaxation (_u_SR) experiments suggests that the time-reversal symmetry
is broken in the superconducting state in LaNiC2 and four triplet states
are possible in this system [11]. Furthermore, superconductivity in some
rhenium alloys Re24T5 (_T_ = Ti and Nb) were reported previously, which
crystallize in the noncentrosymmetric structure of a cubic _a_-Mn type
with the space group I43m (No. 217). For example, Re24Ti5 [12] is a
superconductor with a T_(c) of 5.8 K Nb0.18Re0.82 is a moderately
coupled superconductor and the upper critical field is comparable with
the calculated Pauli limit. Point contact spectroscopy results provide
evidence of two-gap superconductivity [13]. 93Nb NMR results show a
coherence peak below T_(c), indicating a conventional superconductivity
in Re24NbS [14, 15].

Recently, transverse-field _u_SR experiments show _s_-wave character for
the superconducting gap in Re6Zr [16] which adopts the same structure as
Re24Ti5, however, zero- and longitudinal-field _u_SR data reveal
spontaneous static magnetic fields below T_(c) which means a broken
time-reversal symmetry in the superconducting state and an
unconventional pairing mechanism. The isostructural compound
Re0.86Hf0.14 (this can also be written as Re6Hf0.98) is a superconductor
with a T_(c) of 5.86 K as reported by Matthias _et al_. in 1963 [17].
Since Hf atoms are heavier than Ti, Zr, or Nb atoms, the ASOC strength
is expected to be enhanced which can lead to the admixture of
spin-singlet and spin-triplet order as discovered in Li2(Pt, Pd)3B [8,
18, 19].

Here we report on the synthesis and characterization of polycrystalline
Re6Hf which showed a bulk superconducting transition at T_(c) 6.2 K. We
measured the powder x-ray diffraction to determine its crystal
structure. The superconducting properties for Re6Hf were studied by the
measurements of magnetic susceptibility, electrical resistivity, and
specific heat capacity. The superconducting parameters of Re6Hf, such as
the thermodynamic critical field _H__(c0) and the lower and upper
critical field _H__(c1) and _H__(c2), the coherence length _x_(0), the
electronic specific heat coefficient _g__n, and the specific heat jump
ΔC/γ_(s)T_(c) were estimated. The electronic heat capacity decreases
exponentially with decreasing temperature and the magnetic dependence of
_g_(_H_) shows linear behavior. Our results suggest that the
superconductivity in Re6Hf is of _s_-wave gap symmetry.

## II Experimental details

A polycrystalline sample was prepared by melting stoichiometric amounts
of high-purity Re (99.9

## III Results and Discussion

Figure 1 shows the x-ray diffraction pattern measured at room
temperature. The diffractometer pattern shows no impurity phase. The
lattice constant of the prepared sample was determined to be
9.678 ± 0.002 A by using the Rietveld method with a general structure
analysis system [20]. The refinements gave Hf(1) site (2a in Wyckoff
notation) (0,0,0), Hf(2) site (8c) (0.3106,0.3106,0.3106), Re(1) site
(24g) (0.3623,0.3623,0.0383), and Re(2) site (24g)
(0.6954,0.6954,0.2903). Hf(1) site has an inversion center, while the
Hf(2), Re(1), and Re(2) sites have no inversion center in the structure.

Figure 2 displays the temperature dependence of magnetic
susceptibility(_kh_) measured at an applied field of 10 Oe.
Superconductivity defined as the onset of the diamagnetic signal in the
magnetization as indicated by an arrow as shown in Fig. 2, occurs at
T_(c) = 6.2 ± 0.1 K. The value of 4πχ (2 K) exceeds −1 due to the
demagnetization effect. The susceptibility measured at an applied
magnetic field of 1 kOe, remains almost constant at 8.8 × 10⁻⁴ cm³/mol
from 7 to 300 K. Generally, the susceptibility
$\chi=\chi_{\rm core}+\chi_{\rm rev}+\chi_{L}+\chi_{P}$, where
$\chi_{\rm core}$ is the diamagnetic core susceptibility, χ_(L) the
Lamadu diamagnetic susceptibility of the conduction carriers, and the
last term, χ_(P), the Pauli spin susceptibility of the conduction
carriers. We estimated $\chi_{\rm core}=-4.32\times 10^{-4}$ cm³/mol
using Hartree-Fock approximations [21]. The χ_(P) is evaluated from the
relation χ_(P) = (g²/4)μ_(B)², where g is the spectroscopic splitting
factor of the conduction carriers, μ_(B) the Bohr magneton, and D(E_(F))
the band-structure density of states at the Fermi energy E_(F). Using
g = 2 and D(E_(F)) = 6.4 states/eV f.u. (estimated from specific heat as
explained below), χ_(P) = 2.08 × 10  ⁻ ⁴ cm³/mol. Assuming the
band-structure effective mass m^(*) = m_(e), where m_(e) is the mass of
free electron, we obtained χ_(L) = −6.9 × 10⁻⁵ cm³/mol from the formula
χ_(L) = −1/3(m^(*)/m_(e))χ_(P). Therefore, $\chi_{\rm rev}$ is derived
as 11.4 × 10⁻⁴ cm³/mol.

The temperature dependence of the electrical resistivity of Re₆Hf
between 2 and 300 K is shown in Fig. 3(a). The resistivity decreases
with decreasing temperature, indicating a metallic behavior. A
superconducting transition with an onset temperature
$T_{c}^{\rm onset}=6.4$ K (the temperature at which the resistivity has
decreased by 10

Figure 1: Rietveld refinement for the Re₆Hf sample. The red circles
correspond to the experimental data. The blue solid line shows the
calculated pattern. The blue vertical bars give the Bragg positions for
the phase Re₆Hf of space group Ā3m. The black line at the bottom of the
plot displays the difference between the experimental and calculated
patterns.

Figure 2: Zero-field-cooled (ZFC) and field-cooled (FC) magnetic
susceptibility of Re₆Hf at an applied magnetic field of 10 Oe.

Now we present the analysis of the upper critical field of H_(c2),
obtained from a 90

$$\mu_{0}H_{c2}^{WHH}(0)=0.693\left(\frac{d\mu_{0}H_{c2}}{dT}\right)_{T_{c}}T_{c}.$$
(1)

We also evaluated the upper critical field from Ginzburg-Landau formula
μ₀H_(c2)(T) = μ₀H_(c2)(0)(1 − t²)/(1 + t²), where t is the normalized
temperature T/T_(c). The fitting curve, shown as a blue dashed line in
Fig. 3(b), agrees with the data quite well. The upper critical field
μ₀H_(c2)^(GL)(0) = (107 ± 1) kOe, which is close to the Pauli limiting
field (113 ± 4) kOe, derived from the relation
μ₀H_(P) = 1.83 × 10⁴T_(c). In fact, Eq. (1) corresponds to α = 0 and
λ_(so) = 0, where α is the Maki parameter and λ_(so) the spin-orbit pair
breaking parameter. Experimentally, the Maki parameter can be derived
from the relation α = 0.53(−dH_(c2)/dT)_(T_(c))[23]. Therefore α is
estimated as 1.11 ± 0.05, which is also consistent with the result from
the relation $\alpha=\sqrt{2}H_{c2}^{WHH}/H_{P}$. The Maki parameter can
be expressed as $\alpha=\frac{\chi_{2}}{2\pi\pi^{2}k_{B}}$, where e is
the electron charge and m the electron mass [22]. Taking the α estimated
above and the Sommerfeld value γ_(n) (see below) yields the intrinsic
intragranular resistivity ρ ≈ 80 ± 4 μΩ cm.

In order to obtain the superconducting parameters, we estimated the
lower critical field μ₀H_(c1) from M(H) in low magnetic fields. The
sample used for the measurement was about 2.8 × 0.8 × 0.8 mm³. The
demagnetization factor for the sample is derived from
$N_{m}=\frac{2}{2}\arcsin\frac{1}{1+2\tau}\ \approx\ 0.14$, where
r = c/a (c,a is the length and the width of the sample, respectively).
The actual magnetic field in the sample was corrected by taking
demagnetization effect into account. The lower critical field H_(c1)
defined as the magnetization deviation from its linear relation with
magnetic field in the M-H plot is shown in Fig. 4. We fit the data
according to the formula H_(c1) = H_(c1)(0)(1 − (T/T_(c))²), which
yields μ₀H_(c1)(0) = 74 ± 2 Oe. With these results for H_(c1)(0) and
H_(c2)(0), we can estimate several superconducting parameters for
Re${}_{\rm{eff}}$. From ξ_(GL)² = Φ₀/2π μ₀H_(c2), where Φ₀ is the
quantum flux (h/2), we find a Ginzburg-Landau coherence length
ξ_(GL)(0) = 61.2 ± 0.3 A. A penetration depth,
λ_(GL)(0) = (3.06 ± 0.04)× 10³ A is obtained from
μ₀H_(c1) = Φ₀/4π λ_(GL)²(0)[ln λ_(GL)(0)/ξ_(GL)(0)]. The Ginzburg-Landau
parameter κ(0) = λ_(GL)(0)/ξ_(GL)(0) = 50.2  ± 0.9. Using these
parameters and the relation H_(c1)H_(c2) = H_(c2)²ln κ, we find that the
thermodynamic critical field μ₀H_(c)(0) = (1.26  ± 0.03) kOe.

The plot of C_(p)/T versus T² at H = 0 is shown in Fig. 5. The specific
heat capacity data in the normal state allows the determination of the
Sommerfeld constant (γ) and

Figure 4: Magnetization with an applied magnetic field at different
temperatures. Inset: lower critical field H_(c1) determined at the
magnetic field where the deviation of the magnetization from its linear
relation with the applied field occurs.

Figure 3: (a) Temperature dependence of the electrical resistivity of
Re${}_{\rm{eff}}$hf between 2 and 300 K, and (b) upper critical field of
Re${}_{\rm{eff}}$hf as a function of temperature. The H_(c2) data is
derived from a 90

Debye constant (β) from C_(p)(T) = γ T + βT³ + δT⁵. The dotted line
represents the best fit to the data which yields γ = 25.3 ± 0.6 mJ/mol
K², β = 0.43 ± 0.02 mJ/mol K⁴, and δ = 0.9 ± 0.1μJ/mol K⁶. The Debye
temperature Θ_(D), evaluated from the relation
Θ_(D) = (12π⁴ RN/5β)^(1/3), where R = 8.31 J/mol K and N is the number
of atoms in unit cell of Re₆Hf, is 316 ± 5 K. With Θ_(D) and T_(c), we
calculated the electron-phonon constant λ_(ep) = 0.67 ± 0.01 by means of
the McMillan equation [24]

$$\lambda_{ep}=\frac{1.04+\mu^{*}\text{ln}\big{(}\frac{\theta_{D}}{1.45T_{c}} \big{)}}{(1-0.62\mu^{*})\text{ln}\big{(}\frac{\theta_{D}}{1.45T_{c}}\big{)}-1 .04},$$
(2)

where μ^(*) is the Coulomb pseudopotential of about 0.13 used in
intermetallic superconductors. This value is comparable to those in
noncentrosymmetric superconductors, such as 0.68 for Mg₁₀Ir₁₉B₁₆[7] and
0.5 for LaRhSi₃[25], indicating that the electron-phonon coupling is
moderately strong in Re₆Hf. Generally, γ_(n) relates the electronic
density of states around the Fermi level. The Fermi level density of
states D(E_(F)) estimated using the values of γ and λ_(ep) according to
the relation
$\gamma_{n}=\frac{\pi^{3}k_{F}^{2}}{2}D(E_{F})[1+\lambda_{ep}]$.
Therefore D(E_(F)) is estimated as 6.4 ± 0.2 states/eV f.u. The
specific-heat jump (ΔC/T_(c)) for Re₆Hf is about 41.3 ± 0.7 mJ/mol K²,
which gives a value of ΔC/γ_(n)T_(c) = 1.63 ± 0.05, slightly larger than
1.43 predicted by BCS theory. The condensation energy, U(0), was
estimated from

$$\Delta U(0)=-\frac{\gamma_{n}T_{c}^{2}}{2}+\int_{0}^{T_{c}}C_{el}(T)dT,$$
(3)

subjected to the entropy-conserving fit for the specific heat. Using
γ_(n) = 25.3 mJ/mol K² and T_(c) = 6.2 K, we obtained ΔU(0) = 245 ± 10
mJ/mol. The thermodynamic critical is estimated to be 936 ± 20 Oe using
the relationship ΔU(0) = 1/2μ₀H_(c)²(0), which is consistent with the
value determined by the critical fields.

The electronic specific heat at very low temperatures gives key
information about the superconducting gap structure. Therefore we
obtained C_(el) by subtracting the lattice contribution from the total
heat capacity. The reduced temperature dependence of the electronic
specific heat C_(el)/γ_(n)T below T_(c) is shown in Fig. 6. Within the
framework of BCS theory, the superconducting contribution to the entropy
(S) is calculated as

$$S=-\frac{6\gamma_{n}\Delta_{0}}{\pi^{2}k_{B}}\int_{0}^{\infty}[f\,\ln f+(1-f) \text{ln}(1-f)]dy,$$
(4)

where $f=\frac{1}{1+e^{i\pi}}$ and $\beta=\frac{1}{k_{B}T}$. The energy
of the quasiparticles is $E=\Delta_{0}\sqrt{y^{2}+\Delta(T)^{2}}$, where
Δ₀ is the superconducting gap and y = ϵ/Δ₀ is the electron energy at the
normal state. Δ(T) is the temperature dependence of the BCS
superconducting gap as calculated by Muhlschlegel [26]. The electronic
specific heat is thereafter calculated by C_(el) = TdS/dT. We set γ_(n)
and Δ₀ as adjustable parameters. The fit agrees with the data in the
whole temperature range below T_(c) and the results yield
γ_(n) = 24.1  ± 0.3 mJ/mol K and Δ₀ = 1.02 ± 0.03 meV. The ratio
Δ₀/k_(B)T_(c) = 1.91 ± 0.03 is larger than the value 1.76 as predicted
for a weak coupling limit, suggesting that the electron-electron is
moderately coupled in Re₆Hf. In order to check other gap symmetry in
Re₆Hf, we fit the data according to the formulas C_(el)/γ_(n)T ∝ T, T²
as expected for line nodes and point nodes, respectively. The fit
coincides with the data in the temperature of 0.25 ≤ T/T_(c) ≤ 1 for the
gap with line nodes, however, a strong deviation occurs below
T/T_(c) ≈ 0.25. The fit agrees with the data below T/T_(c) ≈ 0.38 for
the gap with point nodes and departs from the data in the range of
0.38 ≤ T/T_(c) ≤ 1. Overall, these two models cannot describe

Figure 5: Temperature dependence of the specific heat capacity of Re₆Hf
plotted as C_(p)/T vs T, which shows bulk superconductivity at
T_(c) ≈ 6.2 K. The dashed line is the best fit to the data by the Debye
model at low temperatures. The left inset shows the conservation of
entropy and the C_(p)/T vs T² under various magnetic fields is shown in
the right inset. An upturn appears in the curve under the magnetic field
larger than 70 kOe at lower temperatures, which is probably due to a
Schottky anomaly.

Figure 6: The reduced temperature dependence of the electronic specific
heat C_(el)/γ_(n)T of Re₆Hf in the superconducting state. The solid and
dashed lines are fits to the data as described in the text.

the temperature dependence of the electronic specific heat in the
superconducting state in Re₆Hf.

A clear upturn appears in the curve above 70 kOe at very low
temperatures as shown in the right inset of Fig. 5, which is probably
due to a nuclear Schottky anomaly. The Schottky anomaly was also
discovered by Yuan _et al._ in Nb_(0.18)Re_(0.82)[27]. We noticed that
the nuclear-quadrupole interaction in Henium metal can produce an upturn
in specific heat at low temperatures [28]. Therefore the Schottky
anomaly in Re₆Hf may come from a small amount of unreacted Re, which
cannot be detected by x-ray diffraction. In order to get more
information on the Cooper pairing in Re₆Hf, we remove the Schottky
anomaly by fitting the data in the temperature region between 0.5 and 2
K according to the equation
$C_{\text{Schottky}}\propto\frac{A}{T}\exp(-\varepsilon/KT)+B/T^{2}$[29].
Thus we obtained the Sommerfeld constant γ(H) under different magnetic
field as shown in Fig. 7. In theory, a nonlinear behavior γ(H) ∝ H^(1/2)
is predicted for a highly anisotropic gap or a gap with nodes, and γ(H)
is proportional to the number of field-induced vortices, i.e., γ(H) ∝ H
for a fully gapped superconductivity. It can be seen that γ(H) shows
strong deviation from H^(1/2) behavior and good linear dependence with
the applied magnetic field. That the field linear increases in γ(H)
provides further evidence of a dominant s-wave superconductivity in
Re₆Hf. However, the linear temperature dependence of the upper critical
field H_(c2)(T) and H_(c2)(0) close to the Pauli limiting field behavior
are unusual for a simple BCS-type superconductor. Other pairing
symmetries cannot be ruled out since the impurity and/or disorder in our
polycrystalline sample may mask the intrinsic behavior at low
temperatures in Re₆Hf.

## IV IV. Summary

Polycrystalline samples of Re₆Hf were prepared by arc melting. The
result of x-ray diffraction measurement confirms a pure phase with the
noncentrosymmetric α-Mn-type structure. We investigated the physical
properties of the noncentrosymmetric superconductor Re₆Hf by measuring
magnetic susceptibility, electrical resistivity, and specific heat
capacity. Our main results show that Re₆Hf displays a type-II
superconductivity at T_(c) = 6.2 K. The value of ΔC/γ_(n)T_(c) = 1.63
indicates the compound is in moderate coupling regime. The electronic
specific heat C_(es) shows an exponential behavior at low temperatures,
and γ(H) ∝ H, suggesting a dominant s-wave pairing in Re₆Hf, However
there is still the possibility of an admixture of spin-singlet and
spin-triplet pairing states since the disorder effect may mask the gap
anisotropy. Research on high quality of single crystals of Re₆Hf is
needed in the future to clarify the nature of the superconducting
pairing in this system.

###### Acknowledgements.

This research is supported by the National Basic Research Program of
China (973 Program) under Grants No. 2016YFA0300402, No. 2015CB921004,
and No. 2012CB821404, the Nature Science Foundation of China (Grants No.
11374261 and No. 11204059) and Zhejiang Provincial Natural Science
Foundation of China (Grant No. LY14AQ40007), and the Fundamental
Research Funds for the Central Universities of China.

## References

* [1] E. Bauer, G. Hilscher, H. Michor, Ch. Paul, E. W. Scheidt, A.
Gribanov, Yu. Seropegin, H. Noel, M. Sigrist, and P. Rogl, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **92**, 027003 (2004). * [2] N. Kimura, K. Ito, K. Saitoh, Y.
Umeda, H. Aoki, and T. Terashima, Phys. Rev. Lett. **95**, 247004
(2005). * [3] I. Sugitani, Y. Okuda, H. Shishido, T. Yamada, A.
Thamizhavel, E. Yamamoto, T. D. Matsuda, Y. Haga, T. Takeuchi, R.
Settai, and Y. Onuki, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **75**, 043703 (2006). * [4] R.
Settai, I. Sugitani, Y. Okuda, A. Thamizhavel, M. Nakashima, Y. Onuki,
and H. Harima, J. Magn. Magn. Mater. **310**, 844 (2007). * [5] F.
Honda, I. Bonalde, K. Shimizu, S. Yoshiuchi, Y. Hirose, T. Nakamura, R.
Settai, and Y. Onuki, Phys. Rev. B **81**, 140507 (2010). * [6] L. Fang,
H. Yang, X. Zhu, G. Mu, Z.-S. Wang, L. Shan, C. Ren, and H.-H. Wen,
Phys. Rev. B **79**, 144509 (2009). * [7] G. Mu, Y. Wang, L. Shan, and
H.-H. Wen, Phys. Rev. B **76**, 064527 (2007). * [8] K. Togano, P.
Badica, Y. Nakamori, S. Orimo, H. Takeya, and K. Hirata, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **93**, 247004 (2004). * [9] Y. L. Zuev, V. A. Kuznetsova, R.
Prozorov, M. D. Vannette, M. V. Lobanov, D. K. Christen, and J. R.
Thompson, Phys. Rev. B **76**, 132508 (2007). * [10] E. Bauer, G. Rogl,
X.-Q. Chen, R. T. Khan, H. Michor, G. Hilscher, E. Royanian, K. Kumagai,
D. Z. Li, Y. Y. Li, R. Podloucky, and P. Rogl, Phys. Rev. B **82**,
064511 (2010).

Figure 7: Sommerfeld parameter γ_(H) as a function of magnetic field.
The solid line indicates a linear dependence as predicted for an s-wave
gap structure, the dotted line represents the dependence expected for an
anisotropic gap or a gap with nodes. γ_(H) is estimated by extrapolating
the data to zero temperature in C_(p)/T vs T² plots.

* [11] A. D. Hillier, J. Quintanilla, and R. Cywinski, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**102**, 117007 (2009). * [12] C. S. Lue, H. F. Liu, C. N. Kuo, P. S.
Shin, J.-Y. Lin, Y. K. Kuo, M. W. Chu, T.-L. Hung, and Y. Y. Chen,
Supercond. Sci. Technol. **26**, 055011 (2013). * [13] C. Cirillo, R.
Fittipaldi, M. Smidman, G. Carapella, C. Attanasio, A. Vecchione, R. P.
Singh, M. R. Lees, G. Balakrishnan, and M. Cuoco, Phys. Rev. B **91**,
134508 (2015). * [14] A. B. Karki, Y. M. Xiong, N. Haldolaarachchige, S.
Stadler, I. Vekhter, P. W. Adams, W. A. Phelan, and J. Y. Chan, Phys.
Rev. B **83**, 144525 (2011). * [15] C. S. Lue, T. H. Su, H. F. Liu, and
B.-L. Young, Phys. Rev. B **84**, 052509 (2011). * [16] R. P. Singh, A.
D. Hillier, B. Mazidian, J. Quintanilla, J. F. Annett, D. McK. Paul, G.
Balakrishnan, and M. R. Lees, Phys. Rev. Lett. **112**, 107002 (2014). *
[17] B. T. Matthias, T. H. Gebave, and V. B. Compton, Rev. Mod. Phys.
**35**, 1 (1963). * [18] H. Q. Yuan, D. F. Agterberg, N. Hayashi, P.
Badica, D. Vandervelde, K. Togano, M. Sigrist, and M. B. Salamon, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **97**, 017006 (2006). * [19] P. Badica, T. Kondo, and K.
Togano, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **74**, 1014 (2005). * [20] A. C. Larson and
R. B. Von Dreele, General structure analysis system (GSAS), Los Alamos
National Laboratory Report No. LAUR 86-748, 2000. * [21] L. B.
Mendelsohn, F. Biggs, and J. B. Mann, Phys. Rev. A **2**, 1130 (1970). *
[22] N. R. Werthamer, E. Helfand, and P. C. Hohenberg, Phys. Rev.
**147**, 295 (1966). * [23] K. Maki, Phys. Rev. **148**, 362 (1966). *
[24] W. L. McMillan, Phys. Rev. **167**, 331 (1968). * [25] V. K. Anand,
A. D. Hillier, D. T. Adroja, A. M. Strydom, H. Michor, K. A. McEwen, and
B. D. Rainford, Phys. Rev. B **83**, 064522 (2011). * [26] B.
Muhlschlegel, Z. Phys. **155**, 313 (1959). * [27] J. Chen, L. Jiao, J.
L. Zhang, Y. Chen, L. Yang, M. Nicklas, F. Steglich, and H. Q. Yuan,
Phys. Rev. B **88**, 144510 (2013). * [28] P. E. Gregers-Hanse, M.
Krusius, and G. R. Pickett, Phys. Rev. Lett. **27**, 38 (1971). * [29]
H. M. Rosenberg, _Low Temperature Solid State Physics_ (Oxford
University Press, Oxford, 1963).
