Interplay of composition, structure, magnetism, and superconductivity in
SmFeAs_(1 − x)P_(x)O_(1 − y)

N. D. Zhigadlo

S. Katrych

M. Bendele

PACS number(s): 74.70.Xa, 74.62.Bf, 74.25.-q, 81.20.-n

PACS number(s): 74.70.Xa, 74.62.Bf, 74.25.-q, 81.20.-n

PACS number(s): 74.70.Xa, 74.62.Bf, 74.25.-q, 81.20.-n

###### Abstract

Polycrystalline samples and single crystals of
SmFeAs_(1 − x)P_(x)O_(1 − y) were synthesized and grown employing
different synthesis methods and annealing conditions. Depending on the
phosphorus and oxygen content, the samples are either magnetic or
superconducting. In the fully oxygenated compounds, the main impacts of
phosphorus substitution are to suppress the Neel temperature _T_N of the
spin density wave (SDW) state and to strongly reduce the local magnetic
field in the SDW state, as deduced from muon spin rotation measurements.
On the other hand, the superconducting state is observed in the
oxygen-deficient samples only after heat treatment under high pressure.
Oxygen deficiency as a result of synthesis at high pressure brings the
Sm-O layer closer to the superconducting As/P-Fe-As/P block and provides
additional electron transfer. Interestingly, the structural
modifications in response to this variation of the electron count are
significantly different when phosphorus is partly substituting arsenic.
Point contact spectra are well described with two superconducting gaps.
Magnetic and resistance measurements on single crystals indicate an
in-plane magnetic penetration depth of ∼200 nm and an anisotropy of the
upper critical field slope of ∼4-5.

pacs: 10.1103/PhysRevB.84.134526 + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL REVIEW
B **84**, 134526 (2011)

## I Introduction

A renewed interest in high-temperature superconductors (HTS) was
generated by the unexpected discoveries of Fe-based oxypnictide
superconducting LaFePO (_T_c 5 K) [1] and LaFeAs(O,F) (_T_c 26 K), [2]
followed by the subsequent development of homologous series of the
quaternary iron pnictides (1111-_Ln_Fe_nPO_, _Ln_: lanthanide, _Pn_:
pnictogen) with _T_c values up to ∼55 K. Several families of iron
pnictides and iron chalcogenides were subsequently discovered (see Refs.
[3] and [4] and references therein). The compounds belonging to the 1111
family of Fe-based HTS have a common layered structure composed of an
alternating stack of _Ln_O and Fe_Pn_ layers. In all series, the Fe_Pn_
layer is directly responsible for superconductivity, whereas the
perovskite-like _Ln_O layers play the role of a charge supplier.
Superconductivity occurs through chemical substitution at different
atomic sites of the crystal structure, or by applying an external
pressure when the antiferromagnetic state is partially or completely
suppressed. The resulting electronic phase diagrams depend on the
particular compound. [4] One of the distinctive features of the 1111
family of Fe-based HTS is the possibility to induce superconductivity by
applying "chemical pressure" through a partial substitution of the
isovalent smaller P ions for the bigger As. Several theoretical [5] and
experimental [6] studies have addressed this issue. The consensus is
that P substitution for As does not result in significant changes of the
electron density but shows a clear influence on the localization of
hybridized states, bandwidth, and the topology of the Fermi surface.
Interestingly, having the same number of electrons and holes for any x
value (As_(1 − x)P_(x)) of various parent compounds, one can reliably
tune the magnetic character without changing the charge carrier
concentrations. However, very different responses on the P substitution
were observed in a variety of systems, Upon P substitution,
superconductivity appears in BaFe₂As₂, [7] EuFe₂As₂, [8] CaFe₂As₂,
SrFe₂As₂, [9] (122 family) and LaFeAsO [6] as the tetragonal to
orthorhombic structural transition temperature is lowered and the
associated spin density wave (SDW) transition is suppressed.
Nevertheless, no superconductivity was observed in the
CeFeAs_(1 − x)P_(x)O system down to 2 K. [10] We note that the
substitution of Fe by isovalent Ru leads to superconductivity in 122
materials, [11] while no superconductivity was observed in
PrFe_(1 − x)Ru_(x)AsO materials, [12] although the structural/SDW
transition was completely suppressed. All together, these observations
may provide interesting distinctions between the behavior of 1111 and
122 materials upon isovalent substitution, which require further detail
investigations. Among many reported compounds, superconductivity in
LaFePO [13] and SmFePO [14] was shown to depend sensitively on the
overall composition and the synthesis conditions. Stoichiometric LaFePO
and SmFePO are metallic and nonsuperconducting. [13, 15] To date, there
is no complete and conclusive proof for the occurrence of
superconductivity in the SmFeAs_(1 − x)P_(x)O system. In Ref. [15], the
authors concluded, based on the temperature dependence of the
resistivity, that the superconducting window in SmFeAs_(1 − x)P_(x)O is
very narrow, only in the range 0.5  < x< 0.65, with a maximum _T_c of
4.1 K at the optimal doping x = 0.565.

The main objectives of this study are twofold. First, we investigated
the possibility to induce superconductivity in SmFeAs_(1 − x)P_(x)O by
applying chemical pressure through the substitution of P ions for As.
Second, we explored the relationships among structure, composition, and
superconducting properties in order to elucidate the microscopic
structural aspects associated with the macroscopic occurrence of
superconductivity. We have found, through an exhaustive set of
measurements, that the stoichiometric samples prepared at ambient
pressure are not superconducting down to 2 K just as LaFePO.[13] The
superconductivity produced in high-pressure synthesized samples is due
to induced oxygen deficiency, which strongly affects the intra- and
interlayer spacing dimensions and the geometry of the Fe(As,P)4 and SmO4
tetrahedral units.

## II Experimental Details

Polycrystalline samples of the SmFe(As,P)O system were synthesized at
ambient pressure (AP) in evacuated quartz ampoules and under high
pressure (HP). Powders of SmAs, SmP, Fe2O3, and Fe of high purity
(>=99.95

Powder x-ray diffraction (XRD) studies were performed at room
temperature on a STO diffractometer (CuK41 radiation, l = 1.54056 A)
equipped with a mini-phase-sensitive detector and a Ge monochromator.
Powder patterns were refined with the program FULLPROF.[18] Single
crystals were studied at room temperature on a Bruker x-ray
single-crystal diffractometer. Data reduction and numerical absorption
correction were performed using the Bruker AXS Inc. software
package.[19] The crystal structure was determined by a direct method and
refined on F2, employing the SHELXS-97 and SHELXL-97 programs.[20] The
magnetization measurements were carried out with a Quantum Design
Magnetic Property Measurement System (MPMS-XL). Four-point resistivity
measurements were performed in a 14 Tesla Quantum Design Physical
Property Measurement System (PPMS). Micrometer-sized platinum (Pt) leads
were precisely deposited onto a plate-like crystal using a focused ion
beam (FIB) method without altering the bulk superconducting
properties.[21] Point-contact Andreev-reflection (PCAR) spectroscopy
measurements were performed at the Politecnico di Torino, and the
details of the experimental setup were described in previous
reports.[22] Zero-field (ZF) and longitudinal-field (LF) muon spin
rotation (_m_SR) experiments were performed at the _p_M3 beam line at
the Paul Scherrer Institute (Switzerland). In the ZF experiments, the
muons probe the internal field distribution in the samples, whereas LF
experiments provide information about the nature of the internal field,
whether it is static or dynamic. Neutron powder diffraction experiments
were carried out at the SINQ spallation source of the Paul Scherrer
Institute using the high-resolution powder diffractometer for thermal
neutrons (HRPT).[23] Since Sm has a very large absorption cross section
(5920 barn), we used a double-wall vanadium container with 9 mm outer
and 8 mm inner diameters to reduce the absorption effect. Calculated
attenuation length amounted to 0.5 mm for l = 1.494 A, assuming the
packing density 2 g/cm2. The double-wall container gives only 1 mm of
the neutron path, making this neutron experiment double. The sample was
rotated during the measurements in order to minimize aberrations due to
a nonuniform packing density. The refinements of the crystal structure
were carried out with the program FULLPROF.[18] The following scattering
lengths were used: Sm 0.8-_i_1.65 fm, Fe 9.45 fm, P 5.13 fm, As 6.58 fm,
O 5.803 fm.

## III Results and Discussion

### Ambient-pressure vs high-pressure synthesis

Already at the beginning of our exploratory synthesis study, we
recognized a striking difference in the phase purity and magnetic
response of the samples obtained at AP and HP conditions.
Phosphorus-substituted SmFeAsO samples synthesized at AP were single
phase but nonsuperconducting, whereas the HP prepared samples were less
pure but showed some diamagnetic response. This motivated us to
undertake a systematic study. Figure 1 depicts XRD patterns of
polycrystalline SmFeAs1-_x_P_x_O samples with nominal phosphorus
contents of x = 0.0, 0.5, and 1.0 synthesized at AP and under HP, and
combinations of AP and HP treatments. All peaks in the XRD patterns
after AP heat treatment can be indexed based on a tetragonal unit cell
(_P_4/_mm_) of the ZrCuSiAs-type structure. No superconductivity above 2
K was observed for those samples. In the next step, the sample with
nominal composition of SmFeAs0.5P0.5O was heat treated under HP ( 1350
degC, 3 GPa). This method produced highly dense samples, while the
samples synthesized at ambient pressure were not dense, probably due to
the low synthesis temperature (1060 degC). In the XRD pattern of the
SmFeAs0.5P0.5O sample (abbreviated as AP + HP in Fig. 1), besides the
main peaks belonging to the 1111 phase, a few additional tiny peaks were
also evident that could be ascribed to traces of Sm2O3 and SmAs. Thus,
the real composition of the polycrystalline samples after HP treatment
deviates slightly from the nominal composition, as we also quantify
later in the structure analysis. Surprisingly, the magnetization
measurement revealed a magnetic response ascribed to superconductivity
with _T_c = 10.2 K. Realizing the importance of high-pressure treatment
in inducing superconductivity, additional synthesis experiments were
performed.

When the SmFeAs_(0.5)P_(0.5)O sample was directly synthesized from
starting components at HP, superconductivity appeared at $T_{\rm c,eff}$
= 23.4 K [Fig. 2(a)]. XRD revealed in these samples the presence of
Sm₂O₃ and SmAs in a slightly higher amount compared to the AP + HP
sample (Fig. 1). The left inset in Fig. 2(a) displays the temperature
dependence of the electrical resistivity (ρ) of the SmFeAs_(0.5)P_(0.5)O
HP sample. The resistivity exhibits metallic character before the onset
of the superconducting transition. The room temperature-to-residual
resistance ratio is ∼3. The transition width is rather sharp, suggesting
a homogeneous nature of the sample.

In the next step, the HP SmFeAs_(0.5)P_(0.5)O sample was sealed in a
quartz ampoule and heat treated again in the same manner as was done for
the AP synthesized samples. A similar, but opposite effect was observed;
i.e., after HP + AP treatment, the samples become practically single
phase (Fig. 1, HP + AP) but nonsuperconducting. By again applying
high-pressure treatment (HP + AP + HP), superconductivity was recovered
but at lower $T_{\rm c}$ = 18.0 K, and the sample had a less amount of
impurity phases.

Based on these observations, we conclude that the superconductivity
appears only in the nons stoichiometric samples after heat treatment
under HP. Phosphorus substitution for As itself does not influence the
charge doping, but nonstoichiometry, for example, oxygen deficiency, can
introduce electrons into the FeAs/P conducting layer. To check this idea
further, we attempted to induce charge carriers through introducing
oxygen deficiency. A sample with nominal composition of
SmFeAs_(0.5)P_(0.5)O_(0.85) was synthesized in a quartz ampoule in the
same way as the previous samples. To avoid/minimize possible oxygen
contamination from the ampoule, the pellet was completely covered by
NaCl powder. No diamagnetism was observed down to 2 K for this sample.
Subsequently, the sample was divided into two parts: One was heat
treated at HP, and the second part was sealed, together with a piece of
Ta foil, in an evacuated (∼10⁻⁵ Torr) quartz ampoule (process
abbreviated as APvac). The HP annealed sample was again superconducting
with $T_{\rm c,eff}$ = 16.0 K [Fig. 2(b)] and contained some impurity
phases, i.e., Sm₂O₃ and SmAs. In contrast, the sample APvac, annealed
for 3 at 1060 ^(∘)C, was still nonsuperconducting. The right inset in
Fig. 2(b) shows the temperature-dependent resistivity for the APvac and
AP + HP samples. The room-temperature resistivity is larger in APvac
than that of AP + HP. No trace of superconductivity was observed in the
APvac sample, although the SDW transition was fully suppressed, whereas
a superconducting transition at $T_{\rm c}$∼ 18 K with zero resistivity
was observed in the AP + HP sample.

Figure 2: (Color online) Temperature dependence (zero-field-cooled and
field-cooled) of the magnetic susceptibility of the high-pressure
treated superconducting SmFeAs_(1 − x)P_(x)O samples. The determination
of $T_{\rm c,eff}$ is illustrated. In both panels, the temperature
history during the high-pressure synthesis processes is sketched. In the
insets to Fig. 2(a) and 2(b), the temperature-dependent resistivity for
the studied samples is presented.

Figure 1: (Color online) X-ray diffraction patterns of polycrystalline
samples with nominal composition SmFeAs_(1 − x)P_(x)O (x = 0.0, 0.5, and
1.0) synthesized at ambient-pressure (AP) and high-pressure (HP)
conditions. The AP sample with x = 0.5 was heat treated at HP and
abbreviated as AP + HP, whereas the HP sample was heat treated at AP and
abbreviated as HP + AP. The peaks marked by squares and circles belong
to Sm₂O₃ and SmAs, respectively. The values of $T_{\rm c}$ were
determined from the magnetic susceptibility measurements.

Properties of SmFeAsO samples prepared under HP conditions were reported
in our previous publications.[24; 25] When the HP synthesis starts from
stoichiometric SmFeAsO 1111 composition, the superconductivity is not
realized, and structural and physical properties are very similar to the
SmFeAsO AP samples. Following the results of Ref. [15], we synthesized
SmFeAs0.435P0.566O samples at AP condition, and no superconductivity was
detected down to 2 K. Furthermore, we attempted to induce
superconductivity in the nonsuperconducting SmFeAs0.435P0.565O sample by
applying hydrostatic pressure. This idea was based on our recent
observation of pressure-induced superconductivity in
LaFeAsO0.945F0.055.[26] In this material, the application of moderate
hydrostatic pressure up to 2.4 GPa leads to a substantial decrease of
magnetic ordering temperature, reduction of the magnetic phase volume,
and, at the same time, a strong increase of the superconducting
transition temperature and the diamagnetic susceptibility. Since the
magnetic ordering was substantially suppressed by P substitution (for
details, see _m_SR studies in Sec. D), we expected the possible
appearance of superconductivity by application of hydrostatic pressure.
For this measurement, a miniature container of CuBe was employed as a
pressure cell, and a mixture of mineral oil and kerosene was used as a
pressure-transmitting medium. The pressure at low temperatures was
determined by the pressure dependence of the superconducting transition
temperature of pure tin placed near the sample. No trace of
superconductivity for the SmFeAs0.435P0.565O sample was found under
hydrostatic pressure of 1.3 GPa in the temperature range down to 1.9 K.
None of the As-free SmFePO samples showed any indications of
superconductivity down to 2 K, whether they were AP and AP + HP
prepared.

All these results suggest that the superconductivity in the SmFe(As,P)O
system occurs only after a high-pressure treatment, and thus
superconductivity may be related to either nonstoichiometry and/or
oxygen deficiency. High-pressure preparation may induce sufficient
oxygen deficiency and an increased electron concentration sufficient to
realize the superconductivity, while annealing in vacuum apparently does
not produce enough oxygen deficiency to obtain superconductivity. An
even higher oxygen deficiency could lead to decomposition of the
compound.

### Structure modifications due to substitution of P for As

The changes of the crystal structure caused by As/P substitution and the
structural modifications due to pressure-induced oxygen deficiency were
studied by means of x-ray and neutron diffraction. In the P-substituted
samples, the XRD peaks shift toward a higher 2_th_ value. The (001)
peaks shift with P substitution much more than the (hkO) peaks,
indicating that the _c_-axis shrinks more than the _a_-axis (Fig. 1).
The lattice constants, atomic position parameters, and selected bond
lengths and angles obtained from polycrystalline samples after Rietveld
refinement are summarized in Table 1. The resulting As/P occupations
obtained from x-ray refinement were further confirmed by energy
dispersive x-ray spectroscopy (EDX) analysis. For easy comparison, the
structural response to P substitution and to the HP treatment is shown
in Fig. 3. It is evident that the changes in the bond length, angle, and
layer thickness are significant (see Table 1 and Fig. 3). The Fe-As
distance decreases linearly upon increasing x, as expected for P
substitution,[27] and the As-Fe-As angle (_a_) increases linearly.
Compared to the unsubstituted SmFeAsO sample [_a_ = 3.92520(4) $\AA$; c
= 8.4693(1) $\AA$], both lattice parameters changed to a = 3.90422(4)
$\AA$ and c = 8.3206(1) $\AA$ for 50

The Rietveld refinement of the structural parameters of the
SmFeAs1-_x_PxO samples prepared at AP reveals an almost monotonic
decrease in the a and c lattice parameters (and unit cell volume) with
increasing P substitution. However, the response of the lattice metrics
is strongly anisotropic, with the interlayer spacing showing a
significantly larger contraction than the change in basal plane
dimensions. These values clearly reveal the diversity in bonding, with
less contraction in the covalently bonded Fe-As/P layers. The interlayer
contraction is  2.5 times larger, which is consistent with weaker
interlayer interactions. The reduction along the _c_-axis is due to the
contraction of the As/P-Fe-As/P layer thickness [S2 in Fig. 3(a)], i.e.,
a reduction of the FeAs/P height [Fig. 3(c)] when As is replaced by the
smaller P, while the Sm-As(P) distance and SmO layer thickness remain
essentially unchanged with increasing P substitution (Table 1).

These trends are different from that in SmFeAsO1-_x_Px,
Sm1-_x_Th_x_FeAsO, and SmFeAsO1-_x_,[24] where the _c_-axis lattice
constant contraction is due to a large reduction of the Sm-As distance,
while the Sm-O and As-Fe-As layer thicknesses actually increase with
increasing doping. These fundamental differences reflect the fact that
F, Th, and O deficiency brings the Sm-O layer closer to the As-Fe-As
block and facilitates electron transfer, while P substitution in AP
samples is a purely geometrical lattice effect without charge carrier
transfer. We note that the Fe-As distance ( 2.40 $\AA$ in Sm-1111, for
example) is essentially doping independent (see SmFeAsO1-_x_Px,
SmFeAsO1-_x_, Sm1-_x_Th_x_FeAsO2) but decreases rapidly with increasing
P substitution. The reduced Fe-As/P distance may modify the
hybridization between the Fe 3d and the As 4p orbitals and thus quench
the ordered Fe magnetic moment.

### Structure modifications due to doping by oxygen deficiency

Next, we discuss some evidence that a variable oxygen content reflects
itself in subtle modifications of the structure. As noticed in previous
studies,[28] oxygen deficiency in the _Ln_-O layer has minute influence
on the _Ln_-O layer geometry (bond length), but the associated increase
in the charge transferred to the Fe-_Pn_ layer causes substantial
modification of the Fe-_Pn_ bonding geometry. Early theoretical
calculations[29] and recent experimental studies[30] reveal
exceptionally strong dependency of the P-P bond length on the electron
count. Remarkably, Fe-P reacts differently from Fe-As, because of
occupation of anti-bonding P-P states.[30] Qualitatively, the structure
variations in this study appear to follow the same trends. We describe
the anomalous changes in the shape of the Fe(As,P)4 tetrahedra, which
are driven by an unusually high sensitivity of the bond length involving
P to the total electron count.

In our SmFeAs_(0.5)P_(0.5)O HP samples, superconductivity sets in when
the Sm-O bond length becomes longer (∼+0.004-0.005 A) and Sm-As/P
becomes shorter (∼−0.016-0.023 A) compared with those in
nonsuperconducting SmFeAs_(0.5)P_(0.5)O prepared at AP (Table 1). The
oxygen deficiency in the samples can be estimated as follows. From the
neutron diffraction data of LaFeAsO_(1 − y) and NdFeAsO_(1 − y), a
universal relationship between bond length and oxygen deficiency has
been established (Fig. 5 in Ref. [28]): An increase by ∼0.001 A in Ln-O
and a decrease by ∼0.04 A in Ln-As bond lengths corresponds to ∼1

A direct investigation of the oxygen deficiency is a difficult task. We
applied the high-resolution powder neutron diffraction technique to
address this issue. AP nonsuperconducting and HP superconducting samples
with the same nominal composition of SmFeAs_(0.5)P_(0.5)O were
synthesized for neutron diffraction studies. Figure 5 shows a neutron
diffraction pattern and its refinement for the AP SmFeAs_(0.5)P_(0.5)O
sample. The increase in intensity at large 2_th_ is typical for strongly
absorbing materials. Fortunately, the structure does not have many
parameters, $z_{\rm Sm}$, $z_{\rm P}$, and oxygen occupancy. All atomic
displacement parameters (ADP) were fixed by the literature

Table 2: Crystallographic and structural refinement parameters for a
SmFeAs_(0.5)P_(0.5)O_(0.55) single crystal (T = 295 K, Mo Kα,
λ = 0.71073 Å). The absorption correction was done analytically. A
full-matrix least-squares method was employed to optimize F²: Some
distances and marking of atoms are shown in Figs. 3 and 4.

Figure 9: (Color online) Temperature dependence of the normalized
conductance curves (symbols) for the Ag/SmFeAs_(0.5)P_(0.5)O point
contact with their relevant two-band BTK fitting curves (solid lines).
The two-band fitting parameters are: Δ₁ = 3.5 meV, Γ₁ = 3.4 meV,
Z₁ = 0.29, Δ₂ = 11.9 meV, Γ₂ = 9.15 meV, Z₂ = 0.225, w₁ = 0.3. Right
inset: temperature behavior of the two gap values (symbols) as obtained
by fitting the experimental curves. Two BCS trends are shown for
comparison (solid lines).

one, with $2\Delta/{\rm k_{B}}T_{\rm c}$ ratios of about 4 (close to the
BCS value) and 13, respectively. Although the ratio for the large gap is
very high and has still to be fully understood, the two-gap model fits
the data quite well, while the single-gap one disregards a large portion
of the experimental curve and would give an anomalously high
$2\Delta/{\rm k_{B}}T_{\rm c}$ (from about 6 to 8) for a one-gap
picture.

The Andreev-reflection features gradually decrease in amplitude with
increasing temperature, until they completely disappear close to the
critical temperature and the two-band model can follow the evolution of
the curves with increasing temperature reasonably well. The behavior of
the two gaps, as obtained from the fit, is shown in the inset to Fig. 9
(symbols): The small gap follows a BCS trend rather well (red solid
line), while the large one apparently decreases almost linearly above
∼$T_{\rm c}/2$. In the same range, however, the uncertainty in the large
gap is rather big, so that a BCS trend (blue solid line) for this gap
cannot be ruled out.

These results seem to indicate the presence of two nodeless gaps in the
SmFeAs_(0.5)P_(0.5)O compound, in agreement with results obtained by
PCAR spectroscopy measurements on other Fe-based superconductors of the
1111, [40, 41] but also of the 122 family. [59, 45] In particular,
nodeless superconductivity in this compound is also expected according
to the theoretical work by Kuroki _et al._[46]: Given the lattice
constants [a = 3.90664(2) A; c = 8.3489(4) A] and the pnictogen height
[$h_{\rm Pn}$ = 1.319(8) A], by looking at the upper panel of Fig. 19 in
Ref. [46], it is possible to observe that our SmFeAs_(0.5)P_(0.5)O lies
in the "high $T_{\rm c}$, nodeless" region. In this regard, our results
may support the picture given in Ref. [46], i.e., that lattice structure
considerably affects the Fermi surface and, as a consequence, the gap
functions in these compounds.

### Magnetic and transport properties of single crystals

For the measurements presented here, we chose single crystals from the
batches with SmFeAs_(0.5)P_(0.5)O and SmFeAs_(0.5)P_(0.5)O_(0.85)
nominal compositions. According to XRD, they are free of impurities,
twins, or intergrowing crystals and show well-resolved reflection
patterns, indicating high-quality perfection. As a representative
example, the structural refinement parameters for
SmFeAs_(0.5)P_(0.5)O_(0.85) single crystal with $T_{\rm c}$ = 17 K are
summarized in Table 2.

Figure 11: (Color online) (a) Initial magnetization curves of a
SmFeAs_(0.5)P_(0.5)O_(0.85) crystal recorded in the temperature range
between 2 and 17 K. (b) The quantity (BV)^(1/2) calculated from the
magnetic moment and plotted as a function of magnetic field. (c) The
temperature evolution of the first penetration field H_(p). The estimate
μ₀H_(p)(0)≈ 5 mT yields an in-plane magnetic penetration depth
$\lambda_{\rm sol}(0)\approx$ 200 nm.

Figure 10: The temperature dependence (zero-field-cooled and
field-cooled) of the magnetic moment of a SmFeAs_(0.5)P_(0.5)O_(0.85)
(nominal composition) single crystal in a magnetic field of 1 mT applied
parallel to the c-axis.

Figure 10 shows the temperature dependence of the magnetic moment of a
SmFeAs_(0.5)P_(0.5)O_(0.85) single crystal, measured while increasing
the temperature in a magnetic field of 1 mT after zero-field-cooling
(zfc) and field-cooling (fc). The direction of the applied field was in
all magnetic measurements along the crystallographic _c_-axis. The
single crystal studied was of nearly rectangular shape, obeying the
approximate dimensions of 80 x 60 x 5 _m_m³. The observed signal at
lowest temperature is indicative for bulk superconductivity, and the
sharp transition for a small doping spread in the sample. The onset is
estimated to be T_(c) ∼ 17 K.

Initial magnetization curves were recorded for the
SmFeAs_(0.5)P_(0.5)O_(0.85) single crystal in the temperature range
between 2 and 17 K. These allowed us to gain information on the first
penetration field H_(p), which denotes the magnetic field above which
vortices enter the sample. Figure 11 presents the measured magnetic
moment in low magnetic fields, which show the linear decrease of
_m_(_H_) in the Meissner state and the following upturn in magnetization
due to the entrance of vortices into the bulk. The field H_(p) was
estimated according to the procedure discussed in Ref. [47]. The
quantity (BV)^(1/2) was calculated from the measured magnetic moment and
plotted as a function of magnetic field [see Fig. 11(b)]. Here, B
denotes the magnetic induction, and V is the sample volume. Since B =
m0(_M_ + _H_) = m0(_mV_ + _H_) = 0 in the Meissner state, it is possible
to calculate, from the data of _m_(_H_), the field H_(p) above which
this equality is invalid. Using knowledge of m and H, we calculate the
quantity _BV_, which empirically scales as the square root of H above
H_(p). Hence, a plot of (BV)^(1/2) as a function of H allows a
straightforward determination of _Hp_. The sudden increase from zero
occurs due to the penetration of vortices at H_(p). In Fig. 11(c), we
show the temperature evolution for H_(p) for the
SmFeAs_(0.5)P_(0.5)O_(0.85) single crystal as extracted from Fig. 11(b).
The field H_(p) is related to the intrinsic H_(c1), but it is
systematically lowered as compared to the latter due to the reduction of
the Meissner state by the shape factor of the plate-like single crystal,
which unfortunately is expected to contribute significantly. Approaching
the base temperature, m0_H_p(0) 5 mT, which yields an estimate for the
in-plane magnetic penetration depth λ_(ab)(0) ≈ 200 nm.

The crystals with various T_(c) were used for magneto-transport studies.
Figure 12(a) shows the temperature dependence of the magnetoresistance
from 2 K to 300 K

Figure 12: (Color online) Temperature dependence of the resistance, in
various fields, applied parallel to the Fe₂(As_(p))₂ layers (_H_ ||
_ab_) and perpendicular to them (_H_ || _c_) for two
SmFeAs_(0.5)P_(0.5)O (nominal composition) crystals grown under high
pressure. The dashed line and arrows indicate the magnetic ordering
temperature of Sm at ∼4.8 K.

for two SmFeAs_(0.5)P_(0.5)O crystals. For the parent SmFeAsO compound,
it is well known that there is a drop in resistivity around 135 K due to
a structural transition associated with a SDW-type antiferromagnetic
order. As we can see in Fig. 12(a), upon P substitution, the anomaly in
the resistance becomes less obvious and shifts to lower temperatures.
For one crystal, ρ(T) shows a strong upturn at low temperature, which
could be the result of charge carrier localization due to the disorder
in the conducting layers as P is substituted on the As site. In both
samples, an onset critical temperature T_(c,on) of ∼5.8 K and ∼8 K is
observed. Figure 12(b) and 12(c) shows the temperature dependencies of
the magnetoresistance in various magnetic fields applied parallel to the
Fe₂(As,P)₂ layers (H ∥ ab) and perpendicular to them (H ∥ c).
Furthermore, the magnetoresistance shows that magnetic moments of Sm³⁺
ions order antiferromagnetically below magnetic transition of ∼4.8 K
[dashed line in Fig. 12(b) and arrows in Figs. 12(c) and 12(d)]. By
applying higher fields, the visibility of T_(N) in Figs. 12(c) and 12(d)
is not so obvious due to broadening of the superconducting transition.
As we recently reported [48] the complete suppression of Sm
antiferromagnetism would require fields in excess of 60 T. While
structure analysis attests only one overall structure, we nevertheless
attribute the two electronic states, i.e., SDW-type antiferromagnetic
order and superconductivity, to microscopic electronic inhomogeneity,
but this requires experimental verification.

As one representative example of magnetoresistance data obtained on the
crystals from the SmFeAs_(0.5)P_(0.5)O_(0.85) batches, in Fig. 13 we
present the data for a single crystal with T_(c,zero) = 21.7 K.
Magnetoresistance measurements, ρ(T, H), near T_(c) for magnetic fields
parallel (H ∥ ab) and perpendicular (H ∥ c) to the FeAs/P planes show
remarkably different behavior than those of Sm 1111 substituted with F
for O or Th for Sm. [17, 24] In the latter two cases, the magnetic
fields cause only a slight shift of the onset of superconductivity, but
a significant broadening of the transition, indicating weak pinning and
accordingly large flux flow dissipation. In P-substituted Sm 1111
crystals, the presence of magnetic fields shifts the onset of
superconductivity to lower temperatures but does not cause a significant
broadening of the transition. The upper critical fields H_(c2) ∥ ab and
H_(c2) ∥ c extracted from the resistivity measurements are shown in Fig.
13(b). The upper critical field H_(c2) in SmFeAs_(0.5)P_(0.5)O_(0.85)
increase linearly with decreasing temperature ∼1 K below T_(c), with a
slope of ∼5.7 T/K (H ∥ ab) and ∼1.3 T/K (H ∥ c). The slopes in Sm 1111
crystals substituted with F or Th depend strongly on the criterion due
to pronounced broadening. We found 8.0-5.5 T/K for H ∥ ab and 3.3-1.2
T/K for H ∥ c. [15, 23] All these large slopes indicate very high values
of H_(c2)(0). The Sm 1111 structure is more anisotropic than the
structure of 122, which is already manifested in the upper critical
field anisotropy γ_(H) = H_(c2) ∥ ab/H_(c2) ∥ c. [15] The data presented
in Fig. 13(b) suggest that the anisotropy γ_(H) in
SmFeAs_(0.5)P_(0.5)O_(0.85) sufficiently below T_(c) decreases from ∼7.3
to ∼6.6 with decreasing temperature. Such temperature-dependent γ_(H)
has already been observed in the SmFeAsO_(0.8)F_(0.2) and
NdFeAsO_(0.8)F_(0.2) single crystals, [17, 49] and this further supports
a multiband superconductivity scenario, where different parts of the
Fermi surface sheet develop distinct gaps in the superconducting state.
However, in order to clarify its origin, more systematic experimental
work is required.

## IV IV. Conclusions

Polycrystalline and single-crystalline samples of SmFeAs_(1 − x)P_(x)O
were successfully prepared using the quartz ampoule and the
high-pressure cubic anvil techniques. In the case of ambient
pressure-prepared samples, substitution of As by P results in a decrease
in the unit-cell volume and a continuous suppression of both the
ordering temperature and the frequency of magnetic order. The appearance
of superconductivity in the SmFeAs_(1 − x)P_(x)O_(1 − γ) samples caused
by oxygen deficiency was realized only after heat treatment under high
pressure. The pressure-induced oxygen deficiency brings the Sm-O
charge-transfer layer closer to the superconducting As/P-Fe-As/P block
and facilitates

Figure 13: (Color online) (a) Temperature dependence of the resistance
for a SmFeAs_(0.5)P_(0.5)O_(0.85) (nominal composition) single crystal.
Left and right insets show measurements with the field applied parallel
to the Fe₂(As,P)₂ layers (H ∥ ab) and perpendicular to them (H ∥ c), in
various magnetic fields (0, 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12, 14 T). (b) Temperature
dependence of the upper critical field with H ∥ ab and H ∥ c. To
determine H_(c2), the 50

electron transfer. For superconducting SmFeAs_(0.5)P_(0.5)O_(1 − y)
samples, only dynamic magnetism survives, while the ambient-prepared
samples with the same amount of P substitution still show a static
magnetic moment at temperatures below ∼60 K. Point-contact
Andreev-reflection spectroscopy indicates the existence of two energy
gaps in superconducting samples, supporting a common multigap scenario
proposed for FeAs-based superconductors. Single crystals of
SmFeAs_(1 − y)P_(x)O_(1 − y) have been grown under high pressure, and
their crystallographic and basic superconducting state properties were
presented. The upper critical field deduced from resistance measurements
is anisotropic with slopes of ∼5.7 T/K (H ∥ ab plane) and ∼1.3 T/K
(H ∥ c-axis) sufficiently far below $T_{\rm c}$.

###### Acknowledgements.

We would like to thank P. Wagli for the EDX analysis. This work was
supported by the Swiss National Science Foundation and the National
Center of Competence in Research MaNEP (Materials with Novel Electronic
Properties), Project No. 124616.

## References

* (1) Y. Kamihara, H. Hiramatsu, M. Hirano, R. Kawamura, H. Yanagi, T.
Kamiya, and H. Hosono, J. Am. Chem. Soc. **128**, 10012 (2006). * (2) Y.
Kamihara, T. Watanabe, M. Hirano, and H. Hosono, J. Am. Chem. Soc.
**130**, 3296 (2008). * (3) K. Ishida, Y. Nakai, and H. Hosono, J. Phys.
Soc. Jpn. **78**, 062001 (2009). * (4) For recent reviews, see D. C.
Johnston, Adv. Phys. **59**, 803 (2010); J.-P. Paglione, and R. L.
Greene, Nat. Phys. **6**, 645 (2010); P. C. Canfield, and S. L. Bud’ko,
Annu. Rev. Condens. Mat. Phys. **1**, 27 (2010). * (5) J. Day, Q. Si,
J.-X. Zhu, and E. Abrahams, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA **106**, 4118
(2009). * (6) C. Wang, S. Jiang, Q. Tao, Z. Ren, Y. Li, L. Li, C. Feng,
J. Dai, G. Cao, and Z.-A. Xu, EPL **86**, 47002 (2009). * (7) S. Jiang,
H. Xing, G. Xuan, C. Wang, Z. Ren, C. Feng, J. Dai, Z.-A. Xu, and G.
Cao, J. Phys. Condens. Mat. **21**, 382203 (2009). * (8) Z. Ren, Q. Tao,
S. Jiang, C. Feng, C. Wang, J. Dai, G. Cao, and Z.-A. Xu, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **102**, 137002 (2009). * (9) H. L. Shi, H. X. Yang, H. F. Tian,
J. B. Lu, Z. W. Wang, Y. B. Qin, Y. J. Song, and J. Q. Li, J. Phys.
Condens. Mat. **22**, 125702 (2010). * (10) C. de la Cruz, W. Z. Hu, S.
Li, Q. Huang, J. W. Lynn, M. A. Green, G. F. Chen, N. L. Wang, H. A.
Mook, Q. Si, and P. Dai, Phys. Rev. Lett. **104**, 017204 (2010). * (11)
W. Schnelle, A. Leithe-Jasper, R. Gumeniuk, U. Burkhardt, D. Kasinathan,
and H. Rosner, Phys. Rev. B **79**, 214516 (2009); S. Sharma, A.
Bharathi, S. Chandra, V. R. Reddy, S. Paulraj, A. T. Satya, V. S.
Sastry, A. Gupta, and C. S. Sundar, _ibid._**81**, 174512 (2010). * (12)
M. A. McGuire, D. J. Singh, A. S. Sefat, B. C. Sales, and D. Mandrus, J.
Solid State Chem. **182**, 2326 (2009). * (13) T. M. McQueen, M.
Regulacio, A. J. Williams, Q. Huang, J. W. Lynn, Y. S. Hor, D. V. West,
M. A. Green, and R. J. Cava, Phys. Rev. B **78**, 024521 (2008). * (14)
Y. Kamihara, H. Hiramatsu, M. Hirano, Y. Kobayashi, S. Kitao, S.
Higashitaniguchi, Y. Yoda, M. Seto, and H. Hosono, Phys. Rev. B **78**,
184512 (2008). * (15) Y. K. Li, X. A. Lin, T. Zhou, J. Q. Shen, Y. K.
Luo, Q. A. Tao, G. H. Cao, and Z. A. Xu, Physica C **470**, S493
(2010). * (16) N. D. Zhigadlo, S. Katrych, Z. Bukowski, S. Weyeneth, R.
Puzniak, and J. Karpinski, J. Phys. Condens. Mat. **20**, 342202
(2008). * (17) J. Karpinski, N. D. Zhigadlo, S. Katrych, Z. Bukowski, P.
Moll, S. Weyeneth, H. Keller, R. Puzniak, M. Tortello, D. Daghero, R.
Gonnelli, I. Maggio-Aprile, Y. Fasano, O. Fischer, K. Rogacki, and B.
Batlogg, Physica C **469**, 370 (2009). * (18) J. Rodrigues-Carvajal,
Physica B **192**, 55 (1993). * (19) APEX 2 Version 2009.9 (Bruker AXS
Inc.); SAINT Version 7.68 A (Bruker AXS Inc., 2009); SADABS Version
2008/1 (Sheldrick, Bruker AXS Inc.). * (20) G. Sheldrick, SHELXS-97,
_Program for the Solution of Crystal Structures_ (University of
Gottingen, Germany, 1997); SHELXL-97, _Program for the Refinement of
Crystal Structures_ (University of Gottingen, Germany), 1997). * (21) P.
J. W. Moll, R. Puzniak, F. Balakirev, K. Rogacki, J. Karpinski, N. D.
Zhigadlo, and B. Batlogg, Nat. Mater. **9**, 628 (2010). * (22) R. S.
Gonnelli, D. Daghero, D. Delaude, M. Tortello, G. A. Ummarino, V. A.
Stepanov, J. S. Kim, R. K. Kremer, A. Sanna, G. Profeta, and S.
Massidda, Phys. Rev. Lett. **100**, 207004 (2008). * (23) P. Fischer, G.
Frey, M. Koch, M. Konnecke, V. Pomjakushin, J. Schefer, R. Thut, N.
Schlumpf, R. Burge, U. Greuter, S. Bondt, and E. Berryrev, Physica B
**276-278**, 146 (2000). * (24) N. D. Zhigadlo, S. Katrych, S. Weyeneth,
R. Puzniak, P. J. W. Moll, Z. Bukowski, J. Karpinski, H. Keller, and B.
Batlogg, Phys. Rev. B **82**, 064517 (2010). * (25) A. Ricci, N. Poccia,
B. Joseph, L. Barba, G. Arrighetti, G. Ciasca, J.-Q. Yan, R. W.
McCallum, T. A. Lograsso, N. D. Zhigadlo, J. Karpinski, and A. Bianconi,
Phys. Rev. B **82**, 144507 (2010); T. Mertelj, P. Kusar, V. V. Kabanov,
L. Stojchevska, N. D. Zhigadlo, S. Katrych, Z. Bukowski, J. Karpinski,
S. Weyeneth, and D. Mihailovic, _ibid._**81**, 224504 (2010); M.
Matsuiak, T. Plackowski, Z. Bukowski, N. D. Zhigadlo, and J. Karpinski,
_ibid._**79**, 212502 (2009); M. Le Tacon, T. R. Forrest, Ch. Ruegg, A.
Bosak, A. C. Walters, R. Mittal, H. M. Ronnow, N. D. Zhigadlo, S.
Katrych, J. Karpinski, J. P. Hill, M. Krisch, and D. F. McMorrow,
_ibid._**80**, 220504(R) (2009). * (26) R. Khasanov, S. Sanna, G.
Prando, Z. Shermadini, M. Bendele, A. Amato, P. Carretta, R. De Renzi,
J. Karpinski, S. Katrych, H. Luetkens, and N. D. Zhigadlo, Phys. Rev. B
**84**, 100501(R) (2011). * (27) R. D. Shannon, Acta Crystallogr. Sect.
A: Cryst. Phys., Diffr., Theor. Gen. Crystallogr. **32**, 751 (1976). *
(28) C.-H. Lee, A. Iyo, H. Eisaki, H. Kito, M. T. Fernandez-Diaz, T.
Ito, K. Kihou, H. Matsuhata, M. Braden, and K. Yamada, J. Phys. Soc.
Jpn. **77**, 083704 (2008). * (29) R. Hoffman, and C. Zheng, J. Phys.
Chem. **89**, 4175 (1985); D. Johrendt, C. Felser, O. Jepsen, O. K.
Andersen, A. Mewis, and J. Rouxel, J. Solid State Chem. **130**, 254
(1997).

* [108] A. Jia, P. Jiramongkolchai, M. R. Suchomel, B. H. Toby, J. G.
Checkelsky, N. P. Ong, and R. J. Cava, Nat. Phys. **7**, 207 (2011); S.
A. Jia, A. J. Williams, P. W. Stephens, and R. J. Cava, Phys. Rev. B
**80**, 165107 (2009). * [11] A. Amato, Rev. Mod. Phys. **69**, 1119
(1997). * [123] A. T. Savici, Y. Fudamoto, I. M. Gat, T. Ito, M. I.
Larkin, Y. J. Uemura, G. M. Luke, K. M. Kojima, Y. S. Lee, M. A.
Kastner, R. J. Birgeneau, and K. Yamada, Phys. Rev. B **66**, 014524
(2002). * [124] A. J. Drew, Ch. Niedermayer, P. J. Baker, F. L. Pratt,
S. J. Blundell, T. Lancaster, R. H. Liu, G. Wu, X. H. Chen, I. Watanabe,
V. K. Malik, A. Dubroka, M. Rossle, K. W. Kim, C. Baines, and C.
Bernhard, Nat. Mater. **8**, 310 (2009). * [125] H. Maeter, H. Luetkens,
Yu. G. Pashkevich, A. Kwadrin, R. Khasanov, A. Amato, A. A. Gusev, K. V.
Lamonova, D. A. Chervinskii, R. Klingeler, C. Hess, G. Behr, B. Buchner,
and H.-H. Klauss, Phys. Rev. B **80**, 094524 (2009). * [126] H.-H.
Klauss, H. Luetkens, R. Klingeler, C. Hess, F. J. Litterst, M. Kraken,
M. M. Korshunov, I. Eremin, S.-L. Drechsler, R. Khasanov, A. Amato, J.
Hamann-Borrero, N. Leps, A. Kondrat, G. Behr, J. Werner, and B. Buchner,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **101**, 077005 (2008). * [127] R. Khasanov, H.
Luetkens, A. Amato, H.-H. Klauss, Z.-A. Ren, J. Yang, W. Lu, and Z.-X.
Zhao, Phys. Rev. B **78**, 092506 (2008). * [128] A. J. Drew, F. L.
Pratt, T. Lancaster, S. J. Blundell, P. J. Baker, R. H. Liu, G. Wu, X.
H. Chen, I. Watanabe, V. K. Malik, A. Dubroka, K. W. Kim, M. Rossle, and
C. Bernhard, Phys. Rev. Lett. **101**, 097010 (2008). * [129] L. Ding,
C. He, J. K. Dong, T. Wu, R. H. Liu, X. H. Chen, and S. Y. Li, Phys.
Rev. B **77**, 180510(R) (2008). * [130] M. Tortello, D. Daghero, G. A.
Ummarino, V. A. Stepanov, J. Jiang, J. D. Weiss, E. E. Hellstrom, and R.
S. Gonnelli, Phys. Rev. Lett. **105**, 237002 (2010). * [131] D.
Daghero, M. Tortello, R. S. Gonnelli, V. A. Stepanov, N. D. Zhigadlo,
and J. Karpinski, Phys. Rev. B **80**, 060502 (R) (2009). * [132] R. S.
Gonnelli, D. Daghero, M. Tortello, G. A. Ummarino, V. A. Stepanov, J. S.
Kim, and R. K. Kremer, Phys. Rev. B **79**, 184526 (2009). * [133] A.
Plecenik, M. Grajcar, S. Benacka, P. Seidel, and A. Pfuch, Phys. Rev. B
**49**, 10016 (1994). * [134] G. E. Blonder, M. Tinkham, and T. M.
Klapwijk, Phys. Rev. B **25**, 4515 (1982). * [135] S. Kashibwaya, Y.
Tanaka, M. Koyanagi, and K. Kajimura, Phys. Rev. B **53**, 2667
(1996). * [136] P. Szabo, Z. Pribulova, G. Pristias, S. L. Bud’ko, P. C.
Canfield, and P. Samuely, Phys. Rev. B **79**, 012503 (2009). * [137] K.
Kuroki, H. Usui, S. Onari, R. Arita, and H. Aoki, Phys. Rev. B **79**,
224511 (2009). * [138] M. Bendele, S. Weyeneth, R. Puzniak, A.
Maisuradze, E. Pomjakushina, K. Conder, V. Pomjakushin, H. Luetkens, S.
Katrych, A. Wisniewski, R. Khasanov, and H. Keller, Phys. Rev. B **81**,
224520 (2010). * [139] S. Weyeneth, P. J. W. Moll, R. Puzniak, K.
Ninios, F. F. Balakirev, R. D. McDonald, H. B. Chan, N. D. Zhigadlo, S.
Katrych, Z. Bukowski, J. Karpinski, H. Keller, B. Batlogg, and L.
Balicas, Phys. Rev. B **83**, 134503 (2011). * [140] S. Weyeneth, R.
Puzniak, N. D. Zhigadlo, S. Katrych, Z. Bukowski, J. Karpinski, and H.
Keller, J. Supercond. Nov. Magn. **22**, 347 (2009). * [141] Y.
Mizuguchi, Y. Hara, K. Deguchi, S. Tsuda, T. Yamaguchi, K. Takeda, H.
Kotegawa, H. Tou, and Y. Takano, Supercond. Sci. Technol. **23**, 054013
(2010), and references therein.
