Microscopic investigation of the weakly correlated noncentrosymmetric
superconductor SrAuSi₃

N. Barbero

P. K. Biswas

M. Isobe

A. Amato

A. D. Hillier

H.-R. Ott

J. Mesot

T. Shiroka

Laboratorium fur Festkorperphysik, ETH Zurich, CH-8093 Zurich,
Switzerland ISIS Pulsed Neutron and Muon Source, STFC Rutherford
Appleton Laboratory, Harwell Campus, Didcot, Oxfordshire OX11 0QX,
United Kingdom Superconducting Properties Unit, National Institute for
Materials Science, 1-1 Namiki, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 305-0044, Japan Paul
Scherrer Institut, CH-5232 Villigen PSI, Switzerland

###### Abstract

SrAuSi₃ is a noncentrosymmetric superconductor (NCS) with T_(c) = 1.54
K, which to date has been studied only via macroscopic techniques. By
combining nuclear-magnetic-resonance and muon-spin-rotation
measurements, we investigate both the normal and the superconducting
phase of SrAuSi₃ at a local level. In the normal phase, our data
indicate a standard metallic behavior with weak electron correlations
and a Korringa constant $S_{\rm exp}=1.31\times 10^{-5}$ sK. The latter,
twice the theoretical value, can be justified by the Moriya theory of
exchange enhancement. In the superconducting phase, the material
exhibits conventional BCS-type superconductivity with a weak-coupling
s-wave pairing, a gap value Δ(0) = 0.213(2) meV, and a magnetic
penetration depth λ(0) = 398(2) nm. The experimental proof of weak
correlations in SrAuSi₃ implies that correlation effects can be
decoupled from those of antisymmetric spin-orbit coupling, thus enabling
accurate band-structure calculations in the weakly correlated NCSs.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.97.024501

## I Introduction

The absence of inversion symmetry in the crystal lattice of certain
materials introduces antisymmetric spin-orbit coupling (ASOC) in the
conduction-electron ensemble. In the case of superconductivity, this may
result in mixed-parity phases [1], which have increasingly attracted the
attention of the scientific community, especially after the discovery of
the first strongly correlated noncentrosymmetric superconductor (NCS)
CePt₃Si [2]. With $T_{\rm N}=2.2$ K and T_(c) = 0.75 K, it was argued
that in CePt₃Si the magnetic fluctuations induce a nonstandard pairing
mechanism.

Since CePt₃Si, several new compounds belonging to different NCS classes
have been discovered [1]. In particular, analogous ternary compounds
with _weak_ or _negligible_ electronic correlations have been found to
exhibit conventional or mixed-pairing superconductivity (SC) and are
actively under investigation [3]. The study of NCSs with only weak
electronic correlations is key to understanding the superconductivity in
noncentrosymmetric compounds. Indeed, weak correlations make it possible
to disentangle the ASOC, which reflects the lack of inversion symmetry,
from the role of correlations. Accurate band-structure calculations,
focused exclusively on the ASOC splitting of electronic bands, are
therefore within reach.

SrAuSi₃, recently synthesized in the form of polycrystals by means of
high-pressure techniques [4], crystallizes in the BaNiSn₃-type NCS
structure (tetragonal with space group I4mm, SG no. 107). The first
magnetization and transport measurements determined the onset of
superconductivity at T_(c) = 1.54 K and an upper critical field
μ₀H_(c2)(0) of 0.18 T. Subsequently, two theoretical first-principles
calculations on SrAuSi₃ revealed lattice constants and an electronic
structure that are only in partial agreement with the experimental data
[5, 6]. Further measurements of the specific heat and band calculations
[7] suggested a nodeless gap, supporting the hypothesis that SrAuSi₃ is
an s-wave BCS-type superconductor. Additional theoretical calculations
[8] claimed an electron-phonon coupling parameter λ = 0.47 and
attributed the pairing mainly to the p electrons of Si. SrAuSi₃ may be
compared with BaPtSi₃, an isostructural compound with very similar
lattice parameters, Debye temperature, and electron-phonon coupling.
Reference [9] reports that BaPtSi₃ is a standard weak-coupling
conventional superconductor with 2Δ/k_(B)T_(c) = 3.5.

Below, we report a _microscopic_ study of SrAuSi₃ by employing
nuclear-magnetic-resonance (NMR) and muon-spin-rotation (μSR)
measurements. We probed both its normal and superconducting phase, and
show that SrAuSi₃ is a weakly correlated metal turning into a
conventional superconductor.

Section II offers an overview of the employed experimental techniques,
including the relevant settings and conditions. In Sec. III.1 the
electronic correlations in the normal phase are studied via NMR
experiments, whereas in Sec. III.2 the SC phase is investigated by μSR,
and the respective main SC parameters are evaluated quantitatively.
Finally, Sec. IV offers conclusions and a general discussion regarding
open questions about the class of weakly correlated NCSs, with
particular reference to SrAuSi₃.

## II Experimental details

Samples of SrAuSi₃ were prepared using the solid-state reaction method
under 6 GPa at 1000-1200^(∘)C [4, 7]. Preliminary x-ray diffraction
(XRD) measurements were used to verify the sample’s crystal structure
(see Fig. 1). No spurious phases above a 0.1

The NMR investigations included line-shape and spin-lattice relaxation
(T₁) measurements in an applied magnetic field of 7.0571 T. The most
suitable nucleus for our study was ²⁹Si (spin I = 1/2, natural abundance
4.7

The local-field distribution within the material was monitored with the
very sensitive μSR technique. The transverse-field (TF) μSR technique is
often used to measure the value and the temperature dependence of the
magnetic-penetration depth λ in the vortex state of type-II
superconductors [10]. λ⁻²(T) is proportional to the density of
superconducting carriers n_(s), hence it provides information on the
character of the gap in the electronic excitation spectrum below T_(c).
The TF-μSR experiments were carried out at the low-temperature (LTF)
instrument of the πM3 beam line at the Paul Scherrer Institute
(Villigen, Switzerland). To avoid flux-pinning effects, the sample was
cooled to the base temperature in an applied magnetic field of 20 mT.
The data were collected between 0.02 and 1.8 K while warming the sample
in a steady field. Typically ∼12 × 10⁶ muon-decay events were collected
for each spectrum. The TF-μSR data were analyzed by means of the
software package musrfit[11].

Given the low T_(c) = 1.54 K and the modest upper critical field of 0.18
T, an NMR study of SrAuSi₃ in the superconducting phase is quite
challenging. The required spin-polarizing field suppresses
superconductivity in fields exceeding H_(c2)(0). If the chosen applied
field were substantially weaker, the ²⁹Si Larmor frequency would have
been very low, resulting in an extremely poor S/N ratio. On the other
hand, due to the intrinsic spin-polarization of muon beams, TF-μSR can
be successfully used in the SC phase even at small applied fields (∼20
mT), yet it is much less sensitive in the normal phase. In view of these
considerations, we chose NMR to probe the normal phase and μSR for the
SC-phase of SrAuSi₃.

## III Results and Discussion

### Normal-phase nuclear-magnetic-resonance investigations

For a preliminary characterization of the electronic and magnetic
properties of the normal phase, we measured the sample’s magnetization
M(T, H) with a commercial MPMS (magnetic property measurement system) XL
setup. With a typical χ_(dia) of −1.6 × 10⁻⁴ cm³/mol (see Fig. 2), the
χ_(m)(T) = M(T)/H data of SrAuSi₃ mimic those of SrPt₃P [12], a
centrosymmetric superconductor, and of the diamagnetic Au (−1.2 × 10⁻⁴
cm³/mol) [13]. The inset of Fig. 2 confirms that the bulk of the sample
is predominantly diamagnetic. The small positive response at low fields
suggests the presence of a small amount (<0.1

From the published structure-data file [4], Si occupies two inequivalent
lattice sites: Si-I (two atoms per unit cell, i.e., one internal and
four at the edges) and Si-II (four atoms per unit cell, i.e., eight
atoms on the faces). From the 2:4 multiplicity ratio, we expect two
resonance lines, related to the Si-I and Si-II nuclei, with an ideal
ratio of 2 for the peak areas. The observed spectra were fitted by
assuming a simple model [see Eq. (1)],

Figure 1: XRD pattern of the polycrystalline sample. Data were acquired
using the Kα line of Cu (40 kV, 15 mA) and fitted by following a
standard Rietveld-refinement procedure.

Figure 2: Magnetometry χ_(m)(T) data measured at μ₀H = 5 T in the normal
phase (down to 4 K). The inset shows the magnetization M(H) curves at
three selected temperatures (5, 100, and 300 K).

consisting of the sum of two Gaussian peaks, as illustrated in Fig. 3
for T = 100 K:

$$I(f)=a_{1}\exp\bigg{[}-\frac{(f-f_{1})^{2}}{2\sigma_{1}^{2}}\bigg{]}+a_{2}\exp \bigg{[}-\frac{(f-f_{2})^{2}}{2\sigma_{2}^{2}}\bigg{]},$$
(1)

where a_(i) (i = 1, 2) are the normalization factors, f_(i) are the peak
maxima, and w_(i) are their full widths at half-maximum (FWHM), with
w_(i) = 2(2ln 2)^(1/2)σ_(i) ≃ 2.35 σ_(i).

As the temperature is lowered from 300 to 5 K, the shift of the Si-I NMR
line varies from 0.1

As shown in Fig. 5, both NMR lines broaden upon lowering the
temperature, with FWHM values changing smoothly from about 6 to 8 kHz
for Si-I and from 7 to 9 kHz for Si-II sites. From the fits we estimate
a ratio of peak areas of 1.8 ± 0.2, to be compared with the expected
value of 2, as explained above. The small discrepancy is most likely due
to a T₁-induced signal-intensity modulation, reflecting the different
relaxation rates of nuclei at the Si-I and Si-II sites, whose T₁ values
differ by a factor of 2 at room temperature.

In the normal phase, we find a linear variation of 1/T₁(T), i.e., a
Korringa behavior typical of simple metals (see Fig. 6). The average T₁T
value is 6.49 sK, which, by considering the measured 0.14

Figure 4: Shifts of the two ²⁹Si NMR lines vs temperature.

Figure 5: FWHM vs T plots of both ²⁹Si NMR lines indicate a gradual
broadening as the temperature is lowered.

Figure 3: ²⁹Si line shapes measured at 7.06 T. The spectra were fitted
by a two-Gaussian model, as shown for T = 100 K. The dashed black line
corresponds to the reference Larmor frequency of ²⁹Si, whereas the solid
blue lines correspond to the frequencies of the two peaks at room
temperature (RT).

and α is a parameter that is uniquely defined by the value of 𝒦 via [14,
16]

𝒦(α) = 2(1 − α)²∫₀¹x/[1 − αG(x)]²dx.
(2)

The quantity G(x) in Eq. (2) is the Lindhard function for free
electrons, i.e., $G(x)=\frac{1}{2}[1+[(1-x^{2})/2x]\ln(1+x|/|1-x|)\}$,
with the normalized momentum $x=q/(2k_{\rm F})$, where $k_{\rm F}$ is
the Fermi momentum under the assumption of a spherical Fermi surface. An
analytical evaluation of the ζ parameter is not possible, since the
value of the spin susceptibility χ_(s0), i.e., the Pauli susceptibility,
generally cannot be estimated from the measured magnetic susceptibility
χ_(m) = M(T, H)/H, which contains also additional contributions due to,
e.g., the core electrons and the electronic correlations. Nevertheless,
the experimentally determined 𝒦(α) suggests the presence of
ferromagnetic correlations in SrAuSi₃, which, however, are incompatible
with the rather weak Knight shift. From the experimental 𝒦(α) value, one
can solve Eq. (2) via numerical integration and obtain α = 0.34(3). Such
an α value indicates weak but not negligible electron-electron
interactions, in line with the Moriya theory of exchange enhancement
[17]. Indeed, similar α and 𝒦(α) values are found in many alkali metals,
as well as in Cu and Ag, all well-known realizations of the
nearly-free-electron model [14, 16].

### Muon-spin rotation in the superconducting phase

TF-μSR measurements were carried out to investigate the superconducting
properties of SrAuSi₃. Figures 7(a) and 7(b) show the TF-μSR time
spectra, collected at 1.6 and 0.02 K in a magnetic field of 20 mT. While
the μSR time spectrum obtained at 1.6 K in the normal state shows almost
no relaxation, data collected at 0.02 K in the superconducting state
reveal pronounced damping in the μSR time spectra due to the
inhomogeneous field distribution generated by the formation of a vortex
lattice. The TF-μSR time spectra were analyzed using the oscillatory
Gaussian decay function [10]:

$$A^{\rm TF}(t) = A(0)\exp(-\sigma^{2}t^{2}/2)\cos(\gamma_{\mu}B_{\rm int}t+\phi)$$
(3)
$$+ A_{\rm bg}(0)\cos(\gamma_{\mu}B_{\rm bg}t+\phi),$$

where the fit parameters A(0) and $A_{\rm bg}(0)$ are the initial
asymmetries of the sample and background signals, γ_(μ)/2π = 13.55 kHz/G
is the muon gyromagnetic ratio [10], $B_{\rm int}$ and $B_{\rm bg}$ are
the internal and background magnetic fields, ϕ is the initial phase of
the muon precession signal, and σ is the Gaussian muon-spin-relaxation
rate. The last term in Eq. (3) represents the background signal that
originates mostly from muons hitting the silver sample holder and is
considered as nonrelaxing within the muon time window [10]. The
signal-to-background ratio is $A_{\rm bg}(0)/A(0)=0.21$.

Figure 8(a) shows the temperature dependence of σ of SrAuSi₃ for an
applied field of 20 mT, exhibiting a pronounced increase just below
$T=T_{\rm c}$. Figure 8(b) shows the temperature dependence of the
internal magnetic field at the muon site, revealing the expected
diamagnetic shift and confirming the bulk-type superconductivity in this
material. The superconducting contribution $\sigma_{\rm sc}$ can be
obtained by quadratically subtracting the nuclear moment contribution
$\sigma_{\rm nm}$ (measured above $T_{\rm c}$) from the total σ, as
${\sigma_{\rm sc}}^{2}=\sigma^{2}-{\sigma_{\rm nm}}^{2}$. Since we do
not expect any structural transition in SrAuSi₃ over the temperature
range of the TF-μSR study, $\sigma_{\rm nm}$ is assumed to be
temperature-independent. In an isotropic type-II superconductor with a
hexagonal Abrikosov vortex lattice, the magnetic penetration depth λ is
related to $\sigma_{\rm sc}$ by the Brandt

Figure 7: Parts (a) and (b) show the TF-μSR time spectra of SrAuSi₃,
collected at 1.6 and 0.02 K (above and below $T_{\rm c}$) in an applied
field of 20 mT. The solid lines are least-squares fits to the asymmetry
spectra according to Eq. (3).

equation [18]:

$$\sigma_{\rm sc}\ (\mu s^{-1})(T) = 4.854\times 10^{4}\bigg{(}1-\frac{H}{H_{\rm c2}(T)}\bigg{)}$$
(4)
$$\times\left[1+1.21\left(1-\sqrt{\frac{H}{H_{\rm c2}(T)}}\right)^{3 }\right]$$
$$\times\lambda^{-2}\ ({\rm nm}^{-2}),$$

where H and $H_{\rm c2}(T)$ are the applied and upper critical fields,
respectively.

Figure 9 shows λ⁻²(T) of SrAuSi₃, calculated using Eq. (4). The
temperature dependence of $H_{\rm c2}(T)$ was taken from Ref. [4]. λ⁻²
is proportional to the effective superfluid density, $\rho_{\rm s}$.
Therefore, λ⁻²(T) provides information about the magnitude of the
superconducting gap and the symmetry of the gap structure. Figure 9
reveals that $\rho_{\rm s}$ of SrAuSi₃ is nearly constant below
$T_{\rm c}/3\approx 0.5$ K, suggesting a nodeless superconducting gap in
this material. A good fit to λ⁻²(T) can be achieved with a single-gap
BCS s-wave model [19, 20] (solid line in Fig. 9) using the functional
form

$$\frac{\lambda^{-2}(T)}{\lambda^{-2}(0)}=1+2\int_{\Delta(T)}^{\infty}\bigg{(} \frac{\partial f}{\partial E}\bigg{)}\frac{E\mathrm{d}E}{\sqrt{E^{2}-\Delta(T )^{2}}}.$$
(5)

Here λ⁻²(0) is the zero-temperature value of the magnetic penetration
depth and $f=[1+\exp(E/k_{\rm B}T)]^{-1}$ denotes the Fermi function.
The BCS temperature dependence of the superconducting gap function can
be approximated by [21]

$$\Delta(T)=\Delta(0)\tanh\ \Bigg{\{}1.82\bigg{[}1.018\bigg{(}\frac{T_{\rm c}}{T} -1\bigg{)}\bigg{]}^{0.51}\Bigg{\}},$$
(6)

where Δ(0) is the gap magnitude at zero temperature. The fit yields
$T_{\rm c}=1.49(1)$ K, λ(0) = 398(2) nm, and Δ(0) = 0.213(2) meV. The
ratio $\Delta(0)/k_{\rm B}T_{\rm c}=1.65(3)$, which is lower than the
BCS value of 1.76, confirms that SrAuSi₃ is a weak-coupling
superconductor.

## IV Conclusions

A combined study of the normal and superconducting phase of SrAuSi₃ was
performed through NMR and μSR in TF mode measurements, respectively. In
the normal phase, this compound exhibits a Korringa behavior with
enhanced electron-exchange behavior, in line with the Moriya theory
mentioned above. The temperature dependence of the London penetration
depth λ was evaluated from the TF-μSR time spectra. λ(T) can be modeled
well by assuming a single-gap BCS s-wave scenario with Δ(0) = 0.213(2)
meV, which suggests that SrAuSi₃ is a nodeless superconductor. The
gap-to-$T_{\rm c}$ ratio provides evidence for weak-coupling
superconductivity in SrAuSi₃. The magnetic penetration depth was
estimated as λ(0) = 398(2) nm.

Single-band fully gapped BCS superconductivity and weak electronic
correlation confirm the small splitting of the bands in the vicinity of
the Fermi level $E_{\rm F}$, visible only in proximity of the
Brillouin-zone edges [8]. This hints at a small ASOC that, along with
weak correlations, may hinder the singlet-triplet mixing. Although a
mixed-parity pairing is predicted to be a general feature of NCSs with
ASOC, many weakly correlated compounds exhibit a rather simple behavior
[3], as reported

Figure 8: (a) Temperature dependence of the muon depolarization rate σ
of SrAuSi₃ in an applied magnetic field of 20 mT. (b) Diamagnetic shift
of the internal field experienced by the muons just below $T_{\rm c}$.

Figure 9: The temperature dependence of λ⁻²(T). The solid line is a fit
to the λ⁻²(T) with the weak-coupling BCS s-wave model.

here for the SrAuSi₃ case. This general trend can be explained by
considering that the triplet component is very weak, therefore two gaps
of very similar magnitude will be dominated by spin-singlet pairing,
i.e., a mechanism indistinguishable from ordinary s-wave
superconductors. When looking for new systems exhibiting singlet-triplet
mixing, a simple comparison of the relative energies of ASOC and SC
condensate is often not sufficient, since also pairing interactions in
both the singlet and triplet channels are required for the occurrence of
parity mixing. This is evidenced by the fact that weakly correlated NCSs
do not exhibit mixing, whereas their strongly correlated counterparts
(including Ce- and other heavy-electron based systems) may do so [3].

In perspective, further experimental and theoretical work is required in
order to confirm the occurrence of mixed singlet-triplet pairing, since
the role of ASOC and that of the strength of electronic correlations
still remains poorly understood. Furthermore, due to their nontrivial
band structure, topological SC states are expected in several NCSs.
Investigations by local probes, such as those reported here, remain
crucial to support or rule out new hypotheses aiming to explain the
intriguing properties of noncentrosymmetric superconductors.

###### Acknowledgements.

This work was financially supported in part by the Schweizerische
Nationalfonds zur Forderung der Wissenschaftlichen Forschung (SNF) and
by the Japan Society for the Promotion of Science (JSPS) through
Grants-in-Aid for Scientific Research (Grant No. 16K06712).

## References

* [1] E. Bauer and M. Sigrist, _Non-Centrosymmetric Superconductors_
(Springer Verlag, Berlin, 2012). * [2] E. Bauer, G. Hilscher, H. Michor,
Ch. Paul, E. W. Scheidt, A. Gribanov, Yu. Seropegin, H. Noel, M.
Sigrist, and P. Rogl, Heavy Fermion Superconductivity and Magnetic Order
in Noncentrosymmetric CePt₃Si, Phys. Rev. Lett. **92**, 027003 (2004). *
[3] M. Smidman, M. B. Salamon, H. Q. Yuan, and D. F. Agterberg,
Superconductivity and spin-orbit coupling in noncentrosymmetric
materials: A review, Rep. Prog. Phys. **80**, 036501 (2017). * [4] M.
Isobe, H. Yoshida, K. Kimoto, M. Arai, and E. Takayama-Muromachi,
SrAuSi₃: A noncentrosymmetric superconductor, Chem. Mater. **26**, 2155
(2014). * [5] C. Shu, J. Long, S. Li, and W. Yang, Theoretical
investigation of the newly noncentrosymmetric superconductor SrAuSi₃ via
first principles, J. Supercond. Nov. Magn. **28**, 3235 (2015). * [6] C.
Shu, J. Long, S. Li, and W. Yang, Theoretical investigation of the
mechanical and thermodynamics properties of the noncentrosymmetric
superconductor SrAuSi₃, J. Alloys Compd. **650**, 553 (2015). * [7] M.
Isobe, M. Arai, and N. Shirakawa, Superconductivity in
noncentrosymmetric SrAuSi₃, Phys. Rev. B **93**, 054519 (2016). * [8] E.
Arslan, E. Karaca, H. M. Tutuncu, A. Baoglu, and G. P. Srivastava,
Theoretical Investigation of superconductivity in SrAuSi₃ and SrAu₂Si₃,
J. Phys. Chem. Solids **95**, 65 (2016). * [9] E. Bauer, R. T. Khan, H.
Michor, E. Royanian, A. Grytsiv, N. Melnychenko-Koblyuk, P. Rogl, D.
Reith, R. Podloucky, E.-W. Scheidt, W. Wolf, and M. Marsman, Baptist₃: A
noncentrosymmetric BCS-like superconductor, Phys. Rev. B **80**, 064504
(2009). * [10] J. E. Sonier, J. H. Brewer, and R. F. Kiefl, μSR studies
of the vortex state in type-II superconductors, Rev. Mod. Phys. **72**,
769 (2000). * [11] A. Suter and B. M. Wojek, Musrfit: A free
platform-independent framework for μSR data analysis, Phys. Proc.
**30**, 69 (2012). * [12] T. Shiroka, M. Pikulski, N. D. Zhigadlo, B.
Batlogg, J. Mesot, and H.-R. Ott, Pairing of weakly correlated electrons
in the platinum-based centrosymmetric superconductor SrPt₃P, Phys. Rev.
B **91**, 245143 (2015). * [13] L. B. Mendelsohn, F. Biggs, and J. B.
Mann, Hartree-Fock diamagnetic susceptibilities, Phys. Rev. A **2**,
1130 (1970). * [14] A. Narath and H. T. Weaver, Effects of
electron-electron interactions on nuclear spin-lattice relaxation rates
and Knight shifts in alkali and noble metals, Phys. Rev. **175**, 373
(1968). * [15] D. Pines, Paramagnetic susceptibility of conduction
electrons, Phys. Rev. **95**, 1090 (1954). * [16] R. E. Walstedt, _The
NMR Probe of High-T_(c) Materials_ (Springer-Verlag, Berlin, 2008), p.
37. * [17] T. Moriya, The effect of electron-electron interaction on the
nuclear spin relaxation in metals, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **18**, 516
(1963). * [18] E. H. Brandt, Properties of the ideal Ginzburg-Landau
vortex lattice, Phys. Rev. B **68**, 054506 (2003). * [19] M. Tinkham,
_Introduction to Superconductivity_ (McGraw-Hill, New York, 1975). *
[20] R. Prozorov and R. W. Giannetta, Magnetic penetration depth in
unconventional superconductors, Supercond. Sci. Technol. **19**, R41
(2006). * [21] A. Carrington and F. Manzano, Magnetic penetration depth
of MgB₂, Phys. C **385**, 205 (2003).
