# Crossover and coexistence of superconductivity and antiferromagnetism

in the filled-skutterudite system PrT1-x EuxPt4Ge12

I. Jeon,^(1, 2) S. Ran,^(2, 3) A. J. Breindel,^(2, 3) P.-C. Ho,⁴ R. B.
Adhikari,⁵ C. C. Almasan,⁵ B. Luong,³ and M. B. Maple^(1, 2, 3,)

mbmaple@ucsd.edu ¹Materials Science and Engineering Program, University
of California, San Diego, La Jolla, California 92093, USA ²Center for
Advanced Nanoscience, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla,
California 92093, USA ³Department of Physics, University of California,
San Diego, La Jolla, California 92093, USA ⁴Department of Physics,
California State University Fresno, Fresno, California 93740, USA
⁵Department of Physics, Kent State University, Kent, Ohio, 44242, USA

###### Abstract

The superconducting and normal-state properties of the
filled-skutterudite system PrT1-x EuxPt4Ge12 were studied.
Polycrystalline samples were investigated via x-ray diffraction,
electrical resistivity, magnetic susceptibility, and specific-heat
measurements. Upon Eu substitution, we observed a crossover from
superconducting to antiferromagnetic states with a region where both
states coexist. In the superconducting region, the specific-heat data
exhibit a change of temperature dependence, suggesting an evolution from
a nodal to a nodeless superconducting energy gap or a suppression of
multiband superconductivity. This change is relatively slower than those
reported for different substituent ions, suggesting that paramagnetic
impurities have a weaker pair-breaking effect on unconventional
superconductivity in PrPt4Ge12. In the normal state, an evolution from
Fermi-liquid to non-Fermi-liquid behavior was observed, accompanied by
the coexistence of superconductivity and antiferromagnetism, suggesting
that the underlying electronic structure is primarily responsible for
the complex physical phenomena found in this system.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.134517

## I Introduction

A new class of filled-skutterudite compounds with the chemical formula
MPt4Ge12 (M= alkali metal, alkaline earth, lanthanide, or actinide) has
recently been reported [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7]. These new Pt-Ge based
skutterudite systems exhibit various strongly correlated electron
phenomena. The compound PrPt4Ge12 is especially interesting since it is
an unconventional superconductor that has properties similar to those of
PrOs4Sb12: point nodes in the superconducting energy gap indicated by
transverse muon spin relaxation (μSR) and specific-heat measurements,
evidence for time-reversal symmetry breaking (TRSB) from zero-field μSR
measurements [5, 8], and multiband unconventional superconductivity (SC)
suggested from previous reports [9, 10, 11]. Several chemical
substitution studies based on specific-heat measurements reveal a
suppression of superconductivity in PrPt4Ge12, accompanied by a
crossover from a nodal to a nodeless superconducting energy gap or the
suppression of multiple superconducting energy bands with increasing
substituent composition [12, 13, 14].

Unconventional SC seems to be correlated with magnetism. The interplay
between these two phenomena often leads to rich and intriguing physics
with complex temperature T versus substituent composition or applied
pressure phase diagrams, including pseudogaps, structural phase
transitions, non-Fermi-liquid (NFL) behavior, or quantum criticality. In
many Fe-pnictide and cuprate compounds, the interplay between
unconventional SC and antiferromagnetic (AFM) order is manifested in
generic phase diagrams, in which the unconventional SC appears to emerge
in a dome-shaped region near the composition or pressure where the
antiferromagnetic order has been suppressed towards 0 K [15, 16]. The
filled-skutterudite system PrT1-xNd_(x)Os4Sb12 shows the effect of
magnetic moments on the normal and SC states of PrOs4Sb12, suggesting
that superconductivity and magnetism coexist within the superconducting
state [17, 18]. However, such an interplay between magnetism and
unconventional SC in PrPt4Ge12 has not yet been reported to the best of
our knowledge.

In the end member compound EuPt4Ge12, the Eu ion is divalent and the
electronic configuration is the same as Gd3+ ion, J = S = 7/2. The
compound EuPt4Ge12 orders antiferromagnetically with a Neel temperature,
T_(N) ∼ 1.7 K with an effective magnetic moment, μ_(eff) ∼ 7.4μ_(B) and
a Curie-Weiss temperature, Θ_(CW) ∼ −11 K [19]. The value of T_(N) for
EuPt4Ge12 is fairly low compared to other Eu-based filled-skutterudite
compounds with the Eu2+ electronic configuration. For example, the
compounds EuFe4X₁₂ (X= Sb, As) are ferromagnetic with Curie temperatures
T_(c) ∼ 88 K and  ∼ 152 K, respectively, where the enhanced T_(c) has
been attributed to the existence of a small magnetic moment
( ∼ 0.21μ_(B) for the Fe-Sb cage) on the Fe ion [20, 21]. The low T_(N)
value for EuPt4Ge12 is possibly due to absence of a magnetic moment on
Pt in the Pt-Ge cage, leading to a decrease of the
Ruderman-Kittel-Kasuya-Yosida (RKKY) interaction between the Eu2+
localized magnetic moment and the conduction-electron spins [19, 22].
This is seen in previous reports for the compounds EuRu4X₁₂ with
nonmagnetic Ru-X cages (ferromagnetic transition temperature T_(c) ∼ 3.3
K for X= Sb and no magnetic anomaly down to 2 K for X= As) [20, 21, 23].
In addition, EuPt4Ge12 has a large Sommerfeld coefficient, γ ∼ 220 mJ
mol⁻¹ K⁻¹, which has been attributed to Eu2+ spin fluctuations [19, 24].

In this paper, we report a study of the PrT1-x EuxPt4Ge12 system. The
evolution of superconducting and magnetic properties with increasing Eu
concentration x was studied by means of x-ray diffraction, electrical
resistivity, magnetic susceptibility, and specific-heat measurements. We
observed a crossover from SC to AFM and a suppression of SC with
negative curvature as a function of x, and a Eu concentration range
within which the two phases coexist. Our results from specific-heat
measurements are similar to those of previous studies
(Pr1-_x_Ce_(x)Pt4Ge12 and PrPt4Ge12-_x_Sb_(x)), suggesting a possible
crossover from a nodal to a nodeless superconducting energy gap or from
multiple energy gaps to a single BCS-type superconducting energy gap [9,
10, 11, 12, 13, 14]; however, the crossover in the present case is much
slower. In the normal state, we observed a crossover from Fermi-liquid
(FL) to non-Fermi-liquid (NFL) behavior in the Eu-rich region,
suggesting that the intrinsic electronic structure is correlated to SC,
AFM, and other possible complex physical phenomena in this system.

## II Experimental Details

Polycrystalline samples of Pr1-_x_Eu,Pt4Ge12 were synthesized by
arc-melting on a water-cooled copper hearth under an Ar atmosphere with
a Zr getter and then annealed. The starting materials were Pr ingots
(Alfa Aesar 99.9

## III Results

### X-ray diffraction

Figure 1 shows results from XRD data for the Pr1-_x_Eu,Pt4Ge12 (0 <= x
<= 1) system. All of the XRD patterns are well indexed with the cubic
filled-skutterudite crystal structure with space group _Im_3. Figure 1
displays a representative XRD pattern of the Pr0.5Eu0.5Pt4Ge12 compound
and the best fit from the Rietveld refinement. The dashed arrows
indicate the contents of small impurity phases of Ge and/or PtGe2 (at
most up to   5

### Electrical resistivity

The results of electrical resistivity, ρ(T), measurements are shown in
Fig. 2. All samples exhibit metallic behavior in their normal states, as
seen in Fig. 2(a); we show some representative concentrations for visual
clarity. The residual resistivity ratio, RRR (ρ₃₀₀/ρ₀), versus x is
shown in the inset of Fig. 2(a), where ρ₃₀₀ is the room-temperature
resistivity and ρ₀ is the resistivity value right above the SC or AFM
transition. The RRR(_x_) exhibits a parabolic shape with the minimum
around x = 0.5, consistent with the expected minimum for simple alloys.
Figure 2(b) displays ρ(T) normalized to its value at 10 K versus x. The
_T_c value was defined as the temperature where the value of ρ(T)/ρ₁₀
drops to 0.5, and the width of the transition was determined by the
temperatures where ρ(T)/ρ₁₀ is 0.9 and 0.1. A monotonic decrease of _T_c
is observed to x = 0.5, with slightly broadened transitions for x > 0.3.
We also performed ρ(T) measurements down to 0.35 K on the selected
samples with x = 0.6, 0.8, and 0.9; however, there was no sign of SC. In
Fig. 2(c), ρ(T) data for Eu-rich compounds, shown with vertical
translations for visual clarity, exhibit kinks associated with AFM
transitions [19]. The Neel temperature _T_N decreases from ∼ 1.7 K for x
= 1 to ∼ 0.8 K for x = 0.8; we did not observe any clear feature
associated with the AFM transitions for samples with x < 0.8, down to
0.35 K.

Figure 1: X-ray diffraction pattern for Pr0.5Eu0.5Pt4Ge12. The black
crosses represent the experimental data and the red line represents the
fit from the Rietveld refinement of the data. The magenta vertical marks
indicate the position of expected Bragg reflections and the blue line at
the bottom is the difference between observed and calculated
intensities. The dashed arrows indicate Bragg reflections associated
with a Ge or PtGe2 impurity phase. The inset shows a plot of the lattice
parameter a versus nominal Eu concentration x. The red dashed line is a
guide to the eye.

Figure 3(a) shows a log-log plot of ρ − ρ₀ versus T with vertical
translations for visual clarity. The red solid lines represent least
squares fits to the data with the formula

ln (ρ(T) − ρ₀) = ln (A_(n)) + nln (T),
(1)

in the temperature range from just above $T_{\rm c}$ or $T_{\rm N}$ to
∼15 K. Interestingly, a gradual change of n values was observed
throughout the entire substitution range from n ∼ 5 at x = 0 to n ∼ 1 at
x = 1. For Pr-rich samples, they are consistent with the Bloch-Gruneisen
behavior, since they have rather large n values from  ∼ 4 to  ∼ 5, as
seen in Fig. 2(a). The negative curvature of ρ(T) at elevated
temperatures is indicative of a narrow feature in the electronic density
of states at the Fermi level [29]. For EuPt₄Ge₁₂, it has been reported
that evidence of a FL ground state, a T² dependence of ρ(T), is not
recovered even under applied magnetic field at 12 T [19], suggesting
that the system may show a crossover from a FL to a NFL ground state.
For x > 0.5, we observe kinks in Fig. 3(a) where the slopes n change. As
shown in Fig. 3(b), the value of n decreases from  ∼ 5 to  ∼ 1,
suggesting a type of crossover from FL to NFL behavior with decreasing
temperature; this result may indicate that magnetic fluctuations
associated with Eu ions in the EuPt₄Ge₁₂[19] become even weaker with
increasing Pr substitution. The corresponding fitting parameters A_(n)
and ρ₀ versus x are shown in Figs. 3(c) and 3(d), respectively. The
coefficient A_(n) increases monotonically while the residual resistivity
ρ₀ has a parabolic shape with a maximum at x ∼ 0.5. The scatter in the
values of A_(n)(x) and ρ₀(x) are probably due to uncertainties in the
measurement of the geometrical factors of the resistivity samples.

### Magnetic susceptibility

Magnetization divided by applied magnetic field, M/H, versus T data are
displayed in Fig. 4(a). Measurements were made under an applied magnetic
field of H = 0.1 T. The overall magnitude of M/H increases with
increasing x, becoming more temperature dependent. Figure 4(b) shows
superconducting transitions for 0 ≤ x ≤ 0.45 in an applied magnetic
field H = 10 Oe. We defined $T_{\rm c}$ as the temperature where
zero-field-cooled (ZFC) and field-cooled (FC) data start to deviate from
one another. The superconducting volume fractions were estimated from
the ZFC M(T)/H data by using the relation 4π d × M/H
($\equiv 4\pi\,\chi_{\rm vol}$), where d is the molar density of the
samples in units of mol/cm³. The values of the volume fractions,
$4\pi\,\chi_{\rm vol}$, scatter around 1, which results from the
uncertainties in determining demagnetization factors for this analysis.
We fit the M(T)/H data to a Curie-Weiss law in the temperature ranges
from 75 to 300 K for 0 ≤ x ≤ 0.2 due to the observed broad maxima near
75 K for PrPt₄Ge₁₂[4, 12, 13] and from possible lowest temperatures to
300 K for the rest of samples

$$M/H=C_{0}/(T-\Theta_{\rm CW}),$$
(2)

where C₀ is the Curie constant and $\Theta_{\rm CW}$ is the Curie-Weiss
temperature. The average effective magnetic moment $\mu_{\rm eff}$ of
the Eu and Pr mixture is estimated by using the relation
$C_{0}=\mu_{\rm eff}^{2}N_{\rm A}/3k_{\rm B}$, where $N_{\rm A}$ is
Avogadro’s number and $k_{\rm B}$ is Boltzmann’s constant. The best-fit
values are shown in Figs. 4(c) and 4(d). Values of $\mu_{\rm eff}(x)$
increase from $\sim 3.64\mu_{\rm B}$ to $\sim 7.9\mu_{\rm B}$. The data
are consistent with the calculated values, indicated by the red line in
Fig. 4(b), by using the relation

$$\mu_{\rm eff}(x)=\sqrt{(\mu_{\rm Pb^{3+}})^{2}(1-x)+(\mu_{\rm Eu^{2+}})^{2}(x)},$$
(3)

Figure 3: (a) A double logarithmic plot of ρ − ρ₀ versus T for
Pr_(1 − x)Eu_(x)Pt₄Ge₁₂ with vertical translations for visual clarity.
Linear fits of Eq. (1) were made to data up to T ∼ 15 K, indicated by
the red solid lines. The gradual change of n from  ∼ 5 at x = 0 to  ∼ 1
at x = 1 was observed. The thicker solid lines are for reference, with
different n values (n = 1, 2, and 5, respectively). The black asterisks
point out the temperatures where the value of n changes for Eu-rich
compounds. The light-blue filled area denotes the SC region. The
corresponding fitting parameters n and A_(n), and residual resistivity
ρ₀, versus x are shown in panels (b)–(d), respectively.

Figure 2: (a) Electrical resistivity data ρ versus T for selected
Pr_(1 − x)Eu_(x)Pt₄Ge₁₂ samples. Displayed in the inset is a plot of the
residual resistivity ratio RRR versus x for Pr_(1 − x)Eu_(x)Pt₄Ge₁₂. The
RRR shows a parabolic shape with the minimum at x = 0.5. (b) ρ(T),
normalized to its value at 10 K, versus x for superconducting
Pr_(1 − x)Eu_(x)Pt₄Ge₁₂ samples. The superconducting transition
temperature $T_{\rm c}$ decreases with increasing x. The dashed arrow is
a guide to the eye. (c) ρ(T) versus x with offsets for Eu-rich compounds
exhibiting kinks associated with an antiferromagnetic transition,
indicated by solid arrows. The Néel temperature $T_{\rm N}$ decreases
slowly from x = 1 to 0.8.

where the free-ion values of $\mu_{\rm Pb^{3+}}$ and
$\mu_{\rm Eu^{4+2}}$ are 3.58$\mu_{\rm B}$ and 7.94$\mu_{\rm B}$,
respectively. This result indicates that the spin configuration of the
Eu²⁺ ion is stable in our alloy system, as would be expected for Gd³⁺
substitution in PrPt₄Ge₁₂.

The dependence of the Curie-Weiss temperature $\Theta_{\rm CW}$ on x has
a parabolic shape with a maximum around x ∼ 0.5, as shown in Fig. 4(d).
Note that for PrPt₄Ge₁₂, there is evidence of crystalline electric field
(CEF) splitting of the Hund’s rule ground-state multiplet with a Γ₄⁽¹⁾
triplet as the first-excited state [4], while there are no CEF effects
in EuPt₄Ge₁₂ since Eu²⁺ is an S-state ion [19]. The systematic
substitution of Eu for Pr could be a reason for the decrease in
magnitude of the $\Theta_{\rm CW}$ up to x ∼ 0.5, possibly due to the
dilution of CEF effects. The increase in magnitude of $\Theta_{\rm CW}$
for x ≥ 0.5 is probably due to the AFM order.

### Specific heat

Specific heat, C, versus T data are shown in Figs. 5(a) and 5(b) for
selected samples for the sake of visual clarity. Anomalies associated
with the onset of SC were observed in samples with x < 0.45. Since Neel
temperatures $T_{\rm N}$ are below 1.8 K in the resistivity data, we
performed low-temperature specific-heat measurements on samples with
x = 0.95, 0.9, 0.8, 0.7, 0.5, 0.38, and 0.3, down to 0.5 K. In Fig.
5(c), the values of $T_{\rm N}$ (indicated by red arrows) are suppressed
with increasing Pr content until x ∼ 0.38. These results are consistent
with those from the resistivity data. A previous study on EuPt₄Ge₁₂ by
Nicklas _et al._[24] reported that EuPt₄Ge₁₂ exhibits complex magnetic
order at low temperature [indicated by black arrows in Fig. 5(c)]. It
seems these additional transitions are suppressed with increasing Pr
concentration for x = 0.95, 0.9, 0.8, and 0.7 at least; however, further
investigations are needed, since the nature of this complex magnetic
order has not yet been clarified.

The coefficients of the electronic and lattice contributions to the
specific heat, γ and β, respectively, were determined using linear fits:

C(T)/T = γ + βT²,
(4)

in the range from the lowest nonordered temperature to  ∼ 250 K² (data
not shown). In Fig. 6(a), the γ values first increase from  ∼ 45 mJ
mol⁻¹ K⁻² at x = 0 to  ∼ 76 mJ mol⁻¹ K⁻² at x = 0.5 in the SC region and
then increase more rapidly up to  ∼ 224 mJ mol⁻¹ K⁻²at x = 1 in the
Eu-rich region. Such different rates of increase in the γ values suggest
that stronger electronic correlations or Eu²⁺ spin fluctuations, as
reflected in the AFM nature of EuPt₄Ge₁₂[19, 22], are more clearly
manifested in the Eu-rich region. The value we obtained for γ of
PrPt₄Ge₁₂ deviates from the values reported in other studies; however,
this could be due to the different methods employed for determining γ
values [3, 5, 11, 13, 14]. Even though the γ value for x = 1 is about
half of γ ∼ 500 mJ mol⁻¹ K⁻² for PrOs₄Sb₁₂[31, 32], it is still a fairly
large enhancement of γ; further research on EuPt₄Ge₁₂ would be of
interest. The Debye temperature, $\Theta_{\rm D}$, was obtained by using
the relation $\Theta_{\rm D}=[1944(n_{\rm f.u.}/\beta)]^{1/3}$ K, where
$n_{\rm f.u.}=17$, the number of atoms in the formula unit. As seen in
Fig. 6(b), $\Theta_{\rm D}$ shows a small increase with increasing x.

Since the systematic upturns in specific heat at low temperature [see
Fig. 5(b)] are simultaneously present with SC anomalies, our ability to
determine the exact $T_{\rm c}$ values is compromised. The electronic
contribution to the specific heat, $C_{\rm e}(T)$, was obtained by
subtracting the phonon contribution, $C_{\rm ph}(T)=\beta T^{3}$, from
the C(T) data. A log-log plot of $C_{\rm e}$ versus

Figure 4: (a) A plot of magnetization divided by applied magnetic field,
M/H, versus temperature T, measured in an applied magnetic field H = 0.1
T for selected samples of Pr_(1 − x)Eu₄Pt₄Ge₁₂ for visual clarity. (b)
The Meissner and diamagnetic shielding fractions $4\pi\,\chi_{\rm val}$
versus T for superconducting samples. The diamagnetic shielding
fractions are close to 1. The deviations from unity are probably due to
uncertainties in estimating the demagnetization factor. (c) Effective
magnetic moment, obtained from the fit ($\mu_{\rm eff}/\mu_{\rm B}$)
versus x; the value of $\mu_{\rm eff}(x)/\mu_{\rm B}$ increases from
$\mu_{\rm eff}\sim 3.64\mu_{\rm B}$ at x = 0 to
$\mu_{\rm eff}\sim 7.9\mu_{\rm B}$ at x = 1. The red line is determined
from a calculation by using Eq. (3). (d) Curie-Weiss temperature
$\Theta_{\rm CW}$ versus x. As x is increased, $\Theta_{\rm CW}$ first
increases to x ∼ 0.5 and then decreases to x = 1. The dashed lines are
guides to the eye.

Figure 5: (a), (b) Specific heat, C, versus temperature, T for
Pr_(1 − x),Eu₄Pt₄Ge₁₂. Arrows indicate features associated with AFM
transitions and the black asterisk locates the SC anomaly. (c) C/T
versus T data at low temperatures for Eu-rich compounds. The Néel
temperature, $T_{\rm N}$ are suppressed with increasing Pr content, as
indicated by red arrows. The multiple magnetic transitions (black
arrows) defined by Nicklas _et al._[30] are shown as a reference.

T in Fig. 6(c) shows that the upturns in C(T) have a power-law type
divergence; the values of the slopes scatter around  ∼ −1. Therefore, we
subtracted this upturn in C(T) from the data by using the relation

C(T) = γ T + β T³ + p T^(−q),
(5)

where p and q are the fitting parameters. First, we fixed the γ and β
values obtained from linear fits by using Eq. (4) and performed
least-squares fits of Eq. (5) to the data in order to determine p and q
values and subtract only the upturn from the data. An example for
Pr_(0.8)Eu_(0.2)Pt₄Ge₁₂ is displayed in Fig. 6(d). The fitting parameter
q scattered between  ∼ 0.8 and  ∼ 1.1, consistent with the observation
in Fig. 6(c). The SC anomalies after subtraction of the upturns are
shown as a plot of C_(a)/T versus T in Fig. 6(e), showing a systematic
decrease of $T_{\rm c}$, consistent with results obtained from
resistivity and magnetization data. However, we did not observe clear
features of SC for the x = 0.45 and 0.5 samples, possibly due to broad
superconducting transitions and low $T_{\rm c}$ values.

Figure 7 displays semilogarithmic plots of $C_{e}/\gamma\,T_{\rm c}$
versus $T_{\rm c}/T$ for Pr_(1 − x)Eu_(x)Pt₄Ge₁₂ up to x = 0.3. The fits
to the data were performed in the range
$1\leq T_{\rm c}/T\leq T_{\rm c}/T_{\rm min}$, where $T_{\rm min}$ is
the lowest temperature available in the data. The red lines in Figs.
7(a)-7(c) show that the compounds with x ≤ 0.1 are best described by the
power-law formula $b(T_{\rm c}/T)^{-m}$, where b and m are the fitting
parameters, whose values are listed in Fig. 7. This power-law
temperature dependence suggests multiband superconductivity or nodes in
the gap function in these compounds [5]. In the case of nodes in the gap
structure, it is intriguing to note that such a change in m values from
 ∼ 3 to  ∼ 2 may suggest that the gap structure evolves from point-like
to line nodes [33]. In Figs. 7(d)-7(f), the blue lines are the fits of
an exponential temperature dependence $ae^{-\Delta/T_{\rm c}}$, where a
is a fitting parameter and Δ is the SC energy gap; these values are
listed in Figs. 7(d)-7(f). These results suggest that the compounds with
x ≥ 0.15 exhibit single-band isotropic s-wave SC.

Similar crossovers or changes from power-law to exponential temperature
dependence in C(T) the superconducting state were observed in previous
studies for the Pr(Os_(1 − x)Ru_(x))₄Sb₁₂, Pr_(1 − x)Ce_(x)Pt₄Ge₁₂,
La_(1 − x)Ce_(x)Pt₄Ge₁₂, and PrPt₄Ge_(12 − x)Sb_(x) systems [12; 13; 34;
35]. A possible explanation for this change is a crossover in the
superconducting energy gap from point nodes to nodeless structures, or a
suppression of one or more superconducting energy gaps in a multiband
superconductor [5; 10; 11; 33]. Recently, low-temperature specific-heat
measurements on Pr_(1 − x)Ce_(x)Pt₄Ge₁₂ suggest the presence of both a
nodal and a nodeless gap on different parts of the Fermi surface in
PrPt₄Ge₁₂, which are suppressed with different rates upon increasing Ce
substitutions [14]. This scenario would be another explanation for the
noninteger values of m in the x = 0.05 and 0.1 data and the
low-temperature upturns or deviations from the linear fits for the
x = 0.15 and 0.2 samples. However, the latter deviations could also be
due to the fact that

Figure 6: (a), (b) Plots of the electronic specific-heat coefficient, γ,
and Debye temperature, $\Theta_{\rm D}$, versus x. The values were
obtained from linear fits of Eq. (4) to the data. The γ values first
increase slowly to x = 0.5 then increase faster to x = 1 (see text),
while the values of $\Theta_{\rm D}$ show a moderate increase with
increasing x. Dashed lines are guides to the eye. (c) A systematic
increase of the upturn in C(T) at low temperature is displayed as a
log-log plot of the electronic specific-heat contribution, $C_{\rm c}$
versus T. Red lines are guides to the eye. (d) A procedure for
subtraction of the upturn in C(T) is displayed in a plot of C/T versus T
for the superconducting Pr_(0.8)Eu_(0.2)Pt₄Ge₁₂ compound. Open circles
are raw data, the red line is the fit using Eq. (5), and the solid
circles are the C(T) data after subtraction of the upturn. (e) Plots of
$C_{\rm c}$ versus T showing SC anomalies for x < 0.45 after subtraction
of the low-temperature upturn in C(T) for each sample.

Figure 7: Semilogarithmic plots of the electronic contribution to
specific heat, $C_{e}(T)/\gamma\,T_{\rm c}$, below $T_{\rm c}$, versus
$T_{\rm c}/T$ for Pr_(1 − x)Eu_(x)Pt₄Ge₁₂ with x = 0, 0.5, 0.1, 0.15,
0.2, and 0.3. The red and blue lines represent the best fits to the data
with (a)–(c) power-law behavior $b(T_{\rm c}/T)^{-m}$, and (d)–(f)
exponential behavior $ae^{-\Delta/T_{\rm c}}$, respectively.

the values of $\Delta\,/\,T_{\rm c}$ could vary depending on the fitting
range [36]. More detailed studies of low-temperature specific heat on
the Pr_(1 − x)Eu_(x)Pt₄Ge₁₂ system are underway. These studies will be
able to discriminate between these different scenarios and will reveal
the nature of the superconducting order parameters and their evolution
with Eu concentration.

## IV Discussion

Figure 8 summarizes the results from ρ(T), $\chi_{\rm vol}(T)$, and C(T)
measurements in a temperature, T, versus europium, x, (T − x), phase
diagram. The SC transition temperature, $T_{\rm c}$, values were taken
from the onset of diamagnetic signals in the $\chi_{\rm vol}(T)$ data.
For the C(T) measurements, $T_{\rm c}$ was determined from the results
of idealized entropy-conserving constructions [37, 38] (data not shown).
The error bars were taken from the width of transitions in both
resistivity and specific-heat data. These $T_{\rm c}$ values estimated
by different measurements exhibit a consistent trend in which SC is
suppressed with negative curvature up to x ≃ 0.6. The suppression rate
of $T_{\rm c}$ for Pr_(1 − x)Eu_(x)Pt₄Ge₁₂ is different compared with
our previous substitution studies of Pr_(1 − x)Ce_(x)Pt₄Ge₁₂ and
PrPt₄Ge_(12 − x)Sb_(x), which show suppressions of $T_{\rm c}$ with
positive curvature [12, 13]. Since Eu ions have a stable divalent
electronic state in the skutterudite structure [24], the crystalline
electric field effects are expected to be absent. Thus, we could
consider the effect on SC of substituting Eu⁺² ions as similar to that
of substituting Gd³⁺ for Pr. The monotonic change of our $\mu_{\rm eff}$
data [see Fig. 4(c)] supports this scenario. Rare-earth impurities with
stable valences are believed to exhibit ferromagnetic exchange
interactions with a host superconductor (in this case, PrPt₄Ge₁₂)
wherein the depression of $T_{\rm c}$ with paramagnetic impurity
concentration is described by the Abrikosov-Gor’kov (AG) theory [39], as
has been demonstrated for the La_(1 − x)Gd_(x)Al₂ system [40]. The
negative curvature of $T_{\rm c}(x)$ in this study seems to be
consistent with the AG theory, compared with the results of the Ce
substitution study, in which the depression of $T_{\rm c}$ with x
resembles the behavior expected for a system in which the paramagnetic
impurities produce a Kondo effect in which the Kondo temperature is much
larger than the SC transition temperature $T_{\rm c}$. On the other
hand, the substitution of Eu²⁺ ions (hole doping), is different from
that of Gd³⁺ (isoelectronic substitution). A nonisovalent mixture of Pr
and Eu would probably affect $T_{\rm c}$ in Pr_(1 − x)Eu_(x)Pt₄Ge₁₂,
since charge is transferred from the rare-earth guest ions to the host
material. This would, in turn, change the Fermi level, which is one of
crucial parameters that controls SC in the MPt₄Ge₁₂ compounds, as
reported in a previous study on the BaPt_(4 − x)Au_(x)Ge₁₂ system [41].
However, the doping into the Pr site may have a weaker effect on SC than
doping into the Pt-Ge cage, since the Fermi surface of PrPt₄Ge₁₂ is
mainly composed of the Ge-4p orbitals with small contributions from the
Pt-5d orbitals [7]. In the SC states of the Pr_(1 − x)Eu_(x)Pt₄Ge₁₂
system, the situation is more complicated than in La_(1 − x)Gd_(x)Al₂,
as we observed evidence for a crossover in the SC energy gap from
point-nodes to nodeless structures, or a suppression of one or more
superconducting energy gaps in a multiband superconductor [5, 10, 11,
14, 33]. This crossover behavior is depicted by the color gradient below
the $T_{\rm c}$ versus x curve in Fig. 8.

The Neel temperatures $T_{\rm N}$ were consistent between the ρ(T) and
the low-temperature C(T) data. The Pr_(1 − x)Eu_(x)Pt₄Ge₁₂ system
exhibits a crossover from SC to AFM states with increasing x and, more
interestingly, a coexistence of those two states in the range of
0.2 ≃ x ≃ 0.6. Such a coexistence of AFM and SC has been observed in
other conventional and unconventional SC containing localized magnetic
moments [42, 43, 44]. As recently suggested by Singh _et al._[14], our
system seems to show that the nodal gap is being suppressed relatively
slowly upon Eu substitution in the SC and coexistence regions compared
with the rapid suppressions observed in previous reports [12, 13]. In
the nonordered states, i.e., the high-temperature region, the system
shows an evolution of the power dependence of the resistivity in the
formula ρ(T) = ρ₀ + AT^(n), shown as a color contour plot in Fig. 8. The
values of n change from n ∼ 5 at Pr-rich sites to n ∼ 2 (FL behavior) at
x ∼ 0.5, and then enters a NFL state with n ∼ 1 at Eu-rich sites. Such
FL to NFL transition is also manifested by small kinks observed in the
resistivity data (see Fig. 3). In the specific-heat data, we did not
observe a very clear logarithmic divergence (data not shown),
C(T)/T ∼ (−1/ T₀)ln(T/ T₀), which is believed to be a nearly universal
feature of NFL behavior in specific heat [45]; however, a weak power-law
divergence could be also an indication for NFL behavior [45] and the
divergence in specific heat could vary between different systems [46].
Therefore, we speculate that the rather large jumps in the specific heat
for the Eu-rich compounds are possibly the combination of AFM
transitions and the divergence due to the NFL behavior. However, there
are other possible scenarios for the observed kinks in resistivity;

Figure 8: A plot of temperature, T, versus Eu concentration, x, (T − x),
phase diagram. The vertical bars in the $T_{\rm c}(x)$ data represent
the widths of the superconducting transitions (see text). The
suppression of $T_{\rm c}$ with x has negative curvature and
extrapolates to 0 K near x = 0.6. The blue gradient-filled area under
the $T_{\rm c}$ versus x curve represents the change of the
temperature-dependence of low-temperature specific heat,
$C_{\rm c}/\,\gamma T_{\rm c}=b(T_{\rm c}/\,T)^{-m}$ to
$ae^{-\beta/T_{\rm c}}$. The Néel temperature $T_{\rm N}$ decreases
slowly from x = 1 to x ≃ 0.38. SC and AFM may coexist in the region
between x ≃ 0.2 and  ≃ 0.6. The black circles with crosses are the
temperatures T_(n), where resistivity slopes have kinks as seen in Fig.
3(a). The color contour plot in the background displays the evolution of
the power n values in the formula, ln(ρ(T) − ρ₀) = ln(A_(n)) + nln(T).

for example, subtle structural phase transitions, which have been
reported in skutterudite-related systems [47].

Our study of Pr_(1 − x)Eu_(x)Pt₄Ge₁₂ shows a complex phase diagram with
SC to AFM and FL to NFL crossovers, suggesting that changes in the
underlying electronic structure "tune" competing interactions in this
system; this interpretation could be supported by the scenario of
multiband type of SC with different energy gap structures in
PrPt₄Ge₁₂[9, 10, 11, 14]. Since there is no report of the GdPt₄Ge₁₂
compound, it would be interesting to perform a substitution study of
Pr_(1 − x)Gd_(x)Pt₄Ge₁₂ as a comparative study with the current study.
Subsequent studies of density functional theory (DFT) calculations on
Pr_(1 − x)(Eu,Gd)_(x)Pt₄Ge₁₂ would give us better understanding of the
relationship of the electronic density of states (DOS) and paramagnetic
impurities on the nature of unconventional SC in PrPt₄Ge₁₂.

## V Concluding remarks

We studied the superconducting and normal-state properties of the
unconventional superconductor PrPt₄Ge₁₂, in which Eu has been
substituted for Pr. Polycrystalline samples of Pr_(1 − x)Eu_(x)Pt₄Ge₁₂
were investigated via x-ray diffraction, electrical resistivity,
magnetic susceptibility, and specific-heat measurements. Upon Eu
substitution, we observed a crossover from superconducting to
antiferromagnetically ordered states with a region where
superconductivity and antiferromagnetism may coexist. In the
superconducting region, the specific-heat data exhibit a crossover of
temperature dependence, suggesting a change from a nodal to a nodeless
superconducting energy gap or suppression of multiband
superconductivity. This crossover is relatively slower than previous
reports of different substitution studies, suggesting paramagnetic
impurities have a weaker pair-breaking effect on the unconventional
superconductivity in PrPt₄Ge₁₂. In the normal state, we observed a
crossover from Fermi-liquid to non-Fermi-liquid behavior, accompanied by
a coexistence of superconductivity and antiferromagnetism, suggesting
intrinsic electronic structures may be correlated with the complex
physical phenomena in this system.

###### Acknowledgements.

This work was supported by the U. S. Department of Energy, Office of
Basic Energy Sciences, Division of Materials Sciences and Engineering
under Grant No. DE-FG02-04-ER46105 (characterization and physical
properties measurements), and the National Science Foundation under
Grant No. DMR 1206553 (low-temperature resistivity measurements). The
work at CSU-Fresno was supported by the National Science Foundation
under Grant No. DMR 1506677. The work at KSU was supported by the
National Science Foundation under Grant No. DMR 1505826 (low-temperature
specific-heat measurements).

## References

* [1] E. Bauer, A. Grytsiv, X.-Q. Chen, N. Melnychenko-Koblyuk, G.
Hilscher, H. Kaldarar, H. Michor, E. Royanian, G. Giester, M. Rotter _et
al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **99**, 217001 (2007). * [2] E. Bauer, X.-Q.
Chen, P. Rogl, G. Hilscher, H. Michor, E. Royanian, R. Podloucky, G.
Giester, O. Sologub, and A. P. Goncalves, Phys. Rev. B **78**, 064516
(2008). * [3] R. Gumeniuk, W. Schnelle, H. Rosner, M. Nicklas, A.
Leithe-Jasper, and Y. Grin, Phys. Rev. Lett. **100**, 017002 (2008). *
[4] M. Toda, H. Sugawara, K. ichi Magishi, T. Saito, K. Koyama, Y. Aoki,
and H. Sato, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **77**, 124702 (2008). * [5] A.
Maisuradze, M. Nicklas, R. Gumeniuk, C. Baines, W. Schnelle, H. Rosner,
A. Leithe-Jasper, Y. Grin, and R. Khasanov, Phys. Rev. Lett. **103**,
147002 (2009). * [6] F. Kanetake, H. Mukuda, Y. Kitaoka, H. Sugawara, K.
Magishi, K. M. Itoh, and E. E. Haller, Phys. C (Amsterdam, Neth.)
**470**, S703 (2010). * [7] R. Gumeniuk, H. Borrmann, A. Ormeci, H.
Rosner, W. Schnelle, M. Nicklas, Y. Grin, and A. Leithe-Jasper, Z.
Kristallogr. **225**, 531 (2010). * [8] A. Maisuradze, W. Schnelle, R.
Khasanov, R. Gumeniuk, M. Nicklas, H. Rosner, A. Leithe-Jasper, Y. Grin,
A. Amato, and P. Thalmeier, Phys. Rev. B **82**, 024524 (2010). * [9] L.
S. S. Chandra, M. K. Chattopadhyay, and S. B. Roy, Philos. Mag. **92**,
3866 (2012). * [10] Y. Nakamura, H. Okazaki, R. Yoshida, T. Wakita, H.
Takeya, K. Hirata, M. Hirai, Y. Muraoka, and T. Yokoya, Phys. Rev. B
**86**, 014521 (2012). * [11] J. L. Zhang, Y. Chen, L. Jiao, R.
Gumeniuk, M. Nicklas, Y. H. Chen, L. Yang, B. H. Fu, W. Schnelle, H.
Rosner _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **87**, 064502 (2013). * [12] K. Huang, L.
Shu, I. K. Lum, B. D. White, M. Janoschek, D. Yazici, J. J. Hamlin, D.
A. Zocco, P.-C. Ho, R. E. Baumbach _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **89**, 035145
(2014). * [13] I. Jeon, K. Huang, D. Yazici, N. Kanchanavatee, B. D.
White, P.-C. Ho, S. Jang, N. Pouse, and M. B. Maple, Phys. Rev. B
**93**, 104507 (2016). * [14] Y. P. Singh, R. B. Adhikari, S. Zhang, K.
Huang, D. Yazici, I. Jeon, M. B. Maple, M. Dzero, and C. C. Almasan,
Phys. Rev. B **94**, 144502 (2016). * [15] D. C. Johnston, Adv. Phys.
**59**, 803 (2010). * [16] G. R. Stewart, Rev. Mod. Phys. **83**, 1589
(2011). * [17] P.-C. Ho, T. Yanagisawa, W. M. Yuhasz, A. A. Dooraghi, C.
C. Robinson, N. P. Butch, R. E. Baumbach, and M. B. Maple, Phys. Rev. B
**83**, 024511 (2011). * [18] D. E. MacLaughlin, P.-C. Ho, L. Shu, O. O.
Bernal, S. Zhao, A. A. Dooraghi, T. Yanagisawa, M. B. Maple, and R. H.
Fukuda, Phys. Rev. B **89**, 144419 (2014). * [19] A. Grytsiv, X.-Q.
Chen, N. Melnychenko-Koblyuk, P. Rogl, E. Bauer, G. Hilscher, H.
Kaldarar, H. Michor, E. Royanian, R. Podloucky _et al._, J. Phys. Soc.
Jpn. **77**, 121 (2008). * [20] E. D. Bauer, A. Slebarski, N. A.
Frederick, W. M. Yuhasz, M. B. Maple, D. Cao, F. Bridges, G. Giester,
and P. Rogl, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter **16**, 5095 (2004). * [21] C.
Sekine, K. Akahira, K. Ito, and T. Yagi, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **78**,
093707 (2009). * [22] V. V. Krishnamurthy, J. C. Lang, D. Haskel, D. J.
Keavney, G. Srajer, J. L. Robertson, B. C. Sales, D. G. Mandrus, D. J.
Singh, and D. I. Bilic, Phys. Rev. Lett. **98**, 126403 (2007). * [23]
C. Sekine, M. Inoue, T. Inaba, and I. Shirotani, Physica B **281-282**,
308 (2000).

* [24] M. Nicklas, R. Gumeniuk, W. Schnelle, H. Rosner, A.
Leithe-Jasper, F. Steglich, and Y. Grin, J. Phys.: Conf. Ser. **273**,
012118 (2011). * [25] A. C. Larson and R. B. V. Dreele, Los Alamos
National Laboratory Report, 1994 (unpublished). * [26] B. Toby, J. Appl.
Crystallogr. **34**, 210 (2001). * [27] B. D. White, K. Huang, and M. B.
Maple, Phys. Rev. B **90**, 235104 (2014). * [28] R. M. Galera, C.
Opagiste, M. Amara, M. Zbiri, and S. Rols, J. Phys.: Conf. Ser. **592**,
012011 (2015). * [29] N. F. Mott and H. Jones, _The Theory of the
Properties of Metals and Alloys_ (Dover Publications Inc., New York,
1958). * [30] M. Nicklas, S. Kirchner, R. Borth, R. Gumeniuk, W.
Schnelle, H. Rosner, H. Borrmann, A. Leithe-Jasper, Y. Grin, and F.
Steglich, Phys. Rev. Lett. **109**, 236405 (2012). * [31] E. D. Bauer,
N. A. Frederick, P.-C. Ho, V. S. Zapf, and M. B. Maple, Phys. Rev. B
**65**, 100506 (2002). * [32] M. B. Maple, P.-C. Ho, V. S. Zapf, N. A.
Frederick, E. D. Bauer, W. M. Yuhasz, F. M. Woodward, and J. W. Lynn, J.
Phys. Soc. Jpn. **71**, 23 (2002). * [33] M. Sigrist and K. Ueda, Rev.
Mod. Phys. **63**, 239 (1991). * [34] N. A. Frederick, T. A. Sayles, S.
K. Kim, and M. B. Maple, J. Low Temp. Phys. **147**, 321 (2007). * [35]
K. Huang, D. Yazici, B. D. White, I. Jeon, A. J. Breindel, N. Pouse, and
M. B. Maple, Phys. Rev. B **94**, 094501 (2016). * [36] G. Gladstone, M.
A. Jensen, and J. R. Schrieffer, in _Superconductivity_, edited by R. D.
Parks (Marcel Dekker, New York, 1969), Vol. 2, p. 699. * [37] E.
Bonjour, R. Calemczuk, J. Y. Henry, and A. F. Khoder, Phys. Rev. B
**43**, 106 (1991). * [38] S. B. Ota, V. S. Sastry, E. Gmelin, P.
Murugaraj, and J. Maier, Phys. Rev. B **43**, 6147 (1991). * [39] A. A.
Arikosov and L. P. Gor’kov, Zh. Eksp. Teor. Fiz. **39**, 1781 (1960)
[Sov. Phys. JETP **12**, 1243 (1961)]. * [40] M. B. Maple, E. D. Bauer,
V. S. Zapf, and J. Wosnitza, in _Superconductivity, Conventional and
Unconventional Superconductors_, edited by K. H. Bennemann and J. B.
Ketterson (Springer, Berlin, 2008), Vol. 1, p. 693. * [41] R. Gumeniuk,
H. Rosner, W. Schnelle, M. Nicklas, A. Leithe-Jasper, and Y. Grin, Phys.
Rev. B **78**, 052504 (2008). * [42] R. McCallum, D. Johnston, R.
Shelton, and M. Maple, Solid State Commun. **24**, 391 (1977). * [43] M.
Ishikawa and O. Fischer, Solid State Commun. **24**, 747 (1977). * [44]
X. F. Lu, N. Z. Wang, H. Wu, Y. P. Wu, D. Zhao, X. Z. Zeng, X. G. Luo,
T. Wu, W. Bao, G. H. Zhang _et al._, Nat. Mater. **14**, 325 (2015). *
[45] M. B. Maple, R. E. Baumbach, N. P. Butch, J. J. Hamlin, and M.
Janoschek, J. Low Temp. Phys. **161**, 4 (2010). * [46] L. Zhu, M.
Garst, A. Rosch, and Q. Si, Phys. Rev. Lett. **91**, 066404 (2003). *
[47] A. Slebarski, M. Fijalkowski, M. M. Maska, M. Mierzejewski, B. D.
White, and M. B. Maple, Phys. Rev. B **89**, 125111 (2014).
