# Superconductivity in Ru_(1 − x)Sr₂GdCu_(2 + x)O_(8 − y) compounds

P. W. Klamut,* B. Dabrowski, S. Kolesnik, M. Maxwell, and J. Mais

Department of Physics, Northern Illinois University, DeKalb, Illinois
60115

Received 13 November 2000; published 23 May 2001

###### Abstract

We report on the properties of new ruthenocuprates
Ru_(1 − x)Sr₂GdCu_(2 + x)O_(8 − y) (x = 0, 0.1, 0.2, 0.3, 0.4, and 0.75)
that extend the superconductivity found previously in
RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈(T_(c) = 45 K) to the solid solution with varied Ru/Cu
ratios. The compounds have been synthesized in a high-pressure oxygen
atmosphere. The maximum temperature of the superconducting transition is
72 K for the x = 0.3 and 0.4 compositions. The reported behavior of
magnetization at low temperatures can be qualitatively explained
assuming a quasi-two-dimensional character of the superconducting
regions in the compounds studied.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.63.224512 PACS number(s): 74.70.Pq, 74.10.+v,
74.62.Bf, 74.25.Ha

## I Introduction

Recent reports of the coexistence of superconductivity and
ferromagnetism in ruthenocuprates RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈ (Ru-1212) (Refs. 1 and 2)
and RuSr₂(R_(1 − x)Ce_(x))₂Cu₂O₁₀, R = Gd, Eu (Ru-1222) (Ref. 3) have
raised considerable interest in understanding the intrinsic properties
of these layered materials. The crystal structure of ruthenocuprates can
be described based on its similarity to RBa₂Cu₂O_(7 − y) (R123)
superconductors. For both Ru-1212 and -1222 the structure contains
double CuO₂ planes separated by a single oxygenless Gd layer for Ru-1212
or a double fluorite (R_(1 − x)Ce_(x))₂ block for Ru-1222. The Ru atoms,
coordinating with a full octahedra of oxygens, form the RuO₂ planes that
replace the Cu-O chains present in R123. The arrangement of Ru atoms
resembles that in the SrRuO₃ itinerant ferromagnet (T_(c) = 160 K) (Ref.
4) or the Sr₂RuO₄ superconductor (T_(c) = 1.5 K) for which the possible
p pairing of superconducting carriers was proposed.[5] Ferromagnetism
with a transition temperature of 132 K that originates in the Ru
sublattice was postulated for superconducting (T_(c)≈ 30 K) Ru-1212
samples based on magnetization and muon-spin rotation experiments.[2]
This observation raises the long-standing issue of the conditions
required for the coexistence of the two phenomena now in the class of
high-temperature (HT) superconducting compounds. Recent
neutron-diffraction experiments show that the dominant magnetic
interactions present in RuSr₂_R_Cu₂O₈ are of the antiferromagnetic (AFM)
type with the Ru moments forming the G-type antiferromagnetic
structure.[6, 7] The ferromagnetism observed in these compounds was
proposed to originate from the canting of Ru moments that give a net
moment perpendicular to the c axis.[6, 7] This description is similar to
that suggested for Gd₂CuO₄, a nonsuperconducting weak ferromagnet, where
the distortions present in the CuO₂ plane permit the presence of the
antisymmetric Dzialoshinski-Moriya superexchange interactions in the
system of Cu magnetic moments.[8] The presence of both CuO₂ and RuO₂
planes in the structure of ruthenocuprates indicates the need for
consideration of a model where the superconductivity is strictly
constrained to the CuO₂ planes, whereas the magnetic properties
originate in RuO₂ planes. Picket, Went, and Shick[9] reported that
strictly layered superconducting and ferromagnetic (FM) subsystems in
Ru-1212 should be thin enough to allow three-dimensional ordering
through coupling perpendicular to the layers but interact weakly enough
to permit superconductivity. To explain the absence of the apparent bulk
Meissner state for Ru-1212 a model was proposed in which the
superconducting order is modified into a fine structure in order to
conform to the presence of a ferromagnetic state.[10] Recently, we have
reported that the partial substitution of trivalent Gd by Ce⁴⁺ in
RuSr₂Gd_(1 − x)Ce_(x)Cu₂O₈ rapidly lowers T_(c) and simultaneously
raises T_(N) to 145 K for the nonsuperconducting x = 0.05
composition.[11] This decrease of T_(c) is consistent with the doping
effect observed for underdoped HT superconductors. Partial substitution
of Nb⁵⁺ into the Ru sublattice was found to lower both T_(c) and T_(N)
for Ru-1212.[12]

Addressing the question of how superconducting properties of
ruthenocuprates can be affected by the dilution of the magnetic
sublattice of Ru, we attempted to partially substitute Ru with Cu ions.
Previously, similar kinds of substitutions were studied in
M_(1 − x)YSr₂Cu_(2 + x)O_(8 − δ) for several elements M =  Ga, Fe, Co,
Ti, W, Mo, and Re and lead to superconducting materials synthesized in
air.[13] For Ru substitution we have found that the layered Ru-1212-type
structure is stable only during synthesis at high-pressure oxygen
conditions. Here we report the properties of a series of superconductors
with the formula Ru_(1 − x)Sr₂GdCu_(2 + x)O_(8 − y). The series shows a
systematic change of the superconducting and magnetic properties and
should also promote a better understanding of the properties of the
RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈ parent material. For the x = 0.3 and 0.4 compositions the
maximum critical temperatures were raised to 72 K. The reentrant
behavior of the magnetization in the superconducting state at low
temperatures suggests a quasi-two-dimensional character of
superconductivity.

## II Synthesis and Characterization

Polycrystalline samples of Ru_(1 − x)Sr₂GdCu_(2 + y)O_(8 − y) (x = 0,
0.1, 0.2, 0.3, 0.4, and 0.75) were prepared by solid-state reaction of
stoichiometric RuO₂, SrCO₃, Gd₂O₃, and CuO. After calcination in air at
920 degC the samples were ground, pressed into pellets, and annealed at
970 degC in flowing oxygen. The samples were sintered at 1060 degC for
10 h in a high-pressure oxygen atmosphere (600 bar). The crystal
structure was examined by the x-ray powder-diffraction method using a
Rigaku x-ray diffractometer (CuKα radiation). The diffraction patterns
showed that the Ru-1212-type structure formed for all compositions with
traces of other impurity phases present (presumably related to SrRuO₈).
However, no signatures of the magnetic response that could be associated
with that phase were observed for any of the samples. Thus, we conclude
that this impurity formed at a high pressure of oxygen in distorted or
partially substituted form with modified properties. The samples were
ground, pressed into pellets, and annealed again in 600 bar of oxygen at
1085 degC for 10 h. Repeated annealing improved the phase purity of the
material but did not change the temperatures of the superconducting
transitions as verified by ac susceptibility measurements. The structure
of all the samples were indexed in the tetragonal 4/mmm symmetry.
Changes of the lattice parameters with x are presented in Fig. 1. Both a
and c decrease with the substitution of Cu for Ru in the Ru-O planes.
This can indicate increased hole doping with x. The insets to Fig. 1
show the x-ray-diffraction patterns for the x = 0.4 and 0.75
compositions. An additional annealing of the x = 0.4 sample in 200 bar
of oxygen at 550 degC did not change the temperature of the
superconducting transition while annealing at 800 degC in flowing air
and in 1

## III Results and Discussion

Figure 2 presents the temperature dependencies of the field-cooled (FC)
and zero-field-cooled (ZFC) magnetization measured at approximately 15
Oe for the Ru_(1 − x)Sr₂GdCu_(2 + x)O_(8 − y) series. These compounds
are superconducting at low temperatures, but FC magnetization at 4.2 K
remains positive for all compositions except for x = 0.75. The details
of the superconducting transitions are discussed later in this text. The
irreversibility of FC and ZFC branches observed below ∼120 and 100 K for
x = 0.1 and 0.2 samples, respectively (see insets in Fig. 2), resembles
the behavior of the magnetization observed below T_(x)^(on)∼132 K for
RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈ (Ref. [2]) and thus should be attributed to the response of
the Ru sublattice. However, the magnetization below these temperatures
remains remarkably lower than for the x = 0 parent material. Muon-spin
rotation experiments performed for the x = 0.1 sample indicated that the
increase of the relaxation rate observed below ∼120 K should not be
attributed to the bulk response of the material, contrary to what was
observed for parent Ru-1212.[14] It is not clear at present if the
ZFC-FC irreversibility of magnetization curves found for x = 0.1 and 0.2
arises from compositional inhomogeneity (for example, the formation of
Ru-rich clusters in the Ru/Cu-O planes) or reflects the magnetic
response of diluted RuO₂ planes. For the x = 0.3, 0.4, and 0.75
compositions we did not observe any irreversibility of the magnetization
in the normal state. This indicates the absence of long-range weak
ferromagnetic order for the Ru sublattice. However, we should note that
the AFM order, if it is not accompanied by the FM component, would not
be detected in this experiment.

Figure 3 shows an expanded view of dc magnetization and ac
susceptibility at low temperatures. The unusual increase of the FC
magnetization below the superconducting transition, which was already
observed for RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈.[15] shows systematic behavior with increasing
x. In Fig. 3 we denote with T_(c2) the onset temperature for the
increase (x

Figure 2: Temperature dependencies of the zero-field-cooled (ZFC) and
field-cooled (FC) dc magnetization (H_(dc)=approximately15 Oe) for the
Ru_(1 − x)Sr₂GdCu_(2 + x)O_(8 − y) series. For x = 0.1 and 0.2 samples
the corresponding insets show the onset of the irreversibility behavior
in the normal state.

Figure 1: Lattice constants for the series of
Ru_(1 − x)Sr₂GdCu_(2 + x)O_(8 − y) with x = 0, 0.1, 0.2, 0.3, 0.4, and
0.75 (lines are guides to an eye). Insets present the x-ray-diffraction
patterns for x = 0.4 and 0.75 samples.

=0.3 and 0.4) and flat behavior (x = 0.75) of FC magnetization below the
temperature of its initial drop at T_(c1). The T_(c2) coincides with the
temperature at which the ac susceptibility changes slope, reflecting the
increase of the bulk screening currents. Figure 4 compares the real
parts of ac susceptibility measured for solid chunks and ground powder
for the x = 0.4 and 0.75 samples. Diamagnetic screening of the bulk
samples increases considerably below T_(c2) indicating the onset of
superconducting intergrain coupling and shows a complete shielding
effect at 4.5 K.

The much smaller diamagnetism measured for powder would usually indicate
a small amount of the superconducting phase or that the grain size
(approx. 1 μm) is comparable to the penetration depth for this material.
However, in the following discussion we present arguments that the
quasi-two-dimensional character of the superconducting regions can also
account for this difference. By combining the ac susceptibility and dc
magnetization results one can conclude that the increase of FC
magnetization below T_(c2) occurs when the shielding currents start to
flow through the boundaries between superconducting regions.

The onsets of resistive transitions were found at T_(c)^(on) = 45, 65,
70, 72, 72, and 62 K for x = 0, 0.1, 0.2, 0.3, 0.4, and 0.75,
respectively (see Fig. 5). Figure 6 presents the superconducting
resistive transitions for the x = 0.4 and 0.75 samples measured in
magnetic fields of 0, 0.01, 0.05, and 0.1 T (solid lines) and 6.5 T
(open circles). The resistivity develops a shoulderlike feature below
T_(c) , the width of which remains very sensitive to small magnetic
fields. With increasing x the width as well as the height of this
shoulder decreases. If one correlates this behavior with a smaller
increase in FC magnetization below T_(c2) for compositions with higher x
(see Fig. 3) it can be concluded that the interfaces

Figure 4: Temperature dependencies of the ac susceptibility for powder
and bulk samples for x = 0.4 (a) and 0.75 (b). Insets present the onset
of the transitions in the expanded scale. H_(∞)= 1 Oe, f = 200 Hz.

Figure 3: Temperature dependencies of the zero-field-cooled (closed
circles) and field-cooled (closed squares) dc magnetization
($H_{\rm dc}$= approximately15 Oe) and ac susceptibility (open circles,
$H_{\rm ac}$= 1 Oe,200 Hz) for the Ru_(1 − x)Sr_(x)GdCu_(2 + x)O_(8 − y)
series. With an expanded scale for the superconducting region, the
spread of the data points within M(T) dependencies reflects the
limitation of the measurement’s sensitivity. For the description of
T_(c2) and T_(c1) , see text.

between superconducting regions less efficiently affect the properties
of compounds containing less Ru in the crystal structure. This pattern
also seems to hold for the parent Ru-1212 for which the increase of FC
magnetization is considerably more pronounced than for x ≠ 0 compounds
and its T_(c2) also correlates with the temperature of the onset of bulk
diamagnetism (compare with Ref. [15]).

The temperature dependencies of ZFC dc susceptibility at 35, 45, 100,
200, 350, 500, and 1000 Oe for the bulk x = 0.75 sample are presented in
Fig. 7. The susceptibility decreases at the superconducting transition
and then increases at lower temperatures for $H_{\rm dc}$≈ 50 Oe. In
spite of the zero resistance preserved in high magnetic fields at low
temperatures [see Fig. 6 for ρ(_T_) at $H_{\rm dc}$= 6.5 T] the ZFC
magnetization at 4.5 K remains negative only for magnetic fields lower
than approximately 350 Oe. For intermediate values of the magnetic field
the additional decrease of the magnetization in the superconducting
state is observed (denoted by dots in Fig. 7). By comparing the FC and
ZFC magnetization at 500 Oe measured for a chunk of the x = 0.75 sample
[Fig. 8(a), open squares] with the magnetization measured for powder
[Fig. 8(a), closed squares] one can correlate this decrease to the
effect of enhanced diamagnetic response below the onset temperature for
bulk superconducting screening. Interestingly, below this temperature
the FC branch remains higher than the magnetization measured for powder.
Similar behavior of FC magnetization was also observed for samples with
smaller x at lower dc fields. Figure 8(b) shows the ZFC magnetization
measured at $H_{\rm dc}$ = 500 Oe for powder samples of x = 0.4 and 0.75
and for nonsuperconducting GdBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − y) (y ≈ 0.8). By comparing
these dependencies two contributions to the signal can be separated for
x = 0.4 and 0.75: a diamagnetism related to superconductivity and the
paramagnetic response of Gd⁺³ ions. Paramagnetic behavior in the
presence of superconductivity can be qualitatively understood assuming a
quasi-two-dimensional character of superconducting layers separated by
nonsuperconducting regions. For polycrystalline samples with randomly
oriented crystallines, the paramagnetic response would arise from the
crystallines for which superconducting layers are oriented parallel to
the external field that can penetrate the space between them. A similar
effect was recently proposed to explain the anisotropy of magnetic
susceptibility (for H⊥ab and H||ab) observed for high oxygen deficient
(i.e., strongly underdoped) superconducting GdBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − y) single
crystals. [16]

Figure 9 presents the M(H) dependencies for the x =0.75 sample measured
at 4.5, 20, and 50 K and magnetic fields changed between − 500 and 500
Oe. The first critical field at 4.5 K is estimated to be approximately
10 Oe [Fig. 9(a)]. The hysteresis loops can be interpreted as the
superposition of the magnetic and superconducting components. The
magnetic response at low temperatures arises from the paramagnetism of
Gd³⁺ ions. As this magnetic contribution decreases with increasing
temperature, the magnetization remains negative for higher fields and
presents complex hysteretic behavior [see Fig. 9(b)]. Above the
temperature of

Figure 8: Temperature dependencies of ZFC and FC dc magnetization for
powder (closed squares) and bulk (open squares) x = 0.75 sample (a); ZFC
dc magnetization for x = 0.4 (circles) and 0.75 (squares) powder samples
(b). Dotted line shows the corresponding dependence for
nonsuperconducting GdBa₂Cu₃O_(6.2) compound. $H_{\rm dc}$= 500 Oe.

Figure 7: Temperature dependencies of ZFC dc susceptibility measured for
x = 0.75 sample at 35, 45, 100, 200, 350, 500, and 1000 Oe. Inset shows
the behavior in the expanded scale. Closed squares mark temperatures for
the onset of bulk superconducting screening (see text).

Figure 9: The magnetic-field dependencies of the magnetization measured
at (a) 4.5, (b) 20, and (c) 50 K for x = 0.75 sample. The field was
cycled between −500 and 500 Oe.

the superconducting transition the M(H) dependence reflects only the
paramagnetism of Gd³⁺ ions (not shown). A detailed discussion of the
low-field magnetization behavior for Ru_(1 − x)Sr₂GdCu_(2 + x)O_(8 − y)
will be presented separately.

The high magnetic-field magnetization dependencies collected at 4.5 K
for the whole series of Ru_(1 − x)Sr₂GdCu_(2 + x)O_(8 − y) are presented
in Fig. 10. In this experiment the magnetic field was changed between
−6.5 and 6.5 T in 1000-0c steps, so the data does not delineate the
complicated M(T) behavior below 1000 Oe shown in Fig. 9(a). The
magnetizations for x ≠ 0 samples are presented with solid lines that
appear to converge to the curve obtained for nonsuperconducting
GdBa₂Cu₃O_(6.2) (open circles). The closed circles in Fig. 10 represent
the magnetization of the RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈ parent compound. By comparing
parent and x ≠ 0 samples it can be concluded that no additional
contribution from the Ru sublattice to the measured signal is observed
for the diluted Ru sublattice, i.e., magnetic response is characteristic
for the paramagnetic Gd³⁺ ions as seen in GdBa₂Cu₃O_(6.2). Larger
magnetization values measured for RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈ indicate that only for
this compound the long-range weak ferromagnetism of the Ru sublattice
contributes to the high-field magnetization by increasing its value by
about 1 μ_(B) . We should note that this contribution suggests the
considerable ferromagnetic alignment of the Ru moments at high magnetic
fields. However, the main magnetic contribution to the magnetization of
RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈ arises from the paramagnetic system of Gd³⁺ ions. This can
also indicate the constrained dimensionality of the superconducting
regions in this material.

In conclusion, we report that the series of superconducting compounds
with the formula Ru_(1 − x)Sr₂GdCu_(2 + x)O_(8 − y) can be successfully
synthesized at a high pressure of oxygen. The maximum T_(c)^(on) = 72 K
(x = 0.3 and 0.4) remarkably exceeds the superconducting transition
temperature reported for RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈ (T_(c)^(on) = 45 K). The
signatures of the magnetic ordering of the Ru sublattice above the
superconducting T_(c) are present only for the x = 0.1 and 0.2 samples.
However, this feature cannot be unambiguously attributed to the bulk of
the material, and detailed muon-spin rotation and neutron-diffraction
experiments are necessary to resolve the magnetic behavior of the Ru
sublattice diluted with Cu ions. The observed reentrant behavior of
magnetization below T_(c) as well as its magnetic-field dependence
indicate that at low temperatures the magnetization becomes dominated by
the paramagnetic response of the sublattice of Gd³⁺ ions. This
observation was qualitatively explained assuming a strong
quasi-two-dimensional character of superconducting regions. Further
studies of the nanosized characteristics of these compounds are required
to investigate the suggested inhomogeneity of the superconducting phase.

## Acknowledgments

This work was supported by the ARPA/ONR and by the State of Illinois
under HECA. It is a pleasure to acknowledge stimulating discussions with
Dr. George Crabtree and Dr. Clyde Kimball.

## References

* [*] Corresponding author. Also at Institute of Low Temperature and
Structure Research, Polish Academy of Sciences, P.O. Box 937, 50-950
Wroclaw, Poland. Email address: klamut@niu.edu * [3] L. Bauernfeind, W.
Widder, and H. F. Braun, Physica C **254**, 151 (1995). * [4] C.
Bernhard, J. L. Tallon, Ch. Niedermayer, Th. Blasius, A. Golnik, E.
Brucher, R. K. Kremer, D. R. Noakes, C. E. Stronach, and E. J. Ansaldo,
Phys. Rev. B **59**, 14 099 (1999). * [5] I. Felner, U. Asaf, Y. Levi,
and O. Millo, Phys. Rev. B **55**, R3374 (1997). * [6] B. J. Kennedy and
B. Hunter, Phys. Rev. B **58**, 653 (1998). * [7] Y. Maeno, H.
Hashimoto, K. Yoshida, S. Nishizaki, T. Fujita, J. G. Bednorz, and F.
Lichtenberg, Nature (London) **372**, 532 (1994). * [8] J. W. Lynn, B.
Keimer, C. Ulrich, C. Bernhard, and J. L. Tallon, Phys. Rev. B **61**,
R14 964 (2000). * [9] O. Chmaissem, J. D. Jorgensen, H. Shaked, P.
Dollar, and J. L. Tallon, Phys. Rev. B **61**, 6401 (2000); J. D.
Jorgensen, O. Chmaissem, H. Shaked, S. Short, P. W. Klamut, B.
Dabrowski, and J. L. Tallon, _ibid._**63**, 054440 (2001). * [10] J. D.
Thompson, S.-W. Cheong, S. E. Brown, Z. Fisk, S. B. Oseroff, M. Tovar,
D. C. Vier, and S. Shoultz, Phys. Rev. B **39**, 6660 (1989); P. W.
Klamut, _ibid._**50**, 13 009 (1994). * [11] W. E. Pickett, R. Weht, and
A. B. Shick, Phys. Rev. Lett. **83**, 3713 (1999). * [12] C. W. Chu, Y.
Y. Xue, R. L. Meng, J. Cmaidalka, L. M. Deza-neti, Y. S. Wang, B.
Lorenz, and A. K. Heilman, cond-mat/9910056v3 (unpublished); Phys. Rev.
Lett. (to be published). * [13] P. W. Klamut, B. Dabrowski, J. Mais, and
M. Maxwell, Physica C **350**, 24 (2001). * [14] A. C. McLaughlin and J.
P. Attfield (unpublished). * [15] B. Dabrowski, K. Rogacki, J. W.
Koenitzer, K. R. Poeppelmeier, and J. D. Jorgensen, Physica C **277**,
24 (1997); T. Den, and T.

Figure 10: The magnetic-field dependencies of the magnetization measured
at 4.5 K for Ru_(1 − x)Sr₂GdCu_(2 + x)O_(8 − y) samples (solid lines
converge to one curve). Closed circles show the behavior of
superconducting RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈, open circles of nonsuperconducting
GdBa₂Cu₃O_(6.2).

Kobayashi, _ibid._**196**, 141 (1992). * [14] P. W. Klamut, A.
Shengelaya, R. Khasanov, I. Savic, H. Keller, B. Dabrowski, and M.
Maxwell (unpublished). * [15] P. W. Klamut, B. Dabrowski, M. Maxwell, J.
Mais, O. Chmaissem, R. Kruk, R. Kmiec, and C. W. Kimball, Physica C
**341-348**, 455 (2000). * [16] S. Kolesnik, T. Skoskiewicz, J. Igalson,
M. Sawicki, and V. P. Dyakonov, Solid State Commun. **97**, 957 (1996).
