Investigation of superconducting and normal-state properties of the
filled-skutterudite system PrPt₄Ge_(12 − x)Sb_(x)

I. Jeon

Materials Science and Engineering Program, University of California, San
Diego, La Jolla, California 92093, USA Center for Advanced Nanoscience,
University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, California 92093, USA

K. Huang

Materials Science and Engineering Program, University of California, San
Diego, La Jolla, California 92093, USA Center for Advanced Nanoscience,
University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, California 92093, USA
Department of Physics, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla,
California 92093, USA

D. Yazici

Department of Physics, California State University, Fresno, California
93740, USA Department of Physics, University of California, San Diego,
La Jolla, California 92093, USA

N. Kanchanavate

Department of Physics, California State University, Fresno, California
93740, USA Department of Physics, University of California, San Diego,
La Jolla, California 92093, USA

B. D. White

Center for Advanced Nanoscience, University of California, San Diego, La
Jolla, California 92093, USA Department of Physics, University of
California, San Diego, La Jolla, California 92093, USA Department of
Physics, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, California
92093, USA

P.-C. Ho

Department of Physics, California State University, Fresno, California
93740, USA

S. Jang

Materials Science and Engineering Program, University of California, San
Diego, La Jolla, California 92093, USA Center for Advanced Nanoscience,
University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, California 92093, USA
Department of Physics, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla,
California 92093, USA

N. Pouse

Center for Advanced Nanoscience, University of California, San Diego, La
Jolla, California 92093, USA Department of Physics, University of
California, San Diego, La Jolla, California 92093, USA

M. B. Maple

Materials Science and Engineering Program, University of California, San
Diego, La Jolla, California 92093, USA Department of Physics, University
of California, San Diego, La Jolla, California 92093, USA Department of
Physics, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, California
92093, USA

###### Abstract

We report a study of the superconducting and normal-state properties of
the filled-skutterudite system PrPt₄Ge_(12 − x)Sb_(x). Polycrystalline
samples with Sb concentrations up to x = 5 were synthesized and
investigated by means of x-ray diffraction, electrical resistivity,
magnetic susceptibility, and specific heat measurements. We observed a
suppression of superconductivity with increasing Sb substitution up to
x = 4, above which no signature of superconductivity was observed down
to 140 mK. The Sommerfeld coefficient, γ, of superconducting specimens
decreases with increasing x up to x = 3, suggesting that
superconductivity may depend on the density of electronic states in this
system. The specific heat for x = 0.5 exhibits an exponential
temperature dependence in the superconducting state, reminiscent of a
nodeless superconducting energy gap. We observed evidence for a weak
"rattling" mode associated with the Pr ions, characterized by an
Einstein temperature $\Theta_{\rm E}\sim 60$ K for 0 ≤ x ≤ 5; however,
the rattling mode may not play any role in suppressing
superconductivity.

doi:10.1103/PhysRevB.93.104507

246-9950/2016/93(10)104507

## I Introduction

Filled-skutterudite compounds with the generic chemical formula MT₄X₁₂,
where M is an alkali metal, alkaline earth, lanthanide, or actinide, T
is a transition metal from the Fe or Co column, and X is a pnictogen
[1], have been of interest to physicists and chemists worldwide due to
the various types of strongly correlated electron behaviors they exhibit
and their potential for use in applications; intriguing properties
studied in filled-skutterudite compounds include conventional BCS-type
superconductivity, unconventional superconductivity, Kondo-lattice
behavior, valence fluctuations, non-Fermi-liquid behavior, heavy-fermion
behavior, Kondo-insulator behavior, metal-insulator transitions,
magnetic ordering, spin fluctuations, and quadrupolar order [2, 3, 4, 5,
6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16]. Filled-skutterudite compounds
also have demonstrated potential viability for use in thermoelectric
applications [3, 14, 15].

Among the filled-skutterudite compounds, Pr-based systems, in
particular, exhibit unusual physical properties [2, 4, 12, 17, 18],
including a metal-insulator transition and a low-field ordered phase in
PrRu₄P₁₂ and PrFe₄P₁₂, respectively [17, 19]. The heavy-fermion
superconducting state in PrOs₄Sb₁₂ has attracted considerable interest
and was the first such state to be discovered in a Pr-based system. It
has a very large Sommerfeld coefficient, γ ∼ 500 mJ/mol K²[4, 11], and
exhibits unconventional superconductivity in which there is evidence for
time-reversal-symmetry breaking [8], multiple superconducting bands [16,
20, 21], point nodes in the energy gap [21, 22], and potential
spin-triplet pairing of electrons [23].

Recently, a new class of filled-skutterudite compounds with the chemical
formula MPt₄Ge₁₂ has been synthesized and studied [24, 25, 26, 27, 28,
29, 30]. The compounds with M= Sr, Ba, La, Pr, and Th have all been
found to display superconductivity. For (Sr,Ba)Pt₄Ge₁₂, the
superconducting transition temperatures, T_(c), are ∼5.4 and 5.1 K,
respectively, and BCS-like superconductivity is observed, originating
from the Pt-Ge cage structure. For (La,Pr)Pt₄Ge₁₂, superconductivity
occurs at relatively high temperatures of T_(c) ∼ 8.2 and 7.9 K,
respectively. Both LaPt₄Ge₁₂ and ThPt₄Ge₁₂ exhibit conventional BCS-type
superconductivity; however, ThPt₄Ge₁₂ was also found to be a clean-limit
strong-coupling superconductor with T_(c) = 4.6 K.

In contrast, the compound PrPt₄Ge₁₂ displays unconventional
superconductivity that is similar to that of PrOs₄Sb₁₂ in several ways.
Transverse muon spin relaxation (μSR) and specific heat measurements
suggest point nodes in the superconducting energy gap of PrPt₄Ge₁₂, and
zero-field μSR measurements provide evidence for time-reversal-symmetry
breaking in the superconducting state [28, 31]. The compound PrPt₄Ge₁₂
exhibits a similar type of multiband unconventional superconductivity
[32, 33, 34]. A recent study of Ce substitution into the filler sites
for Pr ions in PrPt₄Ge₁₂ reported the suppression of superconductivity
with increasing Ce concentration and suggested a crossover from a nodal
to nodeless superconducting energy gap or the suppression of multiple
superconducting energy bands, revealing a single, robust BCS-type
superconducting energy gap [35].

A few studies attempting to understand the effect of chemical
substitution within the Pt-Ge cage have been conducted. Upon
substitution of Au for Pt in BaPt₄Ge₁₂, the electronic density of states
and superconducting transition temperature T_(c) increase with
increasing Au concentration [36]. The effect of Sb substitution for Ge
has also been studied for several Pt-Ge based skutterudite compounds:
The compound CePt₄Ge₁₂ is close to a boundary between Ce intermediate
valence and Kondo-lattice behavior [27,37]. By substituting Sb for Ge,
CePt₄Ge₁₂ is tuned from a nearly intermediate-valent paramagnet, through
a non-Fermi-liquid phase, and into an antiferromagnetically ordered
phase with localized Ce 4f magnetic moments [38,39]. A rapid suppression
of superconductivity in the system LaPt₄Ge_(12 − x)Sb_(x) with
increasing x is observed, accompanied by a decrease of charge-carrier
density and an increase of the Seebeck effect at room temperature by
about one order of magnitude [40].

Motivated by previous studies, and, in order to further investigate the
unresolved nature of superconductivity in the compound PrPt₄Ge₁₂, we
undertook a systematic study of the PrPt₄Ge_(12 − x)Sb_(x) system. The
evolution of superconducting properties with increasing Sb concentration
was investigated by means of x-ray diffraction, electrical resistivity
in zero and applied magnetic fields, dc and ac magnetic susceptibility,
and specific heat measurements. We observed a suppression of
superconductivity with positive curvature in a plot of T_(c) versus Sb
concentration; above x = 4, there is no evidence for superconductivity
down to 140 mK. Our results from specific heat measurements are similar
to those of previous studies, suggesting a possible crossover from a
nodal to a nodeless superconducting energy gap or from multiple energy
gaps to a single BCS-type superconducting energy gap [32-35]. Evidence
for a "rattling" mode for the Pr ions was observed throughout the
series, but does not seem to have a strong effect on superconductivity.
Conjectures about an observed feature or phase transition of unknown
origin above x = 4 are also discussed.

## II Experimental Details

Polycrystalline specimens of PrPt₄Ge_(12 − x)Sb_(x) were synthesized by
arc-melting on a water-cooled copper hearth under an Ar atmosphere with
a Zr getter. The starting materials were obtained from Pr ingots (Alfa
Aesar 99.9

## III Results

### X-ray diffraction

Figure 1 shows results from XRD data for PrPt₄Ge_(12 − x)Sb_(x)
(0 ≤ x ≤ 5). All of the XRD patterns are well indexed with the cubic
filled-skutterudite crystal structure with space group $Im\bar{3}$. The
conventional residual parameters, $R_{\rm p}$, are in the range from
0.0910 to 0.1595 for x ≤ 5. Figure 1(a) shows a representative XRD
pattern for the PrPt₄Ge_(12 − x)Sb_(x) system (for x = 3.5) and the
resultant fit from the Rietveld refinement. The stars indicate the
presence of Pr and/or PtSb₂ impurity phases, the amount of which
gradually increases with x from ∼0.2 to 1

Figure 1: (a) X-ray diffraction pattern for PrPt₄Ge_(8.5)Sb_(3.5). The
black circles represent the experimental data and the red line
represents the fit from the Rietveld refinement of the data. The purple
vertical marks indicate the position of expected Bragg reflections for
the refined PrPt₄Ge_(8.5)Sb_(3.5) crystal structure and the blue line at
the bottom is the difference between observed and calculated
intensities. The stars indicate Bragg reflections associated with a Pr
or PtSb₂ impurity phase. The inset shows a plot of the lattice parameter
a versus nominal antimony concentration x. The red dashed line is a
guide to the eye. (b) Thermal displacement parameter, $U_{\rm iso}$, of
elements versus Sb concentration. Pr atoms have large values compared
with Pt and Ge/Sb atoms. (c) Occupancies of Pr and Pt crystallographic
positions and the ratio of Sb to Ge+Sb versus Sb concentration x. A
significant decrease of Pr site occupancy is observed for x ≥ 3.5.

with the observation that the lattice parameter a exhibits a plateau for
x ≥ 5 (data not shown). Since the atomic radius of Sb is larger than
that of Ge, it is expected that a increases with increasing Sb
concentrations. As seen in Fig. 1(b), we observed that the thermal
displacement parameters, $U_{\rm iso}$, for Pr atoms are large compared
with values of Pt or Ge/Sb atoms, which is a common feature in
filled-skutterudite systems. Figure 1(c) displays the occupancies of the
Pr and Pt crystallographic positions and the relative ratios of Sb to
Sb+Ge occupancies, suggesting that the Pr sites are not fully occupied
down to ∼0.7 for x ≥ 3.5. A similar result is occasionally observed in
other filled-skutterudite compounds [43, 44]. This result is also
consistent with the increase of Pr-based impurity phases for samples
with x ≥ 3.

### Electrical resistivity

Electrical resistivity, ρ(T), data taken in zero magnetic field are
shown in Fig. 2. All concentrations of Sb display metallic behavior, as
shown in Fig. 2(a). We show only representative concentrations for
visual clarity. The residual resistivity ratio, RRR, versus x is
presented in Fig. 2(b); a semilogarithmic plot of (ρ₉₀₀/ρ₀) versus x,
where ρ₉₀₀ is the room temperature resistivity and ρ₀ is the resistivity
value right above the superconducting transitions, shows a rapid
decrease with increasing x for 0 ≤ x ≤ 1, consistent with increased
disorder produced by the substitution of Sb for Ge in PrPt₄Ge₁₂. A
general trend of increasing residual resistivity ρ₀ is observed with
increasing Sb concentration; however, there is some scatter due to
uncertainties in the measurement of the geometrical factors of the
resistivity samples. Figure 2(c) displays ρ(T) normalized to its value
at 10 K versus x. T_(c) was defined as the temperature where ρ(T)/ρ₁₀
drops to 50

Figure 3(a) shows ρ versus T² for representative concentrations, with
different y scales for visual clarity. The red solid lines represent
least-squares fits to the data with the formula ρ(T) = ρ₀ + AT² in the
temperature range between T_(c)² and 250 K², suggesting Fermi-liquid
behavior in PrPt₄Ge_(12 − x)Sb_(x) for 0 ≤ x ≤ 5[35]. Deviations from
the fits were observed for the x = 4 and 5 samples, which is probably
due to the PtSb₂ impurity phase. We also performed a resistivity
measurement on the samples with x = 6, 7, and 12 (data not shown); these
inhomogeneous samples exhibit the same feature marked by arrows in Figs.
2 and 3 at the same temperature and with the same character. For x = 6
and 7, the amount of the PtSb₂ phase is large; moreover, the x = 12
sample turned out to be the compound PtSb₂, with a very small amount of
PrPt₄Ge₂Sb₅. The coefficient A scatters between 2 and 7 nΩ cm/K²,
increasing to 30 nΩ cm/K² for x ≥ 4. Figure 3(c) shows that values of
the residual resistivity ρ₀ versus x, obtained from the fits, increase
from ∼2 to 216 μΩ cm, although the values of ρ₀ fluctuate strongly with
increasing x due to uncertainties in the measurement of the geometrical
factors of the resistivity samples, as we mentioned previously to
explain the behavior seen in Fig. 2(a).

We also measured the upper critical fields, H_(c2)(T), for selected
samples. In Fig. 4(a), the data points were determined

Figure 3: (a) A plot of ρ versus T² for selected concentrations with
different y scales for visual clarity. Power-law fits of ρ(T)=ρ₀+AT²
were performed up to 250 K², indicated by the red solid lines. The
dashed arrow indicates the deviation from the fit, possibly due to an
impurity phase. (b) Coefficient A versus x. A scatters between 2 and 7
nΩ cm/K² and increases rapidly for x ≥ 4. (c) The residual resistivity,
ρ₀, from the fits versus x is shown. ρ₀ increases rapidly from ∼2 to
∼216 μΩ cm, consistent with disorder introduced by Sb substitution into
PrPt₄Ge₁₂.

Figure 2: (a) Electrical resistivity data ρ versus T for selected
PrPt₄Ge_(12 − x)Sb_(x) samples with Sb concentrations x shown in the
legend. The arrows indicate a weak downturn feature for x = 4 and 5,
possibly due to an impurity phase. (b) A semilogarithmic plot of the
residual resistivity ratio RRR (ρ₉₀₀/ρ₀) versus x for
PrPt₄Ge_(12 − x)Sb_(x). The decrease in RRR with increasing x displays a
positive curvature. (c) ρ(T), normalized to its value at 10 K, versus x
for selected PrPt₄Ge_(12 − x)Sb_(x) samples. Superconducting transition
temperatures T_(c) decrease with increasing x and onsets of
superconductivity are observed for x = 3.5 and 4. The red dashed arrow
is a guide to the eye.

from the temperature where ρ(T) decreases to 50

### Magnetic susceptibility

Magnetization divided by applied magnetic field, M/H, versus T data are
displayed in Fig. 5(a). We performed measurements under applied magnetic
field of H = 0.5 T for the x = 0 sample and 1 T for the rest of the
samples containing Sb. The magnitude of M/H decreases with increasing x;
however, an increase in magnitude and low-temperature upturns were
observed for x ≥ 4, which are expected from the XRD results. The
decrease of the estimated Pr occupancy [see Fig. 1(c)] and presence of
 ∼ 1 atomic percent of Pr and PtSb₂ impurity phases in x = 4 and 5
samples might be the reasons. The inset of Fig. 5(a) shows
superconducting transitions for x = 0 and 0.5 under an applied magnetic
field H = 10 Oe. T_(c) was defined by the point where zero-field-cooled
(ZFC) and field-cooled (FC) data deviated from one another. The
superconducting volume fractions were estimated from the ZFC χ(T) data
by using the relation 4π χ × d, where d is the molar density of the
samples in units of mol/cm³. The superconducting samples with x = 0,
0.5, 1, 1.5, and 2 have volume fractions slightly greater than 1, which
results from exclusion of demagnetization factor corrections in this
analysis; nevertheless, these results offer strong support for bulk
superconductivity in the system PrPt₄Ge_(12 − x)Sb_(x).

We fit the M/H versus T data in Fig. 5(a) to a Curie-Weiss law in the
temperature range from 75 to 300 K,

M/H = C₀/(T − Θ_(CW)),
(1)

where C₀ is the Curie constant and Θ_(CW) is the Curie-Weiss
temperature. The average effective magnetic moment, μ_(eff), of the Pr
ion is extracted from the relation C₀ = μ_(eff)²N_(A)/3k_(B), where
N_(A) is Avogadro’s number and k_(B) is Boltzmann’s constant. The best
fit values are shown in Fig. 6. Values of μ_(eff) scatter around
3.58μ_(B), the value for Pr³⁺ free ions, calculated using Hund’s rules.
The Curie-Weiss temperatures, Θ_(CW), are nearly independent of x with a
value of  ∼ −10 K. Real and imaginary components of the alternating
current magnetic susceptibility, χ^(′) and χ^(′′), respectively, for the
samples with x = 1, 1.5, and 2 are shown in Fig. 5(b). Clear signatures
of superconductivity were observed and T_(c) was defined as the
temperatures where χ^(′′) drops sharply.

Isothermal magnetization measurements were also performed at 2 K under
applied magnetic fields up to 7 T (data not shown). We observed a rapid
suppression of superconductivity below 1 T and above that, paramagnetism
was observed; however, slight curvatures in the isothermal magnetization
for the samples with x = 4 and 5 were seen, possibly due to small
concentrations of paramagnetic impurities, as we discussed in previous
sections. In order to roughly estimate the concentrations of
paramagnetic impurities, Gd was used

Figure 4: (a) Temperature dependence of the upper critical field H_(c2)
for selected samples. The horizontal bars are the transition widths,
determined as described in the text. Solid lines are fits of the WHH
theory to the data. (b) Magnetic field H-x phase diagram of
PrPt₄Ge_(12 − x)Sb_(x) at T = 0 K. The solid line, which is a guide to
the eye, represents the rapid suppression of the 0 K value of the upper
critical field, H_(c2)(0), with increasing x. The values of H_(c2)(0)
were determined from the WHH fits in panel (a).

Figure 5: (a) Magnetization divided by applied magnetic field, M/H,
versus temperature T for PrPt₄Ge_(12 − x)Sb_(x) with selected
concentrations, measured in applied magnetic fields of H = 0.5 T for the
sample with x = 0 and H = 1 T for the samples with x > 0. Solid arrows
indicate upturns due to small amounts of paramagnetic impurities, as
discussed in the text. The inset highlights the Meissner effect and
diamagnetic shielding plotting 4π χ versus T for the x = 0 and 0.5
samples. (b) Alternating current magnetic susceptibility χ^(′) and
χ^(′′) versus temperature T for x = 1, 1.5, and 2. (a), (b)
Superconducting volume fractions are close to 1. The deviations from
unity are presumably due to not accounting for the demagnetization
factor.

as a standard impurity and assumed to be located at the Pr sites. This
choice was arbitrary; it could be other lanthanide ions on the Pr site
or 3d transition metal ions such as Fe on the Pt site. The impurity
concentration (N/V) was determined in two ways: Curie law fits to the
upturns at low temperatures and the procedure described in Ref. [47],
using isothermal magnetization data. For the Curie law fits, we used the
relation N/V = 3C₀k_(B)/(N_(A)μ_(eff)²), where μ_(eff)² is the effective
magnetic moment of Gd ions (7.94μ_(B)). Both methods yielded estimates
of the impurity concentration of about 1

### Specific heat

Specific heat, C, versus T data are shown in Fig. 7(a). The feature in
C/T associated with superconductivity was only observed in the x = 0 and
0.5 samples (the T_(c) values for x ≥ 1 are at temperatures below the
low-temperature limit of the PPMS DynaCool). Superconducting transition
temperatures T_(c) were determined with the aid of an idealized
entropy-conserving construction (not shown). The resultant T_(c) values
are consistent with the values obtained from the ρ(T) and χ(T)
measurements.

In order to analyze the behavior of the electronic and phonon
contributions to C, we first attempted to employ linear fits of C/T
versus T² to the data, which is a commonly used method [35]. However,
this method is inappropriate for PrPt₄Ge_(12 − x)Sb_(x); the electronic
specific heat coefficient, γ^(′), becomes negative for x ≥ 4, possibly
due to low-temperature upturns in the C/T versus T² plots (data not
shown). The Debye temperature, Θ_(D)^(′), extracted from the coefficient
β using the equation C(T)/T = γ^(′) + βT² increases from ∼192 K to ∼271
K over the entire concentration range (data not shown). Possible
explanations will be addressed below in the discussion section.

Since we have evidence that the specific heat data need to be analyzed
using an alternative method, we considered contributions due to rattling
motion of Pr ions or a Pr nuclear Schottky. We reasoned that a nuclear
Schottky contribution is not reasonable since it could not fully account
for the continuous increase of the Debye temperature, Θ_(D)^(′), for all
x. We found that introducing an Einstein contribution is more
appropriate for the analysis in this study. For example, the Einstein
model accurately describes the temperature dependence of the specific
heat of filled Tl_(0.22)Co₄Sb₁₂ and unfilled Co₄Sb₁₂ skutterudite
compounds [48]. Also, the broad kink observed in the C/T versus T² data
for NdOs₄Sb₁₂ was explained by using a combination of Debye and Einstein
models [49], so there exists some precedent for including an Einstein
model in analysis of specific heat data. If Pr ions behave as Einstein
oscillators, the relationship between the thermal displacement
parameter, U_(iso), and the Einstein temperature, Θ_(E), is given by the
expression

$$U_{\text{iso}}=\frac{\hbar^{2}}{2m_{\text{Pr}}k_{\text{B}}\Theta_{\text{E}}} \coth\left(\frac{\Theta_{\text{E}}}{2T}\right),$$
(2)

where m_(Pr) is the mass of the Pr ion and k_(B) is the Boltzmann
constant. For all x, estimated values of Θ_(E) are ∼60 K, as shown in
Fig. 7(b). Since there is support for the possibility that Pr ions are
behaving like Einstein oscillators, the specific

Figure 7: (a) Specific heat C versus temperature T for
PrPt₄Ge_(12 − x)Sb_(x). Arrows indicate superconducting transitions for
the x = 0 and 0.5 samples. (b) Einstein temperature, Θ_(E), versus x.
Solid data points are from fits of the specific heat data that include
the Einstein model. Open circles are extracted from the relation between
Θ_(E) and thermal displacement parameter, U_(iso), from Rietveld
refinement of the XRD data (see text). Θ_(E) scatters around ∼60 K; the
dashed line is a guide to the eye. (c) Debye temperature, Θ_(D), versus
x. Θ_(D) increases slightly with increasing x. (d) The Sommerfeld
coefficient, γ, obtained from fits using the Einstein model, versus x.
The electronic specific heat coefficient γ decreases as x increases
until x = 3, and is enhanced as x increases up to x = 5. The value of γ
for PrPt₄Ge₁₂ in this work has a large error bar since we included the
Einstein model; thus, the values obtained using other methods are also
presented for reference [26,35].

heat can be expressed as
$C=\gamma\,T+C_{\rm Ein}(T)+C_{\rm Deb}(T)$[49], where

$$C_{\rm Ein}(T)=r\,3R\frac{(\Theta_{\rm E}/T)^{2}e^{i(\Theta_{\rm E}/T)}}{(e^{i( \Theta_{\rm E}/T)}-1)^{2}},$$
(3)

$$C_{\rm Deb}(T)=(17-r)\frac{12\pi^{4}}{5}R\left(\frac{T}{\Theta_{\rm D}}\right)^ {3},$$
(4)

r is the mixing ratio of Pr ions, and R is the universal gas constant.
We assumed that only Pr ions are behaving like Einstein oscillators in
this analysis; thus, the mixing ratio is constrained to be r ≤ 1. The
least-squares fits of $\gamma\,T+C_{\rm Ein}(T)+C_{\rm Deb}(T)$ to the
C(T) data were performed in the temperature range between 1.8 and 30 K
and corresponding best-fit values for γ, $\Theta_{\rm E}$, and
$\Theta_{\rm D}$ were extracted. As shown in Fig. 7(b), $\Theta_{\rm E}$
scatters in the range of ∼60 to 65 K, indicating a consistent result
with the values from the XRD analysis using Eq. (2). The
$\Theta_{\rm D}$ versus x plot in Fig. 7(c) exhibits a relatively modest
increase of $\Theta_{\rm D}$ with x compared to the analysis of
C(T)/T = γ^(′) + β T² fits to the specific data. The electronic specific
heat coefficient γ, presented in Fig. 7(d), first decreases from ∼107 at
x = 0 to ∼1 mJ/mol K² at x = 3, and then increases to ∼180 mJ/mol K² for
x ≥ 4. Both $\Theta_{\rm D}$ and γ values for x = 0 are larger than
previously reported values, γ^(′), of 48 and 87 mJ/mol K², respectively
[26; 35]; however, this is expected due to the different methods used to
extract the $\Theta_{\rm D}$ and γ values.

The electronic contribution to the specific heat, $C_{\rm e}(T)$, was
extracted by subtracting the phonon contribution,
$C_{\rm ph}(T)=C_{\rm Ein}(T)+C_{\rm Deb}(T)$, from the C(T) data.
Figure 8 displays semilogarithmic plots of C_(e)/γ T_(c) versus T_(c)/T
for PrPt₄Ge₁₂ and PrPt₄Ge_(11.5)Sb_(0.5). The fits to the data were
performed in the range 1≤ T_(c)/T ≤ 2.5. The red line in Fig. 8(a)
demonstrates that PrPt₄Ge₁₂ is well described by b(T_(c)/T)^(n), where
n ∼ −2.5, suggesting multiband superconductivity or nodes in the gap
function in this compound [28]. The fit values for b and n are slightly
different from the previous report [35], because different phonon
contributions to the specific heat were subtracted. Figure 8(b) shows
that the sample with x = 0.5 can be fitted by an exponential temperature
dependence, ae^(−Δ/T_(c)), where a is a fitting parameter and Δ is the
superconducting energy gap. The coefficient a is around 5.3 and
Δ / T_(c) is ∼1.3, which is somewhat smaller than the value of 1.76 from
the BCS prediction of weak-coupled superconductivity. This change from
power-law to exponential temperature dependence is similar to behaviors
observed in previous reports for the Pr(Os_(1 − x)Ru_(x))₄Sb₁₂ and
Pr_(1 − x)Ce_(x)Pt₄Ge₁₂ systems [35; 50] and could be explained by a
crossover in the structure of the superconducting energy gap from one
containing point nodes to one that is nodeless, or a suppression of one
or more superconducting energy gaps in a multiband superconductor [28;
33; 34; 51].

## IV Discussion

Figure 9 summarizes results from ρ(T), χ(T), χ^(′′)(T), and C(T)
measurements in a phase diagram of superconducting transition
temperature T_(c) versus nominal antimony concentration x. The T_(c)
values were taken from the onset of diamagnetic signals for the
χ^(′′)(T) and χ(T) measurements. For the C(T) measurements, T_(c) was
determined from the results of idealized entropy-conserving
constructions [52; 53] (data not shown). This suppression of T_(c) with
x is also consistent with the decrease of the upper critical field as
shown in Fig. 4(b).

In order to understand the suppression of superconductivity, we need to
consider the effects of Sb substitution in this

Figure 8: (a) and (b): Semilogarithmic plots of the electronic
contribution to specific heat, C_(e)/γ T_(c), in the superconducting
state versus T_(c)/T for PrPtGe₁₂ and PrPt₄Ge_(11.5)Sb_(0.5),
respectively. The red lines represent the best fits to the data with
2.25(T_(c)/T)^(−2.54) and ae^(−Δ/T_(c)), where a = 5.3 and Δ/T_(c) = 1.3
for PrPtGe₁₂ and PrPtGe_(11.5)Sb_(0.5), respectively.

Figure 9: Phase diagram of the superconducting transition temperature
T_(c) as a function of Sb concentration x based on electrical
resistivity, ac and dc magnetic susceptibility, and specific heat
measurements. The vertical bars for in the T_(c) data represent the
widths of the superconducting transitions and were derived from the ρ(T)
measurements as described in the text. T_(c) is rapidly suppressed with
x up to x ≃ 4, and only the onset of superconductivity is observed for
x ≥ 3.5 in measurements performed down to 140 mK. The gradient-filled
area of the SC region under the T_(c) versus x curve indicates the
change of the superconducting energy gap. The red dashed line shows the
suppression of superconductivity observed in LaPt₄Ge_(12 − x)Sb_(x)[40].

system, including the increase of disorder, the increase in unit-cell
volume, and the increase in electron concentration (electron doping). It
has been reported that in Pt-Ge based skutterudite compounds, a large
density of states (DOS) at the Fermi level is a common feature, and it
is believed to facilitate superconductivity [24, 26]. Moreover, soft
x-ray valence-band photoemission spectroscopy on PrPt₄Ge₁₂ and LaPt₄Ge₁₂
displays almost identical spectra, indicating that the electronic
structures for both systems are very similar with one another [54]. Both
have a similar T_(c) near 8 K and exhibit evidence for multiband
superconductivity; however, PrPt₄Ge₁₂ shows time-reversal-symmetry
breaking of the superconducting state [31]. Therefore, a comparison of
the suppression of superconductivity and the effect of Sb substitution
on these two different systems, LaPt₄Ge₁₂ and PrPt₄Ge₁₂, may provide new
insights. Our careful comparison reveals that there are several
similarities and one significant difference [40]. The increase in
disorder results in a rapid decrease of RRR (see Fig. 2), indicating a
correlation between disorder and the suppression of superconductivity
for low x concentrations, consistent with the result in
LaPt₄Ge_(12 − x)Sb_(x). The unit-cell volume of superconducting Pt-Ge
based skutterudites seems to be uncorrelated or very weakly correlated
to their superconducting states, because the changes of T_(c) upon
applied pressure are small or nonmonotonic; T_(c) is probably more
dependent on the electronic structure [55, 56]. Humer _et al._ discussed
the decrease of the DOS and γ values with Sb substitution, and its role
in facilitating a rapid suppression of superconductivity [40]; a very
similar decrease of γ values for samples in the range 0 ≤ x ≤ 3 is
observed in this study.

The response of superconductivity to Sb substitution observed in this
study contrasts with what was reported for LaPt₄Ge_(12 − x)Sb_(x). Even
though there were no samples with Sb concentrations between x = 0.5 and
3 in the LaPt₄Ge_(12 − x)Sb_(x) study, no evidence of superconductivity
was observed at x = 3 down to 0.4 K; moreover, a first-principles
calculation predicts that the system moves toward a metal-to-insulator
transition with higher Sb concentration. With these facts in mind, we
conjecture that the suppression of superconductivity in
LaPt₄Ge_(12 − x)Sb_(x) with x could be faster than and/or different from
that of PrPt₄Ge_(12 − x)Sb_(x), as indicated by the red dashed line in
Fig. 9. Similarly, a different suppression rate of T_(c) is observed
upon substitution of Ce ions into the La and Pr sites [57]. The observed
differences in the suppression of T_(c), therefore, could be explained
by differing pairing mechanisms in these two systems; PrPt₄Ge₁₂ exhibits
an unconventional type of superconductivity, while LaPt₄Ge₁₂ is a
conventional BCS-type superconductor. However, there is evidence that
PrPt₄Ge₁₂ has multiple isotropic BCS-type energy gaps, which cannot be
ruled out from this study [32, 33, 34]. Also, the expected behavior
associated with point nodes in specific heat measurements on
polycrystalline samples is not supported by the results from a
single-crystal study: Polycrystalline specimens show a T³ temperature
dependence of the electronic specific heat, which has been attributed to
a possible nuclear Schottky anomaly arising from Pr-containing surface
contamination [34].

A rattling mode of the rare-earth ion has been observed in several
filled-skutterudite compounds [58, 59], especially in the ROS₄Sb₁₂ (R=
rare earth) family [60, 61, 62]. On the other hand, the Pt-Ge based
skutterudites exhibit no strong evidence for off-center displacements of
filler ions; thus, the DOS, composed of Ge-p and Pt-5d states, has more
significant effects on various phenomena [30]. However, the introduction
of Gd ions into the La site in LaPt₄Ge₁₂ provides an extra phonon mode
with $\Theta_{\rm E}\sim 24$ K [63]. In this work, a weak "rattling"
mode with a value of $\Theta_{\rm E}\sim 60$ K was estimated. In analogy
with the behavior of Gd ions, the introduction of Sb ions into the Pt-Ge
cage might produce additional phonon modes. The value of
$\Theta_{\rm E}$ stays roughly constant throughout the entire range of
x, suggesting that the rattling motion is independent of x; rattling in
the PrPt₄Ge_(12 − x)Sb_(x) systems does not seem to have significant
effects on either the superconducting state or the localized Pr⁺³
electronic configuration, consistent with the x-independent behavior of
$\mu_{\rm eff}/\mu_{\rm B}$ as seen in Fig. 6(a).

We are currently unable to definitively address the relationships among
the Pr site occupancy, rattling dynamics, and the observed enhancement
of electronic correlations for x ≥ 4 samples. It has been reported that
the partial filling of the Pr sites does not have a significant effect
on the superconducting properties of PrPt₄Ge₁₂[64]. A Pr Schottky
anomaly could make it difficult to properly analyze the specific heat
data [34], possibly leading to an artificial enhancement of γ. The
presence of small concentrations of impurities could also potentially be
responsible for an anomalous enhancement of the specific heat at low
temperature for higher x [see Fig. 7(a)]. All of these factors
complicate our ability to clearly determine the phenomena or phase that
occurs in the gradient-filled region for x ≥ 4 in Fig. 9. In order to
have a better understanding of not only the features in the properties
of samples with high Sb concentrations, but also the nature of
superconductivity in PrPt₄Ge₁₂, future research such as neutron
scattering, ultrasonic, or NMR-NQR measurements on high-quality
single-crystalline specimens will be necessary.

## V Concluding remarks

We have studied the superconducting and normal-state properties of
PrPt₄Ge₁₂-based pseudoternary compounds in which Sb has been substituted
for Ge. Polycrystalline samples of PrPt₄Ge_(12 − x)Sb_(x) with Sb
concentrations up to x = 5 were investigated via x-ray diffraction,
electrical resistivity, magnetic susceptibility, and specific heat
measurements. We observed a suppression of superconductivity with
increasing Sb substitution up to x = 4, above which no signature of
superconductivity was observed down to 140 mK. The electronic
coefficient of specific heat γ decreases with increasing Sb
concentration in the superconducting region, indicating that the density
of states might be an important parameter that facilitates
superconductivity. The specific heat data for x = 0.5 exhibit an
exponential temperature dependence in the superconducting state,
suggesting a nodeless superconducting energy gap. A constant "rattling"
mode of Pr ions with a value of $\Theta_{\rm E}\sim 60$ K across the
entire substitution range was suggested by Rietveld refinements of XRD
data and fits of the Einstein model to specific heat data; however, it
does not seem to be correlated with superconductivity in this system.

## Acknowledgments

This work was supported by the US Department of Energy, Office of Basic
Energy Sciences, Division of Materials Sciences and Engineering, under
Grant No. DE-FG02-04-ER46105 (characterization and physical properties
measurements), and the National Science Foundation under Grant No. DMR
1206553 (low-temperature measurements). Helpful discussions with S. Ran
are gratefully acknowledged.

## References

* [1] W. Jeitschko and D. Braun, LaFe₄P₁₂ with filled CoAs₃-type
structure and isotypic lanthanoid-transition metal polyphosphides, Acta
Crystallogr. B **33**, 3401 (1977). * [2] I. Shirotani, T. Uchiumi, K.
Ohno, C. Sekine, Y. Nakazawa, K. Kanoda, S. Todo, and T. Yagi,
Superconductivity of filled skutterudites LaRu₄As₁₂ and PrRu₄As₁₂, Phys.
Rev. B **56**, 7866 (1997). * [3] B. C. Sales, Filled skutterudites, in
_Handbook on the Physics and Chemistry of the Rare Earths_, edited by K.
A. Gschneidner Jr., J.-C. Bunzli, and V. K. Pecharsky (Elsevier Science,
Amsterdam, 2003), vol. 33, Chap. 211. * [4] E. D. Bauer, N. A.
Frederick, P.-C. Ho, V. S. Zapf, and M. B. Maple, Superconductivity and
heavy fermion behavior in PrOs₄Sb₁₂, Phys. Rev. B **65**, 100506
(2002). * [5] E. D. Bauer, A. Slebarski, E. J. Freeman, N. A. Frederick,
B. J. Taylor, C. Sirvent, and M. B. Maple, Strongly correlated electron
behavior in ROs₄Sb₁₂(R = Ce, Pr) filled skutterudites, Physica B
**312-313**, 230 (2002). * [6] M. B. Maple, P.-C. Ho, V. S. Zapf, N. A.
Frederick, E. D. Bauer, W. M. Yuhasz, F. M. Woodward, and J. W. Lynn,
Heavy fermion superconductivity in the filled skutterudite compound
PrOs₄ Sb₁₂, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **71**, 23 (2002). * [7] D. E.
MacLaughlin, J. E. Sonier, R. H. Heffner, O. O. Bernal, B.-L. Young, M.
S. Rose, G. D. Morris, E. D. Bauer, T. D. Do, and M. B. Maple, Muon Spin
Relaxation and Isotropic Pairing in Superconducting PrOs₄Sb₁₂, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **89**, 157001 (2002). * [8] Y. Aoki, A. Tsuchiya, T.
Kanayama, S. R. Saha, H. Sugawara, H. Sato, W. Higemoto, A. Koda, K.
Ohishi, K. Nishiyama, and R. Kadono, Time-Reversal Symmetry-Breaking
Superconductivity in Heavy-Fermion PrOs₄Sb₁₂ Detected by Muon-Spin
Relaxation, Phys. Rev. Lett. **91**, 067003 (2003). * [9] R. Vollmer, A.
Faikt, C. Pfleiderer, H. v. Lohneysen, E. D. Bauer, P.-C. Ho, V. Zapf,
and M. B. Maple, Low-Temperature Specific Heat of the Heavy-Fermion
Superconductor PrOs₄Sb₁₂, Phys. Rev. Lett. **90**, 057001 (2003). * [10]
H. Suderow, S. Vieira, J. D. Strand, S. Bud’ko, and P. C. Canfield,
Very-low-temperature tunneling spectroscopy in the heavy-fermion
superconductor PrOs₄Sb₁₂, Phys. Rev. B **69**, 060504 (2004). * [11] M.
B. Maple, N. A. Frederick, P.-C. Ho, W. M. Yuhasz, T. A. Sayles, N. P.
Butch, J. R. Jeffries, and B. J. Taylor, Novel strongly correlated
electron states in filled skutterudite lanthanide osmium antimonides,
Physica B **359-361**, 830 (2005). * [12] W. M. Yuhasz, N. P. Butch, T.
A. Sayles, P.-C. Ho, J. R. Jeffries, T. Yanagisawa, N. A. Frederick, M.
B. Maple, Z. Henkie, A. Pietraszko, S. K. McCall, M. W. McElfresh, and
M. J. Fluss, Multiple ordered phases in the filled skutterudite compound
PrOs₄As₁₂, Phys. Rev. B **73**, 144409 (2006). * [13] M. B. Maple, Z.
Henkie, W. M. Yuhasz, P.-C. Ho, T. Yanagisawa, T. A. Sayles, N. P.
Butch, J. R. Jeffries, and A. Pietraszko, Strongly correlated electron
phenomena in Pr-based filled skutterudite compounds, J. Magn. Magn.
Mater. **310**, 182 (2007). * [14] M. B. Maple, Z. Henkie, R. E.
Baumbach, T. A. Sayles, N. P. Butch, P.-C. Ho, T. Yanagisawa, W. M.
Yuhasz, R. Wawryk, T. Cichorek, and A. Pietraszko, Correlated electron
phenomena in Ce- and Pr-based filled skutterudite arsenides and
antimonides, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **77**, 7 (2008). * [15] H. Sato, Y.
Aoki, D. Kikuchi, H. Sugawara, W. Higemoto, K. Ohishi, T. U. Ito, R.
Heffner, S. R. Saha, A. Koda, K. H. Satoh, K. Nishiyama, R. Kadono, N.
Nishida, L. Shu, and D. E. MacLaughlin, Novel features in filled
skutterudites containing rare-earth elements with a plural number of
4f-electrons, Physica B **404**, 749 (2009). * [16] L. Shu, D. E.
MacLaughlin, W. P. Beyermann, R. H. Heffner, G. D. Morris, O. O. Bernal,
F. D. Callaghan, J. E. Sonier, W. M. Yuhasz, N. A. Frederick, and M. B.
Maple, Penetration depth, multiband superconductivity, and absence of
muon-induced perturbation in superconducting PrOs₄Sb₁₂, Phys. Rev. B
**79**, 174511 (2009). * [17] H. Sato, H. Sugawara, T. Namiki, S. R.
Saha, S. Osaki, T. D. Matsuda, Y. Aoki, Y. Inada, H. Shishido, R.
Settai, and Y. Onuki, Exotic behaviours in the Pr-based filled
skutterudites, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter **15**, 20263 (2003). * [18] N.
P. Butch, W. M. Yuhasz, P.-C. Ho, J. R. Jeffries, N. A. Frederick, T. A.
Sayles, X. G. Zheng, M. B. Maple, J. B. Betts, A. H. Lacerda, F. M.
Woodward, J. W. Lynn, P. Rogl, and G. Giester, Ordered magnetic state in
PrFe₄Sb₁₂ single crystals, Phys. Rev. B **71**, 214417 (2005). * [19] Y.
Aoki, T. Namiki, T. D. Matsuda, K. Abe, H. Sugawara, and H. Sato,
Anomalous heavy-fermion and ordered states in the filled skutterudite
PrFe₄P₁₂, Phys. Rev. B **65**, 064446 (2002). * [20] G. Seyfarth, J. P.
Brison, M. A. Measson, D. Braithwaite, G. Lapertot, and J. Flouquet,
Superconducting PrOs₄Sb₁₂: A Thermal Conductivity Study, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **97**, 236403 (2006). * [21] R. W. Hill, S. Li, M. B. Maple, and
L. Taillefer, Multiband Order Parameters for the PrOs₄Sb₁₂ and PrRu₄Sb₁₂
Skutterudite Superconductors from Thermal Conductivity Measurements,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **101**, 237005 (2008). * [22] K. Izawa, Y. Nakajima,
J. Goryo, Y. Matsuda, S. Osaki, H. Sugawara, H. Sato, P. Thalmeier, and
K. Maki, Multiple Superconducting Phases in New Heavy Fermion
Superconductor PrOs₄Sb₁₂, Phys. Rev. Lett. **90**, 117001 (2003). * [23]
E. E. M. Chia, M. B. Salamon, H. Sugawara, and H. Sato, Probing the
Superconducting Gap Symmetry of PrOs₄Sb₁₂: A Penetration Depth Study,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **91**, 247003 (2003). * [24] E. Bauer, A. Grytsiv,
X.-Q. Chen, N. Melnychenko-Koblyuk, G. Hilscher, H. Kaldarar, H. Michor,
E. Royanian, G. Giester, M. Rotter, R. Podloucky, and P. Rogl,
Superconductivity in Novel Ge-based Skutterudites: Sr,BaPt₄Ge₁₂, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **99**, 217001 (2007). * [25] E. Bauer, X.-Q. Chen, P. Rogl,
G. Hilscher, H. Michor, E. Royanian, R. Podloucky, G. Giester, O.
Sologub, and A. P. Goncalves, Superconductivity and spin fluctuations in
(Th,U)Pt₄Ge₁₂ skutterudites, Phys. Rev. B **78**, 064516 (2008). * [26]
R. Gumeniuk, W. Schnelle, H. Rosner, M. Nicklas, A. Leithe-Jasper, and
Y. Grin, Superconductivity in the Platinum Germanides MPt₄Ge₁₂ (M =
Rare-Earth or Alkaline-Earth Metal) with Filled Skutterudite Structure,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **100**, 017002 (2008). * [27] M. Toda, H. Sugawara, K.
Magishi, T. Saito, K. Koyama, Y. Aoki, and H. Sato, Electrical, magnetic
and NMR studies of Ge-based filled skutterudites RPt₄Ge₁₂ (R = La, Ce,
Pr, Nd), J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **77**, 124702 (2008). * [28] A. Maisuradze,
M. Nicklas, R. Gumeniuk, C. Baines, W. Schnelle, H. Rosner, A.
Leithe-Jasper, Y. Grin, and R. Khasanov, Superfluid Density and Energy
Gap Function of Superconducting PrPt₄Ge₁₂, Phys. Rev. Lett. **103**,
147002 (2009). * [29] F. Kanetake, H. Mukuda, Y. Kitaoka, H. Sugawara,
K. Magishi, K. M. Itoh, and E. E. Haller, Superconducting state of
filled-skutterudite RP₄Ge₁₂ (R = La, Pr): ⁷³Ge-NQR studies, Physica C
**470**, S703 (2010). * [30] R. Gumeniuk, H. Borrmann, A. Ormeci, H.
Rosner, W. Schnelle, M. Nicklas, Y. Grin, and A. Leithe-Jasper, Filled
platinum germanium skutterudites MP₄Ge₁₂ (M = Sr, Ba, La, Nd, Sm, Eu):
Crystal structure and chemical bonding, Z. Kristallogr. **225**, 531
(2010). * [31] A. Maisuradze, W. Schnelle, R. Khasanov, R. Gumeniuk, M.
Nicklas, H. Rosner, A. Leithe-Jasper, Y. Grin, A. Amato, and P.
Thalmeier, Evidence for time-reversal symmetry breaking in
superconducting PrPt₄Ge₁₂, Phys. Rev. B **82**, 024524 (2010). * [32] L.
S. S. Chandra, M. K. Chattopadhyay, and S. B. Roy, Evidence for two
superconducting gaps in the unconventional superconductor PrPt₄Ge₁₂,
Philos. Mag. **92**, 3866 (2012). * [33] Y. Nakamura, H. Okazaki, R.
Yoshida, T. Wakita, H. Takeya, K. Hirata, M. Hirai, Y. Muraoka, and T.
Yokoya, Comparative photoemission studies on the superconducting gap of
the filled skutterudite superconductors LaPt₄Ge₁₂ and PrPt₄Ge₁₂, Phys.
Rev. B **86**, 014521 (2012). * [34] J. L. Zhang, Y. Chen, L. Jiao, R.
Gumeniuk, M. Nicklas, Y. H. Chen, L. Yang, B. H. Fu, W. Schnelle, H.
Rosner, A. Leithe-Jasper, Y. Grin, F. Steglich, and H. Q. Yuan,
Multiband superconductivity in PrPt₄Ge₁₂ single crystals, Phys. Rev. B
**87**, 064502 (2013). * [35] K. Huang, L. Shu, I. K. Lum, B. D. White,
M. Janoschek, D. Yazici, J. J. Hamlin, D. A. Zocco, P.-C. Ho, R. E.
Baumbach, and M. B. Maple, Probing the superconductivity of PrPt₄Ge₁₂
through Ce substitution, Phys. Rev. B **89**, 035145 (2014). * [36] R.
Gumeniuk, H. Rosner, W. Schnelle, M. Nicklas, A. Leithe-Jasper, and Y.
Grin, Optimization of the superconducting transition temperature of the
filled skutterudite BaPt₄Ge₁₂ by gold substitution, Phys. Rev. B **78**,
052504 (2008). * [37] R. Gumeniuk, K. O. Kvashnina, W. Schnelle, M.
Nicklas, H. Borrmann, H. Rosner, Y. Skourski, A. A. Tsirlin, A.
Leithe-Jasper, and Y. Grin, Physical properties and valence state of
cerium in the filled skutterudite CePt₄Ge₁₂, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter
**23**, 465601 (2011). * [38] M. Nicklas, S. Kirchner, R. Borth, R.
Gumeniuk, W. Schnelle, H. Rosner, H. Borrmann, A. Leithe-Jasper, Y.
Grin, and F. Steglich, Charge-Doping-Driven Evolution of Magnetism and
Non-Fermi-Liquid Behavior in the Filled Skutterudite
CePt₄Ge_(12 − x)Sb_(x), Phys. Rev. Lett. **109**, 236405 (2012). * [39]
B. D. White, K. Huang, and M. B. Maple, Probing strong Kondo disorder
with measurements of thermoelectric power, Phys. Rev. B **90**, 235104
(2014). * [40] S. Humer, E. Royanian, H. Michor, E. Bauer, A. Grytsiv,
M. X. Chen, R. Podloucky, and P. Rogl, From superconductivity towards
thermoelectricity: Ge-based skutterudites, in _New Materials for
Thermoelectric Applications: Theory and Experiment_, NATO Science for
Peace and Security Series B: Physics and Biophysics, edited by V. Zlatic
and A. Hewson (Springer, Netherlands, 2013), pp. 115-127. * [41] A. C.
Larson and R. B. V. Dreele, General structure analysis system (GSAS),
Los Alamos National Laboratory Report, 1994 (unpublished). * [42] B.
Toby, EXPGUL, a graphical user interface for GSAS, J. Appl. Crystallogr.
**34**, 210 (2001). * [43] E. Bauer, S. Berger, C. Paul, M. D. Mea, G.
Hilscher, H. Michor, M. Reissner, W. Steiner, A. Grytsiv, P. Rogl, and
E. W. Scheidt, Crystal field effects and thermoelectric properties of
PrFe₄Sb₁₂ skutterudite, Phys. Rev. B **66**, 214421 (2002). * [44] E. D.
Bauer, A. Slebarski, N. A. Frederick, W. M. Yuhasz, M. B. Maple, D. Cao,
F. Bridges, G. Giester, and P. Rogl, Investigation of ferromagnetic
filled skutterudite compounds Eu₇₄ Sb₁₂ (T = Fe, Ru, Os), J. Phys.:
Condens. Matter **16**, 5095 (2004). * [45] N. R. Werthamer, E. Helfand,
and P. C. Hohenberg, Temperature and purity dependence of the
superconducting critical field, H_(c2). III. Electron spin and
spin-orbit effects, Phys. Rev. **147**, 295 (1966). * [46] P.-C. Ho, T.
Yanagisawa, N. P. Butch, W. M. Yuhasz, C. C. Robinson, A. A. Dooraghi,
and M. B. Maple, A comparison of the normal and superconducting state
properties of Pr(Os_(1 − x)Ru_(x))₄Sb₁₂ and Pr_(1 − x)Nd_(x)Os₄Sb₁₂,
Physica B **403**, 1038 (2008). * [47] H. G. Lukefahr, O. O. Bernal, D.
E. MacLaughlin, C. L. Seaman, M. B. Maple, and B. Andraka, Estimation of
the intrinsic magnetic susceptibility of Y_(1 − x)U_(x)Pd₃ and
UCu_(8 − x)Pd_(x), Phys. Rev. B **52**, 3038 (1995). * [48] B. C. Sales,
B. C. Chakoumakos, D. Mandrus, J. W. Sharp, N. R. Dilley, and M. B.
Maple, Atomic displacement parameters: A useful tool in the search for
new thermoelectric materials?, Mater. Res. Soc. Symp. Proc. **545**, 13
(1998). * [49] P.-C. Ho, W. M. Yuhasz, N. P. Butch, N. A. Frederick, T.
A. Sayles, J. R. Jeffries, M. B. Maple, J. B. Betts, A. H. Lacerda, P.
Rogl, and G. Giester, Ferromagnetism and possible heavy-fermion behavior
in single crystals of NdOs₄Sb₁₂, Phys. Rev. B **72**, 094410 (2005). *
[50] N. A. Frederick, T. A. Sayles, S. K. Kim, and M. B. Maple,
Investigation of the double superconducting transition and
low-temperature specific heat of Pr(Os_(1 − x)Ru_(x))₄Sb₁₂, J. Low Temp.
Phys. **147**, 321 (2007). * [51] M. Sigrist and K. Ueda,
Phenomenological theory of unconventional superconductivity, Rev. Mod.
Phys. **63**, 239 (1991). * [52] E. Bonjour, R. Calemczuk, J. Y. Henry,
and A. F. Khoder, Anisotropic specific-heat behavior under a magnetic
field of a YBa₂Cu₃O₇ single crystal, Phys. Rev. B **43**, 106 (1991). *
[53] S. B. Ota, V. S. Sastry, E. Gmelin, P. Murugaraj, and J. Maier,
Anisotropic magnetic-field dependence of the specific heat in
single-crystal-like YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − x), Phys. Rev. B **43**, 6147
(1991). * [54] Y. Nakamura, H. Okazaki, R. Yoshida, T. Wakita, M. Hirai,
Y. Muraoka, H. Takeya, K. Hirata, H. Kumigashira, M. Oshima, and T.
Yokoya, Electronic structure of the novel filled skutterudite PrPt₄Ge₁₂
superconductor, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **79**, 124701 (2010). * [55] R. T.
Khan, E. Bauer, X.-Q. Chen, R. Podloucky, and P. Rogl, Pressure response
of novel superconducting Sr,BaPt₄Ge₁₂, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **77**, 350
(2008). * [56] N. Foroorzani, J. J. Hamlin, J. S. Schilling, R. E.
Baumbach, I. K. Lum, L. Shu, K. Huang, and M. B. Maple, Dependence of
the superconducting transition temperature of the filled skutterudite
compound PrPt₄Ge₁₂ on hydrostatic pressure, Physica C **485**, 160
(2013). * [57] K. Huang, D. Yazici, B. D. White, I. Jeon, A. Breindel,
N. Pouse, and M. B. Maple, A comprehensive study of the chemical
substitution effects on superconductivity in La_(1 − x)_(x)Pt₄Ge₁₂(M =
Ce,Th) (unpublished). * [58] V. Keppens, D. Mandrus, B. C. Sales, B. C.
Chakoumakos, P. Dai, R. Coldea, M. B. Maple, D. A. Gajewski, E. J.
Freeman, and S. Bennington, Localized vibrational modes in metallic
solids, Nature (London) **395**, 876 (1998). * [59] Y. Nakai, K. Ishida,
K. Magishi, H. Sugawara, D. Kikuchi, and H. Sato, Battling phonons in
the filled skutterudite studied with La-NMR, P-NMR/Sb-NQR, J. Magn.
Magn. Mater. **310**, 255 (2007). * [60] T. Yanagisawa, T. Mayama, H.
Hidaka, H. Amitsuka, A. Yamaguchi, K. Araki, Y. Nemoto, T. Goto, N.
Takeda, P.-C. Ho, and M. B. Maple, Ultrasonic investigation of
off-center rattling in Pr_(0.55)Nd_(0.45)Cu₈Sb₁₂, Physica B **404**,
3235 (2009). * [61] J.-i. Yamamura and Z. Hiroi, Rattling vibrations
observed by means of single-crystal x-ray diffraction in the filled
skutterudite ROs₄ Sb₁₂ (R = La, Ce, Pr, Nd, Sm), J. Phys. Soc. Jpn.
**80**, 054601 (2011). * [62] T. Keiber, F. Bridges, R. E. Baumbach, and
M. B. Maple, Unusual local disorder in NdOs₄Sb₁₂ and PrOs₄Sb₁₂
skutterudites, Phys. Rev. B **86**, 174106 (2012). * [63] F. A. Garcia,
R. Gumeniuk, W. Schnelle, J. Sichelschmidt, A. Leithe-Jasper, Y. Grin,
and F. Steglich, Spin dynamics of s-state ions in the filled
skutterudites La_(1 − x)_(x)_(x)Pt₄Ge₁₂ (R = Gd, Eu), Phys. Rev. B
**85**, 134402 (2012). * [64] D. Venkateshwarlu, S. S. Samatham, M.
Gangrade, and V. Ganesan, Superconductivity in partially filled
skutterudite Pr_(0.5)Pt₄Ge₁₂, J. Phys.: Conf. Ser. **534**, 012040
(2014).
