# Effect of Ru substitution for Ni on the superconductivity in
MgCNi3-xRu_(x)

T. Klimczuk,^(1, 2) V. Gupta,¹ G. Lawes,³ A. P. Ramirez,³ and R. J.
Cava¹

¹Department of Chemistry, Princeton University, Princeton, New Jersey
08544, USA

²Faculty of Applied Physics and Mathematics, Gdansk University of
Technology, Naratuwicza 11/12, 80-952 Gdansk, Poland

³Los Alamos National Laboratory, Los Alamos, New Mexico 87544, USA

###### Abstract

The superconductor MgCNi3 has been chemically doped by partial
substitution of Ru for Ni in the solid solution MgCNi3-xRu_(x) for
0<x<0.5. Magnetic and specific heat measurements show that the
Sommerfeld parameter ($\gamma_{\rm exp}$) and T_(C) decrease immediately
on Ru substitution, but that a T_(C) above 2 K is maintained even for a
relatively large decrease in $\gamma_{\rm exp}$. Ferromagnetism is not
observed to develop through Ru substitution, and the normal state
magnetic susceptibility is suppressed.

pacs: DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.70.094511 + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL
REVIEW B **70**, 094511 (2004)

## I Introduction

For a handful of materials, the evolution from superconductivity to
ferromagnetism as chemical, structural or electronic characteristics are
changed is the subject of considerable current research.[1, 2, 3] The 7
K superconductor MgCNi3 displays none of the extreme sensitivities to
impurities and disorder that the mainstream of such compounds
display,[4] but nonetheless its very large Ni content, and unusual
characteristics of its calculated electronic structure, notably a very
large, narrow peak in the density of states at the Fermi energy, have
suggested that it may have an exotic mechanism for superconductivity.[5,
6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12] Experimental characterization of the
superconducting and normal state properties have so far revealed some
properties that appear to be entirely conventional in character,[13] and
others that are highly unusual.[14, 15]

Analysis of the calculated electronic structure has suggested that
MgCNi3 is electronically close to a ferromagnetic instability, and that
a change in electron count, as little as −0.1 electrons per formula unit
in some analyses, should put the Fermi level near the peak in the
expected electronic density of states, leading to a ferromagnetism.[12,
16] This has motivated a series of studies to decrease the electron
count MgCNi3 by chemical alteration to uncover the incipient
ferromagnetic state: by inducing C deficiency.[17, 18] and by partial
substitution of Co, Fe or Mn for Ni.[19, 20, 21] The substitution of 3d
elements for Ni suppresses the superconductivity to below 2 K very
quickly, at levels of 1

Here we report the effect of Ru substitution on the superconductivity in
MgCNi3, with the goal of inducing primarily an electron count effect by
substitution of an electron deficient element that is not likely to act
as a magnetic pair breaker due to its 4d character. Characterization of
the materials prepared indicates a decrease of magnetic susceptibility
with increasing Ru content, the opposite of what is observed for the Co
and Mn substitutions, indicating that Ru displays no magnetic moment. We
show that the superconductivity is suppressed much more slowly than is
observed in the 3d element substitution cases, though again, no
ferromagnetism is revealed.

## II Experiment

A series of 0.5 g samples with compositions
Mg_(1.2)C_(1.8)Ni_(3 − x)Ru_(x) (x= 0, 0.005, 0.01, 0.02, 0.033, 0.066,
0.1, 0.2, 0.3, 0.4, 0.5, and 0.6) were synthesized. The starting
materials were bright Mg flakes (99deg*E Aldrich Chemical), fine Ni
powder (99.9

Zero field cooling dc ($H_{\rm dc}$=20 Oe) and ac ($H_{\rm dc}$=5 Oe,
$H_{\rm ac}$=3 Oe, f=10 kHz) magnetizations were measured in the range
of 1.8−8 K (PPMS-Quantum Design). The specific heat measurements were
done using a standard relaxation technique with a commercial calorimeter
(Quantum Design PPMS). In order to ensure good thermal contact for the
specific heat measurements, the samples were mixed with fine silver
powder in a 1:1 ratio and cold sintered into a hard disk. The heat
capacity of the silver powder was measured separately and subtracted.

## III Results

The x-ray diffraction measurements indicated that the crystallographic
cell parameter for the MgCNi3-xRu_(x) phase increases systematically
with increasing Ru content. The extended powder pattern for MgCNi₃ is
shown in the inset to Fig. 1. Very small amounts of MgO were observed in
some samples. The MgO present does not affect the stoichiometry of the
MgCNi₃ phase, and neither does any elemental C present.[17] The main
panel of Fig. 1 shows the shifting of the (332) peak for the six
representative doped samples with stoichiometry MgCNi_(3 − x)Ru_(x)
(x=0, 0.1, 0.2, 0.3, 0.4, and 0.5). The distinct α₁-α₂ splitting
confirms the high sample quality–such splitting would not be visible for
poorly crystallized or compositionally inhomogeneous materials. Figure 2
indicates a linear relationship between the Ruthenium concentration and
the cubic cell parameter. As the Ru doping is increased from x=0 to
x=0.5, the lattice expands from a =3.809(1) A to 3.851(1) A, as derived
from least-squares fits to 9 x-ray reflections between 20^(∘) and 90^(∘)
degrees 2θ. The x=0.6 sample is multiple phase, indicating that the
limit of solubility is between 0.5 and 0.6.

The reported T_(C)s for pure bulk MgCNi₃ vary between approximately 6
and 7.5 K.[4, 18, 21] Such differences may be due to the carbon content
of the samples, but in the initial preparation of the MgCNi₃ samples for
this study we observed that under the same synthetic conditions the
T_(C) observed was dependent on the starting materials employed. As Fig.
3 shows, when Johnson Matthey Puratonic Nickel Powder and Johnson
Matthey Nickel Powder–Low Carbon powders were used, the resulting MgCNi₃
samples gave a superconducting transition temperature (T_(C) onset)
around the reported value of 7 K. However, when Alfa Aesar Nickel Powder
was employed, the transition temperature dropped to 5.7 K. We presume
that a minor magnetic impurity in the Alfa Aesar Nickel powder is
responsible for the reduction in the transition temperature. As a result
of this finding, all samples used for the purposes of this paper were
synthesized using Johnson Mathey Puratronic Ni.

Figure 4 shows, for representative Ru concentrations, zero-field cooling
dc magnetization data for the MgCNi_(3 − x)Ru_(x) samples. T_(C)
decreases systematically with in

Figure 4: dc magnetization characterization of the superconducting
transition in representative MgCNi_(3 − x)Ru_(x) samples.

Figure 3: Magnetic characterization of the superconducting transition
for three samples of MgCNi₃ prepared from different Ni starting
material.

Figure 2: (Color online) Cubic cell parameter vs x in
MgCNi_(3 − x)Ru_(x). Inset shows the crystallographic structure.

creasing Ru content. The transitions remain bulk in character, but as
T_(C) approaches the minimum available temperature of the measurement,
smaller diamagnetism and a smaller fraction of the transition is
observed as less of the transition is accessible in the temperature
range of measurement. In order to measure the transition temperatures
most precisely, zero field ac susceptibilities were measured. The ac
data for the same samples are shown in Fig. 5. The T_(C)s determined
from the ac data are used in the analysis that follows. As seen in Fig.
6, the superconducting transition temperature decreases systematically
with increasing Ru content. The rate of the decrease in T_(C) is very
much slower than is observed for the electron-deficient substitutions
from the 3d series. T_(C) decreases more slowly at the larger Ru
concentrations. Because measurements could not be made below 1.8 K, we
do not know whether x = 0.5 displays superconductivity at a lower
temperature.

Unreacted ferromagnetic Ni metal, always present in very small
(fractional percentage) amounts in MgCNi₃ powder preparations (no single
crystals have yet been reported), complicates measurement of the normal
state magnetic susceptibility. This contribution to the susceptibility
must be subtracted through the analysis of M vs H curves. Figure 7
illustrates the field dependence of the magnetization for the six
representative samples of MgCNi_(3 − x)Ru_(x) measured at T = 10 K.
Initially, the magnetization for all six samples increases rapidly,
until μ₀H equals approximately 2 T: the initial rapid increase in the
magnetization is due to the presence of Ni metal impurity, and is
present in small amounts to the highest temperature of our measurements
(300 K). Therefore, to approximate the intrinsic susceptibility of the
MgCNi_(3 − x)Ru_(x) compounds, the difference in magnetization (ΔM)
between applied fields of 4 T and 2 T was employed at each temperature
to estimate the susceptibility (χ = ΔM/ΔH) for all samples. The maximum
amount of Ni present, estimated from the saturation magnetization of Ni
metal, is 0.1

The susceptibility (ΔM/ΔH) derived in such a fashion for representative
samples between x = 0 and x = 0.5 is shown in Fig. 8, for temperatures
between 5 K and 300 K. The susceptibilities increase with decreasing
temperature, as previously observed for MgCNi₃,[9, 20] Both the
magnitude of the susceptibility and its increase with decreasing
temperature are suppressed by increasing Ru substitution. The
susceptibility for x = 0.5 is essentially temperature independent
paramagnetism. The Ru concentration dependence of the estimated
susceptibility at 10 K is presented in Fig. 9. There is a substantial
decrease in the susceptibility at 10 K, even for the smallest Ru doping
levels.

Figure 10 presents the specific heat at low temperatures for
representative Ru concentrations. The specific heat above T_(c) consists
of the linear electronic contribution ($\gamma_{\rm exp}T$) and

Figure 5: ac magnetization characterization of the superconducting
transition in representative MgCNi_(3 − x)Ru_(x) samples.

Figure 6: Superconducting critical temperature (T_(C)) in
MgCNi_(3 − x)Ru_(x) as a function of Ru doping (x).

Figure 7: Field dependence of the magnetization at 10 K for
MgCNi_(3 − x)Ru_(x) used to extract the effect of ferromagnetic Ni
impurity.

the cubic lattice contribution (βT³). Plotting C/T as a function of T²
allows us to extract values for $\gamma_{\rm exp}$ from the intercept of
the straight line that is the best fit to the data from just above T_(C)
to T²=125 K². Some deviation from linearity visible for the x=0.5 sample
at the lowest temperatures suggests that there may be some kind of phase
transition for T< 2 K for this material. The composition dependence of
$\gamma_{\rm exp}$ is shown in Fig. 11. For our undoped MgCNi₃, the
Sommerfeld parameter $\gamma_{\rm exp}$ is 31± 2 mJ/mol K², which is in
good agreement with values previously reported (29−33.6 mol/mol K²).[4,
13, 14, 16, 19, 20] There is a dramatic decrease in $\gamma_{\rm exp}$
at very low Ru concentrations, from 31 mJ/mol K² at x=0 to 24 mJ/mol K²
by x=0.05. $\gamma_{\rm exp}$ continues to decrease with increasing Ru
concentration, but decreases at a much lower rate between x=0.1 and
x=0.5 then it does between x=0 and x=0.1.

## IV Discussion and conclusions

Band structure calculations on MgCNi₃ universally agree that the density
of states at the Fermi level should first increase and then decrease on
decreasing the electron count of MgCNi₃.[5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12]
Figure 11 shows, however, that the Sommerfeld parameter
$\gamma_{\rm exp}$ decreases over the whole range of electron deficiency
afforded by Ru substitution, and, to the extent that $\gamma_{\rm exp}$
is a representation of the electronic density of states, the current
results suggest that that does not occur for electron count decrease
induced by Ru substitution.

Figure 12 illustrates the variation of T_(C) with Sommerfeld parameter,
$\gamma_{\rm exp}$. For low levels of doping (the highest
$\gamma_{\rm exp}$ values) T_(C) changes very little with substantial
changes in $\gamma_{\rm exp}$: a decrease in $\gamma_{\rm exp}$ of about
20

Figure 11: Electron contribution to the specific heat (γ) in
MgCNi_(3 → x)Ru_(x).

Figure 8: Magnetic susceptibility χ vs temperature in representative
samples of MgCNi_(3 → x)Ru_(x). χ=ΔM/ΔH determined as shown in Fig. 7.

Figure 10: Low temperature specific heat characterization of
representative MgCNi_(3 → x)Ru_(x) samples.

31 to 25 mJ/mol K², changes T_(C) by less than 1 K. The relative
insensitivity of T_(C) to electron count, structural disorder, and
$\gamma_{\rm exp}$ clearly distinguishes MgCNi₃ as being substantially
different from superconductors where ferromagnetism and
superconductivity have been clearly linked. Finally, Fig. 13 presents
the magnetic susceptibility, ΔM/ΔH, plotted against $\gamma_{\rm exp}$
(data taken from Figs. 9 and 11). The figure shows that the magnetic
susceptibility increases as $\gamma_{\rm exp}$ increases, in agreement
with the expected behavior. It further shows that within experimental
error the ratio of χ (ΔM/ΔH) to $\gamma_{\rm exp}$ is estimated to be
1.11 ± 0.05 (R=(π²k_(B)²/3μ_(B)²)($\chi/\gamma_{\rm exp}$)) for the
whole range of Ru substitution. The present value is close to the 1.2
reported for the undoped material by Hayward.[20]

Our characterization of the superconductivity in the solid solution
series MgCNi_(3 → ∞)Ru_(x) has shown that the effect of the electron
deficient 4d metal substitution for Ni is substantially different from
what is observed in the cases of 3d element substitution. T_(C) is
relatively robust across the 4d substitution solid solution, suggesting
that the strong suppression of T_(C) for the 3d substitutions represents
magnetic pair breaking. There may be mitigating effects of disorder, and
differences in coupling strength across the series, but the observed
behavior of $\gamma_{\rm exp}$ on Ru substitution is not consistent with
the presence of a sharp peak in the electronic density of states at
electron counts just less than that of MgCNi₃, consistent with XPS, XAS,
and UPS spectroscopy studies that have suggested that the peak in the
DOS is strongly renormalized from what is seen in electronic structure
calculations.[9, 22] Considering that Cu doping (which adds electrons)
also suppresses T_(C) without the development of ferromagnetism, the
current results suggest that ferromagnetism in MgCNi₃ is not easily
induced by chemical substitution.

## Acknowledgments

This work was supported by the U.S. Department of Energy, Grant No.
DE-FG02-98-ER45706 and partially by the U.S. National Science
Foundation, Grants Nos. DMR 0244254 and 0213706. Work at Los Alamos
National Laboratory was supported by LDRD. The work done by T.K. was
graciously supported by The Foundation for Polish Science (Foreign
Postdoc Fellowship Grant).

## References

* [1] S.S. Saxena, P. Agarwal, K. Ahilan, F.M. Grosche, R.K.W.
Haselwimmer, M.J. Steiner, E. Pugh, I.R. Walker, S.R. Julian, P.
Monthoux, G.G. Lonzarich, A. Huxley, I. Sheikin, D. Braithwaite, and J.
Flouquet, Nature (London) **406**, 587 (2000). * [2] C. Pfleiderer, M.
Uhlarz, S.M. Hayden, R. Vollmer, H.V. Lohneysen, N.R. Bernhoeft, and
G.G. Lonzarich, Nature (London) **412**, 58 (2001). * [3] D. Aoki, A.
Huxley, E. Ressouche, D. Braithwaite, J. Floquet, J.-P. Brison, E.
Lhotel, and C. Paulsen, Nature (London) **413**, 613 (2001). * [4] T.
He, Q. Huang, A.P. Ramirez, Y. Wang, K.A. Regan, N. Rogado, M.A.
Hayward, M. K. Haas, J.J. Slusky, K. Inumara, H.W. Zandbergen, N.P. Ong,
and R.J. Cava, Nature (London) **411**, 54 (2001). * [5] S.B. Dudgale
and T. Jarlborg, Phys. Rev. B **64**, 100508(R) (2001). * [6] A. Szajek,
J. Phys.: Condens. Matter **13**, L595 (2001). * [7] D.J. Singh and I.I.
Mazin, Phys. Rev. B **64**, 140507(R) (2001). * [8] J.H. Shim, S.K.
Kwon, and B.I. Min, Phys. Rev. B **64**, 180510 (2001). * [9] I.R.
Shein, A.L. Ivanovskii, E.Z. Kurmaev, A. Moewes, S. Chiuzbain, L.D.
Finkelstein, M. Neumann, Z.A. Ren, and G.C. Che, Phys. Rev. B **66**,
024520 (2002). * [10] I.G. Kim, J.I. Lee, and A.J. Freeman, Phys. Rev. B
**65**, 064525 (2002). * [11] J.L. Wang, Y. Xu, Z. Zeng, Q.Q. Zeng, and
H.Q. Lin, J. Appl. Phys. **91**, 8504 (2002). * [12] H. Rosner, R. Weht,
M.D. Johannes, W.E. Pickett, and E. Tosatti,

Figure 12: Superconducting critical temperature (T_(C)) as a function of
γ in MgCNi_(3 → ∞)Ru_(x).

Phys. Rev. Lett. **88**, 027001 (2002). * [13] See, for instance, J.Y.
Lin, P.L. Ho, H.L. Huang, P.H. Lin, Y.L. Zhang, R.C. Yu, C.Q. Jin, and
H.D. Yang, Phys. Rev. B **67**, 052501 (2003). * [14] Z.Q. Mao, M.M.
Rosario, K.D. Nelson, K. Wu, I.G. Deac, P. Schiffer, and Y. Liu, Phys.
Rev. B **67**, 094502 (2003). * [15] R. Prozorov, A. Snezhko, T. He, and
R.J. Cava, Phys. Rev. B **68**, 180502(R) (2003). * [16] H. Rosner, M.D.
Johannes, W.E. Pickett, G. Fuchs, A. Walte, S.L. Drechsler, S.V. Shulga,
K.H. Muller, A. Handstein, K. Nenkov, J. Freudenberger, and L. Shultz,
Physica C **388**-**389**, 563 (2003). * [17] T.G. Amos, Q. Huang, J.W.
Lynn, T. He, and R.J. Cava, Solid State Commun. **121**, 73 (2002). *
[18] Z.A. Ren, G.C. Che, S.L. Jia, H. Chen, Y.M. Ni, G.D. Liu, and Z.X.
Zhao, Physica C **371**, 1 (2002). * [19] A. Das and R.K. Kremer, Phys.
Rev. B **68**, 064503 (2003). * [20] M.A. Hayward, M.K. Haas, A.P.
Ramirez, T. He, K.A. Regan, N. Rogado, K. Inumaru, and R.J. Cava, Solid
State Commun. **119**, 491 (2001). * [21] T. Geetha Kumary, J. Janaki,
Awadhesh Mani, S. Mathi Jaya, V. S. Sastry, Y. Hariharan, T.S.
Radhakrishnan, and M.C. Valsakumar, Phys. Rev. B **66**, 064510
(2002). * [22] J.H. Kim, J.S. Ahn, Jinsoo Kim, Min-Seok Park, S.I. Lee,
E.J. Choi, and S.-J. Oh, Phys. Rev. B **66**, 172507 (2002).
