# Absence of a boron isotope effect in the magnetic penetration depth of
MgB₂

D. Di Castro,^(1,)* M. Angst,¹ D. G. Eshchenko,^(1, 2) R.
Khasanov,^(1, 2) J. Roos,¹ I. M. Savic,³ A. Shengelaya,¹ S. L. Bud’ko,⁴
P. C. Canfield,⁴ K. Conder,⁵ J. Karpinski,⁶ S. M. Kazakov,⁶ R. A.
Ribeiro,⁴ and H. Keller¹

¹Physik-Institut der Universitat Zurich, CH-8057 Zurich, Switzerland

²Paul Scherrer Institute, CH-5232 Villigen PSI, Switzerland

³Faculty of Physics, University of Belgrade, 11001 Belgrade, Yugoslavia

⁴Ames Laboratory and Department of Physics and Astronomy, Iowa State
University, Ames, Iowa 50011, USA

⁵Laboratory for Neutron Scattering, ETH Zurich and PSI Villigen, CH-5232
Villigen PSI, Switzerland

⁶Solid State Physics Laboratory, ETH, CH-8093 Zurich, Switzerland

Received 3 May 2004; published 30 July 2004

###### Abstract

The magnetic penetration depth λ(0) in polycrystalline MgB₂ for
different boron isotopes (¹⁰B/¹¹B) was investigated by transverse field
muon spin rotation. No boron isotope effect on the penetration depth
λ(0) was found within experimental error: Δλ(0)/λ(0)=0.8(8)

pacs: DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.70.014519 PACS number(s): 74.70.Ad,
71.38.−k, 76.75.+i, 82.20.Tr + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL REVIEW B
**70**, 014519 (2004)

Since the discovery of superconductivity with transition temperature
T_(c) 39 K in the binary intermetallic compound MgB₂,¹ a large number of
experimental and theoretical investigations were performed in order to
explain the mechanism and the origin of its remarkably high transition
temperature. Experiments were done revealing the important role played
by the lattice excitations in this material.^(2,)^(3,)^(4,)⁵ In
particular, the substitution of the ¹¹B with ¹⁰B has been demonstrated
to shift T_(c) to higher temperatures,^(2,)³ as expected for a phonon
mediated pairing mechanism.

However, MgB₂ differs from conventional superconductors in several
important aspects, including, for instance, the unusually high T_(c) and
the anomalous specific heat.⁶ Calculations^(7,)⁸ based on the Eliashberg
formalism support the experimental results,^(6,)^(9,)¹¹ revealing MgB₂
to be a two-band superconductor with two superconducting gaps of
different size, the larger one originating from a 2D σ-band and the
smaller one from a 3D π-band. The electronic σ-states are confined to
the boron planes and couple strongly to the in-plane vibration of the
boron atoms (E_(2g) phonon mode). This strong pairing, confined only to
parts of the Fermi surface, is the principal contribution responsible
for superconductivity and mainly determines T_(c). The π-states on the
remaining parts of the Fermi surface form much weaker pairs. The
double-gap structure explains most of the unusual physical properties of
MgB₂, such as the high critical temperature, the total T_(c)
isotope-effect coefficient (α 0.32³), the temperature dependent specific
heat,⁶ tunneling,¹⁰ and upper critical field anisotropy
$H_{c2}^{\rm ink}/H_{c2}^{\rm lc}$.¹²

An interesting point to be clarified concerns the nature of the
electron-lattice coupling. It was proposed¹³ ⁻ ¹⁵ that MgB₂ is a
nonadiabatic superconductor. Alexandrov¹³ suggested that, because of the
large coupling strength of the electrons to the E_(2g) phonon mode, the
many-electron system is unstable and breaks down into a small polaron
system, similar to the cuprate high temperature superconductors (HTSC),
where the charge carriers are trapped by local lattice distortion.
Cappelluti _et al.¹⁴_ proposed that the small value of the Fermi energy
E_(F) of the σ bands relative to the phonon energy $\omega_{\rm ph}$
violates the adiabatic assumption ($\omega_{\rm ph}$ ≪E_(F)), opening up
a nonadiabatic channel that enhances T_(c). Both these nonadiabatic
models^(13,)¹⁴ explicitly predict, but not quote, a boron isotope effect
(BIE) on the carrier effective mass m^(*) in MgB₂. Zhao¹⁵ proposed an
unconventional phonon mediated mechanism for superconductivity,
predicting a boron isotope effect on the inverse squared magnetic
penetration depth λ⁻² of 4

Here, a muon spin rotation (μSR) study of the magnetic penetration depth
λ(0) in polycrystalline MgB₂ for different boron isotopes (¹⁰B/¹¹B) is
reported. μSR is a powerful microscopic tool to measure the magnetic
penetration depth λ.²⁷ Indeed, in a polycrystalline type II
superconductor with a perfect vortex lattice (VL) the average magnetic
penetration depth λ can be extracted from the muon-spin depolarization
rate σ(T) ×λ⁻²(T).²⁷ In our measurement, no BIE on λ(0) was observed
within experimental error [Δλ(0)/λ(0) =0.8(8)

To our knowledge, our experiments also provide for the first time a
_direct_ experimental evidence for the absence of an isotope effect on
the penetration depth in a conventional superconductor. Only in a rather
_indirect_ way, it was shown²⁸ by critical field measurements, that in
the conventional strong-coupling superconductor lead there is no isotope
effect on the coefficient of the normal electronic specific heat. This
confirms the validity of the adiabatic approximation in this system.

The μSR experiments were performed on two polycrystalline MgB₂ samples
containing ¹¹B (Mg¹¹B₂) and ¹⁰B (Mg¹⁰B₂). Full details of the sample
synthesis are given in Refs. 2 and 29. In brief, the two samples were
synthesized using elemental Mg (99.9

To examine the quality of the samples low field (0.5 mT, field-cooled)
magnetization measurements were performed using a commercial
Superconducting Quantum Interference Device. Figure 1 shows the
temperature dependence of the magnetization for the Mg¹¹B₂ and Mg¹⁰B₂
samples in the vicinity of T_(c). The high quality of the two samples is
revealed by the sharp transition and the high T_(c) extracted from the
intercept of the linear extrapolations (Fig. 1): T_(c)(¹⁰B) = 40.36(5)
K, T_(c)(¹¹B) = 39.36(5) K. There is a clear isotope shift of
ΔT_(c)=T_(c)(¹¹B)−T_(c)(¹⁰B) = -1.00 (7) K. The corresponding isotope
effect coefficient α_(B)=−d ln(T_(c))/d ln(M_(B)) = 0.29(2) (enrichment
corrected) is in good agreement with previous results.[2, 3]

The transverse-field μSR experiments were performed at the Paul Scherrer
Institute (PSI), Switzerland, using the πM3 μSR facility. The samples
used for the magnetization measurements (see Fig. 1) were pressed in
disk-shaped pellets with 10 mm diameter and 3 mm thickness and cooled in
an external magnetic field $B_{\rm ext}$ perpendicular to the muon spin
polarization from well above T_(c) to temperatures lower than T_(c). The
measurements were taken in a field of $B_{\rm ext}$= 0.6 T (the highest
available at PSI), high enough to avoid pinning induced distortion of
the VL.[30, 31, 32] As shown in Fig. 2 for Mg¹¹B₂ at two different
temperatures, the local magnetic field distribution can be very well
approximated by a single Gaussian, centered at a field lower than the
external one. This again indicates the high quality of the samples and
the absence of any normal conducting domains. From the width of the
Gaussian field distribution, which is proportional to the muon spin
depolarization rate σ, the penetration depth λ, that is the length scale
of the variation of the magnetic field, can be extracted using the
relation λ⁻² ∝ σ.

In Fig. 3, the temperature dependence of σ for the Mg¹¹B₂ (○) and Mg¹⁰B₂
(▴) samples is shown. Below T_(c), σ for both samples starts to increase
and saturates at low temperatures T≈ 6 K, in agreement with previous μSR
measurements.[31] The data for the two samples close to T_(c) show a
clear isotope shift of ΔT_(c)=−1.2(2) K, in agreement with ΔT_(c)
deduced from the low field magnetization measurements (Fig. 1). With
decreasing temperature, the values of σ for Mg¹¹B₂ sample are
systematically lower than those for the Mg¹⁰B₂ sample. However, at low
temperature they merge together, indicating that there is no substantial
BIE on σ(0).

In order to quantify this observation, we performed fits to the
experimental data. It was suggested[31, 32] that for the two-gap
superconductor MgB₂, the temperature dependence of σ can be written in
the form:

σ(T) = σ(0) − w ⋅ δσ(Δ₁, T) − (1 − w) ⋅ δσ(Δ₂, T)
(1)

with δσ(Δ, T)=[2σ(0)/k_(B)T]∫₀^(∞)e,T⋅[1 − f(e, T)]de.

Here, Δ₁ and Δ₂ are the zero temperature large and small gap,
respectively, w is the relative contribution of the large gap to λ⁻²(0),
and f(e, T) is the Fermi distribution. For the temperature dependence of
the gaps we used the conven

Figure 1: Normalized field cooled (0.5 mT) magnetization as a function
of temperature for Mg¹⁰B₂ and Mg¹¹B₂ samples.

Figure 3: Temperature dependence of σ at $B_{\rm ext}$=0.6 T for the two
isotope samples Mg¹⁰B₂ (▴) and Mg¹¹B₂ (○). The solid (Mg¹⁰B₂) and dotted
(Mg¹¹B₂) lines are fits using Eq. (1). Inset: low-temperature region on
a larger scale. The dotted and solid horizontal lines represent the
weighed average values of σ(0) for T<7.5 K for Mg¹⁰B₂ and Mg¹¹B₂,
respectively.

Figure 2: Local magnetic field distribution, obtained from the Fourier
transform of the muon spin precession signal, for Mg¹¹B₂ at 2 (▾) and 25
K (▫). Solid lines are Gaussian fits to the experimental data. The
vertical solid line indicates the external field of 0.6 T.

tional BCS Δ(T). In order to improve the ratio of the number of data
point vs the number of fit parameters, the two gaps and w were
considered as common fitting parameters for the two isotope data. As
shown by the solid and dotted lines in Fig. 3, the experimental data are
well described by Eq. (1). The fit yields: σ(0)^(¹¹B) = 9.79(10) μs⁻¹,
σ(0)^(¹⁰B) = 9.95(11) μs⁻¹, w = 0.88(2), Δ₁ = 4.9(1), and Δ₂ = 1.1(3).
All these values are in very good agreement with previous μSR
measurements performed by us on a natural boron MgB₂ sample and by
Ohishi _et al._[32]. It is interesting to note that the high value of w
implies that only a very small contribution to σ(0) originates from the
π-band, in accordance with the experimental finding that the superfluid
density in the π-band is strongly suppressed by an external magnetic
field.[6, 9, 10, 33, 34, 35] Below we discuss this issue in more
details.

The relative isotope shift of σ(0) is

(σ(0)^(¹¹B) − σ(0)^(¹⁰B))/σ(0)^(¹⁰B) = Δσ(0)/σ(0) = Δλ⁻²(0)/λ⁻²(0) = −1.6(1.5) % ,

corresponding to:

Δλ(0)/λ(0) = 0.8(8) % .
(2)

For comparison, we calculated the relative isotope shift using a
different and model independent procedure, taking the weighed average of
the experimental points for T < 7.5 K (see inset of Fig. 3), where σ(T)
saturates. We obtained Δσ(0)/σ(0) = Δλ⁻²(0)/λ⁻²(0) = −0.5(8)%. Both the
procedures give results compatible with zero BIE on the penetration
depth l(0).

Here, it is very important to recall that the two isotope samples used
in the experiment were made with the same starting Mg for both the
samples, and with ¹⁰B and ¹¹B powders of the same mesh size
(distribution of grain sizes), and were synthesized under exactly the
same conditions. Therefore, we can exclude any influence on σ due to
different grain size and to a difference in pinning or vortex dynamical
effects.

To check the reliability of our results, a second measurement on a set
(set B) of samples from different source and preparation technique and
with smaller Meissner fraction, was performed in a field of 0.4 T. The
results are very similar to the first set (set A) shown above:
Δλ⁻²(0)/λ⁻²(0) = -1.5(1.7)

We note that we did not attempt to decompose the effective penetration
depth l into l_(ab) and l_(c). It was shown[37] that in anisotropic
polycrystalline samples with large anisotropy factor γ, l is mainly
determined by the in-plane penetration depth l_(ab):l = _k_l_(ab), with
k varying with γ. In MgB₂, however, γ has a characteristic behavior as a
function of temperature and magnetic field (see, for example, Refs. [12,
33]), due to the presence of two distinct bands, but not yet fully
understood in a quantitative way. Particularly with a field dependent
anisotropy, an accidental cancellation of non-zero isotope effects on
l_(c) and l_(ab) both in 0.4 and 0.6 T can be considered highly
unlikely. Therefore, in the rest of the paper we continue to use the
effective l.

It is interesting to contrast the result given in Eq. (2) with the
oxygen isotope effect found in cuprate superconductors.[19, 20, 21, 22,
23, 24, 25, 26] At all doping levels a substantial oxygen isotope effect
on l_(ab) was observed, ranging from 2.8(1)

Theoretically, the zero temperature penetration depth is proportional to
a density-of-states weighed average of a tensor involving the Fermi
velocities. Detailed calculations within different formalisms have been
carried out for MgB₂ (see Refs. [38, 39]). For our purpose it is
sufficient to use the simpler London approach considering a free
electron model and linking l(0) to the superconducting charge carrier
density n_(s) and effective mass m^(*), only considering different

  ------- ------------ ------------ ---------------- -------------
           σ(0)^(¹⁰B)   σ(0)^(¹¹B)   Δλ⁻²(0)/λ⁻²(0)  
             (μs⁻¹)       (μs⁻¹)                     
   Set A    9.95(11)     9.79(10)     −0.016(15)a     −0.005(8)b
   Set B   12.91(17)    12.69(13)     −0.015(17)a     −0.016(30)b
  ------- ------------ ------------ ---------------- -------------

Table 1: Summary of the BIE results for σ(0) obtained from the μSR
measurements of two sets of isotope samples.

contributions from the σ and the π bands. There is of course a direct
connection between the Fermi velocities and the effective mass (a band
average), both of which are not bare quantities, but in general
renormalized, e.g., due to coupling with the phonons. The London
approach has the advantage of facilitating the comparison with
theoretical predictions [13, 14] and results obtained on cuprate
superconductors, [19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26] all of which are
formulated within this approach.

Unlike the cuprate superconductors with their extremely short coherence
lengths, MgB₂ cannot be considered as being in the superclean limit and
we need to consider a possible impact of scattering. In a moderately
clean superconductor the penetration depth is related to the effective
mass m^(*) by the following relation: [40]

1/λ² = [μ_(o)e²/c²](n_(s)/m^(*))[1/(1 + ξ/ξ)],
(3)

where n_(s) and m^(*) are the superconducting charge carrier density and
effective mass, respectively, ξ is the coherence length, and ξ is the
mean free path. As already mentioned, the major contribution (∼90

$$\frac{\Delta\lambda^{-2}(0)}{\lambda^{-2}(0)}=\frac{\Delta n_{s}}{n_{s}}-\frac {\Delta m^{*}}{m^{*}}.$$
(4)

The contribution from the supercarrier density n_(s) is negligible, as
was already experimentally demonstrated in the case of HTSC. [20, 21,
22] Specifically, for MgB₂, it can be argued that: (i) by changing the
isotope only the mass of the nuclei is changed and not the charge
carrier density n. Furthermore, MgB₂ is a stoichiometric compound; (ii)
x-ray diffraction measurements, performed on the samples used for the
μSR experiments, showed no substantial difference between the lattice
parameters of Mg¹¹B₂ and Mg¹⁰B₂. This implies that the band structure is
not appreciably modified by the isotope substitution. Therefore,
assuming Δn_(s)/n_(s)=0 in Eq. (4) and neglecting the small π-band
contribution, we can estimate the boron isotope effect on the σ-band
effective mass m_(σ^(*))^(*)

Δm_(σ^(*))^(*)/m_(σ)^(*) = −Δλ⁻²(0)/λ⁻²(0) = 1.6(1.5) % .
(5)

Here we have used the value of the relative shift on λ⁻²(0) obtained
from the fit to Eq. (1). There is no BIE on the σ-band effective mass
within experimental error.

Our result then suggests that nonadiabatic or polaronic effects in MgB₂
are absent or negligibly small, and establishes an upper limit [Eq. (2)
and Eq. (5)] to any theoretical prediction of such effects. [13, 14, 15]
This conclusion is in contrast to cuprate superconductors, where a
substantial oxygen isotope effect on m^(*), well above the upper limit
stated here, was observed. [19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26] Recent
magnetization measurements on MgB₂ under pressure [43] show no
substantial pressure effect on the magnetic penetration depth λ at low
temperature, further supporting the main conclusion of the present work.

In summary, μSR experiments on polycrystalline Mg¹⁰B₂ and Mg¹¹B₂ samples
revealed no substantial boron isotope effect on the magnetic penetration
depth at T=0 K. From this finding we conclude that there is no
substantial BIE on the effective mass m_(σ)^(*) of the charge carriers
in the σ band. This result suggests that MgB₂ is a conventional phonon
mediated superconductor without nonadiabatic or polaronic effects, in
contrast to cuprate superconductors.

This work was partly performed at the Swiss Muon Source (SμS) at the
Paul Scherrer Institute (Villigen, Switzerland). We thank D. Herlach and
A. Amato for technical assistance during the μSR experiments at the Paul
Scherrer Institute and T. Schneider for useful discussions. This work
was supported by the Swiss National Science Foundation and by the NCCR
Program manep sponsored by the Swiss National Science Foundation. Ames
Lab is operated for the U.S. Department of Energy by Iowa State
University under Contract No. W-7405-Eng-85. The work at the Ames Lab
was supported by the Director of Energy Research, Office of Basic Energy
Sciences.

## References

* [1] J. Nagamatsu, N. Nakagawa, T. Muranaka, Y. Zenitani, and J.
Akimitsu, Nature (London) **410**, 63 (2001). * [2] S. L. Bud’ko, G.
Lapertot, C. Petrovic, C. E. Cunningham, N. Anderson, and P. C.
Canfield, Phys. Rev. Lett. **86**, 1877 (2001). * [3] D. G. Hinks, H.
Claus, and J. D. Jorgensen, Nature (London) **411**, 457 (2001). * [4]
D. Di Castro, S. Agrestini, G. Campi, A. Cassetta, M. Colapietro, A.
Congeduti, A. Continenza, S. De Negri, M. Giovannini, S. Massidda, M.
Nardone, A. Pifferi, P. Postorino, G. Profeta, A. Saccone, N. L. Saini,
G. Satta, and A. Bianconi, Europhys. Lett. **58**, 278 (2002). * [5] A.
F. Goncharov and V. V. Struzhkin, Physica C **385**, 117 (2003). * [6]
F. Bouquet, R. A. Fisher, N E. Phillips, D. G. Hinks, and J. D.
Jorgensen, Phys. Rev. Lett. **87**, 047001 (2001). * [7] A. Y. Liu, I.
I. Mazin, and J. Kortus, Phys. Rev. Lett. **87**, 087005 (2001). * [8]
H. J. Choi, D. Roundy, H. Sun, M. L. Cohen, and S. G. Louie, Nature
(London) **418**, 758 (2002). * [9] R. S. Gonnelli, D. Daghero, G. A.
Ummarino, V. A. Stepanov, J. Jun, S. M. Kazakov, and J. Karpinski, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **89**, 247004 (2002). * [10] P. Szabo, P. Samuely, J.
Kacmarcik, T. Klein, J. Marcus, D. Fruchart, S. Miraglia, C. Marcenat,
and A. G. M. Jansen, Phys. Rev. Lett. **87**, 137005 (2001). * [11] S.
Souma, Y. Machida, T. Sato, T. Takahashi, H. Matsui S.-C. Wang, H. Ding,
A. Kaminski, J. C. Campuzano, S. Sasaki, and K. Kadowaki, Nature
(London) **423**, 65 (2003). * [12] M. Angst, R. Puzniak, A. Wisniewski,
J. Jun, S. M. Kazakov, J. Karpinski, J. Roos, and H. Keller, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **88**, 167004 (2002). * [13] A. S. Alexandrov, Physica C **363**,
231 (2001). * [14] E. Cappelluti, S. Ciuchi, C. Grimaldi, L. Pietronero,
and S. Strassler, Phys. Rev. Lett. **88**, 117003 (2002). * [15] G.-M.
Zhao, New J. Phys. **4**, 3.1 (2002). * [16] A. S. Alexandrov and N. F.
Mott, Int. J. Mod. Phys. B **8**, 2075 (1994). * [17] C. Grimaldi, E.
Cappelluti, and L. Pietronero, Europhys. Lett. **42**, 667 (1998). *
[18] A. Bussmann-Holder, R. Micnas, and A. R. Bishop, Philos. Mag.
**84**, 1257 (2004). * [19] G. M. Zhao and D. E. Morris, Phys. Rev. B
**51**, 16 487 (1995). * [20] Guo-meng Zhao, M. B. Hunt, H. Keller, and
K. A. Muller, Nature (London) **385**, 236 (1997). * [21] G. M. Zhao, K.
Conder, H. Keller, and K. A. Muller, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter **10**,
9055 (1998). * [22] J. Hofer, K. Conder, T. Sasagawa, Guo-meng Zhao, M.
Willemin, H. Keller, and K. Kishio, Phys. Rev. Lett. **84**, 4192
(2000). * [23] Guo-meng Zhao, H Keller, and K Conder J. Phys.: Condens.
Matter **13**, R569 (2001). * [24] R. Khasanov, A. Shengelaya, K.
Conder, E. Morenzoni, I. M. Savic, and H. Keller, J. Phys.: Condens.
Matter **15**, L17 (2003). * [25] R. Khasanov, D. G. Eshchenko, H.
Luetkens, E. Morenzoni, T. Prokscha, A. Suter, N. Garifianov, M. Mali,
J. Roos, K. Conder, and H. Keller, Phys. Rev. Lett. **92**, 057602
(2004). * [26] R. Khasanov, A. Shengelaya, E. Morenzoni, M. Angst, K.
Conder, I. M. Savic, D. Lampakis, E. Liarokapis, A. Tatsi, and H.
Keller, Phys. Rev. B **68**, 220506(R) (2003). * [27] B. Pumpin, H.
Keller, W. Kundig, W. Odermatt, I. M. Savic, J. W. Schneider, H.
Simmler, P. Zimmermann, E. Kaldis, S. Rusiecki, Y. Maeno, and C. Rossel,
Phys. Rev. B **42**, 8019 (1990). * [28] R. W. Shaw, D. E. Mapother, and
D. C. Hopkins, Phys. Rev. **121**, 86 (1961). * [29] R. A. Ribeiro, S.
L. Bud’ko, C. Petrovic, and P. C. Canfield, Physica C **385**, 16
(2003). * [30] Random flux pinning near the lower critical field H_(c1)
may induce distortion of the VL, giving rise to a field dependent σ
which affects the value of λ. * [31] Ch. Niedermayer, C. Bernhard, T.
Holden, R. K. Kremer, and K. Ahn, Phys. Rev. B **65**, 094512 (2002). *
[32] K. Ohishi, T. Muranaka, j. Akimitsu, A. Koda, W. Higemoto, and R.
Kadono, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **72**, 29 (2003) * [33] R. Cubitt, M. R.
Eskildsen, C. D. Dewhurst, J. Jun, S. M. Kazakov, and J. Karpinski,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **91**, 047002 (2003). * [34] L. Lyard, P. Szabo, T.
Klein, J. Marcus, C. Marcenat, K. H. Kim, B. W. Kang, H. S. Lee, and S.
I. Lee, Phys. Rev. Lett. **92**, 057001 (2004). * [35] M. Angst, D. Di
Castro, D. G. Eshchenko, R. Khasanov, S. Kohout, I. M. Savic, A.
Shengelaya, S. L. Bud’ko, P. C. Canfield, J. Jun, J. Karpinski, S. M.
Kazakov, R. A. Ribeiro, and H. Keller (unpublished). * [36] See, e.g.,
M. H. S. Amin, M. Franz, and I. Affleck, Phys. Rev. Lett. **84**, 5864
(2000). * [37] W. Barford and J. M. F. Gunn, Physica C **156**, 515
(1998). * [38] V. G. Kogan, Phys. Rev. B **66**, 020509 (2002). * [39]
A. A. Golubov, A. Brinkman, O. V. Dolgov, J. Kortus, and O. Jepsen,
Phys. Rev. B **66**, 054524 (2002). * [40] M. Tinkham, _Introduction to
Superconductivity_ (Krieger, Malabar, 1975). * [41] A. V. Sologubenko,
J. Jun, S. M. Kazakov, J. Karpinski, and H. R. Ott, Phys. Rev. B **66**,
014504 (2002). * [42] F. Bouquet, Y. Wang, I. Sheikin, T. Plackowski, A.
Junod, S. Lee, and S. Tajima, Phys. Rev. Lett. **89**, 257001 (2002). *
[43] D. Di Castro, R. Khasanov, C. Grimaldi, J. Karpinski, S. M.
Kazakov, and H. Keller (unpublished).
