Low-temperature specific-heat and neutron-diffraction studies on Li₂Pd₃B
and Li₂Pt₃B superconductors

H. Takeya

K. Hirata

K. Yamaura

and K. Togano

National Institute for Materials Science, 1-2-1 Sengen, Tsukuba, Ibaraki
305-0047, Japan

M. El Massalami

R. Rapp

and F. A. Chaves

Instituto de Fisica, Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro, Caixa
Postal 68528, 21945-970 Rio de Janeiro, Brazil

B. Ouladdiaf

Institut Laue-Langevin, B.P. 156, 38042 Grenoble Cedex 9, France

Received 9 May 2005; revised manuscript received 28 June 2005; published
9 September 2005

###### Abstract

Powder neutron diffraction analysis on ¹¹B-enriched samples of Li₂Pd₃B
and Li₂Pt₃B confirms the stability, down to liquid helium temperatures,
of their antiperovskite structure (space group P432). The
low-temperature normal-state specific heats (measured within the range
400 mK <_T_<20 K and _H_≤70 koE) follow a superposition of a linear and
a cubic term: for Li₂Pd₃B the Sommerfeld coefficient γ =9.0(1) mJ/mol K²
and the Debye temperature θ_(D)=221(1) K while for Li₂Pt₃B, γ=7.0(1)
mJ/mol K² and θ_(D)=228(1) K. Their thermodynamic superconducting
temperatures _T_c are, respectively, 7.5(3) K and 2.17(5) K while
ΔC/_gT_c are 2.0(3) and 1.39(3). The thermal evolution of the
superconducting specific heat of Li₂Pd₃B is
$C_{\rm ex}$(_T_<_T_c)=22γ_T_c exp(-2.1_T_c/_T_) J/mol K while for
Li₂Pt₃B is $C_{\rm ex}$(_T_<_T_c)=8.5γ_T_c ×exp(-1.42γ_T_c/_T_) J/mol K.
The analysis of these features, within the framework of the
strong-coupled theory, suggests that Li₂Pt₃B is weakly coupled BCS-type
superconductor [_T_c/_o_log→0, λ=0.48(2), _N_(_E_F_) =1.00(2)
states/eV/formula unit, and 2Δ₀/_T_c=3.53] while Li₂Pd₃B is an
intermediate-coupled BCS-type superconductor [_T_c/_o_log=0.068(5),
λ=1.09(7), _N_(_E_F_)=0.91(4) states/eV/formula unit, and
2Δ₀/_T_c=3.94(4)]. We discuss the reported reduction of _T_c with x in
the solid solution Li₂(Pt₃Pd_(1 − λ))₃B.

pacs: 10.1103/PhysRevB.72.104506 + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL REVIEW
B **72**, 104506 (2005)

## I Introduction

Recently superconductivity has been discovered in the antiperovskites
Li₂Pd₃B (Ref. 1) and Li₂Pt₃B (Refs. 2 and 3). These compounds
crystallize [4] in the cubic space group P432, wherein the Pd/Pt atoms
are arranged at the vertices of distorted octahedra that are centered by
a B ion. The octahedra share all vertices and as such form an extended
three-dimensional framework. Each of the Li atoms–situated in the space
between the distorted octahedra–is surrounded by three Li nearest
neighbors at a distance of 2.55 A; such a Li-Li distance is less than
that found in the Li metal (3.04 A), a feature considered by Eibenstein
and Jung [4] as indicative of electronic charge transfer from lithium to
the Pd/B (Pt/B) network. It is not yet clear whether this charge
transfer is the driving mechanism behind the surge of the
superconductivity in these metal-rich borides; nonetheless, the presence
of both a shorter Li-Li distance and a distorted octahedral remains a
remarkable structural property, which deserves further studies. This
work, utilizing the neutron powder diffraction analysis with it superior
sensitivity for the lighter Li and B atoms, reports on the structural
properties of these compounds with particular attention to their
structural stability when the temperature is decreased down to the
superconducting region.

The structural and normal-state properties of Li₂Pd₃B and Li₂Pt₃B are
very similar. Both show similar metallic-type resistivity, [2, 3] with
the same magnitude, the same thermal evolution, and the same ratio ρ₃₀₀
K/ρ₁₀ K =1.4. In addition, electronic structure calculations [5] show
that there is a similarity in the electron density distribution of both
compounds, that the density of state at the Fermi level _N_(_E_F_) is
due predominantly to the d orbitals of the Pd/Pt atoms hybridized with B
_2p_ and Li _2p_ states, [6, 7, 8] and that the total _N_(_E_F_) is
larger in Li₂Pt₃B than that in Li₂Pd₃B.

The superconducting parameters of Li₂Pd₃B are substantially enhanced as
compared to that of Li₂Pt₃B (e.g., the superconducting transition point
_T_c of the former is three times higher than that of the latter). [2,
3, 9] Such a tendency is clearly manifested in the systematic studies on
the solid solution Li₂(Pt_(x)Pd_(1 − x))₃B. [2, 3] as a matter of fact,
_T_c varies almost linearly with x. Considering the remarkable
similarity between their structural and normal-state electronic
properties and, furthermore, that there are no obvious pair-breaking
mechanism(s), it is then surprising that their superconducting
properties, in particular _T_c, are much different. It is then of
interest to investigate the cause of such a variation and as well the
pairing mechanism in these metal-rich ternary borides and therefrom
deduce the origin of the almost linear behavior of _T_c with x. As a
contribution in that direction, it is most appropriate to undertake
specific heat measurements so as to probe the low-temperature thermal
and electronic properties of the two end members of this series. Then it
is possible to judge whether there is any correlation between the
superconductivity, the thermal/electronic properties, and the content of
the Pt/Pd atoms. With that objective in mind, in this work we report on
the specific-heat measurements on Li₂Pd₃B and Li₂Pt₃B within the range
0.4 K < T< 20 K and in a magnetic field up to 70 kOe (a limit that is
higher than H_(c2)).

## II Experimental

Samples were prepared by a two-stage arc-melting process (for details,
see Ref. 1). Basic characterizations such as room-temperature x-ray
diffraction, magnetization, and resistivity were carried out, and the
obtained results are in good agreement with the published data.[2, 3, 4]
This is particularly valid for the XRD results, however, since the x-ray
diffractometry is less sensitive to the lighter elements, we also
carried out powder neutron diffraction analysis on ¹¹B-enriched samples.
These measurements were carried out between 2 and 300 K at the Institut
Laue-Langevin in Grenoble, France; patterns of Li₂Pt₃B were collected
using the D1A diffractometer with a selected λ = 1.91 A while for those
of Li₂Pd₃B, the D2B diffractometer was used with λ = 1.595 A. Rietveld
refinements were carried out using the fullprof package of
Rodriguez-Carvajal (L. L. B.).

The specific heat measurements were carried out on two different types
of calorimeters. A zero-field semadiabatic calorimeter operated within
the range 400 mK < T< 20 K and having a precision of better than 4

## III Results and Analysis

### Neutron powder diffraction

The low-temperature diffractograms of both compounds are shown in
Fig. 1. The results of the refinements (see Table 1) confirm the
room-temperature structural model of Eibenstein and Jung:[4] within our
statistics and considering the temperature difference, all the
parameters (specifically position, occupation, and anisotropic thermal
parameters) are almost equal to the reported ones.[4] For the particular
case of Li₂Pt₃B, the a parameter is 6.7465(1) A at 300 K while 6.7345(1)
A at 2 K: only a 0.18

The position parameters of Li and Pt/Pd atoms that are not fixed by
symmetry are very similar to those of Eibenstein and Jung[4] (see
Table 1) and, in addition, they do not show any noticeable variation on
going from 300 down to 2 K. Based on these and the above-mentioned
findings, it is inferred that the basic room-temperature structural
features remains unaltered. Specifically, the Li-Li distance is hardly
modified on lowering the temperature; as a consequence the charge
transfer to the T/B network, if solely governed by Li-Li distance, is
unaffected by such temperature variations.

### Specific heat

The specific heat of Li₂Pd₃B is shown in Fig. 2. Its normal state
properties were achieved after quenching the superconductivity in a
magnetic field of 70 kOe (>H_(c2)).[1] Under such a condition, the
normal-state specific heat is adequately described by a superposition of
a Sommerfeld (γ_T_) and Debye (β_T_³) term: in a region of 2 K < T< 5 K,
the normal-state coefficients are γ=9.0(1) mJ/mol K² and β=1.08(1)
mJ/mol K⁴.

The zero-field specific heat of Li₂Pt₃B is shown in Fig. 3. Its
normal-state specific heat was analyzed as a sum of a linear and a cubic
term; here also the analysis had been limited to the range T_(c) < T< 5
K. The fit is excellent, giving γ=7.0(1) mJ/mol K² and β=0.98(1) mJ/mol
K⁴. Assuming no (drastic) modification in the normal-state properties
due to the 70 kOe field, a comparison of γ and β of the two compounds
(see Table 2) suggests that for the case of Li₂Pd₃B, γ is almost 30

$$\gamma=\frac{2}{3}\pi^{2}k_{B}^{2}(1+\lambda)N(E_{F}).$$
(1)

As λ appears also in expressions governing the superconducting
properties of these compounds (see below), then it is possible to
evaluate separately each of N(E_(F)) and λ; in an

Figure 1: Neutron powder diffractograms of (a) Li₂Pd₃B at 3 K and (b)
Li₂Pt₃B at 2 K. For each panel, symbols represent the total measured
diffraction intensity while the solid line gives the calculated pattern.
The difference curve is shown at the bottom while the Bragg positions
are indicated as short bars. Some refined parameters are given in
Table 1. The reliability factors for Li₂Pt₃B (having, relatively, better
statistics) are R_(B)=5.5 and R_(F)=3.9.

ticipation, the enhancement of γ is due mainly to an increase in λ (see
below).

From the analysis of the specific heats at the onset of the
superconducting state (Figs. 2 and 3) and utilizing the balance of
entropy (see the inset of Fig. 3), we extracted the values of T_(c) and
ΔC/γT_(c) (the specific-heat jump at T_(c)): T_(c) of Li₂Pd₃B is 7.5(2)
K while that of Li₂Pt₃B is 2.17(5) K (both agree very well with the
reported values [1, 3]). ΔC/γT_(c) is 2.0(3) for Li₂Pd₃B while 1.39(3)
for Li₂Pt₃B: since for a standard BCS superconductor ΔC/γT_(c)=1.43, it
is evident that Li₂Pt₃B agrees quite reasonably with the weakly-coupled
BCS prediction, but Li₂Pd₃B deviates appreciably due to strong-coupling
effects (see below). It is worth mentioning that for the particular case
of Li₂Pd₃B, the large errors in ΔC/γT_(c) and T_(c) are due to an
almost-1 K-broadened-transition region, which, according to Togano _et
al._, [1] is due to the nonstoichiometry of lithium. For this reason, we
did not evaluate the thermal evolution of ΔC(T)/γT in the neighborhood
of T_(c) nor its thermal derivative at T_(c).

The analysis of the electronic specific heat within the superconducting
phase $C_{\rm es}(T)$ of Li₂Pd₃B is shown in Fig. 4 while that of
Li₂Pt₃B in Fig. 5. Evidently in both figures, $C_{\rm es}(T)$ reflects
clearly an exponential behavior, indicative of a gap character. For
Li₂Pd₃B, the solid line represents $C_{\rm es}(T)$=22γT_(c)
exp(-2.17_(c)/_T_) J/mol K while for Li₂Pt₃B, $C_{\rm es}(T)$=8.5γT_(c)
exp(-1.42T_(c)/_T_) J/mol K. It is recalled that for a weak-coupled BCS
superconductor, [10]$C_{\rm es}(T)$ =8.5γT_(c) exp(-1.44T_(c)/_T_) for
2.5<T_(c)/_T_<6, $C_{\rm es}(T)$ =26γT_(c) exp(-1.62T_(c)/_T_) for
7<T_(c)/_T_<12, and $C_{\rm es}(T)$
=3.15γT_(c)(T_(c)/_T_)${  is considered to be due to strong-coupling corrections.

Finally, the ratio \(\theta_{D,{\rm P}_{\rm i}}\sqrt{M_{\rm Pl}}/(\theta_{D,{\rm pd}}\sqrt{M_{\rm pd}}) \approx 1.4$
is 40

## IV Discussion and Conclusion

According to the above-shown specific heats, the low-temperature
normal-state electronic and thermal properties of the studied compounds
can be described, respectively, within the Sommerfeld and Debye
approximations. The range of γ indicates a conventional Fermi liquid
behavior. Further, the bulk character of their superconductivities is
clearly revealed and that the evolution of their specific heat within
the superconducting phase is indicative of a thermal activation across a
superconducting gap: for Li₂Pd₃B the conventional gapped
superconductivity is in line with the findings of Nishiyama _et al.[7]_
On checking this exponential character and the ranges of ΔC/γT_(c)
against the predictions of the renormalized BCS model, it is concluded
that Li₂Pt₃B is a weak-coupled BCS superconductor with, presumably, an
electron-phonon pairing mechanism. The characteristic (superconducting)
parameters of Li₂Pt₃B (see Table II) were evaluated based on the
BCS-type relations, namely [12, 13, 14]

[ΔC/γT_(c)]_(T_(c)) = 1.43,  2Δ₀/k_(B)T_(c) = 3.53,  and

T_(c) = (θ_(D)/1.45)exp [−(1 + λ)/(λ − μ^(*))],
(2)

where 2Δ₀ is the superconductivity gap at zero temperature and μ^(*) is
the Coulomb pseudopotential, which, according to

c c c c c c c c c c c & &
Li₂$T_{\rm J}$B & T_(c) & γ & θ_(D) & $\omega_{\rm ln}$ &
$\omega_{\rm ln}$ & 2Δ₀/T_(c) & K & $T_{c}/\omega_{\rm ln}$ & 2Δ₀/T_(c)
& K & λ & 1/eV/fru
Li₂Pd₃B & 7.5(3) & 9.0(1) & 221(1) & 2.0(3) & 110(10) & 0.068(5) &
3.94(4) & 29.6(1.0) & 1.09(7) & 0.91(4)
Li₂Pt₃B & 2.17(5) & 7.0(1) & 228(1) & 1.39(3) & - & ≈0 & 3.53 & 7.7(2) &
0.48(2) & 1.00(2)

Table 2: Normal and superconducting parameters of Li₂Pd₃B and Li₂Pt₃B.
All terms have their usual definitions. (Renormalized) BCS relations
[Eq. (2)] are used for the calculation on Li₂Pt₃B, while their
corresponding strong-coupling corrections [Eqs. (3)–(5)] are used for
the calculation on Li₂Pd₃B. Standard deviations are included for the
calculated quantities. Note that the pre-exponential factor in Eq. (2)
is θ_(D)/1.45 while that in Eq. (5) is $\omega_{\rm ln}/1.2$ (Ref.
[13]). For Li₂Pt₃B, if instead of θ_(D) we use
$\omega_{\rm ln}$≈$\omega_{\rm ln}$(Li₂Pd₃B) = 110 K, then λ is
increased by 13

Figure 4: Reduced electronic specific heat $C_{\rm es}/\gamma T_{c}$ vs
reduced temperature T_(c)/T of Li₂Pd₃B. The solid lines indicates the
calculated, normalized specific heat: $C_{\rm es}(T)/\gamma T_{c}$ = 22
exp(−2.1T_(c)/T).

Figure 5: Reduced electronic specific heat $C_{\rm es}/\gamma T_{c}$ vs
reduced temperature T_(c)/T of Li₂Pt₃B. The solid lines indicates the
calculated, normalized specific heat: $C_{\rm es}(T)/\gamma T_{c}$ = 8.5
exp(−1.42T_(c)/T). The low-temperature deviation is discussed in the
text.

Chandara _et al._,[5] can be significant in these compounds (taken here
to be 0.13).

The above quoted weak-coupling relations are found to be inadequate for
the case of Li₂Pd₃B. Considering the structural and electronic
isomorphism between these two compounds, the superconductivity of
Li₂Pd₃B is considered to be of the same character as that of Li₂Pt₃B–the
assumption of phonon mediation is in line with the arguments Refs. [6]
and [7]–but with a relatively stronger coupling constant. Indeed, its
measured superconducting properties compare favorably with the following
strong-coupling corrections (valid for
$T_{c}/\omega_{\rm log}\!\ll\!1$):[12, 13, 14]

$$\left[\Delta C/\gamma T_{c}\right]_{T_{c}}=1.43[1+53(T_{c}/\omega_{\rm log})^{2 }\ln(\omega_{\rm log}/3T_{c})],$$
(3)

$$2\Delta_{0}/k_{B}T_{c}=3.53[1+12.5(T_{c}/\omega_{\rm log})^{2}\ln(\omega_{\rm log }/2T_{c})],$$
(4) 7] M. Nishiyama, Y. Inada, and G. Q. Zheng, Phys. Rev. B **71**,
220505(R) (2005). * [8] M. Sardar and D. Sa, Physica C **411**, 120
(2004). * [9] H. Q. Yuan, D. Vandervelde, M. B. Salamon, P. Badica, and
K. Togano, cond-mat/0506771, 2005. * [10] E. S. R. Gopal, _Specific Heat
at Low Temperatures_ (Plenum, New York, 1966). * [11] T. He, Q. Huang,
A. P. Ramirez, Y. Wang, K. A. Regan, N. Rogado, M. A. Hayward, M. K.
Haas, J. S. Slusky, K. Inumara H. W. Zandbergen, N. P. Ong, R. J. Cava,
Nature (London) **411**, 54 (2001). * [12] W. L. McMillan, Phys. Rev.
**167**, 331 (1968). * [13] P. B. Allen and R. C. Dynes, Phys. Rev. B
**12**, 905 (1975). * [14] J. P. Carbotte, Rev. Mod. Phys. **62**, 1027
(1990). * [15] M. Ishikawa and E. Toth, Phys. Rev. B **3**, 1856 (1971).
