# Normal-state spin gap of Bi-based superconductors

Mao Zhiqiang, Xu Gaojie, Wang Ruiping, Wang Keqing, and Tian Mingliang

Structure Research Laboratory, University of Science and Technology of
China, Hefei, Anhui 230026, People’s Republic of China

Zhang Yuheng

Chinese Center of Advanced Science and Technology (World Laboratory),
P.O. Box 8730, Beijing, People’s Republic of China and Structure
Research Laboratory, University of Science and Technology of China,
Hefei, Anhui 230026, People’s Republic of China

###### Abstract

The thermoelectric power (TEP) S(T) and resistivity ρ(T) were measured
for underdoped and overdoped
Bi_(1.8)Pb_(0.2)Sr₂Ca_(n − 1)Cu_(n)O_(2n + 4 ⋅ δ) (_n_ = 1,2) samples
with different oxygen contents. A specific heat measurement was also
conducted for the n = 2 system. We found that S(T) exhibited a
significant enhancement below a characteristic temperature T_(g) for
these samples, as observed in underdoped samples of YBa₂Cu₉O_(7 − δ) and
YBa₂Cu₄O₈. Such an anomaly in S(T) below T_(g) suggests that an energy
gap exists in the normal states of underdoped and overdoped Bi-based
superconductors (_n_ = 1 or 2). The normal-state gap temperature (T_(g))
increases with decreasing oxygen content in both n = 1 and 2 systems. A
downturn behavior in ρ(T) with the opening of a normal-state gap was
also observed for some overdoped samples. On the other hand, the
experimental data also showed that S(T) had a positive slope at high
temperatures for the heavily overdoped samples of the n = 1 system,
while all the overdoped samples of the n = 2 system had a negative slope
in S(T) within the whole measured temperature range. This suggests that
the Bi₂O₂ layers are metallic and make a contribution to the TEP in the
heavily overdoped region of the n = 1 system, but are insulating in the
whole overdoped region of the n = 2 system. In addition, specific heat
measurements for the n = 2 system reveal that a decrease in oxygen
content results in the occurrence of phase segregation.
[S0163-1829(97)04521-9]

## I Introduction

It is known that understanding of the nature of unusual normal-state
transport properties of high-temperature superconductors (HTSC’s) is
necessary to clarify the pairing mechanism. Hence investigations on
normal-state properties have been one of the most attractive topics in
HTSC research. A wealth of experimental and theoretical work has been
published in this area. It has commonly been realized that normal-state
resistivity shows a linear behavior in temperature from T_(c) up to
hundred degrees kelvin for the optimally doped samples and a
Fermi-liquid-like behavior for overdoped samples, i.e., ρ^(∞)T^(α), with
α changing from 1 to 2. For underdoped samples, normal-state resistivity
exhibits a downturn at low temperature due to the opening of a
normal-state (NS) gap.[1] Such an anomalous transport behavior
associated with the NS gap in underdoped samples provides important
evidence for the magnetic scattering mechanism of charge carriers. The
NS gap phenomenon has attracted a lot of attention in recent years due
to its intimate relation with superconductivity.

The NS gap phenomenon was first observed in NMR and inelastic neutron
scattering measurements of YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) (Y123).[2, 3] Loram _et al._
also observed the NS gap in Y123 by means of high-precision differential
heat capacity measurements. The NS gap temperature T_(g) and energy
E_(g) determined from C_(p) are nearly consistent with that from NMR.[4]
Recently, Tallon _et al.[5]_ found that thermoelectric power (TEP) can
also probe the same gap as does the heat capacity and NMR. The TEP
becomes significantly enhanced as the NS gap opens. Besides Y123, the NS
gap behavior was also detected in other HTSC’s, such as YBa₂Cu₃O₈
(Y124),[1, 6] La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄ (La214),[7] and Tl₂Ba₂CuO_(6 + δ)[7]
From experimental results so far, it is widely believed that the NS gap
is specific to the underdoped region and the NS gap temperature
decreases with an increase in doping level, whereas the NS gap seems to
merge into the superconducting gap in the overdoped region. But whether
this type of relation of the NS gap and carrier concentration is
suitable for other superconducting compounds still remains an open
question.

For Bi-based superconductors, there are few reports on the NS gap in the
literature. Only Walstedt _et al.[8]_ observed the NS gap phenomenon in
Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O₈ by NMR. Whether the NS gap phenomenon appears in
Bi₂Sr₂CuO_(x) or not is not clear up to now. In order to clarify the NS
gap features in Bi-based superconductors, recently we have prepared
Bi_(1.8)Pb_(0.2)Sr₂Ca_(n − 1)Cu_(n)O_(2n + 4 ⋅ δ) (_n_ = 1,2) samples
with different oxygen contents and systematically investigated the NS
gap behavior of these samples by means of TEP and resistivity. Our
experimental data show that a NS gap exists well above T_(c) in both
underdoped and overdoped samples of Bi_(1.8)Pb_(0.2)Sr₂CuO_(6 + δ)
(Bi2201) and Bi_(1.8)Pb_(0.2)Sr₂CaCu₂O_(8 + δ) (Bi2212) and that the NS
gap temperature increases with decreasing oxygen content.

## II Experimental Methods

Polycrystalline samples of Bi_(1.8)Pb_(0.2)Sr₂CuO_(6 + δ) and
Bi_(1.8)Pb_(0.2)Sr₂CaCu₂O_(8 + δ) were synthesized using conventional
solid-state reaction of stoichiometric oxides and carbonate in air. Sets
of samples with different δ values were obtained by annealing the
sintered samples at various temperatures and oxygen partial pressures.
The detailed treatment conditions are listed in Table 1.
X-ray-diffraction analysis showed that the sintered samples were free of
impurity phase and that all the samples still remained single phase
after treatment under different conditions. Furthermore,
x-ray-diffraction and electron-diffraction analyses, which will be
published in a separate paper, also revealed that a progressive
structure change occurred with decreasing oxygen content in both Bi2201
and Bi2212 systems.

Resistivity was measured using a standard four-probe method in a
closed-cycle helium cryostat. The available lowest temperature for the
helium cryostat is 11 K. The TEP of the sample was measured by a
differential method.9 The temperature at the two ends of the measured
sample was controlled automatically within a precision of 0.01 K. The
emf of the sample was indicated by a Keithley 181 nanovoltmeter with an
error less than 0.2 _m_V. Calibrated by pure Pb, the error of the TEP
measurement system was smaller than 0.1 _m_V/K. For the Bi2212 series
the specific heat was also measured using a continually increasing
temperature method.10

## III Experimental Results

Figure 1 shows the temperature dependence of resistivity (_r_) for the
Bi2201 samples annealed under different conditions. The gradual increase
in resistivity from the sample A1 to E1 reflects a progressive decrease
in the oxygen content of the Bi2201 phase. The temperature dependence of
r is approximately linear within the measured temperature region (11-290
K) for samples A1 and B1, and superconductivity is not observed above 11
K in the two samples. For samples C1 and D1, superconductivity appears
at about 20 K (_T_c^onset) and the normal state _r_(_T_) exhibits a
marked downward curvature below 180 and 187 K, respectively. For sample
E1, _T_c^onset decreases to 14 K and the transport in the normal state
shows a semiconductinglike behavior.

_S_(_T_) for the Bi2201 samples annealed under different conditions is
plotted against temperature in Fig. 2. The _S_(_T_) value increases
progressively with decreasing in the oxygen content from sample A1 to
E1. Samples A1, B1, and C1 have negative values for _S_(_T_) within the
measured temperature region (90-290 K), while for samples D1 and E1,
_S_(_T_) changes sign from negative to positive around 160 and 210 K,
respectively. These five samples exhibit a common feature in the _S_-_T_
curves. Namely, _S_(_T_) becomes significantly enhanced below a certain
characteristic temperature, as observed in underdoped samples of
YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) and YBa₂Cu₄O₈.5 The characteristic temperatures are,
respectively, 120, 130, 180, 190, and 210 K for samples A1, B1, C1, D1,
and E1. Additionally, another noteworthy phenomenon is that for samples
B1 and C1 the slope of _S_(_T_) changes from positive to negative around
250 and 220 K, respectively.

The temperature dependence of ρ for the Bi2212 samples treated under
different conditions is shown in Fig. 3. The increase in normal-state
resistivity similarly reflects that the oxygen content of the Bi2212
phase decreases gradually from sample A2 to E2. The reduction in the
oxygen content of the Bi2212 phase induces a remarkable change in the
superconductivity and temperature dependence of normal-state
resistivity. Here T_(c) (midpoint in transition) is about 67, 78, 92,
80, and 81 K for samples A2, B2, C2, D2, and E2, respectively. The
temperature dependence of ρ exhibits a linear behavior for samples A2
and B2, but semiconductivity for samples D2 and E2. For sample C2 the
ρ(T) deviates downward from linearity around 190 K.

Figure 4 gives the temperature dependence of S for the Bi2212 samples
treated under different conditions. The TEP of the Bi2212 phase also
changes from negative to positive with decreasing oxygen content, as
observed in the Bi2201 system. Moreover, the steep enhancement behavior
below a certain temperature is observed as well in samples B2, C2, D2,
and E2. The characteristic temperatures at which S(T) starts to be
enhanced steeply are 150, 190, 200, and 210 K, respectively, for samples
B2, C2, D2, and E2. Compared with the Bi2201 system, a different feature
for the Bi2212 system is that the slope of S(T) does not change from
positive to negative at high temperature.

The specific heat measurement results (C/T−T) for sets of Bi2212 samples
are shown in the inset of Fig. 5. Here Δ_C_/_T_ is obtained by
subtracting $C_{\rm{Bi}}/T$ from C/T. Figure 5 gives the fitted curves
of (C−$C_{\rm{fib}})/T$. From Fig. 5, it can be seen clearly that the
phase segregation phenomenon occurs with the removal of oxygen in the
Bi2212 system. Sample A2 contains only a superconducting phase with
T_(c) of ∼ 64 K [called the lower-T_(c) phase (LTP) hereafter], while a
superconducting phase with T_(c) of ∼ 90 K [higher-T_(c) phase (HTP)]
appears besides the LTP for sample C2 and T_(c) of the LTP decreases to
∼ 60 K. For samples D2 and E2 with much less oxygen content, T_(c) of
the LTP decreases to ∼ 58 K and its volume fraction decreases markedly,
while T_(c) of the HTP still remains ∼ 90 K for sample D2, but decreases
to ∼ 87 K for sample E2. Combining with the resistivity and TEP data
shown in Figs. 3 and 4, we can deduce that a fraction of the Bi2212
phase exhibiting semiconductivity exists in the two samples besides the
LTP and HTP.

## IV Discussion

Presland _et al._[11] have also studied the influence of oxygen content
on T_(c) of the Bi2212 phase by annealing
Bi_(1.9)Pb_(0.2)Sr₂Ca_(9.8)Cu₂O_(8 + δ) at different temperatures. Their
experimental data showed that these annealed samples all resided in the
overdoped region in the phase diagram and T_(c) ranged from 64 to 92 K
[T_(c)(max)]. Our annealed samples of Bi_(1.9)Pb_(0.2)Sr₂CaCu₂O_(8 + δ)
also show a similar change in T_(c) . It is apparent that both the LTP
and HTP reside in the overdoped region in samples A2, B2 and C2, D2,
while the HTP with T_(c) of 87 K in sample E2 appears to lie in the
underdoped region. For the Bi2201 phase, it is known that an optimized
T_(c) can rise to a maximum of 25 K by the La substitution for Sr.[12]
Hence it can be thought that samples A1, B1, C1, and D1 are located in
the high-hole-concentration side of T_(c)(max), while sample E1 with a
$T_{c}^{\rm onset}$ of 14 K lies in the underdoped region. The
semiconducting behavior in resistivity for sample E1 is also likely to
arise from a phase segregation.

As mentioned above, the TEP in the normal state shows anomalies for
overdoped and underdoped samples of the Bi2201 and Bi2212 systems; i.e.,
S(T) is enhanced significantly below a certain characteristic
temperature. In accordance with the work of Tallon _et al._,[5] we can
think that such a strong enhancement in S(T) is related to the smooth
opening of a NS gap. Moreover, the downturn behavior in ρ(T) with the
opening of a NS gap is simultaneously observed in the samples of C1, D1,
and C2, and the NS gap temperature T_(g) determined from the ρ-_T_ curve
is nearly consistent with that from the TEP. These facts suggest that a
NS gap exists in both the overdoped and underdoped regions of the Bi2201
and Bi2212 systems. However, it should be noted that the ρ-_T_ curve
does not show the features associated with the NS gap opening for
samples A1, B1, E1, B2, D2, and E2 though the steep enhancement in S(T)
below T_(g) reflects the existence of a NS gap in these samples. This
implies that the TEP can reflect the modification in the NS excitation
spectrum more sensitively than the resistivity. The TEP data shown in
Figs. 2 and 4 also reveal that the T_(g) increases with decreasing
oxygen content for both Bi2201 and Bi2212 systems.

Walstedt _et al._[8] have observed the existence of a NS gap by NMR for
the 77 and 90 K superconducting phases of Bi2212, and the NS gap
temperatures for the two phases are 90 and 190 K, respectively. It is
clear that T_(g) determined from the TEP agrees well with that from NMR
for the 90 K superconducting phase. We have already pointed out that
phase segregation exists in the Bi2212 system. Obviously the HTP’s in
samples B2, C2, D2, and E2 are responsible for the observed NS gap
behavior, while T_(g) of the LTP should be smaller than 90 K.

The TEP shows a negative slope for most HTSC’s, which is characteristic
of the CuO₂ planes. The positive slope in S(T) data was observed only in
Y124 and Y123 with δ<0.19.[5, 13] The presence of a positive slope in
S(T) of the two systems arises from the contribution of the oxygenated
Cu-O chains.[5, 14] As described above, the positive slope behavior in
S(T) is also observed in samples B1 and C1, but does not appear in the
Bi2212 system. It is obvious that such a positive slope behavior in S(T)
in the Bi2201 phase should similarly be related to the transport in
non-CuO₂ planes. For Bi-based superconductors, band structure
calculations show that the Bi₂O₂ layers are metallic and play a similar
role as the Cu-O chains. However, many experiments have demonstrated
that the Bi₂O₂ layers are insulating for the Bi2212 phase. But the above
S(T) data of the Bi2201 system seem to support the results of band
structure calculations. Namely, the Bi₂O₂ layers for the heavily
overdoped Bi2201 phase are metallic and have a contribution to the TEP,
thus producing the positive slope in S(T) at high temperature. Yet it is
surprising that sample A1 with the highest doping level does not exhibit
a positive slope in S(T) within the measured temperature range. We think
the temperature at which the slope in S(T) changes from positive to
negative may be larger than 290 K.

For undoped Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O_(8 + δ) (undoped Bi2212), a series of overdoped
samples with T_(c) ranging from 60 to 90 K can be obtained as well by
varying the oxygen content. Oberttelli _et al._[14] have studied the TEP
of these overdoped samples. From their experimental data, it can be seen
that the varying behavior of S(T) with oxygen content in the undoped
Bi2212 system is nearly consistent with our results shown in Fig. 4.
This suggests that overdoped samples of the Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O_(8 + δ) system
reside in almost the same hole concentration region as the
Bi_(1.8)Pb_(0.2)Sr₂CaCu₂O_(8 + δ) system. Nevertheless, it is worthwhile
to note that the undoped Bi2212 system does not display anomalies in the
normal state S(T) and the temperature dependence of S is linear above
T_(c). This implies that a NS gap does not exist in the overdoped
samples of the undoped Bi2212 system. This is an indication that the
hole concentration is not the only factor determining the NS excitation
spectrum. It is known that Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O_(8 + δ) possesses a strong
incommensurate modulation. Onoda and Sato[15] have pointed out that a
modulation wave causes a swelling of each layer, i.e., the displacements
of Bi, Sr, and Cu in the chains which run along the c axis. Yet the Pb
substitution for Bi suppresses such an incommensurate modulation, thus
decreasing the relative displacements of Bi, Sr, and Cu atoms.[16] This
type of strong local structure distortion accompanied by incommensurate
modulation in the undoped Bi2212 phase might be responsible for the
disappearance of the NS gap. On the other hand, it is known that samples
in the overdoped and underdoped regions for the Bi2201 phase can also be
obtained by the La substitution for Sr.[12, 17, 18] But the S(T) and
resistivity data of La-doped samples did not exhibit anomalies
associated with a NS gap (see Ref. [18]). This phenomenon should
similarly be related to the microstructure characteristics. As a result,
it can be believed that the microstructure characteristic is an
important factor determining the NS excitation spectrum.

## V Conclusion

In summary, we have studied the normal-state transport properties of
underdoped and overdoped samples of
Bi_(1.8)Pb_(0.2)Sr₂Ca_(u − 1)Cu_(u)O_(2n + 4 + δ) (n = 1,2) by means of
resistivity and TEP measurements. Meanwhile, the specific heat
measurements were conducted for the n = 2 system. From these
experimental investigations and analyses, the following conclusions may
be drawn.

(1) An energy gap exists in the normal states of both underdoped and
overdoped samples of Bi_(1.8)Pb_(0.2)Sr₂CuO_(6 + δ) and
Bi_(1.8)Pb_(0.2)Sr₂CaCu₂O_(8 + δ). The NS gap temperature increases with
decreasing oxygen content in both systems.

(2) A phase segregation phenomenon appears for the Bi2212 samples
annealed at higher temperature and lower oxygen partial pressure; i.e.,
the LTP with T_(c) of ∼ 60 K, the HTP with T_(c) of ∼ 90 K, and a
fraction of Bi2212 exhibiting semiconductivity generally coexist in
these samples.

(3) The Bi₂O₂ layers are metallic and make a contribution to the TEP at
high temperatures for the heavily overdoped Bi2201 samples, but are
insulating for the Bi2212 samples with any doping level.

Furthermore, by comparing our S(T) data with that reported for the
undoped Bi2212 and La-doped Bi2201 systems, we find that the NS
excitation spectrum is intimately related to the crystal microstructure
characteristic and a strong incommensurate modulation can suppress the
opening of a NS gap.

###### Acknowledgements.

This work was supported by the National Center for Research and
Development on Superconductivity, the National Education Ministry
Foundation for Outstanding Young Teachers, and the National Foundation
for Outstanding Young Scientists. The authors would also like to
acknowledge informative discussions with Professor Zhongxian Zhao.

## References

* [1] B. Bucher _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **70**, 2012 (1993). * [2] H.
Alloul _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **63**, 1700 (1989). * [3] J.
Rossat-Mignod _et al._, Physica (Amsterdam) **169B**, 58 (1991). * [4]
J. W. Loram _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **71**, 1740 (1993). * [5] J. L.
Tallon _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **75**, 4114 (1995). * [6] T. Machi
_et al._, Physica C **185-189**, 1147 (1991). * [7] Y. Kitaoka _et al._,
Physica (Amsterdam) **185-189C**, 98 (1991). * [8] R. E. Walstedt _et
al._, Phys. Rev. B **44**, 7760 (1991). * [9] Y. Ruan _et al._, Chin. J.
Low Temp. Phys. **10**, 161 (1988). * [10] K. Q. Wang _et al._, Chin. J.
Low Temp. Phys. **18**, 339 (1996). * [11] M. R. Presland _et al._,
Physica C **176**, 95 (1991). * [12] W. A. Groen _et al._, Solid State
Commun. **72**, 697 (1989). * [13] P. J. Ouseph and M. Ray O’Bryan,
Phys. Rev. B **41**, 4123 (1990). * [14] S. D. Obertelli _et al._, Phys.
Rev. B **46**, 14 928 (1992). * [15] M. Onoda and M. Sato, Solid State
Commun. **67**, 799 (1988). * [16] O. Eibl, Physica C **168**, 215
(1990). * [17] M. Sera _et al._, Solid State Commun. **81**, 415
(1992). * [18] F. Devaux _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **41**, 8723 (1990).
