# Electron tunneling in the high-T_(c) superconductor Y-Ba-Cu-O

R. Escudero, L. Rendon, T. Akachi, R. A. Barrio, and J. Taguena-Martinez

Instituto de Investigaciones en Materiales, Universidad Nacional
Autonoma de Mexico, Apartado Postal 70-360, 04510 Mexico, Distrito
Federal, Mexico

7 May 1987

###### Abstract

Electron-tunneling measurements were performed in granular and
homogeneous samples of Y-Ba-Cu-O, taking advantage of the presence of
natural insulating barriers between grains. The results show
supercurrents, the superconducting gap, and sharp peaks that can be
related to a new mechanism for superconductivity. A phenomenological
interpretation of these results is also outlined.

The recent discovery of high-T_(c) superconductors represents not only
an unexpected technological revolution but has also attracted the
interest of scientists from a wide range of fields of basic research. In
spite of the enormous amount of data taken in the last few months,
important questions remain unanswered. In particular it is not clear
which are the basic mechanisms that produce superconductivity in these
systems. Among the ceramics that have been found to be high-T_(c)
superconductors is Y-Ba-Cu-O for which various experiments [1] and
theoretical results [2] have been reported. It is well known that
electron tunneling is a useful probe to investigate important
characteristics of the superconducting state such as the superconducting
gap, the electronic density of states, and, in some cases, the
electron-phonon coupling, the electron-electron interaction, and the
phonon structure through the McMillan procedure. [3]

There have been tunneling results in Y-Ba-Cu-O (Ref. 4) using
point-contact junctions, resulting in very noisy spectra. In this paper
we report tunneling measurements performed in granular samples,
fabricated in our laboratory, taking advantage of the fact that the
superconducting grains are imbedded in an insulating matrix and coupled
through Josephson interactions in a natural way when the Josephson
coupling energy exceeds the thermal energy (k_(B)T). Therefore, by
changing the temperature one can couple the superconducting grains at
will. The results reported here show very clear features that provide
unquestionable quantitative characteristics of this superconducting
state that contribute toward a better basic knowledge of the mechanisms
responsible for high-T_(c) superconductors.

Samples were prepared by mixing high-purity powders of CuO, BaCO₃, and
Y₂O₃ with a nominal composition given by the formula
(Y_(1 − x)Ba_(x))₂CuO_(4 − x). The correct proportion of oxygen was
obtained by the usual calcination and sintering processes. [1]

By varying x from 0.37 to 0.4 one finds that the R vs T characteristics
of the samples change dramatically. In Fig. 1 two types of samples are
shown. Curve a corresponding to x = 0.37, shows a large difference
between the onset and critical temperatures, which we shall call a
granular sample, and curve b, corresponding to x = 0.4, shows a more
stepped transition, and we shall call it a homogeneous sample.

The reasons by which the samples are called granular and homogeneous,
respectively, although strictly speaking, both are in a granular state,
are that the R vs T curves show changes in the onset temperature for
superconductivity and electrical resistance variations which resemble
the description of a granular state in a percolation model. [5] In the
optimized Y₁Ba₂Cu₃O_(7 − x) samples the superconducting phase
overwhelmingly occupies most of the volume and, therefore, one surpasses
the percolation limit, and the sample shows an abrupt fall of resistance
at ∼90 K. In the sample with x = 0.4, it should be relatively easy to
form the superconducting phase, while in the samples with x = 0.37 the
nonsuperconducting phase should be more abundant.

The experimental setup differs from the conventional one in that there
is not one artificially created barrier but a distribution of barriers
between grains and, therefore, some anisotropy is expected, due to the
privileged direction in the sintering process. The samples were sintered

Figure 1: Resistance vs temperature plots. Curve a is for a granular
sample of Y-Ba-Cu-O, and curve b is for a homogenous sample of
Y-Ba-Cu-O.

disks with two flat faces. Therefore, the four contacts for the
measurements can be made in the same flat face of the disk or in pairs
in opposite faces of the disk. The differences detected in the two
geometries will be shown below. The tunneling experiments were performed
at T = 10.3 K, using the conventional modulation technique,6 that
consists in injecting a modulated current (1000 Hz) and a polarization
voltage from 0 to 800 mV and detecting the differential resistance
(_dV_/_dI_) with a lock-in amplifier and a resistance bridge.

Figure 2(a) shows the _dV_/_dI_ characteristic from the granular sample
in which the current and voltage were measured along one flat face of
the disk. One notices the absence of noise that allows a clear
identification of several features. (1) There is the appearance of a
small superconducting current at zero voltage. (2) The asymmetric
behavior with respect to the bias in agreement with previous results.4
(3) The size of the energy gap (2D), which is difficult to determine,
but roughly lies between 60 and 100 meV. (4) There are sharp peaks, also
asymmetric, that, at positive bias, are found at 520, 360, and less
clearly at 210 meV. Apparently similar features, although less well
defined, attributed to phonons, have been recently found by Tanner.7

Figure 2(b) was taken from the same granular sample in identical
conditions, except that the current and voltage were measured in the
perpendicular direction of the disk faces. Again, a supercurrent at zero
voltage and the asymmetric behavior are apparent, but the curve is much
noisier than the previous one, although there is a hint of the same
sharp peaks. The appearance of noise is attributed to the anisotropy in
the distribution of grains.

For the sake of comparison, a similar measurement was performed in the
homogeneous sample and the curve is shown in Fig. 2(c), in which it is
clearly seen that tunneling is suppressed, since the grains are supposed
to be touching. In this case the differential resistance was < 1 O, much
smaller than in the tunneling junction ( 270 O) in the gap region. There
is an anomaly around zero voltage due to a small supercurrent, driven
out of zero voltage by thermal fluctuations. This result reinforces the
initial assumption of granular structure in the former sample. This
behavior is the usual one in superconducting microbridges. There is a
hint of decoration in this curve that is possibly related to subharmonic
gap structure and nonequilibrium superconductivity processes,8 but these
are out of the scope of this communication.

A first attempt to interpret these experimental results could be made
within the BCS framework. One immediately encounters difficulties.
First, the ratio 2D/_k__B__Tc_ calculated from the onset critical
temperature is between 7 and 13, far too large for the Eliashberg
equations to hold.9 Second, although it is hard to envisage the presence
of high-energy optical phonons, one could overlook this conceptual
difficulty based on the existence of high-energy phonons in other
oxides,10 and estimate the critical temperature from the equations,
appropriate for systems with Einstein peaks,11 assuming that the sharp
features in Fig. 2(a) derive from high-energy phonons responsible for
superconductivity. A reasonable value of the electron-phonon coupling
λ = 1.7 was estimated from the energy bands,2 the Coulomb interaction
_U_* was maximized (0.2), α(ω) was assumed to be 1, and the phonon
distribution _F_(_o_) taken as a delta function at the experimental
energy. With these assumptions, the critical temperature obtained was 34
K, exceedingly low with respect to the measured one (see Fig. 1).

It is worthwhile pointing out that the role of dimensionality is not
included in the BCS theory and, as it is generally agreed that the
superconducting state occurs in two dimensions in these high-_T__c_
materials, the arguments above should not be taken as a proof of the
failure of the BCS theory.

However, there is an alternative explanation of the origin of the
high-energy peaks that no doubt are related to the appearance of
superconductivity. A basic ingredient for the occurrence of
superconductivity is the electron pairing from the attraction through
the lattice. Phonons are not the only excitations that could produce
this phenomenon; it has been suggested in a recent paper12 that a
possible source of negative U systems is a polarization caused in the
lattice by charged localized impurities.

Figure 2: Differential resistance (_dV_/_dI_) measured at 10.3 K, (a)
from a granular sample of Y-Ba-Cu-O in the direction parallel to the
disk faces, (b) from the same granular sample as (a) but in the
direction perpendicular to the disk faces, and (c) from a homogeneous
sample of Y-Ba-Cu-O in the same conditions as (a).

These polarization effects could account for the dramatic decrease of
the effective U (U^(*)) in semiconductors such as dangling bonds in
silicon. The presence of flat bands due to the oxygen lone pairs,
perpendicular to the Cu-O planes[2] in these materials could play the
role of charged states that polarize the lattice. A simple calculation
using a two-band impurity model shows that U^(*) = U − 2K where K is the
polarization energy induced in the medium by a point charge and could be
estimated.[13] Using reasonable values of the dielectric and geometrical
parameters in these materials, it was found that the excitations due to
this polarization mechanism are of the order of 0.6 eV, in agreement
with the experimental features in Fig. 2(a). Polarization is also
important in the case of transition-metal impurities in MgO. This
picture is not alien to the old idea of bipolaronic
superconductivity[14] and shares with other theories[15] the point of
view that low dimensionality can lead to peculiar interactions between
electrons and that phonons could not be of primary importance in this
sort of superconductivity.

The important results in this paper are the following. (1) A
superconducting current was clearly observed for the first time, (2)
very sharply defined structures that yield information of the
excitations coupled to the electrons are reported. (3) Clear evidence
that the mechanism for superconductivity in these materials differs
considerably from the conventional BCS theory is given.

This paper poses important questions to be tested by other experiments
that could confirm our hypothesis, these being currently in progress.

We are grateful to our colleagues L. Banos, C. Vazquez, J. Heiras, F.
Estrada, G. Gonzalez, F. Morales, and D. Mendoza for their enthusiasm
and collaboration. We are also grateful to Professor J. B. Goodenough,
Dr. Fred Mueller, and Professor K. H. Benneman for enlightening
discussions.

## References

* [1] M. K. Wu _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **58**, 908 (1987); P. H. Hor
_et al._, _ibid._**58**, 911 (1987); Koichi Kitazawa _et al._, Jpn. J.
Appl. Phys. (to be published); H. Steinfink _et al._, J. Am. Cryst. Soc.
(to be published); R. Beyers _et al._, Appl. Phys. Lett. (to be
published). * [2] L. F. Mattheiss and D. R. Hamann, Solid State Commun.
(to be published). * [3] W. L. McMillan, Phys. Rev. **167**, 331
(1968). * [4] D. P. E. Smith _et al._ (unpublished). * [5] G. Deutscher,
O. Entin-Wohlman, S. Fishman, and Y. Shapira, Phys. Rev. B **21**, 5041
(1980). * [6] J. G. Adler, T. T. Chen, and J. Strauss, Rev. Sci.
Instrum. **42**, 362 (1971). * [7] D. B. Tanner (private
communication). * [8] R. Escudero and H. J. T. Smith, Phys. Rev. B
**31**, 2725 (1985). * [9] R. D. Parks, _Superconductivity_ (Dekker, New
York, 1969), Vol. 1. * [10] D. I eV in MgO, K. H. Benneman (private
communication). * [11] P. B. Allen and R. C. Dynes, Phys. Rev. B **12**,
905 (1985). * [12] W. Beall Fowler and R. J. Elliott, Phys. Rev. B
**34**, 5525 (1986). * [13] A. M. Stoneham and M. J. L. Sangster,
Philos. Mag. B **43**, 609 (1981). * [14] B. K. Chakraverty and J.
Ranninger, Philos. Mag. B **52**, 669 (1985). * [15] P. W. Anderson,
Science **235**, 1196 (1987).
