# Composition and field-tuned magnetism and superconductivity in Nd1-x
Ce2CoIn5

Rongwei Hu

Condensed Matter Physics, Brookhaven National Laboratory, Upton, New
York 11973-5000, USA

Y. Lee

Physics Department, Brown University, Providence, Rhode Island 02912,
USA

J. Hudis

Department of Earth System Sciences, Yonsei University, Seoul 120749,
Republic of Korea

V. F. Mitrovic

Physics Department, Brown University, Providence, Rhode Island 02912,
USA

C. Petrovic

Condensed Matter Physics, Brookhaven National Laboratory, Upton, New
York 11973-5000, USA

###### Abstract

The Nd1-x Ce2CoIn5 alloys evolve from local moment magnetism (_x_=0) to
heavy fermion superconductivity (_x_=1). Magnetic order is observed over
a broad range of x. For a substantial range of x (0.83 <= x <= 0.95) in
the temperature-composition phase diagram we find that superconductivity
may coexist with spin-density wave magnetic order at the Fermi surface.
We show that a delicate balance betwen superconducting and magnetic
instabilities can be reversibly tuned by both the Ce/Nd ratio and
magnetic field, offering a unique model electronic system.

pacs: DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.77.165129 + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL
REVIEW B **77**, 165129 (2008)

## I Introduction

In contrast to simple metals such as Pb, phase diagrams of
unconventional superconductors often show a multitude of electronic
phases of matter. In particular, magnetic order is ubiquitous in cuprate
oxides and heavy fermion superconductor (HFSC) phase diagrams alike, as
well as in some ruthenates and cobaltates. The proximity, competition,
or coexistence of two distinct types of electronic order at the Fermi
surface raised speculations that their driving mechanisms could be
closely related. [1, 2] Exotic superconductivity in heavy fermion
materials [3] usually appears near the quantum critical point [4] where
the magnetic ordering temperature is tuned to _T_=0 by a variety of
external parameters. For example annealing, composition or magnetic
field. [5] However, the most frequently used tuning parameter in HFSC is
pressure. [6] This is in variance with the cuprate family where the
interplay of superconductivity and magnetism is balanced by adjusting
the in plane charge density of the CuO₂ layers. The discovery of
pressure-induced superconductivity in CeIn3 (Ref. [7]) stimulated
exploratory synthesis of AuCu₃ superstructures by Fisk, where the
magnetic entropy might be further suppressed by crystallographic
arguments. [8] Indeed, superconductivity in CeRhIn₅, [9] and CeIrIn₅,
[10] was soon discovered, as well as the coexistence of heavy fermion
superconductivity and magnetism in CeRh_(1 − x)Ir_(x)In₅. [11, 12]
CeCoIn₅, [13] the _primo_ compound in the 115 family of HFSC, has also
been recently hole doped to an antiferromagnetic ground state by Cd
substitution on the In (1) site. [14] Despite a few examples of
structurally tuned superconductivity in HFSC, the lack of a predictive
theory suggests that there is still no clear understanding of how the
delicate interplay of various degrees of freedom in these materials
stabilizes superconducting, or a magnetic ground state.

The large quasiparticle mass enhancement in CeCoIn₅ is reflected in two
large nearly cylindrical pieces of the Fermi surface and smaller 3D hole
pockets. [15] Due to the pronounced k̃-space inhomogeneity, hybridization
of the 3d electrons of Co with the 5p electrons of In results in a small
density of states at the Fermi energy, implying partially quasi-2D
electronic structure. [16] By exploring a well defined nonhybridizing
local moment such as Nd, we were able to continuously tune the coupling
in the lattice and consequently quasiparticle mass enhancement between
4f ions and conduction electrons. As a result, we have obtained a rich
phase diagram. The magnetic ground state in Nd1-x Ce2CoIn5 smoothly
evolves from local moment magnetism (LMM) on the Nd-rich side to HFSC on
the Ce-rich side. Superconductivity coexists with other forms of
electronic order, most likely magnetic in nature, in samples for Nd
concentrations between _x_=0.78 and _x_=0.98. We demonstrate that the
delicate balance between coexisting ordered states can be smoothly tuned
by magnetic fields near the magnetic-superconducting boundary.

## II Methods

Single crystals of Nd1-x Ce2CoIn5 were grown from an excess In flux.
Magnetic susceptibility, specific heat and resistivity measurements were
performed in a Quantum Design MPMS XL 5 and PPMS-9 instruments,
respectively. Single crystals were thoroughly ground to a fine powder
for structural measurements. High resolution synchrotron powder x-ray
patterns were taken at beamline X7A of National Synchrotron Light Source
at Brookhaven National Laboratory. Monochromatic synchrotron x-ray and
gas-proportional position-sensitive detector were used to measure the
powder diffraction data. Rietveld refinements were performed using GSAS.
[17] The samples were manually aligned to measure the magnetization,
heat capacity, or resistivity for fields applied along the appropriate
axis. _M_/_H_ polycrystalline averages were calculated as
χ(T)=[2χ_(ab)(T) + χ_(c)(T)/3] and were used to obtain the high
temperature effective moments. Temperature dependent magnetic
susceptibility was used to estimate the relative ratio of Ce/Nd ions. At
high temperatures ranging from 150 K to 350 K, _H_/_M_ curves were fit
with Curie-Weiss (CW) law, χ(T)=_C_/(_T_-Th), where C is the Curie
constant and Th is the Weiss temperature. Electrical contacts for
in-plane resistivity measurements were made with Epotek-H20E silver
epoxy on thin platelike crystals whose dimensions were measured by
optical microscope with 10 _m_m resolution. The samples were previously
etched in diluted HCl for several hours and thoroughly rinsed in ethanol
in order to remove excess In.

## III Structural characterization and phase purity

Since both NdCoIn₅ and CeCoIn₅ are grown using identical temperature
profiles and an identical ratio of starting materials Nd (Ce), Co and
In, [13, 18] one would expect a smooth change in the lattice parameters
in the Nd_(1 − x)Ce_(x)CoIn₅ alloy series.

Indeed, this is confirmed by high resolution structural measurements
which showed that the samples crystallized in tetragonal HoCoGa₅
structure without any additional peaks introduced by Ce alloying (Fig.
1). Selected regions of the powder x-ray spectra showed monotonic
evolution and uniform sharpness independent of x for both [111] and
[003] peaks. This implies that Ce uniformly substitutes Nd with the
increase in x and that our samples are indeed alloys rather than a
mixture of intergrown compounds NdCoIn₅ and CeCoIn₅. The lattice
parameters increase smoothly with Ce substitution in accordance with
Vegard’s law [Fig. 2(b)].

Magnetic susceptibility measurements did not detect magnetically ordered
second phases, such as NdIn₃ or CeIn₃ (Fig. 3). The cubic compounds
CeIn₃ and NdIn₃ order antiferromagnetically at 10 and 6.3 K,
respectively. [7, 19] Magnetic ordering in NdCoIn₅ is depressed smoothly
with the increase in Ce, and we were able to follow the characteristic
peak in M/H (signature of the onset of the magnetic order) down to
lowest temperature of our magnetic measurement, T = 1.8 K for x=0.6.
Curie-Weiss analysis of polycrystalline magnetic susceptibility average
at high temperatures showed at most a 4

## IV Results

M/H data of Nd_(1 − x)Ce_(x)CoIn₅ alloy series show substantial
anisotropy (Fig. 3) at low temperatures and signature of magnetic order
at T_(N)=9 K. For field applied along the â-axis, H∥â, the magnetic
transition is rather broad. On the other hand, for H∥ĉ, the transition
is relatively sharp implying complex magnetic order.

The thermodynamic properties of Nd_(1 − x)Ce_(x)CoIn₅ are shown in Fig.
4. The magnetic ordering temperature in NdCoIn₅ is smoothly depressed
from T_(N)=9 K with increased Ce concentration to 2.0 K by x=0.6 where
($C-C_{\rm latt}$)/T shows a broad peak [Fig. 4(a)]. Interestingly, the
magnetic ordering transition becomes sharper as x is further tuned
toward the superconducting boundary for x=0.7. At x≥0.78
superconductivity emerges. With increasing x, the T̂_(C) increases to the
bulk T_(C)=2.3 K of CeCoIn₅. The magnetic entropy released upon
emergence of LMM [Fig. 4(a), inset] scales with Nd concentration up to
x=0.4, implying that Ce ions do not play a direct part in the formation
of the LMM ground state. In the HFSC state for 0.78≤x≤ 1, the magnetic
entropy at 5 K is essentially invariant to changes in the Ce/Nd ratio.
However, a hallmark of heavy fermion magnetism is observed for x≥ 0.5.
This can be seen in the example of x=0.6 where only approximately ∼0.2
Rln 2 is released below the magnetic ordering transition at 2 K. In the
superconducting region at the Ce-rich side [Fig. 4(b)] addi

Figure 2: (Color online) Selected regions of the synchrotron powder
x-ray diffraction data for Nd_(1 − x)Ce_(x)CoIn₅. Both [111] and [003]
peaks shift uniformly with Ce substitution. (b) Tetragonal lattice
parameters â (red symbols) and ĉ (blue symbols)

Figure 1: (Color online) Synchrotron powder x-ray diffraction data of
Nd_(0.2)Ce_(0.8)CoIn₅. For all x, only the HoCoGa₅ structure was
detected, in addition to several small peaks of pure In from the flux.

tional thermodynamic anomalies A, B and C emerge in (_C_ - _C_lat)/_T_
below the superconducting transition T_(C) for x = 0.95, x = 0.9, but
above T_(C) for x = 0.83.

By examining electronic transport we obtain further evidence for the
presence of distinct types of electronic matter in the phase diagram.
Temperature dependent electrical resistivities normalized to their value
at 300 K [Figs. 5(a) and 5(b)] show a rather small loss of spin disorder
scattering below Neel temperature in NdCoIn₅. This is consistent with
the LMM-type of order in rare earth intermetallic compounds where local
moments do not become part of Fermi surface upon cooling. By x = 0.5 the
electronic scattering strongly increases due to a single ion Kondo-type
interaction and a logarithmic contribution of hybridizing Ce³⁺ ions
submerged in the Fermi sea. Eventually for x ≥ 0.5, a broad coherence
peak develops in the lattice. This marks the emergence of an additional
Kondo energy scale arising from the coherence in the heavy fermion
lattice. As expected, the coherence temperature _T__C__C_OH increases
with the increase in Ce³⁺ ions. Looking from the Ce-rich side, the onset
of the superconducting transition in CeCoIn₅ is depressed to 0.9 K and
magnetic scattering increases by x = 0.83 [Fig. 4(b)].

## V Discussion

Heat capacity in the HFSC state for x ≤ 0.95 reveals two thermodynamic
anomalies. Only one (_C_ - _C_lat)/_T_ discontinuity, though,
corresponds to the superconducting transition [Fig. 4(b)]. One possible
explanation for this would involve sample inhomogeneity and a
distribution of the doping concentration. This, however, is very
unlikely due to the low residual resistivity, the clean high resolution
synchrotron powder x-ray diffraction pattern with uniform sharpness of

Figure 4: (Color online) (a) Thermodynamic properties of
Nd_(1 − x)Ce_(x)CoIn₅. Specific heat of LaCoIn₅ was taken as the
estimate of the lattice specific heat _C_lat. Magnetic entropy (inset)
obtained from integral (_C_ −_C_lat)/_T_ in the same temperature range.
(b) Thermodynamic and transport properties in the superconducting state,
measured on the same sample for each Ce concentration x minus the
lattice. The lattice resistivity was estimated by taking values of
electrical resistivity of LaCoIn₅. With a decrease in the Ce/Nd ratio,
the superconducting temperature T_(C) is suppressed. The additional
thermodynamic anomaly increases in temperature (_A_ → B → _C_), as seen
in the heat capacity data (full symbols). In-plane resistivity data
(open symbols) are shown to identify superconducting transition.

Figure 3: (Color online) Magnetic properties of Nd_(1 − x)Ce_(x)CoIn₅
alloy series in 1 kOe for (a) H ↑  ↑ ↓ and (b) H ↑  ↑ ↓ axis. Magnetic
susceptibility shows decrease with Ce substitution, with easy axis along
the crystalline ĉ axis. The characteristic signature of
antiferromagnetic order is observed down to x = 0.6 above T = 1.8 K for
_×C_(_T_). The smooth evolution of _×C_(_T_) with x could indicate that
magnetic fluctuation spectrum along the ĉ axis is more relevant for
tuning of the ground state.

peaks for the whole range of x, and the compositional dependence of
lattice parameters â and b̂ in accordance with Vegard’s law (Fig. 1).
Furthermore, one would expect the highest degree of metallurgical
disorder around the middle of the doping range, for x=0.5, and not near
the Ce end. Finally, in superconducting materials with _metallic_ type
of bonding, metallurgical inhomogeneity would shift the bulk T_(C) of
the _whole_ sample, not only a fraction of the sample. For example, in
CeCu_(2.2)Si₂ this is indeed seen in high resolution studies of the
local structure.[20] Moreover, as seen in the heat capacity data for
x=0.1, the two thermodynamic anomalies are comparable in size. Thus,
secondary phases would have been easily detected in the analysis of
powder x-ray spectra. Furthermore, as will be evident in Fig. 6, the
smooth evolution of T_(C)(x) and T_(M)(x) argues against real space
inhomogeneity. Our results imply that magnetic and superconducting
phases coexist in the phase diagram, similarly to the situation in
Cd-doping of CeCoIn₅.[14]

An alternative explanation involves two superconducting energy scales on
different parts of the Fermi surface and negligible interband
scattering. This could explain low temperature anomalies A and B for
x=0.95 and x=0.9 since zero resistivity is achieved at the high
temperature transition and is maintained through the low temperature
transition. However, this scenario cannot explain thermodynamic anomaly
C above the superconducting transition in Nd_(0.17)Ce_(0.83)CoIn₅ [Fig.
4(b)]. We speculate that low temperature discontinuities A and B, high
temperature discontinuity C as well as sharp transition in
$[C-C_{\rm latt}]/T$ [Fig. 4(a)] for x=0.7 may be connected with some
form of Fermi surface instability appearing concurrently on a different
part of the Fermi surface. In what follows we show that this instability
as well as the boundary between superconductivity and magnetism can be
tuned by a magnetic field, in addition to composition x. Application of
magnetic field reverses remarkable behavior seen with progressive
decrease in the Ce/Nd ratio, tuning the boundary between the two ordered
states.

The magnetic field depresses both T_(C) and B in Nd_(0.9)Ce_(0.1)CoIn₅
(Fig. 7). The suppression is rather anisotropic. For a field applied
along the ĉ-axis superconducting anomaly in heat capacity and
increasingly broad resistivity transition are suppressed to 0.5 K in 40
kOe. The anomaly B is observed only below 10 kOe, merging into a single
thermodynamic transition for higher fields above 0.4 K, the lowest
temperature of our measurement. On the other hand, for a field applied
along â-axis both thermodynamic anomalies show quite different field
dependence. Superconducting T_(C) at 30 kOe, which is defined by the
simultaneous onset of zero resistivity and the start of the heat
capacity anomaly, is suppressed at 1.4 K. The anomaly B is observed
below the T_(C), just as we observe in H=50 kOe. In contrast to H=0 and
H=30 kOe, zero resistivity in H=50 kOe corresponds to midpoint, rather
than the onset of the heat capacity anomaly. In H=70 kOe,
Nd_(0.1)Ce_(0.9)CoIn₅ electronic matter becomes equivalent to the x=0.83
sample at H=0 kOe: the main heat capacity transition is now above
superconductivity. Electronic scattering for field applied in tetragonal
plane [Fig. 3(b)] first increases and then decreases in the normal state
as the magnetic field is tuned through H_(C)=50 kOe. The resistivity
transition in H≥H_(C) is sharper implying a magnetic field induced phase
transition for H↑↑↓-axis. The size of the superconducting anomaly in
$(C-C_{\rm latt})$ decreases in field relative to the size of additional
thermodynamic anomaly B below T_(C) at H=0 for field applied along both
crystalline axes. There is no loss of spin disorder scattering at the
main heat capacity transition T_(M) for both x=0.1 samples in H =70 kOe
[Fig. 7(b)] and for x=0.83 sample in H=0 [Fig.

Figure 5: (Color online) Results of resistivity measurements on
Nd_(1 − x)Ce_(x)CoIn₅ with current parallel to the [100]. (a)
Resistivity curves normalized to their value at 300 K. (b) Magnetic
contribution to the electrical resistivity (ρ−$\nu_{\rm lattice}$). The
lattice resistivity was estimated by taking values of electrical
resistivity for LaCoIn₅.

Figure 6: (Color online) Phase diagram of Nd_(1 − x)Ce_(x)CoIn₅ at H =0:
superconducting T_(C) (blue symbols), antiferromagnetic Neel temperature
(red symbols), coherence temperature of the Kondo anomaly in heat
capacity and increasingly broad resistivity thermodynamic anomaly in C/T
(below T_(C)) where resistivity shows small upturn (above T_(C) and for
x=0.7 at H=0). The local moment antiferromagnetism of NdCoIn₅ smoothly
changes to heavy fermion antiferromagnetic state around x=0.5. Magnetism
and superconductivity meet around x=0.8. The Neel ordering temperature
monotonically decreases for 0≤x≤0.6. For x≥0.7 heat capacity anomaly
most likely corresponds to spin density wave type of magnetic order,
deep in the superconducting state.

4(b)]. Instead, a very small upturn is observed in Fig. 4(b) (_x_ =
0.83, H = 0) and in Fig. 7(b) (_x_ = 0.1, H = 70 kOe) in resistivity
(denoted by orange diamonds), a signature of the partial gapping of the
Fermi surface. This is reminiscent of an itinerant spin-density-wave
type-transition based on Fermi-surface nesting in a heavy-electron band
observed in Ce(Ru0.8sRh0.1s)2Si2.

It appears that Nd1-xCeCoIn5 can support multiple electronic ordering
states simultaneously. The coexistence of magnetism in superconductivity
in Ce 115 superconductors has been induced by pressure in CeRhIn5 or by
composition in CeRh1-IrIrIn5. CeCo(In1-xGd)5, and CeRh1-xCoIn5. [9, 11,
14, 22] The low temperature specific heat and resistivity data taken in
Nd0.1Ce0.9CoIn5 at H = 0 and in Nd0.17Ce0.8sCoIn5 at H = 70 kOe imply
that _T_C and _T_M involve instabilities at different parts of the Fermi
surface. The balance between these states is tuned only by degree of
hybridization in the Kondo lattice (Ce/Nd ratio) and by magnetic field.
Although the presence of additional magnetic transition made it
difficult to estimate accurate values for the electronic heat capacity
coefficient g, by taking g = [_C_ - _C_alt(_T_)]/_T_ above _T_C, we
observe that the large jump at ambient pressure in the specific heat of
CeCoIn5 ΔC/C(T_(C)) = 4.35 is reduced as more Nd enters into the matrix.
For x = 0.98 we observe D_C_/_C_(_T_C_) = 3.79 and by x = 0.1 this ratio
decreases to 1.76. Nevertheless, our results may indicate a general
trend that increased Nd concentration decreases electron-boson coupling
strength. [23]

In the standard paradigm, the suppression of heavy fermion
antiferromagnetic order leads to superconductivity around the quantum
critical point. [24, 25] One aspect of the reduced Ce/Nd ratio in the
lattice is a negative pressure. Using the bulk modulus of CeCoIn5 B = 76
GPa, [26] we estimate that a rigid shift of the lattice parameters for x
= 0.83 and x = 0.9 corresponds to 0.03 GPa of applied pressure. Given
that D_T_C = 0.9 K (50

It would be instructive to compare our results with the reported
coexistence of superconductivity and magnetism in CeRhIn5 under high
pressure and to field-induced magnetic order in the superconducting
state of La1.9Sr0.1CuO4. [28, 29, 30] In both materials, as well as in
CeCoIn5, there are nodes in the superconducting gap. Delicate balance
between antiferromagnetic and superconducting coupling near a quantum
phase transition is smoothly tuned by magnetic field, which generates
field-induced vortices that suppress superconductivity and enhance
magnetic correlations. [31, 32] In addition to this, Nd1-xCeCoIn5
suppression of d-wave superconductivity is certainly influenced by
disorder, as seen in the large increase in residual resistivity (Fig.
5). [33]

The evolution of superconducting _T_C(_x_) with the increase in Nd is
similar to Ce1-,La2CuIn3. [34, 35] This is consistent with dominant
potential scattering and insensitivity of _T_C to magnetic configuration
of the rare earth ion, as observed in Ce1-_x_R_S_CoIn5. [36]

## VI Conclusion

In conclusion, we have reported on Nd substitution in CeCoIn5. Nd
substitution results in the rich phase diagram, controlled apparently
only by Ce/Nd ratio, i.e., by the level of 4f-conduction electron
coupling. The ground state of this alloy series evolves from LMM to HFSC
state via magnetically ordered heavy fermion ground state. A small
concentration of Nd (5

Figure 7: (Color online) Thermodynamic and transport properties near
magnetic-superconducting boundary, x = 0.1, for H ↑↑â-axis (a) and
_H_↑↑â-axis (b). For each x, _C_/_T_ and _ρ_ data were taken from the
same sample. The crossover from positive to negative magnetoresistance
for _H_↑↑â-axis suggests different nature of critical magnetic
fluctuations below _H__(C)= 50 kOe and above _H__(C). Superconducting
transition _T_C corresponds to thermodynamic anomaly at higher
temperature (below _H__(C)) and at lower temperature (above _H__(C)) for
_H_↑↑â-axis. A small feature in resistivity around 1 K for H = 70 kOe
could indicate opening of the partial gap at the Fermi surface in higher
fields.

model electronic system with a rich interplay of superconductivity and
magnetism comparable to high-T_(C) cuprate oxide superconductors.

###### Acknowledgements.

We thank R. Prozorov, S. L. Bud’ko, P. C. Canfield, Johnpierre Paglione
and Myron Strongin for useful communication. This work was carried out
at the Brookhaven National Laboratory, which is operated for the U.S.
Department of Energy by Brookhaven Science Associates (Contract No.
DE-Ac02-98CH10886). This work was supported by the Office of Basic
Energy Sciences of the U.S. Department of Energy.

## References

* [1] Z. Fisk and D. Pines, Nature (London) **394**, 22 (1998). * [2] E.
Demler, W. Hanke, and S. C. Zhang, Rev. Mod. Phys. **76**, 909 (2004). *
[3] Z. Fisk, D. W. Hess, C. J. Pethick, D. Pines, J. L. Smith, J. D.
Thompson, and J. O. Willis, Science **239**, 33 (1988). * [4] T.
Senthil, A. Vishwanath, L. Balents, S. Sachdev, and M. P. A. Fisher,
Science **303**, 1490 (2004). * [5] O. Trovarelli, M. Weiden, R.
Muller-Reisener, M. Gomez-Berisso, P. Gegenwart, M. Deppe, C. Geibel, J.
G. Sereni, and F. Steglich, Phys. Rev. B **56**, 678 (1997). * [6] H. Q.
Yuan, F. M. Grosche, M. Deppe, C. Geibel, G. Sparn, and F. Steglich,
Science **302**, 2104 (2003). * [7] N. D. Mathur, F. M. Grosche, S. R.
Julian, I. R. Walker, D. M. Freye, R. K. W. Haselwimmer, and G. G.
Lonzarich, Nature (London) **394**, 39 (1988). * [8] Z. Fisk and G.
Aeppli, Science **260**, 38 (1993). * [9] H. Hegger, C. Petrovic, E. G.
Moshopoulou, M. F. Hundley, J. L. Sarrao, Z. Fisk, and J. D. Thompson,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **84**, 4986 (2000). * [10] C. Petrovic, R. Movshovich,
M. Jaime, P. G. Pagliuso, M. F. Hundley, J. L. Sarrao, Z. Fisk, and J.
D. Thompson, Europhys. Lett. **53**, 354 (2001). * [11] P. G. Pagliuso,
C. Petrovic, R. Movshovich, D. Hall, M. F. Hundley, J. L. Sarrao, J. D.
Thompson, and Z. Fisk, Phys. Rev. B **64**, 100503(R) (2001). * [12] A.
Llobet, A. D. Christianson, Wei Bao, J. S. Gardner, I. P. Swainson, J.
W. Lynn, J.-M. Mignot, K. Prokes, P. G. Pagliuso, N. O. Moreno, J. L.
Sarrao, J. D. Thompson, and A. H. Lacerda, Phys. Rev. Lett. **95**,
217002 (2005). * [13] C. Petrovic, P. G. Pagliuso, M. F. Hundley, R.
Movshovich, J. L. Sarrao, J. D. Thompson, Z. Fisk, and P. Monthoux, J.
Phys.: Condens. Matter **13**, L337 (2001). * [14] L. D. Pham, T. Park,
S. Maquilon, J. D. Thompson, and Z. Fisk, Phys. Rev. Lett. **97**,
056404 (2006). * [15] R. Settai, H. Shishido, S. Ikeda, Y. Murakawa, M.
Nakashima, D. Aoki, Y. Haga, H. Harima, and Y. Onuki, J. Phys.: Condens.
Matter **13**, L627 (2001). * [16] R. Settai, T. Takeuchi, and Y. Onuki,
J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **76**, 051003 (2007). * [17] A. C. Larson and R. B.
VonDreele, Los Alamos National Laboratory Report No. LAUR 86-748, 2000
(unpublished). * [18] J. Hudis, Rongwei Hu, C. L. Broholm, V. F.
Mitrovic, and C. Petrovic, J. Magn. Magn. Mater. **307**, 301 (2006). *
[19] M. Amara, R. M. Galera, P. Morin, T. Veres, and P. Burlet, J. Magn.
Magn. Mater. **130**, 127 (1994). * [20] D. Louca, J. D. Thompson, J. M.
Lawrence, R. Movshovich, C. Petrovic, J. L. Sarrao, and G. H. Kwei,
Phys. Rev. B **61**, R14940 (2000). * [21] S. Murayama, C. Sekine, A.
Yokoyanagi, K. Hoshi, and Y. Onuki, Phys. Rev. B **56**, 11092 (1997). *
[22] V. S. Zapf, E. J. Freeman, E. D. Bauer, J. Petricka, C. Sirvent, N.
A. Frederick, R. P. Dickey, and M. B. Maple, Phys. Rev. B **65**, 014506
(2001). * [23] Y. Bang and A. V. Balatsky, Phys. Rev. B **69**, 212504
(2004). * [24] A. J. Millis, Phys. Rev. B **48**, 7183 (1993). * [25] F.
Steglich, B. Buschinger, P. Gegenwart, M. Lohmann, R. Helfrich, C.
Langhammer, P. Hellmann, L. Donnevert, S. Thomas, A. Link, C. Geibel, M.
Lang, G. Sparn, and W. Assmus, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter **8**, 9909
(1996). * [26] P. S. Normile, S. Heathman, M. Idiri, P. Boulet, J.
Rebizant, F. Wastin, G. H. Lander, T. Le Bihan, and A. Lindbaum, Phys.
Rev. B **72**, 184508 (2005). * [27] V. A. Sidorov, M. Nicklas, P. G.
Pagliuso, J. L. Sarrao, Y. Bang, A. V. Balatsky, and J. D. Thompson,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **89**, 157004 (2002). * [28] Tuson Park, F. Ronning,
H. Q. Yuan, M. B. Salomon, R. Movshovich, J. L. Sarrao, and J. D.
Thompson, Nature (London) **440**, 65 (2006). * [29] G. Knebel, D. Aoki,
D. Braithwaite, B. Salce, and J. Flouquet, Phys. Rev. B **74**,
020501(R) (2006). * [30] B. Lake, H. M. Ronnow, N. B. Christensen, G.
Aeppli, K. Lefmann, D. F. McMorrow, P. Vorderwisch, P. Smeibidl, N.
Mangkorntong, T. Sasagawa, M. Nohara, H. Takagi, and T. E. Mason, Nature
(London) **415**, 299 (2002). * [31] E. Demler, S. Sachdev, and Y.
Zhang, Phys. Rev. Lett. **87**, 067202 (2001). * [32] Y. Zhang, E.
Demler, and S. Sachdev, Phys. Rev. B **66**, 094501 (2002). * [33] A. V.
Balatsky, I. Vekhter, and Jian-Xin Zhu, Rev. Mod. Phys. **78**, 373
(2006). * [34] C. Petrovic, S. L. Bud’ko, V. G. Kogan, and P. C.
Canfield, Phys. Rev. B **66**, 054534 (2002). * [35] S. Nakatsuji, S.
Yeo, L. Balicas, Z. Fisk, P. Schlottmann, P. G. Pagliuso, N. O. Moreno,
J. L. Sarrao, and J. D. Thompson, Phys. Rev. Lett. **89**, 106402
(2002). * [36] Johnpierre Paglione, T. A. Sayles, P.-C. Ho, J. R.
Jeffries, and M. B. Maple, Nat. Phys. **3**, 703 (2007).
