Identical effects of indirect and direct electron doping of
superconducting BaFe₂As₂ thin films

Takayoshi Katase

Materials and Structures Laboratory, Tokyo Institute of Technology,
Maillox B3-1, 4259 Nagatsuta-cho, Midori-ku, Yokohama 226-8503, Japan

Soshi Imura

Materials and Structures Laboratory, Tokyo Institute of Technology,
Maillox B3-1, 4259 Nagatsuta-cho, Midori-ku, Yokohama 226-8503, Japan

Hidenori Hiramatsu

Materials and Structures Laboratory, Tokyo Institute of Technology,
Maillox B3-1, 4259 Nagatsuta-cho, Midori-ku, Yokohama 226-8503, Japan

Toshio Kamiya

Materials and Structures Laboratory, Tokyo Institute of Technology,
Maillox B3-1, 4259 Nagatsuta-cho, Midori-ku, Yokohama 226-8503, Japan

Hideo Hosono

Materials and Structures Laboratory, Tokyo Institute of Technology,
Maillox B3-1, 4259 Nagatsuta-cho, Midori-ku, Yokohama 226-8503, Japan
Frontier Research Center, Tokyo Institute of Technology, S2-6F East,
Maillox S2-13, 4259 Nagatsuta-cho, Midori-ku, Yokohama 226-8503, Japan

Received 9 February 2012; published 27 April 2012

###### Abstract

Electron doping of a 122-type iron pnictide BaFe₂As₂ by substituting the
Ba site with an alovalent ion (indirect doping), which had been
unsuccessful by conventional solid-state synthesis methods, was achieved
by a nonequilibrium film growth process. The substitution with La was
substantiated by a systematic shrinkage of the c-axis lattice parameter
due to the smaller ionic radius of La³⁺ that that of Ba²⁺. A negative
Hall coefficient indicated that the majority carriers were electrons, as
is consistent with this aliovalent ion doping. The La substitution
suppressed an antiferromagnetic transition and induced bulk
superconductivity at a maximum onset critical temperature (T_(c)) of
22.4 K. The electronic phase diagram for (Ba_(1 − x)La_(x))Fe₂As₂ was
built, which revealed that the indirect electron doping at the Ba site
with La ([Ba_(1 − x)La_(x))Fe₂As₂] exhibits almost the same T_(c)-
doping level relation as that of the direct electron doping at the Fe
site with Co [Ba(Fe_(1 − x)Co_(x))₂As₂]. This finding clarified that
T_(c) in 122-type compounds is not affected by a crystallographic doping
site, which is in sharp contrast to the 1111-type compounds, REFeAsO (RE
= rare earth). It is tentatively attributed to the differences in their
dimensionality of electronic structures and electron pairing symmetries.

pacs: DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.85.140516 [PACS number(s)] 74.70.Xa,
74.62.Dh, 74.25.Dw, 74.25.Jb [

]

Since the discovery of iron pnictide superconductors [1] with high
critical temperatures (T_(c)) up to 55 K [2], there has been intensive
effort to elucidate superconductivity mechanisms. Among iron pnictide
superconductors, 1111-type REFeAsO (RE = rare earth) [1] and 122-type
AEFe₂As₂ (AE = alkaline earth) [3] systems have been investigated
extensively, and their electronic phase diagrams have been mapped out
[4, 5, 6, 7] to discuss superconductivity mechanisms [8, 9, 10].
Superconductivity in these compounds is induced by chemical substitution
with aliovalent elements, which leads to the doping of electrons or
holes into the parent materials, along with suppression of an
antiferromagnetic (AFM) ordering and a tetragonal-to-orthorhombic
structural phase transition [11]. The structures of these crystals are
composed of alternating stacking of FeAs and REO/AE layers, where the
former forms a Fermi surface and serves as a carrier conducting path
(active pairing planes in a superconducting state), while the latter
acts as a nonactive blocking layer, in particular, for 1111-type
compounds with thicker three-atomic RE oxide layers. Thus, carrier
doping may be classified by crystallographic doping sites, i.e.,
aliovalent ion doping in the active FeAs layers ("direct doping") and in
the nonactive REO/AE layers ("indirect doping") (see the inset to Fig.
4).

It is thought that direct doping causes a large deterioration on T_(c),
because impurity scattering and disorder in the active pairing layers
provide a larger perturbation [12]. Indeed, it has been clarified that
this is the case for the 1111-type REFeAsO [5]. On the other hand,
recent theoretical studies have proposed that the sensitivity to
impurity doping at Fe sites depends largely on the electron pairing
symmetries [13]. Due to unique multiorbital band structures at the Fermi
levels of the iron pnictides, several pairing symmetries, such as a
sign-reversal s⁺⁻ wave state [8, 9] and a non-sign-reversal s₊₊ wave
state [10], have been proposed theoretically. According to their
first-principles calculation with Anderson’s theorem by assuming the
impurity potential for nonmagnetic dopants at Fe sites [13], although
the sign-reversal s⁺⁻ wave state is sensitive to the impurity doping in
the active pairing layers, the non-sign-reversal s₊₊ wave state is
robust, i.e., T_(c) remains almost unchanged with the doping level,
opposite to the conspicuous T_(c) drop for the s⁺⁻ case. As noted above,
it is reported that the 1111-type iron pnictides, REFeAsO, exhibit
pronounced differences in the maximum T_(c) between direct electron
doping [e.g., 17 K for Sm(Fe_(1 − x)Co_(x))AsO(Ref. [5]) and indirect
electron doping [55 K for SmFeAs(O_(1 − x)F_(x)) (Ref. [2]); therefore,
the s⁺⁻ wave state mediated by an AFM spin fluctuation is now accepted
for the electron-pairing symmetry for the 1111-type iron pnictides. This
model is supported experimentally by observation of the
half-flux-quantum effect in F-doped NdFeAsO polycrystals [14]. However,
for 122-type compounds, AEFe₂As₂, to the best of our knowledge, this
hypothesis has not been examined experimentally, because indirect
electron doping has not been achieved by conventional solid-state
reactions [15, 16] (the only exceptions are Ref. [16] for AE = Sr
achieved by a high-pressure synthesis and Refs. [17] and [18] for AE =
Ca achieved by a melt-growth method) due to the electronic instability
of the indirectly electron-doped AEFe₂As₂[19].

In this Rapid Communication, we employ a nonequilibrium film-growth
process to achieve metastable doping of La into the Ba sites of
BaFe₂As₂. Although doping of a La ion has been unsuccessful for bulk
polycrystalline samples, La dopants are successfully introduced into the
BaFe₂As₂ epitaxial films grown by pulsed laser deposition (PLD). The
electronic phase diagram obtained for indirect electron doping is very
close to that reported for direct electron doping of
Ba(Fe_(1 − x)Co_(x))₂As₂[7]. The close similarity between the indirect
and direct doping effects in BaFe₂As₂ differs from the trends in REFeAsO
materials [25].

Here 150-250 nm thick films of (Ba_(1 − x)La_(x))Fe₂As₂ were fabricated
on MgO (001) single crystals at an optimized growth temperature of 850
degC by PLD using a neodymium-doped -ytrium aluminum garnet laser as the
excitation source and polycrystalline bulks of La-added BaFe₂As₂ as
ablation targets synthesized by a solid-state reaction. The detailed
fabrication process is reported in Ref. [20]. The obtained phases and
their lattice parameters were examined by powder x-ray diffraction (XRD;
anode radiation: Cu _K_a, D8 ADVANCE-TXS, Bruker AXS) for
polycrystalline bulk samples, while high-resolution XRD (anode
radiation: Cu _K_a1, Smart Lab, RIGAKU) was used for thin films. The
chemical doping concentrations of the thin films (_x_film) were
estimated using a wavelength-dispersive x-ray electron-probe
microanalyzer (EPMA), which also demonstrated the homogeneity of the La
distribution in the (Ba_(1 − x)La_(x))Fe₂As₂ films (see Fig. S3 in the
Supplemental Material for chemical composition mapping images [21]).
Temperature dependences of electrical resistivity (ρ-_T_) were measured
by the four-probe method in a T range of 2-300 K with a physical
property measurement system (PPMS, Quantum Design). The temperature
dependences of magnetization were measured with a vibrating sample
magnetometer (VSM) after zero-field cooling (ZFC) and during field
cooling (FC). The Hall effect measurements were performed using a
six-terminal Hall bar structure formed by photolithography and Ar ion
milling. The external magnetic field was applied parallel to the c axis
for both the magnetization and Hall effect measurements.

Figure 1 shows the evolution of the lattice parameters with doping
concentration for bulk polycrystalline samples synthesized by a
solid-state reaction and epitaxial films grown by PLD (see Figs. S1 and
S2 in the Supplemental Material for XRD patterns [21]). Here, the doping
concentrations are taken as the nominal values for the bulk
polycrystalline samples (_x_bulk) and as the chemical composition values
measured by EPMA for the epitaxial films (_x_film). For the bulk
polycrystals, neither the _c_- nor _a_-axis lengths were changed upon
impurity doping, indicating that the La³⁺ ions were not incorporated
into the BaFe₂As₂ phase by a solid-state reaction. In contrast, for the
epitaxial films, the _c_-axis length systematically shrank

(Δc/c ∼ −3.5% for _x_film = 0.44), while the change in the a axis was
much smaller (Δa/a ∼ −0.3%). These results substantiate that La³⁺ ion
substitution for the Ba²⁺ sites is achieved in the epitaxial films.

Figure 2 summarizes the ρ-_T_ curves for the (Ba_(1 − x)La_(x))Fe₂As₂
epitaxial films with _x_film = 0-0.44. The ρ at room temperature
gradually decreased with increasing _x_film. The temperature of
resistivity anomaly (_T_anomal), which is associated with the structural
and magnetic phase transitions, [22] continuously shifted from 135 K to
the lower T side as _x_film increased. A superconducting transition with
zero resistivity (an expanded view is shown in the right-hand panel of
Fig. 2) was distinctly observed for _x_film = 0.08, but the resistivity
anomaly still remained as observed at _T_anomal = 72 K, indicating that
the superconductivity and the AFM ordering coexist. As _x_film further
increased, the resistivity anomaly was not detected in the _r-T_ curves.
Additionally, the onset _T_c (T_(c)^(onset)) reached a maximum value
22.4 K at _x_film = 0.13, and then monotonically decreased to zero
(normal metal state) as _x_film further increased to a _x_film = 0.44.
The maximum T_(c)^(onset) of (Ba_(1 − x)La_(x))Fe₂As₂ is comparable to
T_(c)^(onset) of 22 K for (Sr_(1 − x)La_(x))Fe₂As₂ polycrystalline
samples, [16] but is much lower than T_(c)^(onset) of ∼40 K for
(Ca_(1 − x)_RE_(x))Fe₂As₂ single crystals. [17, 18]

To confirm bulk superconductivity of the resulting epitaxial films,
magnetization measurements were performed on the optimally doped
(Ba_(1 − x)La_(x))Fe₂As₂ films with _x_film = 0.13 [Fig. 3(a)]. The
shielding signal for ZFC was detected from T = 18 K and corresponded to
a 100

In addition, to investigate the polarity of the dominant carriers, Hall
effect measurements were conducted for the

Figure 1: (Color online) Variation in the unit cell dimension in
La-doped BaFe₂As₂ thin films and bulk polycrystals with doping
concentration. Data were taken at room temperature for bulk polycrystals
(open symbols) and thin films (solid symbols). The doping concentrations
are taken as the nominal values for bulk polycrystals (_x_bulk) and
those measured by EPMA for thin films (_x_film).

Figure 2: (Color online) Variation of ρ-_T_ curves with doping
concentration in (Ba_(1 − x)La_(x))Fe₂As₂ epitaxial films (_x_film =
0–0.44). Doping concentrations _x_film are indicated in the figures. The
right-hand panel shows an enlarged view around _T_c (_T_ < 35 K). The
arrows in the left- and right-hand panels indicate the positions of
temperatures of resistivity anomaly (_T_anomal) and onset _T_c
(T_(c)^(onset)), respectively.

optimally doped (Ba_(1 − x)La_(x))Fe₂As₂ epitaxial film. Figure 3(b)
shows transverse resistivity ρ_(xy) in magnetic fields μ₀H up to 9 T
(μ₀H ∥ c) measured at T = 300-25 K. The slope dρ_(xy)/d(μ₀H) was
negative in the high μ₀H region, but a small increase in ρ_(xy) was
observed in the low μ₀H region. Similar to reports on
Ba(Fe_(1 − x)Co_(x))₂As₂ films,[23] the small increase might be due to
anomalous Hall effects arising from a small magnetic impurity such as Fe
and/or the (Ba_(1 − x)La_(x))Fe₂As₂ phase. The Hall coefficients
($R_{\rm H}$) were estimated by excluding the anomalous ρ_(xy) region at
low μ₀H≤ 3 T and extracting the straight line region at the higher μ₀H.
The inset in Fig. 3(b) shows the T dependence of $R_{\rm H}$. The
negative $R_{\rm H}$ confirmed that electrons dominate the transport
properties of (Ba_(1 − x)La_(x))Fe₂As₂ films, which is consistent with
the supposition that the La³⁺ dopants occupy the Ba²⁺ sites.
$|R_{\rm H}|$ gradually increased as T decreased without the sudden
increase associated with an AFM transition,[24] and the $|R_{\rm H}|$
value at 25 K (− 2.5 × 10⁻³ cm³/C) is comparable to those of optimally
doped Ba(Fe_(1 − x)Co_(x))₂As₂ single crystals ([− 2 to − 3× 10⁻³
cm³/C]²³, which indicates that the carrier concentrations in the present
(Ba_(1 − x)La_(x))Fe₂As₂ films are almost the same as the optimum
concentration in the Ba(Fe_(1 − x)Co_(x))₂As₂ single crystals.

Figure 4 summarizes the electronic phase diagram of $T_{\rm monon}$ and
$T_{\rm c}^{\rm onset}$ for the (Ba_(1 − x)La_(x))Fe₂As₂ epitaxial films
as a function of doping concentration. The previously reported phase
diagram of directly electron-doped Ba(Fe_(1 − x)Co_(x))₂As₂ single
crystals [[[[[[[[[[[[because the latter’s maximum
$T_{\rm c}^{\rm onset}$ (∼47 K) is much higher than that of direct
Co-doped [Ca(Fe_(1 − x)Co_(x))₂As₂] (∼20 K),[27] which is totally
different from the present BaFe₂As₂ case, in spite of similar material
systems and electronic structures. However, we should notice that all of
the RE-doped CaFe₂As₂ single crystals reported to date showed very small
shielding volume fractions.[17, 18] In addition,
(Ca_(1 − x)Pr_(x))Fe₂As₂ single crystals have two superconducting phases
with $T_{\rm c}$ of 21 and 49 K, where the former would be the bulk
$T_{\rm c}$ of (Ca_(1 − x)Pr_(x))Fe₂As₂ because of a large diamagnetism
while the latter with a small shielding volume fraction may be
attributed to a trace secondary phase or a strained surface phase.[18]
If one takes the bulk $T_{\rm c}$ of 21 K for (Ca_(1 − x)RE_(x))Fe₂As₂,
it is consistent with the present results.

In conclusion, indirect electron doping into BaFe₂As₂ was attained by
using epitaxial films of La-doped BaFe₂As₂ on MgO (001) substrates. The
nonequilibrium film-growth process is an effective way to stabilize the
metastable doping of La at Ba sites. The La substitution rapidly
suppressed the AFM transition and induced superconductivity at a maximum
$T_{\rm c}^{\rm onset}$ of 22.4 K for (Ba_(1 − x)La_(x))Fe₂As₂. We
obtained clear superconducting domes closely overlapping with those of
direct electron-doped Ba(Fe_(1 − x)Co_(x))₂As₂. The identical effect of
the indirect and the direct electron doping clarified that $T_{\rm c}$
does not depend on whether or not impurity dopants exist in the active
pairing layers, but depends solely on doped carrier concentrations. This
result is consistent with the stronger three dimensionality of the
Fermi-surface electronic structure and s₊₊ wave state in
superconductivity of electron-doped BaFe₂As₂.

This work was supported by the Japan Society for the Promotion of
Science (JSPS), Japan, through the "Funding Program for World-Leading
Innovative R&D on Science and Technology (FIRST Program)."

## References

* [1] Present address: Frontier Research Center, Tokyo Institute of
Technology, Yokohama, Japan. * [2] Corresponding author:
hosono@msl.titech.ac.jp * [3] Y. Kamihara, T. Watanabe, M. Hirano, and
H. Hosono, J. Am. Chem. Soc. **130**, 3296 (2008). * [4] Z.-A. Ren _et
al._, Chin. Phys. Lett. **25**, 2215 (2008). * [5] M. Rotter, M. Tegel,
and D. Johrendt, Phys. Rev. Lett. **101**, 107006 (2008). * [6] T.
Hanna, Y. Muraba, S. Matsuishi, N. Igawa, K. Kodama, S. I. Shamoto, and
H. Hosono, Phys. Rev. B **84**, 024521 (2011). * [7] C. Wang _et al._,
Phys. Rev. B **79**, 054521 (2009). * [8] M. Rotter, M. Pangerl, M.
Tegal, and D. Johrendt, Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. **47**, 7974 (2008). *
[9] N. Ni, M. E. Tillman, J.-Q. Yan, A. Kracher, S. T. Hannahs, S. L.
Bud’ko, and P. C. Canfield, Phys. Rev. B **78**, 214515 (2008). * [10]
I. I. Mazin, D. J. Singh, M. D. Johannes, and M. H. Du, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**101**, 057003 (2008). * [11] K. Kuroki, S. Onari, R. Arita, H. Usui,
Y. Tanaka, H. Kontani, and H. Aoki, Phys. Rev. Lett. **101**, 087004
(2008). * [12] H. Kontani and S. Onari, Phys. Rev. Lett. **104**, 157001
(2010). * [13] C. de la Cruz _et al._, Nature (London) **453**, 899
(2008); T. Nomura, S.-W. Kim, Y. Kamihara, M. Hirano, P. V. Sushko, K.
Kato, M. Takata, A. L. Shluger, and H. Hosono, Supercond. Sci. Technol.
**21**, 125028 (2008). * [14] H. Alloul, J. Bobroff, M. Gabay, and P. J.
Hirschfeld, Rev. Mod. Phys. **81**, 45 (2009). * [15] S. Onari and H.
Kontani, Phys. Rev. Lett. **103**, 177001 (2009). * [16] C.-T. Chen, C.
C. Tsuei, M. B. Ketchen, Z.-A. Ren, and Z. X. Zhao, Nat. Phys. **6**,
260 (2010). * [17] G. Wu, R. H. Liu, H. Chen, Y. J. Yan, T. Wu, Y. L.
Xie, J. J. Ying, X. F. Wang, D. F. Fang, and X. H. Chen, Europhys. Lett.
**84**, 277010 (2008). * [18] Y. Muraba, S. Matsuishi, S.-W. Kim, T.
Atou, O. Fukunaga, and H. Hosono, Phys. Rev. B **82**, 180512 (2010). *
[19] S. R. Saha, N. P. Butch, T. Drye, J. Magill, S. Ziemak, K.
Kirshebaum, P. Y. Zavalij, J. W. Lynn, and J. Paglione, Phys. Rev. B
**85**, 024525 (2012). * [20] B. Lv, L. Deng, M. Gooch, F. Wei, Y. Sun,
J. K. Meen, Y.-Y. Xue, B. Lorenz, and C.-W. Chu, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci.
USA **108**, 15705 (2011). * [21] A. Leithe-Jasper, W. Schnelle, C.
Geibel, and H. Rosner, Phys. Rev. Lett. **101**, 207004 (2008); D.
Kasinathan, A. Ormeci, K. Koch, U. Burkhardt, W. Schnelle, A.
Leithe-Jasper, and H. Rosner, New J. Phys. **11**, 025023 (2009). * [22]
H. Hiramatsu, T. Katase, T. Kamiya, M. Hirano, and H. Hosono, Appl.
Phys. Express **1**, 101702 (2008); T. Katase, H. Hiramatsu, T. Kamiya,
and H. Hosono, _ibid._ 3, 063101 (2010). * [23] See Supplemental
Material at http://link.aps.org/supplemental/10.1103/PhysRevB.85.140516
for Element mapping images measured by EPMA and XRD patterns of bulks
and thin films. * [24] Q. Huang, Y. Qiu, W. Bao, M. A. Green, J. W.
Lynn, Y. C. Gasparovic, T. Wu, G. Wu, and X. H. Chen, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**101**, 257003 (2008). * [25] S. Mohan, T. Taen, H. Hagyuda, Y.
Nakajima, T. Tamegai, T. Katase, H. Hiramatsu, and H. Hosono, Supercond.
Sci. Technol. **23**, 105016 (2011). * [26] L. Fang _et al._, Phys. Rev.
B **80**, 140508 (2009). * [27] I. A. Nekrasov, Z. V. Pchelkina, and M.
V. Sadovskii, JETP Lett. **88**, 144 (2008). * [28] P. Vilmercati _et
al._, Phys. Rev. B **79**, 220503 (2009). * [29] L. Harnage _et al._,
Phys. Rev. B **83**, 094523 (2011).
