Effect of Co substitution on the magnetic order in Ca(Fe1-_x_Co_x_)2As2
single crystals studied by neutron diffraction

K. Prokes,^(1, *) S. Mat’as,¹ L. Harnagea,² S. Singh,³ S. Wurmehl,² D.
N. Argyriou,¹ and B. Buchner²

¹Helmholtz-Zentrum Berlin fur Materialen und Energie, M-11, Hahn-Meitner
Platz 1, D-1409 Berlin, Germany

²Leibniz-Institute for Solid State and Materials Research (IFW)-Dresden,
D-01171 Dresden, Germany

³Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER), Pune,
Maharashtra 411008, India

Received 7 December 2010; revised manuscript received 26 January 2011;
published 21 March 2011

###### Abstract

Ca(Fe1-_x_Co_x_)2As2 single crystals with a concentration x = 0.032,
0.039, 0.051, 0.056, and 0.063 were prepared and investigated by means
of magnetic susceptibility and neutron diffraction combined with _in
situ_ electrical resistivity. The _x_-_T_ phase diagram has been
constructed. With increasing Co substitution, the anomaly marking the
tetragonal to low-temperature orthorhombic structural phase transition
temperature _T__(S), the antiferromagnetic phase transition temperature
_T__(N), and the ordered magnetic moment gradually decrease. For samples
with 0.039 ≤x≤ 0.056, both transitions split and the _T__(N) appears at
increasingly lower temperatures than _T__(S). There is a small but
finite difference between _T__(S) determined upon cooling and warming.
For samples with x = 0.063, no orthorhombic distortion and no long-range
magnetic order is observed. For x ≥ 0.051 superconductivity appears at
low temperatures and the onset of the superconducting phase transition
temperature _T__(SC) decreases slightly with increasing Co content. For
the limited concentration range 0.051 ≤x≤ 0.056, both long-range
antiferromagnetism and superconductivity coexist. Comparison with
Ba(Fe1-_x_Co_x_)2As2 indicates a more abrupt disappearance of magnetic
order in Ca(Fe1-_x_Co_x_)2As2. We find a direct correspondence between
the magnitude of the ordered magnetic moment and the degree of
orthorhombic splitting.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.83.104414 PACS number(s): 74.70.Xa, 61.50.Ks,
74.25.-q, 75.30.-m + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL REVIEW B **83**,
104414 (2011)

## I Introduction

Iron, a prototype ferromagnetic material, is not supposed to be
compatible with classical BCS-type superconductivity. Iron
ferromagnetically aligned spin moments create a local magnetic field
that would destroy any Cooper pairs. The announcements by Hosono _et
al._[1] about the existence of superconductivity in F-doped iron
pnictide LaFeAsO and by Rotter _et al._[2] of a similar observation in
K-doped BaFe2As2 therefore came as a big surprise and initiated
exceptional interest and feverish activity around the world that
continues to date. Since this discovery, a large number of experimental
and theoretical studies have been undertaken to reveal relationships
among structure, magnetism, composition, and superconductivity (SC). The
parent _R_FeAsO (_R_ = rare earth) and _AE_Fe2As2 (_AE_ = Ca, Sr, Ba)
compounds are not superconductors at ambient pressure but undergo
structural and antiferromagnetic (AF) transitions.[3, 4, 5, 6] Upon
chemical doping [2, 7] or under pressure,[8, 9] the structural and
magnetic transitions are suppressed and SC eventually appears. Early
studies were made mainly on polycrystalline samples. However, advances
in single-crystal growth in recent years have enabled more systematic
studies that also include studies addressing the rather weak anisotropy
of magnetic and transport properties.[10, 11, 12, 13, 14] Concerning the
substitution of transition metal for Fe, a relative large number of
studies dealing with cobalt substitutions in Ba(Fe1-_x_Co_x_)2As2[11,
12, 13, 14, 15, 16] but few on Sr(Fe1-_x_Co_x_)2As2[17, 18, 19] and
recently also Ca(Fe1-_x_Co_x_)2As2 single crystals exist [12, 13, 14,
15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22] in the literature, probably due to
preparation difficulties. At ambient pressure, undoped CaFe2As2
undergoes a first-order transition from a high-temperature tetragonal
(_T_) phase (ThCr2Si2 structure) to a structure with orthorhombic (_O_)
symmetry at _T__(S) = 166 K concomitant with an AF transition.[23] In
this contribution we report neutron diffraction results on several
Ca(Fe1-_x_Co_x_)2As2 single crystals combined with magnetic bulk and _in
situ_ electrical resistivity measurements leading to the determination
of basic structural and magnetic properties and to construction of an
_x_-_T_ phase diagram.

## II Experimental procedure

Single crystals of Ca(Fe1-_x_Co_x_)2As2 were grown in three steps.
First, the precursor materials (CaAs, Fe2As, and Co2As) were prepared by
reacting stoichiometric quantities of the constituents under vacuum at
temperatures of less than 900^(∘)C. In the second step, stoichiometric
quantities of precursors were grounded, pressed into pellets, and sealed
in a quartz ampoule under vacuum. The ampoule was heated at temperatures
up to 850^(∘)C. Finally, the sintered Ca(Fe1-_x_Co_x_)2As2 pellets and
the Sn shots were loaded in an alumina crucible, together with a second
catch crucible, and subsequently sealed in an evacuated quartz ampoule.
The charge was heated up to 1090^(∘)C for 24 h and then slowly cooled
down to 600^(∘)C, where the flux was decanted. Resulting platelet-like
single crystals with a mass of between 20 and 200 mg were investigated
for Co composition and possible residual Sn content using a scanning
electron microscope (SEM Philips XL 30) equipped with an
energy-dispersive x-ray spectroscopy probe (EDX) and a wavelength
dispersive x-ray probe (WDX). It has been confirmed that, within the
sensitivity of EDX, no inclusions of Sn exist in either of our crystals
and that the average Co concentration measured over 16 to 25 spots on
each used sample is generally somewhat lower than the nominal
composition. The statistical error in the Co concentration determination
is less than 0.3 atomic percent (at

The field dependence of magnetization curves M(T) at selected
temperatures and the temperature dependence of the static magnetic
susceptibility χ = M/H, where H denotes the applied magnetic field, were
measured on zero-field cooled samples in the temperature range 2-200 K
using a SQUID magnetometer (Quantum Design) in fields up to 5.5 T
applied along the [110] direction. No correction for the demagnetization
factor was applied, however, the signal originating from the sample
holder was carefully subtracted.

Neutron diffraction experiments were performed on the E4 double-axis
diffractometer at the Helmholtz-Zentrum Berlin using a neutron
wavelength of λ = 2.44 A and a standard cryostat capable of reaching
temperatures down to 1.7 K. Samples were attached by means of Teflon
tape to an aluminium holder, with their c axis either parallel or
perpendicular to the rotation axis of the diffractometer. The E4
diffractometer is equipped with a 20 × 20-cm position-sensitive detector
that provides a diffraction image over a range of scattering angles (2θ)
as the sample is rocked over a specified angular range (ω). This
considerably simplifies the task of mapping the evolution of the
scattering signal with temperature. Two λ/2 filters reduce residual
higher-order wavelength contamination to a level of less than 10⁻⁴. Each
nuclear reflection was measured typically for about 15 min. Magnetic
reflections, due to their lower intensity, were measured for 3-5 times
longer. To extract integrated intensities, the individual scans were
analyzed by fitting to Gaussian profiles. The appropriate scattering
lengths and the standard, weighted Fe²⁺/Co²⁺ magnetic form factors were
used in the refinement. We also followed the intensities of
representative nuclear and magnetic reflections as a function of
temperature. The electrical resistivity for selected Co concentrations
was measured _in situ_ during the neutron diffraction measurements using
a standard four-point ac method with electrical current applied
approximately along the [110] direction.

## III Results

### Magnetization and magnetic susceptibility

In Fig. 1, the field dependence of the magnetization measured at 5 K
with a field of up to 5.5 T applied along the [110] direction for
various Co concentrations is shown. In all cases samples were first
cooled down in zero field and then a field was applied. The
magnetization remains positive for all samples with x ≤ 0.039, also
having a positive slope, which seems to increase with increasing x. For
higher concentrations, however, one encounters a hysteretic behavior,
typical for superconducting materials, which is combined with a
paraprocess, giving rise to an increasingly positive slope at higher
fields. The hysteresis increases with increasing Co concentration.

In Fig. 2 we show the temperature dependence of the magnetic
susceptibility χ = M/H measured on zero-field cooled samples over a wide
temperature range with a field of 1 T applied along the [110] direction
for various Co concentrations. The magnetic susceptibility does not
follow a Curie-Weiss law at high temperatures and remains very small but
positive for samples with x ≤ 0.039 over the whole temperature range. At
high temperatures, a small drop in susceptibility values attributed to
the appearance of an AF order below T_(N) can be seen. To show this
phase transition in more detail, we show the magnetic susceptibility
over a limited range of values. The anomaly broadens and T_(N) shifts
upon increasing the Co substitution toward lower temperatures. For the
x = 0.063 sample it is not discernible. At low temperatures, the
magnetic susceptibility becomes diamagnetic for samples with x ≥ 0.051
marking the onset of the SC state. The low-temperature detail of the
temperature dependence of the magnetic susceptibility is shown in Fig. 3
and, on an expanded scale, in its inset. Although the transition becomes
more pronounced and sharper with increasing Co concentration, the onset
of the SC phase transition temperature $T_{\rm SC}$ shifts slightly
toward lower temperatures.

Figure 2: (Color online) Temperature dependence of the magnetic
susceptibility χ = M/H measured with a field of 1 T applied along the
[110] direction on zero-field cooled Ca(Fe_(1 − x)Co_(x))₂As₂ samples.

Figure 1: (Color online) Magnetic field dependence of the magnetization
measured at 5 K in fields of up to 5.5 T applied along the [110]
direction on zero-field cooled Ca(Fe_(1 − x)Co_(x))₂As₂ samples.

### Neutron diffraction

Prior to neutron diffraction experiments at low temperatures, the
samples were briefly checked and oriented using the neutron diffraction
technique at room temperature. It was found that all the samples,
irrespective of Co content, adopt a crystal structure at room
temperature that conforms with the expected ThCr₂Si₂-type tetragonal
structure with the space group I4/mmm. Although, as shown below, some of
the investigated Co compositions do show the T-O structural phase
transition, in this contribution we use systematic indexing within the
high-temperature tetragonal notation. Figure 4 shows rocking curves
through representative nuclear and magnetic reflection positions
performed at 1.7 K on three Ca(Fe_(1 − x)Co_(x))₂As₂ samples, with x =
0.032, 0.056, and 0.063. The splitting of the (2 0 0)_(T) Bragg
reflection into three, well-separated reflections, as shown in Fig.
4(a), documents the presence of the O symmetry in this sample at 1.7 K.
However, there are, in fact, four O-split Bragg reflections, belonging
to four differently oriented O domains. For a given T reflection, two of
the O reflections overlap and project on the same diffracted angles.[25]
The splitting that appears below the T-O structural phase transition
temperature T_(S) gradually decreases with increasing Co content, as
evidenced by the rocking profile for the x = 0.056 sample shown in Fig.
4(b), and eventually disappears completely for the sample with x =
0.063, as shown in Fig. 4(c). For the latter and higher concentrations
the system does not exhibit any T-O structural transition, preserving
the high-temperature T crystal structure.

It has been unambiguously shown by using polycrystalline samples and
single crystals[19] that the long-range AF ordering in all AEFe₂As₂ (AE
= Ca, Sr, Ba) systems studied to date is below the Neel temperature
T_(N) associated with the O structural phase. The original T crystal
structure is distorted in such a way that the a-axis parameter gets
slightly larger than the b-axis parameter. The measure of distortion,
defined as δ = (a − b)/(a + b) is rather small, amounting typically to
0.5

Figure 4: (Color online) Color-coded diffraction maps showing the ω-2θ
angular distribution of the diffracted neutron intensities recorded at
the (2 0 0)_(T) Bragg reflection positions for three selected
CaFe_(1 − x)Co_(x))₂As₂ samples, with (a) x = 0.032, (b) x = 0.056, and
(c) x = 0.063 at 1.7 K. (d–f) Similar angular distributions of the
diffracted intensities recorded under the same conditions for identical
Co compositions at the magnetic (0.5 0.5 1)_(T) reflection positions.
Each panel represents a portion of data that covers 3.7^(∘) along 2θ and
3.1^(∘) along ω.

Figure 3: (Color online) Low-temperature details of the dependence of
the magnetic susceptibility measured with a field of 0.005 T applied
along the [110] direction on zero-field cooled Ca(Fe_(1 − x)Co_(x))₂As₂
samples. Inset: Magnetic susceptibility in a limited range of values for
various Co compositions.

additional magnetic signal. We can therefore conclude that for samples
with x ≥ 0.063, no long-range magnetic order with a magnetic propagation
vector leading to new magnetic Bragg reflections exists, the AF being
associated with the O phase. This result is completely in accord with
magnetic susceptibility experiments described above suggesting a gradual
loss of magnetism with increasing Co content.

Interestingly, for undoped AEFe₂As₂ (AE = Ca, Sr, Ba) samples the
structural and magnetic phase transition temperatures coincide, [6; 19;
24; 26; 27; 28] but in Ba(Fe_(1 − x)Co_(x))₂As₂[17; 19] and
Sr(Fe_(1 − x)Co_(x))₂As₂[12; 19], upon doping with Co, the two
transition temperatures split, the T_(N) being shifted more rapidly with
doping toward lower temperatures. Recent electrical resistivity and
magnetic bulk measurements by Harnagea _et al._[22] suggest that such a
departure of T_(S) and T_(N) takes place also in
Ca(Fe_(1 − x)Co_(x))₂As₂. However, it is of paramount importance to
verify this result also by means of microscopic experiments.

In Fig. 5(a), the temperature dependence of the integrated intensity
across the (2 0 0)_(T) reflection position measured for the x = 0.032
sample upon heating is shown. Two of the O-split reflection intensities
remain nearly constant with increasing temperature up to 140 K, then
decrease abruptly and, finally, merge at T_(S) into a single T
reflection. The remaining two domains that are not distinguishable in
our measurement start to grow significantly about 20 K below T_(S), peak
just below 150 K, and decrease sharply above this temperature. The
intensity sum of all the reflections, which is much larger below T_(S)
than that of the undistorted (2 0 0)_(T) reflection, increases below 140
K only moderately and exhibits a sharp decrease above 140 K, with an
inflection point at 151 K. Linear extrapolations of temperature
dependencies below and above the critical temperature intercept at 153
(1) K, a value that we associate with T_(S). The (2 0 0)_(T) reflection,
however, continues to decrease with increasing temperature even well
above the T_(S). This effect can be ascribed to the reduced quality of
the crystal in the vicinity of the T_(S) leading to lower extinction and
higher scattered intensities. [6] In Fig. 5(b) we show the temperature
dependence of the integrated intensities of the two magnetic reflections
associated with the (0.5 0.5 1)_(T) reflection. As shown, their
intensities decrease monotonically with increasing temperature and both
reflections disappear at T_(N) = 153 (1) K. There is no increase in
intensity just below 150 K as seen for the sum of two O structural
domains. We can safely conclude that for the sample with x = 0.032,
there is no significant difference between T_(S) and T_(N). This is in
clear contrast to the Ba(Fe_(1 − x)Co_(x))₂As₂ system having the same
level of Co concentration, which shows a clear difference between T_(S)
and T_(N) by about 10 K. [32] From the angular positions of the split (2
0 0)_(T) nuclear reflections and from the split of (0.5 0.5 1)_(T)
magnetic reflections, we have evaluated the δ parameter under the
assumption that the twinning is solely caused by the difference in the
lattice parameters upon the T-O phase transition. The resulting
temperature dependencies determined from the nuclear reflections upon
cooling and warming and and from magnetic reflections upon heating are
shown in Fig. 5(c). The agreement between the nuclear and the magnetic
dependence is excellent over the majority of the temperature range,
except for the narrow region around T_(S), where the δ parameter
determined from magnetic reflections seems to be larger. As can also be
seen, there is a small but finite difference between cooling and warming
branches as determined from nuclear reflections suggesting that the
transition is of the first-order type, in agreement with the literature.
[19; 22] However, the absolute value of the δ parameter, 6.7(1) × 10⁻³,
is larger for the Ca(Fe_(1 − x)Co_(x))₂As₂, x = 0.032, sample than the
corresponding value for the Ba(Fe_(1 − x)Co_(x))₂As₂ compound assuming
the same Co content.

In Fig. 6(a) we show the temperature dependence of the diffraction
signal in the vicinity of the (2 0 0)_(T) Bragg reflection, projected on
the rocking angle ω, as measured on an x = 0.039 sample with increasing
temperature. Figure 6(b) shows the temperature dependence of the signal
recorded through the (0.5 0.5 1)_(T) reflection upon heating. Although
having different numerical labels, both dependencies are drawn to scale.
As shown, the T_(N), which is estimated to be ≈132 (2) K, is lower than
the T_(S) = 137 (2) K. Thus, we encounter a splitting of the two
transition temperatures upon doping with Co, similar to that for
Ba(Fe_(1 − x)Co_(x))₂As₂[17; 19] and Sr(Fe_(1 − x)Co_(x))₂As₂[12; 19]
compounds. Similarly to the data measured for the

Figure 5: (Color online) (a) Temperature dependence of the integrated
intensity of the (2 0 0)_(T) reflection (and the orthorhombically split
reflections) measured for the x = 0.032 sample upon heating. (b)
Temperature dependence of the integrated intensities of the two
orthorhombically split magnetic reflections originating from the (0.5
0.5 1)_(T) reflection upon heating. (c) Temperature dependencies of the
splitting parameter δ = (a – b)/(a + b), calculated from the nuclear and
magnetic reflections measured at increasing and decreasing temperature.

x = 0.032 sample, also for the x = 0.039 concentration we observe a
slight increase in the integrated intensity for the central _O_-split
reflection but a monotonic decay for the remaining two and, also, for
both magnetic reflections. The δ parameter inferred from the split of
nuclear and magnetic reflections, 6.2(1) × 10⁻³ is slightly smaller than
that for the x = 0.032 sample. To study the structural and magnetic
transitions in more detail, we followed the (0 0 2)_(T) and (0.5 0.5
3)_(T) reflections with cooling and warming. The resulting temperature
dependencies of the integrated intensities are shown in Fig. 7. There
is, again, a small, but clearly visible difference between the cooling
and the warming branches, suggesting a first-order-type transition.
Although the (0 0 2)_(T) reflection suggests a T_(S) of 138 K, in
agreement with measurements on the (2 0 0)_(T) reflection, the magnetic
reflection disappears completely only at 136 K, that is, about 3 K above
the T_(S) inferred from the temperature dependence shown in Fig. 6(b).
Closer inspection of the signal, however, suggests that this is due to
the presence of short-range correlations just above T_(N), which matches
the linear extrapolation of the temperature dependence of the
intensities to 0.

In Figs. 8(a) and 8(b) we show the temperature dependence of the
integrated intensities of the (2 0 0)_(T) and (0.5 0.5 1)_(T)
reflections measured upon heating of the x = 0.051 sample, respectively.
Similarly to samples with x = 0.032 and 0.039, the integrated
intensities of two of the _O_-split (2 0 0)_(T) reflections first
decrease slowly with increasing temperature and then decrease more
rapidly when approaching T_(S) ≈ 130 (3) K. The remaining central
_O_-split (2 0 0)_(T) reflection, which appears to be significantly more
intense than the other two reflections, increases slowly up to about 125
K and then decreases sharply. The magnetic (0.5 0.5 1)_(T) reflection,
which appears, due to finite resolution, not to be split but
significantly broadened, decreases over the whole temperature range
monotonically and vanishes around T_(N) = 120 (4) K. Thus, we observe
that the magnetic ordering disappears with increasing Co content at
increasingly lower temperatures than the _O_-_T_ structural transition,
which shifts to lower temperatures too. The temperature dependence of
the δ parameter calculated from the angular position of the nuclear
reflection and the width of the magnetic reflection supposing the same
intrinsic width as in the case of magnetic reflections observed for
lower Co concentrations is shown in Fig. 8(c). Its absolute value of
5.8(1) ×10⁻³ is clearly smaller than that for samples with a lower Co
content.

Figures 9(a)-9(f), which shows color-coded diffraction maps across the
(2 0 0)_(T) and the (0.5 0.5 1)_(T) reflection positions for the
x = 0.056 sample at three selected temperatures, document the fact that
for higher Co concentrations the magnetic order sets in at temperatures
lower than those at which O distortion occurs. To exclude possible λ/2
contamination at the magnetic reflection position originating from (1 1
2) nuclear reflection, data taken at 120 K were subtracted from data
shown in Figs. 9(d)-9(f). While at 85 K, that is, in the O distorted
phase [see Fig. 9(c)], the magnetic Bragg reflection is clearly present
[see Fig. 9(f)], it is missing at 95 K [see Fig. 9(e)], although at this
temperature the (2 0 0)_(T) reflection is still split [see Fig. 9(b)].
This can be seen by comparing its width with the measured width of the
(2 0)_(T) reflection in the tetragonal phase at 110 K, that is, above
T_(S) [see Fig. 9(a)]. The residual intensity shown in Figs. 9(d) and
9(e) is due to critical scattering as seen in the case of the x = 0.039
sample (see Fig. 7) and, for example, in pure BaFe₂As₂.[29]

The subject whether the SC and AF phases are mutually exclusive or
whether they can coexist in pure or doped A EFe₂As₂ (_AE_ = Ca, Sr, Ba)
systems is a greatly debated subject in the literature.[13; 19; 30; 31]
On the basis of neutron diffraction it has been shown that upon entering
the SC state, the magnetic signal decreases in BaFe₂As₂ and
Ba(Fe_(1 − x)Co_(x))₂As₂ systems.[13; 19] At the same time, the
orthorhombic distortion, manifested by the δ parameter, decreases.[32]
In Fig. 10, which shows the temperature dependence of the magnetic
reflection relative

Figure 6: (Color online) (a) Two-dimensional color map showing the
temperature dependence of a portion of the diffraction pattern around
the (2 0 0)_(T) Bragg reflection position measured on a
Ca(Fe_(1 − x)Co_(x))₂As₂ sample with x = 0.039 with increasing
temperature. (b) Corresponding temperature development measured at the
magnetic (0.5 0.5 1)_(T) reflection position. Temperature scales for
data were drawn to correspond to each other. The two solid lines denote
the T_(S) and T_(N) phase transition temperatures.

Figure 7: (Color online) Temperature dependence of the integrated
intensities measured at the (0 0 2)_(T) and the magnetic (1/2 1/2 3)_(T)
Bragg reflection positions upon cooling and warming of the
Ca(Fe_(1 − x)Co_(x))₂As₂ sample with x = 0.039 in the vicinity of the
T_(S) and T_(N) phase transition temperatures.

integrated intensities for the x = 0.056 sample together with the
electrical resistivity measured _in situ_ (normalized to the value at
$T_{\rm SC}$), we demonstrate that no bulk decrease in the magnetic
order parameter exists for the Ca(Fe_(1 − x)Co_(x))₂As₂ system.

Thanks to the existing one-to-one correspondence between O-split
magnetic and nuclear reflections, it is possible to calculate the
magnetic moment for each of the O-split domains by normalizing the
magnetic integrated intensities of the split (0.5 0.5 1)_(T) reflection
to the corresponding O-split nuclear reflections. In Fig. 11 we show the
temperature dependencies of the magnetic moments determined for
Ca(Fe_(1 − x)Co_(x))₂As₂ systems with various Co concentrations. For
lower x values, the low-temperature moment values do not decrease
significantly. However, for x ≥ 0.051, a clear reduction occurs. This
suggests a rather sudden loss of the magnetic moment with increasing Co
content. Also, the temperature dependencies are rather unusual. The
magnetic moment decreases for all concentrations with increasing
temperature, first rather slowly. At a temperature of 0.9 × T_(N) it
still amounts to ≈80

## IV The x-T phase diagram

In Fig. 12(a), the x-T phase diagram constructed from our magnetic bulk
measurements and neutron diffraction results, together with very few
literature data,[6; 19] is shown. For the pure CaFe₂As₂ system, the
anomalies marking the tetragonal to low-temperature orthorhombic
structural phase transition temperature T_(S) and the AF phase
transition temperature T_(N) ≈ 169 (1) K coincide. With increasing Co
substitution both transitions decrease in temperature but, at first,
remain undistinguishable. For samples with 0.039 ≤ x ≤ 0.056, both
transitions split and the T_(N) appears at increasingly lower
temperatures compared to T_(S). The saturated magnetic moment shown in
Fig. 12(b), determined at 1.7 K, also decreases with increasing x: at
first rather slowly, followed by a faster decay above x = 0.039. For a
sample with x = 0.063, no orthorhombic distortion and no long-range
magnetic order is observed. In Fig. 12(b) we also show the x dependence
of the

Figure 8: (Color online) (a) Temperature dependence of the integrated
intensity of the (2 0 0)_(T) reflection, the orthorhombically split
reflections originating from this reflection, and their sum measured
using the x = 0.051 sample upon heating. (b) Temperature dependence of
the integrated intensities of the two magnetic reflections originating
from the (0.5 0.5 1)_(T) reflection upon heating. (c) Temperature
dependencies of the splitting parameter δ = (a − b)/(a + b), calculated
from the above nuclear and magnetic reflections, measured with
increasing temperature.

Figure 9: (Color online) Color-coded diffraction maps showing the ω-2θ
angular distribution of the diffracted neutron intensities recorded at
the (2 0 0)_(T) Bragg reflection position as measured on an
Ca(Fe_(1 − x)Co_(x))₂As₂ sample with x = 0.056 (a) at 100 K (above
T_(S)), (b) at 95 K (below T_(S) but above T_(N)), and (c) at 85 K
(below T_(N)). (d–f) Similar angular distributions of the diffracted
intensities recorded at the same temperatures at the magnetic (1/2 1/2
1)_(T) reflection position. To exclude possible λ/2 contamination
originating from (1 1 2) nuclear reflection, data taken at 120 K were
subtracted in this case. Each panel represents a portion of data that
covers 3.68^(∘) along 2θ and 3.1^(∘) along ω.

parameter δ = (a − b)/(a + b) calculated from the splitting of the
nuclear reflections at 1.7 K. The inset in Fig. 12(b), showing the
dependence of the magnetic moment on the δ parameter, suggests a direct
linear correlation between the two quantities. In Fig. 12(a) we also
show the concentration dependence of the onset of the superconducting
phase transition temperature $T_{\rm SC}$ determined from the magnetic
susceptibility. In this figure we also include the temperature at which
the magnetic susceptibility for the x = 0.039 sample shows a downward
curvature, although no sign of bulk SC is observed. In this case, the
electrical resistivity does not drop to 0, suggestive of an SC
transition only in a small portion of the sample volume, below a
percolation limit. Indeed, magnetic susceptibility suggests that at this
doping level, only a minute amount of SC phase exists in the sample.

However, for x ≥ 0.051, bulk SC with zero resistivity appears at low
temperatures and peaks at more than with 90 vol

## V Discussion and conclusions

All our data clearly suggest that upon increasing the Co substitution
for Fe, the temperature range of the tetragonal crystal structure
stability gets extended to lower temperatures. At the same time, the
ordered moment decreases. This behavior seems to be a common feature for
all the AEFe₂As₂ (AE= Ca, Sr, Ba) systems. There is a clear
correspondence between the O distortion and the magnetic order, on one
side, and the stabilization of the T crystal structure and appearance of
an SC state at low temperatures, on the other, in all of these
compounds. A strong coupling between the magnetic state of the Fe and
the lattice in all the AEFe₂As₂ (AE= Ca, Sr, Ba) compound was recognized
early on the basis of conventional electronic structure
calculations.[33] However, the detailed temperature

Figure 11: (Color online) Magnitude of the magnetic moment per Fe/Co
site as a function of the temperature of Ca(Fe_(1 − x)Co_(x))₂As₂
samples with various Co concentrations determined from neutron
diffraction. Solid lines are guides for the eye.

Figure 12: (Color online) (a) x-T phase diagram of
Ca(Fe_(1 − x)Co_(x))₂As₂ determined from magnetic bulk and neutron
diffraction measurements showing the suppression of the structural and
magnetic phase transition temperatures and the appearance of
superconductivity at low temperatures upon increasing Co content. (b) x
dependence of the magnetic moment μ determined from neutron diffraction
data at 1.7 K together with the splitting parameter δ calculated from
the angular splitting of the nuclear reflections. Inset: Linear relation
between μ and δ. The δ value for x = 0 is taken from Goldman _et al.[6]_
Solid lines are guides for the eye; the vertical dashed line shows the
approximate x concentration above which the magnetism in the
Ca(Fe_(1 − x)Co_(x))₂As₂ system is lost.

Figure 10: (Color online) Temperature dependence of the relative
integrated intensities of the two orthorhombically split magnetic
reflections originating from the (0.5 0.5 1)_(T) reflection measured
upon heating for the x = 0.056 sample. _In situ_ electrical resistivity
measured simultaneously along the [1 1 0] direction and normalized to
its value at the superconducting phase transition temperature is shown
as well.

dependencies are still remarkably different for the different groups.
For Ba(Fe_(1 − x)Co_(x))₂As₂ compounds the suppression looks rather
smooth, with a clear antagonism between the AF order and the SC state at
low temperatures that even leads to an anomalous suppression of the O
distortion for a small interval of Co concentrations [32] and a decrease
in the scattered intensity due to AF order. [19] In contrast, our data
clearly suggest that in Ca(Fe_(1 − x)Co_(x))₂As₂, a sudden collapse of
magnetic order as measured both by magnetic bulk measurements and by
neutron diffraction occurs. Our data are in good agreement with several
recent works [20, 21, 22] but in clear disagreement with the work of
Kumar _et al._[12] suggesting that a sample with x = 0.03 is nonmagnetic
with a considerable amount of the so-called paramagnetic phase. While
the former fact cannot be explained easily without questioning the
correctness of the Co concentration, the latter result is rather
interesting, as it suggests the coexistence of several structural
phases. In fact, this coexistence was observed previously for a pure
CaFe₂As₂ system under quasihydrostatic [34] and uniaxial [35] pressure.
It seems to be tempting to conclude that the extreme sensitivity of
CaFe₂As₂ to pressure that is able even to transform the original T
crystal structure to another structure [the so-called volume-collapsed
tetragonal (cT) phase ] [36] with the same tetragonal symmetry, but with
the c-axis lattice parameter smaller by 9

It has been shown that in CaFe₂As₂ rather strong covalent Fe-As bonding
exists [19, 38] and that the calculated magnetic moment critically
depends on the positional parameter of the As atoms, the only free
structural parameter. When the experimental As atomic position is used
in the calculations, the ordered Fe magnetic moments are calculated to
be much larger than the experimental values, and the total energy of the
compound is not at its minimum. If the total energy of a compound is
minimized as a function of the As atomic position, a calculated Fe
moment much closer to the experimental value is obtained. It is our
working theory that the Co substitution causes subtle changes in the As
atomic position that significantly affect the strength of the Fe-As
covalent bonding and thus, also, the reduction of the ordered magnetic
moment and the c-axis parameter. Unfortunately, our diffraction
experiments were unable to determine the As positional parameter for
different Co concentrations with enough precision to support this claim.

The temperature dependencies of integrated intensities of the O-split (2
0 0)T reflections show, for the central peak (that consists of two
overlapping Bragg reflections originating from two O-split domains), an
increase just below the T_(S). This suggests that, for a certain
temperature range that increases with increasing Co content, the T and
the O phases coexist. This is also supported by the magnetic
susceptibility measurements, which show a gradual broadening of the
phase transition with increasing x and the claim by Kumar _et al._[12]
regarding the 40 vol

In conclusion, Ca(Fe_(1 − x)Co_(x))₂As₂ single crystals with x = 0.032,
0.039, 0.051, 0.056, and 0.063 were investigated by means of magnetic
bulk and neutron diffraction experiments combined with _in situ_
electrical resistivity over a broad temperature range. With increasing
Co content, the structural phase transition temperature T_(S), from the
tetragonal crystal structure with the space group I4/mmm to the
low-temperature orthorhombic structure with the space group Fmmm,
decreases toward lower temperatures. The AF phase transition temperature
T_(N) decreases as well and coincides for x ≤ 0.032 with T_(S). However,
the originally sharp character of the structural transition is lost and
the transition broadens significantly, indicating a range of
temperatures where both T and O phases coexist. For higher Co
concentrations both transitions split, with T_(N) decreasing more
rapidly, and eventually vanish for x ≥ 0.063. Finite hysteresis of T_(S)
upon cooling and warming suggests that the structural transition is of
the first-order type. The ordered magnetic moment gradually decreases
with increasing x. For samples with x = 0.063, no change in the crystal
structure and no long-range magnetic order are observed down to 1.7 K.
For x ≥ 0.051, bulk SC appears at low temperatures. The onset of the SC
transition temperature T_(SC) decreases with increasing Co content. The
constructed x-T phase diagram suggests that for the limited
concentration range 0.051 ≤ x ≤ 0.056, both long-range AF and SC
coexist. Comparison with Ba(Fe_(1 − x)Co_(x))₂As₂ indicates a more
abrupt disappearance of magnetic order in Ca(Fe_(1 − x)Co_(x))₂As₂ with
increasing x. Finally, we find a direct correspondence between the
magnitude of the ordered magnetic moment and the degree of orthorhombic
splitting.

###### Acknowledgements.

K.P. and D.N.A. acknowledge the Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft for
support under the priority program SPP 1458 and Contract No. AR 613/1-2.

## References

* Kamihara et al. (2006) Y. Kamihara, H. Hiramatsu, M. Hirano, R.
Kawamura, H. Yanagi, T. Kamiya, and H. Hosono, J. Am. Chem. Soc.
**128**, 10012 (2006). * Rotter et al. (2008) M. Rotter, M. Tegel, and
D. Johrendt, Phys. Rev. Lett. **101**, 107006 (2008). * Ishida et al.
(2009) Y. Ishida, F. Nakai, and H. Hosono, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **78**,
062001 (2009). * Canfield et al. (2009) P. C. Canfield, S. L. Bud’ko, N.
Ni, A. Kreyssig, A. I. Goldman, R. J. McQueeney, M. S. Torikachvili, D.
N. Argyriou, G. Luke, and W. Yu, Physica C **469**, 404 (2009). *
Krellner et al. (2008) C. Krellner, N. Caroca-Canales, A. Jesche, H.
Rosner, A. Ormecci, and C. Geibel, Phys. Rev. B **78**, 100504(R)
(2008). * Goldman et al. (2008) A. I. Goldman, D. N. Argyriou, B.
Ouladdiaf, T. Chatterji, A. Kreyssig, S. Nandi, N. Ni, S. L. Bud’ko, P.
C. Canfield, and R. J. McQueeney, Phys. Rev. B **78**, 100506(R)
(2008). * Sefat et al. (2008) A. S. Sefat, R. Jin, M. A. McGuire, B. C.
Sales, D. J. Singh, and D. Mandrus, Phys. Rev. Lett. **101**, 117004
(2008). * Takahashi et al. (2008) H. Takahashi, K. Igawa, K. Arii, Y.
Kamihara, M. Hirano, and H. Hosono, Nature **453**, 376 (2008). *
Torikachvili et al. (2008) M. S. Torikachvili, S. L. Bud’ko, N. Ni, and
P. C. Canfield, Phys. Rev. Lett. **101**, 057006 (2008). * Han et al.
(2009) M. J. Han, Q. Yin, W. E. Pickett, and S. Y. Savrasov, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **102**, 107003 (2009). * Tanatar et al. (2009) M. A. Tanatar, N.
Ni, G. D. Samolyuk, S. L. Bud’ko, P. C. Canfield, and R. Prozorov, Phys.
Rev. B **79**, 134528 (2009). * Kumar et al. (2009) N. Kumar, R.
Nagalakshmi, R. Kulkarni, P. L. Paulose, A. K. Nigam, S. K. Dhar, and A.
Thamizhavel, Phys. Rev. B **79**, 012504 (2009). * Ni et al. (2008) N.
Ni, M. E. Tillman, J.-Q. Yan, A. Kracher, S. T. Hannahs, S. L. Bud’ko,
and P. C. Canfield, Phys. Rev. B **78**, 214515 (2008). * Pratt et al.
(2009) D. K. Pratt, W. Tian, A. Kreyssig, J. L. Zarestky, S. Nandi, N.
Ni, S. L. Bud’ko, P. C. Canfield, A. I. Goldman, and R. J. McQueeney,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **103**, 087001 (2009). * Canfield et al. (2009) P. C.
Canfield, S. L. Bud’ko, N. Ni, J. Q. Yan, and A. Kracher, Phys. Rev. B
**80**, 060501(R) (2009). * Bonville et al. (2010) P. Bonville, F.
Rullier-Albenque, D. Colson, and A. Forget, Euro Phys. Lett. **89**,
67008 (2010). * Leithe-Jasper et al. (2008) A. Leithe-Jasper, W.
Schnelle, C. Geibel, and H. Rosner, Phys. Rev. Lett. **101**, 207004
(2008). * Khasanov et al. (2009) R. Khasanov, A. Maisuradze, H. Maeter,
A. Kwadrin, H. Luetkens, A. Amato, W. Schnelle, H. Rosner, A.
Leithe-Jasper, and H. H. Klauss, Phys. Rev. Lett. **103**, 067010
(2009). * Johnston (2010) D. C. Johnston, Adv. Phys. **59**, 803
(2010). * Klingeler et al. (2010) R. Klingeler, N. Leps, I. Hellmann, A.
Popa, U. Stockert, C. Hess, V. Kataev, H.-J. Grafe, F. Hammerath, G.
Lang, S. Wurmehl, G. Behr, L. Harnagea, S. Singh, and B. Buchner, Phys.
Rev. B **81**, 024506 (2010). * Pramanik et al. (2010) A. K. Pramanik,
L. Harnagea, S. Singh, S. Aswartham, G. Behr, S. Wurmehl, C. Hess, R.
Klingeler, and B. Buchner, Phys. Rev. B **82**, 014503 (2010). *
Harnagea et al. (2010) L. Harnagea, S. Singh, G. Friemel, N. Leps, D.
Bombor, M. Abdel-Hafiez, A. U. B. Wolter, C. Hess, R. Klingeler, G.
Behr, and B. Buchner (accepted for publication). * Ni et al. (2008) N.
Ni, S. Nandi, A. Kreyssig, A. I. Goldman, E. D. Mun, S. L. Bud’ko, and
P. C. Canfield, Phys. Rev. B **78**, 014523 (2008). * Li et al. (2009)
H. Li, W. Tian, J. L. Zarestky, A. Kreyssig, N. Ni, S. L. Bud’ko, P. C.
Canfield, A. I. Goldman, R. J. McQueeney, and D. Vaknin, Phys. Rev. B
**80**, 054407 (2009). * Tanatar et al. (2009) M. A. Tanatar, A.
Kreyssig, S. Nandi, N. Ni, S. L. Bud’ko, P. C. Canfield, A. I. Goldman,
and R. Prozorov, Phys. Rev. B **79**, 180508(R) (2009). * Dong et al.
(2008) J. K. Dong, L. Ding, H. Wang, X. F. Wang, T. Wu, G. Wu, X. H.
Chen, and S. Y. Li, New J. Phys. **10**, 123031 (2008). * Yan et al.
(2008) J.-Q. Yan, A. Kreyssig, S. Nandi, N. Ni, S. L. Bud’ko, A.
Kracher, R. J. McQueeney, R. W. McCallum, T. A. Lograsso, A. I. Goldman,
and P. C. Canfield, Phys. Rev. B **78**, 024516 (2008). * Curro et al.
(2009) N. J. Curro, A. P. Dioguardi, N. ApRoberts-Warren, A. C.
Shockley, and P. Klavins, New J. Phys. **11**, 075004 (2009). * Wilson
et al. (2009) S. D. Wilson, Z. Yamani, C. R. Rotundu, B. Freelon, E.
Bourret-Courchesne, and R. J. Birgeneau, Phys. Rev. B. **79**, 184519
(2009). * Mazin et al. (2008) I. I. Mazin, D. J. Singh, M. D. Johannes,
and M. H. Du, Phys. Rev. Lett. **101**, 057003 (2008). * Fernandes et
al. (2010) R. M. Fernandes, D. K. Pratt, W. Tian, J. L. Zarestky, A.
Kreyssig, S. Nandi, M. G. Kim, A. Thaler, N. Ni, P. C. Canfield, R. J.
McQueeney, J. Schmalian, and A. I. Goldman, Phys. Rev. B **81**,
140501(R) (2010). * Nandi et al. (2010) S. Nandi, M. G. Kim, A.
Kreyssig, R. M. Fernandes, D. K. Pratt, A. Thaler, N. Ni, S. L. Bud’ko,
P. C. Canfield, J. Schmalian, R. J. McQueeney, and A. I. Goldman, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **104**, 057006 (2010). * Singh (2009) K. D. Singh, Physica C
**469**, 418 (2009). * Goldman et al. (2009) A. I. Goldman, A. Kreyssig,
K. Prokes, D. K. Pratt, D. N. Argyriou, J. W. Lynn, S. Nandi, S. A. J.
Kimber, Y. Chen, Y. B. Lee, G. D. Samolyuk, J. B. Leao, S. J. Poulton,
S. L. Bud’ko, N. Ni, P. C. Canfield, B. N. Harmon, and R. J. McQueeney,
Phys. Rev. B **79**, 024513 (2009). * Prokes et al. (2010) K. Prokes, A.
Kreyssig, B. Ouladdiaf, D. K. Pratt, N. Ni, S. L. Bud’ko, P. C.
Canfield, R. J. McQueeney, D. N. Argyriou, and A. I. Goldman, Phys. Rev.
B **81**, 180506(R) (2010).

* (36) A. Kreyssig, M. A. Green, Y. B. Lee, G. D. Samolyuk, P. Zajdel,
J. W. Lynn, S. L. Bud’ko, M. S. Torikachvili, N. Ni, S. Nandi, J. B.
Leao, S. J. Poulton, D. N. Argyriou, B. N. Harmon, R. J. McQueeney, P.
C. Canfield, and A. I. Goldman, Phys. Rev. B **78**, 184517 (2008). *
(37) R. Mittal, S. K. Mishra, S. L. Chaplot, S. V. Ovsyannikov, E.
Greenberg, D. M. Trots, L. Dubronvinsky, Y. Su, T. Bruckel, S.
Matsuishi, H. Hosono, and G. Garbarino, Phys. Rev. B **83** 054503
(2011). * (38) K. D. Belashchenko and V. P. Antropov, Phys. Rev. B
**78**, 212505 (2008). * (39) S. A. J. Kimber, A. Kreyssig, Y.-Z. Zhang,
H. O. Jeschke, R. Valenti, F. Yokaichiya, E. Colombier, J. Yan, T. C.
Hansen, T. Chatterji, R. J. McQueeney, P. C. Canfield, A. I. Goldman,
and D. N. Argyriou, Nat. Mater. **8**, 471 (2009).
