# Temperature and doping dependence of the Bi2.1Sr1.9CaCu2O8+-_d_
pseudogap and superconducting gap

Azusa Matsuda, Satoshi Sugita, and Takao Watanabe

NTT Basic Research Laboratories, 3-1 Morinosato Wakamiya, Atsugi-shi,
Kanagawa 243-01, Japan

19 June 1998June 1998June 1998June 1998June 1998June 1998

###### Abstract

The temperature and doping dependence of Bi2.1Sr1.9CaCu2O8+-_d_ vacuum
tunneling spectra was measured. The tunneling spectra show a clear
gaplike feature for almost all the measured temperatures (10-300 K) and
doping levels [overdoped (T_(c)∼80 K) to underdoped (T_(c)∼ -80 K), via
optimum-doped (T_(c)∼ -90 K)]. The superconducting gap structure below
T_(c) develops into a pseudogap above T_(c) . The model analysis based
on the BCS-type density of states showed a sudden increase in the gap
value and inelastic scattering rate at T_(c) . [S0163-1829(99)14825-2]

## I Introduction

It is well established that the electronic properties of high-T_(c)
cuprates are very different from those of conventional metals. In this
respect, the pseudogap phenomenon is one of the most striking features
ever observed.[1; 2; 3] Recently angle-resolved photoemission
spectroscopy (ARPES) experiments[4] have provided direct evidence of the
pseudogap opening in the normal state. However, knowledge of the
detailed behavior of the pseudogap over the complete temperature-doping
level phase diagram is required in order to characterize the pseudogap
itself. In the ARPES experiments, unoccupied states cannot be accessed,
and hence some characteristic behavior may have been overlooked.
Electron tunneling, on the other hand, can provide a single-electron
density of state, similar to ARPES, and can also easily probe unoccupied
states. Recently, Renner _et al.[5]_ reported scanning tunnel microscope
(STM) observation of pseudogap formation.

This paper examines the characteristics of the pseudogap by looking at
the temperature and doping dependence of the electronic density of
states (DOS) in the Bi2Sr2CaCu2O8 (BSCCO) system. BSCCO is a suitable
material for tunneling, particularly for a STM study, for the technical
reason that a clean surface can be easily obtained. However, it is
somewhat difficult to control the doping level without degrading the
sample transport properties. We recently succeeded in controlling the
oxygen content of BSCCO crystals and hence the doping level without
degrading the sample quality.[6] We used an improved annealing process
in which an equilibrium oxygen pressure is maintained over almost the
whole temperature range during annealing. BSCCO single crystals were
grown using a traveling solvent floating zone method. Their actual
composition is Bi2.1Sr1.9CaCu2O. . In the present study, we prepared
samples with five different doping levels. All samples were taken from a
single boule, which was also used in the transport measurements.[6] The
lower curve in Fig. 1 represents T_(c) as a function of the oxygen
content. T_(c) was determined by resistive and magnetic measurements. In
our definition, an oxygen content (_x_) of 8.25 (T_(c)∼ 90 K)
corresponds to optimum doping. T_(c) varied by at most 10 K for both
over- and underdoped sides. Although the T_(c) variation was relatively
small, the corresponding change in the tunneling DOS was significant.

## II Experiment

We developed a STM unit that can operate at low temperatures in a high
vacuum. To approach a sample, we designed an inertial piezoelectric
slide with shear piezoelectric devices, which works at low temperature
(down to 10 K). Since the sample approach must be repeated almost every
time the sample temperature is changed, preciseness is essential for
obtaining reproducible data. The STM unit is placed in a vacuum chamber,
which is set in a vessel of liquid He. The sample temperature can be
changed from room temperature to about 10 K by controlling a heater
attached to the sample block, which is loosely heat contacted to a
coolant in the vessel.

The sample was cleaved in a flowing N2 gas atmosphere (not a completely
closed condition) and immediately (within several minutes) transferred
to the vacuum chamber. The sample was mounted so that the STM tip faced
the BSCCO _ab_ plane. The pressure of the vacuum chamber was in the
mid-10⁻⁷-torr range at room temperature and reached 1 ×10⁻⁸ torr when
the chamber was cooled. We used mechanically cut Pt-Ir tips and
electrochemically etched W tips. Both provide an essentially identical
tunneling spectrum. Al

Figure 1: Oxygen content dependence of T_(c) and the superconducting gap
value (Δ = V_(peak)). The open circles represents the superconducting
gap value measured by the tunnel experiment at the lowest temperature.
The open square at x = 8.22 indicates the gap value at 50 K. The lower
curve shows the resistively and magnetically determined T_(c) .

though our STM has sufficient atomic resolution, which can easily be
checked by taking a graphite atomic image, we could not obtain a stable
atomic image of the BSCCO surface in the normal tip condition. By using
a different UHV STM, in which _in situ_ cleaving is possible, we
confirmed that cleaving in a flowing N₂ gas causes a problem. However,
as far as the tunneling spectrum is concerned, we confirmed that
cleaving in a flowing N₂ gas does not cause any essential difference at
room temperature. We have also checked that our spectra do not depend on
the sample-tip distance

_I-V_ characteristics were acquired by ramping the bias voltage while
the feedback loop was cut. To obtain _I-V_ for one place, eight to ten
_I-V_ measurements were averaged. The data from five to eight places
were averaged again and were numerically differentiated with a finite
window. We confirmed that numerical processing does not affect the
essential shape of the _d1IdV_ curves, if the sweep voltage is less than
+-250 mV. The _I-V_ were typically taken at I = 0.3 nA and V = 0.5 V
hence the actual conductance was around several (_G_$\Upomega$)-1. The
obtained temperature dependence of the _d1IdV_ curves is plotted as a
function of the sample voltage for the optimum-doped sample in Fig. 2
and for the overdoped (_x_ = 8.28) and underdoped (_x_ = 8.22) samples
in Figs. 3(a) and 3(b). In Fig. 3, all data were plotted without
shifting the _d1IdV_ axis. Here _d1IdV_ is proportional to the
single-electron DOS. The series of data was normalized so that the
positive sides of background DOS coincide with each other. As can be
seen, the negative-side background DOS has a rather large temperature
dependence. Almost all samples showed an asymmetric background (Fig. 2).
However, the sharpness of the gap structure depends in a somewhat
uncontrollable way for the underdoped sample on the position of a tip
and the measurement conditions. Although we cannot rule out spatial
inhomogeneity, we consider that the main cause of such a broadening
comes from an additional inelastic tunneling process due to the
contamination of the tip. We selected the condition in which the DOS
peaks are as sharp as those for optimum and overdoped samples. During
the temperature change, we could not trace the same position because of
the coarse approach required and because of a large image shift due to
thermal expansion.

## III Data Analysis

### General characteristics

One of the characteristic features observed in our tunneling spectrum is
the apparent asymmetry in the background conductance. In our setup,
negative (positive) bias reflects the DOS below (above) the Fermi energy
(E_(F)). This will be discussed in detail elsewhere. Here, we only point
out that, according to our doping dependence results, this asymmetry may
come from a band structure effect. In the lowest-temperature range
(11-14 K) in our STM, the gap structure also depends on the doping.
Here, we only present the doping dependence of the gap value D, which is
half of the distance of the two peaks in energy. This is shown by the
upper curve in Fig. 1. The error bars represent the uncer

Figure 3: Temperature dependence of tunneling DOS for (a) the overdoped
(_x_ = 8.28, 14 K<_T_<240 K) and (b) the underdoped sample (_x_ = 8.22,
12 K<_T_<300 K). All the data were plotted on the same axes.

Figure 2: Temperature dependence of tunneling DOS for the optimum doped
sample (_x_ = 8.25). The tendency of gap formation can be seen at 300 K.
Data are normalized to 2.5 at −250 mV. At the T_(c) , of the sample,
some characteristic changes take place.

tainty possibly due to the spatial inhomogeneity. The gap values are
fairly large compared to the BCS value (2 D_l_/_kT__c_ >= 12).7 The gap
value follows its T_(c) in the lowest-temperature range. However, the
unexpected temperature dependence of the gap in the underdoped sample
[see Fig. 5(a)] and possible spatial dependence may invalidate a simple
comparison at lowest temperatures. If we take the averaged gap value
below T_(c) or the gap value at higher temperatures (open squares in
Fig. 1), it monotonically increases with the decreasing doping level, as
reported in other experiments.5,8,10

Figures 2 and 3 show that the gap like feature remains above T_(c) for
all doping levels. We identify it as a pseudogap. We define the
pseudogap opening temperature _T_* at which the normalized DOS (see the
following discussion for the definition), at V = 0, becomes 0.9 times
its full value. For samples with x = 8.28, 8.27 (not shown), and 8.25,
_T_* is around 220, 270, and 300 K, respectively. In the case of BSCCO,
the pseudogap always opens above T_(c) irrespective of the doping level.
This observation is consistent with the STM result of Renner _et al._5
but conflicts with several other experiments.4,9,10 Here we point out
two facts which support our observation. We have shown that the BSCCO
_c_-axis conduction is governed by a simple tunneling process.11 Then
the _c_-axis resistivity r_(c) should reflect the in-plane DOS. If we
define T0, at which r_(c) starts to increase, then they become 200, 240,
and over 300 K.6 The static spin susceptibility _kh__s_ has a similar
tendency. In the case of BSCCO, it starts to reduce at _Tm_ even in the
overdoped sample as if the spin excitation acquires a gap.8 The _kh__s_
measurement of our single crystals shows a _Tm_ of 210, 240, and, 300 K
for x = 8.28, 8.27 and 8.25. The coincidence of _T_*, T0, and _Tm_ is
easily understood if one considers that the DOS starts to reduce at _T_*
as observed in our tunneling measurement. However, break-junction-type
tunneling measurements9,10 show a different behavior, exhibiting no
strong evidence of a pseudogap above T_(c). The origin of this
discrepancy is unknown at the present time and requires further study.
The ARPES observations4 showed that the pseudogap opens only below
optimum doping. One of the factors that might prevent ARPES measurements
from detecting the pseudogap in overdoped crystals may be the
significant asymmetry of the pseudogap structure in energy as seen in
Fig. 3(a). The figure shows that only the positive-side DOS, which ARPES
cannot probe, retains a detectable BCS-like feature above T_(c). This
asymmetry develops significantly above T_(c).

Besides the above-mentioned asymmetry, two other characteristic changes
can be observed at T_(c). The BCS-like DOS peak rapidly loses its
sharpness and the residual DOS at 0 V rapidly increases at around T_(c).
These changes can be understood as a rapid increase in the electron
inelastic scattering rate due to the disappearance of superconductivity.
The pseudogap does not completely suppress the inelastic scattering. The
structure appearing at around - 150 mV gradually diminishes and finally
vanishes at around T_(c). The existence of this structure and its
disappearance at T_(c) have been mentioned by many authors.7,12 Here, we
point out that the temperature development is rather gradual and the
change may be interpreted in terms of the increase in the scattering
rate with increasing temperature. Especially in the underdoped sample
[Fig. 3(b)], the peak is rather spread even at the lowest temperature
and seems to gradually merge into the background, giving a rather large
redistribution of the DOS for the negative side. We cannot distinguish
if the structure is accompanied by superconductivity.

### Analysis using a BCS-type density of states

The systematic temperature evolution of the DOS enables us to analyze
the data in a more quantitative way. To do so, we need to subtract the
background DOS. Since there is a pseudogap above T_(c) and there may
also be a gradual redistribution of the DOS over a wide energy range,
i.e., +- 500 mV or so, we cannot find an unambiguous way of subtracting
the background, which would be available if the gap were absent. Here,
we simply construct the background as two linear lines whose slopes are
matched to the experimental DOS at around +- 250 mV. Then we compare the
normalized data, which are calculated by dividing the original data by
the background, with the smeared BCS-type DOS (Dynes formula). We assume
the BCS-type DOS with a _d_-wave symmetry gap for both the
superconducting and pseudogap states.13

$n_{0}(E) = (1/2\pi)\,d\,\theta\,{\rm Re}\,[(E - i\Gamma)/\sqrt{(E - i\Gamma)^{2} - \Delta^{2}(\theta)}]$,
and n(0) = ∫dEn₀(E)[−∂f(E_(f))/∂E]. Here, Δ(θ)[ = Δ_(max)cos (2θ)] is a
gap function, G is a generally energy- and temperature-dependent
scattering rate, and f is a Fermi function. In Fig. 4, the normalized
DOS for the optimum-doped sample are plotted together with the results
of the BCS fitting. Generally, the fitting becomes worse for lower
temperatures and higher doping levels. However, above 70 K, the fittings
for the positive side of the DOS become excellent in any case. Above
T_(c), to account for the sudden decrease in the DOS peak intensity, we
consider the additional energy dependence in G like G(_E_,_T_) =
g0(_T_) + g1(_T_)/1 + exp- (|E| - E0)/_W_, which introduces a step-like
increase in G at E = E0 D. This kind of behavior is expected as a
natural consequence of losing true supercon

Figure 4: Temperature dependence of normalized DOS for the optimum-doped
sample. The dotted and dot-dashed lines represent results of the BCS
fitting with energy-independent and -dependent G. The dashed line at 120
K shows the BCS fitting with Δ = 55 mV.

ducting order above T_(c) . In Fig. 4, the dotted and dash-dotted lines
represent the results with an energy-independent and -dependent (E₀ = 50
mV, W = 5 mV) Γ. At 120 K, both lines are plotted for comparison. Note
that our assumed Γ is still suppressed from that expected by the Γ ∼ E
relation at around the gap edge, indicating that not all scattering
channels are available at this energy. The introduction of an
energy-dependent Γ has very little effect on determining the value of
Δ_(max) and Γ at E = 0. Note that the negative-side DOS deviates
systematically from the BCS curves. This does not indicate a poor BCS
fitting but suggests the existence of an additional structure in the
background DOS. The details of this will be published elsewhere.

In Fig. 5(a), Δ_(max)(T) obtained as a result of the fitting is plotted
for several doping levels. The error bars include both the spatial
variation and a fitting uncertainty. In the pseudogap state, the gap
value is essentially temperature independent and a monotonically
decreasing function of the doping level. We identify it as a pseudogap
value. The decrease in the gap of the overdoped sample above 200 K
indicates that the gap is closing at this temperature. The Δ_(max)
suddenly decreases when the sample goes into the superconducting state
for all doping levels. The steplike decrease can be seen in Fig. 4 as an
anomalous DOS peak shift at about 100 K. For the 120 K data, the BCS
calculation assuming a gap the same as that at 14 K (55 mV) is plotted
as a dashed line. The apparent difference in the peak position confirms
that the steplike increase is a general feature of the data and is
beyond the specific analysis used here. The decrease in Δ_(max) below
T_(c) for the underdoped sample looks strange. However, since the DOS at
around 2Δ increases with decreasing temperature below T_(c) , as shown
in Fig. 3(b), the superconducting condensation energy may not decrease
even in the underdoped sample. This suggests that the gap value is not a
good measure of T_(c) particularly in the underdoped region. Our results
here on the temperature dependence of the gap again conflict with
superconducting-insulating-superconducting (SIS) tunneling measurements
[9, 10] while vacuum tunneling measurements [5] support our results. The
origin of this difference in behavior between STM and SIS break
junctions requires further investigation. One may consider that the
pseudogap is a sort of a band structure either of the Bi-O or the Cu-O
electronic system and that the strongly energy-dependent background
alters the DOS peak position. However, it is very unlikely because if we
normalize the DOS in the superconducting state by that of just above
T_(c) , as shown in Fig. 6, the shape of the superconducting gap
structure becomes far from acceptable. The resulting DOS gives a very
small dip for |V| < Δ, while gigantic peaks at |V| = Δ. Our data suggest
that the pseudogap is continuously replaced by the superconducting gap
at T_(c) . The interpretation of the pseudogap as a superconducting
fluctuation seems to be inadequate since the pseudogap is apparently
larger than the superconducting gap. Note that the pseudogap value
becomes comparable to the spin exchange energy J.

In Fig. 5(b), Γ (0,T) is plotted for several doping levels. In our
samples, Γ was suppressed to a small value compared to kT, below T_(c) .
However, when superconductivity is lost, it begins to increase as
expected. The Γ in the pseudogap state shows a T linear dependence and
falls between the 2kT and kT line. It is consistent with the inelastic
scattering rate derived from the transport measurements.

## IV Summary

In summary, the tunneling spectra show a clear gallike feature for
almost all measured temperatures (10-300 K) and

Figure 5: (a) The fitted results of Δ for several doping levels. (b) The
fitted result of Γ at E = 0. Error bars indicate both spatial variation
and fitting uncertainty.

Figure 6: Temperature dependence of normalized DOS of the underdoped
sample below 100 K. In this figure, each DOS was normalized by the DOS
at 100 K.

doping levels [overdoped (_T_(c)∼_ 80 K) to underdoped (_T_(c)∼_ 80 K),
via optimum-doped (_T_(c)∼_ 90K)]. The gap structure below _T_(c)_
develops into a pseudogap above _T_(c)_ with some characteristic changes
at _T_(c)_ . The pseudogap opening temperature _T*_ coincides with the
temperature at which _c_-axis resistivity shows a characteristic upturn
and static susceptibility starts to decrease. An analysis based on
BCS-like DOS showed that the pseudogap is larger than the
superconducting gap. The temperature dependence of the gap value
exhibits very different behavior when compared to that of the BCS
relation.

###### Acknowledgements.

We would like to thank Takenori Fujii for his sample characterization
and Dr. Kouichi Semba and Dr. Michio Naito for their valuable
discussions.

## References

* [1] H. Yasuoka, T. Imai, and T. Shimizu in _Strong Correlation and
Superconductivity_, edited by H. Fukuyama, S. Maekawa, and A. P.
Malozemoff (Springer, Berlin, 1989), Vol. 89, p. 254; W. W. Warren, R.
E. Walstedt, G. F. Brennert, R. J. Cava, R. Tycko, R. F. Bell, and G.
Dabbagh, Phys. Rev. Lett. **62**, 1193 (1989). * [2] J. Rossat-Mignot,
L. P. Regnault, C. Vettier, P. Bourges, P. Burlet, J. Bossy, J. Y.
Henry, and G. Lapertot, Physica B **180-181**, 383 (1992). * [3] J. W.
Loram, K.A. Mirza, J.R. Cooper, and W. Y. Liang, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**71**, 1740 (1993); T. Ito, K. Takenaka, and S. Uchida, _ibid._**70**,
3995 (1993); D. N. Basov, R. Liang, B. Dabrowski, D. A. Bonn, W. N.
Hardy, and T. Timusk, _ibid._**77**, 4090 (1996). * [4] H. Ding, T.
Yokoya, J. C. Campuzano, T. Takahashi, M. Randeria, M. R. Norman, T.
Mochiku, K. Kadowaki, and J. Giapintzakis, Nature (London) **382**, 51
(1996); D. S. Marshall, D. S. Dessau, A.G. Loeser, C-H. Park, A. Y.
Matsuura, J. N. Eckstein, I. Bozovic, P. Fournier, A. Kapitulnik, W. E.
Spicer, and Z.-X. Shen, Phys. Rev. Lett. **76**, 4841 (1996). * [5] C.
Renner, B. Revaz, J.Y. Genoud, K. Kadowaki, and $\O$. Fischer, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **80**, 149 (1998). * [6] T. Watanabe, T. Fujii, and A.
Matsuda, Phys. Rev. Lett. **79**, 2113 (1997). * [7] C. Renner and $\O$.
Fischer, Phys. Rev. B **51**, 9208 (1995). * [8] M. Oda, R. Kubota, K.
Hoya, C. Manabe, N. Momono, T. Nakano, and M. Ido, Physica C **281**,
135 (1997). * [9] D. Mandrus, J. Hartge, C. Kendziora, L. Mihaly, and L.
Forro, Europhys. Lett. **22**, 199 (1993). * [10] N. Miyakawa, P.
Guptasarma, J. F. Zasadzinski, D. G. Hinks, and K. E. Gray, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **80**, 157 (1998). * [11] T. Watanabe and A. Matsuda, Phys. Rev.
B **54**, R6881 (1996). * [12] M. R. Norman, H. Ding, J. C. Campuzano,
T. Takeuchi, M. Randeria, T. Yokoya, T. Takahashi, T. Mochiku, and K.
Kadowaki, Phys. Rev. Lett. **79**, 3506 (1997). * [13] G. V. M.
Williams, J. L. Tallon, E. M. Haines, R. Michalak, and R. Dupree, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **78**, 721 (1997).
