# Correlation of anomalous normal state properties with
superconductivity in Pb1-_x_-_y_Tl_l_n_y_Te

A. S. Erickson,^(1, 2) N. P. Breznay,² E. A. Nowadnick,^(1, 3) T. H.
Geballe,^(1, 2) and I. R. Fisher^(1, 2)

¹Stanford Institute for Materials and Energy Sciences, SLAC National
Accelerator Laboratory, 2575 Sand Hill Road, Menlo Park, California
94025, USA

²Geballe Laboratory for Advanced Materials and Department of Applied
Physics, Stanford University, California 94305, USA

³Geballe Laboratory for Advanced Materials and Department of Physics,
Stanford University, California 94305, USA

³Geballe Laboratory for Advanced Materials and Department of Physics,
Stanford University, California 94305, USA

###### Abstract

Recent evidence for a charge-Kondo effect in superconducting samples of
Pb1-_x_Tl,Te has brought renewed attention to the possibility of
negative U superconductivity in this material, associated with valence
fluctuations on the Tl impurity sites. Here, we use indium as an
electron donor to counterdope Pb₉₉Tl01Te and study the effect of
changing the chemical potential on the Kondo-type physics and the
superconductivity. We find a clear correlation between these two
effects, providing further evidence that both are induced by the same
source, as anticipated in the charge-Kondo model.

2009 10.1103/PhysRevB.81.134521 PACS number(s): 74.25.F-, 71.55.Gs,
74.20.Mn, 74.62.Dh 134521

## I Introduction

When doped with more than _x_c = 0.3

Valence skipping impurities can be described by a Hubbard model with a
negative value of the parameter, U, the charging energy for having two
electrons on the same impurity site,^(7, 11) and indeed Tl impurities in
PbTe have been described in this manner by a number of
authors.^(9, 12 − 14) If one allows the quasilocal impurity states to
interact with the valence band of the host, the resulting model must be
formulated in the grand canonical ensemble, in which case it is easy to
see that the energy difference between the empty shell Tl⁺³ and the
filled-shell Tl⁺ state depends on the chemical potential, μ.^(13, 14) If
the energy difference between these two states is small, it may be
possible to adjust the chemical potential through doping to a particular
value, μ= μ_(c), for which the energy difference between these two
states vanishes. It has been suggested that this is exactly what happens
in Tl-doped PbTe when the Tl concentration reaches _x_c.^(1, 14) For Tl
concentrations beyond this value the chemical potential remains pinned
at μ_(c), yielding a mixture of +1 and +3 valence states,⁹ consistent
with the Hall data described above.

With degenerate impurity charge states differing by two electrons,
pairwise scattering of charge carriers from negative U impurities is
strongly favored. The resulting charge fluctuation at the impurity site
constitutes a change of the formal valence between the two resonant
charge states and can be described in terms of a pseudospin flip in an
analogous model to that which describes the traditional Kondo effect
associated with dilute magnetic impurities in a metal.¹⁵ In addition to
contributing a Kondo-type behavior through the pseudospin flip
scattering channel,^(12, 14, 15) which yields an associated resistance
minimum and peak in the density of states at the Fermi level, this
resonant two-electron scattering can further serve as a mechanism of
forming Cooper pairs between valence-band holes, providing a possible
realization of negative-_U_ superconductivity. We have previously used
this charge-Kondo model to describe the correlation between the onset of
superconductivity in Tl-doped PbTe with the associated anomalous
low-temperature scattering.^(1, 14) Here we further test the correlation
between these two effects by deliberately tuning the Fermi level for a
given Tl concentration by use of an additional counterdopant, indium.

The correlation between chemical potential pinning and superconductivity
has previously been studied in the cases of Pb1-_x_-_y_Tl,Li,Te (Ref.
[16]) and Pb1-_x_-_y_Tl,Na₃Te,^(17, 18) where Li and Na counterdopants
were used to inject additional holes, while keeping a fixed Tl
concentration. In those cases, moving the chemical potential away from
the critical value, μ_(c), resulted in a suppression of _T_c,^(16, 17)
consistent with the expectations of the negative-_U_ picture described
above. However, the associated anomalous charge-Kondo behavior was not
explored in this regime and it remains an outstanding question as to
whether the low-_T_ resistivity upturn observed for superconducting
Tl-doped PbTe is suppressed simultaneously. If this is found to be the
case, it would be further evidence for the applicability of the
charge-Kondo model to this system, and by extension, for the validity of
a negative-U pairing interaction.

Before considering the mixed case of Pb1-x-yTlIn${}_{\rm{y}}$Te, it is
first worth briefly reviewing the behavior of indium impurities in the
simpler system Pb1-yIn${}_{\rm{y}}$Te since In itself is also a
valence-skipping element. For very low concentrations, In impurities in
PbTe act as a donors, indicating a +3 formal valence. However, the
carrier concentration is almost immediately pinned at around 8 x 1018
cm-3, even though the indium concentration can reach up to 20

In the present case, we use In as a counterdopant to tune the chemical
potential in Pb0.99-yTl0.01In${}_{\rm{y}}$Te, for a fixed Tl
concentration, x = 1.0(3)

## II II. Experimental Methods

Single crystals of Pb1-x-yTlIn${}_{\rm{y}}$Te were grown using the same
physical vapor-transport method we have described previously.[8] The
composition was measured by electron microprobe analysis (EMPA), using
PbTe, In metal, and Tl2Te standards. The results of these measurements
are shown in Table 1. Relatively large standard deviations for the Tl
impurity concentration likely reflect slight inhomogeneity across any
given sample. It should be noted, though, that it is difficult to
measure such small concentrations of Tl accurately due to a combination
of the proximity of strong Pb lines in the collected spectrum and also
because the energies of thallium _k_- and _l_-shell lines happen to
occur toward the edges of the x-ray photodetectors on the EMPA
instrument. Thus, the count rate for thallium measurements is abnormally
low, even considering the low dopant concentrations, and resulting
standard deviations for Tl are particularly high, even when counting
time is extended to two minutes. Since each batch was grown
independently, it was not possible to maintain exactly equal Tl
concentrations throughout the series. However, since all samples were
within one standard deviation of the average value x = 1.0

Bars were cleaved from single crystals for electrical transport
measurements. Resistivity data were obtained at frequencies of 13.5,
13.7, or 37 Hz, and current densities along the [100] direction of order
100 mA/cm2 at temperatures above 1.8 K and 10 mA/cm2 for data taken
below 1.8 K, using a Quantum Design Physical Properties Measurement
System (PPMS) system equipped with a He3 insert. Measurements below 350
mK were performed using a He3/He4 dilution refrigerator. Data below 1.8
K were taken at a variety of current densities to check for heating
effects. The Hall number at a temperature of 1.8 K was obtained from
linear fits to the transverse voltage in fields from -9 to 9 T, aligned
along the [001] direction. All electrical contacts were made by
sputtering gold contact pads, then fixing platinum wire to the pads
using Epotek H20E conductive silver epoxy, with

c c c c c c c x (at. %) & 1.1(2) & 1.0(4) & 0.7(4) & 1.0(2) & 1.0(4) &
1.0(4) & 1.1(4)
y (at. %) & 0 & 0.5(1) & 0.8(1) & 1.2(1) & 1.4(1) & 2.1(1) & 3.1(1)

Table 1: Composition of Pb1-x-yTlIn${}_{\rm{y}}$Te samples used in this
study, determined by EMPA measurements. Error bars are standard
deviations of 4–6 data points, taken in different locations on two
separate samples.

typical contact resistances between 2 and 5 Ω.

Heat capacity was measured between 0.35 and 5 K on 5-12 mg single
crystals using the relaxation method with a Quantum Design PPMS system
equipped with a He-3 cryostat. Measurements were made in zero field and
in an applied field of 1 T (aligned at an arbitrary angle to the crystal
axes) to suppress the superconducting transition. The electronic
contribution, γ, was calculated from linear fits to C/T vs T², for data
taken below 1 K and in an applied field.

## III Results

Although PbTe is a multiband semiconductor, the Hall number,
n_(H)=1/R_(H)_e_, can be used as a reasonable estimate of the carrier
concentration because the mobilities of the two valence bands occupied
at these carrier concentrations are similar.[8] Values of n_(H) measured
at 1.8 K are shown as a function of y in Fig. 1(A). For In
concentrations, y≤ 0.8

Resistivity data for Pb99-yT101In_(x)Te between 1.8 and 300 K
(normalized to the value at 300 K for clarity) are shown in Fig. 2 for
six representative In concentrations, including y =0. As can be seen,
for In concentrations y≤ 0.8

Figure 2: (Color online) Representative resistivity data for
Pb99-yT101In_(x)Te between 1.8 and 300 K, normalized to the value at 300
K for clarity. Data are labeled by the In content. For In concentrations
above 0.8

Figure 1: (Color online) Effect of indium substitution in
Pb099–yT101In_(x)Te as a function of indium content y on (a) the Hall
number, n_(H); (b) the residual resistance ratio, RRR =ρ(300 K)/ρ(1.8
K); (c) an estimate of the magnitude of the low-temperature resistance
upturn, Δρ=ρ(1.8 K)−ρ(min); (d) the electronic coefficient to the
specific heat, γ (left axis), and the corresponding density of states
per spin at the Fermi level, N(0) (right axis); and (e) the
superconducting critical temperature, T_(c), derived from heat-capacity
measurements. Lines are drawn between data points as a guide to the eye.
The data delineate two distinct regimes. For concentrations y≤ 0.8

Further insight can be gained by more careful inspection of the
low-temperature resistivity, representative examples of which are shown
in Fig. 3. For y≤ 1.2

In addition to the transport measurements described above, heat-capacity
measurements were used to determine both T_(c) (in zero field) and the
density of states at E_(F), N(0) (in a field of 1 T, greater than
H_(c2)). Considering first the measurements made in field,
representative data for four In concentrations are shown in Fig. 4(B).
Linear fits to C/T as a function of T², for T< 1 K yield estimates of
the Sommerfeld coefficient, γ, which are shown as a function of y in
panel D of Fig. 1 (left axis) together with the corresponding values of
N(0) (right axis). For y<y_(c), Pb_(0.99-7)I_(0.01)In₇Te shows an
approximately constant value of γ =0.505(5) mJ/mol K², which is higher
than the value of 0.4 mJ/mol K², expected for a TI and In free sample of
similar carrier concentration, based on previous calculations using the
known PbTe band structure and made assuming a rigid band shift of the
Fermi level.[8] For y>y_(c), where superconductivity is not observed,
the materials show a reduced value of γ< 0.2 mJ/mol K², much closer to
the value expected for PbTe at those carrier concentrations.[8]

Representative heat-capacity data taken in zero field are shown in panel
A of Fig. 4 for five In concentrations, including y=0. Samples with In
concentration y< 0.8

Figure 4: (Color online) (a) Representative data showing the temperature
dependence of the heat capacity of Pb_(0.99-7)I_(0.01)In₇Te with 0<y<
2.1

Figure 3: (Color online) Temperature dependence of the resistivity of
Pb_(0.99-7)I_(0.01)In₇Te at low temperatures for four representative In
concentrations. For y≤ 1.2

## IV Discussion

The results described above, and summarized in Fig. 1, paint the
following general picture. First, In counterdoping in
Pb0.99-yTl0.01nInTe acts as an electron donor, as anticipated from
previous studies of In-doped PbTe described in the Introduction.
However, the Hall number _nH_, reflecting the mobile carrier density,
does not change significantly with increasing In concentration until y
exceeds y_(c)   1

The crossover region between the two classes of behavior is not
perfectly distinct. In particular, samples with y = 1.2

In the case of lithium[16] and sodium[17, 18] counterdopants, a
correlation between elevated density of states, chemical potential
pinning, and superconductivity has also been observed. The authors of
those studies attributed this correlation to formation of a narrow Tl
impurity band, in contrast to the charge-Kondo picture developed in
Refs. [1] and [14]. The additional correlation of Kondo-type scattering
with superconductivity and chemical potential pinning noted in the
present work provides further evidence for the applicability of a
charge-Kondo picture for Tl impurities in PbTe. Direct probes of the Tl
valence in these counterdoped samples would be of great interest. Based
on previous results for Pb1-xTl1Te, it is anticipated that a mixed
valence state will be found in Pb0.99-yTl0.01nInTe for y <= 0.8

The mixed doping investigated here has benefits and detractions. On the
positive side, counterdoping for a fixed (high) Tl concentration means
that the Tl concentration is considerably higher in Pb0.99-yTl0.01nInTe
than in Pb1-xTl1Te at the onset/offset of Fermi-level pinning. In
principle, this means that one could compare in a quantitative fashion
the concentration of Kondo impurities (which we have previously argued
to be less than the actual number of Tl impurities due to disorder
effects[1, 6]) in the two concentration regimes, the correlation of
which with T_(c) would be of considerable interest. In practice,
however, the degree to which it is possible to keep a fixed Tl
concentration while the In concentration is varied is limited,
especially for these low impurity levels. The inherent variation that
this induces, both between crystals from different batches, and to some
extent even within a single crystal, imposes rather severe limitations
on the extent to which a meaningful quantitative analysis is possible.

## V Conclusions

In summary, we have found a clear correlation between chemical potential
pinning, superconductivity, and the presence of Kondo-type resistance
upturn in Pb0.99-yTl0.01nInTe.[1] A similar correlation has previously
been observed for the simpler system Pb1-xTl1Te.[1] The current work
clarifies that the anomalous low-temperature behavior in this material
is a function of the Fermi level, which we have shown can be controlled
independent of the Tl concentration. This provides a distinction between
spurious effects, such as those introduced by magnetic impurities, and
effects resulting from the intrinsic mixed-valent state that has been
found in Tl-doped PbTe.[10] These observations provide additional
support for the hypothesis that superconductivity in Pb1-xTl1Te arises
from a negative-_U_ mechanism associated with mixed valency of the Tl
impurities, which also induces a charge-Kondo effect.[14]

###### Acknowledgements.

The authors acknowledge the contribution of Yana Matsushita to data
taken for In-free material and Eric Samulon for help with preparation of
the manuscript. We also thank Robert E. Jones for technical assistance
in EMPA measurements. This work was supported by the Department of
Energy, Office of Basic Energy Sciences under Contract No.
DE-AC02-76SF00515.

## References

* [1] Y. Matsushita, H. Bluhm, T. H. Geballe, and I. R. Fisher, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **94**, 157002 (2005). * [2] H. Murakami, W. Hattori, Y.
Mizomata, and R. Aoki, Physica C **273**, 41 (1996). * [3] S. A. Nemov
and Yu. I. Ravich, Phys. Usp. **41**, 735 (1998). * [4] J. K. Hulm, M.
Ashkin, D. W. Deis, and C. K. Jones, Prog. Low. Temp. Phys. **6**, 205
(1970). * [5] R. Dornhaus, G. Nimtz, and B. Schlicht, _Narrow-Gap
Semiconductors_, Springer Tracts in Modern Physics Vol. 98
(Springer-Verlag, New York, 1983). * [6] M. Matsuiak, E. Tunnicliffe, J.
Cooper, Y. Matsushita, and I. Fisher, Phys. Rev. B **80**, 220403(R)
(2009). * [7] C. M. Varma, Phys. Rev. Lett. **61**, 2713 (1988). * [8]
Y. Matsushita, P. A. Wianecki, A. Te. Sommer, T. H. Geballe, and I. R.
Fisher, Phys. Rev. B **74**, 134512 (2006). * [9] I. A. Drabkin and B.
Ya. Moizhes, Sov. Phys. Semicond. **15**, 357 (1981). * [10] A. Kaminski
(private communication). * [11] P. W. Anderson, Phys. Rev. Lett. **34**,
953 (1975). * [12] B. Ya. Moizhes and S. G. Suprun, Sov. Tech. Phys.
Lett. **7**, 211 (1981). * [13] B. A. Volkov, L. I. Ryabova, and D. R.
Khokhlov, Phys. Usp. **45**, 819 (2002). * [14] M. Dzero and J.
Schmalian, Phys. Rev. Lett. **94**, 157003 (2005). * [15] A. Taraphder
and P. Coleman, Phys. Rev. Lett. **66**, 2814 (1991). * [16] V. I.
Kaidanov, S. A. Nemov, R. V. Parven’ev, and D. V. Shamshur, Sov. Phys.
Solid State **29**, 1086 (1987). * [17] I. A. Chernik, S. N. Lykov, and
N. I. Grechko, Sov. Phys. Solid State **24**, 1661 (1982). * [18] V. I.
Kaidanov, S. A. Kaz’min, S. A. Nemov, R. V. Parfen’ev, D. V. Shamshur,
and V. F. Shokh, Sov. Phys. Solid State **28**, 591 (1986). * [19] Yu.
I. Ravich and S. A. Nemov, Semiconductors **36**, 1 (2002). * [20] A. A.
Averkin, V. I. Kaidanov, and R. Be. Mel’nik, Sov. Phys. Semicond. **5**,
75 (1971). * [21] I. A. Drabkin, M. A. Kvantov, V. V. Kompaniets, and
Yu. P. Kostikov, Sov. Phys. Semicond. **16**, 815 (1982). * [22] V. I.
Kaidanov and Yu. I. Ravich, Sov. Phys. Usp. **28**, 31 (1985). * [23] I.
R. Fisher, Y. Matsushita, H. Bluhm, and T. H. Geballe, Proc. SPIE
**5932**, 59321Y (2005).
