# Superconductivity in germanium clathrate Ba₈Ga₁₄Ge₃₀

J. D. Bryan, V. I. Srdanov, and G. D. Stucky

Department of Chemistry, University of California, Santa Barbara,
California 93106

D. Schmidt

Department of Physics, University of California, Santa Barbara,
California 93106

9 March 1999

###### Abstract

We report type-II superconductivity in the germanium clathrate compound,
Ba₈Ga₁₄Ge₃₀ with critical temperature, T_(c) = 7.5 ± 0.2 K as determined
by magnetic susceptibility measurements. Barium atoms occupy cage voids
provided by a covalent _sp_3 hybridized network of gallium and
germanium. Magnetic susceptibility and transport measurements were used
to characterize the transition. [S0163-1829(99)06829-0]

Following the pioneering work of Pauling and Marsh on the [Cl₂]6(H₂O)₄₆
clathrate structure,1 a number of isostructural clathrate compounds have
been discovered. Common to all of them is a simple cubic (sc) lattice
whose crystallographic cell is made out of 46 tetrahedral linked atomic
or molecular units. These framework species T form cagelike voids of
high symmetry in which another type of atomic or molecular species are
encapsulated. Unlike fullerenes, clathrate cages are face sharing thus
giving rise to an expanded framework similar to zeolites. The particular
M_(x)T₄₆ clathrate features two types of cages, shown in Fig. 1. The
smaller, 20 atom cage, is a dodecahedron [Fig. 1(a)] whereas the larger,
24 atom cage, is a tetrakaidecahedron [Fig. 1(b)]. There are two smaller
and six larger cages in the unit cell, which do not all need to be
occupied; i.e., 8 ≤ .x. Cros and co-workers8 synthesized covalent
clathrate frameworks out of _sp_3 hybridized group IV elements, which
featured encapsulated alkali-metal atoms. Na₈Si₄₆ and K₇Si₄₆ clathrates
were dubbed metallic7 despite relatively small and
temperature-independent dc conductivity. Structural defects and poor
Ohmic contacts at the grain boundaries were held responsible for high
resistivity and the anomalous temperature dependence in these
compounds.7 Eisenmann and co-workers8 extended the clathrate class in
the 1980’s to encompass alkaline-earth elements with formula (II)8(III,
IV)₄₆. More recently, Ba atoms were successfully encapsulated inside the
clathrate cages composed of silicon, giving rise to mixed (I,
II)_(s)(IV)₄₆ clathrates.9, 10, 11 The clathrate (Na, Ba)_(x)Si₄₆ was
found superconducting below 4 K.12 Like its alkaline-only relatives,
(Na, Ba)_(x)Si₄₆ clathrate shows temperature-independent conductivity
above T_(c). Its metallic nature, however, was confirmed by the recent
NMR studies13, 14 in which temperature-independent, Knight-shifted 139
Ba resonance was found to satisfy the Korringa relation. It has been
proposed that Ba states are hybridized with those forming the conduction
band of the Si₄₆ framework, yielding an increased density of states at
the Fermi level. The latter is held responsible for the occurrence of
superconductivity in the barium-containing compound, in accordance with
the BCS formalism.

In a response to the quest for better thermoelectric materials15, 16 we
recently engaged in a synthesis of various (I, II, )_(x)(III,
IV)_(46, 1136) clathrates. Some of them were found to be superconducting
at low temperatures, thus providing us with a rare opportunity to
address correlations between composition and the transition temperature
in a series of isostructural compounds. The first in the series to be
described is Ba₈Ga₁₄Ge₃₀ clathrate which exhibits type-II
superconductivity with the T_(c) = 7.5 ± 0.2 K.

The clathrate sample was prepared using a procedure adapted from Ref.
10. All manipulations of raw materials were performed in a high-purity
argon-filled drybox. Stoichiometric amounts of the elemental starting
materials (Cerac, 99.99

Figure 1: (a) Smaller pentagonal dodecahedron with barium atom
inclusion. (b) Larger tetrakaidecahedron with barium inclusion. (c)
Extended single unit cell showing connectivity of cages.

4.4 degC/min to 1080 degC, held for 1 h then cooled at 0.8 degC/min to
875 degC. The reaction was further cooled at 2.3 degC/min to room
temperature. Inductively coupled plasma emission spectroscopy was used
to determine composition of 23.49

As one would expect, the heteroatom Ge-Ga framework shows a slightly
larger average bond length than Ge-Ge bonds of the diamond structure,
2.51(2) and 2.45, respectively. While both structures are _sp_3
hybridized the group IV clathrate class of compounds show a large
distribution of bond lengths and angles giving the structure a degree of
flexibility toward substitutions.[18] Unfortunately, the
powder-diffraction data did not allow refinement of the framework Ga/Ge
ratio which was therefore held fixed, consistent with the results of
elemental analysis. The Ba occupancy, however, was refined to the
factors shown in Table 1 with other selected crystallographic
parameters.

Magnetic measurements on finely ground bulk sample were made in the
1.8−300 K region by using a superconducting quantum interference device
magnetometer Quantum Design, Model 1802. Figure 3 shows the
susceptibility versus temperature for zero-field cooling (ZFC) and
field-cooling (FC) runs for BaGa16Ge20 samples under a field of 10 G.
The signal has been corrected for the diamagnetic core response from the
constituent atoms.[19] The normalized susceptibility 4_pX_ is used where
_kh_ has units of (emu/(G cm3). Here, the convention 1 G cm3 = 1 emu
resulting in a unitless number,[20] with a limiting value of - 1 for a
perfect diamagnet, was employed. The _Tc_ = 7.5 K was approximated by
the onset of a diamagnetic response. A critical field, _H_c1, of 100 G
was determined by measuring the magnetic moment in varying applied
fields (not shown). The difference of the FC run from the ZFC run is
often associated with the volume superconducting fraction or the
percentage of Meissner phase.[20] Approximately 40

As shown in Fig. 3, a second cusp or transition in the susceptibility
occurs in the temperature run near 6 K. Although one cannot exclude a
possibility for the coexistence of two superconducting clathrate
stoichiometries, we offer an

  ------------------------------- -------------- ----------- ------------------------------
                                                              Wykoff site and multiplicity
               Atom                  _x,y,z_      Fraction   
                Ba                    0,0,0,      0.9580(2)                2a
                Ba                 0.25, 0.5, 0   0.9769(1)                6d
              Ga, Ge               0.25, 0, 0.5    1.0000                  6c
              Ga, Ge                 _x,x,x_       1.0000                 16i
           x = 0.1855(1)                                     
               Ga,Ge                 _0,y,z_                 
   y = 0.3080(1) ; z = 0.1185(1)                             
  ------------------------------- -------------- ----------- ------------------------------

Table 1: Selected crystallographic parameters.

Figure 2: Powder-diffraction pattern with Rietveld analysis and
corresponding difference plot.

alternative explanation. The secondary transition may be associated with
the decoupling of superconducting grains, as is similarly observed in
the high-T_(c) cuprates.[20, 22] The weakly superconducting grain
boundaries sustain a lower critical current density than the
corresponding bulk. Larger applied fields induced larger screening
currents that eventually surpass the upper limit of the critical current
density for these weakly superconducting regions, driving the grain
decoupling to lower temperatures. Thompson and co-workers[22] showed
that the critical temperature for decoupling of the superconducting
grains is inversely proportional to the magnetic field in a ZFC
experiment. As shown in the inset of Fig. 3, this is consistent with our
experiment. We also note T_(c) in these experiments remains unchanged as
long as the applied field is far below the critical field. We,
therefore, conclude that the secondary transition is a direct result of
decoupling of superconducting grains.

In the absence of single crystals, resistivity measurements were
performed on samples pelletized under 1400 MPa. The pellet density was
measured to be 87

We note that the band-structure calculation of the hypothetical Si₄₆
clathrate structure[2] predict a semiconductor with a fundamental gap of
1.26 eV. It is further believed that the valence electrons of
encapsulated alkali metal are donated to the conduction band of such a
clathrate, yielding metallic behavior in Na₈Si₄₆ and K₈Si₄₆.[7] It is
also proposed[2] that in the case of (Na, Ba)_(x)Si₄₆, s and d states of
the alkaline-earth atom are mixed with those of silicon, thus giving
rise to an enhanced density of states at the Fermi level, N(E_(f)). The
latter was used to explain the occurrence of superconductivity in (Na,
Ba)_(x)Si₄₆, which is nonexistent in the pure alkali-metal clathrates.
In the case of Ba₈Ga₁₆Ge₃₀, however; the partial Ga/Ge substitution
creates an electron-deficient framework. In such a clathrate the
encapsulated metal atoms must donate their electrons into the valence,
rather than the conduction band of the hypothetical III₁₆IV₃₀ framework.
Since Ba₈Ga₆Ge₃₀ clathrates show nearly metallic conductivity it must be
that not all of the barium electrons are donated, thus leaving the
clathrate "valence" band only partially filled. It would now be
interesting to see whether the density-of-states calculations, coupled
with premises of BCS theory, would help us rationalize superconductivity
of such clathrates.

In summary, the low-temperature transport and magnetic susceptibility of
the germanium-based clathrate Ba₈Ga₆Ge₃₀ were investigated. We observe
superconductivity in this material with a T_(c) of 7.5± 0.2 K. Grain
boundaries and nonsto

Figure 4: Resistivity versus temperature from 20 to 2 K.

Figure 3: 4πχ vs temperature from 20 to 2 K for Ba₈Ga₁₆Ge₃₀. T_(c)
estimated to be 7.5 K. (•) denotes zero-field-cooling experiment, (□)
denotes the field-cooled experiment (inset) 4πχ vs temperature plot for
varying fields in a ZFC experiment. A slight shift in T_(c) observed for
100 G experiment is due to the nonlinearity of the moment response
experienced near H_(c1).

ichiometric regions were shown to influence these measurements via a
depression in transport T_(c) and the appearance of a second transition
in the magnetic susceptibility. This discovery further emphasizes the
rich physical and electronic structure of the group IV clathrates.
Varying the framework composition and the choice of alkaline-earth
element will likely lead to a broader understanding of their electronic
properties and may yield insights into their thermoelectric behavior and
potential for device application.

We would like to thank Henning Trill and Susan Latturner for their help
in synthesis and initial discoveries as well as vital discussions
essential to this work. We would also like to thank Paul Gilbert for
generously donating his translation services. This work was supported in
part by ONR Grant Nos. N00014-96-1-0053 and N00014-99-1-0266, NSF Grant
No. DMR-9520970, ARO/ASSERT Grant No. DAAH0496-1-0235, and AFOSR Grant
No. F49620-93-10440.

## References

* [1] L. Pauling and R. E. Marsh, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA **38**, 112
(1952). * [2] S. Saito and A. Oshiyama, Phys. Rev. B **51**, 2628
(1995). * [3] C. Cros, M. Pouchard, and P. Hagenmuller, C. R. Hebd.
Seances Acad. Sci. **260**, 4764 (1965). * [4] C. Cros _et al._, Bull.
Soc. Chim. Fr. **7**, 2737 (1968). * [5] C. Cros, M. Pouchard, and P.
Hagenmuller, J. Solid State Chem. **2**, 570 (1970). * [6] C. Cros, M.
Pouchard, and P. Hagenmuller, Bull. Soc. Chim. Fr. **2**, 379 (1971). *
[7] N. F. Mott, J. Solid State Chem. **6**, 348 (1973). * [8] B.
Eisenmann, H. Schafer, and R. Zagler, J. Less-Common Met. **118**, 43
(1986). * [9] S. Yamanaka _et al._, Eur. J. Solid State Inorg. Chem.
**32**, 799 (1995). * [10] S. Yamanaka, H. Kawaji, and M. Ishikawa,
_Advances in Superconductivity VIII. Proceedings of the 8th
International Symposium on Superconductivity_ (ISS ’95), Hamamatsu,
Japan, 1995 (Springer-Verlag, Tokyo, 1996), Vol. 1, pp. 419-424. * [11]
S. Yamanaka, H. Kawaji, and M. Ishikawa, Mater. Sci. Forum **232**, 103
(1996). * [12] H. Kawaji _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **74**, 1427
(1995). * [13] J. Gryko, P. F. McMillan, and O. F. Sankey, Phys. Rev. B
**54**, 3037 (1996). * [14] F. Shimizu _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **54**, 13
242 (1996). * [15] G. Mahan, B. Sales, and J. Sharp, Phys. Today **50**
(3), 42 (1997). * [16] W. Lescure, J. Prazik, and F. Saalfeld, in _Naval
Research Reviews_, edited by N. Gerbozy (U.S. Government Printing
Office, Arlington, 1996), Vol. XLVIII, p. 57. * [17] A. C. Larsen and R.
B. Von Dreele, gsas, Los Alamos National Laboratory, Los Alamos, NM,
1985 (ftp://ftp.lanl.gov/public/gsas). * [18] M. O’Keeffe, G. B. Adams,
and O. F. Sankey, Philos. Mag. Lett. **78**, 21 (1998). * [19] G. C.
Carter, L. H. Bennet, and D. J. Kahan, _Metallic Shifts in NMR_
(Pergamon, New York, 1977). * [20] J. R. Thompson _et al._, _Studies of
’Non-ideal Superconductors Using dc Magnetic Methods_ (Plenum, New York,
1991). * [21] A. M. Campbell, _dc Magnetisation and Flux Profile
Techniques_ (Plenum, New York, 1991). * [22] J. R. Thompson _et al._,
Phys. Rev. B **39**, 6652 (1989). * [23] K. Jagannadham and J. Narayan,
Mater. Sci. Eng. B **B26**, 75 (1994). * [24] S. E. Babcock and D. C.
Larbalestier, Appl. Phys. Lett. **55**, 393 (1989). * [25] S. E. Babcock
_et al._, Physica C **152**, 25 (1988).
