# Anisotropy in BaFe₂Se₃ single crystals with double chains of FeSe
tetrahedra

Hechang Lei
(${}^{\text{\text{\textregistered}}}$${}^{\text double chains are separated by Ba\({}^{2+}$
ions and are slightly tilted off the _bc_ plane. The tilting directions
are opposite between the two neighboring layers as shown in Fig. 1(d).
The shape of the BaFe₂Se₃ crystal is long plate like. The XRD pattern of
a BaFe₂Se₃ crystal [Fig. 1(c)] reveals that the crystal surface is
normal to the a axis with the plate-shaped surface parallel to the _bc_
plane. Moreover, the b axis is along the long direction of crystal in
the _bc_ plane. The EDX spectrum of a single crystal confirms the
presence of Ba, Fe, and Se. The average atomic ratios determined from
EDX are Ba : Fe : Se = 1.00(4) : 1.9(1) : 3.1(1), close to the expected
stoichiometric BaFe₂Se₃ ratio. Hence there are no vacancies on either Ba
or Fe sites, which is different from K_(x)Fe_(2 − x)Se₂.[5, 13]

The features of Fe _K_-edge XANES spectrum of BaFe_(x)Se₃ [Fig. 2(a)]
are similar to FeSe_(x).[14] The prepeak A (∼7112.5 eV) is due to either
dipole or quadrupole 1s → 3d transitions. The shoulder B with maximum
absorption jump at ∼7118.4 eV can be ascribed to the 1s → 4p transition.
When compared to the spectrum of FeO, the shoulder B is located at the
lower energy side, suggesting that the valence of Fe is slightly smaller
than 2+. The valence of Fe is evaluated by linear interpolation of the
energy of BaFe₂Se₃ with those of standards [Fe foil (metallic Fe), FeO
(Fe²⁺), and Fe₂O₃ (Fe³⁺)]. From the peak of first-derivative spectra
corresponding to the maximum absorption jump, we obtain ∼1.87+ for Fe
valence, which is close to the value for FeSe_(x).[14] On the other
hand, there are two features for Se _K_-edge XANES spectrum of BaFe₂Se₃
[Fig. 2(b)]. The feature C is mainly due to the 1s → 4p dipole
transition and the broad hump D should be a multiple scattering of the
photoelectron with the near neighbors.[15] By extrapolating the maximum
absorption jumps of Se (∼12659.2 eV) and CeO₂ (∼12662 eV),[14] we
estimate  ∼ −1.98 for the Se valence, consistent with the formal value
of Se ion (2−). For the Fe site, the nearest neighbors are four Se atoms
[1× Se(I), 2× Se(II), and 1× Se(III)] with four different distances
close to ∼2.418 A and the next nearest neighbors are three Fe atoms with
almost the same distance (∼2.723 A).[8] From the joint analysis of Fe
and Se edges, EXAFS data using a single bond distance for Fe-Se and
Fe-Fe, and by fitting the k range 3.2-18.4 A⁻¹ for Fe K edge and 2-14
A⁻¹ for Se K edge [main panels and insets of Figs. 2(c) and 2(d)], the
fitted average Fe-Se and Fe-Fe bond lengths are d_(Fe-Se) = 2.428(5) A
and d_(Fe-Fe) = 2.71(5) A. This is consistent with the reported
values.[8]

Temperature dependence of the resistivity ρ(T) of BaFe₂Se₃ crystal for
μ₀H = 0 and 9 T indicates that this material is a semiconductor in the
measured temperature region (Fig. 3). The room-temperature value
ρ(300 K) is about 17 Ω cm, which is much larger than in BaFe₂S₃ (∼0.35
Ω cm).[16] Fits of the ρ(T) at high temperature using the thermal
activation model ρ = ρ₀exp (E_(a)/k_(B)T), where ρ₀ is a prefactor,
E_(a) is thermal activated energy, and k_(B) is Boltzmann’s constant,
gives E_(a) = 0.178(1) eV in the temperature range above 170 K (inset in
Fig. 3), which is also much larger than in BaFe₂S₃.[16, 17] The larger
room-temperature resistivity and E_(a) can be ascribed to the increase
of structural distortion which might localize the carriers and increase
the band gap when compared to BaFe₂S₃.[8] For BaFe₂S₃, bond lengths are
almost identical for all four Fe-S bonds, in contrast to very different
bond lengths for BaFe₂Se₃. Moreover, the Fe-Fe bond distances in a
single chain are identical for BaFe₂S₃, whereas they are different for
BaFe₂Se₃, where the longer and shorter bonds alternately connect along
the b axis. All structural features imply that in the former compound
the coordination polyhedron is more symmetric than in the latter.

Figure 2: (Color online) (a) Fe _k_-edge XANES spectra of BaFe₂Se₃, Fe,
FeO, and Fe₂O₃ measured at 300 K. The inset shows the valence states of
Fe calculated from the first derivative of the XANES spectra. FT
magnitudes of the EXAFS oscillations (symbols) for Fe k edge (c) and Se
k edge (d). The model fits are shown as solid lines. The FTs are not
corrected for the phase shifts and represent raw experimental data.
Insets of (c) and (d) filtered EXAFS (symbols) with _k_-space model fits
(solid line).

Figure 1: (Color online) (a) Powder XRD patterns of BaFe₂Se₃. (b)
Crystal structure of BaFe₂Se₃. The big orange, small red, and medium
blue balls represent Ba, Fe, and Se ions. (c) Single crystal XRD of
BaFe₂Se₃. (d) The arrangement of double chains of edge-sharing Fe-Se
tetrahedra along the b axis.

It should be noted that the shorter Fe-Fe bond in BaFe₂S₃ may also have
some contribution to higher conductivity. On the other hand, when
compared to BaFe₂S₃, which exhibits negative magnetoresistance (MR)
below 25 K,[16] there is no obvious MR in BaFe₂Se₃ as shown in Fig. 3.

Temperature dependence of dc magnetic susceptibility χ(T) of BaFe₂Se₃
single crystal [Figs. 4(a), 4(b), and 4(c)] cannot be fitted using
Curie-Weiss law up to 390 K. It decreases with decreasing temperature
for all field directions (H∥a, b, and c). It suggests that there is AFM
interaction up to 390 K, in agreement with neutron results that found
short-range correlations (SRC).[9, 10] Another characteristic in χ(T)
curves is a transition appearing at about 255 K for all three field
directions, which is ascribed to a crossover from short-range AFM
correlation to long-range AFM order.[9, 10] It should be noted that the
absolute χ_(a)(T) is much smaller than χ_(b)(T) and χ_(c)(T).
Nevertheless, similar to H ∥b, a Curie-like upturn in susceptibility is
seen below 255 K for H∥c, while a faster drop is seen below 255 K for
H∥a. It suggests that the easy axis of magnetization direction is a
axis. According to mean-field theory for the collinear antiferromagnet,
magnetic susceptibility along the easy-axis direction goes to zero for
T → 0, whereas perpendicular to the easy-axis magnetization direction is
nearly constant below T_(N). This is consistent with the neutron
results.[9, 10] The small positive value of χ_(a)(T → 0) is probably due
to the presence of a van Vleck paramagnetism. A large diversity of
susceptibilities between H∥a, H ∥b, and H∥c persisting up to 390 K
suggests that there may be an intriguing anisotropy of SRC in the
system. On the other hand, when the magnetic field was applied along the
c axis, there is no obvious hysteresis between zero-field-cooled (ZFC)
and field-cooled (FC) measurements. The lack of hysteresis suggests that
the ferromagnetic component of magnetic interactions between the Fe
chains along the c axis is very weak. This can be ascribed to the large
Fe-Fe (or ferromagnetic Fe4 plaquette) interchain distance
($d_{\rm Fe-Fe}^{\rm interchain}\sim 6.441$ A).[8] In contrast, for
H ∥b, the ZFC

Figure 4: (Color online) (a) Temperature dependence of dc magnetic
susceptibility χ(T) below 300 K under ZFC and FC modes with the applied
field μ₀H = 0.1 T along (a) a, (b) b, and (c) c axis. Isothermal
magnetization hysteresis loops M(H) for (d) H ∥a, (e) H∥b, and (f) H∥c
at various temperatures.

Figure 5: (Color online) (a) χ(T) of sample B below 15 K under ZFC and
FC modes with μ₀H = 0.1 mT. χ(T) below 100 K under ZFC mode with μ₀H =
0.1 T for (b) sample B and (c) sample C.

Figure 3: (Color online) Temperature dependence of the resistivity ρ(T)
of the BaFe₂Se₃ crystal with μ₀H = 0 (closed red circle) and 9 T (open
blue square, H ∥c). Inset: Fitting result of ρ(T) at zero field using
the thermal activation model, where the red line is the fitting curve.

and FC measurements exhibit significant hysteresis due to the fact of
short Fe-Fe (or ferromagnetic Fe4 plaquette) intrachain distance
(d_(Fe-Fe)^(intrachain) ∼ 2.720 and 2.727 A),[8] resulting in strong
magnetic interaction. The hysteresis between the ZFC and FC curves
extends up to 390 K, suggesting that this intrachain interaction exists
at temperatures above the long-range order.

Isothermal M(H) for H∥a, H∥b, and H∥c [Figs. 4(d), 4(e), and 4(f)] at
various temperatures show that there is no hysteresis for all three
field directions, which confirms the AFM order in the system and
excludes the ferromagnetic impurities. For H∥a, the slopes of M(H)
increase with increasing temperature, but for the other two directions,
M(H) curves are almost unchanged, consistent with the M(T) results.
Moreover, the slopes of M(H) are H∥b > H∥c > H∥a for all of measured
temperatures, corresponding to the increase of paramagnetic moment when
magnetic field is rotated from a toward c and then toward the b axis, as
shown Figs. 4(a), 4(b), and 4(c).

On the other hand, there is a small drop at about 10 K. This is also
observed in a previous paper and might correspond to the superconducting
transition.[9] In order to clarify whether this transition is extrinsic
or intrinsic, we measured the other two samples from the same batch. As
shown in Figs. 5(a) and 5(b), sample B exhibits a similar drop at about
10 K for μ₀H = 0.1 mT and 0.1 T, but the superconducting volume fraction
is only about 0.15

The heat capacity C_(p) of the BaFe₂Se₃ crystal approaches the classic
value of 3NR at 300 K, where N is the atomic number in the chemical
formula (N = 6) and R is the gas constant (R = 8.314 J mol⁻¹ K⁻¹),
consistent with the Dulong-Petit law (Fig. 6). At the low temperature,
C_(p)(T) curve can be fitted solely by a cubic term βT³ times of Fig.
6). From the fitted value of β = 1.357(6) mJ mol⁻¹ K⁻⁴, the Debye
temperature is estimated to be Θ_(D) = 205(1) K using the formula
Θ_(D) = (12π⁴NR/5β)^(1/3). This is slightly smaller than Θ_(D) of
K_(x)Fe_(2 − y)Se₂, which might be due to the larger atomic mass of Ba
than K.[19] On the other hand, there is no λ-type anomaly for BaFe₂Se₃
at the temperature of magnetic transitions (T_(N) = 255 K). This can be
ascribed to the overwhelming release of magnetic entropy due to
existence of SRC above the long-range order at T_(N).[10] This is also
consistent with the absence of Curie-Weiss law in M(T) [Figs. 4(a),
4(b), and 4(c)].

## IV Conclusion

In summary, we studied the physical properties of
Ba_(1.004)Fe_(1.9(1))Se_(3.1(t)) single crystals with 1D double chains
of edge-shared Fe-Se tetrahedra parallel to the b axis. Composition
analysis indicates that all crystallographic sites are fully occupied.
XANES result shows that the valence of Fe is about 1.87+. Taken together
with transport, magnetic, and thermodynamic properties, this indicates
that the BaFe₂Se₃ is a semiconductor with a short-range AFM correlation
at room temperature and a long-range AFM order below 255 K. The
anisotropy of magnetization is consistent with magnetic structure
determined from neutron results previously. This is rather similar to
parent materials of Fe-based superconductors; however, the absence of
appreciable conductivity coincides with the absence of connected
infinite 2D Fe-Se planar tetrahedra.

## Acknowledgments

We are grateful to Kefeng Wang for helpful discussions. We thank John
Warren for help with scanning electron microscopy measurements and Qi
Wang for help with XAFS measurements. Work at Brookhaven is supported by
the US DOE under Contract No. DE-AC02-98CH10886 and in part by the
Center for Emergent Superconductivity, an Energy Frontier Research
Center funded by the US DOE, Office for Basic Energy Science. A.I.F.
acknowledges support by US Department of Energy Grant No.
DE-FG02-03ER15476. Beamline X18A at the NSLS is supported in part by the
US Department of Energy Grant No. DE-FG02-05ER15688.

## References

* [1] Y. Kamihara, T. Watanabe, M. Hirano, and H. Hosono, J. Am. Chem.
Soc. **130**, 3296 (2008). * [2] M. Rotter, M. Tegel, and D. Johrendt,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **101**, 107006 (2008). * [3] X. C. Wang, Q. Q. Liu, Y.
X. Lv, W. B. Gao, L. X. Yang, R. C. Yu, F. Y. Li, and C. Q. Jin, Solid
State Commun. **148**, 538 (2008). * [4] F. C. Hsu, J. Y. Luo, K. W.
Yeh, T. K. Chen, T. W. Huang, P. M. Wu, Y. C. Lee, Y. L. Huang, Y. Y.
Chu, D. C. Yan,

Figure 6: (Color online) Temperature dependence of heat capacity for
BaFe₂Se₃ crystal. The green solid line represents the classical value
according to Dulong-Petit law at high temperature. Inset: the
low-temperature specific-heat data in the plot of C_(p)/T vs T². The red
solid line is the fitting curve using formula C_(p)/T = βT².

and M. K. Wu, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA **105**, 14262 (2008). * [5] J.
Guo, S. Jin, G. Wang, S. Wang, K. Zhu, T. Zhou, M. He, and X. Chen,
Phys. Rev. B **82**, 180520(R) (2010). * [6] I. Todorov, D. Y. Chung, C.
D. Malliakas, Q. Li, T. Bakas, A. Douvalis, G. Trimarchi, K. Gray, J. F.
Mitchell, A. J. Freeman, and M. G. Kanatzidis, J. Am. Chem. Soc.
**131**, 5405 (2009). * [7] L. L. Zhao, T. H. Yi, J. C. Fettinger, S. M.
Kauzlarich, and E. Morosan, Phys. Rev. B **80**, 020404(R) (2009). * [8]
H. Y. Hong and H. Steinfink, J. Solid State Chem. **5**, 93 (1972). *
[9] A. Krzton-Maziopa, E. Pomjakushina, V. Pomjakushin, D. Sheptyakov,
D. Chernyshov, V. Svitlyk, and K. Conder, J. Phys. Condens. Matter
**23**, 402201 (2011). * [10] J. M. Caron, J. R. Neilson, D. C. Miller,
A. Llobet, and T. M. McQueen, Phys. Rev. B **84**, 180409(R) (2011). *
[11] R. Prins and D. Koningsberger, _X-ray Absorption: Principles,
Applications, Techniques of EXAFS, SEXAFS, XANES_ (Wiley, New York,
1988). * [12] B. Hunter, "Rietica–A visual Rietveld program."
International Union of Crystallography Commission on Powder Diffraction
Newsletter No. 20 (Summer 1998) [http://www.rietica.org]. * [13] H. C.
Lei and C. Petrovic, Phys. Rev. B **83**, 184504 (2011). * [14] C. L.
Chen, S. M. Rao, C. L. Dong, J. L. Chen, T. W. Huang, B. H. Mok, M. C.
Ling, W. C. Wang, C. L. Chang, T. S. Chan, J. F. Lee, J.-H. Guo, and M.
K. Wu, Europhys. Lett. **93**, 47003 (2011). * [15] B. Joseph, A.
Iadecola, L. Simonelli, Y. Mizuguchi, Y. Takano, T. Mizokawa, and N. L.
Saini, J. Phys. Condens. Matter **22**, 485702 (2010). * [16] Z. S.
Gonen, P. Fournier, V. Smolyaninova, R. Greene, F. M. Araujo-Moreira,
and B. Eichhorn, Chem. Mater. **12**, 3331 (2000). * [17] W. M. Reiff,
I. E. Grey, A. Fan, Z. Eilezer, and H. Steinfink, J. Solid State Chem.
**13**, 32 (1975). * [18] S. Medvedev, T. M. McQueen, I. A. Troyan, T.
Palasyuk, M. I. Eremets, R. J. Cava, S. Naghavi, F. Casper, V.
Ksenofontov, G. Wortmann, and C. Felser, Nat. Mater. **8**, 630
(2009). * [19] B. Zeng, B. Shen, G. F. Chen, J. B. He, D. M. Wang, C. H.
Li, and H. H. Wen, Phys. Rev. B **83**, 144511 (2011).
