Critical fields and the spontaneous vortex state in the weakly
ferromagnetic superconductor RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈

C. Y. Yang, B. C. Chang, and H. C. Ku*

Department of PhysicsDepartment of Physics National Tsing Hua University
Hsinchu Minchu Minchu Taiwan 300 Republic of China

Y. Y. Hsu

Institute of Physics Academia Sinica National Tsing Hua University
Hsinchu Minchu Taiwan 300 Republic of China

November 7, 2021November 7, 2021November 7, 2021November 7, 2021November
7, 2021November 7, 2021November 7, 2021November 7, 2021November 7,
2021November 7, 2021November 7, 2021

###### Abstract

A spontaneous vortex state (SVS) between 30 and 56 K was observed for
the weak-ferromagnetic superconductor RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈ with the
ferromagnetic Curie temperature T_(C)=131 K and the superconducting
transition temperature T_(c)=56 K. The low-field (±20 G)
super-conducting hysteresis loop indicates a narrow Meissner state
region within the average lower critical field
B_(c1)(T)=B_(c1)(0)[1 − (T/T₀)²], with average B_(c1)^(av)(0) =12 G and
T₀=30 K. Full Meissner shielding signal in very low applied field
indicates an ab plane B_(c1)^(av)(0)∼ 4 G with an estimated anisotropic
parameter γ∼ 7 for this layered system. The existence of a spontaneous
vortex state between 30 and 56 K is the result of weak-ferromagnetic
order with a net spontaneous magnetic moment of ∼0.1μ_(B)/Ru, which
generates a weak magnetic dipole field around 10 G in the CuO₂ bilayers.
The upper critical field B_(c2) varies linearly as (1−T/T_(c)) up to 7-T
field. The vortex melting line B_(m) varies as (1−T/T_(m))^(3.5) with
melting transition temperature T_(m)=39 K and a very broad vortex liquid
region due to the coexistence and the interplay between
superconductivity and weak-ferromagnetic order.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.72.174508 PACS number(s): 74.72.-h, 74.25.Ha

## I Introduction

Recently, high-T_(c) superconductivity with anomalous magnetic
properties was reported in the weak-ferromagnetic Ru-1212 system
RuSr₂RCu₂O₈ (R=Sm, Eu, Gd, Y) with the tetragonal TlBa₃CaCu₂O₇-type
structure.[1, 2, 3, 43] For the Ca-substituted system, a possible
superconductivity was also reported in the weak-ferromagnetic compounds
RuCa₂RCu₂O₈(R=Pr-Gd).[44, 45, 46] The metallic weak-ferromagnetic (WFM)
order is originated from the long-range order of Ru moments in the RuO₆
octahedra due to strong Ru-4d_(x, y, z, z, x)-O-2p_(x, y, z)
hybridization in this strongly correlated electron system. The Curie
temperature T_(C)∼ 130 K observed from magnetization measurement in the
prototype compound RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈ is probably a canted G-type
antiferromagnetic order with Ru⁵⁺ moment μ canted along the tetragonal
basal plane resulting a small net spontaneous magnetic moment
μ_(x)≪μ(Ru⁵⁺) too small to be detected in neutron diffraction.[4, 5, 9,
10, 21] The occurrence of high-T_(c) superconductivity with maximum
resistivity onset T_(c)(onset)∼ 60 K in RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈ is related with the
quasi-two-dimensional CuO₂ bilayers separated by a rare-earth layer in
the Ru-1212 structure.[1, 2, 4, 29] Broad resistivity transition width
ΔT_(c)=T_(c)(onset)−T_(c)(zero)∼ 15-20 K observed is most likely
originated from the coexistence and the interplay between
superconductivity and weak-ferromagnetic order.[1, 2, 3, 43] The
diamagnetic T_(c) is observed anomalously at lower temperature near
T_(c)(zero) instead of at T_(c)(onset), and a reasonably large Meissner
signal was reported using stationary sample magnetometer with
diamagnetic T_(c)∼ 30 K in ≤1 G applied field at zero-field-cooled (ZFC)
mode.[38] Lower T_(c)(onset)∼ 40 and 12 K were observed for RuSr₂EuCu₂O₈
and RuSr₂SmCu₂O₈, respectively.[12, 17] No superconductivity can be
detected in RuSr₂RCu₂O₈ (R=Pr, Nd).[3, 16] Superconducting RuSr₂YCu₂O₈
phase is stable only under the high pressure.[20, 25] The physics is
still unclear in this system, and it will be interesting to investigate
the effect of the weak-ferromagnetic order on the superconducting
critical fields B_(c2) and B_(c1), as well as on the possible existence
of a spontaneous vortex state (SVS) at a higher temperature above the
Meissner state.

## II Experimental

The stoichiometric RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈ samples were synthesized by the standard
solid-state reaction method. High-purity RuO₂ (99.99

The powder x-ray diffraction data were collected with a Rigaku Rotaflex
18-kW rotating anode diffractometer using graphite monochromatized
Cu-K_(a) radiation with a scanning step of 0.02^(∘) (10 s counting time
per step) in the 2 θ ranges of 5^(∘)-100^(∘). The electrical resistivity
and magnetoresistivity measurements were performed using the standard
four-probe method with a Linear Research LR-700 ac (16Hz) resistance
bridge from 2 to 300 K with applied magnetic field up to 7 T. The
magnetization, magnetic susceptibility, and magnetic hysteresis
measurements from 2 to 300 K with applied fields from 1 G to 7 T were
carried out with a Quantum Design 1-T μ-metal shielded MPMS2 or a 7-T
MPMS superconducting quantum interference device (SQUID) magnetometer.

## III Results and discussion

The powder x-ray diffraction pattern for the oxygen-annealed
RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈ polycrystalline sample indicates close to a single phase
with the tetragonal lattice parameters of a=0.5428(5)nm and
c=1.1589(9)nm. The space group P4/mbm is used for Rietveld refinement
analysis, where neutron-diffraction data indicate that a RuO₆ octahedra
14^(∘) rotation around the c axis is needed to accommodate physically
reasonable Ru-O bond lengths.[10] The refinement with the fixed 14^(∘)
rotation angle gives a good residual error R of 3.64

The temperature dependence of the electrical resistivity ρ(T) and the
volume magnetic susceptibility χ_(V)(T) at 1-G field-cooled (FC) and
zero-field-cooled (ZFC) modes for RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈ are shown collectively in
Fig. 1. The high-temperature resistivity decreases monotonically from
room temperature value of 9.2 mΩ cm (not shown) to 6.4 mΩ cm at 200 K,
and extrapolated to 2.8 mΩ cm at 0 K with a good resistivity ratio ρ(300
K)/ρ(0 K) of 3.3 for the polycrystalline sample. The high-temperature
resistivity shows a non-Fermi-liquid-like linear T dependence down to a
Curie temperature T_(C) of 131 K, then changes to a T² behavior below
T_(C) due to magnetic order.

The superconducting onset temperature of 56 K is determined from the
deviation from T² behavior, with a zero resistivity T_(c)(zero) at 39 K.
The broad transition width ΔT_(c)=17 K observed is the common feature
for all reported Ru-1212 resistivity data, which indicates that the
superconducting Josephson coupling along the tetragonal c axis between
Cu-O bilayers may be partially blocked by the dipole field B_(dipole) of
ordered Ru moments in the Ru-O layer.[1, 2, 4, 52, 40] The diamagnetic
T_(c) at 39 K was observed in the 1-G ZFC susceptibility measurement.
The full Meissner shielding signal 4πχ_(V)=4πM/B_(a)∼−1.5 (Gaussian
units) was recorded at 5 K. This value is identical to the Meissner
shielding signal expected for a superconducting sphere with a
demagnetization factor N of −4π/3 and in an applied field B_(a) well
below lower critical field B_(c1). The large diamagnetic signal in 1-G
ZFC mode is the best data observed so far from various reported
susceptibility measurement techniques.[4, 5, 28, 29, 38] Since our
measurements were performed with the standard moving-sample SQUID
magnetometer, it is clear that sample quality is more crucial than
measuring techniques. Both ZFC and FC data reveal a Curie temperature
T_(C) of 131 K. However, in 1-G FC mode, no diamagnetic field-expulsion
signal can be detected below 39 K due to strong flux pinning where
superconductivity coexists with weak-ferromagnetic order.

The zero-field-cooled (ZFC) volume susceptibility χ_(V)(T) at 1, 10, and
100 G applied fields are shown collectively in Fig. 2. All data show the
same magnetic order T_(C)(Ru) of 131 K. Although the diamagnetic T_(c)
of 39 K was still observed at 10-G ZFC measurement, the diamagnetic
signal at 5 K is reduced to 60

Based on this information, the low-field (±20 G) isothermal
superconducting hysteresis loops M-B_(a) are measured and collectively
shown in Figs. 3(a) (5, 10, 15, and 20 K) and 3(b) (25, 30, and 35 K).
The initial magnetization curve deviates from straight line in 4 G at 5
K, 3.5 G at 10 K, 3 G at 15 K, 2 G at 20 K, and 1 G at 25 K. This is the
narrow region that full Meissner signals are detected and is roughly
corresponding to the anisotropic lower critical field in the ab plane
B_(c1)^(ab)(T) with B_(c1)^(ab)(0)∼ 4 G. The average lower critical
field B_(c1)^(ab) for the polycrystalline sample is determined from

Figure 2: ZFC volume susceptibility χ_(V)(T) for RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈ at 1, 10,
and 100 G. Note that the full Meissner shielding signal was observed
only at low applied field and low temperature.

Figure 1: Electrical resistivity ρ(T) and volume magnetic susceptibility
χ_(V)(T) at 1-G field-cooled (FC) and zero-field-cooled (ZFC) modes for
oxygen-annealed RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈.

the peaks of initial diamagnetic magnetization curves. The effect on the
exact peak value due to the surface barrier pinning is neglected.
_B__c_1 decreases steadily from 12 G at 5 K, 11 G at 10 K, 9 G at 15 K,
6 G at 20 K, 3 G at 25 K, and below 1 G at 30 K. A simple empirical
parabolic fitting gives _B__c_1(_T_) = _B__c_1(0)[1 - (_T_/_T_0)2], with
average _B__c_1(0) = 12 G and T0 = 30 K (see Fig. 4). Using the
anisotropic Ginzburg-Landau formula B_(c) = [2_B__avc_ + _B__c_1)/3,
_c_-axis _B__c_1   28 G and the anisotropy parameter _g_  7 is
estimated. This value is close to a reported anisotropic g value for
YBa2Cu3O7 where the 123-type structure can be written as Cu-1212
CuBa2YCu2O7. An average penetration depth _l_ave(0) =
[Ph0/2p2_p_2p2_p_2p2_p_2p2_p_2p2_p_2p2_p_2p2_p_2p2_p_2p2_p_2p2_p_2_2p2_p_2_2p2_2p2_2p2_2p2_2p2_2p2_2_2p2_2_2_p_
parameter k of 1040 and the thermodynamic critical field B_(c)(0) =
(_B__c_1_B__c_2)1/2 = 0.32 T. No anisotropic ξ_(ab) and ξ_(c) values can
be estimated from present data. The T_(c)(zero) decreases from 39 K in
zero applied field to 32 K in 1-kG, 28 K in 5-kG, 25 K in 1-T, 22 K in
2-T, 19 K in 3-T, 17 K in 4-T, 16 K in 5-T, 15 K in 6-T, and 14 K in 7-T
field. If the zero resistivity is taken as the lower bound of the vortex
melting temperature T_(m), then the temperature dependence of the vortex
melting transition line B_(m)(T) can be fitted roughly by the formula
B_(m)(T) = B_(m)(0)[ 1 - T/T_(m)]^(3.5) with B_(m)(0) = 35 T and large
exponent 3.5. In the lower field region, B_(m)(T) rises as [1 -
T/T_(m)]² as predicted by the mean-field approximation for temperature
near T_(m) = 39 K.[47] The full phase diagram B_(a)(T) of RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈
is shown in Fig. 6 to exhibit both the high- and low-field features. The
very broad vortex liquid region with ΔT = 17 K in zero field and ΔT = 42
K in 7-T field is extraordinary and is most likely originated from the
coexistence and the interplay between superconductivity and
weak-ferromagnetic order. This magnetic order is so weak that
superconductivity can coexist with the magnetic order, but the effect of
a weak spontaneous magnetic moment μ_(s)∼ 0.1 μ_(B) is detected through
the appearance of a spontaneous vortex state above 30 K with a broad
spontaneous vortex liquid region above T_(m) of 39 K.

To study the broad vortex liquid region, the isothermal field-dependent
magnetoresistivity ρ(B_(a)) for T <T_(c) are shown in Fig. 7, where the
zero resistivity gives a lower bound of the vortex melting field B_(m).
In the resistive vortex liquid region, the magnetoresistivity increases
with increasing applied magnetic field and temperature. At 40 K, the
magnetoresistivity is rapidly approaching a saturation value in an
extrapolated saturation field B_(a)∼ B_(c2)(40 K) ∼ 40 T.

The last issue to be addressed is the depression of T_(c) by small
spontaneous Ru magnetic moments. The weak-ferromagnetic order is
actually a canted antiferromagnetic order that can coexist with
superconductivity. However, the observed T_(c) of 56 K is too low as
compared with 93 K for YBa₂Cu₃O₇ or 103 K for TlBa₂CaCu₂O₇. The
depression of T_(c) by small spontaneous magnetic moment can be
partially recovered by substitution of nonmagnetic Cu ions at Ru site.
For example, in the Ru_(1 − x)Cu_(x)Sr₂GdCu₂O₈ system, T_(c) onset up to
65 K for x = 0.1 and 72 K for x = 0.4 was reported.[26, 29]

## IV Conclusion

The lower critical field with B_(c1)(0) = 12 G and T₀ = 30 K indicates
the existence of a spontaneous vortex state (SVS) between 30 K and T_(c)
of 56 K. This SVS state is closely related with the weak-ferromagnetic
order with a net spontaneous magnetic moment of ∼0.1 μ_(B) per Ru. The
broad vortex liquid region observed above vortex melting line B_(m)(T)
is also due to the coexistence and the interplay between
superconductivity and weak-ferromagnetic order. Indeed, a possible
spontaneous vortex state was also reported in the weak ferromagnetic
superconductor Ru-1222 compound RuSr₂(Eu_(1.5)Ce_(0.5))Cu₂O₁₀.[48]

###### Acknowledgements.

This work was supported by the National Science Council of R.O.C. under
Contract No. NSC93-2112-M007-011. We thank Dr. B. N. Lin for helpful
discussions.

Figure 5: Temperature dependence of magnetoresistivity ρ(T, B_(a)) for
RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈ in applied field up to 7 T.

Figure 7: Field dependence of magnetoresistivity ρ(B_(a)) for
RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈ in the vortex state at 20, 30, and 40 K. The zero
resistivity gives a lower bound of vortex melting field B_(m) at 20 K.

* [9] Electronic address: hcku@phys.nthu.edu.tw * [10] L. Bauernfeind,
W. Widder, and H. F. Braun, Physica C **254**, 151 (1995). * [11] L.
Bauernfeind, W. Widder, and H. F. Braun, J. Low Temp. Phys. **105**,
1605 (1996). * [12] K. B. Tang, Y. T. Qian, L. Yang, Y. D. Zhao, and Y.
H. Zhang, Physica C **282-287**, 947 (1997). * [13] J. L. Tallon, C.
Bernhard, M. Bowden, P. Gilberd, T. Stoto, and D. Pringle, IEEE Trans.
Appl. Supercond. **9**, 1696 (1999). * [14] C. Bernhard, J. L. Tallon,
Ch. Niedermayer, Th. Blasius, A. Golnik, E. Brucher, R. K. Kremer, D. R.
Noakes, C. E. Stronach, and E. J. Ansaldo, Phys. Rev. B **59**, 14099
(1999). * [15] A. C. McLaughlin, W. Zhou, J. P. Attfield, A. N. Fitch,
and J. L. Tallon, Phys. Rev. B **60**, 7512 (1999). * [16] J. L. Tallon,
J. W. Loram, G. V. M. Williams, and C. Bernhard, Phys. Rev. B **61**,
R6471 (2000). * [17] C. Bernhard, J. L. Tallon, E. Brucher, and R. K.
Kremer, Phys. Rev. B **61**, R14960 (2000). * [18] J. W. Lynn, B.
Keimer, C. Ulrich, C. Bernhard, and J. L. Tallon, Phys. Rev. B **61**,
R14964 (2000). * [19] O. Chmaissem, J. D. Jorgensen, H. Shaked, P.
Dollar, and J. L. Tallon, Phys. Rev. B **61**, 6401 (2000). * [20] G. V.
M. Williams and S. Kramer, Phys. Rev. B **62**, 4132 (2000). * [21] C.
W. Chu, Y. Y. Xue, S. Tsui, J. Cmaidalka, A. K. Heilman, B. Lorenz, and
R. L. Meng, Physica C **335**, 231 (2000). * [22] A. C. Mclaughlin, V.
Janowitz, J. A. McAllister, and J. P. Attfield, Chem. Commun.
(Cambridge) **2000**, 1331 (2000). * [23] X. H. Chen, Z. Sun, K. Q.
Wang, Y. M. Xiong, H. S. Yang, H. H. Wen, Y. M. Ni, and Z. X. Zhao, J.
Phys.: Condens. Matter **12**, 10561 (2000). * [24] R. L. Meng, B.
Lorenz, Y. S. Wang, J. Cmaidalka, Y. Y. Xue, and C. W. Chu, Physica C
**353**, 195 (2001). * [25] V. P. S. Awana, J. Nakamura, M. Karppinen,
H. Yamauchi, S. K. Malik, and W. B. Yelon, Physica C **357-360**, 121
(2001). * [26] D. P. Hai, S. Kamisawa, I. Kakeya, M. Furuyama, T.
Mochiku, and K. Kadowaki, Physica C **357-360**, 406 (2001). * [27] A.
P. Litvinchuk, S. Y. Chen, M. N. Ilive, C. L. Chen, C. W. Chu, and V. N.
Popov, Physica C **361**, 234 (2001). * [28] C. T. Lin, B. Liang, C.
Ulrich, C. Berhard, Physica C **364-365**, 373 (2001). * [29] H.
Takagiwa, J. Akimitsu, H. Kawano-Furukawa, and H. Yoshizawa, J. Phys.
Soc. Jpn. **70**, 333 (2001). * [30] J. D. Jorgensen, O. Chmaissem, H.
Shaked, S. Short, P. W. Klamut, B. Dabrowski, and J. L. Tallon, Phys.
Rev. B **63**, 054440 (2001). * [31] R. S. Liu, L.-Y. Jang, H.-H Hung,
and J. L. Tallon, Phys. Rev. B **63**, 212507 (2001). * [32] M. Pozek,
A. Dulcic, D. Paar, G. V. M. Williams, and S. Kramer, Phys. Rev. B
**64**, 064508 (2001). * [33] V. G. Hadjiev, J. Backstrom, V. N. Popov,
M. N. Iliev, R. L. Meng, Y. Y. Xue, and C. W. Chu, Phys. Rev. B **64**,
134304 (2001). * [34] Y. Tokunaga and H. Kotegawa and K. Ishida and Y.
Kitaoka and H. Takagiwa, and J. Akimitsu, Phys. Rev. Lett. **86**, 5767
(2001). * [35] P. W. Klamut, B. Dabrowski, S. Kolesnik, M. Maxwell, and
J. Mais, Phys. Rev. B **63**, 224512 (2001). * [36] B. Lorenz, Y. Y.
Xue, R. L. Meng, and C. W. Chu, Phys. Rev. B **65**, 174503 (2002). *
[37] T. P. Papageorgiou, H. F. Braun, and T. Herrmannsdorfer, Phys. Rev.
B **66**, 104509 (2002). * [38] H. Fujishiro, M. Ikebe, and T.
Takahashi, J. Low Temp. Phys. **131**, 589 (2003). * [39] C. Shaou, H.
F. Braun, and T. P. Papageorgiou, J. Alloys Compd. **351**, 7 (2003). *
[40] A. Vecchione, M. Gombos, C. Tedesco, A. Immirzi, L. Marchese, A.
Frache, C. Noce, and S. Pace, Int. J. Mod. Phys. B **17**, 899 (2003). *
[41] F. Cordero, M. Ferretti, M. R. Cimberle, and R. Masini, Phys. Rev.
B **67**, 144519 (2003). * [42] H. Sakai, N. Osawa, K. Yoshimura, M.
Fang, and K. Kosuge, Phys. Rev. B **67**, 184409 (2003). * [43] Y. Y.
Xue, F. Chen, J. Cmaidalka, R. L. Meng, and C. W. Chu, Phys. Rev. B
**67**, 224511 (2003). * [44] J. E. McCrone, J. L. Tallon, J. R. Cooper,
A. C. MacLaughlin, J. P. Attfield, and C. Bernhard, Phys. Rev. B **68**,
064514 (2003). * [45] A. Lopez, I. Souza Azevedo, J. E. Musa, E.
Baggio-Saitovitch, and S. Garcia Garcia, Phys. Rev. B **68**, 134516
(2003). * [46] S. Garcia, J. E. Musa, R. S. Freitas, and L. Ghivelder,
Phys. Rev. B **68**, 144512 (2003). * [47] T. P. Papageorgiou, H. F.
Braun, T. Gorlach, M. Uhlarz, and H. v. Lohneysen, Phys. Rev. B **68**,
144518 (2003). * [48] P. W. Klamut, B. Dabrowski, S. M. Mini, M.
Maxwell, J. Mais, I. Felner, U. Asaf, F. Ritter, A. Shengelaya, R.
Khasanov, I. M. Savic, H. Keller, A. Wisniewski, R. Puzniak, I. M. Fita,
C. Sulkowski, and M. Matsuiak, Physica C **387**, 33 (2003). * [49] T.
Nachtrab, D. Koelle, R. Kleiner, C. Bernhard, and C. T. Lin, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **92**, 117001 (2004). * [50] Y. Y. Xue, B. Lorenz, A. Baikalov,
J. Cmaidaka, F. Chen, R. L. Meng, and C. W. Chu, Physica C **408-410**,
638 (2004). * [51] S. Garcia and L. Ghivelder, Phys. Rev. B **70**,
052503 (2004). * [52] C. J. Liu, C. S. Sheu, T. W. Wu, L. C. Huang, F.
H. Hsu, H. D. Yang, G. V. M. Williams, and Chia-Jung C. Liu, Phys. Rev.
B **71**, 014502 (2005). * [53] Y. C. Lin, T. Y. Chiu, M. F. Tai, B. N.
Lin, P. C. Guan, and H. C. Ku, Int. J. Mod. Phys. B **19**, 339
(2005). * [54] T. Y. Chiu, Y. C. Lin, M. F. Tai, B. N. Lin, P. C. Guan,
B. C. Chang, and H. C. Ku, Chin. J. Phys. (Taipei) **43**, 616 (2005). *
[55] H. C. Ku, C. Y. Yang, B. C. Chang, B. N. Lin, Y. Y. Hsu, and M. F.
Tai, J. Appl. Phys. **97**, 10B110 (2005). * [56] M. Tinkham,
_Introduction to Superconductivity_ (McGraw-Hill, Inc. Singapore, 1996),
Chap. 9. 2nd ed. * [57] B. D. Hennings, K. D. D. Rathnayaka, D. G.
Naugle, and I. Felner, Physica C **370**, 253 (2002).
