Tunable electronic anisotropy in single-crystal A₂Cr₃As₃ (A=K, Rb)
quasi-one-dimensional superconductors

X. F. Wang,¹ C. Roncaioidi,¹ C. Eckberg,¹ H. Kim,¹ J. Yong,¹ Y.
Nakajima,¹ S. R. Saha,¹ P. Y. Zavalij,² and J. Paglione^(1, 3)

¹Center for Nanophysics and Advanced Materials, Department of Physics,
University of Maryland, College Park, Maryland 20742, USA

²Department of Chemistry, University of Maryland, College Park, Maryland
20742, USA

³Canadian Institute for Advanced Research, Toronto, Canada M5G 1Z8

###### Abstract

Single crystals of A₂Cr₃As₃ (A = K, Rb) were successfully grown using a
self-flux method and studied via structural, transport, and
thermodynamic measurement techniques. The superconducting state
properties between the two species are similar, with critical
temperatures of 6.1 and 4.8 K in K₂Cr₃As₃ and Rb₂Cr₃As₃, respectively.
However, the emergence of a strong normal state electronic anisotropy in
Rb₂Cr₃As₃ suggests a unique electronic tuning parameter is coupled to
the interchain spacing in the A₂Cr₃As₃ structure, which increases with
alkali-metal ionic size while the one-dimensional [(Cr₃As₃)² ⁻ ¹_(∞)
chain structure itself remains essentially unchanged. Together with
dramatic enhancements in both conductivity and magnetoresistance (MR),
the appearance of a strong anisotropy in the MR of Rb₂Cr₃As₃ is
consistent with the proposed quasi-one-dimensional character of band
structure and its evolution with alkali-metal species in this new family
of superconductors.

pacs: 10.1103/PhysRevB.92.020508 + Footnote †: preprint: APS/123-QED

Present address: ]Department of Physics, University of Maryland, College
Park, Maryland 20742, USA

Present address: ]Department of Physics, University of Maryland, College
Park, Maryland 20742, USA with data collection performed at 90 and 250
K. The structure was solved and refined using the Bruker shellxtl
software package, using the peace group $P\overline{6}m2$, with Z = 2
for the formula unit, Rb₂Cr₃As₃. The final anisotropic full-matrix
least-squares refinement on F2 with 23 variables converged to R1(w_(R2))
= 3.39

The lattice parameters of Rb₂Cr₃As₃ are larger than those of K₂Cr₃As₃,
with the larger ionic radius of Rb (1.52 A) as compared to K (1.38 A)
increasing the spacing between the [Cr₃As₃]_(∞) chains as shown in
Fig. 1. Table 1 presents the atomic coordinates obtained from
single-crystal x-ray analysis of Rb₂Cr₃As₃, with results well refined
using a hexagonal crystal structure ($P\overline{6}m2$) and showing no
symmetry changes when cooling down to 90 K. The unitcell of Rb₂Cr₃As₃ is
3.2

The electrical resistivity of K₂Cr₃As₃ and Rb₂Cr₃As₃ single crystals
along the [001] needle direction is presented in Fig. 2, showing T_(c)
values of 6.1 and 4.8 K, respectively, consistent with previous reports
[1; 2; 10]. Transport behavior of K₂Cr₃As₃ crystals is quite similar to
that previously reported for single-crystal samples [10], showing a
marked difference in the temperature dependence as compared to
polycrystalline samples that exhibit an anomalous linear temperature
dependence above T_(c)[1; 2; 3]. The residual resistivity ratio RRR =
R(300 K)/R(7 K) for K₂Cr₃As₃ is 15, slightly larger than the reported
value of 10 for polycrystals [1; 10] and smaller than in previous work
[10]. For the latter study, the reported ratio is 50, while the residual
resistivity of ρ₀ ≃ 25 μΩ cm is about half of the value measured in this
study, indicating a notable sample dependence of resistivity without a
notable change in T_(c). For single-crystal Rb₂Cr₃As₃ synthesized in the
exact same manner as K₂Cr₃As₃, we obtain a much larger RRR value of 125
as compared to K₂Cr₃As₃[1; 10] and Rb₂Cr₃As₃[2] studies, likely
indicating very high crystalline purity in this system and a possible
sensitivity to grain boundary effects as encountered in polycrystalline
studies.

Interestingly, the resistivity (∼200 μΩ cm) of single-crystal Rb₂Cr₃As₃
at 300 K is notably reduced compared to

Figure 1: (Color online) Schematic view of the structure of K₂Cr₃As₃ and
Rb₂Cr₃As₃. A detailed comparison of the lattice parameters is listed in
Table 2. Data for K₂Cr₃As₃ is from Ref. [1].

that of K₂Cr₃As₃, by a factor of approximately 4. Assuming the phonon
scattering is similar in the two compounds, this decrease may be a
result of qualitative changes in the electronic structure, consistent
with the theoretical prediction of significant changes in the Fermi
surface by J. Wu _et al._[14], who point out that an extra quasi-1D
surface near [00×] and changes in the three-dimensional surfaces could
result in an increase in conductivity in Rb₂Cr₃As₃ as compared to
K₂Cr₃As₃. We also observe striking contrasts in the magnetoresistance
(MR) of K₂Cr₃As₃ and Rb₂Cr₃As₃ crystals. The extremely small MR measured
in K₂Cr₃As₃ (<1

The magnetic susceptibility χ of K₂Cr₃As₃ and Rb₂Cr₃As₃ single crystals,
shown in Fig. 4, confirms the onset of diamagnetic Meissner screening at
the same T_(c) values reported above. In K₂Cr₃As₃, a shielding fraction
of ∼90

γ_(n) = 39.5 mJ K⁻² mol⁻¹ and the phonon coefficient β = 2.8 mJ K⁻⁴
mol⁻¹. The value for γ_(n) is somewhat smaller than that reported for
polycrystalline samples (55.1 mJ K⁻² mol⁻¹) [2], while that of β is
close to previous reports. We extract the electronic component C_(e)
using these parameters and plot its temperature dependence as
C_(e)/(γ_(n)T) in the inset of Fig. 5, showing the dimensionless heat
capacity jump at T_(c) to be ΔC/γ_(n)T_(c) = 0.62, much lower than the
reported values of 1.8 in Rb₂Cr₃As₃[2] and 2.0-2.4 in K₂Cr₃As₃[1,10]. It
is also lower than the BCS value of 1.43 expected for a conventional
superconductor, which could be related to the apparent reduced
superconducting volume fraction observed in susceptibility measurements
noted above, or more intrinsic origins to do with the nature of
superconductivity that require further investigation at lower
temperatures.

In order to understand the extent of the influence of quasi-1D band
structure components on the superconducting state, the anisotropy of
H_(c2) was investigated in both K₂Cr₃As₃ and Rb₂Cr₃As₃. The resistive
transition was tracked as a function of field angle, as shown in Figs. 6
and 7, using orientation

Figure 4: Magnetic susceptibility of K₂Cr₃As₃ and Rb₂Cr₃As₃
single-crystal collections under zero-field cooled and field-cooled
conditions. Panel (a) presents measurements of K₂Cr₃As₃ single crystals
with 1 mT field applied along the [001] needle direction. The inset
shows field-dependent magnetization of K₂Cr₃As₃ single crystals with
field applied both parallel and perpendicular to [001]. Panel (b)
presents measurements of Rb₂Cr₃As₃ single crystals with 2 mT field
applied along the [001] needle direction. The inset shows the
field-dependent magnetization for parallel (H_(∥)) fields.

Figure 5: (Color online) Heat capacity of Rb₂Cr₃As₃ single crystals with
H ⊥ [001]. The inset shows the normalized electronic specific heat
C_(e)/(γ_(n)T) as a function of temperature; the blue line is the
theoretical BCS expectation for a single-band s-wave superconductor (see
text).

angles θ = 0^(∘), 45^(∘), 60^(∘), and 90^(∘) from the H_(⊥) orientation
for K₂Cr₃As₃ and θ = 0^(∘) and 90^(∘) for Rb₂Cr₃As₃. For K₂Cr₃As₃, the
initial slope dH_(c2)(T_(c))/dT varies from 5.0 to 16.1 T/K, as observed
previously [10], with a rapid increase that is even more significant
than what were observed in other quasi-1D superconducting states, as
shown in Fig. 8. For Rb₂Cr₃As₃, the initial slope dH_(c2)(T_(c))/dT has
a similar range between H_(⊥) and H_(∥) orientations, with values of 4.4
and 14 T/K, respectively. However, the temperature dependence of
H_(c2)(T) in Rb₂Cr₃As₃ is quite different than that of K₂Cr₃As₃ in the
field range up to 14 T, showing a positive curvature for H_(⊥) and
negative curvature for H_(∥) as shown in Fig. 7. In fact, the H_(c2)(T)
curves for the two field orientations cross near ∼12 T, in a manner
similar to that observed in other classic quasi-1D superconductors such
as (TMTSF)₂ClO₄[15] and (TMTSF)₂PF₆[5]. In these organic
superconductors, a similar trend is observed where a diverging
temperature dependence is observed in the H_(⊥) orientation, while a
saturating Pauli-limited dependence occurs for H_(∥) (parallel to the
conducting direction). In Li-based purple bronze, such Pauli-limited
behavior can be also observed with fields applied along the conducting
chain, while a divergent behavior is observed in the other two field
orientations [16].

Recent pulsed-field work on K₂Cr₃As₃ single crystals indeed shows such a
crossing to occur at higher fields, with H_(c2)^(⊥)(T) surpassing
H_(c2)^(∥)(T) near 15 T and indications of Pauli-limited behavior in the
H_(∥) orientation [17]. Figure 8 presents a comparison between the
A₂Cr₃As₃ compounds and the organic systems (TMTSF)₂ClO₄ and (TMTSF)₂PF₆,
plotting the temperature dependence of the H_(c2) anisotropy parameter
Γ(T) = H_(c2)^(∥)(T)/H_(c2)^(⊥)(T) (with H_(∥) and H_(⊥) relative to the
c axis for A₂Cr₃As₃, and in the a- and c-axis directions, respectively,
for TMTSF salts). A similar change in Γ, from large near T_(c) to near
unity at lower temperatures, is seen in both the organics and A₂Cr₃As₃
materials, indicating a resemblance. Although a similar Γ(T) evolution
was also found in higher-dimensional systems such as K-doped
BaFe₂As₂[18, 19], the notable difference is in the crossing (i.e.,
Γ = 1) point, where the H_(⊥) component begins to take off in the
quasi-1D systems. While a mild anisotropy was previously reported for
K₂Cr₃As₃ single crystals [10], it is clear that the observable trend in
the limited field range available for our measurements of K₂Cr₃As₃ is
very similar to that of Rb₂Cr₃As₃, and indeed follows the same behavior
at higher fields [17] as shown in Fig. 8 for a normalized temperature
regime.

Although higher field data for Rb₂Cr₃As₃ is lacking, the apparent
likeness of Γ(T) between Rb₂Cr₃As₃ and K₂Cr₃As₃ presents an apparent
contradiction: contrasting MR anisotropies are suggestive of a highly
tunable quasi-1D normal state electronic structure that differs in the
two compounds, while the normalized Γ(T) behavior is very comparable for
each. This conundrum could be readily dismissed if Pauli limiting were
the dominant pair-breaking mechanism, as the comparison of
superconducting condensation energy and Zeeman energy is, to first
order, independent of details of the electronic band structure of the
host material. However, the observed combination of orbital (H_(⊥)) and
Pauli (H_(∥)) limited H_(c2) behaviors in K₂Cr₃As₃[17] calls for a less
simplified explanation. For instance, the spin-locked Cooper pairing
scenario proposed by Balakirev _et al._, where the pair singlet

Figure 7: (Color online) Upper critical field of Rb₂Cr₃As₃ single
crystal under perpendicular [panel (a)] and parallel [panel (b)] field
orientations. Temperature dependence of H_(c2) from resistance data is
shown in panel (c), with T_(c)(H) defined by the midpoint between zero
and full resistance. This is compared with T_(c) (H) data obtained from
heat capacity with H ⊥ [001] orientation (solid purple circles), with
T_(c) values defined by the midpoint of the jump in specific heat and
error bars corresponding to the transition width.

spins are pinned along the quasi-1D chain direction [17], may provide a
pair-breaking scenario common to all A₂Cr₃As₃ superconductors, given
their pairing attraction is indeed tied to a low-dimensional spin
fluctuation mechanism in all three systems. Above all, this highlights
the need for detailed experimental studies of the electronic structure
as well as higher-field H_(c2) studies of Rb₂Cr₃As₃ in order to
understand how the anisotropy of superconducting state properties is
affected by the strongly enhanced normal state anisotropy found in
Rb₂Cr₃As₃.

In summary, we report successful synthesis of high-quality A₂Cr₃As₃
single crystals with A= K and Rb using a self-flux method, providing the
first comparison of single-crystal properties between two members of
this new superconductor family. The increase in ionic size from K to Rb
causes an increase in the spacing between quasi-one-dimensional chains
in the hexagonal crystal structure of Rb₂Cr₃As₃ as compared to K₂Cr₃As₃,
while keeping the intrachain dimensions mostly unchanged. While the
superconducting state properties are comparable between the two systems,
the normal state resistivity shows a striking evolution, with a 325

The authors acknowledge R. L. Greene, H. Hodovanets, J. P. Hu, Y. P.
Jiang, L. M. Wang, and X. H. Zhang for valuable discussions and
experimental assistance. This work was supported by AFOSR through Grant
No. FA9550-14-1-0332 and the Gordon and Betty Moore Foundation’s EPiQS
Initiative through Grant No. GBMF4419.

## References

* [1] J.-K. Bao, J.-Y. Liu, C.-W. Ma, Z.-H. Meng, Z.-T. Tang, Y.-L. Sun,
H.-F. Zhai, H. Jiang, H. Bai, C.-M. Feng, Z.-A. Xu, and G.-H. Cao,
Superconductivity in quasi-one-dimensional K₂Cr₃As₃ with significant
electron correlations, Phys. Rev. X **5**, 011013 (2015). * [2] Z. T.
Tang, J. K. Bao, Y. Liu, Y. L. Sun, A. Ablimit, H. F. Zhai, H. Jiang, C.
M. Feng, Z. A. Xu, and G. H. Cao, Unconventional superconductivity in
quasi-one-dimensional Rb₂Cr₃As₃, Phys. Rev. B **91**, 020506(R)
(2015). * [3] Z. T. Tang, J. K. Bao, Z. Wang, H. Bai, H. Jiang, Y. Liu,
H. F. Zhai, C. M. Feng, Z. A. Xu, and G. H. Cao, Superconductivity in
quasi-one-dimensional Cs₃Cr₃As₃ with large interchain distance, Sci.
China Mater. **58**, 16 (2015). * [4] J. Shingawa, Y. Kurosaki, F.
Zhang, C. Parker, S. E. Brown, D. Jerome, J. B. Christensen, and K.
Bechgaard, Superconducting state of the organic conductor (TMTSF)₂ClO₄,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **98**, 147002 (2007). * [5] I. J. Lee, M. J. Naughton,
G. M. Danner, and P. M. Chaikin, Anisotropy of the upper critical field
in (TMTSF)₂PF₆, Phys. Rev. Lett. **78**, 3555 (1997). * [6] D. Jerome,
A. Mazuad, M. Ribault, and K. Bechgaard, Superconductivity in a
synthetic organic conductor (TMTSF)₂PF₆, J. Phys. Lett. **41**, 95
(1980). * [7] K. Bechgaard, K. Carneiro, M. Olsen, F. B. Rasmussen, and
C. S. Jacobsen, Zero-pressure organic superconductor:
Di-(Tetramethyltetrasenealfulvalinium)-Perchlorate [TMTSF)₂ClO₄], Phys.
Rev. Lett. **46**, 852 (1981). * [8] M. Greenblatt, W. H. McCarroll, R.
Neifeld, M. Croft, and J. V. Waszczak, Quasi two-dimensional electronic
properties of the lithium molybdenum bronze, Li_(0.9)Mo₀O₁₇, Solid State
Commun. **51**, 671 (1984). * [9] J. C. Armici, M. Decroux, O. Fischer,
M. Potel, R. Chevrel, and M. Sergent, A new pseudo-one-dimensional
superconductor: Tl₂Mo₀Se₆, Solid State Commun. **33**, 607 (1980). *
[10] T. Kong, S. L. Bud’ko, and P. C. Canfield, Anisotropic H_(c2),
thermodynamic and transport measurements, and pressure dependence of
T_(c) in K₂Cr₃As₃ single crystals, Phys. Rev. B **91**, 020507(R)
(2015). * [11] G. M. Pang, M. Smidman, W. B. Jiang, J. K. Bao, Z. F.
Weng, Y. F. Wang, L. Jiao, J. L. Zhang, G. H. Cao, and H. Q. Yuan,
Evidence for nodal superconductivity in quasi-one-dimensional K₂Cr₃As₃,
Phys. Rev. B **91**, 220502(R) (2015). * [12] H. Z. Zhi, T. Imai, F. L.
Ning, J. K. Bao, and G. H. Cao, NMR Investigation of the
quasi-one-dimensional superconductor K₂Cr₃As₃, Phys. Rev. Lett. **114**,
147004 (2015). * [13] K. Kihou, T. Saito, S. Ishida, M. Nakajima, Y. H.
Fukazawa, Y. Kohori, T. Ito, S. Uchida, A. Iyo, C. Lee, and H. Eisaki,
Single crystal growth and characterization of the iron-based
superconductor KFe₂As₃ synthesized by KAs flux method, J. Phys. Soc.
Jpn. **79**, 124713 (2010). * [14] X. X. Wu, C. C. Le, J. Yuan, H. Fan,
and J. P. Hu, Magnetism in quasi-one-dimensional A₂Cr₃As₃ (An=K,Rb)
superconductors, Chinese Phys. Lett. **32**, 057401 (2015). * [15] S.
Yonezawa, S. Kusaba, Y. Maeno, P. Auban-Senzier, C. Pasquier, K.
Bechgaard, and D. Jerome, Anomalous in-plane anisotropy of the onset of
superconductivity in (TMTSF)₂ClO₄, Phys. Rev. Lett. **100**, 117002
(2008). * [16] J.-F. Mercure, A. F. Bangura, X. Xu, N. Wakeham, A.
Carrington, P. Walmsley, M. Greenblatt, and N. E. Hussey, Upper critical
magnetic field far above the paramagnetic pair-breaking limit of
superconducting one-dimensional Li_(0.9)Mo₀O₁₇; single crystals, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **108**, 187003 (2012). * [17] F. F. Balakirev, T. Kong, M.
Jaime, R. D. McDonald, C. H. Melek, A. Gurevich, P. C. Canfield, and S.
L. Bud’ko, Anisotropy reversal of the upper critical field at low
temperatures and spin-locked superconductivity in K₂Cr₃As₃, Phys. Rev. B
**91**, 220505(R) (2015). * [18] M. M. Altarawneh, K. Collar, C. H.
Mielke, N. Ni, S. L. Bud’ko, and P. C. Canfield, Determination of
anisotropic H_(c2) up to 60 T in Ba_(0.85)K_(0.43)Fe₂As₂ single
crystals, Phys. Rev. B **78**, 220505 (2008). * [19] H. Q. Yuan, J.
Singleton, F. F. Balakirev, S. A. Baily, G. F. Chen, J. L. Luo, and N.
L. Wang, Nearly isotropic superconductivity in (Ba,K)Fe₂As₂, Nature
(London) **457**, 565 (2009).
