Dimensional crossover in the electrical and magnetic properties of the
layered LaSb₂ superconductor under pressure: The role of phase
fluctuations

S. Guo,¹ D. P. Young,¹ P. W. Adams,¹ X. S. Wu,¹ Julia Y. Chan,² G. T.
McCandless,² and J. F. DiTusa^(1, *)

¹Department of Physics and Astronomy, Louisiana State University, Baton
Rouge, Louisiana 70803, USA

²Department of Chemistry, Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge,
Louisiana 70803, USA

Received 4 March 2011; published 31 May 2011

###### Abstract

We present electrical transport, magnetization, and ac as well as dc
magnetic susceptibility measurements of the highly anisotropic compound
LaSb₂. Our data display a very broad anisotropic transition upon cooling
below 2.5 K into a clean superconducting state with a field-dependent
magnetization that is consistent with type I behavior. We identify
distinct features of two-dimensionality in both the transport and
magnetic properties. Application of hydrostatic pressure induces a two-
to three-dimensional crossover evidenced by a reduced anisotropy and
transition width. The superconducting transition appears
phase-fluctuation-limited at ambient pressure, with fluctuations
observed for temperatures greater than eight times the superconducting
critical temperature.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.83.174520 PACS number(s): 74.62.Fj, 74.25.-q,
74.40.-n, 74.70.Ad

## I Introduction

Superconductivity in reduced dimensions has intrigued condensed matter
physicists for over 40 years. Highly anisotropic materials with
superconducting (SC) phases, such as TaS₂ and NbSe₂,[1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6]
as well as thin SC metallic films[7, 8, 9, 10] and organic
compounds,[11] were investigated to search for novel properties stemming
from dimensionality effects. More recent discoveries of unconventional
superconductivity in layered cuprates,[12]¹³ MgB₂,[13] and iron
pnictides,[14, 15, 16, 17] all possessing anisotropic crystal
structures, have highlighted the importance of the layered structure in
determining the SC and normal properties of these compounds.

One of the more interesting discoveries in these layered superconductors
is the realization that fluctuations in the superconducting phase may
play a dominant role in determining the superconducting critical
temperature, T_(c). The superconducting order parameter has both an
amplitude and phase, and for nearly all superconducting materials the
phase is unimportant in determining T_(c). Quasiparticle pairing and
long-range phase coherence occur essentially simultaneously at T_(c).
However, as Emery and Kivelson have pointed out, this is likely not to
be true under the conditions of low superconducting carrier density and
quasi-two-dimensionality. These conditions are realized in the
underdoped cuprate superconductors, as they are derived by small doping
of layered Mott insulating parent compounds.[18, 19] Experiments in
these underdoped materials find evidence for pairing well above
T_(c),[20, 21, 22] and indicate the importance of phase fluctuations at
temperatures T ∼ T_(c).[19]

Here we present resistivity, magnetization, and ac susceptibility
measurements on the highly layered, low-carrier-density, SC compound
LaSb₂.[23, 24, 25] LaSb₂ has been of interest because of its large,
linear in magnetic field, magnetoresistance, which is still poorly
understood.[26] Previous transport, photoemission, and optical
conductivity investigations reveal LaSb₂ to be a good
low-carrier-density metal with no indications of competing order such as
a charge density wave transition.[25, 27] We present evidence that the
ambient pressure SC phase, in which only a minority of crystals display
a complete Meissner effect at low temperature, is characteristic of
poorly coupled two-dimensional (2D) SC planes. The anisotropy is reduced
and the transition is dramatically sharpened as pressure is applied,
indicating a crossover from a 2D to a more traditional three-dimensional
(3D) SC phase. Our data demonstrate that the extraordinarily wide, and
many times incomplete, SC transition at ambient pressure likely results
from 2D phase fluctuations. These phase fluctuations persist for
temperatures much lower than the onset temperature for
superconductivity, $T_{\rm onset}$, that is, at temperatures an order of
magnitude larger than the global SC critical temperature, T_(c). This
places LaSb₂ among a handful of systems[9, 10, 19] exhibiting
phase-fluctuation-limited superconductivity, and is unusual in that it
displays behavior consistent with clean, type I, superconductivity.[28]

## II Experimental details

LaSb₂ is a member of the RSb₂ (R = La-Nd, Sm) family of compounds that
all form in the orthorhombic, highly layered SmSb₂ structure[23, 26, 29]
in which alternating La/Sb layers and 2D rectangular sheets of Sb atoms
are stacked along the c axis. These structural characteristics give rise
to the anisotropic physical properties observed in all the compounds in
the RSb₂ series.[23, 24, 26] A large number of single crystals of LaSb₂
were grown from high-purity La and Sb by the metallic flux method. The
resulting crystals were large, flat, micaceous plates, which are
malleable and easily cleaved. In addition, polycrystalline samples grown
in crucibles using a stoichiometric mixture of the constituents had
$T_{\rm onset}$ essentially identical to the crystals. The SmSb₂
structure-type with lattice constants of a = 0.6219(15), b = 0.6278(15),
and c = 1.846(5) nm with Z = 8 was confirmed by single-crystal x-ray
diffraction. Resistivity, ρ, measurements were performed with currents
either in the ab plane or along the c axis using standard four-probe ac
techniques at 17 or 27 Hz from 0.05  ≤ T≤ 300 K. Data presented here are
from single-crystal samples with residual resistance ratios of 70-90
between 300 and 4 K. Magnetization, M, and susceptibility, χ, were
measured with a quantum design SQUID magnetometer for T> 1.75 K and a
dilution refrigerator ac susceptibility probe for T≥ 50 mK. These were
corrected for demagnetization effects based upon crystal dimensions. Our
ac susceptibility measurements were found to be free of Eddy current
effects as our measurements were independent of excitation frequency and
amplitude in the range of parameters employed. The susceptibility of
several crystals was measured in the SQUID magnetometer with applied
hydrostatic pressure, P, of up to 6.5 kbar in a beryllium-copper cell
previously described.[30]

## III Experimental results

### Resistivity

Shown in Fig. 1 is the resistivity measured with the current in the ab
plane, ρ_(ab), and along the c axis, ρ_(c), of LaSb₂ as a function of T
in zero magnetic field, H. Note that the normal state resistivity is
highly anisotropic with ρ_(ab) = 1.2μΩ cm at 4 K and ρ_(c)/ρ_(ab) ∼ 200.
The ρ_(ab) data suggest a broad SC transition with an onset apparent
near $T_{\rm onset}\sim 1.7$ K. This onset temperature varied from
sample to sample with crystals having $T_{\rm onset}$ as high as 2.5 K.
Nonetheless, a true ρ = 0 state is not reached until 0.7 K. In contrast,
the T dependence of ρ_(c) indicates an onset near 1.0 K followed by a
ρ = 0 state below 0.5 K. Interestingly, the ρ_(c) curve also shows a
small peak for $T<T_{\rm onset}$ similar to what has been reported in
(LaSe)_(1.14)(NbSe₂) (Ref. [31]) and attributed to a quasiparticle
tunneling channel in the interlayer transport.

All of these features can be suppressed with the application of magnetic
fields as demonstrated in Fig. 2, where a compelling difference in
ρ_(ab) and ρ_(c) with H oriented along the ab planes is displayed. We
observe that a field of ∼500 Oe completely destroys the SC currents
along the c axis while their counterparts in the ab planes remain
intact. This demonstrates a relatively poor coupling between the SC
condensate residing on neighboring Sb planes.

### Magnetic susceptibility and magnetization

Similar features are observed in the magnetic response of the SC phase
of LaSb₂, Fig. 3. Because χ and M are representative of the
thermodynamic state of this system, the fragility of the superconducting
phase results in a high sensitivity to growth conditions, magnetic
fields, and, as we show later, P. Although all crystals measured–more
than

Figure 3: (Color) Ambient pressure temperature-dependent susceptibility.
(a) Real part of the ac susceptibility, χ^(′), for excitation fields
along the c axis and in the ab plane vs temperature, T, for two
representative crystals, s1 and s2. Inset: detail near the onset of
superconductivity, $T_{\rm onset}$, as indicated by the arrow. The data
for sample s1 in this frame have been previously presented in Ref. [25],
which was published under license in _Journal of Physics_: Conference
Series by IOP Publishing Ltd. (b) The imaginary part of the ac
susceptibility, χ^(′′), for the same samples and field orientations as
in frame (a). Symbols represent the same samples and orientations in
both frames.

Figure 2: (Color) Field dependence of resistivity. Resistivity, ρ,
divided by the normal-state resistivity, ρ_(N), ρ/ρ_(N) vs magnetic
field, H, in the ab plane for currents perpendicular to H in plane and
along the c axis.

20–displayed $2.25\leqslant T_{\rm onset}\leqslant 2.5$ K in χ (Fig. 3
inset), a broad range of behavior was found in χ(T) with an incomplete
Meissner effect observed in most crystals. This disparate behavior is
demonstrated in Fig. 3, where the real and imaginary parts of the ac
susceptibility χ^(′) and χ^(′′) are plotted for two of the three
crystals whose magnetic susceptibility was explored at dilution
refrigerator temperatures. One crystal, sample s1, displays a very broad
transition to a χ^(′) = −1 state at T < 0.2 K for an excitation fields,
H_(ac), oriented along the c axis. For H_(ac) oriented along the ab
planes the diamagnetic signal remains incomplete for s1, approaching
−0.75 at our lowest T, while the second sample, s2, displays only a
small diamagnetic signal. The full Meissner state is s1 for H_(ac) ∥ c
is only apparent below 0.2 K despite a diamagnetism consistent with type
I superconductivity at T < 2.5 K, as demonstrated in Fig. 4. Here,
similarly large anisotropies are apparent in the magnetic field, H,
dependence of M, that faithfully reflect the crystalline structure. The
dc H dependence of χ^(′) and χ^(′′) for s1 in the two-field orientations
is shown in Fig. 5 at a few T’s. In Figs. 4 and 5 the small
characteristic fields for the destruction of the Meissner state are
apparent.

### Hydrostatic pressure

The application of pressure dramatically reduces the anisotropy and
significantly sharpens the transition, as we demonstrate in Figs. 6 and
7. Here we present the P, T, and H dependence of χ^(′) for temperatures
near the onset of superconductivity with the same field orientations as
in Fig. 3. Although we have only followed χ^(′) down to 1.78 K it is
apparent that by 4.4 kbar the transition width has been reduced to ∼0.1
K with χ^(′) = −1 at 1.8 K for H_(ac) ∥ c, while for H_(ac) ∥ ab,
χ^(′) < −0.75. Increasing the pressure beyond 4.4 kbar leads to a
reduction of $T_{\rm onset}$ without further change in the transition
width apparent to 6.5 kbar. χ^(′)(H) for the two H_(ac) orientations
shown in Fig. 7 are much less anisotropic at these pressures as well,
and a continuous reduction of H_(c) with P is apparent. In addition, we
do not observe the sample-to-sample variability that was so apparent in
the ambient pressure χ^(′)(T).

### Critical field anisotropy

We have explored the anisotropy of H_(c) by measuring ρ(H) as a function
of field orientation at 0.1 K in Fig. 8. We observe a factor of 4
difference in H_(c) as the crystal is rotated from an orientation where
the ab planes are nearly parallel to H (θ = 0), H_(c)^(∥), until they
are perpendicular to H (θ = 90^(o)), H_(c)^(⊥). For comparison we plot
the 2D Tinkham formula [32] prediction, solid line, having no adjustable
parameters beyond fixing H_(c)^(∥) and H_(c)^(⊥) to match our data. The
sharp cusp in the data as θ → 0 is considered a clear signature of 2D
superconductivity. We note that H_(c)^(∥) is much smaller than the
paramagnetic limit, which has been exceeded in some layered
materials.[3, 4] Our measured H_(c)^(∥) is likely intrinsically limited
by the long mean-free path, ℓ, for the carriers and the related large
diffusion constant,[32] as well as experimentally limited by the
flatness of our crystals.

In Fig. 9 we present the anisotropy in the critical fields at 1.78 K as
a function of applied hydrostatic pressure, P, as determined by the real
part of the ac magnetic susceptibility. In this experiment the crystal
was nominally aligned (±10^(o)) to the applied magnetic field as the
sample space in the SQUID magnetometer did not allow for a careful
sample rotation such

Figure 4: (Color) Ambient pressure magnetization. Magnetization, M, at
T = 1.8 K vs. H along the c axis and ab planes. Arrows indicate critical
fields for the destruction of superconductivity.

Figure 5: (Color) Ambient pressure field-dependent susceptibility. (a)
Real part of the ac susceptibility, χ^(′), for sample s1 vs magnetic
field, H, at temperatures identified in the figure. Data shown at 60 mK
for two orientations of the ac excitation field. (b) Imaginary part of
the ac susceptibility, χ^(′′), for the same sample, temperatures, and
field orientations as in frame (a).

Figure 8: (Color online) Critical field angular dependence. Critical
field for the suppression of superconductivity, H_(c) vs angle, θ, from
H parallel to the ab planes as measured in the resistivity at 0.1 K.
Solid (dashed) line is a plot of the 2D (anisotropic 3D) Tinkham formula
(Ref. [32]).

Figure 6: (Color) Pressure and temperature dependence of the
superconducting transition. Real part of the ac susceptibility, χ^(′),
for magnetic fields, H, along the c axis (a) and along the ab planes (b)
vs pressure, P, and temperature, T. These contour plots are produced by
simple interpolation of measurements performed at 12 (11) different
pressures in frame a (b).The data at 4.4 kbar in this figure have been
previously presented in Ref. [25], which was published under license in
_Journal of Physics_: Conference Series by IOP Publishing Ltd.

Figure 7: (Color) Pressure and field dependence of the superconducting
transition. Real part of the ac susceptibility, χ^(′), at 1.78 K vs
pressure, P, and magnetic field, H, along the c axis (a) and along the
ab planes (b). Data for increasing H shown in all frames. These contour
plots are produced by simple interpolation of measurements performed at
12 (11) different pressures in frame a (b).

Figure 9: (Color online) Critical field anisotropy. Anisotropy of the
critical field, H_(c), for H ∥ ab planes, H_(c)^(†), divided by that for
H ∥ c axis, H_(c)^(†), vs pressure, P, as determined by the real part of
the ac susceptibility at 1.78 K.

tunneling between Sb planes. These observations lead us to conclude that
LaSb₂ under ambient pressure conditions is undergoing two transitions: a
planar superconducting transition initiating at $T_{\rm onset}$ and a
secondary bulk transition below ∼0.5 K associated with the emergence of
coherent interlayer coupling. We believe that the interplane Josephson
coupling of essentially 2D SC planes mediates the high-pressure 3D
phase. It follows that the sample-to-sample differences that we observed
in the ambient pressure magnetization (see, e.g., Fig. 3) are a
manifestation of the sensitivity of our crystals due to the proximity of
LaSb₂ to a fully 3D SC phase.

Estimates based upon our previous ρ(T, H), Hall effect,[26] and de
Haas-van Alphen (dHvA)[24] measurements confirm that our crystals have
small carrier density, n, small carrier mass, m^(*), and highly metallic
in-plane transport that make anisotropic, type I (see Fig. 4)
superconductivity sensible in LaSb₂. The Hall coefficient with H ∥ c is
indicative of n = 2 × 10²⁰ cm⁻³. The small n and low ρ_(ab) indicate
highly conductive transport along the ab plane at low temperatures with
an estimated Hall mobility of 2.7 m²/Vs and mean-free path, ℓ, of ∼3.5
μm.[26] The reduction of the dHvA amplitudes with T is small so that
m^(*) is only 0.2 times the bare electron mass.[24] With these
parameters, simple estimates[32] of the London penetration depth, λ, and
Pippard coherence length, ξ₀, for currents in the ab plane give
λ ≥ 0.15μm, dependent on the SC condensate fraction, and ξ₀ = 1.6μm,
much larger than in typical intermetallic compounds. The large ℓ puts
our crystals in the clean limit with κ = λ/ξ₀ < 1 consistent with type I
superconductivity and a small critical field, H_(c). Type I
superconductivity is rare in intermetallic compounds and its discovery
here is a reflection of the extraordinarily long scattering times for
currents in the ab planes.[26, 28]

There are several other mechanisms for these observations that we have
considered. The first is the possibility that the SC state at P = 0 is
restricted to the surfaces of the crystals and that a seemingly
unrelated 3D SC state is induced by the application of P. The large
Meissner fractions we observe in some of the samples and the continuous
evolution of the SC state with P make this very unlikely. Second, we
have considered the possibility that we are observing an anisotropic 3D
SC state[33, 34, 35, 36] emanating from the 2D-like bands of LaSb₂.[24]
Anisotropic 3D superconductivity is consistent with the ratio of
H_(c)^(∥)/H_(c)^(⊥), but not the angular dependence in Fig. 8. In
addition, it is difficult to explain the large anisotropy in ρ and
χ^(′)(T) in Figs. 1, 2, and Fig. 3 in such a scenario. Finally, we point
out that the wide superconducting transition at ambient pressure is not
likely caused by impurities or second phases in our crystals since our
x-ray-diffraction data are free from extraneous peaks, we deduce very
long mean-free paths for carrier transport along the ab planes, and
because the application of moderate pressure is unlikely to suppress the
effects of impurities or defects.

Thus, our data suggest that at low T LaSb₂ is best described as a set of
Josephson coupled 2D planar superconductors. Interestingly, our
observation of an extraordinarily wide, and often times incomplete, SC
transition at P = 0, along with the dramatic changes apparent with
moderate P, indicate that the SC transition may be limited by phase and
amplitude fluctuations of the SC order parameter. Emery and Kivelson
have demonstrated that phase fluctuations are dominant when there is
small phase stiffness[18] and emphasize the role of small carrier
density in amplifying the effects of phase fluctuations in
high-temperature cuprate superconductors. Experiments have revealed that
the underdoped high-T_(c) SC cuprates are indeed
phase-fluctuation-limited.[19] In general, the importance of phase
fluctuations can be determined by a comparison of T_(c) with the zero
temperature phase stiffness, V₀ ∝ L/λ², which gives the temperature at
which phase order would disappear, $T_{0}^{\rm max.}$[18] Here, L is the
characteristic length scale which in quasi-2D superconductors is the
larger of the spacing between SC layers or $\sqrt{\pi}\,\xi_{\perp}$,
where ξ_(⊥) is the coherence length perpendicular to the ab planes. We
point out that our estimated value for n for LaSb₂ from Hall effect
measurements is only ∼2

One of the consequences of a phase-limited transition is an extended
temperature range where χ^(′) is dominated by fluctuations at T > T_(c).
Ginzburg-Landau (GL) theory, applicable in proximity to T_(c), predicts
power-law dependencies for χ^(′)/T in the reduced temperature,
t = T_(c)/(T − T_(c)).[32] To check for such power laws in the T range
over which the SC phase develops we have plotted −χ^(′)/T as a function
of t for s1, where we have used the maximum χ^(′′)(T) to define T_(c),
in Fig. 10. The lines in this figure represent the form expected in 2D,
χ^(′)/T ∝ t, and 3D where χ^(′)/T ∝ t^(0.5). The data at

Figure 10: (Color online) Superconducting fluctuations. Negative of the
ac magnetic susceptibility, χ^(′), divided by temperature, T, −χ^(′)/T
for H∥ to the c axis vs reduced temperature, T_(c)/(T − T_(c)) with
logarithmic axes. Sample s1 at P = 0 (blue diamonds) and for a second
sample with P = 2.7 kbar (green bullets) and P = 4.4 kbar (blue
triangles). The dashed line is a linear dependence and the dash-dotted
line is a square-root dependence, representing the simplest model of
two-dimensional and three-dimensional fluctuation-limited
superconductivity.

ambient pressure are well described by a power-law form over a decade in
t with an exponent that approaches that of the GL 2D prediction. For
larger t the data fall significantly below this prediction, displaying a
behavior much more consistent with the 3D fluctuations. This crossover
to a 3D form is expected as ξ diverges at T_(c). However, for the large
values of −χ^(′) that we measure, for example, at t ∼ 1 we find
−χ^(′)/T ∼ 0.1, require ξ₀ ∼ 11μm, about 7 times the estimate based upon
transport data. In contrast, the transitions at P > 2 kbar are not well
described by a power law in our range of t as is commonly the case when
the SC state has a 3D character and the fluctuation dominated regime is
restricted to much larger t.

In order to sum up our data, we present a proposed pressure and
temperature phase diagram that is consistent with our magnetization and
resistivity measurements in Fig. 11. Since our ambient pressure
magnetization data features some sample-to-sample variation, we chose to
use sample s1, the magnetic properties of which are demonstrated in
Figs. 3, 5, and 10, as representative for the purposes of this phase
diagram. This sample displays a large diamagnetic signal below 0.5 K and
we have collected the most detailed data set for this crystal. Our
proposed phase diagram features a 2D superconducting phase at the lowest
temperatures and pressures, as well as an extended temperature and
pressure range where 2D superconducting fluctuations are present. A 3D
superconducting phase, along with attendant 3D superconducting
fluctuations at slightly high temperatures, is stabilized by pressure.
The 3D superconducting phase is expected to survive down to zero
pressure only over a finite temperature range near T_(c) as ξ diverges.
To demonstrate how this proposed phase diagram accurately describes
LaSb₂ we have included some simple benchmarks as described in the
caption to Fig. 11. We have somewhat arbitrarily interpolated between
the data points to draw the suggested boundaries between phases. As our
data are limited to temperatures above 1.75 K for pressures above
ambient, there are regions that are not covered by our data so that the
true T and P dependent behavior at pressures greater than ambient and
T < 1.75 K has not been explored. Thus, the phase boundaries may be
different from our interpolations in this region.

We conclude that at ambient pressure the anisotropic SC phase of LaSb₂
is fluctuation-limited, with fluctuations extending to T’s an order of
magnitude greater than T_(c). The small-carrier effective mass,
long-carrier mean-free path, and small-carrier density lead to large
in-plane ξ₀ reducing the phase stiffness of the SC state. The
application of pressure increases the Josephson coupling between the SC
planes, leading to a more traditional isotropic SC transition at the BCS
T_(c). Thus, our data suggest the existence of a quantum, T = 0, phase
transition between 2D and 3D superconducting phases with P. In addition,
LaSb₂ is a compelling candidate for investigating the pseudogap region
where SC pairs are thought to form at T’s above the phase ordering T, as
in the underdoped cuprates, in a BCS superconductor without the
complication of a competing ground state.

###### Acknowledgements.

We are grateful to D. A. Browne and I. Vekhter for discussions. J.F.D.,
D.P.Y., and J.Y.C. acknowledge support from the NSF through DMR0804376,
DMR0449022, and DMR0756281. P.W.A. acknowledges support from the DOE
through DE-FG02-07ER46420.

## References

* Gamble _et al._ [1970]F. R. Gamble, F. J. DiSalvo, R. A. Klemm, and T.
H. Geballe, Science **168**, 568 (1970). * Gamble _et al._ [1971]F. R.
Gamble, J. H. Osiecki, M. Cais, and R. Pisharod, Science **174**, 493
(1971). * Prober _et al._ [1977]D. E. Prober, M. R. Beasley, and R. E.
Schwall, Phys. Rev. B **15**, 5245 (1977). * Prober _et al._ [1980]D. E.
Prober, R. E. Schwall, and M. R. Beasley, Phys. Rev. B **21**, 2717
(1980). * Nagata _et al._ [1992]S. Nagata, T. Aochi, T. Abe, S. Ebisu,
T. Hagino, Y. Seki, and K. Tsutsumi, J. Phys. Chem. Solids **53**, 1259
(1992). * Jerome _et al._ [1971]D. Jerome, A. J. Grant, and A. D. Yoffe,
Solid State Commun. **9**, 2183 (1971). * Aoi _et al._ [1974]K. Aoi, R.
Merservey, and P. M. Tedrow, Phys. Rev. B **9**, 875 (1974). * Liu _et
al._ [1991]Y. Liu, K. A. McGreer, B. Nease, D. B. Haviland, G. Martinez,
J. W. Halley, and A. M. Goldman, Phys. Rev. Lett. **67**, 2068 (1991). *
Zhang _et al._ [2010]T. Zhang, P. Cheng, W. J. Li, Y. J. Sun, G. Wang,
X. G. Zhu, K. He, L. L. Wang, X. C. Ma, X. Chen, Y. Y. Wang, Y. Liu, H.
Q. Lin, J. F. Jia, and Q. K. Xue, Nat. Phys. **6**, 104 (2010). * Qin
_et al._ [2009]S. Y. Qin, J. Kim, Q. Niu, and C-K. Shih, Science
**324**, 1314 (2009). * Singleton and Mielke [2002]J. Singleton and C.
Mielke, Contemp. Phys. **43**, 63 (2002). * Bednorz and Muller [1986]J.
G. Bednorz and K. A. Muller, Z. Phys. B **64**, 189 (1986). * Nagamatsu
_et al._ [2001]J. Nagamatsu, N. Nakagawaam, T. Muranaka, Y. Zenitani,
and J. Akimitsu, Nature **410**, 63 (2001). * Kamihara _et al._ [2006]Y.
Kamihara, H. Hiramatsu, M. Hirano, R. Kawamura, H. Yanagi, T. Kamiya,
and H. Hosono, J. Am. Chem. Soc. **128**, 10012 (2006).

Figure 11: (Color) Phase diagram. Proposed temperature, T, and pressure
P, superconducting phase diagram. Symbols are onset of diamagnetism (*),
10

* [15] Y. Kamihara, T. Watanabe, M. Hirano, and H. Hosono, J. Am. Chem.
Soc. **130**, 3296 (2008). * [16] H. H. Wen, G. Mu, L. Fang, H. Yang,
and X. Y. Zhu, Europhys. Lett. **82**, 17009 (2008). * [17] Z. A. Ren,
W. Lu, J. Yang, W. Yi, X. L. Shen, Z. C. Li, G. C. Che, X. L. Dong, L.
L. Sun, F. Zhou, and Z. X. Zhao, Chin. Phys. Lett. **25**, 2215
(2008). * [18] V. J. Emery and S. A. Kivelson, Nature **374**, 434
(1995). * [19] J. Corson, R. Mallozzi, J. Orenstein, J. N. Eckstein, and
I. Bozovic, Nature **398**, 221 (1999). * [20] A. G. Loeser, Z.-X. Shen,
D. S. Dessau, D. S. Marshall, C. H. Park, P. Fournier, and A.
Kapitulnik, Science **273**, 325 (1996). * [21] H. Ding, T. Yokoya, J.
C. Campuzano, T. Takahashi, M. Randeria, M. R. Norman, T. Mochiku, K.
Kadowaki, and J. Giapintzakis, Nature **382**, 51 (1996). * [22] Ch.
Renner, B. Revaz, J. Y. Genoud, K. Kadowaki, and O. Fischer, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **80**, 149 (1998). * [23] S. L. Bud’ko, P. C. Canfield, C. H.
Mielke, and A. H. Lacerda, Phys. Rev. B **57**, 13624 (1998). * [24] R.
G. Goodrich, D. Browne, R. Kurtz, R. Young, J. F. DiTusa, P. W. Adams,
and D. Hall, Phys. Rev. B **69**, 125114 (2004). * [25] LaSb₂ does not
appear to support charge density wave order, see J. F. DiTusa, V.
Guritanu, S. Guo, D. P. Young, P. W. Adams, R. G. Goodrich, J. Y. Chan,
and D. van der Marel, J. Phys. Conf. Ser. **273**, 012151 (2011). * [26]
D. P. Young, R. G. Goodrich, J. F. DiTusa, S. Guo, P. W. Adams, J. Y.
Chan, and D. Hall, Appl. Phys. Lett. **82**, 3713 (2003). * [27] A. I.
Acatrinei, D. Browne, Y. B. Losovyi, D. P. Young, M. Moldovan, J. Y.
Chan, P. T. Sprunger, and R. L. Kurtz, J. Phys. Condens. Matter **15**,
L511 (2003). * [28] See, e.g., S. Yonezawa and Y. Maeno, Phys. Rev. B
**72**, 180504R (2005). * [29] N. Sato, T. Kinokiri, T. Komatsubara, and
H. Harima, Phys. Rev. B **59**, 4714 (1999). * [30] S. Guo, D. P. Young,
R. T. Macaluso, D. A. Browne, N. L. Henderson, J. Y. Chan, L. L. Henry,
and J. F. DiTusa, Phys. Rev. B **81**, 144423 (2010). * [31] P. Szabo,
P. Samuely, J. Kacmarcik, A. G. M. Jansen, A. Briggs, A. Lafond, and A.
Meerschaut, Phys. Rev. Lett. **86**, 5990 (2001). * [32] See, e.g., M.
Tinkham, in _Introduction to Superconductivity_ (Kreiger, Malabar,
Florida, 1975). * [33] W. E. Lawrence and S. Doniach, in _Proceeding of
12^(th) International Conference on Low Temperature Physics_, edited by
E. Kanda (Academic, Kyoto, 1971). * [34] C. S. L. Chun, G. G. Zheng, J.
L. Vicent, and I. K. Schuller, Phys. Rev. B **29**, 4915 (1984). * [35]
I. Banerjee, Q. S. Yang, C. M. Falco, and I. K. Schuller, Phys. Rev. B
**28**, 5037 (1983). * [36] R. V. Coleman, G. K. Eiserman, S. J.
Hillenius, A. T. Mitchell, and J. L. Vicent, Phys. Rev. B **27**, 125
(1983).
