# Normal state resistivity, upper critical field, and Hall effect

in superconducting perovskite MgCNi3

S. Y. Li, R. Fan, X. H. Chen,1 C. H. Wang, W. Q. Mo, K. Q. Ruan, Y. M.
Xiong, X. G. Luo, H. T. Zhang, L. Li, Z. Sun, and L. Z. Cao

Structural Research Laboratory and Department of Physics, University of
Science and Technology of China, Hefei, Anhui 230026, People’s Republic
of China

Footnote 1: Electronic address: Department of Physics, University of
Science and Technology of China, Hefei, Anhui 230026, People’s Republic
of China

Footnote 2: Electronic address: Department of Physics, University of
Science and Technology of China, Hefei, Anhui 230026, People’s Republic
of China

Received 5 June 2001; published 29 August 2001

###### Abstract

The normal state resistivity, upper critical field H_(c2) and Hall
coefficient R_(H) in superconducting perovskite MgCNi3 (T_(c) 8 K) have
been studied. Above 70 K, ρ(T) fits well curve predicted by
Bloch-Gruneisen theory consistently with electron-phonon scattering.
H_(c2)(0) was estimated to be about 15.0 T within the weak-coupling BCS
theory, and the superconducting coherence length ξ(0) is approximately
47 A. R_(H) of MgCNi3 is negative for the whole temperature range which
definitely indicates that the carrier in MgCNi3 is electron type. R_(H)
is temperature independent between T_(c) and ∼140 K. Above ∼140 K, the
magnitude of R_(H) decreases as temperature rises. At T=100 K, the
carrier density is 1.0×10²²/cm³, which is comparable with that in
perovskite (Ba,K)BiO3, and less than that of the metallic binary MgB2.

pacs: 74.70.Ad, 74.60.Ec, 74.25.Fy + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL
REVIEW B, VOLUME 64, 132505

_Introduction._ The recent discovery of superconductivity in the simple
intermetallic compound MgB2 (Ref. 1) has attracted great attention
because of its relatively high transition temperature (T_(c) = 39 K) and
the highly promising potential application. It suggests that
intermetallic compounds with simple structure types are worth serious
reconsideration as sources of new superconducting materials. More
recently, the observation of superconductivity at 8 K in the perovskite
structure intermetallic compound MgCNi3 (Ref. 2) indicates that MgB2
will not be the only one of its kind within the chemical paradigm for
new superconducting materials.

The variable stoichiometry compound MgC_(x)Ni3, for 0.5 <x<1.25, has
been reported and assigned to the perovskite structure type by analogy
in 1950’s [3, 4] but neither its crystal structure nor its physical
properties had been determined. By using powder neutron diffraction, He
_et al._[2] has found that the superconducting phase in nominal
composition MgC1.25Ni3 is MgC0.96Ni3 with the classical cubic perovskite
structure, space group Pm-3m. They also determined the electron-phonon
coupling constant λ_(ph)^(∼)0.77 by specific heat measurements. Although
this value of λ_(ph) is in the range of conventional phonon, more
properties of both normal state and superconducting state need to be
clarified to determine the microscopic mechanism of superconductivity in
this compound. A complete structural and electronic equivalence of the
superconducting oxide perovskites such as (Ba,K)BiO3 (BKBO) (Ref. 5) and
intermetallic perovskite superconductor MgCNi3 has been considered [2].
For the oxide perovskites, an important characteristic of the
superconductivity is that the electronic states at the Fermi energy
involve holes in the oxygen electronic orbitals. Preliminary band
structure calculations have shown that the electron states at the Fermi
surface of MgCNi3 are dominated by the 3d orbitals of Ni [6], so the
conduction may also involve holes in Ni d states. Although it is
expected that the carriers should be holes as monovalent potassium
replaces divalent barium in BKBO, the Hall coefficient measurement [7]
on BKBO thin films indicates that the charge carriers are electrons.
Therefore the measurement of the Hall effect in MgCNi3 should be very
interesting.

In this paper, we report the study of the normal state resistivity and
the measurements of the upper critical field H_(c2) and Hall coefficient
R_(H) for superconducting perovskite MgCNi3. It is found that at high
temperature (above 70 K) ρ(T) can be fitted well by Bloch-Gruneisen
theory. An H_(c2)-T phase diagram was obtained. The sign and temperature
dependence of R_(H) were determined by Hall effect measurement, which
definitely indicates that the carrier in MgCNi3 is electron-type.

_Experiment_. To obtain perfectly stoichiometric composition MgCNi3 with
highest T_(c) , excess carbon is required [2]. Due to the volatility of
Mg during the synthesis of this compound, excess Mg is needed. In this
study, a sample with nominal formula Mg1.2C1.4Ni3 was prepared. Starting
materials were bright Mg flakes, fine powders of Ni, and the powders of
amorphous carbon with high purity. Starting materials were mixed, ground
for a few minutes, and pressed into a pellet. The pellet was loaded in a
Ta foil, which was in turn sealed in a stainless steel reactor. The
above operations were carried out in a glove box with an Ar environment,
in which the content of oxygen and water is less than a few ppm. The
reactor was fired in a tube furnace under high-pure Ar atmosphere for
half an hour at 600 ^(∘)C, followed by an hour at 900 ^(∘)C. After
cooling, the sample was reground, pressed into a pellet, and sintered
for another one hour at 900 ^(∘)C under the same environment. The
resulting sample was dense with a length of 7 mm and a width of 2 mm.
The structure was characterized by powder x-ray diffraction (XRD)
analysis using Rigaku D/max-γA x-ray diffractometer with graphite
monochromatized Cu Kα radiation (λ = 1.5406 A). The data were collected
over 2 θ range from 15^(∘) to 75^(∘) with a 0.02^(∘) step.

In order to obtain a good Hall voltage signal, the sample was
mechanically polished until it was very thin (360 μm). The longitudinal
and Hall voltages were measured by using the standard dc 6-probe method.
The magnetic field was applied perpendicular to the sample surface by
using a superconducting magnet system (Oxford Instruments) and the ap
plied current is 15 mA. The Hall voltage was extracted from the
antisymmetric parts of the transverse voltages measured under opposite
directions to remove the longitudinal component due to the misalignment
of the Hall voltage pads. The Hall voltage was found to be linear in the
magnetic field.

_Results and Disscussion._ Figure 1 shows the temperature dependence of
resistivity under zero field and the XRD pattern (inset) for the sample
with nominal composition Mg1.2C1.4Ni3. The XRD pattern indicates that
the sample is nearly single phase. By the least-square fitting to the
positions of 7 Bragg reflection peaks between 2 _th_ values of 15deg and
75deg, the cubic cell parameter a = 3.81154(5) A is obtained, being
consistent with previous reports.2 The resistive superconducting
transition is very sharp. The midpoint of the resistive transition is
8.0 K, the 90-10

In order to investigate to what extent the resistive behavior is
consistent with electron-phonon scattering mechanism, we fit the
resistivity data with an explicit form of the Bloch-Gruneisen expression
which is valid in the case of an Einstein phonon distribution
ϵ = k_(B)Θ_(E) (Ref. 11) as in Ref. 9:

ρ⁻¹ = ρ_(p)⁻¹ + (ρ₀ + ρ_(ph))⁻¹,

$$\rho_{ph} = \rho_{i}{\rm coth}(\Theta_{E}/2T)[ 1 + (2/3){\rm sinh}^{2}(\Theta_{E}/2T)]^{-1}.$$

ρ₀ and ρ_(p) are, respectively, a residual and a parallel resistivity.
r1 is a constant. It is found that between 70 and 300 K _r_(_T_) fits
well by the Bloch-Gruneisen expression. The solid line in Fig. 2
represents the result of the best fit to the experimental data. The best
fit result gives Θ_(E) = 206(1) K, ρ₀ = 202(1) _m_U cm, ρ_(p) = 574(1)
_m_U cm, and ρ_(t) = 177(1) _m_U cm. The Einstein temperature Θ_(E) is
comparable with that of BKBO.9 Below 70 K, the fitting is not well and
gives very low Θ_(E). We speculated that the Einstein phonon
distribution is not proper and continuous phonon spectra, such as Debye
spectrum, should be adopted at low temperature. We simply fit the low
temperature resistivity data using a power law, r = r0 + a _T_*. The fit
result gives r0 = 120.7(1) _m_U cm, n = 1.46(1). The fit curve is also
shown as an unbroken line in Fig. 2.

Figure 3 shows the _r_(_T_) curves under magnetic fields up to 14 T. The
resistive superconducting transition shifts to low temperature with
increase of the magnetic field. The onset temperature decreases and the
broadening of the supercon

Figure 2: The temperature dependence of normal state resistivity for
MgCNi3 sample. The solid lines are fits of _r_(_T_) to Bloch-Grüneisen
expression and power law, respectively.

Figure 1: The temperature dependence of resistivity for MgCNi3 sample.
Inset: the XRD pattern.

ducting transition is almost absent with the increasing magnetic field.
This result is in contrast to the high-T_(c) cuprate superconductors and
similar to A15 intermetallic compounds such as Nb₃Sn. Figure 4 shows the
H_(c2)-T phase diagram obtained from the ρ vs T curves at different
fields. Here T_(c) is defined as the intersection of the linear
extrapolation of the most rapidly changing part of ρ(T) and that of the
normal state resistivity, as shown in the upper inset of Fig. 4. The
lower inset of Fig. 4 is the magnetic field dependence of the resistance
of the sample at 2.3 K. Defining H_(c2) as the intersection of the
linear extrapolation of the most rapidly changing part of ρ(H) and that
of the normal state resistivity, one can get H_(c2)(2.3K) = 12.5 T,
which is in good agreement with the result from temperature dependence
ρ(T). Within the weak-coupling BCS theory, H_(c2)(T = 0) can be
estimated using the Werthamer-Halfand-Hohenberg (WHH) formula,[12]

μ₀H_(c2) = −0.693(dH_(c2)/dT)_(T = T_(c))T_(c)

which leads to a μ₀H_(c2) value of 15.0 T. Meanwhile the Pauli-limiting
field

μ₀H^(Pauli) = 1.24K_(B)T_(c)/μ_(B)

expected within the same weak-coupling BCS theory[13] is also 15.0 T for
T_(c) = 8.12 K, inferred from Fig. 4. One can see that μ₀H^(WHH) and
μ₀H^(Pauli) agree perfectly with each other. The superconducting
coherence ξ(0) is estimated to be approximately 47 A, using the
Ginzburg-Landau formula for an isotropic three-dimensional
superconductor μ₀H_(c2) = Φ₀/2πξ²(0).

Figure 5 shows the Hall coefficient R_(H) from room temperature down to
T_(c) under 10 T. The two curves in the inset represent the Hall voltage
measured at 100 K for opposite magnetic fields up to 10 T. Clearly, the
field dependent Hall voltage is symmetric and linear. The R_(H) is
negative for the whole temperature range. We found that R_(H) is
essentially temperature independent between T_(c) and  ∼ 140 K, at least
within our experimental accuracy. Above  ∼ 140 K, the magnitude of R_(H)
decreases as temperature increases. It is found that
R_(H)(140 K)/R_(H)(295 K) is about 1.3. At T = 100 K, R_(H) =
−6.1 × 10⁻¹⁰ m³/C, and the calculated carrier density is 1.0 × 10²²/cm³.
The main feature of the Hall effect is the negative R_(H). It definitely
indicates that the carrier in MgCNi₃ is electron type, which is strongly
supported by the negative thermoelectrical power observed from room
temperature to 10 K.[14] The carrier density is comparable with that of
BKBO,[7] and less than that of metallic binary MgB₂ (Ref. [15]) and
larger than that in copper oxide superconductors.[16] Another feature of
the Hall coefficient is the fact that it depends on temperature. For
conventional isotropic metal with ordinary electron-phonon scattering
mechanism, the Hall coefficient is expected to be temperature
independent. We note that R_(H) temperature behavior of MgCNi₃ is very
similar to that of Ba_(1 − x)K_(x)BiO₃ single crystal.[9] A good example
of temperature dependent R_(H) is copper based superconducting oxides,
in which R_(H)(T) is ex

Figure 4: Upper critical field H_(c2) as a function of temperature for
MgCNi₃. The upper inset shows the temperature dependence of sample
resistivity under zero magnetic field. The lower inset shows the
magnetic field dependence of resistance at T = 2.3 K.

Figure 3: The ρ(T) curves under magnetic fields up to 14 T for MgCNi₃.

plained by exotic magnetic excitation.[17] Preliminary band structure
calculations have shown that the electron states at the Fermi surface of
MgCNi₃ are dominated by the 3d orbitals of Ni.[6] The itinerant
electrons arise from the partial filling of the nickel d states, which
generally leads to ferromagnetism as is the case in metallic. The
temperature dependence of R_(H) may also be ascribed to magnetic
excitations as copper based superconducting oxides. However,
Ba_(1 − x)K_(x)BiO₃ has no magnetic ion and manifests similar
temperature dependence of R_(H) as MgCNi₃, so the temperature behavior
of R_(H) remains an open question.

_Conclusion._ In summary, we have measured the temperature dependence of
resistivity, upper critical field and Hall effect for superconducting
perovskite MgCNi₃. Above 70 K, the normal state ρ(T) behavior follows
Bloch-Gruneisen theory consistently with electron-phonon scattering,
being similar to that of the three-dimensional BKBO with the same
structure. From H_(c2)-T phase diagram, H_(c2)(0) was estimated about
15.0 T within the weak-coupling BCS theory, the superconducting
coherence length ξ(0) was found to be approximately 47 A. Negative R_(H)
definitely suggests that the carrier is electron character, is the same
as that in BKBO and different from that in MgB₂. At T = 100 K, R_(H) = −
6.1 ×10⁻¹ m³/C, and the calculated carrier density is 1.0 ×10²²/cm³,
which is comparable with that in BKBO, and less than that of MgB₂ and
larger than that in copper oxide superconductors. R_(H) is temperature
independent between T_(c) and ∼ 140 K. Above ∼ 140 K, the magnitude of
R_(H) decreases as temperature increases. The temperature behavior of
R_(H) remains an open question.

This work was supported by the Natural Science Foundation of China and
by the Ministry of Science and Technology of China (Grant No.
NKBRSF-G19990646).

## References

* [1] J. Nagamatsu _et al._, Nature (London) **410**, 63 (2001). * [2]
T. He _et al._, Nature (London) **411**, 54 (2001). * [3] E. Scheil and
L. Huetter, Z. Metallkd. **44**, 387 (1953). * [4] L. Huetter and H.
Stadelmaier, Acta Metall. **6**, 367 (1958). * [5] For a recent review,
see A. Taraphder _et al._, Int. J. Mod. Phys. B **10**, 863 (1996). *
[6] M.A. Hayward _et al._, cond-mat/0104541 (unpublished). * [7] H. Sato
_et al._, Phys. Rev. B **48**, 6617 (1993). * [8] B.M. Moon _et al._,
Appl. Phys. Lett. **59**, 1905 (1991). * [9] M. Affronte, J. Marcus, and
C. Escribe-Filippini, Solid State Commun. **85**, 501 (1993). * [10] J.
M. Ziman, _Principles of the Theory of Solids_, 2nd ed. (Cambridge
University Press, Cambridge, 1972), p. 224. * [11] H.L. Engquist, Phys.
Rev. B **21**, 2067 (1980). * [12] N.R. Werthamer, E. Helfand, and P.C.
Hohenberg, Phys. Rev. **147**, 295 (1966). * [13] A.M. Clogston, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **9**, 266 (1962). * [14] S.Y. Li _et al._, cond-mat/0107352
(unpublished). * [15] W.N. Kang _et al._, cond-mat/0102313
(unpublished). * [16] J.M. Harris, Y.F. Yan, and N.P. Ong, Phys. Rev. B
**46**, 14 293 (1992), and references therein. * [17] P.W. Anderson,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **67**, 2092 (1991).

Figure 5: Temperature dependence of Hall coefficient measured under 10 T
for MgCNi₃. The two lines in the inset represent the Hall voltage
measured at 100 K for opposite two directions of the applied field up to
10 T.
