# Type-I superconductivity in YbSb₂ single crystals

Liang L. Zhao, Stefan Lausberg, H. Kim, M. A. Tanatar, Manuel Brando, R.
Prozorov, and E. Morosan

Department of Physics & Astronomy, Rice University, Houston, Texas
77005, USA Max Planck Institute for Chemical Physics of Solids, 01187
Dresden, Germany

Ames Laboratory and Department of Physics and Astronomy, Iowa State
University, Ames, Iowa 50011, USA

21 February 201223 April 201225 June 20121 February 201223 April 201223
April 201223 June 2012

###### Abstract

We present evidence of type-I superconductivity in YbSb₂ single crystals
from dc and ac magnetization, heat capacity, and resistivity
measurements. The critical temperature and critical field are determined
to be T_(c) ≈ 1.3 K and H_(c) ≈ 55 Oe. A small Ginzburg-Landau parameter
κ = 0.05, together with typical magnetization isotherms of type-I
superconductors, small critical field values, a strong differential
paramagnetic effect signal, and a field-induced change from second- to
first-order phase transition, confirms the type-I nature of the
superconductivity in YbSb₂. A possible second superconducting state is
observed in the radio-frequency susceptibility measurements, with
T_(c)⁽²⁾ ≈ 0.41 K and H_(c)⁽²⁾ ≈ 430 Oe.

2012 10.1103/PhysRevB.85.214526 2012 10.1103/PhysRevB.85.214526 21
February 201223 April 201223 April 201223 April 201223 April 2 the
in-plane direction, and resistivity data were taken during cooling.

The in-plane magnetic penetration depth Δλ(T) was determined using a
self-resonating tunnel-diode oscillator (TDR),[13] operating at 16 MHz
with an amplitude of $H_{\rm ac}\approx 10$ mOe, with temperatures down
to 50 mK, and in static magnetic fields up to $H_{\rm dc}=400$ Oe. The
sample was mounted on a sapphire rod with the crystal plate
perpendicular to both $H_{\rm ac}$ and $H_{\rm dc}$. Placing the sample
into the inductor causes the shift of the resonant frequency
Δf(T) = −G4π χ(T), where G is a calibration constant determined by
physically pulling the sample out of the coil. With the characteristic
sample size R, Δλ can be obtained from 4π χ = (λ/R)tanh (R/λ) − 1.[14,
15]

## III Results and Discussion

The powder x-ray diffraction pattern of YbSb₂ is shown in Fig. 1. The
pattern was refined using a ZrSi₂-type orthorhombic structure with space
group Cmcm and lattice parameters a = 4.554 A, b = 16.715 A, and
c = 4.267 A, in good agreement with the previously reported values.[16]
A small amount of remnant Sb flux (∼5

Figure 2 shows the temperature-dependent dc magnetic susceptibility χ of
YbSb₂, measured in a field H parallel to the crystal plate for H = 10
and 20 Oe. The demagnetizing effect has been taken into account by
calculating $\chi=\chi_{\rm measured}/(1-M_{\rm J}\chi_{\rm measured})$,
where $\chi_{\rm measured}=M/H$ is the ratio of the measured
magnetization M and the applied magnetic field H. The demagnetization
factor N_(d) is estimated to be 0.07 if we approximate the shape of the
platelike crystal as an ellipsoid.[12] For both zero-field-cooled (ZFC,
solid lines) and field-cooled (FC, dashed lines) data, the
low-temperature susceptibility shows a clear Meissner signal at
temperatures below T_(c) = 1.25 K for H = 10 Oe. The superconducting
volume fraction estimated from the ZFC data at this field value is very
close to 100

The ac susceptibility χ^(′) of YbSb₂ as a function of temperature is
shown in Fig. 4. As the field increases from H = 0 to

Figure 1: (Color online) Powder XRD pattern of YbSb₂ (black line), with
peak positions (vertical marks) calculated based on space group Cmcm and
lattice parameters a = 4.554 Å, b = 16.715 Å, and c = 4.267 Å. A small
amount of residual Sb flux is marked by a blue asterisk.

Figure 3: (Color online) (a) Isothermal magnetization and (b) full M(H)
loops of YbSb₂ for T = 0.5 K (squares) and 1 K (triangles) in the H∥
plate. Solid and open symbols correspond to data before (top axis) and
after (bottom axis) the demagnetization correction, respectively (see
text).

Figure 2: (Color online) Temperature-dependent susceptibility of YbSb₂,
measured in a dc field parallel to the crystal plate. The ZFC and FC
data are plotted as solid and dashed lines, respectively.

55 Oe, the onset temperature of the Meissner signal drops from 1.41 to
0.14 K. In a H = 60 Oe field, the superconductivity is further
suppressed and cannot be detected down to 0.06 K. Similarly, a
suppression of H_(c) with T from 56.3 Oe (T = 0.06 K) to 2.3 Oe
(T = 1.28 K) is illustrated by the χ^(′)(H) data in Fig. 5. The onset
critical temperature T_(c) and critical field H_(c) values from ac
susceptibility measurements are summarized in an H-T phase diagram in
Fig. 10 and will be discussed later. A noteworthy feature of the
χ^(′)(T) and χ^(′)(H) curves is the positive peak in the vicinity of the
superconducting transition for H > 0, known as the differential
paramagnetic effect in superconductors.[20] The DPE signal originates
from the positive ∂M/∂H values at temperatures right below H_(c) and can
be observed in either type-I or type-II superconductors. Nevertheless,
since the height of the DPE peak in type-II superconductors cannot
exceed the absolute value of the diamagnetic susceptibility,[4] the
observed large DPE signal (Figs. 4 and 5) clearly points to type-I
superconductivity in YbSb₂.

The field dependence of the superconducting transition of YbSb₂ is
further confirmed by heat capacity measurements in fields up to H = 90
kOe. For clarity, a subset of these data are shown in Fig. 6. In the
H = 0 curve, a clear jump in the heat capacity confirms the bulk
superconductivity. The transition temperature T_(c), determined at the
midpoint of this jump, is close to 1.32 K and agrees well with the
previous report.[7] As H increases, T_(c) monotonically decreases and
drops below 0.4 K (the minimum available temperature for these
measurements) at H = 60 Oe. The peak at the transition also becomes
sharper and higher for H = 10 Oe, compared to that for H = 0, indicating
a change from second- to first-order phase transition, commonly seen in
type-I superconductors. As the field is further increased, a
nonmonotonic change of the electronic and phonon specific heat
coefficients γ and β is revealed by the C_(p)/T vs T² plots (Fig. 6,
left inset). While this field dependence remains to be understood, it
makes it difficult to determine the electronic specific heat jump
ΔC_(el) = C_(el, s) − C_(el, n) at T_(c). An additional difficulty in
estimating ΔC_(el) is a possible second superconducting transition at
lower temperatures, which will be discussed below. We therefore use the
H = 0C_(p)/T vs T² data (black line, Fig. 6, left inset) to estimate γ
and β from the linear fit. This gives γ ≈ 3.18 mJ mol⁻¹ K⁻² and β ≈ 0.90
mJ mol⁻¹ K⁻⁴. After subtracting the phonon contribution ρ_(ph) = βT³,
the jump in the specific heat at the superconducting transition is
estimated to be ΔC_(el)/γ T_(c) ≈ 0.85 (Fig. 6, right inset), smaller
than the BCS value of 1.43. As already mentioned, this could be due to a
second superconducting transition and the nonmonotonic field dependence
of γ and β, as illustrated by a subset of C_(p)/T (T²) curves shown in
the left inset in Fig. 6. The Debye temperature can also be estimated
using θ_(D) = (12π⁴N_(A)rk_(B)/5β)^(1/3), where r = 3 is the number of
atoms per formula unit. This yields θ_(D) ≈ 186 K.

The ac resistivity of YbSb₂, for H = 0 and i∥ plate, is shown in Fig. 7.
At high temperatures, a linear temperature dependence of ρ(T) is
evident, as expected for metals. As seen in the top inset, the
resistivity drops to zero at T_(c) = 1.25 K, with a residual resistivity
ρ₀(2K) = 0.53μΩ cm just above T_(c). The residual resistivity ratio,
calculated as RRR = ρ(300 K)/ρ(2 K), is around 186, indicative of a good
quality metal. At temperatures below 8 K and above T_(c), the
resistivity shows a quadratic dependence on temperature: ρ = ρ₀ + AT².

Figure 4: (Color online) Temperature-dependent ac susceptibility of
YbSb₂, measured in fields H up to 60 Oe.

Figure 5: (Color online) Field-dependent ac susceptibility of YbSb₂,
measured for various temperatures from 0.06 to 1.28 K.

Figure 6: (Color online) Temperature-dependent heat capacity of YbSb₂
for H = 0, 10, 20, 30, 40, 50, 60 Oe and 20, 60 kOe. The left inset
shows C_(p)/T vs T² for H = 0, 60 Oe, 20 kOe, and 60 kOe, showing a
field-dependent Sommerfeld coefficient γ. The right inset shows the
superconducting (squares) and normal (black line) electronic specific
heat for H = 0, plotted as C_(el)/T vs T. An entropy conservation
construct (red lines) is used to determine the jump in the electronic
specific heat at T_(c).

From a linear fit of Δρ = ρ − ρ₀ vs T², the coefficient A is determined
to be 0.0013 μΩ cm K⁻². The Kadowaki-Woods (KW) ratio A/γ² = 12.8a₀,
where a₀ = 10⁻⁵ μΩ cm mol² K² mJ⁻² is a nearly universal value observed
in strongly correlated electron systems.[21] This large KW ratio is
consistent with the analogous value previously reported[6] and could be
associated with electron-phonon scattering or enhanced electron
correlations.

Based on the resistivity and heat capacity data, several superconducting
parameters, such as the London penetration depth λ_(L), coherence length
ξ, Ginzburg-Landau parameter κ, and electron-phonon coupling constant
λ_(el − ph), can be estimated. With 4 formula units per unit cell volume
(V), the electron density n of YbSb₂ can be calculated as
n = 8/V = 2.483 × 10⁻² A⁻³, assuming the valence of Yb to be 2+ . The
Fermi wave vector k_(F) can be roughly estimated if we assume a
spherical Fermi surface, which gives
$k_{F}=(3n\pi^{2})^{\frac{1}{2}}=0.903$ A⁻¹. The Fermi wave vector
k_(F), together with the Sommerfeld coefficient γ = 3.18 mJ mol⁻¹
K⁻² = 6.56 × 10⁻⁵ J cm⁻³ K⁻², yields the effective electron mass
m^(*) = ℏ²k_(F)²/γ²mk_(B)² = 1.39m₀, where m₀ is the free-electron mass.
The London penetration depth λ_(L)(0) and coherence length ξ(0) can also
be derived as λ_(L)(0) = (m^(*)/μ₀nϵ²)^(1/2) = 40 nm and
ξ(0) = 0.18ℏ²k_(F)/k_(B)T_(c)m^(*) = 826 nm. It results that the GL
parameter $\kappa=\lambda_{L}(0)/\xi(0)=0.05\ll 1/\sqrt{2}$, confirming
the type-I superconductivity in YbSb₂. According to the McMillan
theory,[22] the electron-phonon coupling is given by

$$\lambda_{el-ph}=\frac{1.04+\mu^{*}\ln(\rho_{D}/1.45T_{c})}{(1-0.62\mu^{*})\ln( \rho_{D}/1.45T_{c})-1.04},$$

where the Coulomb pseudopotential μ^(*) is usually between 0.1 and 0.15.
Assuming μ^(*) = 0.13, the electron-phonon coupling is estimated to be
λ_(el − ph) ≈ 0.51, suggesting that YbSb₂ is a weakly coupled BCS
superconductor. Moreover, the λ_(el − ph) value confirms the effective
electron mass m^(*) as calculated using m^(*) = (1 + λ_(el − ph))m₀,
which gives m^(*) = 1.51m₀.

Figure 8 shows frequency Δf(T) ∼ χ(T) measured for a 0.7 × 0.5 × 0.3 mm³
sample. Data above T_(c) represent a combination of magnetic and
resistive responses in the normal state of YbSb₂. The skin depth at
T = 1.5 K was estimated to be δ ≈ 8.9 μm, which is much smaller than any
dimension of the sample. The skin depth δ was calculated with the
residual resistivity ρ₀ = 0.53 μΩ cm and an operating frequency of 16
MHz. A slight upturn before the superconducting transition can be
attributed to the response of some paramagnetic impurities. T_(c) was
determined as the temperature where Δf(T) deviates from the normal-state
behavior.

In the pure Meissner state (Fig. 8), for $H_{\rm dc}=0$, both ZFC and FC
curves coincide. Additionally, apart from the superconducting
transition, a small feature near 0.11 K was observed, as shown in the
inset. This may be attributed to a phase associated with extrinsic
magnetic impurities. In Fig. 9, the calculated superfluid density,
ρ = λ²(0)/λ²(T), is found to be consistent with a single-gap s-wave
pairing in YbSb₂, except for the impurity contribution which modifies
the curve at the lowest temperatures. In the presence of magnetic
impurities with magnetic permeability μ(T), the actual measured
penetration depth is renormalized as $\lambda_{m}=\sqrt{\mu(T)}\lambda$,
so that the experimentally constructed superfluid density is

Figure 8: (Color online) Shift of resonant frequency Δf = −G4π χ(T),
measured in fields up to 400 Oe. The ZFC and FC data are shown as solid
and dashed lines, respectively; the inset shows a zoomed-in view of the
low-temperature data for H = 0, with ZFC and FC data shown as solid and
open symbols.

Figure 7: (Color online) The ac resistivity of YbSb₂ for H = 0 and i∥
plate. The top inset shows a zoomed-in view of the low-temperature
resistivity around T_(c); the bottom inset shows Δρ = ρ − ρ₀ vs T²
(symbols), together with a linear fit (solid line).

Figure 9: (Color online) Superfluid density calculated as
ρ = λ²(0)/λ²(T). The solid red line shows a fit to the typical behavior
of an s-wave BCS superconductor.

given by ρ_(m) = λ²(0)/[μ(T)λ²(T)]. For paramagnetic impurities behaving
following the Curie law, this renormalization leads to a downward trend
of ρ_(m) in the region where real superfluid density is already flat. At
higher temperatures the contribution of paramagnetic impurities rapidly
vanishes since μ = 1 + 4π χ = 1 + C/T, where C is the Curie constant.

In nonzero magnetic field, ZFC-FC Δf curves (Fig. 8) show hysteresis up
to H = 50 Oe. Interestingly, the FC data indicate stronger repulsion
below an intermediate temperature, marked with solid triangles, which
systematically decreases with increasing H. This crossover no longer
exists above 40 Oe, and ZFC data recover stronger repulsion. Above 70
Oe, which is greater than H_(c) determined by various thermodynamic
measurements, data still show a diamagnetic response without hysteresis,
which persists up to 400 Oe. It should also be noted that the ac
susceptibility for H = 60 Oe (Fig. 4) remains slightly diamagnetic after
the DPE peak vanishes, consistent with the results displayed in Fig. 8.
The origin of the diamagnetism above the bulk H_(c) is not clear;
however, the H-T phase diagram shown in Fig. 10 is reminiscent of a
field-dependent pairing state with multiple order parameters in the
heavy-fermion superconductor PrOs₄Sb₁₂.[23, 24] More detailed
measurements are required to fully understand the rich physics of this
unconventional behavior and to clarify whether this could be bulk or
surface superconductivity.

The relationship between T_(c) and H_(c) is summarized in the H-T phase
diagram (Fig. 10). The H_(c) values determined from χ^(′)(T) (squares),
χ^(′)(H) (triangles), C_(p) (diamonds), and Δf (circles) below ∼80 Oe
can be fit to the expected BCS temperature dependence
H_(c)(T) = H_(c)(0)[1 − (T/T_(c))²] (solid line, Fig. 10 inset). This
gives H_(c)(0) = 55 Oe and T_(c) = 1.30 K. The possible new
superconducting state inferred from the rf magnetization (Fig. 8) can
also be described with a similar equation,
H_(c)⁽²⁾(T) = H_(c)⁽²⁾(0)[1 − (T/T_(c)⁽²⁾)²] (dashed line, Fig. 10),
which gives H_(c)⁽²⁾(0) = 430 Oe and T_(c)⁽²⁾ = 0.41 K.

The superconducting and thermodynamic parameters of YbSb₂ are summarized
in Table 1. Several traits of type-I superconductors have been observed
in this compound, including a small GL parameter κ = 0.05, a typical
shape of the dc M(H) isotherms (Fig. 2), a strong DPE signal in the ac
magnetization (Fig. 5), small critical field values, and a change from
second- to first-order phase transition induced by magnetic field and
visible in specific heat data (Fig. 6). All these observations provide
proof of the type-I superconductivity in YbSb₂. In addition, a possible
second superconducting state at lower temperatures is observed in rf
magnetization (Fig. 8), which reveals unconventional behavior, as of yet
not fully understood. This calls for more experiments to elucidate the
underlying physics in YbSb₂.

## Acknowledgments

Work at Rice University was supported by AFOSR MURI. Work at Ames was
supported by the US Department of Energy, Office of Basic Energy
Sciences, Division of Materials Sciences and Engineering, under Contract
No. DE-AC02-07CH11358. The authors thank Yuri Prots and Juri Grin for
help with the structural characterization.

## References

* [1] M. Kobayashi and I. Tsujikawa, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **50**, 3245
(1981). * [2] T. T. M. Palstra, G. Lu, A. A. Menovsky, G. J.
Nieuwenhuys, P. H. Kes, and J. A. Mydosh, Phys. Rev. B **34**, 4566
(1986). * [3] U. Gottlieb, J. C. Lasjaunias, J. L. Tholence, O. Laborde,
O. Thomas, and R. Madar, Phys. Rev. B **45**, 4803 (1992). * [4] S.
Yonezawa and Y. Maeno, Phys. Rev. B **72**, 180504(R) (2005). * [5]

  Parameter                               Value
  ------------------------------- -------------
  T_(c) (K)                          1.30 ± 0.2
  H_(c)(0) (Oe)                          55 ± 2
  γ (mJ mol⁻¹ K⁻²)                         3.18
  β (mJ mol⁻¹ K⁻⁴)                         0.90
  θ_(D) (K)                                 186
  ΔC_(el)/γT_(c)                           0.85
  RRR                                       186
  A (μΩ cm K⁻²)                          0.0013
  A/γ² (10⁻⁵μΩ cm mol² K² mJ⁻²)            12.8
  k_(F) (Å⁻¹)                             0.903
  m^(*) (m₀)                        1.45 ± 0.06
  λ_(L)(0) (nm)                              40
  ξ(0) (nm)                                 826
  κ                                        0.05
  λ_(el − ph)                              0.51
  T⁽²⁾ (K)                                 0.41
  H_(c)⁽²⁾(0) (Oe)                          430

Table 1: Measured and calculated superconducting and thermodynamic
parameters of YbSb₂.

Figure 10: (Color online) H-T phase diagram of YbSb₂. Points determined
from χ^(′)(T), χ^(′)(H), C_(p)(T), and Δf(T) data are marked by black
squares, red triangles, blue diamonds, and green circles. The
superconductive phase boundary determined from thermodynamic data is
illustrated by a purple line. The possible new superconducting state
observed in the rf magnetization measurement is marked with a dashed
line; the inset shows a zoomed-in view of the data points from
thermodynamic measurements.

* (5) V. K. Anand, A. D. Hillier, D. T. Adroja, A. M. Strydom, H.
Michor, K. A. McEwen, and B. D. Rainford, Phys. Rev. B **83**, 064522
(2011). * (6) E. Svanidze and E. Morosan, Phys. Rev. B **85**, 174514
(2012). * (7) Y. Yamaguchi, S. Waki, and K. Mitsuoi, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn.
**56**, 419 (1987). * (8) N. Sato, T. Kinokiri, T. Komatsubara, and H.
Harima, Phys. Rev. B **59**, 4714 (1999). * (9) N. Shirakawa, S. Koiwai,
and Y. Uwatoko, High Pressure Conference of Japan, Vol. 41 (JST, Japan,
2000), p. 211 (unpublished). * (10) Y. Kohori, T. Kohara, N. Sato, and
T. Kinokiri, Phys. C **388-389**, 579 (2003). * (11) B. Hunter, Int.
Union Crystallogr. Comm. Powder Diffraction Newsl. **20**, 21 (1998). *
(12) J. A. Osborn, Phys. Rev. **67**, 351 (1945). * (13) C. T. V.
Degrift, Rev. Sci. Instrum. **46**, 599 (1975). * (14) R. Prozorov, R.
W. Giannetta, A. Carrington, and F. M. Araujo-Moreira, Phys. Rev. B
**62**, 115 (2000). * (15) R. Prozorov and R. W. Giannetta, Supercond.
Sci. Technol. **19**, R41 (2006). * (16) R. Wang, R. Bodnar, and H.
Steinfink, Inorg. Chem. **5**, 1468 (1966). * (17) C. S. Whitehead,
Proc. R. Soc. London, Ser. A **238**, 175 (1956). * (18) J. I. Budnick,
Phys. Rev. **119**, 1578 (1960). * (19) V. F. Kozhevnikov, M. J. Van
Bael, W. Vinckx, K. Temst, C. Van Haesendonck, and J. O. Indekeu, Phys.
Rev. B **72**, 174510 (2005). * (20) R. A. Hein and R. L. Falge Jr.,
Phys. Rev. **123**, 407 (1961). * (21) N. Tsujii, K. Yoshimura, and K.
Kosuge, J. Phys. Condens. Matter **15**, 1993 (2003). * (22) W.
McMillan, Phys. Rev. **167**, 331 (1968). * (23) T. Cichorek, A. C.
Mota, F. Steglich, N. A. Frederick, W. M. Yuhasz, and M. B. Maple, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **94**, 107002 (2005). * (24) M. Maple, Z. Henkie, W. Yuhasz,
P.-C. Ho, T. Yanagisawa, T. Sayles, N. Butch, J. Jeffries, and A.
Pietraszko, J. Magn. Magn. Mater. **310**, 182 (2007).
