Influence of Sr substitution on the structure, charge distribution, and
critical temperature of Y(Ba1-_x_Sr_)2Cu4O8 single crystals

J. Karpinski,^(1, #) S. M. Kazakov,¹ M. Angst,¹ A. Mironov,² M. Mali,³
and J. Roos³

¹Solid State Physics Laboratory, ETH 8093 Zurich, Switzerland

²Chemical Department, Moscow State University, Moscow, Russia

³Physik Institut, Universitat Zurich, 8057 Zurich, Switzerland

Received 29 January 2001; published 14 August 2001

###### Abstract

We have investigated the influence of substitution of Sr for Ba on the
structure, charge distribution, and T_(c) in the YBa2Cu4O8 (Y124)
compound. Bond valence sum and nuclear quadrupole resonance
investigations show that the substitution of Sr causes a redistribution
of charge in the structure. The number of holes located in plane copper
(Cu2) and apical oxygen (O1) increases, hence the number of holes in
chain copper (Cu1) and plane oxygen (O2 and O3) decreases. A
redistribution of holes from Cu1 to O1 and from O2 and O3 to Cu2 takes
place. The literature data for Y123 and the hydrostatic pressure effect
on both Y124 and Y123 compounds show that oxygen doping in Y123 and the
pressure effect in Y124 increase the hole number equally on copper and
oxygen. Therefore, although the number of holes on copper Cu2 in the
CuO2 planes increases with Sr doping in both Y124 and Y123, T_(c) does
not rise as much as expected from the amount of charge transferred to
Cu2, because of their distribution in the CuO2 planes.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.64.094518 PACS number(s): 74.72.Bk, 61.10.Nz

## I Introduction

The family of Y2BaCu4O2_(n + x) superconductors consists of three
compounds for n = 6, 7, and 8. The third member of the family (_n_ = 8)
YBa2Cu4O8 (Y124) contains a double CuO2 chain instead of a single chain
as in Y123.1 Figure 1 shows the structure of Y124 and Y123. The second
compound (_n_ = 7) Y2BaCu4O4_(14 + x) (Y247) contains alternating double
and single chains,2 which make its structure exceptional because the two
CuO2 superconducting planes are structurally nonequivalent. The Y124
compound is also unusual among all superconducting cuprates due to the
fact that the oxygen content is fixed to eight in the formula unit. This
is caused by the higher coordination number of oxygen in double chains
than in single chains. Each oxygen atom has three neighboring copper
atoms instead of two in Y123. Y124 is a stoichiometric, intrinsically
underdoped compound. Therefore it is possible to investigate
superconducting parameters as a function of substitutions without any
danger of an influence of oxygen nonhomogeneity. This is especially
important for investigations on small single crystals, where a
determination of the oxygen content is very difficult. As we have shown
in the past, differences in the oxygen content have strong influence on
such parameters like g or the irreversibility field _H_${}_{\rm irr}$.3
Our investigations of superconducting parameters performed on Y124
single crystals show a higher anisotropy than Y123, g = 12 for
unsubstituted crystals,4 in line with the underdoped nature of Y124.
Investigations on single crystals are crucial for the determination of
superconducting parameters g, penetration depth l, coherence length
x,_H_${}_{\rm irr}$ and the _H-T_ phase diagram. Powder samples usually
contain foreign phases, and influence of granularity effects on magnetic
properties is unavoidable.5 Due to the high anisotropy of
superconducting parameters it is very difficult to measure intrinsic
parameters of these compounds on such samples.

In the present work we investigate the influence of substitution of Sr
for Ba in the Y124 compound on the structure, charge distribution, and
critical temperature. The Sr atom (ionic radius r1 = 1.36 A) is smaller
than the Ba radius (_r_1 = 1.52 A),6 therefore one can expect an effect
of chemical pressure on the structure. Unfortunately, the situation is
more complex than expected. The first high-_T__(c) superconductor,
La2_(_(T − x))BaCuO4 exhibits a high positive pressure effect on
_T__(c).7 In fact, a partial substitution of Sr for Ba led to an
increase of _T__(c) from 28 to 36 K.8 Substitution of Sr for Ba in Y123
and Hg-based superconductors shows a negative effect on _T__(c),
although the pressure effect on _T__(c) is positive in both
compounds.9,10 This indicates that chemical pressure is not equivalent
to the application of mechanical pressure on the material. Pressure
causes a charge transfer from the chains to the planes.11,13 However,
also the hole distribution between Cu and O sites of CuO2 planes is
important for _T__(c), as suggested by several authors using nuclear
quadrupole resonance (NQR),12,13 near-edge x-ray-absorption fine
structure,14 as well as bond-valence sum (BVS) analysis.15 We will
discuss this below.

Y124 shows a very high positive pressure effect on _T__(c),_dT__(c)/_dp_
= 5 K/GPa.16 A comparison of the effects of chemical and mechanical
pressure on Y124 and Y123 is presented. Y124 is one of the few compounds
where Sr substitution increases _T__(c), although structural changes are
similar to those in Y123. Investigations of the substitution of Sr for
Ba in Y124 and Y247 have been performed in the past on polycrystalline
samples,17,18,19 which made investigation of intrinsic physical
parameters difficult. In our work structural investigations are
performed on single crystals, which are later used for investigation of
superconducting parameters g, l, x, x and _H_${}_{\rm irr}$,20 while NQR
was performed on polycrystalline samples because of the required larger
mass of the sample.

## II Experiment

### Crystal growth

For the growth of Y124 and Y124 Sr crystals we used a nonstoichiometric
flux technique, a BaO-CuO eutectic mixture has been used as a flux. The
total composition of the samples corresponds to a metal ratio Y:Ba:Cu
equal to 1:15:30. In the case of Sr-substituted crystals, a part of Ba
was substituted with Sr. Several Ba:Sr ratios were used: 15:1, 8:1, 5:1,
4:1, 3:1. As a precursor, we used mixtures of Y123 (99.9

Synthesis of polycrystalline Y124:Sr samples has been done at high
oxygen pressure. As a precursor we used a mixture of Y123:Sr (prepared
at P_(O₂) = 1 bar) and CuO (99.99

### Structural investigations

Several crystals with different Sr content from different crystal-growth
experiments were chosen for single-crystal x-ray analysis. The
description of the x-ray single-crystal experiments is given in Table 1.

Cell parameters for each crystal were obtained from one and the same set
of 23 reflections, the positions of which were determined using standard
SET4 procedure. _th_ and _hkl_ ranges for all experiments were the same.
Absorption correction was applied in each case according to the shape of
each crystal. The total number of reflections was about 5000. Some
reflections in each data set were excluded from refinement according to
the following criteria. Reflections, whose intensity were determined
with an attenuator (from 2 to 6 depending on a sample) were not used in
refinement. Profiles of all reflections in each set were visually
checked. Reflections that had only one component (either Kα1 or Kα2)
were eliminated from refinement too as well as reflections that had no
right profile (from 20 to 50 depending on the set). The last criteria
deals with the number of equivalents. If the number of equivalent
reflections were half (or lower) of the possible number of reflections,
reflection was rejected. The total number of eliminated reflections did
not exceed 10

The structures were refined by JANA2000 program package. [22] Starting
parameters were taken from Ref. 23. Each structure was refined with
isotropic atomic-displacement parameters; then Ba content was refined
for each case (Sr content was considered to be 1 − x, where x is Ba
occupancy) and finally simultaneous refinement of occupancies and
anisotropic displacement parameters was undertaken. Then the
compositions of the crystals were corrected, absorption corrections were
applied, and the refinements were repeated. If necessary this procedure
was repeated once more until changes in composition did not occur.

All cations in each structure were refined with anharmonic displacement
parameters up to the fourth harmonic and probability density functions
(PDF’s) were calculated. In all structures Y, Cu1, and Cu2 sites showed
large negative regions, and anharmonic refinement was rejected for these
atoms. For three structures, negative regions at Ba-site PDF maps had
negative values less than 1

The refined atomic parameters are given in Table 2; interatomic
distances, selected bond angles, and separation of some atoms from the
CuO₂ weighted plane are given in Table 3. The detailed description of
the structures will be given in a separate paper.

### Nuclear quadrupole resonance

The frequency ν_(Q) of a NQR signal depends on the principal components
V_(ii) of the electric-field gradient (EFG) tensor present at the
nuclear site of the atom. For the two naturally occurring nuclear
spin-$\frac{3}{2}$ copper isotopes ⁶³Cu and ⁶⁵Cu measured in our
experiment, ν_(Q) is given by the expression

$$\nu_{Q}{=}\frac{e\,Q\,V_{zz}}{2h}\,\sqrt{1+\frac{1}{3}\,\eta^{2}}.$$

Here, η is the asymmetry parameter defined as
η = (V_(xx) − V_(yy))/V_(zz), where |V_(zz)| ≈ |V_(yy)| ≈ |V_(xx)| and
eQ is the nuclear electric quadrupole moment.

The EFG tensor consists essentially of two contributions, one coming
from the charge distribution of the surrounding ions in the crystal
lattice (lattice contribution) and the other arising from the on-site
electron distribution in the incompletely filled electronic shell of the
Cu atom (valence contribution). Therefore, the EFG and hence ν_(Q) are
very sensitive to the variations in the oxygen coordination, Cu-O bond
length, and the electronic structure, and can thus deliver valuable
information about the microscopic effects of ion substitutions, doping,
lattice distortions, etc.

The NQR experiments were performed on the Cu nuclei in zero magnetic
field by using a standard pulsed spectrom eter and employing the
spin-echo technique. Scanning the spectrometer frequency in 100-kHz
steps, the complex-valued spin-echo signals were measured in quadrature
and afterwards integrated over time. By plotting the magnitude of the
echo integral versus frequency we obtained in a point-wise fashion the
NQR line.

## III Results and Discussion

### Determination of T_(ϵ)

The transition temperature of the crystals was determined by
superconducting quantum interference device magnetometry. The
magnetization was measured as a function of temperature in an applied
field of 1 Oe–both zero field and field cooled. Figure 2 shows
zero-field-cooled magnetization curves of single crystals (a) and powder
samples (b). The critical temperature T_(c) of Y124 samples with small
Sr content (x≈ 0.1) is lower than unsubstituted ones; samples with
higher Sr content (x≈ 0.2) have higher T_(c) than pure Y124. Both single
crystals and powder samples show such an effect. Possible explanation
can be the influence of disorder created by the substitution, which is
competitive to the charge-transfer effect and can decrease T_(c).[24]
However, for single crystals these variations are more pronounced.
Unsubstituted Y124 single crystal has an effective critical temperature
T_(c, eff)=77.7 K, which decreases by about 1.7 K after substitution of
12

Table 6: NQR frequencies and linewidth of plane and chain ⁶⁰Cu in pure
and Sr-substituted YBa₂Cu₂O₈ (Y124).

Puzniak, J. Hofer, V. Alyoshin, and A. Sin, Supercond. Sci. Technol.
**12**, R153 (1999). * [22] V. Petricek and M. Dusek, janays manual,
1998. * [23] J. Karpinski, E. Kaldis, S. Rusiecki, E. Jilek, P. Fischer,
P. Bordet, C. Chaillout, J. Chenovas, J. L. Hodeau, and M. Maresio, J.
Less-Common Met. **150**, 129 (1989). * [24] J. Attfield, A. Kharlanov,
and J. McAllister, Nature (London) **394**, 157 (1998). * [25] T. R. Lu
and Teng-Ming Chen, Physica C **276**, 75 (1997). * [26] F. Licci, A.
Gauzzi, M. Marezio, G. P. Radaelli, R. Masini, and C.
Chaillout-Bougerol, Phys. Rev. B **58**, 15 208 (1998). * [27] R. J.
Nelmes, J. S. Loveday, E. Kaldis, and J. Karpinski, Physica C **172**,
311 (1990). * [28] I. D. Brown and D. Altermatt, Acta Crystallogr.,
Sect. B: Struct. Sci. **B41**, 244 (1985). * [29] R. Cava, A. Hewat, E.
Hewat, B. Batlogg, M. Marezio, K. Rabe, J. Krajewski, W. Peck, and L.
Rupp, Physica C **165**, 419 (1990). * [30] M. Karppinen and H.
Yamauchi, Philos. Mag. B **79**, 343 (1999). * [31] I. D. Brown, J.
Solid State Chem. **90**, 155 (1991). * [32] M. Marezio, F. Licci, and
A. Gauzzi, Physica C **337**, 195 (2000). * [33] C. Meingast, J.
Karpinski, E. Jilek, and E. Kaldis, Physica C **209**, 591 (1993). *
[34] S. M. Kazakov _et al._ (unpublished).
