Anomalies of _T_c, resistivity, and thermoelectric power in the
overdoped region of La2-_xSrCu1-_yZn3O4

N. Kakinuma, Y. Ono, and Y. Koike

Department of Applied Physics, Graduate School of Engineering, Tohoku
University, Aoba-yama 08, Aoba-ku, Sendai 980-8579, Japan

11 March resistivity in the normal state usually exhibits a metallic
behavior, namely, dρ/dT>0. At x = 0.22 of nonsubstituted samples with y
= 0, however, the resistivity exhibits a minimum around 100 K and dρ/dT<
0 at low temperatures. As for Zn-substituted samples with y = 0.005 and
0.01, such anomalous behaviors are observed at x = 0.20− 0.21 and 0.185−
0.195, respectively. The value of x around which the anomaly occurs
decreases with increasing y.

Figure 2 shows the temperature dependence of the magnetic susceptibility
χ. The value of T_(c), defined as the temperature where the extrapolated
line of the steepest part of the χ vs T plot reaches the normal-state
value of χ, is shown in Fig. 3. The value of T_(c), defined as the
midpoint of the superconducting transition curve in the ρ vs T plot, is
also

Figure 3: Sr-concentration x dependence of T_(c), estimated from the
magnetic susceptibility (closed circles) and the electrical resistivity
(open circles) measurements, for La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)Cu_(1 − y)Zn_(y)O₄ with
(a) y = 0, (b) y = 0.005, (c) y = 0.01. From the resistivity
measurements, T_(c) is defined as the midpoint of the superconducting
transition curve. Bars indicate the temperatures where ρ drops to 90 and
10

Figure 2: Temperature dependence of the magnetic susceptibility χ,
measured in a magnetic field of 10 Oe during warm-up after field
cooling, for various x values in La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)Cu_(1 − y)Zn_(y)O₄ with
(a) y = 0, (b) y = 0.005, (c) y = 0.01.

shown in Fig. 3. A local minimum in T_(c) is observed at the composition
of x where the abovementioned anomaly of ρ occurs.

Figure 4 displays the temperature dependence of the thermoelectric power
S. Although the temperature dependence of S has not yet been understood
clearly for the high-T_(c) cuprates, it is empirically known that S at
290 K ($S_{290\,{\rm K}}$) decreases with increasing p universally for
the high-T_(c) cuprates.[14, 15] In fact, one can confirm that this
empirical law holds good for nonsubstituted samples with y = 0. That is,
$S_{290\,{\rm K}}$ decreases with increasing x, namely, with increasing
p. It is found that the value of S in the normal state decreases through
the Zn substitution, namely, with increasing y, though the reason has
not yet been settled. No anomalous behavior of S is observed for the
samples exhibiting the anomalous behaviors of ρ and T_(c), but it is
remarkable that values of S in the normal state of these samples are
almost the same. It may be said, at least, that the electronic states of
these samples are almost the same.

Figure 5 shows the powder x-ray diffraction profiles of the (110)THT and
(220)THT reflections at various temperatures. The suffix THT indicates
an index in the tetragonal high-temperature (THT) phase (the space
group: I4/_mmm_). For x = 0.22 and y = 0, it is found that the (110)THT
and (220)THT peaks do not split in the measured temperature region,
meaning that this sample is kept in the THT phase at temperatures
between 12 and 300 K. For x = 0.19 and y = 0.01, on the other hand, the
(220)THT peak is found to clearly split into two, meaning that this
sample undergoes a structural phase transition from the THT phase to the
orthomombic midtemperature (OMT) phase (the space group: _Bmab_) at a
temperature above 12 K. The THT-OMT transition temperature T_(d1) is
estimated from the temperature dependence of the full width at
half-maximum (FWHM) of the (110)THT and (220)THT peaks, as shown in Fig.
6. The value of T_(d1), defined as the temperature where the FWHM begins
to increase markedly with decreasing temperature, is estimated as 165 K
for x = 0.19 and y = 0.01, and the sample with x = 0.20 and y = 0.005 is
also found to undergo the THT-OMT transition at 120 K. These values of
T_(d1) are consistent with those of La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄ obtained from
the detailed study by Takagi _et al.[16]_ as shown in Fig. 7, because it
is known that the value of T_(d1) increases through the Zn
substitution.[17] In any case, what is important is that the

Figure 4: Temperature dependence of the thermoelectric power S for
various x values in La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)Cu_(1 − x)Zn_(y)O₄ with (a) y= 0,
(b) y = 0.005, (c) y = 0.01.

Figure 5: Powder x-ray diffraction profiles of the (110)THT and (220)THT
reflections due to Cu_(x1)T radiation at various temperatures for
La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)Cu_(1 − x)Zn_(y)O₄ with [x = 0.22 and y= 0], [x = 0.20
and y = 0.005], and [x = 0.19 and y = 0.01].

sample with x = 0.22 and y = 0 exhibiting the anomalous behaviors is
kept in the THT phase in the measured temperature region, while the
samples with [_x_ = 0.20 and y = 0.005] and [_x_ = 0.19 and y = 0.01]
exhibiting the anomalous behaviors are in the OMT phase at low
temperatures. This means that the anomalous behaviors of r and T_(c) are
independent of the THT-OMT structural phase transition.

## IV Discussion

First, we discuss the experimental results of the resistivity and the
thermoelectric power. In order to highlight the anomalous behaviors,
_S_/_rT_ vs T is plotted in Fig. 8. It is noteworthy that _S_/_rT_ tends
to increase with decreasing temperature on a universal line independent
of x, while values of _S_/_rT_ of the samples exhibiting anomalous
behaviors deviate from the universal line and are lower than the line.
It is well known that the thermoelectric power in the Fermi-liquid
region is given by the Mott formula,[18]

$$S = - \frac{\pi^{2}k_{B}^{2}T}{3\left|e\right|}\left(\frac{d\ln\sigma(\bm{\epsilon})}{d\bm{\epsilon}}\right)_{\bm{\epsilon} = \mu},$$

where k_(B), e, m, and _s_(_e_) are the Boltzmann constant, the electric
charge, the chemical potential, and the contribution of electrons with
energy e to the electrical conductivity, respectively. Assuming that
_s_(_m_) = 1/_p_, _S_/_rT_ is given by

$$\frac{S}{\rho T} = - \frac{\pi^{2}k_{B}^{2}}{3\left|e\right|}\left(\frac{d\sigma(\bm{\epsilon})}{d\bm{\epsilon}}\right)_{\bm{\epsilon} = \mu}.$$

Although it is not clear that this formula is applicable to
La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)Cu_(1 − y)Zn_(y)O₄ in the overdoped region, it may be
reasonable that _S_/_rT_ is universal in the overdoped region, because
_S_/_rT_ does not depend on _s_(_m_) directly but depends only on
[_d_s_(_e_)/_d_e_]__s_ = m. Taking account of the fact that values of
_S_/_rT_ of conventional semiconductors are smaller than those of
conventional metals, the samples exhibiting the anomalous behaviors of r
and T_(c) and their neighboring ones are inferred to be less metallic
than others. As already pointed out, the electronic states of the
samples exhibiting the anomalous behaviors are guessed from values of S
to be almost the same. Consequently, there is a possibility that an
ordering of holes and/or spins is formed or fluctuates in these samples,
leading to the less-metallic behaviors and the slight suppression of
superconductivity.

For nonsubstituted samples with y = 0, the value of x around which the
anomalies occur is neither the simply expected one 1/4 nor 1/5 but 0.22.
This may be explained as follows. In the overdoped region, holes may be
supplied to not only oxygen in the CuO₂ plane but also the apical oxygen
or the so-called blocking layer.[19, 20] Consequently, it is possible
that the value of p in the CuO₂ plane is 1/5, 1/6, or 1/7 at x = 0.22.
This inference is supported by the experimental result of inelastic
neutron scattering.[21]

Another possibility to explain the magic number 0.22 is that 2/32 =
0.22. As 2/42 = 1/8, 2/_n_2 (_n_: integer) may be magic numbers.
Formerly, it was pointed out by Maeno _et al._ that the equation 2/42 =
1/8 was a key to solve the so-called 1/8 problem in
La_(2 − x)Ba_(x)CuO₄.[22] They imagined localized hole pairs forming a 4
×4 square superlattice in the CuO₂ plane of La_(2 − x)Ba_(x)CuO₄ with x
= 1/8. By analogy, there is a possibility that not the stripe order but
the 3 ×3 square superlattice of hole-pairs is formed or fluctuates at x
= 0.22.

Finally, we discuss the shift of the value of x, around which the
anomalies occur, through the Zn substitution. This is not what we have
expected, because Zn atoms have simply been regarded as pinning centers
at p ∼ 1/8 in the La-based cuprate and also in the Bi-based cuprate, and
no clear shift is observed around p ∼1/8 through the Zn substitution.[6,
10] However, it is supposed that the holes are not transferred to the
nearest neighbor sites of oxygen around Zn²⁺, because the Zhang-Rice
singlet-pair[23] is not formed between Zn

Figure 6: Temperature dependence of the FWHM of the (110)${}_{\rm THT}$
and (220)${}_{\rm THT}$ peaks due to Cu_(α1) radiation for
La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)Cu_(1 − y)Zn_(y)O₄ with [_x_ = 0.22 and y = 0], [_x_ =
0.20 and y = 0.005], and [_x_ = 0.19 and y = 0.01]. Arrows indicate the
THT-OMT transition temperature _T__d_1.

Figure 7: Sr-concentration x dependences of _T__d_1 and T_(c) for
La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)Cu_(1 − y)Zn_(y)O₄ with y = 0 (closed circles, open
circles), 0.005 (closed triangle, open triangles), and 0.01 (closed
square, open squares). Crosses are data of _T__d_1 of y = 0 by Takagi
_et al._ (Ref. [16]). Large arrows indicate x values of the samples
exhibiting the most anomalous properties. Lines are guides to the eye.

and O⁻. This exclusion of holes from the neighbors of Zn²⁺ leads to the
local enhancement of the hole concentration in the region far from Zn²⁺.
Therefore, the local hole concentration in the region far from Zn²⁺ will
increase with increasing y in La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)Cu_(1 − y)Zn_(y)O₄. As the
amount of holes increases with increasing x, the local hole
concentration in the region far from Zn²⁺ may be almost the same between
the samples with [x = 0.22 and y = 0] and [x = 0.20− 0.21 and y = 0.005]
and [x = 0.185− 0.195 and y = 0.01]. This speculation is supported by
the experimental result that values of S in the normal state of these
samples are almost the same. As for the fact that there was no clear
shift of the x value around y ∼ 1/8 through the Zn substitution, it may
be due to the small influence of the exclusion of holes from the
neighbors of Zn²⁺, because the amount of holes is small in the
underdoped region. The discussion mentioned above is very speculative
and must be substantiated by other measurements.

## V Conclusion

In the overdoped region of La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)Cu_(1 − y)Zn_(y)O₄, we have
found anomalously less-metallic behaviors of the electrical resistivity
and the thermoelectric power at [x = 0.22 and y = 0] and [x = 0.20− 0.21
and y = 0.005] and [x = 0.185− 0.195 and y = 0.01] than usual. In the
anomalously less-metallic samples, values of the thermoelectric power in
the normal state are almost the same, meaning that the electronic states
of these samples are almost the same. Moreover, superconductivity is a
little suppressed in these samples. These anomalies are not connected
with the structural phase transition between the tetragonal
high-temperature phase and the orthorhombic midtemperature one. There is
a possibility that an ordering of holes and/or spins, such as the
so-called stripe order or the 3 x 3 square superlattice of hole pairs,
is formed or fluctuates in these samples in the overdoped region.

In order to clear up the possible order, further experiments such as
electron diffraction and neutron diffraction are necessary in the
samples exhibiting the anomalous properties.

## Acknowledgments

This work was supported by a Grant-in-Aid for Scientific Research on
Priority Areas "Anomalous Metallic State near the Mott Transition"
(07237102) of the Ministry of Education, Science, Sports and Culture,
Japan, and also supported by CREST (Core Research for Evolutional
Science and Technology) of the Japan Science and Technology Corporation
(JST).

## References

* [1] J. M. Tranquada, B. J. Sterlieb, J. D. Axe, Y. Nakamura, and S.
Uchida, Nature (London) **375**, 561 (1995). * [2] J. M. Tranquada, J.
D. Axe, N. Ichikawa, Y. Nakamura, S. Uchida, and B. Nachumi, Phys. Rev.
B **54**, 7489 (1996). * [3] A. R. Moodenbaugh, Youwen Xu, M. Suenaga,
T. J. Folkerts, and R. N. Shelton, Phys. Rev. B **38**, 4596 (1988). *
[4] K. Kumagai, Y. Nakamura, I. Watanabe, Y. Nakamichi, and H. Nakajima,
J. Magn. Magn. Mater. **76&77**, 601 (1988). * [5] M. K. Crawford, R. L.
Harlow, E. M. McCarron, W. E. Farneh, J. D. Axe, H. Chou, and Q. Huang,
Phys. Rev. B **44**, 7749 (1991). * [6] Y. Koike, A. Kobayashi, T.
Kawaguchi, M. Kato, T. Noji, Y. Ono, T. Hikita, and Y. Saito, Solid
State Commun. **82**, 889 (1992). * [7] Y. Koike, S. Takeuchi, H. Sato,
Y. Hama, M. Kato, Y. Ono, and S. Katano, J. Low Temp. Phys. **105**, 317
(1996). * [8] Y. Koike, S. Takeuchi, Y. Hama, H. Sato, T. Adachi, and M.
Kato, Physica C **282-287**, 1233 (1997). * [9] T. Adachi, T. Noji, H.
Sato, Y. Koike, T. Nishizaki, and N. Kobayashi (unpublished). * [10] M.
Akoshima, T. Noji, Y. Ono, and Y. Koike, Phys. Rev. B **57**, 7491
(1998). * [11] J. M. Tranquada, D. J. Buttrey, V. Schonen, and J. E.
Lorenzo, Phys. Rev. Lett. **73**, 1003 (1994).

* [12] S. H. Han, M. B. Haple, Z. Fisk, S-W. Cheong, A. S. Cooper, O.
Chmaissem, J. D. Sullivan, and M. Marezio, Phys. Rev. B **52**, 1347
(1995). * [13] S-W. Cheong, H. Y. Hwang, C. H. Chen, B. Batlogg, L. W.
Rupp, Jr., and S. A. Carter, Phys. Rev. B **49**, 7088 (1994). * [14] S.
D. Obertelli, J. R. Cooper, and J. L. Tallon, Phys. Rev. B **46**, 14
928 (1992). * [15] J. L. Tallon, C. Bernhard, H. Shaked, R. L.
Hitterman, and J. D. Jorgensen, Phys. Rev. B **51**, 12 911 (1995). *
[16] H. Takagi, R. J. Cava, M. Marezio, B. Batlogg, J. J. Krajewski, W.
F. Peck, Jr., P. Bordet, and D. E. Cox, Phys. Rev. Lett. **68**, 3777
(1992). * [17] T. Goto, K. Seki, S. Kazama, H. Koizumi, and T. Fukase,
Physica C **235-240**, 1663 (1994). * [18] F. J. Blatt, P. A. Schroeder,
C. Foiles, and D. Greig, _Thermoelectric Power of Metals_ (Plenum, New
York, 1976). * [19] S. Uchida, T. Ido, H. Takagi, T. Arima, Y. Tokura,
and S. Tajima, Phys. Rev. B **43**, 7942 (1991). * [20] A. Fujiwara, Y.
Koike, T. Noji, Y. Saito, T. Nishizaki, N. Kobayashi, A. Yamanaka, S.
Takekawa, and F. Minami, Phys. Rev. B **52**, 15 598 (1995). * [21] K.
Yamada, C. H. Lee, K. Kurahashi, J. Wada, S. Wakimoto, S. Ueki, H.
Kimura, Y. Endoh, S. Hosoya, G. Shirane, R. J. Birgeneau, M. Greven, M.
A. Kastner, and Y. J. Kim, Phys. Rev. B **57**, 6165 (1998). The
incommensurability of the incommensurate scattering peaks around (π, π)
in the reciprocal space of La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄ tends to be saturated
with increasing x in the overdoped region, while it increases linearly
with increasing x in the underdoped region. As the incommensurability is
likely to be related to the value of p in the CuO₂ plane, the p value is
guessed to be smaller in the overdoped region than the x value. * [22]
Y. Maeno, N. Kakehi, Y. Tanaka, T. Tomita, F. Nakamura, and T. Fujita,
_Proceedings of Lattice Effects in High-T_(c) Superconductors_, Santa
Fe, 1992, edited by Y. Bar-Yam (World Scientific, Singapore, 1992), p.
542. * [23] F. C. Zhang and T. M. Rice, Phys. Rev. B **37**, 3759
(1988).
