# Transport properties of Cu-O chains in Sr2CuO3+_d_

W. B. Archibald, J.-S. Zhou, and J. B. Goodenough

Center for Materials Science and Engineering, ETC 9.102, University of
Texas at Austin, Austin, Texas 78712-1063

10 July 1995

###### Abstract

High-pressure oxidation of Sr2CuO3+_d_ with d < 0.1 has produced samples
with metallic chains as well as those with small-polaron behavior. The
paramagnetic susceptibility evolves with increasing d from a primarily
Bonner-Fisher temperature dependence to a Curie-Weiss behavior for
small-polaron samples and a strongly mass-enhanced Pauli paramagnetism
for the metallic samples. Samples of intermediate oxidation exhibited a
smooth transition from metallic behavior at low temperatures to
small-polaron behavior at higher temperatures. The small low-temperature
Seebeck coefficient _a_(_T_) of the metallic samples exhibited a
negative enhancement characterized by a hump at approximately 75 K
typical of acoustic-phonon drag; there was no evidence for an _a_(_T_)
like that of the CuO2 planes of the superconductive cuprates, which have
an enhancement with a _T_max 140 K that we have associated with vibronic
states derived from dynamic pseudo-Jahn-Teller deformations of the Cu
sites inside large correlation polarons. These data support the
suggestion that an enhancement with a _T_max 140 K found for the chains
in YBa2Cu3O6,96 is the result of a strong elastic coupling to the
superconductive CuO2 sheets and is not an intrinsic property of the
chains.

## Introduction

We report on the transport properties of orthorhombic Sr2CuO3+_δ_, which
contains isolated chains of corner-shared square-coplanar CuO4 units
(Fig. 1). Similar one-dimensional chains are found in the 90-K
superconductor YBa2Cu3O7-_δ_ but in this structure the apical oxygen are
shared by the Cu of the superconductive two-dimensional CuO2 sheets. In
superconductive La2-_x_Sr2CuO4, there are no chains, only CuO2 sheets.

In the superconductive and overdoped La2-_x_Sr2CuO4 compositions, we
have found1 an enhancement term _δ_a_(_T_) in the Seebeck coefficient

α(T) = α₀ + δα(T),

that has a maximum value at a _T_max 140 K; the nearly
temperature-independent term a0 decreases monotonically from a large,
positive value in the optimally doped sample x = 0.15 to a small,
negative value in the overdoped sample x = 0.30. We have argued that a
_T_max 140 K is too high for the _δ_a_(_T_) enhancement to be accounted
for with a process involving acoustic phonons, but that it is compatible
with one involving optical-mode phonons. We have also shown that holes
trapped in pockets of more covalently bonded regions of a CuO2 sheet
would form nonadiabatic large polarons occupying about five Cu sites as
a result of cooperative, dynamic pseudo-Jahn-Teller deformations of the
sites within a polaron,2,3 and that interpolon elastic coupling would
cause the polaron gas to condense into a polaron liquid below 300 K and
into a polaron solid below _T__(C) in the superconductive
compositions.2,4 The strong electron-lattice interactions associated
with the dynamic, cooperative pseudo-Jahn-Teller deformations result in
_vibronic_ charge carriers that, as a polaron-liquid or polaron-solid
phase, give rise to a vibronic energy dispersion _ε_(**k**) capable of
introducing an optical-mode enhancement _δ_a_(_T_) to the Seebeck
coefficient. Moreover, the vibronic energy dispersion _ε_(**k**) would
be extremely flat in the Cu-O bond directions, as observed with
angle-resolved photoemission spectroscopy,5 and would exhibit a midband
energy gap in the superconductive compositions that disappeared with the
loss of polaron formation in the overdoped compositions where the
vibronic states become homogeneous over the Cu atoms of a CuO2 sheet.

Thermopower measurements of the YBa2Cu3O7-_δ_ 90-K superconductor record
a negative contribution from the chains of the Cu(1)O1-_δ_ planes that
is competitive with the

Figure 1: The structure of orthorhombic Sr2CuO3 showing isolated chains
of corner-shared square-coplanar CuO4 units.

positive contribution from the CuO₂ sheets.[6] By simultaneously
substituting Ca for Y and La for Ba so as to maintain the optimum
oxidation state of the Cu-O array, it proved possible to suppress the
chain contribution to the thermopower by breaking up the chains.[7] With
this strategy we could demonstrate not only that the optimally doped
CuO₂ sheets gave the same thermopower behavior in YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) as in
La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄, but also that the chain contribution too could be
described by Eq. (1), but with a change in sign of both α₀ and δα(T)
with a $T_{\rm max}$≈140 K as for the sheets. Since the chains would not
support vibronic states associated with cooperative pseudo-Jahn-Teller
deformations as in the CuO₂ sheets unless they were driven by coupling
to the sheets, we were motivated to investigate the character of the
charge carriers in isolated chains and whether any enhancement
associated with itinerant charge carriers in these chains gave an
enhancement factor δα(T) with a $T_{\rm max}$≈140 K or one with a lower
$T_{\rm max}$ characteristic of a conventional acoustic-phonon drag.

The isolated Cu-O chains of the orthorhombic Sr₂CuO₃ structure, Fig. 1,
give a spin magnetic susceptibility described by[8]

$$\chi(T) = \rho\chi_{\rm CW} + (1 - \rho)\chi_{\rm BF},$$
(2)

where $\chi_{\rm CW}$ is a Curie-Weiss component associated with
impurities or short chain lengths with an odd number of Cu²⁺ sites and
$\chi_{\rm BF}$ is the Bonner-Fisher[9] susceptibility for an S = 1/2
infinite, isotropic Heisenberg chain with an antiferromagnetic exchange
constant |J|/k_(B)≈1300 K. The low-spin Cu⁵⁺ centers are diamagnetic.
The parameter ρ increased with oxidation, but the extent of doping of
the chains either n-type or p-type has been so small that there has been
no report on their transport properties. A challenge for us, therefore,
was to find a way to oxidize the chains sufficiently to render them
metallic; without an energy dispersion $\epsilon({\bf k})$, it would not
be possible to observe an enhancement term δα(T) of the Seebeck
coefficient.[1] However, the experiment faced another hazard. A
one-dimensional metal having a partially filled, narrow band of
itinerant electrons is unstable with respect to stabilization of a
Peierls charge-density wave (CDW) in a single-valent system and to a
sliding CDW in a mixed-valent system.

Fortunately we have been able to oxidize under high oxygen pressure the
Cu-O chains to the metallic state with no CDW transition; the
thermopower shows a δα(T), but with a $T_{\rm max}$≈75 K characteristic
of a conventional phonon drag rather than the $T_{\rm max}$≈140 K
characteristic of the superconductive copper oxides.

## Experimental

Sr₂CuO₃ was prepared by conventional solid-state reaction of
stoichiometric quantities of SrCO₃ and CuO calcined at 950 ^(∘)C,
sintered at 1000 ^(∘)C in air, and quenched from 500 ^(∘)C. We were
unable to make n-type Sr₂CuO₃ with either chemical substitution or
reduction under high pressure. However, we were able to oxidize Sr₂CuO₃
under a high oxygen pressure in the range 20≈$P_{\rm O(2)}$≈55 kbar at
temperatures 800≈T≈1100 ^(∘)C.

Powdered single-phase Sr₂CuO₃ was pelletized, sintered, and placed in a
copper crucible together with KClO₄ as an oxygen source. A gold ring was
placed between the sample and the copper crucible; a disk of
yttrium-stabilized zirconia separated the sample and the KClO₄. The
zirconia disk allowed the transfer of oxygen, but blocked the transfer
of K⁺ and Cl⁻ ions. Separation of the sample and the KClO₄ proved
critical as contamination with K⁺ ions stabilizes an Sr₂CuO_(4 − λ)
tetragonal phase containing CuO₂ planes. Before assembly, all materials
were dried. The temperature inside the pressure chamber was determined
from a calibrated curve of heater-input power versus temperature. The
interstitial-oxygen concentration of the product could be controlled by
varying the temperature of the high-pressure anneal. All samples were
quenched under high pressure. Oxidized Sr₂CuO_(3 + δ) samples exhibiting
polaronic transport behavior were highly reproducible; the preparation
of metallic samples was more difficult to reproduce as the synthesis
conditions are very close to those that transform the orthorhombic phase
to the tetragonal phase containing CuO₂ planes instead of chains.

Previous attempts[10] to prepare orthorhombic Sr₂CuO_(3 + δ) missed the
orthorhombic phase with metallic chains because of stabilization of the
tetragonal phase under high pressure. In those experiments, there was
contact of the sample with the KClO₄ oxygen source. We found that such
contact converts the orthorhombic Sr₂CuO_(3 + δ) phase to the tetragonal
phase at lower annealing temperatures, which narrows the range of δ for
the orthorhombic phase in the P-T phase diagram and suppresses the
metallic compositions.

All the orthorhombic Sr₂CuO_(3 + δ) samples, both those having polaronic
conduction and those that were metallic, gradually lose oxygen over a
period of a few days under ambient conditions. Therefore all
measurements were carried out on fresh samples below 300 K.

Since the Sr₂CuO_(3 + δ) structure lacks high-angle diffraction peaks,
we calculated the lattice parameters by curve fitting several
good-profile peaks against Mo as an internal standard. The oxygen
content was determined by iodiometric titration. Magnetic
susceptibilities were taken with a superconducting quantum interference
device magnetometer (Quantum Design); thermopower and conductivity data
were obtained with a home-built apparatus described elsewhere.[11]

In the metallic samples the value of the Seebeck coefficient is low
enough that the contribution from the copper leads cannot be neglected,
especially in the low-temperature range. In order to correct for the
background, the contribution to the Seebeck coefficient from the copper
leads was measured directly at low temperatures (T<80 K) with a
123-superconductor sample. The copper-lead contribution above 80 K is
almost linearly dependent on temperature and was taken from the
literature.

## Results

From Fig. 1, it is apparent that the extra oxygen can occupy two
possible interstitial sites: one is located between two Cu atoms of
adjacent Cu-O chains, the other is within the Sr₂O₂ rocksalt layer
coordinated tetrahedrally by four Sr²⁺ ions and also by four oxygen
atoms as in La₂NiO_(4 + δ) (Ref. [12]) and La₂CuO_(4 + δ).[13] The
evolution of the lattice parameters with increasing interstitial oxygen
concentration δ is given in Table 1; an increase in the c parameter with
no measurable change in the a and b parameters indicates that the
interstitial oxygen atoms occupy sites in the Sr2O2 rocksalt layers. In
the Sr2O2 layers, the interstitial oxygen does not coordinate a Cu atom,
so the Cu-O-Cu interactions in the chains remain relatively unperturbed
except for interactions between the interstitial oxygen and the apical
oxygen of the chains. In the case of La2CuO4+_d_, the interstitial
oxygen oxidize the CuO2 sheets at low temperatures to make them
superconductive.[14] Similarly located interstitial oxygen atoms in
Sr2CuO3+_d_ can be expected to oxidize the Cu-O chains by capturing two
electrons to become O_(i)²⁻ ions rather than bonding with the apical
oxygen to form a polyanion such as the peroxide (O2)²⁻ ion.

Figure 2 shows the x-ray-diffraction patterns taken with Cu _K_α
radiation in the range 30.5deg<=2_th_<=35deg for (a) the lightly
oxidized (polaronic) and the parent orthorhombic Sr2CuO3+_d_, (b) the
metallic, orthorhombic Sr2CuO3+_d_, and (c) the tetragonal phase. The
metallic samples show a superlattice peak at 2_th_>=32.3deg; this peak
does not belong to the tetragonal phase, which has a peak below
2_th_=32deg. We presume the superlattice peak is due to an ordering of
the interstitial oxygen atoms.

Ami _et al.[8]_ found the Curie-Weiss component in Eq. (2) increases
with d (to a maximum d  0.02 in their experiments), which they
interpreted to be due to an increase of finite chain lengths containing
an odd number of Cu²⁺ ions. Figure 3 shows our spin susceptibility data
obtained by subtracting from the measured susceptibility a closed-shell
diamagnetic term $\chi_{\rm dia} = - 7.7 \times 10^{- 5}$ cm³/mol. For
the starting material, a small value of the parameter r of Eq. (2)
indicates a nearly stoichiometric Sr2CuO3 according to the analysis of
Ami _et al.[8]_ As d increases in orthorhombic, polaronic Sr2CuO3+_d_,
creation of low-spin Cu³⁺ ions reduces the lengths of the spin-1/2
antiferromagnetic chains, and the Curie-Weiss component increases until
a typical Curie-Weiss behavior is found as illustrated in Figs. 3(b) and
3(c). However, oxidation to metallic, orthorhombic Sr2CuO3+_d_ destroys
the Curie-Weiss behavior; the metallic phase shows a nearly
temperature-independent magnetic susceptibility, Fig. 3, that is higher
than expected for a conventional metal. The high density of states at
the Fermi energy _ef_ derived from an itinerant-particle model indicates
a strong mass enhancement of the Pauli susceptibility. The itineracy of
the electronic states in the metallic samples is confirmed by the
thermopower data shown in Fig. 4.

As Figs. 4 and 5 show, the starting Sr2CuO3 sample gives a typical
semiconductive behavior expected for a half-filled

Figure 3: Magnetic susceptibility (_λ_) and inverse magnetic
susceptibility (_λ_−1) vs temperature with diamagnetic core
contributions (_λ_dia) subtracted.

           As-prepared   Polaronic    Metallic
  ------- ------------- ----------- -------------
   a (Å)    3.916(0)     3.917(1)     3.915(2)
   b (Å)    3.502(1)     3.500(1)     3.499(1)
   c (Å)    12.706(2)    12.713(2)    12.712(2)
    _δ_      0.01(1)      0.03(1)    0.03<δ<0.1a

Table 1: Lattice parameters and additional oxygen content (_δ_) for the
metallic, polaronic, and as-prepared Sr2CuO3+_δ_.

Figure 2: Evolution of the x-ray-diffraction pattern with doping in the
range 30.5°<=2_θ_<34°. (a) As-prepared and lightly oxidized (polaronic),
orthorhombic Sr2CuO3+_δ_, (b) metallic, orthorhombic Sr2CuO3+_δ_ with
superlattice peak marked with (*), (c) tetragonal Sr2CuO4−_δ_.

z² − x² band that is split into two Hubbard bands by strong on-site
electron-electron interactions. Charge carriers are introduced by
thermal excitation across an energy gap. The large $x_{\rm BF}$ in this
sample is consistent with this result. The lightly doped Sr₂CuO_(3 + δ)
samples show a large, temperature-independent Seebeck coefficient above
200 K that is typical of polaronic behavior. Calculation of the
magnitude of α=(k/e)ln [2(1 − c)/c] for a small-polaron occupancy
fraction c gave a value for c equal, within experimental error, to 2 δ
as determined by iodimetric titration. A small-polaron hopping
conduction of holes at low-spin Cu³⁺ ions is also consistent with our
interpretation of the evolution of magnetic susceptibility with δ.

The metallic sample of Fig. 4 gave a small Seebeck coefficient that
increases nearly linearly with temperature below and above 200 K. The
inset of Fig. 4 shows there is also a resistivity anomaly at 200 K.
Another sample, Fig. 5, shows metallic behavior below 120 K with a
transition to polaronic behavior above 230 K. The data of Figs. 4 and 5
are corrected by subtraction of the contribution from the copper leads
as determined independently. In addition to the change in slope of α(T)
near 200 K, we call attention to two additional features of Fig. 4: the
high values of α(T) above 200 K and a negative enhancement factor δα(T)
below 200 K with a hump centered at $T_{\rm max}$∼75 K.

## Discussion

The Cu-O bond lengths in orthorhombic Sr₂CuO₃ have an equilibrium value
for a Cu²⁺ ion, which makes it difficult to add or subtract antibonding
electrons within this structure. As demonstrated for CuO₂ sheets,[15]
application of a tensile stress is needed for n-type doping and of a
compressive stress for p-type doping. We were able to dope orthorhombic
Sr₂CuO₃p-type by oxidation under a compressive stress with
$P_{\rm O(2)}$≈55 kbar to obtain Sr₂CuO_(3 + δ) with δ<0.1. Application
of higher oxygen pressures or substitution of some Sr²⁺ by K⁺ stabilizes
a tetragonal Sr₂CuO_(4 − λ) phase containing CuO₂ planes with Cu atoms
coordinated by five or six oxygen atoms.

In orthorhombic Sr₂CuO_(3 + δ) the δ excess oxygen atoms occupy
interstitial sites in the Sr₂O₂ sheets as O₁²⁻ ions, a situation
analogous to that of the δ excess oxygen in La₂NiO_(4 + δ) and
superconductive La₂CuO_(4 + δ) The appearance of a superlattice
diffraction peak in metallic Sr₂CuO_(3 + δ) samples suggests an ordering
of the O₁²⁻ ions.

As in the CuO₂ sheets of the cuprate superconductors, there is a change
from small-polaron to metallic (large-polaron) conduction with increased
oxidation. However, the CuO₂ sheets have intermediate-size nonadiabatic
polarons (about five Cu sites) and a condensation of a polaron gas into
a polaron liquid segregating the parent antiferromagnetic-insulator
phase from the superconductive phase below 300 K in the underdoped
region; the isolated chains of Sr₂CuO_(3 + δ) support only small
polarons (one Cu site) or a metallic behavior characteristic of a
mass-enhanced Fermi liquid. The smooth transition from Fermi-liquid (or
large-polaron) to small-polaron behavior with increasing temperature at
intermediate doping, Fig. 5, contrasts sharply with the transition from
a polaron liquid to a polaron gas near 300 K in the superconductive
cuprates. In the superconductors, a δα(T) with a $T_{\rm max}$≈140 K is
superposed on a large α₀ whereas the isolated chains of metallic
Sr₂CuO_(3 + δ) have a small α(T) at lower temperatures with a δα(T)<0
described by a hump with a broad maximum at $T_{\rm max}$∼75 K, which is
typical of a phonon-drag process,[16] but with the peak greatly
suppressed. There is no evidence for vibronic coupling in isolated
chains; the δα(T) with a $T_{\rm max}$≈140 K observed for chains in the

Figure 4: Seebeck coefficient α vs temperature for (a) as-prepared, (b)
polaronic, and (c) metallic Sr₂CuO_(3 + δ) Inset: Resistance vs
temperature for the metallic sample.

Figure 5: Seebeck coefficient α vs temperature for a sample with oxygen
doping intermediate to the metallic and polaronic samples of Fig. 4
showing a smooth transition from metallic behavior at low temperatures
to small-polaron behavior at higher temperatures.

90-K superconductor YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) is therefore to be associated with
a strong elastic coupling in that compound to CuO₂ sheets where, we have
postulated, vibronic coupling is occurring within the polarons of a
polaron liquid to give a vibronic energy dispersion $\epsilon({\bf k})$.
The elastic coupling between chains and sheets via shared apical oxygen
atoms provides a coupling mechanism between CuO₂ sheets across the
Cu(1)O_(1 − δ) planes that may be as important as the band overlap of
the charge reservoir in contributing to the high-T_(c) of
YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ)

The Seebeck coefficient for polaronic conduction obeys the hopping
formula α=(k/e)ln[2(1-c)/c] only in the high-temperature limit, which
corresponds to T>150 K in Fig. 4(b). At low temperatures, the Seebeck
coefficient normally approaches zero as T^(1/2). However, polaronic
Sr₂CuO_(3 + δ) shows an abrupt drop in α to a negative value below 150
K, Fig. 4(b), which we associate with the onset of either a static
charge-density wave or long-range ordering of Cu³⁺ ions. Therefore, the
absence of a CDW in metallic Sr₂CuO_(3 + δ) is noteworthy.

The linear relation between α and temperature found in the metallic
samples is expected from the Mott formula; the additional hump at low
temperatures ($T_{\rm max}$${}^{\rm w}$75 K) is due to phonon drag. The
magnitude of the thermopower of a metal at a given temperature reflects
the asymmetry of the $\epsilon({\bf k})$ dispersion curve near the Fermi
energy ϵ_(f); the value of α is normally below 40 μV/K, so the high
value of α above 200 K in Fig. 4(c) is exceptional. The extremely high
value of the susceptibility in our metallic Sr₂CuO_(3 + δ) indicates a
narrow-band conduction at the limit where a transition to polaronic
behavior occurs. As the temperature increases at this limit, motional
narrowing could cause a resonance between the itinerant and
small-polaron electron states with a full transition to small-polaron
conduction at higher temperatures. Just such a transition is seen below
300 K in Fig. 5, and we believe that the change in the slope of the
Seebeck coefficient above 20 μV/K in Fig. 4(c) reflects the onset of
such a transition in our metallic Sr₂CuO_(3 + δ) sample. In this case α
no longer possesses a pure itinerant behavior. The anomaly in the
resistance measurement seems to support this argument is dominated by
grain-boundary scattering, nevertheless the temperature-independent
resistance changes to semiconductive behavior around 180 K, which
corresponds to the change in slope in the thermopower vs temperature. We
suspect that the phonon drag is associated with a large itinerant
electron fraction, but that a resonance to a small-polaron fraction
persists to lowest temperatures to suppress stabilization of a CDW and
phonon drag in this phase.

## Conclusions

Orthorhombic Sr₂CuO₃ exhibiting Bonner-Fisher behavior was doped under
high oxygen pressure. Orthorhombic Sr₂CuO_(3 + δ) shows semiconducting,
small-polaron, and metallic conduction as δ is increased. Comparison of
the magnetic and transport behavior of orthorhombic Sr₂CuO_(3 + δ) and
the CuO₂ sheets of the cuprate superconductors indicates that the
cooperation of lattice deformations associated with the charge carriers
in two dimensions is a necessary condition for the formation of
intermediate-size polarons. Metallic Sr₂CuO_(3 + δ) exhibits normal
phonon-drag effects with a peak at $T_{\rm max}$${}^{\rm w}$75 K instead
of the large enhancement in α(T) at $T_{\rm max}$${}^{\rm w}$140 K found
in the cuprate superconductors, which we have interpreted as evidence
for vibronic coupling between optical phonons and electronic states. A
smooth transition from metallic to polaronic behavior with increasing
temperature suggests the coexistence of the two types of electrons is
present over a wide temperature range and may be responsible for
suppressing a Peierls distortion and the phonon-drag component in the
thermopower of the metallic chains.

_Note added in proof._ Shin _et al._[17] have reported an investigation
of Sr_(2 − x)Na_(x)CuO₃ (0≤x≤0.5). This system remains a polaronic
conductor to x = 0.5.

## Acknowledgments

We would like to thank Dr. K. S. Nanjundaswamy for his help in sample
preparation, and the Robert A. Welch Foundation, Houston, Texas, the
Texas Advanced Research Program, and the National Science Foundation for
financial support.

## References

* (1) J.-S. Zhou and J. B. Goodenough, Phys. Rev. B **51**, 3104
(1995). * (2) G. Bersuker and J. B. Goodenough (unpublished). * (3)
J.-S. Zhou, G. Bersuker, and J. B. Goodenough, J. Supercond., **8**
(1995). * (4) J. B. Goodenough and J.-S. Zhou, Phys. Rev. B **49**, 4251
(1994). * (5) D. M. King _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **73**, 3298
(1994). * (6) A. J. Lowe, S. Regan, and M. A. Howson, Phys. Rev. B
**44**, 9757 (1991). * (7) J.-S. Zhou, J. P. Zhou, J. B. Goodenough, and
J. T. McDevitt, Phys. Rev. B **51**, 3250 (1995). * (8) T. Ami, M. K.
Crawford, R. L. Harlow, Z. R. Wang, D. C. Johnston, Q. Huang, and R. W.
Erwin, Phys. Rev. B **51**, 5994 (1995). * (9) J. C. Bonner and M. E.
Fisher, Phys. Rev. **135**, A640 (1964). * (10) Z. Hiroi, M. Takano, M.
Azuma, and Y. Takeda, Nature (London) **364**, 315 (1993). * (11) J. B.
Goodenough, J.-S. Zhou, and J. Chan, Phys. Rev. B **47**, 5275 (1993). *
(12) J. D. Jorgenson, B. Dabrowski, S. Pei, D. R. Richards, and D. G.
Hinks, Phys. Rev. B **40**, 2187 (1989). * (13) C. Chaillout, J.
Chenavas, S. W. Cheong, Z. Fisk, M. Marezio, B. Morosin, and J. E.
Schirber, Physica C **170**, 87 (1990). * (14) J.-S. Zhou, H. Chen, and
J. B. Goodenough, Phys. Rev. B **50**, 4168 (1994). * (15) J. B.
Goodenough and A. Manthiram, J. Solid State Chem. **88**, 115 (1990). *
(16) D. K. C. MacDonald, _Thermoelectricity: An Introduction to the
Principles_ (Wiley, New York, 1962). * (17) Y. J. Shin, E. D. Manova, J.
M. Dance, P. Dordor, J. C. Grenier, E. Marquestaut, J. P. Doumerc, M.
Pouchard, and P. Hagenmuller, Z. Anorg. Allg. Chem. **616**, 201 (1992).

Figure 1: The structure of orthorhombic Sr₂CuO₃ showing isolated chains
of corner-shared square-coplanar CuO₄ units.
