Magnetic properties of Nd₂CuO₄-type R₂CuO₄ (R = Y, Dy, Ho, Er, Tm)
synthesized under high pressure: Weak ferromagnetism of Y₂CuO₄

Hiroshi Okada

Materials Research Laboratory, Kobe Steel, Ltd., Kobe 651, Japan

Mikio Takano

Institute for Chemical Research, Kyoto University, Uji, Kyoto-fu 611,
Japan

Yasuo Takeda

Faculty of Engineering, Mie University, Tsu 514, Japan

25 June 1990

###### Abstract

Magnetization of R₂CuO₄ (R = Y, Dy, Ho, Er, Tm) crystallizing in the
Nd₂CuO₄-type (T^(*)) structure has been measured between 4 and 300 K. In
Y₂CuO₄ antiferromagnetic ordering of Cu²⁺ spins at 260 K has been
detected clearly, without being interfered with by the paramagnetic
contribution of rare-earth elements as in the other compositions. Weak
ferromagnetic behavior with a moment of 9 x 10⁻ _m__m_/Cu accompanies
the antiferromagnetic transition. Dy¹⁺, Ho³⁺, Er³⁺, and Tm³⁺ ions obey
the Curie-Weiss law at relatively high temperatures, and the effective
moments are in good agreement with the values anticipated from their
lowest multiplet levels. Various types of deviations from the law occur
at low temperatures. Specifically, a sharp kink possibly suggesting
antiferromagnetic ordering of the Dy³⁺ moments has been found at 7 K.
Anomalies around 200 K for Ho₂CuO₄ and Er₂CuO₄ reflect the weak
ferromagnetic contribution of the CuO₂ lattice.

## Introduction

Since the discovery of high-temperature superconductivity in Cu oxides,
much attention has been focused on the potential relevance of the
antiferromagnetic character of two-dimensional Cu-O sheets to
superconductivity. Magnetic properties of the prototype materials like
La₂CuO₄ and Nd₂CuO₄ have been studied in detail. [1]⁻[3]

La₂CuO₄ and Nd₂CuO₄ crystallize in the so-called T and T^(*) structures,
respectively. In a previous paper we reported that R₂CuO₄’s with R = Y,
Dy, Ho, Er, and Tm are stabilized in the T^(*) structure under high
pressures, [4] while, under ambient pressure, only those with larger R
ions, Pr-Gd, crystallize in this structure. Here we report preliminary
results of magnetic measurements on these new T^(*) phases. Especially
Y₂CuO₄ has given an opportunity to reveal the magnetism of the CuO₂
sheets without being strongly interfered with by the rare-earth moments
as in the other compositions.

## Experiment

The samples were synthesized by the reaction of R₂O₃ and R₂Cu₂O₅ under a
pressure of 6 GPa at 1223 K for 0.5 h using a belt-type apparatus (see
Ref. 4 for further details). Magnetic measurements were made with a
superconducting quantum interference device (SQUID) susceptometer
between 4 and 300 K in applied fields of 0.01 and 0.1 T. The data were
corrected for ionic diamagnetism of −16 x 10⁻⁶ emu/mole for O²⁻, −11 x
10⁻⁶ emu/mole for Cu²⁺, and −20 x 10⁻⁶ emu/mole for R³⁺. [5]

## Results and Discussion

### Y₂CuO₄

Figure 1 shows the temperature and field dependence of magnetization
divided by applied field M/H of Y₂CuO₄. If the sample is cooled in zero
field, magnetization measured on heating exhibits a broad maximum
centered around 150 K as seen in curves a and b. It is apparent in these
curves that magnetization is not linear to the magnitude of the external
field. On field-cooling, however, magnetization tends to be saturated at
low temperatures as seen in curve c.

Y³⁺ having no magnetic moment, these data have been

Figure 1: M/H vs T (magnetization/field vs temperature) curves for
Y₂CuO₄. Curve a, measured on heating with H = 0.1 T; curves b and c,
measured on heating and cooling, respectively, with H = 0.01 T.

interpreted to directly point to the antiferromagnetic nature of the
CuO₂ lattice accompanied by spin-canted weak ferromagnetism. From the
temperature below which the M/H nonlinearity appears, the Neel
temperature has been determined to be ∼ 260 K. The saturation
magnetization measured on field-cooling down to 4 K corresponds to a
ferromagnetic moment of 9×10⁻⁴μ_(B)/Cu. If the Cu²⁺ ions are assumed to
have an atomic moment of 0.5μ_(B) as in Nd₂CuO₄[3], the canting angle is
calculated to be 0.05^(∘).

The broad maximum in curves a and b in Fig. 1 has been interpreted to
result from a competition between the magnetic anisotropy that fixes the
spin axis along a certain crystalline direction and the energy gain
attained by orienting the weak ferromagnetic moment along the applied
field. If the anisotropy is dominant at low temperatures but is weakened
more quickly as temperature rises, than the energy gain magnetization
should show a broad peak on heating for a powdered sample. Even at a
small field of 0.01 T, the anisotropy effect is almost negligible above
155 K.

The appearance of the weak ferromagnetic moment suggests a structural
distortion of the CuO₂ lattice from tetragonal symmetry giving rise to
antisymmetric exchange interactions between the Cu spins [6]. Such a
distortion has been stated to be experimentally found for Nd₂CuO₄ at 300
K in Ref. [7], while it has been denied in Ref. [8]. Careful x-ray
diffraction measurements on Y₂CuO₄ are in progress.

From detailed magnetization measurements on Gd₂CuO₄ crystals Thompson
_et al._[9] suggested the possibility of a weak ferromagnetic nature of
the CuO₂ lattice with a moment of 1.8×10⁻³± 1.8×10⁻³μ_(B)/Cu (T_(N) =
260 K), which is to be compared with the present data of 9×10⁻⁴μ_(B)/Cu
for Y₂CuO₄. According to a neutron-diffraction study of Nd₂CuO₄[3],
T_(N) is 255 K. Thus, T_(N) seems to remain almost constant for
rare-earth compositions ranging over Nd-Y, though the intralayer Cu−O
bond length is considerably shortened from 0.394 nm for R = Nd to 0.386
nm for R = Y [4]. This apparently suggests the importance of the
interlayer interaction in setting T_(N), but the interlayer distance is
also considerably shortened from 1.217 nm for R = Nd to 1.170 nm for R =
Y [4]

It would be interesting to study Ce-for-Y substitution effects to find
how injection of electrons into the CuO₂ lattice [10], if done, varies
the magnetism of this material; again magnetic measurements are expected
to directly reveal the behavior of the CuO₂ lattice.

### RzCuO₄ with R = Dy, Er, Ho, and Tm

The temperature dependences of M/H and its reciprocal for RzCuO₄ with R
= Dy, Er, Ho, and Tm are shown in Figs. 2-5. In comparison with the data
for Y₂CuO₄, it is apparent that the paramagnetic contribution of these
rare-earth ions is roughly by an order of magnitude larger than the weak
ferromagnetic contribution of Cu ions. Magnetization divided by applied
field of these samples seems to follow the Curie-Weiss law, χ = M/H =
C/(T = θ), above 110, 210, 200, and 150 K, respectively. The rare-earth
moment, μ = (3kC/N)^(1/2), and the para

Figure 3: M/H measured on heating at (a) H = 0.01 T after zero-field
cooling and (b) its reciprocal measured on cooling with H = 0.01 T for
Ho₂CuO₄. The solid line in (b) is a sum of the paramagnetic contribution
of Ho³⁺ calculated using the parameters given in Table 1 and the
field-cooled data for Y₂CuO₄ plotted in Fig. 1, curve c.

Figure 2: (a) M/H and (b) its reciprocal measured on cooling with H =
0.01 T for Dy₂CuO₄.

magnetic Curie temperature θ evaluated from the linear relation of χ⁻¹
vs T at high temperatures are summarized in Table 1. For comparison the
theoretical values of μ_(J) = gμ_(B)[J(J + 1)]^(1/2), where g = 1 +
[J(J + 1) + S(S + 1)− L(L + 1)]/2J(J + 1), for these R ions in their
lowest multiplet levels are also listed in Table 1. The experimental
values agree with the calculated moments within 2

Deviations from the Curie-Weiss law at low temperatures have been
reported for various phases with R = Pr-Gd. Influences of crystal-field
splitting of the multiplet have been considered for R = Pr, Nd, Eu, and
Sm by Saez-Puche _et al._, [11] and influences of an internal field from
the CuO₂ lattice has been detected for Gd₂CuO₄ around its T.[9] In
addition, anomalies due to uncertain, e.g., Gd-Cu and/or Cu-Cu,
interactions and antiferromagnetic order of Gd moments have been found
at 20 and 6.5 K, respectively, for this material.[9]

The anomaly at 7 K for Dy₂CuO₄ seen in Fig. 2 is very similar in
appearance to the sharp peak of an uncertain origin for Gd₂CuO₄ at 20 K,
while the temperature of the anomaly, 7 K, is near the ordering
temperature, 6.5 K, of the Gd moment and also near the temperature of 8
K where antiferromagnetic ordering of Nd moments in Nd₂CuO₄ has been
speculated to occur.[3] Moreover, the sharp anomaly at 20 K for Gd₂CuO₄
appearing at 10⁻4 T has been reported to "move to lower temperatures
with increasing field and merge with the anomaly associated with Neel
ordering of gadolinium for fields greater than 5 kG." Thus, the origin
of the 7-K anomaly may possibly be due to antiferromagnetic ordering of
the Dy moment.

The deviation for Ho₂CuO₄ below ∼200 K can be assigned to the weak
ferromagnetic contribution of the CuO₂ lattice: Magnetization shows such
a hysteresis as found in Y₂CuO₄. The M/H curve measured on heating after
zero-field cooling [Fig. 3(a)] shows a broad anomaly around 150 K, and
the data measured on field-cooling can be reproduced rather well [Fig.
3(b)] by assuming that the paramagnetic contribution of Ho³⁺ ions
calculated using the parameters given in Table 1 is simply added to the
field-cooling curve for Y₂CuO₄ plotted in Fig. 1(c). This kind of
hysteresis has been detected also for Er₂CuO₄, though less pronounced.
But it has not been found within experimental error for Dy₂CuO₄ nor for
Tm₂CuO₄, though the absence of the anomaly does not mean disorder of the
Cu moment.

In summary, this paper reports the magnetic properties of R₂CuO₄ with R
= Y, Dy, Ho, and Tm stabilized in the T^(′) structure under high
pressure. Antiferromagnetism accompanied by a weak ferromagnetic moment
was clearly detected for Y₂CuO₄ and Ho₂CuO₄. Antiferromagnetic ordering
of Dy³⁺ moments has been suggested to take place at 7 K.

## Acknowledgments

The authors appreciate the operation of the high-pressure apparatus by
M. Miyamoto and K. Kitahata and also magnetic measurements by K.
Shibutani. This study was partly supported by a Grant-in-Aid for
Scientific Research on priority areas "Mechanism of Superconductivity"
from the Ministry of Education, Science and Culture.

Figure 4: (a) M/H and (b) its reciprocal measured on cooling with H =
0.01 T for Er₂CuO₄.

Figure 5: (a) M/H and (b) its reciprocal measured on cooling with H =
0.01 T for Tm₂CuO₄.

* [1] Review S-W. Cheong, J. D. Thompson, and Z. Fisk, Physica C
**158**, 109 (1989). * [2] R. J. Birgeneau, D. R. Gabbe, H. P. Jenssen,
M. A. Kastner, G. Shirane, Y. Endoh, M. Sato, K. Yamada, Y. Hidaka, M.
Oda, Y. Enomoto, M. Suzuki, and T. Murakami, Phys. Rev. B **38**, 6614
(1988). * [3] Y. Endoh, M. Matsuda, K. Yamada, K. Kakurai, Y. Hidaka, G.
Shirane, and R. J. Birgeneau, Phys. Rev. B **40**, 7023 (1989). * [4] H.
Okada, M. Takano, and Y. Takeda, Physica C **166**, 111 (1990). * [5] L.
N. Mulay, _Magnetic Susceptibility_ (Wiley, New York, 1963), p. 1782. *
[6] I. Dzyaloshinski, J. Phys. Chem. Solids **4**, 241 (1958); and T.
Moriya, Phys. Rev. **120**, 91 (1960). * [7] S. Skanthakumar, Z. Zhang,
T. W. Chinton, W.-H. Li, J. W. Lynn, Z. Fisk, and S-W. Cheong, Physica C
**160**, 124 (1989). * [8] K. Takada, Y. Watanabe, K. Yamada, Y. Hidaka,
T. Murakami, and Y. Endoh, Physica C **166**, 203 (1990). * [9] J. D.
Thompson, S-W. Cheong, S. E. Brown, Z. Fisk, S. B. Oseroff, M. Tovar, D.
C. Vier, and S. Schultz, Phys. Rev. B **39**, 6660 (1989). * [10]
Y.Tokura, H. Takagi, and S. Uchida, Nature (London) **337**, 345
(1989). * [11] R. Saez-Puche, M. Norton, T. R. White, and W. S.
Glaunsinger, J. Solid State Chem. **50**, 281 (1983).
