# Superconductivity and ferromagnetism in hole-doped RbEuFe₄As₄

Yi Liu

Ya-Bin Liu

Zhang-Tu Tang

Hao Jiang

Hao Jiang

Present address: School of Physics and Optoelectronics, Xiangtan
University, Xiangtan 411105, China. Department of Physics, Zhejiang
University, Hangzhou 310027, China

Zhi-Cheng Wang

Department of Physics, Zhejiang University of Science and Technology,
Hangzhou 310023, China

Abduweli Ablimit

Department of Physics, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310027, China

Wen-He Jiao

Department of Physics, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310027, China

Qian Tao

Department of Physics, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310027, China

Chun-Mu Feng

Department of Physics, Zhejiang University of Science and Technology,
Hangzhou 310023, China

Zhu-An Xu

Gwang-Han Cao

gchao@zju.edu.cn Department of Physics, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou
310027, China Collaborative Innovation Centre of Advanced
Microstructures, Nanjing 210093, China

18 April 20168 April 20168 June 2016

###### Abstract

We discover a robust coexistence of superconductivity and ferromagnetism
in an iron arsenide RbEuFe₄As₄. The new material crystallizes in an
intergrowth structure of RbFe₂As₂ and EuFe₂As₂, such that the Eu
sublattice turns out to be primitive instead of being body-centered in
EuFe₂As₂. The FeAs layers, featured by asymmetric As coordinations, are
hole doped due to charge homogenization. Our combined measurements of
electrical transport, magnetization, and heat capacity unambiguously and
consistently indicate bulk superconductivity at 36.5 K in the FeAs
layers and ferromagnetism at 15 K in the Eu sublattice. Interestingly,
the Eu-spin ferromagnetic ordering belongs to a rare third-order
transition, according to the Ehrenfest classification of phase
transitions. We also identify an additional anomaly at ∼5 K, which is
possibly associated with the interplay between superconductivity and
ferromagnetism.

doi:10.1103/PhysRevB.93.214503

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.93.214503

## I Introduction

Doped EuFe₂As₂ superconductors stand out among Fe-based superconductors
(FeSCs), because the Eu²⁺ local spins (S = 7/2) may order
_ferromagnetically_ in the superconducting state [1, 2, 3, 4]. The
undoped EuFe₂As₂ undergoes an A-type antiferromagnetic (namely, in-plane
ferromagnetic while interplane antiferromagnetic) transition at 19 K in
the Eu sublattice [5, 6, 7], in addition to a spin-density wave (SDW)
transition at 190 K in the Fe sublattice. In the magnetically ordered
state, the Eu spins align along the crystallographic [110] direction,
collinear with the Fe moments [8, 9]. Upon partial P-for-As
substitution, which effectively induces a chemical pressure, the Fe-site
SDW order is suppressed, and then superconductivity (SC) emerges at
$T_{\rm sc}\sim 26$ K [1, 2, 10, 11]. Simultaneously, the Eu spins
become ferromagnetically ordered at $T_{\rm Curie}\sim 20$ K,
accompanied by a spin reorientation towards the [001] (or c-axis)
direction [2]. Similar coexistence of Fe-based SC and Eu-spin
ferromagnetism (FM) was also observed and verified in several Fe-site
electron-doped EuFe₂As₂ systems [12, 13, 14, 15, 16].

Nevertheless, there have been some debates on the details of the Eu-spin
ordering. In Refs. [11, 17], it was argued that SC coexists with Eu-spin
antiferromagnetism (AFM) in the superconducting regime of
EuFe₂(As_(1 − x)P_(x))₂. Later, Zapf _et al._[18] proposed that SC
coexists with a canted AFM, such that it is virtually ferromagnetic
along the c axis. These authors [19] further revised the electronic
phase diagram because of the discovery of a reentrant spin glass state.
Recent x-ray resonant magnetic scattering [3] and neutron scattering [4]
experiments, however, indicated long-range ferromagnetic orderings for
Eu spins in superconducting EuFe₂(As_(1 − x)P_(x))₂ with x = 0.15 and
0.19, respectively. It was demonstrated that the Eu spins align exactly
along the c axis, in contradiction to the spin-canting scenario. So far,
this discrepancy remains unresolved. Note that the spin-tilting angle
(∼20^(′) from the c axis, as detected by Mossbauer measurements [2, 20])
coincides with the direction that connects the interlayer next-nearest
(NN) Eu atoms because of the body-centered Eu sublattice. To clarify
whether the Eu-sublattice type is relevant to Eu spin orientations, it
is desirable to study a related material system in which Eu atoms form a
primitive tetragonal lattice.

Local-moment FM and spin-singlet SC are known to be mutually
incompatible [21, 22, 23], which makes their coexistence (hereafter
abbreviated as FM+SC) very rare [24]. The FM+SC phenomenon observed in
FeSCs has been ascribed to the multiorbital character as well as the
robustness of superconductivity against magnetic fields [10, 25]. On one
hand, the zero-temperature upper critical magnetic field,
$H_{\rm c2}$(0), of FeSCs is typically higher than 50 T [26, 27], large
enough to fight the internal exchange field, which is comparable to the
hyperfine field on the Eu nucleus (∼25 T) [2]. On the other hand, the
Eu-spin FM can be satisfied even in the presence of SC, because the
Fe-3d multiorbitals enable both superconducting pairing (dominated by
the d_(xz) and d_(zx) electrons [28]) and the
Ruderman-Kittel-Kasuya-Yosida (RKKY) exchange interaction between Eu
local moments. The RKKY interaction can be mediated by different Fe-3d
orbitals such as d_(x² − y²) and d_(z²)[29]. Therefore both SC and
local-moment FM can be favored in FeSCs [25].

The crucial factor that leads to Eu local-moment FM should be the
interlayer RKKY interaction, since the in-plane RKKY coupling remains
ferromagnetic even in the parent compound EuFe₂As₂. The interlayer
exchange coupling ($J_{\rm R}^{\perp}$) is simplified to be proportional
to $\cos(2k_{\rm F}r)/r^{3}$ for a large r, where $k_{\rm F}$ is the
Fermi wave vector and r denotes the distance between local moments. This
means that $J_{\rm R}^{\perp}$ can be changed from negative (AFM) to
positive (FM) by tuning the $k_{\rm F}r$ value. The AFM-to-FM transition
in EuFe₂(As_(1 − x)P_(x))₂[10] and Eu(Fe_(1 − x)Ni_(x))₂As₂[29] is
mainly due to the change in $k_{\rm F}$ (where the heavy
three-dimensional hole pocket [30] seems to be involved), simply because
the interlayer Eu interatomic distance (_r_⊥) varies only slightly.
Indeed, based on a first-principles calculation [31], the effective
interlayer NN magnetic coupling changes from antiferromagnetic in
EuFe₂As₂ to ferromagnetic in EuFe₂P₂, while the in-plane coupling
remains ferromagnetic.

The above statement suggests an alternative approach to realize the
AFM-to-FM transition, which may lead to an FM+SC state as well. By
constructing a crystal structure in which _r_⊥ changes significantly,
the sign of _J__(R)^(⊥) may be altered accordingly. We previously
designed a related structure, exemplified as KLaFe₄As₄ (1144) [32],
which can be viewed as an intergrowth of KFe₂As₂ and LaFe₂As₂. In the Eu
analog, _Ak_EuFe₄As₄ (_Ak_ denotes an alkali metal), the Eu atoms form a
_primitive_ tetragonal lattice, such that the lines that connect the
interlayer-NN Eu atoms are exactly parallel to the c axis. Notably, the
_r_⊥ value is roughly doubled because every alternate Eu atoms are
replaced by _Ak_ along the c axis.

Very recently, we became aware of the report of _Ak_AFe₄As₄ (_Ae_= Ca,
Sr, and Ba) superconductors, which possess the identical 1144-type
structure [33]. This work inspires us to reinvestigate our target
material _Ak_EuFe₄As₄. Consequently, we succeeded in synthesizing a 1144
compound RbEuFe₄As₄. In this paper, we report the crystal structure and
physical properties of this new material. We indeed observe an Eu-spin
FM at 15 K, which coexists with a bulk SC at an unexpectedly high
_T__(sc) of 36.5 K. Remarkably, the evidence for FM+SC is very robust,
compared to the previous FM+SC phenomena in doped EuFe₂As₂ systems [1,
11, 13, 14]. Apart from FM+SC, additional intriguing phenomena were also
observed and discussed.

## II Experimental Methods

RbEuFe₄As₄ polycrystalline samples were prepared via a solid-state
reaction method. First, FeAs, EuAs, and RbAs were prepared using the
following source materials: Rb (99.75

Powder x-ray diffraction (XRD) was carried out on a PANalytical x-ray
diffractometer with a monochromatic Cu-K_(a1) radiation. The crystal
structure was refined by a Rietveld analysis using a rietan software
[34]. The electrical transport and heat capacity measurements were
conducted on a Quantum Design physical property measurement system
(PPMS-9). In the resistivity measurement, a four-electrode method and
the ac transport option were employed. The sample pellet was cut into a
thin rectangular bar with a dimension of 2.2 x 1.1 x 0.5 mm³, on which
thin gold wires were attached with silver paint. The excitation current
was set to 5.18 mA. The Hall coefficient was measured by permutating the
voltage and current electrodes [35], using a thin-square sample (1.3 x
1.3 x 0.12 mm³) with four symmetric electrodes attached. The excitation
current was 20 mA, and the applied magnetic field was 80 kOe. The heat
capacity was measured by a thermal relaxation method using a
square-shaped sample plate with a mass of 19.5 mg. The dc magnetization
for a regular shape sample (in order to estimate the demagnetization
factor) was measured on a Quantum Design MPMS-5 equipment. Different
kinds of protocols of zero-field cooling (ZFC) and field-cooling (FC)
were employed for probing the superconducting and magnetic transitions.

## III Results and Discussion

### Crystal structure

The as-prepared sample was characterized by powder XRD. The result shows
that most of the reflections can be indexed using a tetragonal lattice,
whose unit-cell size (_a_∼ 3.89 A and _c_∼ 13.31 A) is close to other
1144-type compounds [33]. The intensity of the strongest reflection of
the impurity phase, which is identified to be unreacted FeAs, is only
2.5

Figure 1 shows the Rietveld refinement profile for the powder XRD data
of RbEuFe₄As₄. The refinement yields a weighted reliable factor _R__(wp)
of 5.21

Figure 1: Rietveld refinement profile for the powder x-ray diffraction
of RbEuFe₄As₄ whose crystal structure is displayed in the inset. The
relatively strong reflections in low diffraction angles are indexed.

asymmetric. According to the refined structural parameters listed in
Table 1, the Fe-As bond lengths are no longer equal. Consequently, As1
(at Rb side) and As2 (at Eu side) heights from the Fe plane are
remarkably different (1.300 and 1.386 A, respectively). Meanwhile, the
bond angles As1-Fe-As1 and As2-Fe-As2 are 112.50^(∘) and 109.04^(∘),
respectively. Note that the As relative heights as well as the bond
angles are opposite to the result in RbCaFe₄As₄[33]. This suggests that
the Fe-coordination asymmetry does not interfere with the occurrence of
SC, although it could influence the superconducting pairing symmetry.

Comparison of the lattice parameters of RbEuFe₄As₄ with those of
EuFe₂As₂ and RbFe₂As₂ hints the existence of "interaction" between the
two building blocks. The a axis is 0.009(2) A smaller than the average
of those of EuFe₂As₂[5] and RbFe₂As₂[36], meanwhile, the c axis is
0.024(5) A smaller than half of the sum of those of EuFe₂As₂ and
RbFe₂As₂. This lattice shrinkage suggests stabilization of the hybrid
1144 phase. The interaction of the two building units is also manifested
by the shortening of the "RbFe₂As₂" block (from 7.267 to 7.052 A) and
the stretching of the "EuFe₂As₂" block (from 6.068 to 6.259 A). This
structural variation seems to be associated with the charge
redistribution, since the Fe formal valence in RbEuFe₄As₄ has to be
averaged to 2.25+ instead of being either 2+ in EuFe₂As₂ or 2.5+ in
RbFe₂As₂. The elongation of the "EuFe₂As₂" block suggests weakening of
the effective coupling between Eu-4f spins and Fe-3d itinerant electrons
in RbEuFe₄As₄.

### Electrical transport properties

Figure 2 shows electrical transport measurement results for the
RbEuFe₄As₄ polycrystalline sample. The resistivity ρ(T) exhibits a
metallic behavior with a broad hump around 180 K, a common feature of
hole-doped FeSCs [33, 37, 38]. As expected, the conduction is dominated
by a hole-carrier transport, which is verified by the positive Hall
coefficient ($R_{\rm H}$) in the whole temperature range of the normal
state. The $R_{\rm H}$ values appear to be extremely low (equivalent to
a hole content of n ∼ 1.0 holes/Fe using the simple formula
$n=1/(e\,R_{\rm H})$ for a single-band case), which indicates a
multiband scenario (the electron-hole compensation effect accounts for
the low $R_{\rm H}$) [38]. A sharp superconducting transition appears at
36.5 K, and zero resistance is achieved at 36 K (note that the
transition temperature in $R_{\rm H}(T)$ is decreased because it was
measured under an 80-kOe magnetic field). This $T_{\rm sc}$ value is the
highest among all the doped EuFe₂As₂ superconductors [1, 13, 14, 39].
Furthermore, no re-entrance superconductivity can be observed, in
contrast to the case in the EuFe₂As₂-related ferromagnetic
superconductors where nonzero resistance often re-enters the
superconducting state [1, 12, 13, 14].

Under external magnetic fields, the superconducting transitions shift
mildly to lower temperatures, as shown in Fig. 2(b). From these data,
the upper critical fields, $H_{\rm c2}(T)$, can be obtained by defining
the transition temperature $T_{\rm sc}(H)$ at which the resistivity
drops to 90

### Magnetic properties

Figure 3 shows the dc magnetic susceptibility measured under low
magnetic fields using FC and ZFC protocols, respectively. Consistent
with the resistivity measurement above, a superconducting onset
transition occurs at $T_{\rm sc}^{\rm onset}=36.5$ K. The volume
fraction of magnetic shielding, measured in a ZFC process, is almost 100

Figure 2: (a) Temperature dependence of resistivity (left axis) and Hall
coefficient (right axis) of the RbEuFe₄As₄ polycrystalline sample. The
inset zooms in the superconducting transition under zero field. (b) The
superconducting resistive transitions under increased external magnetic
fields. (c) Plot of the upper critical field as a function of
temperature, derived from the data shown in (b). The dashed line is the
linear fit.

making a demagnetization correction. The volume fraction of magnetic
repulsion (also called Meissner volume fraction), scaled by the drop in
4π$\chi_{\rm FC}$ in a FC process, is reduced to 16

Interestingly, there is an anomaly at around 15 K in the superconducting
state, featured by a sign change in $\chi_{\rm FC}$ at H = 10 Oe. At
first sight, this behavior resembles the ac magnetic susceptibility
($\chi_{\rm ac}$) curve of the classical reentrant superconductor
ErRh₄B₄ in which SC _disappears_ when the Er magnetic long-range order
sets in (Ref. [40]). As a matter of fact, however, $\chi_{\rm ac}$ is
equivalent to $\chi_{\rm ZFC}$ rather than $\chi_{\rm FC}$. The
$\chi_{\rm ZFC}$ value of RbEuFe₄As₄ remains diamagnetic (in contrast
with the positive $\chi_{\rm ac}$ in ErRh₄B₄) in the region where
$\chi_{\rm FC}$ becomes positive, indicating SC survives at low
temperatures. When the applied field is increased to 30 Oe, the
$\chi_{\rm FC}$ value is enhanced, remarkably, suggesting that it is
possibly associated with ferromagnetism rather than paramagnetism.
Additionally, there is a minor kink at T^(*) ∼ 5 K in both FC and ZFC
data, which can be seen in the magnified plot shown in the inset of Fig.
3. The bifurcation of FCC (measured in the cooling process) and FCH
(measured in the heating process) can also be seen at T > 5 K. We will
discuss the possible implications later on.

In order to further identify the 15-K transition under the
superconducting state, we performed isothermal magnetization [M(H)]
measurements. As shown in Fig. 4, the M(H) data are essentially linear
at $T>T_{\rm sc}$, indicating a simple paramagnetic state. When the
temperature is decreased to 30 K, which is below $T_{\rm sc}$ but well
above 15 K, a typical superconducting loop is superposed on the
paramagnetic background. At T = 20 K, which is close to the magnetic
transition temperature, the paramagnetic component of the M(H) curve
takes the shape of a Brillouin function. Below 15 K, the overall M(H)
loop looks like that of a ferromagnet, but the magnetization curves do
not merge together at fields higher than the saturation one (about 1.5
kOe). This is due to the existence of SC, which shows a flux-pinning
effect as mentioned above. Note that the saturation magnetization at 2 K
achieves 6.5$\mu_{\rm B}$/Eu, basically consistent with the expected
value of $gS=7.0\mu_{\rm B}$/Eu for the Eu²⁺-spin ferromagnetic
alignment. The above results undoubtedly indicate an Eu-spin FM at
$T_{\rm Curie}=15$ K for RbEuFe₄As₄, although the spin orientation is
not clear. The robust ferromagnetic properties contrast with those of
the previous ferromagnetic superconductor EuFe₂(As_(0.7)P_(0.3))₂, which
shows a much lower coersife field (20 Oe at 2 K) [1] and a much higher
saturation field (∼7 kOe)[10].

Figure 5 plots the magnetic susceptibility M/H (left axis) and its
reciprocal (right axis) of RbEuFe₄As₄ as functions of temperature. The
M/H data exhibit a linear dependence in the high-T region, indicating
dominant Curie-Weiss paramagnetism. We thus fit the data from 50 to 300
K by an extended Curie’s law, χ = χ₀ + C/(T − θ), which yields
χ₀ = 0.00178 emu mol⁻¹, C = 7.91 emu K mol⁻¹, and θ = 23.6 K. If one
assumes that χ₀ is mostly contributed from Pauli paramagnetism, a
density of state at Fermi level [$N(E_{\rm F})$] can be estimated to be
55 eV⁻¹ f⁻¹, which is unusually large. From the Curie constant C, an
effective local moment of $\mu_{\rm eff}=7.95\mu_{\rm B}$ f⁻¹ (fu
denotes formula unit) is obtained, which is almost equal to the expected
value of $g\sqrt{S(S+1)}=7.94$ ($\mu_{\rm B}$) for an Eu²⁺ spin. The
paramagnetic Curie temperature θ is positive, indicating dominant
ferromagnetic interactions among the Eu spins. Indeed, in the low-T data
shown in the inset of Fig. 5, a

Figure 4: Isothermal magnetization of RbEuFe₄As₄ at several
representative temperatures. The top-left inset zooms in the data in the
low-field region for T = 20, 30, and 40 K.

Figure 3: Magnetic susceptibility of the RbEuFe₄As₄ polycrystalline
sample under low magnetic fields in field-cooling (FC) and
zero-field-cooling (ZFC) modes, respectively. The superconducting
transition at $T_{\rm sc}^{\rm onset}=36.5$ K and the magnetic
transition at $T_{\rm Curie}=15$ K are marked by arrows, respectively.
The inset magnifies low-temperature data from which a minor anomaly at
T^(*) = 5 K can be distinguished. Right axis: FC data measured in
cooling (FCC) and heating (FCH) processes; left axis: ZFC data.

canonical ferromagnetic transition can be seen. The transition
temperature can be estimated by the dip in d M/d T[12], which is about 2
K higher than the T_(Curie) value at H = 10 Oe.

### Specific heat

To further characterize the superconducting and magnetic transitions, we
conducted heat capacity measurements for RbEuFe₄As₄. From the raw C(T)
data shown in Fig. 6(a), two anomalies at T_(Curie) = 15 K and
T_(sc) = 36.5 K can be identified, respectively, verifying the
ferromagnetic and superconducting transitions demonstrated above. The
inset shows the superconducting transition more clearly. The
thermodynamic transition temperature, determined by entropy-conserving
construction, is 36.0 K, coincident with the zero-resistance
temperature. Impressively, the specific-heat jump ΔC is as high as 7.5 J
K⁻¹ mol⁻¹, which further confirms bulk SC in RbEuFe₄As₄. The ΔC/T_(sc)
value achieves 208 mJ K⁻² mol⁻¹. Thus the electronic specific-heat
coefficient γ can be estimated to be 145 mJ K⁻² mol⁻¹ by assuming
ΔC/(γT_(sc)) = 1.43 in the BCS weak-coupling scenario. A similarly large
γ value of ∼150 mJ K⁻² mol⁻¹ can be _independently_ estimated by the
enhanced room-temperature specific heat, which is 46 J K⁻¹ mol⁻¹ larger
than the Dulong-Petit limit 3N R (N = 10, being the number of atoms in a
formula unit). Therefore the real γ value should be around 150 mJ K⁻²
mol⁻¹, equivalent to 38 mJ K⁻² mol⁻¹Fe⁻¹. Such an enhanced γ is often
observed in hole-doped FeSCs [41]. Notably, the estimated γ value
corresponds to N(E_(F)) ≈ 60 eV⁻¹ fu⁻¹, consistent with the value
derived from the magnetic measurement. Namely, the Wilson ratio is about
unity albeit of an enhanced N(E_(F)).

Figure 6(b) shows the variations in C(T) under a magnetic field of 8 T.
First, the superconducting transition temperature decreases slightly to
35.4 K, consistent with the result of the magneto-resistivity
measurement above. Second, the anomaly at T_(Curie) is smeared out by
the field. In addition, a minor anomaly at T^(*) ∼ 5 K, which can be
seen more easily in Figs. 6(c) and 6(d), tends to disappear as well.
Third, the external field induces a C(T)-weight transfer from lower to
higher temperatures. At T < 20 K, C(T) is suppressed by the field; while
in the temperature range of 22 K  < T < 100 K, C(T) is enhanced
substantially. The field-induced change in C(T) has to be ascribed to
the Eu-spin magnetism, because electronic and phonon specific heat
(C_(el) and C_(L)) generally do not change with magnetic fields. The
external fields force the Eu spins along the field direction, which
severely broadens the phase transition, making the C(T) weight shifts to
higher temperatures consequently. Similar effect is also observed in
EuFe₂(As_(0.7)P_(0.3)) [1].

The C(T)-weight transfer under different magnetic fields is explicitly
shown in the C/T plot shown in Fig. 6(c). Besides, an upward shift of
T_(Curie) can also be seen, further supporting the ferromagnetic
transition. At T^(*) ∼ 5 K, the zero-field C/T curve exhibits a tiny
jump, which also changes with magnetic fields. Under a high field, the
jump turns into a shoulder that moves to higher temperatures with
increasing field. This sensitive response to magnetic fields suggests
that it should be an intrinsic phenomenon. We will return to this topic
in the Discussion section.

Shown in the inset of Fig. 6(c) is the C/T versus T² plot for the low-T
data. As is known, the expected C/T value at T → 0 K is zero for a fully
gapped superconductor, which increases linearly with magnetic fields.
However, the situation here is apparently abnormal: the zero-field C/T
value is as large as 573 mJ K⁻² mol⁻¹ at 2 K, which is then suppressed
to 86 mJ K⁻² mol⁻¹ at 8 T. This result suggests that the Eu-spin
magnetic contribution (C_(Eu)) remains dominant around 2 K. Future
measurements down to lower temperatures are expected to reveal the
Eu-spin wave excitations as well as the quasiparticle excitations from
the superconducting state.

Intriguingly, the specific-heat anomaly at T_(Curie) is very different
from those of most magnetic orderings (such as those in EuFe₂As₂[5] and
EuFe₂(As_(0.7)P_(0.3))₂[1]), which show a clear jump because of a
second-order transition. In the present case for RbEuFe₄As₄, however, it
simply shows a kink instead. We thus plot the derivative of specific
heat, as shown in Fig. 6(d). An obvious jump at T_(Curie) can be seen in
the zero-field dC/dT data. The result suggests that the magnetic
transition is of a rare third-order type, according to the Ehrenfest
classification [42]. To the best of our knowledge, no third-order
magnetic transition has been reported in a real material before. As we
know, most magnetic ordering transitions are described by Landau’s
second-order phase transition theory. Therefore, the observation of
third-order magnetic transition deserves further investigations.

### Discussion

RbFe₂As₂ is known to be a 2.6 K superconductor [43], while EuFe₂As₂
belongs to a parent compound of FeSCs [5]. Here we show that,
interestingly, their hybrid material RbEuFe₄As₄ turns out to be a
ferromagnetic superconductor. Similar material hybridization effect in
FeSCs is witnessed in Ba₂Ti₂Fe₂As₄O [44], which is actually an
intergrowth of nonsuperconducting BaTi₂As₂O and BaFe₂As₂

Figure 5: Magnetic susceptibility (M/H) of RbEuFe₄As₄ measured under
H = 1 kOe. The data from 50 to 300 K are fitted by the extended Curie
law. The reciprocal of susceptibility (H/M) is shown using the right
axis. The inset shows the temperature dependence of the magnetization in
the low-T region, in which a canonical ferromagnetic transition can be
seen. The T_(Curie) value can be estimated from the derivative of the
magnetization (right axis).

Ba₂Ti₂Fe₂As₄O shows SC at 21 K owing to a charge transfer between
different layers, in relation with an electron-correlation effect [45].
Here in RbEuFe₄As₄, the isolated "RbFe₂As₂" block is heavily hole doped,
in contrast with the undoped state in the "EuFe₂As₂" block.
Consequently, the structural hybridization leads to a charge
homogenization, since there is only one equivalent Fe site. Namely,
RbEuFe₄As₄ is naturally hole doped by 25

Notably, the $T_{\rm sc}$ value of RbEuFe₄As₄ is unexpectedly high,
which is nearly equal to the maximum $T_{\rm sc}$ of 36.8 K for
CsSrFe₄As₄ in the _AK_${}_{\rm c}$Fe₄As₄ series [33]. Previous studies
on doped EuFe₄As₂ superconductors show that the $T_{\rm sc}$ is always
significantly lower than the Eu-free counterparts, which is ascribed to
the Eu4 f-Fe3d interaction. Therefore the unsuppressed $T_{\rm sc}$ in
RbEuFe₄As₄ suggests vanishingly small Eu4 f-Fe3d_(yz/zx) coupling. The
elongation of Eu − Fe interatomic distance from 3.604 A in EuFe₂As₂ to
3.685 A in RbEuFe₄As₄ supports this point of view. In addition, the high
value of $\mu_{0}d\,H_{2}/dT|_{T_{\rm sc}}$ (−5.6 T/K) as well as the
large specific-heat jump (7.5 J K⁻¹ mol⁻¹) further indicates robustness
of SC in RbEuFe₄As₄.

In addition to the robust SC, evidence of Eu FM is also strong and
sufficient. The M(H) data show an obvious magnetic hysteresis (with a
coersive field of 360 Oe at 2 K) as well as a saturation magnetization
(6.5$\mu_{\rm B}$/Eu) that corresponds to Eu²⁺-spin ferromagnetic
alignment. Besides, both the positive paramagnetic Curie temperature and
the increase of $T_{\rm Curie}$ with magnetic field support the
ferromagnetic transition scenario. Hopefully, future measurements of the
anisotropic magnetic properties using single crystal samples will give
more information on the magnetic state. Needless to say, investigations
of the Mossbauer spectra, x-ray resonant

Figure 6: Heat capacity measurements for RbEuFe₄As₄. The characteristic
temperatures of superconducting transition ($T_{\rm sc}$), ferromagnetic
transition ($T_{\rm Curie}$), and an unknown possible transition (T^(*))
are indicated by arrows, respectively. (a) Raw data of the specific
heat, C(T), at zero field. The inset zooms in the superconducting
transition where a large specific-heat jump is determined. Panel (b)
compares the C(T) data at zero field and at 8 T. The inset magnifies the
plot below 8 K, from which an anomaly can be distinguished at zero
field. Panel(c) plots C/T vs T under various magnetic fields. The
inserted plot shows C/T vs T² for the low-T data. (d) shows the
derivative of specific heat (the data under fields are shifted downward
for clarity).

magnetic scattering and neutron scattering will be definitely helpful to
clarity the Eu-spin orientation and other related information.

The appearance of Eu FM in RbEuFe₄As₄ can be explained in terms of
modification of J_(R)^(⊥), since J_(R)^(⊥) [ ∝ cos (2k_(F))/r³]
_oscillates_ and tends to decay with r_(⊥). In RbEuFe₄As₄, the
interlayer Eu interatomic distance r_(⊥) becomes 13.31 A, which is
almost twice as the r_(⊥) value in EuFe₂As₂ (6.657 A). This may change
the sign of J_(R)^(⊥), resulting in an Eu FM. The lowered Curie
temperature [about 4 K lower than that of EuFe₂(As_(0.7)P_(0.3))₂] seems
to be associated with the decay of J_(R)^(⊥). The weak interlayer
magnetic coupling not only accounts for the relatively low Curie
temperature, but also justifies the robustness of SC. Additionally, it
could be related to the third-order transition observed, because of the
enhanced two dimensionality which allows strong magnetic fluctuations
above T_(Curie).

Finally, let us discuss how SC and FM compromise in RbEuFe₄As₄. There
were a few theoretical proposals available on the FM+SC issue decades
ago [46, 47, 48, 49, 50]. The first solution is that FM is modified in
the form of a "cryptoferromagnetic" state or a multidomain structure
(with domain size d), hence the superconducting Cooper pairs feel no net
magnetization if the superconducting coherent length satisfies
ξ ≫ d[46]. The second idea considers that superconducting Cooper pairs
are "magnetized" by the exchange fields, such that they possess nonzero
momentum [47], or equivalently, SC is modulated to be inhomogeneous in
real space [48]. This scenario is often called
Fulde-Ferrell-Larkin-Ovchinnikov (FFLO) state. Alternatively, the
internal spontaneous magnetization field from FM penetrates the
superconductor, which induces "spontaneous vortices" even at zero
external field, hence called spontaneous vortex (SV) state [49, 50].
Since nonsuperconducting defects tend to trap spontaneous vortices, the
FFLO state is believed to be possible only in a clean-limit
superconductor. As for the RbEuFe₄As₄ system, the first candidate seems
to be unlikely, because the estimated coherence length at zero
temperature is only 1.52 nm [51], which constrains the ferromagnetic
domain size too much to present a long-range order. Note that the
residual resistivity tends to be very small by a rough extrapolation
(see Fig. 2) even for the polycrystalline sample, which means a quite
long electron mean free path and, the flux-pinning effect is not severe
from the FC diamagnetic signal (see Fig. 3). These facts suggest that
the superconductor is probably in a clean limit at lower temperatures.
We thus speculate that the anomaly at T^(*)∼ 5 K could be related to the
change in the way of FM+SC. There are indeed some signatures. The
bifurcation of FCC and FCH curves above T^(*), shown in Fig. 3, implies
the transformation from FFLO to SV state. The small specific-heat jump
at T^(*) [Fig. 6(c)] suggests a weak phase transition. In addition,
T^(*) increases with field. Obviously, more investigations are needed to
address this interesting issue.

## IV Conclusion

To summarize, we have discovered an iron-based compound RbEuFe₄As₄ in
which an unprecedented coexistence of SC and FM is observed. The new
material crystallizes in an intergrowth structure of body-centered
RbFe₂As₂ and EuFe₂As₂, which drastically changes the physical
properties. The FeAs layers are found to be hole doped by the material
itself, presenting a large normal-state electronic specific-heat
coefficient (∼150 mJ K⁻² mol⁻¹) and a Pauli spin susceptibility
(∼0.00178 emu mol⁻¹). Bulk superconductivity at T_(sc) = 36.5 K and
Eu-spin ferromagnetism at 15 K are unambiguously demonstrated. The
specific-heat jump at T_(sc) is as high as 7.5 J K⁻¹ mol⁻¹. The Eu-spin
ferromagnetism is manifested by a magnetic hysteresis with a 360-Oe
coercive field at 2 K, a saturation magnetization of 6.5μ_(B)/Eu, and a
saturation field of ∼1.5 kOe at low temperatures.

There are two additional novel phenomena observed in RbEuFe₄As₄. First,
the Eu-spin ferromagnetic transition is of a rare third order, evidenced
by the continuity in C(T) and discontinuity in dC/dT at T_(Curie).
Second, a weak anomaly at about 5 K possibly reflects the interplay
between SC and FM. These intriguing observations together with the
robust coexistence of SC and FM call for further investigations on the
interesting title material.

## Acknowledgments

This work was supported by the National Science Foundation of China
(under Grants No. 11474252, No. 90922002, and No. 11190023) and the
Fundamental Research Funds for the Central Universities of China.

## References

* [1] Z. Ren, Q. Tao, S. Jiang, C. Feng, C. Wang, J. Dai, G. Cao, and Z.
Xu, Superconductivity Induced by Phosphorus Doping and Its Coexistence
with Ferromagnetism in EuFe₂(As_(0.7)P_(0.3))₂, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**102**, 137002 (2009). * [2] I. Nowik, I. Felner, Z. Ren, G. H. Cao,
and Z. A. Xu, Coexistence of ferromagnetism and superconductivity:
Magnetization and Mossbauer studies of EuFe₂(As_(1 − x)P_(x))₂, J.
Phys.: Condens. Matt. **23**, 065701 (2011). * [3] S. Nandi, W. T. Jin,
Y. Xiao, Y. Su, S. Price, D. K. Shukla, J. Strempfer, H. S. Jeevan, P.
Gegenwart, and T. Bruckel, Coexistence of superconductivity and
ferromagnetism in P-doped EuFe₂As₂, Phys. Rev. B **89**, 014512
(2014). * [4] S. Nandi, W. T. Jin, Y. Xiao, Y. Su, S. Price, W. Schmidt,
K. Schmalzl, T. Chatterji, H. S. Jeevan, P. Gegenwart, and T. Bruckel,
Magnetic structure of the Eu²⁺ moments in superconducting
EuFe₂(As_(1 − x)P_(x))₂ with x = 0.19, Phys. Rev. B **90**, 094407
(2014). * [5] Z. Ren, Z. Zhu, S. Jiang, X. Xu, Q. Tao, C. Wang, C. Feng,
G. Cao, and Z. Xu, Antiferromagnetic transition in EuFe₂As₂: A possible
parent compound for superconductors, Phys. Rev. B **78**, 052501
(2008). * [6] H. S. Jeevan, Z. Hossain, D. Kasinathan, H. Rosner, C.
Geibel, and P. Gegenwart, Electrical resistivity and specific heat of
single-crystalline EuFe₂As₂: A magnetic homologue of SrFe₂As₂, Phys.
Rev. B **78**, 052502 (2008). * [7] S. Jiang, Y. Luo, Z. Ren, Z. Zhu, C.
Wang, X. Xu, Q. Tao, G. Cao, and Z. Xu, Metamagnetic transition in
EuFe₂As₂ single crystals, New J. Phys. **11**, 025007 (2009). * [8] J.
Herrero-Martin, V. Scagnoli, C. Mazzoli, Y. Su, R. Mittal, Y. Xiao, T.
Brueckel, N. Kumar, S. K. Dhar, A. Thamizhavel, and L. Paolasini,
Magnetic structure of EuFe₂As₂ as determined by resonant x-ray
scattering, Phys. Rev. B **80**, 134411 (2009). * [9] Y. Xiao, Y. Su, M.
Meven, R. Mittal, C. M. N. Kumar, T. Chatterji, S. Price, J. Persson, N.
Kumar, S. K. Dhar, A. Thamizhavel, and T. Brueckel, Magnetic structure
of EuFe₂As₂ determined by single-crystal neutron diffraction, Phys. Rev.
B **80**, 174424 (2009). * [10] G. Cao, S. Xu, Z. Ren, S. Jiang, C.
Feng, and Z. Xu, Superconductivity and ferromagnetism in
EuFe₂(As_(1 − x)P_(x))₂, J. Phys.: Condens. Matt. **23**, 464204
(2011). * [11] H. S. Jeevan, D. Kasimathan, H. Rosner, and P. Gegenwart,
Interplay of antiferromagnetism, ferromagnetism, and superconductivity
in EuFe₂(As_(1 − x)P_(x))₂ single crystals, Phys. Rev. B **83**, 054511
(2011). * [12] S. Jiang, H. Xing, G. Xuan, Z. Ren, C. Wang, Z.-a. Xu,
and G. Cao, Superconductivity and local-moment magnetism in
Eu(Fe_(0.88)Co_(0.11))₂As₂, Phys. Rev. B **80**, 184514 (2009). * [13]
W.-H. Jiao, Q. Tao, J.-K. Bao, Y.-L. Sun, C.-M. Feng, Z.-A. Xu, I.
Nowik, I. Felner, and G.-H. Cao, Anisotropic superconductivity in
EuFe_(0.52)Ru_(0.25))₂As₂ ferromagnetic superconductor, Europhys. Lett.
**95**, 67007 (2011). * [14] W.-H. Jiao, H.-F. Zhai, J.-K. Bao, Y.-K.
Luo, Q. Tao, C.-M. Feng, Z.-A. Xu, and G.-H. Cao, Anomalous critical
fields and the absence of Meissner state in Eu(Fe_(0.88)Ir_(0.12))₂As₂
crystals, New J. Phys. **15**, 113002 (2013). * [15] W. T. Jin, S.
Nandi, Y. Xiao, Y. Su, O. Zaharko, Z. Guguchia, Z. Bukowski, S. Price,
W. H. Jiao, G. H. Cao, and T. Bruckel, Magnetic structure of
superconducting Eu(Fe_(0.82)Co_(0.18))₂As₂ as revealed by single-crystal
neutron diffraction, Phys. Rev. B **88**, 214516 (2013). * [16] W. T.
Jin, W. Li, Y. Su, S. Nandi, Y. Xiao, W. H. Jiao, M. Meven, A. P.
Sazonov, E. Feng, Y. Chen, C. S. Ting, G. H. Cao, and T. Bruckel,
Magnetic ground state of superconducting Eu(Fe_(0.88)Ir_(0.12))₂As₂: A
combined neutron diffraction and first-principles calculation study,
Phys. Rev. B **91**, 064506 (2015). * [17] Y. Tokiwa, S.-H. Hubner, O.
Beck, H. S. Jeevan, and P. Gegenwart, Unique phase diagram with narrow
superconducting dome in EuFe₂(As_(1 − x)P_(x))₂ due to Eu²⁺ local
magnetic moments, Phys. Rev. B **86**, 220505 (2012). * [18] S. Zapf, D.
Wu, L. Bogani, H. S. Jeevan, P. Gegenwart, and M. Dressel, Varying Eu²⁺
magnetic order by chemical pressure in EuFe₂(As_(1 − x)P_(x))₂, Phys.
Rev. B **84**, 140503 (2011). * [19] S. Zapf, H. S. Jeevan, T. Ivek, F.
Pfister, F. Klingert, S. Jiang, D. Wu, P. Gegenwart, R. K. Kremer, and
M. Dressel, EuFe₂(As_(1 − x)P_(x))₂: Reentrant Spin Glass and
Superconductivity, Phys. Rev. Lett. **110**, 237002 (2013). * [20] A.
Blachowski, K. Ruebenbauer, J. Zukrowski, Z. Bukowski, K. Rogacki, P. J.
W. Moll, and J. Karpinski, Interplay between magnetism and
superconductivity in EuFe_(2 − x)Co_(x)As₂ studied by ⁵⁷Fe and ¹⁵¹Eu
Mossbauer spectroscopy, Phys. Rev. B **84**, 174503 (2011). * [21] V. L.
Ginzburg, Ferromagnetic superconductors, Sov. Phys. JETP-USSR **4**, 153
(1957). * theoretical predictions and experimental results, Adv. Phys.
**34**, 175 (1985). * [23] C. Wolowiec, B. White, and M. Maple,
Conventional magnetic superconductors, Physica C **514**, 113 (2015). *
[24] Note that spin-triplet superconductivity may coexist with itinerant
ferromagnetism in some U-containing materials. The related information
can be seen in a recent review article [A. D. Huxley, Ferromagnetic
superconductors, Physica C **514**, 368 (2015)]. * [25] G.-H. Cao, W.-H.
Jiao, Y.-K. Luo, Z. Ren, S. Jiang, and Z.-A. Xu, Coexistence of
superconductivity and ferromagnetism in iron pnictides, J. Phys.: Conf.
Ser. **391**, 012123 (2012). * [26] D. C. Johnston, The puzzle of
high-temperature superconductivity in layered iron pnictides and
chalcogenides, Adv. Phys. **59**, 803 (2010). * [27] G. R. Stewart,
Superconductivity in iron compounds, Rev. Mod. Phys. **83**, 1589
(2011). * [28] S. Raghu, X.-L. Qi, C.-X. Liu, D. J. Scalapino, and S.-C.
Zhang, Minimal two-band model of the superconducting iron oxypnictides,
Phys. Rev. B **77**, 220503 (2008). * [29] Z. Ren, X. Lin, Q. Tao, S.
Jiang, Z. Zhu, C. Wang, G. Cao, and Z. Xu, Suppression of
spin-density-wave transition and emergence of ferromagnetic ordering of
Eu²⁺ moments in EuFe_(2 − x)Ni_(x)As₂, Phys. Rev. B **79**, 094426
(2009). * [30] D. J. Singh and M.-H. Du, Density Functional Study of
LaFeAsO_(1 − x)F_(x): A Low Carrier Density Superconductor Near
Itinerant Magnetism, Phys. Rev. Lett. **100**, 237003 (2008). * [31] W.
Li, J.-X. Zhu, Y. Chen, and C. S. Ting, First-principles calculations of
the electronic structure of iron-pnictide EuFe₂(As_(x)P₂
superconductors: Evidence for antiferromagnetic spin order, Phys. Rev. B
**86**, 155119 (2012). * [32] H. Jiang, Y.-L. Sun, Z.-A. Xu, and G.-H.
Cao, Crystal chemistry and structural design of iron-based
superconductors, Chin. Phys. B **22**, 087410 (2013). * [33] A. Iyo, K.
Kawashima, T. Kinjo, T. Nishio, S. Ishida, H. Fujihisa, Y. Gotoh, K.
Kihou, H. Eisaki, and Y. Yoshida, New-structure-type fe-based
superconductors: CaAF₄As₄ (A = K, Rb, Cs) and SrAF₄As₄ (A = Rb, Cs), J.
Am. Chem. Soc. **138**, 3410 (2016). * [34] F. Izumi and K. Momma,
Three-dimensional visualization in powder diffraction, in _Applied
Crystallography XX_, edited by D. Stroz and M. Karolus, Solid State
Phenomena Vol. 130 (Elsevier, North Holland, 2007), pp. 15-20. * [35] H.
H. Sample, W. J. Bruno, S. B. Sample, and E. K. Sichel, Reverse-field
reciprocity for conducting specimens in magnetic fields, J. Appl. Phys.
**61**, 1079 (1987). * [36] P. Wenz and H. U. Schuster, New ternary
intermetallic phases of potassium and rubidium with BB-elements and
5B-elements, Z. Nat. Sect. B **39**, 1816 (1984). * [37] M. Rotter, M.
Tegel, and D. Johrendt, Superconductivity at 38 K in the Iron Arsenide
(Ba_(1 − x)K_(x))Fe₂As₂, Phys. Rev. Lett. **101**, 107006 (2008). * [38]
B. Shen, H. Yang, Z.-S. Wang, F. Han, B. Zeng, L. Shan, C. Ren, and
H.-H. Wen, Transport properties and asymmetric scattering in
Ba_(1 − x)K_(x)Fe₂As₂ single crystals, Phys. Rev. B **84**, 184512
(2011).

* [39] H. S. Jeevan, Z. Hossain, D. Kasinathan, H. Rosner, C. Geibel,
and P. Gegenwart, High-temperature superconductivity in
Eu_(0.5)K_(0.5)Fe₂As₂, Phys. Rev. B **78**, 092406 (2008). * [40] W. A.
Fertig, D. C. Johnston, L. E. DeLong, R. W. McCallum, M. B. Maple, and
B. T. Matthias, Destruction of Superconductivity at the Onset of
Long-Range Magnetic Order in the Compound ErRh_(x)B₄, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**38**, 987 (1977). * [41] G. Mu, H. Luo, Z. Wang, L. Shan, C. Ren, and
H.-H. Wen, Low temperature specific heat of the hole-doped
Ba_(0.6)K_(0.4)Fe₂As₂ single crystals, Phys. Rev. B **79**, 174501
(2009). * [42] G. Jaeger, The Ehrenfest classification of phase
transitions: Introduction and evolution, Arch. Hist. Exact Sci. **53**,
51 (1998). * [43] Z. Bukowski, S. Weyeneth, R. Puzniak, J. Karpinski,
and B. Batlogg, Bulk superconductivity at 2.6 K in undoped RbFe₂As₂,
Physica C **470** (Suppl. 1), S328 (2010). * [44] Y.-L. Sun, H. Jiang,
H.-F. Zhai, J.-K. Bao, W.-H. Jiao, Q. Tao, C.-Y. Shen, Y.-W. Zeng, Z.-A.
Xu, and G.-H. Cao, Ba₂Ti₂Fe₂As₅O: A new superconductor containing Fe₂As₂
layers and Ti₂O sheets, J. Am. Chem. Soc. **134**, 12893 (2012). * [45]
J.-Z. Ma, A. van Roekeghem, P. Richard, Z.-H. Liu, H. Miao, L.-K. Zeng,
N. Xu, M. Shi, C. Cao, J.-B. He, G.-F. Chen, Y.-L. Sun, G.-H. Cao, S.-C.
Wang, S. Biermann, T. Qian, and H. Ding, Correlation-Induced Self-Doping
in the Iron-Pnictide Superconductor Ba₂Ti₂Fe₂As₄O, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**113**, 266407 (2014). * [46] P. W. Anderson and H. Suhl, Spin
Alignment in the Superconducting State, Phys. Rev. **116**, 898
(1959). * [47] P. Fulde and R. A. Ferrell, Superconductivity in a strong
spin-exchange field, Phys. Rev. **135**, A550 (1964). * [48] A. I.
Larkin and Ovchinni. Yin, Inhomogeneous state of superconductors, Sov.
Phys. JETP-USSR **20**, 762 (1965). * [49] H. S. Greenside, E. I.
Blount, and C. M. Varma, Possible Coexisting Superconducting and
Magnetic States, Phys. Rev. Lett. **46**, 49 (1981). * [50] M. Tachiki,
H. Matsumoto, T. Koyama, and H. Umezawa, Self-induced vortices in
magnetic superconductors, Solid State Commun. **34**, 19 (1980). * [51]
The coherence length is calculated by
$\xi(0)=\phi_{b}/[2\pi\,H_{c2}^{\rm orb}(0)]$, where
$H_{c2}^{\rm orb}(0)$ is obtained by the slope of H_(c2)(T) (−5.6 T/K)
using the Werthamer-Helfand-Hohenberg formula
$H_{c2}^{\rm orb}(0)=-0.693T_{\rm sc}(\mu_{0}dH_{c2}/dT|_{T_{\rm sc}})=141.6$
T.
