Superconductivity in the ternary intermetallics YbPd₂Ge₂, LaPd₂Ge₂, and
LaPt₂Ge₂

G. W. Hull, J. H. Wernick, T. H. Geballe, J. V. Waszczak, and J. E.
Bernardini

Bell Laboratories, Murray Hill, New Jersey 07974

###### Abstract

Superconductivity is found to exist in the ternary intermetallics
YbPd₂Ge₂, LaPd₂Ge₂, and LaPt₂Ge₂. Superconductivity-onset temperatures
are 1.17, 1.12, and 0.55 K, respectively. Superconductivity was found
neither in YbCu₂Ge₂ nor in bulk CeCu₂Si₂, the latter in contrast to
previously published work.

## I Introduction

CeCu₂Si₂ appears to be a mixed-valent compound with the ThCr₂Si₂
structure in which transport and heat-capacity measurements show that
the charge carriers have exceptionally large effective masses, two
orders of magnitude greater than typically found in _d_-band metals. It
has recently been reported to become superconducting,[1] a surprising
result for such strongly interactive quasiparticles, and this is
suggestive that the pairing interaction might be due to a
nonconventional mechanism. We have been unable to reproduce the observed
superconductivity in CeCu₂Si₂ above 0.47 K, the limit of our cryostat,
and in conjunction with Dynes, have found the indication of only a trace
of superconductivity down to 0.06 K, most likely due to the presence of
a small fraction of an unidentified minority phase. In the course of
this investigation we have discovered superconductivity in related
RPd₂Ge₂-ordered intermetallic compounds where R is a rare earth, and in
LaPt₂Ge₂, which possesses the tetragonal ThCr₂Si₂ structure (BaAl₄
type),[2, 3] or a variant of this structure.[3] In the ThCr₂Si₂
structure, the Th atoms (or R atoms) occupy one set of equivalent sites.
There are many ternary phases of the form RA₂X₂, where A= Pd, Pt, Rh,
Ag, Cr, Mn, Fe, Co, Ni, and Cu and X= Si and Ge.[2, 3] Of interest to us
in this investigation was the occurrence of superconductivity in those
phases not containing magnetic 3 d elements. In particular, the lattice
constant data[2] for YbPd₂Ge₂ suggested that Yb is, or nearly is,
divalent (a 4/¹⁴ ion) but charge fluctuation or mixed-valent effects (+2
= +3) perhaps could play an important role in the low-temperature
properties.

## II Experimental and Results

The intermetallic compounds were prepared by induction-melting
stoichiometric quantities of the constituents in vitreous carbon
crucibles under one atmosphere of Ar. Melting losses were less than 1

## III YbPd₂Ge₂

The superconducting onset temperatures T_(c) and transition widths,
ΔT_(c), as well as other pertinent information are shown in Table 1. The
best material was obtained by annealing for two weeks at 670 degC
(sample No. 11). Even so, the diffractometer traces exhibited several
very weak lines that could be indexed on the basis of the presence of
very small amounts of Yb, Pd₂Yb₂, PdGe, Pd₂Ge, and GeO₂. This was
confirmed by metallographic studies which indicated the presence of
small amounts of other phases. One extra line, at d = 2.470 A, could not
be indexed on the basis of any known phase of Yb, Pd, and Ge. The
intensity of this line decreased rather dramatically with annealing, but
could not be completely eliminated. In sample No. 11, this line was
very, very weak. DTA measurements showed that YbPd₂Ge₂ undergoes three
solid-state transitions before melting (at 732, 878, and 990 degC;
evidence of melting obtained at 1425 degC, the limit of the DTA
apparatus). We believe that the 2.470-A line may be related to the
presence of a small amount of one of the untransformed elevated
temperature phases.

Magnetic susceptibility studies of as-prepared and annealed samples all
showed Curie-Weiss contributions to the susceptibility, but the
magnitude of this contribution decreased after annealing. It was the
smallest for sample 11. If one assumes that the measured paramagnetic
moments arise from Yb3+ (reasonable since LaPd₂Ge₂ shows no paramagnetic
moments, see below) and that the moment of Yb3+ is equal to the free ion
value of 4.5_m__B_/Yb, the fraction of Yb3+ in each sample can be
determined. In the as-prepared samples, 50

## IV LaPd₂Ge₂ AND LaPt₂Ge₂

Superconductivity results for these two phases are shown in Table II. No
extra diffraction lines were present in the annealed sample of LaPd₂Ge₂,
although the metallographic studies revealed the presence of a
needlelike precipitate. Basically, the sample was single phase. The
as-prepared sample differed little from the annealed and it was
essentially single phase. The diffractometer trace of the annealed
sample of LaPt₂Ge₂ showed several weak extra lines that could be indexed
on the basis of La₂O₃, Ge, and LaGe₂. The structure of LaPt₂Ge₂ is
tetragonal, but a variant of the ThCr₂Si₂ structure.[4]

The magnetic susceptibility of LaPd₂Ge₂ exhibited a small Curie
contribution that is attributed to a low level of paramagnetic
impurities (perhaps 20−50 ppm Fe). Otherwise the intrinsic
susceptibility is temperature independent and 0.1 x 10⁻⁶ emu/g.

LaPt₂Ge₂ exhibits a weakly temperature dependent diamagnetic
susceptibility below 300 K. A small Curie-Weiss contribution was
observed below 50 K probably caused by a small amount of Fe impurity (20
ppm). The absolute value χ_(g) for this sample at room temperature is
−0.02 × 10⁻⁶ emu/g ±20

The susceptibilities of LaPt₂Ge₂ and of LaPd₂Ge₂ are typical of low
density states metals and are slightly smaller than the estimated
susceptibility of YbPd₂Ge₂.

The superconducting transitions as measured by a low-frequency (25 Hz)
ac bridge for powdered samples of LaPd₂Ge in low applied fields showed a
surprising reversibility as demonstrated by the differential
paramagnetic signals shown in Fig. 1. This high degree of reversibility
for the entry and exit of small amounts of flux is rarely found in
intermetallic compounds. The very low critical field curve shown in the
inset suggests that the material may in fact be a type 1 superconductor.

## V CeCu₂Si₂

Steglich _et al._[1] recently reported superconductivity in CeCu₂Si₂
(T_(e) = 0.5 K). This material exhibits low-temperature transport
properties suggestive of Ce "unstable 4f shell" behavior. The samples
Steglich _et al._ studied were prepared by arc melting and their results
were obtained on both unannealed and annealed samples. We have not been
able to reproduce their superconductivity results. More specifically, a
sample of CeCu₂Si₂ annealed at 900 degC for five days (similar to the
Steglich _et al._ annealed sample) was normal down to 0.47 K. The sample
reported by Steglich _et al._ became superconducting above 0.5 K.
Further measurements in a dilution refrigerator down to 0.060 K by Dynes
showed no evidence for bulk superconductivity although a noticeable
decrease in resistance occurred. This decrease could be due to a smeared
out superconducting transition of a minority second phase.

The diffractometer trace for our sample exhibited very weak extra
diffraction peaks that could be indexed on the basis of the presence of
Cu₃Si, CeCu₂, CeCu₆, and CuO as extra phases. The magnetic
susceptibility exhibited a temperature-dependent paramagnetic
contribution that did not fit Curie-Weiss behavior over any significant
temperature range. This may be due to the fact that the crystal-field
splittings of Ce³⁺ are frequently on the order of 100 K. On the other
hand, CeCu₂ and CeCu₆, as impurity phases may be contributing to the
above susceptibility behavior. CeCu₂ has been shown to exhibit a
non-Curie-Weiss temperature-dependent susceptibility[5] and it is likely
that CeCu₆ would exhibit similar behavior.

## VI YbCu₂Ge₂

A sample of YbCu₂Ge₂, annealed at 670 degC for five days, did not
exhibit superconductivity down to 0.47 K.

Figure 1: Low-frequency ac susceptibility of LaPd₂Ge₂ as a function of
temperature without and with a dc bias field. Note the development of a
reversible differential paramagnetic signal.

###### Acknowledgements.

The authors wish to thank R. C. Dynes and J. M. Rowell for several
low-temperature measurements, H. J. Guggenheim for the DTA measurements,
Rosemary Koch for the metallographic studies, and F. J. Di Salvo for
consultations regarding the susceptibility studies. The Stanford portion
of this work was supported by the Air Force Office of Scientific
Research, Contract No. F49620-78-C-0009.

## References

* (1)Also at Department of Applied Physics, Stanford University,
Stanford, Cal. 94305. * (2)F. Steglich, J. Aarts, C. D. Bredl, W. Lieke,
D. Meschede, W. Franz, and H. Schafer, Phys. Rev. Lett. 43, 1892
(1979). * (3)D. Rossi, R. Marazza, and R. Ferro, J. Less-Common Met. 66,
17 (1979). * (4)W. Rieger and E. Parthe, Monatsh. Chem. 100, 444
(1969). * (5)B. Eisenmann, N. May, W. Muller, and H. Schafer, Z.
Naturforsch. 27, 1155 (1972). * (6)R. C. Sherwood, H. J. Williams, and
J. H. Wernick, J. Appl. Phys. 35, 1049 (1964).
