Exotic superconductivity in noncentrosymmetric and magnetic CeNiC₂
revealed under high pressure

Susumu Katano, Masayuki Ito, Kohei Shibata, Jun Gouchi, Yoshiya Uwatoko,
Kazuyuki Matsubayashi, Hideto Soeda, Hiroki Takahashi

# Abstract

We have found that magnetically ordered noncentrosymmetric CeNiC₂
exhibits superconductivity under very high pressures of near 11 GPa. The
transition temperature _T_c is 3.5 K, the _highest_ in all Ce
heavy-fermion superconductors, implying quite strong electron pairings
with a high-energy scale. Several physical quantities show diverging
features of a quantum phase transition, however, its criticality appears
in a rather narrow range of pressure. The upper critical field
μ₀H_(c2)(T = 0) is estimated to be 18 T, much higher than the Pauli
paramagnetic limiting field of 6.5 T, indicating spin-triplet electron
pairings correlated with its noncentrosymmetric structure.

## 1 Introduction

The discovery of magnetism in CeNiC₂ has been a major breakthrough in
the understanding of magnetism in CeNiC₂. The discovery of magnetism in
CeNiC₂ has been a major breakthrough in the understanding of magnetism
in CeNiC₂.

diffraction examined up to 16 GPa shows that this _Annm_2 NCS structure
is kept under high pressure. The unit-cell volume is decreased linearly
by 7.6(4)

The data under high pressures up to 15 GPa were collected with a
cubic-anvil-type high-pressure apparatus between 2 K and room
temperature. A teflon capsule (with a diameter of 1.5 mm at ambient
pressure) with a transmitting medium of glycerol retains pressure
hydrostatically. This teflon capsule was placed in a cubic-type
integrated-fin gasket (5 × 5 × 5 mm³) made of MgO [11]. The electric
resistivity was measured by the conventional four-probe method, and the
susceptibility by the ac induction technique with a frequency of 317 Hz.
The resistivity in the magnetic fields was measured using a
superconducting magnet up to 5 T. The pressure was determined by the
superconducting transition of Pb.

The temperature dependences of the electrical resistivity ρ are shown in
Fig. 1(a) for the data from 0 to 8 GPa, and Fig. 1(b) for those from 9
to 14 GPa. At ambient pressure ρ decreases with decreasing temperature
and exhibits a steep fall below 20 K, where dρ/dT shows an apparent
anomaly; they indicate the transition temperature to AFIC, T_(AFIC),
shown with a black arrow in Fig. 1(a). With increasing pressure T_(AFIC)
substantially increases from 20 K at a rate of 2.4 K/GPa, reaching a
maximum at about 35 K under 6 and 7 GPa.

For AFC and F, anomalies are _not_ obvious in ρ itself and also in
dρ/dT; thus those transitions were determined with specific heat before
[5]. Here, we decide them by dc magnetization using a superconducting
quantum interference device (SQUID) magnetometer; however, because of a
limit of the pressure apparatus used (a piston-cylinder-type cell made
of Cu-Be alloys), those temperatures have been determined only up to 2
GPa. The results indicate that the transitions to AFC and F do not
change largely. The determination of their transition temperatures is
important, but precise specific heat measurements under the 10-GPa class
were difficult.

Above around 6 GPa the resistivity above 60 K shows sign of a decrease,
indicating Kondo behavior as −ln T. The resistivity at the higher
temperatures increases with the phonon resistivity; see the inset of
Fig. 1(a). At 8 GPa, the raw resistivity shows no clear anomaly with
T_(AFIC), implying that the MO starts to break down. There, an anomaly
in dρ/dT is apparent, which determines the AFIC transition. This
transition rapidly decreases with pressure, as shown by the black arrows
in Fig. 1(b).

At about 10 GPa, with a collapse of MO, the resistivity falls suddenly
below about 3 K (an emergence of SC). Figure 2 shows the data around 11
GPa below 8 K. The SC was observed under pressures of 10.7 and 11 GPa at
3.5 K. These transitions are fairly sharp with a width of less than 0.4
K. Taking into account that the sample examined is a polycrystal
consisting of many grains and there may exist a nonuniformity of
pressure surrounding the sample, the _intrinsic_ transition is expected
to be sharp as well; thus, T_(c) can be considered to be 3.5 K. The ac
magnetic susceptibility under these pressures is indicated in the inset
of Fig. 2, showing the diamagnetism associated with SC. Since the
magnitude of the signal around 11 GPa is as large as that from Pb, the
pressure gauge, the SC is of a bulk origin. The T_(c) observed is quite
high compared

Figure 2: Electrical resistivity near 11 GPa and below 8 K. The inset
shows the ac magnetic susceptibility, indicating diamagnetic signals.

Figure 1: Electrical resistivity of CeNiC₂ under high pressures below 50
K. (a) The data from 0 to 8 GPa. (b) Those from 9 to 14 GPa. The black
arrows indicate the transition temperatures T_(AFIC). SC is observed at
3.5 K under pressures around 11 GPa, shown with the (red) arrow. The
insets display the resistivity up to 300 K.

with that of other NCS Ce-based superconductors whose $T_{\rm c}$’s are
of the order of 1 K [3,12, 13, 14], and furthermore, with that of all Ce
heavy-fermion superconductors whose highest $T_{\rm c}$ is 2.6 K of
CeCoIn₅[15].

Under 10.7 and 11 GPa only, the resistivity above $T_{\rm c}$ increases
in proportion to T up to about 80 K, as shown in Fig. 1(b) and its
inset. This shows a non-Fermi-liquid (NFL) behavior. Such a linear-T
dependence was predicted for two-dimensional (2D) AF SF [16]. These
results imply that the SC found is not a conventional BCS type mediated
with phonons but is an unconventional one with some magnetic origin. The
high $T_{\rm c}$ observed may be correlated _first_ with strong SF,
accompanied by the collapse of MO with high transition temperatures.

Above 12 GPa the SC disappears and the low-temperature resistivity
follows AT²; see the resistivity in Fig. 1(b) which displays an upward
curvature. This shows a change to a Fermi-liquid (FL) character. The
coefficient A represents the strength of the interaction between
conduction electrons. A and the residual resistivity ρ₀ obtained from
the data exhibit a peak at around 11 GPa and decrease rapidly under
higher pressures. These results indicate a QC behavior, and changes from
an enhanced strongly correlated metal to a normal one.

These results are summarized in the _P-T_ phase diagram of Fig. 3. As
described above, the phase diagram shows the enhancement and collapse of
MO, the emergence of SC and NFL, and then the change to FL, with
pressure. The regions for NFL and FL were determined from the
temperatures where the resistivity depends on T and T², respectively.
The phase diagram acquired is similar to that of heavy-fermion
superconductors with MO. However, in this system, all the states, i.e.,
MO, SC, NFL, and FL, are fairly sensitive to pressure at around the
critical pressure of 11 GPa; the QC behavior emerges quite sharply. The
quantity $\sqrt{A}$ in the figure, which is proportional to the enhanced
effective electron mass m^(*), decreases substantially with pressure.
The magnetism and bulk SC seem to coexist only in the critical region.
At higher temperatures over 100 K the resistivity shows the Kondo effect
(KE); see the inset of Fig. 1(b).

The present results are compared with the pressure effects on the
paramagnetic superconductor LaNiC₂[17]. Those results indicated that its
SC could be related to a QC feature with strong electronic correlations,
most likely a charge density wave (CDW). The emergence of SC in magnetic
CeNiC₂ can be connected with magnetic fluctuations originated from its
MO.

As shown before, SC appears at a rather high temperature of 3.5 K.
According to the SF theory, the $T_{\rm c}$ of high-$T_{\rm c}$ cuprates
and heavy-fermion superconductors can be correlated with the frequency
spread of their antiferromagnetic fluctuations T₀. Here, T₀ is given
with the coefficient of the electronic specific heat γ as ≈12 500/γ[18].
For CeNiC₂ we now have no information about γ under the critical
pressure; however, with a relation $\gamma\approx R\ln 2/T_{\rm K}$ for
the doublet ground state (R is the molar gas constant and $T_{\rm K}$ is
the Kondo temperature), γ is roughly evaluated to be 600 mJ/mol K²
because its $T_{\rm K}$ is reported as ∼10 K [19]. This γ seems to be
relevant since γ at ambient pressure is about 300 mJ/mol K²[5] and in
the SF model γ will be enhanced at the critical region. Supposing
γ ∼ 600 mJ/mol K², we have $T_{\rm c}\sim 0.7$ K from the figure of Ref.
[18]. If these estimations are appropriate, $T_{\rm c}$ observed at 3.5
K is much higher than that estimated with γ in the SF model. Thus, to
explain such a strong enhancement of $T_{\rm c}$ in the experiment,
other factors would be necessary. Some _exotic_ mechanism with a
higher-energy scale, such as a valence-fluctuation (VF) model [20], is a
candidate to explain the high $T_{\rm c}$.

To other NCS Ce-based superconductors, $T_{\rm c}$’s were reported as ∼1
K and γ as ∼100 mJ/molK²[3, 12, 13, 14]. The relationship between
$T_{\rm c}$ and T₀ indicated above gives $T_{\rm c}$ of ∼5 K [18]; the
systematically and fairly low $T_{\rm c}$’s observed in the experiments
might be due to the spin-triplet nature of their SC or some other
features not included in SF

The magnetic field effects on the resistivity are indicated in Fig. 4.
The maximum field was 5 T. The pressure applied

Figure 4: $\mu_{0}H_{\rm c2}$ vs $T_{\rm c}$ determined from the field
dependence of the resistivity under 11.4 GPa shown in the inset.
$\mu_{0}H_{\rm c2}$ at T = 0 is estimated to be 18 T. That for LaNiC₂,
at ambient pressure, is about 0.3 T, the data are multiplied by a factor
of 5. The dotted lines show the fits to the WHH theory.

Figure 3: _P-T_ phase diagram. Magnetic states: P, AFIC, CF, and F. The
transition temperatures for AFC and F could be obtained only up to 2
GPa. See text. Pressure reveals SC, NFL, FL, and KE. A is the
coefficient of the T² dependence of the resistivity. The temperatures
for NFL, FL, and KE are multiplied by a factor of 1/2.

was 11.4 GPa. Only a clamp-type pressure cell could be used for this
experiment; therefore the tuning of pressure at around 11 GPa was
difficult. SC under this pressure shows a transition with a width of
about 1 K, as observed previously. The results show that this SC is
quite robust in magnetic fields. The slope of μ₀H_(c2) near H = 0,
d(μ₀H_(c2))/dT ≡ μ₀H_(c2)^(′) ∼ −7.1 T/K for the onset resistivity,
whose T_(c)(H = 0) of 3.5 K is the same as that under the critical
pressure of 11 GPa. The slope of μ₀H_(c2) for the zero resistivity,
T_(c) ∼ 2.5 K, is similar to that for the onset data. From the empirical
parabolic relation, H_(c2)(T)/H_(c2)(0) = 1 − t² (t = T/T_(c)), μ₀H_(c2)
at T = 0 is roughly estimated to be 20 T. This field is much higher than
the Pauli paramagnetic limiting field μ₀H_(P)^(RCS) of 6.5 T evaluated
from $\Delta/(\sqrt{2}\mu_{\text{B}})\approx 1.86T_{\text{c}}$; here, Δ
is the superconducting energy gap. This high μ₀H_(c2) indicates that SC
of the system is likely a spin triplet. Such an unusual triplet state
has been established in subsequent studies for all other NCS Ce-based SC
with quite high μ₀H_(c2)’s. The spin triplet proposed here also
corresponds with its NCS structure of the system. This spin-triplet
state, however, as well as the coexistence with the spin-singlet state,
should be examined further.

From the formula μ₀H_(c2) = Φ/(2πξ²), where Φ is the flux quantum, the
Ginzburg-Landau (GL) coherence length ξ is obtained to be 4.2 × 10⁻⁹ m
experimentally. This ξ is comparable with the Pippard coherence length
ξ₀ (∼the size of the interacting pairs, given by the conventional BCS
theory as ξ₀ = 0.18ℏv_(F)/k_(B)T_(c) with the Fermi velocity v_(F)),
i.e., ξ ∼ ξ₀ at T = 0[21]. Physically, when the distance between
vortices becomes equal to that between interacting electrons, SC would
collapse. When we assume a spherical Fermi surface with γ ∼ 600 mJ/mol
K² in the SF model before, ξ₀ is evaluated to be ∼0.7 × 10⁻⁹ m, which is
rather shorter than the GL coherence length ξ obtained above; such a
discrepancy suggests again that the present SC is not explained well
with the SF model. Supposing that γ ∼ 100 mJ/mol K², which is
considerably smaller than that assumed in SF, ξ₀ will be righty ∼4 ×
10⁻⁹ m of ξ above. The decrease in γ near the critical pressure such as
this, caused by the valence changes there, is a characteristic of the VF
model referred to previously. Moreover, the results observed, i.e., the
higher T_(c), the fairly sharp QC compared with those in SF, and the
enhanced T-linear dependence of ρ (which should be
dimension-independent), are also reasonably explained by VF [20]. Noted
that the relationship between T_(c) and T₀ based on SF shown before
would not be simply applicable to VF.

The v_(F) estimated from ξ above, with the residual resistivity
ρ₀ ∼ 20μΩ cm, gives the mean free path l ( = v_(F)τ; here, τ is a
relaxation time  ∝ m^(*)/ρ₀) ∼1 × 10⁻⁸ m. This value is larger than ξ,
indicating that the system is in the clean limit. In this case the
orbital limiting field is calculated from
μ₀H_(nch)^(BS) = 0.727(−μ₀H_(c2)^(′))T_(c)[22]. Using the slope of
μ₀H_(c2) before, μ₀H_(nch)^(BS) at T = 0 is obtained to be 18 T,
consistent with that estimated roughly before. The lines in Fig. 4 show
fits to the Werthamer-Helfand-Hohenberg (WHH) theory. Note that the
sample used is a polycrystal; when the SC has strong anisotropy,
μ₀H_(c2) of the system could be higher than 18 T.

As displayed in Fig. 4, μ₀H_(c2) for LaNiC₂ observed in our resistivity
and magnetization measurements is as small as about 0.3 T, which is very
low compared with the calculated μ₀H_(P)^(RCS) of 5.5 T for T_(c) ∼ 3 K.
On this SC, the nonunitary triplet state was proposed from a muon spin
relaxation (μSR) experiment and group theoretical discussions [23,24].
The very low μ₀H_(c2) of LaNiC₂, however, with other results referred to
in Ref. [8], may suggest that its SC could be a spin singlet. The
"nonunitarity" might be expected for the spin-triplet state implied for
this CeNiC₂, since the discussion on LaNiC₂ with the point group C_(2ν)
mentioned above would be equally applied to this system. Noted that
CeNiC₂ has the F phase exhibiting a spontaneous magnetization [9].

With the coherence length ξ₀ and γ ∼ 100 mJ/mol K², the number k_(F)ξ₀
is calculated to be ∼40 (k_(F) is the Fermi momentum given by
m^(*)v_(F)/ℏ, and 1/k_(F) is the average distance between electrons).
This number is rather small. The ratio Δ/E_(F) (E_(F) is the Fermi
energy) is ∼0.02, and is fairly large. Compare them with those estimated
for CePt₃Si: k_(F)ξ₀ ∼ 90 and Δ/E_(F) ∼ 0.005. The characteristic values
indicated above further imply that this SC is exotic, reflecting the
short coherence length ξ₀ and the high T_(c), thus the strong electron
couplings.

To conclude, high-pressure experiments on magnetic NCS CeNiC₂ have shown
a unique SC. Its T_(c) is quite high, 3.5 K under 11 GPa. The QC
behavior observed is rather sharp against pressure. The specific
features observed could be understood by a model such as VF with a
high-energy process. The μ₀H_(c2) evaluated for T = 0 is as high as 18
T, indicating that this SC has a spin-triplet nature in connection with
its peculiar Anm2 NCS.

S.K. acknowledges valuable discussions with J. Quintanilla and K.
Miyake.

## References

* [1] J. Bardeen, L. N. Cooper, and J. R. Schrieffer, Phys. Rev.
**106**, 162 (1957); **108**, 1175 (1957). * [2] P. W. Anderson, Phys.
Rev. B **30**, 4000 (1984). * [3] E. Bauer, G. Hilscher, H. Michor, Ch.
Paul, E. W. Scheidt, A. Gribanov, Yu. Seropegin, H. Noel, M. Sigrist,
and P. Rogl, Phys. Rev. Lett. **92**, 027003 (2004). * [4] P. A.
Frigeri, D. F. Agterberg, A. Koga, and M. Sigrist, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**92**, 097001 (2004). * [5] S. Katano, K. Shibata, K. Nakashima, H.
Yoshimura, and Y. Matsubara, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **86**, 104704 (2017). *
[6] Z. F. Weng, J. L. Zhang, M. Smidman, T. Shang, J. Quintanilla, J. F.
Annett, M. Nicklas, G. M. Pang, L. Jiao, W. B. Jiang, Y. Chen, F.
Steglich, and H. Q. Yuan, Phys. Rev. Lett. **117**, 027001 (2016). * [7]
S. Katano, K. Shibata, K. Nakashima, and Y. Matsubara, Phys. Rev. B
**95**, 144502 (2017). * [8] K. Motoya, K. Nakaguchi, N. Kayama, K.
Inari, J. Akimitsu, K. Izawa, and T. Fujita, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **66**,
1124 (1997). * [9] V. K. Pecharsky, L. L. Miller, and K. A. Gschneidner,
Jr., Phys. Rev. B. **58**, 497 (1998).

* [10] J. Gouchi _et al._ (unpublished). * [11] J.-G. Cheng, K.
Matsubayashi, S. Nagasaki, A. Hisada, T. Hirayama, M. Hedo, H. Kagi, and
Y. Uwatoko, Rev. Sci. Instrum. **85**, 093907 (2014). * [12] N. Kimura,
K. Ito, K. Saitoh, Y. Umeda, H. Aoki, and T. Terashima, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**95**, 247004 (2005). * [13] I. Sugitani, Y. Okuda, H. Shishido, T.
Yamada, A. Thamizhavel, E. Yamamoto, T. D. Matsuda, Y. Haga, T.
Takeuchi, R. Settai, and Y. Onuki, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **75**, 043703
(2006). * [14] T. Kawai, H. Muranaka, M.-A. Measson, T. Shimoda, Y. Doi,
T. D. Matsuda, Y. Haga, G. Knebel, G. Lapertot, D. Aoki, J. Flouquet, T.
Takeuchi, R. Settai, and Y. Onuki, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **77**, 064716
(2008). * [15] V. A. Sidorov, M. Nicklas, P. G. Pagliuso, J. L. Sarrao,
Y. Bang, A. V. Balatsky, and J. D. Thompson, Phys. Rev. Lett. **89**,
157004 (2002). * [16] T. Moriya and K. Ueda, Rep. Prog. Phys. **66**,
1299 (2003). * [17] S. Katano, H. Nakagawa, K. Matsubayashi, Y. Uwatoko,
H. Soda, T. Tomita, and H. Takahashi, Phys. Rev. B **90**, 220508(R)
(2014). * [18] S. Nakamura, T. Moriya, and K. Ueda, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn.
**65**, 4026 (1996). * [19] A. Bhattacharyya, D. T. Adroja, A. M.
Strydom, A. D. Hillier, J. W. Taylor, A. Thamizhavel, S. K. Dhar, W. A.
Kockelmann, and B. D. Rainford, Phys. Rev. B **90**, 054405 (2014). *
[20] A. T. Holmes, D. Jaccard, and K. Miyake, Phys. Rev. B. **69**,
024508 (2004). * [21] M. Tinkham, _Introduction to Superconductivity_
(McGraw-Hill, New York, 1975), p. 10. * [22] E. Helfand and N. R.
Werthamer, Phys. Rev. **147**, 288 (1966). * [23] A. D. Hillier, J.
Quintanilla, and R. Cywinski, Phys. Rev. Lett. **102**, 117007 (2009). *
[24] J. Quintanilla, A. D. Hillier, J. F. Annett, and R. Cywinski, Phys.
Rev. B **82**, 174511 (2010).
