# Exotic magnetism and superconductivity in Ge-substituted CeCu₂Si₂: A
Cu NQR study

Y. Kawasaki,* K. Ishida,^(†) K. Obinata, K. Tabuchi, K. Kashima, and Y.
Kitaoka

Department of Physical Science, Graduate School of Engineering Science,
Osaka University, Toyonaka, Osaka 560-8531, Japan

O. Trovarelli, C. Geibel, and F. Steglich

Max-Planck Institute for Chemical Physics of Solids, D-01187 Dresden,
Germany

Received 4 October 2001; revised manuscript received 28 May 2002;
published 6 December 2002

###### Abstract

We report Cu NQR results on Ge-doped heavy-fermion superconductors
CeCu₂(Si_(1 − x)Ge_(x))₂ (0 < x <= 0.2) and compare with previous
results on Ce_(0.99)Cu_(2.02)Si₂ (_x_ = 0). Once only 1

pacs: DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.66.224502 PACS number(s): 74.70.Tx,
71.27.+a, 74.62.Dh, 76.60.-k + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL REVIEW B
**66**, 224502 (2002)

## I Introduction

Heavy-fermion (HF) superconductivity has received much attention with
respect to the intimate relation between magnetism and
superconductivity. Up to now, it has been established that the
superconductivity in Ce-based HF compound appears close to a magnetic
phase. Actually, a number of HF compounds are shown to exhibit
superconductivity around a critical pressure where some kind of magnetic
order is suppressed by applying pressure (_P_). [1-4] In contrast, the
superconductivity in underlying compound CeCu₂Si₂ emerges just at the
border of the antiferromagnetic (AFM) phase at ambient pressure (_P_ =
0). This was demonstrated by the existence of a magnetic phase adjacent
to the superconducting (SC) state. When magnetic field (_H_) exceeds its
upper critical field, the field induced normal state is replaced by
magnetic phase A. [5] Although the nature of phase A is still unknown,
it was shown to be magnetic in origin by several experiments. [5-7]

From the Cu-NQR measurements, [8] we suggested that phase A at H = 0
behaves as a marginal AFM state, where slowly fluctuating AFM waves
propagate over a long distance and coexist with the SC state. It is
quite unusual that their characteristic frequency (o_(c)   3 × 106
sec⁻¹) is extremely low and comparable to a Cu-NQR frequency in this
compound. [9] Therefore, this marginal AFM state that sets in well above
T_(c), wipes out the NQR intensity. [6] This wipe-out effect was
reported in high-_T__c_ cuprates La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄ as well. [10,11]
Thereby, the emergence of slowly fluctuating AFM waves seems to be one
of characteristics for strongly correlated electron systems nearby the
AFM phase.

These exotic magnetic and SC properties in Ce_(0.99)Cu_(2.02)Si₂ (T_(c)
  0.65 K) have been extensively investigated through the transport,
thermal, and NQR measurements. [9, 12-24] From these studies, it was
clarified that Ce_(0.99)Cu_(2.02)Si₂ is just at the border to the AFM
phase and that exotic superconductivity manifests itself under the
unconventional normal state where the slowly fluctuating AFM waves
propagate over a long range without any trace of AFM order. The
measurement of nuclear spin-lattice relaxation rate 1/_T_1, that probes
the development of low-lying magnetic excitations, revealed a distinct
peak at T_(c), followed by a 1/_T__1_ T = const behavior well below
T_(c). [8]

Quite recently, Takimoto and Moriya have studied an interplay between
antiferromagnetism and superconductivity by using the spin-fluctuation
theory within the fluctuation-exchange (FLEX) approximation. [15] They
have found that _d_-wave superconductivity coexists with an
incommensurate spin-density wave (SDW) and that soft components of
incommensurate SDW spin fluctuations grow as the coexistence phase is
approached. Also, they have calculated the temperature (_T_) dependence
of 1/_T_1T which shows a sharp peak at T_(c), followed by a saturation
in 1/_T_1T below T_(c). This result is in good agreement with the
experimental results in 1/_T_1T for Ce_(0.99)Cu_(2.02)Si₂ and hence
reinforces that Ce_(0.09)Cu_(2.02)Si₂ is located at the border of the
AFM phase. Remarkably, the recent _m_SR experiment has demonstrated that
the exotic superconductivity in Ce_(0.99)Cu_(2.02)Si₂ coexists in a
microscopic level with slowly fluctuating AFM waves. [16] This result
has suggested that the superconductivity and the marginal AFM state in
CeCu₂Si₂ have a common background.

Such an exotic coexistent phase is tuned in a delicate way by varying a
coupling constant g = |J_(cf)|/W, where |J_(cf)| is the exchange
coupling constant between the 4f moment and conduction-electron spin and
W the bandwidth of the conduction electron. As a matter of fact, the
slowly fluctuating AFM waves are depressed completely by applying
pressures exceeding P = 0.2 GPa, i.e., the increase of g. [17] The
normal state is well described in terms of the self-consistent
renormalized (SCR) AFM spin-fluctuation theory. The HF SC state with a
line-node gap manifests itself under such an AFM Fermi liquid state.

On the other hand, the Ge substitution for Si expands the lattice,
leading to the reduction of g. Therefore, it would be expected that
magnetic [Ruderman-Kittel-Kasuya-Yosida (RKKY)] interactions of 4f
moments become stronger as Ge content (x) increases. In fact, only 2

In the previous paper, [18] superconductivity (_T_(c) = 0.4_ K) and
antiferromagnetism (_T_(N)_ = 0.75 K) were suggested to coexist in
CeCu₂(Si_(0.98)Ge_(0.02))₂. It was proposed that the exotic SC phase in
the nearly homogeneous sample and the coexistence of AFM and SC phases
in the slightly Ge-substituted sample can be accounted for on the basis
of SO(5) theory that unifies superconductivity and antiferromagnetism.
[18, 20] We believe that this model could shed light on current ideas
regarding the magnetically mediated mechanism of the superconductivity
in other strongly correlated electron systems in addition to
high-_T_(c)_ cuprates.

In order to gain further insight into an interplay between
superconductivity and antiferromagnetism, it is important to investigate
how magnetic and SC properties change as x is increased or as g is
decreased. In this study, we have carried out Cu-NQR measurements on
CeCu₂(Si_(1 − x)Ge_(x))₂ in 0<x≤ 0.2. Note that the isostructural
CeCu₂Ge₂ exhibits the AFM order below _T_(N)_ = 4.15 K at P = 0, [21,
22] but it turned out to exhibit the HF superconductivity at pressures
exceeding 7.6 GPa. [1, 23] Remarkable results are presented as follows.
(1) The AFM order emerges suddenly at _T_(N)_ = 0.7 K by substituting
only 1

## II Experiment and Result

Samples of CeCu₂(Si_(1 − x)Ge_(x))₂ at x = 0.01, 0.02, 0.04, 0.06, 0.1,
and 0.2 were prepared as described elsewhere. [19] These samples were
moderately crushed into grains with diameters larger than 100 μm in
order to avoid some crystal distortion, if any. A SC transition
temperature _T_(c)_ was confirmed by a distinct change in inductance of
NQR coil. As x increases, _T_(c)_ decreases steeply as _T_(c)_ = 0.5,
0.4, 0.2, and 0.15 for x = 0.01, 0.02, 0.06, and 0.1, respectively. This
result is totally consistent with the previous resistivity and
susceptibility measurements. [24] The NQR spectrum was obtained by
measuring a spin-echo intensity as a function of frequency, using a
phase coherent pulsed NMR spectrometer. The nuclear spin-lattice
relaxation rate 1/_T₁_ was measured by the conventional
saturation-recovery method.

Figure 1 indicates ⁶³Cu- and ⁶⁵Cu-NQR spectra at x =0.02, 0.04, 0.06,
0.1, and 0.2 at 4.2 K. Here, the spectrum at x = 0.01 is not shown,
since it is nearly equivalent to that at x = 0.02. For x = 0.02, the
respective main peaks at 3.435 and 3.175 MHz arise from ⁶³Cu and ⁶⁵Cu
nuclei with nuclear spin I = 3/2. Satellite peaks at 3.315 and 3.064 MHz
are assigned to the Cu sites around Ge atoms, since these peaks appear
by substituting Ge for Si and grow up with increasing x. This kind of
satellite peak is often observed, once a small amount of impurities is
introduced into HF systems, for example, the La doped CeRu₂Si₂. [25] As
x increases, the NQR linewidth becomes broader, pointing to a large
inhomogeneous distribution of the electric field gradient (EFG) at the
Cu site. Nevertheless, their magnetic state is rather homogeneous
through the whole sample as shown later.

### NQR spectrum–probe of internal field due to AFM order

The previous work revealed that the slowly fluctuating AFM waves in the
nearly homogeneous Ce_(0.99)Cu_(2.02)Si₂ (x = 0) evolve into the AFM
order, once only 2

Figure 2(a) indicates the NQR spectra at x = 0.02 at various
temperatures. It is evident that the spectral width markedly broadens
below T_(N) 0.75 K. The emergence of AFM order is also corroborated by
the 1/_T_1 result that exhibits a sharp peak at T_(N) as shown in the
following subsection. The T and x dependencies of NQR spectrum allow us
to examine a systematic evolution of the AFM order.

A NQR spectral shape was simulated by incorporating both the
distributions of EFG and $H_{\rm int}$. The distribution in EFG due to
the Ge substitution is obtained from the NQR spectrum in the
paramagnetic state indicated in Fig. 1. The distribution in
$H_{\rm int}$ is assumed by taking into account a possible magnetic
structure reported from the neutron-diffraction results on CeCu₂Ge₂.[21,
22]

The nuclear Hamiltonian at H = 0 below T_(N) is described in terms of
the nuclear electric quadrupole (_eq Q_) interaction and the Zeeman
interaction due to $H_{\rm int}$ as

$${\cal H}_{Q} = \frac{e^{2}qQ}{4I(2I-1)}\Bigg{[}3I_{z}^{2} - I(I+1)+\frac{\eta}{2}(I_{z}^{2}+I_{-}^{2})\Bigg{]},$$

$${\cal H}_{Z} = - \gamma_{n}\hbar I\cdot H_{\rm int},$$

where γ_(n) and η are the ^(63, 65)Cu nuclear gyromagnetic ratio and the
asymmetry parameter for the EFG tensor, defined as eq = V_(ZZ) and η=
(V_(XX) − V_(YY))/V_(ZZ), respectively. Here, η∼ 0. Note that the
direction of V_(ZZ) at Cu site is parallel to the tetragonal c axis.[26]
By resolving the total Hamiltonian ${\cal H}$=
${\cal H}_{Q}+{\cal H}_{Z}$ exactly, we calculated the eigenenergies of
four nuclear-spin levels. The transition probability between the
adjacent eigenstate gives an expected intensity for each resonance line.
Thus, a full line shape is numerically simulated by taking both the
contributions of $H_{\rm int}$ and r_(Q) into consideration. The result
at T = 0.1 K is indicated by the solid lines at x = 0.02 in Fig. 2(a)
and x = 0.06 and 0.1 in Fig. 2(b). The overall agreement between the
experiment and the simulation seems to be satisfactory for all the
results.

Thus obtained shape of distribution in $H_{\rm int}$, $D(H_{\rm int})$
is represented in Fig. 2(c). The $H_{\rm int}$ at a peak,
$\langle H_{\rm int}\rangle$ slightly increases as
$\langle H_{\rm int}\rangle$ = 0.3, 0.4, and 0.45 kOe at x = 0.02, 0.06,
and 0.1, respectively. Provided that a possible magnetic structure is of
an AFM type with a wave vector q1 = (1/2, 1/2, _c_) in CePd₂Si₂ and
CeRh₂Si₂ or with q2 = (0, 0, 1/2) in URu₂Si₂,[27, 28, 29, 30, 31,
32]$H_{\rm int}$ is canceled out at the Cu sites that occupy a
magnetically symmetric position. Therefore, a likely spin structure may
be either helical or spin-density-wave (SDW) type. These spin structures
were indicated by the elastic neutron-diffraction experiments on the
CeCu₂(Si_(1 − x)Ge_(x))₂ with x = 0.6, 0.8, and [21, 22]. The SDW type
of order is, however, unlikely because $D(H_{\rm int})$ should have a
peak around $H_{\rm int}$ 0 associated with the presence of nodes in SDW
and a different shape from $D(H_{\rm int})$ in Fig. 2(c) is simulated.

In contrast, in a helical spin structure, it should be noted that
$H_{\rm int}$ is predominantly produced by four nearest-neighbor Ce
moments. Therefore, $\langle H_{\rm int}\rangle$ allows us to estimate
an average ordered moment using the value of hyperfine coupling constant
A₁ = −4.6 kOe/μ_(B) in the paramagnetic state.[33] Figure 3 shows the T
dependence of $\langle H_{\rm int}\rangle$ at x = 0.02. It seems to
follow a T variation on the mean-field approximation below T_(N) even
though coming across T_(c) 0.4 K. As shown in the inset of Fig. 3, a
magnetic moment μ₀ 0.06μ_(B) at T = 0.1 K and x = 0.01 increases
slightly with the Ge concentration, consistent with the result from the
μSR experiments.[34, 35] This AFM order with a tiny moment is consistent
with the result by recent neutron-diffraction measurements.[36]

The full width $\Delta H_{\rm int}$ at the half maximum of
$D(\langle H_{\rm int}\rangle)$

Figure 3: Temperature dependence of $\langle H_{\rm int}\rangle$ at x =
0.02. The inset indicates the size of magnetic moment at 0.1 K as the
function of Ge concentration. Both dotted lines are guide for eye.

Figure 2: (a) Temperature dependence of ^(63, 65)Cu-NQR spectrum in
CeCu₂(Si_(10, 96)Ge_(0.02))₂ (_x_ = 0.02). The broadening of NQR
line-width below T_(N) = 0.75 K indicate the presence of internal field
$H_{\rm int}$ at the Cu sites. (b) NQR spectra at x = 0.06 and 0.1 at T
= 0.1 K. The solid lines are simulations where the Zeeman shift due to
$H_{\rm int}$ is incorporated (see the text in details). (c)
Distributions $D(H_{\rm int})$ of $H_{\rm int}$ at the Cu sites in the
ordered states at x = 0.02, 0.06, and 0.1.

becomes narrower as x increases. A large value of $\Delta H_{\rm int}$
at x = 0.02 may be explained by the combined contributions of an
intrinsic distribution in $H_{\rm int}$ due to its helical structure and
of an inevitable spatial distribution in size of spontaneous moments due
to the Ge doping. In the helical structure, $H_{\rm int}$ consists of
$H_{\rm int}^{\parallel}$ and $H_{\rm int}^{\perp}$ parallel and
perpendicular to the tetragonal c axis, respectively. Note that the
Zeeman shift in NQR spectrum due to $H_{\rm int}^{\perp}$ is four times
larger than that due to $H_{\rm int}^{\parallel}$ because the principal
axis of EFG is parallel to the c axis. Therefore, even when a size in
$H_{\rm int}$ is fixed, its direction is actually distributed due to the
helical structure, resulting in the large value in $\Delta H_{\rm int}$.

It should be mentioned that no peak in $D(H_{\rm int})$ appears at
$H_{\rm int}\!=\!0$. The absence of peak in $D(H_{\rm int})$ at
$H_{\rm int}\!=\!0$ excludes a possibility that the SC phase is
spatially separated from the AFM phase. Because, in case of the spatial
segregation between two phases, two peaks in $D(H_{\rm int})$ at
$H_{\rm int}\!=\!0$ and $\langle H_{\rm int}\rangle\!\neq\!0$ might
arise from SC and AFM phase, respectively. When x increases, this phase
segregation due to the Ge substitution, _if any_, would induce
considerable changes in the distribution in $H_{\rm int}$. However, the
same type of distribution in $H_{\rm int}$ is deduced irrespective of x.
Thus, the possibility of any phase segregation is ruled out by this
systematic evolution in the Cu-NQR spectra with the Ge content.

### Nuclear spin-lattice relaxation rate 1/T₁

The T dependence of the nuclear spin-lattice relaxation rate 1/T₁ of
⁶³Cu at x = 0.2, 0.1, and 0.02 is shown in Figs. 4(a), 4(b), and 4(c),
respectively. 1/T₁ is uniquely determined above T_(N), but it is
distributed below T_(N) for all the samples. The distribution in 1/T₁
below T_(N) is presumably associated with the distribution of
$H_{\rm int}$, related to the helical magnetic structure in the AFM
state. The value of faster component in 1/T₁ is about three times larger
than that of slower one below T_(N), as shown later. Only slow component
in 1/T₁ is shown below T_(N) for a simplicity of discussion.

In a high T region, 1/T₁ becomes almost T independent above a
temperature marked as T* in Fig. 4, exhibiting that local-moment
fluctuations dominate the relaxation process. It is known in HF systems
that T* is scaled to the quasielastic linewidth in neutron-scattering
spectrum, leading to a tentative estimation of the bandwidth of HF state
[T^(* α)exp (−1/g)]. Therefore, the decrease in T* due to the Ge
substitution indicates the reduction of HF bandwidth. In such a
localized regime above T*, the constant value of 1/T₁ is proportional to
$p_{\rm eff}^{2}W/J_{cf}^{2}$, where $p_{\rm eff}$ is an effective
paramagnetic local moment. Therefore, the progressive increase in 1/T₁
with increasing x is ascribed to the increase in $p_{\rm eff}$ and/or
the reduction of |J_(cf)|. This result is consistent with the decrease
in T* due to the reduction of g = |J_(cf)|/W caused by the Ge
substitution.

Next, we focus on the magnetic properties at x = 0.02 and subsequently
its evolution with increasing x. For x = 0.02, 1/T₁ gradually decreases
down to T* below T*, revealing a crossover from a localized to an
itinerant regime. A clear peak at T_(N) = 0.75 K, below which the NQR
linewidth broadens rapidly, reflects a critical slowing down associated
with the AFM transition. A rapid drop of 1/T₁ below T_(N) is presumably
due to a partial loss of low-lying excitations.

The 1/T₁ result nearby the AFM phase is well explained by the SCR theory
for nearly or weakly AFM itinerant magnets.[37, 38] In this scheme, 1/T₁
is predicted as follows:

$$1/T_{1}\!\propto\!T\sqrt{\chi_{Q}(T)}\!\propto\!T/\sqrt{T\!-\!T_{N}}$$

above T_(N),

$$1/T_{1}\!\propto\!T/M_{Q}(T)\!\propto\!T/\sqrt{T_{N}\!-\!T}$$

below T_(N). Here, χ_(Q)(T) and M_(Q)(T) are a dynamical susceptibility
and the magnetization of AFM sublattice, respectively. The 1/T₁T data at
x = 0.02 are fitted by including the term 6.6/$\sqrt{T\!-\!T_{N}}$ in
1.5 K > T  > T_(N) = 0.75 K and $12/\sqrt{T_{N}\!-\!T}$ in
T_(c)  < T  < T_(N) as presented in the inset of Fig. 5. The good
agreement between the experiment and the calculation indicates a
long-range nature of the AFM ordering in the itinerant regime.

By substituting Ge for Si, as indicated by arrows in Fig. 4, while T* is
decreased, T_(N) is gradually increased in collaboration with the
development of saturation moment μ₀. As a result, T* approaches to
T_(N), indicating that the magnetic properties just above T_(N) change
from the itinerant to localized regime. Correspondingly, the peak in
1/T₁ at T_(N) disappears at x = 0.2, resembling the behavior observed
for f-electron antiferromagnets that are in the localized regime.[39]
The SCR theory is not applicable to the data for x = 0.06 and 0.1 any
more, since the itinerant regime is limited in a narrow T range for 1/T₁
to be fitted.

We now turn to the SC state in which low-energy properties are
intimately changed by substituting Ge for Si or ap

Figure 4: Temperature dependence of the nuclear spin-lattice relaxation
rate 1/T₁ of ⁶³Cu at x = (a) 0.2, (b) 0.1, and (c) 0.02.

plying P. In order to demonstrate this, the T dependence of 1/_T_1 at x
= 0.02 is indicated in Fig. 5 with those for Ce0.99Cu2.02Si2 (_x_ = 0)
at P = 0 and 0.85 GPa.[17] As seen in Fig. 5, the line-node SC gap at P
= 0.85 GPa is evidenced from a 1/_T_1 T3 dependence. However, the 1/_T_1
at x = 0 is deviated well below _T_c from the T3 one and exhibits a weak
T dependence. Likewise, the 1/_T_1 at x = 0.02 is nearly proportional to
the temperature far below T_(N). This suggests that the low-energy
spectral weight in spin-fluctuation spectrum survives even below T_(c)
at x = 0 and 0.02.

Here, we should remark whether or not the disorder effect associated
with the Ge substitution influences the magnetic property because the
satellite peak is actually observed in NQR spectrum (see Fig. 1). In
order to investigate some local inhomogeneous effect, the 1/_T_1’s at x
= 0.02 were measured at the main (3.435 MHz) and the satellite (3.315
MHz) peaks. Note that the latter arises from the ⁶³Cu sites around the
Ge atoms. As shown in Fig. 6, in the paramagnetic state, the value of
1/_T_1 at the satellite peak is slightly larger than that at the main
peak over a whole T range. The small difference in the values of 1/_T_1
may be due to a possible difference in g. Nevertheless, both the
1/_T_1’s exhibit a distinct peak at T_(N), evidencing a long-range
character of AFM order. Below T_(N), although both T1’s are not uniquely
determined owing to the distribution in _H_int, the short and long
components undergo a similar T dependence. Thereby the AFM order takes
place throughout the whole sample, although it is not completely
excluded that the size in spontaneous moments is spatially distributed.

One may suspect that the potential scattering due to nonmagnetic Ge
impurities brings about a finite density of states at the Fermi surface,
leading to the observed enhancement of 1/_T_1 below T_(c).[41, 42]
However, a recent NQR result under P at x = 0.02 reveals that the AFM
order is suppressed and the HF superconductivity with the line-node gap
is recovered by applying pressures.[40] This result apparently excludes
such the impurity effect as a cause for the enhancement of 1/_T_1 below
T_(c).

### Temperature dependence of NQR intensity probing the marginal AFM
state

Figures 7(a) and (b) indicate the T dependence of NQR intensity
multiplied by temperature [_I_(_T_) x _T_] at x = 0.06 and 0.02 along
with that [Fig. 7(c)] at x = 0 reported previously.[8] Here, _I_(_T_) is
an integrated intensity over the NQR spectrum and normalized by the
value at 4.2 K. Since an NQR intensity depends on a pulse interval t
between two

Figure 5: Temperature dependence of 1/_T_1 for x = 0.02 and
Ce0.99Cu2.02Si2 (_x_ = 0) at ambient pressure and at 0.85 GPa. The
insert shows the 1/_T_1T vs T plot for x = 0.02. The solid line is a fit
on the basis of the SCR theory that is consistent with the data for
T_(N) < T < 1.5 K and T_(c) < T_(N) (see text).

Figure 6: Temperature dependence of 1/_T_1 at x = 0.02, measured at a
main peak of 3.435 MHz (closed symbols) and at a satellite peak of 3.315
MHz (open symbols). The fast and slow relaxation components owing to the
distribution in internal field are estimated for each below T_(N).

Figure 7: Temperature dependence of _I_(_T_) × T where _I_(_T_) is an
NQR intensity normalized by the value at 4.2 K at (a) x = 0.06, (b) 0.02
in CeCu(Si1−2,Ge)2, and (c) the undoped Ce0.99Cu2.02Si2 (_x_ = 0).

pulses by means of the spin-echo method, I(τ = 0) is evaluated through
the relation of I(τ) = I(τ = 0)exp (−2πf₂) where, 1/T₂ is the spin-echo
decay rate. I(T) is generally proportional to 1/T following to the Curie
susceptibility for a nuclear-spin system Therefore, I(T) × T should stay
constantly if the nuclear relaxation time ranges in an observable time
window that is typically more than several microseconds. Therefore, the
large reduction of I(T) × T on cooling at x = 0 is ascribed to the
development of the slowly fluctuating AFM waves. Note that a
T₁ ∼ 0.14μsec, that is estimated from the relation
$1/T_{1}\!\propto\!\omega_{c}(T)/\{\omega_{c}(T)^{2}\!+\!\omega_{\rm NQR}^{2}\}$,
is too short for the NQR signal to be observed experimentally. Here,
ω_(c) (∼ 3 MHz) and ω_(NQR) (∼ 3.4 MHz) is a characteristic frequency of
the slowly fluctuating AFM waves and the central NQR frequency,
respectively.[9]

We now turn to the result on the Ge substituted compounds. The I(T) × T
at x = 0.02 decreases down to ∼ 0.4 upon cooling from 1.2 K down to
T_(N) = 0.75 K, resembling the behavior at x = 0. The reduction of
I(T) × T stops around T_(N), but does not recover with further
decreasing T. Note that the reduction below T_(c) = 0.4 K is due to the
SC diamagnetic shielding of rf field for the NQR measurement.
Apparently, the AFM order, that suddenly appears at x = 0.02, coexists
with the marginal AFM state. It seems, therefore, that the onset of AFM
order due to the lattice expansion is indicative of a first-order type.

By contrast, the I(T) × T at x = 0.06 does not decrease significantly
upon cooling down to T_(c) = 0.2 K across T_(N) = 0.9 K. It indicates
that the slowly fluctuating AFM waves are not appreciable above x = 0.06
and that the magnetic property changes to a rather conventional type of
behavior with increasing x. The μSR measurements also suggest a change
toward more static character of the magnetic phase with increasing
x.[35]

## III Discussion

Figure 8 shows the phase diagram determined against the Ge content (x)
on CeCu₂(Si_(1 − x)Ge_(x))₂ and the pressure on Ce_(0.99)Cu_(2.02)Si₂
(x = 0). Here we expect that a primary effect of the Ge doping is to
expand the lattice and that its chemical pressure is − 7.6 GPa per 100

The AFM order suddenly sets in once slight Ge is substituted for Si. By
contrast, any trace of AFM order is not observed down to 0.012 K at
x = 0. With increasing x, T_(N) is progressively increased, while T_(c)
is steeply decreased. Correspondingly, the slowly fluctuating AFM waves
are suppressed for the samples with more than x = 0.06. It is noteworthy
that the AFM order seems to suddenly disappear at x = 0 as if T_(N) was
replaced by T_(c). Eventually, the superconductivity coexists with the
marginal AFM state at x = 0. This fact suggests that antiferromagnetism
and superconductivity have a common background.

In 0< P < 0.2 GPa, the marginal AFM state is expelled by the onset of
superconductivity below T_(c) at H = 0. However, when H turns on to
suppress the superconductivity, the first-order like transition from SC
state to the magnetic phase A takes place.[5] In P > 0.2 GPa, the
marginal AFM state is completely suppressed and, at the same time, the
typical HF superconductivity is recovered with the line-node SC gap.

Next, we shed further light on the coexisting state by comparing with
the typical HF superconductor UPd₂Al₃ where the AFM order sets in below
T_(N) ∼ 14.5 K, followed by the onset of typical SC transition below
T_(c) ∼ 1.98 K.[44, 45, 46] In UPd₂Al₃, the coexistence of the AFM order
with the superconductivity has been established by various
measurements.[47, 48, 45, 49] The Al- and Pd-NQR results showed that
1/T₁ decreases rapidly because a gap opens at a part of the Fermi
surface below T_(N) and follows the 1/T₁ ∝ T³ below T_(c), consistent
with the line-node SC gap.[47, 48] In UPd₂Al₃, note that an average
occupation of 5f electrons per U atom is slightly less than three and
larger than one in Ce-based HF systems.[50] With some relevance with
this, nearly two localized 5f electrons are responsible for the AFM
order, carrying the relatively large spontaneous moment of 0.85μ_(B) per
U atom. Since the spin-wave excitations in the AFM state are gapped, the
particle-hole excitations in HF state are dominant well below T_(N), as
actually evidenced from the T₁T = const behavior typical for the Fermi
liquid state. Therefore, the 1/T₁ in the SC state is not affected by the
magnetic excitations even in the coexistent state, but reflects its line

Figure 8: The AFM and SC combined phase diagram for
CeCu₂(Si_(1 − x)Ge_(x))₂ and for Ce_(0.99)Cu_(2.02)Si₂ (x = 0) under
pressure. T_(N) (closed squares) and T_(c) (open circles) are the AFM
and SC transition temperature, respectively. Also shown are the
characteristic temperature to be scaled to the band width of HF state T*
(open squares) and T_(m) below which the marginal AFM state develops
(open triangles). The data for x = 0 under pressure are cited from a
previous paper (Ref. [17]).

node SC gap structure. However, the situation in underlying CeCu₂Si₂ is
completely different, because one 4f electron per Ce ion plays vital
roles for both the magnetism and the superconductivity, leading to the
novel interplay between the magnetism and the superconductivity revealed
in CeCu₂Si₂.

Apparently, the exotic AFM and SC phases in 0≤x< 0.06 may be new states
of matter. In a previous paper, [18] we proposed that the coexistence of
AFM and SC phases in the slightly Ge substituted compounds and the
magnetic-field induced phase A in 0<P<0.2 GPa are accounted for on the
basis of the SO(5) theory. [18, 20] It is considered that the marginal
AFM state in 0≤x<0.06 below T_(c) may be identified as a collective
magnetic mode in the coexisting phase and that it turns out to be
competitive with the onset of SC phase in 0<P<0.2 GPa at H= 0. The
latter is relevant to the emergence of the field-induced
first-order-like SC to magnetic phase A transition. Concerning the
interplay between magnetism and superconductivity, we would propose that
the marginal AFM state in the SC state at x= 0 may correspond to a
pseudo-Goldstone mode due to the broken U(1) symmetry. Due to the
closeness to a magnetic critical point, however, such a gapped mode in
the SC state should be characterized by an extremely tiny excitation
(resonance) energy. We thus believe that this SO(5) model could shed
light on the intimate interplay between magnetism and superconductivity
in CeCu₂Si₂ that has been an issue for over a decade.

Finally, we compare the present experimental results with those on
Ce_(0.973)Cu₂Si₂ (Ce0.975) where an AFM order was reported below T_(N)∼
0.6 K. [8, 13] Unlike the Ge substituted samples, any signature of
superconductivity was not observed and the AFM order persists up to P= 2
GPa in Ce0.975. [51] The recent NQR result under P at x= 0.02 has
revealed that the AFM order is suppressed and the HF superconductivity
with the line-node gap is recovered at small pressure. [40] These
results indicate that the AFM order in CeO.975 is driven by some
disorder effect that destroys the superconductivity. By contrast, the
AFM order at x= 0.02 is due to the lattice expansion by the Ge
substitution for Si. Therefore, the induced AFM order may be able to
coexist with the superconductivity without destroying it.

## IV Conclusion

We have investigated magnetic and superconducting properties in
CeCu₂(Si_(1 − x)Ge_(x))₂ with 0<x≈ 0.2 by means of the Cu-NQR
measurement. The Ge substitution for Si acts as a chemical negative
pressure. Once 1

###### Acknowledgements.

We thank A. Koda, W. Higemoto, and R. Kadono for valuable discussions.
This work was supported by the COE Research in Grant-in-Aid for
Scientific Research from the Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports,
Science and Technology of Japan (Grant No. 10CE2004). One of the authors
(Y.K.) was supported by the JSPS.

## References

* [1] D. Jaccard, K. Behnia, and J. Sierro, Phys. Lett. A **163**, 475
(1992). * [2] R. Movshovich, T. Graf, D. Mandrus, J. D. Thompson, J. L.
Smith, and Z. Fisk, Phys. Rev. B **53**, 8241 (1996). * [3] N. D.
Mathur, F. M. Grosche, S. R. Julian, I. R. Walker, D. M. Freye, R. K. W.
Haselwimmer, and G. G. Lonzarich, Nature (London) **394**, 39 (1998). *
[4] H. Hegger, C. Petrovic, E. G. Moshopoulou, M. F. Hundley, J. L.
Sarrao, Z. Fisk, and J. D. Thompson, Phys. Rev. Lett. **84**, 4986
(2000). * [5] G. Bruls, B. Wolf, D. Finsterbusch, P. Thalmeier, I.
Kouroudis, W. Sun, W. Assmus, B. Luthi, M. Lang, K. Gloos, F. Steglich,
and R. Modler, Phys. Rev. Lett. **72**, 1754 (1994). * [6] H. Nakamura,
Y. Kitaoka, H. Yamada, and K. Asayama, J. Magn. Magn. Mater. **76&77**,
517 (1988). * [7] Y. J. Uemura, W. J. Kossler, X. H. Yu, H. E. Schone,
J. R. Kempton, C. E. Stronach, S. Barth, F. N. Gygax, B. Hitti, A.
Schenck, C. Baines, W. F. Lankford, Y. Onuki, and T. Komatsubara, Phys.
Rev. B **39**, 4726 (1989). * [8] K. Ishida, Y. Kawasaki, K. Tabuchi, K.
Kashima, Y. Kitaoka, K. Asayama, C. Geibel, and F. Steglich, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **82**, 5353 (1999). * [9] R. Feyerherm, A. Amato, C. Geibel, F.
N. Gygax, P. Hellmann, R. H. Heffner, D. E. MacLaughlin, R.
Muller-Reisener, G. J. Nieuwenhuys, A. Schenk, and F. Steglich, Physica
B **206-207**, 596 (1995); Phys. Rev. B **56**, 699 (1997). * [10] A. W.
Hunt, P. M. Singer, K. R. Thurber, and T. Imai, Phys. Rev. Lett. **82**,
4300 (1999). * [11] N. J. Curro, P. C. Hammel, B. J. Suh, M. Hucker, B.
Buchner U. Ammerahl, and A. Revcolevschi, Phys. Rev. Lett. **85**, 642
(2000). * [12] F. Steglich, B. Buschinger, P. Gegenwart, M. Lohmann, R.
Helfrich, C. Langhammer, P. Hellmann, L. Donnevert, S. Thomas, A. Link,
C. Geibel, M. Lang, G. Sparn, and W. Assmus, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter
**8**, 9909 (1996). * [13] R. Modler, M. Lang, C. Geibel, C. Schank, R.
Muller-Reisener, P.

Hellmann, A. Link, G. Sparn, W. Assmus, and F. Steglich, Physica B
**206-207**, 586 (1995). * [14] P. Gegenwart, C. Langhammer, C. Geibel,
R. Helfrich, M. Lang, G. Sparn, F. Steglich, R. Horn, L. Donnevert, A.
Link, and W. Assmus, Phys. Rev. Lett. **81**, 1501 (1998). * [15] T.
Takimoto and T. Moriya, Phys. Rev. B **66**, 134516 (2002). * [16] A.
Koda, W. Higemoto, R. Kadono, Y. Kawasaki, K. Ishida, Y. Kitaoka, C.
Geibel, and F. Steglich, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **71**, 1327 (2002). * [17]
Y. Kawasaki, K. Ishida, T. Mito, C. Thessieu, G.-q. Zheng, Y. Kitaoka,
C. Geibel, and F. Steglich, Phys. Rev. B **63**, 140501(R) (2001). *
[18] Y. Kitaoka, K. Ishida, Y. Kawasaki, O. Trovarelli, C. Geibel, and
F. Steglich, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter **13**, L79 (2001). * [19] O.
Trovarelli, M. Weiden, R. Muller-Reisener, M. Gomez-Berisso, P.
Gegenwart, M. Deppe, C. Geibel, J. G. Sereni, and F. Steglich, Phys.
Rev. B **56**, 678 (1997). * [20] S. C. Zhang, Science **275**, 1089
(1997). * [21] G. Knebel, C. Eggert, D. Engelmann, R. Viana, A. Krimmel,
M. Dressel, and A. Loidl, Phys. Rev. B **53**, 11 586 (1996). * [22] G.
Knopp, A. Loidl, K. Knorr, L. Pawlak, M. Duczmal, R. Caspary, U.
Gottwick, H. Spille, F. Steglich, and A. P. Murani, Z. Phys. B: Condens.
Matter **77**, 95 (1989). * [23] T. C. Kobayashi, T. Miyazu, N.
Takeshita, K. Shimizu, K. Amaya, Y. Kitaoka, and Y. Onuki, J. Phys. Soc.
Jpn. **67**, 996 (1998). * [24] P. Gegenwart (unpublished). * [25] H.
Okura, K. Ishida, Y. Kawasaki, Y. Kitaoka, Y. Yamamoto, Y. Miyako, T.
Fukuhara, and K. Maezawa, Physica B **281-282**, 61 (2000). * [26] T.
Ohama, H. Yasuoka, D. Mandrus, Z. Fisk, and J. L. Smith, J. Phys. Soc.
Jpn. **64**, 2628 (1995). * [27] B. H. Grier, J. M. Lawrence, V. Murgai,
and R. D. Parks, Phys. Rev. B **29**, 2664 (1984). * [28] R. A. Steeman,
E. Frikkee, R. B. Helmholdt, A. A. Menovsky, J. van den Berg, G. J.
Nieuwenhuys, and J. A. Mydosh, Solid State Commun. **66**, 103 (1988). *
[29] T. Graf, M. F. Hundley, R. Modler, R. Movshovich, J. D. Thompson,
D. Mandrus, R. A. Fisher, and N. E. Phillips, Phys. Rev. B **57**, 7442
(1998). * [30] S. Kawarazaki, M. Sato, Y. Miyako, N. Chigusa, K.
Watanabe, N. Metoki, Y. Koike, and M. Nishi, Phys. Rev. B **61**, 4167
(2000). * [31] Y. Kawasaki, K. Ishida, Y. Kitaoka, and K. Asayama, Phys.
Rev. B **58**, 8634 (1998). * [32] C. Broholm, J. K. Kjems, W. J. L.
Buyers, P. Matthews, T. T. M. Palstra, A. A. Menovsky, and J. A. Mydosh,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **58**, 1467 (1987); C. Broholm, H. Lin, P. Matthews,
T. E. Mason, W. J. L. Buyers, M. F. Collins, A. A. Menovsky, J. A.
Mydosh, and J. K. Kjems, Phys. Rev. B **43**, 12 809 (1991). * [33] K.
Ueda, Y. Kitaoka, H. Yamada, Y. Kohori, T. Kohara, and K. Asayama, J.
Phys. Soc. Jpn. **56**, 867 (1987). * [34] W. Higemoto (unpublished). *
[35] A. Amato (unpublished). * [36] O. Stockert (private
communication). * [37] T. Moriya and T. Takimoto, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn.
**60**, 2122 (1992). * [38] S. Nakamura, T. Moriya, and K. Ueda, J.
Phys. Soc. Jpn. **65**, 4026 (1996). * [39] C. Thessieu, K. Ishida, S.
Kawasaki, T. Mito, Y. Kawasaki, G.-q. Zheng, Y. Kitaoka, and Y. Onuki,
Physica B **281-282**, 9 (2000). * [40] Y. Kawasaki, K. Ishida, K.
Obinata, T. Mito, G.-q. Zheng, Y. Kitaoka, C. Geibel, and F. Steglich,
Physica B **312-313**, 428 (2002). * [41] S. Schmitt-Rink, K. Miyake,
and C. M. Varma, Phys. Rev. Lett. **57**, 2575 (1986). * [42] K. Ishida,
Y. Kitaoka, N. Ogata, T. Kamino, K. Asayama, J. R. Cooper, and N.
Athanassopoulos, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **62**, 2803 (1993). * [43] Y.
Kitaoka, H. Tou, G.-q. Zheng, K. Ishida, K. Asayama, T. C. Kobayashi, A.
Kohda, N. Takashita, K. Amaya, C. Geibel, C. Schank, and F. Steglich,
Physica B **206-207**, 55 (1995). * [44] C. Geibel, C. Shank, S. Thies,
H. Kitazawa, C. D. Bredl, A. Bohm, M. Rau, A. Grauel, R. Caspary, R.
Helfrich, U. Ahlheim, G. Weber, and F. Steglich, Z. Phys. B: Condens.
Matter **84**, 1 (1991). * [45] N. Sato, N. Aso, G. H. Lander, B.
Roessli, T. Komatsubaru, and Y. Endoh, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **66**, 2981
(1997). * [46] N. Metoki, Y. Haga, Y. Koike, N. Aso, and Y. Onuki, J.
Phys. Soc. Jpn. **66**, 2560 (1997). * [47] H. Tou, Y. Kitaoka, K.
Asayama, C. Geibel, C. Schank, and F. Steglich, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn.
**64**, 725 (1995). * [48] K. Matsuda, Y. Kohori, and T. Kohara, Phys.
Rev. B **55**, 15 223 (1997). * [49] R. Caspary, P. Hellmann, M. Keller,
G. Sparn, C. Wassilew, R. Kohler, C. Geibel, C. Schank, F. Steglich, and
N. E. Phillips, Phys. Rev. Lett. **71**, 2146 (1993). * [50] S.
Yotsuhashi, H. Kusunose, and K. Miyake, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **70**, 186
(2001). * [51] Y. Kawasaki, K. Ishida, Y. Kitaoka, K. Asayama, Y.
Geibel, and F. Steglich, Physica B **282**, 14 (2000).
