High-temperature resistivity of _R_Ba₂Cu₃O_(7 − y), where R = La, Pr,
Nd, Sm, Eu, Dy, Ho, Er, and Tm

H. C. Yang

Department of Physics, National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan,
Republic of China

M. H. Hsieh

H. H. Sung

Department of Physics, National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan,
Republic of China

H. E. Horng

Y. S. Kan

H. C. Chen

Department of Physics, National Taiwan Normal University, Taipei,
Taiwan, Republic of China

J. C. Jao

Department of Physics, National Taiwan Normal University, Taipei,
Taiwan, Republic of China

###### Abstract

The electrical resistivity ρ of _R_Ba₂Cu₃O_(7 − y), where R = La, Pr,
Nd, Eu, Dy, Ho, Er, Sm, and Tm has been measured from room temperature
up to 900 K. No essential difference in the transport properties was
found except for LaBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − y) and PrBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − y), which shows an
anomaly in the electrical resistivity. SmBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − y) samples with
various oxygen contents are studied in detail. Metallic behavior and
linear temperature dependence of ρ have been found for SmBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − y)
with 0 < y < 0.227. The linear temperature dependence of ρ implies weak
electron-phonon coupling, which suggests that other mechanisms for
high-_T_(e)_ superconductivity are needed.

There has been much work [1, 2] on the superconducting properties of
_R_Ba₂Cu₃O_(7 − y). The x-ray data show that there is an
orthorhombic-to-tetragonal structural transformation.
[3]RBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − y), where R is a rare-earth element, shows similar
electric and magnetic properties. [4, 5] In many reports it has been
shown that an oxygen content of 7.0 gives the best orthorhombic
superconducting phase of YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − y). The resistivity is strongly
related to the oxygen deficiency at high temperatures. [6] Hence, the
oxygen content has been shown to be one of the main factors which
affects the physical properties of the high-_T_(e)_ superconductor
YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − y). [7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13] In this work we will study
the electrical resistivity of _R_Ba₂Cu₃O_(7 − y), where R = La, Pr, Nd,
Eu, Dy, Ho, Er, Sm, and Tm. SmBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − y) was chosen as a prototype
compound in studying the effects of oxygen contents on the
metal-semiconductor transition and superconductivity of
_R_Ba₂Cu₃O_(7 − y). We derive the electron-phonon coupling constant
$\lambda_{\rm tr}$ from the electric and magnetic data. The implication
of its value will be discussed.

The sample preparation used in this study was reported previously. [4]
The high- and low-temperature resistivity (ρ) measurements were
performed on two separate four-probe instruments with automated data
acquisition. At 300 K and higher temperatures, four Pt leads were
screwed tightly to a rectangular sample; silver paint was applied to
attach four Cu wires to the sample for low-temperature resistivity
experiments. A well-calibrated Pt thermometer was used to indicate the
temperature in the high-temperature range, and a reliable, calibrated
silicon diode was the temperature probe in the low-temperature range.
For both high- and low-temperature regions, the resistivity was obtained
from Linear Research LR 400 resistance bridge. Data points were less
than 0.2 K apart. These ρ-versus-temperature data were then used
directly in calculating derivatives and in other analyses. To prevent
the reabsorption of oxygen during high-temperature resistivity
measurements, about 1 atm flowing He gas was applied to the chamber.
After heating the sample to a certain maximum heating temperature
_T_(m)_, we cooled and heated the sample several times with the highest
temperature not exceeding _T_(m)_ and found that the resistivity curves
coincide. This tells us that the oxygen content of the sample in the
cooling resistivity measurements remained the same as that at _T_(m)_ in
our experiments.

Thermogravimetric analysis (TGA) data were taken on a du Pont 9900
thermal analysis system also with 1 atm flowing He gas in order to
indicate the oxygen content for the sample at _T_(m)_ during
high-temperature resistivity measurements.

Figure 1 shows lnρ as a function of T for _R_Ba₂Cu₃O_(7 − y). The arrows
indicate the temperatures where the structure transformation occurs for
_R_Ba₂Cu₃O_(7 − y). The rapid increase in ρ at T > 500 K is due to the
desorption of oxygen. Resistivity on cooling differed from

Figure 1: Temperature dependence of lnρ for _R_Ba₂Cu₃O_(7 − y), where R
= La, Pr, Nd, Eu, Dy, Ho, Er, and Tm. The arrows indicate the
temperature where the structural transformation occurs. Above _T₀_, the
resistivity increases for sample PrBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − y).

that on warming due to the reduction in oxygen content. This is
different from previous work [8] performed in air or oxygen which did
not show hysteresis if the cooling was swept slowly enough to allow the
oxygen to reach equilibrium. Similar features were found in the
temperature dependence of r, except for the cases of LaBa2Cu3O7-_y_ and
PrBa2Cu3O7-_y_. For LaBa2Cu3O7-_y_ the temperature dependence of r has a
relative maximum at 700 K, and a concave upward feature after cooling
the sample from high temperature. This anomaly in the resistivity
maximum has been rechecked and indeed exists. Two main factors can be
the causes: (1) a structural transformation which changes r from
metallic to semiconductive behavior, and (2) inhomogeneity in samples
and thermodynamic reaction. While this is less likely, it cannot
completely be ruled out. For PrBa2Cu3O7-_y_ the sample shows
semiconducting behavior. As the temperature of the sample is increased
from room temperature, the resistivity decreases. As one increases the
temperature above T0 (as shown in Fig. 1), the resistivity increases. In
this range (_T_ > T0) the desorption of oxygen causes the electrical
resistivity to increase.

Figure 2 shows the wt.

$$\frac{\text{wt.}\%}{100} = \frac{\text{weight of SmBa}_{2}\text{Cu}_{3} + 15.996(7 - _y_)}{\text{weight of SmBa}_{2}\text{Cu}_{3}\text{O}_{7}}$$

. In this figure, we find that a rapid increase in the oxygen desorption
rate occurs at T > 730 K and the data suggest that there is a
orthorhombic-to-tetragonal structural transformation. This observation
will also be discussed in relation to the resistivity data. The results
in Fig. 2 were our calibration standard in determining the oxygen
content for SmBa2Cu3O7-_y_ heated to _T_m. It is reasonable to conclude
that, because we have done the resistivity measurement along the heating
and cooling curves several times after _T_m annealing and found that the
cooling and heating curves overlap together, the phase is stabilized
after _T_m and oxygen desorption or reabsorption does not occur under
flowing He atmosphere.

For high-temperature resistivity measurements, _R_Ba2Cu3O7-_y_ was cut
into rectangular pieces. The precise relations between y and _T_m for
typical SmBa2Cu3O7-_y_ samples are listed in Table 1 (the symbols are
the same for Figs. 3 and 6).

The temperature dependence of r in high-_T_c oxides has been studied for
YBa2Cu3O7-_y_ up to 1200 K. [14] However, in these studies the thermal
desorption of oxygen at high temperature changed the oxygen contents and
the temperature dependence of r, which depends mainly on the phonon
scattering and vacancy scattering. If one can fix the oxygen content in
some way, then the temperature dependence of r depends only on the
phonon scattering. To obtain a sample with fixed oxygen content and also
perform the resistivity measurement at high temperature (_T_ < _T_m), we
have annealed the sample in helium atmosphere and simultaneously
monitored the electrical resistivity. The basic idea is that if we heat
the sample up to the highest temperature _T_m (heating rate  5deg/min),
then only a finite amount of oxygen will remain in the sample. If the
sample does not absorb oxygen while it is cooled from _T_m then the
oxygen content is fixed after cooling from _T_m. Indeed this idea has
been proven to be correct in the resistivity measurement, as we
mentioned earlier.

Figure 3 shows the resistivity loops for samples which show
superconductivity after cooling from _T_m. Several interesting features
were found in these loops. (1) For samples with y < 0.227 (see Table 1),
the temperature dependence of r in the cooling curve from 650 K down to
_T_c is linear. (2) For samples with 0.266 < y < 0.446, the temperature
dependence of r in the cooling curve shows semiconductivity before the
superconducting transition. And (3), hysteresis loops were found for all
samples. The linear temperature dependence of r up to high temperature
for fixed y is the essential finding in this work, especially the
temperature dependence of r up to _T_m for sample E which has the
highest _T_m and still shows metallic behavior.

Table 2: The structural transformation temperature ($T_{\rm OT}$)
derived from resistivity measurement; 7 − y is the oxygen content after
heating the sample to the highest temperature, E and ρ₀ are obtained
from Eq. (2).

  ------------------- --------- ------------------- ----------------- ------------- --------------------
                        X-ray                                                       
   R Ba₂Cu₃O_(7 − y)   density   $T_{c,\rm onset}$   $M/M_{\rm max}$   λ_(L)(→6 K)  
      (_R_ **=**)      (g/cm³)          (K)                (%)            (μm)       $\lambda_{\rm tr}$
           Y            6.324          90.53              60.45           0.391            0.275
          La            6.577          47.7               23.91           1.078            0.212
          Nd            6.746          87.6               28.01           0.802            0.113
          Sm            6.853          92.3               40.25           0.683            0.139
          Eu            6.880          93.8               39.91           0.691            0.145
          Dy            7.057          91.19              50.01           0.528            0.200
          Ho            7.095          89.39              45.68           0.593            0.257
          Er            7.139          91.10              62.70           0.356            0.375
          Tm            7.186          90.08              58.99           0.409            0.371
  ------------------- --------- ------------------- ----------------- ------------- --------------------

Table 3: X-ray density is derived from the x-ray lattice parameters
(taken from Ref. 4), and $T_{c,\rm onset}$ is the onset superconducting
transition temperature. $M/M_{\rm max}$ is the relative magnetization.
λ_(L)(∼6 K) is the London penetration depth and λ_(tr) is the
electron-phonon coupling constant for R Ba₂Cu₃O_(7 − y).

Figure 6: lnρ vs 1/T for semiconductive samples.

reported.4 However, the results obtained here are not quite similar.
Perhaps they are due to (1) different grain structures or (2) different
size distribution.

The magnetic field penetration depth can be derived if we know the
average size of the powders. Using an average value about 5 _m_m, which
is estimated using an optical microscope, the derived l_(L)(0)’s are
shown in Table 3, which has the same order of magnitude as that reported
in Ref. 13. However the l_(L)(0) is a bit larger compared with that
derived from the muon-spin resonance.20 Because of the anisotropy of the
field penetration depth, the penetration depth along the _a_-_b_ plane
is believed to be larger than that along the c axis. Perhaps the
muon-spin resonance measured the smaller value of the anisotropy while
the magnetic method measured the larger value of anisotropy.19

Chakraborty, Pickett, and Allen21 have proposed a scheme for analyzing
the phonon-limited resistivity of metals. The resistivity can be written
as

ρ = [(n/m^(*))e²]⁻¹(1/τ_(e ⋅ p))

,

$$n/m^{*} = \frac{1}{3}N(0)\langle \upsilon^{2}\rangle$$

, where 1/_t__e ⋅p_ is the electron-phonon scattering rate, _m_* is the
effective electron mass, n is the electron density, e is the electronic
charge, _N_(0) is the density of states at Fermi surface, and ⟨υ²⟩ is
the mean value of e2. A simple formula for the resistivity which holds
for T > th_D is

$$\rho = [(n/m^{*})e^{2}]^{- 1}h^{- 1}(2\pi\lambda_{\rm tr}k_{B}T)$$

. In the free-electron model, l_(L) can be expressed as

λ_(L)² = m^(*)/(ne²μ₀)

, where m0 is the permeability in free space.

Putting l_(L)(0) into Eq. (8), we obtain _m_*/_n_. Using these values of
_m_*/_n_ and Eq. (7), we derive _l__tr_’s for _R_Ba2Cu3O7-_y_ as shown
in Table 2. We noted that the r vs T data should be linear for T > th_D
in order to use Eq. (7) to derive _l__tr_’s. Indeed, we have found a
linear temperature dependence of _r_(_T_) up to 600 K for
_R_Ba2Cu3O7-_y_ in the metallic region. There is a scatter in the
derived _l__tr_’s, which are perhaps due to different grain structures.
It should be noted that we have overestimated the value of l_(L),
probably at least a factor of 2, due to the uncertainty in l_(L)(0)
determined from the magnetic measurement, which is about four times
larger than that derived from the muon-spin resonance.20 In addition, we
believe there are anisotropy effects in l_(L)(0) which are not
considered in our estimate of l_(L)(0).

Because the coupling constant in the theory of superconductivity is
closely related to the coupling constant l_(r) from resistivity,21 a
study of _l__tr_’s will help us understand the superconductivity of the
oxides. Recent calculations reported in Ref. 22 show that l = 0.31 for
YBa2Cu3O7-_y_. This is very similar in magnitude to the obtained
_l__tr_’s of _R_Ba2Cu3O7-_y_. This is not surprising because theory21
gives closely related expressions for these numbers. Our present results
show weak electron-phonon interaction, because the coupling constant
would predict T_(c)   0 K if McMillian’s23 theory is used with _m_* =
0.1 and if we assume l_(r).

In conclusion, we have systematically measured the temperature
dependence of r up to 900 K for _R_Ba2Cu3O7-_y_ samples. A linear
temperature dependence of r was found and the _r_-vs-_T_ curve in a
cycle is hysteretic. The hysteresis in r is reasonable because it was
performed under helium atmosphere, so the oxygen content is different
after heating the sample up to high temperature. The coupling constant
l_(r), extracted from the linearity and field penetration depth, shows
weak electron-phonon coupling. This suggests high-_T__c_
superconductivity must be nonphononic in origin.15

## References

* [*] Present address: Provincial Chia-Yi Teachers College, Chia-Yi,
Taiwan, Republic of China. * [+] Present address: National Defense
Medical Center, Taipei, Taiwan, Republic of China. * [3] T. P. Orlando,
K. K. Delin, S. Foner, E. J. McNiff, Jr., J. M. Tarascon, L. H. Greene,
M. R. McKinnon, and G. W. Hull, Phys. Rev. B **36**, 2394 (1987). * [4]
E. D. Specht, C. J. Sparks, A. G. Dhere, J. Brynestad, O. B. Cavin, D.
M. Kroeger, and H. A. Oye, Phys. Rev. B **37**, 7426 (1988). * [5] T.
Hatano, A. Matsushita, K. Nakamura, Y. Sokka, T. Matsumoto, and K.
Ogawa, Jpn. J. Appl. Phys. Pt. 2 **26**, L721 (1987). * [6] H. E. Horng,
Physica B **108**, 472 (1987). * [7] T. Kobayashi, T. Takahashi, M.
Tonouchi, Y. Fujiwara, and S. Kita, Jpn. J. Appl. Phys. Pt. 2 **26**,
L1381 (1987).

* [66] T. K. Chaki and M. Rubinstein, Phys. Rev. B **36**, 7259
(1987). * [67] J. D. Jorgensen, B. W. Veal, W. K. Kwok, G. W. Crabtree,
A. Umezawa, L. J. Nowicki, and A. P. Paulikas, Phys. Rev. B **36**, 5731
(1987). * [68] J. D. Jorgensen, M. A. Beno, D. G. Hinks, L. Soderholm,
K. J. Volin, R. L. Hitterman, J. D. Grace, I. K. Schuller, C. U. Segre,
K. Zhang, and M. S. Kleefisch, Phys. Rev. B **36**, 3608 (1987). * [69]
R. Beyers, G. Lim, E. M. Engler, V. Y. Lee, M. L. Ramirez, R. J. Savoy,
R. D. Jacowitz, T. M. Shaw, S. La Placa, R. Boehme, C. C. Tsuei, Sung I.
Park, M. W. Shafer, and W. J. Gallagher, Appl. Phys. Lett. **51**, 614
(1987). * [70] A. Santoro, S. Miraglia, F. Beech, S. A. Sunshine, S. W.
Murphy, L. F. Shneemeyer, and J. V. Waszczak, Mater. Res. Bull. **22**,
1007 (1987). * [71] R. C. Budhani, Sing-Mo H. Tzeng, and R. F. Bunshah,
Phys. Rev. B **36**, 8873 (1987). * [72] P. P. Freitas and T. S.
Plaskett, Phys. Rev. B **37**, 3657 (1988). * [73] W. K. Kwok, G. W.
Crabtree, A. Umezawa, B. W. Veal, J. D. Jorgensen, S. K. Malik, L. J.
Nowicki, A. P. Paulikas, and L. Nunez, Phys. Rev. B **37**, 106
(1988). * [74] A. T. Fiory, M. Gurvitch, R. J. Cava, and G. P. Espinosa,
Phys. Rev. B **36**, 7262 (1987). * [75] M. Guritch and A. T. Fiory,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **59**, 1337 (1987). * [76] J. M. Sanchez, F. Mejia,
and J. L. Moran-Lopez, Phys. Rev. B **37**, 3678 (1988). * [77] D. K.
Finnemore, R. N. Shelton, J. R. Clem, R. W. McCallum, H. C. Ku, R. E.
McCarley, S. C. Chen, P. Klavins, and V. Kogan, Phys. Rev. B **35**,
5319 (1987). * [78] D. E. Farrel, M. R. DeGuire, B. S. Chandrasekhar, S.
A. Atterovitz, P. R. Aron, and R. L. Fagaly, Phys. Rev. B **35**, 8797
(1987). * [79] J. R. Cooper, C. T. Chu, L. W. Zhou, B. Dunn, and G.
Gruner, Phys. Rev. B **37**, 638 (1988). * [80] Y. J. Uemura _et al._,
Phys. Rev. B **38**, 909 (1988). * [81] B. Chakraborty, W. E. Pickett,
and P. B. Allen, Phys. Rev. B **14**, 3277 (1976). * [82] P. B. Allen
and W. E. Pickett, Phys. Rev. B **37**, 7482 (1988). * [83] W. L.
McMillan, Phys. Rev. **167**, 2 (1968); **167**, 331 (1968).
