# Upper critical field in the electron-doped layered superconductor
ZrNCl0.?:

Magnetoresistance studies

H. Tou,^(1, *) Y. J. Tanaka,¹ M. Sera,¹ Y. Taguchi,^(2, 3) T. Sasaki,²
Y. Iwasa,^(2, 3) L. Zhu,⁴ and S. Yamanaka⁴

¹Department of Quantum Matter, AMSM, Hiroshima University,
Higashi-Hiroshima, 739-8530, Japan

²Institute for Materials Research, Tohoku University, Sendai 980-8577,
Japan

³CREST, Japan Science and Technology Agency (JST), Kawaguchi, 333-0012,
Japan

⁴Department of Applied Chemistry, Graduate School of Engineering,
Hiroshima University, Higashi-Hiroshima 739-8527, Japan

20 April 2005; published 8 July 2005

###### Abstract

We report magnetoresistance measurements of layered superconductor
ZrNCl0.? at high magnetic fields (H) as high as 27 T and temperatures
(T) as low as 0.5 K. The T dependence of the upper critical field
H_(c2)(T) for H≤c and H≤c was obtained. H_(c2)(T) starts to increase
with a gentle slope near T_(c)(0) followed by a steep slope with
decreasing T, implying the dimensional crossover of the interplane
coherence length from three dimensional to two dimensional (2D). The
H_(c2)(T) is found to be anisotropic for the field direction, where the
slope of H_(c2)^(′)=(dH_(c2)/dT) near H≈ 1 T can be estimated as
$H_{c2}^{+\frac{1}{2}}$∼ -22.1 kOe/K and H_(c2)^(′1)≈→4.9 kOe/K for H≤c
and H≤c, respectively. The obtained anisotropy parameter γ≈4.5 gives
evidence for the 2D characteristic of the superconducting state in
ZrNCl0.?

pacs: 20 April 2005; published 8 July 2005

Layer-structured β-MNCl (M = Hf, Zr), which is an insulator having a
band gap of ∼4.3-5 eV, was found to change into a superconductor with a
small amount of alkali intercalation.¹ The highest superconducting
transition temperature, T_(c)∼ 25.5 K, was recorded for
Li0.48(THF),HfNCl (THF; tetrahydrofuran C₄H₈O). Recently, Zhu and
co-workers found that an insulating β-MNCl becomes superconducting
through partial deintercalation of the chlorine layers.³ These systems
have layered structure stacking of Cl-[MN]-[NM]-Cl slabs along the c
axis perpendicular to the slab.² Recent experimental^(4, 5) and
theoretical studies^(6, −8) have demonstrated a two-dimensional (2D)
electronic state for which the superconductivity is derived from the 2D
double [MN] honeycomb network. An unusual superconducting mechanism has
been suggested^(9, −12) Ito _et al._ claimed that the 2D superfluid
density n_(s, 22)/m_(ab)³ (superconducting carrier density/effective
mass) is a dominant determining factor for the high T_(c) in MNCl
superconductors from μSR results.¹³

The anisotropy of the upper critical field H_(c2)(T) was first reported
for Li-doped HfNCl.⁴ However, lack of experimental data renders it
impossible to discuss the T dependence of H_(c2) at T→ 0. Furthermore,
T_(c)=25.5 K for Li-doped HfNCl is too high to determine the whole
H_(c2) versus T phase. Recently, Ito _et al._ reported that the
anisotropy ratio of H_(c2) for H≤c (H_(c2)⁺) to that for H∣c (H_(c2)⁺)
in Li0.17ZrNCl is roughly 3 (Ref. [13]). The entire H_(c2) versus T
phase, however, has not been put forth yet. Together with results of
Li-HfNCl (Refs. [4; 9]), the characteristics of the 2D superconducting
state are believed to be important for the electron-doped MNCl system.
Further measurements are required to clarify the intriguing
superconducting properties in MNCl superconductors. In this sense, the
studies of ZrNCl0.7 or Li,ZrNCl having lower T_(c)∼ 13 K might allow us
to cover the whole H_(c2) versus T phase diagram, thereby bringing about
intrinsic behavior of the quasi-2D superconductors. For those reasons,
this study is intended to determine the H_(c2) versus T phase diagram
for Cl-deintercalated β-ZrNCl (ZrNCl0.7) with T_(c)∼ 13 K.

Details of sample preparation and characterization for ZrNCl0.7 have
been reported elsewhere.¹⁴ The powder sample was pressed into pellet
form to orient ZrN planes (_ab_ plane) under 1.5 kbar (150 MPa) in argon
atmosphere.⁴ Four oriented pellets, Nos. 1-4 were thus prepared. X-ray
rocking curve measurements revealed that the _ab_ plane of the crystals
were oriented in the pellets with full width at half maximum (FWHM) of
less than 7^(∘). Resittivity measurements were carried out using a four
probe dc/ac method in the T range of 0.5-300 K. Here, the samples were
treated carefully in a glove box with high-purity He gas. The current
and voltage leads were connected to the sample using silver paste with a
toluene solvent; then they were covered with epoxy (stycast 1266) to
prevent their degradation by exposure to moisture and oxygen. A magnetic
field was provided by a conventional solenoid-type superconducting
magnet in the field range of H=0-15 T, and by a hybrid magnet up to H=27
T at the High Field Laboratory for superconducting materials, IMR,
Tohoku University. We also confirmed magnetization characteristics at
various fields up to 5 T. Magnetic measurements showed that the
substantial diamagnetic signals become apparent as the magnetic field
increases above 1 T (not shown). These features are qualitatively
identical to those for Li-HfNCl reported previously,⁴ in which the
lowest-Landau-level (LLL) scaling analysis for the 2D superconducting
fluctuations was adopted.¹⁵

Figure 1 shows typical interplane resistivity ρ_(c) for the current
direction of ∣c (hereafter denoted as I_(c)) for sample No. 4 and
in-plane resistivity ρ_(ab) for I⊥c (hereafter denoted as I_(ab)) for
sample No. 2. The negative slope of resistivity dρ(T)/dT< 0 was observed
in the normal state near T_(c). Similar behavior of the T dependence of
resistivity was observed previously in Li0.17ZrNCl by Ito _et al._;¹³
that study indicated that dρ(T)/dT< 0 is not intrinsic, but rather
extrinsic because of grain boundaries. Actually, dρ(T)/dT< 0 of the
present ZrNCl_(0.7) depends strongly on the sample, but T_(c) hardly
depends on it.

The remarkable feature in ρ(T) is that the interplane resistivity
ρ_(c)(T) is about one hundred times larger than the in-plane resistivity
ρ_(ab)(T), i.e., ρ_(c)/ρ_(ab) = 10², but it is difficult to evaluate the
absolute value of ρ_(c) accurately because of experimental problems
including the terminal connection for the fragile pellet, anaerobic
character, and misalignment effects. This feature indicates that the
charge transfer between the layers is weak, being consistent with the 2D
character of the electronic structure.[4, 5, 6, 7, 8] Similar but more
pronounced anisotropy of resistivity has been reported for layered
organic superconductors, e.g., ρ_(c)/ρ_(ab) ≈ 10³ in
κ-(BEDT-TTF)₂Cu[N(CN)₂]Br. (Ref. [16]).

Figure 2 depicts the field-angle dependence of the resistivity at
H  =  8 T and T  =  8 K. A clear but broad dip of the resistivity was
observed for sample No. 2, reflecting the anisotropy of the
superconducting state. Similar behavior was observed in other samples.
Such broad dips indicate a considerably misaligned orientation. Although
the x-ray rocking curve measurement indicated the highly oriented
characteristic of the sample, it might overestimate the grain alignment
in this pellet.

The T dependence of the resistivity under different magnetic fields with
H  ⊥ c and H  ⊥ c is shown in Fig. 3. As mentioned previously, the
observed superconducting transition for H  ⊥ c might be broadened by
both the grain boundaries and misalignment effects. On the other hand,
we note here that, for H  ∥ c, the respective broadenings of the
resistive transitions are more remarkable than that for H  ⊥ c;
substantial suppression of T_(c)(H) is observed. These features are
consistent with results of magnetization measurements near T_(c). Such
broadening of the superconducting transitions in resistivity and
magnetization for H  ∥ c is typical of low- dimensional superconductors.
It is a natural consequence of the existence of superconducting
fluctuations.[4, 15]

Figure 4 shows magnetoresistance for H  ⊥ c and fields up to 27 T at
different temperatures from T  =  13 to 0.5 K. The dashed line in the
figure is the line expected from the linear extrapolation of the
normal-state resistivity in Fig. 3(a). As mentioned in the previous
text, the broad resistive transitions might be ascribed to both the
grain boundaries and misalignment effects.

The T dependence of the H_(c2)(T) for H  ⊥ c and H  ∥ c is illustrated
in Fig. 5. Here, T_(c) is tentatively defined by an 80

Figure 2: Field-angle dependence of resistivity for H  =  8 T and
T  =  8 K.

Figure 3: Temperature dependence of the resistivity of ZrNCl_(0.7) for
H  ⊥ c and H  ∥ c for various magnetic fields. The dashed line in (a)
represents the linear extrapolation of the normal-state resistivity.

Figure 1: Temperature dependence of interplane resistivity ρ_(c)
(I  ∥ c, sample No. 4) and inline resistivity ρ_(ab) (I  ⊥ c sample No.
2).

dimensional (3D) to 2D caused by T dependence of the coherence length
ξ(T). Under high magnetic fields that are stronger than 1 T, the slope
H_(c2)^(′)=(dH_(c2)/dT) yields a value of H_(c2)^(′+)=−22.1 kOe/K and
H_(c2)^(′−)=−4.9 kOe/K, respectively. The value of H_(c2)^(′)(0) is
expected to be less than ≈7 T, and is consistent with previous results
by Ito _et al._[13]

In general for layered superconductors, either the anisotropic
Ginzburg-Landau (GL) model [17] or the 2D Lawrence-Doniach (LD) model
[18] can be utilized, depending on the interlayer interaction in which
the crossover from the LD to the GL regimes occurs at the boundary
condition of ξ_(c)=$dI\sqrt{2}$ with interlayer spacing d. The
anisotropy parameter γ of the anisotropic GL model can be estimated as
γ=H_(c2)^(⊥)/H_(c2)^(∥)= 4.5, which is direct evidence for quasi-2D
aspects of the superconducting state. The GL coherence length ξ is
calculated as ξ_(ab)= 71 A and ξ_(c)= 16 A, using relations
−H_(c2)^(⊥)T_(c)=ϕ₀/(2πξ_(ab)^(⊥))T_(c) and γ=ξ_(ab)/ξ_(c) (Ref. [17]).

We next compare with Li-doped HfNCl homologue. In Li-HfNCl, ξ_(c)= 15.9
A is shorter than d≈ 19 A, indicating Josephson coupling between the
adjacent layers. [4] In addition, ⁷Li, ³⁹Cl, and ¹⁵N NMR Knight-shift
studies clarified that superconductivity is derived from the HfN layer.
[4, 9, 10] It is noteworthy that γ= 4.5 for ZrNCl is larger than Γ= 3.7
for the Li-HfNCl homologue. [4] Within the framework of the anisotropic
GL model, we expect γ(ZrNCl) <γ(Li-HfNCl) using the relations of
d(ZrNCl) <d(Li-HfNCl) and ξ_(c)(ZrNCl) ∼ξ_(c)(Li-HfNCl). [4] On the
other hand, the experimental result, γ(ZrNCl) >γ(Li-HfNCl), implies that
the superconductivity of MNCl is independent of the interlayer spacing.
Actually, the μSR studies for a Li-doped ZrNCl system by Ito _et
al._[13] also demonstrated that T_(c), ξ_(ab) and n_(x)/m^(*) are
independent of the interlayer distance, suggesting a highly 2D character
of the superconductivity in MNCl. As mentioned previously, both the
grain boundaries and misalignment effects are inevitable in the present
sample, where misalignment by several degrees would lower the measured
H_(c2)(0) by several tesla. [19] If the upturn of the H_(c2)(2) curve in
the vicinity of H=0 is attributable to the 3D-2D crossover, a more
realistic value of ξ_(c) of ZrNCl_(0.7) would be several angstrom; the
estimated H_(c2)^(⊥)∼ 27 T might be underestimated, implying that γ>4.5.

We found that the observed H_(c2)^(⊥)(T) decreases linearly as T_(c)−T
at T→ 0. The Werthamer-Helfand-Hohenberg (WHH) theory predicts that
H_(c2)(T) at T→ 0 K is fundamentally determined by the initial slope of
the H_(c2) versus T curve, but is suppressed as
H_(c2, 0)=a(−dH_(c2)/dT)_(T_(c))T_(c) (a=0.73 for clean limit; a=0.69
for dirty limit) by the orbital pair-breaking effect. [20, 21]
Furthermore, for spin-singlet superconductors, H_(c2) is suppressed by
the Pauli paramagnetic pair-breaking limit defined by
H_(p)=$\Delta/\sqrt{2}\mu_{0}$, where Δ and μ₀ are the superconducting
energy gap and the magnetic moment of electrons. [22, 23, 24]

If we apply the WHH theory for the clean limit case to H_(c2)^(⊥) of the
present system, H_(c2, 0)(0) can be estimated as =18.4 kOe using
H_(c2)^(′⊥)=−22.1 kOe/K. We can also estimate the BCS Pauli limit as
H_(p)= 23.5 T with T_(c)=12.8 K and Δ= 3.5k_(B)T_(c). The solid line in
Fig. 5 is the theoretical curve expected from the WHH relation for 3D
superconductors. Within the conventional BCS framework, the relation of
H_(p)>H_(c2, 0)(0) suggests that H_(c2)^(⊥) should be limited by the
orbital effect, i.e., H_(c2, 0)(0). For a layered superconductor in the
LD regime, on the other hand, when the field is applied parallel to the
plane (H⊥c), the kinetic energy of the orbital motion of the pairs
caused by the magnetic field is depressed because of the weak electron
transfer between layers. Consequently, the orbital limit becomes much
higher than the expected value from the WHH relation. Although the
obtained H_(c2)^(⊥)(0) seems to break through H_(p)=23.5 T, it can be
reconciled by taking account of either the strong-coupling effect,
2Δ=5k_(B)T_(c) (Ref. [25]), or reduction of the g factor. It is worth
emphasizing that the observed T dependence of H_(c2)^(⊥)(T) is
ascribable to the 2D character of the superconducting state.

In summary, we have measured the resistivity of oriented polycrystals
ZrNCl_(0.7). Magnetoresistance measurements have demonstrated
anisotropic superconducting properties of the present material, which
closely resemble those of the Li-doped HfNCl. The estimated anisotropy
parameter

Figure 4: Magnetoresistance ρ(H) at selected temperatures. In the T
range of 4−13 K, ρ(H) was measured for sample No. 1 using a
solenoid-type superconducting magnet; in the T range of 0.5−4 K, ρ(H)
was measured for sample No. 3 using the hybrid magnet. The dashed line
in the figure is the line expected from linear extrapolation of the
normal-state resistivity in Fig. 3(a).

Figure 5: Temperature dependence of the upper critical field H_(c2) for
H⊥c and H∥c. The transition temperature T_(c)(H) was determined by the
80

$\gamma^{\rm{tot}}$= 4.5 gives evidence for a 2D characteristic of the
superconducting state in ZrNCl_(0.7). The present studies were performed
for oriented pellets, not for single-crystals, which would engender
underestimation of the anisotropy of the superconductivity. Measurements
using single-crystal samples are necessary to clarify the anisotropy of
the superconducting state.

## References

* [1] S. Yamanaka, K. Hotehama, and H. Kawaji, Nature (London) **392**,
580 (1998): S. Yamanaka, Annu. Rev. Mater. Sci. **30**, 53 (2000). * [2]
S. Shamoto _et al._, Physica C **306**, 7 (1998); J. Phys. Chem. Solids
**60**, 1431 (1999). * [3] L. Zhu and S. Yamanaka, Chem. Mater. **15**,
1897 (2003). * [4] H. Tou, Y. Maniwa, T. Koiwasaki, and S. Yamanaka,
Phys. Rev. B **63**, 020508(R) (2000). * [5] H. Tou, Y. Maniwa, and S.
Yamanaka, Phys. Rev. B **67**, 100509(R) (2003). * [6] C. Felser and R.
Seshadri, J. Mater. Chem. **9**, 459 (1999). * [7] R. Weht, A.
Filippetti, and W. E. Pickett, Europhys. Lett. **48**, 320 (1999). * [8]
I. Hase and Y. Nishihara, Phys. Rev. B **60**, 1573 (1999); Physica B
**281&282**, 788 (2000). * [9] H. Tou, Y. Maniwa, T. Koiwasaki, and S.
Yamanaka, Phys. Rev. Lett. **86**, 5775, (2001). * [10] H. Tou, Y.
Maniwa, S. Yamanaka, and M. Sera, Physica B **329-333**, 1323 (2003). *
[11] A. Bill, H. Morawitz, and V. Z. Kresin, Phys. Rev. B **66**,
100501(R) (2002). * [12] A. Bill, H. Morawitz, and V. Z. Kresin, Phys.
Rev. B **68**, 144519 (2003). * [13] T. Ito, Y. Fudamoto, A. Fukaya, I.
M. Gat-Malureanu, M. I. Larkin, P. L. Russo, A. Savici, Y. J. Uemura, K.
Groves, R. Breslow, K. Hotehama, S. Yamanaka, P. Kyriakou, M. Rovers, G.
M. Luke, and K. M. Kojima, Phys. Rev. B **69**, 134522 (2004). * [14] L.
Zhu and S. Yamanaka, Chem. Mater. **15**, 1897 (2003). * [15] S. Ullah
and A. T. Dorsey, Phys. Rev. B **44**, 262 (1991). * [16] S. Kamiya, Y.
Shimojo, M. A. Tanatar, T. Ishiguro, H. Yamochi, and G. Saito, Phys.
Rev. B **65**, 134510 (2002). * [17] T. P. Orlando _et al._, Phys. Rev.
B **19**, 4545 (1979). * [18] W. E. Lawrence and S. Doniach, in
_Proceedings of the 12th International Conference on Low Temperature
Physics_, edited by E. Kanda (Academic Press of Japan, Kyoto, 1971), p.
361. * [19] J. Singleton, J. A. Symington, M.-S. Nam, A. Ardavan, M.
Karnoo, and P. Day, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter **12**, L641 (2000). *
[20] E. Helfand and N. R. Werthamer, Phys. Rev. **147**, 288 (1966). *
[21] N. R. Werthamer, E. Helfand, and P. C. Hohenberg, Phys. Rev.
**147**, 295 (1966). * [22] A. M. Clogston, Phys. Rev. Lett. **9**, 266
(1962). * [23] B. S. Chandraskhar, Appl. Phys. Lett. **1**, 7 (1962). *
[24] K. Maki, Phys. Rev. **148**, 362 (1966). * [25] T. Ekino, T.
Takasaki, H. Fujii, and S. Yamanaka, Physica B **388-389**, 573 (2003).
