# Superconductivity and magnetism of a body-centered tetragonal ErRh4B4
single crystal.

II. Large anisotropy of _H_c2

H. Iwasaki and Y. Muto

The Research Institute for Iron, Steel and Other Metals, Tohoku
University, Sendai 980, Japan

###### Abstract

Upper critical field _H_c2 and magnetization are measured on a single
crystal of body-centered tetragonal (bct) ErRh4B4 which is an
antiferromagnetic superconductor and behaves metamagnetically in the c
plane under a magnetic field below _T__(N). The temperature dependences
of _H_c2 along the [001] and [100] axes are roughly similar to each
other in that both _H_c2(_T_) take maxima with decreasing temperature
but the magnitude of _H_c2 along the [001] axis is quite large compared
to that along the [100] axis. Furthermore, the angular dependence of
_H_c2 in the c plane shows the fourfold anisotropy above _T__(N) and the
complex twofold anisotropy below _T__(N). The anisotropy of _H_c2 is
close-ly related with that of the magnetization. From the analysis in
which the spin polarization due to the _s-f_ exchange interaction and
the electromagnetic interaction are taken into account it is made clear
that the spin polarization plays a very important role in determining
_H_c2. The _s-f_ exchange constant and the spin-orbit scattering
parameter are also determined. It is indicated that the _s-f_ exchange
interaction is ferromagnetic and the spin-orbit scattering is very
strong in the bct ErRh4B4 crystal. Finally temperature dependence of
_H_c2 in the c plane below _T__(N) is qualitatively discussed, being
connected with metamagnetism.

## I Introduction

Magnetic superconductor ${\cal{B}}$Rh4B4 (${\cal{B}}$ is a rare-earth
metal) compounds have been intensively studied in order to understand
the interplay between superconductivity and magnetism.[1] So far, three
kinds of ${\cal{B}}$Rh4B4 compounds have been discovered: (i) The
CeCoBa4 type with primitive tetragonal (pt) structure.[2] The pt
${\cal{B}}$Rh4B4 compounds are the most familiar magnetic
superconductors and there are many studies on these compounds. ErRh4B4
with this structure is a typical ferromagnetic superconductor and shows
a reentrant behavior.[3] (ii) The LuRuBa4 type with body-centered
tetragonal (bct) structure.[4] Although the bet phase has been
stabilized only in the pseudoternary ${\cal{B}}$(Ru1_(−x)Rh_(x))4B4,[4]
we succeed in obtaining ErRh4B4 with this structure which is an
antiferromagnetic superconductor.[5] (iii) The LuRh4B4 type with
orthorhombic structure.[6] The superconducting transition temperatures
of several compounds have been reported.[7]

It is expected that in the magnetic superconductor the magnetic
anisotropy influences superconducting properties such as the upper
critical field _H_c2 because exchange interaction exists between the
superconducting electrons and the magnetic ions. It has been highly
desirable to make a study of a single crystal of the magnetic
superconductor in order to obtain precise information on the interplay
between superconductivity and magnetism.

Recently, we succeeded in preparing a bct ErRh4B4 single crystal[8; 9]
and found for the first time the anisotropy of _H_c2 among a number of
antiferromagnetic superconductors. In this paper we discuss the
relationship between the anisotropy of _H_c2 and magnetization. The
experimental procedure is briefly described in Sec. II; the experimental
results are presented in Sec. III and discussions are given in Sec. IV.
A brief report of the _H_c2 anisotropy was reported elsewhere.[9]
Experimental results on magnetization and a detailed analysis are
described in the preceding paper[10] referred to as paper I.

## II Experimental

_H_c2 was measured by an ac resistive method, sweeping the magnetic
field at a constant temperature. _H_c2 was defined by the linearly
extrapolated field of the transition curve to zero resistance. A ³He-4He
dilution refrigerator was used in the measurements below 1 K. The bct
ErRh4B4 single crystal which was synthesized by induction heating is the
same as that in the preceding paper I. LuRh4B4, the body-centered
tetragonal structure, was also synthesized by induction heating, as a
reference sample. The bct LuRh4B4 sample is polycrystalline and was
annealed for two weeks at 1050 degC, being covered with a Ta foil and
sealed into a quartz tube under Ar atmosphere. This sample contains a
small quantity of RhB as an impurity phase.

## III Results

The residual resistivity just above _T__(c) and the residual resistance
ratio (RRR) of the bct ErRh4B4 sample are r02 65 μΩ cm and a RRR of
1.70, respectively. Those of the bct LuRh4B4 sample are r02 60 μΩ cm and
a RRR of 1.65. These values are roughly common throughout the bct
${\cal{B}}$Rh4B4 compounds, and r0 is large by a figure compared with
those in the pt ${\cal{B}}$Rh4B4 compounds. The large residual
resistivity suggests that the bct ${\cal{B}}$Rh4B4 compounds are dirty
superconductors. The superconducting transition temperature _T__(c) and
the Neel temperature _T__(N) of the bct ErRh4B4 sample are 7.80 and 0.65
K, respectively.

The magnetization process of bct ErRh4B4 has been described in paper I.
The results of the magnetization measurements in the superconducting
paramagnetic state are summarized as follows. The [001] axis is the
hard-magnetization direction. Large fourfold magnetic anisotropy exists
in the c plane. The [100] axis is the easy-magnetization direction and
the [110] axis is the hard-magnetization direction in the c plane. In
the field range in which the sample shows the transition from the
superconducting state to the normal one, the magnetization shows
anisotropy due to the fourfold magnetic anisotropy. The magnetization
values _M_(_H_e_2) at _H_e_2 for **H**||[100] and **H**||[110] are
nearly equal to each other in spite of the fact that _H_e_2 takes
different values for both directions.

Below T_(N) the magnetization curves for **H**||[100] show two-step
jumps exhibiting hysteresis for increasing and decreasing fields.
Similar magnetization curves with the two-step jumps are also observed
for **H**||[010]. On the other hand, the magnetization for **H**||[110]
shows a one-step jump. The magnetization process observed below T_(N) is
understood as metamagnetism under the fourfold magnetic anisotropy.

Figure 1 shows the temperature dependence of _H_e_2 in the [001], [100],
and [110] directions. _H_e_2 along the [001] direction which is the axis
of hard magnetization is very large compared with those in the c plane.
It increases monotonically down to 1.5 K, decreases a little at lower
temperatures, and is almost constant below T_(N). The _H_e_2(_T_) curve
in the [100] direction takes a maximum at about 4.5 K and gradually
decreases at lower temperatures. The inset in Fig. 1 shows _H_e_2(_T_)
along the [100] and [110] directions around T_(N) in the enlarged _H_e_2
scale. _H_e_2 along the [100] direction takes a dip at 0.6 K, which is
nearly equal to T_(N). The anisotropy of _H_e_2 is also observed in the
c plane. _H_e_2 along the [110] direction is always higher than that
along the [100] direction above T_(N). However, _H_e_2 along both the
[100] and [110] directions coincides at 0.3 K and _H_e_2 along the [100]
direction is higher than that along the [110] direction below 0.3 K.

The angular dependences of the upper critical field _H_e_2(_th_) in the
c plane at 7.0, 4.3, and 0.5 K are shown in Figs. 2(a), 2(b) and 2(c),
respectively. _H_e_2(_th_) at 7.0 K just

Figure 1: Temperature dependence of _H_e_2 of bet ErRh4B4 (a) for
**H**||[001], **H**||[100], and **H**||[110]. The dashed curve in (a)
shows _H_e_2 after the demagnetization correction. In the inset _H_e_2
in the c plane around T_(N) is shown in the enlarged scale.

Figure 2: Angular dependence of _H_e_2 of bet ErRh4B4 (a) at 7.0 K just
below T_(e), (b) at 4.3 K, and (c) at 0.5 K, below T_(N).

below T_(e) shows nearly no anisotropy. H_(e2)(θ) at 4.3 K almost shows
the fourfold anisotropy with the magnitude of 12

$$\frac{H_{e2_{\rm max}}{-}H_{e2_{\rm min}}}{H_{e2_{\rm min}}}\ .$$
(1)

The minima of H_(e2) appear in the [100] and [010] directions which are
the axes of easy magnetization, and the maxima of H_(e2) are in the
[110] and [1$\bar{1}$0] directions which are the axes of hard
magnetization in the e plane. It should be noted that H_(e2) values are
clearly different between the crystallographically equivalent [100] and
[010] directions, though both take minima. The discrepancy is beyond the
limit of demagnetization correction. This is also observed in the
magnetization measurements (see paper I), where the small magnetic
anisotropy between the [100] and [010] axes exists in this sample. This
is also apparent in the angular dependence of H_(e2) at 0.5 K just below
T_(N). However, Fig. 2(c) shows that H_(e2)(θ) does not show the
fourfold anisotropy, but the complex twofold anisotropy. Only H_(e2)
along the [100] direction takes a minimum. The magnitude of anisotropy
amounts to 28

Figures 3(a) and 3(b) show the temperature dependence of the anisotropy
of H_(e2) between principal axes in the c plane and the a plane,
respectively. The definition of anisotropy is given in Figs. 3(a) and
3(b). The anisotropy of H_(e2) between the [100] and [110] directions
shows significant temperature dependence. This anisotropy is very small
at temperatures just below T_(e), and increases gradually with
decreasing temperature. After taking a maximum at 1.5 K, it becomes
small again at 0.5 K, because H_(e2) along the [110] direction does not
take a maximum, as shown in Fig. 2(c). The anisotropy of H_(e2) between
the [100] and [001] directions has strong temperature dependence, as
shown in Fig. 3(b). It is extremely large, exceeding 800

In Fig. 4 the magnetization values at H_(e2)M(H_(e2)) are plotted as a
function of the temperature for ${\bf H}||$[100], ${\bf H}||$[110], and
${\bf H}||$[001]. M(H_(e2)) was defined by using the magnetization
measurements in paper I. As mentioned before, M(H_(e2)) almost coincides
between the [100] and [110] directions. This indicates that in the c
plane superconductivity begins to be destroyed by the generation of a
certain magnitude of the magnetization at every temperature. It should
be noted that, exactly speaking, M(H_(e2)) for ${\bf H}||$[110] is a
little smaller than that for ${\bf H}||$[100]. M(H_(e2)) is very small
for ${\bf H}||$[001], whereas H_(e2) is extremely high compared with
that in the c plane.

Finally, the experimental results of the bct LuRh₄B₄ sample are
described. ρ₀ and the RRR are almost the same as that of the bct ErRh₄B₄
single crystal, as described before. Figure 5 shows the temperature
dependence of H_(e2). The gradient of H_(e2) is
(−dH_(e2)/dT)_(T_(e))=20.8 kOe/K, where T_(e) is 8.61 K. The gradient of
H_(e2) is much larger than that of LuRh₄B₄ with primitive tetragonal
structure[11] and may come from the dirtiness of the sample as indicated
by the high resistivity of this sample. The dashed-dotted curve shows
H_(e2) in the dirty limit by the Werthamer, Helfand, and Hohenberg

Figure 4: Temperature dependence of the magnetization at H_(e2) for
${\bf H}||$[100], ${\bf H}||$[110], and ${\bf H}||$[001].

Figure 3: Temperature dependence of the anisotropy of H_(e2) (a) in the
c plane and (b) in the a plane.

(WHH) theory.12 This curve corresponds to the orbital upper critical
field. Though H_(e2)(0), estimated from the theoretical curve, is 123
kOe, the experimental data are slightly higher than the theoretical
curve.

## IV Discussion

### Anisotropy of H_(e2) of $\rm{bct}$ $\rm{ErRh_{4}B_{4}}$ above T_(n)

The large anisotropy of H_(e2) between the [100] and [001] directions
and the fourfold anisotropy of H_(e2) in the c plane can never be
explained as long as the effect of the anisotropic magnetization is not
considered, because the crystal structure of the
$\rm{bct}$$\rm{\cal{B}Rh_{4}B_{4}}$ compounds has nearly cubic symmetry
as a whole.

In order to explain the large anisotropy of H_(e2) observed in
$\rm{bct}$$\rm{ErRh_{4}B_{4}}$, we need to take account of both effects
of the electromagnetic interaction [13] and the spin polarization due to
the s-f exchange interaction.[14, 15] The
$\rm{bct}$$\rm{\cal{B}Rh_{4}B_{4}}$ compounds are a dirty
superconductor, as described in Sec. III. Therefore, in the analysis we
use the following expression which holds for the dirty limit [16]:

H_(e2)(T) = H_(e2)^(⋆)(T) − 4πM(H_(e2), T)
(2)
−A[H_(e2)(T) − I^(′)M(H_(e2), T)]² ,

where

$$A = 0.022\alpha/\lambda_{\rm{s.o.}}T_{e0}$$
(3)

and

I^(′) = 4π + I , I = (g_(J) − 1)I₀/2Ng_(J)μ_(B)² ,
(4)

where α and $\lambda_{\rm{s.o.}}$ are the Maki parameter and the
spin-orbit scattering parameter, respectively, T_(e0) is the
superconducting transition temperature of nonmagnetic
$\rm{\cal{B}Rh_{4}B_{4}}$, N is the number of $\rm{Er}$ spins per unit
volume, and g_(J) is the Lande g-factor. The term 4πM represents the
effect of the electromagnetic interaction and the term IM, the effect of
the spin polarization due to the s-f exchange interaction, where I is
proportional to the s-f exchange constant I₀. It should be noted that
the electromagnetic interaction behaves not only as an orbital
pair-breaking mechanism shown by the second term of Eq. (2) but also as
the spin paramagnetic one containing the third term of Eq. (2). On the
other hand, the s-f exchange interaction which is contained in the third
term of Eq. (2) behaves as a spin paramagnetic pair-breaking mechanism.
H_(e2)^(⋆) is the upper critical field limited by orbital effect only.

H_(e2)(T) of $\rm{bct}$$\rm{LuRh_{4}B_{4}}$ which is shown in Fig. 5 is
utilized for H_(e2)^(⋆)(T) because both its resistivity and its residual
resistance ratio are almost the same between the
$\rm{bct}$$\rm{ErRh_{4}B_{4}}$ and the $\rm{bct}$$\rm{LuRh_{4}B_{4}}$
samples, as mentioned in Sec. III. Though H_(e2) of
$\rm{bct}$$\rm{bct}$$\rm{LuRh_{4}B_{4}}$ in the experiments is slightly
higher than the orbital upper critical field H_(e2)^(⋆) by the
$\rm{WHH}$ theory, the following analysis is performed on the basis of
the theoretical H_(e2)^(⋆). It is necessary to correct the discrepancy
of the superconducting transition temperature between
$\rm{bct}$$\rm{ErRh_{4}B_{4}}$ (T_(e) = 7.80 K) and
$\rm{bct}$$\rm{LuRh_{4}B_{4}}$ (T_(e0) = 8.61 K). Since
(− dH_(e2)/dT)_(T_(e)) does not explicitly depend on T_(e) in the dirty
limit according to the Bardeen- Cooper-Schrieffer - Ginzburg- Landau-
Abrikosov-Gor’kov (BCS-GLAG) theory, (− dH_(e2)/dT)_(T_(e)) is assumed
to be almost constant even if T_(e) changes a little. Therefore,
H_(e2)^(⋆)(T) is the orbital upper critical field of the hypothetical
nonmagnetic superconductor $\rm{bct}$$\rm{ErRh_{4}B_{4}}$ with
T_(e) = 7.80 K and (− dH_(e2)/dT)_(T_(e)) = 20.8 kOe/K, which is shown
by the solid curve in Fig. 5. Furthermore, it is also implicitly assumed
that H_(e2)^(⋆) has no anisotropy because the crystal structure of the
$\rm{bct}$ compounds has nearly cubic symmetry as a whole.

The experimental results of H_(e2) shown in Fig. 1 are analyzed on the
basis of Eq. (2) by use of M(H_(e2)) shown in Fig. 4. In order to
explain the anisotropy of H_(e2) observed between the [100] and [001]
axes, the values of the parameters I^(′) and A are determined under the
conditions H_(e2)^(⋆) = H_(e2)^(⋆)[100] = H_(e2)^(⋆)[001] at every
temperature. The two solutions with positive and negative signs are
obtained on I^(′). The mean values of the parameters obtained at several
temperatures are I^(′) = 1112, A = 1.1 × 10⁻⁶ and
$I^{\prime} = - 1  to be 74 K and \(\lambda_{\rm{s},o}$ = 2.81 by use of
Eqs. (3) and (4). The positive sign of I^(′) indicates that the exchange
interaction between the conduction electrons and the magnetic spins is
ferromagnetic. The large $\lambda_{\rm{s},o}$ value also indicates that
the spin-orbit scattering is very strong in this crystal.

Figure 8 shows the contributions of both the electromagnetic interaction
and the spin polarization due to the s-f exchange interaction to H_(e2)
along the [001] and the [100] axes. It is important that H_(e2)^(•) of
hypothetical nonmagnetic bet ErRh${}_{\rm{h}}$B${}_{\rm{d}}$ (dashed
curve) is greatly reduced by the effect of the spin polarization due to
the s-f exchange interaction. The arrows show the contribution of the
spin polarization to H_(e2) along the [001] and [100] axes. The
contribution of the electromagnetic interaction represented by 4πM is
much smaller compared to that of the spin polarization due to the s-f
exchange interaction. It should be pointed out that the experimental
value along the [001] direction corresponds to B_(e2)(T) because of the
demagnetization and that the dashed curve represents the real H_(e2)(T).
It should be also noted that the experimental H_(e2)(T) along the [100]
direction is real H_(e2)(T) and the solid curve represents B_(e2)(T). It
is concluded that H_(e2) along the [100] axis is almost decisively
determined by the spin polarization effect and this effect also plays an
important role in H_(e2) in the [001] axis. The analysis of H_(e2) is
given for the temperature above T_(N). However, those pair-breaking
mechanisms will work for temperature below T_(N).

### Temperature dependence of H_(e2) of bet
ErRh${}_{\rm{h}}$B${}_{\rm{d}}$ below T_(N)

As shown in Fig. 1, H_(e2) along the [100] direction increases and
H_(e2) along the [110] direction decreases slightly with decreasing
temperature below T_(N). H_(e2) along the [110] direction becomes lower
than that along the [100] direction below 0.3 K. These results are
qualitatively understood as follows.

As described in the paper I, the magnetization process below T_(N) is
understood as metamagnetism. Superconductivity coexists with the
intermediate ferrimagnetic state with the magnetization of M₀/2 and is
quenched by the occurrence of the induced ferromagnetic order for
${\bf H}||[100]$. The field H₃ at which the magnetization shows the
second jump becomes slightly higher with decreasing temperature (see
Fig. 6 in paper I). Therefore, it is understood that H_(e2) for
${\bf H}||[100]$ increases with decreasing temperature below T_(N). On
the other hand, the magneti

Figure 8: Contribution of the spin polarization due to the s-f exchange
interaction and the electromagnetic interaction to H_(e2). The arrows
show effects of the spin polarization. The contribution of the
electromagnetic interaction is represented by 4πM.

Figure 6: Comparison of the experimental H_(e2) with the calculated one
for ${\bf H}||[10]$. Only the solution with a positive I^(′) value can
explain the experimental results.

Figure 7: Comparison of the experimental result of H_(e2)(θ) with the
calculated one. From this result and Fig. 6 the solution with a negative
I^(′) value is discarded.

zation shows a one-step jump for ${\bf H}||[110]$ and superconductivity
coexists with the canted ferromagnetic order with the magnetization of
$M_{0}/\sqrt{2}$. The transition width at H₂ becomes narrow when the
temperature decreases, and the magnetization around the transition
increases abruptly at lower temperature. The magnetization after the
jump at 0.1 K is larger than that at 0.5 K. Therefore, H_(e2) for
${\bf H}||[110]$ decreases with decreasing temperature. It is concluded
that H_(e2) in the c plane is mainly determined by the effect of the
magnetization through the spin polarization both above and below T_(N).

H_(e2) along the [001] direction decreases just above T_(N) and is
nearly constant below T_(N), as shown in Fig. 1. It seems that this
behavior of H_(e2) is explained neither by the spin polarization effect
due to the s-f exchange interaction nor by the electromagnetic
interaction. As the magnetizations are strongly suppressed for
${\bf H}||[001]$, and M(H_(e2)) is very small compared with that in the
c plane (Fig. 4), it is considered that both effects of the
electromagnetic interaction and the spin polarization due to the s-f
exchange interaction are small compared with the case of
${\bf H}||[100]$ or ${\bf H}||[110]$. Therefore, the other pair-breaking
mechanisms such as a spin-fluctuation effect, due to the interaction
between the magnetic spins, should be considered. It is not certain what
kind of mechanism dominates the behavior so that H_(e2) decreases just
above T_(N) with decreasing temperature and is nearly constant below
T_(N), because M(H_(e2)) for ${\bf H}||[001]$ in the temperature range
around T_(N) has not been measured.

## References

* [1] For a review, see M. B. Maple, H. C. Hamaker, and L. D. Woolf, in
_Superconductivity in Ternary Compounds II_, Vol. 34 of _Topics in
Current Physics_, edited by M. B. Maple and O. Fischer (Springer,
Berlin, 1982), p. 99. * [2] M. Vandenberg and B. T. Matthias, Proc.
Natl. Acad. Sci. USA **74**, 1336 (1977). * [3] W. A. Fertig, D. C.
Johnston, L. E. DeLong, R. W. McCallum, M. B. Maple, and B. T. Matthias,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **38**, 987 (1977). * [4] D. C. Johnston, Solid State
Commun. **24**, 699 (1977). * [5] H. Iwasaki, M. Isino, K. Tsunokuni,
and Y. Muto, J. Magn. Magn. Mater. **32**, 521 (1983). * [6] K. Yvon and
D. C. Johnston, Acta. Crystallogr. B **38**, 247 (1982). * [7] D. C.
Johnston and H. B. Mackay, Bull. Am. Phys. Soc. **24**, 390 (1979). *
[8] H. Iwasaki, M. Ikebe, and Y. Muto, in _Proceedings of the
International Conference LT17 (1984)_ edited by U. Eckern, A. Schmid, W.
Weber, and H. Huhl (North-Holland, Amsterdam, 1984), p. 87. * [9] H.
Iwasaki, M. Ikebe, and Y. Muto, in _Proceedings of the International
Conference LT17 (1984)_ edited by U. Eckern, A. Schmid, W. Weber, and H.
Huhl (North-Holland, Amsterdam, 1984), p. 89. * [10] H. Iwasaki, M.
Ikebe, and Y. Muto, preceding paper, Phys. Rev. B **33**, 4669 (1986). *
[11] H. R. Ott, A. M. Campbell, H. Rudigier, H. C. Hamaker, and M. B.
Maple, Physica **108B**, 751 (1981). * [12] N. R. Werthamer, E. Helfand,
and D. C. Hohenberg, Phys. Rev. **147**, 295 (1966). * [13] Q. Sakai, M.
Tachiki, T. Koyama, H. Matsumoto, and H. Umezawa, Phys. Rev. B **24**,
3830 (1981). * [14] G. Zwicknagl and P. Fulde, Z. Phys. **43**, 23
(1981). * [15] K. Machida, J. Low Temp. Phys. **37**, 583 (1979). * [16]
O. Fischer, M. Ishikawa, M. Pelizzone, and A. Treyvaud, J. Phys. (Paris)
Colloq. **40**, C5-89 (1979).
