# Pressure-induced changes in the magnetic and valence state of EuFe₂As₂

K. Matsubayashi,^(1, 2) K. Munakata,^(1, 2) M. Isobe,^(1, 2) N.
Katayama,^(1, 3) K. Ohgushi,^(1, 2) Y. Ueda,^(1, 2) N. Kawamura,⁴ M.
Mizumaki,⁴ N. Ishimatsu,⁵ M. Hedo,⁶ I. Umehara,⁷ and Y. Uwatoko^(1, 2)

¹Institute for Solid State Physics, The University of Tokyo,
Kashiwanoha, Kashiwa, Chiba 277-8581, Japan

²JST, TRIP, 5 Sanhacho, Chiyoda, Tokyo 102-0075, Japan

³Department of Physics, University of Virginia, Charlottesville,
Virginia 22904-4714, USA

⁴Japan Synchrotron Radiation Research Institute (JASRI/SPring-8), 1-1-1
Kouto, Sayo, Hyogo 679-5198, Japan

⁵Department of Physical Science, Graduate School of Science, Hiroshima
University, 1-3-1 Kagamiyama, Higashi-Hiroshima, Hiroshima 739-8526,
Japan

⁶Faculty of Science, University of the Ryukyus, Nishihara, Okinawa
903-0213, Japan

⁷Department of Physics, Faculty of Engineering, Yokohama National
University, Yokohama 240-8501, Japan

30 April 201120015 July 2011

###### Abstract

We present the results of electrical resistivity, ac specific heat,
magnetic susceptibility, x-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS), and x-ray
magnetic circular dichroism (XMCD) of the ternary iron arsenide EuFe₂As₂
single crystal under pressure. Applying pressure leads to a continuous
suppression of the antiferromagnetism associated with Fe moments and the
antiferromagnetic transition temperature becomes zero in the vicinity of
a critical pressure $P_{\rm c}\sim 2.5$-2.7 GPa. Pressure-induced
reentrant superconductivity, which is highly sensitive to the
homogeneity of the pressure, only appears in the narrow pressure region
in the vicinity of $P_{\rm c}$ due to the competition between
superconductivity and the antiferromagnetic ordering of Eu²⁺ moments.
The antiferromagnetic state of Eu²⁺ moments changes to the ferromagnetic
state above 6 GPa. We also found that the ferromagnetic order is
suppressed with further increasing pressure, which is connected with a
valence change of Eu ions.

pacs: DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.84.024502

## I Introduction

Since the discovery of superconductivity (SC) in LaFeAsO_(1 − x)F_(x),1
a large number of new superconductors with FeAs layers have been
reported. In the oxygen-free iron arsenide AF₂As₂ (A = Ca, Sr, Ba, and
Eu) with the tetragonal ThCr₂Si₂ structure, the antiferromagnetic of Fe
moments is suppressed by chemical doping or applying pressure, and
superconductivity appears above a critical concentration and
pressure.[2, 3] Among the AF₂As₂ compounds, EuFe₂As₂ is an interesting
system from the viewpoint of magnetism; Eu ion is in a divalent state
with a magnetic moment, and orders antiferromagnetically below 20 K.[4]
In this system, superconductivity emerges in 50

According to the high-pressure experiment on the parent EuFe₂As₂
compound, the resistivity drop at ∼29 K, suggesting the onset of
superconductivity, is observed at pressures above 2.0 GPa.[7] With
further decreasing temperature the resistivity increases again and
exhibits a maximum that is interpreted to reentrant superconductivity
caused by the magnetic ordering of the Eu²⁺ moments, as observed in the
rare-earth nickel borocarbides.[8] More recently, zero-resistivity and
full-shielding effects in the ac magnetic susceptibility have been
observed at a critical pressure $P_{\rm c}\sim 2.5$ GPa.[9] The
discrepancy for the appearance of zero resistivity is probably due to
the difference in high-pressure experimental conditions. In fact, in the
case of AF₂As₂ (A = Ca, Sr, and Ba), there exists a crucial difference
in the presence/absence of superconductivity depending on the
hydrostaticity of pressure.[10, 11, 12, 13] Therefore, a high-pressure
study under highly hydrostatic conditions is required for EuFe₂As₂ to
obtain the intrinsic properties. In addition, the maximum pressure in
the above reports on EuFe₂As₂ was limited below 3 GPa. As for the
competition between the superconductivity and magnetism of Eu ions, it
would be also rewarding to extend the pressure range to higher pressure
because sufficiently high pressure induces the valence change from Eu²⁺
(4 f⁷, magnetic) to Eu³⁺ (4 f⁶, nonmagnetic) state, which may be more
favorable for the appearance of superconductivity. According to
high-pressure experiments for Eu metal, pressure-induced
superconductivity appears at sufficiently high pressure where the Eu
valency might be in a trivalent or mixed-valent state.[14] In order to
clarify these points and construct the phase diagram in the wider
pressure range, we have measured resistivity, magnetic susceptibility,
ac specific heat, x-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS), and x-ray
magnetic circular dichroism (XMCD) up to 23 GPa on a single crystal of
EuFe₂As₂ grown by the self-flux method.

## II Experimental

Single crystals were grown by an FeAs self-flux method. The starting
materials were put into an alumina crucible with the ratio Eu : Fe : As
= 1 : 5 : 5 and sealed in a double-quartz tube. The tube was heated up
to 1120 ^(∘)C, and slowly cooled down to 900 ^(∘)C in 72 hours.

High pressure was generated by using two types of pressure cells: a
hybrid piston-cylinder clamped cell and a cubic anvil cell.[15, 16] The
pressure at low temperature in the piston-cylinder cell was determined
by the pressure dependence of the superconducting transition temperature
of Sn.[17] The applied pressure inside the cubic anvil cell is
calibrated by the measurement of the resistivity changes of Bi and Te
associated with their structural phase transitions at room temperature.

In order to maintain a constant pressure, the force applied to the
sample is kept constant during the measurement by cooling and warming
runs. We note that the reason why we used two kinds of pressure cell is
to check the effect of the inhomogeneity of pressure on EuFe₂As₂. The
piston-cylinder clamped cell with a liquid pressure medium is commonly
used to apply hydrostatic pressure, however, the solidification of the
liquid pressure-transmitting medium causes inhomogeneous pressure
distributions and uniaxial stress because of the uniaxial geometry of
the pressure cell. On the other hand, the cubic anvil apparatus is known
to generate hydrostatic pressure owing to the multiple-anvil geometry; a
gasket with a Teflon cell, in which the sample is immersed in the liquid
pressure medium, is compressed from three directions with six tungsten
carbide anvils.[16] The importance of the hydrostatic pressure is
demonstrated by the pressure-induced superconductivity EuFe₂As₂ (see
below for details).

Electrical resistivity was measured by a standard four-probe technique
with current flow in the _ab_ plane. The dc magnetization was measured
using a commercial SQUID magnetometer (MPMS). The ac magnetic
susceptibility was measured at a fixed frequency of 307 Hz with a
modulation field of 0.3 mT applied along _ab_ plane. Ac calorimetric
measurement is performed by a Joule-heating-type technique, and the
experimental details are described elsewhere.[18] In the above
high-pressure experiments, the pressure-transmitting mediums for the
piston-cylinder cell and the cubic anvil cell were Daphne7373 and
glycerin, respectively.

XAS and XMCD measurements at the Eu L₃-edge were performed under
pressure at the beamline BL39XU of SPring-8, Japan.[19] A
single-crystalline sample was cut into 70 x 50 x 10 μm³ for the
transmission measurement. The sample was loaded in a diamond anvil cell
(DAC) filled with glycerin, which served as a pressure-transmitting
medium. Pressure calibration was performed using the fluorescence from
ruby chips mounted with the sample inside the DAC. The x-ray beam and
magnetic field were aligned parallel to the c axis.

## III Results and Discussion

### Electrical resistivity and specific heat

Figure 1 shows the temperature dependencies of the electrical
resistivity, ρ(T), for EuFe₂As₂ at high pressure using (a)
piston-cylinder cell and (b) cubic anvil cell. At ambient pressure, ρ(T)
shows steplike increase at $T_{\rm s}\sim$ 185 K, where the structural
transition and itinerant antiferromagnetism of Fe moments occur
simultaneously.[4] The sharpness of the transition indicates the high
quality of our sample. With increasing pressure, $T_{\rm s}$ shifts to a
lower temperature and seems to disappear at a critical pressure
$P_{\rm c}\sim$ 2.5-2.7 GPa in both high-pressure experiments. The broad
transition feature in the vicinity of $P_{\rm c}$ caused by the combined
effect of the first-order nature of this phase transition and the
inhomogeneity of the pressure distribution. At ambient pressure, a clear
kink observed at $T_{\rm N}\sim$ 19 K indicates the antiferromagnetic
transition of Eu²⁺ moments [see Fig. 1(a)]. For pressures higher than
1.2 GPa, ρ(T) shows a distinct increase at around 20 K, reaching a
maximum and decreasing again. Here, we assign this sharp dip to
$T_{\rm N}$ in order to be consistent with the specific heat shown in
the inset of Fig. 1(a). Above 2 GPa, a new anomaly appears at
$T_{\rm SC}\sim$ 25 K, implying the appearance of the superconductivity
as reported previously.[7] The resistivity drop is more pronounced at
2.6 GPa, however, the resistance does not reach zero. By contrast, in
the case of using cubic anvil cell, the superconducting transition with
zero resistance is achieved at almost the same pressure and temperature
region as shown in Fig. 1(b). At lower temperatures, the resistivity has
a peak at around 20 K, coinciding with the specific-heat anomaly due to
the antiferromagnetic ordering of Eu²⁺ moments. Therefore, the reentrant
behavior of the resistivity is caused by the competition of the
superconductivity and the antiferromagnetic state of Eu²⁺ moments. With
further increasing pressure above 3 GPa, the superconducting transition
becomes no longer visible, and, then, the resistivity and specific-heat
anomaly corresponding to the antiferromagnetic ordering of Eu²⁺ moments
survives [see the lower inset of Fig. 1(b)].

Here, we compare our results with the previous high-pressure studies.
The resistivity measurement made by Miclea _et al.[7]_ agrees with our
result using a piston-cylinder cell, although the zero resistance was
not achieved in both cases.

Figure 1: (Color online) Temperature dependence of the electrical
resistivity, ρ, for EuFe₂As₂ under pressure using (a) piston-cylinder
cell and (b) cubic anvil cell. The arrows at $T_{\rm s}$ and $T_{\rm N}$
indicate the location of the structural/antiferromagnetic transition
temperature of Fe moments and antiferromagnetic transition temperature
of Eu moments, respectively. The insets show the temperature dependence
of ρ and $C_{\rm w}/T$ at selected pressures.

It is noteworthy that the pressure-transmitting medium used in these
experiments solidifies below $P_{\rm c}$(∼2.5-2.7 GPa); the
solidification pressure of silicone oil (Miclea _et al._) and Daphne7373
(used in our experiment using piston cylinder) is 1.0 and 2.2 GPa,
respectively.[20, 21] It is important to keep the pressure medium in a
liquid state to generate hydrostatic pressure because the shear stress
of a solid medium causes nonhydrostatic pressure. Actually, the zero
resistivity was detected by Terashima _et al.[9]_ using Daphne7474,
which remains liquid up to 3.7 GPa.[21] This is consistent with our
results using cubic anvil cell. Note that we use glycerin served as a
pressure medium, which remains in a liquid state up to ∼5 GPa.[22] From
these results, we conclude that the pressure homogeneity gives a
critical influence on the detection of the superconductivity as a
consequence of the occurrence of the superconductivity in a narrow
pressure window between 2.5 and 3.0 GPa.

Here, we recall that in the high-pressure studies on CaFe₂As₂,
superconductivity appears only under nonhydrostatic-pressure
conditions,[10] contrary to our observation in EuFe₂As₂. In the case of
CaFe₂As₂, a collapsed tetragonal (_cT_) structure, resulting in a
significant anisotropic change in the lattice constant, is identified
above $P_{\rm c}$. The superconductivity observed under nonhydrostatic
pressure originates in a low-temperature multi-crystallographic-phase
state that includes not only the nonsuperconducting _cT_ phase but also
the superconducting tetragonal phase.[23] On the other hand, recent
x-ray diffraction measurements under pressure in EuFe₂As₂ revealed that
the _cT_ phase is identified above 8 GPa.[24] Therefore, the _cT_ phase
is absent in the vicinity of $P_{\rm c}$ in EuFe₂As₂, suggesting the
different origin of highly sensitive to pressure inhomogeneity in
EuFe₂As₂ and CaFe₂As₂. From these results, the pressure-induced
superconductivity in EuFe₂As₂ is stabilized only in the narrow pressure
region due to the competition between superconductivity and the magnetic
order of Eu ions. Therefore, a precise tuning of pressure without
pressure inhomogeneity is needed to observe the superconductivity.

To further elucidate the nature of the high-pressure region, we have
performed resistivity measurements using a cubic anvil cell up to 12
GPa. For pressures lower than 4 GPa, ρ(T) follows a simple metallic
behavior at high temperatures followed by a resistivity drop at
$T_{\rm N}$. Here, we define $T_{\rm N}$ as the minimum in the second
derivative d²ρ(T)/dT² (see the inset of Fig. 2). $T_{\rm N}$ shifts
toward higher temperatures on application of pressure, reaching ∼50 K at
8 GPa, and then decreases slightly. Note that the overall shape of ρ(T)
changes at higher pressures, which is related to the instability of the
Eu valence as described in the following.

### Magnetic susceptibility

Figure 3 shows the temperature dependence of magnetic susceptibility,
χ(T), of EuFe₂As₂ under pressure for an applied magnetic field of 0.1 T
along directions perpendicular and parallel to ab plane. At ambient
pressure, the high-temperature χ(T) is isotropic and follows the
Curie-Weiss law, $\chi(T)=\chi_{0}+C/(T-\theta_{\rm W})$, where χ₀ is
the temperature-independent susceptibility, C is the Curie-Weiss
constant, and $\theta_{\rm W}$ is the Curie-Weiss temperature. The
effective moments are close to the value of a free divalent Eu ion and
$\theta_{\rm W}\sim 16$ K as reported previously. A pronounced kink at
$T_{\rm N}\sim 19$ K in both orientations indicates the
antiferromagnetic transition of Eu²⁺ moments. $T_{\rm N}$ slightly
increases with increasing pressure, which is consistent with the results
of aforementioned resistivity and specific-heat measurements. As shown
in the inset of Fig. 3, a metamagnetic transition is found for both
field orientations at temperatures below $T_{\rm N}$.[25, 26] Here we
note that no hysteresis was found within the experimental precision.
According to the neutron-scattering experiment, the magnetic

Figure 3: (Color online) Temperature dependence of dc magnetic
susceptibility under magnetic field (a) H ⊥ c and (b) H ∥ ab plane at
selected pressure. The inset shows M-H curves at 2 K.

Figure 2: (Color online) Temperature dependence of ρ above 3 GPa using
cubic anvil cell. The inset shows d²ρ(T)/dT² vs T below 70 K. The curves
for different pressures are shifted for clarity.

structure of the antiferromagnetic order is A type, i.e., Eu²⁺ spins
align ferromagnetically in the basal planes while the planes are coupled
antiferromagnetically.[27] The critical field of the metamagnetic
transition decreases with increasing pressure, suggesting that the
interlayer antiferromagnetic coupling becomes weaker under pressure.

To clarify the nature of the magnetic properties at higher pressures, we
have carried out ac magnetic susceptibility measurements under pressure.
Figure 4 shows the temperature dependence of the real part,
$\chi^{\prime}_{\rm ac}$, and imaginary part,
$\chi^{\prime\prime}_{\rm ac}$, of the ac magnetic susceptibility at
constant pressure. At 2.0 GPa, $\chi^{\prime}_{\rm ac}$ exhibits a kink
at a temperature $T_{\rm N}$. At $P_{\rm c}$ (∼2.5 GPa), where the SC
transition appears in the resistivity, three distinct anomalies are
present as shown in the inset of Fig. 4. The real part,
$\chi^{\prime}_{\rm ac}$, shows a hump at ∼25 K, well corresponding to
zero resistance. A kink appears at $T_{\rm N}\sim 21$ K close to the
temperature where the maximum in the resistivity and the specific-heat
anomaly occurs, reflecting the occurrence of the antiferromagnetic
order. A large diamagnetic signal due to the SC transition is observed
at a lower temperature, which corresponds to nearly 100

### XAS and XMCD

Figure 5 shows Eu L₃-edge XAS spectra of EuFe₂As₂ at 15 and 300 K under
various pressures. At around 2 and 5 GPa, the XAS spectrum exhibits a
single-peak structure corresponding to Eu²⁺ ions, which is consistent
with the divalent nature of Eu reported at ambient pressure.[6] On the
other hand, the spectra for pressures above ∼9 GPa consist of two
resolved peaks, indicating the mixed-valence character of the Eu ions.
The relative intensity of the trivalent-state absorption peak to that of
the divalent state increases with increasing pressure. The averaged
valence was determined by fitting the XAS spectra to an arctangent step
function and a Lorentzian peak for each valence state. As shown in the
middle panel of Fig. 5, the Eu valence monotonically increases above ∼9
GPa whereas there is no significant valence change at lower pressures.
We note that the valence of the Eu ions exhibits the temperature
dependence at ∼15 GPa. This is consistent with the decrease of
$T_{\rm Curie}$ above 10 GPa, indicating a valence-fluctuating Eu state.

In the left panel of Fig. 6, we show the XMCD spectra at 15 K in
magnetic fields of 0.6 T. The main peak at around 6.973 keV is
attributed to Eu²⁺ state, while the higher energy peak is complicated by
the presence of neighboring atoms. Actually, it is known from both
experimental and theoretical studies that the XMCD spectrum is affected
by the hybridization between the Eu-5d and Fe-3d bands.[30] A detailed
theoretical study is needed to understand the mechanism of the XMCD.
Hereafter, we consider the main

Figure 4: (Color online) Temperature dependence of the real
$\chi^{\prime}_{\rm ac}$ and imaginary $\chi^{\prime\prime}_{\rm ac}$
parts of the ac magnetic susceptibility for EuFe₂As₂ under pressure.

Figure 5: (Color online) XAS spectra at various pressures at 15 and 300
K for the Eu L₃-edge. The middle panel shows the pressure dependence of
the averaged valence. Dotted lines are a guide to the eye.

peak at 6.973 keV. The observation of XMCD signal indicates the presence
of magnetic moment of the absorbing magnetic atoms, and the XMCD signal
is proportional to the projection of the magnetization vector along the
x-ray wave vector. Therefore, the XMCD signal is basically absent in the
antiferromagnetic state. However, the applied magnetic field may induce
canting of the antiferromagnetic spin structure,[25] as observed in our
magnetization measurements, and results in the observation of an XMCD
signal at low pressures. Above 9 GPa, the amplitude of the XMCD peak
obviously decreases and the overall shape of the XMCD spectra at higher
energies (6.98-6.99 keV) is modified. These observations can be
interpreted as the reduction of the effective magnetic moments of Eu as
a result of a dilution of the magnetic Eu²⁺ with increasing pressure. As
shown in Fig. 6(b), with further increasing pressure the XMCD intensity
seems to disappear around ∼20 GPa, suggesting the collapse of the
magnetism of Eu. In order to obtain the information on the magnetic
state, we performed element-specific magnetization (ESM) measurements at
6.973 keV, which corresponds to the peak of XMCD signal due to the Eu²⁺
state. As shown in Fig. 6(c), the XMCD intensity increases almost
linearly at 4.6 GPa, on the other hand, at higher pressures a small
hysteresis loop is observed and appears to be approaching saturation.
This is consistent with the ferromagnetic state as detected by the
ac-susceptibility measurement.

### Pressure-temperature phase diagram

The results on EuFe₂As₂ single crystals studied here are summarized in
Fig. 7 as a pressure-temperature phase diagram. The antiferromagnetism
associated with Fe moments is suppressed at $P_{\rm c}\sim$ 2.5-2.7 GPa
while the antiferromagnetic order of localized Eu moments is almost
pressure-independent below $P_{\rm c}$. Our key finding is that
$T_{\rm SC}$ only appears in the narrow pressure region in the vicinity
of $P_{\rm c}$, indicating that the SC state competes with the
antiferromagnetic state of Eu²⁺ moments. Above 3 GPa, $T_{\rm N}$ of
Eu²⁺ moments starts to increase, and a pressure-induced transition from
antiferromagnetic to ferromagnetic ordering is confirmed by the
ac-magnetic-susceptibility and ESM measurements. The magnetic coupling
between the Eu moments would be mediated by the indirect
Ruderman-Kittel-Kasuya-Yosida (RKKY) exchange interaction in EuFe₂As₂.
It is conceivable that the RKKY exchange interaction could be affected
by the distance between Eu moments with applying pressure, resulting in
the pressure-induced variation from antiferromagnetic to ferromagnetic
order due to the sign change of the RKKY interaction. It is found that
the ferromagnetic transition temperature, $T_{\rm Curie}$, shows a
maximum at around 8 GPa, and decreases at higher pressures. Combining
the results of XAS and XMCD data, the suppression of the ferromagnetic
state is connected with the valence change from magnetic Eu²⁺ to
nonmagnetic Eu³⁺ state. According to the recent x-ray diffraction
measurements under pressure in EuFe₂As₂, a collapsed tetragonal (cT)
phase is found above 8 GPa.[24] It is known that the pressure-induced
structural transition toward the cT phase is connected with the valence
change of Eu ions, as reported in EuFe₂P₂ and EuCo₂P₂.[31] Therefore, we
conclude that a pressure-induced valence change occurs at ∼8 GPa. To
obtain further insight into this critical pressure region, high-pressure
bulk measurements will be needed to complete the phase diagram.

## IV Summary

In summary, we performed electrical-resistivity, ac specific heat,
magnetic susceptibility, XAS, and XMCD measurements of EuFe₂As₂ single
crystals under pressure. The antiferromagnetism associated with Fe
moments collapses at the critical pressure $P_{\rm c}\sim$ 2.5-2.7 GPa,
and pressure-induced reentrant superconductivity only appears in the
narrow pressure region

Figure 6: (Color online) (a) XMCD spectra at various pressures at 15 K
for the Eu L_(y)-edge. (b) Pressure dependence of XMCD intensity at
6.973 keV. (c) Normalized XMCD intensity is plotted as a function of the
magnetic field at selected pressures.

Figure 7: (Color online) Pressure-temperature phase diagram of EuFe₂As₂
derived from the electrical resistivity (open and closed circles), ac
specific heat (squares), and magnetic susceptibility (triangles and
diamonds). Dotted lines are a guide to the eye.

in the vicinity of $P_{\rm e}$. Consequently, we conclude that the
difference of the pressure homogeneity has a critical influence on the
appearance of superconductivity in EuFe₂As₂. The antiferromagnetic order
of Eu²⁺ moments changes to ferromagnetic order above around 6 GPa, as
confirmed by ac magnetic susceptibility and ESM measurements using XMCD.
We found that the ferromagnetic order is suppressed with further
increasing pressure, which is connected with a valence change of Eu
ions.

###### Acknowledgements.

We thank H. S. Suzuki, G. Cao, and J. S. Schilling for helpful
discussions and comments. We also thank S. Suzuki for experimental
assistance. This work was partially supported by the approval of the
Japan Synchrotron Radiation Research Institute (JASRI) (Proposal No.
2009B1959), and a Grant-in-Aid for Research (Nos. 21340092, 20102007,
and 19GS0205) from the Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science,
and Technology, Japan.

## References

* [1] Y. Kamihara, T. Watanabe, M. Hirano, and H. Hosono, J. Am. Chem.
Soc. **130**, 3296 (2008). * [2] M. Rotter, M. Tegel, and D. Johrendt,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **101**, 107006 (2008). * [3] P. L. Alireza, J.
Gillett, Y. T. Chris Ko, S. E. Sebastian, and G. G. Lonzarich, J. Phys.
Condens. Matter **21**, 012208 (2009). * [4] H. S. Jeevan, Z. Hossain,
D. Kasinathan, H. Rosner, C. Geibel, and P. Gegenwart, Phys. Rev. B
**78**, 052502 (2008). * [5] H. S. Jeevan, Z. Hossain, D. Kasinathan, H.
Rosner, C. Geibel, and P. Gegenwart, Phys. Rev. B **78**, 092406
(2008). * [6] Anupam, P. L. Paulose, H. S. Jeevan, C. Geibel, and Z.
Hossain, J. Phys. Condens. Matter **21**, 265701 (2009). * [7] C. F.
Micela, M. Nicklas, H. S. Jeevan, D. Kasinathan, Z. Hossain, H. Rosner,
P. Gegenwart, C. Geibel, and F. Steglich, Phys. Rev. B **79**, 212509
(2009). * [8] H. Eisaki, H. Takagi, R. J. Cava, B. Batlogg, J. J.
Krajewski, W. F. Peck Jr., K. Mizuhashi, J. O. Lee, and S. Uchida, Phys.
Rev. B **50**, 647 (1994). * [9] T. Terashima, M. Kimata, H. Satsukawa,
A. Harada, K. Hazama, S. Uji, H. S. Suzuki, T. Matsumoto, and K. Murata,
J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **78**, 083701 (2009). * [10] W. Yu, A. A. Aczel, T.
J. Williams, S. L. Bud’ko, N. Ni, P. C. Canfield, and G. M. Luke, Phys.
Rev. B **79**, 020511 (2009). * [11] H. Kotegawa, T. Kawazoe, H.
Sugawara, K. Murata, and H. Tou, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **78**, 083702
(2009). * [12] K. Matsubayashi, N. Katayama, K. Ohgushi, A. Yamada, K.
Munakata, T. Matsumoto, and Y. Uwatoko, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **78**,
073706 (2009). * [13] T. Yamazaki, N. Takeshita, R. Kobayashi, H.
Fukazawa, Y. Kohori, K. Kihou, C. H. Lee, H. Kito, A. Iyo, and H.
Eisaki, Phys. Rev. B **81**, 224511 (2010). * [14] M. Debesai, T.
Matsuoka, J. J. Hamlin, J. S. Schilling, and K. Shimizu, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **102**, 197002 (2009). * [15] Y. Uwatoko, S. Todo, K. Ueda, A.
Uchida, M. Kosaka, N. Mori, and T. Matsumoto, J. Phys. Condens. Matter
**15**, 11291 (2002). * [16] N. Mori, H. Takahashi, and N. Takeshita,
High Press. Res. **24**, 225 (2004). * [17] L. D. Jennings and C. A.
Swenson, Phys. Rev. **112**, 31 (1958). * [18] K. Matsubayashi, M. Hedo,
I. Umehara, N. Katayama, K. Ohgushi, A. Yamada, K. Munakata, T.
Matsumoto, and Y. Uwatoko, J. Phys. Conf. Ser. **215**, 012187 (2010). *
[19] N. Kawamura, N. Ishimatsu, and H. Maruyama, J. Synchrotron Rad.
**16**, 730 (2009). * [20] O. Sandberg and B. Sundqvist, J. Appl. Phys.
**53**, 8751 (1982). * [21] K. Murata, K. Yokogawa, H. Yoshino, S.
Klotz, P. Munsch, A. Irizawa, M. Nishiyama, K. Iizuka, T. Nanba, T.
Okada, Y. Shiraga, and S. Aoyama, Rev. Sci. Instrum. **79**, 085101
(2008). * [22] A. Drozd Rozska, S. J. Rozska, M. Raluch, A. R. Imre, and
C. M. Roland, J. Chem. Phys. **126**, 164504 (2007). * [23] M. S.
Torikachvili, S. L. Bud’ko, N. Ni, P. C. Canfield, and S. T. Hannahs,
Phys. Rev. B **80**, 014521 (2009). * [24] W. Uhoya, G. Tsoi, Y. K.
Vohra, M. A. McGuire, A. S. Sefat, B. C. Sales, D. Mandrus, and S. T.
Weir, J. Phys. Condens. Matter **22**, 292202 (2010). * [25] S. Jiang,
Y. Luo, Z. Ren, Z. Zhu, C. Wang, X. Xu, Q. Tao, G. Cao, and Z. Xu, New
J. Phys. **11**, 025007 (2009). * [26] M. Tokunaga, I. Katakura, N.
Katayama, and K. Ohgushi, J. Low Temp. Phys. **159**, 601 (2010). * [27]
Y. Xiao, Y. Su, M. Meven, R. Mittal, C. M. N. Kumar, T. Chatterji, S.
Price, J. Persson, N. Kumar, S. K. Dhar, A. Thamizhavel, and Th.
Brueckel, Phys. Rev. B **80**, 174424 (2009). * [28] Z. Ren, X. Lin, Q.
Tao, S. Jiang, Z. Zhu, C. Wang, G. Cao, and Z.Jnbsp;Xu, Phys. Rev. B
**79**, 094426 (2009). * [29] Z. Ren, Q. Tao, S. Jiang, C. Feng, C.
Wang, J. Dai, G. Cao, and Z. Xu, Phys. Rev. Lett. **102**, 137002
(2009). * [30] K. Asakura, J. Nakahara, I. Harada, H. Ogasawaral, K.
Fukui, and A. Kotani, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **71**, 2771 (2002). * [31] B.
Ni, M. M. Abd-Elmeguid, H. Micklitz, J. P. Sanchez, P. Vulliet, and D.
Johrendt, Phys. Rev. B **63**, 100102 (2001).
