Preparation, characterization, and superconducting properties of
tetragonal LaBaCaCu₃O_(7 + δ)

J. L. Peng, P. Klavins, and R. N. Shelton

Department of Physics, University of California, Davis, California 95616

H. B. Radousky, P. A. Hahn, L. Bernardez, and M. Costantino

Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, Box 808, Livermore, California
94550

27 December 1988

###### Abstract

Samples of LaBaCaCu₃O_(7 + δ) were prepared by standard solid-state
reactions. X-ray-powder-diffraction data taken in the temperature range
6-300 K reveal no structural transition. Thermo-gravimetric analysis was
used to determine the oxygen content δ. Both magnetization and
resistivity measurements indicate sharp superconducting transitions (ΔT
< 4 K) at 78 K for samples with δ = 0 +- 0.05. Broad transitions were
always observed for samples with δ < 0, although the T_(c) onsets
remained essentially constant. A sample with excess oxygen (δ > 0)
achieved by high-pressure oxygen annealing showed a broad transition, as
well as a T_(c) which was depressed by 10 K. We consider these
experimental results in the context of ordering of the cations La, Ba,
and Ca as well as oxygen sublattice ordering. We estimate the electronic
coefficient of specific heat γ and the Ginzburg-Landau parameters
$\xi_{\rm GL}$, $\lambda_{\rm GL}$, and $\kappa_{\rm GL}$ from the
measured temperature dependence of H_(c2) and the Pauli susceptibility.

## Introduction

Since the first discovery of superconductors with transition
temperatures (T_(c)) above 77 K,[1] much effort has been devoted to
understanding the origin and mechanism of high-T_(c) superconductivity
and to the search for new high-T_(c) materials. Detailed structural
studies by x-ray[2] and neutron diffraction[3] have already established
a unique structure as an oxygen-deficient layered perovskite
RBa₂Cu₃O_(7 + δ) (R is a rare-earth element). It is well known that the
high-T_(c) superconducting oxides RBa₂Cu₃O_(7 + δ) undergo an
orthorhombic-to-tetragonal transition as a result of a variation in the
oxygen content and oxygen sublattice distribution.[4] Oxygen content and
oxygen distribution also dramatically affect the T_(c) values. When
samples are heat treated at elevated temperature and/or in a reducing
atmosphere, the oxygen content and T_(c) decrease. Many compounds in
this series become tetragonal and semiconducting for δ < -0.5. Tokura
and co-workers[5] have demonstrated that the interrelated parameters of
overall oxygen content, effective copper valence, and total charge
associated with the noncopper cations all influence the superconducting
transition temperature for YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 + δ)-like materials. We note that
the orthorhombic structure is essential for achieving T_(c) > 90 K in
this class of superconductors, although superconductivity near 70 K
occurs in tetragonal structures for the systems
YBa₂(Cu_(0.96)Co_(0.04))₃O_(7 + δ, 6)[6]
Y_(3 − x)Ba_(3 + x)Cu₆O_(14 + δ, 7)[7] and LaBa₂Cu₃O_(7 + δ)[8] In the
system LaBa₂Cu₃O_(7 + δ), both tetragonal and orthorhombic structures
are found, with T_(c) around 60 and 90 K,[11] respectively; however,
tetragonal La_(1.5)Ba_(1.5)Cu₃O_(7 + δ) is not superconducting[12]
although it has the same structure as tetragonal LaBa₂Cu₃O_(7 + δ).
Superconductivity above 70 K has been observed in
La_(3 − x)Ba_(3 + x)Cu₆O_(14 + δ) by varying the La/Ba ratio.[13] The
structures of all of these superconducting and nonsuperconducting
materials are closely related, which raises questions concerning the
importance of crystal symmetry with respect to the origins of
high-temperature superconductivity.

In an effort to probe the relationship between sublattice disorder and
maximum T_(c) values, we first studied the system
La_(1.5)(Ba_(1 − x)Ca_(x))_(1.5)Cu₃O_(7 + δ). We found that, for 0 < x <
1.0, all of the samples of La_(1.5)(Ba_(1 − x)Ca_(x))_(1.5)CuO_(7 + δ)
display a tetragonal structure and show superconductivity above 70 K.
However, all of the superconducting transitions were broad. In order to
sharpen the transitions we tried varying the La/Ba/Ca ratios. Recently,
Carim and co-workers[14] observed ordering phenomena in the tetragonal
superconductor LaCaBaCu₃O_(7 + δ), which prompted us to focus on the
more homogenous (LaBaCa)₃Cu₃O_(7 + δ) materials. In the series of
tetragonal superconductors La(Ba_(1 − x)Ca_(x))₂Cu₃O_(7 + δ), only one
composition (_x_ = 0.5) showed a sharp superconducting transition. In
this paper, we report the synthesis, characterization, and
superconducting properties of the tetragonal superconductor
LaBaCaCu₃O_(7 + δ) which has a sharp transition at 78.5 K, and does not
undergo a tetragonal-to-orthorhombic transition.

## Experimental results

### Synthesis

Samples of LaBaCaCu₃O_(7 + δ) were prepared by solid-state reaction from
stoichiometric quantities of La₂O₃, BaO, CaCO₃, and CuO. The loose
powders were thoroughly mixed and fired at 1050 degC in air for 12 h
followed by a furnace cool to 975 degC. The samples were cooled to room
temperature by air quenching. Then the powders were reground and heated
at 975 degC in air for 10 h before furnace cooling to room temperature.
After grinding a second time, the powders were pressed into loose
pellets. These pellets were annealed at 575 degC in flowing O2 for 24 h
and were furnace cooled to room temperature.

### X-ray diffraction

Powder-x-ray-diffraction data were taken for samples of LaBaCaCu3O7+_d_
using Cu _Ka_ radiation in the temperature range 6-300 K. Temperature
control was maintained by a closed-cycle refrigerator mounted on the
diffractometer. The lattice parameters were calculated from the
diffraction peak positions by the least-squares method. The
room-temperature x-ray-diffraction patterns indicated that samples of
LaBaCaCu3O7+_d_ possess a single-phase tetragonal structure. The
patterns are similar to those of La3Ba3Cu6O1+_d_ and showed no
orthorhombic distortion within the limit of the x-ray method. The
room-temperature lattice parameters determined by least-squares fitting
[15] are a = 0.3870(2) nm and c = 1.161(2) nm, which are in good
agreement with literature values. [14] With our technique, we do not
observe supercell reflections. [14]

In order to determine the crystal symmetry in the superconducting state,
low-temperature x-ray diffraction patterns were collected at various
temperatures using a slow scanning speed to detect any line splittings.
No detectable splitting from a lowering of the tetragonal symmetry can
be observed down to 6 K. Within instrumental resolution, this ensures
that there is no orthorhombic distortion above 0.3

The temperature dependence of the lattice parameters and unit-cell
volume of LaBaCaCu3O7+_d_ are shown in Fig. 1. The solid line fits to
the lattice parameters yield coefficients of linear expansion of (3.9 +-
0.4) x 10-6/K in the a direction and (2.9 +- 0.2) x 10-6/K in the c
direction. Thus, the thermal expansion perpendicular to the c axis is
larger than that along the c axis by about 33

### Thermogravimetry

Thermogravimetric analysis (TGA), using a Dupont 951 TGA system, was
used to determine oxygen content of samples. The typical starting sample
mass was approximately 50 mg, with a balance resolution of 2 _m_g. A
typical scan involved flowing forming gas (6

Reduction of LaBaCaCu3O7+_d_ by H2 occurs according to the following
chemical reaction,

2LaBaCaCu₃O_(7 + δ) + (7 + 2δ)H₂

 = La₂O₃ + 6Cu + 2CaO + 2BaO + (7 + 2δ)H₂O

The La2O3, CaO, BaO, and metallic Cu formed in this reaction are
identified by x-ray diffraction. By monitoring the weight change of
LaBaCaCu3O7+_d_ in the reducing atmosphere, the absolute value of d can
be obtained.

A TGA scan showing the sample weight change with temperature to 1000
degC is shown in Fig. 2. The value d = - 0.02 is obtained. The oxygen
content of our samples showing sharp superconducting transitions were
always 7.00 +- 0.05. Samples were also made with oxygen content lower
than 7.0; however, the superconducting transition was always broad,
indicating the existence of

Figure 1: The temperature dependence of the lattice parameters a, and c,
and unit-cell volume of LaBaCaCu3O7.

Figure 2: A thermogravimetric analysis showing the sample mass change as
temperature is increased from 20 to 1000 °C in flowing forming gas (6

sublattice inhomogeneity associated with oxygen non-stoichiometry in
some regions of the sample. In order to increase the oxygen content
beyond 7.0, we annealed one sample in a high-pressure oxygen furnace at
575 degC and 3 kbar for 72 h. This was followed by a slow cool of 1
degC/min to room temperature. After superoxygenation the oxygen content
of the samples determined from TGA was 7.42+-0.05. In addition, the
sample mass was carefully determined before and after the high-pressure
oxygen treatment. This measurement gave a consistent value of 7.34+-0.05
for the final oxygen content. For this superoxygenated sample, the
magnetization measurements showed that the T_(c) shifted downward by 10
K, and the superconducting transition became very broad. No structural
change was observed in the x-ray-powder-diffraction patterns of this
high-oxygen-content sample.

### Transport

Electrical resistivity data were obtained by the standard four-probe
technique using silver paste electric contacts and a constant current
(10 mA) source. The voltage drop was measured using a digital
nanovoltmeter. Measurements were performed in the temperature range of
10-300 K.

Figure 3 shows the relative resistivity as a function of temperature for
a LaBaCaCu₃O_(7 + δ) sample. The sample exhibits the onset of
superconductivity at 78.5 K and zero resistance at 74.2 K. The high
value of the room-temperature resistivity (57 m m cm) most likely is due
to the porous nature of the powder specimen. The sample was pressed into
a loose pellet in the final annealing, to promote uniform oxygen
diffusion. The normal-state resistivity is approximately linear in
temperature above 90 K, with a distinct change in the slope of the
resistivity data occurring near 220 K. This behavior correlates with an
anomaly in the magnetic-susceptibility data described below.

### Magnetic susceptibility

Meissner effect, diamagnetic shielding, and normal-state
magnetic-susceptibility measurements were obtained between 5 and 300 K
using a Quantum Design SQUID magnetometer. Meissner effect and shielding
measurements were collected in an applied field of 10 Oe. Normal-state
properties were measured using fields ranging from 2 to 50 kOe.

Figure 4 shows the Meissner effect and diamagnetic shielding in
LaBaCaCu₃O_(7 + δ) between 5 and 120 K. These data clearly show that
superconductivity is a bulk property of the sample. The Meissner effect
is approximately 10

The normal-state magnetic susceptibility of LaBaCaCu₃O_(7 + δ) was
examined up to 300 K. The susceptibility is positive and can be fitted
by a Curie-Weiss law of the form χ = χ₀ + C/(T − Θ) in the temperature
ranges 80-180 K, where _kh_0 is the temperature-independent
susceptibility, C is the Curie constant, and Θ is the Curie-Weiss
temperature. Figure 5 plots 1/(χ − χ₀) vs T for the LaBaCaCu₃O_(7 + δ)
sample. Values of _kh_0, C, and Θ obtained by a least-squares fit are
2.63+-0-4 emu/mol, 7.54 x10-2 emu K/mol, and 0.4 K, respectively. A
straight line through the lower temperature data in Fig. 5 indicates the
quality of this fit. At about 180 K, the inverse magnetic susceptibility
deviates downward from this fit. This smooth change in slope in
1/(χ − χ₀) vs T continues from approximately 180 to 220 K defining a
changeover region of width 40 K. For temperatures above 220 K, the data
resume a Curie-Weiss behavior with the values of _kh_0, C, and Θ being
3.13x10-4 emu/mol, 7.22x10-2 emu K/mol, and  11.4 K. The 220-K onset of
the changeover region corresponds to a distinct change in slope of the
resistivity data shown in Fig. 3. Since powder-x-ray-diffraction
experiments reveal no overt modification in lattice symmetry, we
hypothesize these correlated features in the magnetic susceptibility and
electrical resistivity origi

Figure 4: Meissner effect (field cooled) and diamagnetic shielding curve
(zero field cooled) as measured at H = 10.0 Oe for LaBaCaCu₃O₇

Figure 3: Relative resistivity vs temperature for the tetragonal
superconductor LaBaCaCu₃O₇. The zero-resistance transition point occurs
at 74.2 K. The inset focuses on the break in slope at 220 K.

nate from a more subtle sublattice ordering.

We analyze the susceptibility data by writing the total
temperature-independent part of the susceptibility as

$$\chi_{0} = \chi^{\rm{core}} + \chi^{\rm{Pauli}} + \chi^{\rm{Landau}}$$

, where _kh_core is the core diamagnetism term, _kh_Pauli is the Pauli
paramagnetism due to the conduction electrons, and _kh_Landau is the
diamagnetic orbital contribution due to the conduction electrons. The
core diamagnetism may be estimated from tabulated values16[La3+:-20;
Ba2+:-32; Ca2+:-8; Cu2+:-11; O2+:-12 (all in units of 10-6 emu/mol)]
which yield a value of _kh_core = -1.77 x 10-4 emu/mol. Representing the
conduction-electron band effects by an effective mass, _m_*, permits one
to relate _kh_Pauli to _kh_Landau (Ref. 17)

$$\chi^{\rm{Landau}} = - \frac{1}{3}\left( \frac{m}{m^{\bullet}} \right)^{2}\chi^{\rm{Pauli}}$$

One can estimate the value of the electronic specific-heat coefficient,
g, from the measured Pauli susceptibility using the free-electron
conversion
$\gamma = \frac{1}{3}\left( \pi k_{B}/\mu_{B} \right)^{2}\chi^{\rm{Pauli}}$.
This estimate does not take into account various enhancements to the
susceptibility or specific heat which do not apply to each equally.
Therefore, this formula is only a very rough approximation; however, it
is still important to get estimates of these critical parameters. By
neglecting various enhancements, we approximate the effective mass _m_*
by the free-electron mass m, so that _kh_Landau = -1_x_Pauli. Then, Eq.
(1) is reduced to

$$\chi^{\rm{Pauli}} = \frac{1}{2}\left( \chi_{0} - \chi^{\rm{core}} \right)$$

. Using these approximations yields an estimate for _kh_Pauli of 6.60 x
10-4 emu/mol. This gives an estimate of g to be 48.1 mJ/K2 mol (16.0
mJ/K2 mol Cu). For LaBaCaCu3O7+_δ_, there are no reported values of g
from specific-heat measurements to compare with our value derived from
the magnetic susceptibility. However, there are reported values on
YBa2Cu3O7-_δ_ and (La2-_x_Sr_x_)CuO4. For example, Nevitt, Crabtree, and
Klippert18 obtained 54 mJ/K2 mol [18 mJ/K2 (mol Cu)] and 20 mJ/K2 (mol
Cu) for YBa2Cu3O7-_δ_ and La1.85Sr0.15CuO4, respectively, from heat
capacity measurements, which are consistent with our results.

The upper critical field _H__c_2(_T_) up to 50 kOe was measured
magnetically with the SQUID magnetometer for temperatures near T_(c). In
our experiments we observe no evidence of flux lattice melting as
reported in some single-crystal studies.19 The temperature dependence of
_H__c_2 is shown in Fig. 6. The slope of the upper critical-field curve
near T_(c), in conjunction with the electronic heat-capacity coefficient
estimated from the measured Pauli susceptibility, provides an estimate
of certain normal-state and superconducting parameters. Values of the
Ginzburg-Landau (GL) parameters20 are derived using the BCS Gorkov
equations21 near T_(c) in the dirty limit. The GL parameters _ξ_GL,
_λ_GL, and _κ_GL depend only on quantities such as T_(c), _γ_, and the
residual resistivity _ρ_. The intrinsically short coherence length of
the superconducting oxides ( 20 A) is not unlike the small coherence
length ( 100 A) of many traditional superconductors in the dirty limit.
Therefore, while direct applicability of the GL equations to the
high-_T__c_ materials has not been substantiated, the short coherence
length makes this approach reasonable. We note that parameters derived
in this manner are consistent with experimental results.

Table 1 contains the values of the experimentally determined quantities,
as well as the parameters derived from them. The value of T_(c) was
determined from the onset of zero-resistance. The value of
(_dH__c_2/_dT_)_T_ = T_(c) is taken from Fig. 6 and is shown in Table 1,
along with the Maki parameter21,22

$$a = 5.2758 \times 10^{- 2}\left( - \frac{dH_{c2}(\text{kOe})}{dT} \right)_{T = T_{c}}$$

. The residual resistivity _ρ_ is determined from

ρ = 42.56a/γ

, in units of _m_α_ cm. The values of the GL parameters are

Figure 5: Inverse susceptibility vs temperature for LaBaCaCu3O. Two
straight lines represent least-squares fits to the data as described in
the text.

Figure 6: Temperature dependence of upper critical field _H__c_2 for
LaBaCaCu3O.

then determined from the following equations:[23]

$$\xi_{\rm GL}(T) = [8.57 \times 10^{2}/(\rho T_{c}\gamma)^{1/2}]\left[1-\frac{T}{T_{c}}\right]^{-1/2},$$

$$\lambda_{\rm GL}(T) = [6.42 \times 10^{2}(\rho/T_{c})^{1/2}]\left(1-\frac{T}{T_{c}}\right]^{-1/2},$$

in units of A, and

κ = 0.749[γ]^(1/2)ρ ,

where all lengths are in units of A, and g is in units of mJ/K2cm3. The
value of _z_GL indicates that the LaBaCaCu3O7+_s_ superconductor has
very low coherence length compared with traditional low-temperature
superconductors. The x value shows that the LaBaCaCu3O7+_d_ compound is
an extreme type-II superconductor.

## Discussion and Conclusion

The material examined, LaBaCaCu3O7+_d_, in the present study has
equiatomic concentrations of La, Ba, and Ca, which give rise to a sharp
superconducting transition. In contrast, samples with different
concentrations in the system La1.5(Ba1-_x_Ca_x_)1.5Cu3O7+_d_, have broad
superconducting transitions under a wide variety of preparation
conditions. It is natural to explain the observed phenomenon by
considering the ordering of the cations La, Ba, and Ca. The
high-resolution electron microscopy combined with image simulation by
Carim, de Jong, and Leeuw[14] indicates that ordering of the cations La,
Ba, and Ca as well as oxygen ordering exists in the tetragonal
superconductor LaBaCaCu3O7+_d_. There may be a correlation between
ordering and the superconducting transition in LaBaCaCu3O7+_d_ compounds
with varying La/Ba/Ca ratios. The basic structure is very similar to
YBa2Cu3O7+_d_, with Ca on the Y sites and La on Ba and probably Y
sites.[14] X-ray diffraction experiments showed that the LaBaCaCu3O7+_d_
compounds remain tetragonal down to 6 K. One interesting aspect of this
data is the distinct change in the slope of the norml-state resistivity
and inverse magnetic-susceptibility data near 220 K. This provides
evidence of a more subtle type of transition, which may be associated
with sublattice disorder.

By combining the magnetization data and thermogravimetric analysis, we
observe that samples with lower oxygen content result in broader
superconducting transitions, although the _T_c onset remained roughly
constant at 74 K. An excess oxygen content of 7.42 obtained by
high-pressure annealing showed a broadened superconducting transition
with a _T_c suppressed by 10 K. Of the samples examined, those with
oxygen content near 7.0 showed the sharpest superconducting transitions
(D_T_c < 4 K).

The high-_T_c superconductors are particularly sensitive to the type of
sublattice disorder discussed above. Since the coherence length is small
( 20 A), sample inhomogeneity, even over length scales of only a few
unit cells, could lead to a mixture of superconducting and
nonsuperconducting regions, with the volume fraction of superconducting
material and transition width depending sensitively on oxygen content
and ordering.

## Acknowledgments

Research at Davis performed under the auspices of the U.S. Department of
Energy for Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory under Contract No.
W-7405-ENG-48. Work at Livermore performed under the auspices of the
U.S. Department of Energy by Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory
under Contract No. W-7405-ENG-48.

## References

* [1] M. K. Wu, J. R. Ashburn, C. J. Torng, P. H. Hor, R. L. Meng, L.
Gao, Z. J. Huang, Y. Q. Wang, and C. W. Chu, Phys. Rev. Lett. **58**,
908 (1987). * [2] T. Siegrist, S. Sunshine, D. W. Murphy, R. J. Cava,
and S. M. Zahurak, Phys. Rev. B **35**, 7137 (1987). * [3] F. Beech, S.
Miraglia, A. Santoro, and R. S. Roth, Phys. Rev. B **35**, 8778
(1987). * [4] D. Jorgensen, B. W. Veal, W. K. Kwok, G. W. Crabtree, A.
Umezawa, L. J. Nowicki, and A. P. Paulikas, Phys. Rev. B **36**, 5731
(1987). * [5] Y. Tokura, J. B. Torrance, T. C. Huang, and A. I. Nazzal,
Phys. Rev. B **38**, 7156 (1988). * [6] J. Langen, M. Veit, M. Galffy,
H.-D. Jostarndt, A. Erle, S. Blumenroder, H. Schmidt, and E. Zirngiebl,
Solid State Commun. **65**, 973 (1988). * [7] A. M. Umarji, P.
Somasundaram, L. Ganapathi, and C. N. R. Rao, Solid State Commun.
**66**, 177 (1988). * [8] I. Kirschner, J. Bankuti, M. Gal, and K.
Torkos, Phys. Rev. B **36**, 2313 (1987). * [9] I. Nakai, K. Imai, T.
Kawashima, and R. Yoshizaki, Jpn. J. Appl. Phys. **26**, L1244 (1987). *
[10] A. Maeda, T. Yabe, K. Uchinokura, M. Izumi, and S. Tanaka, Jpn. J.
Appl. Phys. **26**, L1550 (1987). * [11] R. Yoshizaki, H. Sawada, T.
Iwazumi, Y. Saito, Y. Abe, H. Ikeda, K. Imai, and I. Nakai, Jpn. J.
Appl. Phys. **26**, L1703 (1987). * [12] C. C. Torardi, E. M. McCarron,
M. A. Subramanian, A. W. Sleight, and D. E. Cox, Mater. Res. Bull
**22**, 1563 (1987). * [13] D. B. Mitzi, P. T. Fetter, J. M. Newsam, D.
J. Webb, P. Klavins, A. J. Jacobson, and A. Kapitulnik, Phys. Rev. B
**38**, 6667 (1988). * [14] A. H. Carim, A. F. de Jong, and D. M. de
Leeuw, Phys. Rev.

  ------------------------------------------------------ -------
                        T_(c) (K)                         74.2
                      γ (mJ/K2’mol)                        48
   $-\left[\frac{dH_{c2}}{dT}\right]_{T=T_{c}}$ (kOe/K)   10.7
                            α                             0.565
                        ρ (μ mcm)                          74
                    $\kappa_{\rm GL}$                      32
                  $\xi_{\rm GL}$(0) (Å)                    20
                $\lambda_{\rm GL}$(0) (Å)                  640
  ------------------------------------------------------ -------

Table 1: Values of the experimentally determined quantities and the
parameters derived from them.

B **38**, 7009 (1988). * (15) E. R. Hovertreydt, J. Appl. Crystallogr.
**16**, 651 (1983). * (16) P. W. Selwood, _Magnetochemistry_, 2nd ed.
(Interscience, New York, 1970), p. 78. * (17) R. M. White, _Quantum
Theory of Magnetism_ (McGraw-Hill, New York, 1970), p. 86. * (18) M. V.
Nevitt, G. W. Crabtree, and T. E. Klippert, Phys. Rev. B **36**, 2398
(1987). * (19) P. L. Gammel, L. F. Schneemeyer, J. V. Waszczak, and D.
J. Bishop, Phys. Rev. Lett. **61**, 1666 (1988). * (20) B. Serin, in
_Superconductivity_, edited by R. D. Parks (Decker, New York, 1968), p.
925. * (21) N. R. Werthamer, in _Superconductivity_, edited by R. D.
Parks (Deckker, New York, 1968), p. 321. * (22) N. R. Werthamer, E.
Helfand, and P. C. Hohenberg, Phys. Rev. **147**, 295 (1966). * (23) T.
P. Orlando, E. J. McNiff, Jr., S. Foner, and M. R. Beasley, Phys. Rev. B
**19**, 4545 (1979).
