# Moisture-induced superconductivity in FeTe_(0.8)S_(0.2)

Y. Mizuguchi

National Institute for Materials Science, 1-2-1 Sengen, Tsukuba
305-0047, Japan

K. Deguchi

National Institute for Materials Science, 1-2-1 Sengen, Tsukuba
305-0047, Japan Transformative Research-Project on Iron-Pnictides, Japan
Science and Technology Agency, 1-2-1 Sengen, Tsukuba 305-0047, Japan

S. Tsuda

National Institute for Materials Science, 1-2-1 Sengen, Tsukuba
305-0047, Japan Transformative Research-Project on Iron-Pnictides, Japan
Science and Technology Agency, 1-2-1 Sengen, Tsukuba 305-0047, Japan

T. Yamaguchi

National Institute for Materials Science, 1-2-1 Sengen, Tsukuba
305-0047, Japan Transformative Research-Project on Iron-Pnictides, Japan
Science and Technology Agency, 1-2-1 Sengen, Tsukuba 305-0047, Japan

Y. Takano

National Institute for Materials Science, 1-2-1 Sengen, Tsukuba
305-0047, Japan Transformative Research-Project on Iron-Pnictides, Japan
Science and Technology Agency, 1-2-1 Sengen, Tsukuba 305-0047, Japan

###### Abstract

Moisture-induced superconductivity was observed in FeTe_(0.8)S_(0.2).
With exposing the sample to the air, the zero-resistivity temperature
and the superconducting volume fraction were enhanced up to 7.2 K and
48.5

pacs: 10.1103/PhysRevB.81.214510 + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL REVIEW
B **81**, 214510 (2010)

## I Introduction

Iron chalcogenides attract researchers as the simplest iron-based
superconductors.[1; 2] The tetragonal FeSe superconductor shows dramatic
pressure effect on transition temperature $T_{\rm c}$; the onset
temperature $T_{\rm c}^{\rm onset}$ increases from 13 to 37 K at 4-6
GPa.[3; 4; 5; 6] Crystal structural analysis and NMR studies under high
pressure indicated that the enhancement of $T_{\rm c}$ was related to
the change in the crystal structure or the magnetic states.[4; 5; 6]
Correlation between superconductivity and magnetism is likely to be
important to understand the mechanism of superconductivity in the iron
chalcogenides. In fact, tetragonal FeTe, which has a structure analogous
to superconducting FeSe, undergoes antiferromagnetic ordering at ∼70 K
and does not show superconductivity. The magnetic ordering is suppressed
by S or Se substitution, and superconductivity appears.[8; 9; 10; 11]
However, hydrostatic pressure did not induce superconductivity in
FeTe.[12; 13] To clarify the reason why only the Te-site substitution
can induce superconductivity in FeTe, we focus on S-substituted FeTe.

An optimum way to synthesize the high-quality superconducting sample of
FeTe_(1 − x)S_(x) has not been established yet, probably due to a
solubility limit of S for the Te site. The superconducting properties of
FeTe_(1 − x)S_(x) depend on the sample preparation method.[8] The
FeTe_(0.8)S_(0.2) sample synthesized by the melting method showed a
sharp superconducting transition at $T_{\rm c}^{\rm onset}$=10.5 K;
however, the obtained sample contained impurity phases. On the other
hand, the FeTe_(0.8)S_(0.2) sample synthesized using the solid-state
reaction method was almost the single phase; however the
solid-state-reacted sample showed a broad transition in temperature
dependence of resistivity, and diamagnetism corresponding to
superconductivity was not observed. The cause of filamentary
superconductivity in the solid-state-reacted sample would be an
insufficiency of the shrinkage of lattice, in other words, an
insufficiency of S concentration. Here we report moisture-induced
superconductivity in FeTe_(0.8)S_(0.2) synthesized by the solid-state
reaction.

## II Experimental details

The polycrystalline samples of FeTe_(0.8)S_(0.2) were prepared using the
solid-state reaction method as described in Ref. [8]. At first, we
synthesized the TeS precursor by reacting the Te (99.9

## III Results and discussion

Figure 1 shows the temperature dependence of resistivity

Figure 1: (Color online) Temperature dependence of resistivity for the
FeTe_(0.8)S_(0.2) sample kept in the air for several days.

for FeTe_(0.8)S_(0.2) with several air-exposure time from 0 to 110 days.
For the as-grown sample, zero resistivity is not observed while an onset
of the superconducting transition is observed at 8.0 K. The diamagnetic
signal was not observed in the susceptibility measurement, indicating
the absence of bulk superconductivity. Surprisingly, after exposing the
sample to the air for 2 days, zero resistivity appears around
$T_{\rm c}^{\rm zero}$= 2 K. With increasing air-exposure time, both the
$T_{\rm c}^{\rm onset}$ and $T_{\rm c}^{\rm zero}$ increased up to 10.2
K and 7.2 K, respectively. The superconducting transition becomes
sharper with increasing air-exposure time. Figure 2 shows the
temperature dependence of resistivity for as-grown FeTe_(0.8)S_(0.2),
110-day-old FeTe_(0.8)S_(0.2) with several air-exposure time from 0 to
110 days. For the as-grown sample, zero resistivity is not observed at
8.0 K. The diamagnetic signal was not observed in the susceptibility
measurement, indicating the absence of bulk superconductivity.
Surprisingly, after exposing the sample to the air for 2 days, zero
resistivity appears around $T_{\rm c}^{\rm zero}$= 2 K. With increasing
air-exposure time, both the $T_{\rm c}^{\rm onset}$ and
$T_{\rm c}^{\rm zero}$ increased up to 10.2 K and 7.2 K, respectively.
The superconducting transition becomes sharper with increasing
air-exposure time. Figure 2 shows the temperature dependence of
resistivity for as- FeTe_(0.8)S_(0.2) and Fe_(1.08)Te. For Fe_(1.08)Te,
we can find an anomaly corresponding to the structural and magnetic
transition around 70 K. The anomaly seems to be suppressed completely
for as-grown FeTe_(0.8)S_(0.2); however, bulk superconductivity is not
observed. After 110 days, the sharp superconducting transition appears.
The normal-state resistivity of 110-day-old FeTe_(0.8)S_(0.2) is clearly
lower than that as grown, implying the change in the carrier density by
the air exposure.

Figure 3 shows the temperature dependence of magnetic susceptibility for
FeTe_(0.8)S_(0.2) with several air-exposure time from 20 to 140 days.
Although we did not observe the superconducting transition for the
as-grown sample, the diamagnetic signal corresponding to
superconductivity appeared for 20-day-old FeTe_(0.8)S_(0.2). With
increasing air-exposure time, the $T_{\rm c}$ increases and the
diamagnetic signal is enhanced. The $T_{\rm c}$ estimated from
susceptibility ($T_{\rm c}^{\rm mag}$) is plotted in Fig. 4 as a
function of air-exposure time with the $T_{\rm c}^{\rm onset}$ and
$T_{\rm c}^{\rm zero}$ determined from the resistivity measurements. The
$T_{\rm c}^{\rm mag}$ almost corresponds to $T_{\rm c}^{\rm zero}$ and
reaches 7.2 K after 140 days. The superconducting volume fraction was
calculated from a difference between the value of the normal state and 2
K, and plotted in Fig. 4 as a function of air-exposure time. The
superconducting volume fraction is dramatically enhanced up to 48.5

To clarify the origin of the dramatic change in the superconducting
properties induced by the air exposure, we car

Figure 6: (Color online) Temperature dependence of magnetic
susceptibility for (a) FeTe_(0.8)S_(0.2) kept in vacuum, (b)
FeTe_(0.8)S_(0.2) kept in water, (c) FeTe_(0.8)S_(0.2) kept in O₂ gas,
and (d) Fe_(1.08)Te kept in water. The superconducting transition was
observed only in (b).

Figure 7: (Color online) Temperature dependence of normalized
susceptibility for the samples kept in the hot water for 4 h and 24 h,
respectively.

ried out powder x-ray diffraction for FeTe_(0.8)S_(0.2) just after the
synthesis and after 100 and 200 days. Figure 5(a) shows the x-ray
diffraction patterns for as-grown and 200-day-old FeTe_(0.8)S_(0.2). The
peaks were indexed using the P4/mmm space group. Lattice constants were
calculated to be a =3.8158(9) and c =6.2445(23) A for as-grown
FeTe_(0.8)S_(0.2), a =3.8114(8) and c =6.2421(21) A for 100-day-old
FeTe_(0.8)S_(0.2), and a =3.8097(8) and c =6.2307(20) A for 200-day-old
FeTe_(0.8)S_(0.2), respectively. The calculated lattice constants a and
c are plotted in Figs. 5(b) and 5(c) as a function of air-exposure time.
The lattice constants slightly decrease with the air exposure for 200
days. The shrinkage of lattice should be related to the dramatic change
in the superconducting properties induced by air exposure.

To investigate the factor that induced superconductivity, we measured
temperature dependence of susceptibility for the samples kept in several
conditions. The as-grown FeTe_(0.8)S_(0.2) samples were kept in vacuum
(<0.5 Pa), ion-exchanged water, O₂ gas, and N₂ gas for several days at
room temperature. Figures 6(a)-6(c) show the typical temperature
dependence of susceptibility for the samples kept in vacuum for 40 days,
water for 10 days, and O₂ gas for 40 days, respectively. The
superconducting transition is observed only for the sample kept in
water, although the samples kept in both vacuum and O₂ gas do not show
the superconducting transition. Also the sample kept in N₂ gas for 40
days does not show the superconducting transition. Therefore, we
concluded that the moisture in the air induced the dramatic change in
the superconducting properties. We also investigated the magnetic
properties of Fe_(1.08)Te kept in the water for 50 days as shown in Fig.
6(d). There is no sign of superconductivity. In fact, moisture-induced
superconductivity is unique for FeTe_(1.4)S_(x) among the iron
chalcogenides.

Recently, water-induced superconductivity was reported also in SrFe₂As₂,
which is one of the parent phases of the iron-based superconductors.[14]
The authors suggested that superconductivity was induced when the
lattice was compressed by exposing the sample to H₂O-related species.
Moisture-induced superconductivity in FeTe_(0.8)S_(0.2) might be induced
as in SrFe₂As₂. In the case of the water-intercalated superconductor
Na₃CoO₂⋅Y₂O, superconductivity appears when the c axis is expanded by
the partial substitution of Na⁺ ion by H₃O⁺ ion.[15] On the basis of the
shrinkage of lattice in the air-exposed FeTe_(0.8)S_(0.2), the H₃O⁺ ion
would not be the origin of moisture-induced superconductivity.

In this respect, one of the candidate elements to explain
moisture-induced superconductivity in FeTe_(0.8)S_(0.2) is the H⁺ ion
because the ionic radius is very small. Similar situation was reported
in the Li⁺-intercalated KCa₂Nb₃O₁₀ superconductor. Superconductivity is
induced by the Li⁺ intercalation without any change in the lattice
constants.[16] The H⁺-ion intercalation into the interlayer of
FeTe_(0.8)S_(0.2) would not change the lattice constants largely. If the
H⁺ was intercalated, the electron carriers should be generated in the Fe
layer. The decrease in resistivity for the air-exposed FeTe_(0.8)S_(0.2)
as shown in Fig. 2 would be originated in the increase in the electron
carrier density. It might completely suppress the magnetism that had
barely survived in as-grown FeTe_(0.8)S_(0.2). Another candidate is the
OH⁻ ion. If the OH⁻ ion were intercalated to the interlayer site, it
would compress the lattice because there is the excess Fe at the
interlayer site.

The O²⁻ ion is also a candidate to explain this phenomenon because the
solution of oxygen in the water should not be neglected. Furthermore,
O²⁻ has a valence same with S²⁻ and Te²⁻, and its ionic radius is the
smallest among them. The shrinkage of lattice might be due to the
partial substitution of O for the Te/S site. However, the sample kept in
O₂ gas for 40 days did not show superconductivity. If the origin of
moisture-induced superconductivity in FeTe_(0.8)S_(0.2) were the O²⁻
ion, the water should play an important role to induce superconductivity
as a catalyst at room temperature. In any case, the microscopic
investigation sensitive to a local structure such as extended x-ray
absorption fine structure is needed to determine the element that
induces superconductivity.

If any chemical intercalation or substitution would occur in the
moisture, the speed of the reaction should depend on the surrounding
temperature. In this respect, we investigated the temperature dependence
of susceptibility for the samples kept in the hot water (ion-exchanged
water) with a temperature of ∼70 ^(∘)C. Figure 7 shows the temperature
dependence of normalized susceptibility for the two samples kept in the
hot water for 4 and 24 h. Although the sample kept in the cold water (at
room temperature) for a few days shows no sign of superconductivity, the
superconducting transition is observed for the sample kept in the hot
water for only 4 h. Furthermore, with increasing immersion time, both
$T_{\rm c}$ and the superconducting volume fraction are enhanced up to
6.8 K and 15.6

## IV Conclusion

We reported moisture-induced superconductivity in FeTe_(0.8)S_(0.2)
synthesized by the solid-state reaction method. With increasing
air-exposure time, the $T_{\rm c}$ and superconducting volume fraction
were enhanced up to 7.2 K and 48.5

## Acknowledgment

This work was partly supported by Grant-in-Aid for Scientific Research
(KAKENHI).

## References

* [1] Y. Kamihara, T. Watanabe, M. Hirano, and H. Hosono, J. Am. Chem.
Soc. **130**, 3296 (2008). * [2] F. C. Hsu, J. Y. Luo, K. W. The, T. K.
Chen, T. W. Huang, P. M. Wu, Y. C. Lee, Y. L. Huang, Y. Y. Chu, D. C.
Yan, and M. K. Wu, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. **105**, 14262
(2008). * [3] Y. Mizuguchi, F. Tomioka, S. Tsuda, T. Yamaguchi, and Y.
Takano, Appl. Phys. Lett. **93**, 152505 (2008). * [4] S. Margadonna, Y.
Takabayashi, Y. Ohishi, Y. Mizuguchi, Y. Takano, T. Kagayama, T.
Nakagawa, M. Takata, and K. Prassides, Phys. Rev. B **80**, 064506
(2009). * [5] S. Medvedev, T. M. McQueen, I. Trojan, T. Palasyuk, M. I.
Eremets, R. J. Cava, S. Naghavi, F. Casper, V. Ksenofontov, G. Wortmann,
and C. Felser, Nature Mater. **8**, 630 (2009). * [6] S. Masaki, H.
Kotegawa, Y. Hara, H. Tou, K. Murata, Y. Mizuguchi, and Y. Takano, J.
Phys. Soc. Jpn. **78**, 063704 (2009). * [7] T. Imai, K. Ahilan, F. L.
Ning, T. M. McQueen, and R. J. Cava, Phys. Rev. Lett. **102**, 177005
(2009). * [8] Y. Mizuguchi, F. Tomioka, S. Tsuda, T. Yamaguchi, and Y.
Takano, Appl. Phys. Lett. **94**, 012503 (2009). * [9] K. W. Yeh, T. W.
Huang, Y. L. Huang, T. K. Chen, F. C. Hsu, P. M. Wu, Y. C. Lee, Y. Y.
Chu, C. L. Chen, J. Y. Luo, D. C. Yan, and M. K. Wu, EPL. **84**, 37002
(2008). * [10] Y. Mizuguchi, F. Tomioka, S. Tsuda, T. Yamaguchi, and Y.
Takano, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **78**, 074712 (2009). * [11] M. H. Fang, H.
M. Pham, B. Qian, T. J. Liu, E. K. Vehstedt, Y. Liu, L. Spinu, and Z. Q.
Mao, Phys. Rev. B **78**, 224503 (2008). * [12] Y. Mizuguchi, F.
Tomioka, S. Tsuda, T. Yamaguchi, and Y. Takano, Physica C **469**, 1027
(2009). * [13] H. Okada, H. Takahashi, Y. Mizuguchi, Y. Takano, and H.
Takahashi, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **78**, 083709 (2009). * [14] H.
Hiramatsu, T. Katase, T. Kamiya, M. Hirano, and H. Hosono, Phys. Rev. B
**80**, 052501 (2009). * [15] H. Sakurai, M. Osada, and E.
Takayama-Muromachi, Chem. Mater. **19**, 6073 (2007). * [16] Y. Takano,
S. Takayanagi, S. Ogawa, T. Yamadaya, and N. Mori, Solid State Commun.
**103**, 215 (1997).
