Sb-NQR probe for superconducting properties in the Pr-based
filled-skutterudite compound PrRu₄Sb₁₂

M. Yogi,¹ H. Kotegawa,¹ Y. Imamura,¹ G.-q. Zheng,¹ Y. Kitaoka,¹ H.
Sugawara,² and H. Sato²

¹Department of Physical Science, Graduate School of Engineering Science,
Osaka University, Osaka 560-8531, Japan

²Graduate School of Science, Tokyo Metropolitan University,
Minami-Ohsawa 1-1, Hachioji, Tokyo 192-0397, Japan

Received 14 January 2003; published 9 May 2003

###### Abstract

We report the electronic and superconducting properties in the Pr-based
filled-skutterudite superconductor PrRu₄Sb₁₂ with T_(c) = 1.3 K via the
measurements of nuclear-quadrupole-resonance frequency r_(Q) and
nuclear-spin-lattice-relaxation time T₁ of Sb nuclei. The temperature
dependence of r_(Q) has revealed the energy scheme of Pr³⁺ crystal
electric field that is consistent with an energy separation Δ_(CEF)∼ 70
K between the ground state and the first-excited state. In the normal
state, the Korringa relation of
(1/T₁T₁)${}_{\rm Pr}$^(m)${}^{\rm const}$ is valid, with
[(1/T₁T₁)${}_{\rm Pr}$${}^{\rm f}$(1/T₁T₁)^(1/2)^(1/2)∼1.44, where
(1/T₁T₁)${}_{\rm La}$ is for LaRu₄Sb₁₂. These results are understood in
terms of a conventional Fermi-liquid picture in which the Pr-4/^(z)
state derives neither magnetic nor quadrupolar degrees of freedom at low
temperatures. In the superconducting state, 1/T₁ shows a distinct
coherence peak just below T_(c), followed by an exponential decrease
with a value of 2Δ/k_(B)T_(c) = 3.1. These results demonstrate that
PrRu₄Sb₁₂ is a typical weak-coupling s-wave superconductor, in strong
contrast with the heavy-fermion superconductor PrOs₄Sb₁₂ that is in an
unconventional strong coupling regime. The present study on PrRu₄Sb₁₂
highlights that the Pr-4/²-derived nonmagnetic doublet plays a key role
in the unconventional electronic and superconducting properties in
PrOs₄Sb₁₂.

pacs: 71.27.+a, 76.60.−k + Footnote †: preprint: APS/123-QED

Filled-skutterudite compounds ReT₄Pn₁₂ (Re = rare earth; T = Fe, Ru, and
Os₅, Pn = pnictogen) show rich properties. PrRu₄Pt₁₂ and PrFe₄P₁₂ show a
metal-insulator transition and undergo an anomalous heavy-fermion (HF)
state, respectively, whereas PrRu₄As₁₂, PrRu₄Sb₁₂, and PrOs₄Sb₁₂ exhibit
a superconducting (SC) transition.^(1, −4) Bauer _et al._ reported that
PrOs₄Sb₁₂ shows HF behavior and superconductors at T_(c) = 1.85 K. It is
the first Pr-based HF superconductor.⁴ Its HF state was inferred from
the jump in the specific heat at T_(c) , the slope of the upper critical
field H_(c2) near T_(c) , and the electronic specific-heat coefficient
γ∼ 350-500 mJ/mole K². Magnetic susceptibility, thermodynamic
measurements, and inelastic neutron-scattering experiments revealed the
ground state of the Pr³⁺ ions in the cubic crystal electric field (CEF)
to be the Γ₃ nonmagnetic doublet.^(4, 5) In the Pr-based compounds with
the Γ₃ ground state, electric quadrupolar interactions play an important
role. In analogy with a quadrupolar Kondo model,⁶ it was suggested that
the HF-like behavior exhibited by PrOs₄Sb₁₂ may have something to do
with a Pr-4/²-derived quadrupole quadrupole-exchange (NQR) frequency
unraveled a low-lying CEF splitting below T₀ ∼ 10 K, associated with the
Pr³⁺ (4/²)-derived ground state. The analysis of T₁ suggests the
formation of HF state below ∼ 4 K. In the SC state, 1/T₁ shows neither a
coherence peak just below T_(c) = 1.85 K nor a T³-like power-law
behavior observed for _anisotropic_ HF superconductors with the
line-node gap. An _isotropic_ energy gap with Δ/k_(B) = 4.8 K is
suggested to open up already below T^(*) ∼ 2.3 K. It is surprising that
PrOs₄Sb₁₂ looks like an _isotropic_ HF superconductor–it may indeed
argue for Cooper pairing via quadrupolar fluctuations. Also, PrRu₄Sb₁₂
was reported to undergo a SC transition at T_(c) = 1.3 K from the
measurements of the electrical resistivity and specific heat as well as
LaRu₄Sb₁₂ with T_(c) = 3.58 K.³ It can be informative to compare
PrRu₄Sb₁₂ with PrOs₄Sb₁₂ and the related La-based superconductors as
shown in Table I.⁶

The localized character of 4/^(z) electrons, namely, the closeness of
the respective Fermi surfaces with those in LaRu₄Sb₁₂ and LaOs₄Sb₁₂, has
been confirmed in PrRu₄Sb₁₂ and PrOs₄Sb₁₂ based on the de Haas-van
Alphen (dHvA) experiment.^(8, 9) On the contrary, the mass enhancement
in PrRu₄Sb₁₂ is much smaller than in PrOs₄Sb₁₂. For PrOs₄Sb₁₂, the CEF
ground state was inferred to be the non-Kramers Γ₃ doublet carrying
quadrupole moments, whereas the ground state for PrRu₄Sb₁₂ was inferred
to be the Γ₁ singlet.^(3, 10) Recently, however, there have been several
reports that are consistent with the CEF ground state for PrOs₄Sb₁₂
being the Γ₁ singlet.^(11, −13) On the comparison in T_(c) with the La
compounds, the two compounds have different trends; T_(c) for PrOs₄Sb₁₂
is higher than that for La compounds, which is unusual if we take into
account that PrOs₄Sb₁₂ contains the magnetic element Pr ion. These
remarkable differences in the underlying CEF level scheme and hence
electronic and SC characteristics between PrOs₄Sb₁₂ and PrRu₄Sb₁₂ may be
ascribed to an intimate change in the hybridization strength of the
Pr-4f state with conduction electrons comprising respective Os₄Sb₁₂ and
Ru₄Sb₁₂ cages. In this context, it is needed that further light is shed
on the SC and electronic characteristics in the Pr-based
superconductors.

In this paper, we report the normal and SC properties in the
filled-skutterudite compound PrRu₄Sb₁₂ and LaRu₄Sb via the measurements
of NQR frequency ν_(Q) and nuclear-spin-lattice-relaxation time T₁ of Sb
nuclei.

Single crystals of PrRu₄Sb₁₂ and LaRu₄Sb₁₂ were grown by the Sb-flux
method.[3] The observed dHvA oscillations in both compounds confirm the
high quality of the samples.[9] Measurement of ac susceptibility
confirmed the SC transitions at T_(c) = 1.3 K and 3.5 K for PrRu₄Sb₁₂
and LaRu₄Sb₁₂, respectively. The single crystal was crushed into powder
for Sb-NQR measurement. The ^(121, 123)Sb-NQR measurements were
performed using the conventional saturation-recovery method at zero
field (H = 0). The NQR-T₁ measurement was carried out using the NQR
transition 2ν_(Q) at the T range of T = 0.24-240 K using a ³He-⁴He
dilution refrigerator.

Figure 1(a) displays the ^(121, 123)Sb-NQR spectra at 4.2 K. Sb nuclei
have two isotopes, ¹²¹Sb and ¹²²Sb. The respective nuclear spins 1 =
5/2(¹²¹Sb) and 7/2 (¹²³Sb) have natural abundances 57.3

Figure 2 presents the T dependencies of (1/T₁T) for PrRu₄Sb₁₂ and
LaRu₄Sb₁₂. In the normal state, T₁ reveals a Korringa relation
(1/T₁T)${}_{\rm{Pr}}$= 1.73 (s K)⁻1 for PrRu₄Sb₁₂, being comparable to
(1/T₁T)${}_{\rm{La}}$= 1.2 (s K)⁻1 for LaRu₄Sb₁₂. The 1/T₁T= const law
deviates at temperatures higher than ∼ 30 K in PrRu₄Sb₁₂. Since such a
deviation is seen in LaRu₄Sb₁₂ above ∼ 25 K as well, these deviations
are not derived by the presence of Pr³⁺ ions, but may be ascribed to a
conduction-band derived effect inherent to the filled-skutterudite
structure. In the filled-skutterudite structure, a Pr atom forms in a
body-centered-cubic structure, surrounded by a cage of corner-sharing
Ru₄Sb₁₂ octahedra. The cage might begin to stretch with increasing T.
This stretching motion of cage may be relevant to the decrease in a
value of 1/T₁T= const for PrRu₄Sb₁₂, LaRu₄Sb₁₂, and LaRu₄P₁₂.[14] The
measurements of the dHvA effect and the electronic specific heat for
PrRu₄Sb₁₂ and LaRu₄Sb₁₂ revealed that the mass-renormalization effect in
the Fermi-liquid state is not so significant in PrRu₄Sb₁₂, suggesting
that Pr³⁺-4/J² electrons are well localized in PrRu₄Sb₁₂.

Figure 1: (a) ¹²¹Sb- and ¹²²Sb-NQR spectra in PrRu₄Sb₁₂. (b) The
temperature dependence of NQR frequency ν_(Q) for PrRu₄Sb₁₂ and
LaRu₄Sb₁₂ at the ¹²²Sb-2ν_(Q) transitions. The inset indicates the
Pr-derived contribution in ν_(Q),
δν_(Q)=(ν_(Q))${}_{\rm{Pr}}$−(ν_(Q))${}_{\rm{La}}$. (c) T dependence of
NQR frequency for PrOs₄Sb₁₂ and LaOs₄Sb₁₂ at ¹²³Sb-2ν_(Q) transitions
(Ref. 7). The inset indicates
δν_(Q)=(ν_(Q))${}_{\rm{Pr}}$−(ν_(Q))${}_{\rm{La}}$.

Note that the value of 1/_T_1T is proportional to the square of the
density of states _N_(E_(F)) at the Fermi level. Also, it is scaled to a
_T_-linear electronic contribution γ of specific heat, giving rise to
the relation of (1/|T₁T₁⟩^(1/2)γ. Therefore, the change in the value of
(1/T₁T₁)^(1/2) is directly related to a change of N(E_(F)) in systems.
Corroborated by the fact that the value of 1/_T_1T in PrRu₄Sb₁₂ is not
so enhanced than that in LaRu₄Sb₁₂ with a ratio of
$[(1/T_{1}T_{1})_{\rm Pr}/(1/T_{1}T_{1})_{\rm La}]^{1/2}$ = 1.44, we
remark that the Pr⁺³-4/² electrons with Γ₁ singlet as the ground state
does not play a vital role for electronic and magnetic properties at low
temperatures in PrRu₄Sb₁₂.

In the SC state for PrRu₄Sb₁₂ and LaRu₄Sb₁₂, 1/_T_1 shows a distinct
coherence peak, followed by an exponential decrease below T_(c) with an
isotropic gap 2.Δ/_k__B__T__c_ = 3.1 and 3.6, respectively. These
results demonstrate that PrRu₄Sb₁₂ and LaRu₄Sb₁₂ are typical
weak-coupling s-wave superconductors. In Fig. 3 are shown the T
dependencies of 1/_T_1 for PrRu₄Sb₁₂ and PrOs₄Sb₁₂. From the comparison
in the normal and SC states, it is clear that remarkable differences
arise because the quadrupole degree of freedom plays a vital role in
PrOs₄Sb₁₂, associated with the Pr⁺³-4/f² derived non-Kramers doublet. It
may indeed argue for Cooper pairing via quadrupolar fluctuations.

To summarize, the electronic and superconducting properties in the
Pr-based filled-skutterudite superconductor PrRu₄Sb₁₂ with T_(c) = 1.3 K
were investigated through the measurements of NQR frequency ν_(Q) and
nuclear-spin-lattice-relaxation time T1 of Sb nuclei. The T dependence
of ν_(Q) has revealed the energy scheme of CEF of Pr³⁺ ion, which is
consistent with an energy separation Δ_(CEF)=70 K between the ground
state and the first-excited level. In the normal state, the Korringa
relation of (1/_T_1_T_)Pr⁻=const is valid, revealing a comparable value
$[(1/T_{1}T)_{\rm Pr}/(1/T_{1}T)_{\rm La}]^{1/2}$∼ 1.44 with
(1/_T_1_T_)${}_{\rm La}$ for LaRu₄Sb₁₂. These results are understood in
terms of the conventional Fermi-liquid picture in which the Pr-4/² state
derives neither magnetic nor quadrupolar degrees of freedom at low
temperatures. In the SC state, 1/_T_1 shows a distinct coherence peak
just below T_(c) , followed by an exponential decrease with the value of
2.Δ/_k__B__T__c_ = 3.1. These results demonstrate that PrRu₄Sb₁₂ is a
typical weak-coupling s-wave superconductor, in strong contrast with the
heavy-fermion superconductor PrOs₄Sb₁₂ that is in a unconventional
strong coupling regime.[7] The present study on PrRu₄Sb₁₂ highlights
that the Pr-4/f² derived nonmagnetic doublet plays a key role for the
unconventional electronic and superconducting properties in PrOs₄Sb₁₂.

We thank Y. Aoki and H. Harima for helpful discussions. This work was
supported by the COE Research (Grant No. 10CE2004) in Grant-in-Aid for
Scientific Research from the Ministry of Education, Sport, Science and
Culture of Japan.

## References

* [1] C. Sekine, T. Uchiumi, I. Shirotani, and T. Yagi, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**79**, 3218 (1997). * [2] I. Shirotani, T. Uchiumi, K. Ohno, C. Sekine,
Y. Nakazawa, K. Kanoda, S. Todo, and T. Yagi, Phys. Rev. B **56**, 7866
(1997). * [3] N. Takeda and M. Ishikawa, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **57**, 868
(2000). * [4] E.D. Bauer, N.A. Frederick, P.-C. Ho, V.S. Zapf, and M.B.
Maple, J. Phys. Rev. B **65**, 100506(R) (2002). * [5] M.B. Maple, P.-C.
Ho, V.S. Zapf, N.A. Frederick, E.D. Bauer, W.M. Yuhasz, F.M. Woodward,
and J.W. Lynn, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **71**, 23 (2002). * [6] D.L. Cox,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **59**, 1240 (1987). * [7] H. Kotegawa, M. Yogi, Y.
Imamura, Y. Kawasaki, G.-q. Zheng, Y.

Figure 2: Temperature dependence of 1/_T_1T for PrRu₄Sb₁₂ and LaRu₄Sb₁₂.
Solid lines are the fits calculated based on the weak-coupling s-wave
model assuming a size of isotropic gap 2Δ/_k__B__T__c_ = 3.1 and 3.6 for
PrRu₄Sb₁₂ and LaRu₄Sb₁₂, respectively.

Kitaoka, S. Ohsaki, H. Sugawara, Y. Aoki, and H. Sato, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**90**, 027001 (2003). * (8) H. Sugawara, S. Osaki, S.R. Saha, Y. Aoki,
H. Sato, Y. Inada, H. Shishido, R. Settai, Y. Onuki, H. Harima, and K.
Oikawa, Phys. Rev. B **66**, 220504(R) (2002). * (9) T.D. Matsuda, K.
Abe, F. Watanuki, H. Sugawara, Y. Aoki, H. Sato, Y. Inada, R. Settai,
and Y. Onuki, Physica B **312-313**, 832 (2002). * (10) K. Abe, H. Sato,
T.D. Matsuda, T. Namiki, H. Sugawara, and Y. Aoki, J. Phys.: Condens.
Matter **14**, 11 757 (2002). * (11) Y. Aoki, T. Namiki, S. Ohsaki, S.R.
Saha, H. Sugawara, and H. Sato, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **71**, 2098
(2002). * (12) M. Kohgi _et al._, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. (to be
published). * (13) T. Tayama _et al._ (unpublished). * (14) K. Fujiwara,
K. Ishihara, K. Miyoshi, J. Takeuchi, C. Sekine, and I. Sirotani,
Physica B **281-282**, 296 (2000).
