# Superconductivity in semimetallic Bi₃O₂S₃

L. Li,¹ D. Parker,¹ P. Babkevich,² L. Yang,^(2, 3) H. M. Ronnow,² and A.
S. Sefat¹

¹Materials Science & Technology Division, Oak Ridge National Laboratory,
Oak Ridge, Tennessee 37831, USA

²Laboratory for Quantum Magnetism (LQM), Ecole Polytechnique Federale de
Lausanne (EPFL), CH-1015 Lausanne, Switzerland

³Laboratory of Physics of Complex Matter, Ecole Polytechnique Federale
de Lausanne (EPFL), CH-1015 Lausanne, Switzerland

###### Abstract

Here we report a further investigation on the thermodynamic and
transport properties, and an assessment of theoretical calculations, for
the BiS₂-layered Bi₃O₂S₃ superconductor. The polycrystalline sample is
synthesized with a superconducting transition temperature of
$T_{\rm c}^{\rm onset}=5.75$ K and $T_{\rm c}^{\rm core}=4.03$ K
(≈$T_{\rm c}^{\rm max}$) that drops to 3.3 K by applying a hydrostatic
pressure of 6 kbar. Density-of-states (DOS) calculations give
substantial hybridization between Bi, O, and S, with Bi the largest
component of DOS, which supports the idea that the BiS₂ layer is
relevant for producing electron-phonon coupling. An analysis of
previously published specific heat data for Bi₃O₂S₃ is additionally
suggestive of a strong electron-phonon interaction in the Bi-O-S system.
The analysis of the Seebeck coefficient results strongly suggests that
Bi₃O₂S₃ is a semimetal. In fact, the semimetallic or narrow band gap
behavior may occur in certain other materials in the BiS₂-layered class
of materials, such as Bi₄O₄S₃.

pacs: 74.20.Pq, 74.25.fg + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL REVIEW B
**91**, 104511 (2015)

## I Introduction

Understanding the reasons for superconductivity in Bi-O-S systems is
important, especially since high-temperature superconductivity is seen
in other Bi-based materials, such as Ba_(1 − x)K_(x)BiO₃ and
Bi₂Sr₂Ca₂Cu₃O_(10 + x)[1]. The superconducting members of Bi-O-S systems
are based on BiS₂ layers with large unit cells composed of various
spacer layers. The members include Bi₄O₄S₃ with $T_{\rm c}=4.4$ K,
$H_{\rm c2(0)}\sim 3$ T, and a dominant-electron concentration of
∼2 × 10¹⁹ cm⁻³ at 300 K [2, 3, 4]. The enhanced density of states (DOS)
at the Fermi level from Bi 6p_(x) and 6p_(y), and the strong Fermi
surface nesting of quasi-one-dimensional bands are predicted to play a
role in Cooper pairing [2]. Theoretical tight-binding calculations on a
similar BiS₂-layer-based system of LaOBiS₂ (F doping; $T_{\rm c}=10.6$
K) [5] shows that the dominating bands for electron conduction and
superconductivity are those derived from four Bi 6p − S3 p orbitals that
give nearly half-filled, electron-hole symmetric, quasi-one-dimensional
bands [6] that give nesting of the Fermi surface. Other members of
Bi-O-S systems include Bi₆O₈S₅[7] and Bi₃O₂S₃[8, 9]. Most recently, a
critical temperature at $T_{\rm c}=4.5$ K was discovered in Bi₃O₂S₃[8]
that appeared, based on that work, to be a typical type-II
superconductor with $T_{\rm c}^{\rm onset}=5.8$ K, an upper critical
field of $H_{\rm c2}=4.8$ T, and low electron-dominant carriers of ∼10¹⁹
cm⁻³[9]. This paper focuses on Bi₃O₂S₃ by advancing investigations into
the reasons for superconductivity through theoretical calculations and
bulk thermodynamic and transport property results. A schematic image of
the unit cell is shown in the right inset of Fig. 1(a), depicting layers
of (BiS₂)₂ (rocksalt type), Bi₂O₂ (fluorite type), and S₂. We find that
$T_{\rm c}$ decreases by an application of 6 kbar, similar to
Bi₄O₄S₃[10]. From Seebeck coefficient results and calculations, we find
that Bi₃O₂S₃ is in fact a semimetal and the band overlap is most likely
in the range of 27-41 meV. From a study of previously published specific
heat data for Bi₃O₂S₃, demonstrating low Fermi-level DOS, we also find
evidence of a strong electron-phonon interaction in Bi-O-S systems.

## II Experiment

A polycrystalline sample of Bi₃O₂S₃ was prepared by a conventional solid
state reaction method according to Refs. [8, 9]. The Bi₂O₃ powders and S
pieces were weighed by targeting "Bi₁₂O₁₈S₁₃," fully mixed, ground, and
then pressed into pellets. The pellets were sealed in an evacuated
silica tube and placed in a prewarmed furnace at 430 ^(∘)C. After 4 h,
the sample was quenched in ice water. The sample was removed from the
tube, reground and repressed, and then sealed in another quartz tube.
The tube was placed back in the preheated furnace at 430 ^(∘)C. After 14
h, the sample was quenched down to 0 ^(∘)C with ice water. After another
reginding and pelletizing, the pellets were sealed in an evacuated
silica tube and placed in a preheated furnace at 520 ^(∘)C for 17 h, and
then quenched again. The resultant sample appeared black and dense. The
x-ray diffraction (XRD) pattern was collected by a PANalytical X’Pert
PRO MPD x-ray powder diffractometer with CuKα radiation. The Rietveld
refinement of the XRD patterns was done with the fullprof software
suite, using the reported Wyckoff positions [8] and the I4/mmm space
group. The electrical and thermal transport measurements were performed
in a Quantum Design (QD) physical property measurement system (PPMS),
using a standard four-probe method. Magnetization measurements were
performed in a QD magnetic property measurement system (MPMS). The
application of pressure was performed in an Mcell 10 pressure cell
(easyLab Technologies) inside the MPMS; the applied pressure was
estimated from the $T_{\rm c}$ of the Pb manometer. First-principles
calculations were performed using the linearized augmented plane-wave
code wien2k [11], employing the generalized gradient approximation (GGA)
of Perdew, Burke, and Ernzerhof [12]. $RK_{\rm max}$ was set to 9.0,
where R is the smallest muffin-tin radius and $K_{\rm max}$ the largest
plane-wave wave vector. Muffin-tin radii for all calculations, in units
of the Bohr radius a₀, were as follows: Bi, 2.31; O, 1.89; S, 2.08,
except for the dimerized S, which was taken as 1.8. All internal
coordinates were optimized until forces were less than 2 mRy/bohr, while
lattice parameters were taken from experiment. Here, 1000 or more k
points in the full Brillouin zone were used for all calculations.
Spin-orbit coupling was included for all calculations, except for the
optimization. We also performed Boltzmann transport calculations of the
thermopower using the bolzttrap code [13]. For these calculations as
many as 40 000 k points in the full Brillouin zone were used.

## III Results and discussion

Figure 1(a) shows the XRD pattern for polycrystalline Bi3O2S3, which
looks very similar to that reported in Ref. [8]. Only tiny impurity
amounts of Bi2OS2 [8], Bi2S3, and Bi are present, which have also been
taken into account for a refinement that improved the fitting. The
refined lattice constants are a = 3.9645(5) A and c = 41.3165(4) A.
Impurity phases were estimated using the Hill and Howard method [14],
and their total contents were less than 8

The temperature dependence of resistivity is shown in Fig. 1(b). In zero
field, T_(c)^(onset) = 5.75 K and T_(c)^(zero) = 4.03 K. Upon
application of a 1 T magnetic field it can be seen that the
T_(c)^(onset) shifts to lower temperature and the sample does not reach
zero resistivity down to 2 K. The inset of Fig. 1(b) shows resistivity
up to room temperature. It displays a typical metallic behavior, similar
to that of Bi4O4S3 [2]. The temperature dependence of magnetic
susceptibility is shown in Fig. 1(c). The sharp transition in χ(T)
indicates that the sample is rather homogeneous. The value of T_(c),
defined by the divergence of zero-field-cooled and field-cooled results,
is about 4.1 K. The shielding volume fraction at 1.8 K is ∼93

The band structure calculation of Bi3O2S3 is shown in Fig. 2(a); it
suggests that this material is a semiconductor with a very small band
gap (approximately 25 meV) and substantial

Figure 1: (Color online) (a) Powder x-ray diffraction pattern for
Bi3O2S3. Red circles represent observed data; black and green solid
lines represent the calculated intensity and difference between the
observed and calculated intensity; blue vertical bars indicate the Bragg
reflection positions for Bi3O2S3. * and # indicate the peaks of Bi2S3
and Bi, respectably. The inset shows the schematic image of the crystal
structure of Bi3O2S3. (b) Temperature dependence of resistivity for
Bi3O2S3 measured below 10 K, at 0 and 1 T applied magnetic fields. The
inset is the temperature dependence of resistivity and charge carrier
concentration for Bi3O2S3 up to room temperature at 0 T. (c) Temperature
dependence of magnetic susceptibility for Bi3O2S3 measured below 10 K,
at H = 5 Oe applied magnetic fields. The inset displays the temperature
dependence of magnetic susceptibility for Bi3O2S3 up to room temperature
obtained at 1 T applied magnetic fields. (d) Temperature dependence of
magnetic susceptibility for Bi3O2S3 measured below 4.5 K, with applying
a hydrostatic pressure of 0 kbar (red circle) and 6 kbar (blue
triangle), respectively.

band degeneracy, particularly in the conduction bands, where a second
band minimum occurs less than 50 meV above the primary band minimum,
with all these extrema at or very near the N point. The calculated
density of states for this material is shown in Fig. 2(b). The plot
shows a comparatively heavy band just below the valence band maximum,
and a somewhat lighter band in the conduction band. This band shows
substantial hybridization between the Bi, O, and S. Previous papers have
argued for the importance of the BiS₂ layers in generating
electron-phonon coupling [2], and this hybridization is supportive of
this idea.

One natural interpretation of our experimental data in light of these
plots is that Bi₃O₂S₃ is indeed a narrow band semiconductor, with an
extrinsic n-type doping level of approximately 1.5 × 10¹⁹ cm⁻³, as
suggested by the Hall data within a single-sign conduction model.
However, one immediately finds two problems with this explanation.
First, this inferred carrier concentration is the same as found in the
prior work (see Ref. [9]), and were this simply a semiconductor, such a
coincidence in extrinsic doping levels would seem rather unlikely.
Second, and more compellingly, the thermopower data presented in Fig. 3
shows strong evidence of semimetallic, rather than semiconducting,
behavior. In Fig. 3 we plot the experimental Seebeck data, along with
two theoretical fits to the data. These fits were generated using the
first-principles calculated band structure, with the thermopower
calculated via the Boltzmann transport code bolz/trap[13], using the
constant scattering time approximation, which has shown considerable
success in describing doped semiconductors. Note that the thermopower
was calculated from the transport results as the conductivity-weighted
thermopower [i.e.,
S = (σ_(xx)S_(x) + σ_(yy)S_(y) + σ_(zz)S_(z))/(σ_(xx) + σ_(yy) + σ_(zz))],
which is appropriate for a polycrystalline sample; please see Ref. [15]
for details of this procedure.

The first fit (dashed line) was plotted using the first-principles
calculated band gap of 30 meV for a chemical carrier concentration of
n = 1.2 × 10¹⁹ cm⁻³, comparatively near the value that would be obtained
from the Hall number assuming single-sign conduction (note that these
two need not be exactly equal). This fit shows a low-temperature
thermopower slope S/T (T < 50 K), approximately _ten_ times the measured
value, and then rapidly enters the bipolar regime soon thereafter.
Neither of these behaviors resembles the gently increasing curve in the
experimental data (we suspect this data would show a maximum at T ∼ 350
K). We have also tried fitting the data with a much heavier chemical
doping (n = 1.5 × 10²⁰ cm⁻³, not shown). While one can fit the initial
slope of S(T) in this way, the thermopower magnitude at temperatures
above 50 K continues to increase linearly, reaching magnitudes much
larger than the experimental value. This is not surprising considering
that E_(F)(T = 0) in this case is approximately 150 meV above the
conduction band minimum, and nearly 180 meV above the valence band
maximum, so that bipolar effects are minimal in this temperature range
at this

Figure 3: (Color online) The measured thermopower (diamonds) and
calculated thermopower under two scenarios: dashed line, the
semiconducting band structure; solid line, an assumed semimetallic band
structure with a band overlap of 41 meV. The inset shows the temperature
dependence of the Seebeck coefficient and thermal conductivity up to
room temperature.

Figure 2: (Color online) (a) The calculated band structure of Bi₃O₂S₃,
within the body-centered-tetragonal Brillouin zone. The energy zero is
set to the valence band maximum. Note the very small band
gap—approximately 25 meV—at the N point. (b) The calculated density of
states of Bi₃O₂S₃. The energy 0 is set to the valence band maximum.

doping. The second curve (black solid line) was generated using the
first-principles calculated band structure with a "scissor shift"
employed. In this "scissor shift" the conduction and valence band
structures are taken as unchanged, but the band gap is adjusted. The
plot indicates that a band overlap of 0.003 Ry = 41 meV (i.e., a
−41 meV band gap) produces a good fit to the experimental data. We take
this as strong evidence that Bi₃O₂S₃ is in fact a semimetal, not a
semiconductor. Note that we are also able to fit the data with a
somewhat smaller band overlap of 27 meV, so we can say that the actual
band overlap is most likely in the range of 27-41 meV. This also implies
that the actual carrier concentration likely differs significantly from
the value the Hall number would indicate, if a single-sign conduction
model were assumed.

We note that this apparent overstatement of the band gap in the
electronic structure calculations is unusual, given that the GGA usually
understates band gaps due to a self-interaction error and other issues.
However, it is currently an outstanding electronic structure problem to
compute band gaps sufficiently accurately to accurately predict room
temperature transport properties, and the problem is only exacerbated at
temperatures below room temperature. While progress has been made [16]
in calculating band gaps, one sometimes is simply forced to resort to
so-called "scissor shifts," as implemented here and in Ref. [17] to
attain quantitative agreement with experiment. We do not have a definite
explanation for the band gap overstatement, but note that band gap
understatement is not a necessary consequence of all such
first-principles calculations. For example, in Ref. [18] the band gap of
FeSi is calculated as approximately 0.1 eV while transport measurements
(in this case, resistivity) indicate a gap of approximately 0.05 eV. In
that work it is asserted that FeSi is strongly correlated, and there
have been similar suggestions in the literature [19] regarding possible
correlation effects in the oxybismuth sulfides. We think it possible
that the neglect of correlation effects in our density-functional theory
calculations accounts for the apparent overstatement of the band gap.

With the electronic structure established, let us consider the
superconductivity itself in more detail. Let us now make an approximate
estimate of the strength of the electron-phonon interaction that is
presumed responsible for the superconductivity, using present and
previous data. In Ref. [9] a value of the T-linear specific heat
constant γ = 1.65 mJ/mol K² was reported. On a density-of-states basis
this is 0.7/eV formula unit, or 0.23/eV BiS unit, noting that previous
works [6] have argued the BiS₂ layers to be the relevant component
producing electron-phonon coupling, the presumed pairing source.
Assuming a modified BCS expression T_(c) ∼ ω_(D)exp [−(1 + λ)/λ],
including the Eliashberg mass renormalization, and neglecting the
Coulomb pseudopotential μ^(*), a 5 K T_(c) with the 188 K Debye
temperature estimated in Ref. [9] corresponds to an electron-phonon
coupling constant λ = N₀V of 0.38. This yields a modified
electron-phonon interaction potential V of 1.5 eV per BiS unit. This
rough calculation suggests a particularly strong interaction and one
that could presumably be strengthened significantly via charge doping to
increase N₀, if feasible, leading to larger T_(c).

We note that the same features suggestive of semimetallic behavior in
Bi₃O₂S₃–the increasing thermal conductivity above the Debye temperature
and likely saturation and turning over of the temperature dependent
thermopower–appear to be present in the related material Bi₄O₄S₃[20]. In
this case we cannot easily distinguish between a semimetal and narrow
band gap semiconductor, but note that both cases are strongly at odds
with the band structure calculations for this material published in Ref.
[2], which depict a band edge some 0.6 eV above E_(F), i.e., metallic
behavior. Hence the observance of semimetallic or narrow band gap
behavior may be more common in this class of materials than previously
thought.

## IV Conclusions

In summary, we have synthesized and confirmed the bulk superconductivity
by both resistivity and magnetic susceptibility measurements in the
BiS₂-layer-based superconductor Bi₃O₂S₃. Hall results find the same Hall
number as in previous work, and this, combined with a theoretical
analysis of our Seebeck coefficient data, lead to the conclusion that
Bi₃O₂S₃ is in fact a semimetal with a band overlap in the range of 27-41
meV. An analysis of previous data showing a low Fermi-level density of
states [9] suggests that the electron-phonon interaction in this
material is quite strong and that T_(c) could be increased by
appropriate charge doping.

###### Acknowledgements.

This work was primarily supported by the US Department of Energy, Office
of Science, Basic Energy Sciences, Materials Science and Engineering
Division, and partially by ORNL’s LDRD funding (all theoretical modeling
and calculations). The pressure measurements were funded by the Swiss
National Science Foundation, its Sinergia Network Mott Physics Beyond
the Heisenberg Model, and the European Research Council project
CONQUEST; in addition, Jonathan White is thanked for his assistance.

## References

* [1] R. J. Cava, B. Batlogg, J. J. Krajewski, R. Farrow, L. W. Rupp,
Jr., A. E. White, K. Short, W. F. Peck, and T. Kometani, Nature (London)
**332**, 814 (1988); C. Michel, M. Hervieu, M. M. Borel, A. Grandin, F.
Deslandes, J. Provost, and B. Raveau, Z. Phys. B **68**, 421 (1987). *
[2] Y. Mizuguchi, H. Fujihisa, Y. Gotoh, K. Suzuki, H. Usui, K. Kuroki,
S. Demura, Y. Takano, H. Izawa, and O. Miura, Phys. Rev. B **86**,
220510(R) (2012). * [3] S. K. Singh, A. Kumar, B. Gahtori, S. Kirtan, G.
Sharma, S. Patnaik, and V. P. S. Awana, J. Am. Chem. Soc. **134**, 16504
(2012). * [4] P. Srivastava, Shruti, and S. Patnaik, Supercond. Sci.
Technol. **27**, 055001 (2014). * [5] Y. Mizuguchi, S. Demura, K.
Deguchi, Y. Takano, H. Fujihisa, Y. Gotoh, H. Izawa, and O. Miura, J.
Phys. Soc. Jpn. **81**, 114725 (2012).

* [6] H. Usui, K. Suzuki, and K. Kuroki, Phys. Rev. B **86**, 220501
(2012). * [7] Y. Yu, J. Shao, S. Tan, C. Zhang, and Y. Zhang, J. Phys.
Soc. Jpn. **82**, 034718 (2013). * [8] W. A. Phelan, D. C. Wallace, K.
E. Arpino, J. R. Neilson, K. J. Livi, C. R. Seabourne, A. J. Scott, and
T. M. McQueen, J. Am. Chem. Soc. **135**, 5372 (2013). * [9] J. Shao, Z.
Liu, X. Yao, L. Pi, S. Tan, C. Zhang, and Y. Zhang, Phys. Status Solidi
RRL **8**, 845 (2014). * [10] H. Kotegawa, Y. Tomita, H. Tou, H. Izawa,
Y. Mizaguchi, O. Miura, S. Demura, K. Deguchi, and Y. Takano, J. Phys.
Soc. Jpn. **81**, 103702 (2012). * [11] P. Blaha, K. Schwarz, G. K. H.
Madsen, D. Kvasnicka, and J. Luitz, _WIEN2k, An Augmented Plane Wave +
Local Orbitals Program for Calculating Crystal Properties_ (Karlheinz
Schwarz, Techn. Universitat Wien, Austria, 2001). * [12] J. P. Perdew,
K. Burke, and M. Ernzerhof, Phys. Rev. Lett. **77**, 3865 (1996). * [13]
G. K. H. Madsen, K. Schwarz, P. Blaha, and D. J. Singh, Phys. Rev. B
**68**, 125212 (2003). * [14] R. J. Hill and C. J. Howard, J. Appl.
Crystallogr. **20**, 467 (1987). * [15] X. Chen, D. Parker, and D. J.
Singh, Sci. Rep. **3**, 3168 (2013). * [16] F. Tran and P. Blaha, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **102**, 226401 (2009). * [17] L. Lykke, B. B. Iversen, and
G. K. H. Madsen, Phys. Rev. B **73**, 195121 (2006). * [18] C. Fu, M. P.
C. M. Krijn, and S. Doniach, Phys. Rev. B **49**, 2219 (1994). * [19] Y.
Liang, X. Wu, W. F. Tsai, and J. Hu, Front. Phys. **9**, 194 (2014). *
[20] S. G. Tan, L. J. Li, Y. Liu, P. Tong, B. C. Zhao, W. J. Lu, and Y.
P. Sun, Physica C **483**, 94 (2012).
