# Structural analysis and superconductivity of CeFeAsO1-xHx

Satoru Matsuishi

Taku Hanna

Yoshinori Muraba

Sung Wng Kim

Jung Eun Kim

Masaki Takata

Shin-ich Shamoto

Ronald I. Smith

Hideo Hosono

Materials and Structures Laboratory, Tokyo Institute of Technology,
S2-13, 4259 Nagatsuta-cho, Midori-ku, Yokohama 226-8503, Japan Frontier
Research Center, Tokyo Institute of Technology, 4259 Nagatsuta-cho,
Midori-ku, Yokohama 226-8503, Japan Japan Synchrotron Radiation Research
Institute, 1-1-1 Kouto, Sayo-cho, Sayo-gun, Hyogo 679-5198, Japan

###### Abstract

We performed the neutron powder diffraction (NPD) and synchrotron x-ray
diffraction measurements on CeFeAsO1-x(D,H)_(x) (_x_ = 0.0 - 0.48) as a
representative of 1111-type family of iron-based superconductors
_Ln_FeAsO1-xHx (_Ln_ = lanthanoid). Deuterated and hydrogenated samples
(CeFeAsO1-x,D_(x) and CeFeAsO1-xHx) were synthesized by the solid-state
reaction of a metal oxide, arsenides, and a hydride and a deuteride
source under an applied pressure of 2 GPa. No distinct differences were
found between the structural and superconducting properties of the
hydride and deuteride samples. Rietveld analyses of the NPD patterns
demonstrated that deuterium exclusively substitutes on the oxygen sites
in the 1111-type structures according to the nominal composition. Bulk
superconductivity was observed over a wide x region (0.1 < x < 0.4) and
the superconducting dome had a rather flat shape with a maximum _T_c =
47 K at around x = 0.25. It was concluded from density functional theory
calculations and comparison with the superconducting dome of the
fluorine-substituted system that the charge state of the hydrogen
substituting the oxygen sites was -1. The relationship between the
lattice parameter a and _T_c in our samples prepared from metal hydrides
is almost the same as that reported previously for samples prepared from
cerium hydroxide. These results strongly suggest that H⁻ ions
exclusively occupy the oxygen sites in both samples, regardless of the
hydrogen species in the starting material.

2011 10.1103/PhysRevB.85.014514 2012 10.1103/PhysRevB.85.014514 2012

## I Introduction

Since the discovery of the iron arsenide superconductors
LaFeAsO1-_x_F_x_ (_T_c = 26 K), [1] various types of parent materials
have been reported, and their physical properties have been extensively
studied. [2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9] Typical parent materials are 1111-type
_Ln_FeAsO (_Ln_ = lanthanoid) [1, 10, 11, 12, 13] and 122-type
_A_Fe_Fe2As2 (_Ae_ = alkaline-earth metal) [2, 3, 14] they show
structural and antiferromagnetic transitions with stripe-type ordering
in the iron square-lattice. [15, 16, 17, 18] These transitions are
suppressed by carrier doping via element substitution, and a
superconductivity transition is induced instead. These results imply a
scenario in which the superconductivity is intrinsically related to the
magnetic interaction. The spin-fluctuation mechanism resulting from
Fermi surface (FS) nesting between hole and electron pockets has been
suggested as a plausible model. [19] This model explains well the
suppression of superconductivity in 122-type _A_(Fe1-_x_Co)2/As2 upon
electron doping to the level of filling up hole pockets [2, 20, 21] and
several characteristic observations such as a striking difference
between LaFeAsO and LaFePO. However, in contrast to the iron arsenides,
the recently discovered alkali-metal-ion-intercalated iron selenide
superconductor K_(x)Fe2-_y_Se2, [9] also having an iron square lattice,
shows different behavior; a high _T_c of ∼30 K is retained even in a
highly electron-doped state corresponding to the disappearance of hole
pockets. [22, 23] We therefore need to examine the validity of the FS
nesting model as the major contributor to the superconductivity.
Recently, we reported the synthesis of 1111-type SmFeAsO1-_x_Hx (0 < x <
0.5), using a high-pressure technique, and its superconductivity with a
maximum _T_c of 56 K at x ∼ 0.25. [24] Although the hydrogen position in
SmFeAsO1-_x_Hx could not be determined, this result suggests that the
hydrogen forms a negative anion, i.e., H⁻, at the oxygen site, releasing
an electron to the FeAs layer (O²→H⁻ + e⁻), in the same way as fluorine
does in SmFeAsO1-_x_F_2. [10, 11, 25, 26] By using the solubility limit
of hydrogen (_x_ < 0.5), which is much higher than that of fluorine (_x_
< 0.2), we found that superconductivity is observed over a wide x region
(0.07 < x < 0.4). According to density functional theory (DFT)
calculations on the 1111-type system, [27] hole FS shrink at high
electron-doping levels, i.e., x > ∼0.3, but the observed _T_c dome is
insensitive to electron-doping levels of x = 0.1 - 0.4. These results
imply that the FS nesting model is insufficient for explaining the
superconductivity.

In this paper, use neutron powder diffraction (NPD) and synchrotron
x-ray diffraction (SXRD), with the aid of density functional theory
(DFT) calculations, to we demonstrate that hydrogen exclusively occupies
the oxygen sites and donates an electron to the FeAs layer in
CeFeAsO1-_x_(H,D)_x_, representing _Ln_FeAsO1-_x_Hx.
CeFeAsO1-_x_(H,D)_x_ systems show a wide superconducting dome (0.1 < x <
0.4) with a maximum _T_c of 47 K at x = 0.25. The present results are
compared with those for OH-doped samples. [28]

## II Experimental

CeFeAsO1-_x_D_(x) was synthesized by the solid-state reaction of CeAs,
Fe2As, CeO2, and CeO2 (CeAs + Fe2As + (1 − x) CeO2 + x CeO2
→2CeFeAsO1-_x_D_(x)), using a belt-type high-pressure anvil cell. CeAs
and Fe2As were prepared from their respective metals, and CeD₂ was
synthesized by heating cerium metal in a D₂ atmosphere. All starting
materials and precursors for the synthesis were prepared in a glove box
filled with purified Ar gas (H₂O, O₂<1 ppm). The mixture of starting
materials was placed in a BN capsule with a mixture of Ca(OD)₂ and NaBD₄
as an excess deuterium source and then heated at 1473 K and 2 GPa for 30
min. The hydride analog, CeFeAsO_(1 − x)H_(x), was prepared in an
identical fashion, but using CeH₂, Ca(OH)₂, and NaBH₄.[29]

To determine the framework structure (site positions and occupancies of
Ce, Fe, and As), SXRD data were collected at 300 K from
CeFeAsO_(1 − x)H_(x) (nominal x = 0.0, 0.1, 0.3, 0.4, and 0.5) using the
BL02B2 beamline at SPring-8, Japan The x-ray wavelength was set at
0.049920 nm. Rietveld analyses of the SXRD patterns were performed using
the Rietanf-fp code.[30] In order to determine the deuterium (hydrogen)
distribution in these compounds, time-of-flight (TOF) NPD data collected
from CeFeAsO_(1 − x)D_(x) (nominal x = 0.0, 0.1, 0.3, and 0.4) were
measured using GEM diffractometer at the ISIS pulsed spallation neutron
source, Rutherford Appleton Laboratory, UK.[31] Rietveld analyses of the
TOF-NPD patterns were carried out using the General Structure Analysis
System (GSAS) code.[32]

The amounts of hydrogen incorporated in the resulting samples were
evaluated by thermogravimetry and mass spectroscopy (TG-MS) performed
using a TG-MS (Bruker AXS GmbH model TG-DTA/MS 9610) equipped with a gas
feed port to inject the standard H₂ gas into the sample chamber.[24]
Approximately 20 mg of sample were heated to 1073 K at a heating rate of
20 K/min under a helium gas flow. Hydrogen released from the sample, in
the form of H₂ molecules, was ionized and detected by a quadrupole mass
spectrometer as an ion with a mass-to-charge ratio (m/z) = 2. Elemental
compositions, except hydrogen (Ce:Fe:As:O), were determined using an
electron-probe microanalyzer (EPMA, JEOL, Inc. model JXA-8530F) equipped
with a field-emission-type electron gun and wavelength dispersive x-ray
detectors. The micrometer scale compositions within the main phase were
probed on five to ten focal points, and the results were averaged.

Four-probe dc resistivity (ρ) and magnetic susceptibility (χ) were
measured in the temperature range of 2−300 K using a physical properties
measurement system (Quantum Design, Inc.) with a vibrating magnetometer
attachment.

DFT calculations were performed using the generalized gradient
approximation Perdew-Burke-Ernzerhof functional,[33, 34] and the
projected augmented plane-wave method[35] implemented in the Vienna _ab
initio_ simulation program code.[36] A
$\sqrt{2}a\times\sqrt{2}a\times 2c$ supercell containing eight chemical
formulas was used, and the plane-wave basis-set cutoff was set to 600
eV. Referring to the previous theoretical work by Liu _et al._,[37] the
value of the effective on-site Coulomb interaction $U_{\rm eff}$ (=U-J)
was fixed to be 0.0 eV for Fe and 3.0 eV for Ce, where U is the on-site
Coulomb repulsion and J is the exchange coupling. For Brillouin-zone
integrations to calculate the total energy and density of states (DOS),
8 x 8 x 4 Monkhorst-Pack grids of k points were used. To obtain the
projected DOS (PDOS), the charge density was decomposed over the
atom-centered spherical harmonics with a Wigner-Seitz radius
$r=(3V_{\rm cell}/4\pi\,N)^{1/3}$, where $V_{\rm cell}$ and N are the
unit-cell volume and the number of atoms in a unit cell, respectively.

## III Results and discussion

CeFeAsO_(1 − x)D_(x) and CeFeAsO_(1 − x)H_(x) were synthesized for
nominal x values ($x_{\rm nominal}$) of 0.0−0.5. A few percent of CeAs
and unknown impurity phases segregated for $x_{\rm nominal}=0.0$ and
$x_{\rm nominal}\geq 0.4$, but a single phase was obtained for
$x_{\rm nominal}=0.1\,-\,0.3$. Table 1 summarizes the elemental
compositions ([Ce]:[Fe]:[As]:[O]:[H]), normalized by the molar content
of iron, determined for each sample using EPMA

Figure 1: (Color online) (a) Fitted NPD pattern of CeFeAsO_(0.7)D_(0.3)
at RT and (b) deuterium contents obtained by Rietveld analyses of NPD
patterns and oxygen content obtained by EPMA as a function of nominal
composition x.

and TG-MS. Figure 1(a) shows TOF-NPD patterns ((2θ) = 154.46^(∘)
detector bank) of CeFeAsO_(0.7)D_(0.3) at room temperature (RT) along
with the fitted pattern. All the peaks could be indexed to a tetragonal
ZrCuSiAs-type structure (space group: _P4/nmm_),[38] with the lattice
parameters a = 0.3978 nm and c = 0.8609 nm for CeFeAsO_(0.7)D_(0.3).
Rietveld analysis was performed with a structural model in which
deuterium replaces a fraction of oxygen sites in the 1111-type
structure. The values of the temperature factors ($U_{\rm iso}$) for Ce,
Fe, As, and O were fixed at those in a undoped sample, and $U_{\rm iso}$
of D was fixed at that of oxygen. Good agreement was obtained between
the calculated and observed patterns (reliability factor w R_(p) = 3.26

Table 2 lists the structural parameters of deuterated samples at RT. All
the refinements yield good fits between

Figure 2: (Color online) Structural and superconductivity data. (a)
Variations in lattice parameters (a and c) as a function of x; (b)
atomic positions z ($z_{\rm Ce}$ and $z_{\rm As}$) of
CeFeAsO_(1 − x)H_(x) and CeFeAsO_(1 − x)D_(x) measured by SXRD and NPD;
(c) ρ–T profile of CeFeAsO_(1 − x)H_(x) (solid line) and
CeFeAsO_(1 − x)D_(x) (open circles) in underdoped (left, x = 0.00 –
0.10) and overdoped states (right, x = 0.22 – 0.48) systems; and (d)
shielding volume fractions of CeFeASO_(1 − x)H_(x) and
CeFeAsO_(1 − x)D_(x) estimated from M–H curve at 2 K and 10 Oe.

observed and calculated profiles, with reliability factors of S< 1.57,
wR_(p)< 3.94

Figure 2(c) shows the temperature dependence of the resistivity in
deuterated and hydrogenated samples. A sudden drop in resistivity as a
result of superconductivity is observed from x = 0.1 to 0.4. Figure 2(d)
shows the shielding volume fraction (SVF) evaluated from the slope of
the magnetization vs magnetic field (M−H) curve. An SVF larger than 20

Figure 3 shows the phase diagrams of CeFeAsO_(1 − x)H_(x) and
CeFeAsO_(1 − x)D_(x) along with that of the fluorine-substituted system
CeFeAsO_(1 − x)F_(x). [18] Here, $T_{\rm c}$ is the onset
superconducting transition temperature obtained from the χ−T curve, and
$T_{\rm anom}$ denotes a breaking point in the ρ−T curve. A wide
$T_{\rm c}$ dome ranging from x = 0.1 to 0.4 and the disappearance of
superconductivity at x> 0.4 were observed for the hydrogen-substituted
1111 system; these were not observed in the fluorine-substituted system
because of small solubility of fluorine (x< 0.2). The maximum
$T_{\rm c}$, 47 K, is higher than that (41 K) in the
fluorine-substituted system. [12] According to our results on CaFeAsH,
[24] the hydrogens in the oxygen sites exist as H⁻ ions.

To investigate the effects of hydrogen substitution, we performed DFT
calculations on CeFeAsO, CeFeAsO_(0.75)F_(0.25), and
CeFeAsO_(0.75)H_(0.25) systems. Figure 4(a) shows the supercell used for
the DFT calculations; it contains eight anion sites in the blocking
layer. For CeFeAsO_(0.75)F_(0.25) and CeFeAsO_(0.75)H_(0.25), 1/4 of the
oxygen sites were replaced by fluorine or hydrogen. The lattice
parameters and atomic positions were fully relaxed by a structural
optimization procedure minimizing the total energy and force (see
supplemental material [45]). Although a noncollinear spin configuration
was suggested for CeFeAsO by previous NPD and DFT studies, [18, 37] a
collinear configuration was assumed in our calculation to decrease the
calculation costs. As a result of energy optimization, an orthorhombic
antiferromagnetic ground state was obtained for CeFeAsO, with
stripe-type ordering in the Fe lattice and checkerboard-type ordering in
the Ce lattice [see Fig. 4(a)]. The values of the local moments for Fe
and Ce (1.9 and 0.9 $\mu_{\rm B}$) agree well with those calculated in a
previous theoretical study. [37] Contrary to the experimental results,
magnetic ordering still remained in CeFeAsO_(0.75)F_(0.25) and
CeFeAsO_(0.75)H_(0.25); this reveals the limitations of DFT, which is
inadequate for reproducing low-energy phenomena

Figure 4: (Color online) Electronic structures: (a) structural model for
DFT calculations; “+” and “—” on the Ce and Fe atoms indicate the signs
of the spin magnetic moment. (b) Total DOS and atomic PDOS of CeFeAsO,
CeFeAsO_(0.75)F_(0.25), and CeFeAsO_(0.75)H_(0.25), obtained by DFT
calculations. The origin was set at the Fermi level.

in the Fe-arsenide system. However, this calculation result is still
effective for discussing the bonding states. Figure 4(b) compares the
total and projected DOS per formula unit (f.u.) for
CeFeAsO_(1 − x)F_(x)O_(0.75)F_(0.25), and CeFeAsO_(0.75)H_(0.25). In
CeFeAsO_(0.75)F_(0.25), the fluorine forms a narrow isolated 2p band
located at −8 eV from the Fermi level ($E_{\rm f}$). In contrast, the
hydrogen in CeFeAsO_(0.75)H_(0.25) forms a broad 1s band located at −3
to −6 eV, which is close to that of the oxygen 2p band, demonstrating
that the hydrogen 1s and oxygen 2p orbitals energetically overlap and
form a unified valence band. The integrated PDOS for the hydrogen 1s
band is 0.5 electrons per f.u., corresponding to the H⁻ state (1s²).
Furthermore, both fluorine and hydrogen substitutions push up the
$E_{\rm F}$ by 0.3 eV, corresponding to a doping of 0.25 electrons per
Fe. We therefore now conclude that the hydrogen substituting the oxygen
site forms a negative anion, i.e., H⁻, donating an electron to the FeAs
layer, the same as F⁻ does. This is consistent with a close overlap of
the $T_{\rm c}$ domes of hydrogen-substituted and fluorine-substituted
systems.

Here, we would like to point out a close similarity between the phase
diagrams of our hydride-doped samples LnFeAsO_(1 − x)(H,D)_(x), where Ln
= Ce and Sm, and those of the hydroxyl-doped samples
LnFeAsO_(1 − y)(OH)_(x) reported in Ref. [46]. The OH-doped samples were
prepared using the hydroxides Sm(OH)₃ and Ce(OH)₃ as starting materials.
Unfortunately, neither the chemical states nor the crystallographic
positions have been reported, as far as we know. Figure 5 shows the
relation between $T_{\rm c}$ and the a-axis dimension for both series of
samples. It is evident that all the data for both series fall on a
common curve for the Sm and Ce systems. This agreement suggests that
hydrogen species occupy the oxygen sites of LnFeAsO_(1 − x)H_(x) as H⁻
ions, regardless of the starting materials. Finally, we compare the
present a-$T_{\rm c}$ curve with that for LnFeAsO_(1 − x)F_(x)
synthesized at an ambient-pressure (see Fig. 5).[12, 18, 7, 8, 9, 7, 51]
Depending on the pressure condition of synthesis, the value of a is
significantly different even for nonsubstituted samples.[52] However,
the line shape of a-$T_{\rm c}$ curve for LnFeAsO_(1 − x)F_(x) is
similar to that of LnFeAsO_(1 − x)H_(x). This result implies extent of
band filling is a primary factor for $T_{\rm c}$. Because the ionic
radius of H⁻ is similar to that of O²⁻ and the solubility limit of H⁻ in
the 1111 system is rather larger than F⁻, the use of H⁻ ions would be an
effective electron-doping method.

## IV Summary

We succeeded in synthesizing CeFeAsO_(1 − x)H_(x) and
CeFeAsO_(1 − x)D_(x) in the range up to x = 0.48 under a pressure of 2
GPa. Diffraction studies revealed that hydrogen species exclusively
substitute the oxygen sites in the CeO layer, and DFT calculations
indicated that the charge state of the hydrogen or deuterium is −1. No
isotopic effect was noted in the structural and superconducting
properties of the substituted samples. The x-T phase diagram shows a
wide superconducting region (0.1 < x < 0.4) with a maximum $T_{\rm c}$
of 47 K at x = 0.25. The value of $T_{\rm c}$ remained almost constant
in the range 0.1 < x < 0.4, and this feature was similar to that for
SmFeAsO_(1 − x)H_(x), except for the maximum $T_{\rm c}$ value. Although
the solubility limit (x ∼ 0.48) of H⁻ is rather different from that
(0.12) of F⁻, the phase diagram of CeFeAsO_(1 − x)H_(x) agreed with that
of CeFeAsO_(1 − x)F_(x) in the range x < 0.12. This result substantiates
the idea that hydrogen occurs as negative anions, i.e., H⁻, supplying
electrons to the FeAs layer, the same as fluorine does. It turned out
from these results that $T_{\rm c}$ of the 1111-type system is
insensitive to electron doping. The close agreement in the relation
between $T_{\rm c}$ and the unit cell axes dimensions among the samples
prepared from LnH₂ and Ln(OH)₃ strongly suggests that the hydrogens in
1111 iron arsenide exclusively occupy the oxygen sites as H⁻ ions,
irrespective of the hydrogen species (H⁻ or OH⁻) in the starting
materials.

## Acknowledgment

This research is funded by the Japan Society for the Promotion of
Science (JSPS) through the FIRST program, initiated by the Council for
Science and Technology Policy (CSTP). GEM Xpress Access neutron beamtime
was provided by the UK Science and Technology Facilities Council (STFC).
The synchrotron radiation experiments were performed at the BL02B2 of
SPring-8 with the approval of the Japan Synchrotron Radiation Research
Institute (JASRI) (proposal NO. 2011A1142).

## References

* [1] Y. Kamihara, T. Watanabe, M. Hirano, and H. Hosono, J. Am. Chem.
Soc. **130**, 3296 (2008). * [2] M. Rotter, M. Tegel, and D. Johrendt,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **101**, 107006 (2008). * [3] C. Gen-Fu, L. Zheng, L.
Gang, H. Wan-Zheng, D. Jing, Z. Jun, Z. Xiao-Dong, Z. Ping, W. Nan-Lin,
and L. Jian-Lin, Chin. Phys. Lett. **25**, 3403 (2008). * [4] G. Wu, H.
Chen, T. Wu, Y. L. Xie, Y. J. Yan, R. H. Liu, X. F. Wang, J. J. Ying,
and X. H. Chen, J. Phys. Condens. Matter **20**, 422201 (2008). * [5] *
[5] F.-C. Hsu, J.-Y. Luo, K.-W. Yeh, T.-K. Chen, T.-W. Huang, P. M. Wu,
Y.-C. Lee, Y.-L. Huang, Y.-Y. Chu, D.-C. Yan, and M.-K. Wu, Proc. Natl.
Acad. Sci. USA **105**, 14262 (2008). * [6] H. Ogino, Y. Matsumura, Y.
Katsura, K. Ushiyama, S. Horii, K. Kishio, and J. Shimoyama, Supercon.
Sci. Technol. **22**, 075008 (2009). * [7] X. Zhu, F. Han, G. Mu, P.
Cheng, B. Shen, B. Zeng, and H.-H. Wen, Phys. Rev. B **79**, 220512(R)
(2009). * [8] G. F. Chen, T.-L. Xia, H. X. Yang, J. Q. Li, P. Zheng, J.
L. Luo, and N. L. Wang, Supercon. Sci. Technol. **22**, 072001 (2009). *
[9] J. Guo, S. Jin, G. Wang, S. Wang, K. Zhu, T. Zhou, M. He, and X.
Chen, Phys. Rev. B **82**, 180520 (2010). * [10] X. H. Chen, T. Wu, G.
Wu, R. H. Liu, H. Chen, and D. F. Fang, Nature **453**, 761 (2008). *
[11] A. Ren, W. Lu, J. Yang, W. Yi, X.-L. Shen, Z.-C. Li, G.-C. Che,
X.-L. Dong, L.-L. Sun, F. Zhou, and Z-X. Zhao, Chin. Phys. Lett. **25**,
2215 (2008). * [12] G. F. Chen, Z. Li, D. Wu, G. Li, W. Z. Hu, J. Dong,
P. Zheng, J. L. Luo, and N. L. Wang, Phys. Rev. Lett. **100**, 247002
(2008). * [13] Z.-A. Ren, J. Yang, W. Lu, W. Yi, X.-L. Shen, Z.-C. Li,
G.-C. Che, X.-L. Dong, L.-L. Sun, F. Zhou, and Z.-X. Zhao, Europhys.
Lett. **82**, 57002 (2008). * [14] K. Sasmal, B. Lv, B. Lorenz, A. M.
Guloy, F. Chen, Y.-Y. Xue, and C.-W. Chu, Phys. Rev. Lett. **101**,
107007 (2008). * [15] Q. Huang, Y. Qiu, W. Bao, M. A. Green, J. W. Lynn,
Y. C. Gasparovic, T. Wu, G. Wu, and X. H. Chen, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**101**, 257003 (2008). * [16] C. H. Lee, K. Kihou, H. Kawano-Furukawa,
T. Saito, A. Iyo, H. Eisaki, H. Fukazawa, Y. Kohori, K. Suzuki, H. Usui,
K. Kuroki, and K. Yamada, Phys. Rev. Lett. **106**, 067003 (2011). *
[17] C. de la Cruz, Q. Huang, J. W. Lynn, J. Li, W. R. II, J. L.
Zarestky, H. A. Mook, G. F. Chen, J. L. Luo, N. L. Wang, and P. Dai,
Nature **453**, 899 (2008). * [18] J. Zhao, Q. Huang, C. de la Cruz, S.
Li, J. W. Lynn, Y. Chen, M. A. Green, G. F. Chen, G. Li, Z. Li, J. L.
Luo, N. L. Wang, and P. Dai, Nat. Mater. **7**, 953 (2008). * [19] I. I.
Mazin, D. J. Singh, M. D. Johannes, and M. H. Du, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**101**, 057003 (2008). * [20] M. Rotter, M. Pangerl, M. Tegel, and D.
Johrendt, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. Engl. **47**, 7949 (2008). * [21] Y.
Sekiba, T. Sato, K. Nakayama, K. Terashima, P. Richard, J. H. Bowen, H.
Ding, Y.-M. Xu, L. J. Li, G. H. Cao, Z.-A. Xu, and T. Takahashi, New J.
Phys. **11**, 025020 (2009). * [22] Y. Zhang, L. X. Yang, M. Xu, Z. R.
Ye, F. Chen, C. He, H. C. Xu, J. Jiang, B. P. Xie, J. J. Ying, X. F.
Wang, X. H. Chen, J. P. Hu, M. Matsunami, S. Kimura, and D. L. Feng,
Nat. Mater. **10**, 273 (2011). * [23] T. Sato, K. Nakayama, Y. Sekiba,
P. Richard, Y. M. Xu, S. Souma, T. Takahashi, G. F. Chen, J. L. Luo, N.
L. Wang, and H. Ding, Phys. Rev. Lett. **103**, 047002 (2009). * [24] T.
Hanna, Y. Muraba, S. Matsuishi, N. Igawa, K. Kodama, S. I. Shamoto, and
H. Hosono, Phys. Rev. B **84**, 024521 (2011). * [25] A. Kohler and G.
Behr, J. Supercond. Nov. Magn. **22**, 565 (2009). * [26] T. Tohei, T.
Mizoguchi, H. Hiramatsu, Y. Kamihara, H. Hosono, and Y. Ikuhara, Appl.
Phys. Lett. **95**, 193107 (2009). * [27] K. Kuroki, H. Usui, S. Onari,
R. Arita, and H. Aoki, Phys. Rev. B **79**, 224511 (2009). * [28] K.
Miyazawa, S. Ishida, K. Kihou, P. M. Shirage, M. Nakajima, C. H. Lee, H.
Kito, Y. Tomioka, T. Ito, H. Eisaki, H. Yamashita, H. Mukuda, K. Tokiwa,
S. Uchida, and A. Iyo, Appl. Phys. Lett. **96**, 072514 (2010). * [29]
M. Iwamoto and Y. Fukai, Mater. Trans. JIM **40**, 606 (1999). * [30] F.
Izumi and K. Momma, Solid State Phenom. **130**, 15 (2007). * [31] A. C.
Alex, Nucl. Instrum. Methods **551**, 88 (2005). * [32] A. C. Larson and
R. B. Von Dreele, _General Structure Analysis System (GSAS) Los Alamos
National Laboratory Report LAUR 86-748_ (Los Alamos National Laboratory,
Los Alamos, New Mexico, 2004). * [33] J. P. Perdew, K. Burke, and M.
Ernzerhof, Phys. Rev. Lett. **77**, 3865 (1996). * [34] J. P. Perdew, K.
Burke, and M. Ernzerhof, Phys. Rev. Lett. **78**, 1396 (1997). * [35] P.
E. Blochl, Phys. Rev. B **50**, 17953 (1994). * [36] G. Kresse and J.
Furthmuller, Phys. Rev. B **54**, 11169 (1996). * [37] J. Liu, B. Luo,
Z. Y. Sun, H. Fu, and K. Yao, Phys. Rev. B **84**, 115123 (2011). * [38]
R. Potten and D. Johrendt, Z. Naturforsch. **63b**, 1135 (2008). * [39]
V. F. Sears, Neutron News **3**, 26 (1992). * [40] H. Nakamura and M.
Machida, Physica C **471**, 662 (2011). * [41] Z.-A. Ren, G.-C. Che,
X.-L. Dong, J. Yang, W. Lu, W. Yi, X.-L. Shen, Z.-C. Li, L.-L. Sun, F.
Zhou, and Z.-X. Zhao, Europhys. Lett. **83**, 17002 (2008). * [42] H.
Kito, H. Eisaki, and A. Iyo, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **77**, 063707 (2008). *
[43] K. Miyazawa, K. Kihou, P. M. Shirage, C.-H. Lee, H. Kito, H.
Eisaki, and A. Iyo, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **78**, 034712 (2009). * [44] See
Supplemental Material at
http://link.aps.org/supplemental/10.1103/PhysRevB.85.014514 for
crystallographic information files (CIF) files containing
crystallographic information of CeFeAsO_(1 − x)(H,D)_(x) crystals
obtained by Rietveld refinements of XRD and NPD patterns. * [45] See
Supplemental Material at
http://link.aps.org/supplemental/10.1103/PhysRevB.85.014514 for
DFT-optimized crystal structures. * [46] P. M. Shirage, K. Miyazawa, K.
Kihou, H. Kito, Y. Yoshida, Y. Tanaka, H. Eisaki, and A. Iyo, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **105**, 037004 (2010). * [47] Y. Kamihara, T. Nomura, M. Hirano,
J. Eun Kim, K. Kato, M. Takata, Y. Kobayashi, S. Kitao, S.
Higashitaniguchi, Y. Yoda, M. Seto, and H. Hosono, New J. Phys. **12**,
033005 (2010). * [48] A. Martinelli, M. Ferretti, P. Manfrinetti, A.
Palenzona, M. Tropeano, M. R. Cimberle, C. Ferdeghini, R. Valle, C.
Bernini, M. Putti, and A. S. Siri, Supercon. Sci. and Technol. **21**,
095017 (2008). * [49] N. D. Zhigadlo, S. Katrych, Z. Bukowski, S.
Weyeneth, R. Puzniak, and J. Karpinski, J. Phys. Condens. Matter **20**,
342202 (2008) * [50] L. Sun, X. Dai, C. Zhang, W. Yi, G. Chen, N. Wang,
L. Zheng, Z. Jiang, X. Wei, Y. Huang, J. Yang, Z. Ren, W. Lu, X. Dong,
G. Che, Q. Wu, H. Ding, J. Liu, T. Hu, and Z. Zhao, Europhys. Lett.
**91**, 57008 (2010). * [51] F. Bondino, E. Magnano, C. H. Booth, F.
Offi, G. Panaccione, M. Malvestuto, G. Paolicelli, L. Simonelli, F.
Parmigiani, M. A. McGuire, A. S. Sefat, B. C. Sales, R. Jin, P.
Vilmercati, D. Mandrus, D. J. Singh, and N. Mannella, Phys. Rev. B
**82**, 014529 (2010). * [52] K. Kodama, M. Ishikado, F. Esaka, A. Iyo,
H. Eisaki, and Shin-ichi Shamoto, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **80**, 034601
(2011).
