In-plane and out-of-plane thermal conductivity of a large single crystal
of YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − x)

M. Matsukawa, T. Mizukoshi, and K. Noto

Faculty of Engineering, Iwate University, 4-3-5 Ueda, Morioka 020, Japan

Y. Shiohara

Superconductivity Research Laboratory, ISTEC, 1-10-13, Shinonome,
Koto-ku, Tokyo 135, Japan

11 December 1995

###### Abstract

The in-plane and out-of-plane thermal conductivity, κ_(ab) and κ_(c) ,
of a large single crystal of twinned YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − x) has been studied
as a function of temperature for several annealing conditions. The
present result strongly supports ascribing an observed peak in κ_(ab)
below T_(c) to an electron contribution. The superconducting enhancement
of κ_(ab) becomes rather small and the position of the peak value
gradually shifts to higher temperatures with an increase of annealing
time. This behavior is not well explained by the Kadanoff-Martin
expression on the assumption of Matthiesen’s rule but probably implies
that the screening effect due to charge carrier doping yields a
suppression of strong electron-electron interaction in the normal state.

Recently, a number of studies on the thermal conductivity κ of
high-T_(c) oxide materials have been reported. [1, 2, 3, 4] A common
feature in their studies is that high-T_(c) oxide superconductors,
except for the 2-1-4 system such as La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄ and
Nd_(2 − x)Ce_(x)CuO₄ crystals show an anomaly in the thermal
conductivity associated with the superconducting transition. An origin
of such an anomaly in κ is not made clear yet but two scenarios have
been presented to interpret the observed anomaly. The measured thermal
conductivity is separated into phonon and electron components. One
scenario attributes the origin of the anomaly to a phonon contribution,
while in an alternative scenario the observed anomaly is ascribed to an
electron contribution. [5, 6, 7, 8]

In this paper, the in-plane and out-of-plane thermal conductivity,
κ_(ab) and κ_(c) , of a large single crystal of twinned YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − x)
(YBCO) has been studied as a function of temperature for several
annealing conditions. A measured single crystal was prepared by a
modified Czochralski method called the solute rich liquid crystal
pulling method (the SRL-CP method). The details of the SRL-CP method are
reported in Ref. [9]. Sample dimensions are typically 4.5×3.1 mm² in the
ab plane and 1.7 mm along the c axis. The largest single crystal was
used for the thermal conductivity measurement as far as we know. The
x-ray Laue patterns indicated a very high-quality crystal. The as-grown
sample was annealed in oxygen flow at 520 degC for three days, one week,
and two weeks (sample Nos. 1, 2, and 3). For each annealing condition,
the thermal and electrical conductivity measurements were performed on
the same crystal. The thermal conductivity measurement was made from 10
up to 150 K with a steady-state heat-flow method using a fully automated
measurement system with a helium refrigerator. [10] The heat flow is in
the ab plane or along the c axis, and a temperature gradient of ∼1 K/cm
is monitored in a steady state by a differential Au+0.07 at.

The in-plane thermal conductivity κ_(ab) of a large single crystal of
twinned YBCO is shown in Fig. 1 as a function of temperature from 10 to
150 K for several annealing conditions. The κ_(ab) value of an annealed
sample shows a clear enhancement just below T_(c) with decreasing
temperature and forms a rapid peak at ∼40 K, while the κ_(ab) value of
an as-grown sample exhibits no pronounced anomaly below T_(c) . The
normal-state κ_(ab) value for all samples shows almost the same
temperature dependence and weakly decreases with increasing temperature,
which is probably associated with phonon-phonon Umklapp scattering. The
observed peak value κ_(ab)${}^{\rm max}$ is enhanced and its position
gradually shifts to higher temperatures with increasing annealing time.
Furthermore, the value of κ_(ab)${}^{\rm max}$/κ_(ab) (100 K) becomes
rather small and the anomaly in κ_(ab) associated with the
superconducting transition is weakly depressed for long-time annealing.
[11] Of course, for short-time annealing, the value of
κ_(ab)${}^{\rm max}$/κ_(ab) (100 K) for a single-crystal YBCO is
enchanced and the peak value position shifts to lower temperatures as
reported in Ref. [11]. Figure 2 shows the out-of-plane thermal
conductivity κ_(c) of a large single crystal of YBCO as a function of

Figure 1: In-plane thermal conductivity κ_(ab) of a large single crystal
of twinned YBCO plotted as a function of temperature for several
annealing conditions.

temperature from 10 to 150 K for several annealing conditions. The κ_(c)
value for all samples increases gradually from 150 K with decreasing
temperature and shows no remarkable anomaly below T_(c). The maximum
value of κ_(c) is weakly enhanced and its position shifts to lower
temperatures with increase of annealing time. Such behavior is due to
the decrease of phonon scattering by point-defects because the annealing
process decreases the oxygen deficiency. The measured value of κ_(c) is
comparable with the result of a small single crystal of YBCO obtained by
Hagen _et al._2 A negative curvature in κ_(c)(T) originates in
phonon-phonon Umklapp scattering, like that in κ_(ab) above T_(c). The
in-plane and out-of-plane resistivity of ρ_(ab) and ρ_(c) of a large
single crystal of YBCO is shown in Fig. 3 as a function of temperature
from 10 to 300 K for several annealing conditions. The temperature
dependence of ρ_(ab) for the annealed samples shows a metallic behavior
down to the onset of T_(c) and the value of $T_{c,\,{\rm zero}}$ is
determined to be 92.7 K from the resistivity data except for the
as-grown sample. The value of $T_{c,\,{\rm zero}}$ remains constant, but
the residual resistivity at 0 K, ρ_(ab)(0) obtained from the _T_-linear
extrapolation of ρ_(ab) reaches a minus value for a two week annealed
sample. On the other hand, the temperature dependence of ρ_(c) exhibits
a semiconducting behavior and the value of ρ_(c)(T) and
$T_{c,\,{\rm zero}}$ are independent of the annealing time.

The measured thermal conductivity is separated into phonon and electron
contributions $\kappa_{\rm ph}$ and $\kappa_{\rm e}$. The electronic
thermal conductivity in the normal state $\kappa^{\prime\prime}_{\rm e}$
is estimated from the electrical resistivity data using the
Wiedemann-Franz law (WF law).[12] The estimated value of
$\kappa^{\prime\prime}_{ab,\rm e}/\kappa_{ab}$ for annealed samples
ranges from 31.5 to 32.7

Next, the electronic thermal conductivity in the superconducting and
normal states for both annealed samples Nos. 1 and 3 is estimated from
the κ_(ab) data of the as-grown sample. The $\kappa_{ab,\rm ph}$ value
of annealed samples No. 3 is obtained from the κ_(ab) data of the
as-grown sample by a small correction. The κ_(c) value of sample No. 3
is larger than that of sample No. 1 by a factor of about 1.12 because
phonon scattering by point defect is decreased by oxygen annealing. This
variation is probably reflected not only in the κ_(c) value but also in
a phonon component of κ_(ab). Thus, the $\kappa_{ab,\rm ph}$ value of
annealed samples No. 3 is scaled by a factor of about 1.12 to the
$\kappa_{ab,\rm ph}$ value of annealed samples No. 1 (≈κ_(ab) of the
as-grown sample). As a result of a small modification, the temperature
dependence of $\kappa_{ab,\rm e}$ for annealed samples Nos. 1 and 3 is
shown in Fig. 4. In comparison, the $\kappa^{\prime\prime}_{ab,\rm e}$
value in the normal state estimated from the WR law is also plotted.

We discuss the superconducting-state electronic thermal conductivity
$\kappa_{ab,\rm e}$ of a single-crystal YBCO on the basis of a
phenomenological model proposed by Yu _et al.[7]_ The value of κ_(e)^(′)
is calculated in terms of the Kadanoff-Martin (KM) expression,

Figure 3: In-plane and out-of-plane resistivity, ρ_(ab) and ρ_(c), of a
large single crystal of YBCO as a function of temperature from 10 to 300
K for several annealing conditions. The inset shows the temperature
dependence of ρ_(ab) for the as-grown sample.

Figure 2: Out-of-plane thermal conductivity κ_(c) of a large single
crystal of twinned YBCO plotted as a function of temperature for several
annealing conditions.

$$\tilde{\kappa}_{e}^{\prime}=\int_{0}^{2\pi}\frac{d\phi}{2\pi}\frac{3}{2\,\pi^{2}}\,t \int_{0}^{\infty}\,d\varepsilon^{2}\,\,\,{\rm sech}^{2}(E/2)\,\frac{1+a}{e/E+at^{ n}}$$

with

$$E=\sqrt{\varepsilon^{2}+\Delta^{2}},\quad t=\frac{T}{T_{c}}$$

and

$$\Delta(t,\phi)=\chi\Delta_{\rm BCS}(t)\,\psi_{d}(\phi),$$
(1)

where κ̃_(e)^(′) are normalized by the value of the electronic thermal
conductivity at T_(c).[14] The variables of ε and Δ(T) normalized by kT
denote the quasiparticle energy measured from Fermi-level and the
superconducting energy gap according to the Bardeen, Cooper, and
Schrieffer (BCS) theory, respectively. In the integrand of Eq. (1), the
parameter of a represents the ratio of a power-law scattering rate to
the residual scattering rate, which roughly corresponds to the value of
the residual resistivity ratio (RRR). In the calculation of the s-wave
and d-wave pairing-states, the wave functions are taken as ψ_(s) = 1 and
$\psi_{d}\!=\!\sqrt{2}\,\cos(2\phi)$, respectively, where ϕ is the
azimuthal angle of wave number k in the ab plane.[15] The value of χ is
a scaling parameter, the ratio of the superconducting gap to the value
of the BCS gap, i.e., $\chi\!=\!\Delta(0)/\Delta_{\rm BCS}(0)$. In the
normal state, the power-law value in the quasiparticle scattering rate
is taken as n = 1 because in a high-T_(c) superconductor such as the
YBCO system, the T-linear dependence of the electrical resistivity gives
the quasiparticle scattering rate proportional to T on the assumption of
the WF law. Here, the origin of the T-linear dependence of the
quasiparticle scattering rate in the normal state is considered to be
strong electron-electron interaction in the CuO₂ plane. On the other
hand, the quasiparticle scattering rate is strongly suppressed in the
superconducting state since the strong electron-electron interaction in
the normal state is rapidly reduced due to the formation of the
superconducting gap in the excitation spectrum in the electron system.
If the effect of a rapid suppression in the quasiparticle scattering
rate becomes very predominant over the decrease of the quasiparticle
number, then the temperature dependence of κ_(e) shows a peak below
T_(c) as pointed out by Yu _et al.[7]_

A best fitted curve to κ^(′)_(ab, e) of sample No. 1 is obtained in the
d-wave pairing state as shown in Fig. 4, where n = 4, a = 50, and
χ = 0.7. The temperature dependence of κ_(e) at low temperatures is
well-described not by the s-wave pairing state with an isotropic
superconducting gap but by the d-wave pairing state with an anisotropic
one. However, within this calculation, it remains possible that the
s-wave pairing state with anisotropic gap structure exists. The
power-law value is the same one as obtained for a single crystal of
untwinned YBCO. The fitted value of a is five times as large as the RRR
value of 9, estimated from the T-linear extrapolation of the resistivity
data to 0 K. The resistivity of annealed sample No. 3 shows the super
T-linear dependence and then the residual resistivity ρ_(ab)(0) takes a
negative value. However, it should be noted that the value of RRR (≈the
parameter of a) never takes a negative value for the conventional metals
and alloys. Thus, on the assumption of Matthiessen’s rule in the KM
expression it is not possible to analyze the temperature dependence of
κ^(′)_(ab, e) of sample No. 3. The position of peak value
$\kappa^{\rm max}{}_{ab,e}$ shifts to higher temperature and the value
of $\kappa^{\rm max}{}_{ab,e}/\kappa_{ab,e}$ (100 K) decreases from 4.1
(sample No. 1) to 2.9 (sample No. 3) when annealing time increases. Heat
treatment for a long time yields a decrease of quasiparticle scattering
by the impurity so that it is expected that the position of
$\kappa^{\rm max}{}_{ab,e}$ would shift to lower temperature and the
value of $\kappa^{\rm max}{}_{ab,e}/\kappa_{ab,e}$ (100 K) increases.
However, the present experimental result conflicts with such an
expectation. This fact means that Matthiessen’s rule breaks down not
only in electrical conductivity but also thermal conductivity for
high-T_(c) materials. Of course, it should be noted that this change due
to oxygen annealing does not originate in a variation on the phonon
component of κ_(ab) because the peak value of κ_(c) shifts to low
temperatures with increasing annealing time. The cause of this variation
is explained as follows. An observed enhancement in κ_(ab) below T_(c)
is caused by the freezing out of strong electron-electron interaction in
the normal state due to formation of the superconducting energy gap
within the scattering spectrum of electron system. In this case, the
strength of electron-electron interaction is reflected to such
enhancement, in other words, the value of
$\kappa^{\rm max}{}_{ab,e}/\kappa_{ab,e}$ (100 K). A smaller value of
$\kappa^{\rm max}{}_{ab,e}/\kappa_{ab,e}$ (100 K) means qualitatively a
suppression of electron-electron interaction if the strength of electron
scattering by impurities is invariant. Thus, it is supposed that strong
electron-electron interaction becomes suppressed because of the
screening effect due to carrier doping in oxygen anneal. In a previous
paper, it has been reported that an annealing time of more than five
days at 500 ^(∘)C is needed to obtain an almost homogeneous oxygen
distribution within a single crystal of YBCO with a size of 1 mm grown
by the SRL-CP method.[16] Taking account of the size of our sample and
the fact that the oxygen diffusion along the c axis of the sample is
negligible with that in the ab plane, an annealing time of more than 20
days is needed for obtaining a homogeneous carrier concentration.
Furthermore, the T_(c) value observed in resistivity is determined from
a small volume fraction of superconductivity and gives no information
about oxygen inhomogeneity in a large single crystal. Accordingly, it is
believed that a change of carrier concentration possibly

Figure 4: Temperature dependence of κ_(ab, e) for the annealed samples
Nos. 1 and 3. For comparison, the κ^(′)_(ab, e) value in the normal
state estimated by the WF law is also plotted. A dot-dashed line shows a
best fitted curve using the Kadanoff-Martin expression.

occurs and carrier concentration is not saturated for an annealing time
up to two weeks, although the T_(c, zero) value is not changed.

In summary, the in-plane and out-of-plane thermal conductivity, κ_(ab)
and κ_(c) , of a large single crystal of twinned YBCO has been studied
as a function of temperature for several annealing conditions. The
present result strongly supports a picture in which the observed peak in
κ_(ab) below T_(c) is ascribed to the electron contribution. The
superconducting enhancement of κ_(ab) becomes rather small and the
position of the peak value gradually shifts to higher temperatures with
an increase of the annealing time. This behavior is not well explained
by the KM expression on the assumption of Matthiessen’s rule but implies
that the screening effect due to charge carrier doping yields a
suppression of strong electron-electron interaction in the normal state.

We are grateful to Professor N. Kobayashi at Institute for Materials
Research, Tohoku University and Professor K. Yoshida at the Institute of
Atomic Energy, Kyoto University for their valuable discussions. This
work was partially supported by NEDO for the research and development of
Industrial Science and Technology Frontier Program.

## References

* [1] See for a review paper, C. Uher, J. Supercond. **3**, 337
(1990). * [2] S. Hagen, Z. Z. Wang, and N. P. Ong, Phys. Rev. B **40**,
9389 (1989). * [3] M. F. Crommie and A. Zettle, Phys. Rev. B **41**, 10
978 (1990). * [4] A. V. Inyushkin, A. N. Taldenkov, L. N. Dem’yanets, T.
G. Uvarova, and A. B. Bykov, Physica B **194-196**, 479 (1994). * [5] J.
Bardeen, G. Rickayzen, and L. Tewordt, Phys. Rev. **113**, 1014
(1959). * [6] L. Tewordt and T. H. Wolkhausen, Solid State Commun.
**70**, 839 (1989). * [7] R. C. Yu, M. B. Salamon, Jian Ping Lu, and W.
C. Lee, Phys. Rev. Lett. **69**, 1431 (1992). * [8] P. B. Littlewood and
C. M. Varma, J. Appl. Phys. **69**, 4980 (1991). * [9] Y. Yamada and Y.
Shiohara, Physica C **217**, 182 (1993). * [10] M. Matsukawa, F.
Tatezaki, K. Noto, H. Fujishiro, K. Michishita, and Y. Kubo, Cryogenics
**34**, 685 (1994). * [11] J. L. Cohn, E. F. Skelton, S. A. Wolf, J. Z.
Liu, and R. N. Shelton, Phys. Rev. B **45**, 13 144 (1992). * [12] L. B.
Ioffe and G. Kotliar, Phys. Rev. B **42**, 10 348 (1990). * [13] P. B.
Allen, X. Du, and L. Mihaly, Phys. Rev. B **49**, 9073 (1994). * [14] L.
P. Kadanoff and P. C. Martin, Phys. Rev. **128**, 2390 (1961). * [15] C.
T. Rieck, D. Fay, and L. Tewordt, Phys. Rev. B **41**, 7289 (1990). *
[16] S. Miyamoto, Y. High, J. Schutzmann, H. Kutani, Y. Yamada, S.
Tajima, and Y. Shiohara, in _Advances in Superconductivity VII_, edited
by K. Yamafuji and T. Morishita (Springer, Berlin, 1994), Vol. 1, p.
129.
