# Observation of non-Fermi liquid behavior in hole-doped
LiFe_(1 − x)V_(x)As

L. Y. Xing,¹ X. Shi,¹ P. Richard,^(1, 2, 3,) X. C. Wang,^(1, 1) Q. Q.
Liu,¹ B. Q. Lv,¹ J.-Z. Ma,¹ B. B. Fu,¹ L.-Y. Kong,¹ H. Miao,⁴ T.
Qian,^(1, 2) T. K. Kim,⁵ M. Hoesch,⁵ H. Ding,^(1, 2, 3,) and C. Q.
Jin,^(1, 2, 3,)

p.richard@iphy.ac.cnwangxiancheng@iphy.ac.cnclqing@iphy.ac.cn

2469-9950/2016/94(9)094524(6) ¹Beijing National Laboratory for Condensed
Matter Physics, and Institute of Physics, Chinese Academy of Sciences,
Beijing 100190, China

²Collaborative Innovation Center of Quantum Matter, Beijing, China

³School of Physical Sciences, University of Chinese Academy of Sciences,
Beijing 100190, China

⁴Condensed Matter Physics and Materials Science Department, Brookhaven
National Laboratory, Upton, New York 11973, USA

⁵Diamond Light Source, Harwell Campus, Didcot OX11 0DE, United Kingdom

###### Abstract

We synthesized a series of V-doped LiFe_(1 − x)V_(x)As single crystals.
The superconducting transition temperature T_(c) of LiFeAs decreases
rapidly at a rate of 7 K per 1

2016 14 April 2016; revised manuscript received 7 September 2016;
published 28 September 2016

## I Introduction

The Fe-based superconductors are multiband systems with a Fermi surface
(FS) composed of several pockets with different orbital characters [1].
The complexity of the FS allows different low-energy scattering
processes that can stabilize long-range magnetic order and that have
even been proposed to induce superconducting (SC) pairing in these
compounds [2, 3, 4]. A recent report on Co-doped LiFeAs reveals a direct
correlation between FS nesting and manifestations of non-Fermi liquid
(NFL) behavior in the absence of a clear quantum critical point [5],
i.e., a phase transition at zero temperature. Indeed, the largest
deviation of the temperature exponent in the power law used to fit the
temperature dependence of the electrical resistivity is found for a
doping corresponding to a good nesting of the largest hole FS pocket
with d_(xy) character with the electron pockets. Unfortunately, whether
the relevant scattering causing the NFL behavior is orbital dependent is
unclear. A natural way to settle this issue is to hole-dope LiFeAs and
search for similar scattering but with FS pockets carrying different
orbital characters. Although attempts to hole-dope the BaFe₂As₂ system
by substituting Fe by lighter 3d elements have been done using Mn [6, 7,
8, 9] and Cr [10, 11, 12, 13, 14], the literature lacks a similar study
on LiFeAs, and in either cases V has not been used to induce hole
doping.

In this paper we report the synthesis and characterization of V-doped
LiFeAs. The SC transition temperature T_(c) of LiFeAs is dramatically
suppressed by V doping at a rate of 7 K per 1

## II Experiment

The single crystals of LiFe_(1 − x)V_(x)As used in this study have been
synthesized using the self-flux method and the details can be found
elsewhere [15]. Li₃As and Fe_(1 − x)V_(x)As were first synthesized as
precursors by a solid state reaction method. To synthesize Li₃As, Li
jump and As powder were sealed into a Ti tube under 1 atm Ar and
sintered at 650 ^(∘)C for 10 h. Fe_(1 − x)V_(x)As was obtained by mixing
Fe, V, and As powders, pressing the mixture into pieces and heating them
at 700 ^(∘)C for 15 h in an evacuated quartz tube. We then mixed Li₃As,
Fe_(1 − x)V_(x)As, and As together with the ratio of
Li₃As:Fe_(1 − x)V_(x)As:As = 1:0:9:1.1, and put the mixture into an
alumina crucible, sealed it into a Nb tube under 1 atm Ar atmosphere,
and sealed that into a quartz tube. The mixture was first heated to 1100
^(∘)C for 50 h and then slowly cooled down to 750 ^(∘)C at the rate of 2
^(∘)C/h to grow the single crystals. The chemical compositions of the
LiFe_(1 − x)V_(x)As single crystals used hereafter were determined by
energy dispersive x-ray spectroscopy (EDX) with an experimental accuracy
of about 10

The samples were characterized by x-ray powder diffraction (XRD) in the
10^(∘)-80^(∘) range using a Philips X’pert diffractometer at a scanning
rate of 10^(∘) per minute. The dc magnetic susceptibility was measured
by using a vibrating sample magnetometer (VSM) with a magnetic field of
30 Oe for characterizing the superconducting transition, and of 1 T for
studying the effective magnetic moment. Resistivity and Hall coefficient
measurements were performed using a six-probe technique on a Quantum
Design instrument physical property measurement system (PPMS) with a
magnetic field up to 6 T. We performed ARPES measurements at the
Dreamline beamline of the Shanghai Synchrotron Radiation Facility and at
the I05 beamline of the Diamond Light Source using Scienta D80 and
Scienta R4000 analyzers, respectively. The energy and angular
resolutions have been set to 10 meV and 0.2^(∘), respectively. All
measurements have been recorded at 20 K with 51 eV photons (vertical
momentum k_(z) ≈ 0[16]) in s and p polarization configurations.

## III Results and Discussion

Figure 1(a) shows the XRD patterns of LiFe_(1 − x)V_(x)As single
crystals. Only 00l peaks are observed and the full width at half maxima
are smaller than 0.2^(∘), suggesting high single crystal quality. The
inset shows the doping evolution of the c axis, which is consistent with
Vegard’s law. While superconductivity in most Fe-based superconductors
occurs upon carrier doping, a T_(c) of 18 K is observed in pristine
LiFeAs [17,18]. The T_(c) of LiFeAs decreases linearly upon electron
doping with Co, Ni, or Cu [15,19]. Figures 1(b) and 1(c) show the
temperature dependence of the magnetic susceptibility and the
resistivity for LiFe_(1 − x)V_(x)As with x < 0.019. All
LiFe_(1 − x)V_(x)As samples with x < 0.019 exhibit diamagnetic
susceptibility and SC zero resistivity. The SC transition T_(c)
decreases from 16 K to 6 K with x increasing to 0.014. Superconductivity
disappears at x = 0.019, as shown in Fig. 1(c). As displayed in Fig.
1(d), T_(c) decreases almost linearly with V doping at a rate of 7 K per
1

We further study the effect of V doping in the LiFeAs system from Hall
resistivity measurements. Figure 1(e) compares the Hall resistivity
ρ_(xy) of LiFeAs and LiFe_(0.958)V_(0.042)As versus the applied magnetic
field measured at 20 K. In contrast to LiFeAs, for which the slope of
dρ_(xy)/dH is negative, the slope of dρ_(xy)/dH is positive for
LiFe_(0.958)V_(0.042)As, suggesting that the substitution of Fe by V
dopes the system with holes. The temperature dependence of the Hall
coefficient R_(H) for these samples is shown in Fig. 1(f). For LiFeAs,
R_(H) is negative with a minimum value at about 100 K, which is
consistent with a previous work [22]. However, for the
LiFe_(0.958)V_(0.042)As sample, R_(H) is positive with a smaller
temperature dependence within the measured temperature range. This sign
reversal of R_(H) is an explicit indication of hole doping with the
introduction of V.

In order to confirm and quantify the introduction of hole carriers in
the V-doped LiFeAs samples, we recorded ARPES data at selected sample
dopings. We show in Figs. 2(a)-2(d) the FS measured for the V doping
levels x = 0, 0.042, 0.066, and 0.084, respectively. For each sample,
hole FS pockets at Γ and electron FS pockets at M are observed, as
indicated by the red contours extracted from the ARPES intensity maps.
The FS topology is typical of that of most iron pnictides [1]. We note
that the band structure of highly V-doped samples (x = 0.066, 0.084),
and in particular the β FS sheet (d_(xy) character), is not as sharp as
that of pristine LiFeAs. This is intrinsically due to strong impurity
scattering. The FS can be well approximated nevertheless, especially
from the trend observed in the doping evolution at low doping, where the
bands are clearly identifiable. Surprisingly, we find that while the α
(not crossing the Fermi level E_(F) in LiFeAs) and α^(′) FS pockets get
enlarged with the V concentration increasing, the other FSs barely
change with doping. Consequently, we use the FSs extracted in LiFeAs to
approximate the β FS pocket and the electronlike pockets. Obviously,
these FS contours are consistent with the FS intensity patterns at all
dopings, thus validating our approximation. As shown in Figs. 2(e) and
2(f), error bars are used to account for our limited accuracy in
determining the FSs precisely at high doping.

According to the Luttinger theorem, the electronic carrier concentration
is determined by the algebraic sum of all the

Figure 1: (a) XRD patterns of LiFe_(1 − x)V_(x)As single crystals. The
inset shows the dependence of the lattice constant c versus the doping
level x, fit to a linear line (red). (b) and (c) Temperature dependence
of the magnetic susceptibility and the normalized resistivity ρ/ρ(300 K)
of LiFe_(1 − x)V_(x)As single crystals. (d) Evolution of T_(c) as a
function of V and Co doping in LiFe_(1 − x)TM_(x)As (TM = V and Co)
single crystals. MT and RT represent T_(c) determined from the magnetic
susceptibility and from the resistivity, respectively. The data for
LiFe_(1 − x)Co_(x)As are extracted from Ref. [15], copyright ©2014 by
IOP Publishing. (e) Magnetic field dependence of the Hall resistivity
ρ_(xy) of LiFeAs and LiFe_(0.958)V_(0.042)As single crystals at 20 K.
(f) Temperature dependence of the Hall coefficient R_(H) of LiFeAs and
LiFe_(0.958)V_(0.042)As single crystals.

FS areas. The calculated area of each FS pocket as a function of doping
is shown in Fig. 2(e), and the deduced hole carrier concentration is
illustrated in Fig. 2(f). Based on a previous ARPES report [23]
exhibiting only small warping of the electronic structure of LiFeAs
along the k_(z) direction, the carrier concentration was evaluated by
considering the data recorded in the k_(z) = 0 plane only. As expected
from the Hall coefficient data, the substitution of Fe by V leads to
hole doping. However, we conclude from a simple linear fit of the
introduced free carrier concentration as a function of the V content
that only 0.3 hole carrier is introduced per substituting V dopant. We
note that neglecting the slight three dimensionality of the FS leads to
an uncertainty smaller than 0.05 holes. The experimental doping of
0.3 ± 0.1 is ten times smaller than the "nominal" value, which contrasts
with the Co- and Ni-doped cases [5,19]. Co doping into LiFeAs can be
approximated by a rigid band shift with one free electron introduced for
each Co atom. The electron FS pockets become larger while the hole FS
pockets shrink upon Co doping in LiFeAs, with their algebraic sum
respecting the Luttinger theorem [5]. The situation is quite different
in V-doped LiFeAs. As indicated in Fig. 2(e), the change in the free
carrier concentration is practically related only to the α^(′) FS
pocket, thus indicating that V doping does not follow a rigid band
shift.

This unusual band structure evolution with V doping is further
illustrated in Fig. 3. We use s polarized and p polarized incident light
to highlight the bands carrying different orbital characters. As shown
in Figs. 3(a)-3(h), the inner hole bands at Γ (d_(xz)/d_(yz)) shift
towards lower binding energy upon V doping, as expected. In contrast,
the dispersions of the outer hole band at Γ [d_(xy), see Figs.
3(a)-3(d)] and of the electron bands at M [Figs. 3(i)-3(l)] are
practically unchanged, at least within the current experimental
uncertainties. This is summarized in Fig. 3(m). The reason for this
dichotomy of band filling behavior in V-doped LiFeAs is unclear and goes
beyond the scope of this paper.

A recent report on Co-doped LiFeAs indicates that the improvement upon
doping of the nesting conditions between the hole and electron FS
pockets leads to a FL to a NFL behavior [5]. As the size of the α^(′) FS
pocket increases with V doping, whereas the electron FS pockets remain
nearly unchanged, one can wonder if FS nesting can also lead to a NFL in
this system. To check this scenario, we measured the resistivity of the
LiFe_(1 − x)V_(x)As samples as a function of the temperature T and
fitted the data with ρ = ρ₀ + Aτ^(n), where A and n are constants and ρ₀
is the residual resistivity (Fig. 4). To minimize contamination from the
semiconducting transition at low temperature for highly doped samples,
we compare the results obtained with three different temperature ranges.
In the first series of fits [fit1 in Fig. 4(g)], the lowest temperature
is chosen as low as possible, but with the minimum of the resistivity
curve outside of the fitting range. The corresponding temperature range
fits are given by the red curves in Figs. 4(b)-4(f). In the second
series [fit2 in Fig. 4(g)], the fit starts at the semiconducting
transition. Finally, for the last series of fit [fit3 in Fig. 4(g)], the
resistivity was fitted in the 30-70 K temperature range for all dopings.
Despite small discrepancies, the doping evolution of the exponent n,
displayed in Fig. 4(g), has the same trends for all the fitting methods.

Figure 3: (a)–(d) ARPES intensity plots near Γ of LiFe_(1 − x)V_(x)As
recorded with s polarized light for x = 0, 0.042, 0.066, and 0.084,
respectively. (e)–(h) Same as (a)–(d) but recorded with p polarized
light. (i),(j) Intensity plots near M for x = 0 and 0.066 samples,
obtained at 20 K along the Γ-M direction, with s polarized 51 eV
photons. (k),(l) Same as (i),(j) but using p polarized photons. (m)
Comparison of the band dispersions. The outer holelike band and the
electronlike bands, in gray, do not change within the experimental
uncertainties.

Figure 2: (a)–(d) ARPES FS intensity maps of LiFe_(1 − x)V_(x)As for
x = 0, 0.042, 0.066, and 0.084, respectively. The maps were recorded
with s polarized 51 eV photons and integrated within a 10 meV energy
window centered at E_(F). The solid red lines appended on the plots are
extracted FS contours at each doping. The dashed red lines correspond to
data extracted in LiFeAs. (e) Calculated area of different FS pockets as
a function of doping. (f) Number of carriers introduced by the Fe → V
substitution deduced from the FS volume. The dashed pink line is a
linear fit showing that a 0.3 hole is added to the system for each V
dopant.

As with Co-doped LiFeAs [5], the exponent n deviates from 2 with the
introduction of V dopants, suggesting a NFL regime. We emphasize that
this is already true at low doping, away from the semiconducting
transition. Interestingly, n reaches a minimum of 1.01 for a doping of
x = 0.084, before increasing again towards 2 with further doping. We
caution that although the precise values of the exponent n are
questionable at high doping, the trend is clear. As with Co-doped
LiFeAs, this behavior strongly suggests that V-doped LiFeAs is host to
low-energy fluctuations enhanced with the nesting conditions. The
observation of a NFL behavior without quantum critical point in both
Co-doped and V-doped LiFeAs is consistent with a recent theoretical
study emphasizing the impact of nesting on the temperature evolution of
the electrical conductivity [24]. We caution though that the linear
resistivity in the cuprates was previously derived in the context of a
FL with a large density of states (like a van Hove singularity) near
E_(F)[25, 26], a condition that also applies to Fe-based superconductors
near good nesting conditions.

As shown in Fig. 4(k), a good nesting is found at x = 0.084 between the
α^(′) FS pocket, which carries a d_(xz)/d_(yz) orbital character, and
the inner electron FS pocket γ, mainly derived from the d_(xy) orbital.
This situation is symmetrical to the one found in Co-doped LiFeAs, for
which the lowest n coincides with the best nesting conditions between
the outer hole FS pocket β with a d_(xy) orbital character and the outer
electron FS pocket δ, which carries a dominant d_(xz)/d_(yz) orbital
character [Fig. 4(]). It is thus fair to say that the NFL behavior is
mainly due to low-energy interorbital scattering with the scattering
vector Q corresponding to the wave vector between Γ and M. Such
experimental observation is consistent with theoretical calculations
indicating that the coupling to the wave vector Q is favored between
different orbital states [27]. We caution that unlike the assumption
made in Ref. [27], this scattering is not obviously correlated to the SC
pairing.

However, our data suggest that the magnetic properties of
LiFe_(1 − x)V_(x)As go beyond simple FS nesting. When x > 0.066,
LiFe_(1 − x)V_(x)As displays a semiconducting behavior at low
temperature similar to the one observed in Cu-doped Fe-based
superconductors. A weak semiconducting behavior emerges at x ∼ 0.13 for
LiFe_(1 − x)Cu_(x)As [28] and at x ∼ 0.033 for NaFe_(1 − x)Cu_(x)As
[21]. A crossover from metallic to semiconducting behavior with Cu
doping has also been observed in Ba(Fe_(1 − x)Cu_(x))₂As₂[29],
Sr(Fe_(1 − x)Cu_(x))₂As₂[30], and Fe_(1.01 − x)Cu_(x)Se [31], and it was
proposed that Cu dopants in these materials behave like strong
scatterers inducing a metal-insulator transition due to Anderson
localization [32]. Since the critical doping for the metal-semiconductor
crossover is even lower in LiFe_(1 − x)V_(x)As, i.e., x = 0.066 in
LiFe_(1 − x)V_(x)As as compared with x = 0.4 in LiFe_(1 − x)Co_(x)As and
x = 0.13 in LiFe_(1 − x)Cu_(x)As, we also assume that the V impurities
are strong scattering centers.

We also measured the magnetic susceptibility under magnetic field up to
1 T. The amplitude of the magnetic susceptibility in LiFe_(1 − x)V_(x)As
[Fig. 5(a)] is about one order of magnitude higher than for
LiFe_(1 − x)Co_(x)As [Fig. 5(b)] and LiFe_(1 − x)Cu_(x)As [Fig. 5(c)].
As shown in Figs. 5(d) and 5(e), respectively, the susceptibilities of
LiFeAs and LiFe_(0.85)V_(0.15)As follow the Curie-Weiss law
1/(χ − χ₀) = (T − θ)/C at low temperature, where θ is the Curie
temperature. The Curie-Weiss law allows us to extract an effective
magnetic moment $\mu_{\rm eff}$. The results as a function of the
content x, displayed in Fig. 5(f), indicate that while $\mu_{\rm eff}$
varies only slightly upon Co and Cu doping, it is greatly enhanced with
V doping.

The enhancement of $\mu_{\rm eff}$ by Mn dopants has been reported in
the NaFeAs system [33], where 4

Figure 4: (a) Temperature dependence of the normalized resistivity
ρ/ρ(300 K) for five selected LiFe_(1 − x)V_(x)As single crystals.
(b)–(f) Same as (a) both with a zoom on each resistivity curve. For each
sample, ρ/ρ(300 K) is fitted using ρ = ρ₀ + AT^(x). (g) Exponent n as a
function of x. The red circles (fit1) represent n values obtained from
the fitted curves shown in Figs. 3(b)–3(f). The cyan circles (fit2) are
the values obtained in the temperature range that starts by the
metal-insulator transition or T_(c). The green circles (fit3) are the
values obtained in the 30–70 K temperature range. (h)–(k) Evolution of
the hole FSs (red) and electron FSs (blue) as a function of x in
LiFe_(1 − x)V_(x)As. The electron FSs pockets have been shifted to the Γ
point for a better comparison. The electronlike pockets and the large β
holelike pocket are treated as doping independent, in agreement with the
experimental results. (l) Same as (h)–(k) but for LiFe_(0.85)Co_(0.12)As
(extracted from Ref. [5]), which shows the most pronounced NFL behavior
in the LiFe_(1 − x)Co_(x)As series.

from about 0.4 to 1.8 μ_(B) per Fe/Co/Mn site. The Mn dopants in
Na(Fe_(0.97 − x)C_(0.03)Mn_(x))As are considered to be magnetic
impurities, and the spectroscopic signature of Kondo screening on the Mn
adatoms has been observed by scanning tunneling spectroscopy [33, 34].
Accordingly, although our experiment does not allow us to conclude
unambiguously that the magnetic moments develop on the V sites, we
speculate that the V dopants in our study are magnetic impurities
because of the enhancement of $\mu_{\rm eff}$ with V substitution.

The effective magnetic moment of LiFeAs is enhanced to about 3.3 μ_(B)
by 16

## IV Summary

In summary, we synthesized and characterized single crystals of
LiFe_(1 − x)V_(x)As. Using Hall coefficient and ARPES measurements, we
showed that the substitution of Fe by V dopes the system with holes at a
rate of 0.3 hole/V. We showed from the temperature dependence of the
resistivity data that the system exhibits a NFL behavior that is
enhanced around doping where our ARPES measurements indicate a good FS
nesting between FS pockets carrying different orbital characters,
suggesting that the NFL behavior is induced by low-energy interorbital
scattering by the antiferromagnetic wave vector. Finally, the magnetic
susceptibility of LiFe_(1 − x)V_(x)As suggests that strong magnetic
moments develop following V doping, thus providing a natural explanation
for the rapid suppression of superconductivity found upon doping.

###### Acknowledgements.

We acknowledge Jiang-Ping Hu for useful discussions. This work was
supported by grants from MOST (No. 2011CBA001000, No. 2011CBA00102, No.
2012CB821403, No. 2013CB921700, and No. 2015CB921301) and NSFC (No.
11674371, No. 11004232, No. 11034011/A0402, No. 11234014, No. 11274362,
No. 11474330, and No. 11474344) of China. We acknowledge Diamond Light
Source for time on beamline I05 under Proposal No. SI11452. L.Y.X. and
X.S. contributed equally to this work.

## References

* [1] P. Richard, T. Sato, K. Nakayama, T. Takahashi, and H. Ding, Rep.
Prog. Phys. **74**, 124512 (2011). * [2] I. I. Mazin, D. J. Singh, M. D.
Johannes, and M. H. Du, Phys. Rev. Lett. **101**, 057003 (2008). * [3]
H. Ding, P. Richard, K. Nakayama, K. Sugawara, T. Arakane, Y. Sekiba, A.
Takayama, S. Souma, T. Sato, T. Takahashi, Z. Wang, X. Dai, Z. Fang, G.
F. Chen, J. L. Luo, and N. L. Wang, Europhys. Lett. **83**, 47001
(2008). * [4] S. Graser, T. A. Maier, P. J. Hirschfeld, and D. J.
Scalapino, New J. Phys. **11**, 025016 (2009). * [5] Y. M. Dai, H. Miao,
L. Y. Xing, X. C. Wang, P. S. Wang, H. Xiao, T. Qian, P. Richard, X. G.
Qiu, W. Yu, C. Q. Jin, Z. Wang, P. D. Johnson, C. C. Homes, and H. Ding,
Phys. Rev. X **5**, 031035 (2015). * [6] Y. Liu, D. L. Sun, J. T. Park,
and C. T. Lin, Physica C **470**, S513 (2010). * [7] M. G. Kim, A.
Kreyssig, A. Thaler, D. K. Pratt, W. Tian, J. L. Zarestky, M. A. Green,
S. L. Bud’ko, P. C. Canfield, R. J. McQueeney, and A. I. Goldman, Phys.
Rev. B **82**, 220503(R) (2010). * [8] A. Thaler, H. Hodovanets, M. S.
Torikachvili, S. Ran, A. Kracher, W. Straszheim, J. Q. Yan, E. Mun, and
P. C. Canfield, Phys. Rev. B **84**, 144528 (2011). * [9] A. Pandey, V.
K. Anand, and D. C. Johnston, Phys. Rev. B **84**, 014405 (2011). * [10]
A. S. Sefat, D. J. Singh, L. H. VanBebber, Y. Mozharivskyj, M. A.
McGuire, R. Jin, B. C. Sales, V. Keppens, and D. Mandrus, Phys. Rev. B
**79**, 224524 (2009).

Figure 5: Temperature dependence of the magnetic susceptibility in a 1 T
magnetic field of (a) LiFe_(1 − x)V_(x)As, (b) LiFe_(1 − x)Co_(x)As, and
(c) LiFe_(1 − x)Cu_(x)As single crystals. (d) and (e) Magnetic
susceptibility fitted according to the Curie-Weiss law
1/(χ − χ₀) = (T − θ)/C. (f) Effective moment per Fe/TM site as a
function of the doping concentration x for LiFe_(1 − x)TM_(x)As (TM = V,
Co, and Cu) single crystals.

* [11] S. L. Bud’ko, S. Nandi, N. Ni, A. Thaler, A. Kreyssig, A.
Kracher, J.-Q. Yan, A. I. Goldman, and P. C. Canfield, Phys. Rev. B
**80**, 014522 (2009). * [12] E. Colombier, M. S. Torikachvili, N. Ni,
A. Thaler, S. L. Bud’ko, and P. C. Canfield, Supercond. Sci. Technol.
**23**, 054003 (2010). * [13] K. Marty, A. D. Christianson, C. H. Wang,
M. Matsuda, H. Cao, L. H. VanBebber, J. L. Zarestky, D. J. Singh, A. S.
Sefat, and M. D. Lumsden, Phys. Rev. B **83**, 060509(R) (2011). * [14]
J. P. Clancy, B. D. Gaulin, and A. S. Sefat, Phys. Rev. B **85**, 054115
(2012). * [15] L. Y. Xing, H. Miao, X. C. Wang, J. Ma, Q. Q. Liu, Z.
Deng, H. Ding, and C. Q. Jin, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter **26**, 435703
(2014). * [16] H. Miao, T. Qian, X. Shi, P. Richard, T. K. Kim, M.
Hoesch, L. Y. Xing, X.-C. Wang, C.-Q. Jin, J.-P. Hu, and H. Ding, Nat.
Commun. **6**, 6056 (2015). * [17] X. C. Wang, Q. Q. Liu, Y. X. Lv, W.
B. Gao, L. X. Yang, R. C. Yu, F. Y. Li, and C. Q. Jin, Solid Stat.
Commun. **148**, 538 (2008). * [18] J. H. Tapp, Z. Tang, B. Lv, K.
Sasmal, B. Lorenz, P. C. W. Chu, and A. M. Guloy, Phys. Rev. B **78**,
060505(R) (2008). * [19] M. J. Pitcher, T. Lancaster, J. D. Wright, I.
Franke, A. J. Steele, P. J. Baker, F. L. Pratt, W. T. Thomas, D. R.
Parker, S. J. Blundell, and S. J. Clarke, J. Am. Chem. Soc. **132**,
10467 (2010). * [20] P. C. Canfield, S. L. Bud’ko, N. Ni, J. Q. Yan, and
A. Kracher, Phys. Rev. B **80**, 060501 (2009). * [21] A. F. Wang, J. J.
Lin, P. Cheng, G. J. Ye, F. Chen, J. Q. Ma, X. F. Lu, B. Lei, X. G. Luo,
and X. H. Chen, Phys. Rev. B **88**, 094516 (2013). * [22] O. Heyer, T.
Lorenz, V. B. Zabolotnyy, D. V. Evtushinsky, S. V. Borisenko, I.
Morozov, L. Harnagea, S. Wurmehl, C. Hess, and B. Buchner, Phys. Rev. B
**84**, 064512 (2011). * [23] V. Brouet, D. LeBoeuf, P.-H. Lin, J.
Mansart, A. Taleb-Ibrahimi, P. Le Fevre, F. Bertran, A. Forget, and D.
Colson, Phys. Rev. B **93**, 085137 (2016). * [24] C. Setty and P. W.
Phillips, Phys. Rev. B **93**, 094516 (2016). * [25] G. Kastrinakis,
Physica C **340**, 119 (2000). * [26] G. Kastrinakis, Phys. Rev. B
**71**, 014520 (2005). * [27] J. Zhang, R. Shkepnek, R. M. Fernandes,
and J. Schmalian, Phys. Rev. B **79**, 220502(R) (2009). * [28] L. Y.
Xing, X. C. Wang, Z. Deng, S. J. Zhang, S. M. Feng, W. M. Li, Q. Q. Liu,
and C. Q. Jin, Int. J. Mod. Phys. B **29**, 1542023 (2015). * [29] N.
Ni, A. Thaler, J. Q. Yan, A. Kracher, E. Colombier, S. L. Bud’ko, P. C.
Canfield, and S. T. Hannahs, Phys. Rev. B **82**, 024519 (2010). * [30]
Y. J. Yan, P. Cheng, J. J. Ying, X. G. Luo, F. Chen, H. Y. Zou, A. F.
Wang, G. J. Ye, Z. J. Xiang, J. Q. Ma, and X. H. Chen, Phys. Rev. B
**87**, 075105 (2013). * [31] A. J. Williams, T. M. McQueen, V.
Ksenofontov, C. Felser, and R. J. Cava, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter
**21**, 305701 (2009). * [32] S. Chadov, D. Scharf, G. H. Fecher, C.
Felser, L. Zhang, and D. J. Singh, Phys. Rev. B **81**, 104523 (2010). *
[33] Q. Deng, X. Ding, S. Li, J. Tao, H. Yang, and H.-H. Wen, New J.
Phys. **16**, 063020 (2014). * [34] Z. Wang, D. Fang, Q. Deng, H. Yang,
C. Ren, and H.-H. Wen, Phys. Rev. B **89**, 214515 (2014). * [35] I. A.
Zaliznyak, Z. Xu, J. M. Tranquada, G. Gu, A. M. Tsvelik, and M. B.
Stone, Phys. Rev. Lett. **107**, 216403 (2011). * [36] R. Hu, E. S.
Bozin, J. B. Warren, and C. Petrovic, Phys. Rev. B **80**, 214514
(2009). * [37] C. Koz, S. Rossler, A. A. Tsirlin, C. Zor, G. Armagan, S.
Wirth, and U. Schwarz, Phys. Rev. B **93**, 024504 (2016).
