# Magnetic penetration depth in single crystals of SrPd₂Ge₂
superconductor

H. Kim,^(1, *) N. H. Sung,^(2, 2) B. K. Cho,^(2, 3, 1) M. A.
Tanatar,^(1, 8) and R. Prozorov^(1, 1)

¹The Ames Laboratory and Department of Physics and Astronomy, Iowa State
University, Ames, Iowa 50011, USA

²School of Materials Science and Engineering, Gwangia Institute of
Science and Technology (GIST), Gwangia 500-712, Korea

³Department of Photonics and Applied Physics, Gwangia Institute of
Science and Technology (GIST), Gwangia 500-712, Korea

###### Abstract

The in-plane magnetic penetration depth λ_(m)(T) was measured in a
single crystal of SrPd₂Ge₂ superconductor in a dilution refrigerator
down to T = 60 mK and in magnetic fields up to H_(dc) = 1 T by using a
tunnel diode resonator. The London penetration depth λ saturates
exponentially approaching T → 0 indicating fully gapped
superconductivity. The thermodynamic Rutgers formula was used to
estimate λ(0) = 426 ± 60 nm which was used to calculate the superfluid
density, ρ_(s)(T) = λ²(0)/λ²(T). Analysis of ρ_(s)(T) in the full
temperature range shows that it is best described by a single-gap
behavior, perhaps with somewhat stronger coupling. In a magnetic field,
the measured penetration depth is given by the Campbell penetration
depth which was used to calculate the theoretical critical current
density j_(c). For H ≤ 0.45 T, the strongest pinning is achieved not at
the lowest, but at some intermediate temperature, probably due to
matching effect between temperature-dependent coherence length and
relevant pinning length scale. Finally, we find compelling evidence for
surface superconductivity. Combining all measurements, the entire H-T
phase diagram of SrPd₂Ge₂ is constructed with an estimated
H_(c2)(0) = 0.4817 T.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.87.094515

## 1 Introduction

Superconductivity in the tetragonal ThCr₂Si₂-type SrPd₂Ge₂ was
discovered first in polycrystalline samples [1] and later in single
crystals [2] with the superconducting phase transition temperature
(T_(c)) at 3.0 and 2.7 K, respectively. The upper critical field
(H_(c2)) was estimated to be 4920 Oe at T = 0 by using Helfand-Werthamer
(HW) theory [3] based on the experimental data obtained only down to
T = 0.7T_(c). [2] It has been found that T_(c) and H_(c2) can be
slightly increased by chemical doping. [4] The London penetration depth
and coherence length were reported to be λ(0) = 566 nm and ξ(0) = 21 nm
(Ref. [5]) and λ(0) = 345 ± 30 nm ξ(0) = 25.6 ± 0.5 nm. [6] These values
give the Ginzburg-Landau parameter of κ = 27 (Ref. [5]) and κ = 13.5
(Ref. [6]), which makes SrPd₂Ge₂ a strong type-II superconductor.
Furthermore, thermodynamic [2] and tunneling spectroscopy measurements
are consistent with a strong-coupling s-wave Bardeen-Cooper-Schrieffer
(BCS) superconductor with the zero-temperature value of the
superconducting gap of Δ₀ ≈ 2k_(B)T_(c). [5, 6]–slightly higher but not
far from the weak-coupling value of 1.76.

This superconductor is interesting particularly because of compositional
similarity to the isostructural Fe-and Ni-pnictide superconductors with
comparable T_(c) such as KFe₂As₂, BaNi₂As₂, and SrNi₂P₂. Although there
is strong experimental evidence for nodal superconductivity in KFe₂As₂
(Refs. [7] and [8]), the Ni-based compounds have been shown to be fully
gapped by thermodynamic and thermal transport measurements. [9, 10] This
naturally prompts the question: what is the structure of a
superconducting gap in SrPd₂Ge₂? So far, not much work has been done on
SrPd₂Ge₂ in this direction. Tunneling spectroscopy between 0.17T_(c) and
T_(c) is consistent with a single, isotropic gap superconductor. [5]
However, the thermodynamic, thermal transport, and penetration depth
measurements down to much lower temperatures are necessary to provide
objective conclusions regarding the gap symmetry in SrPd₂Ge₂.

The magnetic penetration depth is among the most useful probes to
explore the superconducting state. [11] In zero external magnetic field,
this represents the London penetration depth. If measured with
sufficient accuracy and down to low enough temperatures, it can be used
to understand the angular variation of the superconducting gap on the
Fermi surface. [11, 12] In the presence of vortices, the magnetic field
penetration includes contribution of the Campbell penetration depth
which depends on the elastic properties of vortex lattice and is linked
directly to the critical current density. [13] There has been only
limited work performed in the mixed state of SrPd₂Ge₂[6, 14] and no
studies of the critical current density over the full temperature and
field range.

In this article we report precision tunnel diode resonator measurements
of the magnetic penetration depth λ_(m)(T) in a single crystal of
SrPd₂Ge₂ (T_(c) = 2.7 K) performed in a dilution refrigerator with
temperatures down to T ≈ 0.02T_(c) and in magnetic fields up to 1 T
 ≈ 2H_(c2)(0). The low-temperature variation of the London penetration
depth, Δλ(T), clearly shows exponential saturation. The thermodynamic
Rutgers formula was used to estimate λ(0) = 426 ± 60 nm which was used
to calculate the superfluid density, ρ_(s)(T) = λ²(0)/λ²(T). Analysis of
ρ_(s)(T) in the full temperature range shows that it is best described
by a single-gap behavior, perhaps with somewhat strong coupling. The
upper critical field, H_(c2)(0) = 0.4817 T was determined by the HW
theory from the field sweeps at different temperatures down to
0.02T_(c). In finite magnetic fields, H < H_(c2)(0), the Campbell
penetration depth λ_(C)(T, H) shows a minimum at an intermediate
temperature (rather than at the lowest temperature) which indicates
nonmonotonic variation of the theoretical critical current (j_(c))
calculated from λ_(C)(T, H). Additional diamagnetic response detected
above H_(c2)(T) is consistent with surface superconductivity with
H_(c3)(T) = 1.695H_(c2)(T). [15]

## 2 Experiment

Single crystals of SrPd₂Ge₂ were grown using a self-flux method as
described in Ref. [2]. The magnetic penetration depth was measured in a
dilution refrigerator by using a tunnel diode resonator (TDR) technique
(for review, see Ref. [11]). The sample with dimensions (0.51 x 0.70 x
0.04) mm³ with the shortest direction being along the c axis was mounted
on a sapphire rod and inserted into a 2-mm-inner-diameter copper coil
that produces rf excitation field with empty-resonator frequency of 17
MHz with amplitude H_(ac) ∼ 20 mOe, much smaller than H_(c1) of typical
conventional superconductors. Measurements of the in-plane magnetic
penetration depth were done with both H_(dc) and H_(ac)lc axis. The
shift of the resonant frequency (in cgs units), Δf(T) = −G4πχ(T), where
χ(T) is the differential magnetic susceptibility,
G = f₀V_(s)/2V_(c)(1 − N) is a constant, N is the demagnetization
factor, V_(s) is the sample volume, and V_(c) is the coil volume. The
constant G was determined from the full frequency change by physically
pulling the sample out of the coil. With the characteristic sample size
R, 4πχ = (λ/R)tanh (R/λ) − 1, from which Δλ can be obtained.[11, 16]

## III Results and Discussion

### London penetration depth

Figure 1 shows temperature variation of the in-plane London penetration
depth, Δλ(T), measured in a single crystal of SrPd₂Ge₂ superconductor
which exhibits a very sharp superconducting phase transition at
T_(c) = 2.7 K as shown in the inset, indicating a high quality,
homogeneous sample. In the main panel, Δλ(T) is shown with temperatures
up to about 0.67T_(c). The saturation in T → 0 limit and almost flat
temperature dependence, Δλ(T_(c)/λ) < 10 nm, indicate fully gapped
superconductivity. Experimental Δλ(T) is best fit to a power-law
function, Δλ(T) = AT^(n), with the exponent of n = 2.7 ± 0.1 and
prefactor of A = 12.2 ± 0.4 nm/K.[27] The fitting curve is shown by the
red solid line. A power-law function with such a high exponent has very
weak variation at low temperatures, indistinguishable from the
exponential behavior which is predicted for a full superconducting gap.
In fact, the BCS low-temperature form,
$\Delta\lambda(T)=\lambda(0)\sqrt{\pi\,\Delta_{0}/2k_{B}T}\exp{(-\Delta_{0}/k_{ B}T)}$,
where Δ₀ is the maximum gap value at T = 0, fits the data equally well
for T < T_(c)/3 where it is expected to be valid. However, the best
fitting is achieved with λ(0) = 50 nm and Δ₀ = 0.74k_(B)T_(c). The
latter is impossible in the single-gap clean limit where
Δ₀ ≈ 1.76k_(B)T_(c) is expected. The value of λ(0) is also much smaller
than the reported value of 566 nm.[5] Similar low-temperature features
can be seen in two-band superconductors such as MgB₂,[17]2H-NbSe₂,[18]
Lu₂Fe₃Si₅,[19] and more recently LiFeAs.[20] However, as we show below,
analysis of the superfluid density in the full temperature range is
inconsistent with a two-gap clean limit behavior. Instead, it is more
likely that we are dealing with moderate pair-breaking scattering (maybe
due to well-known magnetic impurities in Pd) which results in a finite
density of states inside the gap. We also point out that total
temperature variation of London penetration depth up to T_(c)/3 in
SrPd₂Ge₂ is much smaller than in a known nodal superconductor with
similar T_(c), KFe₂As₂,[7] see Fig. 1. This difference indicates a
difference in the density of quasi-particle excitations due to a
difference in the nodal gap structure.

For a metallic sample, the measured penetration depth above T_(c) is
determined either by the skin depth δ or sample size. In the case of
skin depth limiting, the value of λ(T > T_(c)) shown in the inset of
Fig. 1 is one-half of the actual skin depth.[21] Therefore, we can
estimate normal-state resistivity from the measurements using
ρ = (2πω/c²)δ[20]. For SrPd₂Ge₂ with ω/2π = f₀ = 17 MHz and δ/2 ≈ 20μm,
the calculated resistivity is approximately 12 μΩ cm which is much less
than the experimental value of 68μΩ cm.[2] Therefore, we conclude that
our measurements are taken in a sample-size limited regime. Using the
same equation, the estimated skin depth is 0.10 mm which means the rf
field penetration is comparable to the dimensions of the sample.

Finally, we note that the data exhibit a smooth transition from
superconducting penetration depth to the normal state between T = T_(c)
and T^(*) ≈ 3.0 K, which has also been seen in transport measurement.[2]
Interestingly, T^(*) = 3 K is the onset of superconductivity observed in
polycrystalline samples.[1] A similar feature has also been observed in
a related superconductor BaNi₂As₂.[22] Perhaps this feature requires
further study.

### Superfluid density

While the low-temperature behavior is important for characterization of
the gap minima, the superconducting gap can be probed at all energies by
the analysis of the superfluid density, ρ_(s)(T) = λ²(0)/λ²(T), in the
entire temperature range.[12] However, determination of ρ_(s) requires
knowledge of the absolute value of λ(0) which does not come from our
measurements. In SrPd₂Ge₂, λ(0) = 40 nm was suggested from measured band
structure parameters in the clean limit,[5] which leads to λ(0) = 566 nm
in the dirty limit. Also, λ(0) ≈ 390 nm was estimated from the upper
critical field measurements,[2] and λ(0) = 345 ± 5 nm from first field
penetration value.[6] The variation of the literature values is quite
significant and

Figure 1: (Color online) In-plane London penetration depth in a single
crystal of SrPd₂Ge₂. Main panel: Open circles represent experimental
data. Solid and dashed lines show power-law and BCS (single-gap s-wave)
low-temperature fits. Dotted line shows the data for KFe₂As₂ taken from
Ref. [7] for comparison. Inset: London penetration depth for
temperatures between 1.5 K and 3.3 K demonstrating a sharp transition at
T_(c) = 2.7 K.

below we use, thermodynamic approach based on the Rutgers formula,[23]
relating various superconducting state parameters at T_(c). This formula
was adapted for the use with the superfluid density by Kogan[24] as
briefly described here. In the Ginzburg-Landau regime, i.e. near T_(c),
it is straightforward to show that

$$\left|\frac{\partial\rho_{s}}{\partial t}\right|_{T_{c}}=\frac{16\pi^{2}\lambda ^{2}(0)}{\phi_{0}|\partial H_{c2}/\partial T|_{T_{c}}}\Delta C_{p},$$
(1)

where ϕ₀ = 2.07 × 10⁻⁷ G cm² is a flux quantum and
|∂H_(c2)/∂T|_(T_(c)) = 0.26 T/K is determined experimentally (see Fig. 8
below). Specific-heat jump ΔC_(p) = 7381 erg/cm³ K is taken from Ref.
[4]. Applying these thermodynamic values suggests
|∂ρ/∂t|_(T_(c))/λ²(0) = 21.7μm⁻² where t = T/T_(c) is the reduced
temperature. This quantity can be compared with the actual slope of
calculated ρ_(s)(t) with various λ(0) at T_(c) as shown in Fig. 2. In
the main panel of Fig. 2, the open symbols represent the superfluid
density calculated using λ(0) = 300, 400, and 700 nm for triangles,
circles, and squares, respectively. The dashed lines are determined with
the slope calculated by Eq. (1) for the three values of λ(0) quoted
above. The line for λ(0) = 400 nm shows very good agreement with
calculated ρ_(s) while the line for λ(0) = 300 nm significantly
underestimates, and the one for λ(0) = 700 nm overestimates ρ_(s)(T).
This procedure can be repeated with various values of λ(0). The results
are summarized in the inset where the solid triangles represent
experimental slopes obtained by fitting experimental data near T_(c) to
a linear function. The gray horizontal band represents the theoretical
value of |∂ρ/∂t|_(T_(c))/λ²(0) = 21.7 ± 2.2μm⁻² determined with a 5

The superfluid density calculated with λ(0) = 426 nm is shown in Fig. 3.
The dash-dotted and dashed lines show the expectation for the clean and
dirty limits of a single-gap BCS superconductor in the weak-coupling
limit, respectively. An attempt to use a two-gap (clean) γ model[25] in
the full-temperature range converges to a single-gap limit with
Δ(0)/k_(B)T_(c) = 2.2. Therefore, the superconducting gap of SrPd₂Ge₂ is
best represented by a single-gap s-wave function, perhaps with somewhat
enhanced coupling strength. It was noted previously that the shape of
ρ_(s)(T) is close to a nonlocal-limiting case, expected in type-I
superconductors such as aluminum and cadmium.[26] A similar argument was
made in the work by Kim _et al._ in which SrPd₂Ge₂ appeared to be type I
according to the intrinsic electronic structure despite the fact that
experimental ξ(0) and λ(0) values put it in a strong type-II regime.[5]
In any case, our study confirms that simple analysis with an isotropic
Fermi surface is not sufficient and, perhaps, the results could be
explained by taking into account a realistic band structure. We can,
however, conclude that the superconducting gap of SrPd₂As₂ does not have
nodes.

### Campbell penetration depth

Figure 4(a) shows magnetic penetration depth Δλ_(m)(T, H) as a function
of temperature and magnetic field measured after cooling without
magnetic field to target low temperature and then applying a dc magnetic
field of indicated amplitude [zero-field cooled (ZFC): solid lines] and
upon cooling in field (FC: dashed lines). Increasing dc magnetic field
not only suppresses the superconducting phase transition and diamagnetic
shielding, but also induces another diamagnetic phase between the normal
state and apparent bulk superconductivity. This feature appears much
clearer above H = 0.2 T and persists at least up to H = 0.6 T which is
far greater than the upper critical field of the bulk superconductivity.
This feature can hardly

Figure 3: (Color online) Calculated superfluid density,
ρ_(s)(T) = λ²(0)/λ²(T) using λ(0) = 426 nm. Open circles represent the
experimental data. The dash-dotted and dashed lines represent single-gap
weak-coupling s-wave BCS superconductor in clean and dirty limit,
respectively.

Figure 2: (Color online) Main panel: Calculated superfluid density ρ_(s)
with various λ(0)’s. The slope of dashed lines was determined with
ΔC_(p) and |dH_(c2)/dT|_(T_(c)) using the Rutgers formula as described
in the text. Inset: Variation of |∂ρ_(s)/∂t|_(T_(c))/λ²(0) with varying
λ(0). Here ρ_(s) was determined from the experimental data. The gray
band is a theoretical estimate with 5

be understood with sample inhomogeneity or second phases since they both
should affect the measurements in zero field. Systematic tracking of
this feature reveals its possible connection to surface
superconductivity, which will be discussed later together with the
general H-T phase diagram. In addition to temperature sweeps at fixed dc
magnetic fields, magnetic field sweeps at different fixed temperatures
were performed, and superconducting transitions are clearly detected as
shown in Fig. 4(b). The determined bulk H_(c2)(T) is consistent with
T_(c)(H) determined from the temperature scans. We note that the anomaly
above H_(c2)(T) was not detected in the field sweep measurements.

Another unusual experimental observation is apparently the nonmonotonic
temperature variation of Δλ_(m)(T, H) for 0.02 T  ≤ H ≤ 0.4 T in both
ZFC and FC data. The minima of Δλ_(m)(T, H) are marked by open circles
for clarity in Fig. 4(a), and the locations of these minima are nearly
the same for both ZFC and FC data. This feature is too shallow to be due
to paramagnetic impurities (in which case it should be most pronounced
at H = 0).[27] We suggest that this behavior is caused by the size
matching of the temperature-dependent coherence length and relevant
pinning centers. Furthermore, we observed the inversion of diamagnetic
screening between ZFC and FC runs at about H = 0.2 T. The only way to
obtain a difference between FC and ZFC experiments in ac response is to
assume a nonparabolic pinning potential[28] and our results would
indicate that the effective pinning potential shape is strongly field
and temperature dependent. Conventional superconductors, like YbSb₂
(Ref. [29]) do not exhibit such upturns in a magnetic field.

In the approximation of a linear elastic response of a vortex lattice to
a small-amplitude ac perturbation (which is the case here), the total
magnetic penetration depth can be expressed as a sum of Meissner and
vortex contributions, which are represented by the London and Campbell
penetration depths, respectively, λ_(m)² = λ² + λ_(C)².[13, 30, 31]
Since we know λ from the measurements in zero field, we can readily
calculate λ_(C). At first glance, the field dependence of the Campbell
penetration depth, shown in Fig. 5, appears sublinear, $\sqrt{H}$, as
expected in conventional superconductors. However, nonmonotonic behavior
is revealed upon closer inspection as shown in the inset. This
nonmonotonic behavior at low fields originates from nonmonotonic
temperature dependence of λ_(m) discussed above.

### Theoretical critical current

We distinguish theoretical critical current, which is a parameter
entering the simple expression for the Campbell penetration depth,
$\frac{4\pi}{\alpha}j_{c}=r_{p}\phi_{0}/\lambda_{C}^{2}$ from the actual
critical current that is affected by intervortex interactions and from
the measured critical (persistent) current that is further affected by
magnetic relaxation. Here r_(p) is a characteristic radius of the
pinning potential. We assume the r_(p) to be equal to the coherence
length $\xi(T)=\sqrt{\phi_{0}/2\pi\,H_{c2}(T)}$. Obtained theoretical
critical current density is shown in Fig. 6(a) as function of
temperature at different fields and in Fig. 6(b) as a function of
applied fields at different temperatures. The critical current is
nonmonotonic as a function of temperature, showing maximum at the
intermediate temperatures. We attribute this to the matching between
temperature-dependent coherence length and pinning landscape. This
assertion is plausible given monotonic behavior of the critical current
versus field where the variation of the coherence length is much
weaker.[32] Comparison with the previous works also reaffirms that we
are dealing with the upper theoretical estimate of the critical current,
approximately four times larger than evaluated from the magnetic
measurements.[14] On the other

Figure 4: (Color online) (a) Zero-field-cooled (ZFC) and field-cooled
(FC) in-plane magnetic penetration depth measured in a single crystal of
SrPd₃Ge₂ shown by solid and dashed lines, respectively. Open circles
mark the minimum in λ_(m)(T) in each magnetic field. (b) Magnetic field
sweeps at fixed temperatures.

Figure 5: (Color online) Isothermal Campbell penetration depth as
function of a dc magnetic field calculated from the data of Fig. 4(a).
Inset: Δλ_(C)(T, H) = λ_(C)(0.06 K, H) − λ_(C)(T, H) is displayed to
show nonmonotonic behavior.

hand, direct comparison with our data, Fig. 8, shows that the line of
the maximum current density found in this work is not an extension of
the irreversibility line found in Ref. [14] and probably represents a
crossover in the pinning mechanism reflected in the change of the
effective pinning potential.

Unfortunately literature data are only available for higher
temperatures, above T = 2 K, and for weak fields less than H = 0.1 T, so
we do not know whether the nonmonotonic behavior of j_(c)(T) propagates
to the relaxed persistent current density. Furthermore, our evaluation
of the coherence length, ξ(T) (right axis in Fig. 7), allows
experimental determination of the temperature-dependent Ginzburg-Landau
parameter, κ(T) = λ(T)/ξ(T), shown in Fig. 7 (left axis). The result is
compared with the Gor’kov theory [33] where temperature correction is
introduced as A_(G)(T) = κ(T)/κ(T_(c)). The trend is correct, but the
magnitude of the variation is smaller then the observed. If we attempt
to rescale the Gor’kov’s result, the best agreement at the intermediate
temperatures is achieved with κ(T) = κ(T_(c))[2.6A_(G)(T) − 1.6].
Perhaps a better agreement could be achieved with a realistic band
structure.

### H-T phase diagram

Finally, a H-T phase diagram is established based on the measured
Δλ_(m)(T, H) as shown in Fig. 8. Open and solid circles represent bulk
superconducting phase transitions determined from temperature- and
field-sweep measurements, respectively. The upper critical field was
determined at the maximum of d Δλ/dT and d Δf/dH in temperature- and
field-sweep experiments in Fig. 4, respectively. The red solid line
through the symbols is the HW fit [3] with H_(c2)(0) = 0.4817 T. This
value was determined with the experimental data down to 0.02T_(c) in our
study, and it is very close to the estimated value H_(c2)(0) = 0.4920 T
in Ref. [2] only with the the slope at T_(c) by using the same theory.
This is a good indication that H_(c2)(T) of SrPd₂Ge₂ is orbital limited.

The additional diamagnetic phase between bulk T_(c) and normal state
detected in temperature sweeps is marked by open squares. This phase
transition is clearest in magnetic fields between 0.2 and 0.6 T. A
linear fit through these squares

Figure 8: (Color online) H-T phase diagram of SrPd₂Ge₂. Open and solid
circles represent bulk superconducting transition, H_(c2)(T), determined
by temperature and field sweeps, respectively. Red solid line is fitting
over experimental H_(c2)(T) using the HW theory. Open squares indicate
the temperatures where diamagnetic response was detected above bulk
T_(c). Red dashed line represents H_(c3) = 1.695H_(c2)(T). Open
triangles with black dash-dotted linear fit line show maximum of the
pinning. For comparison, we include the data for H_(c2) (green stars)
and a crossover from vortex liquid to vortex glass phase (violet solid
line) from Ref. [14].

Figure 6: (Color online) Calculated theoretical critical current (a) as
a function of temperature in different magnetic fields and (b) as a
function of magnetic field at fixed temperatures. Inset in (b) displays
Δj_(c)(T, H) = j_(c)(T, H) − j_(c)(0.06K,H) to show the maximum j_(c)
being at a intermediate temperature.

Figure 7: (Color online) Calculated Ginzburg-Landau parameter,
κ(T) = λ(T)/ξ(T) (symbols, left axis) compared to the Gor’kov
prediction, κ(T) = κ(T_(c))A_(G)(T) (solid line) and to modified to best
fit the data expression, κ(T) = κ(T_(c))(2.6A_(G)(T) − 1.6) (dashed
line). Right axis shows estimated coherence length.

extrapolates down to almost H_(c2)(T_(c)) and up to 1 T where the
diamagnetic phase was not seen. It is well known that surface
superconductivity boundary is given by H_(c3)(T) = 1.695H_(c2)(T).[15]
This curve fits well the diamagnetic feature observed in our
experiments, so it makes sense to assign it to surface
superconductivity.

The region of the strongest pinning, where the theoretical critical
current is maximum, is marked in Fig. 8 with solid triangles with linear
fit dashed-dotted line. This region lies deep inside the superconducting
state and is probably due to the matching effect. For comparison, we
include the data for H_(c2) (green stars) and for a crossover from
vortex liquid to vortex glass phase (violet solid line), both estimated
from the magnetization measurements.[14] The upper critical field is in
a good agreement with our data. The liquid-glass crossover line, on the
other hand, does not extrapolate to the line of the strong pinning found
in our measurements (although there is no overlapping temperature
interval). This indicates that the maximum theoretical critical current
line is not an extension of the irreversibility line and represents a
different crossover in the pinning mechanism reflected in the
nonmonotonic change in the shape of the pinning potential.

## IV Summary

Temperature- and magnetic-field-dependent penetration depth was measured
in single crystals of SrPd₂Ge₂ superconductor by using a tunnel diode
resonator technique. For H = 0, the London penetration depth saturates
at low temperatures indicating a fully gapped superconductivity in
SrPd₂Ge₂. The calculated superfluid density is best described by a
single-gap s-wave superconductor, perhaps slightly on the stronger
coupling side. The H_(c2)(T) was measured down to 0.02T_(c) and could be
well described by the HW theory with H_(c2)(0) = 0.4817 T and is clearly
limited by the orbital depairing. In the magnetic fields between 0.2 and
0.6 T, another diamagnetic phase different from bulk superconductivity
is clearly seen, and this phase line is consistent with the surface
superconductivity bound by the third critical field,
H_(c3) = 1.695H_(c2). The Campbell penetration depth and the theoretical
critical current density both exhibit nonmonotonic behavior with the
strongest pinning at intermediate temperatures. We assign maximum
pinning to matching effects between the temperature-dependent coherence
length and the relevant pinning landscape length scale.

## Acknowledgments

R.P., M.A.T., and H.K. thank V. G. Kogan for insightful comments and the
suggestion to use the thermodynamic Rutgers formula for analysis of the
superfluid density. H.K. and N.H.S. thank J. Kim for useful discussions.
The work at Ames was supported by the US Department of Energy, Office of
Basic Energy Sciences, Division of Materials Sciences and Engineering
under Contract No. DE-AC02-07CH11358. The work at GIST was supported by
the Ministry of Education, Science and Technology of the Republic of
Korea (Grant No. 2011-0028736).

## References

* [1] Hyunsoo@iastate.edu * [2] nakheon@gmail.com * [3]
chobk@gist.ac.kr * [4] tanatar@ameslab.gov * [5] Corresponding author:
prozorov@ameslab.gov * [6] H. Fujii and A. Sato, Phys. Rev. B **79**,
224522 (2009). * [7] N. H. Sung, J.-S. Rhyee, and B. K. Cho, Phys. Rev.
B **83**, 094511 (2011). * [8] E. Helfand and N. R. Werthamer, Phys.
Rev. **147**, 288 (1966). * [9] N. H. Sung, C. J. Roh, B. Y. Kang, and
B. K. Cho, J. Appl. Phys. **111**, 07E117 (2012). * [10] T. K. Kim, A.
N. Yaresko, V. B. Zabolotnyy, A. A. Kordyuk, D. V. Evtushinsky, N. H.
Sung, B. K. Cho, T. Samuely, P. Szabo, J. G. Rodrigo, J. T. Park, D. S.
Inosov, P. Samuely, B. Buchner, and S. V. Borisenko, Phys. Rev. B
**85**, 014520 (2012). * [11] T. Samuely, P. Szabo, Z. Pribulov, N. H.
Sung, B. K. Cho, T. Klein, V. Cambel, J. G. Rodrigo, and P. Samuely,
Supercond. Sci. Technol. **26**, 015010 (2013). * [12] K. Hashimoto, A.
Serafin, S. Tonegawa, R. Katsumata, R. Okazaki, T. Saito, H. Fukazawa,
Y. Kohori, K. Kihou, C. H. Lee, A. Iyo, H. Eisaki, H. Ikeda, Y. Matsuda,
A. Carrington, and T. Shibauchi, Phys. Rev. B **82**, 014526 (2010). *
[13] J.-P. Reid, M. A. Tanatar, A. Juneau-Fecteau, R. T. Gordon, S. R.
de Cotret, N. Doiron-Leyraud, T. Saito, H. Fukazawa, Y. Kohori, K.
Kihou, C. H. Lee, A. Iyo, H. Eisaki, R. Prozorov, and L. Taillefer,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **109**, 087001 (2012). * [14] N. Kurita, F. Ronning,
Y. Tokiwa, E. D. Bauer, A. Subedi, D. J. Singh, J. D. Thompson, and R.
Movshovich, Phys. Rev. Lett. **102**, 147004 (2009). * [15] N. Kurita,
F. Ronning, C. F. Miclea, E. D. Bauer, K. Gofryk, J. D. Thompson, and R.
Movshovich, Phys. Rev. B **83**, 094527 (2011). * [16] R. Prozorov and
R. W. Giannetta, Supercond. Sci. Technol. **19**, R41 (2006). * [17] R.
Prozorov and V. G. Kogan, Rep. Prog. Phys. **74**, 124505 (2011). * [18]
E. H. Brandt, Rep. Prog. Phys. **58**, 1465 (1995). * [19] N. H. Sung,
Y. J. Jo, and B. K. Cho, Supercond. Sci. Technol. **25**, 075002
(2012). * [20] M. Tinkham, _Introduction to Superconductivity_, 2nd ed.
(Dover, New York, 2004). * [21] R. Prozorov, R. W. Giannetta, A.
Carrington, and F. M. Araujo-Moreira, Phys. Rev. B **62**, 115 (2000). *
[22] J. D. Fletcher, A. Carrington, O. J. Taylor, S. M. Kazakov, and J.
Karpinski, Phys. Rev. Lett. **95**, 097005 (2005). * [23] J. D.
Fletcher, A. Carrington, P. Diener, P. Rodiere, J. P. Brison, R.
Prozorov, T. Oltheser, and R. W. Giannetta, Phys. Rev. Lett. **98**,
057003 (2007). * [24] R. T. Gordon, M. D. Vannette, C. Martin, Y.
Nakajima, T. Tamegai, and R. Prozorov, Phys. Rev. B **78**, 024514
(2008). * [25] H. Kim, M. A. Tanatar, Y. J. Song, Y. S. Kwon, and R.
Prozorov, Phys. Rev. B **83**, 100502 (2011).

* Lifshitz et al. (1984) E. M. Lifshitz, L. D. Landau, and L. P.
Pitaevskii, _Electrodynamics of Continuous Media_, 2nd ed.
(Butterworth-Heinemann, London, 1984). * Ronning et al. (2008) F.
Ronning, N. Kurita, E. D. Bauer, B. L. Scott, T. Park, T. Klimczuk, R.
Movshovich, and J. D. Thompson, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter **20**, 342203
(2008). * Rutgers (1934) A. J. Rutgers, Physica **1**, 1055 (1934). *
Hyunsoo Kim et al. (in preparation) Hyunsoo Kim, K. Cho, M. A. Tanatar,
R. Prozorov, and V. G. Kogan (in preparation). * Kogan et al. (2009) V.
G. Kogan, C. Martin, and R. Prozorov, Phys. Rev. B **80**, 014507
(2009). * Bonalde et al. (2003) I. Bonalde, B. D. Yanoff, M. B. Salamon,
and E. E. M. Chia, Phys. Rev. B **67**, 012506 (2003). * Cooper (1996)
J. R. Cooper, Phys. Rev. B **54**, R3753 (1996). * Prozorov et al.
(2003) R. Prozorov, R. W. Giannetta, N. Kameda, T. Tamegai, J. A.
Schlueter, and P. Fournier, Phys. Rev. B **67**, 184501 (2003). * Zhao
et al. (2012) L. L. Zhao, S. Lausberg, H. Kim, M. A. Tanatar, M. Brando,
R. Prozorov, and E. Morosan, Phys. Rev. B **85**, 214526 (2012). *
Campbell (1969) A. M. Campbell, J. Phys. C **2**, 1492 (1969). *
Campbell (1971) A. M. Campbell, J. Phys. C **4**, 3186 (1971). * Kogan
et al. (2006) V. G. Kogan, R. Prozorov, S. L. Bud’ko, P. C. Canfield, J.
R. Thompson, J. Karpinski, N. D. Zhigadlo, and P. Miranovic, Phys. Rev.
B **74**, 184521 (2006). * Gor’kov (1960) L. P. Gor’kov, Sov. Phys. JETP
**10**, 593 (1960).
