# High-pressure phase diagram of NdFeAsO_(0.9)F_(0.1): Disappearance of
superconductivity

on the verge of ferromagnetism from Nd moments

M. Abdel-Hafiez,^(1, 2, 3,) M. Mito,⁴ K. Shibayama,⁴ S. Takagi,⁴ M.
Ishizuka,⁵ A. N. Vasiliev,^(3, 6, 7) C. Krellner,² and H. K. Mao¹

¹Center for High Pressure Science and Technology Advanced Research,
Beijing, 100094, China

²Institute of Physics, Goethe University Frankfurt, D-60438 Frankfurt/M,
Germany

³National University of Science and Technology (MISiS), Moscow 119049,
Russia

⁴Graduate School of Engineering, Kyushu Institute of Technology, Fukuoka
804-8550, Japan

⁵Renovation Center of Instruments for Science Education and Technology,
Osaka University, Osaka 560-0043, Japan

⁶Moscow State University, Moscow 119991, Russia

⁷National Research South Ural State University, Chelyabinsk 454080,
Russia

###### Abstract

We investigated transport and magnetic properties of single crystal
NdFeAsO_(0.9)F_(0.1) under hydrostatic pressures up to 50 GPa. The
ambient pressure superconductivity at T_(c) ∼ 45.4 K was fully
suppressed at P_(c) ∼ 21 GPa. Upon a further increase of pressure,
ferromagnetism associated with the order of the rare-earth subsystem was
induced at the border of superconductivity. Our finding is supported by
the hysteresis in the magnetization M(H) loops and the strong increase
in the field cooled data M(T) toward low temperatures. We also show that
the temperature evolution of the electrical resistivity as a function of
pressure is consistent with a crossover from a Fermi liquid to non-Fermi
liquid to Fermi liquid. The Hall measurements suggest that the multiband
electronic structures have changed with pressure, which should also
affect the resistivity behavior. These results give access to the
high-pressure side of the superconducting phase diagram in the 1111 type
of materials.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.98.094504

## I Introduction

A key topic in current research of strongly correlated heavy fermion
systems, high-T_(c) cuprates, and ferrates is the coexistence and
competition between superconductivity and various electronic orders [1,
2, 3]. In conventional superconductors, the electron-phonon interaction
gives rise to the attraction between electrons with opposite momenta and
opposite spins. This causes superconductivity characterized by
spin-singlet s-wave Cooper pairing and conservation of the time-reversal
symmetry [4]. In contrast, ferromagnetism breaks the time reversal
symmetry, which makes these two phenomena antagonistic to each other.
There are systems, however, where both superconductivity and
ferromagnetism stems from the same electrons, although magnetism is
suppressed prior to the emergent superconducting (SC) order. In the
heavy fermion compounds UGe₂[5] and URhGe [6, 7] superconductivity on
the verge of ferromagnetism is understood by magnetic interactions which
presumes that spin-triplet pairing is advantageous to the spin-singlet
pairing. An antiferromagnetism is not excluded by superconductivity
since the average values of the magnetic induction and exchange field
are negligibly small on the scale of the SC correlation length [8]. A
unique coexistence of superconductivity, antiferromagnetism, and
ferromagnetism was observed in RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈, where all these phenomena
were attributed to spatially separated CuO₂ planes, and Gd and Ru
magnetic moments [9]. Similarly, the coexistence of spatially separated
ferromagnetism and superconductivity was observed in the ferroarsenite
family [9, 10, 11]. The systems that evidence not just the coexistence
but also the interplay of these quantum cooperative phenomena in a
single material are the most interesting.

The normal state of high-T_(c) superconductors is quite unusual. The
electrical resistivity varies with temperature in a peculiar way which
deviates significantly from ∼T² dependence expected from the
Fermi-liquid (FL) theory of metals [12, 13, 14, 15]. Since
non-Fermi-liquid (NFL) behavior is often seen above a SC dome, there is
a consensus that its origin may hold the key to understand the pairing
mechanism in high-T_(c) superconductors [15]. Studies on the high-T_(c)
cuprates [9, 13, 14], heavy fermion metals [15], organic Bechgaard salts
[16], and iron-based superconductors [17, 18, 19, 20] imply that NFL
behavior and high-T_(c) SC dome favor proximity to magnetic order. This
fact has led to proposals ascribing both NFL behavior and high-T_(c)
superconductivity to spin fluctuations close to a magnetic quantum
critical point [21, 22]. At present, the microscopic mechanism of the
NFL behavior and its relationship to high-T_(c) superconductivity are
still under considerable debate.

The 1111-type iron-based superconductors LnFeAsO_(1 − x)F_(x) (Ln stands
for lanthanide) were the first material with a T_(c) above 50 K, besides
the cuprate superconductors [23]. A change of the rare-earth ion or
application of high pressure to the 1111-type materials [24, 25, 26, 27]
has revealed the substantial influence of the interionic distances on
the T_(c). Thus, finding a way to tune the physical properties of
NdFeAsO_(0.9)F_(0.1) is important not only for understanding all of
these interesting features but also for exploring the underlying
mechanism of superconductivity in the iron-based superconductors.
Hydrostatic pressure is a tool widely used to study materials without
changing their stoichiometry [28, 29, 30]. A number of important results
have been obtained for iron-based superconductors using high-pressure
techniques [27, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37]. Up to date, the suppression
of superconductivity under pressure in the 1111 type of materials is not
well studied.

To this end, we performed transport and magnetic property studies on a
NdFeAsO_(0.9)F_(0.1) single crystal under hydrostatic pressures up to 50
GPa. Relatively few studies on NdFeAsO_(0.9)F_(0.1) have been published
so far. The reason for this poor understanding of superconductivity is
that the current Nd1111 system phase diagrams (T_(c) vs F content) were
obtained from polycrystals [38, 39], which are problematic due to
(foreign phases, local variation of the F content, etc.). We find that
while superconductivity is monotonically suppressed with increasing the
pressure, the transport properties reveal a prominent FL-NFL-FL
crossover. We construct the most comprehensive unique
pressure-temperature phase diagram mapping out the explicit evolutions
with pressure. Our observations provide upon further increasing pressure
a clear evidence of ferromagnetism which arises from the 4f moments due
to Nd. Our results highlight a competing nature between magnetic order
and high-T_(c) superconductivity in the phase diagram of
NdFeAsO_(0.9)F_(0.1), which is a key material among the iron-based
superconductors. The paper is organized as follows. In Sec. II we give
technical details of experimental techniques. Experimental results are
presented in Sec. III. In Secs. IV and VI discussions and conclusions
will be presented.

## II Measurement techniques

High-quality single crystals of NdFeAsO and fluorine-doped NdFeAsO were
grown out of NaCl/KCl flux at ambient pressure as a new method [40]. Due
to the toxicity of arsenic, all procedures related to the sample
preparation were performed in a glove box. Starting materials were
pristine Neodymium and arsenic as well as iron(III)-oxide powder and
iron(II)-fluoride powder. After mixing together the educts were
transferred into a glassy carbon crucible. As flux material an eutectic
mixture of NaCl and KCl was used, with a molar material to flux ratio of
1:7. Batches with platteltike single crystals were carefully examined by
electron probe microanalyzer and x-ray powder diffraction. Further
details of the characterization and growth can be found in [40].

A nonmagnetic diamond anvil cell (DAC) was used for high-pressure
resistivity measurements. Four contacts were used to measure the
high-pressure in-plane resistivity with the superconductor
NdFeAsO_(0.9)F_(0.1) set in a diamond anvil cell in the PPMS-9 T
(Quantum Design). Single crystals with typical dimensions of 70 × 70 ×
10 μm³ were loaded in sample chambers made by c-BN gasket. We used an
insulating gasket made of the mixture of cubic boron nitride with epoxy.
Daphne oil 7373 was used as a pressure medium. Pressure was calibrated
by using several ruby chips with dimensions of about 1 mm placed into
the cell along with the sample at room temperature. Four Pt leads with
thickness of about 10 μm and width of about 7-12 μm were used for
four-probe measurements. For the magnetic experiments, the dc magnetic
susceptibility was observed by the vibrating coil magnetometer using a
superconducting quantum interference device magnetometer [41]. The dc
field of 30 Oe was applied by the NbTi superconducting magnet.
Contraction corresponding to a stress of up to approximately 30 GPa was
achieved using a CuBe DAC and combined NiCrAl/CuBe gasket [42]. We used
Daphne 7373 oil as a liquidlike pressure-transmitting medium. The
pressure value was evaluated measuring the fluorescence of ruby located
in the sample cavity. In the

Figure 1: (a) The T dependence of the in-plane resistance measurements
upon heating the NdFeAsO_(1 − x)F_(x) single crystals at x = 0 and 0.1.
(b) In-plane electrical resistivity ρ versus temperature between 1.6 and
19.4 GPa. The inset is a closeup of the low-temperature region,
highlighting the SC transition. (c) The T dependence of the resistivity
curves at pressures between 22.9 and 50 GPa. The insets of (a) and (c)
images of the NdFeAsO_(0.9)F_(0.1) sample mounted in a diamond anvil
cell at 1.6 and 50 GPa, respectively.

sample chamber, lead was also held as the manometer at low temperature
as well as the standard sample to judge the sign of magnetization.

## III Results

### Electrical resistivity and magnetic measurements

Figure 1(a) illustrates the T dependence of the in-plane resistance
measurements of NdFeAsO and NdFeAsO_(0.9)F_(0.1) single crystals during
heating. In the NdFeAsO_(0.9)F_(0.1) sample, the normal state exhibits
simple metallic behavior during cooling down from room T, followed by a
sharp SC transition at T_(c) ≈ 45.4 K, which agrees with magnetization
data [40]. The T_(c) is monotonically suppressed by increasing pressure
up to 19.4 GPa, which can be seen more clearly from the ρ(T) data below
60 K shown in Fig. 1(b). Here, we define the onset T_(c)^(onset) as the
temperature where the ρ(T) starts to deviate from the extrapolated
normal-state behavior, and determine T_(c)^(zero) as the
zero-resistivity temperature. The error bars are estimated to be ±1 K.
Upon increasing pressure to 19.4 GPa, the T_(c)^(onset) is gradually
suppressed to ∼5 K and the T_(c)^(zero) can barely be defined down to 2
K, the lowest temperature in this study. The pressure coefficient
dT_(c)/dP is around −2.2 K/GPa. Interestingly, when pressure increased
from 22.9 to 50 GPa, T_(c) was suppressed and a broad transition
appeared at low temperatures as shown in Fig. 1(c). A closer inspection
of the ρ(T) data in Figs. 1(b) and 1(c) also reveals a gradual evolution
of the temperature dependence of normal-state resistivity under
pressure.

To clarify the features of the pressure-induced phase transition, we
investigated the dc magnetic susceptibility under high pressure. In Fig.
2(a), we show the temperature dependence of the dc-susceptibility
components measured in the dc field with an amplitude of 30 Oe. The T
dependence of magnetization taken upon warming after field cooling and
the pressure was determined by the shift of the SC-T_(c) of lead located
in the gasket hole. We found a significant and rapid increase of the
susceptibility with increasing the pressure. The T_(c) is monotonically
suppressed by increasing pressure as shown in the resistivity. This can
be seen from the P = 11.4 and 16.8 GPa data, in which the Meissner
signal was observed

Figure 3: Pressure-temperature (P-T) phase diagram of
NdFeAsO_(0.9)F_(0.1). Pressure dependence of the SC transition
temperatures T_(c)s and a contour color plot of the normal-state
resistivity exponent n up to 50 GPa. The temperature dependence of n are
extracted from ρ(T) = ρ₀ + AT^(n) for each pressure. The pink region
illustrates that the temperature dependence of n between 1.5 ≤ n ≤ 1.75.
The values of T_(c)^(onset), T_(c)^(zero), T_(c)^(fn), and T_(c)^(z)
were determined from the high-pressure resistivity and dc magnetic
susceptibility. Above P_(c), local ferromagnetic order from the Nd
moments appear, observed in resistivity and susceptibility. The area
above the FM regime is obtained from the blue arrows in Figs. 4(i)–4(k).
The inset illustrates the pressure dependence of the Hall coefficient
R_(H), and ρ_(100K). R_(H) is extracted from the transverse resistivity
ρ_(xy); see below Fig. 5(c).

Figure 2: (a) The temperature dependence of the dc-susceptibility
components measured in dc field with an amplitude of 30 Oe. The data
were collected upon warming in different dc magnetic fields after
cooling in a zero magnetic field. The inset illustrates a photograph of
the detection coil. The inside of the main coil [20 turns, marked as
(1)] with no bobbin was cone shaped. The compensation coil [20 turns,
marked as (2)], covered with Stycast No. 2850FT, was located around the
main coil, forming a concentric gradiometer [45]. (b) The magnetic field
dependence of the isothermal magnetization M vs H loops were measured at
different pressures at 2 K, which is consistent with a standard
hysteresis loop for ferromagnets. The inset depicts the magnetic field
dependence of the isothermal magnetization M vs H loops measured at 2 K
up to 7 T with the field parallel to the c axis.

together with that of lead in the zero-field cooling. Upon further
increasing the pressure, at P = 25.5 and 30 GPa, the magnetic anomaly is
enhanced in the field-cooled scenario upon entering the ferromagnetic
phase (FM). In order to confirm this point, we plotted the magnetic
field dependence of the isothermal magnetization M vs H loops measured
at different pressures at 2 K in Fig. 2(b). The high-pressure behavior
for the M vs H loop reveals a magnetic hysteresis loop could be due to
the presence of ferromagnetic clusters within spin glass state, which in
a way contradicted the existence of long-range magnetic order (of the
ferromagnetic or antiferromagnetic type) in this system. While at
ambient pressure [inset of Fig. 2(b)], the magnetic hysteresis loop is
almost symmetric about the horizontal axis, which indicates that the
hysteresis in the crystal arises mainly from bulk flux pinning rather
than from the surface barrier. The saturated high-field magnetization
increases with increasing pressure, signifying a stabilization of
ferromagnetism under pressure.

### Temperature-pressure phase diagram

The pressure dependencies of the obtained T_(c)^(onset), T_(c)^(zero),
T_(c)^(FR), and T_(c)^(χ) for the studied NdFeAsO_(0.9)F_(0.1) are
summarized in Fig. 3, which explicitly evidences the gradual suppression
of the SC phase followed by the appearance of the FM phase above
P_(c) ∼ 21 GPa. Upon lowering the temperature, ρ(T) displays a broad
anomaly which reflects the onset of ferromagnetic ordering. The
evolution of this anomaly under pressure can be clearly seen in the
derivative of the high-pressure data illustrated in Fig. 4(b). The
nature of this magnetic transition is ferromagnetic, as shown by the T
dependence of the in-plane resistivity at different magnetic fields at
45 GPa [see Fig. 4(a)], which show that the magnetic field broadens and
slightly increases the magnetic transition. A square represents the
transition temperature for each field calculated from the higher
temperature peak of the derivative dρ/dT. Such an evolution of the SC
and FM phases is observed in other Fe-based superconductors [43, 44].
Since the Ruderman-Kittel-Kasuya-Yosida (RKKY) exchange coupling between
the Nd local moments is oscillatory with distance, starting with FM
coupling at low distances, the general trend towards ferromagnetism
under pressure is expected [43]. Interestingly, recent studies using a
minimal multiband model, have shown that the Fermi surface nesting has a
strong influence on the RKKY interaction [43, 46]. In
CeFeAsO_(1 − x)F_(x) the suppression of the AFM ordering alone is not
sufficient for the emergence of Ce-FM ordering as shown by F-doping
studies [47]. Therefore, the origin for this behavior is more complex
than a possible simple sign change of the RKKY interaction [48].

### Fermi liquid to non-Fermi liquid

To gain insights into the peculiar non-Fermi-liquid behavior, we
measured the magnetic field dependence of Hall resistivity [ρ_(xy)(H)]
at different pressure. We noticed that all curves in Fig. 5(c) have
sublinearity versus the magnetic field. Upon increasing pressure, all
curves exhibit a negative slope in the whole investigated magnetic-field
range. The inset of Fig. 3 presents the pressure dependence of the Hall
coefficient, defined as the field derivative of ρ_(xy)(H),
R_(H) ≡ ρ_(xy)(H)/dH

Figure 4: (a) The resistivity data at different magnetic fields under 45
GPa. The magnetic field broadens the magnetic transition; it also
slightly increases the FM transition. (b) T dependence of the derivative
of the resistivity dρ/dT up to 50 Gpa. (c)–(k) Resistivity as a function
of T^(α) for different P values. n is the power determined from the
single power-law fit to the resistivity as a function of T presented in
(l). The straight solid line in each panel is the linear fit. (m) The
parameter A is obtained by fitting the normal state resistivity data
below 80 K using this formula: ρ(T) = ρ₀ + AT^(*).

as the slope of a linear fitting to ρ_(xy)(H). In fact, the negative
sign of R_(H) is clearly in the whole pressure range, suggesting that
the electron-type carriers dominate the charge transport in the
NdFeAsO_(0.9)F_(0.1) system. R_(H) is negative, and its magnitude first
increases slightly with pressure and then experiences a quick reduction
above 20 GPa. Such a significant change in the pressure dependence of
R_(H) reflects a pronounced change in the band structure of
NdFeAsO_(0.9)F_(0.1) under pressure. The emergence of FM and the change
of the R_(H) -pressure dependence at the same pressure indicate a close
connection between them. Additionally, we noticed that both R_(H) and
T_(c) show similar pressure dependence behavior. Furthermore, we
performed a high-pressure magnetic susceptibility at 10 KOe measured
between 10 and 30 GPa, in order to uncover the origin of such an
intriguing phenomenon. We plotted the temperature-dependent inverse
magnetic susceptibility under several pressures; see Fig. 5(a).
Additionally, we show a semilogarithmic plot of low-temperature
susceptibility in Fig. 5(b). The data are shifted slightly vertically
for more clarity and follow M/H ∼ log₁₀T, which illustrates signature
non-Fermi-liquid behavior [49]. However, the microscopic origin of the
NFL behavior is still under debate in several materials. In general,
careful analysis of Fe-based compounds will help to investigate the
validity of pro-posed theories and, perhaps, provide a unifying model
for the breakdown of Fermi-liquid theory in all classes of the Fe-based
materials.

## IV Discussion

The Hall measurements suggest that the multiband electronic structures
have changed with pressure, which should also affect the resistivity
behavior. To uncover the origin of this crossover from Fermi-liquid to
non-Fermi-liquid behavior under pressure, we investigated the
normal-state properties, which are usually tightly correlated with the
SC states for unconventional superconductors. Figure 1(b) shows a
distinct change in the temperature dependence of normal-state
resistivity already. To quantify this evolution, we fit the ρ(T) to a
single power law ρ(T) = ρ₀ + AT^(n), [see Figs. 4(c)-4(k)], in a sliding
window width ΔT=20 K, returning the exponent n and the residual
resistivity ρ₀. The power law analysis was done way above the T_(c) and
magnetic order. The evolution of n with doping is summarized in Fig.
4(l). In NdFeAsO_(0.9)F_(0.1) (from 0 to 4 GPa), the exponent n is 2
below 100 K, i.e., the resistivity varies quadratically with
temperature, indicating a FL normal state. Upon further pressure
increase, n decreases, reaching a minimum of 1.5 at P = 14 GPa. n begins
to increase and recovers to a value of 2 again at about P = 40 GPa. The
minimum of n near P_(c) = 21 GPa might be related to a change of the
electronic structure. These results of n illustrate that a
pressure-induced FL-NFL-FL crossover appears at the high-pressure side
of the SC dome in NdFeAsO_(0.9)F_(0.1). This result indicates that the
FL-NFL-FL crossover in the investigated system is not tied to the
impurity level. Simultaneously, the absolute value of the room
temperature resistivity is strongly pressure dependent; see the inset of
Fig. 3.

For lightly doped materials, a spin fluctuation resulting from the Fermi
surface nesting between hole and electron pockets is a plausible
candidate for the pairing mechanism

Figure 5: (a) Zero-field cooled at 10 KOe presents the
temperature-dependent inverse magnetic susceptibility. (b)
Semilogarithmic plot of the low-temperature susceptibility. Black lines
are the linear fit as follows: M/H ∼ log₁₀T, which illustrates signature
non-Fermi-liquid behavior. The data are shifted vertically for clarity.
(c) The field dependence of Hall resistivity ρ_(xy)(H) of the
NdFeAsO_(0.9)F_(0.1) single crystal at pressures up to 20.5 GPa at 60 K.
Hall coefficient R_(H) extracted from the transverse resistivity ρ_(xy).
The pressure dependence of the Hall coefficient, defined as the field
derivative of ρ_(xy)(H), R_(H) ∼ ρ_(xy)(H)/dH, as the slope of a linear
fitting to ρ_(xy)(H) is presented in the inset of Fig. 3.

[25, 26, 50]. In NdFeAsO_(0.9)F_(0.1), the SDW/structural anomaly is
completely suppressed. The normal state exhibits simple metallic
behavior upon cooling down from room T, followed by a sharp SC
transition at T_(c)≈ 45.5 K of the normal state resistivity. In our
results, superconductivity can not be detected above 23 GPa. For the FL
behavior, the resistivity ρ is proportional to T². However, upon
increasing the compression, the resistivity follows T^(1.5) behavior due
to the strong quantum fluctuation. This could be a signature of quantum
critical point (QCP) [44]. However, all quantum criticality analysis for
other systems discussed here was done at low temperatures. In strongly
correlated electron systems, the coefficient A of T² is often scaled as
the strength of the electronic correlations. The sudden change in A
reflects the reconstruction of the Fermi surface topology [13]. We found
that the parameter A decreases with increasing pressure (P> 40 GPa) as
shown in Fig. 4(m). If we assumed that the Kadowaki-Woods ratio [51] is
maintained under pressure similar to the BaFe₂(As_(1 − x)F_(x))₂ system
[19], the parameter A should be proportional to the square of the
effective mass m^(*). The observed new magnetic ordering in the high
compressed NdFeAsO_(0.9)F_(0.1) system indicates the universality of the
competition between superconductivity and FM in such a kind of
superconducting system [43, 44]. It might enhance or drive
unconventional superconductivity in iron-based superconductors. The
close relationship between the FM and superconductivity indicates the
importance of spin fluctuations to mediate superconductivity. Such
fluctuations are the leading candidate of the pairing glue in iron-based
superconductors. Within the framework of coexistence between
superconductivity and FM, one can readily understand why T_(c) decreases
upon applying pressure or doping and eventually approaches absolute zero
when the system goes away from it. The decrease of T_(c) in the doped
iron-based compounds when passing through the optimal doping level has
been suggested to result from the reduction of the AF spin fluctuations
and thus the decrease of m^(*)[43, 44]. In our investigated system, we
observed the systematic decrease of T_(c) and A (thus the square of the
effective mass m^(*)). Finally, it is noteworthy that the temperature
dependence of resistivity in the normal state of the overdoped
La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄ shows T^(1.6) at the end of the SC dome, which has
been attributed to quantum criticality [13]. Likewise, our observation
of similar power-law behavior near the border of the SC dome in the
investigated system NdFeAsO_(0.9)F_(0.1) points to plausible common
physics that warrants in-depth explorations in the future.
Experimentally, these results should stimulate new investigations on
NdFeAsO_(1 − x)F_(x) and might also guide explorations of the
unconventional origins of the high-T_(c) superconductivity in this class
of materials.

## V Conclusions

To summarize, through an extensive transport study under high pressure
up to 50 GPa, we have clarified in bulk NdFeAsO_(0.9)F_(0.1) the
competition between ferromagnetism and superconductivity. FM could be
induced by the 4f moments due to Nd upon compression. We construct the
pressure-temperature phase diagram which shows a crossover from Fermi
liquid to non-Fermi liquid to Fermi liquid (FL-NFL-FL) alongside a
monotonic suppression of the superconductivity with increasing the
pressure. The phase diagram illustrates that the NFL region is moved to
the boundary of the superconducting phase, implying that they are
probably governed by different mechanisms. Our results highlight a
competing nature between magnetic order and high-T_(c) superconductivity
in the phase diagram of NdFeAsO_(0.9)F_(0.1), and may offer important
clues for discussing the unconventional origins of the high-T_(c)
superconductivity in this class of materials. Although, several
scenarios have been put forward on the competing origin between
electronic order and superconductivity, our results presented here
provide an important benchmark for further theoretical work.

###### Acknowledgements.

We acknowledge Ahuja Rajeef, Roser Valenti, and Ruediger Klingeler for
discussions. We are grateful for support from DFG, Deutsche
Forschungsgemeinschaft through MO 3014/1-1. This work has been supported
by Ministry of Education and Science of Russia through NUST (MISiS)
Grant No. K2-2017-084 and by the Act 211 of the Government of Russia,
Contract No. 02.A03.21.0004. Grants-in-Aid for Scientific Research,
Grants No. (B) 17H03379, from the Ministry of Education, Culture,
Sports, Science and Technology (MEXT), Japan.

## References

* [1] C. C. Tsuei and J. R. Kirtley, Rev. Mod. Phys. **72**, 969
(2000). * [2] E. Morosan, D. Natelson, A. H. Nevidomskyy, and Q. Si,
Adv. Mater. **24**, 4896 (2012). * [3] M. Abdel-Hafiez, Yuanyuan Zhang,
Zheng He, Jun Zhao, C. Bergmann, C. Krellner, Chun-Gang Duan, Xingye Lu,
H. Luo, P. Dai, and X.-J. Chen, Phys. Rev. B **91**, 024510 (2015). *
[4] F. Wang and D. H. Lee, Science **332**, 200 (2011). * [5] S. S.
Saxena, K. Ahilan, P. Agarwal, F. M. Grosche, R. K. Haselwimmer, M.
Steiner, E. Pugh, I. R. Walker, S. R. Julian, P. Monthoux, G. G.
Lonzarich, A. Huxley, I. Sheikin, D. Braithweite, and J. Flouquet,
Nature (London) **406**, 587 (2000). * [6] D. Aoki, A. Huxley, E.
Ressouche, D. Braithwaite, J. Flouquet, J.-P. Brison, E. Lhotel, and C.
Paulsen, Nature (London) **413**, 613 (2001). * [7] D. Braithwaite, D.
Aoki, J.-P. Brison, J. Flouquet, G. Knebel, A. Nakamura, and A. Pourret,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **120**, 037001 (2018). * [8] L. N. Bulaevskii, A. I.
Buzdin, M. L. Kulic, and S. V. Panjukov, Adv. Phys. **34**, 175
(1985). * [9] C. Bernhard, J. L. Tallon, Ch. Niedermayer, Th. Blasius,
A. Golnik, E. Bruchter, R. K. Kremer, D. R. Noakes, C. E. Stronach, and
E. J. Ansaldo, Phys. Rev. B **59**, 14099 (1999). * [10] Z. Ren, Q. Tao,
S. Jiang, C. Feng, C. Wang, J. Dai, G. Cao, and Zhu’an Xu, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **102**, 137002 (2009). * [11] S. Jiang, H. Xing, G. Xuan, Z. Ren,
C. Wang, Z.-a. Xu, and G. Cao, Phys. Rev. B **80**, 184514 (2009). *
[12] G. S. Boebinger, Science **323**, 590 (2009). * [13] R. A. Cooper,
Y. Wang, B. Vignolle, O. J. Lipscombe, S. M. Hayden, Y. Tanabe, T.
Adachi, Y. Koike, M. Nohara, H. Takagi, C. Proust, and N. E. Hussey,
Science **323**, 603 (2009).

* [14] K. Jin, N. P. Butch, K. Kirshenbaum, J. Paglione, and R. L.
Greene, Nature (London) **476**, 73 (2011). * [15] H. V. Lohneysen, A.
Rosch, M. Vojta, and P. Wolfle, Rev. Mod. Phys. **79**, 1015 (2007). *
[16] N. Doiron-Leyraud, P. Auban-Senzier, S. Rene de Cotret, C.
Bourbonnais, D. Jerome, K. Bechgaard, and L. Taillefer, Phys. Rev. B
**80**, 214531 (2009). * [17] Y. M. Dai, H. Miao, L. Y. Xing, X. C.
Wang, P. S. Wang, H. Xiao, T. Qian, P. Richard, X. G. Qiu, W. Yu, C. Q.
Jin, Z. Wang, P. D. Johnson, C. C. Homes, and H. Ding, Phys. Rev. X
**5**, 031035 (2015). * [18] R. Zhou, Z. Li, J. Yang, D. L. Sun, C. T.
Lin, and G.-Q. Zheng, Nat. Commun. **4**, 2265 (2013). * [19] J. G.
Analytis, H.-H. Kuo, R. D. McDonald, M. Wartenbe, P. M. C. Rourke, N. E.
Hussey, and I. R. Fisher, Nat. Phys. **10**, 194 (2014). * [20] T.
Shibauchi, A. Carrington, and Y. Matsuda, Annu. Rev. Condens. Matter
Phys. **5**, 113 (2014). * [21] L. Taillefer, Annu. Rev. Condens. Matter
Phys. **1**, 51 (2010). * [22] S. Sachdev and B. Keimer, Phys. Today
**64**, 29 (2011). * [23] M. Fujioka, S. J. Demholme, T. Ozaki, H.
Okazaki, K. Deguchi, S. Demura, H. Hara, T. Watanabe, H. Takeya, T.
Yamaguchi, H. Kumakura, and Y. Takano, Supercond. Sci. Technol. **26**,
085023 (2013). * [24] C. de la Cruz, Q. Huang, J. W. Lynn, Jiying Li, W.
Ratcliff II, J. L. Zarestky, H. A. Mook, G. F. Chen, J. L. Luo, N. L.
Wang, and P. Dai, Nature (London) **453**, 899 (2008). * [25] I. I.
Mazin, D. J. Singh, M. D. Johannes, and M. H. Du, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**101**, 057003 (2008). * [26] K. Kuroki, S. Onari, R. Arita, H. Usui,
Y. Tanaka, H. Kontani, and H. Aoki, Phys. Rev. Lett. **101**, 087004
(2008). * [27] H. Takahashi, K. Igawa, K. Arii, Y. Kamihara, M. Hirano,
and H. Hosono, Nature (London) **453**, 376 (2008). * [28] V. Panchal,
D. Errandonea, A. Segura, P. Rodriguez Hernandez, A. Munoz, S.
Lopez-Moreno, and M. Bettinelli, J. Appl. Phys. **110**, 043723
(2011). * [29] D. Errandonea, E. Bandiello, A. Segura, J. J. Hamlin,
Maple, P. Rodriguez-Hernandez, and A. Munoz, J. Alloys Compd. **587**,
14 (2014). * [30] H. K. Mao, B. Chen, J. Chen, K. Li, J.-F. Lin, W.
Yang, and H. Zheng, Matter Radiat. Extremes **1**, 59 (2016). * [31] A.
Mani, N. Ghosh, S. Paulraj, A. Bharathi, and C. S. Sundar, Europhys.
Lett. **87**, 17004 (2009). * [32] F. Ishikawa, N. Eguchi, M. Kodama, K.
Fujimaki, M. Einaga, A. Ohmura, A. Nakayama, A. Mitsuda, and Y. Yamada,
Phys. Rev. B **79**, 172506 (2009). * [33] E. Colombier, S. L. Bud’ko,
N. Ni, and P. C. Canfield, Phys. Rev. B **79**, 224518 (2009). * [34] T.
Yamazaki, N. Takeshita, R. Kobayashi, H. Fukazawa, Y. Kohori, K. Kihou,
C.-H. Lee, H. Kito, A. Iyo, and H. Eisaki, Phys. Rev. B **81**, 224511
(2010). * [35] S. Medvedev, T. M. McQueen, I. A. Troyan, T. Palasyuk, M.
I. Eremets, R. J. Cava, S. Naghavi, F. Casper, V. Ksenofontov, G.
Wortmann, and C. Felser, Nat. Mater. **8**, 630 (2009). * [36] L. L. Sun
_et al._, Nature (London) **483**, 67 (2012). * [37] H. Takahashi, H.
Soeda, M. Nukii, C. Kawashima, T. Nakanishi, S. Iimura, Y. Muraba, S.
Matsuishi, and H. Hosono, Sci. Rep. **5**, 7829 (2015). * [38] G.
Lamura, T. Shiroka, P. Bonfa, S. Sanna, R. De Renzi, M. Putti, N. D.
Zhigadlo, S. Katrych, R. Khasanov, and J. Karpinski, Phys. Rev. B
**91**, 024513 (2015). * [39] L. Malavasi, G. A. Artioli, C. Ritter, M.
C. Mozzati, B. Maroni, B. Pahari, and A. Caneschi, J. Am. Chem. Soc.
**132**, 2417 (2010). * [40] A. Adamski, C. Krellner, and M.
Abdel-Hafiez, Phys. Rev. B **96**, 100503(R) (2017). * [41] M. Ishizuka,
M. K. Amaya, and S. Endo, Rev. Sci. Instrum. **66**, 3307 (1995). * [42]
M. Ishizuka, Rev. Sci. Instrum. **76**, 123902 (2005). * [43] Y. Tokiwa,
S.-H. Hubner, O. Beck, H. S. Jeevan, and P. Gegenwart, Phys. Rev. B
**86**, 220505(R) (2012). * [44] A. Jesche, T. Forster, J. Spehling, M.
Nicklas, M. de Souza, R. Gumeniuk, H. Luetkens, T. Goltz, C. Krellner,
M. Lang, J. Sichelschmidt, H.-H. Klauss, and C. Geibel, Phys. Rev. B
**86**, 020501(R) (2012). * [45] M. Ishizuka, H. Manaka, and I. Yamada,
J. Phys.: Condens. Matter **18**, 2935 (2006). * [46] A. Akbari, I.
Eremin, and P. Thalmeier, Phys. Rev. B **84**, 134513 (2011). * [47] J.
Zhao, Q. Huang, C. D. L. Cruz, S. Li, J. W. Lynn, Y. Chen, M. A. Green,
G. F. Chen, G. Li, Z. Li, J. L. Luo, N. L. Wang, and P. Dai, Nat. Mater.
**7**, 953 (2008). * [48] G. F. Chen, Z. Li, D. Wu, G. Li, W. Z. Hu, J.
Dong, P. Zheng, J. L. Luo, and N. L. Wang, Phys. Rev. Lett. **100**,
247002 (2008). * [49] M. B. Maple, M. C. de Andrade, J. Herrmann, Y.
Dalichaouch, D. A. Gajewski, C. L. Seaman, R. Chau, R. Movshovich, M. C.
Aronson, and R. Osborn, J. Low Temp. Phys. **99**, 223 (1995). * [50] M.
Abdel-Hafiez, Y. J. Pu, J. Brisbois, R. Peng, D. L. Feng, D. A. Chareev,
A. V. Silhanek, C. Krellner, A. N. Vasiliev, and X.-J. Chen, Phys. Rev.
B **93**, 224508 (2016). * [51] K. Kadowaki and S. Woods, Solid State
Commun. **58**, 507 (1986).
