Systematic study of the growth-temperature dependence of structural
disorder and superconductivity in YBa2Cu3O7-8 thin films

Jinhua Ye and Keikichi Nakamura

National Research Institute for Metals, 1-2-1 Sengen, Tsukuba, Ibaraki
305, Japan

24 February 1994; revised manuscript received 31 May 1994

###### Abstract

The growth-temperature dependence of the crystal structure and
superconductivity of YBa2Cu3O7-8 thin films has been investigated
quantitatively for a series of sputter-deposited films prepared at
substrate temperatures ranging from 593 to 726 degC. X-ray diffraction
revealed that the reflection intensities of the films, especially I
(004), I (005), and I (006), change systematically with substrate
temperature. Structure analyses suggested that there is a considerable
degree of disorder between Y and Ba atoms in the structure of the thin
films deposited at lower substrate temperatures. This degree of disorder
decreases rapidly from 14 to 3

## I Introduction

There are numerous papers dealing with the dependence of the
superconducting properties of YBa2Cu3O7-8 thin films on deposition
conditions, such as target composition, substrate material, substrate
temperature, total and partial oxygen pressure, etc.1-5 Among these
conditions, substrate temperature is known as a dominant factor
controlling _T_c. Some authors have reported that thin films prepared at
higher substrate temperatures exhibit better superconductivity,3,4 and
suggested that _T_c suppression in the films prepared at lower substrate
temperatures is due to a disordered arrangement of cations, especially
of Y and Ba. Alternatively, Matijasevic _et al._3 have mentioned the
possibility of Y substitution by Ba atoms at lower oxygen pressure.
However, without systematic investigation and further structure analyses
of the thin films, there are still no substantial data supporting these
suggestions.

In a paper published previously,6 we dealt with the problem of oxygen
deficiency in YBa2Cu3O7-8 (YBCO) thin films. We observed that an YBCO
thin film that was prepared at a low substrate temperature of 580 degC
exhibited an expanded c lattice parameter and a different x-ray
diffraction pattern from the standard one. Yet the abnormality in both
the c length and x-ray intensity disappeared after heat treatment at 850
degC in flowing Ar-6

Such disordering between cations seems likely to be a unique phenomenon
that only occurs in thin films. Since thin films are prepared at
substrate temperature 200-300 degC lower than that for bulk crystal
growth, there is not sufficient mobility to attain the thermodynamically
stable state. The structures of thin films could therefore be variable,
depending on growth conditions like substrate temperature. For bulk
samples, crystals grow at high temperature (above 900 degC in YBCO) and
sufficient oxygen partial pressure, so that a thermodynamic equilibrium
state is always reached during crystal growth. The YBa2Cu3O7-8 phase is
thought to be a line compound and to have no cation solid solution.7
Although substitution of Ba by Y atoms at lower growth temperature has
been reported by Iqbal _et al._,8 no Y substitution by Ba has been
reported to our knowledge. Concerning disordering between Y and Ba,
there was a report by Van Tendeloo _et al._,9 but the phenomenon has not
been fully substantiated. This is understandable if one considers the
large difference in the cationic radii [Y, 1.02 A, Ba, 1.42 A (Ref.
[10])]. Therefore it seems difficult to observe and study
ordering-disordering phenomena with bulk crystals, although it is
believed that such studies would provide valuable information and
additional understanding of these materials.

The present work is destined to make clear whether the growth
temperature affects the crystal structure and superconductivity of the
films, and, if it does so, then what is the mechanism. We prepared a
series of thin films by controlling the substrate temperatures in the
range from 593 to 726 degC. Subsequently, we carried out quantitative
studies of the structural and superconducting properties of the thin
films. Hereafter, we will give our data proving that cation disorder
does exist in the structure of thin films prepared at lower substrate
temperatures. Furthermore, we will verify that _T_c is strongly
dependent on the substrate temperature, in agreement with the change in
the degree of disorder of the crystal structure. The relation between
the disorder and the suppression of T_(c) will also be discussed.

## II Experimental procedure

There are two methods applicable for the preparation of YBCO thin films
in our laboratory. One is radiofrequency (rf) magnetron sputtering, and
the other is molecular-beam epitaxy (MBE). Each method has its own
advantages and is used according to the research purpose. In general,
with the use of the MBE method, the T_(c)’s of the films are relatively
high (85-90 K), but the chemical compositions are extremely difficult to
control. With rf sputtering, thin films might receive serious damage
from the negative-ion bombardment during preparation, and exhibit
relatively lower T_(c)’s than those prepared using MBE, as reported in
our previous paper. [6, 11] On the other hand, with the use of rf
sputtering, deposition conditions are easy to control to the same
values. This limits the number of factors in the growth conditions
needing to be considered and makes thin films of the same chemical
composition available. Since the purpose of the present study is to
investigate the growth-temperature dependence of crystal structure and
T_(c) of YBCO thin films, it is definitely necessary to exclude the
influence of all other factors but the substrate temperature on the
structural and superconducting properties of the thin films. Also, it is
extremely important to ensure that the thin films prepared at different
growth temperatures have the same chemical composition. For the purpose,
we chose the off-axis rf magnetron sputtering method to prepare thin
films even though the T_(c)’s might not be optimized.

The deposition conditions except substrate temperature for YBCO thin
films were set the same for all the films as follows. A single target
was used and the [Y]:[Ba]:[Cu] ratio of the target was 1.05:2.00:3.85. A
polished MgO(001) single crystal (10 x 10 x 0.5 mm3) was adopted as the
substrate. The sputtering atmosphere was Ar−10

Under the above conditions, a series of thin films was prepared with the
electrical current supply to the substrate heater being controlled at
values of 5.0, 5.2, 5.25, 5.5, 6.0, 6.5, and 6.8 A. The substrate
temperatures were calibrated with a thermoelectric couple at exactly the
same conditions as for the deposition, including sputtering atmosphere,
plasma power, etc. The attachment between the thermoelectric couple and
the substrate holder was made by silver paste, in almost the same manner
as that between the MgO substrate and the substrate holder. We consider
that the thermoelectric couple temperature thus measured could represent
the substrate temperature, and in the present paper we regard the
substrate temperature as the growth temperature of the films.
Corresponding to each current value at which thin films were prepared,
the substrate temperatures were measured to be 593, 608, 612, 633, 670,
705, and 726 degC. Depositions at temperatures lower or higher than this
range were also tried. However, in our experiments, below the
temperature of 593 degC, not only c-axis- but also a-axis-oriented films
grow on the MgO substrate. This results in overlapping x-ray diffraction
patterns and makes structure analyses difficult. On the other hand, at
substrate temperatures higher than 726 degC, YBCO films fail to deposit
homogeneously, or even decompose. For this reason, only thin films
prepared in the temperature range of 593 to 726 degC were used for the
present study.

Using these thin films, dependence of the chemical, crystallographic,
and superconducting properties on the growth temperature was
investigated with the following methods.

(1) The Rutherford backscattering (RBS) method was used to analyze the
chemical composition of the thin films. The irradiation was 2.8 MeV
He²⁺.

(2) X-ray diffraction experiments were carried out on a JDX-3500
rotating-anode diffractometer. Graphite-monochromatized Cu Kα radiation
(λ = 1.541 78 A) was used. The divergence slit was set at
$\frac{1}{16}^{\circ}$ to ensure that the incident beam was completely
diffracted by the thin film of limited size (10 x 10 mm2) even at a very
low 2th angle . The diffraction intensities in the range 2th < 65deg
were collected in a 2th-th step-scan mode, with the step interval
0.01deg and scan time at each step 0.2 s.

(3) Electrical resistivities were measured with the four-probe dc
method. The current applied was 0.1 mA.

## III Results and discussion

### Chemical compositions of the films

Figure 1 shows the results of the RBS composition analysis, where
circles show the ratio [Ba]/[Y], and squares show [Cu]/([Y] + [Ba]) for
films prepared at various substrate temperatures. The chemical
compositions

Figure 1: Chemical compositions of the thin films prepared at different
substrate temperatures. Circles and squares show atomic ratios of
[Ba]/[Y] and [Cu]/([Y] + [Ba]), which were obtained using RBS analysis.

of the films are all found to be close to 1:2:3 stoichiometry, and no
obvious substrate-temperature dependence of the chemical composition can
be observed. The slight deviations of some films from the stoichiometry
are suggested to be mostly caused by less surface smoothness or the
relatively large thickness (about 1500 A) of the films, which resulted
in an irregular shape of the backscattered spectrum or a slight overlap
of the spectrum, leading to decrease in the accuracy of the RBS
composition analysis. In any case, it seems proper to consider that the
chemical compositions of the thin films prepared by us do not depend on
the substrate temperature in the range studied here. This means that all
the phenomena observed in these films, which will be described
hereafter, are not caused by chemical composition changes in the films.

### Epitaxies and c lattice parameters

Figure 2 shows several typical x-ray diffraction patterns of the YBCO
films prepared at different substrate temperatures. For clarity, the
intensity of each pattern was normalized by its 005 reflection, and the
horizontal axes (2_th_) of each pattern were shifted about 1.0deg from
each other. It is obvious that films prepared at the temperature range
of the present research are perfectly _c_-axis-oriented epitaxial films,
except for one film prepared at the substrate temperature of 593 degC,
where a small portion of _a_-axis-oriented grains appears along with the
majority of the _c_-axis-oriented grains. In all the thin films, no
reflection peak belonging to crystals other than YBa2Cu3O7-8 was
detected, indicating that there is no significant segregation of
impurity materials composed of the excess Y, Ba, and Cu atoms.

By fitting individual c values calculated from 2_th_ Bragg angles of the
00l reflections as a function of (1/sin_th_+1/_th_)cos2_th_/2 to reduce
the evaluation error caused by the geometry of the sample setting inside
the diffractometer, Fig. 3 was drawn to show the substrate-temperature
dependence of the c lattice parameters of the as-grown thin films. It is
obvious that the c lattice parameters expand considerably if the films
are prepared at lower substrate temperatures. With increase of the
substrate temperature, the c parameters decrease quickly in the range of
593 to 630 degC, and then decrease slowly at higher substrate
temperatures. At the highest temperature of the present research range,
the as-grown films showed the smallest c length, but still longer than
11.68 A, the c value of bulk YBa2Cu3O7-8 crystals. The expansion in c of
the films prepared at higher temperatures is considered to come from
crystallographic defects introduced with the lattice mismatch,
deposition faults, etc. Oxygen deficiency is not the cause, as can be
understood from the x-ray diffraction patterns of the as-grown and
post-annealed films, in the way reported in a previous paper.6

### Crystal structures of the films

It is usual that, in thin films, the intensities of the reflections
diffracted at very low 2_th_ Bragg angle have a large contribution from
the matrix of the surface layers, owing to the effect of x-ray
absorption. These reflections are also sensitive to the geometry of the
sample setting inside the diffractometer. As a result, the intensities
of these reflections are difficult to measure accurately. With increase
in the 2_th_ Bragg angle, however, the influences of surface conditions
and setting geometry on the reflection intensities become slighter. Thus
an accurate measurement of the reflection intensities at high Bragg
angles becomes possible and discussion of them is meaningful. Here, we
concentrate our attention on the intensities of the 004, 005, 006, and
007 reflections. From Fig. 2, one can see that the intensities of the
004 and 006 reflections varied clearly and systematically among the
films prepared at different substrate temperatures, while the 007
reflection changes very little.

To investigate the intensity changes quantitatively, we calculated the
integrated intensity _I_(00_l_) further by summing up the counts of all
the scan steps of the reflection

Figure 3: Substrate-temperature dependence of the as-grown c lattice
parameters of the films.

Figure 2: Typical x-ray diffraction patterns of the as-grown thin films
prepared at controlled substrate temperatures. 2_θ_ values of the
patterns were shifted 1° from each other for clarity, and intensities
were normalized by their 005 reflections. The substrate temperatures of
the films corresponding to the five patterns from left to right are 593,
608, 612, 633, and 705 °C, respectively.

peaks after subtracting backgrounds. Figures 4(a) and 4(b) show the
substrate-temperature dependence of the intensity ratios of the two most
significantly varying reflections, [_I_(004)/_I_(005)] x20 and
_I_(006)/(005), respectively. It can be seen that both of the values
decrease rapidly with increase in the substrate temperature up to 630
degC, and then remain almost constant in the temperature range higher
than 630 degC.

Since all the thin films were prepared under the same sputtering
conditions except substrate temperature, the intensity variations of the
films must imply something important. According to our experience,6,11
films prepared at an atmosphere of 2 Pa Ar-10

On the other hand, the RBS composition analysis showed that the chemical
compositions of the films do not have any systematic variation with
substrate temperature, implying that the intensity changes are not due
to chemical-composition change in the films. This was also verified
using several low-substrate-temperature-prepared films.12 The films were
annealed at 850 degC for 30 min in flowing Ar-8

Based on the above considerations, we suggest that the origin of the
abnormality in the reflection intensities is structural change of the
films and that the change could easily be recovered through heat
treatment. Such a structural change is most probably of the
ordered-disordered arrangement of the atoms in the structure. In YBCO
thin films, it might occur among Cu, Y, and Ba atoms at four cation
positions Cu(1), Cu(2), Y, and Ba, as shown in Fig. 5. Moreover, since
the 1:2:3 stoichiometry was preserved in films prepared at different
temperatures, only a mutual substitution of atoms seems likely. In a
previously published paper,6 we have reported the oxygen-content
dependence of the structural parameters in YBCO thin films, and
demonstrated that quantitative structure analyses of the thin films is
possible if variables are limited. With the same considerations, to
understand what the intensity variations mean, we carried out structure
analyses on the seven films prepared at different substrate
temperatures, using the structure factors of the films after applying
Lorentz polarization and absorption corrections to the integrated
intensities _I_(00_I_) (the 001 reflection was ruled out for lack of
accuracy).

Figure 4: Substrate-temperature dependence of ratios of the reflection
intensities. (a) is for _I_(004)/_I_(005), multiplied by 20, and (b) for
_I_(006)/_I_(005).

Figure 5: Schematic structure of the orthorhombic phase of
YBa₂Cu₃O⁷ ⁻ ⁸.

The least-squares refinements[13] were carried out using various model
structures assuming disordering among the three kinds of cations
(Cu,Y,Ba) at four crystallographic sites [Cu(1),Cu(2),Y,Ba]. For
convenience of the structure analyses, the slight deviations in the
chemical compositions of the films from 1:2:3 stoichiometry were not
considered. The results of the least-squares calculation told us that
calculated structure factors based on a model of mutual substitution
between Y and Ba atoms at Y and Ba sites fitted the observed structure
factors best with the fewest variable parameters. To obtain a
quantitative understanding of the disordering between Y and Ba atoms, we
performed further calculations as follows. By imaging two typical model
structures with ordered and completely disordered arrangements of Y and
Ba atoms at the two crystallographic sites, the z positional parameters
of Cu(2) and Ba sites in a partially disordered structure should be
approximately given by

z(site) = z_(order)(site) − [G_(order)(Ba) − G(Ba)]S(site) ,

where

$$S(\text{site}) = \frac{z_{\text{order}}(\text{site}) - z_{\text{disorder}}(\text{site})}{G_{\text{order}}(\text{Ba}) - G_{\text{disorder}}(\text{Ba})}\text{,}$$

and _z_(site) is the z positional parameter of the Ba or Cu(2) site in
the partially disordered structure, _z_order(site) is the z positional
parameter of the Ba or Cu(2) site in the ordered structure,
_z_disorder(site) is the z positional parameter of the Ba or Cu(2) site
in the completely disordered structure, _G_(Ba) is the occupational
parameter of the Ba atom at the Ba site in the partially disordered
structure, _G_order(Ba) is the occupational parameter of the Ba atom at
the Ba site in the ordered structure, and _G_disorder(Ba) is the
occupational parameter of the Ba atom at the Ba site in the completely
disordered structure.

Clearly, in the ordered structure, _G_order(Ba) is 1.0, while in the
completely disordered structure, _G_disorder(Ba) must be 0.6667 for the
chemical composition ([Y]:[Ba] = 1:2) of the films. _z_order(Ba) =
0.1843 and _z_order(Cu(2)] = 0.3556 were adopted according to Jorgenson
_et al._[14] With the increase in the degree of disorder, the difference
between the Ba-containing cube and the Y-containing cube becomes less
significant, and the z positional parameters of the Ba and Cu(2) sites
decrease simultaneously. In the completely disordered structure, there
will finally be no difference among the three cation-centered cubes.
Therefore, _z_disorder(Ba) and _z_disorder[Cu(2)] must be 0.1667 and
0.3333, respectively. Model structures with different assumed _G_(Ba)
and the calculated _z_(Ba) and _z_[Cu(2)] were used for the
least-squares refinements. The temperature factors of the cations were
constrained to 1.2, 2.0, 1.4, and 1.6 for Y, Ba, Cu(1), and Cu(2) sites,
larger than those published for bulk crystals, considering the
imperfections of the thin films compared to the bulk crystals. Other
structural parameters were referred to the orthorhombic phase.[14] Only
the scale factors were variable in the least-squares cycles.

Figure 6 shows two typical results of the structure refinements, where
open circles are those of the film prepared at a low substrate
temperature (593 degC), and solid circles are those of the film prepared
at a high substrate temperature (705 degC). In the figure, the
horizontal axis represents the degree of disorder of the Y site, i.e.,
the percentage of the Y site substituted by Ba atoms. The vertical axis
is R, a factor showing the consistency between the observed structure
factors and the calculated ones based on the model structure used in the
least-squares refinements. From the figure, one can see that, for the
film prepared at low temperature, a model structure with 14

Similarly, using this ordering-disordering model between Y and Ba atoms,
structure analyses were performed for the seven thin films prepared at
different substrate temperatures. Figure 7 shows the
substrate-temperature dependence of the degree of disorder of the Y site
in the films. We see that, along the increase in the

Figure 6: Results of structure analyses of two typical films prepared at
593 °C (open circles) and 705 °C (solid circles).

Figure 7: Substrate-temperature dependence of the degree of disorder of
the structure (percentage of Y site occupied by Ba atoms).

substrate temperatures from 593 to 630 degC, the degree of disorder of Y
and Ba atoms decreases rapidly from 14

As mentioned previously, disordering between Y and Ba atoms has not been
reported in YBa2Cu3O7-b bulk samples. However, the phenomenon itself
seems quite intuitive and reasonable, if we consider the mechanism of
thin-film preparation. According to recent research using reflection
high-energy electron diffraction [15] (RHEED) and scanning tunneling
microscopy [16] (STM), the _c_-axis-oriented films grow by a
terraced-island growth mechanism, and the step heights of the flat
terrace are one unit or multiples of the _c_-axis length. This suggests
that, to form an ordered structure in YBCO thin films, not only surface
diffusion, but also diffusion of the cations along the growth direction
within one unit-cell length is necessary.

At lower temperature, YBCO films tend to grow in _a_-axis orientation,
as reported by many authors. This is natural since, in such a case, all
the cation sites are exposed to the surface and only surface migration
is necessary to form an ordered structure. The activation energy for the
surface migration should be smaller than for three-dimensional bulk
diffusion. At higher temperature, the _c_-axis-oriented film grows
predominantly, because it has less surface energy than the
_a_-axis-oriented film, as can be understood from the terraced-island
growth of the _c_-axis-oriented film. However, in the lower temperature
range of this _c_-axis-oriented growth, some Y and Ba atoms might occupy
irregular positions since both ions form the perovskite structure with
Cu ions in the YBCO structure, in spite of the relatively large
difference between the Y and Ba cationic radii and different valence (+3
and +2). To change their irregular positions, some excess activation
energy and vacancies through which cations migrate to their regular
positions would be needed. But the energy necessary to activate such
migration could not be supplied at these lower substrate temperatures,
as verified in our post annealing experiments. [12] The disordered
arrangements are therefore frozen into the structure during growth. As a
result, at relatively lower growth temperature, a considerable amount of
mislocation of Y and Ba atoms (or degree of disorder) exists in thin
films. With increase in substrate temperature, the rate of migration
increases, leading to a rapid decrease in the degree of disorder. At
higher substrate temperatures (here, above 630 degC), the mobility of
the atoms might be sufficient to form films in a nearly completely
ordered structure.

It is worth indicating that disordering between Y and Ba atoms may
destroy the local charge balance (although the total cation charge
balance was kept for the thin films) and make the YBCO structure
unstable. This might account for the fact that only partial disordering
(maximum about 14

### Superconductivity

Figure 8 shows the results of electrical-resistivity measurements, with
open circles and solid circles representing onset and zero point of the
critical temperatures, respectively. It can be seen that critical
temperatures, especially zero-point temperatures, depend strongly on the
substrate temperature. At temperatures lower than 630 degC, T_(c)
increases quickly with increase in substrate temperature. However, at
higher temperatures, T_(c) increases very slightly and finally saturates
at a certain value.

As introduced in the experimental section, to obtain thin films of the
same chemical composition and limit the number of factors to be
considered in the present study, we prepared all the thin films using
the sputtering method under the same deposition conditions except for
the substrate temperature. Owing to the details of the sputtering
mechanism itself, thin films might receive serious damage from the
negative-ion bombardment during preparation. As a result, the _T__c_’s
of the films are relatively lower than those prepared using MBE, as
reported in our previous paper. [6, 11] Although the _T__c_’s of the
present films are not so high in general, the dependence of T_(c) on
growth temperature, as shown in Fig. 8, is clear enough to show the
intrinsic relationship of the two parameters.

Furthermore, if one compares the temperature dependences of the
structural and superconducting properties

Figure 8: Substrate-temperature dependence of T_(c) with open circles
and solid circles representing onset and zero-point critical
temperatures, respectively.

of the films, which were shown in Figs. 7 and 8, one can see that the
degree of disorder and T_(c) vary simultaneously with the substrate
temperature. Such a relationship among structure, T_(c), and growth
temperature seems also to exist in thin films prepared using other
methods, at least the MBE method. There is an interesting experiment
where, during a deposition procedure using MBE, the MgO(100) substrate
attached to the holder by silver paste accidentally became partially
detached from the holder. This means that the substrate temperature of
the film changed continuously from one side to the other during
deposition. Structure analyses of this film indicated that the degree of
disorder of the structure is position dependent, and
electrical-resistivity measurements revealed that the T_(c) is also
position dependent. Although a quantitative understanding of the
relationship has not been reached due to the difficulty in calibrating
substrate temperatures in this case, the variations of the disordering
degree and T_(c) with substrate temperature are similar to those
observed in the sputter-deposited films. Results of studies on these
films indicate that there is an intrinsic relationship between the
cationic disorder of the structure and the T_(c) value in YBCO films.

The critical temperature T_(c) is known to depend strongly on the hole
carrier density, which can be varied by charge compensation or oxygen
nonstoichiometry.17 In the present research, 1:2:3 stoichiometry was
preserved in all the films prepared at different substrate temperatures,
which crystallized in the structures with different degrees of disorder.
Therefore, T_(c) suppression related to a change in hole carrier density
due to charge compensation is unlikely. Similarly, change in oxygen
content also seems unlikely because of the balance in the total cation
charge. However, even if the total cation charge balance was kept, the
local charge balance of the Y- and Ba-containing units might be
destroyed by substitution between Y and Ba, which are different in
valence. This may change the maximum oxygen content in YBa2Cu3O7-b,
leading to a change in hole carrier density and depressing T_(c). The
reported lower T_(c) and larger oxygen content in LaBa2Cu3O7-b,18 where
La and Ba are considered partially disordered, might be another fact
supporting the above suggestion. The change in oxygen content
accompanying the Y-Ba substitution, if it exists, could not be recovered
easily through heat treatment at temperatures around or lower than 600
degC, as in ordered YBCO thin films.4,6

Besides hole carrier density, T_(c) also depends on local electronic
properties, as illustrated by Miceli _et al._19 for the oxides
YBa2Cu3-xCo3O7-b. As described in the previous section, in the structure
of YBCO, structural disorder results in a decrease in size of the
Ba-containing cube and increase in size of the Y-containing cube. The
structural parameters including bond lengths of Cu(1)-O and Cu(2)-O must
then vary with the structural disorder. In addition to the possible
change in oxygen content due to destruction in local charge balance,
such a structural change would also certainly cause a change in the
local electronic properties, especially to modify the hybridization of
the Cu orbitals, resulting in the depression in T_(c).

The other possibility is that not the structural disorder itself, but
the defects accompanying the structural disorder, affect T_(c). Since
cation disorder would certainly create a density of defects in the
crystal, as can be understood from the observed expansion in c lattice
parameters, crystallographic defects could also be considered as a
candidate for depressing T_(c). However, it is not clear what kind of
defects exist and how the defects would locally modulate the
superconducting order parameter and depress T_(c).

T_(c) suppression has been observed by Shaw _et al._20 in high-density
sintered YBa2Cu3O7-b bulk materials. They attributed the reduced T_(c)
to carbon retention of about 1 wt

It should be added here that, in the present study, thin films prepared
at lower substrate temperatures decreased their T_(c) very quickly with
the passing of time, while those prepared at higher temperatures keep
their _T__c_’s even after long storage (longer than six months) in air.
This may be associated with the large amounts of defects introduced with
the cation disorder in these low-temperature-prepared films. Such thin
films of poor degree of structural order and low T_(c), prepared at
lower substrate temperatures, can be improved in both structure and
T_(c) through an annealing treatment at high temperature, as will be
detailed in a later publication.12

## IV Conclusions

Through a systematic investigation of a series of YBCO thin films with
the approximate 1:2:3 chemical stoichiometry, which were prepared at the
same deposition parameters except growth temperature, two overall
conclusions can be drawn as follows.

First, the crystal structure of the YBCO thin films depends on the
growth temperature. At lower temperature, the mobility of the cations
might not be high enough to make them reach their regular positions,
resulting in the freezing of a considerable degree of disorder between Y
and Ba atoms. With increasing growth temperature from 593 to 630 degC,
the mobility of the atoms increases exponentially, leading to a rapid
decrease in the degree of disorder. At higher growth temperatures, there
is enough mobility of atoms to form a completely ordered structure.

Second, the superconducting transition temperatures of the thin films
depend on the growth temperature. With increasing growth temperature,
T_(c) increases from a very low value to an optimized value, responding
to the recovery of the disordered structure. Although the mechanism
depressing T_(c) is not clear yet, it is undoubtedly the structural
disorder itself, or defects accompanying the freezing of cation
disordering, that depresses T_(c). The depression of zero-point T_(c) is
particularly serious in YBCO thin films.

###### Acknowledgements.

The authors wish to thank Dr. K. Kadowaki, Dr. T. Hatano, and Dr. M.
Yata, for valuable discussions. We are also grateful to A. Ishii for his
assistance in RBS analysis. One of us (J. Ye) wishes to thank Professor
M. Tokonami and Dr. Q. Huang for encouragement.

## References

* [1] C. B. Eom, J. Z. Sun, B. M. Lairson, S. K. Streiffer, A. F.
Marshall, K. Yamamoto, S. M. Anlage, J. C. Bravman, and T. H. Geballe,
Physica C **171**, 354 (1990). * [2] R. H. Hammond and R. Bormann,
Physica C **162-164**, 703 (1989). * [3] O. Michikami, M. Asahi, and H.
Asano, Jpn. J. Appl. Phys. **28**, L448 (1989). * [4] H. J. Chang, Y.
Watanabe, Y. Doshida, K. Shimizu, Y. Okamoto, R. Akihama, and J. T.
Song, Jpn. J. Appl. Phys. **29**, L2207 (1990). * [5] V. Matijasevic, P.
Rosenthal, K. Shinohara, A. F. Marshall, R. H. Hammond, and M. R.
Beasley, J. Mater. Res. **6**, 682 (1991). * [6] J. Ye and K. Nakamura,
Phys. Rev. B **48**, 7554 (1993). * [7] R. Beyers and T. M. Shaw, in
_Solid State Physics: Advances in Research and Applications_, edited by
H. Ehrenreich and D. Turnbull (Academic, New York, 1989), Vol. 42. * [8]
Z. Iqbal, F. Reidinger, A. Bose, N. Cipollini, T. J. Taylor, H.
Eckhardt, B. L. Ramakrishna, and E. W. Ong, Nature **331**, 326
(1988). * [9] G. Van. Tendeloo, H. W. Zandbergen, T. Okabe, and S.
Amelinckx, Solid State Commun. **63**, 969 (1987). * [10] R. D. Shannon,
Acta Crystallogr. Sect. A **32**, 751 (1976). * [11] K. Nakamura, J. Ye,
and A. Ishii, Physica C **213**, 1 (1993). * [12] Y. Ye and K. Nakamura
(unpublished). * [13] L. W. Finger, Carnegie Inst. Washington Yearb.
**67**, 216 (1969). * [14] J. D. Jorgensen, B. W. Veal, A. P. Paulikas,
L. J. Nowicki, G. W. Crabtree, H. Claus, and W. K. Kwok, Phys. Rev. B
**41**, 1863 (1990). * [15] T. Terashima, Y. Bando, K. Iijima, K.
Yamamoto, K. Hirata, K. Hayashi, K. Kamigaki, and H. Terauchi, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **65**, 2684 (1990). * [16] D. P. Norton, D. H. Lowndes,
X.-Y. Zheng, S. Zhu, and R. J. Warmack, Phys. Rev. B **44**, 9760
(1991). * [17] Y. Tokura, J. B. Torrance, T. C. Huang, and A. I. Nazzal,
Phys. Rev. B **38**, 7156 (1988). * [18] A. Sequeira, H. Rajagopal, L.
Ganapathi, and C. N. R. Rao, J. Solid State Chem. **76**, 235 (1988). *
[19] P. F. Miceli, J. M. Tarascon, L. H. Greene, P. Barboux, F. J.
Rotella, and J. D. Jorgensen, Phys. Rev. B **37**, 5932 (1988). * [20]
T. M. Shaw, D. Dimos, P. E. Batson, A. G. Schrott, D. R. Clarke, and P.
R. Duncombe, J. Mater. Res. **5**, 1176 (1990).
