# Zero-resistance superconducting phase in BaFe₂As₂ under high pressure

Fumihiro Ishikawa

Naoya Eguchi

Michihiro Kodama

Koji Fujimaki

Mari Einaga

Ayako Ohmura

Atsuko Nakayama

Akihiro Mitsuda

Yuh Yamada

Graduate School of Science and Technology, Niigata University, Niigata
950-2181, Japan Department of Physics, Niigata University, Niigata
950-2181, Japan Center for Transdisciplinary Research, Niigata
University, Niigata 950-2181, Japan

Center for Transdisciplinary Research, Niigata University, Niigata
950-2181, Japan

Center of Physics, Kyushu University, Fukuoka 812-8581, Japan

Department of Physics, Kyushu University, Fukuoka 812-8581, Japan
superconducting transition, with zero resistance, appears at 3.0 GPa, as
shown in Figs. 2(a) and 2(b). At ambient pressure, an anomaly due to the
SDW transition [3] appears at around $T_{\rm SDW}$=134 K, which is
derived from the peak of the temperature derivative of resistivity,
dp/dT (see the inset in Fig. 3). This temperature agrees well with the
value of 131 K reported by Fukazawa _et al._[6] At increased pressure of
2.0 GPa, the anomaly becomes broader and $T_{\rm SDW}$ decreases to 96
K. At 3.0 GPa, the superconducting transition with zero resistance state
occurs at T_(c)=35 K, which is defined as the temperature of the onset
of superconductivity. The superconducting transition is very sharp
between 3.0 and 5.0 GPa, as shown in Figs. 2(b) and 2(c); the difference
between T_(c) and the temperature where zero resistance state appears
$T_{c\sim\rm zero}$, is less than 5 K at 3.0 GPa. With increasing
pressure, the transition temperature decreases monotonically, and the
difference between T_(c) and $T_{c\sim\rm zero}$ increases. At pressures
above 7.5 GPa, no clear transition is observed and the zero resistance
state disappears, as shown in Fig. 2(d). In more increased pressures of
up to 9.0 GPa, $T_{c\sim\rm zero}$ is not observed even at the lowest
temperature in the present study, which is about 3 K. These results
suggest that a pressure of 3.0 GPa induces the superconducting
transition in BaFe₂As₂, whereas higher pressures simply suppress
superconductivity. It is noted that the appearance of the
superconductivity and the disappearance of the anomaly due to the SDW
transition occur simultaneously at 3.0 GPa, as shown in Fig. 2(a). At
2.0 GPa, the SDW anomaly at 96 K and the resistivity drop at 35 K are
observed; however, no zero resistance state appears, even at 3 K. Thus,
the suppression of the SDW state is necessary for the appearance of the
superconducting state with zero resistance in BaFe₂As₂.

Magnetization measurements of BaFe₂As₂ under high pressures indicate
that the superconducting transition occurs gradually with increasing
pressure, while the superconducting transition in SrFe₂As₂ occurs
abruptly, accompanied by a maximum in superconducting temperature. [5]
The present results for the pressure dependence of T_(c) for BaFe₂As₂
are similar to those for SrFe₂As₂ (Ref. 5) and CaFe₂As₂ (Ref. 8) in
terms of the appearance of superconductivity; the onset of
superconductivity occurs abruptly at a critical pressure.

The pressure dependences of T_(c), $T_{c\sim\rm zero}$, and
$T_{\rm SDW}$ are presented in Fig. 3. T_(c) and $T_{c\sim\rm zero}$
decrease with increasing pressure, and both the SDW anomaly and
superconductivity are suppressed by pressure. The pressure dependence of
T_(c) shown in Fig. 3 is very similar to that for the characteristic
temperature of polycrystalline BaFe₂As₂. [6] However, for the
polycrystalline sample, the resistivity drops sharply at the
characteristic temperature, which probably corresponds to T_(c), at the
pressure of 13.0 GPa; the difference between T_(c) and
$T_{c\sim\rm zero}$ is small even in the pressures above 9 GPa.
Moreover, the pressure dependence of T_(c) obtained from the
magnetization measurements up to the pressure of 6 GPa (Ref. 5) shows
little change in T_(c) between 5 and 6 GPa. Thus, T_(c) and
$T_{c\sim\rm zero}$ behavior shown in Fig. 3 is not consistent with the
previous reports, [5] especially in high-pressure region above 5 GPa.

Figure 3: (Color online) T-P phase diagram of BaFe₂As₂ determined from
resistivity anomalies under high pressure. Inset shows dp/dT vs T in
BaFe₂As₂ under high pressure. Arrows indicate the SDW anomaly derived
from the peak of dp/dT.

Figure 2: (Color online) Temperature T dependence of the resistivity ρ
in BaFe₂As₂ under pressure P; (a) below 300 K and at 0≤P≤9.0 GPa, and
below 50 K at (b) 2.0≤P≤4.5 GPa, (c)5.0 ≤P≤7.0 GPa, and (d) 7.5≤P≤9.0
GPa. Arrows indicate the SDW transition temperature derived from the
peak of the temperature derivative of resistivity, dp/dT.

Several authors reported the effect of pressure on the superconductivity
of the carrier-doped BaFe_(2 − x)Co_(x)As₂ and Ba_(1 − x)K_(x)Fe₂As₂
systems [13, 14]. Resistivity measurements of BaFe_(1.92)Co_(0.08)As₂
under high pressures show that the SDW transition is not completely
suppressed up to 2.5 GPa and T_(c) increases slightly with increasing
pressure [13]. Moreover, T_(c) is almost independent of pressure in
BaFe_(1.8)Co_(0.2)As₂, which shows no anomaly due to the SDW transition
[13]. In contrast, an opposite effect of pressure on T_(c) was reported
for the Ba_(1 − x)K_(x)Fe₂As₂ system; T_(c) decreases with increasing
pressure [14]. Resistivity measurements of Ba_(1 − x)K_(x)Fe₂As₂ showed
that the SDW state is suppressed by K doping. Thus, in the BaFe₂As₂ and
related systems, T_(c) decreases with increasing pressure when the SDW
transition is completely suppressed by pressure or doping. Consequently,
T_(c) on these systems under high pressure depends on the competition
between two kinds of pressure effects on superconductivity: direct
suppression effect and enhancement effect via suppression of the SDW
state. These results may support such a scenario as follows: (1) the
superconductivity of BaFe₂As₂ and related systems is suppressed by the
SDW state. (2) The suppression of the SDW state by application of
pressure results in onset of the superconductivity. (3) Further increase
in pressure suppresses the superconductivity after the SDW state is
completely suppressed.

In summary, a single-crystalline sample of BaFe₂As₂ was prepared by
high-pressure synthesis using a cubic-anvil-type apparatus, and the
temperature dependence of resistivity was measured under high pressures
up to 9.0 GPa. Application of 3.0 GPa pressure suppresses the SDW
transition and induces superconductivity with the zero resistance state
at T_(c) =35 K. T_(c) decreases monotonically with increasing pressure,
and no clear transition is observed above 7.5 GPa. The appearance of the
superconductivity and the disappearance of the SDW transition anomaly
occur simultaneously at a pressure of 3.0 GPa. The effect of pressure
suppresses both the SDW state and superconductivity in BaFe₂As₂.

The authors wish to thank T. C. Ozawa and Y. Ono for valuable
discussions and advice. This research was partially supported by a
Grant-in-Aid for Scientific Research from the Ministry of Education,
Science, Sports and Culture of Japan, and a Grant for Promotion of the
Niigata University Research Projects.

## References

* [*] "fumihiro@phys.sc.niigata-u.ac.jp * [1] Y. Kamihara, T. Watanabe,
M. Hirano, and H. Hosono, J. Am. Chem. Soc. **130**, 3296 (2008). * [2]
M. Rotter, M. Tegel, and D. Johrendt, Phys. Rev. Lett. **101**, 107006
(2008). * [3] M. Rotter, M. Tegel, D. Johrendt, I. Schellenberg, W.
Hermes, and R. Pottgen, Phys. Rev. B **78**, 020503(R) (2008). * [4] Q.
Huang, Y. Qiu, W. Bao, M. A. Green, J. W. Lynn, Y. C. Gasparovic, T. Wu,
G. Wu, and X. H. Chen, Phys. Rev. Lett. **101**, 257003 (2008). * [5] P.
L. Alireza, Y. T. C. Ko, J. Gillett, C. M. Petrone, J. M. Cole, G. G.
Lonzarich, and S. E. Sebastian, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter **21**, 012208
(2009). * [6] H. Fukazawa, N. Takeshita, T. Yamazaki, K. Kondo, K.
Hirayama, Y. Kohori, K. Miyazawa, H. Kito, H. Eisaki, and A. Iyo, J.
Phys. Soc. Jpn. **77**, 105004 (2008). * [7] H. Kotegawa, H. Sugawara,
and H. Tou, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **78**, 013709 (2008). * [8] M. S.
Torikachvili, S. L. Bud’ko, N. Ni, and P. C. Canfield, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**101**, 057006 (2008). * [9] T. Park, E. Park, H. Lee, T. Klimczuk, E.
D. Bauer, F. Ronning, and J. D. Thompson, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter
**20**, 322204 (2008). * [10] K. Igawa, H. Okada, H. Takahashi, S.
Matsuishi, Y. Kamihara, M. Hirano, H. Hosono, K. Matsubayashi, and Y.
Uwatoko, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **78**, 025001 (2009). * [11] T. Nakanishi,
N. Takeshita, and N. Mori, Rev. Sci. Instrum. **73**, 1828 (2002). *
[12] F. Ishikawa, K. Fukuda, S. Sekiya, A. Kaeriyama, Y. Yamada, and A.
Matsushita, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **76**, Suppl. A, 92 (2007). * [13] K.
Ahilan, J. Balasubramaniam, F. L. Ning, T. Imai, A. S. Sefat, R. Jin, M.
A. McGuire, B. C. Sales, and D. Mandrus, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter
**20**, 472201 (2008). * [14] M. S. Torikachvili, S. L. Bud’ko, N. Ni,
and P. C. Canfield, Phys. Rev. B **78**, 104527 (2008).
