Pseudogap in electron-doped superconducting Sm_(2 − x)Ce_(x)CuO_(4 − δ)
by interlayer magnetotransport

Tsuyoshi Kawakami,* Takasada Shibauchi,Yuhki Terao, and Minoru Suzuki

Department of Electronic Science and Engineering, Kyoto University,
Kyotodiagaku-Katsura, Nishikyo-ku, Kyoto 615-8510, Japan

Received 26 December 2005; revised manuscript received 6 September 2006;
published 30 October 2006

###### Abstract

c-axis interlayer magnetoresistivity is measured for an electron-doped
(n-type) superconducting cuprate Sm_(2 − x)Ce_(x)CuO_(4 − δ) with x =
0.14−0.16 using 30 nm thick small mesa structures. A systematic doping
dependence is observed in the negative interlayer magnetoresistance (MR)
component, from which the pseudogap onset temperature T^(*) is
determined as the negative MR appearance temperature. For a doping level
close to the phase boundary between superconductivity and
antiferromagnetism, a T^(*) of 48 K is observed. It is also found that
T^(*) decreases systematically with increasing x but is still higher
than T_(c). For all the doping levels, the result represents features
characteristic of hole-doped (p-type) cuprates in the overdoped region,
suggesting that the phase diagrams for the pseudogap are primarily
similar for both the n- and p-type cuprates.

doi: 10.1103/PhysRevB.74.144520 144520 144520 10.1103/PhysRevB.74.144520
144520 tence of the epitaxial stacking impurity phase,[17] which
nucleates during the annealing process and hinders the accurate
measurements of the intrinsic ρ_(c). In order to circumvent this
problem, we have fabricated small and thin mesa structures in which the
impurity phase is absent. Using these small and thin mesa structures
with various doping levels, we have measured the interlayer
magnetotransport for the elucidation of the pseudogap in the n-type SCCO
system. From the negative MR component observed, it is found that T^(*)
decreases linearly with the carrier doping level, while it keeps a value
greater than T_(c) in the whole x range observed. This finding
demonstrates a similarity of the phase diagram between the p-type
cuprates and the n-type SCCO system in the overdoped regime.

## II II. Experiment

SCCO single crystals were grown by the self-flux method[18, 19] with a
crucible-turnover technique to remove the solvent. We obtained single
crystal plates 1−2 mm long and ∼1 mm wide with flux-free shiny surfaces.
As-grown crystals were annealed in flowing Ar at 945 ^(∘)C for 15 h. The
Ce concentration x was determined by energy dispersive x-ray
spectroscopy analysis. In the analysis, more than six different points
on a crystal surface were probed to give an averaged value. The
analytical error for the value of x is less than 0.005. Using crystals
with various x, small and thin mesa structures were fabricated on top of
crystal surfaces with a standard photolithography and Ar ion milling
technique.[15] From these mesas, we employed four samples with different
x of ∼0.140, 0.143, 0.150, and 0.156. These samples were labeled from A
to D in order of increasing x. The mesas are approximately 2×10 μm² in
horizontal area and 30 nm in height with two electrodes on the top. The
mesa thickness is much smaller than several hundred nm, a typical
separation of the secondary phase stacking layers of 4−8 nm in
thickness.[17] Because of a large resistivity anisotropy of ∼10⁴ for
SCCO crystals, the four electrode configuration as illustrated in Fig. 1
is almost sufficient to provide intrinsic values for ρ_(c). The error
due to the dimensions is less than 5

## III III. Results

Figure 1 shows the T dependence of ρ_(c) for samples A-D in the absence
of a magnetic field. For all the samples, ρ_(c) exhibits metallic T
dependence with the residual resistivity ratio more than twice that of
SCCO bulk single crystals. The ρ_(c) of the mesas are less than 1/3 of
that of the bulk crystals at low temperatures. This result demonstrates
that the epitaxial secondary phase is absent in these samples. It is
clearly seen in Fig. 1 that both T_(c) and ρ_(c) decrease with
increasing x. The residual resistance is also reduced by a factor of
∼0.5 with increasing doping from sample A-D. For sample D, the ρ_(c)-T
curve just above the transition exhibits a small resistance peak, which
vanishes immediately when a weak magnetic field is applied, as shown in
Fig. 2(d). This behavior suggests that this anomalous peak results from
a possible alteration of the current flow distribution when a part of
surface has a little higher T_(c), which might accidentally happen, and
undergoes the superconducting transition. Even if such a layer is
included as in sample D, the error involved in the magnitude of ρ_(c) is
less than 10

Figures 2(a)-2(d) show ρ_(c)-T curves for samples A-D in magnetic fields
applied along the c axis, exhibiting a characteristic semiconductive
upturn and a peak at T=$T_{\rm peak}$ near the resistive transition.
With increasing H, the upturn shows a systematic increase and a shift to
lower temperatures, leading to a significant negative MR behavior in the
lower T range. At high temperatures, on the other hand, the ρ_(c)(T)
shows a small positive MR. These field-dependent magnetoresistive
behaviors, except the anomalous resistance peak for sample D, are
attributable to the existence of the pseudogap for the same reason as in
p-type BSCCO (Ref. 2). In particular, for sample D, the ρ_(c)-T curve
exhibits a metallic behavior down

Figure 2: (a)–(d) ρ_(c)-T curves for H∥c for the SCCO mesas (samples
A–D). (e)–(h) H dependences of ρ_(c) at various temperatures for H∥c for
the same samples.

Figure 1: T dependence of ρ_(c) for samples A–D with various x.
Excitation current is 2 μA. Top-left inset: x dependence of T_(c) for
the same samples. The vertical error bars for T_(c) indicate the
transition width from the onset to the zero resistance. The
superconducting onset temperature is defined as the temperature at which
ρ_(c) reaches the peak. The horizontal error bars represent the standard
deviation of the composition analysis. Bottom-right inset: Schematic
illustration of the mesa structure in the present study (not to scale).

to 2 K for _m_o_H_? 8 T, implying that the pseudogap is almost entirely
suppressed at a magnetic field of 8 T.

In Figs. 2(e)-2(h), the H dependence of r_(c) is shown at various
temperatures for _H_|_c_. Below T_(c), all the _r__c_-_T_ curves exhibit
a peak at _H_=_H_peak. The _r__c_-_T_ curves at a temperature slightly
above T_(c) show a negative MR behavior at low fields, which is partly
or entirely counterbalanced by the positive MR component as H increases.
At high T, the MR is positive and quadratic in H, as shown in the inset
to Fig. 5(b).

Figure 3 shows plots both for _H_peak vs T and for _T_peak vs H in the
_H_-_T_ plane for samples A-D for the sake of comparison of the peaks in
Fig. 2. For each sample, the plots for _H_peak vs T and _T_peak vs H
coalesce on a single curve, which decreases almost linearly with
increasing T and its slope decreases with increasing x. Thus _H_peak
decreases significantly with increasing x. If we take into account that
_H_peak is caused by the interplay between the MR effect of the
pseudogap and the phase-fluctuation-induced resistive transition [20]
and that it is a lower bound on _H_c2 (Ref. [21]), the x dependence of
_H_peak may indicate that the coherence length ξ becomes longer with the
doping in the SCCO system.

In order to determine the pseudogap temperature T^(*), we use the
formulation proposed in our previous paper, [14] i.e.,

ρ_(c)(T, H) = ρ_(cN)(T) + ρ_(c-PG)(T, H) + α(T)H²,
(1)

where r_(N) is the zero-field resistivity in the absence of the
pseudogap, _r__c_PG is the extra resistivity component which emerges due
to the evolution of the pseudogap, and α is the coefficient of the usual
positive MR proportional to H². The value for α is obtained from the MR
at high temperatures as is described later. This relationship is assumed
to hold in the normal state. Since r_(c) is accompanied by both negative
and positive MR, r_(N) is unmeasurable below T^(*). To estimate r_(N),
the T dependence of r_(N) below T^(*) is assumed to be r0 + _AT_b in the
presence of a high magnetic field.

The second term _r__c_PG produces negative MR. This term is also
unmeasurable below T^(*) as in r_(N). If we assume r_(N) as above so as
to fit the extrapolation from higher temperatures, we can estimate
_r__c_PG values by using Eq. (1). The T dependence for r_(N) and its
extrapolation to lower temperatures are shown in Fig. 4(a). Figure 4(b)
displays the relationship between _r__c_PG and r_(N) in the case of
sample A. The estimates thus obtained for _r__c_PG are shown in Figs.
4(c)-4(f) as a function of both H and T for samples A-D. The result
reveals a clear decrease in _r__c_PG with increasing doping. Moreover,
rough extrapolation of _r__c_PG(T, H) to H=0 and T=0 suggests that
_r__c_PG(0,0) is approximately one order of magnitude larger than
_r__c_PG(T_(peak), 0). The value for _r__c_PG(0,0) reflects the
magnitude of the pseudogap. The results in Figs. 4(c)-4(f) indicate that
the pseudogap magnitude decreases as x increases. This behavior is in
close relation to T^(*), which is evaluated in the following based on MR
without any assumption for r_(N).

It is found that the _r__c_-_H_2 relationship is linear in the T range
higher than 50 K and that the T dependence for α is weak. Therefore, the
coefficient α was determined from the linear _r__c_-_H_2 relationship at
50 K and these values are used in the analysis which follows. The values
for α are plotted in the inset to Fig. 5(d) as a function of x, showing
an almost linear decrease with x. This significant decrease in α with x
can be understood in terms of the modified Kohler’s rule, [22] i.e., the
relationship α ≈ R_(H²)/ρ(H = 0), and a strong decrease

Figure 4: (a) _r__c_-_T_ curves for samples A–D. The low temperature
part of each curve is assumed to have the form _r__0_+_AT_β_. Values for
_r__0, A, and β were determined for the calculated curve to fit the
experimental _r__c_-_T_ curve at _μ_O_H_=9 T. (b) T dependence of
_r__c_N_ and _r__c_PG for sample A in the absence of a field. (c)–(f) H
dependence of the estimated _r__c_PG values at various temperatures for
samples A–D.

Figure 3: Plots for _T_peak(H) (filled symbols) and _H_peak(T) (open
symbols) for samples A–D in the _H_-_T_ plane.

in |R_(H)| in the superconducting region, where R_(H) is the Hall
coefficient.[18, 23] This understanding is based on the concept that the
interlayer magnetotransport is related to the in-plane transport in the
case of coherent tunneling.[24]

Above T^(*), ρ_(c) is represented by ρ_(cN) + αH² since the pseudogap is
absent. Below T^(*), on the other hand, the negative MR component
$\Delta\rho_{\rm{cPG}}$ evolves, which is expressed as
$\Delta\rho_{\rm{cPG}}(T,H)\!=\!\rho_{\rm{cPG}}(T,H)\!-\!\rho_{\rm{c}}(T,0)\!=\! \rho_{\rm{c}}(T,H)\!-\!\rho_{\rm{c}}(T,0)$− α(T)H²,
and illustrated in Fig. 5(a). Figure 5(b) shows the T dependences of
$\Delta\rho_{\rm{cPG}}$ at different fields for sample A. It is seen
that the $\Delta\rho_{\rm{cPG}}$-T curves obtained at different fields
collapse on a single line above 48 ± 2 K while they starts to deviate
below 48 ± 2 K. From this, we determine the zero-field T^(*) value to be
48 ± 2 K for sample A. The error involved in this determination of T^(*)
is clearly no greater than ± 2 K. Similarly, we obtain values of
T^(*)=45, 40, and 35 K for samples B, C, and D, respectively. The
$\Delta\rho_{\rm{cPG}}$-T curve for sample C is also shown in Fig. 5(c)
to make clear the shift of T^(*) at different x. Figure 5(d) shows
$\Delta\rho_{\rm{cPG}}(T)$ at 9 T for samples A-D. The negative MR,
i.e., $\Delta\rho_{\rm{cPG}}$, is seen to decrease with doping, which is
the result consistent with Figs. 4(c)-4(f). The large difference of
$\Delta\rho_{\rm{cPG}}$ around 25 K among samples A-D mainly comes from
the difference in T^(*), as seen in Figs. 5(b) and 5(c).

The value for T^(*) in the presence of a magnetic field H is obtained
from the difference between the $\Delta\rho_{\rm{cPG}}(H)$-T curve and
another curve under a higher magnetic field, as depicted in Fig. 5(a).
As a case of μ₀H = 6 T for sample A, the T dependence of
$\Delta\rho_{\rm{cPG}}(H)\!-\!\Delta\rho_{\rm{cPG}}(6$ T) for μ₀H = 8
and 9 T is shown in Fig. 6(a). The curves start to deviate from 0 at T =
40 K so that we obtain a value of T^(*)(6 T)=40 ± 2 K, which is lower
than T^(*)(0) by approximately 8 K. This definitely indicates that T^(*)
depends on the magnetic field notably and so does the pseudogap. To
check the validity of this evaluation, the ρ_(c)-H curve at 40 K is
depicted in Fig. 6(b) together with the curve of ρ_(cN)(40 K) + (σ50
K)H² for μ₀H> 6 T. It is clearly seen that both curves coincide for μ₀H>
6 T, implying that the pseudogap is absent for μ₀H> 6 T at 40 K. This is
consistent with the result of T^(*) = 40 ± 2 K at μ₀H= 6 T determined
from the curves in Fig. 6(a). The other values are shown in Fig. 7(a)
for samples A and B (Ref. 25).

## IV Discussion

Figure 7(a) shows the x dependence of T_(c) and T^(*) obtained in the
present study. Also plotted in Fig. 7(a) are the values

Figure 5: (a) Schematic illustration of ρ_(c) − αH², $\rho_{\rm{cPG}}$,
and $\Delta\rho_{\rm{cPG}}$ as a function of T, showing diminishing
$\rho_{\rm{cPG}}$ and a shift of T^(*) with increasing H. (b),(c) T
dependence of
$\Delta\rho_{\rm{cPG}}\!\!=\!\rho_{\rm{c}}(T,H)\!-\!\rho_{\rm{c}}(T,0)\!-\! \alpha(50$
KH² for sample A and C. (d) $\Delta\rho_{\rm{cPG}}$–T at 9 T for samples
A–D. Inset to (b): $\Delta\rho_{\rm{c}}(H)\!-\!H^{2}$ for sample A at
50, 70, and 100 K. Inset to (d): Plots for α/μ₀² vs x at 50 K.

for T^(*) obtained by Alff _et al._[11] There are two characteristic
features: (i) T^(*) decreases with doping monotonically and nearly
linearly and (ii) T^(*) is higher than T_(c) in the whole doping range
in the present study. These features are definite and remain unchanged
even if a different definition is adopted for the determination of
T^(*), as is clear in Fig. 7(a), where the values for T^(*) determined
by an extreme definition of $\Delta\rho_{\rm r;PG}(T^{*})$ = −0.02 Ω cm
are plotted as the lower bound for T^(*) in the present definition.
Evidently, the present result is at variance with the tunneling
spectroscopy results by Alff _et al._,[11] in which T^(*) is lower than
T_(c) and appears to vanish in the superconducting region. As revealed
in the present study, T^(*) decreases with increasing magnetic field. In
light of this field dependence of T^(*), the values by Alff _et al._ can
be smaller than the present values obtained in the absence of magnetic
fields since their tunneling experiments were conducted in a magnetic
field of μ₀H = 14 T. Therefore, values for T^(*) from Alff _et al._, as
plotted in Fig. 7, may be understood as an extension of our
field-dependent T^(*) data, contrary to their postulation of the field
independence of T^(*).

When we take into account the carrier density for the n-type cuprates,
as discussed later in this section, the doping levels of the present
samples are considered to lie in the overdoped region. Therefore, the
present result implies that T^(*) is observed even in the overdoped
region. This is consistent with the recent result observed by Dagan _et
al._[12] in the electron-doped Pr_(2 − x)Ce_(x)CuO₄, and the behavior of
T^(*) is thought to be common in the n-type cuprates.

In the nonsuperconducting region, on the other hand, the pseudogap is
observed at high energies.[6, 8] Its onset temperature T^(*) decreases
with x and disappears at around x = 0.14 in the case of NCCO.[6] In the
case of PCCO,[8] the pseudogap disappears near x = 0.16 in the
superconducting region, suggesting the existence of QCP. These results
probably imply that the critical x at which T^(*) vanish depends on the
kind of material. In the present study, the interlayer transport
basically probes the zero-bias conductance so that, strictly speaking,
it is difficult to discern which pseudogap the present result is related
to. Actually, however, the magnitude of T^(*) is used to estimate the
magnitude of the pseudogap. In the present case, T^(*) is −48 K so that
the pseudogap is estimated to be of the order of less than 10 meV.
Therefore, the pseudogap we have measured is clearly the low-energy
pseudogap. Then the next interesting question is whether the large
pseudogap is continuously connected to the small pseudogap near the
antiferromagnetic phase boundary. At

Figure 7: (a) x dependence of T^(*)(0), T^(*)(6 T), T_(c) at H = 0.
Filled diamonds show the values for T^(*) obtained by an extreme
definition of $\Delta\rho_{\rm r;PG}$ = −0.02 Ω cm at 9 T. These plots
indicate the lower bound for the ambiguity associated with the
arbitrariness of the definition of T^(*), demonstrating that even in
such a case it holds that T^(*) > T_(c). The T^(*) values for PCCO
obtained by Alff _et al._ (Ref. [11]) at 14 T are also plotted. The bars
at the top indicates approximate values for n, the number of electrons
per Cu site when δ = 0.03. (b) The phase diagram for the n-type
L_(2 − x)Ce_(x)CuO_(4 − δ) system on the semilogarithmic scale in the
absence of a magnetic field. The values for T^(*) from the optical
conductivity data (Ref. [6]) and the values for Néel temperature T_(N)
by the muon spin rotation and relaxation measurements (Ref. [26]) for
NCCO are used as the data for the antiferromagnetic region. The dashed
lines are guides to the eyes.

present, it is probably understood that the large pseudogap is related
to the (π, π) scattering of electrons, while the small pseudogap is
ascribed to the fluctuation of superconductivity or of a different kind.
Therefore, the high-energy pseudogap is likely to be different from the
low energy pseudogap in origin. Then it follows that the observed
sensitive change in T^(*) under a magnetic field is due to this nature
of the low-energy pseudogap.

The Fermi-liquid-like resistive behavior and the monotonic decrease in
T_(c) with parallel shift of the transition curve are reminiscent of
characteristics observed in overdoped p-type cuprates.[27, 28, 29] The x
and T dependence of $H_{\rm peak}$ show the tendency similar to that in
overdoped BSCCO,[2] where the field-dependent T^(*) was also observed.
If we allow for the value of δ≈ 0.03 from the oxygen-reducing
condition[30]n, the number of electrons per Cu site, ranges from 0.20 to
0.22 for the mesas, as seen in Fig. 7. The present results imply that in
the SCCO system the superconductivity appears in the overdoped region
because the antiferromagnetic phase persists to a much higher doping
level than in the p-type system.[31, 32, 33] Then the doping dependence
of T^(*), characterized both by a monotonic decrease with x and by a
value much higher than T_(c), can be viewed as a behavior observed in
overdoped region. This behavior is qualitatively consistent with the
experimental facts in overdoped BSCCO,[2, 3] suggesting that the
pseudogap is likely to be of the same origin both for the n- and p-type
high-T_(c) cuprates.

## V Conclusions

We have measured the interlayer transport by using the 30-nm-thick small
mesa structures for superconducting n-type SCCO with various x. All the
mesas exhibit ρ_(c) with a negative MR component, from which T^(*) is
determined. At a doping level of x∼ 0.140, which is close to the phase
boundary between superconductivity and antiferromagnetism, T^(*) is
found to be as low as 48 K. It is also found that T^(*) decreases
linearly with increasing x, while it keeps a value higher than T_(c).
For all the samples, the transport characteristics are reminiscent of
those for overdoped p-type cuprates. These results suggest that the
phase diagram for the pseudogap in the SCCO system is primarily similar
to that in the p-type cuprates.

###### Acknowledgements.

This work was partially supported by the 21st Century COE Program (Grant
No. 14213201) and a Grant-in-Aid for Scientific Research from MEXT. T.
K. was supported by the JSPS.

## References

* [* ] Electronic address: tsuyoshi@sk.kuee.kyoto-u.ac.jp * [ ]
Department of Physics, Kyoto University, Sakyo-ku, Kyoto 606-8502,
Japan * [ ] T. Timusk and B. Statt, Rep. Prog. Phys. **62**, 61
(1999). * [ ] T. Shibauchi, L. Krusin-Elbaum, M. Li, M. P. Maley, and P.
H. Kes, Phys. Rev. Lett. **86**, 5763 (2001). * [ ] K. Anagawa, T.
Watanabe, and M. Suzuki, Phys. Rev. B **73**, 184512 (2006). * [ ] N. P.
Armitage, D. H. Lu, C. Kim, A. Damascelli, K. M. Shen, F. Ronning, D. L.
Feng, P. Bogdanov, Z.-X. Shen, Y. Onose, Y. Taguchi, Y. Tokura, P. K.
Mang, N. Kaneko, and M. Greven, Phys. Rev. Lett. **87**, 147003
(2001). * [ ] N. P. Armitage, F. Ronning, D. H. Lu, C. Kim, A.
Damascelli, K. M. Shen, D. L. Feng, H. Eisaki, Z.-X. Shen, P. K. Mang,
N. Kaneko, M. Greven, Y. Onose, Y. Taguchi, and Y. Tokura, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **88**, 257001 (2002). * [ ] Y. Onose, Y. Taguchi, K. Ishizaka,
and Y. Tokura, Phys. Rev. Lett. **87**, 217001 (2001). * [ ] Y. Onose,
Y. Taguchi, K. Ishizaka, and Y. Tokura, Phys. Rev. B **69**, 024504
(2004). * [ ] A. Zimmers, J. M. Tomczak, R. P. S. M. Lobo, N. Bontemps,
C. P. Hill, M. C. Barr, Y. Dagan, R. L. Greene, A. J. Millis, and C. C.
Homes, Europhys. Lett. **70**, 225 (2005). * [ ] A. Koitzsch, G.
Blumberg, A. Gozar, B. S. Dennis, P. Fournier, and R. L. Greene, Phys.
Rev. B **67**, 184522 (2003). * [ ] G. Q. Zheng, T. Sato, Y. Kitaoka, M.
Fujita, and K. Yamada, Phys. Rev. Lett. **90**, 197005 (2003). * [ ] L.
Alff, Y. Krockenberger, B. Welter, M. Schonecke, R. Gross, D. Manske,
and M. Naito, Nature (London) **422**, 698 (2003). * [ ] Y. Dagan, M. M.
Qazilbash, and R. L. Greene, Phys. Rev. Lett. **94**, 187003 (2005). * [
] S. Kleefisch, B. Welter, A. Marx, L. Alff, R. Gross, and M. Naito,
Phys. Rev. B **63**, 100507(R) (2001). * [ ] T. Kawakami, T. Shibauchi,
Y. Terao, M. Suzuki, and L. Krusin-Elbaum, Phys. Rev. Lett. **95**,
017001 (2005). * [ ] M. Suzuki, T. Watanabe, and A. Matsuda, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **82**, 5361 (1999). * [ ] T. Watanabe, T. Fujii, and A. Matsuda,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **84**, 5848 (2000). * [ ] P. K. Mang, S. Larochelle,
A. Mehta, O. P. Vajk, A. S. Erickson, L. Lu, W. J. L. Buyers, A. F.
Marshall, K. Prokes, and M. Greven, Phys. Rev. B **70**, 094507
(2004). * [ ] Y. Hidaka and M. Suzuki, Nature (London) **338**, 635
(1989). * [ ] J. L. Peng, Z. Y. Li, and R. L. Greene, Physica C **177**,
79 (1991). * [ ] M. Suzuki, T. Watanabe, and A. Matsuda, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **81**, 4248 (1998). * [ ] L. Krusin-Elbaum, G. Blatter, and T.
Shibauchi, Phys. Rev. B **69**, 220506(R) (2004). * [ ] H. Kontani, J.
Phys. Soc. Jpn. **70**, 1873 (2001). * [ ] J. M. Harris, Y. F. Yan, P.
Matl, N. P. Ong, P. W. Anderson, T. Kimura, and K. Kitazawa, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **75**, 1391 (1995). * [ ] N. Kumar and A. M. Jayannavar, Phys.
Rev. B **45**, 5001 (1992). * [ ] For sample C and D, T^(*)(6 T) was not
able to be determined because the $\rho_{c,{\rm FC}}(H)$ data was small
and led to undulation after subtraction, which made it difficult to
determine the temperature at which the curve deviates from 0. This is
probably caused by the error in the estimation of α, which can be
temperature-dependent sightly. * [ ] G. M. Luke, L. P. Le, B. J.
Sternlieb, Y. J. Uemura, J. H. Brewer, R. Kadono, R. F. Kiefl, S. R.
Kreitzman, T. M. Riseman, C. E.

Stronach, M. R. Davis, S. Uchid, H. Takagi, Y. Tokura, Y. Hidaka, T.
Murakami, J. Gopalakrishnan, A. W. Sleight, M. A. Subramanian, E. A.
Early, J. T. Markert, M. B. Maple, and C. L. Seamanz, Phys. Rev. B
**42**, 7981 (1990). * [27] M. Suzuki and M. Hikita, Phys. Rev. B
**44**, 249 (1991). * [28] Y. Nakamura and S. Uchida, Phys. Rev. B
**47**, R8369 (1993). * [29] A. P. Mackenzie, S. R. Julian, G. G.
Lonzarich, A. Carrington, S. D. Hughes, R. S. Liu, and D. C. Sinclair,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **71**, 1238 (1993). * [30] T. Kawashima and E.
Takayama-Muromachi, Physica C **219**, 389 (1994), in this reference, a
δ of 0.02 to 0.03 gives the highest T_(c). The oxygen reduction
condition in the present study is rather close to the one that gave
δ=0.03 in Ref. [30] so that we adopted δ=0.03 to estimate values of n. *
[31] For T^(*)-type La_(2 − x)Ce_(x)CuO₄ thin films, the underdoped
regime is located for x<0.09 because of a narrower antiferromagnetic
region (Ref. [32]). In SCCO, a wider antiferromagnetic region is
probably caused by a small ionic radius of Sm (Ref. [33]). * [32] M.
Naito and M. Hepp, Jpn. J. Appl. Phys., Part 2 **39**, L485 (2000). *
[33] M. Fujita, T. Kubo, S. Kuroshima, T. Uefuji, K. Kawashima, K.
Yamada, I. Watanabe, and K. Nagamine, Phys. Rev. B **67**, 014514
(2003).
