# Microwave surface-impedance measurements of the electronic state and
dissipation

of magnetic vortices in superconducting LiFeAs single crystals

T. Okada

H. Takahashi

Y. Imai

Y. Kitagawa

K. Matsubayashi

Y. Uwatoko

A. Maeda

Department of Basic Science, The University of Tokyo, Meguro, Tokyo
153-8902, Japan Institute for Solid State Physics, The University of
Tokyo, Kashiwa, Chiba 277-8581, Japan

###### Abstract

LiFeAs is one of the iron-based superconductors that has multiple gaps
with a possible sign reversal. To clarify how those characteristics
affect the energy dissipation of magnetic vortices, we investigated the
microwave surface impedance of LiFeAs single crystals under finite
magnetic fields. The flux-flow resistivity enhanced rapidly at low
magnetic fields, which is similar to the case of MgB₂. This is probably
a consequence of the multiple-gap nature and the gap anisotropy. This
suggest that the sign reversal is not important for the flux flow, even
for multiple-gap superconductors. As for the electronic state, the
vortex core of LiFeAs turned out to be "moderately clean." Furthermore,
the mean free path inside the vortex core was much shorter than that
outside, and was close to the core radius. These results strongly
suggest that a process specific to the core boundary is important for a
scattering mechanism inside the vortex core.

pacs: 2010.1103/PhysRevB.86.064516 [ ] ] ] ] ] ] ] ]

Ever since the discovery of LaFeAsO_(1 − x)F_(x) with T_(c) = 26 K, [1]
iron-based superconductors (SCs) have attracted a lot of attention.
Because multiple bands contribute to the Fermi surfaces and the magnetic
phase exists in the vicinity of the superconductive phase in the phase
diagram, it is expected that the mechanism of superconductivity of
iron-based SCs is different from that of conventional SCs. New
possibilities of superconducting gap structures based on the interband
scattering, such as s^(±)-wave [2,3] and s⁺⁺-wave [4,5] were suggested
theoretically. Experimentally, although this issue is under debate [6],
phase-sensitive experiments [7, 8, 9] suggested that s^(±)-state was
realized in some materials of iron-based SCs. The electronic structure
and dynamic properties of vortices in such a novel class of SCs are of
great interest.

As for conventional SCs, the quasiparticle (QP) excitation inside the
vortex core has quantized energy levels with the spacing
$\Delta E\sim\Delta^{2}/E_{\rm F}\equiv\hbar\omega_{0}$, where Δ and
$E_{\rm F}$ are the size of the superconducting gap and the Fermi
energy, respectively, and with the width
$\delta E\sim\hbar/\tau_{\rm core}$, where $\tau_{\rm core}$ is the
relaxation time of QPs inside the vortex core [10, 11]. The ratio of
these two energy scales,
$\Delta E/\delta E\sim\omega_{0}\tau_{\rm core}$, is a barometer of the
quantum nature of the electronic state inside the vortex core. Depending
on this number, we have the following three regimes: (i) the dirty
regime ($\omega_{0}\tau_{\rm core}\ll 1$), (ii) the moderately clean
regime ($\omega_{0}\tau_{\rm core}\sim 1$), and (iii) the superclean
regime ($\omega_{0}\tau_{\rm core}\gg 1$). It should be noted that
$\omega_{0}\tau_{\rm core}$ is connected to the viscous drag
coefficient, η, and the carrier density, n, as
$\omega_{0}\tau_{\rm core}=\eta/n\pi\hbar$[12].

According to Kopnin and Volovik (KV) [13], the flux-flow resistivity of
a single-gap SC, ρ_(f), behaves in magnetic fields, B, as

$$\frac{\rho_{f}}{\rho_{\rm h}}\approx\frac{\Delta_{0}^{2}}{\langle\Delta^{2}( \theta)\rangle_{\rm FS}}\frac{B}{B_{c2}}\quad(B\ll B_{c2}),$$
(1)

where $\rho_{\rm h}$, B_(c2), Δ₀, and
$\langle\Delta^{2}(\theta)\rangle_{\rm FS}$ are the resistivity in the
normal state, the upper critical field, the maximum size of the
superconducting gap, and the angular average of the superconducting gap
on the Fermi surface, respectively. This suggests that (i) ρ_(f) in the
low-B region increases linearly with B, and (ii) the gradient,
$\alpha\equiv\Delta_{0}^{2}/\langle\Delta^{2}(\theta)\rangle_{\rm FS}$,
becomes larger than unity when Δ(θ) depends on the angle θ. In fact, for
an isotropic gap case, the Bardeen-Stephen (BS) theory [14] obviously
obeys Eq. (1). On the other hand, in the nodal and modulated gap case,
an enhancement with α > 1 in the low-B region has also been observed
experimentally [15, 16, 17, 18]. This also suggests that the so-called
"Volovik effect" (in which the effect of the Doppler shift on QPs
disperses as a result of the circulating supercurrents) is not important
for the flux flow in the low-B region, although it succeeded to explain
the B dependences of the specific heat and the thermal conductivity. As
for the two-band s⁺⁺-wave SCs, such as MgB₂ and Y₂C₃, a rapid
enhancement of ρ_(f)(B) was observed [19, 20]. This can be interpreted
as a superposition of two linear B dependences corresponding to two
bands [21]. Thus, ρ_(f)(B) reflects the superconducting gap structure
and its symmetry. Therefore, it is very interesting how the flux-flow
resistivity of the novel class of SCs behaves as a function of B.
However, the flux flow of such novel SCs has not been investigated at
all either theoretically or experimentally. Thus, it is a great
challenge to investigate the flux flow of iron-based SCs.

We focus on a 111 material, LiFeAs. This material has the highest T_(c)
of 18 K (Ref. [22]) among stoichiometric iron-based SCs, and single
crystals with high quality [residual resistivity ratio (RRR) ∼50] can be
obtained. The band calculation [23] suggested that Fermi surfaces
consist of two holelike and two electronlike pockets around Γ points and
M points, respectively. Nodeless multiple superconducting gaps were
observed by angle-resolved photoemission spectroscopy (ARPES) [24, 25]
and a specific-heat measurement [26], and superfluid-density data [27,
28] showed that LiFeAs has a nodeless multiple-gap structure. In
addition to the phase-sensitive experiment in Li-111, [9] the electrical
conductivity, σ₁[28], estimated from the microwave surface impedance and
the nuclear spin-lattice relaxation rate, 1/ T₁[29], do not show the
so-called "coherence peak" below T_(c). These strongly suggest that
LiFeAs has an s^(±)-wave gap structure. Therefore, we can agree with the
standpoint that Li-111 is an s^(±)-SC.

In this paper, we report on the surface impedance of LiFeAs single
crystals under finite magnetic fields, and we discuss the electronic
state inside the vortex core. It was clarified that the field dependence
of the flux flow of an s^(±)-state is similar to that of an s⁺⁺-state,
and that the vortex core of LiFeAs is moderately clean. The estimated
mean free path of QPs inside the vortex core was found to be much
shorter than that outside, and was comparable to the core radius. This
suggest that the mechanism characteristic of the core boundary plays an
important role in the dissipative process inside the vortex core.

LiFeAs single crystals were grown by a self-flux method [28] and were
cleaved under an Ar atmosphere in a glove box. The typical sample size
was 0.5 × 0.5 × 0.2 mm³, and the demagnetization coefficient estimated
under ellipsoidal approximation was about 0.58. These were of very high
quality, with RRR
$\equiv\rho_{\rm dc}(300\ {\rm K})/\rho_{\rm dc}(T_{\rm c})\sim 45$, and
the dc resistivity behaved as
$\rho_{\rm dc}(T>T_{\rm c})=\rho_{0}+AT^{2}$
($\rho_{0}\approx 30\ \mu\Omega\,{\rm cm}$,
$A\approx 6.5\times 10^{-2}\ \mu\Omega\,{\rm cm/K^{2}}$), which is
typical of the Fermi liquid dominated by the electron-electron
scattering. Since LiFeAs is moisture-/atmosphere-sensitive, samples were
covered with Apiezon N grease during the measurement. We confirmed that
Apiezon N grease does not affect the results discussed below in a
different comparative experiment.

The microwave surface impedance was measured by using a cavity
perturbation technique [30] with a cylindrical oxygen-free Cu cavity
resonator operated at ω/2π ∼ 19 GHz in the TE₀₁₁ mode. The Q factor was
Q ≳ 6 × 10⁴, and the filling factor of the samples was about 6 × 10⁻⁶.
Both the external magnetic field up to 8 T and the microwave magnetic
field were applied parallel to the c axis. Therefore, we investigated
the in-plane vortex motion.

The surface impedance, $Z_{\rm s}=R_{\rm s}-i\,X_{\rm s}$ ($R_{\rm s}$
and $X_{\rm s}$ are the surface resistance and the surface reactance,
respectively), is related to the resonant frequencies,
ω_(s)/2π ∼ ω_(b)/2π, and the Q factors, Q_(s) and Q_(b), as
$R_{\rm s}=G\left(1/2Q_{s}-1/2Q_{b}\right),\ X_{\rm s}=G\left(1-\omega_{s}/ \omega_{b}\right)+C$,
where the subscripts s and b represent the values measured with and
without the sample, respectively, and G, C are constants determined by
the size and the shapes of the sample and the resonator. The magnitudes
of $R_{\rm s}$ and $X_{\rm s}$ are obtained by assuming the Hagen-Rubens
relation $R_{\rm s}=X_{\rm s}=\sqrt{\mu_{0}\omega\rho_{\rm dc}/2}$ in
the normal state.

$Z_{\rm s}$ in the mixed state was calculated by Coffey and Clem (CC).
[31] Their calculation is based on the equation of motion of the
massless vortex,
$\eta\dot{\mbox{\boldmath$u$}}+\kappa\mbox{\boldmath$u$}=\Phi_{0}\mbox{\boldmath $J$}\times\hat{\mbox{\boldmath$z$}}+\mbox{\boldmath$f$}(t)$,
where u is the displacement of a vortex, κ is the pinning force
constant, Φ₀ = h/2e = 2.07 × 10⁻¹⁵ Wb is the flux quantum, J is the
transport current density, and $\hat{\mbox{\boldmath$z$}}$ is the unit
vector in the applied field direction. The effect of thermal
fluctuations and the Hall effect are effectively included in random
force, f(t), and η, respectively, for circulating microwave currents. At
low temperature, the flux-creep contribution becomes negligibly small
and the CC model leads to the relation

$$Z_{\rm s}=-i\,\mu_{0}\omega\sqrt{\frac{\lambda_{\rm L}^{2}+\frac{1}{\mu_{0} \omega}\rho_{f}\left(1-i\frac{\omega_{\rm L}}{\omega}\right)^{-1}}{1+is}},$$
(2)

where $\lambda_{\rm L}$ is the London penetration depth and
$\omega_{\rm cr}/2\pi$ is the crossover frequency characterizing the
crossover between reactive and resistive response, and
$s=\mu_{0}\omega\lambda_{\rm L}^{2}/\rho_{\rm a}$, which represents the
normal-fluid contribution. One can assume that s is negligible at low
temperatures. Consequently, we obtain $\omega_{\rm cr}$ and ρ_(f) from
experimental data of $R_{\rm s}$ and $X_{\rm s}$ by solving Eq. (2).

Figure 1 shows the magnetic field dependence of $Z_{\rm s}$ at various
temperatures. Good agreement between temperature-swept data and
magnetic-field-swept data indicates that the magnetic field penetrates
uniformly in the sample. With increasing magnetic field, both
$R_{\rm s}$ and $X_{\rm s}$ increase monotonically. In particular,
$R_{\rm s}$ shows a convex upward behavior. We determine the zero-field
superconducting transition temperature, $T_{\rm c}^{\rm onset}=17$ K,
from the temperature dependence of $X_{\rm s}$ in zero magnetic field,
which is in good agreement with the previously reported number in the
same batch. [28]

The obtained crossover frequency of $\omega_{\rm cr}/2\pi\approx 3$ GHz
is larger than that of conventional SCs (≈100 MHz) (Ref. [32]) but
smaller than that of copper-oxide SCs by one order of magnitude. [33,
34] A similar value of $\omega_{\rm cr}$ has been reported in a
1111-type polycrystal (≈ 6 GHz). [35] The tendency that
$\omega_{\rm cr}$ becomes small at high temperatures is consistent with
a general description that the thermal fluctuation decreases the pinning
force.

Figure 2 shows the normalized flux-flow resistivity as a function of the
normalized magnetic field. The flux-flow resistivity of LiFeAs single
crystals increased linearly with B, suggesting that the KV model is
appropriate even for this material. As for the gradient, α of LiFeAs is
larger than that of the conventional s-wave case (α = 1) and smaller
than that of the d-wave (with lines of node) case (α ≈ 2). This
enhancement of ρ_(f)(B) may be derived from one or both of two origins.
The first possible origin is based on the multiple-band nature. As for
the two-band SCs, such as MgB₂ and Y₂C₃, the superposition of two linear
dependences corresponding to two

Figure 1: (Color online) The magnetic field dependence of (a) the
surface resistance, $R_{\rm s}$, and (b) the surface reactance,
$X_{\rm s}$, of a LiFeAs single crystal at 19 GHz up to 8 T at various
temperatures. The curves and the open circles represent the data taken
in the swept magnetic field (fixed temperatures) and in the swept
temperature (fixed magnetic fields), respectively.

bands causes the flux-flow resistivity to enhance rapidly at low B.[19,
20] We can speculate that the five-band nature of LiFeAs probably
induces a similar tendency. The second possibility is based on the gap
anisotropy. Recent ARPES data suggest that some of the superconducting
gaps have obvious fourfold angle dependences.[25] Based on the KV model,
this angle dependence of the superconducting gap will make the gradient
of ρ_(f)(B) larger than unity (α > 1). In any case, the magnetic field
dependence of ρ_(f) of LiFeAs is very similar to that of MgB₂, implying
that the s^(±)-wave SC behaves essentially similarly to the s⁺⁺-wave SC
so far as the flux-flow is concerned. The insensitivity of the flux flow
to the sign change for single-gap SCs has already been known for
single-gap SCs; although the anisotropic s-wave SC and the d-wave SC
differ from each other in the sign change of the order parameter, ρ_(f)
of both SCs exhibits a B-linear dependence with α > 1.[16, 17, 18] Our
present result shows that the insensitivity shown in the flux flow is
applicable also for multiple-gap SCs.

Figure 3 shows the temperature dependence of the viscous drag
coefficient, η = Φ₀B/ρ_(f). η is well fitted by the expected temperature
dependence in the Ginzburg-Landau (GL) theory,
η(T) = η(0)[1 − (T/T_(c))²]/[1 + (T/T_(c))²]. From the fitting, we
obtain η(0) = (1.5 ± 0.2) × 10⁻⁷ Ns/m². We can estimate the upper
critical field as $B_{c2}(T)=\rho_{\rm n}(T)\eta(T)/\Phi_{0}$, where
$\rho_{\rm n}(T)=\rho_{0}+AT^{2}$ is extrapolated as
$\rho_{\rm dc}(T>T_{c})$ in the temperature regions T < T_(c). The
result is shown in the inset. We obtain B_(c2)(0) = 22 ± 4 T. Similar
numbers were reported previously in the same material.[36, 37, 38, 39,
40, 41] Considering the moisture-/atmosphere-sensitive nature of LiFeAs
and the difference of RRR values among these crystals, we consider that
it is within the range of individual differences.

In Fig. 4, we discuss the relaxation time and the mean free path (mfp)
of QPs inside the vortex core. Since
$\lambda_{\rm L}^{-2}(T)=\mu_{0}e^{2}n_{s}(T)/m^{*}$, using the value
m^(*)/m₀ = 5.2-6.3 (m₀ is the free-electron mass)[42, 43] and
$\lambda_{\rm L}(0)=X_{s}(0)/\mu_{0}\omega\sim 390$ nm, we estimate the
carrier density n ≈ n_(s)(0) = (9.6-11.7) × 10²⁰ cm⁻³, which gives
ω₀r${}_{\rm core}=0.4$-0.5. This shows that the vortex core of LiFeAs is
in the moderately clean regime. Furthermore, by using the number
−ℏω₀/2 = −0.9 meV observed in a recent scanning tunneling
microscopy/spectroscopy (STM/STS) study,[44] we obtain the relaxation
time of QPs inside the vortex core, r${}_{\rm core}$(1.8 K)  ≈ 0.15 ps.
This value is quite different from that outside (≈10 ps),[28] and is
even smaller than that in the normal state (≈0.6 ps). These results are
shown in Fig. 4(a). From the relaxation time, we found the mfp of QPs
inside the vortex core to be
$l_{\rm core}=v_{\rm F}$r${}_{\rm core}\approx 40$ A, where
$v_{\rm F}\approx 2.6\times 10^{4}$ m/s is the Fermi velocity, which is
estimated from STM/STS[44] and ARPES data.[24, 25] Again, this value is
much shorter than that outside the core, $l_{\rm Meissner}$. In
particular, as shown in Fig. 4(b), $l_{\rm core}$ is comparable to the
coherence length, ξ, estimated from B_(c2). We checked the repeatability
in another single crystal of LiFeAs, and the results were consistent
with those described above. In addition, we performed the same
measurements in LiFe(As,P) single crystals, which was at most 3

The short mfp of QPs inside the vortex core was also observed in many
copper-oxide SCs, such as YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − x), Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O${}_{\rm v}$,
and La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄.[45, 46, 47] In these cuprates, the mfp inside
the vortex core is also much shorter than that outside and rather close
to the core radius, $l_{\rm M}\gg l_{\rm core}\sim\xi$

Figure 4: (Color online) (a) Temperature dependences of relaxation times
and mean free paths of QPs in several states. Symbols are those outside
the vortex core (blue open circle), in the normal state (green open
triangle), and inside the vortex core (red solid circle), respectively.
(b) Temperature dependences of the mfp inside the vortex core (red
circle) and the coherence length calculated from B_(c2)(T) (black
triangle).

Figure 3: (Color online) The temperature dependence of the viscous drag
coefficient, η = Φ₀B/ρ_(f). The green solid line is the expectation in
the GL theory, η(t) = η(0)(1 − t²)/(1 + t²). The inset shows the
temperature dependence of B_(c2) obtained from $T_{c}^{\rm onset}$ from
the temperature dependence of $R_{\rm s}$ (blue open circle), and that
calculated from $\rho_{\rm n}$ and η (red open diamond). The solid line
is to guide the eye.

Figure 2: (Color online) The magnetic field dependence of the flux-flow
resistivity ρ_(f)(B) of the LiFeAs single crystal at several
temperatures. The blue open circle is ρ_(f)(B) at T = 1.8 K obtained
from temperature-swept data. The gradients, α, expected in d-wave (with
lines of node) SCs (α ≈ 2) and in conventional s-wave SCs (α = 1) are
also shown as dashed and dotted lines, respectively.

Similarly, in Y₂C₃, [20] which is one of the two-gap SCs with an
isotropic s-wave, the mfp inside the vortex core is limited to the
coherence length, $l_{\rm core}\lesssim\xi$. It is surprising that a
similar tendency was observed among many different SCs with different
gap structures, pairing mechanisms, and electronic structures. Since the
relation $l_{\rm core}\sim\xi$ was obtained, one can consider that a
scattering process which is specific to the core boundary contributes to
the additional dissipation in the vortex core, as was originally
considered by Nozieres and Vinen for clean SCs. [48] Indeed, Eschrig _et
al._[49] discussed that the Andreev reflection at the core boundary is
crucial even in the flux flow of moderately clean SCs, and they showed
theoretically that there is extra energy dissipation at low frequencies
because of the presence of a collective mode. However, it is not yet
clear whether this mechanism can explain the large dissipation observed
in our experiments quantitatively at present. A systematic study of the
frequency dependence of the in-core dissipation will clarify the
validity of Eschrig’s model. On the other hand, according to Tinkham
[50] and Nozieres-Vinen-Warren. [48, 51] the relaxation time
$\tau_{\rm gap}=\hbar/\Delta_{0}$, which is characteristic of the moving
vortex, has been considered. For LiFeAs, $\tau_{\rm gap}=0.2$ ps is
comparable to the obtained $\tau_{\rm core}$. To clarify the validity of
these models, studies of the gap-size dependence of $\tau_{\rm core}$
are needed.

In conclusion, we investigated the microwave surface impedance of LiFeAs
single crystals under finite magnetic fields. The magnetic field
dependence of the flux-flow resistivity of a new class of
superconductors having multiple gaps with a possible sign reversal
became clear. The flux-flow resistivity increased linearly with the
magnetic field, as was suggested by Kopnin-Volovik. In particular, the
gradient at low fields was larger (smaller) than that of conventional
s-wave superconductors (d-wave superconductors with lines of node). This
is probably a consequence of the multiple-gap nature and/or the gap
anisotropy. This also suggests that the flux-flow resistivity is
insensitive to the sign reversal of the order parameter on different
Fermi surfaces. As for the electronic state, the vortex core of LiFeAs
was estimated to be moderately clean. The mean free path of
quasiparticles inside the vortex core was much shorter than that
outside, and was comparable to the core radius, suggesting the
importance of the Andreev reflection at the core boundary. Such a
tendency was observed also in many other superconductors, and systematic
studies will clarify the dissipative mechanism inside the vortex core.

We thank Tetsuo Hanaguri for showing us many unpublished data and also
for fruitful discussions. We also thank Masashi Takigawa for providing
us with LiFeAs single crystals, and Yusuke Kato for valuable comments.

## References

* [1] Y. Kamihara _et al._, J. Am. Chem. Soc. **130**, 3296 (2008). *
[2] I. I. Mazin, D. J. Singh, M. D. Johannes, and M. H. Du, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **101**, 057003 (2008). * [3] K. Kuroki, S. Onari, R. Arita, H.
Usui, Y. Tanaka, H. Kontani, and H. Aoki, Phys. Rev. Lett. **101**,
087004 (2008). * [4] S. Onari and H. Kontani, Phys. Rev. Lett. **103**,
177001 (2009). * [5] Y. Yanagi, Y. Yamakawa, and Y. Ono, Phys. Rev. B
**81**, 054518 (2010). * [6] P. J. Hirschfeld, M. M. Korshunov, and I.
I. Mazin, Rep. Prog. Phys. **74**, 124508 (2011). * [7] T. Hanaguri _et
al._, Science **328**, 474 (2010). * [8] C. T. Chen _et al._, Nat. Phys.
**6**, 260 (2010). * [9] T. Hanaguri _et al._ (unpublished). * [10] C.
Caroli _et al._, Phys. Lett. **9**, 307 (1964). * [11] H. F. Hess, R. B.
Robinson, R. C. Dynes, J. M. Valles, and J. V. Waszczak, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **62**, 214 (1989). * [12] G. Blatter _et al._, Rev. Mod. Phys.
**66**, 1125 (1994). * [13] N. B. Kopnin and G. E. Volovik, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **79**, 1377 (1997). * [14] J. Bardeen and M. J. Stephen, Phys.
Rev. **140**, A1197 (1965). * [15] S. Kambe, A. D. Huxley, P. Rodiere,
and J. Flouquet, Phys. Rev. Lett. **83**, 1842 (1999). * [16] Y.
Tsuchiya, K. Iwaya, K. Kinoshita, T. Hanaguri, H. Kitano, A. Maeda, K.
Shibata, T. Nishizaki, and N. Kobayashi, Phys. Rev. B **63**, 184517
(2001). * [17] Y. Matsuda, A. Shibata, K. Izawa, H. Ikuta, M. Hasegawa,
and Y. Kato, Phys. Rev. B **66**, 014527 (2002). * [18] K. Takaki, A.
Koizumi, T. Hanaguri, M. Nohara, H. Takagi, K. Kitazawa, Y. Kato, Y.
Tsuchiya, H. Kitano, and A. Maeda, Phys. Rev. B **66**, 184511 (2002). *
[19] A. Shibata, M. Matsumoto, K. Izawa, Y. Matsuda, S. Lee, and S.
Tajima, Phys. Rev. B **68**, 060501(R) (2003). * [20] S. Akutagawa, T.
Ohashi, H. Kitano, A. Maeda, J. Goryo, H. Matsukawa, and J. Akimitsu, J.
Phys. Soc. Jpn. **77**, 064701 (2008). * [21] J. Goryo and H. Matsukawa,
Physica B **359**, 533 (2005). * [22] J. H. Tapp, Z. Tang, B. Lv, K.
Sasmal, B. Lorenz, P. C. W. Chu, and A. M. Guloy, Phys. Rev. B **78**,
060505R (2008). * [23] D. J. Singh, Phys. Rev. B **78**, 094511
(2008). * [24] S. V. Borisenko _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **105**,
067002 (2010). * [25] K. Umezawa _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **108**,
037002 (2012). * [26] F. Wei, F. Chen, K. Sasmal, B. Lv, Z. J. Tang, Y.
Y. Xue, A. M. Guloy, and C. W. Chu, Phys. Rev. B **81**, 134527
(2010). * [27] H. Kim, M. A. Tanatar, Y. J. Song, Y. S. Kwon, and R.
Prozorov, Phys. Rev. B **83**, 100502 (2011). * [28] Y. Imai _et al._,
J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **80**, 013704 (2011). * [29] Z. Li _et al._, J.
Phys. Soc. Jpn. **79**, 083702 (2010). * [30] A. Maeda _et al._, J.
Phys.: Condens. Matter **17**, R143 (2005). * [31] M. W. Coffey and J.
R. Clem, Phys. Rev. Lett. **67**, 386 (1991). * [32] J. I. Gittleman and
B. Rosenblum, Phys. Rev. Lett. **16**, 734 (1966). * [33] M. Golosovsky,
M. Tsindlekht, H. Chayet, and D. Davidov, Phys. Rev. B **50**, 470
(1994). * [34] S. Revenaz, D. E. Oates, D. Labbe-Lavigne, G.
Dresselhaus, and M. S. Dresselhaus, Phys. Rev. B **50**, 1178 (1994). *
[35] A. Narduzzo _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **78**, 012507 (2008). * [36] N.
Kurita _et al._, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **80**, 013706 (2011). * [37] J. L.
Zhang, L. Jiao, F. F. Balakirev, X. C. Wang, C. Q. Jin, and H. O. Yuan,
Phys. Rev. B **83**, 174506 (2011). * [38] K. Cho, H. Kim, M. A.
Tanatar, Y. J. Song, Y. S. Kwon, W. A. Coniglio, C. C. Agosta, A.
Gurevich, and R. Prozorov, Phys. Rev. B **83**, 060502(R) (2011).

* (39) M. A. Tanatar, J.-Ph. Reid, S. Ren de Cotret, N. Doiron-Leyraud,
F. Lalibert, E. Hassinger, J. Chang, H. Kim, K. Cho, Yoo Jang Song, Yong
Seung Kwon, R. Prozorov, and Louis Taillefer, Phys. Rev. B **84**,
054507 (2011). * (40) O. Heyer, T. Lorenz, V. B. Zabolotnyy, D. V.
Evtushinsky, S. V. Borisenko, I. Morozov, L. Harnagea, S. Wurmehl, C.
Hess, and B. Buchner, Phys. Rev. B **84**, 064512 (2011). * (41) Y. J.
Song _et al._, Appl. Phys. Lett. **96**, 212508 (2010). * (42) C. Putzke
_et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **108**, 047002 (2012). * (43) S. Kasahara,
K. Hashimoto, H. Ikeda, T. Terashima, Y. Matsuda, and T. Shibauchi,
Phys. Rev. B **85**, 060503 (2012). * (44) T. Hanaguri, K. Kitagawa, K.
Matsubayashi, Y. Mazaki, Y. Uwatoko, and H. Takagi, Phys. Rev. B **85**,
214505 (2012). * (45) A. Maeda _et al._, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **76**,
094708 (2007). * (46) A. Maeda _et al._, Physica C **362**, 127
(2001). * (47) A. Maeda, T. Umetsu, and H. Kitano, Physica C **460**,
1202 (2007). * (48) P. Nozieres and W. F. Vinen, Philos. Mag. **14**,
667 (1966). * (49) M. Eschrig, J. A. Sauls, and D. Rainer, Phys. Rev. B
**60**, 10447 (1999). * (50) M. Tinkham, Phys. Rev. Lett. **13**, 804
(1964). * (51) W. F. Vinen and A. C. Warren, Proc. Phys. Soc. **91**,
409 (1967).
