Signatures of pressure-induced superconductivity in insulating
Bi_(1.98)Sr_(2.06)Y_(0.68)CaCu₂O_(8 + δ)

T. Cuk,¹ D. A. Zocco,² H. Eisaki,³ V. Struzhkin,⁴ F. M. Grosche,⁵ M. B.
Maple,² and Z.-X. Shen⁶

¹Materials Science Division, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory,
University of California-Berkeley, Berkeley, California 94720, USA

²Department of Physics, University of California-San Diego, La Jolla,
California 92093, USA

³Nanoelectronics Research Institute, National Institute of Advanced
Industrial Science and Technology,

1-1-1 Central 2, Umezono, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 305-8568, Japan

⁴Geophysical Laboratory, Carnegie Institution of Washington, 5241 Broad
Branch Road NW, Washington, DC 20015, USA

⁵Department of Physics, Royal Holloway, University of London, Egham,
Surrey TW20 0EX, United Kingdom

⁶Stanford Institute for Materials and Energy Sciences, SLAC National
Accelerator Laboratory, Menlo Park, California 94025, USA

and Departments of Physics and Applied Physics, Stanford University,
Stanford, California 94305, USA

###### Abstract

We have performed several high-pressure electrical resistance
experiments on Bi_(1.98)Sr_(2.06)Y_(0.68)Cu₂O_(8 + δ) (Bi2212), an
insulating parent compound of the high-T_(c) Bi2212 family of copper
oxide superconductors. We find a resistive anomaly, a downturn at low
temperature, that onsets with applied pressure in the 20-40 kbar range.
Through both resistance and magnetoresistance measurements, we identify
this anomaly as a signature of induced superconductivity. Resistance to
higher pressures decreases T_(c), giving a maximum of ∼10 K. The higher
pressure measurements exhibit a strong sensitivity to the hydrostaticity
of the pressure environment. We make comparisons to the pressure-induced
superconductivity now ubiquitous in the iron arsenides.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.81.184509 PACS number(s): 74.25.Dw, 74.72.-h,
74.62.Fj, 74.25.F-

## I Introduction

The recently discovered class of iron arsenide superconductors have been
compared to the high-T_(c) copper oxide superconductors based on the
proximity of the superconducting dome to an antiferromagnetic phase in
the doping phase diagram and the planarlike sheets in which the
superconductivity lies.[1] In both classes of high-T_(c) families, the
phase diagram exhibits a large range of structural, charge, and magnetic
instabilities that manifest themselves more strongly in one specific
compound or at a particular doping than another. Given the complexities
of understanding how physical parameters are changed by chemical doping,
pressure has been sought as a laboratory controlled variable to tune a
single parent compound across the phase diagram. In the iron arsenide
compounds, pressure-induced superconductivity has already been found in
CaFe₂As₂,[2] BaFe₂As₂,[3] SrFe₂As₂,[3] and LaFeAsO.[4] The
pressure-induced superconductivity appears as the tetragonal to
orthorhombic structural transition temperature is lowered and the
associated spin- and charge-density-wave transitions weaken.[5] In the
cuprates, by contrast, pressure-induced superconductivity of the parent,
or weakly doped, compounds has not been found.

Similar to the iron arsenide compounds, there are several mechanisms by
which pressure could induce metallicity in the cuprate parent
insulators. By decreasing the Cu-O bond distance, the Cu_(d)-O_(p)
hybridization increases and the Cu_(d) band further delocalizes. Second,
the relatively higher c-axis compressibility facilitates electron or
hole doping by bringing the chemically substituted charge reservoir
layers closer to the Cu-O plane.[9] Preferred compression along the
layered c axis also increases the interlayer tunneling matrix element
(t⊥).[6, 7] Finally, contraction of the lattice changes
electron-electron and electron-phonon interactions by varying both
electron screening and crystal fields.[8]

Past pressure experiments on superconducting Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O₈ (Bi2212) have
indeed shown significant increase in T_(c) on the underdoped side of the
superconducting dome,[8] attributed to a pressure-induced doping as
inferred from Hall effect measurements.[9] However, pressure leads to
higher T_(c)’s for even overdoped Bi2212 compounds, which suggests that
the strength of the Cooper-pair coupling also changes.[8] Similar
results are found for YBa₂Cu₃O₇.[9, 10, 11, 12] The sensitivity of the
c-axis resistivity in Bi₂Sr₂(Ca,Y)Cu₂O₈ and YBa₂Cu₃O₇ to uniaxial
pressure has been attributed to increased interlayer tunneling t⊥.[6, 7]

Recently, pressure has tuned insulating Bi2212 across an electronic
transition seen by Raman spectroscopy at high (200 kbar) pressures.[13]
The electronic transition coincides with a change in the behavior of the
magnons, the phonons, and the c/a lattice constant ratio. So far,
however, pressure-induced superconductivity has not been reported in a
parent cuprate compound. In this work, we study the effect of pressure
on insulating Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O₈ in resistance measurements using two
different Bridgman-anvil cell setups and a diamond-anvil cell (DAC). We
identify a broad downturn at ∼8−10 K occurring at ∼30 kbar, as a
signature of induced superconductivity. In all three experiments, the
resistive downturn indicative of superconductivity is observed to have
an onset in the 20-40 kbar range. However, the high-pressure range
(above 40 kbar) differs due to the variations in hydrostaticity. A
higher c-axis stress is correlated with a more extended range of induced
superconductivity and an enhanced metallic behavior. Finally, we compare
these results to the pressure-induced superconductivity seen in the iron
arsenides.

## II Experimental details

Single crystals of Bi_(1.98)Sr_(2.06)Y_(0.68)Cu₂O_(8 + δ) (Bi2212) were
grown by the floating-zone method and have a doping dependence of T_(c)
described by Maeda[14] and Terasaki.[15] Given the sensitivity of these
samples to the hydrostaticity of the pressure environment, we report
results using three different pressure configurations. In all three of
the anvil cells, the a, b plane of the sample is placed on the flat
surface of the anvil, such that the c axis lies along the central axis
of the anvil, and the contacts are placed on top of one of the a, b
planes to measure a combination of the a, b resistance. In the first, a
sample of 1 x 0.25 x 0.025 mm3 was loaded in a beryllium-copper
Bridgman-anvil clamped cell (BAC1) using solid steatite as the
quasihydrostatic pressure transmitting medium. The pressure was
determined from the superconducting transition of a strip of Pb foil
placed adjacent to the sample. Electrical resistivity was measured with
a standard four-point technique and a LR-700 ac resistance bridge using
four flattened 50 μm platinum wires for each the sample and the Pb.
Silver pads of DuPont 7095 silver paste were made in order to achieve
better electrical contacts. This was the most hydrostatic configuration
achieved. In the second configuration, a sample of 0.8 x 0.2 x 0.02 mm3
(legth width height (LWH) was also loaded into a Bridgman anvil cell
(BAC2) next to a Pb manometer. Calcium sulfate powder served as a
transparent pressure medium instead. The electrical contacts for the
sample and Pb manometer were obtained as in the BAC1 experiment. The
magnetoresistance measurements reported for BAC2 were preformed with a
Quantum Design physical property measurement system (PPMS) instrument.
In BAC2, we report results from the two-point measurements alone due to
complications with a nonhomogeneous pressure environment. The width of
the Pb transition is a measure of pressure inhomogeneity along the Pb
manometer: +- 2 kbar in BAC1 and +- 5 kbar in BAC2. In the third
configuration, the samples were loaded into a DAC with argon gas as the
pressure transmitting medium. The  0.03 x 0.03 x 0.005 mm3 Bi2212
samples were glued onto one of the diamond anvils and Pt leads were,
with a focus ion beam, milled directly onto the top and side surfaces of
the sample in a four-point configuration and then extended along the
diamond to meet the gasket leads. The gasket was made of a boron
nitride/epoxy mixture and ruby chips served as pressure markers. In the
DAC, measurements of ruby chips placed at opposite ends of the sample
estimate the degree of nonhydrostaticity/_c_-axis uniaxial pressure to
be 20 kbar at the highest pressures. In all experimental configurations,
pressure was increased at room temperature; pressure values were
recorded at low temperature since the pressure remains almost constant
below 100 K.

From BAC1 to BAC2 to the DAC experiments, the degree of
nonhydrostaticity/_c_-axis uniaxial stress, increases. The contact
configuration and pressure medium determine the level of
hydrostaticity.16 In BAC1, steatite and thin Pt wires are used as
opposed to the less hydrostatic calcium sulfate and thicker Pt wires in
BAC2. In the DAC experiments, while argon can be more hydrostatic than a
solid powder medium in the lower pressure ranges, it solidifies at the
measured temperatures and pressures (below 80 K at ambient
pressure).17,18 Moreover, in the DAC experiments, the sample is glued to
the diamond surface on which the Pt leads are milled; only one side of
the sample sees the quasihydrostatic medium. While the DAC configuration
has the least hydrostatic environment, it makes pressures in the 100’s
kbar range available. The pressure gradients measured via ruby
fluorescence measurements in the DAC (20 kbar), and the width of the Pb
superconducting transition in BAC1 (2 kbar) and BAC2 (5 kbar)
corroborate these assessments.

## III Results

Figure 1 shows the temperature-dependent resistance of the sample loaded
in BAC1 at different pressures. By 15 kbar, the insulating
characteristic of the unpressurized sample has become a downturn below 8
K of 50 Ω. With increasing pressure, the T_(c) of the downturn lowers
and the magnitude decreases (see inset). By 36 kbar, the T_(c) decreases
to 2 K, and by 40 kbar, the sample is completely insulating to 1.8 K.
Above 8 K, the insulating rise initially decreases with pressure,
indicating a more metallic sample, but increases significantly beyond
 30 kbar along with the overall resistance.

Figure 2 shows the temperature-dependent resistance and
magnetoresistance of the sample loaded in BAC2 at different pressures.
In Fig. 2(a), the resistance decreases by four orders of magnitude
between 8 and 25 kbar. Though not as pronounced as in BAC1, the
insulating characteristic becomes a downturn at low temperatures–most
pronounced at 25 kbar [Fig. 2(b)] but also apparent at 8 kbar [see inset
to Fig. 2(a)]. In these experiments, we applied a magnetic field and
found that the resistive anomaly was almost totally suppressed with an
applied field of 9 T [Fig. 2(b)]. We use this positive magnetoresistance
(increasing resistance with applied magnetic field) as another measure
of the induced superconductivity. Since the magnon peak is not
suppressed in this pressure range, as seen earlier by pressure-dependent
Raman studies,13 the positive magnetoresistance cannot be attributed to
a suppression of short-range antiferromagnetic

Figure 1: (Color online) Resistance vs temperature shown on a log scale
for different pressures for Bi1.9sSr2.06Y0.6sCu2O8+_δ_ loaded in BAC1.
Inset: low temperature resistance drop on a linear scale for selected
pressures.

order.[19] We show sweeps in magnetic field for several pressures at 1.8
K in Fig. 2(d). The largest magnetoresistance is observed in the range
of 30 kbar and decreases significantly beyond 40 kbar. Like in BAC1,
then, the induced signatures of superconductivity disappear with
continued increase in pressure. The high magnetoresistance occurs for
those pressures that show either a flattening or a downturn of the
resistance at low temperatures [Fig. 2(c)]. Further increase in pressure
continues to make the sample more metallic [Fig. 2(c)] and in contrast
to BAC1, continues to become increasingly more metallic up to 80 kbar.
Beyond ∼50 kbar, we find a ln  T (K) dependence over two decades in
temperature. We see this same trend in the BAC1 measurements shown in
Fig. 1, in the pressure range of 14-16 kbar, where the superconductivity
is most pronounced. This same characteristic is prominent in Bi2201
samples near the dome[20] and when superconductivity is suppressed by
the application of a magnetic field in Bi2201.[21]

In both BAC1 and BAC2, the strongest signatures of superconductivity
occur below 40 kbar. In Fig. 3, we graph T_(c) vs pressure for both
cells. T_(c) is determined by the temperature at which the
high-temperature slope diverges from the low-temperature behavior. Even
at 8 kbar we find a downturn at 4 K, which suggests that as with the
pressure-induced superconductivity in the iron pnictides, T_(c) traces a
dome with pressure.[16, 22, 23, 24] In the region beyond 40 kbar, the
results in BAC1 and BAC2 differ substantially: in BAC1, we observe the
return of an insulating state, whereas in BAC2, we find resistance
curves similar to those of doped samples near the dome.

Finally, in Fig. 4, we show the results from the DAC experiments. In the
DAC we were unable to reach pressures lower than 70 kbar without
releasing the gas medium. From 70 to 140 kbar, we find a downturn again
indicating induced superconductivity. With pressure, the downturn moves
from 10 K to lower temperatures, reaching 5 K by 170 kbar. Similar to
the BAC results, beyond a certain pressure, the superconducting
signature diminishes. However, in strong contrast to the BAC results,
the superconducting signature extends to 170 kbar where in the BAC it
ends at 50 kbar. In further contrast to the BAC results, above 10 K, the
sample is purely metallic up to 300 K (see inset) and through the
highest measured pressures. We attribute this metallic behavior and
extended superconductivity to the higher c-axis stress in the DAC:
greater than in the BAC due to both the solid argon pressure medium at
low temperatures and the milled Pt wires (see experimental section). As
discussed in Sec. I, a higher c-axis stress can lead to enhanced
metallic behavior by

Figure 4: (Color online) Resistance vs temperature for
Bi_(1.98)Sr_(2.05)Y_(0.68)Cu₂O_(8 + δ) loaded in the DAC in the
low-temperature range. Inset: resistance curve at 70 kbar for the entire
temperature range.

Figure 3: T_(c) vs pressure for Bi_(1.98)Sr_(2.06)Y_(0.68)Cu₂O_(8 + δ)
loaded in BAC1 and BAC2. The lowest measured temperatures for BAC1 and
BAC2 are indicated by the dotted lines. Error bars on the pressure
points are taken from the width of the Pb superconducting transition and
indicate the uniaxial stress along the c axis.

Figure 2: (Color online) Bi_(1.98)Sr_(2.06)Y_(0.68)Cu₂O_(8 + δ) loaded
in BAC2. (a) Resistance vs temperature for two selected pressures in the
lower pressure range. (b) Magnetoresistance vs temperature for several
different magnetic fields at 25 kbar, where the low-temperature
resistive anomaly was observed. (c) Resistance vs temperature for the
higher pressure range plotted on a ln  T scale. (d) Magnetic field
sweeps for the curves shown in (c).

bringing the charge reservoir layers closer to the Cu-O plane, enhancing
interlayer tunneling, and changing electron-electron and electron-phonon
interactions through the crystal field along the c axis.

## IV Discussion and Summary

We find a signature of superconductivity occurring in insulating Bi2212
between 20-40 kbar in the BAC experiments, extending to 170 kbar in the
DAC. If one considers the parent copper oxide insulators as Mott
insulators, such a low-pressure onset of superconductivity is not
expected. A classic Mott insulator such as MnO only reaches
metallization at 100 GPa.[25] Therefore, these superconducting
signatures are not likely the result of a Mott gap collapsing through
simple hybridization of in-plane Cu-O orbitals.

Even though superconductivity seems to onset at much lower pressures,
T_(c) reaches at most 10 K. In the iron arsenide compounds, the T_(c)
under pressure has been shown to reach 30 K,[34, 26] approximately the
T_(c) of the optimally doped parent compound at ambient pressure. In our
experiments with Bi2212, T_(c) under pressure only reaches a fraction of
the optimally doped value of ∼100 K. On the other hand, it is somewhat
surprising that in both classes of high-T_(c) superconductors,
signatures of superconductivity can be seen in the form of broad
resistance curves[4, 26] by the same pressure of ∼30 kbar. One possible
outlook is that the superconductivity taking place in the copper oxides
with doping are of two forms: one that can be traced to lower pressures,
and bearing similarity to the pressure-induced superconductivity of the
iron arsenides, and another higher T_(c) superconductivity that has only
been accessed by doping so far. In the recent Raman spectroscopy
experiments carried out in Bi2212 samples under pressure, it was
possible to identify an electronic transition at 200 kbar with an
anomaly occurring in the lattice constant ratio c/a.[13] It is worth
mentioning that a similar, though more dramatic, decrease occurs in c/a
when CaFe₂As₂ enters the collapsed tetragonal state[27] at much lower
pressures.

The absence of full resistive transitions suggests that
superconductivity is induced in a small volume fraction of the sample by
a favorable combination of local sample composition and local strain.
The dopant charge is not fully donated to the Cu-O plane in these
compounds and, therefore, hole count depends on the distance of the Cu-O
plane to the dopants. Therefore sample inhomogeneity (known to be
prevalent in Bi_(1.98)Sr_(2.06)Y_(0.68)Cu₂O_(8 + δ)) and inhomogeneity
in the strain will strongly influence the percolation pathway measured
by resistivity. Phase separation could play an essential role in
determining the properties of the superconducting state, with a fraction
of the sample becoming superconducting under pressure, and the remaining
fraction remaining in the antiferromagnetic state.[28] Yet, calculations
based on the local-density approximation (taking into account the
distance of the Cu-O plane to the charge-transfer layers) suggest that
even a nominally homogeneous parent insulator can reach the dome with
modest pressures. Estimates of hole count give 0.008 holes/Cu/GPa for
both underdoped and optimally doped samples,[10] which would suggest
that a slightly doped parent insulator could reach the dome by 5 GPa
(0.05 hole/Cu) and optimal doping (0.2 hole/Cu) by 20 GPa. Further work
will be required to elucidate the precise conditions under which the
transitions reported here will spread to the bulk, but the key
finding–that signatures of superconductivity can be induced in Bi2212 by
externally applied stress–is robust.

It is unlikely that a more hydrostatic environment will induce a higher
T_(c) in the cuprates. For the largest downturn and highest T_(c)
measured in BAC1, the pressure gradients at 14 kbar approached ±5 kbar
(see Fig. 3) and only decreased at higher pressures where the
superconductivity weakened. Moreover, we attempted the same experiments
in hydrostatic piston cylinder cells and little change is observed up to
24 kbar. Such an observation is not unexpected: clear differences are
observed for CePd₂Si₂ in which anvil cells report strong enhancement of
T_(c) and a doubled pressure range in which the superconductivity occurs
compared to piston-cylinder cells.[29] Furthermore, comparisons with the
iron arsenides also suggest that a more hydrostatic environment may not
enhance T_(c). CaFe₂As₂ does not become superconducting under ideal
hydrostatic pressure conditions[16] and internal strain coming from
c-axis-orientated planar defects in SrFe₂As₂ promotes
superconductivity.[30]

Instead, one option for future experiments is to apply a purely c-axis
stress to see if a more robust superconductivity can be induced. In
particular, since the c axis has the highest compressibility and also
has the highest applied stress in the current experimental setup, one
can think of the distance between the Cu-O planes and the intervening
charge reservoir layers as tuning four separate microscopic quantities:
charge transfer and disorder (by bringing the dopants closer to the
plane), interlayer tunneling (decreasing t_(⊥)), and increasing the
crystal field across the Cu-O plane. Some of these effects, such as
charge transfer and disorder or the crystal field and charge transfer,
will compete to determine the induced superconductivity. It is an open
question whether or not these competing effects can be controlled with a
parameter other than doping to achieve the optimal T_(c) of the copper
oxide family.

## Acknowledgments

We would like to acknowledge helpful discussions with A. Kapitulnik, E.
Gregoryanz, A. Mackenzie, and M. Nunez Regueiro. T. Cuk would like to
thank the Royal Holloway, University of London for the use of facilities
and access to pressure cells. T. Cuk would also like to thank the
Carnegie Institution of Washington for the use of facilities, and
partial support of this work. The Stanford work was supported by DOE
Office of Science, Division of Materials Science, with Contract No.
DE-FG03-01ER45929-A001 and NSF under Grant No. DMR-0304981. Research at
University of California, San Diego was supported by the National
Nuclear Security Administration under the Stewardship Science Academic
Alliance Program through the U.S. Department of Energy under Grant No.
DEFG52-06NA26205.

## References

* [1] M. Rotter, M. Tegel, and D. Johrendt, Phys. Rev. Lett. **101**,
107006 (2008). * [2] M. S. Torikachvili, S. L. Bud’ko, N. Ni, and P. C.
Canfield, Phys. Rev. Lett. **101**, 057006 (2008). * [3] P. L. Alireza,
Y. T. Chris Ko, J. Gillett, C. M. Petrone, J. M. Cole, G. G. Lonzarich,
and S. E. Sebastian, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter **21**, 012208 (2009). *
[4] H. Okada, K. Igawa, H. Takahashi, Y. Kamihara, M. Hirano, H. Hosono,
K. Matsubayashi, and Y. Uwatoko, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **77**, 113712
(2008). * [5] M. S. Torikachvili, S. L. Bud’ko, N. Ni, and P. C.
Canfield, Phys. Rev. B **78**, 104527 (2008). * [6] L. Forro, V.
Ilakovac, and B. Keszei, Phys. Rev. B **41**, 9551 (1990). * [7] M. F.
Crommie, A. Y. Liu, A. Zettl, M. L. Cohen, P. Parilla, M. F. Hundley, W.
N. Creager, S. Hoen, and M. S. Sherwin, Phys. Rev. B **39**, 4231
(1989). * [8] X.-J. Chen, V. V. Struzhkin, R. J. Hemley, H. K. Mao, and
C. Kendziora, Phys. Rev. B **70**, 214502 (2004). * [9] C. Murayama, Y.
Iye, T. Enomoto, N. Mori, Y. Yamada, T. Matsumoto, Y. Kubo, Y.
Shimakawa, and T. Manako, Physica C **183**, 277 (1991). * [10] J. D.
Jorgensen, S. Pei, P. Lightfoot, D. G. Hinks, B. W. Veal, B. Dabrowski,
A. P. Paulikas, R. Kleb, and I. D. Brown, Physica C **171**, 93
(1990). * [11] S. Klotz, W. Reith, and J. S. Schilling, Physica C
**172**, 423 (1991). * [12] S. W. Tozer, J. L. Koston, and E. M.
McCarron III, Phys. Rev. B **47**, 8089 (1993). * [13] T. Cuk, V.
Struzhkin, T. P. Devereaux, A. Goncharov, C. Kendziora, H. Eisaki, H.
Mao, and Z.-X. Shen, Phys. Rev. Lett. **100**, 217003 (2008). * [14] A.
Maeda, M. Hase, I. Tsukada, K. Noda, S. Takebayashi, and K. Uchinokura,
Phys. Rev. B **41**, 6418 (1990). * [15] I. Terasaki, T. Takemura, T.
Takayanagi, and T. Kitajima, Proceedings of the 12th International
Conference on Superconductivity (ISS ’99), 1999 (unpublished). * [16] H.
Lee, E. Park, T. Park, V. A. Sidorov, F. Ronning, E. D. Bauer, and J. D.
Thompson, Phys. Rev. B **80**, 024519 (2009). * [17] N. Tateiwa and Y.
Haga, Rev. Sci. Instrum. **80**, 123901 (2009). * [18] R. J. Angel, M.
Bujak, J. Zhao, G. D. Gatta, and S. D. Jacobsen, J. Appl. Crystallogr.
**40**, 26 (2007). * [19] Long-range antiferromagnetic order has not yet
been established in Bi2212 through neutron scattering. * [20] T. W.
Jing, N. P. Ong, T. V. Ramakrishnan, J. M. Tarascon, and K. Remschnig,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **67**, 761 (1991). * [21] S. Ono, Y. Ando, T.
Murayama, F. F. Balakirev, J. B. Betts, and G. S. Boebinger, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **85**, 638 (2000). * [22] H. Takahashi, K. Igawa, K. Arii, Y.
Kamihara, M. Hirano, and H. Hosono, Nature (London) **453**, 376
(2008). * [23] D. A. Zocco, J. J. Hamlin, R. E. Baumbach, M. B. Maple,
M. A. McGuire, A. S. Sefat, B. C. Sales, R. Jin, D. Mandrus, J. R.
Jeffries, S. T. Weir, and Y. K. Vohra, Physica C **468**, 2229 (2008). *
[24] J. J. Hamlin, R. E. Baumbach, D. A. Zocco, T. A. Sayles, and M. B.
Maple, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter **20**, 365220 (2008). * [25] C. S.
Yoo, B. Maddox, J.-H. P. Klepeis, V. Iota, W. Evans, A. McMahan, M. Y.
Hu, P. Chow, M. Somayazulu, D. Hausermann, R. T. Scalettar, and W. E.
Pickett, Phys. Rev. Lett. **94**, 115502 (2005). * [26] M. Kumar, M.
Nicklas, A. Jesche, N. Caroca-Canales, M. Schmitt, M. Hanfland, D.
Kasinathan, U. Schwarz, H. Rosner, and C. Geibel, Phys. Rev. B **78**,
184516 (2008). * [27] A. I. Goldman, A. Kreyssig, K. Prokes, D. K.
Pratt, D. N. Argyriou, J. W. Lynn, S. Nandi, S. A. J. Kimber, Y. Chen,
Y. B. Lee, G. Samolyuk, J. B. Leao, S. J. Poulton, S. L. Bud’ko, N. Ni,
P. C. Canfield, B. N. Harmon, and R. J. McQueeney, Phys. Rev. B **79**,
024513 (2009). * [28] E. Sigmund, V. Hizhnyakov, R. K. Kremer, and A.
Simon, Z. Phys. B: Condens Matter **94**, 17 (1994). * [29] A. Demuer,
A. T. Holmes, and D. Jaccard, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter **14**, L529
(2002). * [30] S. R. Saha, N. P. Butch, K. Kirshenbaum, J. Paglione, and
P. Y. Zavalij, Phys. Rev. Lett. **103**, 037005 (2009).
