Specific heat of CeRhIn₅: Pressure-driven evolution of the ground state
from antiferromagnetism to superconductivity

R. A. Fisher,¹ F. Bouquet,¹ N. E. Phillips,¹ M. F. Hundley,² P. G.
Pagliuso,² J. L. Sarrao,² Z. Fisk,³ and J. D. Thompson²

¹Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory and Department of Chemistry,
University of California, Berkeley, California 94720

²Los Alamos National Laboratory, Los Alamos, New Mexico 87545

³NIMFL Florida State University, Tallahassee, Florida 32306

Received 1 April 2002; published 31 May 2002

###### Abstract

Resistivity measurements on CeRhIn₅ have suggested an unusual
"first-order-like" transition from antiferromagnetism to
superconductivity at a critical pressure P_(c), ∼15 kbar: At pressures
below P_(c) the magnetic ordering temperature is approximately
independent of pressure. At P_(c) antiferromagnetism disappears abruptly
and is replaced by superconductivity, with a critical temperature that
is also approximately independent of pressure. Here we report
measurements of the low-temperature specific heat of CeRhIn₅ at
pressures to 21 kbar, and for 21 kbar in magnetic fields to 70 kOe. They
confirm, by measurement of a bulk thermodynamic property, the unusual
relation between magnetism and superconductivity, and permit an estimate
of the discontinuity in entropy at P_(c). They also give insight into
the natures of the antiferromagnetic and superconducting states and
their changes with pressure: With increasing pressure the zero-field
specific-heat anomaly changes from one typical of antiferromagnetic
ordering at ambient pressure to one more characteristic of the formation
of a Kondo singlet ground state at 21 kbar. The change in general shape
of the anomaly is gradual, but at P_(c), where the data suggest a weak
thermodynamic first-order transition, there is a discontinuous change
from an antiferromagnetic ground state to a superconducting ground
state. Below P_(c) the quasiparticle density of states increases and the
spin-wave stiffness decreases with increasing pressure. At P_(c) the
low-energy magnetic excitations disappear and are replaced by
excitations that are characteristic of superconductivity with line nodes
in the energy gap. The quasiparticle density of states is continuous at
P_(c), but decreases with increasing pressure, to zero at 21 kbar. These
features suggest the possibility of superconductivity with d-wave
pairing and, at intermediate pressures, "extended gaplessness." At 21
kbar except for the line nodes, the Fermi surface is fully gapped. The
specific-heat data also show the existence of a second-order transition
in the 11-12-kbar region, where features in the magnetic susceptibility
and resistivity have been observed.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.65.224509 PACS number(s): 74.25.Bt, 74.70.Tx,
75.50.Ee, 75.40.Cx 1

The occurrence of superconducting (SC) heavy-fermion (HF) compounds
provides a unique opportunity for investigating the relation between
magnetism and superconductivity, particularly the possibility of
magnetically mediated pairing of the electrons. In magnetic HF compounds
there is a competition between magnetic order, driven by the
Ruderman-Kittel-Kasuya-Yosida (RKKY) interaction, and the spin-singlet
ground state, favored by the Kondo interaction.¹ Both interactions are
governed by the local-moment−conduction-electron exchange |J|, but the
dependence on |J| is different, quadratic for the RKKY and exponential
for the Kondo interaction. Since ∂⟨J|/∂P > 0, the application of
pressure (P) can reduce the magnitude of the ordered magnetic moments
and lower the ordering temperature. For appropriate values of the
relevant parameters the Neel temperature (T_(N)) of an antiferromagnetic
(AF) HF compound, and the Curie temperature (T_(C)) of a ferromagnetic
(FM) HF compound can be driven to zero at a critical pressure (P_(c)).
There has been considerable speculation that superconductivity might
appear at that quantum critical point (QCP) with the electron pairing
mediated by strong magnetic fluctuations, but the number of likely
examples is small, presumably because the conditions that must be
satisfied for superconductivity to be realized are so restrictive. Those
conditions and the relevant concepts have been summarized in the context
of the observed superconductivity in AF CePd₂Si₂ and CeIn₃, and a
general phase diagram proposed.² The properties at AF and FM QCP’s might
be expected to be different, but, although the phase diagram for FM UGe₂
differs in detail from those for CePd₂Si₂ and CeIn₃, ³ it is remarkably
similar in general form. For all three of these materials the critical
temperature for magnetic ordering approaches zero at P_(c), and
superconductivity appears in a narrow window of P with a strongly
P-dependent critical temperature (T_(c)), in accord with a model² in
which a "continuous" transition at P_(c) is a condition for the
occurrence of superconductivity. Antiferromagnetic CeRhIn₅, for which
resistivity measurements have shown a phase diagram of a very different
form,⁴ presents a striking contrast with those materials and with
theoretical considerations generally: T_(N), ∼4 K, is only weakly
dependent on P to 14.5 kbar; at the next higher P, 16.3 kbar, the
signature of AF order has disappeared and superconductivity, with an
essentially P-independent T_(c) of ∼2 K, appears. This phase diagram is
qualitatively different from that of any other Ce HF compound, and,
although the thermodynamic nature of the transition cannot be
unequivocally determined from transport properties, the abrupt change at
P_(c) suggests a "first-order-like transition."⁴

Measurements of the specific heat (C) can give information about the
thermodynamic nature of the transition and low-T excitations relevant to
an understanding of the relation between magnetism and
superconductivity, information that is not obtained from the more usual
measurements of resistivity and magnetization. The measurements reported
here show that the superconductivity is a bulk property, and
characterize its nature. They determine the quasiparticle density of
states and the nature of the other low-energy excitations, thereby
identifying the ground states throughout the range of P. The ground
states, AF below _P__(c) and HF/SC above, both evolve continuously with
increasing P, but at _P__(c) there is a discontinuous change: Long-range
AF order disappears and superconductivity appears. Some of the low-_T_
entropy associated with magnetic degrees of freedom at P = 0 appears as
entropy of typical HF-SC excitations at P > _P__(c). The data suggest,
within the limits of resolution imposed by the discrete values of P, the
occurrence of a weak thermodynamic first-order transition at _P__(c).

The sample, consisting of small, randomly oriented crystals, was
contained in a clamped pressure cell with AgCl as the
pressure-transmitting medium, and Sn and Pb manometers, one at each end
of the sample. The pressure differences between the two ends of the
sample were at most 0.2 kbar.

Zero-field measurements of C are shown in Fig. 1 for representative
values of P. (In all figures, results associated with the AF phase are
represented by solid symbols, with the SC phase by open symbols.) The
lattice heat capacity (_C_lat), taken to be the same as that of LaRhIn₅,
[4] and shown in Fig. 1, was subtracted from C to obtain the "electron"
contribution (C_(e)), shown on an expanded scale in Fig. 2. With
increasing P the "magnetic" specific-heat anomaly, which is associated
with AF ordering at ambient pressure, becomes broadened and reduced in
amplitude. A second anomaly, associated with the transition to the SC
state, first appears as a small irregularity at 16 kbar (in data that
are too close to those at 16.5 kbar to be included in the figures). It
grows to a "shoulder" on the magnetic anomaly at 16.5 kbar and reaches
its maximum amplitude at 19 kbar. The data permit plausible
extrapolations to T = 0, and the entropy (S_(e)) calculated at 12 K has
the same value for all P to within +-2

Characteristic temperatures derived from C_(e) and r are compared in
Fig. 3. The temperature of the maximum (_T_max) of the magnetic anomaly
in _C__e_/_T_ tracks the T_(N) deduced from r (including the small
increase at low _P_) for _P__(c) 10 kbar, but then shifts to lower T.
(At 12 kbar T_(N), determined by nuclear quadrupole resonance (NQR)
measurements, [5] is close to _T_max.) For P >= _P__(c), _T_max is close
to the unidentified feature [4] in r at _T__(s). (Evidently measurements
of r detect two features in the 9-15-kbar region that are not resolved
in measurements of C_(e).) Values of T_(c), taken as the midpoints of
entropy-conserving constructions on _C__e_/_T_ (see, e.g., Fig. 4), are
in good agreement with the values determined from r, which correspond to
the onset of superconductivity.

For P = 21 kbar and H = 0, 50, and 70 kOe, the specific heat is shown in
Fig. 4. The values of T_(c)(_H_) obtained from the data do not extend to
sufficiently high values of H to establish unambiguously the form of
_H__c_2(_T_) over a wide interval in T, but with the assumption of a
parabolic T dependence they extrapolate to _H__c_2(0) = 159 kOe (see
Fig. 5) with a statistical uncertainty of  20 kOe. This value, which is
in satisfactory agreement with the 152 kOe estimated from resistivity
data, [4] far exceeds the Pauli limit, [6]H_(ρ)(0)  39 kOe. For T <
T_(c)(_H_), C_(e)(_H_) = _g_(_H_)_T_ + B2(_H_)_T_2, and extrapolations
to 0 K give the same S_(e), 0.99 mJ K⁻¹ mol⁻¹, at T_(c)(0), 2.12 K, to
within +-1

Figure 3: Phase diagram for CeRhIn₅ constructed from C data and r data
from Ref. [4] (see the text).

Figure 2: C_(e) for P # 0. Data for 16 kbar are omitted for clarity.

UPt₃. [8] The B₂(0) T² term is associated with line nodes in the energy
gap and an "unconventional" order parameter. [9] Although line nodes can
arise from extended s-wave pairing, they are commonly attributed to a
d-wave order parameter in HF compounds. [9] The corresponding power-law
T dependence for nuclear-spin-relaxation times [9] has been seen [6, 10]
in NQR measurements. For this pressure, and to within the experimental
uncertainty, [11]γ(0) = 0 and C_(e) in the superconducting state
(C_(ex)) is C_(ex) = B₂(0) T². The value of γ(0) shows that the Fermi
surface (except for the line nodes) is fully gapped. For T ≈ T_(c)(H),
C_(e)(H) and S_(e)(H) conform to expectations for superconducting
material, and any additional contributions to C_(e) must be negligible.
By that criterion, the superconductivity at 21 kbar is complete as well
as bulk.

C_(e) in the normal state (C_(en)) is defined to within narrow limits at
21 kbar (see Fig. 4): For T  > T_(c)(H), C_(en) is independent of H and
determined by the 70-kOe data to 1.7 K. In Fig. 6(b) it is shown that
γ(H) is approximately proportional to H, and extrapolation to H_(c2)(0)
gives γ = 382 mJ K⁻² mol⁻¹ for the normal-state value, the 0-K intercept
of C_(en)/T in Fig. 4. (For internal consistency the values of γ and
some other parameters are given to more significant figures than
warranted by the data.) The interpolation between 1.7 and 0 K must give
the same S_(e)(T_(c)) as that given by the data for H = 0, 50, and 70
kOe. The curve in Fig. 5 is a smooth, plausible interpolation that
satisfies this condition on the area under the curve. It is almost
unique among such possibilities in the sense that any curve that is free
of irregular peaks and dips and satisfies this constraint would have to
be very similar. Its shape is similar to that of the Kondo
singlet-ground-state ordering in some other HF compounds, e.g., URu₂Si₂
(Ref. [7]) and CeAl₃, [12] and conspicuously different from that
characteristic of AF ordering. Its H independence also suggests that the
"magnetic" anomaly in C_(e) is not associated with AF ordering at this
pressure.

The discontinuity in C_(e) at T_(c) is relatively small:
β = Δ C_(e)(T_(c))/C_(en)(T_(c)) = [ C_(ex)(T_(c)) − C_(en)(T_(c)) ]/C_(ex)(T_(c))
is 1.43 for a BCS superconductor and ∼1 to 1.5 for a number of HF
superconductors, but only 0.36 for CeRhIn₅. However, the small value is
a direct consequence of the T dependence of C_(en) , the T dependence of
C_(ex) , and the thermodynamic requirement that the entropies of the
superconducting and normal states be equal at T_(c) :
S_(ex)(T_(c)) = S_(en)(T_(c)) = S_(e)(T_(c)). This requires no
independent microscopic interpretation. If C_(ex) =B₂(0) T² and
C_(en) = γT, with γ constant, the equality of entropies at T_(c)
requires that β = 1. For CeRhIn₅ , as for many other HF superconductors,
C_(en) does not correspond to a constant density of quasiparticle
states, and must be represented by a T-dependent γ^(′), defined by
C_(en)(T) ≡ γ^(′)(T)T. In this case, β = B₂(0) T_(c)/γ^(′)(T_(c)) − 1,
which is 0.36 for CeRhIn₅ , as observed. The value of γ^(′)(0) was
determined independently, and the interpolation to the value of C_(en)/T
to 1.7 K in Fig. 4 was drawn to satisfy the requirement that
S_(en)(T_(c)) =S_(ex)(T_(c)). However, the thermodynamic argument can be
turned around to show that the small value of β supports the derived
value of γ^(′)(0) and the interpolation: The area under the curve for
C_(en)/T has to be that shown in Fig. 4. CeRhIn₅ is evidently a somewhat
extreme case in which γ^(′) is still strongly T dependent at T_(c) , but
it is not qualitatively different from, e.g., URu₂Si₂ for which the
deviation of γ^(′)(T) from γ^(′) (T_(c)) is less precipitous and only 20

Figure 4: C_(e)(H) at 21 kbar Normal-, mixed-, and superconducting-state
data for C_(e)(H), with an extrapolation of the normal-state data to 0 K
that is consistent with the superconducting-state entropy at T_(c) and
the normal-state γ, γ(H_(c2)) or γ^(′)(0). The insets show C_(e)(H) for
50 and 70 kOe.

Figure 5: H_(c2)(T) vs T for P = 21 kbar. The curve represents a
parabolic fit to the data (see the text).

Although the magnetic anomaly in C_(e) evolves with increasing P without
a discernable discontinuity in its general shape, the T dependence of
C_(e) at low T is discontinuous at P_(c) , as is apparent in Figs. 1(a)
and 2, where C_(e)/T shows a positive curvature for P <  P_(c) , but a
zero curvature for P>  P_(c) as T → 0. For all P, the lowest-order term
in C_(e) is γ(H)T. For P <  P_(c) , the second term is
$B_{\rm AFSW}(H)T^{3}$ [Fig. 1(c)], which corresponds to the spin-wave
(SW) contribution expected for an antiferromagnet; for P >  P_(c) , it
is B₂(H)T² [Fig. 1(b)], which is characteristic of certain heavy-fermion
superconductors. With increasing P, $B_{\rm AFSW}(0)$ increases
monotonically through the AF region, corresponding to a linear-in-P
decrease in the spin-wave stiffness, which is proportional to the
product of the moment and the exchange interaction. The decrease in
spin-wave stiffness, represented in Fig. 7 as $(1/B_{\rm AFSW})^{1/3}$
vs P, amounts to 30

The experimental AF values are interpolated to the 21-kbar normal-state
value, which was derived from the mixed-state data; the experimental SC
values are extrapolated to the AF curve at 15 kbar, the approximate
value of P_(c) deduced from resistivity measurements.[4] The resulting
curves represent a normal-state γ, which measures the density of
low-energy quasiparticle excitations, that increases monotonically from
ambient pressure to 21 kbar. In zero field and P ≈  P_(c) , there is a
transition to the superconducting state, but it leaves a "residual" γ(0)
that varies between the full normal-state value at P_(c) and zero at 21
kbar.

On the SC side of the phase boundary at P_(c) , γ(0) is the same in the
SC and normal states and ΔC_(e)(T_(c)) = 0. With increasing P, γ(0) → 0
and ΔC_(e)(T_(c)) increases, but with essentially no increase in T_(c) .
The extended gapless regions on the Fermi surface of superconductors
with d_(x² − y²) pairing[13] suggest a possible basis for understanding
this behavior: Below a critical value of the pairing potential the gap
vanishes and there is a finite density of low-energy quasiparticle
states, γ(0) ≠ 0. With increases in the pairing potential the gap
appears and increases in amplitude, and the quasiparticle density of
states decreases. For sufficiently high gap amplitudes the quasiparticle
density of states approaches zero. The observed relation between
ΔC_(e)(T_(c)) and γ(0) would correspond to an increase in the gap
amplitude and pairing potential with increasing P.

Isotherms, S_(e)(P) vs P, obtained by integration of C_(e)(T)/T to
obtain S_(e)(T) and interpolation to fixed T’s, are shown in Fig. 9.
They are related to the volume thermal expansion (α), which is
proportional to (∂S_(e)/∂P)_(T) in magnitude but opposite in sign.
Although the isotherms show that α is negative in most of the range of P
and T they are consistent with the positive values reported[14] at
ambient pressure and temperatures above 1 K. The isotherms reveal
interesting features near 12 and 15 kbar, which are emphasized in Fig. 9
by three straight-line segments that connect data points in limited
intervals of pressure. The straight lines represent discontinuities, in
(∂S_(e)/∂P)_(T) near 12 kbar and in S_(e) at 15 kbar, which correspond,
respectively, to second- and first-order thermodynamic transitions. For
any one isotherm the features at 12 and 15 kbar, represented by the
straight lines, are comparable in magnitude to the deviations of the
points from

Figure 8: B₂(P) vs P. Above 19 kbar B₂(P) is constant to within
experimental uncertainty. The straight lines are arbitrary
interpolations and extrapolations.

Figure 7: The coefficient of the AF spin-wave term in C_(e) ,
$B_{\rm AFSW}$ , plotted as $(1/B_{\rm AFSW})^{1/3}$ vs P to demonstrate
the linear-in-P decrease in the AF spin-wave stiffness (see the text).

Figure 9: Isotherms of S_(e)(P) vs P showing features at 12 and 15 kbar
which are emphasized by the straight-line approximations (see the text).

a smooth curve that might be drawn as an approximate fit to all the
points. However, both their systematic variations from one isotherm to
the next, which are shown in Fig. 10, and their relation to other
properties (see below) attest the reality of structure at least
qualitatively similar to that represented by the lines. Furthermore,
both discontinuities extrapolate to zero at T = 0, as required by the
third law of thermodynamics, and both tend to small numerical values at
temperatures above that of the magnetic ordering, as might be expected
if they were associated with the magnetic ordering. The striking
similarity of the temperature dependence of Δ(∂S_(e)/∂P)_(T) to that of
ΔS_(e) suggests a more direct relation between the two transitions than
might be expected for a common origin in the magnetic properties alone,
but there is no obvious independent evidence of that.

The feature near 12 kbar, the better defined of the two, is a
discontinuity in (∂S_(e)/∂P)_(T), which corresponds to a discontinuous
increase in the magnitude of α, which is negative, and a second-order
transition. The phase boundary, represented by the nearly vertical solid
line in Fig. 9, is defined by the intersections of the straight-line
segments of the isotherms, which occur at 12.0 and 11.2 kbar at 0.5 and
4.5 K, respectively. This is a region of the phase diagram in which
features in the resistivity and susceptibility have been observed,[4]
and also where $T_{\rm max}$ starts to deviate from its low-P value (see
Fig. 3). With the slope of the phase boundary and the Ehrenfest
relation, the maximum value of Δ(∂S_(e)/∂P)_(T) gives a maximum
discontinuity in C of ∼50 mJ K⁻¹ mol⁻¹. The experimental data do not
permit a meaningful quantitative comparison, but they are not
inconsistent with that value.

The feature at 15 kbar is less well defined, but the points above and
below 15 kbar cannot be connected by smooth curves without a change in
sign of the curvature. The vertical dashed line in Fig. 9 represents a
phase boundary at P_(c) = 15 kbar, as defined by the construction in
Fig. 6, and taken to be independent of T. The straight-line
representations of the isotherms then correspond to a finite ΔS_(e) at
P_(c), and a first-order transition from a low-P phase, which must have
the larger volume, to a high-P phase that has a lower S_(e). The values
of −ΔS_(e) reach a maximum, ∼ 0.13 J K⁻¹ mol⁻¹ = 0.022R ln 2, near 3 K,
and extrapolate to zero near 4.5 K. At 1 K and below, they correspond,
to within a factor 2, to the extrapolations to P_(c) of the low-T terms
in C_(e) depicted in Figs. 6, 7, and 8. The vertical phase boundary
drawn in Fig. 3 would imply a zero change in volume at P_(c); a slope of
2 K kbar⁻¹ would correspond to a maximum fractional change in volume of
∼ 3 × 10⁻⁵. This interpretation of the isotherms corresponds to a
transition from the AF state to the SC state that includes a small
first-order component, which terminates at a critical point in the
vicinity of the magnetic ordering temperature. This is supported by its
consistency with other properties of the system, as well as by the
systematic variation with T of the values of ΔS_(e) obtained by the
straight-line constructions in Fig. 9. The plausibility of this
interpretation of the isotherms notwithstanding, it must be recognized
that the points on the isotherms are not sufficiently closely spaced in
P to define precisely the interval in which ΔS_(e) occurs. The data do
not distinguish between a "sharp" transition that takes place in a few
tenths of a kilobar, a width that might be attributed to sample and
pressure inhomogeneities, and a broader feature in S_(e) that is not a
thermodynamic phase transition. In the latter case the values of ΔS_(e)
would be measures of the discrepancies between the values of S_(e) at
P_(c) obtained by extrapolations from higher and lower pressures.
However, as such, they would still be relevant to understanding the
"transition." Furthermore, they would put an upper limit to the entropy
discontinuity accompanying any "real" first-order transition.

We are grateful to A. V. Balatsky and V. Z. Kresin for helpful
discussions. The work at LBNL was supported by the Director, Office of
Basic Energy Sciences, Materials Sciences Division of the U.S. DOE under
Contract No. DE-AC03-76SF00098. The work at LANL was performed under the
auspices of the U.S. DOE. Z.F. acknowledges support through NSF Grant
Nos. DMR-9870034 and DMR-9971348.

## References

* [1] S. Doniach, in _Valence Instabilities and Related Narrow Band
Phenomena_, edited by R. D. Parks (Plenum, New York, 1977), p. 169. *
[2] N. D. Mathur, F. M. Grosche, S. R. Julian, I. R. Walder, D. M.
Freye, R. K. W. Haselwimmer, and G. G. Lonzarich, Nature (London)
**394**, 39 (1998). * [3] S. S. Saxena, P. Agarwal, K. Ahilan, F. M.
Grosche, R. K. W. Haselwimmer, M. J. Steiner, E. Pugh, I. R. Walker, S.
R. Julian,

Figure 10: The T dependence of the features represented by the
straight-line approximations to the isotherms in Fig. 9. (a)
$\Delta\big{[}\left(\partial S/\partial P\right)_{T}\big{]}$ vs P in the
11–12-kbar region, which corresponds to a second-order transition. (b)
ΔS_(e) vs P at P_(c) = 15 kbar which corresponds to a weak first-order
transition from the AF state to the SC state.

P. Monthoux, G. G. Lonzarich, A. Huxley, I. Sheikin, D. Braithwaite, and
J. Flouquet, Nature (London) **406**, 587 (2000). * [4] H. Hegger, C.
Petrovic, E. G. Moshopoulou, M. F. Hundley, J. L. Sarrao, Z. Fisk, and
J. D. Thompson, Phys. Rev. Lett. **84**, 4986 (2000). * [5] T. Mito, S.
Kawasaki, G.-Q. Zheng, Y. Kawasaki, K. Ishida, Y. Kitaoka, D. Aoki, Y.
Haga, and Y. Onuki, Phys. Rev. B **63**, 220507(R) (2001). * [6] A. M.
Clogston, Phys. Rev. Lett. **9**, 2669 (1962). * [7] R. A. Fisher, S.
Kim, Y. Wu, N. E. Phillips, M. W. McElfresh, M. S. Torikachvili, and M.
B. Maple, Physica B **163**, 419 (1990). * [8] R. A. Fisher, S. Kim, B.
F. Woodfield, N. E. Phillips, L. Taillefer, K. Hasselbach, J. Flouquet,
A. L. Giorgi, and J. L. Smith, Phys. Rev. Lett. **62**, 1411 (1989). *
[9] R. H. Heffner and M. R. Norman, Comments Condens. Matter Phys.
**17**, 325 (1996). * [10] Y. Kohori, Y. Yamato, Y. Iwamoto, and T.
Kohara, Eur. Phys. J. B **18**, 601 (2000). * [11] A fit to all of the
21-kbar points at or below the maximum in C/T gives γ(0) = 5.4(11) mJ
K⁻² mol⁻¹ and B₂(0) = 436(7) mJ K⁻³ mol⁻¹; with omission of the lowest
point, which is conspicuously high, γ(0) =  − 0.2(11) and B₂(0) = 440(7)
mJ K⁻³ mol⁻¹. For comparison, the fit to the more precise 19-kbar data,
below 1.6 K, gives γ(0) = 39(3) mJ K⁻² mol⁻¹ and B₂(0) = 443(3) mJ K⁻³
mol⁻¹. * [12] G. E. Brodale, R. A. Fisher, N. E. Phillips, J. Flouquet,
and C. Marcenat, J. Magn. Magn. Mater. **54-57**, 419 (1986). * [13] S.
Haas, A. V. Balatsky, M. Sigrist, and T. M. Rice, Phys. Rev. B **56**,
5108 (1997). * [14] T. Takeuchi, T. Inoue, K. Sugiyama, D. Aoki, Y.
Tokiwa, Y. Haga, K. Kindo, and Y. Onuki, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **70**, 877
(2001).
