Evidence for superconductivity at T_(c) = 12 K in oxygen-deficient
MoO_(2 − δ) and properties of molybdenum arsenide and oxide binaries

D. Parker,¹ J. C. Idrobo,² C. Cantoni,¹ and A. S. Sefat¹

¹Materials Science & Technology Division, Oak Ridge National Laboratory,
Oak Ridge, Tennessee 37831, USA

²Center for Nanophase Materials Science Division, Oak Ridge National
Laboratory, Oak Ridge, Tennessee 37831, USA

Received 8 April 2014; revised manuscript received 22 July 2014;
published 7 August 2014

###### Abstract

We find signatures of superconductivity at T_(c) = 12 K in a molybdenum
arsenide sample containing ∼4

pacs: DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.90.054505 + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL
REVIEW B **90**, 054505 (2014)

## I Introduction

The families of iron-based superconductors (FeSC), such as those based
on LaFeAsO, BaFe₂As₂, LiFeAs, and Sr₄V₂O₆Fe₂As₂, share common structural
building blocks of iron arsenides (FeAs) [1]. The thermodynamic and
transport properties of numerous transition-metal TAs binaries found
VAs, CrAs and CoAs (3d), and RuAs (4d) as proxy compositions for likely
superconductivity [2], while superconductivity was reported in 25

No superconductivity has been observed in any of the binaries of Mo₂As₃,
Mo₅As₄, or MoO₂. For Mo₂As₃ and MoO₂, the structures are made of
networks of Mo-centered octahedra, while they are square planar and
square pyramidal for Mo₅As₄ (Fig. 1). Mo₂As₃ crystallizes in monoclinic
lattice (C2/m space group) [4] and is diamagnetic [5]. Mo₃As₄ has
tetragonal lattice (I4/m) [6] and is reported to change from a
diamagnetic to a paramagnetic state at ∼250 K [5]. MoO₂ crystallizes in
a monoclinic lattice (P2₁/c) [7], and is Pauli paramagnet metal with
ρ ≈ 10⁻⁴ ohm cm at 300 K and 10⁻⁶ ohm cm at 4 K [8]. Superconductivity
is observed in bcc elemental Mo with T_(c) = 0.9 K, and the trigonal
Chevrel ternaries of A_(x)Mo₆X₈ (A = any element; X = Se, Se, or Te)
reaching T_(c)≈15 K [9]. For a potassium-doped oxygen-deficient
K_(x)MoO_(2 − δ) ternary, x = 0.05 and δ = 0.37 (monoclinic MoO₂
structure, interstitial K) signature of superconductivity was evident at
T_(c) = 6.5 K (at 200 Oe) in magnetic susceptibility with ∼4

Below is a report on the density functional theory (DFT) electronic
structure calculations, structures analyses, and thermodynamic and
transport properties on stoichiometric Mo₂As₃, Mo₅As₄, and MoO₂, in
order to uncover the reasons for superconductivity for a sample that
contains a mixture of these phases. Experimental results include
temperature-dependent electrical transport and heat capacity, and
temperature- and field-dependent magnetization data.

## II Experimental Procedure

Polycrystalline samples of Mo₂As₃ and Mo₅As₄ were prepared by following
several solid-state heating reactions, strictly in evacuated silica
ampoules, and using the appropriate stoichiometric molar amounts of 2:3
and 5:4, respectively, of reduced Mo:As elemental ratios. For the
synthesis of these binary materials, and because of the volatility of
arsenic, slow heating was done. First, elemental powders were heated to
350 degC (50 degC/h; hold 5 h), to 600 degC (30 degC/h; hold 20 h), then
to 650 degC (20 degC/h; hold 40 h), followed by furnace shut-down. The
resulting mixtures were pelletized, and annealed a second time to 875
degC (200 degC/h; hold 45 h), followed by furnace shut-down. For phase
pure Mo₂As₃ product, the final repelletizing and annealing procedure was
performed at 1080 degC (200 degC; hold 80 h). For phase pure Mo₅As₄,
final reaction was at done at 975 degC (200 degC; hold 50 h). In the
various attempts to obtain phase-pure products, a batch resulted in
mixtures of molybdenum arsenide and oxide (Mo₂As₃, Mo₅As₄, and MoO₂)
crystalline phases, according to x-ray powder diffraction results. This
batch, which we call Mo_(x)As₃O₂ for the rest of this report, gave
evidence for superconductivity, serendipitously.

The phase purity and structural identification were made via powder
x-ray diffraction using PANalytical X’pert PRO MPD. Lattice constants of
all samples were determined at room temperature from LeBail refinements
using X’Pert HighScore Plus (2.2e version). dc magnetization was
measured as a function of temperature using a Quantum Design magnetic
property measurement system (MPMS). For the typical temperature sweep
experiment, the sample was zero-field cooled (zfc) to 1.8 K and data
were collected by warming from 2 K in an applied field. The sample was
then field cooled (fc) in the applied field, and the measurement was
repeated from 2 K. The temperature dependence of dc electrical
resistance and heat capacity were measured using a Quantum Design
physical property measurement system (PPMS). Electrical contacts were
placed on samples in standard four-probe geometry by using Pt wires and
Dupont silver paste. The local atomic arrangements of the samples were
studied using an aberration-corrected scanning tunneling electron
microscopy, STEM Nion UltraSTEM 100^(TM), which has a cold
field-emission electron source and that can correct third and
fifth-order aberrations [12]. The microscope was operated at 100 kV
acceleration voltage, using a 30 mrad semiconvergence angle. High-angle
annular dark-field (HAADF) Z-contrast images were collected from ∼86 to
200 mrad half-angle range.

## III Experimental Results and Discussions

Powder x-ray diffraction data show that Mo₂As₃ and Mo₅As₄ phases can be
made phase pure. Lattice parameters were determined from full-pattern
LeBail refinements using X’Pert HighScore; these values compare well
with those listed from literature in Fig. 1: for Mo₂As₃, a = 13.3684(1)
A, b = 3.2347(3) A, c = 9.642(1) A, and β = 124.593(1)deg; for Mo₅As₄, a
= 9.5957(1) A and c = 3.2273(1) A. For the Mo_(x)As₃O_(x) batch, the
powder diffraction data were well refined using three crystalline phases
of 70.0

Figure 2 shows the transmission electron microscopy (TEM) images of
atomic arrangements of Mo₂As₃ and Mo₉As₄ structures along different
crystallographic orientations. For Mo_(x)As_(y)O_(z), the sample was
composed by particles of 1-2 μm in size and grains of a few tenths of a
micron large; selective area diffraction showed the presence of both
Mo₂As₃ and Mo₅As₄ particles. Energy dispersive spectroscopy (EDX),
performed within the electron transmission microscope in scanning mode,
confirmed the existence of an oxygen containing phase embedded within a
particle of composition Mo₅As₄. Figure 3(a) shows a low resolution
Z-contrast STEM image of the Mo₅As₄ particle and the region chosen for
elemental EDX mapping. Figures 3(b)-3(d) show the EDX maps of this
region for O K, Mo K, and As K edges, respectively, and indicate the
presence of an oxide phase corresponding to the darker contrast region
(lower Z) in the STEM image. The EDX spectra for the Mo₅As₄ phase and
the oxygen-containing phase are shown in Figs. 3(e) and 3(f). No
nitrogen signal was observed in any of the particles analyzed by EDX.

Figure 4 shows the temperature dependence of resistivity ρ(T) and heat
capacity C(T). All samples are metallic, with resistivity decreasing
with lowering temperature [Fig. 4(a)]. Upon the application of 8 Tesla,
no shift in signal were noted for Mo₂As₃ or Mo₅As₄. For
Mo_(x)As_(y)O_(z), there is a further downturn in resistivity below ∼15
K [inset of Fig. 4(a)] and 8 Tesla seems to saturate the resistivity to
∼0.07 mOhm cnt at 2 K. C(T) data are featureless for all three samples
[Fig. 4(b)]. The plot of C/T versus T² is linear for Mo₂As₃ and Mo₅As₄
below ∼10 K [Fig. 4(b), inset], while it is linear only below ∼6 K for
Mo_(x)As_(y)O_(z). Both Mo₂As₃ and Mo_(x)As_(y)O_(z) yield a residual
Sommerfeld coefficient of γ₀ ≈ 7.2 mJ K⁻² mol⁻¹, while Mo₅As₄ gives
γ₀ ≈ 13.4 mJ K⁻² mol⁻¹. The theoretically calculated values (from the
first-principles calculations) for these specific heat coefficients,
respectively, are 3.35 and 9.58 mJ/K⁻² mol⁻¹, so that the experimental
values for Mo₂As₃ and Mo₅As₄ are enhanced from the DFT values by

Figure 1: (Color online) The crystal structures of Mo-based binaries of
Mo₂As₃, Mo₅As₄, and MoO₂. The space group and literature’s unit-cell
parameters are listed [4,6,7].

Figure 2: (Color online) Z-contrast STEM images showing the atomic
arrangements of structures of Mo₂As₃ and Mo₅As₄. Purple and yellow
circles schematically show the atomic positions of the Mo and As,
respectively.

factors of 2.15 and 1.40, respectively. While it is conceivable that
such an enhancement could originate from an impurity component, this
appears unlikely in view of the rather large residual resistivity ratios
and the lack of crystalline impurity phases. It is more likely that
these increases relative to the theoretical values reflect (at least to
a degree) electron-phonon coupling, which generally increases specific
heat coefficients relative to "bare" calculated values. The enhancement
in this case would suggest electron-phonon coupling constants λ of 1.15
and 0.4 for Mo₂As₃ and Mo₅As₄, respectively. While the latter value is
in the 0.32-0.43 range estimated for metallic (and superconducting) Mo
[13], the former value is far outside this range, and hints at possible
correlation effects in Mo₂As₃, though the nature of such correlations,
if present, remains mysterious.

Figure 5 shows the temperature dependence of magnetic susceptibility
χ(T). Mo₂As₃ shows diamagnetic behavior at ∼7 × 10⁻⁵ emu mol⁻¹ Oe⁻¹.
Mo_(x)As_(y)O_(z) also gives diamagnetic behavior with similar
temperature dependence, with the addition of a sharp downturn below 12
K. For calculating χ(T) for Mo_(x)As_(y)O_(z), the correct molar amounts
of the crystalline phases, as detected above, in diffraction, were

Figure 4: (Color online) For Mo₂As₃, Mo₃As₄, and Mo_(x)As_(y)O_(z),
temperature dependence of (a) resistivity ρ(T) and (b) heat capacity
C(T). Inset of (a) demonstrated the effect of 8 Tesla field on
Mo_(x)As_(y)O_(z). Inset of (b) is the C/T versus T² plot at low
temperature, with the linear fits.

Figure 5: (Color online) Temperature dependence of (a) zfc magnetic
susceptibility for Mo₂As₃, Mo₃As₄, and Mo_(x)As_(y)O_(z) at applied
field of 1 Tesla, (b) zfc and fc magnetization for Mo₂As_(y)O_(z) at the
smaller field of 0.05 Tesla. Inset of (a) gives the field dependence of
the materials up to 7 Tesla, at 2 K.

Figure 3: (Color online) For a Mo-oxide phase embedded within particle
of Mo_(x)As_(y)O_(z) batch. (a) Z-contrast image. (b) EDX O K map
acquired within the green box drawn in (a), showing an oxygen-containing
region within the grain. (c) and (d) Corresponding Mo K and As K edges
maps for the same region. (e) EDX spectrum collected away from the Mo-O
precipitate [upper rectangle in (b)], revealing a matrix composition of
Mo₅As₄. (f) EDX spectrum collected from the oxygen-containing region
[lower rectangle in (b)] with the arrow indicating the O K-edge position
in both spectra.

used. Mo₅As₄ shows Pauli paramagnetic behavior at ∼5 x 10⁻⁵ emu mol⁻¹
Oe⁻¹, having a small upturn in susceptibility below 10 K that could be
due to small amount of amorphous paramagnetic impurity. Figure 5(a)
inset gives the negative linear dependence of M(H) for Mo₂As₃, positive
M(H) dependence for Mo₅As₄ with a small curvature at lower fields. For
Mo_(x)As_(y)O_(z), magnetization, at lower applied field of 0.05 Tesla
is shown in Fig. 5(b). There is a clear divergence below ∼12 K to
negative magnetic susceptibility values, between the zfc and fc forms,
which is a sign of shielding and Meissner effects, respectively, in a
superconducting sample. Estimation of the superconducting volume
fraction based on magnetization measurement shown here gives ∼8

## IV Theoretical results–density-functional theory calculations

First-principles DFT calculations on Mo₂As₃, Mo₅As₄, and MoO₂ were done
within the generalized gradient approximation (GGA) [14] using the
augmented plane-wave (APW) method [15]. For each of the three compounds,
we used approximately 1000 k points in the full Brillouin zone, with
sphere radii (in Bohr = 0.529177 A) for the arsenides of 2.48-2.5 bohr
for Mo and 2.20-2.22 bohr for As, while in the oxide the Mo sphere
radius was 1.75 Bohr and the O was 1.58 Bohr. An $RK_{\rm max}$ value of
7.0, where R is the minimum sphere radius and $K_{\rm max}$ is the
maximum basis set wave vector, was used. No optimization of lattice or
internal coordinates was performed; the structural data of Fig. 1 was
used. Ionic positions (rounded to three decimal places) were as follows:
for Mo₂As₃, the two distinct Mo sites were the 4i sites
(0.248,0.371,0.264) and (0.351,0.135, 0.274), while the three distinct
As 4i sites were (0.127,0.048,0.384), (0.415,0.685,0.346), and
(0.104,0.628,0.324). For Mo₅As₄, the Mo 2a site was (0,0,0), the Mo 8h
site (0.300,0.375,0), and the As 8h site (0.051,0.286,0), while for MoO₂
the Mo 4e site was (0.228,0.994,0.013) and the two O 4e sites
(0.120,0.230,0.275) and (0.398, 0.685, 0.292).

In Figs. 6(a) and 6(b) we present the Mo₂As₃ and Mo₅As₄
densities-of-states (DOS) calculated from the converged charge density
results attained above. The plots also depict the total
densities-of-states within each of the muffin-tin spheres.
Brillouin-zone integrations for these plots were

Figure 6: (Color online) DOS calculation for (a) Mo₂As₃, (b) Mo₅As₄, and
(c) MoO₂. For MoO₂ we have plotted both the Mo character and the Mo 4d
character, which are virtually identical. Note that for Mo₅As₄ there is
one formula unit per unit cell, and for Mo₂As₃ and MoO₂ there are four.
For Mo₅As₄, Mo site 1 [the 2a site at (0,0,0)] is of single multiplicity
and site 2 is of 4 multiplicity. (d) Calculated band structure of MoO₂
in the simple monoclinic Brillouin zone (note that by convention we have
taken the z axis parallel to the original b axis as the other two axes
are very nearly the same length.)

carried out using the tetrahedron method. Only nonmagnetic calculations
were performed for these compounds. We observe immediately the metallic
nature of both compounds, as observed in the experimental resistivities.
In addition, in both compounds we note the presence of a gaplike feature
around E_(F), with a substantial depression in the DOS. For Mo₂As₃ this
feature extends some 2 eV above E_(F) and 1.5 eV below E_(F), while in
Mo₅As₄ the corresponding range is −3 to +1 eV. The widths of the gaplike
feature, as well as its depth, are roughly equal in the two compounds
(note that the unit cells for these compounds are nearly the same size),
with the gap somewhat shifted down in energy, relative to E_(F), in
Mo₅As₄. The states around E_(F) for both compounds are primarily of Mo
character, and the shape of the Mo-projected DOS is similar to the total
DOS, suggesting the dominance of Mo in determining the electronic
structure of this material. With the exception of the gap feature shift,
the electronic structure of the two systems is quite similar. It remains
an open question why the experimental T-linear specific heat coefficient
enhancement (relative to the theoretically calculated value) is larger
for Mo₂As₃.

The DOS is more complicated for MoO₂ [Fig. 6(c)]. MoO₂ is metallic,
similar to Mo₂As₃ and Mo₅As₄ and also exhibits a gaplike feature in the
vicinity of the Fermi level. Unlike in the arsenide compound, however,
the Fermi level sits directly at one edge of the gaplike feature, with
the DOS rising rapidly just below E_(F). Due to this highly variable
DOS, we have checked for evidence of a hole-doping induced magnetic
instability. We note that evidence of magnetism, arising apparently from
the presence of oxygen or Mo vacancies, was found experimentally in Ref.
[16] and theoretically in Ref. [17]. There is some controversy in the
theoretical results, however, as in Ref. [18] no evidence was found for
vacancy-related magnetism, but rather for surface-effect magnetism (note
that Ref. [16] was a thin-film experiment). We find a Fermi level DOS of
2.68/unit cell eV, which compares fairly well to the previously
calculated value [19] of 2.32/u.c. eV. In general the calculated DOS
compares reasonably well to that of this earlier reference.

We also depict the calculated nonmagnetic band structure of MoO₂ in Fig.
6(d). We have chosen the same coordinate system and k-point path as Ref.
[19] to facilitate comparison with that work. One observes hole pockets
around Y and Z as well as an electron surface around G and including B.
Three distinct bands cross E_(F), and we also observe on the farthest
left G-Y panel that these electron and hole pockets are very nearly
degenerate, with a rather narrow space between. This will appear in the
Fermi surface plots (presented in Fig. 7) and will be seen also to make
a contribution to the bare susceptibility as a nesting-type feature. As
with the DOS, these results compare fairly well to the earlier results,
with some significant differences (such as the presence of an electron
pocket around B, not visible in Fig. 6 of Ref. [19].

By studying doping using the virtual crystal approximation, as well as
calculations with one of the four equivalent Mo sites substituted with
Nb or Zr, we have searched for doping-induced ferromagnetic ground
states and find no such state. Indeed, from the DOS plot in Fig. 6(c),
one finds that the Stoner criterion for magnetism is not near to being
satisfied at any likely hole doping level, as the Mo DOS never exceeds 1
per eV per Mo (both spins), and with the Stoner I of 0.022 Ryd from Ref.
[20] one finds a Stoner parameter of less than 0.3. Our results are
consistent with the previous theoretical results as regards the lack of
magnetism in the pure MoO₂ compound. As many oxides exhibit
antiferromagnetism, we have also investigated a nearest-neighbor
antiferromagnetic configuration and find that the calculation converges
to a nonmagnetic state.

These findings have implications for the superconductivity observed in
this material. In some theories superconductivity can arise from a
nearly magnetic itinerant ground state. However, most typically this is
in competition with an antiferromagnetic state, as observed in the iron
pnictides and cuprates, while Ref. [16] found experimental evidence for
room-temperature ferromagnetism. While ferromagnetic fluctuations can
induce superconductivity or superfluidity, as in ³He [21], this is
generally associated with a triplet state which has almost universally a
low T_(c), certainly not ∼12 K. Hence the superconductivity in this
material does not appear to derive from the experimentally observed
ferromagnetism. There is one other possibility, however,
superconductivity deriving from antiferromagnetic _fluctuations_, as
opposed to ordering. For this possibility the Fermi surface structure is
of interest. Figure 8 depicts the Fermi surface of MoO₂ calculated from
the band structure results.

The plots display a complex Fermi surface structure; as mentioned
previously, three bands (bands 51, 52, and 53) cross the Fermi energy,
depicted, respectively, in the upper left, upper right, and lower left
of Fig. 8. Band 51 displays hole pockets around Y and Z, with the former
somewhat more anisotropic than the latter. Band 52 contains hole pockets
in these same locations, with somewhat different shapes, with an
additional pocket located at a point between A and B. Band 53 contains a
large electron "tube," centered at Γ and continuing on to the B point.
The inset plot above the plot of band 53 depicts all three bands from a
top view. Of note are the parallel vertical surfaces in this plot, which
could lead to nesting. These results differ somewhat from the Fermi

Figure 7: (Color online) The calculated Fermi surface of nonmagnetic
MoO₂. Top left: Band 51 surface (holelike); top right: band 52 surface
(holelike); bottom left, band 53 surface (electronlike); bottom right,
combined plot. Middle left: A top view of the combined surface; note the
parallel band 52 surfaces.

surface plots presented in Ref. [19] as those results pertain to a
hypothetical rutile-type tetragonal structure while we have used the
actual, experimentally observed monoclinic structure here.

One recalls the situation in the iron pnictides, wherein
superconductivity appears to be a result of SDW fluctuations remaining
after the doping-induced destruction of the magnetic state. In the
present situation the SDW magnetic fluctuations could potentially be
sufficiently strong to support superconductivity, but not an itinerant
magnetic state, which unlike superconductivity requires minimum
interaction (the Stoner criterion) strength, in order to exist.

To examine these possibilities we have computed the real part of the
bare Lindhard spin susceptibility χ₀(q)[22, 23], which would control the
strength of the magnetic-fluctuation-related pairing interaction, if
present in MoO₂. Recall that this quantity is generally enhanced by
"nesting" Fermi surface features, although not a direct measurement of
the nesting. It is defined as follows:

$$Xo(\bm{q})=\sum_{\bm{k},i,j}\frac{f[E(\bm{k}+\bm{q},i)]-f[E(\bm{k},j)]}{E(\bm{ k},j)-E(\bm{k}+\bm{q},i)+i\delta}.$$

In this expression f is the Fermi function exp[(E − μ)/kT] + 1, E(k, i)
is the energy of band number i at wave vector k, and the sum is taken
over all wave vectors and combinations of bands, including when i = j.
Here δ is a positive infinitesimal.

In general, within canonical spin-density wave theory, an instability
occurs when the RPA susceptibility, defined as

$$X(\bm{q})=\frac{Xo(\bm{q})}{1-V(\bm{q})Xo(\bm{q})}$$

diverges. Here V(q) is the interaction vertex, whose momentum dependence
is typically weaker than that of the bare susceptibility. Hence
spin-density wave _fluctuations_, as could be responsible for
superconductivity in MoO_(2 − x), are generally well described by the
bare susceptibility Xo(q).

We depict this quantity, plotted in the basal (i.e., q_(z) = 0) plane,
in Fig. 8. Values generally diminish away from the basal plane. Of note,
there is substantial structure in this quantity, with a maximum observed
near (0.5,0.1,0) (here the c axis is taken as the b axis from the
structural determination). If the observed superconductivity in MoO₂ is
due to a magnetic SDW-related mechanism, it might be possible to observe
a superconducting order parameter sign change over the wave vectors
associated with Fermi surface nesting. For bulk superconductivity, MoO₂
compositions away from stoichiometry (deficient or doped) will need to
be synthesized and characterized.

## V Conclusions

Experimental data and electronic structures of pure MoO₂, as well as
Mo₂As₃ and Mo₅As₄, suggest a possibility that the superconductivity
likely due to the MoO_(2 − δ) could originate in nesting-type
fluctuations, although we find no evidence for magnetism in the MoO₂
sample. More research work will be required to understand and uncover
the bulk superconductivity in these samples.

###### Acknowledgements.

This work was supported by the Oak Ridge National Laboratory LDRD
funding program. A.S. also acknowledges support by the Department of
Energy, Office of Basic Energy Sciences, Materials Sciences and
Engineering Division. Part of this research was conducted at the Center
for Nanophase Materials Sciences User Facility (JCI), which is sponsored
at ORNL by the Scientific User Facility Division, office of Basic Energy
Sciences, US Department of Energy.

## References

* [1] A. S. Sefat and D. J. Singh, Mater. Res. Bull. **36**, 614
(2011). * [2] B. Saparov, J. E. Mitchell, and A. S. Sefat, Supercond.
Sci. Technol. **25**, 084016 (2012). * [3] D. Hirai, T. Takayama, D.
Hashizume, and H. Takagi, Phys. Rev. B **85**, 140509 (2012). * [4] L.
H. Dietrich and W. Jeitschko, J. Solid State Chem. **63**, 377 (1986). *
[5] P. Jensen, A. Kjekshus, T. Skansen _et al._ Acta Chem. Scand.
**20**, 403 (1966). * [6] P. Jensen and A. Kjekshus, Acta Chem. Scand.
**20**, 1309 (1966). * [7] A. A. Bolzan, B. J. Kennedy, and C. J.
Howard, Aust. J. Chem. **48**, 1473 (1995). * [8] F. A. Grant, Rev. Mod.
Phys. **31**, 646 (1959). * [9] O. Fischer, Appl. Phys. **16**, 11
(1978). * [10] L. M. S. Alves, V. I. Damasceno, C. A. M. dos Santos, A.
D. Bortolozo, P. A. Suzuki, H. J. Izario Filho, A. J. S. Machado, and Z.
Fisk, Phys. Rev. B **81**, 174532 (2010). * [11] L. M. S. Alves, C. A.
M. dos Santos, S. S. Benaion, A. J. S. Machado, B. S. de Lima, J. J.
Neumeier, M. D. R. Marques, J. Albino Aguiar, R. J. O. Mossanek, and M.
Abbate, J. Appl. Phys. **112**, 073923 (2012).

Figure 8: (Color online) The real part of the Lindhard spin
susceptibility calculated in the basal plane for MoO₂. The Γ point is at
each of the four corners.

* [12] O. L. Krivanek, G. J. Corbin, N. Dellby, B. F. Elston, R. J.
Keyse, M. F. Murfitt, C. S. Own, Z. S. Szilagyi, and J. W. Woodruff,
Ultramicroscopy **108**, 179 (2008). * [13] P. B. Allen, Phys. Rev. B
**36**, 2920 (1987). * [14] J. P. Perdew, K. Burke, and M. Ernzerhof,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **77**, 3865 (1996). * [15] P. Blaha, K. Schwarz, G.
Madsen, D. Kvasnicka, and J. Luitz, _WIEN2k, An Augmented Plane Wave +
Local Orbitals Program for Calculating Crystal Properties_ (K. Schwarz,
Techn. Univ. Wien, Austria) (2001). * [16] P. Thakur, J. C. Cezar, N. B.
Brookes, R. J. Choudhary, R. Prakash, D. M. Phase, K. H. Chae, and R.
Kumar, Appl. Phys. Lett. **94**, 062501 (2009). * [17] F. Wang, Z. Pang,
L. Lin, S. Fang, Y. Dai, and S. Han, Phys. Rev. B **81**, 134407
(2010). * [18] J. Nisar, X. Peng, and R. Ahuja, Phys. Rev. B **81**,
012402 (2010). * [19] V. Eyert, R. Horny, K. Hock, and S. Horn, J.
Phys.:Condens. Matt. **12**, 4923 (2000). * [20] J. F. Janak, Phys. Rev.
B **16**, 255 (1977). * [21] A. J. Leggett, Rev. Mod. Phys. **47**, 331
(1975). * [22] D. Parker and I. I. Mazin, Phys. Rev. B **83**,
180403(R), (2011). * [23] I. I. Mazin, D. J. Singh, M. D. Johannes, and
M. H. Du, Phys. Rev. Lett. **101**, 057003 (2008).
