Effect of Pr scattering on the penetration depth λ_(ab) in
Bi₂Sr₂Ca_(1 − x)Pr_(x)Cu₂O_(8 + δ) single crystals

X.-G. Li

Department of Physics, National Tsing Hua University, Hsinchu 300,
Taiwan

and Structure Research Laboratory, University of Science and Technology
of China, Anhui 230026, China

X. F. Sun

Structure Research Laboratory, University of Science and Technology of
China, Anhui 230026, China

Y. H. Toh

Department of Physics, National Tsing Hua University, Hsinchu 300,
Taiwan

22 October 1997

###### Abstract

Four superconducting single crystals near the optimum-doped region
(x = 0, 0.11, 0.17, and 0.28) for the Bi₂Sr₂Ca_(1 − x)Pr_(x)Cu₂O_(8 + δ)
system were chosen for detailed structural and magnetic measurements, in
order to study the effect of Pr scattering on the temperature dependence
of the ab-plane penetration depth λ_(ab) . The penetration depth for
these incommensurate modulated single crystals follows a T² behavior at
low temperature, and then crossover to a linear T dependence at the
characteristic temperature T^(*). Variation of linear T region and T^(*)
with increasing Pr content indicates that Pr acts as a strong scattering
center that modifies the local density of states of the system. The
present result is consistent with the prediction for disorder-affected
d-wave superconductors. [S0163-1829(98)01326-5]

## 1 Introduction

It is extremely important to understand the symmetry of high-T_(c)
superconductors. Studies on the electromagnetic penetration depth λ at a
temperature well below T_(c) are beginning to yield a consistent picture
on the pairing state of high-T_(c) systems.[1-11] For example, recent
penetration depth measurements on high-quality single crystals of
YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − y) and Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O_(8 + δ) gave strong support to d-wave
symmetry.[2] In YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − y) , the temperature dependence of the
penetration depth was found to be linear in a wide temperature range,[1,
2] while some other experiments often show a T² dependence[3-9] instead
of the linear T characteristic expected for a clean d-wave
superconductor. The discrepancy can be interpreted qualitatively as due
to impurity or disorder scattering for a dirty d-wave superconductor.
Particularly, Hirschfeld and Goldenfeld[10] predicted that there exists
a crossover temperature T^(*) at which the dependence changes from the T
to T² law due to impurity defect and disorder scattering. Recently, the
temperature dependence of the penetration depth on T_(c) in
Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O_(8 + δ) was reported.[11] Samples with a maximum T_(c) show
a linear behavior, while those with significantly reduced T_(c) follow a
quadratic law. Since only the oxygen content δ is changed, it is not
clear why the penetration depth follows a linear law in some samples,
but not in all samples.

In order to study the effect of disorder substitution on the temperature
dependence of the penetration depth, the
Bi₂Sr₂Ca_(1 − x)Pr_(x)Cu₂O_(8 + δ) system is a good candidate due to the
similar ionic radius of Pr³⁺ of 1.126 A compared with Ca²⁺ of 1.12 A.
There have been many previous studies on the Pr-substituted
systems.[12-14] However, previous studies are all on polycrystalline
samples, which present very strong impurity scattering. In this paper,
impurity-free clean single-crystal penetration depth data on the
Pr-substituted Bi₂Sr₂Ca_(1 − x)_R_(x)Cu₂O_(8 + δ) system are reported.

## 2 Experiments

Single crystals of the Bi₂Sr₂Ca_(1 − x)Pr_(x)Cu₂O_(8 + δ) system were
grown using the standard self-flux method. High-purity Bi₂O₃, SrCO₃,
CaCO₃, Pr₆O₁₁, and CuO powders with the off-stoichiometric ratio were
mixed, ground, and calcined in air for 1 day. The reacted powders with
excess Bi₂O₃ included as a flux were then used for crystal growth. The
details for crystal growth will be described elsewhere.[15] The actual
composition of the as-grown single crystals was determined from an
energy dispersive x-ray (EDX) analysis using a Leica Steroscan 440
scanning electron microscopy. The average size of the single crystals
was 4 mm×2 mm×0.04 mm. All single crystals were post-annealed at 360
^(∘)C in air for 3 days to ensure sample homogeneity.

Single-crystal x-ray data were obtained with a Rigaku Rofalfzek 18-kW
rotating anode x-ray diffractometer using graphite monochromatized Cu Kα
radiation with a scanning rate of 0.5^(∘)-1^(∘) in 2 θ per minute. For
the a-axis and b-axis x-ray diffraction measured in the transmission
fashion, a fiber sample attachment with a divergence slit of 1/6^(∘) was
used. All x-ray diffraction data were collected through careful
alignment of the a, b, and c axes of the crystals. The anisotropic
magnetic susceptibility χ_(ab)(T) and magnetization M_(ab)(H)
measurements were carried out with a μ-metal-shielded Quantum Design
MPMS₂ superconducting quantum interference device (SQUID) magnetometer
down to 5 K in an applied magnetic field from 1 G to 10 kG.

## 3 Results and Discussion

Four superconducting single crystals near the optimum-doped region
(x = 0, 0.11, 0.17, and 0.28) for the Bi₂Sr₂Ca_(1 − x)Pr_(x)Cu₂O_(8 + δ)
system were chosen for detailed studies. Figure 1 shows a typical c-axis
x-ray diffraction pattern for the single-crystal
Bi₂Sr₂Ca_(0.72)Pr_(0.28)Cu₂O_(8 + δ) No impurity lines were observed,
and the Bi-2212-type ( 00l) diffraction lines give an orthorhombic c
parameter of 30.701 A. The b-axis diffraction pattern in Fig. 2 gives a
b parameter of 5.439 A and an incommensurate modulation along the b axis
with period s = 4.56. No modulation was observed along the orthorhombic
a axis (a = 5.435 A).

The orthorhombic unit-cell volume increases from 902.3 A [3] for x = 0
to 907.6 A [3] for x = 0.28 and 912.1-922.5 A [3] for x = 1, [16] due to
extra incorporated oxygen and a slightly larger ionic radius of Pr³⁺ of
1.126 A compared with Ca²⁺ of 1.12 A. The incommensurate modulation
period along b axis decreases from s = 4.76 for x = 0 to 4.56 for x =
0.28 and 4.16 for x = 1, and the c parameter decreases monotonically
from 30.849 A for x = 0 to 30.701 A for x = 0.28 and 30.267-30.363 A for
x = 1. [16] The decreasing c parameter is probably due to one or more of
the following reasons: (i) With increasing Pr content, the incorporated
oxygen with positive charge in the Bi₂O₃ double layers increases and,
consequently, causes the slab sequence SrO-BiO-BiO-SrO to shrink. (ii)
With Pr doping, an additional band crosses the Fermi level, grabbing
holes from the Cu-O d_(o^(′))-p band. The attractive interaction should
result in the decrease of the separation between two CuO₂ layers. (iii)
With predominant Pr³⁺ character, there may still exist some Pr⁺⁴
character [16] with a smaller ionic size compared with Ca²⁺.

The ab-plane magnetic susceptibility χ_(ab)(T) with a 5-G low field
parallel to the c axis of Bi₂Sr₂Ca_(1 − x)Pr_(x)Cu₂O_(8 + δ) single
crystals as shown in Fig. 3 gives a superconducting transition
temperature T_(c) of 88 K for x = 0.11 and 71 K for x = 0.28. Since a
T_(c) of 86 K was observed for x = 0 and 84 K for x = 0.17, the
optimum-doped composition is near x = 0.1. Single crystals with x = 0.17
and 0.28 are in the underdoped region and x = 0 is already in the
overdoped region. A metal-insulator transition occurred around x = 0.6,
and Bi₂Sr₂PrCu₂O_(8 + δ) (x = 1) is an insulator without long-range Pr
ordering down to 0.5 K [16]. The diamagnetic response signal decreases
systematically with increasing Pr concentration due to the damaging
effect on the coherence of the two CuO₂ layers by the randomly
distributed Pr ions between these two layers. Smaller field-cooled (FC)
signal as compared with the zero-field-cooled (ZFC) signal indicated the
flux trapping by single-crystal defects during the field-cooled process.

The ab-plane magnetization curves M_(ab)(H, T) for four single crystals
were measured with T<T_(c) . Figure 4 shows M_(ab)(H, 5 K) for four
samples at 5 K. The ab-plane lower critical field H_(c1)^(ab) , defined
as the field at which flux first penetrates, can be estimated from the
M(H) curves as a deviation from the linear M-H behavior corresponding to
the Meissner state. For H<H_(c1) , the magnetization is reversible and
no hysteresis loop was observed. For H>H_(c1) , the fact that the
observed hysteresis loops for these single crystals are near symmetrical
angles the effect of surface barriers on the determination of H_(c1)
[17, 18]. The ab-plane H_(c1)^(ab) (5 K) thus estimated are 255 G for x
= 0, 170 G for x = 0.11, 130 G for x = 0.17, and 95 G for x = 0.28. For
x = 0.11, increasing temperature gives a lower H_(c1)^(ab) of 74 G at 10
K, 42 G at 15 K, 22 G at 20 K, and 12 G at 30 K (Fig. 5). Due to the low
H_(c1)^(ab) values, a zero-field de-Gaussing procedure is thoroughly
applied before every measurement to ensure the data quality.

Figure 2: X-ray diffraction pattern of orthorhombic (0k0) lines for a
Bi₂Sr₂Ca_(0.72)Pr_(0.28)Cu₂O_(8 + δ) single crystal. Incommensurate
modulation lines are denoted by ±2Δ.

Figure 3: Molar magnetic susceptibility χ_(ab)(T) with low applied
magnetic field parallel to the c axis of superconducting
Bi₂Sr₂Ca_(1 − x)Pr_(x)Cu₂O_(8 + δ) single crystals (x = 0.11,0.28) in
field-cooled (FC) and zero-field-cooled (ZFC) modes.

The _ab_-plane lower critical field H_(c1)^(ab) allow one to estimate
the _ab_-plane penetration depth λ_(ab) using he equation
H_(c1) = Φ₀ln_a_/4_p_x², where Φ₀ is the fluxoid and κ is the
Ginzburg-Landau parameter. Using κ of 130 from the parent compound
Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O_(8 + δ) (Ref. [11]) for all compounds, the estimated λ_(ab)
(5 K) is 1800 A for x = 0, 2200 A for x = 0.11, 2500 A for x = 0.17, and
2900 A for x = 0.28. The extrapolated λ_(ab) (0 K) of 1650 A for the
parent compound Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O_(8 + δ) is very close to the value reported
using other measurement techniques.[3]

The temperature dependences of the penetration depth λ_(ab)(T) for four
single crystals with a magnetic field perpendicular to the CuO₂ layers
are shown collectively in Fig. 6. At lower temperature
[T  <  (0.2 − 0.3) T_(c)], all samples show a T² behavior. However, a
crossover from a T² to T dependence was observed at the crossover
temperature T^(*)  ∼ (0.2 − 0.3) T_(c). When the temperature is
approaching T_(c), λ_(ab) diverges as expected. The linear T region is
extremely long from T^(*) of 16.5 to 55 K for the undoped parent
compound Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O_(8 + δ), and this linear region shrinks sharply
with Pr doping as shown in Fig. 6.

For the clean _d_-wave superconductors with line nodes on the Fermi
surface, theory predicts a linear T dependence penetration depth
λ ∝  T^(p) (p = 1) at all temperatures.[10] However, in the present
study using impurity-free clean single crystals, the presence of
structural modulation and defects for the Bi-2212-type phase and the Pr
random disordering effect in the Ca site, the defect and disorder
scattering will force the clean-limit picture with linear T dependence
to be observed only at higher temperature range, and a crossover to a
scattering dominated T² dependence (p = 2) is expected at lower
temperature.[10] Such a behavior was observed in the present studies. As
shown in Fig. 7, regardless of the T_(c) variation from the overdoped to
underdoped region, T^(*) monotonically increases from 16.5 K for x = 0
to 18.9 K for x = 0.11, 21.6 K for x = 0.17, and 24.0 K for x = 0.28.
The T^(*) values of (0.19−0.33)T_(c) are consistent with the theoretical
predicted range of (0.12−0.27) T_(c).[10] The reduction of linear T
region and the variation of T^(*) with increasing Pr content indicates
that Pr acts as a strong scattering center in the Pr-doped
Bi₂Sr₂Ca_(1 − x)Pr_(x)Cu₂O_(8 + δ) system, which modifies the local
density of states in the system and is consistent with the prediction
for disorder-affected _d_-wave superconductors.

Figure 5: Magnetization curves M_(ab)(H) for a
Bi₂Sr₂Ca_(1 − x)Pr_(x)Cu₂O_(8 + δ) single crystal at 10, 15, 20, and 30
K.

Figure 6: Temperature dependence of the penetration depth λ_(ab) for
Bi₂Sr₂Ca_(1 − x)Pr_(x)Cu₂O_(8 + δ) single crystals
(x = 0,0.11,0.17,0.28). The crossover temperature from a T² behavior to
T dependence is denoted by T^(*).

Figure 7: Variation of the superconducting transition temperature T_(c)
and crossover temperature T^(*) for the
Bi₂Sr₂Ca_(1 − x)Pr_(x)Cu₂O_(8 + δ) system.

## IV Conclusions

In conclusion, using impurity-free clean single crystals, the Pr
disorder in the Bi₂Sr₂Ca_(1 − x)Pr_(x)Cr₂O_(8 + δ) system acts as the
scattering center and increases the crossover temperature _T_* from a
quadratic to linear temperature dependence of the penetration depth
λ_(ab) , which is consistent with the theoretically predicted behavior
in defect and disorder-affected _d_-wave superconductors.

###### Acknowledgements.

This work was supported by the Natural Science Foundation and the
National Science Council under Contract Nos. NSC87-2112-M007-007 and
NSC87-2112-M007-025.

## References

* [1] G. Y. Lee, K. M. Paget, T. R. Lemberger, S. R. Foltyn, and X. D.
Wu, Phys. Rev. B **50**, 3337 (1994). * [2] J. Mao. D. H. Wu, J. L.
Peng, R. L. Greene, and S. M. Anlage, Phys. Rev. B **51**, 3315
(1995). * [3] D. A. Bonn and W. N. Hardy, in _Physical Properties of
High Temperature Superconductivity V_, edited by D. M. Ginsberg (World
Scientific, Singapore, 1996), p. 7. * [4] Z. X. Ma, R. C. Taber, L. W.
Lombardo, A. Kapitulnik, M. R. Beasley, P. Merchant, C. B. Eom, S. Y.
Hou, and J. M. Phillips, Phys. Rev. Lett. **71**, 781 (1993). * [5] F.
Arberg and J. P. Carbotte, Phys. Rev. B **50**, 3250 (1994). * [6] J. P.
Carbotte and C. Jiang, Phys. Rev. B **48**, 4231 (1993). * [7] M. I.
Salkola, A. V. Balatsky, and D. J. Scalapino, Phys. Rev. Lett. **77**,
1841 (1996). * [8] D. Achkir, M. Poirier, D. A. Bonn, R. Liang, and W.
N. Hardy, Phys. Rev. B **48**, 13 184 (1993). * [9] A. Maeda, T.
Shibauchi, N. Kondo, K. Uchinokura, and M. Kobayashi, Phys. Rev. B
**46**, 14 234 (1992). * [10] P. J. Hirschfeld and N. Goldenfeld, Phys.
Rev. B **48**, 4219 (1993). * [11] O. Waldmann, F. Steinmeyer, P.
Muller, J. J. Neumeier, F. X. Regi, H. Savary, and J. Schneck, Phys.
Rev. B **53**, 11 825 (1996). * [12] Y. Gao, P. Pernambuco-Wise, J. E.
Crow, J. O’Reilly, N. Spencer, H. Chen, and R. E. Salomon, Phys. Rev. B
**45**, 7436 (1992). * [13] V. P. S. Awana, S. K. Agarwal, A. V.
Narlikar, and M. P. Das, Phys. Rev. B **48**, 1211 (1993). * [14] V. P.
S. Awana, L. Menon, and S. K. Malik, Phys. Rev. B **51**, 9379 (1995);
**53**, 2245 (1996). * [15] X.-G. Li (unpublished). * [16] H. C. Ku, T.
I. Hsu, Y. Y. Hsu, T. J. Lee, K. W. Yeh, Y. Huang, J. Y. Lin, S. J.
Chen, H. D. Yang, Y. Y. Chen, J. C. Ho, and X.-G Li, Chin. J. Phys.
**35**, 903 (1997). * [17] L. Burlachkov, Phys. Rev. B **47**, 8056
(1993). * [18] L. Fabrega, J. Fontcuberta, B. Martinez, and S. Pinol,
Phys. Rev. B **50**, 3256 (1994).
