# Superconducting properties of well-shaped MgB₂ single crystals

Kijoon H. P. Kim,1 Jae-Hyuk Choi, C. U. Jung, P. Chowdhury, Hyun-Sook
Lee, Min-Seok Park, Heon-Jung Kim, J. Y. Kim, Zhonglian Du, Eun-Mi Choi,
Mun-Seog Kim, W. N. Kang, and Sung-Ik Lee

National Creative Research Initiative Center for Superconductivity and
Department of Physics,

Pohang University of Science and Technology, Pohang 790-784, Republic of
Korea

Gun Yong Sung

Telecommunications Basic Research Laboratory, Electronics and
Telecommunications Research Institute,

Taejon 305-350, Republic of Korea

Jeong Yong Lee

Department of Material Science and Engineering, Korea Advanced Institute
of Science and Technology,

Taejon 305-701, Republic of Korea

Footnote 1: Electronic address: Department of Materials Science and
Engineering, Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology,

Taejon 305-701, Republic of Korea

Footnote 2: Electronic address: Department of Materials Science and
Engineering, Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology,

Taejon 305-701, Republic of Korea

Footnote 3: Electronic address: Department of Materials Science and
Engineering, Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology,

Taejon 305-701, Republic of Korea

Footnote 4: Electronic address: Department of Materials Science and
Engineering, Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology,

Taejon 305-701, Republic of Korea

Footnote 5: Electronic address: Department of Materials Science and
Engineering, Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology,

Taejon 305-701, Republic of Korea

Footnote 6: Electronic address: Department of Materials Science and
Engineering, Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology,

Taejon 305-701, Republic of Korea

Footnote 7: Electronic address: Department of Materials Science and
Engineering, Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology,

Taejon 305-701, Republic of Korea

Footnote 8: Electronic address: Department of Materials Science and
Engineering, Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology,

Taejon 305-701, Republic of Korea

Footnote 9: Electronic address: Department of Materials Science and
Engineering, Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology,

Taejon 305-701, Republic of Korea

Footnote 10: Electronic address: Department of Materials Science and
Engineering, Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology,

Taejon 305-701, Republic of Korea

Footnote 11: Electronic address: Department of Materials Science and
Engineering, Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology,

Taejon 305-701, Republic of Korea

Footnote 12: Electronic address: Department of Materials Science and
Engineering, Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology,

Taejon 305-701, Republic of Korea

Footnote 13: Electronic address: Department of Materials Science and
Engineering, Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology,

Taejon 305-701, Republic of Korea

Footnote 14: Electronic address: Department of Materials Science and
Engineering, Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology,

Taejon 305-701, Republic of Korea

Footnote 15: Electronic address: Department of Materials Science and
Engineering, Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology,

Taejon 305-701, Republic of Korea

Footnote 16: Electronic address: Department of Materials Science and
Engineering, Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology,

Taejon 305-701, Republic of Korea

Footnote 17: Electronic address: Department of Materials Science and
Engineering, Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology,

Taejon 305-701, Republic of Korea

Footnote 18: Electronic address: Department of Materials Science and
Engineering, Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology,

Taejon 305-701, Republic of Korea

Footnote 19: Electronic address: Department of Materials Science and
Engineering, Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology,

Taejon 305-701, Republic of Korea

Footnote 20: Electronic address: Department of Materials Science and
Engineering, Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology,

Taejon 305-701, Republic of Korea

Footnote 21: Electronic address: Department of Materials Science and
Engineering, Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology,

Taejon 305-701, Republic of Korea

Footnote 22: Electronic address: Department of Materials Science and
Engineering, Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology,

Taejon 305-701, Republic of Korea

Footnote 23: Electronic address: Department of Materials Science and
Engineering, Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology,

Taejon 305-701, Republic of Korea

Footnote 24: Electronic address: Department of Materials Science and
Engineering, Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology,

Taejon 305-701, Republic of Korea

Footnote 25: Electronic address: Department of Materials Science and
Engineering, Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology,

Taejon 305-701, Republic of Korea

Footnote 26: Electronic address: Department of Materials Science and
Engineering, Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology, Figure
1(a) shows a typical SEM image for a MgB₂ single crystal. Most of the
crystals were found to have hexagonal-plate forms with typical edge
angles of 120 degrees and with very flat surfaces, which were very shiny
when observed using a polarizing optical microscope. The crystals were
about 20−120 μm in diagonal length and 2−10 μm in thickness. A recent
study [6] showed that [001] twist grain boundaries, formed by rotations
along the c axis (typically by about 4 degrees), were the major grain
boundaries in polycrystalline MgB₂ and could be attributed to the weaker
Mg-B bonding.6 HRTEM and SEM studies showed no grain boundaries in our
crystals. The smooth surfaces and the sharp edges confirm that our small
crystals had the least probability of having mosaic aggregates of
nanocrystals either along the _ab_ plane or along the c axis; thus, we
had a better chance to study their intrinsic properties with the help of
a microfabrication technique.

To measure the temperature and the field dependencies of the in-plane
resistivity of the crystal, we fabricated four electrical metal leads
(bright area) on the top surface of the crystal, as shown in Fig. 1(b).
For lithography, selected MgB₂ single crystals were fixed on oxidized Si
substrate by holding their hexagonal edges using a negative photoresist
(OMR-83, TOK Co. Ltd.) as glue. They were then soft baked. After the
surfaces of the samples were cleaned by using Ar-ion milling with a beam
voltage of 350 V and a beam current of 0.2 mA/cm², four electrical pads
were patterned using a positive photoresist (AZ 7210, Clariant
Industries Ltd.). Three metal layers, a 100-nm thick Ti film, a 1000-nm
thick Ag film, and a 100-nm-thick Au film, were deposited in sequence
after another ion milling treatment. The contact resistances were less
than 2Ω, and the approximate distance between the voltage pads was about
7 μm. The bias current for the resistance measurement was 0.1−0.2 mA,
which, judging from the current-voltage characteristics, was in the
ohmic range.

Figure 1: (a) SEM image of a hexagonal, thin plate with a size of about
50 μm, shows smooth surfaces and sharp edges. The white spots at the
edge were stuck weakly on the crystal surface and were about 100 nm in
diameter. (b) Optical microscope image of the four-probe contact leads
which were made on a single crystal by using a photolithography
technique. (c) Two hundred single crystals on a Si substrate with their
c axes aligned perpendicular to the substrate surface within +-2.5°.

Figure 2: (a) HRTEM image of a MgB₂ single crystal and (b) selected area
electron diffraction pattern for a beam direction of [001] in the
hexagonal structure.

For the bulk properties of the superconductivity, we measured the
low-field magnetization curve M(T) and the magnetic hysteresis curve
M(H). Since the volume of one crystal was rather small, we fixed about
two hundred single crystals on a Si substrate with their c axes aligned
perpendicular to the substrate surface within ± 2.5^(∘) as shown in Fig.
1(c). To avoid spurious signals from the matrix, we used an optical
microscope and a sample-handling device equipped with a precision xyz
stage and a microtip to collect large single crystals one by one.

To confirm the structure of the MgB₂ phase, we took a plane-view HRTEM
image, as shown in Fig. 2. From this high-resolution image, the a-axis
lattice parameter was found to be 3.09± 0.06 A, which was consistent
with the value determined from x-ray powder diffractometry performed on
polycrystalline samples.[1] Figure 2(b) shows the electron diffraction
pattern in a selected area for a beam direction of [001]. This result
clearly indicates that this crystal has the hexagonal structure of MgB₂.

Figure 3(a) shows the in-plane resistance as a function of temperature.
A superconducting transition appears near 38 K with a transition width
of 0.3 K based on the 10 to 90

The solid line in Fig. 3 is a fitting curve obtained using the
Bloch-Gruneisen formula[27] in the normal state: R(T) =R₀ +
$R_{\rm ph}(T)$ where R₀ is the temperature-independent residual part
and $R_{\rm ph}(T)$ the phonon scattering contribution given by the
relation:

$$R_{\rm ph}(T) = R_{1}\left\lfloor\frac{T}{\Theta_{D}}\right\rfloor^{m}\int_{0}^{ \Theta_{D}/T}\frac{z^{m}dz}{(1-e^{-z})(e^{z}-1)},$$
(1)

with R₁ being a proportionality constant. The best fit to our data was
obtained with m = 3.0 and Θ_(D)   1100 K. This values of the Θ_(D) is
comparable to those (746-1050 K) previously reported based on the
specific heat and resistivity measurements on polycrystalline
samples.[17, 18, 33, 34, 35] This result suggests that the normal-state
transport properties are well

Figure 4: (a) Low-field M(T) curves of MgB₂ single crystals measured at
20 Oe for fields parallel and perpendicular to the c axis. (b) M(H)
hysteresis curves measured at 5 K.

Figure 3: (a) Resistance of a MgB₂ single crystal as a function of
temperature for magnetic fields from 0 to 5 T. The residual resistivity
ratio is about 5. The insets show the resistance for fields of 0.0, 0.5,
1.0, 2.0, 3.0, 4.0, and 5 T both perpendicular and parallel to the
crystal c axis. (b) The upper critical field determined from a 10

described by an electron-phonon interaction without taking an
electron-electron interaction into account.

The two insets of Fig. 3(a) show the field dependencies of the in-plane
resistances while maintaining the applied field perpendicular to the
current path. The magnetoresistance at 5 T was found to change with the
direction of the field with respect to the crystal axis. For fields
parallel to the _ab_ -plane (_H_∥_ab_) and to the c axis (_H_∥_c_), the
magnetoresistances at 40 K were ≈3

Figure 4(a) shows the _M_(_T_) curves measured at 20 Oe in the
zero-field-cooling (ZFC) and the field-cooling (FC) modes. The _T__(c)
onset was observed to be ∼ 38 K, which is consistent with the value
obtained from the resistance measurement. The difference between the FC
and the ZFC data is quite small compared to those for polycrystalline
samples[8, 14] and for single crystals prepared at higher
temperature,[16] suggesting that pinning is very weak in our single
crystals. The different values of _M_(_T_) for different field
directions give a demagnetization factor D ≈ 0.6, which is consistent
with the value calculated by considering the shape of the crystals.

Figure 4(b) shows the magnetic hysteresis curves _M_(_H_) at 5 K. The
_M_(_H_) data show a negligible paramagnetic background, which is quite
different from the case reported by de Lima _et al.[3]_ There are two
notable features in the magnetic hysteresis curves. One is an asymmetry
between the ascending and the descending branches, which has been not
observed in bulk pinning dominated polycrystals[19, 20] and thin
films.[24, 25] The other is the fact that the _J__(c)(H) is not a
monotonically decreasing function of the magnetic field. The value of
_J__(c) , as estimated by using the Bean model,[36] has a maximum of ∼
1.5×10⁵ A/cm² at _H_∼ 500 Oe. The first behavior can be explained by
surface pinning in very clean samples, not by the strong extrinsic
pinning sites, such as grain boundaries and crystallographic
defects.[37]

In summary, we report the transport and the magnetic properties for
high-quality MgB₂ single crystals. A superconducting transition occurred
at 38 K with a sharp transition width of 0.3 K. The low-field
magnetization and the magnetic hysteresis curve showed the bulk pinning
to be very weak. From the resistance measurement, a Θ_(D) of ∼ 1100 K
was obtained using the Bloch-Grunisen formula, which suggested that the
normal-state transport properties were dominated by an electron-phonon
interaction rather than by an electron-electron interaction. A RRR of 5
and a γ of 3.0 ± 0.2 at temperatures around 32 K were obtained.

This work was supported by the Ministry of Science and Technology of
Korea through the Creative Research Initiative Program. This work was
partially supported by the National Research Laboratory Program through
the Korea Institute of Science and Technology Evaluation and Planning.
We acknowledge Do Hyun Lim and Taek-Jung Shin at Iljin Diamond Co.,
Ltd., for their help.

## References

* [1] J. Nagamatsu _et al._, Nature (London) **410**, 63 (2001). * [2]
W.N. Kang _et al._, Appl. Phys. Lett. **79**, 982 (2001). * [3] P.
Senoer _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **65**, 012505 (2001). * [4] G. Karapetrov
_et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **86**, 4374 (2001). * [5] O.F. de Lima _et
al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **86**, 5974 (2001). * [6] Y. Zhu _et al._,
cond-mat/0105311 (unpublished). * [7] Y.Y. Xue _et al._,
cond-mat/0145478 (unpublished). * [8] C.U. Jung _et al._, Physica C
**353**, 162 (2001). * [9] P.C. Canfield _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**86**, 2423 (2001). * [10] D.K. Finnemore _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**86**, 2420 (2001). * [11] D.K. Finnemore _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**86**, 2420 (2001). * [12] S.L. Bud’ko _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **63**,
220503 (2001). * [13] M.H. Jung _et al._, Chem. Phys. Lett. **343**, 447
(2001). * [14] Y. Kong _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **64**, 020501 (2001). *
[15] C.U. Jung _et al._, Appl. Phys. Lett. **78**, 4157 (2001). * [16]
M. Xu _et al._, Appl. Phys. Lett. **79**, 2779 (2001). * [17] S. Lee _et
al._, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **70**, 2255 (2001). * [18] S.L. Bud’ko _et
al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **86**, 1877 (2001). * [19] Ch. Walti _et al._,
Phys. Rev. B **64**, 172515 (2001). * [20] M.-S. Kim _et al._, Phys.
Rev. B **64**, 012511 (2001). * [21] Y. Takano _et al._, Appl. Phys.
Lett. **78**, 2914 (2001). * [22] Y. Bugoslavsky _et al._, Nature
(London) **410**, 563 (2001). * [23] D.C. Labalestier _et al._, Nature
(London) **410**, 186 (2001). * [24] K.H.P. Kim _et al._,
cond-mat/0103176 (unpublished). * [25] W.N. Kang _et al._, Science
**292**, 1523 (2001). * [26] C.B. Eom _et al._, Nature (London) **411**,
558 (2001). * [27] Y. Bugoslavsky _et al._, Nature (London) **411**, 561
(2001). * [28] Charles P. Poole, _R. Handbook of Superconductivity_
(Academic Press, Florida, 2000), pp. 31 32. * [29] F. Simon _et al._,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **87**, 047002 (2001). * [30] S. Patnaik _et al._,
Supercond. Sci. Technol. **14**, 315 (2001). * [31] J. Kortus _et al._,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **86**, 4656 (2001). * [32] M. Monteverde _et al._,
Science **292**, 75 (2001). * [33] C.U. Jung _et al._ (unpublished) or
Jae-Hyuk Choi, Ph.D. dissertation, Postech, Korea, 2001. * [34] R.K.
Kremer _et al._, cond-mat/0102432 (unpublished). * [35] F. Bouquet _et
al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **87**, 047001 (2001). * [36] M. Putti _et al._,
cond-mat/0106344 (unpublished). * [37] C.P. Bean, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**8**, 250 (1962). * [38] M. Pissas _et al._, cond-mat/0108513
(unpublished).
