Effect of substituting Ce at the Ca site on the high-temperature
superconductor Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O_(8 + δ)

V. P. S. Awana, Latika Menon, and S. K. Malik

Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, Homi Bhabha Road, Bombay 400005,
India

Received 3 February 1995

###### Abstract

We have investigated the system Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O_(8 + δ) (0≈x ≈0.5) to study
the effect of substituting Ce for Ca on superconductivity in the
Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O_(8 + δ) system (T_(c) = 90 K). It is observed that, on 25
at.

+ Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL REVIEW B

## 1 Introduction

In many high-T_(c) superconducting families of compounds, the rare
earths (_R_) play a vital role in establishing the proper structure. The
magnetic interaction of the rare-earth ions with electrons/holes
responsible for superconductivity is generally found to be very weak in
these oxide systems so that superconductivity is not affected by the
presence of magnetic rare-earth ions which otherwise act as pair
breakers in many systems. In so far as rare-earth-based
_K_Ba₂Cu₃O_(7 − y) (_R_:123) compounds are concerned, Ce, Pr, and Tb
compounds present an interesting situation as they do not show
superconductivity, unlike other rare-earth-based _R_:123 compounds.[1,
2] A great deal of work has been done on R_(1 − x)Pr_(x)Ba₂Cu₃O_(7 − y)
compounds (see, for instance, Refs. [3, 4, 5]). The depression of
superconducting transition temperature T_(c) in these compounds with
increasing Pr concentration has been explained in more than one way,
such as hole filling mechanism based on the tetravalent state of Pr,[3,
4] by localization of mobile holes[6] considering the rare earths to be
in the trivalent state and also by the pair-breaking effect due to the
magnetic 4f electrons of Pr which are presumed to hybridize with the
conduction electrons/holes.[7, 8] The case of Ce and Tb is even more
interesting since these do not even substitute isostructurally in the
_R_:123 lattice.

In the Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O_(8 + δ) (Bi:2212) system, there have been several
studies on the cationic substitution of Ca by the rare earths (see, for
instance, Refs. [9, 10, 11]). Complete replacement of Ca by rare earths
can be achieved which results in the suppression of T_(c). However, in
this regard, reports on the Ce, Pr, and Tb doping are very few.[12, 13,
14] Recently, we have examined, in detail, the effect of Pr and Tb
substitution at the Ca site on the superconductivity in
Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O_(8 + δ)[15] In this paper we present the results of Ce
substitution in Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O_(8 + δ) We find that Ce can be substituted
up to 50 at.

## 2 Experimental details

Samples of Bi₂Sr₂Ca_(1 − x)Ce_(x)Cu₂O_(8 + δ) with x = 0.0, 0.1, 0.2,
0.25, 0.3, 0.4, and 0.5 were synthesized from the solid-state reaction
route. Details of the heat treatment are given elsewhere.[13] The
samples were examined by x rays at room temperatures using a JEOL x-ray
diffractometer to determine their phase purity and the lattice
parameters. Low-field (50 Oe) susceptibility measurements were made
using a superconducting quantum interference device magnetometer to look
for the superconducting transition through the onset of diamagnetic
signals. Standard four-probe dc resistivity measurements were also
carried out on these samples to confirm the superconducting transition
temperature (T_(c)) values. High-field (5 kOe) paramagnetic
susceptibility measurements were made in the normal state of the samples
in the temperature range of 2-400 K to obtain information about the
magnetic moment and the nature of Ce ions.

## 3 Results and discussion

Powder x-ray-diffraction studies on the above-mentioned Ce-substituted
Bi:2212 samples suggest that these are single phase in nature. The
observed lines can be indexed on the basis of an orthorhombic structure.
The lattice parameters, obtained from a least-squares fit of the
observed d values, are given in Table 1. The a lattice parameter of
Bi₂Sr₂Ca_(1 − x)Ce_(x)Cu₂O_(8 + δ) system increases, while the c lattice
parameter decreases with increasing Ce substitution. An increase in the
a lattice parameter is due to the excess oxygen in the system
accompanying the replacement of Ca²⁺ by Ce, which is consistent with
similar replacement of Ca²⁺ by other R³⁺ ions.[10, 11] The c lattice
parameter of these samples is found to decrease with increasing Ce
substitution for Ca in this system.

Results of low-field susceptibility measurements on
Bi₂Sr₂Ca_(1 − x)Ce_(x)Cu₂O_(8 + δ) samples are shown in Fig. 1, where
susceptibility is plotted as a function of temperature. It is noted that
while Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O_(8 + δ) is superconducting with diamagnetic onset
superconducting T_(c) of 95 K, the decreases with increasing Ce
concentration. Four-probe dc resistivity measurements confirm the T_(c)
values obtained from low-field susceptibility measurements. The T_(c)
values for various superconducting samples of the
Bi₂Sr₂Ca_(1 − x)Ce_(x)Cu₂O_(8 + δ) series are given in Table 1 and are
also plotted in Fig. 2 as a function of Ce concentration x. Complete
suppression of superconductivity is observed for x≈0.25. This implies
that even 25 at.

It is interesting to mention here that Ce can exist in a material in 3+
or in 4+ or in an intermediate valence state; the trivalent state being
the most commonly observed. The ionic size of Ce⁴⁺ is smaller than that
of Ca²⁺, while that of Ce³⁺ is comparable to that of Ca²⁺ in the same
coordination number. [13] Since the c parameter of the
Bi₂Sr₂Ca_(1 − x)Ce_(x)Cu₂O_(8 + δ) system is seen to decrease with
substitution of Ce for Ca, crystallographically it seems that Ce exists
more towards its 4+ valence state in this system. As remarked above,
replacement of Ca by Ce quenches superconductivity of Bi:2122 much
faster in comparison with other rare earths. Because the T_(c)
depression in Bi:2122 due to rare-earth substitution does not depend on
the rare-earth ion magnetic moment, [9, 10, 11] the other possibility in
such a situation is the effect of hole filling due to allovalent
substitution. Therefore, the present results suggest that the hole
filling due to the substitution of nearly tetravalent Ce for divalent Ca
is more than that in the case of other trivalent rare earths which can
happen if Ce exists in 4+ valence state in this system.

To substantiate the above reasoning, we have carried out
magnetic-susceptibility measurements on
Bi₂Sr₂Ca_(1 − x)Ce_(x)Cu₂O_(8 + δ) samples in the paramagnetic state. It
is worth mentioning here that Ce³⁺ (4f^(1, 6)F₅₂) is a magnetic ion
which gives rise to a Curie-Weiss-type temperature-dependent
susceptibility, while Ce⁴⁺ (4f⁰) ion is completely nonmagnetic and gives
rise to largely temperature-independent susceptibility. Figure 3 shows a
plot of susceptibility versus temperature for various
Bi₂Sr₂Ca_(1 − x)Ce_(x)Cu₂O_(8 + δ) samples in a field of 5 kOe. It is
observed that the susceptibility of all the samples is small and largely
temperature independent, especially above 100 K, with a shallow minimum
around 200 K, indicating that the Ce ions are in the nonmagnetic state.
At low temperatures (below 100 K) there is a small Curie-Weiss tail in
the susceptibility which suggests the presence of a small fraction of
Ce³⁺ ions often stabilized by lattice defects, impurities or local
variations in the oxygen content.

Figure 1: Low-field magnetic susceptibility vs temperature for the
Bi₂Sr₂Ca_(1 − x)Ce_(x)Cu₂O_(8 + δ) system for various values of x.
Samples with x≈0.25 are nonsuperconducting.

Figure 3: Plot of magnetic susceptibility vs temperature for the
Bi₂Sr₂Ca_(1 − x)Ce_(x)Cu₂O_(8 + δ) system for different x. Inset shows
the plot of inverse susceptibility vs temperature for the same samples.

Figure 2: T_(c) versus x behavior for the
Bi₂Sr₂Ca_(1 − x)Ce_(x)Cu₂O_(8 + δ) system.

It is interesting to compare the magnetic behavior of the
Bi₂Sr₂Ca_(1 − x)Ce_(x)Cu₂O_(8 + δ) system (Fig. 3) with that of the
Bi₂Sr₂YCu₂O_(8 + δ) system (Fig. 4). Both Y³⁺ and Ce⁴⁺ are nonmagnetic
ions. Hence the observed susceptibility of these systems in a clean
phase is supposed to contain the possible contribution of copper moments
only. It is noteworthy that, in the case of the Y-substituted Bi:2212
sample, the magnetic susceptibility is two orders of magnitude higher
than that of the Ce-substituted samples. In fact the Cu moments are
presumed to order antiferromagnetically in the Y-substituted sample at
high temperatures (T_(N)∼300 K).[11] In both the situations,
superconductivity is not observed down to a temperature of 5 K.
Nonobservation of superconductivity in these compounds is thought to be
due to the decrease in the number of carriers (holes) in Cu-O planes. As
both Y and Ce reside between the two flat Cu-O planes in Bi:2212
structure, it appears that Ce⁴⁺ has an influence on the adjacent Cu-O
planes resulting in a lowering or quenching of the Cu moments as well.

As far as the effect of rare-earth substitution for Ca on the
superconductivity of Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O_(8 + δ) is concerned, the entire
rare-earth family can be divided as follows. First are those rare earths
which possess the 3+ valence state in these compounds, e.g., Y, Nd, Sm,
Eu, Gd, Tb, Dy, Ho, Er, and Tm, etc.[9, 10, 11] and the second are the
nearly tetravalent ones, e.g., Ce. Depending on their formal valence
states in doped Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O_(8 + δ) system, different rare-earth ions
substituted at the Ca²⁺ site neutralize holes from the adjacent Cu-O
planes and, as a result, completely suppress superconductivity of the
system at a critical concentration of the doped rare earth whichdemends
on the rare-earth valence. This critical concentration is about 50 at.

## IV Summary and conclusions

The above results can be summarized as follows:

1. Up to 50 at. 2. In comparison with other trivalent rare earths, the
amount of Ce required for quenching superconductivity of the Bi:2212
system is nearly half (∼25 3. Magnetic-susceptibility measurements
reveal that Ce is nonmagnetic in the Bi₂Sr₂Ca_(1 − x)Ce_(x)Cu₂O_(8 + δ)
system implying a valence state of nearly 4+ for Ce.

In conclusion, x-ray diffraction, low- and high-field
magnetic-susceptibility results indicate that Ce exists in the nearly 4+
state in the Bi:2212 system. As a result, it provides comparatively more
hole filling in the system than other rare earths and leads to
relatively faster quenching of superconductivity.

## References

* [1] L. Soderholm, K. Zhang, D. G. Hinks, M. A. Beno, J. D. Jorgensen,
C. U. Segre, and I. K. Schuller, Nature (London) **328**, 604 (1987). *
[2] H. B. Liu, D. E. Morris, and A. P. B. Sinha, Phys. Rev. B **45**,
2438 (1992). * [3] A. P. Reyes, D. E. MacLaughlin, M. Takigawa, P. C.
Hammel, R. H. Heffner, J. D. Thompson, J. E. Crow, A. Kebede, T.
Mihalisin, and J. Schwegler, Phys. Rev. B **42**, 2688 (1990). * [4] C.
L. Seamen, J. J. Neumeier, M. B. Maple, L. P. Le, G. M. Luke, B. G.
Sternlieb, Y. J. Uemura, J. H. Brewer, R. Kadono, R. F. Keifl, S. R.
Krictzman, and T. M. Riseman, Phys. Rev. B **42**, 6801 (1990). * [5] S.
K. Malik and C. V. Tomy, in _Physical and Material Properties of High
Temperature Superconductors_, edited by S. K. Malik and S. S. Shah (Nova
Science, New York, 1994), p. 283. * [6] J. Fink, N. Nucker, H. Romberg,
M. Alexander, M. B. Maple, J. J. Neumeier, and J. W. Allen, Phys. Rev. B
**42**, 4823 (1990). * [7] Yunhui Xu and Weiyan Guan, Phys. Rev. B
**45**, 3176 (1992). * [8] S. K. Malik, C. V. Tomy, and Parag Bhargava,
Phys. Rev. B **44**, 7042 (1991). * [9] V. P. S. Awana, S. K. Agarwal,
R. Ray, S. Gupta, and A. V. Narlikar, Physica C **191**, 43 (1992). *
[10] C. N. R. Rao, R. Nagarajan, R. Vijayaraghavan, N. Y.
Vasanthacharya, G. V. Kulkarni, G. Ranga Rao, A. M. Umarji, P.
Somasundaram, G. N. Subbanna, A. R. Raju, A. K. Sood, and N.

Figure 4: Plot of magnetic susceptibility vs temperature for
Bi₂Sr₂YCu₂O_(8 + δ) Inset shows the plot of inverse susceptibility vs
temperature for the same.

Chandrabhas, Supercond. Sci. Technol. **3**, 242 (1990). * [11] J. M.
Tarascon and B. G. Bagley, in _Chemistry of Superconducting Materials_,
edited by Ferell A. Vanderah (Noyes, Park Ridge, NJ, 1993), p. 310. *
[12] A. Sawa, T. S. Han, T. Iwamatsu, H. Uwe, and T. Sakudo, Physica B
**165-166**, 1553 (1990). * [13] V. P. S. Awana, S. K. Agarwal, A. V.
Narlikar, and M. P. Das, Phys. Rev. B **48**, 1211 (1993). * [14] Y.
Gao, P. Pernambuco-Wise, J. E. Crow, J. O’Reilly, N. Spencer, H. Chen,
and R. E. Salomon, Phys. Rev. B **45**, 7436 (1992). * [15] V. P. S.
Awana, Laitika Menon, and S. K. Malik, Phys. Rev. B **51**, 9379 (1995).
