# Chromium clustering and ordering in Hg1-_x_Cr_x_Sr2CuO4+_d_

O. Chmaissem, D. N. Argyriou, D. G. Hinks, and J. D. Jorgensen

Materials Science Division and Science and Technology Center for
Superconductivity, Argonne National Laboratory, Argonne, Illinois 60439

B. G. Storey, H. Zhang, L. D. Marks, Y. Y. Wang, and V. P. Dravid

Department of Materials Science and Engineering and Science and
Technology Center for Superconductivity, Northwestern University,
Evanston, Illinois 60208

B. Dabrowski

Physics Department, Northern Illinois University, DeKalb, Illinois 60115

6 July 1995

###### Abstract

Solid-solution compounds where Cr, Re, and other metals are substituted
for Hg in Hg-Ca-Ba-Cu-O superconductors have been reported to exhibit
enhanced flux-pinning behavior. We have determined the structural
modifications resulting from the incorporation of Cr in
Hg1-_x_Cr_xSr2CuO4+_δ_ (for x = 0.4) using neutron powder diffraction,
electron diffraction, and lattice imaging. Cr substitutes at the Hg
site, but is displaced to allow tetrahedral coordination by oxygen
atoms. Additional oxygen is incorporated to provide four oxygen atom
neighbors for each Cr atom. These CrO4 units cluster to form a supercell
of approximate dimensions 5a x 5a x 2c in which Cr-rich and Hg-rich
regions alternate in all three crystallographic directions. Because the
Cu-O apical bond associated with the CrO4 unit is lengthened to 3.13 A,
the superconducting planes are best viewed as consisting of CuO5
pyramids, oriented up or down as dictated by the supercell ordering,
rather than CuO6 octahedra. Local structural constraints associated with
individual Cr sites require that considerable disorder is present, even
in the supercell. Extended defects in this supercell (e.g., columns of
CuO6 octahedra associated with Hg-rich regions) may contribute to the
enhanced flux pinning.

2001 613-1829/95/52(21)/15636(8)/S06.00

## Introduction

A remarkable enhancement of flux-pinning behavior achieved by chemical
substitution in HgBa2Ca_n_-1Cu_n_O2_n_+2+_δ_ compounds has recently been
reported by Shimoyama _et al._[1, 2] In earlier experiments it had been
found that substitution of Cr (and later Re) on the Hg site enabled the
synthesis of (Hg,Cr)Sr2CuO4+_δ_, where all of the Ba had been replaced
by the smaller Sr ion.[3] These new Sr-substituted compounds were
initially of interest because of their improved chemical stability. It
was later realized that these new materials exhibited flux-pinning
properties substantially better than the Ba-containing compounds.[1]
This behavior was attributed to the decrease in the interlayer distance,
i.e., the thickness of the blocking layer between CuO2 planes, resulting
from the smaller Sr ions. Decreasing this distance would be expected to
increase flux pinning by increasing the coupling between pancakelike
vortices to form vortex lines.[4, 5]

In later work, however, Shimoyama _et al._ used high-pressure synthesis
techniques to partially substitute Cr, Mo, or Re on the Hg site without
the replacement of Ba by Sr.[2] These compounds also showed enhanced
flux pinning, even though the interlayer distance was not shortened
(and, in fact, was lengthened slightly in some cases). Thus it was
concluded that shortening of the interlayer distance could not be solely
responsible for the enhanced flux pinning.

Prior to these reports, such enhancements of flux-pinning behavior were
achieved only by methods such as radiation damage.[6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11]
The ability to enhance flux pinning by chemical substitution provides
opportunities for the study of the structure modifications that can give
rise to such phenomena and, more importantly, could lead to the
development of processing methods that will be applicable on an
industrial scale and will have substantial impact on the utilization of
these materials.

In this paper we report the structure of the solid-solution compound
Hg1-_x_Cr_xSr2CuO4+_δ_ (for x = 0.4) as determined by neutron powder
diffraction, electron diffraction, and lattice imaging. The local
structures around Cr and Hg atoms are sufficiently different that a
refinement of the average structure projected into the fundamental
tetragonal unit cell provides a clear picture of the distortions
resulting from the incorporation of Cr. Electron diffraction and lattice
imaging show how Cr- and Hg-rich regions order in all three
crystallographic directions to form a supercell of approximate
dimensions 5a x 5a x 2c. Cr is incorporated in the form of CrO4
tetrahedra, resulting in a dramatic lengthening of the corresponding
Cu-O apical bond to 3.13 A. Thus the CuO6 octahedra of the ideal
HgBa2CuO4+_δ_ structure are, in effect, replaced by CuO5 pyramids that
point either up or down as dictated by the supercell ordering. Because
the dimensions of the alternating Cr- and Hg-rich regions are smaller
than typical magnetic vortex dimensions and they are ordered into a
regular lattice, the supercell structure is not likely to explain the
enhanced flux pinning. However, local constraints that govern how
individual CrO4 tetrahedra can arrange themselves into clusters require
that considerable disorder must exist in the supercell. Evidence for
this disorder is seen in the electron-diffraction data. Extended defects
in the supercell, for example, extended Hg-rich regions resulting in
columns of CuO₆ octahedra, could explain the enhanced flux pinning.

## Synthesis and characterization

For the study of the solid-solution structure, we synthesized a sample
with a large Cr concentration. HgO, Cr₂O₃, Sr(NO₃)₂, and CuO powders
were mixed to provide an overall composition of
Hg_(0.7)Cr_(0.3)Sr₂CuO_(4 + δ). First, a Cr_(x)Sr₂CuO₂ precursor was
prepared by reacting the mixed powder at 700 ^(∘)C for 3 h and then at
900 ^(∘)C for 18 h in flowing oxygen gas. Then HgO was added to the
precursor and the sample was pelletized and sealed in an evacuated
quartz tube which was heated at a rate of 3.5 ^(∘)C/min to 870 ^(∘)C.
The sample was maintained at this temperature for 6 h before cooling at
a rate of 3.5 ^(∘)C/min to room temperature. The resulting sample showed
(Hg_(x)Cr)Sr₂CuO_(4 + δ) as the major phase and SrCuO₂ and SrHgO₂ as
impurity phases, resulting in a Cr concentration higher than that of the
starting composition. The superconducting properties were studied by ac
magnetic susceptibility and resistivity measurements, as shown in
Fig. 1. The superconducting transition temperature was about 60 K.

## Neutron powder diffraction

Neutron-powder-diffraction measurements were performed on the Special
Environment Powder Diffractometer at Argonne’s Intense Pulsed Neutron
Source.[12] Data were analyzed by the Rietveld technique, using the gsas
code,[13] over the d-spacing range 0.5−4 A, which included 1289 Bragg
peaks. Since no supercell reflections were visible in the
neutron-diffraction data, the average structure (i.e., superposition of
cells containing either Cr or Hg) was refined, with partial occupancies
for the sites associated with Cr and Hg local environments. This
technique provides useful information in the present case because the
local structures in the vicinity of Cr and Hg are sufficiently different
to be resolved using the neutron-powder-diffraction data. SrCuO₂ and
SrHgO₂, which appear in small concentrations, were included as impurity
phases in the Rietveld refinement. Figure 2 shows the raw diffraction
data and best-fit Rietveld profile. Refined values of the widths of
diffraction lines were comparable to the instrument resolution,
suggesting no significant strain or particle size broadening.

It was found that Cr substitutes for Hg (as expected), but the Cr atoms
are displaced from the ideal (0,0,0) site along the ⟨100⟩ direction.
This displacement allows the Cr atom to achieve a tetrahedral
coordination to four oxygen-atom neighbors. Two of these neighbors are
the original apical oxygen atoms [O(2)] which are displaced to a new
(x, 0, z) site, O(2)^(′), to form the appropriate bonds to Cr.
Interstitial oxygen [O(3)] provides the other two oxygen atoms for the

Figure 3: (a) Proposed local structure for
Hg_(1 − x)Cr_(x)Sr₂CuO_(4 + δ) based on refinement of an average
structure model of the fundamental cell dimensions using
neutron-powder-diffraction data. Cr atoms achieve tetrahedral
coordination by displacing the apical oxygen atoms to a new site
[O(2)^(′)] and incorporating two additional oxygen atoms per Cr atom at
the in-plane site O(3). The coordinated tilting of CuO₆ octahedra and
spatial constraints on the placement of O(3) atoms tends to produce the
local Cr ordering shown. Bond lengths are in Å units. (b) The ideal
structure of HgBa₂CuO_(4 + δ) (Ref. [14]) is shown, for comparison.

Figure 2: Best-fit Rietveld refinement profile showing observed (+) and
calculated (line) data. The markers below the profile correspond to
Bragg peak positions for (top to bottom)
(Hg_(1 − x)Cr_(x))Sr₂CuO_(4 + δ), SrHgO₂, and SrCuO₂. The difference
between observed and calculated values is shown at the bottom. The
refined background has been subtracted.

tetrahedron around Cr. These O(3) oxygen atoms are also displaced from
the ideal interstitial (1/2,1/2,0) site, along the (110) direction to an
(_x_,x,0) site (with x = 0.372) to achieve appropriate bond lengths to
Cr. Each Cr atom pulls enough interstitial oxygen [O(3)] into the
structure to achieve tetrahedral coordination to oxygen. The fraction of
displaced apical oxygen atoms, _n_[O(2)’], is nominally equal to the
number of interstitial oxygen atoms, _n_[O(3)]. One might expect
_n_[O(3)]>_n_[O(2)’] since additional interstitial oxygen may be
required to create carriers in the CuO2 planes. Such a difference is
observed, but our error bars are not small enough to assign any physical
significance to this observation. The local structure around the Cr site
is illustrated in Fig. 3.

In modeling a structure such as this, in which atoms are displaced from
their ideal (high-symmetry) sites, multiple new sites are produced. In
the actual structure, only one of these sites can be occupied, since the
multiple sites are typically too close together to allow simultaneous
occupation. Thus the actual local structure violates the symmetry of the
average structure being used as a refinement model. We have selected a
combination of Cr, O(2)’, and O(3) sites that defines a nearly perfect
CrO4 tetrahedron, as shown in Fig. 4. This configuration together with
the short Cr-O bond lengths suggests that Cr is in the +6 state.

In addition to the displacements of near-neighbor oxygen atoms around
the Cr site, we observe a significant displacement along the _c_-axis of
part of the oxygen atoms in the CuO2 plane. In the final refinements,
part of the planar oxygen was placed at the ideal (1/2,0,1/2) site,
O(1), and part was placed at a (1/2,0,_z_) site, O(1)’. The Cu atoms
were also found to be displaced out of the plane. The best refinement
model was found to be one in which all Cu atoms were displaced along z
by a small amount. These displacements in the CuO2 plane can be readily
understood in terms of the asymmetry of the environment above and below
the CuO2 plane. We learned from electron diffraction (discussed later)
that the Cr atoms order such that Cr and Hg atoms alternate along the c
axis. Thus, for Cr concentrations approaching 50

In order to test the uniqueness of the refinement model, alternate
models that allow atom displacements along different directions were
compared. For the analysis of these data, a number of alternate models
were evaluated. It was found, for example, that displacements of Cr
along the (100) direction gave better fits than displacements along the
(110) direction. Likewise, displacements of the apical oxygen atom
[ideal site O(2)] to an (_x_,0,_z_) position gave better fits than to an
(_x_,x,_z_) position. Split or displaced sites for Cu and O(1) were
found to give significantly better fits than allowing anisotropic
temperature factors for these atoms. Larger than normal temperature
factors for the Hg, O(2), and Sr atoms indicate that these atoms are
also displaced from their ideal sites. These displacements are to be
expected. However, the magnitudes are within the resolution of our data
(typically

Figure 4: Bond lengths and angles between Cr and its surrounding oxygen
atoms. A near perfect tetrahedron is formed.

less than 0.2 A). For this reason, we chose not to assign displaced
sites to these atoms. For Hg and O(2), the refined anisotropic
temperature factors indicate that the maximum displacements are in the
plane, as expected.

Bond lengths and angles for the Hg_(1 − x)Cr_(x)Sr₂CuO_(4 + δ) structure
are compared to those for the ideal HgBa₂CuO_(4 + δ) structure [14] in
Table II (see also Fig. 3). The c axis (which, for a single-Cu-layer
compound, is the "blocking layer" distance) is shortened by 8.6

## Electron Diffraction and Microscopy

Although the neutron-powder-diffraction data are analyzed in terms of
the basic HgBa₂CuO_(4 + δ) tetragonal unit cell, electron-diffraction
measurements done on the same samples show that the actual structure is
a supercell of approximate dimensions 5_a_×5_a_×2c. The supercell
reflections are clearly defined in the electron-diffraction data and
were always found in the diffraction patterns along the right zones (for
instance, ⟨110⟩, ⟨111⟩, etc). Hundreds of grains have been checked. No
other superlattices were found. Even though these superlattice spots are
not visible in the neutron-powder-diffraction data (much lower
sensitivity compared to that of the electron beam), a fairly detailed
picture of the actual structure emerges by combining the
electron-diffraction results with what is learned about the local
structure from neutron diffraction.

Transmission electron microscope (TEM) samples were prepared by crushing
powder from the neutron-diffraction sample in two drops of anhydrous
methanol and dispersing it onto clean 1000-mesh TEM grids. These grids
were immediately inserted into the microscope to limit contamination.
High-resolution electron microscope (HREM) images and
electron-diffraction patterns were taken using a Hitachi H9000 and a
Philips CM30 operated at 100 and 300 kV. Negatives were digitized to 8
bits using an Optronics P1000 densitometer and analyzed with Semper 6
software. Northwestern University multislice imaging software (numis)
was used to simulate electron-diffraction patterns and HREM images.

Electron-diffraction patterns for the major zone axes ⟨001⟩, ⟨100⟩, and
⟨110⟩ are shown in Figs. 5(a)-5(c). All diffraction patterns were
indexed based on the HgBa2CuO4+_d_ tetragonal unit cell. Sharp modulated
reflections exist along **g**1/_s_1/5_1/2_ and **g**1/_s_1/5_1/2_ for
all of the ⟨110⟩ patterns observed. The modulation was only found close
to **g**1/_s_1/5_1/2_ or **g**1/_s_1/5_1/2_ and was also observed in the
⟨301⟩, ⟨112⟩, and ⟨111⟩ zone axes, but not on the ⟨100⟩ and ⟨001⟩ zone
axes. The modulation is actually incommensurate with the reflections
lying along **g**1/_s_1/491/2_; for simplicity, **g**1/_s_1/5_1/2_ will
be used to approximate it. The presence of reflections along both
**g**1/_s_1/5_1/2_ and **g**1/_s_1/5_1/2_, combined with the lack of a
twin structure in ⟨110⟩ HREM images, requires the modulation to be in
both directions. The modulation was identical under 100 and 300 kV
electron imaging conditions, thus ruling out electron radiation damage.

A chemical ordering, based on a Cr content near 50

α{cos²[ π(x + y) ] + cos²[ π(x − y) ]},
(1)

defining the Cr occupancy in the first layer, and

1 − α{cos²[ π(x + y) ] + cos²[ π(x − y) ]},
(2)

defining the Cr occupancy in the second layer along the c axis, where x
and y are along [100] and [010], respectively, and α=1 for 50

Because there is little phase information in a diffraction pattern, any
model constructed from diffraction patterns must be verified with HREM.
Figure 7 shows a ⟨110⟩ HREM image with a multislice simulation based on
the model in Fig. 6. The simulation provides a good visual fit with the
experi

Figure 5: Experimental electron diffraction patterns for the ⟨001⟩,
⟨100⟩, and ⟨110⟩ zone axes (a)–(c). Corresponding multislice simulations
of the model in Fig. 6. Reflections due to the modulation are evident in
the ⟨110⟩ zone axis (c) and (f) and are forbidden in the ⟨001⟩ and ⟨100⟩
(a), (b), (d), (e).

Figure 6: Average occupancy of Cr atoms at Hg sites for two alternating
Hg-O planes along the ⟨001⟩ axis. The occupancies in (a) and (b) are
determined by Eqs. (1) and (2), respectively. Large open circles
represent O atoms; solid circles of varying size represent Cr atoms. The
sizes of the solid circles are proportional to the Cr fractional
occupancies. The Hg occupancy is one minus the Cr occupancy.

mental image. It should be noted that the HREM simulation matches the
experimental images on the large scale just as well as on the small
scale. A small part was cut (about a supercell size which should present
the whole structure) from a large picture of the simulated image to
paste directly into the experimental image so that a more quantitative
comparison could be made; i.e., the experimental mean level and the
range of the intensity match the simulation as well. Such a fit should
generally be considered insufficient without strong supporting data,
e.g., the electron- and neutron-diffraction analyses. Simpler structures
may be quantitatively refined to obtain the atomic positions;[17]
however, the modulation presented here is too large and complicated for
this method. The modulation is evident by the broad fringes in the (225)
and (225) planes. HREM of the (100) and (001) axes show the basic
undoped structure as a result of the homogenous Cr concentration along
these projections.

Evidence for chemical disorder can be seen in the c-axis diffraction
pattern, shown in Fig. 8. The modulated reflections are forbidden in the
zero-order Laue zone of the (001) zone axis: however, weak diffuse
reflections are present at the Bragg locations for the modulation. The
modulation has allowed Bragg reflections in the first-order Laue zone
(FOLZ) and strong sharp reflections are evident. Our calculations show
the FOLZ to be 17.5 A⁻¹ along c*, which clearly shows the doubling of
the c axis. Several other zone axes, e.g., (100), in which the modulated
reflections are forbidden also show diffuse intensity resulting from the
chemical disorder.

Quantitative x-ray microanalysis in an analytical electron microscope
(Hitachi HF-2000) was utilized in conjunction with standards for
composition determination. Sensitivity factors (k factors) were obtained
from SrHgO₂, SrCuO₂, and SrCrO₄ compounds. The overall cation
composition is indicated in Table 3. These measurements indicate a Cr
concentration of 0.38(3) atoms per formula unit. This is consistent with
the observation of SrCuO₂ and SrHgO₂ as minor impurity phases,
suggesting a Cr concentration higher than the starting composition
(0.3). Site occupancies obtained from the Rietveld refinement of
neutron-diffraction data (Table 1) can also be used to estimate the Cr
content, but these can be subject to systematic errors when nonharmonic
static displacements are present in the structure [as is certainly true
for the Hg and O(2) atoms]. The average of Cr, O(2)^(′), and O(3)
occupancies from the refinement suggests a Cr content of about 0.42, in
reasonable agreement with the x-ray microanalysis. We conclude that the
Cr content is near 0.4. Unsuccessful attempts to form other compositions
with different Cr concentrations suggest that Cr may not form a
continuous solid solution in this compound.

Electron-energy-loss spectroscopy (EELS) was employed to determine the
valence state (and coordination) for Cr ions

  --------- --------------------- -------------------
  Element    Nominal composition   Chemical analysis
  Hg                 0.7                0.73(3)
  Cr                 0.3                0.38(3)
  Sr                  2                    2
  Cu                  1                 1.04(8)
  --------- --------------------- -------------------

Table 3: Quantitative x-ray microanalysis. The numbers are normalized to
two strontium atoms per unit cell.

Figure 8: A much longer exposure of the (001) pattern in Fig. 5(a) shows
diffuse intensity and the first-order Laue zone. Chemical disorder is
indicated by the presence of diffuse intensity at the forbidden Bragg
locations for the modulation in the zero-order Laue zone [see inset
(a)]. The Bragg reflections for the modulation are allowed in the
first-order Laue zone and are easily seen as sharp spots [inset (b)].

Figure 7: Multislice image simulation of the model presented in Fig. 6
pasted into an experimental HREM image. The mean level of the simulation
is the same as the local area into which it is pasted. Therefore,
contrast variations may be directly compared. The modulation is
evidenced by the broad fringes on the (225) and (225) planes. The
parameters used in the simulation are spherical aberration=0.9 mm,
defocus = −150 nm, and thickness=8.1 nm.

in the structure.[18] Cr_(L23) absorption edge fine structure for
Hg_(1 − x)Cr_(x)Sr₂CuO_(4 + δ) was compared with that for CrO₃ and
Cr₂O₃, as shown in Fig. 9. It is notable that the absorption energy
onset for the Cr_(L23) edge in Hg_(1 − x)Cr_(x)Sr₂CuO_(4 + δ) is
significantly higher [by 3.4(±0.4) eV] than that from Cr₂O₃, indicating
a higher oxidation state for chromium. The absorption energy onset, the
energy loss near edge structure, and the L2/L3 intensity ratio are
consistent with a Cr valence of 6+, as was also concluded from its
tetrahedral coordination in the structure and from the short Cr-O bond
lengths.

For simple chromate compounds, a tetrahedral environment is typically
found for both Cr⁵⁺ and Cr⁶⁺ [r(Cr⁵⁺) is slightly larger than r(Cr⁶⁺)]
in which Cr-O bond lengths are approximately 1.66 A (for example,
ammonium salts). In more complicated structures where a network of Cr
tetrahedra exists, Cr-O bond lengths of 1.75 A are found.[19] These
values are in good agreement with those found in
Hg_(1 − x)Cr_(x)Sr₂CuO_(4 + δ); two Cr-O bond lengths are 1.656 and
1.732 A. Also, the tetrahedral angles of 107.7^(∘), 114^(∘), and 112^(∘)
are in reasonable agreement with structural data of other chromates. For
example, in CrO₂Cl₂ the tetrahedral angles are 105^(∘), 113^(∘), and
109.5^(∘).[19] The similarity between the crystal chemistry of Cr⁵⁺ and
Cr⁶⁺ does suggest that in Hg_(1 − x)Cr_(x)Sr₂CuO_(4 + δ), Cr may assume
either charge state or both. However, as shown above, the results from
EELS conclusively demonstrate that Cr is in the 6+ state.

## Discussion and Conclusions

A simplified picture of the supercell structure is that Cr-rich regions
of dimensions 2.5a x 2.5a x (9.6_ x 9.6_ x 8.7 A³) alternate in all
three dimensions with Hg-rich regions (which have a nearly normal
HgBa₂CuO_(4 + δ) structure except for the shortened apical bond length).
Perpendicular to the ⟨001⟩ axis, distorted CuO₂ planes mark the
boundaries between these regions. Because the apical Cu-O bond in the
direction of Cr is elongated to 3.13 A while that in the direction of Hg
is shortened to 2.25 A, the conduction plane is best viewed as
consisting of CuO₅ pyramids (pointing towards Hg) rather than CuO₆
octahedra. These pyramids point up or down in accordance with the
supercell.

The local structure, learned from neutron powder diffraction, provides
important insight concerning why the superstructure forms. The cell
doubling along the c axis occurs because of the tendency for Hg and Cr
to alternate along this direction. A local structure in which Cr is
present both above and below the same Cu atom is energetically
unfavorable because it requires the Cu atom to be in square planar
coordination (noninally Cu³⁺) rather than pyramidal or octahedral
coordination. The size of Cr clusters in the a - b plane is limited by
frustration effects involving the O(3) oxygen atoms, as illustrated in
Fig. 10. Each Cr atom is bonded to two O(3) atoms in the plane. This
places constraints on the orientation of CrO₄ units as the size of the
cluster grows. At a cluster size of two to three fundamental unit cell
dimensions, it is no longer possible to add additional CrO₄ units.
Figure 10 shows only one layer, but the problem becomes even more
constrained when the next layer along the c axis is considered, where,
for 50

From the structural features determined in this study, it is not clear
why this solid-solution compound should exhibit

Figure 10: Representation of one layer of the a - b plane of
Hg_(1 − x)Cr_(x)Sr₂CuO_(4 + δ) showing a possible arrangement of CrO₄
units on the available sites to form a cluster that agrees with the
probability illustrated in Fig. 6(b). Frustration of the orientation of
CrO₄ units requires disorder in the cluster and limits cluster size.

Figure 9: Cr_(L23) EELS spectra from Hg_(1 − x)Cr_(x)Sr₂CuO_(4 + δ)
(data) are compared with those from CrO₃ and Cr₂O₃ (narrow and bold
solid lines, respectively). The absorption energy onset, near-edge
structure, and L2/L3 ratios provide a consistent picture that Cr is in a
6+ valence state (as for Cr⁶⁺ in CrO₃).

enhanced flux pinning. The Cr- and Hg-rich regions are smaller than
typical magnetic vortex dimensions and are regularly arranged in the
crystal. Thus the average superstructure does not define any preferred
location for a vortex. If extended defect formation contributes to flux
pinning, it must involve defects in the superstructure. Since the
supercell is necessarily disordered, extended defect formation is
likely. However, such defects are beyond the length scale investigated
in this work. We can speculate on two possibilities. For Cr contents
near, but less than, 50

The ability to enhance flux pinning by chemical substitution could have
important consequences for the application of copper-oxide
superconductors. The results of this study suggest that structural
modifications in which clustering and extended defect ordering occur
should be investigated. A troublesome side effect is that such defects
can significantly distort the CuO₂ plane and may substantially lower
T_(c). The highest T_(c)’s are thought to be achieved for flat CuO₂
planes and long Cu-O apical bonds, as are present in the
HgBa₂Ca_(n − 1)Cu_(n)O_(2n + 2 ⋅ δ) compounds.[14, 20, 21] The effect of
distortions of the CuO₂ plane have been studied in La_(2 − x)M_(x)CuO₄
(M = Sr, etc.) compounds, where T_(c) decreases systematically as the
tilt angle of the CuO₆ octahedra increases.[22, 23, 24] One would like
to enhance flux pinning as much as possible while minimizing the
decrease in T_(c) caused by the chemical substitution. Thus, in future
work, it will be important to investigate the structural effects of
different chemical substitutions and the effects of varying the defect
concentration, especially in the dilute limit.

###### Acknowledgements.

We wish to acknowledge useful discussions with G. W. Crabtree, U. Welp,
K. E. Gray, J. F. Mitchell, and K. R. Poeppelmeier. This work was
supported by the U.S. Department of Energy, Division of Basic Energy
Science–Materials Sciences, under Contract No. W-31-109-ENG-38 (J.D.J.
and D.G.H.) and by the National Science Foundation, Office of Science
and Technology Centers under Grant No. DMR 91-20000 (O.C., D.N.A.,
B.G.S., H.Z., L.D.M., Y.Y.W., V.P.D., B.D.).

## References

* [1] J. Shimoyama, S. Hahakura, R. Kobayashi, K. Kitazawa, K. Yamafuji,
and K. Kishio, Physica C **235**-**240**, 2795 (1994). * [2] J.
Shimoyama, K. Kishio, S. Hahakura, K. Kitazawa, K. Yamaura, Z. Hiroi,
and M. Takano, in _Advances in Superconductivity VII_, Proceedings of
the 7th International Symposium on Superconductivity (ISS’94),
Kitakyushu, edited by K. Yamafuji and T. Morishita (Springer-Verlag,
Tokyo, 1995). * [3] J. Shimoyama, S. Hahakura, K. Kitazawa, Y. Yamafuji,
and K. Kishio, Physica C **224**, 1 (1994). * [4] K. E. Gray and D. H.
Kim, Physica C **180**, 139 (1991). * [5] K. E. Gray, Appl. Supercond.
**2**, 295 (1994). * [6] J. Schwartz and Shiming Wu, J. Appl. Phys.
**73**, 1343 (1993). * [7] J. Schwartz _et al._, IEEE Trans. Appl.
Supercond. **AS-3**, 1652 (1993). * [8] W. Gerhauser, H.-W. Neumuller,
W. Schmidt, G. Ries, G. Saemann-Ischenko, H. Gerstenberg, and F.-M.
Sauerzopf, Physica C **185**-**189**, 2273 (1991). * [9] W. Kritscha, F.
M. Sauerzopf, H. W. Weber, G. W. Crabtree, Y. C. Cheng, and P. Z. Jiang,
Europhys. Lett. **12**, 179 (1990). * [10] H. W. Weber, Supercond. Sci.
Technol. **5**, S19 (1992). * [11] B. M. Vleck, M. C. Frischnerz, S.
Fleshler, U. Welp, J. Z. Liu, J. Downey, K. G. Vandervoort, G. W.
Crabtree, M. A. Kirk, J. Giapintzakis, and J. Farmer, Phys. Rev. B
**46**, 6441 (1992). * [12] J. D. Jorgensen, J. Faber, Jr., J. M.
Carpenter, R. K. Crawford, J. R. Haumann, R. L. Hitterman, R. Kleb, G.
E. Ostrowski, F. J. Rotella, and T. G. Wortton, J. Appl. Crystallogr.
**22**, 321 (1989). * [13] A. C. Larson and R. B. Von Dreele, General
Structure Analysis System, University of California, Berkeley,
1985-1990. * [14] J. L. Wagner, P. G. Radaelli, D. G. Hinks, J. D.
Jorgensen, J. F. Mitchell, B. Dabrowski, G. S. Knapp, and M. A. Beno,
Physica C **210**, 447 (1993). * [15] J. D. Jorgensen, B. W. Veal, A. P.
Paulikas, L. J. Nowicki, G. W. Crabtree, H. Claus, and W. K. Kwok, Phys.
Rev. B **41**, 1863 (1990). * [16] Y. Shimakawa, J. D. Jorgensen, D. G.
Hinks, H. Shaked, R. L. Hitterman, F. Izumi, T. Kawashima, E.
Takayama-Muromachi, and T. Kamiyama, Phys. Rev. B **50**, 16 008
(1994). * [17] H. Zhang, L. D. Marks, Y. Y. Wang, H. Zhang, V. P.
Dravid, P. Han, and D. A. Payne, Ultramicroscopy **57**, 103 (1995). *
[18] J. J. Paterson and O. L. Krivanek, Ultramicroscopy **32**, 319
(1990). * [19] A. F. Wells, _Structural Inorganic Chemistry_, 4th ed.
(Clarendon, Oxford, 1975). * [20] P. G. Radaelli, J. L. Wagner, B. A.
Hunter, M. A. Beno, G. S. Knapp, J. D. Jorgensen, and D. G. Hinks,
Physica C **216**, 29 (1993). * [21] J. L. Wagner, B. A. Hunter, D. G.
Hinks, and J. D. Jorgensen, Phys. Rev. B **51**, 15 407 (1995). * [22]
B. Buchner, M. Breuer, A. Freimuth, and A. P. Kampf, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**73**, 1841 (1994). * [23] B. Dabrowski, Z. Wang, K. Rogacki, J. D.
Jorgensen, R. L. Hitterman, J. L. Wagner, B. A. Hunter, and D. G. Hinks,
Physica C **217**, 455 (1993). * [24] H. Takahashi, H. Shaked, B. A.
Hunter, P. G. Radaelli, R. L. Hitterman, D. G. Hinks, and J. D.
Jorgensen, Phys. Rev. B **50**, 3221 (1994).

Figure 5: Experimental electron diffraction patterns for the ⟨001⟩,
⟨100⟩, and ⟨110⟩ zone axes (a)−(c). Corresponding multislice simulations
of the model in Fig. 6. Reflections due to the modulation are evident in
the ⟨110⟩ zone axis (c) and (f) and are forbidden in the ⟨001⟩ and ⟨100⟩
(a), (b), (d), (e).

Figure 7: Multislice image simulation of the model presented in Fig. 6
pasted into an experimental HREM image. The mean level of the simulation
is the same as the local area into which it is pasted. Therefore,
contrast variations may be directly compared. The modulation is
evidenced by the broad fringes on the (225) and (225) planes. The
parameters used in the simulation are spherical aberration = 0.9 mm,
defocus = –150 nm, and thickness = 8.1 nm.

Figure 8: A much longer exposure of the ⟨001⟩ pattern in Fig. 5(a) shows
diffuse intensity and the first-order Lane zone. Chemical disorder is
indicated by the presence of diffuse intensity at the forbidden Bragg
locations for the modulation in the zero-order Laue zone [see inset
(a)]. The Bragg reflections for the modulation are allowed in the
first-order Laue zone and are easily seen as sharp spots [inset (b)].
