## Superconductivity at 15 K in the metastable ScNi₂B₂C compound

H. C. Ku, C. C. Lai, Y. B. You, J. H. Shieh, and W. Y. Guan

_Department of Physics, National Tsing Hua University, Hsinchu, Taiwan
300, Republic of China_

A superconducting transition around 15-16 K is reported for metastable,
as-melted ScNi₂B₂C samples. Zero resistivity T_(c)(zero) was observed at
14.6 K with T_(c)(onset) around 16.5 K. A consistent diamagnetic T_(c)
signal was observed around 14.8-15.6 K. The new superconducting phase
was identified as isostructural to the quaternary LuNi₂B₂C-type phase
with tetragonal lattice parameters a=3.34 A and c=10.2 A. This
superconducting phase is unstable due to the extremely small Sc³⁺ ionic
size, where the Sc atom is located in the cavity formed by the B-Ni-B-C
network and no superconducting transition could be observed down to 5 K
after 1050 degC annealing.

Superconducting intermetallic compounds with relatively high transition
temperatures up to 23 K have been reported in R - _T_-B-C systems, where
R = Y or rare earths and T = Ni, Pd, or Pt.1-5 In the nickel-based
system, the superconducting phase has been identified as a quaternary
LuNi₂B₂C-type tetragonal structure with space group _14/mmm_. The
structure is a three-dimensionally connected framework with LuC
NaCl-type layers alternated with Ni₂B₂, layers where nickel is
tetrahedrally coordinated by four boron atoms.4 The phase formation was
reported in _R_Ni₂B₂C (_R_ = Y, La, Ce, Sm, Tb, Dy, Ho, Er, Tm, or Lu)
with a maximum T_(c) of 16.6 K for nonmagnetic LuNi₂B₂C, and a
next-highest T_(c) of 15.6 K for nonmagnetic YNi₂B₂C.1,3,4 For magnetic
rare-earth compounds, a lower superconducting transition was observed
for R = Ho, Er, and Tm, due to the magnetic pair-breaking effect.3 Here
we report the discovery of a high-T_(c) metastable compound ScNi₂B₂C,
which is isostructural to LuNi₂B₂C.

All _R_Ni₂B₂C (_R_ = Sc or Lu) samples were prepared by arc melting the
high-purity elements (Sc and Lu: 99.9

Powder x-ray diffraction data for all as-melted ScNi₂B₂C samples show
multiphase patterns. However, a pattern search indicates that the major
phase can be indexed as the LuNi₂B₂C-type tetragonal structure (space
group _14/mmm_), with lattice parameters a=3.34(1) A, c=10.2(1) A and
unit-cell volume V = 114(1) A3. These values are smaller than a=3.464 A,
c=10.63 A and V = 127.6 A3 for isostructural LuNi₂B₂C due to the smaller
Sc³⁺ ionic radius of 0.732 A as compared with 0.85 A for the larger Lu³⁺
ion.4

Two samples (_A_ and _B_) with better x-ray diffraction patterns were
used for transport and magnetic measurements. The temperature dependence
of the electrical resistivity ρ(T) for the as-melted ScNi₂B₂C sample A
is shown in Fig. 1. Zero resistivity T_(c)(zero) was observed at 14.6 K,
with the superconducting onset (1

Figure 1: Temperature dependence of electrical resistivity ρ(T) for
as-melted ScNi₂B₂C (sample _A_). Data for stable, isostructural 16.6-K
superconductor LuNi₂B₂C are also included for reference.

Figure 2: Low-temperature mass magnetic susceptibility χ_(g)(T) for
as-melted ScNi₂B₂C (sample _B_).

around 16.5 K. The room-temperature resistivity is 82.8 _m_O cm, with a
resistivity ratio _r_(_RT_)/_r_(20 K) of 2.33. Data for isostructural
superconductor LuNi₂B₂C are also included with _T_c(zero) at 16.7 K and
_T_c(onset) around 17.6 K. The room-temperature resistivity is 41.2 _m_O
cm, with a resistivity ratio _r_(_RT_)/_r_(20 K) of 4.43.

The low-temperature mass magnetic susceptibility _kh__g_(_T_) of the
second as-melted ScNi₂B₂C sample B is shown in Fig. 2 for both
zero-field-cooled (ZFC) and field-cooled (FC) measurements in a low
applied field of 20 G. A diamagnetic superconducting transition signal
was observed around 14.8 K for this sample. A large ZFC shielding signal
of -6.7 x 10-3 emu/(g _G_) at 5 K for the bulk sample indicates that the
bulk superconductivity effect (using the calculated x-ray density of
5.42 g/cm3). For the powdered sample (200 mesh), the diamagnetic
shielding signal decreases to -1.7 x 10-3 emu/(g _G_) due to the
multiphase nature of the as-melted sample.

The diamagnetic T_(c) transition is field independent in a low applied
field of 5-50 G, but slightly sample dependent due to different
arc-melting conditions. The highest diamagnetic T_(c) signal around 15.6
K for sample A was observed, as compared with 14.8 K for sample B (Fig.
3).

Contrary to the stable superconducting LuNi₂B₂C phase, superconductivity
in as-melted ScNi₂B₂C samples is metastable. After annealing the samples
at 1050degC in a sealed quartz tube (wrapped in Ta foil and then sealed
under argon) for 24 h and water quenching, no superconducting transition
can be observed down to 5 K from the low-temperature mass magnetic
susceptibility _kh__g_(_T_) data (Fig. 4). The x-ray powder diffraction
patterns for annealed samples show no trace of the tetragonal
LuNi₂B₂C-type phase, indicating that this superconducting tetragonal
phase is entropy stabilized during the arc-melting process. Contrary to
the weak, temperature-dependent, Pauli-like paramagnetic behavior of the
annealed ScNi₂B₂C sample [+9.1 x 10-6 emu/(g _G_) at 5 K], the annealed
LuNi₂B₂C bulk samples exhibits an excellent T_(c) transition of 16.7 K
with a large and almost temperature-independent ZFC shielding signal of
-2.62 x 10-2 emu/(g G) (x-ray density 8.49 g/cm3).

The entropy-stabilized or metastable tetragonal phase in ScNi₂B₂C is
apparently closely related to the size effect. Since the LuNi₂B₂C-type
phase is a variant on the ThCr₂Si₂-type structure with additional carbon
in the Lu plane, the Lu atom is located in the cavity formed by the
B-Ni-B-C network.4 After the substitution of small Lu ions by even
smaller Sc, the structure is thus highly unstable and the phase exists
only in the high-temperature, high-entropy region of the phase diagram,
with an exceptionally small tetragonal c lattice parameter. Similar
metastability due to the size effect was observed in many other
superconducting systems. For example, in the _R_Ru₄B₄ system, the
metastable phase was observed for the 7.2-K ScRu₄B₄ superconductor, as
compared with the stable 2.1-K LuRu₄B₄ superconductor.6 In the
superconducting _R_Ir₄B₄ systems (_R_ = Ho, Er, or Tm), all
superconducting ErRh₄B₄-type phases are metastable.7 The unstable 23-K
Y-Pd-B-C phase2 is probably due to a similar origin, where the
high-_T__c_ YPd₂B₂C-type phase can be stabilized only with the
off-stoichiometric composition of YPd₅B₃C_(1 − x).

The T_(c) of 15-16 K for the present metastable ScNi₂B₂C compound is
only slightly lower than 16.7 K for the LuNi₂B₂C compound, and almost
equal to 15.6 K for the YNi₂B₂C compound (with a larger Y³⁺ ionic radius
of 0.893 A), which indicates that the superconducting properties in this
system may be irrelevant to the relative size of nonmagnetic R 3+ ions
(_R_ = Sc, Y, or Lu). Detailed studies of metastability, lattice
parameter variation, and superconducting properties of the
pseudo-quaternary (Lu_(1 − x)Sc_(x))Ni₂B₂C system are in progress.
Preliminary results indicate that the unstable boundary is near the
Sc-rich region (_x_ > 0.5), with a stable T_(c) of 15.9 K for the
(Lu_(0.5)Sc_(0.5))Ni₂B₂C compound. For the LuNi₂B₂C compound (_x_ = 1),
a lower critical filed _H__c_1(15 K) of 70 G and an upper critical field
_H__c_2(15 K) of 7 kG were observed from magnetization _M_(_H_)
measurements for this type-II superconductor.

We thank Professor M. K. Wu and Professor T. J. Yang for helpful
discussions. This work was supported by the National Science Council of
the Republic of China under Contract No. NSC83-0212-M007-069.

Figure 3: Superconducting transition onset from diamagnetic measurements
for as-melted ScNi₂B₂C (samples A and _B_).

* (16) R. Nagarajan, C. Mazumdar, Z. Hossain, S. K. Dhar, K. V.
Gopaalakrishnan, L. C. Gupta, C. Godart, B. D. Padalia, and R.
Vijayaraghavan, Phys. Rev. Lett. **72**, 274 (1994). * (17) R. J. Cava,
H. Takagi, B. Batlogg, H. W. Zandbergen, J. J. Krajewski, W. F. Peck,
Jr., R. B. van Dover, R. J. Felder, T. Siegrist, K. Mizuhashi, H.
Eisaki, S. A. Carter, and S. Uchieda, Nature **367**, 146 (1994). * (18)
R. J. Cava, H. Takagi, H. W. Zandbergen, J. J. Krajewski, W. F. Peck,
Jr., T. Siegrist, B. Batlogg, R. B. Van Dover, R. J. Felder, K.
Mizuhashi, J. O. Lee, H. Eisaki, and S. Uchieda, Nature **367**, 252
(1994). * (19) T. Siegrist, H. W. Zandbergen, R. J. Cava, J. J.
Krajewski, and W. F. Pech, Jr., Nature **367**, 254 (1994). * (20)
High-^(′) Update **8**, No. 5 (1994). * (21) H. C. Ku, D. C. Johnston,
B. T. Matthias, H. Barz, G. Burri, and L. Rinderer, Mater. Res. Bull.
**14**, 1591 (1979). * (22) H. C. Ku, B. T. Matthias, and H. Barz, Solid
State Commun. **32**, 937 (1979).
