# Muon spin rotation and SQUID investigation of superconductivity in
(NH3)_x_NaK2C60 (_x_ 0.7)

M. Ricco,* T. Shiroka, E. Zannoni, F. Barbieri, and C. Bucci

Dipartimento di Fisica and Istituto Nazionale di Fisica della Materia,
Universita di Parma, Parco Area delle Scienze 7/a, 43100 Parma, Italy

43100 Parma, Italy Istituto Maspec-CNR, Parco Area delle Scienze, Loc.
Fontanini, 43010 Parma, Italy

Received 28 May 2002; revised manuscript received 4 October 2002;
published 31 January 2003

###### Abstract

The family of superconducting fullerides (NH3)3,NaK2C60 shows an
anomalous correlation between _T_c and lattice parameter. To better
understand the origin of this anomaly we have studied a representative x
= 0.72 compound using superconducting quantum interference device
(SQUID) magnetometry and muon spin rotation spectroscopy. The lower
critical field _H_c1, measured by the trapped magnetization method, is
less than 1 G, a very small value as compared with that of other
fullerides. Muon spin depolarization in the superconducting phase shows
also quite small local-field inhomogeneities, of the order of those
arising from nuclear dipolar fields. On the other hand, the 40-T value
for _H_c2, as extracted from magnetometry data, is comparable to that of
other fullerides. We show that these observations cannot be rationalized
within the framework of the Ginzburg-Landau theory of superconductivity.
Instead, the anomalous magnetic properties could be interpreted taking
into account the role played by polaronic instabilities in this
material.

2003 67 024519 2003 0163 1829/2003/67(2)024519 67
$$H_{c1}(0)=\frac{\Phi_{0}}{4\,\pi\lambda^{2}}\ln\kappa.$$
(2)

In addition to independent measurements of H_(c1) and H_(c2), as
obtained by standard superconducting quantum interference device (SQUID)
magnetometry, we will provide also the value for λ, which yields a
stringent check of the validity of Eqs. (1) and (2). Since λ represents
the transverse extension of the vortices in the Abrikosov intermediate
phase, its value can be also determined from the local magnetic-field
distribution. It is well known that muon spin rotation (μSR) gives
reasonable estimates of λ, even for irregular flux-line lattices.
Details on SQUID and μSR measurements are given in the next section.

## II Experiment

The samples were prepared following the procedures outlined in Ref. 5.
Stoichiometric amounts of alkali metals (Aldrich, 99.95

dc magnetometry measurements were performed with a Quantum Design SQUID
magnetometer equipped with a home built Helmholtz cube which surrounded
the whole instrument body, thus allowing a reduction of the residual
field on the sample to less than 2 m. The SQUID superconducting magnet
was cooled from RT to liquid-He temperature in zero external field. For
a good thermal contact even at low temperatures the sample was sealed in
a long quartz tube under 1 mbar of He atmosphere. The sample was
suspended in the middle of the tube, whose length was chosen so as to
always have a tube portion face the SQUID coils, even when the sample
had to move in and out of them during the magnetic moment measurement.
This expedient allowed an accurate subtraction of the quartz diamagnetic
contribution.

μSR, which measures the spin precession of implanted muons, is very
sensitive to local magnetic fields and therefore it constitutes a
valuable technique for our purposes. Indeed, when the applied transverse
field exceeds H_(c1), the field distribution of the flux-line lattice
will damp the muon spin precession signal, hence the penetration depth
can be readily extracted [9] from the damping rate.

In common metals and superconductors all the implanted muons usually sit
interstitially and, being screened by conduction electrons, they will
not form any paramagnetic bound state (muonium). Hence their precession
frequency in an external magnetic field remains that of a free particle
(diamagnetic muon). In C₆₀ based superconductors, besides this major
component there is an additional part of implanted muons (typically
10−20

When a superconductor is in the intermediate state, i.e., μ₀H_(c1) < B <
μ₀H_(c2), the muon precession signal will be damped by the inhomogeneous
magnetic-field distribution of the vortices. The expected damping
profile (or the corresponding line shape in Fourier space) in the case
of a triangular flux-line lattice has been computed [10] and, for single
crystals, also successfully measured. Unlike single crystals,
polycrystalline or powder materials exhibit a smeared out magnetic-field
distribution, with the consequence that the μSR line will assume a
Gaussian shape ($\sigma_{\rm sc}$∼0.1−0.6 μs⁻¹ for fullerides) below
T_(c). [9] The established relation between the μSR damping rate
$\sigma_{\rm sc}(0)$ and the internal field rms deviation ΔB is given by
$\Delta B=\sigma_{\rm sc}(0)/2\pi\,\gamma_{\mu}$. Once ΔB is known from
an experiment that measures $\sigma_{\rm sc}(0)$ in the appropriate
intermediate field range μ₀H_(c1) < B < μ₀H_(c2), the penetration depth
λ is given by [10]

$$\lambda\approx 3.71\times 10^{-3}\cdot\left[\frac{\Phi_{0}^{2}}{(\Delta B)^{2}} \right]^{1/4}.$$
(3)

μSR experiments were performed on the EMU spectrometer of the ISIS
Facility (Rutherford Laboratory, UK). The pulsed nature of the muon beam
sets an upper frequency cutoff that prevents the direct observation of
high muonium frequencies. Nevertheless, the interesting fraction of
diamagnetic muons will precess well within the pass band of the
spectrometer and therefore could be readily measured. In our case, the
sample (∼500 mg) was pressed inside an air tight aluminum cell equipped
with a thin (75-μm) Kapton window. A pure silver foil was put both
directly behind the sample and around the cell window to make it easy to
subtract the signal coming from the sample holder.

## III SQUID measurements

### Lower critical field

In spite of many previous measurements of the lower critical field by
SQUID magnetometry in fullerides, [7, 8, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18]
its precise determination is still controversial due to considerable
experimental difficulties. The simplest way to measure H_(c1) consists
in observing the field at which the M = M(H) curve starts to deviate
from linearity. Unfortunately data on fullerides never show a good
linearity and this brings to an overestimate of the H_(c1) value.
Alternative methods based on Bean’s critical state model [19] give quite
different values. [14] Recently it was shown [16] that the measurement
of the trapped magnetization in the intermediate phase yields a more
reliable determination of H_(c1). The procedure is as follows: first the
sample is cooled in zero field from above T_(c) and its initial magnetic
moment (M₁) is measured (ideally it should be zero, but a residue always
exists). Then a magnetic field H is applied for at least 30 s and, after
switching it off, the final moment (M₂) is measured. When the applied
field exceeds a threshold value $H_{\rm thr}$ the magnetic flux is
trapped inside the sample. This trapped magnetization, given by the
difference M₂ − M₁, is then plotted against the applied field H, as
shown in Fig. 1 for measurements on (NH₃)_(0.72)NaK₂C₆₀ performed at 7
K. The increase of the trapped magnetization above $H_{\rm thr}$, which
follows a linear behavior at all the investigated temperatures, allows a
much more precise determination of H_(c1) than alternative procedures.
The fitted value for trapping onset (0.51 G for the linear fit shown in
Fig. 1) is related to the lower critical field value by
$H_{c1}\!=\!H_{\rm thr}/(1-n)$, where n is the demagnetization factor.
Preliminary measurements on powdered samples gave essentially the same
results, although the trapped magnetization values were rather scattered
around the (same) fit line (see Fig. 1). The use of (weakly compressed)
pellets remarkably reduced the spread without an appreciable change in
$H_{\rm thr}$, confirming that the demagnetization factor of a set of
independent spheres (n = 1/3), correctly adopted for powders,[16] is
appropriate also for pellets.

The results of several H_(c1) measurements at different temperatures are
illustrated in Fig. 2. The zero-temperature value H_(c1)(0) = 0.87 G was
then extrapolated from a parabolic fit (BCS weak coupling gave a similar
result and experimental errors do not allow us to distinguish between
the different behaviors).

The striking feature about the H_(c1)(0) is its low value with respect
to that of other fullerides, shown in Table 1 for a comparison. Even an
unphysical linear fit of the data would at most yield an extrapolated
value H_(c1)(0) ∼ 1.2 which still is one order of magnitude smaller than
H_(c1)(0) for the quoted fullerides. The obvious suspicion that the
powdered nature of the sample affects the measured values was addressed
in a previous experiment, reported in Ref. [16], where a powdered
RbCs₂C₆₀ sample and a single crystal were compared and found to have the
same lower critical field value. Hence the measured low H_(c1) value
given here will be considered an intrinsic feature of the compound.

### Upper critical field

The upper critical field H_(c2) can be determined from the temperature
dependence of the field-cooled magnetization.[14] In this case the
sample is cooled in an externally applied field H(0.5 < H < 5.5 T)
starting from T  > T_(c) and its magnetic moment is measured. The value
of the external field corresponds to H_(c2) when the temperature equals
the relative T_(c). Figure 3 shows an example of such a measurement in a
3-T magnetic field.

The data above T_(c) were fitted to a Curie behavior coming from
paramagnetic impurities, to which one must add a temperature-independent
component resulting from Pauli, Landau, and core contributions to
susceptibility (upper part of the figure).[6] After subtraction of all
these contributions the curve shown in the lower part of Fig. 3 is
obtained. T_(c) was estimated as the temperature at which the linear
interpolation of the data in the superconducting state intersects the
normal-state baseline. The observed superconducting transition
temperature T_(c)(H) decreases on increasing $H_{\rm appl}$. In Fig. 4
we report the dependence of the critical temperature on $H_{\rm appl}$.
Unfortunately, the maximum field available in our conventional SQUID
magnetometer ($H_{\rm max}\!=\!5.5$ T) does not allow us to investigate
the full range of $T_{c}\!=\!T_{c}(H_{\rm appl})$ dependence

  Compound               H_(c1)(T = 0) [G]     Ref.
  --------------------- ------------------- -----------
  Rb₃C₆₀                        ∼50             13
  Rb₃C₆₀                        13*             16
  RbCs₂C₆₀                      ∼80             14
  RbCs₂C₆₀                      16*             16
  K₃C₆₀                         12*             16
  (NH₃)_(0.72)NaK₂C₆₀        0.87(9)*        this work

Table 1: Comparison of lower critical fields H_(c1) for several
alkali-metal-doped fullerides (powders denoted by asterisk).

Figure 2: Measured H_(c1) values as a function of temperature. The
extrapolation of the parabolic fit at T = 0 yields H_(c1)(0) = 0.87(9)
G.

Figure 1: The trapped magnetization M₂ − M₁ as a function of the applied
field H in (NH₃)_(0.72)NaK₂C₆₀. The lower critical field H_(c1) is
determined from the onset of the magnetization which starts is trapped
at $H\!=\!H_{\rm thr}$.

so that we have to resort to extrapolation. The extrapolated field value
at zero temperature (relevant for ξ calculation) is usually extracted
from the slope of the observed linear behavior using the
Werthamer-Helfand-Hohenberg (WHH) formula:[20]

$$H_{c2}(0) = 0.69\ \ T_{c} \cdot \frac{\partial H_{c2}}{\partial T}\Bigg{|}_{T - T_{c}}.$$
(4)

The value for the derivative is 5.0 +- 0.3 T/K and from Eq. (4) we find
H_(c2)(0) = 40 ± 2 T. If we use Eq. (1), we can extract a coherence
length ξ = 2.86(8) nm. Both of these values, although different, do not
appear to be inconsistent with those of other C60 based
superconductors.[21]

Similarly to the measurement of H_(c1) it is important to examine
possible factors that could affect the estimated value for H_(c2):

(i) According to analogous measurements on K3C60,[22] the parabolic
H_(c2)(T) dependence predicted by the WHH theory[20] was not observed:
the use of such theory to extract H_(c2)(0) was shown to produce an
underestimated value. By guessing from Ref. 22 a plausible enhancement
factor of 2 in our data, we point out that Eq. (1) would predict a still
smaller ξ (∼ 2 nm), which has an important role in the discussion that
will follow.

(ii) It is known that sample granularity enhances the measured H_(c2)(0)
values due to the onset of zero-dimensional (0-D) fluctuations, as
detected in conductivity measurements in K3C60.[23] This effect is
expected to become dramatic when the grain size d becomes comparable to
ξ. Indeed, also conventional superconductors like Al, in a suitable fine
granular form, can have an upper critical field nearly two orders of
magnitude larger than that of bulk samples.[24] The granularity of the
material we have investigated, however, involves an average particle
size of ∼2 μm, which is more than three orders of magnitude larger than
any estimate for ξ, thus allowing us to definitely exclude any
appreciable H_(c2) enhancement effect due to granularity.

In conclusion we can state that the coherence length we find from H_(c2)
measurements is accurate and, due to its inverse square-root dependence
from H_(c2), even large uncertainties in the determination of the latter
would not appreciably affect the ξ value.

## IV Muon spin rotation measurements

As briefly described in Sec. II, μSR damping rate measurements yield a
reasonable value for the penetration depth λ, even for an irregular
flux-line configuration, typical for powders or polycrystalline samples.
In our experiment the sample was field cooled in an external transverse
field of 50 G from above T_(c) and the muon precession histograms
measured at fixed T. The presence of two precessing signals at all
temperatures indicated that a fraction of the total muons came at rest
in the sample holder while the other in the sample. The two components
could be easily singled out thanks to their differences not only in
amplitude, but mainly in their precession frequency (diamagnetic shift
due to superconducting material) and damping rate (internal field second
moment due to flux-line lattice). In accounting for the whole expected
signal, a missing fraction was detected: it is well known that this
fraction is entirely due to the formation of endohedral muonium–i.e.,
muonium atoms at rest within the C60 cage–while the formation of muonium
adduct radicals is inhibited in C60₆₀^(n−) compounds. This fraction is
"missing" because, at the applied field of 50 G, its characteristic
frequency is too high to be observable at the ISIS facility. In passing,
it must be pointed out that this missing muonium fraction is not
interesting for the present experiment, where we look for the
information yielded by the unbound muons in the material’s interstitial
sites.

The signal due to the sample shows a Gaussian decay with a decay rate σ,
which was fitted using the function sin (ωt + ϕ)exp(−σ²r̂/2). Figure 5
shows the fitted values for σ in the temperature range 4 < T<15 K. The
temperature-independent residual value as observed above T_(c) is due to
the magnetic-field distribution of the randomly oriented nuclear dipoles
(¹H,¹⁴N,²³Na,³⁹,⁴⁰Al,¹³C).

The additional broadening below T_(c), due to the flux-line lattice
formation, is smaller than the nuclear term and much smaller than that
found in similar fullerides such as Rb3C60

Figure 4: Critical temperature dependence on $H_{\rm appl}$. The upper
critical field H_(c2)(0) = 40 ± 2.5 T is found from the extrapolated
slope $\partial H_{\rm appl}/\partial T_{c}$ using formula (4).

Figure 3: Upper graph: Field-cooled magnetization of (NH3)072NaK2C60 at
H = 3 T: the fitted curve accounts for paramagnetic impurities and Pauli
contributions. Lower graph: After the subtraction of the above-mentioned
contributions, T_(c), at $H_{\rm appl}$ = H_(c2), is determined from the
intersection of the two linear fits.

and K₃C₆₀. [9] The superconducting contribution and the normal-state
nuclear dipole broadening add in quadrature, hence the former
($\sigma_{\rm sc}$) can be extracted. The temperature dependence of
$\sigma_{\rm sc}$ was fitted to the phenomenological temperature
dependence:
$\sigma_{\rm sc}(T)\!=\!\sigma_{\rm sc}(0)\left[1-(T/T_{c})^{\alpha}\right]$,
which yields $\sigma_{\rm sc}(0)\!=\!5.5\!\times\!10^{-2}$μs⁻¹ and
α = 2.55. The same experiment was repeated applying a 100-G transverse
field and a similar $\sigma_{\rm sc}$ value to that of the 50-G case was
found, typical of systems with λ ≫ ξ. [10] The value for the London
penetration depth λ can be extracted from Eq. (3) which gives
λ = 1.40μm. This value is more than two times larger than that of other
superconducting fullerides. In thinking of effects that could enhance
the measured λ a possible candidate is the granulometry of the sample,
when the particle size is not much larger than λ. [33] But this is just
our case, where being d − λ, we do expect strong surface effects which
tend to increase the measured λ value with respect to that of a bulk
sample. Although we have no means to implement a quantitative correction
to the measured value, we can definitely state that it represents an
upper limit for the real penetration depth, which certainly cannot be
larger than 1.4 μm.

## V Discussion

In the previous section we described the independent measurements of
H_(c1), H_(c2), and λ and anticipated that they would be used within the
framework of the Ginzburg-Landau-Abrikosov equations (1) and (2). In
principle, the knowledge of H_(c1) and H_(c2) values is sufficient to
extract the coherence length ξ and the penetration depth λ. The
additional experimental value of λ from μSR measurements helps in
checking the internal consistency. From Eq. (1) the experimental value
of H_(c2) = 40 T yields ξ  =  2.86(8) nm; with this value and the
experimental result for H_(c1) = 0.87 G Eq. (2) yields λ = 3.82μm. If
only H_(c1) and H_(c2) were measured, the values for ξ and λ (although
the latter seems considerably larger than the value found in other
superconducting fullerides) would appear acceptable for an extreme
type-II superconductor.

The picture appears inconsistent, however, since we must account for the
_measured_ value of λ = 1.4μm, which is nearly three times smaller than
that predicted by Eqs. (1) and (2). Such a discrepancy is by no means
trivial because, in order to weaken it, one has to make unphysical
assumptions on the other measured parameters, i.e., the two critical
fields. Indeed, as can be seen from Eqs. (1) and (2), even quite a small
variation in λ will determine orders of magnitude variations in the
critical fields.

As an additional check for the observed discrepancy we have also used
some approximate analytical solutions of the Ginzburg-Landau (GL)
equations. Specifically, we compute the muon spin depolarization rate
$\sigma_{\rm sc}$, which can easily be compared with the experimental
value. The calculation requires a numerical solution of the GL equations
which was performed using the efficient algorithm developed in Ref.
[25]. This fast iterative variational procedure, which minimizes the
free-energy density f, gives as an output the local magnetic-field
distribution B = B(x, y). The second moment of the local fields ΔB
yields the damping rate ($\sigma_{\rm sc}$) of the μSR.

The results of this calculation are shown in Fig. 6 which reports the
dependence of $\sigma_{\rm sc}$ on the coherence length ξ as predicted
by the GL equations for a fixed H_(c1) = 0.87 G. The different curves
refer to different values of the applied field in the range 5 < B < 100
G. It appears evident that the maximum predicted value for the muon
decay rate at the applied field of 50 G is 9 × 10⁻³μs⁻¹, much smaller
than the measured value of 55 × 10⁻³μs⁻¹ and, in any case, too small to
be measured. This confirms that the H_(c1), H_(c2), and λ values
measured in (NH₃)_(0.72)NaK₂C₆₀ cannot be representative of a
superconducting system described by the Ginzburg-Landau theory. In
addition, the fact that a series of samples with different ammonia
content have critical temperatures inversely proportional to the density
of states at the Fermi level, as recalled in the Introduction, is
consistent with this conclusion.

Even though the phonon-mediated superconductivity in

Figure 5: μSR Gaussian decay rate as a function of temperature in a 50-G
transverse field. The fit of data below T_(c) yields $\sigma_{\rm sc}$,
from which the field distribution inside the sample is found. The
penetration depth λ is then calculated using Eq. (3).

Figure 6: μSR signal decay rate $\sigma_{\rm sc}$ as a function of
coherence length ξ as obtained from the numerical solution of the GL
equations. The different curves correspond to several values of applied
magnetic field; the lower critical field value was fixed at
H_(c1) = 0.87 G.

fullerides is well established, we suggest that polaron-based theories
of superconductivity can correctly describe some of these systems, such
as those considered in this work. Unlike the BCS or Migdal-Eliashberg
alternatives, the polaronic approach does not require the phonon energy
scale to be much smaller than that of electrons. In fullerides, indeed,
typical phonon energies involved in the superconducting coupling are or
the order of 0.15 eV, due to the intramolecular $H_{\rm g}$ modes of
C₆₀.[26] According to the early predictions of Bulaevskii _et al.[27]_
for the superconducting properties of systems with local pairs, critical
fields and critical length values are expected to be significantly
different from those of ordinary BCS superconductors; in particular, the
lower critical field H_(c1) is expected to be much smaller and the
penetration depth λ much larger than the respective BCS counterparts.
More recently, a polaron-based analysis has been formulated, with the
inclusion of nonadiabatic effects in the Migdal-Eliashberg theory, in
order to better predict transition temperatures and photoelectron
spectra of fullerides.[28] The presence of charge instabilities or
fluctuations (charge disproportion, charge-density waves, etc.)
predicted in polaronic systems manifests itself, indirectly, in
superconducting fullerides in the following circumstances: (i) the NMR
detection of a spin gap in the Na₂CsC₆₀ superconductor as due to the
presence of Jahn-Teller distorted C₆₀^((2, 4)−) originating from a
dynamic charge disproportion;[29] and (ii) the existence of a
nonmagnetic insulating phase in (NH₃)₂NaK₂C₆₀,[30] interpreted in terms
of a possible (dynamic) charge disproportion. Polaronic instabilities
are in general expected at high values of the electron-phonon coupling
constant (λ_(c)∼1.5-2).[31] In the case of fullerides, though, the
coupling values suggested by different experimental techniques (even
though still under debate[32]) settle in a 0.5<λ_(c)< 1.2 range. The
closeness of the upper limit of this range to that of the previously
mentioned polaronic superconductivity boundary could suggest a possible
role played by polarons in these systems.

## VI Conclusions

In this work we have shown that the magnetic properties of the fullerene
based superconductor (NH₃)_(0.72)NaK₂C₆₀ are quite different from those
of other fullerides, namely it displays a very small H_(c1) associated
with very large H_(c2) and λ values. These results cannot be explained
within the framework of the Ginzburg-Landau (GL) theory. It is suggested
that the system considered here represents a borderline case, in which
the nature of superconducting coupling begins to switch from a
phonon-mediated to a polaronic character.

Indeed, electron-phonon interaction could be sufficiently large in
general to make it possible for some systems, like (NH₃)_(x)NaK₂C₆₀, to
exhibit an enhancement of the coupling which, in turn, favors the
development of polaronic instabilities. In the present situation,
specific quantitative predictions for measurable superconducting
quantities are needed in order to understand the experimental results
and clarify the essential nature of superconductivity in fullerides.

###### Acknowledgements.

We thank Professor E. H. Brandt who kindly provided us with the
simulation code for muon spin depolarization calculations and Dr. G.
Salviati with Dr. N. Armani who performed the SEM granulometry
measurements. We acknowledge financial support by the EU Improvement of
Human Potential (IHP) program, which sponsored part of our μSR
experiments at ISIS facility (UK).

## References

* [*] Electronic address: Mauro.Ricco@fis.unipr.it; URL: http://
www.fis.unipr.it/∼ricco/ * [1] O. Zhou, R.M. Fleming, D.W. Murphy, M.J.
Rosseinsky, A.P. Ramirez, R.B. van Dover, and R.C. Haddon, Nature
(London) **362**, 433 (1993). * [2] Y. Iwasa, H. Shimoda, T.T.M.
Palstra, Y. Maniwa, O. Zhou, and T. Mitani, Phys. Rev. B **53**, R8836
(1996). * [3] H. Kitano, R. Matsuo, K. Miwa, A. Maeda, T. Takenobu, Y.
Iwasa, and T. Mitani, Phys. Rev. Lett. **88**, 096401 (2002). * [4] O.
Zhou, T.T.M. Palstra, Y. Iwasa, R.M. Fleming, A.F. Hebard, P.E.
Sulewski, D.W. Murphy, and B.R. Zegarski, Phys. Rev. B **52**, 483
(1995). * [5] H. Shimoda, Y. Iwasa, Y. Miyamoto, Y. Maniwa, and T.
Mitani, Phys. Rev. B **54**, R15 653 (1996). * [6] M. Ricco, T. Shiroka,
A. Sartori, F. Bolzoni, and M. Tomaselli, Europhys. Lett. **53**, 762
(2001). * [7] K. Holczer, O. Klein, G. Gruner, J.D. Thompson, F.
Diederich, and R.L. Whetten, Phys. Rev. Lett. **67**, 271 (1991). * [8]
G. Sparn, J.D. Thompson, R.L. Whetten, S. Huang, R.B. Kaner, F.
Diederich, G. Gruner, and K. Holczer, Phys. Rev. Lett. **68**, 1228
(1992). * [9] W.A. MacFarlane, R.F. Kiefl, S. Dunsiger, J.E. Sonier, J.
Chakhalian, J.E. Fischer, T. Yildirim, and K.H. Chow, Phys. Rev. B
**58**, 1004 (1998). * [10] E.H. Brandt, Phys. Rev. B **37**, 2349
(1988). * [11] C. Politis, A.I. Sokolov, and V. Buntar, Mod. Phys. Lett.
B **6**, 351 (1992). * [12] C. Politis, V. Buntar, W. Krauss, and A.
Gurevich, Europhys. Lett. **17**, 175 (1992). * [13] V. Buntar, U.
Eckern, and C. Politis, Mod. Phys. Lett. B **6**, 1037 (1992). * [14] V.
Buntar, M. Ricco, L. Cristofolini, H.W. Weber, and F. Bolzoni, Phys.
Rev. B **52**, 4432 (1995). * [15] V. Buntar, in _Proceedings of
Fullerenes: Chemistry, Physics and New Directions_, edited by R. S.
Ruoff and K. M. Kadish (Electrochemical Society, Reno, NV, 1995), Vol.
VII, pp. 994-1008. * [16] V. Buntar, F.M. Sauerzopf, and H.W. Weber,
Phys. Rev. B **54**, R9651 (1996). * [17] V.A. Buntar, F.M. Sauerzopf,
H.W. Weber, A.G. Buntar, H. Kumani, and M. Haluska, Low Temp. Phys.
**23**, 267 (1997). * [18] V. Buntar, C. Krutzler, W. Haluska, F. M.
Sauerzopf, H. W. Weber, and H. Kuzmany, in _Proceedings of the Symposium
on Recent Advances in the Chemistry and Physics of Fullerenes and
Related Materials_, edited by K. M. Kadish and R. S. Ruoff
(Electrochemical Society, San Diego, CA, 1998), Vol. 6, pp. 460-468. *
[19] C.P. Bean, Phys. Rev. Lett. **8**, 250 (1962). * [20] N.R.
Werthamer, E. Helfand, and P.C. Hohenberg, Phys. Rev. **147**, 295
(1966).

* [21] M. Baenitz, M. Heinze, K. Luders, I. Werner, and R. Schlogl, in
_Physics and Chemistry of Fullerenes and Derivatives. Proceedings of the
International Winterschool on Electronic Properties of Novel Materials_,
edited by H. Kuzmany, J. Fink, M. Mehring, and S. Roth (World
Scientific, Singapore, 1995), pp. 436-439. * [22] G.S. Boebinger, T.T.M.
Palstra, A. Passner, M.J. Rosseinsky, D.W. Murphy, and I.I. Mazin, Phys.
Rev. B **46**, 5876 (1988). * [23] J.G. Hou, X.D. Xiang, M.L. Cohen, and
A. Zettl, Physica C **232**, 22 (1994). * [24] A. Abeles, R.W. Cohen,
and W.R. Stowell, Phys. Rev. Lett. **18**, 902 (1967). * [25] E.H.
Brandt, Phys. Rev. Lett. **78**, 2208 (1997). * [26] O. Gunnarsson, Rev.
Mod. Phys. **69**, 575 (1997). * [27] L.N. Bulaevskii, A.A. Sobyanin,
and D.I. Khomskii, Zh. Eksp. Teor. Fiz. **87**, 1490 (1984) [Sov. Phys.
JETP **60**, 856 (1984)]. * [28] A.S. Alexandrov and V.V. Kabanov, Phys.
Rev. B **54**, 3655 (1996). * [29] V. Brouet, H. Alloul, T.-N. Le, S.
Garaj, and L. Forro, Phys. Rev. Lett. **86**, 4680 (2000). * [30] M.
Ricco, G. Fumera, T. Shiroka, E. Zannoni, and F. Bolzoni
(unpublished). * [31] P. Paci, E. Cappelluti, C. Grimaldi, and L.
Pietronero, Phys. Rev. B **65**, 012512 (2002). * [32] O. Gunnarsson and
J.E. Han, in _Electronic Properties of Molecular Nanostructures. XVI
International Winterschool_, edited by H. Kuzmany, J. Fink, M. Mehring,
and S. Roth, AIP Conf. Proc. No. 591 (AIP, Melville, NY, 2001), pp.
425-429. * [33] In this case the profile of field distribution inside
the grains has a reduced modulation due to the proximity of the grain
walls, resulting in an apparently higher λ value.
