# Optical conductivity in YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) thin films

A. Pimenov and A. Loidl

Institut fur Physik, Universitat Augsburg, D-86135 Augsburg, Germany

G. Jakob and H. Adrian

Institut fur Physik, Universitat Mainz, D-55099 Mainz, Germany

###### Abstract

The real and imaginary parts of the optical conductivity σ₁+iσ₂ of
partly untwinned YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) thin films were measured by
submillimeter spectroscopy for frequencies from 100 GHz to 1 THz. The
frequency dependence of the conductivity below T_(C) can be described by
a narrow Drude-like peak with strongly temperature-dependent relaxation
rates. σ₁(ν) does not extrapolate to the universal d-wave value at 0 K.
Impurity scattering significantly different to the unitary limit has to
be assumed to achieve agreement with recent theoretical results.
Including published infrared results we present σ₁(ν) in the spectral
range from 0.1−100 THz. [S0163-1829(99)01605-7]

## Introduction

The outstanding importance of measurements of the low-frequency
electrodynamics (ν<1 THz) of high-temperature superconductors was
unambiguously demonstrated during the last years.[1] Specifically, in
addition to infrared (IR) (Refs. 2 and 3) experiments, microwave and
terahertz-spectroscopy experiments were performed in the superconducting
state. And while some experimental results provide experimental evidence
of d-wave superconductivity, a number of open and so far unresolved
questions remain: (i) the frequency dependence of the complex
conductivity below 1 THz is not at all well characterized and it seems
important to determine the spectral shape of the quasiparticle
scattering well below T_(C), (ii) the important role of impurities in
d-wave superconductors is well known: not only the impurity
concentration but also the scattering strength is of outstanding
importance. Up to now for most of the samples investigated it is not
known if unitary scattering or if the Born limit is the more appropriate
approximation, and (iii) there seems to be no convincing experimental
proof of the universal low-temperature dc conductivity, which has been
predicted by P. A. Lee.[4]

A large body of work has been performed on YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) (YBCO) thin
films and single crystals using microwave surface-resistance methods.[5,
6, 7, 8, 9, 10] Important information also was gained employing
terahertz spectroscopy[11, 12, 13, 14] and by submillimeter
measurements.[15, 16] A detailed review on most of these results has
been given by Bonn and Hardy.[1] The most probable resume of these
experiments can be given as follows: (i) The peak below T_(C) which is
observed in the real part of the optical conductivity σ₁, is due to two
competing temperature dependencies. With decreasing temperature the
normal-fluid density decreases, while the scattering time strongly
increases.[6, 11] (ii) At least in high-purity YBCO single crystals the
penetration depth λ depends linearly on temperature. Theoretically it
has been shown by Annett _et al._[17] that a linear temperature
dependence of the low-frequency penetration depth is a signature of a
d-wave pairing state. Later on it has been shown by Hirschfeld and
Goldenfeld[18] that a crossover temperature T^(*) exists below which
λ ∝ T², T^(*) crucially depends on the defect concentration, and this
behavior indeed has been demonstrated experimentally by Bonn _et
al._,[8] and (iii) there is no real consensus concerning the
superconducting gap Δ₀. But based on the low-temperature measurements of
the penetration depth the estimates yield
Δ₀ ≃ 2   3                                      $of temperature. The penetration depth is defined as \(\lambda = c/\omega k$,
with k being the imaginary part of the complex refraction index:
k = ln [i(σ₁ + iσ₂)/ε₀ω]^(1/2). The expression for λ gives the microwave
result λ = (μ₀ωσ₂)^(−1/2) in the limit σ₁ ≪ |σ₂| and the expression for
the skin depth in the opposite limit σ₁ ≫ |σ₂|. Below T_(C) the real
part of the conductivity reveals a strong frequency dependence. The peak
in the conductivity increases in height and is shifted to lower
temperatures for decreasing frequencies. This behavior has been
calculated in detail by Hirschfeld _et al._[20] The inset shows the
frequency dependence of temperature of the maximum conductivity, which
qualitatively resembles the theoretical results.[20] We now focus on the
low-temperature behavior of the conductivity to compare it with the
result by P. A. Lee,[4] that the residual conductivity σ₀(T → 0, ν → 0)
in a d-wave superconductor should be universal and independent of the
impurity concentration, with σ₀ = e²/(m πΔ₀). Assuming an energy gap
Δ₀ = 2.75k_(B)T_(C) and a penetration depth λ₀ = 160 nm, we estimate
σ₀ = 3 × 10³Ω⁻¹ cm⁻¹. This value is shown as a solid square in the lower
panel of Fig. 1. At first sight our experimental results are not
compatible with Lee’s result.[4] However, it has been shown by
Hirschfeld _et al._[20] that in the Born limit this residual
conductivity is effectively unobservable except at exponentially small
temperatures. Instead, the conductivity tends to a higher value,
determined by the concentration of impurities. σ₁(ω, T) as observed
experimentally can be explained if the theoretical predictions
significantly different to the unitary limit[20] are used.

The upper panel of Fig. 1 shows the temperature dependence of the
penetration depth. The penetration depths reveal a sharp drop at T_(C)
for all frequencies and extrapolates towards values of 160 nm at the
lowest temperatures. The low-temperature behavior of the penetration
depth is shown in the inset of the upper panel of Fig. 1. According to
the recent theoretical models[20] a linear temperature dependence of the
penetration depth of a d-wave superconductor can only be expected at
zero frequencies. With increasing microwave frequency the temperature
dependence of the penetration depth strongly becomes reduced,[20] a
behavior which indeed is observed.

Figure 2 shows the real part of the conductivity as a function of
frequency for two temperatures. To demonstrate the sample-independence
of the conductivity we took single crystal[21] and thin film data[22]
for comparison. The IR data are plotted on absolute scale without any
arbitrary shifts. The data clearly reveal a Drude-like behavior at 90 K
with a relaxation rate Γ = (2 π τ)⁻¹ of the order of 3 THz. The data
also provide clear experimental evidence that a narrow conductivity peak
develops at the lowest temperatures (T<T_(C)/10). The dashed lines
represents a Drude fit to the data, using a $\sigma_{\rm dc}$ value that
will be explained later. The solid lines are mere interpolations between
the submillimeter and the FIR results. The discrepancies between the
dashed and the solid lines at T = 6 K may be due to the fact that the
very low-frequency FIR spectra are ill-defined only. In a range from 300
GHz to 30 THz a strong suppression of the conductivity becomes apparent
revealing a gablike feature around approximately 10 THz. This
characteristic frequency ν^(*) ≈ 10 THz most probably corresponds to a
crossover of the elastic and inelastic scattering rates.[23] The
conductivity in the superconducting phase reveals a peak close to 23 THz
 ≈ 1100 K. If we assign this value to 4 Δ₀,[23] where Δ₀ is the maximum
gap value, we conclude that 2 Δ₀ ≈ 6.4kT_(C).

The most relevant results are shown in Fig. 3. Here we show the real
(lower panel) and imaginary part (upper panel) of the conductivity as a
function of frequency for different temperatures. Following suggestions
of Jiang _et al._[24] and Schachinger _et al._[25] we have plotted the
product σ₂ ⋅ ν. The reason to present data in this way is that the
square of the penetration depth is directly related to this quantity
through

Figure 1: Upper panel: Temperature dependence of the penetration depth.
The inset shows the low-temperature behavior on a linear scale. The
closed months give a zero frequency extrapolation from the analysis of
the complex conductivity (see text). Lower panel: Temperature dependence
of the real part of conductivity at the same frequencies as in the upper
panel. The closed square at T = 0 K indicates the universal conductivity
value (Ref. 4). The inset shows the temperature dependence of the
conductivity peak maximums (rhombs) compared to the theoretical curve
(solid line) (Ref. 20).

Figure 2: Frequency dependence of the real part of conductivity at
temperatures just above T_(C) (90 K, triangles) and far below T_(C) (6
K, circles) compared to the infrared data. The IR data (ν > 2 THz) are
taken from Ref. 21 (closed symbols) and Ref. 22 (open symbols). Solid
lines are drawn to guide the eye. Dashed lines represent a Drude fit
(see text).

λ⁻²(0) − lim_(ν → 0)(σ₂ν). With the decreasing temperature a
well-defined minimum around ν ∼ 0 is observed in σ₂ ⋅ ν (upper part of
Fig. 3) and a Drude-like peak centered at zero frequency develops in the
superconducting state in σ₁ (lower part of Fig. 3). This feature
directly reflects the electromagnetic response of the quasiparticles,
which do not contribute to the superconducting condensate. Analyzing the
amplitude and the width of this process we can extract the information
about the spectral weight and the scattering rate of the quasiparticles.
The real and the imaginary part of the conductivity were fitted
simultaneously assuming a Drude-like response of the quasiparticles in
the superconducting state with a temperature-dependent, but
frequency-independent scattering rate. The electromagnetic properties of
the superconducting condensate were also taken into account adding the
appropriate $\sigma_{s}^{\rm{*}}$ term to the Drude conductivity. The
solid lines in Fig. 3 were fitted using

$$\sigma_{1}\!+\!i\sigma_{2} = \sigma_{D}^{\rm{*}}\!+\!\sigma_{s}^{\rm{*}}\!=\!\frac{n_{n}e^{2}} {m}(\tau^{-1}\!-\!i\omega)^{-1}$$
(1)
$$+\frac{n_{s}e^{2}}{m}[\pi\delta(0)/2\!+\!i/\omega],$$

where the spectral weights of the normal and the superconducting
components n_(n) , n_(s) , and the scattering rate τ⁻¹ were treated as
adjustable parameters. Only for temperatures T≥ 200 K n_(s) and n_(s)
were kept constant due to the low accuracy of σ₂(ν). The agreement
between model calculations and experimental results is quite
satisfactory.

The insert in Fig. 3 demonstrates the effect of varying the effective
scattering cross section within a weak-coupling calculation with finite
scattering rate assuming d-wave pairing.[26] The line corresponding to
the unitary limit shows no frequency dependence in the frequency range
below 1 THz and at T = 6 K. Already the scattering cross section σ = 0.7
has a significant frequency dependence at this temperature and can
qualitatively explain the observed conductivity spectra.

Figure 4 shows the temperature dependence of the fit parameters obtained
using Eq. (1). The scattering rate collapses from a value close to 3 THz
at T_(C) to 0.2 GHz at 40 K and then remains almost constant for further
decreasing temperatures. Most probably and in accord with many other
experimental findings, a gap develops in the spin-fluctuation spectrum
at the superconducting phase transition temperature making the
quasiparticles long-lived below T_(C). From the upper panel of Fig. 4 we
can conclude that for temperatures T  > 40 K the scattering rates are
determined mainly by inelastic scattering processes from spin
fluctuations. Below 40 K elastic impurity scattering processes dominate.

The lower part of Fig. 4 shows the superconducting and ’normal’
conducting spectral weights extracted from the fits. Even for
T  < T_(C)/10, the quasiparticle spectral weight remains at a value of
1/4 as compared to the normal state. This fact agrees well with
theoretical estimations,[18, 23] which predict a finite concentration of
the nonpaired quasiparticles in the presence of impurities even at
T = 0. In addition, we show the temperature dependence of the
n_(s) + n_(n). It is a remarkable and important result that this value
remains almost constant. Since the normal-state conductivity spectrum is
much broader than the simple Drude process, the analysis based on Eq.
(1) extracts only the spectral weight of the single Drude at zero
frequency. This spectral weight is given by the area under the T = 90 K
Drude curve in Fig. 2. Thus,

Figure 4: Temperature dependence of the quasiparticle scattering rate
Γ = (2 π τ)⁻¹ (upper panel) and spectral weight (lower panel) as
extracted from the fits to the data of Fig. 3. The right-hand side of
the upper panel gives the mean free path, calculated as l = v_(F) ⋅ τ,
with v_(F) = 1100 km/s being the Fermi velocity (Ref. 26). The inset
shows the frequency dependence of the scattering rate. The data in the
lower panel give the spectral weight of the normal (n) and the
superconducting (s) contributions and the sum of both components
(n + s).

Figure 3: Frequency dependence of the complex conductivity of
YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) film at different temperatures. Upper panel: the
product σ₂ ⋅ ν; lower panel: σ₁ . The lines are fits according to Eq.
(1). The insert demonstrates the effect of varying the effective
scattering cross section σ within a d-wave model of superconductivity
(Ref. 26). The curves are calculated assuming Δ(0) = 3.8 THz, T_(C) = 90
K, and σ = 1 (unitary limit, solid line), σ = 0.7 (dashed) and σ = 0
(Born limit, dotted).

only the spectral weight under this curve is transferred into the
superconducting condensate.

The fits to the experimental results, shown in Fig. 3, allow the
determination of the zero frequency penetration depth λ₀. The resulting
low-frequency values are plotted in the inset of the upper panel of
Fig. 1. The only three points that have been measured reveal a linear
dependence of the penetration depth with a slope dλ/dT ≈ 3 A/K.

Finally, assuming that the quasiparticle relaxation time can be
frequency dependent, we tried to extract τ(T, ν) from our data. In order
not to mix the effects of the normal and the superconducting component,
the term σ_(s)^(*) describing the superconducting condensate has been
subtracted from the experimental conductivity. Now the frequency
dependence of the scattering rate follows from
[24]τ⁻¹(ω) = ωσ₁^(*)/σ₂^(*), where the notation σ^(n) indicates the
normal conducting fraction. The frequency dependence of τ is shown as
inset in Fig. 4 and reveals that a frequency-independent scattering rate
is a good approximation in the frequency range of the present
experiment.

## Conclusions

In conclusion, we have measured the real and imaginary parts of
conductivity of partly untwinned YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) films in the frequency
range 0.1<_p_<1 THz. The analysis of the experimental spectra allows the
determination of spectral weight and scattering rates of the
quasiparticles directly. From the temperature dependence of the
conductivity we conclude that the impurity scattering cannot be
described within the unitary limit. The penetration depth, which is
expected to depend linearly on temperature in the zero-frequency limit
in a _d_-wave superconductor, is strongly suppressed at submillimeter
frequencies.

## Acknowledgments

We acknowledge stimulating discussions with A. Kampf, P. J. Hirschfeld,
D. van der Marel, and D. Rainer. This work was supported by the BMBF via
Contract No. 13N6917/0–Elektronische Korrelationen und Magnetismus.

## References

* [1] D. A. Bonn and W. N. Hardy, in _Physical Properties of High
Temperature Superconductors V_, edited by D. M. Ginsberg (World
Scientific, Singapore, 1996), p. 7. * [2] D. B. Tanner and T. Timusk, in
_Physical Properties of High Temperature Superconductors III_, edited by
D. M. Ginsberg (World Scientific, Singapore, 1992), p. 363. * [3] S.
Tajima, Supercond. Rev. **2**, 125 (1997). * [4] P. A. Lee, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **71**, 1887 (1993). * [5] K. Holczer, L. Forro, L. Mihaly, and G.
Gruner, Phys. Rev. Lett. **67**, 152 (1991). * [6] D. A. Bonn, P.
Dosanjh, R. Liang, and W. N. Hardy, Phys. Rev. Lett. **68**, 2390
(1992). * [7] F. Gao, J. W. Kruse, C. E. Platt, M. Feng, and M. V.
Klein, Appl. Phys. Lett. **63**, 2274 (1993). * [8] D. A. Bonn, S.
Kamal, K. Zhang, R. Liang, D. J. Baar, E. Klein, and W. N. Hardy, Phys.
Rev. B **50**, 4051 (1994). * [9] H. Srikanth, B. A. Willemsen, T.
Jakobs, S. Sridhar, A. Erb, E. Walker, and R. Flukiger, Phys. Rev. B
**55**, 14 733 (1997). * [10] S. Hensen, G. Muller, C. T. Rieck, and K.
Scharnberg, Phys. Rev. B **56**, 6237 (1997). * [11] M. C. Nuss, P. M.
Mankiewich, M. L. O’Malley, E. H. Westerwick, and P. B. Littlewood,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **66**, 3305 (1991). * [12] I. Francois, C. Jaekel, G.
Kyas, D. Dierickx, O. Van der Biest, R. M. Heeres, V. V. Moshchalkov, Y.
Bruynseraede, H. G. Roskos, G. Borghs, and H. Kurz, Phys. Rev. B **53**,
12 502 (1996). * [13] A. Frenkel, F. Gao, Y. Liu, J. F. Whitaker, C.
Uher, S. Y. Hou, and J. M. Phillips, Phys. Rev. B **54**, 1355 (1996). *
[14] Ch. Ludwig, Q. Jiang, J. Kuhl, and J. Zegenhagen, Physica C
**269**, 249 (1996). * [15] U. Dahne, T. Amrein, and Y. Goncharov,
Physica C **235-240**, 2066 (1994); U. Dahne Y. Goncharov, N. Klein, N.
Tellmann, G. Kozlov, and K. Urban, J. Supercond. **8**, 129 (1995). *
[16] L. A. de Vaulchier, J. P. Vieren, Y. Guldner, N. Bontemps, R.
Combescot, Y. Lemaitre, and J. C. Mage, Europhys. Lett. **33**, 153
(1996); S. Djordjevic, L. A. de Vaulchier, N. Bontemps, P. Vieren, Y.
Guldner, S. Moffat, J. Preston, X. Castel, M. Guilloux-Viry, and A.
Perrin, Eur. Phys. J. B **5**, 847 (1998). * [17] J. Annett, N.
Goldenfeld, and S. R. Renn, Phys. Rev. B **43**, 2778 (1991). * [18] P.
J. Hirschfeld and N. Goldenfeld, Phys. Rev. B **48**, 4219 (1993). *
[19] A. A. Volkov, Yu. G. Goncharov, G. V. Kozlov, S. P. Lebedev, and A.
M. Prochorov, Infrared Phys. **25**, 369 (1985). * [20] P. J.
Hirschfeld, W. O. Putikka, and D. J. Scalapino, Phys. Rev. B **50**, 10
250 (1994); P. J. Hirschfeld, W. O. Putikka, and D. J. Scalapino, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **71**, 3705 (1993). * [21] D. N. Basov, R. Liang, B.
Dabrowski, D. A. Bonn, W. N. Hardy, and T. Timusk, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**77**, 4090 (1996). * [22] J. Schutzmann, W. Ose, J. Keller, K. F.
Renk, B. Roas, L. Schultz, and G. Saemann-Ischenko, Europhys. Lett.
**8**, 679 (1989). * [23] S. M. Quinlan, P. J. Hirschfeld, and D. J.
Scalapino, Phys. Rev. B **53**, 8575 (1996). * [24] C. Jiang, E.
Schachinger, J. P. Carbotte, D. Basov, and D. Timusk, Phys. Rev. B
**54**, 1264 (1996). * [25] E. Schachinger, J. P. Carbotte, and F.
Marsiglio, Phys. Rev. B **56**, 2738 (1997). * [26] M. J. Graf, M.
Palumbo, and D. Rainer, Phys. Rev. B **52**, 10 588 (1995).
