# Magnetic anisotropy and weak ferromagnetism of single-crystal TbNi2B2C

B. K. Cho, P. C. Canfield, and D. C. Johnston

Ames Laboratory and Department of Physics and Astronomy, Iowa State
University, Ames, Iowa 50011

13 September 1995

###### Abstract

The anisotropic magnetization _M_(_T_) of single-crystal TbNi2B2C is
reported as a function of applied magnetic field (**H**) for
temperatures T from 2 to 300 K and with **H** parallel and perpendicular
to the c axis (**H**[**c** and **H**L**_c_). In low field (_H_ <= 100 G)
TbNi2B2C orders antiferromagnetically at Neel temperature T_(N) = (14.9
+- 0.1) K. Weak ferromagnetic (WF) behavior is found for T <= 8 K and H
<= 10 kG. Both phase transitions are also detected in zero-field
in-plane resistivity r_(b)(_T_) measurements. In contrast, previous
low-field _M_(_T_,_H_) data showed antiferromagnetic ground states for
(Gd,DyHo,Er,Tm)Ni2B2C crystals. The origin of the WF ordering, given the
point symmetry (4/_mmm_) of the Tb + 3 ions, is addressed together with
the observed in-plane anisotropy in the high-field magnetization.
Possible reasons for the absence of superconductivity above 2 K in
TbNi2B2C are also discussed. Finally, a partial _H_-_T_ magnetic phase
diagram of TbNi2B2C is presented for **H**[[110] and aspects of the
similar _H_-_T_ diagram for **H**[[100] are discussed.

## Introduction

The _R_Ni2B2C series of compounds exhibits a wide variety of
low-temperature (_T_) ground states ranging from superconductivity (_R_
= Lu, Sc, Y, Th), to superconductivity coexisting with magnetic order
(_R_ = Tm, Er, Ho, and Dy), to magnetic order without superconductivity
(_R_ = Gd).1-7 These compounds crystallize in a layered crystal
structure, which consists of the body-centered-tetragonal (bct) TbCr2Si2
structure with additional carbon atoms in each R layer.8 Theoretically
these compounds are expected to show electronically three-dimensional
behavior and conventional BCS-type superconductivity.9 Experimentally
the R = Tm, Er, Ho compounds undergo antiferromagnetic (AF) ordering in
the superconducting state and display an interplay between the magnetic
ordering and the superconductivity in resistivity measurements of
polycrystalline samples.2 Moreover, single crystals of each compound
containing magnetic R atoms possess highly anisotropic normal-state
magnetizations and also anisotropic and suppressed superconducting state
properties, indicating the existence of significant interactions between
the local magnetic moments and the superconducting electrons.4-6 More
recently the discovery of superconductivity at T_(m) 6 K in
single-crystal and polycrystalline DyNi2B2C below the AF ordering
temperature T_(N) 10.3 K provided a rare example of superconductivity
evolving out of an AF ground state.7 GdNi2B2C, on the other hand, does
not become superconducting for T > 2 K.2,10 even though it orders
antiferromagnetically below 20 K.10 Thus, with GdNi2B2C and DyNi2B2C as
neighboring compounds, it is interesting to study the electronic and
magnetic properties of single-crystal TbNi2B2C, which does not show any
indication of superconductivity above 2 K in polycrystalline form.2

In this report, we present electronic transport and static magnetization
(_M_) data of single-crystal TbNi2B2C. It is found that in addition to
similarities with the R = Dy, Tm, Er, and Ho compounds, a new feature, a
weak ferromagnetic (WF) component, develops at T 9 K, below T_(N) = 14.9
K, and at low ( <= 10 kG) magnetic fields H. We will discuss the
magnetic anisotropy in the normal state in terms of crystalline
electric-field (CEF) effects and the possible origin of WF together with
the in-plane magnetization anisotropy of TbNi2B2C. We will also discuss
possible reasons for the lack of superconductivity in TbNi2B2C based on
the measured data.

## Experimental details

Crystals of TbNi2B2C were grown by the Ames Lab Ni2B flux method.5,11
This method yields plates of TbNi2B2C with masses up to 300 mg with the
crystallographic _c_-axis perpendicular to the plate surface. Powder
x-ray-diffraction patterns of crushed single crystals show the crystals
to be single phase. The three crystallographic axes ([100], [110], and
[001]) were determined by Laue x-ray diffraction for the crystal which
was used for magnetization measurements. _M_(_H_,_T_) data were measured
using a Quantum Design superconducting quantum interference device
(SQUID) magnetometer. A Linear Research Inc. LR400 four-wire ac
resistance bridge was used in conjunction with the T and H environmental
control of the SQUID magnetometer to measure in-plane four-probe
resistivity as a function of temperature.

## Results

Figure 1(a) shows _M_(_T_)/_H_ of single-crystal TbNi2B2C for
**H**[[001] (_M_001) and **H**[[100] (_M_100) with H = 10 kG. Figure
1(b) shows inverse _M_(_T_)/_H_ data together with a calculated powder
averaged curve [(2M₁₀₀ + M₀₀₁)/3H]⁻¹. The magnetization data are highly
anisotropic, with a larger magnetization for **H**[[100] than for
**H**][[001]. The inverse _M_(_T_)/_H_ data for both field orientations
in Fig. 1(b) show nearly linear behaviors above  100 K and deviate from
the linear behaviors below 100 K for both directions of **H**. The
inverse _M_(_T_)/_H_ of the powder average reveals a linear behavior for
the whole temperature range above 15 K, concealing (averaging) the
deviations observed for **H**[**c** and **H**L** below  100 K. Similar
effects have already been seen in other _R_Ni₂B₂C (_R_ = Tm, Er, and Ho)
single crystals.4-6 The data above 100 K are fit to the Curie-Weiss law
_M_/_H_ = _C_/(_T_ - _th_), where the Curie constant C = _N_m_ T_(N)
value, defined as the temperature of maximum d(MT)/HdT, decreases from
14.95 K at H = 1 kG to 10.5 K at 20 kG, which is similar to T_(N)(H) of
single-crystal (Ho, Er)Ni2B2C.[5, 6] Above 25 kG, the AF ordering
disappears and the magnetization saturates below 5 K to between
8.2_m__B_ and 8.7_m__B_, depending on the applied field. These data
indicate that a field-induced magnetic phase transition occurs for 20 kG
≤_H_ ≤25 kG below 10 K. The phase transition observed in magnetization
data in Fig. 1 and in the transport measurement in Fig. 2 near T = 8 K
is observed for H = 1 kG as an increase of magnetization below 9 K, with
M ≈ 0.4_m__B_ at 2 K, indicating that a weak ferromagnetic (WF)
component may develop out of the antiferromagnetic state for small
applied magnetic fields. Above 10 kG, the feature near 8 K seems not to
exist anymore indicating the possibility of a second magnetic phase
transition.

In order to further understand the low-temperature and low-field region,
we obtained _M_(_T_) data with H = 100 G and _M_(_H_) data at T = 2 K
which are plotted in Fig. 4 and Fig. 5, respectively. In Fig. 4, in
addition to the AF transition at _T__N_^(∞)15 K, the WF component is
seen to develop below ≈ 9 K and saturates below ≈ 4 K. The
zero-field-cooled (ZFC) magnetization shows a lower saturation value at
2 K (0.22 m_(B)) and higher onset temperature (≈ 9 K) of the weak
ferromagnetism than the field-cooling (FC) magnetization (0.25_m__B_ and
≈ 8 K, respectively). Figure 5 shows a magnetic isotherm at 2 K. Whereas
there is a hysteresis between the virgin curve 1 and the magnetization
for field ramping down (curve 2), no noticeable hysteresis is found in
the subsequent field sweeps indicated with arrows and numbers in Fig. 5.
Extrapolating the higher field (500-1000 G) linear regions to zero field
gives a saturated WF moment of 0.5_m__B_.

To investigate the low-temperature magnetization anisotropy of the
crystal, field-dependent magnetization measurements were performed at 2
K with the field applied in three different crystallographic directions,
i.e., **H**[100], [110], and [001], and the results are plotted in Fig.
6. There are large anisotropies between all three orientations, i.e.,
not only between **H**[100] and **H**[001] but also within the _ab_
plane, between **H**[100] and **H**[110]. M001 is smaller than

Figure 4: Magnetization M versus temperature for a TbNi2B2C crystal for
applied magnetic field H = 100 G with **H**[100]. ZFC (full circles):
data measured on warming after zero-field cooled, FC (open circles):
data measured on cooling after field applied. The Néel temperature T_(N)
= 14.8 K is indicated.

Figure 5: Magnetization M versus applied magnetic field H for a TbNi2B2C
crystal for **H**[100] at T = 2 K. The data are taken with the field
history indicated with numbers and arrows, with number 1 being the
virgin, zero-field-cooled, curve.

Figure 3: Magnetization M versus temperature for a TbNi2B2C crystal for
various magnetic fields H with **H**[100].

both M100 and M110 and shows no field-induced magnetic transition below
H = 50 kG. It should be noted that the weak ferromagnetic moment, seen
for both **H**[[100]] and **H**[[110]], does not appear for
**H**[[001]]. Within the basal plane, the anisotropy between M100 and
M110 is most pronounced for H above the first metamagnetic transition at
 11 kG. Whereas two metamagnetic transitions are found for **H**[[110]]
near H = 16.5 and 23 kG, there are three possible transitions evident
for **H**[[100]]. The significant hysteresis found for **H**[[100]] upon
increasing and decreasing H, as shown by the arrows in Fig. 6, makes it
difficult to resolve the nature or number of magnetic phases for H
between 12 and 22 kG. The in-plane anisotropy of the saturated magnetic
moment for TbNi2B2C is qualitatively similar to that found for HoNi2B2C,
which is interpreted in terms of anisotropy due to CEF interaction,[12]
although in the case of HoNi2B2C M110>_M_100 at 50 kG and 2 K. In the
highest field (50 kG), the saturated paramagnetic moment of  6.6_m_B for
**H**[[110]] is significantly lower than the value of  9.5_m_B for
**H**[[100]]. It should be noted that the M100 9.5_m_B at 2 K and 50 kG
is significantly larger than the saturation moment of 9.0_m_B for
isolated Tb +3. We speculate that the value of M100 9.5_m_B (larger by
5.5

Figure 7 shows field-induced magnetic transitions below H = 50 kG with
**H**[[110]] at four different temperatures. At 2 K, there are two phase
transitions near H = 16.5 and 23 kG in addition to the weak
ferromagnetic component in the low-field region as seen in Fig. 5. Thus,
a metamagnetic state exists between 16.5 and 23 kG and a saturated
paramagnetic state exists at higher fields. At H = 50 kG the saturated
magnetic moment of Tb +3 is 6.6_m_B, which is 73

## Discussion

Single crystals of _R_Ni2B2C (_R_ = Dy, Ho, Er, and Tm) show large
anisotropy in the normal-state magnetization that is attributed to
crystalline electric-field (CEF) effects.[4-7] In a similar manner the
magnetic anisotropy in TbNi2B2C found here is also attributed to CEF
effects. For the tetragonal point symmetry (4/_mmm_) of an R ion in the
_R_Ni2B2C compounds, the CEF Hamiltonian can be written as[42]

$${\cal H}_{\rm CEF} = B_{2}^{0}O_{2}^{0} + B_{4}^{0}O_{4}^{0} + B_{4}^{4}O_{4}^{4} + B_{6}^{0}O_{6}^{0} + B_{6}^{4}O_{6}^{4},$$

Figure 6: Magnetization M versus applied magnetic field for a TbNi2B2C
crystal at T = 2 K for **H**[[100], **H**[[110], and **H**][[001].

Figure 7: Magnetization M versus applied magnetic field for a TbNi2B2C
crystal for **H**[[110] at T = (a) 2 K, (b) 5 K, (c) 10 and 300 K.

where the O_(n)^(m) are the Stevens equivalent operators and the B₂^(m)
are the Stevens coefficients. The B₂⁰O₂⁰ term in $\mathcal{H}_{\rm CEF}$
is dominant in many cases and the field direction in which the
susceptibility is largest is generally determined by the sign of B₂⁰:
_a_B₂⁰>0 yields M_(ab)>M_(c). Wang[15] and Boutron[16] showed that only
the O₂⁰ term among the terms in the CEF Hamiltonian contributes to the
high-T Weiss temperatures in single crystals with R in tetragonal point
symmetry. From the expansion of the susceptibility χ(T) as a power
series in 1/T, the value of B₂⁰ can be calculated from the difference
between θ_(z) and θ_(x, y) using the relation[16]

$$B_{2}^{0} = \frac{10}{3(2J-1)(2J+3)}(\theta_{x,y}-\theta_{z}),$$

where J is the angular momentum of the isolated ion, z is along the c
axis, and x, y are, respectively, along the a and b axes of the
tetragonal structure. Equation (2) is derived based on the assumption of
uncoupled ions, i.e., no exchange interaction between rare-earth ions.
By using the values of θ_(z) and θ_(x, y) found above from Fig. 1(b),
B₂⁰ is estimated to be (1.54 ± 0.04) K, the sign of which is consistent
with the observed sign of the magnetization anisotropy. The positive
sign of B₂⁰ is also consistent with the sign of B₂⁰ for other RNi₂B₂C
compounds[4, 5, 12] and the theoretical expectation of the point-charge
model of CEF.

In the point-charge model, B₂⁰ can be written as

B₂⁰ = ⟨r²⟩A₂⁰α_(J),

where ⟨r²⟩ is the mean-square radius of the 4f electrons, A₂⁰ represents
the electrostatic effects from the static charges of the lattice of
neighboring ions, and α_(J) is the Stevens multiplicative factor.
Assuming that A₂⁰ has a sign independent of particular rare-earth
element among an isostructural series of compounds, and since the radial
integral is positive by definition, the sign of B₂⁰ depends only on the
sign of α_(J), which is negative for Tb ⁺³[17]. This gives nice
agreement with the observed sign of B₂⁰ of TbNi₂B₂C, assuming A₂⁰ is
negative, as shown in Table 1. The values of ⟨r²⟩ normalized to the
value of ⟨r²⟩ for Ho ⁺³ (Ref. [18]), and the α_(J) values, normalized to
the α_(J) for Ho ⁺³, are also listed. Assuming that A₂⁰ is constant
within the RNi₂B₂C series, the theoretical and experimental estimations
of B₂⁰, both normalized to the Ho ⁺³ values, are also presented for
comparison. Within the experimental error the point-charge CEF model
predicts the sign of B₂⁰ correctly, according to the easy axis as
observed in magnetization[4, 5, 6, 7] and neutron-diffraction[19, 20,
21, 22, 23, 24] measurements. However, the normalized experimental
magnitudes of B₂⁰ do not seem to be in such good agreement with the
theoretical predictions. This discrepancy may come from the assumptions
that A₂⁰ is constant through the RNi₂B₂C series and that the
point-charge model applies, or may be due to the isolated ion assumption
we have made in using Eq. (2).

For 8 K ≪T≪ 14.9 K, TbNi₂B₂C is ordered antiferromagnetically in low
applied magnetic field. The magnetization data shown in Fig. 1 are
similar to those for the RNi₂B₂C (R = Er, Ho, Dy) (Refs. [5] and [7])
compounds below their magnetic ordering temperatures. However, as has
been found in neutron-diffraction studies,[19, 20, 21, 22, 23] the R =
Er, Ho, and Dy compounds each have different magnetic structures at low
temperatures. Other than our inference that the ordered moment will be
oriented near to or in the basal plane of the tetragonal structure, the
details of the magnetic structure of TbNi₂B₂C must await the results of
neutron-diffraction or magnetic x-ray-diffraction studies. The data
shown in Figs. 3-5 indicate the existence of magnetic order with a weak
ferromagnetic (WF) component below T≈ 8 K at low fields. [See noted
added.] The weak ferromagnetism seems to be an intrinsic feature of the
TbNi₂B₂C ground state. The anisotropy of the WF state shown in Fig. 6
rules out the possibility of the WF coming from a polycrystalline
impurity phase, and the feature being seen in both the magnetization and
the electrical resistivity data near 8 K is consistent with a bulk WF
transition. This weak ferromagnetism in low field is, so far, peculiar
to TbNi₂B₂C among the RNi₂B₂C (R = Gd-Tm) series and makes this compound
of special interest.

Dzialoshinskii[25] showed that a WF state is possible in the space group
D_(4h)¹⁴ (P4₂/mmn) of NiF₂, where the Ni has the same point symmetry
that Tb ⁺³ has in TbNi₂B₂C. By minimizing the thermodynamic potential
consistent with the crystal symmetry, he suggests five possible
antiferromagnetic states, out of which four states can show a canted
magnetic moment. Two of these four states have the AF components of the
ordered moments ⊥_(c), and two ∥**c**. In the former case, the canted
moment can be either ∥[100] or ∥[110]. From Fig. 1, the Tb ⁺³ moments
have an easy (_ab_) plane. Thus, two different canted AF magnetic states
can be stabilized in TbNi₂B₂C, corresponding to the AF components of the
staggered moments lying along [100] or along [110]. It should be

c c c c c c c & & & & & Easy axis & Easy axis
& ⟨r²⟩ & α_(J) & B₂⁰ (CEF) & B₂⁰ (Exp) & from M(H, T) & from neut. diff.
Tb ⁺³ & 1.08 & −4.55 & 4.914 & 3.9 ± 0.1 & **H⊥c** &
Dy ⁺³ & 1.04 & −2.86 & 2.97 & 3.6 ± 0.4 (Ref. [24]) & **H⊥c** (Ref. [7])
& **H⊥c** (Ref. [19])
Ho ⁺³ & 1 & −1 & 1 & 1 (Ref. [13]) & **H⊥c** (Ref. [6]) & **H⊥c** (Refs.
[20, 21])
Er ⁺³ & 0.95 & 1.14 & −1.08 & −0.05 ± 0.04 (Ref. [5]) & **H⊥c** &
_T<_150 K & **H⊥c** (Refs. [22, 23])
& & & & & & **H∥c** (Ref. [5]) &
Tm ⁺³ & 0.91 & 4.5 & −4.1 & −2.9 ± 0.5 (Ref. [4]) & **H∥c** (Ref. [4]) &
**H∥c** (Ref. [24])

Table 1: Values of the crystalline electric-field parameters B₂⁰, and
the parameters ⟨r²⟩ (Ref. [17]) and α_(J) (Ref. [16]). All values are
normalized to the values for Ho⁺³. The easy axes from magnetization
M(H, T) and neutron-diffraction measurements are also listed.

noted that the easy magnetization axis within the basal plane is along
[100] in TbNi₁B₂C (see Fig. 6) rather than [110] as in (Ho,Dy)Ni₂B₂C
[12, 26] which show no WF transition. We therefore speculate that the
easy magnetization direction of [100] in TbNi₁B₂C may have a close
relation with the occurrence of the WF state. Moriya [27, 28] developed
the microscopic theory of weak ferromagnetism based on Dzialoshinskii’s
phenomenological model. He showed that the CEF effects together with
spin-orbit coupling lead to a WF moment in NiF₂ (T_(N)∼ 7.3 K), [27] and
that the antisymmetric anisotropic superexchange interaction (the
so-called Dzialoshinskii-Moriya interaction) appears to be the origin of
weak ferromagnetism in α-Fe₂O₃ (T_(N)≈ 950 K). [28] We speculate that
the former mechanism is likely to be responsible for the observed weak
ferromagnetism in TbNi₂B₂C because the later mechanism is likely to be
more important for antiferromagnetic materials with high Neel
temperature, for then the exchange interaction is large. [28]

Recently the onset of superconductivity in single-crystal DyNi₂B₂C was
found [7] (T_(c) = 6.2 K) below the long-range AF ordering temperature
(T_(N)= 10.3 K). Given that T_(N)>T_(c) in DyNi₂B₂C, the possibility of
superconductivity in TbNi₂B₂C (T_(N)= 14.9 K) should be examined. In
fact, if one extrapolates the line for T_(c) (DG) between the Lu and Dy
members to the DG factor of Tb⁺³, one obtains the predicted T_(c)≈ 1.2 K
for TbNi₂B₂C (which is below the low-temperature limit of 2 K of the
measurements of TbNi₂B₂C up to now). On the other hand, it is worthwhile
to notice that the saturated magnetization at high magnetic field and
low temperature is higher than the theoretical maximum magnetization
(see Fig. 6) whereas the single crystal (Dy,Ho,Er)Ni₂B₂C shows a
saturated magnetization close to or slightly lower than the theoretical
maximum magnetization. [5, 12, 26] This may be due to different sign of
I from that found for (Er,Ho,Dy)Ni₂B₂C, which may be relevant to
determining T_(c). In addition, the WF moments developing below ≈ 8 K at
zero magnetic field will be detrimental to superconductivity. The
calculated 4 πM≈ 900 G from the WF moments is comparable with the
thermodynamic critical fields (H_(c)) of the superconducting RNi₂B₂C
compounds. For example, the H_(c) of TNi₂B₂C (Ref. [29]) single crystal
was shown to be near 2.5 kG at 2K and the H_(c) of ErNi₂B₂C (Ref. [5])
single crystal can be estimated to be near 1.2 kG from the relation
H_(c) = H_(c2)$\sqrt{2}$κ here H_(c2) is the upper critical field and κ
is the Ginzburg-Landau parameter.

It is worthwhile to mention here that while single-crystal ErNi₂B₂C
exhibits field-induced magnetic transitions at T = 2 K similar to the
two transitions in TbNi₂B₂C near H = 16.5 and 22 kG in Fig. 7, two
additional weak field-induced transitions at T = 2 K for H≈ 1 and 7 kG
of unknown origin were reported in our previous paper (Ref. [5]). With
the present clear evidence of a WF state in TbNi₂B₂C, we suspect that
the transition near H≈ 1 kG in ErNi₂B₂C may be related to a WF state. In
that case the WF magnetization adds to, and is masked by, that of the
superconducting diamagnetism, so that it is difficult to identify the WF
state from magnetization measurements. Thus it will be of great interest
to further investigate the coexistence of a possible WF state with
superconductivity in ErNi₂B₂C.

Based upon M(T) data as in Fig. 3 and M(H) isotherms such as in Figs. 6
and 7, the H-T magnetic phase diagram of TbNi₁B₂C was studied and the
results for H∥[110] are plotted in Fig. 8. The squares are the magnetic
transition fields defined as the fields of maximum slope of M versus H
isotherm data. The data similarly derived from M vs T measurements at
fixed H (circles) agree well with the data from the M vs H isotherms in
the overlapping region. In zero field, the T_(N) from ρ_(ab) vs T in
Fig. 2 is also plotted as a triangle. The upper phase boundary (which
starts at T_(N)= 14.9 K in low field and saturates at 24 kG for
temperatures below 5 K) represents the boundary between paramagnetism
(higher temperature and fields) and magnetic order (lower temperatures
and fields). The inner phase boundary divides the weakly ferromagnetic
state (the lowest temperature and field state) from an unknown type of
magnetically ordered state labeled "intermediate ordered state." This
intermediate region of the phase digram may contain more than one type
of magnetic order. Temperature and field-dependent neutron diffraction
will help refine our understanding of this region.

In addition to the H-T phase digram shown in Fig. 8 for H∥[110], we have
some qualitative understanding of the features of the H-T phase diagram
for H∥[100]. For H∥[100] the outer phase boundary is identical with that
for H∥[110], to within our precision. The inner phase boundary is more
difficult to determine due to the hysteresis in M(H) seen in Fig. 6. If
we focus on the nonhysteretic features, the lower phase boundary that
delineates the WF region saturates at a lower field (H≈ 12 kG instead of
H≈ 16 kG for H∥[110]). On the other hand, there may be an extra phase
boundary between H≈ 12 and H≈ 24 kG. Due to the

Figure 8: Magnetic field versus temperature magnetic phase diagram for a
TbNi₂B₂C crystal. ▫: data taken from M vs H isotherms for H∥[110], ▫:
data taken from M vs T measurements for H∥[110], and △: data taken from
ρ_(ab) vs T. Abbreviations: AF (antiferromagnetic); WF (weakly
ferromagnetic). The nature of the “intermediate ordered state” is not
known.

hysteresis in the _M_(_H_) isotherms, details associated with this
intermediate _H_-_T_ region will require further measurements.

## Conclusion

We have performed extensive magnetization measurements on single-crystal
TbNi₂B₂C as well as measurements of ρ_(ab)(T). We find the onset of
antiferromagnetic order at T_(N) = 14.9 K in low fields (_H_ <= 100 G),
followed by the onset of a weakly ferromagnetic phase for T <= 8 K. No
superconductivity is detected in either magnetization or resistivity
measurements for T > 2 K. This lack of superconductivity may be due to
the enhanced pairbreaking of the Tb +3 ion as predicted by de Gennes
scaling, and/or it may be associated with the weak ferromagnetism
present below 8 K.

TbNi₂B₂C has a highly anisotropic magnetization both above and below
T_(N)   14.9 K with M001 being lower than M100 and M110 at all measured
temperatures and fields. Below 14.9 K there is an anisotropy between
M100 and M110, particularly for H above the critical field(s) associated
with the transition from the low-field ordered state to the
intermediate-field ordered state. The high-field saturated moment is
larger for **H**[100]( ∼ 9.5μ_(B)) than for **H**[110]( ∼ 6.6μ_(B)).
This anisotropy is opposite to that found for HoNi₂B₂C and may be
related to the existence of the WF phase.

Note added: Temperature-dependent neutron-scattering measurements have
recently been completed on TbNi₂B₂C single crystals in zero applied
magnetic field.[30] These measurements show that the Tb sublattice is
disordered for temperatures above 15 K, ordered in an incommensurate,
modulated antiferromagnetic structure for temperatures below 15 K, and
develops a ferromagnetic component for temperatures below 8 K.

## Acknowledgments

We thank C. Detlefts for orienting the TbNi₂B₂C crystal used for the
_M_(_T_,_H_) measurements. Ames Laboratory is operated for the U.S.
Department of Energy by Iowa State University under Contract No.
W-7405-Eng-82. This work was supported by the Director for Energy
Research, Office of Basic Energy Sciences.

## References

* [1] R. Nagarajan, Chandan Mazumdar, Zakir Hossain, S. K. Dhar, K. V.
Gopalakrishnan, L. C. Gupta, C. Godart, B. D. Padalia, and R.
Vijayaraghavan, Phys. Rev. Lett. **72**, 274 (1994). * [2] R. J. Cava,
H. Takagi, H. W. Zandbergen, J. J. Krajewski, W. F. Peck, Jr., T.
Siegrist, B. Batlogg, R. B. van Dover, R. J. Felder, K. Mizuhashi, J. O.
Lee, H. Eisaki, and S. Uchida, Nature (London) **367**, 252 (1994); H.
Eisaki, H. Takagi, R. J. Cava, K. Mizuhashi, J. O. Lee, B. Batlogg, J.
J. Krajewski, W. F. Peck, Jr., and S. Uchida, Phys. Rev. B **50**, 647
(1994). * [3] H. C. Ku, C. C. Lai, Y. B. You, J. H. Shieh, and W. Y.
Guan, Phys. Rev. B **50**, 351 (1994); J. L. Sarrao, M. C. de Andrade,
J. Hermann, S.H. Han, Z. Fisk, M. B. Maple, and R. J. Cava, Physica C
**229**, 65 (1994); C. C. Lai, M. S. Lin, Y. B. You, and H. C. Ku, Phys.
Rev. B **51**, 420 (1995). * [4] B. K. Cho, Ming Xu, P. C. Canfield, L.
L. Miller, and D. C. Johnston, Phys. Rev. B **52**, 3676 (1995). * [5]
B. K. Cho, P. C. Canfield, L. L. Miller, D. C. Johnston, W. P.
Beyermann, and A. Yatskar, Phys. Rev. B **52**, 3684 (1995). * [6] P. C.
Canfield, B. K. Cho, D. C. Johnston, D. K. Finnemore, and M. F. Hundley,
Physica C **230**, 397 (1994); K. D. D. Rathnayaka, D. G. Naugle, B. K.
Cho, and P. C. Canfield, Phys. Rev. B **53**, 5688 (1996). * [7] B. K.
Cho, P. C. Canfield, and D. C. Johnston, Phys. Rev. B **52**, R3844
(1995); M. S. Lin, J. H. Shieh, Y. B. You, Y. Y. Hsu, J. W. Chen, S. H.
Lin, Y. D. Yao, Y. Y. Chen, J. C. Ho, and H. C. Ku, Physica C **249**,
403 (1995). * [8] T. Siegrist, H. W. Zandbergen, R. J. Cava, J. J.
Krajewski, and W. F. Peck, Jr., Nature (London) **367**, 254 (1994). *
[9] Warren E. Pickett and David J. Singh, Phys. Rev. Lett. **23**, 3702
(1994); L. F. Mattheiss, Phys. Rev. B **49**, 13 279 (1994). * [10] P.
C. Canfield, B. K. Cho, and K. W. Dennis, Physica B **215**, 337
(1995). * [11] M. Xu, P. C. Canfield, J. E. Ostenson, D. K. Finnemore,
B. K. Cho, Z. R. Wang, and D. C. Johnston, Physica C **227**, 321
(1994). * [12] B. K. Cho, B. N. Harmon, D. C. Johnston, and P. C.
Canfield, Phys. Rev. B **53**, 2217 (1996). * [13] E. Gratz and M. J.
Zuckermann, in _Handbook on the Physics and Chemistry of Rare Earths_,
Vol. 5, edited by K. A. Gschneider, Jr. and L. Eying (North-Holland,
Amsterdam, 1982), p. 117. * [14] John L. Prather, Natl. Bur. Stand.
(U.S.) Monograph No. 19 (U.S. G.P.O., Washington, D.C., 1961). * [15]
Yang-Li Wang, Phys. Lett. **35A**, 383 (1971). * [16] Pierre Boutron,
Phys. Rev. B **7**, 3226 (1973). * [17] M. T. Hutchings, in _Solid State
Physics: Advances in Research and Applications_, edited by Frederic
Seitz and David Turnbull (Academic, New York, 1964), Vol. 16, p. 227. *
[18] A. J. Freeman and R. E. Watson, Phys. Rev. **127**, 2085 (1962). *
[19] P. Dervenagas, J. Zarestky, C. Stassis, A. I. Goldman, P. C.
Canfield, and B. K. Cho, Physica B **212**, 1 (1995). * [20] A. I.
Goldman, C. Stassis, P. C. Canfield, J. Zarestky, P. Dervenagas, B. K.
Cho, D. C. Johnston, and B. Sternleib, Phys. Rev. B **50**, 9668
(1994). * [21] T. E. Grigereit, J. W. Lynn, Q. Huang, A. Santoro, R. J.
Cava, J. Krajewski, and W. F. Peck, Jr., Phys. Rev. Lett. **73**, 2756
(1994). * [22] J. Zarestky, C. Stassis, A. I. Goldman, P. C. Canfield,
P. Dervenagas, B. K. Cho, and D. C. Johnston, Phys. Rev. B **51**, 678
(1995). * [23] S. K. Sinha, J. W. Lynn, T. E. Grigereit, Z. Hossain, L.
C. Gupta, and R. Nagarajan, Phys. Rev. B **51**, 681 (1995). * [24] C.
Stassis (private communication). * [25] I. E. Dzialoshinskii, Sov. Phys.
JETP **6**, 1120 (1958). * [26] B. K. Cho and P. C. Canfield
(unpublished). * [27] Toru Moriya, Phys. Rev. **117**, 635 (1960). *
[28] Toru Moriya, Phys. Rev. **120**, 91 (1960). * [29] R. Movshovich,
M. F. Hundley, J. D. Thompson, P. C. Canfield, B. K. Cho, and A. V.
Chubukov, Physica C **227**, 381 (1994). * [30] P. Dervenagas, J.
Zarestky, C. Stassis, A. I. Goldman, P. C. Canfield, and B. K. Cho,
following paper, Phys. Rev. B **53**, 8506 (1996).
