# Observation of Pr and Gd ordering in the 2212-type compounds

(Pb0.5Cu0.5)2(Ba0.5Sr0.5)2_R_Cu2O8 (_R_ = Pr,Gd)

C. L. Yang, J. H. Shieh, Y. Y. Hsu, and H. C. Ku

Department of Physics, National Tsing Hua University, Hsinchu, Taiwan
300, Republic of China

J. C. Ho

Department of Physics and National Institute for Aviation Research,
Wichita State University, Wichita, Kansas 67260

###### Abstract

Magnetic and calorimetric measurements have been made to reveal a Pr
ordering in the (Pb0.5Cu0.5)2(Ba0.5Sr0.5)2PrCu2O8 compound which has the
(Pb,Cu)-2212-type tetragonal structure with lattice parameters a =
3.878(3) A and c = 27.594(9) A. The transition occurs at a relatively
high _T_N(Pr) of 9 K. In comparison, isostructural
(Pb0.5Cu0.5)2(Ba0.5Sr0.5)2GdCu2O8 exhibits a _T_N(Gd) of only 2.2 K. The
magnetic entropy associated with the Pr ordering has a lower limit value
equivalent to about 20

## 1 Introduction

The anomalously high antiferromagnetic Pr ordering temperature of 17 K
for PrBa2Cu3O7 with the two-CuO2-layer 123-type structure, which is the
only nonsuperconducting member of the 90-K _R_Ba2Cu3O7 system (_R_ = Y
or a rare earth), has been the focus of extensive research every since
the discovery of high-_T_c superconductor.1-6 With further oxygen
deficiency, _T_N(Pr) decreases to 10 K in PrBa2Cu3O6,5,7 In comparison,
other magnetic rare-earth compounds have a maximum _T_N(_R_) of 2.2 K in
GdBa2Cu3O7,8 Meanwhile, Pr substitution leads to _T_c suppression from
above 90 K in (_R_1-_x_Pr_x_Ba2Cu3O7,3-5 For higher Pr concentration,
superconductivity is totally quenched, and Pr magnetic ordering begins
to set in.

From the structural viewpoint, the 123-type PrBa2Cu3O7-_y_ system can be
recategorized as 1212C or 1212-type two-CuO2-layer system,10 in
analogous with Tl-1212 TI(Ba,Sr)2PrCu2O7,11-15 (Pb,Cu)-1212
(Pb,Cu)Sr2PrCu2O7,13 and Hg-1212 HgSr2PrCu2O7 compounds.16 They also
exhibit the common feature of having relatively high _T_N(Pr) values
ranging from 4 to 8 K. Similar Pr anomalies with _T_N(Pr) of 6-14 K were
reported recently for a new (Pb,Cu)-3212-type10 two-Cu2O-layer system
(Pr2Cu)(Ba,Sr)2PrCu2O8 or commonly written as 2213
Pb2(Ba,Sr)2PrCu3O8.16-18 Since in high-_T_c_ cuprates a total
replacement of Ca between the CuO2 layers can be achieved only in the
two-CuO2-layer m 212-type (_m_ = 1,2,3) structures, questions arise as
to whether the anomalous Pr effect occurs when m = 2. Particularly, no
Pr ordering was observed down to 1.6 K in the Bi-2212 compound
Bi2Sr2PrCu2O8.19 Therefore, this work was carried out by synthesizing
and characterizing a new (Pb,Cu)-2212 compound
(Pb0.5Cu0.5)2(Ba0.5Sr0.5)2PrCu2O8. Two other compounds with Pr
substituted by Y or Gd formed the basis for comparison.

## 2 Experiments

Samples with the nominal composition (Pb0.5Cu0.5)2(Ba0.5Sr0.5)2R Cu2O8
(_R_ 2212; R = Pr,Gd,Y) were prepared by two-state solid-state reaction
techniques. High-purity BaCO3, SrCO3, R2O3, and CuO powders with the
ratio Ba:Sr:_R_:Cu = 1:1:3 were well mixed first, ground and calcined at
920 degC in air with intermediate grinding. The precursor BaSr_R_Cu3Ox
powers were then mixed with the appropriate amount of PbO, and heated at
730 degC in air for 24 h. The reacted powders were pressed into pellets
and sintered at 825-830 degC in flowing Ar for 3 days, then quenched in
liquid nitrogen.

Crystallographic data were obtained with a Rigaku Rotaflex 18 kW
rotating anode powder x-ray diffractometer using Cu _K_a radiation with
a scanning rate of 1deg in 2_th_ per minute. A Lazy-Pulverix-PC program
was employed for phase identification and lattice parameter calculation.
ac electrical resistivity (16 Hz) was measured by the standard
four-probe method in a RMC Cryosystems closed-cycle refrigerator.
Magnetic susceptibility _kh_(_T_) and magnetic hysteresis _M_(_H_)
measurements were carried out with a Quantum Design MPMS superconducting
quantum interference devices (SQUID) magnetometer down to 2 K in an
applied field from 50 G to 5 T. Low-temperature specific-heat
measurements were made with an adiabatic calorimeter14 for R = Pr and Gd
or a relaxation calorimeter11 for R = Y.

## 3 Results and Discussion

The powder x-ray-diffraction pattern of the
(Pb0.5Cu0.5)2(Ba0.5Sr0.5)2PrCu2O8 sample is shown in Fig. 1. The
diffraction lines can be well indexed with the tetragonal
(Pb0.5Cu0.5)2(Ba0.5Sr0.5)2YCu2Og-type (Refs. 20 and 21) or
Tl2Ba2CaCu2O8-type 2212 structure[10] having lattice parameters
a = 3.8783$\AA$, c = 27.594(9)$\AA$ and a unit-cell volume
V = 415.0(4)$\AA^{3}$. No impurity phases were detected. This
(Pb,Cu)-2212 tetragonal structure with space group _14_/_mmm_ (Ref. 10)
is very similar to the pseudotetragonal Bi-2212-type structure of
BiSr2PrCu2O8 (a_(t) = 3.870$\AA \approx b_{t} = 3.871$$\AA$,
c = 30.34$\AA$) with the orthorhombic space group _Fmmm_,[22] where two
BiO planes are replaced by two (Pb,Cu)O planes. The only structural
discrepancy is caused by the strong structural modulation along the
orthorhombic bo axis in Bi-2212, which is absent in the tetragonal
(Pb,Cu)-2212.

The isostructural Gd2212 sample (Pb0.5Cu0.5)2(Ba0.5Sr0.5)2GdCu2O8 shows
smaller lattice parameter of a = 3.854(3)$\AA$, c = 27.457(9)$\AA$ and
V = 407.8(4)$\AA^{3}$ while the lattice parameters, of the prototype
compound Y2212 (Pb0.5Cu0.5)2(Ba0.5Sr0.5)2YCu2O8 are a = 3.830(3)$\AA$,
c = 27.450(9)$\AA$, and V = 402.7(4)$\AA^{3}$. The unit-cell volumes V
for these three typical samples (Pb0.5Cu0.5)2(Ba0.5Sr0.5)2_R_Cu2O8 (R
2212; R=Pr, Gd, Y) in Fig. 2 follow a linear dependence with the R³⁺
ionic radius, indicating a predominantly Pr³⁺ character in Pr2212. The
deviation of the Pr⁴⁺ point from this simple relation is apparent. The
conclusion is consistent with those for all other Pr-containing
two-CuO2-layer m 212-type compounds (m = 1, 3).[5, 11, 15, 16, 17]

All these samples are insulators or semiconductors based on the
electrical resistivity data. As shown in Fig. 3, the temperature
dependence of the logarithmic electrical resistivity lnρ(T) of the
Pr2212 sample shows a resistivity of 746 Ω cm at room temperature which
rises to 9.96 kΩ cm at 200 K. For the isostructural Y2212 sample, a
lower room-temperature resistivity of 6.26 Ω cm was observed, which
rises to 36.2 Ω cm at 200 K.

The temperature dependence of the molar magnetic susceptibilities χ_(m)
in a 1-T applied field is shown in Fig. 4. The small fluctuation
observed around room temperature indicates a possible Cu²⁺ magnetic
ordering around or above room temperature. The relatively high applied
field of 1 T is used in order to suppress the possible magnetic coupling
between the Cu²⁺ and Pr³⁺ moments. The figure inset shows a simple
χ_(m) = C/(T + θ_(p)) Curie

Figure 4: Temperature dependence of molar magnetic susceptibility χ_(m)
and low-temperature inverse molar magnetic susceptibility χ_(m)⁻¹
(inset) of Pr2212.

Figure 3: Temperature dependence of logarithmic electrical resistivity
lnρ(T) of R 2212 (R=Pr,Y). Solid lines are guides to the eyes only.

Figure 2: Tetragonal unit-cell volume V of the
(Pb0.5Cu0.5)2(Ba0.5Sr0.5)2_R_Cu2O8 (R 2212) compounds vs rare-earth R³⁺
ionic radius (R = Pr, Gd, Y) and Pr⁴⁺ ionic radius.

Weiss fit which yields a negative paramagnetic intercept θ_(p) =  − 10 K
and an effective magnetic moment of 3.22μ_(B) per Pr if the small Cu²⁺
moment is neglected. The effective moment again is closer to that of the
free Pr³⁺ ion (3.58μ_(B)) rather than the Pr⁴⁺ ion (2.54μ_(B)). Indeed,
most experimental evidence of Pr-containing high-T_(c) cuprates imply a
Pr³⁺ state. The negative paramagnetic intercept and the low-temperature
deviation from the Curie-Weiss fit indicate the occurrence of a
long-range antiferromagnetic Pr ordering. The T_(N)(Pr) of 9 K was
obtained from the minimum in the temperature derivative of molar
magnetic susceptibility dχ_(m) /dT in Fig. 5, with the onset of
deviation from the Curie-Weiss fit (dashed line) below 15 K. The field
dependence of magnetization M(H) measurements indicates the occurrence
of nonlinear magnetic hysteresis below 15 K. As shown in Fig. 6, an
apparent magnetic hysteresis with a small remnant magnetization
difference
$\Delta M\!\left( {\rm 0G} \right)\!=\!M^{+}\!\left( {\rm 0} \right)$
$-M^{-}\!\left( {\rm 0} \right)$ of 0.03 emu/g was observed at T_(N)(Pr)
of 9 K. At 5 K, $\Delta M\!\left( {\rm 0G} \right)$ increased to 0.47
emu/g.

For the isostructural magnetic compound Gd2212, the low-temperature
molar magnetic susceptibility χ_(m) in Fig. 7 shows a lower T_(N)(Gd) of
2.3 K. A simple χ_(m) = C/(T + θ_(p)) Curie-Weiss fit yields a negative
paramagnetic intercept θ_(p) =  − 2.31 K and an effective magnetic
moment of 8.06 μ_(B) per Gd if the small Cu²⁺ moment is again neglected.
The observed effective moment of 8.06μ_(B) /Gd is close to the free-ion
Gd³⁺ value of 7.98μ_(B).

Pr and Gd magnetic transitions are clearly corroborated by
low-temperature specific-heat data C(T) as shown in Fig. 8 for R 2212
($R\!=\!\Pr_{\rm r}$Gd), along with the data of nonmagnetic Y2212 for
comparison. A distinct but broad magnetic transition prevails in Pr2212
at T_(N)(Pr) = 9 K with an onset around 10−11 K. This transition
temperature is anomalously higher than T_(N)(Gd) of 2.2 K for
isostructural Gd2212 with a well-defined λ-type transition. No
transition was observed for Y2212. It is possible that the T_(N)(Pr) = 9
K represents the true three-dimensional (3D), or quasi-two-dimensional
(quasi-2D) long-range magnetic ordering, above which, the broad onset of
11−15 K observed from calorimetric and mag

Figure 5: Low-temperature differential molar magnetic susceptibility
dχ_(m) /dT for Pr2212 sample in applied field of 1 T.

Figure 8: Temperature dependence of specific heat C(T) for R 2212
($R\!=\!\Pr_{\rm r}$Gd, Y).

Figure 6: Field dependence of the magnetization M(H) at 5 and 9 K.

Figure 7: Temperature dependence of the molar magnetic susceptibility
χ_(m) of Gd2212.

netic measurements is due to the 2D ordering effect. [11, 12, 17, 18]

With the data plotted in Fig. 9 as C/T versus T², the Pr anomaly is
shown to be superimposed on a βT³ lattice contribution as well as an
additional term roughly linear with temperature. The estimated Debye
temperature θ_(D) as derived from β is 220 K for Pr2212 and 260 K for
Y2212. The linear term coefficient γ ≈ 0.31 J/mol K2 in Pr2212 is much
larger than the corresponding value of 0.016 J/mol K2 for Y2212, which
is also insulating. Such a sizable linear term in specific heat is one
of the most pronounced characters of the Pr-containing two-CuO₂-layer
m212 compounds (m = 1, 2, 3). [15, 11, 13, 14, 16, 17] However, since
these compounds are either insulators or semiconductors, the large
linear term is apparently not related to the standard conduction
electron contribution. By considering the crystal field splitting of the
Pr³⁺ ions [23] and the small γ value of nonmagnetic Y2212, this linear
term may represent the extended tails of the high-temperature Schottky
term. Another issue which remains to be solved is the C(T) behavior
below T_(N)(Pr) where, as shown in Fig. 6, the lowest-temperature data
are already below the linear extrapolation. It is possible that the
large linear term coefficient may gradually diminish as the temperature
decreases, or simply be quenched as soon as the Pr ordering takes place.
Without these questions answered, one can only estimate the lower limit
of magnetic entropy S_(m) for Pr2212 by integrating C_(m)/T
(C_(m) = C − γT − βT³) with respect to T between 3 and 10 K as shown in
Fig. 10. A value of 1.37 J/mol K thus obtained is equal to 15

Similar analysis resulted in only 13

Since Pr is one of the lightest elements of the rare-earth series, its
4f wave function should be more extended. The anomalously high T_(N)(Pr)
in Pr2212 indicates the importance of the quasi-2D Pr-O-Pr superexchange
mechanism through the strong hybridization between the Pr 4f and the
eight O 2p_(π) orbitals in the adjacent CuO₂ layers. [6] This degree of
hybridization can be readily reflected in the Pr-O bond length. [14-16]
As a consequence, the Pr ordering temperature T_(N)(Pr) for the m212
(m = 1, 3) systems decreases monotonically with increasing Pr-O bond
length. [5, 14-16] The reason that no T_(N)(Pr) can be observed down to
1.6 K for orthorhombic Pr2212 compound Bi₂Sr₂PrCu₂O₈ (Ref. [19]) is
probably due to the longer Pr-O bond length which is caused by the long
c-axis lattice parameter of 30.34 A and a strong structural modulation.
[22]

## IV Conclusion

Three 2212-type compounds (Pb_(0.5)Cu_(0.5))₂(Ba_(0.5)Sr_(0.5))₂R Cu₂O₈
(R 2212 with R=Pr, Gd, or Y) were synthesized. Pr ordering in Pr2212 was
observed through low-temperature magnetic and calorimetric measurements.
The T_(N)(Pr) of 9 K is much higher than T_(N)(Gd)= 2.2 K, while Y2212
shows no magnetic transition. The specific heat has an exceeding large
linear term which is common to most of the Pr-containing cuprates. Along
with earlier reports on 1212- and 3212-type compounds, the new results
complete the demonstration of anomalous Pr ordering in all
two-CuO₂-layer m212 (m = 1, 2, 3) systems. Finally, judging from the
magnetic entropy, the Pr-ordering appears to be a more 3D-like process.

## Acknowledgments

We thank S.H. Lin of the Academia Sinica for technical support in
relaxation calorimeter measurements. This work was supported by the
National Science Council of Republic of China under Contract Nos.
NSC-84-2112-M007-003 and 038.

Figure 10: C/T vs T of Pr2212 for magnetic entropy S_(m) estimation. The
dashed line is the extrapolation of the γT + βT³ term from above
T_(N)(Pr). The solid line is an arbitrary straight base line between 10
and 0 K.

* [11] L. Soderholm, K. Zhang, D. G. Hinks, M. A. Beno, J. D. Jorgensen,
C. U. Segre, and I. K. Schuller, Nature **328**, 604 (1987). * [12] K.
Liang, X. T. Xu, S. S. Xie, G. H. Rao, X. Y. Shao, and Z. G. Duan, Z.
Phys. B **69**, 137 (1987). * [13] Y. Dalichaouch, M. S. Torikachvili,
E. A. Early, B. W. Lee, C. L. Seaman, K. N. Yang, H. Zhou, and M. B.
Maple, Solid State Commun. **65**, 1001 (1988). * [14] H. C. Ku, C. C.
Chen, and S. W. Hsu, Int. J. Mod. Phys. B **2**, 1411 (1988). * [15] H.
B. Radousky, J. Mater. Res. **7**, 1917 (1992), and references cited
therein. * [16] R. Fehrenbacher and T. M. Rice, Phys. Rev. Lett. **70**,
3471 (1993). * [17] S. Uma, T. Sarkar, M. Seshasayee, G. Rangarajan, C.
R. V. Rao, and C. Subramanian, Solid State Commun. **87**, 289 (1993). *
[18] C. Ho, P. H. Hor, R. L. Meng, C. W. Chu, and C. Y. Huang, Solid
State Commun. **63**, 711 (1987). * [19] J. W. Lynn, in _High
Temperature Superconductivity_, edited by J. W. Lynn (Springer-Verlag,
Berlin, 1990), Chap. 8, p. 268, and references cited therein. * [20] H.
Shaked, P. M. Keane, J. C. Rodriquez, F. F. Owen, R. L. Hitterman, and
J. D. Jorgensen, _Crystal Structure of the High-T_(c) Superconducting
Copper-Oxides_ (Elsevier Science, British Vancouver, 1994). * [21] C. C.
Lai, B. S. Chiou, Y. Y. Chen, J. C. Ho, and H. C. Ku, Physica C **202**,
104 (1992). * [22] W. T. Hsieh, K. J. Chang, W. H. Li, K. C. Lee, J. W.
Lynn, C. C. Lai, and H. C. Ku, Phys. Rev. B **49**, 12 200 (1994). *
[23] H. C. Ku, C. C. Lai, J. H. Shieh, J. W. Liou, C. Y. Wu, and J. C.
Ho, Physica B **194-196**, 213 (1994). * [24] C. C. Lai, T. J. Lee, H.
K. Fun, H. C. Ku, and J. C. Ho, Phys. Rev. B **50**, 4092 (1994). * [25]
H. K. Fun, P. Yang, C. C. Lai, H. C. Ku, and T. J. Lee, Physica C
**223**, 267 (1994). * [26] H. C. Ku, J. H. Shieh, C. C. Lai, C. S.
Chiou, J. W. Liou, and J. C. Ho (unpublished). * [27] J. H. Shieh, H. C.
Ku, and J. C. Ho, Phys. Rev. B **50**, 3288 (1994). * [28] W. T. Hsieh,
W. H. Li, K. C. Lee, J. W. Lynn, J. H. Shieh, and H. C. Ku, J. Appl.
Phys. **76**, 7124 (1994). * [29] Y. Gao, P. Pernambuco-Wise, J. E.
Crow, J. O’Reilly, N. Spencer, H. Chen, and R. E. Salomon, Phys. Rev. B
**45**, 7346 (1992). * [30] T. Rouillon, R. Petoux, D. Groult, C.
Michel, M. Hervieu, T. Provost, and B. Raveau, J. Solid State Chem.
**78**, 322 (1989). * [31] A. Tokiwa, T. Oku, M. Nagoshi, M. Kikuchi, K.
Hiraga, and Y. Syono, Physica C **161**, 459 (1989). * [32] R. M. Hazen,
C. T. Prewitt, R. J. Angel, N. L. Ross, L. W. Finger, C. G. Hadidiacos,
D. R. Veblen, P. J. Heaney, P. H. Hor, R. L. Meng, Y. Y. Sun, Y. Q.
Wang, Y. Y. Xue, Z. J. Huang, L. Gao, J. Bechtold, and C. W. Chu, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **60**, 1174 (1988). * [33] L. Soderholm, C. K. Loong, G. L.
Goodman, and B. D. Dabrowski, Phys. Rev. B **43**, 7923 (1991).
