# Variation of T_(c) and resistivity in charge-compensated

(Ca_x_La_(1 − x))(Ba_(1.75 − x)La_(0.25 + x))Cu₃O_(y)

D. Goldschmidt, A. Knizhnik, Y. Direktovitch, G.M. Reisner, and Y.
Eckstein

Department of Physics and Crown Center for Superconductivity, Technion
Israel Institute of Technology, Haifa 32000, Israel

2 November 1993; revised manuscript received 25 January 1994

###### Abstract

We report careful measurements of the transition temperature T_(c) of
(Ca_(x)La_(1 − x)) (Ba_(1.75 − x)La_(0.25 + x))Cu₃O_(y) as a function of
oxygen content y, mainly for compositions x = 0.1 and 0.4. This 1:2:3
superconductor family, that exists in the composition range
0 ≤ x ≤  ∼ 0.5, is tetragonal and has a maximal T_(c) of  ∼ 82 K.
Through mutual charge-compensating cosubstitutions, it preserves a
constant charge on the noncopper cations (Q = 7.25), independent of x.
We observed a monotonic decrease in T_(c) as y varies from the initial
value  ∼ 7.15 to the insulator state roughly at y ≃ 6.9. At the
metal-insulator (MI) transition, the value of $y_{\rm MI}$ decreases
with increasing x. Most unusual is the substantial increase in T_(c) by
21-24 K when x changes from 0.1 to 0.4, under conditions where the
charge density remains constant. It is accompanied by a twofold decrease
in resistivity ρ. We attribute this to the change in band structure with
composition x, which occurs due to increase in Ca content and to oxygen
redistribution near La that substitutes for Ba. This induces a net
electron transfer from the planes to the disordered chains. This
assumption is supported by the decrease in $y_{\rm MI}$ and in lattice
parameters with increasing x. It implies that changes in mobile hole
density, which are responsible for the increase in T_(c) and decrease in
ρ, take place despite the total charge density being constant.

pacs: 0163-1829/94/49(22)/15928(8)/S06.00 + Footnote †: preprint: 1 June
1994-II

## I Introduction

Recently we have investigated the new family
(Ca_(x)La_(1 − x))(Ba_(1.75 − x)La_(0.25 + x))Cu₃O_(y), which belongs to
the 1:2:3 system.[1] It is tetragonal (P4/mmm symmetry) throughout its
range of existence 0 ≤ x ≤  ∼ 0.5. Ca occupies the Y site in
concentrations not exceeding x = 0.5, while La (totaling 1.25 per
formula unit) shares both the Y and Ba sites [we use the site notation
of YBa₂Cu₃O_(y) (YBCO)]. In accordance with other investigations,[2] we
observed that the x = 0.5 member of this family is the actual material
obtained when attempting to prepare the so called "CaLaBaCu₃O_(y)"
material. Meanwhile there have been electron microscopy[3] and neutron
diffraction[4] studies on closely related families, confirming our
observations. In particular, all diffraction methods agree about the
tetragonal structure, the maximum Ca content, and the site occupancy of
Ca. The tetragonal structure does not rule out the possibility of
short-range nontetragonal distortions, unresolvable by diffraction
methods. In this case one might expect microtwinning to occur within a
short length scale.

Our interest in this family was the possibility of investigating effects
of charge compensation due to equal amounts of substitution on the Y and
Ba sites. Hence, Q (the total formal valence of the noncopper cations)
is constant independent of x (i.e., Q = 7.25; see Sec. IV). When the
oxygen content y is maintained constant this family becomes
isoelectronic, that is, the chemically determined total hole density is
independent of x. As the mobile and chemical hole densities are believed
to be related to one another, T_(c) was expected to remain constant,
independent of x. Instead, T_(c) varied from  ∼ 45 K at x = 0 to  ∼ 80 K
at x = 0.4.[1] In reality though, y did not remain strictly constant,
but increased by  ∼ 0.1 over the range x = 0 to x = 0.4. In an attempt
to hold y strictly constant we have reduced the oxygen content in the
high-x members of this family. We extracted from these preliminary data
a change of  ≈ 30 K in T_(c) at constant y and Q (i.e., with changing x)
suggesting that a big change in T_(c) takes place at apparently constant
hole density. This indicates that modifications in the estimates of hole
density or in the relationships between T_(c) and hole density (e.g.,
the parabolic relationship) might be required.

After publication we realized that some of the reduced samples might be
inhomogenous in oxygen distribution. Such inhomogeneities would
artificially shift T_(c), exhibiting an erroneous plateau of T_(c) vs y,
together with an extremely sharp transition into the insulating state.
Therefore, we performed new reduction experiments on this family.

In this paper we report careful and systematic oxygen reduction
experiments. Macroscopic oxygen homogeneity has been achieved through
high annealing temperatures and confirmed by the low transition width.
The new results differ somewhat from the previous ones,[1] owing to the
better homogeneity. Nevertheless they confirm the major conclusions
obtained previously. These were the following.

(1) T_(c) varies (by 21-24 K) when the chemically determined mobile hole
density remains constant.

(2) Unlike in YBCO, the transition from the region of maximal T_(c) to
the nonsuperconducting ("insulator") state takes place within a narrow
range of oxygen content, i.e., from y ≅ 7.15 to y ≅ 6.9.

(3) A dramatic semiconductorlike behavior of the resistivity ρ(T)
appears with only a small decrease in y even in samples that undergo a
superconducting transition.

## II Experimental

Sample preparation by solid-state reaction has been described
elsewhere.[1] Essentially, raw powders were machine mixed under N2
atmosphere fired in air at 950 degC for one day, removed from the hot
furnace and reground; this sequence was repeated three times. Formation
of small crystallites during the firing step acts in favor of narrow
transitions, low resistivities, and increased hardness of the samples.
This could be assisted by adding to the third firing small amounts of
powder left over from the first firing. After pelletizing, samples were
sintered for 70 h in flowing oxygen at 970 degC and cooled at a rate of
10 degC/h to room temperature. "As-prepared" samples (i.e., after
sintering and before reduction) had high oxygen content (y changing
between 7.05 and 7.15, depending on x), and were phase pure. In the
final batch of samples (no. 6) we attempted to further increase the
oxygen content via a multistep cooling process consisting, in addition,
of six one-day soaks at temperatures 400, 350, 320, 300, 280, and 260
degC. This increased y only slightly and had no other apparent effect on
physical properties, implying that as-prepared samples approach the
limit of oxygen solubility in these materials.

The oxygen reduction was carried out in a tube furnace using either
flowing N2 gas containing 50 (or Ar with 25) ppm of O2, or pure O2. For
N2, the samples were kept for 16 h at an annealing temperature in the
range of 300-430 degC, and then removed from the furnace or cooled at a
rate of 15 degC/h to room temperature. For small reduction in the oxygen
content, which required low annealing temperatures, signs of
inhomogeneity have been observed such as the appearance of an additional
peak in the imaginary part of the susceptibility χ^(′′). This
inhomogeneity could severely affect our results by creating an
artificial plateau in the dependence of $T_{\rm c}$ on y. Therefore, we
performed most reductions in pure O2, which allowed annealing at
temperatures 100-200 degC higher than in N2, followed by quench into
liquid nitrogen, thereby improving oxygen homogeneity. No aging effects
on $T_{\rm c}$ were observed following this quench. The annealing curves
of two compositions for both N2 and O2 atmospheres are shown in Fig. 1.
Generally speaking, the O2-quenched samples had a $T_{\rm c}(y)$
dependence similar to the N2 annealed samples, but the magnetic
transition became half as wide, indicating better homogeneity.

The phase purity of our samples was checked by careful x-ray diffraction
(XRD) measurements (Siemens D5000 powder diffractometer, Cu Kα
radiation) on both as-prepared and reduced samples in the range
10^(∘) ≤ 2θ ≤ 140^(∘) using stepscan ( 0.02^(∘) step size, 8 sec per
step). The intensity of the strongest line was on the order of several
thousand counts, rendering the observation of impurity phases relatively
easy.[1, 2]

Oxygen content was determined by iodometric titration[5] performed on a
small fraction (typically  < 10 mg) of the same sample on which we
measured resistivity and susceptibility. The reproducibility of our
measurements for a given sample was better than Δy = ±0.005. [In many
cases, repetitions of titration B (Ref. 5) yielded a difference in the
value of y as small as 0.002.] This value (0.005) also corresponds to
the absolute accuracy between samples provided that small amounts of
impurity phases, undetectable even under our high intensity XRD
measurements, do not exist, or at least do not vary significantly from
sample to sample. In fact, for the absolute error in y to be 0.01, the
concentration of these hypothetical impurity phases should not exceed 2

Additional indications that the O2-annealed samples are close to
equilibrium come from the reproducibility of our results at different
thermal cycling. For instance, we compared y in two samples that were
annealed at 400 degC. One was heated directly from room temperature,
while the heating cycle of the second sample included a preheating step
of 6 h at 600 degC. Similarly, we compared y in the usual heating
schedule (16 h at 420 degC) to that in a longer anneal (48 h at 420
degC). In both tests the values of y did not differ by more than 0.002
from one sample to another.

Resistivity was measured by standard four-probe dc methods on samples
pressed to a bar shape measuring 2.5 × 2.5 × 13 mm³ and containing
gold-wire implanted contacts. The measurement current was usually 10 mA
but currents ranging between 1 and 100 mA were occasionally employed in
order to check the quality of the

Figure 1: Oxygen content y as function of annealing temperature for O2
and N2 gas at atmospheric pressure. Notice that the x = 0.1 samples can
be reduced at lower temperatures than the x = 0.4 samples.

grain boundaries.[6] ac magnetic susceptibility was measured at  ∼ 1 kHz
and at an estimated driving field of  ∼ 25 mOe on small ( ∼ 10-50 mg)
samples cut across the bar. Temperature was measured with a calibrated
Si diode, attached to the sample with Apiezon grease.

In this family, oxygen homogeneity is a crucial parameter that affects
the quality of the results. In the course of our measurements, we
examined more than 50 samples of the x = 0.4 and 30 of the x = 0.1
compositions, which were prepared in several batches. Most of them
followed a definite and reproducible pattern in the dependence of T_(c)
on oxygen content. Scatter in our data, which we observed in our early
data points, correlates with inhomogeneous oxygen distribution, as the
corresponding samples were reduced at low annealing temperatures.
Scatter in the T_(c) vs y data is a result of the way these parameters
are determined. T_(c) represents the superconducting portions of the
sample having the highest oxygen content, while y represents an average
over the entire sample. Thus, the measurements of T_(c) and of y weigh
differently various parts of the sample. For instance, a broad
distribution of oxygen content would result in an artificially higher
T_(c) than in a uniform distribution; besides, the transition becomes
wider. Therefore, we discarded some samples from our final set of data
points, according to the following three criteria that are related to
the width of the transition:

(a) ΔT_(c) (the transition width) at a given y is more than
$1\frac{1}{2}$ times larger than the lowest value that we obtained
(e.g., by the O₂ annealing and quench).

(b) The appearance of two peaks in χ^(′′) becomes visible.

(c) T_(c, 0)^(R) (zero resistance at low measurement current) and
T_(c)^(χ) (susceptibility onset) become widely separated, i.e.,
T_(c, 0)^(χ) − T_(c)^(χ) ≥ 3 K or T_(c)^(χ) − T_(c, 0)^(R) ≥ 1 K.

This selection left more than 70

Before reduction, it is essential to avoid contamination of the samples
by reducing agents such as Apiezon grease. Samples that got contaminated
by grease (e.g., during measurement at low temperatures) became, upon
successive annealing, reduced in an uncontrolled manner, thereby
yielding nontypical results. As mentioned in the Introduction, the
reduced samples of our preliminary study[1] were prepared in this
uncontrolled manner. This is the reason for the change in the T_(c) vs y
curve of reduced samples between the present and our previous work.[1]
The results described in this work correspond only to the controlled
reduction procedures, as outlined in previous paragraphs, and do not
include samples that had previously been subjected to contact with
grease.

## III Results

Our diffraction results for the x = 0.1 and x = 0.4 members of the
family

$$({\rm Ca}_{x}{\rm La}_{1-x})({\rm Ba}_{1.75-x}{\rm La}_{0.25+x}){\rm Cu}_{3}{ \rm O}_{y}$$

are summarized in Fig. 2. Figure 2(a) presents typical XRD spectra of
the reduced samples. The reduced samples, as well as the more oxidized
samples[1] (not shown), were all phase pure with no traces of impurity
phases. All the lines could be indexed according to the tetragonal space
group P4/mmm; no lines remained unidentified. The XRD spectra were, in
fact, almost identical to those that we reported previously,[1] i.e.,
the more oxidized samples were approximately pseudocubic
($\frac{c}{3}\cong a$). The only observable difference in the reduced
samples was an increase in the c axis so that, for instance, splitting
of the (200) and (006) lines could be observed [see inset, Fig. 2(a)].

Lattice parameters as function of oxygen content are shown in Fig. 2(b).
The trend, well known from other 1:2:3 compounds, that c increases with
decreasing y is observed also in the present family; a, though, remains
almost constant, as is typical of the average ($\frac{a+b}{2}$) of the a
and b axes in the orthorhombic structure. Interestingly, at any given y
both lattice parameters of the x = 0.1 material exceed those of the
x = 0.4 material. This confirms the trend we observed previously in the
more oxidized samples,[1] that the lattice parameters decrease with
increasing x. Moreover, this emphasizes that the changes in lattice
parameters as function of composition

Figure 2: (a) Typical x-ray powder diffraction pattern of reduced
samples. Inset shows the splitting of the (200) and (006) lines. (b)
Lattice parameters as function of oxygen content y, for samples reduced
in oxygen. Lines are guides for the eye.

occur _even at constant y_. This observation suggests that changes in
electron charge distribution take place when all parameters but x remain
unchanged, i.e., under conditions where the total charge within a unit
cell remains constant.

Our results of the onset resistive ($T_{\rm c}^{R}$) and magnetic
($T_{\rm c}^{\prime}$) transition temperatures vs oxygen content for the
x = 0.1 and x = 0.4 samples are shown in Figs. 3(a) and 3(b). There is a
monotonic decrease in $T_{\rm c}$ from the highest $T_{\rm c}$ at
y ≅ 7.15 to the insulator state roughly at y ≅ 6.9. In other words,
there is no plateau in the dependence of $T_{\rm c}$ on y as seen in
YBCO. Also unlike YBCO, the range in oxygen content from full to
complete disappearance of superconductivity is quite narrow, i.e.,
Δy ≅ 0.25. This implies that the metal-insulator (MI) transition has
shifted to high oxygen content, that is, it occurs close to y ≅ 6.9 as
compared with y ≅ 6.4 in YBCO. Notice that this transition falls at
still higher oxygen content in the lower-x compositions.

In Figs. 3(a) and 3(b) one can see that, at constant oxygen content,
$T_{\rm c}$ increases markedly when the cation composition varies from
x = 0.1 to x = 0.4. This behavior was observed in both the resistivity
and susceptibility measurements. For instance, for y = 7.05,
$T_{\rm c}^{R}$ varies from  ∼ 42 K at x = 0.1 to  ∼ 63 K at x = 0.4,
while $T_{\rm c}^{\prime}$ varies from  ∼ 35 K to  ∼ 56 K. At y = 7.00,
the difference in $T_{\rm c}$ increases from  ∼ 21 to  ∼ 24 K. As was
noted in the Introduction, this large increase in $T_{\rm c}$ occurs at
apparently constant mobile hole density the wider becomes the tail in
the resistive transition (not shown). This tail, which develops upon
increasing the measurement current, reflects the contribution of grain
boundaries to the resistivity.[6] This observation confirms that the
susceptibility transition is associated with grain boundaries.

In most samples, $\Delta T_{c}^{\rm x}<\Delta T_{c}^{R}$ (Fig. 4). In
particular, for the O₂-quenched samples, $\Delta T_{c}^{\rm x}$ might be
as small as $\frac{1}{3}\Delta T_{c}^{R}$. The narrow magnetic
transition could reflect a narrow distribution of T_(c) in the network
of weak superconductor grain boundaries. The wider resistive transition
might be related to the distribution of T_(c) inside (or among) the
grains. It is therefore possible that under the best reduction
conditions employed in this investigation there still remains slight
oxygen inhomogeneity inside grains, particularly at low y where
ΔT_(c)^(R) is large. We estimate an upper limit of this inhomogeneity by
employing the criterion of Jacobson _et al.[10]_ Using the relationship
$\Delta T_{c}=\Delta T_{c}^{0}+\frac{dT_{c}}{dy}\Delta y$, these authors
have shown that, in YBCO, ΔT_(c) correlates with the inhomogeneity Δy
within the sample. Here ΔT_(c)⁰ denotes the "intrinsic" width induced by
other effects (in fact, all except oxygen inhomogeneity). We note that,
unlike in YBCO, the derivative $\frac{dT_{c}}{dy}$ is essentially
constant. Therefore, in the present family ΔT_(c)^(R) depends linearly
on Δy, implying that Δy increases at low y. Substituting for ΔT_(c)⁰ a
value of 1 K [i.e., on the order of the lowest ΔT_(c)^(R) (≅ 1.5 K), see
Fig. 4(a)], and for $\frac{dT_{c}}{dy}$ the average value 300 K per
oxygen obtained from Fig. 3(a), we obtain Δy ≅ ±0.015 in the worst case
(e.g., corresponding to ΔT_(c)^(R) = 10 K.) This value is quite low and
becomes much smaller when ΔT_(c)^(R) decreases. This supports our claims
for high accuracy in the determination of y.

The room-temperature resistivity $\rho_{290~{}{\rm K}}$ is displayed in
Fig. 5(a) as a function of oxygen content for x = 0.4 and x = 0.1. The
monotonic increase in ρ with decreasing y correlates with the decrease
in T_(c). Interestingly, ρ increases with decreasing x_even at
constant_y. This is demonstrated in detail in Fig. 5(b) where
$\rho_{290~{}{\rm K}}$ of samples with various compositions x has been
extracted at y = 7.07. This change in $\rho_{290~{}{\rm K}}$ resembles
the change in T_(c) at constant y. For convenience we also show in Fig.
5(b) the results of T_(c)^(R) vs x at this value of y. Notice that this
figure also contains data corresponding to compositions not shown
earlier in this investigation.

## IV Discussion

The (Ca_(x)La_(1 − x))(Ba_(1.75 − x)La_(0.25 + x))Cu₃O_(y) family, which
belongs to the 1:2:3 system, is characterized by a constant charge Q of
the noncopper cations due to equal amounts of substitutions on both the
Y and Ba sites, i.e., Q = 1.75 × 2 + 1.25 × 3 = 7.25 electron charges
per formula unit. Here, 1.75 is the total (Ca,Ba) content of valence +2,
while 1.25 is the total La content of valence +3.

Figure 4: Width of (a) the resistive ΔT_(c)^(R) and (b) the magnetic
$\Delta T_{c}^{\rm x}$ transition as function of oxygen content y. Inset
demonstrates the method of determination of ΔT_(c)^(R).

Figure 5: (a) Room-temperature resistivity $\rho_{290~{}{\rm K}}$ as a
function of oxygen content y. Circles denote x = 0.1 and rectangles
denote x = 0.4 samples. (b) $\rho_{290~{}{\rm K}}$ and T_(c)^(R)
(resistivity-onset transition) extracted at constant oxygen content
(y = 7.07) as a function of composition x. This figure contains data
corresponding to compositions not shown in previous figures.

Thus, exact charge compensation on the Y and Ba sites maintains the
total cationic charge constant, independent of x. Therefore, when the
oxygen content y is kept constant, the total anionic contribution to the
charge density remains constant as well. Hence, the balance charge on
the copper ions together with the average charge p per copper is
constant. Under these conditions, the system becomes _isoelectronic_. It
was expected that the mobile hole density per CuO₂ plane
$p_{\rm plane}$, which depends on the anionic and cationic contributions
to the charge density, would remain constant. Hence, T_(c) is expected
to remain constant. For instance, the well-known parabolic
relationship[12] attributes a definite value of $T_{\rm c}$ to a given
value of $p_{\rm plane}$. In particular, $T_{c,\rm max}$, the maximal
value that T_(c) attains, occurs at $p_{\rm plane}=0.16$.[12] In
contrast, we show here that in the present family one cannot predict the
value of T_(c) based solely on the apparent value of $p_{\rm plane}$.
This is demonstrated by comparison of the T_(c)(y) curves for various
compositions (Fig. 3) and observation of the changes in T_(c) at
constant $p_{\rm plane}$ [Fig. 5(b)]. For instance, at y = 7.05 both
T_(c)^(R) and $T_{c}^{\rm x}$ change by 21 K with x varying from 0.1 to
0.4. At y = 7.00 the change in T_(c) is even bigger (24 K). Thus, under
conditions where $p_{\rm plane}$ seems to be constant, e.g.,
$p_{\rm plane}\cong 0.16$ (see below) where in other families
$T_{c}=T_{c,\rm max}$, we observed a change of  ∼ 30% in T_(c) when the
composition changes. We conclude that charge-compensating
cosubstitutions provide a unique tool for investigating changes in
mobile hole density that are not directly derived from the formal ionic
charges.

The unusual behavior of the present family can be illustrated by placing
our data points on a plot of $T_{c}/T_{c,\rm max}$ vs $p_{\rm plane}$.
Recently, Zhang and Sato[13] have suggested that such a plot produces a
universal relationship since curves corresponding to many p-type cuprate
superconductor systems all coalesce into a single trapezoidal curve. In
contrast, the present family departs markedly from the universal
curve[14] since this curve does not permit big changes in T_(c) at
constant $p_{\rm plane}$, as we observed between
(Ca_(0.1)La_(0.9))(Ba_(1.65)La_(0.35))Cu₃O_(7.07) and
(Ca_(0.4)La_(0.6))(Ba_(1.35)La_(0.65))Cu₃O_(7.07) [see Fig. 5(b)]. This
departure is demonstrated in Fig. 6 which reproduces Fig. 1 in Ref.
[13]. The endpoints on each of the three vertical lines are the results
of both materials mentioned above (i.e., the x = 0.1 and x = 0.4
samples), measured at three different isoelectronic charge densities,
corresponding to y = 7.07, 7.05, and 6.97. To each line we assigned a
value of $p_{\rm plane}$ derived from the formula of Tokura _et al.[15]_
[$p_{\rm plane}=\frac{1}{2}(y-Q+\frac{1}{2})$], which for y = 7.07
yields the value 0.16 that we use above. We took $T_{c,\rm max}=81.5$ K
for all x members of this family.[14] We emphasize, though, that as long
as $p_{\rm plane}$ is taken to be a function of only y and Q, it does
not make any difference what the exact formula for determining
$p_{\rm plane}$ is, since $p_{\rm plane}$ remains constant when both y
and Q do. Thus our conclusion about big variation of T_(c) at constant
$p_{\rm plane}$ remains valid _irrespective_ of the method employed for
its estimate. Clearly, these vertical lines (Fig. 6) cannot be described
by the trapezoidal curve as can other materials. Apparently, under
isoelectronic conditions the mobile hole density is not directly related
to the chemical valence of the ions.

The increase in the mobile hole density would usually be accompanied by
a decrease in room-temperature resistivity. Indeed, at y = 7.07, the
resistivity of the x = 0.1 samples is almost twice larger than that of
the x = 0.4 samples (Fig. 5). We emphasize that this increase in ρ
occurs under isoelectronic conditions (constant y). However, changes in
scattering lifetime may also contribute to this large change in
resistivity.

Hints for peculiarities in the dependence of T_(c) on hole density have
been reported recently in a similar cosubstituted family
(Ca_(x)Y_(1 − x))(Ba_(2 − x)La_(x))Cu₃O_(y). In this family,
investigated by Slater and Greaves,[4]Q is kept constant (Q = 7) and y
was determined from neutron diffraction. These authors suggest a
"redistribution of electrons from Cu(2) to Cu(1)" as a possible
explanation of their results.

Our observations suggest that, while the average electron density
remains constant, the chemical changes induce changes in band structure,
thereby modifying the actual mobile hole density. In particular, upon
passing from the low-x to the high-x members, the Fermi energy E_(F)
shifts downward relative to the top of the conduction band, yielding
large increase in the hole density. Any formula attempting to estimate
the actual hole density should take these changes in band structure
explicitly into account.

In support of substantial changes in band structure in this family as a
function of x, notice that the oxygen content at which the MI transition
occurs increases with decreasing x. This confirms our suggestion that
E_(F) of the low-x members lies closer to the top of the band, thus
requiring fewer electrons (i.e., a smaller oxygen deficit) to drive
these materials from the superconductor into the insulator state. As the
absolute position of E_(F) is not expected to change with x (since,
after all, the total electron density does not change at constant y),
this would require a change in band structure.

Figure 6: The dependence of τ_(c) ($=T_{c}/T_{c,\rm max}$) on mobile
hole density per CuO₂ plane ($=p_{\rm Ba}$; reproduced from Ref. [13]).
The vertical lines correspond to samples of the present family, each
having various x (x = 0.1, 0.2, 0.3, and 0.4 from bottom to top) and
constant oxygen content y. The three lines correspond to y = 7.07, 7.05,
and 6.97. The present family cannot be described by the curve
corresponding to the other families.

Still another indication of substantial changes in the electronic
density of states (DOS) N(E) in this family is the range in oxygen
content within which superconductivity disappears, i.e., Δy ≅ 0.25.
Compared with YBCO in which Δy ≅ 0.6, the range of existence of the
superconducting phase is about two to three times narrower. One would
expect that in the present family the MI transition would occur at
y ≅ 6.65 (i.e., since Q = 7.25 as compared to Q = 7 in YBCO).[16]
Instead, it occurs at y ≅ 6.9, implying that the superconducting state
is extremely sensitive to oxygen depletion. Such a sensitivity to small
changes in electron density is typical of narrow-band behavior,[17, 18,
19] or of the behavior in the vicinity of a Van Hove singularity in the
DOS.[20] A similar behavior was observed in
ErBa_(1.7)La_(0.3)Cu₃O_(y),[21] where the MI transition occurs at
y ≅ 6.8 and in La(Ba_(2 − x)La_(x))Cu₃O_(y).[22, 23] As in the present
family, these materials contain La on the Ba site. This suggests that
the substitution of La for Ba may have a strong effect on the electronic
properties in these systems. In comparison with YBCO, this seems to
reflect substantial sharpening of the DOS (i.e., larger dN/dE) at the
upper leading edge of the conduction band, that is, in the energy range
below the top of the band. Similar conclusions have been obtained by
comparing LaBa₂Cu₃O₇ (T_(c) = 92 K) with our x = 0 member.[1]

LaBa (La that substitutes for Ba) is believed to play an important role
not only as an electron donor but also as a center around which oxygen
tends to accumulate in the basal plane. This tendency of oxygen to
accumulate is reflected in the large y values and in the tetragonal
structure. We note that, in most of the range in which this family is
superconducting, the oxygen concentration exceeds the maximal y
attainable in YBCO. In part, this could be related to the large value of
Q in this family. Thus the analog of y = 7 in YBCO is, in the present
case, y = 7.125. However, in YBCO it is hard to obtain y > 6.98 whereas
in the present case we got y = 7.15 at x = 0.4. Turning to the
tetragonal structure, notice that any oxygen in excess of y = 7 has to
increase the O(5) site occupancy [where O(5) denotes the empty site in
an ordered chain YBCO], thereby increasing the tendency toward a
tetragonal structure. Clearly, if y = 8 had been accessible, the
material would be perfectly tetragonal even on a local scale.

The concentration of LaBa ( = 0.25 + x) increases with composition.
Thus, even at constant y there is a tendency of oxygen to accumulate
around these LaBa centers. Hence, with increasing x, _oxygen
redistribution within the basal plane_ is expected, in which oxygen
accumulates around LaBa and, to a lesser extent, depletes around Ba. It
is our conjecture that this oxygen redistribution is the major cause for
the changes in band structure at constant y. It should also provide
localized states to the band made of basal-plane orbitals, which act as
electron traps and accept a fraction of the electrons donated by the
LaBa. The remaining fraction is insufficient to fully compensate for the
hole that is generated in the CuO₂ plane by electron transfer to the Cay
(Ca that substitutes on the Y site). The net effect is an additional
internal electron transfer from planes to "chains" (i.e., in addition to
charge transfer that may be caused by nonisovalent substitution).
Internal electron transfer would be consistent with the decrease in a
(lattice parameter) owing to the antibonding nature of the CuO₂ band
states; it is known that removal of electrons from such states causes a
decrease in lattice parameter.[24]

It is noted that, in order to explain the large anisotropy in the
temperature factors of the chain oxygen, Slater and Greaves[4] assumed a
static inward shift of oxygen toward the center of the basal plane. They
notice that this shift is related to the presence of La on the Ba sites,
as it is large in the vicinity of LaBa and completely absent in the
vicinity of Ba, thereby giving rise to disorder in the basal plane. It
is possible that this kind of disorder also contributes to changes in
the band structure.

Charge redistribution might be important also in another well known
problem within the 1:2:3 system, namely, the puzzle of the effective
valence of Pr (i.e, whether it is +3, +4, or somewhere in between).
Recently, Khomskii[25] has suggested that in (Pr_(x)Y_(1 − x))Ba₂Cu₃O₇
internal charge transfer between CuO₂ planes and the charge reservoir is
the dominant factor in controlling T_(c). Presenting spectroscopic
evidence that the valence of Pr is close to +3, independent of x, he has
attributed the disappearance of superconductivity to charge
redistribution effects, presumably induced by the extra positive charge
on the Pr (i.e., in excess of +3). Since this happens at almost constant
y, this family would again be in marked deviation from the universal
behavior demonstrated by other systems.

## V Conclusions

By careful oxygen reduction we have shown that two distinct T_(c)(y) and
ρ(y) curves are obtained for x = 0.1 and x = 0.4. The large increase in
T_(c) and decrease in ρ under isoelectronic conditions (i.e., at
constant oxygen content), is unexpected. It signals additional electron
transfer from planes to "chains" that takes place despite the average
hole density being constant. We have associated this internal charge
transfer with changes in band structure believed to be related to the
accumulation of oxygen in the vicinity of LaBa and to addition of Cay.

Decrease in the value of y at the MI transition with increasing x
provides supportive evidence for changes in band structure. In
particular, an upward shift of the top of the conduction band yields an
increase in mobile hole density, equivalently described in terms of
electron transfer. Similarly, the decrease in lattice parameters
supports internal electron transfer.

In comparison with YBCO, the narrow region of superconductivity in the
present family ( ∼ 6.9 ≤ y ≤  ∼ 7.15) suggests substantial sharpening in
the density of states at the top of the conduction band. Lack of a
plateau in the dependence of T_(c) on y suggests that oxygen ordering is
relatively unimportant in the present family, in harmony with the
tetragonal structure.

The big changes in T_(c) and ρ that take place at apparently constant
hole density suggest that conventional methods for estimating the mobile
hole density should be reexamined. In particular, these methods should
be modified to allow for changes in hole density when the chemical count
of electrons (or holes) gives a fixed value. Through other
cosubstitutions, we are currently investigating additional families. Our
preliminary results with Nd replacing La suggest that similar effects
occur.

###### Acknowledgements.

We would like to thank C. Kuper for helpful comments. This research was
supported by the Fund for the Promotion of Research at the Technion.

## References

* [1] D. Goldschmidt, G.M. Reisner, Y. Direktovitch, A. Knizhnik, E.
Garstein, G. Kimmel, and Y. Eckstein, Phys. Rev. B **48**, 532 (1993);
Physica C **217**, 217 (1993). * [2] F. Keller-Berest, S. Megtert, G.
Collin, P. Monod, and M. Ribault, Physica C **161**, 150 (1989). * [3]
H. Gu, K.K. Fung, C.D. Wei, J.L. Zhang, and D.L. Yin, Physica C **208**,
391 (1993). * [4] P.R. Slater and C. Greaves, Supercond. Sci. Technol.
**5**, 205 (1992); **2**, 5 (1989). * [5] A. Knizhnik, Y. Direktovitch,
D. Goldschmidt, and Y. Eckstein, Supercond. Sci. Technol. **6**, 209
(1993). * [6] D. Goldschmidt, Phys. Rev. B **39**, 2372 (1989); **39**,
9139 (1989). * [7] H. Claus, M. Braun, A. Erb, K. Rohberg, B. Runtsch,
H. Wuhl, G. Brauchle, P. Schweib, G. Muller-Vogt, and H. v. Lohneysen,
Physica C **198**, 42 (1992). * [8] T. Graf, G. Triscone, and J. Muller,
J. Less-Common Met. **159**, 349 (1990). * [9] R.J. Cava, A.W. Hewat,
E.A. Hewat, B. Batlogg, M. Marezio, K.M. Rabe, J.J. Krajewski, W.F.
Peck, Jr., and L.W. Rupp, Jr., Physica C **165**, 419 (1990). * [10]
A.J. Jacobson, J.M. Newsam, D.C. Johnston, D.P. Goshorn, J.T.
Lewandowski, and M.S. Alvarez, Phys. Rev. B **39**, 254 (1989). * [11]
D. Goldschmidt and Y. Eckstein, Physica C **200**, 99 (1992). * [12]
J.L. Tallon and N.E. Flower, Physica C **204**, 237 (1993). * [13] H.
Zhang and H. Sato, Phys. Rev. Lett. **70**, 1697 (1993). * [14] D.
Goldschmidt, Y. Direktovitch, A. Knizhnik, and Y. Eckstein, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **71**, 3392 (1993). * [15] Y. Tokura, J.B. Torrance, T.C. Huang,
and A.I. Nazzal, Phys. Rev. B **38**, 7156 (1988). * [16] In the present
family, p = 0 when y = 6.75. This should be compared to y = 6.5 in YBCO.
Since, however, the actual MI transition in YBCO occurs at an oxygen
content about 0.1 lower (i.e., at y = 6.4), we deliberately subtracted
this amount from y = 6.75 to obtain 6.65 for the expected MI transition
in the present family. * [17] J. Genossar, B. Fisher, I.O. Lelong, J.
Ashkenazi, and L. Patlagan, Physica C **157**, 320 (1989). * [18] B.
Fisher, J. Genossar, I.O. Lelong, A. Kessel, and J. Ashkenazi, J.
Supercond. **1**, 53 (1988); B. Fisher, J. Genossar, L. Patlagan, I.O.
Lelong, and J. Ashkenazi, Physica C **162-164**, 1207 (1989). * [19] J.
Ashkenazi, D. Vacaru, and C.G. Kuper, in _High-Temperature
Superconductivity_, edited by J. Ashkenazi _et al._ (Plenum, New York
1991), p. 569; J. Ashkenazi and C.G. Kuper, in _Studies of High
Temperature Superconductors_, edited by A. Narlikar (Nova Science, New
York, 1989), Vol. 3, p. 1. * [20] C.C. Tsuei, Physica A **168**, 238
(1990); D.M. Newns, H.R. Krishnamurthy, P.C. Pattnaik, C.C. Tsuei, C.C.
Chi, and C.L. Kane, Physica B **186-188**, 801 (1993). * [21] D.
Wagener, M. Buchgeister, W. Hiller, S.M. Hosseini, and K. Kopitzki,
Supercond. Sci. Technol. **4**, S211 (1991). * [22] D.B. Mitzi, P.T.
Feffer, J.M. Newsam, D.J. Webb, P. Klavins, A.J. Jacobson, and A.
Kapitulnik, Phys. Rev. B **38**, 6667 (1988). * [23] S.A. Sunshine, L.F.
Schneemeyer, J.V. Waszczak, D.W. Murphy, S. Miraglia, A. Santoro, and F.
Beech, J. Cryst. Growth **85**, 632 (1987). * [24] J.B. Goodenough,
Supercond. Sci. Technol. **3**, 26 (1990). * [25] D. Khomskii, J.
Supercond. **6**, 69 (1993).
