The c-axis transport properties are powerful fields of investigation
because they provide insight into the nature of the normal state and the
origins of the anomalous superconducting properties of highly
anisotropic, layered superconductors. The occurrence of a maximum in the
temperature dependence of the c-axis resistivity near the edge of the
superconducting transition is a common feature of the cuprates or
organic superconductors.1,2 This peak was observed to have a strong
field dependence with its position shifting to lower temperatures when
the field increased.3-5 Although this has unambiguously been seen in
bismuth6-8 and in thallium9-based compounds, the situation is less clear
in Y-Ba-Cu-O (Refs. 10,11) and mercury12-based compounds.

The c-axis resistivity peak seems to be closely related to the
anisotropy and to the doping level of the samples.13,14 Indeed, this
peak is very pronounced in highly anisotropic and/or underdoped samples
and is almost absent in overdoped samples having low anisotropy. Various
theories have been proposed regarding this topic, either considering
only the normal-state properties and describing the peak by means of
nonmetallic normal-state conduction mechanisms17,15-17 or treating the
normal and superconducting states together.3,18-20 In the latter,
Briceno et _al._3 and Gray and Kim20 account for the maximum of the
c-axis resistivity assuming a competition between the decrease of
quasiparticles tunneling with decreasing temperature (suppressed by the
superconducting gap below T_(c)) and the appearence of interlayer
currents due to Josephson-like shorts in magnetic fields. Besides, Ioffe
et _al._18 and Dorin et _al._19 have evoked the role of superconducting
fluctuations. This fluctuation scenario indeed gives satisfactory
results and matches the experimental behavior in many papers.5,8,21 The
authors of the theory have shown that the main effect of these
fluctuations is to create a virtual gap in the electronic spectrum which
reduces the quasiparticle density of states (DOS), and thus, decreases
the one-electron conductivity at the edge of the superconducting
transition. The c-axis resistivity peak is then induced by the negative
contribution to conductivity arising from this fluctuation reduction of
DOS.

Measurements of the magnetoconductivity,
Δσ=σ(B, T) − σ(0, T)=1/ρ(B, T) − 1/ρ(0, T) is a great experimental
technique to investigate the superconducting fluctuations and related
problems such as the singular negative magnetoresistivity.10,11,22
Comparison with theory19 does not involve assumptions concerning either
a clean or a dirty state, or a strong or a weak pair-breaking regime of
the material. Thus, a quantitative analysis can give reliable estimates
of parameters such as the phase pair-breaking lifetime (τ_(Φ)), the
scattering lifetime (τ), and the Fermi velocity (υ_(F)). This may allow
us to discuss the nature of the impurity state, the impurity assisted
character of the c-axis conductivity, and the pairing state in
high-temperature superconductors HTSC’s.

In the present study, we have measured c-axis resistivity under various
magnetic fields for two compounds: (T1, Hg)2Ba2Ca2Cu3O10+ δ (T1 2223)
and (Hg, Cu)Ba2CuO4+ δ (Hg 1201). For Tl 2223, the magnetoconductivity
shows a change of sign from positive near T_(c) to negative above T_(c),
whereas such an anomaly is not observed for Hg 1201. We account for this
difference by considering the fluctuation-induced decrease in the normal
density of states, as evoked by Dorin et _al._19 and which is known to
be strongly dependent on the interlayer coupling.

Crystal growth of (Tl, Hg)2Ba2Ca2Cu3O10+ δ and (Hg, Cu)Ba2CuO4+ δ is
reported elsewhere.12,23 These crystals have a doping level close to the
optimum with respect to their critical temperatures. For each phase, two
high-quality crystals were extracted from the batches. They are denoted
as HgA and HgB for Hg 1201 and TIA and TIB for Tl 2223. This will allow
us to check the correctness of our analysis for each phase by showing
that our results are not sample dependent.

The crystals, which had typical dimensions 1 x 1 x 0.1 mm5, were
contacted in the direct cross configuration. The measured R_(c) was
transformed to ρ_(c) using the crystal dimensions; this has been shown
to yield reliable values of ρ_(c) in comparison to more sophisticated
multiterminal configurations.[24, 25] Indeed, owing to the large
anisotropy, the planes perpendicular to the current flow can be regarded
as equipotential surfaces making a decomposition analysis unnecessary.
Gold wires were attached to the "evaporated-silver stripes" with silver
paint. The samples were then annealed in air at 400degC for 10 min.

The c-axis resistivity was measured as a function of temperature at a
series of fixed fields (B∥c∥I). Distinct behaviors are shown for Tl 2223
and Hg 1201 (Figs. 1 and 2, respectively). For the Tl 2223, a pronounced
maximum of resistivity at zero field and a strong shift of the zero
resistance temperature in magnetic fields (ΔT_(c)^(∼)70 K for B = 7 T)
are observed. In addition, a large field-induced broadening of the
zero-field resistivity peak is seen. A smaller maximum is shown for Hg
1201 and the broadening is not as marked as in the above case. As
developed below, such a difference and its consequences in terms of
magnetoconductivity may be understood in the framework of the DOS
fluctuation contribution to conductivity.

Hereafter, this study is focused on magnetoconductivity data.
Experimentally, a striking but well-known behavior is observed for Tl
2223: a change of sign occurs for both samples TIA and TlB. (see for
instance Fig. 3 for sample TIA measured at various fields). This
anomalous magnetoconductivity is a common feature of very anisotropic
materials such as Bi 2212.[11, 22] It has to be pointed out that
although Y-Ba-Cu-O usually shows a weaker maximum in the c-axis
resistivity, a change of sign in the measured magnetoconductivity may
also be observed.[10] Hg 1201, like Y-Ba-Cu-O, exhibits a rather small
peak. However, for both studied crystals (HgA and HgB), no change of
sign is evidenced.

As it was shown in the framework of a Gaussian model developed by Ioffe
_et al._,[18] and Dorin _et al._,[19]c-axis conductivity fluctuations in
high-temperature superconductivity is comprised of four terms. The
direct contribution, initially proposed by Aslamasov and Larkin
(AL),[26] is due to the acceleration in an electric field of short-lived
Cooper pairs in thermal nonequilibrium. On the basis of various
conditions, alternative expressions of this contribution have been
derived.[27, 28] The DOS contribution arises from corrections to the
normal quasiparticle density of states owing to fluctuations of normal
quasiparticles into the superconducting state. This contribution is
expected to be negative in sign since the DOS contribution in a magnetic
field causes a decrease of resistivity. It is possible to observe a
negative-fluctuation-induced c-axis magnetoresistance in the temperature
region where the DOS contribution exceeds the positive AL one. The
regular and anomalous Maki-Thompson (MT) contributions, respectively,
result from the scattering of the normal-state particles and the
superconducting pairs.[19, 28] Those contributions are usually small and
in the following, the main issue is to know the relevancy of this
contribution to describe the experimental results since they are not
considered in many papers.[29, 30] In this paper, the interactions of
the magnetic field with electron spins leading to a Zeeman effect are
neglected. Finally, the fluctuation magnetoconductivity is given by

$$\Delta\,\sigma_{c} = \Delta\,\sigma_{c}^{\rm AL} + \Delta\,\sigma_{c}^{\rm DOS} + \Delta\,\sigma_{c}^{\rm MT(reg)} + \Delta\,\sigma_{c}^{\rm MT(an)}\,,$$

where
$\Delta\,\sigma_{c}^{\rm AL} = \sigma_{c}^{\rm AL} (B,T) - \sigma_{c}^{\rm AL} (0,T)$,
etc ... .

The weak-field expression of Ref. [18] is valid for our field strength
in Tl 2223 and Hg 1201. The resulting expressions for the four terms are
then

$$\Delta\,\sigma_{c}^{\rm AL} (B,T) = - \frac{e^{2}s}{32\,\eta\hbar}\Bigg{[}\frac{\beta^{2}r^{2}(\epsilon + r/2)}{32[\epsilon(\epsilon + r)]^{5/2}}\Bigg{]},$$

$$\Delta\,\sigma_{c}^{\rm DOS} (B,T) = \frac{e^{2}s\kappa}{16\,\eta\hbar}\Bigg{[}\frac{\beta^{2}(\epsilon + r/2)}{24[\epsilon(\epsilon + r)]^{3/2}}\Bigg{]},$$

Figure 1: Normalized c-axis resistivity vs temperature at different
magnetic fields for Tl 2223 (Sample A and Sample B).

Figure 3: Magnetoconductivity vs temperature at different magnetic
fields (7, 5, 3, and 1 T) for Tl 2223 (Sample A).

Figure 2: Normalized c-axis resistivity vs temperature at different
magnetic fields for Hg 1201 (Sample A and Sample B).

$$\Delta\sigma_{c}^{{\rm MT}({\rm reg})}(B,T) = \frac{e^{2}sr\widetilde{\kappa}}{16\,\eta h}\biggl{[}\frac{\beta^{2}r}{48[\,\epsilon(\epsilon\!+\!r\,)^{3}\,]},$$

$$\Delta\sigma_{c}^{{\rm MT}({\rm\alpha})}(B,T) = - \frac{e^{2}s}{16\,\eta h}\biggl{[}\frac{\beta^{2}r^{2}(\epsilon + \gamma\,+\,r)\{\epsilon(\epsilon\!+\!r\,)+\gamma(\gamma\,+\,r)\!+\![\,\epsilon(\epsilon\!+\!r\,)\gamma(\gamma\,+\,r)\,]^{1/2}\}}{96[\,\epsilon(\epsilon\!+\!r\,)\gamma(\gamma\,+\,r)\,]^{3/2}[\,[\,\epsilon(\epsilon\!+\!r\,)\,]^{1/2}\,+\,[\,\gamma(\gamma\,+\,r)\,]^{1/2}\}\biggr{]}.$$

In these formulas, e is the electron charge, s is the lattice period
along the c axis, and

$$\eta = - \frac{v_{F}^{2}\tau^{2}}{2}\biggl{[}\Psi\biggl{(}\frac{1}{2}+\frac{\hbar}{4\,\pi k_{B}T\tau}\biggr{)} - \Psi\biggl{[}\frac{1}{2}\biggr{]}-\frac{\hbar}{4\,\pi k_{B}T\tau}\Psi^{{}^{\prime}}\biggl{[}\frac{1}{2}\biggr{]}\biggr{]},$$

where v_(F) is the Fermi velocity parallel to the layers, t is the
quasiparticle scattering time, _Ps_(_x_) and _Ps’_(_x_) are the digamma
function and its derivative. r = 4 g _J_2_k_B_/_k_2_k_B_2 is the usual
anisotropy parameter characterizing the dimensionality of the
fluctuations and J is an effective interlayer energy in Kelvin. b = 4 g
_eB_/_h_ and e = ln(_T_/_T__c_). The constant k and κ̃ are ruled by the
impurity concentration and are function of t _T_:

$$\kappa = \frac{-\Psi^{{}^{\prime}}(\frac{1}{2} + \hbar/4\,\pi k_{B}T\tau) + (\hbar/2\,\pi k_{B}T\tau)\Psi^{{}^{\prime\prime}}(\frac{1}{2})}{\pi^{2}[\Psi(\frac{1}{2} + \hbar/4\,\pi k_{B}T\tau)-\Psi(\frac{1}{2})-(\hbar/4\,\pi k_{B}T\tau)\Psi^{{}^{ \prime}}(\frac{1}{2})\,]},$$

$$\widetilde{\kappa} = \frac{-\Psi^{{}^{\prime}}(\frac{1}{2} + \hbar/4\,\pi k_{B}T\tau) + \Psi^{{}^{\prime}}(\frac{1}{2}) + (\hbar/4\,\pi k_{B}T\tau)\Psi^{{}^{\prime\prime}}(\frac{1}{2})}{\pi^{2}[\Psi(\frac{1}{2} + \hbar/4\,\pi k_{B}T\tau)-\Psi(\frac{1}{2})-(\hbar/4\,\pi k_{B}T\tau)\Psi^{{}^{\prime}}(\frac{1}{2})\,]},$$

and

$$\gamma = \frac{2\,\eta}{v_{F}^{2}\tau\tau_{\phi}},$$

where t is the pair-breaking lifetime. Since e ≪1 is assumed in the
theory, the normal state magnetoconductivity can be neglected since the
fluctuations are large close to T_(c) . It has to be pointed out that
the theory only accounts for a Gaussian conductivity fluctuation arising
above the mean-field superconducting transition temperature. The
critical fluctuations and the effects of the vortex structure on the
broadening of the transition are not considered in the above
description.

The first step of our analysis is to calculate numerically the
prediction of the theory in order to compare with experimental data. In
the comparison we took s = _c_/2 = 1.5 nm for Tl 2223 and s = c = 0.95
nm for Hg 1201. In the following, the result of the analysis is shown
for 3 T. T_(c) was obtained from the midpoint of the resistive
transitions and we assumed t and t0 x1/_T_. Figures 4(a) and Fig. 4(b)
(for samples TIA and TlB, respectively) show that the weak-field
theoretical predictions [19] for magnetoconductivity agree with
experimental data when including the fours contributions: AL, DOS, and
both MT terms. In particular, the change of sign is obtained at the
right temperature and the magnitude of the minimum is perfectly
predicted. [See enlargements in the insets of Fig. 4a and Fig. 4(b)].
This agreement is obtained for the two samples (TIA and TlB) using the
following parameters: J = 4 K, _t_(100 K) = t0 (100 K)   5.1 ×10⁻¹⁴s for
both TIA and TlB and v_(F) = 4.4x106 cm/s or the latter and 4.2x106 cm/s
for the former. Such values can be trusted since there exists a very
weak discrepancy from sample to sample. The same kind of analysis has
been performed on the positive magnetoconductivity of Hg 1201. In this
case, no change of sign is observed suggesting a vanishing (DOS+MT
regular) contribution compared to the positive (AL+MT anomalous) one.
This is indeed checked by numerical calculations where the (DOS+MT
regular) contribution is shown to be negligibly small. On Fig. 5, the
prediction of the AL+MT anomalous contributions are com

Figure 4: (a) Magnetoconductivity vs temperature at 3 T for Tl 2223
(Sample A). The solid line represents the theoretical calculation with
parameters given in the text. The symbols are the experimental
magnetoconductivity Δσ_(c) (_B_ ∥c∥I). (b) Magnetoconductivity vs
temperature at 3 T for Tl 2223 (Sample B). The solid line represents the
theoretical calculation with parameters given in the text. The symbols
are the experimental magnetoconductivity Δσ_(c) (_B_ ∥c∥I).

pared with experiments. As expected, the use of this sole contribution
gives a satisfactory result using the parameters : J = 40 K, _t_(100 K)
= 2 x 10-14 s, t0(100 K) = 2

× 10-13 s, and _vF_ = 2 x 106 cm/s for both HgA and HgB samples. Once
again, no discrepancy is observed in the values of the parameters
between samples.

The values of the obtained parameters cannot be directly compared with
those obtained in other experiments on Tl 2223 and Hg 1201 single
crystals. However, _c_-axis transport measurements on Bi-Sr-Ca-Cu-O 2212
gave t to be in the range of 2 - 3 x 10-14 s for single crystals and
thin films; _t_b values varied from 2 x 10-13 s to 5 x 10-13 s.
6,8,13,21 In-plane measurements of Bi-Sr-Ca-Cu-O 2212 single-crystal
whiskers[31] estimated _t_ab  7.5 x 10-14 s, i.e., an order of magnitude
lower than the above results. Very few results are reported for
Y-Ba-Cu-O; nevertheless, t is within the range 3 -5 x 10-15 s for single
crystals.[10] An important discrepancy is found in the literature for J
values. J = 40 K and J = 15 - 20 K were reported for Bi-Sr-Ca-Cu-O thin
films.[13, 6, 8] A value of 4 K was given for an optimized single
crystal.[21] Such scattering reflects the differences in the doping
level of the various samples. Finally, our results for Tl 2223 and Hg
1201 show an overall agreement with values obtained from the literature.

Let us now focus on the pair-breaking life time _t_b. _t_b only enters
in the very small MT anomalous contribution; thus the uncertainty on
this parameter is expected to be large. Figure 6 shows the sensitivity
of the overall result upon the variation of _t_b for Tl 2223 and Hg
1201, respectively. As noted above, the best descriptions are obtained
for _t_b(100 K) = 5 x 10-13 s   _t_(100 K) for Tl 2223 and _t_b(100 K) =
2 x 10-13 s for Hg 1201. However, if we further decrease the values of
_t_b by an order of magnitude, the calculation is not appreciably
modified. This is partly explained by the fact that _t_b directly
controls the magnitude of the anomalous MT contribution which is
expected to be several times smaller than the other contributions, such
as AL or DOS. Hence, the determined values have to be considered as
upper limits for this parameter. This result suggests that the best
agreement with experiments, for Tl 2223 and Hg 1201 materials, is
attained with moderate pair breaking (4 t _k_ g _t_b_ _T_c/_h_ 10 and 4
t _k_ g _t_b_ _T_c/_h_ 30, respectively), close to the weak limit,
rather than strong pair breaking. As a matter of fact, the regular and
anomalous MT contributions are relatively small. This is evidenced in
Fig. 7 where the different contributions are separated for Tl 2223. The
overall magnitude of the anomalous MT contribution is small because of
the weak pair-breaking mechanism. Obviously, this is also true for Hg
1201. Such a result is consistent with other experiments that showed the
AL term alone adequately describes the fluctuation contribution to the
in-plane magnetoconductivity in Bi-Sr-Ca-Cu-O.[29]

Another important parameter that can be extracted from this analysis is
the in-plane scattering time t. As emphasized above, the theory is valid
for an arbitrary impurity concentration making the determination of t
extremely reliable. For samples TlA and TlB, as well as for the HgA and
HgB, an intermediate case is achieved (4 t _k_ g _t_ _T_c/_h_ 10 for Tl
2223 and 4 t _k_ g _t_ _T_c/_h_ 3 for Hg 1201). From results for J , t,
and _vF_, and using the relation ξ_(ab)²(T = 0 K) = _e_(_T_c), one
calculates values of _x__(ab) and l, where _x__(ab) and l are the BCS co

Figure 5: Magnetoconductivity vs temperature at 3T for Hg 1201 (Samples
A and B). The solid line represents the theoretical calculation with
parameters given in the text. The symbols are the experimental
magnetoconductivity Δσ_(c) (_B_ ∥ c ∥ I).

Figure 6: Variation of the 3 T theoretical calculation of
magnetoconductivity (AL + MT anomalous + DOS + MT regular) for different
values of the phase pair-breaking time. The other parameters are given
in the text. Main panel: Tl 2223 (Sample B). Inset: Hg 1201 (Sample A).

Figure 7: Decomposition of the calculation of theoretical
magnetoconductivity for Tl 2223 (Sample A) at 3 T with parameters are
given in the text. The different contributions are shown. Long dashed
line: AL contribution; short dashed line: MT anomalous contribution;
dotted line: DOS + MT regular contributions; solid line: total
magnetoconductivity.

herence length and the intralayer mean free path, respectively. One
obtains ξ_(ab)(0) ≈ 2.1 nm for Tl 2223 and ξ_(ab)(0) ≈ 0.6 nm for Hg
1201. This gives for both samples _1/ξ_(ab) ≈ 1_. These results agree
with other experiments showing that HTSC single crystals are not
extremely clean when _1/ξ_(ab)_ is of the order unity. So, the use of
the clean-limit expression (_1 ≫ ξ_(ab)_) is not justified for these
materials.

As discussed above, our single crystals (Tl 2223 and Hg 1201) show
moderate pair breaking with an intermediate impurity concentration (far
from the usually assumed elemi limit case). In such a case, according to
Dorin _et al._[19], the effective interlayer tunneling rate is of the
order k_(B)²J²τ/ℏ² ≈ τ_(ϕ)⁻¹ ≈ τ⁻¹ and k_(B)²J²τ/ℏ² ≈ τ_(ϕ)⁻¹  < τ⁻¹,
respectively. This suggests that the phase coherence of paired
quasiparticles is destroyed before tunneling to the neighboring layers.
Moreover, in accordance with the Matthiesen rule, Dorin et _et al._[19]
assumed in their theory τ_(ϕ) ≥ τ. This assumption is fullfilled for Hg
1201, whereas Tl 2223 shows τ_(ϕ) = τ involving scattering processes
which break the time-reversal symmetry, as for example, localized
magnetic moments.

As seen previously, our materials (Tl 2223 and Hg 1201) are not vastly
different in terms of impurity concentrations and pair-breaking
mechanisms. Nevertheless, they exhibit basic differences regarding the
c-axis resistivity peak and magnetoconductivity. The important point is
that positive AL and MT anomalous contributions are smaller in materials
with higher anisotropy ratio Γ = (m_(c)/m_(ab))^(1/2); they are both
proportional to 1/Γ², while the negative DOS and MT regular are 1/Γ. The
out-of-plane coherence length can be calculated from
r(T_(c)) ≈ 4 ξ_(c)²(0)/s². One obtains ξ_(c)(0) ≈ 0.038 nm for Tl 2223
and ξ_(c)(0) ≈ 0.09 nm for Hg 1201. The resulting anisotropy ratio are
then Γ ≈ 55 for Tl 2223 and Γ ≈ 6 for Hg 1201. Those values are slightly
lower than results derived from other experiments (Γ ≈ 17 for Hg 1201
through angular-resolved magnetoconductivity [32] and Γ ≈ 70 for Tl 2223
from magnetization measurements [33]). Nevertheless, this unambiguously
demonstrates the more anisotropic nature of Tl 2223 as compared to Hg
1201. Hence, we argue that the negative magnetoresistivity, on the one
hand, and the great magnitude of the resistivity peak in Tl 2223
compared to Hg 1201, on the other hand, may be ascribed to the stronger
anisotropy of Tl 2223. According to the theory, the weak anisotropy of
Hg 1201 should involve vanishing DOS and MT regular contributions to
magnetoconductivity (both compounds are at their optimum doping level).
This is indeed verified by the experimental data where no change of sign
in the magnetoconductivity is observed. Consequently, this could imply
that the fluctuating scenario is not a universal explanation of the
sharp increase of the c-axis resistivity above T_(c) and that the
nonmetallic normal-state conduction mechanisms, such as activated
behavior of the normal-state resistivity, might be relevant in this
case. [14, 15, 34] This will be dealt with in a forthcoming paper.

In summary, we have analyzed the magnetoconductivity of Tl 2223 and Hg
1201 single crystals in terms of fluctuation conduction. The observed
change of sign for the anisotropic Tl 2223 is explained by considering
the density-of-states fluctuations. Hg 1201 does not show any anomaly in
its magnetoconductivity and only the AL contribution is necessary to
describe experimental data. This is in agreement with the low anisotropy
of this compound. Furthermore, the parameters deduced from this analysis
(τ is the quasiparticle scattering time and τ_(ϕ) is the pair-breaking
lifetime) suggest that our samples lie in the intermediate region
between clean and dirty limits. Moreover, the τ_(ϕ) results show that
the phase pair-breaking process has a moderate strength.

## References

* [*]Also at Universite Francois Rabelais, UFR Sciences et Techniques,
Parc Grandmont, 37200 Tours, France. * [2]A. A. Varlamov, G. Balestrino,
E. Milani, and D. Livanov, Ad. Phys. (to be published). * [3]S. Friemel,
C. Pasquier, and D. Jerome, Physica C **292**, 273 (1997). * [4]G.
Briceno, M. F. Crommie, and A. Zettl, Phys. Rev. Lett. **66**, 2164
(1991). * [5]G. Briceno, M. F. Crommie, and A. Zettl, Physica C **204**,
389 (1993) * [6]D. V. Livanov, E. Milani, G. Balestrino, and C. Arunta,
Phys. Rev. B **55**, R8701 (1997). * [7]G. Balestrino, M. Marinelli, E.
Milani, A. A. Varlamov, and L. Yu, Phys. Rev. B **47**, 6037 (1993). *
[8]J. H. Cho, M. P. Maley, H. Safar, J. Y. Coulter, and L. N.
Bulaevskii, Physica C **265**, 277 (1996). * [9]G. Balestrino, E.
Milani, C. Arunta, and A. A. Varlamov, Phys. Rev. B **54**, 3628
(1996). * [10]V. Hardy, A. Maignan, C. Marin, F. Warmont, and J.
Provost, Phys. Rev. B **56**, 130 (1997). * [11]J. An$\check{\rm a}$as,
W. Holm, Y. Eltsev, and O. Rapp, Phys. Rev. Lett. **77**, 2280 (1996). *
[12]Y.F. Yan, P. Malt, J. M. Harris, and N. P. Ong, Phys. Rev. B **52**,
R751 (1995). * [13]G. Villard, A. Daignere, and A. Maignan, J. Appl.
Phys. (to be published). * [14]G. Balestrino, E. Milani, and A. A.
Varlamov, Physica C **210**, 386 (1993). * [15]T. Watanabe, T. Fujii,
and A. Matsuda, Phys. Rev. Lett. **79**, 2113 (1997). * [16]A. A.
Abrikosov, Phys. Rev. B **52**, R7026 (1995). * [17]P. W. Anderson,
Science **268**, 1154 (1995). * [18]A. G. Rojo and K. Levin, Phys. Rev.
B **48**, 16 861 (1993). * [19]L. B. Ioffe, A. I. Larkin, A. A.
Varlamov, and L. Yu, Phys. Rev. B **47**, 8936 (1993). * [20]V. V.
Dorin, R. A. Klemm, A. A. Varlamov, A. I. Buzdin and D. V. Livanov,
Phys. Rev. B **48**, 12 951 (1993). * [21]K. E. Gray and D. H. Kim,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **70**, 1693 (1993). * [22]A. S. Nyematulin, A. A.
Varlamov, D. V. Livanov, G. Balestrino, and E. Milani, Phys. Rev. B
**53**, 3557 (1996). * [23]K. Hashimoto, K. Nakao, H. Kado, and N.
Koshizuka, Phys. Rev. B **53**, 892 (1996). * [24]C. Martin, A. Maignan,
and D. Thopart (unpublished). * [25]R. Bush, G. Ries, H. Werthner, and
G. Seaman-Ischenko, Phys. Rev. Lett. **69**, 522 (1992). * [26]D. Lopez,
G. Nieva, and F. de la Cruz, Phys. Rev. B **50**, 7219 (1994). * [27]L.
Aslamasov and A. I. Larkin, Sov. Phys. Solid State **10**, 875 (1968).

* [27] C. Baraduc, V. Pagnon, A. Buzdin, J. Y. Henry, and C. Ayache,
Phys. Lett. A **166**, 267 (1992). * [28] K. Maki, Prog. Theor. Phys.
**39**, 897 (1968); K. Maki and R. S. Thompson, Phys. Rev. B **39**,
2767 (1989). * [29] W. Lang, G. Heine, W. Kula, and R. Sobolewski, Phys.
Rev. B **51**, 9180 (1995); Physica C **245**, 69 (1995). * [30] A.
Pomar, M. V. Ramallo, J. Mosqueira, C. Torron, and F. Vidal, Phys. Rev.
B **54**, 7470 (1996). * [31] Y. I. Latyshev, O. Laborde, and P.
Monceau, Europhys. Lett. **29**, 495 (1995). * [32] G. Le Bras, L.
Fruchter, V. Vulcanescu, V. Viallet, A. Bertinotti, A. Forget, J.
Hammann, J. F. Marucco, and D. Colson, Physica C **271**, 205 (1996). *
[33] V. Hardy, A. Wahl, A. Ruyter, A. Maignan, C. Martin, L. Coudrier,
J. Provost, and Ch. Simon, Physica C **232**, 347 (1994). * [34] Y. F.
Yan, P. Matl, J. M. Harris, and N. P. Ong, Phys. Rev. B **52**, R751
(1995).
