# Suppression of superconductivity in Sr2RuO4 caused by defects

Z. Q. Mao*

Department of Physics, Kyoto University, Kyoto 606-8502, Japan

and Core Research for Evolutional Science and Technology, Japan Science
and Technology Corporation (CREST-JST), Kawaguchi, Saitama 332-0012,
Japan

Y. Mori

Department of Physics, Kyoto University, Kyoto 606-8502, Japan

Y. Maeno

Department of Physics, Kyoto University, Kyoto 606-8502, Japan

and Core Research for Evolutional Science and Technology, Japan Science
and Technology Corporation (CREST-JST), Kawaguchi, Saitama 332-0012,
Japan

21 September 1998

###### Abstract

We have investigated depairing effects in Sr2RuO4, the unconventional
superconductor in the layered perovskite structure. We prepared crystals
of Sr2RuO4 with very low levels of impurity elements, and systematically
controled their superconducting transition temperature T_(c) ranging
from 1.5 to 0.6 K by adjustments of crystal growth conditions. The
dependence of T_(c) on the residual resistivity ρ₀ in these crystals
suggests that the defects are strong pair breakers, in addition to
impurities. We further characterized the effects of pair breaking in
this unconventional superconductor. We found that the in-plane coherence
length ξ_(ab)(0) evaluated from H_(c2)(T) is inversely proportional to
T_(c), and decreases with increasing mean free path l; the latter
behavior is opposite to that of conventional superconductors. In
addition, we examined the temperature dependence of H_(c21c) which
substantially deviates from the BCS theory and even from a recent theory
of a p-wave superconductor. [S0163-1829(99)11225-6]

## 1 Introduction

The superconductor Sr2RuO4 (Ref. 1) shares the same layered perovskite
structure as the La-based cuprate superconductors. More and more
experiments [2, 3, 4, 5] confirm that Sr2RuO4 is a non-s-wave
superconductor and is most probably a p-wave superconductor. One of the
most powerful pieces of evidence is the nonmagnetic impurity effect
reported by Mackenzie _et al._[2] This finding indicated that the
nonmagnetic impurity, Al, strongly suppresses T_(c) of Sr2RuO4, which
can be interpreted well by the modified pair-breaking theory of
Abrikosov-Gorkov (AG).[6] For unconventional superconductors, the same
mechanism of suppression is expected to be valid for the lattice
defects. Additionally, previous experiments showed that the crystals
with the same impurity level of Al might have quite different T_(c) and
that the residual resistivity ρ₀ is a better controlling parameter of
T_(c).[2] These two points motivated us to clarify the additional
pair-breaking effect due to lattice defects for Sr2RuO4.

In this paper, we have investigated the influence of lattice defects
also on the upper critical field H_(c2)(T) and characterized how the
coherence length ξ varies with T_(c). The relation between ξ and the
mean-free path l will be discussed. Furthermore, we adopted a recent
theory[7] of a p-wave superconductor to examine the temperature
dependence of H_(c2) along the interlayer c direction (H_(c2|tc)) for
the crystal with the highest T_(c), and compared it with the BCS theory
prediction.

## 2 Experiment

All the crystals used in this study were grown using a floating-zone
image furnace. The feed rods, containing 15

The T_(c) and H_(c2|tc)(T) of the crystals were determined by ac
susceptibility using a commercial ³He refrigerator with a 2-T magnet.
The ac susceptibility was measured by a mutual-inductance method with an
ac field of 0.1 mT at a frequency of 1000 Hz, applied in the same
direction as the dc field. The misalignment of the crystals for the
H_(c2|tc) measurement was less than 4^(∘). Since H_(c2)(T) is much less
sensitive to the field direction for H|tc compared with H|ab, the
misalignment of less than 4^(∘) will not have a substantial influence on
the value of H_(c2|tc)(T). The resistivity was measured by a standard
four-probe method.

## III Results and discussions

Figure 1 shows the ac susceptibility data of some typical as-grown and
annealed crystals. C1, C2, and C3 are as-grown crystals, while C1^(′),
C2^(′), and C3^(′) are obtained by annealing C1, C2, and C3 at 1500
^(∘)C. Here, we define T_(c) as the intersection of the linear
extrapolation of the most rapidly changing part of χ^(′) and that of
normal state χ^(′). From Fig. 1, it can be seen that the enhancement in
T_(c) by annealing for the crystal with as-grown T_(c) of 1.408 K is
much less than that for the crystals with T_(c) = 0.618 K and 0.953 K.
This indicates that the defects in the crystals with lower T_(c) are
more severe than that in the crystals with higher T_(c). The annealing
reduces the defects in the crystals with lower T_(c) to some extent.
Therefore we can say that the defects are really the main factor to
determine T_(c) for crystals with very low levels of impurity elements.

Y. Inoue _et al.[8]_ have studied features of microstructure in Sr₂RuO₄.
They pointed out that the defects in Sr₂RuO₄ are mainly located in the
modulated structure along the c direction and the layered defects
distributed locally. Especially for the crystal with much lower T_(c) (∼
0.4 K), a lot of modulated structures with various periods were found.

We measured the resistivity of some as-grown and annealed crystals with
different T_(c) ranging from 1.5 to 0.6 K. Figure 2 shows the dependence
of T_(c) on residual resistivity ρ₀ for these crystals (open circles).
Solid circles were obtained by crystals with different amount of
impurities.[2] The crystals for points 3 through 6 are cleaved from the
same region of a crystal block and annealed at four different
temperatures ranging from 1200 ^(∘)C to 1500 ^(∘)C. The crystals for
points 9 and 10 were cut from the different regions of the same batch
and they had the same T_(c). The ρ₀ was determined by fitting the
resistivity data between 4.2 and 25 K to the formula ρ = ρ₀ + AT². As
mentioned above, this impurity suppression on T_(c) (solid circles) can
be fitted well by the modified AG function,[2] which is given by the
solid line in Fig. 2. For the open circles, we can see clearly that the
decrease of T_(c) follows almost the same tendency as the fitting curve
with increasing ρ₀ except for point 10. It is unlikely that the
deviation of this point from the fitting curve is caused by measurement
errors, because the samples for points 9 and 10 had almost the same room
temperature resistivity. Hence, we believe that the deviation of point
10 from the fitting curve actually comes from the inhomogeneity of
defects for crystals with such low T_(c). This kind of inhomogeneity
characteristic of defects has been observed by transmission electron
microscope, as remarked above. We therefore conclude that the lattice
defect is also an additional strong pair breaker in addition to impurity
elements in Sr₂RuO₄.

To study the influence of defects on H_(c2)(T) and characterize how
ξ_(ab)(0) varies with T_(c) , we measured H_(c2▫c)(T) for eight samples
with different T_(c) by ac susceptibility. Figure 3 shows a typical set
of ac susceptibility data measured under different external dc magnetic
fields for the sample with the highest T_(c) (T_(c) = 1.489 K). The
T_(c) definition used here is the same as the one we described above.
Figure 4 shows the data of H_(c2▫c)(T) for six samples. As seen in Fig.
4, the H_(c2)(T) curves simply shifts downward with decreasing T_(c) .
Since the lowest temperature attained with our ³He refrigerator is ∼0.3
K, we do not have any data points for temperatures lower than 0.3 K. It
is not easy to estimate H_(c2▫c)(0) with high precision directly just by
extrapolation of the experimental data points. Therefore, to estimate
H_(c2)(0) for each curve, we adopted the following formula,

H_(c2)(0) = −0.6795(dH_(c2)/dT)_(T − T_(c))T_(c) ,
(1)

which is derived in a recent theory of a p-wave superconductor.[7] This
equation shows only a little difference

Figure 2: Dependence of T_(c) on residual resistivity ρ₀. Open circles:
results from the present work; solid circles: data for impurity effect
taken from Ref. [2]; the solid line: a fit of the Abrikosov-Gor’kov
pair-breaking function to the solid circles (Ref. [2]); the meaning of
numbers 1–10 are described in the text.

Figure 1: ac susceptibility of some as-grown and annealed crystals of
Sr₂RuO₄. C1, C2, and C3: as-grown crystals; C1^(′), C2^(′), and C3^(′)
obtained by annealing C1, C2, and C3 at 1500 ^(∘)C for three days in
air. χ^(′): in-phase component and χ^(′′): out-of-phase, dissipative
component of the susceptibility.

in the coefficient from the Werthamer-Helfand-Hohenberg (WHH) formula
[9] for conventional superconductors,

H_(c2)(0) = −0.693(dH_(c2)/dT)_(T − T_(c))T_(c) .

The open symbols shown on the vertical axis of Fig. 4 display H_(c2)(0)
estimated by Eq. (1). From the rough extrapolation of the experiment
curves, we found that these estimated values of H_(c2)(0) are in
reasonable agreement except for the sample with the highest T_(c) . To
evaluate the error in this estimation, we used Eq. (1) to check the
H_(c2ln )(T) data thoroughly measured by Yoshida _et al._[10], Mackenzie
_et al._[11], and Riseman _et al._[12]_ where the precise estimation of
H_(c2ln )(0) is available from the extrapolation of experimental curves
because they extended the measurements to much lower temperatures (<0.3
K). We found that the discrepancy between the H_(c2ln )(0) obtained by
theoretical estimation and the one gained by extrapolation from
experimental curve is less than ∼2 mT. However, for the sample with the
highest T_(c) , the error for the estimated H_(c2)(0) is appreciably
larger than 2 mT. So we just take the intersection of smooth
extrapolation of the experimental curve and the vertical axis as the
H_(c2)(0) for this sample.

Figure 5(a) gives the estimated H_(c2ln )(0) data as a function of T_(c)
. These H_(c2ln )(0) data can be fitted well with temperature squared
dependence as shown by the broken curve, i.e.,

H_(c2ln )(0) = aT_(c)²,

where a = 0.0 29 T/K². Using the Ginzburg-Landau (GL) formula for an
anisotropic three-dimensional superconductor,

$$H_{c2\ln}(0) = \frac{\phi_{0}}{2\pi\xi_{ab}(0)^{2}},$$

where ϕ₀ is the flux quantum and ξ_(ab)(0) is the in-plane GL coherence
length, we obtained the relation between the experimental ξ_(ab)(0) and
T_(c) ,

ξ_(ab)(0) = (ϕ₀/2πa)^(1/2)(1/T_(c)).

Such variation of ξ_(ab)(0) with T_(c) , shown by the broken curve, can
be seen clearly from Fig. 5(b), where the previous data of Yoshida _et
al._[10] and Mackenzie _et al._[11] are also included (open symbols);
their data also follow the same tendency as the fitting curve.

For a BCS-type superconductor, the intrinsic coherence length ξ₀ is
proportional to 1/T_(c) , i.e.,

ξ₀ = αℏ p_(F)/k_(B)T_(c) ,

Figure 4: Temperature dependence of H_(c2) for six crystals of Sr₂RuO₄
with different T_(c) . The open symbols are H_(c2)(0) estimated by a
recent theory of p-wave superconductivity (Ref. 7).

Figure 5: (a) The estimated H_(c2ln )(0) as a function of T_(c) ; (b)
the in-plane coherence length ξ_(ab)(0) as a function of T_(c) . The
open circles are the previous data of Yoshida _et al._ (Ref. 9) and
Mackenzie _et al._ (Ref. 10). Broken curves are fits to the data
described in the text.

Figure 3: Temperature dependence of ac susceptibility of Sr₂RuO₄
measured under different external dc magnetic fields for the sample with
the highest T_(c) (T_(c) = 1.489 K).

where α = 0.18, ℏ = h/2π as h is the plank constant and r_(F) is the
Fermi velocity. Substituting Eq. (6) into Eq. (5) and using the average
Fermi velocity measured by quantum oscillations,[13] we can estimate
that α = 0.14 for Sr₂RuO₄, which is about 20

We shall next discuss the relation between the ξ_(ab)(0) and the
mean-free-path l. As shown by Eq. (5), ξ_(ab)(0) of Sr₂RuO₄ can be
estimated once T_(c) is given. On the other hand, the mean-free-path l
can be estimated from the residual resistivity ρ₀ using the following
expression,

$$l\!=\!\frac{2\,\pi\hbar\,d}{e^{2}\rho_{0}\!\sum\limits_{i}\,k_{F}^{i}},$$
(7)

where d is the interlayer spacing of 6.4 A, and the sum of k_(F) is over
the three Fermi surface sheets i = α, β, and γ, which are known from
quantum oscillation measurements.[13] Therefore, from the dependence of
T_(c) on ρ₀, the fitting solid line in Fig. 2, we can deduce the l
dependence of ξ_(ab)(0) in terms of Eqs. (5) and (7). This is shown by
the solid line and extrapolated dotted line in Fig. 6. The solid circles
are experimental points, and the open circles correspond to points 3-7
in Fig. 2, the ξ_(ab)(0) of which was not measured but estimated from
Eq. (5).

The results shown in Fig. 6 show that ξ_(ab)(0) decreases with
increasing l and the intrinsic coherence length ξ₀ is ∼720 A. This type
of relation between the ξ_(ab)(0) and l observed in Sr₂RuO₄ is
completely different from that in conventional superconductors, in which
Pippard coherence length $\xi_{\rm P}$ [comparable to $\xi_{\rm GL}(0)$]
and l are related by

$$1/\xi_{\rm P}\!=\!1/\xi_{0}\!+\!1/\beta l,$$
(8)

as shown by the dashed line in Fig. 6, where β is a constant of the
order of unity. For conventional superconductors, ξ_(p) decreases as l
decreases. In contrast, ξ_(ab)(0) in Sr₂RuO₄ increases rapidly as l
decreases to ∼900 A. The reason why Eq. (8) is not applicable to Sr₂RuO₄
is simple, since Eq. (8) is based on the assumption that T_(c) changes
little with l, whereas for Sr₂RuO₄T_(c) strongly depends on l. In fact
T_(c) as well as H_(c2)(0) vanishes at l ∼ ξ₀, thus resulting in the
divergence in ξ_(ab)(0). Therefore the ξ − l relation for Sr₂RuO₄
represented in Fig. 6 is a manifestation of unconventional
superconductivity.

Finally, let us examine the temperature dependence of H_(c2|c) and
contrast it with the expectation for the isotropic p-wave
superconductor,[7] as well as with the BCS prediction. Figure 7 shows
the deviation of H_(c2|c) from T² dependence for the crystal with the
highest T_(c) (1.489 K). The deviation curves predicted by both the
p-wave and BCS theories for the case of weak coupling are displayed in
this figure as well. For conventional s-wave superconductors, H_(c2)
only shows a smaller deviation from the T² dependence with the maximum
deviation magnitude less than 4

## IV Conclusion

We have studied the suppression of T_(c) in Sr₂RuO₄ caused by lattice
defects. Our results revealed that the defect is also a strong pair
breaker like a nonmagnetic impurity element. We further found that
ξ_(ab)(0) evaluated from H_(c2)(T) is proportional to 1/T_(c) . The
in-plane coherence length ξ_(ab)(0) decreases with increasing l, which
is opposite to the relation of
$1/\xi_{\rm P}\!=\!1/\xi_{0}\!+\!1/\beta l$ for conventional
superconductors. This anomalous behavior reflects the characteristic of
unconventional superconductivity of Sr₂RuO₄. In addition, we found that
the deviation of H_(c2)(T) from the T² dependence signifi

Figure 6: The coherence length ξ_(ab)(0) as a function of the
mean-free-path l. The solid and extrapolated dotted lines are deduced
from the solid line in Fig. 2 in terms of Eqs. (5) and (7). The solid
circles: experimental points [measurements of both H_(c2)(T) and ρ₀ were
performed on the same sample for the three points]; the open circles:
corresponding to points 3–7 in Fig. 2, the ξ_(ab)(0) of which was not
measured but estimated from Eq. (5); the dashed line: the relation of
ξ_(ab)(0) and l for conventional superconductors.

Figure 7: Deviation of H_(c2|c) from the T² dependence for the crystal
with the highest T_(c) (1.489 K) (closed circles). The dotted and dashed
lines are, respectively, the deviation curves expected by a recent
theory for a p-wave superconductor (Ref. [7]) and by the BCS for the
case of weak coupling.

cantly differs from the BCS prediction, and also has a substantial
difference from the present theoretical expectation for a p-wave
superconductor. The orbital dependence of superconductivity must
probably be taken into account in the current p-wave theory to give
final interpretation on this large discrepancy.

###### Acknowledgements.

We are very grateful to T. Ishiguro for his support throughout this
work. We also thank S. NishiZaki for his technical support; A. P.
Mackenzie and E. M. Forgan for useful discussions. _Advances in
Superconductivity VIII_, Proceedings of the Eighth International
Symposium on Superconductivity, edited by H. Hayakawa and Y. Enomoto
(Springer-Verlag, Tokyo, 1996), Vol. 1, p. 243. * [9] N. R. Werthamer,
E. Helfand, and P. C. Hohenberg, Phys. Rev. **147**, 295 (1966). * [10]
K. Yoshida, Y. Maeno, S. Nishizaki, and T. Fujita, Physica C **263**,
519 (1996). * [11] A. P. Mackenzie, S. R. Julian, A. J. Diver, G. G.
Lonzarich, N. E. Hussey, Y. Maeno, S. Nishizaki, and T. Fujita, Physica
C **263**, 510 (1996). * [12] T. M. Riseman, P. G. Kealey, E. M. Forgan,
A. P. Mackenzie, L. M. Galvin, A. W. Tyler, S. L. Lee, C. Ager, D. McK.
Paul, C. M. Aegerter, R. Cubitt, Z. Q. Mao, S. Akima, and Y. Maeno,
Nature (London) **396**, 242 (1998). * [13] A. P. Mackenzie, S. R.
Julian, A. J. Diver, G. J. McMullan, M. P. Ray, G. G. Lonzarich, Y.
Maeno, S. Nishizaki, and T. Fujita, Phys. Rev. Lett. **76**, 3786
(1996). * [14] D. F. Agterberg, T. M. Rice, and M. Sigrist, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **78**, 3374 (1997).
