# Isotope Effect in Superconducting γ-Uranium Alloys+ Footnote †: A new
determination of the isotope effect in γ-stabilized uranium-molybdenum
alloys has been made. We find T_(_(c)) ∝ M^(−0.40), rather than the
previously reported T_(_(c)) ∝ M^(−0.53).

J. D. Lindsay, R. W. White, M. C. Tinkle, S. W. Hayter, and R. D. Fowler

###### Abstract

A new determination of the isotope effect in γ-stabilized
uranium-molybdenum alloys has been made. We find T_(_(c)) ∝ M^(−0.40),
rather than the previously reported T_(_(c)) ∝ M^(−0.53).

Subsequent to the report[1] by Hill _et al._ on the isotope effect in
superconducting γ-uranium alloys, we obtained some more pure ²⁸⁸U and
²⁸⁵U, and also some ²⁸⁸U and ²⁸³U. The ²⁸⁵U metal was purified by
successive ether extractions of its nitrate. The ²⁸³U was not further
purified.

The stabilized γ-uranium phase was made by arc melting each uranium
sample together with molybdenum to form the 18-at.

Transition-temperature measurements similarly made on some samples of
the γ-phase alloy, which were prepared from some of the old less-pure
²⁸⁵U and ²⁸⁶U and then subjected to the new heat treatment, now showed
T_(_(c)) ∝ M^(−0.43), in reasonably close agreement with the above
results.

The difference between the results obtained in this work and those of
the earlier work is, perhaps, due to the uniform heat treatment given to
the samples, as well as to their greater purity. The linearity of the
ln-ln plot of data for the three isotopes supports the validity of the
result.

A point is shown in Fig. 1 for ²⁸³U. This isotope emits α particles of
average energy 4.808 MeV, with a relatively short half-life (compared to
the half-lives of ²⁸⁵U, ²⁸⁶U, and ²⁸⁸U) of 1.62 ×10⁵ years. Because of
probable apparatus contamination by this relatively great radioactivity,
the ²⁸³U-Mo alloys were not heat treated, but their transition
temperatures were measured on the as-arc-melted samples. Furthermore,
the self-heat-ing due to the radioactivity causes a temperature
difference between sample and thermometer. We determined the magnitude
of this temperature difference by _in situ_ heating of a ²⁸⁰U-Mo alloy
and measurement of the resultant apparent lowering of T_(_(c)). This was
done by doping the ²⁸⁶U-Mo alloy with 0.04 wt

It may be remarked that the theory of Morel and Anderson4 predicts an
isotope effect of T_(e) ∝ M^(−0.42) for γ-U if the Debye temperature
used by Goodman _et al._5 is used in the calculation.

The authors are very grateful to Dr. James E. Rounsville, Jr. of the Oak
Ridge National Laboratory for providing us with the ²³²U, and for making
the solid solutions of it and ²³⁸U. They also wish to express their
appreciation to Dr. Richard Bard, Group Leader of CMB-8 of the Los
Alamos Scientific Laboratory, for putting uranium purification and metal
producing facilities of his group at our disposal.

## References

* [1] * [2]Work performed under the auspices of the U. S. Atomic Energy
Commission. * [3]Chemistry and Metallurgy Division Leader, Los Alamos
Scientific Laboratory, 1956-1970; now Visiting Scholar, Department of
Applied Physics, Stanford University, Palo Alto, Calif. * [4]H. H. Hill,
R. W. White, J. D. G. Lindsay, R. D. Fowler, and B. T. Matthias, Phys.
Rev. **163**, 2 (1967); Phys. Rev. **163**, 356 (1967).

[MISSING_PAGE_POST]
