High-pressure synthesis of the indirectly electron-doped iron pnictide
superconductor Sr1-La2Fe2As2 with maximum _T_c = 22 K

Yoshinori Muraba,¹ Satoru Matsuishi,¹ Sung-Wng Kim,² Toshiyuki Atou,¹
Osamu Fukunaga,² and Hideo Hosono^(1, 2, ®)

¹Materials and Structures Laboratory, Tokyo Institute of Technology,
4259 Nagatsuta, Midori, Yokohama 226-8503, Japan

²Frontier Research Center, Tokyo Institute of Technology, 4259
Nagatsuta, Midori, Yokohama 226-8503, Japan

²Frontier Research Center, Tokyo Institute of Technology, 4259
Nagatsuta, Midori, Yokohama 226-8503, Japan

###### Abstract

Compounds of Sr1-La2Fe2As2 were synthesized by solid-state reaction at
1273 K, under pressures of 2 or 3 GPa. The Sr1-La2Fe2As2 phase was
dominant up to x = 0.5 and superconductivity was observed at x = 0.2. A
maximum critical temperature _T_c of 22 K and a maximum shielding volume
fraction of  70

2010 10.1103/PhysRevB.82.180512 180512 10.1103/PhysRevB.82.180512 180512
180512 180512 180512 1

The discovery of LaFeAsO1-Fe2 with a critical temperature (_T_c) of 26 K
in early 2008 triggered the extensive exploration for new iron-based
superconductors.¹ Various compounds with an iron square lattice have
since been reported and the _T_c was pushed up to 56 K. This exceeded
the maximum _T_c of other materials with the exception of that for
high-_T_c cuprates.² ⁻ ⁴ Such superconductors have a two-dimensional
cylindrical Fermi surface with two hole pockets at the Γ point and two
electron pockets at the M point. The origin of the superconductivity is
usually discussed in terms of nesting on the Fermi surface.^(5, 6)
Angle-resolved photoemission spectroscopy experiments⁷ and theoretical
calculations^(5, 6) suggest that superconductivity is expected to occur
by electron or hole doping, providing the hard-band model is valid. The
experimental examination of the both electron-doped and hole-doped case
of superconductivity is still far from complete. For example, in the
1111 phase it is established that electron doping effectively works to
induce superconductivity as exemplified by _Ln_FeAsO1-Fe2F2 (where _Ln_:
lanthanide). However, the hole-doping effect still remains unclear.⁸
Information on both electron-doped and hole-doped cases in
superconductivity is important for examining the modification of the
Fermi surface by carrier doping.

The 122 phase⁹ is more favorable than the 1111 phase for examining this
issue because the phase forming reaction temperature is sufficiently low
that subreactions within container vessels and/or selective vaporization
of a component may be suppressed. Direct electron doping to FeAs-layers
by substituting the iron site with appropriate transition metals (e.g.,
Co²⁺ and Ni²⁺) (Refs. [10] and [11]) can be achieved and
superconductivity was induced by the doping mode. However, to date there
are no reports of superconductivity of 122 system induced by indirect
electron doping via aliovalent cation substitution to alkaline-earth
metal site. While Wu _et al.¹²_ examined the La³⁺ substitution at the
alkaline-earth metal site, solid-state reactions of the ingredient
mixture for Ba1-La2Fe2As2 did not yield the La-substituted 122 phase by
using the conventional glass-tube technique under ambient pressure.
Leithe-Jasper _et al.¹³_ reported density-functional theory calculations
showing a distinct difference in-phase instability and effect of
magnetic moment, originating from the electronic structure between
Co-doped and La-doped SrFe2As2. The La-substituted phase was
electronically unstable but no phase instability was induced by Co
doping. This prediction is consistent with the formation of
Sr1-La2Fe2As2 phases having not been reported to date.

The ionic radius of La³⁺ (116 pm) is smaller than that of Sr²⁺ (126 pm)
and so it is likely that a high-pressure synthesis would be effective
for obtaining La-substituted SrFe2As2. In the current study, we report
that Sr1-La2Fe2As2 (_x_ <= 0.6) compounds with negative Seebeck
coefficients can be synthesized at high pressure (2-3 GPa) and
superconductivity with a maximum _T_c of 22 K was observed in the range
of 0.2 x <= 0.5.

Samples of nominal chemical composition Sr1-La2Fe2As2 were synthesized
by solid-state reaction under high pressure. The starting materials were
SrAs, LaAs, and Fe2As, each of them having been prepared from their
respective metals. The mixture of these materials was sealed in a metal
Ta tube with a Ta cap, by spot welding in a glove box filled with a dry
Ar gas. Tubes were then heated at 1273 K for 2 h under pressures of 2-4
GPa. A belt-type anvil cell was employed for the high-pressure
synthesis. Crystalline phases in the resulting samples were identified
by powder x-ray diffraction (XRD) using a Bruker diffractometer model DB
ADVANCE (Cu rotating anode). The Rietveld analysis of XRD patterns was
performed using rietan-fp code.¹⁴ The four-probe resistivity and
magnetic susceptibility were measured in the temperature range of 300-2
K, using a PPMS (Physical Property Measurement System, Quantum Design)
with a vibrating-sample magnetometer attachment. Thermopower was
measured at 300 K to check the polarity of the major carrier in the
resulting samples.

Because solubility of La in _A_Fe2As2 (_A_e = Sr, Ba) is small,
solid-state reactions of the ingredient mixture for _A_e1-La2Fe2As2 did
not yield the La-substituted 122 phase by using the conventional
glass-tube technique under ambient pressure. LaAs and SrFe2As2 phases
were identified by XRD, indicating segregation of La from the 122 phase.
When a pressure of 2 GPa was applied during the reaction, the formation
of LaAs was suppressed and an XRD peak shift was observed. When the
applied pressure was increased to 3 GPa, the volume fraction of
impurities increased. The target became a minority phase at 4 GPa, and
so reaction conditions were fixed at 2 GPa and 1273 K for 2 h.

Figure 1(a) shows observed and calculated XRD patterns of samples
synthesized at 2 GPa. Segregation of La was suppressed up to x=0.5 but
the LaAs phase was apparent for x=0.6. A trace amount of LaFeAsO (<3 vol

Figure 2 shows the temperature dependence of resistivity for samples
with different x. An anomaly arising from the crystallographic
transition[16] accompanied the magnetic transition at around 200 K and
was suppressed with x. A sharp resistivity drop instead appeared from
x=0.2 and zero resistivity was observed at x≥ 0.3.

Figure 1: (Color online) X-ray diffraction patterns and crystallographic
data. (a) Powder XRD patterns of Sr_(1 − x)La_(x)Fe₂As₂ with x=0.0–0.6.
A small amount of LaFeAsO phase denoted by asterisk (volume fraction ∼3

Figure 2: (Color online) dc resistivity of Sr_(1 − x)La_(x)Fe₂As₂ as a
function of temperature. The inset is the enlarged region around T_(c).

Figure 3 shows the temperature dependence of magnetic susceptibility χ
for each sample. Pellets were obtained by sintering-synthesized powders
and were used for the measurements. Samples all underwent
demagnetization at 300 K before magnetic measurements were carried out.
A distinct negative shift of χ was observed for x = 0.2−0.5 in the
temperature range below ∼22 K. The top of Fig. 3(b) shows _M-H_ curves
for the samples. The shielding volume fraction calculated from the slope
of the _M-H_ curve was ∼10

Figure 4 shows the Seebeck coefficients of Sr_(1 − x)_M_,Fe₂As₂ (_M_ = K
and La) at 300 K. It was evident that the sign of Seebeck coefficients
for the La-doped samples was negative and opposite to that observed for
the K-doped samples.[17] This result substantiated that electrons were
effectively doped to the FeAs layer by the La substitution as intended
and that superconductivity was induced by electron doping.

Analysis of XRD patterns indicated that La-substitution induced
anisotropic strain along the c direction. Saha _et al.[18]_ reported
that the superconductivity of nondoped SrFe₂As₂ was promoted by internal
strain and caused by stress during crystal growth which disappeared
during thermal annealing. In the current study, we examined the
annealing at 573 K of Sr_(0.6)La_(0.4)Fe₂As₂ prepared at 2 GPa but found
no significant changes in superconducting properties (T_(c) and
shielding volume) or XRD profile. This indicated that the
superconductivity of our samples was not due to mechanical stress like
that reported by Saha _et al._

The reason for T_(c) on the ρ-T profile not changing with La
concentration was then investigated. The profile analysis of XRD
patterns revealed that there is no indication of phase separation but
distinct persistent crystalline strain are present in the (Sr,La)Fe₂As₂.
This strain is attributed to inhomogeneous replacement of Sr ions with
La ions in the SrFe₂As₂ phase. In each sample with the observable T_(c),
there was a portion in which the La concentration was the same as x =0.4
with a maximum T_(c) ∼ 22 K and these portions are percolated throughout
the bulk samples. Since the onset T_(c) is controlled by the highest
T_(c) region (La_(0.4)Sr_(0.6)Fe₂As₂), we may understand the obtained
results that the shielding volume fraction changed with x but T_(c)
remained almost unchanged. Here, note that substitution between Sr and
La is easy in cuprates even in conventional solid-state reaction
processes but impossible in Sr-122 iron arsenide. This makes a sharp
contrast between these two representative superconductor systems

Figure 5 summarizes the electronic phase diagram for
directly/indirectly, hole/electron-doped SrFe₂As₂. Onset T_(c) and
anomaly temperature in ρ-T curves indicating structural/magnetic
transition are plotted in this figure. Here, doped carrier numbers per
Fe are plotted in place of compositions in the figure. It is of interest
to compare the present results (indirect electron doping) with those for
SrFe_(2 − y)Co_(y)As₂ (direct doping).[13, 16] Superconductivity in the
latter system occurred at 0.2 ≤ y ≤ 0.5. T_(c) had a maximum of 19 K at
y∼ 0.2, at which point antiferromagnetic ordering decreased with x and
disappeared at y = 0.5. In the present system, bulk superconductivity
(shielding volume >∼ 10

Figure 4: (Color online) Seebeck coefficients at 300 K in divalent
cation-substituted SrFe₂As₂. Data on the K-substituted samples were
taken from Ref. [16].

Figure 3: (Color online) Magnetic properties of Sr_(1 − x)La_(x)Fe₂As₂.
(a) Temperature dependence of magnetic susceptibility χ of the samples
subjected to zero-field cooling (bold trace) or field cooling (dotted
trace). (b) Magnetic moment vs magnetic field at 2 K. (c) Shielding
volume fraction evaluated from _dM/dH_ vs lattice constants c of the
samples prepared under pressures of 2 and 3 GPa. The shielding volume
fraction trend was almost the same for both series of samples.

at x = 0.3 and 0.4 for samples prepared at 2 GPa and x = 0.4 and 0.5 for
those prepared at 3 GPa. The number of electrons injected into the FeAs
layer was _x_/2 = y per Fe site. Superconductivity was induced for the
La-substituted system if electron numbers of 0.15-0.25 per Fe for
samples prepared at 2 GPa and 0.2-0.25 per Fe site for those prepared at
3 GPa, were doped to the parent phase. However, the _T__(c) remains
almost constant (22 K) irrespective of x and the shielding volume
fraction is very small except at x = 0.4. Thus, it is considered that
superconducting range in this system is restricted to x = 0.4
($\Delta n_{\rm electron}/$Fe= 0.2). This range is narrower than that
for the Co-substituted system and both ranges are much narrower than
that for the hole-doped case. In this case the range continues to the
end member KFe₂As₂. The maximum _T__(c) for the indirect (La)-doped
system was slightly higher than that (19 K) for the direct (Co)-doped
system [13] but was lower than that (37 K) for the optimal hole-doped
case. [17]

Recently, asymmetry in the electronic phase diagram upon electron and
hole doping into Fe pnictide superconductors, was theoretically studied
by Ikeda _et al._[19] They constructed a five-band model using a
combination of _ab initio_ band calculations and fluctuation exchange
approximations and examined the doping dependence of superconductivity.
They found that superconductivity was stable over a wider range for hole
doping than for electron doping. Electron doping filled the hole
pockets, which in turn reduced the nesting between the hole pockets and
electron pockets. The disappearance of the electron pockets did not
occur by hole doping. The present experimental results on the carrier
doped 122 system are consistent with this theoretical prediction.

In summary, indirectly electron-doped Sr_(1 − x)La_(x)Fe₂As₂ was
synthesized by solid-state reaction under pressures of 2-3 GPa. The
optimal _T__(c) was slightly higher than that for the indirectly
electron (Co)-doped case but much lower than that for the hole-doped
case. No significant difference in the superconductivity range was
observed between La and Co substitution. Both ranges were much narrower
than that for the hole-doped case. It was concluded that the difference
in electron-doping mode, either direct or indirect, was much smaller
than that of polarity of the doped carrier.

This study was supported by the Funding Program for World-Leading
Innovative R&D on Science and Technology, JSPS, Japan. The authors thank
T. Kamiya and H. Ikeda for their discussion.

## References

* [1] Y. Kamihara, T. Watanabe, M. Hirano, and H. Hosono, J. Am. Chem.
Soc. **130**, 3296 (2008). * [2] H. H. Wen, Adv. Mater. **20**, 3764
(2008). * [3] K. Ishida, Y. Nakai, and H. Hosono, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn.
**78**, 062001 (2009). * [4] I. I. Mazin, Nature (London) **464**, 183
(2010). * [5] I. I. Mazin, D. J. Singh, M. D. Johannes, and M. H. Du,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **101**, 057003 (2008). * [6] K. Kuroki, S. Onari, R.
Arita, H. Usui, Y. Tanaka, H. Kontani, and H. Aoki, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**101**, 087004 (2008). * [7] H. Ding _et al._, EPL **83**, 47001
(2008); K. Nakayama _et al._, _ibid._**85**, 67002 (2009). * [8] H. H.
Wen, G. Mu, L. Fang, H. Yang, and X. Zhu, EPL. **82**, 17009 (2008); G.
Wu, H. Chen, Y. L. Xie, Y. J. Yan, T. Wu, R. H. Liu, X. F. Wang, D. F.
Fang, J. J. Ying, and X. H. Chen, Phys. Rev. B **78**, 092503 (2008). *
[9] M. Rotter, M. Tegel, and D. Johrendt, Phys. Rev. Lett. **101**,
107006 (2008). * [10] A. S. Sefat, R. Jin, M. A. McGuire, B. C. Sales,
D. J. Singh, and D. Mandrus, Phys. Rev. Lett. **101**, 117004 (2008). *
[11] S. L. Bud’ko, N. Ni, and P. C. Canfield, Phys. Rev. B **79**,
220516(R) (2009). * [12] G. Wu, R. H. Liu, H. Chen, Y. J. Yan, T. Wu, Y.
L. Xie, J. J. Ying, X. F. Wang, D. F. Fang, and X. H. Chen, EPL **84**,
27010 (2008). * [13] A. Leithe-Jasper, W. Schnelle, C. Geibel, and H.
Rosner, Phys. Rev. Lett. **101**, 207004 (2008). * [14] F. Izumi and K.
Momma, Solid State Phenom. **130**, 15 (2007). * [15] A. C. Larson and
R. B. Von Dreele, Los Alamos National Laboratory Report No. LAUR 86-748,
2000 (unpublished). * [16] D. Kasinathan, A. Ormeci, K. Koch, U.
Burkhardt, W. Schnelle, A. Leithe-Jasper, and H. Rosner, New J. Phys.
**11**, 025023 (2009). * [17] B. Lv, M. Gooch, B. Lorenz, F. Chen, A. M.
Guloy, and C. W. Chu, New J. Phys. **11**, 025013 (2009). * [18] S. R.
Saha, N. P. Butch, K. Kirshenbaum, J. Paglione, and P. Y. Zavalij, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **103**, 037005 (2009). * [19] H. Ikeda, R. Arita, and J.
Kunes, Phys. Rev. B **81**, 054502 (2010).

Figure 5: (Color online) Electronic phase diagrams for
hole/electron-doped SrFe₂As₂: This diagram was drawn based on the data
reported in Refs. [12] and [16] and present work.
$\Delta n_{\rm electron}/$Fe is the injected number of electrons per Fe
site and $\Delta n_{\rm hole}/$Fe is the number of holes. Observed data
(▫) on _T__(c) in Sr_(1 − x)La_(x)Fe₂As₂ is almost constant ∼22 K for
$\Delta n_{\rm electron}/$Fe=0.1−0.25. Thus, we attribute intrinsic
superconducting region to a narrow range around 0.2 on the basis of the
presence of persistent crystallographic strain, shielding volume
fractions, and onset _T__(c)-x relation.
