# Long-range magnetic order of the Er ions in Er2Ba4Cu7O14.92

G. Bottger and P. Fischer

Laboratory for Neutron Scattering, Eidgenossische Technische Hochschule
Zurich and Paul Scherrer Institut,

CH-5232 Villigen PSI, Switzerland

A. Donni

National Research Institute for Metals, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 305, Japan

P. Berastegui

ISIS Facility, Rutherford Appleton Laboratory, Didcot, Oxon OX11 0QX,
United Kingdom

Y. Aoki and H. Sato

Department of Physics, Faculty of Science, Tokyo Metropolitan
University, Hachioji-shi 192-03, Japan

F. Faut

Laboratory for Neutron Scattering, Eidgenossische Technische Hochschule
Zurich and Paul Scherrer Institut, CH-5232 Villigen PSI, Switzerland

11 February 1997

###### Abstract

Neutron-diffraction investigations at temperatures down to 25 mK were
performed for the high-temperature superconductor Er2Ba4Cu7O14.92
(Er-247), T_(c)=89 K on a polycrystalline sample prepared by a sol-gel
technique. Below T_(N)=0.54 K, a three-dimensional antiferromagnetic
ordering of the Er ions corresponding to a propagation vector
**k**=(1/2,0,0) and a finite correlation length of about 130 A along the
c axis have been found. The magnetic Er moments are oriented parallel to
the b axis. This work proves that Er-247 shows a long-range magnetic
ordering. [S0163-1829(97)52518-5]

## I Introduction

The compounds of the R₂Ba4Cu7O14.92 (_R_ = most rare earth elements and
Y; n = 0, 1, 2; 0 <= d <= 1) family have closely related structures,
containing superconducting CuO2 planes and single and/or double Cu-O
chains. The structure of the R - 247 (_n_ = 1) can be described as
composed of alternating blocks containing single and double chains
forming a -123-124-123-124-stacking sequence. The single chains can be
oxygen depleted as in the R - 123 (_n_ = 0) phase, but the R - 247
compound remains superconducting due to the presence of stoichiometric
R - 124 (_n_ = 2) blocks. The maximum T_(c)=95 K can be only reached in
fully oxidized samples without stacking faults.1

Footnote 1:
1997-H-1997-H-1997-H-1997-H-1997-H-1997-H-1997-H-1997-H-1997-H-1997-H-1997-H-1997-H-1997-H-1997-H-1997-H-1997-H-1997-H-1997-H-1997-H-1997-H-1997-H-1997-H-1997-1997-1997-1997-1997-1997-1997-1997-1997-1997-1997-199
Design superconducting quantum interference device (SQUID) magnetometer
for an applied external field of 0.01 T. ZFC (zero-field cooled) and FC
(field cooled) susceptibility data were collected on fine powdered
samples, which were fixed with paraffin to prevent reorientation.

In order to observe a magnetic phase transition specific heat
experiments between 90 mK and 3 K were carried out by a semiadiabatic
heat pulse method using a dilution refrigerator.

## III Results and discussion

Low-temperature specific-heat versus temperature data of Er2Ba4Cu9O14.92
, which are shown in Fig. 1, indicate a magnetic ordering at the Neel
temperature T_(N) = 0.54 K. Our data can be interpreted consistently
with an anisotropic two-dimensional (2D) Ising model (line in Fig. 1).
Thus, we regard the phase transition at T_(N) as two-dimensional in
character. The entropy gain associated with the magnetic ordering effect
is displayed in Fig. 2. The magnetic entropy saturates at the expected
value of R ln2 corresponding to the molar entropy of the doublet ground
state of Er.

The superconducting transition temperature has been determined in a
magnetic susceptibility measurement (Fig. 3). Our Er2Ba4Cu9O14.92 (δ =
0.08) sample shows a T_(c) = 89 K which is close to 95 K, the highest
value possible for a fully oxidized 247 sample (δ=0). Recently, it has
been found that the superconducting transition temperature T_(c) in
fully oxidized 247 samples is correlated with the number of stacking
faults.[1] Therefore, we conclude that our sample contains a very small
number of stacking faults in the 123-124-123-124-sequence that is
building up the structure. These stacking faults–if they are present at
all–will be reflected in the magnetic ordering of the Er ions.

The chemical structure of Er2Ba4Cu9O14.92 has been refined in the space
group Ammn. The refined lattice constants are a = 3.8263(2) A, b =
3.8663(2) A, and c = 50.3683(59) A. The Thompson-Cox-Hastings
pseudo-Voigt function was used to describe the profile and the full
width at half maximum of the Bragg reflections. The best fit was
achieved by introducing an anisotropic size model Y x cos ϕ, where Y is
the size parameter and ϕ is the angle between the scattering vector and
the normal to the platelets which was assumed to be [001]. This model
allows a good description of line broadening effects. The refinement
yielded the size parameters Y = 0.407(22) for the chemical structure and
Y = 1.366(27) for the magnetic structure.

The magnetic structure was determined at 25 mK. Figure 4 shows the
magnetic diffraction pattern for Er2Ba4Cu9O14.92 , obtained by
subtracting the scattering observed above T_(N) , measured at 3 K, from
the data observed at T = 25 mK. A three-dimensional configuration for
the magnetic Er moments inferred from the refinement of the magnetic
diffraction pattern is shown schematically as an inset in Fig. 4. The
refinement was performed using the program fullprof,[7] which allows the
simultaneous treatment of several chemical and magnetic phases. The
magnetic cell can be described by the propagation vector
**k**=(1/2,0,0), i.e., the magnetic unit cell is doubled along the a
direction compared to the chemical unit cell. The magnetic structure
consists of chains of parallel (ferromagnetic) Er moments along the b
direction with adjacent chains in the (_a,b_) plane coupled

Figure 1: Magnetic specific heat for Er2Ba4Cu9O14.92 . The line is a fit
with the anisotropic 2D-Ising model to the data using Onsager’s solution
(Ref. [10]). While the absolute values of J and _J_’ can be extracted
from this model, their signs are indistinguishable. The opposite signs
of the resulting coupling parameters J and _J_’ in the (_a,b_) plane
originate from the magnetic structure determined by neutron diffraction.

Figure 3: Magnetic susceptibility data versus temperature for
Er2Ba4Cu9O14.92 measured in the zero-field cooling mode in an applied
external field of 0.01 T. The onset of superconductivity is at T_(c) =
89 K (indicated by an arrow).

antiferromagnetically. The magnetic moments are antiparallel in the next
layer up, which is translated by 1/2b + 1/2c. The refinement of the
magnetic diffraction pattern yields a correlation length λ_(c) = 133(4)
A along the c axis which is due to magnetic stacking faults along this
direction as expected from magnetic susceptibility measurements.

In addition to the basic configuration of magnetic moments, we
determined their magnitude. In a mean-field calculation based on the
crystal field level scheme of Er³⁺ we obtained a magnetic Er moment
$\mu_{\rm cal}$= 3.92μ_(B). Our experimental value of
$\mu_{\rm Er}$=3.68(10) μ_(B) at saturation determined by neutron
diffraction is in good agreement with $\mu_{\rm cal}$ (see Fig. 5). The
same type of ordering has been observed in the related ErBa₂Cu₄O₈
(Er-124) compound,[8] with an Er moment $\mu_{\rm Er}$= 3.86(15) μ_(B)
at saturation, whereas 4.2(1) μ_(B) was reported for ErBa₂Cu₃O₇.[9]

## IV Conclusion

In conclusion, we have shown that the magnetic ordering of the Er³⁺ ions
in well crystallized Er₂Ba₄Cu₇O_(14.92) with T_(c)= 89 K taking place
below T_(N)=0.54 K is very similar to the ordering known for Er-124. We
found a three-dimensional antiferromagnetic order of the Er ions with a
finite correlation length of ξ_(c)=133(4) A. The correlation length is
more than twice as large as the lattice constant c, so that at least 10
magnetic ions are coupled along the c axis. The magnetic Er moments are
aligned parallel to the b axis. The ordered magnetic moment of the Er
ions at saturation is determined to be $\mu_{\rm Er}$=3.68(10) μ_(B).

###### Acknowledgements.

We would also like to thank S. Pujol for expert technical assistance
with the dilution refrigerator which has been kindly placed at our
disposal by the ILL in Grenoble. We are indebted to Professor A. Furrer,
Dr. J. Mesot, and Dr. P. Allenspach for stimulating discussions. Funding
by the Swiss National Science Foundation and by the Ministry of
Education, Science and Culture of Japan was gratefully acknowledged.

## References

* [1] P. Berastegui, P. Fischer, I. Bryntse, L.-G. Johansson, and A. W.
Hewat, J. Solid State Chem. **127**, 31 (1996). * [2] B. Roessli, P.
Fischer, U. Staub, M. Zolliker, and A. Furrer, Europhys. Lett. **23**,
511 (1993). * [3] B. Roessli, P. Fischer, M. Guillaume, J. Mesot, U.
Staub, M. Zolliker, A. Furrer, E. Kaldis, J. Karpinski, and E. Jilek, J.
Phys., Condens. Matter. **6**, 4147 (1994). * [4] H. Zhang, J. W. Lynn,
and D. E. Morris, Phys. Rev. B **45**, 10 022 (1992). * [5] P.
Berastegui, M. Kakihana, M. Yoshimura, H. Mazaki, H. Yasouka, L.-G.
Johansson, S. Eriksson, L. Borjesson, and M. Kall, J. Appl. Phys.
**73**, 2424 (1993). * [6] K. Conder, S. Rusiecki, and E. Kaldis, Mater.
Res. Bull. **24**, 581 (1989). * [7] J. Rodriguez-Carvajal, Physica B
**192**, 55 (1993). * [8] H. Zhang, J. W. Lynn, W.-H. Li, and T. W.
Clinton, Phys. Rev. B **41**, 11 229 (1990). * [9] J. A. Hodges, P.
Imbert, J. B. M. d. Cunha, and J. P. Sanchez, Physica C **160**, 49
(1989). * [10] L. Onsager, Phys. Rev. **65**, 117 (1944).

Figure 4: Observed (dots) and calculated (solid line) difference neutron
diffraction pattern (25 mK–3 K) of Er₂Ba₄Cu₇O_(14.92). The calculated
peak positions are shown as vertical lines and the difference of
observed and calculated pattern is shown as a dashed line. The inset
shows the magnetic unit cell of Er₂Ba₄Cu₇O_(14.92). The magnetic moments
are oriented parallel to the b axis. White and black colors correspond
to the antiparallel configuration of the magnetic moments.

Figure 5: Temperature dependence of the sublattice magnetization of Er³⁺
in Er₂Ba₄Cu₇O_(14.92). The dashed line denotes a mean-field calculation
on the basis of the crystal field parameters.
