# Effect of Tb substitution for Dy on superconductivity and magnetism in
Dy1-xTb_(x)Ni2B2C

Jae-Hyuk Choi,^(1, 2) Heon-Jung Kim,¹ H. B. Kim,¹ Hyeon-Jin Doh,¹
Sung-Ik Lee,^(1, 3) and B. K. Cho^(1, 4)

¹National Creative Research Initiative Center for Superconductivity and
Department of Physics, Pohang University of Science and Technology,
Pohang 790-784, Republic of Korea

²Korea Research Institute of Standards and Science (KRISS), P. O. Box
102, Yuseong, Daejeon 305-600, Korea

³Quantum Material Laboratory, Korea Basic Science Institute, 52
Yeoeun-dong, Yuseung-gu, Daejeon 305-333, Korea

⁴Center for Frontier Materials, Department of Materials Science and
Engineering, Kwangju Institute of Science and Technology, Gwangju
500-712, Korea

###### Abstract

The superconductivity and the magnetism of Dy1-xTb_(x)Ni2B2C (0.0 ≈ x ≤
1.0) single crystals were studied. As Tb⁺³ was substituted for Dy⁺³, the
superconducting transition temperature _T_(c)_ decreased linearly at a
rate of _dT_(c)/dx_ = 12 K, and for x ≥ 0.4, no superconductivity was
observed above 2 K. In contrast, the antiferromagnetic ordering
temperature _TN_ was almost constant for x ≤ 0.6. These behaviors are in
sharp contrast to the case of Dy1-xHo_(x)Ni2B2C, where the _T_(c)_ is
constant for x < 0.7 but the _TN_ decreases linearly with x. The
difference between Dy1-xTb_(x)Ni2B2C and Dy1-xHo_(x)Ni2B2C can be
understood if the magnetic structures of both compounds are properly
considered.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.72.054516

PACS number(s): 74.62.Dh, 74.25.Dw, 75.50.Ee, 74.70.Dd

## I Introduction

A family of superconductors, _R_Ni₂B2C (_R_ = rare-earth element, Y, and
Lu), [1, 2, 3] shows many interesting features, such as the coexistence
of superconductivity and magnetism, [2, 3] the formation of a square
vortex lattice, [4, 5] a large fluctuation effect, [6, 7, 8, 9] an
upward curvature of the upper critical field, [10, 11] and anomalous
optical properties. [12, 13] While the gap symmetry of this family of
compounds was thought to be that of a fully gapped s wave, this issue
was revisited recently, based on studies on the field-angle-dependent
specific heat [14] and thermal conductivity, [15] and an anisotropic or
nodal superconducting gap was proposed. This anisotropic or nodal
superconducting gap was also found to coexist with nonlocal effects in
LuNi2B2C, where a complex field-angle dependence of the specific heat
appeared when the sample became disordered. [16] Among the issues
surrounding this family of superconductors, [17] the interplay between
magnetic ordering and superconductivity is quite interesting not only
because the ranges of the superconducting and the antiferromagnetic (AF)
critical temperatures _T_(c)_ and _TN_(x)_ are very wide but also
because the configuration of the magnetic structure varies differently
depending on R. [18]

_R_Ni2B2C has a layered structure with a tetragonal symmetry, which
consists of (Ni-B)2 and _R_-C layers along the c direction. Despite this
layered structure, band structure calculations have showed that the
electronic properties of these compounds are three dimensional. [19, 20]
In addition, this family of compounds has a multiband character; the
electrons in the Ni 3d band are major charge carriers and are the main
contribution to the superconductivity, even though the contributions
from other bands are not negligible.

The low-temperature magnetic structures of _R_Ni2B2C (Refs. [2] and [3])
have been studied in detail by using neutron scattering. [21] For
example, as Fig. 1 shows, in the magnetically ordered state, the
magnetic spins for R = Dy (Ho) align in the [110] direction
ferromagnetically in the _ab_ plane but antiferromagnetically along the
c direction. For R = Tb, however, the magnetic spins point along the a
axis and form an _a_-axis-modulated ordered structure. This ordering of
the magnetic spins of the _R_⁺³ ions is mediated by the
Ruderman-Kittel-Kasuya-Yosida (RKKY) interaction, which is an exchange
interaction between the localized magnetic spins and the conduction
electrons. The Neel temperatures _TN_(N)_’s of the pure quaternary
compounds for R from R = Tm to Gd are nearly proportional to the de
Gennes factor dG = (g_(J) − 1)²J(J + 1), where _gJ_ is the Lande g
factor, and J is the total angular momentum, which is determined by
Hund’s rules for the ground state of _R_⁺³. The values of dG are 4.5,
7.1, and 10.5 for Ho⁺³, Dy⁺³, and Tb⁺³, respectively and _TN_ increases
in this order.

Since the magnetic moments perturb the singlet (spin up and spin down)
Cooper pairs formed between the conduction electrons, the magnetic ion
_R_³⁺ suppresses the superconductivity. The pair-breaking effect due to
exchange scattering by _uncorrelated_ local magnetic spins was
theoretically considered by Abrikosov and Gor’kov (AG). [22] According
to the AG theory, the _T_(c)_ is rapidly suppressed with increasing dG;

Figure 1: Crystalline structure and magnetically ordered state of
_R_Ni2B2C at low temperatures. The arrow on a R ion represents its
magnetic spin. The magnetic ordering wave vector for the Tb case is
indicated by **q**.

i.e., dT_(c)/dx ∝ − J_(sf)²/dG, where x is the concentration of magnetic
moments and J_(sf) is an exchange coupling constant between the local
moments and the conduction electrons. In pure RNi₂B₂C, where the
magnetic elements R are located on regular lattice sites, the T_(c)
decreases monotonically with increasing dG from R =  Y, Lu to R = 
Dy.[18] It should be noted that in the case of R =  Dy,
superconductivity appears inside the magnetic order and in this case, AG
theory is no longer valid. Also, for the alloy
(R_(1 − x)R_(x)^(′))Ni₂B₂C, the T_(c) is suppressed as the effective de
Gennes factor, dG_(eff)=(1−_x_) × dG[R]+_x_ × dG[R^(′)], increases as
long as the T_(c) is higher than the T_(N),[23] as is predicted by the
AG theory. However, T_(c)/T_(c0) versus the dG factor for these
compounds did not show a universal behavior. This breakdown of dG
scaling originated from different crystalline electric field (CEF)
effects of R³⁺ and different values of conduction electron-local moment
coupling constant.[23]

de Gennes scaling of the T_(c) was also found to break down in the
Dy_(1 − x)Ho_(x)Ni₂B₂C system when T_(N) was higher than T_(c).[23, 24]
This anomalous behavior was not confined only to the Dy − Ho system.
When nonmagnetic ions, such as Lu⁺³ (Ref. [23]) and Y⁺³ (Ref. [25]) are
substituted for Dy⁺³, the T_(c) is suppressed rapidly. On the other
hand, as Ho⁺³ replaces Dy⁺³, the T_(N) of the Dy − Ho system decreases
linearly with decreasing dG_(eff), as expected. Y substitution for Tb
has also been studied in detail.[26, 27]

To understand the above-mentioned phenomena more clearly, we prepared
Dy_(1 − x)Tb_(x)Ni₂B₂C (Dy − Tb) single crystals, in which T_(c) was
lower than T_(N). In that system, we found T_(c) and T_(N) behaviors
that were strikingly different from those in the Dy − Ho system. In the
Dy − Tb system, the T_(c) is depressed significantly by a small
substitution of the magnetic ion Tb⁺³ while the T_(N) does not change
very much for x ≈ 0.6. This is an unexpected result in view of the T_(c)
and the T_(N) behaviors in the Dy − Ho system. We found that the
different magnetic structures for Tb and Dy (or Ho) were very crucial to
understanding the strange pair-breaking and magnetic ordering.

## II Experiment

Crystals of Dy_(1 − x)Tb_(x)Ni₂B₂C were prepared for ten different
nominal compositions from x = 0.0 to 1.0 by using a high-temperature
metal flux of Ni₂B, as has been described in detail elsewhere.[28] The
crystal structure of each composition was confirmed to be tetragonal,
like that of the two mother compounds, by using powder x-ray
diffraction. The temperature- and field-dependent magnetizations, as
well as the resistances, were measured using a commercial
superconducting quantum interference magnetometer. The zero-field-cooled
(ZFC) data in the superconducting state were obtained on warming after a
sample had been quenched.

## III Results and Discussion

The temperature-dependent static susceptibilities χ of the
Dy_(1 − x)Tb_(x)Ni₂B₂C compounds with x = 0.05, 0.1, and 0.25 under the
zero-field-cooled (ZFC) condition for ${\bf H}\!\parallel\!{\bf c}$ are
plotted in Fig. 2(a). To probe the superconducting transitions with the
magnetic disturbances caused by the Dy⁺³ and the Tb⁺³ ions minimized, we
applied a low magnetic field of 2 Oe along the c direction, which is the
magnetic hard axis of these compounds. The 4 πχ for x = 0.05 shows a
typical superconducting diamagnetism, but the transition width ΔT_(c) of
2 K from the onset of the diamagnetic signal to 90

Figure 2: (a) Static susceptibility of Dy_(1 − x)Tb_(x)Ni₂B₂C with x
=0.05, 0.1, and 0.25 for $H\!\parallel\!{\bf c}$ versus temperature in a
zero-field-cooled warming condition. The arrows indicate the
superconducting transition temperatures. (b) Normalized resistances of
Dy_(1 − x)Tb_(x)Ni₂B₂C with x=0.05, 0.1, and 0.25 versus temperature.
Because of the AF ordering, the resistances suddenly decrease at
T = T_(N).

Figure 3 shows the susceptibilities, χ(T), for $\bf H\perp c$ and H=10
Oe for different values of x. The data for pure DyNi₂B₂C and TbNi₂B₂C
are also plotted for comparison. As the figure shows, the AF transitions
manifest themselves with a clear deviation of χ(T), near or above T=10
K, from the behavior at higher T. The T_(N) was determined from the peak
point of χ(T). For x ≤ 0.25, the additional drops at lower temperatures
are attributed to superconducting transitions. As x increases up to 0.4,
the onset temperature of AF ordering is virtually unchanged, in spite of
the increasing dG_(eff). Instead, the transition becomes broad, and the
suppression of χ(T) below T_(N) is weakened. As x is increased further
above 0.6, the magnetic transition becomes sharper and increases,
approaching that of TbNi₂B₂C, as seen in Fig. 3(b). This results from
the facts that the Tb⁺³ ions participate more in the magnetic ordering
and that the disturbance due to the Dy⁺³ ions becomes small. The upturns
of χ(T) around 6 K for x=0.8 and 0.9 are thought to be due to the
appearance of weak ferromagnetism, as in pure TbNi₂B₂C around 8 K [29].

The variations of T_(c) and T_(N) versus dG_(eff) in our Dy –Tb system,
as well as in the previously reported Dy–Ho system, [18, 23] are
presented in Fig. 4. dG_(eff) is 7.083 for pure DyNi₂B₂C, and that for
Dy –Tb (Dy–Ho) is larger (smaller) than this value. For Dy –Ho, the
T_(N) scales with dG_(eff) fairly well, as the RKKY theory predicts.
However, dG_(eff) scaling breaks down for T_(c). The T_(c) is suppressed
by increasing dG_(eff) as predicted by the AG pair-breaking theory, only
in the limited region where T_(c)>T_(N). The breakdown of this dG_(eff)
dependence suddenly shows up at the crossing point of T_(N) and T_(c);
T_(c) drops sharply at that point and then becomes virtually constant as
long as T_(c)<T_(N). This anomalous behavior is unprecedented in other
magnetic superconductors.

The Dy_(1 − x)Tb_(x)Ni₂B₂C compounds studied in this work showed
dG_(eff) dependences for T_(c) and T_(N) that were totally different
from those for Dy –Ho. Even a slight substitution in Dy –Tb suppresses
the T_(c) severely while the T_(c) is robust for x ≤ 0.7
(dG_(eff) ≥ 5.28) in Dy –Ho_(x)Ni₂B₂C. The T_(c) of Dy –Tb decreases
almost linearly with dG_(eff), and its slope, dT_(c)/dx, a parameter for
magnetic pair breaking, is found to be −11.9 ± 1.7 K. On the other hand,
the T_(N) of Dy –Tb does not follow dG_(eff) scaling. This is also in
strong contrast to the Dy –Ho case. As x increases, the T_(N) of Dy –Tb,
∼ 10 K, remains almost unchanged up to x=0.6 (dG_(eff)=9.13), and then
increases rapidly to the value for values up to x=1.0.

A phenomenological model was suggested to elucidate the pair-breaking
effect of Dy_(1 − x)Ho_(x)Ni₂B₂C. [30] In that model, the multiband
RNi₂B₂C system was assumed to have two superconducting order parameters
(SOP); one was due to the Ni band, and the other was due to the other
bands. In a paramagnetic state, both SOP’s are suppressed as dG_(eff)
increases. However, in a magnetically ordered state, the SOP from the Ni
band is affected very little by the local field due to the field
cancellation effect at the Ni site because geometrically, Ni is thought
to be located at the center of a tetrahedron of four nearest rare-earth
ions in Dy_(1 − x)Ho_(x)Ni₂B₂C as in the mother compounds DyNi₂B₂C and
HoNi₂B₂C (See the Ni ion with a cross mark in Fig. 1). In contrast, the
SOP from the other bands is significantly suppressed. Therefore, the
T_(c) is nearly constant for T_(c)<T_(N). This field cancellation effect
below T_(N) was experimentally verified in a Mossbauer study, [31] where
a local pair-breaking field was observed at the Ni sites in TbNi₂B₂C,
but not in DyNi₂B₂C and HoNi₂B₂C. On the same basis, the suppres

Figure 4: Superconducting transition temperature T_(c) and
antiferromagnetic ordering temperature T_(N) versus the average de
Gennes factor dG_(eff) of Dy_(1 − x)Tb_(x)Ni₂B₂C [T_(c)(Tb_(x)),
T_(N)(Tb_(x))] and (Dy Ho)Ni₂B₂C [T_(c)(Ho_(x)), T_(N)(Ho_(x))].
[16]$T_{c}^{\rm res}$ was determined from the resistance measurements
while $T_{c}^{\rm mag}$ was determined from susceptibility measurements.

sion of the $T_{\rm c}$ in Dy–Lu by substitution of nonmagnetic ions,
Lu⁺³[18, 23] can be easily understood. The substituted Lu⁺³ does not
work to cancel the field caused by Dy⁺³, but works instead as a pair
breaker.

The above picture can also be applied to the Dy–Tb system. When Tb⁺³ is
substituted, the R sites are occupied by the magnetic spins of Tb⁺³, and
in this case, the preferred spin direction of Tb⁺³ ([100]) is different
from that of Dy⁺³ ([110]). Therefore, on Tb⁺³ substitution, because of
imperfect cancellation, the electrons at the Ni site start to feel the
local field due to the magnetic spins, which decreases $T_{\rm c}$; Tb⁺³
plays the role of a magnetic pair breaker in the Dy–Tb system. This
interpretation can also be confirmed by comparing the strengths of pair
breaking in Dy–Tb and Dy–Lu. Since Lu⁺³ is a magnetic-spin vacancy, the
remaining field at the Ni site for Lu⁺³ is estimated to be larger than
that for Tb⁺³; therefore, in DyNi₂B₂C, a Lu⁺³ ion will act as a stronger
pair breaker than a Tb⁺³ ion. As expected, the $T_{\rm c}$ suppression
rate for Lu⁺³ substitution, $dT_{\rm c}/dx\!=\!-37$ K, is much larger
than that for Tb⁺³ substitution, $dT_{\rm c}/dx\!=\!-12$ K.

The T_(N) of the Dy–Tb system does not follow de Gennes scaling, but
this breakdown of de Gennes scaling is expected because DyNi₂B₂C and
TbNi₂B₂C have different magnetic ordering structure. The wave vector of
the magnetic order of DyNi₂B₂C is Q = (0, 0, 2π) in the magnetic ground
state, but that of TbNi₂B₂C is Q = (1.1π, 0, 0). These ground states of
the two mother compounds will compete with each other in the Dy–Tb
system. This competition or the change of magnetic structures can result
in a breakdown of de Gennes scaling in T_(N). Possibly, for the Dy-rich
side, the substitution of Tb increases dG, but randomizes the magnetic
structure, which compensates for the increase in dG. Therefore, T_(N)
does not change. In contrast, for the Tb-rich side, the substitution of
Tb causes the overall magnetic structure to resemble that of TbNi₂B₂C.
Thus, the detailed magnetic structures of Dy_(1 − x)Tb_(x)Ni₂B₂C as a
function of x must be determined, for example, by using neutron
scattering experiments.

The above-mentioned scenario could also explain a nonmonotonic behavior
of T_(N) in Er_(1 − x)Tb_(x)Ni₂B₂C polycrystalline samples.[32, 33] In
this Er–Tb system, T_(N) remained almost constant for concentrations up
to x = 0.5 but beyond this value, T_(N) increased rapidly. This behavior
is very similar to that of the Dy–Tb system and therefore, the
competition of magnetic ground states of the two mother compounds is
also thought to play an important role in determining T_(N) in the Er–Tb
system.

## IV Conclusion

We studied the superconductivity and the magnetism of a series of
Dy_(1 − x)Tb_(x)Ni₂B₂C single crystals for which the magnetic structures
of the mother compounds were different from each other. The T_(c)(x) is
suppressed rapidly by Tb substitution, but the T_(N)(x) is almost
constant for x ≈ 0.6. This is in strong contrast to the
Dy_(1 − x)Ho_(x)Ni₂B₂C case where the mother compounds have similar
magnetic structures; the T_(c)(x) of Dy–Ho is virtually constant for
x < 0.7, i.e., T_(c) < T_(N), and the T_(N)(x) follows de Gennes scaling
well.

After comparing the three cases of R^(′) in Dy_(1 − x)R_(x)^(′)Ni₂B₂C, a
nonmagnetic ion (Lu⁺³), a magnetic ion with similar spin anisotropy and
magnetic ordering (Ho⁺³), and a magnetic ion with different anisotropy
and magnetic ordering (Tb⁺³), we were able to present an explanation
that could account for the superconductivities and the magnetisms of all
three cases. The pair breaking or the T_(c) depression in
Dy_(1 − x)R_(x)^(′)Ni₂B₂C for T_(c) < T_(N) mainly originates from the
uncanceled field at the Ni site as in Dy–Tb or Dy–Lu. In the
determination of the T_(N) of a pseudoquaternary
R_(1 − x)R_(x)^(′)Ni₂B₂C, not only the de Gennes factor but also the
magnetic ordering are crucial. When R and R^(′) elements having distinct
magnetic ordering states in RNi₂B₂C, like Dy and Tb, are mixed, the
T_(N) of R_(1 − x)R_(x)^(′)Ni₂B₂C cannot be estimated from only the
change in the dG_(eff).

## Acknowledgment

This research was supported by the Creative Research Initiatives of the
Korean Ministry of Science and Technology.

## References

* (1) R. Nagarajan, Chandan Mazumdar, Zakir Hossain, S. K. Dhar, K. V.
Gopalakrishnan, L. C. Gupta, C. Godart, B. D. Padalia, and R.
Vijayaraghavan, Phys. Rev. Lett. **72**, 274 (1994). * (2) R. J. Cava,
H. Takagi, H. W. Zandergen, J. J. Krajewski, T. Siegrist, W. F. Peck,
Jr., B. Baltogg, R. B. van Dover, R. J. Felder, K. Mizuhashi, J. O. Lee,
H. Eisaki, and S. Uchida, Nature (London) **367**, 252 (1994). * (3) T.
Siegrist, H. W. Zandbergen, R. J. Cava, J. J. Krajewski, and W. F. Peck,
Jr., Nature (London) **367**, 254 (1994). * (4) U. Yaron, P. L. Gammel,
A. P. Ramirez, D. A. Huse, D. J. Bishop, A. I. Goldman, C. Stassis, P.
C. Canfield, K. Mortensen, and M. R. Eskildsen, Nature (London) **382**,
236 (1996). * (5) M. R. Eskildsen, K. Harada, P. L. Gammel, A. B.
Abrahamsen, N. H. Andersen, G. Ernst, A. P. Ramirez, D. J. Bishop, K.
Mortensen, D. G. Naugle, K. D. D. Rathnayaka, and P. C. Canfield, Nature
(London) **393**, 242 (1998). * (6) Mi-Ock Mun, Sung-Ik Lee, W. C. Lee,
P. C. Canfield, B. K. Cho, and D. C. Johnston, Phys. Rev. Lett. **76**,
2790 (1996); Mi-Ock Mun, Sung-Ik Lee, and W. C. Lee, _ibid._**77**, 2146
(1996); Mi-Ock Mun, B. K. Cho, Sung-Ik Lee, P. C. Canfield, and W. C.
Lee, Physica B **259**, 599 (1999). * (7) K. H. Lee, B. J. Mean, G. S.
Go, S. W. Seo, K. S. Han, D. H. Kim, Mohee Lee, B. K. Cho, and S. I.
Lee, Phys. Rev. B **62**, 123 (2000). * (8) Mi-Ock Mun, Sung-Ik Lee, and
W. C. Lee, Physica C **282**, 2061 (1997). * (9) Mi-Ock Mun, Sung-Ik
Lee, and W. C. Lee, Phys. Rev. B **56**, 14668 (1997). * (10) Mi-Ock
Mun, Mun-Seog Kim, Sung-Ik Lee, B. K. Cho, In-Sang Yang, W. C. Lee, and
P. C. Canfield, Physica C **303**, 57 (1998).

11] S. V. Shulga, S.-L. Drechsler, G. Fuchs, K.-H. Muller, K. Winzer, M.
Heinecke, and K. Krug, Phys. Rev. Lett. **80**, 1730 (1998). * [12]
In-Sang Yang, M. V. Klein, S. L. Cooper, P. C. Canfield, B. K. Cho, and
Sung-Ik Lee, Phys. Rev. B **62**, 1291 (2000). * [13] Jae Hoon Kim,
Hanhee Paik, Mi-Ock Mun, B. K. Cho, H. B. Kim, and Sung-Ik Lee, Physica
C **341-348**, 2233 (2000). * [14] Tuson Park, M. B. Salamon, Eun Mi
Choi, Heon Jung Kim, and Sung-Ik Lee, Phys. Rev. Lett. **90**, 177001
(2003). * [15] K. Izawa, K. Kamata, Y. Nakajima, Y. Matsuda, T.
Watanabe, M. Nohara, H. Takagi, P. Thalmeier, and K. Maki, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **89**, 137006 (2002). * [16] Tuson Park, Elbert E. M. Chia, M. B.
Salamon, E. Bauer, I. Vekhter, J. D. Thompson, Eun Mi Choi, Heon Jung
Kim, Sung-Ik Lee, and P. C. Canfield, Phys. Rev. Lett. **92**, 237002
(2004). * [17] A recent extensive review on the various issues of the
borocarbide superconductors can be found in K.-H. Muller and V. N.
Narozhnyi, Rep. Prog. Phys. **64**, 943 (2001). * [18] Paul C. Canfield,
Peter L. Gammel, and David J. Bishop, Phys. Today **51** (10), 40
(1998). * [19] W. E. Pickett and D. J. Singh, Phys. Rev. Lett. **72**,
3702 (1994). * [20] L. F. Mattheiss, Phys. Rev. B **49**, R13279
(1994). * [21] J. W. Lynn, S. Skanthakumar, Q. Huang, S. K. Sinha, Z.
Hossain, L. C. Gupta, R. Nagarajan, and C. Godart, Phys. Rev. B **55**,
6584 (1997). * [22] A. A. Abrikosov and L. P. Gor’kov, Sov. Phys. JETP
**12**, 1243 (1961). * [23] B. K. Cho, P. C. Canfield, and D. C.
Johnston, Phys. Rev. Lett. **77**, 163 (1996). * [24] Jae-Hyuk Choi,
Hyeonjin Doh, Eun-Mi Choi, Sung-Ik Lee, M. Ohashi, and N. Mori, Phys.
Rev. B **65**, 024520 (2002). * [25] Z. Hossain, R. Nagarajan, S. K.
Dhar, and L. C. Gupta, Physica B **259**, 606 (1999). * [26] B. K. Cho,
H. B. Kim, and Sung-Ik Lee, Phys. Rev. B **63**, 144528 (2001). * [27]
H. Bitterlich, W. Looser, G. Behr, K. Nenkov, G. Fuchs, A. Belger, and
L. Schultz, Physica C **308**, 243 (1998). * [28] B. K. Cho, P. C.
Canfield, L. L. Miller, D. C. Johnston, W. P. Beyermann, and A. Yatskar,
Phys. Rev. B **52**, 3684 (1995). * [29] B. K. Cho, P. C. Canfield, and
D. C. Johnston, Phys. Rev. B **53**, 8499 (1996). * [30] Hyeonjin Doh,
Manfred Sigrist, B. K. Cho, and Sung-Ik Lee, Phys. Rev. Lett. **83**,
5350 (1999). * [31] D. R. Sanchez, H. Micklitz, M. B. Fontes, S. L.
Bud’ko, and E. Baggio-Saitovitch, Phys. Rev. Lett. **76**, 507 (1996). *
[32] A. Rustom, A. D. Hillier, R. Cywinski, J. Magn. Magn. Mater.
**177-181**, 1153 (1998). * [33] H. Bitterlich, W. Loser, G. Behr, K.
Nenkov, G. Fuchs, A. Gumbel, and L. Schultz, Physica C **321**, 93
(1999).
