Unconventional charge-density wave in Sr3Ir4Sn13 cubic superconductor
revealed by optical spectroscopy study

A. F. Fang, X. B. Wang, P. Zheng, N. L. Wang

Beijing National Laboratory for Condensed Matter Physics, Institute of
Physics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100190, People’s Republic
of China Collaborative Innovation Center of Quantum Matter, Beijing,
China

###### Abstract

Sr3Ir4Sn13 is an interesting compound showing the coexistence of
structural phase transition and superconductivity. The structural phase
transition at 147 K leads to the formation of a superlattice. We perform
optical spectroscopy measurements across the structural phase transition
on single-crystal samples of Sr3Ir4Sn13. The optical spectroscopy study
reveals an unusual temperature-induced spectral weight transfer over a
broad energy scale, yielding evidence for the presence of electron
correlation effects. Below the structural phase transition temperature
an energy gap-like suppression in optical conductivity was observed,
leading to the removal of partial itinerant carriers near the Fermi
level. Unexpectedly, the suppression appears at a much higher energy
scale than expected for the usual charge-density-wave phase transition.

2014 10.1103/PhysRevB.90.035115

Transition-metal compounds are well known for exhibiting rich and
interesting physical properties such as charge- or spin-density wave [1,
2, 3, 4], superconductivity [5, 6], and modulated lattice distortion [7,
8]. The interplay between two very different electronic phenomena is one
of the fundamental interests in condensed-matter physics. For example,
the layered transition metal dichalcogenides TX2 (T, transition metal;
X, chalcogen), ordinarily possessing charge-density wave (CDW)
instability and its coexistence/competition with superconductivity, are
central characteristics of this family [9, 10, 11]. Lately, the 5d
transitional metal dittelelrie Ir1-xPt4Te2 has attracted particular
attention for the competing phenomenon between structural instability
and superconductivity [7, 12, 13].

A very recent example is the cubic superconductor Sr3Ir4Sn13 with _T_c =
5 K [14, 15, 16]. This compound undergoes a structural phase transition
at _T_* ≃ 147 K, evolving from the I structure (_Pm_$\overline{3}n$) to
an _I_’ structure (_I_$\overline{3}$_d_) accompanied by a doubling of
the unit cell with decreasing temperature across the transition [16].
Concerning the structural phase transition, Klintberg _et al_. found
that a superlattice distortion emerged below the structural phase
transition and assigned it to a CDW modulation [16]. A muon spin
rotation (μSR) study on the isovalent compound Ca3Ir4Sn13 (_T_c = 7 K,
_T_* ≃ 33 K) confirmed that the structural phase transition was a
nonmagnetic transition [17], making the CDW scenario more plausible and
excluding the possibility of the ferromagnetic spin-fluctuation scenario
[18]. Despite the extensive studies on (Sr,Ca)3Ir4Sn13, the origin of
the structural transition and its relation to superconductivity are yet
to be clarified. On the other hand, it is well known that CDW often
occurs in low-dimensional electronic systems, while such instability is
not expected to develop in a three-dimensional (3D) system. Sr3Ir4Sn13
supplies us a precious opportunity to investigate the interplay between
possible CDW instability and superconductivity in a 3D cubic compound.
It is also argued that the structural phase transition in
(Sr,Ca)3Ir4Sn13 is a pressure-induced structural quantum critical point
[16], which makes the compounds more interesting.

It is of great significance to understand the origin of the structural
phase transition, since it is the essential step towards understanding
the mechanism of superconductivity. In this work, we report an optical
spectroscopy investigation on well-characterized Sr3Ir4Sn13
single-crystal samples. We show that the structural phase transition is
associated with the formation of a partial energy gap at the Fermi
surface. A significant number of itinerant carriers are lost due to the
opening of the gap. We suggest an unconventional CDW scenario to account
for the second-order structural phase transition.

Sr3Ir4Sn13 single crystals were synthesized by self-flux technique in a
procedure similar to that in earlier reports [14, 19]. The Sn flux was
initially removed from single crystals using a centrifuge at
approximately 575 degC, and then the residual flux was etched in
concentrated hydrochloric acid. Shiny 3D samples were successfully
extracted with maximum dimensions of 3 x 5 x 5 mm3. In order to keep the
whole sample at the same temperature with the sample holder during
optical spectroscopy measurements, we picked a single crystal with a
large flat surface and polished its opposite plane until a thin sheet
obtained. The flat surface was identified to be the (110) plane by
single-crystal x-ray diffraction (XRD) measurements, as displayed in
Fig. 1. The / phase structure with space group _Pm_$\overline{3}n$ and
lattice parameter a = 9.8156 A were obtained from single-crystal XRD
data at room temperature.

The dc resistivity measurements were conducted on a commercial Quantum
Design physical properties measurement system by a four-probe method.
Specific heat data were obtained by a relaxation-time method using the
system. The magnetic susceptibility was measured on a Quantum Design
superconducting quantum interference device vibrating sample
magnetometer system (SQUID-VSM). Figure 2(a) presents the temperature
dependence of resistivity ρ for Sr3Ir4Sn13 single crystals. A distinct
anomaly is observed at _T_* = 147 K on cooling, while no obvious
hysteresis of _T_* is found upon warming (not shown). The specific heat
_C__(p) also reveals a sharp anomaly at corresponding _T_*, as shown in
Fig. 2(b).

The characteristic λ-like shape of the sharp anomaly identifies the
T^(*) anomaly as a second-order phase transition. Figure 2(c) shows that
the T^(*) phase transition leads to a sudden drop in magnetic
susceptibility, which is similar to that of IrTe₂[13]. As exhibited in
Figs. 2(c)-2(e), the phase transition creates clear anomalies at the
same T^(*) for magnetic susceptibility, resistivity, and specific heat.

As reported in the previous work, the structural phase transition at 147
K results in a 1.1 × 10⁻⁴ emu/mol change in Pauli susceptibility [16].
Our result is consistent with this. Another striking point is that the
magnetic susceptibility remains negative even above the phase
transition. As is well known, the closed electronic shells or fully
occupied bands would contribute to the diamagnetism, so-called Larmor
diamagnetism. Since iridium is a 5ℓ transition metal, additionally, and
the crystals contain Sn₁₂ cages in the crystal structure, Larmor
diamagnetism is probably sufficient to exceed the paramagnetic Pauli
spin susceptibility χ_(P) of the conduction carriers. Therefore, the
magnetic susceptibilities of Sr₃Ir₄Sn₁₃ compounds are diamagnetic.
Considering the result (obtained below) that about 30

Another significant phenomenon revealed by the electrical resistivity
ρ(T) is a superconducting phase transition at T_(c) = 5 K. Figure 3(a)
shows the temperature-dependent low-temperature magnetic susceptibility
for Sr₃Ir₄Sn₁₃ single crystals in H = 50 Oe parallel to the (110) plane
with zero-field-cooled and field-cooled processes. The low-temperature
magnetic susceptibility suggests the Meissner effect of the
superconductivity below 5 K. The obvious peak in specific heat at T_(c)
shown in Fig. 3(b) confirms the bulk superconductivity for Sr₃Ir₄Sn₁₃
single crystals. It is known that the specific heat at low temperatures
can be approximately written by C_(p)/T = γ + βT² + ηT⁴, with the three
terms on the right-hand side representing the electron, phonon, and
anharmonic phonon contributions, respectively. The linear fit of
normal-state C/T as a function of T² [solid line in Fig. 3(b)] provides
the electronic specific heat coefficient γ = 40.0(1) mJ K⁻² mol⁻¹,
giving a good agreement with previous measurements [15]. Since γ is
proportional to N(E_(F)⁰) the electronic density of states near the
fermi level), N(E_(F)⁰) should be rather large, indicating the presence
of relatively narrow energy bands.

Figure 1: (Color online) The x-ray diffraction patterns of Sr₃Ir₄Sn₁₃
single crystals at room temperature.

Figure 2: (Color online) Physical properties of Sr₃Ir₄Sn₁₃ single
crystals. (a) Resistivity ρ versus temperature in the range of 2 to 300
K. (b) Temperature dependence of specific heat C with zero applied
field. (c–e) Temperature-dependent magnetic susceptibility (a),
resistivity (b), and specific heat (c) from 90 to 190 K, respectively.
The dashed line indicates the phase transition beginning at T^(*) = 147
K.

Therefore, electron correlation effects might not be weak in Sr₃Ir₄Sn₁₃.

The temperature-dependent (110)-plane optical reflectance data were
measured on Bruker 113v, Vertex 80v, and grating-type spectrometers on
shiny flat surfaces of Sr₃Ir₄Sn₁₃ superconducting single crystals over a
broad frequency range, from 40 to 50 000 cm⁻¹ (cm⁻¹ relates to 1/λ in
this paper). We first obtained the reflectivity R(ω) by an in situ gold
and aluminum overcoating technique, further getting the real part of the
conductivity σ₁(ω) by the Kramers-Kronig transformation of R(ω). Figure
4 displays the reflectance and optical conductivity spectra for
Sr₃Ir₄Sn₁₃ single crystals with systematically varying temperature from
10 to 300 K. All the R(ω) approach unity at zero frequency, both above
and below the T^(*) phase transition. A good metallic feature is
obviously revealed, corresponding to the dc electric resistivity. There
is a compelling phenomenon in the R(ω) spectra below the T^(*) phase
transition, i.e., a prominent suppression feature below 4000 cm⁻¹
(marked by an arrow), especially that at 10 K. Clarifying the
suppression feature is crucial for elaborating the evolution of the
electronic structure across the transition.

The suppression feature is clearly reflected in the optical conductivity
spectra as well, shown in Fig. 4 (b). Apparent Drude components can be
observed at low frequencies in all spectral curves, indicating a good
metallic response. Above the T^(*) phase transition, the low-frequency
Drude component shows ordinary narrowing resulting from the reduced
scattering with decreasing temperature, while an unconventional spectral
weight transfer is observed from the low-energy midinfrared region to
the high-energy interband transition region above 5000 cm⁻¹ . Upon
cooling the sample across the T^(*) phase transition, a significant
spectral weight suppression develops in the Drude components and the
suppressed spectral weight is transferred to the peak feature (marked by
an arrow) forming at about 4000 cm⁻¹ . Since the Drude component
represents the contribution from conduction electrons, the suppression
of the Drude components observed in our optical spectroscopy experiments
suggests the removal of a part of the Fermi surface below the phase
transition. At variance with other compounds possessing first-order
structural phase transitions, e.g., IrTe₂[13] or BaNi₂As₂[20], where the
optical conductivity spectra develop sudden and dramatic changes over
broad frequencies across the phase transitions owing to the
reconstruction of the band structures, the present case is more similar
to some CDW materials such as 2H-TaS₂[21], whose spectral suppression
features are rather weak and evolve continuously with temperature. On
the other hand, the unconventional spectral weight transfer also exists
below the T^(*) phase transition. This unconventional spectral weight
transfer may be ascribed to the correlation effect, e.g., the

Figure 4: (Color online) (a) The (110)-plane reflectance spectra of
Sr₃Ir₄Sn₁₃ single crystals at various temperatures, with the black arrow
marking the onset of the suppression feature. (b) Optical conductivity
σ₁(ω) up to 15 000 cm⁻¹; the black arrow points at the newly developed
peaks.

Figure 3: (Color online) (a) Low-temperature magnetic susceptibility χ
versus temperature for Sr₃Ir₄Sn₁₃ single crystals in H = 50 Oe parallel
to the (110) plane with zero-field-cooled (ZFC) and field-cooled (FC)
processes. (b) Specific heat of Sr₃Ir₄Sn₁₃ in the plot of C/T versus T²
with 0 T and 9 T applied field perpendicular to the (110) plane; the
solid line is the fitting result using the relation C = γT + βT³ + ηT⁵
after the superconductivity is completely suppressed by a magnetic field
of 9 T.

intersite Coulomb repulsion, similar to some charge-ordering systems
[22, 23, 24].

Aiming to further investigate the evolution of Drude components, the
Drude-Lorentz model was applied to decompose the optical conductivity
spectra into different components. The dielectric function can be
written as [25]

$$\epsilon(\omega)=\epsilon_{\infty}-\sum_{i}\frac{\omega_{p,i}^{2}}{\omega_{i}^{2 }+i\omega/\tau_{i}}+\sum_{j}\frac{\Omega_{j}^{2}}{\omega_{j}^{2}-\omega^{2}-i \omega/\tau_{j}},$$
(1)

where ϵ_(∞) is the dielectric constant at high energy, and the middle
and last terms are the Drude and Lorentz components, respectively. The
Drude components describe the contribution from conduction electrons,
while the Lorentz components represent the interband transitions. As
indicated by the band structure calculations, for Sr₃Ir₄Sn₁₃, several
different bands cross the Fermi level and the Fermi surfaces are rather
complicated [16, 26]. As a consequence, the conduction electrons are
contributed by different bands and exhibit different behaviors.
Therefore, we applied two Drude components analysis here. In order to
reproduce the optical conductivity below 15 000 cm⁻¹ at 300 K, two Drude
components, a narrow one and a broad one, and four Lorentz terms have to
be used. The narrow one only occupies a small fraction of the spectral
weight of the conduction electrons, while the broad Drude component
takes up most of this spectral weight. However, an additional Lorentz
component centered at 3500 cm⁻¹ (L5 in Fig. 5) should be added at
temperatures below the phase transition. Actually, such analysis has
been widely applied to multiband systems, for example, Fe-based
superconductors (although Fe-pnictide superconductors usually have five
Fermi surfaces: three hole-type Fermi surfaces and two electron-type
Fermi surfaces) [27, 28, 29].

Figure 5(a) illustrates the conductivity spectra at 10 and 300 K
together with the Drude-Lorentz fitting components for Sr₃Ir₄Sn₁₃. It is
found that the two Drude components narrow with decreasing temperature
because of the metallic response, while the gapping of the Fermi
surfaces mainly occurs in the broad Drude component. The results
indicate that the gapping of the Fermi surfaces caused by the T^(*)
phase transition mainly takes place on those Fermi surfaces where the
electrons experience stronger scattering. Compared with the spectral
weight distribution at 300 K, the spectral weight of D1 decreases and
the suppression part of D1 is transferred to that of the added L5 as
well as that of L2 and L3 at 10 K. Considering that two Drude components
contribute to the conductivity, the formula
$\omega_{p}=\sqrt{{\omega_{p}}_{1}{}^{2}+{\omega_{p}}_{2}{}^{2}}$ could
be used to obtain the overall plasma frequency ω_(p), and then ω_(p)≈ 30
530 cm⁻¹ at 300 K and ω_(p)≈ 25 750 cm⁻¹ at 10 K are estimated.
Therefore, the ratio of the square of the plasma frequency in the low
temperature phase to that at 300 K is about 0.71, as shown in Fig. 5(b).
It is well known that ω_(p)² = 4πne²/m^(*), where n is the carrier
density and m^(*) is the effective mass. Provided that the effective
mass of the itinerant carriers remains unchanged, the optical
measurements reveal that roughly 29

Although the electronic structure calculations give an estimation of
loss of 30

Figure 5: (Color online) (a) Experimental σ₁(ω) data at 10 and 300 K up
to 15 000 cm⁻¹ . The Drude (D1, D2) and the Lorentz (L1–L5) terms
acquired from a Drude-Lorentz fit for T = 10 K below 15 000 cm⁻¹ are
illustrated at the bottom. (b) Normalized total ω_(p)² (black line with
squares) and 1/τ₁ (blue line with circles). Both parameters are
normalized to the values of 300 K .

significantly higher than the BCS mean-field value of 3.5 for a
density-wave phase transition [30]. This implies that the T^(*) phase
transition temperature is much lower than the mean-field transition
temperature. Usually, this phenomenon is attributed to a low-dimensional
(e.g., 1D or 2D) electronic structure which gives rise to a strong
fluctuation effect and suppresses the actual ordering temperature.
Apparently, this scenario could not be applied here, since the
Sr₃Ir₄Sn₁₃ compound is a 3D cubic material which is not supposed to
cause strong fluctuation effects.

For correlated metals, the one-component approach is also often used in
the analysis of infrared conductivity. In this approach the simple Drude
model is extended by making the damping term in the Drude formula
complex and frequency dependent [32]. This so-called extended Drude
model has been extensively applied to transition-metal compounds,
heavy-fermion systems, high-Tc cuprates, and other systems with
electrons coupling strongly to certain bosonic excitations. Since the
low-temperature specific heat analysis reveals a moderate enhancement of
the electronic specific heat coefficient in Sr₃Ir₄Sn₁₃, we also
conducted an extended Drude analysis of optical data and got the
frequency-dependent scattering rate and the effective mass in terms of
conductivity spectra [32],

$$\frac{1}{\tau(\omega)}=\frac{\omega_{p}^{2}}{4\pi}\frac{\sigma_{1}(\omega)}{ \sigma_{1}^{2}(\omega)+\sigma_{2}^{2}(\omega)},$$
(2)

$$\frac{m^{*}}{m_{B}}=\frac{\omega_{p}^{2}}{4\pi\omega}\frac{\sigma_{2}(\omega) }{\sigma_{1}^{2}(\omega)+\sigma_{2}^{2}(\omega)},$$
(3)

where ω_(p)² is the unscreened overall plasma frequency, and m_(B) the
band mass. The obtained spectra of the effective mass and the scattering
rate with ω_(p) = 25 750 cm⁻¹ (at 10 K) are displayed in Fig. 6. Both
the scattering rate and the effective mass show a pronounced temperature
dependence at low frequencies. Notably, the scattering rate is
suppressed below about 300 cm⁻¹, and correspondingly, the effective mass
is strongly enhanced. This energy is about one order lower than the peak
feature indicated in the above analysis. If this energy scale is related
to the CDW energy gap, it would provide a natural explanation for the
value of 2Δ/k_(B)T_(s) predicted by the BCS theory. However, this is
highly unlikely. In fact, the suppression feature is clearly present in
the curves at 200 and 300 K, which is much higher than the phase
transition temperature. From the conductivity spectra shown in Fig. 4(b)
we clearly see the presence of two Drude components. The strong spectral
change near 300 cm⁻¹ in the effective mass and the scattering rate
should be related to the two Drude components. On this basis, we believe
that the Drude-Lorentz decomposition of σ₁(ω) is more appropriate here.

The surprisingly large value of the energy gap is a very puzzling
phenomenon. It points towards an unconventional driving mechanism for
the CDW phase transition in such material. It is worth noting that Varma
and Simons proposed a strong-coupling theory of CDW transitions whose
essential ingredients are the strong wave-vector dependence of
electronically induced anharmonicity and mode-mode coupling [33]. This
microscopic theory permits a value an order of magnitude larger than the
BCS mean-field value of 3.5 and predicts that phonons over a substantial
part of the Brillouin zone are softened near the transition. The
strong-coupling picture is also supported by the specific heat data.
From the electronic specific heat coefficient γ = 40 mJ/K² mol as
derived from Fig. 3, we estimate the electronic heat capacity at the CDW
transition temperature as roughly 6 J/K mol. The jump in the heat
capacity at the transition shown in Fig. 2 is about ΔC ≈ 60-70 J/K mol.
This leads to the ratio ΔC/C_(Γ_(CDW))≥10, which is much higher than the
value (1.43) of the simple mean-field BCS theory for CDW phase
transition. In addition, according to the Fermi-liquid theory, γ is
proportional to n^(1/3)m^(*)
($\gamma=\frac{\pi^{3}\gamma^{2}k_{B}^{2}}{3\gamma^{3}\gamma^{3}\gamma^{3}}n^{ 1/3}m^{*}$)
at low temperatures. In combination with the renormalized plasma
frequency
$(\omega_{p}^{*})^{2}=\frac{120}{\pi}\int_{0}^{\omega_{c}}\sigma_{1}(\omega)d \omega=\frac{4\pi\omega^{2}}{m^{*}}$,
we can obtain the values of the carrier density n and effective mass
m^(*)[34, 35]. Taking ω_(c) = 5000 cm⁻¹, n = 1.15 × 10²¹ cm⁻¹ and
m^(*) = 4.53 m_(e) can be achieved. Therefore, due to the violation of
weak-coupling BCS theory and the rather large effective mass, it is
possible that Sr₃Ir₄Sn₁₃ is an example of such a strong-coupling CDW
mechanism. Nevertheless, further studies are necessary on the
unconventional CDW phase transition in such an intermetallic compound.

In summary, we have successfully grown single-crystal samples of
Sr₃Ir₄Sn₁₃ and conducted careful characterizations by XRD, electrical
resistivity, magnetic susceptibility, and specific heat measurements.
The (110)-plane optical measurements of Sr₃Ir₄Sn₁₃ single crystals were
performed to elucidate the nature of the T^(*) anomaly at 147 K. Bulk
superconductivity is confirmed at 5 K. The optical spectroscopy reveals
the

Figure 6: (Color online) (a) Frequency dependence of the effective mass
and (b) scattering rate of Sr₃Ir₄Sn₁₃.

formation of a partial energy gap at the Fermi surface associated with
the structural phase transition. It is estimated that the opening of the
gap leads to the loss of 29

We thank C. M. Varma for helpful discussions. This work was supported by
the National Science Foundation of China (Grant Nos. 11120101003 and
11327806) and the 973 project of the Ministry of Science and Technology
of China (Grant Nos. 2011CB921701 and 2012CB821403).

## References

* [1] J. A. Wilson, F. J. Disalvo, and S. Mahajan, Adv. Phys. **24**,
117 (1975). * [2] D. E. Moncton, J. D. Axe, and F. J. DiSalvo, Phys.
Rev. B **16**, 801 (1977). * [3] J. Dong, H. J. Zhang, G. Xu, Z. Li, G.
Li, W. Z. Hu, D. Wu, G. F. Chen, X. Dai, J. L. Luo, Z. Fang, and N. L.
Wang, Europhys. Lett. **83**, 27006 (2008). * [4] C. de la Cruz, Q.
Huang, J. W. Lynn, J. Y. Li, W. Ratcliff II, J. L. Zarestky, H. A. Mook,
G. F. Chen, J. L. Luo, N. L. Wang, and P. C. Dai, Nature **453**, 899
(2008). * [5] Y. Kamihara, T. Watanabe, M. Hirano, and H. Hosono, J. Am.
Chem. Soc. **130**, 3296 (2008). * [6] E. Morosan, H. W. Zandbergen, B.
S. Dennis, J. W. G. Bos, Y. Onose, T. Klimczuk, A. P. Ramirez, N. P.
Ong, and R. J. Cava, Nature Phys. **2**, 544 (2006). * [7] J. J. Yang,
Y. J. Choi, Y. S. Oh, A. Hogan, Y. Horibe, K. Kim, B. I. Min, and S.-W.
Cheong, Phys. Rev. Lett. **108**, 116402 (2012). * [8] A. F. Fang, T.
Dong, H. P. Wang, Z. G. Chen, B. Cheng, Y. G. Shi, P. Zheng, G. Xu, L.
Wang, J. Q. Li, and N. L. Wang, Phys. Rev. B **85**, 184520 (2012). *
[9] A. H. Castro Neto, Phys. Rev. Lett. **86**, 4382 (2001). * [10] T.
Valla, A. V. Fedorov, P. D. Johnson, P.-A. Glans, C. McGuinness, K. E.
Smith, E. Y. Andrei, and H. Berger, Phys. Rev. Lett. **92**, 086401
(2004). * [11] S. V. Borisenko, A. A. Kordyuk, V. B. Zabolotnyy, D. S.
Inosov, D. Evtushinsky, B. Buchner, A. N. Yaresko, A. Varykhalov, R.
Follath, W. Eberhardt, L. Patthey, and H. Berger, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**102**, 166402 (2009). * [12] S. Pyon, K. Kudo, and M. Nohara, J. Phys.
Soc. Jpn. **81**, 053701 (2012). * [13] A. F. Fang, G. Xu, T. Dong, P.
Zheng, and N. L. Wang, Sci. Rep. **3**, 1153 (2013). * [14] G. P.
Espinosa, A. S. Cooper, and H. Barz, Mater. Res. Bull. **17**, 963
(1982). * [15] N. Kase, H. Hayamizu, and J. Akimitsu, Phys. Rev. B
**83**, 184509 (2011). * [16] L. E. Klintberg, S. K. Goh, P. L. Alireza,
P. J. Saines, D. A. Tompsett, P. W. Logg, J. Yang, B. Chen, K.
Yoshimura, and F. M. Grosche, Phys. Rev. Lett. **109**, 237008 (2012). *
[17] S. Gerber, J. L. Gavilano, M. Medarde, V. Pomjakushin, C. Baines,
E. Pomjakushina, K. Conder, and M. Kenzelmann, Phys. Rev. B **88**,
104505 (2013). * [18] J. Yang., B. Chen, C. Michioka, and K. Yoshimura,
J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **79**, 113705 (2010). * [19] G. P. Espinosa, Mater.
Res. Bull. **15**, 791 (1980). * [20] Z. G. Chen, G. Xu, W. Z. Hu, X. D.
Zhang, P. Zheng, G. F. Chen, J. L. Luo, Z. Fang, and N. L. Wang, Phys.
Rev. B **80**, 094506 (2009). * [21] W. Z. Hu, G. Li, J. Yan, H. H. Wen,
G. Wu, X. H. Chen, and N. L. Wang, Phys. Rev. B **76**, 045103 (2007). *
[22] T. Ishikawa, S. K. Park, T. Katsufuji, T. Arima, and Y. Tokura,
Phys. Rev. B **58**, R13326(R) (1998). * [23] T. Katsufuji, T. Tanabe,
T. Ishikawa, Y. Fukuda, T. Arima, and Y. Tokura, Phys. Rev. B **54**,
R14230(R) (1996). * [24] Y. Okimoto, T. Katsufuji, T. Ishikawa, A.
Urushibara, T. Arima, and Y. Tokura, Phys. Rev. Lett. **75**, 109
(1995). * [25] M. Dressel and G. Gruner, _Electrodynamics of Solids:
Optical Properties of Electrons in Matter_ (Cambridge University Press,
Cambridge, 2002). * [26] D. A. Tompsett, Phys. Rev. B **89**, 075117
(2014). * [27] D. J. Singh and M. H. Du, Phys. Rev. Lett **100**, 237003
(2008). * [28] D. Wu _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **81**, 100512(R) (2010). *
[29] J. J. Tu, J. Li, W. Liu, A. Punnoose, Y. Gong, Y. H. Ren, L. J. Li,
G. H. Cao, Z. A. Xu, and C. C. Homes, Phys. Rev. B **82**, 174509
(2010). * [30] G. Gruner, _Density Waves in Solids_ (Addison-Wesley,
Reading, MA, 1994). * [31] L. Degiorgi, M. Dressel, A. Schwartz, B.
Alavi, and G. Gruner, Phys. Rev. Lett. **76**, 3838 (1996). * [32] D. N.
Basov and T. Timusk, Rev. Mod. Phys. **77**, 721 (2005). * [33] C. M.
Varma and A. L. Simons, Phys. Rev. Lett. **51**, 138 (1983). * [34] L.
Degiorgi, Rev. Mod. Phys. **71**, 687 (1999). * [35] K. S. Burch, A.
Schafgans, N. P. Butch, T. A. Sayles, M. B. Maple, B. C. Sales, D.
Mandrus, and D. N. Basov, Phys. Rev. Lett. **95**, 046401 (2005).
