# Superconducting state in the metastable binary bismuthide Rh3Bi14
single crystals

Xiao Zhang (Zheng Wen ), Hechang Lei (Lei ), and C. Petrovic

Condensed Matter Physics and Materials Science Department, Brookhaven
National Laboratory, Upton, New York 11973, USA

Received 11 April 2012; revised manuscript received 16 July 2012;
published 1 August 2012

###### Abstract

We report detailed magnetic, transport, and thermodynamic properties of
metastable Rh3Bi14 single crystals in a superconducting and normal
state. We show that Rh3Bi14 is a nearly isotropic, weakly to
intermediately coupled BCS superconductor, whereas the electronic
resistivity above superconducting T_(c) = 2.94 K is dominated by the
phonon scattering in the large unit cell with pores filled by Bi atoms.
Superconductivity is strongly influenced by the nature of atoms that
fill the voids in the crystal structure.

pacs: 74.25.-q, 74.70.Ad, 74.62.Bf + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL
REVIEW B **86**, 054502 (2012)

## I Introduction

Complex crystal structures with atomic subunits often show significant
electronic and magnetic tunability through incorporation of various
elements in the (sub)structure. Examples include covalently bonded IV
group thermoelectric clathrates that are under the influence of
anharmonic lattice vibrations with electron-phonon coupling strength
comparable to MgB2, alkali doped fullerenes, and magnetic molecules.[1,
2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8] Cluster units may substantially define physical
properties, whereas their size may considerably deviate from the length
scales defined by the lattice parameters, even in intermetallic systems
where delocalized metallic bonds are present.[9]

A binary Rh-Bi intermetallic phase diagram has been studied for more
than eight decades. Yet, a structurally complex metastable Rh3Bi14 with
136 atoms per unit cell has been discovered only in recent years.[10,
11, 12] The bismuth-rich side of this phase diagram also includes
α-RhBi2, β-RhBi2, RhBi3, and RhBi4 phases.[13, 14] According to the
Rh-Bi phase diagram, Rh3Bi14 is a metastable phase hidden in the
RhBi4-Bi solid phase region. Since the kinetic of peritectic reaction
forming RhBi1 is extremely slow, it can be easily suppressed by
undercooling due to nucleation problems.[11] Hence, Rh3Bi14 single
crystals can be decanted from the Bi liquid, whereas the RhBi4 single
crystals are difficult to obtain.

Rh3Bi14 has orthorhombic symmetry (Fddd space group) with a = 0.69041(4)
[0.68959(15)] nm, b = 1.73816(9) [1.7379(3)] nm, and c = 3.1752(2)
[3.1758(6)] nm.[11, 12] In a Rh3Bi4 unit cell there are 24 Rh and 112 Bi
atoms.[12] Each Rh atom is surrounded by eight Bi atoms, however there
are two inequivalent Rh positions in the unit cell. Rh1 is cubically
coordinated, whereas Rh2 exhibits a square antiprismatic coordination as
shown in Fig. 1(a). Each [RhBi8/2] polyhedra shares a common edge with
four other polyhedra, and thus creates a porous three-dimensional (3D)
framework with channels along the [100] direction. In these channels
there are chiral inner surfaces filled with bismuth ions [Fig. 1(b)].
Partial oxidation of RhBi4 using bromine results in Rh3Bi12Br2,
isostructural with Rh3Bi14.[12] The difference between Rh3Bi14 and
Rh3Bi12Br2 is in the atoms in the channels. In Rh3Bi14, Bi atoms fill
the channels, whereas they are filled by Br atoms in Rh3Bi12Br2. The
theoretical calculation indicates that the 3D polyhedral frameworks in
Rh3Bi14 and Rh3Bi12Br2 are formed by covalently bonded rhodium and
bismuth atoms, consistent with the results of high-pressure studies.[12]
On the other hand, there are no direct bonds between this 3D polycation
framework and anions (Bi⁻¹ or Br⁻¹ in the channels), which leads to the
higher compressibility along the a axis when compared to those along the
b and c axes mainly controlled by the covalently bonded polycation.[12]

Magnetization measurement indicates that Rh3Bi14 is a superconductor
with T_(c) = 2.82(5) K.[11] Although the crystal structure and chemical
bonding have been studied,[11, 12, 15] the studies on physical
properties, especially in connection with superconductivity, are still
lacking.[11] In this work we report on detailed analysis of Rh3Bi14
physical properties in the superconducting and normal states. We show
that electronic scattering in the normal state is dominated by phonons,
whereas in its superconducting state Rh3Bi14 is an isotropic, weakly to
intermediately coupled BCS superconductor.

## II Experiment

Single crystals of Rh3Bi14 were grown by the flux-growth method with a
Rh:Bi = 5:95 molar ratio. Rh pieces (99.9

## III Results and Discussion

All powder x-ray reflections [Fig. 1(c)] can be indexed in the Fddd
space group. The refined lattice parameters are a = 0.6891(1) nm,
b = 1.7388(1) nm, and c = 3.1718(2) nm with R_(p) = 5.220,
R_(wp) = 6.720, and χ² = 0.919, consistent with the values reported in
literature.[11, 12] On the other hand, we also refined the lattice
parameters using single crystal XRD. The lattice parameters are
a = 0.707(3) nm, b = 1.755(5) nm, and c = 3.154(8) nm, which are also
close to the result obtained from powder XRD and previous results. EDX
spectrum of a single crystal [Fig. 1(d)] confirms the presence of only
Rh and Bi with the average atomic ratios Rh:Bi = 3.0(4):13.8(4).

The temperature-dependent electrical resistivity ρ(T) of Rh₃Bi₁₄ is
shown in Fig. 2(a). The sharp resistivity drop with T_(c, onset) = 3.04
K is caused by a superconducting transition [inset of Fig. 2(a)]. The
residual resistivity ratio (RRR), defined as ρ(295 K)/ρ(3.04 K), is
about 9.3. The curve ρ(T) is convex above 50 K, with a tendency to
saturate at high temperature. The saturation of ρ(T) could be related to
the Ioffe-Regel limit [17], when the charge carrier mean free path is
comparable to the interatomic spacing and/or to the two-band
conductivity [18]. According to the phenomenological model [19]

$$\frac{1}{\rho(T)}=\frac{1}{\rho_{\text{ideal}}}+\frac{1}{\rho_{\text{sat}}}, \quad\text{with}\quad\rho_{\text{sat}}\approx\frac{\upsilon_{F}}{\varepsilon_ {0}\Omega_{p}^{2}a},$$
(1)

where υ_(F) is the Fermi velocity, Ω_(p) is the plasma frequency, a is
interatomic spacing, and ρ_(ideal) = ρ_(r) + ρ_(i)(T) . The ρ_(i)(T) is
the inelastic resistivity due to the phonon contribution, whereas
ρ_(sat) is the saturation resistivity. Phonon contribution can be
explained by the Bloch-Gruneisen formula:

$$\rho_{i}(T)=\left(\frac{c}{\Theta_{D}}\right)\left(\frac{T}{\Theta_{D}}\right) ^{5}\int_{0}^{\Theta_{D}/T}\frac{x^{5}}{(e^{x}-1)(1-e^{-x})}dx,$$
(2)

where Θ_(D) is the Debye temperature and c is a constant which depends
on the electronic structure of the metal through the Fermi velocity
υ_(F) and the density of states at the Fermi energy [20]. The fitting
result over the full temperature range of ρ_(T) is shown in Fig. 2(a) as
a solid line, revealing excellent agreement between the model and data
for ρ_(r) = 60.0(4)μΩ cm, ρ_(sat) = 640(2)μΩ cm, Θ_(D) = 95.0(8) K, and
c = 27.7(6) × 10⁴μΩ cm.

To confirm the presence of bulk superconductivity in Rh₃Bi₁₄ single
crystals, the magnetization is measured using the dc susceptibility
method. Figure 2(b) shows the temperature dependence of the dc
susceptibility for a crystal with dimension of 0.2 × 0.4 × 0.2 mm³ for
H ∥ a, H ∥ b, and H ∥ c with zero-field cooling (ZFC) and field cooling
(FC) under an applied magnetic field of 10 Oe. The steep transition
shows that the Rh₃Bi₁₄ single crystal has a superconducting transition
temperature for all field directions of 2.91 K (T_(c, onset)) with a
transition width ΔT_(c) = 0.30 K, consistent with the result of
resistivity measurement. At 2 K, the ZFC dc susceptibility approaches a
value of −1 for all directions after demagnetization correction,
indicating bulk superconductivity. The FC signal shows a flux exclusion
of 61

The shape of the M(H) curve at 1.8 K [Fig. 3(a)] confirms weak pinning,
in agreement with Fig. 2(b). In order to obtain the lower critical
fields of Rh₃Bi₁₄, we measured the initial M(H) curves at various
temperatures with the field directions

Figure 1: (Color online) (a) Crystal structure of Rh₃Bi₁₄.
Three-dimensional framework is built of [RhBi_(3/2)] cubes and square
antiprisms which share common edges. Bi4 atoms fill the channels of the
framework. (b) Edge-sharing [RhBi_(3/2)] cubes and square antiprisms
enclosing bismuth ions form the zigzag channel in Rh₃Bi₁₄. (c) Powder
XRD pattern of a Rh₃Bi₁₄ single crystal. (d) The EDX spectrum of a
single crystal.

along the a, b, and c axis. For each field direction, all curves clearly
fall on the same line and deviate from linearity for different
temperatures. Linear fits for the initial parts of the magnetization
curves describe the Meissner shielding effects ("Meissner line").

The value of H_(c1)^(*) at which the field starts to penetrate into the
sample can be determined by examining the point of deviation from the
Meissner line on the initial slope of the magnetization curve. The first
penetration field H_(c1)^(*) is not the same as the real lower critical
field H_(c1), due to the geometric effect. The H_(c1) can be deduced
from the H_(c1)^(*), assuming that the magnetization M = −H_(c1) when
the first vortex enters into the sample. Thus H has been rescaled to
H = H_(a) − NM and H_(c1) = H_(c1)^(*)/(1 − N), where N is the
demagnetization factor and H_(a) is the external field.[21] We estimate
demagnetization factors 0.47, 0.23, and 0.59 for H ∥ a, H ∥ b, and H ∥ c
by using $H_{c1}=H_{c1}^{*}/\text{tanh}(\sqrt{0.36b/a})$, where a and b
are the width and thickness of a platelike superconductor.[22] The
corrected data are plotted in Figs. 3(b), 3(c), and 3(d). Considering
the demagnetization factors, the obtained slopes of the linear fitting
at the lowest temperature of our measurements T = 1.8 K are −0.972(2),
−0.988(2), and −0.987(2), very close to −1 (4π M = −H) for all field
directions. Thus the full Meissner shielding effect in our measurement
provides a reliable way to determine the value of H_(c1).

H_(c1) is determined as the point deviating from linearity based on the
criterion Δ M = (M_(m) − M_(th)) = 2 × 10⁻⁶ emu, M_(m) is the measured
moment value and M_(th) is the fitted moment value at the same external
field. From Figs. 3(b), 3(c) and 3(d), H_(c1)^(a), H_(c1)^(b), and
H_(c1)^(c) values at the different temperatures can be obtained as shown
in Fig. 3(e). The H_(c1)(T) can be fitted according to
H_(c1)(T) = H_(c1)(0)[1 − (T/T_(c))²]. Fitting lines are shown in Fig.
3(e). The obtained H_(c1)^(b)(0), H_(c1)^(b)(0), and H_(c1)^(c)(0) are
90(1), 63(1) and 93(1) Oe, respectively. The anisotropy of H_(c1) along
each axis can be determined as shown in Fig. 3(f). It can be seen that
the anisotropy of H_(c1)(T) is very close to 1, especially for H ∥ c and
H ∥ a, indicating that Rh₃Bi₁₄ is a nearly isotropic superconductor.

With increasing magnetic fields [Figs. 4(a) and 4(b)] the
superconducting transition width broadens and the onset of transition
shifts gradually to lower temperatures for both H ∥ b and H ∥ c. When
H = 6 kOe, the superconducting transition cannot be observed above 1.9 K
for both field directions. It is interesting to observe kinks in the
R(T) curves below T_(c) under fields for both field directions. The
kinks are becoming more pronounced with the increasing field. The origin
of these kinks implies rich vortex physics, similar to NbSe₂.[23] The
upper critical field H_(c2) is determined by the criterion of 90

Figure 3: (Color online) (a) Magnetization hysteresis loops of Rh₃Bi₁₄
at T = 1.8 K for H ∥ a, H ∥ b, and H ∥ c. (b)–(d) Low field parts of
M(H) at various temperatures for H ∥ a, H ∥ b, and H ∥ c with correct
demagnetization, respectively. The solid blue lines are the “Meissner
line” as discussed in the text. (e) Temperature dependence of H_(c1) for
H ∥ a, H ∥ b, and H ∥ c. The dashed lines are the fitted lines using
H_(c1) = H_(c1)(0)[1 − (T/T_(C))²]. (f) The temperature dependence of
anisotropy of H_(c1), γ_(H_(c1)) = H_(c1, a)(T)/H_(c1, b)(T),
γ_(H_(c1)) = H_(c1, c)(T)/H_(c1, b)(T), and
γ_(H_(c1)) = H_(c1, c)(T)/H_(c1, a)(T).

Figure 2: (Color online) (a) Temperature dependence of the resistivity
ρ_(a)(T) of Rh₃Bi₁₄. Inset: resistivity near T_(c). (b) Temperature
dependence of dc magnetic susceptibility of Rh₃ Bi₁₄ with ZFC and FC at
10 Oe for H ∥ a, H ∥ b, and H ∥ c. The superconducting transition
temperature T_(c, onset) is marked by an arrow.

equal to −6.47(5) and −6.01(11) kOe/K, respectively. For dirty limit
superconductors, H_(c2)(0) can be obtained from the
Werthammer-Helfand-Hohenberg formula[24]:

$$H_{c2}(0)=-0.693\frac{d\,H_{c2}}{dT}\left|{}_{T_{c}}T_{c},\right.$$
(3)

yielding H_(c2)^(b)(0) = 13.4(1) kOe and H_(c2)^(c)(0) = 12.4(2) kOe.
Since the Pauli limiting field H_(p)(0) = 18.4T_(c)∼52 kOe,[25] the
orbital effect should be the dominant pair-breaking mechanism. The small
difference in the H_(c2) values for both field directions indicates that
Rh₃Bi₁₄ shows almost isotropic H_(c2)(T) as seen in Fig. 4(c).

Since H_(c1)^(a) ≈ H_(c1)^(c), according to the anisotropic
Ginzburg-Landau (GL) theory, we assume ξ_(a) ∼ ξ_(c) and coherence
length ξ(0) can be estimated from the H_(c2)(0) with
H_(c2)^(b)(0) = Φ₀/[2π ξ_(a)(0)ξ_(c)(0)], where Φ₀ = 2.07 × 10⁻¹⁵ Wb.
Based on the values of H_(c1)(0) and H_(c2)(0), GL parameters κ_(i)(0)
are obtained from the equation
H_(c2)^(b)(0)/H_(c1)^(i)(0) = 2κ_(i)²(0)/ln κ_(i)(0), where i denotes
the field applied along the i direction. The thermodynamic critical
field H_(c)(0) can be obtained from
H_(c2)(0) = H_(c2)^(i)(0)/[γΔz_(i)(0)]. The GL penetration lengths are
evaluated by the equations κ_(b)(0) = λ_(a)(0)/ξ_(c)(0) and
κ_(a)(0) ≈ κ_(c)(0) = λ_(a)(0)/ξ_(b)(0) = [λ_(a)(0)λ_(b)(0)/ξ_(c)(0)]_(b)(0)[1/2.
The anisotropy is
$\gamma_{\rm anisis}=H_{c2}^{b}(0)/H_{c2}^{c}(0)=\xi_{b}(0)/\xi_{c}(0)$[26].
All of the obtained parameters are listed in Table 1.

Specific heat divided by temperature [Fig. 5(a)] shows a jump at 2.94 K,
indicating the bulk superconducting transition. Specific heat includes
both the electron and lattice parts $C(T)=C_{c}(T)+C_{\rm ph}(T)$. In
the normal state, the specific heat of the lattice part is expressed by
the βT³ term at temperatures far below the Debye temperature Θ_(D) and
electronic specific heat is assumed to be ∼γT. Using C_(p)/T = γ + βT²
we obtain [Fig. 5(a)] γ = 8(1) mJ mol⁻¹ K⁻² and Θ_(D) ∼ 113.9(7) K using
Θ_(D) = (12π⁴NR/5β)^(1/3), where N = 17 is the number of atoms per
formula unit and R is the gas constant. Θ_(D) is similar to the value
obtained from ρ(T). The electron-phonon coupling constant
$\lambda_{\rm e-ph}$ is obtained from the McMillan equation:

$$\lambda_{\rm e-ph}=\frac{\mu^{*}\ln(1.45T_{c}/\Theta_{D})-1.04}{1.04+\ln(1.45T _{c}/\Theta_{D})(1-0.62\mu^{*})},$$
(4)

and assuming the common value for the Coulomb pseudopotential
μ^(*) ≈ 0.13. The value of $\lambda_{\rm e-ph}$ is determined to be
0.74(1) by using T_(c) = 2.94 K and Θ_(D) = 113.9(7) K. The

Figure 4: (Color online) (a) Temperature dependence of the resistivity
in a set of magnetic fields from 0 to 6 kOe for (a) H ∥ b and (b) H ∥ c.
(c) Temperature dependence of the upper critical field H_(c2) for H ∥ b
and (b) H ∥ c.

Figure 5: (Color online) (a) Low temperature specific heat C_(p)/T vs T²
from 1.95 to 300 K at H = 0 kOe. The solid line shows the fit (see
text). (b) Temperature dependence of the electronic specific heat of
Rh₃Bi₁₄ plotted as $C_{\rm os}/T$ vs T at H = 0 kOe.

value of λ_(e-ph) implies intermediately or weakly coupled BCS
superconductivity. The electronic specific heat C_(es) in the
superconducting state [Fig. 5(b)] is obtained by subtracting the lattice
contribution estimated from the total specific heat. The extracted
specific heat jump at T_(c) [ΔC/γT_(c) = 1.8(2)] is somewhat larger than
the weak coupling value 1.43, and also points to intermediate coupling
strength.[27]

Rh₃Bi₁₂Br₂ has a similar structure to Rh₃Bi₁₄, but the two Bi atoms at
Bi4 position are replaced by the Br atoms. Rh₃Bi₁₂Br₂ is a metal above 2
K without superconducting transition.[15] From theoretical
calculation,[12] the density of state (DOS) at Fermi energy is similar
for both compounds, however the contributions of atoms (s and p states
of Bi) at Bi4 position to DOS are nearly removed when voids in the
crystal structure are filled with Br atoms. Therefore, the
superconductivity in Rh₃Bi₁₄ might be related to the s and p states of
the Bi atom in the interstitial Bi4 position of Rh₃Bi₁₄.

## IV Conclusion

In summary, we present a comprehensive study of the normal and
superconducting state properties of metastable intermetallic
superconductor Rh₃Bi₁₄. The temperature dependence of resistivity ρ(T)
above the superconducting transition can be explained by the phonon
scattering. Rh₃Bi₁₄ is an isotropic, weakly to intermediately coupled
BCS superconductor. Presence (absence) of superconductivity in Rh₃Bi₁₄
(Rh₃Bi₁₂Br₂) suggests that the nature of atoms that fill the pores in
the structure is rather important.

###### Acknowledgements.

We thank Kefeng Wang for useful discussions and John Warren for help
with SEM measurements. This work was performed at Brookhaven National
Laboratory and supported by the US DOE under Contract No.
DE-AC02-98CH10886.

## References

* (1) V. Crespi, Nat. Mater. **2**, 651 (2003). * (2) G. S. Nolas, J. L.
Cohn, G. A. Slack, and S. B. Schujman, Appl. Phys. Lett. **73**, 178
(1998). * (3) N. P. Blake, L. Mollinitz, G. Kresse, and H. Metiu, J.
Chem. Phys. **111**, 3133 (1999). * (4) T. Yokoya, A. Fukushima, T.
Kiss, K. Kobayashi, S. Shin, K. Moriguchi, A. Shintani, H. Fukuoka, and
S. Yamanaka, Phys. Rev. B **64**, 172504 (2001). * (5) J. D. Bryan, V.
I. Srdanov, G. D. Stucky, and D. Schmidt, Phys. Rev. B **60**, 3064
(1999). * (6) F. M. Grosche, H. Q. Yuan, W. Carrillo-Cabrera, S.
Paschen, C. Langhammer, F. Kroner, G. Sparn, M. Baenitz, Y. Grin, and F.
Steglich, Phys. Rev. Lett. **87**, 247003 (2001). * (7) B. C. Sales, B.
C. Chakoumakos, R. Jin, J. R. Thompson, and D. Mandrus, Phys. Rev. B
**63**, 245113 (2001). * (8) A. Muller, P. Kogerler, and C. Kuhlmann,
Chem. Commun. **15**, 1347 (1999). * (9) K. Urban and M. Feuerbacher, J.
Non-Cryst. Solids **334**, 143 (2004); **335**, 143 (2004). * (10) E. J.
Rode, Izvest. Inst. Platiny Drug. Blagorodn. Met. **7**, 21 (1929). *
(11) F. Weitzer, W. Schnelle, R. C. Gil, S. Hoffmann, R. Giedigkeit, and
Y. Grin, Compu. Coupling Phase Diagrams Thermochem. **33**, 27 (2009). *
(12) Q. F. Gu, G. Krauss, Y. Grin, and W. Steurer, J. Solid State Chem.
**180**, 940 (2007). * (13) A. Kjekshus, Acta Chem. Scand. **25**, 411
(1971). * (14) M. Ruck, Acta Crystallogr. Sect. B **52**, 605 (1996). *
(15) M. Ruck, Solid State Sci. **3**, 369 (2001). * (16) B. Hunter,
Comm. Powder Diffr. Newslett. **20**, 21 (1998). * (17) A. F. Ioffe and
A. R. Regel, Prog. Semicond. **4**, 237 (1961). * (18) V. N. Zverev, A.
V. Korobenko, G. L. Sun, D. L. Sun, C. T. Lin, and A. V. Boris, JETP
Lett. **90**, 130 (2009). * (19) H. Wiesmann, M. Gurvitch, H. Lutz, A.
Ghosh, B. Schwarz, M. Strongin, P. B. Allen, and J. W. Halley, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **38**, 782 (1977). * (20) Y. Fujimori, S. Kan, B. Shinozaki,
and T. Kawaguti, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **69**, 3017 (2000). * (21) K.
Fossheim and A. Sudbo, _Superconductivity: Physics and Applications_
(John Wiley, West Sussex, 2004). * (22) E. H. Brandt, Phys. Rev. B
**60**, 11939 (1999). * (23) S. Bhattacharya and M. J. Higgins, Phys.
Rev. B **49**, 10005 (1994). * (24) N. R. Werthamer, E. Helfand, and P.
C. Hohenberg, Phys. Rev. **147**, 295 (1966). * (25) A. M. Clogston,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **9**, 266 (1962). * (26) J. R. Clem, Phys. C
(Amsterdam) **162**, 1137 (1989); **164**, 1137 (1989). * (27) W. L.
McMillan, Phys. Rev. **167**, 331 (1968).
