Anomalous pseudogap and superconducting-state properties of heavily
disordered Y1-xCa_(x)Ba₂(Cu_(1 − γ)Zn_(y))₃O_(7 − δ)

S. H. Naqib

1IRC in Superconductivity, University of Cambridge, Madingley Road,
Cambridge CB3 0HE, United Kingdom

J. R. Cooper

2MacDiarmid Institute for Advanced Materials and Nanotechnology,
Victoria University and Industrial Research Ltd., P.O. Box 31310, Lower
Hatt, New Zealand

R. S. Islam

IRC in Superconductivity, University of Cambridge, Madingley Road,
Cambridge CB3 0HE, United Kingdom

J. L. Tallon

2MacDiarmid Institute for Advanced Materials and Nanotechnology,
Victoria University and Industrial Research Ltd., P.O. Box 31310, Lower
Hatt, New Zealand

Received 22 December 2004; published 18 May 2005

###### Abstract

The role of substantial in-plane disorder (Zn) on the charge transport
and ac susceptibility of Y1-xCa_(x)Ba₂(Cu_(1 − γ)Zn_(y))₃O_(7 − δ) was
investigated over a wide range of planar hole concentration p.
Resistivity _p_(_T_) for a number of overdoped to underdoped samples
with y >= 0.055 showed clear downturns at a characteristic temperature
similar to that found at _T_^(*) in Zn-free underdoped samples because
of the presence of the pseudogap. Contrary to the widely observed
behavior for underdoped cuprates at lower Zn contents (where the
pseudogap energy increases almost linearly with decreasing p in the same
way as for the Zn-free compounds), this apparent pseudogap temperature
at high Zn content showed very little or no p dependence. It also
increases systematically with increasing Zn concentration in the CuO₂
planes. This anomalous behavior appears quite abruptly, e.g., samples
with y <= 0.05 exhibit the usual _T_^(*)(_p_) behavior. AC
susceptibility of these heavily disordered samples showed the superfluid
density to be extremely low. We also discuss various possible scenarios
that might lead to an anomalous Zn-induced pseudogap in the cuprates.

2004 184510 10.1103/PhysRevB.71.184510

## I Introduction

One of the most widely studied phenomena in the physics of
high-temperature superconductors (HTS) is the _pseudogap phase_. [1, 2]
In the presence of a pseudogap (PG), various anomalies are observed in
both normal and superconducting (SC) states, which can be interpreted in
terms of a decrease in the quasiparticle density of states near the
chemical potential. [3] Various theoretical models have been proposed to
explain the origin of the PG. [4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12] But its
nature remains an unresolved issue up to now.

In this paper we report systematic studies of the transport properties
of Y1-xCa_(x)Ba₂(Cu_(1 − γ)Zn_(y))₃O_(7 − δ) We have measured the dc
resistivity, _r_(_T_), room-temperature thermopower, _S_[290 K], and ac
susceptibility (ACS) of a series of sintered and _c_-axis-oriented
crystalline films of Y1-xCa_(x)Ba₂(Cu_(1 − γ)Zn_(y))₃O_(7 − δ) compounds
with different levels of Zn, Ca, and oxygen contents. The aim of the
present study was to examine the transport properties of
YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) (Y123) at high Zn concentration as a function of hole
doping, extending from highly overdoped (OD) to underdoped (UD) states.
Pure Y123 with full oxygen loading (_d_ = 0), is only slightly OD;
further overdoping is achieved by substituting Y3+ by Ca2+. [13, 14] The
advantages of using Zn are (i) it mainly substitutes the in-plane Cu(2)
sites, thus the effects of planar impurity can be studied and (ii) the
doping level remains nearly the same when Cu(2) is substituted by Zn
enabling one to look at the effects of disorder at almost the same hole
concentration. [15, 16] Most of the studies on the effect of Zn on
charge transport of Y123 are limited to the range of UD to optimum
doping levels and at a moderate level of Zn substitution. Therefore,
study of the system in the OD region with high levels of planar defects
fills an important gap.

One interesting result of the present study is that, signs of a PG-like
anomaly are seen clearly in overdoped
Y1-xCa_(x)Ba₂(Cu_(1 − γ)Zn_(y))₃O_(7 − δ) but only in a highly
disordered (_y_ >= 0.055) state. This PG-like feature is almost
independent of oxygen deficiency d indicating that it is induced by
disorder and not by changing the hole concentration p.

## II Experimental details and results

Polycrystalline single-phase samples of
Y1-xCa_(x)Ba₂(Cu_(1 − γ)Zn_(y))₃O_(7 − δ) were synthesized by standard
solid-state reaction methods using high-purity (>99.99

Various normal and SC state properties including _T_^(*) (the PG
temperature) are highly sensitive to p and therefore it is important to
determine p as accurately as possible. We have used the room-temperature
thermopower, _S_[290 K], which varies systematically with p for various
HTS over the entire doping range extending from very underdoped to
heavily overdoped regimes. [18] Previous studies, following the findings
of Obertelli _et al._, [18] showed that _S_[290 K] does not vary
significantly with Zn in Y123 for d < 0.5. [16, 19] Accordingly, in this
doping range _S_[290 K] is still a good measure of p even in the
presence of strong in-plane potential scattering by Zn2+ ions. We have
also calculated p for all the samples using a generalized _T__(c)(_p_)
relation given by [14, 19, 20]

$$\frac{T_{c}(p)}{T_{c}(p_{\rm opt})} = 1 - Z(p - p_{\rm opt})^{2}.$$

For the Zn-free samples, Z and _p_opt take the usual, quasiuniversal
values of 82.6 and 0.16, respectively, [20] but these pa rameters
increase systematically with increasing in-plane disorder.[14, 19] Using
p values from S[290 K] and the experimental values of T_(c), a very good
fit of T_(c)(p) of the form of Eq. (1) was obtained for all the samples.
Figure 1 shows the case for
Y_(0.80)Ca_(0.20)Ba₂(Cu_(1 − γ)Zn_(γ))₃O_(7 − δ) sintered compounds.
There is a systematic shift of $p_{\rm opt}$ toward higher values (from
$p_{\rm opt}$=0.16 for the impurity-free case) and an increase in Z with
increasing Zn content. These findings have important consequences.
Increasing Z(y) implies the shrinkage of the p range over which the
compound is superconducting upon Zn substitution, and the shift of
$p_{\rm opt}(y)$ toward higher values implies that the superconducting
dome is displaced asymmetrically toward the OD side. This latter
feature,[21] we believe, is indicative of a fundamental difference
between the underdoped and overdoped regions, namely, the existence of
the pseudogap in the underdoped region and its absence in the overdoped
region.[3] From Fig. 1 it is also seen that SC is at its strongest at
p ∼ 0.186, as this remains the last point of SC at a critical Zn
concentration (defined as the highest possible Zn concentration for
which SC just survives considering all the possible doping states). This
has been reported earlier in other studies and the value p ∼ 0.19 is
indeed special at which the PG vanishes quite abruptly.[3, 4, 14, 19,
21, 22, 23, 24]

T_(c) was obtained from both resistivity and low field
($H_{\rm rms}$=0.1 Oe; f=333.3 Hz) ACS data. T_(c) was identified at
zero resistivity (within the noise level of ±10⁻⁶Ω) and at the point
where the line drawn on the steepest part of the diamagnetic ACS curve
meets the T-independent baseline associated with the negligibly small
normal-state (NS) signal. T_(c) values obtained from these methods agree
within 1 K for most of the samples.[19]

Patterned thin films with evaporated gold contact pads and high-density
(85-95

ρ(T, p) of two heavily disordered
Y_(0.80)Ca_(0.20)Ba₂(Cu_(1 − γ)Zn_(γ))₃O_(7 − δ) sintered samples is
shown in Fig. 2. As is standard practice,[25, 22] we have taken T^(*) as
the temperature at which resistivity starts to fall at a faster rate
with temperature than its high-temperature T-linear

Figure 2: Anomalous T^(*)(p) of (a) sintered
Y_(0.80)Ca_(0.20)Ba₂(Cu_(0.94)Zn_(0.06))₃O_(7 − δ) (S1), (b) sintered
Y_(0.80)Ca_(0.20)Ba₂(Cu_(0.94)Zn_(0.055))₃O_(7 − δ) (S2), and (c)
c-axis-oriented thin film of YBa₂(Cu_(0.92)Zn_(0.07))₃O_(7 − δ) (from
Ref. 28). Straight lines are drawn to locate T^(*). The thick vertical
lines show the p independence of T^(*).

behavior.[25] It is clearly seen from Fig. 2(a) that the evolution of
_r_(_T,p_) for the first y = 0.06 sample (S1) is different compared to
other Y1-Lac,Ba2(Cu0.982Zn0.13)O7-_b_ compounds with y < 0.05 [shown in
Figs. 3]. In this (S1) sample, there is a very large residual
resistivity (it violates the Mathiessen law, which predicts the residual
resistivity to increase at a rate proportional to the impurity
concentration, as found for samples with y < 0.05). Also even at fairly
high hole concentration, (_p_   0.180) _r_(_T_) is nonmetallic over the
whole experimental temperature range from 300 K. This may indicate
significant carrier localization induced by Zn in the CuO2 plane, but it
is difficult to assess the importance of extrinsic effects, such as
grain boundary resistance and the degree of porosity in the sintered
sample. The most striking feature of the _r_(_T,p_) data is the downturn
in resistivity at around 230 +- 5 K, almost independent of planar hole
concentration p. This downturn is somewhat masked for samples with
higher oxygen deficiency (smaller _p_) because of the stronger
nonmetallic behavior over the whole temperature range. These downturns
in the _r_(_T_) data are similar to those observed in samples with a PG
[see Figs. 3]. But in this sample it is unusual because (i) the PG-like
feature is observed in resistivity for a heavily overlooked sample
(_T_c=12 K, whereas _T_cmax 27.9 K for y = 0.06) and (ii) _T_* does not
seem to change with p. The former indicates the possibility of disorder
giving rise to this PG-like phenomenon, whereas the latter shows that,
in such a case, this feature is almost independent of planar hole
content p. In Fig. 2(b) we have shown the _p_-independent _T_* for
another heavily disordered compound (S2) from the _r_(_T_) measurements.
Although the nominal composition for S2 from a different batch was also
y = 0.06 and x = 0.20, from the value of _T_cmax(=32 K) we think that
the actual Zn concentration in the CuO2 plane is a little lower,
probably  5.5

To explore the matter further, we have searched the existing literature
extensively to find published transport data on heavily Zn-substituted
samples as a function of carrier concentration. Data with more than 5

Figure 3: Resistivity of (a) sintered Y0.80Ca0.20Ba(Cu0.982Zn0.13)O7−_β_

of Zn concentration and, at least in the ρ(T) measurements, it reveals
itself only in the highly disordered state. We discuss the possible
implications and origins of this anomalous PG in Sec. III.

The AC susceptibility (ACS) (expressed in emu/cm³) for both S1 and S2 is
shown as a function of p and magnetic field in Fig. 4. Once again quite
different features are seen for these two samples compared with other
sintered Y_(1 − x)Ca₈Ba₂(Cu_(1 − y)Zn_(y))₃O_(7 − δ) samples with y ≤
0.05 (see Fig. 5). First, the magnitude of the low-field ACS signal at
low-T is largely reduced for the y > 0.05 samples and shows a strong p
dependence, namely, the ACS signal reduces rapidly with the decrease of
hole content in the UD side. Both these features are absent for other
samples for up to 5

Zn is believed to destroy superconductivity on a local scale (of the
order of in-plane superconducting coherence length ξ_(ab)).[16, 30] This
seems to agree with ACS data for up to 5

Figure 4: (a) Low-field ($H_{\rm rms}$=0.1 Oe) ACS of sintered S1 as a
function of p, (b) low-field ACS of sintered S2 as a function of p, (c)
field dependence of the ACS of sintered S1 (p=0.205±0.004), and (d)
field dependence of the ACS of powdered S1 (p = 0.205±0.004).

Figure 5: (a) Low-field ACS of sintered
Y_(0.80)Ca_(0.20)Ba₂(Cu_(0.96)Zn_(0.03))O_(7 − δ) as a function of p,
(b) low-field ACS of sintered
Y_(0.95)Ca_(0.03)Ba₂(Cu_(1 − y)Zn_(y))₃O_(7 − δ) with different amounts
of Zn (p=0.192± 0.005 for these samples), (c) field dependence of the
ACS of sintered Y_(0.90)Ca_(0.10)Ba₂(Cu_(0.97)Zn_(0.03))₃O_(7 − δ) (p
=0.196±0.004), and (d) field dependence of the ACS of powdered
Y_(0.90)Ca_(0.10)Ba₂(Cu_(0.97)Zn_(0.03))O_(7 − δ) (p =0.196±0.004). The
first inter-grain coupling temperature is shown in (c).

Panagopoulos _et al._[31] from their London penetration depth
measurements on magnetically aligned powders (grains).

We summarize our findings regarding the PG in Fig. 6. For comparison we
have also shown T^(*)(p) for a number of Y1-xCaBa2(Cu1-yZn)3O7-δ
compounds obtained from some of our previous studies.[14; 19; 24] The
contrast in the evolution of T^(*)(p) between y > 0.05 samples and all
the other compounds is striking. For these very heavily disordered
systems T^(*)(p) is anomalous to say the least.

## III Discussion

The observed PG-like features for highly disordered
Y1-xCaBa2(Cu1-yZn)3O7-δ is surprising considering the widely held belief
that the energy scale of the PG is set by p, and T^(*)(p) either falls
below or merges with the T_(c)(p) line in the OD side. In a previous
magnetic susceptibility study, Cooper and Loram [33] observed a PG-like
feature in fully oxygenated sintered 7

It is fair to say that there are two main effects of Zn substitution for
Cu(2) in cuprates:[4; 19; 28; 36; 37] (i) Zn tends to localize carriers
in the CuO2 plane (depending on temperature and Zn content) and (ii) it
gives rise to _Curie-like magnetic moments_ possibly on the four
neighboring Cu sites (in the presence of short-range
antiferromagnetically correlated background). Recent ⁶³Cu NMR[38] and
inelastic neutron-scattering studies[39] suggest that Zn enhances the AF
correlation in Y123. There is growing evidence that an AF background
with short-range order does not exist in overdoped cuprates with
p > 0.19.[4] The situation in highly disordered samples could be
different, especially if there is phase segregation, and only a very
weak form of superconductivity is present. Under these circumstances
Zn-induced enhancement of short-range AF correlation might be a
possibility for highly disordered Y1-xCa1-xBa2(Cu1-yZn)3O7-δ
irrespective of the hole content. It is interesting to note that both
the effects of Zn substitution (enhancement of short-range AF
correlation or/and carrier localization in the CuO2 plane) can be
directly linked to the existence of the pseudogap. AF fluctuation has
been held widely responsible for (or at least partly contributing to)
the formation of the PG by various theoretical and experimental
studies.[4; 5; 40; 41] In another scenario, using the t-J model, strong
Coulomb repulsion has been taken as responsible for both pseudogap and
superconducting pairing.[42] In the VHS scenario,[43] the magnitude of
the pseudogap, similar to a "Coulomb-gap"[44] increases with increasing
Coulombic repulsion. Disorder leads to localization of carriers and thus
weakens the electrostatic screening, which, in turn, effectively
increases the Coulomb interaction. As Zn plays a similar role on carrier
transport in the CuO2 planes, it can give rise to a pseudogap in the VHS
scenario.

It is hard to reconcile any precursor-pairing picture with this
anomalous T^(*)(p). On the other hand, scenarios in which the PG
originates from correlations that are not related and compete with
superconductivity, can possibly offer an explanation. In the competing
correlations scenario T^(*)(p) and T_(c)(p) are detrimental to each
other and the growth of one is accompanied by the decrease of the other
(at least in the pure compounds). Kohno _et al._[45] have in fact shown
in their theoretical analysis that disorder can indeed strengthen one
competing phase (AF) significantly over the other (e.g.,
superconductivity).

The abrupt appearance of this anomalous PG-like feature in resistivity
as a function of disorder content is indicative of some sort of
threshold mechanism in action, consistent with some recent theoretical
studies.[5; 46] For example, in the study by Monthoux[5] it was shown
that as quasiparticle lifetime becomes shorter (with increasing
scattering by spin fluctuations), it starts to "feel" long-range
magnetic order even when only short-range correlations are present. The
quasiparticle mean-free path relative to the correlation length of the
short-range AF order determines the size of the pseudogap.

Figure 6: The _T-p phase diagram_. Unfilled symbols show the data from
Ref. [24] [where using Zn and magnetic field to suppress T_(c) we have
been able to track T^(*)(p) below T_(c0)(p) = T_(c)(p, x = 0, y = 0)].
Filled symbols represent anomalous T^(*). Straight lines are drawn as
guide to the eye. The dashed line represents the T_(c0)(p) of pure Y123
with $T_{\rm cmax}$=93 K. Sintered samples are denoted by s and the
c-axis thin films by f.

As the quasiparticle lifetime decreases with Zn, it is possible that at
a certain level of Zn in the CuO₂ plane the scattering rate becomes high
enough to dominate over the more gradual p-dependent scattering. Using
the Hubbard model, it was shown that a high scattering rate leads to the
removal of low-energy spectral weight.[46] In this scenario the local
Coulomb repulsion U is the important parameter. Heavy Zn substitution
increases the scattering rate, localizes quasiparticles, and might
effectively enhance U/t (where t is the nearest-neighbor hopping energy)
globally. Once U>8t, the pseudogap becomes insensitive to U and
therefore, should not show significant p dependence.[46]

Roughly speaking, the mean distance between Zn impurities l_(i) in the
CuO₂ plane is given by ∼r/$\sqrt[3]{\,}$z_(pl), where z_(pl) =3γ/2 and
r∼ 3.9 A is the distance between Cu atoms in the plane. For y=0.06,
l_(i)∼ 13 A, close to the value of the in-plane superconducting
coherence length, ξ_(ab)∼ 15 A. Also, when l_(i)∼ 13 A, two in-plane Cu
atoms separate a pair of Zn atoms approximately on average. This is
equivalent roughly to a situation where each in-plane Cu site contains
either a Zn atom or a localized magnetic moment at the neighboring Cu
atoms.[36] According to the _swiss cheese_ model proposed by Nachumi _et
al._,[47] charge carriers within an area of ∼πξ_(ab)² around each Zn
atom are excluded from the superfluid. Thus, when l_(i)∼ξ_(ab), it is
possible that the effect of Zn becomes a bulk phenomenon rather than a
local one at lower concentrations. This should imply that once the
distance between Zn atoms becomes comparable to a certain characteristic
length, abrupt changes in the various normal and superconducting state
properties take place.

Another quite strong possibility is that this apparently anomalous PG is
completely different and independent from its conventional counterpart.
The systematic behavior of T_(c)(p,y) (see Fig. 1), irrespective of Zn
content, supports this assumption. In this situation a conventional
T^(*)(p) should still exist for highly disordered samples. Here a much
stronger resistive feature due to the anomalous PG could obscure the
features associated with the conventional T^(*)(p) which can be detected
from the ρ(T,p) for less disordered compounds.

## IV IV. Conclusions

In summary, we have observed PG-like features in highly disordered
Y_(1 − x)Ca_(x)Ba₂(Cu_(1 − x)Zn_(x))₃O_(7 − δ) compounds from
resistivity measurements. Contrary to the situation for UD cuprates, the
PG temperature showed almost no p dependence over a wide range of hole
contents extending from the UD to the OD regions. The magnitude of this
anomalous T^(*)(p) depends only on the amount of Zn in the CuO₂ planes.
Both of these indicate that the origin of this PG-like feature is
in-plane disorder. The results reported in this paper lend support to
the ARPES works on optimally doped Bi-2212, where spectroscopic features
of the electron-irradiated disordered compound looked similar to those
of UD samples.[34] The ACS results of our heavily disordered
Y_(1 − x)Ca_(x)Ba₂(Cu_(1 − x)Zn_(x))₃O_(7 − δ) show the superfluid
density to be extremely low. This might be responsible for a possible
phase segregation into superconducting and nonsuperconducting regions
over macroscopic length scales. The anomalous T^(*) then might be a
characteristic feature of the nonsuperconducting phase.

## Acknowledgments

We thank J. W. Loram and C. Panagopoulos for helpful suggestions. S.H.N.
acknowledges financial support from the Commonwealth Scholarship
Commission (UK), Darwin College, Cambridge Philosophical Society,
Lundgren Fund, and the Department of Physics Cambridge University.
R.S.I. acknowledges financial support from Trinity College, Cambridge
and the Cambridge Commonwealth Trust (UK).

## References

* [*] E-mail address: shn21@cam.ac.uk * [2] B. Batlogg and C. Varma,
Phys. World **13**, 33 (2000). * [3] T. Timusk and B. Statt, Rep. Prog.
Phys. **62**, 61 (1999). * [4] J. W. Loram, K. A. Mirza, J. R. Cooper,
W. Y. Liang, and J. M. Wade, J. Supercond. **7**, 243 (1994). * [5] J.
L. Tallon and J. W. Loram, Physica C **349**, 53 (2001). * [6] P.
Monthoux, Phys. Rev. B **68**, 064408 (2003); cond-mat/ 0309552
(unpublished). * [7] V. B. Geshkenbein, L. B. Ioffe, and A. I. Larkin,
Phys. Rev. B **55**, 3173 (1997). * [8] V. J. Emery, S. A. Kivelson, and
O. Zachar, Phys. Rev. B **56**, 6120 (1997). * [9] J. Maly, B. Janko,
and K. Levin, Phys. Rev. B **59**, 1354 (1999). * [10] A. P. Kampf and
J. R. Schrieffer, Phys. Rev. B **42**, 7967 (1990). * [11] M. Langer, J.
Schmalian, S. Grabowski, and K. H. Bennemann, Phys. Rev. Lett. **75**,
4508 (1995). * [12] A. V. Chubukov, D. Pines, and J. Schmalian,
cond-mat/0201140 (unpublished). * [13] J. Schmalian, D. Pines, and B.
Stojkovic, Phys. Rev. Lett. **80**, 3839 (1998). * [14] G. V. M
Williams, J. L. Tallon, R. Michalak, and R. Dupree, Phys. Rev. B **57**,
8696 (1998). * [15] S. H. Naqib, Ph.D. thesis, University of Cambridge,
UK, 2003. * [16] H. Alloul, P. Mendels, H. Casalta, J. F. Marucco, and
J. Arabski, Phys. Rev. Lett. **67**, 3140 (1991). * [17] J. L. Tallon,
J. R. Cooper, P. S. I. P. N. de Silva, G. V. M. Williams, and J. W.
Loram, Phys. Rev. Lett. **75**, 4114 (1995). * [18] S. H. Naqib, R. A.
Chakalov, and J. R. Cooper, Physica C **407**, 73 (2004). * [19] S. D.
Obertelli, J. R. Cooper, and J. L. Tallon, Phys. Rev. B **46**, R14928
(1992). * [20] S. H. Naqib, J. R. Cooper, J. L. Tallon, and C.
Panagopoulos, Physica C **387**, 365 (2003). * [21] M. R. Presland, J.
L. Tallon, R. G. Buckley, R. S. Liu, and N. E. Flower, Physica C
**176**, 95 (1991). * [22] J. L. Tallon, C. Bernhard, G. V. M. Williams,
and J. W. Loram, Phys. Rev. Lett. **79**, 5294 (1997). * [23] J. L.
Tallon, J. W. Loram, G. V. M. Williams, J. R. Cooper, I. R.

Fisher, J. D. Johnson, M. P. Staines, and C. Bernhard, Phys. Status
Solidi B **215**, 531 (1999). * [23] J. W. Loram, J. Luo, J. R. Cooper,
W. Y. Liang, and J. L. Tallon, J. Phys. Chem. Solids **62**, 56
(2001). * [24] S. H. Naqib, J. R. Cooper, J. L. Tallon, R. S. Islam, and
R. A. Chakalov, Phys. Rev. B **71**, 054502 (2005). * [25] B. Bucher, P.
Steiner, J. Karpinski, E. Kaldis, and P. Wachter, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**70**, 2012 (1993). * [26] R. I. Fisher and J. R. Cooper, Physica C
**272**, 125 (1996). * [27] A. Carrington and J. R. Cooper, Physica C
**219**, 119 (1994). * [28] D. J. C. Walker, A. P. Mackenzie, and J. R.
Cooper, Phys. Rev. B **51**, R15653 (1995). * [29] R. B. Goldfarb, A. F.
Clark, A. I. Bragniski, and A. J. Panson, Cryogenics **27**, 475
(1987). * [30] S. H. Pan, E. W. Hudson, K. M. Lang, H. Eisaki, S.
Uchida, and J. C. Davis, Nature (London) **403**, 746 (2000). * [31] C.
Panagopoulos, J. R. Cooper, N. Athanassopoulou, and J. Chrosch, Phys.
Rev. B **54**, R12721 (1996). * [32] D. Shoenberg, _Superconductivity_
(Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, 1954). * [33] J. R. Cooper and
J. W. Loram, J. Phys. **1 6**, 2237 (1996). * [34] I. Vobornik, H.
Berger, M. Grioni, G. Margaritondo, L. Forro, and F. Rullier-Albenque,
Phys. Rev. B **61**, 11248 (2000). * [35] S. Zagoulaev, P. Monod, and J.
Jegoudez, Phys. Rev. B **52**, 10474 (1995). * [36] P. Mendels, J.
Bobroff, G. Colin, H. Alloul, M. Gabay, J. F. Marucco, N. Blanchard, and
G. Grenier, Europhys. Lett. **46**, 678 (1999). * [37] R. S. Islam, M.
Phil. thesis, University of Cambridge, UK, 2001. * [38] M.-H. Julien, T.
Feher, M. Horvatic, C. Berthier, O. N. Bakharev, P. Segransan, G.
Collin, and J.-F. Marucco, Phys. Rev. Lett. **84**, 3422 (2000). * [39]
Y. Sidis, P. Bourges, B. Keimer, L. P. Regnault, J. Bossy, A. Ivanov, B.
Hennion, P. Gautier-Picard, and G. Collin, cond-mat/ 0006265
(unpublished). * [40] H. Shimahara, Y. Hasegawa, and M. Kohmoto, J.
Phys. Soc. Jpn. **69**, 1598 (2000). * [41] T. Sakai and Y. Takahashi,
J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **70**, 272 (2001). * [42] B. Kyung, cond-mat/0101063
(unpublished). * [43] J. Bouvier and J. Bok, Physica C **341-348**, 871
(2000). * [44] A. L. Efros and B. I. Shklovskii, J. Phys. C **8**, L49
(1975). * [45] H. Kohno, H. Fukuyama, and M. Sigrist, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn.
**68**, 1500 (1999). * [46] David Senechal and A.-M. S. Tremblay,
cond-mat/0308625 (unpublished). * [47] B. Nachumi, A. Keren, K. Kojima,
M. Larkin, G. M. Luke, J. Merrin, O. Tchernyshev, Y. J. Uemura, N.
Ichikawa, M. Goto, and S. Uchida, Phys. Rev. Lett. **77**, 5421 (1996).
