Complete absence of isotope effect in YBa₂Cu₃O₇: Consequences for
phonon-mediated superconductivity

L. C. Bourne, A. Zettl, T. W. Barbee III, and Marvin L. Cohen

Department of Physics, University of California, Berkeley, California
94720

and Materials and Chemical Sciences Division, Lawrence Berkeley
Laboratory, Berkeley, California 94720

23 June 1987; revised manuscript received 8 July 1987

###### Abstract

YBa₂Cu₃O₇ has been prepared with enriched ¹³⁵Ba, ¹³⁸Ba, ⁶³Cu, and ⁶³Cu
isotopes. The superconducting transition temperature T_(c) is found to
be insensitive to the mass of the Ba and Cu atoms. This result, when
combined with earlier findings of no T_(c) shift for oxygen-isotope
substitution or rare-earth substitution, demonstrates the complete
absence of an isotope effect in YBa₂Cu₃O₇. The consequences of these
results for the applicability of phonon-mediated electron pairing
mechanisms are discussed.

## 1 Introduction

The
$T_{c  ture (midpoint) _Tc_ = 89.70 K, while the sample prepared with 65Cu has _Tc_ = 89.90 K. For Cu isotopes, we thus find _Tc_ (65Cu) - _Tc_ (63Cu) = 0.2 K. A similar shift is found if the onset temperature _Tc_ is used as the relevant transition temperature. A second and nearly identical set of experiments for Cu isotopes found a similarly small shift but of opposite sign.

Figure 2 shows resistance data for samples prepared from the two different Ba isotopes. The data indicate (midpoint) transition temperatures _Tc_ = 91.85 K and _Tc_ = 91.95 K for 135Ba and 138Ba, respectively. Hence, for the Ba isotopes we find _Tc_ (138Ba) - _Tc_ (135Ba) = 0.1 K. As with the Cu isotopes, we find no significant shift in _Tc_ by Ba isotope substitution. It is interesting to note that the Ba isotope samples shown in Fig. 2 have _Tc_'s approximately 2 K higher than the _Tc_'s corresponding to the Cu isotope samples. This difference is due only to the slightly different annealing conditions for the two sets of samples. 135Ba and 138Ba isotope samples prepared using exactly the same conditions as were used for the Cu samples of Fig. 1 were found to have _Tc_'s near 90.0 K, again with no significant shift between the Ba samples.

For \(a$ = 0.5, _Tc_ is expected to decrease by 1.0 and 1.4 K for the Ba
and Cu substitutions, respectively. However, our experiments demonstrate
that there exists no isotope shift for either Cu within 0.2 K or Ba
within 0.1 K in YBa2Cu3O7. Within these limits, we find for Cu isotopes
a = 0.07 and for Ba isotopes a = 0 +- 0.10.

The lack of an isotope effect in YBa2Cu3O7 for each of the elements may
be examined in the context of conventional phonon-mediated electron
pairing within the BCS theory. Here, we consider the possibility of
obtaining the observed null isotope shift for various strengths of the
electron-phonon coupling l. It is convenient to consider three ranges of
phonon coupling: l < 1.25, l > 15, and 1.25 < l < 15. Within these
ranges, we consider the limits on the parameters of the
electron-electron interaction that arise from the constraints of the
observed _Tc_ and the lack of an observed isotope effect.

For l < 1.25, two square-well solutions for _Tc_ and a can be obtained
analytically. The McMillan8 equation is representative of these
solutions which have the generic form

$$\begin{array}{l} {T_{c} \propto \alpha_{D}\exp\left[ {- 1/\Omega^{\bullet} - \mu^{\bullet}} \right]} \\ {a = \frac{1}{2}\,\left[ {1 - \left( \frac{\mu^{\bullet}}{\lambda^{\bullet} - \mu^{\bullet}} \right)^{2}} \right]} \\ \end{array},$$

where l = _l_/(1 + _l_), _m_* is the renormalized Coulomb interaction,
and o_(D) is the phonon cutoff frequency. The parameter a - 0 as _m_* -
l */2 or _m_* > l * (unphysical in a two square-well BCS phonon model).
For l < 1.25, this condition cannot be satisfied if _Tc_ = 90 K even for
the largest l in this range.

In the range l > 15, Kresin, Gutfreund, and Little9 used a 2 x 2 matrix
equation in the Matsubara representation and found the Allen-Dynes
result [10]$T_{c} = 0.18\lambda\frac{\mu^{\bullet}}{\Omega}$, where l is
the phonon frequency in an Einstein spectrum, and

λ_(eff) = λ[1.2(1 + 2.23μ^(•) + 1.08μ^(••))^(1/2) − 0.2 + 1.24μ^(••)2]⁻¹ .

Solutions of this equation where the Einstein spectrum is assumed to
represent an "average" phonon frequency yield a = 0 and _Tc_ = 90 K for
unphysically large values of l and _m_*.

An analytic expression for _Tc_ in the range 1.25 < l < 15 can be
obtained if a constant spectral function of the following form is used:

$$a^{2}F(\omega ) = \begin{cases} \lambda/2,\text{ if }0 < \omega < \Omega_{\text{max}}, \\ 0,\text{ otherwise}. \\ \end{cases}$$

This model with _m_* = 0 yields

T_(c) = Ω_(max)(e^(2/Ω) − 1)^(−1/2)/(2π)

if only a 1 x 1 Matsubara matrix is used. [10] This equation has the
same form as a numerical fit introduced by Kresin [11] for arbitrary l.
As shown in Fig. 3, Eq. (4) gives

Figure 3: _Tc_ vs _λ_ calculated numerically (broken curve), and from
the equation derived in the text (solid curves); (a) _α_max = 400 K, (b)
_α_max = 600 K, (c) _α_max = 800 K.

a reasonable representation of T_(c)(λ) for μ^(•) = 0 over a large range
of λ. Comparison of Eq. (4) for $\Omega_{\rm max}=$400, 600, and 800 K
is made with the numerical solution using the phonon spectrum described
below.

Since Eq. (4) is not valid for large μ^(•), we resort to a numerical
solution of the Eliashberg equations to search for an α = 0 and T_(c)=90
K solution. To do this, we have used a model phonon spectrum based on
the Raman data on YBa₂Cu₃O₇ of Hemley and Mao [12] assuming a constant
electron-phonon interaction. The Eliashberg equations were solved in the
Matsubara representation using large enough matrices to ensure
convergence. We calculated the isotope effect in this range of λ by
assuming the functional form T_(c) ∝ ααg(λ, μ^(•)), where g is evaluated
numerically. In this case, the isotope effect is given by

$$\alpha=\frac{1}{2}\left[1+\mu^{\bullet\frac{2}{d\ln g(\lambda,\mu^{\bullet})} }\right]\ .$$
(5)

Within this model, we find solutions to the Eliashberg equations with
T_(c)=90 K for all λ ≥ 2.9. However, when the entire phonon spectrum is
shifted to simulate the effect of isotope substitution, we find no
numerical solution that can yield α = 0 and T_(c) near 90 K. Therefore,
we simulate the substitution of a single element (Ba, Cu, or O) by
shifting only a portion of the phonon spectrum. For Ba or Cu
substitution, solutions with T_(c)=90 K and a within the experimental
limits exist. A solution for the oxygen-isotope shift places more
stringent constraints on λ and μ^(•) as will be discussed here. For ¹⁸O
substitution, the high-frequency phonon peaks seen by Batlogg
$\it{et}$$\it{et}$$\it{et}$ are shifted. Using these shifts, we find a
solution with α = 0 ± 0.02 but λ > 30. We note that since the phonon
density of states is taken from Raman spectra, only a subset of phonon
modes is used. Figure 4 shows the isotherm for T_(c)=90 K and the area
within which α = 0 ± 0.02 for simulated oxygen substitution. At large λ,
the value of μ^(•) for α = 0 appears to saturate in agreement with the
previous discussion for the strong-coupling limit. As is shown in Fig.
4, when shifting only log¹⁸ peaks there are no solutions with T_(c)=90 K
and α = 0 for λ < 15. For λ > 15, a solution can be found at λ ≈ 35 with
μ^(•) ≈ 0.47.

We have found that the complete absence of an isotope effect observed in
the high-T_(c) compound YBa₂Cu₃O₇ can still be explained within
conventional phonon-mediated electron pairing using a model that
simulates the effect of substituting isotopes of a single element.
However, the values of λ and μ^(•) which reproduce the experimental
results are restricted to unphysical ranges. Hence, it is unlikely that
superconductivity in YBa₂Cu₃O₇ can be explained by solely phonon-induced
electron pairing unless material properties are considered. [13] We also
note that because the Raman spectrum was used in the calculation,
long-wavelength phonons are over represented.

One of the authors (T.W.B.) wishes to thank K. J. Chang and J. P.
Carbotte for helpful discussions. This work was supported by National
Science Foundation Grant No. DMR83-19-024 (T.W.B. and M.L.C.), and by
the Director, Office of Energy Research, Office of Basic Energy
Sciences, Materials Sciences Division of the U.S. Department of Energy
under Contract No. DE-AC03-76SF00098. One of the authors (A.Z.)
acknowledges support from the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation.

## References

* [1] J. G. Bednorz and K. A. Muller, Z. Phys. B **64**, 189 (1986). *
[2] W. K. Wu, J. R. Ashburn, C. J. Torng, P. H. Hor, R. L. Meng, L. Gao,
Z. J. Huang, Y. Q. Wang, and C. W. Chu, Phys. Rev. Lett. **58**, 908
(1987); L. C. Bourne, M. L. Cohen, W. N. Creager, M. F. Crommie, A. M.
Stacy, and A. Zettl, Phys. Lett. A **120**, 494 (1987). * [3] J.
Bardeen, L. N. Cooper, and J. R. Schrieffer, Phys. Rev. **106**, 162
(1957); **108**, 1175 (1957). * [4] J. C. Swihart, IBM J. Res. Dev.
**6**, 14 (1962); J. W. Garland, Phys. Rev. Lett. **11**, 111, 114
(1963). * [5] D. W. Murphy, S. Sunshine, R. B. van Dover, R. J. Cava, B.
Batlogg, S. M. Zahurak, and L. F. Schneemeyer, Phys. Rev. Lett. **58**,
1888 (1987); P. H. Hor, R. L. Meng, Y. Q. Wang, L. Gao, Z. J. Huang, J.
Bechtold, K. Forster, and C. W. Chu, _ibid._ **58**, 1891 (1987). * [6]
B. Batlogg, R. J. Cava, A. Jayaraman, R. B. van Dover, G. A. Kourouklis,
S. Sunshine, D. W. Murphy, L. W. Rupp, H. S. Chen, A. White, K. T.
Short, A. M. Mujece, and E. A. Rietman, Phys. Rev. Lett. **58**, 2333
(1987); L. C. Bourne, M. F. Crommie, A. Zettl, H. zur Loye, S. W.
Keller, K. L. Leary,

Figure 4: Values of λ and μ^(•) for which T_(c)=90 K from numerical
calculations (solid curve) and from a two square-well model (dashed
curve). The shaded area represents solutions with α = 0 ± 0.02 found
numerically by shifting only the phonon spectrum peaks corresponding to
oxygen vibrations. An intersection of the solid curve with the shaded
area would indicate values of λ and μ^(•) consistent with
phonon-mediated superconductivity in YBa₂Cu₃O₇.

A. M. Stacy, K. J. Chang, M. L. Cohen, and D. E. Morris, _ibid._**58**,
2337 (1987). * Weber (1987)W. Weber, Phys. Rev. Lett. **58**, 1371
(1987). * McMillan (1968)W. L. McMillan, Phys. Rev. **167**, 331
(1968). * Kresin et al. (1984)V. Kresin, H. Gutfreund, and W. A. Little,
Solid State Commun. **51**, 339 (1984). * Allen and Dynes (1975)P. B.
Allen and R. C. Dynes, Phys. Rev. B **12**, 905 (1975). * Kresin
(1987)V. Z. Kresin, Bull. Am. Phys. Soc. **32**, 796 (1987); and
(unpublished). * Hemley and Mao (1987)R. J. Hemley and H. K. Mao, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **58**, 2340 (1987). * Phillips (1987)J. C. Phillips, Phys.
Rev. B **36**, 861 (1987).
