Pressure dependence of the superconducting critical temperature of HgBa
2Ca 2Cu 3O 8+y and HgBa 2Ca 3Cu 4O 10+y up to 30 GPa

D. Tristan Jover, R. J. Wijngaarden, H. Wilhelm, and R. Griessen

Department of Physics and Astronomy, Free University, De Boelelaan 1081,
1081 HV Amsterdam, The Netherlands

S. M. Loureiro and J.-J. Capponi

Laboratoire de Crystallographie, CNRS, Boite Postale 166, 38042
Grenoble, France

A. Schilling and H. R. Ott

Laboratorium fur Festkorperphysik, Eidgenossische Technische Hochschule
Honggerberg, 8093 Zurich, Switzerland

14 July 1995; revised manuscript received 20 November 1995

###### Abstract

By performing experiments on samples as pure as presently available, the
origin of the reported pressure-induced T_(c) values well above 150 K in
the mercury-based high-T_(c) superconductors has been investigated. For
HgBa2Ca2Cu3O5 +- (Hg-1223) maximum T_(c) values between 142 K and 146 K
are obtained under pressure up to 30 GPa, while for HgBa2Ca3Cu4O10+
(Hg-1234) T_(c) never exceeds 121 K. To verify the reproducibility
between different laboratories the pressure dependence of a sample from
the same batch as the sample on which Nunez-Regueiro reported a T_(c)
value of 157 K at 23.5 GPa has also been measured. Below 10 GPa the
agreement with his results is rather good and a possible explanation for
the disagreement above 10 GPa is given. It appears that the reported
high T_(c) values in non-single-phase Hg-1223 samples are due to the
presence of Hg-1234 phase impurities. Also some of the adopted
definitions of T_(c) have led to somewhat optimistic values of T_(c) :
The high-pressure results on Hg-1223 found in the literature are
therefore reviewed and reanalyzed. [S0163-1829(96)05830-4]

## I Introduction

The highest values for any superconducting transition temperature T_(c)
have been observed in HgBa2Ca2Cu3O8+- (Hg-1223) samples under very high
pressures.[1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6] Even at ambient pressure Hg-1223, which was
discovered by Schilling _et al._,[7] has set a new record value with a
T_(c) as high as 134 K. Gao _et al.[8]_ performed the first
high-pressure experiment on a Hg-1223 sample with at ambient pressure a
T_(c) of 135 K. Under hydrostatic conditions they measured the
superconducting transition resistively under pressure up to 1.7 GPa.
They observed an increase in T_(c) up to 138 K at a rate of 1.8 K/GPa.
These results are in very good agreement with those obtained by Klehe
_et al.[9]_ Using a BeCu high-pressure cell they applied under purely
hydrostatic conditions a pressure of 0.9 GPa on a Hg-1223 sample with at
ambient pressure a T_(c) of 134 K. Determining T_(c) from
ac-susceptibility measurements they observed an increase in T_(c) at a
rate of 1.7 K/GPa. In a subsequent experiment Gao _et al.[23]_ were able
to raise T_(c) above 150 K by applying a pressure of 18 GPa under
quasihydrostatic conditions. Applying still higher pressures[2, 3] they
even observed in one particular case superconductivity above 160 K at 31
GPa. Independently, Nunez-Regueiro _et al.[4]_ observed
superconductivity above 150 K at 23.5 GPa. Also Takahashi _et al.[5]_
were able to increase T_(c) above 150 K by applying pressure, although
in their case this high T_(c) value was already reached at 11 GPa. It is
very important at this point to determine whether the Hg-1223 phase
really is responsible for the observed high T_(c) values and not a
different superconducting minority phase (impurity phase) which could be
present. In an attempt to do this Ihara _et al.[6]_ measured the
pressure dependence of a sample with a single superconducting Hg-1223
phase and two other samples containing also the superconducting
HgBa2Ca3Cu4O10+- (Hg-1234) phase. Surprisingly, the single-phase Hg-1223
sample reached a maximum T_(c) of only 140 K at 13 GPa, while the
mixed-phase samples reached T_(c)’s of 150 K and 156 K at 25 GPa. From
these results Ihara _et al.[6]_ concluded that the high T_(c) values in
the mixed-phase samples are due to the presence of small amounts of
Hg-1234 and that under pressure Hg-1234 should have a much higher T_(c)
than Hg-1223. The main purpose of the present paper is to check whether
the T_(c) of _pure_ Hg-1234 can be raised above 150 K by performing
similar measurements on Hg-1234 samples which are as pure as presently
available.

In fact high-pressure measurements on Hg-1223 and Hg-1234 samples are
interesting for two other reasons. From the schematic crystal structure
of Hg-1223 and Hg-1234 shown in Figs. 1(a) and 1(b) it is obvious that
the CuO2 layers which are held responsible for superconductivity are not
all identical since they have different surroundings. Therefore, both
Hg-1223 and Hg-1234 have distinct inner (_i_) and outer (_o_) CuO2
layers, contrary to high-T_(c) compounds with only one (_n_ = 1) or two
(_n_ = 2) CuO2 layers per unit cell. While the copper atoms of the inner
CuO2 layer(s) have a fourfold oxygen coordination, the copper atoms of
the outer CuO2 layers have a fivefold coordination. As a result the
charge carrier density n_(h) and hence the intrinsic T_(c) may be
different for the inner and outer CuO2 layers.

The other reason for interest in these compounds is the relation between
the maximum T_(c) at any pressure and the number of CuO2 layers per
repeat unit. The general formula for the homologous series of the
mercury-based high-T_(c) superconductors is given by
HgBa2Ca_(n − 1)Cu_(n)O_(2n + 2 + γ) where n is the number of CuO2 layers
per unit cell. While some phenomenological models [10-12] predict a
monotonic increase of the maximum T_(c) for n = 1 up to n = 4, in the
related Bi2Sr2Ca_(n − 1)Cu_(n)O_(2n + 4 + γ) and
Tl2Ba2Ca_(n − 1)Cu_(n)O_(2n + 4 + γ) series the maximum T_(c) was
experimentally found to occur in the n = 3 compound under ambient
conditions. [13-15] but also under pressure. [16] At ambient pressure
the T_(c) of Hg-1223 is higher than that of Hg-1234. This could in
principle be due to nonoptimal doping of the Hg-1234 compound. Since
pressure generally increases the hole concentration, thereby increasing
doping, it is interesting to verify whether the maximum T_(c) under
pressure in the mercury-based compounds occurs for n = 3 or for n = 4.
Attempts to vary the doping level in Hg-1223 via substitution of mercury
by lead and oxygen anneals indicated [17] that the maximum T_(c) at
optimal doping in this compound is approximately 134 K.

This paper is organized as follows. In Sec. II two relevant
phenomenological models are considered: In the first model a homogeneous
charge distribution among all the CuO2 layers within a unit cell is
assumed while in the second model the possibility of an inhomogeneous
distribution is explicitly taken into account. After a description of
the sample preparation and the experimental details in Secs. III and IV,
high-pressure results on several _high-purity_ Hg-1223 and Hg-1234
samples are presented and discussed in Sec. V. These results are then
compared with existing data found in the literature. In order to do this
it is necessary to briefly consider the various definitions of T_(c) and
to use the same definition when comparing the results. Finally, a
possible scenario for the apparent discrepancy between the various
high-pressure experiments and the origin of the reported T_(c) values
well above 150 K is given.

## II Phenomenological Models

Since there is no microscopic theory for high-T_(c) superconductivity,
two simple phenomenological models are discussed in this section in
order to indicate which parameters could play an important role in
reaching higher T_(c)’s. Other approaches are possible, but these are
the most simple ones that contain the necessary elements. The discussion
of these models is based on the crystal structures shown in Fig. 1,
although it generally applies to other layered structures as well. In
the first model [18] it is assumed that the charge carriers or holes are
distributed equally between all the CuO2 layers within a unit cell
regardless of their number, while in the second model [19] the
possibility of a nonhomogeneous charge distribution among the
_inequivalent_ CuO2 layers in the n = 3 and 4 compounds is explicitly
taken into account.

In the _first_ model, that of Wheatley _et al._, [18]T_(c) is mainly
determined by the coupling between the CuO2 layers. All the CuO2 layers
within a unit cell are taken to be equivalent, resulting in a
homogeneous charge distribution, and only the coupling between
nearest-neighboring CuO2 layers is considered. The coupling between CuO2
layers within a unit cell is Λ_(i), while the coupling between the
adjacent outer CuO2 layers of neighboring unit cells is Λ_(o). Both
coupling parameters Λ_(i) and Λ_(o) are related to the interlayer
transfer integrals t_( ⊥ i) and t_( ⊥ o), respectively, and to the
intralayer exchange coupling parameter [20-23]J = 4t_(∥)²/U as follows:

$$\Lambda_{i,o}\!=\!\frac{t_{\perp i,o}^{2}}{J}\!=\!\frac{t_{\perp i,o}^{2}}{4t_ {\parallel}^{2}}\,U,$$
(1)

where t_(∥) is the intralayer transfer integral and U is the on-site
Coulomb repulsion.

For layered structures with one (n = 1) CuO2 layer per unit cell
Wheatley _et al._[18] give the following relation for T_(c):

T_(c)(1) = 2Λ_(o)c n_(h) ,
(2)

where c is a constant of order unity and n_(h) is the hole doping with
respect to half-filling, defined as the number of holes per CuO2 layer
and copper atom. At half-filling each copper site is occupied by a
single electron which leads to insulating behavior. Adding holes results
in an insulator-metal transition and superconductivity is experimentally
observed for [24]0.05 <  n_(h) <  0.27. Since Hg-1201 has a maximum
T_(c) of 98 K at optimal doping, [25, 26] substituting this value for
T_(c)(1) in Eq. (2) yields Λ_(o)c n_(h) = 49 K.

For layered structures with two (n = 2) CuO2 layers per unit cell the
following relation for T_(c) is found: [18]

T_(c)(2) = (Λ_(o) + Λ_(j))c n_(h) .
(3)

Figure 1: Idealized structures of (a) HgBa2Ca2Cu3O8+_(γ) (Hg-1223) and
(b) HgBa2Ca3Cu4O10+_(γ) (Hg-1234) with, respectively, three (n = 3) and
four (n = 4) CuO2 layers per unit cell. Both structures have
_inequivalent_ inner (i) and outer (o) CuO2 layers. While the copper
atoms of the inner CuO2 layer(s) have a fourfold oxygen coordination,
the copper atoms of the outer CuO2 layers have a fivefold oxygen
coordination.

Since Hg-1212 has a maximum T_(c) of 127 K at optimal doping,[9, 25]
substituting this value for T_(c)(2) (and for Λ_(o)cn_(h) the previously
found value of 49 K) yields Λ_(i)cn_(h)=78 K. Assuming that neither c
nor n_(h) change with the number n of CuO2 layers per unit cell[27]
implies that Λ_(i) is larger than Λ_(o). This is consistent with the
interlayer spacings.

For layered structures with three (n = 3) and four (n = 4) CuO2 layers
per unit cell the eigenvalue equations given by Wheatley _et al.[18]_
have to be solved. This leads to the following relations for T_(c):

$$T_{c}(3) = \frac{1}{2}(\Lambda_{o} + \sqrt{\Lambda_{o}^{2} + 8\Lambda_{i}^{2}})cn_{h}$$

and

$$T_{c}(4) = \frac{1}{2}(\Lambda_{o} + \Lambda_{i} + \sqrt{\Lambda_{o}^{2} + 5\Lambda_{i}^{2} - 2\Lambda_{o}\Lambda_{i}})cn_{h}\,.$$

Substituting in Eqs. (4) and (5) the values previously found for
Λ_(o)cn_(h) and Λ_(i)cn_(h) yields T_(c)(3) = 137 K for the n = 3
compound and T_(c)(4) = 143 K for the n = 4 compound. The fact that
ambient pressure experiments on the mercury-based high-T_(c)
superconductors show that the maximum T_(c) is reached in the n = 3
compound[28] implies that either Λ_(i) decreases or that optimal doping
is never reached in the n = 4 compound (conceivably because the charge
reservoir layer does not contain enough holes to optimally doped all the
CuO2 layers). Under pressure it is expected that T_(c) increases since
both Λ_(o) and Λ_(i) increase as the interlayer distances decrease.

In the _second_ model, that of Haines and Tallon,[19] the possibility of
a nonhomogeneous charge distribution among the _inequivalent_ CuO2
layers in structures with three (n = 3) or four (n = 4) CuO2 layers per
unit cell is explicitly taken into account. Their model is based upon
the assumption that each CuO2 layer behaves as a superconducting
structural unit with a well-defined intrinsic T_(c) which depends on the
charge carrier density n_(h) of the layer under consideration. In the
simplest case, T_(c) as a function of n_(h) follows the inverted
parabolic dependence[29, 30]

$$T_{c} = T_{\rm{cmax}}[ 1 - \beta(n_{h} - n_{h{\rm{max}}})^{2}\rbrack,$$

with[29]β = 82.6 and $n_{h{\rm{max}}} = 0.16$. Even though the values of
these parameters were obtained for La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO4 it has been
shown by Shafer and Penney[24] that they describe also the behavior of
other high-T_(c) superconductors. The pressure dependence of n_(h) for
most high-T_(c) superconductors[31] lies in the range
dn_(h)/dp = 0.001 − 0.04 holes per copper atom per GPa. More
specifically for Hg-1223, from a local-density-approximation (LDA)
electronic structure calculation Singh and Pickett[32] find a value of
dn_(h)/dp = 0.002 holes per copper atom per GPa for Hg-1223. For an
increase in pressure by 20 GPa (hence Δn_(h) = 0.04), a change
ΔT_(c) ≈ 16 K is calculated from Eq. (6) for a sample with initially
$T_{c} = T_{\rm{cmax}} = 120$ K, taking the parameter values mentioned
above. For $T_{c} \neq T_{\rm{cmax}}$, the change would be even larger.
Clearly, from this calculation the pressure-induced change in n_(h) has
a significant effect on T_(c) for Hg-1223; for Hg-1234 a similar
behavior is expected. Although in principle the parameters
$T_{\rm{cmax}}$, β, and $n_{h{\rm{max}}}$ may also change under
pressure, for the present discussion the exact shape of T_(c) as a
function of n_(h) is not essential and for simplicity will be referred
to in the rest of this paper as an inverted parabola.

The charge distribution among the inequivalent CuO2 layers is determined
by minimizing the sum of band and Madelung energies as described below
in more detail. Assuming that a _fraction_x of the total number δ of
holes transferred from the charge reservoir (the charge reservoir being
in this case the HgO3 layer) resides on the inner CuO2 layer(s), a
_fraction_1 − x has to reside on the outer CuO2 layers (see Fig. 1). In
this purely ionic model the total energy $U_{\rm{tot}}$ per unit cell is
defined as the sum of a band energy U_(b) and the Madelung energy
$U_{\rm{Mad}}$:

$$U_{\rm{tot}} = U_{b} + U_{\rm{Mad}}\,.$$

Since in this model the holes are noninteracting, the band energy U_(b)
for a particular CuO2 layer is given by

$$U_{b} = \frac{\pi\hbar^{\,2}}{2m^{\,\bullet}a^{2}}n_{h}^{2}\,,$$

where

$$n_{h} = \frac{x}{n - 2}\,\delta = n_{h}^{\rm{inner}}\,\,{\rm{for}}\,\,{\rm{the}}\,\,{\rm{inner}}\,\,{\rm{ CuO}}_{2}\,\,\,{\rm{layer}}({\rm{s}})$$

and

$$n_{h} = \frac{1 - x}{2}\,\delta = n_{h}^{\rm{outer}}\,\,{\rm{for}}\,\,{\rm{the}}\,\,{\rm{outer}}\,\,{\rm{ CuO}}_{2}\,\,\,{\rm{layers}},$$

since there are by definition two outer CuO2 layers and n − 2 inner CuO2
layers in a compound with more than two CuO2 layers per unit cell. In
Eq. (8), m^( •) is the effective mass of holes in a parabolic CuO2 band
while a is the lattice parameter of the _square_ CuO2 layer. The total
band energy is then the sum of contributions of all the CuO2 layers
within a unit cell. For the n = 3 and 4 structures the following
expressions are obtained:

$$U_{b}(x) = \frac{\pi\hbar^{\,2}}{2m^{\,\bullet}a^{2}}\,\delta^{2}\bigg{[} \frac{3\,x^{2}}{2} - x + \frac{1}{2}\bigg{)}\quad{\rm{for}}\,\,\,\,n = 3$$

and

$$U_{b}(x) = \frac{\pi\hbar^{\,2}}{2m^{\,\bullet}a^{2}}\,\delta^{2}\bigg{[} x^{2} - x + \frac{1}{2}\bigg{)}\quad{\rm{for}}\,\,\,n = 4\,.$$

Obviously, the total band energy alone leads to a homogeneous charge
distribution since the minimum occurs at x = 1/3 for n = 3 and at
x = 1/2 for n = 4. It is therefore the Madelung energy which is
responsible for nonhomogeneous charge distributions. As shown by Haines
and Tallon[19] the Madelung energy can be written as a function of δ and
x:

$$U_{\rm{Mad}} = \frac{e^{\,2}\delta}{2\,\epsilon S}[\,b_{0} + b_{1}\delta + (b_{2} + b_{3}\delta)x + b_{4}\delta x^{2}\rbrack,$$

where e is the electron charge, ϵ is the dielectric constant introduced
here to take into account all the charge carriers which are not included
in the parabolic CuO2 bands, and S is the average Wigner-Seitz radius.
The coefficients b_(i) only depend on the distribution of holes between
the copper and oxygen sites within the CuO2 layers and the crystal
structure. Both U_(b) and $U_{\rm Mad}$ and hence $U_{\rm tot}$ are
therefore a function of x. The charge distribution among the
inequivalent CuO2 layers is now found by minimizing $U_{\rm tot}$ with
respect to x. As a result

$$x_{\rm min} = \frac{1 - A_{p}(b_{2}/\delta + b_{3})}{3 + 2A_{p}b_{4}}\quad{\rm for}\;\;n = 3$$

and

$$x_{\rm min} = \frac{1 - A_{p}(b_{2}/\delta + b_{3})}{2(1 + A_{p}b_{4})}\quad{\rm for}\;\;n = 4,$$

where A_(p) is defined as

$$A_{p} = \frac{e^{2}}{\hbar^{2}}\frac{a^{2}}{\pi S}\frac{m^{*}}{\epsilon}$$

and $x_{\rm min}$ is the value of x for which $U_{\rm tot}$ is a
minimum. The charge carrier density of the inner and outer CuO2 layers
in Hg-1223 and Hg-1234 is therefore not the same. Assuming that δ
increases with pressure, the charge distribution between the
inequivalent CuO2 layers also changes as a function of pressure. In
passing note that the first model mentioned could easily be adapted in
order to take also the inequivalence of the CuO2 layers in compounds
with n > 2 into account.

## III Sample preparation and characterization

In this work the superconducting transition of several Hg-1223 and
Hg-1234 samples from Zurich (Z) and Grenoble (G) has been measured
resistively under very high pressure. The Hg-1223 sample from Zurich
will be denoted in the rest of this paper by Hg-1223 Z while the Hg-1223
samples from Grenoble will be denoted by Hg-1223 G1 and Hg-1223 G2,
respectively. In a similar way the Hg-1234 samples from Grenoble will be
identified as Hg-1234 G1 and Hg-1234 G2.

The sample Hg-1223 Z (containing 60

The samples Hg-1223 G1 and Hg-1223 G2 (both samples containing more than
95

## IV Experimental details

Using a cryogenic diamond anvil cell[39] (DAC), made entirely of
stainless steel, pressure is generated and applied to the samples. Its
principle of operation is based on pushing two parallel aligned diamonds
towards each other using a lever-based system. In this work 16-sided
diamond anvils are used with a culet (high-pressure face) diameter of
typically 0.85 mm. In order to reduce pressure gradients across the
edges of the culet, the diamonds are single beveled under an angle of
5deg. The diameter of the culet and bevel together is typically 1.2 mm.
Under these conditions resistive measurements up to pressures as high as
30 GPa are possible within this DAC.

In order to support the diamond anvils and to sustain the
quasihydrostatic pressures generated in the DAC a 100 μm thick stainless
steel foil, known as the gasket, is used. In the center of the gasket a
hole with a diameter of 300 μm is drilled which serves as sample space.
This space is then completely filled with sample material. In this case
the sample itself acts as its own pressure transmitting medium.
Depending upon the sample, the pressure medium may influence the T_(c)
vs p behavior as shown by Klotz and Schilling.[40] However, while Klotz
and Schilling[40] found a marked change in the T_(c) vs p behavior of a
Bi2Sr2CaCu2O8+, (Bi-2212) single crystal using a pressure medium and no
pressure medium at all, a study by van Eenige[41] shows that the use of
a pressure transmitting medium does not influence the measurement
noticeably if the sample is polycrystalline. For example, experiments on
YBa2Cu4O8 (Y-124) under quasi-hydrostatic conditions[42] and similar
experiments under hydrostatic conditions[43] gave practically the same
results for T_(c) vs p. Since the mechanical properties of Hg-1223 and
Hg-1234 lie intermediate between those of Bi-2212 and Y-124, the use of
a pressure medium is expected to have some influence, but not a drastic
one. Besides the sample material, several very small ruby chips are also
included in the sample space to allow a direct determination of the
applied pressure, also as a function of position on the sample. At 30
GPa, the pressure gradient Δp/p is at most 20

Pressure can be changed at any temperature simply by turning a knob at
the top of the cryostat. The applied pressure is determined _in situ_,
close to the superconducting transition of the samples, with the ruby
fluorescence method. After correction for the temperature-induced shift
of the ruby R1 fluorescence line [44] the calibration of Mao _et
al._[45] is used. For the excitation of the ruby an Ar +-ion laser is
operated at 514.5 nm. The fluorescence spectrum of ruby is then detected
with an optical multichannel analyzer (OMA).

The advantages of the ruby fluorescence method to determine the applied
pressure are manifold. For the purpose of this paper it is important to
note that it allows measuring pressure _in situ_ at _any_ temperature as
long as the position of the ruby R1 line is corrected for temperature.
This is an important improvement over the lead (Pb) manometer method
used by several other groups [1, 2, 4, 6] where the pressure has to be
determined at the superconducting transition temperature of Pb, close to
liquid helium temperatures. It is also an improvement over the method
where the pressure is determined from the pressure-induced phase
transitions in bismuth at room temperature. [1] Since the T_(c) values
of the Hg-1223 and Hg-1234 samples are much higher than the T_(c) value
of Pb and considerably below room temperature, and since pressure may
change significantly when changing the temperature in most high-pressure
generating apparatuses, this may lead to serious errors in determining
the applied pressure.

The temperature of the sample is measured using a standard platinum
resistor placed in a copper block in which one of the diamonds is
mounted. Since at low temperatures diamond has an even higher thermal
conductivity than copper, there is a good thermal contact between sample
and thermometer. To check for possible thermal gradients in the body of
the high-pressure cell two other platinum resistors are mounted
approximately 1 cm above and below the diamond anvils. The temperature
difference is found to be 0.6 K. Interpolated linearly, this corresponds
to a temperature difference across the sample of 3 mK.

The sample can be cooled by flowing liquid helium through a heat
exchanger at the bottom of the DAC while its temperature can be
increased by passing a current through a constantan wire heater, wound
around the high-pressure cell. In this way the temperature of the sample
can be varied continuously between 10 K and 300 K under control of a
temperature regulator.

The superconducting transition temperature T_(c) of the sample is
determined resistively using the standard four-probe technique. For this
purpose only four electrical leads to the sample are strictly needed. In
practice six leads are placed on top of one of the diamonds in order to
have two spare ones. These leads consist of flattened gold wires with a
diameter of 25 _m_m which are pressed onto the sample for electrical
contact. Since the gasket is placed on top of the gold wires, it has to
be insulated. This is done by gluing a thin kapton foil to the gasket
using a 1:1 mixture of Al2O3 powder with an average grain size of 0.05
_m_m and epoxy adhesive. The four-point resistance _R_(_T_) of the
sample as a function of temperature is then measured with a Keithley
2001 multimeter using a current of 1 mA.

## V Experimental results and discussion

In Figs. 2 and 3 typical superconducting transitions of the Hg-1223 and
Hg-1234 samples are shown at different pressures. Under pressure the
polycrystalline samples break up into smaller grains. Since the
intergrain boundaries are not superconducting, they are responsible for
residual resistances observed at temperatures below T_(c). After
subtraction of these residual resistances at 100 K for the Hg-1223
samples and at 90 K for the Hg-1234 samples, the superconducting
transitions are normalized with respect to their values at 160 K and 140
K, respectively. The values of the residual resistances RR and the
normal-state resistances R_(n) for Hg-1223 and Hg-1234 are given in
Table I. Under pressure the normal-state resistance above T_(c) often
changes from a metallic to a semiconducting behavior. In two samples
(Hg-1223 G1 and Hg-1223 G2) this semiconducting behavior is most clear
around 10 GPa and disappears at much higher pressures. This behavior is
usually ascribed to properties of the intergrain boundaries and is
therefore not related to superconductivity at all. The changing
background fortunately has only a very limited effect upon the
determination of T_(c). Even when under pressure some broadening occurs,
the superconducting transition remains clearly visible and well defined.

However, it is clear that due to broadening of the transition under
pressure different definitions of T_(c) may lead to significantly
different values of T_(c). In fact, the apparent discrepancy between the
T_(c) vs p results published so far by various high-pressure groups can
be partially attributed to different definitions of T_(c). Some of these
definitions are shown in Fig. 4. T_(t) is defined as the intersection of
the tangent through the inflection point of the resistive transition
with a straight-line fit of the normal state just above the transition.
T_(d) is obtained from the first derivative ∂R/∂T of the resistive
transition with respect to temperature. It is defined as the
intersection of the tangent through the point where ∂²R/∂T² has the
largest negative value with the extrapolation of the normal-state
behavior just above the transition. T_(v) is defined as the temperature
where ∂R/∂T starts to deviate from the approximately constant
high-temperature behavior.

Before proceeding with a discussion about the various high-pressure
results of other high-pressure groups, the results obtained in this work
for T_(t) and T_(d) will be presented now. While T_(t) is less sensitive
to paraconductivity and hence might be closer to the thermodynamic
T_(c), T_(d) is useful for comparison with the results published so far.
T_(c) can obviously not be identified with the true critical temperature
T_(c) since it is related to the onset of superconducting fluctuations
which may be considerable above T_(c) in these high-_T__c_ layered
compounds. The anisotropy of the mercury-based compounds lies
intermediate between those of YBa2Cu3O7 (Y-123) and the very anisotropic
bismuth-based compounds. [46]

In Fig. 5, T_(t) and T_(d) are shown as a function of pressure for the
three different Hg-1223 samples studied in this work. All the samples
exhibit a relatively large increase of T_(c) up to approximately 10 GPa.
At higher pressures T_(t) clearly continues to increase for Hg-1223 Z,
saturates for Hg-1223 G1, and decreases slightly for Hg-1223 G2. This
last sample is of the same batch as the sample measured by
Nunez-Regueiro _et al._[4] Their results are also included in Fig. 5(c).
Since they used T_(cv) as a definition of T_(c), their published results
have been reanalyzed in terms of T_(cd) to allow a meaningful
comparison. Although at low pressures there is a good agreement, at
pressures above 10 GPa the behavior is quite different. A possible
explanation is that the oxygen concentration is not the same in both
samples. During preparation of ceramic samples of typically 1 cm³ a
gradient in the oxygen concentration may develop. Hence, the small
grains of typically 10⁻ 5 cm³ used in high-pressure experiments can
differ in oxygen concentration, even when taken from the same batch.

In Fig. 6 most of the high-pressure results published so far on Hg-1223
samples are shown together with the results obtained in this work. Where
necessary the results have been reanalyzed in terms of T_(cd), again to
allow a meaningful comparison. In their original publication,
Nunez-Regueiro _et al._[4] used T_(cv) which is approximately 3 K higher
than T_(cd).

Figure 3: Superconducting transitions of (a) Hg-1234 G1 and (b) Hg-1234
G2 at different pressures. After subtraction of the residual resistance
at 90 K the superconducting transitions are normalized with respect to
their values at 140 K. Under pressure the normal-state behavior in
Hg-1234 G1 and Hg-1234 G2 changes from metallic to semiconducting.

Figure 2: Superconducting transitions of (a) Hg-1223 Z, (b) Hg-1223 G1,
and (c) Hg-1223 G2 at different pressures. After subtraction of the
residual resistance at 100 K the superconducting transitions are
normalized with respect to their values at 160 K. Under pressure the
normal-state behavior in Hg-1223 G1 and Hg-1223 G2 changes from metallic
to semiconducting and back to metallic.

For the discussion of the new high-pressure results on Hg-1223 presented
in this paper, now the T_(cd) values shown in Fig. 5 are used. The
results shown in Fig. 6 can roughly be divided into two groups: group
(a) where T_(c) does not exceed 148 K and group (b) where T_(c) reaches
values well above 150 K. Apart from the high-pressure results of
Nunez-Regueiro _et al._,[4] group (b) includes the results of Chu _et
al._,[1] Gao _et al._,[23] and the results of Ihara _et al._[6] on one
of the mixed-phase Hg-1223 samples. Considering the results of Ihara _et
al._[6] the high T_(c) values of group (b) could be explained, as they
pointed out, by the hypothesis that under pressure Hg-1234 has a higher
T_(c) than Hg-1223 and that hence the superconducting Hg-1234 minority
phase can short-circuit the rest of the sample. In order to verify
whether the T_(c) of Hg-1234 is indeed higher than that of Hg-1223, the
pressure dependence of _high-purity_ Hg-1234 has been measured. The
result is shown in Fig. 7. At ambient pressure the T_(c) of Hg-1234 is
considerably lower than that of Hg-1223. From resistive measurements a
T_(c) of 114−116 K (extrapolated values from the T_(c) vs p curves) is
found, while from ac-susceptibility measurements an average value of 115
K is obtained. Also under pressure the T_(c) of the Hg-1234 samples
remain lower than that of the Hg-1223 samples, in contradiction with the
hypothesis that under pressure Hg-1234 should have a higher T_(c) than
Hg-1223. Clearly, this conclusion is based on the high-purity Hg-1234
samples measured in this work. However, the possibility that the Hg-1234
minority phase in the experiment of Ihara _et al.[6]_ is of a different
composition or (being embedded in Hg-1223) experiencing a different
strain cannot be ruled out.

While comparison of all these results is difficult due to possibly
different pressure conditions, the results presented in this paper have
all been obtained under the same conditions, enabling a fair comparison.
Now the different behavior of T_(c) vs p in the Hg-1223 samples will be
discussed in terms of the model of Haines and Tallon[19] described in
Sec. II. In this model the inequivalence of the inner and outer CuO2
layers is explicitly taken into account. The total amount of doping δ of
all the CuO2 layers is partially due to oxygen off-stoichiometry and
partially due to pressure-induced doping, i.e., δ = δ_(y) + δ_(p). Using
the model of Haines and Tallon[19] the distribution of δ among the CuO2
layers is then found and hence also the charge carrier density
$n_{h}^{\rm inner}$ of the inner CuO2 layer(s) and $n_{h}^{\rm outer}$
of the outer CuO2 layers. Considering a layered structure with three
CuO2 layers per unit cell Fig. 8(a) shows as an example a possible
charge distribution satisfying the condition
$n_{h}^{\rm inner} + 2n_{h}^{\rm outer} = \delta$. Even though both
$n_{h}^{\rm inner}$ and $n_{h}^{\rm outer}$ increase linearly with δ,
the rate at which they do so is not the same. The intrinsic T_(c) of
each CuO2 layer follows now directly from the parabolic behavior shown
in Fig. 8(b) and the charge carrier density n_(h) of that

Figure 6: Pressure dependence of the superconducting transition
temperature T_(cd) of Hg-1223 obtained in this work (solid symbols) and
from the literature (open symbols). For the definition of T_(cd) see
Fig. 4. The results published by Nüñez-Regueiro _et al._ (Ref. 4) were
reanalyzed in terms of T_(cd). The remaining results are from the
following references: Chu _et al._ (Ref. 1) Gao _et al._ (Refs. 2,3),
Takahashi _et al._ (Ref. 5) and Ihara _et al._ (Ref. 6). The large
spread at high pressures is possibly due to a different oxygen
concentration of the samples. These results can roughly be divided into
two groups labeled group (a) and group (b).

Figure 7: Pressure dependence of the superconducting transition
temperature T_(ct) and T_(cd) of (a) Hg-1234 G1 and (b) Hg-1234 G2 up to
30 GPa. For the definition of T_(ct) and T_(cd) see Fig. 4.

layer. Since in Fig. 8(a) $n_{h}^{\rm inner}$ and $n_{h}^{\rm outer}$
are given as a function of δ, a relation for the intrinsic T_(c) as a
function of δ can be calculated for the inner and outer CuO₂ layers,
respectively. The result is a different parabolic function of T_(c) vs δ
for each kind of layer [see Fig. 8(c)]. If δ_(p) increases linearly with
pressure,[31] then δ=δ_(y)+αp which implies that the horizontal axis in
Fig. 8(c) can be replaced by a pressure axis. The starting point at
ambient pressure depends upon the actual value of δ_(y).

Under pressure the total doping δ of the sample increases and the T_(c)
of the sample as a whole will therefore follow from the two parabolas.
The resultant T_(c) will either be the maximum of the two curves (in
absence of proximity coupling) or intermediate between the two curves
(in presence of proximity coupling). In any case a complicated behavior
as a function of pressure is expected. This behavior can be even more
complicated, as depicted in Fig. 8(d), if the fact is taken into
account[35] that in general also $T_{c\rm max}$ increases with pressure.
The experimental results obtained in this work will now be interpreted
in terms of the model just described. In absence of proximity coupling,
the T_(c) of the sample as a whole follows the highest intrinsic T_(c)
of the superconducting CuO₂ layers. In Fig. 8(d) the parabolas labeled
"1" correspond to ambient pressure. If $T_{c\rm max}$ increases as a
function of pressure,[35] and if this increase is larger for the inner
CuO₂ layer, at higher pressures the parabolas labeled "2" and at still
higher pressures the parabolas labeled "3" are obtained. The various
experimental curves can now easily be reproduced if at ambient pressure
different values for δ_(y) and hence different starting points are
taken. The schematic curves shown in Fig. 8(d) are labeled according to
the corresponding experimental curves, where NR is used to represent all
the high-pressure results in group (b) of Fig. 6. From calculations
performed by Haines and Tallon[19] it appears that at low pressures the
T_(c) of the sample Hg-1223 Z is determined by the inner CuO₂ layer.
Above 14 GPa the total (ambient pressure plus pressure-induced) doping
of the sample has shifted to a point where T_(c) is determined by the
outer CuO₂ layers. Because of this, the T_(c) of Hg-1223 Z starts to
increase again above 14 GPa. At ambient pressure Hg-1223 G1 is at the
left-hand side of the left-hand parabola and even up to 25 GPa the
doping cannot be increased enough to follow the right-hand parabola. As
already mentioned in Sec. II, a saturation of T_(c) at higher pressures
could also mean that simply no charge carriers are available any more in
the charge reservoir layer. The sample Hg-1223 G2 is on the right-hand
side of the right-hand parabola, and after an initial increase due to
the increase of $T_{c\rm max}$ with pressure, the down-going slope
dominates and T_(c) decreases. The curve NR is at the most favorable
position: T_(c) increases both due to the increase of $T_{c\rm max}$ and
due to the shape of the parabola.

It is assumed here that $T_{c\rm max}$ increases at a faster rate for
the curves NR and G2 than for the other curves. This can be due either
to a larger $\partial T_{c\rm max}/\partial p$ for the outer CuO₂ layers
or to an enhanced T_(c) due to the presence of Hg-1234 phase impurities.
Such an enhancement of T_(c) by a secondary phase has previously been
observed by Raffy _et al.[47]_ in BiSrCaCuO superlattices. They report
that the T_(c) of multilayers consisting of ultrathin Bi-2212 layers
separated by metallic Bi-2201 layers is enhanced remarkably with respect
to single phase Bi-2212 films prepared under the same conditions.
Unfortunately the results of this high-pressure experiment cannot
discriminate between these two interpretations.

For Hg-1234 a comparison with the literature is not possible due to the
lack of other high-pressure experiments on Hg-1234. The pressure
dependence of the two Hg-1234 samples in Fig. 7 can be understood in a
similar way as discussed for Hg-1223 since Hg-1234 G1 behaves very much
like Hg-1223 G1 and Hg-1234 G2 like Hg-1223 G2.

At this point it must be emphasized that the scenario discussed above
yields a possible but not a necessary explanation of the observed
behavior in the mercury-based high-T_(c) compounds Hg-1223 and Hg-1234
under pressure.[48] The experiments on the Hg-1234 samples show clearly
that the Hg-1234 phase investigated in the present experiment cannot be
responsible for the pressure-induced enhancement of T_(c) in multiphase
materials to values well above 150 K. On the other hand, it cannot be
ruled out that another Hg-1234 phase (e.g., differently doped; a similar
case for Y-123 is discussed in Ref. [36]) is responsible. Another
possibility is that the Hg-1223 and Hg-1234 phases alternate on an
atomic scale in the mixed-phase samples. Then it is not inconceivable
that both the doping levels and internal strains are significantly

Figure 8: (a) Possible charge distribution among the inner and outer
CuO₂ layers in a layered structure with three CuO₂ layers per unit cell.
The charge carrier density $n_{h}^{\rm inner}$ on the inner CuO₂ layer
and $n_{h}^{\rm outer}$ on the outer CuO₂ layers has to satisfy the
condition $n_{h}^{\rm inner}$+$2\,n_{h}^{\rm outer}$=δ. (b) Parabolic
dependence of T_(c) upon the charge carrier concentration n_(h) needed
to calculate (c) the intrinsic T_(c)’s of the inequivalent CuO₂ layers
as a function of δ. (d) Possible explanation of the experimental results
obtained in this work assuming that $T_{c\rm max}$ also depends on
pressure.

different from the pure compounds, which in principle could result in
higher T_(c) values.

## VI Conclusion

Using a cryogenic diamond anvil cell the pressure dependence of the
superconducting critical temperature of Hg-1223 and Hg-1234 has been
measured resistively under quasibrostatic conditions up to 30 GPa. At
ambient pressure, these compounds with, respectively, three (_n_ = 3)
and four (_n_ = 4) CuO₂ layers per unit cell have T_(c)’s of 133−135 K
and 114−116 K. The results of several high-pressure experiments on
different samples of Hg-1223 and Hg-1234 show that at low pressures
T_(c) increases relatively fast, while at higher pressures T_(c) may
either increase further, saturate, or even decrease, depending on the
particular sample. This behavior can be explained in terms of a model
involving _inequivalent_ CuO₂ layers. From the high-pressure results
presented in this paper it appears that neither _pure_ Hg-1223 nor
_pure_ Hg-12234 on its own is responsible for the observed T_(c) values
above 145 K. Samples containing both superconducting phases, on the
other hand, have reached much higher values of T_(c).

###### Acknowledgements.

One of the authors (D.T.J.) would like to thank Dr. E. M. Haines for a
very pleasant collaboration and illuminating discussions during her stay
in Amsterdam and Dr. J. L. Tallon for his support and his interest in
high-pressure experiments. H.W. acknowledges the _Human Capital and
Mobility Program_ of the European Community under Contract No.
ERB-CHBICT 940952 for its financial support and the hospitality of the
Free University in Amsterdam. The efforts of Dr. D. G. de Groot have
been useful for the interpretation of the results presented in this
paper. This work is part of the research program of the Stichting voor
Fundamenteel Onderzoek der Materie (FOM) which is financially supported
by NWO. The work in Zurich was in part financially supported by the
Schweizerische Nationalfonds zur Forderung der Wissenschaftlichen
Forschung.

## References

* [1] C. W. Chu, L. Gao, F. Chen, Z. J. Huang, R. L. Meng, and Y. Y.
Xue, Nature (London) **365**, 323 (1993). * [2] L. Gao, Y. Y. Xue, F.
Chen, Q. Xiong, R. L. Meng, D. Ramirez, C. W. Chu, J. H. Eggert, and H.
K. Mao, Phys. Rev. B **50**, 4260 (1994). * [3] L. Gao, Y. Y. Xue, F.
Chen, Q. Xiong, R. L. Meng, D. Ramirez, C.W. Chu, J. H. Eggert, and H.
K. Mao, Phyica C **235-240**, 1493 (1994). * [4] M. Nunez-Regueiro,
J.-L. Tholence, E. V. Antipov, J.-J. Capponi, and M. Marezio, Science
**262**, 97 (1993). * [5] H. Takahashi, A. Tokiwa-Yamamoto, N. Mori, S.
Adachi, H. Yamauchi, and S. Tanaka, Physica C **218**, 1 (1993). * [6]
H. Ihara, M. Hirabayashi, H. Tanino, K. Tokiwa, H. Ozawa, Y. Akahama,
and H. Kawamura, Jpn. J. Appl. Phys. **32**, L 1732 (1993). * [7] A.
Schilling, M. Cantoni, J. D. Guo, and H. R. Ott, Nature (London)
**363**, 56 (1993). * [8] L. Gao, Z. J. Huang, R. L. Meng, J. G. Lin, F.
Chen, L. Beauvais, Y. Y. Sun, Y. Y. Xue, and C. W. Chu, Physica C
**213**, 261 (1993). * [9] A.-K. Klehe, J. S. Schilling, J. L. Wagner,
and D. G. Hinks, Physics C **223**, 313 (1994). * [10] C.-H. Eab and
I.-M. Tang, Phys. Lett. A **134**, 253 (1989). * [11] J. L. Birman and
J.-P. Lu, Phys. Rev. B **39**, 2238 (1989). * [12] C.-H. Eab and I.-M.
Tang, Phys. Rev. B **40**, 4427 (1989). * [13] M. Kikuchi, S. Nakajima,
Y. Syono, K. Hiraga, T. Oku, D. Shindo, N. Kobayashi, H. Iwasaki, and Y.
Muto, Physica C **158**, 79 (1989). * [14] K. A. Muller, in _Highlights
in Condensed Matter Physics and Future Prospects_, Vol. 285 of _NATO
Advanced Study Institute, Series B: Physics_, edited by L. Esaki (Plenum
Press, New York, 1991), p. 453. * [15] M. Di Staaio, K. A. Muller, and
L. Pietronero, Phys. Rev. Lett. **64**, 2827 (1990). * [16] D. Tristan
Jover, R. J. Wijngaarden, R. S. Liu, J. L. Tallon, and R. Griessen,
Physica C **218**, 24 (1993). * [17] A. Schilling, M. Cantoni, O.
Jeandupeux, J. D. Guo, and H. R. Ott, in _Proceedings of the 6th
International Symposium on Superconductivity ISS 93_, edited by T.
Fujita and Y. Shiohara (Springer-Verlag, Tokyo, 1994), p. 231. * [18] J.
M. Wheatley, T. C. Hsu, and P. W. Anderson, Nature (London) **333**, 121
(1988). * [19] E. M. Haines and J. L. Tallon, Phys. Rev. B **45**, 3172
(1992). * [20] C. L. Cleveland and R. Medina, Am. J. Phys. **44**, 44
(1976). * [21] G. Baskaran, Z. Zou, and P. W. Anderson, Solid State
Commun. **63**, 973 (1987). * [22] K. A. Chao, J. Spalek, and A. M.
Oles, J. Phys. C. **10**, L 271 (1977). * [23] A. H. MacDonald, S. M.
Girvin, and D. Yoshioka, Phys. Rev. B **37**, 9753 (1988). * [24] M. W.
Shafer and T. Penney, Eur. J. Solid State Inorg. Chem. **27**, 191
(1990). * [25] S. M. Loureiro (private communication). * [26] A.-K.
Klehe, A. K. Gangopadhyay, J. Diederichs, and J. S. Schilling, Physica C
**213**, 266 (1992). * [27] For a large number n of CuO₂ layers per unit
cell, however, the charge carrier density n_(h) of each layer may
actually decrease with increasing n. For n = 2 this effect is believed
to be negligible. * [28] B. A. Scott, E. Y. Suard, C. C. Tsuei, D. B.
Mitzi, T. R. McGuire, B.-H. Chen, and D. Walker, Physica C **230**, 239
(1994). * [29] J. L. Tallon and J. R. Cooper, in _Advances in
Superconductivity V_, edited by Y. Bando and H. Yamauchi
(Springer-Verlag, Tokyo, 1993), p. 339. * [30] R. P. Gupta and M. Gupta,
Phys. Rev. B **51**, 11 760 (1995). * [31] R. J. Wijngaarden, J. J.
Scholtz, E. N. van Eenige, and R. Griessen, in _Frontiers of High
Pressure Research_, Vol. 286 of _NATO Advanced Study Institute, Series
B: Physics_, edited by H. D. Hochheimer and R. D. Etters (Plenum Press,
New York, 1992), p. 399, and references therein. * [32] D. J. Singh and
W. E. Pickett, Physica C **233**, 237 (1994). * [33] S. N. Putilin, E.
V. Antipov, O. Chmaissem, and M. Marezio, Nature (London) **362**, 226
(1993).

* [34] E. V. Antipov, S. M. Loureiro, C. Chaillout, J.-J. Capponi, P.
Bordet, J.-L. Tholence, S. N. Putilin, and M. Marezio, Physica C
**215**, 1 (1993). * [35] R. J. Wijngaarden, E. N. van Enige, J. J.
Scholtz, and R. Griessen, Physica C **185-189**, 787 (1991). * [36] J.
J. Neumeier and H. A. Zimmermann, Phys. Rev. B **47**, 8385 (1993). *
[37] J. J. Neumeier, Physica C **233**, 354 (1994). * [38] C. C.
Almasan, S. H. Han, B. W. Lee, L. M. Paulius, M. B. Maple, B. W. Veal,
J. W. Downey, A. P. Paulikas, Z. Fisk, and J. E. Schirber, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **69**, 680 (1992). * [39] J. J. Scholtz, A. Driessen, R. van den
Berg, H. van Groen, H. Verhoog, J. J. de Kleuer, R. J. Wijngaarden, and
R. Griessen, High Press. Res. **5**, 874 (1990). * [40] S. Klotz and J.
S. Schilling, Physica C **209**, 499 (1993). * [41] E. N. van Enenige,
Ph.D. thesis, Vrije Universiteit, Amsterdam, 1991. * [42] J. J. Scholtz,
E. N. van Enenige, R. J. Wijngaarden, and R. Griessen, Phys. Rev. B
**45**, 3077 (1992). * [43] D. Braithwaite, G. Chouteau, G. Martinez, J.
L Hodeau, M. Marezio, J. Karpinski, E. Kaldis, S. Rusiecki, and E.
Jilek, Physica C **178**, 75 (1991). * [44] I. F. Silvera and R. J.
Wijngaarden, Rev. Sci. Instrum. **56**, 121 (1985). * [45] H. K. Mao, J.
Xu, and P. M. Bell, J. Geophys. Res. **91**, 4673 (1986). * [46] A.
Schilling, O. Jeandupeux, J. D. Guo, and H. R. Ott, Physica C **216**, 6
(1993). * [47] H. Raffy, S. Labdi, Z. Z. Li, H. Rifi, S. F. Kim, S.
Megtert, O. Laborde, and P. Monceau, Physica C **235-240**, 182
(1994). * [48] In fact the total doping δ (which is the sum of the
doping $n_{h}^{\rm inner}$ of the inner CuO₂ layers and
$n_{h}^{\rm outer}$ of the outer CuO₂ layers) increases as a function of
pressure. In the model of Haines and Tallon (Ref. [19]) either
$n_{h}^{\rm inner}$ and $n_{h}^{\rm outer}$ both increase as a function
of pressure or one increases while the other decreases (the total doping
δ always increasing with pressure). In the text it is assumed for
simplicity that both $n_{h}^{\rm inner}$ and $n_{h}^{\rm outer}$
increase with increasing δ. In the other situation a very similar
argument can be made.
