# BaPtSi₃: A noncentrosymmetric BCS-like superconductor

E. Bauer, R. T. Khan, H. Michor, and E. Royanian

Institute of Solid State Physics, Vienna University of Technology,
A-1040 Wien, Austria

A. Grytsiv, N. Melnychenko-Koblyuk, P. Rogl, D. Reith, and R. Podloucky

Institute of Physical Chemistry, University of Vienna, A-1090 Wien,
Austria

E.-W. Scheidt

Chemische Physik und Materialwissenschaften, Universitat Augsburg,
D-86159 Augsburg, Germany

W. Wolf

Materials Design s.a.r.l., 44 Avenue F.-A. Bertholdi, 72000 Le Mans,
France

M. Marsman

Department of Computational Materials Physics, Faculty of Physics,
University of Vienna, A-1090 Wien, Austria

###### Abstract

By investigations of phase relations in the alloy system Ba-Pt-Si at 900
^(∘)C we observe the formation of the compound BaPtSi₃, which
crystallizes in the noncentrosymmetric BaNiSn₃ structure type. Its space
group is _I4mm_ with the tetragonal lattice parameters a = 0.44094(2)nm
and c = 1.0013(2)nm for the arc-melted compound annealed at 900 ^(∘)C.
The characterization of the physical properties of BaPtSi₃ reveals a
superconducting transition at 2.25 K with an upper critical field at T =
0 K of  0.05 T. For analyzing the electronic structure,
density-functional theory calculations are performed yielding very good
agreement between theory and experiment for the structural properties.
From relativistic electronic-structure calculations, Fermi surface
nesting features are found for two characteristic double sets of bands.
The spin-orbit splitting of the relativistic electronic bands is in
general rather small at Fermi energy and, therefore, superconductivity
adheres to an almost undisturbed BCS state.

2009 064504 (2009) 1098-0121/2009/80(6)/064504(7) 064504-1

## I Introduction

The discovery of CePt₃Si (CePt₃B-type structure) as the first heavy
fermion superconductor without inversion symmetry [1] has initiated
widespread research activities in the field of unconventional
superconductors. Whereas CePt₃Si shows superconductivity already at
ambient pressure, a transition into a superconducting ground state of
the few further examples of this type, Ulr, [2] CeRhSi₃, [3] and CeIrSi₃
(Ref. [4]) was found only at applied hydrostatic pressures of 10-20
kbar.

Noncentrosymmetry (NCS) introduces an electrical field gradient in the
crystal and, thereby, creates a Rashba-type antisymmetric spin-orbit
coupling. [5] An inherent feature is then the mixing of spin-singlet and
spin-triplet Cooper-pairing channels which are otherwise distinguished
by parity. [5] This mixing of pairing states is expected to cause a
two-component order parameter.

Apart from heavy fermion properties, the occurrence of superconductivity
in materials without inversion symmetry deserves its own merit.
Therefore, we aim to find NCS superconducting materials without strong
correlations among d or f electrons. This may set the stage for reliable
electronic-structure calculations, proving the splitting of bands due to
missing inversion symmetry. Previous examples of superconductors without
strong electron correlation, where, however, NCS was not a central issue
of investigation, are binary R=La or Y, [6, 7, 8] or Cd₂Re₂O₇ with T_(c)
≈ 1 K. [9, 10]

More recently the solid solution Li₂(Pd,Pt)₃B was demonstrated to show
superconductivity. [11, 12] While Li₂Pd₃B is accounted for in terms of a
conventional BCS-like superconductor, Li₂Pt₃B refers to
unconventionality [12, 13, 14] presumably due to a very large spin-orbit
coupling. [15] A recent study on Li₂Pd₄Pt_(3 − x)B by muon-spin rotation
and specific heat, however, suggests that the whole series comprises
single-gap _s_-wave superconductivity. [16] The complex metallic alloy
Mg₂Al₃ also exhibits superconductivity in absence of inversion symmetry.
[17]

In a detailed investigation of phase relations of the system Ba-Pt-Si at
900 ^(∘)C, [18] the compound BaPtSi₃ was identified as a representative
of the noncentrosymmetric BaNiSn₃ type exhibiting a phase transition to
a superconducting state below 2 K. The present study aims to analyze and
understand the superconducting properties of BaPtSi₃ by deriving the
electronic structure from density-functional theory calculations in
order to demonstrate the antisymmetric, Rashba-type spin-orbit coupling.

## II Experimental

Alloys of BaPtSi₃ with a weight of about 1.5 g were prepared by arc
melting on a water-cooled copper hearth in Ti-gettered argon from
elemental ingots with a minimal purity of 99.9 mass

## III Computational aspects

The density-functional theory (DFT) calculations were done by using the
Vienna _ab initio_ simulation package (vasp) utilizing the projector
augmented wave construction for the pseudopotentials.[21] The potential
for Ba comprises 10 valence states including the 5s and 5p (semi)core
states, whereas for Pt and Si the standard number of valence states of
10 and 4, respectively, are included. For the approximation of the
exchange-correlation functional a local density approach (LDA) was
preferred over a generalized gradient approximation (GGA) because of the
heavy elements Ba and Pt. Comparisons of GGA and LDA results revealed
that the typical underestimation of the volume by LDA is smaller than
the corresponding overestimation by the GGA treatment. The size of the
basis set was defined by an energy cutoff of 500 eV. The radii (in A) as
chosen for the atom projections of the density of states (DOS) are 1.98
for Ba, 1.30 for Pt, and 1.11 for Si. Relativistic spin-orbit (SO)
coupling was included in a self-consistent manner. The structural
parameters (lattice parameters as well as atomic positions) were
optimized by total energy as well as force minimization within the SO
application. For the Brillouin zone integration a tetrahedron
interpolation for 216 k⃗ points in the irreducible part of the Brillouin
zone was used. Vibrational properties in terms of phonon dispersions and
the corresponding density of states were calculated within the direct
phonon approach.[22]

## IV Results and discussion

### Crystal chemistry

The crystal structure was determined from x-ray Rietveld refinement and
found to be a tetragonal, noncentrosymmetric structure, corresponding to
the space group _I4mm_, which is isotypic to BaNiSn₃ (as shown in
Fig. 1) being an ordered variant of the centrosymmetric ThCr₂Si₂
structure type. The tetragonal crystallographic (standardized) data are:
a =0.44094(2)nm and c =1.0013(3)nm; Ba is at the 2(a) site with
coordinates 0, 0, and 0.6022(8); Pt at the 2(a) site with 0, 0, and
0.2502(7); Si(2) at the 2(a) site with 0, 0, and 0; and Si(1) at the
4(b) site with 0, 0.5, and 0.3608(8).

### Superconductivity

Measurements of the temperature-dependent electrical resistivity of
BaPtSi₃ were carried out from 400 mK to room temperature, and the
results are shown in Fig. 2. The superconducting transition occurs at
T_(c) ≈ 2 K below which the resistivity vanishes.

The resistivity in the normal-state region for temperatures T  > T_(c)
corresponds to a metal and can be described by the Bloch-Gruneisen
model. The least squares fit is shown as a dashed line in Fig. 2
resulting in a Debye temperature of θ_(D)=345 K. An estimation of the
strength of the electron-phonon interaction can be derived in terms of
the McMillan formula.[23] McMillan’s model contains the dimensionless
electron-phonon coupling constant λ, which is–in terms of the Eliashberg
theory–related to the phonon density of states. The parameter λ
determines the attractive part of the Cooper pair bonding, while the
parameter μ^(⋆) represents the repulsive screened Coulomb part, which is
usually set to ≈ 0.13. Applying this simple model for BaPtSi₃ yields a
value of λ ≈ 0.5 characterizing a superconductor in the weak-coupling
limit.

The application of a magnetic field (see inset in Fig. 2) rapidly
suppresses superconductivity already at fields of a few tenth of a
tesla. A reduction in the superconducting transition temperature by an
initial rate of −0.06 K/kbar [inset in Fig. 2(b)] follows from the
pressure-dependent measurements of the electrical resistivity [shown in
Fig. 2(b)]. If the Debye temperature remains constant under pressure,
the flattening of features of the electronic density of states at the
Fermi energy upon application of pressure results then in a decrease in
T_(c),[24] as observed for the vast majority of BCS superconductors.

Figure 3 shows the heat capacity of BaPtSi₃ below ≈ 100 K, plotted in
terms of C_(p)/T vs T. A standard low-temperature approximation of the
heat-capacity data yields a Sommerfeld value of γ^(∞) .57 mJ/mol K²,
while extended temperature ranges with a pronounced T³ dependence of the
specific heat are missing. The absence of a maximum in the C_(p)/T curve
below 100 K, however, refers to a rather large Debye temperature on the
order of at least 350 K. In fact, a simple Debye function, C_(D)(T),
when plotted as C_(D)/T vs T yields a global maximum for θ_(D) = 3.6
T(C_(p)/T[max]). At low temperatures, a small anomaly becomes evident;
in agreement with our resistivity data, bulk superconductivity around 2
K can be concluded. Details of the superconducting transition are
compiled in the inset of Fig. 3.

Idealizing the specific-heat jump to ensure entropy balance, the
superconducting transition temperature can be de

Figure 1: (Color online) Sketch of the crystal structure of BaPtSi₃.
Note the loss of centrosymmetry due to the arrangement of Pt and Si
atoms.

termined as T_(c)=2.25 K (inset in Fig. 3, vertical dashed line). The
idealized anomaly of the heat capacity ΔC_(p)/T(T=T_(c)) = 7.8 mJ/mol K²
results in the estimation of ΔC_(p)/(γ_(n)T_(c)) = 1.38, which is close
to the BCS value of ΔC_(p)/(γT_(c)) = 1.43. Furthermore, the BCS-type
superconductivity follows directly from the temperature dependence of
the specific heat C_(p)(T) in the superconducting state. The solid line
in the inset of Fig. 3 models C_(p)(T) by applying the generalized BCS
dataset of Muhlschlegel,[25] which is done without any adjustable
parameter. Except for the very low-temperature range below 500 mK, an
almost perfect agreement between the theoretical estimation and
experiment is observed, emphasizing a BCS-type superconductivity
corresponding to spin-singlet pairing and a fully gapped electronic
density of states right at the Fermi energy. The discrepancy observed in
the heat-capacity data at very low temperatures may either be due to
measurement problems or due to a tiny impurity effect: the maximum
contribution around 250 mK is only 1 mJ/mol K². The application of
external fields rapidly suppresses bulk superconductivity; accordingly,
a field of 0.01 T shifts T_(c) by about 0.25 K to lower temperatures,
while fields on the order of 0.05 T obviously inhibit superconductivity.
Thus, the initial slope of the upper critical field μ₀H_(c2)^(′)(T)
results in a value of −0.033 $\rm T/K$, which is substantially lower
than the value deduced from the resistivity data according to
μ₀H_(c2)^(′)(T)≈−0.1 $\rm T/K$.

Superconductivity in terms of the BCS model relies on the coupling of
electrons to lattice vibrations. Thus, the knowledge of the lattice
dynamics is of importance. An estimation of relevant phonon branches can
be derived from the specific-heat data analyzed in terms of a model
suggested by Junod _et al.[26, 27]_. In this model, the
temperature-dependent quantity (C_(p)−γT)/T³ allows a straightforward
inspection of deviations from the simple Debye model. The model phonon
spectrum, however, consists of a Debye spectrum overlaid by Einstein
branches with finite spectral widths, according to Ref. [28]. The
experimental data for BaPtSi₃ are shown in Fig. 4, referring to the left
axis of this graph. As already mentioned, there are significant
deviations from the Debye model as shown by the dotted line in Fig. 4,
justifying the inclusion of optical branches in terms of two
Einstein-type contributions. A least-squares fit according to Junod’s
model reveals a phonon spectrum F(ω) represented by the dotted lines in
Fig. 4 yielding a Debye temperature θ_(D)=370 K, as well as

Figure 3: (Color online) Temperature-dependent specific heat C_(p) of
BaPtSi₃, plotted as C_(p)/T vs T. The inset shows low-temperature
details of the superconducting transition for various values of
externally applied magnetic fields. The solid line represents the
temperature-dependent specific heat of a spin-singlet fully gapped
superconductor according to the model of Muhlschlegel, Ref. [25].

Figure 2: (Color online) Panel (a) shows the temperature-dependent
electrical resistivity ρ of BaPtSi₃. The dashed line denotes a
least-squares fit according to the Bloch-Grüneisen law resulting in the
Debye temperature of θ_(D)=345 K. The inset shows the field response of
the superconducting transition as measured at various externally applied
magnetic fields. Panel (b) shows the temperature-dependent electrical
resistivity ρ of BaPtSi₃ measured at various applied pressures. The
inset shows the pressure dependence of the superconducting transition
temperature T_(c), initially varying as δT_(c)/ϕp=−0.06 K/kbar.

the Einstein modes ω_(E1)=43 K and ω_(E2)=128 K with frequency widths Δω
of 5 and 37 K, respectively. The corresponding spectral weights of these
contributions are 9, 0.5, and 5.5 for the Debye, the Einstein (1), and
the Einstein (2) modes, respectively. It may be speculated that the
low-lying phonon branches at 43 K are involved in the formation of
Cooper pairs. The Debye temperature deduced from this model almost
perfectly coincides with the value as derived from the resistivity fit.
The function $F_{\rm DFT}(\omega)/\omega^{2}$, where $F_{\rm DFT}$ is
the phonon density of states as calculated by DFT (see below), is shown
as a dashed line, demonstrating the usefulness of the model put forward
by Junod _et al._[26, 27]

Figure 5 reveals the temperature-dependent upper critical field values
μ₀H_(c2) for BaPtSi₃ as obtained from the Fermi energy E_(F). Energy
scale is defined relative to E_(F). Upper panel: DOS with SO coupling;
lower panel: DOS for scalar relativistic calculation. Total DOS (solid
lines) split into Ba like (dotted lines), Pt like (dashed-dotted lines),
and Si like (dashed lines) DOS summed over all three Si atoms.

Figure 4: (Color online) Temperature-dependent specific heat C_(p) of
BaPtSi₃, plotted as (C_(p) − γT)/T³ vs ln T. The solid line is a
least-squares fit of the experimental data using the model described in
the text and the dashed-dotted line represents a simple Debye
contribution with θ_(D)=370 K. The essential parameters of the model
used to construct the spectral function F(ω) (dotted lines, right axis),
are θ_(D)=370 K, ω_(E1)=43 K with a width of 5.3 K and ω_(E2)=128 K with
a width of 37 K. The DFT derived function
$F_{\rm DFT}(\omega)/\omega^{2}$ ($F_{\rm DFT}$ being the phonon density
of states as calculated by DFT) is shown as a dashed line, referring to
the second axis on the right-hand side.

Figure 6: (Color online) Section of total and atom-projected densities
of states (DOS; in states eV⁻¹) for BaPtSi₃ in the energy range ±2.5
around the Fermi energy E_(F). Energy scale is defined relative to
E_(F). Upper panel: DOS with SO coupling; lower panel: DOS for scalar
relativistic calculation. Total DOS (solid lines) split into Ba like
(dotted lines), Pt like (dashed-dotted lines), and Si like (dashed
lines) DOS summed over all three Si atoms.

is given by the expression ΔF(T) = F_(n) − F_(s) = μ₀H_(c)²(T)/2 =
$\int_{T_{c}}^{T}\int_{T_{c}}^{T^{\prime}}\frac{(C_{s}-C_{s})}{T}dT^{\prime}dT^{ \prime}$.
The quantity C_(s)(T) is obtained from the zero-field specific-heat
measurement whereas C_(n)(T) is obtained from the data corresponding to
0.1 T. The derived values are marked in Fig. 5 by shaded triangles; an
extrapolation to T → 0 yields an estimation of μ₀H_(c)(0) ≈ 0.018 T.

In the scope of the BCS theory, various microscopic parameters can be
calculated from superconducting and normal-state properties,[32] by
taking into account g =5.8 mJ/mol K2, μ₀H_(c2)^(′)=0.033 T/K,
μ₀H_(c2)(0) = −0.053 T, and ρ₀=6 μΩ cm. The effective Fermi surface
S_(s) is computed (Ref. [33]) as S_(s)^(el) ≃ 3 × 10²⁰ m⁻² within the
clean and S_(s)^(el) ≈ 1.2 × 10²¹ m⁻² for the dirty limit. Considering
the dirty limit only, the calculated μ₀H_(c2)^(′)(calc) = -0.026 T/K is
in fine agreement with the experimentally derived slope. Combining the
Fermi surface with g yields the Fermi velocity v_(F) = 162000 m/s, and
in the context of the residual resistivity, ρ₀=6 μΩ cm, a mean free path
l_(tr) = 7.7 × 10⁻⁸ m can be derived. The coherence length ξ₀ for T → 0
was obtained from two independent relations. One follows from the BCS
equation, ξ₀ = 0.18ℏv_(F)/(k_(B)T_(c)) ≃ 9.9 × 10⁻⁸ m. A second
expression stems from the well-known formula μ₀H_(c2) = Φ₀/(2πξ₀²),
yielding ξ₀ ≈ 7.9 × 10⁻⁸ m, in fair agreement with the former. The
thermodynamical critical field μ₀H_(c) follows from
γT_(c)² = 0.168μ₀H_(c)², thus μ₀H_(c) ≈ 0.017 T, in perfect analogy with
the experimental result. With the estimate H_(c2)(0) = 0.053 T one
derives a value for the dimensionless Ginzburg Landau parameter
$\kappa_{GL} = H_{c2}(0)/(\sqrt{2}H_{c}) \simeq 2.2$ which, in turn,
determines the London penetration depth λ_(L)(T → 0) ≃ 2.6 × 10⁻⁷ m.
Based on the estimate l_(tr)/ξ^(≈)0.1 we classify BaPtSi₃ as a
superconductor in the dirty limit, and the value of κ_(GL) ≃ 2 refers to
a type II superconductor.

## V V. DFT electronic structure

A section of the calculated electronic DOS of BaPtSi₃ is shown in Fig.
6, for both a nonrelativistic (lower panel) and relativistic (including
spin-orbit coupling) calculations (upper panel). The main difference
between these two calculations occurs at about −1.5 eV below the Fermi
energy, at which energies the scalar relativistic DOS splits into two
prominent peaks of mixed Pt d and Si p character. The spin-orbit
coupling most strongly affects the Pt-like states, which–due to
hybridization–transfer the relativistic effect to the Si-like states.
The states at the Fermi level are mainly composed of Si p and Pt 5d
states, as well as a smaller contribution from Ba p states.
Hybridization is clearly indicated by local DOS features, which are
common to all three atom-projected DOS contributions. Close to the Fermi
energy, E_(F), both calculations produce very similar and rather smooth
DOS features. None of the DOS exhibit significant features around E_(F),
indicating good metallic behavior. The values of the total DOS at E_(F)
are N(E_(F)) = 1.64 and 1.60 states eV⁻¹ for the SO and scalar
relativistic calculation, respectively. Within the lowest order
Sommerfeld expansion for the electronic specific heat C_(e), the derived
values for γ [γ = $\frac{\pi}{3}k_{B}N(E_{F})$ as defined by C_(e) = γT]
are 3.9 and 3.8 mJ/mol K2, respectively. Considering the experimentally
estimated value for the normal state, γ =5.8 mJ/mol K2, a phonon
enhancement factor of 1.5 is obtained, which is a reasonable value for a
weak-coupling BCS superconductor. Moreover, it perfectly matches the
value as derived via the McMillan model.

Figure 7 shows the electronic band structure with SO coupling (upper
panel) and without (lower panel). Switching on SO, the symmetry of bands
is reduced and degeneracies of scalar-relativistic bands are lifted, as
can be seen at the Γ point about 0.6 eV above E_(F): the degenerate
scalar-relativistic state (lower panel) splits into two states in the SO
case (upper panel) with a sizeable splitting of 0.5 eV. This particular
state is of Pt d character, and–because of the high nuclear charge of
Pt–the SO effect is significant. A further symmetry effect is the
splitting of each of the SO bands into two subbands (upper panel), which
is due to the missing inversion symmetry in real space. Focusing on
bands near Fermi energy, two sets of bands start at Γ with energies of
0.31 eV (bands 1,2) and 0.81 eV (bands 3,4). These bands cross the Fermi
energy in directions Γ-X, Γ-P, and Γ-N. Because bands 3,4 change their
directions and turn around, they cross two times the Fermi energy along
Γ-N and Γ-P. According to Fig. 7 the splitting of the bands crossing
E_(F) is rather small. However, studying the bands along other
directions such as the in-plane directions [100] and [010] reveals

Figure 7: Section of electronic band structure along high symmetry
directions for BaPtSi₃ in the energy range ±2.5 around the Fermi energy
E_(F). Upper panel: spin-orbit coupling included; lower panel: scalar
relativistic only. Brillouin zone, see Fig. 8.

a sizeable splitting of about 0.3 eV for bands 1 and 2 which recross
E_(F). These bands, however, result in very small isolated Fermi
surfaces [compare Figs. 8(a) and 8(c)]. A very important observation is
that no band crosses E_(F) along [001] (direction Γ-Z). This is directly
reflected in the shape of the Fermi surfaces: they are either of
dumbbell or of toruslike shapes with the c axis as rotation axis (see
Figs. 8 and 9). The three views of the Fermi surface of bands 1 and 2
(see Fig. 8) show a peculiar narrow funnel-shaped tube with its axis
along Γ-Z, presumably illustrating (rather isotropic) nesting features
corresponding to rather short K⃗ vectors. Because of the discussed rather
small band splittings due to the missing inversion symmetry, the Fermi
surface of band 2 is very similar to band 1 and is therefore not shown.
Concerning band 4 (Fig. 9), nesting can be imagined between parallel
surfaces in adjacent Brillouin zones, as illustrated by the side views
in the figure. These surfaces shape the outer side of the torus. The
corresponding nesting vector, however, is significantly larger than for
bands 1 and 2. Again, because of the rather small band splittings the
Fermi surface of band 3 is very similar to its counterpart of band 4,
and is therefore not shown. Finally, two additional bands below bands
1,2 form very thin ringlike Fermi surfaces (not shown here).

## VI Dft phonons

Figure 10 presents phonon dispersions along high symmetry directions in
q⃗ space, as well as the phonon density of states (PDOS). The PDOS
$F_{\rm DFT}$ is split into contributions of local atomic modes showing
that the low-frequency vibrational spectrum up to 4 THz is dominated by
the heavy atoms Ba and Pt. At higher frequencies the two well-separated
PDOS features between 5 and 6 THz, and above 7 THz can be attributed
almost exclusively to Si. According to analysis of the experimental
specific heat (see Fig. 4 and the accompanying discussion) two
Einstein-type modes are extracted, which correspond to frequencies of
ω_(E1)≈ 1 THz and ω_(E2)≈ 2.6 THz. The larger frequency mode coincides
with the lowest Einstein-type modes of the DFT phonon spectrum in Fig.
10, which is illustrated in Fig. 4 by showing
$F_{\rm DFT}(\omega)/\omega^{2}$. At the lower frequency ω_(E1) at which
the formation of Cooper pairs is suspected (see discussion in Sec. IV.2)
the function $F_{\rm DFT}(\omega)/\omega^{2}$ exhibits a peaklike
feature indicating a significant deviation from Debye’s model.

From the phonon dispersions it can be estimated that at 1 THz the
corresponding q⃗ values would correspond rather well to the diameter of
the hollow funnel-shaped dumbbells

Figure 8: (Color online) Fermi surface of band 1 (see text). (a) view in
direction Z-Γ; (b) view in direction [100]; (c) view in direction X-Γ.
Top left panel: Brillouin zone of the body-centered tetragonal lattice
for c>a.

Figure 10: (Color online) DFT-derived phonon dispersions and density of
states. The PDOS is split into contributions of local modes attributed
to Ba, Pt, and Si atoms.

Figure 9: (Color online) Fermi surface of band 4 (see text). (a) view in
direction Z-Γ; (b) view in direction [100]; and (c) view in direction
X-Γ.

formed by the Fermi surfaces of bands 1 and 2 according to Fig. 8,
indicating the coincidence of unusual phonon modes with electronic
nesting features. Similar features have been observed for BaPtGe₃.
Details will be the subject of a forthcoming paper.[34]

## VII Summary

BaPtSi₃ is a new noncentrosymmetric compound. Specific-heat and
electrical resistivity studies characterize BaPtSi₃ as a superconductor
with T_(c)=2.25 K. All experimental parameters and analyses point to a
BCS-like superconductivity, which is based on spin-singlet pairing with
a fully gapped DOS at E_(F). BaPtSi₃ is classified as a type II
superconductor in the dirty limit. The absence of inversion in the
crystal structure is suggested to give rise to anomalous features of the
superconducting state such as a mixing of spin-singlet and spin-triplet
pairs, as well as nodes in the superconducting gap at the Fermi
surface.[35, 36] Although our electronic-structure calculations evidence
a splitting of bands due to spin-orbit interactions, the overall effect
of noninversion symmetry seems to be of minor importance for the
superconducting properties. In this respect, BaPtSi₃ seems to be in line
with conclusions drawn for Li₂Pd₃.[14]

###### Acknowledgements.

Work was supported by the Austrian Science Foundation FWF under Projects
No. P18054 and No. P18480, as well as by the COST P16 program.

## References

* [1] E. Bauer, G. Hilscher, H. Michor, Ch. Paul, E. W. Scheidt, A.
Gribanov, Yu. Seropegin, H. Noel, M. Sigrist, and P. Rogl, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **92**, 027003 (2004). * [2] T. Akazawa, H. Hidaka, T. Fujiwara,
T. C. Kobayashi, E. Yamamoto, Y. Haga, R. Settai, and Y. Onuki, J.
Phys.: Condens. Matter **16**, L29 (2004). * [3] N. Kimura, K. Ito, K.
Saitoh, Y. Umeda, H. Aoki, and T. Terashima, Phys. Rev. Lett. **95**,
247004 (2005). * [4] I. Sugitani, Y. Okuda, H. Shishido, T. Yamada, A.
Thamizhavel, E. Yamamoto, T. D. Matsuda, Y. Haga, T. Takeuchi, R.
Settai, and Y. Onuki, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **75**, 043703 (2006). * [5] L.
P. Gor’kov and E. I. Rashba, Phys. Rev. Lett. **87**, 037004 (2001). *
[6] C. Krupka, A. L. Giorgi, N. H. Krikorian, and E. G. Szklarz, J.
Less-Common Met. **19**, 113 (1969). * [7] A. L. Giorgi, E. G. Sklarz,
N. H. Krikorian, and M. C. Krupka, J. Less-Common Met. **22**, 131
(1970). * [8] G. Amano, S. Akutagawa, T. Muranaka, Y. Zenitani, and J.
Akimitsu, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **73**, 530 (2004). * [9] M. Hanawa, Y.
Muraoka, T. Tayama, T. Sakakibara, J. Yamaura, and Z. Hiroi, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **87**, 187001 (2001). * [10] H. Sakai, K. Yoshimura, H. Ohno, H.
Kato, S. Kambe, R. E. Walstedt, T. D. Matsuda, Y. Haga, and Y. Onuki, J.
Phys.: Condens. Matter **13**, L785 (2001). * [11] K. Togano, P. Badica,
Y. Nakamori, S. Orimo, H. Takeya, and K. Hirata, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**93**, 247004 (2004). * [12] P. Badica, T. Kondo, and K. Togano, J.
Phys. Soc. Jpn. **74**, 1014 (2005). * [13] M. Nishiyama, Y. Inada, and
G.-q. Zheng, Phys. Rev. B **71**, 220505(R) (2005). * [14] H. Q. Yuan,
D. F. Agterberg, N. Hayashi, P. Badica, D. Vandervelde, K. Togano, M.
Sigrist, and M. B. Salamon, Phys. Rev. Lett. **97**, 017006 (2006). *
[15] K. W. Lee and W. E. Pickett, Phys. Rev. B **72**, 174505 (2005). *
[16] P. S. Hafliger, R. Khasanov, R. Lortz, A. Petrovic, K. Togano, C.
Baines, B. Graneli, and H. Keller, J. Supercond. Novel Magn. **22**, 337
(2009). * [17] E. Bauer, H. Kaldarar, R. Lackner, H. Michor, W. Steiner,
E.-W. Scheidt, A. Galatanu, F. Marabelli, T. Wazumi, K. Kumagai, and M.
Feuerbacher, Phys. Rev. B **76**, 014528 (2007). * [18] N.
Melnychenko-Koblyuk, A. Grytsiv, P. Rogl, E. Bauer, R. Lackner, E.
Royanian, M. Rotter, G. Giester, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **77**, Supplement
A, 54 (2008). * [19] T. Roisnel and J. Rodriguez-Carvajal, Mater. Sci.
Forum **378-381**, 118 (2001). * [20] E. Bauer, St. Berger, Ch. Paul, M.
Della Mea, G. Hilscher, H. Michor, M. Reissner, W. Steiner, A. Grytsiv,
P. Rogl, and E. W. Scheidt, Phys. Rev. B **66**, 214421 (2002). * [21]
G. Kresse and J. Furthmuller, Phys. Rev. B **54**, 11169 (1996); G.
Kresse and D. Joubert, _ibid._**59**, 1758 (1999). * [22] K. Parlinski,
phonon 4.25, 2005, as implemented in medea, Materials Design Inc.,
www.materialsdesign.com; K. Parlinski, Z.-Q. Li, and Y. Kawazoe, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **78**, 4063 (1997). * [23] W. L. McMillan, Phys. Rev.
**167**, 331 (1968). * [24] N. N. Bogoliubov, V. V. Tolmachov, and D. V.
Sirkov, Fortschr. Phys. **6**, 605 (1958). * [25] B. Muhlschlegel, Z.
Phys. **155**, 313 (1959). * [26] A. Junod, D. Bichsel, and J. Muller,
Helv. Phys. Acta **52**, 580 (1979). * [27] A. Junod, T. Jarlborg, and
J. Muller, Phys. Rev. B **27**, 1568 (1983). * [28] St. Berger, Ph.D.
thesis, TU Wien, 2003. * [29] M. Tinkham, _Introduction to
Supercondctivity_ (McGraw-Hill, New York, 1975). * [30] N. R. Werthamer,
E. Helfand, and P. C. Hohenberg, Phys. Rev. **147**, 295 (1966). * [31]
K. Maki, Phys. Rev. **148**, 362 (1966). * [32] T. P. Orlando, E. J.
McNiff, Jr., S. Foner, and M. R. Beasley, Phys. Rev. B **19**, 4545
(1979). * [33] U. Rauchschwalbe, Physica B & C **147**, 1 (1987). * [34]
E. Bauer, R. T. Khan, H. Michor, E. Royanian, A. Grytsiv, P. Rogl, D.
Reith, R. Podloucky, E. W. Scheidt, W. Wolf, and M. Marsman
(unpublished). * [35] P. A. Frigeri, D. F. Agterberg, A. Koga, and M.
Sigrist, Phys. Rev. Lett. **92**, 097001 (2004). * [36] N. Hayashi, K.
Wakabayashi, P. A. Frigeri, and M. Sigrist, Phys. Rev. B **73**, 092508
(2006).
