# Increased phase-breaking scattering rate in Zn-doped YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ)

J. Axnas, W. Holm, Yu. Eltsev, and O. Rapp

Department of Solid State Physics, The Royal Institute of Technology,
S-100 44 Stockholm, Sweden

13 July 1995; revised manuscript received 7 November 1995

###### Abstract

The in-plane resistance of two single crystals of
YBa₂(Cu_(1 − 0.01),Zn_(0.01x))₃O_(7 − δ), _x_=1 and 3.5, was measured in
magnetic fields up to 12 T parallel to the c axis at temperatures
ϵ=ln(_T_/_T_c_) up to about $\frac{1}{3}$. The coherence lengths and the
phase-breaking scattering time τ_(ϕ) were determined. ξ_(ab) and ξ_(c)
were both found to decrease with Zn doping, with a slow increase of the
anisotropy ratio ξ_(ab)/ξ_(c). The phase-breaking scattering rate
1/_T_(ϕ)_ increases strongly with increasing Zn concentration,
indicating that Zn causes pair breaking in YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ).

The origin of the strong effect on the superconducting transition
temperature, _T_(c)_, of doping Zn into YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ), is interesting
and controversial. For YBa₂(Cu_(1 − 0.01x)Zn_(0.01x))₃O_(7 − δ),
depression rates in the range − dT_(c)/dx = 10 + 2 K/

The starting point for the present work is the question if pair breaking
can be verified or disproved from studies of superconducting
fluctuations. If pair breaking is present, one would expect an increased
phase-breaking scattering rate, τ_(ϕ)⁻¹, leading to reduced
Maki-Thompson (MT) terms in the observed magnetoconductivity, Δσ(T, B)
[ = σ(T, B) − σ(T, 0)].

This idea is hampered by difficulties in analyzing the experimental
magnetoconductivity. First, in the temperature region where the
fluctuations are large, the MT contributions are a minor part of the
measured Δσ(T, B), and at higher temperatures the small fluctuations and
the strong temperature dependence of σ(T, 0) makes temperature
regulation in magnetic field a major limit to experimental precision.
Furthermore, in the clean limit of fluctuation theories, one can
determine only the product τ_(ϕ)^(′) from the MT terms. $\cal{S}$ is the
electron mean free path. Therefore additional assumptions about
$\cal{S}$ must be made in order to extract τ_(ϕ). Consequently the
errors in τ_(ϕ)⁻¹ determined from magnetoresistance are large.

In a recent study of fluctuations in the magnetoconductivity of Zn-doped
YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) it was concluded that Zn impurities do not act as
magnetic pair breakers.[7] Unfortunately this analysis was limited to
the small magnetic field of 1 T, and furthermore it is not clear what
the accuracy of the fitting parameters obtained was.

In the present paper we report on measurements and analyses of Δσ(T, B)
in YBa₂(Cu_(1 − 0.01x)Zn_(0.01x))₃O_(7 − δ) single crystals with _x_=1
and 3.5

Two samples of Zn-doped YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) were prepared by a self-flux
method as described previously.[13] Excess zinc oxide was carefully
mixed with powders of copper and yttrium oxides and barium carbonate.
Y₂O₃ stabilized ZrO₂ crucibles were used for crystal growing. Final
oxygen annealing was performed at 450 degC for a few days. Zn
concentration was determined from an analytical scanning electron
microscope, by averaging over several samples from the same batch. The
results of _x_=1 and 3.5

The midpoints of the resistive transitions and the widths of the
transitions were 85.6 K (0.2 K) for 1

Measurements were made with the current along the planes and the
magnetic field B∥${}_{\rm{c}}$ axis. The temperature was held constant
and the magnetic field was swept from 0→12→0→−12→0 T. A Pt thermometer
located 20 cm above the sample where Helmholtz coils cancelled the
magnetic field was used for temperature control. The temperature at the
sample position in zero field was measured with an Ir thermometer.
Temperature drift during one field sweep was typically below 40 mK. In
most cases it was possible to compensate for this since the temperature
drift was negligible during at least one half of the sweep.

The observed change of the conductivity in magnetic field, Δσ(B, T) was
analyzed by considering four contributions:
$$\Delta\sigma = \frac{1}{C}(\Delta\sigma_{\rm ALO} + \Delta\sigma_{\rm MTO} + \Delta\sigma_{\rm ALZ} + \Delta\sigma_{\rm MTZ}).$$

AL means Azlamasov-Larkin, MT Maki-Thompson, O is an orbital
contribution and Z a Zeeman term. C is a factor accounting for possible
sample deficiencies. C≥1 unless the resistivity is underestimated. C can
be estimated from the normal-state temperature derivative of the
electrical resistivity.[14] A summary of these formulas, including
references to the original work and some details of our fitting
procedures are given in Ref. 15. Inclusion of a nonlocal effect has been
suggested to be necessary;[16] however, adequate experimental support is
still missing and this contribution has seldom been considered.

Some results and an analysis from Eq. (1) are shown in Fig. 2. For each
sample three constants were determined; the coherence lengths ξ_(ab) and
ξ_(c) , and τ_(ϕ) . The accuracy of these results was investigated by
repeated analyses with different choices of C and the temperature
dependence of τ_(ϕ).

We first discuss the coherence lengths. The results for ξ_(ab) and ξ_(c)
were found to be rather stable in different analyses and can be
summarized as ξ_(ab) = 14± 1 A, ξ_(c) = 2 ± 0.5 A for 1.5

Contrary to our results, Semba and co-workers[7] found an increase in
both coherence lengths and a reduction of anisotropy with increasing Zn
concentration. We do not understand this difference but point out some
observations supporting our results.

In the clean limit ξ decreases with reduced impurity mean free path
$\diagup$$\diagup$i as (Ref. 17) ξ⁻¹ = ξ₀⁻¹ +
$\alpha\diagup$$In all calculations we have used \(v_{F}$= 2.1×10⁵ m/s.⁷
A different choice would not affect the qualitative conclusions, but
would change the scale of τ_(ϕ).

τ_(ϕ) was found to decrease strongly with Zn concentration, x, in each
of the analyses with different assumptions about τ_(ϕ)(T) and varying
choices of the C factor. A vanishing τ_(ϕ) implies large errors in the
phase breaking scattering rate and the results for dτ_(ϕ)⁻¹(x)/dx were
found to fall in a wide range from about 0.2 to 2×10¹⁴$\rm{s}^{-1}$
(%)⁻¹. The several different analyses made provide confidence in the
lower limit of the result: τ_(ϕ)⁻¹(x) increases with Zn doping by at
least 0.2× 10¹⁴$\rm{s}^{-1}$ (%)⁻¹. This value is significantly larger
than the increase of the transport relaxation rate;
$d\tau_{\rm tr}^{-1}(x)/dx$=4 × 10¹²$\rm{s}^{-1}$ (%)⁻¹ as estimated
from the observed resistivity. Thus we can safely separate the
concentration dependence of τ_(ϕ) from that in the parameter τ_(ϕ)^(′)
used in the fitting procedures.

Our results are firmly based on observations and Eq. (1). Figure 4 shows
the observed Δσ(T) at 12 T for x=3.5

Strong phase-breaking scattering by Zn impurities could be associated
with magnetic pair breaking, which in this case presumably would occur
through polarization of the Cu ions in the planes.²² One cannot simply
identify τ_(ϕ)⁻¹ with the pair-breaking rate in the Abrikosov-Gorkov
(AG) theory,²³ since the resulting depression, T_(c)(0) − T_(c)(x)=
ℏ π τ_(ϕ)⁻¹(x)/4 k_(B), would then be 10-100 times larger than the
observed rate and the observed resistivity increase is smaller than the
increase of the phase-breaking rate. With a temperature-dependent pair
breaking as in the Muller-Hartmann theory, the depression of T_(c) can
become much smaller than in the AG theory for certain ranges of the
ratio of T_(c) and the Kondo temperature.²⁴ The stronger increase of
τ_(ϕ)⁻¹(x) than of $\tau_{\rm tr}^{-1}(x)$ is unconventional, and
suggests that pair breaking is not necessarily observable in the
normal-state resistivity. A similar conclusion that Zn doping affects
different aspects of charge dynamics in the normal and superconducting
states was recently made from Hall effect studies.²⁵ Furthermore,
phase-breaking scattering of nonmagnetic origin cannot be

Figure 4: Excess conductivity at 12 T vs temperature for the 3.5

ruled out. Since the nature of the pairing state is not known, it is not
certain that magnetic scattering is pair breaking.

Summarizing, we have demonstrated by a number of different analyses of
the magnetoconductivity that τ_(ϕ) in Zn-doped YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ)
decreases strongly with Zn concentration. Consistent results for
τ_(ϕ),  ξ_(c),  ξ_(ab), and the anisotropy provide confidence in these
analyses. Thus Zn causes pair breaking in YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ). At present
we cannot ascertain the nature of this pair breaking.

We thank S. Zagoulaev and co-workers for communicating part of Ref. 8
prior to publication. This work has been supported by The Goran
Gustafsson Foundation, and by The Swedish Superconductivity Consortium.

## References

* [1] K. Remschnig, P. Rogl, R. Eibler, G. Hilscher, N. Pillmayr, H.
Kirchmayr, and E. Bauer, Physica C **153-155**, 906 (1988). * [2] Y.
Zhao, H. Zhang, and Q. Zhang, Physica C **162-164**, 47 (1989). * [3] T.
R. Chien, Z. Z. Wang, and N. P. Ong, Phys. Rev. Lett. **67**, 2088
(1991). * [4] H. Alloul, P. Mendels, H. Casalta, J. F. Marucco, and J.
Arabski, Phys. Rev. Lett. **67**, 3140 (1991). * [5] W. Sadowski, M.
Affronte, M. Francois, and E. Walker, Physica C **185-189**, 453
(1991). * [6] G. Ilonca, M. Mehbod, A. Lanckbeen, and R. Deltour, Phys.
Rev. B **47**, 15 265 (1993). * [7] K. Semba, A. Matsuda, and T. Ishii,
Phys. Rev. B **49**, 10 043 (1994); v_(F)= 2.1×10⁵ m/s was taken from A.
Matsuda and K. Semba, Physica C **185-189**, 797 (1991). * [8] S.
Zagoulaev, P. Monod, D. Prost, J. Jegoudez, C. Thivet, A. Perrin, and G.
Dousselin, Physica C **235-240**, 1333 (1994); S. Zagoulaev, P. Monod,
and J. Jegoudez, Phys. Rev. B **52**, 10 474 (1995). * [9] S. Kim, R. A.
Fisher, N. E. Phillips, and J. E. Gordon, Physica C **162-164**, 494
(1989). * [10] T. Takabatake and M. Ishikawa, Solid State Commun.
**66**, 413 (1988). * [11] M. W. Schafer, T. Penney, B. L. Olson, R. L.
Greene, and R. H. Koch, Phys. Rev. B **39**, 2914 (1989). * [12] R. E.
Walstedt, R. F. Bell, L. F. Schneemeyer, J. V. Waszczak, W. W. Warren,
Jr., R. Dupree, and A. Gencten, Phys. Rev. B **48**, 10 646 (1993). *
[13] Yu. Eltsev, W. Holm, and O. Rapp, Phys. Rev. B **49**, 12 333
(1994). * [14] B. Oh, K. Char, A. D. Kent, M. Naito, M. R. Beasley, T.
H. Geballe, R. H. Hammond, A. Kapitulnik, and J. M. Graybeal, Phys. Rev.
B **37**, 7861 (1988). * [15] W. Holm, O. Rapp, C. N. L. Johnson, and U.
Helmersson, Phys. Rev. B **52**, 3748 (1995). * [16] J. B. Bieri, K.
Maki, and R. S. Thompson, Phys. Rev. B **44**, 4709 (1991). * [17] E.g.,
R. Meservey and B. B. Schwartz, in _Superconductivity_, edited by R. D.
Parks (Dekker, New York, 1969), Vol. 1, p. 117. * [18]ℓ_(i) is not known
for our pure sample. However, assuming
$\ell^{-1}(x)\!=\!\ell_{\rm inel}^{(1)}(0)\!+\!\ell_{i}^{-1}(x)$, the
change in ξ with doping can be calculated. * [19] Yu. Eltsev and O.
Rapp, Phys. Rev. B **51**, 9419 (1995). * [20] Yu. Eltsev and O. Rapp
(unpublished). * [21] H. Shibata, K. Semba, A. Matsuda, and T. Yamada,
Phys. Rev. B **51**, 9294 (1995). * [22] A. V. Mahajan, H. Alloul, G.
Collin, and J. F. Marucco, Phys. Rev. Lett. **72**, 3100 (1994). * [23]
A. A. Abrikosov and L. P. Gorkov, Zh. Eksp. Teor. Fiz. **39**, 1781
(1960) [Sov. Phys. JETP **12**, 1243 (1961)]. * [24] E. Muller-Hartmann,
in _Magnetism V_, edited by H. Suhl (Academic, New York, 1973), p.
353. * [25] K. Mizuhashi, K. Takenaka, Y. Fukuzumi, and S. Uchida, Phys.
Rev. B **52**, R3884 (1995).
