Hall coefficient of La_(1.88 − y)Y_(y)Sr_(0.12)CuO₄ (y = 0,0.04) at low
temperatures under high magnetic fields

T. Suzuki and T. Goto

Department of Physics, Sophia University, 7-1 Kioi-cho, Chiyoda-ku Tokyo
102-8554, Japan

K. Chiba, M. Minami, Y. Oshima, and T. Fukase

Institute for Materials Research, Tohoku University, Sendai 980-8577,
Japan

M. Fujita and K. Yamada

Institute for Chemical Research, Kyoto University, Uji Kyoto, 610-0011,
Japan

Received 14 June 2002; published 30 September 2002

###### Abstract

The Hall coefficient in the low-temperature tetragonal phase and the
midtemperature orthorhombic phase of La_(1.88 − y)Y_(y)Sr_(0.12)CuO₄ (y
= 0,0.04) single crystals is measured under high magnetic fields up to 9
T in order to investigate the detailed behavior of the transport
properties at low temperatures in the stripe phase. When the
superconductivity is suppressed by high magnetic fields, the Hall
coefficient has negative values in low temperatures, and the temperature
region of the negative values spreads as increasing magnetic fields.
This result indicates that the Hall coefficient in the stripe phase
around x = 0.12 is a finite negative value, not zero.

pacs: 10.1103/PhysRevB.66.104528 + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL REVIEW
B **66**, 104528 (2002)

Various properties associated with the "1/8 probrem" have been
investigated over the last decade and yet this is one of the centers of
wide interest in high-$T_{\rm c}$ superconductors. Let us begin this
paper by reviewing something rather old. La_(2 − x)Ba_(x)CuO₄ (LBCO) and
La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄ (LSCO) show the local minimum of $T_{\rm c}$ around
x ∼ 0.12.[1, 2] It has been predicted that the disappearance in LBCO or
suppression in LSCO of the superconductivity is correlated with a
structural change:the structural phase transition from the
midtemperature orthorhombic phase (OMT, the space group Bmab) to the
low-temperature tetragonal phase (TLT, the space group P4₂/ncm) in LBCO
and the precursor of the transition in LSCO around x = 0.12.[3, 4] This
prediction is verified by analysis of the crystal structure in the
rare-earth-doped LSCO system, which undergoes a structural phase
transition to the TLT phase.[5, 6, 7] In addition to the disappearance
or suppression of the superconductivity, two related phenomena appear in
these system. One is magnetic order,[8, 9] and the second is anomalous
changes of transport properties, such as the Hall coefficient and the
thermoelectric power.[10, 11] It is suggested that the suppression of
the superconductivity around x = 0.12 will be related to not only the
crystal structure but also changes in the magnetic and electronic
states.

The recent development of this problem is followed from the "stripe
model."[12, 13, 14] According to this model, long-range-modulated charge
and spin ordering is stabilized in the TLT phase. Afterwards, magnetic
superlattice peaks are observed by neutron diffraction in the
orthorhombic superconducting phase La_(1.88)Sr_(0.12)CuO₄ single
crystal, while no peaks associated with charge ordering have been
observed.[15, 16, 17] Notwithstanding no signal of the charge ordering
by the scattering technique, the magnetic order affects the character of
the superconductivity in LSCO around x = 0.12.[18] Therefore, a change
in electronic states must appear more or less in the case of the
orthorhombic phase. It is necessary for a full understanding of this
problem to discuss changes in the electronic state and in the crystal
structure by investigating the detailed behavior of the transport
properties of the so-called stripe phase in the TLT phase and of the
magnetically ordered state in the OMT phase. More recently, Noda _et
al_. reported the temperature dependence of the Hall coefficient in the
stripe phase La_(2 − x − y)Nd_(y)Sr_(x)CuO₄.[21] However, the detailed
behavior of the Hall coefficient at low temperature below 25 K is
unknown yet. In this paper, we report the experimental results of the
temperature dependence of the Hall coefficient at low temperatures and
under high magnetic fields in the TLT and OMT phases.

The samples used in this work, La_(1.84)Y_(0.04)Sr_(0.12)CuO₄ (LYSCO)
and La_(1.88)Sr_(0.12)CuO₄ (LSCO), are single crystals grown by the
traveling-solvent-floating-zone (TSFZ) method under oxygen atmosphere.
The resistivity and Hall coefficient are measured by the usual
four-probe dc method. Six probes are put on one sample and the Hall
coefficient and the resistivity are measured simultaneously. Current and
magnetic field are reversed in each temperature to eliminate
thermoelectric voltage of lines and resistive voltage between Hall
probes. The typical size of the measured samples is ∼ 0.25×1 × 3 mm³.
The direction of the current (20 mA) is parallel to the CuO₂ plane and
magnetic fields are applied perpendicular to the CuO₂ plane. Neutron
scattering measurement in LYSCO is carried out using the KSD double-axis
spectrometer installed in the JRR-3M Guide Hall at the JAERI in Tokai,
Japan. The incident neutron beam has a wavelength of 1.53 A, obtained
using a PG(002) monochromator. The horizontal divergence of incident
neutron beam is 12^(′) and the acceptance angle of scattered beam is
30^(′). The sound velocity V_(s) is measured by the phase comparison
method with the ∼12 MHz longitudinal waves generated by the PZT
transducer. All measurements of the temperature dependence under
magnetic fields in this study were carried out with increasing
temperature after field cooling from 80 K in each time.

The dc magnetization measurement is carried out in the two samples by a
superconducting quantum interference device (SQUID) magnetometer. A
sharp superconducting transition is observed in both compounds, and the
transition temperature $T_{\rm c}$ is 17 K in LYSCO and 27 K in LSCO,
respectively.

The upper panel of Fig. 1 shows the temperature dependence of the
neutron scattering intensity at (300) position of
La_(1.84)Y_(0.04)Sr_(0.12)CuO₄. The index is defined as the notation in
the tetragonal (I4/mmm). The solid line is a guide for the eyes. As
decreasing temperature, the intensity begins to increases slightly at 90
K and shows a rapid increase at 65 K. Comparing with results of the
structural analysis in a similar rare-earth-doped LSCO system,[5, 6] two
structural phase transition temperatures are determined as $T_{\rm LO}$=
90 K and $T_{\rm LT}$ = 65 K in La_(1.84)Y_(0.04)Sr_(0.12)CuO₄.
$T_{\rm LO}$ is the structural phase transition temperature to the
low-temperature orthorhombic (OLT) phase, and $T_{\rm LT}$ is that to
the TLT phase. The lower panel in Fig. 1 shows the temperature
dependence of the longitudinal sound velocity $V_{\rm s}$ corresponding
to (c₁₁ + c₁₂ + 2c₆₆)/2 mode in La_(1.84)Y_(0.04)Sr_(0.12)CuO₄. On
cooling, $V_{\rm s}$ begins to decrease at 90 K and increases below 40
K. This type of change in $V_{\rm s}$ is the typical behavior around
$T_{\rm LT}$.[7, 22] The large change of $V_{\rm s}$ suggests that the
structural phase transition occurs in the bulk of this sample.

Elastic magnetic incommensurate peaks are comfirmed at 2.1 K in LYSCO.
In the two samples which undergo the structural phase transition to the
TLT phase, such as La_(2 − x − y)Nd_(y)Sr_(x)CuO₄ (Refs. 12-14 and 19)
and La_(1.875 − x − y)Ba_(x)Sr_(y)CuO₄ (Ref. 20), the existence of
magnetic and charge peaks are comfirmed by the elastic neutron
scattering. It is expected that the stripe phase appears in LYSCO at low
temperatures.[23]

Figure 2 shows the temperature dependence of the Hall coefficient
$R_{\rm H}$ of LYSCO and LSCO. For comparison between the two compounds,
$R_{\rm H}$ is normalized by the value at 100 K, which is 0.0055 cm³/C
in LYSCO and 0.0052 cm³/C in LSCO. The arrow in Fig. 2 indicates the
structural phase transition temperature $T_{\rm LT}$ of
La_(1.84)Y_(0.04)Sr_(0.12)CuO₄. As decreasing temperature in 4 T,
$R_{\rm H}$ of LYSCO shows the drastic decrease below the vicinity of
$T_{\rm LT}$ and sign reversal occurs in the low-temperature region from
25 to 15 K. In orthorhombic LSCO, only a gradual decrease in $R_{\rm H}$
is observed below 50 K which is far above $T_{\rm c}$= 27 K, but no sign
reversal is detected. These experimental results seem to be commonplace,
since the anomalous change of $R_{\rm H}$ is observed in the TLT phase
but not in the OMT phase and $R_{\rm H}$ in the TLT phase goes to zero
at low temperatures as expected in the simplified stripe model.[21] In 9
T, however, the sign reversal of $R_{\rm H}$ in low temperatures is
enhanced. In LYSCO, the temperature range where the sign is negative
spreads and the absolute value at minimum point becomes larger, though
the temperature where $R_{\rm H}$ begins to fall is not changed in 9 T.
Surprisingly, in orthorhombic LSCO, sign reversal does appear below 20 K
though no change of the sign is observed in 4 T.

The discontinuous change of $R_{\rm H}$ at $T_{\rm LT}$, which is
observed in La_(2 − x − y)Nd_(y)Sr_(x)CuO₄ for x<1/8,[11, 21] does not
appear in LYSCO. It seems that the broadeness of the structural phase
transition vignettes the discontinuity in $R_{\rm H}$ at $T_{\rm LT}$.

Figure 3 shows the temperature dependence of $R_{\rm H}$ and the

Figure 1: Top: the temperature dependence of the neutron scattering
intensity at the (300) position in tetragonal notation. The solid line
is a guide for the eyes. Bottom: the temperature dependence of the
longitudinal sound velocity of La_(1.84)Y_(0.08)Sr_(0.12)CuO₄. Open
arrows in figures indicate structural phase transition temperatures. The
temperature $T_{\rm d1}$ is the structural phase transition temperature
from the high-temperature tetragonal phase to the midtemperature
orthorhombic (OMT) phase.

Figure 2: The temperature dependence of the Hall coefficient of
La_(1.88 − y),Y_(y)Sr_(0.12)CuO₄ (y = 0: open circles, y = 0.04: solid
circles) in 4 and 9 T. The arrow in the figure indicates the structural
phase transition temperature to the TLT phase in the case of y = 0.04.

resistivity ρ_(ab) of LYSCO in 4, 6, and 9 T. The anomalous change of
$R_{\rm H}$ becomes more significant as the superconducting transition
temperature is reduced by magnetic fields. With decreasing temperature,
$R_{\rm H}$ changes its sign and goes to zero along a curve similar to
the temperature dependence of ρ_(ab). Quantitatively, the temperature
where dρ_(ab)/dT becomes maximum coincides with that of −d$R_{\rm H}$/dT
in each magnetic field. Therefore, the reason that $R_{\rm H}$ goes to
zero from the negative side at low temperature is the superconductivity,
and the real behavior of $R_{\rm H}$ is concealed by zero resistivity.
We conclude that the Hall coefficient in the ground state of the stripe
phase of La_(1.84)Y_(0.04)Sr_(0.12)CuO₄ has a finite negative value when
the superconductivity is suppressed by magnetic fields. A similar
temperature and magnetic field dependence of $R_{\rm H}$ is reported in
La_(2 − x)Ba_(x)CuO₄ (x = 0.11) single crystal which undergoes a
structural phase transition to the TLT phase.[24]

Our measurement results are consistent with the new theoretical
calculation by Prelovsek _et al._[25] They reported a numerical
calculation within the t-J model and conclude that $R_{\rm H}$< 0 for x<
1/8 and $R_{\rm H}$∼ 0 for x = 1/8 at T = 0 in the stripe phase.

Here, we touch upon the recent report on measurements of $R_{\rm H}$ in
La_(2 − x − y)Nd_(y)Sr_(x)CuO₄.[21] They insist that $R_{\rm H}$ goes to
zero at low temperature in the stripe phase of x = 0.12 and that the
charge transport is one dimensional, but their measurement is stopped at
25 at which $R_{\rm H}$ changes its sign in LYSCO (Fig. 3). Measurements
below 25 K under high magnetic fields should be carried out in order to
discuss the behavior in the ground state of the stripe phase.

Figure 4 shows the temperature dependence of the Hall coefficient and
the resistivity of La_(1.88)Sr_(0.12)CuO₄ in various magnetic fields.
Sign reversal occurs in magnetic fields above 8 T. By analogy with the
discussion in the case of LYSCO, it is in consequence of the suppression
of the superconductivity by magnetic fields. This result indicates that,
also in the orthorhombic phase, $R_{\rm H}$ has a negative value at low
temperatures in the hole concentration of x∼ 0.12.

One thing which we would like to mention is that the origin of the
negative $R_{\rm H}$ is by no means the contribution of vortex dynamics.
The reason is as follows: (a) In high-$T_{\rm c}$ cuprates, sign
reversal of $R_{\rm H}$ in the vortex states tends to vanish with
increasing magnetic fields.[26, 27] The data in this study are contrary
to this tendency. (b) With decreasing temperature, $R_{\rm H}$ begins to
decrease at the vicinity of $T_{\rm LT}$ in LYSCO or at ∼ 50 K in LSCO
rather than $T_{\rm c}$, and changes its sign continuously in each
magnetic field. (c) In LYSCO, the sign reversal of $R_{\rm H}$ occurs
above $T_{\rm c}$ in zero field. (d) In polycrystalline samples of
LYSCO, this anomaly is significant around x = 0.115.[28] Therefore, we
conclude that the sign reversal observed in this study is an intrinsic
phenomenon in the stripe phase.

At last, we discuss the temperature dependence of the thermoelectric
power, which shows a similar temperature dependence.[10, 11] From the
fact that the anomalous change of the Hall coefficient and of the
thermoelectric power is the most significant around the hole
concentration of x = 0.12, the origin of this anomalous change will be
the same electronic state appearing below $T_{\rm LT}$. Therefore, the
thermoelectric power will show an enhancement of this anomaly in high
magnetic fields.

In summary, the Hall coefficient of La_(1.84)Y_(0.04)Sr_(0.12)CuO₄ and
La_(1.88)Sr_(0.12)CuO₄ is measured in high magnetic fields up to 9 T. In
the low-temperature tetragonal phase, with decreasing temperature, the
Hall coefficient decreases and changes its sign at low temperatures. In
the orthorhombic La_(1.88)Sr_(0.12)CuO₄, a sign reversal of the Hall
coefficient appears under high magnetic fields above 8 T. The anomalous
behavior of the Hall coefficient, which is the sign reversal, is
enhanced under the condition that the superconductivity is suppressed by
magnetic fields applied to a direction perpendicular to the CuO₂ plane.
Therefore, the Hall coefficient has a finite negative value in the
ground state of the stripe phase.

The Hall coefficient and resistivity in high magnetic fields were
carried out at the Center for Low Temperature Science, Tohoku
University. The authors are grateful to T. Nojima for measurement using
a superconducting magnet. This research was partially supported by the
Mistry of Education, Science, Sports and Culture, Grant-in-Aid for
Scientific Research on Priority Areas (Novel Quantum Phenomena in
Transition Metal Oxides), No. 12046256, 2000, and for Scientific
Research (C), No. 12040360, 2000.

Figure 4: The temperature dependence of the Hall coefficient and the
resistivity of La_(1.88)Sr_(0.12)CuO₄ in 4, 6, 8, and 9 T. Marks and
solid lines denote the Hall coefficient and the resistivity,
respectively.

Figure 3: The temperature dependence of the Hall coefficient and the
resistivity of La_(1.88)Y_(0.04)Sr_(0.12)CuO₄ in 4, 6, and 9 T. Marks
and solid lines denote the Hall coefficient and the resistivity,
respectively.

* (1) A.R. Moodenbaugh, Youwen Xu, M. Suenaga, T.J. Follcerts, and R.N.
Shelton, Phys. Rev. B **38**, 4596 (1988). * (2) H. Takagi, T. Ido, S.
Ishibashi, M. Uota, S. Uchida, and Y. Tokura, Phys. Rev. B **40**, 2254
(1989). * (3) J.D. Axe, D.E. Cox, K. Mohanty, H. Moudden, A.R.
Moudenbaugh, Youwen Xu, and T.R. Thurston, IBM J. Res. Dev. **33**, 382
(1989). * (4) T. Fukase, T. Nomoto, T. Hanaguri, T. Goto, and Y. Koike,
Physica B **166**, 1289 (1990). * (5) B. Buchner, M. Braden, M. Cramm,
W. Schlabits, W. Schnelle, O. Hoffels, W. Braunisch, R. Muller, G.
Heger, and D. Wohlleben, Physica C **185-189**, 903 (1991). * (6) M.K.
Crawford, R.L. Harlow, E.M. McCarron, W.E. Farneth, J.D. Axe, H. Chou,
and Q. Huang, Phys. Rev. B **44**, 7749 (1991). * (7) T. Suzuki, M.
Sera, T. Hanaguri, and T. Fukase, Phys. Rev. B **49**, 12 392 (1994). *
(8) I. Watanabe, K. Nishiyama, K. Nagamine, K. Kawano, and K. Kumagai,
Hyperfine Interact. **86**, 603 (1994). * (9) T. Goto, S. Kazama, K.
Miyagawa, and T. Fukase, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **63**, 3494 (1994). * (10)
M. Sera, Y. Ando, S. Kondoh, K. Fukada, I. Watanabe, S. Nakamichi, and
K. Kumagai, Solid State Commun. **69**, 851 (1989). * (11) Y. Nakamura
and S. Uchida, Phys. Rev. B **46**, 5841 (1992). * (12) J.M. Tranquada,
B.J. Sterlieb, J.D. Axe, Y. Nakamura, and S. Uchida, Nature (London)
**375**, 561 (1995). * (13) J.M. Tranquada, J.D. Axe, N. Ichikawa, Y.
Nakamura, S. Uchida, and B. Nachumi, Phys. Rev. B **54**, 7489 (1996). *
(14) J.M. Tranquada, J.D. Axe, N. Ichikawa, A.R. Moodenbaugh, Y.
Nakamura, and S. Uchida, Phys. Rev. Lett. **78**, 338 (1997). * (15) T.
Suzuki, T. Goto, K. Chiba, T. Shinoda, T. Fukase, H. Kimura, K. Yamada,
M. Ohashi, and Y. Yamaguchi, Phys. Rev. B **57**, R3229 (1998). * (16)
H. Kimura, K. Hirota, H. Matsumura, K. Yamada, Y. Endo, S.H. Lee, C.F.
Majkrzak, R.W. Erwin, G. Shirane, M. Greven, Y.S. Lee, M.A. Kastner, and
R.J. Birgeneau, Phys. Rev. B **59**, 6517 (1999). * (17) H. Kimura, H.
Matsushita, K. Hirota, Y. Endoh, K. Yamada, G. Shirane, Y.S. Lee, M.A.
Kastner, and R.J. Birgeneau, Phys. Rev. B **61**, 14 366 (2000). * (18)
T. Suzuki, Y. Oshima, K. Chiba, T. Fukase, T. Goto, H. Kimura, and K.
Yamada, Phys. Rev. B **60**, 10 500 (1999). * (19) M.V. Zimmermann, A.
Vigliante, T. Niemoller, N. Ichikawa, T. Frello, J. Madsen, P. Wochner,
S. Uchida, N.H. Andersen, J.M. Tranquada, D. Gibbs, and J.R. Schneider,
Europhys. Lett. **41**, 629 (1999). * (20) M. Fujita, H. Goka, K.
Yamada, and M. Matsuda, Phys. Rev. Lett. **88**, 167008 (2002). * (21)
T. Noda, H. Eisaki, and S. Uchida, Science **286**, 268 (1999). * (22)
S. Sakita, F. Nakamura, T. Suzuki, and T. Fujita, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn.
**68**, 2755 (1999). * (23) The anomalous change of the Hall coefficient
is more significant in LYSCO than in LSCO. Therefore, the whole argument
in this report is not affected even if there exists a residual
orthorhombic ( Pccn or OMT) phase at low temperature in LYSCO. * (24) T.
Adachi, T. Noji, and Y. Koike, Phys. Rev. B **64**, 144524 (2001). *
(25) P. Prelovsek, T. Tohyama, and S. Maekawa, Phys. Rev. B **64**,
052512 (2001). * (26) Y. Matsuda, S. Komiyama, T. Terashima, K. Shimura,
and Y. Bando, Phys. Rev. Lett. **69**, 3228 (1992). * (27) Y. Matsuda,
T. Nagaosa, G. Suzuki, K. Kumagai, M. Suzuki, M. Machida, M. Sera, M.
Hiroi, and N. Kobayashi, Phys. Rev. B **52**, R15 749 (1995). * (28) T.
Fukase, H. Geka, T. Goto, K. Chiba, and T. Suzuki, J. Low Temp. Phys.
**117**, 491 (1999).
