# Influence of carbon substitution on the heat transport in single
crystalline MgB₂

A. V. Sologubenko, N. D. Zhigadlo, S. M. Kazakov, J. Karpinski, and H.
R. Ott

Laboratorium fur Festkorperphysik. ETH Honggerberg, CH-8093 Zurich,
Switzerland

2 September 200420052 September 200420052 September 2004200523.00

###### Abstract

We report data on the thermal conductivity κ(T, H) in the basal plane of
hexagonal single crystalline and superconducting Mg(B_(1 − τ)C_(τ))₂
(κ=0.03, 0.06) at temperatures between 0.5 and 50 K, and in external
magnetic fields H between 0 and 50 K. The substitution of carbon for
boron leads to a considerable reduction of the electronic heat
transport, while the phonon thermal conductivity seems to be much less
sensitive to impurities. The introduction of carbon enhances mostly the
intraband scattering in the σ band. In contrast to the previously
observed anomalous behavior of pure MgB₂, the Wiedemann-Franz law is
valid for Mg(B_(0.94)C_(0.06))₂ at low temperatures.

pacs: 10.1103/PhysRevB.71.020501 + Footnote †: preprint:
R001-008-0121/2005/71(2)/020501(4)/23.00 + Footnote† : preprint : R001 − 008 − 0121/2005/71(2)/020501(4)/23.

magnetic field below about 5−10 kOe, but in higher fields, the κ values
for H∥c exceed those for H⊥c significantly (see the upper row in Fig.
2). For the carbon-doped samples, κ(H) depends only weakly on the field
orientation in all fields. Another striking observation across the
entire covered temperature range is the much weaker field-induced
enhancement of κ for the carbon-doped samples than for pure MgB₂. At
temperatures above about 5 K and for x=0.03 and x =0.06, no
field-induced enhancement of κ is observed at all, whereas for x=0, it
persists at all temperatures up to T_(c) (see the lower row in Fig. 2).

The κ(H) curves allow to establish the values of the bulk upper critical
field H_(c2) via the onset of the field independence of κ(H) (see arrows
in Fig. 2). The resulting H_(c2)(T) data are shown in Fig. 3. They are
in agreement with results of torque measurements on similar samples.[12]

The zero-field electrical resistivity for the x=0.06 sample was measured
between 4.2 and 130 K. The transition at T_(c) =32.9 K is, with a width
of about 0.1 K, rather narrow. In the entire covered temperature range
above T_(c), ρ(T) is well described by ρ=ρ₀+σT³ (see the inset in
Fig. 1) where two scattering processes, associated with quasiparticle
scattering by defects and phonons, respectively, are considered. The
constant parameters are ρ₀=12.3 μΩ cm and a=5.4 × 10⁻⁷μΩ cm K⁻³. In
comparison, for pure MgB₂, ρ₀ =2.0 μΩ cm and a=6.7 × 10⁻⁷μΩ cm K⁻³ (Ref.
[19]), which demonstrates that carbon doping strongly enhances the
scattering by defects, while the electron-phonon scattering is only
weakly altered.

Because we assume that the transport is provided by itinerant electronic
(κ_(c)) and lattice excitations ($\kappa_{\rm ph}$), such that κ= κ_(c)+
$\kappa_{\rm ph}$, any analysis of the changes of κ(T, H) caused by the
substitution of carbon for boron should consider corresponding changes
in both these channels. In MgB₂, the electronic thermal conduction
consists of contributions from both the σ and the π band, hence κ_(c)=
κ_(c, σ)+ κ_(c, π).[21, 22, 23, 24] When the temperature is reduced to
below T_(c) in zero magnetic field, the continuous reduction of the
number of unpaired quasiparticles leads to a decrease of κ_(c) but,
because of the reduction of the scattering of phonons by electrons
(holes), also to an increase of $\kappa_{\rm ph}$. Altogether, the
features of κ(T) depend on the relative magnitudes of κ_(c) and
$\kappa_{\rm ph}$ and on the efficiency of phonon scattering by
electrons. Since for MgB₂ the energy gap in the π band at a given
normalized temperature T/T_(c) is considerably smaller than expected
from the BCS theory, the π-band contributions to both the heat transport
and the phonon scattering extend to lower temperatures than in
conventional superconductors. Nevertheless, both κ_(c, σ) and κ_(c, π)
are negligible at very low temperatures and H= 0. Below 2−3 K, the
observed κ(T, 0) varies approximately as T³ (see dashed line in Fig. 1),
which is expected for purely phononic conductivity and a dominant
scattering of phonons at the sample boundaries. The observation that the
κ(T, 0) curves tend to merge below T_(c) suggests that carbon doping
does not influence the thermal conduction via phonons very much, and
that the difference in κ(T, 0) observed at higher temperatures

Figure 2: Thermal conductivity in the basal plane of Mg(B_(1 − x)C_(x))₂
(x=0, 0.03, and 0.06) vs H at several fixed temperatures. The arrows
indicate the upper critical field H_(c2). The closed and open symbols
correspond to the field directions perpendicular and parallel to the c
axis, respectively.

Figure 3: The upper critical fields H_(c2)(T) as evaluated from
thermal-conductivity data (open symbols for H∥c and solid symbols for
H⊥c). The dashed lines are to guide the eye.

results from κ_(e) being considerably reduced by the introduction of
carbon for boron. The question of which band is more strongly influenced
by doping, can be answered by analyzing the κ(H) data in the mixed
state.

The quasiparticles associated with the vortices provide additional
scattering of phonons and also enhance κ_(e). The competition of these
two mechanisms results in typical κ(H) curves for type-II
superconductors, with an initial drop of κ when H is raised to above
H_(c1) and subsequently to a considerable increase when H approaches
H_(c2). For MgB₂, this rather gradual increase of κ_(e)(H) is replaced
by an extremely rapid increase of κ_(e) at fields H ≪ H_(c2), followed
by a saturation region and yet another increase in the vicinity of
H_(c2).[19] The low-field increase does not scale with H/H_(c2) as is
observed for conventional superconductors and is almost independent of
field orientation, despite the strong anisotropy of H_(c2). This unique
behavior is explained in terms of a two-band scenario, where the smaller
energy gap Δ_(π) is closed at a relatively low and weakly anisotropic
field H_(π)^(*) < H_(c2), of the order of 10 kOe for pure MgB₂.[25, 26,
27] Therefore, κ_(e, π) increases rapidly when the field approaches
H_(π)^(*) and, still in the mixed state, adopts its normal-state value
above H_(π)^(*). The σ-band contribution κ_(e, σ) only grows when H
approaches H_(c2), the enhancement being strongly anisotropic,
reflecting the anisotropy of H_(c2).

The striking difference between carbon-free and carbon-doped samples is
that, for the latter, no significant increase in κ(H) is observed in the
vicinity of H_(c2). It implies that κ_(e, σ) is strongly reduced by
carbon substitution from about 50

In previous work[19] we reported a significant violation of the
Wiedemann-Franz law (WFL) in the field-induced normal state of MgB₂ at
low temperatures, below about 6 K. The WFL relates electrical and
thermal transport by

κ_(e)(T) = L₀T/ρ(T),
(1)

where L₀= 2.45 × 10⁻⁸ W Ω K⁻². This relation normally holds for common
metals if the relaxation rates for electrical and thermal currents are
equal. Elastic scattering of electrons by defects usually guarantees
this equality and hence, in the region where this scattering dominates,
in particular where ρ(T)≈ ρ₀, the validity of the WFL is expected. The
Lorenz number L(T)= κ(T)ρ(T)T⁻¹, where κ(T) is the total measured
conductivity, is equal to L₀ only if the phonon thermal conductivity is
negligible. In the low-temperature normal state of MgB₂, induced by
fields H∥c> 30 kOe, the ratio L(T)/L₀ considerably exceeds unity and
exhibits a peak at about 1 K, where L/L₀= 3.[19] Our estimates for the
upper limit of $\kappa_{\rm ph}$ at these temperatures revealed that the
phonon contribution to κ(T) cannot be responsible for the enhanced
Lorenz number, but the cause for the violation of the WFL is not yet
firmly established.

For the 6

In conclusion, the substitution of carbon for boron leads to a
considerable reduction of the electronic thermal conductivity of MgB₂,
whereby the transport in the σ band is much more strongly affected than
that in the π band. The Wiedemann-Franz law, considerably violated for
pure MgB₂ at low temperatures, seems to be valid for
Mg(B_(0.04)C_(0.06))₂.

## Acknowledgment

This work was financially supported in part by the Schweizerische
Nationalfonds zur Forderung der Wissen-schaftlichen Forschung.

## References

* [1] H. J. Choi, M. L. Cohen, and S. G. Louie, Physica C **385**, 66
(2003). * [2] A. Y. Liu, I. I. Mazin, and J. Kortus, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**87**, 087005 (2001). * [3] I. I. Mazin, O. K. Andersen, O. Jepsen, O.
V. Dolgov, J. Kortus, A. A. Golubov, A. B. Kuz’menko, and D. van der
Marel, Phys. Rev. Lett. **89**, 107002 (2002). * [4] S. C. Erwin and I.
I. Mazin, Phys. Rev. B **68**, 132505 (2003). * [5] H. Schmidt, K. E.
Gray, D. G. Hinks, J. F. Zasadzinski, M. Avdeev, J. D. Jorgensen, and J.
C. Burley, Phys. Rev. B **68**, 060508(R) (2003). * [6] K. Papagelis, J.
Arvanitidis, K. Prassides, A. Schenck, T. Takenobu, and Y. Iwasa,
Europhys. Lett. **61**, 254 (2003). * [7] P. Samuely, Z. Holanova, P.
Szabo, J. Kacmarcik, R. A. Ribeiro, S. L. Bud’ko, and P. C. Canfield,
Phys. Rev. B **68**, 020505(R) (2003). * [8] Z. Hofanova, P. Szabo, P.
Samuely, R. H. T. Wilke, S. L. Bud’ko, and P. C. Canfield, Phys. Rev. B
**70**, 064520 (2004). * [9] R. S. Gonnelli, D. Daghero, A. Calzolari,
G. A. Ummarino, V. Dellarocca, V. A. Stepanov, S. M. Kazakov, J. Jun,
and J. Karpinski, cond-mat/0407265 (unpublished). * [10] R. A. Ribeiro,
S. L. Bud’ko, C. Petrovic, and P. C. Canfield, Physica C **384**, 227
(2003). * [11] M. Pissas, D. Stampoulos, S. Lee, and S. Tajima,
cond-mat/ 0312350 (unpublished). * [12] R. Puzniak, M. Angst, A.
Szewczyk, J. Jun, S. M. Kazakov, and J. Karpinski, cond-mat/0404579
(unpublished). * [13] S. M. Kazakov, R. Puzniak, K. Rogacki, A. V.
Mironov, N. D. Zhigadlo, J. Jun, C. Soltmann, B. Batlogg, and J.
Karpinski, cond-mat/0405060, Phys. Rev. B (to be published December
2004). * [14] T. Muranaka, J. Akimitsu, and M. Sera, Phys. Rev. B
**64**, 020505(R) (2001). * [15] E. Bauer, C. Paul, S. Berger, S.
Majumdar, H. Michor, M. Giovannini, A. Saccone, and A. Bianconi, J.
Phys.: Condens. Matter **13**, L487 (2001). * [16] M. Putti, E. G.
d’Agliano, D. Marre, F. Napoli, M. Tassisto, P. Manfrinetti, and A.
Palenzona, in _Studies of High Temperature Superconductors_, edited by
A. V. Narlikar (Nova Science, New York, 2001), Vol. 35, p. 281. * [17]
M. Schneider, D. Lipp, A. Gladun, P. Zahn, A. Handstein, G. Fuchs, S.-L.
Drechsler, M. Richter, K.-H. Muller, and H. Rosner, Physica C **363**, 6
(2001). * [18] A. V. Sologubenko, J. Jun, S. M. Kazakov, J. Karpinski,
and H. R. Ott, Phys. Rev. B **65**, 180505(R) (2002). * [19] A. V.
Sologubenko, J. Jun, S. M. Kazakov, J. Karpinski, and H. R. Ott, Phys.
Rev. B **66**, 014504 (2002). * [20] M. Putti, V. Braccini, E. G.
d’Agliano, F. Napoli, I. Pallecchi, A. Siri, P. Manfrinetti, and A.
Palenzona, Phys. Rev. B **67**, 064505 (2003). * [21] L. Tewordt and D.
Fay, Phys. Rev. Lett. **89**, 137003 (2002). * [22] H. Kusunose, T. M.
Rice, and M. Sigrist, Phys. Rev. B **66**, 214503 (2002). * [23] L.
Tewordt and D. Fay, Phys. Rev. B **68**, 092503 (2003). * [24] L.
Tewordt and D. Fay, Phys. Rev. B **67**, 134524 (2003). * [25] F.
Bouquet, Y. Wang, I. Sheikin, T. Plackowski, A. Junod, S. Lee, and S.
Tajima, Phys. Rev. Lett. **89**, 257001 (2002). * [26] P. Samuely, P.
Szabo, J. Kacmarcik, T. Klein, and A. G. M. Janssen, Physica C **385**,
244 (2003). * [27] L. Lyard, P. Szabo, T. Klein, J. Marcus, C. Marcenat,
K. H. Kim, B. W. Kang, H. S. Lee, and S. I. Lee, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**92**, 057001 (2004).
