Nanoscale electronic structure of the layered nitride superconductors
α-K_(x)TiNCl and β-HfNCl_(y) observed by scanning tunneling microscopy
and spectroscopy

Akira Sugimoto,¹ Kazuhiro Shohara,¹ Toshikazu Ekino,¹ Zhanfeng Zheng,²
and Shoji Yamanaka²

¹Graduate School of Integrated Arts and Sciences, Hiroshima University,
Higashi-Hiroshima 739-8521, Japan

²Graduate School of Engineering, Hiroshima University, Higashi-Hiroshima
739-8527, Japan

²Graduate School of Engineering, Hiroshima University, Higashi-Hiroshima
739-8527, Japan

Received 13 May 2011; revised manuscript received 24 February 2012;
published 17 April 2012

###### Abstract

Scanning tunneling microscopy and spectroscopy (STM-STS) measurements
have been carried out on the α (FeOCI)-type K_(x)TiNCl (x ∼ 0.5,
T_(c) = 16 K) and β (SmSI)-type HfNCl, (y ∼ 0.7, T_(c) = 24 K) layered
nitride superconductors. The STM images at 5 K showed clear atomic
arrangements for both the compounds, namely, the rectangular lattice on
α-K_(x)TiNCl and the triangular lattice on β-HfNCl_(y). The tunneling
spectra in the superconducting states at low temperatures demonstrate
qualitatively different features between these superconductors. For
α-K_(x)TiNCl, the spatial distributions of the density of states and the
superconducting gap structures are very inhomogeneous, while those on
β-HfNCl, are found to be almost homogeneous. The nanoscale electronic
features between these compounds correlate with the different lattice
structures of the M (=Ti or Hf) N conducting layers, which are caused by
the lattice symmetry difference itself or induced by the difference in
the local doping distributions in these chemically reactive compounds.
The averaged gap magnitudes in the superconducting states, Δ̃ ≃ 10.2 meV
and 7.5 meV for α-K_(x)TiNCl and β-HfNCl_(y), corresponding to the gap
ratios 2Δ̃/k_(B)T_(c) ≃ 15 and 7.2, respectively, indicate the unusually
strong coupling effects of the superconductivity.

pacs: DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.85.144517 + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL
REVIEW B **85**, 144517 (2012)

## I Introduction

During the past decades, several kinds of superconductors with
relatively higher critical temperatures (T_(c)), such as layered
nitrides,¹ metal diborides,² and iron pnictides,³ have been newly
discovered. Almost all of them, including the cuprate superconductors,
commonly have the two-dimensional (2D) layer structures. Among them, the
layered nitride superconductors (MNX, M = Zr, Hf, Ti; X = Cl, Br, I)
with the maximum T_(c) of 25.5 K (M = Hf, X = Cl) were discovered in
1998 by Yamanaka et.al.¹ The electronic states of these materials can be
systematically controlled by tuning both carrier-doping level and the
layer separation by the atomic intercalation. Therefore, it should be
very suitable for the systematic investigations to compare mutually the
necessary conditions of the occurrence of the superconductivity.

There are now two types of the layered nitride compounds; one is the α
(FeOCI)-type structure with the 2D metal-nitrogen (MN) layer of
rectangular lattice [shown in Fig. 1(a)], and the other is the β
(SmSI)-type one with the 2D MN layer of honeycomb lattice [shown in Fig.
1(b)]. Therefore, these layered nitride superconductors are the rare
kinds of materials that have different lattice structures in the same
compound family. The α-type and the β-type ones can be comparable to the
cuprate and magnesium diboride superconductors because the former
compounds have the 2D-conductive rectangular lattice and the latter have
the honeycomb lattice. In the case of β-type superconductors, many
theoretical and experimental studies have been done, and recent studies
showed that the compounds exhibit unconventional behaviors, such as the
small isotope effect (∼0.07, Refs. [4] and [5]) and the quite-low
electronic specific-heat coefficient (∼1 mJ/mol K², Ref. [4]). Our
previous experiments of break-junction (BJ) tunnel spectroscopy showed
relatively large gap Δ (the gap ratio is 2Δ/k_(B)T_(c) = 5 ∼ 6)⁶ ⁻ ⁸
with a BCS-like density of states. The specific-heat measurement of
β-type ZrNCl also showed 2Δ/k_(B)T_(c) ∼ 5 assuming the anisotropic
s-wave gap.⁹ These results suggest that they possess weak
electron-phonon interaction and low carrier density but exhibit the
strong-coupling superconductivity. In contrast to the β-type
superconductor, the α-type one has not been well investigated because it
is difficult to synthesize and extremely reactive in air. Recently, the
α-type K_(x)TiNCl superconductor was successfully synthesized with
T_(c) ∼ 16 K.¹⁰ This would enable us to compare the superconductivity of
different types of the conducting lattice network.

To clarify the properties of these two types of layered nitride
superconductors, the investigations of the spatial variation of the
electronic properties with atomic length scale must be very important.
Among such experiments, the scanning tunneling microscopy-spectroscopy
(STM-STS) method provides the most powerful tool to observe directly the
local density of states (LDOS) with atomic resolution in real space. In
fact, inhomogeneous electronic properties have been clarified in cuprate
superconductors by the STS method, which gave unique and important
contributions to understand the high-T_(c) superconductivity.¹¹ ⁻ ¹³
Especially in the case of layered nitride superconductors, it is very
interesting to investigate whether such inhomogeneous LDOS exists in
compounds that have layered structures with different lattice symmetries
of α (rectangular)- and β (honeycomb)-type structures. Furthermore, we
hope to understand further the mechanisms of superconductivity by
comparing this material family with abovementioned cuprate and other
recently discovered superconductors.

In this paper, we show the first observation of the atomic arrangements
and spatial variation of tunnel spectra by the STM-STS technique on
different types of α- and β-layered nitride superconductors. The
different atomic lattice structures of α and β types are directly
visualized from the STM images. From the measurements of the tunneling
spectra and the gap distributions in these superconductors, significant
differences are found between the two types of superconductors.

## II Experimental

The polycrystalline samples of _a_-type K_x TiNCl (_x_   0.5, T_(c)   16
K) were prepared by reacting powder _a_-TiNCl with metal azides KN3
(potassium intercalation). On the other hand, the _b_-type HfNCl3
samples (_y_   0.7, T_(c)   24 K) were prepared by reacting with alkali
metal (potassium) formed by the thermal decomposition of azides KN3
(chlorine deintercalation). The details of the fabrication of these
samples have been already reported.10,14 Since these samples were very
reactive in air humidity, they were mounted on the STM sample holders in
a pure Ar-filled grove box. The samples were then sealed in a container
and carefully transferred to the ultrahigh vacuum (UHV) chamber (_P_  
10-8 Pa) of the STM apparatus and cleaved at 77 K. The STM equipment
used in this experiment is a commercially based system (Omicron LT-STM)
with some modifications.15,16 The STM-STS observations were carried out
at the temperature of 4.9 K in UHV atmosphere of  10-8 Pa. Since the
size of the single-crystal domain facet is about several tens of
micrometers, it is enough to carry out the scanning operation by
STM-STS. The STM topographies were measured by a constant-current mode.
The d1/_d_V curves were obtained by numerical differentiation of the
measured I - V characteristics with the spatial interval of  0.08 nm
(K_x_TiNCl) and  0.15 nm (HfNCl3).

## III Results and Discussion

Figures 1(c) and 1(d) show STM images on the UHV-cleaved K_x_TiNCl and
HfNCl3 surfaces, respectively, at 4.9 K. Since these compounds possess
the layered structures, the cleavage surface is always the _ab_ (_aa_’)
plane of the crystal. For K_x_TiNCl, the rectangular atomic lattice
distribution is clearly visible in the STM image, while the triangular
distribution is obvious in the image of HfNCl3. Therefore, we can easily
confirm the difference between the network structures of K_x_TiNCl and
HfNCl3 by STM topographies. From the fast-Fourier transform (FFT)
analysis of the STM images, the periods of atomic corrugations on
K_x_TiNCl and HfNCl3 are |a⃗| = 0.41 nm, |b⃗| = 0.33 nm, and
$|\vec{a^{\prime}}| = 0.36$ nm. These periods correspond to those
observed by x-ray measurements (|a⃗| = 0.406 nm, |b⃗| = 0.329 nm for
K_x_TiNCl,10$|\vec{a^{\prime}}| = 0.357$ nm for HfNCl3,14 thereby
indicating that both the observed surfaces are _ab_ (_aa_’) plane of the
single-crystal domain within the scanning area. Since the intervals of
the atomic lattice separation correspond to the unit cell, a specific
kind of atom is visible as the bright spots in the STM images. It is
considered that some other kinds of atoms are invisible and/or they are
observed as dark spots within the present measurement conditions. In our
observed topographies of HfNCl3 with the various bias voltages
(|V| < 0.5 V), only one kind of lattice feature such as Fig. 1(d) was
stably obtained. As shown in the schematic crystal structure of _ab_
(_aa_’) plane superposed on the STM images, all kinds of atoms (K, Ti or
Hf, N, Cl) have the same interval distances at topmost or
second-to-the-top surfaces. On the basis of the total amount of
intercalated potassium (50

For further understanding the surface properties, the bias voltage
dependence of STM images has been measured, especially in K_x_TiNCl.
Figure 2 shows the STM images of the K_x_TiNCl compound with the various
bias voltages from -0.2 V to 0.3 V. By comparing the STM images, the
positive-bias STM images [Figs. 2(a) and 2(b)] show clearer lattice
structures than the negative-bias one [Fig. 2(c) and 2(d)]. The
negative-bias images show a one-dimensional (1D) streak-like pattern in
contrast to the spot-like pattern for the positive biases, which are
indicated by the dashed lines in Figs. 2(c) and 2(d). According to the
band calculations of TiNCl,10 the filled state (negative-bias side)
consists of N 2p and Ti 3d bands, while the empty state (positive-bias
side) dominates the Ti 3d band. Then, STM can detect the convolution of
atomic lattice structures and the N 2_p_-Ti 3d hybrid band only in the
negative bias. Within this condition, the STM images of the negative
bias do not resolve atoms in the _b_-axis direction, because the
_b_-axis length is shorter than the _a_-axis one; they show the 1D
streaky pattern along the b axis. Another important feature is that all
of the STM images exhibit the inhomogeneous background pattern as
surrounded by the dashed lines in Fig. 2(b). The enhanced bright areas
occupy about  0.55 +- 0.10 of whole the STM observed area, which

Figure 1: (Color online) Schematic lattice structure of _α_-K_xTiNCl (a)
and STM image (c) (_I_ = 0.1 nA, _V_sample = 0.1 V). Schematic lattice
structure of _β_-HfNCl3 (b) and its STM image (d) (_I_ = 0.1 nA,
_V_sample = 0.1 V). Schematic _ab_(_aa_′)-plane lattice structures of
each compound are superposed in panels (c) and (d).

is comparable to the nominal ratio of potassium intercalation (x ∼ 0.5).
Therefore, it is considered that these contrasts may be related to the
intercalated atoms and/or doped carriers. The details of the STM
topographies have been already discussed elsewhere.[17]

In order to clarify the surface electronic states and superconducting
properties, it is necessary to inspect the atomic-scale LDOS and gap
distributions. It is well known that the magnitude of dI/dV is
proportional to the LDOS; hence, the precise spatial distributions of
LDOS are able to be obtained by many-point dI/dV measurements. The 64 x
64 points of dI/dV measurements were carried out, and then the dI/dV
maps of each bias voltage V were derived from the magnitude of
conductance of the corresponding bias voltage [dI/dV(V)].

Figures 3(a)-3(j) show the dI/dV maps with various sample bias voltages
(for energy levels, see the figure captions) on K_(x)TiNCl derived from
the dI/dV spectra. The color scales of these maps are common (bottom of
the figures): As the magnitude of the bias level is reduced, the
contrast of the color changes darker. Clearly, almost all maps show the
spatially inhomogeneous distributions of electronic states. Furthermore,
these distributions largely depend on the bias voltages. For example,
the distribution patterns are different between the bias polarities,
especially around |V| = 15 mV. In the dI/dV map of V ∼ −15 mV [Fig.
3(c)], the brighter area is clearly observed near the center (indicated
by arrow), while in that of V ∼ 15 mV [Fig. 3(h)], the bright areas of
Fig. 3(c) turn to the dark area. Figures 3(k)-3(o) show the dI/dV maps
on HfNCl_(y) with various sample bias voltages. Obviously, in the case
of HfNCl_(y), the dI/dV maps show relatively homogeneous distributions,
which are naturally expected for the conventional BCS superconductors.
This homogeneous property is noted to be in contrast to K_(x)TiNCl.

Figures 4(a) and 4(b) show the spatial variations (x) of dI/dV(x, V)
spectra measured on (a) K_(x)TiNCl [along the dashed arrow in Fig. 3(a)]
and (b) HfNCl_(y) [Fig. 3(k)]. In the case of K_(x)TiNCl [Fig. 4(a)],
dI/dV curves show complicated irregular shapes, but some curves show
intensive peaks at negative bias (for example, V ∼ −15 mV at the
position x = 2-3 nm). These curves show the large spatial variations of
the energy and height of peaks at negative bias side, and the dI/dV
magnitude at the zero bias, etc., within the scale of a few nanometers.
On the contrary, in the case of HfNCl_(y) [Fig. 4(b)], the dI/dV curves
show almost symmetric gap edge peaks with respect to the bias polarity,
which are also

Figure 3: (Color online) (a)–(j) The dI/dV maps of α-K_(x)TiNCl. The
sample biases are (a) −50 mV, (b) −30 mV, (c) −15 mV, (d) −5 mV, (e) 0
mV, (f) 50 mV, (g) 30 mV, (h) 15 mV, (i) 5 mV, and (j) 2 mV. (k)–(o)
dI/dV maps on β-HfNCl_(y) with various bias voltages of (k) −34 mV, (l)
−9 mV, (m) 1 mV, (n) 10 mV, and (o) 35 mV.

Figure 2: (Color online) Bias dependence of STM image on α-K_(x)TiNCl
(I_(x) = 0.1 nA). Panels (a) and (b) are in the positive sample bias
(0.3 V, 0.1 V), and panels (c) and (d) are in the negative sample bias
(−0.2 V, −0.1 V).

expected for the conventional superconductors. Furthermore, the dI/dV
curves show spatially homogeneous electronic structures.

Figure 5(a) shows the averaged dI/dV curve on K_(x)TiNCl from the
observed area of Figs. 3(a)-3(j). As mentioned above, the dI/dV curve
shows the noticeable peak at only V ∼ −15 mV. (The additional broad
faint peak outside V ∼ −45 mV is also observed.) However, this gap peak
is broadened and the zero-bias residual conductance is relatively large.
The peak voltage [shown as Δ_(p) in Fig. 5(a)] has been known to
overestimate gap magnitude. Therefore, to obtain the suitable gap
magnitude from the broadened gap structure, the fitting procedure was
employed to calculate on the basis of the broadened BCS density of
states proposed by Dynes _et al_.[18]

$$\frac{dI}{dV}(V) \propto \frac{d}{dV}\int_{-\infty}^{\infty}\left|\text{Re}\frac{E-i\Gamma} {\sqrt{(E-i\Gamma)^{2}-\Delta^{2}}}\right|$$
(1)
×[f(E) − f(E + eV)]dE.

Here f(E) is Fermi distribution function, f(E) = [1 + exp (E/k_(B)T)]⁻¹.
Γ, T, and k_(B) are the broadening parameter, the observing temperature
(T = 4.9 K), and Boltzmann constant, respectively. The fitting curve is
presented as the dashed line in Fig. 5(a), which exhibits the best fit
to the experimental curve with Δ ≃ 11 meV, Γ ≃ 6.2 meV (Γ/Δ ≃ 0.6). The
fitting curves with the other possible gap symmetries such as d wave and
anisotropic s wave were also calculated by changing the terms of Δ in
Eq. (1). However, all results show no noticeable difference because of
the relatively large broadening parameter Γ. Such an agreement between
the BCS-based calculation and experiment is consistent with our previous
BJ tunneling measurements, although the Γ from BJ is quite small
(Γ/Δ ≃ 0.1). This may due to the pair breaking caused by the tunneling
current via the STM tip depending on the surface condition. Figure 5(b)
shows the spatial distribution of Δ (Δ map) on the same area of Figs.
3(a)-3(j). We have obtained only the negative-bias peak-voltage Δ_(p)
shown by the arrow in Fig. 5(a), although it appears as a shoulder at
the positive bias. Therefore, the calculated curves based on Eq. (1)
were compared with the averaged dI/dV curves only for the negative-bias
side. The gap parameters Δ were obtained from these fittings on the
several representative experimental dI/dV curves averaged from those of
the similar range of Δ_(p); then, the linear relationship of Δ and Δ_(p)
shown in the inset of Fig. 5(a) is obtained as Δ (meV)
 ≃ 0.83Δ_(p) − 1.4 (Δ_(p) > 5 meV). According to this relationship, the
Δ map was obtained from all the observed Δ_(p). The Δ map thus obtained
is also inhomogeneous within the range of a few nanometers. This length
scale is comparable or slightly shorter than that of cuprate
superconductors, probably reflecting the similar electronic instability.
The inset of Fig. 5(b) shows the histogram of Δ. The average of Δ is
Δ ≃ 10.2 meV and the standard deviation is σ_(Δ) ≃ 5.0 meV. The averaged
gap ratio 2Δ̄/k_(B)T_(c) is  ∼ 15, which is almost twice as large as that
of HfNCl_(y) as mentioned later. This value is extremely larger than the
standard BCS value of ∼3.5. It is noted that this large ratio is
comparable to that of the cuprate superconductors (8-20).[12, 19, 20]
Furthermore, the asymmetric shape of the dI/dV curve and inhomogeneous
gap distributions (σ_(Δ) ≃ 5 meV) are also commonly seen in Bi-based
cuprate superconductors.[19] The localized large gap area suggests that
there exist regions where local T_(c) would be higher than bulk T_(c).
It is noted that recent specific heat and magnetic susceptibility
measurements in Li_(x)ZrNCl argued the possibility of the pairing
formation mediated by spin fluctuations on the basis of the behavior of
the doped insulators, which would be one of the origins of the large gap
that is also one of the candidates for the pseudogap origin for cuprate
superconductors.[21]

According to the band calculation of K_(x)TiNCl,[10] the pristine
compound has the semiconducting gap of 1-2 eV near the Fermi energy
(E_(F)). With increasing the intercalation (doping) of potassium atoms,
the conduction band approaches to E_(F), which increases the density of
states at E_(F) [N(E_(F))]. The density of states of the conduction band
is enhanced while that below the E_(F) level still remains low against
the doping. These band calculations seem to be consistent with the
present STS results in K_(x)TiNCl because the slope of the tunnel
spectrum curve at the positive bias side is much steeper than that at
the negative bias side.

Figure 5(c) shows the averaged dI/dV curve on HfNCl_(y) from the area
(10 nm × 10 nm) of Figs. 3(k)-3(o). The shape of the averaged dI/dV
curve is similar to the series of the dI/dV curves in Fig. 4(b) because
these curves were almost similar among the STS area. The dI/dV curve
shows bias-independent background features outside the gap voltage
(|V| = 10-60 mV). These results are consistent with the band
calculations,[22, 23, 24] which show that the total density of states in
the vicinity of E_(F) is almost constant within the energy region of
|E| < 0.5 eV. The curve shows clearer gap features than that of the
K_(x)TiNCl. Nevertheless, it has the finite zero-bias conductance dI/dV
(V = 0 mV). Therefore, like the case of K_(x)TiNCl, in order to obtain
the suitable gap magnitude from the dI/dV curve, the fitting procedures
were also performed on the basis of Eq. (1). The fitting curve is shown
by

Figure 4: (Color online) Typical spatial variation of dI/dV spectrum on
(a) α-K_(x)TiNCl [along the dashed arrow in Fig. 3(a), the 5-nm
displacement] and (b) β-HfNCl_(y) [along the dashed arrow in Fig. 3(k),
the 10-nm displacement].

dashed line in Fig. 5(c). The fitting parameter of the averaged dI/dV is
Δ = 7.2 meV, Γ = 3.2 meV, where the ratio Γ/Δ∼ 0.44 is similar or
somewhat smaller than that of K_(x)TiNCl [Fig. 5(a)].

Figure 5(d) shows the Δ map for HfNCl_(y). The method of the estimation
of Δ was similar to that of the K_(x)TiNCl, and the peak gap magnitude
Δ_(p) was defined as half the peak-to-peak bias voltage as shown by the
arrow in Fig. 5(c). The relationship between the Δ_(p) and Δ is Δ (meV)
≃ 0.88Δ_(p) - 2.7 (Δ_(p)> 5 meV) in this HfNCl_(y) case [shown in the
inset of Fig. 5(c)]. The averaged gap Δ̄ and the standard deviation σ_(Δ)
are Δ̄≃ 7.5 meV and σ_(Δ)≃ 1.9 meV, respectively. Since the present σ_(Δ)
is about 1/3 of that of K_(x)TiNCl, it is obvious that the spatial gap
distribution of HfNCl_(y) is more homogeneous than that of the
K_(x)TiNCl. It is very interesting to note that the features of
electronic density of states turn out to be very different between α-
and β-type compounds even though they are in the same material family.
In the case of β-HfNCl_(y), the conductance features are almost
homogeneous, which is consistent with the conventional superconductors.
However, the gap ratio 2Δ̄/k_(B)T_(c)∼ 7.2 (2Δ̄∼ 15 meV) is about twice as
large as the BCS ratio, 3.5. This large gap ratio is nearly the same as
that of Bi2212 (Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O_(8 + δ)) (8-12)[12, 19, 20] and organic
superconductors (∼10).[25] It should be also noted that the gap Δ̄≃ 7.5
meV is smaller than that of K_(x)TiNCl (Δ̄∼ 10 meV), while the T_(c) is
twice as large as that of K_(x)TiNCl. This fact indicates that the
magnitude of Δ may not scale to the T_(c) within this material family.
From our recent BJ tunneling results of HfNCl_(y), the existence of
multiple gaps, Δ∼ 2, 5, and 8 meV, were clarified.[26] By comparing the
BJ data with the STS results, the largest gap observed in BJ turned out
to correspond to the typical gap of this STS experiment. The quite large
gap obtained here is too large to explain in the framework of the
strong-coupling theory.[26, 27] The medium gap, ∼5 meV,

Figure 5: (Color online) (a) Averaged dI/dV curve with the fitting
curves (dashed line) based on Eq. (1) and (b) Δ map on α-K_(x)TiNCl (5
nm ×5 nm). (c) Averaged dI/dV curve with the fitting curves (dashed
line) based on Eq. (1) and (d) Δ map on β- HfNCl_(y) (10 nm ×10 nm). The
scale color is common with panels (b) and (d). The insets of panels (a)
and (c) show the relationships between the peak gap Δ_(p) and the
calculated gap Δ from the fitting procedures. The insets of panels (b)
and (d) are the histograms of Δ maps.

obtained by BJ just corresponds to the recent results of heat capacity
measurements,[21] while it is not observable by the STS experiment. This
discrepancy may be due to the difference in the measuring methods. The
BJ tunneling spectra are believed to contain information from all
directions of tunneling currents detecting the unaffected surface
properties. On the other hand, an STS method is sensitive to the initial
surface states and detects the gap in the extremely local area.
Furthermore, the strong two-dimensionality of these materials may
enhance the difference in the measured properties. The complex multiple
bands and Fermi surface(s) might lead to anisotropic gap such as d wave
or anisotropic s wave. However, as mentioned above, the gap symmetries
cannot be identified from the fitting procedures of the dI/dV curves in
both K_(x)TiNCl and HfNCl_(y), because of the large broadenings. Further
experiments must be needed to clarify these issues.

The most distinct feature in our results of two compounds is that the
local density of states changes strongly within a few nanometers only in
the α type, which is in contrast to the β type. At present, we consider
the three possible origins of the difference between α and β types. The
first possibility is that the inhomogeneous local density of state is
due to the lattice-network specific properties. The α-type structure has
a 2D Ti-N rectangular lattice of ab plane [see Fig. 1(a)], which is in a
sense similar to the cuprate superconductors. This rectangular ab-plane
network is considered to be "lower" in crystal symmetry than honeycomb
network of Hf-N [see Fig. 1(b)]. Felser etal. predicted that the Fermi
surface of electron-doped HfNCl is formed by only one band originating
from Hf 5d-N 2p hybridized orbital and possesses the six-fold symmetry
of the Fermi surface,[24] which has higher symmetry than the rectangular
network of Ti-N. On the other hand, from the band calculation of doped
K_(x)TiNCl,[10] Ti 3d-N 2p hybrid band mainly contributes to the Fermi
surface and the shape of the two-fold symmetry of Fermi surface is
assumed by the orthorhombic crystal structures. Such low dimensionality
of the crystal could cause inhomogeneous electronic states because of
the possible electronic fluctuations. The theoretical study of the
lattice-dependent superconductivities was also reported by Kuroki
etal.[28] It shows that the superconductivity of the honeycomb lattice
is robust toward the changing of the level-offset energy between the M
and N networks of MN lattice, while that of the square lattice has the
strong dependence on the level-offset energy. If we assume that these
offset energies vary spatially, it is consistent with our experimental
results of the more homogeneous superconductivity occurring in honeycomb
lattice of HfNCl_(y). Second, the observed inhomogeneous gap Δ in
K_(x)TiNCl might be involved with the impurity states by the
intercalation, because the Δ peaks occur only at the negative bias side.
It is noted that the recent theoretical results[29] showed that doped
isotropic semiconductors such as boron-doped diamonds would possibly
become inhomogeneous (localized) superconductors induced by impurity
potential. Therefore, these layered nitride superconductors, whose
mother compounds are band semiconductors, are also considered to have
the possibility of the impurity-induced local superconductivity. Third,
these inhomogeneous features can be due to the local doping
distributions by inhomogeneous intercalation. In K_(x)TiNCl, the
inhomogeneous doping made by intercalated atoms could affect the local
density of states and thus superconducting properties. It is noted that
these results in K_(x)TiNCl are comparable to the case of Bi2212 with
the strong doping dependence of the gap size.[30] On the other hand, in
the case of HfNCl_(y), the T_(c) does not change against carrier
concentration and superconducting properties are robust.[31, 32]
Therefore, the gap energy shows homogeneous properties even there is an
inhomogeneous local doping distribution.

At last, there were still some essential ambiguities to distinguish
whether the observed inhomogeneous properties were due to the bulk or
the surface phenomena, because the STM-STS in principle detects the
tunneling current from the surface. However, by taking the strong two
dimensionality of these materials into account, the surface tunneling
current of STM-STS was considered to contain the information of the bulk
electronic states, as in the case of other recent STM experiments.[11,
12, 13, 20] It is noted that, from the inhomogeneous dI/dV spectra and
relatively large gap-broadening parameter Γ, especially in K_(x)TiNCl,
the possibility of the initial contamination that affects the strongly
disordered electronic states cannot be excluded. More detailed kinds of
experiments must be needed with higher purity compounds as well as other
layered nitride compounds to elucidate the essential relationship
between the lattice symmetry and the electronic structure in the
superconducting states.

## IV Summary

We have carried out the STM-STS measurements of both α-K_(x)TiNCl and
β-HfNCl_(y) superconductors. From the STM images, the clear atomic
structures of the rectangular lattice on α-K_(x)TiNCl and the triangular
lattice on β-HfNCl_(y) were confirmed. The dI/dV spectra show
qualitatively different features between these superconductors; the
spatial distribution of the tunneling spectrum and the gap magnitude on
α-K_(x)TiNCl are inhomogeneous, while those on β-HfNCl_(y) show
relatively homogeneous distribution. The averaged gap magnitudes of
Δ̄ ≃ 10.2 meV (the standard deviation of gap σ_(Δ) ≃ 5.0 meV) and Δ̄ ≃ 7.5
meV (σ_(Δ) ≃ 1.9 meV) for α-K_(x)TiNCl and β-HfNCl_(y), with the gap
ratios 2Δ/k_(B)T_(c) ≃ 15 and 7.2, respectively, are extremely large as
compared with BCS theory. The difference in the gap ratio between them
is considered to be caused by the lattice symmetry difference itself or
induced by the difference in the local doping and impurity distributions
in these chemically reactive compounds.

## Acknowledgments

We thank the Natural Science Center for Basic Research and Development,
Hiroshima University, for supplying liquid helium. This work has been
supported by the Japan Society for the Promotion of Science (JSPS)
through its "Funding Program for World-Leading Innovative R&D on Science
and Technology (FIRST) Program" and by Grants-in-Aid for Young Scientist
(Start-up No. 18810021) and Scientific Research (No. 19105006, No.
19051011, No. 19014016, and No. 19540370) of the Ministry of Education,
Culture, Sports, Science, and Technology (MEXT) of Japan.

* [18] S. Yamanaka, K. Hotehana, and H. Kamiji, Nature (London) **392**,
580 (1998). * [19] J. Nagamatsu, N. Nakagawa, T. Muraoka, Y. Zenitani,
and J. Akimitsu, Nature (London) **410**, 63 (2001). * [20] Y. Kamihara,
T. Watanabe, M. Hirano, and H. Hosono, J. Am. Chem. Soc. **130**, 3296
(2008). * [21] Y. Taguchi, T. Kawabata, T. Takano, A. Kitora, K. Kato,
M. Takata, and Y. Iwasa, Phys. Rev. B **76**, 064508 (2007). * [22] H.
Tou, Y. Maniwa, and S. Yamanaka, Phys. Rev. B **67**, 100509(R)
(2003). * [23] T. Ekino, T. Takasaki, T. Muranaka, H. Fujii, J.
Akimitsu, and S. Yamanaka, Phys. B (Amsterdam, Neh.) **328**, 23
(2003). * [24] T. Takasaki, T. Ekino, H. Fujii, and S. Yamanaka, J.
Phys. Soc. Jpn. **74**, 2586 (2005). * [25] T. Takasaki, T. Ekino, and
S. Yamanaka, Phys. C (Amsterdam, Neh.) **445-448**, 77 (2006). * [26] Y.
Taguchi, M. Hisakabe, and Y. Iwasa, Phys. Rev. Lett. **94**, 217002
(2005). * [27] S. Yamanaka, T. Yasunaga, K. Yamaguchi, and M. Tagawa, J.
Mater. Chem. **19**, 2573 (2009). * [28] K. M. Lang, Y. Madhavan, J. E.
Hoffman, E. W. Hudson, H. Eisaki, S. Uchida, and J. C. Davis, Nature
(London) **415**, 412 (2002). * [29] O. Fischer, M. Kugler, I.
Maggio-Aprile, C. Berthod, and Ch. Renner, Rev. Mod. Phys. **79**, 353
(2007). * [30] T. Hanaguri, C. Lupien, Y. Kohsaka, D-H. Lee, M. Azuma,
M. Takano, H. Takagi, and J. C. Davis, Nature (London) **430**, 1001
(2004). * [31] L. Zhu and S. Yamanaka, Chem. Mater. **15**, 1897
(2003). * [32] T. Ekino, T. Takasaki, R. A. Ribeiro, T. Muranaka, and J.
Akimitsu, J. Phys.: Conf. Ser. **61**, 278 (2007). * [33] A. Sugimoto,
T. Ekino, and H. Eisaki, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **77**, 043705 (2008). *
[34] A. Sugimoto, K. Shohara, T. Ekino, and S. Yamanaka, J. Phys.: Conf.
Ser. **150**, 052251 (2009). * [35] R. C. Dynes, V. Narayanamurti, and
J. P. Garno, Phys. Rev. Lett. **41**, 1509 (1978). * [36] A. Sugimoto,
S. Kashiwaya, H. Eisaki, H. Kashiwaya, H. Tsuchiura, Y. Tanaka, K.
Fujita, and S. Uchida, Phys. Rev. B **74**, 094503 (2006). * [37] K.
McElroy, J. Lee, J. A. Slezak, D. H. Lee, H. Eisaki, S. Uchida, and J.
C. Davis, Science **309**, 1048 (2005). * [38] Y. Kasahara, T. Kishiume,
T. Takano, K. Kobayashi, E. Matsuoka, H. Onodera, K. Kuroki, Y. Taguchi,
and Y. Iwasa, Phys. Rev. Lett. **103**, 077004 (2009). * [39] P. M.
Woodward and T. Vogt, J. Solid State Chem. **138**, 207 (1998). * [40]
I. Hase and Y. Nishihara, Phys. Rev. B **60**, 1573 (1999). * [41] C.
Felser and R. Seshadri, J. Mater. Chem. **9**, 459 (1999). * [42] T.
Arai, K. Ichimura, K. Nomura, S. Takasaki, J. Yamada, S. Nakatsuji, and
H. Anzai, Phys. Rev. B **63**, 104518 (2001). * [43] T. Takasaki, T.
Ekino, A. Sugimoto, K. Shohara, S. Yamanaka, and A. M. Gabovich, Eur.
Phys. J. B **73**, 471 (2010). * [44] F. Marsiglio and J. P. Carbotte,
Phys. Rev. B **33**, 6141 (1986). * [45] K. Kuroki, Sci. Technol. Adv.
Mater. **9**, 044202 (2008). * [46] Y. Yanase and N. Yorozu, J. Phys.
Soc. Jpn. **78**, 034715 (2009). * [47] N. Miyakawa, J. F. Zasadzinski,
L. Ozyuzer, P. Guptasarma, D. G. Hinks, C. Kendziora, and K. E. Gray,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **83**, 1018 (1999). * [48] Y. Taguchi, A. Kitora, and
Y. Iwasa, Phys. Rev. Lett. **97**, 107001 (2006). * [49] T. Takano, T.
Kishiume, Y. Taguchi, and Y. Iwasa, Phys. Rev. Lett. **100**, 247005
(2008).
