Interlayer coupling and superconducting properties of the triple-layer
compound B0.6C0.4(Sr0.25Ba0.75)2Ca2Cu3O9

Mun-Seog Kim and Sung-Ik Lee

Department of Physics, Pohang University of Science and Technology,
Pohang 790-784, Republic of Korea

A. Iyo, K. Tokiwa, M. Tokumoto, and H. Ihara

Electrotechnical Laboratory, Umezono 1-1-4, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 305, Japan

24 July 1997 To obtain a c -axis-aligned sample, Farrell’s method [13]
was employed. The powder of the sample was passed through a 20 _m_m
sieve to remove possible intergrain coupling, thus the average grain
size was expected to be much smaller than 20 _m_m. This fine powder was
aligned in commercial epoxy (Hardman Inc.) with an external magnetic
field of 7 T. The size of the permanently aligned sample was
approximately 9.5 mm long and 3 mm in diameter. From the x-ray rocking
curve measurement the full width at half maximum of the (006) reflection
was estimated to be less than 2deg. The low-field dc susceptibility
measurement reveals the transition temperature, T_(c) = 119 K, the
transition width, ΔT_(c) = 7 K, and the superconducting volume fraction,
V_(s) = 98

The temperature dependence of magnetization was measured in the
magnetic-field range of 1 T  ≈ H <= 5 T using a superconducting quantum
interference device magnetometer (MPMS, Quantum Design). Weak
temperature-dependent contributions originated from the epoxy and the
paramagnetic impurities were appropriately subtracted from the observed
values by fitting the magnetization curve at the temperature region of
200 K  ≈ T <= 250 K by _C/T_ + _kh_0.

## III Results and discussions

Figure 1 shows the temperature dependence of the reversible
magnetization for the various external magnetic fields of 1 T  ≈ H <= 5
T parallel to the c axis. In this figure an intriguing feature is the
existence of the crossing point of the magnetization curves at _T_* ≈
115 K, previously known clear evidence for the positional fluctuations
of vortices, i.e., the vortex fluctuation effect. [14] This effect
causes the magnetization curves to deviate from the prediction of the
mean-field theories. [15] Thus, quantities such as the upper critical
field _H__c_2(_T_) and the Ginzburg-Landau (GL) parameter _k_(_T_)
evaluated by the application of the Hao and Clem model base on the GL
theory show unphysical increase with temperature near the crossing
temperature T = _T_*.

Figure 2 shows the GL parameter as a function of temperature, obtained
from the Hao and Clem model. The abrupt increase of k with the
temperature near T = 105 K (= 0.9_T__c_) is clearly demonstrated. As
mentioned above, this is due to the influence of the positional
fluctuations of vortices. [15, 16] However, unlike in the highly
anisotropic materials such as Bi-based superconductors, [15] the
temperature region showing the anomalous behavior is significantly
narrow (_T_/_T__c_ ≈ 0.9), which implies that the vortex fluctuation
effect is severe in the limited temperature region near T_(c). This
indicates that BC-1223 might be a rather moderately anisotropic
superconductor like YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) (Ref. [17]) and YBa₂Cu₄O₈. [18, 19]
because the vortex fluctuation effect is dominant only for large
anisotropic cases. [15]

The anisotropic nature of BC-1223 could be examined from the scaling
behavior of the fluctuation-induced magnetization for the high-field
region. This scaling behavior depends on the dimensionality of the
system. According to Ullah and Dorsey, [10] the magnetization in the
critical region shows the scaling behavior as the scaling variable of
A[T − T_(c)(H)]/(TH)^(n), where A is a field and transition
temperature-independent coefficient, and n is 2/3 for a
three-dimensional (3D) system and 1/2 for a two-dimensional (2D) system.
As expected, the magnetization scales excellently on the 3D form. Figure
3 shows the 4 πM/(TH)^(n) versus the scaling parameter
[T − T_(c)(H)]/(TH)^(n) with n = 2/3. All data of the different fields
are collapsed onto a single curve. The slope −dH_(c)₂/dT = 1.6 T/K near
T_(c) was obtained from this scaling analysis.

Figure 3: Three-dimensional scaling of the magnetization around
T_(c)(_H_). From this scaling analysis the slope −dH_(c)₂/dT = 1.6 T/K
near T_(c) was obtained.

Figure 2: Temperature dependence of the Ginzburg-Landau parameter
_k_(_T_) extracted from the Hao and Clem model. The dashed line
represents the average value of _k_(_T_) in the temperature range of 80
K  ≈ T <= 105 K.

Although the controversy on the dimensionality of Hg-1223 still exists,
it is believed that Hg-1223 is a 2D superconductor[20] with the
anisotropic ratio of γ^(∞)30. Be aware of the fact that the structure of
BC-1223 is nearly same as that of Hg-1223. Thus, it is noticeable that
the dimensionality of BC-1223 is 3D. As mentioned in the introduction,
the interlayer spacing of BC-1223 is significantly shorter than that of
Hg-1223. This feature may cause strong interlayer coupling.

For the temperature region of 105 K ≈ T≈ T_(c) , the extra free energy
due to the distortions of vortices should be considered to describe the
reversible magnetization properly. But the vortex fluctuation effect is
less important at the low-temperature region of T≈ 105 K. Thus we
conjecture that in this temperature region the system shows the
mean-field behavior and the values of κ(T) of Fig. 2 close to the real
value. If we take the κ_(avg) = 103 as the average value of κ(T) in the
temperature range of 80 K ≈ T≈ 105 K, then − 4 πM(H) curves could be
represented by an universal curve with scaling factor
$\sqrt{2}H_{c}(T)$, consistent with the Hao and Clem model. Figure 4
shows − 4 πM^(′) = − 4 πM/ $\sqrt{2}H_{c}(T)$ versus H^(′) =
H/$\sqrt{2}H_{c}(T)$ of the experimental data and the theoretical curve.

The inset of Fig. 4 shows the thermodynamic critical field H_(c) as a
function of the temperature obtained from the Hao and Clem model. The
solid and dashed lines represent the BCS result[21] and the two-fluid
model[22] for H_(c)(T), respectively. The BCS result (the two-fluid
model) yields H_(c)(0) = 0.74 T(0.69 T) and T_(c) = 118 K, which
correspond to the upper critical field slope − (dH_(c2)/dT)_(T_(c)) =
1.58 T/K. The value of (dH_(c2)/dT)_(T_(c)) is fairly consistent with
the high-field scaling result. This slope can be used to estimate the
upper critical field at T = 0 using the Werthamer, Helfand, and
Hohenberg formula.[23] From the formula, H_(c2)(0) is estimated to be
136 T [ξ_(ab)(0) = 15.6 A] assuming the clean limit, and 130 T
[ξ_(ab)(0) = 16.0 A] assuming the dirty limit. The total error of the
above superconducting parameters is estimated to be much less than 10

As shown in Fig. 5, the penetration depth λ_(ab)(T) was evaluated from
the relation λ(T) = κ[ϕ₀/2πH_(c2)(T)]^(1/2) where ϕ₀ is the flux
quantum. The solid and dashed lines represent the BCS clean and dirty
limits for λ(T), respectively. The estimated λ_(ab)(0) is 214 nm for the
clean limit, but 237 nm for the dirty limit. These values are
considerably larger than λ_(ab)(0) ≈ 170 nm of Hg-1223,[24, 25, 26]
which implies that BC-1223 has a small charge-carrier concentration
n_(s) and/or a large electronic effective mass m_(ab)^(*) in comparison
with Hg-1223, since the zero-temperature London penetration depth is
proportional to (m_(ab)^(*)/n_(s))^(1/2).

It is well known that the interlayer coupling strength[5, 6, 7, 8] and
the charge-carrier concentration within the CuO₂ planes are responsible
in determining the transition temperature of the layered
superconductors.[9] The T_(c) of BC-1223 is lower than that of Hg-1223,
even though BC-1223 shows a strong 3D nature from the enhanced
interlayer coupling. Thus we can infer that the relatively low T_(c)
originates from the relatively small charge-carrier concentration within
the CuO₂ planes.

For the estimation of the carrier concentration n_(s) , the following
relations[27] based on the GL and the BCS theories can be used:

$$\left(\frac{dH_{c}}{dT}\right)_{T_{c}}=-1.7367\left(\frac{H_{c}(0)}{T_{c}} \right)=-4.23\gamma^{1/2},$$
(1)

$$\left(\frac{dH_{c2}}{dT}\right)_{T_{c}}=-9.55\times 10^{24}\gamma^{2}T_{c} \left[n_{s}^{23}\frac{S}{S_{F}}\right]^{-2},$$
(2)

where γ is the Sommerfeld constant, S is the Fermi-surface area, and
S_(F) is the Fermi-surface area for a free-electron gas density n_(s) .
Assuming S≈ S_(F) , we obtained γ = 663 erg/cm³ K² and n_(s) = 2.3× 10²¹
cm⁻³ from the values H_(c)(0) , T_(c) , and (dH_(c2)/dT)_(T_(c)) . These
values are much smaller than γ^(∞) 1290 erg/cm³ K² and n_(s) = 5.5× 10²¹
cm⁻³ for Hg-1223 calculated using the values[24] of H_(c)(0) = 1.17 T,
T_(c) = 133.5 K, and − (dH_(c2)/dT)_(T_(c)) = 2.2 T/K.

## IV Conclusion

The temperature dependence of the magnetization was measured for the
c-axis oriented

Figure 4: Magnetization − 4 πM^(′) = − 4 $\pi M/\sqrt{2}H_{c}(T)$ vs
external magnetic field H^(′) = $H/\sqrt{2}H_{c}(T)$. The solid line
represents the universal curve derived from the Hao and Clem model,
assuming κ = 103. Inset: Temperature dependence of the thermodynamic
critical field H_(c)(T). The solid and dashed lines represent the BCS
temperature dependence and the two-fluid model, respectively.

Figure 5: Temperature dependence of the penetration depth λ_(ab)(T)
obtained from the Hao and Clem model. The solid and dashed lines
represent the BCS clean and dirty limits, respectively.

B_(0.6)C_(0.4)(Sr_(0.25)Ba_(0.75))₂Ca₂Cu₃O₉ in the field range of 1 T
≤_H_≤5 T. The strong interlayer coupling of this material was reflected
by the three-dimensional scaling behavior of the fluctuation-induced
magnetization and the narrow temperature region of the prominent vortex
fluctuations. This result originates from the relatively short
interlayer spacing. By the application of the Hao and Clem model, we
obtained various superconducting parameters such as the slope
(dH_(c2)/dT)_(T_(c)) and the in-plane penetration depth λ_(ab)(0).
Especially, the λ_(ab)(0) = 214 nm is significantly larger than that of
HgBa₂Ca₂Cu₃O_(8 + δ). This comparison reveals that the charge-carrier
concentration within the CuO₂ planes of
B_(0.6)C_(0.4)(Sr_(0.25)Ba_(0.75))₂Ca₂Cu₃O₉ is relatively smaller than
that of HgBa₂Ca₂Cu₃O_(8 + δ).

###### Acknowledgements.

This work was supported by the Korean Research Foundation, the Korean
Ministry of Education, the BSRI of POSTECH, the Korea Science and
Engineering Foundation (Contract No. 95-0702-03-01-3 and
961-0207-042-2).

## References

* [1] M. Uehara, H. Nakata, and J. Akimitsu, Physica C **216**, 456
(1993). * [2] M. Uehara, M. Uoshima, S. Ishiyama, H. Nakata, J.
Akimitsu, Y. Matsui, T. Arima, Y. Tokura, and N. Mori, Physica C
**229**, 310 (1994). * [3] J. Akimitsu, M. Sato, H. Takahashi, and N.
Mori, Physica C **271**, 79 (1996). * [4] A. Iyo, K. Tokiwa, N. Terada,
M. Tokumoto, and H. Ihara, Czech. J. Phys. **46**, 1481 (1996). * [5] J.
M. Wheatley, T. C. Hsu, and P. W. Anderson, Phys. Rev. B **37**, 5897
(1988). * [6] S. Chakravarty, A. Sudbo, P. W. Anderson, and S. Strong,
Science **261**, 337 (1993). * [7] Zlatko Tesanovic, Phys. Rev. B
**36**, 2364 (1987). * [8] Z. Ye, H. Umezawa, and R. Teshima, Phys. Rev.
B **44**, 351 (1991). * [9] S. L. Cooper and K. E. Gray, in _Physical
Properties of High Temperature Superconductors IV_, edited by D. M.
Ginsberg (World Scientific, Singapore, 1994), p. 61. * [10] Salman Ullah
and Alan T. Dorsey, Phys. Rev. Lett. **65**, 2066 (1990). * [11] Zhidong
Hao and John R. Clem, Phys. Rev. Lett. **67**, 2371 (1991). * [12]
Zhidong Hao, John R. Clem, M. W. McElfresh, L. Civale, A. P. Malozemoff,
and F. Holtzberg, Phys. Rev. B **43**, 2844 (1991). * [13] D. E.
Farrell, B. S. Chandrasekhar, M. R. DeGuire, M. M. Fang, V. G. Kogan, J.
R. Clem, and D. K. Finnemore, Phys. Rev. B **36**, 4025 (1987). * [14]
L. N. Bulaevskii, M. Ledvij, and V. G. Kogan, Phys. Rev. Lett. **68**,
3773 (1992). * [15] V. G. Kogan, M. Ledvij, A. Yu. Simonov, J. H. Cho,
and D. C. Johnston, Phys. Rev. Lett. **70**, 1870 (1993). * [16]
Mun-Seog Kim, Sung-Ik Lee, and W. C. Lee, Chin. J. Phys. **34**, 414
(1996). * [17] U. Welp, S. Fleshler, W. K. Kwok, R. A. Klemm, V. M.
Vinokur, J. Downey, B. Veal, and G. W. Crabtree, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**67**, 3180 (1991). * [18] Junghyun Sok, Ming Xu, Wei Chen, B. J. Suh,
J. Gohng, D. K. Finnemore, M. J. Kramer, L. A. Schwatzkopf, and B.
Dabrowski, Phys. Rev. B **51**, 6035 (1995). * [19] Mun-Seog Kim,
Wan-Seon Kim, Sung-Ik Lee, Seong-Cho Yu, Jin-Tae Kim, and B. Dabrowski,
J. Appl. Phys. **81**, 4231 (1997). * [20] Panagopoulos, J. R. Cooper,
G. B. Peacock, I. Gameson, P. P. Edwards, W. Schmidbauer, and J. W.
Hodby, Phys. Rev. B **53**, 2999 (1996). * [21] J. R. Clem, Ann. Phys.
(N.Y.) **40**, 286 (1966). * [22] C. J. Gorter and H. B. G. Casimir,
Physica (Amsterdam) **1**, 306 (1934). * [23] N. R. Werthamer, E.
Helfand, and P. C. Hohenberg, Phys. Rev. **147**, 295 (1966). * [24] J.
R. Thompson, J. G. Ossandon, D. K. Christen, M. Paranthaman, E. D.
Specht, and Y. C. Kim, Phys. Rev. B **54**, 7505 (1996). * [25] Y. C.
Kim, J. R. Thompson, J. G. Ossandon, D. K. Christen, and M. Paranthaman,
Phys. Rev. B **51**, 11 767 (1995). * [26] R. Puzniak, R. Usami, K.
Isawa, and H. Yamauchi, Phys. Rev. B **52**, 3756 (1995). * [27] T. P.
Orlando, Jr., E. J. McNiff, S. Foner, and M. R. Beasley, Phys. Rev. B
**19**, 4545 (1979).
