Specific-heat studies of the spin-orbit interaction in
noncentrosymmetric Li2(Pd1-_x_Pt_x_)3B (_x_ = 0,0.5,1) superconductors

H. Takeya

National Institute for Materials Science, 1-2-1 Sengen, Tsukuba, Ibaraki
305-0047, Japan

M. ElMassalami

Instituto de Fisica, Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro, Caixa
Postal 68528, 21945-970 Rio de Janeiro, Brazil

S. Kasahara

K. Hirata

National Institute for Materials Science, 1-2-1 Sengen, Tsukuba, Ibaraki
305-0047, Japan

11 April 2007; revised manuscript received 21 May 2007; published 11
September 2007

###### Abstract

The temperature- and field-dependent specific heat C(T, H) measurement
on the noncentrosymmetric superconductors Li2Pd3B, Li2Pt3B, and
Li2(Pd3Pt0.5)3B were carried out over a wide range of T and H. C(T, H)
of the limit compounds is found to be distinctly different: within the
superconducting phase, the electronic specific heat of the Pd-based
compound follows $C_{\rm d}^{5}$(T<T_(c)=6.95 K, 0 T) = 3 exp[−16.4/T]
J/mol K while for the Pt-based compound $C_{\rm d}^{5}$(T<T_(c)=2.56 K,
0 T) = αT² mJ/mol K, where α=7.3 mJ/mol K3. An increase in H tends to
reduce weakly the exponential argument and the coefficient of the
quadratic term. The above-mentioned findings are in agreement with the
description that, due to the difference in the strength of the
spin-orbit coupling, the pairing symmetry in the Pd- (Pt-) based
compound is predominately a spin-singlet (spin-triplet) state. Within
the very low-temperature range, the field-induced normal-state of the
Pd-based limit manifests $C^{\rm N}$(T,T>H_(c2))=9.37+1.173 mJ/mol K
while that of the Pt-based isomorph shows
$C^{\rm N}$(T,T>H_(c2))=9.37+0.9273 mJ/mol K. For the intermediate alloy
Li2(Pt0.5Pd0.5)3B, C(T, H) mimics that of the Pt-based compound;
specifically, $C_{\rm d}^{5}$(T<T_(c)=3.9 K, 0 T) = αT² mJ/mol K where
α=4.6(2) mJ/mol K3. The ratio of the coefficients of the quadratic terms
in Li2(Pt0.5Pd0.5)3B and Li2Pt3B,
$\alpha_{\rm Pd_{3}Pd_{3}}$/$\alpha_{\rm Pd_{3}}$, is equal to
$Z_{\rm Pd_{3},\rm Pd_{3}}^{2}$/$Z_{\rm Pd_{3}}^{2}$, confirming that
the line nodes are driven by the spin-orbit interaction. The finding
that these nodes can survive even in a 50

pacs: 74.70.Dd, 74.25.Bt, 74.62.Dh + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL
REVIEW B **76**, 104506 (2007)

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.76.104506

## I Introduction

The intermetallic superconductors Li2Pd3B and Li2Pt3B (Refs. 1-3)
crystallize[4] as a cubic structure with space group P4₃32 wherein the
symmetry group does not include the inversion symmetry operation; in
particular, the Pt and Pd atoms are situated at noncentrosymmetric
sites. Moreover, the higher atomic numbers of Pt ($Z_{\rm Pb}$) and Pd
($Z_{\rm Pd}$) together with the fact that their ratio
($Z_{\rm Pt}$/$Z_{\rm Pd}$)2 3 emphasize the importance of antisymmetric
spin-orbit coupling (ASOC) which, as evident, would be much stronger for
the Pt-based compound than its Pd-based isomorph. In general, the
absence of inversion symmetry together with a strong ASOC in
intermetallic matrices such as CePt3Si,[5] UIr,[6] are shown to give
rise to unconventional superconductivity. In contrast to these
(magnetic) superconductors, the titled compounds do not show strong
electronic or magnetic correlations;[7] as such they are attractive
candidates for studying possible exotic superconducting features.[8, 9]
Indeed, the presence of a strong ASOC in these Li-rich borides is shown
to give rise to an admixture of spin-singlet and spin-triplet pairing
states.[10, 11] That Li2Pt3B has a stronger ASOC is manifested as having
a predominantly spin-triplet pairing state and, due to the presence of
line nodes, a power-law temperature-dependence in its NMR relaxation
time[10] (1/T_(c) T³) and in its penetration depth[11] (ΔΔ ∝ T). On the
other hand, for Li2Pd3B, the thermal evolutions of its specific
heat,[12] penetration depth,[11, 13] and 1/T₁ (with a Hebel-Slichter
peak)[10] suggest a dominant, weakly anisotropic but fully gapped
spin-singlet state.

Considering that in the solid solution Li2(Pd1-2Pt3)3B, the Pt and Pd
atoms enter substitutionally (and in a random fashion) and that the
absence of centrosymmetric operation is maintained across the series,
then an increase in x would be accompanied by an increase in the
intensity of ASOC, presumably proportional to
[$xZ_{\rm Pb}$+(1−$x)Z_{\rm Pd}$]2. This, in turn, would enhance the
splitting of the degenerate electronic band into two spin-dependent
parts[9] leading to an x-dependent degradation of the superconductivity
of Li2(Pd1-2Pt3)3B (recall that doping Li2Pt3B with Pd leads to an
increase in T_(c), a feature indicative of a reduction in an
alloying-induced depairing effect). Along this line of arguments, the
almost linear x-dependent variations[2, 3] of T_(c), H_(c1), H_(c2), and
(∂H_(c2)/∂T)_(T_(c)) are being interpreted.[11] To qualify such an
interpretation, one should address the following objection: alloying
with Pt (the electronic configuration of which differs substantially
from that of Pd) would introduce a strong scattering channel which, in
addition to those channels inherent in (poly)crystals synthesized by the
arc-melting method, would lead to a shorter electron collision time τ
and as such the triplet component of the order parameter should be
strongly suppressed. If this scenario is correct, then the resulting
shorter τ would be reflected as, say, an expressive increase in the
temperature-independent, low-temperature resistivity of the
solid-solution. The extensive studies of Badica _et al.[3]_ does not
support this scenario; rather it showed that the ratio of the
normal-state resistivities of Li₂(Pd_(1 − x)Pt_(x))₃B is almost the same
(ρ₃₀₀/ρ₁₀= 1.4) for all solid solutions inclusive of the end members
(see Fig. 4 of Ref. [3]). It is worth adding that the density of state
N(E_(F)) is reported to be 2.9 state/eV formula unit for Pt-based
compound while 2.2 state/eV formula unit for Pd-based analog.[17, 18]
Moreover, the mean free path is calculated[11] to be 240 A for Li₂Pd₃B
and 420 A for Li₂Pt₃B. Considering a typical Fermi velocity of 3 x 105
m/s [Ref. [17]], then the relaxation time is expected to be ∼100 x 10⁻¹²
s.

It is evident from the earlier paragraph that, due to the action of the
ASOC, there is a distinct difference between the superconductivity of
the otherwise very much similar parent compounds. To appreciate such a
distinction, Table 1 shows some of the reported experimental parameters.
Evidently neither γ [as a measure of N(E_(F))] nor the Debye
temperatures could be useful in predicting the differences among the
superconductivity of the limit compounds. As the properties of these
compounds do not suggest any conventional pair-breaking mechanism, then
the above-mentioned variation in the perturbing ASOC would be a
reasonable explanation for the strong x-dependency of T_(c), H_(c1),
H_(c2), and (∂H_(c2)/∂T)_(T_(c)).[23] Though it is implicitly assumed,
power-law relations (or the admixture of spin-singlet and spin-triplet
states) have never been verified in any one of these alloyed
superconductors. Even for the _limit_ compounds, the verification of the
power-law relations was carried only for 1/T₁ and Δλ. Since these power
laws form a simple and a handy criterion for the evaluation of the ASOC
in these solid-solutions, then it is of interest to verify
experimentally the existence or absence of these power laws when these
noncentrosymmetric superconductors are subjected to a variation in x.
Similarly, the functional dependence of these quantities when H is
varied would be a welcome contribution. Such x- and H-dependent results
are crucial for the validity of the above-mentioned interpretation of
the x-dependence of T_(c), H_(c1), H_(c2), and (∂H_(c2)/∂T)_(T_(c)).
This work reports on the concentration-, thermal-, and field-dependent
superconducting specific heat, C_(c)^(S)(T, x, H), of
Li₂(Pd_(1 − x)Pt_(x))₃B (x=0.0, 0.5, and 1.0). Particular attention is
paid to the existence or absence of the power-law
relation[8]C_(c)^(S)(T, x, H)= α(x, H)T². In addition to confirming the
distinct difference between the superconductivity of the limit
compounds, we observed that even when the strength of the ASOC is varied
by 50

## II Experiment

Samples were prepared by a two-stage arc-melting process (for details,
see Ref. [1]). Based on our metallurgical, structural, and physical
characterizations, these samples are considered to be high-quality
single phases. Resistivity and magnetization results (not shown) are in
accord with those results given in Refs. [1-3]: in particular, the
temperature-independent residual resistivity of Li₂Pd₃B,
Li₂(Pd_(1/2)Pt_(1/2))₃B, and Li₂Pt₃B is found to be 0.115, 0.16, and
0.105 mΩ cm, respectively, and their respective ρ₃₀₀/ρ₁₀ is 1.3, 1.1,
and 1.2. Accordingly, we consider all the above-mentioned arguments
concerning the ineffectiveness of the scattering channels in quenching
the triplet component to be valid for the case of the solid solution
studied in this work.

The specific heat measurements were carried out on two different setups:
a heat-pulse relaxation-type calorimeter operating within the range 0.4
K < T< 20 K and H≤ 70 kOe, (a commercial one from Oxford Instruments),
and a pulse, relaxation-type calorimeter operating within the range 1.8
K < T< 20 K and H≤ 70 kOe (a Quantum Design setup).

## III Results and Discussion

In an earlier work,[12] we argued that C_(c)^(S)(T, 0 T) of Li₂Pt₃B
follows an exponential, activated process and that at very
low-temperature, the experimental curve deviates upwards away from this
exponential description. Being aware of the difficulty in the
stoichiometry control of the highly volatile Li,[2, 3] we attributed
this deviation to extrinsic effects. Now that there are independent
confirmations that such a deviation is intrinsic,[10, 11] then, on
reanalysis,[11] a quadratic thermal dependence is observed to be a
better description (see the inset of Fig. 5 below where the exponential
and quadratic descriptions are compared). It is emphasized that due to
the above-mentioned variation in the Li stoichiometry, care should be
exercised when comparing results from different samples: the reported
wide scatter in T_(c) (H=0) provide the best illustration (see, e.g.,
Table 1). As far as specific heat curves are concerned this is
convincingly shown in Fig. 1: though the curves of Fig. 1 are different
for T>T_(c) (H=0), they tend to merge at lower temperatures suggesting
that the Li variation is mostly reflected in the lattice contribution.
Evidently, only within these lowest temperature regions, the
determination of some of the physical parameters (in particular γ) would
be sample-independent. At any rate, the overall

             Experiment parameters (Ref. [12])                                      Electrodynamic parameters (Refs. [3, 10, and 11])                                                               
  --------- ----------------------------------- ------------- -------- ----------- --------------------------------------------------- --------- ------ ------ ------------------------ ----------- -----------
    2-13                   T_(c)                      γ        θ_(D)                                      T_(c)                            ρ       ξ      l     $\lambda_{\rm d}$[0 K]      2Δ₀      N(E_(F))
   Li₂T₃B                   (K)                  (mJ/mol K²)    (K)     ΔC/γT_(c)                          (K)                          (μΩ cm)   (nm)   (nm)            (nm)               (K)      (1/eV/fu)
   Li₂Pd₃B                7.5(3)                   9.0(1)      221(1)    2.0(3)                            6.7                            20      9.5     24             190             29.6(1.0)     2.24
   Li₂Pt₃B                2.17(5)                  7.0(1)      228(1)    1.39(3)                          2.43                            28      14.5    42             364              7.7(2)        2.9

Table 1: Some normal and superconducting parameters of Li₂Pd₃B and
Li₂Pt₃B. All notations have their usual definitions. Note that while the
superconducting parameters of Li₂Pd₃B are substantially enhanced as
compared to those of Li₂Pt₃B, their normal-state parameters are almost
equal. The discrepancy among these parameters (in particular T_(c), γ,
and β) and those of the present work is discussed in the text and Fig.
1.

features of the T-, H-, and x-dependence of these Li-based compounds are
found to be the same and as such the conclusions drawn in this work (as
well as in other investigations) are almost sample-independent.

### Normal-state specific heat

The total specific heat of Li₂(Pd_(1 − x)Pt_(x))₃B (x=0.0, 0.5, and 1.0)
is shown in Figs. 2-4. For the interesting range of temperature (0.4 K <
T< 10 K), the phonon contribution, taken as βT³, reflects the difference
among the atomic weight of Pt and Pd. Since other contributions such as
nuclear, crystal-field, or magnetic terms are absent, then the T-, H-,
and x-dependence of the specific heat would be shaped exclusively by the
electronic degrees of freedom, C_(e)(T, H, x). Assuming that the phonon
contribution is field-independent (at least for the moderate fields
employed) then C_(e)(T, H, x) can be obtained by simple subtraction.

A closer look at the thermal evolution of Figs. 2-4 reveals that for
H>H_(c2) the normal-state specific heat evolves as C_(e)^(N)(T, H>
H_(c2))= γT+ βT³. Moreover, the insets of Figs. 2-4 show that there are
at least two separate regions of temperature, each with a different set
of γ and β. For all compounds, the slope of the high-regime linear C/T
versus T² curve is larger than that of the low-regime one: such a change
of slope in the immediate neighborhood of T_(c) is manifested in many
compounds, e.g., the A15 Nb₃Sn samples [14] (some aspect of this feature
can be detected in the nonmagnetic quaternary borocarbides [15, 16]).

It is observed that, on cooling to temperatures below 0.5 K,
C_(e)^(N)(T, H> H_(c2)) of all samples deviates weakly downwards away
from this relation; our present experimental conditions do not permit a
further clarification. We observed no evidence of field-dependence in γ
or β for T> 0.5 K. Finally, Table 2 shows that, within the experimental
errors, while the values of β do show a consistent x-dependence, those
of γ do not show a clear variation, at least not as the trend expected
from the electronic structure calculations. [17, 18] We note that while
the above-mentioned Li nonstoichiometry still poses a problem, however,
our present determination of these parameters is more reliable since the
measurements had been made on better samples (judged by Figs. 2-4) and
extended to a very low temperature range.

### Superconducting specific heats

The evolution of C_(e)^(S)(T, H) of Li₂(Pd_(1 − x)Pt_(x))₃B (x=0.0, 0.5,
and 1.0) is shown in Figs. 5-7: as evident, C_(e)^(S)(T, H) of the Pd
limit shows an exponential dependence (Fig. 7) while that of each of
Li₂(Pd_(0.5)Pt_(0.5))₃B (inset of Fig. 6) and Li₂Pt₃B (inset of Fig. 5)
follows a quadratic temperature dependence. Though the normal-state γ
(Table 2) does not manifest an x-dependence, however, the ratio
ΔC_(e)/γT_(c)_does_ show that, giving approximately 1.7, 1.1, and 0.8
for x=0.0, 0.5, and 1.0, respectively: this is in good agreement with
what is expected when the strength of the ASOC is increased. It is
interesting that the quadratic dependence is manifested in C_(e)^(S)(T)
of Li₂(Pd_(0.5)Pt_(0.5))₃B (see the inset of Fig. 6) revealing that the
triplet component of the order parameter is not being

Figure 1: (Color online) (a) C/T versus T² curves of two different
samples of Li₂Pd₃B. Open (closed) symbols represent measurements under
zero (▴: 5 T, ⬧: 7 T) field. (b) Zero-field C/T versus T² curves of two
different samples of Li₂Pt₃B measured on two different setups. Data
represented by circles (triangles) were measured on a
relaxation-(semi-adiabatic-) type calorimeter. In each panel, the inset
shows an expanded low-temperature range wherein the two independently
measured curves merge (see text).

Figure 2: (Color online) Field-dependent C/T versus T² curves of
Li₂Pt₃B. Inset: an extended C/T versus T² curve at H=3 T ( >H_(c2)). The
solid (dashed) line represents the fit for T<T_(c) (T>T_(c)) (see Table
2).

destroyed (see the earlier arguments in the Introduction) and that the
line nodes _do_ survive the 50

Figure 5 for Li₂Pt₃B and Fig. 6 for Li₂(Pd_(0.5)Pt_(0.5))₃B demonstrate
that, in moderate fields, the quadratic T-dependent expression is
maintained over a reasonable range of temperatures. This is in accord
with the studies of Yuan _et al._[11] and Nishiyama _et al._[10] wherein
moderate fields do not destroy the line nodes features. Furthermore,
when H is increased, α(H) suffers a weak decrease: this may be
attributed to a decrease in the condensate contribution. It is noted
that for H>H_(c1), the intercept of the C/γT versus T/T_(c) curve is
increased with H: the quasiparticles excitations within the Abrikosov
state contribute an additional linear term expressed normally as γ(H)T;
the number of these excitations is proportional either to H or
$\sqrt{H}$ depending on the pairing symmetry (see, e.g., Refs. [19] and
[20]): indeed for the case of the S-wave Li₂Pd₃B superconductor, we
observed that at low temperature γ(H)−γ(H=0) = γ_(N)H/H_(c2). Then, as
can be inferred from this observation and verified in Fig. 7, the
zero-field exponential character of $C_{e}^{\rm s}$ of Li₂Pd₃B is not
maintained in any of the applied fields: since the character of such a
field-dependent contribution is nonexponential, then the total
contribution would not show the Arrhenius-type behavior, in particular
at

Figure 4: (Color online) Field-dependent C/T versus T² curves of
Li₂Pd₃B. Inset: an extended C/T versus T² curve at H=3 T ( >H_(c2)). The
solid (dashed) line represents the fit for T<T_(c) (T>T_(c)) (see Table
II).

Figure 5: (Color online) Field-dependent C_(e)/γT versus T/T_(c) curve
of Li₂Pt₃B. Inset: the zero-field C_(e)/γT_(c) versus T/T_(c) curve. The
solid (dashed) line represents the relation
C_(e)/γT_(c)=2.0(T/T_(c))²[C_(e)/γT_(c)=6.93 exp(−1.37T_(c)/T) mJ/mol K]
evidently for T<T_(c), the calculated quadratic (exponential) curve
describes the measured electronic contribution very well in the lower
(higher) temperature range. As far as the low-temperature behavior is
concerned, the quadratic evolution is a much better description.

very low temperatures where such a field-dependent contribution is
relatively larger. It is taken that such type of arguments can be
applied to distinguish and clarify the differences between a
predominantly spin-singlet, a predominately spin-triplet, or an
admixture of spin-triplet and spin-singlet states.

The _x_-dependent evolution in the specific heats of Li2(Pd1-2Pt4)3B can
be better discussed if the zero-field contributions are rewritten as
C_(e)^(S) = α(H, x)T² and C_(e)^(S) = η(H, x)exp[-D(_H_,x)/_T_]. It is
noted that for both Li2Pt3B (Fig. 5) and Li2(Pd0.5Pt0.5)3B (Fig. 6),
α(H, x) increases monotonically with _x_: an increase in x would
increase the strength of the ASOC and as a consequence increase the
line-nodes contribution. On the other hand, the strong reduction of ASOC
in Li2Pd3B (Fig. 7) is conducive to a dominant gapped spin-singlet state
with an effective value as given in Fig. 7. Finally, let us discuss the
influence of nonmagnetic impurities on the nonconventional
superconductivity of Li2Pt3B; such impurities are expected to act as
depairing centers and consequently lead to a suppression of T_(c) and
to, e.g., a linear-in-_T_ specific heat term at low temperature.[8] That
such features are not evident in the superconductivity of
Li2(Pd1-2Pt4)3B (see the results of this work and those of Badica _et
al.[3]_) confirms our earlier arguments that the alloying process should
be considered (not as a depairing effect, but rather) as a means of
varying the ASOC.

## IV IV. Conclusion

The specific heat of Li2(Pd1-2Pt4)3B (_x_ = 0.0, 0.5, and 1.0) has been
studied as a function of temperature, magnetic field, and Pt
concentration. It is found that C_(e)^(S)(T) of Li2Pt3B and
Li2(Pd0.5Pt0.5)3B follows a quadratic relation revealing an existence of
line nodes in the gap function. On the other hand, C_(e)^(S)(T) of
Li2Pd3B follows a conventional exponential behavior suggestive of a
nodeless gap function. It is noted that for

  -------- ------- ------------- ------------- -------------------------- ------------------ ------------
            T_(c)       γT            βT³       C_(s)(0 T) = ηexp (−Δ/T)   C_(s)(0 T) = αT²  
                         γ             β                   η                      Δ               α
   Li2T₃B    (K)    (mJ/mol K2)   (mJ/mol K4)          (mJ/mol K)                (K)          (mJ/mol K)
  -------- ------- ------------- ------------- -------------------------- ------------------ ------------

Table 2: The zero-field superconducting specific heat contribution is
fitted either to a quadratic term [C_(s)(T, 0 T) = αT²] or an
exponential term [C_(s)(T, 0 T) = ηexp (−Δ/T)]. γ and β (used in the
subtraction of the normal-state contribution) are obtained from the fits
shown in Figs. 2–4.

Figure 6: (Color online) Field-dependent C_(e)/γT versus T/T_(c) curve
of Li2(Pd0.5Pt0.5)3B. Inset: the zero-field C_(e)/γT_(c) versus T/T_(c)
curve. The solid line represents the relation
C_(e)/γT_(c)=1.9(T/T_(c))². The low-temperature weak deviation from the
quadratic behavior may be attributed to minor normal phases.

Figure 7: (Color online) C_(e)/γT_(c) versus T/T_(c) curves of Li2Pd3B.
To show the exponential character, the abscissa is displayed as a
reciprocal of T/T_(c) while the ordinate is in logarithm base 10. Inset:
zero-field C_(e)/γT_(c) versus T/T_(c) curve of Li2Pd3B. For T<T_(c),
the solid lines represent C_(e)/γT_(c)=46.4 exp(−2.36T_(c)/T).

both Li₂Pt₃B and Li₂(Pd_(0.5)Pt_(0.5))₃B, the coefficient of the
quadratic contribution α(H, x) decreases with H but increases with x: an
increase in x strengthens the ASOC and as such would increase the
contribution from the line nodes. For Li₂Pd₃B, the H- and x-dependent
modification of C_(i)^(S)(T, H) is as expected for a predominately
conventional spin-singlet superconductor.

Evidently, the present specific heat results on these
non-centrosymmetric superconductors are in accord with the recent NMR
and penetration depth studies and as such constitute an additional
confirmation of the statement that the spin-triplet (spin-singlet) state
is dominant in the Pt-based (Pd-based) compound. Interestingly, the 50

###### Acknowledgements.

We acknowledge the partial financial support from the Japan Society for
the Promotion of Science and the Brazilian agencies CNPq (485058/2006-5)
and Faperj (E-26/171.343/2005).

## References

* [1] K. Togano, P. Badica, Y. Nakamori, S. Orimo, H. Takeya, and K.
Hirata, Phys. Rev. Lett. **93**, 247004 (2004). * [2] P. Badica, T.
Kondo, T. Kudo, Y. Nakamori, S. Orimo, and K. Togano, Appl. Phys. Lett.
**85**, 4433 (2004). * [3] P. Badica, T. Kondo, and K. Togano, J. Phys.
Soc. Jpn. **74**, 1014 (2005). * [4] U. Eibenstein and W. Jung, J. Solid
State Chem. **133**, 21 (1997). * [5] E. Bauer, G. Hilscher, H. Michor,
C. Paul, E. W. Scheidt, A. Gribanov, Y. Seropegin, H. Noel, M. Sigrist,
and P. Rogl, Phys. Rev. Lett. **92**, 027003 (2004). * [6] T. Akazawa,
H. Hidaka, T. Fujiwara, T. C. Kobayashi, E. Yamamoto, Y. Haga, R.
Settai, and Y. Onuki, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter **16**, 129 (2004). *
[7] T. Yokoya, T. Muto, I. Hase, H. Takeya, K. Hirata, and K. Togano,
Phys. Rev. B **71**, 092507 (2005). * [8] M. Sigrist and K. Ueda, Rev.
Mod. Phys. **63**, 239 (1991). * [9] P. A. Frigeri, D. F. Agterberg, and
M. Sigrist, New J. Phys. **6**, 115 (2004). * [10] M. Nishiyama, Y.
Inada, and G.-Q. Zheng, Phys. Rev. Lett. **98**, 047002 (2007). * [11]
H. Q. Yuan, D. F. Agterberg, N. Hayashi, P. Badica, D. Vandervelde, K.
Togano, M. Sigrist, and M. B. Salamon, Phys. Rev. Lett. **97**, 017006
(2006). * [12] H. Takeya, K. Hirata, K. Yamaura, K. Togano, M. El
Massalami, R. Rapp, F. A. Chaves, and B. Ouladdiaf, Phys. Rev. B **72**,
104506 (2005). * [13] R. Khasanov, I. L. Landau, C. Baines, F.
LaMattina, A. Masiwadze, K. Togano, and H. Keller, Phys. Rev. B **73**,
214528 (2006). * [14] G. R. Stewart and B. L. Brandt, Phys. Rev. B
**29**, 3908 (1984). * [15] M. Nohara, M. Isshiki, F. Sakai, and H.
Takagi, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **68**, 1078 (1999). * [16] M. Nohara, M.
Isshiki, H. Takagi, and R. J. Cava, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **66**, 1888
(1997). * [17] K. W. Lee and W. E. Pickett, Phys. Rev. B **72**, 174505
(2005). * [18] S. Chandra, S. M. Jaya, and M. C. Valsakumar, Physica C
**432**, 116 (2005). * [19] C. Caroli, P. G. de Gennes, and J. Matricon,
Phys. Lett. **9**, 307 (1964). * [20] G. E. Volovik, JETP Lett. **58**,
469 (1993).
