Emergence of superconductivity in BaNi₂(Ge_(1 − x)P_(x))₂ at a
structural instability

Daigorou Hirai, F. von Rohr, and R. J. Cava

Department of Chemistry, Princeton University, Princeton, New Jersey
08544, USA

Received 14 July 2012; revised manuscript received 5 September 2012;
published 19 September 2012

###### Abstract

The physical properties and structural evolution of the 122-type solid
solution BaNi₂(Ge_(1 − x)P_(x))₂ are reported. The in-plane _X-X_ (_X_ =
Ge_(1 − x)P_(x)) dimer formation present in the end member BaNi₂Ge₂,
which results in a structural transition to orthorhombic symmetry, is
completely suppressed to zero temperature on P substitution near
x = 0.7, and a dome-shaped superconducting phase with a maximum
$T_{\rm c}=2.9$ K emerges. Clear indications of phonon softening and
enhanced electron-phonon coupling are observed at the composition of the
structural instability. Our findings show that dimer breaking offers
possibilities as a tuning parameter of superconductivity.

pacs: DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.86.100505 [PACS number(s): 74.70.Dd,
74.25.Dw, 61.50.Ks, 74.25.Bt ]

Several superconductors with high transition temperatures ($T_{\rm c}$)
are located near structural instabilities, for example, A15
compounds,[1] perovskite bismuthates.[2] cubic tungsten bronzes,[3] and
intercalated graphite under high pressure.[4, 5] The instability that
leads to the structural phase transition is characterized by phonon
softening, and the resulting enhanced electron-phonon coupling is
believed to play a significant role for the high $T_{\rm c}$’s. The
relationships between structural instabilities and superconductivity
have provided much work of interest in the past 50 years.

The tetragonal ThCr₂Si₂ ("122") structure type is a layered structure
with edge-sharing transition metal-metalloid TX₄ tetrahedra making
$T_{\rm x}$₂ layers that alternate with layers of the large A atoms (A:
alkali metal, alkaline earth metal, rare earth; T: transition metal; X:
metalloid). Previous studies have revealed that some AT₂X₂ compounds are
located at a structural instability between two different 122 structural
types: a collapsed tetragonal (cT) phase and an uncollapsed tetragonal
(ucT) phase.[6, 7] The structural change from ucT to cT, resulting in
significantly reduced ratios of stacking to in-plane lattice parameters
(i.e., c/a) is driven by the formation of a moleculelike X-X dimer
across the A atom layer. Lattice collapse transitions from the ucT to
the cT phase can be controlled by applied physical[8, 9, 10] and
chemical pressures.[11, 12, 13] and recent research has demonstrated the
usability of chemical bond breaking as a tuning parameter to control
physical properties.[14, 15, 16]

BaNi₂P₂ is a ucT 122-type superconductor with a $T_{\rm c}$ of 2.5
K.[17, 18] BaNi₂Ge₂, on the other hand, is a 122-type normal metal with
a lattice distortion due to Ge-Ge dimer formation, but not of the cT-ucT
lattice collapse type. It crystallizes in an ordinary ucT ThCr₂Si₂-type
structure at high temperature, but exhibits a structural transition to
an orthorhombic phase (space group Pnma) on cooling below 753 K.[19] The
important consequence of the structural transition is that equal Ge-Ge
distances in the Ni₂Ge₂ layers at high temperature (3.61 A at 783 K) are
split into one short distance (2.93 A at 753 K) and two much longer
distances (3.69 and 3.72 A at 753 K) below the phase transition, as
shown in Fig. 1(a). This structural transition is the result of in-plane
Ge-Ge dimer formation in the Ni₂Ge₂ layer. This unusual structural
instability is driven by the strong tendency toward Ge-Ge bonding in
122-type structures as a consequence of the electron count[6] even
though, due to the presence of the large Ba ion, the layers are too far
apart in BaNi₂Ge₂ for the usual X-X bond across the A layer seen in the
cT phases.

In this Rapid Communication, we demonstrate the systematic suppression
of the in-plane dimer phase of BaNi₂Ge₂ by P doping. A dome-shaped
superconducting phase emerges at the structural instability where the
dimer phase is suppressed and a ucT phase appears. The enhanced
specific-heat jump at the superconducting transition at the critical
border of instability of the dimer phase and the ucT phase strongly
suggests that phonon softening induced by dimer breaking is responsible
for the enhanced $T_{\rm c}$. Our finding demonstrates that dimer
breaking offers a possibility as a tuning parameter of
superconductivity.

Conventional solid-state reactions were employed to synthesize the
polycrystalline samples. As the first step, BaNi₂P₂ and BaNi₂Ge₂ were
made by mixing elemental Ba (99

All products were initially characterized by laboratory powder x-ray
diffraction (XRD, Bruker D8, Cu Kα radiation). Selected samples were
characterized with high resolution synchrotron powder diffraction at
beamline 11-BM at the Advanced Photon Source (APS) at Argonne National
Laboratory using an average wavelength of 0.413 08 A. The structures
were refined by the Rietveld method using the fullprof program.[20]

Magnetic susceptibility, resistivity, and heat capacity measurements
were performed by a magnetic properties measurement system (MPMS:
Quantum Design) and a physical property measurement system (PPMS:
Quantum Design). Specific-heat measurements down to 0.4 K were performed
in a PPMS equipped with a ³He insert.

The structural instability that results from in-plane dimer breaking,
which can be recognized as the structural transition from an
orthorhombic phase to a tetragonal phase, was clearly observed between
x = 0.2 and 0.4 in the room-temperature XRD patterns. As shown in the
inset of Fig. 1, the 112 and 011 peaks in the orthorhombic cell at low P
content become a single 112 peak in the tetragonal cell above a P
content of x = 0.3. This disappearance of peak splitting indicates that
the distortion of the Ni₂X₂ (X= Ge_(1 − x)P_(x)) layers originating from
the X-X dimer formation is relaxed and that the Ni₂X₂ lattice becomes a
regular square.

The XRD pattern for x = 0.3 can be refined with a mixture of tetragonal
BaNi₂P₂-like and orthorhombic BaNi₂Ge₂-like phases with a ratio of 6:4.
There is no indication of chemical phase separation into BaNi₂P₂-like
and BaNi₂Ge₂-like phases, except for x = 0.3, in
BaNi₂(Ge_(1 − x)P_(x))₂, and the XRD patterns of BaNi₂(Ge_(1 − x)P_(x))₂
with x below and above 0.3 were well refined with orthorhombic (_Pmma_)
and tetragonal cells (_14/mmm_), respectively. The systematic change in
the room-temperature XRD pattern indicates that the dimer formation at
753 K in BaNi₂Ge₂ (Ref. [19]) is driven down in temperature by P
substitution and straddles room temperature at a P content of x = 0.3.

Figure 1 shows the room-temperature lattice parameters as a function of
P concentration for BaNi₂(Ge_(1 − x)P_(x))₂ determined by the refinement
of the XRD data. The b axis (c axis in the tetragonal phase), a measure
of unit cell perpendicular to the Ni₂X₂ layers, decreases monotonically,
but nonlinearly, with P content x. On the other hand, the a and c axes
(a axis in the tetragonal phase), measures of the Ni₂X₂ in-plane
dimensions, increase. This anisotropic change in lattice parameters with
increasing P content is in striking contrast to what is seen in the
highly analogous conventional solid solution LaNi₂(Ge_(1 − x)P_(x))₂,
where they decrease monotonically with increasing P content[21] due to
the simple chemical pressure effect that occurs when substituting P
(atomic radius of 1.00 A) for Ge (atomic radius of 1.25 A).[22] When the
Ge is totally substituted by P, the crystal structure of BaNi₂P₂ is in a
uct phase with a large ratio of stacking to in-plane lattice parameters
(c/a) of 3.0, consistent with previous reports.[23]

As the transition temperature of in-plane dimer breaking (T_(s)) is
suppressed with increasing P content, T_(s) comes into the temperature
range of our resistivity measurements and is clearly observed above
x = 0.3, as shown in Fig. 2. All the BaNi₂(Ge_(1 − x)P_(x))₂ samples
have resistivities below 1 mΩ cm at 300 K, indicating the metallic
nature of these compounds. The resistivities of both of the end members
BaNi₂Ge₂ (x = 0) and BaNi₂P₂ (x = 1) show a monotonic decrease on
cooling without any anomaly. In the intermediate doping range of
x = 0.3-0.6, however, the resistivity data show a local maximum
accompanied by hysteresis. The clear hysteresis in resistivity data
indicates that the dimer breaking transition is of first order. From
x = 0.3 to 0.6 the peak position systematically decreases in temperature
and the hysteresis smears out. Finally, the anomaly completely
disappears above a P content of x = 0.7 and normal metallic behavior is
recovered.

Figure 2: (Color online) The temperature dependence of the electrical
resistivity of BaNi₂(Ge_(1 − x)P_(x))₂ with various P concentrations.
Each data set is normalized by the resistivity value at 350 K and
shifted to avoid overlap. Arrows indicate the low-temperature end points
of the hysteresis.

Figure 1: (Color online) (a) A comparison of the P and Ge atom planes in
the crystal structures of BaNi₂P₂ (_14/mmm_) and BaNi₂Ge₂ (_Pmma_).
Dotted squares represent unit cells. The ovals indicate the shortest
Ge-Ge bonds in the Ni₂Ge₂ layer. (b) The P content dependence of the
in-plane and perpendicular-to-plane lattice parameters of
BaNi₂(Ge_(1 − x)P_(x))₂. The inset is an enlarged XRD pattern showing
the change in the crystal symmetry with P content. Bold lines and dots
represent synchrotron and laboratory XRD patterns, respectively.

When the structural transition observed through the anomaly in the
resistivity data of BaNi₂(Ge_(1 − x)P_(x))₂ is completely suppressed at
a P content x = 0.7, a superconducting transition is observed in
low-temperature magnetization data. Figure 3(a) shows that a large
diamagnetic signal hallmarking bulk superconductivity is observed in the
samples with a P content of x = 0.7-1.0. The $T_{\rm c}$ reaches a
maximum of about 2.9 K for x = 0.8 and then decreases slightly for
higher P content. The $T_{\rm c}=2.5$ K for the x = 1 compound BaNi₂P₂
is consistent with the previous report for a single crystal.[18] Further
investigation of the superconducting phase down to 0.4 K was performed
by a heat capacity measurement. A large heat capacity jump corresponding
to the superconducting transition is clearly observed in
BaNi₂(Ge_(1 − x)P_(x))₂ with x ≥ 0.7 [Fig. 3(b)]. Superconducting
transitions were also observed for the lower P contents of x = 0.4-0.6.
Below x = 0.3, superconductivity is no longer observed above our lowest
measurement temperature of 0.4 K. All the samples show very sharp
transitions, indicating that they are highly homogeneous.

A detailed analysis of the low-temperature specific-heat data shows
clear indication of the criticality of the dimer-breaking structural
instability. The normal-state heat capacity data under an applied field
that suppresses the superconductivity can be well fitted by the equation
C/T = γ + βT², where γ is the electronic specific-heat coefficient and β
is the phonon contribution. As the P content increases, γ increases
monotonically from BaNi₂Ge₂ to BaNi₂P₂, while the Debye temperature
(Θ_(D)) calculated from β has a minimum around the structural phase
instability, as shown in Figs. 4(a) and 4(b). A similar suppression of
Θ_(D) and the emergence of superconductivity have been reported in Pd-
and Pt-doped IrTe₂ at the critical concentration where the structural
transition characterized by Ir-Ir bond formation is completely
suppressed.[24, 25] In contrast, both γ and β of
LaNi₂(Ge_(1 − x)P_(x))₂, where the end members LaNi₂Ge₂ and LaNi₂P₂
crystallize in the same cT structure type, decrease monotonically with
increasing P content.[21]

The criticality can be more clearly observed in the normalized
specific-heat jump at the superconducting transition
($\Delta C/\gamma T_{\rm c}$), as shown in Fig. 4(b). The value of
$\Delta C/\gamma T_{\rm c}$ exhibits a clear maximum centered at the
composition boundary between the dimer and ucT phases. The Fermi surface
and transport properties of the BaNi₂P₂ superconductor are distinct from
those of the iron-pnictide superconductors[18, 26] and BaNi₂P₂ is
considered to be a phonon-mediated conventional superconductor.
Considering that $\Delta C/\gamma T_{\rm c}$ can be underestimated due
to nonsuperconducting contributions to γ and the broadness of the
superconducting transition, the value of
$\Delta C/\gamma T_{\rm c}\sim 1.1$ for BaNi₂P₂ agrees reasonably with a
BCS weak coupling value of 1.43. At x = 0.8, however,
$\Delta C/\gamma T_{\rm c}$ increases by 50

Figure 4: (Color online) The P content dependence of (a) The electronic
specific-heat coefficients (γ). (b) The Debye temperatures (Θ_(D))
obtained from low-temperature fits of the specific-heat data and the
normalized specific-heat jumps at $T_{\rm c}$
($\Delta C/\gamma T_{\rm c}$). Error bars for γ are less than the point
size. (c) The electronic phase diagram (logarithmic T) of
BaNi₂(Ge_(1 − x)P_(x))₂. Solid squares represent superconducting
transition temperatures ($T_{\rm c}$) determined from heat capacity
measurements. Solid and open triangles are the structural transition
temperatures ($T_{\rm c}$) determined by powder XRD data and obtained
from Ref. [10], respectively. Open squares and circles represent,
respectively, the $T_{\rm c}$ upon cooling and heating determined from
the resistivity data.

Figure 3: (Color online) The temperature dependence of the dc
magnetization (M/H) under an applied magnetic field of 10 Oe and the
electronic part of the specific heat divided by temperature
($C_{\rm e}/T$) for BaNi₂(Ge_(1 − x)P_(x))₂.

As summarized in the electronic phase diagram [Fig. 4(c)], the emergence
of the superconducting phase in BaNi₂(Ge_(1 − x)P_(x))₂ is strongly
correlated with the structural instability caused by the in-plane dimer
breaking transition. When the P content x increases, the
room-temperature crystal structure changes from orthorhombic to
tetragonal at x = 0.3, and the anomaly in resistivity data, indicative
of the structural phase transition, is driven down in temperature. A
superconducting phase emerges at x = 0.5, and $T_{\rm c}$ abruptly
increases with the dimer phase suppressed; finally $T_{\rm c}$ reaches a
maximum at x = 0.8 when the dimer is fully broken.

Electronic-structure calculations show that the valence band around the
Fermi level in BaNi₂P₂ is formed predominantly by a strongly hybridized
transition-metal d and metalloid p states.[27] With the presence of
covalent Ge-Ge in-plane bonding, the Fermi level for BaNi₂Ge₂ must be
located between the bonding orbitals (σ) and antibonding orbitals
(σ^(*)) of the Ge-Ge dimer. The dimer is absent in BaNi₂P₂ due to the
higher electron count, which results in occupancy of the antibonding
σ^(*) dimer band. Therefore, the structural instability in
BaNi₂(Ge_(1 − x)P_(x))₂ is brought about by doping electrons into the
X-X dimer antibonding orbital.[5] This complements our recent research
on SrCo₂(Ge_(1 − x)P_(x))₂ (Ref. [11]) and LaCo₂(Ge_(1 − x)P_(x))₂,[13]
which revealed that a conventional lattice collapse transition, a result
of interlayer X-X dimer formation, can be controlled by P doping of
germanides. Hall coefficient measurements (not shown) indicate that P
substitution does not simply drop BaNi₂(Ge_(1 − x)P_(x))₂ with
electrons, consistent with electronic-structure calculations on this
phase[27] that predicted to have a multiband character at Fermi energy.

In contrast to the gradual increase in γ, clear criticality is observed
in both the Debye temperatures and specific-heat jumps at $T_{\rm c}$ in
the BaNi₂(Ge_(1 − x)P_(x))₂ system. These observations lead us to
propose that enhanced electron-phonon coupling due to softening phonons
is responsible for the enhancement of $T_{\rm c}$ at the boundary of the
dimer breaking structural instability. An enhancement of $T_{\rm c}$ at
the boundary of two different structures has been reported, for example,
in tellurium under high pressure, where $T_{\rm c}$ jumps from 2.5 to
7.4 K.[28] First-principles calculations have pointed out that the jump
in $T_{\rm c}$ in that case can be explained by the enhancement of the
electron-phonon interaction.[29] Recently, Kudo _et al._ found a
discontinuous increase in $T_{\rm c}$ from 0.6 to 3.3 K in
BaNi₂(As_(1 − x)P_(x))₂ at the boundary of a triclinic lower P content
phase and a tetragonal high P content phase.[30] A similar reduction in
Debye temperature and enhanced $\Delta C/\gamma T_{\rm c}$ is observed
in that system. It is interesting to note that $T_{\rm c}$ shows a
stepwise increase in both Te and BaNi₂(As_(1 − x)P_(x))₂ at the phase
boundary, in contrast to the dome-shaped superconducting phase in
BaNi₂(Ge_(1 − x)P_(x))₂. Further theoretical and experimental
investigations, especially on soft phonon modes in 122 structure types,
will be useful to clarify the difference between these systems and to
look at the possibilities for achieving superconductivity with higher
$T_{\rm c}$’s. The strong correlation between the structural transition
and superconductivity BaNi₂(Ge_(1 − x)P_(x))₂ gives rise to an
opportunity for employing dimer breaking as a control parameter of
superconductivity.

The authors thank B. Toby, L. Ribaud, and M. Suchomel at beamline 11-BM
at the APS for their excellent diffraction data, and L. M. Schoop for
helpful discussions. This work was supported by the US DOE Office of
Basic Energy Sciences, Grant No. DE-FG02-45706. Use of the APS at
Argonne National Laboratory was supported by the US DOE, Office of
Science, Office of Basic Energy Sciences, under Contract No.
DE-AC02-06CH11357.

## References

* [1] L. R. Testardi, Rev. Mod. Phys. **47**, 637 (1975). * [2] D. G.
Hinks, D. R. Richards, B. Dabrowski, D. T. Marx, and A. W. Mitchell,
Nature (London) **335**, 419 (1988). * [3] H. R. Shanks, Solid State
Commun. **15**, 753 (1974). * [4] J. S. Kim, L. Boeri, R. K. Kremer, and
F. S. Razavi, Phys. Rev. B **74**, 214513 (2006). * [5] A. Gauzzi, S.
Takashima, N. Takeshita, C. Terakura, H. Takagi, N. Emery, C. Herold, P.
Lagrange, and G. Loupias, Phys. Rev. Lett. **98**, 067002 (2007). * [6]
R. Hoffman and C. Zheng, J. Phys. Chem. **89**, 4175 (1985). * [7] G.
Just and P. Paulfer, J. Alloys Compd. **232**, 1 (1996). * [8] P.
Canfield, S. Bud’ko, N. Ni, A. Kreyssig, A. Goldman, R. McQueeney, M.
Torikachvili, D. Argyriou, G. Luke, and W. Yu, Physica C **469**, 404
(2009). * [9] C. Huhru, W. Schlabitz, A. Wurth, A. Mewis, and M.
Reehuis, Phys. Rev. B **56**, 13796 (1997). * [10] M. Chefki, M. M.
Abd-Elmeguid, H. Micklitz, C. Huhnt, W. Schlabitz, M. Reehuis, and W.
Jeitschko, Phys. Rev. Lett. **80**, 802 (1998). * [11] S. Jia, A. J.
Williams, P. W. Stephens, and R. J. Cava, Phys. Rev. B **80**, 165107
(2009). * [12] S. Jia, S. Chi, J. W. Lynn, and R. J. Cava, Phys. Rev. B
**81**, 214446 (2010). * [13] S. Jia and R. J. Cava, Phys. Rev. B
**82**, 180410(R) (2010). * [14] S. Jia, P. Jiramsokheli, M. R.
Suchomel, B. H. Toby, J. G. Checkelsky, N. P. Ong, and R. J. Cava, Nat.
Phys. **7**, 207 (2011). * [15] K. Kovnir, W. M. Reiff, A. P.
Menushenkov, A. A. Yaroslavtsev, R. V. Chernikov, and M. Shatruk, Chem.
Mater. **23**, 3021 (2011). * [16] K. Kovnir, V. O. Garlea, C. M.
Thompson, H. D. Zhou, W. M. Reiff, A. Ozarowski, and M. Shatruk, Inorg.
Chem. **50**, 10274 (2011). * [17] T. Mine, M. Yanagi, T. Kamiya, Y.
Kamihara, M. Hirano, and H. Hosono, Solid State Commun. **147**, 111
(2008). * [18] Y. Tomioka, S. Ishida, M. Nakajima, T. Ito, H. Kito, A.
Iyo, H. Eisaki, and S. Uchida, Phys. Rev. B **79**, 132506 (2009). *
[19] V. Hlukhyy, A. Senyshyn, D. Trots, and T. F. Fassler, HASYLAB
Annual Report 2007 (HASYLAB, Hamburg, 2007), Part 1, p. 1021. * [20] R.
Rodriguez-Carvajal, Physica B **192**, 55 (1993). * [21] R. J. Goetsch,
V. K. Anand, A. Pandey, and D. C. Johnston, Phys. Rev. B **85**, 054517
(2012). * [22] J. C. Slater, J. Chem. Phys. **41**, 3199 (1964). * [23]
V. Keimes, D. Johrendt, A. Mewis, C. Huhnt, and W. Schlabitz, Anorg.
Allg. Chem. **23**, 1699 (1997). * [24] J. J. Yang, Y. J. Choi, Y. S.
Oh, A. Hogan, Y. Horibe, K. Kim, B. I. Min, and S-W. Cheong, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **108**, 116402 (2012).

* (25) S. Pyon, K. Kudo, and M. Nohara, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **81**,
053701 (2012). * (26) T. Terashima, M. Kimata, H. Satsukawa, A. Harada,
K. Hazama, M. Imai, S. Uji, H. Kito, A. Iyo, H. Eisaki, and H. Harima,
J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **78**, 033706 (2009). * (27) I. R. Shein and A. L.
Ivanovskii, Phys. Rev. B **79**, 054510 (2009). * (28) Y. Akahama, M.
Kobayashi, and H. Kawamura, Solid State Commun. **84**, 803 (1992). *
(29) F. Mauri, O. Zakharov, S. de Gironcoli, S. G. Louie, and M. L.
Cohen, Phys. Rev. Lett. **77**, 1151 (1996). * (30) K. Kudo, M.
Takasuga, Y. Okamoto, Z. Hiroi, and M. Nohara, Phys. Rev. Lett. **109**,
097002 (2012).
