# Pressure-induced superconductivity in high-pressure phases of Si

T. H. Lin, W. Y. Dong, K. J. Dunn, C. N. J. Wagner

Department of Materials Science and Engineering, School of Engineering
and Applied Science, University of California, Los Angeles, California
90024

F. P. Bundy

Corporate Research and Development, General Electric Company,
Schenectady, New York 12301

28 January 1986

###### Abstract

The electrical behavior of Si was studied for pressures up to 43 GPa and
temperatures down to 2 K using a sintered-diamond-compact anvil
cryogenic clamp press. Two types of samples, amorphous thin-film Si and
semiconductor-quality crystalline Si, were used. The superconducting
transition temperatures $T_{\rm c}$ for high-pressure phases of the
amorphous Si are about 3 K higher than those of the cystalline Si. The
$T_{\rm c}$ decreases monotonically for pressures higher than 25 GPa. No
upturn in $T_{\rm c}$ around 25 GPa as predicted theoretically for the
simple-hexagonal phase was observed.

Recently, there have been many investigations on the structural phase
transitions in Si under high pressure and the superconductivity in these
high-pressure phases. The superconductivity in high-pressure metallic Si
was reported by Wittig,11 Tina and Iksevich,2 Bundy and Dunn,3 and
recently Chang _et al._4 Until the x-ray diffraction work by Olijnyk,
Sikka, and Holzaepfel3 and Hu and Spain6 in which additional sh (simple
hexagonal) and hcp high-pressure Si phases were found, Si was thought to
transform simply from diamond cubic to β-Sn structure. This led to the
_ab initio_ psuedopotential calculation by Chang and Cohen7 which
predicted a pressure-induced phase-transition sequence of diamond cubic
 → β-Sn → hcp for Si, and later, the theoretical prediction and
experimental confirmation of superconductivity in Si by Chang _et al._4
Subsequent work by Dacorogna, Chang, and Cohen8 predicted that the
critical temperature $T_{\rm c}$ for sh Si would reach a minimum around
25 GPa and rise to above 10 K before tranforming to the hcp phase. Here,
we report our measurements of the electrical resistance of Si for
pressure up to 43 GPa and temperatures down to 2 K. We found that
$T_{\rm c}$ decreases monotonically for pressures higher than 25 up to
43 GPa. No upturn in $T_{\rm c}$ was found.

The pressure equipment used in this investigation is the cryogenic
clamp-type sintered-diamond-compact anvil apparatus. The experimental
procedure and pressure elution into have been described elsewhere,9-11
Two types of samples were used, i.e., amorphous and crystalline Si. An
amorphous Si thin film of about 1 μm thick was sputtered on a
10-μm-thick mica sheet. Two rectangular strips of this mica sheet of
approximately 0.13 × 0.6 mm² were cut. They were placed in the
high-pressure cell with the Si-coated side facing each other and a gold
electrode at each sandwiched in between the strips. Because the
sintered-diamond compacts are not good electrical conductors, two
0.05-mm-diameter tungsten wires connecting the gold electrode and the
carbide part of the piston were used. The resistance of the sample was
monitored by sending through an exciting current of 100 μA and measuring
the voltage drop across the pistons. In the case of crystalline-type Si,
a semiconductor ρ-type Si single crystal12 with acceptor concentration
of 10¹³ cm⁻¹ was crushed between two carbide pistons to form fine
powder. The powder was carefully transferred into the high-pressure cell
to form a thin line between the two electrodes. An exciting current of 1
mA was used in this case.

The sample was loaded in the clamp press and the pressure was increased
by steps at room temperature. Then the temperature was lowered by
successive cycles down to 2 K. The resistance of the sample was
monitored during the slow warm up. It was averaged with the exciting
current in both forward and reverse directions to remove any thermal
emf. The clamp press, designed to be temperature compensated, gives
nearly constant cell pressure during a temperature cycle. The
uncertainty in pressure scale is estimated to be ± 2 GPa. The error in
$T_{\rm c}$ due to thermal gradient in the apparatus is less than 0.1 K.
Results for the amorphous and the crystalline Si are shown in Figs. 1
and 2. The error bar in $T_{\rm c}$ indicates the onset and completion
of the resistance drop. The $T_{\rm c}$ is chosen at the midpoint of the
resistance drop. For amorphous Si, the $T_{\rm c}$ of β-Sn phase is
about 6.8 K and is relatively independent of pressure. The $T_{\rm c}$
of sh phase increases from 7.6 K at 15 GPa to a maximum around 8.4 K at
about 21 GPa, then decreases monotonically up to 38 GPa. It is not clear
whether the slight dip in $T_{\rm c}$ at 25 GPa was due to the
increasingly dominant contribution to λ of the transverse acoustic mode
as predicted by Dacorogna _et al._4 or just due to the experimental
uncertainty. For crystalline Si, the $T_{\rm c}$ of β-Sn phase is about
3.9 K. The $T_{\rm c}$ of sh phase increases from 5 K at 15 GPa to a
maximum of 5.2 K at 17 GPa, then decreases monotonically to 4.1 K at
about 43 GPa. Transformation to hcp phase perhaps occurred at around 35
GPa as will be discussed later. But no change in the general decreasing
trend in $T_{\rm c}$ was observed at that pressure. Notice that the
$T_{\rm c}$ of high-pressure phases of amorphous Si is about 3 K higher
than those of the corresponding phases of crystalline Si. Our measured
value $dT_{\rm c}/dP$ of sh phase of Si is about − 53 mK/GPa for
amorphous Si, and about −44 mK/GPa for crystalline Si. Both of them are
much more moderate than that measured by Chang and co-workers.4 In the
measurements by Chang and co-workers,4 the $T_{\rm c}$ of the β-Sn phase
is about 6.3 K at 12 GPa. Above 13.5 GPa, the β-Sn transforms to sh
phase. The $T_{\rm c}$ of sh phase increases to a maximum of 8.2 K at 15
GPa and then decreases monotoni cally to 3.6 K at 25 GPa, with a
dT_(c)/dP of −520 mK/GPa. The cause of this large difference in
dT_(c)/dP between their results and our work is probably due to the fact
that their samples were single crystals, whereas ours were powder and
amorphous thin film.

Judging from the T_(c) behavior, we have assumed here that the
high-pressure phases of amorphous Si are the same as those of
crystalline Si. This assumption remains to be proved. In the experiments
for crystalline Si, if we cross plot the resistance of Si of the
isobaric runs at certain constant temperatures, we obtain the
"synthesized" isothermal curves as shown in Fig. 3. The large dR/dP
slope change at around 35 GPa indicates that Si is at a different phase
for pressures from 35 to 43 GPa. The region between the two smaller
arrows as shown in Fig. 3 corresponds to the sh phase of Si. This
observation is consistent with the x-ray diffraction work by Olijnyk _et
al._[5] which indicates that Si transforms from β-Sn phase to sh phase
at 16 GPa, to an intermediate phase (Si-VI) at 35 GPa, and to hcp phase
(Si-VII) at 40 GPa. The "synthesized" isothermal curves for amorphous
Si, also shown in Fig. 3, indicate a monotonically decreasing behavior
of resistance versus pressure

Figure 1: Resistance vs temperature of Si at various pressures with
starting sample material being (a) crystalline, (b) amorphous.

Figure 2: T_(c) of Si as a function of pressure with starting-sample
material being (a) crystalline, (b) amorphous Si.

which is different from that of crystalline Si. The reason why they are
different is not clearly understood.

Dacorogna _et al._[8] predicted that the electron-phonon couplings for
both longitudinal and transverse modes are not substantially affected by
the phase transition from sh to hcp. Our observation of the T_(e)
behavior near 35 GPa for both amorphous and crystalline Si appears to be
in agreement with such a prediction. On the other hand, only the
experiments with amorphous Si show a slight dip in T_(e) versus pressure
near 25 GPa. It is not clear whether the observation of such a
phenomenon of the competing contributions from the longitudinal and
transverse modes in sh Si has to do with the sample size and/or its
preparation. Perhaps the upturn in T_(e) in sh Si is not prominent as
predicted due to the approximations made in the theoretical calculation,
hence making it difficult to observe experimentally.

The authors wish to thank Professor O. L. Anderson for letting us use
his laboratory, and Professor B. Dunn for his involvement in the
project. This work is supported by the National Science Foundation
through Grant No. DMR-82-17613.

## References

* [1] Permanent address: Chevron Oil Field Research Company, P.O. Box
446, LaHabra, CA 90631. * [2] J. Wittig, Z. Phys. **195**, 215 (1966). *
[3] M. A. Il’ina and E. S. Itskevich, Fiz. Tverd. Tela (Leningrad)
**22**, 3139 (1980) 1500. Phys. Solid State **22**, 1833 (1980). * [4]
F. P. Bundy and K. J. Dunn, in _High Pressure Science and Technology_,
edited by B. Vodar and Ph. Marteau (Pergamon, New York, 1980), p. 461. *
[5] K. J. Chang, M. M. Dacorogna, M. L. Cohen, J. M. Mignot, G.
Chouteau, and G. Martinez, Phys. Rev. Lett. **54**, 2375 (1985). * [6]
H. Olujnyk, S. K. Sikka, and W. B. Holzapfel, Phys. Lett. **103A**, 137
(1984). * [7] J. Z. Hu and I. L. Spain, Solid State Commun. **51**, 263
(1984). * [8] K. J. Chang and M. L. Cohen, Phys. Rev. B **30**, 5376
(1984). * [9] M. M. Dacorogna, K. J. Chang, and M. L. Cohen, Phys. Rev.
B **32**, 1853 (1985). * [10] P. P. Bundy and K. J. Dunn, Rev. Sci.
Instrum. **51**, 753 (1980). * [11] K. J. Dunn and F. P. Bundy, Rev.
Sci. Instrum. **49**, 365 (1978). * [12] T. H. Lin and K. J. Dunn, Phys.
Rev. B **33**, 807 (1986). * [13] Courtesy of Professor K. L. Wang of
the University of California at Los Angeles.

Figure 3: “Synthesized” isothermal curves of R vs P for Si.
