# Thermopower of high-T_(c) cuprates

Mu-Yong Choi and J. S. Kim

Department of Physics, Sungkyunkwan University, Suwon 440-746, Korea

5 November 1997; revised manuscript received 10 September 1998

###### Abstract

We have studied the thermopower of La₂CuO_(4 + z) and Nd₂CuO_(4 − y)
which undergo an antiferromagnetic transition near room temperature and
Bi₂Sr_(2 − x)La_(x)CuO_(6 + z) for which a broad spectrum of doping is
possible. The thermopower of La₂CuO_(4 + z) and Nd₂CuO_(4 − y) is seen
to exhibit an anomaly at the Neel temperature, whereas the resistivity
is not. The extrapolated zero-temperature intercept of the thermopower,
which is known to be positive for hole-doped cuprate superconductors, is
found to become negative for Bi₂Sr_(2 − x)La_(x)CuO_(6 + z) above some
critical doping level. The data strongly suggest that the thermopower of
high-T_(c) cuprates contains a large amount of extra contribution in
addition to the usual diffusion thermopower. We discuss origins of the
extra contribution in the thermopower. [S0163-1829(99)03701-7]

The nature of the normal state of the high-T_(c) cuprate superconductors
(HTSC’s) has remained a key issue since their discovery. The normal
state exhibits a variety of anomalous electronic properties. The
thermopower is one of several physical quantities which distinctly
reveal the unusual normal-state properties. The ab-plane thermopower of
hole-doped HTSC’s exhibits simple but unusual dependences on temperature
and on the doping level.[1, 2, 3] At high temperatures, the thermopower
S varies linearly in temperature T with a negative slope and a positive
zero offset (extrapolated zero-temperature intercept). The negative
slope depends weakly on the doping level, while the zero offset varies
from a large positive value at low doping level to near zero in the
overdoped region. The dependence of S on temperature and the doping
level is so systematic and universal that it can be used as a measure of
the hole concentration in the CuO₂ planes for any hole-doped HTSC.[1]
Recent theoretical work[4] shows, based on the conventional Fermi-liquid
model,[5] that the doping-level dependence of the thermopower can be
explained by the common band-dispersion-relation of HTSC’s. However
there does not yet exist a plausible explanation for the unusual
temperature dependence of S, which is not easily reconciled with a
conventional model based on the usual phonon-drag contribution and/or a
multibanded electronic structure. The observed simplicity and
universality in S seems to indicate that the electronic structure is
simple and common to all kinds of HTSC’s. Thermopower measurements on
semiconducting and heavily overdoped samples, S of which has not been
studied in detail yet, may provide valuable information for
understanding the unusual T dependence of S.

The present paper reports an investigation of S of La₂CuO_(4 + z) and
Nd₂CuO_(4 − y) which are semiconducting and undergo an antiferromagnetic
(AFM) transition below room temperature and
Bi₂Sr_(2 − x)La_(x)CuO_(6 + z) which enables the normal-state properties
in the heavily overdoped region to be studied down to below 20 K.

The conventional solid-state reaction of stoichiometric oxides and
carbonates was adopted in preparing polycrystalline samples of
La₂CuO_(4 + z), Nd₂CuO_(4 − y), and Bi₂Sr_(2 − x)La_(x)CuO_(6 + z). The
x-ray-diffraction analysis shows all the samples to be single phase
within the experimental error. S was measured by employing the dc method
described in Ref. 6. S of the polycrystalline samples represents
essentially the ab-plane value due to the relatively high conductivity
in the CuO₂ planes as compared to that along the c axis. The resistivity
was measured through the low-frequency ac four-probe method.

Figure 1 shows the temperature dependence of S for semiconducting
La₂CuO_(4 + z) (LCO) and Nd₂CuO_(4 − y) (NCO). Both samples show a
distinct drop of |S| at ∼ 150 K for LCO and at ∼ 260 K for NCO. The
anomaly in S is associated with the AFM transition.[7, 8, 9] The onset
of S drop for LCO was reported to appear at the same temperature where a
sharp peak in the magnetic susceptibility appears.[10] The onset
temperature of S drop for NCO as well coincides with the Neel
temperature T_(N) in Ref. 11. The change of S in association with the
AFM transition is as large as ∼ 50

Figure 1: Temperature dependence of the thermopower for La₂CuO_(4 + z)
and Nd₂CuO_(4 − y).

shown in Fig. 2. The absence of an anomaly at T_(N) in the resistivity
has been observed in many different experiments on LCO and NCO
samples.[12, 13, 14, 15] In the relaxation-time approximation, the
diffusion contribution S_(d) in S is related to the density of states,
the velocity and the relaxation time of conduction electrons, and so is
the resistivity ρ in a similar way.[5] Therefore, when S_(d) shows an
anomaly at T_(N), ρ is also expected to show a similar anomaly at the
same temperature, as appears in transition metals.[5] The absence of an
anomaly at T_(N) in ρ of our samples strongly suggests that the observed
large change in S might not be of S_(d) but of an extra contribution,
either the excitation-drag thermopower or something else which is
reduced in the association of the AFM ordering.

Figure 3 shows (a) S vs T of Bi₂Sr_(2 − x)La_(x)CuO_(6 + z) with
0.1≤x≤0.9 and (b) the dependence on the La content x of the zero-offset
S_(o) and the superconducting-transition temperature T_(c) . The
temperature and doping dependence of S for the samples with x>0.4 are
typical of HTSC’s; linear in T with a negative slope and a positive
S_(o) . The zero-offset S_(o) having a large positive value at large x
falls to zero at x≈ 0.4. Lowering x further below 0.4 (raising the hole
concentration above 0.28), S_(o) becomes _negative_. The hole
concentration of the sample of x = 0.4 is determined from the S(290 K)
value and its correlation with the hole concentration in Ref. [1]. Band
calculations[16, 17, 18] and photoemission experiments[19] show that a
HTSC has an approximately cylindrical Fermi surface for electrons in the
CuO₂ planes. An ordinary metal with such a simple band is expected to
have S_(d) linear in T. Someone might argue that a HTSC is not an
ordinary metal and the positive S_(o) might originate from
unconventional Fermi-liquid-likeness of the HTSC. The observed
development of negative S_(o) in the heavily overdoped region where a
HTSC behaves more like an ordinary metal, however, seems to indicate
that the nonzero S_(o) is from some extra contribution in S rather than
unusual S_(d) .

Superconductivity has its origin at attractive electron-electron
interactions which are mediated by some excitations interacting with
electrons. The stronger interaction between the electron and the
excitation generally induces the higher superconducting-transition
temperature. Thus it would be never surprising for HTSC’s to show a
large excitation-drag thermopower, revealing the presence of strong
interactions between electron and excitations. The most ordinary
excitation which drags electrons is phonon. Several authors have tried
to explain S of the HTSC in terms of phonon drag. Early arguments,
however, had some difficulty in explaining the unusual linear T
dependence of S which persists up to 600 K.[20, 21] Recently Trodahl[22]
has shown that inclusion of phonon drag and a cylindrical Fermi surface
can explain the unusual T dependence within a conventional Fermi-liquid
theory. In the picture, the observed thermopower is a sum of a negative
S_(d) varying linearly in T and a positive phonondrag thermopower S_(g)
varying little in T above 100 K. The zero-offset S_(o) is simply the
saturation value of S_(g) . The observed correlation between S_(o) and
the doping level is attributed to competition between two contributions
with opposite sign in S_(g) ; positive for the contribution from the
Umklapp processes of electron-phonon scattering and negative for that
from the normal processes. The competition between the two contributions
is settled by the contour of the Fermi surface which varies with the
doping. As the hole doping is enhanced, the cylindrical hole-like
Fermi-surface of the HTSC’s expands out and consequently the positive
S_(o) at low doping levels decreases and becomes zero at some critical
doping level. Extending the argument above the critical

Figure 3: (a) Temperature dependence of the thermopower of
Bi₂Sr_(2 − x)La_(x)CuO_(6 + z). The numbers near the curves denote the
lanthanum concentration x. The magnitude of the thermopower of the
sample with x=0.9 is scaled down. (b) Shows the La-concentration
dependence of the zero-offset thermopower S_(o) (solid squares) and the
superconducting-transition temperature T_(c) (open squares).

Figure 2: Temperature dependence of the resistivity ρ for La₂CuO_(4 + z)
and Nd₂CuO_(4 − y) polycrystalline samples.

level, one might expect that the Fermi surface ultimately turns
electronlike and S_(a) becomes negative. This expectation appears to
agree qualitatively with our observations.

Nevertheless we note that the phonon is not the only excitation which
can generate a drag thermopower and that the Trodahl’s argument is not
limited only for phonon drag. It can be extended to other excitations
interacting with conduction electrons, such as a magnon. It is not even
certain for high-T_(c) cuprates whether phonons interact so vigorously
with electrons. It is well known for high-T_(c) cuprates that strong
electron-electron interactions induce large AFM spin fluctuations in
both semiconducting and superconducting samples. Many physicists now
believe that a strong interaction between the electron and the spin
fluctuations (quantum of which is paramagnon) is responsible for the
high-T_(c) superconductivity. Therefore it could be a hasty conclusion
to claim without extra evidence that the phonon is the excitation.

We now examine the correlation between excitation drag and the observed
S change below T_(N) in the semiconducting samples, even if similar
effects do not have to work on both semiconducting and superconducting
samples. Phonon-drag thermopower does not appear to fit in well with the
observation. When a phonon is the dominant excitation interacting with
electrons, S_(g) is not expected to change substantially in association
with the AFM transition. It is because the electron-phonon scattering
rate is not significantly affected by the antiferromagnetic
electron-spin-ordering transition. Unlike for phonons, AFM ordering
suppresses spin fluctuations and thus paramagnon-drag thermopower is
reduced below T_(N). The S charge in Fig. 1 is quite similar to that
observed in MnTe [23], which has been attributed to the paramagnon-drag
effect. Nevertheless, it is not easy to explain why strong
electron-paramagnon interaction effects would come out vividly only in
S, but not in ρ. The absence of strong T dependence of S above T_(N)
associated with critical slowing down is another question to be answered
for admission of paramagnon-drag thermopower in the semiconducting
samples.

Charge carriers in semiconducting high-T_(c) cuprates are known to be
both strongly correlated and severely localized. S_(d) in such a system
may have, in addition to the usual energy-transport term, a spin-entropy
term which may reach to several hundred μV/K [24]. Liu and Emin [25]
have shown that magnetic ordering reduces the spin-entropy part so
effectively because the exchange interaction between the carrier and the
magnetic sites limits the energetically allowable spin configurations.
The spin-entropy part can be easily reduced in the presence of a large
applied magnetic field as well. The presence of a sizable spin-entropy
part in S thus can be ascertained from the measurement of
magnetothermopower. Early measurements [26, 27] expose that S of
superconducting samples is almost independent of a magnetic field up to
30 T. Magnetothermopower data for semiconducting samples have not been
provided yet.

In summary, we have studied S of La₂CuO_(4+_(c)), Nd₂CuO_(4−_(g)), and
Bi₂Sr_(2−_(x))La_(x)CuO_(6+_(x)). For La₂CuO_(4+_(c)) and
Nd₂CuO_(4−_(g)), S shows an anomaly at T_(N), whereas ρ does not. For
Bi₂Sr_(2−_(x))La_(x)CuO_(6+_(x)), the zero-offset S_(o) is found to
become negative above some critical doping level. The development of
negative S_(o) in the overdoped region looks qualitatively compatible
with the excitation-drag argument for a system with a cylindrical Fermi
surface. For the origin of the anomalous change in S below T_(N),
paramagnon-drag and spin-entropy contributions have been considered. We
suggest magnetothermopower measurements for a probe of the spin-entropy
part in S of semiconducting samples.

We are grateful to K. C. Cho and K. H. Lim for their assistance in a
part of the experiments.

## References

* [1] S. D. Obertelli, J. R. Cooper, and J. L. Tallon, Phys. Rev. B
**46**, 14 928 (1992). * [2] C. R. Varoy, H. J. Trodahl, R. G. Buckley,
and A. B. Kaiser, Phys. Rev. B **46**, 463 (1992). * [3] For a review,
see A. B. Kaiser and C. Uher, in _Studies of High Temperature
Superconductors_, edited by A. V. Narlikar (Nova, New York, 1991), Vol.
7. * [4] Yoshimi Kubo, Phys. Rev. B **50**, 3181 (1994). * [5] See, for
example, F. J. Blatt, P. A. Schroeder, and C. L. Foiles, _Thermoelectric
Power of Metals_ (Plenum, New York, 1976). * [6] W. N. Kang, K. C. Cho,
Y. M. Kim, and Mu-Yong Choi, Phys. Rev. B **39**, 2763 (1989). * [7] For
a review, see R. J. Birgeneau and G. Shirane, in _Physical Properties of
High Temperature Superconductors II_, edited by D. M. Ginsberg (World
Scientific, Singapore, 1990). * [8] C. L. Seaman _et al._, Physica C
**159**, 391 (1989). * [9] A. Butera, A. Caneiro, M. T. Causa, L. B.
Stern, R. Zysler, M. Tovar, and S. B. Oseroff, Physica C **160**, 341
(1989). * [10] S. W. Cheong, M. F. Hundley, J. D. Thompson, and Z. Fisk,
Phys. Rev. B **39**, 6567 (1989). * [11] C. C. Almasan and M. B. Maple,
in _Chemistry of High Temperature Superconductors_, edited by C. N. R.
Rao (World Scientific, Singapore, 1991). * [12] N. W. Preyer _et al._,
Phys. Rev. B **39**, 11 563 (1989). * [13] M. A. Kastner _et al._, Phys.
Rev. B **37**, 111 (1988). * [14] K. Hirochi _et al._, Physica C
**160**, 273 (1989). * [15] X.-Q. Xu, S. J. Hagen, W. Jiang, J. L. Peng,
Z. Y. Li, and R. L. Greene, Phys. Rev. B **45**, 7356 (1992). * [16] J.
Yu, S. Massida, and A. J. Freeman, Physica C **152**, 273 (1988). * [17]
R. S. Markiewicz, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter **1**, 8911 (1985). * [18]
For a review, see W. E. Pickett, Rev. Mod. Phys. **61**, 433 (1989). *
[19] D. S. Marshall _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **76**, 4841 (1996). *
[20] V. E. Gasumyants _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **53**, 905 (1996). * [21]
T. Ohtani and K. Ohkuma, Solid State Commun. **72**, 767 (1989). * [22]
H. J. Trodahl, Phys. Rev. B **51**, 6175 (1995). * [23] J. D. Wasscher
and C. Haas, Phys. Lett. **8**, 302 (1964). * [24] P. M. Chaikin and G.
Beni, Phys. Rev. B **13**, 647 (1976). * [25] N-L. H. Liu and D. Emin,
Phys. Rev. B **30**, 3250 (1984). * [26] R. C. Yu _et al._, Phys. Rev. B
**37**, 7963 (1988). * [27] W. Jiang, X. Q. Xu, S. J. Hagen, J. L. Peng,
Z. Y. Li, and R. L. Greene, Phys. Rev. B **48**, 657 (1993).
