# Far-infrared transmission of superconducting homogeneous NbN films:

Scattering time effects

D. Karecki, R. E. Pena, and S. Perkowitz

Department of Physics, Emory University, Atlanta, Georgia 30322

10 August 1981

###### Abstract

The transmission of superconducting homogeneous NbN films has been
measured between 20 and 95 cm⁻¹. The results could be fitted with the
Leplae extension of dirty-limit Mattis-Bardeen theory, which includes
the effects of electronic scattering. The fits yield 2D/_kBT_(e)_=4.4
and 4.1 for _T_(e)_’s of 17 and 14 K, and scattering times of
(1-5)x10-14 sec. These values are in substantial agreement with other
determinations. The results, together with theoretical considerations
and analysis of previous data in Pb, show that the Leplae approach
simply describes optical behavior even in very strongly coupled
materials. A refined description, however, probably requires
consideration of both scattering and strong-coupling effects.

## I Introduction

Research in both homogeneous and granular superconducting films touches
on several areas of current importance. In superconductivity itself,
even the simpler homogeneous films provide new systems in which to
examine basic ideas and to search for high _T_(e)_’s. In them also it is
possible to observe the scaling and universality associated with
critical phenomena and to probe lowered dimensionality. When the films
become granular there is additional potential to examine percolation
behavior and the theory of inhomogeneous media, and new flexibility to
tailor materials for applications. Two recent conference proceedings
illustrate the complex interplay among these areas.[1, 2]

NbN is a high-_T_(e)_ (17 K) strong-coupling superconductor which can be
made in films ranging from homogeneous to highly granular. Comprehensive
dc measurements have shown a variety of interesting behavior related to
many of the areas mentioned above.[3, 4, 5] In this paper we present a
detailed optical analysis of homogeneous NbN films with thicknesses
between 20 and 100 nm. We measure the ratio of superconducting - to -
normal-state transmission _T_(s)/T_(n)_ over the range 20 to 95 cm⁻¹. As
previous work in V3Si has shown[6, 7] such far-infrared measurements
give substantial insight into the superconducting behavior of the films.
These measurements also provide a firm foundation for our projected
far-infrared work in granular NbN which may help unravel the
difficulties encountered in the few optical experiments made to date in
granular superconductors.[8, 9]

Our analysis of the homogeneous NbN films uses the same methods that
were successful in V3Si,[6] where the simple dirty-limit Mattis-Bardeen
(MB) result[10] was inadequate to fit the data. Such a result is
expected because V3Si is a strong-coupling superconductor, but what was
unexpected was the fact that it was not necessary to use the full
strong-coupling theory of Nam and others. Instead the successful fit
used an expanded version of MB theory, the Leplae formulation,[11] which
takes into account the finite value of the electronic scattering time τ.

The measurements and analysis reported here bear directly on the
properties of homogeneous and granular NbN. We also discuss the more
general question of the justification of the Leplae approach, and
compare the magnitude of scattering and strong-coupling effects in
far-infrared analysis.

## II Theory

The far-infrared response of superconductors near gap frequencies
(ℏω_(g) = 2D) constitutes a sensitive probe of the underlying
microscopic mechanisms for superconductivity.[12, 13] Early far-infrared
work on superconductors culminated in a well-known study by Palmer and
Tinkham.[14] Their transmission and reflection data on superconducting
Pb implied a significant deviation of its complex conductivity function
σ₁^(s)(ω) + iσ₂^(s)(ω) from that predicted by MB (Ref. 10) for a
Bardeen-Cooper-Schrieffer (BCS) superconductor. In work which
unfortunately was not published, Nam reportedly[14] explained the
deviations as arising from strong-coupling effects. This result was
obtained from his theory on the electromagnetic properties of
strong-coupling superconductors.[15] In consequence, a considerable
fraction of the subsequent theoretical and experimental work in this
field has involved the theory of strong-coupling
superconductivity.[16]⁻[23]

The strong-coupling effects which are the focus of these works fall into
two categories. The first consists of structure in the real part of the
conductivity σ₁^(s)(ω) deviating from the MB result at frequencies near
ω_(g). For pure metals in the anomalous limit these deviations represent
a few percent effect and are difficult to observe. The second category
consists of effects which increase the area
∫_(ω_(g))^(ω_(D))dω σ₁^(s)(ω). As the Debye frequency ω_(D) is much
larger than ω_(g), these integral effects are best studied in the
low-frequency behavior of the imaginary part of the conductivity
σ₂^(s)(ω) ∼ 2A/πω, where A is the sum-rule-determined strength[13, 24,
25] of the zero-frequency pole of σ₁^(s). Far-infrared measurements are,
in principle, a sensitive probe of both kinds of effects, but as we will
see it is essential to consider scattering behavior as well.

As a framework within which to interpret the optical properties of an
ever growing number of new superconducting materials, the
strong-coupling theories suffer two major drawbacks. First, they require
accurate knowledge of the frequency-dependent complex gap function
Δ₁(ω) + iΔ₂(ω) which replaces the single gap parameter Δ of the BCS
(Ref. 26) theory. This requires a preliminary set of tunneling
measurements or other experiments. Second, at present detailed
calculations have been done for the extreme anomalous and extreme local
limits only. These limits are often inapplicable to the materials of
current interest.

An approach which avoids these difficulties and yet begins to describe
strong-coupling materials has been developed by Leplae[11] and used with
good results by a few authors.[6, 27, 28] It is surprising that Leplae’s
method has received such little attention, especially in view of the
limitations to the complete strong-coupling treatment. In Leplae’s
development σ₁^(s) (at T = 0) is given by

$$\sigma_{1}^{s}(\omega,q)\!=\!\frac{1}{2\pi\omega_{0}}\int_{\Delta}^{\pi\omega- \Delta}dE\{\,[\,g(E,E^{\prime})\!-\!1]\sigma_{1}^{s}\{\,|\,\epsilon^{\prime}\,| \,-\,|\,\epsilon\,|\,,q\}\!+\![g(E,E^{\prime})\!+\!1]\sigma_{1}^{n}\{\,|\, \epsilon^{\prime}\,|\,+\,|\,\epsilon\,|\,,q\}\,\}\ ,$$
(1)

where

$$\begin{array}{l}g(E,E^{\prime})\!=\!(EE^{\prime}\!-\!\Delta^{2})/\,|\  by strong-coupling effects[29] yet whose superconductivity is not. There is also evidence that at least in some appropriate limit the Leplae and Nam approaches give the same result, despite their conceptual differences. Our calculations show that both theories yield identical results for the sum rule strength \(A\) over the range 0.05 < _o_g_T < 10 which includes all the previous V3Si data and the NbN results presented here.

To show even more clearly that the Leplae method can successfully fit data for a very strongly coupled material, we examined Palmer and Tinkham's results for Pb. With the assumption of a Drude form for \(s_{n}\), it was possible to fit the _T__s__/_T__n_ data very nearly as well as Nam did. The fit (shown in the Appendix) required a scattering time of 4.8 x 10-14 sec, a reasonable value for a pure metal film about 0.1 nm thick which is expected to be dominated by surface scattering effects.

There is thus ample evidence that the Leplae approach is a useful one for determining much about the optical properties of strong-coupling superconductors. This method promises a partial theory of the electromagnetic behavior of strong-coupling materials within the BCS framework but without the usual weak-coupling assumption \(l\) = _N_(0)_V_ << 1. That the Leplae method can be used for any value of \(l\) is evident from the Bogoliubov-Valatin approach[30, 31] to superconductivity. There the BCS problem is solved by exact diagonalization of the "model Hamiltonian" requiring no assumption on the strength of the pairing potential \(V_{k}\), between time-reversed single-electron states. Upon diagonalization the usual assumption _V__kk_' - \(V\) is made for a limited energy range about the Fermi surface. The usual self-consistent gap equation is obtained which may be solved for 2D(0) at \(T\) = 0 and for _k__B__T__c_ at \(D\) = 0. If no restriction is placed on the magnitude of \(l\) one obtains

\[\frac{2\Delta(0)}{k_{B}T_{c}} = \frac{3.53}{1 - e^{- 2/\lambda}},\,\,\,\lambda > 0$$

a result infrequently found in print. This equation gives the usual
weak-coupling result 2D(0)/_k__B__T__c_ = 3.53 at small l. For larger l,
2D(0)/_k__B__T__c_ becomes greater than 3.53, a standard indication of
strong-coupling behavior. Hence, in principle, a Leplae analysis of
materials with large values of 2D(0)/_k__B__T__c_ is justified.

## III Experiment

The three samples denoted by A, B, and C were prepared at the Naval
Research Laboratory by reactively sputtering NbN onto sapphire
substrates 0.043-cm thick.[32] Their nominal film thicknesses d are
given in Table I. The sheet resistance R (=1/_s__o_d) of the films was
measured at 300 and 22 K using the standard van der Pauw method. As the
samples were cooled, the resistance of the thickest film changed by less
than 2

  -------------------------------- ------ ------ ------
               Sample                A      B      C
   Experimental parameters d (nm)   100     30     20
           _R_(300 K) (□)           8.0     52     65
           _R_(22 K) (□)            8.0     79     87
              _T_c (K)               17     15     14
           _f_max (cm−1)             58     42     41
         (_T__s_/_T__n_)max         4.4    2.8    2.6
         Derived parameters                      
              2Δ (meV)              6.45   5.00   4.89
          _τ_ (10−14 sec)           4.7    1.2    1.0
               _ω_g_τ               0.46   0.09   0.07
          2Δ/_k__B__T__c_           4.4    3.9    4.1
  -------------------------------- ------ ------ ------

Table 1: Measured and derived parameters for the three NbN samples. All
the quantities are defined in the text, except for _f_max, the frequency
at which the peak value (_T__s_/_T__n_)max occurs. The quoted values of
2Δ are the fit values slightly corrected to 0 K.

The values of the transition temperature T_(e) as determined by this
measurement are given in Table 1 along with the measured values of
R_(▫). All the dc results for R_(▫) and T_(e) (including the high value
T_(e) = 17 K for the thickest sample) were closely confirmed by optical
measurements to be described later.

The samples were pressed between 1-mm-thick indium sheets for good
thermal contact and were mounted on a cold finger. The sample
temperature was monitored by a Si diode sensor. The lowest attainable
sample temperature was 4.5 K. A heater and temperature controller could
maintain steady temperatures above this value.

A Grubb-Parsons Cube Interferometer was used to measure the sample
transmission. Broadband radiation from the Hg arc was focused onto the
4-mm input aperture of the detector using a 7.6-cm-diam. mirror with a
focal length of 20 cm. The sample was mounted in the converging beam 10
cm in front of the detector, a composite Si bolometer operating near 1.7
K. A cooled 100-cm⁻¹ low-pass filter was inserted into the beam in front
of the detector. Stray light as measured by blocking the sample aperture
with an Al sheet was found to be only a few percent of the light
transmitted in the normal state. This spectrometer system is
sufficiently sensitive to measure a transmission of 0.001 (0.1

Double-sided interferograms were taken over a limited range of mirror
travel in order to restrict spectral resolution to 11 cm⁻¹. This
prevented the appearance of interference fringes (channel spectra) from
the sapphire substrates, but it eliminated the possibility of examining
fine structure. Data acquisition and Fourier transformation were carried
out by a dedicated microcomputer.33

Transmission spectra were taken at 4.5 K, well below the critical
temperature for each sample. Upon heating, the transmission through each
sample decreased gradually until it reached a plateau value. The
temperature at which the plateau just began was taken as T_(e). This
agreed with T_(e) from the dc measurements to within 3

It was useful to separately measure T_(n). To accomplish this the
intensity transmitted through the sample at 22 K was ratioed against the
intensity transmitted through the empty sample aperture. For the
normal-state Drude model T_(n) should be constant or increase with
frequency, depending on the value of τ. The observed T_(n) spectra were
nearly flat but sloped in the wrong direction for explanation by the
Drude model. Heating in the low-pass filter or in the detector due to
the larger input from the reference beam could have been responsible for
this discrepancy. The very-low-frequency results are independent of the
conductivity model, and values of R_(▫) (22 K) found from the
zero-frequency intercept of T_(n) agreed with the dc values to within 3

## IV Analysis and Discussion

The data in Fig. 1 were fitted by means of the Leplae equations (1) -
(4), with σ₁^(π) taken in the local Drude form given by Eq. (5). σ₁^(′)
and σ₂^(′) were calculated by computer as described elsewhere.6 They
were used in turn to calculate T_(s)/T_(n) according to the equation of
Glover and Tinkham,34 which averages over fringes as we did in our exper

Figure 1: Ratio of superconducting − to − normal-state transmission
T_(s)/T_(n) vs frequency for two NbN films on sapphire substrates. The
solid lines are the best fits derived from the Leplae theory, with the
parameter values given in Table 1.

iment. The calculation of transmission requires the sheet resistance,
which we took as a nonadjustable parameter with the measured value _R_D
(22 K). The parameters 2D and t were adjusted to give the best fit to
the data.

It was impossible to make a remotely satisfactory fit for any of the
samples under the dirty-limit assumption t = 0, which gave low values
for _T__s_/_T__n_. This deviation was especially striking for sample A,
where the calculated peak height was only 2.8 as compared to a measured
height of 4.4. The half-widths of the theoretical curves were also too
large. The introduction of a finite t improved the situation
substantially. For samples B and C the fit became excellent, with some
mismatch in the half-width which is more pronounced on the low-frequency
side of the peak. For A it became possible to match the peak height and
the agreement in half-widths improved, but there is a noticeable
departure on both the low- and the high-frequency sides. The
low-frequency deviation may be significant, since it was observed also
in our fits to V3Si and to Palmer and Tinkham’s data for Pb.

The fit results for 2D and t are given in Table I, as are the quantities
o_(g) t and 2D/_k__B__T__c_. The typical uncertainty in the scattering
time is 20

The results show that all the samples are in the strong-coupling regime.
As expected the highest value of 2D/_k__B__T__c_, 4.4+-0.2, occurs for
the highest T_(c), 17 K. Both numbers agree very well with the results
of Saito _et al._,35 who found a maximum T_(c) of 17.3 K and whose data
extrapolated to 17 K yields 2D/_k__B__T__c_ = 4.5. The gap energy for
sample C also agrees within experimental error with the results of Saito
_et al._ at 14 K, while the energy for sample B is a few percent low.

Our values of t reflect impurity scattering and perhaps surface
scattering as well. They decrease with increasing dc resistivity as they
should, and are comparable to values obtained from Leplae fits and an
independent determination in V3Si.6 The scattering times also agree with
values we obtain from the estimated dc resistivities, using the NbN
Fermi velocity of 0.9x108 cm/sec found by Papaconstantopoulos36 from an
augmented-plane-wave (APW) band-structure calculation. They are,
however, considerably larger than the values quoted by Hechler _et
al._37 and Mathur _et al._38 for NbN films of about the same
resistivities as ours. These numbers are derived from a carrier
concentration nearly 100 times larger than the value implied by our
results and those of Papaconstantopoulos. Since our values of t are
direct-fit parameters and involve no band-structure assumptions, they
independently support the APW results. It is also possible, however,
that both scattering and strong-coupling behavior must be invoked to
fully understand our optical data. The inclusion of significant coupling
effects would lower the fit values of t.

## V Conclusions

Our analysis of homogeneous NbN has shown that the Leplae theory does
well in fitting far-infrared data even in a very strongly coupled
material. We obtained the correct gap energy for two of the three
samples, and the very slightly low value for the third sample may
represent a materials problem. Our fit values of t agree with
experimental values for another strong-coupled alloy superconductor and
with a recent APW band-structure calculation. The fit to the thickest,
most conductive sample is not ideal, but the fits to the more resistive
samples are of good quality. The latter begin to be representative of
granular NbN, and the Leplae method appears to provide an excellent
starting point for further optical analysis of the granular system.
Since _R_D, T_(c), 2D, and t can all be found optically without any dc
data, such analysis gives a completely independent way to probe granular
films.

The Leplae theory and Nam’s full strong-coupling approach were almost
equally successful in fitting _T__s_/_T__n_ data, as was illustrated
when both methods gave nearly the same quality of fit for Pb. The Leplae
approach, however, is never quite as satisfactory on the low-frequency
side of the peak. At frequencies below o_(g) the transmission is
determined by s2 (since s1 is zero) and the low-frequency deviations may
represent integral strong-coupling effects. Thus for many alloy
superconductors of current interest a full description of far-infrared
behavior requires consideration of both strong-coupling and scattering
effects. The Leplae theory alone, however, simply describes a large part
of what is observed.

###### Acknowledgements.

The authors wish to thank D. U. Gubser and S. A. Wolf for supplying the
NbN samples and for discussions related to their characterization and
properties. Helpful discussions with B. M. Klein and D. A.
Papaconstantopoulos are gratefully acknowledged. This work was supported
by Department of Energy Contract No. DE-AS05-79ER10436.

## Appendix A Leplae fit to data for Pb

Figure 2 shows the best Leplae fit to Palmer and Tinkham’s T_(π)/T_(π)
data for a Pb film.[14] It was obtained using their experimental values
R_(▫) = 252Ω and ω_(π) = 22.5 cm⁻¹, and yields τ = 4.8 × 10⁻¹⁴ sec
(ω_(π)τ = 0.2). The goodness of the fit is comparable to that
reported[14] for Nam’s unpublished full strong-coupling calculation.
This success suggests that transmission data in strong-coupling thin
films cannot be fully understood without a consideration of scattering.
A finite scattering time can influence the optical response of a
superconductor as much as strong electron-phonon coupling does.

## References

* [1]_Electrical Transport and Optical Properties of Inhomogeneous
Media_, edited by J. C. Garland and D. B. Tanner (American Institute of
Physics, New York, 1978). * [2]_Inhomogeneous Superconductors–1979_,
edited by D. U. Gubser, T. L. Francavilla, J. R. Leibowitz, and S. A.
Wolf (American Institute of Physics, New York, 1980). * [3] S. Wolf and
W. H. Lowrey, Phys. Rev. Lett. 39, 1038 (1977). * [4] D. U. Gubser and
S. A. Wolf, Solid State Commun. 32, 449 (1979). * [5] D. U. Gubser, S.
A. Wolf, T. L. Francavilla, and J. L. Feldman, in Ref. 2, p. 159. * [6]
S. W. McKnight, B. L. Bean, and S. Perkowitz, Phys. Rev. B 19, 1437
(1979). * [7] S. W. McKnight, S. Perkowitz, D. B. Tanner, and L.
Testardi, Phys. Rev. B 19, 5689 (1979). * [8] G. L. Carr, J. C. Garland,
and D. B. Tanner, in Ref. 2, p. 288. * [9] G. L. Carr, J. C. Garland,
and D. B. Tanner, Bull. Am. Phys. Soc. 26, 448 (1981). * [10] D. C.
Mattis and J. Bardeen, Phys. Rev. 111, 412 (1958). * [11] L. Leplae,
Doctoral dissertion, University of Maryland, College Park, 1962
(unpublished). * [12] M. Tinkham, in _Far Infrared Properties of
Solids_, edited by S. S. Mitra and S. Nudelman (Plenum, New York, 1970),
p. 223. * [13] P. Wyder, Infrared Phys. 16, 243 (1976). * [14] L. H.
Palmer and M. Tinkham, Phys. Rev. 165, 588 (1968). * [15] S. B. Nam,
Phys. Rev. 156, 470 (1967); 156, 487 (1967). * [16] W. Shaw and J. C.
Swihart, Phys. Rev. Lett. 20, 1000 (1968). * [17] S. L. Norman, Phys.
Rev. 167, 393 (1968). * [18] J. C. Swihart and W. Shaw, Physica 55, 678
(1971). * [19] R. E. Harris and D. M. Ginsberg, Phys. Rev. 188, 737
(1969). * [20] G. Brandli and A. J. Sievers, Phys. Rev. B 5, 3550
(1972). * [21] D. M. Ginsberg, R. E. Harris, and R. G. Dynes, Phys. Rev.
B 14, 990 (1976). * [22] C. G. C. M. de Kort, J. H. M. Stoelinga, and P.
Wyder, Physica 101B, 1 (1980). * [23] G. B. Arnold and J. C. Swihart,
Solid State Commun. 37, 303 (1981). * [24] R. A. Ferrell and R. E.
Glover, Phys. Rev. 109, 1398 (1958). * [25] M. Tinkham and R. A.
Ferrell, Phys. Rev. Lett. 2, 331 (1959). * [26] J. Bardeen, L. N.
Cooper, and J. R. Schrieffer, Phys. Rev. 108, 1175 (1957). * [27] D. M.
Ginsberg, Phys. Rev. 151, 241 (1966). * [28] D. M. Ginsberg, Phys. Rev.
B 8, 2358 (1973). * [29] H. Scher, Phys. Rev. Lett. 25, 759 (1970);
Phys. Rev. B 3, 3551 (1971). * [30] N. N. Bogoliubov, Nuovo Cimento 7,
794 (1958); Zh. Eksp. Teor. Fiz. 34, 58 (1958) [Sov. Phys.–JETP 7, 41
(1958)]. * [31] J. G. Valatin, Nuovo Cimento 7, 843 (1958).

Figure 2: Experimental values of T_(π)/T_(π) for Pb compared to the best
fit from the Leplae theory. The dashed line is fitted by eye to the data
of Palmer and Tinkham (Ref. 16). See Appendix.

* [32] S. A. Wolf, J. Kennedy, and M. Nisenoth, J. Vac. Sci. Technol.
**13**, 1451 (1976). * [33] R. C. DuVarney and S. Perkowitz, Int. J. IR
Mm. Waves **2**, 587 (1981). * [34] R. E. Glover and M. Tinkham, Phys.
Rev. **108**, 243 (1957). * [35] Y. Saito, T. Anayama, Y. Onodera, T.
Yamashita, K. Komenou, and Y. Muto, in _Proceedings of the 12th
International Conference on Low Temperature Physics, 1970_, edited by E.
Kanda (Academic, Tokyo, Japan, 1971), p. 329. * [36] D. A.
Papaconstantopoulos, in _Physics of Transition Metals, 1980_, edited by
P. Rhodes (Institute of Physics, Bristol, 1981), p. 563, and private
communication. * [37] K. Hechler, G. Horn, G. Otto, and E. Saur, J. Low.
Temp. Phys. **1**, 29 (1969). * [38] M. P. Mathur, D. W. Deis, and J. R.
Gavaler, J. Appl. Phys. **43**, 3158 (1972).
