Magnetic flux dynamics and structural features in fluorinated HgBa₂CuO₄
as probed by ¹⁹F NMR

A. A. Gippius1 and E. N. Morozova

Department of Physics, Moscow State University, 119899 Moscow, Russia

E. V. Antipov, A. M. Abakumov, and M. G. Rozova

Department of Chemistry, Moscow State University, 119899 Moscow, Russia

K. Luders and W. Hoffmann

Department of Physics, Free University of Berlin, D-14195 Berlin,
Germany

G. Buntkowsky and O. Klein

Department of Chemistry, Free University of Berlin, D-14195 Berlin,
Germany

Footnote 1: The ¹⁹F NMR spectra are obtained from the ¹⁹F NMR spectra of
the ${}^{19}

  tra of both HgBa\({}_{2}$CuO₄F_(x) compounds exhibit a single line
without additional peaks and shoulders which yields the additional proof
that our samples contain only the single fluorinated phase. The spectral
linewidths Δ ν at half maximum vs temperature are plotted in Fig. 2.
Both samples show nearly the same Δ ν(T) dependence in the whole
temperature range 10-300 K. Above T_(c) the linewidth is almost
temperature independent: Δ ν≈30 kHz at 100 K and Δ ν≈20 kHz at 300 K
which is close to the values recently obtained by Goren _et al.[5]_ in a
series of YBa₂Cu₃O₅F_(y) compounds. Below T_(c) the spectra exhibit
rapid broadening with decreasing temperature. Such a behavior is
characteristic for NMR spectra in the mixed phase of type-II
superconductors where the line broadening below T_(c) is caused by an
inhomogeneous distribution of the magnetic field in the flux-line
lattice. This result is clear and direct evidence that fluorine atoms
are successfully incorporated in the superconducting matrix of Hg-1201.
The NPD data gave us only indirect support showing twice amount of anion
in the O3 site in comparison with an oxygenated sample with the same
T_(c)[1], but NPD could not distinguish O and F due to their close
scattering lengths. However, combined with the NMR result it reveals
that F is inserted in the O3 position which was almost empty in the
initial reduced Hg-1201 phase and has the occupation number 0.24 in the
sample 2F[1].

The remarkable feature of the observed ¹⁹F linewidth temperature
dependence is the existence of the well pronounced crossover for both
samples at about T_(c)≈35 K. The similar crossover has been observed for
⁸⁹Y and ¹⁹F in YBa₂Cu₄O₅:F[6], ⁸⁹Y in YBa₂Cu₄O₅, ⁸[8], ⁸⁹Y in
YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ)[9], and ¹⁹F in YBa₂Cu₃O₆.F_(0.2)[24], and was
attributed to flux line (FL) motion. Following the simplified approach
developed there (for detailed analysis see Ref. [25]) the free induction
decay (FID) in the presence of random Brownian motion is given by [10]

s(t) = exp {− γ²(Δ B_(FL)²) τ_(c)² ⋅ [ exp (− t/τ_(c)) − 1 + t/τ_(c)]}.
(1)

Here τ_(c) is the characteristic correlation time of FL motion;
⟨Δ B_(FL)²⟩ is the second moment of the magnetic-field distribution in
the rigid FL lattice: ⟨Δ B_(FL)²(T)⟩∼[ Δ ν²(T)− Δ ν²(300)]. To extract
the τ_(c) values the NMR spectra were fitted in Refs. [6, 7, 8, 9] by
the Fourier transform of the expression (1). In order to minimize the
data manipulation errors we used Eq. (1) directly to fit the half echo
intensity decay in the time domain (see the inset in Fig. 1) assuming
the temperature dependence of
$\Delta\,\nu_{\rm FL}(T)$$=\,\Delta\,\nu_{\rm FL}(0)$[1 − (T/T_(c))⁴] as
predicted by the London two-fluid model. The resulting τ_(c) values as a
function of temperature are plotted in the inset of Fig. 2.
Corresponding to the crossover on the linewidth the temperature
dependence τ_(c)(T) also exhibits the clear crossover at T_(cr)=35 K. It
is well known that the B-T phase diagram of the superconducting state in
the high-T_(c) cuprates is rather complicated due to the interplay of
three energies which determine the state of the fluxoid lattice, namely
the elastic energy of the fluxoid lattice (U_(c)), the pinning energy
(U_(p)), and the thermal energy (U_(T)=k_(B)T)[11]. At low temperatures
where U_(T)≈(U_(p),U_(c)) the fluxoids are considered to be in the
latticelike state with the translational order over a certain range. The
thermal energy U_(T) increases with T and reaches U_(p) at temperature
T_(dp), where depinning of the latticelike fluxoids occurs. Finally, at
temperatures above T_(m) , U_(T) exceeds U_(e) + U_(p) and fluxoids are
in the liquid state. For low-T_(c) superconductors with strong flux
pinning such as Nb₃Sn, the depinning line T_(dp)(H) is close to the
melting line T_(m)(H), while for high-T_(c) superconductors T_(dp)(H) is
below T_(m)(H) and coincides with the irreversibility line T_(tr)(H)[11,
12]. Since the NMR linewidth depends on the second moment ⟨Δ B_(FL)²⟩ of
the magnetic-field distribution it is strongly affected by the melting
of the FL lattice but not so much by its depinning. Therefore the
observed crossover at T=35 K on linewidth and correlation time
temperature dependences is related to the melting temperature T_(m).
This temperature is, however, not far above T_(tr) for Hg-1201 which is
about 28−30 K at the magnetic field of our experiment (H= 7 T)[13, 14].

The typical ¹⁹F magnetization recovery curve after saturation sequence
for the sample 1F with the lower fluorine

Figure 1: ¹⁹F NMR spectra of the sample 1F measured at different
temperatures. Inset: example of the fitting of the half echo intensity
decay by Eq. (1) in the sample 2F (see text).

Figure 2: Temperature dependences of ¹⁹F NMR linewidths for the samples
HgBa₂CuO₄F_(x). Inset: correlation time τ_(c) of magnetic FL motion
extracted from half echo decay by fitting to Eq. (1) in the time domain
(see text).

content is presented in Fig. 3(a). As seen from this figure, an attempt
to fit the recovery curve by the single exponential function gives a
systematic deviation from the experimental points. We found that for the
sample 1F in the whole temperature range 10-300 K the echo intensity I
is perfectly described by the stretched exponential dependence:

I = A − B ⋅ exp (−τ/T₁)^(n),
(2)

where T₁ is the spin-lattice relaxation time; τ is the time delay
between the saturation sequence and the spin-echo sequence. The values
of the parameter n were close to 0.5 varying in the narrow range of
0.45-0.57 for all temperature points. In order to avoid an additional
degree of freedom in the T₁ determination we fixed the value n = 0.5 in
the fitting procedure. The stretched exponential function (2) with n =
0.5 is a particular case of Kohlrausch’s anomalous relaxation law
I ∼ exp [−(t/τ)^(β)] (0 < β < 1) and is widely used in the description
of relaxation processes in disordered systems like glasses (see Refs.
[15] and [16], for instance). Recently, the stretched exponential
recovery has been observed for the copper quadrupole relaxation in
Sr₁₄Cu₂₄O₄₁ (Ref. [17]) and in PrBa₂Cu₃O₇ (Ref. [18]) indicating a
spatial charge fluctuation in these materials. In general, the origin of
the stretched exponential relaxation is the spatial distribution of
relaxation rates of different nuclei which gives Eq. (2) after averaging
over the space. For instance, this can be due to the dipolar interaction
with a small amount of paramagnetic impurity atoms statistically
distributed over the host lattice, which gives Eq. (2) with n = 0.5.[15]
The relaxation via uncontrolled magnetic impurities can be ruled out
since then one could expect the stretched exponential recovery also for
¹⁹⁹Hg nuclei which has not been observed in the experiment. The direct
dipolar ¹⁹F-¹⁹F interaction cannot be the reason as well because of low
values of the nuclear dipolar magnetic fields. The possible mechanism
might be the transferred hyperfine interaction[19] of ¹⁹F nuclei with Cu
electronic spins via the path: ¹⁹F-Hg-O2(apical)-Cu. This interaction is
expected to be isotropic which coincides with the observed symmetric ¹⁹F
NMR line shape. Since the exchange interac

Figure 4: Temperature dependence of ¹⁹F NMR spin-lattice relaxation
rates for HgBa₂CuO₄F_(x) sample 1F. The solid line is just a guide for
eye.

Figure 5: Copper NQR spectra of HgBa₂CuO₄F_(x) [samples 2F (upper), 1F
(middle)], and HgBa₂CuO₄₁₃ (bottom) measured at 4.2 K. Gaussian fit for
each Cu isotope and the resulting best fit are shown by solid lines.

Figure 3: ¹⁹F magnetization recovery curve measured at 90 K for
different HgBa₂CuO₄F_(x) samples: (a) sample 1F: stretched exponential
fit (solid line), single exponential fit (dashed line); (b) sample 2F:
double exponential fit (solid line), single exponential fit (dashed
line).

tion path for each ¹⁹F nucleus strongly depends on the occupation of the
O3 positions in four neighboring Hg-Hg meshes the hyperfine interaction
constant is statistically distributed over the O3 sites in the Hg-1201
matrix. This distribution is also reflected in the Lorentzian line shape
of ¹⁹F NMR spectra (see Fig. 1).

The resulting temperature dependence of the spin-lattice relaxation rate
R₁(T) for the sample 1F is shown in Fig. 4. The experimental ¹⁹F
spin-lattice relaxation rate exhibits several interesting features.
First, the T_(c) influence on the spin-lattice relaxation is not so
strong as for other nuclei in high-T_(c) superconductors. This coincides
with the negligible Knight shift of the ¹⁹F NMR line and can be
attributed to the low density of charge carriers in the O3 position of
the Hg layers. Second, the existence of the maximum at around
$T_{\rm max}$≃65 K has been observed on the 1/T₁ temperature dependence
for the sample 1F and on both 1/T₁ components for the sample 2F. Earlier
a similar behavior of the R₁(T) dependence was observed in Y-124 and
HgBa₂CuO_(4 + δ) oriented powder samples for ⁸⁹Y, ¹⁹F, and ¹⁹⁹Hg
nuclei^(6, 8, 14) as well as for ¹H in organic superconductors²⁰ and was
attributed there to the influence of the thermal fluctuations of the
flux lines on the nuclear spin-lattice relaxation. It should be noted
that in the vicinity of T_(c) this influence becomes less effective due
to the process of transformation of the 2D pancake vortices to the
conventional Abrikosov lines when the correlation length
ξ_(c)∼$1/\sqrt{1-T/T_{c}}$ exceeds the spacing between CuO₂ layers.²¹
This strongly reduces the fluctuating transverse magnetic field.

In contrast to the sample 1F, for the sample 2F with higher fluorine
content the recovery of the nuclear magnetization exhibits a
characteristic kink at time delay τ≃1 sec [see Fig. 3(b)] and therefore
is best described by a double exponential function with one order of
magnitude difference between the rates of fast and slow relaxation
components for the sample 2F. This yields the evidence that at higher
doping level a part of fluorine atoms occupies another oxygen position
and exhibits a fast nuclear spin-lattice relaxation due to proximity to
the copper site. This coincides with the observation of the second pair
of copper lines in the NQR spectrum of the sample 2F whereas in the
sample 1F we observed only one pair of Cu NQR lines (Fig. 5) which is
similar to that for the optimally oxygen doped HgBa₂CuO_(4.13) sample
without fluorine (sample O) previously studied by NQR (Ref. 22) and NMR
(Ref. 23) (sample 5 in Refs. 22 and 23) (Fig. 5). We can suppose that
like an occupation of the O3 position the substitution of F for another
O site occurs statistically without forming macroscopic regions in the
lattice. This is confirmed by the absence of any kink on the
ac-magnetization curve¹ which appears usually in the case of macroscopic
phase mixture.

In conclusion, the application of ¹⁹F NMR to fluorinated
HgBa₂CuO_(4 + δ) compounds confirms that fluorine atoms can be
successfully incorporated in the lattice of superconducting Hg-1201
phase in the nonstoichiometric O3 site. Partial occupation of another
oxygen position by fluorine atoms appears to be possible with the
increase of F content. Sharp narrowing of ¹⁹F NMR line above 35 K
manifests melting of the fluxoid lattice.

The authors express their special gratitude to M. Mehring, C. Slichter,
Y. Berthier, and A. Rigamonty for the interest to this work and for
fruitful discussions during Specialized Colloque Ampere. We are also
thankful to N. Brilliantov for important remarks. This work was
supported by the "Volkswagen-Stiftung, Federal Republik of Germany,"
Grant No. 1/73680.

## References

* (1) A. M. Abakumov _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **80**, 385 (1998). *
(2) V. A. Alyoshin _et al._, Physica C **255**, 173 (1995). * (3)_NMR
Frequency Table_, Bruker Almanac (Bruker GmbH, Karlsruhe, 1999). * (4)
B. N. Wani _et al._, Physica C **272**, 187 (1996). * (5) S. D. Goren
_et al._, Physica C **304**, 283 (1998). * (6) M. Corti _et al._,
Physica C **291**, 297 (1997). * (7) Pietro Carretta, Phys. Rev. B
**45**, 5760 (1992). * (8) M. Corti _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **54**, 9469
(1996). * (9) P. Carretta and M. Corti, Phys. Rev. Lett. **68**, 1236
(1992). * (10) A. Abragam, _The Principles of Nuclear Magnetism_
(Clarendon, Oxford, 1961), p. 439. * (11) T. Matsushita, Physica C
**214**, 100 (1993). * (12) K. Watanabe, Jpn. J. Appl. Phys., Part 2
**31**, L1586 (1992). * (13) U. Welp _et al._, Physica C **218**, 373
(1993). * (14) B. J. Suh _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **76**, 1928
(1996). * (15) D. Tse and S. R. Hartmann, Phys. Rev. Lett. **21**, 511
(1968). * (16) R. G. Palmer _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **53**, 958
(1984). * (17) M. Takigawa _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **57**, 1124 (1998). *
(18) B. Grevin _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **80**, 2405 (1998). * (19) M.
Mehring, Appl. Magn. Reson. **3**, 383 (1992). * (20) S. M. De Soto _et
al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **70**, 2956 (1993). * (21) J. K. Clem, Phys.
Rev. B **43**, 7837 (1991). * (22) A. A. Gippius _et al._, Physica C
**276**, 57 (1997). * (23) A. A. Gippius _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **59**,
654 (1999). * (24) S. D. Goren _et al._, Physica C **313**, 127
(1999). * (25) Y. Q. Song _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **70**, 3127
(1993).
