Comparison of the influence of Ni and Zn impurities on the
electromagnetic properties of YBa2Cu3O6.95

D. A. Bonn

S. Kamal

Kuan Zhang

Ruixing Liang

D. J. Baar

E. Klein

w. N. Hardy

Department of Physics, University of British Columbia, Vancouver,
British Columbia, Canada V6T 1Z1

29 November 1993

###### Abstract

A set of highly sensitive cavity perturbation techniques, quite
different from the ones most commonly used to measure thin films, has
been developed for measuring the surface impedance of small crystals of
high-T_(c) superconductors. Since the results of these studies differ
markedly from most surface-impedance measurements of thin films of
high-T_(c) superconductors, we describe the techniques in detail,
including recent improvements. Measurements of the surface resistance
and penetration depth of a twin-free crystal of YBa2Cu3O6.95 indicate
two striking differences from the surface impedance of conventional
superconductors. Both quantities exhibit linear temperature dependence
at low temperatures rather than the exponentially activated behavior of
an s-wave BCS superconductor. Also, a broad peak in the temperature
dependence of the surface resistance indicates that the large transport
scattering rate in the normal state collapses below T_(c) as the holes
condense into the superconducting condensate. Systematic studies of the
influence of Zn and Ni impurities on the surface impedance indicate that
these properties are very sensitive to defects and this sensitivity
provides further insight into the pairing state. Although both types of
impurities provide strong elastic scattering that limits the collapse of
the scattering rate and suppresses the peak in the surface resistance,
only Zn has a strong pair-breaking effect. As little as 0.31

pacs: 0163-1829/94/50(6)/4051(13)/506.00

## I Introduction

One of the focal points of research on high-T_(c) superconductors, the
nature of the pairing state, can be investigated by experimental
techniques that are sensitive to the spectrum of low-lying excitations
in the superconducting state. However, the small coherence length of
YBa2Cu3O7-8 gives rise to substantial complications for the experimental
techniques traditionally used to probe the superconducting pairing
state. Tunneling and far-infrared absorption, the two techniques that
usually give the most direct and detailed information on a
superconductor’s energy gap and spectrum of low-lying excitations, are
still subjects of controversy when applied to this high-T_(c) compound.
Tunneling measurements are difficult in a material with a coherence
length that is comparable to the lattice spacing, and measurements of
the energy gap by various tunneling techniques remain controversial,
particularly in YBa2Cu3O7-8 where the results depend a great deal on the
type of tunneling technique used.[1] The short coherence length also
guarantees that pure YBa2Cu3O7-8 is in the clean limit, which makes it
difficult to measure an energy gap by far-infrared techniques.[2]
Infrared measurements are further complicated by the presence of the
midinfrared-absorption band and phonon anomalies that are the dominant
features of the low-frequency optical conductivity.[3]

The high critical temperature complicates many other measurements that,
in principle, can be used to help identify the superconducting pairing
state. The temperature dependence of thermal conductivity, ultrasonic
attenuation, and heat capacity can provide information on the thermally
excited quasiparticles in the superconducting state. For instance, the
presence of an s-wave BCS energy gap manifests itself as an
exponentially activated temperature dependence in all of these
quantities at temperatures well below T_(c). Observation of power laws
at low temperature would instead suggest a pairing state with nodes in
the gap or gapless superconductivity. In YBa2Cu3O7-8, however, in the
temperature range of interest for probing the electronic excitations,
these properties are all strongly influenced by phonon contributions.[4]

All of these difficulties make measurements of the low-frequency
electromagnetic properties of YBa2Cu3O7-8 particularly important. At
microwave frequencies the surface impedance Z_(s) = R_(s) + iX_(S),
where R_(s) is the surface resistance and X_(s) is the surface
reactance, is the measurable complex quantity that characterizes the
electromagnetic properties of a superconductor. The surface reactance
measures the screening of fields by the superconducting condensate and
provides a direct measure of the London penetration depth via (in MKS
units) X_(s)(T) = μ₀ωλ(T). The penetration depth can also be measured by
magnetization and μSR techniques. The temperature dependence of λ(T)
determined from any of these techniques can provide information on the
pairing state, but the measurements to date have been highly
controversial. μSR is one of the few techniques that can measure the
absolute value of λ(0), but measurement of the temperature variation of
λ has been complicated by sample dependences.[5]⁻[8] Another
complication is that the muon relaxation rate is really a measure of
field dis tribution in the vortex state, and some modeling of the vortex
state is required in order to extract λ(T). The degree to which this
modeling affects the penetration depth extracted from μSR measurements
is still an active area of study. Although the problems of sample
dependence and modeling of the μSR lineshape are still being resolved,
the most recent measurements, of crystals similar to the ones used for
the measurements described in this paper, indicate a linear temperature
dependence for the penetration depth below 30 K. [7]

Magnetization measurements of aligned powders of YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) often
indicate a nearly quadratic temperature dependence for λ(T) in the ab
plane. [9, 10] Kinetic inductance measurements of the penetration depth
in thin films of YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) (Ref. [11]) were also ultimately shown
to be consistent with a quadratic temperature dependence in the
penetration depth at low temperatures. [12] Early magnetization
measurements of a single crystal of YBa₂Cu₃O_(6.95) did not have
sufficient precision to clearly discern the asymptotic behavior of λ(T)
at low temperature, [13] but a recent magnetization measurement of a
Tl₂Ba₂CaCu₂O₈ crystal showed a dominant linear term. [14] A very large
body of microwave measurements of YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) has been plagued by
sample dependence, and linear, [15] quadratic, [16, 17, 18, 19] and
exponentially activated [20] asymptotic behavior have all been reported,
a nearly quadratic term being the most commonly observed in thin films.
Recently, a distinctly linear term in λ(T) has been observed in
YBa₂Cu₃O_(6.95) crystals, and it has been suggested that the T² term and
sample dependence observed in thin films is the result of point defects
or grain boundaries. [15] One possible explanation of a linear λ(T) is a
d-wave pairing state with line nodes in the gap function. [12] It is
well known on theoretical grounds that strong potential scattering by
defects can easily push such a superconductor into the gapless regime
where a quadratic rather than linear term would be observed. [21, 22]
Therefore both the troublesome sample dependence in thin films and the
possibility that YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) might be a d-wave superconductor make
it clear that studies of λ(T) in carefully grown crystals with
deliberately introduced defects are essential in this field.

The crucial role that defects play in the microwave properties of
YBa₂Cu₃O_(6.95) has already been demonstrated for the surface
resistance. [23, 24, 25, 26] Just as in the case of λ(T), R_(s)(T) in
the crystals is qualitatively different from that observed in films.
Whereas high purity crystals have a relatively high surface resistance
with a broad peak near 40 K in the temperature dependence, [8, 27, 28]
some high quality films exhibit a loss that is lower and that decreases
monotonically with temperature. On the other hand, films also tend to
suffer from substantial variation from sample to sample. [18, 23, 29]
The high loss and non-monotonic temperature dependence in single
crystals have been attributed to a rapid decrease in the quasiparticle
scattering rate below T_(c). [8, 27] In this scenario the presence of
defects in the films are again the likely explanation for the difference
between films and crystals. This view is strongly supported by
systematic studies of R_(s)(T) in Zn-doped crystals where it was found
that the presence of Zn impurities limited the decrease in the
scattering rate, suppressed the broad peak in R_(s)(T), and lowered the
overall loss, giving a surface resistance very similar to that observed
in the lowest-loss thin films. [24, 25]

The present paper brings together the results of a systematic study of
the effects of Zn and Ni doping on the surface resistance and
penetration depth of YBa₂Cu₃O_(6.95) crystals. These two impurities are
currently under close scrutiny because they both substitute for Cu in
the CuO₂ planes, but have rather different effects on T_(c) and other
physical properties. In Sec. II we will summarize the experimental
techniques involved in our surface-impedance measurements, including
recent refinements that have improved both the precision and absolute
accuracy of the surface-resistance and penetration-depth measurements.
Section III will focus on the surface impedance of undoped
YBa₂Cu₃O_(6.95) crystals, including recent measurements of the surface
resistance of a twin-free crystal. The results of Zn and Ni doping will
be presented in Sec. IV, and the interpretation of these results in
terms of both a generalized two-fluid model and calculations for a
d-wave pairing state will be discussed in Sec. V.

## II Experimental details

All of the measurements presented here have been obtained by cavity
perturbation techniques using superconducting microwave resonators. When
a small superconducting sample is inserted into a resonant cavity in a
perturbation measurement, the small changes in the resonant frequency
and Q of the cavity provide the means of measuring X_(s)(T) and
R_(s)(T). The change in 1/Q of the cavity provides a relatively
straightforward measure of the surface resistance via

$$\Delta\frac{1}{Q}=\left[\frac{1}{Q_{s}}-\frac{1}{Q_{0}}\right]\propto R_{s}\ \ ,$$
(1)

where Q₀ is the Q of the empty cavity and Q_(s) is the Q of the cavity
with the sample inserted. The relationship between the frequency shift
and the surface reactance is complicated by the fact that the dominant
effect of inserting a sample into a cavity is an overall shift of the
resonant frequency by an amount proportional to V_(s)/V_(r), where V_(s)
is the sample volume and V_(r) is the effective volume of the resonator.
The surface reactance is proportional to the penetration depth of the
microwave fields and provides a relatively small frequency shift
δf ∝ −ΔV_(s)/V_(r), where ΔV_(s) is the volume of the sample penetrated
by the microwave fields. δf is the frequency shift relative to that
which would be measured for a sample with perfect screening and no
penetration of the microwave fields. The net frequency shift is

$$\frac{\Delta f}{f_{0}}=\frac{f_{s}-f_{0}}{f_{0}}\propto\frac{V_{s}}{V_{r}}\ \left[1-\frac{\Delta V_{s}}{V_{s}}\right]\ ,$$
(2)

where f₀ and f_(s) are the resonant frequencies of the unloaded and
loaded cavity, respectively. In principle, both R_(s)(T) and X_(s)(T)
can be measured in the same cavity, but the measurement of X_(s)(T) is
complicated by the large geometric frequency shift V_(s)/V_(r). It is
typically not possible to determine this shift, either by calculation or
the use of reference samples, with sufficient accuracy to obtain
reliable absolute values of _X__x__x_(_T_). Instead, the change in the
reactance from its value at some base temperature T0 is measured:

ΔX_(s)(T) = μ₀ωΔλ(T)
(3)
 = μ₀ω[λ(T) − λ(T₀)]
 ∝ −[f_(s)(T) − f_(s)(T₀)] .

Even with this compromise, it is difficult to measure R_(s)(_T_) and
D_l_(_T_) in the same cavity with sufficient precision to yield useful
information over the full range from low temperature to the normal state
of a high-temperature superconductor. The central difficulty is that the
measurements of very small R_(s) values in the superconducting state
require careful measurement of Q_(s) and Q0; thus, one must be able to
move the sample in and out of the resonator to get a good measure of the
small change in Q. Precise measurements of D_X__s_(_T_) have completely
the opposite requirement. The sample must not be allowed to move during
the course of the measurement or changes in the geometric shift,
_V__x_/_V__r_, can contaminate or completely dominate D_X__s_(_T_). Our
solution has been to design specialized resonators for these different
measurements.

An early version of the resonator used to measure D_X__s_(_T_) has been
described elsewhere.15 The resonator is a split ring operating near 900
MHz and coated with a superconducting Pb:Sn alloy to give a Q of roughly
106. The requirements for measurements of D_l_(_T_) to better than 1 A
are stringent: The resonator frequency must be stable to better than 1
Hz over the course of a measurement. The sample is mounted on a sapphire
plate that holds the crystal in the homogeneous, axial, microwave
magnetic field in the central bore of the split ring (H_rl2_t_). The
rest of the sample holder is designed to minimize any motion of the
sample as the temperature is changed: The sapphire plate is attached to
a sapphire block where the sample heater and thermometer are located and
the rest of the resonator assembly is at the temperature of the
regulated 1.3-K He bath, and the temperature gradient between the
sapphire block and the bath is sustained by a quartz tube. The rigidity
and very low thermal expansion of the quartz tube minimize any sample
motion over the relevant temperature range 1.3-100 K. A series of
measurements with the sample at different positions (in the first
version of the resonator) indicated that the magnetic field is
homogeneous enough that motion of the sample in these fields is not a
significant source of error. However, motion of the sapphire plate in
the inhomogeneous electric fields is a more difficult problem. This
source of systematic error has been further reduced in a new version of
the resonator that has a rectangular rather than a square bore. The
flatter shape allows the sample to be mounted farther away from the
strong electric fields near the gap in the split ring and also improves
the homogeneity of the electric fields in the region where the sample
resides. The new apparatus is capable of resolving frequency shifts of a
few tenths of a hertz, which, for a typical sample size, allows
measurements of D_l_(_T_) to a few tenths of 1 A.

The calibration of the resonator was done with measurements on a Pb:Sn
alloy sample with a T_(c) of 7.2 K. One can define a frequency shift
d_f_ and change in Q, d(1/_Q_), for a loaded resonator relative to the
frequency and Q of a sample that completely excludes the microwave
fields. These quantities are actually measurable for the normal state of
the Pb:Sn sample because the superconducting state is close to behaving
like a perfect conductor with very low surface resistance and negligible
penetration relative to the normal-state skin depth. Hence d(1/_Q_(_T_))
= 1/_Q_(_T_) - 1/_Q_(1.3 K) and d_f_ = _f_(_T_) - _f_(1.3 K). For Pb:Sn
in the normal state, the classical skin effect should hold accurately at
900 MHz and both d(1/_Q_) and 2d_f_/_f_ should be proportional to the
classical skin depth, which can be determined from the dc resistivity
via d_cl = (2_p__d_c/_m_0)1/2. Indeed, d(1/_Q_) tracks the temperature
dependence of d_cl_ very well, but thermal expansion of the sample
causes 2_d_f_/_f_ to deviate somewhat. Corrections for the thermal
expansion brought both quantities into agreement with d_cl_, as shown in
Fig. 1. For the purpose of calibrating the frequency-shift measurements,
we actually made use of the relationship d(1/_Q_) = 2d_f_/_f_ for a
metallic slab in order to obtain d_f_ from the measurements of d(1/_Q_)
of the Pb:Sn sample. For our measurement geometry, the frequency shift
associated with a metallic sample in the classical skin-effect regime
can be expressed as

$$\delta f = K_{n}\,A\,\delta_{\rm cl}\ ,$$
(4)

where A is the area of the slab-shaped sample. Thus, with measurements
of d(1/_Q_), the dc resistivity, and the area of the sample, one can use
Eq. (4) to obtain the cali

Figure 1: Comparison of the classical skin depth (solid line) of a Pb:Sn
reference sample and the 2d_f_/_f_ (triangles) and d(1/_Q_) (squares)
measurements performed in the split-ring resonator used for the
measurement of D_l_(_T_). The skin depth is determined from dc
resistivity measurements with the use of the classical skin-effect
expression d_cl = (2_p__d_c/_μ_0)1/2. The agreement between all of these
quantities indicates that the Pb:Sn alloy is in the classical
skin-effect regime and this is used to find the calibration constant
connecting d_f_ and D_l_ in the superconducting state.

bration constant K_(n). With this calibration the London penetration
depth in the superconducting state can be obtained from

$$\Delta\lambda(T) = \frac{\delta f(T)}{2K_{n}\,A}\,\,\,.$$

The difference in the propagation constant in the normal and
superconducting states is responsible for the factor of 2 difference in
the calibration constants that appear in Eqs. (4) and (5). One small
correction is made to the data before Eq. (5) is used to convert
frequency shifts to penetration depths: There is a small
temperature-dependent frequency shift for the bare sapphire sample
holder that is subtracted from the data set. This amounts to roughly a
20

Surface-resistance measurements were made with two different resonators:
a cylindrical cavity operated in the TE011 mode at 34.8 GHz and a
split-ring resonator near 4 GHz.30 Both resonators were coated with
Pb:Sn, which gives a Q₀ of 2 x 106 for the split-ring resonator and 1 x
107 for the cylindrical cavity. In both systems the sample is mounted on
a sapphire rod, which can be withdrawn for measurement of Q₀, and then
reinserted into the axial magnetic fields of the cavity (Hr∥c) such that
currents are driven in the _ab_ plane of the crystal. The calibration
constant that connects the Δ(1/Q) measured in this way with R_(s) has
been determined in two ways. At 34.8 GHz the skin depth in the normal
state of YBa2Cu3O6.95 is shallow enough that the classical skin-effect
formula can be applied directly to the measured surface resistance. Thus
a measurement of the dc resistivity which gives R_(s) in the normal
state and a measurement of Δ(1/Q) at the same temperature in the normal
state can be used to obtain an internal calibration for each crystal. On
the other hand, near 4 GHz the skin depth is comparable to the thickness
of some of the crystals and this gives an enhanced Δ(1/Q) in the normal
state that precludes using the previously described procedure. Instead,
calibration is done by measuring Δ(1/Q) in the normal state of a Pb:Sn
sample cut to the same size as the crystal. Measurements of crystals
that are thick enough to use both calibration techniques give absolute
values that agree to +-5

The Pb:Sn samples are also used to correct for small nonperturbative
effects in the resonators. The values of Δ(1/Q) for YBa2Cu3O6.95
measured at low temperature are close to 10-7 in the cylindrical
resonator and 10-8 in the split-ring resonator. At this level,
nonperturbative contributions to Δ(1/Q) due to slight rearrangement of
the microwave field pattern can be comparable to the contribution to
Δ(1/Q) from actual loss in the sample. In order to measure the
low-temperature residual loss of the samples, this extraneous
contribution to Δ(1/Q) had to be measured and subtracted from the data.
Measurement of the temperature dependence of Δ(1/Q) for several
different samples of Pb:Sn all show the rapid drop in loss expected for
a conventional superconductor at low temperatures and then run into a
sample-independent Δ(1/Q) by 2 K. Since it is unlikely that residual
loss in the Pb:Sn samples would be the same from sample to sample, we
attribute this limiting Δ(1/Q) to nonperturbative effects and subtract
it from the YBa2Cu3O6.95 data sets. At 3.88 GHz this correction amounts
to Δ(1/Q) ∼ 10⁻⁹ or a correction of roughly 7 μΩ in R_(s)(T), about 10

Finally, a dominant limitation on the sensitivity of our earlier loss
measurements with these superconducting resonators was the presence of
microphonics. When the Q is very high, even a very slight vibration of
the sample in a resonator’s fields leads to a modulation of the resonant
frequency, which limits the accuracy of the measurement of Δ(1/Q).
Particularly for the split-ring resonator, a reduction of the
microphonics has led to a significant improvement in the precision of
the measurements.

## III High purity crystals

The measurements presented here of the surface impedance of crystals of
YBa2Cu3O6.95 are a continuation of studies already reported in the
literature.8,15,27 The crystals are grown by a flux-growth technique
described in detail elsewhere.31 Despite the fact that high purity
starting materials are used, microwave measurements and elemental
analysis by inductively coupled plasma (ICP) mass spectroscopy both
indicate that the crystals typically contain  0.1

### Penetration depth

Figure 2 displays Δλ(T) = λ(T) − λ(1.3 K) for two typical crystals. As
has been discussed previously, the measurement geometry used here, with
Hr∥c, involves currents running in the ∂ direction as well as the _ab_
plane.15 Provided that λ_(ab) <  < c and λ_(c) <  ∝ a, b, the measured
Δλ in this geometry is given by Δλ = a D_A_bb + c D_l_c, where a is the
width of the crystal in the _ab_ plane and c is the thickness. Since
λ_(c)/λ_(ab) ∼ 7, the very thin samples (_a_/_c_  20) that we measure
only involve contributions from λ_(c) at the 10-15

somewhat sample dependent. Variation from sample to sample might arise
from variation in defect concentration from crystal to crystal or from
different _l_c contributions due to different thicknesses.

Although D_l_(_T_) is the quantity that is directly accessible by
microwave measurements, it is useful to construct the quantity
x_(t)(_T_) = l2(0)/_l_2(_T_), which is a measure of the superfluid
fraction. This quantity can be generated by adding 3 A to the data shown
in Fig. 2 in order to take into account the fact that the measurements
are relative to the value at 1.3 K rather than T = 0 and then choosing a
value of _l_(0). The resulting quantity shown in Fig. 3 has been
generated with _l_(0) = 1400 A, close to the value suggested by
far-infrared [33] and _m_SR (Ref. 8) measurements performed on similar
crystals. The superfluid density has a nearly linear temperature
dependence between 5 and 35 K with a slope, _dx__s_/_dt_ = -0.52, where
t is the reduced temperature, _T_/_T__c_. The slope at T_(c) is -3.0, 50

### Surface resistance

Figure 4 displays the surface resistance of a twin-free crystal measured
at 4.13 and 34.8 GHz. The main qualitative features–the rapid drop at
T_(c), the broad peak near 40 K, and the rather weak temperature
dependence below the peak–are all nearly the same as those observed in
earlier measurements.[25],[26] However, the improvements in measurement
technique and the use of a twin-free sample have led to a few
differences in detail. The minimum in R_(s)(_T_) near 75 K is deeper in
the twin-free crystal. We find that morphological defects such as growth
steps and twin boundaries often cause some filling in of this minimum,
particularly in the lower-frequency measurements. Also, the peak in
R_(s)(_T_) at 4.13 GHz is larger in amplitude and centered at a slightly
lower temperature than it is in our previously published data.[26] Most
importantly, the residual microwave loss at low temperatures is lower
than that found in twinned crystals, less than 5 _m_l_l at 4.13 GHz and
less than 150 _m_l_l at 34.8 GHz.

Although the surface impedance is the experimentally accessible quantity
in microwave techniques, the complex conductivity s = s1 - _i_s_2 (for
the convention J   J0_e_(_tot_) makes closer contact with the
microscopic properties of the material. In MKS units the surface
impedance is given by

$$\begin{equation*}Z_{s}=R_{s}+iX_{s}=\left[\frac{i\mu_{0}\omega}{\sigma_{1}-i \sigma_{2}}\right]^{1/2}\end{equation*}$$

for the case of local electrodynamics. Fortunately, the short mean free
path l in the normal state and the short

Figure 4: _ab_-plane surface resistance of a twin-free crystal of
YBa2Cu3O6,9 measured at 4.13 and 34.8 GHz. The lack of twin boundaries
has led to a lower residual loss than that typically observed in twinned
crystals.

Figure 3: The quantity _λ_2(0)/_λ_2(_T_) gives the temperature
dependence of the superfluid fraction x_(t)(_T_). The linear asymptotic
behavior below 35 K is clear as well as a steep slope in the regime near
T_(c). The values in this figure are derived from the data shown in Fig.
2 by assuming a value of 1400 Å for _λ_(0).

Figure 2: The low-temperature behavior of Δλ(_T_) = _λ_(_T_) −λ_(1.3 K)
for two different crystals of YBa2Cu3O6,95 is nearly linear between 5
and 25 K, with a small sample-dependent curvature at the lowest
temperatures.

coherence length ξ₀ in the superconducting state guarantee that simple,
local electrodynamics are adequate for calculating the properties
YBa₂Cu₃O_(6.95). Equation (6) can be used to derive a general expression
for determining σ₁:

$$\sigma_{1} = \left[ \left| \frac{\sigma_{z}}{2} \pm \left[ \frac{\sigma_{s}^{2}}{4} - \sigma_{2}\sigma_{s} \right] \right|^{1/2} \right]^{2} - \sigma_{2}^{2} \right]^{1/2}\,,$$

where the + (−) sign is used for the case σ₁> (<) $\sqrt{3}\sigma_{2}$.
σ_(s) is a measurable quantity broad peak in σ₁(T) can result from
competition between this decrease in x_(n)(T) and a rapid increase in
τ(T). Estimates based on Eq. (11) indicate that in YBa2Cu3O6.95, τ(T)
increases nearly two orders of magnitude before running into a limit due
to impurities, at which point the temperature dependence of x_(n)(T)
wins out and causes the conductivity to decrease with decreasing
temperature.

The huge increase in τ(T) implied by the 4.13-GHz measurements indicates
that for the 34.8-GHz measurements ωτ(T) should be of order unity below
30 K. This brings relaxation effects into play in the higher-frequency
data where the denominator of the normal-fluid term in Eq. (11) tends to
diminish the size of the peak in σ₁(T) and shift it to higher
temperature. This observed difference between the 4.13- and 34.8-GHz
data is separate confirmation that the quasiparticle lifetime does
increase dramatically below T_(e). Above T_(e), far-infrared
measurements indicate that ωτ(T) 1 at ∼2400 GHz,[41] and so the
observation of relaxation effects at 34.8 GHz is consistent with an
increase in τ(T) by two orders of magnitude. This interpretation is also
consistent with the smaller peak in σ₁(T) observed at THz
frequencies.[34]

Finally, the asymptotic behavior of σ₁(T) at the two measurement
frequencies should be noted. At 34.8 GHz, σ₁(T) is quite linear below 30
K. Although somewhat noisier, the data at 4.13 GHz also vary linearly
with temperature below 24 K. At both frequencies some sample-dependent
curvature is often observed below 5 K, similar to the sample-dependent
curvature observed in Δλ(T) at low temperatures. The twin-free crystal
has the most linear conductivity that we have observed, suggesting that
any curvature in σ₁(T) at low temperatures is probably due to defects,
either impurities or twin boundaries. The asymptotic behavior of Δλ(T)
and σ₁(T) will be discussed further in Sec. V, but it is at least worth
noting here that none of these measurements have the exponentially
activated behavior expected for an s-wave BCS superconductor.

## IV Zinc and Nickel Impurities

As was discussed in the Introduction, the possibility that defects are
responsible for much of the sample variation encountered in
surface-impedance measurements of YBa2Cu3O7-δ was a prime motivation for
studying the effects that deliberately introduced impurities have on the
surface impedance of single crystals. The observed properties of the
high purity crystals suggest two types of effects. First, one can study
the effect that impurities have on the quasiparticle lifetime. If there
is indeed a 100-fold increase in τ(T) in the clean crystals, then the
deliberate addition of impurities should place a limit on this increase,
resulting in a decrease in the amplitude of the peak in σ₁(T) and
elimination of the relaxation effects at 34.8 GHz. Second, the
possibility that YBa2Cu3O6.95 might be made gapless by the addition of a
modest level of impurities makes measurement of Δλ(T) in impurity-doped
crystals imperative.

Zn and Ni have been found to preferentially substitute for the Cu(2)
atoms in the YBa2Cu3O7-δ crystal structure.[42, 43] Thus they provide a
well-controlled means of specifically disturbing the CuO2 planes that
are the key element common to all of the highest-T_(e) superconductors.
The rather different effects that Zn and Ni have on the most basic
properties such as T_(e) and the dc resistivity suggest that these
dopants provide an important testing ground for models of high-T_(e)
superconductors. Zn has been found to have a more drastic effect on
T_(e) than Ni. Susceptibility measurements of T_(e) for our two batches
of YBa2Cu1-xZn3)3O6.95 with x =0.0015 and 0.0031 indicate that the
suppression of T_(e) with impurity content is ∂T_(e)/∂x∼ 1260, which is
in good agreement with the early study of doped crystals by Chien, Wang,
and Ong.[44] A batch of crystals with a Ni content of 0.0075 gave
∂T_(e)/∂x∼ 390, which is in good agreement with a recent study of
Ni-doped thin films[45] and indicates that Zn depresses T_(e) roughly 3
times more rapidly than Ni does. On the other hand, Ni is found to
increase the dc resistivity above T_(e) as much, or more, than Zn.[45]
That is, Ni provides at least as much scattering of the holes as Zn
does, but has a much less drastic effect on T_(e).

Figure 6(a) shows the striking effect that Zn impurities have on the
penetration depth. Addition of 0.31

Figure 6: Comparison of the effect of (a) Zn and (b) Ni impurities on
the temperature dependence of the London penetration depth. The sequence
shown in (a) from pure (squares) through 0.15

ly suggest that defects are responsible for the sample-dependent
quadratic behavior that is commonly observed in thin films of
YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ). The effect of Ni impurities is in striking contrast to
the Zn results. Figure 6(b) shows that a 0.75

Our initial studies of the effect of Zn impurities on the surface
resistance of YBa₂Cu₃O_(6.95) have been presented elsewhere, and the
only significant new feature of the results shown in Fig. 7 is that the
residual loss at low temperature is somewhat lower. However, all of the
results shown in Fig. 7 are for twinned crystals, including the high
purity crystal. Twin-free Zn-doped crystals are not yet available, and
so we can only draw conclusions from the effect that impurities have on
the temperature dependence of the loss. As is the case with the
measurements of Δλ(T), the measurements of R_(s)(T) demonstrate that the
microwave properties of YBa₂Cu₃O_(6.95) are extremely sensitive to
impurities. The range of surface resistances shown in Fig. 7 covers much
of the range of sample-dependent behavior observed in the best thin
films, suggesting that the surface resistance of thin films is strongly
influenced by defects of some sort. As shown in Fig. 8, Ni impurities
are also very effective at suppressing the broad peak in R_(s)(T), both
at 3.88 and 34.8 GHz.

As was done for the twin-free crystal in Sec. III, the R_(s)(T) and
Δλ(T) measurements can be used together to generate σ₁(ω, T) for the
doped crystals. The only difficulty with this is that the dependence of
λ(0) on impurity content is not well known and a value of λ(0) is needed
to extract σ₁(ω, T) from the microwave measurements. However, at the
rather low impurity concentrations studied here, it is reasonable to use
the 1400-A value assumed for the pure crystals. Since it is expected
that impurities will increase λ(0), this assumption leads to an
overestimate of the magnitude of σ₁(ω, T) for the impurity-doped
crystals, but does not affect the overall shape of the curves. Figure
9(a) and 9(b) show the conductivity of the Zn- and Ni-doped crystals,
respectively, compared to a high purity crystal. Both impurities
suppress the amplitude of the peak in σ₁(T) and shift it to somewhat
higher temperatures. The coherence peak of an s-wave BCS superconductor
that has a large inelastic scattering rate should be little affected by
the addition of the small level of impurities that we have used.[46, 47]
Thus the suppression of the peak in σ₁(T) that we observe for low levels
of impurities in YBa₂Cu₃O_(6.95) is further evidence that the peak is
not due to coherence effects. Instead, the observed suppression of the
peak shows that the presence of impurities places a limit on the rapid
increase in τ(T), which in turn limits the rise in σ₁(T) below T_(c). A
further indication that these low levels of impurities are limiting the
large increase in τ(T) is the disappearance of relaxation effects in the
crystal with Ni impurities. In the context of a two-fluid model [see Eq.
(11)], the large difference between the 3.88- and 34.8-GHz curves for
the high purity crystal indicates that ωτ∼ 1 at 34.8 GHz and τ must have
risen by two orders of magnitude below T_(c). The addition of Ni then
limits the increase in τ(T) enough that ωτ< 1 at 34.8 GHz and σ₁(34.8
GHz, T)∼σ₁(3.88 GHz, T).

A noteworthy difference between the effects of Zn and Ni impurities is
apparent in Fig. 9. The low-temperature behavior of σ₁(T) at 34.8 GHz
for the Zn-doped series changes from the linear temperature dependence
observed in the high purity crystal to a nearly quadratic temperature
dependence of 0.31

Figure 8: Substitution of 0.75

Figure 7: Measurements of the surface resistance at 34.8 GHz demonstrate
the strong influence that defects have on the microwave loss. The
sequence from pure (solid squares) through 0.15

or σ₁(T). Nickel and zinc have qualitatively different effects on the
low-temperature behavior of both Δλ(T) and σ₁(ω, T).

## 5 Models of the surface impedance

There are two key conclusions that can be drawn from the foregoing
surface-impedance measurements, independent of any models or microscopic
theory. The first is that the impurity studies have rather solidly
confirmed that a rapid increase in the quasiparticle lifetime below
T_(c) is responsible for the large peak in σ₁(T) in YBa₃Cu₃O_(6.95). The
dependence of the amplitude of the peak on frequency and impurity
content points to an increase in τ(T) by roughly two orders of magnitude
between T_(c) and 40 K. This conclusion can be made more quantitative by
applying the generalized two-fluid model to extract 1/τ(T) from the
measurements of R_(x)(T) and Δλ(T). Equations (7)-(9), which are used to
extract σ₁(ω, T) from R_(s)(T) and Δλ(T), are simply based on the
electrodynamics of a local superconductor and the only significant
assumption involved in extracting σ₁(ω, T) from our measurements is that
a value for λ(0) must be assumed in order to generate λ(T) from Δλ(T).
Equation (11) defines the generalized two-fluid model that we use to try
to interpret the data further. A division of oscillator strength between
a normal-fluid term with weight x_(n)(T) and a superfluid term with
weight x_(s)(T), where x_(s)(t)=λ²(0)/λ²(T), is based on the sum rule
that governs σ₁(ω) and the fact that it is the density of carriers in
the superfluid term that is responsible for London screening at low
frequencies. The weakest assumption of the model is the Drude form with
a frequency-independent lifetime that we choose for the normal-fluid
spectrum. This is likely an oversimplification, but in YBa₂Cu₃O_(6.95)
the temperature dependence of the scattering time is such a large effect
that a Drude spectral shape is sufficient for modeling the main effects
observed at microwave frequencies.

Figure 10 shows the scattering rate extracted from the measurements on
the twin-free crystal. The small residual loss at low temperatures (5 μΩ
at 4.13 GHz and 100 μΩ at 34.8 GHz) has been subtracted from the data
sets before the analysis. The subtraction only has a significant effect
on the inferred values of 1/τ(T) below 10 K. Thus, insofar as the
two-fluid analysis is valid, the values of 1/τ(T) shown in Fig. 10 are
reliable down to about 10 K. The two-fluid analysis of the 4.13-GHz data
indicates that 1/τ(T) falls by more than a factor of 100 from its value
of 2.5 × 10¹³ s⁻¹ just above T_(c) to a value of about 1.4 × 10¹¹ s⁻¹ at
low temperatures. This implies that at low temperatures στ=1.5 at 34.8
GHz and places the low-temperature 34.8 GHz data in the regime where
relaxation effects are important. The fact that ωτ is of order unity is
consistent with the observation that the σ₁(34.8 GHz,
T)∼$\frac{1}{2}\sigma_{1}$(4.13 GHz, T) below 30 K.

The quantitative differences between 1/τ(T) inferred

Figure 10: The quasiparticle scattering rate inferred from the
measurements of σ₁(T) and Δλ(T) for the twin-free crystal at 4.13 GHz
(open squares) and 34.8 GHz (solid squares) shows a rapid decrease by a
factor of 100 below T_(c) as the holes condense in the superconducting
state. The differences between these two curves are due to inadequacies
in the Drude line shape used to model the frequency dependence of the
conductivity in the two-fluid model. The two-fluid analysis also
indicates that the addition of 0.31

Figure 9: Effect of (a) Zn and (b) Ni impurities on the conductivity.
Both figures include the 3.88-GHz (open squares) and 34.8-GHz (solid
squares) results for a high purity, twinned crystal. (a) shows that
substitution with 0.15

from the data at the two different frequencies indicate that the Drude
spectral shape does not adequately model all of the details of the
conductivity. In the temperature range above 50 K, ωτ<<1 at both
frequencies, and a Drude σ_(↑)(T) would be frequency independent.
Instead, we find that σ_(↓)(T) is 30

The results from applying the two-fluid model to the 34.8-GHz
measurements of the 0.31

The second solid conclusion that can be drawn from the surface-impedance
measurements is that there is a spectrum of excitations in the
superconducting state that extends to very low energies in
YBa₂Cu₃O_(6.95). In particular, the lack of exponentially activated
behavior in either R_(s)(T) or Δλ(T) argues strongly against an s-wave
BCS pairing state with a well-developed gap in the excitation spectrum.
A number of studies of possible pairing mechanisms in high-T_(c)
superconductors have pointed toward the possibility of a pairing state
with d-wave symmetry.[49, 50, 51] Annett, Goldenfeld, and Renn have
shown that such a pairing state in the crystal symmetry appropriate for
YBa₂Cu₃O_(6.95) would have line nodes in the gap function that lead to a
linear temperature dependence in Δλ(T) at low temperatures.[12] Given
that a linear Δλ(T) is in fact what we observe in our high quality
crystals of YBa₂Cu₃O_(6.95), the rest of the surface-impedance
measurements should be examined in the light of this possibility. There
is already a significant body of calculations of electromagnetic
properties of anisotropic pairing states; earlier work aimed primarily
at the heavy fermion superconductors,[4, 21, 52] and a more recent
resurgence of interest in the context of high-temperature
superconductors.[12, 22, 53] These studies include calculations of λ(T),
σ_(↓)(ω, T), and the effects of impurities on superconductors with
non-s-wave pairing states. In particular, recent calculations by
Hirschfeld _et al.[53]_ indicate that the linear behavior of Δλ(T)
should be accompanied by a quadratic temperature dependence for σ_(↑)(T)
at low frequency (ωτ<<<1). That is, for our nominally pure, twin-free
sample the region below 25 K that exhibits the linear Δλ(T) should be
accompanied by quadratic behavior for σ_(↓)(T). Instead, we observe
linear temperature dependence for σ_(↓)(T) at both 4.13 and 34.8 GHz in
addition to the linear Δλ(T). This asymptotic behavior of σ_(↓)(T) and
Δλ(T), shown in Fig. 11, is what one expects for a two-fluid model with
a temperature-independent τ at low temperatures. Although the
calculations of σ_(↓)(ω, T) for a d

Figure 11: Asymptotic behavior of the conductivity at 4.13 GHz (open
squares) and the normal-fluid density (triangle). The linear behavior of
x_(n)(T) is consistent with a pairing state that has line nodes in the
energy gap, but the linear behavior of σ_(↓)(T) is at odds with the T²
temperature dependence expected for the conductivity of a d-wave
superconductor.

wave superconductor can be cast in the form of a two-fluid model, they
contain a frequency and temperature-dependent τ, even for impurity
scattering. In particular, at low frequency and temperature, impurity
scattering gives τ(T) ∝ T, which gives the extra power of T difference
between Δλ(T) and σ₁(T) in the d-wave calculations.

The doped samples provide further tests of the interpretation of the
low-temperature asymptotic behaviors. It has been well known that
impurities, even nonmagnetic ones, can make a superconductor with a
non-s-wave pairing state gapless and that a distinctive feature of this
gapless state is quadratic behavior of Δλ(T) at low temperatures.[21]
Hirschfeld and Goldenfeld have shown that a small concentration of
impurities in a d-wave superconductor can lead to a crossover from T²
behavior at low temperatures to linear temperature dependence above some
temperature T^(•).[22] Furthermore, for resonant scattering the
quadratic low-temperature regime should be in a measurable range for
relatively small impurity concentrations that only have a small effect
on T_(ϵ). The most obvious case for a crossover temperature is in the
nominally pure samples which tend to show some curvature away from the
linear temperature dependence below roughly 5 K. Similarly, Lee, Paget,
and Lemberger have reported crossover behavior in thin films of
YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ), though with a substantially higher cross-over
temperature of 25 K, presumably due to the higher level of defects in
the thin films.[54] Figure 12 displays the behavior of the normal-fluid
density, x_(n)(T) = 1 − λ²(0)/λ²(T), for the pure and Zn-doped samples,
along with fits to an interpolation formula x_(n)(T) = aT²/(T + T^(•)).
These fits indicate that the cross-over temperatures for the pure 0.15

Ni impurities do not fit into the same scheme of resonant scattering
that seems to give a reasonable description of the Zn impurity effects.
The 0.75

Figure 12: Low-temperature behavior of the normal-fluid density
x_(n)(T) = 1 − λ²(0)/λ²(T) in the nominally pure crystal (open squares)
and the samples doped with 0.15

Figure 13: Asymptotic behavior of the normal-fluid density (triangles)
and 34.8-GHz conductivity (squares) vs. the square of the reduced
temperature for the 0.31

sistence of the linear D_l_(_T_) in the Ni-doped sample, but such a huge
difference in the nature of the scattering for the two impurities bears
closer examination.

## VI Conclusions

The striking qualitative features of the surface impedance of high
purity crystals of YBa2Cu3O6.95 lead to two far-reaching conclusions
about the fundamental properties of this high-_T__c_ superconductor. The
broad peak in the surface resistance indicates that the quasiparticle
scattering rate drops dramatically below T_(c), falling from the large
value caused by inelastic scattering above T_(c) to a low value that is
controlled by impurity scattering in the superconducting state. This
phenomenon has manifested itself in far-infrared,36 THz spectroscopy,34
and thermal conductivity37 measurements as well as the surface
resistance and must be taken into account in the interpretation of any
property in the superconducting state that is sensitive to the
quasiparticle scattering rate. The fact that the inelastic scattering
collapses as the holes condense in the superconducting state makes it
clear that the large scattering rate in the normal state is primarily
_electronic_ in origin; there is neither a significant impurity nor a
large phonon contribution to the scattering rate above T_(c).

The linear temperature dependence observed for D_l_(_T_) and s1(_T_) at
low temperatures indicates that there is a spectrum of excitations down
to very low energies in the superconducting state. This linear behavior
is quite unlike the exponentially activated behavior caused by the
nodeless energy gap of a conventional _s_-wave BCS superconductor.
Instead, the linear temperature dependence of D_l_(_T_) is the
asymptotic behavior expected for a _d_-wave pairing state with line
nodes in the energy gap. However, present calculations indicate that a
_d_-wave pairing state with line nodes should have quadratic temperature
dependence for s1(_T_), rather than the linear behavior that we observe
for YBa2Cu3O6.95. It is not yet clear whether this discrepancy is
evidence against a _d_-wave pairing state or is the result of some
assumption built into the theoretical calculations of s1(_o_,_T_).

The fact that it has taken years to uncover these clear, qualitative
features of the surface impedance of pure YBa2Cu3O6.95 is a testament to
the sensitivity of these properties to the presence of defects. This
sensitivity has two sources. Most obviously, impurities control the size
of the drop in the quasiparticle scattering rate below T_(c) and the
effect that this has on the microwave surface resistance is clearly
demonstrated by the decrease in R_(s)(_T_) with the addition of either
Zn or Ni impurities. The second, more subtle, effect that impurities can
have is to push YBa2Cu3O6.95 into a gapless state. Addition of as little
as 0.15

There is a further connection between the impurity studies presented
here and the NMR results. Although the NMR measurements indicate that
there is a local moment associated with Ni impurities, there is no sign
of gapless behavior in the NMR measurements of a sample containing 1

[MISSING_PAGE_POST]

Footnote 2 S. Hegde, and B. Dutta, Phys. Rev. Lett. **64**, 84 (1990). *
[30] M. Reedyk and T. Timusk, Phys. Rev. Lett. **69**, 2705 (1992). *
[31] R. A. Klemm, K. Scharnberg, D Walker, and C. T. Rieck, Z. Phys. B
**72**, 139 (1988). * [32] D. R. Harshman, L. F. Schneemeyer, J. V.
Waszczak, G. Aeppli, R. J. Cava, B. Batlogg, L. W. Rupp, E. J. Ansaldo,
and D. Ll. Williams, Phys. Rev. B **39**, 851 (1989). * [33] B. Pumpin,
H. Keller, W. Kundig, W. Odermatt, I. M. Savic, J. W. Schneider, H.
Simmler, P. Zimmermann, J. G. Bednorz, Y. Maeno, K. A. Muller, C.
Rossel, E. Kaldis, S. Rusiecki, W. Assmus, and J. Kowalewski, Physica C
**151-152**, 151 (1989). * [34] J. E. Sonier, R. F. Kiefl, J. H. Brewer,
D. A. Bonn, J. F. Carolan, K. H. Chow, P. Dosanjh, W. N. Hardy, Ruixing
Liang, W. A. MacFarlane, P. Mendels, G. D. Morris, T. M. Riseman, and J.
W. Schneider, Phys. Rev. Lett. **72**, 744 (1994). * [35] D. A. Bonn,
Ruixing Liang, T. M. Riseman, D. J. Baar, D. C. Morgan, Kuan Zhang, P.
Dosanjh, T. L. Duty, A. MacFarlane, G. D. Morris, J. H. Brewer, W. N.
Hardy, C. Kallin, and A. J. Berlinsky, Phys. Rev. B **47**, 11 314
(1993). * [36] A. Porch, J. R. Cooper, D. N. Zheng, J. R. Waldram, A. M.
Campbell, and P. A. Freeman, Physica C **214**, 350 (1993). * [37] A. M.
Neminsky and P. N. Nikolaev, Physica C **212**, 389 (1993). * [38] A. T.
Fiory, A. F. Hebard, P. M. Mankiewich, and R. E. Howard, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **61**, 1419 (1988). * [39] J. A. Annett, N.Goldenfeld, and S. R.
Renn, Phys. Rev. B **39**, 2778 (1991). * [40] L. Kruisin-Elbaum, R. L.
Greene, F. Holtzberg, A. P. Malozemoff, and Y. Yeshurun, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **62**, 217 (1989). * [41] Hong Ning, H. Duan, P. D. Kirven, A. M.
Hermann, and T. Datta, J. Supercond. **5**, 903 (1993). * [42] W. N.
Hardy, D. A. Bonn, D. C. Morgan, Ruixing Liang, and Kuan Zhang, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **70**, 3999 (1993). * [43] J. M. Pond, K. R. Carroll, J. S.
Horowitz, D. B. Chrisey, M. S. Osofsky, and V. C. Cestone, Appl. Phys.
Lett. **59**, 3033 (1991). * [44] S. M. Anlage and Dong-Ho Wu, J.
Supercond. **5**, 395 (1992). * [45] Zhen Xiang Ma, R. C. Taber, L. W.
Lombardo, A. Kapitulnuk, M. R. Beasley, P. Merchant, C. B. Eom, S. Y.
Hou, and Julia M. Phillips, Phys. Rev. Lett. **71**, 781 (1993). * [46]
J. Y. Lee and T. Lemberger, Appl. Phys. Let. **62**, 2419 (1993). * [47]
Steven M. Anlage, Brian W. Langley, Guy Deutscher, Jurgen Halbritter,
and M. R. Beasley, Phys. Rev. B **44**, 9764 (1991). * [48] F. Gross, B.
S. Chandrasekhar, D. Einzel, K. Andres, P. J. Hirschfeld, H. R. Ott, J.
Beuers, Z. Fisk, and J. L. Smith, Z. Phys. B **64**, 175 (1986). * [49]
Peter J. Hirschfeld and Nigel Goldenfeld, Phys. Rev. B **48**, 4219
(1993). * [50] M. Lippert, J. P. Strobel, G. Saemann-Ischenko, S.
Orbach, S. Hensen, G. Muller, H. Piel, J. Schutzmann, K. F. Renk, B.
Roas, and W. Gieres, Physica C **185-189**, 1041 (1991). * [51] Kuan
Zhang, D. A. Bonn, Ruixing Liang, D. J. Baar, and W. N. Hardy, Appl.
Phys. Lett. **62**, 3019 (1993). * [52] D. A. Bonn, Kuan Zhang, Ruixing
Liang, D. J. Baar, D. C. Morgan, and W. N. Hardy, J. Supercond. **6**,
219 (1993). * [53] D. A. Bonn, D. C. Morgan, Kuan Zhang, Ruixing Liang,
D. J. Baar, and W. N. Hardy, J. Phys. Chem. Solids **54**, 1297
(1993). * [54] D. A. Bonn, P. Dosanjh, R. Liang, and W. N. Hardy, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **68**, 2390 (1992). * [55] T. Shibauchi, A. Maeda, H.
Kitano, T. Honda, and K. Uchinokura, Physica C **203**, 315 (1992). *
[56] N. Klein, U. Dahne, U. Poppe, N. Tellmann, K. Urban, S. Orbach, S.
Hensen, G. Muller, and H. Piel, J. Supercond. **5**, 195 (1992). * [57]
D. A. Bonn, D. C. Morgan, and W. N. Hardy, Rev. Sci. Instrum. **62**,
1819 (1991). * [58] Ruixing Liang, P. Dosanjh, D. A. Bonn, D. J. Baar,
J. F. Carolan, and W. N. Hardy, Physica C **195**, 51 (1992). * [59] D.
Achkir, M. Poirier, D. A. Bonn, Ruixing Liang, and W. N. Hardy, Phys.
Rev. B **48**, 13 184 (1993). * [60] D. M. Basov, A. V. Puchkov, R. A.
Hughes, T. Strach, T. Timusk, D. A. Bonn, R. Liang, and W. N. Hardy
(unpublished). * [61] Martin C. Nuss, P. M. Mankiewich, M. L. O’Malley,
E. H.Westerwick, and Peter B. Littlewood, Phys. Rev. Lett. **66**, 3305
(1991). * [62] P. B. Littlewood and C. M. Varma, Phys. Rev. B **46**,
405 (1992). * [63] D. B. Romero, C. D. Porter, D. B. Tanner, L. Forro,
D. Mandrus, L. Mihaly, G. L. Carr, and G. P. Williams, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**68**, 1590 (1992). * [64] R. C. Yu, M. B. Salamon, J. P. Lu, and W. C.
Lee, Phys. Rev. Lett. **69**, 1431 (1992). * [65] J. L. Cohn, V. Z.
Kresin, M. E. Reeves, and S. A. Wolf, Phys. Rev. Lett. **71**, 1657
(1993). * [66] R. C. Yu, M. B. Salamon, and J. P. Lu, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**71**, 1658 (1993). * [67] M. J. Rice and Y. R. Wang, Bull. Am. Phys.
Soc. **34**, 517 (1989); (unpublished). * [68] D. B. Tanner and T.
Timusk, in _Physical Properties of High-Temperature Superconductors_,
edited by Donald M. Ginsberg (World Scientific, Singapore, 1992), Vol.
3. * [69] H. Maeda, A. Koizumi, N. Bamba, E. Takayama-Muromachi, F.
Izumi, H. Asano, K. Shimizu, H. Moriwaki, H. Maruyama, Y. Kuroda, and H.
Yamazaki, Physica C **157**, 483 (1989). * [70] Frank Bridges, Guoguang
Li, James B. Boyce, Tord Claeson, and H. Wuhl (unpublished). * [71] T.
R. Chien, Z. Z. Wang, and N. P. Ong, Phys. Rev. Lett. **67**, 2088
(1991). * [72] Michael J. Sumner, Jin-Tae Kim, and Thomas R. Lemberger,
Phys. Rev. B **47**, 12 248 (1993). * [73] F. Marsiglio, Phys. Rev. D
**44**, 5373 (1991). * [74] R. Akis and J. P. Carbotte, Solid State
Commun. **79**, 577 (1991). * [75] A. J. Berlinsky, C. Kallin, G. Rose,
and A.-C. Shi, Phys. Rev. B **48**, 4074 (1993). * [76] P. A. Lee and N.
Read, Phys. Rev. Lett. **58**, 2691 (1987). * [77] C. Gros, R. Joynt,
and T. M. Rice, Z. Phys. B **68**, 425 (1987). * [78] P. Monthoux, A. V.
Balatsky, and D. Pines, Phys. Rev. Lett. **67**, 3448 (1991). * [79] P.
J. Hirschfeld, P. Wolfe, J. A. Sauls, D. Einzel, and W. O. Putikka,
Phys. Rev. B **40**, 6695 (1989). * [80] P. J. Hirschfeld, W. O.
Putikka, and D. J. Scalapino, Phys. Rev. Lett. **71**, 3705 (1993). *
[81] Ju Young Lee, Kathleen Paget, and Thomas R. Lemberger
(unpublished). * [82] W. Loram, K. A. Mitza, and P. F. Freeman, Physica
C **171**, 243 (1990). * [83] K. Ishida, Y. Kitaoka, N. Ogata, T.
Kamino, K. Asayama, J. R. Cooper, and N. Athanassopoulou, J. Phys. Soc.
Jpn. **62**, 2803 (1993). * [84] H. Alloul, P. Mendels, H. Casalta, J.
F. Marucco, and J. Arabski, Phys. Rev. Lett. **67**, 3140 (1991). * [85]
R. Cooper, Supercond. Sci. Technol. **4**, 181 (1991). * [86] P.
Monthoux and D. Pines, Phys. Rev. B **49**, 4261 (1994).
