# Ground states of a triangular copper oxide system

A. P. Ramirez, R. J. Cava, J. J. Krajewski, and W. F. Peck, Jr.

AT&T Bell Laboratories, 600 Mountain Avenue, Murray Hill, New Jersey
07974

###### Abstract

The low-temperature specific heat, C(T), of the Delafossite family of
triangle-planar cuprates, RCuO_(2 + δ), has been studied for R= La and Y
and $0<\delta\leq\frac{\delta}{3}$. Structural transformations between
the hexagonal and the orthorhombic phases for R= Y appear as distinct
lattice-contribution changes in C(T). Near the oxygen-ordered limit,
$\delta=\frac{2}{3}$, C(T) displays a linear-in-T term of 6.5 and 1.3
mJ/mole K² for R= La and Y, respectively. The large specific-heat
enhancement and a similar enhancement of the magnetic susceptibility for
R= La are interpreted in terms of strong correlations near a
metal-antiferromagnetic-insulator instability.

The fascinating properties of the copper oxide superconductors result
from special microscopic conditions: (1) Cu ions situated in a
square-planar arrangement and bridged by oxygen ions, (2) weak coupling
to neighboring layers, and (3) doping such that the Fermi level lies
near the middle of the Cu-O σ^(*) band. So far, there is no theoretical
consensus regarding the precise role of each of these ingredients in
producing superconductivity. Experimentally, it is of course not
possible to vary each of these properties at will, though there is by
now a large family of cuprate superconductors, each possessing different
microscopic properties which can be studied for the purpose of
systematic comparison.[1] One shared feature of all of these compounds,
however, is the square-planar Cu arrangement. Recently, a class of
cuprates has been reported[2] where the Cu ions sit not on a square
planar, but on a triangle-planar lattice, allowing a test of
geometry-based ideas for superconducting pairing, while retaining some
of the unique microscopic features of Cu-O bonds. In the present work,
we report on the low-temperature specific heat C(T) of these materials
over a wide range of concentrations, in magnetic fields up to 12 T and
at temperatures from 0.1 to 15 K. We find that while these compounds are
not superconducting, in the most structurally homogeneous members of
this family, the low-energy behavior is that of a coexisting Fermi
liquid and local moment system, similar in many respects to Si:P. For
LaCuO_(2.64), both the specific heat and magnetic susceptibility of the
Fermi liquid components are enhanced above the free electron values,
suggesting the possibility of a nearby instability to an
antiferromagnetic insulator.

The Delafossite structure is commonly realized for compounds with
chemical formula ABX₂, where both A and B cations form two-dimensional
arrays.[3] Typically B is monovalent, and variations of ABX₂ involving
nonmagnetic Cu⁺ and a magnetic trivalent ion have been studied with the
focus on the geometrically frustrated magnetism of the trivalent
species.[3, 4] We recently demonstrated that RCuO₂,[1] where R= La or Y,
can be hole doped by oxygen intercalation into the Cu layer with
concentrations of up to RCuO_(2.7), that is, over the same range of Cu
valence as found in the square-planar cuprate superconductors. The
temperature-dependent susceptibility, χ(T), and the resistivity, ρ(T),
of the triangular systems display two distinct types of behavior which
are correlated with two types of oxygen-order-driven space groups. For
R= Y and δ < 0.56 in RCuO_(2 + δ)[ = RCuO(δ)] the structure is
orthorhombic and both χ and 1/ρ display an activated temperature
dependence. For R= Y and δ > 0.56, the structure is hexagonal and the
magnetothermal behavior is more complicated–ρ displays variable-range
hopping and χ resembles that of a geometrically frustrated magnet,
albeit with a low moment. For R= La, the structure is hexagonal over the
range where the material is single phase (δ > 0.57), and the bulk
behavior is similar to hexagonal R=Y material. It is believed, on the
basis of preliminary neutron scattering work[5] that the hexagonal phase
possesses a high degree of oxygen order, corresponding to a
$\sqrt{3}\times\sqrt{3}$ oxygen superlattice.

The samples studied here were ceramics, prepared by a method described
elsewhere.[2] Specific heat measurements were made using a standard
semiadiabatic heat pulse technique. Susceptibility measurements were
made using a commercial superconducting quantum interference device
magnetometer. Some of the R=Y samples had a 1

In most of the samples studied, the low temperature C(T) is dominated by
a rise with decreasing temperature, most likely due to a small fraction
of Curie-like impurities. It is expected that this contribution arises
from Cu²⁺ ions at crystal defects which fluctuate independently of the
majority of the ions. For the sample with the largest such contribution,
the total entropy is only a few percent of Rln2, agreeing with the
susceptibility-derived impurity concentration.[2] For the purpose of
investigating the behavior of the bulk of the strongly interacting
moments, it is clearly desirable to separate out the Curie contribution.
This will be easiest done using those samples possessing the lowest such
impurity contribution, LaCuO(0.64) and Y_(0.99)Ca_(0.01)CuO_(2.65) [≡
Y(Ca)CuO(0.65)]. In order to perform accurate fits to C(T), we must have
an analytical form for the Curie spin behavior. This is difficult to do
for H = 0 since the precise form of the (small) interaction among these
spins is not known. For finite fields, gμ_(B)H ≈ k_(B)T, however, the
low-energy spectrum of paramagnetic impurities is well described by a
spin $\frac{1}{2}$ Schottky anomaly, as shown in Fig. 2. The lattice
contribution to C(T) can be assumed to have the usual power law form,
modified to take into account the two dimensionality. The entropy of the
Schottky anomaly at 6 T (0.24

In Fig. 3 are shown similar finite-field C(T) data for

Figure 3: Specific heat of Y_(0.99)Ca_(0.01)CuO_(2.65) for various
applied magnetic fields. The curves result from a least-squares fit of
C(T) with H = 6 T to terms varying as 1/T² (dashed), T (dotted), T²
(dashed-dot), T³ (dashed-doubled dotted), and a Schottky anomaly (short
dotted). The resulting fit coefficients for both H = 6 and 11 T are
shown at the top.

Figure 2: Specific heat of LaCuO_(2.6) for various applied magnetic
fields. The curves result from a least-squares fit of C(T) with H = 6 T
to terms varying as 1/T² (dashed), T (dotted), T² (dashed-dot), T³
(dashed-doubled dotted), and a Schottky anomaly (short dotted). The
resulting fit coefficients for both H = 6 and 12 T are shown at the top.

Figure 1: Specific heat of the copper Delafossites RCuO_(2 + δ) for R=La
and Y, over a range of oxygen concentrations. The difference in C(T) at
15 K between the R= La systems and the hexagonal and orthorhombic R= Y
systems is related to different phonons contributions. The table shows
the effective Debye temperatures, Θ_(D)(15), obtained by fitting the
data to a T³ form between 12 and 15 K.

Y(Ca)CuO(0.65). Here we see the same qualitative field dependence of the
low-temperature Curie-spin contribution as found for LaCuO(0.64), as
well as a linear term which is relatively field independent between 6
and 12 T. However, the value of the linear term, as found in an
unconstrained fit similar to that shown in Fig 2, is γ₀ = 1.3 mJ/mole
K², much lower than for LaCuO(0.64). The Schottky anomaly from the Curie
spins is several times smaller than for LaCuO(0.64). In addition, the
lattice contribution for C(T) is better fitted over this limited
temperature range with a T⁴ term–substituting a T³ term leads to a
negative value for the T² term. This more rapid temperature dependence
suggests either a difference in the photon density of states between
Y(Ca)CuO(0.65) and LaCuO(0.64), or a magnetic contribution less
sensitive to field than free spins.

Based on existing transport [2] and NMR data, [8] it is reasonable to
interpret the finite γ₀ as arising from conduction electrons. The
density of these electrons can be estimated from the O density, assuming
complete charge transfer between O and Cu. We note that the average Cu
valence will correspond to 2⁺(d⁹) for δ = 0.5, and is expected to
produce a magnetic insulator. If the conduction electron density per Cu
is given by n = 2(δ − 0.5), then for δ = 0.64, the Fermi energy is
E_(F) ≈ 6060 K, assuming a two-dimensional Fermi surface. If such a
system can be considered weakly interacting, then we can use the free
electron relation in 2D, γ₀ = πmk_(B)²/3ℏ² = 1.26 mJ/mole K², similar in
magnitude to that found for Y(Ca)CuO(0.65), but a factor of 5 lower than
in LaCuO(0.64). The origin of this discrepancy is discussed below.

χ(T) value. In the presence of an applied field the BL
temperature-dependent C(T) term becomes a Schottky anomaly,
corresponding to odd-numbered spin clusters in the inhomogeneous medium.
The density of localized moments, n_(s), in this model can then be
inferred from the height of the Schottky anomaly in finite fields, and
we find n_(s) ≈ 0.25%. Comparing this to similar results for Si:P [14],
we infer a density of local moments on the order of 1

The BL picture provides a convenient framework with which to parametrize
the data presented here. However, the underlying phenomena are quite
likely to differ quantitatively from that of Si:P. For instance, in the
latter system at the metal-insulator transition, the radius of a donor
electron is about an order of magnitude greater than in LaCuO(0.64). The
growth of magnetic clusters as T approaches zero will therefore be
influenced to a greater degree by longer range forces in Si:P than in
LaCuO(0.64). It is intriguing, therefore, that the behavior of the two
systems is so similar in such different parameter ranges.

A qualitatively different picture emerges for Y(Ca)CuO(0.65). Here,
γ ≈ γ₀, whereas the susceptibility enhancement, inferred from the
high-temperature data, is  ∼ 5. [The low-temperature data are obscured
by the presence of a second, ferromagnetic, phase (T_(c) = 85 K)
incorporating only of order 1
