# Specific heat and μSR study on the noncentrosymmetric superconductor
LaRhSi₃

V. K. Anand,^(*) A. D. Hillier, and D. T. Adroja^(†)

ISIS Facility, Rutherford Appleton Laboratory, Chilton, Didcot Oxon OX11
0QX, United Kingdom

A. M. Strydom

Physics Department, University of Johannesburg, P.O. Box 524, Auckland
Park 2006, South Africa

H. Michor

Institute of Solid State Physics, Vienna University of Technology,
A-1040 Wien, Austria

K. A. McEwen

Department of Physics and Astronomy and London Centre for
Nanotechnology, University College London, Gower Street, London WC1E
6BT, United Kingdom

B. D. Rainford

Physics Department, Southampton University, Southampton SO17 1BJ, United
Kingdom

###### Abstract

We have investigated the superconducting properties of the
noncentrosymmetric superconductor LaRhSi₃ by performing magnetization,
specific heat, electrical resistivity, and muon spin relaxation (μSR)
measurements. LaRhSi₃ crystallizes with the BaNiSn₃-type tetragonal
structure (space group I4 _mm_), as confirmed through our neutron
diffraction study. Magnetic susceptibility, electrical resistivity and
specific heat data reveal a sharp and well-defined superconducting
transition at T_(c) = 2.16 ± 0.08 K. The low-temperature specific heat
data reveal that LaRhSi₃ is a weakly coupled bulk BCS superconductor and
has an s-wave singlet ground state with an isotropic energy gap of ∼0.3
meV, Δ₀/k_(B)T_(c) = 3.24. The specific heat data measured in an applied
magnetic field strongly indicate a type I behavior. Type I
superconductivity in this compound is also inferred from the
Ginzburg-Landau parameter, κ = 0.25. Various superconducting parameters,
including the electron-phonon coupling strength, penetration depth, and
coherence length, characterize LaRhSi₃ as a moderate dirty-limit
superconductor. A detailed study of the magnetic field-temperature
(H − T) phase diagram is presented and from a consideration of the free
energy, the thermodynamic critical field, H_(c0), is estimated to be
17.1 ± 0.1 mT, which is in very good agreement with that estimated from
the transverse field μSR measurement that gives H_(c0) = 17.2 ± 0.1 mT.
The transverse field μSR results are consistent with conventional type I
superconductivity in this compound. Further, the zero field μSR results
indicate that time-reversal symmetry is preserved when entering the
superconducting state, also supporting a singlet pairing superconducting
ground state in LaRhSi₃.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.83.064522

PACS number(s): 74.70.Ad, 74.25.Bt, 74.25.F-, 76.75.+i

## I Introduction

The inversion symmetry of a crystal structure plays a central role in
the formation of Cooper pairs in conventional superconductors.
Therefore, with the advent of superconductivity in CePt₃Si (Refs. [1]
and [2]), which lacks inversion symmetry along the c-axis,
noncentrosymmetric superconductors have evolved as a hot topic of
current research from both experimental and theoretical points of view.
The superconducting ground state of CePt₃Si presents many unusual
features due to the presence of an antisymmetric spin-orbit coupling
(ASOC) as a consequence of the lack of inversion symmetry, as is well
summarized in Ref. [2]. The solid solutions Li₂(PdPt)₃B (Refs. [3] and
[4]) and the intermetallic compounds CeRhSi₃ (Refs. [5] and [6]),
CeIrSi₃ (Ref. [7]), CeCoGe₃ (Ref. [8]), LaNiC₂ (Refs. [9] and [10]),
BaPtSi₃ (Ref. [11]), T₂Ga₉(T = Rh,Ir) (Refs. [12] and [13]), and
Mg₁₀Ir₁₉B₁₆ (Ref. [14]) are other major examples of known
noncentrosymmetric superconductors. Among these CeRhSi₃, CeIrSi₃ and
CeCoGe₃ show superconductivity only under the application of pressure,
while others have a superconducting ground state at ambient pressure.

The lack of inversion symmetry leads to a nonuniform lattice potential
which is sensed by the conduction electrons, resulting in a splitting of
spin-up and spin-down energy bands and hence a split Fermi surface. In a
conventional superconductor Cooper pairs are formed by two electrons
having a symmetric orbital state and an antisymmetric spin state, both
of which belong to the _same_ Fermi surface. In contrast, in
noncentrosymmetric superconductors the two electrons forming Cooper
pairs belong to two _different_ Fermi surfaces corresponding to the
spin-up and spin-down bands. This makes the physics of superconductivity
in noncentrosymmetric systems substantially different from that in
centrosymmetric systems to which most of the known superconductors
belong. From theoretical considerations, the lack of inversion symmetry
introduces an ASOC which removes the spin degeneracy of the conduction
band electrons and therefore in noncentrosymmetric superconductors the
spin and orbital parts of the Cooper pairs cannot be treated
independently. [15, 16, 17, 18, 19] Further, parity is no longer a good
quantum number and a parity mixing is expected, whereby the Cooper pairs
of noncentrosymmetric superconductors may contain an admixture of
spin-singlet and spin-triplet states.

The symmetry of the superconducting order parameter is very important
for understanding the nature of the superconducting ground state. Both
time-reversal symmetry and inversion symmetry are critical in
determining the parity states. While time-reversal invariance provides
the necessary conditions for spin-singlet pairing, for spin-triplet
pairing inversion symmetry is required additionally. In the absence of
inversion symmetry, spin-triplet pairing is forbidden: This leads to a
contradictory situation in the noncentrosymmetric heavy fermion
superconductor CePt₃Si₃, where the absence of paramagnetic limiting
favors spin-triplet pairing.[2] Therefore, a two-component order
parameter consisting of mixed spin-singlet and spin-triplet states seems
to be appropriate for CePt₃Si. However, despite extensive efforts by
many condensed-matter physicists working on noncentrosymmetric
superconductors, very little is known so far about the superconducting
order parameter in these systems. For example, key issues such as
whether they possess a common unusual pairing symmetry, and, if this is
the case, what is the nature of the superconducting-gap symmetry remain
unsettled. Further investigations on noncentrosymmetric superconductors
are therefore required to address such issues.

The Ce-based noncentrosymmetric superconductors CePt₃Si, CeRhSi₃,
CeIrSi₃, and CeCoGe₃ all are situated close to a magnetic quantum
critical point, where the presence of magnetic order and heavy fermion
behavior makes it more complicated to extract the physics of inversion
symmetry breaking and superconductivity. Therefore, a system that is
situated far away from a magnetic quantum critical point is predicted to
yield significant information and should enable a better understanding
of the problem in Ce-based noncentrosymmetric superconductors. From this
standpoint, the noncentrosymmetric superconductor LaRhSi₃ is an ideal
system for extensive investigations. We have therefore investigated
LaRhSi₃ with the expectation that it will provide information to enrich
our understanding of the relationship between the superconductivity and
the lack of symmetry in general. This will also provide comparative
results for the superconducting state of CeRhSi₃.

The preliminary report based on resistivity measurements by Lejay _et
al._ reveals an onset of superconductivity between 1.9 K and 2.7 K in
LaRhSi₃ (Ref. [20]). This compound forms in the BaNiSn₃-type tetragonal
structure (space group _14 mm_) in which Rh and Si atoms lack inversion
symmetry along the c-axis. Recently de Haas-van Alphen (dHvA) studies
have been carried out on single-crystal LaRhSi₃ to investigate the Fermi
surface properties[21, 22] which, together with electronic structure
calculations, predict the Fermi surface to consist of three
asymmetry-split sheets. dHvA results also show effective masses up to
1.6m_(e) for different frequency branches and spin-orbit coupling of the
order of 10² K in LaRhSi₃. In this paper we present our results obtained
from detailed investigations by neutron diffraction, magnetization,
resistivity, specific heat, and muon spin relaxation (μSR) measurements
on LaRhSi₃ and characterize it as a moderate dirty-limit s-wave weakly
coupled type I superconductor with an isotropic superconducting gap and
singlet pairing ground state.

## II Experimental

The polycrystalline sample of LaRhSi₃ was prepared by the standard arc
melting technique on a water-cooled copper hearth under an inert argon
atmosphere using the high-purity elements (99.9

## III Results and Discussion

The x-ray-diffraction data collected from a powdered sample of LaRhSi₃
at room temperature were analyzed by Rietveld refinement using fullprof
software. The crystal structure was confirmed to be BaNiSn₃-type
tetragonal structure (space group _14 mm_ with lattice parameters
a = 4.2694(03) A and c = 9.8357(10) A, in very good agreement with the
literature value.[20] For the best fit using the least-squares
refinement method χ² had the value of 1.24. No impurity phase was
detected in powder x-ray-diffraction data. To characterize the whole
bulk volume of the sample, we carried out a neutron diffraction study.
Figure 1 shows our neutron diffraction pattern of LaRhSi₃ recorded at
room temperature together with the structural Rietveld refinement
profile using the gsas software for the BaNiSn₃-type tetragonal
structure (space group _14 mm_) model. The results obtained from a
least-squares refinement of neutron diffraction are listed in Table 1.
During the refinement the occupancy of all the elements was kept fixed
as its variation was not improving the fit quality. The lattice
parameters are in perfect agreement with those obtained from the powder
x-ray diffraction, and the neutron results confirmed the single-phase
nature of the bulk sample.

Figure 2 shows the low-temperature magnetic susceptibility χ(T) data
measured at a field of 1.0 mT. Both the zero field cooled (ZFC) and
field cooled (FC) χ(T) data exhibit a large Meissner signal below 2.2 K,
demonstrating the onset of superconductivity (T_(c) = 2.16 K). An
estimate of the superconducting phase fraction using the ZFC
magnetization data yields a Meissner volume fraction of ∼100(±10)

indicating bulk superconductivity in this compound. The inset of Fig. 2
shows the isothermal magnetization as a function of magnetic field
measured at a constant temperature of 0.5 K. The hysteresis of the
magnetization curve follows a near-typical type I superconducting
behavior. The departure from the ideal step transition at critical field
can be attributed to the geometrical shape effect of our sample
(demagnetization factor). The temperature dependence of the
thermodynamic critical field H_(c)(T) determined from the low field
magnetization measurements at different temperatures is shown in Fig. 7,
together with that determined from the specific heat data. H_(c)(T) fits
well to the relation H_(c)(T) = H_(c0)[1 − (T/T_(c0))^(α)] with the
fitting parameters H_(c0) = 18.1 ± 0.2 mT and α = 1.85 ± 0.06 using the
value of T_(c0) = 2.16 K. The value of α = 1.85 thus obtained is very
close to the conventional value of α = 2. The H_(c)(T) data can also be
fitted to the conventional relation with α = 2, that is,
H_(c)(T) = H_(c0)^(*)[1 − (T/T_(c0))²], the resulting parameter
H_(c0)^(*) being 17.6 ± 0.2 mT. However, the quality of fit is better
with α = 1.85. Thus, from magnetization data, we estimate the
thermodynamic critical field to be 18.1 mT subject to the correction due
to the demagnetization factor.

Figure 3 shows the electrical resistivity data of LaRhSi₃ measured in
zero field. While the high-temperature resistivity exhibits metallic
behavior, at low temperature (despite the

Table 2: Measured and derived superconducting parameters of the
noncentrosymmetric superconductor LaRhSi₃.

Figure 8: (Color online) Zero field μSR spectra measured in longitudinal
geometry below (50 mK, squares) and above (2.5 K, circles) the
superconducting transition temperature. The solid line is the fit to the
Gaussian Kubo-Toyabe function as described in the text.

T_(c) reveals full initial asymmetry, while below T_(c) there is a
considerable reduction in the initial asymmetry. Further, the spectra in
5.0 mT can be described using a single Gaussian oscillatory component,
which gives a very similar frequency above and below T_(c). The loss of
initial asymmetry as observed in our μSR spectra of LaRhSi₃ can be
compared with that of LaNiSn, which also exhibits type I
superconductivity.[30] In LaNiSn there is also a considerable reduction
in the initial asymmetry at lower applied fields and then the asymmetry
recovers in higher applied field, which is very similar to what we have
seen in LaRhSi₃. However, if we use a different grouping method
[(F − αB)/(F + αB), where F and B are the forward and backward detectors
and α is a calibration constant] to analyze the 5.0 mT spectra at 0.2 K,
we observe an offset in asymmetry instead [see inset of Fig. 9(b)].

On the other hand, the spectra in a 15.0 mT field clearly reveal the
presence of two oscillatory terms. The spectra are best described by two
oscillatory functions each damped with a Gaussian, that is,

$$Gz(t)=\sum_{i=1}^{2}A_{i}\cos(\omega_{i}t+\varphi)\exp\left(-\frac{\sigma_{i}^ {2}t^{2}}{2}\right),$$
(2)

where A_(i) is the partial asymmetry (A₁ + A₂ = A), σ_(i) is the
relaxation rate, and ω_(i) = γ_(μ)H_(i) is the central frequency for the
respective components, γ_(μ) being the gyromagnetic ratio. Solid lines
in the spectra show the best fit with this model, the fit parameters
(for spectra at 0.2 K) are A₁ = 0.115, σ₁ = 0.02μs⁻¹, and ω₁ = 2.02 MHz
for component 1 and A₂ = 0.096, σ₂ = 0.08μs⁻¹, and ω₂ = 2.28 MHz for
component 2. From these parameters, we obtain the value of the internal
magnetic field and weight fraction, which are 15.0 mT and 54.5

It is worth mentioning here that normally one would expect the μSR
spectra to show the Kubo-Toyabe behavior associated with nuclear fields;
however, the data reduction used, which rotates the spectra, effectively
removes this contribution. We have also analyzed the μSR data of 5 mT at
0.2 K with a different method as mentioned above and the resultant
spectra are shown in the inset of Fig. 9(b). With this method an offset
is observed in μSR asymmetry for T = 0.2 K, B = 5 mT (Meissner state).
The spectra in the inset of Fig. 9(b) were fitted using the sum of Eqs.
(1) and (2), but with only one component in Eq. (2). The decay is very
weak because of the small nuclear moments. The quality of the fit can be
seen from the figure. The maximum entropy spectra for the 5 mT data at
0.2 K is shown in Fig. 10. As is expected for a sample in Meissner
state, we observe an increase in P(B) near B = 0. However, we do not see
increase in P(B) near B = 0 from Meissner volume in the intermediate
state (for T = 0.2 K, B = 15 mT) of sample. We suspect that it is due to
the effect of demagnetizing field, which is significant for a
polycrystalline sample.

In Fig. 10 we have also plotted the maximum entropy spectra for 15.0 mT
at 0.2 K. Two sharp peaks in the maximum entropy spectra clearly
demonstrate that the two oscillatory components of our model are at
significantly different frequencies, one at ∼15.0 mT and the other at a
somewhat higher value of ∼17.2 mT. For a type II superconductor the
establishment of a flux line lattice shows that the average field shifts
to a lower frequency,[31] whereas for a type I superconductor while
entering the intermediate state (the regions of the sample are partially
in normal and partially in superconducting states) the regions which are
normal have an internal field which is equivalent to critical field.
Thus, μSR data give us a thermodynamic critical field
H_(c0) = 17.2 ± 0.1 mT in good agreement with the magnetization and
specific heat data.

## IV Conclusion

We have examined the physical properties of the noncentrosymmetric
superconductor LaRhSi₃ by detailed magnetization, specific heat, and
electrical resistivity measurements

Figure 10: (Color online) The maximum entropy spectra for (a) 15.0 mT at
0.2 K and (b) 5.0 mT at 0.2 K. Inset in (b) shows an expanded view to
show the increase in P(B) near B = 0.

Figure 9: (Color online) The transverse field μSR spin precession
signals recorded in transverse applied magnetic fields at (a) 0.2 K and
15 mT (intermediate state), (b) 0.2 K and 5 mT (Meissner state), (c) 2.5
K and 15 mT (normal state), and (d) 2.5 K and 5 mT (normal state). The
solid lines are the fit to two oscillatory damped Gaussian functions for
15 mT (only one oscillatory function for 5.0 mT) as described in the
text. The inset in (b) shows the 0.2 K and 5 mT spectra analyzed by the
different method discussed in the text.

and found a sharp superconducting transition at T_(c) = 2.16 K. While
the zero field specific heat data provide evidence of bulk BCS
superconductivity in a weak coupling regime, the specific heat data
measured under the applied magnetic field strongly reflect a type I
superconductivity in this compound, as is also revealed by the field
dependence of the magnetization. Superconducting parameters estimated
within the framework of BCS theory from the electronic specific heat
coefficient and residual resistivity not only provide conclusive
evidence of type I superconductivity, but also specify that LaRhSi₃ is a
moderately dirty-limit superconductor. The microscopic study of
superconductivity in LaRhSi₃ using μSR confirms conventional s-wave
singlet pairing and a type I superconductivity with a thermodynamic
critical field of 17.2 mT. An ASOC that is not sizable enough to dictate
the superconducting properties in zero field, becomes reinforced in
magnetic field leading to an exponential evolution of γ with magnetic
field and a field-dependent anisotropic order parameter in the
superconducting state is speculated. Further investigations, preferably
on single crystals of LaRhSi₃, would be highly desirable to understand
better the microscopic details of the superconductivity in this
compound.

###### Acknowledgements.

We would like to thank W. Kockelmann for his assistance in collecting
the neutron diffraction data on ROTAX at the ISIS Facility and F. Pratt
for interesting discussion. Authors V.K.A., A.D.H., and D.T.A. would
like to acknowledge financial assistance from CMPC-STFC Grant No.
CMPC-09108. A.M.S. acknowledges financial assistance from the SA-NRF
(Grant No. 2072956).

## References

* [1] E. Bauer, G. Hilscher, H. Michor, C. Paul, E. W. Scheidt, A.
Gribanov, Y. Seropegin, H. Noel, M. Sigrist, and P. Rogl, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **92**, 027003 (2004). * [2] E. Bauer, H. Kaldarar, A. Prokofiev,
E. Royanian, A. Amato, J. Sereni, W. Bramer-Escamilla, and I. Bonalde,
J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **76**, 051009 (2007). * [3] K. Togano, P. Badica, Y.
Nakamori, S. Orimo, H. Takeya, and K. Hirata, Phys. Rev. Lett. **93**,
247004 (2004). * [4] H. Q. Yuan, D. F. Agterberg, N. Hayashi, P. Badica,
D. Vandervelde, K. Togano, M. Sigrist, and M. B. Salamon, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **97**, 017006 (2006). * [5] N. Kimura, K. Ito, K. Saitoh, Y.
Umeda, H. Aoki, and T. Terashima, Phys. Rev. Lett. **95**, 247004
(2005). * [6] N. Kimura, Y. Muro, and H. Aoki, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn.
**76**, 051010 (2007). * [7] I. Sugitani, Y. Okuda, H. Shishido, T.
Yamada, A. Thamizhavel, E. Yamamoto, T. D. Matsuda, Y. Haga, T.
Takeuchi, R. Settai, and Y. Onuki, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **75**, 043703
(2006). * [8] R. Settai, I. Sugitani, Y. Okuda, A. Thamizhavel, M.
Nakashima, Y. Onuki, and H. Harima, J. Magn. Magn. Mater. **310**, 844
(2007). * [9] V. K. Pecharsky, L. L. Miller, and K. A. Gschneidner,
Phys. Rev. B **58**, 497 (1998). * [10] A. D. Hillier, J. Quintanilla,
and R. Cywinski, Phys. Rev. Lett. **102**, 117007 (2009). * [11] E.
Bauer, R. T. Khan, H. Michor, E. Royanian, A. Grytsiv, N.
Melnychenko-Koblyuk, P. Rogl, D. Reith, R. Podloucky, E.-W. Scheidt, W.
Wolf, and M. Marsman, Phys. Rev. B **80**, 064504 (2009). * [12] T.
Shibayama, M. Nohara, H. A. Kotari, Y. Okamoto, Z. Hiroi, and H. Takagi,
J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **76**, 073708 (2007). * [13] K. Wakui, S. Akutagawa,
N. Kase, K. Kawashima, T. Muranaka, Y. Iwahori, J. Abe, and J. Akimitsu,
J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **78**, 034710 (2009). * [14] I. Bonalde, R. L.
Ribeiro, W. Bramer-Escamilla, G. Mu, and H. H. Wen, Phys. Rev. B **79**,
052506 (2009). * [15] V. M. Edelstein, Sov. Phys. JETP **68**, 1244
(1989). * [16] L. P. Gor’kov and E. I. Rashba, Phys. Rev. Lett. **87**,
037004 (2001). * [17] K. V. Samokhin, E. S. Zijlstra, and S. K. Bose,
Phys. Rev. B **69**, 094514 (2004). * [18] P. A. Frigeri, D. F.
Agterberg, A. Koga, and M. Sigrist, Phys. Rev. Lett. **92**, 097001
(2004). * [19] S. Fujimoto, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **76**, 051008 (2007). *
[20] P. Lejay, I. Higashi, B. Chevalier, J. Etourneau, and P.
Hagenmuller, Mater. Res. Bull. **19**, 115 (1984). * [21] N. Kimura, Y.
Umeda, T. Asai, T. Terashima, and H. Aoki, Physica B **294-295**, 280
(2001). * [22] T. Terashima, M. Kimata, S. Uji, T. Sugawara, N. Kimura,
H. Aoki, and H. Harima, Phys. Rev. B **78**, 205107 (2008). * [23] B.
Muhlschlegel, Z. Phys. **155**, 313 (1959). * [24] N. R. Werthamer, E.
Helfand, and P. C. Hohenberg, Phys. Rev. **147**, 295 (1966). * [25] A.
M. Clogston, Phys. Rev. Lett. **9**, 266 (1962). * [26] B. S.
Chandrasekhar, Appl. Phys. Lett. **1**, 7 (1962). * [27] K. Maki, Phys.
Rev. **148**, 362 (1966). * [28] W. McMillan, Phys. Rev. **167**, 331
(1968). * [29] T. P. Orlando, E. J. McNiff, Jr., S. Foner, and M. R.
Beasley, Phys. Rev. B **19**, 4545 (1979). * [30] A. Drew, S. L. Lee, F.
Y. Ogrin, D. Charalambous, N. Bancroft, D. Mck Paul, T. Takabatake, and
C. Baines, Physica B **374-375**, 270 (2006). * [31] S. L. Lee, S. H.
Kilcoyne, and R. Cywinski, _Muon Science (Muons in Physics Chemistry and
Materials)_ (Institute of Physics Publishing, Bristol/Philadelphia,
1999).
