# Water-induced superconductivity in SrFe₂As₂

Hidenori Hiramatsu,^(1,)1 Takayoshi Katase,² Toshio Kamiya,^(1, 2)
Masahiro Hirano,^(1, 3) and Hideo Hosono^(1, 2, 3)

¹ERATO-SORST Japan Science and Technology Agency, in Frontier Research
Center, Tokyo Institute of Technology, S2-6F East, Mailbox S2-13, 4259
Nagatsuta-cho, Midori-ku, Yokohama 226-8503, Japan

²Materials and Structures Laboratory, Tokyo Institute of Technology,
Mailbox R3-1, 4259 Nagatsuta-cho, Midori-ku, Yokohama 226-8503, Japan

³Frontier Research Center, Tokyo Institute of Technology, S2-6F East,
Mailbox S2-13, 4259 Nagatsuta-cho, Midori-ku, Yokohama 226-8503, Japan

Footnote 1: 10.1103/PhysRevB.80.052501

###### Abstract

It has been considered that FeAs-based high-transition temperature
(high-$T_{\rm c}$) superconductors need electron or hole doping by
aliovalent-ion substitution or large off stoichiometry in order to
induce superconductivity. We report that exposure of undoped SrFe₂As₂
epitaxial thin films to water vapor induces a superconducting
transition. These films exhibit a higher onset $T_{\rm c}$ (25 K) and
larger magnetic field anisotropy than those of cobalt-doped SrFe₂As₂
epitaxial films, suggesting that the mechanism for the observed
superconducting transition differs from that of the aliovalent-ion-doped
SrFe₂As₂. The present finding provides an interesting approach to induce
superconductivity with a higher $T_{\rm c}$ in FeAs-based
superconductors.

D01: 10.1103/PhysRevB.80.052501

Discovery of an Fe-based layered superconductor, F-doped LaFeAsO
rekindled extensive researches on superconducting materials.[1] Since
then, four types of material systems have been known to be
superconductors, which are _Re_FeAsO (_Re_ = rare earths),[1, 2,
3]AeFe₂As₂ (_Ae_ = alkaline earths),[4]AFeAs (A=alkali metal),[5] and
FeSe (Ref. [6]) phases, and the maximum transition temperature
($T_{\rm c}$) has reached 56 K in Th-doped GdFeAsO.[3] Each of the
Fe-based compounds has layered crystal structures that possess FeAs (or
FeSe) layers composed of edge-sharing FeAs₄ (FeSe₄) tetrahedra, implying
that the two dimensionality and the local FeAs (FeSe) structures play an
important role in inducing the superconductivity. Mostly, undoped parent
phases of these materials exhibit structural phase transitions, which
accompany antiferromagnetic ordering transitions, at low temperatures,
but do not exhibit superconductivity at least down to 2 K.[6, 7, 8, 9,
10] Carrier doping by aliovalent-ion substitution[1, 2, 3, 4, 11, 12, 4]
or introducing off stoichiometry[5, 6, 14, 15] suppresses the structure
and magnetic transitions and induces superconductivity. In addition to
the carrier doping, high-pressure-induced superconductivity have been
reported in AeFe₂As₂.[16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21] Further, there has been
one report on ambient-pressure superconductivity on nominally undoped
AeFe₂As₂ (Ref. [22]); however, it is considered that the
superconductivity in the nominally undoped cases is caused by lattice
distortion in their SrFe₂As₂ crystals. These results indicate that
superconductivity in AeFe₂As₂ is sensitive to an external stress, a
sample preparation condition, and a post-treatment condition; it in turn
suggests that we may find a different approach to attain
high-$T_{\rm c}$ superconductivity in the FeAs-based compounds.

In this Brief Report, we report on a different type of superconducting
transition in undoped SrFe₂As₂ in which exposure of SrFe₂As₂ epitaxial
thin films to water vapor invokes a superconducting transition at an
onset transition temperature ($T_{\rm c}^{\rm onset}$) of 25 K. It would
be worth noting that water-intercalated superconductivity is known in
some layered crystals such as $A_{\rm t}$(H₂O),TS (A=Na, K, Rb, and Cs;
T=Nb and Ta; $T_{\rm c}$=5.5 K),[23] Na_(x)CoO₂-γH₂O ($T_{\rm c}$= 5
K),[24] and Na_(x)(H₂O)_(y)(MS)_(1 + y)(TaS)₂) (M=Sn, Pb, and Sb;
$T_{\rm c}$ =4 K).[25] These are explained by enhanced two
dimensionality in connection with the expansion of the interlayer
distances induced by the water intercalation. On the contrary, the
SrFe₂As₂ epitaxial films exhibit the superconducting transition although
the interlayer distance (i.e., the c-axis length of the unit cell) is
shrunken by the exposure to water vapor. In addition, the $T_{\rm c}$
and the superconductivity anisotropy are different largely from
aliovalent-ion-doped SrFe₂As₂. These discrepancies imply that a
different mechanism controls the emergence of the superconducting
transition in SrFe₂As₂ by water exposure.

Epitaxial thin films of undoped SrFe₂As₂ (thickness ∼200 nm) were grown
on mixed perovskite (La,Sr)(Al,Ta)O₅ (001) single-crystal substrates by
pulsed laser deposition[26, 27] using undoped SrFe₂As₂ sintered disks as
the targets at the substrate temperature of ∼700 degC in vacuum of ∼10-5
Pa. Crystalline quality and orientation were examined by high-resolution
x-ray diffraction (XRD, radiation: Cu Kα₁ and apparatus: ATX-G, Rigaku).
We confirmed that the intensity and width of diffraction peaks and
rocking curves, which are the measure of the crystalline quality and
orientation, were comparable to those of the epitaxial films of
cobalt-doped SrFe₂As₂ that exhibited superconducting transitions at
$T_{\rm c}^{\rm onset}$=20 K.[27] Resistivity (ρ)-temperature (T) curves
were measured using a physical properties measurement system (Quantum
Design) in a vacuum from 2 to 300 K under external magnetic fields (H)
varied up to 9 T.

The solid line in Fig. 1(a) shows the ρ-T curve of the virgin SrFe₂As₂
epitaxial film, which was measured immediately after taken out from the
deposition chamber. A resistivity anomaly corresponding to a structural
phase transition and an antiferromagnetic ordering is observed at
$T_{\rm anom}$ =204 K, which is almost the same as those reported
previously for undoped bulk samples.[28, 29] No superconducting
transition is observed for the virgin film. On the other hand, after
exposing the virgin film to an ambient atmosphere at room temperature
with the relative humidities of 40-70 RH

Figures 1(c) and 1(d) show magnetic anisotropy of the air-exposed film.
$T_{\rm c}$ was shifted to lower temperatures with increasing H for both
the H directions parallel to the c axis ($H_{\rm lc}$) and the a axis
($H_{\rm lc}$). Superconducting transitions survived at ≤7 K for
$H_{\rm lc}$ and ≤16 K for $H_{\rm lc}$ even when H was raised up to 9
T, indicating that the upper critical magnetic fields are far above 9 T.
It is observed that $T_{\rm c}$ is more sensitive to the $H_{\rm lc}$
than to the $H_{\rm lc}$. It would be worth noting that the large
anisotropy of $T_{\rm c}$ in the air-exposed SrFe₂As₂ epitaxial films is
rather different from that of the cobalt-doped SrFe₂As₂ epitaxial films
reported in Refs. [27] and [30], which showed almost isotropic
behaviors; the large anisotropy is more similar to that reported for the
ReFeAsO system.[31]

Figure 2(a) shows out-of-plane XRD patterns around the SrFe₂As₂ 002
diffraction. It shows that exposure to air for 6 h broadened and upper
shifted the SrFe₂As₂ 002 diffraction peak. It accompanies formation of a
small amount of an Fe₂As impurity phase, which is confirmed by an
additional broad peak at 2 θ∼ 14.9^(∘). This observation indicates that
the c-axis length of the SrFe₂As₂ phase was decreased from 1.233 nm in
the virgin film [this value is slightly smaller (−0.4

Figure 2: (Color online) (a) ω-coupled 2 θ scan XRD patterns around 002
diffraction of SrFe₂As₂ epitaxial films at room temperature. The circles
and squares show the virgin film and the film exposed to air for 6 h,
respectively. The lines are the deconvolution of the XRD patterns. (b)
Williamson-Hall plots of 00l diffractions.

Figure 1: (Color online) (a) Variation in ρ-T curves as a function of
air-exposure time for SrFe₂As₂ epitaxial films as grown (virgin, solid
line), exposed to air for 2 h (dashed line), 4 h (dotted line), and 6 h
(dotted-dashed line). (b) Extended view of (a) between 2 and 40 K. [(c)
and (d)] Anisotropy of superconducting transition of the film exposed to
air for 6 h under magnetic fields parallel to the (c) c axis
($H_{\rm lc}$) and (d) a axis ($H_{\rm lc}$) at $H_{\rm lc,a}$ from 0 to
9 T.

and 22. The intercepts at the vertical axis in Fig. 2(b) provide the
crystallite heights D, which were estimated to be 680 nm for the virgin
film and 80 nm for the air-exposed film. The former value overestimates
the crystallite height because the film thickness is thinner, 190 nm.
This value is, however, reasonable because the intersect value
approaches zero for a larger crystallite size in the Williamson-Hall
plot, which gives a larger error. Therefore, this result indicates that
the crystallites in the virgin film are single domain in height. The
value of the crystallite height for the air-exposed film is more
accurate because the intersect value is much larger than zero, and the
obtained crystallite size (80 nm) is consistent with the film thickness
(190 nm). It safely concludes the air exposure decreased the crystallite
height, which is the major origin of the broadening in the diffraction
peak discussed above. It is possible to estimate the change in the
volume of the SrFe₂As₂ phase by comparing integrated diffraction
intensities of the SrFe₂As₂ 002 diffractions, which were estimated from
the intensities and widths of the diffraction peaks and the rocking
curve peaks. We observed that the air exposure reduced the peak
intensity to ∼20

To determine the origin of the appearance of the superconducting
transition induced by the air exposure, we investigated the effects of
exposure to the air constituents separately (Fig. 3). Exposure to a dry
nitrogen gas (purity: 6N, dew point: ≤−80 ^(∘)C, and pressure: 300 Torr)
for 24 h at room temperature did not induce any change [Fig. 3(a)],
proving that dry N₂ is inert for undoped SrF₂As₂ films at least at room
temperature. Exposure to a dry oxygen gas (6N, ≤−80 ^(∘)C, and 300 Torr)
and a dry carbon dioxide gas (4N, ≤−76 ^(∘)C, and 760 Torr) for 24 h at
room temperature [Figs. 3(b) and 3(c)] gave small changes in the ρ
values but did not induce a superconducting transition at least down to
2 K. The small increase in ρ in the dry oxygen gas and the small
decrease in the dry carbon dioxide gas suggest some doping effects by
these molecules. Figure 3(d) shows the effect of water vapor (a dew
point was +13 ^(∘)C, 760 Torr, generated from distilled water with a dry
nitrogen gas as a carrier gas). A clear superconducting transition was
observed at $T_{\rm c}^{\rm onset}$=25 K, which is the same temperature
as that of the air-exposed film. Therefore, we conclude that the
superconducting transition is induced by exposure to H₂O-related species
to the SrFe₂As₂ films. As clarified by the XRD study, the exposure to
H₂O-related species accompanies the shrinkage of the _c_-axis length of
the SrFe₂As₂ lattice and the appearance of the Fe₂As phase. The effect
of the Fe₂As phase is excluded from the origin of the superconducting
transition because no superconducting transition has been reported for
Fe₂As [reported to be an antiferromagnet with the Neel temperature of
353 K (Ref. [33])] as far as we know. Therefore, we consider that the
shrinkage of the c axis would closely be related to the appearance of
the superconducting transition.

The crystal structure[29, 34] in Fig. 4(a) tells that it has two large
interstitial sites; one is the _I₉_ site surrounded by four

Figure 4: (Color online) (a) Crystal structure of SrFe₂As₂ with
ThCr₂Si₂-type structure. The box indicates the unit cell. [(b) and (c)]
Expanded views of the interstitial sites. (b) _I₉_, which is surrounded
by four As, four Fe, and one Sr, and (c) _I₆_, which is surrounded by
four Sr and two As.

Figure 3: (Color online) Changes in ρ-_T_ curves of SrFe₂As₂ epitaxial
films under exposure to various atmospheres. The dashed lines show the
data of the virgin films and the solid lines show those of the films
exposed to (a) dry nitrogen for 24 h, (b) dry oxygen for 24 h, (c) dry
carbon dioxide for 24 h, and (d) water vapor (the dew point=+13 ^(∘)C)
for 2 h.

As, four Fe, and one Sr [Fig. 4(b)] and the other the I₆ site surrounded
by four Sr and two As [Fig. 4(c)] in which the sizes of the free spaces
(0.15 nm in the a-b planes) are close to that of an O²⁻ ion (0.14 nm).
Preliminarily first-principles structure relaxation calculations [35]
showed that incorporation of an H₂O molecule at the I₀ or I₆ sites
formed quantum-mechanically (meta-) stable structures but it moved the
molecule from the interstitial sites to interlayer sites and expanded
the c-axis length significantly, which is similar to the intercalation
cases such as A_(x)(H₂O)_(y)TS, Na_(x)CoO₂⋅γH₂O, and
Na₂(H₂O)_(y)(MS)_(1 + δ)(TaS) (Refs. [23, 24, 25]); it is inconsistent
with the observed shrinkage of the c-axis length observed above.
Incorporation of an OH or an oxygen atom at the I₉ site or the I₆ site
found the stable positions at the symmetric positions near the centers
of the coordination polyhedra. Those at the I₉ site did not expand the c
axis largely (the expansion in the c-axis length is as small as 0.01 nm
for the oxygen case) while the latter expanded it by 0.10 nm because the
interatomic distance between the two As atoms are only 0.35 nm and is
not large enough to incorporate an oxygen ion. These results suggest
that the most probable case among them is the incorporation of oxygen
atoms at the I₉ sites but any of these cases appears not to be able to
explain the shrinkage of the c-axis length. Another possibility would be
the formation of Sr vacancies by removing the Sr ions through a
reaction, e.g., SrFe₂As₂+2H₂O - ≫ SrFe₂As₂⋅∇_(S+)Sr(OH)₂+H₂, which may
likely occur because an Ae element easily reacts with H₂O to form a
hydroxide.

In summary, we have found that water vapor induces a superconducting
transition in undoped SrFe₂As₂ epitaxial films at an ambient pressure.
The $T_{\rm c}^{\rm onset}$ was 25 K, which is higher than that of the
cobalt-doped epitaxial films. The exposure to water vapor reduced the
c-axis length of the SrFe₂As₂ phase as a primary effect. The induction
of the superconductivity can be explained by the chemical
pressure-induced consequently. In this Brief Report, it is concluded
that the superconducting transition originates from the SrFe₂As₂ phase
because SrFe₂As₂ is the major phase in the air-exposed film, $T_{\rm c}$
is higher but similar to those reported on cobalt-doped SrFe₂As₂, and no
other superconducting phase was detected by the XRD measurements.
However, we cannot exclude possibility that a subproduct of the reaction
between the SrFe₂As₂ film and H₂O causes the superconducting
transitions. Even though, such a case will lead to more interesting
discovery because the remaining possible origins are Fe₂As, FeAs, and an
amorphous phase that was not detected by XRD measurements but any of
them has not been reported to be a superconductor. Although further
study is needed to clarify the origin of the superconductor and/or the
doping mechanism, the present finding provides not only an interesting
insight into understanding superconducting transitions in undoped
AeFe₂As₂ but also a clue to obtaining higher $T_{\rm c}$ by a doping
method such as chemical modification.

## References

* [*] J. Kamihara, T. Watanabe, M. Hirano, and H. Hosono, J. Am. Chem.
Soc. **130**, 3296 (2008). * [2] X.-H. Chen _et al._, Nature (London)
**453**, 761 (2008). * [3] C. Wang _et al._, EPL **83**, 67006 (2008). *
[4] M. Rotter, M. Tegel, and D. Johrendt, Phys. Rev. Lett. **101**,
107006 (2008). * [5] X. C. Wang _et al._, Solid State Commun. **148**,
538 (2008). * [6] F.-C. Hsu _et al._, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A.
**105**, 14262 (2008). * [7] T. Nomura _et al._, Supercond. Sci.
Technol. **21**, 125028 (2008). * [8] C. de la Cruz _et al._, Nature
(London) **453**, 899 (2008). * [9] M. Rotter _et al._, Phys. Rev. B
**78**, 020503(R) (2008). * [10] Q. Huang _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**101**, 257003 (2008). * [11] H. H. Wen _et al._, EPL **82**, 17009
(2008). * [12] A. S. Sefat _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **78**, 104505
(2008). * [13] A. Leithe-Jasper, W. Schnelle, C. Geibel, and H. Rosner,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **101**, 207004 (2008). * [14] Z.-A. Ren _et al._, EPL
**83**, 17002 (2008). * [15] H. Kito, H. Eisaki, and A. Iyo, J. Phys.
Soc. Jpn. **77**, 063707 (2008). * [16] M. S. Torikachvili, S. L.
Bud’ko, N. Ni, and P. C. Canfield, Phys. Rev. Lett. **101**, 057006
(2008). * [17] M. S. Torikachvili, S. L. Bud’ko, N. Ni, and P. C.
Canfield, Phys. Rev. B **78**, 104527 (2008). * [18] P. L. Alireza _et
al._, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter **21**, 012208 (2009). * [19] K. Igawa
_et al._, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **78**, 025001 (2009). * [20] H. Kotegawa,
H. Sugawara, and H. Tou, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **78**, 013709 (2008). *
[21] E. Colombier, S. L. Bud’ko, N. Ni, and P. C. Canfield, Phys. Rev. B
**79**, 224518 (2009). * [22] S. R. Saha, N. P. Butch, K. Kirshenbaum,
J. Paglione, and P. Y. Zavalij, Phys. Rev. Lett. **103**, 037005
(2009). * [23] A. Lerf, F. Semetz, W. Biberacher, and R. Schollhorn,
Mater. Res. Bull. **14**, 797 (1979). * [24] K. Takada _et al._, Nature
(London) **422**, 53 (2003). * [25] N. Katayama, M. Nohara, F. Sakai,
and H. Takagi, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **74**, 851 (2005). * [26] H.
Hiramatsu, T. Katase, T. Kamiya, M. Hirano, and H. Hosono, Appl. Phys.
Lett. **93**, 162504 (2008). * [27] H. Hiramatsu, T. Katase, T. Kamiya,
M. Hirano, and H. Hosono, Appl. Phys. Express **1**, 101702 (2008). *
[28] C. Krellner _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **78**, 100504(R) (2008). * [29]
M. Tegel _et al._, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter **20**, 452201 (2008). *
[30] S. A. Baily _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **102**, 117004 (2009). *
[31] Y. Jia _et al._, Appl. Phys. Lett. **93**, 032503 (2008). * [32] G.
K. Williamson and W. H. Hall, Acta Metall. **1**, 22 (1953). * [33] H.
Katsuraki and N. Achiwa, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **21**, 2238 (1966). * [34]
M. Pfisterer and G. Nagorsen, Z. Naturforsch. B **35**, 703 (1980). *
[35] Variable-cell relaxation calculations were performed based on the
density-functional theory at the generalized gradient approximation
+U(GGA+U) level using the vasp code [G. Kresse and J. Furthmuller, Phys.
Rev. B **54**, 11169 (1996)] with a projector-augmented plain wave
method; [ P. E. Blochl, _ibid._**50**, 17953 (1994); G. Kresse and D.
Joubert, _ibid._**59**, 1758 (1999)] and PBE96 functionals.
