Far-infrared reflectivity along the c axis in La2CuO4+_d_,
La1.89Ca1.11Cu2O6+_d_s_, and Nd2CuO4-_x_F_x_ single crystals

H. Shibata and T. Yamada

NTT Basic Research Laboratories, 3-1 Morinosato Wakamiya, Atsugi-shi,
Kanagawa 243-01, Japan

22 August 1997

###### Abstract

The far-infrared reflectivity along the c axis in La2CuO4+_d_,
La1.89Ca1.11Cu2O6+_d_ (double pyramidal planes), and Nd2CuO4-_x_F_x
(_T_’ phase) single crystals is measured down to 9 cm-1. All the
insulating spectra in the normal states change to show a sharp plasma
edge in the superconducting state, which confirms our earlier report of
sphere resonance of powder samples [Shibata and Yamada, Phys. Rev. B
**54**, 7500 (1996)]. The edge of La1.89Ca1.11Cu2O6+_d_ is broader than
that of La2CuO4+_d_ and Nd2CuO4-_x_F_x_, indicating the existence of a
large number of unpaired carriers in the superconducting state. The
obtained _c_-axis penetration depth _l_c_ is discussed based on the
Josephson-coupled layer model. [S0163-1829(97)51746-2]

It is well known that the electronic structure of high-temperature
copper oxide superconductors has a strong anisotropy, which is typically
shown as the metallic temperature dependence of r_(b) and the
semiconductive temperature dependence of r_(c). In optical measurement,
almost-insulating infrared spectra are observed along the c axis in the
normal state, in contrast to the metal-like spectra along the _ab_
plane. In the superconducting state, a sharp reflectivity edge is
observed along the c axis in the far-infrared region. The reflectivity
edge is regarded as the plasma edge of condensed carriers in the
superconducting state, and the frequency of the edge is determined by
the zero crossing of r_(c)(_u_). The plasma edge has been observed in
La2-_x_Sr_CuO4, YBa2Cu3O6+_d_, YBa2Cu4O8, and Pb2Sr2(Y,Ca)Cu3O8 from the
_c_-axis reflectivity measurement of single crystals.1-5 We have
previously measured the sphere resonance of various high-_T__c_ powder
samples and have shown that the plasma also exists in
Bi1.89Pb0.38Sr2Ca2Cu3.1O9 (Bi2223), La1.82Ca1.18Cu2O6+_d_,
(Nd0.66Sr0.205Co1.135)2CuO4 (_T_’s phase),
(Ba0.56Sr0.42)Cu1.102+_d_(CO3)0.99 (copper-oxycarbonate),
Pr1.85Ca0.15CuO4, and Nd2CuO4-_x_F_x_, which means that the plasma
exists in most high-_T__c_ cuprates.6 However, for a detailed
investigation of their properties, measurement using single crystals is
necessary.

Although it seems quite difficult to grow single crystals of Bi2223,
_T_’ phase, and copper-oxycarbonate,7 high-quality single-crystal growth
of La1.89Ca1.18Cu2O6+_d_ and Nd2CuO4-_x_F_x have been reported.8-10 The
present paper first reports the measurements of far-infrared
reflectivity along the c axis in La1.89Ca1.11Cu2O6+_d_ and
Nd2CuO4-_x_F_x single crystals down to 9 cm-1. We also report the
measurement of La2CuO4+_d_ single crystal, which did not show a plasma
edge down to 30 cm-1.11 All the spectra show insulating behavior in the
normal states, and they change to show a sharp plasma edge in the
superconducting state. The plasma is identified as the Josephson plasma
oscillation in the weakly Josephson-coupled layer superconductors, and
the _c_-axis penetration depth _l_c_ is discussed based on this model.

Footnote 8: 1997 The American Physical Society

Large single crystals of La2CuO4+_d_ with the dimensions 1x4x4 mm3 were
grown by the traveling-solvent-floating-zone (TSFZ) method and oxidized
by high oxygen pressure annealing.12 The sample showed a bulk
superconductivity with T_(c) = 33 K from the magnetic susceptibility
measurement, as shown in Fig. 1. It has been revealed that there are two
superconducting phases in La2CuO4+_d_, one having d = 0.11-0.12 with
T_(c) = 40-45 K and the other d = 0.06-0.08 with T_(c) = 32-34 K.13
Although we did not determine the oxygen content, T_(c) = 33 K suggests
that the excess oxygen content d of the sample is about 0.06. The
La1.89Ca1.11Cu2O6+_d_ crystals were grown by the conventional CuO flux
method and also oxidized by high oxygen smearing.8 They showed a bulk
superconductivity with T_(c) = 47 K as shown in Fig. 1. The typical
sample size was 3x3x0.5 mm3. Nd2CuO4-_x_F_x_ crystals with the
dimensions 4x4x0.4 mm3 were also grown by the CuO flux method.10 These
were deoxidized in Ar atmosphere. As shown in Fig. 1, they showed a bulk
superconductivity with T_(c) = 21 K.

Footnote 10: 1997 The American Physical Society

The polarized reflectivity measurements for **E**∥_c_ were carried out
down to 9 cm-1 using a rapid scan interferometer with a Si bolometer
operated at 1.5 and 4 K.6 In order to obtain sufficient size for the
far-infrared measurement along **E**∥_c_, three La1.89Ca1.11Cu2O6+_d_s_
crystals and ten

Figure 1: Magnetic susceptibilities in La2CuO4+_d_,
La1.89Ca1.11Cu2O6+_d_, and Nd2CuO4−_x_F_x_. The measurements were
performed under a magnetic field of 5 G, after cooling in zero field,
without correction for demagnetization.

Nd₂CuO_(4 − x)F_(x) crystals were stacked and bonded, and the side of
each stack was polished. After the measurement of the spectra, the
sample was coated _in situ_ with gold and then the reference spectra
were measured.[2] The spectra were calibrated to room-temperature data,
which was measured between 250 and 20 000 cm⁻¹ using a microscope for
unbonded crystals.[14, 15]

Figure 2(a) shows the reflectivity spectra for **E∥**_c_ of
La₂CuO_(4 + δ). The room-temperature spectra agree well with earlier
results for undoped La₂CuO₄. However, as the temperature decreases, a
very weak structure not observed in the undoped sample appears just
below the phonon peak at 512 cm⁻¹. This structure has been more clearly
observed in electrochemically oxidized La₂CuO_(4 + δ) with T_(c)=40 K
and δ=0.12, and is attributed to the splitting of the apical oxygen
vibration mode along the c axis due to the incorporation of additional
oxygen.[11] The observed weaker structure can be explained by the
smaller oxygen content in the sample. The reflectivity below 50 cm⁻¹
slightly decreases as the temperature decreases, which corresponds to
the semiconducting temperature dependence of the dc conductivity. The
insulating spectra in the normal state change to show a sharp
reflectivity edge in the superconducting state, which is identified as
the plasma edge of condensed carriers. As shown in Fig. 2(b), the real
part of the dielectric function ϵ₁(ω), which is calculated by the
Kramers-Kronig transformation, crosses zero below T_(c) .

Similar spectra for **E∥**_c_ are also observed in
La_(1.88)Ca_(1.11)Cu₂O_(6 + δ), as shown in Fig. 3(a). The normal-state
reflectivity is dominated by three strong optical phonons at 146, 256,
and 512 cm⁻¹ and does not show the plasma edge. The reflectivity below
50 cm⁻¹ slightly increases as ω approaches 0 cm⁻¹, suggesting the
existence of overdamped Drude conductivity, which is consistent with the
weakly metallic temperature dependence of ρ_(c)(dρ_(c)/dT  > 0).[9, 16]
In the superconducting state, the reflectivity edge due to the plasma of
condensed carriers appears, which is confirmed by the zero crossing of
ϵ₁(ω) in Fig. 3(b). The frequency of the edge well corresponds to the
previously observed absorption peak for powder samples.[6] The spectra
do not change below 10 K, however, the edge at 5 K is not as sharp as
that of La₂CuO_(4 + δ). It suggests the existence of unpaired carriers,
which is discussed later.

Figure 4 shows the far-infrared reflectivity spectra for **E∥**_c_ of
Nd₂CuO_(4 − x)F_(x). As with La₂CuO_(4 + δ) and
La_(1.88)Ca_(1.11)Cu₂O_(6 + δ), the insulating spectra in the normal
state change to show a reflectivity edge of condensed carriers in the
superconducting state. Again, the frequency of the edge well corresponds
to the absorption peak of powder samples.[6] The edge is very sharp,
suggesting the absence of residual conductivity in this frequency
region.

Usually, the c-axis penetration depth λ_(c) is directly obtained from
the sum rule analysis of σ₁(ω) and/or from ϵ₁(ω), which are determined
by the Kramers-Kronig transformation. In this case, we determine λ_(c)
by fitting the reflectivity to avoid the error of absolute reflectivity
and low

Figure 3: (a) Infrared reflectivity spectra (**E∥**_c_) of
La_(1.89)Ca_(1.11)Cu₂O_(6 + δ) single crystal. (b) Real part of
dielectric function and real part of conductivity (inset) obtained from
the Kramers-Kronig transformation of the reflectivity spectra.

Figure 2: (a) Infrared reflectivity spectra (**E∥**_c_) of
La₂CuO_(4 + δ) single crystal. (b) Real part of dielectric function and
real part of conductivity (inset) obtained from the Kramers-Kronig
transformation of the reflectivity spectra.

frequency extrapolation in Kramers-Kronig transformation. We assume the
low-frequency dielectric function of superconductors at 5 K can be
written by the two-fluid model such that

$$\epsilon(\omega) = \epsilon_{\infty} - \frac{\omega_{pr}^{2}}{\omega^{2}} - \frac{\omega_{pn}^{2}}{\omega(\omega + i\gamma)},$$

where ϵ_(∞), ω_(ps), ω_(pn), and γ are the high-frequency dielectric
constant, plasma frequency of condensed carrier, plasma frequency, and
scattering rate of normal component. In this equation, the Drude formula
temporarily expresses the residual conductivity within the
superconducting gap region. Assuming the dielectric function of Eq. (1),
the reflectivity R(ω) below 50 cm⁻¹ at 5 K in Fig. 2(a) is fitted by the
relation

$$R(\omega) = \left| \frac{1 - \sqrt{\epsilon(\omega)}}{1 + \sqrt{\epsilon(\omega)}} \right|^{2}.$$

The fit gives ϵ_(∞) = 26.1 and ω_(ps) = 75.6 cm⁻¹, which gives the
c-axis penetration depth λ_(c) = 21μm although ω_(pn) and γ cannot be
simultaneously determined. The details of the above fitting procedure
for La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄ have been discussed by Kim _et al._[17] The
same fitting in Fig. 3(a) gives ϵ_(∞) = 27 and ω_(ps) = 160 cm⁻¹, which
gives λ_(c) = 13μm for La_(1.89)Ca_(1.11)Cu₂O_(6 + δ), and the fitting
in Fig. 4 gives ϵ_(∞) = 20 and ω_(ps) = 50 cm⁻¹, which gives
λ_(c) = 32μm for Nd₂CuO_(4 − x)F_(x).

These large c-axis penetration depths can be explained by the
Josephson-coupled layer model along the c axis. In the model, λ_(c) is
equal to the Josephson penetration depth λ_(J), which is expressed as

$$\lambda_{J} = \sqrt{\frac{\hbar c^{2}\rho_{c}}{4\pi^{2}\Delta}},$$

where Δ is the superconducting gap value. [1, 4, 6] Assuming that
ρ_(c) = 3Ω cm and 2Δ = 180 cm⁻¹ for La₂CuO_(4 + δ) and 4Ω cm and 105
cm⁻¹ for Nd₂CuO_(4 − x)F_(x), [18, 19]λ_(c) = 21μm for La₂CuO_(4 + δ)
and λ_(c) = 32μm for Nd₂CuO_(4 − x)F_(x) are deduced from Eq. (3). It
has been shown that the model also explains the value of λ_(c) in other
cuprates such as La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄ and YBa₂Cu₃O_(6 + δ), [1, 3, 4, 6]
and it confirms that the observed plasma edge is Josephson plasma
oscillation in Josephson-coupled layer superconductors. For the
definitive study of the Josephson plasma oscillation, optical
measurement under magnetic field is necessary, as has been done for
Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O_(y) in the microwave region. [20]

Although the Josephson-coupled layer model well describes the λ_(c) of
many high-T_(c) cuprates, a significant deviation from the model is
observed in the case of La_(1.89)Ca_(1.11)Cu₂O_(6 + δ). The observed
value of λ_(c) = 13μm is much longer than the value of λ_(c) = 2.6μm
expected from the model assuming 2Δ = 200 cm⁻¹ and ρ_(c) = 0.1Ω cm,
which was obtained from the transport measurement. [9, 16] The
discrepancy arises because the model does not take into account the
existence of large numbers of unpaired carriers in the superconducting
state. Due to these unpaired carriers as shown in Fig. 3(a), the
superfluid density in La_(1.89)Ca_(1.11)Cu₂O_(6 + δ) becomes smaller,
and λ_(c) increases. Numerous unpaired carriers are also observed in
La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄ and YBa₂Cu₃O_(6 + δ) in the overdoped region, and
their existence has been claimed to be an inherent property of
high-T_(c) cuprates in the overdoped region. [1, 3] However, it seems
hopeless to explain these unpaired carriers as an inherent property in
the overdoped region or to attribute them to thermal excitation of
quasiparticles, since La_(1.89)Ca_(1.11)Cu₂O_(6 + δ) is in the
light-doped region and the reflectivity spectra do not change below 10
K. [14, 16] In this case, the existence of the large number of unpaired
carriers may come from a strong disorder effect in the gap with nodes,
since there are La and Ca disorder and oxygen vacancies between two CuO₂
planes in La_(1.89)Ca_(1.11)Cu₂O_(6 + δ).

The value of λ_(c) is much longer than the in-plane penetration depth
λ_(ab) of 0.42 μm for La₂CuO_(4 + δ) and λ_(ab) of 0.13 μm for
Nd_(1.85)C_(0.15)CuO₄, which were estimated from μSR and microwave
absorption measurements. [21, 22] The anisotropy λ_(c)/λ_(ab) for
La₂CuO_(4 + δ) is 50, which is almost equal to the value for
La_(1.92)Sr_(0.00)CuO₄. [1] Since the hole doping level of
La₂CuO_(4 + δ) with T_(c) = 33 K is almost equal to the level of
La_(1.92)Sr_(0.08)CuO₄, [13] the present result indicates that the
(La,Sr)₂O₂ layer and La₂O_(2 + δ) layer have the same insulating nature
of a buffer layer between CuO₂ planes. On the other hand, the anisotropy
λ_(c)/λ_(ab) for Nd₂CuO_(4 − x)F_(x) is 250, which means that the
insulating nature of the Nd₂O_(2 − x)F_(x) layer is stronger than that
of the La₂O_(2 + δ) layer.

In conclusion, we have measured the far-infrared reflectivity for E∥c in
La₂CuO_(4 + δ), La_(1.89)Ca_(1.11)Cu₂O_(6 + δ), and Nd₂CuO_(4 − x)F_(x)
single crystals down to 9 cm⁻¹. All the insulating spectra in the normal
states change to show a sharp plasma edge in the superconducting state,
which is identified as Josephson plasma oscillation in the
Josephson-coupled layer superconductors. In
La_(1.89)Ca_(1.11)Cu₂O_(6 + δ), there are a large number of unpaired
carriers in the superconducting state. The c-axis penetration depth
λ_(c) has been discussed based on the model.

We would like to thank Dr. A. Matsuda for valuable discussions.

Figure 4: Far-infrared reflectivity spectra (E∥c) of Nd₂CuO_(4 − x)F_(x)
single crystal.

R14 278 * [1] S. Uchida, K. Tamasaku, and S. Tajima, Phys. Rev. B
**53**, 14 558 (1996). * [2] C. C. Homes, T. Timusk, D. A. Bonn, R.
Liang, and W. N. Hardy, Physica C **254**, 265 (1995). * [3] S. Tajima,
J. Schutzmann, S. Miyamoto, I. Terasaki, Y. Sato, and R. Hauff, Phys.
Rev. B **55**, 6051 (1997). * [4] D. N. Basov, T. Timusk, B. Dabrowski,
and J. D. Jorgensen, Phys. Rev. B **50**, 3511 (1994). * [5] M. Reedyk,
T. Timusk, J. S. Xue, and J. E. Greedan, Phys. Rev. B **49**, 15 984
(1994). * [6] H. Shibata and T. Yamada, Phys. Rev. B **54**, 7500
(1996). * [7] H. Shibata, K. Kinoshita, and T. Yamada, Physica C
**232**, 181 (1994). * [8] T. Ishii, T. Watanabe, K. Kinoshita, and A.
Matsuda, Physica C **179**, 39 (1991). * [9] M. Okuya _et al._, J.
Supercond. **7**, 313 (1994). * [10] S. Tanda, K. Takahashi, and T.
Nakayama, Phys. Rev. B **49**, 9260 (1994). * [11] M. A. Quijada, D. B.
Tanner, F. C. Chou, D. C. Johnston, and S. W. Cheong, Phys. Rev. B
**52**, 15 485 (1995). * [12] H. Shibata, T. Yamada, Y. Zenitani, and J.
Akimitsu (unpublished). * [13] For a review, see, e.g., D. C. Johnston
_et al._, in _Phase Separation in Cuprate Superconductors_, edited by E.
Sigmund and K. A. Muller (Springer-Verlag, Heidelberg, 1994). * [14] H.
Shibata, T. Watanabe, K. Kinoshita, A. Matsuda, and T. Yamada, Phys.
Rev. B **48**, 14 027 (1993). * [15] H. Shibata, K. Semba, A. Matsuda,
and T. Yamada, Phys. Rev. B **51**, 9294 (1995). * [16] T. Watanabe, K.
Kinoshita, and A. Matsuda, Phys. Rev. B **47**, 11 544 (1993). * [17] J.
H. Kim _et al._, Physica C **247**, 297 (1995). * [18] T. Ito, H.
Takagi, S. Ishibashi, T. Ido, and S. Uchida, Nature (London) **350**,
596 (1991). * [19] J. D. Yu, Y. Inaguma, M. Itoh, M. Oguni, and T.
Kyomen, Phys. Rev. B **54**, 7455 (1996). * [20] Y. Matsuda, M. B.
Gaifullin, K. Kumagai, K. Kadowaki, and T. Mochiku, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**75**, 4512 (1995). * [21] E. J. Ansaldo _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **40**,
2555 (1989). * [22] D. H. Wu _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **70**, 85
(1993).
