# Electron-lattice coupling and stripe formation in La_(2 − x)Ba_(x)CuO₄

J.-S. Zhou and J. B. Goodenough

Center for Materials Science & Engineering, ETC 9.102, University of
Texas at Austin, Austin, Texas 78712-1063

13 January 1997; revised manuscript received 12 May 1997

###### Abstract

The temperature dependence of the resistance R(T) and the thermoelectric
power α(T) under different hydrostatic pressures P are reported for
polycrystalline La_(2 − x)Ba_(x)CuO₄, 0.11 ≤ x ≤ 14; they reveal a
minimum in R(T) and an abrupt change in the sign of α(T) at a transition
from the low-temperature tetragonal (LTT) to the low-temperature
orthorhombic phase. Superconductivity is suppressed at ambient pressure
in the range 0.12 ≤ x ≤ 0.13, where neutron-diffraction data have shown
a static charge ordering into hole-rich and magnetic stripes, but
pressure introduces n-type superconductivity into these compositions
within the LTT phase with a dT₀/dP ≈ 1.0 K/kbar. The x = 0.14 sample is
superconductive at ambient pressure in the LTT phase, and dT₀/dP > 0
changes to dT₀/dP = 0 at a P_(c) ≈ 10 kbar. No anomaly in the transport
properties is found at the magnetic ordering temperature T_(N) ≈ 30 K in
the LTT phase. These data, which show no support for stripe formation
and superconductivity resulting from magnetic interactions, are found to
be compatible with a model of strong coupling of charge carriers in
coherent electronic states to fluctuations in the Cu-O bond lengths.
Periodically alternating stripes of hole-rich and magnetic domains in
the CuO₂ sheets are pinned, for x ≈ 1/8, by the crystallographic
distortion of the LTT phase; but the application of hydrostatic
pressure, which decreases the magnitude of the LTT deformation, restores
superconductivity apparently by depinning the stripes.
[S0163-1829(97)09234-5]

## Introduction

At high temperatures, the superconductive systems L_(2 − x)A_(x)CuO₄, L
= rare earth and A = alkaline earth, are tetragonal with CuO₂ planes
alternating with L_(2 − x)A_(x)O₂ rocksalt layers on traversing the c
axis. This high-temperature tetragonal (HTT) phase remains stable to
lowest temperatures at higher values of x (x > 0.2). For smaller values
of x, the mismatch between the mean equilibrium L,A - O bond length and
the equilibrium Cu-O bond length in the CuO₂ planes places the in-plane
Cu-O bonds under a compressive stress. The bond length mismatch
increases with decreasing temperature because of a smaller thermal
expansion of the equilibrium Cu-O bond length; and below a transition
temperature T_(t), the compressive stress on the CuO₂ planes is relieved
by a cooperative rotation of the CuO₆ octahedra around the [110] axes,
which lowers the symmetry from tetragonal to orthorhombic. In the
low-temperature orthorhombic (LTO) phase, the 180^(∘) Cu-O-Cu bonds of
the CuO₂ planes are buckled to (180^(∘) - ϕ), transforming the planes to
sheets.[1] The LTO-HTT transition temperature T_(t) decreases
monotonically with increasing x.

In the system La_(2 − x)Ba_(x)CuO₄, there is a second crystallographic
transition below a T_(t2) ≤ T_(t) in a narrow compositional range 0.11 <
x ≤ 0.15; in the low-temperature tetragonal (LTT) phase stabilized below
T_(t2), the CuO₆ octahedra rotate alternately about [100] and [010] axes
of a CuO₂ sheet on traversing the c axis.[2] At compositions close to x
= 1/8 within the LTT phase field, superconductivity is suppressed; in x
= 1/8 compositions exhibiting similar behavior, static ’stripes’
parallel to [100] or [010] axes of the CuO₂ sheets have been observed to
appear abruptly below T_(t2) by neutron diffraction.[2, 3] The existence
of these stripes has also been demonstrated by EXAFS.[4, 5]
Significantly, a high resolution synchrotron x-ray diffraction study of
a composition with x = 0.15 has shown that superconductivity exists in
the LTT phase,[6] although with a reduced T_(c), and static stripes were
found only in samples where superconductivity is suppressed. However,
inelastic neutron-scattering data are compatible with the presence of
mobile stripes in a superconducting La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄ composition
with the LTO structure.[7] These observations add strong support to
heterogeneous electronic models of the copper-oxide superconductors that
would segregate holes and spins into hole-rich and hole-poor domains.
Moreover, in-plane thermal conductivity data provide striking evidence
for a scattering of acoustic phonons by mobile "stripes," but not by the
pinned stripes.[8]

Although the existence of mobile stripe domains in a magnetic matrix now
appears firmly established for the normal state of the copper-oxide
superconductors, the driving force for their formation remains
controversial. In order to simplify the description of a complex system
of interacting charges, spins and lattice vibrations, emphasis has been
given to one feature or another. One approach would emphasize the
electron-electron and magnetic interactions, as in a t_-J_ model;[9]
another invokes the inherent lattice instability associated with the
location of the Fermi energy ϵ_(F) in a van Hove singularity where the
density N(ϵ_(F)) of one-particle states is exceptionally high.[10]
We,[11, 12, 13, 14] on the other hand, have pointed out that a
transition from localized (or strongly correlated) to itinerant
electronic behavior may introduce a double-well potential for the
equilibrium Cu-O bond length that would favor a segregation into
hole-rich and magnetic domains. Moreover, where that segregation gives
rise to an ordered alteration of the two types of domains, the
heterogeneous state would represent a distinguishable thermodynamic
phase.

Our thermoelectric power data indicated that formation of the
distinguishable thermodynamic phase occurs by the con densation of a gas
of nonadiabatic polarons containing several copper centers rather than
by a van Hove instability. However, the data forced us to introduce
local, dynamic pseudo-Jahn-Teller deformations of the oxidized copper
centers; cooperativity among the local deformations was shown to
stabilize polarons containing several copper centers and to introduce an
elastic coupling between polarons that can compete with the Coulomb
repulsion between them.[15] Condensation of the polarons into extended
domains introduces coherent electronic states having a dispersion
$\epsilon({\bf k})$ and a defined Fermi surface; these coherent states
coexist with incoherent (localized) states in the lower Hubbard band
(LHB) of the magnetic domains that lie well below ϵ_(F). A gap at
half-band in the coherent states makes the coherent charge carriers p
type.

In this paper, we report the temperature dependence of the resistance
R(T) and of the thermoelectric power α(T) under different hydrostatic
pressures for polycrystalline samples of La_(2 − x)Ba_(x)CuO₄ in the
narrow compositional range 0.11≤_x_ <= 0.14, and we argue that these
data and similar measurements on the system La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄ provide
evidence for a βN(ϵ_(F))/∂ϕ<0, or a $\beta n_{\rm eff}/\partial\phi$<0,
where ϕ is a measure of the bending of the (180^(∘) - ϕ) Cu-O-Cu bond
angle and $n_{\rm eff}$ is the effective density of mobile charge
carriers. On the other hand, the spin system appears to have little
influence on the transport properties. These findings provide a strong
indication that the electron-lattice, not the magnetic, interactions
control the formation of the electronically heterogeneous thermodynamic
phase found for the normal state of the copper-oxide superconductors.

## Experiment

Samples of La_(2 − x)Ba_(x)CuO₄ were made from La₂O₃, BaCO₃, and CuO
powders by conventional solid-state reaction. The samples were sintered
at 1050 ^(∘)C followed by an anneal in oxygen atmosphere at 900 ^(∘)C.
All samples were single phase to x-ray diffraction. Comparison of our
data with the literature indicates that there is little, if any,
deviation from oxygen stoichiometry.

Four-probe resistance R(T) and thermoelectric-power α(T) measurements
under high pressure were carried out in a self-clamped apparatus
described elsewhere.[16] The contribution to α(T) from the copper leads
was subtracted out. The accuracy of the α(T) measurements is ±0.3 μV/K.

We use T₀ in place of the superconductive critical temperature T_(c) ;
it is defined as the temperature below which the resistance becomes
unobservable with a nanovolt meter. The pressures used to calculate
dT₀/dP were measured at T₀.

## RESULTS

The evolution of the transport properties with hole doping x in
La_(2 − x)Ba_(x)CuO₄, 0.11≤_x_ <= 0.14, can be separated into three
compositional ranges: x <= 0.11, 0.12≤_x_ <= 0.13, and x = 0.14.

x <= _0.11_. Figure 1(a) shows the R(T) and α(T) data for x = 0.11 under
several applied pressures; the data are typical for compositions x <=
0.11. The resistivity changes monotonically with temperature above T_(c)
; T_(c) increases with pressure with dT₀/dP = 1.0 K/kbar. The origin of
the change of slope near 50 K in the ambient-pressure R(T) curve is not
identified. The α(T) curves are typical of an underdoped sample;[12]α(T)
increases with temperature to a value that is temperature-independent,
and the low-temperature enhancement peaking in the interval
100<$T_{\rm max}$≤150 K in optimally doped samples is not apparent.
Pressure increases not only T_(c) , but also α(T) of the normal state;
see inset of Fig. 1(a).

_0.12≤x_ <= _0.13_. Figures 1(b)−1(d) shows the R(T) and α(T) data under
several applied pressures for x = 0.12, 0.125, and 0.13. In this
compositional range, superconductivity is suppressed at ambient pressure
and a resistance minimum occurs at a $T_{\rm min}$≈70 K. Pressure
reduces $T_{\rm min}$ , but it remains above 50 K under the highest
pressures applied. As noted by others,[17]${}^{\rm 20}$ pressure induces
the appearance of superconductivity with a quite large dT₀/dP.

A remarkable drop in α(T) sets in on lowering the temperature through
$T_{\rm min}$ , α(T) becoming negative at lower temperatures. A negative
α(T) in the LTT phase has also been reported by
others.[21]${}^{\rm 21}$${}^{\rm 24}$${}^{\rm 24}$ Moreover, a
low-temperature enhancement δα(T) with a $T_{\rm max}$≈150 K emerges; it
becomes more pronounced with increasing pressure as is evident, for
example, in Fig. 1(d) for x = 0.13. Pressure also reduces the magnitude
of the negative values of α(T); nevertheless, the superconductive state
having α(T) = 0, which is obtained at higher pressures, is approached on
lowering the temperature from negative values of α(T). The
superconductive state of the p-type superconductors is normally
approached from positive values of α(T) as occurs for x = 0.11.

x = _0.14_. Figure 1(e) shows the R(T) and α(T) curves for x = 0.14
under several applied pressures. The data are similar to those obtained
for x = 0.13, Fig. 1(d), except for the appearance of superconductivity
at ambient pressure and a vanishing at higher pressure of dT₀/dP and
dα(285 K)/dP. The critical pressure (5 kbars) for a dα/dP = 0 at 285 K
is somewhat lower than the 10 kbars for dT₀/dP = 0.

## DISCUSSION

Large single crystals of La_(1.48)Nd_(0.40)Sr_(0.12)CuO₄ appear to be
more easily prepared than single crystals of La_(1.88)Ba_(0.12)CuO₄.
Both compounds manifest the x = 1/8 suppression of superconductivity
within a LTT phase field, and the phase diagrams of the two compounds
are nearly identical; it is therefore appropriate to begin the
discussion of our data with a review of the major results obtained by
neutron-diffraction and resistivity measurements on single-crystal
La_(1.48)Nd_(0.40)Sr_(0.12)CuO₄. Tranquada _et al.[3]_ found (a) a phase
transition from LTT to LTO at a $T_{\rm 2}$≈70 K; (b) the abrupt
appearance in the CuO₂ sheets of static stripes oriented parallel to
[100] or [010] axes on lowering the temperature through $T_{\rm r2}$;
(c) a long-range magnetic ordering within the hole-poor stripes below a
$T_{\rm N}$≈ 50 K; (d) a discontinuity at a minimum in the resistivity
ρ_(ab)(T) of the a - b planes, i.e., CuO₂ sheets, at a
$T_{\rm min}$=$T_{\rm 2}$≈70 K; and (e) a smooth variation of ρ(T)
through $T_{\rm N}$.

We find a $T_{\rm min}$≈70 K in our R(T) data also, which we take to
mark the LTT-LTO transition at $T_{\rm r2}$<$T_{\rm r}$ in the range
0.12≤x≤0.14 in La_(2 − x)Ba_(x)CuO₄. There is no evidence for a LTT
phase in the x = 0.11 sample; a $T_{\rm min}$ associated with the
LTT-LTO transition disappears in the range 0.15<_x_ < 0.16, Figure 1:
Temperature dependence of the thermoelectric power α(T), and the
resistance R(T), under different hydrostatic pressures for
polycrystalline samples of the system La_(2 − x)Ba_(x)CuO₄: (a)
x = 0.11, (b) x = 0.12, (c) x = 0.125, (d) x = 0.13, and (e) x = 0.14.

which gives us the tentative phase diagram shown in Fig. 2. NMR (Ref.
[25]) and _m_SR (Ref. [26]) measurements have located a T_(N) >= 30 K
within the LTT phase field. The LTO-HTT transition temperature T_(t) is
taken from neutron-diffraction data.27

By analogy with La1.48Nd0.40Sr0.12CuO4, suppression of superconductivity
in the range 0.12 <= x <= 0.13 within the LTT phase is assumed to be
associated with the formation of static stripes. We note that the
stripes are oriented parallel to the [100] or [010] axes of the CuO2
sheets whereas the rotations of the CuO6 octahedra in the LTO phase are
about [110] axes. In the HTT phase, there is no deformation to pin the
stripes, so they remain mobile. In the LTO phase, the deformation axes
cross the stripe axes at a 45deg angle, so the deformation has a wrong
symmetry for pinning the stripes. However, in the LTT phase the symmetry
of the deformation is compatible with the pinning of stripes having
widths commensurate with the lattice distortion. Commensuration can
occur only at a specific hole concentration, and the observation of
static stripes at x = 1/8 within the LTT phase is the result of pinning
by such a commensuration. The stripes are not pinned in the
superconductive x = 0.14 sample.

In the CuO2 sheets, phase segregation into large, nonadiabatic polarons
in underdoped samples or stripe domains at higher hole concentrations
would be accomplished by cooperative displacements of the oxygen atoms
away from the magnetic Cu atom near neighbor toward the other
nonmagnetic Cu atom at the boundary between phases, and these
cooperative displacements may be either dynamic or static. At a critical
composition, a competition between dynamic and pinned oxygen
displacements could manifest itself in a large 16O/18O isotope effect,
as has been observed28 in the system La2 - -Ba2CuO4 near x = 1/8.
Moreover, mobile stripes would introduce dynamic oxygen displacements
that could scatter strongly acoustic phonons transporting heat.

The parent compound La2CuO4 is a Mott-Hubbard antiferromagnetic
semiconductor. Doping with an alkaline-earth atom A in the systems La2 -
the thermoelectric power on cooling through the LTO-LTT transition
temperature T_(t2) is accompanied by a change in the resistivity ρ(T)
from a metallic to a semiconductive temperature dependence. A change in
the sign of α signals a change in the sign of the curvature, averaged
over all the Fermi surface, of the $\epsilon({\bf k})$ dispersion curve
at ϵ_(F) if a band model for the states near ϵ_(F) remains valid. Such a
change would seem to require the opening of an energy gap below ϵ_(F) as
illustrated in Fig. 3(b). Whether the gap at half-band remains in the
LTT phase remains to be tested, but it should not be expected to vanish
in the LTT phase as it is not related to the translational symmetry of
the unit cell. From our model of the origin of the gap,[13] we would
expect the gap at half-band to increase with a pinning of the stripes
that increases the bending ϕ of the Cu-O-Cu bonds from 180deg.[32]
According to the model of Fig. 3(b), |α| should increase as ϵ_(F)
approaches the lower band gap with increasing x, but we observe that |α|
reaches a maximum at x = 1/8. This latter observation suggests an
alternative solution; the transition from the LTO to the LTT phase
induces a separated band of polaronic states at ϵ_(F) that is located in
a gap in the $\epsilon({\bf k})$ curve as pictured in Fig. 3(c).
Moreover, neutron diffraction data[32] show that pinning of the stripes,
which increases the bending ϕ of the Cu-O-Cu bond angle, narrows the
bandwidth of the states near ϵ_(F), and also traps out mobile charge
carriers. At x = 1/8, the Cu(III)/Cu ratio matches commensuration of the
stripes, thereby minimizing the number of mobile charge carriers. This
model is consistent not only with the observation of a nonmetallic
temperature dependence of ρ(T) below T_(t2), but also with a maximum |α|
at x = 1/8 since polaronic mobile charge carriers at ϵ_(F) would make
the statistical contribution dominate the transport term in the
thermoelectric power. Since the bending angle ϕ is a maximum for a
commensurate pinning of the stripe domains at x = 1/8, we conclude that
the $n_{\rm eff}$ decreases as ϕ increases, i.e.,
$\partial n_{\rm eff}/\partial\phi$<0 or, for a band model with
$n_{\rm eff}\!\sim\!N(\epsilon_{F})$, ∂N(ϵ_(F))/∂ϕ  <0. Moreover, a
larger thermal expansion of the La-O and Ba-O equilibrium bond lengths
relative to the Cu-O bond length makes the bond-length mismatch increase
with decreasing temperature to give a ∂ϕ/∂T  <0.[33] Therefore the
nonmetallic temperature dependence of the resistivity below T_(t2) may
reflect a
$dn_{\rm eff}/dT\!\!=\!(\partial n_{\rm eff}/\partial\phi)(\partial\phi/\partial T )\!\!>$0
rather than an activated mobility in the LTT phase.

We now consider the changes induced by pressure. In the LTT phase, a
dT_(c)/dP  >0 is similar to that found in the LTO phase of the
La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄ system where pressure was found to stabilize the
LTT phase relative to the LTO phase because ∂ϕ/∂P <0.[34] The unusually
high compressibility of the Cu-O bond in the superconductive
compositions also applies to the La_(2 − x)Ba_(x)CuO₄ system to give a
∂ϕ/∂P  <0 (Ref. 20) in the compositions investigated in this study. It
then follows that the observed
$d|\alpha|/dP\!\!=\!(\partial|\alpha|/\partial n_{\rm eff})(\partial n_{\rm eff} /\partial\phi)$
(∂ϕ/∂P  ) <0 requires a $\partial n_{\rm eff}/\partial\phi\!\!<$0 since
$\partial|\alpha|/\partial n_{\rm eff}\!\!<$0. We can also demonstrate
the relation $\partial n_{\rm eff}/\partial\phi\!\!<$0 from the
observation that dT_(c)/dP  >0. From μSR data,[35] we have the relation
$T_{c}\!\sim\!n_{\rm eff}/m^{*}$, which gives
$dT_{c}/dP\!\sim\!dn_{\rm eff}/dP$$=\!(\partial n_{\rm eff}/\partial\phi)(\partial\phi/\partial P)\!\!>$0,
and ∂ϕ/∂P  <0 then requires a $\partial n_{\rm eff}/\partial\phi\!\!<$0.

The pressure dependence of |α| shows a
$\partial n_{\rm eff}/\partial P\!\!>$0. In an itinerant-electron model,
the magnitude of $n_{\rm eff}\!\sim\!N(\epsilon_{F})$ depends on two
factors, the flatness of $\epsilon({\bf k})$ at ϵ_(F) and the total
density of itinerant-electron states. Since the width W_(σ) of the x²-y²
band of itinerant-electron states varies as cos ϕ and we have a
∂ϕ/∂P  <0, W_(σ) must increase with pressure as the overlap integrals
entering W_(σ) also increase with pressure. Therefore we conclude that
the density $n_{\rm eff}$ of mobile charge carriers, whether polaronic
or itinerant, increases with pressure in the LTT phase due to a transfer
of spectral weight from trapped states to mobile-carrier states as ϕ
decreases. In real space, the spectral-weight transfer would be
associated with an increase with decreasing ϕ in the width of the
hole-rich stripes once the stripes become depinued at a ϕ  < ϕ_(c). The
data are thus consistent with the conclusion that superconductivity is
found where the stripes are mobile.

We have shown elsewhere[36] that a d[ δα(T) ]/dP  >0 in the LTO phase
vanishes in the HTT phase as does dT_(c)/dP, which shows a
∂[ δα(T) ]/∂ϕ  <0; therefore an increase in N(ϵ_(F)) also increases the
enhancement term δα(T). The temperature at which δα(T) is a maximum
falls in the range 100  < T <150 K, which is too high for acoustic
phonons.[37] We conclude that δα(T) implies a strong coupling of the
mobile charge carriers to the oxygen-atom displacements in the Cu-O-Cu
bonds and a transfer of optical-mode lattice entropy by the charge
carriers in the mobile hole-rich stripes.

Incommensuration of the stripe periodicity in the x = 0.14 sample leads
to a depinning of the stripes at ambient pressure; depinning reduces the
bond bending to ϕ  < ϕ_(c) in the LTT phase and N(ϵ_(F)) becomes high
enough to support superconductivity. We interpret a nearly
pressure-independent α(285 K) above 5 kbars to reflect a disappearance
of the LTO fluctuations in the HTT phase[36] above 5 kbars at room
temperature. On the other hand, a dT₀/dP>0 vanishing above a P_(c) ∼ 10
kbars within the LTT phase is interesting since an α  <0 shows retention
of the LTT phase to P  > P_(c), which indicates a ∂ϕ/∂P  <0 continues to
be present for P  > P_(c). It would appear that a depinning of the
stripes that releases all the trapped carriers is not complete for
P  < P_(c) and that once the release of trapped carriers is complete at
P  > P_(c) there is little dependence of T₀ on ϕ in the LTT phase.

For x = 0.16, the LTO phase is retained to lowest temperatures and, on
cooling through T_(c), α(T) drops to zero from the positive side.
Moreover, a dT_(c)/dP  >0 to 17 kbars shows, unlike the LTT phase, a
marked dT_(c)/dϕ  <0 as in the LTO phase of La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄.[38]
This observation suggests there is an important transfer of spectral
weight from the Hubbard bands to the coherent band with decreasing ϕ in
the LTO phase that does not occur in the LTT phase.

Finally, the band model successfully predicts the locus of the Fermi
surface obtained by ARPES whereas real-space experiments have now shown
the presence of dynamic hole-rich and hole-poor stripes in most of the
high-T_(c) cuprate systems.[2, 3, 4, 5] With a photoemission resolution
of ΔE∼ 20 meV, ARPES may not be able to resolve the band structure
changes induced by stripe formation if the stripes are mobile with a
short residence time Δt on a given atom.

## Summary and Conclusions

In summary, we have found the following.

1. Both R(T) and α(T) show no anomaly at a magnetic ordering temperature
or, as we have shown elsewhere,[39] at the opening of a spin gap;
however, they both change dramatically at the structural LTT-LTO
transition temperature _T__t_2 and they both vary sensitively with the
bending _ph_ of the (180deg-_ph_) Cu-O-Cu bonds. 2. The normal state of
the superconductive compositions is a distinguishable thermodynamic
state consisting of a periodic array of alternating hole-rich and
magnetic domains (stripes) that are mobile, and at a ratio
Cu(III)/Cu=1/8, the period of this charge-density wave (CDW) is
commensurate with the lattice periodicity of a CuO2 sheet. However,
pinning of the CDW to give static stripes observable by diffraction
experiments only occurs in the LTT phases. 3. Formation of the stripes
does not introduce an energy gap at e_(F), which would suppress
superconductivity, either where the stripes are mobile or become pinned
in the LTT phase; but a gap at midband in the (_x_2-_y_2) band of
coherent states makes the charge carriers _p_-type in the HTT and LTO
phases, the opening of an additional gap below e_(F) by the structural
change makes the charge carriers _n_-type in the LTT phase. 4. In both
the LTO and LTT phases, hydrostatic pressure reduces the bending _ph_ of
the (180deg-_ph_) Cu-O-Cu bond angle: _ph_ph_/_ph_P_<0, which is
indicative of an exceptionally compressible mean equilibrium Cu-O bond
length, i.e., of a double-well bond potential. 5. A _ph_Tc_/_ph_d_ph_<0
implies a _ph_eff/_ph_d_ph_<0, where _n_eff  _N_(e_(F)) is the effective
density of coherent electronic states at e_(F), i.e., _ph_/_ph_d_ph_<0.
6. In the LTO phase, a _ph_/_ph_d_ph_<0 for the width W_(s) of the
x2-_y_2 band of coherent states promotes a transfer of spectral weight
from incoherent to coherent states with decreasing bending _ph_ of the
(180deg-_ph_) Cu-O-Cu bond angle; this spectral-weight transfer appears
to accompany a mean flattening of the _e_(**k**) dispersion curves at
e_(F). In the LTT phase, the flat portion of the dispersion curve
appears to transform to a set of polaronic states within a gap in the
dispersion curve for the coherent states, and the number of mobile
polaronic states increases with decreasing _ph_ and depinning of the
stripes. 7. The bending _ph_ of the (180deg-_ph_) Cu-O-Cu bond angles is
a maximum and _N_(e_(F)) is therefore a minimum where the stripes are
pinned and superconductivity is suppressed; reduction of _ph_ to a
_ph_<_ph_c by hydrostatic pressure depins the stripes and introduces
superconductivity. 8. A _ph_[_d_(_T_)]/_ph_P_>0 shows that the
enhancement _ph_(_T_) of the thermoelectric power also increases with
_N_(e_(F)); a maximum in _th_a_(_T_) in the temperature range 100
<_T_<150 K suggests that the mobile charge carriers transport
optical-mode, not acoustic-mode, lattice entropy, which would be
consistent with a strong coupling of the charge carriers to Cu-O
bond-length fluctuations.

In conclusion, there is little evidence that magnetic or
electron-electron interactions alone or the location of a Fermi energy
in a van Hove singularity is responsible for the peculiar transport
properties of the normal state of the copper-oxide superconductors. On
the other hand, there is overwhelming evidence that strong electron
coupling to fluctuations of the Cu-O bond lengths is occurring; these
fluctuations would be the result of both a double-well potential for the
Cu-O bond at a crossover from localized to itinerant electronic behavior
and local, pseudo Jahn-Teller deformations. A recent study[40] of the
insulator-metal transition in the system La2-_x_Sr_xCuO4 occurring in a
pulsed field of 61 T is completely consistent with this conclusion.

###### Acknowledgements.

The authors thank the NSF and the Robert A. Welch Foundation, Houston,
Texas, for financial support.

## References

* [1] B. Grande, H. Muller-Buschbaum, and M. Schweizer, Z. Anorg. Allg.
Chem. **428**, 120 (1977). * [2] J.-M. Tranquada _et al._, Nature
(London) **375**, 561 (1995). * [3] J. M. Tranquada _et al._, Phys. Rev.
B **54**, 7489 (1996). * [4] A. Bianconi _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**76**, 3412 (1996). * [5] A. Bianconi _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **54**,
4310 (1996); **54**, 12 018 (1996). * [6] S. J. L. Billinge _et al._,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **71**, 1903 (1993). * [7] S. W. Cheong _et al._, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **67**, 1791 (1991); T. E. Mason, G. Aeppli, and H. A. Mook,
_ibid._**68**, 1414 (1992); T. R. Thurston _et al._, Phys. Rev. B
**46**, 9128 (1992). * [8] O. Baberski _et al._ (unpublished). * [9] V.
J. Emery, S. A. Kivelson, and H. Q. Lin, Phys. Rev. Lett. **64**, 475
(1990). * [10] R. S. Markiewicz, Int. J. Mod. Phys. B **5**, 2037
(1991). * [11] J. B. Goodenough and J.-S. Zhou, Phys. Rev. B **42**,
4276 (1990). * [12] J. B. Goodenough, J.-S. Zhou, and J. Chan, Phys.
Rev. B **47**, 5275 (1993). * [13] J. B. Goodenough and J.-S. Zhou,
Phys. Rev. B **49**, 4251 (1994). * [14] J. B. Goodenough, J.-S. Zhou,
and K. Allan, J. Mater. Chem. **1**, 715 (1991). * [15] J.-S. Zhou, G.
I. Bersuker, and J. B. Goodenough, J. Supercond. **8**, 541 (1995); G.
I. Bersuker and J. B. Goodenough, Physica C **274**, 267 (1997). * [16]
J.-S. Zhou and J. B. Goodenough, Phys. Rev. B **54**, 13 393 (1996). *
[17] C. Murayama _et al._, Physica B **169**, 639 (1991). * [18] W. J.
Liverman, J. G. Huber, A. R. Moodenbaugh, and Y. Xu, Phys. Rev. B
**45**, 4897 (1992). * [19] Q. Xiang _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **46**, 581
(1992). * [20] S. Katano, S. Fumahashi, N. Mori, Y. Ueda, and J. A.
Fernandez-Baca, Phys. Rev. B **48**, 6569 (1993). * [21] M. Sera _et
al._, Solid State Commun. **69**, 851 (1989). * [22] Y. Nakamura and S.
Uchida, Phys. Rev. B **46**, 5841 (1992). * [23] J. Yamada _et al._, J.
Phys. Soc. Jpn. **63**, 2314 (1994). * [24] T. Suzuki, M. Sera, T.
Hanaguri, and T. Fukase, Phys. Rev. B **49**, 12 392 (1994).

* [25] K. Kumagai _et al._, Physica C **185-189**, 913 (1991). * [26] I.
Watanabe _et al._, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **61**, 3058 (1992). * [27] J. D.
Axe _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **62**, 2751 (1989). * [28] M. K.
Crawford _et al._, Science **250**, 1390 (1990). * [29] H. Ding _et
al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **78**, 2628 (1997). * [30] S. Uchida, T. Ido, H.
Takagi, T. Arima, Y. Tokura, and S. Tajima, Phys. Rev. B **43**, 7842
(1991). * [31] Z.-X. Shen, Physica B **197**, 632 (1994), for example. *
[32] B. Buchner, M. Breuer, A. Freimuth, and A. P. Kampf, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **73**, 1841 (1994). * [33] R. M. Fleming, B. Batlogg, R. J. Cava,
and E. A. Rietman, Phys. Rev. B **35**, 7191 (1987). * [34] H. J. Kim
and R. Moret, Physica C **156**, 363 (1988); H. Takahashi _et al._,
Phys. Rev. B **50**, 3221 (1994). * [35] Y. J. Uemura _et al._, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **62**, 2317 (1989). * [36] J.-S. Zhou and J. B. Goodenough,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **77**, 151 (1996). * [37] J.-S. Zhou and J. B.
Goodenough, Phys. Rev. B **51**, 3104 (1995); **54**, 12 488 (1996). *
[38] J.-S. Zhou, H. Chen, and J. B. Goodenough, Phys. Rev. B **49**,
9084 (1994). * [39] J.-S. Zhou, J. B. Goodenough, B. Dabrowski, and K.
Rogacki, Phys. Rev. Lett. **77**, 4253 (1996). * [40] G. S. Boebinger
_et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **77**, 5417 (1996).
