Y NMR study of the effect of Zn substitution on the spin dynamics of
YBa₂Cu₄O₈

G. V. M. Williams

J. L. Tallon

R. Meinhold

New Zealand Institute for Industrial Research and Development, P.O. Box
31310, Lower Hutt, New Zealand

A. Janossy

Institute of Physics, Technical University of Budapest, H-1521 Budapest,
Hungary

13 June 1994; revised manuscript received 10 April 1995

Zn-substituted YBa₂Cu₄O₈ high-temperature superconductors have been
probed by 89Y nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR), susceptibility, and
thermopower measurements. With 89Y NMR we have been able to study the
gap in the spin density of states using the real part of the spin
susceptibility determined from the Knight shift as Zn is progressively
substituted onto the plane copper site. Zn substitution results in a
rapid decrease in T_(c) with a negligible decrease in the spin-gap
energy and an inhomogeneous filling in of the gap in spin density of
states.

The magnetic properties of high-T_(c) superconducting cuprates are
unusual when compared to conventional s-wave BCS superconductors. In the
normal state the electron spins are correlated leading to a spin
susceptibility which is enhanced near the antiferromagnetic wave vector
Q = (π, π).[1] As the temperature is decreased a gap at low energy
appears in the spin susceptibility of underdoped samples.[2, 3] Recent
studies[4, 5, 6] have shown that the pairing interaction in
high-temperature superconductors could be spin mediated. It is therefore
important to fully investigate the relationship between the spin
behavior and superconductivity. Moreover, Loram _et al.[7]_ have shown
from heat-capacity studies that the normal-state gap may be a gap in the
total excitation spectrum and therefore responsible for the depression
of T_(c) with progressive underdoping. Following these ideas we found
that the gap in the spin density of states as probed by 89Y NMR and the
normal-state gap from the heat capacity are equal, have the same hole
concentration dependence, and correlate with the depression in T_(c) in
YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ), YBa₂Cu₄O₈, and Y₂Ba₄Cu₇O_(15 − δ).[8] In this paper we
extend these studies to Zn-substituted YBa₂Cu₄O₈ and we report on
susceptibility, thermopower, and 89Y NMR measurements which show that Zn
substitution leads to an inhomogeneous "filling in" of the gap in the
spin density of states (DOS). The YBa₂(Cu_(1 − x)Zn_(x))₄O₈
superconductor is underdoped and the parent (x = 0) compound has a T_(c)
of 81 K which is rapidly depressed with increasing x. An advantage of
the YBa₂(Cu_(1 − x)Zn_(x))₄O₈ system is that the oxygen stoichiometry is
fixed while for the YBa₂(Cu_(1 − x)Zn_(x))₃O_(7 − δ) superconductor the
oxygen stoichiometry is variable which can lead to oxygen defects,
distortions, and inhomogeneity.[8] Furthermore, unlike the 63Cu nucleus,
the 89Y nucleus does not have a quadrupole moment and hence the 89Y NMR
signal is not quadrupole broadened.

Single-phase samples were prepared by decomposing a stoichiometric mix
of Y₂O₃, Ba(NO₃)₂, CuO, and ZnO powders in air at 700 degC. The
YBa₂(Cu_(1 − x)Zn_(x))₄O₈ samples were reacted for 6 h at 920 degC, 24 h
at 930 degC, and a further 24 h at 930 degC in oxygen at a pressure of 6
MPa.[9] All samples were reground after each sinter. ac-susceptibility
and thermopower measurements (calibrated against a Pb standard) were
performed on pellets at temperatures of 4 K to room temperature. The
temperature dependence of the thermopower, which exhibits a marked
enhancement with the opening of the spin gap, is reported elsewhere.[10]

The 89Y NMR signal was measured between 80 K and room temperature using
a Varian Unity 500 spectrometer with a 11.74 T superconducting magnet.
The room-temperature measurements were made using magic angle spinning
(MAS) with a Doty 5 mm high-speed MAS probe and spinning speeds of 10
kHz to reduce the 89Y NMR line-width. Bloch decay spectra were acquired
using a delay of 20 s between 90^(∘) pulses. Static
temperature-dependent measurements were made by using a Doty 5 mm probe
and 89Y NMR spectra were acquired using the spin-echo technique with a
20 s delay at room temperature increasing to 150 s at 90 K. The NMR
shifts were measured relative to a 1 m aqueous solution of YCl₃ which
had a Larmor frequency of 24.49 MHz.

As shown in Fig. 1(a) substitution of Zn for Cu atoms in these samples
results in a rapid decrease in T_(c). From infrared measurements it has
been deduced that Zn substitutes

Figure 1: (a) Superconducting diamagnetic transition temperature T_(c)
for YBa₂(Cu_(1 − x)Zn_(x))₄O₈. (b) Room-temperature thermopower S for
YBa₂(Cu_(1 − x)Zn_(x))₄O₈.

predominantly for plane Cu2 atom.[11] The room-temperature thermopower,
which is a direct measure of the hole concentration,[12] is shown in
Fig. 1(b) to be independent of Zn concentration implying that the
decrease in T_(c) is not due to a decrease in hole concentration. If
hole filling were responsible for the decrease in T_(c) , the
thermopower would be expected to change from 7 to 80 μV/K as T_(c) falls
to zero.[12]

The ⁸⁹Y NMR spectra at 110 and 293 K for YBa₂(Cu_(0.9875)Zn_(0.0125))₄O₈
and YBa₂(Cu_(0.9625)Zn_(0.0375))₄O₈ are shown in Fig. 2. The asymmetry
in the low-temperature spectra [(b) and (d)], which is not apparent in
the room-temperature spectra [(a) and (c)], can be attributed to the Y
atom probing two different environments.[13] This asymmetry was not seen
in the ⁸⁹Y NMR measurements on YBa₂Cu₄O₈. The ⁸⁹Y NMR spectra are fitted
to two peaks labeled 1 and 2 in Fig. 2. The satellite resonance (peak 2)
can be attributed to Zn inducing a local moment which then interacts
with the nearest-neighbor Y atoms.[13] Zn substitution is thought to
lead to a local moment even though Zn is non-magnetic and the size of
the induced moment can be as high as one Bohr magneton.[14] In Fig. 3 we
show the ⁸⁹Y NMR shifts for the satellite ⁸⁹Y resonance. Significantly,
the shift is independent of Zn content and has a 1/T dependence. This is
consistent with nearest-neighbor ⁸⁹Y atoms interacting with the moment
induced by the Zn atom. using the Millis, Monien, and Pines[15] model,
the NMR shift of this resonance is modeled as,

$$K = (7D_{\rm Cu}/g\,\mu_{B})\chi_{s} + (D_{\rm Zn}/g\,\mu_{B})\chi_{c} + \sigma,$$
(1)

where $D_{\rm Cu}$ is the transferred hyperfine coupling constant from
the spin on the Cu site to the ⁸⁹Y nuclei, $D_{\rm Zn}$ is the
transferred hyperfine coupling constant from the local moment on the Zn
site to the ⁸⁹Y nuclei, g is the electron g factor, μ_(B) is the Bohr
magneton, χ_(s) is the static susceptibility per CuO₂ unit due to the
hyperfine interaction between Y and the electrons in the conduction
band, χ_(c) is the static susceptibility of the induced moment per Zn
atom, and σ is the chemical shift [152 ppm (Ref. [16]]). To obtain an
estimate of the size of the local moment induced by Zn we take
$D_{\rm Zn}$=$D_{\rm Cu}$ which implies that both the conduction-band
wave functions and the Zn impurity wave functions at the Fermi level are
similar. This assumption is consistent with the observation that both Cu
and Zn have 3d outermost occupied levels. Furthermore as the thermopower
is independent of Zn concentration then N(E_(f)) and hence E_(f) are
independent of Zn concentration which is consistent with the Zn-O
orbital being within the Cu-O conduction band. The shift data in Fig. 3
are modeled as (7100/T + 58) ppm as shown by the solid curve. Using the
YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ)⁸⁹Y hyperfine coupling constant, $D_{\rm Cu}$= - 3.0
kG,[17] this corresponds to a Curie susceptibility of x_(c)= 4.4×10⁻²⁵/T
emu/Zn atom. The size of the induced moment is estimated from the Curie
molar susceptibility per Zn atom,

χ_(c) = (μ_(B)²P²)/(3 k_(B)T),
(2)

where P is the size of the induced moment per Zn atom. We find that the
NMR shift of the satellite resonance (peak 2) corresponds to a moment of
∼ 0.9μ_(B) . A similar magnitude has been deduced for Zn-substituted
YBa₂Cu₃O_(6.64) (P= 0.6μ_(B)) which has a lower hole concentration[13]
and for Zn-substituted YBa₂(Cu_(0.972)Zn_(0.03))₄O₇ (P∼1 μ_(B)).[14]

The temperature dependence of the NMR shift of the main ⁸⁹Y resonance
(peak 1 in Fig. 2) is plotted in Fig. 4 for YBa₂(Cu_(1 − x)Zn_(x))₄O₈
samples (open symbols) for four different Zn concentrations, x= 0, x=
1.25

Figure 3: ⁸⁹Y NMR shifts of the satellite resonance (peak 2 in Fig. 2)
for the YBa₂(Cu_(1 − x)Zn_(x))₄O₈ samples with (■) x= 0.0125 and (■) x=
0.0375. The curve is a best fit curve to a Curie-like behavior of a/T+
b.

negligible. Thus it is possible to use low-temperature ESR measurements
to obtain low-temperature Knight shift data.[19, 20] To understand the
NMR data we note that the NMR shift for a metal is K_(s) + σ where K_(s)
is the Knight shift. Only the Knight shift is temperature dependent and
is proportional to the Pauli susceptibility μ_(B)²N(E_(f)) where
N(E_(f)) is the density of states at the Fermi level. For optimally
doped superconductors K_(s) is constant as the temperature is reduced
until the onset of superconductivity when K_(s) rapidly decreases to
zero as N(E_(f)) falls to zero. In the underdoped superconductor the
Knight shift gradually falls to zero as the temperature is reduced and
this fall commences well above T_(e), depending on the degree of
underdoping. This behavior is associated with the opening of a gap in
the spectrum of spin excitations observed by neutron-scattering
measurements on YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ),[23] phonon mode softening in
Y_(1 − z)Ca₂Ba₂Cu₄O₈ superconductors,[21] heat-capacity and
static-susceptibility measurements on YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) (Refs. [22] and
[23]) and in the temperature-dependent enhancement of the thermopower of
both YBa₂Cu₂O_(7 − δ) and YBa₂Cu₄O₈[10]

It can be seen in Fig. 4 that the zero-temperature Knight shift for the
main resonance increases with Zn substitution. Similar behavior has been
noted by Loram _et al.[22]_ in the temperature dependence of both the
static susceptibility and $S^{\rm gl}/T$, where $S^{\rm gl}$ is the
electronic entropy, and this was attributed to filling in of the
normal-state gap. Following their approach we model the NMR data by
noting that the spin susceptibility $\chi_{s}({\bf q},\omega)$ can be
expressed as

x_(s) = μ_(B)²∫ N(E)[−∂f(E)/∂E ]dE ,
(3)

in the long-wavelength and low-frequency limit where f(E) is the Fermi
function. We are able to satisfactorily fit the temperature dependence
of K(T) by modeling the DOS as a single step function at the gap energy
E_(g). To account for the experimentally observed gradual opening of the
gap as temperature is reduced[10, 23] the depth of the step is described
by YBa₂(Cu_(1 − x)Zn_(x))₃O_(7 − δ). We therefore have fitted the
susceptibility using a DOS with two step functions as shown in the inset
of Fig. 4, one at a low energy E₀( ∼ 10 K) and one at the gap energy
E_(g), viz.,

$$N(E) = \left\{ \begin{array}{ll}N^{\prime}\tanh(E_{0}/2kT) + (N-N_{0})[ 1 - \tanh(E_{g}/2kT)] + N_{0},&0 < E < E_{0} \\ (N-N_{0})[ 1 - \tanh(E_{g}/2kT)] + N_{0},&E_{0} \approx E < E_{g} \\ N,&E \approx E_{g} \end{array} \right.$$
(4)

where the energies E are now relative to the Fermi level, N is the
high-energy DOS, N₀ is the low-temperature DOS in the gap induced by Zn
substitution, and N^(′) is the low-energy DOS. Thus the resultant NMR
shift is, by integration,

$$K = K_{s}{\rm sech}^{2}(E_{g}/2kT) + K_{0} + K^{\prime}{\tanh}(E_{0}/2kT)\tanh(E_{g}/2kT)$$
(5)
+σ,

where K_(s) = (8D μ_(B)/g)(N − N₀), K₀ = (8D μ_(B)/g)N₀, and
K^(′) = (8D μ_(B)/g)N^(′). It is also possible to show that Eq. (5) will
still result if the step in N(E) has some curvature about E_(g) with a
finite width ΔE, provided that ΔE ≪ T/tanh (E_(g)/2kT). This is
consistent with infrared measurements on YBa₂Cu₄O₈ where N(E) is
broadened about E_(g) at high temperatures and narrowed about E_(g) at
low temperatures.[23] The density of states obtained by fitting the main
resonance NMR shifts in Fig. 4 to Eq. (5) are shown in the inset of Fig.
4 for low temperatures and the solid curves in the main figure are the
fitted K(T) curves which match the data very well. The DOS shown in the
inset confirms a low-temperature picture of a fully gapped spin spectrum
in the pure compound which is progressively filled in with Zn
substitution.

The fitted spin-gap energies for the main resonance are presented in
Fig. 5(a). These are approximately constant for Zn substitution levels
up to x = 0.0375, above which the spin gap rapidly falls to zero. This
is consistent with the model recently proposed in which the spin gap is
locally suppressed

Figure 4.: 89Y NMR shifts of the main resonance (peak 1 in Fig. 2) for
YBa₂(Cu_(1 − x)Zn_(x))₄O₈ samples with (□) x = 0, (●) x = 0.0125, (□)
x = 0.0375, and (●) x = 0.05. Also included is Gd³⁺ ESR shifts of the
central ${}^{-}\frac{1}{2} \rightarrow + \frac{1}{2}$ transition (solid
symbols) (Ref. [18]). The solid curves are fits to Eq. (3) in the text.
The K^(′), K_(s), and E₀ values for the x = 0.05 sample were estimated
from the fits to the data for x = 0, x = 0.0125, and x = 0.0375. The
inset is the modeled density of states at low temperatures. The arrows
indicate increasing Zn content.

about the Zn impurity but substantially unmodified in regions in the
plane which are remote from the Zn atom.[10, 21] Moreover the radius of
suppression must be very short, of the order of one lattice parameter a
if E_(g) remains unchanged up to x≈0.04 where the mean spacing of Zn
atoms is 3.5a. Local suppression of the spin gap is also confirmed by
the above analysis of the ⁸⁹Y NMR satellite resonance (peak 2 in Fig. 2)
attributed to ⁸⁹Y adjacent to a Zn atom. The NMR shift data for the
satellite resonance were fitted to (7100/T+58) ppm comprising only a
Curie term and a constant Pauli paramagnetism term of 58 ppm. The
absence of any other temperature dependence implies the complete
suppression of the spin gap near the Zn atom. A better estimate of the
range of suppression of the spin gap about a Zn atom can be obtained
from the data plotted in Fig. 5(b). Here we show the concentration
dependence of the ratio R of the integrated ⁸⁹Y NMR intensity of the
satellite peak to the total integrated ⁸⁹Y NMR intensity. Also shown is
K_(s) obtained by fitting the main resonance data in Fig. 4 to Eq. (3).
These data sets can be modeled as R = 16μx and K_(s) = K_(s) (x
=0)(1−16μx) indicating that the gap in the spin spectrum is completely
suppressed when x = 0.0625. For x = 0.0625 the Zn atoms are separated on
each plane by, on average, ∼2.8a, which occurs when adjacent Zn atoms
share the same next-nearest neighbor at 1.4a which is comparable to the
antiferromagnetic correlation length.[26] This implies that the spin gap
is completely suppressed at nearest-neighbor sites to a Zn atom and is
significantly suppressed at the next-nearest-neighbor sites.

In conclusion we have determined the spin susceptibility of
YBa₂(Cu_(1 − x)Zn_(x))₄O₈ from temperature-dependent ⁸⁹Y-NMR Knight
shifts in combination with Gd-ESR Knight shifts and the spin density of
states is deconvoluted from the temperature dependence of the
susceptibility. The Y resonance has a main peak associated with Y atoms
well removed from Zn atoms and a satellite peak associated with Y atoms
adjacent to a Zn atom. The shifts for the main resonance show the
opening of the spin gap compcning above 200 K. The spin gap is "filled
out" as the Zn concentration increases and is completely suppressed
when, on average, Zn atoms share the same next-nearest neighbors at x =
6.25

We thank Dr. J. W. Loran and Dr. R. G. Buckley for helpful discussions
on this work. This work has been funded by the New Zealand Foundation
for Research, Science and Technology.

## References

* [1] P. B. Littlewood _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **48**, 487 (1993). * [2]
J. Rossat-Mignod _et al._, Physica C **185-189**, 86 (1991). * [3] J. M.
Tranquada _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **46**, 5561 (1992). * [4] T. Moriya,
Y. Takahashi, and K. Ueda, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **59**, 2905 (1990). * [5]
P. Monthoux and D. Pines, Phys. Rev. Lett. **69**, 961 (1992). * [6] P.
W. Anderson, Physica C **185-189**, 11 (1991). * [7] J. W. Loram _et
al._, J. Supercond. **7**, 243 (1994). * [8] J. L. Tallon _et al._,
Physica C **235-240**, 1821 (1994). * [9] R. G. Buckley _et al._,
Physica C **174**, 383 (1991). * [10] J. R. Cooper, J. L. Tallon, P. S.
I. P. N. de Silva, and G. V. M. Williams (unpublished). * [11] R. G.
Buckley (unpublished). * [12] S. D. Obertelli, J. R. Cooper, and J. L.
Tallon, Phys. Rev. B **46**, 14 928 (1992). * [13] A. V. Mahajan _et
al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **72**, 3100 (1994). * [14] R. E. Walstedt _et
al._, Phys. Rev. B **48**, 10 646 (1993). * [15] A. J. Millis, H.
Monien, and D. Pines, Phys. Rev. B **42**, 167 (1990). * [16] M.
Takigawa, W. L. Hults, and J. L. Smith, Phys. Rev. Lett. **71**, 2650
(1993). * [17] H. Monien, D. Pines, and M. Takigawa, Phys. Rev. B
**43**, 258 (1991). * [18] A. Janossy, A. Rockenbauer, L. Korecz, G. V.
M. Williams, and J. L. Tallon (unpublished). * [19] A. Janossy, L.-C.
Brunel, and J. R. Cooper (unpublished). * [20] A. Janossy _et al._,
Phys. Rev. B **50**, 3442 (1994). * [21] R. G. Buckley _et al._, Physica
C **235-240**, 1237 (1994). * [22] J. W. Loram _et al._, _Advances in
Superconductivity VII_ (Springer-Verlag, Tokyo, in press). * [23] D. N.
Basov _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **50**, 351 (1994). * [24] M. Mehring,
Appl. Magn. Reson. **3**, 383 (1992). * [25] J. L. Loram (private
communication). * [26] J. Rossat-Mignod _et al._, Phys. Scr. **45**, 74
(1992).

Figure 5: (a) YBa₂(Cu_(1 − x)Zn_(x))₄O₈ fitted spin-gap temperatures
E_(g) for peak 1 against Zn fraction. The solid line is a guide to the
eye. (b) Fitted YBa₂(Cu_(1 − x)Zn_(x))₄O₈K_(s) values from Eq. (5)
(solid circles) and the fitted ratio of the ⁸⁹Y NMR integrated intensity
of the satellite resonance (peak 1 in Fig. 2) divided by the total
integrated intensity R (solid triangles) against Zn fraction. The solid
lines are K_(s)=K_(s)(x=0)(1−16μx) and R=1−0.16μx, respectively.
