# Pressure-induced change of the pairing symmetry in superconducting
CeCu₂Si₂

E. Lengyel,^(1, #) M. Nicklas,¹ H. S. Jeevan,^(1, †) G. Sparn,^(1, ‡) C.
Geibel,¹ F. Steglich,¹ Y. Yoshioka,² and K. Miyake²

¹Max Planck Institute for Chemical Physics of Solids, 01187 Dresden,
Germany

²Division of Materials Physics, Department of Materials Engineering
Science, Graduate School of Engineering Science, Osaka University,
Toyonaka 560-8531, Japan

###### Abstract

Low-temperature (T) heat-capacity measurements under hydrostatic
pressure of up to p ≈ 2.1 GPa have been performed on single-crystalline
CeCu₂Si₂, A broad superconducting (SC) region exists in the _T-p_ phase
diagram. In the low-pressure region antiferromagnetic spin fluctuations
and in the high-pressure region valence fluctuations had previously been
proposed to mediate Cooper pairing. We could identify these two distinct
SC regions. We found different thermodynamic properties of the SC phase
in both regions, supporting the proposal that different mechanisms might
be implied in the formation of superconductivity. We suggest that
different SC order parameters are characterizing the two distinct SC
regions.

pacs: 10.1103/PhysRevB.80.140513 + Footnote †: preprint: APS/123-QED

PACS number(s): 74.70.Tx, 74.62.Fj, 74.25.Bt, 74.20.Rp + Footnote †:
preprint: APS/123-QED

The ongoing interest in unconventional, i.e., non-s-wave,
superconductors was initiated 30 years ago by the discovery of
superconductivity in the heavy-fermion (HF) metal CeCu₂Si₂.[1] While for
conventional (BCS) superconductors a very low concentration of magnetic
impurities is generally detrimental to superconductivity, for CeCu₂Si₂
100 at.

In this paper, we study the thermodynamic properties in SC CeCu₂Si₂ by
specific-heat experiments under pressure. For the present study we have
chosen a CeCu₂Si₂ single crystal of stoichiometric composition, in which
superconductivity expels SDW order at low magnetic field but where the
SDW is recovered in an overcritical magnetic field for superconductivity
("A/S-type" CeCu₂Si₂).[12] We find different thermodynamic properties in
the two distinct SC regions, SC1 and SC2. This hints at a
pressure-induced change of the pairing symmetry.

Figure 1: Schematic _T-p_ phase diagram of CeCu₂Si₂. The dashed line
depicts the shape of the SC phase line observed experimentally. p_(c)
and p_(n) indicate the critical pressures for the magnetic and the
valence instabilities, respectively.

The A/S-type CeCu₃Si₂ single crystal was grown in an aluminum-oxide
crucible by a modified Bridgman technique, using Cu excess as flux
medium. Powder x-ray diffraction patterns confirmed the proper
tetragonal ThCr₂Si₂ structure with lattice parameters a = 0.4099 nm and
c = 0.9923 nm at 295 K. Heat-capacity measurements under hydrostatic
pressure have been performed in a single-shot ³He evaporation cryostat
by employing a compensated quasiadiabatic heat-pulse technique. In
addition, the SC transition in CeCu₂Si₂ was detected through
magnetocaloric and ac-susceptibility measurements on the same sample and
at the same pressures. A single piece of A/S-type CeCu₃Si₂ weighing
about m = 0.4 g was used for the experiments. Its residual resistivity
was ρ₀ = 10 μΩ cm, indicating a good sample quality.¹³ The magnetic
field was always applied parallel to the c axis. The measurements at low
pressures (p < 1.1 GPa) were carried out in a CuBe piston-cylinder
pressure cell, while for the high-pressure range (p ≥ 1.1 GPa) a double
layer NiCrAl-CuBe-type piston-cylinder pressure cell was utilized. For
the entire experiment, Flouirner FC72 was used as pressure transmitting
medium. A piece of in served as pressure gauge. For the whole pressure
range, the electronic specific heat ($C_{\rm el}$) was obtained by
subtracting the ambient pressure lattice specific heat of the
isostructural nonmagnetic reference compound LaCu₂Si₂.¹⁴

The temperature dependence of the low-temperature $C_{\rm el}$ of
CeCu₃Si₂ for selected pressures is shown in Fig. 2. Characteristic for
A/S-type CeCu₃Si₂, two consecutive phase transitions, can be observed at
p = 0, an upper one at $T_{\rm N}$ = 0.69 K to an incommensurate SDW
order¹⁵ and a lower one marking the onset of superconductivity at
$T_{\rm c}$ ∼ 0.46 K. Upon increasing pressure, the AF order is
gradually suppressed while superconductivity is stabilized. Above p =
0.07 GPa no anomaly indicating the onset of AF order can be observed
anymore. In the normal state, $C_{\rm el}$ of CeCu₃Si₂ decreases with
increasing pressure in the entire pressure range. This is expected for
Ce-based HF systems, where application of pressure leads to an increase
of the hybridization strength between the Ce 4/f and the conduction
electrons and hence to a decrease of the effective mass of the
quasiparticles.

Figure 3 displays the evolution of $T_{\rm c}$ as a function of pressure
for different magnetic fields as obtained from the heat-capacity
measurements. With increasing pressure, a steep initial rise of
$T_{\rm c}$(p) is followed by a pronounced maximum and, at elevated
pressure, a shallow minimum. For H = 0, $T_{\rm c,max}$ = 0.63 K at p =
0.4 GPa and $T_{\rm c,min}$ = 0.59 K at p = 1.5 GPa. We use the pressure
value of $T_{\rm c,min}$ to delineate the border between the two regions
SC1 and SC2. With increasing magnetic field the $T_{\rm c}$ values
become reduced and $T_{\rm c,min}$ shifts to higher pressures,
suggesting an increasing separation between the two SC regions. As can
be seen in Fig. 3, superconductivity in the SC2 region is suppressed
more efficiently by the magnetic field than in the SC1 region. At μ₀H =
2 T, superconductivity still exists in a very narrow pressure range at
low pressures, while in the high-pressure region there is no
superconductivity up to p ≈ 2.1 GPa. Here, the upper-critical field,
$\mu_{0}H_{\rm c2}$(0), is smaller than 1.5 T. In the low-temperature
normal state (T< 1 K, μ₀H = 2 T), $C_{\rm el}$(T) /T = const[≈ 0.4
J/(mol K²)] at p > 1.5 GPa, indicating a moderately heavy Landau
Fermi-liquid state. This leads us to conclude that in this pressure and
magnetic field range A/S-type CeCu₃Si₂ is situated far away from a QCP.

Figure 4 depicts the evolution of the H=0 normalized low-temperature
electronic specific heat under pressure. The data are presented as
$C_{\rm el}$(T)/($\gamma_{\rm M}$T) versus T/$T_{\rm c}$, where
$\gamma_{\rm n}$ is
$C_{\rm el}$/$|T|_{\rm\gamma_{\rm M}\rightarrow\rm T^{\prime}}$ in the
normal state. The specific-heat data obtained on SC CeCu₃Si₂ do not
follow the BCS prediction (dashed line), and the
$\Delta C_{\rm el}$($\gamma_{\rm M}$$T_{\rm c}$)$|_{\rm\gamma_{\rm M}\rightarrow\rm T^{\prime}}$
ratio exhibits values smaller than the BCS value of 1.43. A quasilinear
temperature dependence of $C_{\rm el}$(T)/T can be observed at
0.5$T_{\rm c}$ < T< $T_{\rm c}$ for all pressures above 0.09 GPa. A
comparison with numerical calculations of $C_{\rm el}$(T)/T (Ref. 16)
suggests that the SC state in CeCu₃Si₂ has an unconventional nature and
is characterized by a gap function having line nodes.

The normalized specific-heat data, $C_{\rm el}$(T)/($\gamma_{\rm M}$T)
versus T/$T_{\rm c}$, fall on a single curve for pressures 0.09 GPa ≤ p
≤ 0.4 GPa; in the same way, the data in the high-pressure range, 1.71
GPa ≤ p ≤ 2.03 GPa, collapse also on a single (but different) curve as
can be seen in Fig. 4(a). Figure 4(b) displaying the data for the
intermediate pressure range 0.73 GPa ≤ p ≤ 1.39 GPa reveals a gradual
shift of the data from the low-pressure to the high-pressure scaling
curve.

Figure 3: (Color online) Pressure dependence of $T_{\rm c}$ for
different values of μ₀H. The pressure dependence of $T_{\rm N}$ at H=0
is shown by the dotted line. The arrow indicates the estimated border
between the low-pressure (SC1) and the high-pressure (SC2) SC regions at
H=0.

Figure 2: (Color online) Low-temperature $C_{\rm el}$(T)/T versus T of
A/S-type CeCu₃Si₂ at H=0 for pressures as indicated in the figure.

Figure 5 presents the normalized upper-critical field
$\mu_{Q}H_{c2}(T)/T_{\rm c}$ as a function of the normalized temperature
$T/T_{\rm c}$. These data display a similar pressure evolution as
observed in the case of $C_{\rm el}(T)/(\gamma_{\rm B}T)$: two distinct
scaling curves are found for the two SC regions, and the data in the
intermediate pressure range shift gradually on increasing pressure from
the scaling curve corresponding to region SC1 to the one corresponding
to region SC2. These findings highlight that the SC order parameters in
regions SC1 and SC2 are different. The continuous evolution of the data
from SC1 to SC2 favors an overlap region between SC1 and SC2 where a
smooth crossover takes place rather than a first-order transition line
between SC1 and SC2.

At p ≥ 0.09 GPa, the values estimated for the Pauli-limiting field are
slightly smaller than those experimentally obtained for the
upper-critical field, while for the orbital-limiting field we estimate
values three to four times larger than $H_{\rm c2}(0)$. This proves that
H_(c2)(T) is strongly Pauli limited in the pressure range 0.09
GPa ≤ p < 2.1 GPa, indicating a SC order parameter of even parity,
consistent with d-wave pairing symmetry as we will discuss in the
following.

Our conclusion of different SC order parameters in CeCu₂Si₂ at low and
high pressures is corroborated by theoretical considerations. The
experimental results presented in Figs. 4(a) and 5(a) show that
$\Delta C_{\rm el}/(\gamma_{\rm B}T_{\rm c})\Gamma_{T=T_{\rm c}}^{\rm SC1}/ \Delta C_{\rm el}/(\gamma_{\rm B}T_{\rm c})\Gamma_{T=T_{\rm c}}^{\rm SC2}=\,$1.6
and
$(dH_{c2}/dT)\Gamma_{T=T_{\rm c}}^{\rm SC1}/(dH_{c2}/dT)\Gamma_{T=T_{\rm c}}^{ \rm SC2}\approx\,$1.9.
A theoretical analysis shows that even within the manifold of d symmetry
the above mentioned ratios can be different from 1 for different
symmetries of pairing: [17] by choosing the d_(x² − y²) and the d_(xy)
type pairings for the SC1 and SC2 regions, respectively, one estimates
theoretically
$\Delta C_{\rm el}/(\gamma_{\rm B}T_{\rm c})\Gamma_{T=T_{\rm c}}^{\rm d_{x^{2}-y ^{2}}}/\Delta C_{\rm el}/(\gamma_{\rm B}T_{\rm c})\Gamma_{T=T_{\rm c}}^{\rm d_{x ^{2}-y^{2}}}/(dH_{c2}/dT)\Gamma_{T=T_{\rm c}}^{\rm d_{x^{2}-y^{2}}}/(dH_{c2}/ dT)\Gamma_{T=T_{\rm c}}^{\rm d_{x^{2}-y^{2}}}\approx\,$1.8
[17] The good agreement between the experimental results and the
theoretical estimation for these quantities suggests that d_(x² − y²)
pairing is realized at the lower pressure side (region SC1) and d_(xy)
pairing is realized at the higher pressure side (region SC2). It is
reasonable that d_(x² − y²) pairing is realized in the lower pressure
region where the AF fluctuations develop due to AF quantum criticality
around ambient pressure because the AF correlations among f electrons at
adjacent sites in the basal plane are expected to promote the pairing
with d_(x² − y²) symmetry. [18] The origin of the d_(xy) pairing in the
higher pressure region should be assigned to a SC glue different from AF
fluctuations. As mentioned earlier, a promising candidate may be valence
fluctuations which are enhanced in the higher pressure region around p
≈ 5 GPa. [19, 6]

In conclusion, we found different thermodynamic properties in the two
distinct SC regions of CeCu₂Si₂. Our results support the previously made
suggestion [6, 7, 8, 9, 10] that two different mechanisms are involved
in the formation of the Cooper pairs in these two regions: in the SC1
state, pairing is likely to be mediated by AF spin fluctuations; in the
high-pressure SC state (SC2), valence fluctuations are supposed to
mediate the formation of the Cooper pairs. Superconductivity in the
low-pressure region is more robust against application of magnetic field
than in the SC2 region as indicated by the larger upper-critical fields.
Further on, we observed distinct scaling laws of
$C_{\rm el}(T)/(\gamma_{\rm B}T)$ versus $T/T_{\rm c}$ and of
$\mu_{\rm Q}H_{c2}(T)/T_{\rm c}$ versus $T/T_{\rm c}$ in the two
different SC regions. Therefore, we

Figure 4: (Color) Normalized electronic specific-heat data obtained on
CeCu₂Si₂ under pressure. The dashed line in panel (a) corresponds to the
theoretically calculated dependence for the case of a conventional
BCS-type superconductor. The two dashed lines in panel (b) serve as
references and they reproduce the data for the two distinct groups
presented in panel (a).

Figure 5: (Color) $\mu_{u}H_{c2}(T)/T_{\rm c}$ versus $T/T_{\rm c}$ for
different pressures obtained for H∥c. Lines are guides for the eyes. The
red and blue lines from panel (b) reproduce the corresponding lines from
panel (a) and serve as references for regions SC1 and SC2 presented in
panel (a).

suggest the existence of different SC order parameters in SC1 and SC2. A
theoretical analysis of our data proposes d_(x² − y)-type Cooper pairing
for the SC1 region and d_(xy)-type pairing for the SC2 region. The
existence of different SC order parameters is highly consistent with the
different mechanisms supposed to be implied in the formation of Cooper
pairs in CeCu₂Si₂. We find a smooth crossover from the SC1 to the SC2
region. Thus, this crossover region should be characterized by a SC
state where both AF spin and valence fluctuations are involved together
in the Cooper pairing. However, for a precise experimental determination
of the SC order parameters in the low- and high-pressure regimes,
field-angle dependent specific-heat experiments at low temperatures have
to be performed in the future.

This work was partly supported by the DFG under the auspices of both SFB
463 and the Research Unit 960. The work at Osaka University was
supported by a Grant-in-Aid for Scientific Research (Grant No. 19340099)
from the Japan Society for the Promotion of Science. One of us (Y.Y.) is
supported by the G-COE program (G10) from the Japan Society for the
Promotion of Science.

## References

* [1] Iengyel@cpfs.mpg.de * [2] Present address: I. Physik. Institut,
Georg-August-Universitat Gottingen, 37077 Gottingen, Germany. * [3]
Present address: Max Planck Institute for Nuclear Physics, 69117
Heidelberg, Germany. * [4] F. Steglich, J. Aarts, C. D. Bredl, W. Lieke,
D. Meschede, W. Franz, and H. Schafer, Phys. Rev. Lett. **43**, 1892
(1979). * [5] H. Spille, U. Rauchschwalbe, and F. Steglich, Helv. Phys.
Acta **56**, 165 (1983). * [6] S. Schmitt-Rink, K. Miyake, and C. M.
Varma, Phys. Rev. Lett. **57**, 2575 (1986). * [7] D. J. Scalapino, E.
Loh, and J. E. Hirsch, Phys. Rev. B **34**, 8190 (1986). * [8] F. M.
Grosche, S. R. Julian, N. D. Mathur, and G. G. Lonzarich, Physica B
**223-224**, 50 (1996). * [9] B. Bellarbi, A. Benoit, D. Jaccard, J. M.
Mignot, and H. F. Braun, Phys. Rev. B **30**, 1182 (1984). * [10] D.
Jaccard, H. Wilhelm, K. Alami-Yadri, and E. Vargoz, Physica B
**259-261**, 1 (1999). * [11] H. Q. Yuan, F. M. Grosche, M. Deppe, C.
Geibel, G. Sparn, and F. Steglich, Science **302**, 2104 (2003). * [12]
Y. Onishi and K. Miyake, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **69**, 3955 (2000). * [13]
P. Monthoux and G. G. Lonzarich, Phys. Rev. B **69**, 064517 (2004). *
[14] H. Q. Yuan, F. M. Grosche, M. Deppe, G. Sparn, C. Geibel, and F.
Steglich, Phys. Rev. Lett. **96**, 047008 (2006). * [15] F. Steglich _et
al._, Physica B **223-224**, 1 (1996). * [16] U. Rauchschwalbe, Physica
B **147**, 1 (1987). * [17] P. Hellmann (unpublished). * [18] O.
Stockert _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **92**, 136401 (2004). * [19] K.
Hasselbach, J. R. Kirtley, and J. Flouquet, Phys. Rev. B **47**, 509
(1993). * [20] Y. Yoshioka and K. Miyake (unpublished). The analysis is
based on a Ginzburg-Landau approach and takes into account the specific
Fermi surface of CeCu₂Si₂. * [21] K. Miyake, S. Schmitt-Rink, and C. M.
Varma, Phys. Rev. B **34**, 6554 (1986). * [22] A. T. Holmes, D.
Jaccard, and K. Miyake, Phys. Rev. B **69**, 024508 (2004).
