# Role of charge doping and lattice distortions in codoped
Mg1-x(AlLi)_(x)B₂ compounds

M. Monni,* C. Ferdeghini, and M. Putti

CNR-INFM-LAMIA and Dipartimento di Fisica, Universita di Genova, Via
Dodecaneso 33, 16146 Genova, Italy

P. Manfrinetti and A. Palenzona

CNR-INFM-LAMIA and Dipartimento di Chimica e Chimica Industriale,
Universita di Genova, Via Dodecaneso 31, 16146 Genova, Italy

M. Affronte

CNR-INFM-S3 and Dipartimento di Fisica, Universita di Modena e Reggio
Emilia, Via G.Campi 213/A, I-41100 Modena, Italy

P. Postorino, M. Lavagnini, A. Sacchetti, and D. Di Castro

CNR-INFM-COHERENTIA and Dipartimento di Fisica, Universita di Roma "La
Sapienza", Piazzale A. Moro 2, 00185 Roma, Italy

F. Sacchetti, C. Petrillo, and A. Orecchini

CNR-INFM CRS-SOFT and Dipartimento di Fisica, Universita di Perugia,
I-06123, Perugia, Italy

###### Abstract

We prepared a series of Mg1-x(AlLi)_(x)B₂ samples with 0≤x≤ 0.45 in
order to compensate with Li the electron doping induced by Al.
Structural characterization by means of neutron and x-ray diffraction
confirms that Li enters the MgB₂ structure even though in an amount less
than nominal one. We performed susceptibility, resistivity, and specific
heat measurements. Vibrational properties were also investigated by
means of Raman spectroscopy. We compare these results with those
obtained on a homologous series of Mg1-xAl_(x)B₂ samples. The systematic
success of scaling the relevant properties with the Al content rather
than with the electron doping suggests that lattice deformation plays an
important role in tuning the superconducting properties.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.73.214508 PACS number(s): 74.70.Ad, 74.62.Dh,
61.10.Nz, 78.30.−j + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL REVIEW B **73**,
214508 (2006)

## I Introduction

The discovery of superconductivity in MgB₂ with a critical temperature
T_(c) = 39 K renewed the interest for unique effects in two-gap
superconductors. _Ab initio_ calculations [1, 2, 3] showed that MgB₂ is
characterized by two weakly coupled gaps Δ_(σ)(0) = 7 meV and Δ_(π)(0) =
2 meV residing on disconnected sheets of the Fermi surface formed by
in-plane p_(xy) boron orbitals (σ band) and out-of-plane p_(z) boron
orbitals (π band). The two-gap Eliashberg theory has explained most of
the anomalies in superconducting and normal properties of pure MgB₂.
However, the physics of two-gap MgB₂ alloys is still poorly understood.

Chemical substitution effects have been one of the hot topics since the
beginning. Despite its simple structure and apparently simple chemistry,
MgB₂ has so far proved very difficult to modify systematically through
chemical substitutions. Various substitutions have been reported, but
only a few were successful. [4] These are the cases of Al on Mg site [4,
5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10] and of C on B site. [11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16] The
primary effect of Al -/C substitution is a drop of T_(c) which can be
ascribed to several different possible sources such as a decrease in the
density of states and the weakening of electron phonon coupling.
Moreover the activation of interband scattering with nonmagnetic
impurities mixes σ and π Cooper pairs, and, averaging the order
parameters reduces T_(c) down to the isotropic value. [17]

The role of charge doping and lattice distortions in alloyed MgB₂ is
largely debated. Recently Kortus _et al._[21] considered data of Al and
C doped samples from several groups and explained the T_(c) reduction
mainly as an effect of band filling. Moreover, in order to explain the
behavior of the gaps with doping, they proposed that interband
scattering effects are more important in C doped than in Al doped
samples. This suggestion opened a lively debate. [22, 23] In fact, it
contradicts previous calculations [20] that predict relevant interband
scattering be enhanced by c axis displacements produced by substitution
of Mg with atoms of different size, which is the case of Al, and not by
substitution of B with C. Finally, a strong T_(c) suppression has been
observed in irradiated samples [24, 25, 26] where charge doping can be
excluded. The merging of the gaps recently observed in irradiated
samples [27] proves the importance of interband scattering even if a
role of intraband scattering should be envisaged. To clarify the role of
disorder-induced interband scattering Erwin and Mazin [20] suggested a
codoping with Na and Al in the Mg sites. Such a compound, isoelectronic
with MgB₂ should present significant interband scattering due to lattice
distortions induced by substitutions of Al and Na in Mg sites and no
charge doping under the assumption that the valence of dopant can be
simply summed. Following this suggestion, recently renewed also by
Kortus, [23] we investigated the compounds Mg1-x(AlLi)_(x)B₂

We chose Li instead of Na, since, although they have the same valence,
Li shows a more favorable packaging effect owing to its atomic radius
which is comparable with that of Mg.

Several compounds of this family were first synthesized by Xu _et
al._[28] In this paper we present the preparation of Mg1-x(AlLi)_(x)B₂
polycrystalline samples with x = 0−0.45. Due to the difficult detection
of Li, a careful crystallographic characterization by x-ray (XRD) and
neutron diffraction was performed. Normal and superconducting properties
were studied by resistivity, susceptibility, and specific heat
measurements and the phonon spectrum was analyzed by Raman spectroscopy.
The results are compared with those obtained on the homologous series of
Mg1-xAliB2 samples, with the aim of clarifying the role of disorder, and
electron doping on the physical properties of MgB2. Our findings suggest
that disorder more than the electron doping, plays an important role for
the suppression of superconductivity in MgB2.

## II Sample preparation

Two series of Mg1-xAli)xB2 samples were prepared by direct synthesis of
pure elements, the first with natural Boron (0 <= x <= 0.45), and the
second with isotopically enriched 11B (_x_ = 0, 0.1, 0.2, 0.3) in order
to carry out neutron measurements. The AlLi alloy was firstly prepared
and mixed with Mg with concentration ranging from 0 to 0.45. The
Mg-(AlLi) mixture was then pressed in a pellet and put together with
crystalline B in Ta crucibles, welded in argon and closed in quartz
tubes under vacuum. The quartz tube was then placed in a vertical
furnace at 850-900 degC. The Mg-(AlLi) alloy melts and reacts in the
liquid state with the B powders; after 1 h the temperature was raised
and maintained at 1000 degC for 100 h. This procedure gave compact
cylindrical shaped samples (12 mm diameter and about 10 mm height). The
analysis of x-ray diffraction measurements carried out on the top and on
the bottom of the cylinder emphasized a little gradient of doping along
the height, being the top of the sample richer of Mg than the bottom.29

Elemental analyzes by atomic absorption spectroscopy were performed on
two samples with nominal composition Mg0.9(ALLi)01B2 and Mg0.7(ALLi)03B2
to verify if, during the process, any material loss occurred. The
analyzes showed that, within the experimental uncertainty, the atomic
percentage contents of Mg, Al, Li were equal to the nominal ones.

This preparation technique, developed for pure MgB2, was successfully
used to produce Mg1-xAliB2 samples with negligible amount of phase
separations (less than 3

## III Crystallographic characterization

The characterization of the structure of the present samples was carried
out by neutron and XRD diffraction which are discussed in the sections
III.1 and III.2, respectively.

The details of the procedure adopted to estimate the site occupancy of
the Li atoms is reported in the Appendix.

### Neutron diffraction

The identification of the site occupancy by Li atoms, which is rather
difficult by x-ray diffraction because of the low atomic scattering
power of Li, was carried out by neutron diffraction. This technique
turned out to be particularly powerful because of the contrast offered
by the negative scattering length of Li [_b_Li = -1.90(3) fm] against
the positive values for Al [_b_Al = 3.449(5) fm], Mg [_b_Mg = 5.375(4)
fm] and 11B [_b_B = 6.65(4) fm]. Moreover the use of the nonabsorbing
11B isotope made most favorable the possibility of observing the Li
atoms against the other components of the alloys. Neutron diffraction
analysis were performed on a sample series Mg1-x(ALi)x1B2 with x = 0,
0.1, 0.2, 0.3. The experiment was carried out at the high intensity
powder diffractometer D20 installed at the HFIR of the LLL (Grenoble,
France). A wavelength l = 1.322 A was selected for the monochromatic
incoming beam and the diffraction pattern was collected over the
scattering angle range 10deg < 2 ϑ < 100deg with 0.1deg step. The
samples were contained inside a vanadium cell with 0.2 mm wall thickness
and a standard cryostat was employed for the low temperature runs. The
attenuation was separately measured by transmission measurements on the
same samples used for the diffraction experiment. As an example, the
diffraction pattern measured at 20 K on the x = 0.2 sample is shown in
Fig. 2 in comparison with the spectrum collected on a pure MgB2

Figure 2: Raw neutron diffraction data versus scattering angle in MgB2
(lower curve) and Mg0.8(ALi)0.2B2 (upper curve).

sample under the same experimental conditions. As clearly apparent from
the low angle region of the data, a second crystallographic phase, other
than the C32 phase which is characteristic of MgB₂, develops in the
alloy. This second phase, which was observed in all the samples but the
MgB₂, is probably due to some Li-B compounds but it was impossible to
identify it unambiguously because of the lack of literature data (see
Sec. III.2). The second phase amount–evaluated by the integrated
intensities of the second phase in respect with those of the C32
phase–comes out roughly to be of the order 5

If Li and Al enter in the Mg site in the nominal amount, b_(Mg)^(′)
should vary as b_(Mg)^(′)=(1−x)b_(Mg)+$\frac{x}{2}$[b_(Al)+b_(Li)]: this
corresponds to the dash-dotted line in Fig. 4 which is incompatible with
the experimental results. On the opposite, if Li is not entered at all,
b_(Mg)^(′) should vary as b_(Mg)^(′)=(1−x)b_(Mg)+xb_(Al); this
corresponds to the dashed line in Fig. 4 which clearly does not match
the experimental data. The experimental data show that Li populate the
Mg site even if less than the nominal amount. The evaluation reported in
the Appendix shows that the composition dependence of the Mg site
scattering length is compatible with an Al to Li ratio roughly equal to
2:1.

### X-ray diffraction

X-ray powder patterns were collected on all the samples by a
Guinier-Stoe camera using the Cu Kα radiation and pure Si as an internal
standard (a=5.4308 A).

XRD patterns for a series of Al-Li doped samples (x=0.1, 0.2, 0.3, 0.35,
and 0.45 with natural boron) are shown in Fig. 5 [panel (a)]. Peaks of
the doped compounds are shifted in comparison with pure MgB₂ peaks and
they broaden on increasing the dopant content showing that the hexagonal
phase becomes less and less stable [see in particular the shift and
broadening of (110) and (002) reflections showed in Fig. 5(b)].

Figure 6 shows the lattice constants of the Mg_((1 − x))(AlLi)_(x)B₂.
Like in Al doped compounds, a and c axes decrease as far as the
substituted Mg increases: a axis shows a little variation (less than 0.6

Figure 4: The measured scattering length in the Mg site, b_(Mg)^(′), as
a function of x for various values of α; dash-dotted line corresponds
with an equal amount of Al and Li substituted (α=0.5); dashed line
corresponds with the case that Li is not entered at all (α=1).

Figure 3: Intensity of the Bragg peaks (100) (a) and (002) (b) measured
on the samples with x= 0, 0.1, 0.2, 0.3. Continuous lines are a guide to
the eye.

As emphasized by neutron diffraction, in the low angle region of the
alloy data, XRD peaks of some minority spurious phase are present.
Neutron diffraction analysis suggests that they could belong to a Li-B
phase. To verify this hypothesis a sample of nominal composition "LiB₂"
was purposely prepared with the same procedure as described in Sec. II.
The XRD pattern of this compound is shown in Fig. 7: at low angles
(10^(∘)< 2 θ< 35^(∘)) it presents strong reflections which do not
correspond to any other of the already known Li-B compound.

In the same figure, a magnification of the XRD pattern of the
Mg_(0.7)(ALLi)_(0.3)B₂ compound is shown. It is evident that all the
peaks of the "LiB₂" compound correspond to the spurious peaks of the
Mg_(0.7)(ALLi)_(0.3)B₂ compound. So we identify the minority phase
present in our samples as a binary Li-B compound. Considering the
relative integrated intensities of MgB₂ and "LiB₂", we can give a rough
estimate of this second phase which should not exceed 5-7

## IV Electrical and magnetic characterization

DC susceptibility measurements were performed with a SQUID magnetometer
[MPMS Quantum Design (QD)] under a magnetic field of 10 G.
Susceptibility measurements from 5 to 45 K are shown in Fig. 8(a) for
samples of different nominal composition, while Table 1 summarizes
results

Figure 5: XRD patterns for a series of Al–Li doped samples [panel (a)].
The reflections (002) and (110) as a function of doping [panel (b)].

Figure 8: Normalized dc susceptibility χ vs temperature for a series of
Mg_(1 − x)(ALLi)₃B₂ with x=0,0.05,0.1,0.2,0.3,0.35, 0.4, 0.45 [panel
(a)] and with x=0.2 [panel (b)].

Figure 6: Lattice parameter a (triangles) and c (circles) relative to
those at zero concentration (a₀=3.085 Å; c₀=3.525 Å) in
Mg_(1 − x)(ALLi)₃B₂.

Figure 7: XRD patterns of a sample of nominal composition “ LiB₂” (upper
curve) and of the Mg_(0.7)(ALLi)_(0.3)B₂ compound (lower curve).

about a series of samples. The critical temperature $T_{c}^{\rm{x}}$ is
evaluated as the mean value between the temperature respectively at the
90

To verify the reproducibility of our results, several samples with the
same nominal composition were prepared. In Fig. 8(b) the susceptibility
of four different samples with the same nominal composition
Mg0.8(Alli)0.2B2, are shown (two samples were prepared with natural
boron, the other two with isotopically enriched ¹¹B). The transition is
rather sharp in all the samples, and the transition temperatures of the
four samples vary within 2 K. Similar analysis on samples with
Mg0.9(Alli)0.1B2 nominal composition gives a T_(c) spread of about 1 K.
This corresponds to a relative error on the substituted Mg of about 10

Resistivity was measured with a four probe technique by a PPMS QD.
Resistivity measurements as a function of temperature from 20 to 300 K
are shown in Fig. 9(a) for Al-Li doped compounds. In Fig. 9(b) the
temperature range around the transition temperature is enlarged. The
transition temperature decreases monotonically with increasing the
doping and no multiple transitions are present. Residual resistivity
ρ(40) increases with doping from 2.5 μΩ cm up to 40 μΩ cm (for x=0.45).
The low ρ(40) values indicate that grain boundaries resistivity is
negligible in our samples and their monotonous increase with doping
indicates that Al-Li substitutions are effective in reducing the
electron mean free path. The residual resistivity ratio (RRR) varies
from 7.2 for the pure sample to 1.5 for heavily doped samples. Similar
values were obtained in the Al-series.[29] The critical temperatures
$T_{c}^{\rm{p}}$, estimated as the mean value between the temperature
respectively at the 90

## V Specific heat

Specific heat measurements were performed from 2 to 300 K on three Al-Li
doped samples (x=0.1,0.2,0.3)

Figure 9: Resistivity as a function of temperature for the
Mg1.=(Alli).B2 samples with x=0,0.05,0.1,0.2,0.3, 0.35,0.4, 0.45 [panel
(a)]. In the panel (b) the resistive transitions are shown in detail.

by a PPMS-7T QD using the relaxation method. For each Al-Li
concentration we performed a set of measurements between 2 and 40 K and
in magnetic field of 0, 3, 5, and 7 T. Results are plotted as c/T-vs-T²
in Fig. 10 where, for sake of clarity we plot only data in zero field
and 7 T. The superconducting contributions can be easily visualized by
comparing data in zero field with those obtained in magnetic field: the
jump at _T_(c)_ which is well pronounced in undoped MgB₂ (see Ref. 9),
gets broader as the Al-Li concentration increases. _T_(c)_ was defined
at half the specific heat anomaly and the uncertainty takes into account
the transition broadening; the dependence of _T_(c)_ on the Al-Li
concentration x is reported in Table 2. _T_(c)_ values monotonously
decrease as the doping increases as observed in the previous section by
resistivity and susceptibility measurements. It is worth noting that, as
usual, the _T_(c)_ values estimated from specific heat measurements are
lower than those estimated from resistivity and susceptibility (see
Table 1).

From data obtained at 7 T, the temperature dependence of the normal
state specific heat can be evaluated. A close data inspection reveals
that Schottky anomalies are very small for x = 0.1 and become observable
below 5 K for x = 0.2 and x = 0.3. Neglecting these low temperature
data, the curve obtained with B = 7 T were fitted from _T_(c)_(7 T) up
to 40 K by the model function _c_(_B_ = 7 T) = _gT³ + _gT⁵_ where g is
the Sommerfeld coefficient and the _T⁵_ term was introduced as a high
temperature correction to the _T³_ Debye law. Results are reported in
Table 2. As check of the reliability of the normal state parameters, we
estimated the superconducting electronic contribution _c_(sc)_ as
_c_(sn)_=_c_(_B_ = 0 T) - [_gT³_ + _gT⁵_]. The entropy difference ΔS(T)
= _gT₀⁶_(_c_(sc)/_T_ = _gT⁵_)_dT_ between the superconducting and the
normal state contribution was evaluated (see the insets of Fig. 10) and
it can be noted that ΔS actually vanishes close to _T_(c)_ for all the
measured samples as required by the entropy balance between the normal
and the superconducting state. From the analyzes of the electronic
specific heat information on the evolution of the energy gaps with the
doping can be drawn. 9 Yet, this determination is very delicate
especially for doped compounds and will be carried out elsewhere.

The fitting coefficients b, g, and d of the normal state curve are
reported in Table 2 for each Al-Li concentration. We found that g
progressively decreases from 3.0 +- 0.2 mJ/mol K² for undoped MgB₂ to
2.4 +- 0.3 mJ/mol K² for Mg_(0.7)(All Li)_(0.3)B₂. A reduction of g as a
function of Mg substituted was observed also in Al-doped samples 8 and
this can be related to both a decrease of density of state at the Fermi
level and a suppression of electron-phonon coupling. The Debye
temperature $\Theta_{\rm D}$ in the limit of low temperature is
calculated by the b coefficients as $\Theta_{\rm D}$=(1944 / _b_)1/3.
The x dependence of $\Theta_{\rm D}$ is shown in Table 2.
$\Theta_{\rm D}$ progressively decreases as the doping increases from
670 K to 580 K. This is probably due to the softening of the phonon
modes induced by the doping.

Finally, it is worth noting that specific heat provides a further check
on the sample quality. Even small amounts of spurious phases are indeed
expected to give a visible contribution to the heat capacity, since MgB₂
has low specific heat at low temperature (MgB₂ is a superconductor with
high De

Figure 10: Low temperature specific heat of Mg1-i,(All Li)₂ with x =
0.1, 0.2, 0.3 (from the top to the bottom) plotted as _c/T_ vs-_T²_. For
sake of clarity, only measurements in zero field (filled squares) and in
7 T (open squares) are reported for each sample. Insets: The entropy
difference ΔS calculated by integrating _c_(sc)/T_ − g with respect to
temperature.

bye temperature). The data analysis evidenced that the entropy balance
between the superconducting and the normal electronic state vanishes
close to T_(c) and only little Schottky anomaly are visible in data of
sample with x = 0.2 and 0.3 consistently with the fact that spurious
phases are present only in small amount. Moreover, the specific heat
values of the most doped sample at 40 K are only 10

## VI Raman Spectroscopy

Raman spectra were collected using a micro-Raman spectrometer Infinity
by Jobin Yvon. The spectrometer, equipped with a He-Ne laser source,
works in backscattering geometry and uses a CCD (charge coupling device)
detector to collect the scattered light dispersed by an 1800 line/mm
grating. A notch filter was used to reject the elastically scattered
light. The microscope, equipped with a 20X objective, allowed us to
achieve a spatial resolution of a few microns on the sample surface. For
each sample Raman spectra were collected over the expected phonon
frequency range (i.e. 200−1100 cm⁻¹) from several sample regions over
freshly cut surfaces. The spectra collected from the different sampled
areas show similar spectral features, thus suggesting a good homogeneity
degree of the samples at least over a micrometric scale. All the spectra
were analyzed by a standard fitting procedure.[5, 31] a fitting function
given by a linear combination of damped harmonic oscillator plus an
electronic term has been used to account for the phonon structures and
the diffusive electron scattering term respectively.[31] For each
sample, both the direct comparison among the spectra and the rather
close best fit values for the phonon peaks obtained from different
regions made us confident about the good sample homogeneity. The
best-fit values of phonon frequencies and widths were then averaged and
their standard deviations were used as an estimate of the experimental
uncertainty.

Raman spectra of Al doped samples are shown in panel (a) of Fig. 11. Our
data are in a good agreement with previous experimental results[5, 7]
and confirm that the Al-doping strongly affects the Raman spectrum
which, in the pure compound, is characterized by a very broad peak
centered at around 600 cm⁻¹, usually ascribed to the E_(2g) phonon mode.
The Raman spectrum of Al-doped compounds shows a high frequency two-peak
structure, absent in the undoped compounds, whose frequencies and
intensities increase with the Al content.[5, 7] Although a definite
assignment of the spectral features of the Raman spectrum has not been
agreed upon yet,[32, 33, 34] it has been suggested that the doping
dependence of high-frequency structures should be related to a
progressive reduction of the electron-phonon coupling and the consequent
mode frequency renormalization.[5]

A similar behavior is shown by the Raman spectra of the Al-Li doped
samples shown in panel (b) of Fig. 11. It is worth noting that the
factor group analysis predicts four modes at the Γ point of the
Brillouin zone for the hexagonal MgB₂: E_(w), A_(2u), E_(2g), B_(1g),
where only the E_(2g) mode is Raman active. The clear evidence of more
than a single phonon peak in doped samples is thus an apparent violation
of the selection rules. This is not unusual when dealing with disordered
and/or defective systems where a relaxation of the momentum-selection
rule may occur, leading to Brillouin zone folding and consequently to
the appearance in the Raman spectrum of additional features connected
with phonons lying beyond the zone center. In these systems the Raman
spectrum can thus reflect the features of the whole phonon density of
state. This seems to be the case of MgB₂-doped compounds where the
introduction of on-site disorder activates Raman-forbidden modes and
makes the spectrum more similar to the phonon density of states.[5] This
idea is supported by recent Raman data on C-doped MgB₂ where spectra
similar to the present ones have been obtained for very small
concentration of substituted B.[34] Under this hypothesis the present
results suggest that the whole lattice dynamic appears to be affected by
the Al doping only.

## VII Discussion and Conclusion

The present analysis of the diffraction data has shown that the codoped
compounds have the stoichiometry Mg_((1 − x))(Al_(x)Li_(1 − a))_(x)B₂,
with α∼ 2/3. Let us assume that the valence of each dopant can be summed
to give the total charge introduced per cell. So codoping with Al and Li
should leave an unbalanced number of electrons per cell equal to
[α−(1 − α)]x≈ 1/3x, that is the same amount x of substituted Mg induces
an effective charge doping x for Al-doped and only x/3 for our Al-Li
codoped samples.

Figure 12 shows the lattice parameters of
Mg_((1 − x))(Al_(x)Li_(1 − a))_(x)B₂ in comparison with those of
Mg_((1 − x))Al_(x)B₂ prepared with the same technique.[29] For both
series, the a and c axes decrease as a function of x [Fig. 12(a)]
although a smaller lattice compression is observed for the Al-Li series.
In Fig. 12(b) the lattice constants of the two series are plotted as a
function of the Al content, which in the Al-Li codoped samples is simply
given by $\frac{2}{3}x$±Δα. In this

Figure 11: Raman spectra of the Al (panel a) and Al–Li (panel b) doped
samples for different value x of the substituted Mg. The full lines are
fit to the experimental data. In the right panel the Raman spectrum of
pure MgB₂ is shown for comparison.

case, an almost complete overlap of the lattice parameters of the two
series is obtained. The success of the Al-scaling suggests that the Al
content, regardless of Li, causes the volume compression. This result is
consistent with the Li atomic radius being very similar to that of Mg.

The T_(c) values of Al-Li and Al doped samples, plotted as a function of
different variables, are compared in Fig. 13. We point out that the
critical temperatures of the two series are evaluated resistively, under
the same experimental condition and T_(c) definition. With increasing x,
T_(c) decreases almost linearly in both the sample series. Figure 13(a)
shows T_(c) versus the effective charge doping
($\frac{1}{3}x\pm 2\Delta\alpha x$ and x for the Al-Li and Al
respectively). For given charge doping value, the Al-Li samples exhibit
T_(c) values significantly lower than those of the Al doped ones,
suggesting that effects additional to charge doping induce a further
suppression of the superconductive phase. In Fig. 13(b), T_(c) is
plotted as a function of x: in this case, the Al doped samples present a
lower T_(c). Finally, in Fig. 13(c) where T_(c) versus the Al content is
shown, the data from the two series scale on the same curve. This
findings supports the idea that the superconductivity is much more
affected by the lattice distortion induced by Al substitution than by
the band filling, and, as a first approximation, the presence of Li does
not affect the critical temperature.

To enlighten the connection between lattice deformations and
superconductivity, T_(c) versus the c axis is shown in Fig. 14 where the
data from Al-Li and Al series fall on the same curve at least for high c
axis values (i.e., low doping). The Al doped series show a T_(c)
slightly but systematically lower than the Al-Li series at low c axis
values (i.e., high doping). Bearing in mind that the samples of the Al
series are doped with an effective charge larger than the Al-Li series,
the above discrepancy may be ascribed to charge effect which becomes
more important at high Al concentrations >30

In Fig. 15 we compare the Sommerfeld coefficient γ of the
Mg_((1 − x))(All_(x))_(x)B₂ with those of Mg_((1 − x))Al_(x)B₂ (from
Ref. 9). As done before, we plot γ versus charge doping [Fig. 15(a)], −x
[Fig. 15(b)] and -Al content [Fig. 15(c)]. Also in this case,
notwithstanding the large experimental uncertainty, the better scaling
parameter is the Al content: γ linearly decreases from 3 to 2.1 mJ/mol
K² with Al content increasing from 0 to 0.3.

The γ value is proportional to $N(0)(1\pm\overline{\lambda})$ where N(0)
is the density of states at the Fermi level, and $\overline{\lambda}$ is
the electron-phonon coupling constant averaged on the σ and π bands. For
the charge doping level we considered (lower than 0.3 electron/cell) the
maximum diminution of N(0) is 16

Figure 12: Lattice parameter a (triangles) and c (circles) relative to
those at zero concentration (a₀=3.085 Å; c₀=3.525 Å) in
Mg_(1 − x)(All_(x)),B₂ (empty symbols) and Mg_(1 − x)Al_(x)B₂ (filled
symbols) (Ref. 25) as a function of x [panel (a)] and aluminium content
[panel (b)].

Figure 13: T_(c) in Mg_(1 − x)(All_(x)),B₂ (empty symbols) and
Mg_(1 − x)Al_(x)B₂ (filled symbols) as a function of charge doping (a),
x (b), and Al content (c).

Figure 14: Critical temperature in Mg_(1 − x)(All_(x))_(x)B₂ (empty
symbols) and Mg_(1 − x)Al_(x)B₂ (filled symbols) as a function of c
axis.

$\overline{\lambda}$= 0.8 for undoped MgB₂ it decreases down to 0.55
increasing the Al content up to 0.3. We can conclude that Al content in
both the sample series causes a remarkable suppression of the electron
phonon coupling. Finally we compare the Raman phonon spectra of the two
sample series. In Fig. 16(a) two spectra at the same Al content (20

The overall experimental results we presented depict a consistent frame.
In both Al and Al-Li doped compounds the substitution of Al at the
Mg-sites drives the suppression of superconductivity. The reduction of
T_(c) is accompanied by a reduction of electron phonon coupling as
suggested by the Raman results and estimated by the analysis of the
Sommerfeld coefficient.

The unique result which emerges consistently from the comparison between
the two series of compounds is the estimate of the relative importance
of the main effects induced by the presence of Al in the MgB₂ lattice,
namely pointlike defects, lattice compression and σ-band filling. Since
charge doping should be substantially suppressed in our Al-Li compounds,
and Al content was proved to be the leading parameter for the scaling of
all the properties measured in Al and Al-Li series, our results point
out at a major role of the lattice deformations against charge doping.
More precisely, our data suggest that charge doping mechanism _alone_ is
not the most effective in tuning the superconducting properties. On the
other hand, lattice compression raises the Fermi level filling the σ
bands and substitutional defects produces intraband and interband
scattering. The role of the latter mechanism has been emphasized [20]
while the importance of the former is well proved by the suppression of
superconductivity in irradiated MgB₂, [24, 25, 26] where neither charge
doping nor lattice compression occur. These effects, _all together_, can
influence in substantial way the superconductivity in Al doped
compounds.

As stated before these conclusions are subjected to the hypothesis that
the valence of each dopant can be summed, that is to say lithium is able
to compensate the charge introduced by aluminum. If this is not the case
the fact that the charge is not a good scaling parameter will be not
surprising and our results should make everyone careful about summing
the charge introduced by elements, even in comparing substitutions in
the same crystal site. Even more care should be used in comparing
substitutions in different site, such as that of Al in the Mg site with
that of C in the B site.

In conclusion, the present paper reports on a detailed and extended
investigation of a series of Al-Li codoped MgB₂ samples prepared
following a procedure already successfully applied to produce
high-quality pure and Al-doped MgB₂ samples. The quality of the
presently investigated samples was controlled by means of an
exceptionally extended characterization procedure which exploited a
large number of experimental techniques and was mostly aimed at
verifying the effective amount of substitutional Li in the MgB₂ lattice.
The results here obtained show an effective Al-Li ratio close to 2:1 and
a minority phase of a binary Li-B compound (about 5

The whole of the results, when compared with those obtained on the
homologous series of Mg_(1 − x)Al_(x)B₂ samples, shows that Li has
almost no effect on the superconducting properties. In our opinion for a
more realistic comprehension of the phenomena, at least in the presently
exploited doping range, a detailed analysis of all the effects
introduced by Al and Li should be envisaged.

## Acknowledgments

Thomas Hansen from Institut Laue-Langevin (Grenoble, France) is kindly
acknowledged for providing beam time at the high-flux diffractometer
D20. Some of the authors are partially supported by Ministry of Italian
Research by a PRIN2004 project.

## Appendix: Li Occupancy Estimate

The analysis of the scattering length at the Mg site emphasized that Li
populate the Mg site even though at a lower

Figure 16: (a) Raman spectra of Mg_(0.7)(AlLi)_(0.3)B₂ and
Mg_(0.8)Al_(0.2)B₂. The frequencies ν₁ν₂, and ν₃ indicated in the panel
(a) as a function of charge doping (b) and Al content (c).

extent than the nominal amount (see Sec. III.1). This implies the
formation of a secondary phase that was identified as a Li-B phase whose
content was estimated to be less than 10

We consider the generic C32 phase Mg1-a-A(Al2Li1-a)a2B where the Li
occupancy is not fixed (being equal to 1 - a) and we introduce x_(A) as
the actual substituted Mg. Due to the presence of the spurious phase
x_(A) can be different from the nominal x. So b_(Mg)^(*) varies as

b_(Mg)^(*) = (1 − x_(A))b_(Mg) + x_(A)[αb_(Al) + (1 − α)b_(Li)].

Since the elemental analysis shows that there are no material losses
during the sample preparation (see Sec. II), we can write down the
balance equation

Mg_(1 − x)(Al_(0.5)Li_(0.5))_(x)B₂ = (1 − y)[Mg1 − x_(A)(Al₀Li_(1 − α))_(x_(A))B₂]
(2)
+y(Li_(b)Mg_(c)Al_(d)B₂).

The left-hand side corresponds to one mole of C32 phase with the nominal
composition. The right-hand side represents the result of the reaction:
a molar fraction 1 - y of a C32 phase and a molar fraction y of spurious
phases. b, c, and d are, respectively the amount of Li, Mg, and Al in
the spurious phases (_b_ + c + d = 1). A value of a different from 0.5
implies the presence of some spurious phases to keep constant the total
amount of each element.

Now we want to estimate _a_: this is accomplished performing a best fit
procedure of the experimental data by means of Eq. (1) with a as the
fitting parameter, provided that the constraints imposed by Eq (2) are
satisfied.

Starting from the simplest hypothesis x_(A) = x, we obtain a = 0.72.
This value is quite unlikely because an amount of spurious phase much
larger than our previous evaluation must be hypothesized (_y_ = 0.30 for
the x = 0.3 sample), to compensate such an excess of Al content in the
C32 phase. However, it is not necessary to set the constrain, x_(A) = x,
indeed starting from Eq. (2) and writing down three balance equations
for Li, Mg, and Al, we can solve them and perform the best fit procedure
for each given composition of spurious phase [i.e., each "_c_,d."
assigned value in Eq. (2)] obtaining a, x_(A), and y as a function of
"_c_,d."

Following the indication of the x-ray analysis which identifies a Li-B
phase we impose the constraint c = d = 0 and obtain a = 0.60 (with y =
0.05 in the x = 0.3 sample). Even if the spurious phase contains a minor
amount of Mg and Al (i.e., setting c + d 0.2) a vary from 0.58 to 0.61
and y from 0.06 to 0.07.

Even considering every possible "_c_,_d_" values, a never exceeds 0.72,
while if the total amount of spurious phases is restricted imposing y
0.15 in the x = 0.3 sample, a never exceeds 0.62.

In the end, we are confident that a value of a ranging from 0.6 to 0.72
is highly possible, being the lower more reliable than the upper limit
of the interval.

As already noted, x_(A) can be different from x, in particular it is
slightly smaller than x. It comes out that x_(A) - x is of the same
order of magnitude as arising from the preparation technique (see also
Ref. 25) and does not affect the discussion (for example in the x = 0.3
sample x_(A) - x 0.05). As a result we have taken x_(A) = x.

From the whole of these results we can conclude that the composition
dependence of the Mg site scattering length is compatible with an Al to
Li ratio roughly equal to 2:1 (_a_   2/3).

## References

* (1) A. Y. Liu, I. I. Mazin, and J. Kortus, Phys. Rev. Lett. **87**,
087005 (2001). * (2) H. J. Choi, D. Roundy, H. Sun, Marvin L. Cohen, and
S. G. Louie, Phys. Rev. B **66**, 020513(R) (2002). * (3) A. Floris, G.
Profeta, N. N. Lathiotakis, M. Luders, M. A. L. Marques, C. Franchini,
E. K. U. Gross, A. Continenza, and S. Massidda, Phys. Rev. Lett. **94**,
037004 (2005). * (4) R. Cava, H. W. Zandbergen, and K. Inumare, Physica
C **385**, 8 (2003). * (5) P. Postorino, A. Congeduti, P. Dore, A.
Nucara, A. Bianconi, D. Di Castro, S. De Negri, and A. Saccone, Phys.
Rev. B **65**, 020507(R) (2001). * (6) A. Bianconi, S. Agrestini, D. Di
Castro, G. Campi, G. Zangari, N. L. Saini, A. Saccone, S. De Negri, M.
Giovannini, G. Profeta, A. Continenza, G. Satta, S. Massidda, A.
Cassetta, A. Pifferi, and M. Colapietro, Phys. Rev. B **65**, 174515
(2001). * (7) B. Renker, K. B. Bohnen, R. Heid, D. Ernst, H. Schober, M.
Koza, P. Adelmann, P. Schweiss, and T. Wolf, Phys. Rev. Lett. **88**,
067001 (2002). * (8) J. S. Slusky, N. Rogado, K. A. Regan, M. A.
Hayward, P. Khalifah, T. He, K. Inumaru, S. M. Loureiro, M. K. Haas, H.
W. Zandbergen, and R. J. Cava, Nature (London) **410**, 343 (2001). *
(9) M. Putti, M. Affronte, P. Manfrinetti, and A. Palenzona, Phys. Rev.
B **68**, 094514 (2003). * (10) J. Karpinski, N. D. Zhigadlo, G. Schuck,
S. M. Kazakov, B. Batlogg, K. Rogacik, R. Puzniak, J. Jun, E. Muller, P.
Wagli, R. Gonnelli, D. Daghero, G. A. Ummarino, and V. A. Stepanov,
Phys. Rev. B **71**, 174506 (2005). * (11) A. Bharathi, S. Jemima
Balaselvi, S. Kalavathi, G. L. N. Reddy, V. Sankara Sastry, Y.
Hariharan, and T. S. Radhakrishnan, Physica C **370**, 211 (2002). *
(12) R. A. Ribeiro, S. L. Bud’ko, C. Petrovic, and P. C. Canfield,
Physica C **384**, 227 (2003). * (13) R. H. T. Wilke, S. L. Bud’ko, P.
C. Canfield, D. K. Finnemore, R. J. Suplinskas, and S. T. Hannahs, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **92**, 217003 (2004). * (14) T. Masui, S. Lee, and S.
Tajima, Phys. Rev. B **70**, 024504 (2004). * (15) R. S. Gonnelli, D.
Daghero, A. Calzolari, G. A. Ummarino, Valeria Dellarocca, V. A.
Stepanov, S. M. Kazakov, N. Zhigadlo, and J. Karpinski, Phys. Rev. B
**71**, 060503(R) (2005). * (16) S. M. Kazakov, R. Puzniak, K. Rogacik,
A. V. Mironov, N. D. Zhigadlo, J. Jun, Ch. Soltmann, B. Batlogg, and J.
Karpinski, Phys. Rev. B **71**, 024533 (2005).

* [17] A. A. Golubov and I. I. Mazin, Phys. Rev. B **55**, 15146
(1997). * [18] O. de la Pena, A. Aguayo, and R. de Coss, Phys. Rev. B
**66**, 012511 (2002). * [19] G. Profeta, A. Continenza, and S.
Massidda, Phys. Rev. B **68**, 144508 (2003). * [20] S. C. Erwin and I.
I. Mazin, Phys. Rev. B **68**, 132505 (2003). * [21] J. Kortus, O. V.
Dolgov, R. K. Kremer, and A. A. Golubov, Phys. Rev. Lett. **94**, 027002
(2005). * [22] P. Samuely, P. Szabo, P. C. Canfield, and S. L. Bud’ko,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **95**, 099701 (2005) * [23] J. Kortus, O. V. Dolgov,
R. K. Kremer, and A. A. Golubov, Phys. Rev. Lett. **95**, 099702
(2005). * [24] R. Gandikota, R. K. Singh, J. Kim, B. Wilkens, N. Newman,
J. M. Rowell, A. V. Pogrebnyakov, X. X. Xi, J. M. Redwing, S. Y. Xu, and
Qi Li, Appl. Phys. Lett. **86**, 012508 (2005). * [25] M. Putti, V.
Braccini, C. Ferdeghini, F. Gatti, P. Manfrinetti, D. Marre, A.
Palenzona, I. Pallecchi, C. Tarantini, I. Sheikin, H. U. Aebersold, and
E. Lehmann, Appl. Phys. Lett. **86**, 112503 (2005). * [26] R. H. T.
Wilke, S. L. Bud’ko, P. C. Canfield, J. Farmer, and S. T. Hannahs, Phys.
Rev. B **73**, 134512 (2006). * [27] M. Putti, M. Affronte, C.
Ferdeghini, P. Manfrinetti, C. Tarantini, and E. Lehmann, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **96**, 077003 (2006). * [28] G. J. Xu, J.-C. Grivel, A. B.
Abrahamsen, X. P. Chen, and N. H. Andersen, Physica C **399**, 8
(2003). * [29] M. Putti, C. Ferdeghini, M. Monni, I. Pallecchi, C.
Tarantini, P. Manfrinetti, A. Palenzona, D. Daghero, R. S. Gonnelli, and
V. A. Stepanov, Phys. Rev. B **71**, 144505 (2005). * [30] B. Birajdar,
T. Wenzel, P. Manfrinetti, A. Palenzona, M. Putti, and O. Eibl,
Supercond. Sci. Technol. **18**, 572 (2005). * [31] S. Yoon, H. L. Liu,
G. Schollerer, S. L. Cooper, P. D. Han, D. A. Payne, S. W. Cheong, and
Z. Fisk, Phys. Rev. B **58**, 2795 (1998). * [32] M. Calandra and F.
Mauri, Phys. Rev. B **71**, 064501 (2005). * [33] I. Loa, K. Kunc, K.
Syassen, and P. Bouvier, Phys. Rev. B **66**, 134101 (2002). * [34] J.
Arvanitidis, K. Papagelis, K. Prassides, G. A. Kourouklis, S. Ves, T.
Takenobu, and Y. Iwasa, J. Phys. Chem. Solids **65**, 73 (2004).
