# Energy gap from tunneling and metallic contacts onto MgB₂:

Possible evidence for a weakened surface layer

Herbert Schmidt,^(1, 2) J. F. Zasadzinski,^(1, 2) K. E. Gray,¹ and D. G.
Hinks¹

¹Materials Sciences Division, Argonne National Laboratory, Argonne,
Illinois 60439

²Physics Division, Illinois Institute of Technology, Chicago, Illinois
60616

22 February 2001; published 18 May 2001

###### Abstract

Point-contact tunnel junctions using a Au tip on sintered MgB₂ pellets
reveal a sharp superconducting energy gap that is confirmed by
subsequent metallic contacts made on the same sample. The peak in the
tunneling conductance and the metallic contact conductance follow the
BCS form, but the gap values of 4.3 − 4.6 meV are less than the
weak-coupling BCS value of 5.9 meV for the bulk T_(c) of 39 K. The low
value of Δ compared to the BCS value for the bulk T_(c) is possibly due
to chemical reactions at the surface.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.63.220504

PACS number(s): 75.30.Vn, 75.30.Et, 75.60.−d

The surprising discovery[1] of superconductivity in a known, simple
binary compound, MgB₂, with a high T_(c) of 39 K has initiated a flurry
of activity to understand its properties. A significant isotope
effect[2] strongly implies that phonon coupling is important for the
mechanism. To complete this picture, one should observe strong-coupling
effects in the electron tunneling density of states and connect them via
the Eliashberg theory to the recently measured[3] phonon density of
states.

We report here on point-contact tunnel junctions using a Au tip on
sintered MgB₂ pellets that reveal a sharp energy gap, Δ, of 4.3− 4.6
meV, a value that is confirmed by subsequent metallic contacts[4] made
on the same sample. The peak in the tunneling conductance follows a
_thermally_ smeared BCS density of states for T∼ 4.2 K. The contact
resistances varied from ∼ 10 to 1200 Ω with the higher values showing
tunneling characteristics that exhibit a superconducting gap at low
voltages and at high voltages relatively low noise and only a small
parabolic conductance correction that implies a high-quality tunneling
barrier with a height significantly above 100 meV. Thus these junctions
are attractive candidates to explore strong-coupling effects. Initial
scanning-tunneling microscopy (STM) reports exhibit significantly
smaller gaps[5] or larger in-gap currents and much greater smearing.[6]

An additional advantage of point-contact tunneling is in its ability to
form metallic contacts, made _in situ_ using the same sample and Au tip.
The increased conductance below Δ in metallic contacts is due to Andreev
reflections,[7] that are an unmistakable feature of superconductivity,
whereas well-developed gap structures in point-contact tunneling and STM
could be due to other effects, such as charge-density waves[8] or
small-particle charging.[9] In one case we see the factor of 2
conductance increase that is predicted for a metallic contact in the
limit of vanishing barrier height,[7] and results in Δ = 4.3 meV.
However, in both cases, Δ is less than the weak-coupling BCS value of
5.9 meV for the bulk T_(c) of 39 K, and possible explanations are
discussed below.

The MgB₂ sample was synthesized from high purity 3 mm diameter Mg rod
and isotopic ¹¹B (Eagle Picher, 98.46 at.

Figure 1 shows the current, I, and the differential conductance, dI/dV,
plotted against voltage V at a temperature, T∼ 4.2 K. Included is a fit
to the thermally smeared BCS density of states for T= 4.2 K,Δ = 4.3 meV
and without a smearing parameter, Γ. Although the agreement in the peak
region is acceptable, it is possible that slight sample inhomogeneities
affect the width and height of the conductance peaks. An excess current
is seen at zero bias and that can also affect the agreement below the
peak voltage.

Figure 2 shows a few more of the large number of tun

Figure 1: For a particular point-contact tunnel junction between a Au
tip and a sintered sample of MgB₂, the current (thin line) and the
differential conductance (small dots) are plotted against voltage V at a
temperature, T∼ 4.2 K. Included is a fit (thick line) to the thermally
smeared BCS density of states for T= 4.2 K.

neling junctions made. Out to voltages of 100 meV, these low-resistance
point-contact tunnel junctions appear electrically stable and show no
evidence of heating effects or dielectric breakdown: thus the native
barrier is suitable for sensitive spectroscopy measurements. The data
exhibit only a small parabolic term in the high-voltage conductance (∼
20

The observation of a conductance peak at zero bias deserves further
discussion, especially in light of the fact that such peaks are used
[12] as evidence for a d-wave gap symmetry in the high-T_(c) cuprates
(HTS). The peaks in HTS junctions arise from Andreev bound states that
develop when quasiparticles scatter off a vacuum interface and change
the sign of the order parameter as might occur for d-wave symmetry. [13]
However, this effect _can be ruled out_ as an explanation of our data
because of the very sharp coherence peaks found at the gap voltage and
the junction to junction variation that is seen in Fig. 3. The Andreev
bound state peak removes spectral weight from the coherence peaks and
thus they should appear considerably broadened as is found
experimentally [12] in HTS junctions and is predicted theoretically.
[13] However, as we have shown, our conductance peaks fit very well by
an s-wave, BCS density of states, broadened by little more than would be
expected from thermal smearing alone. Examination of the I-V
characteristics in Fig. 1 suggests the appearance of a Josephson-like
origin for the zero-bias conductance peak. Thus a more likely
explanation is a parallel conductance channel, perhaps from a
filamentary piece of the MgB₂ that has a low-resistance Ohmic contact to
the Au tip and contacts the bulk MgB₂ with a higher-resistance Josephson
junction. When the critical current of this contact is exceeded, its
large normal-state resistance is shunted by the
superconductor-insulator-normal metal junction.

In addition to the tunneling junctions, manipulation of the Au tip could
produce the characteristics shown in Fig. 4 of a metallic contact. [4,
7] Whereas gaps in point-contact tunneling and STM could be due to other
effects such as charge-density waves [8] or small-particle charging, [9]
the increased conductance below Δ in metallic contacts is an
unmistakable feature of superconductivity, due to Andreev reflections.
[7] We find an equally sharp gap feature (also at Δ = 4.3 meV) in the
metallic contact of Fig. 4, and a conductance curve that is quite close
to the Blonder-Tinkham-Klapwijk (BTK) model [7] that predicts a factor
of 2 conductance change (dashed line). The dips seen at zero bias and at
larger voltages are not understood but are systematically seen here and
in metallic contacts made on YBa₂Cu₃O₇ single crystals. [14] Multiple
Andreev reflections seem unlikely as the counterelectrode is a normal
metal, Au.

In fact, all our data can be fit to the BTK model using its one
parameter, the dimensionless barrier strength, Z. The I-V for
high-barrier tunneling junctions (e.g., Fig. 1) is found in the limit of
Z≫ 1, and the pure metallic contact (e.g., Fig. 4) is found for Z≪ 1.
The conductance data in Fig. 3 are fit with intermediate values of Z, in
the T= 0 limit of the BTK model, and slightly larger gaps, Δ = 4.6 meV.
The absence

Figure 3: The low-voltage conductance peaks, shown for the same
junctions as in Fig. 2, indicate reasonably sharp coherence peaks, but
variable subgap conductivities and zero-bias peaks. One shows the
complete absence of the zero-bias peak and two of these are fit to the
BTK model using intermediate Z values of 0.7 and 1 and Δ = 4.6 meV.

Figure 2: The main panel shows a few more of the large number of
tunneling junctions made. The data exhibit only a small parabolic term
in the high-voltage conductance that implies high-quality tunneling with
a barrier height significantly above 100 meV. Inset: symmetry of the
data with respect to the voltage-bias polarity is shown by a plot of |I|
against |V| for both polarities.

of sharp discontinuities in the data of Fig. 3 reflect the finite
temperature, but possibly also sample inhomogeneity.

Since the energy gap values (4.3−4.6 meV) are quite robust in a number
of junctions and by two techniques, the fact that Δ is consistently
smaller than the BCS weak-coupling limit must be taken seriously. In
addition, recent NMR results [15] imply the bulk gap is ∼40

In summary, a well-defined relatively sharp energy gap feature at
4.3−4.6 meV is seen consistently in metallic contacts and high-quality
(high-barrier) tunnel junctions. Each are consistent with a BCS density
of states that is at most only very slightly smeared. The low value of Δ
compared to the bulk T_(c) is possibly due to a chemically modified
surface layer that could also weaken the intergrain coupling of sintered
samples. [20] In order to investigate the intrinsic phonon coupling in
bulk MgB₂ by tunneling, this weakened surface layer must be eliminated.
Our observation of a robust native barrier on MgB₂ could have positive
implications for devices, especially if thin films become available.

This research was supported by the U.S. Department of Energy, Basic
Energy Sciences–Materials Sciences, under Contract No. W-31-109-ENG-38.

## References

* [1] J. Nagamatsu, N. Nakagawa, T. Muranaka, Y. Zenitani, and J.
Akimitsu, Nature (London) **410**, 63 (2001). * [2] S.L. Bud’ko, G.
Lapetrot, C. Petrovic, C.E. Cunningham, N. Anderson, and P.C. Canfield,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **86**, 1877 (2001); D. G. Hinks, H. Claus, and J. E.
Jorgensen, Nature (London) (to be published). * [3] R. Osborn, E.A.
Goremychkin, A.I. Kolesnikov, and D.G. Hinks, Phys. Rev. Lett. (to be
published). * [4] Such metallic contacts were introduced in Yu.V.
Sharvin, Zh. Eksp. Teor. Fiz. **48**, 984 (1965) [Sov. Phys. JETP
**21**, 655 (1965)], but it is not clear whether our junctions are in
the ballistic regime of the Sharvin limit. * [5] G. Rubio-Bollinger, H.
Suderow, and S. Vieira, cond-mat/0102242 (unpublished). * [6] G.
Karapetrov, M. Iavarone, W. K. Kwok, G. W. Crabtree, and D. G. Hinks,
Phys Rev. Lett. **86**, 4374 (2001). * [7] G.E. Blonder, M. Tinkham, and
T.M. Klapwijk, Phys. Rev. B **25**, 4515 (1982). * [8] H. Haifeng and Z.
Dianlin, Phys. Rev. Lett. **82**, 811 (1999). * [9] K. Mullen, E.
Ben-Jacob, and S. Ruggiero, Phys. Rev. B **38**, 5150 (1988). * [10] N.
Tralshawala, J.F. Zasadzinski, L. Coffey, W. Gai, M. Romalis, Q. Huang,
R. Vaglio, and K.E. Gray, Phys. Rev. B **51**, 3812 (1995). * [11] J.E.
Hirsch and F. Marsiglio, Phys. Rev. B **62**, 15 131 (2000); J.E.
Hirsch, cond-mat/0102115 (unpublished). * [12] M. Aprili, M. Covington,
E. Badica, and L.H. Greene, Physica B **284**, 1864 (2000). * [13] M.
Fogelstrom, D. Rainer, and J.A. Sauls, Phys. Rev. Lett. **79**, 281
(1997). * [14] K. E. Gray, E. R. Moog, and M. E. Hawley, in
_International Discussion Meeting on High T_(c) Superconductors_, edited
by H.

Figure 4: An equally sharp gap feature (also at Δ = 4.3 meV) is seen in
the metallic Sharvin contacts, that exhibit an _I_-_V_ curve (solid
line) and conductance curve (small dots) that is quite close to the
theoretical prediction (Ref. [7]) (dashed line). The dip at zero bias is
similar to that seen (Ref. [14]) in metallic Sharvin contacts made on
YBa₂Cu₃O₇ single crystals.

Weber (Plenum, New York, 1988), pp. 221-224. * [15] H. Kotegawa, K.
Ishida, Y. Kitaoka, T. Muranaka, and J. Akimitsu, cond-mat/0102334
(unpublished). * [16] W.L. McMillan, Phys. Rev. **175**, 537 (1968). *
[17] D. G. Hinks, B. Dabrowski, and J. E. Jorgensen (unpublished). *
[18] E. Saito, T. Takenobu, T. Ito, Y. Iwasa, K. Prassides, and T.
Arima, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter **13**, L267 (2001). * [19] See
_Handbook of Physical Quantities_, edited by I. S. Grigoriev and E. Z.
Meilikhov (CRC Press, Boca Raton, FL, 1988), Chap. 3, that indicates a
room-temperature value of 40 MPa for Au and typical increases in other
metals including Cu by a factor of 2−3 at liquid hydrogen temperature
(20 K). * [20] Although Larbalestier _et al._, Nature (London) **410**,
186 (2001), conclude that their polycrystalline forms of MgB₂ are
strongly linked in comparison to the highly anisotropic high-T_(c)
cuprates, their critical current densities are still far below the limit
of flux pinning; [K.E. Gray, R.T. Kampwirth, J.W. Murduck, and D.W.
Capone, Physica C **152**, 445 (1988)].
