Quantum critical behavior in heavily doped LaFeAsO1-_x_H_x_ pnictide
superconductors analyzed using nuclear magnetic resonance

R. Sakurai

¹ N. Fujiwara

^(1,) N. Kawaguchi

¹ Y. Yamakawa

² H. Kontani

² S. Iimura

^(3, 4) S. Matsuishi

^(3, 4) and H. Hosono

¹Graduate School of Human and Environmental Studies, Kyoto University,
Yoshida-Nihonamatsu-cyo, Sakyo-ku, Kyoto 606-8501, Japan ²Department of
Physics, Nagoya University and JST, TRIP, Furo-cho, Nagoya 464-8602,
Japan ³Material and Structures Laboratory (MSL), Tokyo Institute of
Technology, 4259 Nagatsuda, Midori-ku, Yokohama 226-8503, Japan
⁴Frontier Research Center (FRC), Tokyo Institute of Technology, 4259
Nagatsuda, Midori-ku, Yokohama 226-8503, Japan

###### Abstract

We studied the quantum critical behavior of the second antiferromagnetic
(AF) phase in the heavily electron-doped high-T_(c) pnictide,
LaFeAsO1-_x_H_x_, by using a ⁷⁵As and ¹H nuclear magnetic resonance
(NMR) technique. In the second AF phase, we observed a spatially
modulated spin-density-wave-like state up to x = 0.6 from the NMR
spectral line shape and detected a low-energy excitation gap from the
nuclear relaxation time T₁ of ⁷⁵As. The excitation gap closes at the AF
quantum critical point (QCP) at x ≈ 0.49. The superconducting phase in a
lower-doping regime contacts the second AF phase only at the AF QCP, and
both phases are segregated from each other. The absence of AF critical
fluctuations and the enhancement of the in-plane electric anisotropy are
key factors for the development of superconductivity.

pacs: 2 Footnote 2: 10.1103/PhysRevB.91.064509

PACS number(s): 74.25.Dw, 74.20.−z, 74.25.Ha, 74.25.nj

The prototypical high-transition-temperature (T_(c)) iron-based
pnictide, LaFeAsO1-_x_H_x_, can accept high electron doping and has led
to two new discoveries: (i) H doping leads to a superconducting (SC)
phase with double domes [1] following a stripe-type antiferromagnetic
(AF) phase, and (ii) further H doping leads to a second AF ordering [2]
following the SC double domes. The appearance of the second AF ordering
is exotic because one expects a Fermi-liquid state upon heavy carrier
doping in high-T_(c) compounds. Thus, the intriguing question is as
follows: what is the origin of the second AF ordering? The simplest
model is the interband nesting between electron pockets because heavy H
doping causes the hole pockets to shrink and the electron pockets to
expand [1,3]. This nesting model predicts an incommensurate
spin-density-wave (SDW) state with the nesting vector
$q=(\pi,\frac{\pi}{3})$ or $(\frac{\pi}{3},\pi)$[3], similar to the
(π, 0) or (0, π) nesting vector between electron and hole pockets
leading to stripe-type ordering [4]. The nesting between electron
pockets is compatible with superconductivity with s⁺⁺-wave symmetry [5,
6, 7]: however, it is not compatible with spin-fluctuation-mediated
superconductivity with s^(±)-wave symmetry [8, 9] because it involves a
sign change of the SC gap between two electron pockets linked by the
nesting vector. Another theoretical investigation that supports
spin-fluctuation-mediated superconductivity suggests that
next-nearest-neighbor hopping between iron sites plays a key role in the
heavily H-doped regime [10]. The origin of the second AF ordering is
deeply associated with SC pairing symmetry.

To elucidate the high-T_(c) mechanism behind the second AF phase, we
focus on quantum criticality around the second AF-phase boundary and
investigate electronic states from a microscopic viewpoint using a
nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) technique for ¹H, ⁷⁵As, and ¹³⁹La. We
prepared 44

The NMR spectra were measured at 35.1 MHz to cover signals from ¹H
(I = 1/2), ⁷⁵As (I = 3/2), and ¹³⁹La (I = 7/2) nuclei with an 8-Tesla
superconducting magnet. The relaxation time (T₁) for ⁷⁵As was measured
at 48.2 kOe. The signals at 48.2 kOe come from the powder samples with
the basal iron planes parallel to the applied field H. From these
spectra and T₁, we found that the 44

Figure 1 shows the relaxation rate 1/T₁ divided by temperature (T) for
various H-doping levels x. For the 49

Below T_(N), 1/T₁T exhibits activated T dependence:

$$\frac{1}{T_{1}T}\propto\alpha+e^{-\Delta/T},$$
(1) where the activation energy Δ decreases from 710 to 40 K with the
H-doping level decreasing from 60

Now consider x = 0.44. Suppression of AF fluctuations, namely, pseudogap
behavior, is manifested as a plateau in 1/T₁T ranging from 70 to 20 K
followed by the SC gap at low temperatures. The onset temperature is
shown as T^(*) in Fig. 2(c). The pseudogap behavior is also observed in
1/T₁T for x = 0.40, where explicit Curie-Weiss behavior is absent, as
shown by T^(*) in Fig. 1. The plateau of 1/T₁T above T^(*) would reflect
the density of states, and therefore the pseudogap behavior, which is
widely observed at temperatures above T_(c) or T_(N), is attributable to
the suppression of AF fluctuations and/or the density of states. For
x = 0.44, superconductivity with T_(c) = 20 K emerges, accompanied by a
drop in 1/T₁T. The appearance of superconductivity was also confirmed
from the detuning of the NMR tank circuit, which is plotted as the
resonance-frequency shift in Fig. 2(d). However, for x = 0.49, the T
dependence of 1/T₁T in Fig. 2(b) shows no indication of
superconductivity. These results suggest that the AF and SC phases are
segregated from each other in the electronic phase diagram. The lack of
successive SC and AF transitions upon decreasing temperature excludes
the possibility of the homogeneous coexistence of AF and SC states,
unlike Ba(Fe_(1 − x)Co_(x))₂As₂[17, 18] and Ca(Fe_(1 − x)Co_(x))AsF
[19].

on the in-plane anisotropy of the electric-field gradient
$\eta\equiv\frac{V_{xy}-V_{xz}}{V_{xz}}$: the line shape at 120 K for
heavily H-doped samples is asymmetric because of large η (≈0.6), whereas
that for lightly F-doped samples has a two-peak structure because of
small η ( ≈ 0 − 0.1).

In the first AF phase, the signals from both ⁷⁵As and ¹³⁹La are
rectangular, as seen in Fig. 3(a), reflecting uniform AF moments. A
rectangular powder pattern is derived without any specific conditions
[19]. For small amounts of F doping, the spectra were unchanged except
for a hump at 45 kOe that comes from minor PM (or SC) domains [14].
Unlike the spectra for the first AF phase, those for the second AF phase
were of cusp type up to x = 0.6, suggesting that spin moments are
spatially modulated or a SDW state is realized throughout the second AF
phase. The cusp-type pattern comes from summing the rectangular-type
patterns with different H spans.

One can estimate the value of the maximum spin moments by comparing ¹H
and ¹⁹F spectra. Figure 4(a) shows ¹H spectra for the 60

Figure 4: (Color online) ¹H NMR spectra for 60

Figure 5: (Color online) (a) Low-energy AF-excitation gap determined
from Eq. (1) as a function of H concentration x. (b) Phase diagram of
LaFeAsO_(1 − x)F_(x) and LaFeAsO_(1 − x)H_(x). The structural transition
temperatures (T_(s)) [14; 21] and the antiferromagnetic (AF) transition
temperatures (T_(N)) [4; 21] of LaFeAsO_(1 − x)F_(x) are shown by open
and closed squares, respectively. The superconducting transition
temperatures (T_(c)) were determined from resistivity measurements
(closed and open red circles) [1; 20], detuning of the NMR tank circuit
(open red triangles), and 1/T_(t) (closed red triangles). T_(N) of
LaFeAsO_(1 − x)H_(x) were determined from 1/T_(t) (closed blue
triangles) and the linewidth (closed blue squares). Pseudogap behavior
is seen at temperatures below T^(*). The yellow-shaded regime shows the
enhancement of the in-plane electric-field-gradient anisotropy η.

Figure 3: (Color online) ⁷⁵As and ¹³⁹La NMR spectra measured at 35.1
MHz. (a) Spectra in the AF phases for LaFeAsO_(1 − x)F_(x) and
LaFeAsO_(1 − x)H_(x). The illustration indicates powder patterns of the
AF phase for the lightly F-doped samples. A part of the data for the
F-doped samples is taken from Ref. [14]. (b),(c) Comparison of spectra
between the AF and PM phases.

states, and T_(N) determined from the linewidth agree well with those
obtained from 1/T₁T. Following the NMR results, the recent
neutron-scattering measurements confirmed the existence of the second AF
phase and suggested a uniform spin configuration with spin moments of
1.22μ_(B)[22]. Regarding high-energy fluctuations, an
inelastic-neutron-scattering peak was observed at q = (π, 0.35π) for
x = 0.4, which suggests an incommensurate SDW state [23]. The
discrepancy of how the spin configuration looks is currently an open
problem.

The phase diagram obtained from NMR measurements is summarized in Fig.
5(b). As seen in Fig. 5(a), a fairly large AF-excitation gap defined by
Eq. (1) likely closes at x ≈ 0.49; hence, the AF quantum critical point
(QCP) is deduced as x ≈ 0.49, whereas an AF QCP is undefined for the
first AF phase [20, 21]. The electronic state at the AF phase boundary
gives a clue to determine pairing symmetry. Homogeneous coexistence of
AF and SC states around the first AF-SC phase boundary more likely
occurs for s^(±)-wave symmetry than for s⁺⁺-wave symmetry [24, 25, 26,
27]. Our present work shows no indication of the coexistence of the AF
and SC order parameters, and the SC phase contacts the AF phase only at
the AF QCP. In this respect, the superconductivity with s⁺⁺-wave
symmetry would be more advantageous than that with s^(±)-wave symmetry,
if the above-mentioned theories are applicable for the heavily H-doped
regime.

By comparing the two SC-AF phases in Fig. 5(b), one finds that the
second SC dome has a higher T_(c) and a wider doping regime than the
first SC dome. For this phenomenon, both spin and orbital properties
seem to play key roles. Unlike the case of the first AF phase, AF
critical fluctuations are absent in the second AF phase; hence, the
superconductivity likely develops in a wider x region that is free from
strong AF fluctuations. As for the orbital properties, the SC domes
favor large η because the second SC dome is close to the large-η region,
as shaded in yellow in Fig. 5(b). The enhancement of η suggests the
differentiation of d-orbital occupation weight or orbital ordering. The
enhancement of η and the emergence of the pseudogap occurs [see T^(*) in
Fig. 5(b)] in the same doping region, which implies that the suppression
of strong AF fluctuations and/or the density of states is deeply
associated with the orbital degrees of freedom, or the orbital ordering.
In this work, we have focused on heavy H doping in LaFeAsO_(1 − x)H_(x).
Recently, another SC double-dome structure was observed in
LaFe(As_(1 − x)P_(x))(O_(1 − y)F_(y)) [28, 29, 30]. A systematic study
would increase understanding of high-T_(c) mechanisms in pnictides.

In summary, we studied the quantum critical behavior of the second AF
phase for LaFeAsO_(1 − x)H_(x). The AF spin configuration is a spatially
modulated SDW-like state up to x = 0.6. We detected the low-energy
AF-excitation gap in the second AF phase: the gap of 710 K at x = 0.6
closes at the AF QCP (x ≈ 0.49). The AF and SC phases contact each other
only at the AF QCP, and both phases are segregated from each other. The
suppression of AF fluctuations and the enhancement of in-plane electric
anisotropy emerge in the same doping region. These quantities are
associated with the pseudogap behavior and the orbital degrees of
freedom, respectively, and are key factors to explain why the second SC
dome manifests itself over a wider doping regime compared with the first
SC dome.

The NMR work is supported by a Grant-in-Aid for Scientific Research,
KAKENHI (Grant No. 23340101) from the Ministry of Education, Science,
Culture, Sports, and Technology, Japan. This work was supported in part
by the JPSJ First Program. We thank T. Morinari, K. M. Kojima, and R.
Kadono for discussions.

## References

* [1] S. Iimura, S. Matsuishi, H. Sato, T. Hanna, Y. Muraba, S. W. Kim,
J. E. Kim, M. Takata, and H. Hosono, Nat. Commun. **3**, 943 (2012). *
[2] N. Fujiwara, S. Tsutsumi, S. Iimura, S. Matsuishi, H. Hosono, and Y.
Yamakawa, and H. Kontani, Phys. Rev. Lett. **111**, 097002 (2013). * [3]
Y. Yamakawa, S. Onari, H. Kontani, N. Fujiwara, S. Iimura, and H.
Hosono, Phys. Rev. B **88**, 041106(R) (2013). * [4] C. de la Cruz, Q.
Huang, J. W. Lynn, J. Li, W. Ratcliff II, J. L. Zarestky, H. A. Mook, G.
F. Chen, J. L. Luo, N. L. Wang, and P. Dai, Nature (London) **453**, 899
(2008). * [5] H. Kontani and S. Onari, Phys. Rev. Lett. **104**, 157001
(2010). * [6] H. Kontani, T. Saito, and S. Onari, Phys. Rev. B **84**,
024528 (2011). * [7] S. Onari, Y. Yamakawa, and H. Kontani, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **112**, 187001 (2014). * [8] I. I. Mazin, D. J. Singh, M. D.
Johannes, and M. H. Du, Phys. Rev. Lett. **101**, 057003 (2008). * [9]
K. Kuroki, S. Onari, R. Arira, H. Usui, Y. Tanaka, H. Kontani, and H.
Aoki, Phys. Rev. Lett. **101**, 087004 (2008). * [10] K. Suzuki, H.
Usui, S. Iimura, Y. Sato, S. Matsuishi, and H. Hosono, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**113**, 027002 (2014). * [11] T. Moriya, Y. Takahashi, and K. Ueda, J.
Phys. Soc. Jpn. **59**, 2905 (1990). * [12] A. Smerald and Nic Shannon,
Phys. Rev. B **84**, 184437 (2011). * [13] M. Klanjsek,P. Jeglic, B. Lv,
A. M. Guloy, C. W. Chu, and D. Arcon, Phys. Rev. B **84**, 054528
(2011). * [14] N. Fujiwara, T. Nakano, Y. Kamihara, and H. Hosono, Phys.
Rev. B **85**, 094501 (2012). * [15] T. Nakano, N. Fujiwara, Y.
Kamihara, M. Hirano, H. Hosono, H. Okada, and H. Takahashi, Phys. Rev. B
**82**, 172502 (2010). * [16] Y. Nakai, K. Ishida, Y. Kamihara, M.
Hirano, and H. Hosono, Phys. Rev. B **79**, 212506 (2009). * [17] M. H.
Julien, M.-H. Julien, H. Mayaffre, M. Horvatic, C. Berthier, X. D.
Zhang, W. Wu, G. F. Chen, N. L. Wang, and J. L. Luo, Europhys. Lett.
**87**, 37001 (2009). * [18] Y. Laplace, J. Bobroff, F.
Rullier-Albenque, D. Colson, and A. Forget, Phys. Rev. B **80**,
140501(R) (2009). * [19] T. Nakano, S. Tsutsumi, N. Fujiwara, S.
Matsuishi, and H. Hosono, Phys. Rev. B **83**, 180508(R) (2011). * [20]
Y. Kamihara, T. Watanabe, M. Hirano, and H. Hosono, J. Am. Chem. Soc.
**130**, 3296 (2008).

* [21] H. Luetkens, H.-H. Klauss, M. Kraken, F. J. Litterst, T.
Dellmann, R. Klingeler, C. Hess, R. Khasanov, A. Amato, C. Baines, M.
Kosmala, O. J. Schumann, M. Braden, J. Hamann-Borrero, N.Leps, A.
Kondrat, G. Behr, J. Werner, and B. Buchner, Nat. Mater. **8**, 305
(2009). * [22] M. Hiraishi, S. Iimura, K. M. Kojima, J. Yamaura, H.
Hiraka, K. Ikeda, P. Miao, Y. Ishikawa, S. Torii, M. Miyazaki, I.
Yamauchi, A. Koda, K. Ishii, M. Yoshida, J. Mizuki, R. Kadono, R. Kumai,
T. Kamiyama, T. Otomo, Y. Murakami, S. Matsuishi, and H. Hosono, Nat.
Phys. **10**, 300 (2014). * [23] S. Iimura, S. Matsuishi, M. Miyakawa,
T. Taniguchi, K. Suzuki, H. Usui, K. Kuroki, R. Kajimoto, M. Nakamura,
Y. Inamura, K. Ikeuchi, S. Ji, and H. Hosono, Phys. Rev. B **88**,
060501(R) (2013). * [24] A. B. Vorontsov, M. G. Vavilov, and A. V.
Chubukov, Phys. Rev. B **79**, 060508(R) (2009). * [25] R. M. Fernandes
and J. Schmalian, Phys. Rev. B **82**, 014521(R) (2010). * [26] M.
Hoyer, S. V. Syzranov, and J. Schmalian, Phys. Rev. B **89**, 214504
(2014). * [27] Y. Matsui, T. Morinari, and T. Tohyama, J. Phys. Soc.
Jpn. **83**, 094703 (2014). * [28] H. Mukuda, F. Engetsu, K. Yamamoto,
K. T. Lai, M. Yashima, Y. Kitaoka, A. Takemori, S. Miyasaka, and S.
Tajima, Phys. Rev. B **89**, 064511 (2014). * [29] K. T. Lai, A.
Takemori, S. Miyasaka, F. Engetsu, H. Mukuda, and S. Tajima, Phys. Rev.
B **90**, 064504 (2014). * [30] S. Kitagawa, T. Iye, Y. Nakai, K.
Ishida, C. Wang, G.-H. Cao, Z.-A. Xu, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **83**, 023707
(2014).
