Structural and physical properties of SmFe_(1 − x)Ir_(x)AsO (0 <= x <=
0.275) obtained by synchrotron x-ray diffraction, Raman spectroscopy,
and magnetization measurements

Beatrice Maroni,¹ Lorenzo Malavasi,^(1,) M. Cristina Mozzati,² Marco S.
Grandi,² Adrian H. Hill,³ Daniele Chermisi,⁴ Paolo Dore,⁵ and Paolo
Postorino⁴

¹Dipartimento di Chimica Fisica "M. Rolla," INSTM (UMR Pavia) and
IENI-CNR, Universita di Pavia, Viale Taramelli 16, 27100 Pavia, Italy

²CNISM, Unita di Pavia and Dipartimento di Fisica "A. Volta," Universita
di Pavia, Via Bassi 6, I-27100 Pavia, Italy

³European Synchrotron Radiation Facility, BP 220, F-38043 Grenoble,
France

⁴CNR-IOM and Dipartimento di Fisica, Universita di Roma "La Sapienza,"
P.le A.Moro 2, 00185 Rome, Italy

⁵CNR-SPIN and Dipartimento di Fisica, Universita di Roma "La Sapienza,"
P.le A.Moro 2, 00185 Rome, Italy

2 June 201020 tional solid-state reactions using high-purity SmAs, Ir,
Fe, and Fe₂O₃ according to synthesis procedures employed before in our
group.[16, 17] Each sample batch was about 500 mg. SmAs was prepared
starting from Sm rods (NewMetals >99.9

For the synchrotron x-ray diffraction measurements, the
SmFe_(1 − x)Ir_(x)AsO (0 ≤x≤ 0.275) samples were sealed in borosilicate
capillaries (0.5 mm diameter) and measured at a wavelength of λ =
0.399792 $\AA$ at selected temperature points from room temperature down
to 4 K on the high-resolution powder diffractometer beamline ID31 at
ESRF (Grenoble). Data analysis was performed by Rietveld analysis.
Samples were spun on the axis of the diffractometer to reduce any
preferred orientation and packing effects.

Raman spectra were measured in backscattering geometry using a confocal
micro-Raman spectrometer equipped with a 632.8 nm laser and a charge
coupled device detector. The use of a 100× objective allowed a sample
area (≈2 μm²) to carefully select on which the laser beam was focused.
In order to prevent sample heating the laser power on the sample was
kept around 2 mW.[18] Since SmOFeAs is a very poor Raman scatterer,[19]
spectra with a good signal-to-noise ratio were collected within the
100−600  cm⁻¹ range by setting long acquisition times (120 s) and a
large number of spectra were averaged (10).

## III Results

### Synchrotron x-ray diffraction

According to room-temperature synchrotron x-ray diffraction data for the
SmFe_(1 − x)Ir_(x)AsO (0 ≤x≤ 0.275) samples all the investigated
compositions possess a tetragonal structure (space group P4/nmm) at room
temperature. Close inspection of the patterns reveal that the samples
quality is high with, in some cases, detectable impurities which are
always below ∼3

Figure 1 reports, as a selected example, a typical Rietveld refinement
of an experimental diffraction pattern (in particular the figure refers
to the x = 0.275 sample). Figure 2 shows the trend of lattice parameters
a(b) and c as a function of Ir doping at 295 K. A clear expansion of the
a(b) parameters occurs coupled to a more significant compression of the
c parameter. These results corroborate with previous structural data
reported by Chen _et al.[10]_ Detailed structural results obtained from
the refinement at room temperature are reported in Table 1.
Interestingly, the cell volume does not show any sensible variation
within the broad Ir-doping range explored with a possible trend toward a
slight expansion from 131.955(6) $\AA^{3}$ for x = 0 to 132.154(6)
$\AA^{3}$ for x = 0.275 (see Table 1).

Figure 3 reports the patterns collected at 30 K on the
SmFe_(1 − x)Ir_(x)AsO (0 ≤x≤ 0.275) samples in selected 2θ regions. It
is clear that low Ir-doped samples (x = 0, 0.03, 0.04) present a peak
splitting at this temperature while samples above x = 0.06 have a single
peak. This peak splitting comes from the presence of an orthorhombic
distortion (space group, s.g., _Cmma_) which has previously been
observed in several members of the 1111 iron pnictides. In particular,
panel (A) of Fig. 3 shows the splitting of the tetragonal (111)
reflection to (021) and (201) reflections in the

Figure 1: (Color online) Rietveld refined pattern of
SmFe_(0.725)Ir_(0.275)AsO at room temperature. The red empty circles
(black empty circles) represent the experimental pattern, the black line
the calculated pattern, the blue (black) horizontal line the difference,
and the vertical green (black) bars at the bottom of the pattern are the
Bragg peaks positions for the refinement.

Figure 2: Lattice parameters vs Ir content for the SmFe_(1 − x)Ir_(x)AsO
solid solution (0 ≤x≤ 0.275) at 295 K.

orthorhombic structure. Panel (B) shows the splitting of the tetragonal
reflection (220) to (040) and (400) reflections of the orthorhombic
structure.

The sample with x = 0.06 has a clear asymmetric peak shape as can be
inferred from Fig. 3 even though a splitting cannot be resolved as in
samples with x < 0.06. As a matter of fact, a suitable Rietveld
refinement of this composition could be achieved again by considering
the _Cmma_ orthorhombic space group with final lattice parameters at 30
K of a = 5.5717(4) A, b = 5.5806(4) A, and c = 8.4419(8) A. As can be
appreciated, the orthorhombic distortion is very small but detectable
thanks to the high-resolution data collected on the samples. We stress
that this peak asymmetry, indicative of a reduced symmetry, is clearly
visible in the patterns of the x = 0.06 sample at 5 and 30 K while
symmetric peaks are found at the next temperature measured, i.e., 100 K.
Figure 4 shows the trend of a, b, and c lattice parameters at 5 K as a
function of Ir doping.

From the structural data obtained by means of Rietveld refinement we
determined the bond-length and bond-angle values as a function of Ir
doping at 300 and 5 K which are plotted in Figs. 5 and 6. As can be
appreciated the Fe-As bond length does not substantially change along
with the Ir doping at both temperatures while the a and b As-Fe-As
angles significantly move from their initial values at x = 0. For the
bond angles, the comparison of RT and 5 K data indicates that the a
As-Fe-As angle is more affected by the temperature lowering as can be
appreciated by the significant increase of the angle value passing from
RT to 5 K.

### Magnetic properties

The samples investigated in this work have been measured by means of
superconducting quantum interference device magnetometry in order to
study their superconducting properties. Figure 7 shows the magnetic
response of the samples in a 5 G field (field-cooling measurements).
Samples with x = 0.06, 0.11, and 0.16 have clear superconducting
transitions with a _T_C of 18.0 K at x = 0.06, 18.3 K at x = 0.11, and
17.3 K at x = 0.16. Superconducting fraction increases with x and
reaches a maximum at x = 0.11. Samples with x < 0.06 are not SC
(superconducting) and with a clear antiferromagnetic transition (see,
for example, the curve of Fig. 7 for x = 0.04, zero-field-cooling and
field-cooling measurements, in this case) while samples with x > 0.16
are not superconducting without any sign of long-range magnetic order. A
possible very small SC fraction can be detected in the x = 0.25 sample
even though the bulk of the sample is not SC.

Figure 4: Lattice parameters vs Ir content for the SmFe_(1→)Ir_(x)AsO
solid solution (0 ≤ x ≤ 0.275) at 5 K. a and b lattice parameters in the
orthorhombic structure have been divided by $\sqrt{2}$.

Figure 3: Synchrotron _x_-ray patterns collected at 30 K on the
SmFe_(1→)Ir_(x)AsO (0 ≤ x ≤ 0.275) samples in selected 2 _θ_ regions.

### Raman spectroscopy

The pure and the Ir-doped samples have been investigated by means of
micro-Raman spectroscopy to verify the chemical homogeneity of the
sample over the micron scale and to study the effects of the Ir doping
on the lattice dynamics. All the Raman spectra collected from several
points of the x = 0 sample showed the three dominant lines at 170, 200,
and 210 cm-1 [see Fig. 8(a)], already observed in previous Raman
studies.[19, 20] The 170 cm-1 line is due to a phonon mode of A1g
symmetry (mainly involving Sm atoms), the 200 cm-1 to a phonon of A1g
symmetry (As atoms), and the 210 cm-1 line to a phonon of B1g symmetry
(Fe atoms). The absence of other spurious peaks allows us to rule out
the presence of detectable amount of impurities (e.g., samarium oxide),
previously evidenced in SmFeAsO samples by Raman spectroscopy.[20] We
notice that Raman spectra collected at different points on the sample
surface can show different relative intensities of the phonon peaks [see
the spectra labeled P1 and P2 in Fig. 8(a)]. This must be ascribed to
polarization effects, since the intensity of the Raman peaks can depend
on the angle between the laser polarization and the possible preferred
orientation of the crystallites in the scattering volume.

Typical Raman spectra collected on the Ir-doped samples (_x_ = 0.06,
0.11, 0.25, and 0.275) are also reported in Fig. 8(a). On increasing the
Ir content, disorder increases in the solid solution, and the Raman
lines decrease in intensity and broaden. In particular, it is no longer
possible to resolve the two lines at 200 and 210 cm-1 and at x = 0.275
the measured Raman signal becomes very low and only poor-quality spectra
can be obtained. As to the peak frequencies _o_i, no significant change
occurs on increasing the Ir content, as shown in Fig. 8(b) where the
_o_i values resulting from a standard line-shape analysis of a large
number of spectra are reported. In particular, the peak frequency of the
line due to the B1i mode involving Fe atoms does not appreciably change
when the heavier Ir substitutes Fe. This behavior shows, on one hand,
that the lattice dynamics of the Fe-As atoms are not remarkably affected
by Ir doping and, on the other hand, bearing in mind that phonon line
arises from a collective excitation of an ordered network, that a
sufficiently long-range order is not established even in the solid
solution with 27.5

Figure 5: Fe-As bond length vs Ir content for the SmFe1-xIrAsO solid
solution (0 ≤ x ≤ 0.275) at 295 and 5 K.

Figure 6: (Color online) As-Fe-As bond angles (_α_ and _β_) vs Ir
content for the SmFe1-xIrAsO solid solution (0 ≤ x ≤ 0.275) at 295 and 5
K. Red (light gray) and blue (dark gray) circles represent the _α_
angles at 295 K and 5 K, respectively. Red (light gray) and blue (dark
gray) stars represent the _β_ angles at 295 K and 5 K, respectively.

## IV Discussion

The study of _TM_-doped 1111 iron pnictides is of great interest since
it may shed further light on the relative role of structure and doping
on the physical properties of these new systems. Ir doping in the
SmFeAsO lattice gives origin to the formation of a solid solution as
witnessed by the linear change of lattice parameters. The doping with Ir
leads also to the disappearance (for x > 0.06) of the
tetragonal-to-orthorhombic (T → O) transition found in the parent
compound SmFeAsO and to the insurgence of a SC state, thus making the
system to evolve in an analogous way as the F doping. As a matter of
fact, Ir has a stable oxidation state higher than Fe²⁺ and this implies
that an aliovalent cation substitution on the Fe site has, in terms of
charge balance, the analogous effect of F doping on the O site. However,
several differences between the two kinds of doping are clearly visible.
From the point of view of $T_{\rm C}$, once the threshold for the
insurgence of the superconducting state has been reached (in the present
case x = 0.06) the critical temperature has no substantial dependence
with the Ir doping (and consequently on the charge-carrier doping).
Another interesting feature is that the maximum $T_{\rm C}$ is already
observed at x = 0.06, that is in a sample which is orthorhombic in the
temperature range of the insurgence of the superconducting state and the
$T_{\rm C}$ is significantly lower with respect to that expected by a
similar charge doping due to fluorine substitution for oxygen. In
addition, the trend of Raman modes suggests that electronic effects do
not take a strong part in the evolution of the phonon spectra with Ir
doping.

If we look at the trend of bond angles, it is possible to observe that
the tetrahedral (α) angle (at RT) moves from ∼110^(∘) at x = 0 to
∼111.9^(∘) at x = 0.275. It is well known that a close correlation
exists between the value of this angle (at RT) and the $T_{\rm C}$ with
maximum critical temperatures found in correspondence of the "ideal"
tetrahedral angle of 109.4^(∘). However, if one compares the range of α
values where superconductivity emerges[21] it is clear that, just
considering this structural parameter, all the composition of the
SmFe_(1 − x)Ir_(x)AsO solid solution are well within the range where
$T_{\rm C}$ above 20-30 K should be observed. This result is a clear
demonstration that this simple structural dependence of iron pnictides
physical properties does not hold in Fe-site-substituted samples, even
for an analogous charge doping. The system we have chosen is even more
suitable to such a demonstration since the Fe(Ir)-As average bond length
has minimal variation with doping. Also the absence of a maximum
$T_{\rm C}$ for angles closer to the tetrahedral value suggests that
other parameters affect the insurgence and dependence of critical
temperature with doping.

Further insight on the behavior of _TM_-doped iron pnictides can be
inferred from a comparison with other doped phases. Very recently, a
deep and thorough investigation on the NdFe_(1 − x)Co_(x)AsO solid
solution has been reported.[22] A close inspection of the experimental
results on this system shows a number of quite remarkable similarities
with the data reported in this work. For example, the range of Co doping
where superconductivity emerges resembles very closely the one of the
SmFe_(1 − x)Ir_(x)AsO system as well as for the trend in bond angles and
other structural parameters such as the region of T → O transition
existence. However, the two systems–apart for the different _RE_–contain
either a 3d (Co) or 5d (Ir) element and as a consequence more
significant differences should be expected if the electronic properties
of the transition metal are the essential ingredient in determining the
physical properties of Fe-site-doped systems. Other compositions such as
LaFe_(1 − x)Ir_(x)AsO show a maximum $T_{\rm C}$ for x ∼ 0.075 (11.8 K)
while LaFe_(1 − x)Ni_(x)AsO presents the maximum critical temperature
for a very low doping of about 0.04 ($T_{\rm C}$ = 6.1 K).

Overall, one can make use of all the available experimental data on
_TM_-doped iron pnictides and try to look for meaningful correlations.
Figure 9 [panel (A)] reports the trend of critical temperatures as a
function of _c_/_c_0 (chosen as relevant parameter for the reason
explained below) for all the available doped samples of the
LaFe_(1 − x)_TM__(x)AsO system (Refs. 1-7). _c_/_c_0 has been calculated
as the ratio between the _c_-axis value for the _TM_-undoped sample and
the c value at a defined doping. We highlight that the data plotted in
this figure are those related to compositions, within each
LaFe_(1 − x)_TM__(x)AsO solid solution, displaying the maximum
$T_{\rm C}$. As can be appreciated from the plot, a good correlation
exists between the compressibility induced on the c axis by the _TM_
doping and the critical temperature. As a matter of fact, all these
doped samples show huge variations of the c axis along with doping
levels while the a axis remains only slightly

Figure 8: (Color online) (a) Typical Raman spectra collected on the x =
0, 0.06, 0.11, 0.25, and 0.275 samples. In the x = 0 case, spectra
collected in two different points (P1 and P2) are shown. Vertical dashed
lines mark the frequency of the three dominant Raman lines (170, 200,
and 210  cm⁻¹). (b) Peak frequency values $\omega_{\rm i}$ resulting
from a standard line-shape analysis of a large number of measured
spectra, as a function of the Ir content x.

doping dependent. This correlation seems to be solid irrespective to the
fact that some of the dopant ions could lead to a charge doping due to
the difference in the valence state between the Fe and _TM_ ion (but,
unfortunately, up to now no systematic x-ray absorption spectroscopy
investigation of doped samples has been carried out in the
literature–future measurements of this kind on several systems are
planned). The use of _c_/_c_0 parameter has been chosen in order first
to mimic the effect of an applied external pressure and then because the
actual ion size of _TM_ dopants is not well known due to the lack of
information regarding their oxidation state. For the
LaFe_(1 − x)_TM__(x)AsO solid solution the _T_C increases from about 6 K
(Ni doping)[8] to 16 K (Rh doping)[9] as the _c_/_c_0 values reduces.
Interestingly, in the undoped LaFeAsO system, a superconducting state
(_T_C = 13.5 K) is induced by an external pressure of about 1.7 GPa,[23]
then a maximum _T_C of about 20 K is observed around 5 GPa with _T_C
staying constant up to 20 GPa before the critical temperature starts
decreasing. This results in a _T_C vs P phase diagram with a typical
dome shape which is actually found in all the undoped or lightly F-doped
samples of the iron pnictide family. We stress here that this is also
the typical shape found in the phase diagrams of all the _TM_-doped
(F-undoped) iron pnictides. If structural data as a function of pressure
for the LaFeAsO system were available, one could try to compare the
effect of a hydrostatic pressure (which actually acts also on the
_a_-axis compressibility even though in a less pronounced way with
respect to the c axis) to that of the chemical pressure (substantially
only effective on the c direction) induced by the chemical doping on the
Fe site.

An additional evidence of this chemical pressure effect induced by the
_TM_ doping on the Fe site can be inferred by looking at Fig. 9 [panel
(B)]. In this case we have plotted the _T_C vs _c_/_c_0 for distinct
_RE_Fe_(1 − x)_TM__(x)AsO systems keeping constant the _TM_ dopant and
showing the dependence with the R. This is a more expected correlation
related to the increase of _T_C with reduction of the _R_-site volume
which mimics the external pressure. The robustness of the correlation is
further appreciable due to the fact that we are plotting samples with
variable concentrations of _TM_ ions which show the maximum _T_C within
their specific _RE_Fe_(1 − x)_TM__(x)AsO solid solution.

As we already pointed out above, the classical dome-shaped _T_C vs x
phase diagram found in _TM_-doped iron pnictides may be substantially
correlated with the lattice compression induced by the doping element.
By increasing chemical pressure (as occurs with hydrostatic pressure)
the critical temperature passes through a more or less pronounced
dome-shaped phase diagram and then decreases and vanishes. Very recently
it has been suggested that in underdoped iron pnictides the application
of an external pressure favors the setup of antiferromagnetic
fluctuations which predominates at high pressure and would suppress
development of superconductivity, namely, remarkable enhancement of
_T_C.[24] Interestingly, _TM_ overdoped _RE_FeAsO samples become
antiferromagnetic.[22]

## V Conclusion

In this paper we have carefully investigated the structural and physical
properties of the SmFe_(1 − x)Ir_(x)AsO solid solution (0 ≤ x ≤ 0.275)
chosen as a case study. Our data confirms the positive role of doping in
terms of insurgence of superconductivity and suppression of the T → O
transition. Increasing doping levels lead to the disappearance of
superconductivity while preserving the tetragonal structure, despite
AsFe(Ir)-As bond angles within the range where superconductivity should
be observed. The set of data collected in this paper have been used
together with available literature results on similar _TM_-doped
_RE_FeAsO compounds in order to try to understand the peculiar behavior
of these phases. A possible explanation based on a pure chemical
pressure effect has been proposed and corroborated by experimental data.
Based on these observations, further experimental and theoretical works
seem highly desirable and urgently needed.

###### Acknowledgements.

We gratefully acknowledge funding from CARIPLO Foundation (Project No.
2009-2540 "Chemical Control and Doping Effects in Pnictide
High-temperature Superconductors") and the ESRF for providing beam time.

Figure 9: (Color online) Panel (A): the trend of critical temperatures
as a function of _c_/_c_0 for several doped samples of the
LaFe_(1 − x)_TM__(x)AsO system (Refs. 1–7). Panel (B): _T_C vs _c_/_c_0
for distinct _RE_Fe_(1 − x)_TM__(x)AsO systems (_TM_ = Co and Ir) (Refs.
4–7).

* [4] Corresponding author. FAX: +39-(0)382-987575;
lorenzac.malavasi@unipv.it * [5] Y. Kamihara, T. Watanabe, M. Hirano,
and H. Hosono, J. Am. Chem. Soc. **130**, 3296 (2008). * [6] H.
Luetkens, H.-H. Klauss, M. Kraken, F. J. Litterst, T. Dellmann, R.
Klingeler, C. Hess, R. Khasanov, A. Amato, C. Baines, M. Kosmala, O. J.
Schumann, M. Braden, J. Hamann-Borrero, N. Leps, A. Kondrat, G. Behr, J.
Werner, and B. Buchner, Nature Mater. **8**, 305 (2009). * [7] A. J.
Drew, Ch. Niedermayer, P. J. Baker, F. L. Pratt, S. J. Blundell, T.
Lancaster, R. H. Liu, G. Wu, X. H. Chen, I. Watanabe, V. K. Malik, A.
Dubroka, M. Rossle, K. W. Kim, C. Baines, and C. Bernhard, Nature Mater.
**8**, 310 (2009). * [8] J. Zhao, Q. Huang, C. de la Cruz, S. Li, J. W.
Lynn, Y. Chen, M. A. Green, G. F. Chen, G. Li, Z. Li, J. L. Luo, N. L.
Wang, and P. Dai, Nature Mater. **7**, 953 (2008). * [9] G. Lang, H.-J.
Grafe, D. Paar, F. Hammerath, K. Manthey, G. Behr, J. Werner, and B.
Buchner, Phys. Rev. Lett. **104**, 097001 (2010). * [10] C. Wang, Y. K.
Li, Z. W. Zhu, S. Jiang, X. Lin, Y. K. Luo, S. Chi, L. J. Li, Z. Ren, M.
He, H. Chen, Y. T. Wang, Q. Tao, G. H. Cao, and Z. A. Xu, Phys. Rev. B
**79**, 054521 (2009). * [11] A. S. Sefat, A. Huq, M. A. McGuire, R.
Jin, B. C. Sales, D. Mandrus, L. M. D. Cranswick, P. W. Stephens, and K.
H. Stone, Phys. Rev. B **78**, 104505 (2008). * [12] G. Cao, S. Jiang,
X. Lin, C. Wang, Y. Li, Z. Ren, Q. Tao, C. Feng, J. Dai, Z. Xu, and
F.-C. Zhang, Phys. Rev. B **79**, 174505 (2009). * [13] S. Muir, A. W.
Sleight, and M. A. Subramanian, Mater. Res. Bull. **45**, 392 (2010). *
[14] Y. L. Chen, C. H. Cheng, Y. J. Cui, H. Zhang, Y. Zhang, Y. Yang,
and Y. Zhao, J. Am. Chem. Soc. **131**, 10338 (2009). * [15] S. A. J.
Kimber, A. Kreyssig, Yu.-Z. Zhang, H. O. Jeschke, R. Valenti, F.
Yokaichiya, E. Colombier, J. Yan, T. C. Hansen, T. Chatterji, R. J.
McQueeney, P. C. Canfield, A. I. Goldman, and D. N. Argyriou, Nature
Mater. **8**, 471 (2009). * [16] P. L. Alireza, Y. T. C. Ko, J. Gillett,
C. M. Petrone, J. M. Cole, G. Gonzalez, and S. E. Sebastian, J. Phys.:
Condens. Matter **21**, 012208 (2009). * [17] Y. Qi, L. Wang, Z. Gao, D.
Wang, X. Zhang, Z. Zhang, and Y. Ma, EPL **89**, 67007 (2010). * [18] C.
de la Cruz, Q. Huang, J. W. Lynn, J. Li, W. Ratcliff II, J. L. Zarestky,
H. A. Mook, G. F. Chen, J. L. Luo, N. L. Wang, and P. Dai, Nature
(London) **453**, 899 (2008). * [19] T. J. Liu, J. Hu, B. Qian, D.
Fobes, Z. Q. Mao, W. Bao, M. Reehuis, S. A. J. Kimber, K. Prokes, S.
Matas, D. N. Argyriou, A. Hiess, A. Rotaru, H. Pham, L. Spinu, Y. Qiu,
V. Thampy, A. T. Savici, J. A. Rodriguez, and C. Broholm, Nature Mater.
**9**, 718 (2010). * [20] G. A. Artioli, L. Malavasi, M. C. Mozzati, and
Y. Diaz-Fernandez, J. Am. Chem. Soc. **131**, 12044 (2009). * [21] L.
Malavasi, G. A. Artioli, C. Ritter, M. C. Mozzati, B. Maroni, B. Pahari,
and A. Caneschi, J. Am. Chem. Soc. **132**, 2417 (2010). * [22] A.
Paolone, A. Sacchetti, T. Corridoni, P. Postorino, and R. Cantelli,
Solid State Ionics **170**, 135 (2004). * [23] V. G. Hadjiev, M. N.
Iliev, K. Sasmal, Y. Y. Sun, and C. W. Chu, Phys. Rev. B **77**, 220505
(2008). * [24] C. Marini, C. Mirri, G. Profeta, S. Lupi, D. Di Castro,
R. Sopracase, P. Postorino, P. Calvani, A. Perucchi, S. Massidda, G. M.
Tropeano, M. Putti, A. Martinelli, A. Palenzona, and P. Dore, EPL
**84**, 67013 (2008). * [25] K. Ishida, Y. Nakai, and H. Hosono, J.
Phys. Soc. Jpn. **78**, 062001 (2009). * [26] A. Marcinkova, D. A. M.
Grist, I. Margiolaki, T. C. Hansen, S. Margadonna, and Jan-Willem G.
Bos, Phys. Rev. B **81**, 064511 (2010). * [27] H. Takahashi, H. Okada,
K. Igawa, Y. Kamihara, M. Hirano, H. Hosono, K. Matsubayashi, and Y.
Uwatoko, J. Supercond. Novel Magn. **22**, 595 (2009). * [28] T. Nakano,
N. Fujiwara, K. Tatsumi, H. Okada, H. Takahashi, Y. Kamihara, M. Hirano,
and H. Hosono, Phys. Rev. B **81**, 100510(R) (2010).
