# Superconductivity in gallium-substituted Ba₈Si₄₆ clathrates

Yang Li,^(1, 2, 3, •) Ruihong Zhang,¹ Yang Liu,¹ Ning Chen,¹ Z. P. Luo,⁴
Xingqiao Ma,¹ Guohui Cao,¹ Z. S. Feng,⁵ Chia-Ren Hu,³ Joseph H. Ross,
Jr.^(3, •)

¹Department of PhysicsDepartment of Physics University of Science and
Technology Beijing Beijing Beijing 100083, China

²Department of Engineering Science and Materials University of Puerto
Rico at Mayaguez, Mayaguez, Puerto Rico 00681-9044, USA

³Department of Physics Texas A&M University College Station Texas
77843-4242, USA

⁴Microscopy and Imaging Center Texas A&M University College Station
Texas A&M University College Station Texas 77843-2257, USA

⁵Department of Mathematics University of Texas-Pan American Edinburg
Texas 78541, USA

25 October 2006200616 February 200725 October 2006200616 February 200725
October 2006200616 February 2007

###### Abstract

We report a joint experimental and theoretical investigation of
superconductivity in Ga-substituted type-I silicon clathrates. We
prepared samples of the general formula Ba₈Si₄₆,Ga_(x), with different
values of x. We show that Ba₈Si₄₆,Ga₆ is a bulk superconductor, with an
onset at T_(C)≈ 3.3 K. For x = 10 and higher, no superconductivity was
observed down to T=1.8 K. This represents a strong suppression of
superconductivity with increasing Ga content, compared to Ba₈Si₄₆ with
T_(C)^(∞)≈ 8 K. Suppression of superconductivity can be attributed
primarily to a decrease in the density of states at the Fermi level,
caused by a reduced integrity of the sp³-hybridized networks as well as
the lowering of carrier concentration. These results are corroborated by
first-principles calculations, which show that Ga substitution results
in a large decrease of the electronic density of states at the Fermi
level, which explains the decreased superconducting critical temperature
within the BCS framework. To further characterize the superconducting
state, we carried out magnetic measurements showing Ba₈Si₄₆Ga₆ to be a
type-II superconductor. The critical magnetic fields were measured to be
H_(C1)≈ 35 Oe and H_(C2)≈ 8.5 kOe. We deduce the London penetration
depth λ≈ 3700 A and the coherence length ξ_(c)≈ 200 A. Our estimate of
the electron-phonon coupling reveals that Ba₈Si₄₆Ga₆ is a moderate
phonon-mediated BCS superconductor.

2010.1103/PhysRevB.75.054513 2007 25 October 2006200616 February 2007

## I Introduction

Group-IV clathrate materials are extended Si, Ge, and Sn cagelike solids
with sp³-hybridized networks, which have received increasing attention
over the past few years. These materials have a semiconducting framework
into which metal atoms can be substituted, providing a number of
possibilities for electronic materials.[1, 2] Furthermore, within the
sp³-hybridized networks, K, Na, Rb, Cs, Sr, Ba, I, and Eu atoms can be
encapsulated in the cages.[3, 4] Clathrates exhibit metallic,
semiconducting, or insulating behavior depending upon the occupation
fraction, and on the substitution of atoms in the cage framework to
replace the group-IV atoms. The study of clathrates opens a field of new
materials with the metals arranged in such a nanoscale array, and with a
wide variety of properties ranging from insulators to metals.[5] New
thermoelectric applications have driven a great deal of this increased
current interest.[6, 7] The materials can be adjusted from
semiconducting to metallic, while at the same time the cage structures
can be filled with atoms that strongly scatter phonons. These factors
greatly influence the thermoelectric efficiency. Recently, NMR and
Mossbauer measurements have directly demonstrated atomic hopping within
the cages of Sr₈Ge₃₀/Ga₁₆ (Ref. [8]) and Eu₈Ge₃₀/Ga₁₆,[9] respectively.
The variety of electronic behavior attained by chemical substitution and
doping suggests that significant new features may be produced in this
system. In a search for better phonon scattering efficiency, Ge
clathrates filled with the rare earth Eu have been synthesized,
indicating that clathrates of this type containing local magnetic
moments are possible.[10] Further studies have identified ferromagnetic
behavior in magnetically substituted Ba₈Mn_(x)Ge₄₂ (type-I clathrate)
(Ref. [11]) and Ba₆Fe₃Ge₂₂ (chiral-type clathrate).[12] The potential of
such magnetic clathrates is quite significant, since the clathrate
structure can be adjusted for the tailoring of magnetic properties by
substitution and alloying. Therefore clathrates also have potential
application in magnetic sensors and new magnetic semiconductors.[12, 13,
14]

Inspired by the discovery of superconductivity in alkali-metal-doped C₆₀
fullerenes, efforts have been made to explore the superconductivity of
group-IV clathrates with particular attention to the sp³-hybridized
networks. In contrast to carbon, silicon and germanium do not form
sp²-like networks. Therefore, superconductivity of Si clathrate
superconductors with the sp³ network should be unique. In an initial
study, Caplin and co-workers investigated the conductivity and magnetic
susceptibility of silicon clathrates containing Na atoms as guests,[9]
but found no superconductivity in these materials. However,
Ba-encapsulated silicon clathrates were found to exhibit
superconductivity, with T_(C)∼ 8 K for the best samples with pure Ba
encapsulation.[15, 16] This kind of superconductor is unusual in that
the structure is dominated by strong covalent bonds between silicon
atoms, rather than the metallic bonding that is more typical of
traditional superconductors. Isotope effect measurements revealed that
superconductivity in Ba₈Si₄₆ is of the classic BCS kind, arising from
the electron-phonon interaction.[17] Study of the band structure for
Ba₈Si₄₆ showed a strong hybridization between the Si₄₆ band and Ba
orbitals, resulting in a very high density of states at the Fermi level,
N(E_(F))∼ 40 states/eV per unit cell.[18, 19, 20] Both the strong
hybridization of Ba with the conduction band and the high N(E_(F)) are
believed to play a key role in the superconductivity of these compounds,
and further studies of Si and Ge clathrates indicate the
superconductivity to be an intrinsic property of the _sp³_ network.[20,
21]

We are interested in the effect of Ga on the superconductivity of
Ba₈Si₄₆, as well as the change of electronic structure in the
clathrates. The Ba₈(Si, Ga)₄₆ system exhibits a wide variety of physical
properties; with the Ga content increasing from x = 0, the clathrate
behavior changes from superconducting Ba₈Si₄₆ (_T_(C)_ ∼ 8 K) (Ref.
[17]) to the heavily doped semiconductor Ba₈Si₃₀Ga₁₆.[22] Investigation
of Ga doping can also increase our understanding of the electronic
structure and superconducting mechanism in clathrate materials.

In this paper, we report a joint experimental and theoretical study of
Ga substitution in Ba₈Si_(46 − x)Ga_(x) clathrates. We show that
Ba₈Si₄₀Ga₆ is a bulk type-II superconductor; however, with increasing Ga
content, the superconducting _T_(C)_ decreases rapidly, and with x = 10
or more, there is no evidence of superconductivity for temperatures as
low as 1.8 K. We also used first-principles calculations to build a
detailed picture of the atomic and electronic structure of
Ga-substituted clathrates. By comparing the electronic structures of
different Ga-substituted silicon clathrates, our theoretical results
show that Ga doping gives rise to a lower density of states at the Fermi
level [N(E_(F))], which was explained as one of the reasons for the
destructive effect of Ga doping on superconductivity in Si clathrates.
For dilute levels, we show that the changes induced by substitution of
Ga for Si are approximately rigid band in character, so that it is
possible to change the electron concentration by framework substitution
while leaving the superconducting character of the _sp³_ network intact.

## II Experimental results

Our synthesis of Ba₈Si_(46 − x)Ga_(x) is based on the multistep melting
of Ba, Ga, and Si under argon atmosphere and subsequent solid-state
reaction.[12] The samples were characterized and analyzed by x-ray
diffraction and transmission electron microscopy. The obtained samples
were then analyzed for magnetic properties by a superconducting quantum
interference device (SQUID) magnetometer.

Analysis by powder x-ray diffraction showed characteristic type-I
clathrate reflections. Structural refinement of the powder x-ray
diffraction data was carried out using the gsas software package.[23,
24] As a result of the refinement, we find that for dilute doping, Ga
preferentially occupies the 6c framework sites; however, for heavy
substitution, Ga tends to a random distribution of the other sites. This
is similar to the site occupancy identified for Ba₈Ge₁₆Ge₃₀,[25] and for
Ba₈Ge₁₆Si₃₀,[26] although the latter work also identified a somewhat
weaker preference for Ga and the 24k site as well. As shown in the left
inset of Fig. 1, the refined lattice parameters of Ba₈Si_(46 − x)Ga_(x)
(_x_ = 6, 10, and 16) are 10.4261, 10.4896, and 10.5096 A, respectively,
which exhibit an increasing trend with x due to the larger atomic size
of Ga than that of Si. This is consistent with the results previously
reported.[27]

For dilute Ga doping, the sample of Ba₈Si₄₀Ga₆ exhibited no additional
phases when analyzed by x-ray diffraction at room temperature, as shown
in Fig. 1. Ba₈Si₄₀Ga₆ crystallizes into the type-I clathrate structure
[cubic space group $Pm\overline{3}n$ (No. 223)] with dimension a =
10.4261 A. The experimental pattern is in agreement with the simulated
one for the entire 2θ region. R values for the fit are _R_(sup)_=0.12,
_R_(p)_ =0.09. The measured structural parameters were selected as the
input data for the model simulations. The samples with x = 10 and 16
similarly exhibited single-phase x-ray patterns.

Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) measurements were carried out in
a JEOL 2010 electron microscope at a voltage of 200 kV, with an Oxford
Instruments INCA energy-dispersive spectroscopy (EDS) system for
chemical compositional analysis. In order to obtain accurate
quantification, the k factor (ratio to Si, _k_(Si)_=1) of Ga and Ba were
corrected during the quantification process using the INCA program.[28]
TEM observations confirmed that the majority phase has the clathrate
structure, with space group $Pm\overline{3}n$. Figure 2 displays three
electron diffraction patterns taken from the clathrate structure along
the [111], [112], and [113] zone axes. The reflection intensities are
consistent with dynamic electron diffraction simulations according to
the clathrate structure.[28] Chemical compositional analyses of three
samples with nominal compositions of Ba₈Si₄₀Ga₆, Ba₈Si₃₆Ga₁₀, and
Ba₈Si₃₀Ga₁₆ were performed on particles selected by the electron
diffraction to confirm the clathrate structure. A comparison of EDS
results is given in Table 1. It is seen that the quantification results
are very consistent with the sample nominal compositions.

Figure 3 shows the temperature dependence of the ac susceptibility of
the Ba₈Si₄₀Ga₆ sample, measured in zero static field at a frequency of
125 Hz. The susceptibility shows hardly any temperature dependence for
300 > _T>_4 K. At about 3.3 K, the sample starts to show superconducting
characteristics; the in-phase susceptibility (χ^(′)) suddenly drops and
the out-of-phase susceptibility (χ^(′)) peaks. These large

Figure 1: (Color online) X-ray refinement for Ba₈Si₄₀Ga₆. Upper curve:
data and fit, with difference plot below. Ticks show peaks indexed
according to the type-I clathrate structure. Right inset: the type-I
clathrate structure, built from a regular arrangement of a combination
of Si₂₀ (_I_(b)_) and Si₂₄ (_D_(6d)_) cages. Left inset: lattice
parameters of Ba₈Si_(46 − x)Ga_(x) (_x_ = 6, 10, and 16), showing an
increasing trend with x. The lattice parameter for Ga-free Ba₈Si₄₆
clathrate was taken from Ref. [16].

changes in the susceptibility are accompanied by a distinct drop in
electrical resistivity of the Ba₈Si₄₀Ga₆ sample; four-probe transport
measurements using a Lake Shore Physical Property Measurement System
confirm that Ba₈Si₄₀Ga₆ enters into a superconducting state at 3.3 K.
The resistance sharply drops from its high temperature value of R=7 mΩ
to zero resistance, as shown in Fig. 4. A change in the temperature
slope from metallic to semiconducting type at about 50 K is also
observed above the superconducting transition temperature. A measurement
at a high field of 70 kOe also demonstrates the metal-semiconductor
slope change, as shown in the inset to Fig. 4, however with a smaller
overall resistance in high field. No sign of superconductivity was
observed in high field; 70 kOe exceeds the critical field as discussed
below. Within the standard BCS approach to superconductivity, as has
been applied for other superconducting Si clathrates,[17] we deduce the
value of the superconducting gap at 0 K from the critical temperature
(T_(C)=3.3 K) using the well-known relation[29]2Δ_(T → 0)
k=3.52k_(B)T_(C). In this way we find that the superconducting gap is
about 0.5 meV for Ba₈Si₄₀Ga₆.

The inset of Fig. 3 presents the dc susceptibility of Ba₈Si₄₀Ga₆ as a
function of temperature, under conditions of zero-field cooling (ZFC)
and field cooling (FC) at 3 Oe. The ZFC magnetization data were taken on
heating after sample cooling in zero applied field, and the FC
magnetization was measured as a function of decreasing temperature in
the applied field. The enhancement of the diamagnetism below T_(C)(H)
originates from the screening supercurrents (ZFC regime) and the
Meissner effect of magnetic flux expulsion (FC regime). The inset figure
demonstrates that there is a difference between χ_(g) in ZFC and FC
conditions. As can be seen from the plot, for both ZFC and FC, χ_(g)
exhibits a superconducting drop for T<T_(C). The T_(C) (=3.3 K) found
for Ba₈Si₄₀Ga₆ is lower than that of pure Ba₈Si₄₆ (T_(C)=4-8 K depending
on sample preparation).[15, 16] However, for this case, where the Ga
substitution for Si is 13 at.

As shown in Fig. 3, the superconducting onset temperature is 3.3 K,
while the bulk transition occurs at around T =2.6 K. The superconducting
volume fraction was estimated to be 96

  ------------- ------------ ------------ ------------ --------------------------------------------------
  Nominal                                              
  composition    Ba (at. %)   Si (at. %)   Ga (at. %)              Measured chemical formula
  Ba₈Si₄₀Ga₆     14.9 ± 1.5   74.7 ± 2.1   10.4 ± 1.0   Ba_(8, 60 ± 0.5)Si_(40, 3 ± 1.1)Ga_(5, 6 ± 0.5)
  Ba₈Si₃₀Ga₁₀    14.9 ± 1.1   66.1 ± 2.5   19.0 ± 1.4   Ba_(8, 00 ± 0.5)Si_(35, 7 ± 1.4)Ga_(10, 3 ± 0.8)
  Ba₈Si₃₀Ga₁₆    15.9 ± 1.2   57.7 ± 5.0   26.4 ± 4.0   Ba_(8, 60 ± 0.6)Si_(31, 2 ± 2.7)Ga_(14, 3 ± 2.2)
  ------------- ------------ ------------ ------------ --------------------------------------------------

Table 1: EDS quantitative analysis results.

Figure 3: ac and dc magnetic susceptibility of Ba₈Si₄₀Ga₆ vs
temperature. Main plot: temperature dependence of the in-phase (χ^(′))
and out-of-phase (χ^(′)) ac susceptibility, measured in zero dc field.
Inset: dc susceptibility for conditions of zero-field cooling (ZFC) and
field cooling (FC) in the measurement field of 3 Oe. The onset
superconducting transition is observed at 3.3 K as shown.

Figure 2: (Color online) Upper figure: Electron diffraction patterns
from the clathrate structure along the [111] (a), [112] (b), and [113]
(c) axis. Lower figure: Comparison of EDS spectra from samples
Ba₈Si₄₀Ga₆ (solid curve), Ba₈Si₃₀Ga₁₀ (long-dashed curve), and
Ba₈Si₃₀Ga₁₆ (short-dashed curve). The intensities are normalized to the
lowest-energy Ba peak to reveal the variation of the Si-Ga ratio.

disk, with measurements made parallel to the long axis, so we estimated
the demagnetization factor (_N_) for this direction to be about 2 in cgs
units. In this case the value −1/(4π − N) corresponds to the bulk ideal
Meissner effect, and we find that χ_(FC) is 36

Temperature-dependent FC magnetization values under different magnetic
fields are shown in Fig. 5. Flux expulsion (Meissner effect) decreases
with increasing external field; the magnetic field easily suppresses the
magnitude of superconducting response. We observed that with increasing
applied field there occurs only a small suppression in T_(C) but a
strong reduction in superconducting volume, as shown in the inset of
Fig. 5. The Meissner superconducting volume V_(sup) decreases with
increasing field in a log-linear behavior, log₁₀V_(sup)=_a+b_ log₁₀H,
with a = 0.065 and b = -1.068.

To determine the superconducting critical fields H_(C1) and notably
H_(C2), the field dependence of the magnetization was measured. Evidence
for a type-II superconducting state can be seen in Fig. 6(a) where we
have plotted the M-H loop for T  =  1.8 K. As shown in Fig. 6(b), at
small fields, the shielding is 100

We have determined the upper critical field H_(C2) from the field
variation of the dc magnetization at high field. H_(C2) was estimated by
the magnetic field at which the M-H reverse legs merge at high field, as
shown in Fig. 6(c). The criterion of |ΔM| <  10⁻⁴ emu/g was used for the
determination of H_(C2), which was determined to be 8.5 kOe.

From the estimates of H_(C1) and H_(C2), we can determine the
penetration depth λ and the coherence length ξ using the Ginzburg-Landau
equations [30]μ₀H_(C2)  =  Φ₀/2πξ² and μ₀H_(C1) = (Φ₀/4 πλ²)[ln(λ/ξ)+C₁]
where κ  =  λ/ξ is the Ginzburg-Landau parameter, Φ₀  =  πℏc/e is the
flux quantum, and C₁ =0.497.[31] From H_(C1) =  35 Oe and H_(C2) =  8.5
kOe, we obtain λ =  4000 A and ξ  =  200 A. Hence, we find κ  =  20.
These values can be compared to those obtained for Ba₈Si₄₆ (λ =  4000 A,
ξ  =  72 A, and κ  =  56).[32] We found that both materials have the
same order of magnitude for λ; however, ξ for the Ga-substituted
material is three times larger than that of Ba₈Si₄₆. We can also remark
that in the type-IX chiral-structure clathrate Ba₂₄Ge₁₀₀, λ =  6500 A
and ξ  =  310 A (Ref. [33]) are similar to the values for Ba₈Si₄₀Ga₆
reported here.

## III Theoretical results

In order to explain the effect of Ga doping on superconductivity,
first-principles calculations for the periodic boundary systems were
carried out using the castep code with the generalized gradient
approximation (GGA). castep are first-principles _ab initio_ calculation
packages, using plane-wave basis sets and suited for periodic systems.
The total energy is minimized with respect to occupied orbitals using a
conjugate-gradient method. Either the local density approximation (LDA)
or GGA may be used to calculate the exchange and correlation energy of
the electrons. Pseudopotentials are used to model the interaction of the
valence electrons with the core of each atom. The total energy

Figure 4: Resistance of Ba₈Si₄₀Ga₆ versus temperature at H  =  0 and 70
kOe. Inset: magnified view of the low-temperature region, for clarity.
The onset superconducting transition is observed at 3.3 K.

Figure 5: (Color online) FC susceptibility under different fields for
Ba₈Si₄₀Ga₆. Inset: Meissner superconducting volume (V_(sup)) decreasing
with external field according to log-linear behavior, with the fitted
curve log₁₀V_(sup)=_a+b_ log₁₀H.

pseudopotential method we used was developed by Payne _et al._[34] This
method is based on density functional theory in describing the
electron-electron interaction and on a pseudopotential description of
the electron-core interaction, and has been publicized as castep. It
gives the total electronic energy of a large system, as well as its band
structure. Transferability and robustness of the assumed
pseudopotentials of each element seem to be confirmed by the success in
reproducing the physical properties such as lattice parameters of many
compounds. Therefore, it can be expected to give the relative stability
of different crystal structures. We used the castep code in order to
solve the pseudopotential Schrodinger equation self-consistently.
Besides the Ga-doped Si clathrates mentioned above, Ga-doped germanium
clathrates were also calculated as a reference in order to check the
suitability of the model parameters.

Wave functions were expanded in plane-wave basis sets with a kinetic
energy cutoff of 300 eV for all systems studied. We adopted the
ultrasoft pseudopotential. Calculated final structural data and
inequivalent atomic positions of each model in the calculation are
listed in Table 2. The input structural parameters were obtained from
experimental parameters by the geometry optimization function. As
discussed above, x-ray diffraction refinement has shown that for dilute
doping Ga is preferentially placed at the 6c site in clathrates. In
order to simplify the Ga-substitution model and to give prominence to Ga
substitution on 6c sites which bridge the Si20 and Si24 cages, we
assumed Ga to be located on all the 6 c sites for Ba₈Si₄₀Ga₆, and to
occupy 16i and 24k sites with random distribution for Ba₈Si₃₆Ga₁₀ and
Ba₈Si₃₀Ga₁₆. Spin polarization was not considered.

The band structure and density of states for Ba₈Si₄₀Ga₆ and Ba₈Si₃₀Ga₁₆
are shown in Fig. 7. For Ba₈Si₄₀Ga₆N(E) exhibits metallic character; the
fundamental gap, with width about 0.7 eV, is located well below E_(F).
The Fermi level for Ba₈Si₄₀Ga₆ is positioned just below the maximum of a
large N(E) peak. Our calculations show a nearly identical peak for
Ba₈Si₄₆, with peak value of about 38 states/eV; however, E_(F) is larger
in Ba₈Si₄₆ due to the larger number of valence electrons. This sharp
peak is very close to what has previously been calculated for Ba₈Si₄₆,
with reported peak ∼40 states/eV.[20, 35] The small reduction in
N(E_(F)) due to the lower valence count is consistent with the observed
change in T_(c), in the BCS model for superconductivity. Thus for dilute
substitution of Ga, we find a nearly rigid-band displacement of the
Fermi level, leaving the sp⁵-connected electronic structure of the
framework relatively unchanged and still conducive to superconductivity.
However, for more heavily substituted Ba₈Si₃₀Ga₁₆, larger changes in
electronic structure are observed. In the latter material the Fermi
level is located just below the fundamental gap, according to the
expected semiconducting behavior, since the temperature dependence of
electrical resistivity of Ba₈Si₃₀Ga₁₆ is typical for heavily doped
semiconductors. The results are similar to those obtained previously for
this composition.[36]

A comparison of the band structures and N(E) of Ba₈Si₄₀Ga₆ and
Ba₈Si₃₀Ga₁₆ shows that there are significant changes brought about by
the additional substitution of Ga. The valence and conduction bands are
broadened, and the fundamental gap correspondingly narrowed. The band
broadening may be understood as due to enhanced hybridization of the
framework orbitals due to the more extended size of the Ga ion. This is
similar to the effect of pressure on Ba₈Si₄₆, which also reduces T_(c)
as the lattice constant is reduced.[37] Ba₈Si₃₀Ga₁₆ is a Zint compound,
as there are nominally 184 valence electrons in Ba₈Si₃₀Ga₁₆,
contributing an average of four electrons for every framework atom,
enough for a completely filled four-bonded network. Indeed, the
simulation shows a lower total energy for Ba₈Si₄₀Ga₆ than Ba₈Si₄₆
implying that the Ga-substituted phase is more stable. An additional
stabilization, besides the Zintl mechanism, may come from the increased
polarity of the Ga-Si bonds, as experimentally we find that the
Ga-substituted materials can be formed more easily as single-phase
materials, as compared to

Figure 6: (Color online) (a) M-H hysteresis of Ba₈Si₄₀Ga₆ at 1.8 K. (b)
Initial magnetization curve at T=1.8 and 2 K, respectively. The lower
critical field H_(C1) is determined from the departure from linearity at
low field, which occurs at an applied field of approximately 21 Oe
corresponding to 1.8 K. (c) M-H reverse legs merge at high field. The
upper critical field H_(C2) was estimated to be 8.5 kOe at 1.8 K.

Ba₈Si₄₆ which generally requires high-pressure techniques, and this is
true even with relatively dilute Ga substitution. The fact that E_(F)
falls just below the fundamental gap presumably reflects a slightly
reduced negative charge on the Ba ions, as compared to the value (−2)
expected from the nominal valence.

The presence of regions with localized polar bonds of tetravalent Si and
trivalent Ga atoms is further supported by analysis of the calculated
electron charge density. The difference between Ba₈Si₄₆Ga₆ and
Ba₈Si₃₀Ga₁₆ clathrates in terms of hybridization can be perceived from
their different valence electron density distributions. This is
demonstrated in Fig. 8, where the electronic charge distributions in
real space are shown as contour maps of the valence electron densities
for Ba₈Si₄₀Ga₆ and Ba₈Si₃₀Ga₁₆, plotted on the (100) plane through Ba
(2a) sites and the six- membered rings of Si(Ga) (see Fig. 1). The two
Ba sites of each figure correspond to those at the centers of the Si₂₀
cages.

As shown in Fig. 8, Ga substitution significantly reduces the integrity
of the charge distribution spread uniformly across the Si cagelike
network. Such changes to the sp³ network may further suppress the
superconductivity of the Ga16 material.[20] Comparing Ba₈Si₄₀Ga₆ as
shown in Fig. 8(a) with Ga-free Ba₈Si₄₆,[20] no distinct differences are
observed in valence electron densities on the Ba and Si sites, and the
presence of Ga at the 6c sites leads to reduced charge transfer, less
charge density localized around the Ga sites, and fewer p electrons on
the Ga atoms. There is an enhanced electron density between the 6c site
and its Si neighbors, resulting in a local maximum of the charge density
[seen in Fig. 8(a)]. This shows that Ga orbitals hybridize strongly with
the host Si cage orbitals. In the case of heavy Ga substitution, besides
filled 6c sites, 6i and 24k sites are partially occupied by Ga in
Ba₈Si₃₀Ga₁₆. In this case there is a significantly larger charge density
along the Si-Ga bond direction, showing that Ga orbitals hybridize more
strongly in this case.

To show the effect of Ga substitution on the charge distributions at the
Fermi level, corresponding to states which play a crucial role in
superconductivity, contour maps of the electron densities at the Fermi
level are shown in Fig. 9. For Ba₈Si₄₀Ga₆, the electrons are distributed
relatively uniformly on the Si framework sites and Ba sites. In
contrast, the electron distribution spreads out much less effectively
for the band-edge states corresponding to the Fermi level in
Ba₈Si₃₀Ga₁₆, and the states appear to be poorly connected, reminiscent
of the impurity band model for the conductivity that has been proposed
for other type-I clathrates.[38]

## IV Discussion

Isotope effect measurements have revealed that superconductivity in
Ba₈Si₄₆ is of the classic type, arising from the

                                    Ba₈Si₄₀Ga₆               Ba₈Si₃₀Ga₁₀          Ba₈Si₃₀Ga₁₆
  ------------------------ ----------------------------- -------------------- --------------------
  Symmetry                  $Pm\overline{3}n$ (No. 223)       P1 (No. 1)           P1 (No. 1)
  Lattice constant a (Å)              10.4261                  10.4896              10.5096
  6c (Ga)                       x=0.25, y=0, z=0.5        x=0.25, y=0, z=0.5   x=0.25, y=0, z=0.5
  16i (Si, Ga)                    x, y, z=0.1823            x, y, z=0.1851       x, y, z=0.1877
  24k (Si, Ga)                  x=0.3034, y=0.1235,         x=0, y=0.3075,       x=0, y=0.3103,
                                        z=0                    z=0.1194             z=0.1166
  2a (Ba)                            x, y, z=0                x, y, z=0            x, y, z=0
  6d (Ba)                       x=0.25, y=0.5, z=0        x=0.25, y=0.5, z=0   x=0.25, y=0.5, z=0

Table 2: Calculated equilibrium structures and inequivalent atomic
positions for clathrate phases Ba₈Si₄₀Ga₆, Ba₈Si₃₀Ga₁₀, and Ba₈Si₃₀Ga₁₆.
The notation for atomic positions follows that of the International
Tables for Crystallography.

Figure 7: (Color online) Band structures and density of states for (a)
Ba₈Si₄₀Ga₆ and (b) Ba₈Si₃₀Ga₁₆. Density of states is calculated using
0.1 eV Gaussian broadening of the band structure. The Fermi levels are
denoted by broken horizontal lines.

electron-phonon interaction.[17] In the conventional BCS theory for
phonon-mediated superconductivity,[39]T_(C) can be estimated in terms of
the Debye temperature Θ_(D), the effective electron-phonon repulsive
interaction μ^(*), and the electron-phonon coupling constant λ_(ep):

$$T_{C} = \frac{\Theta_{D}}{1.45}\exp\biggl{(}\frac{-1.04(1+\lambda_{ep})}{ \lambda_{ep}-\mu*(1+0.62\lambda_{ep})}\biggr{)}.$$

Furthermore, λ_(ep) can be expressed as the product of N(E_(F)) and the
average electron pairing interaction V_(ep).

The Debye temperature Θ_(D)=370 K has been evaluated by specific heat
measurement in Ba₈Si₄₆.[17] We make the reasonable assumption that Θ_(D)
should have the same magnitude in Ba₈Si₄₆/Ga₆. The estimation of λ_(ep)
from T_(C) using the McMillan formula is not very sensitive to the value
of Θ_(D). Moreover, we set the effective electron-phonon repulsion μ^(*)
to 0.24, which was estimated for Ba₈Si₄₆.[17, 21] From this we find that
λ_(ep)=0.78, somewhat smaller than the value found for Ba₈Si₄₆
(λ_(ep)=1.05). This implies that Ga-doped Ba₈Si₄₆/Ga₆ has a relative
weaker electron-phonon coupling. Using N(E_(F))=38 states/eV for
Ba₈Si₄₆/Ga₆, the average electron pairing interaction V_(ep) is
estimated as 20.5 meV. This value is also smaller than that obtained for
Ga-free Ba₈Si₄₆, 24 meV. It thus appears that the T_(C) decrease with Ga
doping can be partially assigned to the weakening of electron-phonon
coupling as well as a decrease of the density of states at the Fermi
level; however, given the range of T_(C) observed in various samples of
Ba₈Si₄₆, it remains possible that the observed reduction in Ba₈Si₄₆/Ga₆
is due entirely to the small drop in N(E_(F)).

In conclusion, we have presented a combined experimental and theoretical
study of the effect of Ga substitution on the superconductivity of the
type-I clathrate Ba₈Si_(46∼)/Ga_(x). In Ga-doped clathrates, the Ga
state is found to be strongly hybridized with the cage conduction band
state. Ga substitu

Figure 8: (Color online) Contour maps of the valence electron densities
of (a) Ba₈Si₄₆/Ga₆ and (b) Ba₈Si₃₀Ga₁₆ on the (100) plane.

Figure 9: (Color online) Contour maps of the electron densities at the
Fermi level of Ba₈Si₄₆/Ga₆ (upper) and Ba₈Si₃₀/Ga₁₆ (lower) on the (100)
plane.

tion results in a shift toward a lower energy, a decrease of N(E_(F)), a
lowering of the carrier concentration, and a breakage of the integrity
of the sp³-hybridized networks. These play key roles in the suppression
of superconductivity. For Ba₈Si₄₀Ga₆, the onset of the superconducting
transition occurs at T_(C)≈ 3.3 K. The investigation of the magnetic
superconducting state shows that Ba₈Si₄₀Ga₆ is a type-II superconductor.
The critical magnetic fields H_(C1) and H_(C2) were measured to be
H_(C1)≈ 35 Oe and H_(C2)≈ 8.5 kOe. We deduce the London penetration
depth λ≈ 3700 A and the coherence length ξ= 200 A. Our estimate of the
electron-phonon coupling reveals that Ba₈Si₄₀Ga₆ is a moderate
phonon-mediated BCS superconductor.

###### Acknowledgements.

This work was supported in part by the National Natural Science
Foundation of China (Grant No. 50372005), the Robert A. Welch Foundation
(Grant No. A-1526), the UPRM-CID seed program (Grant No. SM-07-14), and
the National Science Foundation PREM program (Grant No. 0351449).

## References

* [1] J. L. Cohn, G. S. Nolas, V. Fessaditis, T. H. Metcalf, and G. A.
Slack, Phys. Rev. Lett. **82**, 779 (1999). * [2] G. S. Nolas, T. J. R.
Weakley, J. L. Cohn, and R. Sharma, Phys. Rev. B **61**, 3845 (2000). *
[3] S. Bobev and S. Sevov, J. Solid State Chem. **153**, 92 (2000). *
[4] H. Shimizu, T. Kume, T. Kuroda, S. Sasaki, H. Fukuoka, and S.
Yamanaka, Phys. Rev. B **68**, 212102 (2003). * [5] S. B. Roy, K. E.
Sim, and A. D. Caplin, Philos. Mag. A **65**, 1445 (1992). * [6] J. S.
Tse, K. Uehara, R. Rousseau, A. Ker, C. I. Ratcliffe, M. A. White, and
G. MacKay, Phys. Rev. Lett. **85**, 114 (2000). * [7] B. B. Iversen, A.
E. C. Palmqvist, D. E. Cox, G. S. Nolas, G. D. Stucky, N. P. Blake, and
H. Metiu, J. Solid State Chem. **149**, 455 (2000). * [8] Weiping Gou,
Yang Li, Ji Chi, Joseph H. Ross, Jr., M. Beekman, and G. S. Nolas, Phys.
Rev. B **71**, 174307 (2005). * [9] R. P. Hermann, V. Keppens, P.
Bonville, G. S. Nolas, F. Grandjean, G. J. Long, H. M. Christen, B. C.
Chakoumakos, B. C. Sales, and D. Mandrus, Phys. Rev. Lett. **97**,
017401 (2006). * [10] B. C. Sales, B. C. Chakoumakos, R. Jin, J. R.
Thompson, and D. Mandrus, Phys. Rev. B **63**, 245113 (2001). * [11] T.
Kawaguchi, K. Tanigaki, and M. Yasukawa, Appl. Phys. Lett. **77**, 3438
(2000). * [12] Yang Li and J. H. Ross, Jr., Appl. Phys. Lett. **83**,
2868 (2003). * [13] Y. Li, J. Chi, W. P. Gou, S. Khandekar, and J. H.
Ross, Jr., J. Phys.: Condens. Matter **15**, 5535 (2003). * [14] Y. Li,
W. P. Gou, J. Chi, V. Goruganti, and J. H. Ross, Jr., in 27th
_International Conference on the Physics of Semiconductors_, edited by
J. Menendez and C. G. Van der Walle, AIP Conf. Proc. No. 772 (AIP,
Melville, NY, 2005), p. 331. * [15] H. Kawaji, H. O. Horie, S. Yamanaka,
and M. Ishikawa, Phys. Rev. Lett. **74**, 1427 (1995). * [16] S.
Yamanaka, E. Enishi, H. Fukuoka, and M. Yasukawa, Inorg. Chem. **39**,
56 (2000). * [17] K. Tanigaki, T. Shimizu, K. M. Itoh, J. Teraoka, Y.
Moritomo, and S. Yamanaka, Nat. Mater. **2**, 653 (2003). * [18] S.
Saito and A. Oshiyama, Phys. Rev. B **51**, 2628 (1995). * [19] K.
Moriguchi, M. Yonemura, A. Shintani, and S. Yamanaka, Phys. Rev. B
**61**, 9859 (2000). * [20] Yang Li, Y. Liu, N. Chen, G. H. Cao, Z. S.
Feng, and J. H. Ross, Jr., Phys. Lett. A **345**, 398 (2005). * [21] D.
Connetable, V. Timoshevskii, B. Masenelli, J. Beille, J. Marcus, B.
Barbara, A. M. Saitta, G.-M. Rignanese, P. Melinon, S. Yamanaka, and X.
Blase, Phys. Rev. Lett. **91**, 247001 (2003). * [22] V. L. Kuznetsov,
L. A. Kuznetsova, A. E. Kaliazin, and D. M. Rowe, J. Appl. Phys. **87**,
7871 (2000). * [23] A. C. Larson and R. B. von Dreele, Los Alamos
National Laboratory Report No. LAUR 86-748, 2000 (unpublished). * [24]
B. H. Toby, J. Appl. Crystallogr. **34**, 210 (2001). * [25] Y. G.
Zhang, P. L. Lee, G. S. Nolas, and A. P. Wilkinson, Appl. Phys. Lett.
**80**, 2931 (2002). * [26] A. Bentien, B. B. Iversen, J. D. Bryan, G.
D. Stucky, A. E. C. Palmqvist, A. J. Schultz, and R. W. Henning, J.
Appl. Phys. **91**, 5694 (2002). * [27] B. Eisemann, H. Schafer, and R.
Zagler, J. Less-Common Met. **118**, 43 (1986). * [28] J. I. Goldstein,
D. B. Williams, and G. Cliff, in _Principles of Analytical Electron
Microscopy_, edited by D. C. Joy, A. D. Romig, Jr., and J. I. Goldstein
(Plenum Press, New York, 1986), pp. 155-217. * [29] J. Bardeen, L. N.
Cooper, and J. R. Schrieffer, Phys. Rev. **108**, 1175 (1957). * [30] V.
L. Ginzburg and L. D. Landau, Zh. Eksp. Teor. Fiz. **20**, 1064
(1950). * [31] C.-R. Hu, Phys. Rev. B **6**, 1756 (1972). * [32] I. M.
Gat, Y. Fudamoto, and A. Kinkhabwala, Physica B **289**, 385 (2000). *
[33] R. Viennois, P. Toulemonde, C. Paulsen, and A. San-Miguel, J.
Phys.: Condens. Matter **17**, L311 (2005). * [34] M. C. Payne, M. P.
Teter, D. C. Allan, T. A. Arias, and J. D. Joannopoulos, Rev. Mod. Phys.
**64**, 1045 (1992). * [35] K. Moriguchi, M. Yonemura, A. Shintani, and
S. Yamanaka, Phys. Rev. B **61**, 9859 (2000). * [36] N. P. Blake, S.
Latturner, J. D. Bryan, G. D. Stucky, and H. Metiu, J. Chem. Phys.
**115**, 8060 (2001). * [37] P. Toulemonde, A. San Miguel, A. Merlen, R.
Viennois, S. Le Floch, C. Adessi, X. Blase, and J. L. Tholence, J. Phys.
Chem. Solids **67**, 1117 (2006). * [38] G. S. Nolas, J. L. Cohn, J. S.
Dyck, C. Uher, and J. Yang, Phys. Rev. B **65**, 165201 (2002). * [39]
W. L. McMillan, Phys. Rev. **167**, 331 (1968).
