# Systematic behavior of the in-plane penetration depth in _d_-wave
cuprates

C. Panagopoulos, J. R. Cooper,* and T. Xiang

Interdisciplinary Research Centre in Superconductivity, University of
Cambridge, Madingley Road, Cambridge, CB3 0HE, United Kingdom

12 September 1997

###### Abstract

We report the temperature (_T_) and oxygen concentration dependences of
the penetration depth of grain-aligned YBa2Cu3O7-_d_ with d = 0.0, 0.3,
and 0.43. The values of the in-plane _l_ab(0) and out-of-plane _l_c(0)
penetration depths, the low-temperature linear term in _l_ab(_T_), and
the ratio [λ_(c)(0)/λ_(ab)(0) ] were found to increase with increasing
d. The systematic changes of the linear term in _l_ab(_T_) with _T_c
found here and in recent work on HgBa2Ca2Cu3O7-_d_ (_n_ = 1 and 3) are
discussed. [S0163-1829(98)04121-6]

In a recent study[1] of the _c_-axis coupling of _d_-wave high-_T_c
cuprates we reported the values and temperature (_T_) dependences of the
in-plane (_l_ab) and out-of-plane (_l_c) penetration depths for slightly
overdoped[2,3] HgBa2CuO4+_d_ (Hg-1201) with critical temperature _T_c =
93 K and slightly underdoped[4,5] HgBa2Ca2Cu3O8+_d_ (Hg-1223) with _T_c
= 135 K. For both compounds the low-temperature dependence of _l_ab was
found to be linear as expected for _d_-wave superconductivity. In fact
normalized plots of [Λ_(ab)(0)/Λ_(ab)(T)]² versus _T_/_T_c were the
same, and like YBa2Cu3O7 (YBCO7) (Ref. [6]) agreed very well with
mean-field (MF) theory for a weak-coupling _d_-wave superconductor.
However, recent angle-resolved photoemission spectroscopy[7] (ARPES) and
tunneling[8] data strongly suggest that for underdoped samples the
superconducting gap D0 remains constant, or even increases slightly,
while _T_c falls and so large deviations from MF theory might be
expected. We have therefore extended our investigation to deoxygenated
(underdoped) pure YBa2Cu3O7-_d_ using the same ac susceptibility
technique to measure the penetration depth.[1,6,9,10]

We report experimental results for the values and temperature
dependences of _l_ab and _l_c of high-quality _c_-axis grain-aligned
orthorhombic[1] YBa2Cu3O7-_d_ (which has two CuO2 planes per unit cell
as well as Cu-O chains) with d = 0.0, 0.3, and 0.43, and compare them
with tetragonal[12] Hg-1201 with one CuO2 plane per unit cell and
tetragonal[13] Hg-1223 with three CuO2 planes per unit cell. We find
that the presence of the linear term in _l_ab(_T_) is independent of the
number of CuO2 planes per unit cell, carrier concentration, crystal
structure, anisotropy and the presence of chains. Surprisingly our data
show good agreement with weak-coupling _d_-wave theory, and the linear
term in [Λ_(ab)(T)/Λ_(ab)(0) ] appears to scale with _T_/_T_c. This
result highlights the need for detailed consideration of the
relationship between superconducting and normal-state energy gaps in
underdoped cuprates.

Sample preparation was carried out by the standard solid-state reaction
process using high-purity (99.999

The values of _l_ab(0) derived from our data are 0.14, 0.21, and 0.28
_m_m and the corresponding values for _l_c(0) are 1.26, 4.53, and 7.17
_m_m for d = 0.0, 0.3, and 0.43, respectively. The errors in _l_ab(0)
arising from a possible uncertainty of +- 5

Figures 1(a) and 1(b), show characteristic low-temperature plots of
[λ(T)/λ(0)] for the ab plane (measured with the applied field H∥c) and c
axis (measured with H∥ab), respectively, for the three oxygen
concentrations studied. The low-temperature (T/T_(c)<0.25) linear term
in λ_(ab)(T), is 4.8 A/K for YBCO₉ in good agreement with that found
from microwave measurements on YBCO_(6.95) single crystals. [20] As
oxygen is removed from the lattice (the chains) the linear term
increases to 12 and 20 A/K for δ= 0.3 and 0.43, respectively. For YBCO₇
we also observe a linear T dependence in λ_(c) at low temperatures but
the relative change is about a factor of 2 smaller than in
[λ_(ab)(T)/λ_(ab)(0)], while λ_(c)(T) of YBCO_(6.7) and YBCO_(6.57)
obeys a T² behavior at low T. Details of the systematics of λ_(c)(T) of
cuprate superconductors can be found in Refs. [1, 6, 21, 22].

In Fig. 2 we present normalized plots of [λ_(ab)(0)/λ_(ab)(T)]² and
[λ_(c)(0)/λ_(c)(T)]² versus T/T_(c). There is excellent agreement
between the [λ_(ab)(0)/λ_(ab)(T)]² curves for the three oxygen
concentrations. The data in Fig. 2(a) are compared with the
weak-coupling theory for a d-wave superconductor (solid line). [23] It
can be seen that the d-wave curve fits the data very well. On the other
hand, the [λ_(c)(0)/λ_(c)(T)]² curves do not fit the d-wave curve and
also differ from each other slightly, because of the effect of the
intermediate coupling on λ_(c)(T). [1, 6, 10, 21, 22] We also find that
[λ_(ab)(0)/λ_(ab)(T)]² of YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) agrees with that of Hg-1201
and Hg-1223. [1, 10] The behavior of [λ_(ab)(0)/λ_(ab)(T)]² is generally
similar to that of YBa₂(Cu_(1 − x)Zn_(x))₃O₇ (x = 0.02 and 0.03), [6]
except at very low temperatures where a T² term developed in the
Zn-doped samples due to impurity scattering.

The full temperature dependences of [λ_(ab)(0)/λ_(ab)(T)]² for
YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) (δ = 0.0, 0.3, and 0.43), YBa₂(Cu_(1 − x)Zn_(x))₃O₇ (x
= 0.02 and 0.03), Hg-1201 and Hg-1223 are also in agreement with recent
data of Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O_(8 + δ) (Bi-2212) (Ref. [24]) and Tl₂Ba₂CuO_(6 + δ)
(Tl-2201) (Ref. [25]) single crystals measured by a microwave technique
with H∥c, but they only agree with another set of microwave data (H∥c)
for Bi-2212 single crystals [26] at T/T_(c)<0.3. At higher temperatures
the data in Ref. [26] deviate from the weak-coupling d-wave calculation.
Independent evidence for the scaling behavior of [λ_(ab)(0)/λ_(ab)(T)]²
with T/T_(c) can also be found in a recent publication by Bonn _et
al._[27] who measured the relative changes in λ with temperature for
underdoped, optimally doped and slightly overdoped untwinned
YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) crystals using a microwave technique and H⊥c. However,
in Ref. [27] the changes of [λ_(ab)(0)/λ_(ab)(T)]² for YBCO_(6.95), at
high temperatures, and YBCO_(6.6), over the whole temperature range,
were smaller than ours and closer, at high temperatures, to the Bi-2212
data in Ref. [26]. We do not know the precise origin of this difference
but we believe that for weakly coupled layers, data taken with H∥c give
the best measure of the superfluid density.

Figure 3 shows plots of {1−[λ_(ab)(0)/λ_(ab)(T)]² vs T which is
equivalent to {[n_(s)(0)−n_(s)(T)]/n_(s)(0)}, i.e., the normalized
density of quasiparticle excitations, where n_(s)(T) is the density of
condensed electrons at a temperature T, for all the samples studied. It
is clear that the linear term in {

$-\bigl{[}\lambda_{ab}(0)/\lambda_{ab}(T)\bigr{]}^{2}\bigr{]}$ increases
as T_(c) decreases. If we use the standard BCS result for λ (T) of a
d-wave superconductor,[28]

$$\bigl{[}\lambda(0)/\lambda(T)\bigr{]}^{2}\!\approx\!1-2\,(T/\Delta_{0})\ln 2,$$
(1)

to fit the experimental data shown in Fig. 3 (at T/T_(c) < 0.25), we
find that Δ₀ scales approximately with T_(c) [Fig. 3 (inset)], giving
Δ₀ ≈ 2 T_(c) , a value close to that expected for weak-coupling
superconductivity.[28] For comparison we also include data for the
s-wave perovskite Ba_(0.6)K_(0.4)BiO₃ (BKBO).[10] The compounds Bi-2212
(Refs. [24] and [26]) and Tl-2201 (Ref. [25]) would also give
Δ₀ ≈ 2 T_(c) on this plot. The maximum error in the linear terms, i.e.,
the values of Δ₀ in Fig. 3 (inset), is ± 20

The scaling of Δ₀ with T_(c) , Fig. 3 (inset), is in agreement with
early tunneling spectroscopy data[29] for several cuprates as a function
of carrier concentration, ranging from the underdoped to the optimally
doped regimes. It is not consistent however, with more recent
tunneling[8] and ARPES (Ref. [7]) results for underdoped cuprates where
Δ₀ was actually found to increase slightly while T_(c) falls. There
seems to be two possible ways of accounting this discrepancy. One is
that the recent spectroscopic experiments[7, 8] actually measure the
normal-state gap. In this scenario the effect of the normal-state gap
would be to leave small pockets of holes whose superconducting
properties are still described reasonably well by MF theory. The other
is similar to a recent phenomenological approach.[30] As shown in Fig.
4, it is probable, that within experimental error, the _unnormalized_
plots of [1/λ_(ab)(T)²], i.e., n_(s)(T), versus T at low temperatures
are parallel for samples with different T_(c) values. This would
correspond to the same number of excited quasiparticles,
[ n_(s)(0) − n_(s)(T) ], at a given temperature for all T_(c) values–as
implied by specific-heat work on underdoped YBCO.[31] Such parallel
shifts give [ n_(s)(0) − n_(s)(T) ] = αT, where α is independent of
doping level (T_(c)). In combination with the well-known Uemura relation
n_(s)(0) ∝ T_(c),[18] this gives [1 − n_(s)(T)/n_(s)(0) ] = βT/T_(c) ,
where β is independent of T_(c) . So at low T [ λ_(ab)(0)/λ_(ab)(T) ]²
versus T/T_(c) would still scale on to a single curve even when the MF
relation Δ₀/T_(c) ≈ 2, is strongly violated.

In conclusion, we have studied λ_(ab)(T) and λ_(c)(T) of high-quality
grain-aligned YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) with δ = 0.0, 0.3, and 0.43. The values
of λ_(ab)(0), λ_(c)(0), and γ were found to increase with oxygen
deficiency. We find that the existence of the linear term in λ_(ab)(T)
is independent of the number of CuO₂ planes per unit cell, carrier
concentration, crystal structure, anisotropy, and the presence of
chains. If viewed in isolation, all the penetration depth data presented
here and most of the microwave measurements for H|l_(c) appear to be in
excellent agreement with mean-field theory for a weak-coupling d-wave
superconductor for which Δ₀/T_(c) ≈ 2. However, recent spectroscopic
data are more consistent with a different approach[30] in which there is
a strong interplay between the superconducting and normal-state gaps.
Clearly the relationship between these two gaps is of crucial importance
for understanding superconductivity in the cuprates.

We thank J. W. Loram for enlightening discussions and B. Mace for his
assistance with the powder preparation. C.P. would like to thank Trinity
College, Cambridge for financial support. This work is supported by
E.P.S.R.C of the United Kingdom.

## References

* [*] On leave from the Institute of Physics, The University of Zagreb,
P.O. Box 304, Zagreb, Croatia. * [2] C. Panagopoulos, J. R. Cooper, T.
Xiang, G. B. Peacock, I. Gameson, and P. P. Edwards, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**79**, 2320 (1997). * [3] G. B. Peacock, I. Gameson, and P. P. Edwards
(unpublished). * [4] Q. Xiong, Y. Y. Xue, Y. Cao, F. Chen, Y. Y. Sun, J.
Gibson, C. W. Chu, L. M. Liu, and A. Jacobson, Phys. Rev. B **50**, 10
346 (1994). * [5] G. B. Peacock, I. Gameson, and P. P. Edwards, Adv.
Mater. **9**, 240 (1997). * [6] A. Carrington, D. Colson, Y. Dumont, C.
Ayache, A. Bertinotti, and J. F. Marucco, Physica C **234**, 1 (1994);
C. K. Subramaniam, M. Paranthaman, and A. B. Kaiser, Phys. Rev. B
**51**, 1330 (1995). * [7] C. Panagopoulos, J. R. Cooper, N.
Athanassopoulou, and J. Chrosch, Phys. Rev. B **54**, R12 721 (1996).

Figure 4: Low-temperature plot of [1/λ_(ab)²(T) ] (i.e., n_(s)) for
YBCO_(6.57) (open squares) and Hg-1201 (open triangles) showing the
approximate parallel shift of n_(s) with T_(c) as discussed in the text.
The dashed lines, immediately above and below each data set, indicate
the maximum possible error in 1/λ_(ab)²(T) arising from ± 5

* (7) See, for example, J. M. Harris, Z. X. Shen, P. J. White, D. S.
Marchall, M. C. Schabel, J. N. Eckstein, and I. Bozovic, Phys. Rev. B
**54**, R15 665 (1996). * (8) M. Oda, K. Hoya, R. Kubota, C. Manabe, N.
Momono, T. Nakano, and M. Ido, Physica C **281**, 135 (1997). * (9) A.
Porch, J. R. Cooper, D. N. Zheng, J. R. Waldram, A. M. Campbell, and P.
A. Freeman, Physica C **214**, 350 (1993). * (10) C. Panagopoulos, J. R.
Cooper, G. B. Peacock, I. Gameson, P. P. Edwards, W. Schmidbauer, and J.
W. Hodby, Phys. Rev. B **53**, R2999 (1996). * (11) R. Beyers and T. M.
Shaw, in _Solid State Physics_, edited by H. Ehrenreich and D. Turnbull
(Academic, London, 1989), Vol. 42. * (12) J. L. Wagner, P. G. Radaelli,
D. G. Hinks, J. D. Jorgensen, J. F. Mitchell, B. Dabrowski, G. S. Knapp,
and M. A. Beno, Physica C **210**, 447 (1993). * (13) J. L. Wagner, B.
A. Hunter, D. G. Hinks, and J. D. Jorgensen, Phys. Rev. B **51**, 15 407
(1995). * (14) C. Panagopoulos, W. Zhou, N. Athanassopoulou, and J. R.
Cooper, Physica C **269**, 157 (1996). * (15) J. Chrosch, C.
Panagopoulos, N. Athanassopoulou, J. R. Cooper, and E. K. H. Salje,
Physica C **265**, 233 (1996). * (16) D. Shoenberg, _Superconductivity_
(Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, 1954), p. 164. * (17) N.
Athanassopoulou, J. R. Cooper, and J. Chrosch, Physica C **235-240**,
1835 (1994). * (18) Y. J. Uemura, L. P. Lee, G. M. Luke, B. J.
Sternlieb, W. D. Wu, J. H. Brewer, T. M. Riseman, C. L. Seaman, M. B.
Maple, M. Ishikawa, D. G. Hinks, J. D. Jorgensen, G. Saito, and H.
Yamochi, Phys. Rev. Lett. **66**, 2665 (1991). * (19) J. L. Tallon, C.
Bernhard, U. Binninger, A. Hofer, G. V. M. Williams, E. J. Ansaldo, J.
I. Budnick, and C. Niedermayer, Phys. Rev. Lett. **74**, 1008 (1995). *
(20) W. N. Hardy, D. A. Bonn, D. C. Morgan, Ruixing Liang, and Kuan
Zhang, Phys. Rev. Lett. **70**, 3999 (1993). * (21) T. Xiang and J. M.
Wheatley, Phys. Rev. Lett. **77**, 4632 (1996). * (22) T. Xiang and J.
M. Wheatley, Phys. Rev. Lett. **76**, 134 (1996). * (23) A. J. Schofield
(private communication). * (24) S. F. Lee, D. C. Morgan, R. J. Ormeno,
D. M. Broun, R. A. Doyle, J. R. Waldram, and K. Kadowaki, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **77**, 735 (1996). * (25) D. Broun, D. C. Morgan, R. J. Ormeno,
S. F. Lee, A. W. Tyler, A. P. Mackenzie, and J. R. Waldram, Physica C
**282-287**, 1467 (1997). * (26) T. Jakobs, S. Sridhar, Q. Li, G. D. Gu,
and N. Koshizuka, Phys. Rev. Lett. **75**, 4516 (1995). * (27) D. A.
Bonn, S. Kamal, Kuan Zhang, Ruixing Liang, and W. N. Hardy, Czech. J.
Phys. **46** , S6 3195 (1996). * (28) K. Maki and H. Won, J. Phys. **1
6**, 1 (1996). * (29) For reviews see, J. R. Kirtley, Int. J. Mod. Phys.
B **4**, 201 (1990); T. Hasegawa, H. Ikuta, and K. Kitazawa, _Physical
Properties of High Temperature Superconductors_, edited by D. M.
Ginsberg (World Scientific, Singapore, 1992), Vol. III, Chap. 7, p.
525. * (30) P. A. Lee and X-G Wen, Phys. Rev. Lett. **78**, 4111
(1997). * (31) J. W. Loram, K. A. Mirza, J. R. Cooper, and W. Y. Liang,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **71**, 1740 (1993).
