Temperature versus Sm concentration phase diagram and quantum
criticality in the correlated electron system Ce_(1 − x)Sm_(x)CoIn₅

N. Pouse

Present address: Department of Physics, University of California,
Berkeley, California 94720.Present address: Department of Physics,
Central Washington University, 400 East University Way, Ellensburg,
Washington 98926-7442.Present addresses: Center for Nanophysics and
Advanced Materials, Department of Physics, University of Maryland,
College Park, MD 20742; NIST Center for Neutron Research, National
Institute of Standards and Technology, 100 Bureau Drive, Gaithersburg,
MD 20899.

S. Jang

Present address: Department of Physics, University of California,
Berkeley, California 94720.Present address: Department of Physics,
Central Washington University, 400 East University Way, Ellensburg,
Washington 98926-7442.Present address: Center for Nanophysics and
Advanced Materials, Department of Physics, University of California, San
Diego, La Jolla, California 92093, USA Center for Advanced Nanoscience,
University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, California 92093, USA
Materials Science and Engineering Program, University of California, San
Diego, La Jolla, California 92093, USA

B. D. White

Present address: Department of Physics, University of California, San
Diego, La Jolla, California 92093, USA Center for Advanced Nanoscience,
University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, California 92093, USA

S. Ran

Present address: Department of Physics, University of California, San
Diego, La Jolla, California 92093, USA Department of Physics, University
of California, San Diego, La Jolla, California 92093, USA

R. B. Adhikari

Department of Physics, Kent State University, Kent, Ohio 44242, USA

C. C. Almasan

Department of Physics, Kent State University, Kent, Ohio 44242, USA

M. B. Maple

Present address: Department of Physics, University of California, San
Diego, La Jolla, California 92093, USA Materials Science and Engineering
Program, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, California
92093, USA Department of Physics, Kent State University, Kent, Ohio
44242, USA

###### Abstract

We report electrical resistivity, magnetization, and specific heat
measurements on the correlated electron system Ce_(1 − x)Sm_(x)CoIn₅ (0
 ≤ x≤ 1). Superconductivity (SC) in the heavy-fermion compound CeCoIn₅,
which is suppressed with increasing Sm concentration x, and
antiferromagnetic (AFM) order of SmCoIn₅, which is suppressed with
decreasing x, converge near a quantum critical point at x_(QCP) ≈ 0.15,
with no indication of coexistence of SC and AFM in the vicinity of the
QCP. Non-Fermi-liquid (NFL) behavior is observed in the normal-state
electrical resistivity, ρ(T), and specific heat, C(T), in the vicinity
of the QCP; e.g., the coefficient and the exponent of the power-law T
dependence of ρ(T) exhibit pronounced maxima and minima, respectively,
at x_(QCP), while C(T)/T exhibits a logarithmic divergence in T at
x_(QCP). A low-temperature upturn in ρ(T) develops in the range
0.70 ≤ x ≤ 0.85 which is reminiscent of a single impurity Kondo effect,
suggesting that Sm substitution tunes the relative strength of competing
Kondo and Ruderman-Kittel-Kasuya-Yosida energy scales. The suppression
of SC with increasing x is probably associated with the exchange
interaction between the Ce quasiparticles involved in the
superconductivity and the magnetic moments of the Sm ions.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.97.235149

## I Introduction

Quantum criticality has been an important and fascinating area of
correlated electron research due in large part to its presence in
disparate classes of materials including cuprates and iron pnictide
high-temperature superconductors, as well as lanthanide- and
actinide-based heavy-fermion (HF) metals [1]. A quantum critical point
(QCP) emerges when a second-order phase transition is suppressed to zero
temperature by tuning nonthermal control parameters such as chemical
composition, applied pressure, or magnetic field, frequently yielding an
observable superconducting state [2]. The proximity of superconductivity
to magnetism in these materials has led to an ongoing debate about the
underlying mechanism behind the emergent superconductivity and continues
to drive a great deal of research in this area [3]. The HF
superconductors CeTIn₅ (T= Co, Rh, Ir) are a prototypical class of
strongly correlated systems in which unconventional superconductivity
(SC) emerges in close proximity to an antiferromagnetic (AFM) QCP [3, 4,
5, 6].

The compound CeCoIn₅ is a d-wave superconductor [7, 8, 9, 10] that has
provided an opportunity to study the effects of impurities, either
magnetic or nonmagnetic, on an unconventional superconductor. The
compound SmCoIn₅ is isostructural with CeCoIn₅, but undergoes three
successive phase transitions [11] and has not been found to exhibit
superconductivity under ambient or applied pressure up to 8 GPa [12].
This is in contrast with the related compound PuCoIn₅ in which
superconductivity was observed [13]; PuCoIn₅ and SmCoIn₅ have the same
crystal structure and Pu³⁺ shares the same f-electron shell
configuration as Sm³⁺.

Our study of the system Ce_(1 − x)Sm_(x)CoIn₅ reported herein was
motivated by a series of studies on the system Ce_(1 − x)Yb_(x)CoIn₅[14,
15]. Ytterbium, which can have the same valence states as Sm (2+, 3+),
was found to display valence fluctuations when substituted into the Ce
site, while Ce remained trivalent [14, 16]. The Yb valence decreases
rapidly from 3+ at low x until stabilizing at 2.3+ for x > 0.07[16]. The
decrease in Yb valence in Ce_(1 − x)Yb_(x)CoIn₅ is accompanied by other
anomalous phenomena at x = 0.07, such as suppression of the quantum
critical field, H_(QCP)[17], a Fermi-surface reconstruction [18], and a
possible crossover from a nodal to nodeless superconducting energy gap
[19]. This last result was observed in measurements of the London
penetration depth, λ(T)[19]; although, recent thermal conductivity
measurements do not show this change in the superconducting energy gap
[20]. This nodeless superconductivity has been explored by a composite
pairing scenario in which a fully gapped d-wave molecular superfluid of
composite pairs form [21]. By substituting Sm into the Ce site in this
study, we were interested in seeing whether we could observe some of the
same phenomena reported in the Yb-substituted system [22, 23].

Our measurements of the specific heat of SmCoIn₅ indicate that there are
two additional phase transitions besides AFM order at T_(N) ∼ 11.6 K,
including a first-order transition at 10.2 K, and another transition
with a smaller feature at 6.0 K. This behavior, with three transitions,
is similar to that observed in a previous study of SmIn₅[24]; however,
the origin of these additional phase transitions is unknown in SmCoIn₅.
From μSR measurements on SmIn₃, it is suggested that these ordering
temperatures are associated with a transition between commensurate and
incommensurate AFM states [25], although the signatures of the
transitions are qualitatively different when we compare specific heat
measurements on SmCoIn₅ and SmIn₃. Additional experiments such as
anomalous x-ray diffraction must be conducted to determine the nature of
these transitions. Introducing Ce into SmCoIn₅ disrupts the additional
phase transitions observed in SmCoIn₅ and results in a single, broad
transition in the specific heat for concentrations down to x = 0.175. On
the Ce-rich side of the phase diagram, we

Figure 2: (a), (b) Lattice constants, a and c, plotted as a function of
x, respectively. (c) Volume of the unit cell, V, plotted as a function
of x. (d) Representative powder x-ray diffraction pattern for an x = 0.1
sample (black circles) and calculated fit from the Rietveld refinement
(red line) used to determine the lattice constants a and c. In panels
(a)–(c), dashed lines are guides to the eye. Error bars for all
concentrations and most are less than or of the order of 10⁻⁴ Å;
however, the x = 0.5 sample has a larger error bar of the order of 10⁻³
Å.

Figure 1: Energy-dispersive x-ray spectroscopy (EDX) measurements were
performed on selected single crystals of Ce_(1 − x)Sm_(x)CoIn₅. We
observed excellent agreement between the measured and nominal Sm
concentrations. EDX measurements were performed at several locations for
each sample to evaluate the chemical homogeneity of synthesized single
crystals. The dashed line is a guide to the eye.

find that superconductivity is rapidly suppressed by x = 0.15.
Electrical resistivity data demonstrate that the Kondo coherence
temperature T^(*) is also suppressed with increasing x. The evolution of
SC and AFM order across the Ce_(1 − x)Sm_(x)CoIn₅ phase diagram provides
information about the interplay of these two phenomena and
non-Fermi-liquid (NFL) behavior of the physical properties near a QCP in
this system.

## II Experimental Details

Single-crystalline samples of Ce_(1 − x)Sm_(x)CoIn₅ were grown using a
molten In flux as described in Ref. [26]. The crystal structure was
characterized through analysis of powder x-ray diffraction (XRD)
patterns collected by a Bruker D8 Discover x-ray diffractometer using a
Cu Kα source. The chemical composition was investigated by means of
energy-dispersive x-ray spectroscopy (EDX) using an FEI Quanta 600
scanning electron microscope equipped with an INCA EDX detector from
Oxford Instruments. Four-wire electrical resistivity measurements, ρ(T),
were performed from 300 K down to ∼ 1.1 K in a pumped ⁴He Dewar and down
to 1.8 K in a Quantum Design Physical Property Measurement System (PPMS)
DynaCool. For selected samples, ρ(T) was also measured down to 25 mK in
an Oxford Kelvinox-300 ³He-⁴He dilution refrigerator. Magnetic
susceptibility measurements were performed between 300 and 2 K in a
Quantum Design Magnetic Property Measurement System equipped with a 7 T
superconducting magnet. Specific heat measurements were performed down
to 1.8 K in a Quantum Design PPMS DynaCool and down to 0.5 K using a ³He
option. All specific heat measurements were made using a standard
thermal relaxation technique.

## III Results

### Crystal structure

EDX measurements were performed on selected single crystals used for
measurements in this study; we observed excellent agreement between
measured (x_(EDX)) and nominal Sm concentration values (x_(nom)) over
the entire range of x as shown in Fig. 1. Deviations from this agreement
may represent inhomogeneity within the single crystals being measured by
EDX or experimental error from the analysis on Sm concentration. Another
plausible explanation is the formation of SmIm₃ using excess In from the
molten flux melt which would contribute to a Sm deficiency in the single
crystals. This explanation is backed by observations in C(T)
measurements of rare Ce_(1 − x)Sm_(x)CoIn₅ single crystals showing
multiple peaks associated with SmIm₃ transitions [24]. Crystals
exhibiting this behavior were screened; however, this could still
account for small deficiencies in Sm which can be manifested in EDX and
powder XRD data for the lattice parameters. These results

Figure 3: Electrical resistivity, ρ, normalized by its value at 300 K,
plotted vs temperature, T, for Ce_(1 − x)Sm_(x)CoIn₅. (a) Samples with
low Sm concentration display both a coherence peak associated with the
formation of a coherent Kondo lattice and superconductivity (see inset)
that is suppressed with increasing x. (b) As x increases above 0.6, we
observe a crossover into a single-ion-like Kondo effect in which Ce ions
behave as a magnetic impurity in SmCoIn₅. (c) On the Sm-rich side of the
phase diagram, the only salient feature observed is a sharp, “kneelike”
feature consistent with AFM order of the Sm sublattice, as observed
previously (see inset) [12].

suggest that there is neither a solubility limit nor a miscibility gap
in the Ce1-x Sm_(x)CoIn₅ system.

Rietveld refinements were performed on powder XRD patterns for each
sample using gsas[27] and exgqui[28]; the lattice constants are
presented in Figs. 2(a) and 2(b), while the unit-cell volume is shown in
Fig. 2(c). The Ce1-x Sm_(x)CoIn₅ system exhibits a single tetragonal
crystal structure with space group P4/mmm over the entire concentration
range. A representative XRD pattern for an x = 0.1 sample is displayed
in Fig. 2(d). The expected Bragg reflection pattern is shown in red and
the measured XRD pattern is displayed as a black scatter plot that
overlaps the refined XRD pattern. The agreement between our data and the
refinement results was excellent for all samples with typical reduced χ²
values of less than 5. The lattice constants, a and c, along with the
unit-cell volume, V, decrease linearly with increasing Sm concentration
which is in agreement with Vegard’s law [see Figs. 2(a)-2(c)]. This
adherence to Vegard’s law suggests that the Sm valence remains constant
at 3+ for all concentrations.

### Electrical resistivity

Electrical resistivity, ρ(T), measurements were performed on selected
samples in the Ce1-x Sm_(x)CoIn₅ system, and the data are displayed in
Fig. 3. The behavior of ρ(T) evolves with increasing Sm concentration
through three distinct regions: low Sm concentrations with x ≤ 0.6
[panel (a)], intermediate region 0.7 ≤ x ≤ 0.85 [panel (b)], and high
Sm-concentration region of x ≥ 0.9 [panel (c)]. From published studies,
we expect a superconducting transition in CeCoIn₅[3, 4, 5] and three
successive phase transitions, one of which is AFM, for SmCoIn₅[11, 12].
Our data for the parent compounds are consistent with published studies;
rare-earth substitution (Sm for Ce or Ce for Sm) away from the Ce- and
Sm-based parent compounds suppresses these transitions to lower
temperatures.

Upon chemical substitution away from the Ce- and Sm-based end member
compounds, both T_(N) and T_(c) appear to be suppressed linearly
initially (see the phase diagram in Fig. 4); we were unable to observe
evidence for coexistence of SC and AFM order in measurements down to ∼
25 mK at any Sm concentration, x. We note that it was difficult to
clearly identify AFM order for some concentrations due to the presence
of the coherence peak and the decreasing size of the drop in ρ(T)
associated with the onset of the AFM order. Therefore, only electrical
resistivity data are used to identify T_(c), while T_(N) is determined
from specific heat data that will be discussed below. These results are
summarized in the phase diagram in Fig. 4.

As we alloy away from each parent compound, we also observe a change in
the interplay between the Ruderman-Kittel-Kasuya-Yosida (RKKY)
interaction and the Kondo effect. For CeCoIn₅, a coherence peak in ρ(T)
associated with the formation of a Kondo lattice involving Ce³⁺ ions is
observed. With increasing x, the coherence peak gradually shifts to
lower temperature and broadens as seen in Fig. 3(a). The magnitude and
position of the peak in ρ(T) associated with Kondo lattice behavior may
not evolve smoothly throughout the alloy series due to the influence on
the aforementioned Kondo lattice of single-ion Kondo-like behavior, AFM
and other types of order of the Sm ions, RKKY interactions between Ce
and Sm ions, crystalline electric field effects, atomic disorder, etc.
These effects are highly sensitive to the Ce to Sm ratio which may vary
somewhat throughout a Ce1-x Sm_(x)CoIn₅ single crystal. For x ≥ 0.7, the
Ce³⁺ ion concentration is so dilute that a coherent Kondo lattice can no
longer form, which explains the absence of a coherence peak for x ≥ 0.7.
Instead, a minimum followed by an upturn in ρ(T) with decreasing
temperature is observed as shown in Fig. 3(b). This behavior is
reminiscent of the single-ion Kondo effect associated with a moderately
dilute concentration of Ce³⁺ ions dissolved into SmCoIn₅. The RKKY
interaction dominates for x ≥ 0.9, which leads to long-range magnetic
ordering of Sm³⁺ ions.

### Magnetization

Magnetization measurements were performed on single crystals in the
Ce1-x Sm_(x)CoIn₅ system with an applied magnetic field H = 5 kOe
oriented parallel to the ab plane; M(T)/H data are shown in Fig. 5 for
representative samples. This behavior is consistent with a Curie-Weiss
law, shown in Eq. (1), for temperatures above ∼ 50 K.

$$\frac{M}{H}=\frac{C}{T-\theta_{\text{CW}}}.$$
(1)

It is challenging to perform a Curie-Weiss analysis of our M/H data
since we have two distinct magnetic species with an easy axis along the
c axis[7] on the Ce-rich side and perpendicular to the c axis[11] on the
Sm-rich side. These issues along with the likelihood of the samples
hosting minor amounts of magnetic impurities contribute to the magnetic
susceptibility’s nonmonotonic behavior with x. Therefore, we are unable
to provide a detailed analysis of the evolution of the effective
magnetic moment, μ_(eff), and Curie-Weiss temperature, θ, with Sm
concentration x.

A Curie-Weiss analysis of the M(H, T) data for SmCoIn₅ is shown in Fig.
6. This analysis yielded an effective magnetic moment
μ_(eff) = 1.00μ_(B) and a Curie-Weiss temperature θ = −73 K. The value
of μ_(eff) for Sm is slightly larger than the

Figure 4: Superconducting critical temperature, T_(c), and Sm ordering
temperatures T₁, T₂, and T₃ (where T₁ is the Néel temperature, T_(N)) vs
Sm concentration, x. Lines are guides to the eye.

Sm³⁺ free ion Hund’s rule value of 0.84μ_(B)[29]. A negative value for θ
reflects the influence of AFM interactions and the Van Vleck
temperature-independent contribution to χ(T).

### Specific heat

Specific heat measurements from 2 to 30 K are shown in Fig. 7.
Additional measurements down to 0.5 K were also performed for selected
samples with concentrations near the concentration where T_(N) is
completely suppressed (AFM QCP) to look for NFL behavior. Data for
Ce_(1 − x)Sm_(x)CoIn₅ and LaCoIn₅ single crystals for T > 30 K are
similar, particularly the T² dependence of C/T which suggests that
LaCoIn₅ is a suitable nonmagnetic reference compound due to the
similarity in the phonon contribution to the specific heat. The
superconducting transition in CeCoIn₅ is observed with a sharp jump at
T_(c) = 2.3 K. For Sm-rich compounds, we can identify up to three
different phase transitions which are consistent with electrical
resistivity and magnetization measurements as shown in Fig. 8; these
transitions are likely associated with

Figure 8: (a) Electrical resistivity, ρ, (b) magnetization divided by
magnetic field, M/H, and (c) specific heat, C, vs temperature, T, in the
range 0 ≤ T ≤ 20 K. Corresponding magnetic transitions can be observed
in the different measurements with the vertical red dashed lines drawn
through T₁, T₂, and T₃ which serve as guides to the eye.

Figure 5: Magnetization, M/H, vs temperature, T, measured in an applied
magnetic field H = 5 kOe. The magnetic field was oriented parallel to
the ab plane.

Figure 6: Magnetization, M/H, and (M/H − χ₀)⁻¹, where χ₀ is a constant,
vs temperature, T, for SmCoIn₅. Best-fit values for the effective
magnetic moment, $\mu_{\rm eff}$, Curie-Weiss temperature, θ, and χ₀
were extracted from a fit of the Curie-Weiss law to the data and are
given in the panel. Features corresponding to magnetic transitions are
observed at low temperatures.

Figure 7: Specific heat, C, vs temperature, T, between 2 and 30 K for
Ce_(1 − x)Sm_(x)CoIn₅ and a nonmagnetic reference compound, LaCoIn₅.

magnetic order, but two of them are currently unidentified as will be
discussed later. The evolution of the specific heat data as we move from
x = 0 to x = 1 is shown in Fig. 9 (where data for LaCoIn₅ are included
for reference). These data were used to construct the phase diagram
displayed in Fig. 4.

The highest transition temperature, T₁, is the Neel temperature, T_(N),
as reported by Inada _et al._[11]. As we substitute Ce into SmCoIn₅, we
observe a continuous suppression of T₁ down to x = 0.175. The second
temperature, T₂, is also suppressed; however, it is not suppressed at
the same rate as T₁, which eventually leads to an overlap of both
transition signatures. This coincidence of features indicates either
that we have only one distinct transition for these concentrations, or
that they cannot be separately resolved by specific heat measurements.
The third characteristic temperature, T₃, only appears as a very subtle
feature in the data for both x = 0.9 and 1 (see Fig. 8). For all other
concentrations (including x = 0.95), the feature at T₃ is either too
small to detect, or it disappears. It is also possible that, like T₂,
this transition merges with the other magnetic transitions. As seen in
the phase diagram, T₃ appears to increase with decreasing x.

Three distinct transitions have been observed in other Sm-based members
of the Sm_(n)M_(m)In_(3n + 2m) family of compounds (M= Rh or Ir;
n = 1, 2; m = 0, 1), such as SmIn₃, SmIrIn₅, SmRhIn₅, SmRhIn₅, and
Sm₂RhIn₈[24, 30, 31]. It is particularly instructive to consider the
compound SmIn₃, which is closely related to SmCoIn₅ (in analogy with the
well-known structural relationship between CeIn₃ and CeCoIn₅). Muon spin
rotation (μSR) measurements have been performed on SmIn₃ to clarify the
nature of the three phase transitions; the results of this study
demonstrated they are all associated with magnetic ordering [30]. From
specific heat data [24], we see similar features indicative of phase
transitions. We conclude that SmCoIn₅ and SmIn₃ each exhibit a similar
AFM transition at their highest transition temperature, T₁. The nature
of the remaining two transitions at T₂ and T₃ is still unknown. From the
aforementioned study on SmIn₃[25], there is evidence of a transition
from incommensurate to commensurate AFM order at T₂; although, the shape
of the specific heat feature is qualitatively different from our data
presented herein. In either case, the nature of T₃ is still unknown.
Additional measurements such as anomalous x-ray diffraction will need to
be conducted to identify the nature of these ordered phases.

Heat capacity measurements were performed down to 0.5 K to characterize
the Ce_(1 − x)Sm_(x)CoIn₅ system around the potential AFM QCP. Figure 10
shows C(T)/T data plotted on a semilogarithmic scale for selected
concentrations in the vicinity of the possible QCP near x = 0.15.
Consistent with NFL behavior, C(T)/T for x = 0.15 diverges
logarithmically with decreasing T over a large temperature range.
Neighboring concentrations do not exhibit this strong logarithmic
divergence in T due to the higher values of T_(c) (x = 0.1) and T_(N)
(x = 0.175, 0.225, 0.25, 0.3, and 0.4), restricting the range within
which NFL behavior can reasonably be distinguished. This picture is
consistent with the current phase diagram in Fig. 4. As we see from our
measurements, SC is observed up to a concentration x = 0.1 where
T_(c) ≈ 1 K and AFM is last observed at x = 0.175 below T_(N) ≈ 1.2 K.
Despite performing measurements down to 0.5 K, we were unable to observe
any additional phase transitions at the concentration x = 0.15. The
suppression of T_(c) and T_(N) with x becomes

Figure 10: Specific heat, C, divided by temperature, T, C/T, vs log(T)
for selected Sm concentrations x near a potential AFM QCP. C(T)/T
exhibits a logarithmic divergence in T for x = 0.15, behavior that is
consistent with quantum criticality. For other concentrations (x = 0.1,
0.175, 0.225, 0.25, 0.3, and 0.4), this behavior is not as apparent due
to the proximity to their respective phase transitions, distance from
the QCP, and the limited temperature range over which logarithmic
behavior in T can be identified.

Figure 9: Specific heat, C, plotted vs temperature, T, for LaCoIn₅ and
Ce_(1 − x)Sm_(x)CoIn₅ (x = 0, 0.05, 0.25, 0.5, 0.7, 0.8, 0.9, and 1) to
demonstrate the evolution of behavior; we move from superconductivity on
the Ce-rich side to antiferromagnetic order on the Sm-rich side.

nonlinear in this concentration range; instead, SC is suppressed much
more rapidly with x for x > 0.1, while AFM order is suppressed more
rapidly with decreasing x for x < 0.175. From this picture, we suggest
that a QCP, associated with the suppression of both the SC and AFM
phases where T_(c) and T_(N) are driven to zero temperatures, lies in
very close proximity to the concentration x = 0.15.

The apparent AFM QCP at x_(QCP) ≈ 0.15 for Ce_(1 − x)Sm_(x)CoIn₅ reveals
a gradual suppression of T_(N) with decreasing x in comparison to other
substituted 115 compounds in which the AFM QCP occurs at larger values
of x, such as CeCo_(1 − x)Rh_(x)In₅[32,33] (x_(QCP) ≈ 0.25),
Y_(1 − x)Ce_(x)RhIn₅[26] (x_(QCP) ≈ 0.65), and La_(1 − x)Ce_(x)RhIn₅[34]
(x_(QCP) ≈ 0.5). This may suggest a robust AFM phase in SmCoIn₅,
supported by evidence of three distinct magnetic transitions, when
compared to the AFM phase in CeRhIn₅. The measurements reported herein
do not provide any evidence for the coexistence of the superconducting
and AFM phases associated with the Ce and Sm ions, respectively, in
contrast to CeCo_(1 − x)Rh_(x)In₅ at ambient pressure, in which the Ce
ions are responsible for both the SC and the AFM ordering. Thus, the
Ce_(1 − x)Sm_(x)CoIn₅ system may fall into the class of magnetically
ordered superconductors which consist of a superconducting subsystem
involving electrons associated with Ce ions that interact via the
exchange interaction with a magnetically ordered subsystem consisting of
the localized f electrons of the Sm ions. In these types of systems, SC
has been found to coexist with AFM order and to be suppressed by
ferromagnetic order of localized magnetic moments [35].

## IV Discussion

### Electronic and phonon contributions to specific heat

Further analysis was performed on the specific heat data for
Ce_(1 − x)Sm_(x)CoIn₅ using the Debye model, C/T = γ + βT². By fitting a
straight line to the C/T vs T² data in the temperature range T > T_(N),
we extracted best-fit values for β. We used the values of β to calculate
the values of the characteristic Debye temperature, Θ_(D), using the
relation

$$\beta=\frac{12\pi^{4}N_{A}k_{B}}{5\Theta_{D}^{3}}.$$
(2)

These results are plotted in Fig. 11 where Θ_(D) increases monotonically
with x. Due to the broad features from magnetic ordering and the limited
temperature range in which the Debye model is applicable, characterized
by the calculated Debye temperature, it is difficult to extrapolate
meaningful values of γ. We looked at two characteristic "γ" values as a
general observation, one at 15 K and another at 2 K to compare to the
value (γ = 53 mJ/mol K²) from a study of SmCoIn₅ by Inada _et al._[11].
To do this, we extracted values for C_(e)/T at 2 K, where C_(e)/T =
C/T - βT² is the electronic contribution to the specific heat divided by
temperature; we performed a similar analysis above the magnetic ordering
temperature by selecting C_(e)/T at 15 K. The results for C_(e)/T are
plotted in Fig. 11, where we observe that values for C_(e)/T at high and
low T behave in opposite manners; at 2 K, the value of C_(e)/T simply
decreases with x for x ≥ 0.25 (concentrations where the AFM transition
is clearly observed). This trend can be easily understood since the
closer T_(N) is to 2 K, the larger the magnetic contribution is to
C_(e)/T. For C_(e)/T at 15 K (a high-temperature, normal-state γ), we
observe a similar trend with x as we did at 2 K for x < 0.25; however,
for x ≥ 0.25, there is a monotonic increase in C_(e)/T due to the
introduction of the AFM transition above x = 0.225.

### Entropy calculations from specific heat

Entropy calculations were made using measured specific data via
numerical integration of Eq. (3).

$$S(T)=\int\frac{C_{e}(T)}{T}dT.$$
(3)

Calculations of S(T) associated with magnetic ordering are compared to
various values of the entropy R ln(2J + 1) in Fig. 12 with dashed lines
for $J=\frac{1}{2}$, 1, and $\frac{3}{2}$. Concentrations exhibiting
large peaks in C vs T data (x ≥ 0.5) show a change in slope near
characteristic entropy values. For 0.5 ≤ x ≤ 0.8, the entropy associated
with magnetic ordering is around R ln 2. For Sm-rich concentrations
(x ≥ 0.9), the change in entropy is about R ln 3; we have already
described a crossover in behavior of the electrical resistivity data
that also occurs near x ≈ 0.9 (see Fig. 3).

### Non-Fermi-liquid behavior in low-temperature electrical resistivity

Low-temperature electrical resistivity, ρ(T), data in the paramagnetic
state are often fitted using a power-law function of the usual form:

ρ = ρ₀ + AT^(n).
(4)

Due to errors in the geometrical factor A/L (A = cross-sectional area,
L= length) used to convert electrical resistance R to electrical
resistivity $\rho=R(\frac{A}{L})$, the following equation

Figure 11: Electronic contribution to the specific heat divided by
temperature, C_(e)/T, at 2 K (black squares), temperature-independent
contribution to C_(e)/T at 15 K, above the magnetic ordering temperature
(blue triangles), and Debye temperature Θ_(D) (red circles), all plotted
as a function of Sm concentration x, in Ce_(1 − x)Sm_(x)CoIn₅. Dashed
curves are guides to the eye. The procedures for determining the values
of C_(e)/T at 2 and 15 K are described in the text.

was fitted to the normalized resistivity, $\rho(x,T)/\rho(300~{}\rm K)$,
data:

$$(\rho-\rho_{0})/\rho(300~{}\rm K)=A^{\prime}T^{n},$$
(5)

where $A^{\prime}=A/\rho(300~{}\rm K)$.

Exponents, n, that are subquadratic, indicative of NFL behavior, were
observed to develop in the 0 ≤ x ≤ 0.5 concentration region. This
fitting procedure is reasonable around the projected QCP near x = 0.15;
however, due to the proximity to the superconducting and magnetically
ordered phases, the temperature range in which this fit can be achieved
is very small. By plotting $\log[(\rho-\rho_{0})/\rho(300~{}\rm K)]$ vs
log T (see Fig. 13), we observed a linear region which corresponds to a
constant value of n. Extracting n as the slope of the line in these
plots, we plotted $\rho_{0}/\rho(300~{}\rm K)$, A^(′), and n vs x to
characterize the behavior of the electrical resistivity around the QCP
as shown in Fig. 14. We observe a decreasing NFL exponent of n ≈ 1 at
x = 0 to n ≈ 0.13 at x = 0.15 before n returns to n ≈ 1 as x increases
beyond the QCP near x = 0.15. The normalized residual resistivity,
$\rho_{0}/\rho(300~{}\rm K)$, increases steadily as a function of x,
likely due to the increasing number of magnetic ions introduced via Sm
substitution. The normalized coefficient, A^(′)(x), shows a sharp cusp
near the QCP, which is indicative of NFL behavior. The behavior of n(x)
is consistent with quantum critical behavior where proximity to a QCP in
the normal state results in a departure of the physical properties from
Fermi-liquid behavior where n = 2. The residual resistivity, ρ₀(x), and
the coefficient, A(x), can be determined by multiplying the normalized
residual resistivity, $\rho_{0}(x)/\rho(x,300~{}\rm K)$, and normalized
coefficient, $A^{\prime}(x)=A(x)/\rho(x,300~{}\rm K)$, by the value of
$\rho(x,300~{}\rm K)$ determined by making a least-squares fit of the
relation $\rho(x,300~{}\rm K)=\rho(0,300~{}\rm K)+\alpha$ to the
$\rho(x,300~{}\rm K)$ data. This fit yields the values
$\rho(0,300~{}\rm K)=0.21\pm 0.19$ mΩ cm and α = 2.23 ± 0.80 mΩ cm. The
errors reflect the scatter in the measured values of
$\rho(x,300~{}\rm K)$, which are partially due to uncertainties in the
geometrical factor used to convert R(T) to ρ(T).

The power-law behavior of the electrical resistivity in this system is
consistent with a previous study of other Ce_(1 − x)R_(x)CoIn₅ systems
($R=\rm Yb$, $\rm Y$, $\rm Lu$, $\rm Er$, $\rm Dy$, $\rm Gd$) by
Paglione _et al._[36], in which values of n ≲ 1 were found for various R
substituents. Furthermore, an inverse proportionality between n and ρ₀
for each R ion was found, similar to what we have observed in the
Ce_(1 − x)Sm_(x)CoIn₅ system.

## V V. Concluding remarks

Based on powder x-ray diffraction, electrical resistivity,
magnetization, and specific heat measurements on Ce_(1 − x)Sm_(x)CoIn₅
single crystals, we constructed a T vs x phase diagram for this system.
As Sm is substituted for Ce, we observe a crossover from
superconductivity on the Ce-rich side to antiferromagnetism and other
types of order whose origin is currently unknown on the Sm-rich side. We
observed NFL

Figure 12: Electronic entropy, S(T), calculated as described in the
text, plotted vs temperature, T. Dashed lines showing Rln (2J + 1) at
various values of total angular momentum J are provided for comparison.

behavior consistent with quantum criticality in the intermediate region
0.1 < x < 0.225. There appears to be an AFM QCP in the vicinity of
x = 0.15 with no indication of coexistence of SC and AFM. An evolution
from Kondo coherence to single-ion Kondo behavior and then eventually to
magnetic ordering via the RKKY interaction (and other types of order)
occurs as x increases from 0 to 1. Since Sm has a high neutron
absorption cross section making it unsuitable for neutron-scattering
measurements, further studies into this compound using techniques such
as anomalous x-ray diffraction will be necessary to elucidate the nature
of magnetic order in the Ce_(1 − x)Sm_(x)CoIn₅ system.

###### Acknowledgements.

Research at the University of California, San Diego was supported by the
US Department of Energy, Office of Basic Energy Sciences, Division of
Materials Science and Engineering under Grant No. DE-FG02-04-ER46105
(materials synthesis and characterization) and the US National Science
Foundation under Grant No. DMR-1206553 (low-temperature measurements).
Research at Kent State University was supported by the US National
Science Foundation under Grant No. DMR-1505826 (low-temperature specific
heat measurements).

## References

* (1) P. Gegenwart, Q. Si, and F. Steglich, Nature Phys. **4**, 186
(2008). * (2) F. Steglich, J. Arndt, S. Friedemann, C. Krellner, Y.
Toskiwa, T. Westerkamp, M. Brando, P. Gegenwart, C. Geibel, S. Wirth,
and O. Stockert, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter **22**, 164202 (2010). * (3)
J. D. Thompson and Z. Fisk, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **81**, 011002 (2012). *
(4) G. Stewart, Rev. Mod. Phys. **56**, 755 (1984). * (5) F. Steglich,
C. Geibel, R. Modler, M. Lang, P. Hellmann, and P. Gegenwart, J. Low
Temp. Phys. **99**, 267 (1995). * (6) B. D. White, J. D. Thompson, and
M. B. Maple, Physica C **514**, 246 (2015). * (7) C. Petrovic, P. G.
Pagliuso, M. F. Hundley, R. Movshovich, J. L. Sarrao, J. D. Thompson,
and Z. Fisk, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter **13**, L337 (2001). * (8) L. H.
Greene, W. K. Park, J. L. Sarrao, and J. D. Thompson, Physica B **378**,
671 (2006). * (9) B. B. Zhou, S. Misra, E. H. da Silva Neto, P.
Aynajian, R. E. Baumbach, J. D. Thompson, E. D. Bauer, and A. Yazdani,
Nat. Phys. **9**, 474 (2013). * (10) M. P. Allan, F. Massee, D. K. Morr,
J. Van Dyke, A. W. Rost, A. P. Mackenzie, C. Petrovic, and J. C. Davis,
Nat. Phys. **9**, 468 (2013). * (11) Y. Inada, M. Hedo, T. Fujiwara, T.
Sadamasa, and Y. Uwatoko, Physica B **378**, 421 (2006). * (12) M.
Koeda, M. Hedo, T. Fujiwara, Y. Uwatoko, T. Sadamasa, and Y. Inada, J.
Phys. Soc. Jpn. **76**, 62 (2007). * (13) E. D. Bauer, M. M. Alarawneh,
P. H. Tobash, K. Gofryk, O. E. Ayala-Valenzuela, J. N. Mitchell, R. D.
McDonald, C. H. Mielke, F. Ronning, J.-C. Griveau, E. Colineau, R.
Eloirdi, R. Caciuffo, B. L. Scott, O. Janka, S. M. Kauzlarich, and J. D.
Thompson, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter **24**, 052206 (2012). * (14) L.
Shu, R. E. Baumbach, M. Janoschek, E. Gonzales, K. Huang, T. A. Sayles,
J. Paglione, J. O’Brien, J. J. Hamlin, D. A. Zocco, P.-C. Ho, C. A.
McElroy, and M. B. Maple, Phys. Rev. Lett. **106**, 156403 (2011). *
(15) C. Capan, G. Seyfarth, D. Hurt, B. Prevost, S. Roorda, A. D.
Bianchi, and Z. Fisk, Europhys. Lett. **92**, 47004 (2010). * (16) L.
Dudy, J. D. Denlinger, L. Shu, M. Janoschek, J. W. Allen, and M. B.
Maple, Phys. Rev. B **88**, 165118 (2013). * (17) T. Hu, Y. P. Singh, L.
Shu, M. Janoschek, M. Dzero, M. B. Maple, and C. C. Almasan, Proc. Natl.
Acad. Sci. **110**, 7160 (2013). * (18) A. Polyakov, O. Ignatchik, B.
Bergk, K. Gotze, A. D. Bianchi, S. Blackburn, B. Prevost, G. Seyfarth,
M. Cote, D. Hurt, C. Capan, Z. Fisk, R. G. Goodrich, I. Sheikin, M.
Richter, and J. Wosnitza, Phys. Rev. B **85**, 245119 (2012). * (19) H.
Kim, M. A. Tanatar, R. Flint, C. Petrovic, R. Hu, B. D. White, I. K.
Lum, M. B. Maple, and R. Prozorov, Phys. Rev. Lett. **114**, 027003
(2015). * (20) Y. Xu, J. K. Dong, I. K. Lum, J. Zhang, X. C. Hong, L. P.
He, K. F. Wang, Y. C. Ma, C. Petrovic, M. B. Maple _et al._, Phys. Rev.
B **93**, 064502 (2016). * (21) O. Erten, R. Flint, and P. Coleman,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **114**, 027002 (2015). * (22) M. Shimozawa, T.
Watashige, S. Yasumoto, Y. Mizukami, M. Nakamura, H. Shishido, S. K.
Goh, T. Terashima, T. Shibauchi, and Y. Matsuda, Phys. Rev. B **86**,
144526 (2012). * (23) S. Jang, B. D. White, I. K. Lum, H. Kim, M. A.
Tanatar, W. E. Straszheim, R. Prozorov, T. Keiber, F. Bridges, L. Shu,
and R. E. Baumbach, Philos. Mag. **94**, 4219 (2014). * (24) M. Kasaya,
B. Liu, M. Sera, T. Kasuya, D. Endoh, T. Goto, and T. Fujimura, J. Magn.
Magn. Mater. **52**, 289 (1985). * (25) T. U. Ho, W. Higemoto, K.
Ninomiya, H. Luetkens, T. Sugai, Y. Haga, and H. S. Suzuki, J. Magn.
Magn. Mater. **80**, 033701 (2011). * (26) V. S. Zapf, N. A. Frederick,
K. L. Rogers, K. D. Hof, P.-C. Ho, E. D. Bauer, and M. B. Maple, Phys.
Rev. B **67**, 064405 (2003). * (27) A. C. Larson and R. B. von Dreele,
General Structure Analysis System (GSAS), Los Alamos National Laboratory
Report LAUR 86-748 (1994). * (28) H. M. Rietveld, J. Appl. Crystallogr.
**2**, 65 (1969). * (29) J. H. Van Vleck, _The Theory of Electric and
Magnetic Susceptibilities_ (Oxford University Press, New York, 1932). *
(30) Takashi U. Ito, W. Higemoto, K. Ninomiya, H. Luetkens, T. Sugai, Y.
Haga, and H. S. Suzuki, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **80**, 033710 (2011). * (31)
P. G. Pagliuso, J. D. Thompson, M. F. Hundley, J. L. Sarrao, and Z.
Fisk, Phys. Rev. B **63**, 054426 (2001). * (32) V. S. Zapf, E. J.
Freeman, E. D. Bauer, J. Petricka, C. Sirvent, N. A. Frederick, R. P.
Dickey, and M. B. Maple, Phys. Rev. B **65**, 014506 (2001). * (33) J.
R. Jeffries, N. A. Frederick, E. D. Bauer, H. Kimura, V. S. Zapf, K.-D.
Hof, T. A. Sayles, and M. B. Maple, Phys. Rev. B **72**, 024551
(2005). * (34) B. E. Light, R. S. Kumar, A. L. Cornelius, P. G.
Pagliuso, and J. L. Sarrao, Phys. Rev. B **69**, 024419 (2004). * (35)
M. B. Maple, Physica B **215**, 110 (1995). * (36) J. Paglione, T. A.
Sayles, P.-C. Ho, J. R. Jeffries, and M. B. Maple, Nat. Phys. **3**, 703
(2007).
