# Thermally activated flux movement and critical transport current
density

in epitaxial Bi2Sr2CaCu2O8+-8 films

P. Wagner, F. Hillmer, U. Frey, and H. Adrian

Technische Hochschule Darmstadt, Institut fur Festkorperphysik,
Hochschulstrasse 8, 64289 Darmstadt, Germany

Received 6 December 1993

###### Abstract

In this article we report on thermally excited flux creep and the
critical transport current density _jc_ in high-quality epitaxial
Bi2Sr2CaCu2O8+-8 thin films. Both dissipative mechanisms are governed by
the highly anisotropic behavior of this compound which was investigated
by means of the angular dependence of the magnetoresistivity (γ ≥ 150).
The activation energy U for thermally excited flux creep was evaluated
with respect to temperature, magnetic field, and applied current density
_jc_. U(T, B_(c)) is essentially increasing linearly with falling
temperature, power-law dependent on the field (_U_ B - a with a = 0.5),
and almost independent of current density for j <= 105 A/cm2. These
experimental results are consistent with the concept of plastic flux
creep. The critical current density exhibits high absolute values [_jc_
(77 K, B = 0) = 4 x 105 A/cm2] and was measured for magnetic fields in
the configuration **B**∥_c_ up to 10 T and also with respect to various
**Th** angles between the c axis and field direction. The decrease of
_jc_ with increasing B was found to be significantly reduced in
comparison to single crystals and prior results on thin films. A further
enhancement in the _jc_. (_B_,_T_) behavior could not be achieved by
chemical doping through partial substitution of copper by zinc.

## I Introduction

The bismuth cuprates form a stack of Josephson coupled CuO2 layers with
suppressed order parameter in the BiO doublelayers.[1, 2] Therefore
vortex lines decompose into pancake vortices located in the CuO2
(single-, bi-, tri-) layers. Because of the small coupling energy
between pancake vortices in adjacent CuO2 layers they are nearly as
easily thermally activated at higher temperatures (_t_ = _T_/_T__c_ >
0.5) as individual pancake vortices. This thermally activated depinning
gives rise to the significant broadening of resistive transitions in
magnetic fields **B**∥_c_ and to a strong decrease of the critical
current density with increasing field. For Bi_c_ the compound behaves
magnetically inert which was confirmed by the scaling behavior of the
angular-dependent critical current density[3] and the
magnetoresistivity.[4] The degradation of superconducting properties for
**B**∥_c_ limits the application range of wires and tapes at present to
temperatures below t = 0.5. Although the first epitaxial thin films
prepared by laser ablation exceeded the critical current of bulk samples
by two orders of magnitude, the detailed _jc_ data were, especially in
external fields, not very encouraging in comparison to the critical
currents that are easily obtained with YBa2Cu3O7 thin films.[5] However,
by a consequent optimization of the film quality _Jc_ values can be
achieved which are significantly higher than the values in the
literature for all categories of samples, e.g., thin and thick films,
polycrystalline or textured bulk material and single crystals.
Meanwhile, the _jc_ values of liquid phase epitaxy prepared thick films
are on the order of 106 A/cm2 (Balestrino _et al._) and in the range of
107 A/cm2 for molecular beam epitaxy-prepared thin films (Bozovic _et
al._), in both cases in zero field at 4.2 K.[6, 7] Therefore, one can
assume that the improvement of the sample quality in thin-film
preparation is accompanied by a decreasing number of defects to a
density which is still suitable for an enhancement of _jc_. In samples
in the "clean limit," i.e., high-quality single crystals, the density of
defects might be too low for a notable pinning effect, while in
polycrystalline material _jc_ is predominantly limited by the presence
of grain boundaries.

Despite large variances in _jc_, measurements of the activation energy
for thermally activated flux creep lead to very similar values _U_(_T_ -
0,B = 1 T)  = 500-1800 K regardless of the type of the sample or the
evaluation method, indicating that the dominant dissipative mechanisms
in these samples are of similar or related origin in the flux-creep
regime. Additionally this indicates that there is no direct correlation
between the activation energy and the critical current which is
determined not only by the depth of pinning potentials, but also by
their lateral extension, which is responsible for the pinning force
density, and by the correlation volume of flux bundles. The following
defect types have been suggested to act as pinning sites in Bi-2:2:1:2:
oxygen vacancies as proposed by van der Beek and Kes,[8] twin boundaries
in analogy to YBa2Cu3O7 as suggested by Blatter,[9] grain boundaries in
sintered material which were investigated by Muller, Nikolo, and
Driver[10] and the typical screwed dislocations of YBa2Cu3O7.[11] From
the experimental point of view, at least the existence of oxygen
vacancies in the CuO2 planes is inevitable for thermodynamical reasons
although their density can be reduced by appropriate annealing
procedures. Screw dislocations could up to now neither be detected in
_in situ_ nor in _ex situ_ prepared Bi-2:2:1:2 thin films[12, 13] and
also in YBa2Cu3O7 films their influence on the pinning is unclear yet. A
twinning within the _ab_ plane seems to be an intrinsic defect at least
for Bi-2:2:1:2 thin films, since there is a nonvanishing difference
between the a and the b axis of approximately 3 x 10-3 A, caused by the
incommensurate superstructure in the b direction. The lateral extension
of coherent orientation within a and b axes was determined by plane view
TEM.14 It is of the order of at least 1500 A, which is in agreement with
results on films prepared by laser ablation.15 For comparison in
YBa2Cu3O7 with its more pronounced _a,b_ difference of 0.06 A, the
extension of these domains is in the range 500 A.16 To our present
knowledge there is at least no evidence that _ab_ twinning lowers the
critical current, since the films discussed in this article exhibit _ab_
twinning, while a _j_c of 107 A/cm2 at 4.2 K is reached reproducibly.
Arbitrarily oriented grain boundaries, however, definitely induce a
significant suppression of _j_c in the case of thin films: As recently
shown by Mayer _et al._ Bi-2:2:1:2 films deposited on SrTiO3
grain-boundary substrates exhibit resistively shunted junction-like
_I_(_V_) curves and Josephson behavior in junctions placed over the
grain boundaries.17 The absence of these arbitrarily oriented boundaries
for the films discussed here was confirmed by careful Ph scans with an
angular resolution better than 0.2deg.

## II Experimental

Thin films of Bi-2:2:1:2 have been prepared by an _in situ_ sputtering
method onto heated (100) SrTiO3 substrates as described in detail in
Ref. 12. For the films with zinc doping the composition of the target
was modified to Bi2.05Sr2.00Ca1.00 (Cu0.99

## III Results and discussion

### Anisotropy and angular-dependent properties

Regarding solely the chemical unit cell of Bi-2:2:1:2, it is very
similar to YBa2Cu3O7 concerning especially the mutual distance of the
CuO2 bilayers (3.1 and 3.8 A, respectively) and the number and mobility
of charge carriers in the CuO2 planes [0.38-0.42 at 300 K per Cu atom
with _m_(100 K) = 19-22 _m_V] for both systems.19 The pronounced
anisotropy emerges from the distance between the bilayers in adjacent
chemical unit cells which is 7.9 A for YBa2Cu3O7 and 12.3 A for
Bi-2:2:1:2, exceeding the coherence length g_(c)(_T_ = 0) = 2-3 A.20
Dissipation arising from a magnetic field B tilted by an angle r versus
the crystallographic c direction can be ascribed to the reduced field
B_(red) = B(cos²Θ + 1/γ²sin²Θ)^(1/2) in the sense of the scaling
proposed by Blatter, Geshkenbein, and Larkin.21 Defining the anisotropy
parameter $\gamma (= \sqrt{m_{c}/m_{ab}})$ this way, the widely accepted
values by Farrell _et al._ and by Raffy _et al._ were 55 as a lower
bound and 29-36, respectively.22,23 The crucial factor in these
measurements however is the need for a narrow angular distribution of
the _c_-axis orientation within the samples as all spread of this
orientation lowers the derived g values. Therefore, we emphasize that
the intrinsic g value for Bi-2:2:1:2 is considerably higher: Recent
results by Steinmeyer _et al._ (magnetic torque at Bi-2:2:1:2 single
crystals) gave a sample dependent g between 140 and 900 at 77 K.24 It is
to note that g = 140 was obtained for a single crystal annealed in
oxygen, while g = 900 was measured for a crystal with artificially
reduced oxygen content by annealing in argon. This is a hint that the
excess oxygen placed interstitially in the BiO double layers can act by
charge transfer as a coupling between CuO2 layers in adjacent chemical
unit cells. The mechanical contraction, however, seems to be of minor
influence for the resulting g value as the measured _c_-axis difference
between a heavily oxygen-overdoped film (with inductively measured T_(c)
of 65-66 K) and a film with optimized oxygen content (T_(c) = 90 K) was
found to be less than 0.1, i.e, 30.78, and 30.85 A, respectively.

In order to determine g independently we made use of the scaling of the
magnetoresistivity using a high-quality film [FWHM (00|_l_) = 0.30deg in
Ph scan, T_(c)^(zero) = 88.0 K achieved by optimizing the oxygen
content, inductive transition width 1 K]. The magnetoresistivity
measurements shown in Fig. 1(a) were performed at 85.10 +- 0.01 K on a
rotatable sample stage with Ph angles (angle between the c axis and
field direction) of 0deg, 30deg, 60deg, 75deg, 84deg, 87deg, 89deg, and
90deg, while the current was always flowing perpendicular to the field
direction. The relative resolution in the 90deg position was better than
0.04deg. All data points of Fig. 1(a) coalesce into one line by
introducing the reduced field (field component perpendicular to the
film’s surface) B|cos Θ|, corresponding to g = .0, which is shown in
Fig. 1(b). In the region of vanishing reduced field and resistivity [_r_
< 1_m_l O m, B_(d) < 1 T in the inset of Fig. 1(b)] we studied the
coincidence of the data points for increasing g parameters and a
continuous improvement was still obtained for g > 150 so that it was not
possible to determine an upper bound of g. From the fact that for B∥c
the first occurrence of magnetoresistivity was observed at 40 mT, while
for B⊥c no magnetoresistance could be detected even at B = 6 T one can
conclude that g is definitely above 150 which is significantly higher
than the value of Farrell and in agreement with the data of Steinmeyer.
It is to note that at the measurement temperature the magnetoresistance
effects on the Pt temperature sensor are negligible.

Because of the divergence of g_(c) for T - T_(c) one should expect a
coupling between CuO2 bilayers in adjacent chemical unit cells for
sufficiently high temperatures, resulting in notable deviations from the
simple (two-dimensional) (2D) description which is still valid as close
as 3 K below T_(c). Angular-dependent measurements of the
magnetoresistivity performed at 88.0, 89.0, 90.0, and 92 K for B = 1 T,
see Fig. 2(a), can still be precisely described by the purely 2D-type
scaling r_(b)(_T_,B = 1 T,O = r_(b)(_T_,B = 1 T-cos0,0). The data points
for magnetoresistivity in the orientation B∥c in Fig. 2(b) were
parametrized by spline interpolation and taken for the (solid) fit lines
in Fig. 2(a) which take completely into account the cusplike shape for
O - 90deg without any evidence of rounding. This suggests that the
conductivity above T_(c) is primarily based on 2D fluctuations and the
assumed 3D temperature region is extremely narrow. In a recent article
by Silva _et al._ it was demonstrated that there is indeed clear
evidence for the 2D - 3D transition by means of angular-dependent
measurements of the depinning field slightly below T_(c),25 but there
were no data for the scaling above T_(c) yet.

### Current dependence and temperature regime for thermally activated
flux creep

In order to determine the temperature and current-density region where
the model of thermally activated flux creep holds, for a detailed
description see Ref. 26, the resistive transitions were measured for a
film with T_(c) zero = 84 K in a field of 1 T with currents from 1 _m_A
to

Figure 2: Angular-dependent magnetoresistivity for B = 1 T at T = 88.0,
89.0, 90.0, and 92.0 K (a). The solid lines in (a) are fit functions
based on the master curves for B∥c shown in (b). Note that the cusplike
shape for O - 90° remains even above T_(c).

Figure 1: Magnetoresistivity for a film with T_(c) = 88.0 at 85.10 K
under various angles _σ_ between c axis and field orientation (a). In
the case of Δ = 90° no magnetoresistivity is induced for B = 6 T. All
curves coalesce with the Δ = 0° measurement by introducing the reduced
field _B_∥cosΔ|, corresponding to a quasi-2D behavior, while 150 is a
lower bound for the _γ_ parameter (b). The inset of (b) shows the region
for reduced fields below 1 T on an enlarged scale.

100 mA, corresponding to 1.25 A/cm² up to 1.25×10⁵ A/cm². As can be seen
from Fig. 3 the voltage vs 1000/T curves are shifted parallel and the
local slopes do not depend on j although the current densities differ by
five orders of magnitude. Therefore, it is not necessary to regard the
limit j→0 to evaluate the true activation energy, for which the slopes
deliver a first approximation in the limit T→0, as there is no hint for
a drastically increasing or even divergent activation energy with
decreasing current density. The temperature regime of linear Arrhenius
plots in Fig. 3 ranges from approximately 80 down to 36 K where the
resolution limit of the nanovoltmeter was reached in the case of the
100-mA measurement. Within this temperature interval the resistivity
drops by six orders of magnitude from 10 to 10⁻⁵μΩ cm. The broadening in
the 100-mA curve (10⁵ A/cm²) in the low-temperature region is the first
deviation from purely ohmic behavior and related to decreasing
activation energy as heating effects have been strictly minimized. A
notable decrease of the activation energy was observed in YBa₂Cu₃O₇ thin
films as soon as the current density exceeded 10³ A/cm². This was also
reported by Zeldov _et al._ for Bi-2:2:1:2 thin films with a limit of
3×10³ A/cm².[27] However the normal-state resistivity of Zeldov’s sample
is higher than that of our sample by a factor of 10 and the broadening
in the external field is significantly more pronounced so that the
threshold current densities cannot be compared directly.

In order to get an impression of the flux-creep temperature regime a
suitable method is to examine the so-called "apparent activation energy"
f(t) = −d lnρ/dT⁻¹, corresponding to the local slope of the Arrhenius
plots. Figure 4(a) shows representatively f(t) vs T of a film with
$T_{c}^{\rm zero}(B=0)$ = 87 K for B= 2 T at temperatures close to
T_(c). The kink at 91 K, denoted by T^(⋆), may be interpreted as a
transition from the flux-flow mechanism to the creep dominated regime.
T^(⋆) also corresponds to the temperature of the inflection point of the
transition. Note that T^(⋆) does not shift by changing the field
strength and at this temperature, with the evident change in the vortex
dynamics, also measurements of the Hall effect exhibit the maximum
amplitude of the negative Hall voltage. Although the onset of flux creep
is commonly supposed to occur at temperatures where the resistivity is
below 0.01 of its normal state value above T_(c), we emphasize that at
this temperature T^(⋆), where ρ ≈ 0.1×ρ_(n), the apparent activation
energy attains an equilibrium value. A lower temperature limit for flux
creep in the vortex liquid regime cannot be derived from these data for
small magnetic fields as the transition to the vortex-glass state is
supposed to happen below 30 K, where the resistivity cannot be resolved
exactly by means of a transport measurement. Arrhenius plots of
resistive transitions in higher magnetic fields however, where the
transitions can be studied to sufficiently low temperatures, exhibit
notable changes from linear behavior. In order to enhance the
resistivity resolution to 10⁻⁴μΩ cm a transition in B= 6 T was recorded
with j= 10⁴ A/cm² allowing one to follow the resistive transition down
to 30 K. The apparent activation energy f(T), shown in Fig. 4(b),
exhibits a clear increase below 30 K which indicates a beginning
deviation from the creep mechanism and was related by Safar to a
transition into the vortex-glass state.[28] As

Figure 4: Temperature dependence of the apparent activation energy f(T)
at B= 2 T in the vicinity of T_(c) (a) and at low temperatures for B= 6
T (b). Below the field-independent temperature T^(⋆), f(T) remains
constant and undergoes a steady increase at 30 K which can be related to
a transition from the vortex-liquid to vortex-glass state (Ref. 28).

Figure 3: Arrhenius plots of a resistive transition for B= 1 T measured
with six different currents ranging from 1μA to 100 mA. Only for the
highest current, corresponding to 10⁹ A/cm², the resistivity becomes
current dependent and the local slope decreases at low temperatures.

the data of Safar were taken for a single crystal with especially weak
pinning, this transition leads to an abrupt divergence in f(T). For the
thin film with its significantly higher value for f(T) also above the
transition temperature the transition seems to be smeared and shifted to
higher temperatures. However from the existence of this transition we
suppose that also in the comparatively strong pinning films the
flux-line dynamics are governed by a collective behavior rather than by
core pinning of individual flux lines where this kind of transition
should not be directly observable.

### Evaluation of U(T, B)

In Figs. 5(a)-5(d) the resistive transitions are shown as ρ vs T plots
and as Arrhenius plots (log₁₀ρ vs 1/T) for the magnetic fields 0,
$\frac{1}{16}$, $\frac{1}{1}$, $\frac{1}{4}$, $\frac{1}{2}$, and 1 T,
and 0, 1, 2, 4, 6, 8, and 10 T, respectively. It is obvious that the
Arrhenius plots in Figs. 5(b) and 5(d) form almost straight lines for
all fields. For the evaluation of the true activation energy U(T, B) it
is necessary to adopt certain models or at least reasonable assumptions:
The local slope of the Arrhenius plots does only directly correspond to
the activation energy if U is either temperature independent (which is
physically unreasonable) or increasing strictly linear with decreasing
temperature, i.e., if U(t) = U₀(1 − t) with t = T/T_(c), then f is
independent of temperature and f = U₀. Taking into account the model
discussed by Palstra _et al._,[26]U(t) should be related to the
condensation energy as U(t) = U₀H_(c)²(t)ξ^(n)(t). The exponent
n( = 1, 2, 3) depends on the dimensionality of the system and H_(c)(t)
and ξ(t) can be expressed by the parabolic approximations
H_(c)(t) ∝ 1 − t² and ξ²(t) = (1 + t²)/(1 − t²). Provided that this
model holds for the description of experimental data, f(t) has
independently of n a pronounced curvature for The exponential prefactor
ρ(T^(*), B) corresponds to the resistivity at the field B and the
temperature T^(*), denoting the temperature at the inflection points of
the transitions (mean field T_(c)) which is field independent at least
for 0.1 T < B< 10 T and below of which f(T) remains almost constant, see
Fig. 4(b). In the case of the sample of Fig. 5, T^(*)(B) is 91.5 K±0.5
K, while $T_{c}^{\rm zero}$ (B =0) = 87.0 K. By this choice of ρ₀, the
activation energy vanishes at the mean field T_(c) and ρ(T^(*), B) has a
physical meaning. Note that the resulting U(T, B) depends on the
particular choice of ρ₀ only to a minor part as it represents only an
additive constant without influence on the variation with temperature.
Therefore it does especially not alter the result when a 1/T dependence
of the prefactor is taken into account as suggested in Ref. [26].

(ii) The procedure proved by Chui and Ma[31] is based on the integration
of f(T)= −dln ρ/dT⁻¹= T²d (U/T)/ dT, which can be obtained by a
numerical derivation of the ρ(B, T) data in Arrhenius form. Numerical
integration results in U(T)= T∫∫_(T_(c))^(T)f(T)/T²dT, which also allows
the activation energy to become zero for T→T_(c). The methods (i) and
(ii) can be shown to be analytically equivalent.

(iii) The inversion scheme by Hagen and Griessen is not directly
applicable to the transport measurements, but it allows to extract a
whole spectral distribution of pinning potentials with different
activation energies from magnetic relaxation data.[32] The complication
of a distribution of activation energies will not be taken into account
in this article.

In Fig. 6 the activation energies were derived by method (i) with the
calibration U(T^(*)=92 K) = 0 for all magnetic fields. U(T, B) is in a
first and rather good approximation indeed increasing linearly with
falling temperature in a very similar way as published by Kucera _et
al.[33]_ The absolute U(T, B) values are almost equal too, although
there are significant differences in T_(c), j_(c) and most pronounced in
the normal-state resistivities. The measurement at 10 T exhibits a
slight tendency to an increase U ∝ (1 − t)^(α) with α higher than one.
Therefore, ignoring the effect of a vortex-glass transition which
increases the activation energy drastically below 30 K, the
average-slope data are in fact an approximation of U(T, B) extrapolated
from high temperatures to T = 0. The log₁₀U₀ vs log₁₀B plot in Fig. 7
shows these extrapolated activation energies of four different samples
and fields between $\frac{1}{16}$ and 10 T. The straight lines are
least-square fits of the relation U ∝ B^(−α) to the data with
sample-dependent exponents 0.52 ≤ α ≤ 0.54 coming close to the value of
α= 0.5. Because of the linear U vs T relation this power law holds
independently of temperature. In Fig. 7 it can be seen directly that the
activation energies for the zinc-doped films are of the same absolute
value as for undoped samples and there is no hint for an increase of U
by the chemical doping, at least at a concentration of 0.5

A theoretical attempt predicting exactly the $U\propto(1-t)/\sqrt{B}$
behavior is the model of plastic flux creep ascribing the dissipation to
the plastic shear of dislocations in a weakly pinned vortex liquid by
Geshken

Figure 6: Temperature dependence of the activation energy U(B, T) for
fields below 1 T (a) and for fields up to 10 T (b), evaluated by the
inversion procedure described in the text. Through the linear behavior
in T, the peculiar field dependence of U is independent of temperature.

Figure 7: Activation energies for four different Bi-2:2:1:2 films in
fields between 1/16 and 10 T, derived from the slope of the Arrhenius
plots in the low resistance regime (10⁻²–1μΩ cm). Samples indicated with
▫ and ◼ are pure Bi-2:2:1:2, while the symbols ◇ and ◼ stand for data
derived from films doped with 0.5

bein and co-workers.[35, 36] In this model the activation barrier
corresponds to the free-energy increase caused by the formation of a
double kink in a (continuous) flux line which is the free energy of two
vortex segments with a typical length of the vortex lattice constant
$a\,(\,\propto 1/\sqrt{B}\,)$, lying in the ab plane when the field is
in c direction. The qualitative expression for this energy is
$U_{Pl}\approx\sqrt{m_{ab}/m_{c}}\Phi_{0}^{2}/8\pi^{2}\lambda_{c}^{2}$,
which brings about the characteristic field and temperature dependences.
Making use of anisotropic Ginzburg-Landau theory, as performed in the
article by Kucera _et al._,[33] the quantitative result for B = 1 T with
a γ parameter of 150 is U₀ = 1450 K, which agrees with the experimental
data surprisingly well (1200−1700 K). However, we want to point out that
it is at present not definitely clear why this theory seems to apply
almost perfectly as the theory is based on the concept of a
(anisotropic) three-dimensional system but not on a two-dimensional
compound with clear evidence for the formation of decoupled pancake
vortices. Nevertheless, the plastic flux creep seems to be the mechanism
of dissipation that is suitable for the proper qualitative description
of a large variety of high-temperature superconducting materials except
YBa₂Cu₃O₇, which exhibits curved Arrhenius plots.[26] Approximately
straight Arrhenius plots have been also found in Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O_(8 + δ)
single crystals,[26] in polycrystalline Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O_(8 + δ) thin films
with random ab orientation,[37] in Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O_(10 + δ) thin films[38]
with T_(c) equal to the Bi-2:2:1:2 film discussed here, in high-quality
YBCO/PrBCO superlattices,[39, 40] in ultrathin YBa₂Cu₃O₇ films,[41] in
films and single crystals of the thallium compounds[42] and in
polycrystalline samples of Pb₂Sr₂Y_(0.5) Ca_(0.5)Cu₃O₈.[43] Thus this
feature of the Arrhenius plots is common to all systems with either
intrinsic or artificially tailored two-dimensional behavior. However, we
do not want to ignore that the scaling U vs B does not deliver a power
law with exponent 0.5 for all cases, as this dependence seems to be very
sensitive to the actual sample quality. The formation of vortex kinks is
more probable than the collective motion of ensembles of vortex lines as
the line tension in these compounds is strongly reduced. Due to the weak
correlations along the pancake stack the addition of the zinc atoms can
therefore not hinder the formation of these kinks and this lack of
pinning by pointlike defects was also found in a recent article by vom
Hedt, Westerholt, and Bach by zinc doping of Bi-2:2:1:2 single
crystals.[44]

### Critical current density

Figure 8 shows the temperature dependence of the critical current
density j_(c) in zero field measured with a 1-μV criterion along the
100-μm microstrip for a pure Bi-2:2:1:2 film and a film doped with 0.5

The decay of j_(c) with increasing external field B∥c is shown in Fig. 9
for fields up to 9 T, measured at the 10-μm-wide microstrip with a 1-μV
criterion. The angular dependence of j_(c)(T, B, Θ) was found to be in
complete agreement with the former results of Schmitt concerning the
2D-type scaling

$$j_{c}(T,B,\Theta)=j_{c}(T,B_{\rm red}=B\cdot\cos\Theta,0)$$

Figure 8: Critical current density in zero field for an epitaxial, pure
Bi-2:2:1:2 film (−△−) and a film doped with 0.5

(Ref. 3) and angular-dependent j_(c) data of the films discussed in this
article have been recently published in Ref. 47. Besides the increased
zero-field critical current densities of the sputtered films compared to
the laser-ablated films, in the average by a factor of 4, the most
remarkable improvement is the drastically reduced decline with
increasing field. The resulting differences, dependent on temperature
and field, are up to two or even three orders of magnitude which is
especially apparent in an intermediate temperature range in higher
magnetic fields.[5] For temperatures below 30 K, the j_(c) decay is
additionally reduced, so that a 11 K even in a field of 9 T j_(c) is
still 10⁶ A/cm².

At present the j_(c)(T, B) relation can only be described in a
phenomenological way: Fig. 10 shows the maximum pinning force density
F_(p)^(max)(T) = [j_(c)(T, B) ⋅ B]^(max) versus temperature for a
Zn-doped film, behaving completely equivalently to the pure Bi-2:2:1:2
samples. For temperatures below 40 K, i.e., in the supposed vortex-glass
state, the increase of F_(p)^(max) is in very good approximation
proportional to (1 − T/T_(c))⁴. A comparison of F_(p)^(max)(T) with the
depinning field $B_{\rm dep}(T)$, defined here as
$\rho[B_{\rm dep}(T),T]\!=\!10^{-3}\rho_{n}$ (120 K), in the regime of
the weakly pinned vortex liquid above 40 K reveals
$F_{p}^{\max}(T)\!\propto\!B_{\rm dep}(T)$ as shown in the inset of Fig.
10. This behavior is clearly different from the relation
$F_{p}^{\max}(T)\!\propto\!B_{\rm dep}(T)^{\alpha}$ with α between 1.6
and 2.2, which was determined by Speckmann _et al._ for epitaxial
YBa₂Cu₃O₇ thin films,[48] but it is in full agreement with the data for
epitaxial Bi-2:2:2:3 films by Yamasaki _et al.[38, 49]_ The normalized
pinning force densities plotted versus the reduced field
$b\!=\!B/B_{\rm dep}$ can be described by the Kramer scaling
$[F_{p}(B,T)\!\propto\!B_{\rm dep}^{\alpha}\sqrt{b}\;(1-b)^{2}]$ (Ref.
50) only in limited temperature regions. A convincing coincidence of the
F_(p)(B, T) data for all temperatures could not be achieved yet, which
may be caused by significant differences in the peculiar vortex dynamics
at higher fields for the different temperatures.

## IV Conclusions

We analyzed the resistive transitions by means of thermally assisted
flux creep and found a linearly increasing activation energy with
decreasing temperature depending on the magnetic field like B^(−0.5) for
current densities below 10⁵ A/cm². These results are in full agreement
with the model of Vinokur _et al.[36]_ and describe the decay of
resistivity within almost six orders of magnitude. Taking into account a
mass anisotropy of 150, this model delivers even quantitatively correct
results. Concerning the critical current density, the decay of j_(c) is
still pronounced compared to YBa₂Cu₃O₇ for temperatures above 50 K, but
the possible temperature and field regime for practical applications
demanding at least j_(c) > 10⁴ A/cm² is in these films significantly
extended to higher temperatures as well as fields in comparison to prior
data for epitaxial films. This improvement of critical current in the
films, which was independent of the transport measurements also
confirmed by magnetic relaxation experiments,[46] is related to a
rigorous optimization of the film quality. There is evidence, that in
these films with very low resistivity values and superior structural
properties, the high j_(c) values are not related to the presence of
"many defects" but to a suitable, low defect density.

###### Acknowledgements.

This work was financially supported by the Bundesministerium fur
Forschung und Technologie der Bundesrepublik Deutschland (Contract No.
13 N 5748 A) and by the Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft through SFB 252.
We thank Dr. G. Jakob for helpful and clarifying discussions.

Figure 10: Maximum pinning force density F_(p)^(max) for Bi-2:2:1:2
versus temperature. The increase is proportional to (1 − T/T_(c))⁴,
while F_(p)^(max) depends approximately linear on the depinning field
for temperatures above 40 K. The depinning field was defined by a 0.1

Figure 9: Critical current density at fixed temperatures for fields B∥c
up to 9 T. Due to the high density of data points they are represented
as solid lines. The established values for epitaxial Bi-2:2:1:2 films
prepared by laser ablation are exceeded by two decades in the
intermediate temperature range (Ref. 5).

* [16] R. Kleiner, F. Steinmeyer, G. Kunkel, and P. Muller, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **68**, 2394 (1992). * [17] B. Aigner, B. Avenhaus, R. Kleiner, G.
Kunkel, P. Pospischil, F. Steinmeyer, P. Muller, and K. Andres, IEEE
Trans. Appl. Supercond. **3**, 2281 (1993). * [18] P. Schmitt, P.
Kummeth, L. Schultz, and G. Saemann-Ischenko, Phys. Rev. Lett. **67**,
267 (1991). * [19] P. Wagner, H. Adrian, and C. Tome Rosa, Physica C
**195**, 258 (1992). * [20] P. Schmitt, L. Schultz, and G.
Saemann-Ischenko, Physica C **168**, 475 (1990). * [21] G. Balestrino,
M. Marinelli, E. Milani, M. Montuori, A. Paoletti, and P. Paroli, J.
Appl. Phys. **72**, 191 (1992). * [22] J. N. Eckstein, I. Bozovic, M. E.
Klausmeier-Brown, G. F. Virshup, and K. S. Ralls, Mater. Res. Bull.
**27** (Aug. 1992), and references therein. * [23] C. J. van der Beek
and P. H. Kes, Phys. Rev. B **43**, 13 032 (1991). * [24] G. Blatter, J.
Rhyner, and V. M. Vinokur, Phys. Rev. B **43**, 7826 (1991). * [25] K.
H. Muller, M. Nikolo, and R. Driver, Phys. Rev. B **43**, 7976 (1991). *
[26] C. Gerber, D. Anselmetti, J. G. Bednorz, J. Mannhart, and D. G.
Schlom, Nature (London) **350**, 279 (1991). * [27] P. Wagner, F.
Hillmer, U. Frey, H. Adrian, T. Steinborn, L. Ranno, A. Elschner, I.
Heyvaert, and Y. Bruynseraede, Physica C **215**, 123 (1993). * [28] R.
Seemann, F. Hanisch, A. Sewing, R. L. Johnson, R. de Reus, and M.
Nielsen, Physica C **199**, 112 (1992). * [29] The _ab_ plane TEM images
were taken by C. Traeholt at the University of Delft. * [30] K. F.
Zhang, B. Kabius, K. Urban, P. Schmitt, L. Schultz, and G.
Saemann-Ischenko, Physica C **194**, 253 (1992). * [31] H. Watanabe, B.
Kabius, K. Urban, B. Roas, S. Klaumnzer, and G. Saemann-Ischenko,
Physica C **179**, 75 (1991). * [32] B. Mayer, L. Alff, T. Trauble, R.
Gross, P. Wagner, and H. Adrian, Appl. Phys. Lett. **63**, 996 (1993). *
[33] P. Wagner, U. Frey, F. Hillmer, A. Hadish, G. Jakob, H. Adrian, T.
Steinborn, L. Ranno, A. Elshner, I. Heyvaert, and Y. Bruynseraede, J.
Superconduct. 7, 217 (1994). * [34] The carrier density and mobility
data were determined for the undoped films, data for YBa₂Cu₃O₇ can be
found in an article by Speckmann _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **47**, 15 185
(1993). * [35] A compilation of structural data for high-T_(c) materials
is K. Yvon and M. Francios, Z. Phys. B **76**, 413 (1989). * [36] G.
Blatter, V. B. Geshkenbein, and A. I. Larkin, Phys. Rev. Lett. **68**,
875 (1992). * [37] D. E. Farrell, S. Bonham, J. Foster, Y. C. Chang, P.
Z. Jiang, K. G. Vandervoort, D. J. Lam, and V. G. Kogan, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **63**, 782 (1989). * [38] H. Raffy, S. Labdi, O. Laborde, and P.
Monceau, Phys. Rev. Lett. **66**, 2515 (1991). * [39] F. Steinmeyer, R.
Kleiner, P. Muller, and K. Winzer (unpublished). * [40] E. Silva, R.
Marcon, R. Fastampa, M. Giura, and S. Sarti, Physica C **214**, 175
(1993). * [41] T. T. M. Palstra, B. Batlogg, R. B. van Dover, L. F.
Schneemeyer, and J. V. Wasczak, Phys. Rev. B **41**, 6621 (1990). * [42]
E. Zeldov, N. M. Amer, G. Koren, and A. Gupta, Appl. Phys. Lett. **56**,
1700 (1990). * [43] H. Safar, P. L. Gammel, D. J. Bishop, D. B. Mitzi,
and A. Kajtulnik, Phys. Rev. Lett. **68**, 2672 (1992). * [44] Ph. Seng,
R. Gross, U. Baier, M. Rupp, D. Koelle, R. P. Huebener, P. Schmitt, G.
Saemann-Ischenko, and L. Schultz, Physica C **192**, 403 (1992). * [45]
T. T. M. Palstra, B. Batlogg, L. F. Schneemeyer, and J. V. Waszczak,
Phys. Rev. B **43**, 3756 (1991). * [46] S.-T. Chui and Hong-ru Ma, J.
Phys.: Condens. Matter **4**, L237 (1992). * [47] C. W. Hagen and R.
Griessen, Phys. Rev. Lett. **62**, 2857 (1989). * [48] J. T. Kucera, T.
P. Orlando, G. Virshup, and J. N. Eckstein, Phys. Rev. B **46**, 11 004
(1992). * [49] C. Tome Rosa, G. Jakob, M. Pauslon, P. Wagner, A.
Walkenhorst, M. Schmitt, and H. Adrian, Physica C **185-189**, 2175
(1991). * [50] V. Geshkenbein, A. Larkin, M. Feigel’man, and V. Vinokur,
Physica C **162-164**, 239 (1989). * [51] W. M. Vinokur, M. V.
Feigel’man, V. B. Geshkenbein, and A. I. Larkin, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**65**, 259 (1990). * [52] C. Stolzel, M. Huth, and H. Adrian, Physica C
**204**, 15 (1992). * [53] H. Yamasaki, K. Endo, S. Kosaka, M. Umeda, S.
Yoshida, and K. Kajimura, Phys. Rev. Lett. **70**, 3331 (1993). * [54]
G. Jakob, T. Hahn, C. Stolzel, C. Tome Rosa, and H. Adrian, Europhys.
Lett. **19**, 135 (1992). * [55] L. Antognazza, O. Brunner, L. Mieville,
J.-M. Triscone, and O. Fischer, Physica C **185-189**, 2081 (1991). *
[56] M. Schmitt, S. Freisem, A. Walkenhorst, G. Jakob, and H. Adrian
(unpublished). * [57] D. H. Kim, K. E. Gray, R. T. Kampwirth, and D. M.
McKay, Phys. Rev. B **42**, 6249 (1990). * [58] Y. Koike, T. Noji, Y.
Saito, N. Kobayashi, T. Nakanomyo, T. Goto, and T. Fukase, Sci. Rep.
Res. Inst. Tohoku Univ. Ser. A **37**, 151 (1992). * [59] B. vom Hedt,
K. Westerholt, and H. Bach (unpublished). * [60] P. Schmitt, Ph.D.
thesis, University Erlangen-Nurnberg, 1992 (unpublished). * [61] V. V.
Metlushko, G. Guntherodt, P. Wagner, H. Adrian, I. N. Goncharov, V. V.
Moshchalkov, and Y. Bruynseraede, Appl. Phys. Lett. **63**, 2821
(1993). * [62] G. Jakob, M. Schmitt, Th. Kluge, C. Tome Rosa, P. Wagner,
Th. Hahn, and H. Adrian, Phys. Rev. B **47**, 12 099 (1993). * [63] M.
Speckmann, Th. Kluge, C. Tome Rosa, Th. Becherer, and H. Adrian, Phys.
Rev. B **47**, 15 185 (1993). * [64] H. Yamasaki, K. Endo, S. Kosaka, M.
Umeda, S. Yoshida, and K. Kajimura (unpublished). * [65] E. J. Kramer,
J. Appl. Phys. **44**, 1360 (1973).
