# Anisotropic vortex pinning in the layered intermetallic superconductor
CaAlSi

Ajay Kumar Ghosh, Yu. Hiraoka, M. Tokunaga, and T. Tamegai

# Abstract

We have studied anisotropic magnetic properties of layered intermetallic
superconductor CaAlSi with moderate anisotropy. Near the upper critical
field there is a prominent peak effect for H∥c at low temperatures and
it becomes weaker for H∥ab. The estimated correlation length L_(c)
suggests the presence of three-dimensional collective pinning around the
peak effect. The critical current densities for H∥c and H∥ab have been
extracted and compared. Flux pinning mechanism in CaAlSi is anisotropic.
Collective core pinning is observed for H∥c whereas there is a signature
of deviation from it for H∥ab. The vortex phase diagram, including the
upper critical field, irreversibility field, and peak field, has been
studied. The thermodynamic critical field and Ginzburg-Landau parameter
have been estimated from the equilibrium magnetization. The nature of
scaling of the maximum pinning force densities with the thermodynamic
critical field has been discussed. The temperature dependence of London
penetration depth is consistent with single fully gapped state in
CaAlSi.

## I Introduction

The discovery of MgB₂ (Ref. [1]) has been followed by several studies of
the physical properties of hexagonal superconductors such as germanides
[2] and silicides. [3, 4] Among silicides with AlB₂ structure, so far
CaAlSi is reported to be with the second highest critical temperature.
[3] In this compound, several studies including the band-structure
calculation have been reported, which reveal that both the honeycomb
layer formed by Al and Si and the intercalated Ca layers control various
superconducting properties. [3, 5] However, not much work has been done
on the mixed state and other related physical properties.

The mixed state properties of MgB₂ and related superconductors have been
investigated by various groups recently to shed light on the several
physical properties and their correlations. [6] Magnetization as a
function of temperature and field has been studied to explore the
possibilities of its applications. The magnetic hysteresis in MgB₂ has
been studied by several groups. According to Larbalestier _et al._, the
linear behavior of the parameter H^(0.25)ΔM is reported to be valid
within a broad range of temperature. [6] Studies of the magnetic moments
of single crystalline MgB₂ lead to the extraction of various parameters
which are found to be consistent with the standard Ginzburg-Landau (GL)
and London models [7]. The hysteresis curves are analyzed on the basis
of the scaling properties of magnetization at various temperatures,
which reveal that irreversible magnetization of MgB₂ is dominated by the
bulk pinning up to T/T_(c) = 0.9. [8] The critical current density for a
pellet of MgB₂ is reported to be of the order of 10⁵ A/cm² at 4.2 K, [9,
10] which is high enough to apply it for technological applications. In
a thin film of MgB₂, J_(c) is measured from M-H hysteresis and I-V
curves and found to be 10⁵ A/cm² at a magnetic field of 50 kOe at 15 K.
[11] The analysis of J_(c) in MgB₂ from hysteresis shows that the
pinning via the spatial fluctuation in critical temperature is
important. [12]

Near the upper critical field, the temperature and magnetic-field
dependent peak effect is another interesting feature of conventional
superconductors such as Nb₃Ge, [13] 2H-NbSe₂, [14] and high-temperature
superconductors including MgB₂. [15] Also, the study of the peak effect
would be informative regarding the softening of vortices in these
layered superconductors.

We have studied the hysteresis of magnetization of single crystalline
CaAlSi for two field orientations with respect to the hexagonal
honeycomb layers (ab plane). The peak effect has been studied along two
directions. The anisotropic nature of the critical current density and
the pinning force densities along two field orientations are evaluated
and the possible mechanism of the pinning is discussed. The vortex phase
diagram including irreversibility fields is determined. The London
penetration depth is extracted from the equilibrium magnetization and
the thermodynamic critical field.

## II Experiment

The ingots of CaAlSi prepared by arc-melting of 1:1:1 stoichiometric
mixture of Ca, Al, and Si in Ar environment are used to prepare the
feeding and seed rods for the floating-zone method to grow single
crystals in Ar environment. [16] A single crystal with shiny surfaces
from the boule is cut into rectangular shape with dimensions
3.0×1.22×0.95 mm³. We confirmed the reproducibility of data using other
pieces of crystals. The magnetization M is measured by the
superconducting quantum interference device magnetometer (Quantum Design
MPMS) for the applied field in two directions with H∥c and H⊥c in the
temperature range between 2.0 K and 5.5 K.

## III Result and discussions

The critical temperature of single crystalline CaAlSi is determined both
from the magnetization at 5 Oe and zero-field resistivity measurements.
The onset critical temperature is 6.0 K with a transition width of 0.2 K
and the residual resistivity ratio of 2.7. [17]

The hysteresis curves at various temperatures are shown in Figs. 1(a)
and 1(b) for H∥c and H⊥c, respectively. We show the hysteresis curves of
CaAlSi at 2.0 K in the insets of Figs. 1(a) and 1(b) for H||c and H⊥c,
respectively, as representatives of several temperatures. The M-H curves
for H||c show a sudden strong increase in magnetization at a certain
field below the upper critical field as shown in Fig. 1(a). For H||c,
the peak effect is very prominent at 2 K [see the arrows in Fig. 1(a)].
The height of the peak is reduced with increasing temperature and the
peak in the magnetization becomes invisible above 4.5 K. The hysteresis
curves for H||ab shows weak signatures of peak effect only at low
temperature as shown in Fig. 2(b) (see the arrow). Therefore, the peak
effect is anisotropic in CaAlSi. It reflects the directional dependence
of the pinning strength in CaAlSi.

The critical current densities J_(c)(A/cm²) have been estimated using
the relation of extended Bean model:[18, 19]

$$J_{c} = \frac{40M_{rem}}{b(1 - b/3a)}.$$

Here, M_(rem)(emu/cm³) is the irreversible magnetization and a (cm) and
b (cm) are lateral dimensions of the sample (_a_ > _b_). The variation
of critical currents with field are shown in Figs. 2(a) and 2(b), for
H||c and H||ab, respectively. In case of H||ab we have not discriminated
between two different components of J_(c) flowing in the _ab_ plane and
along c axis. The critical current density in CaAlSi is smaller in order
of magnitude in comparison to that in MgB₂.[9] Clearly, J_(c)(_H_) for
H||c shows the peak effect close to the irreversibility field. As the
temperature decreases the peak becomes prominent and shifts towards
higher magnetic fields. It has been observed that MgB₂ follows small
bundle pinning, particularly close to T_(c), where J_(c) follows an
exponential law:

J_(c)(H) = J_(c)(0)exp [−(H/H₀)^(3/2)].

Here, H₀ is a constant and J_(c)(0) is the critical current density at
zero field.[12] In CaAlSi, the variation of J_(c) does not fit with the
above formula.

The peak effect has been observed in both low-T_(c) and high-T_(c)
superconductors with a wide range of the anisotropic parameter. The
occurrence of the peak effect in conventional superconductors was first
discussed by Pippard.[20] Larkin and Ovchinnikov (LO) have explained the
peak effect in critical current density near the upper critical field
based on the softening of the flux lattice.[27] The concentration of
pinning centers n and the correlation volume V_(c), which displaces
independently under the Lorentz force for a distance less than the
coherence length, are very effective parameters to control the nature of
the peak effect. According to LO formulations the peak effect disappears
for the condition $f > a^{2}(\overline{C}_{44}C_{66})$[12]. Here,
$\overline{C}_{44} = C_{44}(1 - H/H_{c2})\kappa^{-2}$ (κ: GL parameter),
f is the force of interaction of individual pinning centers with vortex
lattice, a is the vortex spacing, and C₆₆ and C₄₄ are shear and tilt
elastic moduli, respectively. Therefore, the variation in the strength
of the peak effect in CaAlSi is caused by the change in the ratio of
pinning strength and the elastic energy.

Figure 2: Critical current density as a function of the applied field
for (a) H||c and (b) H||ab. In both cases the temperatures are between
2.0 K and 5.5 K with an interval of 0.5 K.

Figure 1: Magnetization curves at various temperatures from 2.0 K to 5.5
K at an interval of 0.5 K for (a) H||c and (b) H||ab. Arrows show some
of the peak positions. Insets of (a) and (b) show the hysteresis curves
at 2.0 K as representatives for H||c and H||ab, respectively.

Very strong peak effect in Nb5Ge and anisotropic 2H-NbSe2 around
0.9_H__c_2 has been thoroughly studied.[13, 14] The typical critical
current density just below the peak effect in 2H-NbSe2 is 1-30 A/cm2 at
4.2 K and 10 kOe.[22] However, the peak effect in MgB2, with strong
pinning and current density, is also observed in the variation of real
and imaginary parts of the ac susceptibility as functions of both
magnetic field and temperature.[15] The peak effect in CaAlSi is more
pronounced in comparison to that in MgB2.[15] In addition, the
borocarbide superconductors with a typical critical current density of
10 A/cm2 at 3.0 K also shows peak effect.[23, 24] In CaAlSi, the
critical current density just below the peak effect is about 20-30 A/cm2
for H||c and 5-10 A/cm2 for H||ab at 4.0 K which is comparable to that
in 2H-NbSe2 and is much lower than of MgB2. The peak effect in 2H-NbSe2
is reported to be caused by the transition between the ordered and the
disordered state of vortices.[25] However, magnetic decorations in NbSe2
have shown that the enhancement of critical current density and the
topology of the vortex structure are uncorrelated.[26] Therefore, the
actual reason for the peak effect needs further studies.

The peak effect is controlled by several intrinsic parameters such as
the product of number of pinning centers and correlation volume, elastic
moduli, and the strength of pinning of individual centers. Following LO
model we have the pinning force density F_(p) = J_(B) = (_W_/_V_c_)[12].
Here, W is the volume density of pinning centers and f the elementary
pinning interaction. V_(c) is the correlation volume. Therefore, the
change in (_W_/_V_c_)[12] is manifested in F_(p) around the peak effect
region.[21] In CaAlSi, the lower critical current density and presence
of the peak effect indicate that the strength of the individual pinning
center is optimized with respect to the elastic energy which generates
favorable condition for the peak effect. We have estimated the
collective pinning length L_(c) using L_(c)   _d_(_J_0 /_J__c_)[12],
where J0 and J_(c) are the depairing critical current and critical
current density, respectively, and x is the coherence length.[27] In the
temperature and field region around peak effect, for example, at 4.2 K
and 3 kOe, J0 /_J__c_   106 and we estimate that L_(c) is about 4 +- 1
_m_m. The typical value of L_(c) for NbSe2 in the peak effect region is
 10 _m_m.[28] A dimensional crossover is possible from two-dimensional
to three-dimensional collective pinning when L_(c) becomes larger than
the half of the sample thickness.[13] Around the peak effect in CaAlSi,
L_(c) is smaller than the half of the thickness ( 900 _m_m) of the
sample. Therefore, three dimensional LO collective pinning describes the
peak effect in CaAlSi.

In both NbSe2 and YNi2B2C, the peak effect is observed for both H||c and
H||ab.[14, 24] Also, in MgB2 the peak effect is reported for both
directions.[15, 29] In anisotropic superconductors, shear moduli are
different for different directions.[30] Accordingly, the strength of
pinning has variation with direction, which is the major cause of the
change in the strength of the peak effect for two directions. The
angular dependence of the peak effect may be important in this compound,
and it will be a future study.

Figure 3 shows the phase diagram of CaAlSi. The irreversibility field
H_(r), determined with the criterion of J_(c) = 1 A/cm2 for both H||c
and H||ab is also shown. The irreversibility fields show linear
variation with temperature. The vortex phase diagram in Fig. 3 includes
the upper critical fields _H__c_2 for both H||c and H||ab obtained from
the temperature dependence of magnetization at various fields.[16] The
position of the peak effect, H_(p), is also plotted in Fig. 3. H_(p)
closely follows the temperature dependence of _H__c_2 and it supports
the softening of vortex lattice as its origin.

We have extracted the pinning force density F_(p) = J_(B) and plotted in
Figs. 4(a) and 4(b) as a function of applied field. In the inset of
Figs. 4(a) and 4(b), _F__p_/_F__p_ (max) is plotted with the reduced
magnetic field _H_/_H__ir_. Though the scaling is observed at lower
range of temperature, the global feature reveals that the scaling of
pinning force density for H||c is not present at higher temperature such
as 5.5 K in CaAlSi. It suggests that the pinning mechanism is different
at higher temperatures close to the transition temperature. However, the
pinning scenario up to T = 4.5 K remains almost similar, including the
peak effect.

It is noticeable that the variation of F_(p) for H||ab is entirely
different from that for H||c. In the latter case, F_(p) gradually
decreases with the magnetic field and shows no broad peak as observed
for H||c [see Fig. 4(b)]. The pinning mechanism may be unaltered over a
wide range of temperature from 2 K to 4.0 K. However, the scaling is not
observed again at high temperatures above 4.5 K. Therefore, the pinning
mechanism is more sensitive to temperature in the field orientation of
H||ab. It clearly manifests the anisotropic pinning strength of
individual centers with magnetic field. It will be interesting to
mention that the pinning force density in nonmagnetic borocarbide is
studied for H||c and H||ab.[24] The magnitude and the nature of
variation of F_(p)(H) is found to be quite different for two directions.
The possibility of other mechanisms besides nonlocal effects, which is
gener

Figure 3: Vortex phase diagram of CaAlSi. Solid circles and open circles
represent _H__c_2 for H||ab and H||c, respectively [obtained from
earlier _M_(_T_) measurements]. Solid squares and open squares represent
H_(r) for H||ab and H||c, respectively, obtained from J_(c)(_H_) of the
present study. Open and solid triangles correspond to the peak positions
for H||c and H||ab, respectively, at several temperatures. The solid
lines through the data points are guide to eyes. Thermodynamical
critical fields H_(c) at various temperatures for H||c and H||ab are
shown in the inset.

ally observed for clean and high-κ superconductors, is attributed to the
origin of the complexity of angular dependence of pinning force
density.[24]

In the variation of $F_{p}/F_{p}({\rm max})$ with H/H_(irr) for H∥c, the
position of the peak indicates the nature of pinning. Peak positions at
0.4 to 0.5 demonstrate that the pinning centers are superconducting in
nature with reduced order parameter. The $F_{p}/F_{p}({\rm max})$ versus
H/H_(irr) for H||c in CaAlSi shows a peak around H/H_(irr)∼0.3 [see
inset of Fig. 4(a)] for H||c. According to the previous studies on the
low-T_(c) superconductors, it will be at 0.33, which represents that the
core pinning is responsible for such variation of the critical current
density for H||c.[31, 32] With the change in the field orientation, the
peak positions is shifted towards 0.1, indicating deviation from the
collective core pinning.

We have evaluated the equilibrium magnetization using M_(eq)=
(M₊ + M⁻)/2 for all temperatures where M₊ and M⁻ are magnetizations for
increasing and decreasing field, respectively. Following the procedure
shown by Thompson _et al._ for borocarbide superconductors[33] we have
evaluated the reversible magnetizations. The reversible magnetization as
a function of field for H||c and H||ab at various temperatures is shown
in Figs. 5(a) and 5(b), respectively. Integrating the area under these
curves we extract the thermodynamic critical field H_(c) and plot it in
the inset of Fig. 3. We have assumed that the linear M_(eq)-ln(H)
relation can be extrapolated to lower-field range, where the large
irreversibility does not allow an accurate estimation of M_(eq). H_(c)
values are almost the same for two directions, giving evidence for bulk
nature of superconductivity which strongly supports our previous finding
of cusplike angular dependence of H_(c2) near H||ab.[16] Using
H_(c)(T)=H_(c)(0)(1 − t²), H_(c)(0) is evaluated as 0.45 kOe. With this
value and H_(c2)(0)=$\sqrt{2}\kappa H_{c}(0)$, we have evaluated
in-plane London penetration depth l_(ab)(0) = 3140 A. Together with the
coherence length of ξ_(ab)(0) = 196 A (Ref. [16]) the GL parameter κ is
evaluated as 20 for H||c.

The London penetration depth for H||c, λ_(ab), can be independently
obtained by using the London formula

$$-4\ \pi M=\frac{\alpha\Phi_{0}}{8\ \pi\lambda^{2}}\ln\biggl{[}\frac{\beta H_{c2}}{H}\biggr{]}.$$
(3)

Here, Φ₀ is the flux quantum, and α and β are constants of the order of
unity. In case of the core corrections in high-κ superconductor, α and β
may differ from unity.[34, 35] Using the slope of M_(eq) versus ln H in
the region of H_(c1)≪H_(c2), and taking α=β= 1, we have extracted l_(ab)
as shown in Fig. 6. The variation of λ_(ab)(T) is comparable to BCS
model as shown in Fig. 6, whereas two-fluid model is not. The magnitude
of the London penetration depth l_(ab)(0)= 3100 A is consistent with
that extracted using the thermodynamic critical field. This fact
suggests that CaAlSi is a typical BCS superconductor with single fully
opened gap.

Figure 4: Variations of pinning force density F_(p) with the magnetic
field at various temperatures for (a) H||c and (b) H||ab. Insets show
the variation of $F_{p}/F_{p}({\rm max})$ with the reduced field
H/H_(irr). The scaling relation for each direction is found at lower
temperatures.

Figure 5: Equilibrium magnetization with the magnetic fields for (a)
H||c and (b) H||ab at various temperatures. (a)–(h) represent 2.0–5.5 K
at an interval of 0.5 K in each panel.

Scaling of pinning force density with the thermodynamical critical field
provide the insight into the energy scale of the involved vortices.[36]
We have plotted the maximum F_(p) for two directions with H_(c) in the
inset of Fig. 6. F_(p)(max ) is found to be scaled as F_(p) ∝H_(c)^(η),
where η = 2 and 1.6 for H||c and H||ab, respectively. It is interesting
to mention that the exponent ( η) for LuNi₂B₂C is 2 for H||ab.[36] Since
the line energy of vortex is proportional to H_(c)², it is reasonable to
say that the lower value of η for H||ab is correlated with the deviation
from the collective core pinning.

Another interesting feature observed from the equilibrium magnetization
is the nonlinear variation of M_(eq) with ln(H). The variation of the
equilibrium magnetization with logarithmic magnetic field reveals that
at lower temperatures the nonlinearity is prominent in both cases (see
Fig. 5). As the temperature is increased to 5.5 K the variation of
M_(eq) becomes linear for both field orientations. According to Kogan’s
formulation, high κ and clean materials show nonlinearity for the
nonlocal corrections.[37] However, nonlinearity in M_(eq)-ln(H) curves
in clean superconductor is in such a way that the slope dM_(eq)/dln (H)
decreases at higher fields. By contrast, the slope increases at higher
fields in CaAlSi. This may correspond to the situation in
Lu(Ni_(0.91)Co_(0.09))₂B₂C, where the crossover from the London to the
linear regime shows up.[38]

## IV Conclusions

We have studied the magnetic hysteresis of single crystalline CaAlSi.
The hysteresis of magnetization shows pronounced peak effect for H||c
and weak peak effect for H||ab. The observed peak effect is sensitive to
the temperature. The collective correlation length for H||c is about
4±1μm, indicating the three-dimensional collective pinning in the peak
effect region of CaAlSi. The variation of critical current densities
with field is anisotropic in nature. The scaling properties are observed
for H||c, with an evidence of the collective core pinning. A different
nature of scaling indicating rapid decrease in J_(c) with H is found for
H||ab. The maximum pinning force densities for both directions scale
with the thermodynamic critical field with exponent 2 and 1.6 for H||c
and H||ab, respectively. The in-plane London penetration depth obtained
from equilibrium magnetization follows BCS-type temperature dependence,
with λ(0) = 3100 A, suggesting the presence of single fully opened gap.

## Acknowledgments

A.K.G. would like to acknowledge Japan Society for the Promotion of
Sciences (JSPS) for support. This work was supported by a Grant-in-Aid
for Scientific Research from the Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports,
Science and Technology.

## References

* [1] J. Nagamatsu, N. Nakagawa, T. Muranaka, Y. Zenitani, and J.
Akimitsu, Nature (London) **410**, 63 (2001). * [2] S. Majumdar and E.V.
Sampathkumaran, Phys. Rev. B **63**, 172407 (2001). * [3] M. Imai, K.
Nishida, T. Kimura, and H. Abe, Appl. Phys. Lett. **80**, 1019 (2002);
M. Imai, E. Abe, J. Ye, K. Nishida, T. Kimura, K. Honma, H. Abe, and H.
Kitazawa, Phys. Rev. Lett. **87**, 077003 (2001). * [4] T. Tamegai, A.K.
Ghosh, Y. Hiraoka, and M. Tokunaga, Physica C (to be published); R.L.
Meng, B. Lorenz, Y.S. Wang, J. Cmaidalka, Y.Y. Sun, Y.Y. Xue, J.K. Meen,
and C.W. Chu, Physica C **382**, 113 (2002). * [5] I.R. Shein, V.V.
Ivanovskaya, N.I. Medvedeva, and A.L. Ivanovskii, Pis’ma Zh. Eksp. Teor.
Fiz. **76**, 223 (2002) [JETP Lett. **76**, 189 (2002)]. * [6] D.C.
Larbalestier, M.O. Rikel, L.D. Cooley, A.A. Polyanskii, J.Y. Jiang, S.
Patnaik, X.Y. Cai, D.M. Feldmann, A. Gurevich, A.A. Squitieri, M.T.
Naus, C.B. Eom, E.E. Hellstrom, R.J. Cava, K.A. Regan, N. Rogado, M.A.
Hayward, T. He, J.S. Slusky, P. Khalifah, K. Inumaru, and M. Haas,
Nature (London) **410**, 186 (2001). * [7] M. Zehetmayer, M. Eisterer,
J. Jun, S.M. Kazakov, J. Karpinski, A. Wisniewski, and H.W. Weber, Phys.
Rev. B **66**, 052505 (2002). * [8] M.S. Kim, C.U. Jung, M.S. Park, S.Y.
Lee, K.H.P. Kim, W.N. Kang, and S.I. Lee, Phys. Rev. B **64**, 012511
(2001). * [9] D.K. Finnemore, J.E. Ostenson, S.L. Bud ko, G. Lapertot,
and P.C. Canfield, Phys. Rev. Lett. **86**, 2420 (2001). * [10] P.C.
Canfield, S.L. Bud ko, and D.K. Finnemore, Physica C **385**, 1
(2002). * [11] H.J. Kim, W.N. Kang, E.M. Choi, M.S. Kim, K.H.P. Kim, and
S.I. Lee, Phys. Rev. Lett. **87**, 87002 (2001). * [12] M.J. Qin, X.L.
Wang, H.K. Liu, and S.X. Dou, Phys. Rev. B **65**, 132508 (2002). * [13]
R. Wordenweber, P.H. Kes, and C.C. Tsuei, Phys. Rev. B **33**, 3172
(1986).

Figure 6: London penetration depth λ_(ab) of CaAlSi as a function of
temperature. The solid line and dotted lines represent BCS and
Gorter-Casimir two-fluid models, respectively. Inset shows the variation
of F_(p)(max ) with H_(c) for H||c and H||ab.

* [14] S. Bhattacharya and M.J. Higgins, Phys. Rev. Lett. **70**, 2617
(1993); Phys. Rev. B **49**, 10 005 (1994). * [15] M. Pissas, S. Lee, A.
Yamamoto, and S. Tajima, Phys. Rev. Lett. **89**, 097002 (2002). * [16]
A.K. Ghosh, M. Tokunaga, and T. Tamegai, Phys. Rev. B **68**, 054507
(2003). * [17] A.K. Ghosh, Y. Hiraoka, M. Tokunaga, and T. Tamegai,
Physica C **392-396**, 29 (2003). * [18] C.P. Bean, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**8**, 225 (1962). * [19] E.M. Gyorgy, R.B. Vandover, K.A. Jackson, L.F.
Schneemeyer, and J.V. Waszczak, Appl. Phys. Lett. **55**, 283 (1989). *
[20] A.B. Pippard, Philos. Mag. **19**, 217 (1967). * [21] A.I. Larkin
and Yu.N. Ovchinnikov, J. Low Temp. Phys. **27**, 280 (1978); **34**,
409 (1979). * [22] M.J. Higgins and S. Bhattacharya, Physica C **257**,
232 (1996). * [23] K.J. Song, J.R. Thompson, M. Yethiraj, D.K. Christen,
C.V. Tomy, and D.McK. Paul, Phys. Rev. B **59**, 6620 (1999). * [24]
A.V. Silhanek, J.R. Thompson, L. Civale, D.McK. Paul, and C.V. Tomy,
Phys. Rev. B **64**, 012512 (2001). * [25] Y. Paltiel, E. Zeldov, Y.N.
Myssoedrov, H. Shtrikman, S. Bhattacharya, M.J. Higgins, Z.L. Xiao, E.Y.
Andrei, P.L. Gammel, and D.J. Bishop, Nature (London) **403**, 398
(2000). * [26] Y. Fasano, M. Menghini, F. de la Cruz, Y. Paltiel, Y.
Myasoedov, E. Zeldov, M.J. Higgins, and S. Bhattacharya, Phys. Rev. B
**66**, 020512 (2002). * [27] G. Blatter, M.V. Feigelman, V.B.
Geshkenbein, A.I. Larkin, and V.M. Vinokur, Rev. Mod. Phys. **66**, 1125
(1994). * [28] K. Ghosh, S. Ramakrishnan, A.K. Grover, G.I. Menon, G.
Chandra, T.V.C. Rao, G. Ravikumar, P.K. Mishra, V.C. Sahni, C.V. Tomy,
G. Balakrishnan, D.Mck. Paul, and S. Bhattacharya, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**76**, 4600 (1996). * [29] L. Lyard, P. Samuely, P. Szabo, T. Klein, C.
Marcenat, L. Paulius, K.H.P. Kim, C.U. Jung, H.-S. Lee, B. Kang, S.
Choi, S.-I. Lee, J. Marcus, S. Blanchard, A.G.M. Jansen, U. Welp, G.
Karapetrov, and W.K. Kwok, Phys. Rev. B **66**, 180502 (2002). * [30]
V.G. Kogan and L.J. Campbell, Phys. Rev. Lett. **62**, 1552 (1989). *
[31] E.J. Kramer, J. Appl. Phys. **44**, 1360 (1973). * [32] D.
Dew-Hughes, Philos. Mag. **30**, 293 (1974). * [33] J.R. Thompson, A.V.
Silhanek, L. Civale, K.J. Song, C.V. Tomy, and D.McK. Paul, Phys. Rev. B
**64**, 024510 (2001). * [34] Z. Hao and J.R. Clem, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**67**, 2371 (1991). * [35] A.E. Koshelev, Phys. Rev. B **50**, 506
(1994). * [36] K.A. Ziq, P.C. Canfield, J.E. Ostenson, and D.K.
Finnemore, Phys. Rev. B **60**, 3603 (1999). * [37] V.G. Kogan, A.
Gurevich, J.H. Cho, D.C. Johnston, M. Xu, J.R. Thompson, and A.
Martynovich, Phys. Rev. B **54**, 12 386 (1996). * [38] V.G. Kogan, S.L.
Budko, I.R. Fisher, and P.C. Canfield, Phys. Rev. B **62**, 9077 (2000).
