Contrasting oxygen and copper isotope effects in YBa₂Cu₄O₈
superconducting and normal states

G. V. M. Williams

2. Physikalisches Institut, Universitat Stuttgart, Pfaffenwaldring 57,
D-70569 Stuttgart, Germany

and The New Zealand Institute for Industrial Research, P.O. Box 31310,
Lower Hutt, New Zealand

D. J. Pringle

School of Chemical and Physical Sciences, Victoria University, P.O. Box
31310, Wellington, New Zealand

J. L. Tallon

The New Zealand Institute for Industrial Research, P.O. Box 31310, Lower
Hutt, New Zealand

###### Abstract

We have used Raman, susceptibility, and ⁸⁹Y NMR measurements on the
YBa₂Cu₄O₈ superconductor synthesized using pure ⁶³Cu or ⁶³Cu to
investigate the oxygen and copper isotope effects in T_(c) and the
normal-state pseudogap. We find no copper or oxygen isotope effects in
the normal-state ⁸⁹Y Knight shift for temperatures in excess of 150 K.
There is a _positive_ copper isotope effect in T_(c) and, for
temperatures less than 150 K, a _negative_ copper isotope effect in the
normal-state ⁸⁹Y Knight shift. This differs from the oxygen isotope
effect which is _positive_ for both T_(c) and the ⁸⁹Y Knight shift below
150 K. These results indicate that the normal-state pseudogap may not
originate from precursor superconducting pairing.

Isotope effect measurements were of crucial importance in establishing
the phonon-induced BCS model of superconductivity.[1] In the
weak-coupling BCS model the isotope effect derives from the
superconducting transition temperature T_(c) being proportional to the
Debye temperature. Since the Debye temperature is proportional to
M^(1/2), where M is the atomic mass, the isotope-effect coefficient, α =
−ln T_(c)/dln M = 0.5. The later inclusion of Coulomb repulsion in the
pairing interaction resulted in predicted α values of less than 0.5 and
enabled a reasonably good fit to the data where low values of α
correspond to low T_(c) values.[2] The situation is more complex in the
high-temperature superconducting cuprates (HTSC’s), where α is small
near optimal doping and maximum T_(c) (Ref. [3]) and large for low hole
concentrations and small T_(c) values.[3] A number of diverse models
have been developed to account for the oxygen isotope effect in HTSC.
However, there is no consensus as to which model is correct.

Unlike the oxygen isotope effect data, contradictory results exist in
the case of the copper isotope effect. For example $\alpha_{\rm Cu}$ has
been reported to be −0.17 in YBa₂Cu₃O_(6.41) with T_(c) = 49.5
K,[4]+0.38 in YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) with T_(c) = 48 K,[5] and +0.22 in
Y_(0.6)Pr_(0.8)Ba₂Cu₃O₇ with T_(c) = 45 K.[6] Negative Cu isotope effect
exponents were found in YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) for all δ values[4] while
positive values were found in YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) for T_(c) < 90 K and for
various substituted forms of YBa₂Cu₄O₈.[6] Further experimental research
is clearly required to resolve these inconsistencies.

Isotope effect measurements in the normal state are also of interest in
relation to the normal-state pseudogap above T_(c) which has a profound
effect on most physical properties and is also widely regarded as being
linked to the pairing mechanism. In particular, the pseudogap causes the
spin susceptibility to decrease rapidly with decreasing temperature as
evidenced by a reduction in the Knight shift or the bulk susceptibility.
There is considerable disagreement in the literature concerning the
origin and nature of the normal-state pseudogap.[7] While many recent
papers have pointed to the possible link between the pseudogap and
incoherent pairing correlations existing well above T_(c),[8] we have
argued strongly against this view.[9]

Our previous high-resolution ⁸⁹Y nuclear-magnetic-resonance (NMR)
measurements on ¹⁶O and ¹⁸O exchanged YBa₂Cu₄O₈ found no isotope effect
in the normal-state Knight shift data for temperatures above 150 K.[9]
This would appear to be inconsistent with previous precursor pairing
models in which the pairing and pseudogap correlations are essentially
identical. However, a recent ⁶³Cu nuclear quadrupole resonance (NQR)
study on ¹⁶O and ¹⁸O exchanged YBa₂Cu₄O₈ indicated an isotope effect in
1/⁶³T₁T for temperatures up to 350 K which is comparable to that
observed in T_(c).[10] This led the authors to conclude a common origin
between the superconducting gap and the "spin gap." Noting our own null
effect in the Knight shift the authors further concluded a distinction
between the response at q = $\mathbf{Q}_{\rm AF}$ = (π, π) (from the
spin-lattice relaxation rate, ⁶³T₁) and the q = (0,0) response (from the
⁸⁹Y Knight shift). We conveniently restate their conclusion as a
distinction between the spin gap and the pseudogap (a gap in the
quasiparticle spectrum).

In this paper we question these conclusions. We report Raman,
susceptibility, and ⁸⁹Y NMR measurements of both the oxygen and copper
isotope effects in YBa₂Cu₄O₈. This compound is ideal for such studies
because it is underdoped and highly stoichiometric.

YBa₂Cu₄O₈ ceramic samples were prepared from isotopically pure ⁶⁵Cu or
⁶³Cu metal. CuO powder from each isotope was obtained by dissolving the
Cu metal in nitric acid followed by decomposing the nitrate at 700 degC
in air. Phase pure YBa₂Cu₄O₈ polycrystalline samples were synthesized by
standard solid-state reaction at 945 degC and 60 bars oxygen pressure.
X-ray diffraction confirmed that the samples were single phase. The
oxygen isotope exchange technique is described elsewhere [9].

Zero-field-cooled temperature-dependent susceptibility data were
obtained using a vibrating sample magnetometer with an applied field of
5×10⁻⁴T. Raman measurements were made at room temperature using a
backscattering geometry with the λ=514.5 nm of an argon ion laser.

The ⁸⁹Y NMR data were obtained for temperatures ranging from 130 to 350
K using a Doty Super-VT Penguin probe in a Varian Unity 500 spectrometer
with a 11.74T superconducting magnet. Magic angle spinning (MAS) at
frequencies greater than 2.5 kHz was used to remove dipole-dipole
coupling and hence significantly reduce the width of the NMR resonance.
The exceptionally narrow linewidth (∼100 Hz) and accurate temperature
control (<0.2 K) allows very precise determination of the shifts which
were referenced to 1 molar aqueous solution of YCl₃. Moreover, both the
selected temperature and the selected isotope for any one measurement
were chosen more or less at random, thus eliminating any systematic
effect due to possible heating from sample spinning. The data were
obtained using the single 90^(∘) pulse technique.

We consider first the isotope effects in T_(c). Figure 1 shows the
susceptibility data from repeated measurements on YBa₂⁶³Cu₄O₈ (solid
lines) and YBa₂⁶⁵Cu₄O₈ (dashed lines) samples where it can be seen that
T_(c) is smaller by ΔT_(c)=−(0.25±0.06) K in the sample with the larger
Cu atomic weight. Taking T_(c)= 81.6 K we find
$\alpha_{\rm Cu}$=0.098±0.024, a value comparable to that observed by
Morris _et al._[6] in Y_(1 − x)Pr_(x)Ba₂Cu₄O₈ and
Y_(1 − x)Pr_(x)Ba₂Cu₄O₇ with similar T_(c) values and approximately a
factor of two less than that observed by Zhao _et al._[5] in
YBa₂Cu₄O_(7 − δ) with T_(c)^(∼)72 K. Both the magnitude and sign are
different from those observed by Franck _et al._[4] in YBa₂Cu₄O_(7 − δ)
with similar T_(c) values. The origin of this difference is not clear
but it could arise in the oxygenation processes for YBa₂Cu₄O_(7 − δ)
from differences in the diffusion coefficient if the samples are not at
equilibrium. Because of the rigid stoichiometry, we believe the
measurements on the YBa₂Cu₄O₈ system to be more reliable. Raman
measurements, shown in the inset to Fig. 1, reveal that each of our
samples contain either 100

Turning now to the pseudogap, we show in Fig. 2 that an oxygen isotope
effect in the normal-state ⁸⁹Y NMR spectra is only observed at low
temperatures. These results are similar to those observed in YBa₂Cu₄O₈
with naturally occurring Cu (69.09

To understand and model this data we must first consider

Figure 1: Plot of the magnetization against temperature for YBa₂⁶³Cu₄O₈
(solid curves) and for YBa₂⁶⁶Cu₄O₈ (dashed curves). Inset: plot of the
Cu2 mode in the Raman spectra for YBa₂⁶³Cu₄O₈ (solid curve) and
YBa₂⁶⁵Cu₄O₈ (dashed curve) samples.

Figure 2: Plot of the ⁸⁹Y NMR spectra at the temperatures indicated for
¹⁶O exchanged YBa₂⁶³Cu₄O₈ (solid curves) and ¹⁸O exchanged YBa₂⁶⁵Cu₄O₈
(dashed curves).

the origin of the ⁸⁹Y NMR shift. Using the Mila-Rice Hamiltonian[12] it
was possible to show that the NMR shift can be expressed as a linear
function of the static spin susceptibility.[13] Within this model, there
is hyperfine coupling from Cu spins on the eight nearest-neighbor Cu
sites to the ⁸⁹Y nucleus.

We show in Fig. 4(b) that −⁸⁹K (solid curve) decreases with decreasing
temperature. This temperature dependence, in particular the suppression
of χ_(s) on cooling, has previously been attributed to the normal-state
pseudogap.[14] Modeling of the normal-state pseudogap is complicated by
recent observations of anisotropic filling in of the normal-state
pseudogap with increasing temperature.[15] To be able to model the
isotope effect in the normal state, we use a scaling curve that fits the
NMR data from a number of HTSC over a wide range of hole
concentrations.[14] To justify a functional form for the scaling curve
we start with the Pauli spin susceptibility,
χ_(s) = μ_(B)²J N(E)(− ∂f/∂E) dE, where N(E) is the density of states
(DOS) and f(E) is the Fermi function, and assume a triangular density of
states that fills in with increasing temperature. This leads to

⁸⁹K = N(E_(F))[1 − z × tanh⁶(1/z)ln (cosh (1/z))] + ⁸⁹σ,
(1)

where N(E_(F)) is the DOS at the Fermi level in the absence of the
pseudogap, z = 2 k_(B)T/E_(g), ⁸⁹σ is the temperature-independent ⁸⁹Y
chemical shift, and E_(g) is the pseudogap energy defined as the gap
edge. This scaling curve and the associated density of states contain
the essential experimental observations of a linear DOS, a
linear-in-temperature NMR shift at low temperatures and a
temperature-independent NMR shift and S/T at high temperatures,[16]
where S is the electronic entropy. We show in Fig. 4(b) by the dashed
curve that this scaling curve does indeed fit the data with
E_(g)/k_(B)=418 K and n=4.55. We emphasize that, without introducing a
specific model, scaling of the ⁸⁹Y NMR data above T_(c) shows that it is
only the hole-concentration dependence of the pseudogap energy and not
its absolute magnitude that can be determined. This is obvious because
one curve must be chosen to scale the other curves against. Thus using a
different form for the density of states will result in a different
absolute magnitude. However, it is ΔE_(g)/E_(g) that is important for
studying the isotope effect in the normal-state pseudogap and not the
absolute magnitude.

If an isotope effect existed in the normal-state pseudogap we could
define a coefficient α_(E_(g)) = − dln (E_(g))/dln M and hence
ΔE_(g)/E_(g) = − α_(E) ΔM/M. Using the experimental observation that
⁸⁹K_(s)=⁸⁹K_(s)(z), where z = 2 k_(B)T/E_(g), it can easily be shown
that an isotope effect in E_(g) will lead to a change in the ⁸⁹Y NMR
Knight shift of
$\Delta^{89}K_{s}=(-\,z\partial K_{s}/\,\,\,\,\,\,\,\,\,\,\,\,\,\,\,\,\,\,\,\,\, \,\,\,\,  _et al._[17] and Corey _et al._[18] We now show in Fig. 4(b) that this correlation is even better when we plot the high-precision \(1/^{63}T_{1}$
data of Raffa _et al._[10] and our high-precision ⁸⁹Y NMR data.

We note that 1/⁶³T₁ probes the imaginary part of the dynamic spin
susceptibility about ${\bf q}$=${\bf Q}_{\rm AF}$=(π, π) while the NMR
shift probes the real part of the dynamical spin susceptibility at
${\bf q}$=(0, 0). The almost exact correspondence between 1/⁶³T₁ and
⁸⁹K_(s) again shows that the spin response is the same at
${\bf q}$=(0, 0) and ${\bf q}$=(π, π) and there is no distinct lower
crossover temperature at which a gap opens up at ${\bf q}$ =(π, π) as is
suggested by the peak in 1/⁶³T₁T. We previously showed that using the
Mila-Rice Hamiltonian and the phenomenological dynamical spin
susceptibility of Millis, Monien, and Pines (MMP) can lead to a direct
correspondence between 1/⁶³T₁ and K_(s) provided that the dynamical spin
susceptibility, $\chi_{s}({\bf q},\omega)$, is proportional to the
static spin susceptibility, χ_(s)(T), as originally proposed by MMP.[13]
Using the Mila Rice form factors in the limit of ξ²≫1 leads to
1/⁶³T₁T=a₁χ_(s)(T)/ω_(sf)(T), where a₁ is a constant, ξ is the
antiferromagnetic correlation length, and ω_(sf) is the paramagnon
frequency. Taking ω_(sf) as being proportional to temperature results in
a 1/⁶³T₁ being directly proportional to χ_(s) as is observed. The
precise correspondence between 1/⁶³T₁ and ⁸⁹K_(s) shown in Fig. 4(b)
would lead one to expect the same isotope effect in each of these
parameters.

Secondly, Ohno and Asayama[19] have recently analyzed the data of Raffa
_et al._ and shown that 1/⁶³T₁ plotted against T/T_(c) for the ¹⁸O and
¹⁶O samples falls on the same curve even if the entire temperature
range. This has been interpreted in terms of an isotope effect in the
characteristic energy of the antiferromagnetic spin fluctuations without
any isotope effect in a "spin gap." This interpretation follows from the
expansion of 1/⁶³T₁T, leading to 1/⁶³T₁T =a₁χ_(s)(T)/ω_(sf)(T/T_(c)),
where the isotope effect is in ω_(sf) rather than χ_(s)(T). We may
similarly understand why the copper $T_{2\rm G}$ at 100 K does not show
an oxygen isotope effect.[10] Using the Mila-Rice Hamiltonian and
$\chi_{s}({\bf q},\omega)$, where the copper $T_{2\rm G}$ predominantly
samples the real part of the dynamic spin susceptibility about
${\bf q}$=(π, π), we find in the limit of
ξ²≫1,$1/T_{2\rm G}$=a₂ξ(T)χ_(s)(T), where a₂ is a constant. Therefore,
the absence of an isotope effect in χ_(s)(T) automatically leads to the
absence of an isotope effect in $T_{2\rm G}$.

In conclusion, we have shown that there is no oxygen or copper isotope
effect in the normal state of the underdoped YBa₂Cu₄O₈ superconductor
for temperatures above 150 K. Below 150 K small oxygen and copper
isotope effects appear but they are of opposite sign while the oxygen
and copper isotope effects in T_(c) are both positive. This further
emphasizes that the pseudogap is unlikely to be related to
superconducting pairing correlations.

We gratefully acknowledge C. Bernhard and M. Cardona for supplying the
copper isotopes and for helpful discussions. We acknowledge funding from
the New Zealand FRST, The Royal Society of New Zealand, and the
Alexander von Humboldt Foundation.

## References

* [1] J. Bardeen, Phys. Rev. **79**, 167 (1950). * [2] G. Gladstone, M.
A. Jensen, and J. R. Schrieffer, in _Superconductivity_, edited by R. D.
Parks (Marcel Dekker Inc., New York, 1969), p. 767. * [3] J. R. Franck,
in _Physical Properties of High Temperature Superconductors IV_, edited
by D. M. Ginsberg (World Scientific, Singapore, 1994), p. 189. * [4] J.
P. Franck and D. D. Lawie, J. Supercond. **8**, 591 (1995). * [5] G.
Zhao, V. Kirtikar, K. K. Singh, A. P. B. Sinha, D. E. Morris, and A. V.
Inyushkin, Phys. Rev. B **54**, 14 956 (1996). * [6] D. E. Morris, A. P.
B. Sinha, V. Kirtikar, and A. V. Inyushkin, Physica C **298**, 203
(1998). * [7] T. Timusk and B. Statt, Rep. Prog. Phys. **62**, 61
(1999). * [8] V. J. Emery and S. A. Kivelson, Nature (London) **374**,
434 (1993). * [9] G. V. M. Williams, J. L. Tallon, J. W. Quilty, H. J.
Trodahl, and N. E. Flower, Phys. Rev. Lett. **80**, 377 (1998). * [10]
F. Raffa, T. Ohno, M. Mali, D. Brinkmann, K. Conder, and M. Eremin,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **81**, 5912 (1998). * [11] R. Henn, T. Strach, E.
Schonher, and M. Cardona, Phys. Rev. B **55**, 3285 (1997). * [12] F.
Mila and T. M. Rice, Physica C **157**, 561 (1989). * [13] A. J. Millis,
H. Monien, and D. Pines, Phys. Rev. B **42**, 167 (1990). * [14] G. V.
M. Williams, J. L. Tallon, and J. W. Loram, Phys. Rev. B **58**, 15 053
(1998). * [15] M. R. Norman, H. Ding, M. Randeria, J. C. Campuzano, T.
Yokoya, T. Takeuchi, T. Takahashi, T. Mochiku, K. Kadowaki, P.
Guptasarma, and D. G. Hinks, Nature (London) **392**, 157 (1998). * [16]
J. L. Tallon, J. W. Loram, and G. V. M. Williams, J. Phys. Chem. Solids
**59**, 2091 (1998). * [17] N. J. Curro, T. Imai, C. P. Slichter, and B.
Dabrowski, Phys. Rev. B **56**, 877 (1997). * [18] R. L. Corey _et al._,
Phys. Rev. B **53**, 5907 (1996). * [19] T. Ohno and K. Asayama, Phys.
Lett. A **258**, 367 (1999).
