# Superconductivity in the Mn₅Si₃-type Zr₅Sb₃ system

B. Lv,^(1, *) X. Y. Zhu,¹ B. Lorenz,² F. Y. Wei,¹ Y. Y. Xue,¹ Z. P.
Yin,² G. Kotliar,² and C. W. Chu^(1, 3, *)

¹Department of Physics and Texas Center for Superconductivity,
University of Houston, Houston, Texas 77204-5002, USA

²Department of Physics and Astronomy, Rutgers University, Piscataway,
New Jersey 08854-8019, USA

³Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, Berkeley, California 94720, USA

of zirconium trigonal antiprismatic sites in the Zr₅Sb₃ host.[8] Band
structural calculations have shown that the zirconium states and
electrons are diverted from the broad conduction band to form the Zr-Z
bonds.[8]

Polycrystalline samples of Zr₅_X_₃ (X = Sb, Al, Ga, Ge, and Sn) were
synthesized through the arc-melting method. Figures 2(a) and 2(b) show
the x-ray Rietveld refinement patterns of Zr₅Sb₃ and Zr₅Sn₃,
respectively. The sharp peaks and good refinement values of Rp and Rwp
(Rp = 4.60

The superconductivity in Zr₅Sb₃ is evident from the magnetic
susceptibility χ(T), electrical resistivity ρ(T, H), and the
specific-heat C_(p)(T) measurements. Figure 3 displays the χ(T) measured
at 5 Oe both in the zero-field-cooled (ZFC) and field-cooled (FC) modes.
A clear diamagnetic shift is observed below 2.3 K. The shielding volume
fraction from ZFC-χ(T) is ∼1.3 before demagnetization correction, in
conjunction with the FC-χ(T), indicating bulk superconductivity for the
sample. The M(H) curve at 1.9 K in the inset shows clear type-II
superconductor characteristics, with a low critical field Ḣ_(c1) < 5 Oe.

The electrical resistivity ρ(T) of Zr₅Sb₃ is shown in Fig. 4, with a
room-temperature value of 0.36 mΩ cm. It decreases with decreasing
temperature, typical for a metal, and drops sharply below 2.3 K,
characteristic of a superconducting transition. The transition width is
estimated to be 0.2 K from 10 to 90

The bulk superconductivity of the compound is further demonstrated by
the pronounced specific-heat C_(p) anomaly, as shown in Fig. 5. The
superconducting transition is suppressed to below 0.4 K in a magnetic
field of 30 kOe (Fig. 5). The electronic Sommerfeld coefficient γ and
Debye temperature θ_(D) are 24.1 mJ/(mol K²) and ∼240 K, respectively.
The electronic contribution to the heat capacity C_(el) in the

Figure 1: (Color online) Crystal structure of Zr₅Sb₃: (a) side view; (b)
[001] projection. Two types of Zr atoms are labeled differently for
distinction.

Figure 3: ZFC susceptibility (solid circles) and FC susceptibility (open
circles) data at 5 Oe for Zr₅Sb₃ sample. Inset: M-H curve at 1.9 K.

Figure 2: (Color online) Rietveld refinement of (a) Zr₅Sb₃ (impurity
peaks marked by red stars) and (b) Zr₅Sn₃ x-ray powder pattern.

superconducting state is determined by subtracting the 30-kOe data. The
normalized C_(el)/(γT) as a function of the reduced temperature,
T/T_(c), is plotted in the inset of Fig. 5 and compared with the theory.
The BCS theory (dashed line) does not fit the data well; however, the
modification of the superconducting gap, as described by the
α-model,[11] leads to a good description of the experimental data. In
magnetic fields, the heat capacity peak is shifted to lower temperature,
as expected for the superconducting state. Data in different external
fields are shown in Fig. 6. The upper critical field H_(c2)(T) is
derived from the heat capacity data and shown in the inset of Fig. 6.
The extrapolation of H_(c2) to zero temperature is done by fitting the
data to the Werthamer-Helfand-Hohenberg (WHH) theory,[12] shown as the
red line in the figure. H_(c2)(0) is indeed found to be less than 30
kOe, as already suggested by the heat capacity data of Fig. 6.
Unfortunately, the isostructural Zr₅Sn₃ was found not to be
superconducting. Its C_(p) reveals a much smaller Sommerfeld coefficient
= 14 mJ/(mol K²) and Debye temperature θ_(D) = ∼280 K. Since γ in normal
metals is proportional to the electronic DOS at the Fermi level E_(F), a
40

The band structures and the DOS at the Fermi level of both Zr₅Sb₃ and
Zr₅Sn₃ have been calculated. Zr₅Sb₃ has bands at the Fermi level that
are much more strongly coupled to phonons than in Zr₅Sn₃, indicating
Zr₅Sb₃ has a much stronger electron-phonon coupling than Zr₅Sn₃.[13] The
DOS of Zr₅Sb₃ at the Fermi level is about 2.4 times higher than that of
Zr₅Sn₃, as shown in Fig. 7, in good agreement with the results of the
C_(p) experiments. Therefore, the observed superconductivity in Zr₅Sb₃
is possibly of the BCS type arising from decent electron-phonon
interaction as well as its high DOS at the F_(F) due to the d electrons
of Zr.

Figure 4: (Color online) Resistivity data of Zr₅Sb₃ at H = 0 between 1.9
and 300 K. Inset: resistivity data under different magnetic fields
between 1.9 and 3.0 K.

Figure 5: (Color online) Heat capacity of Zr₅Sb₃ at zero field (open
squares) and at H = 30 kOe (open red circles). The inset shows the
normalized electronic heat capacity in comparison with the BCS and
α-models (α = 1.55).

Figure 6: (Color online) Field dependence of the heat capacity of
Zr₅Sb₃. The inset shows the upper critical field vs temperature (open
squares) and the fit to the WHH theory (red line).

Figure 7: (Color online) The DOS of Zr₅Sb₃ and Zr₅Sn₃ calculated by
density functional theory with the generalized gradient approximation
exchange-correlation functional (Ref. 14).

Both hexagonal Mn₅Si₃-type (P6₃/mcm) and orthorhombic Y₅Bi₃-type (Pnma)
structures exist for the Zr₅Sb₃ compound. The former appears
nonstoichiometric as Zr₅Sb_(3 + x) with 0 ≤ x ≤ 0.4, while the latter
forms stoichiometrically but only stable at high temperature above 1200
^(∘)C.[7] To further investigate how the nonstoichiometry affects the
superconducting properties, samples with nominal compositions of Zr₅Sb₃
and Zr₅Sb_(3, 3) have been made through solid-state sintering process.
Different stoichiometric materials were mixed thoroughly and pressed
into a pellet inside a glove box. The pellets were initially sealed in a
Nb tube under Ar, subsequently sealed in the quartz jacket under vacuum,
and then heated up very slowly to 1000 ^(∘)C for 5 d. The lattice
parameter increases for Zr₅Sb_(3, 3) [a = b = 8.577(2) A and
c = 5.874(2) A], as compared to those of Zr₅Sb₃, clearly show the
difference of the Sb content and are consistent with previous
studies.[7] As illustrated in Fig. 8(a), both the onset T_(c) and
shielding fraction decrease in the Zr₅Sb_(3, 3) sample. As previous
studies indicated, the extra Sb in Zr₅Sb_(3 + x) occupies the octahedral
interstitial sites formed by the Zr trigonal antiprism,[7] and our
results show that superconductivity in Zr₅Sb₃ is suppressed when the
interstitial sites are filled by Sb atoms. We have further tested the
influence of Z= O and C, which are introduced to Zr₅Sb₃ through
arc-melting and sintering processes. The Zr₅Sb₃O and Zr₅Sb₃C were made
through sintering and the arc-melting process according to Ref. 8 by
nominal composition. The Zr₅Sb₃O_(x) was made though the arc-melting
process with reduced O₂ atmosphere (2.5

Chemical doping with different species has also been carried out. Ti
doping by 5

In summary, we have carried out magnetization, electrical resistivity,
and specific heat measurements, and band structure calculations on
Zr₅Sb₃ and Zr₅Sn₃. The results show bulk superconductivity with a
T_(c) ∼ 2.3 K in Zr₅Sb₃, representing the first superconductor
discovered in the large family of Mn₅Si₃ structure type. No
superconductivity above 2 K was detected in Zr₅Sn₃, attributable to its
low DOS at the Fermi level and absence of strongly phonon-coupled bands
around the Fermi energy given by the band structure calculations.
Detailed doping studies have shown that superconductivity in Zr₅Sb₃ is
rather robust with Hf and Y substitution of Zr, but suppressed by Ti
substitution; it is also suppressed by interstitial filling in Zr₅Sb₃Z
by Z= Sb, C, or O. In view of the large number of compounds in the
Mn₅Si₃ structure family, more superconductors, with some of higher
T_(c), are expected. An extensive search for superconductivity in this
and related compound families is underway.

The work in Houston is supported in part by US Air Force Office of
Scientific Research (AFOSR) Grant No. FA9550-09-1-0656, the T.L.L.
Temple Foundation, the John J. and Rebecca Moores Endowment, and the
State of Texas through the Texas Center for Superconductivity at the
University of Houston. Z.P.Y. and G.K. are supported by the US Air Force
Office of Scientific Research Multidisciplinary University Research
Initiative program.

Figure 8: (Color online) (a) ZFC susceptibilities under 5-Oe field for
Zr₅Sb₃, Zr₅Sb₃, Zr₅Sb₃O_(x), Zr₅Sb₃O_(x), and Zr₅Sb₃C. Abbreviations: AM
= arc melted; S = sintered. (b) ZFC and FC susceptibilities under 5-Oe
field for different (Zr_(1 − x)M_(x))₅Sb₃ (M = Ti, Hf, and Y) samples.

* (4) Authors to whom correspondence should be addressed: blv@uh.edu;
excu@uh.edu * (5) F. Steglich, J. Aarts, C. D. Bredl, W. Lieke, D.
Meschede, W. Franz, and H. Schafer, Phys. Rev. Lett. **43**, 1892
(1979). * (6) J. G. Bednorz and K. A. Muller, Z. Phys. B **64**, 189
(1986). * (7) M. K. Wu, J. R. Ashburn, C. J. Torng, P. H. Hor, R. L.
Meng, L. Gao, Z. J. Huang, Y. Q. Wang, and C. W. Chu, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**58**, 908 (1987). * (8) Y. Kamihara, T. Watanabe, M. Hirano, and H.
Hosono, J. Am. Chem. Soc. **130**, 3296 (2008). * (9) Data from
Inorganic Crystal Structure Database, available at
http://icsf.fiz-karlsruhe.de/ Accessed October 10, 2013. * (10) E.
Garcia and J. D. Corbett, J. Solid State Chem. **73**, 440 (1988). *
(11) E. Garcia and J. D. Corbett, Inorg. Chem. **29**, 3274 (1990). *
(12) J. D. Corbett, E. Garcia, A. M. Guloy, W. M. Hurng, Y. U. Kwon, and
E. A. Leon-Escamilla, Chem. Mater. **10**, 2824 (1998). * (13) Y. U.
Kwon and J. D. Corbett, Chem. Mater. **2**, 27 (1990). * (14) H.
Padamsee, J. E. Neighbor, and C. A. Shiffman, J. Low. Temp. Phys.
**12**, 387 (1973). * (15) N. R. Werthamer, E. Helfand, and P. C.
Hohenberg, Phys. Rev. **147**, 295 (1966). * (16) Z. P. Yin, A. Kutepov,
and G. Kotliar, Phys. Rev. X **3**, 021011 (2013). * (17) P. Blaha, K.
Schwarz, G. K. H. Madsen, D. Kvasnicka, and J. Luitz, _WIEN2K: An
Augmented Plane Wave + Local Orbitals Program For Calculating Crystal
Properties_ (Vienna University of Technology, Vienna, Austria, 2001); J.
P. Perdew, K. Burke, and M. Ernzerhof, Phys. Rev. Lett. **77**, 3865
(1996).
