# Thermal-relaxation studies of the stability of amorphous structures

in zirconium-based superconducting alloys

S. J. Poon

Department of Physics, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia
22901

###### Abstract

The superconducting transition temperature $T_{\rm c}$ of amorphous Zr₂X
(X = Co, Ni, Pd) and Zr₃X (X = Ni, Pd, Rh) alloys annealed isothermally
below their crystallization temperatures is studied as a function of
annealing time (up to ∼20−100 h). Upon annealing, $T_{\rm c}$ is always
found to decrease below its value in the as-quenched state. The major
portion of $T_{\rm c}$ depression is attributed to the relaxation of
"quenched-in" strains. Alloys of Zr₂Co, Zr₂Ni, Zr₂Pd, and Zr₃Rh which
undergo polymorphous crystallization (P alloys) show trends of
saturation in $T_{\rm c}$. On the other hand, for Zr₃Ni and Zr₃Pd alloys
which crystallize eutectically (E alloys), saturation in $T_{\rm c}$ is
only observed at relatively low annealing temperatures over rather short
intervals of annealing time. The results are attributed to the stability
and instability of the "equilibrium" amorphous structures in the P and E
alloys, respectively. It is conjectured that instability in the E alloys
leads to initial microscopic phase separation, the homogeneity of which
is evidenced by results on transition width and flux pinning
measurements. All homogeneous samples exhibit very weak flux-pinning
force of about 10⁴ N/m³ at 1.5 K. Prolonged annealing of E alloys leads
to eutectic decomposition. Predictions derived from a simple
"proximity-effect" model are consistent with the present findings.

## I Introduction

The variability in many of the properties of metallic glasses subject to
post-quench annealing is largely due to the subtle structural variations
in these highly degenerate systems. Associated with these systems are
the multiple local free-energy minima, the existence of which is
commonly demonstrated by the reversibility in the many physical
properties upon thermal relaxation. Experiments performed on reversible
relaxation in glassy alloys include magnetic,[1, 2] structural,[3, 4]
transport,[5] calorimetric,[6, 7] acoustic,[8] and superconductive[9,
10] measurements. In addition to the reversible transition between
"metastable" amorphous states created at different annealing
temperatures,[9] reversibility among "equilibrium" amorphous states
characterized by "saturation" in some of the physical properties have
also been observed in some amorphous magnetic and superconductive
alloys.[10, 11, 3] On the other hand, it was noted that in
superconductive Zr₃Pd alloys, saturation in $T_{\rm c}$ was never
achieved in the temperature range of 180−280^(∘)C.[10] Prolonged
annealing ultimately led to eutectic decomposition into α-Zr and Zr₂Pd.
One would naturally wonder about the nature of the intermediate states
prior to macroscopic phase separation and the stability of the
equilibrium amorphous structures with respect to the other competing
phases. To ensure that the existence of intermediate phases is not due
to the presence of "quenched-in" crystallites, appropriate tests must be
made to study the degree of homogeneity of the samples. The growth of
quenched-in crystallites in samples annealed below their glass
temperatures can sometimes alter their physical properties in a rather
significant way. It was found that the presence of crystallites in
amorphous superconductors could indeed enhance the transition width,
upper and lower critical fields, and critical current above those
obtained in homogeneous samples.[12, 13] As a result, superconductivity
provides a rather sensitive tool for probing the microscopic states of
amorphous alloys.

It is the purpose of this paper to study the stability of equilibrium
amorphous states in binary alloys, using superconducting transition
temperature $T_{\rm c}$ to characterize the amorphous states. The
occurrence of saturation in $T_{\rm c}$ upon isothermal annealing will
be used as sufficient evidence for the existence of equilibrium states,
according to the discussion presented above. The homogeneity of the
samples will be discussed in the light of transition width and flux
pinning force. Alloy systems with different superconducting properties
in their corresponding crystalline counterparts are being used to
provide a variety of atomic short-range orders and electronic structures
in the amorphous phase. This systematic study might lead to a better
understanding of the effect of annealing on T_(e). Finally, a simple
model based on the proximity effect is employed to treat phase
separation in amorphous systems. The format of this paper is as follows.
In Sec. II, experimental procedures are given. Section III presents
experimental results and discussion. Section IV is the summary and
conclusion.

## II Experimental Procedures

Alloys of composition Zr2Co, Zr2Ni, Zr3Ni, Zr2Pd, Zr3Pd, and Zr3Rh were
used in this study. Amorphous ribbons were prepared and analyzed
according to the methods outlined in Ref. 12. Sections of ribbons of
size  25 μm×1 mm×15 mm were used as samples in the superconducting
measurements. Critical temperature was measured resistively in a
four-point probe. The current density was  105 A/m². Temperature was
monitored using both a carbon resistor and a Hg manometer with
resolution of  2 mK. The variation of T_(e) along a given ribbon was
found to be less than 5 mK. Both as-quenched and annealed samples were
electropolished prior to critical current measurement. The electrolyte
was made from a solution of 1 part per-chloric acid and 4 parts ethyl
alcohol. The electropolishing was carried out at temperatures of -20
degC. Critical current measurement was performed in a magnetic field up
to  40 kOe. A voltage signal of  1-2 μV across the voltage leads was
used as a criterion for the determination of critical current.

Sample strips were annealed in thin-wall Pyrex tubes repeatedly
evacuated and flushed with argon gas. Excess ribbons about 20 times the
size of a sample strip and strips of titanium were placed within the
capsule to getter oxygen. The furnace temperature was controlled to
within 2 K. After heat treatment the samples were cooled rapidly by
moving the capsule from the furnace to water. The annealed samples were
routinely scanned by a standard x-ray diffractometer. For isothermal
annealing, the same sample strips were used to study its T_(e)
dependence on annealing time. The "additive" annealing effect was
checked by measuring several strips of the same ribbons annealed at
various lengths of time. The results were almost identical. At least two
strips were used for each isothermal annealing.

## III Results and Discussion

### Homogeneity of samples and transition width

It usually takes about 10-100 h of annealing to establish a definite
trend in the T_(e) behavior. Therefore, caution must be taken to avoid
crystallization, phase separation, and possible gaseous contamination in
the samples. The effect of phase separation and crystallization on the
transition width ΔT_(e) and flux pinning force will be discussed in the
following sections. To minimize the possible influence on the results
due to gaseous contamination and quenched-in surface layers of oxides
and crystallites the thickness of which is typically about 10 nm or
less,[14] maximum annealing time on all samples was limited to about 200
h. Under these conditions, a criterion based on the transition width
ΔT_(e) defined by the 0

ΔT_(e) = 0.1811ρ₀²T_(e)²H_(e2)^(′)(T_(e)) ,

where ρ₀(Ω cm) is the normal-state resistivity and
$H_{e2}^{\prime}({\rm Oe}/{\rm K}) = [dH_{e2}(T)/dT]_{T = T_{e}}$ is the
upper critical field slope at T_(e). The predicted and measured values
of ΔT_(e) are tabulated in Table 1. In view of the limitations on the
accuracy and resolution ( 2 mK) of the temperature sensors, the
agreement is quite good. On the other hand, in inhomogeneous

  -------- ----------------- ---------------- ----------------------------- ----------------- ----------------- --
            **As quenched**                    [dH_(e2)(T)/dT]_(T = T_(e))      Predicted           Data        
   Alloys      T_(e) (K)      ρ₀ (10⁻⁶ Ω cm)             (kOe/K)             ΔT_(e) (10⁻³ K)   ΔT_(e) (10⁻³ K)  
   Zr2Co         3.00              180                    32.7a                   1.73               ∼5         
   Zr2Ni         2.77              170                    28.6a                   1.15               ∼4         
   Zr3Ni         3.35              170                    33.4b                   1.96               ∼5         
   Zr2Pd         2.36              175                    28.5b                   0.89               ∼4         
   Zr3Pd         2.96              180                    30.2b                   1.55               ∼4         
   Zr3Rh         4.30              230                    31.8b                   5.63               ∼5         
  -------- ----------------- ---------------- ----------------------------- ----------------- ----------------- --

Table 1: Comparison between theoretically predicted transition widths
and experimental values.

samples $\Delta T_{\rm c}$ can be an order of magnitude higher than the
predicted values.[12] In what follows, a transition width of ∼ 4-7 mK
for the present alloys will be taken as characteristic of samples which
are homogeneous on a spatial scale of less than the zero temperature
coherence length ξ(0).

### Effect of isothermal annealing on $T_{\rm c}$

Figures 1 and 2 show the dependence of $T_{\rm c}$ as a function of
annealing time t_(a) at various annealing temperatures T_(a) for
amorphous Zr₃Pd and Zr₃Rh samples, respectively. The crystallization
temperatures were found to be ∼ 673 K for Zr₃Pd (Ref. [16]) and ∼ 730 K
for Zr₃Rh.[17] Thus the maximum annealing temperatures are ∼ 150 and ∼
90 K below the crystallization temperatures for Zr₃Pd and Zr₃Rh,
respectively. There is a tendency, however, for the amorphous phase in
Zr₃Pd to phase separate (or crystallize) when the samples are being
annealed at 523 K for only more than ∼ 5 h or at 488 K for more than ∼
12 h. This is characterized by significant degradation in $T_{\rm c}$ (<
2.3 K) and drastic increase in $\Delta T_{\rm c}$ (> 100 mK). Prolonged
annealing leads to crystallization into α-Zr and Zr₂Pd. No tendency
towards saturation in $T_{\rm c}$ is observed for T_(a) ≥ 453 K. On the
other hand, definite trends of saturation in $T_{\rm c}$ can be seen in
the Zr₃Rh samples. This is notedly marked by the "convergence" in the
family of $T_{\rm c}(t_{a})$ curves. To perform a routine test for the
existence of equilibrium amorphous phase, cyclic annealing is carried
out between 553 K for 40 h and 643 K for 30 min (Fig. 2). At the end of
each annealing at 553 K, the equilibrium $T_{\rm c}$ value is
reproduced. The result is typical of the reversibility of transitions
between equilibrium amorphous structures.[3, 11] In view of the
instability of the amorphous structures in Zr₃Pd, annealing is also
being carried out at lower temperatures of 413 and 433 K. Regions of
t_(a) showing tendency towards saturation in $T_{\rm c}$ are indeed
observed. Instability of the equilibrium structure is detected when the
samples are annealed at 433 K for longer than 10 h. The transition
widths $\Delta T_{\rm c}$ in Zr₃Pd prior to the onset of
crystallization, however, are mostly 4-7 mK. This is indicative of a
high degree of sample homogeneity (see Table 1).

Trends of saturation in $T_{\rm c}$ are also observed in Zr₂Co, Zr₂Ni,
and Zr₂Pd alloys, as shown in Figs. 3 and 4. On the other hand, the
$T_{\rm c}(t_{a})$ behavior in Zr₃Ni samples (Fig. 4) is rather similar
to that observed in Zr₃Pd. Saturations in $T_{\rm c}$ are only observed
over short intervals of t_(a) at 433 and 483 K. At T_(a) = 593 K
(crystallization temperature at 633 K for Zr₃Ni),[18] strong degradation
in $T_{\rm c}$ (< 1.8 K) and a significant increase in
$\Delta T_{\rm c}$ (> 100 mK) are observed for t_(a) > 1 h. Again,
prolonged annealing yields crystalline α-Zr and Zr₂Ni phases. It should
be mentioned that the present annealing study is not performed on Zr₃Co
samples because $\Delta T_{\rm c}$ > 30 mK

Figure 1: Superconducting transition temperature as a function of
annealing time at different annealing temperatures in amorphous Zr₃Pd
alloys. Dashed lines indicate onset of crystallization (see text).

Figure 3: Same as in Fig. 1 for amorphous Zr₃Co and Zr₃Pd alloys. Again,
“convergence” behavior in $T_{\rm c}$ is observed.

Figure 2: Same as in Fig. 1 for amorphous Zr₃Rh alloys. Note the
“convergence” in $T_{\rm c}$ after long term annealing. Inset shows the
effect of cyclic annealing on $T_{\rm c}$. The labels 643 K, 30 min, and
533 K refer to increasing and decreasing $T_{\rm c}$, respectively.

even in the as-quenched samples.

Up to this point, one naturally wonders why the equilibrium amorphous
structures are stable in some systems but unstable in the others, and
about the origin of the T_(e) depression in the annealed samples. It is
found from the present crystallization studies on Zr2X (_X_ = Co,Ni,Pd),
Zr3Co, Zr3Ni,[18] Zr3Pd, and Zr3Rh (Ref. [17]) that _a_-Zr, Zr2Co,
Zr2Ni, Zr2Pd, and Zr3Rh are the stable crystalline phases. Therefore, a
clear correlation is seen between the behavior in T_(e)(t_(a)) and the
different modes of crystallization. The latter refer to polymorphous
crystallization of the amorphous alloy without any change in
concentration into a supersaturated alloy or a metastable or stable
crystalline compound, and eutectic crystallization defined as the
simultaneous crystallization of two crystalline phases. In alloy systems
undergoing polymorphous crystallization (_P_ alloys), saturation in
T_(e) is observed. On the other hand, in alloys exhibiting eutectic
crystallization (_E_ alloys), no stable saturation trend can be seen.
Ideally, crystallization should not occur in amorphous samples annealed
below their glass temperatures. This seems to be the case in the P
alloys under restricted annealing time (less than 200 h) discussed
earlier. The intermediate amorphous states prior to the onset of
crystallization in the E alloys must evolve from the "short-lived"
equilibrium amorphous structures. The sharp transition ΔT_(e) indicates
homogeneity in the intermediate states down to a scale of ξ(0).
Meanwhile, the tendency towards eutectic crystallization at relatively
low T_(a) suggests the presence of components (phases) with lower
crystallization temperatures than in the original hosts. Ordinary x-ray
scan does not indicate any observable change in the diffraction pattern.
Incidentally, several cases of macroscopic phase separation in amorphous
alloys were reported.[14, 19, 20] The present results taken together
prompts one to conjecture on the possibility of microscopic phase
separation in the intermediate states. The characteristic scale of the
phase separation is not known at present.

In amorphous alloys post-quench annealing leads to changes in the
chemical short-range order and physical short-range order of the
alloys.[4] Associated with these changes are the collapse and
redistribution of quenched-in voids (defects) and the reduction in
internal strains. So far the T_(e) of amorphous superconductors have
been found to decrease upon annealing. Cumulated data taken from Ref.
[10] and the present results include Zr-Co, Zr-Fe, Zr-Ni, Zr-Pd, Zr-Rh,
La-Cu, V-Si, and Nb-Ge. This list covers a wide range of alloys with
different electronic and vibrational properties. Indeed, the T_(e) in
the amorphous states can be either higher or lower than the values in
their crystalline counterparts [for example, in crystalline Zr2Co,
T_(e)≃5 K,[21] and in crystalline Zr3Rh, T_(e)≃3 K (Ref. [22])].
Therefore, it is unlikely that the T_(e) depression upon annealing is
due to the change in chemical (compositional) short-range order alone.
In fact, it was found that the T_(e) values of eutectic alloys depend
rather sensitively on the presence of strains.[23] Therefore, the major
portions of T_(e) depression in our alloys are probably due to the
"hardening" of phonon modes as the internal stress is relaxed. To
account for the magnitude of T_(e) depression (∼0.2−0.5 K), a change in
internal strain of ∼0.02

### Comparison of flux pinning force in as-quenched and annealed samples

Since the critical current J_(e) behavior in type-II superconductors
depends on the metallurgical conditions of the samples, measurement of
J_(e) can yield complementary information about the amorphous states.
Here, the dependence of flux pinning behavior on annealing is studied in
both P and E alloys. This also yields information on the homogeneity of
the amorphous samples. In Fig. 5 we compare the flux pinning force F_(p)
(defined by the product J_(e)H, where H is the applied magnetic field)
of the P alloy Zr2Ni in its as-quenched and equilibrium states. For
these samples, it is found that F_(p)∝H_(e)^(1.5). Taking this scaling
relation into account,

Figure 4: Same as in Fig. 1 for amorphous Zr2Ni and Zr3Ni alloys. Note
the contrasting T_(e) trends in the two systems.

the values F_(p)/H_(e2)^(1.5) in ,both states become comparable. It
should be mentioned that the broad maxima observed near H≃0.1H_(e2) are
probably due to pinning by the sample edges.[25] Electropolishing has
not been able to remove this edge effect entirely. Figure 6 compares
F_(p) of the E alloy Zr₃Ni in its auguenched and intermediate state. The
constancy in F_(p) as a function of H is characteristic of an ideal
type-II superconductor. On the other hand, it is found that E alloys
embedded with microcrystallites yield F_(p)/H_(e2)² values at least 5
times higher than the ones shown in Fig. 6. It should be mentioned that
the present values of F_(p) (∼10⁴ N/m³ at 1.6 K) are among the lowest
reported thus far for amorphous superconductors.[26] The critical
currents at H = 0 are 100−1000 A/cm² at 1.5 K.

### Phase separation and the proximity effect

It was conjectured in Sec. III.2 that the intermediate states obtained
in the E alloys Zr₃Ni and Zr₃Pd are associated with microscopic phase
separation. If the scale of the phase separation is smaller than the
coherence length ξ(0), then the sample is still homogeneous and the
resistive transition can be very sharp. In general, one should
investigate the transition width in samples containing different amounts
of second phase(s), which can either be amorphous or crystalline. The
second phases(s) might not be detectable in an ordinary x-ray scan. In
what follows, a simple model based on the proximity effect will be used
to study this problem.

The inset of Fig. 7 shows a section of a sample, with host parameters
T_(e2) and ξ₂, having dispersed in it a second phase with parameters
T_(e1) and ξ₁, where T_(e2) > T_(e1). At some temperatures above T_(e0)
(temperature at which the sample resistivity vanishes) of the system,
the size of the superconducting droplets ξ can fit between the particles
of size a. The T_(e) of the droplets is still T_(e2) (region A in Fig.
7). As T_(e0) is approached, at some point the droplets have to overlap
the particles leading to a decrease in the T_(e) of the droplets.
Meanwhile, there will be a distribution in the T_(e) of the droplets.
For simplicity, we take the characteristic T_(e) of the distribution as
T_(e)(B) found in droplet B centered at one of the particles with radius
equal to half of the distance L between the uniformly distributed
particles. Based on this simple model, the typical distribution (or

Figure 5: Flux pinning force as a function of reduced temperature t =
T/T_(e) and applied magnetic field for Zr₂Ni in the as-quenched and
annealed (483 K for 17 h, T_(e) = 2.48 K) states. Arrows indicate the
H_(e2)(T) values.

Figure 6: Same as in Fig. 5 for as-quenched and annealed (483 K for 89
h, T_(e) = 2.74 K) Zr₃Ni samples.

Figure 7: Calculated fractional volume of second phase (T_(e1)/ξ₁)
embedded in hose (T_(e2)/ξ₂) vs transition width for different values of
τ = (T_(e2)/T_(e1)) and ξ₁/ξ₂. Inset shows section of the sample
containing inclusions (hatched circles). A and B represent
characteristic superconducting droplets (see text).

broadening) in $T_{\rm c}$ called γ in a sample is simply taken as
$T_{\rm c2}\!-\!T_{\rm c}(B)$. From previous results in inhomogeneous
samples,[27]$\Delta T_{\rm c}\!\simeq\!\gamma$ for small distribution in
$T_{\rm c}$. Therefore, we can approximate $\Delta T_{\rm c}$ by
$T_{\rm c2}\!-\!T_{\rm c}(B)$.

To obtain $T_{\rm c}(B)$, we generalize the approach of Silvert and
Singh[28] to the case $T_{\rm c2}\!>\!T_{\rm c1}$ and ξ₁  ≫ ξ₂ with free
boundary condition on the spherical surface of B. The set of equations
takes the following form:

$$X(-q^{2}\xi_{1}^{2}) = \ln\left[\frac{1}{t}\right]\ ,$$
(2)
$$X(k^{2}\xi_{2}^{2}) = \ln\left[\frac{\tau}{t}\right]\ ,$$
(3)
$$\left\{\frac{\xi_{1}}{\xi_{2}}\right\}aq\coth(aq) - \left[\frac{\xi_{1}}{\xi_{2}}-1\right]$$
 = −ka tan (ka + δ) ,
(4)
$$\tan(kL+\delta) = -\frac{1}{kL}\ ,$$
(5)

where $X(z) = \psi(\frac{1}{2}z+\frac{1}{2}) - \psi(\frac{1}{2})$, ψ is
the digamma function, L is approximated by
$\xi_{2}[\,1\!-\![T_{\rm c}(B)/T_{\rm c2}]\,]^{- 1/2}$,
$t = T_{\rm c}(B)/T_{\rm c1}$, $\tau = T_{\rm c2}/T_{\rm c1}$, q⁻¹ is
the characteristic range of the pair correlation amplitude inside the
particle, k⁻¹ is the wavelength of the amplitude oscillation outside the
particle, and δ is the phase shift obtained from the boundary
conditions. Taking $T_{\rm c2}\!\simeq\!3$ K, we have plotted in Fig. 7
the fractional volume of crystallites ΔV/V [∼ (a/L)³] as a function of
$\Delta T_{\rm c}$ for different values of ξ₁/ξ₂ and τ. It can be seen
that $T_{\rm c}$ is affected by any finite size of the inclusions,
contrary to the case for $T_{\rm c2}\!<\!T_{\rm c1}$.[28] The total
transition width is simply approximated by the one due to
inhomogeneities. Since the two E alloy systems have very similar
physical properties, we can focus our discussion on the Zr₃Pd alloys.
For amorphous hosts containing inclusions of second phase(s), the
following special cases will be considered. A general case will be a
combination of them.

(i) The inclusions are products of eutectic crystallization. Both phases
α-Zr and Zr₂Pd have low $T_{\rm c}$ values [ ∼ 0.5 K for α-Zr, Zr₂Pd is
not superconducting down to 1.3 K (Ref. [10]) yielding τ ≃ 6 and large
coherence lengths. According to Fig. 7, the transition can remain sharp
as long as ΔV/V is less than several percent, since ξ₁/ξ₂ is quite large
(estimated to be ∼ 100 in the clean limit for the crystallites). This
agrees with the present data. Meanwhile, the composition of the host
remains constant so that there should be a trend towards $T_{\rm c}$
saturation as the equilibrium state is approached. This is not observed.
On the other hand, if the crystallites are disordered so that the ratio
ξ₁/ξ₂ is substantially reduced, then $\Delta T_{\rm c}$ should be quite
large (Fig. 7). This is contrary to the experimental results.

(ii) If most of the crystallites are Zr₂Pd, then $T_{\rm c}$ should go
up as the amorphous host is enriched with Zr. Again, this disagrees with
the present data.

(iii) The crystallites are predominantly α-Zr, and the transition
remains sharp according to the analysis given in case (i) (Fig. 7).
$T_{\rm c}$ of the host enriched with Pd will decrease with composition
x according to the rate $dT_{\rm c}/dx=-100$ mK/at.

Thus the picture of an amorphous host containing a random dispersion of
inclusions is inconsistent with the experimental results. On the other
hand, a microscopic and uniform phase separation on a scale much smaller
than ξ₂ of the original host can still yield results which are
consistent with data on transition width and flux pinning. The proximity
model then becomes irrelevant. The trend of $T_{\rm c}$ depression,
however, is not understood at present.

## IV Summary and conclusion

In this work, we have compared the stability of equilibrium amorphous
structures in eutectic and polymorphous alloys, using superconductivity
as a probe. Convergent trends of saturation in $T_{\rm c}$ are observed
in the P alloys. On the other hand, in the E alloys, the
$T_{\rm c}(t_{\rm a})$ curves tend to diverge from each other. As a
result of the evolution of equilibrium states into intermediate states,
the $T_{\rm c}$ values continue to decrease in the E alloys. The
superconducting properties of the intermediate states are characterized
by sharp resistive transitions and very low flux pinning forces. This
suggests that the intermediate states are highly homogeneous. More
quantitative analysis of $\Delta T_{\rm c}$ is carried out using a
simple model based on the proximity effect. The results do not favor the
picture of microcrystalline inclusions embedded in the amorphous hosts.
This prompts us to conjecture microscopic phase separation in the
intermediate states. The nature and scale of the phase separation
deserves further structural studies of these amorphous phases. The
understanding of the stability and instability of the equilibrium
amorphous structures will undoubtedly shed light on the formation of
amorphous phases in general.

## Acknowledgment

This research is supported by the National Science Foundation under
Grant No. DMR-82-02624.

## References

* [1] B. S. Berry and W. C. Pretchet, Phys. Rev. Lett. 34, 1022
(1975). * [2] T. Egami, Mater. Res. Bull. 13, 557 (1978). * [3] T.
Egami, Ann. N.Y. Acad. Sci. 371, 238 (1981). * [4] T. Egami, in
_Amorphous Metallic Alloys_, edited by F. E. Luborsky (Butterworths,
London, in press). * [5] See, for example, Proceedings of the
Twenty-Sixth Annual Conference on Magnetism and Magnetic Materials [J.
Appl. Phys. 52, 1859 (1981)]. * [6] M. G. Scott, Scripta Metall. 15,
1073 (1981). * [7] H. S. Chen, J. Appl. Phys. 52, 1868 (1981), and
papers cited therein. * [8] A. Kursumovic, M. G. Scott, E. Girt, and R.
W. Cahn, Scripta Metall. 14, 1303 (1980). * [9] A. C. Anderson, C. C.
Koch, and J. O. Scarbrough, Phys. Rev. B 3, 1156 (1982). * [10] S. J.
Poon, in _Amorphous Metallic Alloys_, Ref. 4, Chap. 22. * [11] A. L.
Greer and J. A. Leake, in _Rapidly Quenched Metals III_, edited by B.
Cantor (Chameleon, London, 1978), Vol. 1, p. 299. * [12] S. J. Poon and
P. L. Dunn (unpublished). * [13] S. J. Poon, S. K. Hasanain, and K. M.
Wong, Phys. Lett. 93A, 495 (1983). * [14] U. Koster (private
communication). * [15] L. G. Aslamazov and A. I. Larkin, Phys. Lett.
26A, 238 (1968). * [16] J. Kubler, K. H. Bennemann, R. Lapka, S. Rosel,
P. Oelhafen, and H.-J. Guntherodt, Phys. Rev. B 23, 5176 (1981). * [17]
K. H. J. Buschow, J. Phys. (Paris) Colloq. 42, C8-555 (1981). * [18] Y.
D. Dong, G. Gregan, and M. G. Scott, J. Non-Cryst. Solids 43, 403
(1981). * [19] C. P. Chou and D. Turnbull, J. Non-Cryst. Solids 17, 169
(1975). * [20] C. O. Kim and W. L. Johnson, Phys. Rev. B 23, 143
(1981). * [21] E. E. Havinga, H. Damsina, and P. Hokkeling, J.
Less-Common Metals 27, 169 (1972), and references cited therein. * [22]
A. J. Drehman and W. L. Johnson, Phys. Status Solidi A 52, 499 (1974). *
[23] H. Suhl, B. T. Matthias, S. Hecker, and J. L. Smith, Phys. Rev.
Lett. 45, 1707 (1980). * [24] R. E. Elmquist and S. J. Poon, Solid State
Commun. 41, 221 (1982). * [25] B. M. Clemens and W. L. Johnson, J. Appl.
Phys. 11, 7612 (1982). * [26] See, for example, _Proceedings of the
Fourth International Conference on Rapidly Quenched Metals,_ edited by
T. Masumoto and K. Suzuki (The Japan Institute of Metals, 1982), Vol.
II, p. 1215. * [27] S. J. Poon, Phys. Rev. B 25, 1977 (1982). * [28] W.
Silvert and A. Singh, Phys. Rev. Lett. 28, 222 (1972).
