Transport properties in normal-metal Bi₂Pd₃Se₂ and superconducting
Bi₂Pd₃Se₂

Takeshi Sakamoto

Makoto Wakeshima

Present address: Department of Electronics, Faculty of Engineering,
Kyushu Institute of Technology, Kitakyushu 804-8550, Japan

Yukio Hinatsu

Division of Chemistry, Graduate School of Science, Hokkaido University,
Sapporo 060-0810, Japan

Kazuyuki Matsuhira

Department of Electronics, Faculty of Engineering, Kyushu Institute of
Technology, Kitakyushu 804-8550, Japan

Received 16 April 2008; published 9 July 2008

###### Abstract

The transport properties of the parkerite-related compounds Bi₂Pd₃X₂
(X=S,Se) were studied. The electrical resistivities of both compounds
show typical metallic behavior up to 400 K. Resistivity and specific
heat measurements at low temperatures reveal that Bi₂Pd₃Se₂ is
superconducting below 1 K. On the other hand, Bi₂Pd₃S₂ does not show a
bulk superconducting transition down to 0.35 K. In the normal state, the
electronic specific heat coefficient γ and the Debye temperature
$\Theta_{\rm D}$ are found to be 5.9 mJ/mol K² and 170 K, respectively
for Bi₂Pd₃S₂, and 8.3 mJ/mol K² and 150 K, respectively for Bi₂Pd₃Se₂.
In the superconducting state for Bi₂Pd₃Se₂, the upper critical field at
zero temperature for Bi₂Pd₃Se₂ is 290 mT. From the electronic specific
heat in the superconducting temperature range, it was found that
Bi₂Pd₃Se₂ belongs to an s-wave weak-coupling superconductor.

2008 10.1103/PhysRevB.78.024509 78.024509 78.024509 78.024509 78.024509

## I Introduction

Transition-metal chalcogenides have been of interest in chemistry and
materials science because of their exceptional physical and chemical
properties such as charge-density-wave behavior, superconductivity, and
intercalation reactions. In addition, striking structures are observed
in the mixed metal-rich chalcogenides, which form a wide variety of
heterometallic bonds ranging from one-dimensional (1D) chains in
S₁₊M₃Te₈ (M=Ru,Os) (Ref. 1), 2D slabs in Ni₆SnS₂ and Ni₉Sn₂S₂ (Ref. 2),
and 3D frameworks Ta₉M₂S₆ (M=Fe,Co,Ni) (Ref. 3).

Ternary-metal-rich chalcogenides Bi₂M₃X₂ (M =Ni,Rh,Pd; X=S,Se)
crystallize in the parkerite-type structure.[4, 5, 6] Recently, the
detailed crystal structure for parkerite Bi₂Ni₃S₂ was reported from its
single-crystal x-ray diffraction analysis.[7] The structure can be
represented as a 3D framework formed by the strong heterometallic Ni-Bi
and Ni-S bonds. At the same time, very weak Ni-Ni bonds also exist. On
the physical properties of parkerite-related compounds, only the results
of resistivity and thermopower measurements above liquid-nitrogen
temperature were reported.[6]

In our previous study, it was found that the parkerite-related nickel
chalcogenides Bi₂Ni₃S₂ and Bi₂Ni₃Se₂ had slightly different crystal
structures. Both compounds showed a superconducting transition (T_(c)∼
0.7 K) through their electrical resistivity and specific heat
measurements.[8] Furthermore, we reported that a new rhodium selenide
Bi₂Rh₃Se₂ exhibited a charge-density-wave (CDW) transition around 240 K
in addition to a superconducting transition (T_(c)∼ 0.7 K).[9] In the
case of Bi₂Rh₃Se₂, it is suggested that a pseudo-2D Fermi surface, which
is formed by strong 2D Rh-Rh bonds, yields a CDW state below 240 K from
the calculation of the electronic structure using the full-potential
linearized augmented plane wave + local orbitals (FP-LAPW + lo) method.

In order to investigate the interesting electronic properties of the
parkerite-type compounds, we have carried out electrical resistivity,
thermoelectric power, and specific heat measurements of palladium
chalcogenides Bi₂Pd₃X₂ (X=S,Se). For only the Bi₂Pd₃Se₂, a
superconducting transition was observed. Their results will be reported
here.

## II Experiment

The samples were prepared from stoichiometric mixtures of the following
elements: Bi powder (99.9

Powder x-ray diffraction measurements were carried out in the region of
10^(∘)≤ 2θ≤ 120^(∘) using Cu Kα radiation on a Rigaku RINT 2000
diffractometer equipped with a curved graphite monochromator. The
crystal structures were determined by the Rietveld technique, using the
program RietAN 2000.[10]

Electrical resistivity measurements were carried out in the temperature
range of 0.35-400 K and in magnetic fields up to 400 mT by the standard
four-probe method with using a Quantum Design
physical-property-measurement system (PPMS) equipped with a ³He
refrigerator. The sintered samples were cut into pieces having sizes of
approximately 5× 2×0.7 mm³ (Bi₂Pd₃S₂) and 4×2×1 mm³ (Bi₂Pd₃Se₂). Four
contact wires were painted onto the samples using silver paste.

The thermoelectric power (TEP) was measured by a differential method
using Au-0.07

Specific heat measurements were performed by thermal relaxation in the
temperature range between 0.35 K and 15 K with the PPMS. The sintered
samples (∼15 mg) were mounted on a thin alumina plate with Apiezon N
grease for better thermal contact.

## III Results and discussion

### X-ray powder diffraction

The Bi₂Pd₃X₂ (X=S,Se) phases are identified from the x-ray diffraction
(XRD) profiles. The x-ray diffraction profiles for Bi₂Pd₃S₂ and
Bi₂Pd₃Se₂ are shown in Figs. 1(a) and 1(b), respectively. The profile
for Bi₂Pd₃X₂ is indexed with a monoclinic parkerite-type cell with the
space group C2/m. By a Rietveld analysis, the crystallographic
parameters of Bi₂Pd₃S₂ were refined as the initial values using those of
the Bi₂Ni₃S₂-type structure [8] and its calculated XRD profile is in
good agreement with the observed one (the reliability factors are 9.1

However, the R factors for Bi₂Pd₃Se₂ are comparatively large
($R_{\rm{wp}}$=13.7

### Physical properties

Figure 2(a) shows the temperature dependence of the electrical
resistivity for Bi₂Pd₃S₂. Above 0.8 K, the resistivity increases
monotonously with temperature up to 400 K, which indicates a typical
metallic conductivity. Around 0.6 K, the resistivity shows a
superconducting phase transition. However, this transition is not
observed for the specific heat measurement as will be described later;
thus, this anomaly is supposed to be caused by a superconducting
impurity which is an undetectable phase in the x-ray diffraction
profile.

Figure 2(b) shows the temperature dependence of the electrical
resistivity for Bi₂Pd₃Se₂. This compound also shows typical metallic
behavior up to 400 K. The resistivity as a function of temperature below
1.5 K is plotted in the inset of Fig. 2(b). Below 1.1 K, the resistivity
drops abruptly, indicating a phase transition to a superconducting
state.

Figure 2(c) shows the temperature dependence of TEP for Bi₂Pd₃Se₂. It
can be seen that the thermopower of Bi₂Pd₃Se₂ is negative over the whole
temperature range and the thermopower S has approximately a linear
relationship with temperature above 100 K. These results indicate that
this compound is a typical metallic one. Below 50 K, S drops with
decreasing temperature and this drop would result from the phonon-drag
effect. The total S is represented by the relation

$$S=S_{\rm{d}}+S_{\rm{p}},$$
(1)

where $S_{\rm{d}}$ and $S_{\rm{p}}$ are the diffusion thermoelectric
power and the contribution from the phonon drag, respectively. The
diffusion thermoelectric power $S_{\rm{d}}$ is represented as
$-(\pi^{2}k_{\rm{B}}^{2}T/3\left|e\right|)\left[dN(\bm{\epsilon})/d\bm{\epsilon}\right]$
in the simplest free-electron model with the density states N(ϵ) near
the Fermi level $\epsilon_{\rm{F}}$. The contribution of the phonon drag
is described by [12]

$$S_{\rm{p}}=\left(\frac{T}{\Theta_{\rm{D}}}\right)^{3}\int_{0}^{T\Theta_{\rm{D }}}\frac{x^{4}\exp x}{(\exp x-1)^{2}}\alpha(x)dx,$$

$$\alpha(x)=\frac{1}{1+\tau_{\rm{pe}}/\tau_{\rm{pp}}}=\frac{1}{1+2\times 10^{- 6}\exp(-\beta T)x^{2}T^{3}},$$
(2)

where $\tau_{\rm{pe}}$ and $\tau_{\rm{pp}}$ are the relaxation time for
phonon-electron interaction and the relaxation time for phonon-phonon
interaction, respectively. The theoretical curve with the Debye
temperature $\Theta_{\rm{D}}$=150 K [solid line in Fig. 3(c)] using Eq.
(1) is in good agreement with the experimental data. This value of
$\Theta_{\rm{D}}$ is consistent with the value of $\Theta_{\rm{D}}$=150
K obtained from the specific heat measurement as will be described
later.

Figure 3(a) shows the temperature dependence of resistivities in various
magnetic fields. The resistivity in the zero field drops sharply,
indicating a phase transition to a superconducting state. The onset
temperature is 1.1 K, and zero resistivity is attained below 0.9 K. The
critical temperature

Figure 1: X-ray diffraction profiles for (a) Bi₂Pd₃S₂ and (b) Bi₂Pd₃Se₂.

T_(c) is defined as the midpoint of the transition; $T_{c}^{\rm mid,R}$
= 0.96 K. Figure 3(b) shows the field dependence of resistivities at
various temperatures. The values of $T_{c}^{\rm mid,R}$ decrease with
increasing applied field as shown in Figs. 3(a) and 3(b). Assuming that
Bi₂Pd₃Se₂ is a type-II superconductor, as will be justified below, the
upper critical fields μ₀H_(c2)(T) were determined from Figs. 3(a) and
3(b).

Figure 4 shows μ₀H_(c2)(T) as a function of the critical temperature.
According to the Werthamer-Helfand-Hohenberg (WHH) theory for a type-II
superconductor in the dirty limit,[13] the upper critical field at zero
temperature can be estimated from the relation

Figure 4: Temperature dependence of the upper critical field for
Bi₂Pd₃Se₂ determined from the electrical resistivity data. Dotted lines
show the fitting results using the WHH theory.

Figure 3: (a) Temperature dependence of the electrical resistivity under
various magnetic fields for Bi₂Pd₃Se₂. (b) Magnetic field dependence of
electrical resistivity at various temperatures for Bi₂Pd₃Se₂.

Figure 2: (a) Temperature dependence of the electrical resistivity for
Bi₂Pd₃S₂. (b) Temperature dependence of the electrical resistivity for
Bi₂Pd₃Se₂. (c) Thermoelectric power as a function of temperature bore
Bi₂Pd₃Se₂. The solid line shows fitting results using Eq. (1).

$$\mu_{\rm{o}}H_{c2}(0)=-\,0.693T_{c}\bigg{(}\frac{d\mu_{\rm{o}}H_{c2}(T)}{dT}\bigg{)} _{T-T_{c}}.$$
(3)

The gradient $d\mu_{\rm{o}}H_{c2}(T)/dT$ in the linear region near T_(c)
of Bi₂Pd₃Se₂ is found to be about −473$\rm\,\,mT/K$. Consequently, the
$\mu_{\rm{o}}H_{c2}(0)$ values are found to be about 315 mT. Moreover,
the values of the Ginzburg-Landau (GL) coherence length at zero
temperature, $\xi_{\rm{GL}}(0)$, can be estimated to be 323 A by the
following formula,

$$\mu_{\rm{o}}H_{c2}(0)=\frac{\Phi_{0}}{2\,\pi\xi_{\rm{GL}}(0)^{2}},$$
(4)

where Φ₀ is the quantum flux.

The temperature dependences of the specific heat, C, divided by
temperature for Bi₂Pd₃S₂ and Bi₂Pd₃Se₂ are shown in Figs. 5(a) and 5(b),
respectively. For Bi₂Pd₃S₂, the C_(p)/T-T² plot shows no anomaly down to
0.35 K. Thus, the superconducting phase transition observed in the ρ-T
plot [Fig. 2(a)] is not a nature originated from the bulk of Bi₂Pd₃S₂.
For Bi₂Pd₃Se₂, the fact that a jump in the specific heat is observed
starting at 0.83K is indicative of the bulk superconducting transition.
The critical temperature from specific heat data defined as the midpoint
of the transition ($T_{c}^{\rm{mid,C}}$) is determined to be 0.81 K for
Bi₂Pd₃Se₂.

We assume that the total specific heat is composed of the electron and
lattice parts C(T)=$C_{\rm{e}}(T)$+$C_{\rm{ph}}(T)$. In the normal
state, the lattice part is expressed by the βT³ term at the temperature
much below the Debye temperature $\Theta_{\rm{D}}$ and the electronic
specific heat is assumed to be the γT term–i.e.,

C_(p)/T = γ + βT².
(5)

From the C(T)/T versus T² plot, the γ and β values of both compounds
were obtained to be 5.9 mJ/mol$\rm\,K^{2}$ and 2.7 mJ/mol$\rm\,K^{4}$
for Bi₂Pd₃S₂ and 8.3 mJ/mol$\rm\,K^{2}$ and 4.0 mJ/mol$\rm\,K^{4}$ for
Bi₂Pd₃Se₂. The values of $\Theta_{\rm{D}}$ were then calculated to be
170 K (Bi₂Pd₃S₂) and 150 K (Bi₂Pd₃Se₂) using the formula

$$\Theta_{\rm{D}}=\bigg{(}\frac{12nR\pi^{4}}{5\beta}\bigg{)}^{1/3},$$
(6)

where R=8.314 J/mol$\rm\,K$ and the number of elements per formula unit,
n=7, for both compounds. The value of γ for Bi₂Pd₃S₂ is small as
compared with those for the parkerite-type superconductors Bi₂Ni₃S₂
(11.4 mJ/mol$\rm\,K^{2}$), Bi₂Ni₃Se₂ (12.2 mJ/mol$\rm\,K^{2}$) (Ref. 8),
and Bi₂Pd₃Se₂ (8.3 mJ/mol$\rm\,K^{2}$), indicative of a weak
electron-phonon coupling. No superconducting transition down to 0.35 K
for Bi₂Pd₃S₂ would result from a weak electron-phonon coupling.

For Bi₂Pd₃Se₂, the electron-phonon coupling constant
$\lambda_{\rm{e-ph}}$ is estimated from the McMillan equation for the
superconducting transition temperature[14]

$$T_{c}=\frac{\Theta_{\rm{D}}}{1.45}{\rm exp}\bigg{[}-\frac{1.04(1+\lambda_{\rm{ e-ph}})}{\lambda_{\rm{e-ph}}-\mu^{*}(1+0.62\lambda_{\rm{e-ph}})}\bigg{]},$$
(7)

where the Coulomb pseudopotential μ^(*) is assumed to be 0.13
empirically. The value of $\lambda_{\rm{e-ph}}$ is determined to be
0.49. This small $\lambda_{\rm{e-ph}}$ value indicates that Bi₂Pd₃Se₂ is
classified into a weak electron-phonon coupling superconductor.

The electronic specific heat $C_{\rm{e}}$ was obtained by subtracting
the lattice contribution estimated earlier from the total specific heat,
and the temperature dependence of $C_{\rm{e}}$ for Bi₂Pd₃Se₂ is plotted
in Fig. 6. Below the superconducting transition temperature, the
temperature dependences of the electronic specific heat cannot be fitted
with a T^(n) function, but it follows the exponential decay as seen in
Fig. 6. These fitting results show that this compound is an s-wave
superconductor. The normalized specific heat jump value
$\Delta C/\gamma T_{c}^{\rm{mid,C}}$ is 1.15 for Bi₂Pd₃Se₂. This value
is smaller than 1.43 expected from the BCS theory[15] and is close to
that of isomorphic Bi₂Ni₃Se₂
($\Delta C/\gamma T_{c}^{\rm{mid,C}}$=1.16). These small

Figure 6: Temperature dependence of the electronic specific heat for
Bi₂Pd₃Se₂. The solid lines show fitting results using exponential
functions.

jump values are comparable with those of weak-coupling BCS
superconductors having an anisotropic-energy gap like Nb₃X₄
(X=S,Se).[16, 17] The small $\Delta C/\gamma T_{c}^{\rm mid,C}$ might be
attributable to such an anisotropy of crystal structures for Bi₂M₃Se₂
(M=Ni,Pd). A detailed discussion of the anisotropic-energy gap will
require studies of specific heat measurements in a magnetic field using
a single crystal.

The thermodynamic critical field μ₀H_(c)(T) can be obtained as a
function of temperature using the specific heat data in both the normal
and superconducting states. The difference in entropy ΔS(T) between the
normal and superconducting states was obtained through the thermodynamic
relation

$$\Delta S(T)=S_{n}(T)-S_{s}(T)=\gamma T-\int_{0}^{T}\frac{C_{\rm es}(T^{\prime}) }{T^{\prime}}dT^{\prime}\,,$$
(8)

where S_(n)(T) and S_(s)(T) are the entropies in the normal and
superconducting states and $C_{\rm es}$ is the electronic specific heat
in the superconducting state. The $C_{\rm es}$ below 0.4 K is
extrapolated by the exponential curve. μ₀H_(c)(T) was obtained by the
relationship[18]

$$G_{n}(T)-G_{s}(T)=\int_{T}^{T_{c}}\frac{\Delta S(T^{\prime})}{T^{\prime}}dT^{ \prime}=\frac{\mu_{0}V_{m}H_{c}(T)^{2}}{2},$$
(9)

where V_(m) is the molar volume. The calculated value of μ₀H_(c)(0) is
5.72 mT for Bi₂Pd₃Se₂. On the other hand, the BCS theory predicts the
magnitude of μ₀H_(c)(0) by the relation

$$\mu_{0}H_{c}(T)=\left[\frac{0.47\mu_{0}\gamma T_{c}^{2}}{V_{\rm m}}\right]^{1/ 2}.$$
(10)

From the obtained γ, $V_{\rm m}$, and T_(c) for Bi₂Ni₃Se₂, μ₀H_(c)(0) is
calculated to be 5.96 mT, and this value is close to the values from Eq.
(9). Moreover, the penetration depth λ(0), GL parameter κ(0), and lower
critical field at 0 K μ₀H_(c1)(0) are estimated from the relations[15]

$$\mu_{0}H_{c}(0)=\frac{\Phi_{0}}{2\sqrt{2}\pi\lambda(0)\xi_{\rm GL}(0)},$$
(11)

$$\kappa(0)=\frac{\lambda(0)}{\xi_{\rm GL}(0)}\,,$$
(12)

$$\mu_{0}H_{c1}=\frac{\mu_{0}H_{c}}{\sqrt{2}\kappa}\mbox{ln}\ \kappa.$$
(13)

By using the value of μ₀H_(c)(0) obtained from Eq. (9), λ(0), κ(0), and
μ₀H_(c1)(0) are estimated to be 12 590 A, 38.9, and 0.38 mT,
respectively. These superconducting parameters are summarized in Table
2. The value of κ(0) strongly suggest that Bi₂Pd₃Se₂ is a typical
type-II superconductor.

## IV Summary

We have investigated the transport properties of two ternary-metal-rich
chalcogenides Bi₂Pd₃X₂ (X=S,Se). It is found that Bi₂Pd₃Se₂ is a
superconductor with a critical temperature T_(c) of about 0.9 K, while
Bi₂Pd₃S₂ is a normal metal down to 0.35 K. The μ₀H_(c2)(0) values is
estimated to be about 315 mT from the midpoint temperatures of
electrical resistivity under the magnetic fields. From specific heat
measurements, γ, $\Theta_{\rm D}$, and ΔC/γT_(c) for Bi₂Pd₃Se₂ are 8.3
mJ/mol K², 150 K, and 5.9 mJ/mol K², respectively, and γ and
$\Theta_{\rm D}$ for Bi₂Pd₃S₂ are 5.9 mJ/mol K² and 170 K, respectively.
Study of the specific heat in the superconducting state of Bi₂Pd₃Se₂
suggests that Bi₂Pd₃Se₂ is categorized as a weak-coupling BCS, s-wave
superconductor. The small specific heat jump is suggestive of
anisotropic superconductivity.

## References

* [1] L. Chen and J. D. Corbett, J. Am. Chem. Soc. **125**, 1170
(2003). * [2] A. I. Baranov, A. A. Isaeva, L. Kloo, and B. A. Popovkin,
Inorg. Chem. **42**, 6667 (2003). * [3] B. Harbrecht and H. F. Franzen,
J. Less Common Met. **113**, 349 (1985). * [4] M. A. Peacock and J.
McAndrew, Am. Mineral. **35**, 425 (1950). * [5] M. Zabel, S. Wandinger,
and K.-J. Range, Z. Naturforsch. B **34**, 238 (1979). * [6] S.
Natarajan and G. V. S. Rao, J. Less Common Met. **138**, 215 (1988). *
[7] A. I. Baranov, A. V. Olenev, and B. A. Popovkin, Russ. Chem. Bull.
**50**, 353 (2001). * [8] T. Sakamoto, M. Wakeshima, and Y. Hinatsu, J.
Phys.: Condens. Matter **18**, 4417 (2006). * [9] T. Sakamoto, M.
Wakeshima, Y. Hinatsu, and K. Matsuhira, Phys. Rev. B **75**, 060503(R)
(2007). * [10] F. Izumi and T. Ikeda, Mater. Sci. Forum **321-324**, 198
(2000).

  ------------------------------------- ------------- -------------
                                          Bi₂Pd₃S₂      Bi₂Pd₃Se₂
          $V_{\rm m}$ (m³/mol)           8.62 × 10⁻⁵   9.09 × 10⁻⁵
              γ (mJ/mol K²)                5.9(1)        8.3(1)
          $\Theta_{\rm D}$ (K)             170(1)        150(1)
         $T_{c}^{\rm mid,R}$ (K)                          0.96
         $T_{c}^{\rm mid,C}$ (K)                          0.81
   $\Delta C/\gamma T_{c}^{\rm mid,C}$                    1.15
            μ₀H_(c2)(0) (mT)                               315
             μ₀H_(c)(0) (mT)                              5.72
            μ₀H_(c1)(0) (mT)                              0.38
          $\xi_{\rm GL}(0)$ (Å)                            323
                λ(0) (Å)                                  12590
                  κ(0)                                    38.9
  ------------------------------------- ------------- -------------

Table 2: Superconducting and normal-state properties for Bi₂Pd₃X₂
(X=S,Se).

* (11) A. Clauss, Naturwissenschaften **64**, 145 (1977). * (12) R. P.
Huebener, Phys. Rev. **146**, 490 (1966). * (13) N. R. Werthamer, E.
Helfand, and P. C. Hohenberg, Phys. Rev. **147**, 295 (1966). * (14) P.
H. Pan, D. K. Finnemore, A. J. Bevolo, H. R. Shanks, B. J. Beaudry, F.
A. Schmidt, and G. C. Danielson, Phys. Rev. B **21**, 2809 (1980). *
(15) M. Tinkham, _Introduction to Superconductivity_, 2nd ed.
(McGraw-Hill, Singapore, 1996). * (16) H. Okamoto and Y. Ishihara, Phys.
Rev. B **48**, 3927 (1993). * (17) H. Okamoto, H. Taniguti, and Y.
Ishihara, Phys. Rev. B **53**, 384 (1996). * (18) W. L. McMillan, Phys.
Rev. **167**, 331 (1968).
