Anisotropic resistivities of single-crystal Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O_(8 + δ) with
different oxygen content

X. H. Chen

Structural Research Laboratory and Department of Physics, University of
Science and Technology of China,

Hefei 230026, People’s Republic of China

M. Yu

K. Q. Ruan

S. Y. Li

Department of Physics, University of Science and Technology of China,
Hefei 230026, People’s Republic of China

Z. Gui

G. C. Zhang

Department of Chemistry, University of Science and Technology of China,
Hefei 230026, People’s Republic of China

L. Z. Cao

Department of Physics, University of Science and Technology of China,
Hefei 230026, People’s Republic of China

Received 11 May 1998

###### Abstract

The in-plane resistivity ρ_(ab)(T) and the out-of-plane ρ_(c)(T) have
been extensively measured for the pure single-crystal
Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O_(8 + δ) (Bi2212) annealed at different oxygen pressure. The
ρ_(c)(T) and anisotropy [ρ_(c)(T)/ρ_(ab)(T)] decreases rapidly with
increasing carrier concentration. It is found that the out-of-plane
resistivity decreases linearly with temperature down to about 120 K for
the overdoped sample; its resistivity anisotropy is a weak temperature
dependence. In the ab plane, the anisotropy is very weak and nearly
independent of temperature. The data of ρ_(c)(T) and ρ_(c)(T)/ρ_(ab)(T)
are well fitted by the bipolaron theory proposed by Alexandrov and Mott.
[S0163-1829(98)05945-1]

A distinctive property for the high-T_(c) layered cuprates is their
extremely anisotropic resistivity at temperatures above the
superconducting transition temperature T_(c). In the underdoped regime,
the c-axis resistivity has a "nonmetallic" temperature dependence while
the in-plane resistivity is metallic in behavior.[1; 2; 3] The
resistivity anisotropy ρ_(c)/ρ_(ab) and c-axis resistivity ρ_(c)
decrease systematically with increasing carrier concentration.[1; 4] In
the overdoped regime, the c-axis resistivity ρ_(c)(T) also shows a
metallic behavior,[5; 6] especially the c-axis resistivity of highly
oxygenated YBa₂Cu₃O_(6 + x) (x>0.93) decreases linearly with temperature
down to the superconducting transition temperature.[5; 7] The
resistivity anisotropy in overdoped La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄ (x∼0.34) is
temperature independent as expected of an anisotropic three-dimensional
metal.[4; 6] These are strong evidence that the transition into the
"overdoped" regime involves a crossover from two-dimensional
superconducting to three-dimensional metallic behavior. In
Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O_(8 + δ), (Bi2212) however, the resistivity anisotropy
ρ_(c)/ρ_(ab) is as high as 10⁵,[3; 8] which is significantly larger than
those of other layered cuprates. The insulating trend in ρ_(c)(T) is
observable as high as 200 K, even in the overdoped regime.[9; 10] An
important issue is whether the metallic behavior or T-linear dependence
of the out-of-plane resistivity takes place in the overdoped sample of
Bi2212. A further issue concerns the intrinsic behavior of the
out-of-plane resistivity for the layered cuprates. Many models for the
out-of-plane conduction have been proposed, however no consensus has
been achieved so far.[11] Recently, a temperature linear dependence of
the c-axis resistivity has been observed in the overdoped sample of
Pb-doped Bi2212, and its magnitude is reduced by four orders and is
nearly the same magnitude as that of in-plane resistivity.[12] It is
anomalous that the anisotropy is too small, even much less than that of
highly oxygenated YBa₂Cu₃O_(6 + x) and overdoped La_(1.66)Sr_(0.34)CuO₄.
However, less work is made for the c-axis resistivity of the overdoped
Bi2212 sample. It is because the heavy overdoped sample is difficult to
obtain.

To clarify further the c-axis conduction, we have measured in detail the
in-plane and the out-of-plane resistivity for more than twenty crystals
of Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O_(8 + δ) with a different oxygen content using the
Montgomery method.[13; 14] We will demonstrate that the in-plane
resistivity of Bi2212 is nearly linear with temperature at high
temperatures, but the slight deviation from linearity occurred at about
190 K, which is believed to arise from the pseudogap opening for the
underdoped crystal. It is observed that the out-of-plane resistivity is
metallic above 120 K, and the anisotropy is weakly temperature dependent
for the overdoped sample. The out-of-plane resistivity and the
anisotropy is well explained by the bipolaron proposed by Alexandrov and
Mott.

High-purity single crystals of Bi2212 were grown by self-flux using CuO
as flux. The crystals used to measure resistivity had a size of 1.5
mm×0.6 mm×5 μ m with the shortest dimension along the c axis. The
thickness of the crystal was determined by a scanning electron
microscope. To obtain the crystals with the different oxygen content,
the as-grown single crystals were annealed at 500 ^(∘)C and the
different oxygen partial pressures of 10⁻⁷∼ 10² atm. Electrical contacts
of less than 2 Ω resistance were established by soldering the copper
leads onto the sample surface on which pure silver was evaporated. The
Montgomery contact configuration is shown in the inset of Fig. 1 and
Fig. 2. Instead of the point contact in the original Montgomery method,
we extended the contacts along the edges of the samples to minimize the
distortion effect of finite contact size along the c axis. The obtained
crystals were characterized by x-ray dif fraction with Cu _K_a
radiation. Lattice parameters for single crystals were refined using the
(0,0,1) Bragg peaks over the θ range.

X-ray diffraction shows that the crystals were of the proper Bi2212
phase, and grown preferentially along the c axis. There is no indication
of the presence of the secondary phase. It is found that the _c_-axis
parameter of crystal increases with decreasing annealing oxygen
pressure, as is listed in Table 1. It arises from the increase of excess
oxygen incorporated between the Bi2O3 double layers, being consistent
with the previous reports.[15, 16] To a certain extent, the change of
the c axis is believed to be a token of the change in carrier
concentration because the _c_-axis parameter is sensitive to oxygen
content.

Figure 1 shows the temperature dependence of the anisotropic in-plane
resistivity for the as-grown single crystal. A schematic of the
Montgomery contact configuration is shown in the inset of Fig. 1. It is
found that the normal state resistivity behavior along the _a_-axis and
_b_-axis directions is nearly the same. The in-plane anisotropy
[ρ_(a)(T)/ρ_(b)(T)] is also shown in the inset of Fig. 1. The
resistivity ρ_(a)(T)/ρ_(b)(T)) is about 1.5-2.0 and temperature
independent for the as-grown crystal and the crystals annealed at
pressures of 100 and 10⁻⁷ atm, respectively, which is consistent with
the previous report,[17] suggesting a common scattering mechanism for
_a_-axis and _b_-axis transport. Therefore, we will consider the
transport along the a axis and the b axis to be isotropic for the entire
sample. It is worth pointing out that the transport along the a and b
directions shows a characteristic deviation from linearity at the same
temperature in underdoped samples.

Figure 2 shows the temperature dependence of in-plane resistivity
ρ_(ab)(T) for Bi2Sr2CaCu2O8+_δ_ single crystals annealed at different
oxygen pressure. T_(c) changes systematically with the annealing oxygen
pressure. Here, we do not determine the value of the oxygen content
because it is very difficult to accurately determine it for single
crystal. However, the change of the _c_-axis parameter may be considered
as a token of the change of oxygen content. It is noted that the
decrease of _c_-axis parameter corresponds to the change of T_(c) from
the underdoped to overdoped regime. The superconducting transition
temperature changes from 76 K of the underdoped crystal to 78 K of the
overdoped crystal. With increasing annealing oxygen pressure, the value
of ρ_(ab)(T) and the slope dρ_(ab)/dT decrease. It indicates that the
carrier concentration in the crystals increases with increasing
annealing oxygen pressure, corresponding to the decrease of the _c_-axis
parameter. For the single crystals annealed under oxygen pressures of
10⁻⁷ and 10⁻⁵ atm, the resistivity ρ_(ab) deviates from high-temperature
_T_-linear behavior at a characteristic temperature _T_* far above T_(c)
, where _T_* is 190 and 160 K, respectively. This is believed to be
evidence for the pseudogap (or spin gap) in the underdoped sample, which
has been explained to be due to a decrease in spin scattering caused by
the opening of the spin gap.[18] For the single crystals as-grown and
annealed under 10⁻³ atm, a typical _T_-linear behavior is observed and
the T_(c) is about 90 K, which is transport characteristic for the
optimally doped sample. A T² component is observed in the single
crystals annealed under oxygen pressures of 10 and 100 atm, indicating
the transport behavior of the overdoped sample.

The temperature dependence of out-of-plane resistivity ρ_(ab)(T) for
Bi2Sr2CaCu2O8+_δ_ single crystals annealed at different oxygen pressure
is shown in Fig. 3. A systematic evolution of ρ_(c)(T) with reduction of
the annealing oxygen pressure in these crystals is observed. That is,
the magnitude of ρ_(c) increases rapidly. For the optimally doped and
underdoped crystals, the resistivity temperature dependence dρ_(c)(T)/dT
is negative in the measuring temperature range between the
superconducting transition temperature (T_(c)) and

Figure 2: The temperature dependence of in-plane resistivity ρ_(ab)(T)
for Bi2Sr2CaCu2O8+_δ_ single crystals annealed at different oxygen
pressure; the crystals annealed at oxygen pressure of 10⁻⁷ atm: crosses;
10⁻⁵ atm: down triangles; 10⁻³ atm: up triangles; 1 atm: diamonds; 10
atm: squares; 100 atm: circles. Inset: schematic of the electric contact
configuration.

Figure 1: The temperature dependence of anisotropic in-plane resistivity
for the as-grown single crystal, and the resistivity ratio
ρ_(a)(T)/ρ_(b)(T) (inset) for the as-grown single crystal (circles) and
cystals annealed at the pressure of 100 atm (up triangles) and 10⁻⁷ atm
(squares), respectively. Inset: schematic of the electric contact
configuration.

300 K. For the overdoped crystals, the dρ_(c)(T)/dT is positive at high
temperature, while negative at low temperature. In between, ρ_(c)(T) has
a minimum. The temperature $T_{\rm min}$ corresponding to the minimum
ρ_(c) is about 120 K for the crystal annealed at the oxygen pressure of
100 atm. This feature is shown rather clearly for the crystal annealed
at the oxygen pressure of 100 atm by replotting the ρ_(c) vs T curve in
the inset of Fig. 3.

Figure 4 shows the temperature dependence of the anisotropy ρ_(c)/ρ_(ab)
for the same crystals as in Fig. 2. The anisotropy is rather larger,
which is consistent with the previous report.[3] The anisotropy
increases as the annealing oxygen pressure decreases. This suggests that
the mechanisms governing the transport property along and perpendicular
to the CuO₂ plane are different. The temperature dependence of
anisotropy becomes weak with increasing annealing oxygen pressure. This
is consistent with what is expected since there is strong evidence that
a crossover from 2D superconducting to 3D metallic behavior occurs when
La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄ is doped into the nonsuperconducting overdoped
regime (x> 0.25).[4, 6]

There have been several theoretical models aiming to elucidate the
temperature dependence of c-axis transport ρ_(c)(T),[11] for example
interlayer scattering or phonon (impurity) assisted tunneling, the
’confinement’ theory proposed by Anderson.[19] In Ref. [9], Watanabe _et
al._ have discussed the theoretical models mentioned above. Here, we
will interpret our experimental data using the bipolaron theory proposed
by Alexandrov and Mott.[20, 21] In their theory, polarons dominate in
the c-axis transport at intermediate and high temperatures because they
are much lighter in the c direction than bipolarons. At the same time,
the polaron contribution to the in-plane transport is small at any
temperature due to their low density compared with the bipolaron one.
The normal state out-of-plane resistivity ρ_(c)(T) is given by the
formula[20, 21]

$$\frac{\rho_{c}(T,x)}{\rho_{ab}(T,x)}=Ax^{1/2}e^{\frac{\Delta(T,x)}{2T}},$$
(1)

where A is constant, x is the doping level, and Δ is the bipolaron
binding energy.

Figure 4: The temperature dependence of the anisotropy ρ_(c)/ρ_(ab) for
the same crystals as in Fig. 2 and Fig. 3; the crystals annealed at
oxygen pressure of 10⁻⁷ atm: crosses; 10⁻⁵ atm: down triangles; 10⁻³
atm: up triangles; 1 atm: diamonds; 10 atm: squares; 100 atm: circles.
The solid curves are fits of ρ_(c)(T)/ρ_(ab)(T) to Eq. (1).

Figure 3: The temperature dependence of out-of-plane resistivity
ρ_(ab)(T) for Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O_(8 + δ) single crystals annealed at different
oxygen pressure; the crystals annealed at oxygen pressure of 10⁻⁷ atm:
crosses; 10⁻⁵ atm: down triangles; 10⁻³ atm: up triangles; 1 atm:
diamonds; 10 atm: circles. The solid curves are fits of ρ_(c)(T) data to
Eq. (3). The ρ_(c)(T) vs T curve for the crystal annealed at the oxygen
pressure of 100 atm is replotted in the inset to show more clearly the
temperature behavior.

$$\rho_{ab}(T) = \frac{m^{2}Cv_{0}}{4e^{2}}\frac{T + \sigma_{b}T^{2}}{n - n_{L} + bn_{L}T},$$

where C = C_(ac) + n_(L)C_(in) and σ_(b) = αe²bn_(L)/m²C is the relative
boson-boson scattering cross section, n_(L), n are the total number of
localized bosons and bosons per unit cell, respectively. Therefore, we
can obtain the expression of ρ_(c)(T),

ρ_(c)(T) = Be^(Δ(T, x)/2T)T + σ_(b)T²/1 + c T,

where B = m²Cv₀/4e²(n − n_(L)) and c = bn_(L)/(n − n_(L)).

We fit the experimental data in Fig. 3 and Fig. 4 by using the above
expressions of ρ_(c)(T) and ρ_(c)(T)/ρ_(ab)(T), respectively. In the
fitting, Δ is considered to be temperature independent. The fitting
curves are shown in Fig. 3 and Fig. 4 as solid lines, and the parameters
obtained are listed in Table 1. It is found that the experimental
results can be well described by the bipolaron theory. The Δ obtained by
fitting anisotropy [ρ_(c)(T)/ρ_(ab)(T)] data using Eq. (1) is nearly the
same as that obtained by fitting the c-axis resistivity ρ(T) using Eq.
(3), but the Δ obtained from Eq. (1) is two times more than that
obtained from Eq. (3) for the overdoped sample annealed at the oxygen
pressure of 100 atm. It should be pointed out that the anisotropy data
of the overdoped samples cannot be well reproduced by Eq. (1). It
indicates that our experimental result is consistent with that predicted
by the bipolaron theory for the underdoped and optimal samples. From
Table 1, it is found that the fitting parameters to the experimental
data of the sample annealed at the oxygen pressure of 1 atm seem to be
anomalous compared with that for the other samples. The Ax^(1/2)
increases with increasing annealing oxygen pressure. It indicates that
the carrier concentration increases with the annealing oxygen pressure,
which is expected. The Δ increases with decreasing annealing oxygen
pressure; that is, the bipolaron binding energy shifts to high
temperature with the decrease of carrier concentration. Alexandrov _et
al._ expected a strong dependence of the binding energy, Δ = Δ(T, x), on
doping because of the screening.[21] The change of the bipolaron binding
energy with doping is consistent with that of the ’spin gap’
temperature. In Ref. [21], the Δ has been believed to be normal-state
gap (or the "spin gap" in the uniform spin susceptibility), but the
obtained Δ is not consistent with the "spin gap" temperature in Fig. 2.
It suggests that the bipolaron binding energy might not be considered as
the ’spin gap." But the bipolaron theory successfully accounts for the
deviation from linearity in in-plane resistivity due to the opening of
the pseudogap.[20] One can see from Table 1 that the parameter c
increases with doping, different from the case of YBa₂Cu₃O_(7.δ) in
which both the number of localized bosons and the number of extended
bosons increase with doping, but bn_(L)/(n − n_(L)) decreases with
doping.[20]

It has been reported that numerical fits were carried out using the
functional form ρ_(c)(T) = (a/T)exp (Δ/T) + bT + c, where a, b, c, and Δ
are fitting constant.[9, 10] It is found that the experimental results
of the underdoped and optimally doped samples can be well reproduced
with the above formula and the parameter b was set to zero. But the
experimental data of the overdoped samples cannot be fitted by setting
b = 0. This is consistent with the previous report,[10] suggesting that
a T-linear contribution to ρ_(c)(T) has to be added. While its ρ_(c)(T)
can be well fitted by the bipolaron theory for a whole doping level, the
anisotropy data of the overdoped samples cannot be well reproduced by
Eq. (1).

In summary, an intensive study of the anisotropy (ρ_(ab) and ρ_(c)) on
the single crystals Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O_(8 + δ) annealed at the different
oxygen pressure was made. The spin gap development with carrier
concentration has been observed in in-plane resistivity. The ρ_(c)(T)
and the anisotropy [ρ_(c)(T)/ρ_(ab)(T)] can be well reproduced by the
bipolaron theory proposed by Alexandrov and Mott. The ρ_(c)(T) and the
anisotropy [ρ_(c)(T)/ρ_(ab)(T)] decrease with increasing carrier
concentration. There exists a minimum out-of-plane resistivity for the
overdoped samples; ρ_(c)(T) has a positive slope at the high
temperature. The anisotropy [ρ_(c)(T)/ρ_(ab)(T)] has a weak temperature
dependence for the overdoped samples, which is consistent with that
predicated by the bipolaron theory.

## References

* [1] T. Ito, H. Takagi, S. Ishibashi, T. Ido, and S. Uchida, Nature
(London) **350**, 596 (1991). * [2] S. W. Tozer, A. W. Kleinsasser, T.
Penney, D. Kaiser, and F. Holtzberg, Phys. Rev. Lett. **59**, 1768
(1987). * [3] S. Martin, A. T. Fiory, R. M. Fleming, L. F. Schneemeyer,
and J. V. Waszczak, Phys. Rev. Lett. **60**, 2194 (1988). * [4] H. L.
Kao, J. Kwo, H. Takagi, and B. Batlogg, Phys. Rev. B **48**, 9925
(1993). * [5] T. A. Friedmann, M. W. Rabin, J. Giapintzakis, J. P. Rice,
and D. M. Ginsberg, Phys. Rev. B **42**, 6217 (1990). * [6] Y. Nakamura
and S. Uchida, Phys. Rev. B **47**, 8369 (1993). * [7] L. Forro, V.
Ilakovac, J. R. Cooper, C. Ayache, and J. Y. Herry, Phys. Rev. B **46**,
6626 (1992). * [8] S. Martin, A. T. Fiory, R. M. Fleming, L. F.
Schneemeyer, and J. V. Waszczak, Phys. Rev. B **41**, 846 (1990). * [9]
Y. F. Yan, P. Matl, J. M. Harris, and N. P. Ong, Phys. Rev. B **52**,
751 (1995). * [10] T. Watanabe, T. Fujii, and A. Matsuda, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **79**, 2113 (1997). * [11] S. L. Cooper, and K. E. Gray, in
_Physical Properties of High Temperature Superconductors IV_, edited by
D. M. Ginsberg (World Scientific, Singapore, 1994), p. 61. * [12] L.
Winkeler, S. Sadewasser, B. Beschoten, H. Frank, F. Nouvertne, and G.
Guntherodt, Physica C **265**, 194 (1996). * [13] H. C. Montgomery, J.
Appl. Phys. **42**, 2971 (1971). * [14] B. F. Logan, S. O. Rice, and R.
F. Wick, J. Appl. Phys. **42**, 2975 (1971). * [15] D. B. Mitzi, L. W.
Lombardo, A. Kapitulnik, S. S. Laderman, and R. D. Jacowitz, Phys. Rev.
B **41**, 6564 (1990). * [16] J.H.P. Emman, S.K.J. Lenzowski, J.H.J.
Dalderop, and V.A.M. Brabers, J. Cryst. Growth **118**, 477 (1992). *
[17] S. Martin, A. T. Fiory, R. M. Fleming, G. P. Espinosa, and A. S.
Cooper, Appl. Phys. Lett. **54**, 72 (1989). * [18] T. Ito _et al._,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **70**, 3995 (1993). * [19] P. W. Anderson and Z. Zou,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **60**, 132 (1988); P. W. Anderson, Science **256**,
1526 (1992). * [20] A.S. Alexandrov, A.M. Bratkovsky, and N.F. Mott,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **72**, 1734 (1994). * [21] A.S. Alexandrov, V.V.
Kabanov, and N. F. Mott, Phys. Rev. Lett. **77**, 4796 (1996).
