# Structure and superconductivity of HgBa2Ca2Cu3O8+8

J. L. Wagner

1 B. A. Hunter

2 Science and Technology Center for Superconductivity, Argonne National
Laboratory, Argonne, Illinois 604392

D. G. Hinks

3 J. D. Jorgensen

Materials Science Division, Argonne National Laboratory, Argonne,
Illinois 604392

15 August 1994

###### Abstract

We have investigated the structure, defect concentration, and
superconducting properties of HgBa2Ca2Cu3O8+8 by neutron powder
diffraction, thermogravimetric analysis, and ac susceptibility. Samples
with three oxygen contents and _T_c’s ranging from 135 to 94 K, obtained
through different annealing conditions, were studied. Two defect sites
were observed in all samples. The concentration of defect oxygen atoms
located at a site in the center of the Hg-O8 plane, is found to vary
from 0.18(2) to 0.10(2) oxygen atoms per formula unit as _T_c decreases
from 135 to 94 K. An additional defect, which we interpret as oxygen
atoms associated with the substitution of Cu on the Hg site, is found to
have a fixed concentration of  0.09(2) oxygen atoms per formula unit.

## I Introduction

The discovery of superconductivity at 94 K in HgBa2CuO4+8,[1] and
subsequently higher _T_c’s (up to 135 K) in higher members of the
HgBa2Ca_n_-1 Cu_n_O2_n_+2+d series of compounds,[2, 3] has generated a
tremendous amount of interest in these new Hg-based materials. The n =
1, 2, and 3 Hg compounds possess the highest _T_c’s of any known single,
double, and triple CuO2 layer compounds–98, 128, and 135 K,
respectively. Under pressure, _T_c’s are found to increase by more than
20 K in these compounds, to temperatures exceeding 150 K at 10 GPa for
HgBa2Ca2Cu3O8+8.[4, 5]

Structurally, the Hg-based compounds are analogs for the
single-thallium-layer series of compounds, differing only in the oxygen
content within the Hg(Tl)-oxygen layer. Defects within the Hg-O8 layers
are found to determine the _T_c’s of these materials. Here, d is the
total excess oxygen which can be distributed over more than one
crystallographic defect site. X-ray and neutron-diffraction studies[1,
6, 7] on HgBa2CuO4+8 (Hg-1201) have established the variable doping
mechanism to be the incorporation of oxygen at the [1/2,1/2,0] site. For
samples with _T_c =  95 K, 0.06 oxygen atoms per formula unit are found
at this interstitial site as determined by neutron-diffraction
studies.[6, 7] In the study by Wagner _et al._,[6]T_(c) was found to
decrease to 59 K, as the amount of oxygen at this site was reduced to
zero. This decrease in oxygen content was also independently determined
by thermogravimetric analysis (TGA) measurement on the same single-phase
samples used in the diffraction work. Evidence was found that doping is
also provided by an additional complex defect involving the partial
substitution of copper for mercury coupled with the presence of oxygen
on the [1/2,0,0] chain site. The occupancy of this second oxygen site
was found to be  0.09 atoms per formula unit (resulting in a total
defect oxygen concentration of d = 0.15), and remained constant during
low-temperature annealing. In light of band-structure calculations
suggesting that self-doping is not present in HgBa2CuO4+8,[8] this
additional defect is of special importance. The existence of this defect
is necessary to account for the relatively high _T_c of  59 K in a
sample where the [1/2,1/2,0] site is found to be unoccupied. It should
be noted that Chmaissem _et al._[7] found no evidence for this complex
defect in their Hg-1201 sample. They found 0.06 excess oxygen atoms
solely on the [1/2,1/2,0] site. However, additional support for a defect
associated with metal-ion substitution comes from the different _T_c’s
for Hg-1201 samples reported in the literature. While maximum _T_c’s are
usually achieved for fully oxygenated samples, Itoh _et al._[9] have
reported maximum _T_c’s obtained under reducing conditions. Oxidation
actually degraded the superconducting properties of the samples used in
that study. More subtle variations in maximum _T_c’s (differing by as
much as 5 K) were observed for samples annealed in 1 atm of oxygen by
Morosin _et al._[10] These results suggest that oxygen content alone
cannot fully account for the different _T_c’s for samples annealed in
oxygen. The existence of an additional doping defect could explain these
differences.

Neutron-diffraction studies[11-14] on HgBa2CaCu2O6+8 (Hg-1212) have also
established oxygen on the [1/2,1/2,0] site as the variable doping
mechanism in this compound. The amount of oxygen on the [1/2,1/2,0] site
has been refined for various Hg-1212 samples with different _T_c’s. In
these studies, no second defect involving oxygen on the [1/2,0,0] site
has been found. The maximum _T_c for this compounds is  128 K and
corresponds to d  0.22.[11, 12]_T_c is found to be reduced to 92 K for d
 0.08 (Ref. [11]) and to 104 K for d  0.35,[13] indicating that it is
possible to both underdope and overdog this compound. Hg-1212 samples
with _T_c’s intermediate to these extreme values have also been
measured,[14] with values of d = 0.22 and 0.35 for _T_c’s of 112 and 120
K, respectively. Although these powder neutron-diffraction studies did
not detect any appreciable amount of the additional chain oxygen defect,
Radaelli _et al_.[11] did report a 4

Structural studies of the defects in HgBa₂Ca₂Cu₃O_(8 + δ) (Hg-1223) are
somewhat less in number. Neutron powder-diffraction data by Chmaissem
_et al_. on a Hg-1223 sample with a T_(c) of 133 K reports a value of
0.41 oxygen atoms on the interstitial [1/2,1/2,0] site.[16] No evidence
for additional defects was reported. This is in contrast to recent
x-ray-diffraction results of Finger _et al_. on single crystals of
Hg-1223, suggesting a substitution of more than 0.10 Cu atoms on the Hg
site.[15] Unfortunately, the quality of the single crystal used was
insufficient to allow a precise determination of the individual defect
oxygen concentrations, but results indicate the total excess oxygen (δ)
to be less than 0.35. These studies differ in both the nature and amount
of defects present in Hg-1223. Furthermore, there have been no reports
of the variation of defect concentrations for samples with differing
T_(c)’s as have been reported for Hg-1201 and Hg-1212.

In this paper we present the results of neutron powder-diffraction
studies on three different Hg-1223 samples with T_(c)’s varying from 135
to 94 K. Two distinct defects, shown as O(4) and O(5) in Fig. 1, are
found in all samples studied. The occupancy of the interstitial site,
O(4), varies from 0.18(2) to 0.10(2) as T_(c) is changed from 135 to 94
K. An additional oxygen defect [O(5)] and a deficiency of scattering
from the Hg site, as found in Hg-1201, was also observed. The occupancy
of O(5) was found to be the same for all samples studied, ∼0.09, and did
not vary upon reduction or oxygenation of the samples. The copper-apical
oxygen distance was found to be unusually long and the copper-oxygen
planes are relatively free from buckling, as compared to other known
three-layer cuprate superconductors.

## 2 Sample synthesis and characterization

The Hg-1223 samples examined in this paper were synthesized directly
from HgO, BaO, CaO, and CuO. BaO and CaO were obtained from the
decomposition of BaCO₃ and CaCO₃ under vacuum at 950 degC; HgO and CuO
were used as purchased (all starting chemicals were 99.99

Samples were characterized by x-ray diffraction and ac susceptibility.
X-ray-diffraction data were taken on a rotating anode source using the
Beno-Knapp technique.[17] ac susceptibility was measured on powdered
samples in a 1 G, 100 Hz field using a Lake Shore Cryotronics model 7000
ac susceptometer.

Figure 2 shows the x-ray powder-diffraction pattern for an
as-synthesized Hg-1223 sample with peaks indexed with the primitive,
tetragonal unit cell. All major peaks in the pattern correspond to
Hg-1223. CaO and Ba₂Cu₃O_(5 + δ) are the main impurity phases; the peaks
corresponding to these phases are marked in Fig. 1. Samples prepared by
this method exhibit typical T_(c)’s of ∼ 125 K.

To investigate the effect of oxygen concentration on superconducting and
structural properties, samples were subjected to various annealing
conditions. Samples A and C were obtained from a single synthesis batch
which

Figure 1: Crystal structure of HgBa₂Ca₂Cu₃O_(8 + δ). The O(4) and O(5)
sites are defects that are partially occupied (see text). Incorporation
of oxygen at the O(4) site proposed to be coupled with Cu substitution
on the Hg site.

was divided into separate 2.5 g samples. Sample A was then annealed in
flowing oxygen at 400 degC and sample C was reduced in flowing Ar at 500
degC. The ac susceptibility data for these samples are shown in Fig. 3.
The oxygenated sample A has a sharp superconducting transition with an
onset _T_c of 135 K and reaches > 95

TGA data in flowing oxygen for sample C (_T_c = 94 K) are shown in Fig.
4. The _T_c measured after heating and cooling the sample to 380 degC in
oxygen was 135 K, identical to that of the oxygenated sample A. This
establishes the reversible nature of _T_c and oxygen content during
low-temperature annealing. The weight gain indicates a difference
between samples A and C of 0.13(2) oxygen atoms per formula unit and
provides an independent measure of the difference in d between the
samples used in the neutron study. The stability of Hg-1223 under
reduction in flowing argon gas was also investigated. The inset in Fig.
4 shows the percent weight loss due to Hg volatility at temperatures
above 500 degC, resulting from the decomposition of Hg-1223.

The weight loss was measured over a 12 h period at each temperature and
varied from less than 0.07

The main impurity phase in our as-made samples, Ba2Cu3O5+8, has an
unknown structure with an incommensurate modulation.[18] Its structure
is also found to change with varying oxygen content d. Therefore, it is
difficult to exactly account for all peaks in the diffraction data for
samples containing even trace quantities of Ba2Cu3O5+8. Samples A and C
contain small amounts ( 5

The results of these annealing experiments suggest that sample A, which
was annealed in 1 atm of oxygen, is optimally doped. Samples B and C,
obtained through reduction, appear to be underdoped. This is consistent
with previous reports on Hg-1223.[10]

Figure 4: TGA plot of weight

Figure 3: ac susceptibility for HgBa2Ca2Cu3O5+8 samples A, B, and C.

## III Neutron Powder Diffraction

Neutron powder-diffraction data on samples A and C were collected on the
General Purpose Powder Diffractometer (GPPD). Sample B was run on the
Special Environment Powder Diffractometer. Both instruments are at
Argonne’s Intense Pulsed Neutron Source (PNS).[22] The samples ( 2.5 g)
were measured in the form of loose powders inside 0.25 in. diam
thin-walled vanadium sample holders. Samples containing Ba2Cu3O5+-_δ_
(_A_ and _C_) were run on the higher resolution GPPD instrument to allow
for easier separation of impurity peaks from the main phase, so that the
impurity peaks could be excluded from the refinement.

The powder-diffraction data were analyzed utilizing the IPNS
time-of-flight Rietveld code.[23] Only data from the high-resolution
backscattering detector banks were used in the refinements. Figure 5
shows a portion of the Rietveld refinement profile for sample A (_T_c =
135 K). Bragg peak widths from all three samples are instrument
resolution limited.

The crystal structure of Hg-1223 has P4/_mmm_ (No. 132) space-group
symmetry. The structure with the atomic sites labeled is shown in
Fig. 1. In the initial refinements, the O(1), O(2), O(3), Ca, Cu(1), and
Cu(2) sites were found to be fully occupied. The occupancies of these
sites were fixed to their nominal values in all subsequent refinements
to achieve optimal sensitivity for other refined parameters.

Of particular interest are the defect occupancies of the interstitial
oxygen sites O(4) at [1/2,1/2,0] and O(5) at [1/2,0,0], and their
relationship to superconductivity. For these sites, occupancies and
thermal parameters could not be refined simultaneously, as is often the
case for defects. Therefore, the isotropic thermal parameters were fixed
at values of 1.0 A2 for all three samples and the occupancies refined.
Attempts to displace O(4) off the [1/2,1/2,0] position within the plane
resulted in position parameters converging back to the high-symmetry
position, indicating that O(4) is located in the center of the Hg-O8
plane. Similarly, the O(5) site was refined to the [1/2,0,0] position.
Refinement models in which the O(5) site was displaced along the z
direction [as was reported for Hg-1201 (Ref. [6]]) were not
statistically favored over the model with this atom in the [1/2,0,0]
position.

For sample B, the impurity phases of CaO (6

Values for the defect oxygen concentration refined in samples A and C
were found to be dependent on the way than Ba2Cu3O5+-_δ_ was handled in
the refinements. This dependence shows that the presence of this
structurally unknown phase introduces systematic errors that are
strongly correlated with the defect oxygen concentration in the
analysis, and special care is necessary in these refinements to insure
accuracy. Refining the data without accounting for the contributions
from Ba2Cu3O5+-_δ_ resulted in nearly identical values for total 8 of
0.14(4) and 0.12(4) for samples A and C, respectively. The difference in
these total 8’s is not consistent with TGA results. An "averaged"
structural model[18] was found to poorly account for the intensities of
Ba2Cu3O5+-_δ_ in a multiphase refinement, although it did increase the
difference in total 8 between the two samples. However, the best fits to
the data were achieved by excluding regions of the data where
Ba2Cu3O5+-_δ_ peaks were present. Nine regions that correspond to major
peaks of the powder neutron-diffraction pattern of Ba2Cu3O5+-_δ_
(measured in a separate experiment) were selected for exclusion in the
refinement. These regions appear in Fig. 5 as small segments where the
observed and calculated data have been set to zero. Since Ba2Cu3O5+-_δ_
has a variable oxygen stoichiometry that can lead to subtle shifts in
peak positions, the excluded regions were adjusted individually for the
oxygenated and reduced samples. This was done by examination of the
difference curve for the refinements and excluding only those regions
where peaks due to Ba2Cu3O5+-_δ_ were evident. Care was taken to
minimize the amount of data excluded. The refined values of total 8 in
samples A and C using this refinement strategy were 0.27(4) and 0.18(4),
respectively. These values are consistent with the TGA data. Structural
results reported for samples A and C are for refinements using these
excluded regions.

It is important to check whether the value chosen for the fixed
temperature factors of O(4) and O(5) introduce a bias into the refined
site occupancy values resulting from correlation between the temperature
factor and occupancy of a given atom. Because time-of-flight data extend
to small d spacings (0.5 A for these refinements), these correlations
are generally smaller than for refinements of data from fixed-wavelength
diffractometers. To test the sensitivity of our result to this potential
systematic error, additional refinements were done with _B_[O(4)] and

Figure 5: Rietveld refinement profile of neutron powder-diffraction data
for sample A (_T_c = 135 K). The plus signs (+) are the time-of-flight
diffraction data with the background subtracted. The solid line is the
calculated profile. Tick marks below the profile indicate the position
of Bragg peaks for the HgBa2Cu2Cu3O5+-_δ_ phase. A difference curve
(observed minus calculated) is plotted at the bottom. Nine excluded
regions, where the observed, calculated, and difference curves are set
to zero, are used in the refinement. These regions are most easily seen
in the difference curve at the bottom of the figure.

$B[{\rm O}(5)]$ fixed at 0.5 A2 and 2.0 A2. For sample A, the total
variation in the resulting values for 8 was +-0.007. Similar results
were obtained for the other samples. We conclude that our assumption
about the fixed values of the temperature factors for the oxygen defect
sites does not introduce a significant systematic error in the
determination of 8.

## IV Discussion

The refined occupancies of the O(4) interstitial sites are 0.18(2),
0.13(2), and 0.10(2) oxygen atoms per formula unit, for samples having
_T_c’s of 135, 107, and 94 K, respectively. We conclude that it is these
changes in oxygen content that are responsible for the variations in
_T_c. In all three samples there is evidence for a second defect site at
[1/2,0,0] [O(5)] with a nominally constant concentration of  0.9 atoms
per formula unit if the defect is assumed to be an oxygen atom. A
similar second defect site, whose concentration did not change upon
oxidation or reduction of the sample, was observed previously in
Hg-1201.[6] The constant concentration of oxygen at this second defect
site suggests that O(5) is more tightly bonded than O(4). The total
change in oxygen content between sample A and C is found to be 0.08(4)
from the refinements, which agrees reasonably well with the value of
0.13(2) determined independently by TGA measurements.

The site occupancies obtained in our refinements for the interstitial
O(4) site are much smaller than that found by Chmaissem _et al_.[16] in
a neutron-diffraction study of a Hg-1223 sample synthesized at high
pressure. Chmaissem reported _n_[O(4)] = 0.41(2) and no evidence for a
second oxygen defect. However, Finger _et al_. reported at least 0.10 Cu
substitution for Hg,  0.10 oxygen atoms on the O(5) site, and less than
0.25 oxygen atoms on the O(4) site based on a single-crystal x-ray
study. It should be noted that x-ray diffraction is a more sensitive
probe of Cu/Hg substitution than neutron diffraction due to the large
difference in x-ray scattering power for these atoms, but a less
sensitive probe of oxygen. A conclusion consistent with all of these
results is that the formation of the

c c c c Parameter & A & B & C
_T_c (onset) (K) & 135 & 107 & 94
a (Å) & 3.847 86(4) & 3.854 53(6) & 3.854 65(3)
c (Å) & 15.778 2(3) & 15.825 2(4) & 15.825 1(2)
V (Å) & 233.613(5) & 235.123(7) & 235.135(4)
Hg (_x_ = y = z = 0) & & &
n & 0.95(2) & 0.90(2) & 0.95(1)
B (Å${}^{\frac{1}{2}}$) & 1.52(8) & 1.23(8) & 1.47(7)
Ba (_x_ = y = 1/2) & z & 0.1739(9) & 0.1776(3) & 0.1773(2)
B (Å${}^{\frac{1}{2}}$) & 1.16(8) & 0.97(8) & 0.76(6)
Ca (_x_ = y = 1/2) & z & 0.396 7(3) & 0.397 4(4) & 0.397 6(3)
& B (Å${}^{\frac{1}{2}}$) & 0.53(6) & 0.76(7) & 0.54(5)
Cu(1) (_x_ = y = 0,z = 1/2) & B (Å${}^{\frac{1}{2}}$) & 0.57(7) &
0.48(7) & 0.44(6)
Cu(2) (_x_ = y = 0) & z & 0.298 7(2) & 0.300 4(2) & 0.300 3(2)
& B (Å${}^{\frac{1}{2}}$) & 0.67(5) & 0.42(5) & 0.56(4)
O(1) (_x_ = 0,y = z = 1/2) & B (Å${}^{\frac{1}{2}}$) & 0.71(6) & 0.97(8)
& 0.65(5)
O(2) (_x_ = 1/2,y = 0) & z & 0.300 4(2) & 0.301 2(2) & 0.300 9(2)
& B (Å${}^{\frac{1}{2}}$) & 0.76(5) & 0.48(5) & 0.53(2)
O3 (_x_ = 0= y = 0) & z & 0.125 0(2) & 0.124 4(3) & 0.124 3(2)
& B (Å${}^{\frac{1}{2}}$) & 1.17(7) & 1.18(9) & 1.13(6)
O(4) (_x_ = y = 1/2,z = 0) & n & 0.18(2) & 0.13(2) & 0.10(2)
& B (Å${}^{\frac{1}{2}}$) & 1 & 1 & 1
O(5) (_x_ = 1/2,y = z = 0) & n & 0.09(2) & 0.09(2) & 0.08(2)
& B (Å${}^{\frac{1}{2}}$) & 1 & 1 & 1
8 & & 0.27(4) & 0.22(4) & 0.18(4)
_R_wp (%) & & 7.698 & 5.198 & 7.807
_R_exp (%) & & 4.735 & 3.012 & 4.764
X & & 1.626 & 1.726 & 1.638

Table 1: **Refined structural parameters from neutron powder-diffraction
data at room temperature for HgBa_(x)Ca_(x)Cu_(y)O₈ ₊ ₈ samples with
_T_c’s from 94 to 135 K.** second defect depends on synthesis
conditions, and that, once formed, this defect is stable with respect to
oxidation and reduction.

Scattering from the Hg site was found to be 5-10

The isotropic thermal parameters of Hg are found to be somewhat large in
these samples: ranging from 1.21 to 1.52 (A2). Chmaissem _et al._16 in
previous neutron powder-diffraction work reported _B_(Hg) = 3.9 A2.
Finger _et al._ reported _B_(Hg) = 1.3 A2 based on single-crystal x-ray
diffraction.15 All of these values are unusually large, suggesting a
contribution from static displacements of the Hg atoms. Such
displacements would be expected in response to the incorporation of the
O(4) defects in random positions. If the average spatial distribution of
Hg atoms (averaged over time and space) is not well modeled by the
harmonic temperature factors assumed in the structure refinements,
correlations between refined values of temperature factors and site
occupancies are likely. The differences in refined _B_(Hg) values
obtained by different authors may result from this problem. With
time-of-flight data extending to small d spacings, correlations between
temperature factors and site occupancies should be minimized. For
example, if we assume full occupancy of the Hg site for sample A, our
refined value for _B_(Hg) increases from 1.52 A2 to 1.70 A2. Thus, we
conclude that errors in our refined values for _B_(Hg) and _n_(Hg) due
to this correlation are small. Nevertheless, it is impossible to rule
out systematic errors in the determination of the amount of Cu on the Hg
site from these effects. Thus, our estimate of the amount of Cu
substitution may have error bars much larger than those indicated by the
refinement.

Trends in the position and thermal parameters for the Ba atom as 6 is
varied show the effect of varying the oxygen content at the O(4) site.
The nominal Ba-O(4) bond length is  2.8 A (see Table II and Fig. 1). As
the occupancy of the O(4) site increases from 0.10 to 0.18, the average
Ba-O(4) bond distance decreases by  2.3

## V Conclusions

The HgBa₂Ca₂Cu₃O_(8 + δ) structure has two different CuO₂ layers,
containing the Cu(1) and Cu(2) atoms as shown in Fig. 1. The Cu(1) atoms
have fourfold, square-planar coordination, while the Cu(2) atoms have
fivefold pyramidal coordination. The Cu(1)-O(1) layer is located in the
center of the unit cell and is required to be flat by symmetry. The
Cu(2)-O(2) layer, on the other hand, has no such constraint and may be
buckled. The refined Cu(2)-O(2)-Cu(2) angles listed in Table II are a
measure of the buckling of these layers (a flat layer would correspond
to an angle of 180^(∘)). The Cu(2)-O(2) layers are found to be nearly
flat with Cu(2)-O(2)-Cu(2) angles varying from 178.4^(∘) to 179.4^(∘) as
_T__(c) changes from 135 to 94 K, respectively. The buckling of the CuO₂
layer is also found to be closely related to the copper-apical oxygen
distance in the two and three-layer mercury compounds. The buckling of
the Cu-O plane is observed to increase as the apical oxygen moves toward
the plane. For similar copper-apical oxygen distances, the buckling of
the Cu-O layers is found to be the same in these compounds.11 This
behavior can be understood by a simple Coulomb repulsion model involving
the in-plane and out-of-plane oxy

  ------------------------- ------------------- ------------------- ------------------
      Bond length/angle      A (T_(c) = 135 K)   B (T_(c) = 107 K)   C (T_(c) = 94 K)
         Cu(2)-O(2)              1.9239(2)           1.9273(2)          1.9274(2)
         Cu(2)-O(3)              2.741(6)            2.786(7)            2.785(6)
         Cu(1)-Cu(2)             3.176(3)            3.159(3)            3.160(3)
           Hg-O(3)               1.972(3)            1.968(5)            1.967(3)
           Hg-O(4)               2.7208(3)           2.7256(4)          2.7256(3)
           Hg-O(5)               1.9239(1)           1.9273(1)          1.9273(1)
           Ba-O(2)               2.772(6)            2.746(6)            2.746(5)
           Ba-O(3)               2.828(6)            2.853(7)            2.852(6)
           Ba-O(4)               2.744(4)            2.810(5)            2.806(3)
   Cu(2)-O(2)-Cu(2) (^(∘))       178.4(4)            179.3(4)            179.4(4)
  ------------------------- ------------------- ------------------- ------------------

Table 2: Selected bond lengths and angles from structural parameters
listed in Table I for HgBa₂Ca₂Cu₃O_(8 + δ) samples.

gen atoms.

Structural features of other known triple-layer cuprate superconductors
are listed in Table 3. As can be seen, HgBa₂Ca₂Cu₃O_(8 + δ) has the
longest copper-apical oxygen bond length and flattest CuO₂ planes of any
known three-layer material. Unusually long copper-apical oxygen bond
lengths and flat CuO₂ planes are also characteristic of the single and
double-layer Hg compounds,¹¹ ⁻ ¹⁴ and we speculate that these are
essential features for the record high T_(c)’s found in the Hg-based
materials.

In the present study the occupancy of any oxygen defect site at
[1/2,1/2,0] is found to vary systematically from 0.18 to 0.10 as T_(c)
is changed from 135 to 94 K, and is the variable doping defect for this
compound. These conclusions from the structural refinements are
unambiguous. Additionally, there is evidence for a second defect site at
[1/2,0,0] that contains ∼0.09 atoms per formula unit if the scattering
is assumed to come from oxygen atoms. The occupancy of this site is
found to be essentially constant for all samples. We have interpreted
this defect as being additional oxygen atoms associated with the
substitution of Cu at the Hg site. Our assumption of Hg site
substitution is supported by the observation of a scattering deficiency
at the Hg site (since Cu has a smaller neutron-scattering cross section
than Hg). However, the refined amount of Cu substitution is larger than
would be expected for the amount of O(5) oxygen observed. It is
important to remember that from neutron diffraction it is impossible to
actually identify the elements giving rise to the scattering or to
differentiate between vacancies and substitutional defects. Moreover, if
the Hg atoms (or some of them) are statically displaced from their ideal
positions in a way that is not adequately modeled by the harmonic
thermal motion model assumed in the refinement, our refined values for
the Hg site occupancies could be subject to significant systematic
error. Thus, although we have good evidence for the incorporation of a
second defect involving these sites, our identification of the defect is
speculative. Alternate interpretations of the defect could be proposed.
For example, the defects could involve the incorporation of CO₃ ions
substituting for Hg atoms rather than Cu atoms and their associated
oxygen atoms. Further studies, such as anomalous x-ray scattering in
which sensitivity for a particular atom type can be enhanced, will be
required to resolve this issue.

## Acknowledgments

This work was supported by the National Science Foundation Office of
Science and Technology Grant No. DMR 91-20000 (J.L.W., B.A.H.), and by
the U.S. Department of Energy, Division of Basic Energy
Sciences−Materials Sciences, under Contract No. W-31-109-ENG-38 (J.D.J,
D.G.H.).

## References

* [*] Present address: Department of Physics, University of North
Dakota, Grand Forks, ND 58202. * [+] Present address: Australian Nuclear
Science and Technology Organization, Lucas Heights Research
Laboratories, Private Mail Bag 1, NSW 2234, Australia. * [3] S. N.
Putilin, E. V. Antipov, O. Chmaissem, and M. Marezio, Nature (London)
**362**, 226 (1993). * [4] A. Schilling, M. Cantoni, J. D. Guo, and H.
R. Ott, Nature (London) **363**, 56 (1993). * [5] L. Gao, J. Z. Huang,
R. L. Meng, G. Lin, F. Chen, L. Beauvais, Y. Y. Sun, Y. Y. Xue, and C.
W. Chu, Physica C **213**, 261 (1993). * [6] C. W. Chu, L. Gao, F. Chen,
Z. J. Huang, R. L. Meng, and Y. Y. Xue, Nature (London) **365**, 323
(1993). * [7] M. Nunez-Regueiro, J. Tholence, E. V. Antipov, J. Copponi,
and M. Marezio, Science **262**, 97 (1993). * [8] J. L. Wagner, P. G.
Radaelli, D. G. Hinks, J. D. Jorgensen, J. F. Mitchell, B. Dabrowski, G.
S. Knapp, and M. A. Beno, Physica C **210**, 447 (1993). * [9] O.
Chmaissem, Q. Huang, S. N. Putilin, M. Marezio, and A. Santoro, Physica
C **212**, 259 (1993). * [10] D. L. Novikov and A. J. Freeman, Physica C
**212**, 23 (1993); **216**, 273 (1993); D. J. Singh, _ibid._**212**,
228 (1993); Phys. Rev. B **48**, 3571 (1993); C. O. Rodriguez, N. E.
Christensen, and E. L. Peltzer y Blaca, Physica C **216**, 12 (1993); D.
J. Singh and W. E. Pickett, Phys. Rev. Lett. **73**, 476 (1994). * [11]
M. Itoh, A. Tokiwa-Yamamoto, S. Adachi, and H. Yamauchi, Physica C
**212**, 259 (1993). * [12] B. Morosin, E. L. Venturini, J. E. Schirber,
and P. P. Newcomer, Physica C **226**, 175 (1994). * [13] P. G.
Radaelli, J. L. Wagner, B. A. Hunter, M. A. Beno, G. S. Knapp, J. D.
Jorgensen, and D. G. Hinks, Physica C **216**, 29 (1993). * [14] S. M.
Loureiro, E. V. Antipov, J. L. Tholence, J. J. Capponi, O. Chmaissem, Q.
Huang, and M. Marezio, Physica C **217**, 253 (1993). * [15] E. V.
Antipov, J. J. Capponi, C. Chaillout, O. Chmaissem, S. M. Loureiro, M.
Marezio, S. N. Putilin, A. Santoro, and J. L. Tholence, Physica C
**218**, 348 (1993). * [16] Q. Huang, J. W. Lynn, R. L. Meng, and C. W.
Chu, Physica C **218**, 356 (1993). * [17] L. W. Finger, R. M. Hazen, R.
T. Downs, R. L. Meng, and C. W. Chu, Physica C **226**, 216 (1994). *
[18] O. Chmaissem, Q. Huang, E. V. Antipov, S. N. Putilin, M. Marezio,
S. M. Loureiro, J. J. Capponi, J. L. Tholence, and A. Santoro, Physica C
**217**, 265 (1993). * [19] M. A. Beno and G. S. Knapp, Rev. Sci.
Instrum. **64**, 2201 (1993).

  -------------------------------- ------- --------------- ---------
                                    T_(c)   Cu-O (apical)   Cu-O-Cu
              Compound               (K)         (Å)        (^(*))
       PbBaYSrCu₃O₈ (Ref. 24)        50         2.157        173.4
     Bi₂Sr₂Ca₂Cu₃O₁₀ (Ref. 25)       108        2.215        169.3
   TlBa₂Ca₂Cu₃O_(9 + δ) (Ref. 26)    110        2.698        178.1
     Tl₂Ba₂Ca₃Cu₃O₁₀ (Ref. 27)       125        2.725        178.3
        HgBa₂Ca₂Cu₃O_(8.27)          135        2.741        178.4
        HgBa₂Ca₃Cu₃O_(8.18)          94         2.785        179.4
  -------------------------------- ------- --------------- ---------

Table 3: Structural features of Cu-O planes for selected three-layer
cuprate superconductors. The values listed for HgBa₂Ca₂Cu₃O_(8 + δ) are
from the present study.

* [18] J. G. Thompson, J. D. Fitz Gerald, R. L. Withers, P. J.
Barlow,and J. S. Anderson, Mater. Res. Bull **24,** 505 (1989). * [19]
G. F. Voroni and S. A. Degterov, J. Solid State Chem. **110**, 50
(1994). * [20]_CRC Handbook of Chemistry and Physics, 66th ed._ (CRC,
Boca Raton, FL, 1985-86). * [21] Y. A. Chang and K. C. Hsieh, _Phase
Diagrams of Ternary Copper-Oxygen-Metals Sytems_ (ASM, Metals Park, OH,
1989). * [22] J. D. Jorgensen, J. Faber, Jr., J. M. Carpenter, R. K.
Crawford, J. R. Haumann, R. L. Hitterman, R. Kleb, G. E. Ostrowski, F.
J. Rotella, and T. G. Wortton, J. Appl. Crystallogr. **22,** 321
(1989). * [23] R. B. von Dreele, J. D. Jorgensen, and C. J. Windsor, J.
Appl. Crystallogr. **15**, 581 (1982). * [24] R. Roulillon, R. Retoux,
D. Groult, C. Michel, M. Hervieu, J. Provost, and B. Raveau, J. Solid
State Chem. **78**, 322 (1989). * [25] Z. Wenjie, C. Fengxiang, L. Neng,
L. Hongyu, L. Bingxiong, and T. Youqi, _Advances in Superconductivity_
(Springer, New York, 1988). * [26] S. P. Parkin, V. Y. Lee, A. I.
Nazzal, R. Savoy, R. Beyers, and S. J. LaPlaca, Phys. Rev. Lett. **61**,
750 (1988). * [27] D. E. Cox, C. C. Torardi, M. A. Subramanian, J.
Gopalakrishnan, and A. W. Sleight, Phys. Rev. B **38**, 6624 (1988).
