# Low-temperature heat capacity of superconducting ternary iron
silicides

C. B. Vining and R. N. Shelton

Ames Laboratory and Department of Physics, Iowa State University, Ames,
Iowa 50011

H. F. Braun and M. Pelizzone

Departement de Physique de la Matiere Condensee, Universite de Geneve,
Ch-1211 Geneve 4, Switzerland

18 October 1982

###### Abstract

The low-temperature heat capacity of superconducting ternary iron
silicides Lu₂Fe₅Si₅, Sc₂Fe₅Si₅, and Y₂Fe₅Si₅ has been measured,
revealing several anomalous properties of the superconducting state of
these materials. These materials show a large linear term in the
superconducting heat capacity and a reduced normalized jump in the
specific heat at T_(e). A two-band model is proposed to explain these
properties and previously reported anomalous properties of
superconducting ternary iron silicides.

## Introduction

Ternary superconductors, particularly the Chevrel phase compounds and
the rhodium borides, have been extensively studied in recent years.[1,
2] A major motivation in this work has been the investigation of the
competition between superconductivity and magnetism made possible by the
presence of a sublattice of magnetic rare-earth atoms. The discovery of
Sc₂Co₄Si₁₀ with a superconducting transition temperature (T_(e)) of 4.9
K demonstrated that relatively high T_(e)’s may be found among compounds
containing 3d transition elements as intrinsic constituents.[3]

Among binary-ion compounds only U₆Fe (T_(e) = 3.9 K) (Ref. [4]) and
Th₇Fe₃ (T_(e) = 1.86 K) (Ref. [5]) are superconducting above 1 K.
Recently five ternary compounds containing iron as the transition metal
[M₂Fe₅Si₅ with M = Lu,Sc,Y,Tm (Refs. [6] and [7]) and LaFe₄P₁₂ (Ref.
[8]) have been reported superconducting. The ternary-iron silicides,
M₂Fe₅Si₅ were first reported superconducting by Braun in 1980.[6] The
properties of these materials are anomalous in several respects: (i) The
effect of pressure on T_(e) is among the largest known (dT_(e)/dp = −7 x
10⁻⁵ K/bar for Lu₂Fe₅Si₅ and Sc₂Fe₅Si₅ and dT_(e)/dp = 33 x 10⁻⁵ K/bar
for Y₂Fe₅Si₅) (Ref. [9]; (ii) the rapid depression of T_(e) with
nonmagnetic impurities (T_(e) drops below 1 K for 15

The low-temperature heat capacity for the compounds Lu₂Fe₅Si₅,
Sc₂Fe₅Si₅, and Y₂Fe₅Si₅ is reported here as part of a systematic study
of the low-temperature properties of M₂Fe₅Si₅ materials (M = Sm, Gd-Lu,
Sc, and Y). The low-temperature heat capacity of the magnetic rare-earth
compounds will be reported elsewhere.

## SAMPLE PREPARATION AND CHARACTERIZATION

Samples of Lu₂Fe₅Si₅, Sc₂Fe₅Si₅, and Y₂Fe₅Si₅ of 3−4 g each were
prepared by arc-melting stoichiometric mixtures of high-purity elements
in a Zr-gettered argon atmosphere. The resulting ingots were then turned
over and remelted at least six times to promote homogeneity. The samples
were then sealed in quartz ampoules with about 300 Torr of argon and
annealed at 1250 degC for five days followed by seven days at 800 degC.
The resulting ingots were shiny, heavily faceted, hard, and brittle with
cracks over much of the surface.

Powder x-ray diffraction confirms the presence of the 2:3:5 phase (space
group P4/mnc) with lattice parameters in agreement with those reported
by Braun.[6] Low-temperature powder x-ray diffraction indicates no
structural transformation above 30 K. In each sample the x-rays show
only one or two very weak lines not indexable to the 2:3:5 structure
which are attributed to small amounts of impurities. Optical microscope
investigations indicate large grains of 100−200 μm with small amounts of
impurities along the grain boundaries. Microprobe results indicate two
major impurities of approximate compositions FeSi and MFe₅Si₅. Total
impurities are estimated to be about 2

Low-frequency ac inductance measurements indi cate superconducting
transitions at 6.3, 4.4, and 1.7 K for Lu2Fe3Si5, Sc2Fe5Si5, and
Y2Fe3Si5, respectively, in agreement with previous results.6, 9 The
transitions are sharp (D_Tc_ = 0.2 K) and consistent with bulk
superconductivity.

Magnetic susceptibility measurements from 5 to 250 K on a piece of the
sample of Lu2Fe3Si5 used in the heat-capacity measurements indicate a
paramagnetic susceptibility consistent with an upper limit of 14 ppm
free iron. Similar measurements on samples of Sc2Fe3Si5 and Y2Fe3Si5
which were not used in the heat-capacity measurements indicate upper
limits of 38 and 30 ppm free iron, respectively, in these samples. These
data are shown in Fig. 1.

In addition to the above samples, a series of five samples Sc2Fe3+8Si5
(d = -0.5, -0.1,0.0,0.1,0.5) not used in the heat-capacity measurements
were prepared to study the effect of stoichiometry on the
superconducting properties. These samples were prepared with special
attention to the relative amounts of Fe in each sample. From a master
ingot of Sc2Si5, samples of Sc2Fe2.5Si5 and Sc2Fe3.5Si5 were prepared by
adding the appropriate amounts of Fe. The remaining three samples (d =
-0.1,0.0,0.1) were prepared by mixing appropriate amounts of these two
samples. The superconducting transition temperatures of these five
samples are presented in Fig. 2, together with the _Tc_ of the sample of
Sc2Fe3Si5 used in the heat-capacity study. X rays on the
off-stoichiometry samples (d = 0.0) indicate increasing amounts of
impurities with increasing |δ|. The rapid depression of _Tc_ and
increased impurities with off stoichiometry indicate even a few percent
of impurities can be readily identified. The results of x-ray
diffraction, microprobe, _Tc_ measurements, and effects of stoichiometry
all indicate no more than a few percent impurities in the samples used
in the heat-capacity measurements. The general high quality of the
samples used in this study, particularly the samples of Lu2Fe3Si5 and
Sc2Fe3Si5, and the extensive characterization of these samples play a
major role in the discussion of the results below.

## EXPERIMENTAL DETAILS

Low-temperature heat-capacity measurements were performed using a
semiadiabatic heat pulse-type calorimeter equipped with a mechanical
heat switch, a circulating 4He pot and a circulating 3He pot. Mechanical
noise introduced while operating the 3He system prohibited accurate data
acquisition below 1 K. during the measurements, limiting the usable
temperature range to 1.2-30 K. This problem has since been corrected
extending the usable temperature range to at least 0.5 K.

The sample holder consists of gold-plated copper in a clamp arrangement,
providing good mechanical and thermal contact between the sample and the
sample holder. The sample holder is supported by a rigid, thin-walled,
low-thermal-conductivity nylon support providing good mechanical
stability. A mechanical heat switch and thermal shield with a heater
provide ambient temperature control. A four-probe method was used to
simultaneously measure the current and voltage during each heat pulse of
a 1000-Ω Pt-W heater on the sample holder. The duration of the heater
pulse is measured with a commercial digital timer. The determination of
the total heat applied to the sample is believed to introduce no more
than 0.1

The thermometry consists of a germanium resistance thermometer (GRT) and
a commercially available potentiometric conductance bridge. The GRT was
selected for its extended usable temperature range (0.3-30 K) and
calibrated in this laboratory in the range 0.9-30 K against a GRT known
for its stablity and reliability as a secondary standard. The
calibration procedure and equipment is described in Ref. 15. A second
calibration, overlapping this one, was performed from 0.3 -2.0 K against
a GRT calibrated in this range by the manufacturer. The GRT thermometry
is believed accurate to at least +-5 mK at 20 K and +-1 mK below 4 K.
The temperature change during a heat pulse is determined by monitoring
the GRT conductance on a strip-chart recorder. This graphical procedure
is believed to be the principal source of random error in these
measurements.

As a check of the equipment and procedures used, several runs were
performed to determine the heat capacity of the addenda (sample holder,
thermometer, heater, and GE 7031 varnish) and a piece of high-purity
copper. The resulting overall precision in each run and agreement
between different runs was typically better than 0.5

## RESULTS

The low-temperature heat capacities of Lu2Fe3Si5, Sc2Fe3Si5, and
Y2Fe3Si5 are shown in Figs. 3-5, respectively, where _C/T_ is plotted
against T2 in the usual manner. A jump in the heat capacity at 6.3, 4.4,
and 1.7 K for Lu2Fe3Si5, Sc2Fe3Si5, and Y2Fe3Si5, respectively,
indicates the transition into the superconducting state. Deviations from
linearity above T_(e), especially in Lu2Fe3Si5, are apparent. In

Figure 3: _C/T_ vs T2 for Lu2Fe3Si5. The inset indicates the coefficient
of the linear term in the heat capacity for the normal state (_g_s) and
the superconducting state (_g_s), in mJ/mole K2.

Figure 2: Superconducting transition temperatures (■) of Sc2Fe3+8Si5
compounds. Error bars indicate width of the transition into the
superconducting state. The transition temperature for the sample of
Sc2Fe3Si5 used in the heat-capacity measurements is indicated at the
right (■).

each case the data were fit in the temperature range from above T_(e) to
18 K to C = γ_(n)T + β_(n)T³ + α_(n)T⁵ with a root-mean-square deviation
of about 1

Figure 4: C/T vs T² for Sc₂Fe₃Si₅. The inset indicates the coefficient
of the linear term in the heat capacity for the normal state (γ_(n)) and
the superconducting state (γ_(s)), in mJ/mole K².

state data is more well behaved (i.e., the T⁵ contribution is smaller)
and T_(c) is lower.

The jump in the specific heat at T_(c) is sharp for Lu₂Fe₅Si₅ (ΔT_(e) =
0.3 K) and Sc₂Fe₅Si₅ (ΔT_(e) = 0.35 K). The jump at T_(c) for Y₂Fe₅Si₅
is relatively broad (ΔT_(e) = 0.5 K) with significant contributions to
C(T) from the superconducting state as high as 2 K. The somewhat lower
value of T_(c) than previously reported [6] and the broadened transition
into the superconducting state suggests the Y₂Fe₅Si₅ sample is somewhat
lower in quality than the other two samples. In each case the normalized
jump in the heat capacity at T_(c), ΔC/γ_(n)T_(c), is significantly
reduced from the BCS value of 1.43 (see Table I), being less than 60

Below T_(c) the heat capacity of Lu₂Fe₅Si₅ is remarkably simple (see
inset Fig. 2). From 2.4 to 6 K the data can be described by C = γ_(s)T +
β_(s)T³ = 10.14T = 1.346T³ mJ/mole K to within experimental error (0.7

## Discussion

The anomalously large T⁵ contribution observed in the normal state heat
capacities of these materials, especially in Lu₂Fe₅Si₅, suggests a
rather complex phonon density of states. Deviation from T³ in the
lattice contribution to the heat capacity has been reported for other
ternary superconductors [18, 19] and may be a rather general consequence
of the complex phonon density of states which may be expected from the
complex crystal structures of these materials.

More notable are the results for measurements in the superconducting
states of these materials. The reduced normalized jump at T_(c) and the
large linear term below T_(c), evident in these data, are quite unusual.
There are several possible origins for a linear term in the
superconducting specific heat and a reduced normalized jump at T_(c):
(i) the presence of bulk amounts of normal impurities or large
inhomogeneities, (ii) presence of small amounts of impurities with a
large γ, (iii) a gapless or mixed superconducting state induced by some
pair breaking mechanism, or (iv) the existence of a region (or regions)
of the Fermi surface which does not participate in superconductivity. We
will consider each of these broad catergories in turn.

The rather extensive characterizations of the samples discussed above
serve to address (i) and (ii). Estimating conservatively there are at
most 5

Attributing γ_(s) in Lu₂Fe₅Si₅ to impurities of 5

                          Units           Lu₂Fe₅Si₅     Sc₂Fe₅Si₅     Y₂Fe₅Si₅
  --------------- --------------------- ------------- ------------- -------------
       T_(c)                K            6.25 ± 0.15   4.46 ± 0.2    1.68 ± 0.25
       γ_(n)          mJ/mole K [2]         27.8          22.2          19.4
       β_(n)          mJ/mole K [4]         0.170         0.110         0.165
       α_(n)          mJ/mole K [6]      7.97 × 10⁻⁴   8.82 × 10⁻⁵   1.77 × 10⁻⁴
       Θ_(D)                K                485           561           490
        ΔC              mJ/mole K           173.0         80.3          25.4
   ΔC/γ_(n)T_(c)                            0.99          0.81          0.78
       γ_(s)          mJ/mole K [2]         10.14         13.6      
       β_(s)          mJ/mole K [4]         1.346                   
       N(0)        states/eV atom spin      0.59          0.47          0.41
         λ                                  0.51          0.45          0.39
        MW               g/mole             657.9         397.9         485.8

Table 1: Superconducting and normal properties of ternary iron
silicides.

than 5

This leaves (iv) which is essentially a two-band model in which one band
remains normal. This is entirely consistent with our results, with γ_(s)
representing the density of states of the normal band and γ_(n) the
total density of states. In order for the normal band to remain stable
against condensation of Cooper pairs it must have a net repulsive
electron-electron interaction and be at most very weakly coupled with
the superconducting band(s) (see, for example, Ref. 21). The
topologically complex Fermi surfaces typical of 3d transition metals,
and especially so for ternary materials, may well provide the necessary
pockets of electrons to explain the anomalous superconducting properties
of these materials. The dramatic pressure and alloying properties can be
understood in this model as arising from the rapid changes which might
be expected in these pockets of electrons, both in surface area of the
pockets in momentum space and topology of the surface in general, with a
pressurelike variable. Band-structure calculations would be very useful
in this respect.

## Summary

Anomalous behavior is observed in the superconducting properties of
Lu₂Fe₃Si₅, Sc₂Fe₃Si₅, and Y₂Fe₃Si₅. Low-temperature specific-heat
measurements indicate a large linear term in the superconducting state
and a reduced jump in the specific heat significantly less than the BCS
value of 1.43, indicating normal electrons in the superconducting state.
These properties can all be understood in terms of a topologically
complex Fermi surface in which pockets of electrons remain in the normal
state well below T_(ϵ).

###### Acknowledgements.

The Ames Laboratory is operated for the U. S. Department of Energy by
Iowa State University under Contract No. W-7405-Eng-82. This research
was supported in part by the Director for Energy Research, Office of
Basic Sciences, WPAS-KC-02-02-02, and in part by the Swiss National
Science Foundation.

## References

* [1] R. N. Shelton, in _Novel Materials and Techniques in Condensed
Matter_, edited by G. W. Crabtree and P. Vashishta (Elsevier, New York,
1982), p. 119. * [2] R. N. Shelton, in _IV International Conference on
Superconductivity in d- and f-Band Metals_, edited by W. Buckel and W.
Weber (Kernforschungszentrum, Karlsruhe, 1982), p. 123. * [3] H. F.
Braun and C. U. Segre, Solid State Commun. 35, 735 (1980). * [4] B. F.
Chandreskar and J. K. Hulm, J. Phys. Chem. Solids J, 259 (1958). * [5]
B. T. Matthias, V. B. Compton, and E. Corenzwit, J. Phys. Chem. Solids
19, 130 (1961). * [6] F. F. Braun, Phys. Lett. 75A, 386 (1980). * [7] C.
U. Segre and H. F. Braun, Phys. Lett. 85A, 372 (1981). * [8] G. P.
Meisner, Physica 108B, 763 (1981). * [9] C. U. Segre and H. F. Braun,
_Physics of Solids Under High Pressure_, edited by J. S. Schilling and
R. N. Shelton (North-Holland, Amsterdam, 1981), p. 381. * [10] H. F.
Braun and C. U. Segre, Bull. Am. Phys. Soc. 26, 343 (1981). * [11] J. D.
Cashion, G. K. Shenoy, D. Niarchos, P. J. Viccaro, and C. M. Falco,
Phys. Lett. 79A, 454 (1980). * [12] H. F. Braun, C. U. Segre, F. Acker,
M. Rosenberg, S. Dey, and P. Deppe, J. Magn. Magn. Mater. 25, 117
(1981). * [13] J. D. Cashion, G. K. Shenoy, D. Niarchos, P. J. Viccaro,
A. T. Aldred, and C. M. Falco, J. Appl. Phys. 52, 2180 (1981). * [14] A.
R. Moodenbaugh, D. E. Cox, and H. F. Braun, Phys. Rev. B 25, 4702
(1982). * [15] M. S. Anderson and C. A. Swenson, Rev. Sci. Instrum. 49,
1027 (1978). * [16] D. W. Osborne, H. E. Flotow, and F. Schreiner, Rev.
Sci. Instrum. 38, 159 (1967).

* [17] W. L. McMillan, Phys. Rev. 167, 331 (1968). * [18] R. W.
McCallum, L. D. Woolf, R. N. Shelton, and M. B. Maple, J. Phys. (Paris)
Colloq. 32, C6-359 (1978). * [19] L. D. Woolf, D. C. Johnston, H. B.
Mackay, R. W. McCallum, and M. B. Maple, J. Low Temp. Phys. 35, 651
(1979). * [20] E. S. R. Gopal, _Specific Heats at Low Temperature_
(Plenum, New York, 1966), p. 63. * [21] H. Suhl, B. T. Matthias, and L.
R. Walker, Phys. Rev. Lett. 3, 552 (1959).
