# Single-layer oxychloride superconductor Ca2-CuO2Cl2 with _A_-site
cation deficiency

I. Yamada

1Institute for Chemical Research, Kyoto University, Uji, Kyoto 611-0011,
Japan

A. A. Belik

2PRESTO, Japan Science and Technology Corporation, Kawaguchi, Saitama
332-0012, Japan Institute of Materials Structure Science, High Energy
Accelerator Research Organization, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 305-0801, Japan

M. Azuma

2PRESTO, Japan Science and Technology Corporation, Kawaguchi, Saitama
332-0012, Japan Institute of Materials Structure Science, High Energy
Accelerator Research Organization, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 305-0801, Japan

S. Harjo

3Institute of Materials Structure Science, High Energy Accelerator
Research Organization, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 305-0801, Japan

T. Kamiyama

3Institute of Materials Structure Science, High Energy Accelerator
Research Organization, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 305-0801, Japan

Y. Shimakawa

1Institute for Chemical Research, Kyoto University, Uji, Kyoto 611-0011,
Japan

M. Takano

1Institute for Chemical Research, Kyoto University, Uji, Kyoto 611-0011,
Japan

Footnote 1: Present address: Department of Physics, University of Tokyo,
1-3-8, Meguro, Tokyo 181-8588, Japan

Received 9 June 2005; revised manuscript received 9 August 2005;
published 7 December 2005

###### Abstract

An oxychloride superconductor Ca2-CuO2Cl2 with a single CuO2 plane in
the unit cell was prepared without cation substitution using
high-pressure synthesis. The highest $T_{\rm C}$ was 38 K, 10 K higher
than that of Ca2-Na2CuO2Cl2. Structure analysis based on synchrotron
x-ray and neutron powder diffractions revealed that the Ca deficiency
was the origin of the hole carrier. This compound has two structural
features as compared to Ca2-Na2CuO2Cl2; fewer defects and a shorter
Cu-Cl bond length. Postannealing at 773 K led to a further increase of
the $T_{\rm C}$ to 43 K. This superconductor with a flat CuO2 plane
might form the basis for future discussions about the factors that
determine the $T_{\rm C}$ of single-layer cuprates.

pacs: 10.1103/PhysRevB.72.224503 (5)/823.00 + Footnote †: preprint:
PHYSICAL REVIEW B **72**, 224503 (2005)

## I Introduction

Superconductivity in copper oxides occurs when an adequate number of
hole or electron carriers are introduced into an antiferromagnetic
insulator with CuO2 planes. La2CuO4 becomes superconducting when the
La3+ ions are partially substituted by divalent alkaline earth ions like
Sr⁺. Hole doping can, however, be done in another way. It is
well-established that the injection of excess oxygen into interstitial
sites works as well.[1] In this paper we will show that in the case of
Ca2CuO2Cl2 deficiency of the counter cation, Ca2+, also works.
Mentioning a related known example, the metallic ferromagnet generally
formulated as LaMnO3+, contains, in fact, cation deficiencies as
La1-_(x)Mn1-_(y)O3.[2]

Copper oxychloride Ca2CuO2Cl2 has a single CuO2 plane, the same as
La2CuO4. Figure 1 shows the crystal structure of Ca2CuO2Cl2 in
tetragonal unit cell of a = 3.87 A and c = 15.05 A.[3] This can be
derived from La2CuO4 by replacing La with Ca and apical oxygen with
chlorine, and is antiferromagnetic insulator with $T_{\rm N}$ = 250
K,[4] as other parent compounds of copper oxide superconductors. In
spite of the structural features, Ca2CuO2Cl2 was known as a candidate
parent compound of superconductor with a flat CuO2 plane, i.e., it was
impossible to introduce mobile carriers. Hole doping by substituting Na
for Ca to make this compound superconducting was accomplished using
high-pressure (HP) synthesis at 6 GPa.[5] Samples in the left half of
the bell-shaped superconducting phase diagram have been obtained so
far.[6] Ca2-Na2CuO2Cl2 has the highest $T_{\rm C}$ = 28 K at x = 0.20.
The ease of sample preparation with a lightly hole-doped composition, an
absence of structural changes at low temperature, an absence of
structural modulation, and excellent single crystal sample cleavage[7]
are ideal for surface sensitive measurements. Investigations into this
compound’s electronic state using angle-resolved photoemission
spectroscopy[8, 9, 10] and scanning tunneling
microscopy/spectroscopy[11, 12] are attracting great attention.

Recently, we discovered a Ca2CuO2Cl2-based superconductor with the
highest $T_{\rm C}$ of 38 K using HP synthesis without Na
substitution.[13] Two possibilities were suggested for the hole carrier
origin; the presence of a calcium deficiency and presence of
interstitial chlorine. However, no conclusions were reached at that
time. Here we describe the results of the structural determination of
this superconductor. Structural analyses based on synchrotron x-ray and
neutron powder diffraction clearly show that Ca deficiency exists in the
superconducting samples.

## II Experiment

A precursor Ca2CuO2Cl2 from CaCO3 (99.99

Figure 1: Crystal structure of the oxychloride Ca2CuO2Cl2. The black,
small and large gray spheres correspond to the Cu, Ca, and Cl ions,
respectively. Oxygen appears in the corners of the squares.

charged with the earlier mixture was placed in a high-pressure cell and
compressed to 6 GPa in a cubic anvil type high-pressure apparatus. The
sample was then heated at 1273 K for 30 min and quenched to room
temperature before releasing the pressure. The weighting, the mixing,
and the capsule filling procedures were performed in an Ar filled drybox
to avoid influence of moisture. Powder x-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns
with Cu _K_a radiation were taken with a Rigaku RINT 2500 diffractometer
to identify the phases. Synchrotron x-ray diffraction (SXRD) patterns
were collected for the samples with various starting compositions at
room temperature with a large Debye-Scherrer camera [14] installed at
the beam line BL02B2 of SPring-8 with λ =0.775 976 A (_x_n = 0, 0.1, and
0.2 samples) and 0.775 640 A (_x_n = 0.15 sample). The powder sample’s
granularity was homogenized to 2-3 _m_m in diameter using a
precipitation method in hexane. [15, 16] Neutron powder diffraction
(NPD) data were taken on the 2 g m of as-synthesized pellets of the
sample with the highest _T_C, using the Vega [17] time-of-flight neutron
diffractometer at KENS. The structural parameters were refined by
Rietveld analyses using RIETAN-2000 (Ref. [18]) and RIETAN-TN (Ref.
[19]) software. Magnetic susceptibilities were measured on cooling using
a Quantum Design superconducting quantum interference device MPMS in an
external field of 10 Oe.

## III Results and Discussion

We observed superconductivity with the highest _T_C of 38 K for both
sets of samples, Ca2+-CuO2Cl2 and Ca2CuO2Cl2+-y in nominal compositions
of _x_n   0.2 and _y_n   0.4, respectively. No peaks attributed to the
double or triple layer oxychloride phase were found in the XRD patterns.
The a axis shrunk while the c axis expanded as _x_n and _y_n increased,
and the relationship between the lattice parameters and _T_C were
essentially the same for both series. It is reasonable to assume that
the same superconducting phase was obtained from the initial two
compositions. However, a considerable amount of CaCl2 2H2O impurities
were found only in the sample prepared from Ca2CuO2Cl2+-y. This suggests
that the superconducting phase was Ca2+-CuO2Cl2 and the remaining Ca and
Cl formed CaCl2 and then absorbed the moisture from the air. Therefore,
SXRD and NPD measurements were performed on Ca2+-CuO2Cl2 samples to
confirm the calcium deficiency.

Figure 2 shows the SXRD and NPD patterns for the sample with the nominal
Ca1,8CuO2Cl2 (_x_n = 0.2) composition with _T_C = 38 K. Because we could
not observe any reflection indicating a superlattice, the structure
refinements were performed based on the I4/_mmm_ space group (No. 139),
the same as that of Ca2CuO2Cl2. A small amount of CuO (1.97 wt

Figure 2: (a) Synchrotron x-ray and (b) neutron powder diffraction
patterns for the sample with the nominal composition of Ca1,8CuO2Cl2
(_x_n = 0.20), taken at room temperature. Dots and lines show the
observed and calculated patterns. The difference between the observed
and fitted patterns is displayed at the bottom of the figures. The upper
and lower vertical marks correspond to the diffraction positions of
Ca2+-CuO2Cl2 and impurities of CaCl(OH) (SXRD) and CuO (NPD),
respectively.

ences are small, we employ the g values with _B_’s refined in the
following discussion. Figure 3 shows the lattice parameter changes as
functions of the refined _x_r values. The a axis shrunk as the Ca
deficiency increased, indicating that the hole carrier was introduced in
the CuO2 plane while the c axis expanded. These changes were similar to
those of Ca2-_x_Na,CuO2Cl2 and other _p_-type superconductors. As shown
in Fig. 4, there was a linear relationship between the nominal and the
refined Ca deficiency, _x_r=0.473 _x_n. It should be noted that this
reduced carrier concentration from the nominal composition was also
observed in Ca2-_x_Na,CuO2Cl2. Inclusion of the impurity phases such as
CuO could be the reason for these discrepancies. In fact, the mole ratio
of Ca and Cu estimated from the NPD refinement was Ca:Cu=1.79(7):1, in
good agreement with the nominal composition Ca1,8CuO2Cl2 of the starting
mixture.

Figure 4: The refined calcium deficiency concentration _x_r as a
function of the nominal composition _x_n in Ca2-_x_CuO2Cl2. The line
corresponds to _x_r=0.473_x_n obtained using the least-squares method.

Figure 3: The lattice parameter changes as functions of the refined _x_r
values. The lines are guides to the eye.

Figure 5 shows the temperature dependences of the magnetic
susceptibility for samples with various Ca deficiencies. The parent
compound, Ca2CuO2Cl2, did not show any trace of superconductivity, while
the _x_+=0.048 sample showed a weak diamagnetism below 15 K. Both the
$T_{\rm C}$ and the volume fraction increased as x increased, and the
_x_+=0.092 sample showed the highest $T_{\rm C}$ of 38 K. The large
diamagnetic susceptibility of −9 × 10⁻² emu/g corresponded to the
Meissner volume fraction of about 50

The reason for the $T_{\rm C}$ increase is not clear at this stage of
the study, but we suggest two possibilities based on the comparison with
Ca2_(2 − x)Na_(x)CuO2Cl2. One possibility is that the structural defects
created by the cation substitution or deficiency reduce the $T_{\rm C}$.
The number of the structural defects is half of that of
Ca2_(2 − x)Na_(x)CuO2Cl2 with the same hole concentration. This is
because one Ca vacancy contains two holes, while replacing a Ca ion with
a Na ion creates only one hole. The influences of the ionic size
differences of two elements occupying the A sites were investigated for
La-214 (Ref. [21]) and Bi-2201 systems.[22] In both compounds, a larger
ionic radius mismatch results in lower $T_{\rm C}$. In our system, the
size difference between Ca2+ and the vacancy is much larger than that of
Ca2+ and Na+. However, the number of defects, another factor reducing
the $T_{\rm C}$, is half of that of Ca2_(2 − x)Na_(x)CuO2Cl2 as
described above. Considering these two points, the influence of the
defect concentration exceeds that of the size mismatch in the present
system.

Another possibility is that the position of the chlorine ion at the
CuO₄Cl₂ octahedron apex governs the $T_{\rm C}$. The Cu-Cl bond length
of Ca2_(2 − x)CuO2Cl2 was 1

It should also be noted that annealing the _x_+=0.092 sample at 773 K in
a quartz vacuum tube for 12 h led to a further increase in $T_{\rm C}$
to 43 K, as plotted in Fig. 5. Because the same $T_{\rm C}$ was obtained
for the sample annealed in an oxygen flow at 773 K for 12 h, we know the
carrier concentration change caused by introducing or removing excess
oxygen does not cause the $T_{\rm C}$ increase. One possible explanation
is that the microscopic strain in the crystal structure caused during
the pressure release was relaxed during the annealing procedure. Another
possibility is that the Ca vacancies ordered during annealing. Such
ordering reduces the inhomogeneities and randomness in the system, so is
expected to enhance $T_{\rm C}$ as discussed in Ref. [22]. No
superlattice peaks were found in the SXRD pattern for the annealed

              Ca2CuO2Cl2   Ca1₉₅₂CuO2Cl2   Ca1₉₀Na_(0.10)CuO2Cl2
  ---------- ------------ --------------- -----------------------
     Cu-O     1.93368(1)    1.92819(4)           1.9248(1)
   (=_a_/2)                               
    Cu-Cl     2.7420(5)      2.7347(1)           2.7615(3)
      c       15.0412(1)    15.0984(3)          15.1729(5)

Table 2: Selected bond and c axis lengths (in angstroms) for Ca2CuO2Cl2,
Ca1₉₅₂CuO2Cl2, and Ca1₉₀Na_(0.10)CuO2Cl2.

Figure 5: Temperature dependences of the magnetic susceptibility of
Ca2_(2 − x)CuO2Cl2 (_x_ =0.036, 0.048, 0.074, 0.085, and 0.092) measured
on cooling in an external field of 10 Oe. The x values of 0.048, 0.074,
and 0.092 were determined from the structure refinements. We estimated
0.036 and 0.085 from the nominal composition using the equation
_x_+=0.473 _x_n given in the discussion.

sample, but this alone is not enough to eliminate the possibility of
ordering. Unfortunately, we were unable to complete the electron
diffraction study essential for such ordered structures because of the
high reactivity of the sample containing moisture.

In conclusion, we fabricated a single-layer oxychloride superconductor
with $T_{\rm C}$=38 K using high-pressure synthesis. Structure analyses
based on synchrotron x-ray and neutron powder diffractions clearly
showed that the Ca deficiency was the origin of the hole carrier. The
$T_{\rm C}$ further increased to 43 K after post annealing at 773 K.
This superconductor with a flat CuO₂ plane might be a model compound for
discussions about the factors determining the $T_{\rm C}$ of
single-layer cuprates.

###### Acknowledgements.

The synchrotron radiation experiments were performed at the SPring-8
with the approval of the Japan Synchrotron Radiation Research Institute.
We would like to express our thanks to the Ministry of Education,
Culture, Sports, Science and Technology, Japan, for Grants-in-Aid Nos.
13440111, 14204070, and 12CE2005 for COE Research on Elements Science,
and for 21COE on the Kyoto Alliance for Chemistry.

## References

* [1] A. M. Van Roosmalen, E. H. P. Cordfunke, and R. B. Helmholdt, J.
Solid State Chem. **110**, 100 (1994). * [2] H. Muller-Buschbaum, Angew.
Chem., Int. Ed. Engl. **16**, 674 (1977). * [3] D. Vaknin, L. L. Miller,
and J. L. Zaretsky, Phys. Rev. B **56**, 8351 (1997). * [4] Z. Hiroi, N.
Kobayashi, and M. Takano, Nature **371**, 139 (1994). * [5] Z. Hiroi, N.
Kobayashi, and M. Takano, Physica C **266**, 191 (1996). * [6] Y.
Kohsaka, M. Azuma, I. Yamada, T. Sasagawa, T. Hanaguri, M. Takano, and
H. Takagi, J. Am. Chem. Soc. **124**, 12275 (2002). * [7] Y. Kohsaka, T.
Sasagawa, F. Ronning, T. Yoshida, C. Kim, T. Hanaguri, M. Azuma, M.
Takano, Z. X. Shen, and H. Takagi, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **72**, 1018
(2003). * [8] K. M. Shen, F. Ronning, D. H. Lu, W. S. Lee, N. J. C.
Ingle, W. Meevasana, F. Baumberger, A. Damascelli, N. P. Armitage, L. L.
Miller, Y. Kohsaka, M. Azuma, M. Takano, H. Takagi, and Z.-X. Shen,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **93**, 267002 (2004) * [9] K. M. Shen, F. Ronning, D.
H. Lu, F. Baumberger, N. J. C. Ingle, W. S. Lee, W. Meevasana, Y.
Kohsaka, M. Azuma, M. Takano, H. Takagi, and Z.-X. Shen, Science
**307**, 901 (2005). * [10] Y. Kohsaka, K. Iwaya, S. Satow, T. Hanaguri,
M. Azuma, M. Takano, and H. Takagi, Phys. Rev. Lett. **93**, 097004
(2004) * [11] T. Hanaguri, C. Lupien, Y. Kohsaka, D.-H. Lee, M. Azuma,
M. Takano, H. Takagi, and J. C. Davis, Nature **430**, 1001 (2004). *
[12] I. Yamada, M. Azuma, and M. Takano, Physica C **412-414**, 27
(2004). * [13] E. Nishibori, M. Takata, K. Kato, M. Sakata, Y. Kubota,
S. Aoyagi, Y. Kuroiwa, M. Yamakata, and N. Ikeda, Nucl. Instrum. Methods
Phys. Res. A **467-468**, 1045 (2001). * [14] M. Takata, E. Nishibori,
K. Kato, M. Sakata, and Y. Moritomo, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **68** 2190
(1999). * [15] S. Ishiwata, M. Azuma, M. Takano, E. Nishibori, M.
Takata, M. Sakata, and K. Kato, J. Mater. Chem. **12**, 3733 (2002). *
[16] T. Kamiyama, K. Oikawa, N. Tsuchiya, M Osawa, H. Asano, N.
Watanabe, M. Furusaka, S. Satoh, I. Fujikawa, T. Ishigaki, and F. Izumi,
Physica B **213-214**, 875 (1995). * [17] F. Izumi and T. Ikeda, Mater.
Sci. Forum **198**, 321 (2000). * [18] T. Ohta, F. Izumi, K. Oikawa, and
T. Kamiyama, Physica B **234-236**, 1093 (1997). * [19] M. Al-Mamouri,
P. P. Edwards, C. Greaves, and M. Slanski, Nature **369**, 382 (1994). *
[20] J. P. Attfield, A. L. Kharlanov, and J. A. McAllister, Nature
**394**, 157 (1998) * [21] H. Eisaki, N. Kaneko, D. L. Feng, A.
Damascelli, P. K. Mang, K. M. Shen, Z.-X. Shen, and M. Greven, Phys.
Rev. B **69**, 064512 (2004). * [22] D. N. Argyriou, J. D. Jorgensen, R.
L. Hitterman, Z. Hiroi, N. Kobayashi, and M. Takano, Phys. Rev. B
**51**, 8434 (1995). * [23] C. Meingast, J. Karpinski, E. Jilek, and E.
Kaldis, Physica C **209**, 591 (1993). * [24] L. Gao, Y. Y. Xue, F.
Chen, Q. Xiong, R. L. Meng, D. Ramirez, C. W. Chu, J. H. Eggert, and H.
K. Mao, Phys. Rev. B **50**, 4260 (1994). * [25] F. Nakamura, M. Kodama,
S. Sakita, Y. Maeno, and T. Fujita, Phys. Rev. B **54**, 10061 (1996).
