# Magnetic and electronic properties of antiferromagnetic PuPd₅Al₂

K. Gofryk, J-C. Griveau, E. Colineau, and J. Rebizant

European Commission, Joint Research Centre, Institute for Transuranium
Elements, Postfach 2340, 76125 Karlsruhe, Germany

(Received 28 September 2007; revised manuscript received 13 February
2008; published 12 March 2008)

###### Abstract

A compound PuPd₅Al₂ was prepared and studied by x-ray diffraction,
magnetic susceptibility, heat capacity, electrical resistivity, and
thermoelectric power measurements. The crystal structure [ZrNi₂Al₅ type
(e.g., I4/_mmm_), a = 4.1302 A, and c = 14.8428 A] was determined from
single-crystal x-ray data. The compound orders antiferromagnetically at
5.6 K and exhibits a modified Curie-Weiss behavior with m_(f) =
1.05_m__k_2 close to the intermediate coupling value (1.01_m__k_2) for
Pu^(3*) ions. Below T_(N), the specific heat and the electrical
resistivity are governed by electron-magnon scattering with a spin-wave
spectrum typical of anisotropic antiferromagnetic systems. The Seebeck
coefficient is negative in a whole temperature range and is close to -7
μV K⁻¹ at 300 K.

pacs: 10.1103/PhysRevB.77.092405 + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL REVIEW
B **77**, 092405 (2008)

## I Introduction

Transuranium intermetallics show a large variety of exotic behaviors
coming from 5_f_-ligand hybridization. Physical phenomena such as
long-range magnetic ordering, heavy-fermion ground state, and/or
"non-Fermi liquid" behavior raised a great interest to the study of
physical properties of these systems. Recently, this interest was even
increased with the discovery of unconventional superconductivity in
PuCoGa₅ and PuRhGa₅.[1, 2] While these compounds are heavy-fermion
superconductors with relatively high critical temperatures, 18.6 and 9
K, respectively, their neptunium counterparts NpCoGa₅ and NpRhGa₅ show
antiferromagnetic ordering at low temperatures.[3, 4] Surprisingly, the
first neptunium-based superconductor was only recently discovered in
NpPd₅Al₂.[5] It has been found that this material presents _d_-wave
superconductivity (_T__(c)=4.9 K) and heavy-fermion features (γ=200
mJ/mol K²).[5] This leads to the interest in the study of the physical
properties of the _R_Pd₅Al₂ (_R_= rare earth, actinide) family of
compounds. Very recently, CePd₅Al₂ was reported as an antiferromagnetic
Kondo lattice with two magnetic transitions at 2.9 and 3.9 K (Ref. [6]),
while UPd₅Al₂ remains paramagnetic down to 2 K.[7]

Motivated by all these findings and searching for Pu-based
superconductors, we have synthesized and examined the physical
properties of the other member of AnPd₅Al₂ family, namely, PuPd₅Al₂. The
compound we are interested in was studied by means of x-ray diffraction,
magnetization, electrical resistivity, and thermoelectric power
measurements performed in a wide temperature and magnetic field range
(2−300 K, 0−14 T).

## II Experimental details

Polycrystalline samples of PuPd₅Al₂ were prepared by arc melting the
stoichiometric amounts of the elemental components in a Zr-gettered
argon atmosphere. The sample was examined by x-ray single crystal and
powder diffraction methods. Phase composition was determined by
energy-dispersive x-ray analysis on a Philips XL40 scanning electron
microscope. From the inner part of the specimen, small single crystals
(∼0.03 × 0.2 × 0.05 mm³) were selected and examined on Enraf-Nonius
CAD-4 diffractometer with graphite monochromatized Mo Kα radiation. The
powder x-ray diffraction was done using a Bruker D8 diffractometer with
Cu Kα₁ radiation. The crystal structure was refined from the
single-crystal x-ray data and shown to be, like NpPd₅Al₂,[5] tetragonal
with the ZrNi₂Al₅ type (e.g., I4/_mmm_) with lattice parameters a =
4.1302 A and c = 14.8428 A. The atomic coordinates obtained were as
follows: Pu [2_a_(0, 0, 0)], Pd₁ [8_g_($\frac{1}{2},0,0.1456$)], Pd₂
[2_b_($\frac{1}{2},\frac{1}{2},0$)], and Al [4_e_(0, 0, 0.2521)]. A
sketch of the crystal structure of PuPd₅Al₂ is shown in Fig. 1.

The magnetic properties were studied using a MPMS-7 device in the
temperature range of 2−300 K and in magnetic fields up to 7 T. The
electrical resistivity was measured from

Figure 1: (Color online) Crystal structure of PuPd₅Al₂.

2 to 300 K by a PPMS-9 setup. Heat capacity experiments were performed
in the temperature range of 2.5−300 K and in magnetic fields up to 14 T
using the PPMS-14 device. The thermoelectric power was measured from 6
to 300 K in a homemade setup using pure copper as the reference
material. The measurements of all the physical properties of PuPd₅Al₂
(even using a very small mass amount of the material) were prevented
below 2 K due to the self-heating effect arising from the radioactive
decay of the ²³⁹Pu isotope (W = 1.9 mW/mg). Moreover, to avoid any
contamination risk due to radiotoxicity of plutonium, all experimental
studies were carried out using special encapsulation techniques.

## III Results and Discussion

### Magnetic properties

Figure 2 shows the temperature dependence of the inverse magnetic
susceptibility of PuPd₅Al₂. Above 10 K, the χ⁻¹(T) curve is clearly
curvilinear and may be well described by a modified Curie-Weiss law with
an effective magnetic moment of μ_(eff)=1.05μ_(B), a paramagnetic Curie
temperature of Θ_(p)=−12.5 K, and a temperature independent term χ₀=6.9
×10⁻⁴ emu/mol. The origin of the latter contribution is related to the
core-electron diamagnetism, the Pauli paramagnetism, and the Van Vleck
term. The experimental value of μ_(eff) is larger than the free Pu³⁺ ion
value expected for LS coupling (0.84μ_(B)), but it is close to
1.01μ_(B), as anticipated for intermediate coupling. Indeed, it has been
shown recently that the intermediate coupling is appropriate for the 5f
states of the Pu metal and Pu-based intermetallics.[8, 9] The negative
sign of Θ_(p) refers to antiferromagnetic exchange interactions and is
consistent with the antiferromagnetic ordering in the compound studied
(see below).

As shown in the lower inset of Fig. 2, a distinct peak in χ(T) manifests
an antiferromagnetic ordering below T_(N) =5.6 K. With increasing
magnetic field, the maximum in the magnetic susceptibility gradually
weakens and shifts to lower temperatures. The latter phenomenon
indicates the presence of a complex magnetic structure in the compound.
The upper inset in Fig. 2 displays the isothermal magnetization taken at
several temperatures. The measurements were done with increasing and
decreasing magnetic fields, and no hysteresis effect was observed. The
antiferromagnetic character of the magnetic ordering in PuPd₅Al₂ is
corroborated by a weak metamagenticlike transition at a critical field
of about 2.5 T. This can be observed in the σ(μ₀H) graph determined at
T=2 K (see the solid line in the upper inset in Fig. 2). However, the
magnetic saturation is not reached even at the strongest applied field.
For T=2 K and μ₀H=7 T, the magnetic moment extracted is 0.1μ_(B)/Pu
atom. This value is much smaller than the theoretical values calculated
for the free Pu³⁺ ion, μ_(s, LS)=0.71μ_(B) and μ_(s, in)=0.86μ_(B),
taking into account Russell-Saunders or intermediate coupling,
respectively. This large reduction of the magnetic moment is most
probably due to crystal field interactions. This clearly indicates the
splitting of the ⁶H_(5/2) ground multiplet in a tetragonal crystal field
potential.

### Heat capacity

Figure 3(a) shows the low-temperature dependence of the specific heat of
PuPd₅Al₂. A distinct λ-shaped anomaly at T_(N)=5.6 K confirms the
magnetic ordering in this compound. When applying magnetic field, the
peak gradually weakens and shifts to lower temperatures [see the inset
in Fig. 3(a)]. Above the magnetic ordering, the C_(p)/T ratio
extrapolated to T=0 K is estimated as 67 mJ/mol K². It is similar to the
Sommerfeld coefficient obtained for CePd₅Al₂ (60 mJ/mol K²).[6] In order
to estimate the magnetic contribution to the specific heat of PuPd₅Al₂,
we have measured the specific heat of ThPd₅Al₂, which is its
isostructural counterpart with an 5f electrons. With this assumption,
the magnetic contribution to specific heat ΔC(T) may be expressed by the
relation $\Delta C(T)^{\rm PuPd_{5}Al_{2}}$=
$C_{p}(T)^{\rm PuPd_{5}Al_{2}}$-$C(T)_{ph}^{\rm ThPd_{5}Al_{2}}$, as
shown in Fig. 3(b). In this analysis, our unpublished
$C(T)_{ph}^{\rm ThPd_{5}Al_{2}}$ data were used. The Sommerfeld
coefficient of ThPd₅Al₂ is 5 mJ/mol K^(2, 10) Below the Neel
temperature, the ΔC(T) curve may be well described by the model proposed
by de Medeiros _et al._ (Ref. [11]), which takes into account
excitations of antiferromagnetic spin waves over a gap in the magnon
spectrum. Assuming that the dispersion of antiferromagnetic magnons can
be approximated by the relation ω = $\sqrt{\Delta^{2}+Dk^{2}}$, in which
Δ is the spin-wave gap while D stands for the spin-wave stiffness. The
specific heat may be expressed as[11]

$$\Delta C(T)=\gamma^{\prime}T+c\Delta^{7/2}\sqrt{T}e^{-\Delta T}\Bigg{[}1+ \frac{39T}{20\Delta}+\frac{51}{32}\bigg{(}\frac{T}{\Delta}\bigg{)}^{2}\Bigg{]},$$
(1)

where the coefficient b is defined as b∝D^(−3/2),[11] The first term
describes the electronic contribution to the specific heat.

Figure 2: (Color online) Temperature dependence of the inverse magnetic
susceptibility of PuPd₅Al₂. The solid line is a modified Curie-Weiss
fit. Lower inset: low-temperature susceptibility measured in several
magnetic fields in zero field cooled (open symbols) and field cooled
(full symbols) conditions. Upper inset: magnetization versus magnetic
field taken at several temperatures and measured with increasing (open
symbols) and decreasing (full symbols) magnetic fields. The solid line
shows a straight line behavior.

Shown as a solid line in Fig. 3(b), below 4.5 K, this expression
describes very well the experimental data of PuPd₅Al₂ with the following
parameters: c = 1.04 x 10⁻² J/mol K⁴, Δ = 3.7 K, and γ^(α) = 341 mJ/mol
K². The so-obtained value of Δ is reasonable with respect to the Neel
temperature and is similar to that derived from the electrical
resistivity data (see below). The so-obtained magnetic contribution to
the specific heat provides the magnetic entropy S =
∫$\frac{\Delta C(T)}{T}dT$ shown in the inset of Fig. 3(b). At the
magnetic transition, the entropy is 5.4 J/mol K which is much smaller
than expected for a six-fold degeneracy of the ⁶H_(5/2) multiplet. It
clearly indicates a splitting of the ground multiplet in a tetragonal
crystal field potential. Moreover, at T_(N), the entropy is close to a
value of Rln 2, corresponding to a doubly degenerated ground state. The
small deviation from the expected value of Rln 2 at T_(N) may be due to
the straightforwardness of the estimation used or due to the presence of
short-range magnetic correlations.

### Transport properties

The temperature dependence of the electrical resistivity of PuPd₅Al₂ is
shown in Fig. 4(a). The overall shape and magnitude of the ρ(T) are
typical of metallic conductors and differs from the one observed in
NpPd₅Al₂ (Ref. 5). With decreasing temperature, the electrical
resistivity decreases down to a magnetic ordering temperature showing a
broad hump around 120 K. The origin of this upward structure may be
explained by strong crystal field interactions, and the position of the
hump can give an estimation of the total crystal field splitting in this
material. Just below T_(N), the resistivity exhibits a distinct maximum
at 5 K [see Fig. 4(b)]. As shown in the inset in Fig. 4(b), the
temperature dependence of the derivative of the resistivity shows a
negative divergence of the Suezaki-Mori type.[12] The Neel temperature
defined as the minimum in the $\frac{D\rho}{dT}(T)$ curve is 5.6 K,
which agrees very well with magnetic and specific heat studies. The
increase of the electrical resistivity below the Neel temperature might
be associated with an enhanced scattering of conduction electrons due to
the formation of a "magnetic" Brillouin zone

Figure 4: (Color online) (a) Temperature dependence of the electrical
resistivity (left axis) and thermoelectric power (right axis) of
PuPd₅Al₂. (b) Low-temperature part of the resistivity of PuPd₅Al₂. The
solid line is a fit of Eq. (2) to the experimental data. Inset:
low-temperature variation of the derivative of the resistivity of
PuPd₅Al₂.

Figure 3: (Color online) (a) Temperature dependence of the specific heat
of PuPd₅Al₂ (circles) and ThPd₅Al₂ (squares). Inset: low-temperature
specific heat measured in several magnetic fields. (b) the magnetic
contribution to the specific heat. The solid line is a fit of Eq. (1) to
the experimental data. Inset: low-temperature entropy of PuPd₅Al₂.

boundary in the ordered state. Another explanation might be the presence
of a gap on a part of the Fermi surface due to the formation of a
spin-density-wave state.[13] To clarify the origin of this phenomenon,
further neutron spectroscopy studies are required. Below the magnetic
phase transition, the electrical resistivity may be described by a
scattering process of conduction electrons on the antiferromagnetic spin
waves. Taking into account a similar approach and the same dispersion
relation of magnons, like in a specific heat analysis (see above), the
electrical resistivity of PuPd₅Al₂ may be expressed by [11, 14]

$$\rho(T)=\rho_{0}+a\Delta^{2}\sqrt{\frac{k_{B}T}{\Delta}}e^{-\Delta\lambda t_{B}T }\bigg{[}1+\frac{3\Delta}{2k_{B}T}+\frac{2}{15}\bigg{(}\frac{\Delta}{k_{B}T} \bigg{)}^{2}\bigg{]},$$
(2)

where Δ is the spin-wave gap and the coefficient a is related to the
spin-wave stiffness D by a σ D-[14]. Below 4.5 K, the fitting procedure
[the solid line, Fig. 4(b)] yielded the following parameters: ρ₀=6.36 μΩ
cm, a=0.07 μΩ cm/K², and Δ=3.1 K. It is worth noting that the value of
the magnon gap so obtained is similar to that derived from the specific
heat analysis (see above).

Figure 4(a) shows the temperature dependence of the thermoelectric power
of PuPd₅Al₂. At room temperature, the Seebeck coefficient is close to
−7μV/K. With decreasing temperature, the Seebeck coefficient decreases
toward zero at T=0 K. Moreover, the negative sign of the thermopower in
the whole temperature range may suggest that in PuPd₅Al₂, electrons are
main carriers in electrical and heat transport.

## IV Summary and conclusions

A compound PuPd₅Al₂ was synthesized and studied in a wide temperature
and magnetic field range. It crystallizes, like the superconducting
NpPd₅Al₂, in the tetragonal unit cell of ZrNi₂Al₅ type. All results
obtained indicate that while NpPd₅Al₂ is a heavy-fermion superconductor
at 4.9 K, PuPd₅Al₂ orders antiferromagnetically below 5.6 K. The
magnetic measurements revealed that the effective magnetic moment
obtained (1.05μ_(B)) is very close to that anticipated for an
intermediate coupling between 5f electrons (1.01μ_(B)). The presence of
the crystal field splitting of the Pu³⁺ multiplet results in the doublet
being a ground state. Below T_(N), the temperature dependencies of the
specific heat and the electrical resistivity are characteristic of
anisotropic antiferromagnets with a gap in the magnon spectrum. The
Seebeck coefficient has a value of about −7μV/K at T=300 K. Its negative
value in the whole temperature range suggests an electron domination in
electrical and heat transport. It is worth noting that the enhanced
value of the Sommerfeld coefficient obtained in PuPd₅Al₂ (γ∼67 mJ/mol K²
above magnetic transition) might suggest the presence, in this material,
of moderately enhanced Kondo interactions. However, this conclusion is
not supported by a metalliclike electrical resistivity observed in
PuPd₅Al₂. It differs significantly from the textbook examples of the
systems with Kondo interactions. Interestingly, a similar overall shape
of the temperature dependency of the electrical resistivity was observed
recently in CePd₅Al₂ reported as an antiferromagnetic Kondo lattice.[6]
In this case, the Sommerfeld coefficient is estimated as 60 mJ/mol
K^(2.6) Therefore, to shed more light on the character of the magnetic
and electronic structures of PuPd₅Al₂, future experiments such as
neutron spectroscopy, magnetoresistivity, and Hall effect measurements
are required, some of which are presently underway.

## Acknowledgments

We are grateful to D. Bouexiere and H. Thiele for technical assistance.
High purity Pu metal was made available through a loan agreement between
Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory and ITU in the frame of a
collaboration involving LLNL, Los Alamos National Laboratory, and the
U.S. Department of Energy. K.G. acknowledges the European Commission for
support in the frame of the "Training and Mobility of Researchers"
program.

## References

* [1] J. L. Sarrao, L. A. Morales, J. D. Thompson, B. L. Scott, G. R.
Stewart, F. Wastin, J. Rebizant, P. Boulet, E. Colineau, and G. H.
Lander, Nature (London) **420**, 297 (2002). * [2] F. Wastin, P. Boulet,
J. Rebizant, E. Colineau, and G. H. Lander, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter
**15**, 2279 (2003). * [3] E. Colineau, P. Javorsky, P. Boulet, F.
Wastin, J-C. Griveau, J. Rebizant, J. P. Sanchez, and G. R. Stewart,
Phys. Rev. B **69**, 184411 (2004). * [4] E. Colineau, F. Wastin, P.
Boulet, P. Javorsky, J. Rebizant, and J. P. Sanchez, J. Alloys Compd.
**386**, 57 (2005). * [5] D. Aoki, Y. Haga, T. D. Matsuda, N. Tateiwa,
S. Ikeda, Y. Homma, H. Sakai, Y. Shiokawa, E. Yamamoto, A. Nakamura, R.
Settai, and Y. Onuki, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **76**, 063701 (2007). * [6] R.
de Almeida Ribeiro, T. Onimaru, K. Umeo, M. de Abreu Avila, K. Shigeto,
and T. Takabatake, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **76**, 123710 (2007). * [7] Y.
Haga, D. Aoki, Y. Homma, S. Ikeda, T. D. Matsuda, E. Yamamoto, H. Sakai,
N. Tateiwa, N. D. Dung, A. Nakamura, Y. Shiokawa, and Y. Onuki, J.
Alloys Compd. (to be published). * [8] K. T. Moore, M. A. Wall, A. J.
Schwartz, B. W. Chung, D. K. Shuh, R. K. Schulze, and J. G. Tobin, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **90**, 196404 (2003). * [9] A. O. Shorikov, A. V. Lukoyanov,
M. A. Korotin, and V. I. Anisimov, Phys. Rev. B **72**, 024458 (2005). *
[10] K. Gofryk _et al._ (unpublished). * [11] S. N. de Medeiros, M. A.
Continentino, M. T. D. Orlando, M. B. Fontes, E. M. Baggio-Saitovitch,
A. Rosch, and A. Eichler, Physica B **281-282**, 340 (2000). * [12] Y.
Suezaki and H. Mori, Prog. Theor. Phys. **41**, 1177 (1969). * [13] A.
L. Trego and A. R. Mackintosh, Phys. Rev. **166**, 495 (1968). * [14] M.
A. Continentino, S. N. de Medeiros, M. T. D. Orlando, M. B. Fontes, and
E. M. Baggio-Saitovitch, Phys. Rev. B **64**, 012404 (2001).
