# Superconductivity above 30 K in [(Bi1-_x_Mo_x_)0.33Cu0.67]Sr2YCu2Oy.

Appearance of superconductivity by transfer of holes from a block layer
to a CuO2 layer

Shiro Kambe and Eiji Sato

Graduate School of Engineering, Yamagata University, 4-3-16, Jonan,
Yonezawa, Yamagata 992, Japan

Takaihiro Akao, Shigetoshi Ohshima, and Katsuro Okuyama

Faculty of Engineering, Yamagata University, 4-3-16, Jonan, Yonezawa,
Yamagata 992, Japan

Rika Sekine

Department of Chemistry, Shizuoka University, 836, Ohya, Shizuoka 442,
Japan

26 May 1998; revised manuscript received 17 February 1999

###### Abstract

Attention has been paid to a (Bi10.33Cu0.67)Sr2YCu2Oy compound for its
uncertain superconductivity in spite of having a large Cu valence. By
conducting combined experiments of iodometry, and chlorinemetry, Hall
voltage measurement, Rietveld analysis, and a Discrete vibrational
(DV)-_X_a calculation for (Bi0.33Cu0.67)Sr2YCu2Oy, , evidence of
localization of holes in a (Bi0.33Cu0.67)Oy block layer was found. Those
experiments suggest that about 90

## 1 Introduction

Attention has been paid to (Bi,Cu)-1212 phase with a composition of
(Bi1-_x_Cu)Sr2YCu2Oy for its uncertain superconductivity in spite of
having a Cu valence large enough to induce superconductivity. The
(Bi,Cu)-1212 phase was first prepared by Ehmann _et al._1 They reported
that the compound is superconducting below a temperature of 68 K with a
nominal composition of (Bi10.5Cu0.5)Sr2YCu2Oy. Unfortunately, it
contains impurities including a Bi-2212 phase. Afterwards Wang _et al._2
reported that the superconductivity observed by Ehmann _et al._ is not
due to the (Bi,Cu)-1212 phase but due to the impurity. It was also
reported that by sintering the powerful with a nominal composition of
(Bi0.3Cu0.7)Sr2YCu2Oy, a nearly single phase of the (Bi, Cu)-1212
sample2,3 was prepared and that annealing the sample in oxygen with a
pressure of 400 atm induced superconductivity below a temperature of 20
K.2 However, according to the X-ray diffraction (XRI) data observed by
them, impurity peaks still remained in the prepared sample. The
superconducting volume fraction estimated from a Meissner signal at 5 K
was as small as 1.5

In a previous paper,4 we reported the successful preparation of the
(Bi1-_x_Cu)Sr2YCu2Oy phase. In order to obtain the pure single phase
sample, controls of nominal composition and sintering atmosphere were
required. We also reported that a single phase of (Bi,Cu)-1212 is not
superconducting but semiconducting in spite of having a high Cu valence
larger than 2.1. Now, it is interesting to examine the origin of the
nonsuperconductivity of the (Bi,Cu)-1212 phase.

In this paper, we first focused our study on the origin of
nonsuperconductivity of (Bi1-_x_Cu)Sr2YCu2Oy. We confirmed the preparing
condition of (Bi1-_x_Cu)Sr2YCu2Oy, refined its crystal structure by
Rietveld analysis, measured its hole density, and calculated electronic
states of the CuO2 layer by DV-_X_a calculation, revealing that 90

Secondly, based on these results, we tried to make (Bi1-_x_Cu)Sr2YCu2Oy
superconducting by substitution of Bi for the other transition metals.
We found that Mo is the most helpful element for occurrence of
superconductivity. A solid solution [(Bi1-_x_Mo)0.33Cu0.67]Sr2YCu2Oy was
prepared for 0 <= x <= 1.0. From the resistivity measurements as a
function of temperature, superconductivity was shown in the region of
0.55 <= 1.0. Mo substitution increased the itinerant holes from 10 to 60

Finally, we discuss the origin of nonsuperconductivity of cuprates with
a Cu valence larger than 2.1. Part of the results have already been
published in Refs. 4-6.

## 2 Experiment

Samples of (Bi1-_x_Cu)Sr2YCu2Oy (0.5 <= x <= 0.8) and
[(Bi1-_x_Mo)0.33Cu0.67]Sr2YCu2Oy (0.0 <= x <= 1.0) were prepared by a
conventional mixing method.4 As shown in Fig. 1, a pellet was prepared
by mixing Bi2O3, SrCO3, Y2O3, CuO, and MoO3 in an agate mortar,
calcining at 850-900 degC in air for 5-10 h, grinding it in the mortar
again, pressing it into a pellet, and then sintering at 980 degC in air
for 20-60 h. After sintering, the pellet was quenched to a room
temperature on a metal plate or cooled slowly in a furnace. After
grinding it to powder, a single phase of the (Bi,Cu)-1212 powder was
ascertained by an XRD method. In order to obtain an optimum hole
concentration, oxygen content was varied by annealing in an atmosphere
of N2 or O2.

The cation ratio of the prepared sample determined by inductively
coupled plasma (ICP) atomic emission spectroscopy measurement was
consistent with the nominal ratio within 5

The total oxygen content was determined by an iodometric method. Bi and
Cu valences were determined separately by combining the iodometric and
the chlorine production method.8 Here, the valence of Mo is assumed to
be Mo(VI), respectively. If a Mo(II or V) is to exist, the Cu valence
should be corrected. According to the Mott-Hubbard theory, by
subtracting 2 from the Cu valence, a number of holes per Cu v was
calculated.

Since the v represents an average number of holes per Cu, if the valence
of Cu in the (Bi,Cu,O) layer is different from that in the CuO2 layer,
the number of holes in the (Bi,Cu,O) layer or CuO2 layer should be
corrected. Nevertheless, the whole number of holes per unit cell is not
changed, even though the Cu in the (Bi,Cu,O) layer has a different
valence than that in the CuO2 layer. Therefore, we can estimate the
whole number of holes v in a unit cell correctly from the Cu valence.

Resistivity-temperature curves (10 K T 300 K) were measured by a
conventional four-probe method. The superconducting properties were also
determined by measuring the temperature dependence of ac magnetic
susceptibility, by the field cooling method (Meissner effect). The
magnetic field of 2 Oe with a frequency of 313 Hz was applied to the
reground sample.

For the Hall voltage measurement, low resistance contacts to the sample
(about 8 mm x 5 mm x 1 mm in size) were made by using conducting silver
paste. A four-wire ac resistance bridge (LR-400, Linear Research, Inc.)
was used for measuring Hall voltage across the Hall terminals. A current
of 1-10 mA was flowed through the sample and the applied magnetic field
strength was fixed at +-1.5 T.

From the Hall coefficient R_(H), hole density n_(H) was induced from the
following equation:

$$n_{H} = \frac{1}{qR_{H}},$$

where q represents the elementary electric charge. Assuming that the
holes are located in the CuO2 layer, the number of holes per Cu p is
calculated by

$$p = \frac{n_{H}V}{s},$$

where V and s represent the unit cell volume and the number of Cu in the
unit cell, respectively. The ratio of delocalized holes r was estimated
by the equation

$$r = \frac{p}{v},$$

where u represents the number of holes per Cu estimated from the Cu
valence by the Mott-Hubbard theory and is determined by the following
equation:

$$v = ({\rm Cu\kern0.5em}\kern0.5em)\kern-0.5em({\rm Cu\kern0.5em}\kern0.5em)-2.$$

The numerical computation was carried out by a DV-_X_a_ method.9 The
exchange parameter a is fixed at 0.7 through all calculations. The
numerical atomic orbitals of _1s_*_4p for Cu and of 1_s_*_2p for O are
utilized for basis functions of the linear combination of atomic
orbitals (LCAO).

Figure 2: XRD patterns of (Bi,Cu)-1212 samples synthesized under (a)
slowly cooled and (b) quenched condition. Quenching drastically
decreases the impurity phase.

## III Results and Discussion

### (Bi_(1 − x)Cu_(x))Sr₂YCu₂O_(y) phase

_Preparation of (Bi_(1 − x)Cu_(x))Sr₂YCu₂O_(y)._ Figures 2(a) and 2(b)
show XRD patterns of (Bi,Cu)-1212 samples synthesized under slowly
cooled and quenched conditions, respectively. As shown in Fig. 2,
impurity phases such as Bi-2212, Cu₂Y₂O₅, and SrY₂O₄ were drastically
decreased by the quenching treatment. Therefore, all the samples
hereafter were fabricated by the quenching method.

In order to confirm an optimum Bi/Cu ratio, the x value in the
(Bi_(1 − x)Cu_(x))Sr₂YCu₂O_(y) phase was successively changed between
0.5 and 0.8. Figure 3 shows the change in XRD peaks as a function of x,
showing that in a very narrow region around x = 0.67, a single phase of
the (Bi,Cu)-1212 sample was prepared.

For the oxygen-annealed sample of (Bi_(0.33)Cu_(0.67))Sr₂YCu₂O_(y) ,
Rietveld analysis was carried out. Refined crystallographic data for
this sample are displayed in Fig. 4 and Table I. The interatomic
distances are listed in Table II. We assumed that the blocking layer has
two oxygen sites O(3) and O(4), as shown in Fig. 5. Reliability factor
_R__w__p_ for the model was 5.79

As shown in Fig. 6, by changing the annealing atmosphere, oxygen content
was varied from 6.77 to 6.88 together with a change in the Cu valence
from 2.04 to 2.13. A Bi valence against oxygen content y is also
displayed in Fig. 6, indicating that an increase in oxygen content did
not raise the Bi valence: the Bi valence was about 3.29 for all the
samples while the Cu valence was varied between 2.04 and 2.13. From the
fact that the Cu valence 2.13 is equal to that of a 60-K-class
YBa₂Cu₃O_(6.76) superconductor, we think that the Cu valence 2.13 is
large enough to induce superconductivity and that optimization of the Cu
valence for occurrence of

Figure 4: An XRD pattern of (Bi_(0.33)Cu_(0.67))Sr₂YCu₂O_(y) . The
dotted and solid lines represent an observed pattern and that refined by
Rietveld analysis, respectively. A pattern at the bottom is difference
between the observed and refined intensities.

superconductivity is achieved for this sample. In Fig. 7, the dependence
of resistivity on temperature is shown. An increase in the oxygen
content y from 6.77 to 6.88 led to a drastic decrease in resistivity
from 2.06×10² to 1.35×10⁻¹Ω cm at 100 K. However, the sample, whose Cu
valence was optimized to be 2.13, was not superconducting but still
semiconducting.

According to the Hall effect measurement, the hole density of the
oxygen-annealed sample was 3.6×10²⁰ cm⁻³ at room temperature. This value
is much smaller than 3.1×10²¹ cm⁻³ for a YBa₂Cu₃O_(6.76) sample.[10] In
Fig. 8, the hole density n_(H) and the ratio of itinerant holes p/v are
shown. With an increase in the Cu valence from 2.08 to 2.16, the hole
density was increased from 1.0×10¹⁹ to 3.6×10²⁰ cm⁻³. These values of
hole density measured by the Hall effect measurement are much smaller
than those calculated by the Mott-Hubbard model assuming that an
increase in the Cu valence from 2.0 to 3.0 dopes one hole to the Cu ion
[represented by a broken line in Fig. 8(a)], resulting that the hole
density measured by the Hall voltage measurement did not reach the
hatched optimum hole density region, necessary for the occurrence of
superconductivity. In spite of the optimization of the Cu valence for
the (Bi,Cu)-1212 phase, its hole density was extremely small in
comparison with the YBa₂Cu₃O_(6.76) superconductor. Therefore, it is
revealed that holes induced by the excess oxygen are not doped to the
CuO₂ plane sufficiently. While the ratio of itinerant holes p/v in
Bi-based superconductors was as large as 100-200

The first site where holes may be localized is apical oxygen. The
distance between the apical oxygen and the CuO₂ plane of the
(Bi,Cu)-1212 phase is about 2.28 A, which is 0.15 A shorter than that of
the Bi-2212 phase. The extremely short Cu-O(apex) distance may localize
holes at the apical

Figure 7: The dependence of resistivity on the temperature for
(Bi_(0.33)Cu_(0.67))Sr₂YCu₂O_(y). •, □, and □ indicate samples annealed
in O₂, air, and N₂, respectively.

oxygen and suppress its superconductivity. The second site is in the
(Bi,Cu)O_(1 + z) layer. We estimated the Cu valence to be 2.13. This is
indeed the case if the Cu(1) and the Cu(2) valences are equal. If the
valence of the Cu(1) atom in the (Bi,Cu)O_(1 + z) plane is larger than
the expected one, the hole density in the CuO₂ plane will be smaller
than the estimated value 2.13. Furthermore, the Bi valence in the
(Bi,Cu)O_(1 + z) layer of the (Bi,Cu)-1212 phase is 3.29, which is
relatively high compared with 3.03−3.17, those of the Bi-2212
superconductors,[11] suggesting that the holes may be localized in the
(Bi,Cu)O_(1 + z) layer. In order to elucidate where the holes are
localized, electronic states of the CuO₂ layer were calculated by a
DV-Xα molecular orbital calculation method.

_Simulation of electronic structure of (Bi_(0.33)Cu_(0.67))Sr₂YCu₂O_(y)
by the DV-Xα method._ We believe that the nonsuperconductivity of the
(Bi_(0.33)Cu_(0.67))Sr₂YCu₂O_(y) is strongly correlated with the
microstructure of the CuO₂ layer. Consequently, the DV-Xα method was
applied to a distorted pyramidal CuO₅ cluster in the
(Bi_(0.33)Cu_(0.67))Sr₂YCu₂O_(y). The structure of the CuO₅ cluster is
shown in Fig. 9. Three structural parameters used for the CuO₅ cluster
are the Cu-O(plane) length, the Cu-O(apex) length, and buckling. The
symmetrized orbital of the C₄V group was used. By changing the total
electron number in the CuO₅ cluster, the hole density was controlled by
changing the number of total electrons in the cluster. We used
O_(1s)-O_(2p) and Cu_(1s)-Cu_(4p) orbitals as the ground state function.

In this case, only the pyramidal CuO₅ cluster was considered for the
calculation and no external electric field was considered. The
electronic states of the CuO₅ cluster in the Bi-2212 and Y-123
superconductors were compared with that of
(Bi_(0.33)Cu_(0.67))Sr₂YCu₂O_(y). In particular, we focused our
calculation on the localization of holes at apical oxygen. The
structural parameters of the Bi-2212 and Y-123 superconductors were
cited from Imai _et al._[12] and Izumi _et al._[13], respectively. In
this calculation, 0.16 of holes were doped into the
(Bi_(0.33)Cu_(0.67))Sr₂YCu₂O_(y), Bi-2212, and Y-123 phases. Thus, the
calculation for (CuO₃)^(−7.84) was carried out. All parameters of the
CuO₅ cluster used for DV-Xα calculation are listed in Table 3.

The molecular orbital energy levels near the Fermi level (E_(r))
calculated by the DV-Xα method are shown in Fig. 10. Here, the solid and
dashed lines correspond to the occupied and the unoccupied orbitals,
respectively. The notations at the right side such as 8A1, 4E, etc.,
denote the irreducible representation of the C4_v_ point group and the
sequential number of each irreducible group. The molecular orbital with
the same notation is connected by the dashed and dotted lines. First of
all, we are aware that the change in the sequence of molecular orbitals
for each model is small. This is because the electronic structure is not
largely changed by the slight changes in geometry between the models for
the (Bi, Cu)-1212, Bi-2201, and Y-123 systems. Especially, the hole
doped level is the 5B1 state for all clusters, which are constituted by
the hybridized Cu3d_(x2 − y2) and O2p_(xy) orbitals of planar oxygens.
Therefore, not only for the Bi-2212 and Y-123 superconductors but for
the (Bi,Cu)-1212 phase, a hole located in the CuO₅ cluster is doped to
the Cu-O(plane) orbital, resulting in holes that will be contributed to
the electric conduction.

The hole distribution on each element was calculated from effective
charges obtained by a Mulliken population analysis.[9] Here, the hole
number is defined by the subtraction of the formal charge from the
effective charge. The hole

Figure 8: Hole density (n_(h)) and ratio of itinerant holes (p/v)
against Cu valence.

Figure 9: Structure of the CuO₅ cluster.

numbers thus obtained are listed in Table 4. The doped holes were mainly
distributed to the O(plane) while a few holes were distributed to the
O(apex) and Cu(plane). However, a slight difference exists in the hole
distribution to the O(apex). About 10

From the DV-χα calculation, it is found that if a hole is doped to the
CuO₅ cluster, the holes will be located at the Cu-O(plane) orbital,
resulting in the (Bi,Cu)-1212 phase showing a metallic property.
Considering that the hole density measured by the Hall effect is much
smaller than that calculated by the Mott-Hubbard model as described
above, it is suggested that a hole is not doped to the CuO₅ cluster but
localized in the (Bi,Cu)O, block layer. Thus, the origin of
nonsuperconductivity of (Bi,Cu)-1212 is found to be localization of
holes in the block layer. It is promising to substitute the blocking
layer for another element to inhibit the localization of holes in the
(Bi,Cu)O₂ block layer.

**B. [M${}_{{\bf 0},{\bf 3}}$Cu${}_{{\bf 0},{\bf 6}}$]Sr₂YCu₂O_(y)**

As described above, it was found that [Bi_(0.33)Cu_(0.67)]Sr₂YCu₂O_(y)
does not exhibit superconductivity because of the localization of holes
in the block layer. So, we tried to make the
[Bi_(0.33)Cu_(0.67)]Sr₂YCu₂O_(y) superconducting by substitution of Bi
for the other elements. We examined various metal elements for the
substitution of Bi. We referred to the compounds of
(_M_(x)_Cu_(1 − x)_)Sr₂YCu₂O_(y) (Refs. [14 and 15]) to choose the most
promising element (_M_ = Li, Co, Ni, Zn, Ph, Al, Ga, In, As, Cr, Fe, Ge,
Sn, Se, Ti, Zr, Ru, Pt, V, Nb, Ta, Mo, W, Re, and Os).

When the element, M was Co, Al, Ga, Fe, Ti, Cr, Ge, V, Mo, W, and Re, a
single phase of 1212 phase was formed. Among these single-phase
compounds, that with M = Mo exhibited superconductivity above 30 K as
shown in Fig. 11.

**C.
[(Bi_(1 − x)Mo_(x))${}_{{\bf 0},{\bf 3}}$Cu${}_{{\bf 0},{\bf 6}}$]Sr₂YCu₂O_(y)**

From the result of Sec. IV.2, a solid solution between the (Bi,Cu)-1212
phase and the (Mo,Cu)-1212 phase appears to be suitable for inducing
superconductivity. Therefore, we ex

  ---------------- -------------- --------- --------
                    (Bi,Cu)-1212   Bi-2212   Y-123
     Cu(plane)         −0.393       −0.51    −0.415
      O(apex)          0.019        0.016    0.031
   O(plane) (×4)       0.133        0.164    0.136
       Total            0.16        0.16      0.16
   O (apex)/total      11.8%        10.0%    19.4%
  ---------------- -------------- --------- --------

Table 4: The doped hole distribution on each element.

Figure 10: Molecular orbital energy levels near Fermi level (E_(f))
calculated by the DV-Xα method.

amined a range of the solid solution represented by x in
[(Bi_(1 − x)Mo_(x))_(0.33)Cu_(0.67)]Sr₂YCu₂O_(y). Figure 12 shows the
XRD patterns for (Bi,Mo,Cu)-1212 samples prepared under various Bi/Mo
ratios (0 <= x <= 1.0). In the range 0 <= x <= 1.0, no peaks
attributable to impurity were observed, indicating that a single phase
of the (Bi,Mo,Cu)-1212 was prepared in a whole range between
(Bi0,33Cu0.67)-1212 and (Mo0.33Cu0.67)-1212.

For the (Bi,Mo,Cu)-1212 phases, dependence of resistivity on temperature
is shown in Fig. 13(a). The resistivity of a Mo-free (_x_ = 0) sample
was so large that its resistivity was plotted with a scale of 0.1. The
substitution of Mo for Bi led to a drastic decrease in resistivity.
Finally, when x went up to over 0.55, a superconducting transition was
observed. In Fig. 13(b), dependence of magnetic susceptibility on
temperature is shown, revealing that bulk superconductivity is observed
for samples with x = 0.8 and 1.0.

In order to estimate the volume fraction of the Meissner effect of the
[(Bi_(1 − x)Mo_(x))_(0.33)Cu_(0.67)]Sr₂YCu₂O_(y) (_x_ = 0)
superconductor, we compared that with that of the YBa₂Cu₃O_(y)
superconductor. While the drop of the output by the Meissner effect of
YBa₂Cu₃O_(y) was − 6.0x10⁻³ V/g at 22 K, that of
[(Bi_(1 − x)Mo_(x))_(0.33)Cu_(0.67)]Sr₂YCu₂O_(y) (_x_ = 0) was − 2.0
x10⁻³ V/g at 22 K, indicating that the volume fraction of the Meissner
effect of [(Bi_(1 − x)Mo_(x))_(0.33)Cu_(0.67)]Sr₂YCu₂O_(y) (_x_ = 0) was
as large as one-third of that of the YBa₂Cu₃O_(y) at 22 K. Even if the
volume fraction of the Meissner effect of YBa₂Cu₃O_(y) is as low as 30

A correlation between the substitution ratio x and transition
temperature ($T_{c}^{\rm on}$) is shown in Fig. 14. Superconductivity

Figure 14: $T_{c}^{\rm on}$ against composition parameter x in
[(Bi_(1 − x)Mo_(x))_(0.33)Cu_(0.67)]Sr₂YCu₂O_(y). • and ○ represent
$T_{c}^{\rm on}$ values measured by resistivity and magnetic
susceptibility, respectively.

ity is observed for the sample with 0.55 <= x <= 1.0. In particular, for
the samples with x = 0.55 - 1.0, the maximum _T_cen above 30 K was
attained.

In order to clarify whether or not the Mo substitution delocalizes holes
in the block layer, oxygen contents and Cu valences of the
[(Bi1-Mo)0.33Cu0.67]Sr2YCu2Oy samples were measured. As shown in Fig.
15, the oxygen content y was increased with an increase in x, although
there was a slight drop for the sample with x = 0.6. On the other hand,
the Cu valence once increased with an increase in x from 0 to 0.2 in the
[(Bi1-_x_Mo)0.33Cu0.67]Sr2YCu2Oy. However, a further increase in x above
0.2 led to a decrease in the Cu valence. Here, the valences of Bi and Mo
are assumed to be Bi(III) and Mo(VI), respectively. In Fig. 16, the
values of _T_cen were plotted against the Cu valence, showing that the
maximum _T_cen of 37 K is obtained for the sample with a Cu valence of
2.19. Since the whole curve appears to be bell shaped as was frequently
observed in high-_T_cen superconductors,6,16-18 the samples, whose Cu
valence is over 2.21, should be overdoped and metallic. Nevertheless,
the electronic property of such samples was not metallic but
semiconducting, suggesting that the samples are in the underdoped
region. Therefore, it is difficult to explain the change in _T_c simply
by a change in the Cu valence.

We measured hole density (_nH_) at room temperature from the Hall
coefficient. As shown in Fig. 17, with an increase in Mo substitution, x
led to an increase in the hole density (_nH_). Superconductivity occurs
when _nH_ exceeds 1.0 x 1021/cm3. Based on the Mott-Hubbard theory, it
has been believed that an increase in the hole density leads to an
increase in the Cu valence. For the [(Bi1-_x_Mo)0.33Cu0.67]Sr2YCu2Oy
phase, however, the increase in the hole density led to a decrease in
the Cu valence, indicating that a Cu valence is not an appropriate
barometer for estimating its hole density.

For the purpose of investigating the cause of the behavior against the
Mott-Hubbard theory, Rietveld analysis8 was carried out for all the
(Bi,Mo,Cu)-1212 samples. For example, a

Table 6: Nonsuperconducting cuprates with a high Cu valence (�2.1).

## References

* [1] A. Ehmann, S. Kemmler-Sack, S. Losch, M. Shlinchenmaier, E.
Wischert, P. Zoller, T. Nissel, and R. P. Huebener, Physica C **198**, 1
(1992). * [2] J. Wang, S. Takano, M. Wakata, R. Usami, K. Hamada, A.
Fukuoka, and H. Yamauchi, Physica C **219**, 33 (1994). * [3] M. Wakata,
S. Takano, J. Wang, A. Fukuoka, K. Isawa, and H. Yamauchi, Physica C
**222**, 33 (1994). * [4] S. Kambe, T. Akao, I. Shime, S. Ohshima, and
K. Okuyama, _Advances in Superconductivity VI_ (Springer-Verlag, Tokyo,
1994), p. 339. * [5] S. Kambe, T. Akao, I. Shime, S. Ohshima, and K.
Okuyama, Mater. Sci. Eng., B **32**, 57 (1995). * [6] S. Kambe, T.
Matsuoka, M. Kawai, and M. Takahashi, Physica C **165**, 25 (1990). *
[7] F. Izumi, _The Rietveld Method_, edited by R. A. Young (Oxford
University Press, Oxford, 1993), Chap. 13. * [8] Y. Idemoto and K.
Fueki, Physica C **168**, 167 (1990). * [9] H. Adachi, M. Tsukada, and
C. Satoko, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **45**, 875 (1978). * [10] Z. Z. Wang, J.
Clayhold, N. P. Ong, J. M. Tarascon, L. H. Greene, W. R. McKinnon, and
G. W. Hull, Phys. Rev. B **36**, 7222 (1987). * [11] S. Kambe, Y.
Murakoshi, R. Sekine, M. Kawai, K. Yamada, S. Ohshima, and K. Okuyama,
Physica C **190**, 139 (1991). * [12] K. Imai, I. Nakai, T. Kawashima,
S. Sueno, and A. Ono, Jpn. J. Appl. Phys. **27**, 1661 (1988). * [13] F.
Izumi, H. Asano T. Ishigaki, E. Takayama-Muromachi, Y. Uchida, N.
Watanabe, and T. Nishikawa, Jpn. J. Appl. Phys., Part 2 **26**, L649
(1987). * [14] T. Den and T. Kobayashi, Physica C **196**, 141 (1992). *
[15] A. Ono, Jpn. J. Appl. Phys., Part 2 **32**, L4517 (1993). * [16] A.
Maeda, M. Hase, I. Tsukada, K. Noda, S. Takebayashi, and K. Uchinokura,
Phys. Rev. B **41**, 6418 (1990). * [17] T. Tamegai, N. Koga, K. Suzuki,
M. Ichihara, F. Sakai, and Y. Iye, Jpn. J. Appl. Phys., Part 2 **28**,
L112 (1989). * [18] A. Manthinam and J. B. Goodenough, Appl. Phys. Lett.
**53**, 420 (1988). * [19] I. D. Brown and D. Aleimatt, Acta
Crystallogr., Sect. B: Struct. Sci. **41**, 244 (1985). * [20] J. Ren,
D. Jung, M.-H. Whangbo, J.-M. Tarascon, Y. LePage, W. R. Mckinnon, and
C. C. Torardi, Physica C **158**, 501 (1989). * [21] C. C. Torardi, D.
Jung, D. B. Kang, J. Ren, and M.-H. Wangbo, in _High Temperature
Superconductors: Relationships Between Properties, Structure, and Solid
State Chemistry_, edited by J. R. Jorgensen _et al._, MRS Symposia
Proceedings No. 156 (Materials Research Society, Pittsburgh, 1989), p.
295. * [22] S. Kambe, G. Samukawa, K. Yamaguchi, O. Ishii, I. Shime, T.
Nomura, S. Ohshima, K. Okuyama, T. Itoh, H. Suematsu, and H. Yamauchi,
Solid State Ionics **108**, 283 (1998). * [23] S. Ohshima, N. Tanaka, S.
Kambe, and K. Okuyama, Jpn. J. Appl. Phys. **33**, 1314 (1994). * [24]
R. Fehrenbacher and T. M. Rice, Phys. Rev. Lett. **70**, 3471 (1993).
