# Superconductivity in 122-type antimonide BaPt₂Sb₂

Motoharu Imai,¹ Soshi Ibuka,^(1,) Naoki Kikugawa,¹ Taichi Terashima,²
Shinya Uji,² Takeshi Yajima,^(3, 4) Hiroshi Kageyama,³ and Izumi Hase⁵

Present address: Institute of Materials Structure Science, High Energy
Accelerator Research Organization, 203-1 Shirakata, Tokai, Ibaraki
319-1106, Japan. Superconducting Properties Unit, National Institute for
Materials Science, 1-2-1 Sengen, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 305-0047, Japan

²Superconducting Properties Unit, National Institute for Materials
Science, 3-13 Sakura, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 305-0003, Japan

³Graduate School of Engineering, Kyoto University, Nishikyo-ku, Kyoto
615-8510, Japan

⁴Institute for Solid State Physics, University of Tokyo, 5-1-5
Kashiwanoha, Kashiwa, Chiba 277-8581, Japan

⁵Electronics and Photonics Research Institute, National Institute of
Advanced Industrial Science and Technology, AIST Central 2, 1-1-4
Umezono, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 305-8568, Japan

###### Abstract

The crystal structure, superconducting properties, and electronic
structure of the novel superconducting 122-type antimonide BaPt₂Sb₂ have
been studied by measurements of powder x-ray diffraction patterns,
electrical resistivity, a magnetic susceptibility, specific heat, and by
_ab initio_ calculations. The material crystallizes in a new monoclinic
variant of the CaBe₂Ge₂-type structure, in which Pt₂Sb₂ layers that
consist of PtSb₄ tetrahedra, and Sb₂Pt₂ layers that consist of SbPt₄
tetrahedra, are stacked alternatively, with Ba atoms located between
them. Measurements of electrical resistivity, ac magnetic
susceptibility, and specific heat revealed that BaPt₂Sb₂ is a
superconducting material with a critical temperature of 1.8 K. The
electronic heat capacity coefficient and the Debye temperature were 8.6
(2) mJ/mol K² and 146(4) K, respectively. The upper critical field and
the Ginzburg-Landau coherent length were determined to be 0.27 T and 35
nm, respectively. The calculations showed that the material has two
three-dimensional Fermi surfaces (FSs) and two two-dimensional FSs,
leading to anisotropic transport properties. The d states of the Pt
atoms in the Pt₂Sb₂ layers are the main contributors to the density of
states at the Fermi level. A comparison between experimental and
calculated results indicates that BaPt₂Sb₂ is a superconducting material
with moderate coupling.

doi:10.1103/PhysRevB.91.014513

22 September 201413 January 2015

## I Introduction

The discovery of superconductivity with a critical temperature T_(C) of
26 K in LaFeAs(O,F) [1] has stimulated studies on superconducting iron
pnictides, and various systems such as 1111, 122, and 11 have been
discovered [2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9]. AFe₂As₂ (_A_ = Ba, Sr, Ca, or Eu)
is the parent material for the superconducting 122 iron pnictides.
Partial substitution of A, Fe, or As, or pressurization induces
superconductivity with a relatively high T_(C). For example, (Ba,
K)Fe₂As₂ and (Ca, La)Fe₂(As, P₂) have a T_(C) of 38 and 45 K,
respectively [10, 11]. AFe₂As₂ crystallizes with a ThCr₂Si₂-type
structure, in which A atoms are located between Fe₂As₂ layers. Each
Fe₂As₂ layer comprises a square lattice of Fe atoms, each of which is
surrounded by four As atoms in a tetrahedral coordination.

Superconductivity has also been observed in iron-free pnictides with a
ThCr₂Si₂-type or related structure, although their T_(C) values were
relatively low [12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19]. SrPt₂As₂ is a
superconductor with a T_(C) of 5.4 K [20]. It crystallizes in a
modulated orthorhombic variant of the CaBe₂Ge₂-type structure, which is
a derivative of the ThCr₂Si₂-type structure [21]. In CaBe₂Ge₂-type
SrPt₂As₂, Sr atoms are sandwiched between two kinds of layers. One is a
Pt₂As₂ layer, which is a similar structure to the Fe₂As₂ layer in
_A_Fe₂As₂. The other is an As₂Pt₂ layer, in which As atoms form a square
lattice, with each being surrounded by four Pt atoms in a tetrahedral
coordination. The electronic structure has been calculated for
ThCr₂Si₂-type SrPt₂As₂, which is a hypothetical material, and
CaBe₂Ge₂-type SrPt₂As₂[22]. The results indicated that in the latter
material, the Fermi surfaces (FSs) had characteristics that were
intermediate between those for AFe₂As₂ and ThCr₂Si₂-phase iron-free
pnictides. AFe₂As₂ has two-dimensional (2D) FSS [2, 3, 5, 6, 23, 24],
while ThCr₂Si₂-type iron-free pnictides have three-dimensional (3D) FS
[25, 26, 27, 28, 29]. CaBe₂Ge₂-type SrPt₂As₂ has two 2D FSs and two 3D
FSs. The coexistence of 2D and 3D FSs has also been reported for
CaBe₂Ge₂-type BaPd₂Sb₂[29]. Thus, some CaBe₂Ge₂-type iron-free pnictides
are positioned between ThCr₂Si₂-type iron pnictides and ThCr₂Si₂-type
iron-free pnictides from the viewpoint of ferrimology. Furthermore, the
coexistence of 2D and 3D FSs is expected to cause multigap
superconductivity, as in the case of MgB₂[30, 31], and this is an area
of considerable interest in the field of superconductivity. Therefore,
searching for superconducting CaBe₂Ge₂-type pnictides and studying their
superconducting properties are important with regard to forming a
systematic understanding of superconductivity in 122 pnictides.

However, superconducting materials that are structurally related to
iron-based superconductors are limited to phosphides and arsenides.
Recently, the 122 antimonide SrPt₂Sb₂ has been reported to be a
superconductor with a T_(C) of 2.1 K [32]. To the best of our knowledge,
this is the first report of a superconducting 122 antimonide that is
related to superconducting iron pnictides. As previously reported, the
crystal structure of SrPt₂Sb₂ is different to that of CaBe₂Ge₂[21].
Although a precise analysis of the crystal structure needs to be
performed, it is possibly related to the CaBe₂Ge₂-type structure. Since
SrPt₂Sb₂ isovalent to SrPt₂As₂ and deduced to have a crystal structure
related to that of CaBe₂Ge₂, SrPt₂Sb is expected to have both 3D and 2D
FSs, and to exhibit physical properties that reflect this.

In this paper, we report on the successful synthesis of BaPt₂Sb₂, its
crystal and electronic structures, and the appearance of
superconductivity. To the best of our knowledge, BaPt₂Sb₂ is a novel
material that has not so far been reported. A powder x-ray diffraction
(XRD) analysis indicates that it crystallizes in a monoclinic variant of
the CaBe₂Ge₂-type structure. Measurements of electrical resistivity, ac
magnetic susceptibility, and specific heat reveal that BaPt₂Sb₂ is a
superconducting material with a $T_{\rm C}$ of 1.82 K. _Ab initio_
calculations demonstrate that it has 3D and 2D FSs, and that the main
contribution to the density of states at the Fermi level $N(E_{\rm F})$,
which is responsible for its superconductivity, is from the d states of
Pt.

## II Experimental Methods

The starting materials were Ba (purity 99.9

The crystal structure was examined by powder XRD using a Bragg-Brentano
diffractometer (RINT-TTR III, Rigaku) with Cu Kα radiation (40 kV, 300
mA), and a step size of 0.02^(∘) in the 2θ range of 15.0^(∘)-120.0^(∘)
at room temperature. A fine powder sample was mounted on a glass plate
holder with a depth of 0.3 mm. The XRD pattern was analyzed by the
direct-space method with a simulated annealing algorithm, and
subsequently refined by the Rietveld method [33] using the software
"Fullprof" [34]. The background was modeled using a six-coefficient
polynomial function.

The electrical resistivity ρ at temperatures ranging from 1.8 to 300.0 K
was measured by a four-probe method using a physical properties
measurement system (PPMS, Quantum Design Co.). The magnetic field
dependence of ρ was determined using a standard ac technique at a
frequency (f) of ∼15 Hz.

The ac susceptibility
$\chi_{\rm ac}=\chi^{\prime}-i\,\chi^{\prime\prime}$ was evaluated by a
mutual-inductance method with an ac modulation field of
$\mu_{0}\,H_{\rm ac}\sim 0.037\,$mT and f∼67 Hz using the same sample
used for the ac resistivity measurements. The sample was cooled using a
dilution fridge that was equipped with a superconducting magnet for
applying an external field. The specific heat was measured by a
relaxation method using the PPMS.

In order to investigate the electronic structure of BaPt₂Sb₂, _ab
initio_ band calculations were performed for this compound. The
full-potential linearized augmented plane-wave (FLAPW) scheme was used
and the exchange-correlation potential was constructed within the
local-density approximation. These were implemented using the kansai-94
and tspace[35] computer codes. The space group was C2/m (No. 12), and
the lattice constants and atomic parameters were set to experimentally
observed values (this work). The muffin-tin radii used in this
calculation were 2.6 bohrs for Ba, 2.4 bohrs for Pt, and 2.3 bohrs for
Sb. For the plane-wave basis functions, about 1000 LAPWs were used.
Since this compound contains the heavy atoms Pt and Sb, the spin-orbit
interaction (SOI) was included using a second-variational approach [36].
In this scheme, a scalar-relativistic calculation was first performed,
and the SOI was then included iteratively.

## III Results and Discussion

### Crystal structure

Figure 1 shows a powder XRD pattern for BaPt₂Sb₂ together with the
results of a Rietveld analysis. The observed pattern can be reproduced
well by assuming that BaPt₂Sb₂ has a monoclinic structure with the
parameters shown in Table 1, and that a small amount (0.8 mol

Figure 1: (Color online) Powder XRD pattern for BaPt₂Sb₂. The red points
and black line represent observed and calculated intensities.
respectively. The difference between the two intensities is indicated by
the blue line shifted by −7000 counts. Peak positions for BaPt₂Sb₂ and
the PtSb impurity are labeled by green and purple vertical bars located
at −2000 and −4000 counts, respectively.

layers that consist of SbPt₄ tetrahedra. These layers are stacked
alternatively along the [001] direction, with Ba atoms between them.
This crystal structure is similar to that for CaBe₂Ge₂, but some
differences exist. First, the angle between the c axis and the a-b
plane, $\beta_{\rm{uc}}$, is 91.227^(∘), whereas the three angles
$\alpha_{\rm{uc}}$, $\beta_{\rm{uc}}$, and $\gamma_{\rm{uc}}$, are
90^(∘) in the CaBe₂Ge₂-type structure [Fig. 2(d)]. Second, the Pt1 (or
Sb1) atoms form a deformed square lattice in the Pt₂Sb₂ (or Sb₂Pt₂)
layers in the proposed structure, whereas Pt (or Sb) atoms form a square
lattice in the Pt₂Sb₂ (or Sb₂Pt₂) layers in CaBe₂Ge₂-type BaPt₂Sb₂
(hypothetical) as shown in Figs. 2(e) and 2(f). The shape of the lattice
formed by Pt1 (or Sb1) atoms is isosceles trapezoid, and the degree of
deformation in the Pt1 lattice is larger than that for Sb1 atoms. The
Pt1 (or Sb1) atoms are aligned along the b-axis direction, whereas they
form a zigzag pattern along the a-axis direction. Third, the Pt1 (or
Sb1) deformed square lattice in the proposed structure is almost
parallel to the a and b axes, whereas the square lattice in the
CaBe₂Ge₂-type structure is rotated 45^(∘) relative to the a and b axes
[Figs. 2(e) and 2(f)].

A monoclinic variant of the CaBe₂Ge₂-type structure has been reported in
materials such as LnPt₂Ge₂ (Ln = La - Dy) [37] and a high-pressure phase
of SrPt₂As₂[21], and this variant is known as the LaPt₂Ge₂-type
structure. The LaPt₂Ge₂-type structure can be obtained from the
CaBe₂Ge₂-type structure by changing the b-axis length and increasing the
unit-cell angle β from 90^(∘) by several tenths of a degree. The
relation between the unit-cell axis and the square Pt lattice is
different for the LaPt₂Ge₂-type structure and the proposed crystal
structure of BaPt₂Sb₂. In the LaPt₂Ge₂-type structure, the square
lattice is rotated by 45^(∘) relative to the a and b axes, as in the
case of the CaBe₂Ge₂-type structure, whereas the square lattice is
almost parallel to the a and b axes in BaPt₂Sb₂. To the best of our
knowledge, the proposed structure is a completely different one.

Table 2 lists interatomic distances. The intralayer interatomic distance
has two values of 2.681(3) and 2.734(3) A, which are both similar to the
interlayer interatomic distance of 2.708(7) A. This indicates that the
crystal structure is three dimensional. The $T_{\rm{C}}$ for iron-based
superconductors has often been discussed in terms of two structural
parameters, the Pn-Fe-Pn angle in FePn₄ tetrahedra, and the Pn elevation
above the Fe square lattice, where Pn represents pnictogen [38, 39, 40].
The Sb-Pt-Sb angles in the PtSb₄ tetrahedra and the Pt-Sb-Pt angles in
the SbPt₄ tetrahedra are far from the ideal regular tetrahedron angle of
109.5^(∘) that is thought to be favorable for a high $T_{\rm{C}}$ in the
iron pnictides. The Sb elevation above the distorted Pt square lattice
is similar to the Pn elevation for iron pnictides with a high
$T_{\rm{C}}$.

The crystal structure of SrPt₂Sb₂ was reported to be different from the
CaBe₂Ge₂-type [32], but has not been determined yet. This structure
proposed in this paper may help to clarify the crystal structure of
SrPt₂Sb₂.

  Interatomic distances                                                 
  --------------------------------- ----------------------------------- ----------------
  Intralayer                                                            
  Pt₂Sb₂ layer                      2.681(3) Å × 2                      2.734(3) Å × 2
                                    Sb height from the Pt square        1.263(3) Å
                                    lattice                             
  Sb₂Pt₂ layer                      2.687(2) Å × 2                      2.702(2) Å × 2
                                    Pt height from the Sb square        1.266(2) Å
                                    lattice                             
  Interlayer                        2.708(7) Å                          
  Bond angles                                                           
  PbSb₄ tetrahedron                                                     
  Sb-Pt-Sb angle                                                        
  Diagonal ($\alpha_{\rm{bond}}$)   122.92(15)^(∘)× 2                   
  Adjacent ($\beta_{\rm{bond}}$)    91.58(16)^(∘), 102.78(12)^(∘)× 2,   
                                    113.50(19)^(∘)                      
  SbPt₄ tetrahedron                                                     
  Pt-Sb-Pt angle                                                        
  Diagonal ($\alpha_{\rm{bond}}$)   123.95(12)^(∘)× 2                   
  Adjacent ($\beta_{\rm{bond}}$)    102.47(12)^(∘), 103.10(9)^(∘)× 2,   
                                    102.34(12)^(∘)                      

Table 2: Interatomic distances and bond angles. The values in
parentheses represent the standard deviation.

Figure 2: (Color online) (a) Crystal structure of BaPt₂Sb₂, (b) PtSb₄
and SbPt₄ tetrahedra that form the Pt₂Sb₂ and Sb₂Pt₂ layers. (c) view
along the [001] direction, (d) view along the [010] direction, (e)
deformed Pt square lattice of BaPt₂Sb₂ along the [001] direction, and
(f) Pt square lattice of CaBe₂Ge₂-type BaPt₂Sb₂ along the [001]
direction. Red broken lines show Pt lattice. Blue solid lines show unit
cell. Large purple spheres, small white spheres, and small orange
spheres represent Ba, Pt, and Sb atoms, respectively.

### Electrical resistivity, ac magnetic susceptibility, specific heat,
and magnetic phase diagram

Based on the results of electrical resistivity, ac magnetic
susceptibility, and specific-heat measurements, it was found that
BaPt₂Sb₂ undergoes a superconducting transition.

Figure 3(a) shows the electrical resistivity ρ as a function of
temperature, where the inset is an expanded view at low temperatures. It
can be seen that ρ decreases with decreasing temperature, undergoes an
abrupt drop at 1.85 K, and becomes negligibly small at 1.82 K, which
suggests that BaPt₂Sb₂ undergoes a normal-to-superconducting transition.
The residual resistivity ratio ρ (300 K) / ρ (2 K) is 4.04. Figure 3(b)
shows ρ measured at constant temperatures as a function of the magnetic
field strength. Under an applied magnetic field, the sample underwent a
superconducting-to-normal transition. The symbols H_(C2)ρ^(, 0n),
H_(C2)ρ^(, mid), and H_(C2)ρ^(, comp) represent the magnetic field
strength at which ρ starts to increase from zero, that where ρ is half
the normal resistivity value, and that where an extrapolation of the ρ-T
curve at the transition reaches the normal resistivity value,
respectively. The critical field increases with decreasing temperature,
as will be discussed in more detail later.

Figure 4 shows the real and imaginary parts of the ac magnetic
susceptibility χ^(′) and χ^(′′), respectively, measured at constant
temperatures below 1.44 K as a function of magnetic field amplitude μ₀H.
The inset is an expanded view of χ^(′) measured at 0.03 K. The χ^(′)
curves reflect a diamagnetic signal at low μ₀H, and this disappears at
the point μ₀H_(C2)χ^(′). The χ^(′′) curves exhibit a peak at a magnetic
field amplitude almost corresponding to the inflection point in the
χ^(′) curves. The shoulder observed at low μ₀H in the χ^(′′) curves is
due to a background signal associated with the apparatus. This behavior
of χ^(′) and χ^(′′) suggests that BaPt₂Sb₂ becomes superconducting in
this temperature range [41], and that the abrupt decrease in ρ at 1.85 K
corresponds to a superconducting transition. The magnitude of the
diamagnetic signal for BaPt₂Sb₂ was investigated by comparing it with
that for a Pb sample with the same shape and size. At 1.6 K, the two
signals had almost the same magnitude, and since Pb is a perfect
diamagnetic at this temperature, the superconducting volume fraction in
BaPt₂Sb₂ was almost 100

Figure 5(a) shows the specific heat divided by the temperature C/T as a
function of T², measured for different magnetic field strengths. At 0 T,
an anomaly appears around 1.7 K, and this shifts to lower temperature
and becomes smaller with increasing magnetic field, until it finally
disappears at 0.2 T. This large specific-heat anomaly and the large
diamagnetic signal in χ^(′) indicate that the observed superconductivity
is bulk superconductivity. These results reveal that BaPt₂Sb₂ is a
superconducting material with a T_(C) of 1.8 K.

The electronic specific-heat coefficient γ_(a), and the coefficients β
and δ were determined to be 8.6 (2) mJ/mol K², 2.32 (6) mJ/mol K⁴, and
0.111 (5) mJ/mol K⁶, respectively, by fitting the equation
C/T = γ_(a) + βT² + δT⁴ to the data obtained at 0.2 T. The Debye
temperature θ_(D) was calculated to be 146(4) K from the value of β. In
order to confirm the validity of the fit, the difference in the entropy
S between the normal and superconducting states S_(es) − S_(en) was
calculated

Figure 4: (Color online) Real and imaginary parts of ac magnetic
susceptibility χ^(′) and χ^(′′), respectively, measured at constant
temperatures below 1.44 K as a function of magnetic field amplitude μ₀H.
The inset shows an expanded view of χ^(′) measured at 0.03 K.
H_(C2)χ^(′) indicates the magnetic field amplitude where the diamagnetic
signal disappears.

Figure 3: (Color online) (a) Electrical resistivity as a function of
temperature, (b) electrical resistivity at fixed temperatures as a
function of magnetic field strength. The inset in Fig. 3(a) is an
expanded view of the resistivity at low temperatures ranging from 1.8 to
2.1 K. The symbols H_(C2)ρ^(, on), H_(C2)ρ^(, mid), and H_(C2)ρ^(, comp)
represent the magnetic field strength at which ρ starts to increase from
zero, that at which ρ is half the normal resistivity value, and that at
which an extrapolation of the ρ-T curve during the transition reaches
the normal resistivity value, respectively.

by integrating (C_(es) − γ_(n))/T between 0 and 2 K, where C_(es) is the
electronic specific heat for the superconducting state. C_(es) is
obtained by subtracting the phonon specific heat C_(ph) = βT³ + δT⁵ from
C (0 T) and extrapolating C_(es) (0 T) to 0 K. The entropy difference
goes to zero when the temperature reaches 1.8 K, as shown in the inset,
which confirms the thermodynamic consistency of the fit.

In Fig. 5(b), the difference in C/T between 0 and 0.2 T,
[C(0T) − C(0.2T)]/T, is shown as a function of the temperature. The
dashed line represents an entropy-conserving construction. The
transition to the superconducting state with the entropy-conserving
construction gives ΔC(T_(C))/T_(C) = 11.8(2) mJ/mol K² and T_(C) = 1.66
K. The ratio of the specific-heat jump at T_(C) to γ_(n),
ΔC(T_(C))/γ_(n)T_(C), is calculated to be 1.37, which is almost the same
as that predicted by BCS theory (1.43) [42].

The anomaly in the C/T − T curve has a shoulder at 1.76 K. A detailed
investigation of the shoulder region is currently underway. However, it
is possibly the result of multigap superconductivity or spatial
inhomogeneity in the chemical composition of the samples.

Figure 6(a) is a magnetic field-temperature phase diagram deduced from
the measurements of electrical resistivity, ac magnetic susceptibility,
and specific heat. The empty triangles, circles, and rhombus represent
T_(C)^(-con), T_(C)^(-mid), and T_(C)^(-con)app shown in Fig. 3(b). The
solid squares represent H_(C)^(-mid), as shown in the inset of Fig. 4.
The solid triangles represent the superconducting critical temperature
T_(C)^(SH) determined from the specific-heat data using the
entropy-conserving construction.

Figure 6(b) shows the reduced magnetic field h^(*) as a function of the
reduced temperature t^(*), where h^(*) = H/(−dH/dT)T_(C) and
t^(*) = T/T_(C). The dashed-dotted dotted lines show h^(*) calculated
using the pair-breaking model proposed by Werthamer, Helfand, and
Hohenber (WHH), in the clean and dirty limits [43, 44, 45],
respectively. The h^(*) − t^(*) curve obtained from the resistivity data
agrees with those obtained from the ac magnetic susceptibility and
specific-heat data. The t^(*) dependence of h^(*) deviates from the
calculated curve. The value of H_(C)⁻² (0) was therefore determined to
be 0.27 T from μ₀H_(C)^(-2-con). This value is approximately one-tenth
of the Pauli limiting field μ₀H_(p) (3.31 T), defined as

Figure 5: (Color online) (a) Specific heat divided by temperature C/T,
measured at various magnetic field strengths as a function of squared
temperature T², and (b) specific-heat difference between 0 and 0.2 T
divided by temperature [C(0T) − C(0.2T)]/T as a function of temperature.
The inset in Fig. 5(a) shows the difference in entropy S between the
normal and superconducting states S_(es) − S_(m) as a function of
temperature.

Figure 6: (Color online) (a) Magnetic field-temperature phase diagram
deduced from measurements of electrical resistivity, ac magnetic
susceptibility, and specific heat. The empty triangles, circles, and
rhombus indicate T_(C)^(-con), T_(C)^(-2-mid), and T_(C)^(-2-con)app,
shown in Fig. 3(b). The solid squares and triangles represent H_(C)
determined from γ^(′), and T_(C) determined from the specific-heat data,
respectively. (b) Reduced magnetic field h^(*) as a function of reduced
temperature t^(*), where h^(*) = H/(−dH/dT)T_(C) and t^(*) = T/T_(C).
The dashed-dotted and dotted lines show h^(*) calculated using a
pair-breaking model in the clean and dirty limits, respectively.

$H_{\rm p}=18.4T_{\rm C}$ (kOe) [46, 47], which indicates the absence of
Pauli limiting in BaPt₂Sb₂. The Ginzburg-Landau (GL) coherent length ξ
(0) was determined to be 35 nm using the formula
$H_{\rm C2}(0)=\Phi_{0}/2\pi\xi(0)^{2}$, where Φ₀ is the flux quantum
[42].

As described above, the t^(*) dependence of h^(*) deviates from the
calculated curve based on the pair-breaking model proposed by WHH,
assuming that the superconductor has a single superconducting gap. A
similar deviation has been observed for iron pnictides such as
LaFeAsO_(1 − x)F_(x)[48], Co-doped SrFe₂As₂[49], and Co-doped
BaFe₂As₂[50], and was interpreted within the framework of a two-gap
model. A theory for two-gap superconductors indicated that the
$T-H_{\rm C2}$ (T) curve can differ from that predicted by single-gap
theory, and that $H_{\rm C2}$ (0) can considerably exceed the value
determined based on the one-gap model in the dirty limit,
$0.7T_{\rm C}d\,H_{\rm C2}/dT_{\rm C}$[51]. In the case of MgB₂, two
superconducting gaps are formed as a result of a 2D cylindrical FS and a
3D tubular-network FS [31, 32]. BaPt₂Sb₂ has four FS sheets with
different dimensionality and carrier type. Two are 2D electronlike FSs
and two are 3D holelike FSs, as later calculations will show. Therefore,
these FSs are expected to form multiple superconducting gaps in
BaPt₂Sb₂, as in the case of MgB₂. Therefore, the observed deviation in
the t^(*) − h^(*) curve might be due to such multigap superconductivity.
Further study using single-crystalline samples is necessary in order to
confirm whether the presence of multiple gaps plays an important role in
the superconductivity of BaPt₂Sb₂.

### Electronic structure

Figures 7 and 8 illustrate the band structure and the total and partial
density of states (DOS) for BaPt₂Sb₂. The bands in the energy range from
−0.2 to 0.0 Ry mainly consists of Sb s-states. The bands in the energy
range from 0.1 to 0.7 Ry mainly consist of Sb p and Pt d states. Above
0.7 Ry, the bands originate from the Ba d and Pt d states. Since the
bands associated with Pt and Sb are broad, the correlation is deduced to
be weak in BaPt₂Sb₂. Four bands cross the Fermi level $E_{\rm F}$, as
can be seen clearly on the Γ-Y line. $N(E_{\rm F})$ is 29.8
states/Ry/chemical formula unit, or 2.58 states/eV/chemical formula
unit. Figure 8(b) shows an expanded view of the partial DOS near
$E_{\rm F}$. $N(E_{\rm F})$ mainly consists of Sb p and Pt d states, and
the contribution from the Pt d states is larger, particularly for Pt1
atoms (Pt atoms at 4g site in Table 1). The contributions of the Pt2 d,
Sb2 p, and Sb1 p states are approximately one half, one third, and one
fifth of that of the Pt1 d states, respectively. It is worth noting that
the Pt1 atoms are in PtSb₄ tetrahedra in the Pt₂Sb₂ layers. These
results suggest that carrier conduction mainly occurs in these layers.

The four bands that cross $E_{\rm F}$ on the Γ-Y line from the Γ to Y
points are the 37th, 38th, 39th, and 40th bands from the bottom,
respectively, which results in four FS sheets, as illustrated in Fig. 9.
The sheets formed by the 37th and 38th bands are holelike, whereas the
other two are electronlike. The 37th and 38th bands form 3D FSs around
the Γ point. The 39th and 40th bands form 2D FSs with a cylindrical
shape along the k_(x) direction at the corners near the M point.

The shape of the FSs in BaPt₂Sb₂ is similar to that observed in
BaPd₂Sb₂[29] and SrPt₂As₂[22] in that there are two 3D FSs and two 2D
FSs. However, the carrier types are different. SrPt₂As₂ has one holelike
FS and three electronlike FSs, whereas BaPt₂Sb₂ has two holelike FSs and
two electronlike FSs, as in the case of BaPd₂Sb₂.

The anisotropic shape of the FSs is expected to be reflected in
anisotropic transport properties. To investigate this, the Fermi
velocity components $v_{\rm F}$${}^{\rm x}$ and $v_{\rm F}$${}^{\rm z}$
were calculated

Figure 8: (Color online) (a) Total and partial density of states (DOS)
for BaPt₂Sb₂. (b) Expanded view of partial DOS for BaPt₂Sb₂ near the
Fermi level $E_{\rm F}$.

Figure 7: Band structure of BaPt₂Sb₂.

assuming the angle $\beta_{\rm ac}$ in the unit cell to be 90^(∘)
because the first two digits in the Fermi velocities are the same for
crystal structures with $\beta_{\rm ac}$ values of 90^(∘) and
91.227^(∘). Table 3 lists the average values of $v_{\rm F}$^(x) and
$v_{\rm F}$^(z), and the ratio $v_{\rm F}$^(x)/$v_{\rm F}$^(z) for
BaPt₂Sb₂ together with the two polymorphs BaPd₂Sb₂ and SrPt₂As₂. The
$v_{\rm F}$^(z)/$v_{\rm F}$^(z) values are clearly greater than unity
for BaPt₂Sb₂ and the CaBe₂Ge₂-type materials, which suggests that these
materials have anisotropic transport properties. On the other hand,
those for the ThCr₂Si₂-type materials are close to unity, suggesting
isotropic transport properties. Thus, the existence of 2D FSs in
BaPt₂Sb₂ and the CaBe₂Ge₂-type materials is reflected in anisotropic
transport properties.

Table 4 lists $T_{\rm C}$, $\gamma_{\rm a}$, $\theta_{\rm D}$,
$N(E_{\rm F})$, and the electron-phonon coupling constant λ for
BaPt₂Sb₂, SrPt₂Sb₂[32], LaPd₂Sb₂[52], and SrPt₂As₂[20, 22]. LaPd₂Sb₂ is
a recently reported superconducting material ($T_{\rm C}$ = 1.4 K) with
the CaBe₂Ge₂-type structure. $\gamma_{\rm a}$${}^{\rm ext}$ is
$\gamma_{\rm a}$ obtained from specific-heat measurements and
$\gamma_{\rm a}$${}^{\rm calc}$ is $\gamma_{\rm a}$ calculated using the
equation $\gamma_{\rm a}$${}^{\rm calc}$ = (π²/3)N(E_(F))k_(B)².λ was
estimated to be 0.67 for BaPt₂Sb₂ using the relation
$\gamma_{\rm a}$${}^{\rm expt}$ = (1 + λ)${}_{\rm f}$${}^{\rm calc}$.
BaPt₂Sb₂ is a superconducting material with moderate coupling. The value
of $\gamma_{\rm a}$${}^{\rm expt}$ for BaPt₂Sb₂ is comparable to those
for SrPt₂Sb₂ and SrPt₂Sb₂, and is slightly larger than that for
LaPd₂Sb₂. $\theta_{\rm D}$ for BaPt₂Sb₂ is the smallest among the four
compounds. The value of λ is comparable to that for SrPt₂As₂.

## IV Conclusion

This study clearly demonstrated that the 122-type antimonide, BaPt₂Sb₂,
which is structurally related to the iron-based superconductors, shows
superconductivity with a $T_{\rm C}$ of 1.8 K. BaPt₂Sb₂ crystallizes in
a new monoclinic variant of the CaBe₂Ge₂-type structure. Calculations
showed that it has two 3D FSs and two 2D FSs, which results in
anisotropic transport properties. The d states of Pt atoms in PbSb₄
tetrahedra in the Pt₂Sb₂ layers make the main contribution to
$N(E_{\rm F})$. A comparison between experimental and calculation
results indicated that BaPt₂Sb₂ is a superconducting material with
moderate coupling.

This study also demonstrated that unknown variants of the CaBe₂Ge₂-type
structure may exist in 122-type pnictides. It is therefore worthwhile to
search for superconducting 122 antimonides with a CaBe₂Ge₂-type
structure or variant since this can lead to the discovery of new
superconducting materials. Since the calculated electronic structure for
CaBe₂Ge₂-type iron-free pnictides indicates that they have
characteristics intermediate between those for ThCr₂Si₂-type iron and
iron-free pnictides, this will also aid in forming a systematic
understanding of superconductivity in 122 pnictides.

l c c c c c c & $T_{\rm C}$ (K) & $\gamma_{\rm a}$${}^{\rm expt}$
(mJ/mol K²) & $\theta_{\rm D}$ (K) & $N(E_{\rm F})$ (states/eV cell) &
$\gamma_{\rm a}$${}^{\rm calc}$ (mJ/mol K²) & λ
BaPt₂Sb₂ & 1.82 & 8.6(2) & 146(4) & 2.19 & 5.16 & 0.67
SrPt₂Sb₂ & 2.1${}^{\rm a}$ & 9.2(1)${}^{\rm a}$ & 183${}^{\rm a}$ & & &
& –
LaPd₂Sb₂ & 1.4${}^{\rm b}$ & 6.89${}^{\rm a}$ & 210${}^{\rm b}$ & & & &
–
SrPt₂As₂ & 5.2${}^{\rm c}$ & 9.72${}^{\rm c}$ & 211${}^{\rm c}$ &
2.55${}^{\rm d}$ & 6.01${}^{\rm d}$ & 0.62${}^{\rm d}$

Table 4: Superconducting critical temperature $T_{\rm C}$, electronic
heat capacity coefficient $\gamma_{\rm a}$, Debye temperature
$\theta_{\rm D}$, calculated density of states at the Fermi level
$N(E_{\rm F})$, and electron-phonon coupling constant λ for BaPt₂Sb₂,
SrPt₂Sb₂[32], LaPd₂Sb₂[52], and SrPt₂As₂[20, 22].
$\gamma_{\rm a}$${}^{\rm expt}$ is $\gamma_{\rm a}$ obtained from
specific-heat measurements, and $\gamma_{\rm a}$${}^{\rm calc}$ is
$\gamma_{\rm a}$ estimated by calculations. The values in parentheses
represent the standard deviation.

Figure 9: Fermi surfaces (FSs) for BaPt₂Sb₂, formed by the (a) 37th, (b)
38th, (c) 39th, and (d) 40th bands. The FSs for the 37th and 38th bands
are holelike, and FSs for the 39th and 40th bands are electronlike.

## Acknowledgments

The authors thank M. Nishio of National Institute for Materials Science
(NIMS) for EPMA, M. Takagi of NIMS for experimental support, Y. Yamada,
F. Ishikawa, and N. Eguchi of Niigata University for their support at
the first stage of the synthesis. This work was supported in part by the
Japan Society for the Promotion of Science through its "Funding Program
for World-Leading Innovative R&D on Science and Technology (FIRST
Program)."

## References

* [1] Y. Kamihara, T. Watanabe, M. Hirano, and H. Hosono, J. Am. Chem.
Soc. **130**, 3296 (2008). * [2] N.-L. Wang, H. Hosono, and P. Dai,
_Iron-Based Superconductors_ (Pan Stanford Publishing, Singapore,
2013). * [3] Y. Izyumov and E. Kurmaev, _High-Tc Superconductors Based
on FeAs Compounds_ (Springer, Heidelberg, 2010). * [4] H. Hosono, J.
Phys. Soc. Jpn. **77**, 1 (2008). * [5] D. C. Johnston, Adv. Phys.
**59**, 803 (2010). * [6] J. Paglione and R. L. Greene, Nat. Phys.
**6**, 645 (2010). * [7] P. J. Hirschfeld, M. M. Korshunov, and I. I.
Mazin, Rep. Prog. Phys. **74**, 124508 (2011). * [8] G. R. Stewart, Rev.
Mod. Phys. **83**, 1589 (2011). * [9] K. Ishida, Y. Nakai, and H.
Hosono, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **78**, 062001 (2009). * [10] M. Rotter, M.
Tegel, and D. Johrendt, Phys. Rev. Lett. **101**, 107006 (2008). * [11]
K. Kudo, K. Iba, M. Takasuga, Y. Kitahama, J. Matsumura, M. Danura, Y.
Nogami, and M. Nohara, Sci. Rep. **3**, 1478 (2013). * [12] F. Ronning,
E. D. Bauer, T. Park, S. H. Baek, H. Sakai, and J. D. Thompson, Phys.
Rev. B **79**, 134507 (2009). * [13] T. Mine, H. Yanagi, T. Kamiya, Y.
Kamihara, M. Hirano, and H. Hosono, Solid State Commun. **147**, 111
(2008). * [14] D. Hirai, T. Takayama, R. Higashinaka, H. Aruga-Katori,
and H. Takagi, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **78**, 023706 (2009). * [15] W.
Jeitschko, R. Glaum, and L. Boonk, J. Solid State Chem. **69**, 93
(1987). * [16] J.-T. Han, J.-S. Zhou, J.-G. Cheng, and J. B. Goodenough,
J. Am. Chem. Soc. **132**, 908 (2010). * [17] E. D. Bauer, F. Ronning,
B. L. Scott, and J. D. Thompson, Phys. Rev. B **78**, 172504 (2008). *
[18] D. Hirai, T. Takayama, D. Hashizume, R. Higashinaka, A. Yamamoto,
A. K. Hiroko, and H. Takagi, Physica C (Amsterdam) **470**, S296
(2010). * [19] F. Ronning, N. Kurita, E. D. Bauer, B. L. Scott, T. Park,
T. Klimczuk, R. Movshovich, and J. D. Thompson, J. Phys.: Condens.
Matter **20**, 342203 (2008). * [20] K. Kudo, Y. Nishikubo, and M.
Nohara, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **79**, 123710 (2010). * [21] A. Imre, A.
Hellmann, G. Wenski, J. Grap, D. Johrendt, and A. Mewis, Z. Anorg. Allg.
Chem. **633**, 2037 (2007). * [22] I. R. Shein and A. L. Ivanovskii,
Phys. Rev. B **83**, 104501 (2011). * [23] D. J. Singh, Phys. Rev. B
**78**, 094511 (2008). * [24] C. Liu, G. D. Samolyuk, Y. Lee, N. Ni, T.
Kondo, A. F. Santander-Syro, S. L. Bud’ko, J. L. McChesney, E.
Rotenberg, T. Valla, A. V. Fedorov, P. C. Canfield, B. N. Harmon, and A.
Kaminski, Phys. Rev. Lett. **101**, 177005 (2008). * [25] A. Subedi and
D. J. Singh, Phys. Rev. B **78**, 132511 (2008). * [26] I. R. Shein and
A. L. Ivanovskii, Phys. Rev. B **79**, 054510 (2009). * [27] I. R. Shein
and A. L. Ivanovskii, Solid State Commun. **149**, 1860 (2009). * [28]
I. R. Shein and A. L. Ivanovskii, Physica B (Amsterdam) **405**, 3213
(2010). * [29] I. Hase and T. Yanagisawa, Physica C (Amsterdam) **494**,
27 (2013). * [30] H. J. Choi, D. Roundy, H. Sun, M. L. Cohen, and S. G.
Louie, Nature (London) **418**, 758 (2002). * [31] A. Y. Liu, I. I.
Mazin, and J. Kortus, Phys. Rev. Lett. **87**, 087005 (2001). * [32] M.
Imai, S. Emura, M. Nishio, Y. Matsushita, S. Ibuka, N. Eguchi, F.
Ishikawa, Y. Yamada, T. Muranaka and J. Akimitsu, Supercond. Sci.
Technol. **26**, 075001 (2013). * [33] R. A. Young, _The Rietveld
Method_ (Oxford University Press, Oxford, 1993). * [34] J.
Rodriguez-cavrajal, Physica B (Amsterdam) **192**, 55 (1993). * [35] A.
Yanase, _Fortran Program For Space Group (TSPACE)_ (Shokabo, Tokyo,
1995). * [36] D. D. Koelling and B. N. Harmon, J. Phys. C: Solid State
Phys. **10**, 3107 (1977). * [37] G. Venturini, B. Malaman, and B.
Roques, J. Less-Common Met. **146**, 271 (1989). * [38] C. H. Lee, A.
Iyo, H. Eisaki, H. Kito, M. T. Fernandez-Diaz, T. Ito, K. Kihou, H.
Matsubata, M. Braden, and K. Yamada, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **77**, 083704
(2008). * [39] D. Johrendt, H. Hosono, R. D. Hoffmann, and R. Pottgen,
Z. Kristallogr. **226**, 435 (2011). * [40] K. Kuroki, H. Usui, S.
Onari, R. Arita, and H. Aoki, Phys. Rev. B **79**, 224511 (2009). * [41]
A. F. Khoder, Phys. Lett. A **94**, 378 (1983). * [42] M. Tinkham,
_Introduction to Superconductivity_, 2nd ed. (McGraw-Hill, New York,
1996). * [43] E. Helfand and N. R. Werthamer, Phys. Rev. Lett. **13**,
686 (1964). * [44] E. Helfand and N. R. Werthamer, Phys. Rev. **147**,
288 (1966). * [45] N. Werthame, E. Helfand, and P. Hohenber, Phys. Rev.
**147**, 295 (1966). * [46] B. S. Chandrasekhar, Appl. Phys. Lett.
**1**, 7 (1962). * [47] A. M. Clogston, Phys. Rev. Lett. **9**, 266
(1962). * [48] F. Hunte, J. Jaroszynski, A. Gurevich, D. C.
Larbalestier, R. Jin, A. S. Sefat, M. A. McGuire, B. C. Sales, D. K.
Christen, and D. Mandrus, Nature (London) **453**, 903 (2008). * [49] S.
A. Baily, Y. Kohama, H. Hiramatsu, B. Maiorov, F. F. Balakirev, M.
Hirano, and H. Hosono, Phys. Rev. Lett. **102**, 117004 (2009). * [50]
M. Kano, Y. Kohama, D. Graf, F. Balakirev, A. S. Sefat, M. A. McGuire,
B. C. Sales, D. Mandrus, and S. W. Tozer, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **78**,
084719 (2009). * [51] A. Gurevich, Phys. Rev. B **67**, 184515 (2003). *
[52] S. Ganesapotti, T. Yajima, T. Toloyama, Z. Li, K. Nakano, Y.
Nozaki, C. Tassel, Y. Kobayashi, and H. Kageyama, J. Alloys Compd.
**583**, 151 (2014).
