Nonequilibrium microwave emission due to tunnel injection of
quasiparticles into a high-T_(c) Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O_(y) superconductor

I. Iguchi

K. Lee

klee@phys.u-tokyo.ac.jp Department of Applied Physics and CREST, Tokyo
Institute of Technology, 2-12-1 Oh-okayama, Meguro-ku, Tokyo 152-8551,
Japan

T. Ishibashi and K. Sato

Faculty of Technology, Tokyo Institute of Agriculture and Technology,
2-24-16 Nakacho, Koganei, Tokyo 184-8588, Japan

22 March 1999; revised manuscript received 10 September 1999

###### Abstract

Nonequilibrium microwave emission due to tunnel injection of
quasiparticles into a high-T_(c) Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O_(y) (Bi2212)
superconducting thin film using an AuI/IBi2212 tunnel junction is
reported. The microwaves were detected by a superheterodyne-mixer
technique at a receiver frequency of 47 GHz. With increasing the
injection current, the emitted microwave intensity increased almost
linearly at relatively low temperatures, in qualitative agreement with
the case of YBa₂Cu₂O_(7 − y) films. Above 35 K, however, the intensity
vs injection current curves exhibited nonlinear behavior. The results
were consistently interpreted by the Josephson plasma excitation model
due to quasiparticle injection recently proposed by Shafranjuk and
Tachiki.

pacs: 05.40.+a, 05.40.+b, 05.40.+e, 05.40.+e, 05.40.+e, 05.40.+e

## I Introduction

Microwave emission from a superconductor has been one of the most
attractive subjects due to the basic understanding of physics involved
and the application to possible optoelectronic devices. Several
measurements have been reported for the generation of microwaves using
both low-T_(c) and high-T_(c) superconductors. In the steady state of a
superconductor, a few methods for the generation of electromagnetic
waves from the microwave to millimeter range using dc-biased Josephson
junctions are known. The most famous one is the self-radiation method
induced by Josephson ac currents.[1] For high-T_(c) YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − y)
(YBCO), Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O_(y) (Bi2212), and Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₃O_(y) (Bi2223)
superconductors, Josephson self-radiation of the order of picowatts has
been detected by a superheterodyne-mixer technique by several groups.[2,
3, 4, 5, 6, 7] Another method reported is to generate electromagnetic
waves by the flux-flow effect.[8] The flux-flow phenomenon enables the
generation of microwaves of several hundred GHz by moving magnetic
fluxes in a long Josephson junction in a magnetic field. These two
methods provide narrow-band oscillators. On the other hand, with the
application of a strong magnetic field parallel to the CuO₂ plane of
Bi2212 single-crystal, broadband microwave emission has also been
reported.[9] Moreover, the use of a femtosecond laser pulse to excite a
superconducting film led to the emission of electromagnetic waves up to
the THz region.[10, 11]

Quite recently, an emission of microwaves from dc-biased high-T_(c)
YBCO/I/Au tunnel junctions due to quasiparticle injection into the
c-axis direction has been reported.[12, 13, 14] The phenomenon was
observable without applying any magnetic field. Quasiparticle injection
phenomena have been intensively studied using high-T_(c) superconducting
tunnel junctions for the past several years.[15, 16, 17, 18] The
microwave emission appeared in the broadband spectrum, differently from
the narrow-band one usually observed for Josephson junctions. To observe
nonequilibrium emission, it is essential to establish a strongly
perturbed nonequilibrium state by quasiparticle injection. When a large
number of quasiparticles are injected into a high-T_(c) superconducting
film through a tunnel barrier, the film is driven to the nonequilibrium
state far from the thermal equilibrium. In the nonequilibrium state, the
excited quasiparticles decay toward the gap edge and recombine to form
Cooper pairs by emitting some excitations such as phonons or plasmons.

Broadband microwave emission has been observable at least in the
microwave detection range of 1.7-47 GHz in our measurements. It has been
shown that the nonequilibrium emission differs from the conventional
Josephson self-radiation in many ways. One possibility is the Josephson
plasma emission due to quasiparticle injection.[19] The Josephson plasma
frequency for high-T_(c) materials lies well below the gap frequency,
and the plasma wave transmits without appreciable Landau damping.[20]
The detection of microwave emission, however, has been demonstrated only
for 1:2:3 oxide compounds such as YBCO (Refs. [12] and [13]) and
ErBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − y) (EBCO).[14] It is very important to determine whether
or not the observed phenomenon is characteristic of high-T_(c) cuprate
superconductors and to investigate the relationship between the
Josephson plasma phenomenon and high-T_(c) material properties, since
Josephson plasma frequency strongly depends on the material properties.

In this paper, we present our measurements on novel microwave emission
from a quasiparticle-injected Bi2212 film. The microwave emission was
observable when a tunnel current was supplied to a Bi2212/I/Au junction.
The detected microwave intensity at 4.2 K increased almost linearly with
increasing the injection current, quite similarly to that observed for
the YBCO and EBCO cases.[12, 13, 14] At higher temperatures above 35 K,
however, the detected characteristics deviated greatly from those of the
YBCO and EBCO cases. The observed phenomena may be interpreted by the
Josephson plasma excitation model by quasiparticle injection.[19]

## II Experimental details

Bi2212 films were grown onto MgO(100) substrates by the
molecular-beam-epitaxy (MBE) technique.[21] Four differ ent elements
(Bi, Sr, Ca, and Cu) were evaporated from four K cells by introducing an
ozone-gas jet of 10

The measurements on the injection characteristics were performed by
feeding the injection current through two tunnel barriers, as shown in
Fig. 1, and measuring the change in the critical current of the Bi2212
film. The four-terminal method was employed in this measurement. The
measurements of microwave detection were performed by a nonresonant
superheterodyne-mixer technique with a receiver frequency of 47 GHz
(bandwidth: B = 2 GHz).7 The generated microwave emission signal was
guided to a tapered waveguide at the low-temperature section. The
incident signal after passing through a modulator and an attenuator was
mixed with a Schottky local oscillator signal, and then the intermediate
frequency (IF) signal was amplified and put into an integrator to
produce the dc-output signal. The integration time was 1 s. Hence the
observed signal corresponds to the integrated power spectrum. The
detection sensitivity was 10-16 W. To isolate the local oscillator power
from the junction, two isolators were used between the sample and the
mixer block, providing isolation of more than 60 dB at central
frequency, which prevented the local oscillator signal from transmitting
to the sample side. The observed magnitude of signal ranged from the
subpicowatt to picowatt region.

Figure 2 shows an example of detected Josephson self-radiation signal
from a dc-biased YBCO Josephson bicrystal junction using our detection
system with the receiver frequency 47 GHz. A sharp peak was found at the
current value corresponding to the voltage V satisfying the Josephson
voltage-frequency (f) relation hf = 2 eV. The detected power was about 1
pW. This result confirms the validity of our measurement system for
microwave detection. The measurements of microwave emission due to
tunnel injection of quasiparticles were done by feeding the injection
current through two tunnel junctions and detecting the microwave signal
at the specific receiver frequency.

## III Results and Discussion

Figure 3 shows the tunnel-conductance characteristics of a Bi2212/J/Au
thin-film injector junction at different temperatures. The presence of a
pronounced gap structure in the fabricated junction is evident, ensuring
that the current injection is held in the tunneling regime. The gap
structure exhibited the so-called "’gapless’ character, being consistent
with the d-wave nature of high-T_(c) superconductors. It varied as the
bath temperature was raised and diminished near T_(c). The gap value at
low temperature was Δ ∼ 20 meV. Above T_(c), the nonlinear conductance
with some gaplike structure still existed, suggesting the possible
existence of a pseudogap state.

Figure 4 shows the observed injector characteristics of a Bi2212 film,
i.e., the film’s critical current (I_(c)) vs injection current
($I_{\rm inj}$) curve at 4.2 K. The critical current for the
noninjection case was I_(c) = 106 mA. With increasing the injection
current $I_{\rm inj}$, I_(c) was suppressed, but not as strongly. Note
that, because of the geometry given in Fig. 1, the injection
characteristics appeared quite symmetrically against the polarity of the
current axis (not shown here), in contrast to the case of the junctions
using crosstype geometry.15-17

The observed average current gain was 1.1, suggesting that the
quasiparticle injection into a high-T_(c) superconductor does not seem
to be as effective as that into low-T_(c) superconductors22,23 in
reducing the energy gap. The results are qualitatively similar to those
previously observed for YBCO/I/Au junctions17,18 and are considered to
be charac

Figure 2: Josephson self-radiation integrated power spectrum from a YBCO
bicrystal junction detected by a superheterodyne-mixer technique.

Figure 1: Sample geometry.

teristic of high-T_(c) cuprates. The value 1.1 is, however, reasonable
for our junction geometry in Fig. 1. Let us suppose that there is no
tunnel barrier between YBCO and Au (corresponding to current pair
breaking only). By assuming that w₁ and w₂ are the widths of an Au film
and one channel of a YBCO film in the center region, respectively, the
average current gain, as defined by $I_{c}/I_{\rm ic}$ where I_(c) is
the critical current of the film without injection and $I_{\rm ic}$ is
the critical injection current at which I_(c) becomes zero, is given by
2 w₂/w₁ for the geometry given in Fig. 1 since the film’s critical
current density J_(c) = I_(c)/2w₂d and
$J_{\rm ic}\!=\!I_{\rm ic}/w_{1}d$ should be equal. For w₁ = 100μm and
w₂ = 25μm, the current gain is 0.5. The value 1.1 is significantly
greater than this value. Moreover, in discussing the degree of
nonequilibrium effect, the current gain based on the current density
should be used. The current gain in this case is given by
$J_{c}/J_{\rm ic}\!=\!(I_{c}/I_{\rm ic})(w_{1}/2w_{2})$, yielding
$J_{c}/J_{\rm ic}\!=\!2.2$, reflecting the significant involvement of
the nonequilibrium effect. It is also pointed out that the data points
were greatly deviated from the simple heating curve in Fig. 4.

Next, we present the results on the detected microwaves. Figure 5 shows
the detected microwave power at a receiver frequency of 47 GHz emitted
from a Bi2212/I/Au tunnel injector junction as a function of injection
current at 4.2 K together with the I-V characteristics of a tunnel
junction. The detected microwave power increased almost linearly with
increasing the injection current at least up to 100 mA in a
qualitatively similar way to those observed in YBCO/I/Au junctions.[12,
13] Although the microwaves were detected at 47 GHz only, we consider
that the emitted spectrum will extend to a much higher frequency region,
as described by the Josephson plasma phenomenon discussed later. In
fact, a recent spectroscopic study using the YBCO junctions has
determined that the emitted spectra extend up to 10 THz (to be published
elsewhere).

Figure 6 shows the result for microwave detection when the current was
fed only through a superconducting Bi2212 film and not through the
tunnel barrier. No appreciable signal was observable in this
measurement, demonstrating that the detected signal was not due to
microwave emission from possible weak-coupling granular structures in a
film. The result is consistent with the high quality of a Bi2212 film
having the critical current density of 10⁶ A/cm² (4.2 K). Hence, the
detected microwave power is considered to arise solely from the
quasiparticle injection phenomenon.

Figure 7 shows the measurements of the detected microwave power as a
function of injection current at different temperatures. The microwave
emission disappeared above T_(c), assuring that the phenomenon is of
superconductive nature. The nearly linear dependence of the microwave
power on injection current at 4.2 K suggests that the microwave emission
is incoherent, since the detected power P_(d) was not

Figure 4: Critical current of a Bi2212 thin film as a function of
injection current at 4.2 K.

Figure 5: Detected microwave power at 47 GHz as a function of injection
current at 4.2 K, together with the current-voltage characteristic of an
injector junction.

Figure 3: Tunnel conductance characteristics of a Bi2212/I/Au junction
at different temperatures.

proportional to the injected power $P_{\rm inj}$. With increasing the
bath temperature, the linear current-dependent incoherent behavior
disappeared and the P_(d) vs $I_{\rm inj}$ curves changed to nonlinear
power-dependent behavior. This result differs from those previously
reported for the YBCO films,[12, 13] suggesting the additional
contribution in going from incoherent nature of emission to coherentlike
nature of emission. In fact, looking at the data at 15 K, we see some
transient region from current-dependent incoherent behavior to
power-dependent coherent behavior with increasing the injection current,
i.e., for $I_{\rm inj}$ less than 20 mA, the P_(d) vs $I_{\rm inj}$
curve exhibits linear behavior, whereas above 20 mA, it tends to become
nonlinear.

Figure 8 compares the results of the detected microwave intensity at
several injection currents as a function of temperature for Bi2212 and
YBCO films. The general features of these two data are qualitatively
different. For a YBCO film, the overall detected power decreases
monotonically as the bath temperature is raised while keeping the linear
relation between P_(d) and $I_{\rm inj}$ suggesting the decrease of the
plasmon emission probability at higher temperatures. At high
temperatures near T_(c), the injected nonequilibrium state becomes
closer to the simple heating state in which most of excitations are
emitted in terms of phonons. On the other hand, for a Bi2212 film, the
detected intensity takes a minimum value at about T/T_(c) = 0.5 (T = 35
K).

In the nonequilibrium state of a superconductor, the injected
high-energy quasiparticles decay toward the gap energy via
electron-phonon and electron-plasmon interactions. The quasiparticles
near the gap edge recombine to form Cooper pairs by emitting phonons or
plasmons. By considering nonequilibrium kinetics only, it is difficult
to interpret the qualitative difference between the observed phenomena
for YBCO and Bi2212 materials. Here, we interpret the observed results
in terms of Josephson plasma emission effect in a high-T_(c)d-wave
superconductor by quasiparticle injection as discussed by Shafranjuk and
Tachiki quite recently.[19] According to their model, when a large
number of quasiparticles are injected into a high-T_(c) superconductor
along the c axis using a superconductor/insulating-barrier/normal-metal
(S/I/N) tunnel junction, the Josephson plasma wave is excited by the
processes of recombination of quasiparticles and electron-plasma
scattering and the plasma wave polarized along the c axis is emitted.
The nonequilibrium effect appears as a change in the electronic
distribution function. The resultant nonequilibrium state depends on
various injection conditions such as the injection voltage, injection
current, and phonon escape time. It has been pointed out that the
plasma-emission spectral mode depends strongly on the injection rate and
injection voltage. For a relatively smaller

Figure 8: Detected microwave intensity as a function of temperature for
Bi2212 and YBCO films at several injection currents.

Figure 6: Detected microwave signal as a function of transport current
in a Bi2212 film only, together with its current-voltage characteristic.
Note that no signal was detected by feeding the current in a Bi2212 thin
film only, assuring that the signal obtained in Fig. 5 is not due to
granular structures in the film itself.

Figure 7: Detected microwave power at 47 GHz as a function of injection
current at different temperatures.

injection rate, the spectrum forms a peak around the plasma frequency.
For strong quasiparticle injection, the plasma mode is washed away by
nonresonant electron-plasmon and electron-phonon collisions.

Based on the Josephson plasma physics, we interpret the observed results
as follows. The Josephson plasma frequency ω_(p) largely differs in the
above two materials. For Bi2212, it is around 100 GHz, whereas it is
about 2 THz for YBCO.[24] The receiver frequency (47 GHz) is rather
close to the Josephson plasma frequency of Bi2212, but far from that of
YBCO. ω_(p) strongly depends on the temperature and decreases with
increasing temperature. When the quasiparticle injection is held, the
effective temperature of the system is raised, and ω_(p) decreases as
well. Hence, the decrease of ω_(p) is determined by the sum of two
effects, i.e., the rise of bath temperature and the increase of system
temperature due to quasiparticle injection. Theoretically, as calculated
by Shafranjuk and Tachiki,[19] the emitted spectrum due to quasiparticle
injection consists of a coherentlike peak around Josephson plasma
frequency ω_(p) with some width determined by the real part of the
c-axis ac conductivity and a broadband spectrum due to incoherent
plasmons arising from the electron-plasmon interaction. The decrease of
Josephson plasma frequency causes a spectral shift of this peak spectrum
toward lower frequency, hence raising the signal intensity at the
receiver frequency site. At high temperature and in the presence of
quasiparticle injection, ω_(p) is considerably reduced so that the
plasma peaking edge may meet with the detector window. For Bi2212, since
ω_(p) lies near the receiver frequency, this effect is large, and the
contribution of plasma peak behavior appears as the increase of the
detected power at higher temperatures (Fig. 8). On the other hand, ω_(p)
is much greater than the receiver frequency for YBCO; hence, such a
contribution is too small to be observed. The slight displacement of a
minimum point between the data for $I_{\rm inj}=$ 40 mA and
$I_{\rm inj}=$ 60 mA in the temperature axis in Fig. 8 reflects that the
spectrum displacement with increasing $I_{\rm inj}$ indeed happens.

## IV Concluding remarks

We have reported the microwave emission from a quasiparticle-injected
Bi2212 film using a Bi2212/I/Au tunnel junction. The microwave signal
was detected by a superheterodyne-mixer technique at a receiver
frequency of 47 GHz. With increasing the injection current, the
microwave power increased almost linearly against the injection current
at 4.2 K, consistently with those reported for YBCO films. At higher
temperatures above 35 K, however, a nonlinear increase of microwave
power against the injection current was observed. The results were
interpreted by the excitation of the Josephson plasma mode due to
quasiparticle injection into a Bi2212 film having a low plasma frequency
of approximately 100 GHz.

## References

* [1] B. D. Josephson, Adv. Phys. **14**, 419 (1965). * [2] W. Reuter,
M. Siegel, K. Herrmann, J. Schubert, W. Zander, and A. I. Braginski,
Appl. Phys. Lett. **62**, 2280 (1993). * [3] R. Kleiner and P. Muller,
Phys. Rev. B **49**, 1327 (1994). * [4] R. Kleiner, F. Steinmeyer, G.
Kunkel, and P. Muller, Phys. Rev. Lett. **68**, 2394 (1992). * [5] K.
Lee, I. Iguchi, T. Hikata, and K. Sato, Appl. Phys. Lett. **64**, 1729
(1994). * [6] K. Lee and I. Iguchi, Appl. Phys. Lett. **66**, 769
(1995). * [7] K. Lee and I. Iguchi, IEICE Trans. Electron. **E78-C**,
490 (1995). * [8] T. Nagatsuma, K. Enpuku, F. Irie, and K. Yoshida, J.
Appl. Phys. **54**, 3302 (1983); **56**, 3284 (1984). * [9] G.
Hechtfischer, R. Kleiner, A. V. Ustinov, and P. Muller, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**79**, 1365 (1997). * [10] M. Hangyo, S. Tomozawa, Y. Murakami, M.
Tonouchi, M. Tani, Z. Wang, K. Sakai, and S. Nakashima, Appl. Phys.
Lett. **69**, 1948 (1996). * [11] C. Jaekel, H. G. Roskos, and H. Kurz,
Phys. Rev. B **54**, R6889 (1996). * [12] I. Iguchi, K. Lee, H. Arie,
and E. Kume, in _Advances in Superconductivity X_, edited by K. Osamura
and I. Hirabayashi (Springer-Verlag, Tokyo, 1998), p. 1181. * [13] K.
Lee, I. Iguchi, H. Arie, and E. Kume, Jpn. J. Appl. Phys., Part 2
**37**, L278 (1998). * [14] K. Lee, H. Yamaguchi, W. Wang, E. Kume, and
I. Iguchi, Appl. Phys. Lett. **74**, 2375 (1999). * [15] I. Iguchi, K.
Nukui, and K. Lee, Phys. Rev. B **50**, 457 (1994). * [16] Yu. M.
Boguslavskij, K. Joosse, A. G. Sivakov, F. J. G. Roesthuis, G. J.
Gerritsma, and H. Rogalla, Physica C **220**, 195 (1994). * [17] Q. Wang
and I. Iguchi, Physica C **228**, 393 (1994). * [18] H. Arie, E. Kume,
and I. Iguchi, Phys. Rev. B **56**, 2387 (1997). * [19] S. Shafranjuk
and M. Tachiki, Phys. Rev. B **59**, 14 087 (1999). * [20] M. Tachiki,
T. Koyama, and S. Takahashi, Phys. Rev. B **50**, 7065 (1994). * [21] T.
Ishibashi, Y. Okada, and M. Kawabe, Jpn. J. Appl. Phys., Part 2 **33**,
L763 (1995). * [22] I. Iguchi, Phys. Rev. B **16**, 1954 (1977). * [23]
T. Wong, J. T. C. Yeh, and D. N. Langenberg, Phys. Rev. Lett. **37**,
150 (1976). * [24] H. Shibata and T. Yamada, Physica C **293**, 191
(1997).
