# Superconductivity in electron-doped layered TiNCl with variable
interlayer coupling

Shuai Zhang, Masashi Tanaka, and Shoji Yamanaka

# Abstract

Titanium nitride chloride (TiNCl), a band semiconductor with the
_a_-form layered structure, becomes a superconductor with a transition
temperature T_(c) ≈ 18.0 K by electron doping via alkali-metal
intercalation. Upon cointercalation of various kinds of organic solvent
molecules with alkali atoms, the superconducting layered crystals are
swelled to different extents adjusting to the size of the molecules, and
the T_(c) decreases linearly down to 6.5 K as a function of 1/d, where d
is the interlayer separation (basal spacing) of the expanded nitride
layers, implying the importance of the Coulomb interlayer coupling for
superconductivity. This is in strong contrast to a previous finding that
the T_(c) of the electron-doped ZrNCl and HfNCl with the _b_-form
layered structure rather increases with the increase of d upon a similar
cointercalation of solvent molecules.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.86.024516 PACS number(s): 74.62.Dh, 74.10.+v,
74.25.fc, 74.62.Bf

## I Introduction

Most recently developed high-transition-temperature (high-_Tc_)
superconductors, such as cuprates, MgB2, and iron pnictides, have
characteristic two-dimensional layered structures.[1, 2, 3] Continuing
interest has been generated in the favorable factor of two-dimensional
(2D) structures in realizing high-_Tc_ superconductivity.[4] The role of
interlayer coupling for electron pairing has been discussed by various
researchers.[5, 6, 7] The first systematic study on the interlayer
coupling in superconductivity was made on intercalation compounds of
transition-metal sulfides, 2H-TaS2 and 2H-NbS2, with Lewis bases by
Gamble _et al_. before the discovery of cuprate high-_Tc_
superconductors.[8] The pristine 2H-TaS2 is a layered superconductor
with T_(c) = 0.8 K. Various kinds of Lewis bases, such as pyridine, and
alkyl amines can be intercalated, expanding the separation of TaS2
superconducting layers. Lewis bases act as electron donors. Although the
T_(c) increases upon intercalation, it is almost insensitive at about 3
K to the expansion of the basal spacing from 9 to 57 A. The T_(c) of
2H-NbS2 rather decreases from 6.2 to 2-4 K upon similar intercalation.
The insensitivity of T_(c) to the expansion of basal spacing suggests
that the interlayer coupling is not important to the stability of the
superconducting state, and the attractive electron-electron interaction
is confined to TaS2 and NbS2 metallic layers. Intercalation of organic
compounds with long alkyl chains into bismuth-based high-_Tc_ cuprates
Bi2Sr2Ca_(m − 1)Cu_(m)O_(y) (_m_ = 1 and 2) was studied.[9] It was
reported that even though the interlayer distance remarkably increased
to tens of angstroms, the T_(c) was nearly the same as that of the
pristine cuprates, suggesting again the superconductivity is governed by
the 2D nature of the pristine compounds. Baker _et al_.[10] measured
muon spin resonance (μ⁺SR) of similar bismuth-based high-T_(c) cuprates
and found that the 2D superfluid density was constant irrespective of
the expanded basal spacings with long alkyl chains.

We have developed a new series of layered superconductors based on metal
nitride chlorides _M_NCl (_M_ = Zr, Hf) by electron doping via
alkali-metal intercalation.[11] The pristine host layers have the
SmSI-type structure, called the β form, containing double honeycomb
nitride layers, [_M_N]2, sandwiched by close-packed chloride layers,
Cl[_M_N]2Cl. Electrons are doped into the nitride layers, and the
compounds change to superconductors with considerably high T_(c)’s of
 15 and  25 K for _b_-ZrNCl and _b_-HfNCl, respectively.[11, 12] Organic
solvent molecules are cointercalated with alkali atoms, expanding the
interlayer spacing up to 28 A, keeping the carrier concentration
unchanged; T_(c) increases by 1.5-2 K as the spacing increases.[13,
14]β-ZrNCl has a disconnected cylindrical Fermi surface characteristic
of 2D crystals.[15, 16] The expansion of the c lattice parameter by
cointercalation is considered to make the cylindrical Fermi surface
smoother to increase nesting of the Fermi surface, which would enhance
the superconducting pairing interaction.[17] It has been confirmed that
the electron-doped β-_M_NCl cannot be conventional electron-phonon BCS
superconductors since the electron carrier concentration is very
low,[18] and the electron-phonon coupling constant observed is too small
to explain the relatively high T_(c)’s.[19] The large gap ratios were
evidenced by specific heat and tunneling spectroscopy:[17, 20] the small
isotope effect[21] is also unconventional. The compounds do not contain
any magnetic ions; a magnetic pairing mechanism is also excluded. Charge
and spin fluctuations have been proposed as the possible candidates for
the pairing mechanism.[16, 22]

There is another layered polymorph in _M_NCl with the FeOCl orthorhombic
layered network, called the a form. The nitride layers in the a form are
composed of an orthogonal 2D network derived from a single NaCl
layer.[23] In this study, we have found that electron-doped TiNCl with
the _a_-form layered structure becomes superconductors with T_(c) ≈ 18.0
K upon alkali-metal intercalation. The compound can be cointercalated
with solvent molecules, expanding the basal spacing d up to 21 A, and
the T_(c) decreases linearly down to 6.5 K as a function of 1/d,
implying the importance of the interlayer Coulomb coupling on the
superconducting pairing.

## II Experiment

The host compound TiNCl was prepared by a method described
elsewhere.[23] Alkali metal A (_A_ = Li, Na, K, Rb) intercalation was
carried out using 0.1 M alkali-metal naphthalene solutions in
tetrahydrofuran (_A_-Naph/THF).[24] The reactants were mixed in such a
ratio that the resulting compositions have a molar ratio _A_/TiNCl 0.25.
Alkali-metal contents of the resulting compounds were determined to be
Li_(0.13⁻), Na_(0.16⁺), K_(0.17⁻), and Rb_(0.24)-TiNCl by inductively
coupled plasma (ICP) analysis. The as-prepared compounds with A = Li and
Na were THF-cointercalated phases, which were changed into
uncointercalated compounds A_(x)TiNCl by evacuation. Propylene carbonate
(PC) and butylene carbonate (BC) countercalated compounds with Na were
derived from the as-prepared Na_(0.16)(THF)_(y)TiNCl by immersion in the
respective solvents (Solv). Powder x-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns were
measured using an imaging plate (IP) Guinier camera (Huber 670G) with
CuK_(q1)(λ = 1.540596 A) and MoK_(α1) radiation (λ = 0.709260 A), where
the air-sensitive samples were sealed in a thin Pyrex glass capillary
and rotated on the goniometer to avoid preferred orientation. Magnetic
susceptibility was measured using a superconducting quantum interference
device (SQUID) magnetometer (Quantum Design SQUID VSM) in
zero-field-cooled (ZFC) and field-cooled (FC) modes. The anisotropic
effect of magnetization was measured on uniaxially oriented pellet
samples; x-ray rocking curve measurement revealed that the ab plane of
the crystals was oriented in ±4^(∘). Electrical resistivity was measured
by a Lake Shore ac resistance bridge (Model 370AC) using a cell with an
indium gasket.[23] The manipulation of samples was performed in an
Ar-filled glove box (MBRAUN).

## III Results and Discussion

Lattice parameters of TiNCl and Na-intercalated samples are compared in
Table 1. The parameters in the ab plane are essentially unchanged upon
intercalation, while the c parameter increases depending on the sizes of
alkali-metal atoms and cointercalated molecules as evidenced by the XRD
patterns in Fig. 1(a). The Rietveld analysis of Na_(0.16)TiNCl is shown
in Fig. 1(b). It was found that upon Na intercalation, the space group
(SG) of the pristine TiNCl is changed from Pmmn to Bmmb having a
centered cell with a mutual shift of TiNCl layers by a/2 along the ab
plane. The d spacing of the centered cell corresponds to half of the c
parameter. The interlayer spacing of Na_(0.16)TiNCl expands to 13.1 A
upon cointercalation of THF as shown in Fig. 1(c). The spacing further
increased up to 21 A with countercalation of larger solvent molecules PC
and BC (Table 1). A_(x)TiNCl (A = K and Rb) have SG Immn, suggesting
that TiNCl layers are mutually shifted in the ab plane by a/2 + b/2,
with the alkali atoms being coordinated by eight chlorine atoms between
the chlorine layers. All of the cointercalated compounds were found to
have SG Immn. The lattice parameters and SG of Li_(0.13)TiNCl were
unchanged from those of the pristine TiNCl.

The temperature dependence of the magnetic susceptibility of the
Na-intercalated compounds Na_(0.16)(Solv)_(y)TiNCl (Solv = THF, PC) is
shown in Fig. 2(a). The uncointercalated compound Na_(0.16)TiNCl shows a
clear superconducting transition at T_(c) = 18.1 K with a high shielding
superconducting volume fraction (VF). In a previous study we prepared
similar alkali-metal-intercalated TiNCl by using reactions with
alkali-metal azides AN₃ (A = Li, Na, K, Rb) at elevated temperatures of
280-350 ^(∘)C in vacuum.[11] The reaction was not mild, and partial
deintercalation of chlorine atoms took place simultaneously, forming
A_(x)TiNCl_(1 − y) (y = 0.1-0.25). Although the

Figure 1: (Color) (a) XRD patterns of TiNCl and the intercalation
compounds Na_(0.16)(Solv)_(y)TiNCl(Solv = THF, PC) with expanded d
spacing in a low-angle reflection range. (b) The Rietveld analysis of
the XRD pattern of Na_(0.16)TiNCl with space group Bmmb. (c) Schematic
illustration showing the expansion of the basal spacing of TiNCl upon Na
and THF cointercalation.

reaction products had similar lattice parameters and showed
superconductivity, the T_(c)’s were ∼16.3 K for all kinds of
alkali-metal intercalation compounds. The superconducting volume
fractions were as low as 0.1

The T_(c)’s and the superconducting VF of the Na-intercalated compounds
obtained in this study are listed in Table 1. Figure 3 shows the T_(c)’s
determined by magnetic susceptibility measurements as a function of 1/d
for alkali metals and solvent countercalated compounds prepared in this
study. T_(c) decreases with the increase of the basal spacing. The data
fit on a linear line passing through the origin, suggesting the
importance of the Coulomb interlayer coupling in the pairing mechanism
in this system. It should also be noted that the T_(c) of
uncointercalated compounds A_(x)TiNCl (A = Na, K, Rb) also fit on this
line except Li_(0.13)TiNCl. The as-prepared sample
Li_(0.13)(THF)_(y)TiNCl has a basal spacing of 13.0 A similar to that of
Na_(0.16)(THF)_(y)TiNCl and a T_(c) = 10.0 K. The uncointercalated
compound Li_(0.13)TiNCl was obtained by evacuation at 150 ^(∘)C, which
has the smallest basal spacing of 7.8 A, the same as that of the
pristine TiNCl. However, T_(c) was found to be ∼6.0 K, much lower than
the value expected for the small basal spacing of Fig. 3. Li ions are
small enough in size to penetrate into chlorine layers, forming double
LiCl layers between TiN layers, [TiN]₂(Li_(0.13)Cl)(CIL_(0.13))[TiN]₂,
in which Li ions are located close to TiN superconducting layers in
parallel with Cl atoms. On the other hand, in the THF cointercalated
compound, Li ions are coordinated with THF molecules between chlorine
layers [CITi₂N₂CIL]Li_(0.26)(THF)_(y)[CITi₂N₂Cl]. The low T_(c) of
Li_(0.13)TiNCl with the small d spacing suggests that the location of
positive centers may also influence the Coulomb interlayer coupling for
superconductivity. The linear relation shown in Fig. 3 appears to be
applied to the structure where the positive centers are located between
the chlorine layers as shown in Fig. 1(c) for the Na-THF cointercalated
compound. In the preparation of Na-intercalated compounds, we obtained
samples with varying Na contents, Na_(x)TiNCl and Na_(x)(THF)_(y)TiNCl
(0.06  ≤ x≤ 0.23). The T_(c)’s were constant at 18.0 and 10.2 K,
respectively, in this range.

Figure 4 shows the temperature dependence of the resistivity of
Na-intercalated compounds with and without countercalation. Although the
transition was broad, zero resistivity was obtained on the Na and Na-THF
cointercalated samples. The transition temperatures correspond to the
temperatures found by the magnetic susceptibility measurements in Fig.
2. The gradual increase in the resistivity prior to the superconducting
transition would not be intrinsic, but rather extrinsic due to grain
boundaries. A similar negative slope of resistivity near T_(c) was also
observed on electron-doped β-structured ZrNCl and HfNCl.[12, 25]

The temperature dependence of the upper critical magnetic fields H_(c2)
was measured on preferred-orientation pellet samples Na_(0.16)TiNCl and
Na_(0.16)(Solv)_(y)TiNCl (Solv = THF, PC) with the magnetic field
parallel (H∥c) and perpendicular (H⊥c) to the c axis, as shown in Fig.
2(b). The T_(c)’s were determined on the temperature sweep curves at
variously

Figure 4: (Color) (a) The temperature dependence of the electrical
resistivity of Na_(0.16)TiNCl; the inset shows an expanded-scale plot
around T_(c). (b) Normalized resistivity $\rho/\rho_{\rm max}$ for
Na_(0.16)TiNCl and cointercalation compounds at low temperatures.

Figure 3: (Color) T_(c) vs 1/d for A_(x)TiNCl (A = Li, Na, K, Rb)
superconductors with and without cointercalation prepared in this study.

Figure 2: (Color) (a) The temperature dependence of the magnetic
susceptibility of the Na-intercalated compounds with and without
cointercalation under a magnetic field strength of 10 Oe. (b) H_(c2)-T
phase diagram of Na-intercalated compounds with and without
cointercalation.

fixed magnetic fields. The counteracted samples showed broad transitions
at high magnetic fields due to a reversible temperature range [14] and
correspondingly had large error bars in Fig. 2(b). The H_(c2)/T curves
show an upturn from a low magnetic field due to the low-dimensional
nature of the samples. The anisotropic γ of the anisotropic
Ginzburg-Landau (GL) model was estimated from the equation,
γ = (dH_(c2)^( ⊥ c)/dT)/(dH_(c2)^( ∥ c)/dT) under a magnetic field
stronger than 1 T. The GL coherence lengths (ξ_(ab) and ξ_(c)) were
determined using the relations
−(dH_(c2)^( ⊥ c)/dT)_(T_(c)) ≈ Φ₀/(2πξ_(ab)²T_(c)) and
−(dH_(c2)^( ⊥ c)/dT)_(T_(c)) ≈ Φ₀/(2πξ_(ab)ξ_(c)T_(c)), together with
γ = ξ_(ab)/ξ_(c). [26] The results are listed in Table 1. Note that
although the anisotropic parameter of the THF cointercalated compound is
larger than that of the uncointercalated compound, the β-structured
superconductor Li_(0.48)(THF)_(y)HNCl was reported to have a much larger
value of 3.7, and the coherence lengths ξ_(ab)/ξ_(c) = 59.6 A/15.9 A.
[22]

As mentioned in the previous paragraph, the T_(c) dependence to the d
spacing of the TiNCl intercalation compounds is quite different from
that of β-MNCl (M= Zr, Hf). The β-form compounds have a disconnected
cylindrical Fermi surface favorable for nesting, [15, 16] while the
electron-doped α-structured TiNCl has a single oval Fermi surface
centered at the Γ point, [27] suggesting that the possible nesting of
Fermi surfaces discussed for the β-form compounds should be excluded in
the TiNCl compounds. The anisotropic properties on H_(c2) are quite
different between the α- and β-structured compounds. The anisotropy GL
parameter for B-Li_(0.48)(THF)_(y)HNCl is much larger than that of
Na_(0.16)(THF)_(y)TiNCl, and the coherence length ξ_(c) was estimated to
be 15.9 A, comparable to the basal spacing of 17.8 A, suggesting that
the layers are weakly Josephson coupled. In Na_(0.16)(THF)_(y)TiNCl, the
coherence length ξ_(c) = 35 A is much larger than the basal spacing of
13 A, implying the importance of interlayer coupling.

This is the first intercalated system with T_(c) sensitive to interlayer
coupling over a wide range of variable spacings. Harshman _et al._[5]
have discussed the importance of the Coulomb interlayer coupling and 2D
carrier concentration in layered high-T_(c) superconductors. Yin _et
al._[27] also proposed a possible pairing assisted by charge
fluctuations in nonmagnetic TiNCl superconductors. Bill _et al._[7]
proposed the importance of electronic collective modes to explain the
relatively high T_(c) of β-HfNCl intercalation compounds and showed that
even if the structure has strong anisotropy, it cannot be reduced to a
purely 2D model, and interlayer Coulomb interaction should be taken into
account for superconductivity. Kusakabe [28] has discussed theoretically
the pair-hopping mechanism in the superconductivity of K-doped TiNCl. In
layered K_(0.25)TiNCl, single-particle interlayer hopping may be
prohibited. The Cooper pairs formed in the superconductor layer can be
scattered from a layer to the neighboring layer through quantum
density-density fluctuation, and the three-dimensional (3D)
superconducting state may appear in the layered compound. More detailed
theoretical investigation of the interlayer interaction is one of the
keys to understanding the superconductivity of layered material.

## IV Summary

In summary, we have measured the superconductivity of the electron-doped
TiNCl with variable interlayer distances and found that the
superconducting layers are Coulomb coupled. Although the compound has
the anisotropic 2D structure like β-structured MNCl, the coherence
length along the c direction is much larger than the interlayer spacing,
suggesting 3D superconductivity.

###### Acknowledgements.

This work has been supported by the Japan Society for the Promotion of
Science (JSPS) through its "Funding Program for World-Leading Innovative
R&D on Science and Technology (FIRST) Program" and by a Grant-in-Aid for
Scientific Research (Grants No. 19105006 and No. 19051011) of the
Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science, and Technology of
Japan.

## References

* [1] J. G. Bednorz and K. A. Muller, Z. Phys. B **64**, 189 (1986). *
[2] J. Nagamatsu, N. Nakagawa, T. Muranaka, Y. Zenitani, and J.
Akimitsu, Nature (London) **410**, 63 (2001). * [3] Y. Kamihara, T.
Watanabe, M. Hirano, and H. Hosono, J. Am. Chem. Soc. **130**, 3296
(2008). * [4] R. A. Klemm, _Layered Superconductors_ (Oxford University
Press, Oxford, 2012), Vol. 1. * [5] J. M. Wheatley, T. C. Hsu, and P. W.
Anderson, Nature (London) **333**, 121 (1988). * [6] D. R. Harshman, A.
T. Fiory, and J. D. Dow, J. Phys. Condens. Matter **23**, 295701
(2011). * [7] A. Bill, H. Morawitz, and V. Z. Kresin, Phys. Rev. B
**68**, 144519 (2003). * [8] F. R. Gamble, J. H. Osiecki, M. Cais, R.
Pisharody, F. J. DiSalvo, and T. H. Geballe, Science **174**, 493
(1971). * [9] J. H. Choy, S. J. Kwon, and G. S. Park, Science **280**,
1589 (1998). * [10] P. J. Baker, T. Lancaster, S. J. Blundell, F. L.
Pratt, M. L. Brooks, and S.-J. Kwon, Phys. Rev. Lett. **102**, 087002
(2009). * [11] S. Yamanaka, J. Mater. Chem. **20**, 2922 (2010). * [12]
S. Yamanaka, K. Hotehama, and H. Kawaji, Nature (London) **392**, 580
(1998). * [13] T. Takano, T. Kishiume, Y. Taguchi, and Y. Iwasa, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **100**, 247005 (2008). * [14] K. Hotehama, T. Koiwasaki, K.
Umemoto, S. Yamanaka, and H. Tou, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **79**, 014707
(2010). * [15] C. Felser and R. Seshadri, J. Mater. Chem. **9**, 459
(1999). * [16] K. Kuroki, Phys. Rev. B **81**, 104502 (2010). * [17] Y.
Kasahara, T. Kishiume, T. Takano, K. Kobayashi, E. Matsuoka, H. Onodera,
K. Kuroki, Y. Taguchi, and Y. Iwasa, Phys. Rev. Lett. **103**, 077004
(2009). * [18] Y. Taguchi, A. Kitora, and Y. Iwasa, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**97**, 107001 (2006).

* (19) R. Heid and K. P. Bohnen, Phys. Rev. B **72**, 134527 (2005). *
(20) A. Sugimoto, K. Shohara, T. Ekino, Z. Zheng, and S. Yamanaka, Phys.
Rev. B **85**, 144517 (2012). * (21) H. Tou, Y. Maniwa, and S. Yamanaka,
Phys. Rev. B **67**, 100509 (2003). * (22) H. Tou, Y. Maniwa, T.
Koiwasaki, and S. Yamanaka, Phys. Rev. B **63**, 020508 (2000). * (23)
S. Yamanaka, T. Yasunaga, K. Yamaguchi, and M. Tagawa, J. Mater. Chem.
**19**, 2573 (2009). * (24) M. Ohashi, K. Uyeoka, S. Yamanaka, and M.
Hattori, Bull. Chem. Soc. Jpn. **64**, 2814 (1991). * (25) H. Tou, Y. J.
Tanaka, M. Sera, Y. Taguchi, T. Sasaki, Y. Iwasa, L. Zhu, and S.
Yamanaka, Phys. Rev. B **72**, 020501 (2005). * (26) T. P. Orlando, E.
J. McNiff, S. Foner, and M. R. Beasley, Phys. Rev. B **19**, 4545
(1979). * (27) Q. Yin, E. R. Ylvisaker, and W. E. Pickett, Phys. Rev. B
**83**, 014509 (2011). * (28) K. Kusakabe, J. Phys. Chem. Solids (to be
published).
