# Structural properties of the sesquicarbide superconductor La₂C₃ at
high pressure

X. Wang,¹ I. Loa,¹ K. Syassen,^(1, •) R. K. Kremer,¹ A. Simon,¹ M.
Hanfland,² and K. Ahn³

¹Max-Planck-Institut fur Festkorperforschung, Heisenbergstrasse 1,
D-70569 Stuttgart, Germany

²European Synchrotron Radiation Facility, BP 220, F-38043 Grenoble,
France

³Department of Chemistry, Yonsei University, Wonju 220-710, South Korea

24 March 200524 August 2005

###### Abstract

The effect of pressure on the structural properties of lanthanum
sesquicarbide La₂C₃ (T_(c)=13 K) has been investigated at room
temperature by angle-dispersive powder x-ray diffraction in a diamond
anvil cell. The compound remains in the cubic Pu₂C₃-type structure at
pressures up to at least 30 GPa. The corresponding equation of state
parameters are reported and discussed in terms of phase stability of
La₂C₃. Pressure-volume data of the impurity phase LaC₂ are reported also
for pressures up to 13 GPa.

2005 10.1103/PhysRevB.72.064520 PACS number(s): 75.50.−y, 61.50.Ks,
62.50.+ p, 77.80.Bh

## 1 Introduction

Superconductivity in binary rare-earth carbides has been an intensively
investigated topic for many years. Outstanding in this family of
compounds with respect to their superconducting transition temperatures
T_(c) are the sesquicarbides RE₂C₃, RE being the nonmagnetic rare-earth
metals Y and La. These systems recently regained attention due to the
finding by Amano _et al._ and Nakane _et al._ who reported the
successful synthesis of binary Y₂C₃ under high-pressure conditions (∼5
GPa). They reported transition temperatures T_(c) and critical fields
B_(c2) of 18 K and >30 T, respectively.[1, 2]

All RE carbides of composition RE₂C₃ are isotypic; they crystallize in
the cubic Pu₂C₃ structure-type[3] (see Fig. 1). Electronic structure
calculations, based on the Pu₂C₃ structure type, have been carried out
recently for Y₂C₃ by Shein _et al._ and by Singh and Mazin.[4, 5] Singh
and Mazin[5] specifically discuss the origin and magnitude of the
electron-phonon coupling in Y₂C₃. They identify low-frequency metal atom
vibrations to have the largest coupling whereas the contribution of the
high-frequency C-C stretching vibrations is found to be comparatively
small.

So far, the samples of Y₂C₃ showing a T_(c) of 18 K have been
characterized by x-ray powder diffraction only. A more detailed
investigation of these phases with respect to the exact composition and
the phase diagram is still pending. In this respect La₂C₃, which shows
superconductivity with T_(c) up to 13.2 K and which can be prepared at
ambient pressure, is better understood.[6, 7, 8]

We report here the equation of state and the effect of pressure on the
structure of La₂C₃. The structural properties were measured up to 30 GPa
using synchrotron powder x-ray diffraction in the angle-dispersive mode.
Our primary motivation was to investigate how pressure affects the
structural degrees of freedom of the Pu₂C₃-type phase; these are thought
to play a key role in controlling the details of the electronic
structure in the vicinity of the Fermi level. Second, the equation of
state and phase stability of La₂C₃ is of interest in the context of
pressure synthesis of rare-earth carbides. To our knowledge,
pressure-dependent studies similar to the ones presented here have not
been reported so far for any of the known rare-earth and actinide
sesquicarbides.

## 2 Sample characterization and diffraction experiments

The superconducting properties of La₂C₃ depend sensitively on the carbon
content. Spedding _et al._ and Gschneidner _et al._ report a homogeneity
regime for La₂C_(3 − x), which ranges from La₂C_(2.81) to La₂C_(3.01)
with cubic lattice parameters ranging from 8.803 A to 8.818 A.[6, 7]
Recently, Simon and Gulden reinvestigated the phase diagram of
La₂C_(3 − x) ((0 < x < 0.33)).[8] They find that the boundary phases
with x=0 and x=0.33 are homogeneous but that by sufficiently extended
annealing, samples within the homogeneity range tend to phase separate
into the boundary phases with x=0 and x=0.33. According to magnetic
susceptibility measurements[9] these boundary phases have sharp
superconducting transitions at 5.6 K for x=0.33 and at 13.2 K for x=0.
The latter value obtained for the stoichiometric phase La₂C₃ is
appreciably increased over the early T_(c) of 11 K reported by Giorgi
_et al.[10, 11]_ The 13.2 K phase shows critical fields B_(c2)≥17 T,
significantly enhanced over B_(c2)=12 T found by Francavilla _et
al.[12]_ (see also Ref. 13).

The polycrystalline sample of La₂C₃ used in the present study was
prepared by arc melting appropriate quantities of La metal (Alfa, 99.99

Figure 1: (Color online) The Pu₂C₃-type cubic crystal structure of La₂C₃
[space group (SG) d̄3d (No. 220), Z=8 formula units in the cubic cell].
The dicarbide anions occupy the voids in bisphenoids of the metal
substructure. Note: Different from the standard crystallographic
setting, the origin of the indicated unit cell is shifted into a La
position.

in vacuum (10⁻⁵ mbar) for 1 day and then stored in a dried argon
atmosphere. The sample pellets were annealed at 650 ^(∘)C for 3 days and
cooled to room temperature at a rate of 10 ^(∘)C/h. All subsequent
sample manipulations, including preparations for pressure experiments,
were done in dry argon atmosphere.

The phase composition was checked by laboratory-based powder x-ray
diffraction measurements using Cu Kα₁ radiation; these showed La₂C₃ as
the majority phase (∼85

For the synchrotron x-ray diffraction measurements the sample was ground
to a fine powder and a small amount of the powder was transferred into
the gasket of a diamond anvil cell (DAC). Nitrogen was used as a
pressure medium. When nitrogen solidifies (2.5 GPa at 300 K), it causes
some additional Bragg reflections (typically weak) due to its various
high-pressure phases. Angle-dispersive powder x-ray diffraction patterns
(wavelength λ = 0.4176 A) were measured at the beamline ID9 of the
European Synchrotron Radiation Facility, Grenoble, using image plate
detection. The images were integrated using the program fit2d to yield
intensity versus 2θ diagrams.[15] To improve powder averaging, the DAC
was oscillated by ±3^(∘). The ruby luminescence method was used for
pressure measurement.[16, 17]

## III Results and Discussion

Figure 3 shows representative diffraction diagrams of La₂C₃ collected at
5 and 15 GPa. The cubic phase of La₂C₃ was observed up to the highest
pressure of this study, 30.7 GPa, and after releasing pressure. Extra
Bragg reflections seen in the diffraction diagrams are consistent with
the presence of tetragonal LaC₂ (SG I4/mmm, No. 139, Z=4). The
reflections due to LaC₂ gradually disappeared in the pressure range
10-13 GPa. Upon releasing pressure, the tetragonal phase was clearly
present again at ambient conditions.

The diffraction patterns were analyzed by the Rietveld method using the
program GSAS.[18, 19] The refined parameters of the sesapicarbide phase
(space group $I\bar{4}3d$) were the lattice constant, the fractional
coordinate (x, x, x) of the 16c (La) site, a common isotropic thermal
parameter for all atom sites, a Chebyshev polynomial background,
pseudo-Voigt profile function parameter, and an overall intensity
scaling factor. The refinements were not sensitive to the exact value of
the positional parameter v, 0, 0.25 of the carbon 24d site. Hence, v was
fixed at 0.3049 (Ref. [3]), corresponding to a C-C distance of 1.236 A
at ambient, and assumed independent of pressure. A preferred orientation
correction was applied, but was found to result in only minor
improvements of the refinements. Two-phase refinements were performed in
order to account for the admixture of tetragonal LaC₂, but only the unit
cell parameters were refined for this phase; its internal parameter for
the carbon position was assumed constant (z=0.4024,[14] corresponding to
a C-C distance of 1.284 A at ambient). Figure 3 illustrates the results
of the refinements for the two patterns collected at 5.0 and 15.0 GPa.
The convergence was achieved at residuals (with a subtracted background)
R_(wp)=8.7

The experimental pressure-volume data of La₂C₃ are shown in Fig. 4. At
30 GPa, La₂C₃ is compressed by 18

Figure 3: Observed, calculated, and difference x-ray powder diffraction
patterns for La₂C₃ at 5.0 and 15 GPa. The diffraction patterns were
refined assuming an admixture of a tetragonal LaC₂ phase (Ref. [14]).
Vertical markers indicate Bragg reflections of the two phases.

Figure 2: Diamagnetic shielding and electrical resistance (inset) of the
La₂C₃ sample used for the high-pressure x-ray diffraction experiment.
The diamagnetic shielding was measured in a field of 0.7 mT after the
sample had been cooled in zero field to 2 K.

and the volume is comparable to that of Y2C3 at ambient conditions. The
pressure-volume data were fitted by a Birch equation of state[20]

$$P(x) = \frac{3}{2}B_{0}[x^{-7} - x^{-5}]\left[ 1 - \frac{3}{4}(B_{0}^{\prime} - 4)(1 - x^{-2}) \right],$$

where x = (_V_/_V_0)1/3 is a reduced length. The parameters are the
volume V0, the bulk modulus B0, and its pressure derivative B0, all at
zero pressure. The fitted parameters and their standard deviations are
given in Table 1. The obtained value for V0 is consistent with
literature data.[3, 8]

Among the sesquicarbide compounds with the cubic Pu2C3-type structure,
La2C3 has the largest lattice parameter and therefore is expected to
represent the most compressible candidate in this family of compounds.
There appears to be no experimental data available on the bulk moduli of
other cubic rare-earth sesquicarbides to compare with. The bulk modulus
of La2C3 at 30 GPa is about 250 GPa. This value would be an upper limit
for the ambient-pressure bulk modulus B0 of Y2C3; it is much lower than
the calculated one (_B_0 = 363 GPa) reported in Ref. 4.

At ambient conditions, the volume per La2C3 formula unit (85.68 A3) is
smaller than that of the constituents La metal and carbon in the diamond
modification (La metal 37.5 A3/La, diamond 5.67 A3/C, 2 x 37.5 + 3 x
5.67 = 92.0 A3). So, the _P_D_V term in the free-energy difference
favors the formation of the compound under pressure. However, because of
the large compressibility of the La metal [ B0(La) = 25 GPa, Ref. 21],
the _P_D_V term changes sign at about 5 GPa (Fig. 4). Hence, La2C3 is
not necessarily a thermodynamically stable phase at all pressures
covered in our experiment. A high-temperature experiment performed above
5 GPa may result in decomposition or, perhaps, the formation of a
metal-rich carbide.

The Pu2C3-type structure is closely related to the anti-Th3P4-type. This
similarity becomes obvious when writing the stoichiometry as La4(C2)3
instead of La2C3. The metal atoms in the Pu2C3 structure form a
three-dimensional (3D) network of condensed RE8 bisphenoids. The
dicarbide anions are centered at the interstitial 12a site (3/8, 0, 1/4)
and oriented along the $\overline{4}$ axes of the bisphenoids (Fig. 1)
whose shape depends on the positional parameter x.[22, 23] For La2C3 we
have _x_(La) = 0.05, which is intermediate between nearly equal lengths
of all edges (_x_ = 1/32) and equal center-corner distances (_x_ =
1/12). Near x = 0.05 the metal-metal coordination is 3+2+6 and the
bisphenoids can host elongated entities.

Within the uncertainty of our data, the positional parameter _x_(La)
stays constant under pressure (Fig. 4). This means that the coordination
polyhedron around C2 is compressed isotropically, and there is no change
in the second neighbor coordination. Actually, at ambient pressure the x
parameters of all cubic rare-earth and actinide sesquicarbides cluster
around 0.051 with a quite narrow spread of +-0.002.[24]

The arrangement of metal ions in La2C3 is similar to that of the c116
[16-atom body-centered cubic (bcc)] phase of high-pressure Li, which can
be interpreted as a 2 x 2 x 2 x 2 superstructure of bcc.[25] In
Li-_c_116 a pseudogap is formed, involving a lowering of the density of
states _N_(_EF_) at the Fermi level, which leads to a decrease of the
total energy relative to any of the common high-symmetry phases of
elemental metals. Despite the pseudogap formation, the c116 phase of Li
is a superconductor with _T_c > 10 K (see Ref. 26 and literature cited
therein). As for La2C3, the Fermi level is calculated to also fall into
a local minimum of the density of states (DOS).[27] This is
qualitatively similar to what is reported for Y2C3.[4, 5] It is not
clear whether the formation of a local DOS minimum in the sesquicarbides
is a consequence of the structural distortion of the metal sublattice
away from bcc. In any case, the states in the DOS minimum of Y2C3 show a
strong coupling to "symmetry-preserving" metal atom displacements, i.e.,
a change in the x parameter.[5]

For La2C3, a C-C distance of 1.236 A is given in Ref. 3. A slightly
larger distance, about 1.29 A (Ref. 8), appears more plausible.
Unfortunately, our experiments do not pro

Figure 4: Unit cell volume of La2C3 as a function of pressure. The solid
line refers to a fitted Birch relation. The dashed line sketches the
_P_-_V_ relation of the elemental constituents La metal and carbon
(diamond form) taken in appropriate amounts (16 La + 24 C). The inset
shows the positional parameter _x_(La) as a function of pressure. Solid
symbols are for data measured under pressure, open symbols are used to
represent the x value obtained after pressure cycling (open square with
error bar) and corresponding literature data (Refs. 3 and 8) (open
diamonds).

  ---------- ---------------------- ---------- ---------- ---------
              $\nu_{0}^{\rm meas}$      V₀         B₀     
   Compound           (Å3)             (Å3)      (GPa)      _B_′
    La2C3            684.96          686.6(4)   89.0(20)   5.5(3)
     LaC2            101.65          102.3(3)   76.3(90)   4.6(15)
  ---------- ---------------------- ---------- ---------- ---------

Table 1: Summary of fitted equation-of-state parameters [_V_0, B0, and
_B_′, see Eq. (1)] for cubic La2C3 and tetragonal LaC2. The V0 values
refer to the volume of the respective conventional unit cell. Also
listed is $V_{0}^{\rm meas}$, which refers to the ambient-pressure value
measured with Cu_K_α1 radiation.

vide any information on the pressure dependence of the C-C distance.
This distance will correlate with the degree of charge transfer between
La d and antibonding (π^(*)) states of the C₂ unit. We can expect that
the charge transfer is reduced under pressure, corresponding to an
increasing back-donation effect.

We now turn to LaC₂, the impurity phase in our sample. LaC₂ crystallizes
in a body-centered tetragonal structure (Fig. 5). The C₂ units in LaC₂
(C-C distance 1.28 A) are reported to be oriented parallel to the c
axis,[14; 28] they are sixfold coordinated by La atoms that form
elongated octahedra.

The pressure-volume data of LaC₂ are shown in Fig. 6. Parameters
obtained by fitting a Birch relation to the high-pressure data are given
in Table 1. The back-extrapolated zero pressure volume given in Table 1
is 0.3

The diffraction pattern of LaC₂ was completely lost at pressures above
13 GPa, but it reappeared upon releasing pressure. It is left to a
separate study to find out whether LaC₂ undergoes a reversible
pressure-induced phase transition. Already at ambient pressure, the
volume of LaC₂ is larger than that of the constituents (LaC₂=51 A³ per
formula unit at P=0, La+2 C =48.84 A³). So, application of pressure
should be a strong driving force for a phase change, not ruling out at
this point a pressure-induced amorphization as a precursor to phase
separation. Another question, brought up by studies of CaC₂ at ambient
pressure,[29; 30] concerns the orientation of the C₂ dumbbells in
tetragonal LaC₂. Our data point to a possible c/a anomaly near ambient
pressure (see inset of Fig. 6), which could be related to a
pressure-dependent reorientation.

In conclusion, the present high-pressure structural study gives
quantitative information on the equation of state and structural
parameters of superconducting La₂C₃. The results may serve as a
reference for the as yet unknown high-pressure behavior of other cubic
rare-earth sesquicarbides. The results are also believed to provide
useful input for modeling the pressure-dependence of the electronic
structure and the electron-phonon coupling of La₂C₃.

## References

* [*] Corresponding author. Email address: k.sysassen@fkf.mpg.de * [2]
G. Amano, S. Akutagawa, T. Muranaka, Y. Zenitani, and J. Akimitsu, J.
Phys. Soc. Jpn. **73**, 530 (2004). * [3] T. Nakane, T. Mochiku, H.
Kito, J. Itoh, M. Nagao, H. Kamakura, and Y. Takano, Appl. Phys. Lett.
**84**, 2859 (2004). * [4] M. Atoji and D. Williams, J. Chem. Phys.
**35**, 1960 (1961). * [5] I. R. Shein and A. L. Ivanovskii, Solid State
Commun. **131**, 223 (2004). * [6] D. J. Singh and I. I. Mazin, Phys.
Rev. B **70**, 052504 (2004). * [7] F. H. Spedding, K. A. Gschneidner,
Jr., and A. H. Daane, Trans. AIME **215**, 192 (1959). * [8] K. A.
Gschneidner and F. W. Calderwood, Bull. Alloy Phase Diagrams **7**, 86
(1986). **7**, 86 (1986). * [9] A. Simon and T. Gulden, Z. Anorg. Allg.
Chem. **630**, 2191 (2004). * [10] T. Gulden, Ph.D. thesis, Universitat
Stuttgart (1997). * [11] A. L. Giorgi, E. G. Sklarz, M. C. Krupka, and
N. H. Krikorian, J. Less-Common Met. **17**, 121 (1969). * [12] A. L.
Giorgi, E. G. Sklarz, N. H. Krikorian, and M. C. Krupka, J. Less-Common
Met. **22**, 131 (1970). * [13] T. L. Francavilla and F. L. Carter,
Phys. Rev. B **14**, 128 (1976). * [14] R. W. Henn, Ph.D. thesis,
Universitat Karlsruhe (1996). * [15] D. W. Jones, I. J. McColm, and J.
Yerkees, J. Solid State Chem. **92**, 301 (1991).

Figure 5: (Color online) The tetragonal CaC₂-type crystal structure of
LaC₂ [SG I4/_mmm_ (No. 139), _Z_=2, _a_=3.937, _c_=6.580, La in 2a
(0,0,0), C in 4e (0,0,z), _z_=0.4026, distance C-C = 1.289 Å after Ref.
[14]). The C₂ units, oriented along c, are sixfold coordinated by La.

Figure 6: Unit cell volume of tetragonal LaC₂ as a function of pressure.
The solid line refers to a fitted Birch relation. The inset shows the
c/a ratio as a function of pressure.

* [15] A. P. Hammersley, S. O. Svensson, M. Hanfland, A. N. Fitch, and
D. Haussermann, High Press. Res. **14**, 235 (1996). * [16] G. J.
Piermarini, S. Block, J. D. Barnett, and R. A. Forman, J. Appl. Phys.
**46**, 2774 (1975). * [17] H. K. Mao, J. Xu, and P. M. Bell, J.
Geophys. Res. **91**, 4673 (1986). * [18] A. C. Larson and R. B. van
Dreele, "GSAS: General Structure Analysis System," Los Alamos National
Laboratory Report No. LAUR 86-748 (2000). * [19] B. H. Toby, J. Appl.
Crystallogr. **34**, 210 (2001). * [20] F. Birch, J. Geophys. Res.
**83**, 1257 (1978). * [21] K. Syassen and W. Holzapfel, Solid State
Commun. **16**, 533 (1975). * [22] B. G. Hyde and S. Andersson,
_Inorganic Crystal Structures_ (Wiley, New York, 1989). * [23] W.
Carillo-Cabrera, J. Curda, K. Peters, and H. G. von Schnering, J. Solid
State Chem. **147**, 372 (1999). * [24] ICSD, Inorganic Crystal
Structure Database, Fachinformationszentrum (FZJ) Karlsruhe, Release
2003. * [25] M. Hanfland, K. Syassen, N. E. Christensen, and D. Novikov,
Nature (London) **408**, 174 (2000). * [26] S. Deemyad and J. S.
Schilling, Phys. Rev. Lett. **91**, 167001 (2003). * [27] J. S. Kim, R.
K. Kremer, O. Jepsen, and A. Simon, Curr. Appl. Phys. (to be
published). * [28] A. L. Bowman, N. H. Krikorian, G. Arnold, T. Wallace,
and N. G. Nereson, Acta Crystallogr., Sect. B: Struct. Crystallogr.
Cryst. Chem. **24**, 459 (1968). * [29] J. R. Long, R. Hoffmann, and H.
J. Meyer, Inorg. Chem. **31**, 1734 (1992). * [30] M. Knapp and U.
Ruschewitz, Chem.-Eur. J. **7**, 874 (2001).
