# Coexistence of superconductivity and long-range magnetic order in
ErPd₂Sn

R. N. Shelton, L. S. Hausermann-Berg, M. J. Johnson, P. Klavins, H. D.
Yang

Ames Laboratory and Department of Physics, Iowa State University, Ames,
Iowa 50011

###### Abstract

Heat-capacity, magnetic-susceptibility, resistivity, and alloying
experiments indicate that long-range magnetic order and
superconductivity coexist below ∼1 K in a well-ordered, homogeneous
sample of ErPd₂Sn. The sample enters the superconducting state at T_(c)
= 1.17 K followed by magnetic order at T_(M) = 1.00 K. The
superconducting state is retained to 40 mK, the lowest temperature
attained.

## I Introduction

The intermetallic compound ErPd₂Sn belongs to a class of materials known
as Heusler alloys.[1] These ternary compounds, which have the general
composition of RX₁Z, crystallize in the cubic Cu₂MnAl-type structure
(space group _Fm_ 3_m_) and have been widely investigated because of
their magnetic properties.[2] Superconductivity was first reported for
some Heusler alloys by Ishikawa and co-workers,[3] who focused on the
systems _R_Pd₂Sn and _R_Pd₂Pb where R is a rare-earth metal. In this
paper they reported only a magnetic transition for ErPd₂Sn at about 0.75
K. Their initial report of both magnetic and superconducting transitions
for YbPd₂Sn was confirmed by Kierstead _et al._,[4] indicating a state
of coexistence of these two cooperative phenomena. Additional Heusler
alloys were reported to be superconducting by Wernick _et al.[5]_ In
previous work,[6] we had observed a superconducting transition for
ErPd₂Sn in both inductive and resistive measurements. Among
rare-earth-metal ternary compounds which exhibit magnetism and
superconductivity, erbium is the rare-earth metal most often involved in
the phenomenon of coexistence or reentrant superconductivity.[7]
Probably the most interesting manifestations of the competition between
superconductivity and magnetic order have occurred in ternary
rare-earth-metal compounds with Er as the rare-earth element.
Confirmation of coexistence in ErPd₂Sn permits direct comparison with
other Er-containing ternary superconductors such as ErMo₂Se₈ (Ref. 8),
ErMo₂Se₈ (Ref. 9), ErRh₂B₄ (Ref. 10), Er₃Rh₅Sn₁₃ (Refs. 11 and 12), and
Er₃Os₈Sn₁₃ (Ref. 13). Moreover, ErPd₂Sn contains a significantly higher
percentage (25

## II Experimental Details

All samples were prepared from high purity elements (Sn, 99.999+

## III Results and Discussion

Heat-capacity data for ErPd₂Sn between 0.66 and 29.2 K are presented in
Fig. 1. The peak corresponding to the onset of magnetic order is evident
at T_(M) = 1.00 K. This ordering temperature is slightly higher than the
one previously reported.[3] Due to the size of this peak, any
superconducting transition in the temperature range 0.5 to 2 K is
undetectable by our heat-capacity measurement. To estimate the entropy
associated with this magnetic transition, we assume the electronic and
lattice contributions to the heat capacity are identical to those of
LuPd₂Sn, and subtract a parametrization of the normal-state heat
capacity of LuPd₂Sn from our data. The resulting heat capacity retains
the sharp magnetic peak centered at 1.00 K and drops to zero above about
5 K. Integration of this heat capacity up to 5 K yields an entropy
associated with the magnetic transition of S = 0.76R which is close to
the value expected for a doublet ground state of S = R ln2 = 0.69R. Our
experimental value may be high since we have not accounted for any
contribution to the heat capacity due to the electronic Schottky effect
from crystalline electric field levels. Based on an analysis of YbPd₂Sn,
Kierstead and co-workers[4] predicted a magnetic doublet ground state
for ErPd₂Sn (Γ₆). Our heat-capacity and magnetic-susceptibility data
presented below are consistent with this prediction.

The variation of the inverse molar susceptibility with temperature is
presented in Fig. 2. A least-squares fit of the data over the entire
temperature range (2.6 to 380 K) was made to the function in Eq. (1),
where C = Nμ_(eff)²/3k_(B) is the Curie-Weiss constant, N is the
Avogadro number, k_(B) is the Boltzmann constant, Θ is the Curie-Weiss
temperature, and X₀ is the temperature-independent susceptibility which
represents contributions from Van Vleck paramagnetism, core
diamagnetism, and the Pauli paramagnetism of the conduction electrons:

$$\chi_{m} = \frac{C}{T - \Theta} + X_{0}\ .$$
(1)

Values from this fit are as follows: X₀ = (9 ± 5) × 10⁻³ emu/mol,
Θ = −5.8 ± 0.4 K, and an effective paramagnetic moment
μ_(eff) = (9.57 ± 0.20)μ_(B), where μ_(B) is the Bohr magneton. Although
the uncertainties in the fitting parameters are large, the effective
moment obtained by fitting the entire data set is in excellent agreement
with the Hund’s rule ground state for the free ion Er³⁺; namely,
μ_(eff)^(theor) = 9.59μ_(B). Upon close inspection, however, crystalline
electric field effects are evident as curvature in the X_(m)⁻¹ versus T
plot. Fitting only data below 30 K to Eq. (1) yields a lower effective
moment (μ_(eff) = 6.59μ_(B)) as well as a Curie-Weiss temperature
(Θ = −1.8 K) which is in better agreement with the magnetic ordering
temperature (T_(M) = 1.00 K) determined from the heat-capacity data. The
negative value for Θ indicates an antiferromagnetic ordering as opposed
to ferromagnetism. This hypothesis is strengthened by resistivity and ac
susceptibility data presented below which show the coexistence of
superconductivity with this magnetically ordered state.

The superconducting transition temperature (T_(e)) and cubic lattice
parameter for eight compounds in the pseudoternary system
(Er_(1 − x)Y_(x))Pd₂Sn are shown in Fig. 3 and are presented
quantitatively in Table 1. Values of T_(e) were determined from ac
susceptibility measurements on each sample in both the ingot and powder
form. No

  ------------- ----------- --------------
   Composition     a (Å)      T_(e) (K)
      0.00       6.6834(8)   1.17 − 0.89a
                             1.23 − 1.16b
      0.05       6.6864(8)   1.26 − 1.08a
      0.10       6.6873(6)   1.60 − 1.36a
      0.20       6.6890(8)   2.08 − 1.80a
      0.40       6.6973(6)   2.59 − 2.37a
      0.60       6.7024(8)   3.66 − 3.46a
      0.80       6.7096(8)   4.38 − 4.22a
      1.00       6.7165(8)   5.26 − 5.04a
  ------------- ----------- --------------

Table 1: Cubic lattice parameters and superconducting transition
temperatures for sample in the (Er_(1 − x)Y_(x))Pd₂Sn system.

Figure 3: Superconducting transition temperature (T_(e)) and cubic
lattice parameter as a function of composition for the pseudoternary
system (Er_(1 − x)Y_(x))Pd₂Sn. Error bars indicate transition widths for
T_(e) and experimental uncertainty for the lattice parameter.

Figure 2: Inverse molar magnetic susceptibility versus temperature for
ErPd₂Sn measured in a field of 2.0 kOe.

difference in T_(c) or size of signal was observed between an ingot and
powder of the same sample. Both T_(c) and lattice parameter vary in a
linear manner between the end members. Our T_(c) for YPd₂Sn lies within
the range of values reported previously.[5] The ac susceptibility for
powdered samples of ErPd₂Sn and three pseudoternary compounds with x =
0.05, 0.10, 0.20 was measured to 60 mK. All of these samples remained
superconducting to this lowest temperature of the experiment. We note
that the superconducting transition is completed before the peak in the
heat capacity (T_(M) = 1.00 K) is reached. However, as noted previously,
the shoulder of the magnetic peak in the heat capacity prevents the
detection of the superconducting transition in the calorimetric
measurement.

For ErPd₂Sn, we have also determined T_(c) resistively. The resistivity
of ErPd₂Sn from 300 K to 40 mK is presented in Fig. 4. At 300 K, the
value of the resistivity is 35 μmΩ cm. The temperature dependence of the
resistivity is metalliclike over the entire temperature range with a
residual resistivity ratio of 4.9. As is common, the resistive T_(c) is
slightly higher than the inductive T_(c) (see Table 1). Consistent with
the ac susceptibility data, the resistivity remains zero to the lowest
temperature attained. Thus, the magnetic transition observed in the heat
capacity at T_(M) = 1.00 K does not destroy the superconducting state of
ErPd₂Sn. Rather, magnetic order and superconductivity coexist in the
temperature range between 40 mK and 1.00 K.

## IV Conclusion

The combination of heat-capacity, magnetic-susceptibility, and
resistivity data show that superconductivity and magnetic order coexist
in the Heusler alloy ErPd₂Sn. Upon cooling, ErPd₂Sn first enters the
superconducting state at 1.17 K. Further lowering of the temperature
results in a transition into a magnetically ordered state at 1.00 K
while the superconducting properties are retained.
Magnetic-susceptibility data indicate that crystalline electric field
effects are important at low temperatures, consistent with previous work
on YbPd₂Sn.[4] This conclusion is also supported by a calculation of the
entropy associated with the magnetic transition which favors a
ground-state doublet for ErPd₂Sn. Low-temperature neutron diffraction
experiments are underway to complete the study of crystalline electric
field effects as well as to determine the details of the magnetic
structure.

Prior to the discovery of coexistence of superconducting and magnetic
states in ErPd₂Sn and YbPd₂Sn, only two other crystal structures had
yielded compounds showing the coexistence phenomenon;[18] namely,
ternary molybdenum chalcogenides with the Chevrel-phase structure and
ternary rhodium borides with the CeO₄B₄-type structure. In these two
structures, the rare-earth elements (R) are isolated from each other by
clusters of Mo₆Se₈ or Rh₄B₄, respectively, yielding large R-R distances
of approximately 6.5 and 5.3 A, respectively. The Heusler alloy ErPd₂Sn
presents quite a distinct case, since no autonomous clusters exist and
the rare earth is not crystallographically isolated from the other
metallic constituents. It will be important to learn whether this
distinction is reflected in the details of the magnetic state and the
mechanism by which this ordering occurs in the superconducting state of
ErPd₂Sn.

The competition between the two cooperative phenomena of
superconductivity and magnetic order manifests itself in a variety of
ternary phases containing rare-earth elements.[7] Across the rare-earth
series, Er is most often involved in coexistence or reentrant
superconductivity. Three compounds show reentrance due to either
long-range ferromagnetic order, ErRh₄B₄ (Ref. [19]), or short-range
ferromagnetic order, Er₃Rh₄Sn₁₃ and Er₃Os₄Sn₁₃ (Refs. [11]-[13]). Three
additional Er-based materials exhibit coexistence; namely, the two
Chevrel-phase compounds ErMo₆Se₈ and ErMo₆S₈ (Ref. [18]) and the focus
of this study, ErPd₂Sn. The frequent appearance of Er in compounds where
the free energies of the superconducting and magnetic states are most
comparable is probably not a matter of chance. In all of the ternary
systems mentioned above, the rare-earth crystallographic site is
subjected to symmetry-breaking crystalline electric field effects.
Except for Yb³⁺, which usually has valence instabilities to prevent a
pure Yb³⁺ state, Er³⁺ is the heavy rare-earth ion with a Kramers
degeneracy to ensure at least a doublet ground state and the magnetic
interactions associated with it. Additionally, for systematic magnetic
interactions across the rare-earth series, erbium has the possibility of
weak, but nonzero magnetic interactions (e.g., consider the de Gennes
factor for exchange interactions). The contracted spatial extent of the
4f wave functions found in the heavy rare earths keeps the origins of
superconductivity (conduction electrons) and magnetism (localized
rare-earth metals) distinct, as opposed to heavy-fermion systems where
one system of heavy electrons is responsible for both effects. The
Heusler alloys ErPd₂Sn and YbPd₂Sn have the distinction as the ternary
compounds possessing the greatest concentration of magnetic rare-earth
elements that still become superconducting.

###### Acknowledgements.

Ames Laboratory is operated for the U.S. Department of Energy by Iowa
State University under Contract No. W-7405-Eng-82. This work was
supported by the Director for Energy Research, Office of Basic Energy
Sciences.

Figure 4: Electrical resistivity normalized to the value at 300 K versus
temperature for ErPd₂Sn. The continuous trace in the inset shows the
superconducting transition and the low-temperature limit of 40 mK.

* [43]**Present address: Honeywell, Inc., 12001 State Hwy. 55, Plymouth,
MN 55441.** * [44]**F. Heusler, Verh. Dtsch. Phys. Ges. 5, 219
(1903).** * [45]**See, for example, G. R. MacKay, G. Blaauw, J. Judah,
and W. Leiper, J. Phys. F 8, 305 (1978); P. J. Webster and K. R. A.
Ziebeck, J. Phys. Chem. Solids 34, 1647 (1973).** * [46]**M. Ishikawa,
J.-L. Jorda, and A. Junod, in** _Superconductivity in d- and f-Band
Metals, edited by W. Buckel and W. Weber (Kernforschungszentrum,
Karlsruhe, 1982), p. 141.** * [47]**H. A. Kierstead, B. D. Dunlap, S. K.
Malik, A. M. Umarji, and G. K. Shenoy, Phys. Rev. B 32, 135 (1985).** *
[48]**J. H. Wernick, G. W. Hull, T. H. Geballe, J. E. Bernardini, and J.
V. Waszczak, Mater. Lett. 2, 90 (1983).** * [49]**M. J. Johnson, M.S.
thesis, Iowa State University, 1984 (unpublished).** * [50]**R. N.
Shelton, in** _Superconductivity in d- and f-Band Metals, edited by W.
Buckel and W. Weber (Kernforschungszentrum, Karlsruhe, 1982), p.
123.** * [51]**R. N. Shelton, R. W. McCallum, and H. Adrian, Phys. Lett.
56A, 213 (1976).** * [52]**O. Fischer, A. Treryaud, R. Chevrel, and M.
Sergent, Solid State Commun. 17, 721 (1975).** * [53]**B. T. Matthias,
E. Corenzwit, J. M. Vandenberg, and H. Barz, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci.
U.S.A. 74, 1334 (1977).** * [54]**J. P. Remeika, G. P. Espinosa, A. S.
Cooper, H. Barz, J. M. Rowell, D. B. McWhan, J. M. Vandenberg, D. E.
Moncton, Z. Fisk, L. D. Woolf, H. C. Hamaker, B. M. Maple, G. Shirane,
and W. Thomlinson, Solid State Commun. 34, 923 (1980).** * [55]**S.
Miraglia, J. L. Hodeau, M. Marezio, H. R. Ott, and J. P. Remeika, Solid
State Commun. 52, 135 (1984).** * [56]**Z. Fisk, S. E. Lambert, M. B.
Maple, J. P. Remeika, G. P. Espinosa, A. S. Cooper, H. Barz, and S.
Oseroff, Solid State Commun. 41, 63 (1982).** * [57]**M. J. Johnson and
R. N. Shelton, Solid State Commun. 52, 839 (1984).** * [58]**C. B.
Vining, R. N. Shelton, H. F. Braun, and M. Pelizzone, Phys. Rev. B 27,
2800 (1983).** * [59]**Quantum Design, Inc., San Diego, CA.** *
[60]**Biomagnetic Technologies, Inc., San Diego, CA.** * [61]**R. N.
Shelton, J. Less-Common Met. 94, 69 (1983).** * [62]**D. E. Moncton, D.
B. McWhan, P. H. Schmidt, G. Shirane, W. Thomlinson, M. B. Maple, H. B.
MacKay, L. D. Woolf, Z. Fisk, and D. C. Johnston, Phys. Rev. Lett. 45,
2060 (1980).**
