Type II superconducting parameters of Tl-doped PbTe determined from heat
capacity and electronic transport measurements

Y. Matsushita,¹ P. A. Wianecki,¹ A. T. Sommer,² T. H. Geballe,³ and I.
R. Fisher³

¹Department of Materials Science and Engineering and Geballe Laboratory
for Advanced Materials, Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305,
USA

²Department of Physics, Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305,
USA

³Department of Applied Physics and Geballe Laboratory for Advanced
Materials, Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305, USA

³Department of Applied Physics and Geballe Laboratory for Advanced
Materials, Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305, USA

###### Abstract

Tl-doped PbTe (Pb_(1 − x)Tl_(x)Te) is an anomalous superconductor with a
remarkably high maximum T_(c) value given its relatively low carrier
concentration. Here, we present results of systematic measurements of
superconducting parameters for this material, for Tl concentrations up
to x=1.4

pacs: DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.74.134512 + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL
REVIEW B **74**, 134512 (2006)

## I Introduction

Tl-doped PbTe (Pb_(1 − x)Tl_(x)Te) is a degenerate semiconductor, with a
small carrier concentration of ∼10²⁰ holes/cm³ or less. [1, 2, 3, 4]
However, it is observed to superconduct [1, 2] for Tl concentrations x
beyond a critical value x_(c)∼ 0.3

PbTe has a rocksalt structure and has been treated with reasonable
success using ionic models (i.e., Pb²⁺Te²⁻). [13] Thallium impurities
substitute on the Pb site, and calculations have shown that Tl⁺ is more
stable than Tl³⁺ in the PbTe lattice. [13] This implies that Tl
impurities will act as acceptors, and indeed Hall measurements confirm
that for small doping levels the hole concentration increases by one
hole for every Tl impurity. [3] Carrier freeze-out is not observed to
the lowest temperatures, indicating that the dopant atoms do not behave
as hydrogenlike impurities due to the large static dielectric constant
(ε₀∼ 1000) of the host PbTe. [6] However, for concentrations beyond a
characteristic value, the Hall number p_(H)=1/R_(H)e is observed to rise
at a much slower rate with x and does not increase beyond ∼10²⁰ cm⁻³
[observed elsewhere at 77 K in Refs. 2, 14, and 15 and shown here for
single crystals at 1.8 K in Fig. 1(b)], suggesting that the additional
impurities act in a self-compensating manner. Significantly, within the
uncertainty of these measurements, this characteristic concentration is
the same as x_(c)∼ 0.3

This behavior, combined with the absence of any detectable magnetic
impurities in the diamagnetic susceptibility, has been interpreted as
evidence that the Tl impurities are present in a mixed valence state
composed of a mixture of both Tl⁺ and Tl³⁺ valences for x>x_(c)=0.3

Figure 1: (a) Superconducting transition temperatures T_(c) as a
function of Tl concentration x. Closed symbols are obtained from heat
capacity measurements, and open symbols are from resistivity data. The
line is drawn to guide the eye. (b) Hall number p_(H) =1/R_(H)e as a
function of Tl concentration x at 1.8 K. The solid line shows values
calculated assuming one hole per Tl (Ref. 26). The vertical dashed line
indicates critical Tl concentration x_(c) for superconductivity.

doped PbTe, that are present only for superconducting samples (_x_ >
_x_) and not for nonsuperconducting samples (_x_ < _x_),16 might be
associated with a charge Kondo effect involving these degenerate Tl
valence states. Within such a scenario, the quantum valence fluctuations
associated with the Tl impurities also provide a possible pairing
mechanism for holes in the valence band of the host PbTe.12

In light of the anomalous behavior of Tl-doped PbTe we have investigated
the superconducting properties of single crystal samples for a range of
Tl concentrations up to the solubility limit of approximately 1.5

## II Sample preparation and experimental methods

Single crystals of Pb1-x Tl_(x)Te were grown by an unseeded physical
vapor transport method. Polycrystalline source material was synthesized
by combining PbTe, Te, and either Tl₂Te or elemental Tl in appropriate
ratios and sintering at 600 ^(∘)C, regrinding between successive
sintering steps. For the crystal growth, broken pieces of source
material were sealed in an evacuated quartz ampoule and placed in a
horizontal tube furnace held at 750 ^(∘)C for 7-10 days. A small
temperature gradient of approximately 1 to 2 ^(∘)C/cm allowed crystals
to nucleate and grow at one or both of the cooler ends of the ampoule.
Each vapor growth produced several well-formed crystals up to a few
millimeters in size that could be cut and cleaved to prepare bars for
thermodynamic and transport measurements. The thallium content was
measured by electron microprobe analysis (EMPA) using PbTe, Te, and
Tl₂Te standards. Errors in Tl content x shown in subsequent figures
reflect the uncertainty of the microprobe method for such low dopant
concentrations. The Tl concentration for individual samples was observed
to be homogeneous within the uncertainty of this measurement.

The heat capacity of single crystal samples was measured using a thermal
relaxation technique in a Quantum Design Physical Property Measurement
System. Crystals with a mass of approximately 10-15 mg were prepared
with a flat surface for good thermal contact to the sample platform.
Measurements were made in zero applied field and in a field H = 0.5-1
T > _H_c2. The field was oriented at an arbitrary angle to the crystal
axes, depending on the orientation of the flat surface.

The upper critical field _H_c2 was measured for two representative
values of the Tl content x by following resistive transitions as a
function of temperature for different applied magnetic fields. The
resistivity was measured using geometric bars cleaved from the larger
as-grown crystals, such that the current flowed along the [100]
direction while the magnetic field was oriented parallel to the
equivalent [001] direction. Electrical contact was made using Epotek
H20E silver epoxy on sputtered or evaporated gold pads and showed
typical contact resistances of 1-4 Ω. Resistivity measurements were made
at 16 Hz and with current densities in the range of 25 mA/cm2
(corresponding to a current of 100 μA for low-temperature measurements)
to 1 A/cm2 at higher temperatures. To check for heating effects,
resistivity data were taken for different current densities and for
warming and cooling cycles for each sample. Hall effect data were also
collected for several Tl concentrations at 1.8 K. The Hall voltage was
obtained from linear fits to the transverse voltage for fields between
-9 and 9 T.

## III Results

Heat capacity data for representative Tl concentrations are shown in
Fig. 2 as _C__p_/_T_ vs T2 for applied fields that totally suppress the
superconductivity. For all samples there is a slight curvature in the
data even at low temperatures. This curvature was observed previously
for undoped PbTe samples and was attributed to possible softening of TO
phonon modes.17 Data for Tl-doped PbTe samples are essentially parallel
to those for undoped samples indicating that the phonon contribution is
not affected by Tl substitution and that reasonable comparisons of the
electronic contribution can be made between different dopings.18 Data
were fit to _C_/_T_ = _g_/_T_2 + _d_T_4 from the base temperature (0.3
K) up to 1 K. From b = _N_(12 π⁴/5)_R_D_-3, where R = 8.314 J/(mol K)
and N = 2 for PbTe, we estimate Θ_(D)=168 +-4 K for x = 0

Figure 2: Heat capacity of Pb1–x Tl_(x)Te single crystals, shown as
_C__p_/_T_ vs T2, for representative Tl concentrations. For
superconducting samples, data were taken in an applied field H = 0.5–1
T > _H_c2. The inset shows electronic contribution g (left axis) and
density of states at the Fermi level _N_(0) (right axis) as a function
of Tl concentration x. The dashed line shows values calculated from
known PbTe band parameters and measured values of the Hall number, as
described in the main text. The rapid increase in calculated values of
_γ_ at  0.1

rise in the density of states with x. Values of γ obtained from the
above fits are shown in the inset to Fig. 2 as a function of Tl
concentration x and are in broad agreement with previously published
values for polycrystalline samples.[20]

Heat capacity data in zero field are shown in Fig. 3 for representative
Tl concentrations with T_(c) above 0.3 K. T_(c) values were obtained
from the midpoint of the heat capacity anomaly and agree well with data
obtained from resistive transitions [Fig. 1(a)]. The jump at T_(c), ΔC,
can be estimated using a standard geometric construction extrapolating
normal state and superconducting state behaviors towards T_(c), as
indicated by dashed lines for x=1.4

The upper critical field H_(c2)(T) was determined from resistivity
measurements for two representative Tl concentrations. Representative
data, showing the uniform suppression of the superconducting transition
in an applied field, are shown in Fig. 4 for x=1.4

H_(c2)(0) = 0.69(dH_(c2)/dT)_(T_(c))T_(c).
(1)

Resulting values for x=1.1

Superconducting parameters such as the coherence length and penetration
depth are dependent on the electron mean free path
l=v_(F)=v_(F)μm^(*)/e, where v_(F) is the Fermi velocity and μ is the
hole mobility. From Hall effect measurements at 1.8 K, we find that the
Hall number p_(H) is ∼9 × 10¹⁹ cm⁻³ for x=1.1

Figure 4: Representative resistivity data for x=1.4

Figure 5: Temperature dependence of H_(c2) for x=1.1

Figure 3: C_(μ) vs T in zero applied field showing the superconducting
anomaly for several Tl concentrations x. Dashed lines show the geometric
construction used to obtain ΔC and T_(c) for x=1.4

factor used to calculate the resistivity of these samples. Propagation
of this error is the dominant effect in the uncertainties of subsequent
derived quantities, including ξ₀ and $\lambda_{\rm eff}$.

The Ginzburg-Landau coherence length ξ(0) is calculated from H_(c2)(0)
by

$$H_{c2}(0)=\frac{\Phi_{0}}{2\,\pi\xi^{2}(0)},$$
(2)

where Φ₀=2.0678 × 10⁻¹⁵ T m². Estimates for ξ(0) are 290 A for x= 1.1

$$\xi_{0}=\frac{\alpha\hbar v_{F}}{k_{B}T_{c}},$$
(3)

where the BCS value of α is 0.18. Using values of ξ₀ derived from the
dirty limit approximation, we find v_(F) estimated from this formula
(given in Table 1) is between those calculated separately for the L and
Σ holes. This is consistent with a mixed contribution from both carrier
types due to the substantial scattering implied from the short mean free
path.

The London penetration depth for two carrier types is given by

$$\frac{1}{\lambda_{L}^{2}}=\frac{\mu_{0}n_{L}e^{2}}{m_{L}}+\frac{\mu_{0}n_{ \Sigma}e^{2}}{m_{\Sigma}},$$
(4)

where the superfluid densities n_(L) and n_(Σ) are approximated as the
carrier densities for each carrier type, and m_(L) and m_(Σ) are the
effective masses of each band. The corresponding values of λ_(L) are
listed in Table 1 and are almost independent of orientation. In the
dirty limit, we can estimate the effective penetration depth from

$$\lambda_{\rm eff}=\lambda_{L}(\xi_{0}/l)^{1/2},$$
(5)

values of which are given in Table 1. These estimates are in good
agreement with microwave conductivity measurements that show λ(0) ∼ 2 to
3 μm for x=1.4

## IV Discussion

The above results indicate that Tl-doped PbTe is a type II, BCS
superconductor in the dirty limit, which is not too surprising given
that the material is a doped semiconductor. To a large extent this
observation rules out the possibility of more exotic scenarios for the
superconductivity, such as condensation of preformed pairs, at least for
the highest Tl concentrations. Here, we discuss some implications for
the charge Kondo model that we have previously proposed for this
material and consider alternative explanations. First, we briefly
reiterate the salient features of the charge Kondo model relevant to
understanding these data.

The idea of a charge Kondo effect associated with degenerate valence
(charge) states of a valence-skipping element was first discussed by
Taraphder and Coleman,[23] and was later reexamined in the limit of
dilute impurities for the case T_(c) ∼ T_(K) by Dzero and Schmalian.[12]
Weak hybridization of these degenerate impurity states with conduction
electrons (or in the case of Tl-doped PbTe, with valence band holes)
results in a Kondo-like effect with various parallels to the more common
magnetic case. Here, the pseudospins correspond to zero or double
occupancy of an impurity orbital, which can be described in terms of a
negative effective U. The degeneracy of the two valence states in PbTe
is not accidental but emerges naturally from the doping effect of the Tl
impurities themselves.[12] For values of the chemical potential less
than a characteristic value μ^(*), the impurities are all present as one
valence (Tl^(*)), which act to dope the material. As more impurities are
added, eventually a value of the chemical potential μ^(*) is reached for
which the two valence states are degenerate, and at which value the
chemical potential is then pinned.[12] The resulting charge Kondo
effect, if present, clearly requires that hybridization between the
impurity states and the host material be relatively weak. The
semiconducting nature of the host PbTe would naturally provide an
environment in which the local density of states at the impurity sites
is rather small.

Now, we discuss the origin of the enhanced electronic contribution to
the heat capacity seen in Fig. 2. The density of states at the Fermi
energy, N(0), can be estimated from the linear term γ in the heat
capacity, and resulting values are shown on the right axis of the inset
to Fig. 2. Part of the observed increase in N(0) with x can be
attributed to band filling effects, since the Hall number continues to
rise slowly with x even for x>x_(c)=0.3

                         x=1.1±0.1 at. %   x=1.4±0.1 at. %
  --------------------- ----------------- -----------------
          T_(c)            1.16±0.01 K       1.38±0.03 K
        H_(c2)(0)          0.39±0.04 T       0.60±0.07 T
            l                32±8 Å            19±5 Å
          ξ(0)              290±15 Å          240±14 Å
           ξ₀              2600±700 Å        3000±850 Å
          v_(F)          2.2±0.6×10⁵ m/s   3.0±0.8×10⁵ m/s
          λ_(L)             1600±80 Å        1500±120 Å
   $\lambda_{\rm eff}$     1.4±0.4 μm        1.9±0.5 μm
            κ                 48±12             79±20
          H_(c)             57±14 Oe          54±13 Oe
         H_(c1)             3±0.8 Oe          2±0.5 Oe

Table 1: Superconducting parameters of Pb_(1 − x)Tl_(x)Te for two
representative Tl concentrations.

the measured Hall coefficient using published band parameters and
assuming that the band offset does not change with Tl doping), implying
the presence of additional states associated with the Tl impurities.
Within the charge Kondo model, the additional contribution would arise
from the Abrikosov-Suhl resonance that develops at E_(F) for
temperatures below T_(K). If this is the case, then in principle we can
estimate the concentration of Kondo impurities using the crude
approximation γT_(K) ∼ Rln 2 per mole of impurities. For x = 1.4%, the
observed γ is 0.46 mJ mol⁻¹ K⁻² larger than the expected band
contribution based on the measured Hall coefficient (inset to Fig. 2).
If this enhancement is due to Kondo physics, then for T_(K) ∼ 6 K (the
value estimated in Ref. [5] for x = 0.3%), the concentration of Kondo
impurities is approximately 7 × 10¹⁸ cm⁻³. In comparison, x = 1.4%
corresponds to a Tl concentration of 2 × 10²⁰ cm⁻³. Hence if a charge
Kondo description is appropriate for this material, and if the Kondo
temperature is ∼ 6 K, then only a small fraction (∼ 3 %) of the Tl
impurities are contributing to this effect. Within the charge Kondo
model outlined above, this would imply that the Tl impurities in PbTe
must be characterized by a range of μ^(*) values, such that only the
subset of impurities for which μ = μ^(*) have degenerate valence states.

There are other observations that appear to support this tentative
conclusion. As we had previously noted,[5] the magnitude of the
resistivity anomaly is also less than what would be expected if all of
the Tl impurities were contributing to the Kondo effect. Data for lower
Tl concentrations, for which a reasonable fit of the low-temperature
data can be made over an extended temperature range, indicated that
approximately 1

Invoking Kondo physics of course implies a temperature dependence to the
enhancement of γ for temperatures above T_(K). Our measurements (Fig. 2)
show that the enhancement to γ is temperature independent for
temperatures between 0.3 and 1 K. However, uncertainty in this
difference grows rapidly at higher temperatures due to the increasingly
large phonon contribution to the heat capacity. As a result, we cannot
unambiguously extract the temperature dependence of any heat capacity
enhancement beyond the estimated Kondo temperature of 6 K.

Within a BCS scenario, T_(c) varies exponentially with −1/N(0)V, where V
is the pairing interaction. Figure 6 shows ln (T_(c)) vs 1/γ for samples
with x > x_(c). For samples with T_(c)> 0.5 K, both parameters were
extracted from the same physical crystal. However, for samples with a
lower critical temperature, T_(c) was determined from resistivity
measurements on different crystals from the same growth batch,
introducing additional errors due to uncertainty in the Tl
concentration. As can be seen, ln (T_(c)) scales approximately linearly
with 1/γ within the uncertainty of the measurements. For a constant V,
this would imply that the observed trend in T_(c) with x [Fig. 1(a)] is
due to the increasing density of states (inset to Fig. 2). However, the
situation is less clear if the charge Kondo picture is applicable, in
which case V depends strongly on the Tl concentration,[12] and the
enhancement in N(0) derives from Kondo physics. In the case of a
superconductor with magnetic impurities, although N(0) is enhanced by
this effect, the superconductivity is nevertheless suppressed for
T ∼ T_(K) due to the pair-breaking effect associated with the rapid
fluctuations in the magnetic moment.[24, 25] In the case of the charge
Kondo model, the situation is slightly more complex because the
impurities now provide both a local pairing mechanism as well as a
pair-breaking effect close to T_(K). Consequently, the range of
temperatures over which it is anticipated that T_(c) will be suppressed
is predicted to be much lower than T_(K).[12] in contrast to the case of
magnetic impurities. Hence for the case T_(c) ∼ T_(K), the
superconductivity can in principle benefit from the enhancement in N(0)
due to the charge Kondo effect in a way that it cannot for magnetic
impurities. The observed trend shown in Fig. 6 may reflect this effect,
but it is difficult to obtain quantitative estimates of the relative
contributions to T_(c) from the enhancement in N(0) and the pairing
interaction itself in this crossover regime of T_(c) ∼ T_(K).[12]

In the charge Kondo model, if T_(c) is large compared to T_(K), then the
pseudospin moment is unscreened at T_(c), in which case the
superconductivity is born from preformed pairs. In this limit, one would
anticipate a much smaller anomaly in the heat capacity ΔC/γT_(c) than
the BCS result of 1.43. As noted in Sec. III, this is clearly not the
case for the highest Tl concentrations, consistent with our previous
observation that T_(c) ∼ T_(K) for this material.[5] However, it is
difficult to understand the observed x dependence of ΔC/γT_(c) within
this same picture. Since T_(c) decreases with decreasing x [Fig. 1(a)],
one would expect the superconductivity to become more BCS-like at lower
Tl concentrations. Instead, we find that ΔC/γT_(c) becomes substantially
smaller as x is reduced (inset to Fig. 3). Experiments are in progress
to measure the heat capacity of samples with yet smaller Tl
concentrations to even lower temperatures to see whether this trend
continues.

Could the superconductivity in Tl-doped PbTe have its origin in more
mundane physics after all? While the data presented here enable us to
characterize this material as a BCS superconductor, they do not allow us
to distinguish between different pairing mechanisms. As we have
previously argued,[5] many aspects of the observed thermodynamic and

Figure 6: Plot of ln (T_(c)) vs 1/γ. The dashed line is a guide for the
eye.

transport properties are suggestive of charge Kondo physics. Moreover,
the uniqueness of the Tl impurities, being the only dopant to cause
superconductivity in this material, cannot be ignored. Nevertheless, in
the absence of experiments directly probing the Tl valence (which are
currently in progress), we cannot rule out less exciting possibilities,
including the formation of a narrow impurity band with a relatively
large density of states. In such a case, the pairing interaction would
most likely be phonon mediated, though the substantial residual
resistance might argue that strong Coulomb scattering also plays a role.
The observed low-temperature resistivity anomaly would then presumably
have its origin in some form of weak localization, though the
temperature and field dependence of this feature appear to argue against
such a scenario.[5]

## V Conclusions

In summary, we have shown that Tl-doped PbTe is a type II, BCS
superconductor in the dirty limit. None of these observations is in
disagreement with the charge Kondo model previously described, though
they do put some limitations on its applicability. Specifically, the
relatively small enhancement of the electronic contribution to the heat
capacity implies that if a charge Kondo description is appropriate then
only a small fraction of the Tl impurities can be participating in the
Kondo physics. Within the model described in Ref. [12], this can be
understood in terms of a distribution of μ^(*) values, such that only a
subset of the Tl impurities have both valence states exactly degenerate
for a particular value of the chemical potential within this range,
though this has yet to be experimentally verified.

###### Acknowledgements.

We gratefully thank J. Schmalian, M. Dzero, M. R. Beasley, and B.
Moyzhes for numerous helpful discussions. We also acknowledge Robert E.
Jones for technical assistance with EMPA measurements. This work was
supported by the DOE, Office of Basic Energy Sciences, under Contract
No. DE-AC02-76SF00515. I.R.F. was also supported by the Alfred P. Sloan
and Terman Foundations.

## References

* [1] I. A. Chernik and S. N. Lykov, Sov. Phys. Solid State **23**, 817
(1981). * [2] S. A. Nemov and Y. I. Ravich, Phys. Usp. **41**, 735
(1998). * [3] V. I. Kaidanov and Y. I. Ravich, Sov. Phys. Usp. **28**,
31 (1985). * [4] B. A. Volkov, L. I. Ryabova, and D. R. Khokhlov, Phys.
Usp. **45**, 819 (2002). * [5] Y. Matsushita, H. Bluhm, T. H. Geballe,
and I. R. Fisher, Phys. Rev. Lett. **94**, 157002 (2005). * [6] R.
Dornhaus, G. Nimtz, and B. Schlicht, _Narrow-Gap Semiconductors_, Vol.
98 of Springer Tracts in Modern Physics (Springer-Verlag, New York,
1983). * [7] J. K. Hulm, M. Ashkin, D. W. Deis, and C. K. Jones, Prog.
Low Temp. Phys. **6**, 205 (1970). * [8] B. Y. Moizhes and I. A.
Drabkin, Sov. Phys. Solid State **25**, 1139 (1983). * [9] H. B.
Schuttler, M. Jarrell, and D. J. Scalapino, Phys. Rev. B **39**, 6501
(1989). * [10] J. E. Hirsch and D. J. Scalapino, Phys. Rev. B **32**,
5639 (1985). * [11] M. V. Krasin’kova and B. Y. Moizhes, Sov. Phys.
Solid State **33**, 202 (1991). * [12] M. Dzero and J. Schmalian, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **94**, 157003 (2005). * [13] K. Weiser, Phys. Rev. B **23**,
2741 (1981). * [14] H. Murakami, W. Hattori, and R. Aoki, Physica C
**269**, 83 (1996). * [15] K. G. Gartsman, T. B. Zhukova, and S. A.
Nemov, Inorg. Mater. **21**, 426 (1985). * [16] I. R. Fisher, Y.
Matsushita, H. Bluhm, and T. H. Geballe, Proc. SPIE **5932**, 59321Y
(2005). * [17] A. J. Bevolo, H. R. Shanks, and D. E. Eckels, Phys. Rev.
B **13**, 3523 (1976). * [18] I. A. Chernik and S. N. Lykov, Sov. Phys.
Solid State **23**, 1724 (1981). * [19] Y. I. Ravich, B. A. Efimova, and
I. A. Smirnov, _Semiconducting Lead Chalcogenides_ (Plenum Press, New
York, 1970). * [20] I. A. Chernik and S. N. Lykov, Sov. Phys. Solid
State **23**, 2062 (1981). * [21] N. Werthamer, E. Helfand, and P.
Hohenberg, Phys. Rev. **147**, 295 (1966). * [22] R. J. Ormeno, P. J.
Baker, and C. E. Gough (private communication). * [23] A. Taraphder and
P. Coleman, Phys. Rev. Lett. **66**, 2814 (1991). * [24] M. B. Maple, W.
A. Fertig, A. C. Mota, L. E. Delong, D. Wohlleben, and R. Fitzgerald,
Solid State Commun. **11**, 829 (1972). * [25] E. Muller-Hartmann and J.
Zittartz, Phys. Rev. Lett. **26**, 428 (1971). * [26] The valence band
maximum is centered at the L points of the Brillouin zone and consists
of relatively light holes characterized by m_(l)=0.31m₀ and
m_(s)=0.022m₀ [R. Dornhaus, G. Nimtz, and B. Schlict, _Narrow-Gap
Semiconductors_, Vol. 98 of Springer Tracts in Modern Physics
(Springer-Verlag, New York, 1983)]. Small deviations from
nonparabolicity can be safely ignored in estimating approximate values
for the Fermi level. Somewhat less is known of the secondary band
maximum centered at the Σ points in the Brillouin zone. Reasonable
estimates were reported close to m_(Σ)∼m₀ with an anisotropy of ∼10 [B.
F. Gruzinov, I. A. Drabkin, and Yu. I. Ravich, Sov. Phys. Semicond.
**13**, 315 (1979)]. These holes are substantially more massive and
therefore dominate the density of states. In estimating the Fermi energy
and other electronic parameters from Hall effect measurements, we have
used the appropriate two-band model including the given anisotropies and
have assumed that the band offset (170 meV) does not vary with x. Since
the mobilities of these two bands are very similar in the elastic limit,
the actual hole concentration p does not differ significantly from
p_(H)=1/R_(H)e.
