# Effect of ¹¹B substitution on the superconductivity of MgCNi₃

T. Klimczuk,^(1, 2) M. Avdeev,^(3, *) J. D. Jorgensen,³ and R. J. Cava¹

¹Department of Chemistry, Princeton University, Princeton, New Jersey
08544, USA

²Faculty of Applied Physics and Mathematics, Gdansk University of
Technology, Narutowicza 11/12, 80-952 Gdansk, Poland

³Materials Science Division, Argonne National Laboratory, Argonne,
Illinois 60439, USA

Received 18 December 2004; published 24 May 2005

###### Abstract

The crystal structure of boron-doped superconducting
MgC_(1 − x)¹¹B_(x)Ni₃, studied by powder neutron diffraction, is
reported. The solubility limit of boron is determined to be
approximately x=0.16. The unit cell expands from a=3.810 89(2) A to
3.819 66(2) A as x increases from x=0 to x=0.155. Boron (¹¹B) doping
decreases T_(c) with increasing x: from 7.09 K (x=0) to 6.44 K
(x=0.155).

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.71.184512

## I Introduction

The discovery of superconductivity in MgB₂ (Ref. [1]) motivated a search
for new superconducting materials containing light elements such as
magnesium, boron, and carbon. Surprisingly, superconductivity was
discovered in MgCNi₃ (T_(C)=7 K), in which the high proportion of Ni
metal suggests that magnetic interactions may result in ferromagnetism
rather than superconductivity.² Band-structure calculations show a
narrow peak in the vicinity of the Fermi energy (E_(F)).^(3, *)[9]
However, the density of states (DOS) at E_(F) is not believed to be big
enough to yield ferromagnetism.⁶ The presence of the DOS peak, although
with lower intensity, was confirmed by photoemission and x-ray
spectroscopy experiments.^(7, 10)

Shim _et al._ showed that the Fermi surface is composed of two bands and
proposed that the strong, narrow DOS peak, located just below E_(F),
corresponds to the π^(*) antibonding state of Ni 3d and C 2p, but with a
predominant Ni 3d character.⁶ Therefore, hole doping of MgCNi₃ in
attempts to move the Fermi level into the DOS peak should be of
interest. However, neither increasing T_(C) nor ferromagnetism was
observed with the partial substitution of Co, Fe, Ru, or Mn for Ni
(Refs. [11, 12, 13, 14, 15]) or with inducing carbon
deficiency.^(16, 17)

The carbon atom in MgCNi₃ plays a critical role in its
superconductivity. A single-phase superconducting compound occurs only
in a narrow range of carbon content (0.85<x< 1.0).¹⁶ Shan _et al._
investigated the specific heat of MgC_(x)Ni₃ and showed a difference
between the Sommerfeld parameters of the superconducting (x close to 1)
and nonsuperconducting (x about 0.85) samples.¹⁷ They proposed that the
disappearance of superconductivity is due to a substantial depression of
the electron-phonon coupling caused by decreasing x. Recently, a ¹³C
isotope effect with $\alpha_{\rm C}$=0.54(3) was reported, which
indicates that MgCNi₃ is predominantly a phonon-mediated superconductor
and confirms the important role of carbon in superconductivity.¹⁸

The synthesis of MgCNi₃ requires an excess of both Mg and C to
compensate for Mg evaporation and to ensure carbon incorporation.
Therefore controlled doping of both the Mg site and the C site is
difficult, and crystal structure analysis is required to determine the
true composition. Previous experiments with hole doping on the Ni site
revealed a decrease of T_(C). However, to the best of our knowledge, no
attempts have been reported on doping the C site in MgCNi₃. In this
case, considering the covalent radii of the elements, there are two
obvious candidates for substitution: boron and nitrogen. Here we report
a study of superconductivity in MgC_(1 − x)B_(x)Ni₃.

## II Experimental Section

A series of 0.4 g samples with compositions
Mg_(1.2)C_(1.5 − x)¹¹B_(x)Ni₃ (x=0, 0.05, 0.1, 0.15, 0.2, and 0.25) was
synthesized. The starting materials were bright Mg flakes (99

To avoid the problem of neutron absorption of the natural-abundance B,
the samples for the neutron-diffraction experiments were prepared with a
95

## III Results and discussion

A typical Rietveld plot is shown in Fig. 1 for the example of the x=0.15
sample. All the samples of nominal composition Mg(C_(1 − x)B_(x))Ni₃
contain MgO, and in the samples with x < 0.05, the MgNi_(2.5)B₂ phase is
also observed (Fig. 2). The MgO fraction is around 2

The C site in this intermetallic perovskite was found to be
underoccupied in the whole x range (Fig. 3) in agreement with previous
reports.[16, 24] To determine the boron-doping level, due to the
presence of MgNi_(2.5)B₂, it was required to show that carbon does not
substitute in the boron position in that phase. Therefore, a series of
samples with nominal composition MgNi_(2.5)B_(2 − y)C_(y) (y= 0, 0.125,
0.25, 0.375, and 0.50) was prepared. The same synthesis procedure was
employed. In Fig. 4, the high-angle region of the x-ray diffraction
patterns of all samples is presented. The distinct α₁−α₂ splitting
confirms the high quality of samples. There is no visible shift of the
(214), (303), (220), and (206) peaks, indicating that there is no change
in the unit-cell parameter. Least-squares

Figure 1: Rietveld refinement plot showing the observed (+) and
calculated (solid line) diffraction data and their difference for
MgC_(1.5 − x)¹¹B_(x)Ni₃, x=0.15 at room temperature. The tick marks,
from the top to the bottom, indicate the intermetallic perovskite phase,
MgO, MgNi_(2.5)B₂, and vanadium from the sample holder, respectively.

Figure 3: Total occupancy of the (C/B) site in Mg(C_(1 − x)B_(x))Ni₃ as
a function of nominal boron content.

Figure 2: The refined weight fractions of the intermetallic perovskite
phase, MgO, and MgNi_(2.5)B₂ as a function of nominal B content.

fits to the 20 strongest x-ray reflections between 20^(∘) and 90^(∘)2θ
give the unit-cell parameters: a=4.8801(15) A and 4.8797(11) A, and c
=8.788(2) A and 8.787(2) A for nominal x=0 and 1.0, respectively. These
are consistent with the reported values a=4.887(2) A, c =8.789(4) A.[22]
This difference in cell parameters is less than 1 part in 10⁴, whereas
in comparison, the change in the cell parameter for a 15

The boron distribution between the intermetallic perovskite phase and
MgNi_(2.5)B₂ can therefore be specified by Eq. (1),

MgC_(1 − x)B_(x)Ni₃ = MgC_(z − w)B_(w)Ni₃ + (x − w)/2 MgNi_(2.5)B₂.
(1)

It is known from the refinement that z has about the same value (∼0.935)
for all samples (Fig. 3), and therefore there is only one unknown, w, in
Eq. (1). This value can be found from the experimentally determined
weight fractions of the perovskite and MgNi_(2.5)B₂ phases.

Figure 5 indicates that the data analysis as described above reveals a
linear relationship between the calculated x value and the nominal x in
MgC_(1.5 − x)¹¹B_(x)Ni₃ for x<0.25. The last point (x=0.25) does not
follow the trend, confirming that x = 0.25 exceeds the boron solubility
limit of boron in MgC_(1.5 − x)¹¹B_(x)Ni₃. Therefore, the further
discussion will consider only samples with nominal x< 0.25.

The boron concentration dependence of the lattice constant a is shown in
Fig. 6. For low B contents (x< 0.04) the lattice constant changes
slightly as the B doping is increased. For greater x, the lattice
expands linearly, from a = 3.812 28(2) A to 3.819 66(2) A for the lowest
(x =0.0396) and highest (x=0.155) doping levels, respectively. This is
consistent with the fact that carbon’s covalent radius is smaller than
that of boron.

Finally, magnetic measurements were made using a commercial
superconducting quantum interference device (SQUID) magnetometer
(Quantum Design). The superconducting properties were characterized by
zero-field-cooled dc magnetizations (H_(dc)=10 Oe) from 2 K to 8 K
(magnetic property measurement system–Quantum Design). As seen in Fig.
7, in all cases superconductivity remains bulk in character; however,
smaller diamagnetism is visible for doped samples. The last figure (Fig.
8) shows the dependence of the superconducting critical temperature
(T_(C)) as a function of boron doping. T_(C) was determined as the
temperature where the extrapolation of the steepest slope of χ_(dc)(T)
in the superconducting state intersects the extrapolation of the normal

Figure 4: Powder x-ray diffraction data (CuK_(α)) for
MgNi_(2.5)B_(2 − y)C_(y) for y = 0, 0.125, 0.25, 0.375, and 0.5.

Figure 5: Boron content in the intermetallic perovskite phase, as
determined by neutron diffraction, as a function of nominal boron
content.

Figure 6: The cubic-cell parameter as a function of the experimentally
determined boron content in the intermetallic perovskite phase. The
curve is a guide to the eye.

state to lower temperatures.[18] The x values are those determined in
the neutron-diffraction experiments. As can be clearly seen in Fig. 8,
T_(c) decreases as the boron content decreases: T_(C) changes from 7.09
K to 6.44 K going from the undoped sample (x = 0) to the highly doped
sample (x = 0.155). This change in T_(c) is relatively small compare to
that in Mg(B_(1 − x)C_(x))₂, in which 10

In the simplest picture, considering the calculated DOS, hole doping
should increase the DOS at E_(F) and, as a result, T_(C) should
increase. However, this effect is not observed in the case of partial
substitutions on the Ni site in MgCNi_(3 − x)M_(x) (M = Co, Fe, Ru,
Mn).[11, 12, 13, 14, 15] The experiments showed that the DOS peak near
E_(F) decreases in cobalt-doped and carbon-deficient samples.[7, 10]
More recently, the depression of T_(C) with increasing carbon deficiency
in MgC_(1 − x)Ni₃ was proposed to be due to a substantial depression of
electron-phonon coupling.[17] Either of these effects could account for
the lack of T_(C) enhancement on hole doping, as observed in these cases
and also in the case of MgC_(1 − x)B_(x)Ni₃.

## IV Conclusions

Our neutron-powder-diffraction studies indicate that the true boron
solubility limit in MgC_(1 − x)B_(x)Ni₃ is 0.16. The magnetic
susceptibility measurements show that all samples are superconductors:
however, superconductivity is suppressed slowly with increasing x.
Although the substitution of boron for carbon is expected to be the
least structurally and electronically disruptive of all the chemical
substitutions so far successful in MgCNi₃, due to the chemical
similarity of B and C, this substitution decreases the T_(c), suggesting
that MgCNi₃ has optimal superconducting properties at its intrinsic
composition and electron count. The mixing of carbon and boron on the B
site in MgB₂ has a substantial effect on H_(c2)(T).[25, 26] Analogies
between the role of B in that compound and C in MgCNi₃ suggest that
study of H_(c2)(T) in B substituted MgCNi₃ may be of interest.

## Acknowledgment

This work was supported by the U.S. Department of Energy, Grant No.
DOE-FG02-98-ER45706.

## References

* [1] J. Nagamatsu, N. Nakagawa, T. Muranaka, Y. Zenitani, and J.
Akimitsu, Nature (London) **410**, 63 (2001). * [2] T. He, Q. Huang, A.
P. Ramirez, Y. Wang, K. A. Regan, N. Rogado, M. A. Hayward, M. K. Haas,
J. J. Slusky, K. Inumara, H. W. Zandbergen, N. P. Ong, and R. J. Cava,
Nature (London) **411**, 54 (2001). * [3] S. B. Dugdale and T. Jarlborg,
Phys. Rev. B **64**, 100508(R) (2001). * [4] A. Szajek, J. Phys.:
Condens. Matter **13**, L595 (2001). * [5] D. J. Singh and I. I. Mazin,
Phys. Rev. B **64**, 140507(R) (2001). * [6] J. H. Shim, S. K. Kwon, and
B. I. Min, Phys. Rev. B **64**, 180510(R) (2001). * [7] R. Shein, A. L.
Ivanovskii, E. Z. Kurmaev, A. Moewes, S. Chiuzbian, L. D. Finkelstein,
M. Neumann, Z. A. Ren, and G. C. Che, Phys. Rev. B **66**, 024520
(2002). * [8] J. L. Wang, Y. Xu, Z. Zeng, Q. Q. Zeng, and H. Q. Lin, J.
Appl. Phys. **91**(10), 8504 (2002). * [9] H. Rosner, R. Weht, M. D.
Johannes, W. E. Pickett, and E. Tosatti, Phys. Rev. Lett. **88**, 027001
(2002). * [10] I. G. Kim, J. I. Lee, and A. J. Freeman, Phys. Rev. B
**65**, 064525 (2002). * [11] M. A. Hayward, M. K. Haas, A. P. Ramirez,
T. He, K. A. Regan, N. Rogado, K. Inumaru, and R. J. Cava, Solid State
Commun. **119**, 491 (2001).

Figure 8: Superconducting critical temperature (T_(C)) as a function of
x in MgC_(0.935 − x)¹¹B_(x)Ni₃.

Figure 7: dc-magnetization characterization of the superconducting
transition for all MgC_(0.935 − x)¹¹B_(x)Ni₃ samples, with boron content
as determined by neutron diffraction.

* [12] T. G. Kumary, J. Janaki, A. Mani, S. M. Jaya, V. S. Sastry, Y.
Hariharan, T. S. Radhakrishnan, and M. C. Valsakumar, Phys. Rev. B
**66**, 064510 (2002). * [13] T. Klimczuk, V. Gupta, G. Lawes, A. P.
Ramirez, and R. J. Cava, Phys. Rev. B **70**, 094511 (2004). * [14] T.
Klimczuk and R. J. Cava, Solid State Commun. **132**, 379 (2004). * [15]
A. Das and R. K. Kremer, Phys. Rev. B **68**, 064503 (2003). * [16] T.
G. Amos, Q. Huang, J. W. Lynn, T. He, and R. J. Cava, Solid State
Commun. **121**, 73 (2002). * [17] L. Shan, K. Xia, Z. Y. Liu, H. H.
Wen, Z. A. Ren, G. C. Che, and Z. X. Zhao, Phys. Rev. B **68**, 024523
(2003). * [18] T. Klimczuk and R. J. Cava, Phys. Rev. B **70**, 212514
(2004). * [19] J. D. Jorgensen, J. Faber Jr., J. M. Carpenter, R. K.
Crawford, J. R. Haumann, R. L. Hittermann, R. Kleb, G. E. Ostrowski, F.
J. Rotella, and T. G. Wortlon, J. Appl. Crystallogr. **22**, 321
(1989). * [20] A. C. Larson and R. B. Von Dreele, General Structure
Analysis System (gsas), Los Alamos National Laboratory Report No. LAUR
86-748, 2004 (unpublished). * [21] B. H. Toby, J. Appl. Crystallogr.
**34**, 210 (2001). * [22] W. Jung, Z. Naturforsch. B **32**, 1371
(1977). * [23] M. Avdeev, J. D. Jorgensen, R. A. Ribeiro, S. L. Budko,
and P. C. Canfield, Physica C **387**, 301 (2003). * [24] Q. Huang, T.
He, K. A. Regan, N. Rogado, M. Hayward, M. K. Haas, K. Inumaru, and R.
J. Cava, Physica C **363**, 215 (2001). * [25] R. A. Ribeiro, S. L.
Bud’ko, C. Petrovic, and P. C. Canfield, Physica C **384**, 227
(2003). * [26] T. Masui, S. Lee, A. Yamamoto, H. Uchiyama, and S.
Tajima, Physica C **412-414**, 303 (2004).
