Heat capacity jump at _T_c and pressure derivatives of superconducting
transition temperature in the Ba1-xKxFe2As2 (0.2 <= x <= 1.0) series

Sergey L. Bud’ko,¹ Mihai Sturza,² Duck Young Chung,² Mercouri G.
Kanatzidis,^(2, 3) and Paul C. Canfield¹

¹Ames Laboratory, US DOE, and Department of Physics and Astronomy, Iowa
State University, Ames, Iowa 50011, USA

²Materials Science Division, Argonne National Laboratory, Argonne,
Illinois 60439-8485, USA

³Department of Chemistry, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois
60248-3113, USA

⁴Department of Chemistry, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois
60248-3113, USA

Received 6 March 2013; revised manuscript 12 March 2013; published 22
March 2013

###### Abstract

We present the evolution of the initial (up to ∼10 kbar) hydrostatic
pressure dependencies of _T_c and of the ambient pressure jump in the
heat capacity associated with the superconducting transition as a
function of K doping in the Ba1-xKxFe2As2 family of iron-based
superconductors. The pressure derivatives show a weak but distinct
anomaly near x ∼ 0.7. In the same concentration region, ΔC_(p)|_(T_(c))
deviates from the ΔC_(p) ∝ T³ scaling found for most BaFe2As2-based
superconductors. These results are consistent with a possible
significant modification of the superconducting state, occurring near x
∼ 0.7.

pacs: 10.1103/PhysRevB.87.100509 PACS number(s): 74.62.Fj, 74.70.Xa,
74.25.Bt, 74.62.Dh + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL REVIEW B **87**,
100509(R) (2013)

## I Introduction

For the last half decade a significant experimental and theoretical
effort has concentrated on studies of the physical properties of
Fe-based superconductors and related materials.[1, 2, 3] Of the several
families of Fe-based superconductors discovered to date, the 122,
ΔFe2As2 (ΔE = alkaline earth and Eu) family, is the most studied one.[4,
5, 6] This family offers possibilities for substitutions on all three
crystallographic sites that can result in a complex combination of
steric and carrier-doping effects while maintaining simplicity of the
crystal structure. However, the main body of the published work on the
122 family has focused on the Δ_AE_(Fe1-_x_T_M₂)₂As2 series, in which
the 3d−, 4d−, and sometimes 5d− transition metals substitute for Fe.
This is due to the reasonable ease of growing large, high quality,
homogeneous single crystals.

Despite the fact that in the 122 system, superconductivity, with a _T_c
≈ 38 K, was first reported on K doping of BaFe2As2[7] and this value of
_T_c is still holding a record for bulk superconductivity in the
ΔEFe2As2-related materials, detailed studies of the complete
Ba1-xKxFe2As2 solid solution series are not so common,[8, 9, 10] and
concentrate mainly on the evolution of the crystallographic properties
and the _x-T_ phase diagram. One of the reasons for this is a persistent
difficulty in determination of the reliable procedure for synthesis of
homogeneous Ba1-xKxFe2As2 single crystals in a wide range of K
concentration.

In the hole-doped Ba1-xKxFe2As2 series, superconductivity is observed
over a wide range of K concentrations, 0.15 <= x <= 1.05-[10] [as
compared to 0.03 <= x <= 0.15 for the electron-doped
Ba(Fe1-_x_Co)2As2[11]]. For underdoped Ba1-xKxFe2As2, superconductivity
and magnetism micro-scopically co-exist[12] [similarly to what was
observed in the electron-doped Ba(Fe1-_x_T_M₂)2As2[13, 4]). Near optimal
doping, x ∼ 0.4, several experiments and theoretical calculations give
evidence for a nodeless, near constant, _x__(±) superconducting gap that
changes sign between hole and electron pockets.[14, 15, 16, 17, 18]
Recent ARPES measurements[19] suggest that the _x__(±) superconducting
gap exists in a wide doping range, 0.25 <= x <= 0.7.

KFe2As2 stands out among the members of the Ba1-xKxFe2As2 series. The
reported Fermi surface of KFe2As2 differs from that of the optimally
doped Ba1-xKxFe2As2 having three hole pockets, two centered at the T
point in the Brillouin zone, and one around the M point[20] with no
electron pockets. Quantum criticality, and nodal or _d_-wave
superconductivity in KFe2As2 was suggested in a number of
publications.[21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27] Possible evolution from
_x__(±) to d wave in the Ba1-xKxFe2As2 series has also been
discussed.[28, 29]

Given the debates present in the literature regarding the evolution of
physical properties in the Ba1-xKxFe2As2 series and its apparent
difference from the extensively studied AE(Fe1-_x_T_M₂)₂As2 series, it
is of importance to have a broad set of data on Ba1-xKxFe2As2, in
particular, data related to the superconducting state. In this work, we
present two data sets obtained for the Ba1-xKxFe2As2 series with K
concentrations covering underdoped, optimally doped, and overdoped
regions, up to the end compound, pure KFe2As2. The first set is
comprised of the initial (_P_ <= 10 kbar) pressure dependencies of the
superconducting transition temperatures _T_c(_P_) and is alike the data
reported for Ba(Fe1-_x_Co)2As2.[30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39,
40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57,
58, 59, 60, 61, 62, 63, 64, 65, 66, 67, 68, 69, 70, 71, 72, 73, 74, 75,
76, 77, 78, 79

## II Experimental details

Homogeneous, single phase, Ba_(1 − x)K_(x)Fe₂As₂ polycrystalline powders
with x = 0.2, 0.3, 0.4, 0.6, 0.7, 0.8, 0.9, and 1.0 were synthesized by
a procedure similar to that reported earlier.[10] The starting reagents,
KAs, BaAs, and Fe₂As were prepared by heating elemental mixtures at
450^(∘)C, 650^(∘)C, and 850^(∘)C, respectively. For each composition, a
stoichiometric mixture of these binary compounds was thoroughly ground
to a uniform and homogeneous powder, loaded in an alumina crucible
subsequently enclosed in a niobium tube and then sealed in a quartz
tube, and preheated at 600^(∘)C for 12 h. This sintered mixture was then
r-ground and pressed into a pellet, which was again loaded in a niobium
tube and sealed in a quartz tube. The pellet was heated to 800^(∘)C ≤T≤
1100^(∘)C, depending on the composition, for 24 to 48 h followed by
quenching to room temperature in air. The homogeneity of
Ba_(1 − x)K_(x)Fe₂As₂ polycrystalline powder was ensured by repeating
this process multiple times. The structure and quality of the final
crystalline powders of Ba_(1 − x)K_(x)Fe₂As₂ were confirmed by x-ray
powder diffraction and magnetization measurements and the x values of
all products were estimated by comparing the superconducting T_(c)’s
observed with those precisely determined in the phase diagram reported
previously.[10] For the end-member sample with x = 1.0, the single phase
product was prepared by a flux reaction of Fe/KAs at 1:6 ratio at
1000^(∘)C for 6 h. The pure crystals of KFe₂As₂ were then isolated by
dissolving the excess KAs flux in alcohol under a nitrogen atmosphere.

The synthesis of Ba_(1 − x)K_(x)Fe₂As₂ has been known to be delicate
mainly because of high vapor pressures of K/As and an unfavorable
kinetics toward the composition of optimally doped state x = 0.4 that
exhibits the highest T_(c) in the Ba_(1 − x)K_(x)Fe₂As₂ series.
Particularly for the underdoped region between x = 0.3 and 0.15 where
the superconductivity of Ba_(1 − x)K_(x)Fe₂As₂ emerges, it is very
difficult to obtain highly homogeneous samples with a sharp single
transition because of a very sensitive change in T_(c) by a small
variation in composition in this region (see the phase diagram in Ref.
[10] or in Fig. 3 below). Therefore, in this synthetic procedure, a
closed metal tube, with minimal volume, is necessary to suppress
vaporization of K/As at high temperatures. Also for better control of
K/Ba ratio during the reaction, the annealing temperature was gradually
increased from 800 ^(∘)C for x = 0.9 to 1100^(∘)C for x = 0.2. About
10-20

Low-field dc magnetization under pressure, was measured in a Quantum
Design Magnetic Property Measurement System, MPMS-5, SQUID
(superconducting quantum interference device) magnetometer using a a
commercial, HMD, Be-Cu piston-cylinder pressure cell.[45] Daphne oil
7373 was used as a pressure medium and superconducting Pb or Sn (to have
its superconducting transition well separated from that of the sample)
as a low-temperature pressure gauge.[46] The heat capacity was measured
using a hybrid adiabatic relaxation technique of the heat capacity
option in a Quantum Design Physical Property Measurement System, PPMS-9
or PPMS-14, instrument.

## III Results

### Pressure dependence of T_(c)

An example of M(T) data taken at different pressures is shown in Fig. 1.
An onset criterion was used to determine T_(c). Since none of the
samples was suffering from a distinct change of the transition width
under pressure, alternative criteria (like maximum in dM/dT) yield
similar pressure dependencies. The pressure dependencies of the
superconducting transition temperatures for the samples with all K
concentrations studied in this work are shown in Fig. 2. For the
underdoped sample, with x = 0.2, T_(c) increases under pressure, for
samples close to the optimally doped, x = 0.3, 0.4, the T_(c)(P)
dependencies are basically flat, and for the overdoped samples, x ≥ 0.6,
T_(c) decreases under pressure. For all samples, except the underdoped
x = 0.2 the T_(c)(P) behavior is linear, as such the pressure
dependencies of T_(c) can be well represented by dT_(c)/dP values. The
set of T_(c)(P) data yields the ambient pressure T_(c0)(x) values
defined as extrapolation to P = 0 data under pressure. These values are
consistent with the superconducting transition temperatures obtained
from the analysis of the ambient pressure specific heat data below,
shown as stars in Fig. 2.

A more compact way to look at the pressure dependence of T_(c) in the
Ba_(1 − x)K_(x)Fe₂As₂ series is presented in Fig. 3, where the results
of this work are plotted together with the literature data[44, 47] that
show consistency between different groups/samples in the overlapping
concentration regions. The T_(c0)(x) data are consistent with the
ambient pressure data in the literature[8, 9, 10] and are shown for
reference. The K-concentration dependent pressure derivatives,
dT_(c)/dP, and normalized, d(ln T_(c))/dP, show a clear trend and three
different K-concentrations regions. The pressure derivatives are
positive and rather high for the significantly underdoped samples
(x ∼ 0.2, T_(c) < 20 K). They become small and negative for

Figure 1: (Color online) Example of temperature-dependent magnetization
(zero-field-cooled, taken in 25 Oe applied magnetic field) of
Ba_(0.4)K_(0.6)Fe₂As₂ measured at 1.5, 3.9, 6.5, and 11.1 kbar. The
criterion for T_(c) (for P = 11.1 kbar curve as an example) used in this
work is shown by the arrow. Superconducting transitions in Pb used as a
pressure gauge are seen near 7 K.

x ≤ 0.7, this concentration range covers slightly underdoped, optimally
doped, and part of the overdoped samples; the concentration dependence
of dT_(c)/dP [or d(ln T_(c))/dP] is close to linear in this middle
region. On further increase of x the x dependence of the pressure
derivatives deviated from the shallow linear behavior (this trend is
better seen in the concentration dependence of the normalized pressure
derivatives).

Figure 4 presents a comparison of the relative changes in
superconducting transition temperature under pressure and with K doping.
For 0.2 ≤ x ≤ 0.7, both sets of data can be scaled reasonably well,
illustrating apparent equivalence of the effect of pressure and doping
on T_(c), suggested for other members of the 122 family.[31, 32, 33, 34]
This scaling, however, fails for 0.7 < x ≤ 1.0.

### Jump in specific heat

All samples studied in this work except for x = 0.2 show an unambiguous
jump in specific heat at T_(c) (see Fig. 5 as an example). The T_(c) and
ΔC_(p)|_(T_(c)) values were determined by a procedure consistent with
that used in Ref. [38]. For x = 0.2, the difference between the data
taken in zero field and 140 kOe applied field was analyzed and the error
bars in the obtained ΔC_(p) at T_(c) value are expected to be rather
large. The specific heat jump data for the Ba_(1 − x)K_(x)Fe₂As₂ series
obtained in this work were added in Fig. 6 to the updated BNC plot taken
from Ref. [44]. Again, there appears to be a clear trend; for
0.2 ≤ x ≤ 0.7, the data follow the BNC scaling, in agreement with the
scattered literature data for the samples with K concentrations in this
range. The data for 0.8 ≤ x ≤ 1.0 clearly deviate from this scaling,
with the data for the end-compound KFe₂As₂

Figure 4: (Color online) K concentration dependence of the normalized
pressure derivatives, $d(\ln T_{c})/dP=\frac{v_{c}}{T_{c0}}dT_{c}/dP$
(left axis, circles), and the normalized concentration derivatives,
$d(\ln T_{c})/dx=\frac{1}{T_{c0}}dT_{c}/dx$ (right axis, triangles) of
the superconducting transition temperatures. Dashed line corresponds to
the shared zero on Y axes.

Figure 3: (Color online) d(ln T_(c))/dP, dT_(c)/dP, and T_(c0) (top to
bottom) as a function of K concentration in Ba_(1 − x)K_(x)Fe₂As₂.
Symbols: stars are the data of this work, triangle are the data for
KFe₂As₂ from Ref. [44], and circles are the data for four underdoped
samples obtained by linear fits of the first three-four data points
under pressure in Ref. [47]. T_(c0) values are taken from the linear
fits of T_(c)(P). Two symbols for x = 0.6 correspond to measurements on
two samples of slightly differing quality. Dashed line is a guide for
the eye.

Figure 2: (Color online) Summary plot of the pressure dependence of
T_(c) for the samples studied in this work. Dashed lines are linear fits
to the data except for the x = 0.2 where the fit is a second-order
polynomial. These lines are extended to P = 0. Stars are the T_(c)
values obtained in the analysis of the ambient pressure heat capacity
data below.

being consistent with the previously published value [44]. This is
clearly different from the studied Ba(Fe_(1 − x)_T_M_(x))₂As₂ series for
which the BNC scaling was observed for the samples covering the full
extent of the superconducting dome.

## IV Discussion and Summary

Both sets of measurements point out that some change in superconducting
properties of Ba_(1 − x)K_(x)Fe₂As₂ occurs near the x = 0.7
concentration range. NMR results [29] suggested that the nodal line
structure of the superconducting gap emerges at x ∼ 0.7 without a change
of the gap symmetry, although the possibility of the change of the
superconducting gap symmetry at this concentration was not completely
excluded. These suggested changes were related to a Lifshitz transition,
a disappearance of the electron pockets in the Fermi surface, at similar
K-doping levels [29]. The anomaly in the evolution of the pressure
derivatives with concentration is consistent with what one would expect
in the case of the Lifshitz transition [48], along the same lines as
evolution of dT_(c)/dP was understood in several cuprates [35, 36]. The
observed violation of the BNC scaling hints that some significant
changes might happen in the nature of the superconducting state as well.
These results delineate the difference between transition metal doping
and K doping in the BaFe₂As₂ series concentration and define the
K-concentration region where the superconducting state (possibly the
order parameter) is significantly modified. Further measurements for
concentrations around 70

## Acknowledgments

Work at the Ames Laboratory was supported by the US Department of
Energy, Basic Energy Sciences, Division of Materials Sciences and
Engineering under Contract No. DE-AC02-07CH11358. Work at the Argonne
National Laboratory supported by the US Department of Energy, Office of
Basic Energy Sciences under contract No. DE-AC02-06CH11357. S.L.B.
acknowledges partial support from the State of Iowa through Iowa State
University.

## References

* [1] D. C. Johnston, Adv. Phys. **59**, 803 (2010). * [2] G. R.
Stewart, Rev. Mod. Phys. **83**, 1589 (2011). * [3] Dirk Johrendt, J.
Mater. Chem. **21**, 13726 (2011). * [4] Paul C. Canfield and Sergey L.
Bud’ko, Annu. Rev. Condens. Matter Phys. **1**, 27 (2010). * [5] N. Ni
and Sergey L. Bud’ko, MRS Bull. **36**, 620 (2011). * [6] D. Mandrus, A.
S. Sefat, M. A. McGuire, and B. C. Sales, Chem. Mater. **22**, 715
(2010). * [7] Marianne Rotter, Marcus Tegel, and Dirk Johrendt, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **101**, 107006 (2008). * [8] Marianne Rotter, Michael
Pangerl, Marcus Tegel, and Dirk Johrendt, Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. **47**,
7949 (2008). * [9] H. Chen, Y. Ren, Y. Qiu, Wei Bao, R. H. Liu, G. Wu,
T. Wu, Y. L. Xie, X. F. Wang, Q. Huang, and X. H. Chen, Europhys. Lett.
**85**, 17006 (2009). * [10] S. Avci, O. Chmaissem, D. Y. Chung, S.
Rosenkranz, E. A. Goremychkin, J. P. Castellan, I. S. Todorov, J. A.
Schlueter, H. Claus, A. Daoud-Aladine, D. D. Khalyavin, M. G.
Kanatzidis, and R. Osborn, Phys. Rev. B **85**, 184507 (2012). * [11] N.
Ni, M. E. Tillman, J.-Q. Yan, A. Kracher, S. T. Hannahs, S. L. Bud’ko,
and P. C. Canfield, Phys. Rev. B **78**, 214515 (2008). * [12] Erwin
Wiesenmayer, Huberrus Luetkens, Gwendolyne Pascua, Rustem Khasanov, Alex
Amato, Heidi Potts, Benjamin Banusch, Hans-Henning Klauss, and Dirk
Johrendt, Phys. Rev. Lett. **107**, 237001 (2011).

Figure 6: (Color online) ΔC_(P) at the superconducting transition vs
T_(c) for the Ba_(1 − x)K_(x)Fe₂As₂ series, plotted together with
literature data for various FeAs-based superconducting materials.
Updated plot [44] is used to show the literature data. The line
corresponds to ΔC_(P) ∝ T_(c)^(×) Numbers near the symbols are K
concentration x. Two symbols for x = 0.6 correspond to measurements on
two samples of slightly differing quality.

* [10] D. K. Pratt, W. Tian, A. Kreyssig, J. L. Zarestky, S. Nandi, N.
Ni, S. L. Bud’ko, P. C. Canfield, A. I. Goldman, and R. J. McQueeney,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **103**, 087001 (2009). * [11] H. Ding, P. Richard, K.
Nakayama, K. Sugawara, T. Arakane, Y. Sekiba, A. Takayama, S. Souma, T.
Sato, T. Takahashi, Z. Wang, X. Dai, Z. Fang, G. F. Chen, J. L. Luo, and
N. L. Wang, Europhys. Lett. **83**, 47001 (2008). * [12] A. D.
Christianson, E. A. Goremychkin, R. Osborn, S. Rosenkranz, M. D.
Lumsden, C. D. Malliakas, I. S. Todorov, H. Claus, D. Y. Chung, M. G.
Kanatzidis, R. I. Bewley, and T. Guidi, Nature (London) **456**, 930
(2008). * [13] X. G. Luo, M. A. Tanatar, J.-Ph. Reid, H. Shakeripour, N.
Doiron-Leyraud, N. Ni, S. L. Bud’ko, P. C. Canfield, H. Luo, Z. Wang, H.
H. Wen, R. Prozorov, and L. Taillefer, Phys. Rev. B **80**, 140503
(2009). * [14] S. Graser, T. A. Maier, P. J. Hirschfeld, and D. J.
Scalapino, New J. Phys. **11**, 025016 (2009). * [15] I. I. Mazin and J.
Schmalian, Physica C **469**, 614 (2009). * [16] K. Nakayama, T. Sato,
P. Richard, Y.-M. Xu, T. Kawahara, K. Umezawa, T. Qian, M. Neupane, G.
F. Chen, H. Ding, and T. Takahashi, Phys. Rev. B **83**, 020501
(2011). * [17] T. Sato, K. Nakayama, Y. Sekiba, P. Richard, Y.-M.Xu, S.
Souma, T. Takahashi, G. F. Chen, J. L. Luo, N. L. Wang, and H. Ding,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **103**, 047002 (2009). * [18] K. Hashimoto, A.
Serafin, S. Tonegawa, R. Katsumata, R. Okazaki, T. Saito, H. Fukazawa,
Y. Kohori, K. Kihou, C. H. Lee, A. Iyo, H. Eisaki, H. Ikeda, Y. Matsuda,
A. Carrington, and T. Shibauchi, Phys. Rev. B **82**, 014526 (2010). *
[19] J. K. Dong, S. Y. Zhou, T. Y. Guan, H. Zhang, Y. F. Dai, X. Qiu, X.
F. Wang, Y. He, X. H. Chen, and S. Y. Li, Phys. Rev. Lett. **104**,
087005 (2010). * [20] Talehi Terashima, Motoi Kimata, Nobuyuki Kurita,
Hidetaka Satsukawa, Atsushi Harada, Kaori Hazama, Motoharu Imai, Akira
Sato, Kunihiro Kihou, Chul-Ho Lee, Hijiri Kito, Hiroshi Eisaki, Akira
Iyo, Taku Saito, Hideto Fukazawa, Yoh Kohori, Hisatomi Harima, and
Shinya Uji, Phys. Rev. Lett. **104**, 259701 (2010). * [21] J. K. Dong
and S. Y. Li, Phys. Rev. Lett. **104**, 259702 (2010). * [22] J.-Ph.
Reid, A. M. Tanatar, A. Juneau-Fecteau, R. T. Gordon, S. R. deCorret, N.
Doiron-Leyraud, T. Saito, H. Fukazawa, Y. Kohori, K. Kihou, C. H. Lee,
A. Iyo, H. Eisaki, R. Prozorov, and L. Taillefer, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**109**, 087001 (2012). * [23] S. Maiti, M. M. Korshunov, and A. V.
Chubukov, Phys. Rev. B **85**, 014511 (2012). * [24] R. Thomale, C.
Platt, W. Hanke, J. Hu, and B. A. Bernevig, Phys. Rev. Lett. **107**,
117001 (2011). * [25] J.-Ph. Reid, A. Juneau-Fecteau, R. T. Gordon, S.
Rene de Cotret, N. Doiron-Leyraud, X. G. Luo, H. Shakeripour, J. Chang,
M. A. Tanatar, H. Kim, R. Prozorov, T. Saito, H. Fukazawa, Y. Kohori, K.
Kihou, C. H. Lee, A. Iyo, H. Eisaki, B. Shen, H.-H. Wen, and Louis
Taillefer, Supercond. Sci. Technol. **25**, 084013 (2012). * [26]
Masaonori Hirano, Yuji Yamada, Taku Saito, Ryo Nagashima, Takehisa
Konishi, Tatsuya Toriyama, Yukinori Ohta, Hideto Fukazawa, Yoh Kohori,
Yiji Furukawa, Kunihiro Kihou, Chul-Ho Lee, Akira Iyo, and Hiroshi
Eisaki, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **81**, 054704 (2012). * [27] K. Ahilan, F.
L. Ning, T. Imai, A. S. Sefat, M. A. McGuire, B. C. Sales, and D.
Mandrus, Phys. Rev. B **79**, 214520 (2009). * [28] Simon A. J. Kimber,
Andreas Kreyssig, Yu-Zhong Zhang, Harald O. Jeschke, Roser Valenti,
Fabiano Yokaichiya, Estelle Colombier, Jiaqiang Yan, Thomas C. Hansen,
Tapan Chatterji, Robert J. McQueeney, Paul C. Canfield, Alan I. Goldman,
and Dimitri N. Argyriou, Nat. Mater. **8**, 471 (2009). * [29] Sandra
Droziger, Peter Schweiss, Kai Grube, Thomas Wolf, Peter Adelmann,
Christoph Meingast, and Hilbert v. Lohneisen, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **79**,
124705 (2010). * [30] Lina E. Klintberg, Swee K. Goh, Shigeru Kasahara,
Yusuke Nakai, Kenji Ishida, Michael Sutherland, Takasada Shibauchi, Yuji
Matsuda, and Takahito Terashima, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **79**, 123706
(2010). * [31] S. K. Kim, M. S. Torikachvili, E. Colombier, A. Thaler,
S. L. Bud’ko, and P. C. Canfield, Phys. Rev. B **84**, 134525 (2011). *
[32] Q. Xiong, J. W. Chu, Y. Y. Sun, H. H. Feng, S. Bud’ko, P. H. Hor,
and C. W. Chu, Phys. Rev. B **46**, 581 (1992). * [33] Y. Cao, Q. Xiong,
Y. Y. Xue, and C. W. Chu, Phys. Rev. B **52**, 6854 (1995). * [34] W. H.
Fietz, R. Quenzel, H. A. Ludwig, K. Grube, S. I. Schlachter, F. W.
Hornung, T. Wolf, A. Erb, M. Klaser, and G. Muller-Vogt, Physica C
**270**, 258 (1996). * [35] S. L. Bud’ko, N. Ni, and P. C. Canfield,
Phys. Rev. B **79**, 220516 (2009). * [36] J. S. Kim, G. R. Stewart, S.
Kasahara, T. Shibauchi, T. Terashima, and Y. Matsuda, J. Phys.: Condens.
Matter **23**, 222201 (2011). * [37] J. Zaanen, Phys. Rev. B **80**,
212502 (2009). * [38] V. G. Kogan, Phys. Rev. B **80**, 214532 (2009);
**81**, 184528 (2010). * [39] M. G. Vavilov, A. V. Chubukov, and A. B.
Vorontsov, Phys. Rev. B **84**, 140502 (2011); M. G. Vavilov and A. V.
Chubukov, _ibid._**84**, 214512 (2011). * [40] Ch. Kant, J. Deisenhofer,
A. Gunther, F. Schrettle, A. Loidl, M. Rotter, and D. Johrendt, Phys.
Rev. B **81**, 014529 (2010). * [41] Sergey L. Bud’ko, Yong Liu, Thomas
A. Lograsso, and Paul C. Canfield, Phys. Rev. B **86**, 224514 (2012). *
[42] "Snow.dous.com/products/high-pressure-cell-mpgms.html" * [43] A.
Eiling and J. S. Schilling, J. Phys. F: Metal Phys. **11**, 623
(1981). * [44] E. Hassinger, G. Gredat, F. Valade, S. R. de Cotret, A.
Juneau-Fecteau, J.-Ph. Reid, H. Kim, M. A. Tanatar, R. Prozorov, B.
Shen, H.-H. Wen, N. Doiron-Leyraud, and L. Taillefer, Phys. Rev. B
**86**, 140502 (2012). * [45] V. I. Makarov and V. G. Bar’yakhtar, Zh.
Eksp. Teor. Fiz. **48**, 1717 (1965) [Sov. Phys. JETP **21**, 1151
(1965)].
