# Muon-spin-rotation study of the superconducting properties of Mo₃Sb₇

V. H. Tran,¹ A. D. Hillier,² D. T. Adroja,² and Z. Bukowski³

¹W. Trzebiatowski Institute of Low Temperature and Structure Research,
Polish Academy of Sciences, P.O. Box 1410, 50-950 Wroclaw, Poland

²ISIS Facility, Rutherford Appleton Laboratory, Chilton, Oxfordshire
OX11 0QX, United Kingdom

³Laboratory for Solid State Physics, ETH Zurich, 8093 Zurich,
Switzerland

###### Abstract

We present the microscopic properties of superconducting state in Mo₃Sb₇
(T_(e)=2.2 K) using muon-spin rotation measurements. The
zero-field-cooled and field-cooled (FC) data with an applied transverse
field of 40 mT reveal an irreversibility in the muon relaxation rates
and precessional frequencies below 2 K. We have also found an anomaly
around 0.5 K, which may be related to a process of the vortex melting or
some change in vortex-lattice symmetry. The temperature dependence of FC
muon relaxation rate can be analyzed using a phenomenological double-gap
s-wave model. The observation of a nonlinear field dependence of the
muon relaxation rate is consistent with the occurrence of two
superconducting gaps. Moreover, the magnetic penetration depth λ,
coherence length ξ, superconducting carrier density n_(s), and
effective-mass enhancement m^(*) have been found to be λ≈665 nm, ξ≈12.5
nm, n_(s)≈1.2×10²⁷ carriers/m³, and m^(*)≈18.7m_(e), respectively.

2008 11 November 2008 10.1103/PhysRevB.78.172505 74.70.Ad, 74.25.Jb,
74.25.Qt, 76.75.+i + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL REVIEW B **78**,
172505 (2008)

The superconductivity in Mo₃Sb₇ was discovered several years ago,¹ but
pairing mechanism in this compound is still under discussion. The
conventional BCS-type mechanism was first proposed based on the
magnetization data.¹ On the other hand Dmitriev _et al._,² using
point-contact (PC) Andreev-reflection data, have suggested either a
(s + g) wave or another unconventional mechanism. Furthermore, Candolfi
_et al.³_ have reported magnetic susceptibility, specific heat, and
electrical resistivity down to 0.6 K and have interpreted their data
within the framework of the spin-fluctuation theory. Thus the mechanism
of superconductivity and nature of pairing wave function in Mo₃Sb₇ is an
open debate. Therefore, recently we have also measured specific heat
down to 0.4 K and in magnetic fields up to 2.5 T. Interestingly, our
data hint the presence of two BCS-type gaps with 2Δ(0)₁=4.0k_(B)T_(e)
and 2Δ(0)₂=2.5k_(B)T_(e).⁴ The multigap scenario seems to be supported
by field dependence of the Sommerfeld ratio C_(p)/T at 0.4 K, where one
recognizes a nonlinear C_(p)(H)/T dependence. Since, the PC Andreev
reflection and specific-heat measurements have not given pairing
mechanism unambiguously, the precise technique, such as muon-spin
rotation (μSR) would be helpful in this matter. The muon-spin
depolarization function which, in the case of a type-II superconductor,
results from the distribution of local fields in the vortex state. This
depolarization, or more precisely the Fourier transform, can provide
unique and detailed insights into flux distribution and hence into the
nature of the flux-line lattice, flux lattice melting, and flux pinning.
The second moment of the internal field distribution in a type-II
superconductor is a function of the penetration depth λ, the coherence
length ξ, and the temperature dependence is a measure of the
superconducting gap. Indeed, μSR has been used to show the existence of
multiple gaps in MgB₂,⁵ La_(1.85)Sr_(0.17)CuO₄.⁶ La₂C₃, and Y₂C₃.⁷

In this paper, we report on measurements of the muon-spin rotation for
Mo₃Sb₇ in the superconducting state. As we show below, different
dynamics of motion of flux-line lattice in Mo₃Sb₇ is clearly visible in
the zero-field-cooled (ZFC) and field-cooled (FC) measurements. In
addition to the irreversibility temperature (about 2 K for μ₀H=40 mT),
the temperature dependency of the muon depolarization rate and muon-spin
precessional frequency exhibits an anomaly near 0.5 K, which can be
interpreted due to a process of the vortex melting or some change in
vortex-lattice symmetry. The most important result of our studies is
also the observation of characteristic temperature dependence of the
muon relaxation rate and its field dependence, being described by a
phenomenological double-gap s-wave model. We also derive the
superconducting carrier density 1.2×10²⁷ carriers/m³ and effective-mass
enhancement of 18.7m_(e). The obtained parameters, accompanied with
high-temperature transition found at 50 K,⁸ could make Mo₃Sb₇ to be a
unique example of the bridge between two classes of multiple-transition
superconductors: HTc and heavy-fermion ones.

Mo₃Sb₇ was prepared from Mo and Sb powders (purity 99.95

The μSR measurements were carried out using MuSR spectrometer installed
at ISIS facility of the Rutherford Appleton Laboratory (Chilton, U.K.).
The measurements were performed in transverse field (TF) geometry with
applied magnetic fields up to 50 mT and over the temperature range
0.1-2.5 K using ³He-⁴He dilution refrigerator. Each detector is
normalized for the muon decay and rotated into real and imaginary
components. These two spectra were simultaneously fitted with a
sinusoidal oscillating function with the relaxation Gaussian component
G_(z)(t)=$\sum_{i=1}^{2}$A_(i)
exp($-\frac{\sigma_{i}^{2}t}{2}$)cos(2πν_(i)+$\varphi_{i,\rm real,imag}$),
where the i-th component denotes the contribution from the
superconducting and background phases, respectively, A_(i) is the
initial asymmetry, σ_(i) is the Gaussian relaxation rate, ν_(i) is the
muon-spin precessional frequency, and φ_(i) is the phase offset. The
background term comes from those muons which were implanted into the
silver sample holder and therefore this oscillating term has no
depolarization, i.e., σ₂=0.0μs⁻¹. Typical TF μSR spin precession signals
in the superconducting state at applied field of 40 mT are shown in
Fig. 1. One notices that μSR measurements were also performed in
longitudinal geometry. It appears that there was no change in the
relaxations above and below the superconducting transition, thus, this
may rule out triplet pairing.

Figure 2(a) shows the muon Gaussian depolarization rate σ(T) measured in
a transverse field of 40 mT through two different modes:
zero-field-cooled and sample field cooled from 2.5 K. The overall
behavior of ZFC and FC σ(T) of Mo₃Sb₇ resembles very much those of
multigap superconductors La₂C₃ and Y₂C₃, respectively.[7] For Mo₃Sb₇σ(T)
above T_(c) is essentially independent of temperature and at 2.5 K
amounts to 0.117 μs⁻¹. The temperature independent σ(T) in the normal
state is usually attributed the relaxation of static, on the time scale
of the muon, nuclear moments. Below ∼2.2 K, significant increase in σ(T)
in both FC and ZFC modes is observed. This temperature dependence of
σ(T) shows the establishment of a flux-line lattice and indeed indicates
a decrease of the magnetic penetration depth with decreasing
temperature. Comparing of the ZFC and FC data reveals a substantial
difference between these data. In the ZFC mode σ(T) increases with
decreasing temperature faster than that of FC, thus points to difference
in the numbers of the pinning sites and trapping energies, altered by
magnetic fields and sample history. We may estimate the difference of
the width of the local magnetic-field distribution at the muon sites
ΔW_(H) via the calculation of the difference
ΔW_(H)=($\sigma_{\rm ZFC}$$-\sigma_{\rm FC}$)/γ_(μ), where γ_(μ)=135.5
MHz T⁻¹. The resulting ΔW_(H) displayed in the inset of Fig. 2(a)
suggests an unusual behavior of motion of flux vortices with changing
temperature. From the ΔW_(H)(T) dependence one detects the
irreversibility temperature T_(it) of about 2 K, which is smaller than
T_(c). Interesting feature of the ΔW_(H) data is the appearance of an
upturn in ΔW_(H) below $T_{\rm vm}$= 0.5 K. The behavior reflects a
sudden rearrangement of flux vortices. Such enhanced ΔW_(H) could be
related to the presence of new trapping energy. A similar two-stage
transition of the vortex in superconducting Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O_(8 + δ) had
been observed by Blasius _et al.[10]_ The authors interpreted it as the
intraplanar melting of the vortex structure into a liquid phase of flux
lines.

The temperature dependence of the muon-spin precessional frequency ν of
Mo₃Sb₇ at 40 mT is displayed in Fig. 2(b). In the normal state the value
of the muon frequency is about 5.41 MHz, corresponding to a local field
of 39.9 mT, practically the same value of the applied field strength.
With decreasing temperature below T_(c) the frequency decreases as a
result of the presence of flux lines. At 0.1 K, the ν value in the ZFC
mode amounts to 5.34 MHz, i.e., ∼39.4 mT. This means that only a small
change in the internal field was experienced by muons, which may
indicate a minor change

Figure 2: (Color online) (a) Muon Gaussian depolarization rate in Mo₃Sb₇
taken at a transverse field of 40 mT as a function of temperature. Inset
shows temperature dependence of difference of the width of the local
magnetic-field distribution at the muon sites measured in ZFC and FC
modes. The dashed line is guide for the eyes. (b) Muon-spin precessional
frequency in Mo₃Sb₇ measured at a transverse field of 40 mT vs
temperature. Inset shows the temperature dependence of difference of
local fields sensed by muons in ZFC and FC modes.

Figure 1: (Color online) Transverse-field μSR spin precession signals of
Mo₃Sb₇ at 0.1 K obtained at an applied field of 40 mT. The solid line
represents a least-squares fit of the function described in the text.

in flux-line lattice. Inspection of Fig. 2(b) indicates a distinct
effect of irreversibility as observed in the case of σ(T) data. We
calculated the difference of the fields in the ZFC and FC measurements
through the relation $\Delta\mu_{0}H_{\rm loc}$(n) ($r_{\rm FC}$ -
$\nu_{\rm ZFC}$)/γ_(n) and have shown the temperature dependence of
$\Delta\mu_{0}H_{\rm loc}$(T) in the inset of Fig. 2(b). The obtained
$\Delta\mu_{0}H_{\rm loc}$(T) curve implies different dynamics of the
flux vortices motions in the ZFC and FC modes. Again, we observe a
steplike enhancement of Δμ₀H below $T_{\rm vm}$∼ 0.5 K, indicative of
the development of a sudden inhomogeneity of the local fields in the ZFC
modes. The irreversibility temperature of 2 K is found also in
$\Delta\mu_{0}H_{\rm loc}$(T) curve.

In order to study the mechanism of electron pairing in Mo₃Sb₇ one must
first estimate the relaxation rate associated with nonuniform field
distribution of superconducting phase σ_(s). We evaluated σ_(s) from the
relation σ_(s) = $\sqrt{\sigma^{2}-\sigma_{n}^{2}}$ (Fig. 3), where σ
and σ_(n) are the relaxation rates obtained in the superconducting and
normal states, respectively. To minimize flux pinning we used the
relaxation rates in the FC measurements. In the flux-line lattice (FLL)
state, σ_(s) in a conventional superconductor is expected to increase
with decreasing temperature according to the empirical relation σ_(s)(T)
= σ_(s)(0)[1 - (T/T_(c))^(α)]. In the two-fluid model, the exponent n
would take value of 4, [11] but in model of the ideal charged Bose gas n
would amount to 3/2. [12] Using a value of σ_(s)(0) = 0.193 μm⁻¹, we
have calculated σ_(s)(T) and plotted as dotted and dashed-dotted lines
in Fig. 3, respectively, for the two-fluid and Bose gas models. Clearly,
the reproducibility of the data cannot be accepted.

Next, we have analyzed the σ(T) dependence using the approach
[5]σ_(s)(T) = σ_(s)(0) - δσ(Δ, T), where

$$\delta\sigma(\Delta,T) = \int_{0}^{\infty}f(\epsilon,T)[1\) - \(f(\epsilon,T)]d\epsilon,$$

$$f(\epsilon,T) = \{1 + \exp\{\sqrt{\epsilon^{2} + \Delta(T)^{2}}/k_{B}T\}\}^{- 1},$$

k_(B) is the Boltzmann constant, and Δ(T) is temperature dependence of
the gap. Following Carrington and Manzano, [13] we used approximated
formula Δ(T) = Δ(0)tanh[1.82 * {1.018 * (T_(c)/T − 1)}] [51] with Δ(0)
being the isotropic superconducting gap at 0 T. In Fig. 3 we show
theoretical curve (dashed line) obtained with 2Δ(0)/k_(B)T_(c) = 3.53.
Apparently, the large difference between experimental and theoretical
data provides no support to a conventional single gap s-wave BCS
scenario. Finally, a satisfactory fit of the experimental data would be
achieved in the fitting to a phenomenological two-gap model
σ_(s)(T)=σ_(s)(0) - wδσ(Δ₁, T) - (1 - w) δσ(Δ₂, T). In fact, the model
was proposed by Wang _et al._[14] and by Bouquet _et al._[15] some years
ago for MgB₂ and was applied for the specific-heat data of Mo₃Sb₇. [4]
Following Bouquet _et al._, [15] the penetration gap below T_(c) can be
considered as the sum of the contributions of two bands characterized by
respective gap widths Δ₁(T) and Δ₂(T) and by relative weight w. The
fitting result is shown in Fig. 3 as the solid line with
2Δ(0)₁/k_(B)T_(c)=4.54, Δ(0)₂/k_(B)T_(c)=2.73, and the weight w= 0.7.
The obtained parameters are quite comparable with the specific-heat
data. [4]

From the field dependence of muon relaxation rate we evaluated magnetic
penetration depth λ, coherence length ξ, and upper critical field using
the modified London equation [16]

$$\sigma_{s}(H) = \left(\frac{\gamma_{\mu}}{\sqrt{2}}\right)H\sum_{h,k}\left[\frac{ \exp(-\xi^{2}q_{h,k}^{2})}{\left[1+q_{h,k}^{2}\lambda^{2}/(1-H/H_{c2})^{2} \right]^{2}}\right]^{1/2},$$

where q_(h, k) is the lattice sum over the hexagonal FLL. We have fitted
the values of σ_(s)(H) at 0.1 and 1 K as shown in the inset of Fig. 3.
The best fit (see solid lines) gave λ =665(1) nm, ξ=12.5(9), and
μ₀H_(c2)=2.1 T for the data at 0.1 K, in good agreement with those from
the specific-heat measurements of 660 nm, 12 nm, and 2.24 T. Assuming
that the London penetration depth and coefficient of the electronic
specific heat are related to the effective carrier mass m^(*) and the
superconducting carrier density n_(s) as λ_(L)=
(ε₀m^(<)c²/n_(s)d²)^(1/2) and
γ_(π)=$\frac{\pi^{(3}\pi n_{s})^{1/3}k_{B}^{2}}{3\hbar^{2}}$, and taking
λ =665 nm and γ(0.4 K, 2 T)=42 mJ mol${}_{\rm fit}^{-1}$ K⁻² one
evaluates m^(*)= 18.7m_(e) and n_(s)= 1.19× 10²⁷ m⁻³. It is necessary to
caution that the magnetic penetration depth would be strongly modified
by the presence of impurities and then the estimated m^(*) and n_(s) may
include some large errors. For example, if 25

Figure 3: (Color online) Temperature dependence of the relaxation rate
of superconducting phase in Mo₃Sb₇. The dotted, dashed-dotted, dashed-
and solid lines are theoretical ones. Inset shows field dependence of
σ_(s) at 0.1 and 1 K. The solid lines are theoretical lines.

structure[8] had suggested the Fermi surface to consist of four main
bands, in which one distinguishes the heavier band formed by the 4d
electrons of the Mo atoms and the lighter band composed by s or p
electrons of the Sb atoms. Such large difference in the density of
states and resulting in different Fermi velocities between these two
bands probably leads to the formation of two superconducting gaps in
these two parts of the Fermi surface.

In summary, we have carried out a transverse field muon-spin rotation
experiment on the superconductor Mo₃Sb₇ and have determined the muon
depolarization rate and precession frequency in ZFC and FC modes. We
found a large irreversible effect below irreversibility temperature,
which results from the pinning of magnetic-flux vortices. We observed a
sudden change in σ(T) and ν(T) at about 0.5 K, probably due to a process
of the vortex melting or to some change in the vortex-lattice symmetry.
Further work on small-angle neutron scattering (SANS) would help in
further understanding the nature of the phase transition near 0.5 K.
From the temperature dependence of the muon-spin relaxation we estimated
the magnetic penetration depth and coherence length. The σ_(s)(7)
dependence is more consistent with the scenario of two distinct BCS-type
superconducting gaps with 2Δ(0)₁/k_(B)T_(c)=4.54 and
Δ(0)₂/k_(B)T_(c)=2.73. The field dependence of σ_(s)(H) provides strong
support for this interpretation. The values of 2Δ(0)₁/k_(B)T_(c),
Δ(0)₂/k_(B)T_(c), λ = 665 nm, and ξ=12.5 nm are in well agreement with
those deduced from the specific-heat data. We also derived
superconducting density and effective-mass enhancement to be 1.2 × 10²⁷
carriers/m³ and 18.7m_(e), respectively. The enhanced effective mass
m^(*) and the reduced superconducting carrier n_(s), together with the
dimer spin gap transition reported previously,[8] could make Mo₃Sb₇ to
be an unique candidate of the bridge between two classes of the
multiple-transition superconductors: HTc (m^(*) ∼ 3m_(e) and
n_(s) ∼ 1×10²⁸ carriers/m³) and heavy-fermion (m^(*) ∼ 100m_(e) and
n_(s) ∼ 1 × 10²⁶ carriers/m³) superconductors.

The authors are grateful to the ISIS facility for providing beam time.
One of us (V.H.T.) acknowledges the financial support of the Ministry of
Science and Higher Education in Poland under Grant No. N202 082 31/0449.

## References

* [1] Z. Bukowski, D. Badurski, J. Stepien-Damm, and R. Troc, Solid
State Commun. **123**, 283 (2002). * [2] V. M. Dmitriev, L. F.
Rybaltchenko, E. V. Khristenko, L. A. Ishchenko, Z. Bukowski, and R.
Troc, Fiz. Nizk. Temp. **33**, 399 (2007). * [3] C. Candolfi, B. Lenoir,
A. Dauscher, C. Bellouard, J. Hejtmanek, E. Santava, and J. Tobola,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **99**, 037006 (2007). * [4] V. H. Tran, W. Miller, and
Z. Bukowski, Acta Mater. **56**, 5694 (2008). * [5] Ch. Niedermayer, C.
Bernhard, T. Holden, R. K. Kremer, and K. Ahn, Phys. Rev. B **65**,
094512 (2002). * [6] R. Khasanov, A. Shengelaya, A. Maisuradze, F. La
Mattina, A. Bussmann-Holder, H. Keller, and K. A. Muller, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **98**, 057007 (2007). * [7] S. Kuroiwa, Y. Saura, J. Akimitsu, M.
Hiraishi, M. Miyazaki, K. H. Satoh, S. Takeshita, and R. Kadono, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **100**, 097002 (2008). * [8] V. H. Tran, W. Miiller, and Z.
Bukowski, Phys. Rev. Lett. **100**, 137004 (2008). * [9] V. H. Tran and
Z. Bukowski, Acta Phys. Pol. A **114**, 73 (2008). * [10] T. Blasius,
Ch. Niedermayer, J. L. Tallon, D. M. Pooke, A. Golnik, and C. Bernhard,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **82**, 4926 (1999). * [11] P. D. de Gennes,
_Superconductivity of Metals and Alloys_ (Benjamin, New York, 1966). *
[12] M. R. Schafroth, Phys. Rev. **100**, 463 (1955). * [13] A.
Carrington and F. Manzano, Physica C **385**, 205 (2003). * [14] Y.
Wang, T. Plackowski, and A. Junod, Physica C **355**, 179 (2001). * [15]
F. Bouquet, Y. Wang, R. A. Fisher, D. G. Hinks, J. D. Jorgensen, A.
Junod, and N. E. Phillips, Europhys. Lett. **56**, 856 (2001); F.
Bouquet, R. A. Fisher, N. E. Phillips, D. G. Hinks, and J. D. Jorgensen,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **87**, 047001 (2001). * [16] E. H. Brandt, Phys. Rev.
B **37**, 2349 (1988). * [17] D. T. Adroja, A. D. Hillier, J. G. Park,
E. A. Goremychkin, K. A. McEwen, N. Takeda, R. Osborn, B. D. Rainford,
and R. M. Ibberson, Phys. Rev. B **72**, 184503 (2005). * [18] J. E.
Sonier, Rep. Prog. Phys. **70**, 1717 (2007).
