# Suppression of superconductivity in UPt₃ single crystals

J. B. Kycia

Department of Physics and Astronomy, Northwestern University, Evanston,
Illinois 60208

J. I. Hong

Department of Materials Science and Engineering, Northwestern
University, Evanston, Illinois 60208

M. J. Graf* and J. A. Sauls

Department of Physics and Astronomy, Northwestern University, Evanston,
Illinois 60208

D. N. Seidman

Department of Materials Science and Engineering, Northwestern
University, Evanston, Illinois 60208

W. P. Halperin

Department of Physics and Astronomy, Northwestern University, Evanston,
Illinois 60208

24 March 1998

###### Abstract

High-quality single crystals of UPt₃ have been prepared by vertical
float-zone refining in ultrahigh vacuum. We find that the
superconducting transition temperature can be varied systematically by
annealing, revealing that the transition temperature intrinsic to UPt₃
is 563±5 mK. The suppression of the superconducting transition from
defects is consistent with a modified Abrikosov-Gor’kov formula that
includes anisotropic pairing, Fermi-surface anisotropy, and anisotropic
scattering by defects. [S0163-1829(98)50426-2]

Since discovery of unconventional pairing in superfluid ³He there has
been considerable interest in the existence of similar states in
superconductors. Particular attention has been directed toward the
cuprates,[1] some organic superconductors,[2] and heavy fermion
compounds.[3] These strongly correlated fermion superconductors have
common features, one of which is their sensitivity to elastic scattering
from defects and impurities that depends on the pairing symmetry. In
this paper we focus attention on one of the most intensively studied
heavy fermion superconductors, UPt₃, where we have developed a technique
to systematically control the degree of elastic scattering.

In early transport experiments there were indications of unconventional
superconducting behavior from power-law temperature dependences of the
attenuation of sound.[4, 5] Acoustic experiments[6, 7] also showed
evidence for multiple superconducting phases in a magnetic field. The
observation[8] of a second superconducting transition in zero-field heat
capacity of UPt₃ led to a number of studies of these phases and their
boundaries.[9, 10, 11] UPt₃ has a rich phase diagram in the
field-temperature plane with at least three distinct phases at fields
below the upper critical field. The existence of these phases is strong
evidence for a multicomponent order parameter.

Theoretical models based on several different symmetry classes have been
proposed for the multicomponent order parameter.[12, 3] Experimental and
theoretical work on both the phase diagram and transport properties has
narrowed the number of viable models, but currently the precise symmetry
class for the pairing state of UPt₃ is not settled. Because the
signatures of the symmetry of the pairing state are particularly
sensitive to material quality, one of the key experimental challenges is
the preparation and characterization of high-purity single crystals with
which to test various predictions. Theoretical work on the thermodynamic
and transport properties of unconventional superconductors shows that a
powerful way of testing different candidate pairing states is to study
the effects of impurity scattering on physical properties of the
superconducting state.[13] For example, it has been shown that the
limiting values for the components of the thermal conductivity tensor,
e.g., lim_(τ → 0)κ_(s, c)/T, are sensitive to impurities in very
different ways depending on the orbital symmetry of the pairing
state.[14]

It is well known that for s-wave pairing in isotropic superconductors,
scattering by nonmagnetic impurities has no effect on T_(c).[15, 16]
However, the transition temperature for unconventional superconductors
is particularly sensitive to scattering by nonmagnetic impurities or
defects.[17] One observation of this effect was by Stewart _et al._[18]
In recent work on polycrystalline samples, Dalichaouch _et al._[19]
substituted a variety of elements for uranium in UPt₃ and demonstrated
the suppression of T_(c) with residual resistivity. These authors argue
that the rare-earth impurities produce magnetic and nonmagnetic
scattering, and that their results are consistent with the behavior
expected for unconventional superconductors. In earlier impurity
studies, Vorenkamp _et al._[20] substituted Th and Y for U, and obtained
qualitatively similar results. Ideally the study of the suppression of
T_(c) should be performed on single crystals. Grain boundaries and the
anisotropy of UPt₃, and possibly the anisotropy of scattering processes,
complicate the interpretation of the experimental results in
polycrystalline samples.

We report a study of the effects of impurity scattering on the
suppression of superconductivity in single crystals of UPt₃. As a test
for unconventional pairing it is important to measure the suppression of
superconductivity attributable to nonmagnetic scattering. We have found
a means to systematically control defect concentrations, and we have
determined their influence on elastic scattering and suppression of
superconductivity in single crystals.

The crystals we prepared have sufficient purity and perfection that we
can reliably extrapolate to the clean limit and obtain the intrinsic
superconducting transition temperature of UPt₃, 563±5 mK. From our
measurements (see below) we conclude that the defects are not chemical
impurities. The observed suppression of the transition temperature with
increased elastic scattering from these defects is further evidence for
unconventional pairing in this compound.

The crystals were prepared in a vertical float-zone refining system that
operates with electron-beam heating in ultrahigh vacuum (10⁻¹⁰
torr).[21] Annealing was performed at different temperatures in a
furnace, also operating in ultrahigh vacuum, where the sample was placed
on a UPt₃ holder and heated by an electron gun for six days followed by
slow cooling over a four day period. Characterization by x-ray rocking
curves and chemical analysis based on mass spectrometry were
performed.[21] The total impurity concentration was determined to be 10
parts per million by weight (23 ppm atomic concentration) and the
concentrations of conventional magnetic impurities (Fe, Cr, Co, Mn, Ni)
are less than 0.03 ppm by weight.

The resistivity, susceptibility, and specific heat were measured to
temperatures well below the superconducting transition. For all samples
studied the specific heat exhibited a well defined double peak.[21] The
x-ray rocking curve of the [002] reflection, for a sample annealed at
1250 ^(∘)C had a full width at half maximum (FWHM) of 63± 5 arcseconds
compared to the theoretical minimum FWHM calculated to be 60 arcseconds
according to the Darwin-Prins model.[22] This is evidence for very high
crystal quality. The samples which we report on here were obtained from
three zone-refining runs, which produced large single crystals (∼20 g).
Recent-angular, needle-shaped specimens, typically ∼5 × 0.5 × 0.5 mm³,
were cut by electron discharge machining. The transition temperature was
determined by an ac four-probe technique with excitation <30 μA, to
avoid self-heating.[21]

In Fig. 1 we show the behavior of the residual electrical resistivity
ratio (RRR), extrapolated to zero temperature, for different annealing
temperatures. Note that each point represents a separate sample. The RRR
is expressed as a ratio relative to the room temperature resistance. The
resistivity of UPt₃ is anisotropic and so we have used the values
ρ_(0d)/ρ_(0c)= 3.5 at T = 0, from Fig. 4, and ρ_(a)/ρ_(c)= 1.80 at room
temperature,[23] to express the measurements for a-axis orientations in
terms of the resistivity for the c-axis orientation, defined here as
RRR_(c). The general trend of increasing RRR with decreasing annealing
temperature is evident. The difficulty in establishing and measuring the
annealing conditions, including the cooling schedule, likely gives rise
to the spread in the data in Fig. 1 for low annealing temperatures.
Nonetheless, a clear trend is apparent and the best quality crystals
have RRR_(c) of order 1500, in comparison with bulk crystals reported in
the literature, RRR_(c)<750.[24, 25, 26] From previous work we estimate
that contributions to the c-axis resistivity from chemical impurities
are less than 14μA▫/at.[19] We use our impurity concentration values to
establish (quite conservatively) that they would limit the RRR_(c) to be
above 4000, giving a negligible contribution to the measured residual
resistivities of our crystals. Using transmission electron microscopy we
find planar defects lying in the basal planes with the defect density
being higher for the higher resistivity samples.[27] The measured
density of planar defects is consistent with the measured residual
resistivities. Thus, we conclude that the residual resistivity has a
significant contribution from these structural defects.

In Fig. 2 we show the resistive transitions of two crystals. The inset
shows one of the narrowest resistive transitions measured to date,
ΔT_(c)= 1.3 mK, determined as the interval between 10

The anisotropic resistivity has two components at low temperatures (Fig.
2),

ρ_(i)(T) = ρ_(0i) + A_(i)T².
(1)

The index, i = (a, c), identifies the direction of the current relative
to the hexagonal unit cell. The temperature independent term, ρ_(0v),
results from elastic scattering of quasiparticles from defects and
impurities, and the T² term is due to inelastic scattering, which we
assume is a result of quasiparticle-quasiparticle collisions. The
coefficient A_(i) is then inversely proportional to the average squared
Fermi velocity projected along the direction i. As a consequence of the
large effective masses, the A_(i) coefficients in heavy fermions are
much larger than in conventional metals. The results of our measurements
of the anisotropy of the elastic scattering coefficient are presented in
Fig. 3. Note that the inelastic coefficients are independent of the
residual resistiv

Figure 2: Resistivity for a sample annealed at 900 ^(∘)C and measured
with J||c. Inset: Superconducting transition for a sample annealed at
800 ^(∘)C with J||a having a transition width of 1.3 mK.

Figure 1: RRR_(c) from all the crystals. The measured residual
resistivity ratio for current, J, in the c-axis direction, J||c; along
with the equivalent values of RRR_(c) inferred from the J||a data.

ity, as expected for quasiparticle-quasiparticle scattering with low
concentrations of defects and impurities.

If the inelastic scattering probability is isotropic, the anisotropy in
the angular average of the Fermi velocity can be determined from the
A_(i) coefficients,

$$\frac{A_{a}}{A_{c}}=\frac{\langle v_{f,c}^{2}(\bm{p}_{f})\rangle}{\langle v_{fs} ^{2}(\bm{p}_{f})\rangle}=2.69\pm 0.03.$$
(2)

The elastic scattering rate can be inferred from the residual
resistivities, ρ_(0i) , and the Drude result,

$$\rho_{0i}^{-1}=\frac{3}{\pi^{2}}\bigg{[}\frac{e}{k_{B}}\bigg{]}^{2}\gamma_{S} \langle v_{f,i}^{2}(\bm{p}_{f})\tau(\bm{p}_{f})\rangle,$$
(3)

where τ(p_(f)) is the transport time for quasiparticles scattering into
the direction p_(f) on the Fermi surface, and γ_(S) =
$\frac{1}{2}\pi^{2}k_{B}^{2}N_{f}$ is the Sommerfeld coefficient for the
linear term in the electronic specific heat. Thus, the anisotropy in the
residual resistivity, ρ_(0i)/ρ_(0c) , is determined by the anisotropy in
the Fermi velocities and the elastic scattering time. We define
effective scattering times for a-axis and c-axis transport by
τ_(i) = ⟨v_(f, i)²(p_(f))τ(p_(f))⟩/⟨v_(fs)²(p_(f))⟩. For isotropic
scattering times the ratio of residual resistivities for a-axis and
c-axis measurements is inversely proportional to the ratio of
Fermi-surface averages of the ab-plane and c-axis Fermi velocities.
However, the Fermi velocity anisotropies above cannot account for the
anisotropy of ρ_(0i) . From our measurements of the suppression of T_(c)
as a function of residual resistivity we infer that the elastic
scattering rate is anisotropic in UPt₃, i.e.,

$$\frac{\tau_{c}}{\tau_{a}}=\frac{\rho_{0i}A_{c}}{\rho_{0c}A_{a}}=1.3\pm 0.1.$$
(4)

The ratio ρ_(0a)/ρ_(0c) = 3.5 ± 0.3 used in Eq. (4) is obtained from the
slopes of the T_(c) suppression for a-axis and c-axis currents in Fig.
4. Extrapolation to zero resistivity gives T_(c0) =563 ± 5 mK, where the
accuracy is determined by absolute thermometry.

The basis for this analysis follows from a generalization of the
Abrikosov-Gor’kov formula for the pair-breaking suppression of T_(c) to
include anisotropic scattering in unconventional superconductors. The
suppression of T_(c) by a homogeneous distribution of isotropic,
nonmagnetic impurities has been calculated for unconventional
superconductors,[17] and is given by a formula similar to the
Abrikosov-Gor’kov formula for pair breaking in conventional
superconductors by magnetic impurities, i.e.,
ln (T_(c0)/T_(c))=$\Psi[\frac{1}{2}+(\hbar/2\pi\pi k_{B}T_{c})]$$-\,\Psi(\frac{1}{2})$,
where 1/τ is the isotropic impurity scattering rate, T_(c) is the
superconducting transition temperature, T_(c0) is the transition
temperature of the perfect, clean material, and Ψ is the digamma
function. This equation, combined with the Drude formula, relates the
suppression of T_(c) to the residual resistivity, ρ₀. We extend this
result to include anisotropic scattering in superconductors with an
unconventional order parameter and an anisotropic Fermi surface. The
simplest model that can account for the observed uniaxial anisotropy of
the resistivity is a two parameter model (s-wave and p-wave) for the
scattering rate of a quasiparticle with Fermi momentum p_(f) scattering
off anisotropic impurities or defects,

1/τ(p_(f)) = 1/τ₀ − 3 p̂_(f, f)²/τ₁,
(5)

where p̂_(f) is the direction of the Fermi momentum and 1/τ₀⇒3/τ₁
guarantees 1/τ(p_(f))⇒ 0. This model is applicable to anisotropic
scattering by a nearly homogeneous distribution of structural
defects.[28] The suppression of T_(c) also depends on the anisotropy of
the pairing state. We restrict the analysis to the pairing states that
can explain both the H-T phase diagram,[31] and the anisotropic thermal
conductivity.[14] This restriction allows only the order parameters
belonging to the E_(1g) or E_(2a) pairing symmetries, which are the
leading candidates for the superconducting phases of UPt₃.[5, 12] The
ground-state basis functions for these two models are
η_(E₂)^(±)(p_(f))=p̂_(f, c)(p̂_(f±) ± p̂_(f′))² and
η_(E₂)^(±)(p_(f))=p̂_(f, c)(p̂_(f′) ± p̂_(f′)). The calculation of the
suppression of T_(c) ,[17] including anisotropic scattering and
anisotropic pairing, gives

$$\ln\!\!\frac{T_{c}}{T_{c0}}\!=\!\Psi\bigg{(}\frac{1}{2}\bigg{)}-\mathcal{Q}^{- 1}\bigg{\langle}\,|\,\eta(\bm{p}_{f})|^{2}\Psi\bigg{(}\frac{1}{2}+\frac{1}{2} \alpha(\bm{p}_{f})\bigg{)}\bigg{\rangle},$$
(6)

where α(p_(f))=ℏ/[ 2πk_(B)T_(c)τ(p_(f))] and 𝒬=⟨ |η(p_(f))|²⟩. For weak
scattering Eq. (6) reduces to

$$\frac{T_{c}}{T_{c0}}\!\approx\!1-\frac{\pi^{2}}{4}\mathcal{Q}^{-1}\langle\,|\, \eta(\bm{p}_{f})|^{2}\alpha(\bm{p}_{f})\rangle.$$
(7)

Evaluating the Fermi-surface averages for the s-p model gives[29]

Figure 3: Inelastic scattering coefficients for both orientations as a
function of ρ₀ .

Figure 4: T_(c) suppression in UPt₃ vs the residual resistivity for both
orientations. The solid and dashed lines are theoretical fits for an
E_(1g) or E_(2a) order parameter (see below).

R606

$$\frac{T_{c}}{T_{c0}}\!\simeq\!1\!-\frac{\pi^{2}}{4}\,q\,\alpha_{0}\,,\ \ \ \ \alpha_{0}\!=\!\frac{\hbar}{2\,\pi\!k_{B}T_{c0}\tau_{0}},$$
(8)

where q = 1 − 1/3r for the E_(2u) model and q = 1 − 3/7r for the E_(1g)
model. The anisotropy ratio is defined by  
