Pressure-induced superconductivity in the layered pnictogen diselenide
NdO_(0.8)F_(0.2)Sb_(1 − x)Bi_(x)Se₂ (x = 0.3 and 0.7)

Ryo Matsumoto

Yosuke Goto

y_goto@tmu.ac.jp National Institute of Materials Science, 1-2-1 Sengen,
Tsukuba, Ibaraki 305-0047, Japan

Sayaka Yamamoto

National Institute of Technology, Yonago College, 4448 Hikona, Yonago,
Tottori 683-8502, Japan Department of Physics, Tokyo Metropolitan
University, 1-1 Minami-osawa, Hachioji, Tokyo 192-0397, Japan

Kenta Sudo

y_goto@tmu.ac.jp Department of Physics and Materials Science, Shimane
University, Matsue, 690-8504, Japan

Hidetomo Usui

Department of Physics, Hokkaido University, Kita 13, Nishi 8 Sapporo
060-8628, Japan

Akira Miura

Faculty of Engineering, Hokkaido University, Kita 13, Nishi 8 Sapporo
060-8628, Japan

Chikako Moriyoshi

Department of Physical Science, Hiroshima University, 1-3-1 Kagamiyama,
Higashihiroshima, Hiroshima 739-8526, Japan

Yoshihiro Kuroiwa

Yoshikazu Mizuguchi

National Institute of Materials Science, 1-2-1 Sengen, Tsukuba, Ibaraki
305-0047, Japan

Yoshihiko Takano

National Institute of Materials Science, 1-2-1 Sengen, Tsukuba, Ibaraki
305-0047, Japan Department of Physics, Tokyo Metropolitan University,
1-1 Minami-osawa, Hachioji, Tokyo 192-0397, Japan

Kazuhiko Kuroiwa

Yoshikazu Mizuguchi

National Institute of Materials Science, 1-2-1 Sengen, Tsukuba, Ibaraki
305-0047, Japan

Yoshihiko Takano

National Institute of Materials Science, 1-2-1 Sengen, Tsukuba, Ibaraki
305-0047, Japan Department of Physics, Osaka University, Toyonaka, Osaka
560-0043, Japan

###### Abstract

Polycrystalline samples of layered pnictogen (Pn) diselenide
NdO_(0.8)F_(0.2)Sb_(1 − x)Bi_(x)Se₂ (x = 0 to 0.8) were successfully
synthesized by solid-state reactions. Electrical resistivity in the
synthesized samples systematically decreases with an increase in Bi
content x, accompanied by an insulator to metal-like transition at x =
0.5−0.6. Crystal structure analysis using synchrotron x-ray diffraction
suggests that this transition correlates with anomalous change in
_c_-axis length and/or distortion in Pn−Se conducting plane. Emergence
of pressure-induced superconductivity was investigated using a diamond
anvil cell with boron-doped diamond electrodes, employing x = 0.3 and
0.7 as the representative samples. For the Sb-rich one (_x_ = 0.3), we
observed a signature of superconducting transition with T_(c)^(onset) =
5.15 ± 0.05 K at 50 GPa. The T_(c)^(onset) of x = 0.3 increased with
increasing pressure and reached 7.65 ± 0.05 K at 70.8 GPa, followed by
the gradual decrease in T_(c) up to 90 GPa. For the Bi-rich one (_x_ =
0.7), a superconducting transition with T_(c)^(onset) = 5.5 ± 0.6 K was
induced at 43.5 GPa, which is almost comparable to that of x = 0.3;
besides, upper critical field (_H_1/2) is evaluated to be  10 T for x =
0.7, which is higher than that of x = 0.3 (_H_1/2 = 6.7 T at 50 GPa).

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.100.094528

## I Introduction

Since the discovery of the BiCh₂-based (Ch: S, Se) layered
superconductors in 2012, such as Bi₄O₄S₃ and _R_(O, F)BiS₂ (_R_:
rare-earth element), this family of compounds has received much
attention as a class of layered superconductors [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7,
8]. The crystal structure is composed of alternate stacks of
electrically conducting BiCh₂ layers and insulating (blocking) carrier
reservoir layers, as schematically depicted in Fig. 1. Several types of
BiCh₂-based superconductors have been reported, and the highest-record
T_(c) of 11 K was obtained for LaO_(0.5)F_(0.5)BiS₂ using high-pressure
technique [3, 9]. In the early stages of research on a paring mechanism
of BiCh₂-based compounds, it was suggested that the conventional
superconductivity with a fully gapped _s_-wave state is realized, on the
basis of the first-principles calculation [10], Raman scattering [11],
muon-spin spectroscopy [12], and thermal conductivity [13] experiments.
However, recent first-principles calculations [14], angle-resolved
photoemission spectroscopy [15], and the Se isotope effect [16] proposed
the possibility of unconventional pairing mechanisms in BiCh₂-based
superconductors.

Generally speaking, the parent phase of BiCh₂-based compounds is band
gap insulators. These compounds show superconductivity when electron
carriers are generated at the conduction bands. Because the conduction
bands are mainly composed of hybridization between Bi 6p and Ch p
orbitals [17, 18], it is quite reasonable to expect that the
understanding of the isovalent doping effects of Sb for Bi is
essentially important to elucidate the superconducting mechanisms and
the underlying physics in this family of compounds. In addition,
Sb-doped BiCh₂-based compounds, namely SbCh₂-based compounds, are also
attractive from the viewpoint of the thermoelectric and topological
materials [19, 20, 21]. However, most of SbCh₂-based compounds have been
insulators so far, in spite of attempts to dope electron carriers [22,
23, 24, 25, 26]. Although the origin of insulating nature in SbCh₂-based
compounds has not yet been fully understood, it is probably due to
insufficient orbital overlapping between Sb 5p and Ch p orbitals [27].
This scenario is supported by the observation of insulator to metal
transition for Ce(O, F)SbS₂ under high pressure, which promotes orbital
overlapping [25].

Recently, we have reported the effects of Bi doping on high-temperature
thermoelectric transport properties of SbSe₂-based layered compounds
NdO_(0.8)F_(0.25)Sb_(1 − x)Bi_(x)Se₂ (x ≤ 0.4) [26]. Room temperature
electrical resistivity was decreased down from 300 mΩ cm for x = 0 to 8
mΩcm for x = 0.4. However, the temperature dependence of electrical
resistivity was still insulating for x ≤ 0.4, despite that the F-doping
content is 20

## II Method

### Sample preparation

Polycrystalline samples of NdO_(0.8)F_(0.2)Sb_(1 − x)Bi_(x)Se₂ (x = 0,
0.1, 0.2, 0.3, 0.4, 0.5, 0.6, 0.7, 0.8) were prepared by solid-state
reactions using dehydrated NdO₃, NdSe, NdSe₂, Sb (99.9

### Characterization

The chemical compositions of the obtained samples were examined using an
energy dispersive x-ray spectrometer (EDX; Oxford, SwiftED3000). The
phase purity and crystal structure of the samples were examined by
synchrotron powder x-ray diffraction (SPXRD) performed at the BL02B2
beamline of SPring-8 (proposal numbers 2018A0074 and 2018B1246). The
measurements were performed at 297 K. The diffraction data were
collected using a high-resolution one-dimensional semiconductor detector
(multiple MYTHEN system) [28]. The wavelength of the radiation beam was
determined to be 0.495274(1) A (proposal number 2018A0074) and
0.496345(1) A (No. 2018B1246) using a CeO₂ standard. The crystal
structure parameters were refined by the Rietveld method using RIETAN-FP
software [29]. The crystal structure was visualized using vesta software
[30].

### Transport measurement

Electrical resistivity at ambient pressure was measured using the
four-probe method on a GM refrigerator system. Measurements of
electrical resistance under high pressure were performed on
polycrystalline powder using an originally designed DAC with boron-doped
diamond electrodes [25, 31, 32] on the bottom anvil of
nanopolycrystalline diamond [33], as shown in Fig. 2. The sample was
placed on the boron-doped diamond electrodes in the center of the bottom
anvil. The surface of the bottom anvil, except for the sample space and
electrical terminal, were covered by the undoped diamond insulating
layer. The cubic boron nitride powders with ruby manometer were used as
a pressure-transmitting medium. The applied pressure (P) was estimated
by the fluorescence from ruby powders [34] and the Raman spectrum from
the culet of top diamond anvil [35] by an inVia Raman Microscope
(RENISHAW). The resistance was measured by a standard four-probe method
on a Physical Property Measurement System (Quantum Design: PPMS).

Figure 1: Crystal structure of NdO_(0.8)F_(0.2)Sb_(1 − x)Bi_(x)Se₂
(x = 0.3), which belongs to the tetragonal P4/mm space group. The black
line denotes the unit cell. Se ions have two crystallographic sites:
in-plane (Se1) and out-of-plane (Se2). Pnictogen (Sb and Bi) is denoted
as Pn.

Figure 2: Optical image of the sample space of DAC with boron-doped
diamond electrodes.

### First-principles calculation

Density functional theory calculations were performed using vasp
software [36, 37, 38, 39]. This code implements the projector-augmented
wave method [40]. The electronic structures were self-consistently
calculated within the generalized gradient approximation proposed by
Perdew, Burke, and Ernzerhof [41]. Here, we set a 15 × 15 × 5k mesh and
cutoff energy of 550 eV with the inclusion of spin-orbit coupling. The
virtual crystal approximation was used to take into account the effect
of partial substitution of F for O and Bi for Sb, respectively. For the
calculations, we adopted the experimentally determined crystal
structures described in Table S1 in the Supplemental Material [42].

## III Results and discussion

### Crystal structure and chemical composition

Figure 3 shows the SPXRD pattern and Rietveld fitting results for
x = 0.7 as a representative data. Almost all the diffraction peaks can
be assigned to those of the tetragonal P4/mmm space group, indicating
that the obtained sample is mainly composed of
NdO_(0.8)F_(0.2)Sb_(1 − x)Bi_(x)Se₂-type phase. However, several peaks
attributable to impurity phases, Nd₂O₂Se (4.1 wt

Figure 4(b) depicts the calculated lattice parameters. The lattice
parameter a increased almost linearly with increasing x owing to the
larger ionic radius of Bi ions than that of Sb ions (Shannon’s
five-coordinate ionic radius, r_(Bi)³⁺ = 96 pm and r_(Sb)³⁺ = 80 pm)
[43]. On the other hand, the c exhibits anomalous change at around
x = 0.5 − 0.6. Namely, the c-axis length exhibits longer value than that
expected from linear trend. Although the origin of this deviation from
linear relationship between c and x is not yet clear, it seems to be
correlated to electrical carrier transport of the present samples, as
described below. Note that c-axis length tends to correlate with amount
of electron doping in the BiCh₂-based systems [2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8].

Figure 4: (a) The x dependences of chemical composition ratios of Nd,
Sb, Bi, and Se determined using EDX. Dashed lines represent the nominal
composition of the starting materials. (b) Calculated lattice parameters
from the Rietveld refinement. The error bars are less than the size of
the symbols.

Figure 3: SPXRD pattern and Rietveld fitting results for x = 0.7 as a
representative data of NdO_(0.8)F_(0.2)Sb_(1 − x)Bi_(x)Se₂. The
measurement was performed at 297 K. The wavelength of the radiation beam
was determined to be 0.496345(1) Å. The circles and solid curve
represent the observed and calculated patterns, respectively, and the
difference between the two is shown at the bottom. The vertical marks
indicate the Bragg diffraction positions for
NdO_(0.8)F_(0.2)Sb_(0.3)Bi_(0.3)Se₂, Nd₂O₂Se, NdOF, and Sb₂Se₃, from top
to bottom, respectively. SPXRD patterns of other samples are shown in
the Supplemental Material [42].

Figures 5(a)-5(d) show selected bond distances and angle. Bond distances
for in-plane Bi/Sb (Pn)-Se1 and Pn-Se2 increased almost linearly with
increasing x, consistent with an increase in lattice parameters. On the
other hand, the interplane Pn-Se1 distance is in 3.43 ± 0.03 A for all
of examined samples. As a result, Se1-Pn-Se1 bond angle tends to
decrease with increasing x. This indicates that Pn−Se1 plane is
distorted by Bi doping. The Se1-Pn-Se1 bond angle can be classified into
two groups, namely, Se1-Pn-Se1 bond angle of ∼171^(∘) for Sb-rich
composition (x ≤ 0.3), and of ∼169^(∘) for Bi-rich composition
(x ≥ 0.6). As shown below, the temperature dependence of electrical
resistivity near room temperature turns from insulating to metallic
behavior at the intermediate region, x = 0.5−0.6. It should be noted
that the distortion of Pn−Se1 plane by applying chemical pressure is
similar to the case of LaO_(0.5)F_(0.5)Bi(S, Se)₂[27].

### Transport properties under ambient pressure

Figure 6(a) shows the temperature dependence of electrical resistivity
measured under ambient pressure. For x = 0, electrical resistivity
increased with decreasing temperature, leading to ∼10⁵Ω cm at 2 K. As
shown in Fig. 6(b), room temperature electrical resistivity tends to
decrease with increasing x, in spite of isovalent doping of Bi for Sb.
This is most likely due to increased overlapping between Sb/Bi p and Se
p orbitals, so-called in-plane chemical pressure effects, as established
in BiCh₂-based compounds [27]. As shown in Fig. 6(c), temperature
dependence of electrical resistivity turns from insulating to
metallic-like behavior at x = 0.5−0.6, in which anomalous change of
c-axis length and Se1-Pn-Se1 bond angle is observed [see Figs. 4(b) and
5(d)]. Notably, weakly localized (insulating) behavior is still observed
at low temperature for all samples. For example, electrical resistivity
increases with decreasing temperature below 20 K for x = 0.8. We note
that transport measurements were performed on polycrystalline samples in
this study. Usually, the transport properties of the polycrystalline
sample have some uncertainty due to the presence of, e.g., the impurity
phase, grain boundary, and anisotropy. Our samples have a purity of
approximately >94

Figure 5: Selected bond distances and angle for
NdO_(0.8)F_(0.2)Sb_(1 − x)Bi_(x)Se₂: (a) in-plane Pn-Se1 distance, (b)
Pn-Se2 distance, (c) interplane Pn-Se1 distance, and (d) Se1-Pn-Se1
angle. The error bars determined using statistical errors of the
Rietveld refinement are less than the size of the symbols.

it is reasonable to expect that the effects on electrical resistivity is
temperature independent. At the same time, it seems to be reasonable
that anisotropy is almost unchanged by doping, because the present
samples are isostructural compounds. Therefore, it is safely concluded
that the transition from insulator to metals/superconductor is an
intrinsic property of NdO_(0.8)F_(0.2)Sb_(1 − x)Bi_(x)Se₂, despite the
polycrystalline nature of the samples.

### Transport properties under high pressure

To investigate the electrical transport under high pressure, we employed
x = 0.3 and 0.7 as the representatives of Sb-rich and Bi-rich
composition, respectively. It should be noted that x = 0.8 is ruled out
for high pressure measurements because of the existence of a
non-negligible amount of Bi₂Se₃ secondary phase (12.9 wt

Figure 7 shows the temperature dependences of electrical resistance for
x = 0.3 under various pressures (a) from 12.2 to 50 GPa, and (b) from 50
to 90 GPa. It is difficult to measure P = 0 data because the contact
between the sample and electrodes are kept by a pressure welding. The
resistance decreases with increasing pressure. Although the data under
23.7, 29.1, and 36.4 GPa were noisy probably due to a high contact
resistance at the low temperature region, the contact was improved by an
increase of the pressure. A sudden drop of resistance was observed at
5.15 ± 0.05 K at 50 GPa, corresponding to an indication of a
superconducting transition. The criterion for T_(c) is described below.
At 57.2 GPa, the resistance at 10 K decreases about four orders in
magnitude as compared to that at 12.2 GPa, showing the insulator to
metal transition at this pressure. The broadening features of the
resistance curve below 50 K at 57.2 and 64.1 GPa were observed. Although
the reason for this broad feature is still unclear, it could not be
attributed to superconductivity because the normal resistance above 7-8
K was independent of the applied magnetic field, as later shown in Fig.
8. The resistance continued to decrease up to 90 GPa, and then, the
diamond anvil was broken. It should be noted that zero resistivity was
not observed at low temperature, most likely due to inhomogeneity of
applied pressure for polycrystalline sample, which is generally occurred
with DAC systems [46].

Figure 7(c) shows resistance below 10 K for x = 0.3 under various
pressures from 50 to 90 GPa. In the present study, we evaluated T_(c) as
follows: (1) T_(c) upper was determined from a branch point on the
differential curve under 0 and 7 T (or sufficiently high magnetic
fields), as shown in Fig. S3(a). (2) T_(c) lower was determined from an
intersection point between the strait line of the normal resistance
region and the extended line from resistance after superconducting
transition under 0 and 7 T (or sufficiently high magnetic fields, see
Fig. S3(b)). (3 T_(c) outer was determined from the average value of
T_(c) upper and T_(c) lower. (4) These three kinds of T_(c) value were
used for the error bars. We first observed the superconducting
transition with T_(c)^(onset) = 5.15 ± 0.05 K under 50 GPa. The
T_(c)^(onset) was enhanced with an increase of applied pressure up to
70.8 GPa, reaching the maximum T_(c)^(onset) of 7.65 ± 0.05 K. Under
further compression, the T_(c)^(onset) was gradually decreased.

To confirm that the observed drop of resistance originates from the
superconductivity, we measured the resistance under magnetic fields.
Figure 8 shows temperature dependences of resistance for x = 0.3 in
magnetic fields under representative pressures of (a) 50 GPa, (b) 70.8
GPa, and (c) 90 GPa. The drops of resistance are gradually suppressed by
an increase of applied magnetic field, indicating the drops of
resistance come from the superconductivity. The insets show the
temperature dependences of upper critical field H_(c2) estimated from
the Werthamer-Helfand-Hohenberg (WHH) approximation for type II
superconductors in a dirty limit [47]. The H_(c2)(0) was evaluated to be
6.7, 5.6, and 4.6 T at 50, 70.8, and 90 GPa, respectively, which are
comparable to that of BiCh₂-based superconductors.

Figure 9(a) shows temperature dependences of resistance in Bi-rich
sample, x = 0.7, under pressures from 0.6 to 52 GPa. An insulating
behavior was observed up to 36.5 GPa, while resistivity of this
composition measured at ambient

Figure 6: (a) Temperature (T) dependence of logarithmic resistivity (ρ)
in NdO_(0.8)F_(0.2)Sb_(1 − x)Bi_(x)Se₂ (x = 0 − 0.8) measured at ambient
pressure. (b) ρ vs. T at room temperature. (c) Normalized ρ_vs._T for
x = 0.4 − 0.8. The inset shows expanded view above 180 K.

pressure shows metallic behavior at temperatures between 100 and 300 K
[see Fig. 6(c)]. This is probably due to weak coupling at grain
boundary, because the measurements under high pressure are performed on
polycrystalline powder samples. We can see the hump-like broad anomaly
around 200 K between 0.6 and 36.5 GPa. This anomaly is suppressed by
increasing pressure up to 43.5 GPa, where the resistance drop
corresponding to the superconducting transition was observed at 5.5 ±
0.6 K. This is quite similar to the case of pressure-induced
superconductivity in EuFiBiS₂[48], although the origin of the anomaly
around 200 K is still unclear. For x = 0.7, the critical parameters to
induce superconductivity (T_(c) and P_(c)) are almost comparable to
those of x = 0.3. Figures 9(b) and 9(c) show the temperature dependences
of resistance in x = 0.7 under magnetic fields at (b) 43.5 GPa and (c)
52.0 GPa. Again, suppression of drops in resistance by applying magnetic
field indicate that this corresponds to a superconducting transition.
The H_(c2)(0) of x = 0.7 was evaluated to be 10.9 and 9.4 T at 43.5 and
52.0 GPa, respectively. These are distinctly higher than that of
x = 0.3.

Figures 10(a) and 10(b) show pressure-phase diagrams for T_(c)^(onset)
and resistances at 200 and 10 K for x = 0.3 and 0.7. In spite of
different Sb/Bi substitutional ratio, both compositions seem to exhibit
quite similar responses against the applied pressures. Namely, critical
pressure to induce superconductivity is as high as ∼45 GPa for both the
Sb rich (x = 0.3) and Bi rich (x = 0.7) composition. This seems to
contradict our simple expectation that superconductivity is more easily
induced under high pressure in the Bi-rich sample, because of its
metallic-like nature at ambient pressure. On the other hand, H_(c2) is
distinctly different in these samples, H_(c2) = 6.7 T for x = 0.3 at 50
GPa and H_(c2) = 10.9 T for x = 0.7 at 43.5 GPa.

Here, let us emphasize again that zero resistivity was not obtained in
the present study, probably because of inhomogeneity of applied pressure
for the polycrystalline sample.

Figure 8: Temperature dependence of the resistance in x = 0.3 in
magnetic fields under (a) 50 GPa, (b) 70.8 GPa, and (c) 90 GPa. The
insets show magnetic field-temperature phase diagram. The solid line was
calculated using the WHH model.

Figure 7: Temperature dependence of resistance in x = 0.3 under various
pressures (a) from 12.2 to 50 GPa, and (b) from 50 to 90 GPa. (c)
Temperature dependence of resistance below 10 K under 50 GPa (right
axis) and 57.2−90 GPa (left axis). The arrows denote T_(c)^(onset) (see
text for the criterion of T_(c)^(onset)).

Single crystals will be helpful to observe a sharp superconducting
transition, as well as to investigate the anisotropy in physical
properties, such as normal state ρ, P_(c), H_(c2), and so forth.
However, a possibility of resistivity drop from Bi₂Se₃ secondary phase,
which shows superconductivity under high pressure [44, 45], can be ruled
out on the basis of following reasons: (1) We employed x = 0.3 and 0.7
for high pressure measurements. In these samples, the amount of Bi₂Se₃
is evaluated to be 0.4 wt

### First-principles calculations

To discuss the electronic structure of NdO_(0.8)F_(0.2)Sb_(1 − x)Bi₄Se₂,
we performed the first-principles calculations using vASP software.
Figure 11 shows band dispersion of x = 0, 0.4, and 0.8. Generally
speaking, these calculated results are consistent with those reported by
Ochi _et al_[19]. The band splitting between the lowest and the second
lowest conduction bands at the X point increases with increasing x,
owing to large spin-orbit coupling associated with Bi ions. The energy
difference between the lowest conduction band and the van Hove
singularity, which locates along M − Γ line, also increases with
increasing x, because of larger interatomic hopping amplitudes in Bi
ions. However, all of the calculated band structure exhibits metallic
nature, unlike experiments that show insulator-metal-like transition
upon Bi doping. We deduce that the contradiction between theory and
experiments are due to electron-trapping effect resulting from local
structural disorder/instability. All of the crystal structure of the
samples presented in this study is assigned to the tetragonal P4/mmn
space group using SPXRD measured at room temperature. However,
theoretical studies show that the existence of imaginary phonons in the
related compounds [10, 49, 50, 51]. These studies also reported that the
total energy of the tetragonal P4/mmn is not the lowest [10, 51].
Indeed, symmetry lowering to monoclinic P2₁/m[46, 52, 53] and nanoscale
atomic distortion [54, 55, 56, 57, 58, 59] have

Figure 10: Pressure-phase diagrams for resistance at 200 and 10 K (left
axis) and T_(c)^(onset) (right axis) for (a) x = 0.3 and (b) x = 0.7.

Figure 9: (a) Temperature dependence of resistance in x = 0.7 under
various pressure from 0.6 to 52 GPa. (b),(c) Temperature dependence of
the resistance in magnetic fields under (b) 43.5 GPa, and (c) 52 GPa.

been experimentally observed for BiCh₂-based compounds. For another
layered compound, R₂O₂Pn with a Pn²⁻ net, insulating nature that
originates from lattice distortion has recently been investigated
[60-65]. Although both R₂O₂Bi and R₂O₂Sb are expected to be a metallic
owing to −2 valence state of Pn, R₂O₂Sb is an insulator, most likely due
to the gap arising from the lattice instability [63]. It may be possible
that such a gap also exists in the present SbSe₂-based compounds.

## IV IV. Conclusion

We synthesized Bi-substituted SbCh₂-based compounds
NdO_(0.8)F_(0.2)Sb_(1 − x)Bi_(x)Se₂ (x = 0 − 0.8). Crystal structure
analysis using SPXRD show that these compounds crystalize in the
tetragonal P4/mmm space group at room temperature. Under ambient
pressure, an insulator-metal-like transition is observed in electrical
resistivity at x = 0.5 − 0.6. For x = 0.3 (Sb-rich composition), a
signature of a pressure-induced superconducting transition was observed
above 50 GPa. The $T_{c}^{\rm onset}$ reached 7.65 ± 0.05 K at 70.8 GPa,
and the H_(c2)(0) was estimated to be 5.6 T using the WHH model. For
x = 0.7 (Bi-rich composition), $T_{c}^{\rm onset}=5.5\pm 0.6$ K was
observed at 43.5 GPa, which is the almost comparable to that of x = 0.3.
However, H_(c2) of x = 0.7 (H_(c2)(0) = 10.9 T) is distinctly higher
than that of x = 0.3. This study demonstrates the possibility of
superconductivity in SbCh₂-based layered materials using a high pressure
technique. Furthermore, NdO_(0.8)F_(0.2)Sb_(1 − x)Bi_(x)Se₂ shows a wide
range of Sb/Bi content (x = 0 − 0.8) and will be a unique platform to
explore the difference between electrically insulating SbCh₂-based and
conducting BiCh₂-based systems.

###### Acknowledgements.

We are grateful for fruitful discussion with M. Ochi and N. Hirayama.
This work was partly supported by JST CREST Grant No. JPMJCR16Q6,
JST-Mirai Program Grant No. JPMJMI17A2, JSPS KAKENHI Grants No.
19K15291, No. 17J05926, No. 17H05481, No. 15H05886, and No. 16H04493,
and Iketani Science and Technology Foundation (No. 0301042-A), Japan. A
part of the fabrication process of the diamond electrodes was supported
by NIMS Nanofabrication Platform in Nanotechnology Platform Project
sponsored by the Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and
Technology (MEXT), Japan. Part of the high pressure experiments was
supported by the Visiting Researcher’s Program of Geodynamics Research
Center, Ehime University.

## References

* [1] Y. Mizuguchi, H. Fujihisa, Y. Gotoh, K. Suzuki, H. Usui, K.
Kuroki, S. Demura, Y. Takano, H. Izawa, and O. Miura, Phys. Rev. B
**86**, 220510(R) (2012). * [2] Y. Mizuguchi, S. Demura, K. Deguchi, Y.
Takano, H. Fujihisa, Y. Gotoh, H. Izawa, and O. Miura, J. Phys. Soc.
Jpn. **81**, 114725 (2012). * [3] Y. Mizuguchi, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn.
**88**, 041001 (2019). * [4] J. Xing, S. Li, X. Ding, H. Yang, and H. H.
Wen, Phys. Rev. B **86**, 214518 (2012). * [5] S. Demura, K. Deguchi, Y.
Mizuguchi, K. Sato, R. Honjyo, A. Yamashita, T. Yamaki, H. Hara, T.
Watanabe, S. J. Denholme, M. Fujioka, H. Okazaki, T. Ozaki, O. Miura, T.
Yamaguchi, H. Takeya, and Y. Takano, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **84**, 024709
(2015). * [6] R. Jha, A. Kumar, S. K. Singh, and V. P. S. Awana, J.
Supercond. Novel Magn. **26**, 499 (2013). * [7] S. Demura, Y.
Mizuguchi, K. Deguchi, H. Okazaki, H. Hara, T. Watanabe, S. J. Denholme,
M. Fujioka, T. Ozaki, H. Fujihisa, Y. Gotoh, O. Miura, T. Yamaguchi, H.
Takeya, and Y. Takano, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **82**, 033708 (2013). * [8]
D. Yazici, K. Huang, B. D. White, A. H. Chang, A. J. Friedman, and M. B.
Maple, Philos. Mag. **93**, 673 (2013).

* Mizuguchi _et al._ [2014]Y. Mizuguchi, T. Hiroi, J. Kajitani, H.
Takatsu, H. Kadowaki, and O. Miura, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **83**, 053704
(2014). * Wan _et al._ [2013]X. Wan, H.-C. Ding, S. Y. Savrasov, and
C.-G. Duan, Phys. Rev. B **87**, 115124 (2013). * Wu _et al._ [2014]S.
F. Wu, P. Richard, X. B. Wang, C. S. Lian, S. M. Nie, J. T. Wang, N. L.
Wang, and H. Ding, Phys. Rev. B **90**, 054519 (2014). * Lamura _et al._
[2013]G. Lamura, T. Shiroka, P. Bonfa, S. Sanna, R. De Renzi, C. Baines,
H. Luetkens, J. Kajitani, Y. Mizuguchi, O. Miura, K. Deguchi, S. Demura,
Y. Takano, and M. Putti, Phys. Rev. B **88**, 180509(R) (2013). *
Yamashita _et al._ [2016]T. Yamashita, Y. Tokiwa, D. Terazawa, M. Nagao,
S. Watauchi, I. Tanaka, T. Terashima, and Y. Matsuda, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn.
**85**, 073707 (2016). * Morice _et al._ [2017]C. Morice, R. Akashi, T.
Koretsune, S. S. Saxena, and R. Arita, Phys. Rev. B **95**, 180505(R)
(2017). * Ota _et al._ [2017]Y. Ota, K. Okazaki, H. Q. Yamamoto, T.
Yamamoto, S. Watanabe, C. Chen, M. Nagao, S. Watauchi, I. Tanaka, Y.
Takano, and S. Shin, Phys. Rev. Lett. **118**, 167002 (2017). * Hoshi
_et al._ [2018]K. Hoshi, Y. Goto, and Y. Mizuguchi, Phys. Rev. B **97**,
094509 (2018). * Usui _et al._ [2012]H. Usui, K. Suzuki, and K. Kuroki,
Phys. Rev. B **86**, 220501(R) (2012). * Suzuki _et al._ [2019]K.
Suzuki, H. Usui, K. Kuroki, T. Nomoto, K. Hattori, and H. Ikeda, J.
Phys. Soc. Jpn. **88**, 041008 (2019). * Ochi _et al._ [2017]M. Ochi, H.
Usui, and K. Kuroki, Phys. Rev. Appl. **8**, 064020 (2017). * Dong _et
al._ [2015]X.-Y. Dong, J.-F. Wang, R.-X. Zhang, W.-H. Duan, B.-F. Zhu,
J. O. Sofo, and C.-X. Liu, Nat. Commun. **6**, 8517 (2015). * Ochi _et
al._ [2019]M. Ochi, H. Usui, and K. Kuroki, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **88**,
041010 (2019). * Goto _et al._ [2018]Y. Goto, A. Miura, R. Sakagami, Y.
Kamihara, C. Moriyoshi, Y. Kuroiwa, and Y. Mizuguchi, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn.
**87**, 074703 (2018). * Nagao _et al._ [2016]M. Nagao, M. Tanaka, R.
Matsumoto, H. Tanaka, S. Watauchi, Y. Takano, and I. Tanaka, Cryst.
Growth Des. **16**, 3037 (2016). * Nagao _et al._ [2019]M. Nagao, M.
Tanaka, A. Miura, M. Kitamura, K. Horiba, S. Watauchi, Y. Takano, H.
Kumigashira, and I. Tanaka, Solid State Commun. **289**, 38 (2019). *
Matsumoto _et al._ [2019]R. Matsumoto, M. Nagao, M. Ochi, H. Tanaka, H.
Hara, S. Adachi, K. Nakamura, R. Murakami, S. Yamamoto, T. Ififune, H.
Takeya, I. Tanaka, K. Kuroki, and Y. Takano, J. Appl. Phys. **125**,
075102, (2019). * Goto _et al._ [2019]Y. Goto, A. Miura, C. Moriyoshi,
Y. Kuroiwa, and Y. Mizuguchi, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **88**, 024705
(2019). * Mizuguchi _et al._ [2015]Y. Mizuguchi, A. Miura, J. Kajitani,
T. Hiroi, and O. Miura, Sci. Rep. **5**, 14968 (2015). * Kawaguchi _et
al._ [2017]S. Kawaguchi, M. Takemoto, K. Osaka, E. Nishibori, C.
Moriyoshi, Y. Kubota, Y. Kuroiwa, and K. Sugimoto, Rev. Sci. Instrum.
**88**, 085111 (2017). * Izumi and Momma [2007]F. Izumi and K. Momma,
Solid State Phenom. **130**, 15 (2007). * Momma and Izumi [2008]K. Momma
and F. Izumi, J. Appl. Crystallogr. **41**, 653 (2008). * Matsumoto _et
al._ [2018]R. Matsumoto, A. Yamashita, H. Hara, T. Irifune, S. Adachi,
H. Takeya, and Y. Takano, Appl. Phys. Express **11**, 053101 (2018). *
Matsumoto _et al._ [2018]R. Matsumoto, H. Hara, H. Tanaka, K. Nakamura,
N. Kataoka, S. Yamamoto, T. Ififune, A. Yamashita, S. Adachi, H. Takeya,
and Y. Takano, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **87**, 124706 (2018). * Ifritune _et
al._ [2003]T. Ifritune, A. Kurio, S. Sakamoto, T. Inoue, and H. Sumiya,
Nature **421**, 599 (2003). * Piermarini _et al._ [1975]G. J.
Piermarini, S. Block, J. D. Barnett, and R. A. Forman, J. Appl. Phys.
**46**, 2774 (1975). * Akahama and Kawamura [2004]Y. Akahama and H.
Kawamura, J. Appl. Phys. **96**, 3748 (2004). * Kresse and Hafner
[1993]G. Kresse and J. Hafner, Phys. Rev. B **47**, 558(R) (1993). *
Kresse and Hafner [1994]G. Kresse and J. Hafner, Phys. Rev. B **49**,
14251 (1994). * Kresse and Furthmuller [1996]G. Kresse and J.
Furthmuller, Comput. Mater. Sci. **6**, 15 (1996). * Kresse and
Furthmuller [1996]G. Kresse and J. Furthmuller, Phys. Rev. B **54**,
11169 (1996). * Kresse and Joubert [1999]G. Kresse and D. Joubert, Phys.
Rev. B **59**, 1758 (1999). * Perdew _et al._ [1996]J. P. Perdew, K.
Burke, and M. Ernzerhof, Phys. Rev. Lett. **77**, 3865 (1996). * [42]See
Supplemental Material at
http://link.aps.org/supplemental/10.1103/PhysRevB.100.094528 for SPXRD
patterns, Rietveld fitting results, refined structural parameters, and
the criterion of T_(f) for NdO_(0.8)F_(0.2)Sb_(1. − Bi)Bi₅Se₂. * Shannon
[1976]R. D. Shannon, Acta Crystallogr. A **32**, 751 (1976). *
Kirshenbaum _et al._ [2013]K. Kirshenbaum, P. S. Sysers, A. P. Hope, N.
P. Butch, J. R. Jeffries, S. T. Weir, J. J. Hamlin, M. B. Maple, Y. K.
Vohra, and J. Paglione, Phys. Rev. Lett. **111**, 087001 (2013). * Kong
_et al._ [2013]P. P. Kong, J. L. Zhang, S. J. Zhang, J. Zhu, Q. Q. Liu,
R. C. Yu, Z. Fang, C. Q. Jin, W. G. Yang, X. H. Yu, J. L. Zhu, and Y. S.
Zhao, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter **25**, 362204 (2013). * Tomita _et al._
[2014]T. Tomita, M. Ebata, H. Soeda, H. Takahashi, H. Fujihisa, Y.
Gotoh, Y. Mizuguchi, H. Izawa, O. Miura, S. Demura, K. Deguchi, and Y.
Takano, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **83**, 063704 (2014). * Werthamer _et al._
[1966]N. R. Werthamer, E. Helfand, and P. C. Hohemberg, Phys. Rev.
**147**, 295 (1966). * Suzuki _et al._ [2015]K. Suzuki, M. Tanaka, S. J.
Denholme, M. Fujioka, T. Yamaguchi, H. Takeya, and Y. Takano, J. Phys.
Soc. Jpn. **84**, 115003 (2015). * Li _et al._ [2013]B. Li, Z. W. Xing,
and G. Q. Huang, Europhys. Lett. **101**, 47002 (2013). * Liu _et al._
[2016]Q. Liu, X. Zhang, and A. Zunger, Phys. Rev. B **93**, 174119
(2016). * Yildirim [2013]T. Yildirim, Phys. Rev. B **87**, 020506(R)
(2013). * Sagayama _et al._ [2015]R. Sagayama, H. Sagayama, R. Kumai, Y.
Murakami, T. Asano, J. Kajitani, R. Higashinaka, T. D. Matsuda, and Y.
Aoki, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **84**, 123703 (2015). * Nagasaka _et al._
[2017]K. Nagasaka, A. Nishida, R. Jha, J. Kajitani, O. Miura, R.
Higashinaka, T. D. Matsuda, Y. Aoki, A. Miura, C. Moriyoshi, Y. Kuroiwa,
H. Usui, K. Kuroki, and Y. Mizuguchi, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **86**, 074701
(2017). * Athauda _et al._ [2015]A. Athauda, J. Yang, S.-H. Lee, Y.
Mizuguchi, K. Deguchi, Y. Takano, O. Miura, and D. Louca, Phys. Rev. B
**91**, 144112 ( * Nuss and Jansen [2009]J. Nuss and M. Jansen, J.
Alloys Compd. **480**, 57 (2009). * Mizoguchi and Hosono [2011]H.
Mizoguchi and H. Hosono, J. Am. Chem. Soc. **133**, 2394 (2011). * Wang
_et al._ [2012]P. L. Wang, T. Kolodiazhnyi, J. Yao, and Y. Mozharivskyj,
J. Am. Chem. Soc. **134**, 1426 (2012). * Kim _et al._ [2015]H. Kim,
C.-J. Kang, K. Kim, J. H. Shim, and B. I. Min, Phys. Rev. B **91**,
165130 (2015). * Kim _et al._ [2016]H. Kim, C.-J. Kang, K. Kim, J. H.
Shim, and B. I. Min, Phys. Rev. B **93**, 125116 (2016). * Sei _et al._
[2016]R. Sei, S. Kitani, T. Fukumura, H. Kawaji, and T. Hasegawa, J. Am.
Chem. Soc. **138**, 11085 (2016).
