Recently Soulen _et al._1 adapted the theory of Ambegaokar-Halperin (AHD
(Ref. 2) to account for dissipation in superconductors. They
successfully fitted the _I-V_ curves of several Pb-Bi-Sr-Ca-Cu-O
(Pb-BSCCO) tapes and coils which they measured as a function of
temperature and magnetic field. In this article the study is extended to
include examples of the superconducting material Pb-Hg-Ba-Ca-Cu-O.

Two Pb-Hg-Ba-Ca-Cu-O samples were made and studied. The first, sample 1,
was prepared by heating nitrates of Ba, Ca, and Cu at 600 degC for 20 h,
grinding the mixture to a powder and then reacting once again at 600
degC for 24 h.3 The powder was then mixed with HgO and PbO, placed in a
sealed quartz tube, and reacted in an oven at 855 degC for 6 h to
produce a boule of Pb0.2Hg0.8Ba2Ca1.75Cu3O2. Visual inspection of the
material in an optical microscope showed that it was very granular.
X-ray diffraction indicated that the boule was composed primarily of
1223 phase (95

Preparation of the second sample, numbered 2, differed only in the last
step where the reacted Ba, Ca, and Cu powders were mixed with HgO and
PbO and placed in a gold tube which was sealed inside a stainless steel
pouch. This assembly was inserted into a hot isostatic press where the
mixture was reacted at 900 degC and at a pressure of 30 000 Psi in order
to form a boule. Inspection of this material in an optical microscope
showed that it was less granular and denser (almost 97

The samples were mounted into a Bakelite holder and electrical contacts
were made by soldering copper wires directly to the sample using indium
solder. A four-contact _I-V_ configuration was used. In order to prevent
overheating, the samples were immersed directly into the liquid
nitrogen, neon, or helium in a dewar. The dewar fit inside a Helmholtz
coil which could be rotated and which provided fields up to 6 T with an
imprecision of about 1 mT. For the data reported here, the Helmholtz
coil was oriented such that the sample current was always normal to the
applied magnetic field. _I-V_ curves were measured under computer
control. The current supply provided a minimum current increment of 5
mA.

Above _T_c the temperature dependence of the normal-state resistivity
r_(N)(_T_) (Fig. 1) and its derivative _d__p__N_(_T_)/_dT_ (see inset)
were measured for sample 2. From this figure it is clear that the
midpoint of the superconductive transition (T_(c)) and its width were
133.6 and 2.5 K, respectively. In order to fit the temperature
dependence of the resistivity we used a model for granular materials
developed by Halbritter.4 The model presumes that the material consists
of grains of average diameter a which are connected by grain boundaries
which have a grain-boundary resistance per unit area, _R_gb. In a
granular system the conduction path followed by the current is
lengthened and its cross-sectional area is reduced. To account for both
of these effects, the intrinsic resistivity of the material is scaled by
a percolation parameter p. Thus the total resistivity in Halbritter’s
model is written as

$$\rho_{N}(T) = (R_{\rm{gb}}/a) + p(\alpha^{i}T + \rho_{0L}^{i}),$$
(1)

where α^(i) and ρ_(0L)^(i) represent the properties of the pure
material. These quantities are not yet available for pure
Pb-Hg-Ba-Ca-Cu-O as synthesis of this material is still evolving. The
best estimates we make are based on the latest ρ(T) curves from the
University of Houston. From these curves we conclude that α^(i) = 4.7μΩ
cm/K and ρ_(0L)^(i) = −250μΩ cm. Using Eq. (1) with these parameters, we
found values for p and $(R_{\rm{gb}}/a)$ of 2.4 and 728 μΩ cm²,
respectively. They indicate that the sample is rather granular. From the
same fit of ρ_(N)(T) we obtained the following extrapolated values:
ρ_(N)(T7) = 1034μΩ cm, ρ_(N)(27) = 399μΩ cm, and ρ_(N)(4.2) = 184μΩ cm.
We were unable to measure the resistance of sample 1 because its
resistance became very large while being stored at room temperature
after the I-V curves were taken but before R(T) was to be measured.
Nevertheless, on the basis of other evidence to be presented below, we
infer that this sample is even more granular than sample 2.

Examples of the I-V curves obtained at temperatures of 77, 27, and 4.2 K
for samples 1 and 2 are shown in Fig. 2, where the magnetic field was
set equal to 0.01 T in all cases. The voltage is plotted on a
logarithmic scale to display the behavior of the I-V curves at low
voltage. The voltage was measured both as the current was increased and
as the current was decreased; the lack of hysteresis indicated that
heating of the immersed sample was not significant. Note that the
current scale is roughly 10 times smaller for sample 1, providing the
first clue that this sample was more granular than sample 2. Several
sets of I-V curves were obtained for magnetic fields between 0 and 6 T
at the same three temperatures for these samples.

The I-V curves for both samples were fitted by a modification of the AH
model [1] which yielded three parameters: R which is related to the
normal resistance R_(N) of the material, I_(c) which is the critical
current, and γ which is defined as γ^(i) = U(H, T)/k_(B)T. Here k_(B) is
Boltzmann’s constant and U(H, T) is the pinning potential. The following
equation, which previous work (Ref. [1]) showed was an adequate
substitute for the full solution to the AH solution, was used for the
fitting:

I(V) = m₁ + m₂ln (V) + m₃V,
(2)

where m₁ = (2/π)I_(c)[1 − (1/γ)ln (I_(c)R)], m₂ = (2/π)(I_(c)/γ), and
m₃ = (1/R). The fits of Eq. (2) to the data are represented in Fig. 2 as
the solid lines. The quality of the AH fits to the data is apparent. For
sample 1 at T = 77 K and H = 0.01 T, the fitted parameters were
I_(c) = 0.092 ± 0.003 A, γ = 9.3±0.3, and R = 0.0218 ± 0.0005Ω. At
T = 27 K and H = 0.01 T, the fitted parameters were
I_(c) = 0.185 ± 0.003 A, γ = 12.6 ± 0.2, and R = 0.0172 ± 0.0005Ω. At
T = 4.2 K and H = 0.01 T, the fitted parameters were
I_(c) = 0.370 ± 0.0008 A, γ = 12.5 ± 0.3, and R = 0.0184 ± 0.0005Ω. The
temperature dependence of R is consistent with Eq. (1): it enters the
residual resistance region somewhere above 27 K (the values of R at
T = 27 and 4 K are equivalent to within their fitted uncertainties). γ
increases monotonically as the temperature is lowered and also saturates
below 27 K.

To compare the values for I_(c) obtained in this manner with those
obtained by a more traditional definition, we also calculated I_(c) from
the conventional definition using a 1 μV/cm criterion. [5] For T = 77,
27, and 4.2 K, we obtained I_(c) = 0.0085, 0.043, and 0.071 A,
respectively. As expected from their respective definitions, I_(c)
defined by the AH fits is larger than that defined by the voltage
criterion. [1] A similar conclusion is reached by conducting a similar
analysis of the data for sample 2.

The resistivity ρ(T, H) = R(T, H)(A/I) was calculated from the AH fits
and is presented in Fig. 3 for samples 1 and

Figure 1: The temperature dependence of the normal-state resistivity
ρ_(N)(T) and its derivative dρ_(N)(T)/dT (inset) for sample 2.

Figure 2: I-V curves for samples 1 and 2 at temperatures of 77 K (●), 27
K (▾), and 4.2 K (●) in a magnetic field of 0.01 T.

2 at temperatures of 77, 27, and 4.2 K. The resistivity of sample 1 is
roughly 10 times larger than that for sample 2, attesting to the greater
granularity of the former. We observe that ρ(T, H) for sample 2 lies
below the extrapolated value of ρ_(N)(T) which implies that ρ(T, H) is a
measure of the flux-flow resistivity rather than a direct measure of the
normal-state resistivity. This interpretation has already been given to
data similarly analyzed for thin films of granular Y-Ba-Cu-O.[6]

The magnetic-field dependence of the critical current density
J_(c)(H, T) obtained from the AH fits is shown for both samples in Fig.
4 where the magnetic field has been corrected for the field generated by
the current. Small magnetic fields are seen to have a profound effect on
J_(c) which is yet another manifestation of granularity.[7] Furthermore,
the critical current density of sample 1 is a factor of 10 smaller than
that for sample 2 in accordance with its greater granularity.[5] The
data were fitted to an equation of the form

$$J_{c}(H,T)=\frac{A(1-t)^{m}}{(H+H_{0})}+B,$$
(3)

where t = T/T_(c), H₀ is the vector combination of the residual magnetic
field in the superconducting solenoid (typically 0.005 T) and the
magnetic field generated by the current, while A and B are fitted
parameters. Equation (3) represents the function derived by Peterson and
Ekin[7] to describe the effect of magnetic field on the critical current
of an array of weakly-coupled, circular grains which behave as Josephson
junctions. At low magnetic fields, where the current is carried by the
Josephson junctions, J_(c) is very sensitive to magnetic field and thus
varies inversely with H [the first term in Eq. (3)]. At higher magnetic
fields, where the current follows a path through material with
essentially bulk properties, the critical current is relatively
insensitive to magnetic field [the second term in Eq. (3)]. Curves
fitted through the data points

Figure 4: The dependence J_(c)(H, T) obtained from the AH fits for
samples 1 and 2 at temperatures of 77 K (●), 28 K (□), and 4.2 K (○).

Figure 5: The dependence γ(H, T) obtained from the AH fits for samples 1
and 2 at temperatures of 77 K (●), 27 K (□), and 4.2 K (○).

Figure 3: The resistivity ρ(T, H) calculated from the AH fits and is
presented for samples 1 and 2 at temperatures of 77 K (●), 27 K (□), and
4.2 K (○).

using Eq. (3) are shown in Fig. 4. Curves of J_(c)(H, T)/(1 − t)^(1.5)
for each sample collapse to a common curve (not shown). This value for m
is reasonable and in accordance with what is generally found for other
superconductors. The uncertainty in m (± 0.5) is large, however, due to
the fact that J_(c)(H) was measured at only three temperatures. Values
for B for sample 1 were 17.7, 14.1, and 7.0 A/cm² at T = 4.2, 27, and 77
K, respectively. Values for B for sample 2 were 272, 244, and 118 A/cm²
at T = 4.2, 27, and 77 K, respectively. These values for B are so small
compared to those obtained for other, less granular ceramic
superconductors that we conclude that, even at comparatively high
magnetic fields, the critical current density is limited by granularity.
Thus in neither case then do these values for B represent the intrinsic
properties of the material.

Also obtained from the AH fits is the parameter γ = U(H, T)/k_(B)T which
is plotted in Fig. 5 for both samples. The most notable features is
that, above a relatively small magnetic field of 10⁻² T, γ converges to
a value between 9 and 12 which is independent of the sample and
temperature. Analysis of granular Y-Ba-Cu-O films [6] and Bi-Sr-Ca-Cu-O
(Ref. 1) by the same procedure yields similar behavior where γ attains
values of 30 and 15, respectively. We interpret this behavior observed
for Pb-Hg-Bi-Sr-Ca-Cu-O as an indication of an intrinsic property of the
material.

In conclusion, we have fabricated samples of
Pb_(0.2)Hg_(0.8)Ba₂Ca_(1.75)Cu₃O_(x) and found that their measured
transport properties were dominated by their granular nature which
masked reduction of most of the intrinsic characteristics of the
material. The exception is the pinning potential which we believe
reflects an intrinsic property. These samples, being dominated by
grain-boundary effects, provide an excellent opportunity to test the
applicability of the AH model in a regime where it is especially well
suited. Determination of the intrinsic critical current density must
await, however, the time when such materials can be made with
considerably fewer grain boundaries.

We thank Paul Chu, Texas Center for Superconductivity at the University
of Houston, for making results available to us before publication.

## References

* [1] R. J. Soulen, Jr., T. L. Francavilla, W. W. Fuler-Mora, M. M.
Miller, C. Joshi, and W. L. Carter, Phys. Rev. B **50**, 478 (1994). *
[2] V. Ambegaokar and B. I. Halperin, Phys. Rev. Lett. **22**, 1364
(1969). * [3] A. R. Drews, M. S. Osofsky, C. C. Kim, S. B. Qadri, V. M.
Browning, E. F. Skelton, L. Toth, and S. Lawrence (unpublished). * [4]
J. Halbritter, Phys. Rev. B **48**, 9735 (1993). * [5] That is, a slope
is drawn tangent to the I-V curve at V  = 1μV. The intercept on the
current axis defines the value of I_(c). * [6] D. H. Liebenberg, R. J.
Soulen, Jr., T. L. Francavilla, W. W. Fuller-Mora, P. C. McIntre, and M.
J. Cima (unpublished). * [7] R. L. Peterson and J. W. Ekin, Phys. Rev. B
**37**, 9848 (1988).
