# Strongly coupled charge-density wave transition in single-crystal
Lu5Ir4Si10

B. Becker, N. G. Patil,* S. Ramakrishnan,* A. A. Menovsky,+ G. J.
Nieuwenhuys, and J. A. Mydosh

Kamerlingh Onnes Laboratory, Leiden University, 2300 RA Leiden, The
Netherlands

M. Kohgi and K. Iwasa

Department of Physics, Tokyo Metropolitan University, Tokyo 192-0397,
Japan

Received 13 November 1998

###### Abstract

We report the observation of a strongly coupled first-order
charge-density wave (CDW) transition in a high-quality single crystal of
the intermetallic compound Lu5Ir4Si10. The first-order nature is
ascertained by a very narrow and huge cusp (360 J/mol K) in the specific
heat. The susceptibility and the resistivity also show sharp jumps at
the transition $T_{\rm CDW}$=83 K. The periodic lattice distortion
associated with the CDW is exemplified by the formation of x-ray
superlattice reflections along the tetragonal $\stackrel{{\sim}}{{c}}$
axis with $\stackrel{{\sim}}{{q}}$≈(0,0,$\frac{3}{7}$) (_T_<83 K).
Although our results are in accordance with a quasi-one-dimensional CDW
scenario, the first-order transition suggests a strong interchain
coupling. We propose Lu5Ir4Si10 as a paradigm of such strong-coupling
CDW systems. [S0163-1829(99)05808-7]

The occurrence of charge-density waves (CDW’s) in low-dimensional
compounds was first addressed by Peierls1 and Frohlich,2 who showed that
a one-dimensional electron gas, coupled to phonons, is unstable at low
temperatures against a periodic lattice distortion, which results in a
metal-insulator transition. Experimentally, this was initially observed
in the platinum chain compound K3P(CN)4.0.3Br ⋅xIr2O,3 and the
quasi-one-dimensional (1D) organic charge transfer salt TTF-TCNQ.4 The
Peierls-Frohlich theory is a weak electron-phonon coupling approach in
the mean-field scenario, which is equivalent to the BCS theory and
predicts a second-order phase transition that attributes the formation
of CDW’s to the reduced dimensionality of the Fermi surface (FS) and its
nesting.5 However, in the absence of interchain coupling, 1D
fluctuations shift the phase transition to 0 K. Finite $T_{\rm CDW}$ is
observed only due to a weak 3D coupling between the chains, and the
Peierls-Frohlich transition is strongly reduced below its mean-field
value. In some cases, such as in NbSe3, 6 a substantial transverse
coupling has induced a semimetallic behavior. Many predictions for the
properties of CDW’s, such as nonlinear transport, in systems like
quasi-1D NbSe3 (Ref. 7) or the quasi-1D blue bronzes,8 have been
experimentally verified. However, the explanation for the thermodynamic
properties reflecting the nature of the CDW transition in TaSe2 (Ref. 9)
and the blue bronze K0.3MoO3 (Ref. 10) requires a description beyond the
weak-coupling theory. The first-order CDW transition in TaSe2 (Ref. 11)
can be semi-quantitatively understood via a microscopic theory proposed
by McMillan.12 This model invokes a short coherence length which leads
to significant phonon softening (lattice entropy) as measured by
Moncton, Axe, and Di Salvo9 at $T_{\rm CDW}$. The influence of
structural defects on the first- or second-order CDW transition is
poorly understood, and often complicates the analysis. An experimental
search for new strong interchain coupled CDW systems would clearly give
a better understanding of CDW behavior.

In this paper we provide an observation of a first-order CDW transition
in stoichiometric single crystals of Lu5Ir4Si10 at $T_{\rm CDW}$=83 K.
The single-crystal x-ray diffraction confirms the periodic lattice
distortion (PLD) by tracking the appearance and growth of superlattice
peaks along the tetragonal $\stackrel{{\sim}}{{c}}$ axis with
$\stackrel{{\sim}}{{q}}$≈(0,0,$\frac{3}{7}$)(_T_<83 K). The
specific-heat anomaly is sharper than those reported on other CDW
systems. We classify Lu5Ir4Si10 as a strong interchain coupled CDW
system with a first-order phase transition.

Lu5Ir4Si10 adopts a tetragonal Sc5Co4Si10 (_P_4/_mbm_) structure, and
becomes superconducting below 3.9 K.13 From their studies on
polycrystalline samples, Shelton _et al._14 suggested a partial gapping
of the FS which was inferred from the increase of the resistivity and
the decrease of susceptibility with decreasing temperature at the phase
transition, 80 K. High-pressure studies15 revealed the progressive
suppression to lower temperatures of this transition and its ultimate
quenching at 21.4 kbar, with a concomitant rise in the superconducting
T_(c) from 3.9 to 9.1 K. This reflects the intimate interplay of both
transitions. Shelton _et al._14 claimed the possibility of a CDW
formation at 80 K in Lu5Ir4Si10. However, all of these studies were made
of polycrystalline samples, and, thus, contain no information on the
anisotropy which is expected for a CDW compound. Moreover, the metallic
nature of Lu5Ir4Si10 is in contrast to the behavior of typical CDW
systems. It is worthwhile to recall here that similar anomalies could
arise due to Martensitic structural instabilities. As an example, these
instabilities in the A15 compounds are attributed to the lifting of the
degeneracy of electronic bands.16,17 In order to elucidate the
properties of Lu5Ir4Si10 and to prove the existence of the CDW, we have
undertaken thermodynamic, transport and low-temperature
x-ray-diffraction measurements on single crystals.

Single-crystalline samples have been grown in a tri-arc furnace using a
modified Czochralski technique18 (pulling rate 10 mm/h; seed rotation.
20 rpm for the counter-rotating crucible). The purities of the elements
melted in a stoichiometric ratio were Lu: 4N; Ir: 4N; and Si: 5N. Parts
of the single crystal have been sealed in a quartz tube, and annealed
under high vacuum at 900 degC for one week. All samples have been
analyzed by electron-probe microanalysis, which proved them to be single
phase (second phase <1

Figure 1 illustrates the structure of Lu₃Ir₄Si₁₀, where long solid lines
indicate the tetragonal unit cell. Lu-Lu bonds are shown by thick lines.
Atomic positions in the unit cell are refined using a single-crystal
x-ray diffractometer with 2642 reflections at 295 K. The estimated
positions are given in Table 1 (_R_ = 0.05). Lu₃Ir₄Si₁₀ has rather good
metallic properties [ρ(295 K)   200 μΩ cm], [15] nevertheless we can
assume as in Ref. [7] that the bond length is a qualitative measure for
the "metallic" conduction along the bond direction. The Lu atoms occupy
three different sites, of which Lu1 has the highest local symmetry with
its fourfold axis, and the nearest Lu neighbor of Lu1 lying along the c⃗
axis (4.1852 A). The two Lu1 atoms are connected via short bonds to Si3
atoms, and form a chainlike structure along the c⃗ axis. The Ir atoms
separate the Lu1 chains from the Lu2 and Lu3 atoms
(d${}_{\rm La1\mathchar 45Lu2}$=5.0574 A and
d${}_{\rm La1\mathchar 45Lu3}$ = 5.460 A). Short Lu-Lu bonds occur
between Lu2 and Lu3 sites (d${}_{\rm La2\mathchar 45Lu3}$=3.676 A). As a
first approximation, the structure Lu₃Ir₄Si₁₀ can be visualized as 1D
chains of Lu1 atoms (bonded to Ir and Si3 atoms) which are embedded in a
network of closely bonded Lu2 and Lu3 atoms.

Figure 2 displays the temperature dependence of resistivity (ρ) along
the a⃗ and c⃗ axes. At 300 K the resistivity values are ρ_(a)   195 μΩ cm
and ρ_(c)   60 μΩ cm. The ρ(T) data show a sharp upward jump at 83 K (D
ρ   30 μΩ cm with D   15 K) with decreasing temperature. The sample
undergoes a superconducting transition at 3.9 K with a width (10-90

Heat-capacity measurements have been performed using a quasiadiabatic
heat pulse technique. The temperature dependence of the specific heat
(c_(p)) plotted in Fig. 3 shows a huge spike (D_c__p_   160 J/mol K) at
$T_{\rm CDW}$. The transition is accompanied by an entropy change of
0.5R where R is the gas constant. The height of the peak in c_(p)(_T_)
indicates a first-order phase transition.

Single-crystal x-ray diffraction has been measured at 10 K by performing
(_h_ ,0,_g_) scans with h = 0,1,2,3. No temperature dependence of the
structural (_P_4/_m_b_m_) peak intensity was observed. X-ray
superlattice peaks appear below 85 K, which can be indexed as [_h_
,0,l + (_n_/_l_)], where n = 1,2, ... ,6. The relative intensities of
the superlattice peaks depend on the scans; however, among these the
largest in

Figure 1: Crystal structure of tetragonal Lu₃Ir₄Si₁₀ (_a_ = 12.4936 Å, c
= 4.1852 Å). Large, intermediate, and small spheres represent Lu, Ir,
and Si, respectively. The Lu-Lu bonds shorter than 4.3 Å are indicated
by the thick lines. Lu-Ir bonds have an intermediate thickness, and
other bonds shorter than 3.3 Å are drawn as thin lines.

tensities are observed for the (_h_,0,J +- $\frac{3}{7}$) peaks. Figure
4 exhibits the temperature dependence of the superlattice peak intensity
as observed in (0,0,_xi_) scans. The position of the two superlattice
peaks, corresponding to the Mo _K__a_1 and Mo _K__a_2 lines, do not
shift with respect that of structural (_P_4/_mbm_) peaks with
temperature. This implies that q⃗ is along the c⃗ direction and is T
independent. The inset of Fig. 4 shows the temperature dependence of the
integrated intensities. At 80 K nearly the full integrated superlattice
peak intensity is attained.

The appearance of the superlattice reflections at [_h_,0,l + (_n_/_T_)]
firmly establishes the PLD with a commensurate lattice modulation of
seven (_P_4/_mbm_) unit cells. The largest (_h_,0,l +- $\frac{3}{7}$)
superlattice peak intensities indicate q⃗ (0,0,$\frac{3}{7}$).
Nevertheless, the actual structural modulation is not simply a sine wave
because of the presence of all the components of the superlattice
modulation with a seven-unit-cell period along the c⃗ axis. A lattice
modulation along the c⃗ axis implies a quasi-1D PLD, and excludes a
structural transition driven by a lifting of an electronic band
degeneracy.[17] The occurrence of the superlattice peaks at 2 K
demonstrates the coexistence of CDW’s and superconductivity, which will
be discussed elsewhere.[19]

The magnetic susceptibility can be expressed as χ⃗_(i) = χ⃗_(C) + χ⃗_(P) +
χ⃗_(i, L), where χ⃗_(C) is the isotropic core susceptibility, χ⃗_(P) is the
isotropic Pauli susceptibility, and χ⃗_(i, L) is the anisotropic Landau
susceptibility. The direction of the magnetic field is indicated by i
(B⃗/a⃗ or B⃗/c⃗). χ⃗_(i, L) can be calculated from the band structure,[20]
which is unfortunately not known at the present. However, the
anisotropic susceptibility implies an anisotropic FS. The drop of χ(T)
at $T_{\rm CDW}$ corresponds to a change of the density of states at the
FS. The reduced drop along the c⃗ axis is consistent with the model of
Boriack[21] which predicted a smaller Landau (negative) contribution of
the FS along the chain direction as compared to that perpendicular to
the c⃗ axis.

The absence of a metal-insulator transition at $T_{\rm CDW}$ implies a
partial gapping of the FS. Furthermore, for typical CDW systems the
anisotropy in ρ, measured as the ratio parallel and perpendicular to the
chain direction, is much larger[22] than observed for Lu₃Ir₄Si₁₀. The
behavior of ρ_(c)(T) can be qualitatively understood within a simple
model assuming two conductivity channels, one related to the Lu1 chains
and the other due to the Lu2-Lu3 network. The first channel at
$T_{\rm CDW}$ undergoes a metal-insulator transition, while the network
remains metallic. The projection of the FS change on the a⃗ axis governs
ρ_(a)(T), thereby giving the step at $T_{\rm CDW}$.

Although the resistivity and the susceptibility can be understood within
a conventional CDW scenario, the large anomaly in the specific heat
makes this CDW transition especially unusual. Most of the CDW systems
have only small c_(p) anomalies at their $T_{\rm CDW}$.[23] They also
have a significant excess specific heat associated with the fluctuations
of the order parameter in the region spanning 5-10

The temperature dependence of the x-ray peak intensities distinctly
shows a non-BCS-like dependence for the CDW order parameter, indicating
the nonapplicability of the Peierls-Frohlich theory. McMillan[12]
proposed that when the coherence length of the CDW state is short, the
lattice plays a dominant role in the thermodynamics of the CDW
transition with a strong critical behavior. A large phonon contributions
to c_(p) could arise from phonon softening that results in the Kohn
anomaly.[9] In the weak-coupling limit (diverging coherence length at
$T_{\rm CDW}$) the energy gap Δ corresponds to the BCS expression Δ(0K)
= 3.53k_(B)T_(c). In order to apply McMillan’s short coherence length
model, one must have

Figure 4: X-ray-diffraction pattern of the superlattice reflections
peaks of Lu₃Ir₄Si₁₀ at different temperatures. The lines indicate the
best fit to two Lorentzian lines. The inset: Integrated peak intensities
vs temperature of the superlattice reflections of Lu₃Ir₄Si₁₀ calculated
from the best fits to the two Lorentzian lines. For comparison, the
solid line represents the temperature dependence of the BCS gap.

Figure 3: Specific heat vs temperature of Lu₃Ir₄Si₁₀. Inset: Specific
heat on an enlarged temperature scale with linear fit to “background”
(left axis), and calculated entropy change after the subtraction of the
“background” around 83 K (right axis).

$\Delta(0)\!\!>\!\!7k_{B}T_{\rm CDW}$. Preliminary measurements [25] of
the optical reflectivity show a change in the spectral weight as a
function of temperature below 500 cm⁻¹ which indicates charge (and
structural) fluctuations with an increased number of carriers for
$T\!\!>\!\!T_{\rm CDW}$. A gap of order 700 K (≈500 cm⁻¹) is in
agreement with the prerequisites of the McMillan model. A qualitative
description of Lu₅Ir₄Si₁₀ within the later theory seems possible.

In the case of blue bronze Kwok, Gruner, and Brown [10] discussed their
results in terms of McMillan’s model, although the changes in the
Young’s moduli [26] are small (2−3

To conclude, detailed bulk measurements along with x-ray studies suggest
a strong interchain coupled first-order CDW transition below 83 K in
Lu₅Ir₄Si₁₀ single crystals. This material could serve as a prototype for
strong interchain coupled quasi-one-dimensional CDW systems. Further
experimentation on Lu₅Ir₄Si₁₀ , concerning the structural fluctuations
(synchrotron radiation) and the lattice softening (inelastic neutron
scattering), would lead to a better understanding of CDW’s beyond the
weak-coupling limit. Finally, there exists a series of magnetic rare
earth 5-4-10 allomorphs [28] that allow new investigations of the
coexistence and/or competition of magnetism and CDW.

This work was supported in part by the Dutch Stichting FOM. We wish to
acknowledge S. Gorter for structure refinements, and many fruitful
discussions with J. Zaanen.

## References
