Two energy gaps in the tunneling-conductance spectra of the
superconducting clathrate Ba₈Si₄₆

Yves Noat, Tristan Cren, Pierre Toulemonde, Alfonso San Miguel, Francois
Debontridder, Vincent Dubost, and Dimitri Roditchev

Institut des Nanosciences de Paris, Universite Pierre et Marie
Curie-Paris 6, CNRS-UMR 7588, 4 place Jussieu, 75252 Paris, France;
Institut Neel, CNRS et Universite Joseph Fourier, 25 Avenue des Martyrs,
BP 166, F-38042 Grenoble Cedex 9, France; and Laboratoire de Physique de
la Matiere Condensee et Nanostructures, CNRS UMR-5586, Universite Claude
Bernard Lyon 1, 43 Bld du 11 Novembre 1918, 69622 Villeurbanne, Lyon,
France

###### Abstract

We have studied the quasiparticle excitation spectrum of the
superconductor Ba₈Si₄₆ by local tunneling spectroscopy. Using
high-energy resolution achieved in
superconductor-insulator-superconductor junctions we observed tunneling
conductance spectra of a nonconventional shape revealing two distinct
energy gaps, Δ_(L) = 1.3 ± 0.1 meV and Δ_(S)=0.9 ± 0.2 meV. The analysis
of tunneling data identified Δ_(L) as the leading superconducting gap in
the bulk material. A smaller and more dispersive gap Δ_(S) is
interpreted as induced either in reciprocal space, via the quasiparticle
interband scattering from the leading superconducting band, or in real
space, by the proximity effect to a normal layer at the surface.

pacs: 74.25.F-, 74.25.Dw, 74.50.+r + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL
REVIEW B **81**, 104522 (2010)

## I Introduction

In their microscopic theory of superconductivity [1] Bardeen, Cooper,
and Schrieffer (BCS) predicted the existence of a single gap Δ in the
elementary excitation spectrum of a superconductor (SC). However,
already in late 1960s, some superconductors from the A15 family did show
anomalies in specific heat that could be attributed to the presence of
several energy gaps. [2, 3] The existence of two energy gaps has also
been suggested for Nb, Ta, and V. [4] Recent discovery of the two
distinct SC gaps in MgB₂ reported in specific heat [5] and scanning
tunneling microscopy/spectroscopy (STM/STS) experiments, [6, 7, 8] with
the excitation spectrum deviating from the BCS, strongly renewed the
interest for nonstandard superconductors. [9, 10, 11, 12]

Among the covalent sp³ materials, such as silicon carbide or silicon (or
carbon) diamond, the silicon clathrate Ba₈Si₄₆ appears to be a good
candidate for a nonconventional superconductivity. This doped clathrate
is formed by covalent Si₂₀ and Si₁₄ cages sharing their faces and filled
with intercalated Ba atoms (for more details, see Ref. [13]). It has
been shown that the superconductivity appearing in Ba₈Si₄₆ at T_(c)=8.1
K (Refs. [14, 15, 16, 17, 18]) is mediated by phonons and is an
intrinsic property of the sp³ network formed by Si atoms. [17] Eight
encaged Ba atoms per unit cell provide the charge carriers [19]
resulting in a complex band structure with several bands crossing the
Fermi level. Thus, one could expect the superconductivity to be more or
less developed in the different bands and to depend strongly on the
interband scattering. Up to now however, the question remained a subject
of controversy: Tanigaki _et al._[18] concluded on a conventional BCS
superconductivity in Ba₈Si₄₆, while tunneling spectroscopy data
evidenced for an anisotropic order parameter, [20] and recent results of
specific-heat measurements were reported to be consistent with two-gap
superconductivity. [12]

In this paper we report the local tunneling spectroscopy (TS) of Ba₈Si₄₆
performed in the STM geometry. In order to enhance the energy
resolution, we studied superconductor-vacuum-superconductor (SIS)
tunneling junctions formed by _in situ_ cleaved Ba₈Si₄₆ grains (used as
STM tips) (Ref. [6]) and a clean surface of 2H-NbSe₂. Such specific
geometry allowed us to obtain high-quality tunneling junctions using
available small granular Ba₈Si₄₆ samples. Ba₈Si₄₆-vacuum-Ba₈Si₄₆ SIS
junctions were realized by gently crashing and then retracting the
Ba₈Si₄₆ tips into/from the surface of 2H-NbSe₂.

Statistical analysis of the SIS spectra revealed the existence of two
energy gaps. A large one Δ_(L) = 1.3 ± 0.1 meV, giving a ratio
2Δ_(L)/kT_(c)=3.7 ± 0.3 comparable with the BCS value, is unambiguously
attributed to the superconductivity in the bulk Ba₈Si₄₆ material. A
smaller one Δ_(S) =0.9 ± 0.2 meV, appearing in the tunneling spectra of
a nonconventional shape may, in principle, have two distinct origins.
From one side, it could reflect the superconductivity induced in an
intrinsically nonsuperconducting surface layer by proximity to the bulk
Ba₈Si₄₆. From another side, the small gap may arise in an intrinsically
nonsuperconducting electronic band of Ba₈Si₄₆ by the interband
quasiparticle scattering from another (leading) superconducting band. In
the latter scenario Ba₈Si₄₆ material is a two-gap superconductor.

## II Tunneling-spectroscopy experiments

Polycrystalline Ba₈Si₄₆ samples were synthesized at high pressure and
temperature. [14, 19] The Ba₈Si₄₆ tips were fabricated by gluing a small
grain of the material at the apex of a standard P/Ir tip. The grains
were then fractured prior tunneling-spectroscopy experiment in order to
expose a clean surface facing the STM junction (see insets in Figs. 1
and 2). In this work, both _ex situ_ and _in situ_ fractured Ba₈Si₄₆
tips were studied. As a control of the tip quality, the ability of the
tips to image Au or NbSe₂ surfaces was systematically checked. We also
visualized the vortex lattice in NbSe₂ (Fig. 2) and observed the
voltage-dependent contrast expected for high-quality SIS junctions. [21]
This is an indication of both the _vacuum tunneling_ regime and the
_clean surfaces_ of the tunneling electrodes. The raw I(V) data acquired
at tunneling resistances 10−100 MΩ were numerically derived and the
resulting dI(V)/dV spectra are presented normalized to unity for
clarity.

Before focusing on the SIS spectroscopy, we first present in Fig. 1
typical superconductor insulator normal metal (SIN) tunneling
conductance spectra obtained with Ba₈Si₄₆/Au tunneling junctions. The
spectra exhibit a smooth apparent gap Δ_(Ba₈Si₄₆)≈ 1.0 meV with no
additional spectroscopic features visible. The position of the peaks
varies (typically ±0.2 mV) from one grain to another. Such thermally
broadened SIN spectra are quite identical to those previously
reported,[20] and which were interpreted as resulting from the
anisotropy of the SC gap in the bulk. Nevertheless, the thermal
broadening of ≃3.5kT inherent to the SIN spectroscopy strongly impairs
the energy resolution of TS at 2.3 K, giving one no chance to reveal
fine spectroscopic features in the density of states (DOS). To overcome
the thermal broadening limitation we applied SIS spectroscopy and thus
considerably enhanced the energy resolution.

A typical Ba₈Si₄₆-NbSe₂ SIS spectrum is presented as the dotted blue
(black) curve in Fig. 2. In SIS configuration the peaks appear at the
position Δ_(peak)=Δ_(NbSe₂)+Δ_(Ba₈Si₄₆). Considering Δ_(NbSe₂)(7=2.2 K)
≈ 1.1 meV leads to Δ_(Ba₈Si₄₆)≈ 0.8 meV. The peaks are clearly better
resolved than with SIN spectroscopy (Fig. 1). The SIS tunneling spectra
are even sharper with Ba₈Si₄₆-Ba₈Si₄₆ SIS junctions, as shown in Fig. 3
[circled blue (black) curve]. The peaks sharpness obtained both with
NbSe₂ and Ba₈Si₄₆ counterexlectrodes clearly demonstrates the effect of
enhanced energy resolution in SIS tunneling spectroscopy with respect to
SIN geometry. The pure-BCS fit of the Ba₈Si₄₆-Ba₈Si₄₆ spectrum [red
(gray) solid line in Fig. 3] gives Δ_(Ba₈Si₄₆)=1.04 meV. Thus, both SIN
and SIS data in Figs. 1-3 reveal a gap value of Δ_(Ba₈Si₄₆)=0.9 ± 0.2
meV, corresponding to 2Δ_(Ba₈Si₄₆)/kT_(e) =2.6 < 3.52 which is much too
low to account for the superconductivity in bulk Ba₈Si₄₆. Furthermore,
the standard BCS fit [red (gray) line in Fig. 3] fails to account for
strongly

Figure 2: (Color online) Ba₈Si₄₆ vs NbSe₂ SIS spectra at _T_=2.3 K. The
spectra reveal two distinct energy gaps in Ba₈Si₄₆ (showed with arrows):
Δ_(S)≈ 0.8 meV for the blue (black) curve and Δ_(L)≈ 1.4 meV for the red
(gray) curve. Above: vortex lattice in NbSe₂ at _B_=0.165 T revealed
with a Ba₈Si₄₆ tip at several biases (from left to right) −2.0, −0.9,
+1.0, and +1.9 mV showing the contrast inversion characteristic of SIS
junctions (Ref. 21).

Figure 3: (Color online) A typical Ba₈Si₄₆ vs Ba₈Si₄₆ SIS tunneling
conductance spectrum [circled blue (black) curve]. A pure BCS fit, red
(gray) line, clearly fails to reproduce the dips and the broadened
quasiparticle peaks (pointed with arrows).

_broadened quasiparticle peaks_ and local minima–_dips_ (marked by
arrows).[22] Both the low gap energy and the non-conventional shape of
the tunneling spectra suggest the existence of another, larger SC gap
Δ_(L), responsible for the superconductivity in the bulk Ba₈Si₄₆, that
is, hidden in the tunneling data for some reasons to determine. Hence,
we have now to understand the origin(s) of the small gap Δ_(S) we do
observe in TS and get some insight on a hypothetical hidden larger gap
Δ_(L).

In the following section we discuss two phenomena that indeed lead to
the appearance of an additional (secondary) gap in superconductors. The
first idea is to consider that two (or more) electronic bands are
involved in superconductivity, each being characterized by a SC gap and
thus, Ba₈Si₄₆ is a multiple-gap superconductor. The second one is to
suggest the existence of an intrinsically nonsuperconducting "dead"
layer at the surface of Ba₈Si₄₆ to which the superconductivity is
induced by proximity effect to the bulk.

## III Two-gap superconductivity vs proximity effect

The necessity of a precise description of realistic SCs stimulated an
important piece of theoretical effort. In 1959 Suhl, Matthias, and
Walker (SMW) (Ref. 23) extended the one-band isotropic BCS model to the
case of two energy bands. In their simple heuristic model each band has
its own BCS Hamiltonian and a coupling term that scatters pairs from one
band to another is added in order to couple both bands. This coupling is
described by the partial Hamiltonian,

V₁₂∑_(k ≠ i^(′))c_(k↑)⁺c_(−k↓)⁺d_(−i^(′)↓)d_(k^(′)↑) + d_(k↓)⁺d_(−k↓)⁻c_(−k^(′)↓)c_(k^(′)↑),

where c⁺, c, d⁺, d are the corresponding creation and annihilation
operators in each band and V₁₂ is the interband pair coupling. Such a
model leads to a two-band SC that exhibits two distinct gaps in its
excitation spectrum, Δ₁ and Δ₂ that are solutions of the self-consistent
equations,

Δ₁[1 − V₁₁N₁F(Δ₁)] = Δ₂V₁₂N₂F(Δ₂),

Δ₂[1 − V₂₂N₂F(Δ₂)] = Δ₁V₁₂N₁F(Δ₁),
(1)

where

$$F(\Delta)=\int_{0}^{\hbar\omega_{D}}d\epsilon\tanh\left[\frac{\sqrt{\epsilon^{ 2}+\Delta^{2}}}{2k_{B}T}\right]/\sqrt{\epsilon^{2}+\Delta^{2}}.$$
(2)

N_(i)=N_(i)(E_(F)), i=1, 2, is the normal state DOS at the Fermi level
in each band. The terms V₁₁ and V₂₂ are the usual BCS pair coupling in
each band. The corresponding density of states is a weighted sum of two
BCS spectra,

$$N_{S}(E)=\sum_{i=1,2}N_{i}(E_{F})\text{Re}\frac{|E|}{\sqrt{E^{2}-\Delta_{i}^{2 }}}.$$
(3)

In tunneling experiments the tunneling probability is k dependent, hence
the amount of tunneling electrons should be ponderated by an average
tunneling probability to each band. Combining both the SMW model and
tunneling selectivity, we shall expect an effective tunneling density of
states should of the form,

$$N_{S}(E)=\sum_{i=1,2}W_{i}N_{i}(E_{F})\text{Re}\frac{|E|}{\sqrt{E^{2}-\Delta_{i }^{2}}},$$
(4)

where W_(i) accounts for the k-averaged tunneling probability toward
each band.

Let us point out that such a tunneling density of states [Eq. (4)] is
nothing but a weighted sum of two BCS DOSs: It neither thinners the
quasiparticle peaks nor generates the dips in SIS spectra. Thus SMW
model fails to describe our experimental data. Nevertheless, the
two-band model can be extended to give a more realistic description of
multiple-band superconductivity. The first improvement consists in
taking into account the interband quasiparticle scattering, nonaccounted
for in SMW model. Schopol & Schamberg (S&S) (Ref. 24) showed that the
quasiparticle scattering in a two-band SMW superconductors leads to
energy-dependent gap functions Δ_(i)(E) that depend essentially on the
interband scattering times τ₁₂∼1/Γ₁₂ and τ₂₁∼1/Γ₂₁. The detailed balance
equation requires that N₁Γ₁₂=N₂Γ₂₁. The gap functions are solutions of
the coupled equations,

$$\Delta_{1}(E)=\frac{\Delta_{1}^{0}+\Gamma_{12}\Delta_{2}(E)/\sqrt{\Delta_{2}^{2 }(E)-(E-i\Gamma_{21})^{2}}}{1+\Gamma_{12}/\sqrt{[\Delta_{2}^{2}(E)-(E-i\Gamma_{21 })^{2}]}},$$

$$\Delta_{2}(E)=\frac{\Delta_{2}^{0}+\Gamma_{21}\Delta_{1}(E)/\sqrt{\Delta_{1}^{2 }(E)-(E-i\Gamma_{12})^{2}}}{1+\Gamma_{21}/\sqrt{[\Delta_{1}^{2}(E)-(E-i\Gamma_{12})^{2}]}},$$
(5)

where Δ₁⁰ and Δ₂⁰ are the gaps obtained from the self-consistency
equations,

$$\Delta_{i}^{0}=\lambda_{ii}\int_{0}^{\hbar\omega_{i}}dE\tanh\left[\frac{E}{2k_{B}T}\right]\text{Re}\left[\frac{\Delta_{i}(E)}{\sqrt{E^{2}-\Delta_{i}^{2}(E)}}\right]$$

where λ_(ii)=V_(ii)N_(i) are the intraband electron-phonon coupling
constants, while λ_(jj)=$V_{ij}\sqrt{N_{j}}$ is the interband
electron-phonon coupling constant of the SMW model.

The partial density of state with the energy-dependent gap functions are
given by

$$N_{\text{SI}}(E)=N_{i}(E_{F})\text{Re}\frac{|E|}{\sqrt{E^{2}-\Delta_{i}^{2}(E)}}.$$
(7)

As shown in Ref. 24 the quasiparticle scattering leads to rounded
quasiparticle peaks. In addition, bumps appear in the two partial
densities of states. Such structures were indeed observed in MgB₂ and
perfectly described in the framework of S&S model by Schmidt _et al.[8]_

Experimentally, the tunneling experiments probe the electronic
properties at the very surface of studied samples, which may, in
principle, differ from their bulk counterpart. Indeed, the surface is a
defect that may affect the local density of states. First, the
translational invariance perpendicular to the surface is broken, which
may lead to the formation of particular surface states, such as Shockley
or Tamm states,[25, 26] that do not exist in the bulk. This may also
give rise to some reconstruction and appearance of dangling bonds that
may induce a particular electronic structure, different from the bulk,
in a thin surface layer. The surface is also the place where oxidation
and hydroxylation take place in the first stage. Hence, in many cases
the surface electronic properties are not identical to the bulk ones and
surface sensitive techniques might be flawed. In the case where a
multigap superconductivity is presumed, this is a very stringent
problem, since the equations of the energy-dependent gap functions [Eq.
(5)] of a two-gap superconductor are _formally identical_ to the ones
derived for the proximity effect by McMillan.[27]

In his treatment of superconducting proximity effect between two
metallic films, McMillan started from two initial BCS gaps in each band
D₁⁰ and D₂⁰ and added a Bardeen-type tunneling coupling between both
metals, leading to coupling energies Γ₁₂ and Γ₂₁ accounting for the
quasiparticle scattering from one metal to the other. Here the detailed
balance impose N₁d₁Γ₁₂=N₂d₂Γ₂₁, where d₁ and d₂ are the thickness of the
two films that are supposed thin with respect to the coherence length
ξ:d₁, d₂≪ξ. With these assumptions one recovers the Eq. (5) of the
energy-dependent gaps Δ₁(E) and Δ₂(E) of the S&S two-gap model.

This analogy between proximity effect and two-gap superconductivity is
due to the fact that quasiparticle scattering in real space or
reciprocal space are described by the same way when the film thickness,
where proximity effect takes place, is much thinner than the
characteristic scale ξ. The similarity between multigap
superconductivity and proximity effect is even more profound since the
McMillan proximity model, that considers quasiparticle scattering, and
the SMW two-gap model, that suppose Cooper-pair scattering, have strong
similarities. Indeed, Noce and Maritato[28] demonstrated that assuming a
simplified solution of the McMillan proximity model with
nonenergy-dependent gap function Δ_(i)(E)=Δ_(i) they recovered the same
self-consistent gap equations than in the SMW model [Eq. (1)]. Note
however that SMW and McMillan models differ in one important point: in
SMW a pure interband pair coupling V₁₂ leads to superconductivity even
with zero intraband coupling V₁₁=V₂₂=0, while in the McMillan proximity
model, a quasiparticle coupling between two nonsuperconducting metals
would not induce superconductivity.

The formal identity between the S&S reciprocal-space two-gap
superconductivity and McMillan’s real-space proximity effect strongly
complicates the interpretation of TS data. However, one can exploit the
fact that the ratio Γ₁₂/Γ₂₁, constant and equal to N₂/N₁ in S&S
approach, is thickness dependent in the McMillan proximity model:
Γ₁₂/Γ₂₁=$\frac{N_{d1}}{N_{d1}d_{1}}$. Hence, in the proximity case, the
Γ₁₂/Γ₂₁ ratio should vary from sample to sample and from one location to
another depending on the particular thickness of the proximity layer.

In Figs. 4(a) and 4(b) we show the partial DOSs $N_{\rm{SI}}(E)$
calculated in the framework of S&S two-gap model for an intrinsically
nonsuperconducting band i=1: D_(i)⁰=0 meV, coupled to an intrinsically
superconducting band i=2: D₂⁰ = 1.3 meV. Different curves corresponding
to the coupling parameters Γ₁₂ varying from 0.5 to 15 meV with a
constant ratio Γ₁₂/Γ₂₁=10, that corresponds to the typical range of
parameters found for Ba₈Si₄₆ (see below). These calculated densities of
states could also represent the proximity case between a metallic film
(i=1) in close contact with a superconducting film i=2, in the framework
of McMillan model. As a result of the interband (or intermetal)
quasiparticle scattering, a gap D_(S) is induced in the first band (or
proximity layer) where it does not exist at zero coupling. The DOS shape
in the first band (or proximity layer) is very peculiar [Fig. 4(a)]: the
quasiparticle peaks are broadened and there are some shoulders at the
position of the large gap peaks. This peculiar shape is responsible for
the appearance of dips in SIS spectra. This is illustrated in Fig. 4(c)
where simulated SIS tunneling spectra supposing that both electrodes
exhibit the small induced gap of Fig. 4(a). The key point is that there
is a clear signature of the presence of a (hidden) larger gap whatever
the phenomenon considered. It features as a dip in SIS spectra for
strong enough couplings. The curve corresponding to Γ₁=5 meV shows that
the dips may even become negative in the SIS spectra while no dips are
present in the initial DOS.

In the large gap band (or superconducting film) the initially pure BCS
DOS evolves with the coupling [Fig. 4(b)]: a minigap (often called
"excitation gap") appears at the same position that the induced gap in
the first band as shown by the red arrow in Fig. 4(b). Thus, different
apparent gaps appear in the model. The excitation gap, that corresponds
to the excitations of lowest energies, is close to the peak-to-peak
value of the small induced gap that will be defined as 2Δ_(S). The
second important gap is defined as peak-to-peak value

Figure 4: (Color online) Partial DOSs in the band 1 in (a) and 2 in (b)
calculated within the McMillan model with Δ₁⁰=0, Δ₂⁰=1.3 meV, Γ₁=0.5, 1,
2, 5, and 15 meV and Γ₂=Γ₁/10. (c) Evolution of the excitation gap and
apparent gaps Δ_(L), Δ_(S) with the scattering rate Γ₁, corresponding to
(a) and (b). In (c), simulated conductance spectra at 2.3 K are shown
for a SIS junction with both electrodes exhibiting the DOS of the small
gap band shown in (a). The plot (d) shows the evolution of the
excitation gap and the peak-to-peak gaps Δ_(S) and Δ_(L) in the small
gap and large gap band, as a function of the coupling Γ₁.

2Δ_(L) in the large gap band. The evolution of the excitation gap, of
the induced small gap Δ_(S) and of the leading gap Δ_(L) as a function
of the coupling parameter Γ₁₂ is presented in Fig. 4(d). Both gaps Δ_(S)
and Δ_(L) vary strongly at moderate Γ₁₂ and reach the same asymptotic
value for very large coupling, where one recovers a simple one-gap BCS
DOS as expected from the Anderson’s theorem.

## IV IV. Fits to the data

In Figs. 5 and 6 we present fitted SIS tunneling spectra of
Ba₈Si₄₆-NbSe₂ and Ba₈Si₄₆-Ba₈Si₄₆ junctions, respectively. The Fig. 7(a)
shows the temperature dependence of the later. The enhanced energy
resolution of SIS spectroscopy revealed the apparent gap
$\Delta_{\rm Ba_{8}Si_{46}}$ to vanish exactly at the T_(c) of the bulk
material [Fig. 7(b)], thus evidencing an intimate connection of the
observed gap to the bulk SC. The SIS fits using Schopol &
Scharnberg-McMillan equations [Eq. (5)], shown as solid lines in Figs.
5-7, reproduce in fine details the shape of the SIS tunneling
conductance data, with different counterclockwise materials and at
various temperatures [red (gray) lines in Fig. 7]. A perfect agreement
is also achieved when fitting SIN spectra (solid lines in Fig. 1). In
the case of NbSe₂ as a counterclockwise(Fig. 5), the fits were done
assuming the tunneling DOS taken from Rodrigo & Viera [29] who proceeded
to a very fine measurement of the tunneling DOS of NbSe₂ by SIS
spectroscopy with a Pb tip.

By analyzing the fitting parameters of different tunneling spectra we
noticed the following common features: (1) for all spectra, the initial
BCS gap in the band i=1 is Δ₁⁰≈ 0 meV while Δ₂⁰=1.3 ± 0.1 meV. (2) The
interband scattering parameters, Γ₁₂ and Γ₂₁, strongly vary from one
junction to another, but their ratio remains almost fixed Γ₁₂/Γ₂₁∼ 10 as
shown in Fig. 8. (3) For most of the studied junctions, the tunneling
contribution of the band i=1 was W₁=1 and that of i=2 was W₂=0, i.e., we
needed only the partial density of state of the small gap N_(S1)(E) to
fit the tunneling spectra.

Thus, assuming Γ₁₂=1Γ₁₂/10 only two variable parameters remained, Δ₂⁰
and Γ₁₂. Moreover, the fits of the temperature-dependent spectra in Fig.
7(a) were generated considering only one free parameter, Δ₂⁰(T), the
second Γ₁₂=6 meV being evaluated once for all at T=2.2 K and kept fixed
up to the critical temperature.

Let us now discuss the physics behind such a surprisingly nice agreement
between the data and fits, and analyze the consequences of the
above-mentioned common features. The condition Δ₁⁰≈ 0 meV implies that
the superconductivity in the band i=1 (or in the surface layer, within
McMillan hypothesis) is fully induced: A small gap opens in N_(S1)(E)
due to the coupling with the leading superconducting band i=2 where the
pairing amplitude Δ₂⁰≈ 1.3 ± 0.1 meV is found close to the value 1.4 meV
estimated from specific-heat measurements.[12] The observed fluctuations
of the induced small gap Δ_(S) from one junction to another, on the
order of ±0.2 meV, are attributed to the variations in both the
scattering rates Γ_(i) and the pairing amplitude of the initial leading
gap Δ₂⁰.

While at this point we cannot discriminate between two possible origins
of our observations (a two-gap scenario or a simple proximity effect in
a metallic surface layer), we note that two-gap superconductivity has
already been inferred in Ba₈Si₄₆ by Lortz _et al.[12]_ on the basis of
specific-heat measurements. Nevertheless, there is a large discrepancy
between the small gap measured by tunneling spectroscopy Δ_(S)=1 meV and
the one determined by specific-heat measurements Δ_(S)=0.35 meV.
However, a larger scattering due

Figure 6: (Color online) Typical Ba₈Si₄₆ vs Ba₈Si₄₆ SIS tunneling
conductance spectra [red (gray) triangles and blue (black) circles]
observed at T=2.2 K. In some junctions a negative tunneling conductance
is measured at the dip positions (arrows). Solid lines: best SIS fits
with Schopol & Scharnberg-McMillan model obtained with the following
parameters: for the red (gray) curve Δ₁⁰=0.0 meV, Γ₁₂=2.6 meV, Δ₂⁰=1.1
meV, and Γ₂₁=0.18 meV; and for the blue (black) curve Δ₁⁰=0.0 meV,
Γ₁₂=3.7 meV, Δ₂⁰=1.23 meV, and Γ₂₁=0.40 meV.

to a enhanced disorder near the crystal surface may easily explain the
differences between these two measurements of the small gap in Ba₈Si₄₆.
Indeed, the value Δ_(S)=0.35 meV can be obtained within S&S model
considering the Δ₂⁰= 1.3 meV we found together with a smaller Γ₁₂= 0.6
meV for the bulk and the ratio Γ₁/Γ₂ = N₂(E_(F))/N₁(E_(F))= 10 estimated
from the ratio of the density of states determined by specific-heat
measurements.

We note that broad peaks and dips were also observed in high-T_(c) SCs
and attributed to the coupling with a collective excitation mode.[30,
31, 32] Nevertheless, the dips predicted by S&S model are not equivalent
to those observed in cuprates. First of all, Ba₈Si₄₆ is not a strongly
correlated material and strong electron-electron correlations are not
expected there. Second, in the cuprate case the dips are directly
present in the SIN TS spectra, while in S&S model they are so weak in
the DOS, that they only appear in SIS spectra due to a convolution
effect in the tunneling integral.

## V V. Analysis within S&S two-band model

The fit to the data with S&S model using Eq. (5) leads to the following
gap parameters Δ₁⁰≃ 0 and Δ₂⁰= 1.3. With such gap values the
self-consistency equations in the framework of S&S model [Eq. (6)] lead
necessarily to λ₁₁= V₁₁N₁= 0 and λ₁₂= V₁₂/N₁N₂= 0. Assuming that the Ba
phonon rattling modes are the principal contributors to the SC
pairing[12, 23] we take a cutoff frequency of ℏω= 7 meV that leads to
λ₂₂= V₂₂N₂=0.42. This value corresponds to a rather strong-coupling
regime but is however quite smaller than λ_(e, ph)≃ 0.7 obtained by
Lortz _et al.[12]_ This is not surprising since we assumed a rather
simplified pairing potential.

In the framework of the simple SMW model, Δ₁⁰= 0 would mean that the
small gap is completely closed. However this is not the case
experimentally. Indeed, a small gap opens in band 1, and assuming a
two-gap scenario, this can only be due to the interband quasiparticle
scattering described by the S&S model. In order to describe the
interband scattering, we assumed two free parameters Γ₁₂ and Γ₂₁. In
agreement with what we expected for a two-gap superconductor we found a
clear linear correlation between Γ₁₂ and Γ₂₁ as evidenced in Fig. 8 with
Γ₁₂/Γ₂₁∼ 10. This result gives a very strong argument for S&S two-gap
scenario: The interband scattering events 1→ 2 and 2→ 1 should be equal
and therefore, the condition Γ₁₂/Γ₂₁=N₂(E_(F))/N₁(E_(F)) must be
fulfilled.[24] Moreover, we find the ∼10, in a very good agreement with
the value N₂(E_(F))/N₁(E_(F))= 9 determined from specific-heat
measurements,[12] that strongly supports our model. In the framework of
the band scenario, the variations in Γ₁₂ and Γ₂₁ may result of the
specific scattering due to the local surface disorder, realized for each
tunnel junction.

It is not fully established for the moment why the spectra revealing
directly the large gap are so rare. In the case of MgB₂ a similar
statistics was observed[34] and attributed to the low probability of
tunneling into the two-dimensional π band. It is not clear if such an
assumption holds for Ba₈Si₄₆. We know however that in Ba₈Si₄₆ most of
the DOS belongs to Ba-Si hybridized states located inside the Si
cages.[18, 19] It couples well to Ba phonon rattling modes that
contribute to the SC pairing.[12, 33] Hence, we may speculate that the
electronic states responsible for the superconductivity are somehow
confined inside the clathrate cages, and the amplitude of the
corresponding evanescent waves outside the material is

Figure 7: (Color online) (a) Temperature dependence of the Ba₈Si₄₆ vs
Ba₈Si₄₆ SIS spectra in black and their fits in red (gray) using School &
Schamberg-McMillan model. The spectra are shifted for clarity. In (b)
temperature dependence of the peak-to-peak gap extracted from Ba₈Si₄₆ vs
Ba₈Si₄₆ SIS spectra.

thus weak, leading to a tiny contribution into the tunneling.
Consequently, most of the tunneling current would come from the
outer-cage Si orbitals where the superconductivity is purely induced.

In the search for a direct evidence of the large gap Δ_(L), we studied
several tens of Ba₃Si₄₆ samples. We expected that the surface defects
such as large steps, protrusions, holes would provide various tunneling
conditions. In some measurements we indeed observed very different still
reproducible SIS spectra [red (gray) curve in Fig. 1(c)] while keeping
the tunneling conditions unchanged. They show no dips, as expected for
SIS spectra revealing the large gap, Fig. 3(b). Furthermore, the gap
energy Δ_(L)^(∞)1.4 meV corresponding to these spectra is in a good
agreement with the large gap deduced from specific-heat measurements by
Lortz _et al._[12]

## VI Analysis within the proximity model

As previously discussed, the McMillan equations describing the proximity
effect are formally equivalent to S&S two-band model with interband
quasiparticle scattering. Hence, the nice agreement between the TS data
and the fits using Eq. (5) may also be interpreted in the framework of
the proximity scenario, since the STS data may be affected by a surface
layer, even in the situation where the sample were broken in UHV.
Indeed, the crystal surface itself is a topological defect with respect
to the bulk material, due to the crystal symmetry breaking. In some
cases, it could even result in a new electronic band, present only at
the surface [as it is the case of Cu(111) or Ag(111), for instance]. The
superconductivity could be induced to this band by the coupling with the
bulk SC, and thus the reduced gap Δ_(S) could, in principle, represent
the surface state SC gap which would not extend to the bulk. Such
hypothesis is generally valid for the surface of any SC and cannot be
ruled out even for _in situ_ prepared junctions.

In the McMillan model the ratio Γ₁₂/Γ₂₁ is thickness dependent:
Γ₁₂/Γ₂₁$\frac{N_{d}!}{N_{1}d!}$. Hence, this ratio should vary from
sample to sample depending on the particular thickness of the proximity
layer which is not the case as shown in Fig. 8. A constant ratio could
only be explained assuming a constant thickness proximity layer inherent
to the material. Nevertheless, with such an inherent, intrinsic, surface
layer it seems difficult to understand the variations of 1 order of
magnitude of the absolute value of Γ_(ij). In the McMillan scenario the
absolute value of the coupling depends on the transparency of the
normal/superconductor interface. Then if the normal surface layer is
intrinsic to the material, one could wonder where the variations on the
interface transparency come from.

Before concluding, we note that the McMillan model is not perfectly
appropriate for our purpose since it was devoted to the case of two thin
film (d ≪ ξ) in close contact while in our case the hypothetic non-SC
metallic surface layer would be connected to a bulk superconductor. This
problem of the local density of states in a dirty normal metal connected
to a superconductor has been studied by Belzig _et al._[35] using Usadel
formalism. The more general case of the calculation of the DOS at the
surface of a mesoscopic proximity layer from the clean to the dirty
limit in the proximity layer has also been addressed by Pilgram _et
al._[36] using the Eilenberger formalism but these works are well beyond
the scope of the present paper. Nevertheless, in our case the MacMillan
equations may in fact be used considering an effective finite thickness
of the superconductor on the order of ξ or a diffusion length
$\sqrt{\xi}l$ depending on the mean-free path l in the bulk Ba₃Si₄₆.

## VII Conclusions

Finally, we have studied the quasiparticle excitation spectrum of the
superconductor Ba₃Si₄₆ by local tunneling spectroscopy. Owing
high-energy resolution achieved in SIS junctions we resolved fine
spectroscopic features that cannot be accounted for by BCS. The SIS
spectra evidence the existence of two distinct energy gaps, Δ_(L)=1.3 ±
0.1 meV and Δ_(S)=0.9 ± 0.2 meV, that are interpreted in terms of a
two-band superconductivity. The main conclusion is that the tunneling
spectra in Ba₃Si₄₆ are characterized by a leading gap of the bulk
material, Δ_(L): 2Δ_(L)/kT_(c)=3.7 ± 0.3 and by another, smaller
coupling-dependent gap Δ_(S), reflecting a superconductivity induced in
an intrinsically nonsuperconducting electronic band. Because of the
extreme sensitivity of the tunneling spectroscopy to the electronic
properties at the very surface, the proximity origin of the small gap
Δ_(S) is not completely excluded. It does not alter, however, the result
concerning the energy value and the bulk superconducting origin of the
large gap Δ_(L).

The methodology depicted in the paper may certainly be applied to other
multigap superconductors. We showed that the excitation spectra of
two-gap superconductors are particularly sensitive to disorder, in
contrast with one-band BCS superconductors. Specifically, the amplitude
of the smaller (induced) gap and the shape of the spectra strongly
depend on the sample quality. Moreover, bulk sensitive methods and
surface sensitive ones may give rather different values for the small
gap since the quasiparticle scattering at the surface is usually
stronger than that in the bulk.

## References

* [1] J. Bardeen, L. N. Cooper, and J. R. Schrieffer, Phys. Rev.
**108**, 1175 (1957). * [2] J. C. F. Brock, Solid State Commun. **7**,
1789 (1969). * [3] V. Guritanu, W. Goldacker, F. Bouquet, Y. Wang, R.
Lortz, G. Goll, and A. Junod, Phys. Rev. B **70**, 184526 (2004), and
references therein. * [4] L. Yun Lung Shen, N. M. Senozan, and N. E.
Phillips, Phys. Rev. Lett. **14**, 1025 (1965). * [5] F. Bouquet, Y.
Wang, R. A. Fisher, D. G. Hinks, J. D. Jorgensen, A. Junod, and N. E.
Phillips, Europhys. Lett. **56**, 856 (2001). * [6] F. Giubileo, D.
Roditchev, W. Sacks, R. Lamy, D. X. Thanh, J. Klein, S. Miraglia, D.
Fruchart, J. Marcus, and P. Monod, Phys. Rev. Lett. **87**, 177008
(2001). * [7] G. Rubio-Bollinger, H. Suderow, and S. Vieira, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **86**, 5582 (2001); P. Szabo, P. Samuely, J. Kacmarcik, T. Klein,
J. Marcus, D. Fruchart, S. Miraglia, C. Marcenat, and A. G. M. Jansen,
_ibid._ **87**, 137005 (2001). * [8] H. Schmidt, J. F. Zasadzinski, K.
E. Gray, and D. G. Hinks, Physica C **385**, 221 (2003). * [9] B. Bergk,
V. Petzold, H. Rosner, S.-L. Drechsler, M. Bartkowiak, O. Ignatchik, A.
D. Bianchi, I. Sheikin, P. C. Canfield, and J. Wosnitza, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **100**, 257004 (2008), and references therein. * [10] C. Dubois,
A. Petrovic, G. Santi, C. Berthod, A. A. Manuel, M. Decroux, O. Fischer,
M. Potel, and R. Chevrel, Phys. Rev. B **75**, 104501 (2007). * [11] I.
Guillamon, H. Suderow, S. Vieira, L. Cairo, P. Diener, and P. Rodiere,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **101**, 166407 (2008). * [12] R. Lortz, R. Viennois,
A. Petrovic, Y. Wang, P. Toulemonde, C. Meingast, M. M. Koza, H. Mutka,
A. Bossak, and A. San Miguel, Phys. Rev. B **77**, 224507 (2008). * [13]
A. San Miguel and P. Toulemonde, High Press. Res. **25**, 159 (2005). *
[14] P. Toulemonde, Ch. Adessi, X. Blase, A. San Miguel, and J. L.
Tholence, Phys. Rev. B **71**, 094504 (2005). * [15] H. Kawaji, H. O.
Horie, S. Yamanaka, and M. Ishikawa, Phys. Rev. Lett. **74**, 1427
(1995). * [16] S. Yamanaka, E. Enishi, H. Fukuoka, and M. Yasukawa,
Inorg. Chem. **39**, 56 (2000). * [17] D. Connetable, V. Timoshevskii,
B. Masenelli, J. Beille, J. Marcus, B. Barbara, A. M. Saitta, G.-M.
Rignanese, P. Melinon, S. Yamanaka, and X. Blase, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**91**, 247001 (2003). * [18] K. Tanigaki, T. Shimizu, K. M. Itoh, J.
Teraoka, Y. Moritomo, and S. Yamanaka, Nature Mater. **2**, 653
(2003). * [19] P. Toulemonde, A. San Miguel, A. Merlen, R. Viennois, S.
Le Floch, C. Adessi, X. Blase, and J. L. Tholence, J. Phys. Chem. Solids
**67**, 1117 (2006). * [20] K. Ichimura, K. Nomura, H. Fukuoka, and S.
Yamanaka, Physica C **388-389**, 577 (2003). * [21] A. Kohen, Th.
Proslier, T. Cren, Y. Noat, W. Sacks, H. Berger, and D. Roditchev, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **97**, 027001 (2006). * [22] Note that Ba₈Si₄₆-Ba₈Si₄₆
junctions do not contain any host material (as it is the case of
Ba₈Si₄₆-NbSe₂ junctions). Thus, the observed deviations from BCS
behavior are intrinsic to Ba₈Si₄₆. * [23] H. Suhl, B. T. Matthias, and
L. R. Walker, Phys. Rev. Lett. **3**, 552 (1959). * [24] N. Schopohl and
K. Scharnberg, Solid State Commun. **22**, 371 (1977). * [25] W.
Shockley, Phys. Rev. **56**, 317 (1939). * [26] I. Tamm, Phys. Z.
Sowjetunion **1**, 733 (1932). * [27] W. L. McMillan, Phys. Rev.
**175**, 537 (1968). * [28] C. Noce and L. Maritato, Phys. Rev. B
**40**, 734 (1989). * [29] J. G. Rodrigo and S. Vieira, Physica C
**404**, 306 (2004). * [30] J. F. Zasadzinski, L. Ozyuzer, N. Miyakawa,
K. E. Gray, D. G. Hinks, and C. Kendziora, Phys. Rev. Lett. **87**,
067005 (2001); L. Ozyuzer, J. F. Zasadzinski, N. Miyakawa, C. Kendziora,
J. Sha, D. G. Hinks, and K. E. Gray, Physica C **341-348**, 927 (2000);
P. Romano, L. Ozyuzer, Z. Yusof, C. Kurter, and J. F. Zasadzinski, Phys.
Rev. B **73**, 092514 (2006). * [31] T. Cren, D. Roditchev, W. Sacks,
and J. Klein, Europhys. Lett. **52**, 203 (2000). * [32] N. Jenkins, Y.
Fasano, C. Berthod, I. Maggio-Aprile, A. Piriou, E. Giannini, B. W.
Hoogenboom, C. Hess, T. Cren, and O. Fischer, Phys. Rev. Lett. **103**,
227001 (2009). * [33] J. S. Tse, T. Iitaka, T. Kume, H. Shimizu, K.
Parlinski, H. Fukuoka, and S. Yamanaka, Phys. Rev. B **72**, 155441
(2005). * [34] F. Giubileo, D. Roditchev, W. Sacks, R. Lamy, and J.
Klein, Europhys. Lett. **58**, 764 (2002). * [35] W. Belzig, C. Bruder,
and G. Schon, Phys. Rev. B **54**, 9443 (1996). * [36] S. Pilgram, W.
Belzig, and C. Bruder, Phys. Rev. B **62**, 12462 (2000).
