# Superconductivity in rubidium-substituted Ba_(1 − x)Rb_(x)Ti₂Sb₂O

Fabian von Rohr,^(1, 2, *) Reinhard Nesper,² Andreas Schilling

vonrohr@physik.uzh.ch Physik-Institut der Universitat Zurich,
Winterthurerstrasse 190, CH-8057 Zurich, Switzerland Laboratory of
Inorganic Chemistry, ETH Zurich, Wolfgang-Pauli-Strasse 10, CH-8093
Zurich, Switzerland

Received 6 November 2013; revised manuscript received 16 January 2014;
published 7 March 2014

###### Abstract

We report on the synthesis and the physical properties of
Ba_(1 − x)Rb_(x)Ti₂Sb₂O (x ≤ 0.4) by x-ray diffraction, superconducting
quantum interference device magnetometry, resistivity, and specific-heat
measurements. Upon hole doping by substituting Ba with Rb, we find
superconductivity with a maximum $T_{\rm c}=5.4$ K. Simultaneously, the
charge-density-wave transition temperature is strongly reduced from
$T_{\rm CDW}\approx 55$ K in the parent compound BaTi₂Sb₂O and seems to
be suppressed for x ≥ 0.2. The bulk character of the superconducting
state for the optimally doped sample (x = 0.2) is confirmed by the
occurrence of a well developed discontinuity in the specific heat at
$T_{\rm c}$, with $\Delta C/T_{\rm c}\approx 22$ mJ/mol K², as well as a
large Meissner-shielding fraction of ≈40

pacs: DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.89.094505 PACS number(s): 74.62.Bf,
74.25.Op, 74.25.Jb, 74.25.Dw + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL REVIEW B
**89**, 094505 (2014)

## I Introduction

Density waves (DWs) are collective states of broken symmetry that arise
from electronic instabilities that are often present in highly
anisotropic structures. In some cases they compete with
superconductivity, which is an another collective electronic state. The
emergence of superconductivity in iron arsenides has attracted great
interest in the physical properties of transition metal pnictides in
general. In most of these materials, superconductivity occurs in
proximity to a spin-density-wave (SDW) transition, and is found to
exhibit unconventional properties (see, e.g., Refs. [1, 2]). Until now,
several systems have been investigated in which superconductivity
emerges upon complete or partial suppression of charge-density-wave
(CDW) ordering, such as 2H-NbSe₂[3], Ba_(1 − x)K_(x)BiO₃[4, 5], and
Cu_(x)TiSe₂[6]. Likewise, the formation of CDW order has been observed
in the normal state of superconducting YBa₂Cu₃O_(6.67)[7].

Most recently, BaTi₂Sb₂O has been found to intrinsically host both
distinct states of broken symmetry, showing a CDW ordering transition at
$T_{\rm CDW}\approx 55$ K, as well as a transition to superconductivity
at $T_{\rm c}\approx 1$ K [8]. BaTi₂Sb₂O belongs to a large family of
stacked, layered titanium oxide pnictide compounds. In these materials
the nominal valence of titanium is Ti³⁺ with its 3d orbitals singly
occupied. In this 3d¹ configuration, Ti is surrounded octahedrally by O
and Sb, forming a Ti₂O square sublattice. From a structural and chemical
perspective, these Ti₂O layers can be interpreted as the 3d¹
anticonfiguration of the 3d⁹ CuO₂ planes in the cuprates.

Upon substitution of barium by sodium or potassium, or of antimony by
bismuth or tin, in BaTi₂Sb₂O, the CDW ordering temperature $T_{\rm CDW}$
is lowered, while superconductivity reaches a maximum $T_{\rm c}$ of up
to 5.5 K at substitution levels around 15 mol

In this paper we will show how superconductivity and CDW ordering evolve
in Ba_(1 − x)Rb_(x)Ti₂Sb₂O as a function of the substitution of barium
by rubidium. We will evidence that the CDW ordering transition
$T_{\rm CDW}$ is continuously lowered and eventually suppressed with
increasing rubidium content, while the transition temperature to
superconductivity $T_{\rm c}$ is increased, reaching a maximum
$T_{\rm c,max}=5.4$ K for x = 0.2 (in specific-heat measurements). Our
results support that BaTi₂Sb₂O is a versatile model system for the
investigation of the competition and coexistence of conventional
superconductivity and CDW ordering.

## II Experiment

Solid-state reactions were employed to synthesize polycrystalline
samples of Ba_(1 − x)Rb_(x)Ti₂Sb₂O with x = 0, 0.02, 0.05, 0.1, 0.15,
0.2, 0.25, 0.3, and 0.4. BaO (99.99

X-ray powder diffraction measurements were performed using a Stoe STADIP
diffractometer (Cu K_(a₁) radiation, λ = 1.54051 A, Ge monochromator).
Rietveld refinements and profile fits were performed using the fullprof
program [15]. The magnetic properties were studied using a Quantum
Design magnetic properties measurement system (MPMS XL) equipped with a
reciprocating sample option (RSO). The platelike samples were placed in
parallel to the external magnetic field in order to minimize
demagnetization effects. Specific-heat and resistivity measurements were
performed with a Quantum Design physical property measurement system
(PPMS). For the resistivity measurements, a standard four-probe
technique was employed with 50 μm diameter gold wires attached with
silver paint. The applied current for these measurements was I = 1.5 mA.
Specific-heat measurements were performed with the Quantum Design
heat-capacity option using a relaxation technique.

## III Results and Discussion

In Fig. 1(a) we show the x-ray diffraction pattern at ambient
temperature for the sample of nominal composition
Ba_(0.7)Rb_(0.3)Ti₂Sb₂O (x = 0.3), together with the crystal structure
of the compound in the inset. All compounds of the
Ba_(1 − x)Rb_(x)Ti₂Sb₂O (x ≤ 0.4) solid solution were found to belong to
the same crystal structure, which is isopointal to the CeCr₂Si₂C-type
structure (P4/mmm). All compounds of the solid solution are air
sensitive and for all investigated dopings the obtained XRD patterns
show phase purities larger than ≥90

The resistivities ρ(T) in a temperature range of T = 1.8-100 K are shown
in Fig. 2 for x = 0, 0.05, 0.1, and 0.2. All compounds are metals with
resistivities ρ(100 K) varying from 0.057 mΩ cm⁻¹ for the parent
compound to 0.575 mΩ cm⁻¹ for x = 0.2. The parent compound (x = 0) shows
a distinct kink in the resistivity at $T_{\rm CDW}$ = 55 K, which has
earlier been attributed to a CDW transition [14]. This phase transition
temperature $T_{\rm CDW}$ is strongly reduced and eventually suppressed
with increasing rubidium content. For a relatively small doping of x =
0.05, the CDW transition is already lowered to 34 K, whereas the
critical temperature is increased by more than 2 K to $T_{\rm c}$ = 3.7
K. Taking the absolute value of the resistivity as a measure for the
metallicity of a sample, we can state that the increase of the
superconducting transition $T_{\rm c}$ and the decrease and subsequent
suppression of the CDW ordering temperature $T_{\rm CDW}$ go along with
a decrease in metallicity. A similar trend for ρ(T) has been reported
for Na- and Bi-substituted BaTi₂Sb₂O, and it has

Figure 1: (Color online) (a) The powder x-ray diffraction (XRD) pattern
at ambient temperature for the sample of nominal composition
Ba_(0.7)Rb_(0.3)Ti₂Sb₂O (x = 0.3). The crystal structure of the compound
is shown in the inset. The vertical dark green lines show the
theoretical Bragg peak positions for this phase. The blue pattern on the
bottom is the difference plot between the theoretical pattern and the
observed intensities. (b) Enlarged XRD data around the (111) reflections
as functions of increasing x, demonstrating the change in the lattice
parameters with Rb content. The dotted line is a guide to the eye. (c)
Cell parameters for the different compositions used in this study. The
dashed line represents an idealized linear change of the cell
parameters.

Figure 2: (Color online) Resistivities of Ba_(1 − x)Rb_(x)Ti₂Sb₂O for x
= 0, 0.02, 0.05, 0.1, and 0.2 in a temperature range between 1.8 and 100
K. The CDW transition manifests itself in a sudden increase of the
resistivity for the samples x = 0, 0.02, 0.05, and 0.1 (marked with a
black arrow). This anomaly is absent for the sample with x = 0.2. For
increasing rubidium contents x (up to x = 0.2), the normal-state
resistivities increase, the CDW ordering transition temperatures
$T_{\rm CDW}$ decrease, while the critical temperatures $T_{\rm c}$
increase.

been attributed to enhanced impurity scattering or to the proximity to a
metal-insulator transition [11, 16]. The dc magnetic susceptibility χ(T)
for temperatures from 1.8 to 10 K, measured in a zero-field-cooled (ZFC)
mode in an external field of μ₀H = 1 mT for the samples x = 0.05, 0.1,
0.15, 0.2, 0.3, and 0.4, are shown in the inset of Fig. 3. Almost
perfect diamagnetic shielding (χ = −1) is observed for the samples
x = 0.05, 0.1, 0.15, and 0.2 at 1.8 K. The samples with x = 0.3 and
x = 0.4 undergo a transition to a superconducting state at nearly the
same temperature as the optimally doped sample with x = 0.2. However,
their diamagnetic shielding fractions are clearly lowered, leading to
the conclusion that doping levels beyond x > 0.2 no longer display bulk
superconductivity (dashed lines). The onset temperatures of the
transition to the superconducting states, $T_{\rm c,onset}$, for the
bulk superconducting samples are marked with arrows in the corresponding
colors.

In Fig. 3 we summarize the electronic phase diagram of the
Ba_(1 − x)Rb_(x)Ti₂Sb₂O solid solution, with the superconducting
critical temperature $T_{\rm c}$ for the parent compound BaTi₂Sb₂O taken
from Ref. [8]. The critical temperatures $T_{\rm c}$ used for the phase
diagram are the intersections of the slopes of the phase transitions and
the normal-state magnetizations. The observed phase diagram for
rubidium-substituted Ba_(1 − x)Rb_(x)Ti₂Sb₂O is in good agreement with
the earlier reported phase diagrams for sodium-, potassium-, and
bismuth-substituted BaTi₂Sb₂O, with the exception that $T_{\rm CDW}$
decreases more rapidly than in the latter compounds.

The field-dependent resistivity measurements for x = 0.05 and optimally
doped x = 0.2 are shown in Figs. 4(a) and 4(b) for external fields
μ₀H ≤ 3 T. As expected, the transition temperature $T_{\rm c}$ is
gradually reduced with increasing magnetic fields. We have defined the
corresponding upper critical fields $H_{\rm c2}$ using a 50

$$H_{\rm c2}^{\rm WHH}(0)=-0.69T_{\rm c}\bigg{(}\frac{dH_{\rm c2}}{dT}\bigg{)}_{ T=T_{\rm c}}.$$
(1)

The resulting isotropically averaged upper critical fields are
$\mu_{0}H_{\rm c2}(0)\approx 1.3$ T for x = 0.05, and
$\mu_{0}H_{\rm c2}(0)\approx 2.3$ T for x = 0.2, respectively.

Figure 3: (Color online) Phase diagram of the electronic properties of
Ba_(1 − x)Rb_(x)Ti₂Sb₂O derived from resistivity and magnetization
measurements ($T_{\rm c}$ for the parent compound x = 0 was taken from
Ref. [8]). The inset shows the magnetic susceptibility of
Ba_(1 − x)Rb_(x)Ti₂Sb₂O for x = 0.02, 0.05, 0.1, 0.15, 0.2, 0.3, and 0.4
measured between 1.75 and 10 K in an external magnetic field of μ₀H = 1
mT in the zero-field-cooled (ZFC) mode. The onsets of the transition to
superconductivity $T_{\rm c,onset}$ are marked with arrows. The samples
x = 0.3 and 0.4 do not display a bulk diamagnetic shielding, and their
magnetic susceptibilities are displayed with dashed lines.

According to Ginzburg-Landau theory, the upper critical field at T = 0
K, $H_{\rm c2}(0)$, can be used to estimate the coherence length ξ(0) at
T = 0 K using

$$\mu_{0}H_{\rm c2}(0)=\frac{\Phi_{0}}{2\pi\,\xi(0)^{2}},$$
(2)

with Φ₀ = h/(2e) ≈ 2.0678 × 10⁻¹⁵ Wb being the magnetic flux quantum. We
obtain isotropically averaged coherence lengths of ξ(0) = 160 A for
x = 0.05, and ξ(0) = 120 A for the optimally doped sample with x = 0.2.
Recently, Gooch _et al._[16] derived, from field-dependent specific-heat
measurements for sodium-substituted Ba_(0.85)Na_(0.15)Ti₂Sb₂O with
$T_{\rm c}=4.2$ K, an upper critical field $H_{\rm c2}(0)=1.7$ T and a
corresponding coherence length ξ(0) = 140 A. Moreover, an upper critical
field $H_{\rm c2}(0)=0.08$ T and a corresponding coherence length
ξ(0) = 640 A were reported for the parent compound BaTi₂Sb₂O. The
coherence lengths ξ(0) and the upper critical fields $H_{\rm c2}(0)$
that we estimated here, for the rubidium-doped BaTi₂Sb₂O, are in good
agreement with these earlier reported values. The layered structure of
these materials implies, as is the case for the cuprates, that the
physical properties are highly anisotropic. Therefore, these numbers for
$H_{\rm c2}$ and the coherence lengths ξ obtained from polycrystalline
samples have to be taken as values appropriately averaged over all
crystal directions (see, e.g., Ref. [18]).

In Fig. 5 we show the specific heat of the optimally doped sample
(x = 0.2) in a C/T vs T representation. The normal-state contribution
has been fitted to the data between T = 6 and 13 K according to the
standard expression

$$\frac{C(T)}{T}=\gamma+\beta T^{2},$$
(3)

with the Sommerfeld constant γ and β = 12π⁴nR/5Θ_(D)³, where n = 6 is
the number of atoms per formula unit, R = 8.13 J/mol K is the gas
constant, and Θ_(D) is the Debye temperature (dashed line). The obtained
value γ ≈ 14 mJ/mol K² is in line with corresponding values reported for
BaTi₂Sb₂O [8] and Ba_(0.85)Na_(0.15)Ti₂Sb₂O [16], with γ values ranging
between

Figure 4: (Color online) (a) and (b) Normalized resistivity ρ(T)/ρ(10 K)
for the optimally doped sample x = 0.2 and x = 0.05, respectively.
Field-dependent resistivity measurements are shown for magnetic fields
between 0 and 3 T, varied by 0.05 T steps, in a temperature range
between 1.8 and 8 K. The dashed lines denote the 50

10 and 15 mJ/mol K². In the inset of Fig. 5 we show the measured ΔC/T
data, with this normal-state contribution subtracted, together with an
entropy-conserving construction to obtain the calorimetrically
determined critical temperature $T_{\rm c}^{\rm cal}$ and the
discontinuity $\Delta C/T_{\rm c}$ at $T_{\rm c}$. With
$\Delta C/T_{\rm c}\approx 22$ mJ/mol K² at $T_{\rm c}^{\rm cal}=5.4$ K
we obtain a ratio $\Delta C/\gamma\,T_{\rm c}\approx 1.6$, which only
slightly exceeds the standard weak-coupling BCS value,
$\Delta C/\gamma\,T_{\rm c}=1.43$, again in qualitative agreement with
the reported data for Ba_(0.85)Na_(0.15)Ti₂Sb₂O [16]. Here β ≈ 1.63
mJ/mol K⁴ corresponds to Θ_(D) ≈ 193 K, which is somewhat smaller than
Θ_(D) ≈ 210-239 K, as communicated for BaTi₂Sb₂O and
Ba_(0.85)Na_(0.15)Ti₂Sb₂O [8, 16].

In the upper inset of Fig. 6 we show the zero-field-cooled (ZFC) and the
field-cooled (FC) magnetic susceptibilities for the optimally doped
sample x = 0.2. The large screening efficiency, as well as a large
Meissner shielding of the order of ≈40

Figure 5: (Color online) Reduced specific heat C/T vs temperature T of
the optimally doped sample (x = 0.2), together with an inset showing the
same data after subtraction of the normal-state contribution (dashed
line in the main panel; see text). The solid lines in the inset
represent an entropy-conserving construction to obtain the discontinuity
and $\Delta C/T_{\rm c}$ and $T_{\rm c}^{\rm cal}$.

Figure 6: (Color online) ZFC field dependence of the magnetization m(H)
of the optimally doped sample with x = 0.2, for temperatures between
1.75 and 5 K (in 0.25 K steps), in magnetic fields μ₀H between 0 and 15
mT. The dashed line shows the ideal diamagnetic shielding. Upper inset:
ZFC and FC magnetic susceptibility of the sample with x = 0.2. Lower
inset: The temperature dependence of the lower critical field
$H_{\rm c1}$ of the sample with x = 0.2 (see text). The dashed line is a
fit to Eq. (4) with $T_{\rm c}$ fixed to 5.4 K.

room for ambiguity. We nevertheless applied the procedure described in
Ref. [19] to selected m(H) data for which we could identify a clearly
linear m(H) in the limit H → 0 (i.e., for our low-temperature data), and
the resulting $H_{\rm c1}$ values are plotted in the lower inset of Fig.
6. A reasonable estimate for $\mu_{0}H_{\rm c1}(0)$ can then be obtained
by using an empirical formula [21],

$$H_{\rm c1}(T)=H_{\rm c1}(0)[1-(T/T_{\rm c})^{2}].$$
(4)

With this approximation and fixing $T_{\rm c}=5.4$ K (see the dashed
line in the lower inset of Fig. 6), we obtain an isotropically averaged
lower critical field of $\mu_{0}H_{\rm c1}(0)\approx 3.8$ mT. Depending
on the criterion used for defining $H_{\rm c1}$, these numbers may vary
by a factor of unity [taking, for example, the maximum of −m(H) as a
criterion for $H_{\rm c1}$, yields corresponding values that are larger
by a factor of approximately 4]. Moreover, all these numbers represent
again values that are averaged over all crystal directions. We can
nevertheless state that these materials must be strongly type-II
superconductors with a Ginzburg-Landau parameter of the order of
κ = λ/ξ ≈ 35 for x = 0.2, as estimated from the relations [21]

$$\mu_{0}H_{\rm c1}=\frac{\phi_{0}}{4\pi\lambda^{2}}\ln(\kappa+0.5)$$
(5)

and

$$\frac{H_{\rm c1}}{H_{\rm c2}}=\frac{\ln(\kappa)+\frac{1}{\xi}}{\kappa^{2}},$$
(6)

with a λ ≈ 4200 A.

## IV Conclusion

We have described the successful synthesis of the
Ba_(1 − x)Rb_(x)Ti₂Sb₂O (x ≤ 0.4) solid solution, and presented data on
their basic physical properties. X-ray diffraction data show that the
compounds are single phase with a crystal structure isopoiinal to the
CeCr₂Si₂C-type (P4/mmm) structure. Our temperature-dependent resistivity
measurements reveal a continuous and drastic decrease of the CDW
ordering transition temperature, by replacing barium by rubidium, with
the CDW transition fully suppressed for x ≥ 0.2. At this doping level,
superconductivity reaches its maximum critical temperature
$T_{\rm c}=5.4$ K (in specific-heat measurements). Both a well developed
discontinuity in the specific heat at $T_{\rm c}$ and a large
Meissner-shielding fraction indicate the bulk nature of
superconductivity. A larger rubidium contents than the optimum value
x = 0.2 leads to a decrease of the diamagnetic shielding fraction, with
$T_{\rm c}$ remaining essentially unchanged. From our data we obtain
estimates for the isotropically averaged lower and the upper critical
fields $\mu_{0}H_{\rm c1}(0)\approx 3.8$ mT and
$\mu_{0}H_{\rm c,2}(0)\approx 2.3$ T for the optimally doped sample with
x = 0.2, indicating that these compounds are strongly type-II
superconductors. Our results support the scenario that hole doping by
the incorporation of Na⁺, K⁺, and also Rb⁺ is of great importance for
the suppression of CDW ordering and the occurrence of superconductivity
in these materials.

###### Acknowledgements.

F.v.R. acknowledges support via a scholarship from Forschungskredit UZH,
Grant No. 57161402. The authors would like to thank Michael Worle for
helpful discussions.

## References

* [1] J. Zhao _et al._, Nat. Mater. **7**, 953 (2008). * [2] M. S.
Torikachvili, S. L. Bud ko, N. Ni, and P. C. Canfield, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**101**, 057006 (2008). * [3] D. E. Moncton, J. D. Axe, and F. J.
DiSalvo, Phys. Rev. Lett. **34**, 734 (1975). * [4] L. F. Mattheiss and
D. R. Hamann, Phys. Rev. Lett. **60**, 2681 (1988). * [5] D. E. Cox and
A. W. Sleight, Solid State Commun. **19**, 969 (1976). * [6] E. Morosan,
H. W. Zandbergen, B. S. Dennis, J. W. G. Bos, Y. Onose, T. Klimczuk, A.
P. Ramirez, N. P. Ong, and R. J. Cava, Nat. Phys. **2**, 544 (2006). *
[7] T. Wu, H. Mayaffre, S. Krmer, M. Horvatic, C. Berthier, W. N. Hardy,
R. Liang, D. A. Bonn, and M. Julien, Nature (London) **477**, 191
(2011). * [8] T. Yajima, K. Nakano, F. Takeiri, T. Ono, Y. Hosokoshi, Y.
Matsushita, J. Hester, Y. Kobayashi, and H. Kageyama, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn.
**81**, 103706 (2012). * [9] P. Doan, M. Gooch, Z. Tang, B. Lorenz, A.
Moller, P. C. W. Chu, and A. M. Guloy, J. Am. Chem. Soc. **134**, 16520
(2012). * [10] U. Pachmayr and D. Johrendt, Solid State Sciences **28**,
31 (2014). * [11] H.-F. Zhai, W.-H. Jiao, Y.-L. Sun, J.-K. Bao, H.
Jiang, X.-J. Yang, Z.-T. Tang, Q. Tao, X.-F. Xu, Y.-K. Li, C. Cao, J.-H.
Dai, Z.-A. Xu, and G.-H. Cao, Phys. Rev. B **87**, 100502(R) (2013). *
[12] K. Nakano, T. Yajima, F. Takeiri, M. A. Green, J. Hester, Y.
Kobayashi, and H. Kageyama, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **82**, 074707 (2013). *
[13] S. Kitagawa, K. Ishida, K. Nakano, T. Yajima, and H. Kageyama,
Phys. Rev. B **87**, 060510 (2013). * [14] F. von Rohr, A. Schilling, R.
Nesper, C. Baines, and M. Bendele, Phys. Rev. B **88**, 140501(R)
(2013). * [15] J. Rodriguez-Carvajal, Physica B **192**, 55 (1993). *
[16] M. Gooch, P. Doan, Z. Tang, B. Lorenz, A. M. Guloy, and P. C. W.
Chu, Phys. Rev. B **88**, 064510 (2013). * [17] N. R. Werthamer, E.
Helfand, and P. C. Hohenberg, Phys. Rev. **147**, 295 (1966). * [18] V.
G. Kogan and R. Prozorov, Rep. Prog. Phys. **75**, 114502 (2012). * [19]
M. Naito, A. Matsuda, K. Kitazawa, S. Kambe, I. Tanaka, and H. Kojima,
Phys. Rev. B **41**, 4823 (1990). * [20] C. P. Bean, Rev. Mod. Phys.
**36**, 31 (1964). * [21] E. H. Brandt, Phys. Rev. B **68**, 054506
(2003).
