# Magnetic properties of BaRu1-_x_Rh_x_O_3 and Sr2Ru1-_x_Rh_x_O_4

P. D. Battle, J. G. Gore, J. R. Frost

###### Abstract

The magnetic susceptibilities of polycrystalline BaRu1-_x_Rh_x_O_3 (_x_
= $\frac{1}{3},\frac{1}{2}$) and Sr2Ru1-_x_Rh_x_O_4 (_x_ =
$\frac{1}{7},\frac{2}{3}$) have been measured as a function of
temperature. In all cases hysteresis is apparent below  100 K, and the
zero-field-cooled susceptibility of Sr2Ru1-_x_Rh_x_O_4 shows a maximum
below 20 K. The data suggest an increase in the extent of electron
localization in comparison with isostructural compounds (BaRuO3,
Sr2RuO4, and Sr2RhO4), but there is no evidence for the weak
ferromagnetism found in the Ir analogs (BaIrO3 and Sr2IrO4).

## Introduction

The discovery of superconductivity at relatively high temperatures in
mixed-valence oxides of copper prompted a great deal of research into
the solid state chemistry of that element. With the passage of time, the
scope of this activity has broadened to include oxides of transition
metals other than copper, with particular emphasis being placed on
perovskite-related compounds containing elements from the second and
third transition series. These metals occur in relatively high oxidation
states (>= +- 3), usually with <= 6 d electrons per cation, and, in the
strength of crystal field found in an oxide environment, they usually
adopt a low-spin configuration. In this case the _e_g(_s_’) band, which
is partially filled in Cu2+/Cu3+ compounds, is empty and the electronic
properties of the material are determined by the electron concentration
in the lower energy t2g(_p_) band. Although these two energy levels have
different symmetries, there is a hope that a partially filled t2g band
might give rise to the same remarkable properties that have been found
in the perovskite-related Cu compounds. The work carried out to date has
not led to the discovery of new "high _T_c," superconductors, but it has
revealed that these compounds can show a wide variety of electronic
properties. Crawford _et al._[1] have shown that Sr2IrO4 (isostructural
with K2NiF4) is weakly ferromagnetic below  250 K, whereas the
isoelectronic (5d electrons per transition metal cation) compound
Sr2RhO4 is metallic and shows no spontaneous magnetization.2,3 The
properties of Sr2RuO4 (_d_4) are similar to those of the Rh analog.
Similarly, although the rhombohedral perovskite 9_R_-BaRuO3 (_d_4) is a
paramagnetic metal,4,5 the essentially isostructural material BaIrO3
(_d_5) is a weak ferromagnet.6

Recently there has been a particular emphasis on both layered3 and
three-dimensional7 Rh-containing materials, the aim being to control the
average oxidation state of the cation, and hence the electron
concentration in the t2g band, by means of chemical substitution. This
research program has involved the synthesis of La1-_x_M_x_RhO3 (_M_ =
Ca, Sr, Ba) (Ref. 7) and Sr2-_x_La_x_RhO4,9 both of which can be thought
of as mixed valence Rh(III)/Rh(IV) compounds. The members of the latter
series are metallic for x <= 0.15 and semiconducting for x >= 0.20,
whereas the members of the former series are all paramagnetic
semiconductors. We too have initiated a study of Rh oxides, but rather
than varying the occupation of the t2g band by making substitutions
among the diamagnetic cations, we have chosen to introduce a second
transition metal species. Thus we have studied the magnetic properties
of BaRu2/_x_Rh1/_x_O_3 and BaRu1/_x_Rh1/_x_O_3, having an average of
4.33 and 4.50

Figure 1: The crystal structure of BaRuO3.

d electrons per transition metal cation, respectively. It has been shown
previously[8] that these compounds are isostructural with 9R-BaRuO₃, the
somewhat anisotropic structure of which is drawn in Fig. 1. We have
adopted a similar strategy in our study of the K2NiF4 phases
Sr2Ru113Rh23O4 and Sr2Ru112Ru112O4 (d^(4.66) and d^(4.5), respectively).
The results of this work are described below.

## Experiment

Polycrystalline samples of composition BaRu1-_x_Rh_xO3 were prepared in
alumina crucibles by firing the appropriate stochiometric quantities of
RuO2, Rh2O3 and BaCO3 (Johnson Matthey Chemicals) in air at temperatures
of up to 1200 degC for several days. Samples of Sr2Ru1-_x_Rh_xO4 were
prepared by firing intimately ground mixtures of SrCO3, RuO2, and Rh2O3
at 1200 degC in a flow of oxygen gas. The progress of the reactions was
monitored by x-ray powder diffraction using a Philips PW1710
diffractometer, operating with Cu _K_a radiation in Bragg-Brentano
geometry, at a 2_th_ step size of 0.02deg. The magnetic susceptibilities
of the monophasic products were measured in a magnetic field of 5 kG
over the temperature range 6 <= T <= 296 K using a CCL SCU500
superconducting quantum interference device magnetometer; data were
collected after cooling the sample from room temperature in zero applied
field (ZFC) and after cooling in the measuring field (FC).

## RESULTS

Single phase samples of BaRu1-_x_Rh_xO3 were obtained for x = 1/3 and
1/2. The x-ray diffraction data confirmed that these two compositions
are isostructural with rhombohedral BaRuO3, as proposed previously.[8]
The unit cell parameters refined to the values a = 5.7466(4), c =
21.726(2)A for x = 1/3 and a = 5.7534(4), c = 21.762(2) for x = 1/2.
Structure refinements performed in space group _R_-3m using the GSAS
program suite[9] showed good agreement between the observed and
calculated intensity distribution for both samples [_R_ = 5.1

Figure 3: The temperature dependence of the molar magnetic
susceptibility of Sr2Ru0.8Rh0.5_O4.

Figure 2: The temperature dependence of the molar magnetic
susceptibilities of BaRu1−_x_Rh_xO3 for x = 1/3, 1/2.

θ =  − 375 K, $\mu_{\rm eff}\!\!=\!2.9\mu_{B}$ ($x\!=\!\frac{1}{2}$).
The data collected on Sr₂Ru_(1 − x)Rh_(x)O₄ are plotted in Fig. 3
($x\!=\!\frac{1}{2}$) and Fig. 4 ($x\!=\!\frac{1}{2}$). Both
compositions exhibit hysteresis below ∼ 100 K, and the ZFC (but not the
FC) susceptibilities have maxima at 17 and 13 K, respectively. The high
temperature Curie-Weiss parameters are θ =  − 323 K,
$\mu_{\rm eff}\!\!=\!2.51\mu_{B}$ for $x\!=\!\frac{1}{3}$ and θ =  − 259
K, $\mu_{\rm eff}\!\!=\!2.3\mu_{B}$ for $x\!=\!\frac{1}{2}$.

## Discussion

The magnetic properties of BaRu_(1 − x)Rh_(x)O₃ can be contrasted with
those of metallic BaRuO₃ which has 4 d electrons per transition metal
cation. The magnetic susceptibility of the latter compound is only
slightly temperature dependent,[11] and ∼ 0.5 × 10⁻³ emu can be taken as
a representative value in the temperature range under discussion. No
hysteresis is apparent for 6 ≤ T ≤ 296 K.[12] The susceptibility of the
Rh-doped samples is thus an order of magnitude greater than that of
BaRuO₃, and is comparable to the values reported[13] for insulating
oxides of Ir(IV), a low spin d⁵ species having $S\!=\!\frac{1}{2}$.
Recent photoelectron spectroscopy measurements[5] have shown that the
magnetic susceptibility of BaRuO₃ is itself enhanced by a factor of 12
over the independent-electron value calculated from the density of
states at the Fermi energy. These results suggest that the disorder
created on the transition metal sublattice when some of the Ru is
replaced by Rh leaves the system a significant distance away from the
itinerant extreme of electron behavior. The relatively slight hysteresis
observed at low temperatures shows that there are significant
interactions between the magnetic moments localized on different
cations, and that these interactions are frustrated in some way. It is
likely that short range, but not long range, magnetic order is present
in these compounds at low temperatures, a hypothesis that could be
confirmed by a neutron scattering experiment. The enhancement of the
susceptibility and the presence of this magnetic coupling indicate that
the data cannot sensibly be interpreted in terms of band theory and
Pauli paramagnetism alone. However, the Weiss temperatures, θ, reported
above are considerably greater than those expected for a truly localized
electron system which shows no magnetic phase transition above 100 K;
this is particularly true for the sample with the lower concentration of
Rh dopant. The values of the effective magnetic moment, $\mu_{\rm eff}$
are also higher than predicted, whatever combination of cation oxidation
states [that is Rh(IV) and Ru(IV), or Rh(III) and a mixture of
Ru(IV)/Ru(V)] is assumed in the calculation of the expected value. A
similar enhancement of these parameters has been observed previously[14]
in Ru oxides in which the 4d band is known to have a significant width
although the compounds remain nonmetallic. It was suggested that these
materials lie close to the border between the localized and itinerant
electron regimes, and it is likely that the same is true of the
materials presently under discussion. It is difficult to identify the
cause of the magnetic frustration on the basis of our susceptibility
data alone, but similar effects have been observed in other compounds
containing either a low concentration of localized magnetic moments or
two different cation species which give rise to competing superexchange
interactions of comparable strengths.[15] The behavior of
BaRu_(1 − x)Rh_(x)O₃ can also be contrasted with that of the
isostructural compound BaIrO_(3 − δ) (Ref. 6) (d⁵ for δ = 0) which is
ferromagnetic below 170 K. The cation disorder apparently quenches both
the independent-electron behavior found in BaRuO₃ and the spontaneous
magnetism of BaIrO_(3 − δ). Similar effects are seen in the
Sr₂Ru_(1 − x)Rh_(x)O₄ series. The magnetic susceptibilities of our
samples are large enough to suggest that localized moments are present,
and they show a much stronger temperature dependence than was observed
for either of the metallic compounds Sr₂RhO₄ (Ref. 2) and Sr₂RuO₄,[16]
but there is no evidence of the weak ferromagnetism observed in the
insulator Sr₂IrO₄.[1] The values of θ and $\mu_{\rm eff}$ are closer to
the values expected for a localized electron system in the case of the
K₂NiF₄-like compounds than they were in the case of the rhombohedral
perovskites. The behavior of the former below 100 K is again indicative
of frustrated interactions between localized magnetic moments.
Hysteresis at temperatures significantly above a susceptibility maximum
has been observed previously in disordered Cu/Ru systems, and accounted
for in terms of spin-cluster formation.[17] As in the case of the
BaRu_(1 − x)Rh_(x)O₃ system, we conclude that the disorder among the
transition metal cations is influential in determining the properties of
these materials. We had hoped to replace Ru by Rh in BaRuO₃ and Sr₂RuO₄
as a means of varying the total electron count in the d band, whilst
maintaining the same crystal structure and retaining a metallic
conductivity. However, we conclude that the energies of the 4d levels
associated with the Rh and Ru species are sufficiently different for
electron localization to occur, and we are therefore unable to use this
strategy to vary, in a useful way, the d-electron concentration in the
conduction band of the parent compounds.

We are grateful to the SERC for financial support.

Figure 4: The temperature dependence of the molar magnetic
susceptibility of Sr₂Ru_(0.33)Rh_(0.67)O₄.

* [4] A. C. Larson and R. B. Von Dreele, General Structure Analysis
System, (unpublished). * [5] H. Muller-Buschbaum and J. Wilkens, Z.
Anorg. Allg. Chem. **591**, 161 (1990). * [6] M. Drillon, L. Padel and
J.-C. Bernier, J. Chem. Soc. Faraday II **75**, 1193 (1979). * [7] P. D.
Battle and S. H. Kim (unpublished). * [8] A. V. Powell, J. G. Gore, and
P. D. Battle, J. Alloys Compounds **201**, 73 (1993). * [9] P. D.
Battle, J. B. Goodenough, and R. Price, J. Solid State Chem. **46**, 234
(1983). * [10] P. D. Battle, J. G. Gore, R. C. Hollyman, and A. V.
Powell, J. Alloys Compounds (to be published). * [11] R. J. Cava, B.
Batlogg, K. Kiyono, H. Takagi, J. J. Krajewski, W. F. Peck, Jr., L. W.
Rupp Jr., and C. H. Chen, Phys. Rev. B **49**, 11 890 (1994). * [12] S.
H. Kim and P. D. Battle, J. Magn. Magn. Mater. **123**, 273 (1993).
