Superconducting state in the noncentrosymmetric Mg9₃Ir19_(16.7) and
Mg10_(10.5)Ir19_(17.1) revealed by NMR

K. Tahara,¹ Z. Li,¹ H. X. Yang,² J. L. Luo,² S. Kawasaki,¹ and Guo-qing
Zheng^(1, 2, ∅)

¹Department of Physics, Okayama University, Okayama 700-8530, Japan

²Institute of Physics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100190,
China

1 May 2009; published 11 August 2009

###### Abstract

We report ¹¹B NMR measurements in noncentrosymmetric superconductors
Mg9₃Ir19_(16.7) (T_(c)=5.8 K) and Mg10_(10.5)Ir19_(17.1) (T_(c)=4.8 K).
The spin-lattice relaxation rate and the Knight shift indicate that the
Cooper pairs are predominantly in the spin-singlet state with an
isotropic gap. However, Mg10_(10.5)Ir19_(17.1) is found to have more
defects and the spin susceptibility remains finite even in the
zero-temperature limit. We interpret this result as that the defects
enhance the spin-orbit coupling and bring about more spin-triplet
component.

pacs: 10.1103/PhysRevB.80.060503 + Footnote †: preprint: APS/123-QED

060503-1

## I Introduction

Superconductors without spatial inversion symmetry in the crystal
structure have attracted much attention. In superconducting materials
with an inversion center, the Cooper pairs are either in the
spin-singlet state or in the spin-triplet state due to Pauli exclusion
principle. However, when the inversion symmetry is broken, the
spin-singlet and spin-triplet states can be mixed.[1, 2, 3] This was
actually found in Li2Pt3B by nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) (Ref. [4])
and other measurements.[5, 6] The extent of parity mixing depends on the
strength of the spin-orbit coupling (SOC) that is enhanced by the lack
of inversion symmetry. In such materials, novel superconducting
properties can be expected.[7, 8]

After the discovery of the noncentrosymmetric compound CePtSi,[9] many
new superconductors of such kind have been discovered. They can be
categorized into two types. Namely, the strong-correlated electron
systems such as UIr,[10] CeRhSi3,[11] CeIrSi3,[12] and the weakly
correlated electron systems that include Li2Pd3B and Li2Pt3B,[13, 14]
Mg10Ir19B16,[15] Y(La)2-C3,[16, 17] Rh(Ir)2Ga9,[18, 19] and Ru3B,[20,
21] In the former class of materials, the electron correlations seem to
play an important role in governing the superconducting properties. The
latter class of materials is therefore more suitable for the study of
the pure effects of inversion-symmetry breaking.

In this Rapid Communication, we present the results of NMR studies on
the noncentrosymmetric superconductors Mg9₃Ir19_(16.7) (T_(c)=5.8 K) and
Mg10_(10.5)Ir19₁₉B17₁ (T_(c)=4.8 K). This material has a bcc crystal
structure with the space group of $\bar{4}3$m̄. There are two Mg sites,
three Ir sites, and two B sites. Among them, Ir(3) site (24±g site),
Mg(1) site (8±c site), and the two B sites do not have inversion
center.[15, 22] In particular, Ir is a heavy element, which may lead to
a large spin-orbit coupling. It has been reported that there is a wide
range for stoichiometries; changing the stoichiometry only results in a
small change in T_(c)-[15] Specific heat and photoemission measurements
suggested s-wave gap.[23, 24, 25] but there are also indications of
exotic pairing from tunneling spectroscopy and penetration depth
measurements.[26, 27] Our results of spin-lattice relaxation rate (1/T₁)
and the Knight shift indicate that the Cooper pairs are predominantly in
the spin-singlet state with an isotropic gap. However,
Mg10_(10.5)Ir19_(17.1) is found to contain more defects and the Knight
shift remains finite even in the zero-temperature limit. We interpret
this result as that the defect enhances the spin-orbit coupling and
brings about more spin-triplet component. Our result suggests that
properly introducing defects could provide a new route to exotic
superconducting state.

## II Experimental procedures and sample characterization

Two polycrystal samples with different nominal composition were prepared
by the solid-state reaction method with starting materials of Mg (99.8

For NMR measurements, the samples were crushed into powder. T_(c) at
zero and a finite magnetic field (H) was determined by measuring the ac
susceptibility using the _in situ_ NMR coil. Figure 1 shows the result
for H=0. T_(c)(H=0) for Mg9_(3.1)Ir19_(16.7) is 5.8 K, which is a higher
than the previous report by Klimczuk _et al._ for nominal composition
Mg1₂Ir19₃B19 (T_(c)=5 K),[15] and T_(c)(H=0) for
Mg10_(3.5)Ir19₃B17_(17.1) is 4.8 K. A standard phase-coherent pulsed NMR
spectrometer was used to collect data. In order to minimize the
reduction in T_(c) by H, the measurements were done at a low field of
0.44 T at which T_(c) was reduced to 4.11 and 3.45 K for the two
samples, respectively. The ¹¹B NMR spectra were obtained by fast Fourier
transform (FFT) of the spin echo and were found to have a full width at
half maximum (FWHM) of 4.6 kHz. The nuclear spin-lattice relaxation
rate, 1/T₁ was measured by using a single saturation pulse and by
fitting the nuclear magnetization to a single exponential function since
the quadrupole interaction is absent. Measurements below 1.4 K were
carried out in a ³He refrigerator. Efforts were made to avoid possible
heating by the RF pulse, such as using a small-amplitude RF pulse.

## III Results and Discussions

Figure 2 shows the temperature dependence of 1/T₁ for the two samples.
As can be seen clearly in the figure, 1/T₁ is enhanced just below T_(c)
over its normal-state value, forming a so-called coherence peak
(Hebel-Slichter peak), which is a hallmark of an isotropic
superconducting gap. Figure 3 shows 1/T₁ normalized by its value at
T_(c) against the reduced temperature, which compares the height of
Hebel-Slichter peak of the two samples. The 1/T₁₅ in the superconducting
state is expressed as
$\frac{T_{1/N}}{T_{15}}$=$\frac{2}{k_{B}T_{c}}$∫($1+\frac{\Delta^{2}}{EE^{2}}$)N_(s)(E)N_(s)(E^(*))f(E)[1−f(E^(*))]δ(E − E^(*))dEdE^(*)
where 1/T_(1N) is the relaxation rate in the normal state, N_(s)(E) is
the superconducting density of states (DOS), f(E) is the Fermi
distribution function and C =1+$\frac{\Delta^{2}}{E^{2}}$ is the
"coherence factor." Following Hebel,[28] we convolute N_(s)(E) with a
broadening function B(E), which is approximated with a rectangular
function centered at E with a height of 1/2δ. The solid curves below
T_(c) shown in Figs. 2 and 3 are calculations with 2Δ(0)=3.0k_(B)T_(c)
and r=Δ(0)/δ =5 for Mg_(9.3)Ir₉B_(16.7), and 2Δ(0)=2.2k_(B)T_(c) and r=3
for Mg_(10.3)Ir₉B_(17.1). The smaller Δ(0) than the BCS value is
probably too the applied field. In Li₂Pd₃B, a smaller
2Δ(0)=2.2k_(B)T_(c) at a field of 1.46 T (Ref. [29]) recovers to 3.0
k_(B)T_(c) at a smaller field of 0.44 T.[30]

Figure 4 shows the temperature dependence of the ¹¹B Knight shift. Above
T_(c), the shift is temperature independent,

Figure 1: (Color online) ac susceptibility measured using the _in situ_
NMR coil at zero magnetic field. The arrow indicates T_(c) for each
sample.

Figure 4: (Color online) The T dependence of the Knight shift for the
two samples. The solid curve below T_(c) for Mg_(9.3)Ir₉B_(16.7) and the
broken curve for Mg_(10.3)Ir₉B_(17.1) are calculations assuming purely
singlet pairing. The solid curve for Mg_(10.3)Ir₉B_(17.1) is a fit
assuming mixing triplet and singlet pairings (see text for detail).

Figure 2: (Color online) Temperature dependence of the ¹¹B spin-lattice
relaxation rate, 1/T₁, in Mg_(9.3)Ir₁₉B_(16.7) and Mg_(10.5)Ir₉B_(17.1).
The arrows indicate the superconducting transition temperature T_(c)
under the magnetic field of 0.44 T. The curves below T_(c) are fits to
the BCS theory with 2Δ₀=3.0k_(B)T_(c) (high-T_(c) sample) and
2.2k_(B)T_(c) (low-T_(c) sample), respectively. The broken lines above
T_(c) indicate the 1/T₁≈T relation.

Figure 3: (Color online) Normalized 1/T₁ against the reduced
temperature. The straight line above T_(c) indicates the 1/T₁≈T
relation.

while it changes below T_(c). The observed Knight shift (K_(orb)) is
composed of the spin part (K_(s)) and the orbital part (K_(orb)),
K_(obs)=K_(s)+K_(orb). K_(orb) is T independent, and K_(s) is
proportional to X_(s), K_(s)=A_(s/X), where A_(s/i) is the hyperfine
coupling between the nuclear and electron spins. In both samples, the
shift increases below T_(c). This indicates the decrease of χ_(s) in the
superconducting state since the hyperfine coupling constant is negative
as seen in Li₂Pd₃B.[29] Thus the spin pairing in Mg-Ir-B systems is in
the spin-singlet state. This is quite different from the case of
Li₂Pt₃B.[4] although Ir and Pt are located next to each other in the
periodic table. The difference is probably due to the fact that only
12/19 of Ir atoms sits in the noncentrosymmetric position. The solid
curve below T_(c) for Mg_(10.3)Ir₁₉B_(16.7) and the broken curve for
Mg_(10.3)Ir₁₉B_(17.1) in Fig. 4 are calculations assuming purely singlet
pairing, χ_(s)=$-4\mu_{B}^{2}N_{s}(E)\frac{e^{\beta(\beta)}}{4E}dE$,
with the same gap parameter obtained from T₁ taking. In performing the
fitting, K_(orb)=0.010

What is the origin of the finite spin susceptibility at T =0? We argue
that defect or disorder is responsible for the finite spin
susceptibility. Given that Mg_(9.3)Ir₁₉B_(16.7) has a higher T_(c), it
can be assumed that this composition is close to the optimal
stoichiometry. Then, the sample Mg_(10.5)Ir₁₉B_(17.1) can be viewed as
Ir deficient. TEM image supports that Mg_(10.3)Ir₁₉B_(17.1) has more
defects.

Figures 5(a) and 5(b) show, respectively, the electron-diffraction
patterns taken along [110], [001] zone-axis directions of the
Mg_(9.3)Ir₁₉B_(16.7) sample. All the diffraction spots in these patterns
can be well indexed using the expected cubic unit cell with lattice
parameters of a=10.57 A (space group of $I\overline{4}3m$). In contrast,
the electron-diffraction patterns of Mg_(10.5)Ir₁₉B_(17.1) always
contain additional weak reflection spots following each fundamental
spot, suggesting that this sample contains a rich variety of defect
structure. Further HRTEM (high-resolution TEM) study suggests that these
additional reflection spots are caused by Moire fringes and occurrence
of local structural distortion in the sample. Figure 5(c) gives a
typical electron-diffraction pattern taken along [110] zone-axis
direction of Mg_(10.5)Ir₁₉B_(17.1). Figure 5(d) shows a corresponding
HRTEM image. The inset of Fig. 5(d) is the Fourier spectrum obtained by
FFT, in which one of the extra spots is indicated by the arrow. Further
careful FFT analysis indicates that the extra spots arise from the area
marked as "B," which contains defect structure.

Now, in the presence of defect/disorder, there are two mechanisms that
can give rise to the finite spin susceptibility. One is spin-reversal
scattering by the impurity/disorder as pointed out by Anderson.[31] The
other is mixing of the spin-triplet component due to enhanced spin-orbit
coupling caused by defects. For spin-triplet superconductivity, the spin
susceptibility does not decrease below T_(c) or changes little,
depending on the magnetic field configuration with respect to the d
vector that characterizes the triplet pairing. In the former case, the
isotropic scattering would reduce the gap anisotropy and would lead to
an enhancement of the Hebel-Slichter peak, as was evidenced in Zn-doped
Al.[32] However, this is not seen experimentally. In fact, as can be
seen in Fig. 3, the peak height is smaller in the low-T_(c) sample
Mg_(10.5)Ir₁₉B_(17.1). Also, it seems hard to attribute a difference of
1 K in T_(c) to nonmagnetic impurity/defect in an s-wave superconductor.

We propose that the latter scenario, namely, the intrinsic effect of the
defect that enhances SOC is more likely. The SOC is described by the
Hamiltonian,

$$H_{SO}=\frac{\hbar^{2}}{4m^{2}c^{2}[\vec{\nabla}V(r)\times\vec{k}]\vec{ \sigma}},$$
(1)

where k⃗ and σ⃗ are the electron momentum and Pauli-spin operator,
respectively, and $\vec{\nabla}V(r)$ is the electrical field. In
addition to the broken inversion symmetry, a vacancy of Ir can also
increase $\vec{\nabla}V(r)$. In particular, vacancies occupying the
original centrosymmetric Ir(1) and Ir(2) sites will result in
inversion-symmetry breaking for these sites and enhance the SOC. The SOC
lifts the twofold spin degeneracy of the electron bands. As a result,
the spin-singlet and spin-triplet states are mixed.[3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8]
The extent to which the triplet-state component is mixed depends on the
strength of SOC.[1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8] We propose that the finite spin
susceptibility in Mg_(10.5)Ir₁₉B_(17.1) is due to such SOC that is
enhanced by Ir vacancy. The solid curve in Fig. 4 for
Mg_(10.5)Ir₁₉B_(17.1) is a fit assuming mixing triplet and singlet
pairings, with finite K_(s)=0.005

## IV Concluding remarks

In conclusion, we have presented the results of extensive NMR
measurements on noncentrosymmetric superconductors Mg_(9.3)Ir₁₉B_(16.7)
(T_(c)=5.8 K) and Mg_(10.5)Ir₁₉B_(17.1) (T_(c) =4.8 K). The spin-lattice
relaxation rate shows a coherence

Figure 5: (a) and (b) Electron-diffraction patterns taken along [110],
[001] zone-axis directions of Mg_(9.3)Ir₁₉B_(16.7). (c)
Electron-diffraction pattern and (d) high-resolution transmission
electron microscopy (HRTEM) image taken along [110] zone-axis direction
of Mg_(10.3)Ir₁₉B_(17.1). The inset of (d) is the corresponding FFT
pattern; one of the extra spots is indicated by the arrow.

peak just below T_(c) and follows an exponential T variation at low
temperatures. The spin susceptibility measured by the Knight shift
decreases below T_(c). These results indicate that the Cooper pairs are
predominantly in the spin-singlet state with an isotropic gap. This is
likely due to the fact that only 12/19 of Ir atoms sits in the
noncentrosymmetric position. However, Mg_(10.5)Ir₁₀B_(17.1) is found to
have more defects and the spin susceptibility remains finite even in the
zero-temperature limit. We propose that the defect enhances the
spin-orbit coupling and brings about more spin-triplet component. We
note that this mechanism may provide an alternative route to exotic
superconducting state.

## Acknowledgments

The authors wish to thank N. Ikeda for the suggestion of performing TEM
experiment. This work was partly supported by research grants from MEXT
and JSPS (Contracts No. 17072005 and No. 20244058) and NSF of China.

## References

* [1] L. P. Gor’kov and E. I. Rashba, Phys. Rev. Lett. **87**, 037004
(2001). * [2] P. A. Frigeri, D. F. Agterberg, A. Koga, and M. Sigrist,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **92**, 097001 (2004). * [3] P. A. Frigeri, D. F.
Agterberg, and M. Sigrist, New J. Phys. **6**, 115 (2004). * [4] M.
Nishiyama, Y. Inada, and G.-q. Zheng, Phys. Rev. Lett. **98**, 047002
(2007). * [5] H. Q. Yuan, D. F. Agterberg, N. Hayashi, P. Badica, D.
Vandervelde, K. Togano, M. Sigrist, and M. B. Salamon, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**97**, 017006 (2006). * [6] H. Takeya, M. ElMassalami, S. Kasahara, and
K. Hirata, Phys. Rev. B **76**, 104506 (2007). * [7] C. K. Lu and S.
Yip, Phys. Rev. B **77**, 054515 (2008). * [8] K. V. Samokhin and V. P.
Mineev, Phys. Rev. B **77**, 104520 (2008). * [9] E. Bauer, G. Hilscher,
H. Michor, Ch. Paul, E. W. Scheidt, A. Gribanov, Yu. Seropegin, H. Noel,
M. Sigrist, and P. Rogl, Phys. Rev. Lett. **92**, 027003 (2004). * [10]
T. Akazawa, H. Hidaka, T. Fujiwara, T. C. Kobayashi, E. Yamamoto, Y.
Haga, R. Settai, and Y. Onuki, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter **16**, L29
(2004). * [11] N. Kimura, K. Ito, K. Saitoh, Y. Umeda, H. Aoki, and T.
Terashima, Phys. Rev. Lett. **95**, 247004 (2005). * [12] I. Sugitani,
Y. Okuda, H. Shishido, T. Yamada, A. Thamizhavel, E. Yamamoto, T. D.
Matsuda, Y. Haga, T. Takeuchi, R. Settai, and Y. Onuki, J. Phys. Soc.
Jpn. **75**, 043703 (2006). * [13] K. Togano, P. Badica, Y. Nakamori, S.
Orimo, H. Takeya, and K. Hirata, Phys. Rev. Lett. **93**, 247004
(2004). * [14] P. Badica, T. Kondo, and K. Togano, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn.
**74**, 1014 (2005). * [15] T. Klimczuk, Q. Xu, E. Morosan, J. D.
Thompson, H. W. Zandbergen, and R. J. Cava, Phys. Rev. B **74**,
220502(R) (2006). * [16] C. Amano, S. Akutagawa, T. Muranaka, Y.
Zenitani, and J. Akimitsu, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **73**, 530 (2004). * [17]
A. Simon and T. Gulden, Z. Anorg. Allg. Chem. **630**, 2191 (2004). *
[18] T. Shibayama, M. Nohara, A. Katori, Z. Hiroi, and H. Takagi, J.
Phys. Soc. Jpn. **76**, 073708 (2007). * [19] K. Wakui, S. Akutagawa, N.
Kase, K. Kawashima, T. Muranaka, F. Iwahori, J. Abe, and J. Akimitsu, J.
Phys. Soc. Jpn. **78**, 034710 (2009). * [20] L. Fang, H. Yang, X. Zhu,
G. Mu, Z.-S. Wang, L. Shan, C. Ren, and H.-H. Wen, Phys. Rev. B **79**,
144509 (2009). * [21] N. Kase and J. Akimitsu, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn.
**78**, 044710 (2009). * [22] Q. Xu, T. Klimczuk, T. Gortenmulder, J.
Jansen, M. A. McGuire, R. J. Cava, and H. W. Zandbergen, Chem. Mater.
**21**, 2499 (2009). * [23] G. Mu, Y. Wang, L. Shan, and H. H. Wen,
Phys. Rev. B **76**, 064527 (2007). * [24] Z. Li and J. L. Luo, Acta
Phys. Sin. **57**, 4508 (2008). * [25] R. Yoshida, H. Okazaki, K. Iwai,
Noumi, T. Muro, M. Okawa, K. Ishizaka, S. Shin, Z. Li, J. L. Luo, G.-Q.
Zheng, T. Oguchi, M. Hirai, Y. Muraoka, and T. Yokoya, J. Phys. Soc.
Jpn. **78**, 034705 (2009). * [26] T. Klimczuk, F. Ronning, V. Sidorov,
R. J. Cava, and J. D. Thompson, Phys. Rev. Lett. **99**, 257004
(2007). * [27] I. Bonalde, R. L. Ribeiro, W. Bramer-Escamilla, G. Mu,
and H. H. Wen, Phys. Rev. B **79**, 052506 (2009). * [28] L. C. Hebel,
Phys. Rev. **116**, 79 (1959). * [29] M. Nishiyama, Y. Inada, and G.-Q.
Zheng, Phys. Rev. B **71**, 220505(R) (2005). * [30] M. Kandatsu, M.
Nishiyama, Y. Inada, and G.-q. Zheng, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **77** (Suppl.
A), 348 (2008). * [31] P. W. Anderson, Phys. Rev. Lett. **3**, 325
(1959). * [32] Y. Masuda, Phys. Rev. **126**, 1271 (1962).
