Frequency dependence of the surface impedance of YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) thin
films in a dc magnetic field: Investigation of vortex dynamics

Sylvie Revenaz

# Abstract

Lincoln Laboratory, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Lexington,
Massachusetts 02173-9108; Department of Physics, Massachusetts Institute
of Technology, Cambridge Massachusetts 02139-4307; and Rome Laboratory,
Hanscom Air Force Base, Massachusetts 01731-3010

D. E. Oates

Lincoln Laboratory, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Lexington,
Massachusetts 02173-9108

D. Labbe-Lavigne

199 Hamilton Street, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139

G. Dresselhaus

Francis Bitter National Magnet Laboratory, Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139-4307

and Rome Laboratory, Hanscom Air Force Base, Massachusetts 01731-3010

M. S. Dresselhaus

Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science and Department
of Physics, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02139-4307

17 January 1994

###### Abstract

We report measurements of the surface impedance Z_(s) = R_(s) + iωλ^(′)
of YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) thin films in an externally applied dc magnetic
field B (parallel to the c axis) using a stripline resonator. At T = 4.3
K we obtain the surface resistance R_(s) and the microwave penetration
depth λ^(′) as a function of applied dc field up to 5 T and as a
function of microwave frequency f from 1.2 to 20 GHz. While λ^(′)
increases linearly with B for B > 1 T at all frequencies, R_(s) is found
to be roughly  ∝ B^(α(f)), where α(f) < 1 for f ≤ 10 GHz and α(f) ≈ 1
for f ≥ 10 GHz. In zero dc field, R_(s) ∝ f². For B > 1 T, R_(s) shows a
much weaker dependence on f. The results for Z_(s)(f, T, B) have been
quantitatively explained using a model developed by Coffey and Clem,
based on a self-consistent treatment of vortex dynamics that includes
the influence of vortex pinning, viscous drag, and flux creep. The
pinning force constant α_(p), the pinning frequency ω_(p), and the
pinning activation energy U₀(T, B) are obtained through the fitting
procedure. We find that the effects of thermally activated flux creep at
4.3 K upon the surface resistance are significant. The low U₀ ≈ 35 K
that we determine is interpreted as arising from the interaction of the
vortex lattice with a dense random pinning potential as described in the
collective-pinning theory.

## I Introduction

Measurements of the vortex lattice response to ac fields are widely used
to investigate the vortex dynamics in type II superconductors.
Experiments such as ac magnetic permeability,[1] surface impedance,[2,
3] vibrating-reed mechanical resonator,[4, 5] and torsional
oscillator[6] have the common feature that a small ac field interacts
with the vortices that have penetrated the sample. The ac field
generates surface shielding currents. The resulting Lorentz force on
vortices near the surface generates an oscillation of these vortices
that propagates toward the interior of the superconductor. This
propagation is made possible through vortex interactions and is slowed
down by pinning or by friction. Hence vortex motion strongly affects the
shielding properties of a type II superconductor in the mixed state and
influences both the real and imaginary parts of either the magnetic
permeability or the surface impedance.

In this paper we present measurements of the surface impedance
Z_(s) = R_(s) + iX_(s) of YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) (YBCO) thin films in applied
dc magnetic fields (0 < B < 5 T). The Z_(s) contains information about
power absorption (R_(s)) and shielding processes (X_(s)). We used a
stripline-resonator technique, which makes it possible to make
measurements as a function of frequency with a single device.
Temperature, applied dc field, and rf current can also be varied. In
earlier experiments based on R_(s) measurements in PbIn thin films,
Gittleman and Rosenblum[7] showed a crossover in the vortex dynamics
from a pinning-dominated regime at low frequency to a flux-flow regime
at high frequency. This crossover frequency has been called the pinning
frequency ω_(p).

A unified theory of the effects of vortex pinning and flux creep upon
Z_(s) of type II superconductors has recently been published by Coffey
and Clem[8, 9, 10] which addresses the microscopic mechanisms
responsible for the frequency dependence of Z_(s) of type II
superconductors.

We use the Coffey-Clem model to explain quantitatively our experimental
results. Important parameters of the model such as the pinning force
constant (Labusch parameter) α_(p), the pinning frequency ω_(p), and the
pinning activation energy U₀ have been determined for the YBCO thin
films we measured. In the Coffey-Clem model, U₀ is assumed to be
independent of the current density. We find that flux creep strongly
influences the microwave surface resistance at 4.3 K. In our analysis we
incorporated microscopic aspects of collective-pinning theory into the
Coffey-Clem model. This extension allows us to explain the origin of the
observed low-temperature flux creep in our microwave experiment.

The microwave properties of YBCO thin films in externally applied
magnetic fields are also of practical interest. Any practical device is
likely to encounter either dc or very low frequency magnetic fields. It
is important to know exactly what magnitude of field will cause
degradation of the surface resistance or shifts in the resonance
frequency for the case of resonator-based devices. There are also
reports of devices such as microwave frequency circulators [11] that
operate by design in an applied magnetic field. Flux-flow transistors
[12] have shown great promise as three-terminal devices with power gain,
operating at microwave frequencies. Such devices utilize flux flow for
their operation. Clearly the understanding of flux dynamics is necessary
for several practical applications.

## II Stripline resonator and Z measurement

The measurements of Z_(s) were made using the two-port stripline
resonator structure described previously [13, 14] and shown in Fig. 1.
The resonator consists of a strip line transmission line, patterned by
photolithography, one-half wavelength long at the fundamental frequency
f₀, with f₀ = 1.24 GHz and 1.46 GHz for the two resonators used.
Overtone resonances occur at all multiples of the fundamental frequency.
Thus, measurements at the overtone resonances give the frequency
dependence of Z_(s).

The quality factor Q and the resonance frequency of all the overtone
modes of the resonator were measured in transmission. The resonator is
capacitively and weakly coupled to both input and output circuits. The
weak coupling assures that the unloaded quality factor Q_(u) is
approximately equal to the loaded quality factor Q_(L). In the stripline
geometry, because the rf field penetrates the substrates, one must have
low dielectric losses in the substrates to achieve high Q. The unloaded
Q is given by

1/Q_(u) = 1/Q_(c) + tan δ = af^(β) + tan δ,
(1)

where Q_(c) is the Q of the superconductor and tan δ is the loss tangent
of the dielectric substrate. We and others [13, 14] have found that
Q_(c) is proportional to f⁻¹ at zero applied field, which implies that
the surface resistance is proportional to f². However, β ≠ 1 in an
applied field B > μ₀H_(c1), where H_(c1) is the field at which flux
penetrates the sample. We assume that tan δ is independent of frequency
and magnetic field in the frequency range 1-20 GHz. By plotting Q_(u)
versus f we determine tan δ ≈ 5 × 10⁻⁶ at 4.3 K in the LaAlO₃ substrates
that we used and verify that substrate losses are not limiting the
measured Q that is used to calculate R_(s). Radiation losses can be
neglected because the ground planes serve to confine the fields inside
the resonator and the radiation Q is greater than 3 × 10⁶.

The experiments were carried out using a superconducting magnet, and B
was applied parallel to the c axis of the YBCO, and thus perpendicular
to the stripline structure and to the surface of the films. In this
geometry, a large demagnetizing effect results in vortices penetrating
the films in an applied dc field that is much smaller than the bulk
H_(c1). The exact experimental determination of the demagnetizing
coefficient is not easy. To check the flux penetration in our resonator,
we removed the center conductor of the stripline resonator (see Fig. 1)
and put at its location a Hall sensor. In applied fields greater than ≈
0.1 T the field between the ground planes is measured to be equal to the
applied field.

For the stripline shown in Fig. 1 the rf current distribution in zero dc
field has been calculated by Sheen _et al._[15] The rf current density,
which flows in the z direction along the line perpendicular to the
applied external dc magnetic field, is nonuniform along the length and
across the width of the strip line. As a function of position z along
the length l of the line, the total current

Figure 1: Schematic three-dimensional view of the stripline resonator.
(a) Patterned center line. The rf current $J_{\rm rf}$ flows along the z
direction. (b) Stripline resonator showing the ground planes. The
applied dc magnetic field is along the y direction.

is given by

$$I_{\rm rf}=I_{0}\sin(n\pi z/l),$$
(2)

where n is the resonance mode number. In zero field, across the width of
the line, the current density $J_{\rm rf}$ is highest at the edges and
decreases toward the center with the characteristic length λ^(′), the
microwave penetration depth. In the mixed state, the Lorentz force
arising from the rf current causes the vortices to oscillate. The vortex
response gives rise to a redistribution of the rf currents and thus
λ^(′) is affected. There are at least three contributions to λ^(′): one
from Cooper pairs, one from the vortices, and one from the
quasiparticles. Thus λ^(′) depends not only on temperature, but also on
the microwave frequency and applied dc magnetic field, as will be
described in Sec. IV. In these measurements the rf current is used to
probe the vortex structure and the rf power is kept low enough that the
Q values are only weakly dependent on the rf power. The value of
λ^(′)(f, B) is determined by measuring the frequency of the fundamental
and overtone resonances of the strip-line resonator as a function of B
at a given temperature. The resonant frequency is proportional to
$1/\sqrt{L}$, where L is the inductance per unit length of the stripline
which depends upon λ^(′), and L(λ^(′)) has been calculated numerically
from the current distribution.[15] The relationship

$$\frac{\Delta f}{f}=\sqrt{L(\lambda^{\prime})}\frac{d}{d\lambda^{\prime}}\biggl{(} \frac{1}{\sqrt{L(\lambda^{\prime})}}\biggr{)}\Delta\lambda^{\prime}$$
(3)

enables us to calculate λ^(′)(B) at each resonant frequency if we know
λ^(′)(B = 0). In zero field, λ^(′) is the usual penetration depth which
in the two-fluid model is given by

$$\lambda(T)=\frac{\lambda(0)}{[1-(T/T_{\rm c})^{4}]^{1/2}}.$$
(4)

Since only frequency shifts are measured, we do not have any direct
determination of λ(0) = λ^(′) (T = 0, B = 0). The determination of λ(0)
is model dependent and we have used a two-fluid-model fit of the data at
f(T)(Refs. 13 and 14) to obtain an accurate estimate of
λ^(′)(T = 0, B = 0). Study of the behavior of λ(T, B = 0) is a problem
of some importance,[16, 17, 18, 19] but is not the subject of this
paper. We found that a two-fluid-model fit to our experimental data[20]
gives us a λ(0) value with an accuracy of 20

The R_(s) is calculated from the measured Q and from f₀ according to the
relationship[14, 15]

$$R_{s}=\frac{\Gamma f_{0}}{\Delta(\lambda^{\prime}/d)Q},$$
(5)

where Γ is a geometrical factor (Γ = 0.41Ω/GHz in our case) and
Δ(λ^(′)/d) is a correction factor calculated from the current
distribution, which is important when λ^(′)/d (d is the thickness of the
film) becomes comparable to unity.[14, 15]

## III YbCO films

The films used to fabricate the stripline resonators reported here were
made by an off-axis magneton-sputtering process that was reported
previously.[21, 22] They are single-phase films with the c axis
perpendicular to the plane of the film. We concentrate here on results
from two resonators. A resonator (see Fig. 1) consists of three YBCO
thin films clamped together. All the films were deposited on LaAlO₃
substrates. To obtain the meander line that constitutes the center
conductor of the resonator, YBCO was deposited directly on a 10 × 10-mm²
substrate for resonator No. 1, and on a 2-in.-diameter wafer that was
subsequently cut into 10 × 10-mm² pieces for resonator No. 2. The lines
were patterned by standard photolithography and were etched using 0.25

Table 2: Values of the four parameters α_(p), f_(p), ν, and U₀ of the
Coffey-Clem model determined from our data.

obtained α_(p) = 2.1 × 10⁴ N/m² at low temperature. Our results depart
from those of Wu and Sridhar in two ways: First, we obtain a much larger
α_(p) value in thin films than they do in a single crystal, and second,
we find that α_(p) is field independent, while they find
α_(p) ∝ B^(1/2).

In other work, the dependence α_(p) ∝ B^(3/2) has been measured in a
Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O₈ polycrystalline sample [33] and in a NbTi powder sample
[54] in vibrating-reed mechanical resonator experiments, [4, 5]
performed at frequencies in the kHz range.

## VI Discussion

The work presented in this paper is one of the very few swept-frequency
experiments that have been performed on the temperature and magnetic
field dependence of the surface impedance. To the best of our knowledge,
only two other papers report the frequency dependence of the ac
impedance in a dc magnetic field. [38, 36] In these experiments f < 600
MHz and the authors focus on the results obtained at high temperature to
investigate the existence of a vortex-glass phase in a large magnetic
field using scaling arguments. To interpret our results, obtained at
1.24  < f < 20 GHz and T = 4.3 K, we used the phenomenological model of
Coffey and Clem, which does not involve any phase transition, but which
derives important parameters such as the pinning force constant α_(p),
the pinning frequency f_(p), and the pinning activation energy U₀.
Though the Coffey-Clem model was not developed explicitly for a
vortex-glass state, the model does assume that the vortices are
uncorrelated. In the low-frequency region of our experimental
measurements these conditions are met and the Coffey-Clem model gives a
good fit to the data.

From the fit of our experimental results to the Coffey-Clem model, we
have demonstrated the importance of thermally activated flux creep at
low temperature in YBCO films. The small magnitude of the ratio
U₀/2k_(B)T is responsible for a relatively large R_(s) in an applied dc
magnetic field at low temperature and at 1.2 GHz.

In all high-T_(c) superconductors, flux creep is also responsible for
the observed rapid decay of the dc magnetization, and thermally
activated flux flow [37] is the key to understanding the resistive
transitions in a dc field at high temperature. Next we review some
recently reported experiments performed both at low temperature and in
the vicinity of T_(c). We will see how the small U₀ that we obtained at
low temperature from our high-frequency experiment compares with values
determined in other experiments.

Magnetization-decay experiments yield a value of U₀ which is extracted
from the rate of decay based on a phenomenological model. Three models
are usually employed, leading to model-dependent U₀ values that can vary
significantly. The time scale of magnetization-decay experiments is very
long compared to that of the microwave frequency measurements, in which
flux creep is on a time scale τ approximately equal to 1/(2πf). Thus in
our experiments τ ≈ 7.7 × 10⁻¹² s, whereas the observation time involved
in a magnetization-decay experiment is greater than 1 s. Hence dc
magnetization experiments, probing vortex motion over a long time scale,
observe the response of vortices more strongly pinned than those that
give rise to the microwave response.

Recently, however, a dynamical relaxation technique has been developed
[38] which enables the determination of a U₀ sensitive to fast
relaxation and which therefore provides U₀ values to be compared with
our microwave measurements. Furthermore, by definition, these
experiments are performed at a J comparable to J_(T) in our experiments,
thus making a comparison of U₀ obtained in these two cases reasonable.

By using the dynamical relaxation technique, ν values have been derived
by Douwes and Kes [38] in YBCO thin films containing screw dislocations.
They compare two ν values derived from two distinct models. At B = 1 T
and at T = 21.8 K, they obtained ν ≈ 20 using the Kim-Anderson model and
ν ≈ 10 using the logarithmic model. Applying the same technique to the
investigation of YBCO thin films, Wen _et al._[39] analyzed their data
using the collective-pinning theory. Agreement between their results and
the collective-pinning model is found in the intermediate-temperature
range (20 K  < T < 65 K), but at low temperature (T < 10 K), strong
disagreement is found that is attributed to an abnormally fast
relaxation. The failure of the relaxation rate to extrapolate to zero
when T → 0 K has been observed in other experiments carried out below 1
K in various superconducting materials [40] and this effect is
attributed to quantum tunneling of vortices.

The experiment of Wen _et al._[39] provides two useful pieces of
information. First, from this experiment we learn that we cannot get
ν(T = 4.3) by extrapolation results obtained at T > 20 K. Thus, an
extrapolation of the Douwes and Kes [38] results from T = 21.8 K to
T = 4.3 K may be inappropriate for a comparison with our results.
Second, in this experiment, the possibility of a fast relaxation rate at
T = 4.3 K is shown. This latter point is where the work of Wen _et
al._[39] and our microwave studies agree.

At high temperature, close to T_(c), thermal effects on flux motion have
been found to be important in the vicinity of the irreversibility
temperature $T_{\rm irr}(B)$. [41] The irreversibility temperature is
the temperature where thermal depinning of vortices occurs. [42] A list
of various experiments showing evidence for the thermal depinning of
vortices has been given by Brandt. [42] Recently Owliaei _et al._, [3]
using the Coffey-Clem model to interpret a field crossover in the vortex
response at microwave frequency (f = 10 GHz) in YBCO thin films,
obtained a line in the B-T plane that coincides with the irreversibility
line. Owliaei _et al._ obtain U₀ = 1.8 × 10⁴ K at B = 1 T. A value of
about the same magnitude was obtained much earlier by Palstra _et
al._[43]

The U₀ values determined from experiments at high temperature are
several orders of magnitude higher than the low-temperature U₀
determined in the experiment presented in this paper. These disparate U₀
values must arise from different origins. The vortex responses at
microwave frequency at $T\approx T_{\rm irr}$ and when T = 4.3 K
probably correspond to different vortex dynamics and different vortex
phases. At high temperature the pinning activation energy is associated
with plastic deformation of the vortex lattice,[44, 45] and
$U_{0}\approx U_{\rm pl}$ has been estimated to be
$U_{\rm pl}\approx\phi_{0}^{2}a_{0}/8\pi^{2}\Gamma\lambda_{\rm pl}^{2}$,
where Γ = λ_(⊥)/λ_(∥) is the anisotropy factor, λ_(⊥) and λ_(∥) are,
respectively, the London penetration depths for B ⊥ c axis and B ∥ c
axis, and a₀ = ϕ₀/B is the distance between neighboring vortices. Taking
Γ = 5, B = 1 T, and λ_(∥) = 170 nm, we obtain $U_{\rm pl}\approx 4500$
K, a value that is of the same order of magnitude as that of Owliaei _et
al._[3]

We think that the low U₀ that we determined in these experiments results
from the interaction of the vortex lattice with a high density of
randomly distributed defects in the films as described by Larkin and
Ovchinnikov in their collective-pinning theory.[46] A large number of
metastable configurations may exist for the pinned vortex lattice. In
the case of three-dimensional collective-pinning theory, in the
single-vortex limit[46] the correlated volume is given by
$V_{\rm c}=R_{\rm c}^{2}\ell=a_{0}^{2}\ell$, where ℓ and $R_{\rm c}$
are, respectively, the lengths parallel and transverse to the magnetic
field direction. Hence, $V_{\rm c}$ contains only a segment of one
vortex. At finite temperature, this vortex segment may hop between two
states that are separated by a distance 2r_(f). To draw a relationship
between r_(f), which is a parameter of the collective-pinning theory,
and a_(p), which is a parameter of the Coffey-Clem model, we must
understand the physical meaning of r_(f). Kes and van den Berg[47]
defined r_(f) as the distance in which the elementary pinning force
varies from $+{\cal F}_{p}$ to $-{\cal F}_{p}$. Adopting this
definition, we deduce r_(f) = a_(p)/2. The energy cost for the
displacement of a vortex segment ℓ over a distance r_(f) is the energy
of the elastic deformation of the vortex line:

$$U_{\rm el}=C_{44}(r_{f}/\ell)^{2}V_{\rm c},$$
(21)

where C₄₄ is the tilt modulus of the vortex lattice. Sudbo and
Brandt[48, 49, 50] showed that in high-κ superconductors (κ = λ/ξ), C₄₄
is dispersive as a result of the nonlocal nature of the elastic energy
when the vortex interaction range (λ) exceeds a₀. They calculated that
C₄₄ = C₄₄⁰(k) + C₄₄^(corr)(k). In the limiting case of isolated
vortices, the second term C₄₄^(corr)(k) is predominant and it is reduced
by the anisotropy factor of Γ². We will use the approximate expression
given by Vinokur _et al.[51]_ for C₄₄ in the single-vortex limit in an
anisotropic type II superconductor:

$$\begin{array}{rcl}C_{44}&\approx&4\sqrt{3}C_{66}/\Gamma^{2},\\ &&\\ C_{66}&=&\phi_{0}B/(16\pi\mu_{0}\lambda_{\parallel}^{2}),\end{array}$$
(22)

where C₆₆ is the small-field shear modulus of the vortex lattice.
Replacing r_(f) by a_(p)/2 in Eq. (21), we obtain

$$U_{\rm el}=\frac{\phi_{0}^{2}\sqrt{3}}{16\pi\mu_{0}\lambda_{\parallel}^{2} \Gamma^{2}}\frac{V_{\rm v}}{\ell}.$$
(23)

We note that for b = B/B_(c2) ≪ 1, $U_{\rm el}$ is very weakly dependent
upon the magnetic field. From the collective-pinning
theory,[52]ξ < ℓ < a₀ when (J_(e) − J)/J_(e) ≲ 1. Taking λ_(∥) = 170 nm,
Γ = 5, $V_{\rm v}=3\times 10^{-26}$, we calculate $4<U_{\rm el}<94$ K.
One of the basic assumptions of the collective-pinning theory is that U₀
is of the order of the elastic energy of the moving vortex segment. In
order to further explore the implications of U₀ determined by the fit of
our measurements to the Coffey-Clem model, we equate U₀ with
$U_{\rm el}$. We then find that ℓ = 23 A and a_(p) = 39 A for resonator
No. 1 and ℓ = 30 A and a_(p) = 32 A for resonator No. 2. We note that ℓ
extends beyond several CuO₂ twin planes and we confirm thereby the
validity of the three-dimensional limit for YBCO. We thus determine
r_(f) = 20 A for resonator No. 1 and r_(f) = 16 A for resonator No. 2.
As predicted by Brandt,[32] we obtain r_(f) ≈ ξ ≈ 20 A. From the
relationship r_(f)/J_(e) = 6.6 × 10⁻²¹ m²/A, we calculate
J_(e)(T = 4.3, B = 1) = 2.4 × 10⁷ A/cm² in resonator No. 2. Although we
do not have any direct measurement of J_(e)(T = 4.3, B = 1) to compare
with the value obtained from our analysis, this value compares well with
published data.[30] By incorporating microscopic aspects of the
collective-pinning theory, we have been able to determine the correlated
length of a vortex in the single-vortex regime ℓ, some characteristic
length of the pinning structure a_(p), and the pinning range r_(p), and
we have been able to predict a value for J_(e). The values of ℓ, a_(p),
r_(f), and J_(e) thus determined support our assumptions made for the
analysis of the data.

## VII Conclusion

We have presented measurements of the microwave surface impedance
Z_(s)(f, T, B) = R_(s)(f, T, B) + iμ₀ωλ^(′)(f, T, B) for YBCO thin films
at T = 4.3 K as a function of dc field B up to 5 T, microwave frequency
1.2 GHz  < f < 20 GHz, and rf current in the range 10⁻⁴ A
$<I_{\rm rf}<1$ A. The static magnetic field is sufficiently large that
there is uniform penetration of the field and the vortices are uniformly
distributed. We found that, in this frequency and field range, the
relative change of R_(s) is much larger than the relative change of
λ^(′). These changes are related and depend on the dynamics of the
vortex lattice. The study of R_(s)(f) and λ^(′)(f) allows us to
investigate the different time scales involved in the vortex lattice
dynamics. At a frequency f, the processes that can be probed are those
with a relaxation time τ < 1/(2f). The analysis of R_(s)(f) and
λ^(′)(f), within the framework of the Coffey-Clem model, showed that for
1.2 < f < 20 GHz, vortices are in the Campbell regime; namely, the
vortices oscillate within the potential well that defines the pinning
site. But this frequency range is large enough to allow the observation
of two other regimes at both extremes of our frequency measurement
interval. At high frequency, dR_(s)(f)/df is decreasing, indicating that
as the frequency is increased the vortex dynamics is evolving toward a
free-flux-flow regime. At low frequency, a vortex may have time to break
away from its potential well and to become pinned in another neighboring
potential well. This is a thermally activated flux-creep process, and at
low frequency it results in an increase in R_(s) relative to the value
without flux creep. At low temperature and in a small reduced field
b = B/B_(c2), we identified the energy barriers for flux motion to be
generated by flux-line-lattice disorder, as explained by the
collective-pinning theory. These barriers are much smaller than the
energy barriers identified for thermally assisted flux flow, and are
related to a plastic deformation of the flux-line lattice at much higher
temperature.

We have investigated the dynamics of vortices perpendicular to the CuO₂
planes at low temperature. An extension of this work in three different
directions is under way. First, because of the large structural
anisotropy of YBCO, a large anisotropy of R_(•)(f, T, B) is expected.
The anisotropy of R_(•) is being studied by rotating the externally
applied field B in a plane perpendicular to the a-b plane of YBCO. Of
particular interest is the situation where the vortices lie in the a-b
planes of YBCO. Second, it would be interesting to explore the
high-temperature region. In order to be able to measure R_(•)(f) at
T > 70 K, the coupling of the resonator to the external circuit will be
increased to improve the signal-to-noise ratio. Third, Coffey and Clem
predicted the existence of nonlinear effects in the vortex dynamics. We
are now investigating this phenomenon, measuring
$R_{\bullet}(I_{\rm rf})$ and measuring the generation of a second
harmonic of the fundamental microwave frequency.

###### Acknowledgements.

One of the authors (S.R.) thanks the French Ministere de la Recherche et
de l’Espace for financial support which made this research possible. At
the MIT Lincoln Laboratory, the work was supported by the Advanced
Research Projects Agency (ARPA) under the auspices of the Consortium for
Superconducting Electronics (CSE). The work at the Rome Laboratory was
sponsored by the Department of the Air Force, and the work at MIT by
AFOSR Grant No. F4962-93-1-0160. We wish to thank R. P. Konieczka and D.
Baker for device fabrication and Y. Habib for help with the
measurements, G. Fitch for programming, and A. C. Anderson of MIT
Lincoln Laboratory for supplying the high-$T_{\rm c}$ films. We also
gratefully acknowledge numerous technical discussions and suggestions
from Dr. Mark Coffey and technical support from Peter Rainville. We
thank Dr. C. C. Chin for help with the initial setup of the experiment.

## References

* [1] Ph. Seng, R. Gross, U. Baier, M. Rupp, D. Koelle, R. P. Huebener,
P. Schmitt, G. Saemann-Ischenko, and L. Schultz, Physica C **192**, 403
(1992). * [2] M. S. Pambianchi, D. H. Wu, L. Ganapathi, and S. Anlage,
IEEE Trans. Appl. Supercond. **AS-3**, 2774 (1993). * [3] J. Owliaei, S.
Sridhar, and J. Talvacchio, Phys. Rev. Lett. **69**, 3366 (1992). * [4]
P. L. Gammel, L. F. Schneemeyer, J. V. Waszczak, and D. J. Bishop, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **61**, 1666 (1988). * [5] S. de Brion, R. Calemczuk, and J.
Y. Henry, Physica C **178**, 225 (1991). * [6] G. D’Anna, W. Benoit, W.
Sadowski, and E. Walker, Europhys. Lett. **20**, 167 (1992). * [7] J. I.
Gittleman and R. Rosenblum, Phys. Rev. Lett. **16**, 734 (1966). * [8]
M. W. Coffey and J. R. Clem, Phys. Rev. Lett. **67**, 386 (1991). * [9]
M. W. Coffey and J. R. Clem, Phys. Rev. B **46**, 11757 (1992). * [10]
M. W. Coffey and J. R. Clem, Phys. Rev. B **45**, 10527 (1992). * [11]
J. S. Martens, V. M. Hietala, T. A. Plut, D. S. Ginley, G. A. Vawter, C.
P. Tigges, and M. P. Siegal, IEEE Trans. Appl. Supercond. **AS-3**, 2295
(1993). * [12] E. Denlinger, R. Paglione, D. Kalokitis, E. Belohoubek,
A. Pique, X. D. Wu, T. Venkatesan, A. Fathy, V. Pendrick, S. Green, and
S. Matthews, IEEE Microwave Guided Wave Lett. **MGW-2**, 449 (1992). *
[13] D. E. Oates and A. C. Anderson, IEEE Trans. Magn. **MAG-27**, 867
(1991). * [14] D. E. Oates, A. C. Anderson, D. M. Sheen, and S. M. Ali,
IEEE Trans. Microwave Theory Tech. **MTT-39**, 1522 (1991). * [15] D. M.
Sheen, S. M. Ali, D. E. Oates, R. S. Withers, and J. A. Kong, IEEE
Trans. Appl. Supercond. **AS-1**, 108 (1991). * [16] S. M. Anlage and D.
H. Wu, J. Supercond. **5**, 395 (1992). * [17] D. A. Bonn, P. Dosanjh,
R. Liang, and W. N. Hardy, Phys. Rev. Lett. **68**, 2390 (1992). * [18]
D. Achkir, M. Poirier, D. A. Bonn, R. Liang, and W. N. Hardy, Phys. Rev.
B **48**, 13184 (1993). * [19] M. R. Beasley, Physica C **209**, 43
(1993). * [20] D. E. Oates, A. C. Anderson, C. C. Chin, J. S. Dervo, G.
Dresselhaus, and M. S. Dresselhaus, Phys. Rev. B **43**, 7655 (1991). *
[21] A. S. Westerheim, L. S. Yu-Jahnes, and A. C. Anderson, IEEE Trans.
Magn. **MAG-27**, 1001 (1991). * [22] A. S. Westerheim, A. C. Anderson,
D. E. Oates, S. N. Basu, D. Bhatt, and M. J. Cima, J. Appl. Phys.
**75**, 393 (1994). * [23] E. H. Brandt, Phys. Rev. Lett. **67**, 2219
(1991). * [24] D. H. Wu and S. Sridhar, Phys. Rev. Lett. **65**, 2074
(1990). * [25] A. M. Campbell, J. Phys. C **2**, 142 (1969). * [26] A.
M. Campbell, J. Phys. C **4**, 3186 (1971). * [27] R. Labusch, Cryst.
Lattice Defects **1**, 1 (1969). * [28] P. Martinoli, P. Fluckiger, V.
Marisco, P. K. Srivastava, C. Leeman, and J. L. Gavolino, Physica B
**166**, 1163 (1990). * [29] C. J. van der Beek, V. B. Geshkenbein, and
V. M. Vinokur, Phys. Rev. B **48**, 3393 (1993). * [30] L. Schultz, B.
Roas, P. Schmitt, P. Kummeth, and G. Saemann-Ischenko, IEEE Trans. Magn.
**MAG-27**, 990 (1991). * [31] G. Muller, N. Klein, A. Brust, H.
Chaloupka, M. Hein, S. Orbach, H. Piel, and D. Reschke, J. Supercond.
**3**, 235 (1990). * [32] E. H. Brandt, Phys. Rev. Lett. **57**, 1347
(1986).

* [33] A. Gupta, P. Esquinazi, H. F. Braun, H. W. Neumuller, G. Ries, W.
Schmidt, and W. Gerhauser, Physica C **170**, 95 (1990). * [34] J.
Kober, A. Gupta, P. Esquinazi, H. F. Braun, and E. H. Brandt, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **66**, 2507 (1991). * [35] H. K. Olsson, R. H. Kosc, W.
Eidelloth, and R. P. Robetzazi, Phys. Rev. Lett. **66**, 2661 (1991). *
[36] H. Wu, N. P. Ong, and Y. Q. Li, Phys. Rev. Lett. **71**, 2642
(1993). * [37] P. H. Kes, J. Aarts, J. van den Berg, C. J. van de Beek,
and J. A. Mydosh, Supercond. Sci. Technol. **1**, 242 (1989). * [38] H.
Douwes and P. H. Kes, J. Alloys Compos. **195**, 451 (1993). * [39] Wen
Hai-Hu, R. Griessen, D. G. de Groot, B. Dam, and J. Rector, J. Alloys
Compos. **195**, 427 (1993). * [40] A. C. Mota, G. Juri, P. Visani, A.
Pollini, T. Teruzzi, and K. Aupke, Physica C **185-189**, 343 (1991). *
[41] A. P. Malozemoff, Mater. Res. Soc. Bull. **15**, 50 (1990). * [42]
E. H. Brandt, Int. J. Mod. Phys. B **5**, 751 (1991). * [43] T. T. M.
Palstra, B. Batlogg, R. B. van Dover, L. F. Schneemeyer, and J. V.
Waszczak, Appl. Phys. Lett. **54**, 763 (1989). * [44] V. M. Vinokur, M.
V. Feigel’man, V.B. Gesckenbein, and A. I. Larkin, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**65**, 259 (1990). * [45] V. B. Gesckenbein, A. I. Larkin, M. V.
Feigel’man, and V. M. Vinokur, Physica C **162-164**, 239 (1989). * [46]
A. I. Larkin and Y. N. Ovchinnikov, J. Low Temp. Phys. **34**, 409
(1979). * [47] P. H. Kes and J. van den Berg, in _Studies of High
Temperature Superconductors_, edited by A. Narlikar (Nova Science
Publishers, New York, 1990), Vol. 5. * [48] A. Sudbo and E. H. Brandt,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **66**, 1781 (1991). * [49] A. Sudbo and E. H. Brandt,
Phys. Rev. B **43**, 10482 (1991). * [50] E. H. Brandt and A. Sudbo,
Physica C **168**, 426 (1991). * [51] V. M. Vinokur, P. H. Kes, and A.
E. Koshelev, Physica C **168**, 29 (1990). * [52] M. V. Feigel’man, V.
B. Gesckenbein, A. I. Larkin, and V. M. Vinokur, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**63**, 2303 (1989).

Figure 1: Schematic three-dimensional view of the stripline resonator.
(a) Patterned center line. The rf current J_(rf) flows along the z
direction. (b) Stripline resonator showing the ground planes. The
applied dc magnetic field is along the y direction.
