# Superconductivity in the ternary germanide La₃Pd₄Ge₄

H. Fujii,¹ T. Mochiku,¹ H. Takeya,¹ and A. Sato²

¹Superconducting Materials Center National Institute for Materials
Science National Institute for Materials Science 1-2-1 Sengen Tsukuba
Tsukuba Ibaraki 305-0047 Tsukuba 305-0047 Japan

²Materials Analysis Station National Institute for Materials Science 1-1
Namiki Tsukuba Tsukuba Ibaraki 305-0044 Tokyo 222 May 2005; revised
manuscript received 14 September 2005; published 28 December 2005

###### Abstract

The ternary germanide La₃Pd₄Ge₄ has been prepared by arc melting. This
compound takes a body-centered lattice with an orthorhombic unit cell
with the lattice parameters of a = 4.2200(3) A, b = 4.3850(3) A, and c
=25.003(2) A. The crystal structure of La₃Pd₄Ge₄ is U₃Ni₄Si₄-type with
the space group of _Immm_, consisting of the combination of structural
units of AlB₂-type and BaAl₄-type layers. This compound is a type-II
superconductor with a critical temperature (_T_c) of 2.75 K. The lower
critical field _H_c1(0) is estimated to be 54 Oe. The upper critical
field _H_c2(0) estimated by linear extrapolation of the _H_c2(7) curves
is about 4.0 kOe, whereas the Werthamer-Helfand-Hohenberg theory gives
_H_c2(0)WH1=3.0 kOe. This is an interesting observation of
superconductivity in the compounds with U₃Ni₄Si₄-type structure. The
coherence length _g_(0) of 330 A and the penetration depth λ(0) of 2480
A are derived.

2005 74.70.Dd, 61.10.Nz, 68.37.Lp

## I Introduction

Among ternary intermetallic compounds, ThCr₂Si₂-type intermetallics,
RE_T_2M2 (RE= rare earth, _T_=transition metal, M = Si and Ge), have
been extensively studied, especially for the interest of the
superconducting and magnetic properties. The structure of ThCr₂Si₂ is
the ordered ternary derivative of the binary BaAl₄-type structure.¹
Although superconductivity is observed for some compounds, the critical
temperature (_T_c) is as low as 1 K, as reported for LaPd₂Ge₂ and
LaPt₂Ge₂ with _T_c’s of 1.12 and 0.55 K, respectively.² Many works were
carried out for the discovery of different intermetallic superconductors
with higher _T_c’s. Finally, quaternary intermetallic borocarbide
superconductors RE_T_2B2C with ThCr₂Si₂-derivative structure showing
high _T_c’s were discovered.³ ⁻ ⁶ Among these compounds, YPd₃B₂C shows a
_T_c of 23 K, which is the highest among ThCr₂Si₂-type intermetallic
compounds.

Apart from ThCr₂Si₂-type structure, another intermetallic
superconductor, MgB₂, was discovered several years ago.⁷ The MgB₂ shows
a _T_c as high as 39 K, which is the highest among intermetallic
compounds. The structure of the MgB₂ is AlB₂-type structure, which is
composed of alternating hexagonal layers of Al atoms and graphitelike
honeycomb layers of B atoms. Many works have been done so far on the
compounds with AlB₂-type structure after the discovery of MgB₂, and
several superconductors with this structure have been reported.^(8, 9)
In this paper we report a different ternary germanide superconductor,
La₃Pd₄Ge₄.

## II Experiment

Starting materials were La (chunk, 99.9

Phase identification was carried out for crushed powder samples by an
x-ray-diffraction (XRD) method with an x-ray diffractometer JEOL
JDX-3500. The XRD patterns were fitted using the Rietveld refinement
program rietan 2000.¹⁰ Microstructural observation was carried out using
a scanning electron microscope (SEM) with an energy dispersive x-ray
(EDX) spectrometer. Electron diffraction (ED) patterns and
high-resolution electron microscope (HREM) images were recorded for
crushed samples using a JEOL JEM-4000EX. The crushed samples were
dispersed in CCl₄ and transferred to carbon coated copper grids. Image
calculations were carried out using a mactempas software program.

dc magnetization measurements were performed for bulk and crushed powder
samples with a superconducting quantum interference device (SQUID)
magnetometer, Quantum Design MPMS XL. _M-H_ and _M-T_ curves were
recorded at temperatures above 1.8 K in fields up to 5 kOe. The volume
fraction of the superconducting phase was estimated from the magnitude
of zero-field-cooled (ZFC) magnetization in a field of 10 Oe in the
_M-T_ measurements. The _T_c was defined as the onset temperature where
a diamagnetic signal was observed. Electrical resistivity measurements
were carried out in the temperature range from 1.8 to 300 K by a
standard dc four-probe method.

## III Results and Discussion

SEM-EDX analysis was performed on the polished cross section of the
samples. The composition of the main phase in the samples was La₃Pd₄Ge₄.
ED patterns taken along the various zone axes for the La₃Pd₄Ge₄ phase
suggest that the La₃Pd₄Ge₄ takes an orthorhombic unit cell with the
lattice parameters of a = 4.22 A, b = 4.39 A, and c = 25.0 A. The
reflection condition was h + k + l = 2n. These indicate that the lattice
of the La₃Pd₄Ge₄ is body-centered with a suggested space group of
_Immm_2,_ I222,_ I212_12_1, or _Immm_.

Most of the diffraction peaks in the XRD pattern were indexed on the
basis of an orthorhombic unit cell with the lattice parameters of a =
4.2200(3) A, b = 4.3850(3) A, and c = 25.003(2) A. This is in agreement
with the lattice parameters obtained from the ED patterns. Other small
peaks could be indexed on the basis of a tetragonal unit cell of
LaPd₂Ge₂ with the space group of I4/_mmm_ with the lattice parameters of
a = 4.3692(9) A and c = 10.023(2) A. These lattice parameters of the
LaPd₂Ge₂ are slightly smaller than those reported previously.[11]
Although some shiny crystals were observed in the crushed samples, they
were identified as LaPd₂Ge₂ single crystal.

Analog compounds, La₃Rh₄Ge₄ and Ce₃Rh₄Ge₄, take U₃Ni₄Si₄-type structure
with an orthorhombic unit cell with the space group of _Immm_.[12, 13]
The lattice parameters of La₃Rh₄Ge₄ are a = 4.1746(3) A, b = 4.2412(2)
A, and c = 25.234(3) A, whereas the lattice parameters of Ce₃Rh₄Ge₄ are
a = 4.0915(5) A, b = 4.2400(19) A, and c = 25.0673(82) A. These
parameters are almost equal to those of La₃Pd₄Ge₄. Therefore the crystal
structure of La₃Pd₄Ge₄ was refined on the basis of the U₃Ni₄Si₄-type
structural model with the space group of _Immm_. The Rietveld
refinements for the XRD patterns were carried out for La₃Pd₄Ge₄ and
LaPd₂Ge₂ simultaneously. Tables 1 and 2 list the final results of the
refinements for La₃Pd₄Ge₄. The atomic parameters are listed in Table 1,
and the lattice parameters and the R factors[14] are listed in Table 2.
The volume fractions of the La₃Pd₄Ge₄ and LaPd₂Ge₂ were estimated to be
96 and 4

The isotropic thermal parameters B of all the atoms in the La₃Pd₄Ge₄
were fixed at 1.0 for the fitting, because the refinement of those B
parameters caused not only smaller _R_wp(=14

A [010] HREM image of La₃Pd₄Ge₄ is shown in Fig. 2. Here the
corresponding ED pattern and calculated image are together shown in the
inset. The image calculations were carried out with the results of the
refinements listed in Tables 1 and 2. The calculated image along the
[010] zone axis was obtained with (Δf, t) = (−760 A,18 A). Here Δf and t
denote defocus values and specimen thickness, respectively. In the
experimental image, regular structure along the c axis with

  ----------- -----------
     a (Å)     4.2200(3)
     b (Å)     4.3850(3)
     c (Å)     25.003(2)
    V (Å³)     462.67(5)
   _R_wp (%)     15.06
   _R_p (%)      11.85
   _R_R (%)      20.81
   _R_I (%)      6.91
   _R_F (%)      6.04
   _R_e (%)      7.60
       S         1.98
  ----------- -----------

Table 2: The lattice parameters and the R factors for La₃Pd₄Ge₄.

Figure 1: Observed, calculated, and difference x-ray-diffraction data
for La₃Pd₄Ge₄. Plus marks (+) and the overlapped continuous line
indicate the observed diffraction data and the calculated pattern,
respectively. The refinement was carried out on the basis of
U₃Ni₄Si₄-type structural model with the space group of _Immm_. The
background was fitted as a part of the refinement. The upper and lower
vertical lines below the pattern denote the peak positions of La₃Pd₄Ge₄
and LaPd₂Ge₂, respectively. The difference between observed and
calculated intensities is shown at the bottom in the same scale.

the periodicity of 25 A is clearly observed, and no irregular
intergrowth of blocks is observed. This is in agreement with the
corresponding ED pattern where no streaks along the _c^(*)_ axis are
observed. Compared with the experimental and calculated images, the
calculated image is in good agreement with the corresponding
experimental image. With the results of the Rietveld refinements
mentioned above, we conclude that the crystal structure of La₃Pd₄Ge₄ is
U₃Ni₄Si₄ type with the space group of _Inmmm_.

Figure 3 shows the crystal structure of La₃Pd₄Ge₄. This structure is
composed of combination of structural units of AlB₂-type and BaAl₄-type
layers according to the relation
2La(Pd_(0.5)Ge_(0.5))₂+LaPd₂Ge₂=La₃Pd₄Ge₄. The U₃Ni₄Si₄-type structure
is observed for other related compounds, _R₃_Rh₄Ge₄ (_R_=La and Ce), as
mentioned above. On the other hand, _Ln₃_Pd₄Ge₄ (_Ln_= Y, Gd-Yb) takes
the same body-centered lattice with the orthorhombic unit cell with the
space group of _Inmmm_, but the structure is not U₃Ni₄Si₄ type but
Gd₃Cu₄Ge₄(Li₄Sr₃Sb₄) type.[15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20] Whereas the size of
La is large and its atomic radius is 1.87 A, the atomic radii of _Ln_
are smaller than that of La due to lanthanide contraction. The atomic
radii of _Ln_ are too small to form U₃Ni₄Si₄-type structure.

Both U₃Ni₄Si₄-type and Gd₃Cu₄Ge₄(Li₄Sr₃Sb₄)-type structures contain
structural units of AlB₂-type layers. The essential difference between
these structures is the coordination of the Ni and Cu. In La₃Pd₄Ge₄,
only the Pd atoms in the BaAl₄ layers are tetrahedrally surrounded by Ge
atoms, whereas other Pd atoms in the AlB₂ layers are surrounded by three
Ge atoms in a trigonal planar configuration. On the other hand, in
_Ln₃_Pd₄Ge₄ with Li₄Sr₃Sb₄-type structure, all the Pd atoms are located
in the center of a tetrahedron of Ge.

Figure 4 shows temperature-dependent dc magnetization measured in a
field of 10 Oe both in ZFC and field-cooled (FC) modes for La₃Pd₄Ge₄.
For the bulk sample, the diamagnetic signals are observed at 2.75 K for
both modes with a 10-90

The same dc magnetization measurements were carried out for finely
crushed powder samples. This is also shown in

Figure 3: Crystal structure of La₃Pd₄Ge₄. Here La, Pd, and Ge are
denoted by large, medium, and small circles, respectively.

Figure 2: (a) A HREM image taken along the [010] zone axis for
La₃Pd₄Ge₄. The corresponding ED pattern and calculated image are shown
in the inset. The unit cell and calculated image of La₃Pd₄Ge₄ are
indicated by solid and dashed lines, respectively, in the experimental
image. Regular structure with the periodicity of 25 Å along the c axis
is observed. The calculated image was obtained with (Δf,t)=(−760 Å,18
Å). Here Δf and t denote defocus values and specimen thickness,
respectively. (b) The enlarged calculated image and a schematic view of
the structure along the [010] zone axis for La₃Pd₄Ge₄. The La atom is
imaged as large white dots, whereas the Pd and Ge atoms are merged as
ellipsoidal gray dots.

Fig. 4. Compared with the result obtained for the bulk sample, the
powder samples show a slightly lower $T_{\rm c}$ with broader transition
and the magnitude of the FC magnetization is much larger. The magnitude
of flux expulsion at 1.8 K is about half that of the ZFC magnetization.
This difference is due to the magnetic flux trapping by the absence of a
weak-link problem.[21] In the state of fine powder, the magnetic flux is
easily expelled from the sample, resulting in the large Meissner effect.
This indicates that the diamagnetic signal is due to the bulk
superconductivity. The broadening of the transition observed for the
powder sample is also reported for other compounds.[21, 22]

Figure 5 shows the field dependence of magnetization curves M(H)
measured for the bulk sample at various temperatures. The details of the
same curves in the background region are shown in the inset. These
curves are characteristic for type-II superconductors. Figure 6 shows
the temperature dependence of magnetization curves M(T) measured for the
bulk sample at various magnetic fields. The details of the same curves
in the vicinity of $T_{\rm c}$ are also shown in the inset. Small kinks
observed in the M(T) curves at around 2.2 K are due to the temperature
instability of the SQUID magnetometer.

The apparent lower critical field ($H_{\rm c1}^{*}$)of the La₃Pd₄Ge₄ was
determined by low-field magnetization measurements. $H_{\rm c1}^{*}$ at
various temperatures was taken as the point of deviation of M(H) from
the linear M-H behavior observed at low magnetic fields. The true lower
critical field ($H_{\rm c1}$) was obtained from the $H_{\rm c1}^{*}$ by
applying the correction for the demagnetization factor. The $H_{\rm c1}$
as a function of temperature is shown in Fig. 7. Fitting with the
formula $H_{\rm c1}$ =$H_{\rm c1}(0)[1-(T/T_{\rm c})^{2}]$ results in
$H_{\rm c1}(0)$ = 54 Oe. The $H_{\rm c1}(0)$ is much lower than that of
intermetallic Ni-based borocarbide superconductors (around 800 Oe) (Ref.
[23]) and MgB₂ (around 400 Oe).[24]

The upper critical field ($H_{\rm c2}$) was estimated from both M(H) and
M(T) curves. For the M(H) curves, the $H_{\rm c2}$ was determined from
the point where the M(H) curves reach the background. For the M(T)
curves, the $H_{\rm c2}$ was estimated, taking account of the onset
point of superconducting transition of the M(T) curves. The $H_{\rm c2}$
estimated from these curves as a function of temperature is shown in
Fig. 8.

Both $H_{\rm c2}(T)$ curves obtained from the M(H) and M(T) curves show
a positive curvature in the vicinity of $T_{\rm c}$, similar to other
superconductors, such as Li₂Pd₃B (Ref. [22]) and borocarbides.[23]
Except for this region, the gradient $-dH_{\rm c2}/dT$ is estimated to
be 1.6 kOe/K for both $H_{\rm c2}(T)$ curves. These values are
comparable to those reported for other ternary rare-earth
transition-metal silicides and ger

Figure 4: Temperature-dependent dc magnetization curves for La₃Pd₄Ge₄.
The data were recorded in zero-field cooled (ZFC) and field cooled (FC)
modes for the bulk and powder samples. The applied field was 10 Oe.

Figure 5: Field dependence of magnetization curves M(H) at various
temperatures for La₃Pd₄Ge₄. The details of the same curves in the
background region are shown in the inset. The points where the M(H)
curves reach the background are indicated by arrows for each
temperature.

Figure 6: Temperature dependence of magnetization curves M(T) at various
magnetic fields. The details of the same curves in the vicinity of
$T_{\rm c}$ are shown in the inset.

manides with low $T_{\rm c}$s, such as RE${}_{2}T_{\rm d}X_{10}$
(RE=rare earth, T =transition metal, X=Si or Ge). [25] Linear
extrapolation of the $H_{\rm c2}(T)$ curves obtained from the M(H) and
M(T) curves gives $H_{\rm c2}(0)^{M.H}$=4.0 kOe and
$H_{\rm c2}(0)^{M.T}$=4.1 kOe, respectively. On the other hand, assuming
the Werthamer-Helfand-Hohemberg (WHH) formula
$H_{\rm c2}(0)^{\rm WHH}=-0.69T_{\rm c}(dH_{\rm c2}/dT)_{T_{\rm c2}}$.
[26, 27]$H_{\rm c2}(0)^{\rm WHH}$ of 3.0 kOe is obtained from both
$H_{\rm c2}(T)$ curves. In the following calculations, we have used
$H_{\rm c2}(0)^{\rm WHH}$ for $H_{\rm c2}(0)$.

With the formula $H_{\rm c2}$= Φ₀/2πξ² (Φ₀ the flux quantum), the
coherence length ξ(0) is estimated to be 330 A. This value is several
times larger than those of borocarbide superconductors [5, 23] and MgB₂.
[24] From $H_{\rm c2}(0)$ and ξ(0), the penetration depth λ(0) is
calculated to be 2480 A with the formula $H_{\rm c1}$=(Φ₀/4πλ²)ln(λ/ξ).
This value is comparable to that of Pt-based borocarbide superconductors
[5] and a few times larger than that of MgB₂. [24] The Ginzburg-Landau
parameter κ(0) is 7.5, derived from the formula κ(0) = λ(0)/ξ(0), and
thermodynamic critical field $H_{\rm c}(0)$ is 280 Oe with the formula
of $H_{\rm c}(0)$=$H_{\rm c2}(0)/\sqrt{2\kappa(0)}$. Table III lists
these measured and derived superconducting parameters.

The electrical resistivity ρ as a function of temperature for La₃Pd₄Ge₄
is shown in Fig. 9. The detail of the region in the vicinity of
$T_{\rm c}$ is shown in the inset. The resistivity decreases with
decreasing temperature, showing metallic-type conductivity. The onset
temperature of the transition is 2.85 K, and zero resistance is observed
at 2.75 K. From 300 to 20 K, the temperature-dependent resistivity curve
shows a small negative curvature. The room temperature resistivity,
ρ(300 K), is approximately 270 μΩcm, and the residual resistivity, ρ
(res), just above $T_{\rm c}$, is 11 μΩcm. The resistivity residual
resistivity ratio (RRR) is ρ(300 K)/ρ(res)=24.5. Such a small negative
curvature and relatively high RRR are also reported for other ternary
superconducting germanides such as Y₅Rh₄Ge₁₀. [25]

Figure 8: Upper critical field $H_{\rm c2}$ obtained from M(H) and M(T)
curves as a function of temperature. The $H_{\rm c2}(0)^{M.H}$ and
$H_{\rm c2}(0)^{M.T}$ denoted by a solid circle and an open triangle are
estimated by linear extrapolation of the $H_{\rm c2}(T)$ curves obtained
from the M(H) and M(T) curves, respectively. The
$H_{\rm c2}(0)^{\rm WHH}$ estimated by the WHH formula is denoted by a
solid square.

Figure 7: Lower critical field $H_{\rm c1}$ as a function of
temperature. The $H_{\rm c1}$ data are fitted with the formula
$H_{\rm c1}$=$H_{\rm c1}(0)[1-(T/T_{\rm c})^{2}]$.

  ----------------------- ------
      $T_{\rm c}$ (K)      2.75
    $H_{\rm c}(0)$ (Oe)    280
   $H_{\rm c1}(0)$ (Oe)     54
   $H_{\rm c2}(0)$ (kOe)   3.0
         λ(0) (Å)          2480
         ξ(0) (Å)          330
           κ(0)            7.5
  ----------------------- ------

Table 3: Measured and derived superconducting parameters for La₃Pd₄Ge₄.

Figure 9: Temperature-dependent electrical resistivity ρ for La₃Pd₄Ge₄.
The detail of the region in the vicinity of $T_{\rm c}$ is shown in the
inset.

## IV Conclusions

We have prepared ternary germanide La₃Pd₄Ge₄ by arc melting. The crystal
structure of this compound is U₃Ni₄Si₄ type with the space group of
_Immm_, consisting of combination of structural units of AlB₂-type and
BaAl₄-type layers. The lattice parameters of the La₃Pd₄Ge₄ are a =
4.2200(3) A , b = 4.3850(3) A , and c = 25.003(2) A . dc magnetization
and electrical resistivity measurements indicated that the La₃Pd₄Ge₄ is
a type-II superconductor with a _Tc_ of 2.75 K. The lower critical field
H_(c1)(0) is 54 Oe. The upper critical fields H_(c2)(0) estimated by
linear extrapolation of the H_(c2)(T) curves obtained from the M(H) and
M(T) curves give H_(c2)(0)^(M : H)= 4.0 kOe and H_(c2)(0)^(M : T)= 4.1
kOe, respectively. On the other hand, the WHH theory gives
$H_{c2}(0)^{\rm WHH}$= 3.0 kOe.

## References

* [1] Z. Ban and M. Sikirica, Acta Crystallogr. **18**, 594 (1965). *
[2] G. W. Hull, J. H. Wernick, T. H. Geballe, J. V. Waszczak, and J. E.
Bernardini, Phys. Rev. B **24**, 6715 (1981). * [3] R. J. Cava, H.
Takagi, B. Batlogg, H. W. Zandbergen, J. J. Krajewski, W. F. Peck, Jr.,
R. B. van Dover, R. J. Felder, T. Siegrist, K. Mizuhashi, J. O. Lee, H.
Eisaki, S. A. Carter, and S. Uchida, Nature (London) **367**, 146
(1994). * [4] R. J. Cava, H. Takagi, H. W. Zandbergen, J. J. Krajewski,
W. F. Peck, Jr., T. Siegrist, B. Batlogg, R. B. van Dover, R. J. Felder,
K. Mizuhashi, J. O. Lee, H. Eisaki, and S. Uchida, Nature (London)
**367**, 252 (1994). * [5] R. J. Cava, B. Batlogg, T. Siegrist, J. J.
Krajewski, W. F. Peck, Jr., S. Carter, R. J. Felder, H. Takagi, and R.
B. van Dover, Phys. Rev. B **49**, 12384 (1994). * [6] H. Fujii, S.
Ikeda, T. Kimura, S-i. Arisawa, K. Hirata, H. Kumakura, K. Kadowaki, and
K. Togano, Jpn. J. Appl. Phys., Part 2 **33**, L590 (1994). * [7] J.
Nagamatsu, N. Nakagawa, T. Muranaka, Y. Zenitani, and J. Akimitsu,
Nature (London) **410**, 63 (2001). * [8] A. S. Cooper, E. Corenzwir, L.
D. Longinotti, B. T. Matthias, and W. H. Zachariasen, Proc. Natl. Acad.
Sci. U.S.A. **67**, 313 (1970). * [9] M. Imai, E. Abe, J. Ye, K.
Nishida, T. Kimura, K. Honma, H. Abe, and H. Kitazawa, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**87**, 077003 (2001). * [10] F. Izumi and T. Ikeda, Mater. Sci. Forum
**321-324**, 198 (2000). * [11] D. Rossi, R. Marazza, and R. Ferro, J.
Less-Common Met. **66**, P17 (1979). * [12] E. Hovestreyt, K. Klepp, and
E. Parthe, Acta Crystallogr., Sect. B: Struct. Crystallogr. Cryst. Chem.
**38**, 1803 (1982). * [13] P. Rogl, B. Chevalier, and J. Etourneau, J.
Solid State Chem. **88**, 429 (1990). * [14] R. A. Young, E. Prince, and
R. A. Sparks, J. Appl. Crystallogr. **15**, 357 (1982). * [15] W.
Rieger, Monatsch. Chem. **101**, 449 (1970). * [16] O. Liebrich, H.
Schafer, and A. Weiss, Z. Naturforsch. B **25**, 650 (1970). * [17] R.
E. Gladyshevskii, O. L. Sologub, and E. Parthe, J. Alloys Compd.
**176**, 329 (1991). * [18] Yu. M. Prot^(′), O. I. Bodak, V. K.
Pecharsky, P. S. Salamakha, and Yu. D. Seropegin, Z. Kristallogr.
**205**, 331 (1993). * [19] P. Salamakha, O. Sologub, J. K. Yakinthos,
and Ch. D. Routsi, J. Alloys Compd. **267**, 192 (1998). * [20] D.
Niepmann, Y. M. Prot^(′), R. Pottgen, and W. Jeitschko, J. Solid State
Chem. **154**, 329 (2000). * [21] R. J. Cava, H. W. Zandbergen, B.
Batologg, H. Eisaki, H. Takagi, J. J. Krajewski, W. F. Peck, Jr., E. M.
Gyorgy, and S. Uchida, Nature (London) **411**, 54 (2001). * [22] K.
Togano, P. Badica, Y. Nakamori, S. Orimo, H. Takeya, and K. Hirata,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **93**, 247004 (2004). * [23] H. Takagi, R. J. Cava, H.
Eisaki, J. O. Lee, K. Mizuhashi, B. Batlogg, S. Uchida, J. J. Krajewski,
and W. F. Peck, Jr., Physica C **228**, 389 (1994). * [24] C. Buzea and
T. Yamashita, Supercond. Sci. Technol. **14**, R115 (2001). * [25] L. S.
Hausermann-Berg and R. N. Shelton, Phys. Rev. B **35**, 4673 (1987). *
[26] E. Helfand and W. R. Werthamer, Phys. Rev. **147**, 288 (1966). *
[27] N. R. Werthamer, E. Helfand, and P. C. Hohemberg, Phys. Rev.
**147**, 295 (1966).
