# Superconductivity in LiFeO₂Fe₂Se₂ with anti-PbO-type spacer layers

X. F. Lu,¹ N. Z. Wang,¹ G. H. Zhang,^(2, 3) X. G. Luo,¹ Z. M. Ma,³ B.
Lei,¹ F. Q. Huang,^(2, 3,) and X. H. Chen^(1,)

¹Hefei National Laboratory for Physical Science at Microscale and
Department of Physics, University of Science and Technology of China,

Hefei, Anhui 230026, People’s Republic of China

²CAS Key Laboratory of Materials for Energy Conversion, Shanghai
Institute of Ceramics, Chinese Academy of Sciences,

Shanghai 200050, China

³Beijing National Laboratory for Molecular Sciences and State Key
Laboratory of Rare Earth Materials Chemistry and Applications, College
of Chemistry and Molecular Engineering, Peking University, Beijing
100871, China

Received 9 October 2013; revised manuscript received 11 December 2013;
published 22 January 2014

###### Abstract

We report on a superconductor LiFeO₂Fe₂Se₂ with $T_{\rm c}\sim 43$ K,
synthesized via the hydrothermal method. The anti-PbO-type spacer layer
of LiFeO₂ has been successfully intercalated between the anti-PbO-type
FeSe layer, which results in a high-$T_{\rm c}$ superconductivity in
this iron selenide material. In this material, the LiFeO₂ layer is
electrically neutral and does not act as an electron donor, which is
remarkably different from other heavily electron-doped intercalated
FeSe-derived superconductors. Based on our results and previous reports
on FeSe-based superconductors, we figure out a **V**-shaped anion height
from the Fe layer dependence of $T_{\rm c}$ in the FeSe-derived
superconductors, which is in contrast to the inverse V-shaped one for
the FeAs-based superconductors. Our studies expand the categories of the
iron-based superconductors and open a door in the quest for potential
superconductors with various spacer layers, which is helpful for the
study of the underlying physics in iron-based high-$T_{\rm c}$
superconductors.

pacs: 74.70.Xa, 74.10.+v, 74.62.Fj, 81.20.−n + Footnote †: preprint:
PHYSICAL REVIEW B **89**, 020507(R) (2013)

Superconductivity has been found in iron arsenides with a great
diversity of crystallographic structures by alternately stacking the
conducting FeAs layers and various spacer layers, including alkali or
alkali-earth metal ions and PbO- or perovskite-type oxide blocks.¹ ⁻ ¹⁰
A $T_{\rm c}$ as high as 55 K in FeAs-derived compounds has been
achieved in the _Ln_OFeAs compounds (111 phase, _Ln_ = La, Ce, Pr, Nd,
Sm, etc.) with PbO-type oxide spacer layers.¹⁰β-FeSe has a basic
structure similar to that of the FeAs layer in iron arsenide
superconductors, and shows superconductivity with $T_{\rm c}\sim 8$ K.¹¹
However, there exists a remarkable difference between these structural
elements. The Fe²⁺Se²⁻ layer is neutral, while the Fe²⁺As³⁻ layer
possesses negative charges. It is the electric neutrality that makes the
physical properties and structural categories of FeSe-derived compounds
different from those of the FeAs-derived compounds.

In iron selenides, metal ions and molecules have been intercalated
between adjacent FeSe layers as spacer layers to form superconductors
with high $T_{\rm c}$, such as A_(x)Fe_(2 − y)Se₂ (A = K, Rb, Cs, Tl/K
and Tl/Rb, etc.), Li_(x)(NH₂)₃(NH₃)_(1 − y)Fe₂Se₂, and
Li_(x)(C₃H₃N)_(y)Fe_(2 − z)Se₂.¹² ⁻ ¹⁸ In A_(x)Fe_(2 − y)Se₂ single
crystals, there are two distinct phases: a superconducting phase with
$T_{\rm c}\sim 32$ K and without Fe vacancies,¹⁹ and an insulating
antiferromagnetically ordered phase, K₃Fe₄Se₅, with a Neel transition
temperature of ∼560 K and a $\sqrt{5}\times\sqrt{5}$ order of Fe
vacancies.^(19, 20) However, the superconducting phase can be observed
only if it is in close proximity to the insulating one. It seems that
the insulating phase A_(x)Fe₄Se₅ plays a crucial role in the
superconductivity of A_(x)Fe_(2 − y)Se₂, and some indeed argue that it
is probably the parent compound for this type of material.²¹ Such
inhomogeneity makes the investigation of the underlying physics in
A_(x)Fe_(2 − y)Se₂ complicated. In alkali metal-molecular intercalated
iron selenide superconductors, the structures of the space layers are
relatively complex, and whether the space layers act as charge donors or
simply as spacer units is still a puzzle.¹⁶ ⁻ ¹⁸ In order to acquire a
better understanding of the underlying physics in FeSe-derived and other
related high-$T_{\rm c}$ superconductors, it is of significance to
search for superconductivity in intercalated FeSe systems with novel
spacer layers.

In this Rapid Communication, we report on an iron selenide
superconductor LiFeO₂Fe₂Se₂ with $T_{\rm c}\sim 43$ K and neutral
anti-PbO-type spacer layers, synthesized by the hydrothermal method. As
shown in Fig. 1(a), the structure of LiFeO₂Fe₂Se₂ is constructed by
alternately stacking the FeSe and LiFeO₂ layers. The LiFeO₂ is an
anti-PbO-type spacer layer and has a cation-disordered cubic rocksalt
structure (so-called α-LiFeO₂),²² which is different in structure from
the PbO-type _Ln_O layers in _Ln_OFeAs. In LiFeO₂ layers, Li and Fe
randomly occupy half by half of the same site, which makes the LiFeO₂
layers electrically neutral. Generally speaking, the charge neutral
nature of both FeSe and LiFeO₂ layers stops the charge transfer between
them, which makes LiFeO₂Fe₂Se₂ strikingly different from other heavily
electron-doped FeSe-derived superconductors.

Polycrystalline samples of LiFeO₂Fe₂Se₂ were prepared by the
hydrothermal reaction method. 0.012-0.02 mol selenourea (Alfa Aesar,
99.97

In order to get rid of the residua and to measure the transport
properties, the as-synthesized polycrystalline samples were pressed into
pellets and annealed at temperatures from 120 to 200 ^(∘)C for 5 h with
an applied high pressure from 2 to 5 GPa. X-ray diffraction (XRD) was
performed using an x-ray diffractometer (SmartLab-9, Rikagu Corp.) with
CuKα radiation and a fixed graphite monochromator. The XRD patterns were
collected in the 2-theta range of 5^(∘)-80^(∘) with a scanning rate of
0.1^(∘)/min at room temperature. The lattice parameters and the crystal
structure were refined using the Rietveld method in the program gSAS
package, and Thompson-Cox-Hastings functions with asymmetry corrections
were applied as reflection profiles. The magnetization measurements were
carried out by a superconducting quantum interference device magnetic
property measurement system (SQUID MPMS) (Quantum Design). To measure
the magnetizations under pressure, we put the sample in a Teflon cell
(EasyLab) with Daphne oil 7373 as the pressure media, and then placed
the Teflon cell in a copper-beryllium pressure cell (EasyLab) and
incorporated the pressure cell into the SQUID MPMS. The contribution of
background magnetization to the sample at 2 K was less than 5

Figure 1(b) shows the x-ray diffraction (XRD) pattern of the
as-synthesized LiFeO₂Fe₂Se₂ taken at room temperature. The refinement
fitting of the Rietveld analysis[24] was carried out with the structural
model shown in Fig. 1(a), with alternately stacking of the anti-PbO-type
FeSe and anti-PbO-type LiFeO₂ layers. All Bragg peaks of the product can
be well indexed by a tetragonal structure with space group P4/mmn (No.
129). The refinement pattern is shown in Fig. 1(b), and the
crystallographic parameters from the refinement are listed in Table 1.
The obtained lattice constants of the tetragonal LiFeO₂Fe₂Se₂ are
a = 3.7926(1) A and c = 9.2845(1) A, which has a much smaller a axis and
larger c-axis lattice parameters than those of LnOFeAs (for instance,
a = 4.0337 A, c = 8.7411 A for LaOFeAs),[25] respectively. The final R
factors are fairly small (R_(wp) = 0.0937), which is evidence for the
validity of the structural model we adopted. The unique bond distance of
Fe-Se is 2.4347(1) A and of Li(Fe)-O it is 2.0246(1) A. The rather large
distance, 3.6028(1) A, between Se and O suggests that there are likely
no chemical bonds (van der Waals gap) between neighboring FeSe and
LiFeO₂ layers.

The magnetic susceptibility (χ) as a function of temperature for
LiFeO₂Fe₂Se₂ is plotted in Fig. 2. The measurements were performed under
an external field of H = 10 Oe. The as-synthesized sample shows a round
diamagnetic transition around 40 K (see the inset), which is higher than
T_(c) ∼ 37 K observed in FeSe under pressure,[26] and a considerable
shielding fraction of 44

In the low-temperature solution synthetic route, the small sizes of the
crystalline grains in the product can reduce the superconducting
shielding fraction. To further enhance the sample quality, we applied a
high-pressure annealing technique to get rid of the residual solution.
The LiFeO₂Fe₂Se₂ sample was annealed under a high pressure of 5 GPa at
T = 150 ^(∘)C for 5 h, and its magnetic susceptibility is shown in Fig.
2(b). The sharp drop of χ at ∼43 K suggests that the high-pressure
annealing procedure effectively enhanced the superconducting transition
temperature T_(c). The temperature-dependent electrical resistance of
the annealed LiFeO₂Fe₂Se₂ sample is also measured, as shown in Fig. S1
of the Supplemental Material,[23] which shows a clear drop starting at
42 K in zero field, almost the same as the T_(c) inferred from the
measurements of magnetic susceptibility. Zero resistance was achieved at
around 20 K. The quite

Figure 1: (Color online) (a) A schematic view of the structure of
LiFeO₂Fe₂Se₂. The layered structure consists of alternately stacking
anti-PbO-type FeSe layers and LiFeO₂ layers. (b) XRD patterns together
with Rietveld refinement results. The observed diffraction intensities
are represented by yellow-green open circles, and the fitting results by
the red solid line. The blue curve at the bottom is the difference
between observed and fitting intensities. Short black vertical bars
below the XRD patterns indicate the positions of allowed Bragg
reflections.

broad superconducting transition width (more than 20 K) arises from the
weak links between the grains, consistent with the negative slope of the
normal-state resistance. With an applied magnetic field of 7 T, the
temperature where resistance starts to drop was suppressed to 34 K and
the transition became rounder. Our data in Fig. 2 also indicate that the
annealing procedure improved the diamagnetism. In the zero-field-cooling
process, the χ of the annealed sample shows a superconducting shielding
fraction of 53

Figure 3(a) presents the magnetization of annealed LiFeO₂Fe₂Se₂ under
various pressures with H = 10 Oe in the zero-field-cooling process, and
Fig. 3(b) summarizes the pressure dependence of $T_{\rm c}$. The
$T_{\rm c}$ monotonically decreases with increasing external pressure,
indicating the suppression effect of pressure on superconductivity in
LiFeO₂Fe₂Se₂. As the external pressure increases from 0 to 1 GPa,
$T_{\rm c}$ decreases by ∼5 K with a negative slope
$d[T_{\rm c}/T_{\rm c}(0)]/dP\sim-0.12$ GPa⁻¹. This value is larger than
that observed in K_(x)Fe_(2 − y)Se₂ single crystals.[30] The difference
can be attributed to the much larger height of the anion from the Fe
layer (h) in LiFeO₂Fe₂Se₂ (1.527 A, inferred from the refined parameters
in Table 1) than that in K_(x)Fe_(2 − y)Se₂ (1.459 A, calculated from
the crystallographic data in Ref. [12]). As will be discussed later, the
$T_{\rm c}$ is closely related to the chalcogen height, which can be
easily suppressed by external pressure.[27]

In the FeAs-derived superconductors, $T_{\rm c}$ is found to be closely
correlated to the anion height (h) from the Fe plane within the FePn (Pn
= As, P) layer.[28] As shown in Fig. 1 of Ref. [28], $T_{\rm c}$ reaches
a maximum at h₀≈ 1.38 A and decreases rapidly with a deviation of h from
h₀. We can also examine this correlation for FeSe-derived compounds. In
Fig. 4, we plot

Figure 3: (Color online) (a) The magnetizations (M) taken under various
external pressures with H = 10 Oe in the ZFC mode. Before the
measurement, the LiFeO₂Fe₂Se₂ sample was annealed under a high pressure
of 5 GPa at T = 150 ^(∘)C for 5 h. The inset shows the zoom-in view
around the superconducting transitions. The arrow shows the beginning of
the drop of M at 1 GPa, which represents the way to define $T_{\rm c}$
as shown in (b). (b) Pressure dependence of the superconducting
transition temperatures $T_{\rm c}$.

Figure 2: (Color online) (a) The magnetic susceptibility of the
as-synthesized LiFeO₂Fe₂Se₂ sample from the hydrothermal method. (b) The
magnetic susceptibility of the sample after annealing under a high
pressure of 5 GPa at T = 150 ^(∘)C for 5 h. Solid symbols: Zero-field
cooling (ZFC); open symbols: field cooling (FC). These data were
collected under a magnetic field of 10 Oe. The inset in (a) is the
zoom-in view around the superconducting transition of the as-synthesized
sample. The bottom inset of (b) is the zoom-in view for ZFC data around
the superconducting transition of the annealed sample, which indicates
$T_{\rm c}\sim$ 43 K. The top inset of (b) is the M-H loop taken at 5 K
for the annealed sample, where a linear H dependence of M with a
negative slope can be recognized below 300 Oe in the low-field range (as
the magenta arrow indicates).

as a function of chalcogen (Se) height from the Fe layer for
FeSe-derived superconductors, which shows that the $T_{\rm c}$ is also
related to the anion height in iron selenide superconductors. It is
evident that $T_{\rm c}$ monotonically increases when the anion height
from the Fe layer deviates from 1.45 A to a lower or a higher value.
Such a V-shaped h dependence of $T_{\rm c}$ in FeSe-derived
superconductors is in sharp contrast to the inverse V-shaped one in
FeAs-based superconductors. In LiFeO₂Fe₂Se₂, the anion height is 1.527
A, which is much larger than the value of 1.45 A in FeSe.[29] By
applying external pressure, the value of the anion height can be
reduced, and according to the plot in Fig. 4, $T_{\rm c}$ should
decrease. Indeed, this is what we have observed in LiFeO₂Fe₂Se₂, as
shown in Fig. 3(b). A similar pressure dependence of $T_{\rm c}$ has
been observed also in K_(x)Fe_(2 − y)Se₂,[27, 30] which is consistent
with the general trend for compounds with a large anion height shown in
Fig. 4.

Both the LiFeO₂ and FeSe layers in LiFeO₂Fe₂Se₂ are electrically
neutral, so the LiFeO₂ layers do not act as electron donors, while other
FeSe-derived superconductors with a Se height larger than 1.45 A are
heavily electron doped. In this regard, changing the carrier
concentration by the ratio of Li/Fe can probably control $T_{\rm c}$ or
achieve a higher $T_{\rm c}$ in LiFeO₂Fe₂Se₂. In addition, it is
reported that the extension of the lattice in the ab plane can lead to
an increase of $T_{\rm c}$.[31] Thus, it is possible to increase
$T_{\rm c}$ by adjusting the anion height or lattice constants of the ab
plane with different spacer layers in FeSe-derived superconductors. On
the other hand, as reported in Ref. [32], α-LiFeO₂ shows
antiferromagnetic with a large effective moment of 4.53(3)μ_(B) and a
Weiss constant of −186(3) K, and the magnetic transition temperature is
dependent on the degree of cation ordering. Since the spin degree of
freedom plays an important role in iron-based high-$T_{\rm c}$
superconductors.[33], it is quite significant to study the effect of
magnetism in the LiFeO₂ layer on the FeSe layer to understand
high-$T_{\rm c}$ superconductivity.

In the present work, we have synthesized a FeSe-based layered material
LiFeO₂Fe₂Se₂ through the hydrothermal reaction method, in which an
anti-PbO-type LiFeO₂ spacer layer was intercalated between FeSe layers.
The superconductivity then can reach as high as 43 K, which is much
higher than 8 K in β-FeSe. This work expands the categories of
iron-based superconductors and opens a window to achieve higher
$T_{\rm c}$ in iron-based superconductors.

The authors are grateful for discussions with Z. Sun and T. Wu, and help
with manuscript preparation by Z. Sun. This work is supported by the
National Natural Science Foundation of China (Grants No. 11190021, No.
51125006, and No. 91122034), the "Strategic Priority Research Program
(B)" of the Chinese Academy of Sciences (Grant No. XDB04040100), and the
National Basic Research Program of China (973 Program, Grant No.
2011CBA00101).

## References

* [1] Y. Kamihara, T. Watanabe, M. Hirano, and H. Hosono, J. Am. Chem.
Soc. **130**, 3296 (2008). * [2] X. H. Chen, T. Wu, G. Wu, R. H. Liu, H.
Chen, and D. F. Fang, Nature (London) **453**, 761 (2008). * [3] M.
Rotter, M. Tegel, and D. Johrendt, Phys. Rev. Lett. **101**, 107006
(2008). * [4] K. Sasmal, B. Lv, B. Lorenz, A. M. Guloy, F. Chen, Y.-Y.
Xue, and C.-W. Chu, Phys. Rev. Lett. **101**, 107007 (2008). * [5] X. C.
Wang, Q. Q. Liu, Y. X. Lv, W. B. Gao, L. X. Yang, R. C. Yu, F. Y. Li,
and C. Q. Jin, Solid State Commun. **148**, 538 (2008). * [6] P. M.
Shirage, K. Kihou, C. H. Lee, H. Kito, H. Eisaki, and A. Lyo, Appl.
Phys. Lett. **97**, 172506 (2010). * [7] P. M. Shirage, K. Kihou, C. H.
Lee, H. Kito, H. Eisaki, and A. Lyo, J. Am. Chem. Soc. **133**, 9630
(2011). * [8] D. R. Parker, M. J. Pitcher, P. J. Baker, I. Franke, T.
Lancaster, S. J. Blundell, and S. J. Clarke, Chem. Commun. **2009**,
2189 (2009). * [9] Z. A. Ren, G. C. Che, X. L. Dong, J. Yang, W. Lu, W.
Yi, X. L. Shen, Z. C. Li, L. L. Sun, F. Zhou, and Z. X. Zhao, Europhys.
Lett. **83**, 17002 (2008). * [10] Z. A. Ren, W. Lu, J. Yang, W. Yi, X.
L. Shen, Z. C. Li, G. C. Che, X. L. Dong, L. L. Sun, F. Zhou, and Z. X.
Zhao, Chin. Phys. Lett. **25**, 2215 (2008). * [11] F. C. Hsu, J. Y.
Luo, K. W. Yeh, T. K. Chen, T. W. Huang, P. M. Wu, Y. Y. Lee, Y. L.
Huang, Y. Y. Chu, D. C. Yan, and M. K. Wu, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA
**105**, 14262 (2008). * [12] J. Guo, S. Jin, G. Wang, S. Wang, K. Zhu,
T. Zhou, M. He, and X. Chen, Phys. Rev. B **82**, 180520(R) (2010). *
[13] M. H. H. D. Wang, C. H. Dong, Z. J. Li, C. M. Feng, J. Chen, and H.
Q. Yuan, Europhys. Lett. **94**, 27009 (2011).

Figure 4: (Color online) $T_{\rm c}$ vs chalcogen (Se) height for the
FeSe-derived superconductors. The data for FeSe under high pressure are
from Ref. [29], indicated by blue solid squares. Red solid circles are
the data of the intercalated FeSe superconductors from Ref. [12]
(K_(x)Fe_(2 − y)Se₂), Ref. [6] Li_(0.6)(NH₂)_(0.2)(NH₃)_(0.8)Fe₂Se₂, and
the present work.

* (14) A. F. Wang, J. J. Ying, Y. J. Yan, R. H. Liu, X. G. Luo, Z. Y.
Li, X. F. Wang, M. Zhang, G. J. Ye, P. Cheng, Z. J. Xiang, and X. H.
Chen, Phys. Rev. B **83**, 060512(R) (2011). * (15) T. P. Ying, X. L.
Chen, G. Wang, S. F. Jin, T. T. Zhou, X. F. Lai, H. Zhang, and W. Y.
Wang, Sci. Rep. **2**, 426 (2012). * (16) M. Burrard-Lucas, D. G. Free,
S. J. Sedlmaier, J. D. Wright, S. J. Cassidy, Y. Hara, A. J. Corkett, T.
Lancaster, P. J. Baker, S. J. Blundell, and S. J. Clarke, Nat. Mater.
**12**, 15 (2013). * (17) A. Krzon-Maziopa, E. V. Pomjakushina, V. Y.
Pomjakushin, F. von Rohr, A. Schilling, and K. Conder, J. Phys.:
Condens. Matter **24**, 382202 (2012). * (18) E.-W. Scheidt, V. R.
Hathwar, D. Schmitz, A. Dunbar, W. Scherer, F. Mayr, V. Tsurkan, J.
Deisenhofer, and A. Loidl, Eur. Phys. J. B **85**, 279 (2012). * (19) W.
Li, H. Ding, P. Deng, K. Chang, C. Song, K. He, L. Wang, X. Ma, J.-P.
Hu, X. Chen, and Q.-K. Xue, Nat. Phys. **8**, 126 (2012). * (20) W. Bao,
Q. Z. Huang, G. F. Chen, M. A. Green, D. M. Wang, J. B. He, and Y. M.
Qiu, Chin. Phys. Lett. **28**, 086104 (2011). * (21) W. Bao, G. N. Li,
Q. Z. Huang, G. F. Chen, J. B. He, D. M. Wang, M. A. Green, Y. M. Qiu,
J. L. Luo, and M. M. Wu, Chin. Phys. Lett. **30**, 027402 (2013). * (22)
T. Shirane, R. Kanno, Y. Kawamoto, Y. Takeda, M. Takano, T. Kamiyama,
and F. Izumi, Solid State Ionics **79**, 227 (1995). * (23) See
Supplemental Material at
http://link.aps.org/supplemental/10.1103/PhysRevB.89.020507 for results
of the resistance measurements on the annealed sample, degradation of
superconductivity at room temperature in an inert atmosphere, and the
decomposition at high temperature for the LiFeO₃Fe₂Se₂ sample. * (24) A.
C. Larson and R. B. Von Dreele, Los Alamos National Laboratory Report
No. LAUR 86-748, 1994 (unpublished). * (25) T. Nomura, S. W. Kim, Y.
Kamihara, M. Hirano, P. V. Sushko, K. Kato, M. Takata, A. L. Shluger,
and H. Hosono, Supercond. Sci. Technol. **21**, 125028 (2008). * (26) S.
Medvedev, T. M. McQueen, I. A. Troyan, T. Palasyuk, M. I. Eremets, R. J.
Cava, S. Naghavi, F. Casper, V. Ksenofontov, G. Wortmann, and C. Felser,
Nat. Mater. **8**, 630 (2009). * (27) L. L. Sun, X. J. Chen, J. Guo, P.
W. Gao, Q. Z. Huang, H. D. Wang, M. H. Fang, X. L. Chen, G. F. Chen, Q.
Wu, C. Zhang, D. C. Gu, X. L. Dong, L. Wang, K. Yang, A. G. Li, X. Dai,
H. K. Mao, and Z. X. Zhao, Nature (London) **483**, 67 (2012). * (28) Y.
Mizuguchi, Y. Hara, K. Deguchi, S. Tsuda, T. Yamaguchi, K. Takeda, H.
Kotegawa, H. Tou, and Y. Takano, Supercond. Sci. Technol. **23**, 054013
(2010). * (29) S. Margadonna, Y. Takabayashi, Y. Ohishi, Y. Mizuguchi,
Y. Takano, T. Kagayama, T. Nakagawa, M. Takata, and K. Prassides, Phys.
Rev. B **80**, 064506 (2009). * (30) J. J. Ying, X. F. Wang, X. G. Luo,
Z. Y. Li, Y. J. Yan, M. Zhang, A. F. Wang, P. Cheng, G. J. Ye, Z. J.
Xiang, R. H. Liu, and X. H. Chen, New J. Phys. **13**, 033008 (2011). *
(31) S. Y. Tan, Y. Zhang, M. Xia, Z. R. Ye, F. Chen, X. Xie, R. Peng, D.
F. Xu, Q. Fan, H. C. Xu, J. Jiang, T. Zhang, X. C. Lai, T. Xiang, J. P.
Hu, B. P. Xie, and D. L. Feng, Nat. Mater. **12**, 634 (2013). * (32) M.
Tabuchi, S. Tsutsui, C. Masquelier, R. Kanno, K. Ado, I. Matsubara, S.
Nasu, and H. Kageyama, J. Solid State Chem. **140**, 159 (1998). * (33)
G. R. Stewart, Rev. Mod. Phys. **83**, 1589 (2011).
