Fermi-liquid behavior and weakly anisotropic superconductivity in the
electron-doped cuprate Sr1-xLa2CuO2

Kohki H. Satoh

Soshi Takeshita

Akihiro Koda

Ryosuke Kadono

Kenji Ishida

Sunsen Pyon

Department of Materials Structure Science, The Graduate University for
Advanced Studies, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 305-0801, Japan Institute of
Materials Structure Science, High Energy Accelerator Research
Organization, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 305-0801, Japan

Takao Sasagawa

Institute of Materials Structure Science, High Energy Accelerator
Research Organization, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 305-0801, Japan Department of
Physics, Graduate School of Science, Kyoto University, Kyoto 606-8502,
Japan Department of Advanced Materials Science, University of Tokyo,
Kashiwa, Chiba 277-8561, Japan

###### Abstract

The microscopic details of flux-line lattice state studied by muon spin
rotation are reported in an electron-doped high-T_(c) cuprate
superconductor, Sr1-xLaCuO2 (SLCO) (_x_ = 0.10−0.15). A clear sign of
phase separation between magnetic and nonmagnetic phases is observed,
where the effective magnetic penetration depth [λ = λ(T, H)] is
determined selectively for the latter phase. The extremely small value
of λ(0, 0) and corresponding large superfluid density (n_(s)∝λ⁻²) is
consistent with the presence of a large Fermi surface with carrier
density of 1+x, which suggests the breakdown of the "doped Mott
insulator" even at the "optimal doping" in SLCO. Moreover, a relatively
weak anisotropy in the superconducting order parameter is suggested by
the field dependence of λ(0, H). These observations strongly suggest
that the superconductivity in SLCO is of a different class from
hole-doped cuprates.

pacs: 74.25.Qt, 74.72.−h, 76.75.+i + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL
REVIEW B **77**, 224503 (2008)

The question whether or not the mechanism of superconductivity in
electron-doped (n-type) cuprates is common to that in hole-doped
(p-type) cuprates is one of the most interesting issues in the field of
cuprate superconductors, which is yet to be answered. This
"electron-hole symmetry" has been addressed by many experiments and
theories since the discovery of n-type cuprate superconductors.[1] In
the theoretical models assuming strong electronic correlation where the
infinitely large on-site Coulomb interaction (U→∞) leads to the Mott
insulating phase for the half filled band, the correlation among the
doped carriers is projected into the t-J model in which the mechanism of
superconductivity does not depend on the sign of charge carriers.[2, 3]
This is in marked contrast to the models starting from Fermi-liquid
(=normal metal) state, where such symmetry is irrelevant to their basic
framework.[4] Experimentally, recent advent in crystal-growth techniques
and that in experimental methods for evaluating their electronic
properties triggered detailed measurements on n-type cuprates, reporting
interesting results suggesting certain differences from p-type ones,
such as the observation of a commensurate spin fluctuations in
neutron-scattering study or the nonmonotonic d-wave superconducting
order parameter in angle-resolved photoelectron spectroscopy (ARPES)
measurement.[5, 6]

The effective magnetic penetration depth (λ) is one of the most
important physical quantities directly related to the superfluid density
(n_(s)),

$$\frac{1}{\lambda^{2}}=\frac{n_{s}e^{2}}{m^{*}c},$$
(1)

which is reflected in the microscopic field profile of the flux-line
lattice (FLL) state in type II superconductors. Considering that the
response of n_(s) against various perturbations strongly depends on the
characters of the Cooper pairing, the comparison of n_(s) between two
types of carriers might serve as a testing ground for the electron-hole
symmetry. However, the study of FLL state in n-type cuprates such as
T^(′)-phase RE2CuO4 compounds (RE=Nd, Pr, Sm, etc.) is far behind that
in p-type cuprates because of strong random local fields from rare-earth
ions which mask information of CuO2 planes regarding both
superconductivity and magnetism against magnetic probes such as muon. In
this regard, infinite-layer structured Sr1-xLa2CuO2 (SLCO) is a suitable
compound for detailed muon spin relaxation and rotation (μSR) study of
electron-doped systems, as it is free from magnetic rare-earth ions.

A recent μSR study on SLCO with x=0.10 (T_(c)≃ 40 K) reported a
relatively large n_(s)∝$\lambda_{\rm 26}^{-}$ [$\lambda_{\rm ab}(T$→ 0)∼
116 nm] as compared to p-type cuprates,[9] strongly suggesting that
n-type cuprates belong to a different class in view of the n_(s) versus
T_(c) relation.[8] On the other hand, another μSR study showed the
appearance of a spin-glass-like magnetism over a wide temperature range
including superconducting phase,[9] which might have also affected the
result of Ref. [7]. In this paper, we demonstrate by μSR measurements
under both zero field (ZF) and high transverse field (HTF) that SLCO
exhibits a phase separation into magnetic and nonmagnetic phases, where
the superconductivity occurs predominantly in the latter. Our
measurement made it feasible to evaluate λ reliably as it was
selectively determined for the nonmagnetic phase of SLCO.

Meanwhile, the pairing symmetry of order parameter, which is one of the
most important issues in discussing the electron-hole symmetry, still
remains controversial in n-type cuprates. A number of groups reported
s-wave symmetry in SLCO,[10, 11] which is in marked contrast to the
d_(x² − y²) symmetry well established in p-type cuprates. The pairing
symmetry can be examined by measuring the temperature and/or field
variation of λ(T, H) as an _effective_ value observed by μSR: it
reflects the change in n_(s)=n_(s)(T, H) due to quasiparticle excitation
and/or nonlocal effect associated with anisotropic or der parameter.[12,
13] Here, we show evidence that the order parameter in SLCO is not
described by simple isotropic s-wave pairing nor that of pure
d_(x² → y²).

Powder samples of SLCO (x=0.10, 0.125, and 0.15) were prepared by
high-pressure synthesis under 6 GPa at 1000 ^(∘)C. They were confirmed
to be of single phase by powder x-ray diffraction, where a small amount
of LaCuO_(2.5) phase (LCO2.5, less than a few percent) was identified.
The length of a and c axes showed almost linear change with x,
indicating successful substitution of Sr with La for carrier doping.[14]
As displayed in Fig. 1(a), the susceptibility (χ₀) measured by
superconducting quantum interference device magnetometer implies that
the onset of superconductivity is nearly 42 K and least dependent on x,
whereas the bulk T_(c) determined by the maximum of dχ₀/dT varies with x
[see Fig. 1(b)], which reproduces earlier results.[15, 16] The x
dependence of bulk T_(c) suggests that the sample is close to the
optimal doping for x=0.1.

The μSR experiment was performed on the M15 beamline at TRIUMF
(Vancouver, Canada), where measurements under ZF and longitudinal field
(LF) were made to investigate magnetic ground state of SLCO.
Subsequently, those under a HTF (up to 6 T) were made to study the FLL
state in detail. In ZF and LF measurements, a pair of scintillation
counters (in backward and forward geometry relative to the initial muon
polarization that was parallel to the beam direction) were employed for
the detection of positron emitted preferentially to the muon
polarization upon its decay. In HTF measurements, sample was at the
center of four position counters placed around the beam axis, and
initial muon spin polarization was perpendicular to the muon beam
direction so that the magnetic field can be applied along the beam
direction without interfering with beam trajectory. A veto countersystem
was employed to eliminate background signals from the muons that missed
the sample, which was crucial for samples available only in small
quantities such as those obtained by high-pressure synthesis. For the
measurements under a transverse field, the sample was field-cooled to
the target temperature to minimize the effect of flux pinning.

Figure 2(a) shows ZF-μSR spectra for the sample with x=0.125, where no
spontaneous muon precession is observed as sample is cooled down to 2 K.
Instead, fast muon spin depolarization can be identified between
0<<t<0.2 μs, which develops with decreasing temperature. LF-μSR spectra
in Fig. 3(a) show that the depolarization is quenched in two steps as a
function of field strength, at first near a few millitesla due to
nuclear magnetic moments and second around 10¹ mT. The asymptotic
behavior of P_(z)(t) under random local fields H (with an isotropic mean
square, ⟨H_(s^(′))²⟩ =⟨H_(s^(′))²⟩ =⟨H_(s^(′))²⟩
=$\frac{1}{3}\langle H^{2}\rangle$) as a function of external magnetic
field $H_{\rm LF}$ is approximately given by the following equation:

Figure 2: (Color online) (a) ZF-μSR spectra in the sample with x=0.125.
Inset (b) is temperature dependence of the volume fraction of magnetic
and nonmagnetic phases.

Figure 1: (Color online) (a) Magnetic susceptibility of SLCO with
x=0.10, 0.125, and 0.15 under 20 G. (b) La concentration dependence of
T_(c). The closed symbols show $T_{\rm center}$ and the open symbols
show $T_{\rm bulk}$, respectively. An earlier result (Ref. [15])
(triangles) is also quoted for comparison. The dashed line is guide for
the eyes.

Figure 3: (Color online) (a) LF-μSR spectra in the sample with x=0.125.
(b) Two kinds of decoupling behavior at 50 K. The dashed line is fitting
curb by Eq. (2)

$$P_{z}(t\rightarrow\infty)=\frac{H_{\rm LF}^{2}+\langle H_{z}^{2}\rangle}{H_{\rm LF}^{ 2}+\langle H^{2}\rangle}=\frac{H_{\rm LF}^{2}+\frac{1}{3}\langle H^{2}\rangle}{H_ {\rm LF}^{2}+\langle H^{2}\rangle},$$
(2)

and we estimated the magnitude of
$\langle\overline{\langle H^{2}\rangle}\rangle$ =
$\overline{H}_{\rm int}$ from the behavior of P_(z)(t → ∞) as 39(3) mT
[the best fit with Eq. (2) is shown in Fig. 3(b)]. This is consistent
with the fast initial depolarization rate estimated by
$\gamma_{\mu}\vec{H}_{\rm int}$ = 33(3) MHz (where γ_(μ) = 2 π× 135.53
MHz/T is the muon gyromagnetic ratio). The origin of $\vec{H}_{\rm int}$
can be uniquely attributed to the localized moment of Cu atoms, where
the effective moment size is 0.15(1)μ_(B). The almost negligible
depolarization for the asymptotic component implies that
spin-fluctuation rate is much smaller than
$\gamma_{\mu}\vec{H}_{\rm int}$ at 50 K. Thus, ZF/LF-μSR results
strongly suggest that the sample that exhibits superconductivity has
also static magnetic phase. The magnetic region enlarges to a halfway
partition at low temperature [as seen in Fig. 2(b)]. We note that a
common tendency was observed for x = 0.10 and 0.15.

In HTF-μSR, each pair of counters (right-left, upward-downward) observes
time-dependent muon spin polarization, P̂(t), projected to the x or y
axis perpendicular to the beam direction (with a relative phase shift of
π/2). Inhomogeneity of magnetic-field distribution $B({\bf r})$ leads to
depolarization due to the loss of phase coherence among muons probing
different parts of $B({\bf r})$. Using a complex notation, P̂(t) is
directly provided using the spectral density distribution for the
internal field, n(B),

P̂(t) = P_(x)(t) + iP_(y)(t) = ∫_(−∞)^(∞)n(B)e^(i(γ_(μ)Bt − ϕ))dB,
(3)

where n(B) is defined as a spatial average (⟨ ⟩_(r)) of the delta
function,

$$n(B)=\langle\vec{\delta}\{B-B({\bf r})\}\rangle_{r},$$
(4)

and ϕ is the initial phase of muon spin rotation. Then, the real part of
fast Fourier transform (FFT) of μSR time spectrum corresponds to n(B),
namely,

n(B) = ℜ∫_(−∞)^(∞)P̂(t)e^(−i(γ_(μ)Bt − ϕ))dt.
(5)

Figure 4 shows the real amplitudes obtained by the FFT of HTF-μSR
spectra, which contain information on n(B). The narrow central peak
(labeled A) is the signal from muons stopped in a nonmagnetic (and/or
nonsuperconducting) phase where the frequency is equal to that of the
external field ($\mu_{0}H_{\rm ext}$ = 6 T) with a linewidth determined
by random nuclear dipolar fields besides the effect of limited time
window (0 ≤ t ≤ 6 μs). A broad satellite peak (labeled B) appears on the
positive side of the central peak, when temperature is lowered below 300
K. This corresponds to the fast depolarization in time domain. The
ZF/LF-μSR spectra in Figs. 2 and 3 demonstrate that this satellite comes
from a magnetic phase in which quasistatic random magnetism of Cu
electron spins develops.

While the FFT spectra were useful to examine the overall feature of
n(B), the actual data analysis was carried out in time domain using the
χ²-minimizing method. As inferred by Fig. 4, the μSR spectra in the
normal state can be reproduced by a sum of two Gaussian damping signals,

$$\hat{P}_{n}(t) = \sum_{k=1}^{2}f_{k}\int_{-\infty}^{\infty}n_{k}(B)e^{i(\gamma_{\mu }Bt-\phi)}dB$$
(6)
$$= \sum_{k=1}^{2}f_{k}\exp(-\sigma_{k}^{2}t^{2}/2)e^{i(\alpha_{k}t- \phi)},$$

where f_(k) is the relative yield proportional to the fractional volume
of each phase, σ_(k) is the linewidth, and ω_(k) = γ_(μ)B⃗_(k), with
B⃗_(k) being the mean value of local magnetic field following a Gaussian
distribution,

$$n_{k}(B)=(\sqrt{2}\pi\sigma_{k})^{-1}\exp[-\gamma_{\mu}^{2}(B-\vec{B}_{k})^{2 }/2\sigma_{k}^{2}].$$

It is inferred from the χ²-minimizing fit of the time spectra by Eq. (6)
that the volume fraction of magnetic phase increases toward low
temperature monotonously in place of nonmagnetic phase and becomes
nearly a half at 50 K. This is clearly not due to the LCO2.5 impurity
phase, considering the small volume fraction of LCO2.5 and its known
Neel temperature (∼125 K).[17] The magnetic volume fraction is
independent of $H_{\rm ext}$ at 50 K where the sample is in the normal
state. Thus, the appearance of the satellite peak demonstrates the
occurrence of a phase separation into magnetic and nonmagnetic domains
in the normal state of SLCO.

Taking the result in the normal state into consideration, we analyzed
the μSR spectra in the superconducting phase. In the FLL state of type
II superconductors, one can reasonably assume that muon stops randomly
over the length scale of vortex lattice and serves to provide a random
sampling of inhomogeneity due to FLL formation. In the modified

Figure 4: (Color online) Fast Fourier transform of HTF-μSR spectra under
6 T [after filtering the artifacts due to a finite time window for
transform (0 ≤ t ≤ 6 μs)]. The peaks labeled A, B, and C correspond to
nonmagnetic and/or nonsuperconducting, magnetic, and FLL phases,
respectively.

London (m-London) model, $B({\bf r})$ is approximated as a sum of
magnetic inductions from isolated vortices,

$$B_{v}({\bf r}) = B_{0}{\sum\limits_{\bf K}{\frac{e^{-i{\bf K} \cdot{\bf r}}}{1 + K^{2}\lambda^{2}}F(K,\xi_{v})}},$$

where **K** are the vortex reciprocal-lattice vectors, B₀
($\simeq\mu_{0}H_{\rm ext}$) is the average internal field, λ = λ(T, H)
is the effective London penetration depth depending on temperature and
field, and F(K, ξ_(v)) = exp(−K²ξ_(v)²/2) is a nonlocal correction term
with ξ_(v) (≃ξ) being the cutoff parameter for the magnetic-field
distribution; the Gaussian cutoff generally provides satisfactory
agreement with data. The density distribution n(B) in this case is
characterized by the Van Hove singularity originating from the saddle
points of $B_{v}({\bf r})$ with a negative shift primarily determined by
λ and that corresponds to the peak (seen as a shoulder) labeled C in
Fig. 4. Thus, the signal from the FLL state can be readily separated
from other phases at large $H_{\rm ext}$ as they exhibit different
frequency shifts with each other. The FFT spectra below T_(c) also
indicate that the domain size of the superconducting phase is much
greater than that determined by λ.

It is known that the m-London model is virtually identical to the
Ginzburg-Landau (GL) model for large κ = λ/ξ (ξ is the GL coherence
length) and at low magnetic fields ($H_{\rm ext}$/H_(c2)< 0.25, with
H_(c2) being the upper critical field).[18, 19] Meanwhile, according to
a reported value of the upper critical field for SLCO (μ₀H_(c2) = 12 T,
in Ref. [20]), the field range of the present measurements (0
≤$\mu_{0}H_{\rm ext}$ ≤ 6 T) might exceed the above mentioned boundary,
and thus the use of the GL model would be more appropriate. However, the
m-London model has certain advantages over the GL model in practical
application to the analysis: for example, we can avoid further
complexity of analysis due to introduction of the field-dependent
effective coherence length.[12] We also stress that the discrepancy in
the analysis results has been studied in detail between these two
models, and now it is well established that m-London model exhibits a
systematic tendency of slight overestimation of λ at higher fields due
to a known cause.[12, 19] The discussion on the present result will be
made below considering this tendency.

Another uncertainty comes from the fact that the FLL symmetry in SLCO is
not known at this stage, and it might even depend on the magnitude of
external field as has been found in some other cuprates.[21, 22]
However, since we do not observe any abrupt change in line shape nor the
increase in χ² in the fits (irrespective of model) associated with the
alteration of FLL symmetry with varying field,[23, 24] we can reasonably
assume that the FLL symmetry remains the same throughout entire field
range. Moreover, the observed line shape is perfectly in line with the
hexagonal FLL, without showing any sign of squared FLL (e.g., a large
spectral weight at the lower field side of the central peak in the
absence of nonlocal effect[25] or an enhanced weight at the central peak
associated with the strong nonlocal effect[24]). Therefore, the FLL
symmetry has been assumed to be hexagonal in the following analysis.

The μSR spectra in the FLL state were analyzed by fit analysis using

P̂(t) = P̂_(v)(t) + P̂_(v)(t),

P̂_(v)(t) = f_(v)e^(−σ_(p)²t²)∫n_(v)(B)e^(i(γ_(p)Bt − ϕ))dB,

$$n_{v}(B) = \langle\vec{\delta}\{B-B_{v}({\bf r})\}\rangle_{r},$$

where f_(v) is the volume fraction of FLL phase, σ_(p) represents the
contribution from the distortion of FLL due to vortex pinning and that
due to nuclear random local fields, and P̂_(n)(t) is that defined in Eq.
(6). The parameters including f_(v), λ, ξ_(v), σ_(p), f_(k), σ_(k), and
ω_(k) were determined by the χ²-minimization method with good fits as
inferred from the value of reduced χ² close to unity. (More
specifically, in order to reduce the uncertainty for the analysis of
data below T_(c), ω_(k) was fixed to the value determined by the data
above T_(c).) The magnitude of line broadening due to vortex pinning
(σ_(p)) was relatively small (typically 30

Figure 5(a) shows a decreasing tendency of ξ_(v) with increasing field,
which is understood as a shrinkage of vortex core due to vortex-vortex
interaction.[19] Figure 5(b) shows the field dependence of fractional
yield for each phase at 2 K. With increasing field, the FLL phase
appears to be transformed into the magnetic phase. However, it must be
noted that there is a discontinuous change between ZF (∼ 50

Figure 5: (Color online) (a) Field dependence of cutoff parameter and
(b) volume fraction of each phase at 2 K for the sample with x = 0.125,
where dashed curves are guide for the eyes. [(c)–(e)] Field dependence
of effective penetration depth at 2 K for x = 0.10, 0.125, and 0.15,
respectively. The dashed lines are a linear fit (see text).

∼ 50 K), the reduction of the magnetic fraction at lower fields is
attributed to the overlap of magnetic domains with vortex cores: the
magnetic domains would serve as pinning centers for vortices more
effectively at lower fields due to the softness of FLL. The increase in
magnetic fraction with increasing field is then readily understood as a
result of decreasing probability for vortices to overlap with random
magnetic domains at higher fields because the relative density of
vortices as well as the rigidity of FLL would increase. This also
suggests that the mean domain size of the magnetic phase is considerably
smaller than the FLL spacing (=69 nm at 0.5 T).

Figures 5(c)-5(e) show the field dependence of λ in each compounds.
While the London penetration depth is a physical constant uniquely
determined by local electromagnetic response, λ in our definition [Eq.
(1)] is a variable parameter, as n_(s) depends on temperature (T) and
external magnetic field (H). Therefore, we introduce an effective
penetration depth, λ(T, H), with an explicit reference to T and H
dependence. It is clear in Figs. 5(c)-5(e) that λ(H)=λ(2 K,H) tends to
increase with increasing external field. Here, one may further notice a
tendency that λ(H) increases more steeply below ∼ 2 T in the case of
x=0.10 and 0.15. However, these points at lower fields are also
associated with larger error bars probably because of the stronger
depolarization in the time domain. The value extrapolated to
$\mu_{0}H_{\rm ext}$=0 [λ(0)] is estimated by a linear fit with a proper
consideration of the uncertainty associated with these errors, and the
result is indicated in Fig. 5. These values (104-119 nm) turn out to be
significantly shorter than the earlier result [7] (hereafter, the
in-plane penetration depth λ_(ab) is approximated by an equation λ =
1.3λ_(ab), according to Ref. [26]). In qualitative sense, however, our
result supports the earlier suggestion of a large discrepancy for SLCO
from the quasilinear relation between T_(c) and n_(s) observed over a
wide variety of p-type cuprates. [8] The anomaly becomes more evident
when they are mapped to the T_(c) vs λ⁻² plot, as shown in Fig. 6. They
are far off the line followed by the data of p-type cuprates, suggesting
that n-type SLCO belongs to a class of superconductors different from
that of p-type cuprates.

It is well established that the carrier concentration, p, of p-type
cuprates nearly corresponds to that of the doping value x while x ≤
0.20. [27] In contrast, a recent ARPES measurement on an n-type cuprate,
Nd_(2 − x)Ce_(x)CuO_(4 ± δ) has revealed that small electron pockets (p
= x) observed for x =0.04 sample are replaced by a large Fermi surface
(corresponding to p ≈ 1 + x) for x = 0.10 and 0.15 samples. [28] When
m^(*) is assumed to be comparable with that of p-type cuprate (m^(*) =
3m_(e)), n_(s) can be estimated using Eq. (1), yielding 1.3 × 10²² cm⁻³
in SLCO with x = 0.125 [where λ(0) is determined with the best
accuracy]. This corresponds to p ≥ 0.70, and an order of magnitude
larger than that of p-type cuprates. [19, 29] A better correspondence to
p ≈ 1 + x = 1.125 would be attained when m^(*) ≈ 4.8m_(e). Thus, the
present result is yet another evidence for a large Fermi surface in
SLCO. This is also in line with some recent experimental results for
n-type superconductors. For example, resistivity (ρ) in the normal state
shows a Fermi-liquid-like temperature dependence (ρ ∝ T²) common to
ordinary metals, [30] and a metallic Korringa law has been revealed by
NMR study under high magnetic fields. [31] These observations coherently
suggest that the n-type cuprates cannot be regarded as the doped Mott
insulators, but they might be better understood as in the normal
Fermi-liquid state already at the optimal doping (x ∼ 0.1).

The increase in λ with increasing external field is a clear sign that
the superconducting order parameter is not described by that of simple
isotropic s-wave paring for single-band electrons. [12] One of the
possible origins for the field dependent λ is the presence of nodal
structure in the order parameter [$|\Delta({\bf k})|$ = 0 at particular
${\bf k}$] that leads to the field-induced quasiparticle excitation due
to the quasiclassical Doppler shift. [32] The quasiparticle energy
spectrum is shifted by the flow of supercurrent around vortex cores to
an extent δE=$m{\bf v}_{F}\cdot{\bf v}_{x}$, where ${\bf v}_{F}$ and
${\bf v}_{x}$ are the Fermi velocity and superfluid velocity,
respectively. This gives rise to the pair breaking for
$|\Delta({\bf k})|$<δE and associated reduction of n_(s). The presence
of nodes also leads to a nonlocal effect in which λ is affected by the
modification of supercurrent near the nodes where the coherence length
$\xi_{0}({\bf k})$=$\hbar v_{F}/\pi\Delta({\bf k})$ exceeds the local
London penetration depth. [44] For the comparison of magnitude for the
field-induced effect, we use a dimensionless parameter η deduced by
fitting data in Fig. 5 using λ(h)=λ(0)[1 + ηη] with h=H/H_(c2). Provided
that η is dominated by the presence of gap nodes, the magnitude of η at
lower fields is roughly proportional to the phase volume of the Fermi
surface where $|\Delta({\bf k})|$<δE. As seen in Fig. 5, η in SLCO is
definitely greater than zero irrespective of x, taking values between
1.2 and 1.7. It is noticeable that these values are considerably smaller
than η = 6 ($\mu_{0}H_{\rm ext}$< 2 T) observed in YBa₂Cu₃O_(6.95)
(YBCO) that has a typical $d_{x^{2}$-$y^{2}}$-wave gap symmetry. The
situation remains true even when one considers (i) the nonlocal effect
that tends to reduce η at high magnetic fields (η ≈ 2 for
$\mu_{0}H_{\rm ext}$>2 T) (Ref. [45]) and (ii) a

Figure 6: (Color online) T_(c) vs λ⁻² for various cuprate
superconductors. The closed circles represent our result, whereas the
open circle is that of Ref. [7]. The open squares and triangles are for
other n-type cuprates (Refs. [33, 34, 35]), closed upward triangles for
La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄ (Refs. [29] and [36, 37, 38]) and downward ones for
Y_(1 − x)Pr_(x)Ba₂Cu₃O_(6.97) (Ref. [39]). The square symbols for
YBa₂Cu₃O_(y) and diamond for Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O₈ (Refs. [40, 41, 42, 43]).

possible overestimation of λ at higher fields due to the extended use of
the m-London model that also leads to the overestimation of η [e.g., η
based on the m-London model is greater than that on the GL model by
0.23(7) in NbSe₂ (Ref. 19) and 0.6(2) in YB₆ (Ref. 12)].

Interestingly, the relatively small value of η is in line with the
recent suggestion by ARPES measurement on another n-type superconductor,
Pr_(0.89)LaCe_(0.11)CuO₄ (PLCCO), which the order parameter Δ(k, ψ) has
a steeper gradient at the nodes along azimuthal (ψ) direction than that
for the d_(x² − y²) symmetry.[6] Since the phase volume satisfying
$|\Delta({\bf k})|<\delta E$ is inversely proportional to d|Δ(k, ψ)|/dψ
at the node, we have

$$\eta\propto\left(\frac{d|\Delta(k,\psi)|}{d\psi}\right)^{-1}_{\psi(|\Delta|=0)}.$$
(10)

Assuming a situation similar to PLCCO and that η observed in YBCO
represents a typical value for d_(x² − y²)-wave gap, our result suggests
that the gradient d|Δ(k, ψ)|/dψ in SLCO is 1.2(3)-5.0(3) times greater
than that at the node of d_(x² − y²)-wave gap. However, it is clear that
further assessments by other techniques that are more sensitive to the
symmetry of the order parameters are necessary to discuss the details of
gap structure in SLCO.

In conclusion, it has been revealed by the present μSR study that a
phase separation occurs in an electron-doped cuprate superconductor,
Sr_(1 − x)La_(x)CuO₂ (x=0.10, 0.125, and 0.15), where nearly half of the
sample volume exhibits magnetism having no long-range correlation while
the rest remains nonmagnetic. The superconductivity occurs predominantly
in the nonmagnetic domain, where the effective magnetic penetration
depth evaluated by using a modified-London model is much shorter than
that of other p-type cuprates. This suggests a large carrier density
corresponding to 1+x and accordingly the breakdown of the Mott
insulating phase in SLCO and other n-type cuprates even at their optimal
doping. The field dependence of λ suggests that the superconductivity of
SLCO is not described by single-band s-wave pairing. The magnitude of
the dimensionless parameter, η (^(∘)dλ/dH), is qualitatively in line
with nonmonotonic d-wave superconducting gap observed in other n-type
cuprates.

We would like to thank the staff of TRIUMF for technical support during
the μSR experiment and Takano-group of ICR-Kyoto University (M. Takano,
Y. Shimakawa, M. Azuma, I. Yamada, and K. Oka) for useful advice
concerning sample preparation. This work was partially supported by the
Grant-in-Aid for Creative Scientific Research and the Grant-in-Aid for
Scientific Research on Priority Areas by the Ministry of Education,
Culture, Sports, Science and Technology, Japan.

## References

* [1] H. Takagi, S. Uchida, and Y. Tokura, Phys. Rev. Lett. **62**, 1197
(1989). * [2] F. C. Zhang and T. M. Rice, Phys. Rev. B **37**, 3759
(1988). * [3] For the recent review, see, for example, P. W. Anderson,
P. A. Lee, M. Randeria, T. M. Rice, N. Trivedi, and F. C. Zhang, J.
Phys.: Condens. Matter **16**, R755 (2004). * [4] For the recent review,
see for example, T. Moriya and K. Ueda, Adv. Phys. **49**, 555 (2000). *
[5] K. Yamada, K. Kurahashi, T. Uefuji, M. Fujita, S. Park, S.-H. Lee,
and Y. Endoh, Phys. Rev. Lett. **90**, 137004 (2003). * [6] H. Matsui,
K. Terashima, T. Sato, T. Takahashi, M. Fujita, and K. Yamada, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **95**, 017003 (2005). * [7] A. Shengelaya, R. Khasanov, D.
G. Eshchenko, D. Di Castro, I. M. Savic, M. S. Park, K. H. Kim, S.-I.
Lee, K. A. Muller, and H. Keller, Phys. Rev. Lett. **94**, 127001
(2005). * [8] Y. J. Uemura, L. P. Le, G. M. Luke, B. J. Sternlieb, W. D.
Wu, J. H. Brewer, T. M. Riseman, C. L. Seaman, M. B. Maple, M. Ishikawa,
D. G. Hinks, J. D. Jorgensen, G. Saito, and H. Yamochi, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**66**, 2665 (1991). * [9] K. M. Kojima, K. Kawashima, M. Fujita, K.
Yamada, M. Azuma, M. Takano, A. Koda, K. Ohishi, W. Higemoto, R. Kadono,
and Y. J. Uemura, Physica B (Amsterdam) **374-375**, 207 (2006). * [10]
C.-T. Chen, P. Seneor, N.-C. Yeh, R. P. Vasquez, L. D. Bell, C. U. Jung,
J. Y. Kim, M.-S. Park, H.-J. Kim, and S.-I. Lee, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**88**, 227002 (2002). * [11] Z. Y. Liu, H. H. Wen, L. Shan, H. P. Yang,
X. F. Lu, H. Gao, M.-S. Park, C. U. Jung, and S.-I. Lee, Europhys. Lett.
**69**, 263 (2005). * [12] R. Kadono, S. Kuroiwa, J. Akimitsu, A. Koda,
K. Ohishi, W. Higemoto, and S. Otani, Phys. Rev. B **76**, 094501
(2007). * [13] R. Kadono, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter **16**, S4421
(2004). * [14] G. Er. S. Kikkawa, F. Kanamaru, Y. Miyamoto, S. Tanaka,
M. Sera, M. Sato, Z. Hiroi, M. Takano, and Y. Bando, Physica C **196**,
271 (1992). * [15] K. Kawashima, M.S. thesis (unpublished). * [16] S.
Karimoto, K. Ueda, M. Naito, and T. Imai, Physica C **378-381**, 127
(2002). * [17] R. Kadono, H. Okajima, A. Yamashita, K. Ishii, T. Yokoo,
J. Akimitsu, N. Kobayashi, Z. Hiroi, M. Takano, and K. Nagamine, Phys.
Rev. B **54**, R9628 (1996). * [18] E. H. Brandt, Phys. Rev. B **37**,
2349 (1988). * [19] J. E. Sonier, J. H. Brewer, and R. F. Kiefl, Rev.
Mod. Phys. **72**, 769 (2000). * [20] V. S. Zapf, N.-C. Yeh, A. D.
Beyer, C. R. Hughes, C. H. Mielke, N. Harrison, M. S. Park, K. H. Kim,
and S.-I. Lee, Phys. Rev. B **71**, 134526 (2005). * [21] S. P. Brown,
D. Charalambous, E. C. Jones, E. M. Forgan, P. G. Kealey, A. Erb, and J.
Kohlbrecher, Phys. Rev. Lett. **92**, 067004 (2004). * [22] R. Gilardi,
J. Mesot, A. Drew, U. Divakar, S. L. Lee, E. M. Forgan, O. Zaharko, K.
Conder, V. K. Aswal, C. D. Dewhurst, R. Cubitt, N. Momono, and M. Oda,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **88**, 217003 (2002). * [23] R. Kadono, K. H. Satoh,
A. Koda, T. Nagata, H. Kawano Furukawa, J. Suzuki, M. Matsuda, K.
Ohishi, W. Higemoto, S. Kuroiwa, H. Takaigwa, and J. Akimitsu, Phys.
Rev. B **74**, 024513 (2006). * [24] K. Ohishi, K. Kakuta, J. Akimitsu,
W. Higemoto, R. Kadono, J. E. Sonier, A. N. Price, R. I. Miller, R. F.
Kiefl, M. Nohara, H. Suzuki, and H. Takagi, Phys. Rev. B **65**,
140505(R) (2002). * [25] C. M. Aegerter, S. H. Lloyd, C. Ager, S. L.
Lee, S. Romer, H. Keller, and E. M. Forgan, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter
**10**, 7445 (1998). * [26] V. I. Fesenko, V. N. Gorbunov, and V. P.
Smilga, Physica C **176**, 551 (1991). * [27] Y. Fukuzumi, K. Mizuhashi,
K. Takenaka, and S. Uchida, Phys. Rev. Lett. **76**, 684 (1996). * [28]
N. P. Armitage, F. Ronning, D. H. Lu, C. Kim, A. Damascelli, K. M. Shen,
D. L. Feng, H. Eisaki, Z.-X. Shen, P. K. Mang, N. Kaneko, M. Greven, Y.
Onose, Y. Taguchi, and Y. Tokura, Phys. Rev. Lett. **88**, 257001
(2002). * [29] G. Aeppli, R. J. Cava, E. J. Ansaldo, J. H. Brewer, S. R.
Kreitzman, G. M. Luke, D. R. Noakes, and R. F. Kiefl, Phys. Rev. B
**35**, 7129 (1987). * [30] C. H. Wang, L. Huang, L. Wang, Y. Peng, X.
G. Luo, Y. M. Xiong, and X. H. Chen, Supercond. Sci. Technol. **17**,
469 (2004). * [31] G.-Q. Zheng, T. Sato, Y. Kitaoka, M. Fujita, and K.
Yamada, Phys. Rev. Lett. **90**, 197005 (2003). * [32] G. E. Volovik,
Pis’ma Zh. Eksp. Teor. Fiz. **58**, 457 (1993) [JETP Lett. **58**, 469
(1993)]. * [33] C. C. Homes, R. P. S. M. Lobo, P. Fournier, A. Zimmers,
and R. L. Greene, Phys. Rev. B **74**, 214515 (2006). * [34] A. A.
Nugroho, I. M. Sutjahja, A. Rusydi, M. O. Tjia, A. A. Menovsky, F. R. de
Boer, and J. J. M. Franse, Phys. Rev. B **60**, 15384 (1999). * [35] C.
C. Homes, B. P. Clayman, J. L. Peng, and R. L. Greene, Phys. Rev. B
**56**, 5525 (1997). * [36] G. M. Luke, Y. Fudamoto, K. Kojima, M.
Larkin, J. Merrin, B. Natumi, Y. J. Uemura, J. E. Sonier, T. Ito, K.
Oka, M. de Andrade, M. B. Maple, and S. Uchida, Physica C **282-287**,
1465 (1997). * [37] T. Schneider and H. Keller, New J. Phys. **6**, 144
(2004). * [38] C. Panagopoulos, J. R. Cooper, T. Xiang, Y. S. Wang, and
C. W. Chu, Phys. Rev. B **61**, R3808 (2000). * [39] C. L. Seaman, J. J.
Neumeier, M. B. Maple, L. P. Le, G. M. Luke, B. J. Sternlieb, Y. J.
Uemura, J. H. Brewer, R. Kadono, R. F. Kiefl, S. R. Krietzman, and T. M.
Riseman, Phys. Rev. B **42**, 6801 (1990). * [40] W. N. Hardy, D. A.
Bonn, D. C. Morgan, R. Liang, and K. Zhang, Phys. Rev. Lett. **70**,
3999 (1993). * [41] J. E. Sonier, D. A. Bonn, J. H. Brewer, W. N. Hardy,
R. F. Kiefl, and R. Liang, Phys. Rev. B **72**, 146501 (2005). * [42] Y.
J. Uemura, V. J. Emery, A. R. Moodenbaugh, M. Suenaga, D. C. Johnston,
A. J. Jacobson, J. T. Lewandowski, J. H. Brewer, R. F. Kiefl, S. R.
Kreitzman, G. M. Luke, T. Riseman, C. E. Stronach, W. J. Kossler, J. R.
Kempton, X. H. Yu, D. Opie, and H. E. Schone, Phys. Rev. B **38**, 909
(1988). * [43] H. Keller, W. Kundig, I. M. Savic, H. Simmler, B.
Stauble-Pumpin, M. Warden, D. Zech, P. Zimmermann, E. Kaldis, J.
Karpinski, S. Rusiecki, J. H. Brewer, T. M. Riseman, and J. W.
Schneider, Physica C **185-189**, 1089 (1991). * [44] M. H. S. Amin, I.
Affleck, and M. Franz, Phys. Rev. B **58**, 5848 (1998). * [45] J. E.
Sonier, J. H. Brewer, R. F. Kiefl, G. D. Morris, R. I. Miller, D. A.
Bonn, J. Chakhalian, R. H. Heffner, W. N. Hardy, and R. Liang, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **83**, 4156 (1999).
