Superconductivity and role of pnictogen and Fe substitution in
112-LaPd_(x)_Pn₂_ (_Pn_ = Sb, Bi)

Reiner Retzlaff

Institute of Materials Science, Technische Universitat Darmstadt,
Alarich-Weiss-Strasse 2, 64287 Darmstadt, Germany

Alexander Buckow

Institute of Materials Science, Technische Universitat Darmstadt,
Alarich-Weiss-Strasse 2, 64287 Darmstadt, Germany

Philipp Komissinskiy

Institute of Materials Science, Technische Universitat Darmstadt,
Alarich-Weiss-Strasse 2, 64287 Darmstadt, Germany

Soumya Ray

Institute of Materials Science, Technische Universitat Darmstadt,
Alarich-Weiss-Strasse 2, 64287 Darmstadt, Germany

Stefan Schmidt

Institute of Materials Science, Technische Universitat Darmstadt,
Alarich-Weiss-Strasse 2, 64287 Darmstadt, Germany

Hollger Muhlig

Institut fur Festkorperphysik, Friedrich-Schiller-Universitat Jena,
Helmholtzstrasse 5, 07743 Jena, Germany

Frank Schmidt

Institut fur Festkorperphysik, Friedrich-Schiller-Universitat Jena,
Helmholtzstrasse 5, 07743 Jena, Germany

Paul Seidel

Institut fur Festkorperphysik, Friedrich-Schiller-Universitat Jena,
Helmholtzstrasse 5, 07743 Jena, Germany

Jose Kurian

Institute of Materials Science, Technische Universitat Darmstadt,
Alarich-Weiss-Strasse 2, 64287 Darmstadt, Germany

Lambert Alff

Institute of Materials Science, Technische Universitat Darmstadt,
Alarich-Weiss-Strasse 2, 64287 Darmstadt, Germany Institut fur
Festkorperphysik, Friedrich-Schiller-Universitat Jena, Helmholtzstrasse
5, 07743 Jena, Germany

###### Abstract

We report on the epitaxial growth of As-free and phase-pure thin films
of the 112-pnictide compounds LaPd_(x)_Pn₂_ (_Pn_ = Sb, Bi) grown on
(100) MgO substrates by molecular beam epitaxy. X-ray diffraction,
reflection high-energy electron diffraction, and x-ray photoelectron
spectroscopy confirm the HfCuSi₂ structure of the material with a
peculiar pnictogen square net layer. The superconducting transition
temperature $T_{\rm c}$ varies little with Pd concentration. LaPd_(x)Sb₂
has a higher $T_{\rm c}$ (3.2 K) by about 20

pacs: 74.70.Dd, 74.70.Xa, 74.78.-w, 81.15.Hi + Footnote †: preprint:
APS/123-QED

## I Introduction

The research on Fe-based pnictides with ZrCuSiAs structure [1] has led
to the discovery of materials with superconducting transition
temperatures $T_{\rm c}$ as high as 56 K [2; 3; 4]. In these compounds
the pnictogen is arsenic or phosphor. It is desirable to search for
As-free superconducting pnictides not only because of the highly toxic
nature of this element but also because of fundamental interest in
understanding the role of the pnictogen ion by investigating, e.g., Bi-
and Sb-based compounds. There are predictions that the substitution of
As by Sb could even lead to novel high-temperature superconductors [5;
6]. While the vast majority of research has focused on the 1111-, 122-,
111-, and 11-type pnictides and chalcogenides, recently, high-transition
temperatures of up to 45 K have also been reported in the 112-type iron
pnictides Ca_(1 − x)La_(x)FeAs₂, with x between 0.1 and 0.2 [7; 8; 9;
10; 11]. One modification of the 112 structure belongs to the same
symmetry group P4/nmm (No. 129) as the 1111- or ZrCuSiAs-type materials.
However, the atomic arrangement contains a peculiar pnictogen square net
layer that was identified for the first time for the compound HfCuSi₂ in
1975 [12; 13]. Sometimes, this structure type is also referred to as
ZrCuSi₂ (which is easily confused with ZrCuSiAs). Recently, in this
modification of the 112 type, superconductivity has been discovered at
about 4 K in RENi_(x)Bi₂, with RE = La, Ce, Nd, and Y [14]. One
intriguing property of these compounds is the mixed-valence state of the
pnictogen. In the pnictogen square net layer, the ions have a formal
valence of −1, while in the more three-dimensional metal-pnictogen layer
(corresponding to the Fe-As layer, e.g., in LaFeAsO) the pnictide has a
formal valence of −3. For most rare-earth elements it is difficult to
achieve phase-pure bulk materials with a large superconducting volume
fraction in RENi_(x)_Pn₂_[14]. In the case of CeNi_(0.3)Bi₂, samples
suitable for neutron scattering were achieved, revealing that the
antiferromagnetic ordering of Ce³⁺ does not interact with the
superconducting condensate. The missing coupling of spin fluctuations to
the superconducting charge carriers has been interpreted as the reason
for the low critical temperature in this compound [15]. Recently, it has
been argued along the same lines that the isostructural compound HfCuGe₂
is a nonmagnetic analog of the 1111 iron pnictides and therefore has a
reduced $T_{\rm c}$ of 0.6 K [16]. Kodama _et al._ have suggested that
superconductivity occurs in the pnictogen square net layer instead of
the transition-metal-pnictogen layer [15]. Recently, the Pd-based
compounds LaPd_(1 − x)Bi₂ and CePd_(1 − x)Bi₂ have been grown as single
crystals, with a bulk $T_{\rm c}$ of 2.1 K for LaPd_(1 − x)Bi₂, whereas
CePd_(1 − x)Bi₂ was nonsuperconducting with antiferromagnetic ordering
at 6 K [17]. Note that the previously mentioned high $T_{\rm c}$ values
above 34 K have been achieved in a second modification of the 112 type
which is distorted from the space group P4/nmm to the monoclinic space
group P2₁ (No. 4) [7; 8; 9]. Nevertheless, the key structural features
of the quasi-two-dimensional square net layer where As bonds are
arranged in a zigzag way and the typical Fe-pnictide layer common to all
pnictide superconductors are the same for both modifications. We stress
that the reported high $T_{\rm c}$ values still await confirmation.

Some of the difficulties in preparing bulk samples of 112 type can be
overcome by using a thin-film approach [18; 19]. It has been reported
for CeNi₂Bi₂ and LaNi_(x)Bi₂ that phase-pure epitaxial thin films with
$T_{\rm c}$ similar to or even higher than those of the bulk can be
prepared by molecular beam epitaxy (MBE) [20; 21]. For antimonides,
superconducting transitions have been reported for LaNi_(x)Sb₂ at 1.0 K,
for LaCu_(x)Sb₂ at 0.9 K, and for LaPd_(x)Sb₂ at 2.7 K [22]. The 112
compounds tend to have a relatively large amount of metal vacancies
(indicated by _x_<1) due to the formal valence state of −1, which is
partially avoided by vacancy formation. With respect to the role of Sb,
it is interesting to note that slight Sb doping into
Ca_(1 − x)La_(x)FeAs_(0.99)Sb_(0.01) with x = 0.15 has induced a higher
$T_{\rm c}$[9]. Recently, several studies of the Pd-based 122 compounds
APd₂As₂ (A = Ca, Sr, Ba, La) and SrPd₂Ge₂ have shown that they are
conventional type-II nodeless (but anisotropic) s-wave electron-phonon
superconductors with a maximum $T_{\rm c}$ of 1-4 K [23; 24; 25]. Since
it is difficult to stabilize the Fe-based 112 bismuthides and
antimonides [26], we have investigated epitaxial thin films of
LaPd_(x)Sb₂ and LaPd_(x)Bi₂ to study the role of the pnictogen ion. In
addition, we have studied the role of Fe by substituting up to half of
the Pd in LaPd1-yFey)_x_Sb2 with 0 x <= 0.5.

## II Experiment

Thin films were grown by MBE in a custom-designed ultrahigh-vacuum (UHV)
chamber with a base pressure of about 10-9 mbar. The chamber was
equipped with three electron evaporation guns and separate collimated
quartz-crystal microbalance (QCM) sensor heads for rate monitoring in a
feedback loop to the _e_-guns controlled by a state-of-the-art
four-channel thin-film deposition controller (Cygnus, Inficon). In
addition, a high-temperature effusion cell was used. For thin-film
growth, elemental metal sources are simultaneously coevaporated (La,
Lesker 99.9

## III Results and Discussion

### LaPd4Sb2

The LaPd4Sb2 thin films were grown in the temperature range between 440
degC and 520 degC with a typical growth rate of 0.5 A/s. The desired
structure formed in this temperature window of 80 degC. Lower growth
temperatures resulted in polycrystalline films, whereas higher
temperatures resulted in Sb deficiency. This deficiency can be
compensated by increasing the deposition rate at higher temperatures.
However, the crystallinity of the thin films is best around 480 degC. At
optimal conditions the films grow epitaxially on (100) MgO with a smooth
and atomically flat surface, as can be seen in the clear, streaky
reflection high-energy electron diffraction (RHEED) pattern shown in
Fig. 1.

The thin films are phase pure, and out-of-plane 2_th_-o_ x-ray scans
indicate a pure _c_-axis orientation. No impurity phases are detected by
XRD. A typical 2_th_-o_ scan is shown in Fig. 2. All peaks correspond to
(000) reflections, demonstrating the single-phase nature of the films.
From the XRD pattern the _c_-axis lattice parameter was determined using
the Nelson-Riley method [28]. The extrapolated value of c = 9.88(5) A is
a bit smaller than the reported bulk values in the literature of c =
9.982 A [22]. For optimal growth conditions, Laue oscillations can be
observed (see the right inset in Fig. 2), indicating coherent growth and
allowing the determination of the film thickness. The determined
thickness of _t_Laue = 25.7 nm is in good agreement with the analysis of
the x-ray reflection (XRR) measurements (see left inset in Fig. 2),
giving _t_XRR = 26.1 nm. The best rocking curves have a FWHM of about
0.03deg-0.05. The _a_-axis lattice parameter of LaPd4Sb2 is 4.52(2) A,
resulting in a lattice mismatch to the MgO substrate of 7.4

In order to determine the in-plane texture and the epitaxial relation of
the LaPd4Sb2 thin films on MgO substrates, x-ray _ph_ scans were carried
out. Typical _ph_ scans of the (112) reflection of the thin film and the
(111) reflection of the MgO substrate are shown in Fig. 3. Because of
the fourfold symmetry of the tetragonal structure a set of four peaks
with 90deg spacing is expected. Exactly in between these peaks, an
additional set of four peaks with reduced intensity is observed. This
indicates that two domains are formed with one domain rotated by 45deg
with respect to the other. From the online observation of the RHEED
patterns one can conclude that during the growth of the first unit cells
both domains are present. In the later growth

Figure 2: (Color online) A _20-o_ XRD scan of LaPd4Sb2. The intensities
are shown on a logarithmic scale. The left inset shows an XRR
measurement, and the right inset shows a zoom of the (003) reflection.

Figure 1: (Color online) Room-temperature RHEED pattern of LaPd4Sb2 with
the beam azimuth in the (100) direction of the MgO substrate. The
streaks indicate atomically smooth and epitaxial growth. The inset shows
a sketch of the crystal structure.

stage, only the major nonrotated domain remains. The rotated domain
therefore occurs only at the interface with the substrate and,
subsequently, is overgrown by the majority domain. The interface energy
difference for unrotated and rotated growth seems to be small and is
governed by the surface conditions of MgO. On as-received substrates,
the rotated growth is favored, while vacuum annealing at 800^(∘) leads
to cube-on-cube growth. The drawings in Fig. 3 suggest an epitaxial
relation for the rotated domain (2 x 2 on rotated 3 x 3 unit cells) with
a lattice mismatch of only 1.2

The pnictide ions in the 112 compounds occur in two different oxidation
states at different positions in the unit cell. Figure 4 shows the XPS
spectra of the Sb 3d core level of a LaPd_(x)Sb₂ thin film measured with
Al K_(a) radiation. Antimony has two 3d photoelectron lines due to the
spin-orbit interaction, and they are separated by Δ = 9.4 eV. The
spectra clearly show two doublets representing the two valence states.
The more intensive lines at higher energies correspond to the oxidation
state Sb⁻³; the second peak can be attributed to the Sb⁻¹ state within
the square net layer.

We have measured the electrical properties of LaPd_(x)Sb₂ using a
four-point resistivity measurement. The resistivity vs temperature
behavior is shown in Fig. 5. The thin film has a room-temperature
resistivity of ρ(300 K) = 91.5 μΩ cm and a residual resistivity ratio of
ρ(300 K)/ρ(10 K) = 1.58. The data show a sharp superconducting
transition with $T_{\rm c}^{\rm onset}$ = 3.27 K and
$T_{\rm c}^{\rm zero}$ = 3.23 K. The transition width defined by the
90/10 criterion is ΔT = 0.03 K. In the range of 5 K to about 30 K, the
resistivity shows a metallic behavior with a quadratic ρ(T) = ρ₀ + AT²
dependence with ρ₀ = 57.4 μΩ cm and A ≈ 2.54 nΩ cm/K². Between 30 K and
room temperature a rather linear or even convex behavior is found. We
have also measured magnetization vs temperature using a SQUID in a field
of 8 Oe applied perpendicular to the thin-film plane. The data clearly
show the onset of the Meissner shielding at 2.9 K, confirming a
superconducting phase with significant volume. The low-field scan of the
magnetization at 1.8 K had a typical shape of a type-II superconductor
with a lower critical field $H_{\rm c1}=10$ Oe (corresponding to 1 mT).
Figure 6 shows the field dependence of the superconducting transition in
LaPd_(x)Sb₂. The magnetic field was applied perpendicular to the sample
surface. The midpoint of the superconducting transition shifts from 2.90
K at 0 T to 1.78 K at 0.5 T. A rough extrapolation of the decrease of
the superconducting transition temperature leads to an estimated upper
critical field of about $H_{\rm c2}=1.1$ T.

We have investigated the influence of the Sb and Pd concentration in
LaPd_(x)Sb₂. The Sb concentration has almost no influence on the
critical temperature. In the range of ±5

Figure 4: (Color online) XPS spectra of the Sb 3d core level in
LaPd_(x)Sb₂. The two larger peaks correspond to Sb⁻³; the smaller peaks
correspond to Sb⁻¹.

Figure 5: (Color online) Temperature dependence of the resistivity of a
LaPd_(x)Sb₂ thin film.

Figure 3: (Color online) ϕ scans of the LaPd_(x)Sb₂ (112) reflection and
MgO (111) reflection. The drawings represent the two epitaxial
relations. The dashed cube is the LaPd_(x)Sb₂ (112) unit cell; the solid
line represents the MgO unit cell.

critical temperature shows a broad dome-shaped behavior as a function of
Pd concentration. At the edges of the dome, the superconductivity
rapidly vanishes, accompanied by a strong decrease in sample quality. We
have calculated the expected deposition rate for perfect stoichiometry
in LaPdSb₂ (x = 1) from an inductively coupled plasma analysis (ICP).
Interestingly, the superconductivity breaks down before this point is
reached, and the crystallinity is strongly worsened. We conclude from
these observations that the main reason for the degradation of the
superconducting state is the lattice destabilization instead of some
kind of doping effect.

### LaPd_(x)Bi₂

LaPd_(x)Bi₂ can be grown on MgO substrates under conditions similar to
those for LaPd_(x)Sb₂. However, the substrate temperature range for the
Bi-based compound is narrower than that for the Sb-based compound. For
LaPd_(x)Bi₂ the growth window is between 405 degC and 445 degC, similar
to the one for LaNi_(x)Bi₂ and CeNi_(x)Bi₂[20, 21]. The bismuth compound
LaPd_(x)Bi₂ is not stable in air. The samples degrade fast, which makes
characterization challenging. With the optimal growth conditions the
films grow epitaxially on (100) MgO with a smooth and atomically flat
surface, as can be deduced from the streaky RHEED pattern shown in Fig.
8. The electron-beam azimuth is in the ⟨110⟩ direction of MgO. The
additional fine lines between the main streaks indicate a surface
reconstruction which has not been observed for the Sb-based compound.

The LaPd_(x)Bi₂ thin films are phase pure, and the out-of-plane 2_th-o_
x-ray scans show a c-axis orientation. A typical 2_th-o_ scan is shown
in Fig. 9. All peaks correspond to (00f) reflections, indicating the
single-phase nature of the film. The c-axis lattice parameter
extrapolated by the Nelson-Riley method is c = 9.70(9) A. Calculated
from the RHEED pattern, the a-axis lattice constant is about a = 4.55 A.
The best FWHM values of the rocking curve of the (003) reflection are
about 0.05(4^(∘)). Additionally, there is a broad background from
diffuse scattering due to dislocations with a FWHM

Figure 8: RHEED pattern from the surface of a LaPd_(x)Bi₂ thin film with
beam azimuth in the (110) direction of MgO. The streaks indicate
atomically smooth and epitaxial growth.

Figure 6: (Color online) Superconducting transition of a LaPd_(x)Sb₂
thin film shown for different magnetic fields applied perpendicular to
the film surface. The inset shows the extrapolation of the critical
field vs transition temperature behavior.

Figure 7: (Color online) Phase diagram of LaPd_(x)Sb₂ showing the
critical temperature vs Pd content. Onset and zero-resistance values are
shown. The line on the right corresponds to LaPdSb₂ as calculated from
ICP data. The dashed line is a guide to the eye.

Figure 9: (Color online) A 2_th-o_ XRD scan of a LaPd_(x)Bi₂ thin film.
The intensities are shown on a logarithmic scale. Only (00f) reflections
are observed. The inset shows the XRR measurement.

of 0.44^(∘). The inset of Fig. 9 shows a XRR measurement. The absence of
clear Kiessig fringes shows that LaPd₄Bi₂ grows considerably less smooth
than LaPd₄Sb₂. Note that the _in situ_ surface of LaPd₄Bi₂ is atomically
smooth (as indicated by RHEED observation); the surface roughening and
film degradation are an effect of exposure to atmospheric conditions. In
this study we have not used capping layers since we wanted to
characterize the samples consistently including resistivity
measurements.

We show the ϕ scans for LaPd₄Bi₂ (112) and MgO (111) in Fig. 10. The
[110] direction of LaPd₄Bi₂ is parallel to [100] MgO, indicating that
LaPd₄Bi₂ grows 45^(∘) rotated with respect to the cubic substrate. The
intensities of the LaPd₄Bi₂[112] peaks are not identical due to a bad
sample in-plane alignment. A second measurement was not possible due to
the fast degradation of the sample. The lattice mismatch to MgO is about
8.1

Figure 11 shows the temperature dependence of the resistivity for the
LaPd₄Bi₂ thin film with the highest critical temperature. The
superconducting onset starts at $T_{\rm c}^{\rm onset}=3.03$ K, and the
zero-resistivity value is at $T_{\rm c}^{\rm zero}=2.70$ K, which is
about 0.5 K below the best LaPd₄Sb₂ thin films. These values and the
shape of ρ(T) are in good agreement with single -crystal values for
LaPd₄Sb₂Sb₂, where $T_{\rm c}^{\rm zero}=2.1$ K. The small discrepancy
in $T_{\rm c}^{\rm zero}$ might be due to a difference in Pd occupation
[17]. Despite the considerably faster degradation of the LaPd₄Bi₂ thin
films, this 20

Experimentally, we do not observe that a change in the Pd concentration
affects the transition temperature of LaPd₄Bi₂. There is a large plateau
of constant $T_{\rm c}$ below 3 K. The data scatter is smaller than the
scatter for individual Pd values. as shown in Fig. 12. For a high Pd
rate, superconductivity breaks down completely at a certain threshold
value. We assume that this transition is due to the structural
instability of the compound. LaPd₄Bi₂ behaves analogous to LaPd₄Sb₂,
where

Figure 11: (Color online) Temperature dependence of the resistivity of a
LaPd₄Bi₂ thin film. The inset shows a zoom of the superconducting
transition.

Figure 12: (Color online) Phase diagram of LaPd₄Bi₂. Onset and
zero-resistance values are shown.

Figure 10: (Color online) ϕ scan around the LaPd₄Bi₂ (112) reflection
and the MgO (111) reflection. The drawing indicates the epitaxial
relation. The unit cell of LaPd₄Bi₂ is represented by the dashed line;
MgO is represented by a solid line.

the superconductivity also breaks down when the nominal stoichiometric
compound is approached.

### Microstructure and critical currents in LaPd_(x)Sb₂

In order to estimate a typical critical current density in a
microstructured conducting bridge of the 112 superconductors, we have
chosen LaPd_(x)Sb₂ since it was more stable during the experiments. We
have fabricated a microbridge with about 400 μm width by Ar ion-beam
etching through a shadow mask. We have used 500 eV beam voltage and 10⁻³
A/cm² ion-beam density. Ion-beam etching has proven to be a suitable
method for microstructuring in the case of high-temperature
superconductors without inducing sample degradation [29]. In the case of
LaPd_(x)Sb₂, the use of a shadow mask instead of electron-beam or
photolithographic masks was necessary in order to avoid sample
degradation due to the contact with photoresist. The disadvantage of
this technique is the relatively large width of the superconducting
bridge. Because of that, we have also used the focused ion beam (FIB)
technique (at the Comenius University in Bratislava) to produce smaller
bridges with a minimal width of 1.7 μm. However, this step already leads
to optically visible sample degradation.

For the 400-μm-wide bridge, we have measured a critical current density
of about 1.25 × 10⁴ A/cm² at 0.38 K, which is three orders of magnitude
below typical critical current densities for high-temperature
superconducting cuprates but of the order of the critical current
density in conventional metallic superconductors. Arsenic-containing
Fe-based pnictide superconducting thin films show critical currents
between 10⁴ and 10⁶ A/cm², depending on their structural details [30].
Note that during processing of the 400-μm microbridge, the T_(c)^(onset)
of the material at the bridge was reduced to 2.6 K, with
T_(c)^(zero) = 2.2 K (but not at the remaining unstructured parts of
sample). The current-voltage characteristics of the wide microbridge as
shown in Fig. 13 actually exhibit a behavior which is typical for a
Josephson junction. This means that there is a weak link in the bridge
area which could be due to a grain boundary. The weak-link
critical-current value is therefore a lower limit to the bulk critical
current of the compound itself in an ideal microbridge.

### Effect of Fe substitution in LaPd_(x)Sb₂

In a conventional superconductor, the addition of Fe typically leads to
a fast suppression of superconductivity due to the antagonism of
superconductivity and magnetic impurities. Since it is extremely
challenging to replace Pd completely by Fe, we have started to
substitute Pd by Fe in the more stable compound LaPd_(x)Sb₂. In total,
we have grown five samples with different Fe contents on MgO substrates
with the chemical formula LaFe_(y)Pd_(0.9 − y)Sb₂ with 0 ≤ y ≤ 0.7.
Figure 14 shows the evolution of 2θ-ω XRD scans with increasing Fe
substitution. Fe can be substituted with reasonable crystallinity up to
about 50

Figure 14: (Color online) Comparison of 2θ-ω XRD scans of
LaPd_(0.9 − y)Fe_(x)Sb₂ with 0 ≤ y ≤ 0.7.

Figure 13: (Color online) Current-voltage characteristics of a
LaPd_(x)Sb₂ bridge with a width of 400 μm (solid black line) and of a
microbridge with a width of 1.7 μm (dashed red line) measured at 0.38 K.

## IV Conclusion

The 112-pnictide superconductors are a subgroup of pnictides with a
peculiar structural feature, which is the pnictide square net layer. We
have chosen a thin-film approach using MBE to obtain epitaxial and
phase-pure thin films of LaPd₄_P_n₂ (_Pn_ = Sb, Bi) grown on (100) MgO
substrates. The occupation of Pd, which is typically below (x < 1),
almost does not affect superconductivity, which is suppressed only when
the structural stability of the compound is weakened. The Sb-based
compound has a higher critical temperature ($T_{\rm c}=3.2$ K) than the
Bi-based compound ($T_{\rm c}=2.7$ K), in agreement with a
phonon-mediated superconductivity scenario. The assumption of a
conventional BCS-type superconductivity is further corroborated by the
fast suppression of superconductivity upon magnetic substitution of Pd
by Fe.

###### Acknowledgements.

This work was supported by the Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft (DFG)
through Grant No. SPP 1458 (LA 560/10-2 and SE 664/15-2). We thank T.
Plecenik and M. Tomasek of Comenius University in Bratislava for the FIB
preparation. We also thank S. Doring, V. Tympel, S. Gottwals, and O.
Krsko for their technical assistance. This work was partially supported
by the Landesgraduiertenforderung Thuringen.

## References

* [1] V. Johnson and W. Jeitschko, J. Solid State Chem. **11**, 161
(1974). * [2] Y. Kamihara, T. Watanabe, M. Hirano, and H. Hosono, J. Am.
Chem. Soc. **130**, 3296 (2008). * [3] H. Takahashi, K. Igawa, K. Arii,
Y. Kamihara, M. Hirano, and H. Hosono, Nature (London) **453**, 376
(2008). * [4] Z.-A. Ren, J. Yang, W. Lu, W. Yi, X.-L. Shen, Z.-C. Li,
G.-C. Che, X.-L. Dong, L.-L. Sun, F. Zhou, and Z.-X. Zhao, Europhys.
Lett. **82**, 57002 (2008). * [5] J. H. Shim, K. Haule, and G. Kotliar,
Phys. Rev. B **79**, 060501(R) (2009). * [6] Y.-Z. Zhang, I. Opahle, H.
O. Jeschke, and R. Valenti, Phys. Rev. B **81**, 094505 (2010). * [7] N.
Katayama, K. Kudo, S. Onari, T. Mizukami, K. Sugawara, Y. Sugiyama, Y.
Kitahama, K. Iba, K. Fujimura, N. Nishimoto, M. Nohara, and H. Sawa, J.
Phys. Soc. Jpn. **82**, 123702 (2013). * [8] K. Kudo, T. Mizukami, Y.
Kitahama, D. Mitsuoka, K. Iba, K. Fujimura, N. Nishimoto, Y. Hiraoka,
and M. Nohara, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **83**, 025001 (2014). * [9] K. Kudo,
Y. Kitahama, K. Fujimura, T. Mizukami, H. Ota, and M. Nohara, J. Phys.
Soc. Jpn. **83**, 093705 (2014). * [10] W. Zhou, J. Zhuang, F. Yuan, X.
Li, X. Xing, Y. Sun, and Z. Shi, Appl. Phys. Express **7**, 063102
(2014). * [11] A. Sala, H. Yakita, H. Ogino, T. Okada, A. Yamamoto, K.
Kishio, S. Ishida, A. Iyo, H. Eisaki, M. Fujioka, Y. Takano, M. Putti,
and J.-I. Shimoyama, Appl. Phys. Express **7**, 073102 (2014). * [12] L.
S. Andrukhnik, L. A. Lysenko, Ya. P. Yarmolyuk, and E. I. Gladyshevskii,
Dopov. Akad. Nauk Ukr. RSR, Ser. A: Fitz.-Tek. Mat. Nauki **7**, 645
(1975). * [13] M. Brylak, M. H. Moller, and W. Jeitschko, J. Solid State
Chem. **115**, 305 (1995). * [14] H. Mizoguchi, S. Matsuishi, M. Hirano,
M. Tachibana, E. Takayama-Muromachi, H. Kawaji, and H. Hosono, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **106**, 057002 (2011). * [15] K. Kodama, S. Wakimoto, N.
Igawa, S. Shamoto, H. Mizoguchi, and H. Hosono, Phys. Rev. B **83**,
214512 (2011). * [16] L. Schoop, D. Hirai, C. Felser, and R. J. Cava,
Europhys. Lett. **101**, 67001 (2013). * [17] F. Han, C. D. Malliakas,
C. C. Stoumpos, M. Sturza, H. Claus, D. Y. Chung, and M. G. Kanatzidis,
Phys. Rev. B **88**, 144511 (2013). * [18] L. Alff, A. Klein, P.
Komissinskiy, and J. Kurian, in _Ceramic Science and Technology_, edited
by I.-W. Chen and R. Riedel (Wiley-VCH, Weinheim, 2011), Vol. 3, pp.
267-289. * [19] J. Kurian, A. Buckow, R. Retzlaff, and L. Alff, Phys. C
(Amsterdam, Neth.) **484**, 171 (2013). * [20] A. Buckow, K. Kupka, R.
Retzlaff, J. Kurian, and L. Alff, Appl. Phys. Lett. **101**, 162602
(2012). * [21] A. Buckow, R. Retzlaff, J. Kurian, and L. Alff,
Supercond. Sci. Technol. **26**, 015014 (2013). * [22] Y. Muro, N.
Takeda, and M. Ishikawa, J. Alloys Compd. **257**, 23 (1997). * [23] V.
K. Anand, H. Kim, M. A. Tanatar, R. Prozorov, and D. C. Johnston, Phys.
Rev. B **87**, 224510 (2013). * [24] T. K. Kim, A. N. Yaresko, V. B.
Zabolotnyy, A. A. Kordyuk, D. V. Evtushinsky, N. H. Sung, B. K. Cho, T.
Samuely, P. Szabo, J. G. Rodriguez, I. Park, D. S. Inosov, P. Szunely,
B. Buchner, and S. V. Borisenko, Phys. Rev. B **85**, 0145202 (2012). *
[25] S. Ganesaponti, T. Yajima, T. Tohyama, Z. Li, K. Nakano, Y. Nozaki,
C. Tassel, Y. Kobayashi, and H. Kageyama, J. Alloys Compd. **583**, 151
(2014). * [26] A. Leithe-Jasper and P. Rogl, J. Alloys Compd. **203**,
133 (1994). * [27] H. Zama, Y. Ishii, H. Yamamoto, and T. Morishita,
Jpn. J. Appl. Phys. **40**, L465 (2001). * [28] J. B. Nelson and D. P.
Riley, Proc. Phys. Soc. London **57**, 160 (1945). * [29] L. Alff, G. M.
Fischer, R. Gross, F. Kober, A. Beck, K. D. Husemann, T. Nissel, F.
Schmidt, and C. Burckhardt, Phys. C (Amsterdam, Neth.) **200**, 277
(1992). * [30] S. Haindl, M. Kidszun, S. Oswald, C. Hes, B. Buchner, S.
Kolling, L. Wlde, T. Thersleff, V. V. Yurchenko, M. Jourdan, H.
Hiramatsu, and H. Hosono, Rep. Prog. Phys. **77**, 046502 (2014).

Copyright of Physical Review B: Condensed Matter & Materials Physics is
the property of American Physical Society and its content may not be
copied or emailed to multiple sites or posted to a listserv without the
copyright holder’s express written permission. However, users may print,
download, or email articles for individual use.
