# Type-I superconductivity in ScGa₃ and LuGa₃ single crystals

E. Svanidze and E. Morosan

Department of Physics and Astronomy, Rice University, Houston, Texas
77005, USA

31 December 2011; revised manuscript received 12 March 2012; published
14 May 2012

###### Abstract

We present evidence of type-I superconductivity in single crystals of
ScGa₃ and LuGa₃, from magnetization, specific heat, and resistivity
measurements: low critical temperatures T_(c) = 2.1-2.2 K; field-induced
second-to first-order phase transition in the specific heat, critical
fields less than 240 Oe; and low Ginzburg-Landau coefficients κ≈ 0.23
and 0.30 for ScGa₃ and LuGa₃, respectively, are all transits of a
type-I-superconducting ground state. These observations render ScGa₃ and
LuGa₃ two of only several type-I superconducting compounds, with most
other superconductors being type II (compounds and alloys) or type I
(elemental metals and metaloids).

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.85.174514

PACS number(s): 74.70.Ad, 74.25.Bt

## I Introduction

Despite the large number of known conventional and unconventional
superconductors (SCs), new findings still emerge even from simple,
binary intermetallic systems. The majority of the metallic elements are
superconducting with small values of the critical temperatures T_(c).[1]
It has been noted[2] that intermetallic compounds often have T_(c)values
higher than those of the constituent elements, as is the case in
Nb₅Sn,[3] V₃Si,[4] ZrB₂, and NbB₂.[5] In this work, we present
thermodynamic and transport measurements on single crystals of _R_Ga₃
(R= Sc or Lu), formed with superconducting Ga with T_(c) = 1.09 K (Ref.
[1]) and either nonsuperconducting Sc or superconducting Lu whose
critical temperature is T_(c) = 0.1 K.[1]

Past studies focused on the synthesis of polycrystalline samples of
_R_Ga₃, with reports on single crystals limited to de Haas van Alphen
measurements.[6] Pluzhnikov _et al.[6]_ characterized the geometry of
the Fermi surface of three related intermetallic compounds, _R_Ga₃ (R=
Sc, Lu) and LuIn₃. Together with findings from band structure
calculations[7] on the same systems, these reports suggested great
similarities between the electronic properties of ScGa₃ and LuGa₃.
Superconductivity below 2.3 K in LuGa₃ have already been mentioned,[8]
but measurements of thermodynamic and transport properties of both ScGa₃
and LuGa₃ have so far been limited to T > 4.2 K.[9, 10] The similarities
in the electronic structures of ScGa₃ and LuGa₃ suggest that, if the
superconductivity in the latter compound is confirmed, the former is
likely to also display a superconducting ground state. In the current
paper we show evidence that indeed both _R_Ga₃ (R= Sc and Lu) are
superconducting. The low critical temperatures T_(c) around 2.2 K and
small critical fields H_(c) < 240 Oe point to type-I superconductivity
in both these compounds. Additional supporting evidence for the type-I
superconductivity is provided by the field-dependent specific heat and
low values of the Ginzburg-Landau (GL) coefficient κ≈ 0.23 and 0.3 for
ScGa₃ and LuGa₃, respectively.

## II Experimental methods

The _R_Ga₃ compounds (R= Sc, Dy-Tm, Lu) crystallize in the cubic
_Pm$\overline{3}$m_ space group, a structure suggested by Matthias[11]
to be favorable for superconductivity. Single crystals of ScGa₃ and
LuGa₃ were prepared using a self flux method by combining Sc or Lu (Hefa
Rare Earth 99.999

Powder x-ray diffraction data, shown in Fig. 1 for ScGa₃, were collected
for both compounds in a Rigaku D/Max diffractometer using CuKα
radiation. The patterns for ScGa₃ and LuGa₃ were refined with the cubic
space group _Pm$\overline{3}$m_, with lattice parameters a = 4.09 A and
a = 4.19 A, respectively. A picture of a ScGa₃ crystal is also shown in
the inset in Fig. 1. Traces of residual Ga flux are apparent in the
powder pattern and are marked with asterisks in Fig. 1. Additional
single-crystal x-ray diffraction measurements confirmed the crystal
structure, stoichiometry, and purity of the ScGa₃ crystals.

## III Results and discussion

As-measured susceptibility data χ= M/H for _R_Ga₃ in various applied
magnetic fields H was scaled by 4π and corrected for demagnetizing
effects 4π$\chi_{\rm{eff}}=4\pi$χ/(1 − N_(d)χ) as shown in Fig. 2. The
demagnetizing factor, N_(d) ≈ 1/3,[12, 13] is associated with the cubic
geometry of the crystals. As anticipated from their electronic
properties,[6] both R= Sc [Fig. 2(a)] and Lu [Fig. 2(b)] compounds
display similar superconducting ground states below 2.2-2.3 K.
Increasing magnetic field suppresses the transition for ScGa₃ [Fig.
2(a)], such that T_(c) becomes smaller than 1.8 K for H ≈ 80 Oe. Figure
2(b) illustrates the similarity between the H = 5 Oe M(T) data for ScGa₃
(squares) and LuGa₃ (triangles), for both zero-field-cooled (solid
symbols) and field-cooled (open symbols) data. The critical field H_(c)
for each compound can also be estimated from the M(H) data, shown in
Fig. 3. Taking the demagnetization effect into consideration, a more
accurate estimate of the field H is $H_{\rm eff}=H-N_{d}M$, where, as
before, for a cube and H||a, N_(d) ≈ 1/3. The resulting $M(H_{\rm eff})$
isotherms are displayed in Fig. 3 (solid symbols, bottom axes) along
with as-measured M(H) for T = 1.8 K (open symbols, top axes). The
critical-field values H_(c), corresponding to the entrance to the normal
state (M = 0), are not changed when demagnetizing effects are taken into
account for H||a. The critical fields are remarkably low, H_(c) reaching
only about 90 Oe at 1.8 K, the lowest temperature available for the
magnetization measurements. Moreover, as is shown below, the critical
fields for both compounds remain small down to 0.4 K. This observation,
along with the small critical temperatures and the shape of the M(H)
isotherms, indicates type-I superconductivity in both ScGa₃ and LuGa₃.
While most elemental SCs are type I, this is a rare occurrence in
superconducting compounds, making ScGa₃ and LuGa₃ two of only a few such
known systems.[14, 15, 16, 17, 18] It is therefore imperious to fully
characterize the superconducting state in the RGa₃ SCs. Specific heat
and resistivity measurements allow us to extend the findings from
magnetization data down to lower temperatures.

Field-dependent specific heat measurements for ScGa₃ and LuGa₃ were
carried out in fields up to 240 Oe, as shown in Fig. 4. As expected, a
sharp peak is observed for field values H < 240 Oe, from which the
critical temperature T_(c) can be determined as the point halfway
between the peak and the normal state specific heat signal. Type-I
superconductivity in both compounds is confirmed by the increase of the
jump in specific heat between zero and nonzero applied magnetic field H,
indicating second- to first order phase transition. T_(c) for ScGa₃ and
LuGa₃ is suppressed from 2.1 K [open squares, Fig. 4(a)] and 2.0 K [open
squares, Fig. 4(b)], respectively, at H = 0 to below 0.4 K at H = 240 Oe
[solid line, Figs. 4(c) and 4(d)]. The normal state electronic specific
heat coefficient

Figure 1: (Color online) Powder x-ray pattern for ScGa₃ (black), with
calculated peak positions (vertical red marks) for space group
$Pm\bar{3}m$ and lattice parameter a = 4.0919 Å. Minute amounts of
residual Ga flux are marked by asterisks. Inset: A picture of a single
crystal of ScGa₃ prepared from a molten solution.

Figure 3: (Color online) (a) ScGa₃ and (b) LuGa₃$M(H_{\rm eff})$ for
temperatures between 1.8 K and 2.3 K, where $H_{\rm eff}=H-N_{d}M$ and
N_(d) is the demagnetizing factor for H||a. Open squares: M(H) isotherms
for T = 1.8 K, where H is the applied (external) magnetic field.

Figure 2: (Color online) (a) Zero-field-cooled temperature-dependent
susceptibility data, scaled by 4π and corrected for demagnetizing
effects $4\pi\,X_{\rm eff}=4\pi\,X/(1-N_{d}\,X)$, for ScGa₃ in applied
magnetic fields up to 80 Oe. (b) H = 5 Oe zero-field-cooled (solid
symbols) and field-cooled (open symbols) scaled susceptibility
$4\pi\,X_{\rm eff}$ data for ScGa₃ (squares) and LuGa₃ (triangles).

γ_(n) and phonon specific heat coefficient β were estimated from the
linear fit of the normal state (H = 240 Oe) specific heat below 8 K,
plotted as C_(p)/T vs T² (not shown). Very similar γ_(n) values, 7.11
and 8.46 mJ mol⁻¹ K⁻², were obtained for ScGa₃ and LuGa₃, respectively.
The experimental γ_(n) values are larger than those estimated
(γ_(n, PPVW) = 2.4 mJ/mol K² for ScGa₃ and 1.2 mJ/mol K² for LuGa₃) from
existing band structure calculations based on the Pseudopotential
Plane-Wave Approximation (PPPW). 7 However, a more accurate estimate of
γ_(n) results from the Full Potential Linear Augmented Plane-Wave Method
(FPLAPW), 19 which gives γ_(n, FPLAPW) = 7.1 mJ/mol K² for ScGa₃,
identical with the experimental value of 7.11 mJ/mol K². The
superconducting electronic specific heat coefficient γ_(s) can also be
determined from γ_(n) and the residual electronic specific heat
coefficient γ_(res). The latter coefficient, γ_(res), estimated from
C_(e)/T at T = 0.4 K and H = 0 [Figs. 4(c) and 4(d)], is much smaller
than γ_(n) for both compounds. This results in
γ_(s) = γ_(n) − γ_(res) ≈ γ_(n) for both ScGa₃ and LuGa₃. The
entropy-conservation construct shown in Figs. 4(c) and 4(d) for ScGa₃
and LuGa₃, respectively, yields the same value for the jump in the
electronic specific heat C_(e) at T_(c), ΔC_(e)/γ_(n)T_(c) ≈ 1.44,
consistent with BCS-type superconductivity. 20 One more similarity
between the two compounds is the minimum excitation energy Δ(0): from
the low-temperature fit of the electronic specific heat
C_(e) ∝ e^(−Δ/k_(B)T) [dashed lines in Figs. 4(c) and 4(d)], Δ(0) is
estimated to be 0.18 meV for ScGa₃ and 0.17 meV for LuGa₃. The Debye
temperature θ_(D) = (12π⁴N_(A)r⁴k_(B)/ξβ)^(1/3), where r = 4 is the
number of atoms per formula unit, can be determined using the phonon
specific heat coefficient β (Table 1), also estimated from the linear
fit of C_(p)/T vs T² (not shown). This yields θ_(D) = 660 K for ScGa₃
and 232 K for LuGa₃. Moreover, the electron-phonon coupling constant
λ_(el-ph), can be determined using McMillan’s theory: 21

$$\lambda_{\text{el-ph}}=\frac{1.04+\mu^{*}\ln(\theta_{D}/1.45T_{c})}{(1-0.62\mu^ {*})\ln(\theta_{D}/1.45T_{c})-1.04},$$

where μ^(*) represents the repulsive screened Coulomb potential and is
usually between 0.1 and 0.15. Setting μ^(*) = 0.13, λ_(el-ph) = 0.45 and
0.55 for ScGa₃ and LuGa₃, respectively, which implies that both
compounds are weakly coupled SCs.

From the specific heat data for both the superconducting (H = 0) and the
normal (H = 240 Oe) states, an estimate of the thermodynamic critical
field H_(c) can be obtained using the free energy relation. 22 The
thermodynamic critical field values H_(c) = 209 ± 10 Oe for ScGa₃ and
H_(c) = 226 ± 10 Oe for LuGa₃ are consistent with what has been observed
in magnetization and specific heat data. The field- and
temperature-dependent data can be summarized in the H-T phase diagram
shown in Fig. 6 and discussed below.

Previously reported resistivity measurements 9, 10 on LuGa₃ were limited
to temperatures above 4.2 K, while similar data had not been presented
for ScGa₃. Figure 5 displays the H = 0 resistivity data for ScGa₃ and
LuGa₃ (solid and open symbols,

Figure 4: (Color online) Specific heat data for (a) ScGa₃ and (b) LuGa₃
in applied magnetic fields up 240 Oe. (c) and (d) Normal (H = 240 Oe)
and superconducting (H = 0) electronic specific heat C_(e), scaled by
temperature T. The entropy conservation construct gives the ratio
ΔC_(es)/γ_(n)T_(c) ≈ 1.44 for both ScGa₃ and LuGa₃, with the dashed line
representing a fit of C_(e)/T to the expected BCS electronic specific
heat.

Figure 5: (Color online) H = 0 temperature-dependent resistivity for
ScGa₃ (solid black symbols) and LuGa₃ (open gray symbols), with
Bloch-Grüneisen-Mott fits (solid lines) for n = 2 (ScGa₃) and n = 3
(LuGa₃). Left inset: Low-temperature ρ(T) around T_(c). Right inset:
Δρ = ρ − ρ(0) vs T², with solid lines representing linear fits up to 80
K for ScGa₃ and 70 K for LuGa₃.

respectively). The superconducting transition (left inset) is around
2.2-2.3 K for both compounds. The apparently finite resistivity in the
superconducting state is likely an artifact of the measurement: the
overall resistivity values are very small for both compounds; below
T_(c), the contact resistance, albeit small, might alter the measured
voltage, which is very close to the instrument resolution. Above the
transition and below 80 K for ScGa₃ or 70 K for LuGa₃, ρ(T) exhibits
Fermi liquid behavior, as illustrated by the Δρ ∝ AT² plot, with
A = 3.4 × 10⁻⁴ and 6.1 × 10⁻⁴μΩcm K⁻², respectively (right inset, Fig.
5). At higher temperatures a slight curvature of the resistivity is
apparent. Fits to the Bloch-Gruneisen-Mott (BGM) relation [23] (solid
lines, Fig. 5)

$$\rho=\rho_{0}+A\left(\frac{T}{\theta_{D}}\right)^{n}\int_{0}^{\theta_{D}/T} \frac{x^{n}dx}{(e^{x}-1)(1-e^{-x})}-kT^{3},$$

with n = 2 for ScGa₃ and n = 3 for LuGa₃, describe the data well up to
room temperature, even higher than θ_(D)/4. This points to significant
s-d band scattering, while the different exponents n suggest underlying
differences in the electron-phonon scattering in the two compounds. The
fits shown in Fig. 5 were performed using the θ_(D) values determined
from specific heat; the other BGM parameters were determined to be
A = 38.5 and 28.6μΩcm and k = 1.3 × 10⁻⁷ and 0.3 × 10⁻⁷μΩcm/K³, for
ScGa₃ and LuGa₃, respectively. If the parameter θ is also released for
the BGM fits, equally good fits for n = 2 and n = 3 are achieved for
ScGa₃, for θ_(R) values between 320 K and 460 K, significantly smaller
than the Debye temperature θ_(D) = 660 K. For LuGa₃, the parameters
remain nearly unchanged, with the best fit for n = 3 and θ_(R) = 230 K
virtually identical to θ_(D) = 232 K.

Based on the Sommerfield coefficient extracted from the specific heat
data, it is possible to estimate the London penetration depth λ_(L)(0),
the coherence length ξ(0), and the GL parameter κ(0) = λ_(L)(0)/ξ(0).
Since both ScGa₃ and LuGa₃ have one formula unit per unit cell, the
conduction electron density n, due to three electrons contributed by Sc
and Lu, can be estimated as n = 3/V, where V is the volume of the unit
cell. It results that n = 4.39 × 10⁻² A⁻³ and n = 4.08 × 10⁻² A⁻³ for
ScGa₃ and LuGa₃, respectively. If a spherical Fermi surface is assumed
for both compounds, the Fermi wave vector k_(F) can be roughly
calculated as k_(F) = (3nπ²)^(1/3) = 1.09 A⁻¹ for ScGa₃ and 1.07 A⁻¹ for
LuGa₃. The effective electron mass can then be determined as
m^(*) = ℏ²k_(F)²γ_(n)/π²nk_(B)² = 0.30m₀ and 3.49m₀ for ScGa₃ and LuGa₃,
respectively, where m₀ is the free electron mass. The London penetration
depth is given as λ_(L)(0) = (m^(*)/μ₀ne²)^(1/2) = 59 nm for ScGa₃ and
63 nm for LuGa₃. The coherence length is then determined as
ξ = 0.18ℏk_(F)/k_(B)T_(c)m^(*) = 0.26μm and 0.21μm for ScGa₃ and LuGa₃,
respectively. The GL parameter κ(0) = λ_(L)(0)/ξ(0) is thus 0.23 for
ScGa₃ and 0.30 for LuGa₃. This indicates that both compounds are type-I
SCs, since $\kappa<1/\sqrt{2}$. By comparison, MgB₂ is an example of a
type-II SC and its κ(0) is close to 26, [54] while κ(0) for LuRhSi₃, a
reported type-I superconducting compound, is close to 0.25. [14]

## IV Conclusions

In summary, type-I superconductivity in ScGa₃ and LuGa₃ is reported,
with the parameters characteristic of the superconducting state shown in
Table 1. The shape of the M(H) isotherms (Fig. 3), field-induced second-
to first-order phase transition in specific heat (Fig. 4), and low
T_(c), H_(c), and κ values (Table 1) suggest that ScGa₃ and LuGa₃ are
both type-I superconducting compounds. This is reflected also in the H-T
phase diagram (Fig. 6), where the symbols represent experimental points
from M(T) (squares), M(H) (triangles), and C_(P) (circles). These data
are in good agreement with the thermodynamic critical field H_(c)
temperature dependence (solid lines). As suggested by the electronic
properties, [6] the superconducting parameters for the two compounds are
very similar, as are their H-T phase diagrams. A careful analysis of the
crystal structure on one hand and the thermodynamic and transport
properties of the type-I superconducting compounds on the other hand may
offer valuable insights into the rare occurrence of type-I
superconductivity in binary or ternary systems. The relatively small
electron-phonon coupling parameter λ_(el-ph) indicates that both
compounds are weakly coupled BCS SCs.

###### Acknowledgements.

This work was supported by NSF Grant No. DMR 0847681. We thank A.
Marcinkova, M. Beasley, A. Nevidomskyy, R. Prozorov, and L. Zhao for
useful discussions; J. Chan and G. McCandless for single-crystal x-ray
diffraction experiments; and J. Wang for assistance with band structure
calculations.

## References

* [1] B. W. Roberts, J. Phys. Chem. Ref. Data **5**, 581 (1976). * [2]
S. L. Kakani, _Material Science_ (New Age International, New Delhi,
2006). * [3] B. T. Matthias, T. H. Geballe, S. Geller, and E. Corenzwit,
Phys. Rev. **95**, 1435 (1954). * [4] B. T. Matthias, Phys. Rev. **89**,
884 (1953).

Figure 6: (Color online) H-T phase diagram for ScGa₃ (open black
symbols) and LuGa₃ (solid red symbols). The values of the critical field
H_(c) are determined from M(T) data (squares), M(H) data (triangles),
and C_(P)(T) data (circles).

* (5) V. A. Gasparov, N. S. Sidorov, I. I. Zver’kova, S. S. Khassanov,
and M. P. Kulakov, JETP Lett. **73**, 532 (2001). * (6) V. B.
Pluzhnikov, A. Czopnik, and I. V. Svechkarev, Physica B **212**, 375
(1995). * (7)http://www.aflowlib.org/index.html; S. Curtarolo, D.
Morgan, K. Persson, J. Rodgers, and G. Ceder, Phys. Rev. Lett. **91**,
135503 (2003). * (8) E. E. Havinga, H. Damsma, and M. H. van Maaren, J.
Phys. Chem. Solids **31**, 2653 (1970). * (9) Z. Kletowski, Phys. Status
Solidi **108**, 363 (1988). * (10) Z. Kletowski, R. Fabryovskii, P.
Slawinski, and Z. Henkie, J. Magn. Magn. Mater. **166**, 361 (1997). *
(11) B. T. Matthias, Phys. Rev. **97**, 74 (1954). * (12) A. Aharoni, J.
Appl. Phys. **83**, 3432 (1998). * (13) J. A. Osborn, Phys. Rev. **67**,
351 (1945). * (14) V. K. Anand, A. D. Hillier, D. T. Adroja, A. M.
Strydom, H. Michor, K. A. McEwen, and B. D. Rainford, Phys. Rev. B
**83**, 064522 (2011). * (15) S. Yonezawa and Y. Maeno, Phys. Rev. B
**72**, 180504 (2005). * (16) M. I. Tsindlekht, G. I. Leviev, V. M.
Genkin, I. Felner, Y. B. Paderno, and V. B. Filippov, Phys. Rev. B
**73**, 104507 (2006). * (17) K. Wakui, S. Akutagawa, N. Kase, K.
Kawashima, T. Muranaka, Y. Iwahori, J. Abe, and J. Akimitsu, J. Phys.
Soc. Jpn. **78**, 034710 (2009). * (18) L. L. Zhao, S. Lausberg, H. Kim,
M. A. Tanatar, M. Brando, R. Prozorov, and E. Morosan (submitted to
Phys. Rev. B). * (19) We performed band structure calculations for ScGa₃
using the full-potential linearized augmented plane-wave method
(FPLAPW), as implemented in the wienxk code. This gives the DOS(E_(F)) ≈
2 states/eV, from which it results that the electronic specific heat
coefficient $\gamma_{\rm FPLAPW}$ = 7.1 mJ/mol K². * (20) J. Bardeen, L.
N. Cooper, and J. R. Schrieffer, Phys. Rev. **108**, 1175 (1957). * (21)
W. L. McMillan, Phys. Rev. **167**, 331 (1968). * (22) M. Tinkham,
_Introduction to Superconductivity_, 2nd ed. (Dover, New York, 1996). *
(23) A. Bid, A. Bora, and A. K. Raychaudhuri, Phys. Rev. B **74**,
035426 (2006). * (24) D. K. Finnemore, J. E. Ostenson, S. L. Bud’ko, G.
Lapertot, and P. C. Canfield, Phys. Rev. Lett. **86**, 2420 (2001).
