# Effects of carrier concentration on the superfluid density of
high-T_(c) cuprates

C. Panagopoulos

IRC in Superconductivity, University of Cambridge, Cambridge CB3 0HE,
United Kingdom

B. D. Rainford

Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of Southampton,
Southampton S017 1BJ, United Kingdom

J. R. Cooper

IRC in Superconductivity, University of Cambridge, Cambridge CB3 0HE,
United Kingdom

J. L. Tallon

Industrial Research Limited, P.O. Box 31310, Lower Hutt, New Zealand

J. W. Loram

IRC in Superconductivity, University of Cambridge, Cambridge CB3 0HE,
United Kingdom

J. Betouras

Department of Physics, Theoretical Physics, University of Oxford, Oxford
OX1 3NP, United Kingdom

Y. S. Wang

Department of Physics and Texas Center for Superconductivity, University
of Houston, Houston, Texas 77204-5932

###### Abstract

The absolute values and temperature, T, dependence of the in-plane
magnetic penetration depth of La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄ and HgBa₂CuO_(4 + δ)
have been measured as a function of carrier concentration. We find that
the superfluid density ρ_(s) changes substantially and systematically
with doping. The values of ρ_(s)(0) are closely linked to the available
low-energy spectral weight as determined by the electronic entropy just
above T_(c), and the magnitude of the initial slope of
[ρ_(s)(T)/ρ_(s)(0)} increases rapidly with carrier concentration. The
results are discussed in the context of a possible relationship between
ρ_(s) and the normal-state (or pseudo)energy gap.
[S0163-1829(99)04546-4]

Superconductivity arises from the binding of electrons into Cooper
pairs, thereby forming a superfluid with a superconducting energy gap Δ
in the single-particle excitation spectrum. In high-temperature
superconductors (HTS’s), Δ has essentially d_(x² − y²) symmetry in k
space with Δ_(k) = Δ₀cos 2ϕ,1 where ϕ= arctan(_k_/_k_x_) and Δ₀ is the
superconducting gap amplitude which will in general be ϕ dependent.
Changes in carrier concentration have unusually strong effects on the
superconducting² ⁻ ⁸ and normal-state⁴ ⁻ ⁷ properties of HTS’s. There is
evidence³ ⁻ ⁷ that in addition to the superconducting gap Δ_(k) there is
a normal-state (or pseudo) gap Δ_(N) in the normal-state energy
excitation spectrum in underdoped and optimally doped samples and that
this decreases as the doping is increased. The maximum superconducting
gap amplitude Δ₀ seems to show little variation with underdoping even
though T_(c) is reduced,³ ⁻ ⁸ in disagreement with the standard
mean-field Bardeen-Cooper-Schrieffer (BCS) theory. This unusual behavior
is probably linked in some way to the presence of Δ_(N).⁷ However,
fundamental problems such as the origin of Δ_(N) and its possible effect
on the superfluid density ρ_(s) have not been clearly resolved.

Footnote 1: Δ₀ is the critical exponent of the BCS theory.

The physical quantity most directly associated with ρ_(s) is the
magnetic penetration depth λ because in the London model 1/²∝ρ_(s). The
materials studied here, La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄ and HgBa₂CuO_(4 + δ), are
particularly appropriate systems to investigate ρ_(s) as a function of
doping. Both have a simple crystal structure with one CuO₂ plane per
unit cell, can have their carrier concentration controlled, and there is
experimental evidence suggesting the presence of a normal-state gap
Δ_(N) which closes with increasing doping.^(3 − 8, 9) Here we report
in-plane penetration depth, λ_(ab) , measurements for high-quality
La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄ (LSCO) with x = 0.10, 0.15, 0.20, 0.22, 0.24
measured by the ac-susceptibility (acs) and muon spin relaxation (μSR)
techniques and for HgBa₂CuO_(4 + δ) (Hg-1201) with δ = 0.10, 0.37
measured only by μSR. We find systematic changes in ρ_(s) with carrier
concentration and a correlation with Δ_(N).

Single-phase polycrystalline samples of LSCO were prepared in Cambridge
using solid-state reaction procedures. No other phases were detected by
powder x-ray diffraction and the phase purity is thought to be better
than 1

The values of λ_(ab)(0) derived from the acs data for LSCO are 0.28,
0.26, 0.197, 0.193, and 0.194 μm for x = p = 0.10, 0.15, 0.20, 0.22, and
0.24, respectively, where p is the hole content per planar copper atom.
The maximum error for λ_(ab)(0) of the acs technique is less than ±15

The T dependence of λ_(ab) for LSCO is shown in Fig. 1(a) as a plot of
[1/λ_(ab)(T)] ² ∝ ρ_(s)(T). λ_(ab)⁻²(T) data for x = 0.10 and 0.15
obtained by μSR are also included for comparison. Overall there is good
agreement between the results from the two techniques. From the acs data
we find that the existence of an initial linear term in λ_(ab)(T),
characteristic of a clean d-wave superconductor, persists up to the
highest doping measured (x = 0.24), in agreement with electronic
specific heat studies on polycrystalline LSCO samples from the same
batch as those studied here.16 Figure 1(b) depicts data for Hg-1201
powders measured only by μSR, including data from Ref. 17 for a Hg-1201
sample (also from Houston) with δ = 0.154 (p = 0.17). As in LSCO, we
observe a change in the shape of σ(T) ∝ [1/λ_(ab)(T)] 2 of Hg-1201 with
doping and a suppression in λ_(ab)⁻²(0) with underdoping. In the
underdoped region [1/λ_(ab)(T)] 2 shows a more pronounced downward
curvature. Taking the magnitude of the slope of the low-T linear term to
be proportional to ρ_(s)(0)/Δ₀ (Ref. 8), the observed trend of
[1/λ_(ab)(T)] 2 with p would imply that Δ₀ remains approximately
constant in the underdoped region and then decreases rapidly with
overdoping.

Figure 2 shows a comparison of the present results for LSCO with
specific heat data taken on the same samples16 where a finite Δ_(N) was
observed for x = p < 0.19. In the inset we observe a good correlation
between the x dependence of [1/λ_(ab)(0)] 2 and [5/T(T_(c)) - 5/T(2K)]
where S(T) is the electronic entropy obtained by integrating the
electronic specific heat coefficient γ(T) = $C_{\rm el}/T$ from 0 to T.
The quantity [S/T(T_(c)) - 5/T(2 K)] is a measure of the
energy-dependent normal-state electronic density of states (DOS),
g_(n)(E), averaged over ± 2k_(B)T_(c) around the Fermi energy E_(F). The
effect of an energy-dependent DOS on the London penetration depth λ_(L),
or ρ_(s)(0), is not usually considered in the standard theory, which
implicitly assumes a constant DOS and a parabolic $E({\bf k})$
dispersion relation. It has been argued elsewhere5

Figure 1: (a) λ_(ab)⁻²(T) obtained by the ac-susceptibility technique
for grain-aligned La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄ (LSCO). Data obtained by μSR for
unoriented LSCO powders are also included (solid symbols). (b) σ(T) ∝
λ_(ab)⁻²(T), for HgBa₂CuO_(4 + δ) unoriented powders. The data for δ =
0.154 are taken from Ref. 17.

that ρ_(s)(0) = 4 π²⟨ν_(x)²g_(n)(E)⟩/e², where ν_(x) is the Fermi
velocity and the average is taken over an (anisotropic) energy shell,
E_(F)  ± Δ₀. Note that this result agrees with the standard expression
for the normal-state conductivity and the usual relation between
λ_(L)(0) and the real part of the frequency-dependent electronic
conductivity in the normal and superconducting states σ₁^(n)(ω) and
σ₁^(s)(ω), respectively. Namely, ρ_(s)(0) ∝ λ_(L)⁻²(0) (Ref. [18]) is
determined by the area under the [σ₁^(n)(ω) − σ₁^(n)(ω)] curve in the
frequency range 0 < hω/2π < 2Δ₀. Thus the inset to Fig. 2 suggests that
the strong decrease of ρ_(s)(0) with x from x = 0.20 to 0.10 is related
to the suppression of spectral weight with energy range E_(F)  ± Δ₀,
which is believed to be due to the presence of the normal-state gap.[4]
Conversely, the fact that ρ_(s)(0) for LSCO does not fall on the
overdoped side as in Tl-2201 (Ref. [14]) and Y:Ca-123 (Ref. [2]) may
well be associated with the observed occurrence of a low-energy peak in
the DOS, unique to LSCO,[16] which grows with overdoping.

The main panel in Fig. 2 shows a correlation between the doping
dependence of the slopes of Λ_(ab)⁻²(T) and γ(T) both quantities being
related to the number of excited quasiparticles, n_(e)(T). For low
values of x, n_(e)(T = 10 K) is much smaller than expected from the
T_(c) value, and this probably implies that the average value of Δ₀(ϕ)
is significantly larger than T_(c). The rapid rise above x = 0.20 may
arise from the combined effects of the closure of Δ_(N) at x = 0.19
(Refs. [4] and [16]) and the decreasing T_(c) values, plus the fact that
for LSCO there is significant pileup of states near E_(F) in the
overdoped region 0.20 < x < 0.35.[16]

In Fig. 3(a) we present the LSCO acs data as [Λ_(ab)(0)/Λ_(ab)(T)]²
versus T/T_(c) and compare the data with the mean-field calculation for
a d-wave weak-coupled BCS superconductor with a cylindrical Fermi
surface which gives Δ₀/T_(c) ∼ 2.14.[19] There appears to be a
systematic deviation of the data from the weak-coupling T dependence
with a greater (weaker) curvature on the underdoped (overdoped) side.
The observed trend in Λ_(ab)⁻²(T) with underdoping is in agreement with
theoretical predictions[20] based on a pseudogap scenario. In the
overdoped samples in Fig. 3(a), there is a positive curvature near
T_(c), which may arise from a small amount of doping inhomogeneity,
giving a distribution of T_(c) values in this region where dT_(c)/dp is
maximal.[10] The effect of this is to rescale the curves with a slightly
lower value of T_(c). We have modeled ρ_(s)(T) using the weak-coupled
BCS d-wave T dependence for a cylindrical Fermi surface and a normal
distribution of T_(c) values with standard deviation of 3

In contrast to the overdoped samples, the optimal and underdoped samples
both show very small rounding near T_(c). The data depart significantly
from the weak-coupling curve

Figure 3: (a) [Λ_(ab)(0)/Λ_(ab)(T)]² obtained by the ac-susceptibility
technique for grain-aligned La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄ compared with the
weak-coupling BCS theory (solid line) for a d-wave superconductor (Ref.
[19]). (b) The [Λ_(ab)(0)/Λ_(ab)(T)]² data for x = 0.20, 0.22, and 0.24
shown in panel (a), but corrected for a distribution of T_(c) values
(see text for details). The solid lines are the BCS d-wave T dependence
shown in panel (a) corrected for the respective distribution in T_(c)’s.
The curves for x = 0.22 and 0.24 are shifted vertically for clarity.

and in the opposite direction. We note that accounting for
inhomogeneities in these samples will, if anything, move the curves even
further from the weak-coupling BCS fit.

A central conclusion of the present work is that there is a crossover in
both ρ_(s)(0) and ρ_(s)(T) near p = 0.20. Such behavior is
characteristic of many other normal-state and superconducting properties
which have been interpreted in terms of the presence of Δ_(N) for
p < 0.20.[5, 23, 24, 25, 26] The proper means of incorporating the
normal-state gap effects within a realistic model and, indeed, the very
nature of the normal-state gap are a matter of current debate. However,
a key characteristic of Δ_(N) is the loss of normal-state spectral
weight near E_(F). As discussed above, the loss of spectral weight can
cause both a strong reduction in ρ_(s)(0) and, in a simple model,
enhanced curvature in [ρ_(s)(T)ρ_(s)(0)] relative to the BCS
weak-coupling d-wave T dependence,[27] the very features we observe for
the optimal and underdoped samples.

We note that the curvatures in ρ_(s)(T) in our data are in reasonable
agreement with earlier reports for slightly underdoped, grain-aligned
HgBa₂Ca₂Cu₃O_(8 + δ) (Refs. [11] and [28]) and single-crystal LSCO with
x = 0.15,[29] In contrast to the strong p dependence we have found in
[λ_(ab)(0)/λ_(ab)(T)]² for LSCO and Hg-1201, studies in YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ)
(YBCO) (Refs. [30] and [31]) showed that [λ_(ab)(0)/λ_(ab)(T)]² scaled
approximately with T/T_(c) for various dopings, at all temperatures.
However, systematic changes in [λ_(ab)(0)/λ_(ab)(T)]² with p were noted
at the time,[31] although these were too small to allow further
analysis. This may simply be due to the fact that the YBCO samples were
not as heavily underdoped as the x = 0.10 LSCO sample. We also note that
YBCO is complicated by a mixed s + d order parameter[1, 32] and the
effect of the Cu-O chains on the total superfluid density ρ_(s).[33, 34]
Furthermore, the high sensitivity of λ measurements on sample quality is
one of the main reasons for the incomplete and inconclusive data
available from earlier measurements.[35]

In summary, using the acs and μSR techniques, we have obtained
consistent and systematic results on the effects of carrier
concentration on ρ_(s) of monolayer cuprates. In the overdoped region we
find a reasonably constant value of ρ_(s)(0) (up to p = 0.24), and
[ρ_(s)(T)/ρ_(s)(0)] is in good agreement with the weak-coupling d-wave T
dependence. In the optimal and underdoped regions ρ_(s)(0) is rapidly
suppressed, and above 0.1T_(c) there is a marked departure of
[ρ_(s)(T)/ρ_(s)(0)] from the weak-coupling curve. Our data are entirely
consistent with available specific heat data, which give evidence for a
link between the behavior of ρ_(s) and the normal-state gap Δ_(N).

We thank P. A. Lee, P. B. Littlewood, T. Xiang, and J. F. Annett for
helpful discussion, J. Chrosch for assistance with part of the x-ray
analysis of the grain-aligned samples, and P. King and C. Scott (ISIS)
for technical support during the μSR measurements. C.P. thanks Trinity
College, Cambridge, for financial support.

## References

* [1] C. C. Tsuei and J. R. Kirtley, Physica C **282-287**, 4 (1997). *
[2] C. Bernhard _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **52**, 10 488 (1995); Y. J.
Uemura _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **62**, 2317 (1989). * [3] T. Nakano
_et al._, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **67**, 2622 (1998). * [4] J. R. Cooper and
J. W. Loram, J. Phys. I **6**, 2237 (1996). * [5] J. W. Loram, K. A.
Mirza, and J. R. Cooper, in _High Temperature Superconductivity_,
Research Review, edited by W. Y. Liang (Cambridge University Press,
Cambridge, England, 1998). * [6] B. Batlogg _et al._, Physica C
**235-240**, 130 (1994). * [7] J. W. Loram _et al._, Physica C
**235-240**, 134 (1994). * [8] C. Panagopoulos and T. Xiang, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **81**, 2336 (1998), and references therein. * [9] J. Bobroff _et
al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **78**, 3757 (1997). * [10] P. G. Radaelli _et
al._, Phys. Rev. B **49**, 4163 (1994). * [11] C. Panagopoulos _et al._,
Phys. Rev. B **53**, R2999 (1996), and references therein. * [12] W.
Barford and J. M. F. Gunn, Physica C **156**, 515 (1988). * [13] R. L.
Meng _et al._, Physica C **216**, 21 (1993). * [14] Ch. Niedermayer _et
al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **71**, 1764 (1993). * [15] Q. Xiong _et al._,
Phys. Rev. B **50**, 10 346 (1994). * [16] J. W. Loram _et al._, 10th
Annual HTS Workshop (World Scientific, Singapore, 1996), p. 341. * [17]
B. Nachumi _et al._, Hyperfine Interact. **105**, 119 (1997). * [18] M.
Tinkham, _Introduction to Superconductivity_ (McGraw-Hill, New York,
1975). * [19] P. J. Hirschfeld and N. Goldenfeld, Phys. Rev. B **48**,
4219 (1993). * [20] Q. Chen, I. Kosztin, B. Janko, and K. Levin, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **81**, 4708 (1998). * [21] A. Ino _et al._, J. Phys. Soc.
Jpn. **68**, 1496 (1999). * [22] T. Xiang and J. M. Wheatley, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **77**, 4632 (1996). * [23] J. L. Tallon _et al._, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **79**, 5294 (1997). * [24] G. S. Boebinger _et al._, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **77**, 5417 (1998). * [25] H. Ding _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**78**, 2628 (1997); M. R. Norman _et al._, Nature (London) **392**, 157
(1998). * [26] T. Ito, K. Takenaka, and S. Uchida, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**70**, 3995 (1993). * [27] G. V. M. Williams, E. M. Haines, and J. L.
Tallon, Phys. Rev. B **57**, 146 (1998); J. W. Loram (unpublished). *
[28] C. Panagopoulos _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **79**, 2320 (1997). *
[29] T. Shibauchi _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **72**, 2263 (1994). * [30]
D. A. Bonn _et al._, Czech. J. Phys. **46**, S6, 3195 (1996). * [31] C.
Panagopoulos, J. R. Cooper, and T. Xiang, Phys. Rev. B **57**, 13 422
(1998). * [32] W. A. Atkinson and J. P. Carbotte, Phys. Rev. B **52**,
10 601 (1995); J. J. Betouras and R. Joynt, _ibid._**57**, 11 752
(1998). * [33] J. L. Tallon _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **74**, 1008
(1995). * [34] C. Panagopoulos, J. L. Tallon, and T. Xiang, Phys. Rev. B
**59**, R6635 (1999). * [35] K. M. Paget, S. Guha, M. Z. Cieplak, I. E.
Trofimov, S. J. Turneature, and T. R. Lemberger, Phys. Rev. B **59**,
641 (1999), and references therein.
