Angular-dependent upper critical field of overdoped
Ba(Fe_(1 − x)Ni_(x))₂As₂

J. Murphy,^(1, 2) M. A. Tanatar,^(1, 2) D. Graf,³ J. S. Brooks,³ S. L.
Bud’ko,^(1, 2) P. C. Canfield,^(1, 2) V. G. Kogan,¹ and R.
Prozorov^(1, 2, *)

¹Ames Laboratory, US DOE, Ames, Iowa 50011, USA

²Department of Physics and Astronomy, Iowa State University, Ames, Iowa
50011, USA

³National High Magnetic Field Laboratory, Florida State University,
Tallahassee, Florida 32310, USA

###### Abstract

In-plane resistivity measurements as a function of temperature, magnetic
field, and its orientation with respect to the crystallographic ab plane
were used to study the upper critical field, H_(c2), of two overdoped
compositions of the iron-based superconductor Ba(Fe_(1 − x)Ni_(x))₂As₂,
x = 0.054 and x = 0.072. Measurements were performed using precise
alignment (with accuracy less than 0.1^(∘)) of magnetic field with
respect to the Fe-As plane. The dependence of the H_(c2) on angle θ
between the field and the ab plane was measured in isothermal conditions
in a broad temperature range. We found that the shape of H_(c2)(θ)
clearly deviates from the Ginzburg-Landau functional form.

pacs: 74.70.Xa, 74.25.Dw, 72.15.Eb + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL
REVIEW B **87**, 094505 (2013)

## I Introduction

The theory of the upper critical field in superconductors was
essentially developed by the mid-1960s,[1, 2, 3] with the linear
H_(c2)(T) behavior close to T_(c) described by the anisotropic
Ginzburg-Landau theory,[4, 5] leading in tetragonal crystals to
dependence of H_(c2) on angle θ with respect to the ab plane:

$$H_{c2}(\theta)=\frac{H_{c2,ab}}{\sqrt{\left(\gamma_{H}^{2}-1\right)\sin^{2} \theta+1}},\quad\gamma_{H}=\frac{H_{c2,ab}}{H_{c2,c}},$$
(1)

where H_(c2, ab) = H_(c2)(θ = 0) is the upper critical field along the
ab plane of a crystal and γ_(H) is the anisotropy parameter. Renewed
interest to studies of the upper critical field was brought by the
discovery of materials with potentially unconventional pairing
mechanisms, heavy fermion, organic, and especially cuprate
superconductors, with the well documented d symmetry of the
superconducting order parameter in the latter case.[6] It was quickly
recognized that the angular dependence of the upper critical field, in
particular on the angle ϕ in the basal plane of the tetragonal crystals,
can be used to probe the anisotropy of the superconducting order
parameter.[7] These ideas were further developed for unconventional
superconductors with various exotic order parameters in a series of
papers by Maki and co-workers.[8, 9, 10, 11, 12] They stimulated a
series of experimental studies, in particular in Sr₂RuO₄,[13, 14, 15]
heavy fermion,[16] and organic superconductors.[17, 18, 19, 20, 21]

Although these developments were correctly catching the importance of
the anisotropy of the superconducting gap structure for the
angular-dependent H_(c2), the theoretical data analysis was
oversimplified by assumption of simple cylindrical or spherical Fermi
surface shapes. The importance of the Fermi surface topology for the
anisotropy of the H_(c2) was brought to focus by the discovery of
pronounced multiband effects in superconductivity of MgB₂.[22, 23, 24]
The upper critical field of this layered material is anisotropic and can
be varied significantly by carbon and aluminum doping,[25, 26, 27]
controlling the mean free path of the carriers and changing the
interband coupling. Theoretical modeling explicitly took these effects
into consideration and produced the angular dependence of the H_(c2)(θ)
which was virtually identical to the dependence of Eq. (1).[28]

Recent developments in understanding of the upper critical field were
greatly stimulated by the discovery in 2008 of the layered FeAs
superconductors,[29] which opened up a new avenue in high-T_(c)
research. The upper critical fields of iron pnictides are very high,[30]
and besides the potential for high field applications,[31] this brings
the possibility of the paramagnetic effects at low temperatures.[32]

Since Fe-As layers form a main building block of all iron-based
superconductors,[33, 34, 35, 36] these compounds show anisotropy of the
electronic structure, reflected in the anisotropy γ_(H) of the upper
critical field. Unlike signature layered materials, organic
superconductors,[37] and cuprates,[38] the values of γ_(H) in iron
arsenides are small, for most compounds in the range 2-4,[39, 40, 41,
42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48] with few exceptions[49, 50, 51] where values
as high as 7 to 10 are found; see Ref. [52] for review. Furthermore,
γ_(H) in iron arsenides shows notable temperature dependence, presumably
reflecting multiband effects.[46] Low anisotropy values suggest that at
least close to the critical temperature in zero field, T_(c)(H = 0), we
are dealing with orbital H_(c2).

The detailed study of the anisotropy of the upper critical field along
principal a and c directions as a function of doping was undertaken in
the series of electron-doped compounds Ba(Fe_(1 − x)Co_(x))₂As₂ (BaCo122
in the following).[42] It was found that γ_(H) changes significantly
between underdoped x < 0.08 and overdoped regions of the phase diagram,
presumably reflecting change of the electronic structure. Comparison
with optimally doped Ba(Fe_(1 − x)Ni_(x))₂As₂ (BaNi122 in the
following), x = 0.046[47, 48] suggested that the anisotropy is not
particularly sensitive to the amount of disorder introduced by dopant x.

On the other hand, several studies pointed out complex superconducting
gap structure of iron arsenides, both in BaCo122[53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58]
and analogous BaNi122.[59] For both these materials, it was suggested
that notable superconducting gap modulations along c axis should be
characteristic of the overdoped regime. Since this gap variation might
be reflected in the angular dependence of the H_(c2)(θ), we decided to
perform systematic study of these compositions. To our knowledge, there
was only one study addressing angular variation of H_(c2) in iron-based
superconductors,[60] providing no high angular resolution data.

In this paper we perform a detailed characterization of the upper
critical field in overdoped BaNi122 as a function of temperature and
field direction. Our main experimental finding is a clear deviation of
the angular dependence from Eq. (1), particularly strong for the
directions of the magnetic field close to H ∥ c, where orbital effects
should be the strongest.

## II Experiment

Single crystals of Ba(Fe_(1 − x)Ni_(x))₂As₂ were grown from FeAs flux
using a starting load of metallic Ba, FeAs, and NiAs, as described in
detail elsewhere.[48] Crystals were thick platelets with large faces
corresponding to the tetragonal (001) plane. Actual composition of the
crystals was determined using wavelength dispersive spectroscopy (WDS)
x-ray electron probe microanalysis.[48] The two compositions studied
were on the overdoped side of the phase diagram, slightly overdoped
x = 0.054 (T_(c) = 16 K) and strongly overdoped x = 0.072 (T_(c) = 7.5
K), whereas maximum T_(c) = 19 K is achieved at optimal doping,
$x_{\rm opt}=0.046$;[47, 48] see doping phase diagram in inset in Fig.
1.

Samples for in-plane resistivity, ρ, measurements were cleaved with a
razor blade into rectangular strips with typical dimensions, 2 x
(0.1-0.3) x (0.03-0.1) mm³, and the long side corresponding to
tetragonal a axis. All sample dimensions were measured with an accuracy
of about 10

The stepping motor driven rotator enabled _in situ_ rotation with
0.05^(∘) resolution around a horizontal axis in a single axis rotation
system of vertical 35 T magnetic field. During this rotation the
direction of magnetic field with respect to the crystal stays in a plane
of rotation; see Fig. 2. We can precisely

Figure 2: (Color online) During experiments in a single axis rotation
system of a 35 T magnet, the direction of magnetic field was aligned
parallel to the conducting plane by resistivity measurements in field H
slightly lower than H_(c2∥), in which sample resistance shows strong
angular dependence (black line in the top panel). The curve was measured
in one-sided motion of the rotator to avoid backlash, with deep minimum
corresponding to a H ∥ ab or θ = 0 condition. The red open symbols show
alignment measurements, taken in a second angular sweep of the same
rotation direction, and stopped at θ = 0. H and T sweeps were used to
determine the phase diagrams in the H ∥ ab condition, and then magnetic
field angle θ with respect to the plane was changed by continuing
rotation of the sample in the same direction as during alignment.
Because the orientation of the sample in the third direction,
perpendicular to the rotation plane, was set by eye there may exist a
nonzero angle φ between the field-rotation plane and the plane of the
normal to the sample. In most cases, this angle should be less than
5^(∘).

Figure 1: (Color online) Temperature-dependent resistivity of two
samples of BaFe_(1 − x)Ni_(x)As₂ used in this study, with x = 0.054
(slightly overdoped) and x = 0.072 (strongly overdoped), with doping
level indicated with arrows with respect to the temperature-doping phase
diagram of BaNi122 after Refs. [47] and [48] shown in the inset. Note
pronounced curvature of the ρ(T) for T > T_(c), typical of overdoped
compositions.[62] Sample resistivity value is defined with accuracy of
about 20

align the direction of the magnetic field parallel to the sample plane
within the rotation plane, defined as θ = 0, using angular dependence of
resistivity, measured in a magnetic field slightly below H_(c2)[2]. This
alignment is illustrated in Fig. 2. In an ideal case of the second
sample axis coinciding with the rotation axis, the field-rotation plane
should contain c axis of the sample. There may have been a nonzero
uncontrolled angle φ between the field-rotation plane and the plane of
the normal to the sample; see Fig. 2. We estimate that φ < 5^(∘).

## III Results

In Figs. 3 and 4 we show raw ρ(T) data for a set of magnetic fields
aligned approximately along the c axis (θ = 90^(∘), top panels) and
precisely along the conducting plane (θ = 0^(∘), bottom panels), for
BaNi122 samples with x = 0.054 and x = 0.072, respectively. We show also
the lines corresponding to 20

As can be most clearly seen from the bottom panel of Fig. 3, the shapes
of the H_(c2)(T) phase diagrams in parallel and perpendicular field
orientations share the same features as found in previous studies of
other Fe based systems. The H_(c2, ab)(T) flattens at low temperatures,
while H_(c2, c)(T) maintains positive curvature down to the lowest
temperatures of our experiment. Both these features are typical for
layered materials; see, for example, Refs. [37] and [64].

Figure 4: (Color online) In-plane resistivity ρ_(a) vs temperature for
heavily overdoped Ba(Fe_(1 − x)Ni_(x))_(x)As₂, x = 0.072 in magnetic
fields (a) parallel to the conducting ab plane (right to left, 0 T, 1 T,
2.5 T, 5 T, 7.5 T, 10 T, 15 T, 17.5 T, 20 T, and 22.5 T) and (b)
parallel to the c axis (right to left, 0 T, 1 T 2 T, 4 T, and 6 T).
Lines indicate 20

Figure 3: (Color online) In-plane resistivity ρ_(a) vs temperature for
slightly overdoped Ba(Fe_(1 − x)Ni_(x))_(x)As₂; x = 0.054 in magnetic
fields (a) parallel to the conducting ab plane (right to left, 0 T, 1 T,
2.5 T, 5 T, 7.5 T, 10 T, 15 T, 17.5 T, 20 T, 25 T, 30 T, and 35 T) and
(b) parallel to the c axis (right to left, 0 T, 1 T, 2 T, 4 T, 8 T, 10
T, 12 T, 15 T, 20 T, 30 T, and 35 T). Lines indicate 20

In Figs. 5 and 6 we show field dependences of in-plane resistivity taken
at fixed temperatures with inclination angle θ as a parameter for
slightly overdoped sample with x = 0.054 and strongly overdoped sample
x = 0.072, respectively. The data analysis will be presented in the next
section.

## IV Discussion

### Angular dependence of H_(c2)

To check if Eq. (1) describes our data, instead of commonly used data
fitting, as shown in the bottom panels of Figs. 5 and 6, we used an
approach based on data transformation so as to make possible deviations
clearly visible. According to Eq. (1), the H_(c2)⁻² vs (sin²θ) should be
a straight line, and in Figs. 7 and 8 we plot the data this way for
samples with x = 0.054 and x = 0.72, respectively. The data show clear
deviation from linear trend, irrespective of the criterion of H_(c2)
determination from the resistivity data, with the deviation being the
strongest close to H ∥ c axis or sin²θ = 1. To check if the deviation
from Eq. (1) in Figs. 7 and 8 can be caused by finite inclination angle
φ (see Fig. 2 for the definition), here we provide the angular
dependence of H_(c2) for arbitrary φ. Choosing the cross section of the
plane, in which H is rotated, with the ab crystal plane (see Fig. 2) as
the x axis, we obtain in the crystal frame ĉ = (0, 0, 1) and the unit
vector along the field ĥ = (cos θ, sin θ sin φ, sin θ cos φ). This
gives, for the angle θ_(c) between the field and c axis,
cos θ_(c) = ĉ ⋅ ĥ = sin θ cos φ. We then obtain for geometry of our
experiment

$$H_{c2}(\theta,\varphi)=\frac{H_{c2,ab}}{\sqrt{\left(\gamma_{H}^{2}-1\right) \cos^{2}\varphi\ \sin^{2}\theta+1}}.$$
(2)

It is seen that constant φ, as determined by our experimental geometry,
does not change the linear relation of H_(c2)⁻² vs sin²θ, despite
changing the magnitude of the variation, vanishing for φ = 90^(∘),
corresponding to field rotation parallel to the conducting plane.
Therefore, the linear dependence of H_(c2)⁻² on sin²θ is not affected by
a misalignment φ.

The H_(c2)(θ) described by Eq. (1) is a direct consequence of the
linearized Ginzburg-Landau (GL) equation for anisotropic

Figure 5: (Color online) Field dependence of in-plane resistivity ρ(H)
of a slightly overdoped Ba(Fe_(1 − x)Ni_(x))₂As₂, x = 0.054 sample at
T = 13 K [panel (a)] and T = 9 K [panel (b)] with the magnetic field
inclination angle θ as a parameter. (c) Isotherms H_(c2)(θ), obtained at
9 K and 13 K, using 80

Figure 6: (Color online) Field dependence of in-plane resistivity ρ(H)
of strongly overdoped Ba(Fe_(1 − x)Ni_(x))₂As₂, x = 0.072 sample at
T = 1.5 K [panel (a)] and T = 4 K [panel (b)] with magnetic field
inclination angle θ as a parameter. (c) Isotherms H_(c2)(θ), obtained
1.5 K and 4 K, using 80

materials at H_(c2):

−(ξ²)_(ik)Π_(i)Π_(k)Ψ = Ψ,
(3)

where Π = ∇ + 2πi A/ϕ₀, A is the vector potential, and ϕ₀ is the flux
quantum; summation is implied over repeating indices. Both sides of this
equation are scalars, so that (ξ²)_(ik) is a second rank tensor with the
standard angular dependence which is reflected in Eq. (1).

We note that, in the original papers, the angular dependence, Eq. (1),
has been derived for single band s-wave superconductors. It has also
been recently shown that this behavior is expected for arbitrary Fermi
surface, the superconducting gap modulation, and for multiband
materials.[65] However, this conclusion is achieved assuming the
explicit factorization of the pairing potential and order parameter,
V(k, k^(′)) = V₀Ω(k)Ω(k^(′)) and Δ(T, k) = Ψ(r, T)Ω(k_(F)). There is no
microscopic justification for such factorization in complex
superconductors and deviations from Eq. (1) can be naturally explained
by violation of this procedure. In addition, for iron pnictides the
importance of the paramagnetic effects for magnetic fields parallel to
the Fe-As plane was suggested to explain the unusual shape of the
H_(c2)(T).[32, 60, 66] This may also lead to the deviation from Eq. (1)
with the maximum effect expected at low temperatures and for
orientations close to H ∥ ab planes.

Clearly, "separable"potentials do not exhaust all possible interactions
and, therefore, other forms of the angular dependence H_(c2)(θ) can
exist. An example of such a potential has been studied in Ref. [9]. Such
potentials may lead to gradient terms in GL equations different from the
standard form Eq. (3) and, therefore, different from Eq. (1) angular
dependencies; see, e.g., Ref. [67]. We should also mention deviations
from the angular dependence Eq. (1) which arise in two- and
one-dimensional situations.[68, 69]

We therefore may conclude that deviations of the observed angular
dependence of H_(c2) from the form (1) (or deviations of H_(c2)⁻²
plotted vs sin²θ from the straight line) signal that the coupling
potential cannot be written in the separable form. On the other hand,
the example of separable potentials (for any Fermi surface and any order
parameter symmetry) shows that there is no direct relation between the
angular dependence of H_(c2), Fermi surfaces, and order parameter
symmetries. However, deviations of H_(c2)(θ) from the form (1) may carry
such information. To investigate this question further one would need
better data on these deviations, in particular, criterion-independent
determination of H_(c2), which is hard to achieve in resistive
measurements. On the theoretical side, of course, one should go beyond
the weak coupling and separable coupling potentials.

Motivated by these considerations, we compile in Fig. 9 the published
data for various layered materials, analyzed by

Figure 8: (Color online) Angular dependence H_(c2)(θ), determined from
fixed temperature ρ(H) of Fig. 6 using 20

Figure 7: (Color online) Angular dependence H_(c2)(θ), determined from
fixed temperature ρ(H) of Fig. 5 using 20

Figure 9: (Color online) Analysis of the isothermal angular dependence
of H_(c2) on inclination angle to the highly conducting plane θ, using
linearization plot H_(c2)⁻²(sin²θ). Left panels show digitized
H_(c2)(θ); right panels plot the same data as H_(c2)⁻²(sin²θ): (a)
Graphite intercalation compounds^(∞)C₄RbHg (T_(c) = 0.99 K; measurements
taken at T_(h) = 0.44 K, open circles) and C₄KHg (T_(c) = 0.73 K,
T_(h) = 0.40 K, solid squares); (b) Sr₂RuO₄ (T_(c) = 1.43 K,
T_(h) = 0.10 K, Ref. [15]); (c) Mg(B_(1 − x)Al_(x))₂, Ref. [26],
x = 0.12 (T_(c) = 30.8 K, T_(h) = 14 K, black solid squares, and
T_(h) = 23 K, red solid circles) and x = 0.21 (T_(c) = 25.5 K,
T_(h) = 10 K, blue open circles); (d) NbSe₂, Ref. [71] (T_(c) = 7.2 K,
T_(h) = 4.2 K); (e) (Ba_(1 − x)K_(x))Fe₂As₂, Ref. [60] (T_(c) = 28 K,
T_(h) = 20 K, using different criteria for resistive transition: zero
resistance, black triangles; midpoint, red circles; onset, green
squares); (f) KFe₂As₂, Ref. [66] (T_(c) = 3.8 K, T_(h) = 0.5 K).

plotting H_(c2)⁻² vs sin²θ. The data are arranged with decreasing
anisotropy from top to bottom. The most anisotropic materials, staged
graphite intercalation compounds (top panel, data from Ref. [70]) and
layered Sr₂RuO₄ (data from Ref. [15]), closely follow Eq. (1).
Interestingly, clear deviations from this behavior in Sr₂RuO₄, arising
due to an unusual limiting mechanism in magnetic fields close to
H ∥ ab,[15] are very difficult to recognize in a limited angular range
near θ = 0, as the dependence in the whole range is dominated by the
anisotropy of the Fermi surface. On the other hand, two materials in
which superconductivity shows strong multiband features, MgB₂[26] and
NbSe₂,[71] show distinctly different angular dependences. The
H_(c2)⁻²(sin²θ) in pure MgB₂[72] shows a downward bent as the field
approaches c axis, θ = 90^(∘), similar to but much less pronounced than
our observations in BaNi122. On the other hand, doped
Mg(B_(1 − x)Al_(x))₂ closely follows the linear H_(c2)⁻²(sin²θ)
dependence, Eq. (1), which may suggest that doping diminishes multiband
effects due to enhanced interband scattering. For pure NbSe₂ the
H_(c2)⁻²(sin²θ) plot shows most clear deviations from linearity among
all materials, with an upward curvature towards θ = 90^(∘), an opposite
trend to pure MgB₂ and BaNi122. The two angular data sets for profoundly
multiband iron pnictide superconductors, slightly underdoped BaK122[60]
and heavily overdoped K122.[66] generally follow linear dependence
despite a profound difference in the superconducting gap structure,
nodeless in the former case[73] and with vertical line nodes in the
latter.[74] Considering that, among all the materials for which we were
able to find published H_(c2)(θ), only pure multiband MgB₂ and NbSe₂
reveal clear deviations from Eq. (1), it is tempting to relate the
observed deviations to the multiband superconductivity in the clean
limit. This might be quite natural that in these systems the
factorization of the pairing potential and of the order parameter does
not hold given the complexity of the in- and interband interactions.
This explanation, however, is not universal, since multiband effects are
very pronounced in high purity crystals of KFe₂As₂, but no clear
deviations from Eq. (1) are found there. On the other hand, it is hard
to consider overdoped BaNi122 as a clean system, since scattering due to
substitutional disorder, especially on the Fe site, is significant in
these compositions. The observation that the deviations from the linear
plot in MgB₂ diminish with disorder suggest that the k dependence of the
gap magnitude, rather than the multiband nature of the Fermi surface
itself, is important for the unusual angular dependence. This conclusion
is in line with the recent extension of the Helfand and Werthamer (HW)
theory for multiband superconductors with arbitrary Fermi surfaces.[65]

In discussing these results we should keep in mind that, in all cases,
except for Sr₂RuO₄, the H_(c2) was measured resistively, so that
inevitably its determination is approximate since the resistive
transition as a rule has finite width and hence the H_(c2) values depend
on a criterion chosen. Finite resistivity in the flux-flow regime (most
pronounced in the clean systems) broadens the transition making
resistive determination difficult. From this point of view, assertions
of Kim _et al.[26]_ that their data allow one to distinguish between two
models, GL and two-band Usadel approach by Gurevich,[28] are hard to
accept.

In compounds with relatively high T_(c), the determination of H_(c2)
from resistive measurements is also complicated by the phenomenon of
vortex lattice melting: above the melting point, the resistivity is
close to that of the normal phase and H_(c2)_per se_ becomes invisible
in resistivity measurements. This complication in a given material might
affect the measurements stronger near T_(c) than at low temperatures.

### Temperature dependence of H_(c2)

There are two mechanisms that determine the upper critical field of
superconductors. The first one, determined by the supercurrent flow to
screen the magnetic field, is referred to as orbital limiting and
described by HW theory.[1, 2] The upper critical field at T → 0 limit,
H_(c2)(0), in HW theory is determined by the slope of the H_(c2)(T)
curve close to T_(c), and as T goes to zero the curve shows downward
deviation from linear dependence and eventual saturation towards the
value H_(c2)(0) $\approx 0.7T_{c}\frac{dH_{c2}}{dT^{2}}$ in the
isotropic case.

Rather rare exceptions, when the upper critical field is not determined
by the orbital motion, are found in the materials in which orbital
motion of electrons is hampered by either short mean free path, heavy
mass of conduction electrons in heavy fermion materials, or weak links
between the conducting layers in Josephson structures or in naturally
layered materials, provided that the magnetic field is aligned precisely
parallel to the conducting layer. In this situation the upper critical
field H_(c2) is determined by Zeeman splitting of electron levels, known
as the Clogston-Chandrasekhar[7] paramagnetic limit. This field is
determined by a decrease of paramagnetic energy becoming equal to the
condensation energy of a superconductor. In weak coupling BCS
superconductors the paramagnetic limiting field is determined in the
T → 0 limit as H_(p) = 1.84T_(c), where H_(p) is the field in T and
T_(c) is in K.

As can be seen from Figs. 3 and 4 the upper critical fields in H ∥ ab
configuration are higher than the weak-limit paramagnetic limiting
H_(p), equal to 32.2 T (x = 0.054) and 13.8 T (x = 0.072). These high
values may come from the strong coupling nature of superconductivity in
iron pnictides, or indeed reflect paramagnetic limiting at low
temperatures, as was suggested in several studies.[32, 60, 66]

## V Conclusions

By performing a high angular resolution study of the upper critical
field in two overdoped compositions of iron pnictide superconductor
Ba(Fe_(1 − x)Ni_(x))₂As₂, we find clear deviations from the anisotropic
Ginzburg-Landau form. Implementing linearization plot analysis of our
and previously published data, we find clear deviations from the form
only in the case of clean fully gapped multiband superconductors, such
as NbSe₂ and MgB₂, but not in dirty MgB₂ and not clean KFe₂As₂. We
speculate that the dependence may reflect c-axis modulation of the
superconducting gap, as suggested by anisotropic penetration depth and
thermal conductivity measurements.[53, 54, 59]

###### Acknowledgements.

We thank A. Gurevich and A. G. Lebed’ for useful comments. Work at the
Ames Laboratory was supported by the Department of Energy-Basic Energy
Sciences under Contract No. DE-AC02-07CH11358. J.S.B. acknowledges
support from NSF DMR 1005293. Work at the National High Magnetic Field
Laboratory is supported by the NSF Cooperative Agreement No. DMR0654118
and by the state of Florida. * [36] F. Hunte, J. Jaroszynski, A.
Gurevich, D. C. Larbalestier, R. Jin, A. S. Sefat, M. A. McGuire, B. C.
Sales, D. K. Christen, and D. Mandrus, Nature (London) **453**, 903
(2008). * [37] M. Putti, I. Pallecchi, E. Bellingeri, M. Tropeano, C.
Ferdeghini, A. Palenzona, C. Tarantini, A. Yamamoto, J. Jiang, J.
Jaroszynski, F. Kametani, D. Abraimov, A. Polyanskii, J. D. Weiss, E. E.
Hellstrom, A. Gurevich, D. C. Larbalestier, R. Jin, B. C. Sales, A. S.
Sefat, M. A. McGuire, D. Mandrus, P. Cheng, Y. Jia, H. H. Wen, S. Lee,
and C. Eom, Supercond. Sci. Technol. **23**, 034003 (2010). * [38] K.
Cho, H. Kim, M. A. Tanatar, Y. J. Song, Y. S. Kwon, W. A. Coniglio, C.
C. Agosta, A. Gurevich, and R. Prozorov, Phys. Rev. B **83**, 060502
(2011). * [39] J. Paglione and R. L. Greene, Nature Phys. **6**, 645
(2010). * [40] D. C. Johnston, Adv. Phys. **59**, 803 (2010). * [41] P.
C. Canfield and S. L. Bud’ko, Annu. Rev. Condens. Matter Phys. **1**, 27
(2010). * [42] G. R. Stewart, Rev. Mod. Phys. **83**, 1589 (2011). *
[43] See T. Ishiguro, J. Phys. IV **10**, 139 (2000), for a review of
the experimental data. * [44] Y. Hidaka, Y. Enomoto, M. Suzuki, M. Oda,
A. Katsui, and T. Murakama, Jpn. J. Appl. Phys. **26**, L726 (1987); Y.
Iye, T. Tamegai, H. Takeya, and H. Takei, _ibid._**26**, L1057 (1987);
T. K. Worthington, W. J. Gallagher, and T. R. Dinger, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**59**, 1160 (1987). * [45] Y. Jia, P. Cheng, L. Fang, H. Yang, C. Ren,
L. Shan, C.-Z. Gu, and H.-H. Wen, Supercond. Sci. Technol. **21**,
105018 (2008). * [46] U. Welp, R. Xie, A. E. Koshelev, W. K. Kwok, P.
Cheng, L. Fang, and H.-H. Wen, Phys. Rev. B **78**, 140510 (2008). *
[47] M. M. Altarawneh, K. Collar, C. H. Mielke, N. Ni, S. L. Bud’ko, and
P. C. Canfield, Phys. Rev. B **78**, 220505 (2008). * [48] N. Ni, M. E.
Tillman, J.-Q. Yan, A. Kracher, S. T. Hannahs, S. L. Bud’ko, and P. C.
Canfield, Phys. Rev. B **78**, 214515 (2008). * [49] U. Welp, R. Xie, A.
E. Koshelev, W. K. Kwok, H. Q. Luo, Z. S. Wang, G. Mu, and H. H. Wen,
Phys. Rev. B **79**, 094505 (2009). * [50] M. H. Fang, J. H. Yang, F. F.
Balakirev, Y. Kohama, J. Singleton, B. Qian, Z. Q. Mao, H. D. Wang, and
H. Q. Yuan, Phys. Rev. B **81**, 020509 (2010). * [51] A. Yamamoto, J.
Jaroszynski, C. Tarantini, L. Balicas, J. Jiang, A. Gurevich, D. C.
Larbalestier, R. Jin, A. S. Sefat, M. A. McGuire, B. C. Sales, D. K.
Christen, and D. Mandrus, Appl. Phys. Lett. **94**, 062511 (2009). *
[52] M. A. Tanatar, N. Ni, C. Martin, R. T. Gordon, H. Kim, V. G. Kogan,
G. D. Samolyuk, S. L. Bud’ko, P. C. Canfield, and R. Prozorov, Phys.
Rev. B **79**, 094507 (2009). * [53] P. C. Canfield, S. L. Bud’ko, N.
Ni, J. Q. Yan, and A. Kracher, Phys. Rev. B **80**, 060501(R) (2009). *
[54] N. Ni, A. Thaler, J. Q. Yan, A. Kracher, E. Colombier, S. L.
Bud’ko, P. C. Canfield, and S. T. Hannahs, Phys. Rev. B **82**, 024519
(2010). * [55] U. Welp, C. Chaparro, A. E. Koshelev, W. K. Kwok, A.
Rydh, N. D. Zhigadlo, J. Karpinski, and S. Weyeneth, Phys. Rev. B
**83**, 100513(R) (2011).

* (50) N. Ni, J. M. Allred, B. C. Chan, and R. J. Cava, Proc. Natl.
Acad. Sci. USA **108**, E1019 (2011). * (51) G. Li, G. Grissonnanche,
J.-Q. Yan, R. W. McCallum, T. A. Lograsso, H. D. Zhou, and L. Balicas,
Phys. Rev. B **86**, 054517 (2012). * (52) A. Gurevich, Rep. Prog. Phys.
**74**, 124501 (2011). * (53) M. A. Tanatar, J.-Ph. Reid, H.
Shakeripour, X. G. Luo, N. Doiron-Leyraud, N. Ni, S. L. Bud’ko, P. C.
Canfield, R. Prozorov, and L. Taillefer, Phys. Rev. Lett. **104**,
067002 (2010). * (54) J.-Ph. Reid, M. A. Tanatar, X. G. Luo, H.
Shakeripour, N. Doiron-Leyraud, N. Ni, S. L. Bud’ko, P. C. Canfield, R.
Prozorov, and L. Taillefer, Phys. Rev. B **82**, 064501 (2010). * (55)
S. L. Bud’ko, N. Ni, and P. C. Canfield, Phys. Rev. B **79**, 220516
(2009). * (56) G. Mu, J. Tang, Y. Tanabe, J. Xu, S. Heguri, and
K.Tanigaki, Phys. Rev. B **84**, 054505 (2011). * (57) J. S. Kim, B. D.
Faeth, Y. Wang, P. J. Hirschfeld, G. R. Stewart, K. Gofryk, F. Ronning,
A. S. Sefat, K. Y. Choi, and K. H. Kim, Phys. Rev. B **86**, 014513
(2012). * (58) J. S. Kim, B. D. Faeth, and G. R. Stewart, Phys. Rev. B
**86**, 054509 (2012). * (59) C. Martin, H. Kim, R. T. Gordon, N. Ni, V.
G. Kogan, S. L. Bud ko, P. C. Canfield, M. A. Tanatar, and R. Prozorov,
Phys. Rev. B **81**, 060505 (2010). * (60) H. Q. Yuan, J. Singleton, F.
F. Balakirev, S. A. Baily, G. F. Chen, J. L. Luo, and N. L. Wang, Nature
(London) **457**, 565 (2009). * (61) M. A. Tanatar, N. Ni, S. L. Bud’ko,
P. C. Canfield, and R. Prozorov, Supercond. Sci. Technol. **23**, 054002
(2010). * (62) N. Doiron-Leyraud, P. Auban-Senzier, S. Rene de Cotret,
C. Bourbonnais, D. Jerome, K. Bechgaard, and L. Taillefer, Phys. Rev. B
**80**, 214531 (2009). * (63) M. A. Tanatar, N. Ni, A. Thaler, S. L.
Bud’ko, P. C. Canfield, and R. Prozorov, Phys. Rev. B **82**, 134528
(2010). * (64) A. P. Mackenzie, S. R. Julian, G. G. Lonzarich, A.
Carrington, S. D. Hughes, R. S. Liu, and D. C. Sinclair, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **71**, 1238 (1993). * (65) V. G. Kogan, and R. Prozorov, Rep.
Prog. Phys. **75**, 114502 (2012). * (66) T. Terashima, M. Kimata, H.
Satsukawa, A. Harada, K. Hazama, S. Uji, H. Harima, G.-F. Chen, J.-L.
Luo, and N.-L. Wang, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **78**, 063702 (2009). * (67) L.
P. Gor’kov, Sov. Sci. Rev. A Phys. **9**, 1 (1987). * (68) M. Tinkham,
in _Introduction to Superconductivity_ (McGraw Hill, New York, 1996). *
(69) A. G. Lebed and O. Sepper, Pis’ma Zh. Eksp. Teor. Fiz. **96**, 189
(2012) [JETP Lett. **96**, 176 (2012)]. * (70) Y. Iye and S.-I. Tanuma,
Phys. Rev. B **25**, 4583 (1982). * (71) R. C. Morris, R. V. Coleman,
and R. Bhandari, Phys. Rev. B **5**, 895 (1972). * (72) A. K. Pradhan,
M. Tokunaga, Z. X. Shi, Y. Takano, K. Togano, H. Kito, H. Ihara, and T.
Tamegai, Phys. Rev. B **65**, 144513 (2002). * (73) J.-Ph. Reid, A.
Juneau-Fecteau, R. T. Gordon, S. Rene de Cotret, N. Doiron-Leyraud, X.
G. Luo, H. Shakeripour, J. Chang, M. A. Tanatar, H. Kim, R. Prozorov, T.
Saito, H. Fukazawa, Y. Kohori, K. Kihou, C. H. Lee, A. Iyo, H. Eisaki,
B. Shen, H.-H. Wen, and L. Taillefer, Supercond. Sci. Technol. **25**,
084013 (2012). * (74) J.-Ph. Reid, M. A. Tanatar, A. Juneau-Fecteau, R.
T. Gordon, S. R. de Cotret, N. Doiron-Leyraud, T. Saito, H. Fukazawa, Y.
Kohori, K. Kihou, C. H. Lee, A. Iyo, H. Eisaki, R. Prozorov, and L.
Taillefer, Phys. Rev. Lett. **109**, 087001 (2012).
