# Electron-phonon coupling in M_(n + 1)x_(n)-phase carbides

S. E. Lofland, J. D. Hettinger, T. Meehan, A. Bryan, and P. Finkel

Department of Physics and Astronomy, Rowan University, Glassboro, New
Jersey 08028, USA

S. Gupta and M. W. Barsoum

Department of Materials Science and Engineering, Drexel University,
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104, USA

G. Hug

LEM, ONERA-CNRS, Chatillon, France

###### Abstract

We have investigated the electrical resistivity, magnetotransport, and
heat capacity in several compounds of the type M_(n + 1)Ac_(n). The
temperature dependence of the electrical resistivity and the electronic
contribution to the heat capacity of this family of materials are
strongly influenced by electron-phonon coupling. We have extracted two
independent values for the electron-phonon coupling parameter λ from the
experimental data and find consistency between the two sets. We use λ to
predict the superconducting transition temperature T_(c) of these
materials. In agreement with those predictions, Nb₂AsC has a
superconducting transition near 2 K.

2006 10.1103/PhysRevB.74.174501 174501 10.1103/PhysRevB.74.174501
Compounds of the form M_(n + 1)AX_(n), where M is a transition metal, A
is an A-group element, and X is C or N (MAX phases), have been given
much recent interest due to their refractory properties.[1, 2, 3] Yet
they also have an unusual mixture of mechanical[4, 5] and electrical
properties[6, 7] that have implications for both application and pure
science. For one, some of these compounds show a nearly zero Seebeck
coefficient[6, 7] over a very large range of temperatures and some of
them are superconductors.[8] Their electronic properties, including
excellent conductivities, which are comparable to or higher than those
of the constituent transition metals, would not have been anticipated.
We have recently been able to synthesize many different MAX phases, and
we now have sufficient data for a systematic investigation of the
electronic properties. In what follows, we present a simple unified
picture to describe those properties.

Bulk polycrystalline samples of Hf₂InC,[9] Nb₂SnC,[10] and Nb₂AsC (Ref.
[11]) were made as described previously. V₂AsC was synthesized by the
same method as used for Nb₂AsC.[11] To prepare the Ti₂GeC sample,
stoichiometric amounts of Ti (99.5

Heat capacity, magnetotransport, and ac susceptibility measurements were
performed with a quantum Design Physical Properties Measurement System.
Heat capacity data were taken in the temperature range 2−300 K.
Magnetotransport measurements were carried out over the temperature
range 5−300 K in magnetic fields up to 9 T with a four-probe
configuration described previously[7] with currents up to 100 mA for
samples of average dimensions of 1× 2× 15 mm³. ac susceptibility was
measured between 2 and 10 K for amplitudes of 1 Oe at a frequency of 1
kHz.

We calculated the density of states at the Fermi level N(E_(F)) using
the procedure outlined in Ref. [12]. Briefly, the ground states were
calculated in the framework of the full potential augmented plane wave
method using the wien2k code. We performed a full optimization of all
the free parameters of the space group, i.e., unit cell volume, c/a, and
z_(M), the vertical position of the transition metal. More specifically,
we first searched for a minimum of the total energy with respect to the
volume. Then keeping the latter constant, we searched for a minimum of
the total energy by varying the c/a ratio. A similar procedure is then
reapplied to optimize z_(M). The whole process was then iterated until
the total energy was minimized with respect to all three parameters
simultaneously. Typically three iterations were sufficient to complete
the process.

The electrical transport data for Hf₂InC are shown in Fig. 1(a). The
inset of Fig. 1(a) shows the measured voltage as a function of magnetic
field which can be separated into terms add and even upon magnetic field
reversal. Data for Ti₂GeC, V₂AsC, and Nb₂SnC were similar and are not
shown; however, the temperature dependence of the resistivity ρ of
Nb₂AsC is shown in Fig. 1(b) where there was the onset of
superconductivity at 10 K. This transition was found to be quite broad
and was incomplete down to 2 K, and there was no anomaly in the heat
capacity (Fig. 2) above 2 K. However, the apparent diamagnetic response
observed in the ac susceptibility (Fig. 2, inset) suggested that there
may be a superconducting transition with an onset near 2 K.

The temperature dependent resistivity of a metal near room temperature
is primarily a result of charge carrier-phonon interactions. However,
the measured resistivity value is not the intrinsic resistivity at a
given temperature but instead depends on varying defect density, phase
purity, and microstructure. The residual resistivity ρ₀, measured at 5
K, can be subtracted from the overall resistivity to allow an estimate
of the intrinsic room temperature resistivity, ρ_(in), assuming
Matthiessen’s rule applies (where we assume ρ₀ is roughly constant as a
function of temperature). The magne totransport data were analyzed to
determine the Hall coefficient and magnetoresistance values which were
then used [13, 14] to calculate the electron carrier density n in a
two-band model. The n values were effectively identical to the hole
concentration. These results are summarized in Table 1.

Specific heat c_(p) data were analyzed in the usual fashion with the
expression

$$\frac{c_{p}}{T}=\gamma+\beta T^{2},$$
(1)

where γ and β are the electronic and phonon contributions, respectively,
to the low-temperature specific heat. The Debye temperature θ_(D) can be
determined from the phonon contribution to the specific heat via

$$\theta_{D}^{\lambda}=\frac{12\pi^{4}Rx}{5\beta},$$
(2)

where x is the number of atoms per unit cell and R the universal gas
constant. The measured values for θ_(D), γ, and n averaged over all
reported values as well as the average reported band structure
electronic density of states $N_{\rm bs}(E_{F})$ are also listed in
Table 1.

From these results, we can extract the electron-phonon coupling constant
λ. To do this, we follow work done in the 1960s and 1970s to determine λ
in pure transition metals and their alloys to predict their
superconducting critical temperature T_(c). McMillan [28] and Hopfield
[29] factorized λ with

$$\lambda=\frac{\eta}{M\langle\omega^{2}\rangle},$$
(3)

where η is the McMillan-Hopfield electron-phonon parameter, M the atomic
mass, and ⟨ω²⟩ the average of the squared phonon frequencies. λ can be
determined by comparing $N_{\rm bs}(E_{F})$ to the measured value of
γ[28], which has been renormalized from the free-electron value by the
electron-phonon interaction:

$$N_{\rm bs}(E_{F})=\left(\frac{1}{1+\lambda}\right)\frac{3\gamma}{2\pi^{2}k_{B }^{2}}.$$
(4)

These values for the electron-phonon coupling factor determined from
heat capacity measurements λ_(cp) are listed in the first column of
Table 2. From the scatter in the measured γ values and calculated
$N_{\rm bs}(E_{F})$ values, the estimated error in λ_(cp) is around 15

Later Kulikov [30] showed that the phonon-limited resistivity of
transition metals can be considered as the product of

Figure 2: Temperature dependence of heat capacity of Nb₂AsC. There is no
anomaly in the 2–10 K. The inset shows the ac susceptibility, suggesting
that the true onset of superconductivity takes place just below 2 K.

Figure 1: (a) Temperature dependence of resistivity of Hf₂InC. The inset
shows the field dependence from which the magnetoresistance and Hall
coefficient were calculated, yielding a Hall value of 2.8 × 10⁻¹⁰ m³/C
at 5 K. (b) Temperature dependence of resistivity of Nb₂AsC, which shows
the onset of a superconducting transition.

two factors, one related to the phonon spectrum and the other related to
the electronic structure. Within that framework, ρ can be written as

$$\rho = \frac{\pi}{3}\frac{N(E_{F})}{nM}\eta\frac{1}{k_{B}\theta_{D}}\bigg{(}\frac{T}{\theta_{D}}\bigg{)}^{5}J_{5}(\theta_{D}/T),$$

where

$$J_{5}(\theta_{D}/T) = \int_{0}^{\theta_{D}/T}\frac{z^{5}dz}{(e^{z}-1)(1-e^{-z})}.$$

This model yields the same functional temperature dependence of the
resistivity as the Bloch-Gruneisen model appropriate to alkali metals.
Assuming that λ can be factorized and that η and ⟨Mω²⟩ can be averaged
over the constituent elements as has been done in binary compounds,[31]
one can calculate λ from ρ, using ⟨ω²⟩ ≈ θ_(D)²/2. These values for the
electron-phonon coupling λ_(p) are listed in the second column of Table
2. From the error in determining n and the range of values found for
θ_(D), the estimated error in λ_(p) is roughly 25

The two λ values in Table 2 agree reasonably well. The differences
between the two columns are comparable to the differences between the λ
values determined from experimental numbers by McMillan[28] and
self-consistent band-structure calculations by Papaconstantopoulos _et
al.[32]_ on transition metals. In spite of the fact that the _MAX_ phase
materials are layered hexagonal structures (not cubicity) and that there
are several low-lying optical phonons,[33, 34] the agreement is
remarkable. Typically one would expect in this case that θ_(D)² is a
poor approximation to ⟨ω²⟩. However, in spite of the anisotropic
structure, the electrical transport properties are found to be
surprisingly isotropic,[35] allowing the use of this simple
approximation. Since λ_(p) directly depends on n, the agreement between
values λ_(cp) confirms that the carrier concentration values are also
reasonable.

For comparison, Hailov _et al.[26]_ have calculated η for Nb₂AsC and
V₂AsC, yielding values of 4.0 and 4.4 eV/A

  ---------- -------- -------
   Compound   λ_(cp)   λ_(p)
    Ti₂AlC     0.47    0.39
   Ti₃AlC₂     0.11    0.61
   Ti₃SiC₂     0.14    0.94
    Ti₂GeC     0.14    0.48
   Ti₃GeC₂     0.23    0.22
    V₂AlC      0.41    0.49
    V₂AsC      1.2     0.58
    Cr₂AlC     1.2     0.62
    Nb₂AlC     0.33    0.46
    Nb₂SnC     0.31    0.22
    Nb₂AsC     0.33    0.34
    Hf₂InC     0.45    0.14
  ---------- -------- -------

Table 2: Values of the electron-phonon coupling constant determined from
heat capacity λ_(cp) and resistivity λ_(p) for several _MAX_ phase
materials.

c c c c c c & Debye temperature & Average electronic heat capacity
contribution & Average calculated density of states (states/eV unit
cell) & Intrinsic room temperature resistivity (10⁻⁸Ω m) & Electron
carrier density (10²⁷/m³)
Compound & (K) & γ (mJ/mol K²) & & 3.15,d & 28e & 1.0e
Ti₃AlC₂ & 760f & 4.5f & 3.4g,h & 18f & 1.1f
Ti₃SiC₂ & 715f & 6.3f,j,k & 4.7g,h & 21m & 2.3m
Ti₂GeC & 625m & 4.8n & 3.6o & 30n & 1.3n
Ti₃GeC₂ & 670m & 6.4m,p & 4.5h & 21m & 1.4m
V₂AlC & 658a & 9.1a,b & 5.5a,c & 20e & 2.7e
V₂AsC & 444a & 11.7a & 4.5a,n & 65a & 1.9a
Cr₂AlC & 673a & 16.2a,b & 6.2a,c & 60e & 1.2e
Nb₂AlC & 540a & 6.0a & 3.8a & 20e & 2.7e
Nb₂SnC & 380a & 5.7a & 3.7a & 30n & 1.8a
Nb₂AsC & 520a & 4.7a & 3.0a,g & 120a & 0.6a
Hf₂InC & 330a & 3.4a & 2.0n & 35a & 0.7a

Table 1: Electronic parameters of MAX phase materials.

per unit cell, respectively, from band-structure calculations and the
Gaspari-Gyorffy theory. Using the same approximations as above, one
finds λ values of 0.031 and 0.067 for Nb₂AsC and V₂AsC, respectively.
Clearly, these theoretical values are too small to account for either
the experimental results on heat capacity or the resistivity. However,
this may be related to the aforementioned limitations in the
approximations used to estimate λ.

As suggested by Dynes and Varma for transition metals,[36] the
relationship between the average λ values as a function of N_(bs)(E_(F))
should be roughly linear, as observed (Fig. 3). The majority of the
differences in the electrical transport of these materials appears to be
a result of the variation in θ_(D) and N_(bs)(E_(F)), the former of
which depends primarily on the mass of the M and A ions[33] while the
latter is mostly a function of the transition metal ion only.[15]

From λ, one can use the McMillan formula[16] to calculate T_(c):

$$T_{c}=\frac{\theta_{D}}{1.45}\exp\left[-\frac{1.04(1+\lambda)}{\lambda-\mu^{*} (1+0.62\lambda)}\right],$$
(7)

where μ^(*) is the Coulomb pseudopotential. Bennemann and Garland[37]
found an empirical relation for μ^(*):

$$\mu^{*}=0.26\frac{N_{\text{bs}}(E_{F})}{1+N_{\text{bs}}(E_{F})},$$
(8)

where N_(bs)(E_(F)) is expressed in states/eV atom. The calculated
values of T_(c) are, for the most part, less than 1 K, as observed,
which is not surprising given that most of the compounds studied here
have 4.5 electrons/atom or less, whereas maxima in T_(c) should occur at
4.7 and 6.5 electrons/atom according to the Matthias’ rules.[38] In
fact, with the notable exception of Nb₃SC,[8] which has an electron
count of 5.0/atom, the known T_(c)s of all MAX phases are less than 2 K.
On the other hand, the rather large λ value for Cr₂AlC and V₂AsC with
electron counts of 4.75/atom would suggest a larger T_(c) value, which
is not observed. However, Schneider _et al.[39]_ have calculated the
energies of the magnetic states of Cr₂AlC and found that there was
little difference between that of the paramagnetic and antiferromagnetic
states. Spin fluctuations may lead to an enhanced λ value as well as the
suppression of superconductivity.

In conclusion, we have investigated the electronic properties of a large
set of MAX phase materials. The electron carrier concentrations are in
the range of 1−2×10²⁷/m³. The electrical resistivity, heat capacity, γ,
and the superconducting properties can be adequately described by
electron-phonon coupling. The λ values determined from two independent
methods are reasonably consistent.

This work was supported by the NSF Grant No. DMR 0503711.

## References

* [1] D. Chen, K. Shirato, M. W. Barsoum, T. El-Raghy, and R. O.
Ritchie, J. Am. Ceram. Soc. **84**, 2914 (2001). * [2] M. W. Barsoum, C.
J. Rawn, T. El-Raghy, A. T. Procopio, W. D. Porter, H. Wang, and C. R.
Hubbard, J. Appl. Phys. **83**, 825 (2000). * [3] M. W. Barsoum, D.
Brodkin, and T. El-Raghy, Scr. Mater. **36**, 535 (1997). * [4] M. W.
Barsoum, M. Radovic, T. Zhen, P. Finkel, and S. R. Kalidindi, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **94**, 085501 (2005). * [5] M. W. Barsoum, A. Murugaiah, S. R.
Kalidindi, and T. Zhen, Phys. Rev. Lett. **92**, 255508 (2004). * [6] H.
I. Yoo, M. W. Barsoum, and T. El-Raghy, Nature (London) **407**, 581
(2000). * [7] P. Finkel, J. D. Hettinger, S. E. Lofland, M. W. Barsoum,
and T. El-Raghy, Phys. Rev. B **65**, 035113 (2001). * [8] K. Sakamaki,
H. Wada, H. Nozaki, Y. Onuki, and M. Kawai, Solid State Commun. **112**,
323 (1999). * [9] M. W. Barsoum, J. Golczewski, H. J. Siefert, and F.
Aldinger, J. Alloys Compd. **340**, 173 (2002). * [10] T. El-Raghy, S.
Chakraborty, and M. W. Barsoum, J. Eur. Ceram. Soc. **20**, 2619
(2000). * [11] R. S. Kumar, S. Rekhti, A. L. Cornelius, and M. W.
Barsoum, Appl. Phys. Lett. **86**, 111904 (2005). * [12] G. Hug and E.
Fries, Phys. Rev. B **65**, 113104 (2002). * [13] P. Finkel, B. Seaman,
K. Harrell, J. Palma, J. D. Hettinger, S. E. Lofland, A. Ganguly, M. W.
Barsoum, Z. Sun, Sa Li, and R. Ahuja, Phys. Rev. B **70**, 085104
(2004). * [14] J. D. Hettinger, S. E. Lofland, P. Finkel, T. Meehan, J.
Palma, K. Harrell, S. Gupta, A. Ganguly, T. El-Raghy, and M. W. Barsoum,
Phys. Rev. B **72**, 115120 (2005). * [15] S. E. Lofland, J. D.
Hettinger, K. Harrell, P. Finkel, S. Gupta, M. W. Barsoum, and G. Hug,
Appl. Phys. Lett. **84**, 508 (2004).

Figure 3: Electron-phonon coupling as a function of the normalized
density of states. The line is a guide to the eye.

* [16] M. K. Drulis, H. Drulis, S. Gupta, and M. W. Barsoum
(unpublished). * [17] Z. Sun, R. Ahuja, S. Li, and J. M. Schneider,
Appl. Phys. Lett. **83**, 899 (2003). * [18] J. C. Ho, H. H. Hamdeh, M.
W. Barsoum, and T. El-Raghy, J. Appl. Phys. **86**, 3609 (1999). * [19]
A. Ivanovskii and A. Medvedeva, Mendeleev Commun. **1**, 36 (1999). *
[20] Y. C. Zhou, Z. Sun, X. Wang, and S. Chen, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter
**13**, 10001 (2001). * [21] J. C. Ho, H. H. Hamdeh, M. W. Barsoum, and
T. El-Raghy, J. Appl. Phys. **85**, 7970 (1999). * [22] M. K. Drulis, A.
Czopnik, H. Drulis, and M. W. Barsoum, J. Appl. Phys. **95**, 128
(2004). * [23] N. I. Medvedeva, D. L. Novikov, A. L. Ivanovsky, M. V.
Kuznetsov, and A. J. Freeman, Phys. Rev. B **58**, 16042 (1998). * [24]
Y. C. Zhou, H. Y. Dong, X. H. Wang, and S. Q. Chen, J. Phys.: Condens.
Matter **12**, 9617 (2000). * [25] M. K. Drulis, A. Czopnik, H. Drulis,
J. E. Spanier, A. Ganguly, and M. W. Barsoum, Mater. Sci. Eng., B
**119**, 159 (2005). * [26] S. V. Halilov, D. J. Singh, and D. A.
Papaconstantopoulos, Phys. Rev. B **65**, 174519 (2002). * [27] P.
Finkel, M. W. Barsoum, J. D. Hettinger, S. E Lofland, and H. I. Yoo,
Phys. Rev. B **67**, 235108 (2003). * [28] W. L. McMillan, Phys. Rev.
**167**, 331 (1967). * [29] J. J. Hopfield, Phys. Rev. **186**, 443
(1969). * [30] N. I. Kulikov, J. Phys. F: Met. Phys. **8**, L137
(1978). * [31] I. R. Gomersall and B. L. Gyorffy, J. Phys. F: Met. Phys.
**3**, L138 (1973). * [32] D. A. Papaconstantopoulos, L. L. Boyer, B. M.
Klein, A. R. Williams, V. L. Morruzzi, and J. F. Janak, Phys. Rev. B
**15**, 4221 (1977). * [33] M. Amer, M. W. Barsoum, T. El-Raghy, I.
Wiess, S. LeClair, and D. Liptak, J. Appl. Phys. **84**, 5817 (1998). *
[34] J. E. Spanier, S. Gupta, M. Amer, and M. W. Barsoum, Phys. Rev. B
**71**, 012103 (2005). * [35] T. Meehan and J. D. Hettinger
(unpublished). * [36] R. C. Dynes and C. M. Varma, J. Phys. F: Met.
Phys. **6**, L215 (1976). * [37] K. H. Benneman and J. W. Garland,
_Superconductivity of d and f band metals_, edited D. H. Douglas, AIP
Conf. Proc. No. 4 (AIP, NY, 1972), p. 103. * [38] B. T. Matthias, in
_Progress of Low Temperature Physics_, edited by C. J. Gorter
(North-Holland, Amsterdam, 1957), Vol. 2. * [39] J. M. Schneider, Z.
Sun, R. Mertens, F. Uestel, and R. Ahuja, Solid State Commun. **130**,
445 (2004).
