# Transport properties of the heavy-fermion superconductor PrOs4Sb12

H. Sugawara,* M. Kobayashi, S. Osaki, S. R. Saha, T. Namiki, Y. Aoki,
and H. Sato

Graduate School of Science, Tokyo Metropolitan University,
Minami-Ohsawa, Hachioji, Tokyo 192-0397, Japan

Received 4 January 2005; revised manuscript received 5 April 2005;
published 13 July 2005

###### Abstract

We have measured the electrical resistivity, thermoelectric power, Hall
coefficient, and magnetoresistance (MR) on single crystals of PrOs4Sb12,
LaOs4Sb12, and NdOs4Sb12. All the transport properties in PrOs4Sb12 are
similar to those in LaOs4Sb12 and NdOs4Sb12 at high temperatures,
indicating the localized character of 4f electrons. The transverse MR
both in LaOs4Sb12 and PrOs4Sb12 tends to saturate for wide field
directions, indicating these compounds to be uncompensated metals with
no open orbit. We have determined the phase diagram of the field induced
ordered phase by the MR measurement for all the principle field
directions, which indicates an unambiguous evidence for the Γ₁ singlet
crystalline electric field ground state.

pacs: DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.72.014519 PACS number(s): 71.27.+a,
72.15.-v, 72.15.Gd, 72.15.Qm + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL REVIEW B
**72**, 014519 (2005)

## I Introduction

PrOs4Sb12 with the filled skutterudite structure ($Im\bar{3}$) was
reported to be the first Pr-based heavy-fermion (HF) superconductor.[1,
2] The heavy mass has been suggested by the large specific-heat jump
$\Delta C/T_{\rm c}\!\sim\!500$ mJ/K² mol at the superconducting (SC)
critical temperature $T_{\rm c}$=1.85 K, and directly confirmed by the
de Haas-van Alphen (dHvA) experiments.[3] From the various microscopic
measurements; i.e., Sb-nuclear quadrupole resonance (NQR) and muon spin
relaxation (μSR), etc.,[4, 5, 6] this material has been recognized as an
unconventional superconductor which differs from Ce- and U-based HF
superconductors reported to date. Specific heat and magnetic
susceptibility measurements in PrOs4Sb12 indicate the nonmagnetic
crystal electric field (CEF) ground state of Pr3+ ions,[1, 2, 8, 9, 10,
11, 12, 13] which is a sharp contrast with the existing HF
superconductors; the existing HF superconductor has magnetic ground
state and the magnetic fluctuation is believed to mediate the
superconducting pairing. The unconventional nature of this material is
also inferred from the unusual SC multiple phase diagram evidenced by
the double SC transitions in the specific heat and also by the thermal
conductivity measurements which indicates anisotropic SC gap.[2, 11, 12,
13] Recent zero-field μSR measurements have revealed the appearance of
spontaneous internal fields below $T_{\rm c}$, providing an evidence for
the breaking of time reversal symmetry in the SC state.[6] As another
interesting feature of this material, an anomalous field-induced ordered
phase (FIOP) was first observed in the magnetoresistance (MR)
measurement[14] and confirmed by the specific-heat measurement under
magnetic fields.[7] Recent neutron-diffraction experiments has suggested
this ordered phase to be an antiferroquadrupolar (AFQ) ordering.[15] For
better understanding of this exotic SC state, it is quite important to
clarify the nature of the field-induced ordered state.

The exotic superconducting properties of PrOs4Sb12 have promoted intense
research activities based on various experimental techniques mentioned
above. In contrast, the physical properties of the reference compounds
LaOs4Sb12 and NdOs4Sb12 have been only poorly investigated despite its
importance for understanding the unusual properties of PrOs4Sb12. For
the transport properties of PrOs4Sb12, the reported data until now have
been limited mostly to the electrical resistivity ρ(T) and MR.[2, 14,
16, 17, 18] Ho _et al._ have reported the MR and an anomaly related to
FIOP in PrOs4Sb12,[14, 17, 18] although their measurement is limited
only on MR without any description on the angular dependence. Frederick
and Maple analyzed their ρ(T) and MR data based on the CEF theory and
suggested that the CEF ground state to be Γ₃ (Γ₂₃ in $T_{\rm h}$
notation[19]) doublet.[20] Their interpretation of CEF as an origin of
both the decrease (or roll-off) in ρ(T) below 5 K and the FIOP may be
correct, however, recent experiments show inconsistency with the Γ₃
ground state model; the results of recent specific-heat, magnetization,
and neutron experiments,[7, 9, 10, 15, 21, 22] are well describable by
the Γ₁ singlet ground state model. Therefore, it is important to
investigate anisotropy of FIOP to settle the CEF ground state.

In this paper, we report the systematic study of transport measurements;
i.e., electrical resistivity ρ, thermoelectric power (TEP) S, and Hall
coefficient R_(H) in comparison with those on the reference compounds
LaOs4Sb12 and NdOs4Sb12. We have also measured the MR for the magnetic
fields along all the principle crystalline directions to investigate the
anomalous FIOP.

## II Experimental

High-quality single crystals of ROs4Sb12 [R (rare earth): La, Pr, and
Nd] were grown by Sb-self-flux method starting from a composition
R:Os:Sb=1 : 4 : 20,[23, 24] using high-purity raw materials 4N (99.99

ρ and R_(H) were measured by the ordinary four-probe dc method. S was
measured by the differential method using Au-0.07

## III Results and discussion

### Electrical resistivity

Figure 1 shows the temperature dependence of electrical resistivity ρ(T)
normalized at 280 K for ROs₄Sb₁₂ (R: La, Pr, and Nd).[26]ρ(T) for
POs₄Sb₁₂ is qualitatively the same as the previous reports.[1, 2] The
similar metallic behavior of ρ(T) for these compounds above ∼10 K
suggests a localized nature of 4f electrons in ROs₄Sb₁₂ (R; Pr and Nd).
As shown in the inset of Fig. 1, we have found the superconductivity in
LaOs₄Sb₁₂ below 0.74 K, which was also confirmed by the NQR and
specific-heat measurements.[4, 27] It should be noted that the
$T_{\rm C}$ of PrOs₄Sb₁₂ is higher than that of LaOs₄Sb₁₂. That is
unusual, since PrOs₄Sb₁₂ contains Pr ions with 4f electrons. Actually,
for the ordinary Pr-based filled skutterudite superconductor
PrRu₄Sb₁₂($T_{\rm C}$∼ 1 K), $T_{\rm C}$ is lower than that for
LaRu₄Sb₁₂ ($T_{\rm C}$∼ 3.5 K).[28, 29]

Figure 2 shows the SC H-T phase diagram for LaOs₄Sb₁₂ determined by the
field dependence of electrical resistivity at selected temperatures and
the temperature dependence of ac susceptibility $\chi_{\rm ac}$ under
selected magnetic fields. Maple _et al._ also reported the
superconductivity of LaOs₄Sb₁₂,[17] although T_(C)∼ 1 K is slightly
higher and H_(C2)∼ 0.6 T is more than an order of magnitude larger than
that of our results in their experiment. At the present stage, we do not
know the origin of such a large discrepancy, though we can say that the
sample dependence is not so large within the samples we have grown; we
have confirmed the almost the same value of T_(C) and H_(C2) for
different several samples and also by different measurements (i.e., ρ,
$\chi_{\rm ac}$, NQR, and specific-heat measurement). From the slope of
the upper critical field H_(C2) near T_(C)(−dH_(C2)/dT)_(T_(C))= 0.068
T/K, the critical field at 0 K H_(C2)(0) and coherence length ξ₀ are
obtained following Ref. 1, which are summarized in Table I compared with
PrOs₄Sb₁₂. The rapid decrease in ρ(T) for NdOs₄Sb₁₂ below ∼0.8 K as
shown in the inset of Fig. 1 might indicate a ferromagnetic transition,
since it shifts to higher temperatures with increasing magnetic field.

### Thermoelectric power

Figure 3 shows the temperature dependence of TEP S(T) for ROs₄Sb₁₂ (R:
La, Pr, and Nd). The TEPs of all the compounds are not describable only
by a simple combination of the diffusion and the phonon drag TEP. For
LaOs₄Sb₁₂, the TEP shows a broad negative peak near 80 K, for which
there are two possible explanations. The peak temperature is not so far
from Θ_(D)/5(∼60 K) expected for the phonon drag peak (one fifths of the
Debye temperature Θ_(D)), taking into account the reported value of
Θ_(D)=304 K.[24] However, PrOs₄Sb₁₂

                        LaOs₄Sb₁₂   PrOs₄Sb₁₂
  -------------------- ----------- -----------
  $T_{\rm C}$(K)          0.74a       1.85b
  $H_{\rm C2}$(0)(T)     0.035a       2.45b
  ξ₀(Å)                   970a        116b
  λ(Å)                    4700d       3440c
  κ=λ/ξ₀                   4.8         30

Table 1: Comparison of the superconducting critical temperature
$T_{\rm C}$, upper critical field $H_{\rm C2}$(0), coherence length ξ₀,
penetration depth λ, and Ginzburg-Landau parameter κ between LaOs₄Sb₁₂
and PrOs₄Sb₁₂.

Figure 3: Temperature dependence of the thermoelectric power in ROs₄Sb₁₂
(R: La, Pr, and Nd).

Figure 2: Superconducting phase diagram in LaOs₄Sb₁₂, determined by the
field dependence of electrical resistivity and ac susceptibility. The
dotted line is guide for eyes.

does not show such a structure though it has almost the same Debye
temperature, that in turn suggests the phone drag is not the main
contribution for such a low-temperature structure in LaOs₄Sb₁₂. Another
possible origin is some fine structure in the density of states N(ε)
near the Fermi level ε_(F), since the diffusion memoelectric power can
be represented as −(π²k_(B)²T/3ε|)[(dN(ε)/de)_(ε_(F)) in the simplest
free electron model.[30] According to the band structure
calculations,[31]ε_(F) is located in between a large peak and a small
peak in the density of states; the energy difference between these two
peaks is ΔE/k_(B)∼ 100 K. At low temperature, the positive slope of N(ε)
at ε_(F) leads to the negative S(T). With increasing temperature, the
small peak structure becomes thermally smeared, and the averaged slope
of N(ε) near ε_(F) becomes negative, reading to the positive S(T) at
high temperature. Such temperature dependence of averaged slope of N(ε)
may be an origin of the low-temperature structure of TEP in ROs₄Sb₁₂.
The slope of S(T) at higher temperatures is not much different among the
three compounds, indicating basically the same electronic structure. The
slope dS/dT∼ 0.14 μV/K² is an order of magnitude large compared to
ordinary sp metals and is similar to 3d-transition metals such as Ni,
Pd, and Pt,[32] that is consistent with the large electronic density of
states at Fermi level predicted by the band structure calculation.[33,
31]

### Hall coefficient

Figure 4 shows the temperature dependence of Hall coefficient R_(H)(T)
for ROs₄Sb₁₂ (R: La, Pr, and Nd). The Hall coefficient is almost
temperature independent at high temperatures irrespective of R. The
absolute value is also not much different among the three compounds,
taking into account relatively large error in the geometrical
determination. The carrier number at higher temperatures for PrOs₄Sb₁₂
is n=2.1×10²⁷/m³ (0.85 holes/molecular unit) assuming a single carrier
model. That is consistent with the result of dHvA experiments,[3] which
is well explained by the band structure calculation predicting two
pieces of holelike Fermi surfaces (FS) and a multiply connected one; the
number of holes within the two hole-like surfaces gives n=1.1 × 10²⁷/m³.
The weak temperature dependence below ∼150 K could be ascribed to the
temperature dependent anisotropy of relaxation time,[34] which is not
unusual as was observed even in simple metals such as Al and Pb.[35] For
LaOs₄Sb₁₂, the decrease down to 40 K is ascribed to the change in the
main scattering centers from the isotropic phonon scattering with large
wave vectors **q** to the anisotropic phonon scattering with smaller
**q**, and the increase below ∼40 K reflects the recovery to the
isotropic scattering by impurities. The rapid changes both in PrOs₄Sb₁₂
and NdOs₄Sb₁₂ at low temperature are ascribed to the superconducting and
ferromagnetic transition, respectively.

On ρ(T), S(T), and R_(H)(T) in PrOs₄Sb₁₂, qualitative comparison to
those in PrFe₄P₁₂ might be of interest, since both compounds exhibit HF
behaviors which are very rare as Pr-based compounds. Among Ce-based
dense Kondo compounds, −ln T dependence in ρ(T), a large positive peak
in S(T), anomalous Hall effect in R_(H)(T) are well known as common
features associated with the Kondo scattering (cooperated with the
crystal field). For PrFe₄P₁₂, an apparent −ln T dependence in ρ(T), huge
negative TEP peak (∼70 μV/K), and the skew scattering in R_(H)(T) have
been found above the AFQ transition temperature,[33] which are thought
to be supportive evidences of an intense Kondo effect. In contrast, no
such drastic features appear in PrOs₄Sb₁₂ indicative well localized
nature of 4f electrons. For PrFe₄P₁₂ with the smaller lattice constant
(≈7.8 A), the stronger c-f hybridization is expected. On the other hand,
for PrOs₄Sb₁₂ with larger lattice constant (≈9.3 A), the c-f
hybridization is expected to be weaker. The difference of c-f
hybridization strength might be the origin of large differences of
transport properties between these two compounds.

### Magnetoresistance

Figure 5 shows the comparison of the field dependence of MR between the
transverse (ρ_(⊥)) and longitudinal ($\rho_{\rm r}$) geometry in
PrOs₄Sb₁₂. The difference between the two geometries
Δρ=$\rho_{\perp}-\rho_{\rm r}$ is positive and could be mainly ascribed
to the ordinary Lorentz MR contribution. Figures 6 and 7 show the
angular and field dependences of transverse MR for the field along
principal crystallographic directions in PrOs₄Sb₁₂ and LaOs₄Sb₁₂,
respectively, where θ both in the insets of Figs. 6 and 7 represents to
the field angle from the [001] direction. As shown in Fig. 5, Δρ shows a
saturating tendency with increasing field. Combined with the small
angular dependence in the inset of Fig. 6, PrOs₄Sb₁₂ is judged to

Figure 4: Temperature dependence of the Hall coefficient in ROs₄Sb₁₂ (R:
La, Pr, and Nd).

Figure 5: Comparison of the field dependence of magnetoresistance both
for the transverse (ρ_(⊥)) and longitudinal ($\rho_{\rm r}$) geometry in
PrOs₄Sb₁₂.

be an uncompensated metal with no open orbit. That is also confirmed in
LaOs₄Sb₁₂ as shown in Fig. 7, whose FS topology is almost the same as
that in PrOs₄Sb₁₂.[3] The difference in angular dependence between those
insets of Figs. 6 and 7 may be ascribed to 4f contribution in PrOs₄Sb₁₂
where the larger residual resistivity suppresses the ordinary MR
contribution compared to LaOs₄Sb₁₂.

As shown in Fig. 5, for both the transverse and longitudinal geometries
in PrOs₄Sb₁₂, there exists positive contribution due to the scattering
with magnetic and/or orbital degree of freedom, which is dominating in
the field induced ordered phase inferred from the two anomalies H_(A)
and H_(A)^(′), indicated by the arrows. Important finding in this
experiments is the existence of the anomaly in MR indicating the phase
boundary of the FIOP for all the principal field directions as shown in
Fig. 6. The result for H[[100]] agrees with that reported by Ho _et al._
except the absolute value of the resistivity.[18] The domelike structure
between H_(A) and H_(A)^(′) has been explained by Frederick and Maple as
due to the conduction electron scattering associated with the CEF
excitation.[20] Taking into account the fact that the magnetic moment of
Pr is enhanced in the FIOP,[15] the resistivity increase in the FIOP
could be most naturally ascribed to the enhancement of electron
scattering associated with the CEF excitation. The first CEF excited
state is reported to locate above Δ₁/k_(B)∼ 8 K both in Γ₃ and Γ₁
ground-state models.[1, 7, 10, 15] which naturally explains the gradual
decrease of ρ(T) below ∼ 5 K under 0 T as shown in the inset of Fig. 1.
At low temperatures far below Δ₁/k_(B), the electron scattering
associated with CEF excitation is suppressed in zero field. For the Γ₁
ground state model,[7, 10, 15] with increasing field, one out of Γ₅
(Γ₄⁽²⁾ in T_(b) notation[19]) triplet excited state comes down close to
the ground state, resulting in enhancement of electrical resistivity
associated with CEF excitation. After showing a maximum at a crossing
field ∼9 T of the two levels, the electrical resistivity decreases with
increasing gap between the two levels. The closeness of the two levels
is thought to be a key factor to stabilize the FIOP.[15] It should be
noted that the level crossing is expected for field along the all
principal crystallographic directions in the Γ₁ ground state model,[36,
37, 10] whereas no level crossing is expected for fields parallel to the
⟨110⟩ and ⟨111⟩ directions in the Γ₃ ground state model.[10] Thus the
present result indicates an unambiguous evidence for the Γ₁ CEF ground
state in PrOs₄Sb₁₂.

As Frederick and Maple discussed,[20] the domelike structure in ρ(H)
near 9 T at low temperatures may be ascribed to the CEF excitation. In
addition, we discuss here the origin of the sharp anomaly across the
phase boundary. One possiblity is the slight change of FS associated
with the superzone gap formation of new periodicity; namely, the AFQ
ordering as was clarified by the neutron-scattering experiment.[15]
Actually, as shown in Fig. 8, the field dependence of Hall resistivity
ρ_(H)(H) exhibits the slight slope changes across H_(A) and H_(A)^(′),
in contrast with the almost linear increase of ρ_(H)(H) in LaOs₄Sb₁₂.
Also in the dHvA experiments,[3] the frequency of the β branch
originating from the 48th hole FS has been confirmed to exhibit slight
changes across H_(A) and H_(A)^(′). However, it could not be a decisive
evidence for the FS change because the magnetization also changes
nonlinearly at H_(A) as shown in the inset of Fig. 8,[9, 10] leading to
a superficial change in FS. Such a slight change of the dHvA frequency
can be also ascribed to the combined effect of the spin splitting and
nonlinear magnetization.[38] Thus, the change in FS across the FIOP
boundary has not been settled yet, however, taking into account the
normal Hall contribution is dominating in the Hall resistivity as shown
in Fig. 8; namely the Hall

Figure 8: Comparison of the field dependence of Hall resistivity between
PrOs₄Sb₁₂ and LaOs₄Sb₁₂. The inset shows the comparison of magnetization
curves between these two compounds.

Figure 6: Field dependences of the transverse magnetoresistance for
field along the all principal directions in PrOs₄Sb₁₂. The inset shows
the angular dependence of the transverse magnetoresistance.

Figure 7: Field dependences of the transverse magnetoresistance for
field along the [100] and [110] directions in LaOs₄Sb₁₂. The inset shows
the angular dependence of the transverse magnetoresistance.

resistivities of two compounds with the same sign and similar magnitude
naturally suggest the anomalous Hall effect[39] is not dominant in
PrOs₄Sb₁₂, the FS does not drastically change in FIOP, that is in
contrast with PrFe₄P₁₂ in which the apparent FS reconstruction has been
observed across the AFQ ordering.[38]

In order to determine the _H-T_ phase diagram for field along the three
principal field directions, we have measured ρ(T) for selected fields as
shown in Fig. 9. We have also measured ρ(T) for H∥[110] and H∥[111],
which are basically the same as that for H∥[100] except the difference
in transition temperature T_(A) as shown in the inset of Fig. 9(a). A
shoulder (or roll off) of ρ(T) around ∼5 K associated with the CEF
excitation is strongly suppressed by magnetic fields as shown in Fig.
9(a), suggesting the CEF excited state comes down approaching the ground
state. As shown in Figs. 9(b) and 9(c), above 6 T, we can see a bend
below T_(A) = 1.25 K, which is apparently related with FIOP. With
increasing magnetic fields, T_(A) increases and the bend becomes sharper
(i.e., at 8 and 10 T). After showing a maximum around 10 T, T_(A)
decreases rapidly and the anomaly disappears above 14 T. Figure 10 shows
the _H-T_ phase diagram determined by the present MR measurements along
with specific-heat and dHvA experiments. The similar phase diagram has
already reported by other groups,[17, 18, 40] however, there are no
description about the field anisotropy in their reports. In the
anisotropy determination of FIOP based on the magnetization
measurements,[10] the field range was limited to only below 13 T. In the
present MR measurements up to 16 T, the upper boundary H_(A)^(′) of FIOP
including the anisotropy has been determined for all the principal field
directions: H_(A)^(′) ∼ 14 T for H∥(100) and H_(A)^(′) ∼ 12 T for
H∥(110) and H∥(111). We again emphasize that the FIOP exists for the
field along all the three principal crystallographic directions. The
presence of AFQ phase close proximity to the superconducting phase
remind us the Ce- and U-based HF superconductors and high-T_(C) oxides;
in those systems the Cooper pairing is believed to be mediated by
magnetic fluctuations.[41] By analogy, in PrOs₄Sb₁₂, the quadrupole
fluctuations of Pr ions might play an important role in the HF-SC
properties.

## IV IV. Conclusions

All the transport properties of PrOs₄Sb₁₂, compared to those of the
references LaOs₄Sb₁₂ and NdOs₄Sb₁₂, suggest the 4f electrons to be well
localized at high temperatures, while the exotic behaviors associated
with 4f electrons degree of freedom are observed below the temperature
of order of CEF splitting between the ground state and the first excited
state.

From the field dependence of MR both for the transverse and longitudinal
geometry in PrOs₄Sb₁₂, we found that the ordinary MR contribution
saturates for all the field directions. This fact suggests that
PrOs₄Sb₁₂ is an uncompensated metal with no open orbit, which is
consistent with the band structure calculation.

The dependences of MR on both field and temperature have revealed that
the FIOP exists for the field along all the three principal
crystallographic directions between 4.4 and 14 T below 1.25 K, which
strongly supports the Γ₁ CEF ground-state model proposed based on the
specific heat, magnetization, and neutron-diffraction measurements.

## Acknowledgments

We thank Professor H. Harima, Professor M. B. Maple, and Professor K.
Miyake for helpful discussion. This work was supported by a Grant-in-Aid
for Scientific Research Priority Area "Skutterudite" (Grant No.
15072206) of the Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and
Technology, Japan.

Figure 9: Temperature dependence of the resistivity ρ(T) at selected
magnetic fields in PrOs₄Sb₁₂. The inset in (a) shows anisotropy of ρ(T)
at 8 T. (b) and (c) show ρ(T) below 8 T and above 10 T, respectively.
T_(A) represents to the transition temperature of FIOP.

* *Present address: Department of Mathematical and Natural Sciences,
Faculty of Integrated Arts and Sciences. The University of Tokushima,
Tokushima, 770-8502, Japan. E-mail: sugawara@ias.tokushima-u.ac.jp * [1]
E. D. Bauer, N. A. Frederick, P.-C. Ho, V. S. Zapf, and M. B. Maple,
Phys. Rev. B **65**, 100506(R) (2002). * [2] M. B. Maple, P.-C. Ho, V.
S. Zapf, N. A. Frederick, E. D. Bauer, W. M. Yuhasz, F. M. Woodward, and
J. W. Lynn, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **71**, 23 (2002). * [3] H. Sugawara, S.
Osaki, S. R. Saha, Y. Aoki, H. Sato, Y. Inada, H. Shishido, R. Settai,
Y. Onuki, H. Harima, and K. Oikawa, Phys. Rev. B **66**, 220504(R)
(2002). * [4] H. Kotegawa, M. Yogi, Y. Imamura, Y. Kawasaki, G.-q.
Zheng, Y. Kitaoka, S. Ohsaki, H. Sugawara, Y. Aoki, and H. Sato, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **90**, 027001 (2003). * [5] D. E. MacLaughlin, J. E. Sonier,
R. H. Heffner, O. O. Bernal, Ben-Li Young, M. S. Rose, G. D. Morris, E.
D. Bauer, T. D. Do, and M. B. Maple, Phys. Rev. Lett. **89**, 157001
(2002). * [6] Y. Aoki, A. Tsuchiya, T. Kanayama, S. R. Saha, H.
Sugawara, H. Sato, W. Higemoto, A. Koda, K. Ohishi, K. Nishiyama, and R.
Kadono, Phys. Rev. Lett. **91**, 067003 (2003). * [7] Y. Aoki, T.
Namiki, S. Osaki, S. R. Saha, H. Sugawara, and H. Sato, J. Phys. Soc.
Jpn. **71**, 2098 (2002). * [8] R. Vollmer, A. Faibt, C. Pfleiderer, H.
v. Lohneysen, E. D. Bauer, P.-C. Ho, V. Zapf, and M. B. Maple, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **90**, 057001 (2003). * [9] K. Tenya, N. Oeschler, P.
Gegenwart, F. Steglich, N. A. Frederick, E. D. Bauer, and M. B. Maple,
Acta Phys. Pol. B **34**, 995 (2003). * [10] T. Tayama, T. Sakakibara,
H. Sugawara, Y. Aoki, and H. Sato, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **72**, 1516
(2003). * [11] M.-A. Measson, D. Braithwaite, J. Flouquet, G. Seyfarth,
J. P. Brison, E. Lhotel, C. Paulsen, H. Sugawara, and H. Sato, Phys.
Rev. B **70**, 064516 (2004). * [12] K. Izawa, Y. Nakajima, J. Goryo, Y.
Matsuda, S. Osaki, H. Sugawara, H. Sato, P. Thalmeier, and K. Maki,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **90**, 117001 (2003). * [13] E. E. M. Chia, M. B.
Salamon, H. Sugawara, and H. Sato, Phys. Rev. Lett. **91**, 247003
(2003). * [14] P.-C. Ho, V. S. Zapf, E. D. Bauer, N. A. Frederick, M. B.
Maple, G. Giester, P. Rogl, St. Berger, Ch. Paul, and E. Bauer, in
_Physical Phenomena at High Magnetic Fields-IV_, edited by G. Boebinger,
Z. Fisk, L. P. Gorkov, A. Lacerda, and J. R. Schrieffer (World
Scientific, Singapore, 2001), pp. 98-103. * [15] M. Kohgi, K. Iwasa, M.
Nakajima, N. Metoki, S. Araki, N. Bernhoeft, J. M. Mignot, A. Gukasov,
H. Sato, Y. Aoki, and H. Sugawara, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **72** 1002
(2003). * [16] H. Sugawara, S. Osaki, E. Kuramochi, M. Kobayashi, S. R.
Saha, T. Namiki, Y. Aoki, and H. Sato, Physica B **329-333**, 551
(2003). * [17] M. B. Maple, P.-C. Ho, V. S. Zapf, N. A. Frederick, W. M.
Yuhasz, E. D. Bauer, A. D. Christianson, and A. H. Lacerda, J. Phys.:
Condens. Matter **15**, S2071 (2003). * [18] P.-C. Ho, N. A. Frederick,
V. S. Zapf, E. D. Bauer, T. D. Do, M. B. Maple, A. D. Christianson, and
A. H. Lacerda, Phys. Rev. B **67**, 180508(R) (2003). * [19] K.
Takegahara, H. Harima, and A. Harima, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **70**, 1190
(2001). * [20] N. A. Frederick and M. B. Maple, J. Phys.: Condens.
Matter **15**, 4789 (2003). * [21] K. Kuwahara, K. Iwasa, M. Kohgi, K.
Kaneko, S. Araki, N. Metoki, H. Sugawara, Y. Aoki, and H. Sato, J. Phys.
Soc. Jpn. **73**, 1438 (2004). * [22] E. A. Goremychkin, R. Osborn, E.
D. Bauer, M. B. Maple, N. A. Frederick, W. M. Yuhasz, F. M. Woodward,
and J. W. Lynn, Phys. Rev. Lett. **93** 157003 (2004). * [23] N. Takeda
and M. Ishikawa, Physica B **259-261**, 92 (1999). * [24] E. D. Bauer,
A. Slebarski, E. J. Freeman, C. Sirvent, and M. B. Maple, J. Phys.:
Condens. Matter **13**, 4495 (2001). * [25] D. J. Braun and W.
Jeitschko, J. Less-Common Met. **72**, 147 (1980). * [26] The absolute
values of the resistivity at room temperature are 290 μΩ cm for
LaOs₄Sb₁₂, 390 μΩ cm for PrOs₄Sb₁₂ (No. 1), 450 μΩ cm for PrOs₄Sb₁₂ (No.
2), and 250 μΩ cm for NdOs₄Sb₁₂, respectively, Such variation is
probably due to the irregular shapes and/or the presence of microcracks
in the samples. * [27] Y. Aoki, W. Higemoto, S. Sanada, K. Ohishi, S. R.
Saha, A. Koda, K. Nishiyama, R. Kadono, H. Sugawara, and H. Sato-Physica
B **895**, 359 (2005). * [28] N. Takeda and M. Ishikawa, J. Phys. Soc.
Jpn. **69**, 868 (2000). * [29] K. Abe, H. Sato, T. D. Matsuda, N.
Namiki, H. Sugawara, and Y. Aoki, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter **14**, 11
757 (2002). * [30] J. S. Dugdale, _The Electrical Properties of Metals
and Alloys_ (Arnold, London, 1977). * [31] H. Harima and K. Takegahara,
Physica C **388-389**, 555 (2003). * [32] See, for example, R. D.
Barnard, _Thermoelectricity in Metals and Alloys_ (Taylor & Francis,
London, 1972), p. 170. * [33] H. Sato, Y. Abe, H. Okada, T. D. Matsuda,
K. Abe, H. Sugawara, and Y. Aoki, Phys. Rev. B **62**, 15125 (2000). *
[34] M. Tsuji, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **13**, 979 (1958). * [35] H. Sato, H.
Okimoto, I. Sakamoto, and K. Yonemitsu, J. Phys. F: Met. Phys. **15**,
1555 (1985). * [36] R. Shiina and Y. Aoki, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **73**,
541 (2004). * [37] R. Shiina, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **73**, 2257 (2004). *
[38] H. Sugawara, T. D. Matsuda, K. Abe, Y. Aoki, H. Sato, S. Nojiri, Y.
Inada, R. Settai, and Y. Onuki, Phys. Rev. B **66**, 134411 (2002). *
[39] A. Fert and P. Levy, Phys. Rev. B **36**, 1907 (1987). * [40] N.
Oeschler, P. Gegenwart, F. Weickert, I. Zerec, P. Thalmeier, F.
Steglich, E. D. Bauer, N. A. Frederick, and M. B. Maple, Phys. Rev. B
**69**, 235108 (2004). * [41] N. D. Mathur, F. M. Grosche, S. R. Julian,
I. R. Walker, D. M. Freye, R. K. W. Haselwimmer, and G. G. Lonzarich,
Nature (London) **394**, 39 (1998).
