# Strong suppression of superconductivity by divalent ytterbium Kondo
holes in CeCoIn₅

M. Shimozawa

T. Watashige

S. Yasumoto

Y. Mizukami

M. Nakamura

H. Shishido

S. K. Goh

T. Terashima

T. Shibauchi

Y. Matsuda

Department of Physics, Kyoto University, Kyoto 606-8502, Japan Research
Center for Low Temperature and Materials Sciences, Kyoto University,
Kyoto 606-8501, Japan

###### Abstract

To study the nature of partially substituted Yb ions in a Ce-based Kondo
lattice, we fabricated high quality Ce_(1 − x)Yb_(x)CoIn₅ epitaxial thin
films using molecular beam epitaxy. We find that the Yb substitution
leads to a linear decrease of the unit cell volume–indicating that Yb
ions are divalent, forming Kondo holes in Ce_(1 − x)Yb_(x)CoIn₅–and
leads to a strong suppression of the superconductivity and Kondo
coherence. These results, combined with measurements of the Hall effect,
indicate that Yb ions act as nonmagnetic impurity scatterers in the
coherent Kondo lattice without serious suppression of the
antiferromagnetic fluctuations. These results are in stark contrast to
previous studies performed using bulk single crystals, which claim the
importance of valence fluctuations of Yb ions. The present work also
highlights the suitability of epitaxial films in the study of the
impurity effect on the Kondo lattice.

20 July 2012 20 October 2012 20 July 2012 20 October The _c_-axis
oriented epitaxial Ce1-_x_Yb_b,CoIn5 films were grown by MBE. The (001)
surface of MgF2 with rutile structure (_a_ = 0.462 nm, c = 0.305 nm) was
used as a substrate. The substrate temperature was kept at 530-550 degC,
depending on the composition. Each metal element was evaporated from an
individually controlled Knudsen cell. The typical deposition rate was
0.01-0.02 nm/s. The area and thickness of the films were 5.0 x 10.0 mm2
and 120 nm, respectively. The epitaxial growth of each layer with atomic
flatness was carefully checked by monitoring the streak patterns of the
reflection high-energy electron diffraction (RHEED) during the
deposition [see inset of Fig. 1(a)]. The x-ray diffraction _ph_ scan
with fourfold peaks shown in Fig. 1(a) also indicates the epitaxial
growth of the film, which was further confirmed by the x-ray reciprocal
lattice mapping as shown in Fig. 1(b).2 Surface roughness detected by
atomic force microscopy is approximately 1 nm, which is less than 2 unit
cells thick. The energy dispersive x-ray spectroscopy (EDX) analysis
shows that the distribution of x is within 2

In our epitaxial thin films (_a_ = 0.462 nm, c = 0.753 nm), the lattice
parameter a is dictated by the substrate lattice parameter: the misfit
strain slightly enlarges a from that of the bulk single crystal value
(_a_ = 0.461 nm, c = 0.755 nm). Figure 1(c) shows the doping evolution
of the lattice parameters determined by x-ray diffraction. Because of
the epitaxial strain effect, a is independent of x and coincides well
with a of the MgF2 substrate. On the other hand, c (and hence unit-cell
volume) decreases linearly with increasing x and lies on the line
connecting x = 0 and 1. According to the Vegard’s law, the unit-cell
volume should decrease linearly with Yb substitution, if there are no
changes in the valence of Ce and Yb ions. Therefore the observed linear
relation implies that the Ce and Yb ions in the present
Ce1-_x_Yb_x_CoIn5 films retain the valences of the end member compounds,
i.e., the Yb ion is divalent in Ce1-_x_Yb_b,CoIn5, forming nonmagnetic
"Kondo holes" in the 4f1 lattice. This result is in sharp contrast to
the results using bulk single crystals, in which c is x independent
[open circles in Fig. 1(c)].6,7

Figures 2(a) and 2(b) depict the temperature dependence of the in-plane
resistivity r and Hall coefficient _R_H for
$\left. \text{\@text{H}} \right|$_c_, which is defined as the field
derivative of the Hall resistivity at the zero-field limit. First we
compare the transport properties of the pure CeCoIn5 thin film with
those of the single crystal. The temperature dependence of both the
resistivity and Hall coefficient in the thin film are essentially the
same as those in bulk single crystals.15 Associated with an
incoherent-coherent crossover, r shows a maximum at _T_coh at around 40
K. The absolute value of r of the CeCoIn5 thin film is close to that of
the bulk single crystal. In particular, r 6 m2 cm at the superconducting
onset is close to the bulk single crystal value, which ranges from 3 to
8 m2 cm.3,23,24 The resistivity below _T_coh in the bulk single crystal
exhibits a _T_-linear dependence, which is a hallmark of
non-Fermi-liquid behavior. In our thin film, the resistivity exhibits a
T dependence with an exponent slightly below unity.

_R_H is negative across the whole temperature range. The temperature
dependence of _R_H is closely correlated with that of the
resistivity.15,25 At high temperatures T > _T_coh, _R_H is nearly
temperature independent. Below _T_coh, _R_H decreases rapidly as the
temperature is lowered. Further reduction of the temperature increases
_R_H after showing a minimum at around 5 K. The magnitude of _R_H above
_T_coh matches well with that of the bulk single crystal.15 The
enhancement of the absolute value of _R_H below _T_coh is nearly 15
times that at above _T_coh, which is nearly half of that seen in the
bulk single crystal. The superconducting transition temperature of the
CeCoIn5 thin

Figure 2: (Color online) Temperature dependence of the (a) resistivity
and (b) Hall coefficient for Ce1-_x_Yb_c_CoIn5.

Figure 1: (Color online) (a) X-ray diffraction _ph_-scan data of the
(115) peak for Ce0.83Yb0.2CoIn5. Inset: Streak patterns of the RHEED
image during the crystal growth. (b) X-ray reciprocal lattice mapping
for Ce0.83Yb0.2CoIn5 near the (115) peak. (c) Lattice parameters a
(filled green triangles) and c (filled red squares and circles) for
Ce1-_x_Yb_b_CoIn5 films. Here c is determined by reciprocal mapping
(squares) and _θ_-_2θ_ scan (circles). Open blue circles represent c of
bulk crystals reported in Ref. 6. The dashed lines are guides for the
eyes. The inset shows x determined by EDX, _x_EDX, vs x determined by
the evaporation ratio of Ce to Yb atoms.

film is 1.95 K, which is slightly lower than T_(c) = 2.3 K of the bulk
single crystal. Since the ρ value at the superconducting onset (and
residual resistivity which will be discussed later) in our thin film is
comparable to the bulk single crystal value, this T_(c) reduction is
likely to be due to the strain effect arising from the substrate. In
fact, it has been reported that the negative pressure in CeCoIn₇ reduces
T_(c).[26] Based on these results, we conclude that the quality of our
epitaxial thin films grown by MBE is comparable to that of high quality
bulk single crystals.

Next we discuss the effect of Yb substitution on the normal state
transport properties. As shown in Fig. 2(a), a broad maximum of ρ(T)
associated with the formation of Kondo coherence is observed at
T_(coh)(x) in Yb-substituted CeCoIn₅. Figure 3(a) depicts the x
dependence of T_(coh), which is simply defined as the peak position of
ρ(T). Yb substitution seriously reduces the Kondo coherence and T_(coh)
appears to go to zero at around x = 0.5. Since it is highly unlikely
that the Fermi temperature is dramatically suppressed by Yb
substitution, the observed reduction of T_(coh) arises from the
destruction of the Kondo coherence by the Yb²⁺ Kondo holes in the
Ce³⁺f-electron lattice. In Yb-doped compounds ρ(T) exhibits sub-T-linear
behavior below T_(coh). We fit the resistivity to a power law
ρ(T) = ρ₀ + AT^(α) [Fig. 3(b)]. The resistivity can be fitted very well
by this equation for x = 0 and 0.02 with the residual resistivity
ρ₀ = 4.8 and 6.0 μΩ cm and α = 0.88 and 0.80, respectively, in a wide
temperature range below  ∼ T_(coh)/2 down to T_(c). For x ≥ 0.05, we
cannot fit ρ(T) to the solution in a wide temperature range and
therefore we estimate ρ₀ by a polynomial fitting from T_(c) to T_(coh)/2
[see the dashed lines in Fig 3(b)]. As shown in Fig. 4(a), the residual
resistivity nearly linearly increases with x. The present results are
very different from those reported in bulk single crystals where T_(coh)
is nearly x independent, as shown with open symbols in Fig. 3(a), and α
barely changes with x up to x = 0.1.[6]

The measurements of the Hall effect provide vital information regarding
the nature of the Yb ion in the Ce-Kondo lattice. As shown in Fig. 2(b),
the Hall effect is very sensitive to the Yb substitution. At
T > T_(coh), the absolute value of R_(H) is small and nearly temperature
independent for all x. This is consistent with Vegard’s law which
suggests that Yb is divalent in a trivalent Ce lattice. Below T_(coh),
the enhancement of |R_(H)| is strongly suppressed by the Yb doping. The
low-temperature enhancement of |R_(H)|, which is significantly larger
than |1/ne| where n is the carrier concentration, has also been reported
in other strongly correlated electron systems including cuprates,[27]
iron-pnictides,[28]κ-(BEDT-TTF)₂Cu(NCS)₂,[29] and V_(2 − y)O₃.[30] It
has been shown that the striking enhancement of |R_(H)| at low
temperatures can be accounted for in terms of a "hot spot"on the Fermi
surface (FS) and backflow effect, both of which originate from strong AF
fluctuations.[31] The hot spot is a FS region where the electron
lifetime is unusually short, which appears at the positions where the AF
Brillouin zone boundary intersects with the FS. Since the hot spot does
not contribute to electron transport, the effective carrier
concentration is reduced, which results in the enhancement of |R_(H)|
from |1/ne|.[32] However, this effect is not enough to explain the
dramatic enhancement of |R_(H)| below T_(coh). Another important effect
is the backflow effect, which when accompanied by the anisotropic
scattering, is called the "current vertex correction.[31] Backflow is a
polarized current caused by a quasiparticle excitation inherent in the
Fermi liquid. In the presence of the backflow effect, the total current
is not parallel to the Fermi velocity, and then the Hall coefficient is
seriously modified from the Boltzmann value derived from the curvature
of the FS. It has been shown that the backflow effect can largely
enhance |R_(H)| in CeMIn₅ (M= Co, Rh, and Ir).[15, 25]

The observed strong suppression of |R_(H)| by Yb substitution indicates
that the backflow effect is seriously reduced. There are two possible
origins for this. The first is the reduction of AF fluctuations and the
second is the increase of isotropic impurity scattering by nonmagnetic
Yb ions. In the former case, since the system is tuned away from the
quantum critical point, the T-linear resistivity is expected to change
to T² dependence accompanied by a reduction of ρ₀.[15] However, such a
trend is not observed here. Instead, the T-linear resistivity becomes
sub-T-linear and ρ₀ increases with Yb substitution. This

Figure 4: (Color online) (a) x dependence of the residual resistivity.
The dotted line is a guide for the eyes. (b) x dependence of the
superconducting transition temperature normalized by the value at x = 0
for thin films (filled red circles) and bulk crystals [open blue squares
(Ref. 6) and open circles (Ref. 8)]. (c) T_(c)/T_(c0) plotted as a
function of residual resistivity. The dotted line is the linear
extrapolation from the low ρ₀ region. The solid curve represents the
result fitted by Abrikosov-Gorkov (AG) theory.

Figure 3: (Color online) (a) x dependence of T_(coh) normalized by the
value at x = 0 for thin films (filled red circles) and bulk crystals
reported in Ref. 6 (open blue circles). (b) Temperature dependence of
the resistivity at low temperatures. The dashed lines are the
extrapolation above T_(c).

increase of ρ₀ is consistent with the increase of isotropic scattering.
In addition, it has been shown that, in the presence of strong AF
fluctuations, sub-T-linear dependence of ρ(T) appears with increasing
impurity scattering,[33] which is again consistent with the present
results. Thus the normal state transport properties suggest that Yb ions
are divalent and act as impurity scattering centers, rather than a
suppressor of AF fluctuations.

Next we discuss the influence of Yb substitution on the superconducting
properties. As shown in Fig. 3(b), sharp resistive transitions are
observed for x ≤ 0.20, but the transition is slightly broader for
x = 0.30. No superconducting transition is observed for x = 0.40 down to
0.3 K. Figure 4(b) displays the x dependence of T_(c), which is defined
as the midpoint of the resistive transition, normalized by T_(c) of
x = 0. T_(c) decreases linearly with x and goes to zero at around
x = 0.40. We stress that the observed Yb-doping evolution of T_(c) is
again in marked contrast to that reported in bulk single crystals shown
by open symbols in Fig. 4(b). In Fig. 4(c) we plot T_(c)/T_(c0) (see
below) against ρ₀. In the low-ρ₀ range, T_(c)/T_(c0) decreases linearly
as shown by the dotted line. When ρ₀ exceeds  ∼ 18 μΩ cm, T_(c) begins
to deviate from linearity. We analyze this trend of T_(c)/T_(c0) in
accordance with the AG theory of nonmagnetic impurity effects in d-wave
superconductors.[34] The fitting parameters used to compare experiment
to theory are the slope in the low-ρ₀ region and T_(c0), where T_(c0) is
the transition temperature with no pair breaking. The solid line in Fig.
4(c) is the result of fitting obtained by using T_(c0) = 2.20 K and the
initial slope −0.025 (μΩ cm)⁻¹. As shown in Fig. 4(c), the suppression
of T_(c) is well reproduced by the AG pair breaking curve in the whole
ρ₀ range.

The fact that our data can be well described by the AG theory
immediately implies that the Yb ions are randomly distributed with weak
inter-ion correlation. Moreover, the "Swiss cheese"model[5] is
inadequate because such a model will give a T_(c)(ρ₀) curve that lies
above the dotted line for high ρ₀ in Fig. 4(c).[35] The effect of Yb
substitution on CeCoIn₅ bears striking resemblance to other rare-earth
substitutions, although Yb is divalent while other rare earths are
trivalent. This suggests that these ions act as impurity centers with
unitary scattering, regardless of their valence. Furthermore, the
valence fluctuations of Yb ions, if present at all, do not appear to
play an important role on the physical properties in the normal state as
well as the superconducting state. At the present stage, the essential
difference of the Yb-substitution effect between thin films and bulk
single crystals remains an open question. A possible origin for this may
be that bulk crystals contain some regions where inter-Yb-ion
correlation is important.[36] Further studies are required to clarify
this issue.

To summarize, in high quality Ce_(1 − x)Yb_(x)CoIn₅ epitaxial thin
films, Yb ions are divalent and no signature of the valence fluctuation
is observed. The Yb substitution leads to a strong suppression of the
superconductivity and Kondo coherence. The suppression of T_(c) can be
well described by AG theory. These results indicate that Kondo holes
created by Yb ions act as nonmagnetic impurity scatterers in the Kondo
lattice with no serious reduction of AF fluctuations. These results are
in sharp contrast to previous studies performed using bulk single
crystals, which claim the importance of valence fluctuations of Yb ions.
The present work also emphasizes the uniqueness of the epitaxial films
in the study of the impurity effect on the f-electron Kondo lattices,
due to the prospect of preparing highly homogeneous doped systems.

We thank C. Capan, H. Ikeda, N. Kawakami, H. Kontani, M. B. Maple, L.
Shu, and C. Watling for helpful discussions. This work was supported by
a Grant-in-Aid for the Global COE program "The Next Generation of
Physics, Spun from Universality and Emergence" and a Grant-in-Aid for
Scientific Research on Innovative Areas "Heavy Electrons" (No. 20102006
and No. 23102713) from MEXT of Japan and KAKENHI from JSPS.

## References

* [1] A. V. Balatsky, I. Vekhter, and J-X. Zhu, Rev. Mod. Phys. **78**,
373 (2006). * [2] G. R. Stewart, Rev. Mod. Phys. **83**, 1589 (2011). *
[3] J. Paglione, T. A. Sayles, P.-C. Ho, J. R. Jeffries, and M. B.
Maple, Nature Phys. **3**, 703 (2007). * [4] C. Capan _et al._, Phys.
Rev. B **82**, 035112 (2010). * [5] E. D. Bauer _et al._, Proc. Natl.
Acad. Sci. USA **108**, 6857 (2011). * [6] L. Shu _et al._, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **106**, 156403 (2011). * [7] C. Capan _et al._, Europhys. Lett.
**92**, 47004 (2010). * [8] C. H. Booth, T. Durakiewicz, C. Capan, D.
Hurt, A. D. Bianchi, J. J. Joyce, and Z. Fisk, Phys. Rev. B **83**,
235117 (2011). * [9] M. H. Hamidian _et al._, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA
**108**, 18233 (2011). * [10] C. Petrovic _et al._, J. Phys.: Condens.
Matter **13**, L337 (2001). * [11] K. Izawa, H. Yamaguchi, Y. Matsuda,
H. Shishido, R. Settai, and Y. Onuki, Phys. Rev. Lett. **87**, 057002
(2001). * [12] K. An, T. Sakakibara, R. Settai, Y. Onuki, M. Hiragi, M.
Ichioka, and K. Machida, Phys. Rev. Lett. **104**, 037002 (2010). * [13]
C. Stock, C. Broholm, J. Hudis, H. J. Kang, and C. Petrovic, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **100**, 087001 (2008). * [14] V. A. Sidorov, M. Nicklas, P. G.
Pagliuso, J. L. Sarrao, Y. Bang, A. V. Balatsky, and J. D. Thompson,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **89**, 157004 (2002). * [15] Y. Nakajima _et al._, J.
Phys. Soc. Jpn. **76**, 024703 (2007). * [16] Y. Mizukami _et al._,
Nature Phys. **7**, 849 (2011). * [17] S. Nakatsuji, S. Yeo, L. Balicas,
Z. Fisk, P. Schlottmann, P. G. Pagliuso, N. O. Moreno, J. L. Sarrao, and
J. D. Thompson, Phys. Rev. Lett. **89**, 106402 (2002). * [18] S. M.
Ramos _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **105**, 126401 (2010). * [19] V. I.
Zaremba _et al._, Z. Anorg. Alleg. Chem. **629**, 1157 (2003). * [20] C.
Petrovic, S. L. Bud’ko, V. G. Kogan, and P. C. Canfield, Phys. Rev. B
**66**, 054534 (2002). * [21] H. Shishido _et al._, Science **327**, 980
(2010). * [22] The x-ray Bragg peak of Ce_(1 − x)Yb_(x)CoIn₅ is broader
than that of the substrate. This is because the mosaicity inevitably
appears during the crystal growth. We note that the mosaicity, arising
from the dislocation due to a small but finite lattice mismatch between
Ce_(1 − x)Yb_(x)CoIn₅ and MgF₂, does not affect the lattice constants of
our films. * [23] R. Movshovich, M. Jaime, J. D. Thompson, C. Petrovic,
Z. Fisk, P. G. Pagliuso, and J. L. Sarrao, Phys. Rev. Lett. **86**, 5152
(2001).

* (24) M. Nicklas _et al._, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter **13**, L905
(2001). * (25) Y. Nakajima _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **77**, 214504
(2008). * (26) L. D. Pham, T. Park, S. Maquilon, J. D. Thompson, and Z.
Fisk, Phys. Rev. Lett. **97**, 056404 (2006). * (27) H. Y. Hwang, B.
Batlogg, H. Takagi, H. L. Kao, J. Kwo, R. J. Cava, J. J. Krajewski, and
W. F. Peck, Phys. Rev. Lett. **72**, 2636 (1994). * (28) S. Kasahara _et
al._, Phys. Rev. B **81**, 184519 (2010). * (29) Yu. V. Sushko _et al._,
Synth. Met. **85**, 1541 (1997). * (30) T. F. Rosenbaum, A. Husmann, S.
A. Carter, and J. M. Honig, Phys. Rev. B **57**, R13997 (1998). * (31)
H. Kontani, K. Kanki, and K. Ueda, Phys. Rev. B **59**, 14723 (1999). *
(32) B. P. Stojkovic and D. Pines, Phys. Rev. B **55**, 8576 (1997). *
(33) H. Kontani and M. Ohno, Phys. Rev. B **74**, 014406 (2006). * (34)
Y. Sun and K. Maki, Phys. Rev. B **51**, 6059 (1995). * (35) M. Franz,
C. Kallin, A. J. Berlinsky, and M. I. Salkola, Phys. Rev. B **56**, 7882
(1997). * (36) M. Dzero and X. Huang, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter **24**,
075603 (2012).
