# Determination of Ru valence from x-ray absorption near-edge structure

in RuSr2GdCu2O8-type superconductors

R. S. Liu

Department of Chemistry, National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan,
Republic of China

L.-Y. Jang and H.-H. Hung

Synchrotron Radiation Research Center (SRRC), Hsinchu, Taiwan, Republic
of China

J. L. Tallon

Industrial Research Limited, P.O. Box 13130, Lower Hutt, New Zealand

Received 24 May 2000; published 2 May 2001

###### Abstract

The Ru valence in the antiferromagnetic and ferromagnetic ruthenocuprate
superconductors RuSr2_R_Cu2O8 (Ru-1212), with R = Eu, Gd, and Gd0_d
Center (SRRC) in Hsinchu, using a Si(111) double-crystal monochromator.
The energy resolution (_E_/D_E_) of the beamline is  6000 (i.e.,  0.47
eV at  2.84 keV). The beamline was optimized for x-ray photons in the
2-3 keV range (the Ru _L_III edge is at 2838 eV) for the XANES
measurements. The Ru-_L_III x-ray absorption spectra of the
polycrystalline samples were recorded in the fluorescence mode using a
Lylte detector. Both the _L_II and _L_III edges of Mo and Pd foils were
used to calibrate the photon energy before and after the measurements.
The spectra were measured between energies  200 eV before the edge and
 130 eV above the edge. The autobk code [11] was used for background
subtraction.

In Fig. 2 we show the Ru _L_III-edge XANES spectra of RuSr2EuCu2O8,
RuSr2GdCu2O8, RuSr2GdCu2O8, RuSr2GdCu2O8, RuSr(Sr1,Ba0,a)GdCu2O8,
Sr2GdRuO6 (Ru5+), and Sr2RuO4 (Ru4+). The Ru ions in each of these six
compounds have an octahedral coordination and a crystal field with O_(h)
symmetry giving rise to a splitting of the 4d states into t2_g_ and _e_g
levels separated by D = 10 Dq. The _L_III absorption spectrum of the
Ru(IV) standard of Sr2RuO4 with 4d4 configuration exhibits two peaks
(denoted as A and _B_). The higher-energy peak B (2842.0 eV) and a
lower-energy peak (shoulder) A (2839.6 eV) can be assigned to 2p - e_(g)
and 2p - t2_g transitions, respectively. A very similar spectrum was
obtained for SrRuO3. The Ru(V) compound Sr2GdRuO6 with a 4d3
configuration also has two peaks (denoted as A’ and _B’_). The
higher-energy peak _B’_ (2843.6 eV) and a lower-energy peak _A’_ (2840.6
eV) can be assigned to 2p - e_(g) and 2p - t2_g_ transitions,
respectively, which is similar to that of Ru(IV) except with a larger D
value. Moreover, with the increase in the valence of Ru from IV to V the
double-peaked _L_III edge is shifted by  1.5 eV to higher energy, which
is consistent with the results reported by Hu _et al._[9] using the
standards of Ru(IV) of RuO2 and Sr2RuO4 and Ru(V) of Sr4Ru2O9.

Such a chemical shift is caused by changes in the electrostatic energy
at the Ru site driven by the variation of the ionic valence in the
compounds. It is well established that the effective ionic valence of
the compounds can be measured from the chemical shift in the core-level
x-ray photoemission spectroscopy.[12] These chemical shifts in
electron-energy-loss spectroscopy (EELS) have also been used to
determine the valences of the transition-metal-based compounds.[13] We
then adopt the same scheme to obtain the Ru valence in the present
Ru-1212 samples. As demonstrated in Fig. 2, the main double-peaked
_L_III-edge positions of these four samples appear closer to those in
Sr2GdRuO6 with Ru5+. There is little obvious change in the Ru-1212
spectra irrespective of the chemical substitution at the R sites of
RuSr2_R_Cu2O8 (_R_ = Gd, Eu, Gd0,6Dy0.4). However, it is clear that
there is additional weight between these peaks that is attributable to
the B peak in the Sr2RuO4 (or SrRuO3) spectrum. Indeed, the dashed curve
shows the result of combining the two spectra in the ratio
0.4Sr2RuO4+0.6Sr2GdRuO6. The result is a very close match to the
spectrum for RuSr2GdCu2O8. In this way, we conclude that the three
Ba-free Ru-1212 samples are consistent with a combination comprising
0.4-0.5 Ru(IV) and 0.6-0.5 Ru(V), inasmuch as the linear combination of
such spectra can be taken as a guide to the relative proportions of
valence states. An almost identical apportionment of mixed valency was
obtained by fitting the spectra using the SrRuO3 reference spectrum.
Because these compounds are highly

Figure 2: Ru _L_III-edge x-ray absorption near-edge structure (XANES)
spectra for RuSr2_R_Cu2O8 with R = Eu, Gd, and Gd0.0_Dy0.4 and for
Ru(Sr1,Ba0).GdCu2O8. Also shown are the spectra for reference samples
Sr2RuO4 (Ru4+) and Sr2GdRuO6 (Ru5+). The dashed curve is a linear
combination of these reference spectra in the proportion 0.4 (Sr2RuO4)
and 0.6 (Sr2GdRuO6).

oxygen stoichiometric,[3, 10] this mixed valence leads to a doped hole
concentration on the CuO₂ planes of 0.2−0.25, values which are quite
reasonable for the occurrence of superconductivity, but larger than the
values (0.07−0.08) estimated from thermopower and superconducting
properties.[1, 2, 10] The Ba-substituted sample appears to exhibit a
slightly lower fraction of Ru(IV).

The occurrence of mixed Ru valency in accordance with two quite
different moments within the RuO₂ layer allows the possibility of
ferrimagnetic ordering in these compounds–namely, AF ordering of moments
such that adjacent spins are antiparallel, but sum to a net moment
because of their two different magnitudes. A scenario such as this could
explain the different size[14] of the high-temperature effective moment
(3.15μ_(B)) and the low-temperature saturation moment (1.1μ_(B)), which,
below 30 K, requires only ∼1 T to saturate. It could also implicate a
double-exchange interaction, explaining the sharp reduction in the Hall
coefficient[15] observed at the onset of the magnetic transition at 132
K.

By comparing the measured spectra, it is also clear that they exhibit
subtle changes induced by the variation in rare-earth element or by Ba
substitution for Sr. In particular, the apparent proportion of Ru⁴⁺ and
Ru⁵⁺ changes with such a substitution. The difference spectra between
Ru(Sr_(1.6)Ba_(0.4))GdCu₂O₈ and RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈ can be well modeled by 0.12
Ru(V)−0.11 Ru(IV), suggesting that the Ba compound has 0.72 Ru(V) and
0.28 Ru(IV), while the pure compound has 0.6 Ru(V) and 0.4 Ru(IV). In
support of this scenario, we note that the remanent magnetization for
Ru(Sr_(1.6)Ba_(0.4))GdCu₂O₈ is reduced to half that of the Ba-free
compound,[16] reflecting the substantially reduced fraction of Ru⁴⁺. The
best-fit proportions for each Ru-1212 compound are summarized in Table 1
together with the resultant estimates of the hole concentration p,
assuming charge balance and fully stoichiometric oxygen content. Also
shown are the values of the bond valence parameter for the CuO₂ planes
V⁻=2 + $V_{\rm Cu}-2V_{\rm O}$, which has been used to estimate hole
concentrations in the cuprates.[17] Values of V⁻ are calculated, as
described previously,[17] from bond lengths determined from synchrotron
x-ray diffraction measurements on these samples.[18] The numbers
presented in Table 1 probably cannot be taken too literally, but the
qualitative trends are likely to be real. Both estimates of hole
concentration well exceed values estimated from transport properties.[1,
2, 10]

Recently, Felner _et al.[19]_ have reported that Ru is pentavalent in
RuSr₂(Eu_(1.5)Ce_(0.5))Cu₂O₁₀ (Ru-1222) by Ru K-edge XANES spectroscopy.
The Ru-1222 compounds, which also exhibit similar superconductivity and
weak ferromagnetism, have a bilayer fluorite-type Eu_(1.5)Ce_(0.5)O₂
block separating the adjacent CuO₂ layers unlike the 1212 compounds,
which have a single rare-earth layer.[3] Because of the similarity of
the superconducting and magnetic properties of Ru-1222 and Ru-1212, one
might expect that Ru-1222 also exhibits mixed Ru valency. However, this
compound is not oxygen stoichiometric, and this, in combination with the
Eu/Ce substitutional chemistry, could accommodate a rigid Ru⁵⁺ valency
while still allowing charge transfer of carriers into the
superconducting CuO₂ layers. Clearly, a close comparison of the magnetic
properties of these two compounds is called for.

In summary, our study using Ru $L_{\rm III}$-edge x-ray absorption
near-edge structure spectra has shown that the Ru valence in the Ru-1212
ruthenocuprate superconductors is a mixture of 0.4−0.5 Ru⁴⁺ and 0.6−0.5
Ru⁵⁺, thus raising the possibility of ferrimagnetic ordering or possible
double-exchange interaction. This deduced valency admixture is
consistent with recent high-temperature susceptibility measurements of
the effective moment.[14] It is, moreover, consistent with the
observation that substitution of Sn⁴⁺ for Ru causes an increase in T_(c)
and a decrease in room-temperature thermoelectric power consistent with
hole doping in the CuO₂ planes. On the other hand, substitution of Nb⁵⁺
for Ru results in the opposite effect–namely, a decease in T_(c) and an
increase in the room-temperature thermoelectric power consistent with
electron doping.[20] These substitutional effects suggest that the mean
Ru valence is neither 4+ nor 5+, but takes an intermediate value.

This research was financially supported by the National Science Council
of the Republic of China under Grant No. NSC 89-2113-M-002-004. J.L.T.
thanks the New Zealand Marsden Fund for financial support.

## References

* [1] J. L. Tallon, C. Bernhard, M. Bowden, P. Giberd, T. Stoto, and D.
Pringle, IEEE Trans. Appl. Supercond. **9**, 1696 (1999). * [2] C.
Bernhard, J. L. Tallon, Ch. Niedermayer, Th. Blasius, A. Golnik, E.
Brucher, R. K. Kremer, D. R. Noakes, and C. E. Stronach, Phys. Rev. B
**59**, 14 099 (1999). * [3] A. C. McLaughlin, W. Zhou, J. P. Attfield,
A. N. Fitch, and J. L. Tallon, Phys. Rev. B **60**, 7512 (1999). * [4]
L. Bauernfeind, W. Widder, and H. F. Braun, Physica C **254**, 151
(1995). * [5] J. W. Lynn, B. Keimer, C. Ulrich, C. Bernhard, and J. L.
Tallon, Phys. Rev. B **61**, R14 964 (2000). * [6] R. S. Liu, J. B. Wu,
C. Y. Chang, J. G. Lin, C. Y. Huang, J. M. Chen, and R. G. Liu, J. Solid
State Chem. **125**, 112 (1996). * [7] R. S. Liu, L. Y. Jang, J. M.
Chen, J. B. Wu, R. G. Liu, J. G. Lin,

  ----------------------------- ------ ------ ------ ------
            Compound             Ru⁴⁺   Ru⁵⁺    p      V⁻
          RuSr₂EuCu₂O₈           0.38   0.62   0.19   0.46
          RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈           0.40   0.60   0.20   0.43
   RuSr₂Gd_(0.6)Dy_(0.4))Cu₂O₈   0.47   0.53   0.23   0.45
   Ru(Sr_(1.6)Ba_(0.4))GdCu₂O₈   0.28   0.72   0.14   0.34
  ----------------------------- ------ ------ ------ ------

Table 1: Best fits to the Ru-1212 XANES spectra from a linear
combination of the spectra for Sr₂RuO₄ (Ru⁴⁺) and Sr₂GdRuO₆ (Ru⁵⁺). Also
shown is the resultant inferred nominal hole concentration per copper
atom, p, on the CuO₂ layers and the bond valence sum V⁻=2 +
$V_{\rm Cu}-2V_{\rm O}$ determined from the copper and oxygen bond
valence sums $V_{\rm Cu}$ and $V_{\rm O}$, respectively.

and C. Y. Huang, Solid State Commun. **105**, 605 (1998). * [8] Z. Hu,
C. Mazumdar, G. Kaindl, F. M. F. de Groot, S. A. Warda, and D. Reinen,
Chem. Phys. Lett. **297**, 321 (1998). * [9] Z. Hu, H. von Lips, M. S.
Golden, J. Fink, G. Kaindl, F. M. F. de Groot, S. Ebbinghaus, and A.
Reller, Phys. Rev. B **61**, 5262 (2000). * [10] J. L. Tallon, J. W.
Loram, G. V. M. Williams, and C. Bernhard, Phys. Rev. B **61**, R6471
(2000). * [11] M. Newville, P. Livins, Y. Yacoby, J. J. Rehr, and E. A.
Stern, Phys. Rev. B **47**, 14 126 (1993). * [12] J. Stohr, _NEXAFS
Spectroscopy_ (Springer-Verlag, New York, 1992). * [13] J. Tafta and O.
L. Krivanek, Phys. Rev. Lett. **48**, 560 (1982). * [14] A. Butera, A.
Fainstein, E. Winkler, and J. L. Tallon, Phys. Rev. B (to be
published). * [15] J. E. McCrone, J. R. Cooper, and J. L. Tallon, J. Low
Temp. Phys. **117**, 1199 (1999). * [16] C. Bernhard and J. L. Tallon
(private communication). * [17] J. L. Tallon, Physica C **168**, 85
(1990). * [18] A. C. McLaughlin, J. P. Attfield, C. Bernhard, and J. L.
Tallon (unpublished). * [19] I. Felner, U. Asaf, C. Godart, and E.
Alleno, Physica B **259-261**, 703 (1999). * [20] J. E. McCrone, Ph.D.
thesis, Trinity College, Cambridge University, 2000.
