X-ray absorption spectroscopy of detwinned
Pr_(x)Y_(1 − x)Ba₂Cu₃O_(7 − y) single crystals: Electronic structure and
hole distribution

M. Merz, N. Nucker, E. Pellegrin, P. Schweiss, S. Schuppler

Forschungszentrum Karlsruhe, INFP, P.O. Box 3640, D-76021 Karlsruhe,
Germany

M. Kielwein, M. Knupfer, M. S. Golden, and J. Fink

Institut fur Festkorper- und Werkstofforschung Dresden, P.O. Box 270016,
D-01171 Dresden, Germany

C. T. Chen

Synchrotron Radiation Research Center, Hsinchu Science-based Industrial
Park, Hsinchu 300, Taiwan

V. Chakarian and Y. U. Idzerda

Naval Research Laboratory, Code 6345, Washington, D.C. 20375

A. Erb

Departement de Physique de la Matiere Condensee, Universite de Geneve,
24, quai Ernest-Ansermet, CH-1211 Geneve, Switzerland

###### Abstract

Substituting Y in orthorhombic (Y,_R_)Ba₂Cu₃O₇ by any rare-earth element
R has generally little effect on the superconducting properties. For R =
Pr, however, superconductivity is completely suppressed. To understand
this effect we have studied the unoccupied electronic structure of
Pr_(x)Y_(1 − x)Ba₂Cu₃O_(7 − y) (_x_ = 0.0, 0.4, 0.8) using
polarization-dependent O _1s_ near-edge x-ray absorption spectroscopy of
detwinned single crystals. We identify the hole states in the CuO₂
planes and the CuO₃ chains and give estimates of the relative
contributions of the O 2_p_(x)_, O 2_p_(y)_, and O 2_p_(z)_ orbitals to
these states. Along with the comparison of oxygen-rich (_y_ ≈0.1) to the
oxygen-depleted materials (_y_ ≈0.9), this allows a test of the current
theoretical explanations for the Pr-induced suppression of
superconductivity. While we can rule out models involving hole filling
or charge transfer between the planes and the chains, our data are
consistent with approaches based on Pr 4_f_-O 2_p_(π)_ hybridization.
[S0163-1829(97)03313-4]

## I Introduction

The discovery of high-temperature superconductivity (HTSC) in 1986 (Ref.
[1]) has triggered a cascade of theoretical and experimental research
concerning the underlying mechanism of HTSC, but nevertheless an
unambiguous answer to the question of the origin of HTSC remains
elusive. Much work has concentrated on direct determinations of the
spatial, electronic, and phonon structure of high-temperature
superconductors. One complementary approach is to investigate compounds
obtained from high-temperature superconductors by specifically
substituting characteristic elements, thereby reducing or even
suppressing the superconducting transition temperature _T_(c)_. A most
interesting example exists within the family related to
YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − y),2 where the suppression of superconductivity upon
replacing Y with Pr has generated a lively discussion in recent years.

Footnote 2: The R Ba₂Cu₃O_(7 − y) is the R Ba₂Cu₃O_(7 − y), where the R
Ba${}_{2}

  In order to explain the \(T_{c}$ suppression in the p-type system
Pr_(x)Y_(1 − x)Ba₂Cu₃O_(7 − y), up to now several models have been
suggested while still no general agreement on the Pr valence has been
reached. The prevailing proposals can be divided into three main
categories: (i) filling of mobile holes, (ii) magnetic interaction
and/or localization effects mediated through hybridization of Pr 4f with
O 2p states, and (iii) gradual hole transfer between the planes and the
chains.

(i) In the hole-filling model the Pr valence is assumed to be greater
than +3 to explain the lack of metallic behavior in PrBa₂Cu₃O₇ and also
to account for the Ca-induced recovery of superconductivity in thin
films of Pr_(0.5)Ca_(0.5)Ba₂Cu₃O₇.[19] Since superconductivity in
YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − y), just as in La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)Cu₂O_(4 + δ), requires
holes in the conducting CuO₂ planes,[30, 21] delocalized holes in the
planes are annihilated due to the substitution of trivalent Y by Pr with
a valence greater than 3+. This approach implies that the suppression of
superconductivity results from a reduced number of charge carriers in
the CuO₂ planes. Magnetic susceptibility,[6, 8, 12] Hall effect,[8]
thermopower,[79, 10] nuclear magnetic resonance,[15] muon-spin
relaxation,[16] and neutron diffraction measurements[22, 23, 24] have
been interpreted in terms of hole depletion. On closer inspection,
however, it has been shown that these results can also be understood as
an indication for Pr³⁺. For example, S$\acute{\rm o}$derholm _et
al.[25]_ and Hilscher _et al.[26]_ were able to explain the reduced
magnetic moment, taking a crystal field splitting of the ³H₄ ground
state of Pr³⁺ into consideration. On the other hand, most band structure
calculations[27] and high-energy spectroscopy experiments support a
trivalent Pr atom. These experiments include resonant photoemission
spectroscopy,[28] x-ray absorption,[29, 30] and electron energy-loss
spectroscopy[31] on the O 1s, Pr 2p, and Pr 3d edges. Taken together,
this evidence effectively rules out hole filling as responsible for the
lack of superconductivity.

(ii) Alternatively, a magnetic pair-breaking effect by the local moment
of the Pr atom has been invoked as an explanation,[12, 27] since the
degradation of T_(c) with increasing Pr concentration seemed to be
compatible with Abrikosov-Gorkov theory. However, pair breaking itself
does not localize charge carriers and, thus, explains neither the
nonmetallicity in PrBa₂Cu₃O₇ nor the recovery of superconductivity upon
doping with Ca. In addition, T_(c) remains wholly unaffected upon
substitution of Y by Gd although the Gd ⁸S_(7/2) ground state exhibits a
much stronger magnetic moment than the ³H₄ ground state of Pr³⁺.

Quite early on, a further approach to this problem was put forward: O 2p
also (for nomenclature see Ref. [34]) are still present in the CuO₂
planes but are assumed to be strongly hybridized with Pr 4f states.[31]
This renders the initially mobile holes localized and in effect leads to
the insulating and nonsuperconducting behavior observed. However, this
explanation was also refuted as hybridization of Pr 4f with O 2_p__(σ)
states vanishes by symmetry and the hybridization with Cu 3_d__(x² − y²)
states is very small. Thus, based on the optical data of Takenaka _et
al._,[32] Fehrenbacher and Rice (FR) explained the absence of
superconductivity in PrBa₂Cu₃O₇ by the existence of a local Pr
4_f__(z(x² − y²))-O 2p = hybridized state[33, 34] which binds the holes
to Pr sites. They conclude that holes are transferred from primarily
planar O 2_p__(σ) to O 2_p__(σ) orbitals, i.e., from the Zhang-Rice (ZR)
state[35, 36] into this FR state. According to Fehrenbacher and Rice,
the only possible hole state is a superposition of the eight O(2,3)
2_p__(π) orbitals with f_(z(x² − y²)) symmetry with respect to the
central Pr atom, and they assume that the O 2_p__(π) orbitals point
towards the Pr atom. This seems to suggest that the O 2_p__(π) orbitals
are "rotated" by about 45^(∘) with respect to the CuO₂ planes.[33, 34]
To facilitate the hybridization between the eight O 2_p__(π) orbitals
and the f_(z(x² − y²)) states of the central Pr atom a fraction
_nF_^(∼)0.5 of all Pr atoms has to be in the formal oxidation state IV.
Finally, Fehrenbacher and Rice assess the number of holes transferred to
the Pr atom to be _n_${}_{\rm Pr}$=0.15−0.2. Remarkably, this small
number–still compatible with the experimental findings for the Pr
valence–suffices to stabilize the FR hybridization, thus localizing the
holes in the Pr 4_f__(z(x² − y²))-O 2_p__(π) orbitals.

Taking correlation effects on the rare-earth site into account,
Liechtenstein and Mazin presented local density approximation
(LDA)+_U_${}_{\rm Pr}$ calculations based on the idea of FR states.[37]
In contrast to Fehrenbacher and Rice,[33] they find a dispersive ligand
band in place of local _p__(π) orbitals with f_(z(x² − y²)) symmetry
around the central R atom. Due to the interaction with the Pr 4f state,
the top of this ligand band is partially pushed above the Fermi level,
thereby grabbing the mobile holes from the ZR state. Liechtenstein and
Mazin emphasize that this band has mainly planar character at the zone
corner, where the band is above the Fermi level (_E__(F)), and _p__(z)
character only at the zone center, where the FR band lies ∼2 eV below
_E__(F). In order to account for the insulating behavior of PrBa₂Cu₃O₇
they assume substantial disorder on the Pr site.

(iii) A further model based on the Hamiltonian of Fehrenbacher and Rice
was proposed by Wang _et al.[38]_ In their approach, three states are
competing close to the Fermi level: the ZR state, the FR state, and the
hole states of the CuO₃ chains. Upon increasing the Pr concentration to
x = 0.5 all of the holes residing on the ZR state are transferred to the
FR state. On further Pr doping, chain holes, too, are transferred

Figure 1: The unit cell of Pr_(x)Y_(1 − x)Ba₂Cu₃O₇. The CuO₂ planes and
the CuO₃ chains are emphasized by a gray shading. The Pr atom
substitutes directly on the Y site in the center of the unit cell.

to the FR state and, finally, for PrBa2Cu3O7 all holes reside on the FR
state and none are left in the chains.

A qualitative discussion of the electronic structure of
Pr_xY1-_z_Ba2Cu3O7 was given by Khomskii.39 He proposed a gradual charge
redistribution between planes and chains upon increasing Pr content.
Therefore, beyond a critical Pr concentration all the remaining holes
should reside on the chains–predominantly on the O(1) 2_p__y_
orbitals–and no holes should be left in the planes.

Lately, Blackstead and Dow suggested a model which is based on disorder
effects on the Ba site.40 They argue that, while superconductivity is
still present in the chains of ideal PrBa2Cu3O7, it is quenched in real
crystals by magnetic pair breaking due to Pr impurities on the Ba sites.

The aim of this paper is to distinguish between the various models by
carefully examining the electronic structure of PrBa2Cu3O7-_y_ close to
the Fermi level. For this, we have conducted O 1s near-edge x-ray
absorption fine structure (NEXAFS) studies of Pr_xY1-_z_Ba2Cu3O7-_y_.
Utilizing the linearly polarized character of synchrotron radiation we
took a critical look at the various models mentioned above. In
particular, if FR states do exist, NEXAFS should be well suited for
determining a rotation angle34 of the O(2,3) 2_p__p_ orbitals.

The paper is organized as follows: Section II covers sample preparation
and data collection. In Sec. III, we will expound the features of the
NEXAFS data after briefly reviewing the results of our neutron
diffraction measurements. Section IV discusses the implications of the
NEXAFS results and, finally, the conclusions are drawn in Sec. V.

## II Experiment

Pr_xY1-_z_Ba2Cu3O7-_y_ single crystals were grown using standard
methods. Full details of the growth process can be found in Refs. [41]
and [42]. The use of Al2O3 crucibles was avoided since they introduce Al
impurities of up to 50

Oxygen-deficient samples were obtained by annealing as-grown crystals of
the same batch at 650 degC in a vacuum of about 10-9 mbar for several
days. Subsequently, the oxygen content 7-_y_ was checked with optical
reflectivity measurements and was estimated to be 6.05 for
Pr0.8Y0.2Ba2Cu3O7-_y_ and 6.15 for YBa2Cu3O7-_y_.43 The oxygen-loaded
Pr_xY1-_z_Ba2Cu3O7-_y_ crystals were detwinned in a process similar to
the one for YBa2Cu3O7-_y_, which is discussed in detail
elsewhere.41,42,44 Well-reflecting flat (001) surfaces of the samples
were obtained by cutting off the crystals’ top layers using the diamond
knife of an ultramicrotome.

The neutron diffraction experiments were performed on larger, twinned
crystals from the same batches at the four-circle diffractometer 5C2 at
the Orphee reactor, Laboratoire Leon Brillouin, CE Saclay.45
Experimental details, like scan range adjustment in order to achieve a
complete integration over the typical multipeak structure of the twinned
crystals, background, absorption, and extinction treatments, are
discussed in Ref. [46]. For the structure refinement we used the
prometheus program package in a version for data sets obtained for
twinned crystals.47 The twinning leads to correlations between some u11
and u22 mean-square displacements, which were taken into consideration
by introducing constraints.

The O 1s absorption spectra48 were obtained using linearly polarized
synchrotron radiation from beamline U4B at the National Synchrotron
Light Source (NSLS), Brookhaven National Laboratory. For moderate photon
energies and a small extension of the core level transitions obeying
dipole selection rules dominate, and higher-order transitions can be
neglected. Applying dipole selection rules, the unoccupied part of the O
2p final states can be reached from the initial O 1s core level.
Therefore, polarization-dependent NEXAFS measurements on detwinned
single crystals provide insight into the symmetry of the hole states at
E_(F) and, thus, enable an estimate of the relative hole distribution
between the different O sites in the crystal structure. The latter is
possible if the binding energies for the various oxygen sites are taken
into account. In the setup used, a multielement Ge fluorescence detector
was placed at an angle of 55deg with respect to the incoming photon
beam. The samples were mounted on a manipulator allowing rotation around
the horizontal and vertical axes. The in-plane spectra (**E**∥_a_ and
**E**∥_b_) were obtained in a normal-incidence alignment. To fully
explore and separate out the orbital character and symmetry of the hole
states in the CuO2 planes, the measurements are best performed for many
different azimuthal sample orientations relative to the polarization
vector of the incoming light. Such a series of angle-dependent
measurements allows the correction of in-plane misalignment. In order to
reach out-of-plane orbitals, the samples were rotated to achieve angles
of incidence of 15deg, 30deg, 45deg, 65deg, and 80deg with respect to
the surface normal (grazing incidence). Such measurements are
indispensible to ensure that the light hits neither parts of the sample
holder nor the conducting glue. Furthermore, corrections for polar
misalignment are possible if grazing incidence measurements are carried
out at many different angles. According to

I(θ) = I_(∥)cos²(θ) + I_( ⊥ c)sin²(θ),

the **E**∥_c_ spectra were calculated by correcting for the
corresponding angle of incidence. The correction of spectra taken at
polar incidence angles of 45deg, 65deg, and 80deg led to nearly
identical results.

Since the probing depths for total electron yield and fluorescence yield
(FY) in the actual setup were approximately 50 and 600 A, respectively,
we have recorded the NEXAFS spectra in the FY detection mode to obtain
information about the bulk properties and to avoid problems associated
with surface sensitivity. However, FY spectra are affected by saturation
and self-absorption effects which cannot be ignored.[49, 50] The
incoming photon intensity is attenuated not only by the oxygen
absorption coefficient $\mu_{\rm oxy}(E)$, but also by the absorption
coefficient $\mu_{\rm bac}(E)$, of all the other elements in the sample.
The radiative filling of the O 1s core hole after the absorption process
results in the emission of fluorescence radiation. The intensity of this
emission process is proportional to $\mu_{\rm oxy}(E)$. On their way to
the sample surface the fluorescence x rays are attenuated by the total
absorption coefficient
$\mu_{\rm tot}(E_{f})\!=\!\mu_{\rm oxy}(E_{f})\!+\!\mu_{\rm bac}(E_{f})$
at the energy of the fluorescence radiation, E_(f). A simple calculation
shows that the normalized fluorescence intensity $\mu_{\rm FY}$ is given
by the relation

$$\mu_{\rm FY}\!\!=\!\frac{I_{f}(E)}{I_{0}(E)}\!\propto\!\frac{\mu_{\rm oxy}(E)} {\mu_{\rm tot}(E)/{\rm cos}\alpha\!+\!\mu_{\rm tot}(E_{f})/{\rm cos}\beta},$$
(2)

where I_(f)(E) is the intensity of the fluorescence radiation detected,
I₀(E) the primary intensity, α the angle between the incoming beam and
the sample normal, and β the angle between the sample normal and the
outgoing beam. In the limit of dilute samples the contribution of
$\mu_{\rm oxy}(E)$ to $\mu_{\rm tot}(E)$ is very small and, therefore,
$\mu_{\rm FY}(E)\!\propto\!\mu_{\rm oxy}(E)$. For
Pr_(x)Y_(1 − x)Ba₂Cu₃O_(7 − y) this is not the case, and we have
corrected our data for these effects. The spectra were normalized to the
tabulated standard absorption cross section[51, 52] in the energy range
590 eV  ≤ E≤ 600 eV. In this range the spectra are almost structureless
and the atomiclike spectral weight is only slightly modified by EXAFS
effects as shown for the ${\bf E}\|b$ spectra in Fig. 2, which is
representative for all polarizations. The energy resolution in our
measurements was about 220 meV at an incident photon energy of 530 eV
and the degree of linear polarization was estimated to be (97 ±1)

## III Results

Before addressing our NEXAFS results in the main body of this section,
we first evaluate the structural information obtained from neutron
diffraction: An important result is that there is no indication for any
Pr situated on the Ba position and any Ba situated on the Pr position in
our Pr_(0.8)Y_(0.2)Ba₂Cu₃O_(7 − y) single crystals. This follows from
two observations: First, the Ba atom is too large to occupy a R site.
Second, the Pr concentration revealed by EDX, 0.77, is in excellent
agreement with the neutron data if for the refinements Pr on Ba sites is
excluded and only Pr at Y sites is taken into account. Therefore, in
contrast to the models of Refs. [37] and [40], neither Pr atoms on the
Ba site nor Ba atoms on the Pr site are consistent with our results. The
structural parameters obtained from neutron diffraction measurements are
listed in Table 1. The results of the present investigation are in good
agreement with previously published neutron diffraction studies on
powder samples.[22, 23] Compared to YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − y), a shrinkage of the
Cu(2)-O(4) bond length is evident from our data while the Cu(2)-O(2,3)

Table 2: The hole distribution between the structural units of
Pr1−_x_’,Ba2Cu3O6.91 . The contributions n_(a), n_(a), and n_(c) are
obtained from the **E∥**_a_, **E∥**_b_ – **E∥**_a_, and **E∥**_c_ NEXAFS
spectra, respectively, and _n_tot is the total amount of holes observed
on all oxygen sites. For x = 0.0 and 0.4 the contribution 2_n__a_ is
ascribed to the ZR state. For x = 0.8 this contribution is ascribed to
the FR state plus a small amount of holes left in the ZR state due to
the 20

the ZR state into the energetically favored states on the low-energy
side of the UHB. These additional states are not hybridized with Cu. The
apical O(4) site remains essentially unaffected by Pr doping.

### Comparison with current models

Based on these quantifications we can finally examine the various models
mentioned in Sec. I. As we already pointed out in Sec. III, the model of
Ref. [40] fails to describe our results since disorder effects at the Ba
site are inconsistent with our neutron diffraction and EDX results.

It is also evident from the NEXAFS data that a gradual redistribution of
the doped holes from the CuO2 planes to the CuO3 chains as proposed in
Ref. [39] can be ruled out, too. Instead of a hole _increase_ on the
oxygen sites of the CuO3 chain, as expected in this model, we do in fact
observe a _decrease_ by 14

The rest of this section will be devoted to discussing aspects of a Pr
4_f_c(_x_2-_y_2)-O 2p hybridization [33, 37] and their consequences for
the electronic structure observed in NEXAFS. According to Fehrenbacher
and Rice, the substitution of Y by Pr causes the initially delocalized
holes to be moved from in-plane O(2,3) 2p, _orb_ orbitals to the O(2,3)
2p, _orb_ orbitals hybridized with the central Pr. [34] The UHB band
will then be visible since in this case there is no transfer of spectral
weight from the UHB to the ZR state (see Fig. 11). As already pointed
out above this lack of transfer of spectral weight is indeed observed in
our spectra. Therefore, we assume that the feature at 529.5 eV in the
**E**∥_a_ spectrum of Pr0.8Y0.2Ba2Cu3O6.91 is composed of an UHB like
that of Pr0.8Y0.2Ba2Cu3O6.05 plus possible FR states (Fig. 10). We will
now examine if the above-mentioned additional low-energy states are in
fact consistent with further characteristics of FR states. In the FR
model it was assumed that the O(2,3) 2p, _orb_ orbitals point towards
the central Pr ion, which means a rotation of the O 2p, _orb_ orbitals
of about 45deg. [34] Therefore, an _isotropic_[34] contribution from
in-plane transitions and from transitions perpendicular to the CuO2
planes should be observed if the FR states can be identified with the
additional states observed in the spectra. To obtain a numerical
estimate of these states, we have to take into consideration, that only
O 1_s_-O 2p2 transitions are allowed for **E**∥_c_ while, for **E**⊥_c_,
O 1_s_-O 2p, and O 1_s_-O 2p transitions are possible. This implies that
in the former case all orbitals are involved in the absorption process
but in the latter half the orbitals are oriented perpendicular to the
polarization vector of the synchrotron radiation. Hence, the difference
spectrum (Pr0.8Y0.2Ba2Cu3O6.91-Pr0.8Y0.2Ba2Cu3O6.05) for polarization
**E**∥_a_ has to be scaled by a factor of 2 in order to take all planar
contributions into account. The scaled difference spectrum is shown in
Fig. 12 together with the **E**∥_c_ spectrum of Pr0.8Y0.2Ba2Cu3O6.91.
The common area below both curves can be regarded as an upper limit for
isotropic Fehrenbacher-Rice states. [33, 34] The integrated area common
to both curves corresponds to 0.21 holes. This accounts for only half
the states since the orbitals are assumed to be rotated by 45deg.
Therefore, a total of 0.42 holes could reside on the possible FR state.
The peak of the **E**∥_c_ absorption spectrum amounting in total to 0.31
holes would then be composed of a FR component and a component due to
the apical oxygen which implies that 0.21 holes would correspond to the
FR state and only 0.10 holes would be left on the apical O(4) site.
Since we can exclude such a small number of holes on the apical O(4)
site if optical [32, 62] and NMR data [15, 63, 64] are taken into
account, this places an extra and quite tough constraint on the FR
state, which cannot be reconciled with the original FR approach (45deg
rotation of the O 2p, _orb_ orbitals).

Combining our results with optical data, [62] it is evident that the
reduction of holes residing on O sites of the chain takes place
predominantly on the O(1) site since the reduction by about 14

In contrast to the _isotropic_ FR state [34] suggested in the FR model,
[33] Liechtenstein and Mazin [37] (LM) proposed that the FR state which
grabs the holes has exclusively _planar_ character. They have calculated
the Pr-concentration-dependent number of holes in this planar FR state.
For Pr0.8Y0.2Ba2Cu3O7 they find 0.25 holes, exactly the value we observe
in the additional planar states on the low-energy side of the UHB (see
Fig. 10 and Table II). However, they consider a dispersive and
conducting _pd_, _orb_ band with a hopping integral t_(f), = 0.75 eV
between the FR state and Pr 4f orbitals. In order to obtain a narrow
band and, therefore, insulating behavior, they have to resort to strong
scattering

Figure 12: Comparison of the planar difference spectrum
2(Pr0.8Y0.2Ba2Cu3O6.91–Pr0.8Y0.2Ba2Cu3O6.68) and the **E**∥_c_ spectrum
of Pr0.8Y0.2Ba2Cu3O6.91. The area enclosed by both curves constitutes an
upper limit for _isotropic_ FR states.

effects due to more than 6

Based on the idea that the rotation angle may be situated somewhere
between the two suggested extremes of 0deg and 45deg, we propose a very
simple and straightforward extension of the original FR calculations.
For this extension, a simple dependence on the rotation angle is
introduced while all other results of Ref. 33 are retained unchanged.
According to this, the peak at 528.7 eV for **E**∥_a_ in Fig. 12
consists of holes in the FR state plus holes which remain in the ZR
state due to the Y fraction in the material, while the **E**∥_c_ feature
at 527.8 eV is composed of holes in the FR state plus holes on the
apical oxygen. By changing the rotation angle of the O(2,3) 2p orbitals
the contribution of the FR state to the **E**∥_c_ spectrum can then be
varied. We assume that for rotation angles +-45deg a FR state is still
possible. In the original FR model, the FR state with a rotation angle
of 45deg is stabilized if the hopping matrix element between O 2p and Pr
4f states, t_(f), is in the range 0.4-0.5 eV. This range of values for
t_(f) appears to be a sensible requirement for the stability of a FR
state at a rotation angle g 45deg as well. In other words, we consider
0.4 eVs≤t_(f) 0.5 eV as the criterion for a stable FR state for any
given rotation angle +-45deg, regardless of the maximum value that t_(f)
reaches around 45deg.

Moreover, we assume that all of the missing 0.18 holes in Pr0.8Y 0.2Ba
2Cu3O6.91 are transferred to Pr. Hence, consistent with the
Fehrenbacher-Rice model, [33] we ascribe a valence of +3.18 to Pr. For
our simple extension of the FR model up to n2R 0.2 holes were allowed in
the ZR state since 20

$$n_{\rm Pr} = n_{F}(2 - n_{f}),$$

$$n_{\rm FR} = n_{F}(n_{f} - 1),$$

$$2\,n_{a} = n_{\rm FR}{\rm cos}^{2} \gamma + n_{\rm ZR},$$

$$n_{c} = n_{\rm FR}{\rm sin}^{2} \gamma + n_{\rm apex},$$

$$n_{\rm Pr} + n_{\rm FR} + n_{\rm ZR} + n_{\rm apex} + n_{\rm chain} = 0.91,$$

where _n_Pr denotes the number of holes transferred to Pr, _n_FR the
number of holes situated on the O 2p orbitals, _n_F the density of Pr1V
ions, _n_f the number of Pr 4f electrons, g the rotation angle of the O
2p orbitals, _n_ZR the number of holes situated on the O 2p orbitals, n
apex the number of holes on the O(4) site, and _n_chain the number of
holes on the O(1) site. The results are depicted in Fig. 13. Using the
relationship between t_(f) and _n_f given in Table I of Ref. 33, the FR
state is stabilized for the solid curves (1.58<_n__f_<1.66). For the
dotted curves below the stable range the 4f occupation n_(f) is too
large (>1.66) and the corresponding t_(f) too small to stabilize the FR
state. In this case the superconducting solution, i.e., the ZR state, is
energetically favored. For the dotted curves above the stable range
(_n__f_<1.58) n_(F) becomes too small (<0.4), and at the same time the
hopping integral t_(f) required (>0.5 eV) becomes even harder to
reconcile with the insulating behavior observed. The restriction
"unchanged apical hole concentration" and the suggestion of a 45deg
rotation of the O(2,3) 2p orbitals are represented by dashed lines in
the figure. It is obvious from Fig. 13 that one can have a stable FR
state and an unchanged apical hole concentration at the same time if the
O(2,3) 2p orbitals are rotated out of the plane by just about
20deg-25deg.

This result differs from the proposed extremes of 45deg rotation in the
FR model and of 0deg rotation in the LM approach. However, the NEXAFS
data are consistent with a Pr 4_f_z_(_z_’2-_y_’) -O 2p hybridization and
indicate a rotation angle of the O 2p orbitals that is situated in the
middle of the proposed ones.

## V Conclusions

In summary, we have conducted NEXAFS and neutron diffraction
measurements on Pr1-_x_Y_xBa 2Cu3O7-_y_ single crystals with different
Pr and O concentrations. The main result of our investigations is that
we can rule out models involving hole filling or charge transfer between
the planes and the chains while our data are consistent with approaches
based upon Pr 4_f_-O(2,3) 2p hybridization. From our measurements the
following picture for the electronic structure of Pr1-_x_Y_xBa 2Cu3O6.91
arises: Due to Pr doping of YBa2Cu3O6.91, at first about 0.2 holes are
lost from the O

Figure 13: Test of the Fehrenbacher-Rice model. The apical hole
concentration is depicted as a function of the rotation angle of the
O(2,3) 2p orbitals, as calculated from Eq. (3) (in the text). NEXAFS
results of this work are incorporated (see text).

subsystem and presumably transferred from O(1) and O(2,3) sites to the
Pr atom. On further doping the additional states on the low-energy side
of the UHB are stabilized and about 0.3 holes are transferred from the
energetically competing ZR state to these additional states. If the
additional states are interpreted as FR states, they neither have the
proposed rotation angle of 45deg (FR model) nor do they show exclusively
planar character (LM approach); rather, the O(2,3) 2_p__(π) orbitals are
rotated by an angle of about 20deg-25deg. Therefore, for
Pr0.8Y0.2Ba2Cu3O6.9i about _n_${}_{\rm apex}$+ _n_${}_{\rm chain}$=0.5
holes still reside on the oxygen chain sites, _n_${}_{\rm Pr}$∼ 0.2
holes are presumably transferred to the Pr atom, and
_n_${}_{\rm FR}$∼0.3 holes are moved from the ZR state into the
energetically favored FR states. Following the arguments of Fehrenbacher
and Rice[33] and those of Liechtenstein and Mazin[37], it is likely that
an enhanced t_(f) for Pr as compared to other rare earths or Y combined
with favorable values of t_(f) and U_(f) is responsible for the
stability of the FR state. The discrepancy in the rotation angle of the
_p__(π) orbitals between our NEXAFS data and theory may be due to the
fact that in the calculations of Ref. 33 possible effects of the copper
potentials on the Pr 4_f_−O(2,3) 2_p__(π) hybridized state are
neglected, and that in Ref. 37 correlation effects on the copper sites
are disregarded.

###### Acknowledgements.

We are grateful to K. Widder and H. P. Geserich for performing the
optical reflectivity measurements on oxygen-deficient
Pr__(x)Y_1_(−x)Ba2Cu3O7-y and for stimulating discussions. We greatly
appreciate fruitful discussions with R. Fehrenbacher and I. Mazin. We
thank H. Winter, B. Seibel, E. Seibel, and S.-L. Drechsler for
clarifying comments about theoretical aspects, B. Scheerer for his
excellent technical support, and E. Sohmen and J.-H. Park for their
experimental assistance. We are indebted to G. Meigs for his very
generous help in sorting out technical difficulties. P. Adelmann
provided valuable insight into the chemistry of impurities. The NSLS is
part of Brookhaven National Laboratory, which is funded by the U.S. DOE.
Part of this work was supported by the EU under Contract No. SCI
CT91-0751 and the HCM network under Contract No. ERB CH RXCT 940438.
V.C. was supported by the Office of Naval Research. M.S.G. is grateful
for support from the HCM program of the EU.

## References

* [1] J. G. Bednorz and K. A. Muller, Z. Phys. B **64**, 189 (1986). *
[2] M. K. Wu, I. R. Ashburn, C. J. Torng, P. H. Hor, R. L. Meng, L. Gao,
Z. J. Huang, Y. Q. Wang, and C. W. Chu, Phys. Rev. Lett. **58**, 908
(1987). * [3] Z. Fisk, J. D. Thompson, E. Zirngiebl, J. L. Smith, and
S.-W. Cheong, Solid State Commun. **62**, 743 (1987). * [4] P. H. Hor,
R. L. Meng, Y. Q. Wang, L. Gao, Z. J. Huang, J. Bechtold, K. Forster,
and C. W. Chu, Phys. Rev. Lett. **58**, 1891 (1987). * [5] M. B. Maple,
Y. Dalichaouch, J. M. Ferreira, R. R. Hake, B. W. Lee, J. J. Neumeier,
M. S. Torkachvili, K. N. Yang, H. Zhou, R. P. Guertin, and M. V. Kuric,
Physica B **148**, 155 (1987), and references therein. * [6] Y.
Dalichaouch, M. S. Torkachvili, E. A. Early, B. W. Lee, C. L. Seaman, K.
N. Yang, H. Zhou, and M. B. Maple, Solid State Commun. **65**, 1001
(1988). * [7] B. Fisher, J. Genossar, L. Patlagan, and J. Ashkenazi,
Phys. Rev. B **43**, 2821 (1991). * [8] A. Matsuda, K. Kinoshita, T.
Ishii, H. Shibata, T. Watanabe, and T. Yamada, Phys. Rev. B **38**, 2910
(1988). * [9] A. P. Goncalves, I. C. Santos, E. B. Lopes, R. T.
Henriques, and M. Almeida, Phys. Rev. B **37**, 7476 (1988). * [10] Z.
Quirui, Z. H. Zhenhui, Z. Han, X. Jiansheng, W. Shenxi, and F. Minghu,
Physica C **162-164**, 963 (1989). * [11] L. Soderholm, K. Zhang, D. G.
Hinks, M. A. Beno, J. D. Jorgensen, C. U. Segre, and I. K. Schuller,
Nature **328**, 604 (1987). * [12] A. Kebede, C. S. Jee, J. Schwegler,
J. E. Crow, T. Mihalisin, G. H. Myer, R. E. Salomon, P. Schlottmann, M.
V. Kuric, S. H. Bloom, and R. P. Guertin, Phys. Rev. B **40**, 4453
(1989). * [13] J. L. Peng, P. Klavins, R. N. Shelton, H. B. Radousky, P.
A. Hahn, and L. Bernardez, Phys. Rev. B **40**, 4517 (1989). * [14] J.
J. Neumeier, Ph.D. thesis, University of California, San Diego, 1990. *
[15] A. P. Reyes, D. E. MacLaughlin, M. Takigawa, P. C. Hammel, R. H.
Heffner, J. D. Thompson, J. E. Crow, A. Kebede, T. Mihalisin, and J.
Schwegler, Phys. Rev. B **42**, 2688 (1990); A. P. Reyes, D. E.
MacLaughlin, M. Takigawa, P. C. Hammel, R. H. Heffner, J. D. Thompson,
and J. E. Crow, _ibid._**43**, 2989 (1991). * [16] D. W. Cooke, R. S.
Kwok, R. L. Lichti, T. R. Adams, C. Boekema, W. K. Dawson, A. Kebede, J.
Schwegler, J. E. Crow, and T. Mihalisin, Phys. Rev. B **41**, 4801
(1990); D. W. Cooke, M. S. Jahan, R. S. Kwok, R. L. Lichti, T. R. Adams,
C. Boekema, W. K. Dawson, A. Kebede, J. Schwegler, J. E. Crow, and T.
Mihalisin, Hyperfine Interact. **63**, 213 (1990). * [17] I. Felner, U.
Yaron, I. Nowik, E. R. Bauminger, Y. Wolfus, E. R. Yacoby, G. Hilscher,
and N. Pillmayr, Phys. Rev. B **40**, 6739 (1989). * [18] K. Nehrke, M.
W. Pieper, and T. Wolf, Phys. Rev. B **53**, 1 (1996); K. Nehrke and M.
W. Pieper, Phys. Rev. Lett. **76**, 1936 (1996). * [19] D. P. Norton, D.
H. Lowndes, B. C. Sales, J. D. Budai, B. C. Chakoumakos, and H. R.
Kerchner, Phys. Rev. Lett. **66**, 1537 (1991). * [20] N. Nucker, J.
Fink, J. C. Fuggle, P. J. Durham, and W. M. Temmerman, Phys. Rev. B
**37**, 5158 (1988). * [21] J. Fink, N. Nucker, E. Pellegrin, H.
Romberg, M. Alexander, and M. Knupfer, J. Electron Spectrosc. Relat.
Phenom. **66**, 395 (1994). * [22] J. J. Neumeier, T. Bjornholm, M. B.
Maple, J. J. Rhyne, and J. A. Goates, Physica C **166**, 191 (1990). *
[23] M. Guillaume, P. Allenspach, J. Mesot, B. Roessli, U. Staub, P.
Fisher, and A. Furrer, Z. Phys. B **90**, 13 (1993). * [24] M. E.
Lopez-Morales, D. Rios-Jara, J. Taguena, R. Escudero, S. La Placa, A.
Bezinge, V. Y. Lee, E. M. Engler, and P. M. Grant, Phys. Rev. B **41**,
6655 (1990). * [25] L. Soderholm, C.-K. Loong, G. I. Goodman, and B. D.
Dabrowski, Phys. Rev. B **43**, 7923 (1991). * [26] G. Hilscher, E.
Holland-Moritz, T. Holubar, H.-D. Jostrandt, V. Nekvasil, G. Schaudy, U.
Walter, and G. Fillion, Phys. Rev. B **49**, 535 (1994). * [27] G. Y.
Guo and W. M. Temmerman, Phys. Rev. B **41**, 6372 (1990).

* (28) J. S. Kang, J. W. Allen, Z.-X. Shen, W. P. Ellis, J. J. Yeh, B.
W. Lee, M. B. Maple, W. E. Spicer, and I. Lindau, J. Less Common Met.
**148**, 121 (1989). * (29) S. Horn, J. Cai, S. A. Shaheen, Y. Jeon, M.
Croft, C. L. Chang, and M. L. den Boer, Phys. Rev. B **36**, 3895
(1987). * (30) U. Neukirch, C. T. Simmons, D. Sladeczek, C. Laubschat,
O. Strebel, G. Kaindl, and D. D. Sarma, Europhys. Lett. **5**, 567
(1988). * (31) J. Fink, N. Nucker, H. Romberg, M. Alexander, M. B.
Maple, J. J. Neumeier, and J. W. Allen, Phys. Rev. B **42**, 4823
(1990). * (32) K. Takenaka, Y. Imanaka, K. Tamasaku, T. Ito, and S.
Uchida, Phys. Rev. B **46**, 5833 (1992). * (33) R. Fehrenbacher and T.
M. Rice, Phys. Rev. Lett. **70**, 3471 (1993). * (34) We denote by "O
2_p_"’ those orbitals on the O(2,3) sites that are perpendicular to the
ones pointing towards the Cu(2) atoms (O 2_p_). In the spirit of Refs.
[33] and [37], we regard as the "FR state" the oxygen contribution to
the Pr 4_f_z(2-_y_2)-(_a_1|O 2_p_x)+_a_2|O 2_p_y)+_a_2|O 2_p_y)
hybridization. In Ref. [33], the coefficients a1, a2, and a3 are chosen
in such a way that the O 2_p__(π) hybrids which are s bonded to the Pr
4_f_z(2-_y_2) state have an out-of-plane character equal in magnitude to
their in-plane character. This can be visualized by a 45deg "rotation
angle" of the O 2_p__(π) hybrids toward the plane, and it is in this
sense that we will be using the expression "rotation angle" throughout
this paper. By the same token, the FR state as proposed in Ref. [33],
i.e., with a rotation angle of 45deg, will be referred to as an
"isotropic" FR state. * (35) F. C. Zhang and T. M. Rice, Phys. Rev. B
**37**, 3759 (1987). * (36) Magnetic interactions have been thought to
be responsible for splitting off the so-called Zhang-Rice singlet from
the valence band in the following way: Strong hybridization between Cu
3_d_z_2-_y_2 and O 2_p__(x, y) orbitals leads to interaction of the spin
of an intrinsic hole on a Cu(2) site and the spin of a doped hole on the
four surrounding O(2,3) sites. For antiparallel spin orientation, the
Zhang-Rice singlet is pushed out of the valence band. Since this is a
widespread interpretation, we will adopt the notation "ZR state" for the
uppermost part of the valence band although our experiments cannot
provide any insight into its magnetic interaction. * (37) A. I.
Liechtenstein and I. I. Mazin, Phys. Rev. Lett. **74**, 1000 (1995). *
(38) Y. Wang, H. Rushan, and Z.-B. Su, Phys. Rev. B **50**, 10 350
(1994). * (39) D. Khomskii, J. Supercond. **6**, 69 (1993). * (40) H. A.
Blackstead and J. D. Dow, Phys. Rev. B **51**, 11 830 (1995). * (41) A.
Erb, T. Biemath, and G. Muller-Vogt, J. Cryst. Growth **132**, 389
(1993); A. Erb, T. Traulsen, and G. Muller-Vogt, _ibid._**137**, 487
(1994). * (42) A. Erb, E. Walker, and R. Flukiger, Physica C **245**,
245 (1995); **258**, 9 (1996). * (43) K. Widder and H. P. Geserich
(private communication). * (44) A. Zibold, M. Durrler, H. P. Geserich,
A. Erb, and G. Muller-Vogt, Physica C **171**, 151 (1990). * (45)
Laboratoire commun CEA-CNRS. * (46) P. Schweiss, W. Reichardt, M.
Braden, G. Collin, G. Heger, H. Claus, and A. Erb, Phys. Rev. B **49**,
1387 (1994). * (47) U. H. Zucker, E. Perenthaler, W. F. Kuhs, R.
Bachmann, and H. Schulz, J. Appl. Crystallogr. **16**, 358 (1983). *
(48) We note that an inspection of the Pr _M_${}_{\rm IV,V}$ edges
cannot add any further information or significance to O K results: (a)
The interference of the Pr _M_${}_{\rm IV}$ and _M_${}_{\rm V}$ edges
with the Cu _L_${}_{\rm II}$ and _L_${}_{\rm III}$ edges, respectively,
renders a deconvolution of these structures impossible. (b) Even without
this interference a cross-examination of the O K results would not be
reliable since the Pr M features correspond to 12 holes in the f shell
of Pr³⁺, not to just about one as for the O K edge. The amount of, say,
0.2 holes added to or removed from the edge structure constitutes a
substantial fraction of the O K edge while it is a mere 2 * (49) L.
Troger, D. Arvanitis, K. Baberschke, H. Michaelis, U. Grimm, and E.
Zschech, Phys. Rev. B **46**, 3283 (1992). * (50) S. Eisebitt, T. Boske,
J.-E. Rubensson, and W. Eberhardt, Phys. Rev. B **47**, 14 103 (1993). *
(51) J. J. Yeh and I. Lindau, At. Data Nucl. Data Tables **32**, 1
(1985). * (52) W. J. Veigele, _Handbook of Spectroscopy_ (CRC Press,
Cleveland, 1974), Vol. 1, p. 28. * (53) O. Cohen, F. H. Potter, C. S.
Rastomjee, and R. G. Egdell, Physica C **201**, 58 (1992). * (54) N.
Nucker, H. Romberg, X. X. Xi, J. Fink, B. Gegenheimer, and Z. X. Zhao,
Phys. Rev. B **39**, 6619 (1989). * (55) W. E. Pickett, Rev. Mod. Phys.
**61**, 433 (1989). * (56) J. Zaanen, M. Aluani, and O. Jepsen, Phys.
Rev. B **40**, 837 (1989). * (57) W. Y. Ching, G.-L. Zhao, Y.-N. Xu, and
K. W. Wong, Phys. Rev. B **43**, 6159 (1991). * (58) N. Nucker, E.
Pellegrin, P. Schweiss, J. Fink, S. L. Molodtsov, C. T. Simmons, G.
Kaindl, W. Frentrup, A. Erb, and G. Muller-Vogt, Phys. Rev. B **51**,
8529 (1995). * (59) A. Hartmann and G. J. Russell, Solid State Commun.
**95**, 791 (1995); **90**, 745 (1994); **89**, 77 (1994). * (60) H.
Eskes, M. B. Meinders, and G. A. Sawatzky, Phys. Rev. Lett. **67**, 1035
(1991). * (61) M. B. Meinders, H. Eskes, and G. A. Sawatzky, Phys. Rev.
B **48**, 3916 (1993). * (62) K. Widder, M. Merz, D. Berner, J. Munzel,
H. P. Geserich, A. Erb, R. Flukiger, W. Widder, and H. F. Braun, Physica
C **264**, 11 (1996). * (63) Y. H. Ko, H. K. Kweon, H. C. Lee, and N. H.
Hur, Physica C **224**, 357 (1994). * (64) H. Lutgemeier and I. Heinmaa,
in _Proceedings of the 26th Zakopane Summer School on Physics_, edited
by J. Stanek and A. T. Pedziwiatr (World Scientific, Singapore, 1991),
p. 264.
