Dirac fermions and superconductivity in the homologous structures
(Ag_(x)Pb_(1 − x)Se₅)₃(Bi₂Se₃)_(3m) (m = 1, 2)

L. Fang

lei.fang@northwestern.edu Department of Chemistry, Northwestern
University, Evanston, Illinois 60208, USA Materials Science Division,
Argonne National Laboratory, Argonne, Illinois 60439, USA Department of
Physics and Astronomy, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois
60208, USA

C. C. Stoumpos

Materials Science Division, Argonne National Laboratory, Argonne,
Illinois 60439, USA

Y. Jia

Department of Physics and Astronomy, Northwestern University, Evanston,
Illinois 60208, USA

A. Glatz

Materials Science Division, Argonne National Laboratory, Argonne,
Illinois 60439, USA Department of Physics and Astronomy, Northwestern
University, Evanston, Illinois 60208, USA

D. Y. Chung

Materials Science Division, Argonne National Laboratory, Argonne,
Illinois 60439, USA

H. Claus

Materials Science Division, Argonne National Laboratory, Argonne,
Illinois 60439, USA

U. Welp

Materials Science Division, Argonne National Laboratory, Argonne,
Illinois 60439, USA

W.-K. Kwok

Materials Science Division, Argonne National Laboratory, Argonne,
Illinois 60439, USA

M. G. Kanatzidis

Department of Physics and Astronomy, Northwestern University, Evanston,
Illinois 60208, USA Department of Physics and Astronomy, Northwestern
University, Evanston, Illinois 60208, USA

###### Abstract

A newly discovered topological insulator (TI)
(Ag_(x)Pb_(1 − x)Se₅)₃(Bi₂Se₃)_(3m) (m = 2) has a band gap of 0.5 eV,
the largest value reported in topological insulators. We present a
magnetotransport study of the Dirac electrons of this compound in the
quantum diffusion regime. Two-dimensional weak antilocalization due to
the destructive interference of the Dirac electrons was observed. The
phase coherence length of the Dirac electrons is independent of doping
and disorder levels. This provides an indication of the backscattering
immunity under the protection of time reversal invariance of the TI. We
further report that the homologous compound
(Ag_(x)Pb_(1 − x)Se₅)₃(Bi₂Se₃)_(3m) (m = 1) is a superconductor with a
transition temperature T_(C) = 1.7 K. The related structures of these
two phases allow lateral intergrowth of crystals to occur naturally,
offering a potential platform to observe the Majorana fermion state at
the boundary of two intergrown crystals.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.90.020504 PACS number(s): 73.20.At, 74.10.+v The
observation of novel quantum phenomena in topological insulators (TIs)
is closely related to the discovery of new materials [1, 2, 3, 4].
Numerous advances on TIs [5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10], both theoretical and
experimental, were based on two binary bismuth compounds, Bi₂Se₃ and
Bi₂Te₃. Material tailoring of Bi₂Se₃ with other structures can produce
new phases that host topological states [11, 12, 13, 14]. One example is
the homologous series of layered structures of (PbSe)₅(Bi₂Se₃)_(3m)
(m = 1, 2), and the presence of a Dirac cone in the m = 2 phase coupled
with a large band gap of 0.5 eV [16]. Knowledge about this material,
however, is very limited. Here we report on magnetotransport
measurements of single crystal m = 1 and m = 2 phases. The latter
exhibits two-dimensional (2D) weak antilocalization (WAL) due to the
destructive interference of the Dirac electrons. The phase coherence
length of the Dirac electrons is independent of doping and disorder
levels, indicating the backscatter immunity of the TI m = 2 phase.
Moreover, the m = 1 phase is a superconductor with a critical transition
temperature of T_(C) = 1.7 K. The homologous structures of these two
phases allow intergrowth of crystals to occur naturally. We thus propose
a possibility to observe the Majorana fermion state at the boundary of
two intergrown crystals.

The self-flux method was applied for single crystal synthesis. Nominal
compositions of the starting materials are Ag_(x)Pb₅Bi₄Se₁₄ and
Ag_(x)PbBi₄Se₇ for the m = 1 and m = 2 phases, respectively. Intergrowth
of the m = 1 and m = 2 phases was generally observed for crystals with
sizes of larger than half a millimeter. However, phase-pure crystals
with in-plane dimensions of 300-400 μm² can be separated from the ingot.
Single crystal diffraction was carried out on a STOE Imaging Plate
Diffraction Systems (IPDS) II diffractometer. Structure solution and
refinement was conducted using the shell-97. Magnetization measurements
were carried out using a homemade low-field (0.1 G) superconducting
quantum interference device (SQUID) magnetometer operating at
temperatures down to 1.2 K. Single crystals with thicknesses 7-40 μm
were cut into rectangular shapes for both in-plane and c-axis transport
characterization. The in-plane characterization adopts the standard four
probe method with contacts featuring a Hall bar geometry. As for the
c-axis measurements, two separated contacts were painted on both sides
of a crystal. The current contacts spread over a large area of the
cleaved surface to keep a uniform current flow in the normal direction.
The voltage contacts were strictly aligned to avoid in-plane conduction.
Transport measurements were conducted in a liquid ⁴He variable
temperature cryostat equipped with a triple-axis vector magnet system
(AMI) for accurate field orientations. Superconducting transitions were
measured in a liquid ³He cryostat.

The structures of (PbSe)₅(Bi₂Se₃)_(3m) (m = 1, 2) are stacks of layers
of two building blocks [PbSe] and [Bi₂Se₃], as shown in Figs. 1(b) and
1(c). The value of m designates the number of [Bi₂Se₅] sheets that are
sandwiched by consecutive [PbSe] slabs. The [Bi₂Se₃] sheet is hexagonal
and is the same as a quintuple layer (QL) of Tl Bi₂Se₃. The [PbSe] sheet
has tetragonal symmetry and is a two-atom-thick slice from the
face-centered-cubic (fcc) structured PbSe. The lattice mismatch between
[Bi₂Se₃] and [PbSe] produces a stress that strongly distors the slab of
[PbSe] along the c axis for both homologous phases. The m = 1 phase
features a large number of chemical bonds with a length of 3.25 A
between the [PbSe] and [Bi₂Se₃] sheets creating a three-dimensional (3D)
structure. In the m = 2 phase, the two adjacent QLs II and III are
connected by van der Waals bonding [see Fig. 1(c)]. This weak bonding
relaxes the stress and preserves the uniformity of the [Bi₂Se₅] sheets.
Crystal cleaving always occurs along the van der Waals plane and exposes
an ideal surface of Bi₂Se₃ with Dirac fermions residing on it. By
contrast, the m = 1 phase appears not to be a TI phase. As a matter of
fact, angle resolved photoemission spectroscopy (ARPES) measurements
observed a Dirac cone in (PbSe)₃(Bi₂Se₃)₆, in contrast to a regular band
structure for (PbSe)₃(Bi₂Se₃)₅[16]. To explain the different electronic
structures, a scenario of topological phase transition has been proposed
[16]. Here we further show that transition metals such as silver can
replace in part Pb atoms in the structure up to levels of 25

Our single crystal x-ray diffraction analysis detected unusually weak
thermal displacement factors at the Se sites, suggesting Se vacancies in
the m = 2 phase (see the Supplemental Material [17]). These vacancies
donate electrons and elevate the Fermi level (E_(F)) toward the bottom
of the conduction band. Both the temperature dependent resistivity of
(PbSe)₅(Bi₂Se₃)₆ and Ag-doped (Ag_(0.2)Pb_(0.8)Se)₃(Bi₂Se₃)₆ exhibit
semimetal behavior and moderately high residual resistivity [Fig. 1(d)].
The Hall resistances of the m = 2 phases exhibit nonlinear field
dependence [Fig. 2(a)], suggesting that multiple types of carriers
contribute to the transport processes, which, in our case, are the Dirac
fermions on the surface and conventional electrons in the bulk. The
carrier concentrations (n) of the two groups of electrons in a multiband
system cannot be directly resolved by magnetotransport [18].
Approximately, the effective n of the bulk band is estimated using
R_(xy)(B = 2 T) as 1.5-2 × 10²⁰/cm³ for the m = 2 phase. Silver doping
donates holes and reduces the n to 5-7 × 10¹⁹/cm³ for
(Ag_(0.2)Pb_(0.8)Se)₃(Bi₂Se₃)₆.

Magnetoresistance (MR) measurements were conducted on bulk crystals of
the m = 2 phase in tilted magnetic fields. As shown in Fig. 2(b), MR
values for different tilted fields feature a cusp-shape curvature, a
hallmark of WAL [19]. In the quantum diffusion regime, electrons can be
localized due to the phase interference between a closed Feynman path
and its time-reversal path. In TIs [20; 21; 22; 23], both the π-Berry’s
phase of the Dirac electrons and the strong spin-orbit coupling (SOC)
can destroy the phase interference and result in WAL. In addition to the
WAL, the m = 2 phase exhibits weak anisotropy (Γ). The MR (at θ = 0^(∘),
μ₀H = 0.4 T) is twice that of the MR (at θ = 90^(∘), μ₀H = 0.4 T),
leading to Γ ≈ 2. θ is the angle between the field and the c axis. The
weakly anisotropic MR is consistent with the resistivity anisotropy

Figure 2: (Color online) (a) Hall coefficient measurements of the m = 2
phase at 2 K exhibit a nonlinear field dependence. The inset
schematically shows the coexistence of surface (SB) and bulk bands (CB).
(b) MR measurement of bulk crystal (PbSe)₃(Bi₂Se)₆ at 2 K in tilted
magnetic fields. (c) 2D scaling of the magnetoconductance of crystal
(PbSe)₃(Bi₂Se)₃. The inset is a schematic picture of our angle dependent
magnetoconductance measurements. (d) The scaled ΔG of two crystals (No.
1, No. 2) of (PbSe)₃(Bi₂Se)₃₆ and of a silver-doped crystal (m = 2,
x = 0.2), in magnetic fields along the c axis. The solid curve is a
fitting using the HLN equation.

Figure 1: (Color online) (a) Schematic pictures of the crystal symmetry
of (PbSe)₃(Bi₂Se)₃_(m) (m = 1, 2) and of a Dirac cone in the band
structure of the m = 2 phase. (b) Structure of two unit cells of the
m = 1 phase. The thickness of [PbSe] is ∼2.8 Å. [PbSe] and [Bi₂Se₃] are
connected by chemical bonds. (c) Structure of one unit cell of the m = 2
phase. Bonds between QL-II and QL-III are of van der Waals type. Silver
can replace Pb ions in the [PbSe] slabs. (d) Temperature dependent
μ_(ab) of (Ag_(b)Pb_(1 − x)Se)₃(Bi₂Se)₃₆ (x = 0, 0.2) and
(Ag_(0.2)Pb_(0.8)Se)₃(Bi₂Se₃)₃. (e) Temperature dependent ρ_(c) of the
m = 2 phase. The resistivity anisotropies Γ = ρ_(c)/ρ_(ab) at 2 K are
25(±3) and 28(±3) for doping x = 0 and 0.2, respectively.

ρ_(c)/ρ_(ab) ≃ 28. To unify, we define that the anisotropy of the m = 2
phase is moderate. Our determination agrees with the 3D classification
of the m = 2 phase in the review article [4].

The WAL induced magnetoconductance (G) near zero field can be
experimentally obtained from ΔG(B) = 1/R(B) − 1/R(0), and its angular
dependence can be obtained from
ΔG(B, θ) = 1/R(B, θ) − 1/R(B, 90^(∘))[22]. R(B, 90^(∘)) is the
resistance when the field is parallel to the in-plane current. Figure
2(c) depicts the field dependent magnetoconductance of a bulk crystal
(PbSe)₅(Bi₂Se)₃6 at 2 K in various magnetic field directions. The
magnetoconductance measured at various angles collapses onto one single
curve when using the normal component of the applied field as the
coordinate. This scaling unveils the two-dimensional (2D) character of
the WAL. 2D WAL was also observed in the silver-doped m = 2 phase (see
the Supplemental Material [17]). The 2D magnetoconductance is not likely
to arise from the moderately anisotropic bulk. Given the TI nature of
the m = 2 phase, we associate the 2D WAL with the topological surface
states. It is noticed that the absolute values of G in Fig. 2(c) is 50
times greater than the conductance quantum 2e²/h, pointing out multiple
surface channels in our samples. These unexpected surface channels may
be an indication of the proposed interface topological states [16].
However, defects such as the microscopic cracks in layered bulk crystals
can also locally produce surface states and lead to this phenomenon as
well. These multiple surface conducting channels tend to amplify the
signal of one topological surface state and manifest their conducting
weight in the total conductance despite the presence of a large amount
of bulk electrons.

In order to more qualitatively understand the 2D WAL, the conductance of
two crystals of the m = 2 phase and one doped specimen (m = 2, x = 0.2)
were scaled to conductance quantum. Here, we assume that the 2D
conducting channels in one crystal are identical and each channel
carries one conductance quantum. The distinction between the top and
bottom surface states of a TI thin film [21], possibly due to the
substrate effect, is not included in our discussion. As shown in Fig.
2(d), it is striking that the WAL of different samples and doping levels
can be scaled onto one curve over a field range from −0.4 to 0.4 T,
indicating that a robust transport mechanism governs the m = 2 phase.
The curvature of WAL is described by the phase coherence length
[19]$l_{\varphi}=\sqrt{D\tau_{\varphi}}$, where the diffusion constant
$D=\frac{1}{4}v_{F}{}^{2}\tau_{c}$, d is dimension, v_(F) denotes the
Fermi velocity, τ_(c) is elastic scattering time, and τ_(φ) represents
dephasing time. This scaling unveils that the l_(φ) are virtually
independent of the specifics of the sample. To obtain a constant value
of l_(φ), both D and τ_(φ) have to be invariant. This observation can
only be understood in the context of topological insulators. Since the
Dirac dispersion relation is linear, E(k) ∼ k, v_(F) of the Dirac
electrons is independent of E_(F) and the doping level. τ_(φ) is
retained because backscattering is forbidden due to time reversal
invariance [22, 24, 25]. τ_(φ) is not drastically altered unless
magnetic impurities are present. Our experiments hence provide an
indication of backscattering immunity in TI (PbSe)₅(Bi₂Se)₃6 and
Ag-doped samples.

The solid curve in Fig. 2(d) is a 2D fitting using the
Hikami-Larkin-Nagaoka (HLN) theory [26]. Assuming that the inelastic
scattering time is much longer than both spin-orbit and elastic
scattering time, the equation of the WAL can be written as

$$\Delta\sigma(B)\cong-\sigma\frac{e^{2}}{\pi h}\left[\Psi\left(\frac{1}{2}+ \frac{B_{\varphi}}{B}\right)-\ln\left(\frac{B_{\varphi}}{B}\right)\right],$$
(1)

where α = 1/2. Ψ(z) is the digamma function. B_(φ) = h/4el_(φ)² is the
characteristic field. h is the reduced Planck constant. The obtained
B_(φ) is about 0.007 T and l_(φ) ≈ 160 nm, comparable to the reported
value of 310 nm in TI Bi₂Te₃[22]. The 2D fitting, together with the
observation of 2D magnetoconductance, the signature of backscattering
immunity, and nonlinear Hall resistance, are fully consistent with the
topological surface state of the material
(Ag_(x)Pb_(1 − x)Se)₅(Bi₂Se)₃) of x > 0.25, the structure of
(Ag_(x)Pb_(1 − x)Se)₃(Bi₂Se₃)₃ becomes unstable. The highest T_(C) is
1.7 K. In order to determine the upper critical fields (H_(C2)) and
superconducting anisotropy (γ), we suppressed the superconductivity by
applying magnetic fields in plane and out of plane, as shown in Figs.
3(c) and 3(d). Using 90

The superconducting (Ag_(x)Pb_(1 − x)Se)₃(Bi₂Se₃)₃ and the TI character
of (Ag_(x)Pb_(1 − x)Se)₃(Bi₂Se₃)₆ may provide an opportunity to detect
Majorana fermions at the interface of these two phases [32]. Because of
the very close matching of in-plane lattice parameters (see the
Appendix), the (Ag_(x)Pb_(1 − x)Se)₃(Bi₂Se₃)₃ crystals can be easily
intergrown with crystals of (Ag_(x)Pb_(1 − x)Se)₃(Bi₂Se₃)₆ with limited
strain. This creates a natural interface between a superconductor and a
topological insulator. Taking advantage of the proximity effect,
superconductivity can transform some of the Dirac fermions of the
topological state into an Andreev surface state [32]. Hence, Majorana
fermions could be observable at the boundary of the
(Ag_(x)Po_(10 − x)Se)₃(Bi₂Se₃)₃ and the (Ag_(x)Po_(x)Sb_(x)Se)₃(Bi₂Se₃)₆
domains. The interface of the intergrown samples was imaged with
polarized light on a cleaved surface of a superconducting crystal. As
shown in Fig. 4(a), two domains with distinct cleavage morphologies were
observed to grow together. The domain boundary is uniform and may allow
local detection techniques.

In conclusion, 2D WAL behaviors exist in TI
(Ag_(x)Pb_(1 − x)Se)₃(Bi₂Se₃)₆. A scaling law of the WAL for different
doping and impurity levels indicates the backscattering immunity of this
TI. We further report that the homologous compound
(Ag_(x)Pb_(1 − x)Se)₃(Bi₂Se₃)₃ is a superconductor with a transition
temperature T_(C) = 1.7 K. The related structures of these two phases
allow lateral intergrowth of crystals to occur naturally, offering a
potential platform to observe the Majorana fermion state at the boundary
of two intergrown crystals.

We are grateful to L. Bouchard and Kang L. Wang for useful discussions.
This research was supported by the Defense Advanced Research Project
Agency (DARPA), Award No. N66001-12-1-4034. Transport and magnetization
measurements were supported by the Department of Energy, Office of Basic
Energy Sciences, under Contract No. DE-AC02-06CH11357 (D.Y., C.C.S.,
Y.J., H.C., A.G., U.W., W.K.K.).

## Appendix

Crystal data: (1)(PbSe)₃(Bi₂Se)₃, monoclinic, space group C₂m,
c = 52.918(10) A, γ = 90.00^(∘), b = 4.1774(8) A, β = 107.224(3)^(∘),
α = 21.551(4) A, α = 90.00^(∘), T = 293 K, V = 4550.4(15) A³, Z = 4,
reflections collected 26 308, independent reflections 6220
[$R_{\rm int}=0.0971$], completeness to θ = 29.00^(∘), 90.8

(2) (Ag_(x)Po_(x)Se)₃(Bi₂Se₃)₆, monoclinic, space group C2/m,
c = 52.927(4) A, γ = 90.00^(∘), b = 4.1747(2) A, β = 107.423(6)^(∘),
a = 21.5211(17) A, α = 90.00^(∘), T = 293 K, V = 4537.0(5) A³, Z = 4,
reflections collected 22 210, independent reflections 6894
[$R_{\rm int}=0.1299$], completeness to θ = 29.00^(∘), 99.3

(3) (PbSe)₃(Bi₂Se₃)₃, monoclinic, space group P21/m, c = 15.9840(12) A,
γ = 90.00^(∘), b = 4.1915(3) A,

Figure 4: (Color online) (a) Optical image of a cleaved superconducting
crystal. Grain boundaries divide the crystal in two parts. The right
part exhibits a more cleavable characteristic than the part on the left.
This distinct topography indicates the different structures of these two
domains. The domain angles, as shown as the yellow cross, are ∼90^(∘),
consistent with the solved crystallographic data of
(PbSe)₃(Bi₂Se)₃)${}_{8\rm tot}$ (m = 1, 2). The right domain is ascribed
to the m = 2 phase and the left part is the m = 1 phase. (b) X-ray
diffraction of a superconducting crystal along the c axis. The two sets
of (001) peaks unveil that two phases intergrown in the ab plane,
consisting well with the image in (a).

β = 97.4750(10)^(∘), a = 21.4727(16) A, α = 90.00^(∘), T = 293 K,
V = 1426.38(18) A³, Z = 2, reflections collected 7977, independent
reflections 3359 [$R_{\rm int}=0.1129$], completeness to θ = 29.00^(∘),
93.1%, refinement method, full-matrix least squares on F², goodness of
fit, 0.859, final R indices [>2σ(I)] $R_{\rm obs}=0.0624$,
$w\,R_{\rm obs}=0.1389$, R indices [all data] $R_{\rm all}=0.1091$,
$w\,R_{\rm all}=0.1536$. R = Σ|[F_(o)| − |F_(c)|/| Σ|F_(c)|,
wR = {∑[w(|F_(o)|² − |F_(c)|²)³]/∑[w(|F_(o)|²)³]}^(1/2), and
w = 1/[a²(F_(o)²) + (0.0988 P)² + 0.0000 P], where
P = (F_(o)² + 2F_(c)²)/3.

## References

* [1] M. Z. Hasan and C. L. Kane, Rev. Mod. Phys. **82**, 3045 (2010). *
[2] X.-L. Qi and S.-C. Zhang, Rev. Mod. Phys. **83**, 1057 (2011). * [3]
J. E. Moore, Nature (London) **464**, 194 (2010). * [4] Y. Ando, J.
Phys. Soc. Jpn. **82**, 102001 (2013). * [5] H. J. Zhang, C.-X. Liu,
X.-L. Qi, X. Dai, Z. Fang, and S.-C. Zhang, Nat. Phys. **5**, 438
(2009). * [6] D. Hsieh _et al._, Nature (London) **460**, 1101 (2009). *
[7] D.-X. Qu, Y. S. Hor, J. Xiong, R. J. Cava, and N. P. Ong, Science
**329**, 821 (2010). * [8] J. G. Analytis, R. D. McDonald, S. C. Riggs,
J.-H. Chu, G. S. Boebinger, and I. R. Fisher, Nat. Phys. **6**, 960
(2010); J. G. Analytis, J.-H. Chu, Y. Chen, F. Corredor, R. D. McDonald,
Z. X. Shen, and I. R. Fisher, Phys. Rev. B **81**, 205407 (2010). * [9]
Y. Zhang _et al._, Nat. Phys. **6**, 584 (2010). * [10] F. Xiu _et al._,
Nat. Nanotechnol. **6**, 216 (2011). * [11] R. J. Cava, H. W. Ji, M. K.
Fuocillo, Q. D. Gibson, and Y. S. Hor, J. Mater. Chem. C **1**, 3176
(2013). * [12] Q. D. Gibson _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **88**, 081108(R)
(2013). * [13] Y. S. Hor, A. J. Williams, J. G. Checkelsky, P. Roushan,
J. Seo, Q. Xu, H. W. Zandbergen, A. Yazdani, N. P. Ong, and R. J. Cava,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **104**, 057001 (2010). * [14] S. V. Eremerey _et al._,
Nat. Commun. **3**, 635 (2012). * [15] M. G. Kanatzidis, Acc. Chem. Res.
**38**, 359 (2005). * [16] K. Nakayama, K. Eto, Y. Tanaka, T. Sato, S.
Souma, T. Takahashi, K. Segawa, and Y. Ando, Phys. Rev. Lett. **109**,
236804 (2012). * [17] See Supplemental Material at
http://link.aps.org/supplemental/ 10.1103/PhysRevB.90.020504 for brief
description of materials synthesis, structural details, transport
characterization and doping effect. * [18] L. Fang, H. Luo, P. Cheng, Z.
Wang, Y. Jia, G. Mu, B. Shen, I. I. Mazin, L. Shan, C. Ren, and H.-H.
Wen, Phys. Rev. B **80**, 104508(R) (2009). * [19] G. Bergmann, Phys.
Rep. **107**, 1 (1984). * [20] H. Peng, K. Lai, D. Kong, S. Meister, Y.
L. Chen, X. L. Qi, S. C. Zhang, Z. X. Shen, and Y. Cui, Nat. Mater.
**9**, 225 (2010). * [21] J. Chen _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **105**,
176602 (2010); J. Chen, X. Y. He, K. H. Wu, Z. Q. Ji, L. Lu, J. R. Shi,
J. H. Smet, and Y. Q. Li, Phys. Rev. B **83**, 241304(R) (2011). * [22]
H.-T. He, G. Wang, T. Zhang, I.-K. Sou, G. K. L. Wong, J.-N. Wang, H.-Z.
Lu, S.-Q. Shen, and F.-C. Zhang, Phys. Rev. Lett. **106**, 166805
(2011). * [23] M. R. Lang _et al._, Nano Lett. **13**, 48 (2013). * [24]
T. Zhang _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **103**, 266803 (2009). * [25] P.
Roushan, J. Seo, C. V. Parker, Y. S. Hor, D. Hsieh, D. Qian, A.
Richardella, M. Z. Hasan, R. J. Cava, and A. Yazdani, Nature (London)
**460**, 1106 (2009). * [26] S. Hikami, A. I. Larkin, and Y. Nagaoka,
Prog. Theor. Phys. **63**, 707 (1980). * [27] S. LaShell, B. A.
McDougall, and E. Jensen, Phys. Rev. Lett. **77**, 3419 (1996). * [28]
N. R. Werthamer, E. Helfand, and P. C. Hohenberg, Phys. Rev. **147**,
295 (1966). * [29] W. E. Lawrence and S. Doniach, in _Proceedings of the
12th International Conference on Low Temperature Physics_, edited by E.
Kanda (Keigaku, Tokyo, 1971), p. 361. * [30] S. R. Saha, N. P. Butch, K.
Kirshenbaum, J. Paglione, and P. Y. Zavalli, Phys. Rev. Lett. **103**,
037005 (2009). * [31] J. Engelmann _et al._, Nat. Commun. **4**, 2877
(2013). * [32] L. Fu and C. L. Kane, Phys. Rev. Lett. **100**, 096407
(2008).
