# SrPt₃P: A two-band single-gap superconductor

R. Khasanov,^(1,)1 A. Amato,¹ P. K. Biswas,¹ H. Luetkens,¹ N. D.
Zhigadlo,² and B. Batlogg²

¹Laboratory for Muon Spin Spectroscopy, Paul Scherrer Institute, CH-5232
Villigen PSI, Switzerland

²Laboratory for Solid State Physics, ETH Zurich, 8093 Zurich,
Switzerland

³Laboratory for Solid State Physics, ETH Zurich, 8093 Zurich,
Switzerland

Footnote 1: rustem.khasanov@psi.ch

Received 22 April 2014; revised manuscript received 8 October 2014;
published 28 October 2014

###### Abstract

The magnetic penetration depth (λ) as a function of applied magnetic
field and temperature in SrPt₃P (T_(c) ≃ 8.4 K) was studied by means of
muon-spin rotation (μSR). The dependence of λ⁻² on temperature suggests
the existence of a single s-wave energy gap with the zero-temperature
value Δ₀ = 1.55(2) meV. At the same time λ was found to be strongly
field dependent which is the characteristic feature of the nodal gap
and/or multiband systems. The multiband nature of the superconducting
state is further suggested by the upward curvature of the upper critical
field. This apparent contradiction is resolved by SrPt₃P being a
particular two-band superconductor with equal gaps but different
coherence lengths within the two Fermi surface sheets.

pacs: DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.90.140507 [ ]PACS number(s): 74.72.Gh,
74.25.Jb, 74.25.Op, 76.75.+i [ ]

After the discovery of the first Fe-based superconductors enormous
efforts were made to improve their superconducting properties. The
intensive search led to the discovery of several Fe-based materials
(see, e.g., Ref. [1] for review and references therein) and related
compounds such as BaNi₂As₂[2], SrNi₂As₂[3], SrPt₂As₂[4], and SrPtAs [5],
without Fe and relatively low superconducting transition temperatures
T_(c)’s.

Recently, Takayama _et al._[6] reported the synthesis of a new family of
ternary platinum phosphide superconductors with the chemical formula
AP_(t)yP (A = Sr, Ca, and La) and T_(c)’s of 8.4, 6.6, and 1.5 K,
respectively. Theoretical studies on the pairing mechanism in these new
compounds gave partially contradicting results [7,9]. The authors of
Ref. [7] performed first-principles calculations and proposed that
superconductivity is caused by the proximity to a dynamical
charge-density wave instability, and that a strong spin-orbit coupling
leads to exotic pairing in at least LaPt₃P. In contrast, the
first-principles calculations and Migdal-Eliashberg analysis performed
by Subedi _et al._[9] suggest conventional phonon-mediated
superconductivity. Also experimentally seemingly contradicting results
were obtained. Based on the observation of nonlinear temperature
behavior of the Hall resistivity, the authors of Ref. [6] suggest
multiband superconductivity in these new compounds. Note that the
presence of two bands crossing the Fermi level was indeed revealed by
_ab initio_ band structure calculations presented in [7,9,10,11]. On the
other hand the specific-heat data of SrPt₃P were found to be well
described within a single-band, single s-wave gap approach with the
zero-temperature gap value of Δ₀ = 1.85 meV [6].

In this Rapid Communication we report on the results of muon-spin
rotation (μSR) studies of the magnetic penetration depth (λ) as a
function of temperature and magnetic field of the novel superconductor
SrPt₃P. Below T ≃ T_(c)/2 the superfluid density (ρ_(s) ∝ λ⁻²) becomes
temperature independent which is consistent with a fully gapped
superconducting state. The full temperature dependence of ρ_(s)(T) is
well described within a single s-wave gap scenario with the
zero-temperature gap value Δ₀ = 1.55(2) meV. On the other hand, λ was
found to increase with increasing magnetic field as is observed in
multiband superconductors or superconductors with nodes in the energy
gap function. The upper critical field shows a pronounced upward
curvature thus pointing to a multiband nature of the superconducting
state of SrPt₃P. Our results indicate that SrPt₃P is a two-band
superconductor with equal gaps but different coherence length parameters
ξ_(i) for the two Fermi surface sheets.

The sample preparation and the magnetization experiments were performed
at the ETH-Zurich. Polycrystalline samples of SrPt₃P were prepared using
the cubic anvil high-pressure and high-temperature technique. Coarse
powders of Sr, Pt, and P elements of high purity (99.99

Measurements of the upper critical field B_(c2) were performed using a
Quantum Design 7 T SQUID magnetometer. The temperature dependence of
B_(c2) was obtained from field-cooled magnetization curves [M_(FC)(T)]
measured in constant magnetic fields ranging from 0.3 mT to 4 T (see
Fig. 1 and Sec. S1 in the Supplemental Material [8]). The B_(c2)(T)
curve exhibits a pronounced upward curvature around ∼6-6.5 K. Linear
fits of B_(c2)(T) in the vicinity of T_(c) and for T ≤ 6 K yield
B_(c2)/dT = −0.49 and −0.77 T/K, respectively. Open circles correspond
to B_(c2)(T) data points from Ref. [6]. They are in perfect agreement
with our data thus implying that the upturn on B_(c2)(T) reported here
is indeed a generic property of the SrPt₃P compound. Note that an upward
curvature of B_(c2)(T) was also observed previously for a number of
materials such as Nb [12,13], V [12], NbSe₂[14,15,16], MgB₂[17,18,19],
borocarbides and nitrides [20,21,22], heavy fermion systems [23], and
various iron-based [24; 25; 26] and cuprate superconductors [27; 28],
and was often associated with two-band superconductivity.

The temperature and the magnetic field dependence of the magnetic
penetration depth λ were obtained from transverse-field (TF) μSR data
[29]. The experiments were carried out at the π_E_1 beam line at the
Paul Scherrer Institute (Villigen, Switzerland). The data were analyzed
using the free software package musrfit[30]. In a polycrystalline sample
the magnetic penetration depth λ can be extracted from the Gaussian
muon-spin depolarization rate $\sigma_{\rm sc}(T)\sim\lambda^{-2}$,
which reflects the second moment
($\sigma_{\rm sc}^{2}/\gamma_{\mu}^{2}$, γ_(μ) is the muon gyromagnetic
ratio) of the magnetic field distribution due to the flux-line lattice
(FLL) in the mixed state [31; 32; 33]. The TF-μSR data were analyzed
using the asymmetry function

$$A(t) = A_{\rm sc}\exp\big{[}-(\sigma_{\rm sc}^{2}+\sigma_{\rm s}^{2})t ^{2}/2\big{]}\cos(\gamma_{\mu}B_{\rm sc}t+\phi)$$
(1)
$$+A_{b}\exp\big{(}-\sigma_{b}^{2}t^{2}/2\big{)}\cos(\gamma_{\mu}B _{b}t+\phi).$$

The first term of Eq. (1) represents the response of the superconducting
part of the sample. Here $A_{\rm sc}$ denotes the initial asymmetry;
$\sigma_{\rm sc}$ is the Gaussian relaxation rate due to the FLL;
$\sigma_{\rm s}$ is the contribution to the field distribution arising
from the nuclear moment and which is found to be temperature
independent, in agreement with the ZF results (not shown); $B_{\rm int}$
is the internal magnetic field sensed by the muons and ϕ is the initial
phase of the muon-spin ensemble. The second term with the initial
asymmetry A_(b), small σ_(b) < 0.3μs⁻¹ and B_(b) close to the applied
field corresponds to the background muons stopping in the cryostat and
in nonsuperconducting parts of the sample.

Figure 2 shows the evolution of $\sigma_{\rm sc}$ at T = 1.7 K as a
function of the applied magnetic field B. Each data point was obtained
after cooling the sample in the corresponding field from above T_(c) to
1.7 K. The overall decrease of $\sigma_{\rm sc}$ with increasing applied
field is partially caused by the decreased width of the internal field
distribution upon approaching B_(c2). To quantify such an effect, one
can make use of the numerical Ginzburg-Landau model, developed by Brandt
[34]. This model predicts the magnetic field dependence of the second
moment of the magnetic field distribution, i.e., the μSR depolarization
rate:

$$\sigma_{\rm sc}\ [\mu\)s\({}^{-1}] = 4.83\times 10^{4}(1-B/B_{c2})$$
(2)
$$\times[1+1.21(1-\sqrt{B/B_{c2}})^{3}]\lambda^{-2}\ [{\rm nm}^{-2}].$$

Under the assumption of field-independent λ the dependence of
$\sigma_{\rm sc}$ on B was analyzed by using the values of the upper
critical field B_(c2) as obtained in magnetization experiments
[B_(c2)(1.7) K  ≃ 4.5 T, see Fig. 1]. It is clear that the theoretical
σ(B), which is presented in Fig. 2 by the dashed line, is not in
agreement with the data.

The dependence of $\sigma_{\rm sc}$ on B was further analyzed using the
two-component model proposed by Serventi _et al._[35]. The model
considers the independent contributions of two bands. Each band is
characterized by its own coherence length (ξ₁, ξ₂), while the parameter
w₁ = ρ_(x, 1)/ρ_(x) accounts for the contribution of the first band into
the total superfluid density (see Ref. [35] and Sec. S2 in the
Supplemental Material [8]). The results of the fit with λ = 134(2) nm,
w = 0.72(2), ξ₁ = 8.6 nm, and ξ₂ = 26 nm are presented in Fig. 2 by the
solid red line.

The temperature dependences of λ⁻² for μ₀H = 0.05, 0.15, 0.3, and 0.45 T
were obtained from measured $\sigma_{\rm sc}(T)$’s (the inset in Fig. 2)
and B_(c2)(T) (Fig. 1) using Eq. (2). Figure 3 shows λ⁻²(T) normalized
to its value averaged over the temperature range 1.7-3.5 K as a function
of T/T_(c)(B). All data curves

Figure 1: (Color online) The temperature dependence of the upper
critical field B_(c2) of SrPt,P (closed circles). The dotted lines are
linear fits of B_(c2)(T) in the vicinity of T_(c) and for T ≤ 6 K. Open
circles are B_(c2)(T) data points from Ref. [6]. The inset shows the
temperature dependence of the zero-field-cooled (ZFC) and field-cooled
(FC) magnetization measured at μ₀H = 0.3 mT.

Figure 2: (Color online) The dependence of the depolarization rate
$\sigma_{\rm sc}$ on the applied field B at T = 1.7 K. The dashed black
line represents $\sigma_{\rm sc}(B)$ as expected within the model of
Brandt [34] for λ = 162(4) nm and B_(c2) = 4.5 T obtained in
magnetization experiments. The red solid line is the fit by means of the
two-component model from Ref. [35] with the parameters ξ₁ = 8.6 nm,
ξ₂ = 26 nm, λ = 134(2) nm, and w = 0.72(2); see Sec. S2 in the
Supplemental Material [8]. The inset shows the temperature dependence of
the depolarization rate $\sigma_{\rm sc}$ caused by the formation of FLL
in SrPt₃P in fields of 0.05, 0.15, 0.3, and 0.45 T.

merge into the single line. The inset of Fig. 3 shows the field
dependence of λ⁻² for T = 1.7, 4.1, and 6.1 K.

First we will discuss the temperature dependence of λ⁻². It is seen that
below approximately one half of T_(c), λ⁻² is temperature independent.
The solid line in Fig. 3 represents a fit with the weak-coupling BCS
model [36]:

$$\frac{\lambda^{-2}(T)}{\lambda^{-2}(0)}=\frac{\rho_{s}(T)}{\rho_{s}(0)}=1+2 \int_{\Delta(T)}^{\infty}\left(\frac{\partial f}{\partial E}\right)\frac{E\,dE} {\sqrt{E^{2}-\Delta(T)^{2}}}.$$
(3)

Here λ⁻²(0) and ρ_(s)(0) are the zero-temperature values of the magnetic
penetration depth and the superfluid density, respectively, and
f = [1 + exp (E/k_(B)T)]⁻¹ is the Fermi function. The temperature
dependence of the gap is approximated by
Δ(T)/Δ₀ = tanh [1.82[1.018(T_(c)/T) − 1]^(0.51)][37], where Δ₀ is the
maximum gap value at T = 0. The fit results in
Δ₀(B)/k_(B)T_(c)(B) = 4.28(5), λ⁻²(T)/λ⁻²(1.7-3.5 K)=1.021(6), and
T/T_(c)(B) = 0.972(3). For T_(c)(B = 0) ≃ 8.4 K (see Fig. 1) we get
Δ₀(B = 0) = 1.55(2) meV. Note that this value of the superconducting gap
is close to Δ₀ = 1.85 meV obtained from zero-field specific-heat data by
Takayama _et al._[6].

It is noteworthy that there is no need to introduce more than one gap
parameter or to consider more complicated gap symmetry in order to
satisfactorily describe λ⁻²(T) data. Fits using gap functions containing
nodes result in higher χ² than that obtained for the simple s-wave gap
model described above (see Sec. S3a in the Supplemental Material [8]). A
fit using the anisotropic s-wave gap function results in χ² comparable
to that of the s-wave model with an almost constant zero-temperature gap
value (1.50  ≤ Δ₀≤ 1.60 meV, see Sec. S3a in the Supplemental Material
[8]). From the analysis of λ⁻²(T) data alone one could therefore
conclude that SrPt₃P is a a single-band s-wave superconductor. Note that
a similar conclusion was reached by Takayama _et al._[6] based on
specific-heat data. In the following we will suggest that this was a
premature conclusion obtained without considering the field dependence
of λ.

As follows from the inset in Fig. 3, the field increase from 0.05 up to
0.45 T leads to the decrease of λ⁻² by almost a factor of 2. In
single-band s-wave superconductors, λ is _independent_ of the magnetic
field [32, 37, 38, 39]. A dependence of λ on B is expected for
superconductors containing nodes in the energy gap or/and multiband
superconductors [33, 38, 40, 41, 42]. In the latter case the superfluid
density within one series of bands is expected to be suppressed faster
by the magnetic field than within the others [41, 42].

The single s-wave gap behavior of λ⁻²(T) (see Fig. 3 and the discussion
above) and the multiband features following after the upper critical
field B_(ξ2) and λ⁻²(B) measurements (Figs. 1 and 2 and the inset in
Fig. 3) reveal that SrPt₃P is a _two-band_ superconductor with energy
gaps being _equal_ within both bands [43]. Within a two-band model the
deviation from the simple field independence of λ as well as the
appearance of the upward curvature of the upper critical field could
reflect the occurrence of two distinct coherence lengths ξ₁ and ξ₂ for
two bands (associated with the corresponding upper critical field values
B_(ξ2, i) = ϕ₀/2π ξ_(i)²) [35, 41, 42, 44, 45, 46]. Following BCS, the
zero-temperature coherence length obeys the relation ξ ∝ (v_(F))/Δ₀
(where v_(F)) is the averaged value of the Fermi velocity). One could
assume, therefore, that in SrPt₃P the difference between ξ₁ and ξ₂ is
caused by the different Fermi velocities ((v_(F, 1)) ≠ (v_(F, 2))),
while the gaps remain the same (Δ₁ = Δ₂).

The statement about different (v_(F))’s in two Fermi surface sheets of
SrPt₃P is fully confirmed by the calculated band structure [7, 9, 10,
11]. According to Refs. [7, 9, 10, 11] there are two bands crossing the
Fermi level having significantly different v_(F)’s. The ratio of v_(F)’s
is, e.g., ≃2 along Γ-X and ∼3-4 along Γ-Z directions of the Brillouin
zone. It is worth noting that different Fermi velocities on the
different bands are expected to be a general feature of multiband
superconductors as, e.g., MgB₂[47, 48, 49], borocarbides [21, 49],
Fe-based superconductors [50, 51], etc.

Note that the SrPt₃P studied here is distinctly different from the
"textbook" two-band superconductor MgB₂ in a particular way. In SrPt₃P
the charge carriers in both bands are expected to be almost equally
strongly coupled to the phonons. Indeed, according to the band structure
calculations of Nekrasov _et al._[10] the carriers in two bands
correspond to the relatively _similar_pdπ antibonding states of Pt(I)-P
and Pt(II)-P ions, and are coupled to the _same_ low-lying phonon modes
confined to the _ab_ plane. In contrast, in MgB₂ only the σ band
carriers are coupled strongly to E_(Eg) phonons, while the coupling of
both, the σ and the π, bands to the harmonic B_(1g), A_(2u), and E_(1u)
phonons is negligible [52]. Therefore, MgB₂ and SrPt₃P correspond to two
limiting cases of two-band superconductivity with the energy gaps being
nonequal (Δ₁ ≠ Δ₂, as in MgB₂) and equal (Δ₁ = Δ₂, as in SrPt₃P). At the
same time SrPt₃P remains the "true" two-band superconductor since, due
to nonequal Fermi velocities (⟨v_(F, i)⟩ ≠ ⟨v_(F, 2)⟩), the carriers in
various bands "respond" differently to the magnetic field [as shown here
based on B_(ξ2)(T) and λ(B) studies and by Takayama _et al._[6] based on
the temperature dependence of the Hall resistivity].

Figure 3: (Color online) λ⁻²(T) normalized to its value averaged over
the temperature range 1.7–3.5 K as a function of T/T_(c)(B). The solid
line is the fit obtained by using the weak-coupling BCS model [see Eq.
(3)]. The inset shows the dependence of λ⁻² on the applied field at
T = 1.7, 4.1, and 6.1 K.

By following the above presented arguments we propose a schematic
diagram describing relations between the single-, two-, and multiband
superconductivities (see Fig. 4). The single-band superconductor has
essentially one gap value and one average Fermi velocity (⟨v_(F)⟩).
There are two types of two-band superconductors with energy gaps being
equal (Δ₁ = Δ₂) or nonequal (Δ₁ ≠ Δ₂). Both of these types are
characterized, however, by nonequal ⟨v_(F)⟩’s. The way to multiband
superconductors may proceed by different routes. (i) All gaps in all
bands crossing the Fermi level are equal (Δ₁ = Δ₂… = Δ_(n)). This is
might be the case for the optimally doped LaFeAsO_(0.9)F_(0.1) having
five Fermi surfaces (as most other Fe-based superconductors, see, e.g.,
Ref. [1] and references therein). As shown by Luetkens _et al._[53] the
temperature evolution of the superfluid density of LaFeAsO_(0.9)F_(0.1)
is well described within the single s-wave gap approach, while λ⁻²
depends strongly on the magnetic field. It should be noted, however,
that the presence of two distinct gaps in LaFeAsO_(0.9)F_(0.1) was
reported by Gonnelli _et al._[54] based on the result of point contact
Andreev reflection experiment. (ii) Gaps in some Fermi sheets are equal
but in others are not (Δ₁ = Δ₂⋯ = Δ_(k) ≠ Δ_(k + 1)⋯ ≠ Δ_(n)). A good
example is the optimally doped Ba_(1 − x)K_(x)Fe₂As₂ where three gaps
are equal (≃9 meV) while the last gap was found to be approximately
eight times smaller (≃1.1 meV) [55, 55]. (iii) Gaps in all the Fermi
sheets are different (Δ₁ ≠ Δ₂⋯ ≠ Δ_(n)).

To summarize, the temperature and the magnetic field dependence of the
magnetic penetration depth λ in the SrPt₃P superconductor (T_(c) ≃ 8.4
K) were studied by means of muon-spin rotation. Below T ≃ T_(c)/2 the
superfluid density ρ_(i) ∝ λ⁻² is temperature independent which is
consistent with a fully gapped superconducting state. The full ρ_(s)(T)
is well described within the single s-wave gap scenario with the
zero-temperature gap value Δ₀ = 1.55(2) meV. However, λ was found to be
strongly field dependent well below the upper critical field B_(c2).
This puzzle is reconciled by invoking a two-component model analysis
with different characteristic length scales ξ₁ and ξ₂. To conclude, our
results suggests that SrPt₃P is a representative of a new class of
multiband superconductors.

This work was performed at the Swiss Muon Source, Paul Scherrer
Institut, Villigen, Switzerland.

## References

* [1] D. C. Johnston, Adv. Phys. **59**, 803 (2010). * [2] E. D. Bauer,
F. Ronning, B. L. Scott, and J. D. Thompson, Phys. Rev. B **78**, 172504
(2008). * [3] F. Ronning, N. Kurita, E. D. Bauer, B. L. Scott, T. Park,
T. Klimczuk, R. Movshovich, and J. D. Thompson, J. Phys. Condens. Matter
**20**, 342203 (2008). * [4] K. Kudo, Y. Nishikubo, and M. Nohara, J.
Phys. Soc. Jpn. **79**, 123710 (2010). * [5] S. Elgazar, A. M. Strydom,
and S.-L. Drechsler, J. Supercond. Novel Magn. **25**, 1795 (2012). *
[6] T. Takayama, K. Kuwano, D. Hirai, Y. Katsura, A. Yamamoto, and H.
Takagi, Phys. Rev. Lett. **108**, 237001 (2012). * [7] H. Chen, X.-F.
Xu, C. Cao, and J. Dai, Phys. Rev. B **86**, 125116 (2012). * [8] See
Supplemental Material at http://link.aps.org/supplemental/
10.1103/PhysRevB.90.140507 for details of the upper critical field
measurements, and the results of the analysis of the field and the
temperature dependences of the magnetic field penetration depth. * [9]
A. Subedi, L. Ortenzi, and L. Boeri, Phys. Rev. B **87**, 144504
(2013). * [10] I. A. Nekrasov and M. V. Sadovskii, JETP Lett. **96**,
227 (2012). * [11] C.-J. Kang, K.-H. Ahn, K.-W. Lee, and B. I. Min, J.
Phys. Soc. Jpn. **82**, 053703 (2013). * [12] S. J. Williamson, Phys.
Rev. B **2**, 3545 (1970). * [13] H. W. Weber, E. Seidl, C. Laa, E.
Schachinger, M. Prohammer, A. Junod, and D. Eckert, Phys. Rev. B **44**,
7585 (1991). * [14] N. Toyota, H. Nakatsuji, K. Noto, A. Hoshi, N.
Kobayashi, Y. Muto, and Y. Onodera, J. Low Temp. Phys. **25**, 485
(1976). * [15] D. Sanchez, A. Junod, J. Muller, H. Berger, and F. Levy,
Physica B **204**, 167 (1995). * [16] M. Zehetmayer and H. W. Weber,
Phys. Rev. B **82**, 014524 (2010). * [17] M. Zehetmayer, M. Eisterer,
J. Jun, S. M. Kazakov, J. Karpinski, A. Wisniewski, and H. W. Weber,
Phys. Rev. B **66**, 052505 (2002). * [18] A. V. Sologubenko, J. Jun, S.
M. Kazakov, J. Karpinski, and H. R. Ott, Phys. Rev. B **65**, 180505
(2002). * [19] L. Lyard, P. Samuely, P. Szabo, T. Klein, C. Marcenat, L.
Paulius, K. H. P. Kim, C. U. Jung, H.-S. Lee, B. Kang, S. Choi, S.-L.
Lee, J. Marcus, S. Blanchard, A. G. M. Jansen, U. Welp, G. Karapetrov,
and W. K. Kwok, Phys. Rev. B **66**, 180502 (2002). * [20] V. Metlushko,
U. Welp, A. Koshelev, I. Aranson, G. W. Crabtree, and P. C. Canfield,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **79**, 1738 (1997). * [21] S. V. Shulga, S.-L.
Drechsler, G. Fuchs, K.-H. Muller, K. Winzer, M. Heinecke, and K. Krug,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **80**, 1730 (1998). * [22] S. Manalo, H. Michor, M.
El-Hagary, G. Hilscher, and E. Schachinger, Phys. Rev. B **63**, 104508
(2001).

Figure 4: (Color online) Schematic diagram representing relations
between the various types of a single-band, two-band, and multiband
superconductors.

* (23) M.-A. Measson, D. Braithwaite, J. Flouquet, G. Seyfarth, J. P.
Brison, E. Lhotel, C. Paulsen, H. Sugawara, and H. Sato, Phys. Rev. B
**70**, 064516 (2004). * (24) F. Hunte, J. Jaroszynski, A. Gurevich, D.
C. Larbalestier, R. Jin, A. S. Sefat, M. A. McGuire, B. C. Sales, D. K.
Christen, and D. Mandrus, Nature **453**, 903 (2008). * (25) J.
Jaroszynski, F. Hunte, L. Balicas, Youn-jung Jo, I. Raicevic, A.
Gurevich, D. C. Larbalestier, F. F. Balakirev, L. Fang, P. Cheng, Y.
Jia, and H. H. Wen, Phys. Rev. B **78**, 174523 (2008). * (26) S.
Ghannadzadeh, J. D. Wright, F. R. Foronda, S. J. Blundell, S. J. Clarke,
and P. A. Goddard, Phys. Rev. B **89**, 054502 (2014). * (27) A.
Kortyka, R. Puzniak, A. Wisniewski, M. Zehetmayer, H. W. Weber, C. Y.
Tang, X. Yao, and K. Conder, Phys. Rev. B **82**, 054510 (2010). * (28)
T. B. Charikova, N. G. Shelushinina, G. I. Harus, D. S. Petukhov, V. N.
Neverov, and A. A. Ivanov, Physica C **488**, 25 (2013). * (29) A.
Yaouanc, P. Dalmas de Reotier, _Muon Spin Rotation, Relaxation and
Resonance_ (Oxford University, Oxford, 2011). * (30) A. Suter and B. M.
Wojek, Phys. Procedia **30**, 69 (2012). * (31) E. H. Brandt, Phys. Rev.
B **37**, 2349(R) (1988). * (32) R. Khasanov, I. L. Landau, C. Baines,
F. La Mattina, A. Maisuradze, K. Togano, and H. Keller, Phys. Rev. B
**73**, 214528 (2006). * (33) R. Khasanov, A. Shengelaya, A. Maisuradze,
F. La Mattina, A. Bussmann-Holder, H. Keller, and K. A. Muller, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **98**, 057007 (2007). * (34) E. H. Brandt, Phys. Rev. B
**68**, 054506 (2003). * (35) S. Serventi, G. Allodi, R. De Renzi, G.
Guidi, L. Romano, P. Manfrinetti, A. Palenzona, Ch. Niedermayer, A.
Amato, and Ch. Baines, Phys. Rev. Lett. **93**, 217003 (2004). * (36) M.
Tinkham, _Introduction to Superconductivity_ (Krieger, Malabar, FL,
1975). * (37) R. Khasanov, D. G. Eshchenko, D. Di Castro, A. Shengelaya,
F. La Mattina, A. Maisuradze, C. Baines, H. Luetkens, J. Karpinski, S.
M. Kazakov, and H. Keller, Phys. Rev. B **72**, 104504 (2005). * (38) R.
Kadono, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter **16**, S4421 (2004). * (39) R.
Khasanov, P. W. Klamut, A. Shengelaya, Z. Bukowski, I. M. Savic, C.
Baines, and H. Keller, Phys. Rev. B **78**, 014502 (2008). * (40) M.
Angst, D. Di Castro, D. G. Eshchenko, R. Khasanov, S. Kohout, I. M.
Savic, A. Shengelaya, S. L. Bud’ko, P. C. Canfield, J. Jun, J.
Karpinski, S. M. Kazakov, R. A. Ribeiro, and H. Keller, Phys. Rev. B
**70**, 224513 (2004). * (41) A. Bussmann-Holder, R. Khasanov, A.
Shengelaya, A. Maisuradze, F. La Mattina, H. Keller, and K. A. Muller,
Europhys. Lett. **77**, 27002 (2007). * (42) S. Weyeneth, M. Bendele, R.
Puzniak, F. Muranyi, A. Bussmann-Holder, N. D. Zhigadlo, S. Katrych, Z.
Bukowski, J. Karpinski, A. Shengelaya, R. Khasanov, and H. Keller,
Europhys. Lett. **91**, 47005 (2010). * (43) Our calculations presented
in Sec. 3b in the Supplemental Material reveal that the maximum
difference between two gaps does not exceed 15 * (44) A. Gurevich, Phys.
Rev. B **67**, 184515 (2003). * (45) R. Cubitt, M. R. Eskildsen, C. D.
Dewhurst, J. Jun, S. M. Kazakov, and J. Karpinski, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**91**, 047002 (2003). * (46) M. Mansor and J. P. Carbotte, Phys. Rev. B
**72**, 024538 (2005). * (47) H. J. Choi, D. Roundy, H. Sun, M. L.
Cohen, and S. G. Louie, Phys. Rev. B **66**, 020513 (2002). * (48) K. D.
Belashchenko, M. van Schilfgaarde, and V. P. Antropov, Phys. Rev. B
**64**, 092503 (2001). * (49) H. Suderow, V. G. Tissen, J. P. Brison, J.
L. Martinez, S. Vieira, P. Lejay, S. Lee, and S. Tajima, Phys. Rev. B
**70**, 134518 (2004). * (50) D. V. Evtushinsky, D. S. Inosov, V. B.
Zabolotnyy, M. S. Viazovska, R. Khasanov, A. Amato, H.-H. Klauss, H.
Luetkens, Ch. Niedermayer, G. L. Sun, V. Hinkov, C. T. Lin, A.
Varykhalov, A. Koitzsch, M. Knupfer, B. Buchner, A. A. Kordyuk, and S.
V. Borisenko, New J. Phys. **11**, 055069 (2009). * (51) A. Tamai, A. Y.
Ganin, E. Rozbicki, J. Bacsa, W. Meevasana, P. D. C. King, M. Caffo, R.
Schaub, S. Margadonna, K. Prassides, M. J. Rosseinsky, and F.
Baumberger, Phys. Rev. Lett. **104**, 097002 (2010). * (52) T. Yildirim,
O. Guiseren, J. W. Lynn, C. M. Brown, T. J. Udovic, Q. Huang, N. Rogado,
K. A. Regan, M. A. Hayward, J. S. Slusky, T. He, M. K. Haas, P.
Khalifah, K. Inumaru, and R. J. Cava, Phys. Rev. Lett. **87**, 037001
(2001). * (53) H. Luetkens, H.-H. Klauss, R. Khasanov, A. Amato, R.
Klingeler, I. Hellmann, N. Leps, A. Kondrat, C. Hess, A. Kohler, G.
Behr, J. Werner, and B. Buchner, Phys. Rev. Lett. **101**, 097009
(2008). * (54) R. S. Gonnelli, D. Daghero, M. Tortello, G. A. Ummarino,
V. A. Stepanov, J. S. Kim, and R. K. Kremer, Phys. Rev. B **79**, 184526
(2009). * (55) R. Khasanov, D. V. Evtushinsky, A. Amato, H.-H. Klauss,
H. Luetkens, Ch. Niedermayer, B. Buchner, G. L. Sun, C. T. Lin, J. T.
Park, D. S. Inosov, and V. Hinkov, Phys. Rev. Lett. **102**, 187005
(2009).
