# Onset of superconductivity in the antiferromagnetically ordered state

of single-crystal DyNi2B2C

B. K. Cho, P. C. Canfield, and D. C. Johnston

Ames Laboratory and Department of Physics and Astronomy, Iowa State
University, Ames, Iowa 50011

15 March 1995

###### Abstract

Temperature-dependent static magnetization, ac magnetic susceptibility,
and electrical-resistivity measurements of single-crystal DyNi2B2C
reveal bulk superconductivity below T_(c) = (6.2 +- 0.1) K. This T_(c)
is well below the Neel temperature T_(N) = 10.3 K. DyNi2B2C is the first
RNi2B2C compound with T_(c) < T_(N). The upper critical magnetic field
H_(c2)(T) increases approximately linearly from zero at 6.2 K to ∼ 5 kG
at 2 K.

The interplay between superconductivity and local-moment magnetism has
been vigorously studied since the late 1950s.[1] In the 1970s the
discovery of two families of magnetic superconductors, RMo₆(S,Se)₈ and
RRh₄B₄ (R = rare earth), led to a detailed study of the interaction
between the magnetic sublattice and the superconducting electrons.[1]
Recently the RNi2B2C family of magnetic superconductors was
discovered.[2] For R = Lu, Y, Tm, Er, and Ho the superconducting
transition temperatures for single-crystal samples are T_(c) = 16.0,
15.0, 10.8, 10.5, and 8.5 K, respectively.[3, 4, 5, 6, 7]
Superconductivity coexists with antiferromagnetic (AF) order for R = Tm,
Er, and Ho for temperatures below the Neel temperatures T_(N) = 1.5,
5.85, and 6.0 K, respectively.[4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10] Similar values of
T_(c) and T_(N) have been found for polycrystalline samples.[28] In
virtually all known magnetic superconductors,[11] when there is a
coexistence of AF ordering and superconductivity, T_(c) > T_(N). The
only local-moment systems that have T_(c) < T_(N) are solid solutions
such as the R(Ir_(x)Rh_(1 − x))4B₄ system where T_(N) = 2.7 K and T_(c)
= 1.4 K for R = Ho and x = 0.7.[1, 12] This reversal of T_(c) and T_(N)
only occurs for 0.6 < x < 0.8 in this alloy. Compounds exhibiting T_(c)
< T_(N) are expected to be rare since the stronger the conduction
electron-local moment coupling (such as would be required for a higher
T_(N)), the greater the anticipated suppression of T_(c) through
magnetic pair breaking.[1] In this paper we report the discovery of
superconductivity in single-crystal DyNi2B2C below a T_(c) = (6.2 +-
0.1) K that is well below the T_(N) = 10.3 K. This is the first such
member of the RNi2B2C family with T_(c) < T_(N).

Single crystals of DyNi2B2C were grown from Ni2B flux[3] using
high-purity elements: B (99.9

Figure 1 shows the powder x-ray-diffraction pattern of a crushed single
crystal of DyNi2B2C. The diffraction peaks index well to the tetragonal
unit cell reported[2] for DyNi2B2C with lattice parameters a = 3.534 A
and c = 10.484 A. The only peak that is not indexed to DyNi2B2C is the
weak peak at 2 θ = 45.85deg, attributed to the [21] peak of the Ni2B
flux.[13]

Figure 2 displays the temperature-dependent magnetic susceptibility χ(T)
of DyNi2B2C with a magnetic field H = 1 KG applied parallel (**H**|**c)
and perpendicular (**HL** ∝) to the c axis. Magnetic neutron diffraction
measurements[14] indicate that the sharp feature at T_(N) = 10.3 K in
Fig. 2 should be attributed to the onset of AF order. The large
anisotropy seen between **H**|**c and **HL** c at low T is a feature
common to the RNi2B2C materials for R = Er, Ho, and Tb.[6, 7, 15] The
inset to Fig. 2 shows χ⁻¹(T) for both directions of applied field as
well as for the polycrystalline average of the $\chi_{\rm lc}$ and
$\chi_{\rm lc}$ data: $\chi_{\rm poly}$ = $\chi_{\rm lc}$/3 +
2$\chi_{\rm lc}$/3. The $\chi_{\rm poly}(T)$ data can be fitted by a
Curie-Weiss law χ = C/(T = θ) for 20 < T < 350 K, giving an effective
moment $\mu_{\rm eff}$ = 9.85 μ_(B) and θ = (1 ± 2) K. This value of
$\mu_{\rm eff}$ is slightly lower than the theoretical value of 10.63
μ_(B) for the J = 15/2 Hund’s rule ground state of Dy3+. The anisotropic
χ(T) data can also be fitted by a Curie-Weiss form for **H**|**_c_ for
230 K < T < 375 K giving $\mu_{\rm eff}$ = 10.4 μ_(B) and θ = − 82 K and
for **HL** c for 200 K < T < 325 K giving $\mu_{\rm eff}$ = 9.8 μ_(B)
and θ = 25 K.

Figure 3(a) shows ρ_(ab)(T) of a DyNi2B2C crystal. There is a sharp loss
of scattering associated with the AF transition at

Figure 1: Powder x-ray-diffraction pattern of a crushed DyNi2B2C single
crystal.

T_(N)= 10.3 K, followed by a superconducting transition with an onset at
6.4 K and zero resistivity at 6.0 K. We find ρ_(ab)(300 K) = 55 μΩ cm.
The residual resistivity ratio is ρ_(ab)(300 K)/ρ_(ab)(7 K) = 27
indicating that the crystal has a high degree of perfection. Figure 3(b)
shows ρ_(ab)(H,T) for $\rm{B}$<T<T<T and $\rm{H}$⊥c. For these applied
fields (H≤5 kG), T_(N) is only weakly field dependent, decreasing to
T_(N)= 10.0 K for H= 5 kG (not shown). As can be seen from Fig. 3(b),
T_(c) is suppressed and the width of the superconducting transition is
increased with increasing H.

Figure 4 shows the temperature-dependent upper critical magnetic field
H_(c2)(T) derived from the ρ_(ab)(H,T) data in Fig. 3(b). H_(c2)(T)
increases nearly linearly with decreasing T from 10 G [just below
T_(c)(H= 0)] to ∼ 5 kG near 2 K. No local minimum or other structure is
seen in H_(c2)(T), which is consistent with T_(c)<T_(N). This is in
contrast to the local extrema in H_(c2)(T) seen for TmNi₂B₂C,[5, 6]
ErNi₂B₂C,[6, 8] and HoNi₂B₂C.[7] The value of ∥dH_(c2)/dT∥_(T_(c)) =
(1.2± 0.2) kG/K in less than the values of (2.8± 0.2) and (2.6± 0.2)
kG/K for TmNi₂B₂C (Ref. [5]) and ErNi₂B₂C (Ref. [6]), respectively.

Figure 5(a) shows the low-temperature static volume magnetization M of
DyNi₂B₂C for $\rm{H}$∥c. From Fig. 2, for this field direction there is
only a weak paramagnetic contribution from the Dy sublattice. In Fig.
5(a), the onset of a superconducting magnetization is seen at 6.1 K
which becomes nearly independent of T below 4 K. At 2 K the flux
expulsion magnetization is 10

To further confirm that the superconductivity in DyNi₂B₂C is a bulk
rather than a surface effect, the M(T) of a powder sample made by
crushing a single crystal of DyNi₂B₂C was measured [Fig. 5(b)]. T_(N) is
now seen at ≈ 10.2 K. In addition, a clear onset of a superconducting
transition is seen at 5.9 K (see inset). Due to the contribution from
the paramagnetic Dy sublattice, the measured magnetization does not
become diamagnetic until somewhat lower temperatures. At 2 K the
diamagnetic M/H for the field-cooled measurement is 60

Figure 4: Upper critical magnetic field H_(c2) vs temperature T for
DyNi₂B₂C with $\rm{H}$∥c. The circles, squares, and triangles show
H_(c2)(T) data determined from Fig. 3(b) by using the zero-resistivity,
midpoint, and resistive onset, respectively, as the criterion for
determining T_(c)(H).

Figure 3: Electrical resistivity of DyNi₂B₂C in the ab plane vs
temperature T: (a) H= 0 and T<15 K and (b) $\rm{H}$⊥c and T<7 K.

Figure 5(c) shows the ac susceptibility $\chi_{\rm ac}$ for
${\bf H_{\rm ac}}\|c$ taken on the same single-crystal sample that was
used to provide the data shown in Fig. 5(a). The real part of
$\chi_{\rm ac}$ shows a clear onset of diamagnetism below 6.3 K. In
addition, below 6.3 K there is an increase in the imaginary part. Both
of these features are consistent with a bulk T_(c) of 6.3 K.

Figures 2-5 clearly indicate the existence of a bulk antiferromagnetic
transition at T_(N)= 10.3 K and a bulk superconducting transition at
T_(c)= (6.2± 0.1) K in single-crystal DyNi₂B₂C. The latter result is in
conflict with an earlier report [8] on a polycrystalline sample of
DyNi₂B₂C that showed no superconductivity above 2 K. One possible
explanation for this difference is that there may be some residual
strain in polycrystalline samples leading to an extrinsic suppression of
T_(c) . As shown in Figs. 5(a) and 5(b), a broadening and suppression of
the majority of the superconducting transition occurred in our powdered
single-crystal sample. Another conspicuous difference between the
polycrystalline and single-crystal samples is the value of the residual
resistivity ρ₀ at T>T_(c) : for our single-crystal sample ρ₀(7 K) =2.2
μΩ cm (Fig. 3), while for the polycrystalline sample [8]ρ₀(7 K)>20 μΩ
cm. This difference in ρ₀ may indicate that DyNi₂B₂C shows a variability
in composition and/or in the degree of crystallographic ordering; such
variabilities could strongly affect T_(c) as in A-15 compounds such as
Nb₃Ge. [16] With T_(c)<T_(N), the question of whether the T_(c) of
DyNi₂B₂C follows de Gennes scaling is a salient one. Figure 6 shows the
T_(N) and T_(c) values for single crystals of RNi₂B₂C (R = Gd-Tb, Lu,
and Y) [3, 7, 10, 11, 15, 17] vs the de Gennes factor (g_(J)−1)²J(J+1),
where g_(J) is the Lande factor and J is the total angular momentum of
the R³⁺ Hund’s rule ground state. Good overall de Gennes scaling is seen
for the whole heavy rare-earth series for both T_(c) and T_(N) . This
indicates that both T_(N) and the suppression of T_(c) originate from
the same conduction electron-local moment exchange interaction. In
particular, our T_(c) value for single-crystal DyNi₂B₂C is on the order
of that expected from the variation of T_(c) vs de Gennes factor for the
other superconducting members.

In summary, temperature-dependent electrical resistivity, static
magnetization, and ac susceptibility measurements have revealed the
onset of bulk superconductivity in single-crystal DyNi₂B₂C at T_(c)=
(6.2± 0.1) K, which is significantly lower than the antiferromagnetic
ordering (Neel) temperature at T_(N)= 10.3 K. DyNi₂B₂C is the first
member of the RNi₂B₂C series to exhibit T_(c)<T_(N) and also appears to
be a

Figure 5: Temperature-dependent magnetization M of DyNi₂B₂C: (a) static
M with ${\bf H}\|c$= 10 G: zero-field-cooled (ZFC) data (circles) and
field-cooled/warming (FCW) data (triangles); (b) static M of a powdered
single crystal with H= 10 G: ZFC data (circles) and FCW data
(triangles); and (c) real (χ^(′), diamonds) and imaginary (χ^(′′),
circles) parts of the ac susceptibility $\chi_{\rm ac}$ of the same
single crystal used in (a) with $H_{\rm ac}$= 0.125 G at a frequency of
125 Hz.

Figure 6: Néel temperature T_(N) (squares) and superconducting
transition temperature T_(c) (triangles) vs de Gennes factor
(g_(J)−1)²J(J+1) for DyNi₂B₂C and other RNi₂B₂C (R = Gd, Tb, Ho, Er, Tm,
Lu, and Y) (Refs. [3, 7, 9, 10, 14, 15, 17] single crystals.

crystallographically ordered compound outside of the heavy-fermion
family to show this order of transition temperatures. While there is
good overall de Gennes scaling of T_(c) and T_(N) across the RNi₂B₂C
series, it is still an open question as to how well de Gennes scaling
will work for a series of materials where T_(c) is lowered through T_(N)
in a more continuous manner. Since T_(c) < T_(N) for DyNi₂B₂C and
T_(c) > T_(N) for (Ho,Er,Tm)Ni₂B₂C, a study of the crossover of T_(c)
and T_(N) in, e.g., (Ho_(1 − x)Dy_(x))Ni₂B₂C solid solutions should be
very in tereseting.

The authors are grateful to the Ames Laboratory Materials Preparation
Center for supplying the high-purity dysprosium metal. Ames Laboratory
is operated for the U.S. Department of Energy by Iowa State University
under Contract No. W-7405-Eng-82. This work was supported by the
Director for Energy Research, Office of Basic Energy Sciences.

## References

* [1] For a review of magnetic superconductors as of 1990, see $\O$.
Fischer, in _Ferromagnetic Materials_, edited by K. H. J. Buschow and E.
P. Wohlfarth (North-Holland, Amsterdam, 1990), Vol. 5, p. 465. * [2] R.
J. Cava _et al._, Nature (London) **367**, 252 (1994); T. Siegrist _et
al._, _ibid._**367**, 254 (1994). * [3] M. Xu _et al._, Physica C
**227**, 321 (1994); M. Xu _et al._, Physica C **235-240**, 2533
(1995). * [4] R. Movshovich _et al._, Physica C **227**, 381 (1994). *
[5] B. K. Cho, M. Xu, P. C. Canfield, L. L. Miller, and D. C. Johnston,
Phys. Rev. B **52**, 3676 (1995). * [6] B. K. Cho, P. C. Canfield, L. L.
Miller, D. C. Johnston, W. P. Beyermann, and A. Yatskar, Phys. Rev. B
**52**, 3684 (1995). * [7] P. C. Canfield _et al._, Physica C **230**,
397 (1994). * [8] H. Eisaki _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **50**, 647 (1994). *
[9] A. I. Goldman _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **50**, 9668 (1994). * [10] J.
Zarestky _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **51**, 678 (1995). * [11] In the case
of heavy-fermion superconductors, the moments remaining on the ordering
4f sites at low T are greatly reduced through hybridization with the
conduction electrons. This class of magnetic superconductors is
considered to be fundamentally different from those discussed here. *
[12] H. C. Ku, F. Acker, and B. T. Matthias, Phys. Lett. **76A**, 399
(1980); L. D. Woolf _et al._, J. Low. Temp. Phys. **51**, 117 (1983). *
[13] JCPDS-International Center for Diffraction, Powder Data File Card
Number 25-576. * [14] P. Dervenangas, J. Zarestky, C. Stassis, A. I.
Goldman, P. C. Canfield, and B. K. Cho, Physica B **212**, 1 (1995). *
[15] B. K. Cho, P. C. Canfield, and D. C. Johnston (unpublished). * [16]
J. R. Gavaler, Appl. Phys. Lett. **23**, 480 (1973); A. R. Sweedler, D.
G. Schweitzer, and G. W. Webb, Phys. Rev. Lett. **33**, 168 (1974). *
[17] P. C. Canfield, B. K. Cho, and K. W. Dennis, Physica B (to be
published).
