Pressure dependence of the superconducting transition temperature and
the Hall coefficient in IBi_(2.2)Sr_(1.8)CaCu₂O_(8 + γ) single crystals

Tongkai Huang, Mitsuru Itoh, Jiangding Yu, Yoshiyuki Inaguma, and
Tetsuro Nakamura

Research Laboratory of Engineering Materials, Tokyo Institute of
Technology, 4259 Nagatsuta, Midori-ku, Yokohama 227, Japan

7 July 1993; revised manuscript received 16 November 1993

###### Abstract

The superconducting transition temperature T_(c) and the Hall
coefficient have been measured on IBi_(2.2)Sr_(1.8)CaCu₂O_(8 + γ) single
crystals under hydrostatic pressure. The T_(c) linearly decreases at the
rate dT_(c)/dP ∼ −3.5 K/GPa, indicating the facts that the charge
transfer occurs between intercalated iodine atoms and CuO₂ layers, and
the hole concentration situates in the overdoped region. The facts have
been further identified by our Hall-coefficient measurements at ambient
pressure, showing an increase of the hole concentration after
intercalation. The number of holes transferred from intercalated iodine
atoms was calculated to be 0.3 per iodine atom. The pressure derivative
of the Hall coefficient is −0.39 × 10⁻³ cm³ C⁻¹ GPa⁻¹, which is
approximately twice as large as the value on the pristine crystal,
indicating the valence change of the intercalated iodine under pressure.

## I Introduction

The structure of the high-T_(c) copper oxide superconductor is
anisotropic along the _ab_ plane and the _c_-axis direction. It was
believed that the electrical transport anisotropy is derived from the
structural anisotropy. Although the mechanism of high-T_(c)
superconductors is still a mystery today, it is generally considered
that the two dimensionality of the structure is important for high-T_(c)
superconductors. Among all high-T_(c) copper oxide superconductors
discovered at present, Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O_(8 + γ) (Bi-2:2:1:1) is markedly
anisotropic in its structure and easy to be intercalated. Xiang _et
al_.[1, 2] intercalated iodine in Bi-2:2:1:2, yielding a new stage-1
compound IBi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O_(8 + γ) (IBi-2:2:1:2). The crystal structure of
stage-1 iodine-intercalated superconducting IBi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O_(8 + γ) has
been determined by x-ray-diffraction analysis[3] and transmission
electron microscopy,[4] showing that the iodine atoms intercalate
between the weakly bound (Bi-O) bilayers with a corresponding expansion
along the _c_-axis direction by 0.36 nm for each Bi-O bilayer. The
intercalation of iodine not only affects the crystal structure of
Bi-2:2:1:2, but its electrical properties as well. It has been
reported[1, 2] that the superconducting transition temperature T_(c) is
depressed by about 10 K and the temperature dependence of the
resistivity along the _c_-axis direction changes from a
semiconductor-like behavior to a metal-like one after intercalation,
indicating that the electrical transport anisotropy is greatly reduced.

To explain the decrease of T_(c) through the intercalation of iodine,
two main effects were considered.[1, 3, 5, 6, 7] One is due to the
expansion of the crystal along the _c_-axis direction; namely, the
enhancement of the distance between CuO₂ layers in adjacent blocks
affects interblock coupling and leads to the change T_(c). The other is
an increase of the conductive hole carriers due to the charge transfer
between intercalated iodine atoms and CuO₂ layers.

On the other hand, the valence state of the intercalated iodine has been
investigated, based on the assumption that charge transfer exists
between intercalated iodine atoms and CuO₂ layers. From one
Raman-scattering experiment,[8] it has been claimed that the
intercalated iodine atoms are not ionized and exist like I₂ molecules.
Another Raman-scattering study,[9] on the contrary, has shown that the
iodine are ionized as I₃⁻ molecular anions. In addition, a coexistence
of I⁻ and I⁷⁺ valence states ha also been reported[6] by
x-ray-photoemission spectroscopy (XPS). However, the above results have
not been confirmed by other experiments.

Since the hole concentration CuO₂ layers could be varied under
pressure,[10, 11] the pressure effect is thought to be favorable for
studying the decrease of T_(c) through iodine intercalation. The study
of the variation of T_(c) with hole concentration under pressure has
been reported. Kosuge _et al_.[12] suggested that the sign of dT_(c)/dP
principally depends on where the hole concentration is located; i.e.,
dT_(c)/dP is positive in the underdoped region, zero if optimally doped,
and negative for samples in the overdoped region. Furthermore, Neumeier
and Zimmermann[13] claimed that another type of mechanism will affect
T_(c) under pressure for Y-Ba-Cu-O system superconductors, besides the
effect of the hole concentration. In the present study, we crudely
assume that the variation of T_(c) is mainly influenced by the hole
concentration in the CuO₂ layers. Therefore, if the hole concentration
in the pristine sample is situated in the underdoped region, a positive
value dT_(c)/dP is expected because of the increase of the hole
concentration in the CuO₂ layers under pressure. After intercalation, if
the hole concentration is still located in the underdoped region–i.e.,
the charge transfer between intercalated iodine atoms and CuO₂ layers is
small[3] or does not occur–the value of dT_(c)/dP should be the same as
that in the pristine sample. On the contrary, if the sample becomes
overdoped, the pressure derivative of T_(c) would show a negative value.
In addition, the hole concentration in the sample can be directly
detected by Hall-coefficient measurements. Accurate measurement of the
Hall coefficient under pressure can show the variation of the hole
concentration and thus the valence change of iodine in IBi-2:2:1:2.; if
charge transfer does occur.

Generally, the hole concentration of Bi-2:2:1:2 is situated in the
overdoped region,14,15 whereas Bi_(2.2)Sr_(1.8)CaCu₂O_(8 + y)
(Bi-2:2:1.8:1:2) (Ref. 16) is located in the underdoped region, since
the small amount of Bi substitution for Sr causes a decrease of holes in
the CuO₂ layers. Thus IBi_(2.2)Sr_(1.8)CaCu_(8 + y) (IBi-2.2:1.8:1:2)
single crystals, it seems, are suitable for studying whether or not
charge transfer occurs between intercalated iodine atoms and CuO₂
layers. Here, besides the XPS spectra, we mainly present the results of
resistance and Hall-coefficient measurements under pressure on
IBi-2.2:1.8:1:2 single crystals. Some results are compared with the
pristine ones to show the change of physical properties after the iodine
intercalation.

## II Experimental details

Pristine single crystals of Bi-2.2:1.8:1:2 were prepared by the
traveling-solvent floating-zone (TSFZ) method. Raw materials of Bi₂O₃
(99.99

The iodine-intercalated single crystal used in this work were made by a
gas-diffusion method. High-quality single crystals of Bi-2.2:1.8:1:2
(T_(c) > 83 K), and elemental iodine were encapsulated in a Pyrex tube
under a vacuum of < 10⁻³ torr. Iodine intercalation was carried out at
200^(∘)C for 10 days in a uniform-temperature furnace. The lattice
parameters, examined by x-ray diffraction, are a = b = 0.513 +- 0.007
nm, c = 3.054 +- 0.05 nm for the pristine crystals and a = b = 0.513 +-
0.007 nm, c = 3.710 +- 0.007 nm for the iodine-intercalation ones,
respectively, indicating that the structure of the intercalated crystals
is stage 1.

The temperature dependence of the electric resistance along _ab_ plane
and _c_-axis direction was measured on two crystals (with typical
dimensions of 6 x 2 x 0.02 mm³) by dc standard-four-probe and
pseudo-four-probe techniques.17 Copper wires (0.03 mm diameter) were
connected by indium onto the crystals as lead wires. The measuring
current was chosen to be 1 mA, which corresponds to a current density of
∼ 2.5 x 10⁴ A m⁻² in the _ab_ plane and ∼ 10² A m⁻² along the _c_-axis
direction, respectively. Hydrostatic pressure was generated by a CuBe
piston-cylinder cell, and the pressure in the cell between 60 K and room
temperature was monitored by a manganin resistance.18 The temperature of
the crystal was determined by a Chromel-Constantan thermocouple adjacent
to the sample, and the error of temperature induced by pressure was
checked19 within the accuracy of the thermocouple.

The pressure dependence of the Hall coefficient was detected at room
temperature in the _ab_ plane. The measured crystal was carefully cut
into a cross shape with a thickness of 0.020 48 mm, which was accurately
measured by laser microscopy (Lasertec Corp. model 1LM21). High pressure
was applied by the same device used for the resistance measurement. The
electric current and magnetic field were chosen to be 8.00 mA and 1.2 T,
respectively. The magnetic field was produced by an electromagnet and
checked within an error of 5

The electron binding energy of the iodine 3d core levels was measured in
an IBi-2.2:1.8:1:2 crystal by XPS (SHIMADZU ESCA-850) at room
temperature, and the binding energy was corrected by the peak of Au
4f7/2.

## III Results and discussion

The temperature dependence of the electric resistance along the _c_-axis
direction at various pressures is shown in Fig. 1(a) for an
IBi-2.2:1.8:1:2 single crystal. The pressures given in the figure are
the values at the superconducting transition temperature. Here we give
the resis

Figure 1: (a) Resistance along the _c_-axis direction for an
IBi-2.2:1.8:1:2 single crystal at various pressures. Pressures in the
figure indicate the values at the superconducting transition
temperature. (b) Superconducting transition temperature T_(c) obtained
from (a) as a function of pressure. The numbers give the order of
measurements, and the solid line is obtained by the least-squares
method^(∘).

tance instead of the resistivity, since the geometrical factors for the
measurement along the c-axis direction are poorly known. It is evident
from Fig. 1(a), contrary to the results for the pristine crystal, that
T_(c) decreases with increasing pressure, indicating that the hole
concentration is located in the overdoped region. Here we assume, and
later show, that the hole concentration of the intercalated compound
increases with pressure. It is also evidence that the charge transfer
between intercalated iodine atoms and CuO₂ layers does occur through
iodine intercalation. The symbols (triangles and solid diamonds) in the
figure show the resistance measured under released pressures in order to
check whether or not intercalated iodine escapes from the crystal with
increasing pressure. The very small deviation from the circles (ambient
pressure) and solid diamonds (released ambient pressure) implies
intercalated iodine is stable in the applied pressure range. Figure 1(b)
shows the pressure dependence of the T_(c) obtained from Fig. 1(a). Here
the T_(c) in the figure is defined as the temperature at which the
resistance drops to half of its extrapolated normal-state value. That
the T_(c) decreases from 83.0 K (Ref. [16]) to 73.6 K through
intercalation at ambient pressure is in agreement with the results of
others.[3, 7] Under pressure, the T_(c) drops almost linearly with
increasing pressure, with a large negative pressure derivative
dT_(c)/dP =  − 3.6 K/GPa, obtained by the least-squares method.

Figure 2(a) shows the temperature dependence of the electric resistance
in the ab plane at various pressures for another IBi-2.2:1.8:1:2 single
crystal. The pressures in the figure, as in Fig. 1(a), are the values at
T_(c) which has been defined as above. Clearly, the T_(c) in the ab
plane, having the same tendency as that along the c-axis direction,
shifts to lower temperatures with pressure. The linear variation of the
T_(c) with pressure is given in Fig. 2(b). The value dT_(c)/dP =  − 3.5
K/GPa, which was obtained by the least-squares method, is similar to the
value in the c-axis measurement, although these values were obtained
from two measurements on two different crystals.

One possible explanation for the negative pressure derivative is that
after iodine intercalation the hole concentration in the CuO₂ layers
increases, placing the sample in the overdoped region. It seems that the
only possible origin of the increased hole content is from the
intercalated iodine, since oxygen is not evolved at 200 degC in this
system.[20] If oxygen loss did occur at this temperature, however, the
hole concentration would decrease[20] and the pressure derivative
dT_(c)/dP would remain positive, contrary to our result. From the above
considerations, the valence state of intercalated iodine should be
negative, as inferred from the increase of the hole concentration in the
CuO₂ layers.

In Fig. 3 we present the **I**3d core level XPS spectra, showing both
I3d_(5/2) and I3d_(3/2) states, on an IBi-2.2:1.8:1:2 crystal, compared
with KI, KIO₃, and KIO₄, in order to determine the valence state of
iodine in the crystal. No energy shift of the iodine main peaks was
observed after a long-term etching by Ar⁺, indicating that the valence
state of iodine is invariant through the crystal. Detailed values of the
binding energy for these

Figure 3: XPS iodine 3d spectra for an IBi-2.2:1.8:1:2 single crystal
and KI, KIO₃, and KIO₄ samples.

Figure 2: (a) Resistance in the ab plane for an IBi-2.2:1.8:1:2 single
crystal at various pressures. Pressures in the figure indicate the
values at the superconducting transition temperature. (b)
Superconducting transition temperature T_(c) obtained from (a) as a
function of pressure. The numbers give the order of measurements, and
the solid line is obtained by the least-squares method.

samples are listed in Table 1. From the figure and table, it is clear
that the binding energy of I 3d5/2 and I 3d3/2 peaks for IBi-2.2:1.8:1:2
is close to that in KI. On the other hand, there are two small peaks
(636.3 and 624.2 eV) in IBi-2.2:1.8:1:2, which closely correspond to the
binding energies found in KIO4. One explanation of these peaks6 is the
existence of a small proportion of I7+. However, our XPS spectra on KI
(with a purity of 99.5

To determine the variation of the hole concentration in the CuO2 layers,
the Hall coefficient in the _ab_ plane was measured under various
pressures for an IBi-2.2:1.8:1:2 crystal. Of course, the Hall
coefficient of IBi-2.2:1.8:1:2, as the other superconductors,11 is
temperature and pressure dependent. Here, however, only the data at room
temperature were given and the result of the iodine intercalated crystal
was compared with that of the pristine crystal which has been
reported.16 The measurement of the dependence of the Hall coefficient
with pressure for pristine and iodine intercalated crystals at low
temperature is being prepared. In Fig. 4 the dependence of the Hall
coefficient with pressure is shown for IBi-2.2:1.8:1:2, compared with
that for Bi-2.2:1.8:1:2.16 At ambient pressure, a decrease of the Hall
coefficient after intercalation indicates an increase of the hole
concentration in the _ab_ plane. If the Hall coefficient R_(H) and the
hole concentration n_(p) satisfy the relation R_(H) = 1/_en__p_, the
number of holes per formula unit is 0.44 and 0.74 for pristine and
intercalated crystals, respectively. As discussed previously, the
increase of the hole concentration is only due to the charge transfer
from the intercalated iodine; thus, the number of holes donated by one
intercalated iodine atom is 0.3. On the other hand, the Hall coefficient
decreases linearly with pressure for both crystals, and the pressure
derivative of the Hall coefficient is -0.23 x 10-3 and -0.39 x 10-3 cm3
C-1 GPa-1 for pristine and intercalated crystals, respectively. After
intercalation, the negative derivative value became nearly twice as
large as that of the pristine crystal. The increase of the negative
derivative value can be explained by two reasons. One is the difference
of compressibility in the intercalated and pristine crystals. In fact,
the expansion of the c axis after iodine intercalation will probably
increase the compressibility of the lattice and lead to an increase in
the negative derivative value. The other is the transfer of the holes
from the intercalated iodine to the _ab_ plane. As mentioned above, the
valence state of the intercalated iodine has been investigated by
several groups. According to the present result, neutral molecular
iodine (I2) seems impossible because it cannot explain the increase of
holes in the CuO2 layers at ambient pressure and, thus, the negative
pressure derivative of T_(c). In addition, if the valence state of
iodine were a coexistence of I- and I7+, a possible direction of the
valence change under pressure, from the viewpoint of the crystal
structure, is from I- to I7+ due to their different ionic radii [I-0.2
nm, I7+  0.06 nm (Ref. 21)], and thus the pressure derivative of the
Hall coefficient for the iodine intercalated crystal will be smaller
than that on the pristine one, if the compressibility in both the
crystals is assumed to be the same, which is contrary to our
Hall-coefficient result under pressure. The valence state of iodine in
IBi-2.2:1.8:1:2 is probably an I3- molecular anion state as considered
in Ref. 9, since the mean valence of I3- fits our Hall-coefficient
result within experimental accuracy. At high pressure, the I3- molecular
anion probably decomposes as follows: I3- - 3I- + 2p (_p_ is the hole).
This assumption, however, still needs to be further verified, e.g., an
experiment of Raman scattering under high pressure.

The Hall-coefficient dependence of T_(c) for pristine and intercalated
Bi-2.2:1.8:1:2 single crystals is presented in Fig. 5. The shape of the
curve is bell like, which is in agreement with that reported recently by
Klotz and Schilling,22 if our linear relation between Hall coefficient
and pressure is still satisfied until 5 GPa. The bell-like dependence of
T_(c) on pressure is reported both in the bismuth-based superconductor
and the yttrium-based one as well.23 On the other hand, the T_(c) as a
function of the oxygen content for Bi-2.2:1:2 was shown to be an
inverted parabola.24,25 Here it is necessary to point out the difference
between the Hall concentration in the _ab_ plane and that in the CuO2
layer. In the present study, the Hall coefficient was measured on the
_ab_ plane, not only on the CuO2 layers. For a Bi-2:2:1:2
superconductor, besides the CuO2 layers, the Bi2O2 layers can be thought
of as

  ----------------- ------------ ------------ ---------
      Material       3d5/2 (eV)   3d3/2 (eV)   Valence
   IBi-2.2:1.8:1:2     619.2        630.4         ?
         KI            619.2        630.9        −1
        KIO3           623.7        635.2        +5
        KIO4           624.3        635.9        +7
  ----------------- ------------ ------------ ---------

Table 1: Binding energies of I 3d core level and valence of iodine.

Figure 4: Pressure dependence of the Hall coefficient in the _ab_ plane
for an IBi-2.2:1.8:1:2 single crystal, compared with the results of the
pristine crystal. The solid lines are obtained by the least-squares
method.

another type of conductive layer.[26] The total measured Hall
concentration may come from both layers. For the intercalated crystal,
similarly, we cannot naively consider that the intercalated iodine only
provide carriers to the CuO₂ layers. The observed change of the
conductive behavior along the c-axis direction is an indication that
some charge is transferred between the intercalated iodine and the Bi₂O₂
layers. In Fig. 6, we show the pressure dependence of the resistivity
ratio ρ(300 K)ρ(100 K) on the c-axis direction. It is clear from the
figure that the conductive behavior is semiconductor like and metal like
for pristine and intercalated crystals, respectively. Under pressure,
the ratio for the pristine crystal is nearly pressure independent,
whereas for the intercalated crystal it increases markedly with
pressure.

Last, we have to mention here whether the expansion of the c axis is
unfavorable for T_(c) is still unknown from our experiments, because the
pressure-induced charge transfer plays an important role in our samples.
Xiang _et al._ suggested[3] that the decrease of T_(c) was directly
proportional to the expansion of the crystal along the c-axis direction;
i.e., T_(c) decreases 10 and 5 K for stage-1 and 2 samples,
respectively. Using the same values of the compressibility on the
Bi-2.2:1:2 crystal,[27] we can evaluate the increase in T_(c) under
pressure according to the above suggestion. The increase in T_(c) is too
small ( < 0.7 K under 1 GPa) to compare with the decrease in T_(c)
induced by charge transfer under pressure.

## IV Conclusion

The superconducting transition temperature T_(c) and the Hall
coefficient have been measured on IBi_(2.2)Sr_(1.8)CaCu₂O_(8 + y) single
crystals under hydrostatic pressure as high as 1.2 GPa. In our pressure
region, the iodine is stable in the crystal. The T_(c) of the
intercalated crystals, contrary to the pristine ones, shows a linear
decrease at the rate dT_(c)/dP =  − 3.5 K/GPa in the ab plane for one
sample and dT_(c)/dP =  − 3.6 K/GPa along the c-axis direction for
another sample, respectively. This result indicates that a positive
charge transfer occurs between intercalated iodine and the CuO₂ layers,
leaving the hole concentration in the overdoped region. This conclusion
has been further confirmed by our Hall-coefficient measurement at
ambient pressure, which shows a decrease of the Hall coefficient, i.e.,
an increase of the hole concentration, after intercalation. The number
of holes transferred from the intercalated iodine atoms was estimated to
be 0.3 per iodine atom, which is in quantitative agreement with one of
the Raman-scattering studies in which the iodine is ionized as an
I₃-molecular anion. The pressure derivative of the Hall coefficient is
−0.39 × 10⁻³ cm³ GPa⁻¹, which is approximately twice as large as the
value for the pristine crystal, indicating a valence change of
intercalated iodine under pressure.

## Acknowledgment

Part of this work was made possible by a Grant-in Aid for Scientific
Research, Science of New Superconductors from Ministry of Education,
Science and Culture.

## References

* [1] A. M. K. , _J. Phys. Soc. Jpn._**68**, 144 (1990).

[MISSING_PAGE_POST]

**254**, 1487 (1991). * [6] D. Pooke, K. Kishio, T. Koga, Y. Fukuda, N.
Sanada, M. Nagoshi, K. Kitazawa, and K. Yamafuji, Physica C **198**, 349
(1992). * [7] A. Fujiwara, Y. Koike, K. Sasaki, M. Mochida, T. Noji, and
Y. Saito, Physica C **203**, 411 (1992). * [8] C. H. Qiu, S. P.
Ahrenkiel, N. Wada, and T. F. Ciszek, Physica C **185-189**, 825
(1991). * [9] E. Faulques and R. E. Russo, Solid State Commun. **82**,
531 (1992). * [10] C. Murayama, Y. Iye, T. Enomoto, A. Fukushima, N.
Mori, Y. Yamada, and T. Matsumoto, Physica C **185-189**, 1293 (1991). *
[11] C. Murayama, Y. Iye, T. Enomoto, N. Mori, Y. Yamada, T. Matsumoto,
Y. Kubo, Y. Shimakawa, and T. Manako, Physica C **183**, 277 (1991). *
[12] M. Kosuge, T. Maeda, K. Sakuyama, T. Miyatake, N. Koshizuka, H.
Yamauchi, H. Takahashi, C. Murayama, and N. Mori, Phys. Rev. B **45**,
10 713 (1992). * [13] J. J. Neumeier and H. A. Zimmermann, Phys. Rev. B
**47**, 8385 (1993). * [14] Y. Koike, Y. Iwabuchi, S. Hosoya, N.
Kobayashi, and T. Fukase, Physica C **159**, 105 (1989). * [15] A.
Maeda, M. Hase, I. Tsakada, K. Noda, S. Takebayashi, and K. Uchinokura,
Phys. Rev. B **41**, 6418 (1990). * [16] T. Huang, M. Itoh, J. Yu, Y.
Inaguma, and T. Nakamura, Phys. Rev. B **48**, 7712 (1993). * [17] M. A.
Crusellas, J. Fontcuberta, S. Pinol, T. Grenet, and J. Beille, Physica C
**180**, 313 (1991). * [18] J. D. Thompson, Rev. Sci. Instrum. **55**,
231 (1984). * [19] T. Huang, M. Itoh, Y. Inaguma, T. Nakamura, and H.
Ishii, Rep. Res. Lab. Eng. Mater. Tokyo Inst. Technol. **18**, 83
(1993). * [20] M. Nagoshi, T. Suzuki, Y. Fukuda, K. Terashima, Y.
Nakanishi, M. Ogita, A. Tokiwa, Y. Syono, and M. Tachiki, Phys. Rev. B
**43**, 10 445 (1991). * [21] R. D. Shannon, Acta Crystallogr. A **32**,
751 (1976). * [22] S. Klotz and J. S. Schilling, Physica C **209**, 499
(1993). * [23] E. N. van Eenige, R. Griesen, K. Heeck, H. G. Schnack, R.
J. Wijngaarden, J.-Y. Genoud, T. Graf, A. Junod, and J. Muller, Europhys
Lett. **20**, 41 (1992). * [24] C. Alleger and J. S. Schilling, Physica
C **68**, 499 (1990). * [25] W. A. Groen, D. M. de Leeuw, and L. F.
Feiner, Physica C **165**, 55 (1990). * [26] M. R. Presland, J. L.
Tallon, R. G. Buckley, R. S. Liu, and N. E. Flower, Physica C **176**,
95 (1991). * [27] J. S. Olsen, S. Steenstrup, L. Gerward, and B.
Sundqvist, Phys. Scr. **44**, 211 (1991).

Figure 6: Pressure dependence of the resistivity ratio
ρ( 300  K)ρ( 100  K) along the c-axis direction for pristine and
intercalated single crystals. The shaded line separates two regions
representing semiconductorlike and metal-like regions, respectively.
