# Microwave and magnetotransport properties of RuSr2_R_Cu2O8 (_R_ =
Eu,Gd) doped with Sn

M. Pozek, I. Kupcic, A. Dulcic, A. Hamzic, D. Paar, M. Basletic, and E.
Tafra

Department of Physics, Faculty of Science, University of Zagreb, P.O.
Box 331, HR-10002 Zagreb, Croatia

G. V. M. Williams

Industrial Research Limited, P.O. Box 31310, Lower Hutt, New Zealand

Received 10 December 2007; revised manuscript received 21 April 2008;
published 17 June 2008

###### Abstract

Ru1-xSn,Sr2EuCu2O8 and Ru1-xSn,Sr2GdCu2O8 have been comprehensively
studied by microwave and dc resistivity and magnetoresistivity and by
the Hall measurements. The ruthenium magnetic ordering temperature _T_m
is considerably reduced with increasing Sn content. However, doping with
Sn leads to only slight reduction of the superconducting critical
temperature _T_c accompanied with the increase in the upper critical
field _B_c2, indicating an increased disorder in the system and a
reduced scattering length of the conducting holes in CuO2 layers. In
spite of the increased scattering rate, the normal state resistivity and
the Hall resistivity are reduced with respect to the pure compound, due
to the increased number of itinerant holes in CuO2 layers, which
represent the main conductivity channel. Most of the electrons in RuO2
layers are presumably localized, but the observed negative
magnetoresistance and the extraordinary Hall effect lead to the
conclusion that there exists a small number of itinerant electrons in
RuO2 layers that exhibit colossal magnetoresistance.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.77.214514

PACS number(s): 74.70.Pq, 74.25.Fy, 74.25.Ha, 75.47.Gk

## I Introduction

Despite the intensive investigation of ruthenate-cuprates in the last
ten years, a lot of questions about the nature of magnetic order and
superconductivity, in particular their coexistence, are still
unanswered.[1] It is well established that in RuSr2_R_Cu2O8 (Ru1212R,_R_
= Eu, Gd, Y) compounds the magnetic ordering of ruthenium sublattice
occurs at about 130 K. The ordering is predominantly antiferromagnetic
(AFM) with an easy axis perpendicular to the layers and with a weak
ferromagnetic (FM) component parallel to the layers.

While both RuO2 and CuO2 layers may participate in the normal-state
conductivity, the superconducting (SC) properties of Ru1212R compounds
are associated only with the charge carriers in the CuO2 planes, and
are, thus, strongly dependent on the concentration of these carriers.
The related superconducting critical temperature _T_c ranges between 15
K and 50 K, depending on the sample composition and/or sample
preparation conditions. According to the thermopower and Hall
coefficient measurements, pure Ru1212R samples are expected to be
intrinsically underdoped, with the effective hole concentration in the
CuO2 planes nearly equal to p = 0.07.[2]

In high-_T_c superconductors, SC properties are strongly dependent on
the effective hole concentration p in the CuO2 planes. In the optimally
doped systems, the effective hole concentration is estimated to be p =
0.16 holes/Cu. In this respect, in recent years there has been a lot of
experimental effort to adjust the number of charge carriers in the CuO2
planes in Ru1212R samples using different substitutional impurities. The
largest changes in _T_c are found when Ru is partially replaced by Cu
(_T_c = 75 K for 40

There is still an open debate whether RuO2 layers are conducting or not.
The magnetization[13] and nuclear quadrupole resonance (NQR) (Refs. 14
and 15) results suggest that most of the electrons are localized
resulting in Ru4+ ions while magnetoresistivity and Hall
measurements[16].[16] suggest the existence of conductivity in
magnetically ordered RuO2 layers. We shall deal with this question in
our doping study, where the number of charge carriers is modified by the
replacement of Ru ions with Sn. In this paper a comprehensive microwave
study on several Ru1212Eu and Ru1212Gd samples doped with Sn is
reported. One of the samples (Ru0.8Sn0.2Sr2GdCu2O8) is also
characterized by transport, magnetoresistance and Hall measurements, and
the results are compared with our previous measurements.[16, 17]

In this context, it is important to point out the controversy related to
the role of the Sn substitution on Ru sites in Ru1212Gd samples.
McLaughlin _et al.[4, 7]_ and Hassen and Mandal[6]_ reported,
respectively, the increase and decrease in _T_c with doping. It is
possible that this controversy reflects different ways to experimentally
determine _T_c, or might be related to different methods of sample
preparation. Moreover, we shall revise the observation in the Hall study
(Fig. 2 in Ref. 2) in which the increase in the Hall coefficient with
increased Sn content was reported.

## II Experimental details

Ru_(1 − x)Sn_(x)Sr₂_R_Cu₂O₈ (_R_ = Eu or Gd) polycrystalline samples
were prepared by solid state synthesis, as described elsewhere.[5] An
elliptical _(x)TE₁₁₁ copper cavity operating at 9.3 GHz was used for the
microwave measurements. The sample was placed in the center of the
cavity on a sapphire holder. At this position the microwave electric
field has its maximum. External dc magnetic field perpendicular to the
microwave electric field was varied from zero up to 8 T. The temperature
of the sample could be varied from liquid helium to room temperature.
The measured quantity was 1/2Q, the total losses of the cavity loaded by
the sample. It is simply related to the surface resistance of the
material _R_(s)_ which comprises both nonresonant resistance and
resonant spin contributions. The details of the detection scheme are
given elsewhere.[18]

Resistivity, magnetoresistance, and Hall effect measurements were
carried out in the standard six-contact configuration using the
rotational sample holder and the conventional ac technique (22 Hz, 1
mA), in magnetic fields up to 8 T. Temperature sweeps for the
resistivity measurements were performed with carbon-glass and platinum
thermometers, while magnetic field dependent sweeps were done at
constant temperatures which were controlled with a capacitance
thermometer.

## III Results and analyses

### Microwave properties

The temperature dependence of the microwave surface resistance of
various Ru1212Eu (Sn doping x = 0, 0.1, 0.2, 0.3, and 0.4) and Ru1212Gd
(_x_ = 0, 0.2) compounds is shown in Figs. 1(a) and 1(b), respectively.
The data are normalized at T = 200 K, for comparison. We found that, for
the samples of similar geometry, the absolute level of the normal-state
absorption in the Eu-based samples was systematically higher than the
absorption in the Gd-based samples. Moreover, the surface resistance of
the Eu-based samples shows more pronounced rise as the temperature
decreases toward the SC ordering temperature _T_(c)_ than it is the case
in Gd-based samples. The related crossover to the SC state occurs at
lower temperatures. The SC crossover temperature region is rather broad
in these data, resulting in a rather uncertain estimation of _T_(c)_.
This problem can be easily solved by plotting the difference between the
microwave absorption in zero field and in B = 8 T (Fig. 2). Both the
magnetic and SC transitions can be detected here with a much better
accuracy than in Fig. 1.

The magnetic ordering temperature _T_(m)_ of the Ru lattice corresponds
with small peaks clearly seen in Fig. 2. The dependence of _T_(m)_ on
the Sn content x is shown in Figs. 3(a) and 3(b). _T_(m)_ is strongly
suppressed with increasing x in both the Gd- and Eu-based samples (the
magnetic critical temperature _T_(m)_ is reduced nearly by a factor of 2
for Δx = 0.2).

Figure 2: (Color online) Differences in the microwave resistance in zero
field and B = 8 T of (a) Ru_(1 − x)Sn_(x)Sr₂EuCu₂O₈ and (b)
Ru_(1 − x)Sn_(x)Sr₂GdCu₂O₈ for various x. (A considerably smaller signal
of Sn-doped sample with respect to the pure Gd-based sample is mainly
due to the smaller geometry of the former.) This suppression seems to be
a consequence of the reduced content of the Ru magnetic ions (dilution
of the magnetic lattice) and the increased disorder in the Ru lattice.
Similar decrease in T_(m) is found in the samples in which Ru is
replaced by nonmagnetic Nb³⁺ ions² [ΔT_(m) = 30 K for Δx≈ 0.2 (Ref.
[4]]).

T_(c) is here defined by a sudden drop in the difference of the
microwave absorption in zero field and in B= 8 T. Namely, close to
T_(c), superconductivity develops first in the grains. Since the upper
critical fields at those temperatures are lower than 8 T, the applied
magnetic field destroys this superconductivity and brings about an
increase in the microwave resistance. Hence, the drop in Fig. 2
indicates the onset of the SC state in the grains and can be associated
with the intrinsic value of T_(c). The whole sample is expected to
become superconducting at much lower temperatures where the 3D network
of intergranular Josephson junctions is established. T_(c) is clearly
seen in Fig. 2 for all the samples, and its dependence on x is further
shown in Fig. 3. It is clear that the influence of Sn doping on T_(c) is
not nearly as dramatic as the influence on T_(m). In the Gd-based
samples, for example, the replacement of 20

The SC state is further analyzed by measuring the magnetic-field
dependence of the microwave absorption. The results taken at different
temperatures are shown in Fig. 4 for two undoped samples and two
Sn-doped samples. At lower fields (below 0.5 T), the microwave
absorption is strongly field-dependent due to the intergranular
superconductivity dominated by the 3D Josephson network. At higher
fields, all the Josephson junctions are driven to the normal state, and
superconductivity is localized only in the grains. The microwave
absorption grows slowly in this field range as the number of vortices
increases, and it is expected to reach the normal-state absorption at
the upper critical field B_(c2). The microwave magnetoresistance is
therefore a useful tool for the estimation of upper critical fields. If
one assumes that the depinning frequency is lower than the driving
microwave frequency, it suffices to extrapolate the microwave absorption
curves to the normal-state values and determine B_(c2). However, this
simple determination of B_(c2) is not possible in cases where the
depinning frequency is comparable to the driving frequency. Then, one
has to take into account also the frequency shift. The details of the
complete procedure are explained in Ref. [19]. The shape of the
low-temperature microwave magnetoresistance curves of the Gd-based
samples [T= 5 K curves in Figs. 4(c) and 4(d)] points at the regime
where the two frequencies are comparable to each other. At higher
temperatures, on the other hand, the driving microwave frequency seems
to be larger than the depinning frequency allowing the direct estimation
of the upper critical fields. In the Eu-based samples, the depinning
frequency seems to be low enough even at low temperatures, so that the
upper critical fields can be simply determined in the complete
temperature region of Figs. 4(a) and 4(b).

The upper critical fields B_(c2) estimated from the curves in Fig. 4
(and similar curves for other samples not shown here) are plotted in
Fig. 5. The comparison of B_(c2) estimated in two Eu-based samples, x=0
and 0.3, is shown in Fig. 5(a). The analogous comparison of B_(c2) in
the Gd-based samples with

Figure 4: (Color online) Magnetic field dependence of the microwave
absorption for (a) RuSr₂EuCu₂O₈, (b) Ru_(0.2)Sn_(0.3)Sr₂EuCu₂O₈, (c)
RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈, and (d) Ru_(0.8)Sn_(0.2)Sr₂GdCu₂O₈ measured at various
temperatures.

x=0 and 0.2 is given in Fig. 5(b). From these figures one can see that
the upper critical fields in the Gd-based samples are lower than in the
Eu-based samples, and, in both cases, the upper critical fields are
higher in the doped samples than in the undoped samples. Bearing in mind
that higher B_(c2) means lower Ginzburg-Landau coherence length, which,
in turn, depends on the electron mean free path, one concludes that the
disorder in the undoped Eu-based samples is higher than in the undoped
Gd-based samples, and that the Sn doping introduces an additional
disorder in both systems. The low-temperature (T=5 K and 10 K)
dependence of the upper critical field on the Sn concentration x in the
Eu-based samples is also shown [Fig. 5(c)]. From Fig. 5(c), we can see
that the upper critical field increases with x for low to moderate
concentrations, while for the highest concentration (x =0.4) B_(c2) is
suppressed. The drop of B_(c2) in the x=0.4 sample is related to the
drop of T_(c) in Fig. 3(a).

### Magnetotransport properties

In order to clarify the role of the disorder introduced by Sn doping, we
extend the experimental study and analysis to transport coefficients. We
have chosen the doped sample Ru_(0.8)Sn_(0.2)Sr₂GdCu₂O₈ which exhibits a
sharp SC onset in Fig. 2(b), and measured its resistivity,
magnetoresistivity, and Hall resistivity.

Figure 6(a) shows the resistivity measured in zero magnetic field and in
μ₀H=8 T. In both cases, the resistivity at 200 K is 9.5 mΩ cm, which is
much lower than 15.5 mΩ cm of the undoped sample.[16] In zero field, one
observes a relatively broad SC transition characterized by the change in
the magnitude from 90

The onset of superconductivity in the grains is better seen if the
resistivity in 8 T is subtracted from the zero-field resistivity, as
shown in Fig. 6(b). The subtraction also reveals the existence of a
broad maximum at the magnetic ordering temperature T=T_(m)≈75 K. This
peak can be further analyzed using magnetic field dependent resistivity
measurements. The relative transversal magnetoresistivity
[ρ(H, T)−ρ(0, T)]⋅ρ(0, T) is shown in Fig. 7 in a large temperature
range from 140 K down to the superconducting transition. The curves are
grouped in five subsets according to temperature intervals in Fig. 6(b)
labeled by (a), (b), (c), (d), and (e), exhibiting several qualitatively
different physical situations.

At temperatures well above T_(m) [Fig. 7(a)], the magnetoresistivity is
characterized by the negative quadratic-in-field behavior similar to the
magnetic-field dependence observed in dilute alloys containing
uncorrelated magnetic impurities.[20] With decreasing temperature the
correlations between magnetic Ru ions start to play an important role
and the quadratic-in-field magnetoresistance transforms into the
linear-in-field behavior. The same trend can also be seen for
temperatures below T_(m) [Fig. 7(b)], but not too close to T_(c). Not
surprisingly, the same linear-in-field behavior was already observed in
undoped and in La-doped samples in the vicinity of T_(m).[16, 17] Just
below T_(m), supposed to the negative linear magnetoresistivity, a small
positive component develops at low fields, which is related to the AFM
ordering of the Ru lattice. The same positive contribution is also
observed in the longitudinal configuration (i.e., H||I). Finally, it
should be noticed that the negative magnetoresistivity of Figs. 7(a) and
7(b) does not show any sign of saturation up to μ₀H =8 T.

Figures 7(c) and 7(d) reveal a relatively complicated behavior of the
magnetoresistivity at temperatures between 57 and 47 K. The positive AFM
contribution decreases rapidly and vanishes below 53 K. Below 49 K one
observes positive contribution, presumably related to the SC
fluctuations. The resulting magnetoresistivity, which is the sum of the
positive SC and negative FM contribution, yields a local minimum.
Finally, below T=47 K, the positive contribution to the
magnetoresistivity related to the SC ordering of the conducting layers
starts to dominate. The sharp increase in the magnitude of the relative
magnetoresistivity in this temperature

Figure 6: (Color online) (a) Resistivity of Ru_(0.8)Sn_(0.2)Sr₂GdCu₂O₈
measured in zero field (black line) and in B=8 T (red line). The inset
shows the comparison of resistivity with the resistivity of the undoped
sample (thin line) (Ref. 16) (b) Difference between the zero-field and 8
T resistivities. The five temperature intervals labeled by (a), (b),
(c), (d), and (e) correspond to subsets of MR curves in Fig. 7.

region, shown in Fig. 7(e), reflects the sharp decrease in ρ(0, T) in
Fig. 6(a).

### Hall resistance

So far we have established two seemingly opposed observations: the
resisitivity of the Sn-doped sample is lowered with respect to the pure
compound, while the electron relaxation rates (proportional to the
resisitivity) increase with the Sn concentration x (as estimated from
the x dependence of B_(c2)). This controversy could have been trivially
explained if the intergranular conductivity in the pure sample was much
lower than in the Sn-doped sample. However, this explanation is not very
likely for three reasons: (i) The samples were prepared under the same
conditions. (ii) From the microwave measurements in Fig. 4, one can see
that in both samples one third of the absorption occurs between grains,
indicating that the intergranular structure in both samples is similar.
(iii) If there were differences in the intergranular composition of the
two samples, one would expect a larger amount of spurious phases in the
Sn-doped sample than in the pure one.[21] In order to resolve the above
controversy, we have measured the Hall resistance in which the
relaxation rates cancel out in the first approximation, allowing in this
way the estimation of the x dependence of the effective number of charge
carriers.

The Hall resistivity of Ru_(0.8)Sn_(0.2)Sr₂GdCu₂O₈ as a function of
magnetic field is shown in Fig. 8(a), for two temperatures below T_(m),
and compared to the results of the undoped sample.[16] A nonlinear
increase in the Hall resistivity, which is the combination of the
ordinary and extraordinary Hall contributions, and is a characteristic
of magnetic metals, is observed at low fields. At high applied fields, a
linear increase dominates, representing the ordinary Hall contribution
only. The magnitude of the extraordinary contribution is smaller than
that in the undoped sample [dotted line in Fig. 8(a)].

The average values of the Hall coefficient R_(H) =dρ_(xy)/d(μ₀H) are
further plotted in Fig. 8(b) for low and high fields. Both, the low- and
high-field slopes are smaller than for the pure compound. In particular,
the absolute value of the ordinary R_(H) is roughly 30

Figure 8: (Color online) (a) Magnetic field dependence of the Hall
resistivity in Ru_(0.8)Sn_(0.2)Sr₂GdCu₂O₈ at T=60 K (circles) and T =48
K (squares). The Hall resistivity of the undoped RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈ at T=124 K
is shown by the dotted line for comparison (Ref. [16]). (b) Temperature
dependence of the low- (open circles) and high-field (full squares) Hall
coefficients of Ru_(0.8)Sn_(0.2)Sr₂GdCu₂O₈. The averaged high-field Hall
coefficients of the pure RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈ and the La-doped
RuSr_(1.9)La_(0.1)GdCu₂O₈ are indicated by the arrows for comparison.

Figure 7: (Color online) Magnetoresistance of Ru_(0.8)Sn_(0.2)Sr₂GdCu₂O₈
in various temperature ranges. The values at 43.4 K and 40 K in (e) are
divided by factors of 3 and 10, respectively.

cell volume of Ru1212Gd, the result is R_(H) =1.065 * 10-9/(2_p_) m3/C.
The measured high-field Hall coefficients indicated in Fig. 8(b) lead to
p = 0.05, 0.07 and 0.03 for the pure, Sn-doped and La-doped samples,
respectively.

## IV Discussion of transport coefficients

In the following, we shall first show that the main changes in the
present zero-field resistivity data, and in the (high-field) ordinary
Hall coefficient data with Sn doping (which amounts to several tens of
percent according to the inset of Fig. 6(a) and Fig. 8), can be
explained by using a single-component model for the conductivity tensor
(Sec. IV A), at variance with the experimental results reported in Ref.
[2] which have been found to require the two-component model, with the
charge carriers in the RuO₂ layers almost completely delocalized (notice
in this respect a quite large ratio $\sigma_{\rm Ru}/\sigma_{\rm Cu}$ =
0.5 in Fig. 1 of Ref. [2], estimated from the thermopower data at T <
100 K).

Within the present single-component model, only CuO₂ layers contribute
to the observed conductivity, while the contributions of the RuO₂ layers
to the total conductivity are small for the external magnetic fields
absent and can be safely neglected in the first step.

Then, we shall argue, in subsection IV B, that this single-component
model fails to account for the observed contribution to the
magnetoresistivity (changes of the order of a few percent in Fig. 6),
and the (low-field) Hall coefficient. Consequently, in order to
successfully explain all our experimental observations, we have to go
beyond the single-component model and take into account a presumably
small number of itinerant electrons in the RuO₂ layers with a presumably
strong coupling to the magnetic moments of the Ru ions.

When comparing two two-band models (the present one and that of Ref.
[2]), one is left to answer two questions which are fundamental to the
quantitative understanding of the physics of the ruthenate-cuprates:
first, to which extent the charge carriers in the RuO₂ layers are
delocalized, and, second, the relative magnitude of the interactions
between the Ru magnetic subsystem and the itinerant charge carriers in
the CuO₂ layers and in the RuO₂ layers. In this context, the motivation
for the two-step analysis of our data comes from the results of the
zero-field NMR (NQR) experiments in the pure Ru1212Gd (Refs. [14] and
[15]) and the related band structure calculations.[23] The number of
electrons in RuO₂ layers is equal to the number of holes doped into the
CuO₂ plane. Naively, Ru⁴⁺ ion can be visualized as a composition of Ru⁵⁺
ion and one extra electron. In this picture, the basic question is as to
which extent this extra electron is localized to the parent Ru⁵⁺ ion. In
Ru-NQR experiments, two well-distinguished signals are found,
corresponding to Ru⁵⁺ with the spin state S = 3/2 and Ru⁴⁺ with the spin
state S = 1. These results suggest that most of the electrons are
localized (leading to Ru⁴⁺ with the spin state S = 1), which means that
the number of itinerant (delocalized) electrons in the RuO₂ layers is
small. In NQR, it is also found that the magnetic order in the RuO₂
layers coexists with the SC order in the CuO₂ planes down to T = 1.4 K.
Finally, the NQR frequency ν₀⁶³ = 30 MHz measured on ⁶³Cu nuclei,[15,
24] which is close to ν_(Q)⁶³ measured in the underdoped
YBa₂Cu₃O_(6 + x) compounds,[25] puts Ru1212R systems into the high-_T_c
superconductors with an intermediate copper-oxygen hybridization and,
consequently, an intermediate value of _T_c.[26]

The band structure calculations,[23] on the other hand, suggest the
itinerant character of electrons in the RuO₂ layers, rather than the
localized character, but all other conclusions of Ref. [23] are
consistent with the NQR observations. Namely, there are three bands
crossing E_(F), the first two are related to two CuO₂ layers, while the
third one is related to the RuO₂ layer. The magnetic ordering and the
calculated magnitude of the magnetic moments of Ru ions are also
consistent with the local magnetic fields measured by NQR.[14, 15]
Particularly important is the observation that two CuO₂ bands are not
influenced significantly by the magnetism of the RuO₂ layers. Namely,
the Cu d_(x² − y²) states and the Ru d_(xy) states, which participate in
three conduction bands, hybridize, respectively, with the p_(z) and
_p__x(y)_ apex oxygen states, which are mutually orthogonal. The direct
magnetic coupling (via apex oxygens only) between the charge carriers in
these two subsystems thus vanishes for symmetry reasons.

In the present analysis, we neglect the presumably small coupling of the
charge carriers (holes) in the CuO₂ layers to the Ru magnetic subsystem,
and take that the effective concentration of these holes _n_Cu is
proportional to p (_n_Cu  ∼ 2p/V₀) rather than to 1 + p. The latter
proportionality is a consequence of the pseudogap formation due to the
AFM fluctuation in the CuO₂ planes (see for example Ref. [27]). Thus,
_n_Cu nearly measures the hole concentration in the CuO₂ bands with
respect to the half-filling. The effective concentration of itinerant
electrons in the RuO₂ layers _n_Ru is assumed to be small in comparison
to the value 2p/V₀ characterizing the completely delocalized case, but,
importantly, they are strongly coupled to the magnetic subsystem.

### Resistivity and ordinary Hall coefficient

In the presence of the magnetic background of Ru⁵⁺/Ru⁴⁺ ions and
external magnetic fields, the conductivity tensor in question is given
by[28]

$$\sigma_{xx}=\sigma_{yy}=\frac{e^{2}}{m}(\tau_{\rm Cu}\vec{n}_{xx}^{\rm Cu}+ \tau_{\rm Ru}\vec{n}_{xx}^{\rm Ru}),$$

$$\sigma_{xy}=-\sigma_{yx}=\frac{e^{2}}{m}\omega_{0}(\vec{\tau}_{\rm Cu}\vec{n} _{xy}^{\rm Cu}+\tau_{\rm Ru}^{2}\vec{n}_{xy}^{\rm Ru})+\sigma_{xy}^{\rm ex}.$$
(1)

The first term in the off-diagonal component σ_(xy) comes from the
Lorentz force and is proportional to H (ω₀ is the cyclotron frequency).
The second term, $\sigma_{xy}^{\rm ex}$, includes all extraordinary
contributions and is proportional to the magnetization of the Ru
lattice, which means that the dependence on H is given in terms of the
Brillouin function B_(S)(gμ₀βSH). According to Ref. [23], the
contributions of two bands in Eq. (1) can be regarded as decoupled
(i.e., the hybridization between the CuO₂ and RuO₂ bands is negligible).
The structure of the effective numbers $\vec{n}_{xx}^{\rm f}$, i = Cu,
Ru and α, β = x, y, for this case is given in the Appendix. For weak
magnetic fields, for example, we obtain
$\vec{n}_{xx}^{\rm Cu}=\vec{n}_{xy}^{\rm Cu}=n_{\rm Cu}$ and
$\vec{n}_{xx}^{\rm Ru}=-\vec{n}_{xy}^{\rm Ru}=n_{\rm Ru}$, with
$n_{\rm Cu}$ and $n_{\rm Ru}$ defined above. $\tau_{\rm Cu}$ and
$\tau_{\rm Ru}$ are, respectively, the relaxation times of holes and
electrons averaged over two spin projections. For weak magnetic fields,
it is reasonable to assume that not only $\pi_{\alpha\beta}^{\rm Ru}$ is
small, when compared to $\pi_{\alpha\beta}^{\rm Cu}$ but also the
relaxation rate in the RuO₂ layers $1/\tau_{\rm Ru}$ is much larger than
$1/\tau_{\rm Cu}$ due to the presence of magnetic ions and the
substitutional impurities in the RuO₂ layers. Thus,
$\sigma_{\alpha\beta}^{\rm Cu}$≫$\sigma_{\alpha\beta}^{\rm Ru}$ for H=0.
But, as mentioned above, the main effects in the magnetoresistivity are
expected to come from the field dependence of $\sigma_{xx}^{\rm Ru}$
[labeled hereafter by $\delta\delta_{xx}^{\rm Ru}$ =
(e²/m)$\delta\tau_{\rm Ru}$$\pi_{xx}^{\rm Ru}$].

For weak magnetic fields, the general expressions for the Hall
resistivity and magnetoresistivity

$$\rho_{xy}=\frac{\sigma_{xy}}{\sigma_{xx}\sigma_{yy}+\sigma_{xy}^{2}},$$

$$\rho_{xx}=\frac{\sigma_{xx}}{\sigma_{xx}\sigma_{yy}+\sigma_{xy}^{2}},$$
(2)

lead to

$$\rho_{xy}\approx\frac{\sigma_{xy}^{\rm Cu}+\sigma_{xy}^{\rm Ru}}{(\sigma_{xx }^{\rm Cu}+\sigma_{xx}^{\rm Ru})^{2}},$$

$$\rho_{xx}\approx\frac{m}{e^{2}}\frac{\sigma_{xx}^{\rm Cu}+\sigma_{xx}^{\rm Ru}} {\sigma_{xx}^{\rm Ru}}.$$
(3)

i.e.,

$$\rho_{xy}\approx\frac{m}{e^{2}}\frac{\omega_{0}(\tau_{\rm Cu}^{2}\mu_{\rm Cu}- \tau_{\rm Ru}^{2}n_{\rm Ru})+(m/e^{2})\sigma_{xy}^{\rm ex,Ru}}{(\tau_{\rm Cu} \mu_{\rm Cu}+\tau_{\rm Ru}n_{\rm Ru})^{2}},$$

$$\rho_{xx}\approx\frac{m}{e^{2}}\frac{\omega_{0}}{\tau_{\rm Cu}\mu_{\rm Cu}+ \tau_{\rm Ru}n_{\rm Ru}}.$$
(4)

The Hall coefficient is given by R_(H)=dρ_(xy)/d(μ₀H). The anomalous
contributions (the negative magnetoresistivity and the extraordinary
Hall coefficient) are hidden here in $\delta\delta_{xx}^{\rm Ru}$ and
$\sigma_{xy}^{\rm ex,Ru}$, and we put
$\delta\sigma_{xx}^{\rm Ru}$=$\sigma_{xy}^{\rm ex,Ru}$=0 in the rest of
this subsection.

In the Sn-doped samples, the replacement of any Ru atom by Sn introduces
one extra hole in the system, which is redistributed between RuO₂ and
CuO₂ layers. The part of the extra charge which remains in the RuO₂
layers decreases the effective number of itinerant electrons
$n_{\rm Ru}$ ($\Delta n_{\rm Ru}$< 0), thus increasing both the
resistivity and Hall resistivity. One may say that it gives rise to the
conversion of Ru⁴⁺ into Ru⁵⁺. The part of the extra charge transferred
into the CuO₂ layers increases the effective number $n_{\rm Cu}$
($\Delta n_{\rm Cu}$> 0). The experimentally determined decrease in the
normal-state resistivity and the (high-field) Hall coefficient with the
Sn doping (Figs. 6 and 8) shows that a substantial portion of the doped
holes are indeed transferred to the CuO₂ layers and that the small
changes in already small $n_{\rm Ru}$ can be neglected. This scenario is
expected to hold for not too large number of Sn impurities (x≈ 0.3). Our
results should be contrasted to the Sn doping study of McCrone _et al._
(Fig. 2 in Ref. [2]), where the increase in resistivity and the Hall
coefficient was observed for x = 0.2.

As mentioned above, the correlation between $n_{\rm Cu}$ and the
superconducting critical temperature T_(c) is expected to be similar to
the correlations found in the isostructural YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − x) compounds.
The main difference is that a very complicated role of the CuO chains in
supporting superconductivity in the CuO₂ layers is played here by the
magnetically ordered RuO₂ layers. Indeed, the dependence of T_(c) on the
Sn doping x (shown in Fig. 3) is similar to the observation in the
underdoped YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − x) compounds (T_(c) is nearly constant in a
wide range of x, T_(c)≈ 60 K in YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − x)).

A similar scenario also holds for other Ru1212R systems. For example,
the replacement of Sr²⁺ by La³⁺ increases the total number of conduction
electrons in the system. A substantial part of the doped electrons is
transferred to the CuO₂ layers, reducing the effective number
$n_{\rm Cu}$ below the critical value required for superconductivity, in
agreement with experiments. In RuSr_(1.9)La_(0.1)GdCu₂O₈, the
high-temperature resistivity and the high-field Hall resistivity are
found to be increased by roughly 60

### Magnetoresistivity

The magnetoresistivity data of Fig. 7 give us the indirect way to study
the magnetic properties of the Ru lattice. In the model described above,
we can write

$$\frac{\Delta\rho_{xx}}{\rho_{xx}(0)}=\frac{\rho_{xx}(H)-\rho_{xx}(0)}{\rho_{xx} (0)}\approx\frac{\sigma_{xx}^{\rm Ru}(0)}{\sigma_{xx}(0)}\frac{\delta\rho_{xx} ^{\rm Ru}}{\rho_{xx}^{\rm Ru}(0)},$$
(5)

with σ_(xx)(0) and $\sigma_{xx}^{\rm Ru}(0)$ being, respectively, the
zero-field total conductivity and the zero-field conductivity of the
RuO₂ subsystem. The first factor is nearly proportional to
$n_{\rm Ru}/(n_{\rm Cu}$+$n_{\rm Ru})$ and represents an enhancement
factor dependent on Sn doping. It grows with decreasing $n_{\rm Cu}$, as
can be easily seen from our data taken in three compounds:
Ru_(0.8)Sn_(0.2)Sr_(0.6)GdCu₂O₈, Ru₁Sr₂GdCu₂O₈, and
Ru_(0.9)La_(0.5)Sr₂GdCu₂O₈. The second factor in Eq. (5),
$\delta\rho_{xx}^{\rm Ru}/\rho_{xx}^{\rm Ru}(0)$
≈$-\delta\sigma_{xx}^{\rm Ru}/\sigma_{xx}^{\rm Ru}(0)$, is the
magnetoresistivity of the isolated RuO₂ subsystem, and it is expected to
be similar to that of magnetic metals.[20, 29, 30] Precisely, the
negative quadratic-in-field magnetoresistivity observed at temperatures
well above T_(m) has to be contrasted to the magnetoresistivity of
common high-T_(c) superconductors which is very small and positive.[31]
This high-temperature behavior can be understood as a clear evidence of
the exchange interaction between itinerant electrons in the RuO₂ layers
and the localized Ru spins.[20] The AFM interactions between localized
spins become important at low enough temperatures leading to the
linear-in-field behavior with maximal slope at T≈T_(m) [Figs.
7(a)-7(c)]. We recall that exactly the same temperature evolution of the
magnetoresistivity was found in Ref. [30] for small concentration of
conduction electrons and low stability of the FM state of the localized
spins. Hence, we believe that expression (5) includes all relevant
processes in the magne toresistivity of ruthenate-cuprates in the
nonsuperconducting temperature range.

Taking into account that
$\tau_{\rm Ru}\mu_{\rm Ru}\!\ll\!\tau_{\rm Cu}\!/n_{\rm Cu}$, one can
rewrite Eq. (5) in the form:

$$\frac{\delta\beta_{xx}^{\rm Ru}}{\rho_{xx}^{\rm Ru}(0)}\approx\frac{\tau_{\rm Cu }n_{\rm Cu}}{\tau_{\rm Ru}n_{\rm Ru}}\rho_{xx}(0)=\frac{\tau_{\rm Cu}}{\tau_{ \rm Ru}V_{0}n_{\rm Ru}}\frac{\Delta\rho_{xx}}{\rho_{xx}(0)}\frac{\tau_{0}}{\tau _{\rm Ru}V_{0}n_{\rm Ru}}\frac{\Delta\rho_{xx}}{R_{\rm Pt}}\frac{\Delta\rho_{xx }}{\rho_{xx}(0)},$$
(6)

where Δρ_(xx) = ρ_(xx)(H) − ρ_(xx)(0). Figure 9 shows the field
dependence of the quantity V₀/(R_(H)t)[Δρ_(xx)/ρ_(xx)(0)] for the three
aforementioned samples at their respective magnetic ordering
temperatures. If one assumes, based on the previous subsection, that
$V_{0}n_{\rm Ru}\!<\!0.01$ and $\tau_{\rm Ru}\!<\!\tau_{\rm Cu}$, the
magnetoconductivity of ruthenium layers is estimated to be several tens
of percent at μ₀H = 8 T. The magnitude of this effect is comparable to
the colossal magnetoresistivity of the manganite perovskites.[32]

## V Conclusions

In conclusion, a microwave study of Sn doping in Ru1212 samples has
shown that magnetic ordering is strongly influenced by introduction of
tin into RuO₂ layers, while the superconducting critical temperature
remains practically unchanged.

The magnetic-field dependence of the microwave absorption has shown that
the upper critical field in doped samples is increased, probably due to
the increased disorder. However, in spite of increased disorder, the dc
resistivity measurement in Ru_(0.8)Sn_(0.2)Sr₂GdCu₂O₈ is lower than in
the respective pure compound. We conclude that it is due to the
increased number of holes in the CuO₂ layers. This conclusion is also
confirmed by Hall resistivity measurements presented in this paper.

In Ru_(0.8)Sn_(0.2)Sr₂GdCu₂O₈ magnetoresistivity develops from
quadratic-in-field behavior (characteristic of uncorrelated magnetic
impurities) at high temperatures to linear-in-field behavior close to
T_(m) = 76 K, indicating significant correlations between magnetic Ru
ions. Below T_(m), a small positive component of magnetoresistivity,
related to the AFM ordering of the RuO₂ lattice, is superimposed to the
negative linear magnetoresistivity. As the temperature is lowered below
53 K, the field-induced ferromagnetic order seems to prevail. At the
onset of superconductivity (=48 K) both positive superconducting and
negative ferromagnetic contributions to the same magnetoresistivity
curve occur.

We have shown that the single-component model for the conductivity
tensor suffices to explain the variation of the normal-state resistivity
and the high-field Hall coefficient with doping. The main conductivity
channel is through CuO₂ layers and the various dopings simply change the
number of conducting holes in these layers. However, the low-field Hall
resistivity and the magnetoresistivity provide evidence that there is a
small conduction in magnetically ordered RuO₂ layers. Quantitative
analysis of the observed negative magnetoresistance leads to a quite
remarkable conclusion that a small number of delocalized electrons
displays a colossal magnetoresistance.

###### Acknowledgements.

We acknowledge funding support from the Croatian Ministry of Science,
Education and Sports (projects no. 119-1191458-1022 "Microwave
Investigations of New Materials", no. 119-1191458-0512 "Low-dimensional
strongly correlated conducting systems" and no. 119-1191458-1023
"Systems with spatial and dimensional constraints: correlations and spin
effects"), the New Zealand Marsden Fund, the New Zealand Foundation for
Research Science and Technology, and the Alexander von Humboldt
Foundation.

## Appendix: Conductivity tensor

In the multiband models with the interband hybridization negligible
(Ru1212R systems are the example), the elements of the conductivity
tensor are given by the sum of the intraband terms
σ_(αβ)  =  ∑_(i)σ_(αβ)^(′) (i =  Cu, Ru in the present case). The
presence of magnetic background and external magnetic fields makes, in
the first place, the relaxation rates of conduction electrons
$\Gamma_{i\sigma}({\bf k})\!=\!1/\tau_{i\sigma}({\bf k})$ depend on
spin, and also introduces the extraordinary contributions to the
off-diagonal elements of the conductivity tensor
$\sigma^{\rm ex,i}_{xy}$, as discussed in the main text. In the first
approximation (the case of noninteracting magnetic impurities[20]) we
can write
$\Gamma_{i\sigma}({\bf k})\!=\!\Gamma_{i}\!\pm\alpha_{i}M_{x}$, where
α_(i) is a constant and M_(z) is the total magnetization of the RuO₂
layer. Thus, in the Ru1212R systems, at temperatures well above T_(m),
we have σ_(xx)^(′)  =  σ_(yy)^(′)   =  (e²/m)τ_(iσ)π⃗_(xx)^(′) and
σ_(xx)^(′)  =   − σ_(yx)^(′)   =  (e²/m)ω₀τ_(i)^(′)n⃗_(xy)^(′)  +  σ_(xy)^(′),
with τ_(iσ)n⃗_(xx)^(′) and
$\tau_{i}^{\prime  For weak magnetic fields, the relaxation times independent of \({\bf k}$,
and ${\cal V}_{\alpha\beta}({\bf k})\!\propto\!\delta_{\alpha\beta}$, we
obtain the textbook expressions

$$n_{xx}^{i}\approx\frac{1}{V}\!\sum_{{\bf k}\sigma}m[v_{x}^{i}({\bf k})]^{2}(-) \frac{\partial f_{i\sigma}({\bf k})}{\partial\varepsilon_{i\sigma}({\bf k})},$$

$$n_{xy}^{i}\approx\frac{1}{V}\!\sum_{{\bf k}\sigma}m[v_{x}^{i}({\bf k})]^{2}{ \cal V}_{yy}({\bf k})\frac{\partial f_{i\sigma}({\bf k})}{\partial\varepsilon_ {i\sigma}({\bf k})},$$
(A2)

which we use in the discussion in the main text. The effects of the AFM
correlations on the effective numbers $n_{\alpha\beta}^{\rm Cu}$ are
included here through the dependence of $\varepsilon_{\rm Cu}({\bf k})$,
$v_{x}^{\rm Cu}({\bf k})$, and
${\cal V}_{\alpha\beta}^{\rm Cu}({\bf k})$ on the AFM (pseudo)gap scale,
as explained in detail in Sec. VIA and Fig. 12 of Ref. [27]. The main
result of this analysis is that the effective numbers
$n_{\alpha\beta}^{\rm Cu}$ are proportional to the number of holes p
measured with respect to the half-filled Cu band, rather than to the
total number of holes in the Cu band 1+p.

If magnetic fields are weak and the exchange interaction between the
conduction holes and localized Ru spins is negligible, the field
dependence in the denominators in Eq. (A1) can again be neglected, and
the sum over spin projections gives for the averaged relaxation times of
itinerant electrons the expression
$\Sigma_{\sigma}\tau_{\rm Ruo}({\bf k})\!=\!2{\cal I}_{\rm Ruf}^{0}\!\!\!\!\!/ [({\cal I}_{\rm Ruf}^{0})^{2}\!-\!\alpha_{\rm Ru}^{2}(M_{j})^{2}]$,
resulting in $\delta{\cal I}_{\rm Ruf}^{0}\!\!\propto\!H^{2}$.[20]
According to Eq. (5), this also leads to the total magnetoresistivity
which is negative and quadratic-in-field. The effects of interactions
between localized spins on the conductivity tensor at different
temperatures are expected to be similar to that found in Ref. [30].

## References

* [1] T. Nachtrab, C. Bernhard, L. Chengtian, D. Koelle, and R. Kleiner,
C. R. Phys. **7**, 68 (2006). * [2] J. E. McCrone, J. L. Tallon, J. R.
Cooper, A. C. MacLaughlin, J. P. Attfield, and C. Bernhard, Phys. Rev. B
**68**, 064514 (2003). * [3] P. W. Klamut, B. Dabrowski, S. Kolesnik, M.
Maxwell, and J. M. Mais, Phys. Rev. B **63**, 224512 (2001). * [4] A. C.
Mclaughlin, V. Janowitz, J. A. McAllister, and J. P. Attfield, J. Mater.
Chem. **11**, 173 (2001). * [5] G. V. M. Williams, H. K. Lee, and S.
Kramer, Phys. Rev. B **67**, 104514 (2003). * [6] A. Hassen and P.
Mandal, Supercond. Sci. Technol. **19**, 902 (2006). * [7] A. C.
McLaughlin and J. P. Attfield, Phys. Rev. B **60**, 14605 (1999). * [8]
S. Malo, K. Donggeun, J. T. Rijssenbeek, A. Maignan, D. Pelloquin, V. P.
Dravid, and K. R. Poeppelmeier, Int. J. Inorg. Mater. **2**, 601
(2000). * [9] A. Hassen, J. Hemberger, A. Loidl, and A. Krimmel, Physica
C **400**, 71 (2003). * [10] Y. Yamada, H. Hamada, M. Shimada, S. Kubo,
and A. Matsushita, J. Magn. Magn. Mater. **272-276**, e173 (2004). *
[11] M. Steiger, C. Kongmark, F. Rueckert, L. Harding, and M. S.
Torikachvili, Physica C **453**, 24 (2007). * [12] P. W. Klamut, B.
Dabrowski, J. Mais, and M. Maxwell, Physica C **350**, 24 (2001). * [13]
T. P. Papageorgiou, E. Casini, Y. Skourski, T. Herrmannsdorfer, J.
Freudenberger, H. F. Braun, and J. Wosnitza, Phys. Rev. B **75**, 104513
(2007). * [14] Y. Tokunaga, H. Kotegawa, K. Ishida, Y. Kitaoka, H.
Takagiwa, and J. Akimitsu, Phys. Rev. Lett. **86**, 5767 (2001). * [15]
K. I. Kumagai, S. Takada, and Y. Furukawa, Phys. Rev. B **63**,
180509(R) (2001). * [16] M. Pozek, A. Dulcic, D. Paar, A. Hamzic, M.
Basletic, E. Tafra, G. V. M. Williams, and S. Kramer, Phys. Rev. B
**65**, 174514 (2002). * [17] M. Pozek, A. Dulcic, A. Hamzic, M.
Basletic, E. Tafra, G. V. M. Williams, and S. Kramer, Eur. Phys. J. B
**57**, 1 (2007). * [18] B. Nebendahl, D.-N. Peligrad, M. Pozek, A.
Dulcic, and M. Mehring, Rev. Sci. Instrum. **72**, 1876 (2001). * [19]
D. Janjusevic, M. S. Grbic, M. Pozek, A. Dulcic, D. Paar, B. Nebendahl,
and T. Wagner, Phys. Rev. B **74**, 104501 (2006). * [20] K. Yosida,
Phys. Rev. **107**, 396 (1957). * [21] T. He, Q. Huang, and R. J. Cava,
Phys. Rev. B **63**, 024402 (2000). * [22] Y. Ando, Y. Kurita, S.
Komiya, S. Ono, and K. Segawa, Phys. Rev. Lett. **92**, 197001 (2004). *
[23] K. Nakamura, K. T. Park, A. J. Freeman, and J. D. Jorgensen, Phys.
Rev. B **63**, 024507 (2000). * [24] S. Kramer and G. V. M. Williams,
Physica C **377**, 282 (2002). * [25] H. Yasuoka, T. Imai, and T.
Shimizu, in _Strong Correlations and Superconductivity_, Springer Series
in Solid State Sciences Vol. 89 (Springer, Berlin, 1989), p. 254. * [26]
I. Kupcic, S. Barisic, and E. Tufus, Phys. Rev. B **57**, 8590 (1998). *
[27] I. Kupcic and S. Barisic, Phys. Rev. B **75**, 094508 (2007). *
[28] J. M. Ziman, _Electrons and Phonons_ (Oxford University Press,
London, 1972). * [29] A. Fert, R. Asomoza, D. H. Sanchez, D. Spanjaard,
and A. Friederich, Phys. Rev. B **16**, 5040 (1977). * [30] M. Kataoka,
Phys. Rev. B **63**, 134435 (2001). * [31] J. M. Harris, Y. F. Yan, P.
Matl, N. P. Ong, P. W. Anderson, T. Kimura, and K. Kitazawa, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **75**, 1391 (1995). * [32] J. Fontcuberta, B. Martinez, A.
Seffar, S. Pinol, J. L. Garcia-Munoz, and X. Obradors, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**76**, 1122 (1996).
