Thermodynamic fluctuations and the thermoelectric coefficient in
(Bi1.6Pb0.4)Sr2Ca3(Cu1-_x_Agx)4O12+_d_ superconductors

J. E. Rodriguez and A. Marino

Department of Physics, Universidad Nacional de Colombia, Bogota,
Colombia

13 January 1999; revised manuscript received 25 May 1999

###### Abstract

We present a study of the thermoelectric coefficient L(T) of
polycrystalline silver doped (Bi1.6Pb0.4)Sr2Ca3(Cu1-_x_Agx)4O12+_d_
samples. L(T) relates the thermopower S(T) with electrical conductivity,
σ(T), and gives an indication of the influence of the order parameter
fluctuations (OPF) on S(T) in the mean field region (MFR). The results
of L(T) indicate that the critical behavior of S(T) above the
superconducting transition is driven essentially by σ(T). These results
suggest that, in the MFR, L(T) is not affected by thermodynamic
fluctuations of the superconducting order parameter (OPF). The OPF
effects show a bi-dimensional character in the entire MFR, which is not
affected by Ag doping. For low Ag concentrations, the experimental data
Δσ/σ_(μ) fit well to the Lawrence-Doniach model for layered
superconductors in the MFR. Furthermore, the behavior of ΔL is nearly
temperature independent. [S0163-1829(99)13533-1]

## Introduction

Since in the copper-oxide superconductors ξ(0) is typically two orders
of magnitude smaller than in low temperature superconductors and the
superconducting transition temperature (T_(C)) is one order of magnitude
higher, order parameter fluctuations (OPF) can be observed at accessible
temperatures close to T_(C). Measurements of electrical resistivity ρ(T)
and magnetic susceptibility χ(T) show OPF effects even 10 K above the
critical temperature.[12]

An important and still controversial aspect of the OPF effects in high
temperature superconductors (HTSC) is related with their influence on
the in-plane thermoelectric coefficient L(T), which relates the in-plane
thermopower S(T) and the in plane ρ(T). Different experimental groups
have reported an anomalous peak, sometimes very sharp, in S(T) of
polycrystalline and single crystal HTSC samples near T_(C). This anomaly
however has not been observed in ρ(T) and therefore a strong critical
divergence of L(T) near T_(C) attributed to intrinsic OPF effects would
be observed.

On the other hand, some authors have suggested the existence of a
relationship between the anomalous S(T) peak and sample inhomogeneities,
temperature gradient inhomogeneities, or even experimental artifacts.[3,
4, 5] In the YBCO systems, in the case of fully oxygenated samples, some
results indicate that the thermoelectric coefficient does not present
any sharp critical divergence close and above T_(C).[6, 7] In order to
give some insight on the above fundamental questions, we discuss in this
paper detailed measurements of the thermoelectric power S(T) and the
electrical resistivity ρ(T) rounding above T_(C) of silver doped
(BiPb)₂Sr₂Ca₃Cu₄O_(12 − δ) (BCCCO) polycrystalline samples. We analyze
the OPF effects on both magnitudes in terms of the existing theories.

## Experiment

Polycrystalline samples of nominal composition
(Bi1.6Pb0.4)Sr2Ca3(Cu1-_x_Agx)4O12+_d_, BSCCO-2234, with 0 ⇐x⇐0.1, were
prepared by the solid-state reaction method using high purity powders of
BiO2, PbO, SrO3, CaCO3, CuO, and AgNO3. The materials were ground
thoroughly, preheated at 800 degC for 20 h and then grounded and pressed
(9 ton/cm2) in the form of small pellets. Thereafter the pellets were
sintered at 850 degC for 140 h in air and cooled with the furnace turned
off.

The Ag doping affects the superconducting properties of the BSCCO-2234
system but does not affect the structure of high-T_(C) phase (110 K) as
observed with x-ray diffraction. An increasing of the critical current
density (J_(C)) was observed for x<0.01 and could be associated to
microstructural changes. Part of Ag segregates on the BSCCO grain
boundaries. This effect can either increase the contact surface between
grains by decreasing the grain size or change the weak link type. Larger
doping levels (x>0.01) inhibit the formation of the high-T_(C) phase
(110 K) and decrease J_(C). For x>0.01 the x-ray diffraction patterns
display both multiphase samples (110 K, 80 K, and nonsuperconducting)
and Ag diffractive peaks, which increase by increasing x.[8]

The electrical resistivity measurements were carried out by the four
probe dc method, while the thermoelectric data were obtained using the
differential technique with a temperature gradient, ΔT≈ 0.1 K across the
sample. The temperature was monitored with calibrated copper-constantan
thermocules. Pt-100 sensors were used to know and control the bare
temperature for each measured point. All voltages were measured using a
Keithly nanovoltmeter model 182 with a resolution of 0.05 μV. The
estimated absolute accuracy of the TEP is ∼3

## Results and Discussion

For small thermal gradients the thermoelectric power and the electrical
conductivity are related by the thermoelectric coefficient L(T), which
is defined by[11, 12]

L(T) ≡ S(T)σ(T).
(1)

Therefore in the presence of order parameter fluctuations the
measurements of S(T) can be directly affected by σ(T) or L(T). In order
to analyze the rounding effects on S(T) and ρ(T) close above the
transition temperature and the influence of OPF on S(ε), σ(ε), and L(ε),
it is necessary to determine and quantify the corresponding excess Dσ,
Dρ, and DL, which are defined as [13]

ΔS(ε) = S(ε) − S_(B)(ε),

Δσ(ε) = σ(ε) − σ_(B)(ε),

ΔL(ε) = L(ε) − L_(B)(ε),

where e is the reduced temperature defined as e = ln(_T_/_T_/CS) ≈(T -
T_(CS))/_T_/_CS_, in the case of the thermopower and e ≈(T -
T_(C_(P)))/_T_/_CP_ in the case of resistivity. T_(S) and _T__C__P_ are
the temperatures where ρ(T) and S(T) near the superconducting transition
have the inflection point. For each sample the difference between T_(S)
and _T__C__P_ is less than 0.3 K, which can be attributed to
experimental errors (hereafter referred to as T_(C)).

The excess thermopower, DS(ε), close and above T_(C) is calculated from
the difference between measured thermopower, S(ε), and the extrapolated
one, S_(B)(ε), to low temperatures from the region where the OPF effects
are not present. In our case we use a possible S(T) functional form in
the normal region far away from the transition temperature in order to
diminish one of the largest uncertainty causes. This uncertainty is
related to the thermopower background choice and due to the absence of
an unambiguous functional form for S(T) in the normal region of HTSC.
After several polynomial fittings to our experimental results we have
concluded that in the range 150 K ≈ T ≈ 250 K, S(T) discomposes mainly
in two terms s(T) = αT + β/T, i.e., higher order terms are negligible
[see Fig. 1(a)]. The first term αT is attributed to the carrier
diffusion and the second one, proportional to 1/T, has been associated
with the phonon drag but it should obviously include more than one
contribution. [9, 10] The main characteristic of the S(T) curves for
each sample are displayed in Table 1. In a similar form the measured
resistivity ρ(T) above T_(C) (in the normal state) in zero applied
magnetic field can be well described for all samples, Fig. 1(b), as
ρ_(B)(T) = c + dT. This expression represents the resistivity of each
sample in the normal state above 150 K, only the slopes and the constant
terms varied from sample to sample (Table 1).

Figure 1 shows additionally the behavior of S(T) [Fig. 1(a)] and ρ(T)
[Fig. 1(b)] in the background and the mean field region respectively. In
our case the mean field region (MFR) lay between e ∼ 0.03 and e ∼ 0.18,
i.e., in the reduced temperature range where the time-dependent
Ginzburg-Landau like approaches and the Gaussian approximations for OPF
in zero magnetic field are expected to be valid. [13, 14]

The enhancement in the electrical conductivity Dσ(ε) is defined as the
difference between measured conductivity σ(ε) and σ_(B)(ε). The later
one is the extrapolation to zero temperature from the straight line
trend of the normal region (150 ≈ T ≈ 250 K), with σ_(B)(T)≡ 1/σ_(B)(T).

Then DL(ε) can be related with the corresponding excess DS(ε) and Dσ(ε)
by

ΔL(ε) = S_(B)(ε)Δσ(ε) + σ(ε)ΔS(ε),

which can be rewritten as

$$\frac{\Delta L(\varepsilon)}{L_{B}(\varepsilon)} = \frac{\Delta\sigma(\varepsilon)}{\sigma_{B}(\varepsilon)} - \frac{\sigma(\varepsilon)}{\sigma_{B}(\varepsilon)}\frac{\Delta S( \varepsilon)}{S_{B}(\varepsilon)}.$$

From the experimental results we observe that the dependence of DS(ε)
and Dσ(ε) with the reduced temperature is similar for all samples in all
the MFR, Fig. 2. However the

Table 2: Coefficients $B_{\rm{LD}}$ and A_(σ) obtained from the best fit
to the Lawrence-Doniach model of the experimental data for the low
Ag-doped level (0≤x≤0.005) of BSCCO-2234 samples.

Figure 5: ΔS and Δσ as a function of reduced temperature in MFR for high
Ag-doped level (x>0.005) BSCCO-2234 samples.

## References

* [1] M. Tinkham, _Introduction to Superconductivity_ (McGraw-Hill,
Tokyo, 1975). * [2] C. Poole, H. Farach, and R. Creswich,
_Superconductivity_ (Academic, San Diego, 1990). * [3] A. K. Bhatnagar,
R. Pan, D. G. Naugle, G. R. Gilbert, and R. K. Pandey, Phys. Rev. B
**41**, 4002 (1990). * [4] M. A. Howson, M. B. Salamon, T. A. Friedmann,
J. P. Rice, and D. Ginsberg, Phys. Rev. B **41**, 300 (1990). * [5] A.
J. Lowe, S. Regan, and M. A. Howson, Physica B **165-166**, 1369
(1990). * [6] J. Mosqueira, J. A. Veira, J. Maza, O. Cabeza, and Feliz
Vidal, Physica C **253**, 1 (1995). * [7] J. Mosqueira, J. A. Veira, and
F. Vidal, Physica C **229**, 301 (1994). * [8] A. Marino, C. E. Rojas,
H. Sanchez, and J. E. Rodriguez, Inst. Phys. Conf. Ser. **158**, 1053
(1997). * [9] J. Giraldo, J. E. Rodriguez, and A. Marino, Phys. Rev. B
**56**, 2383 (1997). * [10] A. Marino, J. E. Rodriguez, and J. Giraldo,
Physica C **282-287**, 1253 (1997). * [11] H. B. Callen,
_Thermodynamics_ (Wiley, New York, 1960). * [12] J. M. Ziman, _Electrons
and Phonons_ (Clarendon, Oxford, 1963). * [13] O. Cabeza, A. Pomar, A.
Diaz, C. Torron, J. A. Veira, J. Maza, and F. Vidal, Phys. Rev. B
**47**, 5332 (1993). * [14] J. F. Annett, Adv. Phys. **39**, 83
(1990). * [15] J. A. Veira, C. Torron, J. Maza, and F. Vidal, Physica B
**166**, 1367 (1990). * [16] Z. Z. Wang and N. P. Ong, Phys. Rev. B
**38**, 7160 (1988). * [17] A. B. Kaiser and G. Mountjoy, Phys. Rev. B
**43**, 6266 (1991). * [18] J. Mosqueira, J. A. Veira, and F. Vidal,
Physica C **229**, 301 (1994). * [19] O. Cabeza, A. Pomar, A. Diaz, C.
Torron, J. A. Veira, J. Maza, and F. Vidal, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter
**5**, 1365 (1993). * [20] A. A. Varlamov and D. L. Livanov, Zh. Eksp.
Teor. Fiz. **98**, 584 (1990) [ Sov. Phys. JETP **71**, 325 (1990)]. *
[21] A. Marino, H. Sanchez, and L. Rinderer, Physica B **194-196**, 2315
(1993); H. Sanchez and A. Marino, Physica C **235-240**, 1941 (1994). *
[22] K. Maki, Prog. Theor. Phys. **39**, 897 (1968); **40**, 193
(1968). * [23] R. S. Thompson, Phys. Rev. B **1**, 327 (1970). * [24] B.
R. Patton, in _Proceedings of the Thirteenth International Conference on
Low Temperature Physics_, Boulder, 1972, edited by K. D. Timmerhaus, W.
J. O’Sullivan, and E. F. Hammel (Plenum, New York, 1974), p. 642. * [25]
M. Houssa, M. Ausloos, and M. Pekala, Phys. Rev. B **54**, R12713
(1996), and references therein.
