# Charge localization from local destruction of antiferromagnetic
correlation

in Zn-doped YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ)

Kouji Segawa and Yoichi Ando

Central Research Institute of Electric Power Industry, Komae, Tokyo
201-8511, Japan

29 July 1998

###### Abstract

The in-plane normal-state resistivity of Zn-doped YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ)
single crystals is measured down to low temperatures by suppressing
superconductivity with magnetic fields up to 18 T. Substitution of Cu
with Zn in the CuO₂ planes is found to induce carrier localization at
low temperatures in "clean" samples with k_(F)l>5, where the mean free
path l is larger than the electron wavelength and thus localization is
not normally expected. The destruction of the local antiferromagnetic
correlation among Cu spins by Zn is discussed to be the possible origin
of this unusual charge localization. [S0163-1829(99)50206-3]

After more than ten years of intense research, the mechanism of
high-T_(c) superconductivity remains to be elucidated, as well as the
origin of the peculiar normal-state properties of the high-T_(c)
cuprates.[1] It has been repeatedly pointed out that the
antiferromagnetic (AF) spin correlation in the CuO₂ planes may play a
fundamental role in the normal-state properties and the
superconductivity. Recently, there appeared several experiments which
show AF correlation is likely to be fundamentally relevant to the
high-T_(c) superconductivity. For example, incommensurate spatial
modulation of AF fluctuation has been reported in superconducting
La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄ (LSCO) (Ref. 2) and in YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) (YBCO),[3]
and the incommensurability is found to be closely related to T_(c).[2]

The AF correlation in the CuO₂ planes can be disturbed by partially
replacing Cu with other atoms. It is known that partial substitution of
Cu (which has spin ↓) with Zn (which is nonmagnetic) destroys local AF
correlation and thereby quite drastically suppresses
superconductivity.[4] On the other hand, the effect of Zn substitution
on the normal-state charge transport has been believed to be rather
modest; it is reported that Zn substitution simply adds some residual
scattering[5, 6] and leaves the signature of the pseudogap in transport
properties unchanged.[7] Therefore, it would be interesting to look for
some fundamental change in the normal-state charge transport caused by
the destruction of the local AF correlation upon Zn doping. This becomes
particularly intriguing in light of the recently observed logarithmic
divergence of the normal-state resistivity in La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄
(LSCO),[8] in which system presence of a dynamical charge stripe order
is discussed.[9, 10] The charge stripes intervene in the
antiferromagnetically correlated domains, so that the stripes are
one-dimensional (1D) defects to the AF correlation; similarly, Zn is a
pointlike defect to the AF correlation. If the charge stripe in the LSCO
system is the source of the unusual increase in resistivity at low
temperatures as recently proposed,[11] the Zn doping might also induce
similar unusual localization behavior at low temperatures, although the
dimensionality of the defect is different.

In this paper, we report measurement of the low-temperature normal-state
resistivity along the CuO₂ planes, ρ_(ab), of Zn-doped YBCO single
crystals by suppressing superconductivity with dc magnetic fields up to
18 T. We found that the Zn substitution induces unusual carrier
localization at low temperatures in a "clean" system with k_(F)l>5,
where l is the mean free path and k_(F) is the Fermi wave number. This
observation strongly suggests that the local destruction of the AF
correlation by Zn doping can severely and qualitatively affect the
charge transport in cuprates; therefore, the AF correlation in the CuO₂
plane seems to be indispensable to the peculiar metallic normal-state
charge transport.

There are two different Cu sites in YBCO, the chain site Cu(1) and the
plane site Cu(2); when Zn is doped to YBCO, it is reported that Zn
replaces mostly Cu(2) atoms, leaving the carrier density unchanged.[12]
NMR measurements have revealed that nonmagnetic Zn induces local
magnetic moment by causing a spin "hole" in the AF background of the Cu
spins.[4] This local moment gives rise to a Curie term in the magnetic
susceptibility at low temperatures.[12] In recent years, the effects of
Zn doping on the pseudogap phenomena in the underdoped YBCO have been
extensively investigated. Essentially, physical probes that are
sensitive to the excitations with q=(π, π) [(T₁T)⁻¹ in NMR, inelastic
neutron scattering, etc.] find that Zn substitution diminishes the
pseudogap, while the probes that are only sensitive to excitations with
q=(0, 0) (magnetic susceptibility, NMR Knight shift, electrical
resistivity, etc.) find that pseudogap signatures are intact upon Zn
substitution.[7] The two-dimensional (2D) superconductor-insulator (S-I)
transition, which occurs at a critical sheet resistance (per CuO₂ plane)
of h/4e² (=6.5 kΩ), has also been studied in Zn-doped YBCO.[5, 13] In
this transition, Cooper pairs are conjectured to localize in the
presence of disorder;[14] Zn in this case is considered to introduce
disorder potentials in the usual sense, though the scattering from Zn is
maximally large (unitarity limit).[7, 15] Specifically, the S-I
transition in YBCO takes place at around 400 μΩ cm in single crystals[6]
(a larger critical value of 750 μΩ cm is reported for thin films[13]).

The single crystals of YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) are grown by flux method in pure
Y₂O₃ crucibles to avoid inclusion of any impurities other than Zn. The
purity of the crucible and the starting powders are 99.9

The actual concentration of Zn in the YBa₂(Cu_(1 − x)Zn_(x))₃O_(y)
crystals is measured with inductively-coupled plasma spectrometry (ICP)
with an error in z of less than ± 0.10

Figure 1 shows the temperature dependence of ρ_(ab) in 0 and 18 T, for
three samples with different Zn concentrations. Note that the three
samples have the same oxygen content of 6.70. In zero field, all the
samples are metallic (dρ/dT≈ 0) and show superconductivity. We can see
in Fig. 1 that the effect of Zn doping in zero field is to reduce T_(c)
and simply add some constant residual resistivity [thereby shifting up
the ρ_(ab)(T) curve], as is already reported in the literature. Thus,
there is no qualitative difference among the three samples in the
zero-field properties. However, under a high magnetic field of 18 T, a
drastic difference emerges; the z = 2.7

Figures 2(a) and 2(b) show the temperature dependence of ρ_(ab) in
various fields for the y = 6.70, z = 2.7

By analogy with the metal-insulator crossover observed in the
low-temperature normal state of LSCO,[16] one may ex

Figure 1: ρ_(ab(T)) of y = 6.70 crystals with different z (2.7

Figure 2: ρ_(ab)(T) in 0, 4, 8, 12, 16, and 18 T for (a) y = 6.70, z =
2.7

pect that increasing oxygen content makes the z = 2.7% sample metallic.
This is actually the case, as is shown in Fig. 3, where ρ_(ab)(T) of the
z = 2.7% samples with y = 6.70, 6.75, 6.80, and 6.83 are plotted. When
the oxygen content exceeds 6.80, the low-temperature upturn in ρ_(ab)(T)
disappears and a metallic behavior is observed in the y = 6.83 sample in
15 T. It should be noted that the localization behavior is observed here
in samples with quite small resistivity. For example, the minimum of
ρ_(ab)(T) for the y = 6.80, z = 2.7% sample is about 180 μΩ cm. This
value corresponds to k_(F)l = 8.5, if we use the formula l = hc₀/ρ_(k)e²
for 2D electrons (c₀ is the c-axis unit length); therefore, the
localization behavior is taking place in quite a clean system where
localization is not normally observed.[17] In this sense, the
localization behavior observed here is quite unusual.

The inset to Fig. 4 shows a comparison of ρ_(ab)(T) of two samples,
y = 6.70, z = 2.3% (sample M1) and y = 6.80, z = 2.7% (sample I1), to
demonstrate that the onset of the localization behavior is not
correlated with residual resistivity $\rho_{\rm res}$. Sample M1 has
apparently higher $\rho_{\rm res}$ than that of sample I1, indicating
there is no critical $\rho_{\rm res}$ for the localization behavior to
take place. This observation is in contrast to the zero-field S-I
transition observed in YBCO and LSCO,[6] which occurs whenever the
resistivity exceeds the critical value, as mentioned earlier. It should
be noted that all the samples which show the localization behavior in
Figs. 1 and 3 have smaller resistivity than the critical value 400 μΩ cm
(Ref. [6]) and thus are on the superconductor side of the S-I
transition; in fact, all those samples are superconducting and do not
show any upturn in ρ_(ab) in zero field, which is in accord with the
zero-field S-I transition picture. The unusual localization behavior
shows up once the superconductivity is suppressed, where charge is no
longer carried by Cooper pairs. The result shown in the inset to Fig. 4
indicates that the onset of the unusual localization behavior is
determined primarily by the Zn concentration but not by
$\rho_{\rm res}$.

The evolution of ρ_(ab)(T) with changing oxygen content for z = 2.3% is
shown in the main panel of Fig. 4. For this Zn concentration, the charge
transport has much weaker tendency towards localization; even the
y = 6.60 sample shows only a slight upturn in 15 T. When the oxygen
content is further reduced to 6.50, $\rho_{\rm res}$ exceeds the
critical value for the S-I transition and ρ_(ab)(T) shows an insulating
behavior already in zero field. Comparison between the z = 2.7% samples
(Fig. 3) and the z = 2.3% samples (Fig. 4) lead to the conclusion that
the tendency toward carrier localization in the high-field normal state
becomes much stronger when the Zn concentration is increased from 2.3

Now let us discuss the possible origin of the unusual localization
behavior. What we observed in Zn-doped YBCO has strong similarities to
the unusual localization behavior found in underdoped LSCO:[8, 16, 18]
In both systems, the localization behavior takes place in a region of
"clean" charge transport where k_(F)l is larger than 5; the temperature
dependence of the resistivity is consistent with log(1/T) and the size
of the increase in resistivity is larger than what is expected from weak
localization; the localization behavior shows up at low temperatures
only when the superconductivity is suppressed with high magnetic fields.
Therefore, it is naturally expected that the localization behaviors
observed in the two systems have a common origin. When we look for some
common features in the underlying electronic/magnetic structures of the
two systems, we hit on the fact that, as mentioned earlier, both systems
have some kind of "defects" to the AF correlation in the CuO₂ planes;
the LSCO system is likely to have dynamical charge stripes which
separate AF domains, while the Zn impurity in the YBCO system acts like
a pointlike defect in the AF correlation. Note that both the dynamical
charge stripes and the Zn-substitution effect are most strongly seen at
excitations with wave vectors near ${\bf q}\!=\!(\pi,\pi)$.

The above considerations lead to the conclusion that the local
destruction of the AF correlation in the CuO₂ planes might be the origin
of the unusual insulating behavior. This conclusion in turn suggests
that the dynamical AF correla

Figure 3: ρ_(ab)(T) in 0 and 15 T for z = 2.7% samples with y = 6.70,
6.75, 6.80, and 6.83.

tion in the CuO₂ planes governs the peculiar normal-state charge
transport of the cuprates. If so, the charge in cuprates may be carried
by a quasiparticle which is closely related to the AF correlation, and a
local disturbance of the AF correlation, in the presence of a high
magnetic field, may strongly scatter the quasiparticle and bring about
the unusual charge localization. The fact that the localization behavior
is much stronger in the LSCO system [where there is more than a factor
of 2 increase in resistivity at low temperatures in 60 T (Ref. [8]) may
mean that the scattering from 1D defects is much stronger than that from
pointlike defects.

In summary, we measured the in-plane resistivity of Zn-doped YBCO
crystals down to low temperatures by suppressing superconductivity with
high magnetic fields. It is found that the Zn substitution induces
unusual carrier localization at low temperatures in a "clean" system
with k_(F)l as large as 8.5, and the tendency toward carrier
localization becomes much stronger when the Zn concentration is
increased from 2.3

## References

* [1] For a recent review, see M. B. Maple, cond-mat/9802202
(unpublished). * [2] K. Yamada, C. H. Lee, K. Karahashi, J. Wada, S.
Wakimoto, S. Ueki, H. Kimura, Y. Endoh, S. Hosoya, G. Shirane, R. J.
Birgeneau, M. Greven, M. A. Kastner, and Y. J. Kim, Phys. Rev. B **57**,
6165 (1998). * [3] P. Dai, H. A. Mook, and F. Dogan, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**80**, 1738 (1998). * [4] A. V. Mahajan, H. Alloul, G. Collin, and J.
F. Marucco, Phys. Rev. Lett. **72**, 3100 (1994), and references
therein. * [5] T. R. Chien, Z. Z. Wang, and N. P. Ong, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**67**, 2088 (1991). * [6] Y. Fukuzumi, K. Mizuhashi, K. Takenaka, and
S. Uchida, Phys. Rev. Lett. **76**, 684 (1996). * [7] K. Mizuhashi, K.
Takenaka, Y. Fukuzumi, and S. Uchida, Phys. Rev. B **52**, R3884
(1995). * [8] Y. Ando, G. S. Boebinger, A. Passner, T. Kimura, and K.
Kishio, Phys. Rev. Lett. **75**, 4662 (1995). * [9] J. M. Tranquada, P.
Wochner, and D. J. Buttrey, Phys. Rev. Lett. **79**, 2133 (1997). * [10]
T. Suzuki, T. Goto, K. Chiba, T. Shinoda, T. Fukase, H. Kimura, K.
Yamada, M. Ohashi, and Y. Yamaguchi, Phys. Rev. B **57**, R3229
(1998). * [11] J. M. Tranquada, J. D. Axe, N. Ichikawa, Y. Nakamura, S.
Uchida, and B. Nachumi, Phys. Rev. B **54**, 7489 (1996); C. Castellani,
C. Di Castro, and M. Grilli, cond-mat/9804014 (unpublished). * [12] H.
Alloul, P. Mendels, H. Casalta, J. F. Marucco, and J. Arabski, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **67**, 3140 (1991). * [13] D. J. C. Walker, A. P. Mackenzie,
and J. R. Cooper, Phys. Rev. B **51**, 15 653 (1995). * [14] M. P. A.
Fisher, G. Grinstein, and S. M. Girvin, Phys. Rev. Lett. **64**, 587
(1990). * [15] N. Nagaosa and P. A. Lee, Phys. Rev. Lett. **79**, 3755
(1997). * [16] G. S. Boebinger, Y. Ando, A. Passner, T. Kimura, M.
Okuya, J. Shimoyama, K. Kishio, K. Tamasaku, N. Ichikawa, and S. Uchida,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **77**, 5417 (1996). * [17] N. F. Mott,
_Metal-Insulator Transitions_, 2nd ed. (Taylor & Francis, London,
1990). * [18] Y. Ando, G. S. Boebinger, A. Passner, K. Tamasaku, N.
Ichikawa, S. Uchida, M. Okuya, T. Kimura, J. Shimoyama, and K. Kishio,
J. Low Temp. Phys. **105**, 867 (1996).
