# Effect of molybdenum 4d hole substitution in BaFe₂As₂

Athena S. Sefat,¹ Karol Marty,¹ Andrew D. Christianson,¹ Bayrammurd
Saparov,¹ Michael A. McGuire,¹ Mark D. Lumsden,¹ Wei Tian,² and Brian C.
Sales¹

¹Oak Ridge National Laboratory, Oak Ridge, Tennessee 37831, USA ²Ames
National Laboratory and Department of Physics and Astronomy, Iowa State
University, Ames, Iowa 50011, USA

###### Abstract

We investigate the thermodynamic and transport properties of
molybdenum-doped BaFe₂As₂ (122) crystals, the first report of hole
doping using a 4d element. The chemical substitution of Mo in place of
Fe is possible up to ∼ 7

2011 10.1103/PhysRevB.85.024503 pacs: 74.70.Xa, 74.62.Dh, 75.50.Ee,
81.10.Dn + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL REVIEW B **85**, 024503 (2012)

## I Introduction

High-temperature superconductivity continues to attract attention since
its causes in both Fe-based superconductors (FeSCs) and cuprates remain
unsolved. In each, the superconducting state is produced by the
suppression of the magnetic phase transition of an antiferromagnetic
"parent" material. The FeSC parents are itinerant and only weakly
correlated, in contrast to the Mott-insulating cuprate parents. Also
distinct from the cuprates, certain applications of pressure [1] or
chemical substitutions in the Fe-plane [2,3] of FeSC parents instigate
superconductivity.

BaFe₂As₂ (122) is one of the FeSC parents, with a room temperature
ThCr₂Si₂-type tetragonal crystal structure. It has a spin-density-wave
(SDW) order below ≈132 K, where Fe spins are aligned
antiferromagnetically along the a and c axes, and ferromagnetically
along the b axis [4,5]. This magnetic transition temperature (T_(N)) is
coupled with an orthorhombic phase (T_(o)) transition [4,5]. In 122,
superconductivity can be tuned by electron doping the Fe-site using
other 3d (Co, Ni) or 4d (Rh, Pd) transition metals (TM) in
Ba(Fe_(1 − x)T_(x))₂As₂ systems [2,6]. For Co and Rh doping or Ni and Pd
doping, the rate of T_(N) suppression, the maximum superconducting
transition temperature (T_(C)), and the range of the superconducting
dome are found to be identical [7]. Thus, 3d and 4d dopants belonging to
a group in the periodic table that produce overlapping
temperature-composition (_T-x_) phase diagrams. Although this emphasizes
that changes in unit cell dimensions may not be significant, electron
count is important as the 2.5

Here we study the properties of Ba(Fe_(1 − x)Mo_(x))₂As₂, a first report
of hole doping of 122 using a 4d element. Compared to Fe²⁺ with 3_d_⁶,
Mo²⁺ has two less valence electrons (4_d_⁴). The possibility of finding
superconductivity in Ba(Fe_(1 − x)Mo_(x))₂As₂ or discovering a similar
T-x phase diagram to the already reported Cr-doped 122 (Refs. [8] and
[9]) are the aims of study here. We present results from x-ray and
neutron diffraction and thermodynamic and transport properties.

## II Results and Discussions

The single crystals of Ba(Fe_(1 − x)Mo_(x))₂As₂ (Mo-122) were grown out
of a mixture of Ba, FeAs flux, and Mo or MoAs. High purity elements
(>99.9

Attempts of crystal growths for higher Mo content than those presented
in Table 1 were unsuccessful, producing a mixture of phases with
Mo_(5 − y)Fe_(y)As₄ with 0  < y< 1, according to energy-dispersive x-ray
spectroscopy (EDS) results. The limitation for Mo substitution on the Fe
site (less than 7

Chemical compositions of the crystals were found using a Hitachi S3400
Scanning Electron Microscope operating at 20 kV. The beam current was
set to provide approximately 1500 counts/s using a 10-mm sq EDAX
detector set for a processing time of 54 microseconds. Data were reduced
using EDS standardless analysis program. The EDS analysis indicated that
a lot less molybdenum was chemically substituted in 122 crystals than
put in the solution; these results are summarized in Table 1. Three
spots were averaged on the surface of each single crystal. The samples
are denoted by these measured EDS x values in Ba(Fe_(1.%)Mo_(x))₂As₂
throughout this paper. The estimated error on each x value is ∼5

The phase purity of the Ba(Fe_(1.%)Mo_(x))₂As₂ crystals was checked by
collecting data on an X’pert PRO MPD x-ray powder diffractometer in the
5-90^(∘)2θ range. At room temperature, the structures were identified as
the tetragonal ThCr₂Si₂ structure type (14/mmm, Z = 2). The air and
moisture stability of the materials were confirmed by rechecking the
diffraction scan of a sample left overnight. Lattice parameters were
determined from full-pattern LeBaII refinements using X’pert HighScore.
For BaFe₂As₂, a = 3.9619(2) A and c = 13.015(15) A. With Mo doping, the
cell volume increases, for example, for x = 0.013 it increases by 0.05

Magnetization results for Ba(Fe_(1.%)Mo_(x))₂As₂ were collected using a
quantum design magnetic property measurement system with the applied
field along the ab-crystallographic direction. For a typical
temperature-sweep experiment, the sample was cooled to 1.8 K in a zero
field (zfc) and data were collected by warming from 1.8 to ∼380 K, in 1
Tesla. The data are presented in the log plot of χ/χ_(380%) for selected
x, in Fig. 2(a). For BaFe₂As₂, χ_(ab)(300 K) ≈ 0.001 cm³/mol. Similar to
Cr-122 (Ref. 8), Mo doping increases the magnitude of the magnetic
susceptibility at room temperature; the opposite effect is seen for
Co-122 (Ref. 12). For x = 0.066, χ_(ab)(300 K) reaches ≈0.005 cm³/mol.
For x = 0, χ decreases linearly with decreasing temperature and drops
abruptly

Figure 1: (Color online) Room-temperature tetragonal lattice parameters
for the range of possible chemical substitutions in (a)
Ba(Fe_(1.%)Mo_(x))₂As₂ and (b) Ba(Fe_(1.%)Cr_(%))₂As₂. The inset of (b)
spans the data in the same range as (a) to compare the lattice parameter
trends between the two systems.

  Loading amount         Mo (x)   c-lattice parameter (Å)
  --------------------- -------- -------------------------
  FeAs:Mo = 5:0.1        0.006          13.0195(7)
  FeAs:MoAs = 4.9:0.1    0.009          13.0208(7)
  FeAs:Mo = 5:0.25       0.013          13.0298(8)
  FeAs:Mo = 5:0.5        0.026          13.0484(6)
  FeAs:MoAs = 4.5:0.5    0.028          13.0517(8)
  FeAs:Mo = 5:1          0.045          13.0740(8)
  FeAs:Mo = 5:1.5        0.049          13.0948(7)
  FeAs:Mo = 5:1.6        0.054           13.112(2)
  FeAs:Mo = 5:2.2        0.066           13.120(1)

Table 1: For flux-solution grown Ba(Fe_(1.%)Mo_(x))₂As₂ crystals, the
loading ratio of transition metal elements are listed. The resulting
molybdenum concentration (x) and the refined c-lattice parameters are
listed.

below T_(N) = T₀ ≈ 132 K, reproducing the result seen in the
literature.[4, 5] For x ≤ 0.028, the behavior of χ(T) is the same,
although the transition temperatures are reduced with x. For x ≥ 0.045,
χ values increase with decreasing temperature and give further
reductions in the transition temperatures. To infer T_(N), the data were
converted to Fisher’s d(χ T)/dT (Ref. [13]). For x = 0.006, 0.009,
0.013, 0.026, 0.028, 0.045, 0.049, and 0.066, T_(N) values are ≈128,
127, 124, 120, 118, 109, 98, and 89 K, respectively. The rate of
decrease of T_(N) with Mo-122 is similar to that seen for Cr-122 (Ref.
[8]).

Field-dependent magnetization, M(H), at 2 K was found approximately
linear for x ≤ 0.049 and up to 6.8 Tesla [Fig. 2(a)], inset. There are
small nonlinear regions below ∼0.2 Tesla for x = 0 and 0.013, and below
∼0.4 Tesla for x = 0.028 and 0.049. For higher Mo-doped crystals such as
x = 0.066, there is a small hysteresis with no saturation up to 6.8
Tesla and a remnant magnetization estimated at
M_(r) = 0.015$\mu_{\rm B}/$f.u.

Magnetization data were also collected at a smaller field of 0.1 Tesla,
in zfc and field-cooled (fc) conditions, for BaFe₂As₂ and a lightly
Mo-doped x = 0.013 [Fig. 2(b)]. Although the zfc/fc data overlap for
x = 0 (inset), there is a weak splitting between the zfc and fc data for
x = 0.013 that is field dependent. This feature was reproduced on
several crystals of the same batch and it hints of a small ferromagnetic
component with a transition temperature below T_(N). A much larger
ferromagnetic moment is observed in strained SrFe₂As₂ in the literature,
with the hysteretic behavior of M(H) that saturates near M(H).[14] In
contrast to this, M(H) is approximately linear here for Mo-122 with
x ≤ 0.049 and seems x dependent.

Transport measurements for Ba(Fe_(1 − x)Mo_(x))₂As₂ were performed with
a quantum design physical property measurement system (PPMS). Electrical
platinum leads were attached onto the sample using Dupont 4929 silver
paste and resistance measured in the ab plane in the range of 1.8 to 350
K. The ρ values at 300 K ranged from 0.5 to 1.8 mΩ cm, although their
absolute values may have suffered from the geometry factor estimations.

Figure 3(a) presents scaled data in the form of $\rho/\rho_{350\rm K}$.
Electrical resistivity for x = 0 diminishes with decreasing temperature
from 350 K, falling rapidly below 134 K associated with T_(N) and
T_(o).[4, 5] For lightly Mo-doped compositions of 0.006 ≤ x ≤ 0.028,
ρ(T) first reduces gradually, then enhances weakly to a sharp feature
(≈T_(N) = T₀), followed by a steady decrease below, and finally a rapid
drop below T^(*) [see Fig. 3 insets]. The resistive transition
temperatures can be estimated from peaks in dρ/dT.[15] The T_(N) and
T^(*) approximate values, respectively, are 128 and 16.3 K for
x = 0.006, 127 and 16.7 K for x = 0.009, 124 and 12.5 K for x = 0.013,
120 and 7.4 K for x = 0.026, and 118 and 4.9 K for x = 0.028. The
resistivity for x ≥ 0.045 first decreases gently from room temperature,
followed by sharp upturns below ∼100 K. The sharp upturns and continued
increases of the resistivity with decreasing temperature are similar to
what occurs in electron-doped crystals.[6, 7] The upturn reflects the
loss of carriers as a partial SDW gap opens below T_(N). At temperatures
well below T_(N), the increase in the mobility of the remaining carriers
is not enough to overcome the lower carrier concentration and the
resistivity continues to increase. For these higher Mo-doped crystals,
the T_(N) values estimated from dρ/dT are ≈106 K for x = 0.045, 106 K
for x = 0.049, 98 K for x = 0.054, 91 K for x = 0.063, and 89 K for
x = 0.066.

No thermal hysteresis was observed in the ρ_(ab)(T) data, suggesting
that neither of the T_(N) or T^(*) transitions are strongly first
ordered. Figure 3(b) shows the ρ(T) data for x = 0.013 and x = 0.049 in
an applied magnetic field. Although T_(N) does not shift in the field
for x = 0.013 and x = 0.049, T^(*) shifts in x = 0.013 from
$T^{*}_{\rm onset}$ (0T) = 14.7 K to $T^{*}_{\rm onset}$ (10T) = 10.9 K.
The T^(*) transition may be a result of filamentary superconductivity
since no Meissner effect is seen in susceptibility data. Traces of
superconductivity are seen in the parents of SrFe₂As₂ and BaFe₂As₂ in
the literature and are argued to be a result of residual strain.[14, 16]
Although crystal strain is a possibility here, it does not explain the
composition (x) dependence of T^(*); another source for this effect may
be nanoscale phase segregation.

To evaluate 4d Mo-122 in relation to 3d Cr-122, we synthesized and
measured ρ(T) for a wide range of compositions in
Ba(Fe_(1 − x)Cr_(x))₂As₂; see Fig. 3(c). Compared to the original
report[8], here we show data for seven additional compositions and find
two new features. One is that semiconducting behavior is observed for
0.303 ≤ x ≤ 0.472 [Fig. 3(b), inset]. For this composition range,
neutron diffraction gives G-type antiferromagnetic order.[9] Considering
this finding, it may be interesting to see if the magnetic ground state
changes for x ≥ 0.610 that show metallic behavior. Two is that for the
lightly Cr-doped composition of x = 0.022, in addition to the T_(N)
feature at 125 K, there is a second feature at T^(*) ≈ 10.9 K in dρ/dT.
Thus, the low temperature T^(*) anomaly is observed

Figure 2: (Color online) Magnetization data for selected x in
Ba(Fe_(1 − x)Mo_(x))₂As₂, measured along the ab-crystal direction. (a)
The zero-field cooled (zfc) temperature dependence of the scaled molar
susceptibility in 1 Tesla; inset is the field dependence of
magnetization at 2 K. (b) The zfc and field cooled (fc) temperature
dependence of molar susceptibility of x = 0.013, shown as filled circles
and empty circles, respectively; fields of 0.1 and 0.5 Tesla are
measured. Inset shows the overlapping zfc and fc data for BaFe₂As₂
measured in 0.1 Tesla.

in both the hole-doped 3d and 4d because it does not reach down to 1.8
K, it may be a trace of superconductivity or have another electronic
origin.

Although the Hall coefficient ($R_{\rm H}$) is negative for the
temperature range of ∼150 to 300 K for x = 0 (Ref. [17]) and for x <
0.07 in Ba(Fe_(1.x)Cr_(x))₂As₂ (Ref. [8]), its tendency to move toward
more positive values with x is an indication of Cr acting as a hole
dopant in 122 (Ref. [8]). Even though we have not measured $R_{\rm H}$
in Ba(Fe_(1.x)Mo_(x))₂As₂, we expect for them to act similarly.

Specific heat data were collected on Ba(Fe_(1.4)Mo_(x))₂As₂ single
crystals, also using a PPMS, see Fig. 4 For BaFe₂As₂, a sharp transition
is observed at 131.6 K, associated with the T₀ and T_(N).[4] With Mo
doping, the transition temperatures decrease. For x = 0.006, 0.013,
0.026, and 0.045, there are sharp anomalies at T_(N)≈ 127.6, 125.2,
117.6, and 106.2 K, respectively. No features at lower temperatures, at
T^(*), were observed. For x = 0.049 and 0.054, there are peaks below
T_(N)≈ 100 \ and 97 K, respectively [Fig. 4, top inset]. For these
higher Mo-doping levels, the specific heat transition is broader,
perhaps because two to four crystals were used to obtain a reasonable
heat capacity signal. The plot of C/T versus the T² dependence up to 10
K is shown in Fig. 4, bottom inset. The Sommerfeld-coefficient γ for all
the compositions was estimated to range between ∼6 to 13 mJ/(K²mol).
This weak change in γ with x is in contrast to the strong increase in γ
values for Ba(Fe_(1.x)Cr_(x))₂As₂, with γ≈30 mJ/(K² mol), for example,
found for x = 0.070.

Neutron diffraction experiments were performed on a
Ba(Fe_(1.x)Mo_(x))₂As₂ with x = 0.013 specifically to (a) confirm the
coupled antiferromagnetic SDW order (T_(N)) to the orthorhombic phase
(T₀) transition at ∼125 K, (b) look for a possible ferromagnetism
component below ∼45 K [see Fig. 2(b)], and (c) look for the evidence of
changes in magnetic and nuclear structure at ≈12.5 K [see Fig. 3(a),
bottom inset]. The crystal (∼0.01 g) was measured at the High Flux
Isotope Reactor at Oak Ridge National Laboratory, using the HB-1A and
HB-3 triple-axis spectrometers. Due to the small crystal

Figure 4: (Color online) For Ba(Fe_(1.x)Mo_(x))₂As₂, temperature
dependence of specific heat below 200 K. Bottom inset shows C/T versus
T² form below 10 K.

Figure 3: (Color online) (a) For Ba(Fe_(1.x)Mo_(x))₂As₂, temperature
dependence of electrical resistivity measured in the _ab_ plane for the
range of 0 ≤_x_≤ 0.066. Top inset illustrates the features related to
the structural and magnetic SDW (T_(N)) transition. Bottom inset
illustrates the anomaly in resistivity at lower temperatures (T^(*))
that appears for the lightly Mo-doped compositions. (b) For
Ba(Fe_(1.x)Mo_(x))₂As₂ with x = 0.013 and x = 0.045, the effects of 10
Tesla field on antiferromagnetic (T_(N)) and low-temperature (T^(*))
transitions. (c) For Ba(Fe_(1.x)Cr_(x))₂As₂, temperature dependence of
electrical resistivity measured in the _ab_ plane for 0 ≤_x_≤ 0.610.

size, the HB-1A measurements were carried out with open collimations to
gain more intensity, and with the (H K 0) plane aligned in the
scattering plane. HB-3 measurements were performed with
48deg-80deg-80deg-120deg collimation with the (H 0 L) plane aligned in
the scattering plane. The results are presented in Fig. 5.

For x = 0.013, the tetragonal to orthorhombic structural transition was
observed by measuring the temperature dependence of the (2 2 0)T nuclear
peak (T refers to tetragonal basis), which shows extinction effects from
the splitting into (4 0 0)₀ and (0 4 0)₀ reflections (O refers to
orthorhombic basis) resulting in a significant change in the peak
intensity at the transition. The order parameter of the magnetic
transition from the nonmagnetic state to SDW order [with the propagation
vector ($\frac{1}{2}$$\frac{1}{2}$1)_(T)] was determined by the
intensity of the strongest magnetic reflection:
($\frac{1}{2}$$\frac{1}{2}$3)_(T); see Fig. 5(a). In addition to the (2
2 0)T nuclear reflection [Fig. 5(b)], the temperature dependences of the
nuclear (0 0 4)T and (1 0 1)T, and the forbidden (1 0 0)T reflections
were measured. Rocking curves at different temperatures for the (1 1
0)T, (1 1 2)T, and the aforementioned reflections were also measured to
look for any structural effect, a ferromagnetic component or, as in the
case of the similar hole-doped Cr-122, long range G-type
antiferromagnetism with propagation vector (1 0 1)T. Rocking curves of
the ($\frac{1}{2}$$\frac{1}{2}$1)_(T), ($\frac{1}{2}$$\frac{1}{2}$3)T,
and ($\frac{1}{2}$$\frac{1}{2}$7)T magnetic reflections were also
measured at different temperatures to check for a change in the SDW
magnetic structure.

Within the experimental sensitivity, no anomalies were observed in the
temperature dependences (other than the expected transitions below ∼126
K, see Fig. 5) nor in the rocking curves, seemingly indicating that no
long-range structural, ferromagnetic, or G-type antiferromagnetic
transition happens at a lower temperature. Changes in the magnetic
structure [see Fig. 2(b)] may not have been observed due to the small
size of the magnetic moments involved or because the ordering wave
vector lies in a region of reciprocal space not probed by the current
measurements. Moreover, the coarse resolution and limited range of the
reciprocal space probed here may have prevented the observation of
structural changes associated with the anomaly observed at T^(*) [see
Fig. 3(a), bottom inset]. In addition, it is a possibility that T^(*)
may have an extrinsic origin.

We looked for evidence of a structural transition by performing low
temperature powder x-ray diffraction (Cu Kα₁ radiation, Oxford PheniX
cryostat) on powders ground from single crystals of x = 0.013 and
x = 0.045. The angular range near the tetragonal (112) reflection
[orthorhombic (202) and (022)] was carefully examined in these
compositions. At 30 K, lattice parameters were determined from
full-pattern LeBaill refinements using the fullprof program: For
x = 0.045, the orthorhombic lattice constants are a = 5.5955(6) A,
b = 5.5604(8) A, and c = 12.984(1) A; for x = 0.013, they are
a = 5.5733(3) A, b = 5.56100(2) A, and c = 12.9546(5) A. For x = 0.013
and because of the feature at T^(*) ≈ 12.5 K [see Fig. 3(a), bottom
inset], powder x-ray diffraction was also collected at 11 K. We found
that the differences in the lattice constants between 30 and 11 K were
found to be within experimental uncertainty.

## III Conclusion

Here we investigated the effects of 4d molybdenum doping in BaFe₂As₂.
Based on the data above, an x-T phase diagram is proposed for the
Ba(Fe_(1 − x)Mo_(x))₂As₂ system that is shown in Fig. 6. According to
temperature-dependent neutron diffrac

Figure 5: (Color online) (a) Temperature dependence of magnetic
reflection ($\frac{1}{2}$$\frac{1}{2}$3)T (showing the onset of the
magnetic transition at T_(N) = 126 K) and nuclear reflection (1 0 1)T
measured up to 87 K, showing the absence of a transition. (b)
Temperature dependence of nuclear reflections (2 2 0)T, showing
extinction effects due to the structural transition at T₀ = 126 K.

Figure 6: (Color online) For Ba(Fe_(1 − x)Mo_(x))₂As₂, magnetic ordering
temperature (T_(N)) versus Mo doping (x). Results from
Ba(Fe_(1 − x)Cr_(x))₂As₂ (averaged results from Ref. 8 and here) are
also added for comparison.

tion and also the anomalies seen in magnetic susceptibility, electrical
resistivity, and heat capacity, there is the coupled SDW and structural
transition for x = 0.013 at 125(1) K. The nature of magnetic transition
temperature for all of x ≤ 0.066 is probably of the same
antiferromagnetic SDW type. The suppression rate of magnetic transition
temperature with x is the same as in 3d Cr-doped 122, illustrating that
the T-x phase diagram for hole-doped 122 can be simply parameterized by
x, similar to that found for electron-doped 122 systems. Further
investigations are required to explain the anomalies in resistivity at
T^(*) for the lightly doped compositions of 0.006 ≤ x ≤ 0.028 in
Ba(Fe_(1 − x)Mo_(x))₂As₂ and x = 0.022 in Ba(Fe_(1 − x)Cr_(x))₂As₂, and
to understand the possible weak ferromagnetic component below T_(N) in
Mo-122. Although the T^(*) transition is weakly x dependent, its source
may be a nanoscale phase segregation or even an impurity inclusion, or
that its electronic origin may be related to the lack of bulk
superconductivity in hole-doped Ba(Fe_(1 − x)Mn_(x))₂As₂.

###### Acknowledgements.

This work was partly supported by the Department of Energy, Basic Energy
Sciences, Materials Sciences and Engineering Division, and Scientific
User Facilities Division. The Research at the High Flux Isotope Reactor
of the Oak Ridge National Laboratory was sponsored by the Scientific
User Facilities Division, Office of Basic Energy Sciences, US Department
Of Energy.

## References

* [1] A. S. Sefat, Rep. Prog. Phys. **74**, 124502 (2011). * [2] A. S.
Sefat, R. Jin, M. A. McGuire, B. C. Sales, D. J. Singh, and D. Mandrus,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **101**, 117004 (2008). * [3] A. S. Sefat and D. J.
Singh, Mater. Research Bull. **36**, 614 (2011). * [4] M. Rotter, M.
Tegel, D. Johrendt, I. Schellenberg, W. Hermes, and R. Potten, Phys.
Rev. B **78**, 2020503 (2008). * [5] A. S. Sefat, M. A. McGuire, R. Jin,
B. C. Sales, D. Mandrus, F. Ronning, E. D. Bauer, and Y. Mozharivskyj,
Phys. Rev. B **79**, 094508 (2009). * [6] N. Ni and S. L Bud’ko, Mater.
Research Bull. **36**, 620 (2011). * [7] N. Ni, A. Thaler, A. Kracher,
J. Q. Yan, S. L Bud’ko, and P. C. Canfield, Phys. Rev. B **80**, 024511
(2009). * [8] A. S. Sefat, D. J. Singh, L. H. VanBebber, Y.
Mozharivskyj, M. A. McGuire, R. Jin, B. C. Sales, V. Keppens, and D.
Mandrus, Phys. Rev. B **79**, 224524 (2009). * [9] K. Marty, A. D.
Christianson, C. H. Wang, M. Matsuda, H. Cao, L. H. VanBebber, J. L.
Zarestky, D. J. Singh, A. S. Sefat, and M. D. Lumsden, Phys. Rev. B
**83**, 060509 (2011). * [10] M. G. Kim, A. Kreyssig, A. Thaler, D. K.
Pratt, W. Tian, J. L. Zarestky, M. A. Green, S. L Bud’ko, P. C.
Canfield, R. J. McQueeney, and A. I. Goldman, Phys. Rev. B **82**,
220503 (2010). * [11] A. S. Sefat, D. J. Singh, R. Jin, M. A. McGuire,
B. C. Sales, F. Ronning, and D. Mandrus, Physica C **469**, 350
(2009). * [12] M. E. Fisher, Philos. Mag. **7**, 1731 (1962). * [13] N.
Ni, M. E. Tillman, J. Q. Yan, A. Kracher, S. T. Hannahs, S. L Bud’ko,
and P. C. Canfield, Phys. Rev. B **78**, 214515 (2008). * [14] S. R.
Saha, N. P. Butch, K. Kirshenbaum, and J. Paglione, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**103**, 037005 (2009). * [15] M.E. Fisher and J. S. Langer, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **20** 665 (1968). * [16] M. A. Tanatar, N. Ni, G. D. Samolyuk, S.
L Bud’ko, P. C. Canfield, and R. Prozorov, Phys. Rev. B **79**, 134528
(2009). * [17] J. H. Chu, J. G. Analytis, C. Kucharchzyk, and I. R.
Fisher, Phys. Rev. B **79**, 014506 (2009).
