# Site-selective oxygen isotope effect on the magnetic-field penetration
depth

in underdoped Y0.6Pr0.4Ba2Cu3O7-_d_

R. Khasanov

Physik-Institut der Universitat Zurich, Winterthurerstrasse 190,
CH-8057, Switzerland Laboratory for Muon Spin Spectroscopy, Paul
Scherrer Institut, CH-5232 Villigen PSI, Switzerland Laboratory for
Neutron Scattering, ETH Zurich and Paul Scherrer Institut, CH-5232
Villigen PSI, Switzerland

A. Shengelaya

Physik-Institut der Universitat Zurich, Winterthurerstrasse 190,
CH-8057, Switzerland

E. Morenzoni

Laboratory for Muon Spin Spectroscopy, Paul Scherrer Institut, CH-5232
Villigen PSI, Switzerland

M. Angst

Physik-Institut der Universitat Zurich, Winterthurerstrasse 190,
CH-8057, Switzerland

K. Conder

Laboratory for Muon Spin Spectroscopy, Paul Scherrer Institut, CH-5232
Villigen PSI, Switzerland

I. M. Savic

Faculty of Physics, University of Belgrade, 11001 Belgrade, Serbia and
Montenegro

D. Lampakis

Department of Physics, National Technical University, Athens 157 80,
Greece

E. Liarokapis

Department of Physics, National Technical University, Athens 157 80,
Greece

A. Tatsi

Department of Physics, National Technical University, Athens 157 80,
Greece

H. Keller

Physik-Institut der Universitat Zurich, Winterthurerstrasse 190,
CH-8057, Switzerland Laboratory for Muon Spin Spectroscopy, Paul
Scherrer Institut, CH-5232 Villigen PSI, Switzerland

May 19, 2022

###### Abstract

We report site-selective oxygen isotope (¹⁶O/¹⁸O) effect (OIE)
measurements on the in-plane penetration depth λ_(ab) in underdoped
Y0.6Pr0.4Ba2Cu3O7-_d_, using the muon-spin rotation technique. A
pronounced OIE on the transition temperature T_(c) as well as on
λ_(ab)⁻²(0) was observed, which mainly arises from the oxygen sites
within the superconducting CuO2 planes (100

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.68.220506 PACS number(s): 74.72.−h, 76.75.+i,
82.20.Tr, 74.25.Kc + Footnote †: preprint: APS/123-QED

More than 15 years after the discovery of the cuprate high-T_(c)
superconductors (HTSC), their pairing mechanism is still not understood.
For a long time, a role of phonons in this mechanism was dismissed,
despite evidence of their relevance, for example, by isotope experiments
(see, e.g., Refs. [1−6]). One of the reasons for this was the prevailing
belief that phonons simply could not account for such high transition
temperatures T_(c) . The recent discovery of MgB₂, [7] where phonons are
clearly the pairing glue leading to an unexpectedly high T_(c)  ≈ 40 K,
clearly falsified this belief. Many other widely cited reasons as to why
phonons ought to play no role in HTSC also do not stand to scrutiny. [8,
9] Recent work by inelastic neutron scattering (INS) [10, 11] and angle
resolved photoemission spectroscopy (ARPES) [12, 13] gave good
indications of a strong electron-phonon coupling in various HTSCs,
invigorating the debate about the relevance of phonons. [14, 15]

For conventional superconductors (including doped fullerenes [16] and
MgB₂[7]), key experimental evidence for a phonon mediated pairing was
provided by measurements of the isotope effect (IE) on T_(c) . In
complex materials, such as the HTSC, T_(c) may depend on many parameters
in a non-trivial way. Important complimentary information can be
obtained from the IE on the magnetic penetration depth λ. Previous
studies [3, 4, 5, 6] showed substantial oxygen isotope (¹⁶O/¹⁸O) effect
(OIE) on the in-plane penetration depth λ_(ab) , which indicates an
unusual (e.g., nonadiabatic) coupling of the electrons to phonon modes
involving the movement of the isotope substituted atoms. It is important
to identify the relevant phonon modes responsible for this effect. Keen
insight in this respect can be obtained from studying the site-selective
oxygen isotope effect (SOIE), as we will detail below. While two
reliable reports on the SOIE on T_(c) exist, [2, 18] the SOIE on λ_(ab)
was previously deduced only in a very indirect way from magnetization
measurements in the vicinity of T_(c). [18]

In this communication, we report on the SOIE on T_(c) and on λ_(ab) in
underdoped Y0.6Pr0.4Ba2Cu3O7-_d_, [19] measured directly and accurately
by using the transverse field muon-spin rotation (TF-μSR) technique.
[20] The result clearly indicates a strong coupling of the electronic
subsystem to phonon modes involving movements of the oxygen atoms in the
CuO2 plane, while suggesting that modes involving apical and chain
oxygen are less strongly coupled to the electrons. This agrees with the
conclusions observed from the combination of INS (Refs. [10] and [11])
and ARPES (Refs. [12] and [13]) results, which were obtained in a
completely different way and in other HTSC.

Polycrystalline samples of Y0.6Pr0.4Ba2Cu3O7-_d_ were prepared by
standard solid-state reaction. [21] In order to prepare oxygen
site-selective samples a two-step exchange process was applied. [2, 22]
In the first step [500 degC, 35 h at 1.2 bars in ¹⁶O₂ (¹⁸O₂) gas] two
pairs of completely oxygen substituted samples (¹⁶O${}_{\rm{pac}}$ and
¹⁸O${}_{\rm{pac}}$) were prepared [here indexes p, a, and c mean planar
(within CuO2 planes), apical and chain oxygen, respectively]. In the
second step (330 degC, 150 h, 1.2 bar) two site-selective oxygen samples
(¹⁶O${}_{\rm{lac}}$ and ¹⁸O${}_{\rm{lac}}$/¹⁶O${}_{\rm{ac}}$) were
prepared via annealing one ¹⁶O${}_{\rm{pac}}$ sample in a
¹⁸O${}_{\rm{2}}$ atmosphere and one ¹⁸O${}_{\rm{pac}}$ sample in
¹⁶O${}_{\rm{2}}$ gas. The other two samples (one ¹⁶O${}_{\rm{pac}}$ and
one ¹⁸O${}_{\rm{pac}}$) were simultaneously annealed in the same
atmosphere as before. For the totally exchanged sample
(¹⁸O${}_{\rm{pac}}$) the ¹⁸O content, estimated from the change of the
sample weight after annealing, was found to be 90(2)

The site selectivity of the oxygen exchange was then checked by Raman
spectroscopy. The 488-nm and 514.5-nm lines of an Ar laser were used for
excitation. Figure 1 shows Raman spectra of all samples with zz and xx
polarizations. In the zz polarization for the ¹⁶O${}_{\rm{pace}}$ sample
we observe two lines, one corresponding to the in-phase motion along the
c axis of the planar oxygen atoms (436 cm⁻¹) and one corresponding to
the bond-stretching mode of apical oxygen, which in this compound is
located at 512 cm⁻¹.[22] In the xx polarization a line at 325 cm⁻¹ is
seen, corresponding to the out-of-phase vibrations of the planar oxygen
atoms.[22] In the ¹⁸O${}_{\rm{pace}}$ sample, the Raman lines are all
shifted to lower frequencies with amounts agreeing well with the ones
obtained in Ref. 2, indicating a nearly complete exchange of ¹⁶O with
¹⁸O. In the site-selective sample ¹⁶O${}_{\rm{p}}$¹⁸O${}_{\rm{ac}}$,
only the position of the apical oxygen line is shifted to the lower
frequency, whereas the lines corresponding to the plane oxygen stay the
same [apart from a small shift of one Raman line (433 cm⁻¹ instead of
436 cm⁻¹), probably due to a small unintentional partial substitution by
¹⁸O]. Note that the apical line (492 cm⁻¹) is also slightly shifted from
the expected 482 cm⁻¹, indicating that oxygen exchange for the apical
and chain oxygen is slightly incomplete. In the
¹⁸O${}_{\rm{p}}$¹⁶O${}_{\rm{ac}}$ sample only two planar lines are
shifted, while the apical line stays the same. The chain oxygen atom in
yttrium barium copper oxide (YBCO) with oxygen content close to seven is
not Raman active. However, based on the fact that diffusion in YBCO
occurs via the chain oxygen (see, e.g., Ref. 21) one can conclude that
the chain oxygen is exchanged completely. Therefore, the Raman results
confirm the almost complete site-selective oxygen substitution in all
samples.

To determine the site-selective oxygen isotope shift on T_(c), low field
[1 mT, field cooled (FC)] superconducting quantum interference device
(SQUID) magnetization M measurements were performed. Figure 2 shows the
M(T) dependencies in the vicinity of T_(c) for all four samples. It can
be seen that the ¹⁶O${}_{\rm{pace}}$ sample has a higher T_(c) than the
¹⁸O${}_{\rm{pace}}$ one with nearly the same transition width. The
isotope shift ΔT_(c) =  − 1.66(17) K for completely substituted samples
(¹⁶O${}_{\rm{pace}}$ and ¹⁸O${}_{\rm{pace}}$) is in agreement with
previous results [5, 23] (T_(c) was extracted from the intercept of the
linear extrapolations as shown in Fig. 2). The data points of the
site-selective ¹⁶O${}_{\rm{pace}}$¹⁸O${}_{\rm{ac}}$ sample coincide
within error with those of the ¹⁶O${}_{\rm{pace}}$ sample, whereas the
¹⁸O${}_{\rm{p}}$¹⁶O${}_{\rm{ac}}$ data points coincide with the
¹⁸O${}_{\rm{pace}}$ ones, indicating that the OIE on T_(c) is related to
the oxygen within the CuO₂ planes. The results of the SOIE on T_(c) are
summarized in Table 1. The OIE exponent on T_(c) was determined as
α₀ =  − dln T_(c)/dln M₀ (M₀ is the mass of the oxygen isotope).

In order to determine the SOIE on λ_(ab) we performed TF-μSR
measurements at the Paul Scherrer Institute (PSI), Switzerland, using
the πM3 beam line. The samples were cooled from far above T_(c) in a
magnetic field of 200 mT. In a powder sample the magnetic penetration
depth λ can be extracted from the muon-spin depolarization rate
σ(T) ≈ 1/λ²(T), which probes the second moment ⟨ΔB²⟩^(1/2) of the
probability distribution of the local magnetic-field function p(B) in
the mixed state.[20] For highly anisotropic layered superconductors
(like the cuprate superconductors) λ is mainly determined by the
in-plane penetration depth λ_(ab)  : σ(T) ≈ 1/λ_(ab)²(T).[20] The
depolarization rate σ was extracted from the μSR time spectra using a
Gaussian relaxation function R(t) = exp[−σ²t²/2]. As discussed in Ref.
5, the measured total depolarization rate σ is determined by three
terms: a superconducting (σ_(sc)), an antiferromagnetic (σ_(afm)), and a
small nuclear magnetic dipole (σ_(nm)) contribution. The
antiferromagnetic contribution σ_(afm) is present _only_ at low
temperatures. Therefore data points below 10 K were excluded in the
analysis. The dipole contribution σ_(nm) is practically tempera

Figure 2: Section near T_(c) of the normalized (to the value at 5 K)
magnetization curves (1 mT, FC) of the site-selective
Y_(0.6)Pr_(0.8)Ba₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) samples.

Figure 1: Room-temperature Raman spectra of the
Y_(0.6)Pr_(0.8)Ba₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) samples. For xx polarization the line
corresponds to the out-of-phase motion of the planar oxygen atoms (¹⁸O,
325 cm⁻¹, ¹⁸O, 294 cm⁻¹). For zz polarization the two lines correspond
to the in-phase motion of the CuO₂ plane oxygen (¹⁶O, 436 cm⁻¹, ¹⁸O, 415
cm⁻¹) to the bond-stretching mode of the apical oxygen (¹⁶O, 512 cm⁻¹;
¹⁸O, 482 cm⁻¹).

ture independent below 100 K, and since ¹⁶O and ¹⁸O oxygen have no
nuclear magnetic moments it is also not sensitive to the oxygen
substitution. Thus, σ_(sc) was determined by subtracting σ_(syn)
measured above T_(c) from σ according to
$\sigma_{sc}\!=\!\sqrt{\sigma^{2}\!-\sigma_{syn}^{2}}$. Figure 3 shows
the temperature dependence of σ_(sc) for the
Y_(0.6)Pr_(0.4)Ba₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) site-selective samples. It is evident
that a remarkable oxygen isotope shift of T_(c) as well as of σ_(sc) is
present. More importantly, the data points of the site-selective
¹⁶O₉¹⁸O${}_{\rm ex}$(¹⁸O${}_{\rm p}$¹⁶O${}_{\rm xc}$) samples coincide
with those of the ¹⁶O${}_{\rm pac}$(¹⁸O${}_{\rm pac}$) samples. In order
to put into evidence these results, the curve fitting the temperature
dependence of σ_(sc)(T) for ¹⁶O${}_{\rm pac}$ (shown below) was
subtracted from the experimental data [Fig. 3(b)]. It can be seen that
the experimental points for the two pairs of samples mentioned above
coincide within the error bars (nearly within the error bars in the case
of ¹⁶O${}_{\rm pac}$ and ¹⁶O${}_{\rm p}$¹⁸O${}_{\rm xc}$). The data in
Fig. 3 were fitted to the power law
σ_(sc)(T)/σ_(sc)(0) = 1 − (T/T_(c))^(n) with σ_(sc)(0) as a free
parameter.[20] The value of T_(c) was taken from the magnetization
measurements (see Table I), n was fitted as a common parameter for all
four data sets and was found to be n = 1.87(4), which is typical for
underdoped YBCO.[20] Two points should be mention. (i) The exponent n is
isotope independent[4, 5] therefore fits with the same n for all data
sets allow us to increase the accuracy in the determination of
σ_(sc)(0). (ii) Fits of experimental data with the power law satisfy the
χ² criterion, indicating that this function describes our data well. The
values of σ_(sc)(0) obtained from the fits are listed in Table I and are
in agreement with previous results.[4, 5] From the values of σ_(sc)(0)
the relative isotope shift of the in-plane penetration depth
Δλ_(ab)⁻²(0)/λ_(ab)⁻²(0)
=[σ_(sc)(X)(0) − σ_(sc)(¹⁶O${}_{\rm pac})(0)]/\sigma_{sc}(^{16}$O${}_{\rm pac})(0)$
and the OIE exponent
$\beta_{\rm O}\!=\!-\!d\ln\lambda_{ab}^{-2}(0)/d\ln M_{\rm O}$ were
determined (see Table I). Here X denotes
¹⁶O${}_{\rm p}$¹⁸O${}_{\rm xc}$, ¹⁸O${}_{\rm p}$¹⁶O${}_{\rm xc}$, and
¹⁸O${}_{\rm pac}$. Our results (summarized in Table I) are in good
agreement with previous estimates of SOIE from magnetization
experiments[18] and our previous μSR non-site-selective OIE results.[5]

In Fig. 4, we plot the OIE exponent
$\beta_{\rm O}\!$[− Δλ_(ab)⁻²(0)/λ_(ab)⁻²(0)] vs the OIE exponent
$\alpha_{\rm O}$

Figure 4: Plot of the OIE exponent
$\beta_{\rm O}\!$(− Δλ_(ab)⁻²(0)/λ_(ab)⁻²(0)) vs the OIE exponent
$\alpha_{\rm O}$(− ΔT_(c)/T_(c)) for site-selective
Y_(0.6)Pr_(0.4)Ba₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) samples. The error bars of the “trivial”
¹⁶O${}_{\rm pac}$ point (zero isotope shift by definition) indicate the
intrinsic uncertainty of the experimental procedures on the estimation
of T_(c) and λ_(ab).

(−ΔT_(c)/T_(c)), in analogy with Ref. [5]. Substantial OIE on T_(c) and
λ_(ab)⁻²(0) are observed for the completely ¹⁸O substituted
(¹⁸O${}_{\rm pho}$) and the site selective
¹⁸O${}_{\rm p}$¹⁶O${}_{\rm ac}$ samples, which are the same within error
bars. The other site-selective sample (¹⁶O${}_{\rm p}$¹⁸O${}_{\rm ac}$)
shows zero (within error bar) OIE on T_(c) and a very small, but
possibly nonzero, OIE on λ_(ab)⁻²(0). This effect very likely arises
from the small fraction of ¹⁸O that substituted ¹⁶O oxygen within the
CuO₂ planes, as seen in the Raman data (see Fig. 1). However, within the
error bars, the OIE on λ_(ab)⁻²(0) can still be considered the same for
the ¹⁶O${}_{\rm pac}$ and ¹⁶O${}_{\rm p}$¹⁶O${}_{\rm ac}$ samples. Based
on the fact that nearly the whole OIE on T_(c) and λ_(ab)(0) arises from
the oxygen within CuO₂ planes, and using the plane oxygen content (≈87.5

In summary, we performed μSR measurements of the site-selective oxygen
isotope effect on the in-plane magnetic-field penetration depth in
underdoped polycrystalline Y_(0.6)Pr_(0.4)Ba₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) samples. It
was found that the whole or nearly the whole effect on the transition
temperature T_(c) and on the in-plane magnetic penetration depth
λ_(ab)⁻² (about 100

This work was partly performed at the Swiss Muon Source (SμS), Paul
Scherrer Institute (PSI, Switzerland). The authors are grateful to A.
Amato and D. Herlach for help during the μSR measurements, D. Di Castro
for helpful discussions, and L. Meier for the measurements of the grain
size distribution. This work was supported by the Swiss National Science
Foundation and by the NCCR program MaNEP sponsored by the Swiss National
Science Foundation.

## References

* [1] For a review, see J.P. Franck, in _Physical Properties High
Temperature Superconductors IV_, edited by D.M. Ginsberg (World
Scientific, Singapore, 1994), pp. 189-293. * [2] D. Zech _et al._,
Nature (London) **371**, 681 (1994). * [3] G.-M. Zhao _et al._, Nature
(London) **385**, 236 (1997). * [4] J. Hofer _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**84**, 4192 (2000). * [5] R. Khasanov _et al._, J. Phys.: Condens.
Matter **15**, L17 (2003). * [6] R. Khasanov _et al._, cond-mat/0305477
(unpublished). * [7] Nagamatsu, N. Nakagawa, T. Muranaka, Y. Zenitani,
and J. Akimitsu, Nature (London) **410**, 63 (2001). * [8] P.B. Allen,
Nature (London) **412**, 494 (2001). * [9] M.L. Kulic, Phys. Rep.
**338**, 1 (2000). * [10] R.J. McQueeney _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**82**, 628 (1999); **87**, 077001 (2001); M. d’Astuto _et al._,
_ibid._**88**, 167002 (2002). * [11] J.-H. Chung _et al._, Phys. Rev. B
**67**, 014517 (2003). * [12] P.V. Bogdanov _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**85**, 2581 (2000); P.V. Bogdanov _et al._, _ibid._**89**, 167002
(2002). * [13] A. Lanzara _et al._, Nature (London) **412**, 510
(2001). * [14] M. Eschrig and M.R. Norman, Phys. Rev. B **67**, 144503
(2003); E. Schachinger, J.J. Tu, and J.P. Carbotte, _ibid._**67**,
214508 (2003). * [15] A. Bussmann-Holder _et al._, J. Phys.: Condens.
Matter **13**, L169 (2001); D. Mihailovic and V.V. Kabanov, Phys. Rev. B
**63**, 054505 (2001); Z.-X. Shen _et al._, Philos. Mag. B **82**, 1349
(2002); M. Tachiki, M. Machida, and T. Egami, Phys. Rev. B **67**,
174506 (2003). * [16] A.P. Ramirez _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **68**,
1058 (1992). * [17] S.L. Budko _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **86**, 1877
(2001); D.G. Hinks, H. Claus, and J.D. Jorgensen, Nature (London)
**411**, 457 (2001). * [18] G.-M. Zhao, J.W. Ager, and D.E. Morris,
Phys. Rev. B **54**, 14 982 (1996). * [19] The
Y_(1 − x)Pr_(x)Ba₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) was chosen for the following reasons. (i)
This is the only compound where the site-selective oxygen exchange was
successfully performed. (ii) The OIE on T_(c) and λ_(ab)(0) increases
with decreasing doping (increasing x). (iii) The oxygen substitution
affects only the phonon spectra, but not the crystal and most probably
not the electronic structures. * [20] P. Zimmermann _et al._, Phys. Rev.
B **52**, 541 (1995). * [21] K. Conder, Mater. Sci. Eng. **32**, 41
(2001). * [22] A. Gantis _et al._, (unpublished). * [23] J.P. Franck _et
al._, Phys. Rev. B **44**, 5318 (1991). * [24] C.L. Seaman _et al._,
Phys. Rev. B **42**, 6801 (1990). * [25] K. Conder _et al._, in _Phase
Separation in Cuprate Superconductors_, edited by E. Sigmund and K. A.
Muller (Springer, Berlin, 1994) p. 210. * [26] F. Raffa _et al._, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **81**, 5912 (1998).
