# Superconductivity and spin fluctuations in the actinoid-platinum metal
borides (Th,U)Pt3B

E. Bauer,¹ E. Royanian,¹ H. Michor,¹ O. Sologub,¹ E.-W. Scheidt,² A. P.
Goncalves,³ J. Bursik,⁴ W. Wolf,^(5, 6) D. Reith,^(5, 6) C.
Blaas-Schenner,⁶ R. Moser,⁶ R. Podloucky,⁶ and P. Rogl⁶

###### Abstract

Investigating the phase relations of the system [Th,U]-Pt-B at 900 degC
the formation of two compounds has been observed: cubic ThPt3B with
$Pm\bar{3}m$ structure as a representative of the perovskites, and
tetragonal UPt3B with P4mm structure being isotypic to the
noncentrosymmetric structure of CePt3B. The crystal structures of the
two compounds are defined by combined x-ray diffraction and transmission
electron microscopy. Characterization of physical properties for ThPt3B
reveals a superconducting transition at 0.75 K and an upper critical
field at T = 0 exceeding 0.4 T. For nonsuperconducting UPt3B a metallic
resistivity behavior was found in the entire temperature range; at very
low temperatures spin fluctuations become evident and the resistivity
ρ(T) follows non-Fermi liquid characteristics, ρ = ρ₀ + AT^(*) with
n = 1.6. Density functional theory (DFT) calculations were performed for
both compounds for both types of structures. They predict that the
experimentally claimed cubic structure of ThPt3B is thermodynamically
not stable in comparison to a tetragonal phase, with a very large
enthalpy difference of 25 kJ/mol, which cannot be explained by the
formation energy of B vacancies. However, the presence of random boron
vacancies possibly stabilizes the cubic structure via a local strain
compensation mechanism during the growth of the crystal. For UPt3B the
DFT results agree well with the experimental findings.

2015 1098-0121/2015/92(2)/024511(105)

## 1 Introduction

The discovery of CePt3Si (CePt3B type) as the first heavy fermion
superconductor without a center of inversion [1] has triggered
widespread research activities to search for superconducting states in
related ternary or quaternary alloy systems [2]. Therefore, our studies
were extended to actinoid metal-platinum metal-boride systems searching
for materials with similar property characteristics and/or a possibly
high Seebeck effect due to strong electron correlations. The aims of the
present research are (i) a detailed investigation of phase relations in
the systems An-Pt-B near the composition AnPt3B, (An = Th,U), (ii) the
evaluation of the crystal structures of ternary compounds, and (iii) the
characterization of physical properties of materials. This paper
summarizes various results on the compounds ThPt3B with cubic and UPt3B
with tetragonal crystal structure.

## 2 Experiment

Alloys AnPt3B, An = Th,U (1.5 gram each) were prepared by argon arc
melting on a water-cooled copper hearth in Ti-gettered argon from
elemental ingots with a minimal purity of 99.9 mass

X-ray powder diffraction data from as-cast and annealed alloys were
collected on a Guinier-Huber image plate system with Cu K_(a1)(8 < 2 th
< 100deg). Refinement of the crystal structures was performed with the
program fullprof[3]. A Philips CM12 STEM transmission electron
microscope (TEM) was used with an EDX analyzer and Phoenix software to
corroborate unit cell, symmetry, and formation of superstructures. TEM
investigations were performed on particles 0.1-2 μm, which were obtained
by mechanically crushing alloy pieces under ethanol and transferring the
particles on a thin holey carbon film supported by a copper grid. It
turned out that isolated particles on a carbon film with little means of
heat transfer often melted under the electron beam, which made work very
difficult. Hence alternatively samples for TEM were prepared in the form
of thin lamellae (lateral dimensions about 10 x 7 μm) perpendicular to
the polished facet of a material fragment using a focused ion beam (FIB)
technique in a TESCAN LYRA 3 XMU FEG/SEM x FIB scanning electron
microscope. Measurements of the various physical properties were carried
out with a series of standard techniques [4]. Low temperature specific
heat experiments were performed in a ³He/⁴He-dilution refrigerator down
to a base temperature of 60 mK using a standard relaxation method [5].

## 3 Computational details

Density functional theory (DFT) calculations were performed by applying
the Vienna _Ab-initio_ Simulation Package (vasp) [6, 7] utilizing the
pseudopotential construction according to the projector-augmented-wave
method [8]. For the exchange-correlation functional the local-density
approximation (LDA) of Ceperley and Alder [9] as parametrized by Perdew
and Zunger [10] was chosen. The Brillouin-zone integration on an
11 × 11 × 11k⃗-point mesh [11] was made by a Gaussian smearing technique
for a smearing parameter of σ = 0.2 eV. Structural parameters were fully
optimized and the electronic structure was calculated
scalar-relativistically (i.e., omitting spin-orbit coupling) as well as
fully relativistically including spin-orbit coupling [12].

For vibrational properties within the harmonic approximation we used the
direct force-constant method as implemented in the program package
fphon[13]. For deriving the force constants atomic displacements of 0.02
A were chosen. Before applying such displacements the structural
parameters (i.e., the volume and shape of the unit cell as well as the
positions of the atoms within the unit cell) were relaxed until the
residual forces were less than 10⁻⁴ eV/A. Anharmonic vibrational
properties were calculated by means of the self-consistent _ab initio_
lattice dynamics (SCAILD) method [14, 15].

## IV Results and discussion

### Phase relations

Phase equilibria in the An-Pt-B systems were explored in the region for
less than 34 at.

### Crystal structure of ThPt₃B

Single crystals were isolated from the mechanically crushed alloy with
nominal composition ThPt₃B and showed a cubic primitive unit cell
corresponding to a = 0.4383(2) nm. X-ray intensities confirmed isotypism
with the filled AuCu₃ type structure, space group $Pm\bar{3}m$, i.e., a
perovskite boride with Th atoms at the corners and Pt atoms at the
face-centered positions of the cubic unit cell. For the boron atoms the
sites in the center of the unit cell are the most likely ones, similar
to isotypic CePt₃B (see Fig. 1). The weak x-ray scattering power of
boron atoms, however, may mask the true boron content and a random
distribution of boron atoms with a certain amount of vacancies in the
site 1a is likely, as also indicated by the large value of the residual
resistivity (see Fig. 4). Crystal symmetry and unit cell dimensions are
fully confirmed by TEM analyses (see section below).

DFT calculations predict that the tetragonal structure is by 25 kJ/mol
more stable than the cubic one (compare Tables 1 and 2). It is well
known that B has a strong tendency to distort high symmetry structures
and form a huge variety of more or less distorted structural patterns.
The strong preference for the tetragonal structure was also predicted by
DFT for first row elements from H to N at the position of B. Further DFT
tests were performed by shifting B a few 10⁻² A away from its high
symmetry position and allowing vasp for automatic structural
optimization. All these calculations led to the tetragonal structure
without any energy barrier. Numerous DFT calculations including
vacancies up to 25

Removing B totally results in a volume reduction of more than 10 A³/atom
for the unit cell of ThPt₃▫ according to Table 2. The reduction of the
lattice parameter would be 0.197 A for 100

More elaborate calculations were done involving the cluster expansion
plus Monte Carlo technique [17] studying the temperature dependent
energetics for B vacancies at higher concentrations. However, the large
enthalpy difference between the tetragonal and the idealized cubic
structure could by far not be overcome by vacancy formation.

Therefore, after all these experimental and computational efforts the
conclusion can only be that the experimental sample of ThPt₃B has cubic
structure with a small amount (up to 10

            Method   a (nm)    c (nm)    V₀ (Å³/atom)
  -------- -------- --------- --------- --------------
  UPt₃B      Expt    0.38906   0.52241      15.82
  UPt₃B      DFT     0.3821    0.5225       15.25
  ThPt₃B     DFT     0.3936    0.5194       16.09

Table 1: Structural parameters for compounds with the tetragonal
structure in space group $Pm\bar{3}m$: lattice parameters a, c as well
as volume per atom V₀. The z parameters as calculated by DFT (with
z_(Pt2) = 0 in both cases) are as follows: for ThPt₃B z_(Pt3) = 0.161,
z_(Pt1) = 0.618, and z_(B) = 0.414; for UPt₃B z_(U) = 0.169,
z_(Pt1) = 0.618, and z_(B) = 0.406.

Figure 1: (Color online) View of the crystal structures of ThPt₃B and
UPt₃B.

### Crystal structure of UPt3B

Single crystals isolated from the mechanically crushed alloy indicated a
tetragonal primitive unit cell with a = 0.38906(3) and c = 0.52241(5)
nm. The x-ray intensity spectrum indicated isotypism with the CePt3B
type structure. This structure type lacks a center of symmetry and is
also adopted by the heavy fermion superconductor CePt3Si [1]. From the
refinement data the correspondence of U and Ce atoms, and Si and B atoms
is straightforward: space group P4mm, U in
1b$\{\frac{1}{2},\frac{1}{2},\frac{1}{2},\frac{2}{2}=0.1621(6)\}$, Pt1
in 2c$\{\frac{1}{2},\frac{0}{2},\frac{2}{0},\frac{2}{0}=0.6134(8)\}$,
Pt2 in 1a$\{\frac{1}{0},\frac{0}{0},0$ (fixed), and B in
1a$\{0,0,\frac{2}{0}=0.3521(10)\}$; see Fig. 1. The low residual value,
R_(F) = 0.036 for 55 reflections in a Rietveld refinement, confirms the
structure type.

With the exception of the position of B the DFT results in Table 1 are
in good agreement with the experimental data. The DFT derived volume per
atom is about 3.5

### Transmission electron microscopy of ThPt3B and of UPt3B

Grains of ThPt3B and UPt3B were identified via the internal EDX system
of the TEM apparatus. A series of selected area diffraction (SAD)
patterns was then taken at various sample tilts. Figure 2 summarizes the
most representative diffraction patterns obtained on ThPt3B with low
index zone axes [100], [110], [111], and [211] and their simulations
using software jems[20]. Similarly, Fig. 3 contains low index
diffraction patterns with zone axes [100], [101], [110], and [001] plus
their simulations for UPt3B. All diffraction patterns were fully indexed
using the lattice parameters found by x-ray diffraction techniques. No
superstructure spots were detected confirming the crystal system and the
unit cell dimensions given above. The observed intensities of
diffraction spots correlate well with the simulations based on the
atomic positions presented.

The crystal structures of ThPt3B and UPt3B are shown in Fig. 1 in
three-dimensional view and reveal the close relationship of UPt3B being
a noncentrosymmetric distorted variant of cubic perovskite ThPt3B.
Tables 1 and 2 present the experimentally observed and calculated
structural parameters for both ThPt3B and UPt3B.

### Superconductivity of ThPt3B

Measurements of the temperature dependent electrical resistivity carried
out at low temperatures down to 0.05 K reveal a superconducting
transition around 0.75 K, if the resistivity drop taken at 50

  ------------------ -------- -------- ----------- ---------------------------
                                 a         V₀       $\Delta H_{\rm cub-tot}$
                      Method    (nm)    (Å³/atom)           (kJ/mol)
  ThPt3B_((1 − b))     Expt    0.4383     16.84    
  ThPt3B               DFT     0.4355     16.52               25.09
  UPt3B                DFT     0.4298     15.88               35.41
                                 a         V₀       $\Delta H_{\rm wHB\to B}$
                                (nm)    (Å³/atom)           (kJ/mol)
  ThPt3▫               DFT     0.4158     14.38               18.72
  UPt3▫                DFT     0.4067     13.45               21.52
  ------------------ -------- -------- ----------- ---------------------------

Table 2: Structural parameters a and volume per atom V₀ for the
compounds with cubic space group $Pn\overline{3}m$ with and without
boron. Last column, upper block: total energy difference of cubic
structure relative to tetragonal structure $\Delta H_{\rm cub-tot}$. By
this amount the cubic structure is less stable than the tetragonal one.
Last column, lower block: total energy difference of cubic structures
without and with boron. By this amount the AnPt3B compound is less
stable than AnPt3+ solid B.

Figure 3: TEM selected area diffraction patterns of low index zone axes
[100], [101], [110], and [001] together with their simulations for
tetragonal UPt3B.

Figure 2: TEM selected area diffraction patterns of low index zone axes
[100], [110], [111], and [211] together with their simulations for
unambiguously cubic ThPt3B.

Lee and Ramakrishnan, Ref. [23],

$$\sigma^{3D}(T)=\sigma_{0}+\frac{e^{2}}{\hbar\pi^{3}}\frac{1}{a}T^{p/2},$$
(1)

we have fitted the data of Fig. 4(b), revealing p ≈ 2. Here, σ^(3D) is
the electrical conductivity of a three dimensional system (σ ≡ 1/ρ), σ₀
is inversely proportional to the residual resistivity, and the parameter
a is some microscopic length scale in the problem, such as the inverse
Fermi wave number. The exponent p is used to parametrize the temperature
dependence of the inelastic scattering length L_(i) through
L_(i) ∝ T^(−p/2). The value of p is usually between 1 (electron-electron
scattering) and 2 (electron-phonon scattering); p ≈ 2 refers to
predominant electron-phonon scattering in ThPt₃B, rather than
electron-electron scattering. Note, however, that the temperature
variation up to room temperature is only about 2

Figure 5(a) shows the low temperature heat capacity of ThPt₃B as a
function of external magnetic fields. In good agreement with resistivity
data, the idealized specific heat jump [dashed lines, Fig. 5(a)] right
at T = T_(c) and in zero field arises at  ≈ 0.75 K. This idealized jump
of the specific heat, ΔC_(p)/T|_(T_(c)) ≈ 5 mJ/mol K², allows the
calculation of ΔC_(p)/(γ_(n)T_(c)) ≈ 1, which is below the value
expected from the Bardeen-Cooper-Schrieffer (BCS) theory
[ΔC_(p)/(γT_(c)) ≈ 1.43] [24]. An extrapolation of the zero field
C_(p)/T data of the superconducting state towards T → 0, however,
reveals a residual Sommerfeld coefficient of about 3 to 4 mJ/mol K².
This indicates that only a fraction of Fermi surface areas contributes
to the formation of a superconducting state; additionally, a partial
suppression of superconductivity could be provoked by local
inhomogeneities and/or strain created by boron defects.

Switching on external magnetic fields shifts T_(c) to lower values,
again in agreement with resistivity data. An upturn of C_(p)/T found
experimentally at lowest temperatures and finite magnetic fields [open
symbols, Fig. 5(a)] is attributed to the nuclear contribution of ¹⁹⁵Pt
and is subtracted in terms of a standard T⁻² contribution [closed
symbols, Fig. 5(a)].

Figure 5(b) summarizes the temperature dependent upper critical field
values μ₀H_(c2) for ThPt₃B as obtained from both resistivity and
specific heat data. The initial slope μ₀H_(c2)^(′) = −0.83 T/K exhibits
an unexpectedly large range of linearity.

Essentially two mechanisms limit the value of μ₀H_(c2); orbital pair
breaking and Pauli limiting. Werthamer _et al._[21] derived an
expression (WHH model) for the upper critical field μ₀H_(c2) in terms of
orbital pair breaking, including the effect of Pauli spin paramagnetism
and spin-orbit scattering. A comparison of experimental results with the
WHH model is based on two parameters: α, the Pauli paramagnetic
limitation (_Maki parameter_) and λ_(so) describing spin-orbit
scattering. If the atomic numbers of the elements constituting the
material increase, λ_(so) is expected to increase as well.

The Maki parameter α can be estimated from the Sommerfeld value γ and
ρ₀[21], α = (3e²hγρ₀)/(2mπ²k_(B)²), with e the electron charge and m the
electron mass. Taking the experimental ρ₀ and γ yields α = 0.57 for
ThPt₃B. A value of similar magnitude can be derived from
$\alpha=5.3\times 10^{-5}(\frac{-dH_{c2}(T)}{dT})|_{T=T_{c}}$[25].

An increasing value of α reduces H_(c2) from its upper limit
h^(*) = H_(c2)/(T_(c)ϕμ₀H_(c2)/βT|_(T = T_(c))) = 0.693. Spin-orbit
scattering, on the contrary, compensates for the decrease due to the
paramagnetic limitation and restores h^(*) ≈ 0.693 for λ_(so) → ∞. Wong
_et al._[26] pointed out that λ_(so) is usually larger than 10 for 5d
compounds, which also should hold for the present Th,Pt-based system. We
have adjusted the WHH model to the experimental data [solid line in Fig.
5(b)], revealing λ_(so) ≈ 15. Note, however, H_(c2)(T → 0), is quite
insensitive for λ_(so) > 10. Although the best fit describes the high
temperature μ₀H_(c2) data reasonably well, the extremely extended linear
dependency of μ₀H_(c2) cannot be accounted for. It is interesting to
mention that linearity of μ₀H_(c2)(T) is a characteristic feature of
amorphous materials as was demonstrated, e.g., by Johnson _et al._[27].
The ρ(T) behavior of ThPt₃B (see Fig. 4) is supposed to be

Figure 4: (Color online) (a) Temperature dependent electrical
resistivity ρ of ThPt₃B. The inset shows the field response of the
superconducting transition measured at various externally applied
magnetic fields [for clarity, the legend is collected in panel (b)]. (b)
Normal state ρ(T) data of ThPt₃B at zero field. The solid line is a
least squares fit as explained in the text.

Figure 5: (Color online) (a) Low temperature specific heat C_(p) of
ThPt₃B plotted as C_(p)/T vs T for various external magnetic fields. The
dashed line sketches the idealized specific heat jump at T = T_(c). (b)
Temperature dependent upper critical field of ThPt₃B as deduced from
specific heat and resistivity measurements. The initial slope of the
upper critical field, μ₀H_(c2)^(′)(T), is about −0.83 T/K (dashed line).
The solid line corresponds to the WHH model, as explained in the text.

influenced from weak localization; thus it is in line with the general
resistivity behavior of metals in the amorphic state.

The evidence of amorphic properties may be due to the peculiar elastic
and vibrational state in which cubic ThPt₃B is. This is indicated by the
DFT derived harmonic phonon dispersions [see Fig. 7(a)] showing a
massive amount of phonon branches with imaginary frequencies even
starting from Γ.

Heat capacity data of ThPt₃B, taken in the normal state region, are
plotted in Fig. 6(a) as C_(p)/T vs T. Approximating data at lowest
temperatures by C_(p)/T = γT + βT³ yields the Sommerfeld coefficient
γ = 6.5 mJ/mol K² and the Debye temperature θ_(D)^(LT) ≃ 220 K [see
inset, Fig. 6(a)].

As phonon dynamics is a key feature for the occurrence of BCS
superconductivity, a detailed analysis of the specific heat following
the model of Junod _et al._[28, 29] allows a definition of those phonon
modes likely to be responsible for Cooper pairing. The quantitative
modeling of the vibrational spectrum follows a procedure we have
outlined in a number of previous papers (compare, e.g., Refs. [30, 31]).
Based on these considerations we have constructed an elementary phonon
spectrum comprising a Debye density of states which accounts for the low
temperature Debye temperature θ_(D)^(LT) ≃ 220 K (see above) in
combination with three additional, energetically separated Einstein-like
modes, ω_(E1), ω_(E2), and ω_(E3). The latter is included to account for
the spectral weight of three optical branches related to the high
frequency boron modes and preassigned as ω_(E3) = 600 K. Different from
the standard Einstein model of the specific heat, a certain frequency
width Δω and spectral weight for the branches ω_(E1) and ω_(E2) is
allowed. Accordingly, a further parameter θ_(D)^(*) is used to account
for the remaining (fitable) spectral weight of the Debye component which
is determined via the overall normalization of the spectral function,
g(ω). The corresponding phonon heat capacity is calculated using

$$C_{p}(T)=R\int g(\omega)\frac{\left(\frac{1}{2}\frac{hv}{k_{B}T}\right)^{2}}{ \sinh^{2}\left(\frac{1}{2}\frac{hv}{k_{B}T}\right)}d\omega,$$
(2)

where v is the phonon frequency, k_(B) the Boltzmann constant, h the
Planck constant, and R the gas constant. Beside the high frequency mode,
two low lying branches at around 33 ± 6.4 K and 72 ± 6.3 K are deduced
from this model, responsible for deviations of experimental heat
capacity data from the simple Debye model. The lowest Einstein-like
branch could provide those phonons which couple with the electrons to
form Cooper pairs.

In order to prove the predictions made above and explain the heat
capacity from an atomistic point of view, the phonon dispersion and
density of states was calculated applying DFT in terms of the software
packages vasp and fphon Refs. [6, 7, 13]. Results are shown in Figs.
7(a)-7(c).

The frequency dispersion of the vibrational modes in Fig. 7(a) reveals
the instability of the cubic phase. A very large amount of frequencies
are imaginary. In particular the imaginary branches at Γ are pointing at
an elastic instability, which directly reflects the instability against
the tetragonal distortion, as discussed previously. Particularly flat
bands appear around 3 THz. High lying bands above 12 THz are attributed
to vibrational modes of B. However, when allowing for anharmonic
coupling at 100 K according to Refs. [14, 15] the dispersions became all
real (with the exception of a small region around Γ). Performing the
anharmonic phonon calculations at temperatures below 100 K results in
significantly varying frequency dispersions below 2 THz because of the
occurrence of modes with imaginary frequencies. This finding elucidates
the high sensitivity of the vibrational properties on temperature.

Figure 7(b) summarizes the phonon dispersion along high symmetry
directions for tetragonal ThPt₃B. As already mentioned, DFT predicts a
thermodynamically stable tetragonal structure which, according to Fig.
7(b), is also dynamically stable. The three high-frequency modes at
about 12 and 16 THz are well separated from the acoustic and low lying
optical branches. The latter form very flat bands, located between 2 and
4 THz. Linear acoustic branches arising at Γ indicate elastic stability.

Figure 7(c) shows the phonon density of states (PDOS) for both the
harmonic and the anharmonic modeling of vibrations in the cubic
structure as well as the results of the harmonic calculation for the
tetragonal structure. For the cubic harmonic case there is no ω²
Debye-like behavior at small frequencies because there are no linear
acoustic branches detectable. Clearly, this property is connected to the
massive amount of states with imaginary frequencies. According to the
simplified Debye-Einstein model of Junod as applied to the measured
specific heat in Fig. 6 two low lying Einstein modes at about 0.7 THz
(33.3 K) and 1.5 THz (72.1 K) are extracted. The comparison with the
calculated PDOS shows that in the DFT calculation only weak peaks occur
in this frequency region. On the other hand, the very large
Einstein-like peak at 2.5 THz and the smaller but still pronounced peak
at 3.5 THz are not found by Junod’s model. Presumably this discrepancy
is attributable to the assumption of a Debye-like PDOS in the Junod
model

Figure 6: (Color online) Temperature dependent specific heat C_(p) of
ThPt₃B, (a) plotted as C_(p)/T vs T. The inset in (a) shows low
temperature details; (b) plotted as (C_(p) − γT)/T³ vs lnT. The dashed
line is a least squares fit of the experimental data using the model
described in the text. The essential parameters of the model used to
construct the spectral function F(ω) (solid lines, right axis) are
θ_(D)^(*) = 199 K, ω_(E1) = 33.3 K with a width of ±6.4 K, ω_(E2) = 72.1
K with a width ±6.2 K, and finally ω_(E3) = 600 K with a width ±10 K.

which is not the case for the DFT derived PDOS. There, the PDOS at low
frequencies behaves rather like $\sqrt{\omega}$ than ω². A Debye-like
PDOS is obtained for the anharmonic cubic case at 100 K and at 1.5 THz a
broad peak arises reminiscent of the second Einstein mode in Junod’s
model at about 1.2 THz.

The PDOS of tetragonal ThPt₃B exhibits a first prominent structure
around 1.6 THz. Below about 1 THz, the PDOS closely follows a Debye-like
behavior.

Taking into account Eq. (2), the heat capacity can be calculated from
the PDOS obtained from the DFT calculations [Fig. 7(c)]. It should be
noted that the PDOS shown in Fig. 7(c) are all normalized to 1.
Therefore, when states with imaginary frequencies appear (as it is the
case for cubic ThPt₃B), the PDOS has to be renormalized if it is used
for calculating thermodynamical vibrational properties such as C_(V). In
this work, C_(V) for cubic ThPt₃B in Fig. 8 is derived from the spectrum
of real frequencies. Results are plotted in Fig. 8 together with the
experimental data. Considering cubic ThPt₃B the two DFT derived curves
shown describe the experimental data very badly. For the harmonic
approximation C_(V)(T) is far too small with increasing temperature
because of the vibrational states with imaginary frequencies which are
not included. For the anharmonic approximation C_(V)(T) is significantly
too large. This calculation is done at 100 K and therefore only C_(V)(T
= 100 K) should be compared to experiment. However, by a simple linear
interpolation with respect to T–as defined in the caption of Fig. 8–a
well-fitting result (red curve in Fig. 8) is obtained. This corroborates
the claimed thermodynamically and dynamically unstable cubic structure
of ThPt₃B.

The heat capacity in the displayed temperature range for
thermodynamically stable tetragonal ThPt₃B is smaller than the
experimental result. Presumably, this is due to the more pronounced
Debye-like behavior of the low-frequency PDOS.

From electronic structure calculations a number of normal state
properties of ThPt₃B are derived. Figure 9 shows

Figure 8: (Color online) Temperature dependent specific heat C_(p) of
ThPt₃B. Filled circles: experimental data points. DFT results for C_(V)
of vibrations are shown by lines. Dark blue dashed: harmonic model for
tetragonal structure; blue dash-dotted line: harmonic model for cubic
compound (A); purple dashed line: anharmonic model at 100 K for cubic
compound (B); red full line: linear interpolation according to
C_(V)(T) = [(100 − T)C_(V)(A) + TC_(V)(B)]/100. The measured heat
capacity C_(p) is derived at constant pressure, whereas from DFT the
heat capacity at constant volume C_(V) is derived. The difference
between these two quantities is neglected.

Figure 7: (Color online) DFT calculated vibrational properties of
ThPt₃B. (a) Phonon dispersion within the harmonic model along high
symmetry directions for a cubic lattice. Imaginary frequencies are
represented by negative values. (b) Phonon dispersion within the
harmonic model along high symmetry directions for a tetragonal lattice.
(c) Phonon density of states for the cubic harmonic (full black line),
the anharmonic at 100 K model (red dashed line), and for the tetragonal
structure (blue dashed-dotted line). The phonon densities of states are
normalized to 1.

the electronic structure of cubic ThPt₃B calculated
scalar-relativistically (no spin-orbit coupling, blue dashed line) as
well as fully relativistically (with spin-orbit coupling, red solid
lines). The electronic structure depicted around the Fermi energy E_(F)
along high symmetry directions reveals several bands which intersect the
Fermi energy as a signature of a metallic state of this compound.

The calculation with spin-orbit interaction reveals a splitting of bands
at all high-symmetry points, in particular at the k⃗ points X and R for
which this splitting induced by the spin-orbit coupling is observed
close to the Fermi energy. Specifically around R, flat bands are moved
very close to the Fermi energy by the spin-orbit coupling, resulting in
a narrow peak in the density of states just below E_(F) (see also Fig.
11). A small reduction of the valence electron number by B vacancies
would shift E_(F) into this peak. However, a double (spin) degeneracy of
the energy bands remains throughout the Brillouin zone as the cubic
crystal structure does have a center of inversion.

The Fermi surface in Fig. 10 shows a very interesting extending flat
cross section perpendicular to the direction Γ − M at about
$0.4\times\overline{\Gamma\text{-}M}$. Obviously, these cross sections
offer extensive Fermi surface nesting for phonon states with wave
vectors $\vec{q}\approx 0.8\times\overline{\Gamma\text{-}M}$. It should
be noted that all such vectors related by cubic symmetry are of equal
importance for the nesting. Indeed, soft phonon modes in direction Γ − M
are found close to M, in particular the lowest branch reaching M at
about 2 THz, rising from the pool of imaginary frequencies. Such phonon
modes would be suitable to couple the Fermi surface sheets as shown in
Fig. 10 and thus maintain superconductivity.

The electronic density of states (DOS) have been calculated (Fig. 11)
for the fully relativistic case for the cubic (upper panel) and
tetragonal (lower panel) crystal structure. Local DOS of the constituent
elements are shown in various colors. The DOS value at E_(F) of 2.7
states/eV is the same for both structures, mainly built up by the
Pt-like local DOS. For the cubic structure the local DOS of Th and B are
almost negligible. Around 1 eV below the Fermi energy a pseudogap is
present for cubic ThPt₃B, which is less pronounced for the tetragonal
structure.

The DOS at Fermi energy derived from the present DFT calculations of 2.7
states/eV corresponds to a bare Sommerfeld value of γ_(b) = 6.4 mJ/mol
K², which does not take any correlations or enhancement factors into
account. The same value would be obtained if E_(F) moves down by about
0.2 eV due to the occurrence of B vacancies corresponding to a reduction
of the number of valence electrons by 0.15 states (or 5

Within the McMillan model [32], the superconducting transition
temperature T_(c) is given by

$$T_{c}=\frac{\theta_{D}}{1.45}\exp\left[\frac{-1.04(1+\lambda)}{\lambda-\mu_{c} ^{\ast}(1+0.62\lambda)}\right],$$
(3)

where λ is the dimensionless electron-phonon coupling constant, related
in terms of the Eliashberg theory to the phonon density of states. λ
determines the attractive part of the Cooper pair bonding, while μ^(*)
is the repulsive screened Coulomb part, usually set to ≈ 0.13. Applying
this simple model yields λ = 0.46, classifying ThPt₃B as a
superconductor in the weak coupling limit.

In the following section a number of parameters derived from an analysis
of superconducting and normal state properties are presented.

An integration of the entropy difference from the superconducting (s)
and the normal (n) state yields the difference of the free energies,
F_(n) − F_(s) = δF, being proportional to the thermodynamic critical
field, i.e.,

$$\delta F(T)=\frac{\mu_{0}H_{c}^{2}(T)}{2}=\int_{T_{c}}^{T}\int_{T_{c}}^{T^{ \prime}}\frac{C_{s}-C_{n}}{(T^{\prime})}dT^{\prime\prime}dT^{\prime}$$
(4)

revealing μ₀H_(c) ≈ 6 mT when extrapolating towards T = 0.

From the thermodynamic critical field, the dimensionless Ginzburg-Landau
parameter $\kappa_{GL}=H_{c2}(0)/(\sqrt{2}H_{c})\approx 43$ is
calculated. The upper critical field μ₀H_(c2)(0) = 0.42 T

Figure 10: (Color online) Fermi surface of cubic ThPt₃B referring to the
fully relativistic calculation. The corner points (in units of 2π/a) are
Γ(0 0 0), X(1/2 0 0), M(1/2 1/2 0), and X(0 1/2 0).

Figure 9: (Color online) Electronic band structure of cubic ThPt₃B
referring to the scalar-relativistic calculation omitting spin-orbit
coupling (blue dashed lines) and to the fully relativistic calculation
including spin-orbit coupling (red solid lines).

has been taken from the WHH fit [compare Fig. 5(a)]. The coherence
length ξ₀ ≃ 2.8 × 10⁻⁸ m is obtained from μ₀H_(c2) = Φ₀/(2πξ₀²), with Φ₀
being the flux quantum. Combining the Ginzburg-Landau parameter with the
coherence length, the London penetration depth results in
λ_(λ)(T → 0) ≃ 1.3 × 10⁻⁶ m.

In the standard BCS scenario [33], where quantities like the Sommerfeld
value, the residual resistivity, and the slope of the upper critical
magnetic field enter the calculations (γ = 6.5 mJ/mol K²,
μ₀H_(c2)^(′) = −0.83 T/K, and ρ₀ = 196μΩ cm), similar parameters for ξ,
κ, and λ were obtained. The ability of model calculations in this
framework can be seen, e.g., from the slope of the upper critical field
which reads |μ₀H_(c2)^(′)| = 4490γρ₀ = 0.867 T/K, in almost perfect
agreement with the experimental result, 0.83 T/K. The mean free path of
electrons within this model is obtained as l_(tr) ≈ 1.56 × 10⁻⁸ m. From
l_(tr)/ξ ≈ 0.55 we classify ThPt₃B as a superconductor in the dirty
limit; the value of κ of the order of 40 refers to an extreme type II
superconductor.

### Nonsuperconducting UPt₃B

We have studied ρ(T) of UPt₃B down to 340 mK. From resistivity
measurements neither a superconducting nor a magnetic phase transition
was observed. In contrast to ThPt₃B metallic resistivity behavior was
found in the entire temperature range. However, ρ(T) does not follow a
simple metallic behavior; rather, at lowest temperatures a behavior
according to ρ = ρ₀ + AT^(n) with n = 1.6 is observed (see Fig. 12). The
latter refers to distinct deviations from a Fermi liquid ground state
due to pronounced spin fluctuations, which are evident also from the
large value of the Sommerfeld coefficient γ = 221 mJ/mol K². Moreover,
archetypal spin fluctuation systems like YCo₂ exhibit at elevated
temperatures a tendency towards saturation, which is also evident from
Fig. 12.

The temperature dependent specific heat C_(p) of UPt₃B is plotted in
Fig. 13 as C_(p)/T vs T. The absence of any low temperature anomalies
evidences the lack of a phase transition, in agreement with the ρ(T)
data discussed above. The inset in Fig. 13 shows C_(p) for T below 15 K.
A standard procedure to isolate the magnetic contribution via
subtraction of C_(p)(T) of nonmagnetic ThPt₃B is not meaningful for
nonisotypic structure types. A fit of the low temperature data of UPt₃B
with the simple ansatz, C_(p)(T) = γ T + β T³ + δT³ln (T/T^(*))

Figure 11: (Color online) Total and site-projected electronic density of
states (DOS) of ThPt₃B for the cubic (upper panel) and the tetragonal
structure (lower panel) for the fully relativistic calculation.

Figure 12: (Color online) Temperature dependent resistivity ρ of UPt₃B.
The inset shows low temperature details and the solid line is a least
squares fit based on ρ = ρ₀ + AT^(n) with n = 1.6.

Figure 13: (Color online) Temperature dependent specific heat C_(p) of
UPt₃B plotted as C_(p)/T vs T. The inset shows low temperature details
and the solid line is a least squares fit based on a spin fluctuation
model.

where the latter term accounts for spin fluctuations reveals excellent
agreement for γ = 221 mJ/mol K² and T^(*) = 22 K (solid line, inset Fig.
13), suggesting spin fluctuations in the nearly localized regime. As our
DFT derived DOS at the Fermi energy is 6.3 states/eV, corresponding to
14.94 mJ/mol K², the substantially larger value observed from the
experiment is significantly enhanced by spin fluctuations. Assuming a
moderate value of an electron-phonon enhancement 1 + λ_(e, ph) ≈ 1.3 to
1.5, the remaining electron-spin fluctuation enhancement factor
λ_(e, spin) would be of the order of 10 to 15, a typical value for spin
fluctuation systems like UAl₂, with λ_(e, spin) = 15.6 [34].

Taking into account spin polarization, DFT results in a total magnetic
moment of 1.0 μ_(B) for ferromagnetic ordering, which breaks down for
small changes in volume. This finding corroborates the argument that
UPt₃B is close to a magnetic instability.

## V Summary

The compounds AnPt₃B have been characterized from x-ray and TEM data:
perovskite-type ThPt₃B [a = 0.4383(2) nm; $Pm\overline{3}m$] and UPt₃B
[a = 0.38906(3) and c = 0.52241(5) nm; P4mm] isotypic with the
noncentrosymmetric structure of CePt₃B. A study of bulk properties
carried out on ThPt₃B revealed a superconducting ground state below 0.75
K. Although DFT calculations achieve stable solutions for the tetragonal
noncentrosymmetric CePt₃B structure rather than for the cubic
CaTiO₃-type of structure, x-ray, TEM, and heat capacity studies
unambiguously confirm the latter type. Normal state properties of
metallic ThPt₃B are characterized by an unusual temperature dependent
electrical resistivity, decreasing almost linearly above T_(c) with
increasing temperature. Weak localization due to disorder in the
material (e.g., vacancies at the B sites) would straightforwardly
explain such a feature. Moreover, comparing the Th and the U-based
residual resistivity ratios also reveal a huge difference, about 1 to 8,
respectively. This observation suggests a significantly larger amount of
structural defects (e.g., boron vacancies) in ThPt₃B, presumably
stabilizing the cubic structure via a strain compensation mechanism.

Bulk superconductivity in ThPt₃B is supported by heat capacity results.
Although the Maki parameter, α = 0.57, is well above zero, Pauli
limiting does not occur, referring to spin-singlet pairs in the
superconducting condensate. ThPt₃B is a type II superconductor in the
dirty limit.

For cubic ThPt₃B DFT calculations for the vibrational properties reveal
a large amount of nonvibrating modes with imaginary frequencies. This
finding is the consequence of the structural instability of the cubic
compound. Relativistic DFT calculations predict appropriate Fermi
surface features by which Cooper pairs could be created, because
suitable phonon states are found in the calculated phonon dispersion.
The measured specific heat data up to 80 K are reasonably well described
by the DFT calculation for the vibrational properties interpolating the
DFT results at 0 K with calculations for anharmonic coupling at 100 K.

Tetragonal noncentrosymmetric UPt₃B does not exhibit superconductivity
or long range magnetic order above 340 mK. Rather, a spin fluctuation
scenario with a remarkably large Sommerfeld value, γ = 221 mJ/molK²,
characterizes the metallic state of this compound. DFT calculations
confirm the tetragonal structure and the occurrence of small weakly
coupled magnetic moments. The good agreement between experiment and DFT
concerning the ground state tetragonal structure of UPt₃B gives
confidence in the applied procedures. Since the same techniques were
applied to ThPt₃B it is plausible that distinct mechanisms, not
accounted for in terms of DFT, stabilize the cubic structure of ThBP₃.

## Acknowledgments

Research supported by the Austrian Science Foundation FWF, Projects No.
22295 and No. 24380. P.R. is grateful for support by Sacavem within the
action COST-P16. The DFT calculations were done on the Vienna Scientific
Cluster (VSC).

## References

* Bauer et al. (2004) E. Bauer, G. Hilscher, H. Michor, C. Paul, E.-W.
Scheidt, A. Gribanov, Y. Seropegin, H. Noel, M. Sigrist, and P. Rogl,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **92**, 027003 (2004). * Bauer and Sigrist (2012) E.
Bauer and M. Sigrist, _Non-Centrosymmetric Superconductors: Introduction
and Overview_, Lecture Notes in Physics Vol. 847 (Springer-Verlag,
Berlin, 2012). * Rodriguez-Carvajal (1993) J. Rodriguez-Carvajal,
Physica B (Amsterdam) **192**, 55 (1993). * Bauer et al. (2002) E.
Bauer, S. Berger, C. Paul, M. D. Mea, G. Hilscher, H. Michor, M.
Reissner, W. Steiner, A. Grytsiv, P. Rogl, and E. W. Scheidt, Phys. Rev.
B **66**, 214421 (2002). * Bachmann et al. (1972) R. Bachmann, F. J.
DiSalvo Jr., T. H. Geballe, R. L. Greene, R. E. Howard, C. N. King, H.
C. Kirsch, K. N. Lee, H.-U. T. R. E. Schwalal, and R. B. Zubeck, Rev.
Sci. Instrum. **43**, 205 (1972). * Kresse and Furthmuller (1996) G.
Kresse and J. Furthmuller, Phys. Rev. B **54**, 11169 (1996). * Kresse
and Joubert (1999) G. Kresse and D. Joubert, Phys. Rev. B **59**, 1758
(1999). * Blochl (1994) P. E. Blochl, Phys. Rev. B **50**, 17953
(1994). * Ceperley and Alder (1980) D. M. Ceperley and B. J. Alder,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **45**, 566 (1980). * Perdew and Zunger (1981) J. P.
Perdew and A. Zunger, Phys. Rev. B **23**, 5048 (1981). * Monkhorst and
Pack (1976) H. Monkhorst and J. Pack, Phys. Rev. B **13**, 5188
(1976). * Hummer et al. (2007) K. Hummer, A. Gruneis, and G. Kresse,
Phys. Rev. B **75**, 195211 (2007). * Alfe (2009) D. Alfe, Comput. Phys.
Commun. **180**, 2622 (2009). * Souvatzis et al. (2008) P. Souvatzis, O.
Eriksson, M. I. Katsnelson, and S. P. Rudin, Phys. Rev. Lett. **100**,
095901 (2008). * Souvatzis et al. (2009) P. Souvatzis, O. Eriksson, M.
Katsnelson, and S. Rudin, Comput. Mater. Sci. **44**, 888 (2009). *
Sologub et al. (2010) O. Sologub, P. Rogl, E. Bauer, G. Hilscher, H.
Michor, E. Royanian, G. Giester, and A. P. Goncalves, J. Phys.: Condens.
Matter **22**, 125601 (2010). * Lerch et al. (2009) D. Lerch, O.
Wieckhorst, G. Hart, R. Forcade, and S. Mueller, Modell. Simul. Mater.
Sci. Eng. **17**, 055003 (2009). * Loe et al. (1976) I. Loe, I. McColm,
and T. Quigley, J. Less-Common Met. **46**, 217 (1976).

* [19] J. P. Perdew, K. Burke, and M. Ernzerhof, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**77**, 3865 (1996). * [20] P. Stadelmann, JEMS-EMS java version, 2014,
URL http://cimew.epfl.ch/people/stadelmann/jemsWebSite/jems.html. * [21]
N. R. Werthamer, E. Helfand, and P. C. Hohenberg, Phys. Rev. **147**,
295 (1966). * [22] T. Khan, E. Royanian, H. Michor, A. Gribanov, P.
Rogl, and E. Bauer (in preparation). * [23] P. A. Lee and T. V.
Ramakrishnan, Rev. Mod. Phys. **57**, 287 (1985). * [24] J. Bardeen, L.
N. Cooper, and J. R. Schrieffer, Phys. Rev. **108**, 1175 (1957). * [25]
K. Maki, Phys. Rev. **148**, 362 (1966). * [26] K. M. Wong, E. J. Cotts,
and S. J. Poon, Phys. Rev. B **30**, 1253 (1984). * [27] W. L. Johnson,
S. J. Poon, and P. Duwez, Phys. Rev. B **11**, 150 (1975). * [28] A.
Junod, D. Bichsel, and J. Muller, Helv. Phys. Acta **52**, 580 (1979). *
[29] A. Junod, T. Jarlborg, and J. Muller, Phys. Rev. B **27**, 1568
(1983). * [30] E. Bauer, A. Grytsiv, X.-Q. Chen, N. Melnychenko-Koblyuk,
G. Hilscher, H. Kaldarar, H. Michor, E. Royanian, G. Giester, M. Rotter,
R. Podloucky, and P. Rogl, Phys. Rev. Lett. **99**, 217001 (2007). *
[31] A. Grytsiv, X.-Q. Chen, N. Melnychenko-Koblyuk, P. Rogl, E. Bauer,
G. Hilscher, H. Kaldarar, H. Michor, E. Royanian, R. Podloucky, M.
Rotter, and G. Giester, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **77**, 121 (2008). * [32] W.
L. McMillan, Phys. Rev. **167**, 331 (1968). * [33] T. P. Orlando, E. J.
McNiff, S. Foner, and M. R. Beasley, Phys. Rev. B **19**, 4545 (1979). *
[34] K. Ikeda, S. K. Dhar, M. Yoshizawa, and K. A Gschneidner Jr., J.
Magn. Magn. Mater. **100**, 292 (1991).
