# Gap anisotropy, spin fluctuations, and normal-state properties

of the electron-doped superconductor Sr0.9La0.1CuO2

G. V. M. Williams

12 Physikalisches Institut, Universitat Stuttgart, D-70550 Stuttgart,
Germany

R. Dupree

2Industrial Research Limited, P.O. Box 31310, Lower Hutt, New Zealand

3Department of Physics, University of Warwick, Coventry, CV4 7AL,
England

3School of Chemical and Physical Sciences, Victoria University, Private
Bag, Wellington, New Zealand

3National Creative Research Initiative Center for Superconductivity and
Department of Physics, Pohang University of Science and Technology,
Pohang 790-784, Republic of Korea

A. Howes

5National Creative Research Initiative Center for Superconductivity and
Department of Physics, Pohang University of Science and Technology,
Pohang 790-784, Republic of Korea

S. Kramer

2Industrial Research Limited, P.O. Box 31310, Lower Hutt, New Zealand

H. J. Trodahl

5National Creative Research Initiative Center for Superconductivity and
Department of Physics, Pohang University of Science and Technology,
Pohang 790-784, Republic of Korea

C. U. Jung

5National Creative Research Initiative Center for Superconductivity and
Department of Physics, Pohang University of Science and Technology,
Pohang 790-784, Republic of Korea

Min-Scok Park

5National Creative Research Initiative Center for Superconductivity and
Department of Physics, Pohang University of Science and Technology,
Pohang 790-784, Republic of Korea

Sung-Ik Lee

2Industrial Research Limited, P.O. Box 31310, Lower Hutt, New Zealand

2 January 2002

###### Abstract

We report the results from a thermopower and a Cu nuclear magnetic
resonance (NMR) study of the infinite-CuO2-layer electron-doped
high-temperature superconducting cuprate (HTSC) Sr0.9La0.1CuO2. We find
that the temperature dependence of the thermopower, S(T), is different
from that observed in the hole-doped HTSC. In particular, we find that
dS(T)/dT is positive above ∼120 K. However, we show that S(T) can still
be described by the same model developed for the hole-doped HTSC and
hence S(T) is not anomalous and does not imply phonon-mediated pairing
as has previously been suggested. The Cu NMR data reveal a Knight shift
and spin lattice relaxation rate _below_T_(c) that are inconsistent with
isotropic s-wave pairing. The Cu spin lattice relaxation rate in the
normal state, however, is Curie-Weiss like and is comparable to that of
the optimally and overdoped hole-doped HTSC La2.2.5Sr2CuO4. The
magnitude of the Knight shift indicates that the density of states at
the Fermi level is anomalously small when compared with the hole-doped
HTSC with the same T_(c) , indicating that the size of N(E_(f)) is of
little importance in the HTSC. We find no evidence of the normal state
pseudogap that is observed in the hole-doped HTSC and which was recently
reported to exist in the electron-doped HTSC Nd1.85Ca0.15CuO4 from
infrared reflectance measurements.

pacs: 74.72.-h, 74.25.Ha, 74.25.Nf + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL
REVIEW B, VOLUME 65, 224520

## I Introduction

One of the major difficulties in developing a consistent theoretical
model of superconductivity in the high-temperature superconducting
cuprates (HTSC’s) is understanding the magnetic and electronic behavior
of the hole-doped and electron-doped HTSC’s. It is now generally agreed
that the hole-doped HTSC’s (HDHTSC’s) have a d-wave superconducting
order parameter, [1, 2] show a normal-state pseudogap for low hole
doping, [3] and exhibit a non-Korringa relationship between the Cu
spin-lattice relaxation rate and the Cu Knight shift. [4] This
non-Korringa behavior has been attributed to the Cu spin-lattice
relaxation rate being dominated by coupling to antiferromagnetic
fluctuations. [4] The situation in the electron-doped HTSC’s (EDHTSC’s),
based on R_(2 − x)Ce_(x)CuO₄ (R is a rare earth), is not so clear. There
are conflicting reports concerning the symmetry of the superconducting
order parameter. [5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10] Furthermore, it has recently been
reported that a pseudogap exists when superconductivity is suppressed by
high magnetic fields, but only for temperatures less than ∼25 K, [11,
12, 13] or there exists a pseudogap in the normal state for temperatures
up to 300 K. [14] The understanding of the spin dynamics is hampered by
the magnetic rare-earth atom, which is believed to dominate the
spin-lattice relaxation. It is known that the nuclear quadrupole
frequency is anonymously small when compared to that of the HDHTSC’s,
which is not understood. [15]

Previous reports of NMR measurements on the infinite-layer EDHTSC
Sr1.1a.1La0.1CuO2 (Refs. [16, 17, 18]) have shown that the Cu
spin-lattice relaxation rate in the normal state increases with
decreasing temperature, although the absolute values of the Cu
spin-lattice relaxation rate are different in these studies. This
compound has the advantage that it does not contain magnetic rare-earth
ions that can affect the NMR data. Furthermore, the superconducting
transition temperature T_(c) is much higher [∼40 K (Ref. [19])] than
that in the other EDHTSC’s R_(2 − x)Ce_(x)CuO₄ , where superconductivity
exists for lower temperatures of <25 K and the occurrence of
superconductivity and the Meissner fraction depends upon aggressive
annealing at high temperatures in a reducing atmosphere. The one
disadvantage of Sr0.9La0.1CuO2 is that it must be made using a
high-pressure synthesis technique and incorrect synthesis can lead to
site disorder, the partial formation of the one dimensional (1D)
antiferromagnetic insulator SrCuO2, as well as the antiferromagnetic
insulator La2CuO4.

Interest in the infinite-layer compound has recently been revived by a
report that the carrier concentration of CaCuO2 can be altered by
field-effect doping, resulting in hole-doped or electron-doped
superconductors. [20] It is therefore important to compare the normal-
and superconducting-state properties of the infinite-layer
superconductors with those from the HDHTSC’s. For example, tunneling
spectra and the rate at which T_(c) is suppressed by Zn and Ni have been
interpreted in terms of an s-wave superconducting order parameter, [21,
22, 23, 24] which would appear to suggest a different superconducting
pairing mechanism when compared with the HDHTSC’s. Furthermore, a
thermopower study has concluded that the superconducting pairing
mechanism is phonon mediated. [25] In this paper we report the results
from a Cu NMR study and a variable-temperature thermopower study of the
infinite-layer EDHTSC Sr_(0.5)La_(0.1)CuO₂. Dense high-quality samples
of this compound have recently been synthesized with a high
superconducting transition temperature of 43 K [23]. We compare our
results with those from previous measurements on the HDHTSC’s.

## Experimental Details

The sample for this study was prepared using the high-pressure technique
described elsewhere [23, 26]. The dc magnetization measurements were
made using a superconducting quantum interference device (SQUID)
magnetometer, where the remnant field was ±0.1 mT. The data were not
corrected for demagnetizing effects. Variable-temperature thermopower
measurements were made using the standard temperature differential
technique. X-ray diffraction measurements confirmed that the sample was
single phase.

Cu NMR measurements were made on both unorientated powder and
c-axis-aligned powder samples in resin. Powder spectra were obtained at
fields of 5.6, 8.45, and 14.1 T, point by point using the π/2-τ-τ-τ Hahn
pulse sequence, where π/2 was between 2 and 10 μs and τ was between 30
and 40 μs. The second half of the echo was Fourier transformed and then
integrated, or summed, to obtain the intensity at each frequency. As the
probes used to obtain the spectra had a Cu background, data were not
taken near this frequency. The temperature dependence of the shift and
the ⁶³Cu spin lattice relaxation time ⁶³T₁ were measured at 9 T in a
probe with no Cu background. The NMR shift was referenced to an aqueous
CuCl solution. The ⁶³Cu spin-lattice relaxation rate T₁⁻¹ was obtained
using both the inversion recovery technique and from the magnetization
recovery after the application a saturating comb of π/2 pulses. In both
cases the magnetization recovery for the I = 3/2 Cu nuclei for magnetic
relaxation (Δm = ± 1) is [27]

$$M(\tau) = M_{0}\Bigg{[} 1 - \Gamma\Bigg{[} A\exp\Bigg{\langle} - \frac{\tau}{T_{1}}\Bigg{]}$$
(1)
$$+ B\exp\Bigg{[} - \frac{3\,\tau}{T_{1}}\Bigg{)} + C\exp\Bigg{\langle} - \frac{6\,\tau}{T_{1}}\Bigg{]}\Bigg{\rangle}\Bigg{]},$$

where τ denotes the time between the inversion pulse or the last
saturation pulse, and Γ is 2 for perfect inversion, and 1 for the
application of a perfect π/2 saturating comb. The coefficients A, B, and
C depend on the initial excitation conditions. For the inversion or
saturation of the central ±1/2 transition without exchange between the
other levels, it can be shown that A = 0.1, B = 0, and C = 0.9. In the
presence of fast exchange processes these coefficients change to A =
0.4, B = 0, and C = 0.6. It was found that the second scenario better
fitted the data. The excitation of the + 1/2↔ + 3/2 and − 1/2↔ - 3/2
transitions results in different A and C values and a nonzero B value.

## Results and Analysis

The temperature-dependent thermoelectric power S(T) shown in Fig. 1 is
zero in the superconducting state, as required for a strictly perfect
superconductor. It becomes finite and negative at the transition
temperature of 44 K determined from susceptibility measurements (see
Fig. 1, inset). The thermopower continues to become more negative until
reaching a maximum negative value near 110 K and then falls toward zero.

It is interesting to compare this behavior to that in the HDHTSC, in
which a very general trend has emerged. In those materials the
thermopower just above the superconducting transition temperature falls
with a nearly constant (and approximately universal) slope [28, 29]. The
magnitude near the superconducting transition temperature depends on the
doping level, which has led to its use as a gauge of the hole
concentration [30]. The only superconducting cuprates to deviate from
this general behavior are those with conducting chains and/or ribbons,
which are thought to make their own positive slope contribution to the
thermopower [31]. An interpretation of this generic behavior is
available based on the doping dependence of the Fermi surface and a
conventional treatment of the charge carrying quasiparticles [32].
Within this picture the thermopower is comprised of a diffusion
contribution, linear in temperature with a sign and magnitude that are
determined by the Mott formula, and a phonon drag contribution S_(g),
which is given by

S_(g) = A(C_(a)N|e|)(W_(pe)/W_(p)).

Figure 1: Plot of the thermopower against temperature. Also shown is the
low-temperature (dashed curve) and high-temperature (solid curve) fit to
Eq. (3) in the text. Inset: plot of the zero-field-cooled (solid curve)
and field-cooled (dashed curve) dc susceptibility for an applied
magnetic field of 2 mT.

Here C_(a) is the volumetric heat capacity of the acoustic phonons, N is
the concentration of carriers, e is the electronic charge, W_(p) is the
scattering rate for phonons, and W_(pe) is the contribution from events
in which the phonons are scattered by electrons. The sign and magnitude
of the constant A are determined by a balance of scattering events in
which the electron traverses filled versus empty states in reciprocal
space.

The generic behavior of the thermopowers in the HDHTSC then fits within
this picture as being a contribution of a diffusion term and the
temperature independent phonon drag contribution imposed by the heat
capacity at temperatures above the acoustic phonon maximum. This
interpretation implies that there is no temperature dependence in the
ratio W_(pe)/W_(p), consistent with a picture in which the
temperature-dependent anharmonic phonon-phonon scattering does not
significantly limit the phonon lifetime. Similar behavior is
occasionally found also in conventional metals,[33] although it is more
common to find that the phonon drag contribution falls as 1/T above the
Debye temperature, where anharmonic scattering limits the phonon
lifetime.[34, 35] Thus, in conventional metals, one usually finds a
low-temperature thermopower showing a linear temperature diffusion
component and a cubic temperature phonon drag component, while at higher
temperatures the drag contribution is inversely dependent on the
temperature. It can be seen in Fig. 1 that the thermopower in the
present case conforms to the more common behavior

S(T) = a₁T + a₂T³
(3a) for low temperatures and,
S(T) = a₁T + a₃/T
(3b)

for high temperatures. The linear diffusion term coefficient a₁ and the
low- and high-temperature phonon drag coefficients a₂ and a₃ are fitted
as a₁ = −0.00122μ V K⁻², a₂ = −430μV K⁻⁴, and a₃ = −1.15 × 10⁻⁵μV. The
magnitudes found for the various contributions are entirely reasonable
when compared to either theoretical expectations or to data on the
HDHTSC or conventional metals.[34] The high-temperature 1/T attenuation
of S_(g) caused by the ratio W_(pe)/W_(p) is, however, weak, suggesting
that even here the phonon lifetime is limited more strongly by electrons
than by anharmonicity. There is no evidence of any deviation from the
expected behavior that might suggest the development of a pseudogap.

Finally, we note that there is an earlier report of thermopower
measurements on thin films of the EDHTSC Sr_(0.9)Nd_(0.1)CuO₂, where
T_(c) varied from 24 K to nonsuperconducting.[25] In that report the
thermopower data were also fitted to a sum of linear temperature and
inverse temperature terms, though the temperature range chosen (<90 K)
was inappropriate for assigning the inverse-temperature behavior to a
phonon drag contribution. Consequently, the conclusion that the
low-temperature thermopower data (<90 K) from the thin-film samples
implies phonon-mediated pairing in the EDHTSC is also inappropriate.

We now consider the Cu NMR data. We show in Fig. 2 that the
room-temperature ⁶³Cu NMR powder spectra are narrow and nearly
independent of applied magnetic field. Here we plot the ⁶³Cu NMR powder
spectra for applied magnetic fields of 5.6 T (open circles), 8.45 T
(solid circles), and 14.1 T (solid up triangles) against the NMR shift
referenced to aqueous CuCl. The ⁶³Cu NMR spectra for all three applied
magnetic fields contain a narrow region of ∼0.9

We show in Fig. 3 that the ⁶³Cu NMR spectrum from a c-axis-aligned
sample at 9 T with c⊥B shifts to lower frequency for temperatures below
T_(c) and there is a significant increase in the linewidth as can be
seen in the inset to Fig. 3. An increase in the ⁶³Cu NMR linewidth is
also observed in the HDHTSC and it has been associated with vortices in
a type-II superconductor and the formation of a flux lattice at low
temperatures.[37] The corresponding ⁶³Cu NMR shift δ_(ab) is plotted in
Fig. 4, where it can be seen that δ_(ab) is temperature independent in
the normal state as reported by Mikhalev _et al.[18]_ from measurements
on an unaligned powder sample. Imai _et al.[16]_ also noted that the
δ_(ab) was temperature independent, but the shift data were not
presented. The ⁶³Cu NMR shift can be understood by noting that, for
axial symmetry, the total NMR shift δ_(α) of the central transition in
an external field B directed in the α direction with respect to the
crystal frame shift can be written as

Figure 2: Plot of the ⁶³Cu NMR spectra against the ⁶³Cu NMR shift δ at
293 K for an applied magnetic field of 5.6 T (open circles), 8.45 T
(solid circles), and 14.1 T (solid up triangles).

$$\delta_{\alpha} = \frac{\Delta\nu_{\alpha}}{\nu_{0}} = 6^{3}K_{s,\alpha}(T) + 6^{3}K_{\rm{orb},\alpha} + K_{\rm{dia},\alpha} + \frac{\Delta\nu_{Q,\alpha}^{(2)}}{\nu_{0}},$$
(4)

where α is ab for c∥B or c for c⊥B, Δν_(α) is the shift in frequency
from the Larmor frequency ν₀, ⁶³K_(s, α)(T) is the temperature-dependent
Knight shift, ${}^{63}K_{\rm{orb},\alpha}$ is the
temperature-independent orbital shift, $K_{\rm{dia},\alpha}$ is the
diamagnetic shift due to the superconducting screening currents, and
Δν_(Q, α)⁽²⁾Jν₀ is the second-order nuclear quadrupole shift. The
diamagnetic shift decreases with increasing magnetic field due to
increased flux penetration. We estimate this shift in a manner similar
to Zheng _et al._,[38] where the previous estimate was made for the
HDHTSC YBa₂Cu₄O₈ and found to be close to the experimental value. Using
the experimentally determined values of the penetration depth and the
superconducting coherence length,[21] we find that
$K_{\rm{dia},\alpha}$≈−0.007

The second-order quadrupole term in Eq. (4) is large in the HDHTSC
because of the large electric field gradient at the Cu nucleus, and it
can be the dominant term, leading to a NMR shift of up to 3.5

A temperature-independent ⁶³K_(s, ⊥)(T) for T>50 K is not generally
observed in the HDHTSC, except in the slightly overdoped region. For
underdoped HDHTSC’s, it is found that ⁶³K_(s)(T) decreases with
decreasing temperature in the normal state, which has been attributed to
a normal-state pseudogap.[39, 40] In the heavily overdoped region,
⁶³K_(s)(T) increases with decreasing temperature in the normal state,
which may be due to the proximity to a van Hove singularity. A varying
density of states (DOS) within ∼2k_(B)T of the Fermi level, E_(f),
affects the Knight shift because the Knight shift is proportional to the
static spin susceptibility, which can be expressed as
χ_(s)(T)∝_(−∞)^(∑_(n))N_(s)(ε)(−∂f(ε)/∂ε)dε, where ε=E−E_(f), N_(s)(ε)
is the DOS, and f(ε) is the Fermi function. Consequently, the absence of
a decrease in ⁶³K_(s, ⊥)(T) with decreasing temperature indicates that
there is no significant normal-state pseudogap in the EDHTSC,
Sr_(0.9)La_(0.1)CuO₂. Rather, the Fermi surface is flat at least for
energies within ∼2k_(B)T of the Fermi energy.

The Knight shift above 50 K is estimated from Fig. 4 and, by accounting
for the small diamagnetic correction, to be 0.09

Figure 4: Plot of the ⁶³Cu NMR shift δ_(ab) for c⊥B and 9 T. Inset: plot
of the ⁶³Cu NMR shift for c⊥B and over a smaller temperature range. Also
shown is the expected temperature dependence for an isotropic s-wave
superconducting order parameter (dotted curve), a d-wave superconducting
order parameter (dashed curve), and a d-wave superconducting order
parameter with a residual DOS of $N_{\rm{res}}(E)/N_{0}$=0.25 (solid
curve) where 2Δ/k_(B)T_(c)=7 (Ref. [22]).

Figure 3: Plot of the ⁶³Cu NMR spectra for an applied magnetic field of
9 T at 10 K (dot-dashed curve), 20 K (dashed curve), 30 K (dotted
curve), and 40 K (solid curve) for c⊥B. Inset: plot of the corresponding
linewidths.

N(E_(f)) found in Sr_(0.9)La_(0.1)CuO₂ when compared with the HDHTSC is
likely to be due to the different band structures.

It can be seen in the insert to Fig. 4 that the Knight shift decreases
for temperatures below T_(c) due to the decreased DOS near E_(f) in the
superconducting state. However, the Knight shift cannot be fitted by
assuming either an s-wave superconducting order parameter (dotted curve)
or a d-wave superconducting order parameter (dashed curve) using the
experimentally observed 2Δ/k_(B)T_(c) = 7.[22] The effect of the small
temperature-dependent diamagnetic correction is not large enough to
account for this discrepancy. A similar problem exists with the HDHTSC
where the Knight shift can be nearly temperature independent for low
temperatures,[36] although it should be linearly dependent on
temperature due to the d-wave symmetry of the superconducting order
parameter. It has been suggested that the nearly-temperature-independent
Knight shift observed in some of the HDHTSC’s for T ≪ T_(c) is due to a
finite DOS at the Fermi level.[36, 41] We show by the solid curve in the
inset to Fig. 4 the theoretical δ_(ab) obtained by assuming a d-wave
superconducting order parameter and a similar residual DOS with
$N_{\rm res}(E)/N_{0}\!=\!0.25$, where N₀ is the DOS in the normal
state. It can be seen that this does give a better representation of the
data.

The ⁶³Cu spin lattice relaxation after partial inversion is shown in the
inset of Fig. 5. Here we plot the data as [M₀  − M(π)]M₀ at 23 K. The
recovery after partial inversion can be fitted to Eq. (1) using
1 < Γ <  2 with the coefficients A = 0.4, B = 0, and C = 0.6. This can
be contrasted with the report by Mikhalev _et al.[18]_ where the
coefficients used were A = 0.2, B = 0, and C = 0.8, but the coefficient
in one of the exponential exponents was not reported. The values used by
Imai _et al.[16]_ were A = 0.1, B = 0, and C = 0.9. The resultant
1/⁶³T₁T is plotted in Fig. 5 where it can be seen that 1/⁶³T₁T increases
with decreasing temperature in the normal state even though the NMR
shift is independent of temperature in the normal state, which means
that the Korringa relation ⁶³T₁T⁶³K_(s) = const is not observed in this
EDHTSC. A similar departure from Korringa behavior is observed in the
HDHTSC. We note that our 1/⁶³T₁T are larger than those previously
observed. For example 1/⁶³T₁T at 300 K is reported to be ∼  7 s⁻¹ K⁻¹ by
Imai _et al._ and ∼  3 s⁻¹ K⁻¹ by Mikhalev _et al._ compared with ∼  11
s⁻¹ K⁻¹ in this study.

It is apparent in Fig. 5 that 1/⁶³T₁T in the normal state is remarkable
similar to that observed in the optimally and overdoped HDHTSC
La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄ (x > 0.15). The expected behavior of 1/⁶³T₁T in the
normal state can be understood by noting that for metallic and magnetic
systems,[42](T₁T)⁻¹ = (1/2)ℏ k_(B) γ_(n)²Σ_(q)|A(q)|²χ^(′′)(q, ω₀)/ℏ ω₀,
where |A(q)| is the form factor containing on-site and transferred
hyperfine coupling constants, γ_(n) is the nuclear gyromagnetic ratio,
and χ^(′′)(q, ω₀) is the imaginary part of the dynamical spin
susceptibility at the Larmor frequency, ω₀/2π. In the case of the
HDHTSC, there is clear evidence from inelastic neutron scattering
studies that antiferromagnetic fluctuations exist. Thus it is assumed
that 1/⁶³T₁T in the HDHTSC is dominated by coupling to the
antiferromagnetic spin fluctuation spectrum, leading to an increase in
1/⁶³T₁T with decreasing temperature.[4] Hence the observation that the
temperature dependence and absolute values of 1/⁶³T₁T from
Sr_(0.9)La_(0.1)CuO₂ are comparable to the HDHTSC is consistent with
both the HDHTSC and the EDHTSC having a similar spin fluctuation
spectrum.

We note that for most underdoped HDHTSC, 1/⁶³T₁T is found to start to
decrease for temperatures below a characteristic temperature T* that is
above T_(c), which has been attributed to a normal-state pseudogap.[43,
44] The absence of a similar decrease in 1/⁶³T₁T plotted in Fig. 3 is
consistent with there being no significant normal-state pseudogap near
q  = (π, π) in the EDHTSC Sr_(0.9)La_(0.1)CuO₂.

Below T_(c) we find that 1/⁶³T₁, plotted in Fig. 6, cannot be
interpreted in terms of an isotropic s-wave superconducting

Figure 6: Plot of 1/⁶³T₁ against temperature (circles). Also shown is
1/⁶³T₁ expected for a d-wave superconducting order parameter (dashed
curve) and a d-wave superconducting order parameter with
$N_{\rm res}(E)/N_{0}\!=\!0.25$ (dotted curve) and
$N_{\rm res}(E)/N_{0}\!=\!0.5$ (solid curve).

order parameter. For an isotropic s-wave superconducting order
parameter, coherence effects should cause 1/6³T₁ to initially increase
for temperatures just below T_(c) and then rapidly decrease where
1/6³T₁^(∘)exp(−Δ/k_(B)T) is expected for ≪T_(c) . It can be seen in Fig.
6 that, in agreement with the report by Imai _et al._, there is no
evidence of a coherence peak in 1/6³T₁ near T_(c) for B = 9 T.
Furthermore, it is apparent that 1/6³T₁≪T when T≪T_(c) . The values of
1/6³T₁ at low temperature are significantly greater than those expected
from a superconductor with a d-wave superconducting order parameter and
in zero field. The predicted temperature dependence of 1/6³T₁ in zero
field and for a d-wave superconductor can be obtained from
1/6³T₁^(∘)≃TN(E)/(E)[1 −f(E)]dE. The resultant curve is plotted in Fig.
6 (dashed curve) where it can be seen that 1/6³T₁ should be proportional
to T³ for T≪T_(c) . This is observed in the HDHTSC YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) from
zero-field NMR measurements, but not in the La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄ where
1/6³T₁ is proportional to T for optimally and overdoped samples [36]. A
linear dependence of 1/6³T₁ for T≪T_(c) can arise from a residual DOS as
shown by the dotted curve in Fig. 6. Here we use the same DOS used to
analyze the NMR shift plotted in Fig. 4 (dotted curve), where
$N_{\rm res}(E)/N_{0}$ = 0.25. Increasing the residual DOS can lead to a
better representation of the data as shown in Fig. 6 where we use
$N_{\rm res}(E)/N_{0}$ = 0.5 (solid curve). However, this implies a
significantly larger residual DOS than found in some of the pure HDHTSC.
It is possible that there is an additional relaxation contribution from
the fluxoids, which can lead to a low-temperature spin lattice
relaxation rate that is proportional to T[45].

## Conclusion

In conclusion, we find that the temperature dependence of the
normal-state thermopower from the infinite-layer EDHTSC
Sr_(0.9)La_(0.1)CuO₂ is different from that observed in the other
HTSC’s. In particular, dS(T)/dT is positive for temperatures above 120
K, which is not observed in HDHTSC’s that only contain CuO₂ planes.
However, S(T) can be fitted to the thermopower model developed for the
HDHTSC’s where the thermopower is modeled in terms of a diffusion term
and a phonon drag term. Consequently, a previous interpretation of the
thermopower data from Sr_(0.9)La_(0.1)CuO₂ thin films in terms of
phonon-mediated pairing is inappropriate. The ⁶³Cu Knight shift from the
EDHTSC Sr_(0.9)La_(0.1)CuO₂ is much smaller than from the HDHTSC with
the same T_(c) , which we interpret in terms of a much smaller DOS at
the Fermi level. Furthermore, the ⁶³Cu Knight shift is temperature
independent in the normal state, indicating a flat DOS at least for
energies ∼ 2k_(B)T from the Fermi level. These imply that theories
developed to explain the origin of superconductivity in the HTSC’s that
are based on the simple band structure effects cannot be applied to this
EDHTSC. We find that the temperature dependence and absolute values of
1/6³T₁T in the normal state are similar to those of the optimally doped
and overdoped HDHTSC La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₂, implying that the electron
and hole-doped HTSC’s have the same dynamical spin susceptibility. Below
T_(c) the ⁶³Cu NMR shift and 1/6³T₁ decrease more slowly than expected
for an isotropic s-wave superconductor. We show that this can be
interpreted in terms of a d-wave superconducting order parameter, a
residual DOS and additional relaxation by fluxoids. Thus the
significantly smaller DOS, the flat DOS within 2k_(B)T of the Fermi
level, but comparable dynamical spin susceptibility and symmetry of the
superconducting order parameter would appear to suggest that the pairing
mechanism is mediated by antiferromagnetic spin fluctuations as
suggested by some of the models of the HDHTSC.

## Acknowledgments

We acknowledge useful discussion with M. Mehring and J. Haase and
funding support from the New Zealand Marsden Fund (G.V.M.W., H.J.T), the
Alexander von Humboldt Foundation (G.V.M.W.), the UK EPSRC (R.D. and
A.H.), and the Ministry of Science and Technology of Korea through the
Creative Research Initiative Program (C.U.J., M.S.P., and S.-I.L.).

## References

* (1) Z. X. Shen, W. E. Spicer, D. M. King, D. S. Dessau, and B. O.
Wells, Science **267**, 343 (1995). * (2) J. R. Kirtley, C. C. Tsuei, J.
Z. Sun, C. C. Chi, L. S. Yujahnes, A. Gupta, M. Rupp, and M. B. Ketchen,
Nature (London) **373**, 225 (1995). * (3) A. G. Loeser, Z. X. Shen, D.
S. Dessau, D. S. Marshall, C. H. Park, P. Fournier, and A. Kapitulnik,
Science **273**, 325 (1996). * (4) A. J. Millis, H. Monien, and D.
Pines, Phys. Rev. B **42**, 167 (1990). * (5) S. Kashawaya, T. Ito, K.
Oka, S. Ueno, H. Takashima, M. Koyanagi, Y. Tanaka, and K. Kajimura,
Phys. Rev. B **57**, 8680 (1998). * (6) L. Alff, S. Meyer, S. Kleefisch,
U. Schoop, A. Marx, H. Sato, M. Naito, and R. Gross, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**83**, 2644 (1999). * (7) J. A. Skinta, T. R. Lemberger, T. Greibe, and
M. Naito, Phys. Rev. Lett. **88**, 207003 (2002); J. A. Skinta, M.-S.
Kim, T. R. Lemberger, T. Greibe, and M. Naito, _ibid._**88**, 207005
(2002). * (8) C. C. Tsuei and J. R. Kirtley, Phys. Rev. Lett. **85**,
182 (2000). * (9) R. Prozorov, W. Giannetta, P. Fournier, and R. L.
Greene, Phys. Rev. Lett. **85**, 3700 (2000). * (10) N. P. Armitage, D.
H. Lu, D. L. Feng, C. Kim, A. Damascelli, K. M. Shen, F. Ronning, Z.-X.
Shen, Y. Onose, Y. Taguchi, and Y. Tokura, Phys. Rev. Lett. **86**, 1126
(2001). * (11) S. Kleefisch, B. Welter, A. Marx, L. Alff, R. Gross, and
M. Naito, Phys. Rev. B **63**, 100507 (2001). * (12) A. Biswas, P.
Fournier, V. N. Smolyaninova, R. C. Budhani, J. S. Higgins, and R. L.
Greene, Phys. Rev. B **64**, 104519 (2001). * (13) N. P. Armitage, D. H.
Lu, C. Kim, A. Damascelli, K. M. Shen, F. Ronning, D. L. Feng, P.
Bogdanov, Z.-X. Shen, Y. Onose, Y. Taguchi, Y. Tokura, P. K. Mang, N.
Kaneko, and M. Greven, Phys. Rev. Lett. **87**, 147003 (2001). * [14] E.
J. Singley, D. N. Basov, K. Kurahashi, T. Uefuji, and K. Yamada, Phys.
Rev. B **64**, 224503 (2001). * [15] S. Kambe, H. Yasuoka, H. Takagi, S.
Uchida, and Y. Tokura, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **60**, 400 (1991). * [16] T.
Imai, C. P. Slichter, J. L. Cobb, and J. T. Markert, J. Phys. Chem.
Solids **56**, 1921 (1995). * [17] T. Imai, C. P. Slichter, K.
Yoshimura, M. Katoh, K. Kosuge, J. L. Cobb, and J. T. Markert, Physica C
**235-240**, 1627 (1994). * [18] K. Mikalev, K. Kumagai, Y. Furukawa, V.
Bobrovski, T. D’yachkova, N. Kad’irova, and A. Gerashenko, Physica C
**304**, 165 (1998). * [19] M. G. Smith, A. Manthiram, J. Zhou, J. B.
Goodenough, and J. T. Markert, Nature (London) **351**, 549 (1991). *
[20] J. H. Schon, M. Dorget, F. C. Beuran, X. Z. Zu, E. Arushanov, C.
Deville Carellin, and M. Lagues, Nature (London) **414**, 434 (2001). *
[21] Mun-Seog Kim, C. U. Jung, J. Y. Kim, Jae-Hyuk Choi, and Sung-Ik
Lee, cond-mat/0102420 (unpublished). * [22] C.-T. Chen, P. Seneor, N.-C.
Yeh, R. P. Vasquez, L. D. Bell, C. U. Jung, J. Y. Kim, Min-Seok Park,
Heon-Jung Kim, and Sunk-Ik Lee, Phys. Rev. Lett. **88**, 227002
(2002). * [23] C. U. Jung, J. Y. Kim, S. M. Lee, M. S. Kim, Y. Yao, S.
Y. Lee, S. I. Lee, and D. H. Ha, Physica C **364**, 225 (2001). * [24]
C. U. Jung, Mun-Seog Kim, C. U. Jung, J. Y. Kim, Jae-Hyuk Choi, and
Sung-Ik Lee, cond-mat/0106441 (unpublished). * [25] E. C. Jones, D. P.
Norton, B. C. Sales, D. H. Lowndes, and R. Feenstra, Phys. Rev. B
**52**, 743 (1995). * [26] C. U. Jung, Min-Seok Park, W. N. Kang,
Mun-Seog Kim, Kijoon H. P. Kim, S. Y. Lee, and Sung-Ik Lee, Appl. Phys.
Lett. **78**, 4157 (2001). * [27] E. R. Andrew and D. P. Tunstall, Proc.
R. Soc. London, Ser. A **78**, 1 (1961). * [28] A. B. Kaiser and C.
Uher, in _High Temperature Superconductors_, edited by A. V. Narlokar
(Nova, Commack, NY, 1991), Vol. 7. * [29] C. R. Varoy, H. J. Trodahl, R.
G. Buckley, and A. B. Kaiser, Phys. Rev. B **46**, 463 (1992). * [30] S.
D. Obertelli, J. R. Cooper, and J. L. Tallon, Phys. Rev. B **46**, 14928
(1992). * [31] C. Bernhard and J. L. Tallon, Phys. Rev. B **54**, 10201
(1996). * [32] H. J. Trodahl, Phys. Rev. B **51**, 6175 (1995). * [33]
R. Carter and P. A. Schroeder, J. Phys. Chem. Solids **31**, 2374
(1970). * [34] F. J. Blatt, P. A. Schroeder, C. Foiles, and D. Greig,
_Thermoelectric Power in Metals_ (Plenum, New York, 1976). * [35] R. D.
Barnard, _Thermoelectricity in Metals and Alloys_ (Taylor & Francis,
London, 1972). * [36] For a review, see K. Asayama, Y. Kitaoka, G. Q.
Zheng, and K. Ishida, Prog. Nucl. Magn. Reson. Spectrosc. **28**, 221
(1996). * [37] A. P. Reyes, X. P. Tang, H. N. Bachman, W. P. Halperin,
J. A. Martindale, and P. C. Hammel, Phys. Rev. B **55**, 14737 (1997). *
[38] G. Q. Zheng, W. G. Clark, Y. Kitaoka, K. Asayama, Y. Kodama, P.
Kuhns, and W. G. Moulton, Phys. Rev. B **60**, 9947 (1999). * [39] M.
Mehring, Appl. Magn. Reson. **3**, 383 (1992). * [40] G. V. M. Williams,
J. L. Tallon, E. M. Haines, R. Michalak, and R. Dupree, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**78**, 721 (1997). * [41] S. Ohsugi, Y. Kitaoka, K. Ishida, G. Zheng,
and K. Asayama, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **63**, 700 (1994). * [42] T. Moriya,
J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **18**, 516 (1963). * [43] M. Bankay, M. Mali, J.
Roos, and D. Brinkmann, Phys. Rev. B **50**, 6416 (1994). * [44] G. V.
M. Williams, J. L. Tallon, and J. W. Loram, Phys. Rev. B **58**, 15053
(1998). * [45] N. J. Curro, C. Milling, J. Haase, and C. P. Slichter,
Phys. Rev. B **62**, 3473 (2000).
