Superconductivity suppression of Ba_(0.5)K_(0.5)Fe_(2 − 2x)M_(2x)As₂
single crystals by substitution of transition metal (M = Mn, Ru, Co, Ni,
Cu, and Zn)

J. Li

1 Superconducting Properties Unit, National Institute for Materials
Science, 1-1 Namiki, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 305-0044, Japan

Y. F. Guo

Superconducting Properties Unit, National Institute for Materials
Science, 1-1 Namiki, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 305-0044, Japan

S. B. Zhang

Superconducting Properties Unit, National Institute for Materials
Science, 1-1 Namiki, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 305-0044, Japan

J. Yuan

Superconducting Properties Unit, National Institute for Materials
Science, 1-1 Namiki, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 305-0044, Japan

Y. Tsujimoto

International Center for Materials Nanoarchitectonics (MANA), National
Institute for Materials Science, 1-1 Namiki, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 305-0044,
Japan

X. Wang

Superconducting Properties Unit, National Institute for Materials
Science, 1-1 Namiki, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 305-0044, Japan

C. I. Sathish

Superconducting Properties Unit, National Institute for Materials
Science, 1-1 Namiki, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 305-0044, Japan

Y. Sun

Superconducting Properties Unit, National Institute for Materials
Science, 1-1 Namiki, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 305-0044, Japan

S. Yu

Superconducting Properties Unit, National Institute for Materials
Science, 1-1 Namiki, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 305-0044, Japan

K. Yamaura

1 Superconducting Properties Unit, National Institute for Materials
Science, 1-1 Namiki, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 305-0044, Japan Department of
Chemistry, Graduate School of Science, Hokkaido University, Sapporo,
Hokkaido 060-0810, Japan

E. Takayama-Muromachiu

International Center for Materials Nanoarchitectonics (MANA), National
Institute for Materials Science, 1-1 Namiki, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 305-0044,
Japan JST, Transformative Research-Project on Iron Pnictides (TRIP), 1-1
Namiki, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 305-0044, Japan

Y. Shirako

Department of Chemistry, Gakushuin University, 1-5-1 Mejiro, Toshima-ku,
Tokyo 171-8588, Japan

M. Akaogi

Department of Physics, Nagoya University, Furo-cho, Nagoya 464-8602,
Japan

H. Kontani

Department of Physics, Nagoya University, Furo-cho, Nagoya 464-8602,
Japan

8 February 2012; revised manuscript received 29 April 2012; published 11
June 2012

###### Abstract

We investigated the doping effects of magnetic and nonmagnetic
impurities in single-crystalline _p_-type
Ba_(0.5)K_(0.5)Fe_(2 − 2x)M_(2x)As₂ (M = Mn, Ru, Co, Ni, Cu, and Zn)
superconductors. The superconductivity is maintained robustly with the
impurity Ru, and weakly with the impurities Mn, Co, Ni, Cu, and Zn.
However, the present T_(c) suppression rate of both magnetic and
nonmagnetic impurities remains much lower than what was expected for the
≈k₊-wave model. The temperature dependence of resistivity data shows an
obvious low-T upturn for the crystals doped with high levels of
impurity, which is due to the occurrence of localization. Thus, the
relatively weak T_(c) suppression effect from Mn, Co, Ni, Cu, and Zn is
considered to be a result of localization rather than the pair-breaking
effect in the s_(±)-wave model.

pacs: 10.1103/PhysRevB.85.214509 + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL REVIEW
B 85, 214509 214509

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.85.214509

## I Introduction

The existence of the Fe-based superconductor family aroused unexpected
rapidly development,[1, 2, 3] not only because it is a second class of
high-T_(c) superconductors after the cuprate superconductors, but also
because it offers promise to understand the superconductivity (SC)
mechanism of high-T_(c) superconductors by comparing the two families.
Currently, it is probably the most crucial issue to confirm the
pair-symmetry of the newly discovered superconductors, for which
theoretical scientists proposed several possible models just after their
discovery, among which the multigapped s-wave model is generally
accepted, including the s_(±)⁴ ⁻ ⁶ and s₊₊ waves.[7, 8, 9] Both states
represent the same Fermi hole pockets, while they have opposite signs
for the electron pockets; namely, the s_(±) wave is identified as a
sign-reversal s-wave model, while there is a no sign reversal for the
s₊₊ state. Recently, results from various experiments failed to reach
consensus for identifying which state represents the real nature of this
superconductor.[10, 11, 12] Meanwhile, the d-wave model with opposite
signs for the nearest-neighbor electron pockets still competes with
other models, once there are nodes on the hole pockets or even on both
the electron and hole pockets.[6, 13, 14] More recent results suggested
that different systems in the iron-pnictide family may represent
different pair-symmetry types, even that the pair symmetry can be quite
different from material to material.[12] The varieties of the possible
scenarios have inspired further investigations, among which the use of
impurity substitution is one of the most promising ways to address the
issue and even to uncover competing orders, because the pair-breaking
mechanism from both magnetic and nonmagnetic impurities should be
different for these models.

The iron-pnictide superconductors commonly contains Fe₂X₂ (X = As, P, or
Se) planes, which are well known as the superconducting layers. The
substitution of point defect impurities for Fe is introduced to
understand the physical properties, simliar to what was comprehensively
studied in cuprates. According to Anderson’s theorem, the nonmagnetic
impurity (NMI) cannot break pairing in an isotropic SC gap, but can for
an anisotropic gap,[15] while the pair-breaking effect of the magnetic
impurities is independent of gap type. Thus, the nonmagnetic point
defects are of great importance. Zn²⁺ with a tightly closed d shell is
preferred as an ideal NMI.[16] Typically, Zn substitution for Cu was
carried out over the last two decades on the cuprate superconductors
such as YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ),[16, 17, 18] (La,Sr)₂CuO₄,[19, 20, 21] and
Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O₈.[22, 23, 24, 25] A few at.

Previous Zn studies for the Fe-based superconductors seem to be
contradicted: Cheng _et al_. reported that the doped Zn hardly affects
SC of the _p_-type Ba_(0.5)K_(0.5)Fe₂As₂,[25] as Li _et al_. did with
LaFeAsO_(0.85)P_(0.15).[26] However, we found that the SC was completely
suppressed by at most 3 at.

In this study, we studied the impurity effect on the _p_-type
(Ba,K)Fe₂As₂ superconductors using a high-pressure and high-temperature
method, for which magnetic and nonmagnetic elements around Fe were
selected as the dopant, including 3d metals Mn, Co, Ni, Cu, and Zn, and
Ru from 4d. The specific heat, magnetic, and transport properties
indicate that the SC is maintained robustly with the impurity Ru, and
weakly with the impurities Mn, Co, Ni, Cu, and Zn.

## II Experiment

Single-crystalline samples of Ba_(0.5)K_(0.5)Fe₂As₂ (BK) and
Ba_(0.5)K_(0.5)Fe_(2 − 2.2)_M₂_As₂ (_M_ = Mn, x = 0.02 and 0.05; M = Ru,
Co, Ni, Cu, and Zn, nominal x = 0.05, 0.10, and 0.15) were prepared in a
high-pressure apparatus as reported elsewhere.[30] Here the starting
materials are BaAs (lab made), KAs (lab made), FeAs (lab made), Fe
(3_N_), Mn (> 99.9

The cleaved single crystals were also studied by the x-ray diffraction
(XRD) method in a Rigaku Ultima-IV diffractometer using Cu _K_a_
radiation. The single crystals were also ground and studied by a powder
XRD method, and the results indicated that the tetragonal ThCr₂Si₂-type
structure (_14/mmm_) is formed over the compositions without a second
phase.[2, 31]

In the dc magnetic susceptibility (_kh_) measurement, since the size of
an individual crystal is too small to obtain accurate measurements, we
loosely gathered small crystals (∼30 mg in total) into a sample holder,
and measured them in a Magnetic Properties Measurement System by Quantum
Design. The sample was cooled down to 2 K without applying a magnetic
field (zero-field-cooling, ZFC), followed by warming to 45 K in a field
of 10 Oe and then cooled down again to 2 K (field-cooling, FC).

The cleaved single crystals were used for the in-plane dc electrical
resistivity (ρ_(ab)) measurement. To minimize the structure defects of
the single crystals, we cleaved the crystals to ∼1-10 μm in thickness
and cut them into quadrate shaped slices  ∼ 100 × 50μm². Then four
terminals were created on the cleaved _ab_ plane with platinum wires
attached using silver paste. The ρ_(ab) was measured between 2 and 300 K
in a Physical Properties Measurement System model 9 T (PPMS-9T) by
Quantum Design. For such cleaved single crystals, the Hall coefficient
(_R_(H)_) was also measured in the PPMS, where the electric current was
along the _ab_ plane and H was applied parallel to the c axis. For each
sample of 12-14 mg of crystals, we measured the specific heat (_C_(p)_)
in the PPMS-9T from 2 to 300 K by a heat-pulse relaxation method.

## III Results and Discussion

### X-ray diffraction

The XRD patterns for the cleavage plane of the separated crystals of
Ba_(0.5)K_(0.5)Fe_(1.9)_M_(0.1)_As₂ (_M_ = Fe, Mn, Ru, Co, Ni, Cu, and
Zn, which are abbreviated as BK, BK-Mn, BK-Ru, BK-Co, BK-Ni, BK-Cu and
BK-Zn, respectively) are shown in Fig. 1(a). The obvious orientation
toward [0 0 2_n_] (_n_ is an integer) indicates that the cleavage plane
is the _ab_ plane of the ThCr₂Si₂-type structure. Note that the main
peak (0 0 8) for every impurity-doped crystal indicates an obvious shift
in 2_th_ as shown in Fig. 1(b), suggesting that the impurities were
indeed doped into the crystal lattice. The lattice parameters obtained
by assuming the same structure for the powder XRD data are summarized in
Table 1, where it can be seen that the impurity doping results in a
change of both lattice parameters a and c. The unsystematic change in
peak shift and lattice parameters seems unlikely to be due to the basic
change in the size of doping ions. However, the difference between Fe-As
and _M_-As bond size was considered a crucial factor, as discussed in
Ref. [15]. In addition, a magnetic effect is possibly included in the
_c_-axis expansion,[32] especially for the nonmagnetic Zn ions, which
results in nearly isotropic expansion for both a

  --------- ---------- ---------- ----------- ----------- -------------------------------
  Samples    _M_(_x_)    a (Å)       c (Å)     T_(v) (K)   ΔC_(p)/_T__ov_ (mJ mol−1 K−2)
  BK                    4.014(2)   13.298(2)     37.78                 44.50
  BK-Mn      0.039(2)   3.984(1)   13.196(3)     9.53     
  BK-Ru      0.032(6)   4.051(1)   13.419(4)     37.14                 73.49
  BK-Co      0.052(2)   4.038(1)   13.383(4)     30.31                 39.26
  BK-Ni      0.039(4)   3.990(1)   13.229(1)     26.75    
  BK-Cu      0.044(1)   3.970(1)   13.050(5)     22.29    
  BK-Zn      0.040(2)   4.102(2)   13.322(3)     30.15                 21.66
  --------- ---------- ---------- ----------- ----------- -------------------------------

Table 1: The columns give the parameters (from left to right) of
Ba_(0.5)K_(0.5)Fe_(2 − 2.2)_M_(2.2)_As₂ (_M_ = Fe, Mn, Ru, Co, Ni, Cu,
and Zn, nominal x = 0.05): real atomic concentration _M_(_x_) from the
EPMA measurement, lattice parameters a and c from powder XRD, T_(v) from
resistivity data, and Δ_C_(p)/_T__ov_. The samples of
Ba_(0.5)K_(0.5)Fe_(2 − 2.2)_M_(2.2)_As₂ (_M_ = Fe, Mn, Ru, Co, Ni, Cu,
and Zn) are abbreviated to BK, BK-Mn, BK-Ru, BK-Co, BK-Ni, BK-Cu, and
BK-Zn, respectively.

and c. Comparably, Zn-doped BaFe_(1.91 − x)Zn_(x)Co_(0.11)As₂[30] and
YBa₂Cu_(5 − 3x)Zn_(3x)O_(7 − δ)[33] also result in an isotropic
expansion of the lattice.

### Magnetic measurement

Figure 2 shows the T dependence of Ba_(0.5)K_(0.5)Fe₂As₂ and
Ba_(0.5)K_(0.5)Fe_(2 − x)M_(2x)As₂ (M = Mn, Ru, Co, Ni, Cu, and Zn),
where the impurity concentration of x is obtained from the EPMA
measurements. The host crystal BK shows the maximum T_(c) of 38 K as
reported elsewhere.[2] Obviously, the SC of Ba_(0.5)K_(0.5)Fe₂As₂ is
maintained strongly with the Ru impurity, which is accordance with the
previous studies of the Ru substitution effect in
LaFeAsO_(1 − x)F_(x)[34] and NdFeAsO_(0.89)F_(0.11) superconductors.[35]
The magnetic impurity of Mn indicates the sharpest T_(c) suppression
among all impurities. It is surprising that the T_(c)-reduction effects
from the 3d transition metals (Co, Ni, Cu, and Zn) are similar to each
other, regardless of magnetic or nonmagnetic impurities.

### Transport property

Transport properties provide direct information for the influence of
impurities or defects on various SC properties, including the carrier
properties, coupling between charges, spin degrees of freedom, and more
importantly the pair-breaking symmetry.[16, 17] To obtain reliable
transport data, high-quality single crystals are essential with
substitution of impurities. Figure 3 shows the temperature dependence of
ab-plane resistivity (ρ) for Ba_(0.5)K_(0.5)Fe_(2 − 2x)M_(2x)As₂ (M =
Fe, Mn, Ru, Co, Ni, Cu, and Zn). The T_(c) was defined from the peak
value for the plots of dρ/dT vs T. It is clearly observed that T_(c)
goes down with substitution of Mn, Co, Ni, Cu, and Zn, while it is
weakly suppressed by Ru, in good accordance with

Figure 2: (Color online) χ vs T for Ba_(0.5)K_(0.5)Fe_(2 − 2x)M_(2x)As₂
(M = Mn, Ru, Co, Ni, Cu, and Zn) at H = 10 Oe.

Figure 1: (Color online) XRD pattern of single crystals of
Ba_(0.5)K_(0.5)Fe_(2 − 2x)M_(2x)As₂ (M = Mn, Ru, Co, Ni, Cu, and Zn;
real x values are shown in Table 1).

the magnetic results. Note that for Ba_(0.5)K_(0.5)Fe_(2 − 2x)Mn_(2x)As₂
(x = 0, 0.013, and 0.039) the ρ-T curves are almost parallel to each
other in the high-T region above T_(c). Such behavior establishes that
the hole content is modified by the defects rather than the electron
irradiation. At low T on the other hand, an upturn in the ρ-T curve is
observed with substitution of defect content (x < 0.05). This phenomenon
has been often interpreted as the occurrence of localization. In case of
Ru-doped crystals, the ρ-T curves show almost parallel upturn with
substitution of Ru in both high- and low-T regions, suggesting the
absence of localization. The ρ-T curves for the Co-, Ni-, Cu-, and
Zn-doped crystals show no parallel shift from that of the impurity-free
crystal. However, the low-T upturns of the resistivity appear for the
impurity-doped crystals due to localization, regardless of magnetic or
nonmagnetic impurities. Typically, the high-level Zn-doped crystals
Ba_(0.5)K_(0.5)Fe_(2 − 2x)Zn_(2x)As₂ (x = 0.139) show a dramatic low-T
upturn from localization. A similar phenomenon was observed in the
Zn-substituted A(Fe,Zn,Co)₂As₂ superconductors.[30; 36]

As the resistance of the superconductor shows a metallic behavior, it
decreases linearly with temperature in high-temperature regions.
Therefore, we define the residual resistivity ρ₀ by the extrapolation of
T vs linear resistivity to 0 K for the linear T dependence in the high-T
region. The residual resistivity ρ₀ gradually increased with increasing
doping level, except for Ru, and the rates of ρ₀ increase with x are
∼98.2, 22.3, 42.8, 46.2, and 35.1 μΩ cm/

Figure 4: (Color online) ΔT_(c) as a function of residual resistivity
(ρ₀) for the superconductors Ba_(0.5)K_(0.5)Fe_(2 − 2x)M_(2x)As₂ (M= Mn,
Ru, Co, Ni, Cu, and Zn).

doping of 1

Figure 5 shows the T dependence of the Hall coefficient (R_(H)) and
carrier density (n) for the BK, BK-Mn, BK-Ru, BK-Co, BK-Ni, BK-Cu, and
BK-Zn single crystals. The data for the impurity-free crystal are from
Refs. [25] and [37]. With substitution of 5 at.

### Specific heat data

The temperature-dependent specific heats (C_(p)) in zero-field for BK,
BK-Mn, BK-Ru, BK-Co, BK-Ni, BK-Cu, and BK-Zn are given in Fig. 6, where
the inset of each figure demonstrates the derivation of C_(p) to T. An
obvious heat capacity anomaly, indicated by arrows, is associated with
the SC transition temperature for BK, BK-Ru, BK-Co, BK-Ni, and BK-Zn.
However, there is almost no anomaly at T_(c) for BK-Mn and BK-Cu. It is
possible that disorder regarding the impurity distribution causes
inhomogeneous SC states, greatly broadening the expected peak, and the
broad anomaly is masked by the lattice contributions [39, 40]. In
addition, it was found that the character of the anomaly is strongly
doping dependent [41]. However, the reason for the absence of the

Figure 6: (Color online) Specific heat dependence of the temperature for
Ba_(0.5)K_(0.5)Fe_(2 − 2.2)M_(2.4) As₂ (M= Mn, Ru, Co, Ni, Cu, and Zn),
where the inset of each figure demonstrates the derivation of C_(p) to
T, and the arrows indicate the heat capacity anomaly.

Figure 5: (Color online) (a) Hall coefficient (R_(H)) vs T and (b)
carrier density (n) vs T for single-crystalline
Ba_(0.5)K_(0.5)Fe_(2 − 2.2)M_(2.4)As₂ (M= Fe, Mn, Ru, Co, Ni, Cu, and
Zn; real x values are shown in Table 1).

anomaly in Mn-, Ni-, and Cu-substituted samples needs further
investigation. Figure 7 shows the C_(p)-T curves in fields of 0 and 7 T
at around T_(c), from which we estimate the specific heat jump
(ΔC_(p)/T_(cp)) for these transitions at zero-field, as shown in Table
1, where T_(cp) is the T_(c) estimated from resistivity data. It is
observed that the impurity substitutions yield a weak change in the
superconducting phase as judged from the size of the specific heat jump,
although the Co and Zn substitutions weakly reduced ΔC_(p)/T_(cp), and
the Ru doping enhanced ΔC_(p)/T_(cp) (73.49 mJ mol⁻¹K⁻²) to about two
times that of the impurity-free sample (44.50 mJ mol⁻¹K⁻²). On the other
hand, the applied magnetic field of 7 T is not large enough to suppress
the anomaly (see Fig. 7) due to the high upper critical fields (>55 T).
Since both the superconducting temperature and the upper critical fields
in these superconductors are relatively high, we can hardly make a
reliable estimate of the normal-state electronic specific heat.

## IV Discussion

We have described the influence of impurities on the magnetic,
transport, and specific heat properties in the Ba_(0.5)K_(0.5)Fe₂As₂
superconductor. On basis of these results, we focus on the discussion of
pair-breaking effects in terms of both s_(±)- and s₊₊-wave states.

Based on density functional calculations it was found that the impurity
effects in iron-based superconductors can be classified into three
groups according to the derived parameters: (i) Mn (0.3 eV), Co (−0.3
eV), and Ni (−0.8 eV); (ii) Ru (0.1 eV); and (iii) Zn (−8 eV).[42] Among
these impurities the nonmagnetic Zn works as a unitary scattering
potential that is comparable to the bandwidth, with the result of a
quite strong potential. Consequently, it is expected to have a strictly
pair-breaking effect on the anisotropic SC gaps. According to Ref. [7]
the reduction in T_(c) due to a strong impurity potential in the
s_(±)-wave state is ∼50₂ K/

Figure 8: (Color online) T_(c) vs x for the superconductors
Ba_(0.5)K_(0.5)Fe_(2 − 2.7)M_(2x)As₂ (M = Mn, Ru, Co, Ni, Cu, and Zn).

Figure 7: (Color online) Specific heat dependence of the temperature for
Ba_(0.5)K_(0.5)Fe_(2 − 2.7)M_(2x)As₂ (M = Mn, Ru, Co, Ni, Cu, and Zn)
with and without magnetic field of 7 T.

the suppression rate of Zn as 2.22 K/

On the basis of previous pair-breaking analysis in the
BaFe_(1.89 − 2x)Zn_(2x)Co_(0.11)As₂ superconductors,[30] we calculated
the pair-breaking rate $\alpha=\pm\beta\gamma/2\pi k_{\rm B}T_{c0}$ for
Ba_(0.5)K_(0.5)Fe_(2 − 2x)Zn_(2x)As₂ (M= Mn, Ru, Co, Ni, Cu, and Zn),
where T_(c0) is the T_(c) of the impurity-free compound, and γ is the
electron scattering rate. Previous theoretical study proposed a relation
between γ and Δρ₀ as Δρ₀ (μΩ cm) = 0.18γ (K) in terms of a five-orbital
model for 122 systems; here Δρ₀ is the difference of the residual
resistivity between the impurity-doped and impurity-free crystals. For
the s_(±)-wave state, the SC should vanish in the range
α > α_(c)^(±) = 0.22.[7] For the present experiment, we estimated
α = 0.88zΔρ₀/T_(c0) by using z = 0.50 as shown in Fig. 9. The
T_(c)/T_(c0) vs α data change is roughly linear; therefore we applied a
linear function to the data and estimated the critical pair-breaking
parameters as 6.52, 5.23, 4.24, 5.41, and 6.05 for impurities of Mn, Co,
Ni, Cu, and Zn, respectively. A comparable result was obtained for the
pair-breaking effect of Zn in the BaFe_(1.89 − 2x)Zn_(2x)Co_(0.11)As₂
superconductors as α = 11.49 with z = 0.5. Recent data for
proton-irradiated Ba(Fe,Co)₂As₂ show results similar to those of our
chemical doping.[46] Obviously, the pair-breaking parameters
experimentally estimated for the present compound are far above the
limit α_(c)^(±) = 0.22 for the s_(±)-wave model, suggesting the
realization of the s₊₊-wave state rather than the s_(±)-wave model in
the 122-type Fe-based superconductor.

## V Conclusions

To summarize, we have studied the superconductivity suppression effect
on Ba_(0.5)K_(0.5)Fe_(2 − 2x)M_(2x)As₂ single crystals by substitution
of transition metals (M= Mn, Ru, Co, Ni, Cu, and Zn). The
superconductivity of the p-type iron-based superconductor is maintained
robustly with the impurity Ru, and weakly with the impurities Mn, Co,
Ni, Cu, and Zn, whose T_(c) suppression rates are 6.98, 1.73, 2.21,
2.68, and 2.22 K/

###### Acknowledgements.

We thank M. Miyakawa for the high-pressure experiment and Dr. K. Kosuda
for the EPMA experiment, and also thank D. Johrendt, H. B. Wang, B. Y.
Zhu, M. Sato, and P. J. Pereira for valuable discussions. This research
was supported in part by the World Premier International Research Center
from MEXT, Grants-in-Aid for Scientific Research (22246083) from JSPS,
and the Funding Program for World-Leading Innovative R&D on Science and
Technology (FIRST Program) from JSPS.

## References

* [1] L.J.Jun@nims.go.jp * [2] Y. Kamihara, T. Watanabe, M. Hirano, and
H. Hosono, J. Am. Chem. Soc. **130**, 3296 (2008). * [3] M. Rotter, M.
Tegel, and D. Johrendt, Phys. Rev. Lett. **101**, 107006 (2008). * [4]
Z. A. Ren, W. Lu, J. Yang, W. Yi, X. L. Shen, C. Zheng, G. C. Che, X. L.
Dong, L. L. Sun, F. Zhou, and Z. X. Zhao, Chin. Phys. Lett. **25**, 2215
(2008). * [5] I. I. Mazin, D. J. Singh, M. D. Johannes, and M. H. Du,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **101**, 057003 (2008). * [6] I. I. Mazin, Nature
**464**, 183 (2010). * [7] K. Kuroki, S. Onari, R. Arita, H. Usui, Y.
Tanaka, H. Kontani, and H. Aoki, Phys. Rev. Lett. **101**, 087004
(2008). * [8] S. Onari and H. Kontani, Phys. Rev. Lett. **103**, 177001
(2009). * [9] S. Onari, H. Kontani, and M. Sato, Phys. Rev. B **81**,
060504(R) (2010).

Figure 9: (Color online) T_(c)/T_(c0) vs α with various calculations for
Ba_(0.5)K_(0.5)Fe_(2 − 2x)M_(2x)As₂ (M= Mn, Co, Ni, Cu, and Zn). The
T_(c) of each impurity-doped sample is normalized with T_(c0) of the
impurity-free compound. The pair-breaking rate α is estimated as
α = 0.88zΔρ₀/T_(c0), where Δρ₀ is the difference of the residual
resistivity from that of impurity-free crystals, and z is the
renormalization factor, for which we use z = 0.5 from the ARPES result
for 122 superconductors.[43, 44]

* [9] T. Saito, S. Onari, and H. Kontani, Phys. Rev. B **82**, 144510
(2010). * [10] M. Sato, Y. Kobayashi, S. C. Lee, H. Takahashi, E.
Satomi, and Y. Miura, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **79**, 014710 (2010). * [11]
D. V. Efremov, M. M. Korshunov, O. V. Dolgov, A. A. Golubov, and P. J.
Hirschfeld, Phys. Rev. B **84**, 180512(R) (2011). * [12] P. J.
Hirschfeld, M. M. Korshunov, and I. I. Mazin, Rep. Prog. Phys. **74**,
124508 (2011). * [13] W. Q. Chen, K.-Y. Yang, Y. Zhou, and F.-C. Zhang,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **102**, 047006 (2009). * [14] S. Maiti, M. M.
Korshunov, T. A. Maier, P. J. Hirschfeld, and A. V. Chubukov, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **107**, 147002 (2011). * [15] P. W. Anderson, J. Phys. Chem.
Solids **11**, 26 (1959). * [16] H. Alloul, J. Bobroff, M. Gabay, and P.
J. Hirschfeld, Rev. Mod. Phys. **81**, 45 (2009). * [17] G. V. M.
Williams, J. L. Tallon, and R. Dupree, Phys. Rev. B **61**, 4319
(2000). * [18] C. Bernhard, Ch. Niedermayer, T. Blasius, G. V. M.
Williams, R. De Renzi, C. Bucci, and J. L. Tallon, Phys. Rev. B **58**,
8937 (1998). * [19] M.-H. Julien, T. Feher, M. Horvatic, C. Berthier, O.
N. Bakharev, P. Segransan, G. Collin, and J.-F. Marucco, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **84**, 3422 (2000). * [20] J. M. Tarascon, E. Wang, S. Kivelson,
B. G. Bagley, G. W. Hull, and R. Ramesh, Phys. Rev. B **42**, 218
(1990). * [21] N. P. Armitage, P. Foumier, and R. L. Greene, Rev. Mod.
Phys. **82**, 2421 (2010). * [22] J. L. Tallon, Phys. Rev. B **58**,
5956 (1998). * [23] B. vom Hedt, W. Lisseck, K. Westerholt, and H. Bach,
Phys. Rev. B **49**, 9898 (1994). * [24] Y. K. Kuo, C. W. Schneider, M.
J. Skove, M. V. Nevitt, G. X. Tessema, and J. J. McGee, Phys. Rev. B
**56**, 6201 (1997). * [25] P. Cheng, B. Shen, J. P. Hu, and H. H. Wen,
Phys. Rev. B **81**, 174529 (2010). * [26] Y. Li, J. Tong, Q. Tao, C.
Feng, G. Cao, Z. Xu, W. Chen, and F. Zhang, New J. Phys. **12**, 083008
(2010). * [27] Y. F. Guo, Y. G. Shi, S. Yu, A. A. Belik, Y. Matsushita,
M. Tanaka, Y. Katsuya, K. Kobayashi, I. Nowik, I. Felner, V. P. S.
Awana, K. Yamaura, and E. Takayama-Muromachi, Phys. Rev. B **82**,
054506 (2010). * [28] D. Tan, C. Zhang, C. Xi, L. Ling, L. Zhang, W.
Tong, Y. Yu, G. Feng, H. Yu, L. Pi, Z. Yang, S. Tan, and Y. Zhang, Phys.
Rev. B **84**, 014502 (2011). * [29] J. J. Li, Y. F. Guo, S. B. Zhang,
S. Yu, Y. Tsujimoto, K. Yamaura, and E. Takayama-Muromachi, Physica C
**471**, 213 (2011). * [30] J. Li, Y. Guo, S. Zhang, S. Yu, Y.
Tsujimoto, H. Kontani, K. Yamaura, and E. Takayama-Muromachi, Phys. Rev.
B **84**, 020513(R) (2011). * [31] F. Han, X. Zhu, P. Cheng, G. Mu, Y.
Jia, L. Fang, Y. Wang, H. Luo, B. Zeng, B. Shen, L. Shan, C. Ren, and
H.-H. Wen, Phys. Rev. B **80**, 024506 (2009). * [32] L. J. Zhang and D.
J. Singh, Phys. Rev. B **80**, 214530 (2009). * [33] J. M. Tarascon, P.
Barbour, P. F. Miceli, L. H. Greene, G. W. Hull, M. Eibschutz, and S. A.
Sunshine, Phys. Rev. B **37**, 7458 (1988). * [34] E. Satomi, S. C. Lee,
Y. Kobayashi, and M. Sato, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **79**, 094702 (2010). *
[35] S. C. Lee, E. Satomi, Y. Kobayashi, and M. Sato, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn.
**79**, 023702 (2010). * [36] J. Li, Y. Guo, S. Zhang, Y. Tsujimoto, X.
Wang, C. I. Sathish, S. Yu, K. Yamaura, and E. Takayama-Muromachi, Solid
State Commun. **152**, 671 (2012). * [37] H. Kontani and M. Ohno, Phys.
Rev. B **74**, 014406 (2006). * [38] H. Q. Yuan, J. Singleton, F. F.
Balakirev, S. A. Baily, G. F. Chen, J. L. Luo, and N. L. Wang, Nature
(London) **457**, 565 (2009). * [39] S. Nandi, M. G. Kim, A. Kreyssig,
R. M. Fernandes, D. K. Pratt, A. Thaler, N. Ni, S. L. Bud’ko, P. C.
Canfield, J. Schmalian, R. J. McQueeney, and A. I. Goldman, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **104**, 057006 (2010). * [40] N. Ni, M. E. Tillman, J.-Q. Yan, A.
Kracher, S. T. Hannahs, S. L. Bud’ko, and P. C. Canfield, Phys. Rev. B
**78**, 214515 (2008). * [41] M. K. Yu and J. P. Franck, Phys. Rev. B
**48**, 13939 (1993). * [42] K. Nakamura, R. Arita, and H. Ikeda, Phys.
Rev. B **83**, 144512 (2011). * [43] D. V. Evtushinsky, D. S. Inosov, V.
B. Zabolotnyy, M. S. Viazovska, R. Khasanov, A. Amato, H.-H. Klauss, H.
Luetkens, Ch. Niedermayer, G. L. Sun, V. Hinkov, C. T. Lin, A.
Varykhalov, A. Koitzsch, M. Knupfer, B. Buchner, A. A. Kordyuk, and S.
V. Borisenko, New J. Phys. **11**, 055069 (2009). * [44] K. Nakayama, T.
Sato, P. Richard, Y.-M. Xu, Y. Sekiba, S. Souma, G. F. Chen, J. L. Luo,
N. L. Wang, H. Ding, and T. Takahashi, Europhys. Lett. **85**, 67002
(2009). * [45] S. C. Lee, E. Satomi, Y. Kobayashi, and M. Sato, J. Phys.
Soc. Jpn. **79**, 023702 (2010). * [46] Y. Nakajima, T. Taen, Y.
Tsuchiya, T. Tamegai, H. Kitamura, and T. Murakami, Phys. Rev. B **82**,
220504(R) (2010).
