# Anisotropic superconductivity and magnetism in single-crystal
RbEuFe₄As₄

M. P. Smylie

1 Materials Science Division, Argonne National Laboratory, 9700 S. Cass
Avenue, Argonne, Illinois 60439, USA Department of Physics, University
of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556, USA

K. Willa

Materials Science Division, Argonne National Laboratory, 9700 S. Cass
Avenue, Argonne, Illinois 60439, USA

J.-K. Bao

Materials Science Division, Argonne National Laboratory, 9700 S. Cass
Avenue, Argonne, Illinois 60439, USA

K. Ryan

Department of Physics, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign,
Urbana, Illinois 61801, USA

Z. Islam

Advanced Photon Source, Argonne National Laboratory, 9700 S. Cass
Avenue, Lemont, Illinois 60439, USA

H. Claus

Materials Science Division, Argonne National Laboratory, 9700 S. Cass
Avenue, Argonne, Illinois 60439, USA

Y. Simsek

Materials Science Division, Argonne National Laboratory, 9700 S. Cass
Avenue, Argonne, Illinois 60439, USA

Z. Diao

Laboratory of Mathematics, Physics and Electrical Engineering, Halmstad
University, SE-301 18 Halmstad, Sweden Department of Physics, Stockholm
University, SE-106 91 Stockholm, Sweden

A. Rydh

Department of Chemistry, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois
60208, USA

A. E. Koshelev

Materials Science Division, Argonne National Laboratory, 9700 S. Cass
Avenue, Argonne, Illinois 60439, USA

W.-K. Kwok

Materials Science Division, Argonne National Laboratory, 9700 S. Cass
Avenue, Argonne, Illinois 60439, USA

D. Y. Chung

Materials Science Division, Argonne National Laboratory, 9700 S. Cass
Avenue, Argonne, Illinois 60439, USA

M. G. Kanatzidis

Materials Science Division, Argonne National Laboratory, 9700 S. Cass
Avenue, Argonne, Illinois 60439, USA Department of Physics, University
of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Urbana, Illinois 61801, USA

U. Welp

Department of Physics, Stockholm University, SE-106 91 Stockholm, Sweden
Department of Chemistry, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois
60208, USA

Footnote 1: Electronic address: Department of Physics, University of
Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Urbana, Illinois 61801, USA

Received 11 May 2018; published 5 September 2018

###### Abstract

We investigate the anisotropic superconducting and magnetic properties
of single-crystal RbEuFe₄As₄ using magnetotransport and magnetization
measurements. We determine a magnetic ordering temperature of the Eu
moments of T_(m) = 15 K and a superconducting transition temperature of
T_(c) = 36.8 K. The superconducting phase diagram is characterized by
high upper critical field slopes of −70 and −42 kG/K for in-plane and
out-of-plane fields, respectively, and a surprisingly low
superconducting anisotropy of Γ = 1.7. Ginzburg-Landau parameters of
κ_(c) ∼ 67 and κ_(ab) ∼ 108 indicate extreme type-II behavior. These
superconducting properties are in line with those commonly seen in
optimally doped Fe-based superconductors. In contrast, Eu magnetism is
quasi-two dimensional (2D), as evidenced by highly anisotropic in-plane
and out-of-plane exchange constants of 0.6 K and <0.04 K. A consequence
of the quasi-2D nature of the Eu magnetism are strong magnetic
fluctuation effects, a large suppression of the magnetic ordering
temperature as compared to the Curie-Weiss temperature, and a kinklike
anomaly in the specific heat devoid of any singularity. Magnetization
curves reveal a clear magnetic easy-plane anisotropy with in-plane and
out-of-plane saturation fields of 2 and 4 kG.

pacs: DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.98.104503

## I Introduction

Europium-containing Fe-based superconducting materials have emerged as
model systems for the study of the interplay of magnetism and
superconductivity [1,2]. They are the latest members of a family of
superconductors in which superconductivity coexists with complete,
magnetically ordered sublattices of local rare-earth (R) moments such as
RRh₄B₄[3], RMo₈S₈[4,5], and the nickel borocarbides [6]. It is believed
that in these compounds the magnetic moments and the superconducting
electrons reside in different, essentially isolated sublattices,
enabling the existence of superconductivity despite the high
concentration of localized magnetic moments [6,7]. Among these, the
europium-containing Fe-based superconducting materials stand out since
they display simultaneously high magnetic ordering temperatures (15-20
K) and superconducting transition temperatures in excess of 30 K,
implying sizable magnetic exchange interactions in the presence of
strong superconducting pairing. Extensive work on EuFe₂As₂
(Eu-122)-derived compounds has shown that the nonsuperconducting parent
compound undergoes a spin-density-wave (SDW) transition of the Fe
magnetic moments near 195 K [8], and near T_(m) ∼ 19 K a transition of
the Eu moments into a type-A antiferromagnetic state in which
ferromagnetically ordered Eu sheets are coupled antiferromagnetically
along the c axis [9]. A similar magnetic structure has been found in the
low-temperature phases of the Ho, Dy, and Pr borocarbides [10]. Upon the
application of pressure [11,12] or doping with, among others, P [13,14],
K [15,16,17], and Na [18,19], the SDW transition of Eu-122 is suppressed
and superconductivity emerges at temperatures reaching up to T_(c) ∼ 30
K. At the same time, the Eu moments in the case of
EuFe₂(As_(1 − x)P_(x))₂ rotate from the ab plane close to the c axis
[20]; however, T_(c) stays largely unaltered inside the superconducting
dome. This apparent decoupling of the magnetic Eu sublattice from the
superconducting electrons has been attributed to the multiorbital nature
of the Fe-based superconductors in which magnetic exchange interactions
and superconductivity are mediated by different groups of electrons and
to the high upper critical fields that can withstand internal exchange
and dipolar fields [2,21]. In addition, due to the crystal structure of
EuFe₂As₂-based materials (see Fig. 1), partial cancellation of exchange
and dipolar fields may arise at the location of the Fe atoms.

In this regard, the recent discovery of superconductivity in RbEuFe₄As₄
and CsEuFe₄As₄[22,23,24,25] is significant, since in these materials the
asymmetric environment of the Fe₂As₂ layers (see Fig. 1) precludes any
cancellation effects. Nevertheless, T_(c) reaches 37 K, among the
highest values of all 122-type materials, and exceeds the values of the
nonmagnetic sister compounds CaKFe₄As₄ (T_(c) = 35 K) [26] and
(La,Na)(Cs,Rb)Fe₄As₄ (T_(c) ∼ 25 K) [27]. This is in contrast to the
behavior of nickel borocarbides for which the incorporation of magnetic
rare-earth ions leads to a clear suppression of T_(c) as compared to a
nonmagnetic rare-earth ion [6]. RbEuFe₄As₄ and CsEuFe₄As₄ are
intrinsically doped to 0.25 holes/Fe atom such that in the
stoichiometric material an electronic structure arises that closely
corresponds to optimal doping in 122 materials. Furthermore, a recent
study [28] revealed that upon Ni substitution on the Fe site, T_(c) is
suppressed to zero and the SDW reemerges, while at the same time T_(m)
is unchanged; similarly, Ca substitution on the Eu site [29] suppresses
T_(m) without changing T_(c), demonstrating the almost complete
decoupling of the Eu sublattice from superconductivity.

Here we present a study of the anisotropic superconducting and magnetic
properties of single-crystal RbEuFe₄As₄. Using magnetotransport and
magnetization measurements, we determine a magnetic ordering temperature
of the Eu moments of T_(m) = 15 K and a superconducting transition
temperature of T_(c) = 36.8 K. The superconducting phase diagram is
characterized by high upper critical field slopes of
d H_(c2)^(ab)/d T = −70 kGe/K, dH_(c2)^(c)/dT = −42kGe/K, and a
surprisingly low superconducting anisotropy of Γ = 1.7. Ginzburg-Landau
(GL) parameters of κ_(c) ∼ 67 and κ_(ab) ∼ 108 indicate extreme type-II
behavior. These superconducting properties are in line with those
commonly seen in optimally doped Fe-based superconductors. In contrast,
Eu magnetism is highly anisotropic quasi-two dimensional (2D), as
evidenced by anisotropic in-plane and out-of-plane exchange constants of
0.6 and <0.04 K, respectively. Consequences of the quasi-2D nature of
the Eu magnetism are strong magnetic fluctuation effects, a negative
magnetoresistance in high fields and at temperatures well above T_(c), a
large suppression of the magnetic ordering temperature as compared to
the Curie-Weiss temperature, and a kinklike anomaly in the specific
heat. Magnetization curves reveal a clear magnetic easy-plane anisotropy
with in-plane and out-of-plane saturation fields of 2 and 4 kOe,
respectively.

## II Experimental Methods

High-quality single crystals of RbEuFe₄As₄ were grown using RbAs flux
[30], yielding thin flat plates with sizes of up to 0.8 × 0.8 mm × 60 μm
with the tetragonal c axis (001) perpendicular to the plate and the
tetragonal (110) and (1$\bar{1}$0) orientations parallel to the edges.
For magnetotransport measurements, thin bars were cut from plates and
gold wires were then attached with silver epoxy onto bar-shaped samples
in a standard four-point configuration. For c-axis current measurements,
sets of two contacts were placed on the top and bottom faces of the
single crystal, roughly equally spaced. Magnetotransport measurements
were performed in a 90-10-10 kG three-axis superconducting vector
magnet, avoiding the need for mechanically rotating or reomounting the
samples, and magnetization measurements were performed on both zero
field-cooling (ZFC) and field-cooling (FC) in a Quantum Design MPMS-7
system with samples attached to a quartz rod or quartz fiber. The
specific heat of RbEuFe₄As₄ single crystals was measured using a
membrane-based ac nanocalorimeter [31, 32].

X-ray diffraction (XRD) and specific heat measurements revealed
single-phase material without EuFe₂As₂ inclusions [30]. At room
temperature, RbEuFe₄As₄ has a simple-tetragonal crystal structure
(P4/mmm space group) with one formula unit per unit cell and lattice
constants of a = 3.882 A and c = 13.273 A (see Fig. 1). The large
difference in ionic sizes of the Eu and Rb ions induces their
segregation into sheets. The formal valence count reveals that
RbEuFe₄As₄ is intrinsically doped to 0.25 holes/Fe atom. In contrast,
the EuFe₂As₂ parent compound is at room temperature
body-centered-tetragonal (I4/mmm space group) containing two formula
units per tetragonal unit cell.

## III Results and Discussion

### Specific heat

We evaluate the phase transitions occurring in single-crystal RbEuFe₄As₄
using zero-field specific heat measurements such as shown in Fig. 2[30].
A clear kink in C/T at T_(m) ∼ 15 K signals the magnetic transition,
whereas a step in C/T at

Figure 2: Temperature dependence of C/T in zero-field specific heat of
RbEuFe₄As₄. A clearly resolved kink at T_(m) = 15 K and a step at
T_(c) = 36.8 K mark the magnetic and superconducting transitions,
respectively. The inset shows the superconducting specific heat near the
transition on enlarged scales. The lines illustrate the
entropy-conserving construction.

Figure 1: (L) Crystal structure (P4/mmm) of RbEuFe₄As₄, with 2D sheets
of Rb (green) and Eu (red) separated by Fe₂As₂ blocks. (R) Crystal
structure (I4/mmm) of the parent compound EuFe₂As₂.

T_(c) ∼ 36.8 K is the signature of the superconducting transition. Our
samples do not display an additional feature in the specific heat near 5
K that has been reported on polycrystalline samples [24,25] and was
interpreted as signature of a transformation of a
Fulde-Ferrell-Larkin-Ovchinnikov state into a spontaneous vortex state.
We observe a fairly large step size of ΔC/T_(c) = 0.21 J/mol K² at the
superconducting transition as determined from the entropy-conserving
construction (inset of Fig. 2). In single-band weak-coupling BCS theory,
this step size corresponds to a large coefficient of the normal-state
electronic specific heat of γ_(n) = ΔC/1.43T_(c) = 147 mJ/mol K².
Similar values have recently been reported for polycrystalline
RbEuFe₄As₄ samples [24], as well as for crystals of the nonmagnetic
sister compound CaKFe₄As₄[26]. In single-band weak-coupling BCS theory,
the normalized discontinuity of the slopes of the specific heat at
T_(c), (T_(c)/ΔC) * [Δ(dC/dT)]|_(T_(c)), has a universal value of 2.64.
Strong-coupling and multiband effects modify this value, as seen, for
example, in Pb, for which a slope discontinuity of 4.6 has been reported
[33] and the two-band superconductor MgB₂ for which a value of 3.35 can
be deduced [34], respectively. From the data in Fig. 2 we obtain a very
large value of (T_(c)/ΔC) * [Δ(dC/dT)]|_(T_(c)) ∼ 6.9, which is similar
to Ba_(1 − x)K_(x)Fe₂As₂[35] and indicative of strong-coupling effects.

The kinklike feature at the magnetic transition does not display
signatures commonly associated with a second-order transition, i.e., a
step such as seen at the superconducting transition, or a singularity.
This observation is in agreement with previous reports on
polycrystalline RbEuFe₄As₄[24] and CsEuFe₄As₄[25] samples, where,
following the Ehrenfest classification of phase transitions, it has been
attributed to a third-order phase transition. As discussed in more
detail below, such a shape of the specific heat anomaly can also arise
from strong magnetic fluctuations and reduced dimensionality. The
kink-shaped specific heat anomaly reported here is in contrast to the
behavior seen in EuFe₂As₂, which shows a typical singular variation in
the specific heat at the magnetic transition [8,13,36,37,38].

As shown in Fig. 1, an important difference between RbEuFe₄As₄ and
EuFe₂As₂ is that in RbEuFe₄As₄ the distance between Eu layers is twice
as large as in EuFe₂As₂, suggesting that reduced dimensionality and
strong fluctuation effects lead to the marked difference in the specific
heat signatures. In fact, due to the highly anisotropic exchange
constants and the easy-plane magnetic anisotropy described in more
detail below, the magnetism of Eu may be quasi-2D in RbEuFe₄As₄,
exhibiting 2D-XY criticality and Berezinskii-Kosterlitz-Thouless
behavior [39,40], while in EuFe₂As₂ it is more 3D-like, and more
accurately described by a 3D-XY model accompanied by a singular specific
heat as seen in experiment. Nevertheless, the measured kink in the
specific heat (Fig. 2) is too sharp as compared to the predictions of
the 2D-XY model [40]. However, Monte Carlo simulations of the 2D-to-3D
crossover in the XY model clearly reveal the reemergence of the
singularity in the specific heat with increasing 3D coupling [41],
indicating quasi-2D behavior in the data of Fig. 2. Similarly, kinklike
specific heat transitions arise in quasi-2D anisotropic Heisenberg
models that depend on the coupling strength in the third direction [42].
A detailed examination of these phenomena is currently underway.

On decreasing temperature, the C/T data display a pronounced downward
curvature. This feature, not seen on samples whose specific heat is
dominated by the electronic and phonon contributions, has been reported
for various high-spin systems [43,44]. It does not represent a phase
transition, but qualitatively, it arises from the crossover from the
quantum regime at low temperatures for which C approaches zero at zero
temperature to the classical regime in which C(T = 0) would be finite.
This crossover is particularly sharp in high-S systems, since these
follow classical behavior over most of the temperature range, and it is
absent in S = 1/2 systems, as these are purely quantum mechanical.

### Magnetic properties

We determine the magnetic state of RbEuFe₄As₄ using measurements of the
field-cooled and zero-field-cooled temperature dependence, as well as
the field dependence of the magnetization in fields applied along the ab
planes and the c axis. In contrast to EuFe₂As₂, the magnetic transition
of the Eu ions occurs deep in the superconducting state. Therefore,
magnetization data at low temperatures, especially ZFC data and data for
which H/c, contain contributions from superconducting vortices as well
as from Eu moments.

The inset of Fig. 3(a) shows the temperature dependence of the magnetic
susceptibility, χ = M/H, measured in FC and ZFC conditions in several
fields applied parallel to the in-plane (100) direction. The large
diamagnetic signal observed near 37 K in the ZFC data marks the
superconducting transition. The magnetic transition is seen as a clear
cusp near T_(m) = 15 K, most notably in the ZFC data, whereas on field
cooling, the susceptibility attains an almost temperature-independent
value at the magnetic transition. In the case of EuFe₂As₂, similar
magnetization behavior has been shown to arise from a transition into a
type-A antiferromagnetic state. We note, however, that the actual
magnetic ground state of RbEuFe₄As₄ is not known at present and that
data such as shown in Fig. 3 are not able to establish it. For instance,
EuCo₂P₂, which has the same crystal structure as Eu-122, displays
magnetic behavior similar to that in Fig. 3, although a helical
antiferromagnetic structure has been proposed for this material [45].
Furthermore, the data in Fig. 3 would also be consistent with a magnetic
structure comprising a large net in-plane ferromagnetic component, as
suggested by recent Mossbauer experiments on polycrystalline
RbEuFe₄As₄[46] and which could be expected on the basis of the doubling
of the Eu-layer spacing [25] (see further discussion below).

Also included in the inset of Fig. 3(a) are data (green open circles)
obtained following FC in 10 G after the sample was warmed on a ZFC run
in 10 G up to 20 K, showing that it is not required to pass through the
superconducting transition in order to induce the ferromagneticlike
state. We note that, in general, this FM-like state is induced on field
cooling in relatively low fields. The main panel in Fig. 3(a) displays
the temperature dependence of the susceptibility measured after field
cooling in a field of 1 kG applied along the three crystal axes. Under
FC conditions for which the effects due to vortex pinning are small, we
observe a large anisotropy in the low-temperature susceptibility with
χ_(ab) ≫ χ_(c), revealing a pronounced easy-plane anisotropy of the Eu
moments, similar to EuFe₂As₂, and in agreement with the results of
Mossbauer experiments [46]. The data also show that a possible in-plane
magnetic anisotropy is comparatively very weak.

In higher fields [Fig. 3(b)], the difference between χ_(ab) and χ_(c)
diminishes, indicating that magnetic saturation is approached. Below the
ordering temperature, χ_(c) slightly decreases with decreasing
temperature because the growing magnetic anisotropy pulls the Eu moments
towards the planes. The data above 50 K are well described by a
Curie-Weiss law χ(T) = χ₀ + C/(T − Θ_(C)), yielding for the (100), (110)
and (001) directions values of Θ_(C) of 24.18 K, 23.81 K, and 22.32 K,
respectively, and values for C of 7.476, 7.524, and 7.404 emu K/mol G,
respectively. With μ_(eff) = 2.827 * C^(1/2), we find an effective
moment of ∼7.75 μ_(B) per Eu ion. This value is close to the expected
Eu²⁺ effective moment of $\mu_{eff}=g\mu_{B}\sqrt{S(S+1)}=7.94$μ_(B)/Eu
(with g = 2 and S = 7/2), indicating that essentially all Eu ions are in
the 2⁺ state. The positive value of the Curie-Weiss temperature signals
predominantly ferromagnetic interactions between the Eu moments
consistent with a type-A antiferromagnetic structure. We observe a
sizable reduction of the magnetic ordering temperature of RbEuFe₄As₄
(T_(m) = 15 K, Θ_(C) = 23 K) as compared to Eu-122, for which a
Curie-Weiss temperature of Θ_(C) ∼ 21 K and a magnetic ordering
temperature T_(m) ∼ 19 K have been determined [47]. We attribute this
difference to the reduced dimensionality and strong magnetic
fluctuations in RbEuFe₄As₄, while in Eu-122, which has the same layered
spin arrangement albeit with half the distance of that in RbEuFe₄As₄,
magnetic fluctuations have a relatively reduced effect consistent with
the more conventional form of the specific heat anomaly as discussed
above.

The values for χ₀ are 3.4 × 10⁻³ emu/mol G for the in-plane orientations
and 3.1 × 10⁻³ emu/mol G for the c axis, representing anisotropic
contributions from temperature-independent Pauli paramagnetism or van
Vleck magnetism.

The insets of Figs. 4(a) and 4(b) show magnetization hysteresis loops
measured at 5 K in H // (001) and H // (110). The superposition of a
ferromagnetic-like signal and a hysteretic superconducting signal is
clearly seen, especially for H // (001). This is expected due to the
large sample cross section and high critical current density for this
field orientation. Assuming that the superconducting hysteresis is
symmetric around the equilibrium magnetization curve and that effects
due to the hysteresis of the Eu magnetism are small (as is indicated by
results on EuFe₂As₂[47]), we extract the magnetization curve of the Eu
sublattice as (M₊ + M⁻)/2, where M₊ (M⁻) is the magnetization measured
in increasing (decreasing) applied field. The results, shown in the main
panels of Figs. 4(a) and 4(b) for in-plane and out-of-plane field
orientations, reveal ferromagnetic magnetization curves with a
saturation magnetization of ∼320 emu/cm³ at 5 K, corresponding to 6.7
μ_(B)/Eu, slightly less than the expected full moment of 7 μ_(B)/Eu. The
comparison of magnetization curves measured along the three crystal axes
[Fig. 4(c)] reveals a clear anisotropy in the approach to saturation,
with the saturation fields of H // (110) and (100) being substantially
smaller than for H // (001), while there is no discernible in-plane
anisotropy. However, since the sample is platelike, such in-plane versus
out-of-plane anisotropy may arise simply from demagnetization effects.
The dashed lines in Fig. 4 indicate the corresponding demagnetization
fields obtained by approximating the sample as an ellipsoid,
demonstrating that the intrinsic saturation fields are indeed
anisotropic with $H_{\rm sat}^{ab}\sim 2.1$ kG and
$H_{\rm sat}^{c}\sim 4.2$ kG, consistent with easy-plane magnetic
anisotropy. Eu²⁺ has a spin-only magnetic moment, and therefore, crystal
electric field effects are not important in determining the single-ion
magnetic anisotropy. In the case of Eu-122 it has been suggested [48]
that dipolar interactions give rise to the easy-plane magnetic
anisotropy.

In a model of a type-A antiferromagnet, the in-plane magnetization
curves for which demagnetization effects are negligible allow for an
estimate of the antiferromagnetic interlayer exchange constant J^(′).
Neglecting a weak in-plane anisotropy, the magnetization curve for this
orientation is given by M/M_(s) = H/H_(af)[49], where
gμ_(B)H_(af) = 2z^(′)|J^(′)|S defines the antiferromagnetic exchange
field H_(af), and z^(′) = 2 is the number of nearest neighbors along the
c axis yielding J^(′) ∼ −0.04 K. This value may be largely overestimated
as c ≫ a (see Fig. 1), and the distance to the next-nearest neighbors

Figure 3: Inset of panel (a): Temperature dependence of the
susceptibility measured on FC (solid squares) and ZFC (solid diamonds)
in 10 G (green symbols) and 100 G (yellow symbols) applied along the
(100) direction. The open green circles are FC data in 10 G after
warming to 20 K. Panels (a) and (b): Temperature dependence of the
susceptibility after field cooling in a field of 1 and 10 kG along the
(100), (110), and (001) directions. At temperatures above 50 K, the data
are well described by the Curie-Weiss expression
χ(T) = χ₀ + C/(T − Θ_(C)).

along the c axis is only 4

### **C. Resistivity**

Figure 5 shows the temperature dependence of the in-plane (ρ_(ab)) and
c-axis (ρ_(c)) electrical resistivities of RbEuFe₄As₄

Figure 4: Magnetization of the Eu sublattice vs applied field for (a) H
// (110) and (b) H // (001) at various temperatures. The insets in (a)
and (b) show the as-measured magnetization hysteresis loops. (c) A
comparison of the magnetization at 5 K measured along the three crystal
axes. The dashed lines represent the demagnetization fields due to the
platelike sample geometry.

Figure 5: Temperature dependence of the in-plane and out-of-plane
resistivities of RbEuFe₄As₄. The anisotropy changes from ∼4 at 200 K to
∼8 near T_(c).

measured with i = 1 mA. The residual resistivity ρ_(ab)(0) is estimated
at approximately 15 μΩ cm, indicating high-quality material. ρ_(ab) and
ρ_(c) are metallic, a feature seen in other 1144-type and 122-type
superconductors [26,53]. The resistivity anisotropy increases from ∼4
near 200 K to about 8 at T_(c), similar to the behavior of nonmagnetic
CaKFe₄As₄[26]. Such temperature-dependent anisotropy could arise in a
multiband system in which carriers in the different bands have different
mobilities with different temperature dependences. In all samples
studied, there is a sharp drop in the resistivity at the superconducting
transition temperature of T_(c)∼ 36.5-36.8 K, with a transition width of
0.5 K or less. The sharp feature at the top of the c-axis resistive
transition arises from nonideal contact geometry and the redistribution
of the current flow at the superconducting transition [54]. Below T_(c)
down to 1.6 K, we do not observe a reentrant resistive state associated
with the onset of magnetic order of the Eu sublattice, unlike observed
in other Eu-containing iron arsenides such as Eu(Fe_(1 − x)Ir_(x))₂As₂
and EuFe₂As₂ (under pressure) [55, 56, 57] or in several borocarbide
superconductors [6,7]. Our finding is consistent with very weak coupling
of Eu magnetism and superconductivity in RbEuFe₄As₄.

To study the superconducting anisotropy, resistivity measurements with
applied magnetic field parallel to the (1$\bar{1}$0) (ab plane) or the
(001) (c-axis) directions were performed (Fig. 6). Figures 6(a) and 6(b)
show resistivity measurements up to 9 T with an ab-planar current of 1
mA, with the field parallel to c and parallel to ab, respectively, on
the same single crystal of RbEuFe₄As₄. In both cases, the field was
perpendicular to the current. A modest anisotropy, the rather large
slopes of H_(c2)(T), and negative normal-state magnetoresistance are all
immediately noticeable. Figures 6(c) and 6(d) show resistivity
measurements with 1 mA parallel to the c axis on a separate crystal,
with the field parallel to c and ab, respectively. The results are
qualitatively the same as for ab planar current.

The resistivity data corresponding to the normal state in Fig. 6 reveal
a negative magnetoresistance (MR). Figure 7 shows measurements of the
isothermal transverse MR, Δρ/ρ(H = 0) = (ρ(H) − ρ(H = 0))/ρ(H = 0), for
H // (001) and H // (1$\bar{1}$0) at various temperatures with current
along (110). For H // (1$\bar{1}$0), the field and current were
perpendicular. The MR was obtained by slowly sweeping the applied
magnetic field from →9 to 9 T and by evaluating the symmetric part of
the signal in order to eliminate

Figure 6: Temperature and field dependence of the resistivity for
various field and current configurations. (a, b) Current in-plane and
field applied along the c axis and parallel to the ab planes,
respectively. (c, d) c-axis current and field applied along the c axis
and the ab planes.

spurious contributions from the Hall effect in nonideal contact
geometries. Measurements at currents of 1 mA and 0.1 mA yielded the same
results. We observe a clearly discernible negative transverse MR at
temperatures above T_(c), that is, in the paramagnetic state of the Eu
ions. With increasing temperature the MR decreases rapidly. A negative
MR has been observed previously in EuFe₂As₂[47, 58] in the magnetically
ordered and paramagnetic states of the Eu sublattice, and has been
attributed to the suppression of electron scattering by Eu spin
fluctuations. An analysis based on the Yamada-Takada model [59] yielded
a quantitative description of the effect [58]. The observation of a
large magnetic contribution to the specific heat in high fields and at
high temperatures [23, 24] reveals sizable spin fluctuations at
temperatures well above T_(m) and that a similar mechanism of negative
MR may be active in RbEuFe₄As₄. The data at 37.5 K suggest a change in
curvature of the MR at high fields, indicating the superposition of two
effects, the negative MR at low fields due to suppression of spin
scattering and the conventional positive MR due to the cyclotron motion
of the carriers that grows as (μ H)² where μ is the carrier mobility. As
in the case of EuFe₂As₂, the negative MR is a small effect, of the order
of a few percent.

### Superconducting phase diagram

We determine the superconducting phase diagram of RbEuFe₄As₄ from the
resistive transitions shown in Fig. 6 and from magnetization
measurements in fields up to 60 kG (see Fig. 8). Here, a quadratic
polynomial in 1/T has been fitted between 37 and 40 K and subtracted
from the magnetization data such as those shown in Fig. 3(b) to reveal
the superconducting signature. The anisotropic shift of the
superconducting transition in applied fields is clearly seen. We observe
that the 90

Figure 8: Temperature dependence of the magnetization in various fields
applied along the ab planes (a) and the c axis (b). The lines indicate
the construction of T_(c)(H).

Figure 7: Transverse magnetoresistance Δρ/ρ(H = 0) at multiple fixed
temperatures with i// (110) for (a) H// (001) and (b) H// (110) in a
single crystal of RbEuFe₄As₄.

resistivity anisotropy and a single-band Drude model for which
$\Gamma\sim\sqrt{\rho_{c}/\rho_{ab}}$ suggestive of multiband effects
and potential gap anisotropy.

Results obtained on the nonmagnetic sister compound CaKFe₄As₄[26, 60]
suggest that RbEuFe₄As₄ is a multiband superconductor; however, as
neither the inter- and intra-band pairing constants nor the details of
the Fermi surface are known, we present an approximate discussion of the
upper critical field using a single-band formalism. Using the GL
relationship H_(c2)(0) = −(dH_(c2)/dT)|_(T_(c)) * T_(c), we estimate
zero-temperature values of H_(c2)^(c)(0) ∼ 2500 kG and
H_(c2)^(c)(0) ∼ 1600 kG, very large but comparable to other Fe-based
superconductors [61, 62]. These estimates exceed the BCS paramagnetic
limit H_(p)(kG) = (1 + λ) * 18.4T_(c)(K), where λ is the electron-boson
coupling constant [63], even when including strong-coupling effects,
indicating that at low temperatures deviations from the GL extrapolation
will occur. Nevertheless, the in-plane and out-of-plane GL coherence
lengths ξ_(ab) and ξ_(c) may be estimated using the single-band
Ginzburg-Landau relations H_(c2)^(c)(0) = Φ₀/2πξ_(ab)²(0) and
H_(c2)^(ab)(0) = Φ₀/[2πξ_(ab)(0)ξ_(c)(0)], yielding ξ_(c)(0) = 0.92 nm
and ξ_(ab) = 1.4 nm. The estimate for ξ_(c)(0) is slightly smaller than
the c-axis lattice constant, making the low value of the anisotropy all
the more surprising.

With the help of the Rutgers relation a connection between the jump in
the specific heat and the superconducting phase boundaries can be
established: ΔC/T_(c) = (dH_(c2)^(c)/dT|_(T_(c)))²/8πκ_(c)². With
ΔC/T_(c) = 0.21 J/mol K² and the upper critical field slopes from Fig. 9
we obtain the GL parameters κ_(c) = λ_(ab)/ξ_(ab) ∼ 67 and
$\kappa_{ab}=\sqrt{\lambda_{ab}\lambda_{c}}/\sqrt{\xi_{ab}\xi_{c}}\sim 108$,
consistent with determinations based on the slopes of the M(T) curves
shown in Fig. 8. Thus, RbEuFe₄As₄ is in the extreme type-II limit, as is
commonly observed for the Fe-based superconductors.

These materials parameters allow one to estimate the Ginzburg number
G_(i), which describes the importance of superconducting thermal
fluctuations, as G_(i) = [8π²k_(B)ΓT_(c)κ_(c)²ξ_(ab)/ϕ₀²]²/2 ≈ 7 × 10⁻⁵.
This relatively low value is of the same order of magnitude as seen in
other 122 and 1144 Fe-based superconductors [26, 64] and is consistent
with the almost complete absence of fluctuation effects at the
superconducting transition (see inset of Fig. 2). In contrast, G_(i) is
significantly larger in the 1111 compounds, G_(i) ∼ 10⁻³ − 10⁻²[65, 66,
67], the principal difference being the much larger anisotropy of the
1111 materials.

## IV IV. Conclusion

In summary, among the superconductors containing ordered sublattices of
rare-earth magnetic moments RbEuFe₄As₄ attains a special place due to
its high magnetic and superconducting transition temperatures.
Orbital-selective superconducting pairing and magnetic exchange may
offer a framework for the coexistence of strong superconducting pairing
and sizable magnetic interactions in this layered material, even though
the underlying microscopic mechanisms have not been clarified yet. The
high value of T_(c), exceeding that of the nonmagnetic sister compound
CaKFe₄As₄[26], doping studies [28, 29], and the surprisingly low value
of the superconducting anisotropy, Γ ∼ 1.7, indicate that both
interaction channels are largely decoupled. In contrast to
superconductivity, Eu magnetism is highly anisotropic quasi-2D,
reflecting the large separation between the Eu layers. In a model of a
type-A antiferromagnetic structure, we estimate in-plane and
out-of-plane exchange constants of 0.6 K and less than 0.04 K,
respectively. This reduced dimensionality induces strong magnetic
fluctuations, a sizable suppression of the magnetic ordering temperature
below the paramagnetic Curie-Weiss temperature, and a kinklike specific
heat anomaly devoid of any singular behavior. These features distinguish
RbEuFe₄As₄ from the parent compound EuFe₂As₂ in which the distance
between Eu layers is half and magnetism is more 3D-like. Magnetization
curves reveal a clear magnetic easy-plane anisotropy of RbEuFe₄As₄ with
in-plane and out-of-plane saturation fields of 2 and 4 kG, respectively.
Further measurements will be necessary to determine the true magnetic
ground state of RbEuFe₄As₄.

###### Acknowledgements.

This work was supported by the U.S. Department of Energy, Office of
Science, Basic Energy Sciences, Materials Sciences and Engineering
Division. This research used resources of the Advanced Photon Source, a
U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) Office of Science User Facility operated
for the DOE Office of Science by Argonne National Laboratory under
Contract No. DE-AC02-06CH11357. M.P.S. thanks ND Energy for supporting
his research and professional development through the NDEnery
Postdoctoral Fellowship Program. K.W. acknowledges support through an
Early Postdoc Mobility Fellowship of the Swiss National Science
Foundation. Z.D. acknowledges support from the Swedish Research Council
(VR) under Grant No. 2015-00585, cofunded by Marie Sklodowska-Curie
Actions (Project No. INCA 600398). A.R. acknowledges support from the
Swedish Research Council (VR) under Grant No. 2016-04516. The authors
thank Roland Willa for helpful discussions.

Figure 9: The upper critical field of RbEuFe₄As₄ as determined from
magnetization (closed circles) and magnetotransport (open diamonds)
measurements.

* [1] S. Zapf and M. Dressel, Rep. Prog. Phys. **80**, 016501 (2017). *
[2] G.-H. Cao, W.-H. Jiao, Y.-K. Luo, Z. Ren, S. Jiang, and Z.-A. Xu, J.
Phys.: Conf. Ser. **391**, 012123 (2012). * [3]_Superconductivity in
Ternary Compounds II, Superconductivity and Magnetism_, edited by M. B.
Maple and O. Fischer (Springer, New York, 1982). * [4] O. Fischer and M.
B. Maple, _Ferromagnetic Materials_ (Elsevier, New York, 1990), Vol.
5. * [5] P. C. Canfield, P. L. Gammel, and D. J. Bishop, Phys. Today
**51**(10), 40 (1998). * [6] K.-H. Muller and V. N. Narozhnyi, Rep.
Prog. Phys. **64**, 943 (2001). * [7] H. Eisaki, H. Takagi, R. J. Cava,
B. Batlogg, J. J. Krajewski, W. F. Peck, K. Mizuhashi, J. O. Lee, and S.
Uchida, Phys. Rev. B **50**, 647 (1994). * [8] H. S. Jeevan, Z. Hossain,
D. Kasinathan, H. Rosner, C. Geibel, and P. Gegenwart, Phys. Rev. B
**78**, 052502 (2008). * [9] Y. Xiao, Y. Su, M. Meven, R. Mittal, C. M.
N. Kumar, T. Chatterji, S. Price, J. Persson, N. Kumar, S. K. Dhar _et
al._, Phys. Rev. B **80**, 174424 (2009). * [10] J. W. Lynn, S.
Skanthakumar, Q. Huang, S. K. Sinha, Z. Hossain, L. C. Gupta, R.
Nagarajan, and C. Godart, Phys. Rev. B **55**, 6584 (1997). * [11] C. F.
Miclea, M. Nicklas, H. S. Jeevan, D. Kasinathan, Z. Hossain, H. Rosner,
P. Gegenwart, C. Geibel, and F. Steglich, Phys. Rev. B **79**, 212509
(2009). * [12] K. Matsubayashi, K. Munakata, M. Isobe, N. Katayama, K.
Ohgushi, Y. Ueda, N. Kawamura, M. Mizumaki, N. Ishimatsu, M. Hedo _et
al._, Phys. Rev. B **84**, 024502 (2011). * [13] Z. Ren, Q. Tao, S.
Jiang, C. Feng, C. Wang, J. Dai, G. Cao, and Z. Xu, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**102**, 137002 (2009). * [14] H. S. Jeevan, D. Kasinathan, H. Rosner,
and P. Gegenwart, Phys. Rev. B **83**, 054511 (2011). * [15] H. S.
Jeevan, Z. Hossain, D. Kasinathan, H. Rosner, C. Geibel, and P.
Gegenwart, Phys. Rev. B **78**, 092406 (2008). * [16] J. Maiwald, H. S.
Jeevan, and P. Gegenwart, Phys. Rev. B **85**, 024511 (2012). * [17]
Anupam, P. L. Paulose, S. Ramakrishnan, and Z. Hossain, J. Phys.:
Condens. Matter **23**, 455702 (2011). * [18] Y. Qi, Z. Gao, L. Wang, D.
Wang, X. Zhang, and Y. Ma, New J. Phys. **10**, 123003 (2008). * [19] Y.
Qi, L. Wang, Z. Gao, X. Zhang, D. Wang, C. Yao, C. Wang, C. Wang, C.
Wang, and Y. Ma, New J. Phys. **14**, 033011 (2012). * [20] S. Nandi, W.
T. Jin, Y. Xiao, Y. Su, S. Price, W. Schmidt, K. Schmalzl, T. Chatterji,
H. S. Jeevan, P. Gegenwart _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **90**, 094407
(2014). * [21] G. Cao, S. Xu, Z. Ren, S. Jiang, C. Feng, and Z. Xu, J.
Phys.: Condens. Matter **23**, 464204 (2011). * [22] K. Kawashima, T.
Kinjo, T. Nishio, S. Ishida, H. Fujihisa, Y. Gotoh, K. Kihou, H. Eisaki,
Y. Yoshida, and A. Iyo, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **85**, 064710 (2016). * [23]
A. Iyo, K. Kawashima, T. Kinjo, T. Nishio, S. Ishida, H. Fujihisa, Y. Y.
Gotoh, K. Kihou, H. Eisaki, and Y. Yoshida, J. Am. Chem. Soc. **138**,
3410 (2016). * [24] Y. Liu, Y.-B. Liu, Z.-T. Tang, H. Jiang, Z.-C. Wang,
A. Ablimit, W.-H. Jiao, Q. Tao, C.-M. Feng, Z.-A. Xu _et al._, Phys.
Rev. B **93**, 214503 (2016). * [25] Y. Liu, Y.-B. Liu, Q. Chen, Z.-T.
Tang, W.-H. Jiao, Q. Tao, Z.-A. Xu, and G.-H. Cao, Sci. Bull. **61**,
1213 (2016). * [26] W. R. Meier, T. Kong, U. S. Kaluarachchi, V.
Taufour, N. H. Jo, G. Drachuck, A. E. Bohmer, S. M. Saunders, A.
Sapkota, A. Kreyssig _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **94**, 064501 (2016). *
[27] K. Kawashima, S. Ishida, H. Fujihisa, Y. Gotoh, K. Kihou, Y.
Yoshida, H. Eisaki, H. Ogino, and A. Iyo, J. Phys. Chem. Lett. **9**,
868 (2018). * [28] Y. Liu, Y.-B. Liu, Y.-L. Yu, Q. Tao, C.-M. Feng, and
G.-H. Cao, Phys. Rev. B **96**, 224510 (2017). * [29] K. Kawashima, S.
Ishida, K. Oka, H. Kito, N. Takeshita, H. Fujihisa, Y. Gotoh, K. Kihou,
H. Eisaki, Y. Yoshida _et al._, J. Phys.: Conf. Ser. **909**, 012027
(2018). * [30] J.-K. Bao, K. Willa, M. P. Smylie, H. Chen, U. Welp, D.
Y. Chung, and M. G. Kanatzidis, Cryst. Growth Des. **18**, 3517
(2018). * [31] S. Tagliati, V. M. Krasnov, and A. Rydh, Rev. Sci.
Instrum. **83**, 055107 (2012). * [32] K. Willa, Z. Diao, D. Campanini,
U. Welp, R. Divan, M. Hudl, Z. Islam, W.-K. Kwok, and A. Rydh, Rev. Sci.
Instrum. **88**, 125108 (2017). * [33] J. P. Carbotte, Rev. Mod. Phys.
**62**, 1027 (1990). * [34] F. Bouquet, R. A. Fisher, N. E. Phillips, D.
G. Hinks, and J. D. Jorgensen, Phys. Rev. Lett. **87**, 047001 (2001). *
[35] U. Welp, R. Xie, A. E. Koshelev, W. K. Kwok, H. Q. Luo, Z. S. Wang,
G. Mu, and H. H. Wen, Phys. Rev. B **79**, 094505 (2009). * [36] Z. Ren,
Z. Zhu, S. Jiang, X. Xu, Q. Tao, C. Wang, C. Feng, G. Cao, and Z. Xu,
Phys. Rev. B **78**, 052501 (2008). * [37] U. B. Paramanik, P. L.
Paulose, S. Ramakrishnan, A. K. Nigam, C. Geibel, and Z. Hossain,
Supercond. Sci. Technol. **27**, 075012 (2014). * [38] A. Oleaga, A.
Salazar, A. Thamizhavel, and S. Dhar, J. Alloys Compd. **617**, 534
(2014). * [39] J. Tobochnik and G. V. Chester, Phys. Rev. B **20**, 3761
(1979). * [40] R. Gupta and C. F. Baillie, Phys. Rev. B **45**, 2883
(1992). * [41] W. Janke and T. Matsui, Phys. Rev. B **42**, 10673
(1990). * [42] P. Sengupta, A. W. Sandvik, and R. R. P. Singh, Phys.
Rev. B **68**, 094423 (2003). * [43] D. C. Johnston, R. J. McQueeney, B.
Lake, A. Honecker, M. E. Zhitomirsky, R. Nath, Y. Furukawa, V. P.
Antropov, and Y. Singh, Phys. Rev. B **84**, 094445 (2011). * [44] M.
Bouvier, P. Lethuillier, and D. Schmitt, Phys. Rev. B **43**, 13137
(1991). * [45] N. S. Sangeetha, E. Cuervo-Reyes, A. Pandey, and D. C.
Johnston, Phys. Rev. B **94**, 014422 (2016). * [46] M. A. Albedah, F.
Nejadsattari, Z. M. Stadnik, Y. Liu, and G.-H. Cao, Phys. Rev. B **97**,
144426 (2018). * [47] S. Jiang, Y. Luo, Z. Ren, Z. Zhu, C. Wang, X. Xu,
Q. Tao, G. Cao, and Z. Xu, New J. Phys. **11**, 025007 (2009). * [48] Y.
Xiao, Y. Su, W. Schmidt, K. Schmalzl, C. M. N. Kumar, S. Price, T.
Chatterji, R. Mittal, L. J. Chang, S. Nandi _et al._, Phys. Rev. B
**81**, 220406 (2010). * [49] K. H. J. Buschow and F. R. de Boer,
_Physics of Magnetism and Magnetic Materials_, 1st ed. (Springer New
York, 2003). * [50] P. O. Sprau, A. Kostin, A. Kreisel, A. E. Bohmer, V.
Taufour, P. C. Canfield, S. Mukherjee, P. J. Hirschfeld, B. M. Andersen,
and J. C. S. Davis, Science **357**, 75 (2017). * [51] S. Raghu, X.-L.
Qi, C.-X. Liu, D. J. Scalapino, and S.-C. Zhang, Phys. Rev. B **77**,
220503 (2008). * [52] Z. Ren, X. Lin, Q. Tao, S. Jiang, Z. Zhu, C. Wang,
G * [53] M. A. Tanatar, N. Ni, G. D. Samolyuk, S. L. Bud’ko, P. C.
Canfield, and R. Prozorov, Phys. Rev. B **79**, 134528 (2009). * [54] R.
Vaglio, C. Attanasio, L. Maritato, and A. Ruosi, Phys. Rev. B **47**,
15302 (1993). * [55] N. Kurita, M. Kimata, K. Kodama, A. Harada, M.
Tomita, H. S. Suzuki, T. Matsumoto, K. Murata, S. Uji, and T. Terashima,
Phys. Rev. B **83**, 214513 (2011). * [56] U. B. Paramanik, D. Das, R.
Prasad, and Z. Hossain, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter **25**, 265701
(2013). * [57] W.-H. Jiao, Q. Tao, J.-K. Bao, Y.-L. Sun, C.-M. Feng,
Z.-A. Xu, I. Nowik, I. Felner, and G.-H. Cao, Europhys. Lett. **95**,
67007 (2011). * [58] T. Terashima, N. Kurita, A. Kikkawa, H. S. Suzuki,
T. Matsumoto, K. Murata, and S. Uji, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **79**, 103706
(2010). * [59] H. Yamada and S. Takada, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **34**, 51
(1973). * [60] S. Teknowijoyo, K. Cho, M. Konczykowski, E. I. Timmons,
M. A. Tanatar, W. R. Meier, M. Xu, S. L. Bud’ko, P. C. Canfield, and R.
Prozorov, Phys. Rev. B **97**, 140508 (2018). * [61] H. Q. Yuan, J.
Singleton, F. F. Balakirev, S. A. Baily, G. F. Chen, J. L. Luo, and N.
L. Wang, Nature (London) **457**, 565 (2009). * [62] A. Gurevich, Nat.
Mater. **10**, 255 (2011). * [63] M. Schossmann and J. P. Carbotte,
Phys. Rev. B **39**, 4210 (1989). * [64] C. Chaparro, L. Fang, H. Claus,
A. Rydh, G. W. Crabtree, V. Stanev, W. K. Kwok, and U. Welp, Phys. Rev.
B **85**, 184525 (2012). * [65] U. Welp, R. Xie, A. E. Koshelev, W. K.
Kwok, P. Cheng, L. Fang, and H.-H. Wen, Phys. Rev. B **78**, 140510
(2008). * [66] Z. Pribulova, T. Klein, J. Kacmarcik, C. Marcenat, M.
Konczykowski, S. L. Bud’ko, M. Tillman, and P. C. Canfield, Phys. Rev. B
**79**, 020508 (2009). * [67] U. Welp, C. Chaparro, A. E. Koshelev, W.
K. Kwok, A. Rydh, N. D. Zhigadlo, J. Karpinski, and S. Weyeneth, Phys.
Rev. B **83**, 100513 (2011).
