# Heavy fermion behavior in PrRh₂B₂C: Excitonic mass enhancement

V. K. Anand

wanna@email.unc.edu Department of Physics, Indian Institute of
Technology, Kanpur 208016, India

Z. Hossain

Department of Physics, Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur 208016,
India

G. Chen

Max Planck Institute for Chemical Physics of Solids, 01187 Dresden,
Germany

M. Nicklas

Max Planck Institute for Chemical Physics of Solids, 01187 Dresden,
Germany

C. Geibel

Max Planck Institute for Chemical Physics of Solids, 01187 Dresden,
Germany

26 October 2008; published 30 March 2009

###### Abstract

We report magnetic and transport properties of a quaternary borocarbide
PrRh₂B₂C based on magnetization, resistivity, and specific-heat studies.
This compound forms in LuNi₂B₂C-type tetragonal structure (space group
I4/mmm) and does not exhibit magnetic ordering or superconductivity down
to 0.5 K. The crystal-field analysis of specific-heat data suggests a
singlet ground state in this compound. The high value of the Sommerfeld
coefficient, γ^(∞) 250 mJ/mole K², together with a singlet ground state
suggests that the heavy fermion behavior in PrRh₂B₂C results from the
interaction of the conduction electrons with the low-lying crystal-field
excitations. No signature of magnetic ordering or superconductivity is
observed in PrRh₂B₂C under the application of pressure up to 23 kbar.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.79.113107 PACS number(s): 71.27.+a, 71.70.Ch,
72.10.Di, 74.70.Dd + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL REVIEW B **79**,
113107 (2009)

## I Introduction

The heavy fermion systems have fascinated the condensed matter
physicists with the exciting physics in the vicinity of quantum critical
point. Most of the known heavy fermion systems belong to Ce-, Yb- or
U-based intermetallic compounds. Recently discovered Pr-based heavy
fermion superconductor PrOs₄Sb₁₂ (Ref. [1]) presents many unusual
phenomena such as two distinct superconducting phases, time reversal
symmetry breaking, point nodes at Fermi surface, etc. [1, 2, 3, 4, 5] In
contrast to the numerous Ce-based magnetically mediated heavy fermion
superconductors, PrOs₄Sb₁₂ is the only known Pr-based heavy fermion
superconductor. Further, in contrast to the case of Ce compounds where
spin Kondo effect leads to the heavy fermion behavior, in Pr compounds
such as PrInAg₂ and PrFe₄P₁₂ it is the quadrupolar Kondo effect which is
suggested to be responsible for heavy fermion behavior. [6, 7]

Another important mechanism for mass enhancement in Pr compounds is the
inelastic scattering of conduction electrons by the angular momentum
associated with the crystal electric field (CEF) levels referred to as
excitonic mass enhancement. The theory of excitonic mass enhancement was
proposed by White and Fulde [8] to explain the mass enhancement in
elemental Pr itself and subsequently extended to rare-earth systems with
a CEF-split nonmagnetic singlet ground state. [9] The true realization
of heavy fermion behavior due to crystal-field excitons was found in
PrOs₄Sb₁₂ with a Sommerfeld coefficient γ^(∞) 350 mJ/mole K^(2.5) Very
recently we have seen evidence of excitonic mass enhancement in
Pr₂Rh₃Ge₅ leading to moderate heavy fermion behavior. [10] We present
further evidence for excitonic mass enhancement in PrRh₂B₂C in this
Brief Report. In addition to providing one more example of Pr-based
heavy fermion compound through our analysis of specific-heat data we
attempt to provide a qualitative explanation of the unusual route to the
heavy fermion state in this compound. PrRh₂B₂C is a member of the
quaternary borocarbide family that gives rise to the hope to provide a
route to high-temperature superconductivity in boron based compounds
which provided a unique playground to investigate the interplay between
superconductivity and magnetism. We present in this Brief Report
electrical resistivity, magnetic susceptibility, and specific-heat data
of a Pr-based quaternary compound. The reproducibility of the results
has been checked by similar studies on a second batch of samples.

## II Experimental

We prepared polycrystalline samples of PrRh₂B₂C and the nonmagnetic
reference compound LaRh₂B₂C starting with high purity elements (99.99

## III Results and Discussion

The powder XRD data of a polycrystalline sample of PrRh₂B₂C were
analyzed by winxpoW software and further refined by least-squares
Rietveld refinement method using the fullprof software (Fig. 1), the
quality parameter χ² be ing 2.82. PrRh₂B₂C forms in LuNi₂B₂C-type
tetragonal structure (space group I4/mmm) with lattice constants a
=3.855 A, c = 10.257 A and unit cell volume=152.44 A³. The nonmagnetic
reference compound LaRh₂B₂C also crystallizes in the same tetragonal
structure with lattice constants a = 3.896 A, c = 10.247 A and unit cell
volume=155.53 A³, which are in fairly good agreement with the values
reported.[11] From XRD and scanning electron microscope (SEM) image we
estimate impurity phase(s) to be less than 3

The magnetic susceptibility data of PrRh₂B₂C are shown in Fig. 2 as a
function of temperature. No anomaly is seen in the susceptibility down
to 2 K. At higher temperatures the susceptibility curve follows a
Curie-Weiss behavior χ = C/(T − θ_(p)). From the linear fit of inverse
susceptibility data at 1.0 T we obtained the effective moment
$\mu_{\rm eff}$=3.59 μ_(B), which is very close to the theoretically
expected value of 3.58 μ_(B) for Pr³⁺ ion. The paramagnetic Curie-Weiss
temperature, θ_(p)=-3.9 K. The inset of Fig. 2 shows the magnetic-field
dependence of isothermal magnetization, M(B) of PrRh₂B₂C. The isothermal
magnetization at 2 K shows slight nonlinearity, most likely due to the
crystal-field effects [the kink in M(B) near 2.7 T is an experimental
artifact]. The magnetization does not reach the saturation value up to 5
T; it attains a value of 1.17μ_(B) at 5 T.

The specific-heat data of PrRh₂B₂C do not show any anomaly corresponding
to a magnetic or superconducting transition down to 0.5 K. However, a
broad Schottky-type anomaly centered around 9 K is observed in the
magnetic part of specific heat. The magnetic contribution to the
specific heat, obtained by subtracting the specific heat of LaRh₂B₂C
from that of PrRh₂B₂C, assuming the lattice contribution to be
approximately equal to the specific heat of LaRh₂B₂C is shown in Fig. 3.
The experimentally observed feature of the magnetic part of the specific
heat above 2 K could be reproduced by a CEF analysis with four levels:
three singlets at 0, 14, and 36 K and a doublet at 155 K. The solid line
in Fig. 3 represents the fit with this CEF level scheme. The inset of
Fig. 3 shows the magnetic contribution to the entropy of PrRh₂B₂C. The
magnetic entropy attains a value of R ln(2) at 10 K supporting the
proposed CEF level scheme of a singlet ground state lying below the
first excited singlet at 14 K. From the specific-heat data below 2 K we
estimate a lower bound to the value of Sommerfeld coefficient γ≈ 250 mJ/
mole K². It is observed that below 0.5 K C/T increases with decreasing
temperature (inset of Fig. 4) while C keeps on decreasing. Such a
behavior of specific heat suggests a gradual onset of heavy fermion
state and has some similarity with the C/T upturn in heavy fermion
compounds YbNi₂B₂C (Ref. [12]) and YbRh₂Si₂.[13] However, we cannot
entirely exclude the possibility that sharp increase in C/T might be
related to the onset of phase transition at further lower temperatures.

The electrical resistivity of PrRh₂B₂C shown in Fig. 4 exhibits metallic
behavior with $\rho_{\rm 300~{}\kappa}$=68 μΩ cm, residual resistivity
$\rho_{\rm 0}$≈ 42 μΩ cm, and residual resistivity ratio RRR=
$\rho_{\rm 300~{}\kappa}$/$\rho_{\rm 0}$≈ 1.6. At higher temperatures
the resistivity decreases almost linearly with decreasing temperature.
We attribute the anomaly around 10 K to be due to crystal-field

Figure 1: (Color online) Powder x-ray diffraction pattern of PrRh₂B₂C
recorded at room temperature. The solid line through the experimental
points is the Rietveld refinement profile calculated for LuNi₂B₂C-type
tetragonal I4/mmm structural model. The lower-most curve represents the
difference between the experimental and model results.

Figure 3: Magnetic part of specific heat of PrRh₂B₂C as a function of
temperature. Solid line shows the fit to the CEF scheme as described in
the text. Inset shows the temperature dependence of magnetic part of
entropy.

Figure 2: Temperature dependence of inverse magnetic susceptibility of
PrRh₂B₂C measured in a field of 1.0 T. The inset shows the field
dependence of isothermal magnetization at 2 K.

effect which is consistent with the specific-heat data. The electrical
resistivity of LaRh₂B₂C which we measured down to 0.5 K also shows
metallic behavior. A rapid drop is observed in resistivity of the
La-based compound below 3 K possibly due to incipient superconductivity.

The low-temperature electrical resistivity data of PrRh₂B₂C fit well
with ρ(T) = ρ₀ + A_T_^(n) with n ≈ 1.5 and A = 0.1 μΩ cm/K^(n) and is
shown in the inset of Fig. 4 plotted as ρ vs T^(1.5) below 5 K. A
T^(1.5) temperature dependence of the electrical resistivity is a
characteristic of non-Fermi-liquid behavior as predicted by the spin
fluctuation theory for a three-dimensional system near an
antiferromagnetic quantum critical point (AF-QCP). However in our
compound because of the singlet ground state the departure from the
Fermi liquid behavior is more likely to be due to the presence of
low-lying CEF levels. Further on, the residual resistivity is rather
high which makes the power-law exponent not so reliable. Therefore, we
refrain from putting too much stress on the resistivity exponent and the
associated non-Fermi-liquid nature and proximity of PrRh₂B₂C to an
AF-QCP.

We also calculated the value of Wilson ratio using the value of χ=0.25
emu/ mole at 2 K and $\mu_{\rm eff}$=3.59μ_(B) together with γ^(∞)250
mJ/mole K² and obtained R_(w)=17 which is quite large. The high value of
electronic specific-heat coefficient γ together with the enhanced value
of R_(w) is a clear indication of strong correlations and heavy fermion
behavior in this compound. Since no Kondo-type behavior is observed in
ρ(T), the mechanism for the heavy fermion behavior may be rooted in the
low-lying CEF splitting similar to that in the heavy fermion
superconductor PrOs₄Sb₁₂.[15, 16] It was suggested by Fulde and
Jensen[9] that for a system with CEF-split singlet ground state and low
CEF splitting energy the inelastic scattering of conduction electrons
with the excited levels of angular momentum of the 4f electrons can
result in an enhanced mass of the conduction electrons. After a rigorous
theoretical analysis they have shown that the enhanced mass due to the
inelastic transition between two levels i and j can be found by the
expression[9]

$$\frac{m\ast}{m}=1+(g_{J}-1)^{2}J_{sf}^{2}N(0)\frac{2|\langle i|J|j\rangle|^{2} }{\Delta},$$

where J_(sf) is the exchange integral coupling between the conduction
electrons and the f electrons, and N(0) conduction electron density of
states at the Fermi level. The matrix element between i and j can be
calculated using the CEF parameters. An inelastic neutron-scattering
experiment on PrRh₂B₂C is highly desired to know the exact CEF level
scheme and evaluate the matrix elements. The CEF analysis of
specific-heat data clearly suggests a CEF-split singlet ground state
with another singlet excited state at about 14 K and therefore an
excitonic mass enhancement by the crystal-field excitations leading to
the heavy fermion behavior in PrRh₂B₂C.

Using similar CEF analysis of magnetic specific-heat data we have seen
that PrPd₂B₂C also has a singlet ground state lying below the first
excited singlet at 50 K and a doublet at 80 K.[14] However, the value of
Sommerfeld coefficient γ = 16 mJ/mole K² is much lower than that of
PrRh₂B₂C, consistent with the theory of White and Fulde,[8] the γ value
being inversely proportional to the separation between the ground state
and the excited state. For a better insight of excitonic mass
enhancement in Pr compounds with nonmagnetic singlet ground state we
present the values of Sommerfeld coefficient γ, crystal-field splitting
energy Δ, and low-temperature saturation value of magnetic
susceptibility χ in Table 1. A comparison of γ and Δ in these systems
clearly reflects a systematic variation in their value; a smaller Δ

  ----------- -------------- --------------------- -------------------- -------------- ------------------
               Ground state   First excited state   Splitting energy Δ        γ                χ₀
                                                           (K)           (mJ/mole K²)   (×10⁻² emu/mole)
   PrRh₂B₂C      Singlet            Singlet                 14               250              20.4
   Pr₂Rh₃Ge₅     Singlet            Singlet                 12                81             10.6a
   PrPd₂B₂C      Singlet            Singlet                 50                16              3.8b
    PrRhGe₃      Singlet            Doublet                 70                10              3.8c
  ----------- -------------- --------------------- -------------------- -------------- ------------------

Table 1: The Sommerfeld coefficient γ, crystal-field splitting energy Δ,
and low-temperature saturation value of magnetic susceptibility χ for
few Pr compounds having nonmagnetic singlet as ground state.

Figure 4: Temperature dependence of electrical resistivity of PrRh₂B₂C
in the temperature range 0.5–300 K. The lower inset shows the electrical
resistivity data below 5 K plotted as ρ vs T^(1.5) (measured on second
sample). The solid line is a guide for the eyes. The upper inset shows
the low-temperature specific-heat data below 2 K plotted as C/T vs T.

results in an increased γ and vice versa. All these results establish
the more general nature of the mechanism of excitonic mass enhancement
in Pr compounds, and the mass enhancement due to low-lying crystal-field
excitations can even lead to the development of heavy fermion state as
in our system PrRh₂B₂C.

The application of pressure is expected to change the CEF level
splitting energy and therefore to influence the physical properties. We
therefore made an effort to achieve a stable ordered phase in PrRh₂B₂C
by applying external pressure. In the resistivity studies shown in Fig.
5 no significant effect (except a slight increase in magnitude of
resistivity) of pressure was observed up to 23 kbar. Especially, the
position of the anomaly around 10 K attributed to the CEF effect is
independent of pressure (the inflection point in dρ/dT characterizing
the position of anomaly changes almost negligibly for the pressures of
0, 1.33, and 2.24 GPa) indicating that the applied pressure of up to 23
kbar has no considerable effect on the CEF level splitting scheme.
Furthermore, this pressure is not sufficient to stabilize any
superconducting or magnetically ordered phase in PrRh₂B₂C. The
insensitivity to external pressure can be explained in the very rigid
framework of the RNi₂B₂C structure as evidenced from a very high value
of bulk modulus [e.g., YNi₂B₂C (Ref. [16]]].

## IV IV. Conclusion

We present clear evidence of heavy fermion behavior in the quaternary
borocarbide PrRh₂B₂C. The mechanism for the electronic mass enhancement
in this case is not the usual Kondo effect but it is due to the
low-lying crystal-field excitations. In this compound the ground state
is a singlet separated from the first excited state only by about 10 K.
Our effort to induce magnetism or superconductivity using hydrostatic
pressure did not succeed. This is attributed to extremely rigid frame of
the borocarbide structure as evidenced from high bulk modulus of
YNi₂B₂C.

## Acknowledgment

We acknowledge CSR Indore (India) for providing access to
low-temperature measurements using PPMS.

## References

* [*]vivekkranand@gmail.com * [2] E. D. Bauer, N. A. Frederick, P.-C.
Ho, V. S. Zapf, and M. B. Maple, Phys. Rev. B **65**, 100506(R)
(2002). * [3] K. Izawa, Y. Nakajima, J. Goryo, Y. Matsuda, S. Osaki, H.
Sugawara, H. Sato, P. Thalmeier, and K. Maki, Phys. Rev. Lett. **90**,
117001 (2003). * [4] Y. Aoki, A. Tsuchiya, T. Kanayama, S. R. Saha, H.
Sugawara, H. Sato, W. Higemoto, A. Koda, K. Ohishi, K. Nishiyama, and R.
Kadono, Phys. Rev. Lett. **91**, 067003 (2003). * [5] Elbert E. M. Chia,
M. B. Salamon, H. Sugawara, and H. Sato, Phys. Rev. Lett. **91**, 247003
(2003). * [6] E. A. Goremychkin, R. Osborn, E. D. Bauer, M. B. Maple, N.
A. Frederick, W. M. Yuhasz, F. M. Woodward, and J. W. Lynn, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **93**, 157003 (2004). * [7] A. Yatskar, W. P. Beyermann, R.
Movshovich, and P. C. Canfield, Phys. Rev. Lett. **77**, 3637 (1996). *
[8] H. Sugawara, T. D. Matsuda, K. Abe, Y. Aoki, H. Sato, S. Nojiri, Y.
Inada, R. Settai, and Y. Onuki, Phys. Rev. B **66**, 134411 (2002). *
[9] R. M. White and P. Fulde, Phys. Rev. Lett. **47**, 1540 (1981). *
[10] P. Fulde and J. Jensen, Phys. Rev. B **27**, 4085 (1983). * [11] V.
K. Anand, Z. Hossain, and C. Geibel, Phys. Rev. B **77**, 184407
(2008). * [12] R. J. Cava, T. Siegrist, B. Batlogg, H. Takagi, H.
Eisaki, S. A. Carter, J. J. Krajewski, and W. F. Peck, Phys. Rev. B
**50**, 12966 (1994). * [13] A. Yatskar, N. K. Budraa, W. P. Beyermann,
P. C. Canfield, and S. L. Bud’ko, Phys. Rev. B **54**, R3772 (1996). *
[14] O. Trovarelli, C. Geibel, S. Mederle, C. Langhammer, F. M. Grosche,
P. Gegenwart, M. Lang, G. Sparn, and F. Steglich, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**85**, 626 (2000). * [15] V. K. Anand, A. Chaudhuri, S. K. Dhar, C.
Geibel, and Z. Hossain, Physica C **460-462**, 785 (2007). * [16] V. K.
Anand, Z. Hossain, and C. Geibel, Solid State Commun. **146**, 335
(2008). * [17] S. Meenakshi, V. Vijayakumar, R. S. Rao, B. K. Godwal, S.
K. Sikka, P. Ravindran, Z. Hossain, R. Nagarajan, L. C. Gupta, and R.
Vijayraghavan, Phys. Rev. B **58**, 3377 (1998).

Figure 5: (Color online) Electrical resistivity, ρ(T), of PrRh₂B₂C
measured under the application of external pressures up to 23 kbar.
Inset shows the extended view of low-temperature resistivity.
