Anisotropic s-wave superconductivity in CaAlSi single crystals from
penetration depth measurements

Ruslan Prozorov

Ames Laboratory and Department of Physics and Astronomy, Iowa State
University, Ames, Iowa 50011, USA

Tyson A. Olheiser

Russell W. Giannetta

Department of Physics, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, 1110
West Green Street, Urbana, Illinois 61801, USA

Kentaro Uozato

Tsuyoshi Tamegai

Department of Applied Physics, The University of Tokyo, Hongo,
Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 113-8656, Japan

28 February 200628 February 200628 May 200628 February 200628 May 200628
February 200628 May 2006

###### Abstract

In- and out-of-plane London penetration depths were measured in CaAlSi
single crystals (T_(c)=6.2 and 7.3 K) using a tunnel-diode resonator. A
full three-dimensional (3D) BCS analysis of the superfluid density is
consistent with a prolate spheroidal gap, with a weak-coupling BCS value
in the ab plane and stronger coupling along the c axis. The gap
anisotropy was found to significantly decrease for higher T_(c) samples.

pacs: 74.25.Nf, 74.20.Rp, 74.70.Ad + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL
REVIEW B **73**, 184523 (2006)

Superconductors with an AlB₂ structure have received increased attention
after the discovery of superconductivity at 39 K and especially after
identification of two distinct gaps in MgB₂.[1, 2, 3] It is believed
that two gaps survive because of reduced interband scattering due to the
different dimensionality of two-dimensional (2D) σ and three-dimensional
(3D) π bands. Investigating materials with similar crystal and band
structure is therefore important for understanding the mechanism of
superconductivity in this class of hexagonal-layer compounds. In this
paper we study CaAlSi which has been synthesized long ago,[4] but in
which superconductivity was discovered only recently.[5] Band structure
calculations show highly hybridized three-dimensional interlayer and
π^(*) bands.[6, 7] Although most studies of CaAlSi indicate s-wave
pairing, deviations from a single isotropic gap behavior have been
reported.[5, 8, 9, 10, 11] Magnetic measurements indicate a fully
developed s-wave BCS gap.[9, 12] Angle-resolved photoemission
spectroscopy[10] revealed the same gap magnitude on the two bands with a
moderately strong coupling value for the reduced gap 2Δ/k_(B)T_(c)=4.2.
Together with specific heat measurements[11] it provided reliable
evidence for a three-dimensional moderately strong-coupled s-wave BCS
superconductivity. On the other hand, μSR studies have been interpreted
as evidence of either one highly anisotropic or two distinct energy
gaps.[8] Furthermore, five-fold and six-fold stacking sequences of
(Al,Si) layers corresponding to two different values of T_(c) of ∼6 and
∼8 K were found.[13] Therefore, an experimental study of in- and
out-of-plane superfluid density is needed to understand the anisotropic
superconducting gap structure and to elucidate the mechanism of
superconductivity in AlB₂ type compounds.

Single crystals of CaAlSi were grown from Ca:Al:Si (1:1:1) ignots using
a floating zone method as described elsewhere.[18] Samples have T_(c)
either 6.2 or 7.3 K, which is directly related to different stacking
sequences.[13] We measured two of each type of slab-shaped crystals with
typical dimensions 0.3 × 0.3 × 0.4 mm³. The penetration depth was
measured with an LC tunnel-diode oscillator which is sensitive to
changes in the susceptibility of several pico-emu or, equivalently, to
changes in the London penetration depth of about 0.3 A for our
crystals.[16] The quantitative analysis of the frequency shift depends
on the sample shape and relative orientation of the excitation field
H_(ac) with respect to the principal axes. Assuming a superconducting
crystal with an isotropic in-plane response determined by the in-plane
penetration depth λ_(ab)(T) and possibly different c-axis penetration
depth λ_(c)(T) at least two experimental arrangements are required to
extract λ_(ab)(T) and λ_(c)(T) separately. In the H_(ac)||c-axis
orientation, superconducting currents are generated in the ab plane,
thus the susceptibility is determined only by λ_(ab)(T) and the
frequency shift Δf(T)=f(T)=f₀ is given by

$$\Delta f(T)=\frac{f_{0}V_{s}}{2V_{0}(1-N)}\Bigg{[}1-\frac{\lambda(T)}{R}\tanh \left(\frac{R}{\lambda(T)}\right)\Bigg{]},$$
(1)

where V₀ is the effective coil volume, N is the demagnetization factor,
λ(T) is the London penetration depth, and R is the effective planar
sample dimension.[16] With magnetic susceptibility χ this equation is
just Δf(T)=−4πχ(T)Δf₀ where the only sample shape-dependent parameter
Δf₀ is measured directly by pulling the sample out of the coil at a low
temperature.

Figure 1 shows the in-plane penetration depth determined from the
frequency shift using Eq. (1). The zero-temperature value was estimated
from the fit to the BCS formula as described below. This value is not
important for the analysis of Δλ_(ab)(T), but is needed to estimate the
superfluid density. Muon spin rotation gives λ_(ab)(0)=2390 A,[8]
measurements of the critical field λ_(ab)(0)=3140 A,[9] and reversible
magnetization λ_(ab)(0)=3100 A.[9] Our conclusions are not significantly
affected by the variation of these values. The main purpose of Fig. 1 is
to compare crystals with different T_(c). The inset shows data on a full
temperature scale. The signal saturates at the level corresponding to
the normal-state skin depth, thus providing additional
information–contactless measurements of the resistivity above the
transition. We find 45 and 33 μΩ cm for T_(c)=6.2 and 7.3 K,
respectively, which is in an

agreement with direct measurements on single crystals, which found 36 μΩ
cm on a higher T_(c) sample.[17; 18] On the contrary, when λ_(ab)(T) is
plotted versus a reduced temperature T/T_(c), the curves for the two
samples coincide (no normalization was done for the y axis). The open
symbols in Fig. 1 show the results for T_(c) = 7.3 K crystal, whereas
closed symbols show T_(c) = 6.2 K material. The data are well fit by the
standard weak-coupling s-wave BCS model

$$\frac{\Delta\lambda(T)}{\lambda(0)}=\sqrt{\frac{\pi\Delta(0)}{2T}}\exp\left(- \frac{\Delta(0)}{T}\right),$$
(2)

where, from Δλ_(ab)(T), we obtained Δ_(ab)(0) = 1.76k_(B)T_(c)-a
weak-coupling s-wave BCS superconducting gap.

In the H_(ac)|ab orientation shielding currents flow along both the ab
plane and the c axis. The full magnetic susceptibility is obtained from
the anisotropic London equation, which must be solved numerically to
extract the interplane penetration depth λ_(c)(T). For a slab
2b × 2d × 2w with magnetic field oriented along the longest side w the
following solution has been obtained:[19]

$$\frac{\Delta f_{c}(T)}{\Delta\beta_{0}^{Hlab}}=1-\frac{\lambda_{ab}}{d}\tanh \left(\frac{d}{\lambda_{ab}}\right)-2\lambda_{c}b^{2}\sum_{m=0}^{\infty}\frac{ \tanh(\vec{b}_{m}\lambda_{c})}{k_{n}^{2}\vec{b}_{n}^{3}},$$
(3)

where k_(n) = π(n + 1/2) and b⃗_(n) = The following data analysis was
performed. By measuring the same sample in two orthogonal orientations
(along the c axis and along the ab plane), both λ_(ab)(T) and Δf_(c)
were obtained. The latter contains contributions from both λ_(ab)(T) and
λ_(c)(T). Equation (3) was then used to numerically evaluate λ_(c)(T).
Low-temperature BCS fits as well as measurements of the reversible
magnetization were used to estimate λ_(ab)(0) = 0.31 μm and λ_(c)(0) =
0.65 μm. Fits over the full temperature range confirmed the assumed
values. Then Eqs. (4) and (5) were used to fit the data. As a final
step, both curves ρ_(ab)(T) and ρ_(c)(T) were generated from a single
set of fitting parameters.

Figure 3 shows data and fitting results for the lower T_(c) = 6.2 K
samples. Symbols are the measured data points and solid lines are
calculated for the ellipsoidal gap shown in the inset. The fitting
procedure yielded the weak-coupling BCS value 2λ_(ab)(0)/k_(B)T_(c) =
3.53 in the ab plane and ε = 0.656 corresponding to 2λ_(c)(0)/k_(B)T_(c)
= 6.02 gap maximum along the c axis.

Figure 4 shows similar results for the samples with T_(c) = 7.3 K. There
is an obvious reduction of the gap anisotropy. The best fit to the
ellipsoidal gap yields ε = 0.206 resulting in 2λ_(c)(0)/k_(B)T_(c) =
3.98. It should be noted that in most previous works only averaged
values of the superconducting gap could be obtained. From heat capacity
measurements, 2λ(0)/k_(B)T_(c) = 4.07 was obtained, [11] whereas ARPES
yielded 2λ(0)/k_(B)T_(c) = 4.2.10 The average effective gap can be
obtained from our results by equating volumes of the spheroidal gap and
a sphere, Δ_(eff) = Δ_(ab)(0)(1 − ε)^(−1/6). This gives
2λ_(eff)(0)/k_(B)T_(c) = 4.22 for samples with T_(c) = 6.2 K and
2λ_(eff)(0)/k_(B)T_(c) = 3.66 for samples with T_(c) = 7.3 K which is in
the correct range of reported values and our earlier fits using Eq. (2).
All these values should be compared to the weak-coupling isotropic
result of 2λ(0)/k_(B)T_(c) = 3.53.

For all samples studied, we find that the temperature dependencies of
both in-plane and out-of-plane superfluid density are fully consistent
with single-gap anisotropic s-wave superconductivity. The gap magnitude
in the ab plane is close to the weak-coupling BCS value while the c axis
values are somewhat larger. Our results suggest that scattering is not
responsible for the difference in T_(c). Scattering would lead to a
suppression of the gap anisotropy. [22] The gap with average value Δ⃗ and
variation δΔ on the Fermi surface can only survive if
$\hbar\,\tau^{-1}\ll\sqrt[3]{\vec{\Delta}}\,\delta\Delta$, where τ is
the impurity scattering rate. [22] The values of resistivity are very
close for both high- and low-T_(c) samples (45 and 33 μΩ cm,
respectively); see Fig. 1, the qualitative trend in anisotropy is just
opposite. Also, 15

Measurements of the field dependence of the penetration depth in the
vortex state also show a difference between the two sets of samples, as
do measurements taken with different field orientations relative to the
c axis. Of particular interest is the variation of the second critical
field and the so-called peak effect. [9, 14, 15, 17, 18] Tunnel-diode
studies of these properties will be reported elsewhere.

We would like to thank Vladimir Kogan and Jules Carbotte for helpful
discussions related to the connection between measured London
penetration depth, anisotropy, strong coupling, and two-band
superconductivity. Ames Laboratory is operated for the U.S. Department
of Energy by Iowa State University under Contract No. W-7405-ENG-82.

Figure 4: (Color online) Superfluid densities for the higher T_(c) =7.3
K samples showing an apparent reduction of the gap anisotropy compared
to Fig. 3. The inset compares a cross section of the gap amplitude for
the two cases.

Figure 3: (Color online) Two components of the superfluid density for
samples with T_(c) = 6.2 K. Symbols show measured data and solid lines
show corresponding full 3D fitting. The dashed line shows an isotropic
s-wave BCS result. The inset shows an ellipsoidal gap that describes
both curves.

This work was supported in part by the Director for Energy Research,
Office of Basic Energy Sciences and in part by NSF Grant No.
DMR-0603841. R.P. acknowledges support from the Alfred P. Sloan
Foundation. R.W.G. and T.A.O. acknowledge support from the National
Science Foundation, Contract No. DMR 05-03882. K.U. and T.T. acknowledge
support by a Grant-in-aid from the Ministry of Education, Culture,
Sports, Science, and Technology.

## References

* [1] T. Muranaka, Y. Zenitani, J. Shimoyama, and J. Akimitsu, Frontiers
in Superconducting Materials, 937 (2005). * [2] P. C. Canfield, and S.
Bud’ko, Sci. Am. **292**, 80 (2005). * [3] F. Bouquet, Y. Wang, R. A.
Fisher, D. G. Hinks, J. D. Jorgensen, A. Junod, and N. E. Phillips,
Europhys. Lett. **56**, 856 (2001). * [4] O. I. Bodak, E. I.
Gladyshevskii, O. S. Zarechnyuk, and E. E. Cherkashin, Visn. L’viv. Gos.
Univ. Ser. Khim. **8**, 75 (1965). * [5] M. Imai, K. Nishida, T. Kimura,
and H. Abe, Appl. Phys. Lett. **80**, 1019 (2002). * [6] I. I. Mazin and
D. A. Papaconstantopoulos, Phys. Rev. B **69**, 180512(R) (2004). * [7]
M. Giantomassi, L. Boeri, and G. B. Bachelet, Phys. Rev. B **72**,
224512 (2005). * [8] S. Kuroiwa, H. Takagiwa, M. Yamazawa, J. Akimitsu,
K. Ohishi, A. Koda, W. Higemoto, and R. Kadono, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn.
**73**, 2631 (2004). * [9] A. K. Ghosh, Y. Hiraoka, M. Tokunaga, and T.
Tamegai, Phys. Rev. B **68**, 134503 (2003). * [10] S. Tsuda, T. Yokoya,
S. Shin, M. Imai, and I. Hase, Phys. Rev. B **69**, 100506(R) (2004). *
[11] B. Lorenz, J. Cmaidalka, R. L. Meng, and C. W. Chu, Phys. Rev. B
**68**, 014512 (2003). * [12] M. Imai, El Hadi, S. Sadki, H. Abe, K.
Nishida, T. Kimura, T. Sato, K. Hirata, and H. Kitazawa, Phys. Rev. B
**68**, 064512 (2003). * [13] H. Sagayama, Y. Wakabayashi, H. Sawa, T.
Kamiyama, A. Hoshikawa, S. Harjo, K. Uozato, A. K. Ghosh, M. Tokunaga,
and T. Tamegai, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **75**, 043713 (2006). * [14] T.
Tamegai, K. Uozato, A. K. Ghosh, and M. Tokunaga, Int. J. Mod. Phys. B
**19**, 369 (2004). * [15] T. Tamegai, Z. Shi, A. K. Pradhan, H.
Nakamura, A. K. Ghosh, M. Tokunaga, Y. Takano, K. Togano, H. Kito, and
H. Ihara, J. Low Temp. Phys. **131**, 1153 (2003). * [16] R. Prozorov,
R. W. Giannetta, A. Carrington, and F. M. Araujo-Moreira, Phys. Rev. B
**62**, 115 (2000). * [17] A. K. Ghosh, Y. Hiraoka, M. Tokunaga, and T.
Tamegai, Physica C **392-396**, 29 (2003). * [18] A. K. Ghosh, M.
Tokunaga, and T. Tamegai, Phys. Rev. B **68**, 054507 (2003). * [19] P.
A. Mansky, P. M. Chaikin, and R. C. Haddon, Phys. Rev. B **50**, 15929
(1994). * [20] B. S. Chandrasekhar and D. Einzel, Ann. Phys. **2**, 535
(1993). * [21] I. R. Shein, N. I. Medvedeva, and A. L. Ivanovskii, J.
Phys.: Condens. Matter **15**, L541 (2003). * [22] I. I. Mazin, O. K.
Andersen, O. Jepsen, A. A. Golubov, O. V. Dolgov, and J. Kortus, Phys.
Rev. B **69**, 056501 (2004).
