# Threshold for superconductivity in ultrathin amorphous gallium films

H. M. Jaeger, D. B. Haviland, and A. M. Goldman

School of Physics and Astronomy, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis,
Minnesota 55455

B. G. Orr

IBM Thomas J. Watson Research Center, Yorktown Heights, New York 10598

23 July 1986

###### Abstract

Systematic studies of the onset of superconductivity in ultrathin
amorphous Ga films have revealed the existence of a threshold dependent
only on the normal-state sheet resistance. Global superconductivity, or
zero resistance, develops only when the normal-state sheet resistance
falls below 6000 O/d. This result agrees with previous observations on
crystalline Sn films and further supports the notion of a universal
resistance threshold.

In a recent Letter[1] we reported that the condition for the onset of
superconductivity in ultrathin Sn films appeared to depend only on their
sheet resistances in the normal state, with a threshold occurring when
they fell below about 6000 O/d. This conclusion resulted from
investigations[2] in which the evolution of the electrical properties of
films were studied using a technique in which small amounts of
additional material could be added to a surface effectively building up
a continuous film from isolated metallic clusters on the substrate. The
apparatus[3] used to do this permitted studies of electrical properties
to be carried out between successive depositions. Using increments of
thickness which were at most 0.2 A, it was observed that the last film
exhibiting finite resistance at low temperature had a normal-state
resistance of the order of 7 to 8 kO/d whereas the first superconducting
film had a normal-state resistance of 4 to 5 kO/d. The pairs of
normal-state resistances for seven sets of films appeared to bracket
6000 kO/d. This apparent threshold for superconductivity was found at
different nominal thicknesses, ranging from about 10 A to more than 100
A. This implies that the details of the film geometry, and in particular
intercluster capacitance were not relevant variables in determining the
onset of global superconductivity. The existence of superconductivity at
low temperature seemed to depend only on the sheet resistance in the
normal state.

The above remarkable result has been explained at least qualitatively in
a number of related ways. An ultrathin film can be modeled as a network
of metallic clusters coupled by Josephson tunneling junctions, and the
existence of a resistance threshold for superconductivity in a junction
will translate into a threshold for the entire network using an argument
espoused by Ambegaokar, Halperin, and Langer.[4] The use of this
argument does not mean we regard the film as actually reducing to a
single junction. Junction threshold conditions which depend principally
on their normal tunneling resistance can be derived in the overdamped
limit of the resistively shunted junction (RSJ) model.[1, 5, 6, 7, 8]
The relevant physical processes involve quantum fluctuations of the
order-parameter phase difference in the presence of dissipation. The
condition for superconductivity requires the localization of the phase
difference across the junction, in one of the minima of the washboard
potential of the RSJ model. Such a localization will occur when the
normal-state resistance falls below a value of order _h_/_e_2. In an
analysis which goes beyond a single-junction picture, Chakravarty,
Ingold, Kivelson, and Luther[9] have shown that the threshold can be
understood in terms of a dissipation-driven phase transition involving
an array of junctions. Central to all of these explanations is the
coupling of the macroscopic quantum-mechanical degree of freedom of the
junction to dissipation.[10]

In this Communication we report an extension of our previous
experimental work on Sn films[1] to films of Ga. With refinements in the
experimental technique, our Ga data further support the notion that a
sheet resistance very close to _p_/2(_h_/_e_2) in the normal state is
indeed a threshold normal resistance above which global
superconductivity is not found. As in our previous discussions of this
subject, we make an important distinction between global
superconductivity, where the sample resistance is measured to be zero
within experimental accuracy, and local superconductivity where there is
evidence of change in the behavior of the system related to
superconductivity, e.g., the occurrence of a minimum in the resistance
versus temperature, _R_(_T_). Because the Ga films of the present work
are amorphous,[11] the results of the measurements may be used to
clarify the role of localization and interaction effects in setting the
threshold for the appearance of zero resistance or global
superconductivity.

Gallium films were formed by evaporation onto glazed alumina substrates
held at a temperature of less than 18 K in a vacuum of less than 3 x
10-10 Torr. The technique of studying the thickness dependence of
low-temperature properties was refined to a level at which it was
possible to deposit material in amounts corresponding to nominal
thickness increments of 0.05 A. As in previous experiments electrical
measurements as a function of temperature and magnetic field were
carried out between successive depositions of material. In contrast to
the studies which were carried out on Sn films where the temperature did
not go below 2.0 K, for the work on Ga the lowest temperature was 0.7 K.

Figure 1 shows the evolution of _R_(_T_) of a Ga film with increasing
nominal thickness. It contains the first 24 of more than 50 traces
spanning five decades of normal-state -sheet resistance. With the
exception of the top three traces which span a range of thickness from
12.2 to 12.95 A, the increments of thickness between traces are between
0.05 and 0.1 A. Measurements were carried out inside a magnetic shield
which reduced the ambient field to a maximum of 0.01 G. The features of
the transition in Ga greatly resemble those of Sn films reported earlier
[1, 2] with a number of important differences. In the previous work on
high-resistance Sn films, R(T) increased sharply with decreasing
temperature apparently without limit, whereas in the present studies on
Ga films R(T) appears to flatten out at the lowest temperatures even
when there is a minimum. These results suggest that the picture of
quasireentrant behavior being caused by the freezing out of
quasiparticle tunneling channels at the lowest temperatures [2] may have
to be modified in some manner. Figure 1 shows that this minimum
eventually gives way to a flat, temperature-independent tail as more
material is added.

The data, in particular the observation of finite resistance tails,
suggest another method of characterizing the onset of superconductivity
as the thickness of a film is increased and its normal sheet resistance
decreases. In Fig. 2, $\log R_{\rm C}$ (0.7 K) is plotted as a function
of $\log R_{\rm C}$ (14.0 K), the latter being "defined" as the
normal-state resistance. The resultant curve is a straight line until
the 14 K value of the resistance is the order of 10 kΩ/Ω at which point
the 0.7 K value of the resistance drops sharply with further decrease in
the 14 K resistance. The asymptotic value of the high-temperature
resistance as the low-temperature resistance falls by many orders of
magnitude is very close to h/4e² or π/2(h/e²).

These measurements in essence bridge the gap between the resistances in
the normal state corresponding to a finite low-temperature resistance,
and those corresponding to zero resistance which were shown in Ref. [1].
An onset resistance of the value displayed in Fig. 2 has been found in
two different series of Ga films. In the other film the onset of
superconductivity occurred at a nominal thickness of roughly 120 A, in
contrast to the 14.5 A value for the data of Fig. 2. This difference
implies rather different geometries for the two films at the critical
resistance for superconductivity.

The fact that the onset of superconductivity is found at the same normal
sheet resistance for rather different materials, amorphous Ga and
crystalline Sn, over a substantial range of thicknesses, strongly
suggests that there is a universal resistance threshold independent of
both chemical and also geometrical parameters such as the sheet
capacitance. As was mentioned above, the various models which exhibit a
resistance-dependent threshold imply that the (inter-) cluster
capacitance must be small. Although we have not measured the capacitance
directly, the fact that the resistance threshold occurs for different
effective

Figure 1: Evolution of the resistive transition $R_{\rm C}(T)$ for a Ga
film. The thickness increments between traces are typically 0.05–0.1 Å.
Shown are the first 24 of more than 50 traces spanning five decades of
normal-state resistances.

Figure 2: Low-temperature resistance $R_{\rm C}$(0.7 K) vs normal-state
resistance $R_{\rm C}$(14.0 K). $R_{\rm C}$(0.7 K) has dropped several
orders of magnitude when global superconductivity sets in at
 ∼ π/2(h/e²).

thicknesses and thus different aspect ratios of the clusters which
constitute the films strongly suggests that capacitance is not a
relevant variable.

In our previously reported work on Sn films [1, 2] it appeared as if
localization and related interaction effects were essentially unrelated
to the threshold condition for superconductivity. Furthermore, there was
no significant reduction of T_(c) with increasing sheet resistance. In
addition, there was no significant magnetoresistance at low fields.
These results would appear to be in conflict with previous experimental
and theoretical studies of the interplay between disorder and
superconductivity in thin films. [12, 13, 14] The absence of
magnetoresistance could be consistent either with an extremely short
inelastic scattering length, or with no localization effects at all. The
fact that T_(c) for Sn was not reduced substantially even in high sheet
resistance films supports the latter. This is in contrast with the work
of White, Dynes, and Garno [14] in which substantial magnetoresistance
was observed in Sn films which were also deposited onto low-temperature
substrates. The difference between the behavior of those films and the
ones of our previous investigations must be the length scale of
disorder, our Sn films being disordered on a larger length scale than
those of White _et al._

The studies of Ga films appear to provide an example of a situation in
which the metal is disordered on a relatively short length scale. The
reason for this is that Ga films deposited onto substrates held at low
temperatures are known to be amorphous. [11] Indeed the identification
of an amorphous phase is associated with a specific value of the
superconducting transition temperature of 8.4 K. The various crystalline
phases of Ga become superconducting at significantly lower temperatures.

The systematic variation of the transition temperature with sheet
resistance in Ga films is of considerable interest in its own right. In
Fig. 3 we plot the local transition temperature T_(cL), arbitrarily
defined to be the 50

The models used to explain a resistance threshold actually do not
address the issue of whether there is microscopic disorder within the
clusters of a film which might reduce the magnitude of their transition
temperature. The issues of the onset of zero electrical resistance and
the depression of the transition temperature may have different physical
origins. That is, although the depression of the transition temperature
of a cluster depends upon the degree of microscopic disorder within it,
as long as the latter does not completely depress local
superconductivity, the condition for the occurrence of zero resistance
at low temperature (global superconductivity) is determined only by the
normal-state sheet resistance.

In summary, we have investigated the onset of superconductivity in
ultrathin Ga films and found that it occurs only when the normal sheet
resistance falls below a threshold which is close to π/2(h/e²). This
result confirms a conclusion drawn from previous measurements on Sn
films and is consistent with measurements on other thin film systems.
The fact that superconductivity has been taken to be the condition under
which the resistance of the films is not measurable does not necessarily
imply that a phase transition of the Kosterlitz-Thouless type [17] has
actually taken place. Elucidation of the nature of the transition, if
one actually occurs, would require extensive study of the I-V
characteristics of the films which is currently underway and will be
reported elsewhere.

The authors would like to thank Professor S. Chakravarty and Dr. J
Gordon and Dr. J. Maps for many discussions. This work was supported in
part by the Low-Temperature Physics Program of the National Science
Foundation under Grant No. NSF/DMR-8503085 and by the Microelectronic
and Information Sciences Center of the University of Minnesota.

Figure 3: The local transition temperature T_(cL) as defined by
R_(□)(T_(cL)) =0.5R_(□) (14 K) vs normal-state resistance R_(□)(14 K).
The roll-off at high sheet resistances is a consequence of applying this
definition of T_(cL) to traces of R_(□)(T) which exhibit a local
minimum.

* [19] B. G. Orr, H. M. Jaeger, A. M. Goldman, and C. G. Kuper, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **56**, 378 (1986). * [20] B. G. Orr, H. M. Jaeger, and A. M.
Goldman, Phys. Rev. B **32**, 7586 (1985). * [21] B. G. Orr and A. M.
Goldman, Rev. Sci. Instrum. **56**, 1288 (1985). * [22] V. Ambegaokar,
B. I. Halperin, and J. S. Langer, Phys. Rev. B **4**, 2612 (1971); D.
Berman, B. G. Orr, H. M. Jaeger, and A. M. Goldman, _ibid._**33**, 4301
(1986). * [23] A. Schmid, Phys. Rev. Lett. **51**, 1506 (1983). * [24]
C. G. Kuper, M. Revzen, and A. Ron (unpublished). * [25] M. P. A.
Fisher, Phys. Rev. Lett. **57**, 895 (1986). * [26] B. G. Orr, J. R.
Clem, H. M. Jaeger, and A. M. Goldman, Phys. Rev. B **34**, 3491
(1986). * [27] S. Chakravarty, G.-L. Ingold, S. Kivelson, and A. Luther,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **56**, 2303 (1986). * [28] A. O. Caldeira and A. J.
Leggett, Ann. Phys. (N.Y.) **149**, 374 (1983); **153**, 445(E)
(1984). * [29] W. Buckel and R. Hilsch, Z. Phys. **138**, 109 (1954); D.
G. Naugle, R. E. Glover III, and W. Moormann, Physica **55**, 250
(1971). * [30] J. M. Graybeal and M. R. Beasley, Phys. Rev. B **29**,
4167 (1984). * [31] A. F. Hebard and G. A. Paalanen, Phys. Rev. B
**30**, 4063 (1984). * [32] A. E. White, R. C. Dynes, and J. P. Garno,
Phys. Rev. B **33**, 3549 (1986). * [33] S. I. Park and T. H. Geballe,
Physica B **135**, 108 (1985). * [34] Y. Imry and M. Strongin, Phys.
Rev. B **24**, 6353 (1981). * [35] J. M. Kosterlitz and D. J. Thouless,
J. Phys. C **6**, 1181 (1973).
