# Superconductivity and multiple pressure-induced phases in BaPt₂As₂

C. Y. Guo

W. B. Jiang

M. Smidman

F. Han

M. S. Halliaka

B. Shen

Y. F. Wang

Y. Chen

Center for Correlated Matter and Department of Physics, Zhejiang
University, Hangzhou 310058, China Materials Science Division, Argonne
National Laboratory, Argonne, Illinois 60439, USA HPSynC, Geophysical
Laboratory, Carnegie Institution of Washington, Argonne, Illinois 60439,
USA Center for High Pressure Science and Technology Advanced Research,
Beijing 100094, People’s Republic of China

Department of Chemistry, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois
60208, USA

Collaborative Innovation Center of Advanced Microstructures, Nanjing
210093, China

###### Abstract

The recently discovered BaPt₂As₂ shows a structural distortion at around
275 K, followed by the emergence of superconductivity at lower
temperatures. Here we identify the presence of charge-density-wave order
at room temperature and ambient pressure using single-crystal x-ray
diffraction, with both a superlattice and an incommensurate modulation,
where there is a change of the superlattice structure below ≃275 K. Upon
applying pressure, BaPt₂As₂ shows a rich temperature-pressure phase
diagram with multiple pressure-induced transitions at high temperatures,
the emergence of disappearance of which are correlated with sudden
changes in the superconducting transition temperature T_(c). These
findings demonstrate that BaPt₂As₂ is a promising system for studying
competing interactions and the relationship between high-temperature
electronic instabilities and superconductivity.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.94.184506

184506

## I Introduction

The presence of competing interactions and multiple electronic
instabilities often leads to emergent phenomena and new phases. In
particular, the complex relationship between superconductivity and
magnetic or charge order has attracted considerable interest. In many of
the high-temperature iron-pnictide superconductors, the
superconductivity occurs in the vicinity of spin-density-wave (SDW)
order [1, 2]. Meanwhile, upon applying pressure to the heavy-fermion
superconductor CeCu₂Si₂[3], evidence was found of superconductivity
being in close proximity to multiple instabilities, with one
superconducting dome in the vicinity of magnetic order and another near
a possible valence instability [4, 5, 6]. The interplay between
charge-density-wave (CDW) order and superconductivity has also been of
particular interest recently [7, 8], mainly due to the coexistence of
these competing phases in some systems, with a similar phase diagram to
systems with SDW and superconductivity [9], as well as the observation
of CDW in high-temperature cuprate superconductors. In the cuprates, the
role of CDW order in the formation of superconductivity remains a
central and open issue [10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15], but the microscopic
relationship is still unresolved.

Structural distortions have also been found to occur in various
iron-based superconductors [16]. For instance, upon lowering the
temperature of electron-doped BaFe₂As₂, the symmetry of the crystal
lattice is reduced from the fourfold symmetry of the ThCr₂Si₂ structure
to a twofold symmetric orthorhombic structure, while SDW ordering onsets
at lower temperatures [17, 18]. There is an increasing body of evidence
that this distortion does not arise due to phonons [19], but is from an
electronic instability, the nematic order, which may be driven by either
spin or orbital fluctuations [20]. The suppression of both nematicity
and SDW ordering in the region of the superconducting dome again
indicates the importance of understanding the relationship between the
various ordered phases and the underlying interactions. On the other
hand, there also exist some non-iron-based 122 pnictide superconductors
RT₂Pn₂ (R= Ba or Sr, T denotes transition metal, and Pn denotes
pnictogen) that undergo structural distortions upon cooling [21, 22,
23]. A comparison with the iron-based materials may provide crucial
insights into the roles of various interactions and the resulting
collective phenomena.

Unlike the 122 iron-pnictide superconductors, which crystallize in the
ThCr₂Si₂ structure (I4/mmm), SrPt₂As₂ forms in the CaBe₂Ge₂-type
structure (P4/nmm) at high temperatures. Both are layered tetragonal
structures, but they have different stacking of the layers of transition
metal and As atoms along the c axis. A further difference from the iron
pnictides is that in the Pt-based materials, spin fluctuations are not
generally expected to play a significant role. Below T_(CDW) = 470 K,
the crystal structure of SrPt₂As₂ undergoes an orthorhombic distortion
and CDW ordering [24, 25, 26, 27], with a superconducting transition at
a lower temperature of 5.2 K [22]. Similarly, in the newly discovered
BaPt₂As₂ with a resistive transition at T_(c) = 1.67 K [28], a
first-order phase transition appears at about 275 K, at which a
structural phase transition from the tetragonal CaBe₂Ge₂-type structure
to an orthorhombic structure was found using powder x-ray diffraction
(XRD) [28]. In this article, we demonstrate using single-crystal XRD
measurements that a CDW state already exists at room temperature in
BaPt₂As₂, and the structural transition at T₁ ≃ 275 K corresponds to a
change in the CDW superlattice. To study the relationship between
superconductivity and the CDW state, we performed resistivity
measurements under pressure, which reveal a rich temperature-pressure
phase diagram with multiple pressure-induced transitions, the emergence
of which are correlated with sudden changes in T_(c).

## II Experimental Methods

Single crystals of BaPt₂As₂ were synthesized using a self-flux method
described in Ref. [28]. Resistivity measurements under pressure were
carried out using a piston-cylinder-type pressure cell up to 27 kbar,
and Daphne 7373 was used as the pressure-transmitting medium to ensure
hydrostaticity. The applied pressure was determined by the shift in
T_(c) of a high-quality Pb single crystal. Measurements were performed
using a Physical Property Measurement System (Quantum Design PPMS-14T)
in the temperature range of 2-300 K, while measurements from 0.3 to 5 K
were performed using a ³He refrigerator. Single-crystal XRD from room
temperature to 100 K was carried out on a STOE IPDS II diffractometer at
the Argonne National Laboratory, using an Mo source (λ = 0.710 73 A).
Reciprocal space reconstruction of the single-crystal XRD data was
performed with the software x-area.

## III Results

### Single-crystal x-ray diffraction

A simulation of the diffraction peaks in the (hk0) plane for the
tetragonal CaBe₂Ge₂-type structure (P4/nmm) is shown in Fig. 1(a), while
the reciprocal space reconstruction of single-crystal XRD data at 300
and 100 K is shown in Figs. 1(b) and 1(c), respectively. Reflections are
labeled with the Miller indices of the CaBe₂Ge₂-type structure (P4/nmm).

In the previous powder XRD measurements [28], we reported a structural
phase transition at 275 K from a tetragonal CaBe₂Ge₂-type structure to
an orthorhombic one. Based on the current single-crystal XRD results, it
should be noted that neither the reflections at 300 K nor those at 100 K
could be satisfactorily indexed with a perfect CaBe₂Ge₂-type crystal
structure. From comparing the experimental data at both 300 and 100 K
with the simulated reflections, we observe a number of additional peaks
arising from complex CDW modulations. If we index the single-crystal XRD
data by introducing an orthorhombic distortion, the lattice parameters
at 300 K are a = 4.5608(10) A, b = 4.5643(12) A, and c = 10.0420(20) A,
while at 100 K they are a = 4.5489(9) A, b = 4.5700(11) A, and c =
10.0192(22) A. These results indicate that even at room temperature, the
CDW modulations induce a small difference in a and b, which becomes
larger below 280 K. Subsequent analysis of the data at 300 K reveals
peaks corresponding to 2 x 2 x 2 superlattice structure, where the unit
cell is doubled in all directions, along with an incommensurate
modulation q¹ = (0.1,0.3,0). Reflections that are forbidden for the
CaBe₂Ge₂-type structure, such as (1,0,0) and (0,1,0), and the
half-fractional peaks such as (−1/2, −1/2,0) arise from the 2 x 2 x
superlattice structure, while the peaks at the position of (0.1,0.3,0)
around the superlattice peaks arise from the incommensurate modulation.
A comparison of the data from 300 to 285 K shows no change in the
structure of BaPt₂As₂. From 280 to 100 K, BaPt₂As₂ enters a new phase in
which the symmetry further lowers to a 6 x 6 x 2 superlattice structure
while the incommensurate modulation q¹ remains the same, as indicated by
the appearance of new fractional peaks such as (2/3,0,0) and (0,2/3,0).
Therefore, these results demonstrate that the CDW state is already
present at room temperature, but there is a change in CDW structure
below 280 K, along with an increased orthorhombic distortion.

### Resistivity under pressure

The temperature-pressure phase diagram of BaPt₂As₂ was determined by
measuring the resistivity under pressure. As shown in Fig. 2(a), at p =
3 kbar there is a sudden increase of the resistivity upon cooling at
about T₁ ≃ 250 K, which is similar to the previously reported results at
ambient pressure [28], and it corresponds to a change of the CDW
structure. With increasing pressure, the temperature of this transition
decreases before abruptly disappearing above p₁ ≃ 7 kbar. After T₁
disappears, a new transition labeled T₂ is observed, where there is only
a small anomaly in the resistivity and little change with increasing
pressure. For pressures greater than p₂ ≃ 17 kbar, T₂ disappears and two
new transitions

Figure 1: Reciprocal space reconstruction of single-crystal XRD. (a)
Simulated diffraction peaks in the (hk0) plane of reciprocal space for
the CaBe₂Ge₂-type structure. Reciprocal space reconstruction of the
single-crystal XRD data collected at (b) 300 K and (c) 100 K. At 300 K,
other than the simulated peaks of the CaBe₂Ge₂-type structure, there are
satellite peaks which can be indexed with a 2 × 2 × 2 superlattice and
an incommensurate modulation with a propagation vector q_(i) =
(0.1,0.3,0). At 100 K, additional satellite peaks corresponding to a 6 ×
6 × 2 superlattice are observed.

emerge at T₃ and T₄, with the former corresponding to an increase of the
resistivity upon cooling, while the latter shows a sudden decrease.
These transitions have a different pressure dependence, with the lower
transition T₃ being rapidly suppressed with increasing pressure while T₄
increases with pressure. Note that apart from T₂, all the transitions
display pronounced hysteresis, as shown in Figs. 2(b)-2(d), indicating a
first-order nature. It can also be seen that there is an increase in
resistivity at T₁ and T₃ while it drops at T₄.

Figure 3(a) displays the resistivity under pressure at low temperatures
in the vicinity of the superconducting transitions. At ambient pressure,
T_(c) is about 1.6 K, determined from where the resistivity reaches 50

Figure 5(a) displays the temperature-pressure phase diagram obtained
from resistivity measurements. Two abrupt enhancements of T_(c) occur
under pressure, both of which clearly coincide with changes in the
high-temperature phase transitions. At p₁ ≃ 7 kbar, the CDW transition
at T₁ disappears and a new transition T₂ is observed. This change is
accompanied by an enhancement of T_(c). Upon further increasing the
applied pressure, there is little change of T₂ up to p₂ ≃ 17 kbar, where
the transition at T₂ is no longer observed

Figure 4: Resistivity as a function of T² at several pressures with the
residual values ρ₀ subtracted. The solid lines show fits to a ∼T²
dependence in the normal state.

Figure 3: (a) Resistivity of BaPt₂As₂ at various pressures, near the
superconducting transition. (b) The upper critical field (H_(c2)) of
BaPt₂As₂ as a function of T/T_(c) at various pressures, normalized by
the product of T_(c) and the slope of H_(c2) near T_(c).

Figure 2: (a) Temperature dependence of the resistivity of BaPt₂As₂ at
various pressures. The different high-temperature transitions are
denoted by T₁, T₂, T₃, and T₄. The resistivity upon warming and cooling
is shown in the vicinity of (b) T₁ at 4 kbar, (c) T₂ at 9 kbar, and (d)
T₃ and T₄ at 17 kbar. In (c) the derivative dρ/dT is also shown by the
solid line, which shows a clear change at T₂.

and two new phase transitions emerge. The transition at T₃ decreases
with increasing pressure before being suppressed at less than 22 kbar,
while T₄ increases with pressure, reaching 290 K at 24 kbar. The
appearance of these transitions is accompanied by another pronounced
enhancement of T_(c) by almost a factor of 2. The critical pressure for
the emergence of T₃ and T₄ is slightly lower than that corresponding to
the jump in T_(c). This may be due to the variation in the pressure
transmitted by the Daphne 7373 medium with temperature, which can cause
a pressure decrease of around 1-2 kbar between 300 K and low
temperatures [30]. Furthermore, the results from fitting the resistivity
in the normal state are shown in Fig. 5(b). Each steplike increase of
T_(c) coincides with a drop in ρ₀, with a small decrease at the
disappearance of T₁ and a larger drop at the emergence of T₃ and T₄.
Meanwhile, the resistivity coefficient A undergoes a sharp drop at p₁
followed by a sudden increase at p₂. Furthermore, neither ρ₀ nor A
displays any noticeable anomaly upon the disappearance of the transition
at T₃.

## IV Discussion and Summary

The above results demonstrate an intricate relationship between the
superconductivity and the high-temperature transitions in BaPt₂As₂. The
nature of the transitions at T₂, T₃, and T₄ is yet to be uncovered. In
comparison, SrPt₂As₂ undergoes a structural phase transition below
$T_{\rm CDW}=470$ K, from a tetragonal to orthorhombic structure [25],
with two incommensurate CDW modulations emerging [24, 26]. However, in
BaPt₂As₂ at ambient pressure the orthorhombic distortion and CDW
modulation already exist above T₁, and this transition corresponds to a
change of the periodicity of the superlattice. Furthermore, there is a
sudden increase in the resistivity at T₁ as in the case of the
structural transition in SrNi₂P₂[31], whereas there is a drop in the
resistivity at $T_{\rm CDW}$ in SrPt₂As₂. However, the behavior of
BaPt₂As₂ above 22 kbar more strongly resembles that of SrPt₂As₂, since
we observe a drop in the resistivity at T₄ and there is a comparable
value of T_(c).

If then the transition under pressure at T₄ is similar to that of
SrPt₂As₂ at ambient pressure, the differences in the CDW modulation and
high-temperature crystal structures may explain the different behavior
of the resistivity seen at T₁ and T₄. This suggests the possibility that
the CDW state below T₁ disappears at p₁, above which only a weak anomaly
at T₂ is observed. Furthermore, it is not clear whether the CDW state
observed at ambient pressure and room temperature persists upon the
application of pressure, and it may be that the transition at T₂ lies
beneath a CDW transition at higher temperatures. At p₂, a different CDW
state may emerge. However, while CDW states generally compete with
superconductivity, in this instance the emergence of the transition at
T₄ leads to a significant enhancement of T_(c), rather than a decrease.
The dramatic change in both ρ₀ and the A coefficient at p₂ suggests that
this may correspond to a sudden change in the electronic structure and
Fermi surface topology. Such changes may lead to an enhanced density of
states, which in turn may cause the significant increase of T_(c) and A.

The transition at T₃, which appears under T₄ up to around 19 kbar, may
then correspond to a further lowering of the crystal symmetry or a
change in the modulation vector q of the CDW state. A change of q can
lead to different behavior of the resistivity since this changes the
reconstructed Fermi surface, with the CDW gap opening across different
regions. However, for these scenarios it would be unusual that there is
little change in T_(c) upon the disappearance of T₃. As previously
discussed, at ambient pressure there is a structural distortion at T₁
corresponding to a significantly increased orthorhombicity. Since both
T₃ and T₄ have a similar first-order nature, whether these transitions
correspond to changes in either the crystal symmetry or structural
parameters needs to be checked with XRD measurements under pressure. All
these results suggest the presence of both structural and electronic
instabilities in the temperature-pressure phase diagram. In light of the
recent evidence that the nematic order in the iron-pnictide-based
superconductors is driven by electronic rather than structural
instabilities [20], it will be of interest to determine whether any of
the transitions or structural changes in BaPt₂As₂ also have an
electronic origin. The relationship between the high-temperature
transitions and the superconductivity also needs to be further
investigated and compared to both the cuprate- and iron-based materials,
but the significantly lower values of T_(c) may be a result of the lack
of a spin fluctuation mediated pairing mechanism.

In conclusion, using single-crystal XRD measurements, we have identified
that a CDW state exists in BaPt₂As₂ in ambient conditions, and that the
transition at T₁ = 275 K corresponds to a change of the superlattice
structure. The application of pressure results in a rich phase diagram.
Pressure suppresses the CDW transition at T₁ until it disappears at
around p₁ = 7 kbar, which leads to an enhancement of T_(c). Upon further
increasing the pressure, new high-temperature transitions are observed
in the resistivity, which are correlated with an additional increase of
T_(c). Since these results indicate the presence of multiple
instabilities at high temperatures, BaPt₂As₂ may provide a platform for
studying the competition between different interactions and their
interplay with superconductivity. Further experiments such as NMR and
XRD under pressure, as well as theoretical calculations, are needed

Figure 5: (a) Temperature-pressure phase diagram of BaPt₂As₂ showing
both the high-temperature and superconducting transitions. (b) Pressure
dependence of the residual resistivity ρ₀ and A coefficient.

to characterize the origin of these transitions and elucidate the
mechanisms that lead to these exotic behaviors.

###### Acknowledgements.

We thank C. Cao for interesting discussions. The work at Zhejiang
University was supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of
China (Grants No. 11474251 and No. 11374257), the National Key R&D
Program of China (Grant No. 2016YFA0300202) and the Science Challenge
Program of China. The work at Argonne was supported by the Office of
Science, Office of Basic Energy Sciences, Division of Materials
Sciences, US Department of Energy, under Contract No. DE-AC02-06CH11357
(BES-DMSE).

## References

* [1] J. Paglione and R. L. Greene, High-temperature superconductivity
in iron-based materials, Nat. Phys. **6**, 645 (2010). * [2] X. H. Chen,
P. C. Dai, D. L. Feng, T. Xiang, and F.-C. Zhang, Iron-based high
transition temperature superconductors, Natl. Sci. Rev. **1**, 371
(2014). * [3] F. Steglich, J. Aarts, C. D. Bredl, W. Lieke, D. Meschede,
W. Franz, and H. Schafer, Superconductivity in the Presence of Strong
Pauli Paramagnetism: CeCu₂Si₂, Phys. Rev. Lett. **43**, 1892 (1979). *
[4] P. Gegenwart, C. Langhammer, C. Geibel, R. Helfrich, M. Lang, G.
Sparn, F. Steglich, R. Horn, L. Donnevert, A. Link, and W. Assmus,
Breakup of Heavy Fermions on the Brink of Phase A in CeCu₂Si₂, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **81**, 1501 (1998). * [5] H. Q. Yuan, F. M. Grosche, M.
Deppe, C. Geibel, G. Sparn, and F. Steglich, Observation of two distinct
superconducting phases in CeCu₂Si₂, Science **302**, 2104 (2003). * [6]
A. T. Holmes, D. Jaccard, and K. Miyake, Signatures of valence
fluctuations in CeCu₂Si₂ under high pressure, Phys. Rev. B **69**,
024508 (2004). * [7] For a review, see A. M. Gabovich, A. I. Voitenko,
and M. Ausloos, Charge- and spin-density waves in existing
superconductors: Competition between Cooper pairing and Peierls or
excitonic instabilities, Phys. Rep. **367**, 583 (2002). * [8] M.
Hoesch, X. Cui, K. Shimada, C. Battaglia, S. Fujimori, and H. Berger,
Splitting in the Fermi surface of ZrTe₃: A surface charge density wave
system, Phys. Rev. B **80**, 075423 (2009). * [9] E. Morosan, H. W.
Zandbergen, B. S. Dennis, J. W. G. Bos, Y. Onose, T. Klimczuk, A. P.
Ramirez, N. P. Ong, and R. J. Cava, Superconductivity in Cu_(x)TiSe₂,
Nat. Phys. **2**, 544 (2006). * [10] J. M. Tranquada, B. J. Sternlieb,
J. D. Axe, Y. Nakamura, and S. Uchida, Evidence for stripe correlations
of spins and holes in copper oxide superconductors, Nature (London)
**375**, 561 (1995). * [11] T. Wu, H. Mayaffre, S. Kramer, M. Horvatic,
C. Berthier, W. N. Hardy, R. Liang, D. A. Bonn, and M. Julien,
Magnetic-field-induced charge-stripe order in the high-temperature
superconductor YBa₂Cu₃O_(y), Nature (London) **477**, 191 (2011). * [12]
G. Ghiringhelli, M. Le Tacon, M. Minola, S. Blanco-Canosa, C. Mazzoli,
N. B. Brookes, G. M. De Luca, A. Frano, D. G. Hawthorn, F. He, T. Loew,
M. M. Sala, D. C. Peets, M. Salluzzo, E. Schierle, R. Sutarto, G. A.
Sawatzky, E. Weschke, B. Keimer, and L. Braicovich, Long-range
incommensurate charge fluctuations in (Y, Nd)Ba₂Cu₃O_(6 + x), Science
**337**, 821 (2012) * [13] R. Comin, R. Sutarto, F. He, E. H. da Silva
Neto, L. Chauviere, A. Frano, R. Liang, W. N. Hardy, D. A. Bonn, Y.
Yoshida, H. Eisaki, A. J. Achkar, D. G. Hawthorn, B. Keimer, G. A.
Sawatzky, and A. Damascelli, Symmetry of charge order in cuprates, Nat.
Mater. **14**, 796 (2015). * [14] Y. X. Wang and A. V. Chubukov,
Enhancement of superconductivity at the onset of charge-density-wave
order in a metal, Phys. Rev. B **92**, 125108 (2015). * [15] H. Freire,
V. S. de Carvalho, and C. Pepin, Renormalization group analysis of the
pair-density-wave and charge order within the fermionic hot-spot model
for cuprate superconductors, Phys. Rev. B **92**, 045132 (2015). * [16]
M. Rotter, M. Tegel, and D. Johrendt, Superconductivity at 38 K in the
Iron Arsenide (Ba_(1 − x)K_(x))Fe₂As₂, Phys. Rev. Lett. **101**, 107006
(2008). * [17] M. Yi, D. Lu, J. Chu, J. G. Analytis, A. P. Sorini, A. F.
Kemper, B. Moritz, S. Mo, R. G. Moore, M. Hashimoto, W. Lee, Z. Hussain,
T. P. Devereaux, I. R. Fisher, and Z. X. Shen, Symmetry-breaking orbital
anisotropy observed for detwinned Ba(Fe_(1 − x)Co_(x))₂As₂ above the
spin density wave transition, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. (USA) **108**, 6878
(2011). * [18] M. G. Kim, R. M. Fernandes, A. Kreyssig, J. W. Kim, A.
Thaler, S. L. Bud’ko, P. C. Canfield, R. J. McQueeney, J. Schmalian, and
A. I. Goldman, Character of the structural and magnetic phase
transitions in the parent and electron-doped BaFe₂As₂ compounds, Phys.
Rev. B **83**, 134522 (2011). * [19] J.-H. Chu, H.-H. Kuo, J. G.
Analytis, and I. R. Fisher, Divergent nematic susceptibility in an iron
arsenide superconductor, Science **337**, 710 (2012). * [20] R. M.
Fernandes, A. V. Chubukov, and J. Schmalian, What drives nematic order
in iron-based superconductors? Nat. Phys. **10**, 97 (2014). * [21] F.
Ronning, N. Kurita, E. D. Bauer, B. L. Scott, T. Park, T. Klimczuk, R.
Movshovich, and J. D. Thompson, The first order phase transition and
superconductivity in BaNi₂As₂ single crystals, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter
**20**, 342203 (2008). * [22] K. Kudo, Y. Nishikubo, and M. Nohara,
Coexistence of superconductivity and charge density wave in SrPt₂As₂, J.
Phys. Soc. Jpn. **79**, 123710 (2010). * [23] M. Imai, S. Emura, M.
Nishio, Y. Matsushita, S. Ibuka, N. Eguchi, F. Ishikawa, Y. Yamada, T.
Muranaka, and J. Akimitsu, Superconductivity in 122 antimonide SrPt₂Sb₂,
Supercond. Sci. Technol. **26**, 075001 (2013). * [24] A. F. Fang, T.
Dong, H. P. Wang, Z. G. Chen, B. Cheng, Y. G. Shi, P. Zheng, G. Xu, L.
Wang, J. Q. Li, and N. L. Wang, Single-crystal growth and optical
conductivity of SrPt₂As₂ superconductors, Phys. Rev. B **85**, 184520
(2012). * [25] A. Imre, A. Hellmann, G. Wenski, J. Graf, D. Johrendt,
and A. Mewis, Modulated crystal structures and phase transitions–The
compounds SrPt₂As₂ and EuPt₂As₂, Z. Anorg. Allg. Chem. **633**, 2037
(2007). * [26] L. Wang, Z. Wang, H.-L. Shi, Z. Chen, F.-K. Chiang, H.-F.
Tian, H.-X. Yang, A.-F. Fang, N.-L. Wang, and J.-Q. Li, Two-coupled
structural modulations in charge-density-wave state of SrPt₂As₂
superconductor, Chin. Phys. B **23**, 086103 (2014). * [27] S. Kawasaki,
Y. Tani, T. Mabuchi, K. Kudo, Y. Nishikubo, D. Mitsuoka, M. Nohara, and
G. Q. Zheng, Coexistence of multiple charge-density waves and
superconductivity in SrPt₂As₂ revealed by ⁷⁵As-NMR/NQR and ¹⁹⁵Pt-NMR,
Phys. Rev. B **91**, 060510(R) (2015). * [28] W. B. Jiang, C. Y. Guo, Z.
F. Weng, Y. F. Wang, Y. H. Chen, Y. Chen, G. M. Pang, T. Shang, X. Lu,
and H. Q. Yuan, Superconductivity and structural distortion in BaPt₂As₂,
J. Phys.: Condens. Matter **27**, 022202 (2015). * [29] N. R. Werthamer,
E. Helfand, and P. C. Hohenberg, Temperature and purity dependence of
the superconducting critical field, H_(c2), III. Electron spin and
spin-orbit effects, Phys. Rev. **147**, 295 (1965). * [30] K. Murata, H.
Yoshino, H. O. Yadav, Y. Honda, and N. Shirakawa, Pt resistor
thermometry and pressure calibration in a clamped pressure cell with the
medium, Daphne 7373, Rev. Sci. Instrum. **68**, 2490 (1997). * [31] F.
Ronning, E. D. Bauer, T. Park, S.-H. Baek, H. Sakai, and J. D. Thompson,
Superconductivity and the effects of pressure and structure in
single-crystalline SrNi₂P₂, Phys. Rev. B **79**, 134507 (2009).
