Heat capacity and transport studies of the ferromagnetic superconductor
RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈

J. L. Tallon

Industrial Research Ltd., P.O. Box 31310, Lower Hutt, New Zealand

J. W. Loram

IRC in Superconductivity, Cambridge University, Cambridge CB3 0HE,
United Kingdom

G. V. M. Williams

Industrial Research Ltd., P.O. Box 31310, Lower Hutt, New Zealand

C. Bernhard

Max-Planck Institut fur Festkorperforschung, D-70596 Stuttgart, Germany

1 June 1999

###### Abstract

Resistivity, thermoelectric power, and heat capacity are investigated in
the ferromagnetic superconductor RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈ with and without Zn
substitution. The thermodynamic signatures of the ordering of the Ru
moments and the paramagnetic Gd moments as well as the onset of
superconductivity are all clearly seen and quantified. The materials are
shown to exhibit bulk superconductivity which coexists with spatially
uniform ferromagnetism. They appear to be typical underdoped
superconducting cuprates in which the pseudogap dominates normal-state
transport, thermodynamic, and substitutional properties. However, a
field-induced increase in T_(c) could suggest some degree of triplet
pairing.

The discovery[1, 2] of superconductivity (T_(c) = 18−46 K) coexisting
with spatially uniform ferromagnetism (T_(CCurie) = 132 K) in the hybrid
ruthenate-cuprate material RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈ (Ru-1212) presents a remarkable
new development in the study of competing magnetism and
superconductivity. This material allows in principle the study of
several competing magnetic and superconducting (SC) order parameters
including antiferromagnetic (AF) ordering of both the Gd and Cu moments,
ferromagnetic (FM) ordering of the Ru⁵⁺ moments and Cooper pairing of
the carriers on both the CuO₂ planes and RuO₂ planes. The pairing
interactions offer a further possibility of competing symmetries, d wave
on the CuO₂ planes and p wave on the RuO₂ planes.[3]

In most other systems where FM and SC order parameters are observed to
compete, uniform coexistence is not found. For example, ErRh₄B₄ exhibits
"reentrant" superconductivity[4] with a T_(c) onset at 8.7 K and a lower
critical temperature T_(c2) = 0.9 K, where the onset of uniform
ferromagnetism destroys the superconducting state. Between 0.9 and 1.5 K
FM and SC order parameters coexist but they accommodate by becoming
spatially modulated.[5] Similar behavior occurs in HoMo₅S₈.[6] In the
present Ru-1212 system the FM order parameter was shown to be spatially
uniform by muon spin relaxation (μSR) from the appearance of a single
well-defined precession frequency which fixes the magnitude of the local
field.[2] This conclusion was confirmed by electron spin resonance (ESR)
studies which showed the Gd-ESR line shifted uniformly by 600 G with no
broadening on cooling into the FM state.[7] Both the muon and Gd probes
indicate a spatially uniform local field _throughout the entire sample_.
This in itself is insufficient to infer microscopic coexistence of FM
and SC. As the latter might be confined to filaments or granular
surfaces, it remains to demonstrate bulk SC. The presence of bulk
impurities (> 1

The samples, from the same batch used in the μSR study, were prepared by
reacting stoichiometric RuO₂, SrCO₃, Gd₂O₃, and CuO first in flowing N₂
at 1010 K then successively in flowing O₂ at 1050 degC, 1055 degC, and
1060 degC. Samples were slow-cooled to room temperature after each 10 h
reaction, reground, and pelletized. This resulted in sample A. Scanning
electron micrographs showed that these samples have a high porosity with
a grain size of 0.5−2 μm. A further set of samples were then annealed at
1060 degC in flowing oxygen for 6 d. These samples, B, were tough and
dense with a grain size of 2−10 μm. X-ray-diffraction patterns for the
two samples were indistinguishable but high-resolution electron
microscopy[8] showed the presence of nanoscale twins in sample A which
were substantially absent in sample B. Further samples were reacted as
for sample B but with 0.5, 1, 2, and 3

Figure 1(a) shows the resistivity ρ(T) for samples A and B. The
resistivity of the unannealed sample shows a semiconducting upturn
starting at 100 K and a sharp fall to zero at about 20 K. The annealed
sample B has a much lower resistivity, a weaker semiconducting upturn,
and a higher

T_(c)(R = 0) value of about 36 K. Both samples exhibit a small downturn
in ρ(T) at T_(M), which McCrone _et al._[10] conclude reveals a small
amount of spin scattering arising from exchange interaction between the
moments and carriers in the RuO₂ planes in a scenario of itinerant
ferromagnetism. As shown by Pickett _et al._,[11] the exchange
interaction with carriers on the CuO₂ planes is weak because the Ru
moments arise in the t_(2g) band which couples only to the p_(x) and
p_(y) orbitals of the apical oxygen but not to Cu d_(x² − y²) or s
orbitals. The shape of ρ(T) shown in Fig. 1(a) is characteristic of an
underdoped cuprate and, in particular, exhibits the downward curvature
at 280 K indicative of the presence of the normal-state pseudogap.[12]
The question arises as to whether the upward shift in T_(c)(R = 0)
reflects an increase in doping state resulting from the long anneal. To
address this, we recall that the HTS cuprates exhibit a universal
correlation between the hole concentration p on the CuO₂ planes and the
thermopower S(T).[13]

Figure 1(b) shows the T dependence of S(T) for the two samples A and B.
The magnitude and shape is again typical of underdoped cuprates and,
neglecting any contribution from carriers on the RuO₂ planes, the
room-temperature value S(300) = 73μV/K for sample B indicates p ≈ 0.07
per Cu. This would suggest that, were the doping state to be increased
to optimal (p ≈ 0.16), the T_(c) value could be raised to about 100 K,
typical of two layer cuprates. The rather small shift in S(T) with the
long anneal suggests that there is little change in p with anneal, Δp
being less than 0.002. This is insufficient to explain the significant
rise in T_(c)(R = 0). Moreover, in both samples S(T) falls to zero at
temperatures 43-45 K, significantly higher than the T_(c)(R = 0) value
for either sample but close to the resistive onset at 46 K which is the
_same_ for both samples. As will be seen the thermodynamic SC transition
temperature is about 46 K. We conclude that these Ru-1212 samples are
quite granular so that the resistivity falls sharply with the onset of
superconductivity but does not reach zero until a much lower percolation
temperature. The granularity in Ru-1212 may be attributed to the high
density of 90^(∘)[100] rotation twins that mix the a and c axes[7]
causing pairbreaking along the twin boundaries. This proclivity for
twinning arises from the near equality of these axes (c = 3.01 × a).
With the long anneal in samples B, the twinning, and hence the
granularity, is substantially reduced but not eliminated. The
thermopower, in contrast to the resistivity, is much less sensitive to
granularity[14] and thus falls to zero close to the thermodynamic T_(c).

Figure 2(a) shows ρ(T) for the Zn-substituted Ru-1212 samples. Here the
small fraction of Zn rapidly suppresses superconductivity, displaces the
curves at first upwards in parallel according to Mathiessen’s rule and
causes a developing semiconducting upturn in the resistivity. The rapid
suppression of SC is again typical of an underdoped cuprate reflecting
the strongly depleted density of states near the Fermi level due to the
presence of the pseudogap.[15] At the same time the thermopower shown in
Fig. 2(b) is little altered by Zn substitution (and certainly not in a
systematic fashion) except that superconductivity is progressively
suppressed. We thus infer that the doping state is not significantly
altered with Zn substitution as is also the case for other HTS
cuprates.[16] The 3

By annealing samples at progressively higher temperatures then quenching
into liquid nitrogen one may explore variation in oxygen stoichiometry
in the SC and the normal-state (NS) properties. A series of such
experiments were carried out on a sample A. Curves of ρ(T) for different
annealing conditions are shown in the inset to Fig. 3. The resistivity
is progressively increased, the semiconducting upturn enhanced and
T_(c)(R = 0) is quite slowly shifted down. However, these changes are
due simply to increasing granularity and the plots of dp/dT shown in the
main panel of Fig. 3 indicate that the superconducting onset at the
thermodynamic transition temperature is unaltered by these anneals. The

Figure 1: (a) T dependence of the resistivity for as-prepared (A) and
6-d annealed (B) samples of Ru-1212. (b) The T dependence of the
thermopower for the same samples.

Figure 2: (a) T dependence of the resistivity for annealed samples of
Ru-1212 with a range of Zn concentrations (indicated in

mass of the sample diminished by only 0.2 mg in 1.1 g, reflecting a
constancy of the bulk oxygen stoichiometry of 8 ± 0.008.

The inset to Fig. 4 showing the zero-field cooled (ZFC) susceptibility
of sample B measured at 5.5 G reveals a maximal volume diamagnetic
susceptibility close to 100

The above results reveal a superconducting system typical of the HTS
cuprates with a transition temperature and normal-state transport
properties in all respects consistent with granular underdoped cuprates.
It seems likely, therefore, that Ru-1212 is a bulk superconductor like
the other HTS cuprates. However, without thermodynamic measurements
filamentary or surface superconductivity cannot be discounted. We have
carried out differential heat-capacity measurements on samples A and B
relative to an equimolar 3

The inset to Fig. 5(a) shows that the ferromagnetic anomaly in the
neighborhood of the Curie point is not mean-field-like but exhibits
strong 3D-XY fluctuations which extend to room temperature.[2] The step
height, ≈4.2 mJ/g at. K², is a factor of 2 to 3 smaller than that
expected for localized Ru moment ferromagnetism but would be comparative
with intinerent ferromagnetism in the Ru planes if $\gamma_{\rm Ru}$≈
2 - 3 mJ/g at. K² in the paramagnetic region. This is rather larger than
the band-structure value $\gamma_{\rm Ru}$=0.8 mJ/g at. K² deduced from
a t_(2g) bandwidth of 1.25 eV.[11] If the ferromagnetism is itinerant,
then the FM exchange energy must be a significant fraction of the Fermi
energy[17] and both must be small (≈ 1/3 that for Ni).

Figures 6(a) and 6(b) show γ relative to the reference, γ-
$\gamma_{\rm ref}$, for samples A and B, respectively. In both cases the
SC transition sets in at about 46 K and for the annealed sample has a
jump Δ γ ≈ 0.26 mJ/g at. K². Sample A has a broader and weaker
transition (Δ γ≈ 0.2 mJ/g at. K²) but clearly has the same onset at 46
K. This confirms our conclusion that the thermodynamic transition occurs
at 46 K in both samples and that the establishment of macroscopic
supercurrents is dominated by the granularity of the samples.

Figure 4: The T dependence of the ZFC volume susceptibility for Ru-1212.
Inset: the complete transition. Main panel: enlargement near T_(c)
showing the onset of the thermodynamic transition at 45 K. The dotted
curve shows the extrapolated NS behavior.

Figure 5: (a) $\gamma_{\rm tot}$=$C_{\rm tot}/T$ for annealed Ru-1212.
Solid curve: 0 T. Light curves: 4, 9, and 13 T. Dashed curve:
$\gamma_{\rm tot}$ for 7

The magnitude of the jump Δ γ (and hence the condensation energy) is
small but typical of other underdoped HTS cuprates [see dotted curves in
(b) for two underdoped Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O₈ samples [18]] and _confirms the
presence of bulk superconductivity_. In both Ru-1212 and Bi-2212 Δ γ is
substantially reduced from its value at optimal doping due to the
presence of the pseudogap which strongly attenuates T_(c) , γ, Δ γ and
the condensation energy
$U_{0}\!\!=\!\!\int_{0}^{T_{c}}\!(S_{\rm NS}\!-\!S_{\rm SC})\,dT$ due to
the loss of spectral weight available for SC [19, 20]. The in-field
reduction in Δ γ (and hence the superfluid density) is, again,
comparable to underdoped Bi-2212 while the absence of a field-dependent
shift in T_(c) to lower temperature implies a very large H_(c2) (>60 T).
In fact, T_(c) determined by either the midpoint or maximum slope in
γ(T) appears to move up some 4.5 K in both samples when the field is
increased to 4 or 5 T. This raises the interesting possibility of
triplet pairing (which is enhanced in a magnetic field). Leaving aside
the question of intrinsic p-wave pairing interactions in the RuO₂ layer,
theoretical considerations show that proximity coupling of d-wave SC to
an itinerant FM will induce a component of p-wave order parameter near
the interface in each [21].

Without investigating the differential heat capacity of a series of
samples extending towards the parent undoped AF insulator it is not
possible to determine the absolute NS value of $\gamma_{\rm el}(T)$.
However as shown previously [15] we can estimate
$\gamma_{\rm el}(T_{c})$ from the reduction in T_(c) due to the
fraction, y, of Zn substitution. For unitary scattering with a d-wave
order parameter the initial rate of reduction in T_(c) is given by

dT_(c) /dy = 58.5(Δ₀₀/T_(c0))⁻¹ γ(T_(c))⁻¹,
(1)

where Δ₀₀ and T_(c0) are the T  =  0 SC order parameter and T_(c) value,
respectively, in the absence of impurity scattering and γ is in units of
J/mol K [2]. It was found that this model gave a remarkably good
description of the changes in the depression of T_(c) by impurity
substitution across the under- and overdoped regions for both
Y_(0.8)Ca_(0.2)Ba₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) and La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄ using only the
experimentally observed values of γ(T_(c)). The inset to Fig. 2(b) shows
T_(c) plotted as a function of Zn content for the resistive onset (▴)
and mid-point (▾) as well as the thermopower onset (⬧). The solid lines
are the Abrikosov-Gorkov Eq. (15). From the initial slope
dT_(c) /dy = 15 K/

In conclusion, from transport and heat-capacity studies we have shown
that Ru-1212 behaves as a typical short-coherence-length underdoped
cuprate which, though granular, exhibits _bulk_ superconductivity with a
jump in γ(T) at T_(c) comparable to that observed in other HTS cuprates
at the same doping state. We are therefore able to confirm the
occurrence of spatially uniform ferromagnetism coexisting with _bulk_
superconductivity. This material clearly exhibits a number of features
arising from the presence of the normal-state pseudogap observed in
other underdoped cuprates. Although the magnetism in the RuO₂ layers may
be itinerant [11], the transport properties appear to be dominated by
the CuO₂ planes. The upward shift in T_(c) with field suggests some
degree of triplet pairing.

## References

* [1] J. L. Tallon _et al._, IEEE Trans. Appl. Supercond. **9**, 1696
(1999). * [2] C. Bernhard _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **59**, 14 099
(1999). * [3] T. M. Rice and M. Sigrist, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter
**7**, 643 (1995). * [4] W. A. Fertig _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **38**,
987 (1977). * [5] D. E. Moncton _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **45**, 2060
(1980). * [6] M. Ishikawa and O. Fischer, Solid State Commun. **23**, 37
(1977). * [7] A. Fainstein _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **60**, R12 597
(1999). * [8] A. C. McLaughlin _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **60**, 7512
(1999). * [9] J. W. Loram _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **71**, 1740
(1993). * [10] J. McCrone, J. R. Cooper, and J. L. Tallon, J. Low Temp.
Phys (to be published). * [11] W. E. Pickett, R. Weht, and A. B. Shick,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **83**, 3713 (1999). * [12] T. Ito, K. Takenako, and S.
Uchida, Phys. Rev. Lett. **70**, 3995 (1993). * [13] D. Obertelli, J. R.
Cooper, and J. L. Tallon, Phys. Rev. B **46**, 14 928 (1992). * [14] A.
Carrington and J. R. Cooper, Physica C **219**, 119 (1994). * [15] J. L.
Tallon _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **79**, 5294 (1997). * [16] G. V. M.
Williams and J. L. Tallon, Phys. Rev. B **59**, 3911 (1999). * [17] A.
H. Wilson, _The Theory of Metals_ (Cambridge University Press, London,
1965), p. 182. * [18] J. W. Loram _et al._ (unpublished). * [19] J. W.
Loram _et al._, Physica C **235-240**, 134 (1994). * [20] J. W. Loram
_et al._, J. Phys. Chem. Solids **59**, 2091 (1998). * [21] K. Kuboki,
_Proceedings of LT22_ [Physica B (to be published)].

Figure 6: Differential γ(T) relative to the Zn-substituted reference for
(a) as-prepared sample and (b) 6-d annealed sample in magnetic fields as
annotated in units of T. The dotted curves in (b) show
γ-$\gamma_{\rm ref}$ at zero field for two underdoped Bi-2212 samples.
