Effects of two gaps and paramagnetic pair breaking on the upper critical
field of SmFeAsO_(0.85) and SmFeAsO_(0.8)F_(0.2) single crystals

Hyun-Sook Lee

Marek Bartkowiak

Jae-Hyun Park

Jue-Yeap Lee

Ju-Young Kim

B. K. Cho

Chang-UK Jung

Jun Sung Kim

H-Jong Lee

Department of Physics, Pohang University of Science and Technology,
Pohang 790-784, Republic of Korea Department of Materials Science and
Engineering, GIST, Gwangju 500-712, Republic of Korea Department of
Physics, Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, Yongin, Gyeonggi 449-791,
Republic of Korea

###### Abstract

We investigated the temperature dependence of the upper critical field
[H_(c2)(T)] of fluorine-free SmFeAsO_(0.85) and fluorine-doped
SmFeAsO_(0.8)F_(0.2) single crystals by measuring the resistive
transition in low static magnetic fields and in pulsed fields up to 60
T. Both crystals show that H_(c2)(T)’s along the c axis [H_(c2)^(c)(T)]
and in an ab-planar direction [T_(c2)^(ab)(T)] exhibit a linear and a
sublinear increase, respectively, with decreasing temperature below the
superconducting transition. H_(c2)(T)’s in both directions deviate from
the conventional one-gap Werthamer-Helfand-Hohenberg theoretical
prediction at low temperatures. A two-gap nature and the paramagnetic
pair-breaking effect are shown to be responsible for the
temperature-dependent behavior of H_(c2)^(c) and H_(c2)^(ab),
respectively.

pacs: 10.1103/PhysRevB.80.144512 + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL REVIEW
B **80**, 144512 (2009)

## I Introduction

The upper critical field, H_(c2), is one of the most important
superconducting parameters, providing a valuable insight into the
pairing mechanism and information on fundamental superconducting
properties such as coherence length scales. The temperature dependence
of the upper critical field H_(c2)(T) and its anisotropy are sensitive
to the details of the underlying electronic structures and reflect the
dimensionality of superconductivity. Furthermore, H_(c2) is related to
the critical current density, which is an important material parameter
for application purposes.

After the discovery of iron-pnictides-based
superconductors,[1]REFeAsO_(1 − x)F_(x) (RE=rare-earth elements), with
relatively high-superconducting transition temperature (T_(c)), many
efforts have been made to investigate their H_(c2)(T).
REFeAsO_(1 − x)F_(x) has a layered structure with alternating stacks of
insulating REO and conducting FeAs layers. Despite the presence of the
two-dimensional nature in the materials, most of studies on H_(c2)(T) of
REFeAsO_(1 − x)F_(x) have been limited to polycrystals[2, 3] because of
the difficulty with growing REFeAsO_(1 − x)F_(x) single crystals.
Therefore, recent investigations of single crystals have been more
focused on AEFe₂As₂ (AE=alkaline-earth elements) (Refs. [4, 5, 6])
single crystals, which can be grown with relative ease in the ambient
conditions. High-field measurements on electron- and hole-doped AEFe₂As₂
single crystals and films[7, 8, 9, 10, 11] showed that H_(c2)(T) in a
c-axis field [H_(c2)^(c)(T)] and in an ab-planar field [H_(c2)^(ab)(T)]
increases almost linearly and sublinearly with decreasing temperature
below T_(c), respectively, regardless of the doping level and the degree
of disorder. The resultant H_(c2)^(ab)(T) approaches the value of
H_(c2)^(c)(T) at T far below T_(c), leading to the almost isotropic
superconductivity in the zero-temperature limit. Such a quasi-isotropic
property of H_(c2)(T) in a layered structure is quite intriguing and has
been attributed to the multiband effect.[9, 10, 11]

Recently single crystalline REFeAsO_(1 − x)F_(x) (RE=Sm, Nd, and Pr)
(Refs. [12, 13, 14, 15]) were successfully grown by using the
flux-growth technique or the high-pressure high-temperature technique.
There is, however, a single report on the H_(c2)(T) of
REFeAsO_(1 − x)F_(x) single crystals for NdFeAsO_(0.7)F_(0.3) at
temperatures far below T_(c), where H_(c2)(T) was traced by high-field
resistivity measurements using pulsed magnetic field up to 60
T.[16]H_(c2)^(c)(T) in the study exhibited a pronounced upturn curvature
at low temperatures.[16] By contrast, H_(c2)^(ab)(T) showed a downturn
curvature in the low-temperature range.[16] Apparently, the temperature
dependence of H_(c2)^(c) for NdFeAsO_(1 − x)F_(x), despite being common
iron-arsenic compounds, appears to be quite different from that of
AEFe₂As₂. Thus, it is highly required to examine any common or
dissimilar H_(c2)(T) behavior of different compounds of
REFeAsO_(1 − x)F_(x), both in c-axis and in ab-planar fields, by
adopting high-quality single crystals.

In this paper, we present H_(c2)(T) for the magnetic fields along the c
axis (H_( ∥ c)) and in the ab plane (H_( ∥ ab)) for single crystals of
oxygen-deficient SmFeAsO_(0.85) and fluorine-doped SmFeAsO_(0.8)F_(0.2).
H_(c2)(T) were determined from the resistive transition in pulsed
(static) magnetic fields up to 60 T (6.9 T). The sublinear increase in
H_(c2)^(ab)(T) with decreasing temperature below T_(c), as previously
seen in a NdFeAsO_(0.7)F_(0.3) single crystal[16] and in AEFe₂As₂
compounds,[7, 8, 9, 10, 11] was also observed in our crystals. On the
other hand, H_(c2)^(c)(T)’s of our SmFeAsO_(0.85) and
SmFeAsO_(0.85)F_(0.2) crystals linearly increase with decreasing
temperature near T_(c) but tend to be saturated far below T_(c). This
temperature dependence of H_(c2)^(c) is in contrast to the linear
temperature dependence found in AEFe₂As₂ in all the temperature range
below T_(c) (Refs. [7, 8, 9, 10, 11]) and to the significant upturn
behavior in NdFeAsO_(0.7)F_(0.3) single crystals below T_(c).[16] A
deviation of H_(c2)(T) from the conventional one-gap
Werthamer-Helfand-Hohenberg (WHH) prediction is found in our crystals.
This feature, along with the reduction in its anisotropy with lowering
temperatures, turns out to be common to iron-pnictides superconductors.
Its detailed temperature dependence and the anisotropy, however, can be
quite different depending on the compounds, which indicates the complex
interplay of a multiband nature and the paramagnetic effect.

## II Experiment

Single crystals of SmFeAsO_(0.85) and SmFeAsO_(0.8)F_(0.2) with nominal
compositions were grown using the self-flux method under
high-temperature and high-pressure condition. Stoichiometric starting
compounds of SmAs, Fe₂O₃, and Fe for SmFeAsO_(0.85) single crystals and
SmAs, FeAs, Fe₂O₃, Fe, and SmF₃ for SmFeAsO_(0.8)F_(0.2) single crystals
were used. A pellet sealed in a boron-nitride container was placed in a
cubic pyrophyllite cell equipped with a carbon heater. A 14 mm cubic
multivali-type press was used to pressurize the whole assembly. Heat
treatment at 1350−1450 ^(∘)C was done for 8−10 h under a constant
pressure of 3.3 GPa, which was then followed by rapid cooling to room
temperature. Details of the single-crystal growth are described
elsewhere.[17] After the pressure was released, the final bulk was
mechanically crushed to separate the single crystals from the flux.

Thus-grown crystals have platelike shapes. X-ray diffraction reveals
that the crystal surface is normal to the c axis with the plate-shaped
surface along the ab plane. In-plane resistive transition of
SmFeAsO_(0.85) and SmFeAsO_(0.8)F_(0.2) single crystals was measured
using the standard four-probe technique. Contact leads were prepared by
using photolithography on the platelike sample surface. The upper insets
of Figs. 1(a) and 1(b) show optical microscopic images of the four-probe
patterned SmFeAsO_(0.85) (dimensions: ∼80 x 50 x 10 μm³) and
SmFeAsO_(0.8)F_(0.2) (dimensions: ∼60 x 50 x 10 μm³) single-crystal
specimens, respectively. The contact resistance of each lead was ∼1 Ω.
The resistive transition [R(T)] was measured in low applied magnetic
fields up to 6.9 T. Resistance as a function of fields [R(H)] up to 60 T
was also measured at different temperatures in pulsed-field facilities
at Hochfeld-Magnetlabor Dresden. During the measurements, magnetic
fields were applied along the c axis and in the ab plane while
maintaining the current flow of 1 mA normal to the magnetic field, for
which the heating due to the contact and the sample resistance was
negligible.

## III Results

As shown in the lower insets of Figs. 1(a) and 1(b), the superconducting
transitions in zero field are very sharp for both SmFeAsO_(0.85) and
SmFeAsO_(0.8)F_(0.2) crystals. The onset of the superconducting
transition, defined by the deviation from the linear R(T) above T_(c),
occurs at about T_(c, onset)=50.5 K for SmFeAsO_(0.85) and about 42 K
for SmFeAsO_(0.8)F_(0.2). The transition width ΔT_(c), determined by
adopting the criterion of 10−90

Figures 2(a) and 2(b) present temperature dependence of resistance
[R(T)] of SmFeAsO_(0.85) single crystal in low magnetic fields from 0 to
6.9 T for $H_{\rm ic}$ and H_(lab), respectively. The corresponding R(T)
of SmFeAsO_(0.8)F_(0.2) single crystal is displayed in Figs. 3(a) and
3(b). Upon increasing magnetic fields, the resistive transition in
$H_{\rm ic}$ becomes broader and the onset of superconductivity shifts
to lower temperatures. The trend is more conspicuous in $H_{\rm ic}$
than in $H_{\rm lab}$. These behaviors of R(T) in low magnetic fields of
$H_{\rm ic}$ and H_(lab) in both crystals are similar to what was
previously reported for SmFeAsO_(0.7)F_(0.25) (Ref. [15]) and
NdFeAsO_(0.82)F_(0.18) (Refs. [14] and [16]) single crystals. However,
details of the magnetic-field dependence are notably different from the
previous observation. In our crystals, the resistive tail is more
clearly observed for $H_{\rm ic}$, in particular, with a gradual
extension to lower temperatures with increasing fields [see Fig. 2(a)
for SmFeAsO_(0.85) and Fig. 3(a) for SmFeAsO_(0.8)F_(0.2)]. The tail of

Figure 1: (Color online) Temperature dependence of the resistance R(T)
of (a) SmFeAsO_(0.85) and (b) SmFeAsO_(0.8)F_(0.2) single crystals in
zero magnetic field. The upper insets of (a) and (b) show the
microscopic images of the four-probe patterned crystals used for the
transport measurements. The lower insets of (a) and (b) show a magnified
view near the superconducting transition. The onset of superconducting
transition, T_(c, onset), defined by the deviation from the linearity of
R(T), is indicated in the lower insets.

R(T) was also observed in high $H_{\rm{I_{ic}}}$ in cuprates [20-23] and
in YNi₂B₂C [24], where both have layered structure with CuO₂ and Ni₂B₂
conducting planes, respectively. It has been known that such a resistive
tail can be explained in terms of the vortex-glass phase [25].
Therefore, the observation of the R(T) tail in our crystals indicates
the possible formation of the vortex-glass phase for H>2 T. In the same
magnetic-field region of $H_{\rm{I_{ic}}}$, the formation of
vortex-liquid phase was also confirmed in NdFeAsO_(1 − x)F_(x) single
crystals [26]. Oxygen vacancies in both of our SmFeAsO_(0.85) and
SmFeAsO_(0.8)F_(0.2) crystals may have acted as random intrinsic point
defects and induced the vortex-glass state. Detailed analysis on the
vortex dynamics in our crystals will be presented separately [27].

The magnetic-field dependence of resistance [R(H)] of our SmFeAsO_(0.85)
[Figs. 2(c) and 2(d)] and SmFeAsO_(0.8)F_(0.2) [Figs. 3(c) and 3(d)]
crystals was measured in pulsed magnetic fields (both $H_{\rm{I_{ic}}}$
and $H_{\rm{I_{lab}}}$) up to 60 T at various temperatures. The upper
critical fields, $H_{\rm{c2}}^{c}$ for $H_{\rm{I_{ic}}}$ and
$H_{\rm{c2}}^{ab}$ for $H_{\rm{I_{lab}}}$, were obtained by adopting
different criteria; 90

Figure 3: Temperature dependence of the resistance R(T) of
SmFeAsO_(0.8)F_(0.2) single crystal measured in the various static
fields from 0 to 6.9 T for (a) $H_{\rm{I_{ic}}}$ (0, 0.2, 0.4, 0.7, 1,
1.5, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, and 6.9 T) and (b) $H_{\rm{lab}}$ (0, 0.5, 1, 2, 3,
4, 5, 6, and 6.9 T). Field dependence of the resistance R(H) of
SmFeAsO_(0.8)F_(0.2) single crystal measured at various temperatures in
pulsed magnetic fields up to 60 T for (c) $H_{\rm{I_{ic}}}$ and (d)
$H_{\rm{I_{lab}}}$.

Figure 4: (Color online) Temperature dependence of the upper critical
fields $H_{\rm{c2}}(T)$ of SmFeAsO_(0.85) for (a) $H_{\rm{I_{ic}}}$ and
(b) $H_{\rm{I_{lab}}}$ and of SmFeAsO_(0.8)F_(0.2) for (c)
$H_{\rm{I_{ic}}}$ and (d) $H_{\rm{I_{lab}}}$. $H_{\rm{c2}}(T)$ values
are extracted from 10

Figure 2: Temperature dependence of the resistance R(T) of
SmFeAsO_(0.85) single crystal measured at the various static fields from
0 to 6.9 T for (a) $H_{\rm{I_{ic}}}$ (0, 0.2, 0.4, 0.6, 0.8, 1, 1.5, 2,
3, 4, 5, 6, and 6.9 T) and (b) $H_{\rm{I_{lab}}}$ (0, 0.5, 1, 2, 3, 4,
5, 6, and 6.9 T). Field dependence of the resistance R(H) of
SmFeAsO_(0.85) single crystal measured at various temperatures in pulsed
magnetic fields up to 60 T for (c) $H_{\rm{I_{ic}}}$ and (d)
$H_{\rm{I_{lab}}}$.

bols). With lowering temperature, H_(c2)^(c)(T) exhibits a slight upturn
variation for the 10

According to a recent report on high-field resistivity measurements in a
NdFeAsO_(0.7)F_(0.3) single crystal up to 60 T,[16]H_(c2)(T) for
$H_{\rm lc}$ exhibits a pronounced upturn in the entire ranges of
magnetic field 60 T and temperature below T_(c)∼ 45 K. This result is
similar to the earlier report for polycrystalline samples,[2, 3] where
the upturn shape of H_(c2)^(c)(T) was suggested to be an intrinsic
property of iron pnictides and was explained in terms of the two-band
model.[2, 3, 16] However, our SmFeAsO_(0.85) and SmFeAsO_(0.8)F_(0.2)
single crystals show linear increase in H_(c2)^(c)(T) with decreasing
temperature near T_(c) but tend to be saturated far below T_(c) [see
Figs. 5(a) and 5(b)]. This temperature dependence of H_(c2)^(c) is in
contrast to the linear and upturn temperature dependences in AEFe₂As₂
(Refs. 7, 8, 9, 10, 11) and in NdFeAsO_(0.7)F_(0.3) single crystals,[16]
respectively, below T_(c).

## IV Discussion

First, we compare the H_(c2)(T) data of our crystals with the
conventional WHH theory,[34] which is based on the orbital effect
arising from the Lorentz force acting on paired electrons with opposite
momenta as the main cause of pair breaking. In addition, the theory is
extended to include the effects of spin paramagnetism (α) and spin-orbit
scattering (λ_(so)). Here, we assume that the spin-orbit scattering due
to impurities is negligible (λ_(so)=0).[35] As shown in the Fig. 5, the
data points of H_(c2)(T) for $H_{\rm lc}$ and $H_{\rm lab}$ in both
crystals do not well follow the WHH model for α=0 (solid lines).
H_(c2)^(c)(T)’s for both crystals are enhanced compared to the WHH
prediction while H_(c2)^(ab)(T)’s are suppressed below the WHH curve
with a flattening behavior.

Using the WHH theory for α=0 and λ_(so)=0, we estimate the H_(c2) value
at T=0 [$H_{c2,\rm WHH}(0)$]. $H_{c2,\rm WHH}^{c}(0)$∼ 84 T (47 T) and
$H_{c2,\rm WHH}^{ab}(0)$∼ 378 T (280 T) for SmFeAsO_(0.85)
[SmFeAsO_(0.8)F_(0.2)] are obtained using the relation,
$H_{c2,\rm WHH}(0)$=Θ.69T_(c)|dH_(c2)/dT|_(T_(c)). The values of
|dH_(c2)/dT|_(T_(c)) are presented in Table 1. It is noteworthy to
compare these $H_{c2,\rm WHH}(0)$ values with the paramagnetic limiting
field due to Zeeman paramagnetic pair breaking, H_(p)(T=0) ≅ (1 +
λ_(so))$H_{p}^{\rm BCS}(T$=0). Here, $H_{p}^{\rm BCS}(T$=0) =
1.84T_(c)(H=0) (Ref. 36) is the Pauli or Clongston-Chandrasekhar-limit
field

Figure 5: H_(c2)(T) for $H_{\rm lc}$ (circles) and $H_{\rm lab}$
(triangles) of (a) SmFeAsO_(0.85) and (b) SmFeAsO_(0.85)F_(0.2)
extracted from 50

for isotropic s-wave pairing in the absence of spin-orbit scattering in
weakly coupled superconductors. λ_(ep) is introduced to take into
account the strong electron-boson (i.e., phonon) coupling in the system.
If we take [16, 35, 37]λ_(ep)=0.6, H_(p)(0)’s for SmFeAsO_(0.85) and
SmFeAsO_(0.8)F_(0.2) are estimated to be about 145 and 120 T,
respectively. In both crystals, the values of H_(p)^(c),¹,${}

  impurities. In any case, the strong deviation from the WHH model is a common feature of iron pnictides, which reflects the multigap nature of the materials.

Next, we consider the case of \(H_{\parallel ab}$. In both crystals, the
various sets of fitting parameters using the two-gap model lead to an
identical curve of H_(c2)^(ab)(T). As shown in Figs. 6(a) and 6(b), the
fitting curves of two-band model cannot capture the flattening behavior
with decreasing temperatures in both crystals. As discussed above, for
H_( ∥ ab) we expect that the paramagnetic limiting [35] plays an
essential role for determining H_(c2)^(ab)(T). In the framework of the
WHH theory, such a spin-paramagnetic effect can be taken into account by
introducing the so-called Maki parameter, α. With α=2.3 and 2.7, the
H_(c2)^(ab)(T) data of SmFeAsO_(0.85) and SmFeAsO_(0.8)F_(0.2) crystals
are nicely fitted by the WHH model (see Fig. 7). It has been known that
the Maki parameter α becomes larger as the system is disordered. [35] A
slightly larger value of α for SmFeAsO_(0.85)F_(0.2) than for
SmFeAsO_(0.85) is consistent with its smaller RRR value. The values of
H_(c2)^(′),WHH(0) obtained by considering the Pauli paramagnetism with
α≠ 0 in the WHH theory are estimated to be ≈150 T for SmFeAsO_(0.85) and
≈100 T for SmFeAsO_(0.85)F_(0.2). Since H_(c2)^(′),WHH(0)≅H_(p)(0) in
our crystals, the data of H_(c2)^(α)(T) are strongly affected by the
spin paramagnetic effect rather than by the two-band nature.

Due to the quasi-two-dimensional Fermi-surface topology, for a
$H_{\rm lc}$, the cross section of the Fermi surface produces closed
current loops that form vortices. [45, 46, 47, 48, 49] Thus, for
$H_{\rm lc}$, the orbital pair-breaking mechanism plays a dominant role
in destroying the superconductivity in high magnetic fields. Thus, the
two-gap theory, taking into account the orbital pair-breaking effect,
well describes our H_(c2)^(α)(T) data. For a H_( ∥ ab), however, closed
loops cannot be easily formed because the cross-sectional area of the
Fermi surface is almost fully open [50] with negligible orbital effect,
thus resulting in a rapid increase in H_(c2)(T) near T_(c). Therefore,
the spin-paramagnetic effect is a more dominant factor in reducing the
increase rate of H_(c2)^(ab)(T) with decreasing temperature in our
crystals.

In Fig. 8, the anisotropy of H_(c2), γ=H_(c2)^(ab)/H_(c2)^(c), is
plotted as a function of reduced temperature t=T/T_(c) for
SmFeAsO_(0.85) (circles) and SmFeAsO_(0.85)F_(0.2) (diamonds). The value
of γ for SmFeAsO_(0.85) (SmFeAsO_(0.85)F_(0.2)) crystal is in the range
of about 3-6 (4-7), at the temperature region of T=(0.75−1)T_(c).
SmFeAsO_(0.85) F_(0.2) has a somewhat larger γ than SmFeAsO_(0.85).
These values are similar in magnitude to the ones reported in other
REFAsO_(1 − x)F_(x) (RE=Sm and Nd) single crystals. [14, 15, 16, 16, 17,
51] The γ has temperature dependence, which is distinct from that of the
conventional single-band superconductivity. The decreasing γ with
decreasing temperature in both crystals results from the enhanced
H_(c2)^(c)(T) and the suppressed H_(c2)^(ab)(T) compared to the WHH for
α=0 as shown in Figs. 5(a) and 5(b). [35] Therefore, the temperature
dependence of γ originates from the combined effect of two-band nature
and spin paramagnetism.

## V Summary

This study reports on H_(c2)^(c)(T) and H_(c2)^(ab)(T) of fluorine-free
SmFeAsO_(0.85) and fluorine-doped SmFeAsO_(0.8)F_(0.2) single crystals
investigated by measuring the resistive transition at high magnetic
fields up to 60 T. In contrast to the strong upturn curvature of
H_(c2)^(c)(T) reported earlier in NdFeAsO_(1 − x)F_(x) single crystal,
H_(c2)^(c)(T)’s in both of our crystals increase linearly with
decreasing temperature near T_(c) and tends to be saturated at
low-enough temperatures. We confirm that the temperature dependences of
H_(c2)^(c)(T)’s well follow the two-gap dirty-limit prediction while
they deviate from the one-gap WHH prediction, regardless of inclusion of
the spin-paramagnetic effect. On the other hand, H_(c2)^(ab)(T) of our
crystals show the downturn curvature, consistent with the earlier
observation in NdFeAsO_(1 − x)F_(x) single crystal and AEFe₂As₂
compounds. The importance of paramagnetic effect on the downturn
curvature in H_(c2)^(ab)(T) has already been pointed out for
NdFeAsO_(1 − x)F_(x) single crystal and AEFe₂As₂ compounds but
H_(c2)^(ab)(T) data were analyzed only within the two-gap model. [9, 10,
11, 12, 16] In this study, the temperature dependences of
H_(c2)^(ab)(T)’s are analyzed in terms of two-gap model and the WHH
theory including the paramagnetic effect. Our analysis clearly indicates
that the flattening of H_(c2)^(ab)(T) is governed mainly by the
paramagnetic pair-breaking effect rather than the two-gap effect. This
study shows that the upper

Figure 7: Analysis of H_(c2)(T) for H_( ∥ ab) by using the WHH theory
including spin-paramagnetic effect (α≠ 0). The flattening of H_(c2)(T)
for H_( ∥ ab) of SmFeAsO_(0.85) and SmFeAsO_(0.85)F_(0.2) single
crystals, which can be clearly observed by a deviation from the dotted
lines of the WHH theory for α=0, is well explained by the WHH theory for
α=2.3 and 2.7 (solid lines), respectively, rather than by the two-band
model (dash-dotted lines).

critical field in Sm-based iron pnictides is determined by the complex
interplay of a two-band nature and the paramagnetic effect depending on
the direction of magnetic field application with respect to the crystal
axes. We believe this is the generic characteristics of different
families of iron-pnictide compounds.

## Acknowledgments

This work was supported by the Korea Science and Engineering Foundation
through Acceleration Research Grant No. R17-2008-007-01001-0 and by
POSCO. J.S.K. is supported by the POSTECH Research funding.

## References

* [1] Y. Kamihara, T. Watanabe, M. Hirano, and H. Hosono, J. Am. Chem.
Soc. **130**, 3296 (2008). * [2] F. Hunte, J. Jaroszynski, A. Gurevich,
D. C. Larbalestier, R. Jin, A. S. Sefat, M. A. McGuire, B. C. Sales, D.
K. Christen, and D. Mandrus, Nature **453**, 903 (2008). * [3] Y. J. Jo,
J. Jaroszynski, A. Yamamoto, A. Gurevich, S. C. Riggs, G. S. Boebinger,
D. Larbalestier, H. H. Wen, N. D. Zhigadlo, S. Katrych, Z. Bukowski, J.
Karpinski, R. H. Liu, H. Chen, X. H. Chen, and L. Balicas, Physica C
**469**, 566 (2009). * [4] M. Rotter, M. Tegel, and D. Johrendt, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **101**, 107006 (2008). * [5] N. Ni, S. L. Bud’ko, A.
Kreyssig, S. Nandi, G. E. Rustan, A. I. Goldman, S. Gupta, J. D.
Corbett, A. Kracher, and P. C. Canfield, Phys. Rev. B **78**, 014507
(2008). * [6] K. Sasmal, B. Lv, B. Lorenz, A. M. Guloy, F. Chen, Y. Y.
Xue, and C. W. Chu, Phys. Rev. Lett. **101**, 107007 (2008). * [7] M. M.
Altarawneh, K. Collar, C. H. Mielke, N. Ni, S. L. Bud’ko, and P. C.
Canfield, Phys. Rev. B **78**, 220505(R) (2008). * [8] A. Yamamoto, J.
Jaroszynski, C. Tarantini, L. Balicas, J. Jiang, A. Gurevich, D. C.
Larbalestier, R. Jin, A. S. Sefat, M. A. McGuire, B. C. Sales, D. K.
Christen, and D. Mandrus, Appl. Phys. Lett. **94**, 062511 (2009). * [9]
S. A. Baily, Y. Kohama, H. Hiramatsu, B. Maiorov, F. F. Balakirev, M.
Hirano, and H. Hosono, Phys. Rev. Lett. **102**, 117004 (2009). * [10]
H. Q. Yuan, J. Singleton, F. F. Balakirev, S. A. Baily, G. F. Chen, J.
L. Luo, and N. L. Wang, Nature (London) **457**, 565 (2009). * [11] M.
Kano, Y. Kohama, D. Graf, F. F. Balakirev, A. S. Sefat, M. A. McGuire,
B. C. Sales, D. Mandrus, and S. W. Tozer, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **78**,
084719 (2009). * [12] N. D. Zhigadlo, S. Katrych, Z. Bukowski, S.
Weyeneth, R. Puzniak, and J. Karpinski, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter
**20**, 342202 (2008). * [13] R. Prozorov, M. E. Tillman, E. D. Mun, and
P. C. Canfield, New J. Phys. **11**, 035004 (2009). * [14] Y. Jia, P.
Cheng, L. Fang, H. Luo, H. Yang, C. Ren, L. Shan, C. Gu, and H.-H. Wen,
Appl. Phys. Lett. **93**, 032503 (2008). * [15] J. Karpinski, N. D.
Zhigadlo, S. Katrych, Z. Bukowski, P. Moll, S. Weyeneth, H. Keller, R.
Puzniak, M. Tortello, D. Daghero, R. Gonnelli, I. Maggio-Aprile, Y.
Fasano, O. Fischer, and B. Batlogg, Physica C **469**, 370 (2009). *
[16] J. Jaroszynski, F. Hunte, L. Balicas, Youn-jun Jo, I. Raicevic, A.
Gurevich, D. C. Larbalestier, F. F. Balakirev, L. Fang, P. Cheng, Y.
Jia, and H. H. Wen, Phys. Rev. B **78**, 174523 (2008). * [17] H.-S.
Lee, J.-H. Park, J.-Y. Lee, J.-Y. Kim, N.-H. Sung, T.-Y. Koo, B. K. Cho,
C.-U. Jung, S. Saini, S.-J. Kim, and H.-J. Lee, Supercond. Sci. Technol.
**22**, 075023 (2009). * [18] Y. Jia, P. Cheng, L. Fang, H. Yang, C.
Ren, L. Shan, C.-Z. Gu, and H.-H. Wen, Supercond. Sci. Technol. **21**,
105018 (2008). * [19] J. Yang, Z.-A. Ren, G.-C. Che, W. Lu, X.-L. Shen,
Z.-C. Li, W. Yi, X.-L. Dong, L.-L. Sun, F. Zhou, and Z.-X. Zhao,
Supercond. Sci. Technol. **22**, 025004 (2009). * [20] A. K. Pradhan, M.
Muralidhar, Y. Feng, M. Murakami, K. Nakao, and N. Koshizuka, Phys. Rev.
B **64**, 172505 (2001). * [21] H. Safar, P. L. Gammel, D. A. Huse, D.
J. Bishop, W. C. Lee, J. Giajintzakis, and D. M. Ginsberg, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **70**, 3800 (1993). * [22] J. A. Fendrich, W. K. Kwok, J.
Giapintzakis, C. J. van der Beek, V. M. Vinokur, S. Fleshler, U. Welp,
H. K. Viswanathan, and G. W. Crabtree, Phys. Rev. Lett. **74**, 1210
(1995). * [23] D. Lopez, L. Krusin-Elbaum, H. Safar, E. Righi, F. de la
Cruz, S. Grigera, C. Feild, W. K. Kwok, L. Paulius, and G. W. Crabtree,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **80**, 1070 (1998). * [24] M.-O. Mun, S.-I. Lee, W. C.
Lee, P. C. Canfield, B. K. Cho, and D. C. Johnston, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**76**, 2790 (1996). * [25] D. S. Fisher, M. P. A. Fisher, and D. A.
Huse, Phys. Rev. B **43**, 130 (1991). * [26] Z. Pribulova, T. Klein, J.
Kacmarcik, C. Marcenat, M. Konczykowski, S. L. Bud’ko, M. Tillman, and
P. C. Canfield, Phys. Rev. B **79**, 020508(R) (2009). * [27] H.-S. Lee
_et al._ (unpublished). * [28] Y. Ando, G. S. Boebinger, A. Passner, L.
F. Schneemeyer, T. Kimura, M. Okuya, S. Watauchi, J. Shimoyama, K.
Kishio, K. Tamasaku, N. Ichikawa, and S. Uchida, Phys. Rev. B **60**,
12475 (1999). * [29] U. Welp, W. K. Kwok, G. W. Crabtree, K. G.
Vandervoort, and J. Z. Liu, Phys. Rev. Lett. **62**, 1908 (1989). * [30]
P. Fournier and R. L. Greene, Phys. Rev. B **68**, 094507 (2003). * [31]
I. W. Sumarlin, S. Skanthakumar, J. W. Lynn, J. L. Peng, Z. Y. Li, W.
Jiang, and R. L. Greene, Phys. Rev. Lett. **68**, 2228 (1992). * [32] S.
I. Vedeneev, A. G. M. Jansen, E. Haanappel, and P. Wyder, Phys. Rev. B
**60**, 12467 (1999). * [33] J. Jaroszynski, Scott C., Riggs, F. Hunte,
A. Gurevich, D. C. Larbalestier, G. S. Boebinger, F. F. Balakirev,
Albert Migliori, Z. A. Ren, W. Lu, J. Yang, X. L. Shen, X. L. Dong, Z.
X. Zhao, R. Jin, A. S. Sefat, M. A. McGuire, B. C. Sales, D. K.
Christen, and D. Mandrus, Phys. Rev. B **78**, 064511 (2008). * [34] N.
Werthamer, E. Helfand, and P. Hohenberg, Phys. Rev. **147**, 295
(1966). * [35] G. Fuchs, S.-L. Drechsler, N. Kozlova, M. Bartkowiak, J.
E. Hamann-Borrero, G. Behr, K. Nenkov, H.-H. Klauss, H. Maeter, A.
Amato, H. Luetkens, A. Kwadrin, R. Khasanov, J. Freudenberger, A.
Kohler, M. Knupfer, E. Arushanov, H. Rosner, B. Buchner, and L. Schultz,
New J. Phys. **11**, 075007 (2009); G. Fuchs, S.-L. Drechsler, N.
Kozlova, G. Behr, A. Kohler, J. Werner, K. Nenkov, R. Klingeler, J.
Hamann-Borrero, C. Hess, A. Kondrat, M. Grobosch, A. Narduzzo, M.
Knupfer, J. Freudenberger, B. Buchner, and L. Schultz, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**101**, 237003 (2008). * [36] A. M. Clogston, Phys. Rev. Lett. **9**,
266 (1962); B. S. Chandrasekhar, Appl. Phys. Lett. **1**, 7 (1962). *
[37] S.-L. Drechsler, M. Grobosch, K. Koepernik, G. Behr, A. Kohler, J.
Werner, A. Kondrat, N. Leps, C. Hess, R. Klingeler, R. Schuster, B.
Buchner, and M. Knupfer, Phys. Rev. Lett. **101**, 257004 (2008). * [38]
I. I. Mazin, D. J. Singh, M. D. Johannes, and M. H. Du, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**101**, 057003 (2008). * [39] Z.-J. Yao, J.-X. Liand, and Z. D. Wang,
New J. Phys. **11**, 025009 (2009). * [40] J. Li and Y. P. Wang, Chin.
Phys. Lett. **25**, 2232 (2008). * [41] F. Marsiglio and J. E. Hirsch,
Physica C **468**, 1047 (2008). * [42] Q. Han, Y. Chen, and Z. D. Wang,
EPL **82**, 37007 (2008). * [43] A. Gurevich, Phys. Rev. B **67**,
184515 (2003). * [44] D. J. Singh and M.-H. Du, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**100**, 237003 (2008). * [45] J. R. Shrieffer and J. S. Brooks,
_Handbook of High-Temperature Superconductivity_ (Springer, New York,
2006). * [46] S. I. Vedeneev, Cyril Proust, V. P. Mineev, M. Nardone,
and G. L. J. A. Rikken, Phys. Rev. B **73**, 014528 (2006). * [47]
Pengcheng Li, F. F. Balakirev, and R. L. Greene, Phys. Rev. B **75**,
172508 (2007). * [48] J. Singleton and C. Mielke, Contemp. Phys. **43**,
63 (2002). * [49] M. S. Nam, J. A. Symington, J. Singleton, S. J.
Blundell, A. Aradvan, J. A. A. J. Perenboom, M. Kurmoo, and P. Dayk, J.
Phys.: Condens. Matter **11**, L477 (1999). * [50] J. Singleton, P. A.
Goddard, A. Ardavan, A. I. Coldea, S. J. Blundell, R. D. McDonald, S.
Tozer, and J. A. Schlueter, Phys. Rev. Lett. **99**, 027004 (2007). *
[51] S. Weyeneth, R. Puzniak, U. Mosele, N. D. Zhigadlo, S. Katrych, Z.
Bukowski, J. Karpinski, S. Kohout, J. Roos, and H. Keller, J. Supercond.
Novel Magn. **22**, 325 (2009). * [52] S. Weyeneth, R. Puzniak, N. D.
Zhigadlo, S. Katrych, Z. Bukowski, J. Karpinski, and H. Keller, J.
Supercond. Novel Magn. **22**, 347 (2009). * [53] The relatively small
anisotropy of our single crystals and the decrease in γ with decreasing
temperature ensure a sufficiently uniform current distribution along the
c axis in our measurement configurations. The nonuniform current
distribution with measurement contacts on the crystal surface, often
encountered in highly anisotropic layered materials such as Bi-based
cuprates with γ∼ 200, is significantly reduced in our single crystals.
Thus, any artifact introduced to H_(c2)^(c)(T) can be ruled out.
