Point-contact spectroscopy of Al- and C-doped MgB₂: Superconducting
energy gaps and scattering studies

P. Szabo,¹ P. Samuely,¹ Z. Pribulova,¹ M. Angst,² S. Bud’ko,² P. C.
Canfield,² and J. Marcus³

¹Centre of Low Temperature Physics, IEP Slovak Academy of Sciences and
P. J. Safarik University, Watsonova 47, SK-04001 Kosice, Slovakia

²Ames Laboratory, Iowa State University, Ames, Iowa 50011, USA

³LEPES CNRS, F-38042 Grenoble Cedex 9, France

21 March 2006200621 March 200620078 February 20 more considerable role.
The Effect of applied magnetic field on the PC spectra is used to study
the scattering processes within the two bands. A relative weight of the
intraband scattering is estimated from the fitting of the field
dependence of the PC spectra to a simple empirical model. Significant
changes in the relative weighting of the scattering are found in the
case of C doping because of the increased scattering particularly in the
π band. The Al doping does not change the relative weight of the
scatterings within the bands, and the samples seem to stay in the clean
limit.

## II Experiment

Polycrystalline samples Mg0.0Al0.1B2 and Mg0.0Al0.2B2 with T_(c)=30.5
and 23.5 K, respectively, have been prepared by a two-step synthesis at
high temperatures.[18] The carbon substituted samples Mg(B(1(1-y)C)2,
with y = 0.055, 0.065, and 0.1 and with corresponding transition
temperatures T_(c)=33, 28, and 22 K, were synthesized in the form of
pellets following the procedure described in Ref. [18] from magnesium
lumps and B4C powder. In the case of y=0.021 and 0.038, we have worked
with the wire segments exhibiting T_(c) =37.5, and 36.2 K,
respectively.[20] For the undoped MgB2, two kinds of samples have been
used: very clean MgB2 wires (the residual resistivity of 0.5 μΩ cm) with
T_(c)=39 K and the small upper critical magnetic fields H_(c21c)= 3
T,[20] compatible with the clean limit theoretical calculations,[21] and
the polycrystalline pellets prepared from boron and magnesium powder[4]
also with T_(c)=39 K but with a higher upper critical field H_(c21c)= 5
T in a dirty limit.

The point-contact measurements have been performed in the way described
previously.[12] The applied magnetic field was always oriented
perpendicular to the sample surface and parallel with the tip having the
point-contact area in the vortex state. The point-contact spectrum (the
differential conductance as a function of applied voltage) has been
theoretically described by the Blonder-Tinkham-Klapwijk (BTK) theory[22]
using as input parameters the energy gap Δ, the parameter z (measure for
the strength of the interface barrier), and the parameter Γ for the
spectral broadening.[23] In the case of two-gap superconductor, the
voltage-dependent normalized point-contact conductance can be expressed
as a weighted sum of two partial conductances g_(σ(π)), those from the
quasi-two-dimensional σ band (with a large gap Δ_(σ)) and those from the
three-dimensional π band (with a small gap Δ_(π)), as follows:

G/G_(a)(V) = αg_(π) + (1 − α)g_(σ).
(1)

The weight factor α for the π-band contribution can vary from 0.6 for
the point-contact current strictly in the MgB2 ab plane to 0.99 in the
_c_-axis direction.[24] The two-band BTK model does not include the
effect of interband scattering and is thus limited to a weak scattering
between the bands. Recently, Dolgov _et al.[25]_ have shown that an
increased interband scattering mixing the pairs in the two bands (the
states appear in the σ band at the energy range of the π-band gap) will
broaden the resulting total density of states. In this case also, the
point-contact spectrum will get broadened. Nevertheless, fitting to the
simple two-band BTK model can still provide a good estimate of the size
of the gaps if they are resolved in the measured spectrum.

## III Results and Discussion

A large number of the point-contact measurements have been performed on
the investigated samples of pure MgB2 and both substituted series. Since
the C doping leads the MgB2 samples deeply into the dirty limit (with an
increase of H_(c2) despite a decreased T_(c)), we have chosen the
undoped MgB2 sample being already in a dirty limit for a comparison with
the C-doped samples in the discussion about the effect of magnetic
field. On the other hand, the Al doping seems to keep the clean limit
conditions. Thus, we have chosen the pure MgB2 wire as a reference in
the studies of the magnetic-field effects. By trial and error, we looked
for the spectra showing both gaps in polycrystalline specimens. For more
detailed studies, we chose the junctions revealing the spectra with a
low spectral broadening Γ, i.e., with an intensive signal in the
normalized PC conductance. As a result, we succeeded in obtaining many
point-contact spectra with well resolved two superconducting gaps
directly visible in the raw data for all of the studied substitutions
except for the highest dopings, namely, Mg0.8Al0.2B2 and Mg(B0.9C0.1)2.
As shown in the following, the application of magnetic field can help
resolve the two gaps directly also in these cases. Figure 1 displays the
representative spectra of the Al-doped series. The upper curves in the
panels are the spectra in zero magnetic field, and the others display an
effect of the field. Figure 2 shows in the same way the results for the
C-doped

Figure 1: Influence of the applied magnetic field on the representative
point-contact spectra of Mg1–xAl3B2 samples measured at indicated
temperatures (solid lines). Open circles show the fitting curves for the
two-gap BTK model in zero and finite magnetic fields.

MgB₂. The experimental data are presented by the full lines, while the
fits to the two-gap formula are indicated by the open circles. The
fitting formula for the spectra in magnetic field is explained below.
All shown PC spectra have been normalized to the spectra measured in the
normal state at a temperature above T_(c).

The retention of two gaps for all dopings apart from the highest
substitution is evident already at zero magnetic field. For the highest
dopings (always with a larger spectral broadening, G = 0.2D), the
spectra reveal only one pair of peaks without an apparent shoulder at
the expected position of the second gap. The size of the apparent gap is
well indicated by the peak position, which is about 2 meV for
MgB0.8Al0.2B₂ and 1.6 meV for Mg(B0.9C0.1)2. However, this size is too
small to explain the superconductivity with the respective T_(c)’s equal
to 23.5 and 22 K within the single-gap BCS scenario. The presented data
document a strong effect of magnetic field on the π-band contribution to
the spectrum. The zero-field spectrum of the clean undoped MgB₂ measured
on the wire sample (bottom panel in Fig. 1) reveals a clear two-gap
structure. At small fields, the peak corresponding to the small gap
D_(π) is very rapidly suppressed and only the peak related to the large
gap D_(σ) is apparently visible above 1 T. At 10

In Fig. 2, the existence of both gaps is evidenced in a similar way for
the 6.5

The overall statistics of the energy gaps obtained from fitting of the
zero-field PC spectra to the two-band BTK formula is shown in Fig. 3 for
each C and Al concentration. The left coordinate indicates the
transition temperature of the junctions, while the right one counts the
number of junctions with the same size of the gaps. The energy width of
a particular count indicates the fitting uncertainty. All the samples,
the undoped MgB₂ as well as the Al- and C-doped materials,

Figure 3: Distribution of the superconducting energy gaps of
Mg(B(1–y)C)₂ (gray columns) and MgB1–xAl₁B₂ (open columns). The dashed
and dotted lines are guides for the eyes.

Figure 2: Influence of the applied magnetic field on the representative
point-contact spectra of Mg(B(1–y)C)₂ samples measured at indicated
temperatures (solid lines). Open circles show the fitting curves for the
two-gap BTK model in zero and finite magnetic fields.

reveal a certain distribution of the small and large gaps, but the two
gaps are well distinguishable in the histogram and no overlap of D_a_
and D_m_ is observed. Already from this figure, a general tendency is
evident, namely, that the reduction of the large gap is proportional to
the decreasing transition temperature. On the other hand, the changes in
the small gap are proportionally smaller.

Figure 4 summarizes the energy gaps as a function of _T__c_’s. The
points (open squares for Al dopings and solid circles for C ones) are
positioned at the averaged energies of the gap distributions in Fig. 3,
and the error bars represent the standard deviations. The large gap D_a_
is essentially decreased linearly with the corresponding _T__c_’s. The
behavior of D_a_’s is more complicated. For both kinds of substitution,
the gap is almost unchanged at smaller dopings. In the case of C-doped
MgB2, it clearly holds down to T_(c) = 33 K. In the case of (Mg,Al)B2,
D_m_ of the 10

Recently, similar results on the superconducting energy gaps have been
obtained with the Al-doped single crystals by Klein _et al._28 exploring
the specific heat as well as the PC spectroscopy measurements. Those
data also show a tendency of approaching of the two gaps with their
possible merging in the Al-doped samples with T_(c) below 10-15 K. It is
worth noticing that our previous results28 and those presented here show
neither a decrease of the large gap below the canonical BCS value16 nor
a drop of D_m_ below 1 meV (Ref. [17]) for the Al-doped MgB2 with
_T__c_’s below 30 K found earlier.

In contrast with the data obtained on C-doped single crystals by
Gonnelli _et al._,15 we have not found any stronger tendency to blend
both gaps down to T_(c) = 22 K. On the other hand, our data are very
compatible with the recent ARPES measurements of Tsuda _et al._,14 where
both gaps have been directly seen in the raw data down to T_(c) of 23 K.
A presence of the two gaps is also evidenced by the PC measurements of
Schmidt _et al._13 on the heavily carbon-doped MgB2. We remark that the
data showing no merging of the gaps on the heavily doped MgB2 with
_T__c_’s down to 22 K have been collected from the measurements on the
samples of different forms (wires, sintered pellets, and polycrystals)
prepared by different methods. It is also important that the two gaps
have been directly experimentally evidenced in the raw data without any
dependence on the model or fit.

Theoretical calculations of Erwin and Mazin29 on merging of the gaps due
to a substitution support the picture presented here. According to this
work, the carbon substitution on the boron site should have zero effect
on the merging of the gaps. This is due to the fact that replacing boron
by carbon does not change the local point symmetry in the p and s
orbitals which are both centered at the boron sites. Consequently, the
interband scattering will only increase if extra defects are
incorporated as a result of doping that produces a change of the
symmetry of the orbitals. On the other hand, much bigger effect is
expected for the out-of-plane substitutions (Al instead of Mg) or
defects which would indeed change the local point symmetry. The
substitution of Al instead of Mg leads also to a significant decrease of
the _c_-lattice parameter16 (it is basically useless in the case of
carbon doping), which helps the interlayer hopping from a p_(c) orbital
(_p_ band) in one atomic layer to a s bond orbital in the next one. Of
course, a particular strength of the interband scattering can vary among
samples due to a lack of control over defect type and their density.
Thus, the merging of the two gaps can indeed be strongly sample
dependent.

In the following paragraph, we will focus on more quantitative analysis
of the magnetic-field effect on the point-contact spectra of the Al- and
C-doped MgB2, which can yield information on the intraband scattering
processes in the samples. In both sets of the Al- and C-doped samples
shown in Figs. 1 and 2 strong effect of an applied magnetic field on the
_p_-band-gap peak has been observed. It is a consequence of a rapid
filling of the _p_-band-gap states up to a crossover _p_-band "upper
critical field" _H__c_2,m. At higher fields, the superconducting
properties are determined mainly by the s band, and the real upper
critical field can be identified with _H__c_2 = _H__c_2,m.30 If the
samples are in the clean superconducting limit, a magnitude of the upper
critical fields of the two bands can be estimated31 as
H_(c, 2, π) = Δ_(π)²/v_(F, π)² and H_(c2, σ) = Δ_(σ)²/v_(F, σ)² with
_v__F,m or _v__F,m the Fermi velocity of the respective band (since here
only _H__c_21c is considered, the anisotropy due to an effective mass
tensor is neglected). A similar estimate can be done in the dirty limit
by taking into account the

Figure 4: Averaged values of the superconducting energy gaps as a
function of the critical temperatures of Mg(B(1,-y)C)2 (solid circles)
and Mg1-μ,Al2B2 samples (open squares). The error bars represent the
standard deviations in the distribution shown in Fig. 3. For the lines,
see text.

respective diffusion coefficients D_(p)(_s_). Then, _H__c_2,p_(_s_) is
proportional to D_(p)(_s_)/_D__p_(_s_). Koshelev and Golubov have shown
in their model [32] that in a two-band superconductor in the dirty
limit, the gap filling in the presence of magnetic field is a function
of the intraband diffusivities. They have calculated maximum pair
potentials Dmax and averaged zero-energy densities of states N_(p)(_s_)
in both bands as a function of magnetic field normalized to the upper
critical one _H__c_2|_k_c_ and found that the field slope of
N_(p)(0,_H_) is very sensitive to the ratio of the diffusion
coefficients _D__s_/_D__p_.

Recently, Bugoslavsky _et al._ proposed an empirical model which enables
to infer the zero-energy averaged density of states as a function of
magnetic field from the PC conductance data measured in the mixed state.
[33] In this model, vortex cores represent a normal-state region n,
where n = _N_A_/_A_ is a factor characterizing the normal-state region
_N_A_ of the PC junction area A. This normal-state region and/or vortex
density increases linearly up to the upper critical magnetic field. In
order to take into account the normal cores of vortices, the
point-contact conductance will be a sum _G_/_G__N_(_V_) = n + (1 -
_n_)_g_, where n represents the normal-state channel and (1 - _n_)_g the
superconducting channel contribution normalized to the normal-state PC
conductance G_(N)(_V_). In the case of a two-gap superconductor, the
normalized PC conductance will be represented as a weighted sum of both
band contributions as follows:

G/G_(n)(V) ≈ α[n_(π) + (1 − n_(π))g_(π)] + (1 − α)[n_(σ) + (1 − n_(σ))g_(σ)].

Considering that n_(p) and n_(s) represent the number of normal-state
vortex-core excitations, these parameters can be identified with the
zero-energy density of states N_(p)(0,_H_) and N_(p)(0,_H_) averaged
over the vortex lattice. [34] In this way, the field dependent energy
gaps and zero-energy DOS _N_(0,_H_) can be determined.

Unfortunately, the fitting of the PC conductance of MgB2 in the mixed
state is not trivial because of the number of variables as many as 9.
Moreover, two pairs of the parameters N_(p) vs G and N_(s) vs G manifest
themselves very similarly in the fit. Hence, before fitting the spectra
the formula (2), we estimate N_(p)(0,_H_) values from the excess
currents I_(c), calculated from the PC spectra integrating the
superconducting area. Here, the following simplifications are made. For
the case of a two-gap superconductor, I_(c) is represented similarly,
like in formula (2), as a weighted sum of the both band contributions,
[35]I_(exc) = α(1 − n_(π))Δ_(π) + (1 − α)(1 − n_(σ))Δ_(σ). If the real
upper critical field _H__c_2 is large compared to _H__c_2,m, in the
region 0 < H < H < H < H < H < 2, the suppression of the _s_-band
contribution by the field can be neglected [_N__s_(0,_H_) = 0]. If we
also neglect a small reduction of the energy gaps at these fields,
[33,36] then I_(c)(_H_) can be represented by a single parameter formula
expressed as I_(exc) ∝ α[1 − N_(π)(0, H)]Δ_(π)(0) + (1 − α)Δ_(σ)(0),
since all other parameters [D_p_(0), D_p_(0), and _a_] have already been
determined from the BTK fit at H = 0. The resulting N_(p)(0,_H_) is
later used as a first approximation in the fit of the PC conductance
spectrum. There, also the values of z_(p), z_(s), G, G, and G determined
from BTK fits at H = 0 are kept unchanged. In the second step, all
parameters except for z_(p), z_(p) and a are adjusted for the best fit.
The fitting curves are shown in Figs. 1 and 2 by open circles. The
resulting values of N_(p)(0,_H_) are decreased by 5

The zero-energy DOS N_(p)(0,_H_) has been calculated for several point
contacts on every particular doped sample. In none of the cases a linear
increase of N_(p)(0,_H_) has been observed. On the contrary, a strong
nonlinearity observed in all curves points to two gaps in the
quasiparticle spectrum of the material. We ascribe a rapid increase of
N_(p)(0,_H_) at low magnetic fields to a strong filling of the
_p_-band-gap states up to the _p_-band crossover upper critical field
_H__c_2,m. Then, at higher fields, the low-temperature superconductivity
is maintained mainly by the s band, [30] with the s gap getting filled
smoothly up to the real upper critical field of the material
_H__c_2=_H_c_2,m. Due to a small but finite coupling of the two bands,
the superconductivity is maintained also in the p band above _H__c_2,m,
but as shown in the tunneling data of Eskildsen _et al._, [38] the
_p_-gap states are filled much more slowly here than in the low-field
region. Due to the measurements on the polycrystalline specimens, an
orientation of applied magnetic field with respect to the particular
crystallite under the point contact is not controlled, but independent
of the random-field orientation, the resulting N_(p)(0,_H_) dependencies
for a particular aluminum- or carbon-doped sample are practically
identical in the range of smaller fields up to 1 - 1.5 T. This fact
underlines an isotropic character of the p band in our samples.
Moreover, no change was observed in the field dependencies of
N_(p)(0,_H_) measured on the samples with different Al concentrations.
It suggests the unchanged upper critical field of the _p_-band _H__c_2,m
here. Then, the doping independent _H__c_2,m2/_p_F_2,m (the clean limit)
and almost constant D_p_ for x = 0 - 0.2 indicate that U_(F),m remains
also unchanged at this doping range. In the aluminum-doped MgB2, also
the real upper critical field _H__c_2|_k_c_2 remains unchanged and is
equal approximately to 3 T for all three dopings. [18] From this follows
the constant ratio between D_s_ and U_(F),s, so the electron filling of
the hole s band decreases both parameters proportionally. In Fig. 5(a),
the zero-energy DOSs N_(p)(0,_H_) are shown as a function of applied
field normalized to _H__c_2 respective H_(c2|k) (in Fig. 5 denoted as
h), it can be seen that the π-band crossover upper critical field
H_(c2, π) is enhanced stronger than H_(c2|c, σ). In the previous
paragraphs, we have shown that the ratio between the σ and π gaps is
approximately constant at different carbon concentrations. Then, the
change of the position of H_(c2, π) with respect to H_(c2|k) will be
given by an increase of the ratio of the diffusion coefficients
D_(σ)/D_(π). Figure 5(b) shows by the dashed line the calculations of
the model of Koshelev and Golubov [32] for D_(σ)/D_(π) =0.2,
corresponding well with the data from the undoped dirty MgB₂. It means
that the σ band in this case is dirtier than the π band. The subsequent
decrease of the low-field slope of N_(σ)(0, h) upon the C doping can be
explained by an increase of the D_(σ)/D_(π) ratio, i.e., by a more rapid
enhancement of the π-band intraband scattering as compared with the
scattering in the σ band. Indeed, the dotted line plotting the
theoretical N_(σ)(0, h) dependence at D_(σ)/D_(π)=1 indicates this
tendency.

## IV Conclusions

The comparative study between the Al- and C-doped MgB₂ on the inter- and
intraband scatterings has been performed by means of the point-contact
spectroscopy in magnetic field. It has been shown that the decreased
transition temperatures and the evolution of two superconducting energy
gaps upon both substitutions are mainly consequence of the band-filling
effect. However, especially in the case of Al doping, also an increase
of the interband scattering has to be taken into account to explain the
behavior of both gaps as a function of T_(c). By the analysis of the
field effect on the point-contact spectra, it has been shown that the C
doping increases the scattering in the π band more rapidly than in the σ
band. On the other hand, the Al doping does not introduce significant
scatterings within the two bands and the samples remain in the clean
limit.

## Acknowledgments

This work has been supported by the Slovak Research and Development
Agency under Contract No. APVT-51-016604. Centre of Low Temperature
Physics is operated as the Centre of Excellence of the Slovak Academy of
Sciences. Ames Laboratory is operated for the U.S. Department of Energy
by Iowa State University under Contract No. W-7405-Eng-82. This work was
supported by the Director for Energy Research, Office of Basic Energy
Sciences. The liquid nitrogen for the experiment has been sponsored by
the U.S. Steel Kosice, s.r.o.

## References

* [1] J. Nagamatsu, N. Nakagawa, T. Muranaka, Y. Zenitani, and J.
Akimitsu, Nature (London) **410**, 63 (2001). * [2] A. Y. Liu, I. I.
Mazin, and J. Kortus, Phys. Rev. Lett. **87**, 087005 (2001). * [3] H.
J. Choi, D. Roundy, H. Sun, M. L. Cohen, and S. G. Louie, Nature
(London) **418**, 758 (2002); Phys. Rev. B **66**, 020513(R) (2002). *
[4] P. Szabo, P. Samuely, J. Kacmarcik, T. Klein, J. Marcus, D.
Fruchart, S. Miraglia, C. Marcenat, and A. G. M. Jansen, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **87**, 137005 (2001). * [5] F. Giubileo, D. Roditchev, W. Sacks,
R. Lamy, D. X. Thanh, J. Klein, S. Miraglia, D. Fruchart, J. Marcus, and
Ph. Monod, Phys. Rev. Lett. **87**, 177008 (2001). * [6] M. Iavarone, G.
Karapetrov, A. E. Koshelev, W. K. Kwok, G. W. Crabtree, D. G. Hinks, W.
N. Kang, E.-M. Choi, H. J. Kim, H.-J. Kim, and S.-I. Lee, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **89**, 187002 (2002). * [7] P. Martinez-Samper, J. G. Rodrigo, G.
Rubio-Bollinger, H. Suderow, S. Vieira, S. Lee, and S. Tajima, Physica C
**385**, 233 (2003). * [8] S. Tsuda, T. Yokoya, Y. Takano, H. Kito, A.
Matsushita, F. Yin, J. Itoh, H. Harima, and S. Shin, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**91**, 127001 (2003). * [9] I. I. Mazin, O. K. Andersen, O. Jepsen, A.
A. Golubov, O. V. Dolgov, and J. Kortus, Phys. Rev. B **69**, 056501
(2004). * [10] J. Kortus, O. V. Dolgov, R. K. Kremer, and A. A. Golubov,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **94**, 027002 (2005).

Figure 5: (a) Zero-energy DOS N_(π)(0, h) of Mg_(1 − x)Al₁B₂ determined
from the fitting to the two-band mixed-state BTK formula. The applied
field has been rescaled to the value of H_(c2|k)^(m)³ T (Ref. 18). (b)
N_(π)(0, h) of Mg(B_((1 − y))C_(y))₂. The applied field has been
rescaled to H_(c2|k)^(m)⁵ S, 8, and 8 T. (Refs. 4 and 39) The dashed and
dotted lines represent the theoretical predictions of N_(π)(0, h) (Ref.
32) for the dirty MgB₂ samples with the ratios of in-plane diffusivities
D_(σ)/D_(π)=0.2 and 1, respectively. The solid lines are guides for the
eyes.

11] P. Samuely, P. Szabo, P. C. Canfield, and S. L. Bud’ko, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **95**, 099701 (2005); J. Kortus, O. V. Dolgov, R. K. Kremer, and
A. A. Golubov, _ibid._**95**, 099702 (2005). * [12] Z. Holanova, P.
Szabo, P. Samuely, R. H. T. Wilke, S. L. Bud’ko, and P. C. Canfield,
Phys. Rev. B **70**, 064520 (2004); P. Samuely, Z. Holanova, P. Szabo,
J. Kacmarcik, R. A. Ribeiro, S. L. Bud’ko, and P. C. Canfield,
_ibid._**68**, 020505(R) (2003). * [13] H. Schmidt, K. E. Gray, D. G.
Hinks, J. F. Zasadzinski, M. Avdeev, J. D. Jorgensen, and J. C. Burley,
Phys. Rev. B **68**, 060508(R) (2003). * [14] Tsuda, T. Yokoya, T. Kiss,
T. Shimojima, S. Shin, T. Togashi, S. Watanabe, C. Zhang, C. T. Chen, S.
Lee, H. Uchiyama, S. Tajima, N. Nakai, and K. Machida, Phys. Rev. B
**72**, 064527 (2005). * [15] R. S. Gonnelli, D. Daghero, A. Calzolari,
G. A. Ummarino, V. Dell’amoroca, V. A. Stepanov, S. M. Kazakov, N.
Zhigadlo, and J. Karpinski, Phys. Rev. B **71**, 060503(R) (2005). *
[16] M. Putti, M. Affronte, P. Manfrinetti, and P. Palenzona, Phys. Rev.
B **68**, 094514 (2003). * [17] J. Karpinski, N. D. Zhigadlo, G. Schuck,
S. M. Kazakov, B. Batlogg, K. Rogacki, R. Puzniak, J. Jun, E. Muller, P.
Wagli, R. S. Gonnelli, D. Daghero, G. A. Ummarino, and V. A. Stepanov,
Phys. Rev. B **71**, 174506 (2005). * [18] M. Angst, S. L. Bud’ko, R. H.
T. Wilke, and P. C. Canfield, Phys. Rev. B **71**, 144512 (2005). * [19]
A. Gurevich, Phys. Rev. B **67**, 184515 (2003). * [20] R. H. T. Wilke,
S. L. Bud’ko, P. C. Canfield, D. K. Finnemore, R. J. Suplinskas, and S.
T. Hannahs, Phys. Rev. Lett. **92**, 217003 (2004). * [21] T. Dahm and
N. Schopohl, Phys. Rev. Lett. **91**, 017001 (2003); P. Miranovic, K.
Machida, and V. G. Kogan, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **72**, 221 (2003). * [22]
G. E. Blonder, M. Tinkham, and T. M. Klapwijk, Phys. Rev. B **25**, 4515
(1982). * [23] A. Plecenik, M. Grajcar, S. Benakka, P. Seidel, and A.
Pfuch, Phys. Rev. B **49**, 10016 (1996). * [24] A. Brinkman, A. A.
Golubov, H. Rogalla, O. V. Dolgov, J. Kortus, Y. Kong, O. Jepsen, and O.
K. Andersen, Phys. Rev. B **65**, 180517(R) (2002). * [25] O. V. Dolgov,
R. K. Kremer, J. Kortus, A. A. Golubov, and S. V. Shulga, Phys. Rev. B
**72**, 024504 (2005). * [26] P. Samuely, P. Szabo, J. Kacmarcik, and T.
Klein, Physica C **385**, 244 (2003). * [27] R. A. Ribeiro, S. L.
Bud’ko, C. Petrovic, and P. C. Canfield, Physica C **384**, 227
(2003). * [28] T. Klein, L. Lyard, J. Marcus, C. Marcenat, P. Szabo, Z.
Hofanova, P. Samuely, B. W. Kang, H.-J. Kim, H.-S. Lee, H.-K. Lee, and
S.-I. Lee, Phys. Rev. B **73**, 224528 (2006). * [29] S. C. Erwin and I.
I. Mazin, Phys. Rev. B **68**, 132505 (2003). * [30] V. G. Kogan and S.
L. Bud’ko, Physica C **385**, 131 (2003). * [31] F. Bouquet, Y. Wang, I.
Sheikin, T. Plackowski, A. Junod, S. Lee, and S. Tajima, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **89**, 257001 (2002). * [32] A. E. Koshelev and A. A. Golubov,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **90**, 177002 (2004). * [33] Y. Bugoslavsky, Y.
Miyoshi, G. K. Perkins, A. D. Caplin, L. F. Cohen, A. V. Pogrebnyakov,
and X. X. Xi, Phys. Rev. B **72**, 224506 (2005). * [34] We remark that
the simple empirical expressions for the PC conductance is not
restricted to a dirty or clean limit case. * [35] Yu. G. Naidyuk, O. E.
Kvitnitskaya, I. K. Yanson, S. Lee, and S. Tajima, Solid State Commun.
**133**, 363 (2005). * [36] P. Samuely, P. Szabo, J. Kacmarcik, and T.
Klein, Physica C **404**, 460 (2004). * [37] P. Szabo, P. Samuely, Z.
Holanova, S. Bud’ko, P. C. Canfield, and J. Marcus, in _Low Temperature
Physics_, edited by Y. Takano, S. P. Hershfield, S. O. Hill, P. J.
Hirschfeld, and A. M. Goldman, AIP Conf. Proc. No. 850 (AIP, New York,
2006), p. 599. * [38] M. R. Eskildsen, M. Kugler, S. Tanaka, J. Jun, S.
M. Kazakov, J. Karpinski, and O. Fischer, Phys. Rev. Lett. **89**,
187003 (2002). * [39] R. H. T. Wilke, P. Samuely, P. Szabo, Z. Holanova,
S. L. Bud’ko, P. C. Canfield, and D. K. Finnemore, Physica C (to be
published).
