# High-pressure oxidation of the tetragonal La1.5-_x_Ba1.5+_x_-yCa3O2
superconductors

J. M. S. Skakle and E. E. Lachowski

Department of Chemistry, University of Aberdeen, Meston Walk, Aberdeen
AB24 3UE, Scotland, United Kingdom

R. I. Smith

ISIS, Rutherford Appleton Laboratory, Chilton, Didcot, Oxon, OX11 OQX,
United Kingdom

A. R. West

Department of Chemistry, University of Aberdeen, Meston Walk, Aberdeen
AB24 3UE, Scotland, United Kingdom

5 September
199619961996199619961996199619961996199619961996199619619961961996196
well beyond 2.33, the sample becomes overdoped and T_(c) decreases.

Examples of overdoping of YBCO are known, but these are not associated
with oxygen contents, z> 7. Thus YBCO itself is regarded as being
slightly overdoped at z = 7 and the optimum oxygen content is nearer to
z = 6.95.[13] On aliovalent substitution of Y by Ca, with compensating
hole creation, the T_(c) maximum occurs at lower oxygen contents, e.g.,
at 84 K and z = 6.85 for Y_(0.8)Ca_(0.2)Ba₂Cu₃O_(z). In several
respects, therefore, the La336-based materials behave differently to
YBCO. Here, we report a more extensive study of their overdoping at high
oxygen contents.

The La336:Ca solid solutions are located on the pseudoternary phase
diagram LaCuO_(x)-BaCuO_(x)-CaCuO_(z), as shown in Fig. 1.[9] They have
general formula La_(1.5 − x)Ba_(1.5 + x − y)Ca_(y)Cu₃O_(z). With
reaction conditions involving heating in air at ∼ 950 ^(∘)C, the solid
solutions form for all x and y in the ranges 0<x,y<0.5, apart from those
in the corner close to the La123 stoichiometry with x = 0.5, y = 0.
La123 can, by contrast, be prepared by reaction in low partial pressures
of O₂,[14] although under these conditions, the La336:Ca solid solutions
are not stable.

Numerous other studies on Ca-doped La123-La336 materials have been
reported. With the exception of one study in which a solid solution area
was identified but not fully characterized,[15] these studies have
generally focused on specific substitution mechanisms. Although not
explicitly treated as such, these mechanisms can be rationalized and
represented in terms of the phase diagram, as shown in Fig. 1(b). Some
of these studies started from La336; thus, direction 1 considers
compositions on the line between La336 and CaCuO₂, in which the most
likely solid solution mechanism would be La +Ba = 2Ca.[16, 17, 18]
Direction 2 starts with the stoichiometry La347 (i.e., x = 0.43, y = 0)
to which the partial substitution Ba = Ca is made.[19] Direction 2^(′)
is parallel to direction 2 but starts with the composition La5712 (i.e.,
x = 0.50, y = 0).[20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32,
33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50,
51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58, 59, 60 above. Samples were placed in
cylindrical V cans and data collected on the POLARIS diffractometer at
the UK Spallation neutron source, ISIS at Rutherford Appleton
Laboratory. The crystal structures were refined by the Rietveld method
using the program TF14LS,[29, 30] using data collected over the
time-of-flight range 2000-19500 _m_s using the highest resolution,
backscattering detectors. Scattering lengths were taken from Sears.[31]

The homogeneity of the high-pressure-annealed samples was checked by
electron probe microanalysis (EPMA) using a Cameca SX51 EPMA.
Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and selected area electron
diffraction (SAED) were performed on a JEOL TEMSCAN instrument.

## RESULTS

Ten samples were prepared with compositions, given by the general
formula La1,5-x8Ba1,5+x-yCaCu3O5, in the range 0<=_x_<=0.5, 0<=_y_<=0.5,
Table 1, as described previously[9, 11] and confirmed to be phase pure
by x-ray powder diffraction, in agreement with the phase diagram[9]. The
samples fall into two groups, those with the nominal replacement La=Ca,
i.e., with _x_=_y_ in the general formula, and those with the
replacement Ba=Ca, i.e., with _x_=_0 and varying y. These samples were
then divided into several portions and heated in a range of oxygen
pressures at 400 degC. All samples were subsequently analyzed by
thermogravimetry (to obtain z, using methods described in Ref. 9), ac
susceptometry (to obtain T_(c)) and x-ray powder diffraction (to check
phase purity). Results are summarized in Table 1. Some samples were
additionally examined by EPMA (to confirm phase purity and perform
elemental analysis), TEM (to confirm unit cell symmetry and look for the
possible presence of supercell formation), and x-ray and neutron powder
diffraction (for lattice parameters and Rietveld refinement). Results
for the latter are given in Table 2.

The oxygen content as a function of annealing pressure for one
composition, _x_=_y_=0.4, and for pressures between 0.21 and 350 bar O2
is shown in Fig. 2. These data are typical of all compositions studied
in that z increases with pressure, without any indication of reaching a
pressure-independent limit; see Table 1. The data are approximately
linear over the range 1-350 bars O2. We have not studied oxygen contents
at subambient pressures but note that the oxygen contents in 1 bar air
and O2 differ significantly. It is possible, therefore, that a second
regime of pressure dependence occurs for pressures below about 1 bar O2.
We note also that the region 1-50 bars corresponds to a crystallographic
change in the _A_-site distribution (see later) and to a discontinuity
in lattice parameters (Fig. 7; see later) Further work is required to
establish whether two regions of pressure dependence do, in fact, occur
and whether these are linked to different _A_-site arrangements.

For the same composition and samples, T_(c) is plotted against z in Fig.
3. The plot clearly passes through a maximum at _z_ 7.05, corresponding
to an average Cu valence of 2.33. It is notable that for this
composition, _x_=_y_=0.4, T_(c) is not optimized in samples annealed
under 1 bar oxygen; on high-pressure annealing, T_(c) first increases to
a maximum of 79 K, then falls as low as 35 K upon annealing at 350 bars.

Data for the other nine compositions studied were analyzed similarly;
see Table 1; all the data are collected onto a master diagram in Fig. 4,
apart from those for the undoped composition, _x_=_y_=0, which was found
to be semiconducting under all conditions and whose behavior is totally
anomalous in comparison with that of the doped samples.

Table 2: Refined structural parameters for LaBa_(1.5)Ca_(0.5)Cu_(0.7)
from neutron diffraction data. [In the final refinement, the Ba/Ca and
La site occupancies were fixed as 0.75:0.25 and 1.00, respectively, as
in the text. These occupancies were deduced from earlier refinements in
which the isotropic temperature factors, ITF, were held constant and the
site occupancies refined. In all cases, there was no evidence for Ca
occupying the La site and the Ba:Ca ratio refined to within 2 e.s.d’s of
0.75:0.25 (where one e.s.d. = ± 0.01).]

Figure 3: Critical temperature as a function of oxygen content and
average Cu valence for x = y = 0.4. Same data as for Fig. 2.

Figure 2: Oxygen content of composition x = y = 0.4 as a function of
oxygen pressure.

tents below about 7. Between 7 and 7.05, a rapid decrease occurs,
especially in **c**; at higher oxygen contents the cell parameters again
decrease more gradually. A smooth variation of the unit cell parameters
with oxygen content might be expected; it is likely, therefore, that
some additional structural changes other than simple intercalation of
oxygen into the basal sites may cause the anomalous decrease in the unit
cell parameters.

The exception to the above pattern of behavior is shown by the undoped
composition x = y = 0.0, La15Ba15Cu3O5, in which the lattice parameters
show a simple smooth change with annealing pressure and hence with
oxygen content; see Fig. 7(c). For this composition, it would seem that
the addition of oxygen, causing the oxidation of Cu and concomitant
decrease in the unit cell dimensions, is the only change that occurs on
high-pressure annealing and that there are no additional structural
changes at intermediate oxygen contents.

In order to investigate possible structural changes,
high-pressure-annealed samples of composition x = y = 0.5, together with
samples prepared at ambient pressure were studied by neutron
diffraction. In all cases, both La and Ca were placed on both sets of A
sites initially, to give (La0.75Ca0.25)(Ba15Ca0.25Ca0.25)Cu3O5, and the
cation site occupancies were refined within the overall constraint that
the cation stoichiometry was fixed at the nominal value of LaBa15Ca0.5.
The unit cell dimensions obtained from the refinements are shown in Fig.
8, for samples annealed at both ambient (open circles) and high
pressures (solid squares) of oxygen. Again, there is a marked
discontinuity in the size of the unit cell dimensions between the
samples treated at high and ambient pressures, similar to that shown in
Fig. 7 for the x-ray diffraction analyses.

Figure 4: Master plot of T_(c) vs average Cu valence for all Ca-doped
samples together with linear dependence observed in quenched samples.

Figure 5: Electron diffraction pattern:_h_k_0 section of the reciprocal
lattice for composition x = y = 0.4 after heating at 350 bars O2.

Figure 6: Electron diffraction pattern:h01 section and corresponding
lattice image for the same sample as in Fig. 5.

Figure 7: (a) Lattice parameters obtained at room temperature and
pressure vs pressure used for high-pressure oxygen anneals for a range
of Ca-doped samples. (b) As in (a), lattice parameters vs oxygen content
for composition x = y = 0.5 (LaB_(4.1)Ca_(0.5)Cu₃O₂); x-ray diffraction
analysis. (c) As in (a), lattice parameters vs oxygen content for
composition x = y = 0.0 (La_(1.5)Ba_(4.5)Cu₃O₂).

The cation site occupancies obtained from the Rietveld refinement, Table
2, also fall into two sets. For the samples annealed at ambient
pressure, Ca was found to occupy the La site with concomitant
displacement of La onto the Ba site to give the formula

$$({\rm La}_{0.5}{\rm Ca}_{0.5})({\rm Ba}_{1.5}{\rm La}_{0.5}){\rm Cu}_{3}{\rm O}_{ \varepsilon}\,.$$

This is in agreement with our earlier results obtained from x-ray powder
diffraction data.[11] In the high-pressure-annealed samples, however, Ca
was found to occupy the Ba site, to give the formula

$$({\rm La})({\rm Ba}_{1.5}{\rm Ca}_{0.5}){\rm Cu}_{3}{\rm O}_{\varepsilon}\,.$$

This structural change appears to correlate with the anomaly in the unit
cell parameters at z = 7.00-7.05; see Figs. 7 and 8.

To test the stability of the high-pressure form of the LaBCCO structure,
a sample prepared under 350 bars of oxygen, x = y = 0.5, z = 7.18, was
heated to 650 degC under vacuum in a furnace at the Rutherford Appleton
Laboratory and neutron diffraction data collected _in situ_ as a
function of temperature. Data sets were collected at 50 degC intervals
and the structure refined as before. Results are summarized in Table 3.
Lattice parameters as a function of temperature are shown in Fig. 9.
Superposed on a gradual increase in **a** and **c**, there is a
discontinuity at 300-350 degC. The lattice parameters, however, are
likely to be affected by oxygen content as well as temperature and both
vary during this experiment. Oxygen contents, obtained from Rietveld
refinement of the high temperature data are shown as a function of
temperature in Fig. 10. They are approximately constant to 300 degC,
undergo a rapid decrease at 300-350 degC followed by a more gradual,
approximately linear decrease up to the highest tem

Figure 8: As in Fig. 7(a), lattice parameters vs oxygen content for
composition x = y = 0.5; neutron diffraction analysis.

Figure 9: Lattice parameters obtained as a function of temperature for
composition x = y = 0.5 after high-pressure oxygenation; sample heated
under vacuum.

perature studied, 650 degC. The loss of oxygen below 350 degC
corresponds to that gained during the high-pressure-annealing treatment.

The results of Figs. 9 and 10 are combined in Fig. 11 to give lattice
parameters as a function of oxygen content. Data are essentially linear
for both **a** and **c**; the unit cell contracts as oxygen is
intercalated into the structure, consistent with the increased average
oxidation state of Cu leading to stronger, shorter Cu-O bonds. It should
be remembered that the data shown in Fig. 11 also have temperature as a
variable; since the crystal structure presumably expands with
temperature, any expansion effects are superposed on the variation with
oxygen content. Nevertheless, assuming a typical expansion coefficient
of 1 x 10-5 degC-1, the changes shown in Fig. 11 are three orders of
magnitude larger. It can be concluded, therefore, that the data shown in
Fig. 11 are largely uninfluenced by thermal expansion effects.

The Rietveld refinement results showed that the occupancy of the A sites
was essentially unchanged on heating, i.e., that Ca partially occupied
the Ba sites. Thus, for this composition at least, it is possible to
prepare materials with a range of oxygen contents but with different
_A_-site distributions: in the high-pressure treated sample and after
heating subsequently, in vacuum, at temperatures up to 650 degC, Ca
occupies the Ba sites whereas in the originally prepared sample which
was not subjected to high-pressure oxygenation, the alternative A site
distribution (CaLa+LaBa, i.e., Ca occupies the La sites and La occupies
the Ba sites), was found.

From the Rietveld refinement results, Table 3, bond length data
involving Cu were extracted and are plotted against oxygen content in
Fig. 12. In all cases, the Cu-O and Cu-Cu bonds show a linear variation
with z. Again, the data were obtained at different temperatures, but the
effects of thermal expansion are negligible in comparison with the
effect of varying oxygen content, z.

For other compositions within the solid solution area, it has not yet
been possible to use neutron diffraction to investigate the cation
distributions. Figure 7 shows the variation of lattice parameters as
determined by x-ray diffraction with annealing pressure, (a), and for
one composition, with oxygen content (b); the lattice parameters of all
compositions, apart from x = y = 0. showed a marked drop upon annealing
under pressure. It is implied, therefore, that the structural changes
found in LaBa1,Ca0,Cu3O2 (_x_ = y = 0.5) on high pressure treatment are
also responsible for a similar anomalous change in lattice parameters of
the other doped compositions. The behavior of the undoped composition x
= y = 0 is different; it shows little sign of any anomaly in lattice
parameters, Fig. 7(c). No transition in _A_-site distribution is
anticipated, therefore, consistent with the fact that this composition
contains no Ca2+ ions.

## Discussion

The results obtained by high-pressure annealing show that the oxygen
content of La336:Ca solid solutions can be increased by treatment at low
temperatures (400 degC); the maximum achieved was 7.25 using a pressure
of 350 bars. The graph of oxygen content versus pressure did not reach a
plateau, indicating that higher values of oxygen content could be
achieved under higher pressures; there is no indication of any
decomposition at high oxygen pressures, such as occurs with Y123. In
theory, because the 123-336 type structure is an oxygen-deficient triple
perovskite, it should be possible to increase the oxygen content to 9.

By increasing the oxygen content of the La336:Ca solid solutions, the
overdoped region of the system has been accessed; the maximum in T_(c)
is clearly shown. Similar behavior is well known for systems such as
La2-_BaCuO4_ and the BiSCCO’s; it has not been demonstrated clearly
before in these structures although it has been suggested as a
possibility for La123.32 In Y123, overdoping was achieved only by
aliovalent doping (e.g., Ca2+ substituting for Y3+) (see, e.g., Refs.
[13; 33; 34]); it has not been possible to overdope Y123 by increasing
the oxygen content.

Figure 11: Lattice parameters vs oxygen content; data obtained from
Figs. 9 and 10.

Figure 10: Oxygen content vs temperature for the sample and data used in
Fig. 9. The variation in oxygen content was achieved by heating the
sample under vacuum and was determined from site occupancies obtained by
Rietveld refinement of the high temperature neutron diffraction data.

The curve of critical temperature vs Cu valence appears to be universal
for doped samples in the La_(1.5 − x)Ba_(1.5 + x − y)Ca_(x)Cu_(y)O_(z)
system, see Fig. 4. The "336" phase does not, however, fit the general
trend. Despite an earlier report of a T_(c) of 15 K [35]; it appears to
be well established that La_(1.5)Ba_(1.5)Cu_(y)O_(z) is semiconducting.
One reason suggested was that the Cu valence is too low for
superconductivity. However, if we were to regard the T_(c) vs Cu valence
curve as universal for the La_(1.5 − x)Ba_(1.5 + x − y)Ca_(x)Cu_(y)O_(z)
system, then La_(1.5)Ba_(1.5)Cu_(y)O_(7.08) (Cu Valence=2.22) should
have a critical temperature of around 55 K. This was clearly not the
case. Samples doped with ≈ 10

The A-site cation arrangement of high-pressure-annealed samples differs
from that of the as-prepared samples, and is kinetically stable in this
arrangement up to at least 650 ^(∘)C. In the related systems YBa₂Cu₄O₈
(124) and Y₂Ba₄Cu_(y)O₁₅ (247), there has been much controversy in the
literature as to the substitution mechanism when the dopant ion is Ca.
Ca²⁺ is of similar size to Y³⁺, but the same valence as Ba²⁺ and so may,
in theory, substitute to some degree on either site. The most recent
neutron diffraction results (e.g., Refs. [36, 37, 38, 39]) indicate that
Ca substitutes on the Y sites of Y-124 prepared at high pressure.
Buckley _et al._ prepared samples both at high pressure and at ambient,
[34] and for both these conditions Ca was shown to substitute at both
sites. Zhang, however, demonstrated that Ca substitution closely mimics
the effect of external pressure, [40] and that Ca must substitute on Ba
sites; NQR (nuclear quadrupole resonance) and EELS results largely
support this deduction. [41, 42, 43] Similar ambiguities exist over the
substitution of Ca into Y₂Ba₄Cu_(y)O₁₅. [34, 36, 44] Here, for the
composition LaBa_(1.5)Ca_(0.5)Cu_(y)O_(z), we have demonstrated that Ca
can substitute for either La or Ba, depending on the preparation
conditions. It is possible that differing preparative conditions could
be responsible for the differing results in the Y-124 and 247 systems.

The existence of a single master curve of T_(c) vs average Cu valence,
Fig. 4, similar to that observed with other cuprate systems, [45]
implies that hole concentration is the key parameter controlling T_(c)
for a given structure. In the underdoped region of Fig. 4, however, the
data show some scatter which indicates that additional factors influence
T_(c). In a series of papers [20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27] concerning
materials in direction 2^(′), Fig. 1, for which the overall A-site
cation charge (La+Ba+Ca) is constant at 7.25(+), Goldschmidt _et al._
have shown that a range of T_(c) values is possible at constant oxygen
content. They interpret this as arising from variable degrees of
internal charge transfer between the two types of Cu sites in the
crystal structure. Additional evidence for the possibility of internal
charge transfer, although not explicitly recognized as such, comes from
the observation of "double plateau" behavior in the plot of T_(c) vs
oxygen content of a La123:Ca solid solution composition, x = y = 0.5:
[46] materials that were cooled rapidly showed a linear dependence of
T_(c) on oxygen content, whereas slowly cooled samples showed somewhat
higher-T_(c) values and a double plateau dependence on oxygen content.

The data shown in Fig. 4 are for samples that had been cooled to ambient
over a period of several hours after high-pressure oxygenation at 400
^(∘)C. These are compared with those that were quenched to ambient after
annealing at 1 bar in Fig. 4; data on materials quenched after
high-pressure oxygenation are not available. This clearly shows that the
slowly cooled samples have a higher T_(c) , by up to 25 K depending on
oxygen content, than the rapidly quenched samples. Hence the master
curve of T_(c) vs oxygen content

Figure 12: Selected bond lengths vs oxygen content for composition
x = y = 0.5.

applies strictly to samples prepared under similar conditions. If the
conditions vary, such as using different cooling rates, then departures
from the master curve behavior occur.

## Conclusions

The oxygen content of La336:Ca solid solutions can be increased by
high-pressure oxygenation, the samples become overdoped and T_(c)
decreases. This behavior contrasts with that of Y 123 which decomposes
at high oxygen pressures. The T_(c) data for a wide range of cation
contents fall on a master curve of T_(c) vs average Cu valence, thus
showing that hole concentration is the main factor that controls T_(c)
for materials in this structural family. In the underdoped region, there
is some scatter in the experimental T_(c) data and this is attributed to
varying degrees of internal charge transfer which effectively allows the
hole concentration to vary without any change in overall composition.
For a given composition, the degree of internal charge transfer may vary
systematically with temperature and hence, the cooling rate after
synthesis is an important variable in controlling the hole concentration
and T_(c).

## Acknowledgments

We thank EPSRC for financial support and for the provision of neutron
beam time, Dr. A. Coats for EPMA analyses, and Dr. Colin Greaves for
helpful discussions on substituted YBCO’s.

## References

* [1] K. Conder, J. Karpinski, E. Kaldis, S. Rusiecki, and E. Jilek,
Physica C **196**, 164 (1992). * [2] C. U. Segre, B. Dabrowski, D. G.
Hinks, K. Zhang, J. D. Jorgensen, M. A. Beno, and I. K. Schuller, Nature
**329**, 227 (1987). * [3] T. Wada, N. Suzuki, A. Maeda, T. Yabe, K.
Uchinokura, S. Uchida, and S. Tanaka, Phys. Rev. B **39**, 9129
(1989). * [4] K. Zhang, B. Dabrowski, C. U. Segre, D. G. Hinks, I. K.
Schuller, J. D. Jorgensen, and M. Slaski, J. Phys. C **20**, L935
(1987). * [5] J. M. S. Skakle and A. R. West, Physica C **261**, 105
(1996). * [6] W. I. F. David, W. T. A. Harrison, R. M. Ibberson, M. T.
Weller, J. R. Granseder, and P. Lanchester, Nature **328**, 328
(1987). * [7] S. A. Sunshine, L. F. Schneemeyer, J. V. Waszczak, D. W.
Murphy, S. Miraglia, A. Santoro, and F. Beech, J. Cryst. Growth **85**,
632 (1987). * [8] C. C. Torardi, E. M. McCarron, M. A. Subramanian, A.
W. Sleight, and D. E. Cox, Mater. Res. Bull. **22**, 1563 (1987). * [9]
J. M. S. Skakle and A. R. West, Physica C **220**, 187 (1994). * [10] J.
M. S. Skakle and A. R. West, Physica C **241**, 191 (1995). * [11] J. M.
S. Skakle and A. R. West, Physica C **227**, 336 (1994). * [12] J. M. S.
Skakle, A. Coats, and A. R. West (unpublished). * [13] J. L. Tallon and
N. E. Flower, Physica C **204**, 237 (1993). * [14] J. M. S. Skakle and
A. R. West, J. Mater. Chem. **4**, 1745 (1994). * [15] T. Mertelj, P.
Stastny, F. C. Matacota, P. Ganguly, C. U. Segre, and D. Mihailovic,
Physica C **183**, 11 (1991). * [16] S. Engelsberg, Physica C **176**,
451 (1991). * [17] R. A. Gunasekaran, J. V. Yakhmi, and R. M. Iyer,
Physica C **208**, 143 (1993). * [18] H-C. I. Kao, Y. D. Leu, W. N.
Huang, C-M. Wang, D. H. Chen, and T. J. Lee, Supercond. Sci. Technol.
**9**, 893 (1996). * [19] D. S. Wu, Y. F. Yang, H.-C. I. Kao, and C. M.
Wang, Physica C **212**, 32 (1993). * [20] D. Goldschmidt, G. M.
Reisner, Y. Direktovich, A. Knizhnik, E. Garstein, G. Kimmel, and Y.
Eckstein, Physica C **217**, 217 (1993). * [21] D. Goldschmidt, G. M.
Reisner, Y. Direktovitch, A. Knizhnik, E. Garstein, G. Kimmel, and Y.
Eckstein, Phys. Rev. B **48**, 532 (1993). * [22] D. Goldschmidt, Y.
Direktovitch, A. Knizhnik, and Y. Eckstein, Phys. Rev. Lett. **71**,
3392 (1993). * [23] D. Goldschmidt, A. Knizhnik, Y. Direktovitch, G. M.
Reisner, and Y. Eckstein, Phys. Rev. B **49**, 15 928 (1994). * [24] D.
Goldschmidt, Y. Direktovitch, A. Knizhnik, and Y. Eckstein, Phys. Rev. B
**51**, 6739 (1995). * [25] D. Goldschmidt, A. Knizhnik, Y.
Direktovitch, G. M. Reisner, and Y. Eckstein, Phys. Rev. B **52**, 12
982 (1995). * [26] C. Chabaud, Y. Direktovitch, I. Gertner, G. M.
Reisner, A. Knizhnik, D. Goldschmidt, Y. Eckstein, and G. Koren, Physica
C **261**, 33 (1996). * [27] D. Goldschmidt, A.-K. Klehe, J. S.
Schilling, and Y. Eckstein, Phys. Rev. B **53**, 14 631 (1996). * [28]
V. P. Sirotinkin, O. I. Eshniyazov, D. R. Tursunova, A. A. Evdokimov,
and P. A. Arsen’ev, Russ. J. Inorg. Chem. **35**, 1706 (1990). * [29] R.
I. Smith and S. Hull (unpublished). * [30] W. I. F. David, R. M.
Ibberson, and J. C. Matthewman (unpublished). * [31] V. F. Sears,
Neutron News **3**, 26 (1992). * [32] K. Otzschi, A. Hayashi, and Y.
Ueda, Physica C **235**, 839 (1994). * [33] Y. Tokura, J. B. Torrance,
F. C. Huang, and A. I. Nazzal, Phys. Rev. B **38**, 7156 (1988). * [34]
R. G. Buckley, D. M. Pooke, J. L. Tallon, M. R. Pressland, N. E. Flower,
M. P. Staines, H. L. Johnson, M. Meylan, G. V. M. Williams, and M.
Bowden, Physica C **174**, 383 (1991). * [35] X. Sishen, Y. Cuiging, W.
Xiaojing, C. Guangcan, F. Hanje, C. Wei, Z. Yuqing, Z. Zhongzian, Y.
Qiansheng, C. Genghua, L. Rinkjui, and L. Fanghua, Phys. Rev. B **36**,
2311 (1987). * [36] H. Schwer, E. Kaldis, J. Karpinski, and C. Rossel,
J. Solid State Chem. **111**, 96 (1994). * [37] C. A. Hijar, C. L.
Stern, K. R. Poeppelmeier, K. Rogacki, Z. Chen, and B. Dabrowski,
Physica C **252**, 13 (1995). * [38] V. A. Trounov, T. Y. Kaganovich, P.
Fischer, E. Kaldis, J. Karpinski, and E. Jikel, Physica C **227**, 285
(1994). * [39] P. Fischer, E. Kaldis, J. Karpinski, S. Rusiecki, E.
Jilek, V. Trounov, and A. W. Hewat, Physica C **205**, 259 (1993). *
[40] X. Zhang, Physica C **222**, 227 (1994). * [41] I. Mangelschots, M.
Mali, J. Roos, H. Zimmermann, D. Brinkmann, S. Rusiecki, J. Karpinski,
E. Kaldis, and E. Jilek, Physica C **172**, 57 (1990). * [42] I.
Mangelschots, M. Mali, J. Roos, H. Zimmermann, D. Brinkmann, J.
Karpinski, E. Kaldis, and S. Rusiecki, J. Less-Common Met. **164**, 78
(1990).

* [43] M. Knupfer, N. Nucker, M. Alexander, H. Romberg, P. Adelmann, J.
Fink, J. Karpinski, E. Kaldis, S. Rusiecki, and E. Jilek, Physica C
**182**, 62 (1991). * [44] G. Triscone, M. Francois, J-Y. Genoud, T.
Graf, A. Junod, C. Opagiste, and J. Muller, J. Alloys Compd. **196**,
235 (1993). * [45] H. Zhang and H. Saito, Phys. Rev. Lett. **70**, 1697
(1993). * [46] J. M. S. Skakle, A. Templeton, E. E. Lachowski, and A. R.
West, Physica C **260**, 137 (1996).
