Formation and destruction of the heavy-electron ground state in U
compounds with AuBes crystal structure

H. R. Ott, H. Rudigier, and E. Felder

Laboratorium fur Festkorperphysik, Eidgenossische Technische Hochschule
Zurich-Honggerberg,

8093 Zurich, Switzerland

Z. Fisk and J. D. Thompson

Materials Science and Technology Division, Los Alamos National
Laboratory,

Los Alamos, New Mexico 87545

6 June 1986January 19 uranium atoms is fulfilled.

Both UNi₅ and UCu₅ crystallize in the structure shown in Fig. 1. In the
original work of van Daal, Buschow, van Aken, and van Maaren[15] on
UNi_(5 − x)Cu_(x), it was pointed out that replacing Ni by Cu leads to
dramatic changes in the low-temperature behavior of these substances.
While UNi₅ has an essentially temperature-independent magnetic
susceptibility below room temperature and stays paramagnetic, χ(T) of
UCu₅ increases substantially with decreasing temperature and
antiferromagnetic order is observed below 15 K. Moreover, the c_(p)/T
ratio at helium temperatures is about one order of magnitude smaller in
UNi₅ than in UCu₅. For UNi₅ and UCu₅ the nearest U-U distances are 4.796
and 4.973 A, respectively, and it might be argued that the difference in
this separation alone is responsible for the observed different
behavior. In our first example we demonstrate that this is only
partially true, particularly with respect to the behavior below 4 K,
disregarding, however, in this discussion the recently discovered phase
transition around 1 K in UCu₅.

In Fig. 2 we show the temperature dependence of the low-temperature
specific heat of UCu₅ and UCu_(4.95)Ni_(0.05) in the form of c_(p)/T vs
T² plots. It is evident that 1

In another example we show that changing the chemical composition of
AuBe₅-type uranium compound may lead to drastic changes in the opposite
direction, i.e., to the formation of a heavy-electron state, rather than
its destruction as demonstrated above. For this purpose we consider UPt₅
and UAuPt₄. The physical properties of UPt₅ have been investigated
before. χ(T) below 300 K and the room-temperature valence-band
photoemission spectrum were reported by Schneider and
Laubschat,[16]c_(p)(T) was measured by Frings[17] between 1.5 and 15 K,
and ρ(T) data between 1.5 and 300 K were published by de Visser, Franse,
and Menovsky.[18] Although in UPt₅ the U-U separation is 5.25 A and
hence favorable for the formation of a heavy-electron state, the
properties mentioned above indicate a much weaker trend to it than is
observed in UPt₅, where the nearest U-U distance is approximately 1 A
less. It is mainly the temperature dependences of c_(p) and ρ below 6 K
which suggest the presence of spin fluctuations in UPt₅. As Frings
points out, a T³ln T term is needed to properly describe c_(p)(T) below
6 K, and de Visser and co-workers note a T² dependence of ρ below 5 K.

Some of the properties we just described change considerably when one Pt
atom per formula unit is replaced by Au. Below, we demonstrate this by
reporting results of measurements of ρ(T) and χ(T) of UAuPt₄ between 1.5
and 300 K and of c_(p)(T) between 0.15 and 15 K, and by displaying them
in comparison with available data on UPt₅.

In Fig. 3 we show χ(T) for UAuPt₄ and UPt₅ below room temperature, where
the latter data are those of Ref. [16]. It may be seen that this change
in chemical composition enhances the susceptibility by at least a factor
of 2 at all temperatures. Above 60 K, χ(T) of UAuPt₄ may be described by
a Curie-Weiss-type straight line corresponding to an effective moment
$p_{\rm eff}$ = 3.21μ_(B)/(U ion) and a paramagnetic Curie temperature
Θ_(p) of −135 K. However, this simple interpretation is questionable
because, in spite of the large negative value of Θ_(p), UAuPt₄ does not
order magnetically down to 0.15 K. Quite obvious is also the change in
electrical resistivity as is shown in Fig. 4, where

Figure 3: Inverse magnetic susceptibility χ⁻¹(T) of UPt₅ and UAuPt₅
between 1.5 and 220 K. The data for UPt₅ were taken from Ref. [14].

we present ρ(T) between 1.5 and 300 K for both UAuPt₄ and UPt₅. Both
sets of data were obtained in this work and our results for UPt₅ are
somewhat at variance with those reported by de Visser _et al._,[18] the
main difference being the sizeably lower values of ρ obtained in our
measurements. ρ(T) of UAuPt₄ is clearly enhanced with respect to that of
UPt₅ and the enhancement increases with decreasing temperature. The
temperature dependence of ρ of UAuPt₄ approaches that of the
heavy-electron uranium compounds UCd₁₁ (Ref. [4]) and U₂Zn₁₇.[3]

The most dramatic change is observed in the temperature dependence of
the low-temperature specific heat. This may be seen from the c_(ρ)/T vs
T² plots for both UAuPt₄ and UPt₅ shown in Fig. 5. The data for UPt₅ are
those of Frings.[17] The slight enhancement of c_(ρ) of UAuPt₄ with
respect to UPt₅ observed at 15 K, increases steadily with decreasing
temperature and below 5 K; c_(ρ)/T of UAuPt₄ shows the characteristic
upturn of heavy-electron materials. From our measurements down to 0.15 K
we extrapolate a c_(ρ)/T ratio at T→0 K of 725 mJ/mol K², indicating
that the zero-temperature electronic-specific-heat parameter γ is eight
times larger in UAuPt₄ than in UPt₅. Below 1 K, the specific heat of
UAuPt₄ can be described very accurately by considering c_(ρ) due to
electrons, the lattice, and a spin-fluctuation-type term of the form
T³ln T. The resulting fit, however, clearly deviates from the
experimental data above 2 K and therefore we have not much faith in that
sort of interpretation, especially also because the resulting fit
parameter of the spin-fluctuation temperature $T_{\rm SF}$ = 9.5 K is
equal to $T_{\rm SF}$ in UPt₅.[17] The separation of the U atoms
$d_{\rm U-U}$ in UPt₅ and UAuPt₄ is 5.25 and 5.285 A, respectively.
Although the change of about 0.7

From the temperature dependence of ρ we suspect, without definite proof
yet, that UAuPt₄ will ideally form an ordered compound with all the Au
atoms occupying those Be sites of the AuBe₅ structure that form large
tetrahedra (see Fig. 1). Remaining deviations from the ideal
distribution of the atoms on different lattice sites are most likely the
cause for the absence of any phase transition in our samples. This
statement is supported by the fact that all known heavy-electron uranium
compounds undergo a phase transition at low temperatures unless it is
suppressed by impurities or other imperfections of the crystal lattice.
In other words, we may also state that we doubt that UAuPt₄ is a uranium
analogue to CeAl₃ or CeCu₆, two heavy-electron Ce compounds that show no
phase transition down to 20 mK. It is thus of interest to speculate what
kind of phase transition is the most likely to occur in perfect UAuPt₄.
In a previous comparison of low-temperature properties of heavy-electron
U compounds[19] it became apparent that the superconductors UBe₁₃ and
UPt₃ have distinctly larger electronic specific heats per unit volume
$\gamma_{\rm r}$ than all other compounds which order
antiferromagnetically. For UAuPt₄ we calculate a $\gamma_{\rm r}$ value
of 11.5 mJ/cm³K², very close to those obtained for UPt₃ and UBe₁₃,
respectively. Hence, we conjecture that UAuPt₄ may be a heavy-electron
superconductor once it can be prepared in perfect enough form. This
conjecture is also supported by the fact that the renormalized ratio of
the values of the low-temperature magnetic susceptibility and specific
heat ($\pi^{2}k\frac{\delta}{3\mu\delta}$)(χ/γ) for UAuPt₄ is 1.43,
close to the values found for the three known heavy-electron
superconductors. This value is also near a phenomenological boundary
separating magnets and superconductors, which was recently proposed by
DeLong.[20]

Our last point is of general and fundamental interest. It should be
possible to perform band-structure calculations for both UPt₅ and
UAuPt₄.[21] This would then allow one to test the significance of such
calculations in conjunction with heavy-electron behavior because the
large difference in the low-temperature specific heat of these two
compounds should reflect itself in the calculated energy dependence of
the electronic density of states, if band-structure effects were indeed
responsible for the obviously different behavior.

Figure 4: Temperature dependence of the electrical resistivity ρ(T) of
UPt₅ and UAuPt₄ between 1.2 and 300 K.

Figure 5: c_(ρ)/T vs T² for UPt₅ and UAuPt₄ below 15 K. The data for
UPt₅ (above 1.5 K) are those of Ref. [15]. The data for UAuPt₄ extend
down to 0.15 K.

Financial support from the Schweizerische Nationalfonds zur Forderung
der Wissenschaftlichen Forschung is gratefully acknowledged. Work at Los
Alamos was done under the auspices of the U.S. Department of Energy.

## References

* Ott et al. (1983) H. R. Ott, H. Rudigier, Z. Fisk, and J. L. Smith,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **50**, 1595 (1983). * Stewart et al. (1984) G. R.
Stewart, Z. Fisk, J. O. Willis, and J. L. Smith, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**52**, 679 (1984). * Ott et al. (1984) H. R. Ott, H. Rudigier, P.
Delsing, and Z. Fisk, Phys. Rev. Lett. **52**, 1551 (1984). * Fisk et
al. (1984) Z. Fisk, G. R. Stewart, J. O. Willis, H. R. Ott, H. Rudigier,
and F. Hulliger, Phys. Rev. B **30**, 6360 (1984). * Ott et al. (1985)
H. R. Ott, H. Rudigier, E. Felder, Z. Fisk, and B. Batlogg, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **55**, 1595 (1985). * Koelling et al. (1985) D. D. Koelling, B.
D. Dunlap, and G. W. Crabtree, Phys. Rev. B **31**, 4966 (1985). * Ott
et al. (1986) H. R. Ott, H. Rudigier, E. Felder, Z. Fisk, and J. L.
Smith, Phys. Rev. B **33**, 126 (1986). * de Visser et al. (1986) A. de
Visser, J. C. P. Klaasse, M. van Sprang, J. J. M. Franse, and A.
Menovsky, J. Magn. Magn. Mater. **54-57**, 375 (1986). * Ramirez et al.
(1986) A. P. Ramirez, B. Batlogg, A. S. Cooper, and E. Bucher, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **57**, 1072 (1986). * Brodale et al. (1986) G. E. Brodale,
R. A. Fisher, N. E. Phillips, and J. Flouquet, Phys. Rev. Lett. **56**,
390 (1986). * Phillips et al. (1986) N. E. Phillips, R. A. Fisher, J.
Flouquet, A. L. Giorgi, J. A. Olsen, and G. R. Stewart, J. Magn. Magn.
Mater. (to be published). * Brodale et al. (1986) G. E. Brodale, R. A.
Fisher, N. E. Phillips, G. R. Stewart, and A. L. Giorgi, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **57**, 234 (1986). * Lin et al. (1986) C. L. Lin, L. W. Zhou, J.
E. Crow, R. P. Guertin, and G. R. Stewart, J. Magn. Magn. Mater.
**54-57**, 391 (1986). * Misch (1935) L. Misch, Metallwirtsch. **14**,
897 (1935). * van Daal et al. (1975) H. J. van Daal, K. H. J. Buschow,
P. B. van Aken, and M. H. van Maaren, Phys. Rev. Lett. **34**, 1457
(1975). * Schneider and Laubschat (1981) W. D. Schneider and C.
Laubschat, Phys. Rev. B **23**, 997 (1981). * Frings (1984) P. H.
Frings, thesis, University of Amsterdam, 1984. * de Visser et al. (1984)
A. de Visser, J. J. M. Franse, and A. Menovsky, J. Magn. Magn. Mater.
**43**, 43 (1984). * Fisk et al. (1985) Z. Fisk, J. L. Smith, H. R. Ott,
and B. Batlogg, J. Magn. Magn. Mater. **52**, 79 (1985). * DeLong (1986)
L. E. DeLong, Phys. Rev. B **33**, 3556 (1986). * Albers and Boring
(private communication).
