Role of different negatively charged layers in Ca₁₀(FeAs)₁₀(Pt₄As₈) and
superconductivity at 30 K in electron-doped
(Ca_(0.8)La_(0.2))₁₀(FeAs)₁₀(Pt₃As₈)

Tobias Sturzer, Gerald Derondeau, and Dirk Johrendt

# Abstract

The recently discovered compounds Ca₁₀(Fe_(1 − x)Pt₄As)₁₀(Pt_(3 + y)As)
exhibit superconductivity up to 38 K, and contain iron arsenide (FeAs)
and platinum arsenide (Pt_(3 + y)As₈) layers separated by layers of
calcium atoms. We show that T_(c) > 15 K only emerges by electron doping
of pure FeAs layers, and not by platinum substitution in
(Fe_(1 − x)Pt₄)As layers, as anticipated so far. Indeed, two different
negatively charged layers [(FeAs)₁₀]⁻ and (Pt_(3 + y)As₈)^(m−) compete
for the electrons provided by the Ca²⁺ ions. The charge between the
layers is formally balanced to (FeAs)¹⁻ in the parent compound
Ca₁₀(FeAs)₁₀(Pt₃As₈), and superconductivity emerges by electron doping
if this balance is shifted. The latter is achieved either by adding
electrons as in (Ca_(0.8)La_(0.2))₁₀(FeAs)₁₀(Pt₃As₈) (T_(c) ≈ 30 K), or
intrinsically in Ca₁₀(FeAs)₁₀(Pt₄As₈) (T_(c) ≈ 38 K), where the Pt₄As₈
layer itself provides extra electrons.

pacs: 74.70.Xa, 74.62.Dh, 74.62.En + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL
REVIEW B **86**, 060516(R) (2012)

The chemical complexity of an arsenic superconductors has been increased
by the recent discovery of the compounds
Ca₁₀(Fe_(1 − x)Pt₄As)₁₀(Pt_(3 + y)As).[1, 2, 3] Their crystal structures
contain alternating layers of iron arsenide and platinum arsenide, each
separated by calcium atoms (Fig. 1). Platinum in the Pt_(3 + y)As₈
layers is nearly planar fourfold coordinated by arsenic that forms
As₂[4, 5] Zintl ions. Two branches of the structural motif have been
found, depending on the composition of the platinum arsenide layers. The
compound referred to as the 1038 phase contains Pt₃As₈ layers [Fig.
1(a)], while in the 1048 phase one more platinum atom is located in
Pt₄As₈ layers [Fig. 1(b)]. The 1038 compound is triclinic, while we have
identified three polymorphs of the 1048 phase with tetragonal (α-1048,
P4/n), triclinic (β-1048, $P\overline{1}$), or monoclinic (ν-1048,
P2₁/n) space group symmetries by single crystal x-ray diffraction.

High critical temperatures (T_(c)) up to 38 K have been assigned to the
1048 variants, while T_(c) of the 1038 phase is below 15 K so far.
Recent reports suggested that the critical temperatures are solely
controlled by substitution of platinum for iron in the FeAs layers, as
known from Sr(Fe_(1 − x)Pt_(x))₂As₂.[4] Nohara _et al.[5]_ even proposed
that "heavy Pt doping" is required to achieve high T_(c) in
Ca₁₀(Fe_(1 − x)Pt₄As)₁₀(Pt₄As₈). Also Ni _et al.[2]_ have suggested that
platinum substitution controls T_(c), but the higher values of the 1048
phases were associated with stronger interlayer coupling by Pt-As bonds
between the Pt₄As₈ and FeAs layers.

However, our band structure calculations have indicated that the
Pt_(3 + y)As₈ layers hardly contribute at the Fermi energy,[1] which has
been supported by recent angle resolved photoemission experiments
showing that the Fermi-surface topology is similar to those of known
FeAs materials.[6] Thereby it is extremely unlikely that critical
temperatures as high as 38 K occur in Pt-doped materials, while hitherto
known transition-metal doped FeAs superconductors remain well below 25
K.

In this Rapid Communication we show that high critical temperatures in
the iron-platinum arsenides are not achieved by platinum substitution
inside the iron layers, but by charge doping of FeAs layers. The
T_(c)(x) phase diagrams of the 1038 and 1048 compounds are quite
different and reveal that platinum substitution induces
superconductivity at low temperatures in the 1038 materials, but is
detrimental to T_(c) in the 1048 compounds, where the FeAs layers are
doped by electrons due to a shift of the the charge balance between
[(FeAs)₁₀]⁻ and (Pt_(3 + y)As₈)^(m−) to n > m. This interpretation is
supported by the observation of superconductivity at 30 K in the
electron-doped 1038 compound (Ca_(0.8)La_(0.2))₁₀(FeAs)₁₀(Pt₃As₈).

Polycrystalline samples of the platinum-iron arsenides were synthesized
by solid-state methods from the elements as described in Ref. 1, and
characterized by x-ray powder diffraction (PXRD) using the Rietveld
method with tropas.[7] Compositions were determined within errors of ±5%
by refining the occupation parameters and within ±10% by energy
dispersive x-ray spectroscopy (EDX). ac susceptibility measurements (3
Oe, 1333 Hz) were used to detect superconductivity and the critical
temperatures. Full-potential density function theory (DFT) calculations
using the wien2k package[8, 9] along with the quantum theory of atoms in
molecules (QTAIM) method [10] were used to calculate and analyze the
electron density distribution of the tetragonal 1048 compound.

Figure 2 shows the critical temperatures of all samples plotted against
the amount of platinum substitution at the iron site (x). Compounds with
the 1048 structure are well separated from those with 1038 structure.
The 1038 compounds are not superconducting below x ≈ 0.03, and then
T_(c) increases rapidly up to 15 K. This is very similar to known phase
diagrams of other FeAs materials, where superconductivity emerges after
suppression of a spin-density-wave (SDW) state of a parent compound by
transition-metal substitution at the iron site. [11] Interestingly,
Ca(Fe_(1 − x)Pt_(x))₁₀/As₈₂ is reportedly not superconducting up to
x = 0.08, which appears to be the solubility limit in CaFe₂As₂. [12] Our
1038 phase diagram agrees with those recently reported for 1038-type
single crystals, [13] where low temperature structural transitions have
been suggested at x < 0.025. Thus far, the 1038 compounds are in line
with other FeAs compounds that become superconducting when doped with
transition metals at the iron site, albeit at low T_(c). We therefore
refer to Ca₁₀(FeAs)₁₀(Pt₃As₈) as the parent compound.

In contrast to this, the critical temperatures of the 1048 compounds are
the highest without platinum at the iron site (x = 0), and decrease with
the substitution level as shown in Fig. 2. This reverse behavior of
T_(c)(x) clearly indicates a different electronic situation of the 1048
compound. Taking into account that T_(c) > 25 K has hitherto only been
induced by charge doping of the FeAs layers as in LnFeAs(O_(1 − x)F_(x))
(Ref. [14]) or (Ba_(1 − x)K_(x))Fe₂As₂, [15] but both transition-metal
substitution at the iron site as in Ba(Fe_(1 − x)Co_(x))₂As₂, [16] we
infer that charge doping of the FeAs layer would naturally explain the
higher T_(c) of the 1048 compound. Also the decrease of T_(c) due to
overdoping by additional platinum substitution at the iron site would be
understandable.

We point out that the platinum-iron arsenides are the first compounds in
the family of iron-based superconductors with two different negatively
charged layers, because both the iron and platinum arsenide layers are
negatively polarized. As suggested in previous studies, [1, 2] the 1038
compound is perfectly charge balanced according to
Ca₁₀²⁺[(FeAs)₁₀]¹⁰⁻(Pt₃As₈) [10]⁻, while in the 1048 compound the
additional Pt²⁺ leads to (Pt₄As₈)⁸⁻, and the question arises as to where
are these electrons.

Photoemission experiments [6] and DFT calculations [1] consistently
suggest that the platinum arsenide layer hardly contributes to the Fermi
surface, which is predominantly formed by states of the FeAs layer.
Therefore the only choice of the excess electrons from the Pt₄As₈ layer
is to occupy iron 3d states according to formally
(Ca₁₀)²⁰⁺[(FeAs)₁₀]¹²⁻(Pt₄As₈)⁸⁻. In other words, each FeAs in the 1048
compound is doped by 0.2 electrons, which is similar to the
electron-doped 1111 superconductors LnFeAs(O_(1 − x)F_(x)), where the
highest T_(c) likewise appears around x = 0.2.

The suggested charge distribution is supported by the QTAIM analysis of
the charge density in the tetragonal 1048 compound. The QTAIM charge of
each atom is calculated by integration of the electron density bounded
by the zero flux surface. [10] Summing up the charges of the layer atoms
and normalizing to Ca²⁺ gives
(Ca₁₀)²⁰⁺[(FeAs)₁₀]^(11.5−)(Pt₄As₈)^(8.5−), which is near to the above
suggested charge distribution. We note that the atomic charge is not an
observable quantity.

Combining these results, the fundamentally different behavior of the
critical temperatures in the 1038 and 1048 compounds presented in Fig. 2
becomes plausible. Superconductivity in the 1038 phase is induced by
platinum substitution of the FeAs layers, but thereby confined to lower
T_(c). On the other hand, there is every indication that intrinsic
electron doping of pure FeAs layers is the reason for the higher T_(c)
of the 1048 compounds. Finally, additional platinum substitution of the
FeAs layers of the 1048 phase is overdoping, which decreases the
critical temperature again.

If our idea of electron-doped FeAs layers in the 1048 compound is
correct, it should be possible to induce high T_(c) values above 15 K
also in the 1038 compound by electron doping instead of platinum
substitution in the FeAs layers. Indeed, we were able to synthesize the
electron-doped 1038 compound
(Ca_(0.8)La_(0.2))₁₀(Fe_(1 − x)Pt_(x)As)₁₀(Pt₃As₈) with x ≈ 0.03

Figure 3: (Color online) X-ray diffraction pattern and Rietveld fit of
(Ca_(0.8)La_(0.2))₁₀(Fe_(1 − x)Pt_(x)As)₁₀(Pt₃As₈) [La1038;
$P\overline{1}$, a = 8.7493(3) Å, b = 8.7533(2) Å, c = 10.7139(3) Å,
α = 75.877(3)^(∘), β = 85.295(3)^(∘), γ = 90.031(3)^(∘),
R_(up) = 0.016]. Inset: Crystal structure of La1038 showing a preference
for the lanthanum atom to the eightfold coordinated position.

Figure 2: (Color online) Critical temperatures of samples with 1048
structure (blue) and 1038 structure (red). Lines are guides to the eye.

(La1038). The small platinum substitution alone is not sufficient to
induce superconductivity according to the phase diagram (Fig. 2). The
1038 structure with La substitution at the Ca sites was confirmed by
Rietveld refinement as shown in Fig. 3.

A special feature of the La1038 crystal structure is emphasized in the
inset of Fig. 3. The calcium atom just below and above the platinum
vacancy in the Pt₅▫As₈ layer is eightfold coordinated by arsenic atoms,
while all other calcium atoms are coordinated by seven arsenic atoms
only. Lanthanum has a distinct preference for this site, where the
higher charge of La³⁺ increases the lattice energy and stabilizes the
structure.

Figure 4 shows ac susceptibility data of the 1038 compounds. No
superconductivity emerges at low platinum substitution (x < 0.035), and
T_(c) remains below 15 K at x = 0.051. In stark contrast to this,
superconductivity is observed at 30 K in the La1038 compound, where the
platinum substitution (x = 0.03) is much too small to induce
superconductivity at all. Note also that the T_(c) of La1038 perfectly
fits to the values expected for the 1048 compound with the same x in the
phase diagram (Fig. 2). This illustrates that only charge doping of the
FeAs layer is crucial, regardless of whether the structure is of the
1038 type or 1048 type. Given that platinum substitution reduces T_(c)
in the 1048 compounds, we expect even higher values around 40 K for
La1038 without platinum at the iron site, but we were not yet able to
prepare this. However, the finding of superconductivity at 30 K in
La1038 is a convincing proof that higher T_(c) (>15 K) in the 1038
materials emerge if the iron arsenide layers are free of platinum but
charge doped.

We have shown that three different doping scenarios of the 1038 parent
compound are feasible. Two of them dope electrons to the FeAs layer and
induce high critical temperatures of 30-38 K. The third is platinum
substitution of the FeAs layer, which also generates superconductivity,
albeit below 15 K. The three doping scenarios are compiled in the
following scheme. Note the identical charge states of the FeAs layers in
the 1048 and La1038 compounds, which likewise exhibit the highest
critical temperatures:

$$\begin{array}{l}(\mathrm{Ca}_{0.5}^{2+}\mathrm{La}_{0.2}^{3+}\mathrm{La}_{0 .2}^{3+})_{10}[(\mathrm{FeAs})_{10}]^{12-}(\mathrm{Pt}_{3}\mathrm{As}_{8})^{10 -}\\ \mathrm{Ca}_{10}^{2+}[(\mathrm{FeAs})_{10}]^{10-}(\mathrm{Pt}_{3}\mathrm{As}_{8})^ {10-}\\ \mathrm{Pt}/\mathrm{Fe}\mathrm{-substitution}\\ \mathrm{Ca}_{10}^{2+}(\mathrm{Fe}_{1-x}\mathrm{Pt}_{x}\mathrm{As})_{10}(\mathrm{ Pt}_{3}\mathrm{As}_{8})\mathrm{Ca}_{10}^{2+}(\mathrm{Fe}_{1-x}\mathrm{Fe}_{1-x})_{10}^{12-}(\mathrm{Pt}_{4}\mathrm{As}_{8})^{8-}\end{array}$$

In conclusion, our results emphasize the extraordinary role of the
separating layers in the iron-platinum arsenide superconductors with a
second negatively charged layer (Pt₃As₈)^(m−) beyond the known
[(FeAs)₁₀]^(n−). These layers compete for the electrons provided by the
Ca²⁺ ions. The electronic situation of the FeAs layers in the 1038
compound is almost identical to the simpler iron-arsenide
superconductors, thus the Pt₃As₈ layer with its own particular structure
attracts just the proper amount of electrons to establish the situation
n = m = 10. This charge balance between the layers is delicate, and can
be manipulated in various ways, but regardless the FeAs layer is much
more susceptible to additional electrons, because the states close to
the Fermi level are predominantly from FeAs. Thus extra electrons
donated from La³⁺ ions in La1038 clearly move to the FeAs layer and
cause electron doping. On the other hand, also the excess charge that
intrinsically occurs in Ca₁₀(FeAs)₁₀(Pt₄As₈) shifts the charge balance
to n > m and transfers electrons to the FeAs layer, which induces high
critical temperatures. Based on our results, we can satisfactory explain
the at first sight puzzling behavior of the critical temperatures in
these superconductors. These materials open perspectives for future
studies, especially with respect to the detailed role and possible
manipulations of the charge balance between the two negatively charged
layers.

This work was financially supported by the German Research Foundation
(DFG) within SPP1458, Grant No. JO257/6-1.

## References

* [1] Johrendt@lmu.de * [2] C. Lohnert, T. Sturzer, M. Tegel, R.
Frankovsky, G. Friederichs, and D. Johrendt, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.
**50**, 9195 (2011). * [3] N. Ni, J. M. Allred, B. C. Chan, and R. J.
Cava, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA **108**, E1019 (2011). * [4] S. Kakiya,
K. Kudo, Y. Nishikubo, K. Oku, E. Nishibori, H. Sawa, T. Yamamoto, T.
Nozaka, and M. Nohara, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **80**, 093704 (2011). * [5]
Y. Nishikubo, S. Kakiya, M. Danura, K. Kudo, and M. Nohara, J. Phys.
Soc. Jpn. **79**, 095002 (2010). * [6] M. Nohara, S. Kakiya, K. Kudo, Y.
Oshiro, S. Araki, T. C. Kobayashi, K. Oku, E. Nishibori, and H. Sawa,
Solid State Commun. **152**, 635 (2012). * [7] M. Neupane, C. Liu, S.-Y.
Xu, Y. J. Wang, N. Ni, J. M. Allred, L. Wray, H. Lin, R. Markiewicz, A.
Bansil _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **85**, 094510 (2012).

Figure 4: (Color online) ac susceptibility measurements of 1038
compounds with different Pt substitutions and of La1038 with small Pt
substitution that is not sufficient to induce superconductivity.

* (7) A. Coelho, tomas-Academic, Version 4.1, Coelho Software, Brisbane,
2007. * (8) P. Blaha, K. Schwarz, G. K. H. Madsen, D. Kvasnicka, and J.
Luitz, "WIEN2K-augmented plane wave + local orbitals program for
calculating crystal properties," 2001. * (9) K. Schwarz and P. Blaha,
Comput. Mater. Sci. **28**, 259 (2003). * (10) R. F. W. Bader, _Atoms in
Molecules-A Quantum Theory_ (Oxford University Press, London, 1990). *
(11) D. Johrendt, J. Mater. Chem. **21**, 13726 (2011). * (12) K. Kudo,
M. Kobayashi, S. Kakiya, M. Danura, and M. Nohara, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn.
**81**, 035002 (2012). * (13) K. Cho, M. A. Tanatar, H. Kim, W. E.
Straszheim, N. Ni, R. J. Cava, and R. Prozorov, Phys. Rev. B **85**,
020504 (2012). * (14) Z.-A. Ren, W. Lu, J. Yang, W. Yi, X.-L. Shen,
Z.-C. Li, G.-C. Che, X.-L. Dong, L.-L. Sun, F. Zhou _et al._, Chin.
Phys. Lett. **25**, 2215 (2008). * (15) M. Rotter, M. Tegel, and D.
Johrendt, Phys. Rev. Lett. **101**, 107006 (2008). * (16) A. S. Sefat,
R. Jin, M. A. McGuire, B. C. Sales, D. J. Singh, and D. Mandrus, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **101**, 117004 (2008).
