# Evidence for s_(±)-wave pairing symmetry in LiFeAs from its
low-temperature specific heat

Dong-Jin Jang,¹ J. B. Hong,¹ Y. S. Kwon,^(1, 2) and T. Park^(1, *)

¹Department of Physics, Sungkyunkwan University, Suwon 440-746, Republic
of Korea

²Department of Emerging Materials Science, Daegu Gyeongbuk Institute of
Science and Technology, Daegu 711-873, Republic of Korea

K. Gofryk, F. Ronning, and J. D. Thompson

Los Alamos National Laboratory, Los Alamos, New Mexico 87545, USA

Yunkyu Bang^(†)

Department of Physics, Chonnam National University, Kwangju 500-757,
Republic of Korea

11 February 2012; revised manuscript received 20 March 2012; published
18 May 2012

###### Abstract

We report specific heat capacity measurements on a LiFeAs single crystal
at temperatures down to 400 mK and magnetic fields up to 9 T. A small
specific heat jump at T_(c) and finite residual density of states at
T = 0 K in the superconducting (SC) state indicate that there are strong
unitary scatterers that lead to states within the SC gap. A sublinear
magnetic field dependence of the Sommerfeld coefficient γ(H) at T = 0 K
is equally well fitted by both a nodal d-wave gap as well as a sign
changing multiband s_(±)-wave gap. When impurity effects are taken into
account, however, the linear temperature dependence of the electronic
specific heat C_(el)/T at low temperatures argues against a nodal d-wave
superconducting gap. We conclude that the SC state of LiFeAs is most
compatible with the multiband s_(±)-wave SC state with the gap values
Δ_(small) = 0.46Δ_(large).

pacs: 74.70.Xa, 74.25.Bt, 74.20.Rp + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL
REVIEW B **85**, 180505(R) (2012)

Information on the superconducting (SC) pairing symmetry is important
for the understanding of the SC pairing mechanism. For the newly
discovered Fe-pnictide superconductors, determination of the SC order
parameter has been controversial partly due to its sensitive dependence
on measurement probes and material stoichiometry.[1, 2, 3, 4] It has
been suggested that the sensitivity of the SC gap symmetry is related to
the nearly compensated multiple bands at the Fermi surface that are
susceptible to small changes in the doping or electronic structure.[5,
6] Additionally, the momentum space structure of the superconducting gap
may be different at a physical surface than in the bulk.[7] Therefore,
measurements that mainly probe the surface may detect a nodeless gap,
while bulk measurements may report a nodal gap, implying that it is
important to consider both surface and bulk sensitive measurements for
the determination of the SC gap symmetry in the Fe-pnictide
superconductors.

LiFeAs, the so-called "111" phase, is unique in that it is
superconducting without carrier doping and the residual resistivity
ratio (RRR) is about 50, one of the highest among Fe-based SC
compounds,[8] holding promise for a determination of the superconducting
gap symmetry without complications from material defects.[9, 10, 11]
Even though various theoretical and experimental studies point toward an
isotropic SC gap without nodes on the Fermi surface,[14, 15, 16, 17, 18,
19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36,
37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54,
55, 56, 57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 62, 63, 64, 65, 66, ($C_{\rm ph}$)
contributions, i.e., $C=C_{\rm d}+C_{\rm ph}$. Non-Debye behavior has
been often reported in Fe-based superconductors and ascribed to a large
Einstein contribution or a low Debye temperature T_(D). Because an
Einstein phonon contribution is negligible below 25 K in LiFeAs, a
second term of the harmonic-lattice approximation is added to improve
the Debye phonon specific heat as in Ref. [23]:
C_(n) = γ_(n)(0)T + β₁T³ + β₂T⁵. The specific heat is best described by
the least-squares fit with γ_(n)(0) = 17.0 ± 0.9 mJ/mol K²,
β₁ = 0.231 ± 0.004 mJ/mol K⁴, and β₂ ≃ −0.0001 mJ/mol K⁶. The electronic
Sommerfeld coefficient γ_(n)(0) (=17.0 ± 0.9 mJ/mol K²) at zero magnetic
field in the normal state is comparable with previously reported values
of 20, 10, and 23 mJ/mol K² from Refs. [22, 23] and [25], respectively.
The Debye temperature estimated from the fit is 294 K, which is similar
to 310 K from Ref. [23]. Figure 1(b) shows the electronic entropy in the
normal (squares) and superconducting (circles) states after subtracting
the nonelectronic contribution. The two entropies become equal at T_(c),
which satisfies the entropy constraint 0 = ∫₀^(T_(c))(C − C_(n))/TdT.
From the electronic entropy in Fig. 1(b), we estimate the
superconducting condensation energy
U = ∫₀^(T_(c))(S_(m) − S_(es))dT = B_(c)(0)²/2μ₀ ≃ 363 mJ/mol and
thermodynamic critical field B_(c)(0) ≃ 0.23 T. When we use the
Ginzburg-Landau parameter κ = λ_(ab)/β_(ab) = 29 ± 7 of LiFeAs from a
small-angle neutron scattering (SANS) experiment,[14] the upper critical
field μ₀H_(c2)^(1/2) [=$\sqrt{2}\kappa\,B_{c}(0)$] is 9.4 ± 2.3 T. For
comparison, μ₀H_(c2)^(1/2) from penetration measurements is 17 T.[26]

Figure 2 shows the electronic specific heat coefficient of LiFeAs at
zero magnetic field after subtracting the phononic contribution:
$\gamma_{\rm{f}el}(T)=C_{\rm{d}}/T=(C-C_{\rm{f}h})/T$. The specific heat
jump ΔC at T_(c) is 7.65 mJ/mol K² at zero field. The jump relative to
the normal state specific heat C_(n) is 0.5 (=ΔC/C_(n)), which is much
smaller than the BCS value 1.43, indicating that the quasiparticles
participating in the SC condensation experience strong elastic
scattering because inelastic scattering usually enhances the jump
ratio.[28] We note that the small value of the jump could be partially
due to the multiband nature of superconductivity in LiFeAs.[29] The
substantial value of the Sommerfeld coefficient γ₀ in the SC state,
which accounts for about 45

To extract information on the gap symmetry from the specific heat of
LiFeAs, we consider two typical unconventional SC gap models that
represent two extreme limits, i.e., a d-wave SC gap with nodes and a
s_(±)-wave gap without nodes, and fit the experimental data in Fig. 2.
Here we used the d-wave model to represent the generic behavior of a
nodal SC gap state. The impurity effect is calculated using the
self-consistent 𝒯-matrix approximation (SCTA).[27] In each gap model, we
determine the fitting parameters such as 2Δ/T_(c), the impurity

Figure 2: (Color online) Normalized electronic specific heat coefficient
(black open circles) and the best fits of the two SC gap models: d-wave
(blue circles) and s_(±)-wave (red triangles) models. For the d-wave
model, $2\Delta_{\rm{max}}/T_{c}=3.5$ and
$\Gamma=\mu_{\rm{int}}/\pi N_{\rm{normal}}=0.13$ are obtained for the
best results. Here, $\Delta_{\rm{max}}$ is the maximum gap of the d-wave
gap Δ(0). For the s_(±)-wave gap,
$|\Delta_{\rm{band}}|/\Delta_{\rm{large}}=0.46$,
$2\Delta_{\rm{large}}/T_{c}=3.8$, and
$\Gamma=\mu_{\rm{int}}/\pi N_{\rm{total}}=0.17$ are obtained from the
least-squares fit. We note that the inversely related ratios between
$|\Delta_{\rm{band}}|/|\Delta_{\rm{large}}$ and
$N_{\rm{small}}/N_{\rm{large}}$ are an intrinsic property of the
s_(±)-wave pairing model with a dominant interband paring interaction
(Ref. [27]). Inset: Low-temperature specific heat in the main panel is
magnified to show a notable difference between the two gap models.

Figure 1: (Color online) (a) Specific heat of LiFeAs is plotted at zero
(open circles) and 9 T (stars) for a field parallel to the c axis. The
red solid line is an estimated normal state specific heat C_(n)/T from a
polynomial form described in the text. (b) Calculated electronic entropy
in the superconducting state (S_(es)) and in the normal state S_(m).

concentration parameter $\Gamma=n_{\rm imp}/\pi\,N(0)$ by finding the
best overall fit to the data, where N(0) is the zero-energy density of
states. The results are shown in Fig. 2 overlayed with the experimental
data. Both models provided reasonably good fittings for the overall
shape, the specific heat jump ΔC, and the $\gamma_{\rm ef}(T=0$ K)
value. However, we find that the two models show qualitative differences
for $\gamma_{\rm ef}(T)$ at low temperatures and this low-temperature
behavior of $\gamma_{\rm ef}(T)$ is what reflects the intrinsic
properties of the gap symmetry, with which we can unambiguously identify
the most compatible gap symmetry.

A pure d-wave superconductor is expected to produce a T-linear specific
heat coefficient such as γ(T) = αT because of the V-shaped density of
state (DOS) N(ω) ∼ α^(′)ω. However, the large value of γ(T = 0)
(∼0.45γ_(n)) indicates a substantial amount of unitary impurities. When
the unitary impurities create a zero-energy impurity band inside the
d-wave gap, the DOS around zero energy becomes a constant, N(ω) ∼ N₀,
which in turn produces a constant, temperature-independent, specific
heat coefficient γ(T) for a finite range of low temperatures, as can be
seen in the inset of Fig. 2 (blue circles). Our experimental data,
however, show γ(T) ∼ γ₀ + αT, implying that the low energy DOS should
have the form N(ω) ∼ N₀ + α^(′)ω. This type of constant+V-shaped DOS was
indeed predicted for an s_(±)-wave gap with unitary impurities.[27] As
can be seen in Fig. 2 and its inset, the s_(±)-wave gap model with
unitary impurities provides an excellent fit at low temperatures as well
as for the overall shape of γ₀(T), but the d-wave model fails to explain
the low-temperature behavior.

The dependence on magnetic field of the low-temperature specific heat of
LiFeAs is shown in Figs. 3(a) and 3(b) for different field orientations
of H ∥ c and H ⊥ c, respectively. The lack of a Schottky-like anomaly up
to the highest applied magnetic field enables us to unambiguously
determine the Sommerfeld coefficient γ(H) from the least-squares fits of
C(H)/T = γ(H) + AT² to the low-T specific heat. As shown in Fig. 3(c),
the anisotropy in the quasiparticle density of states
[γ₀^(c)(H) − γ₀]/[γ₀^(ab)(H) − γ₀] is almost constant (≈2.4) over the
experimental field range and an anisotropy ratio of the upper critical
fields between the two field directions is estimated to be 1.7 ± 0.2
through the relationship[24,
30]δγ₀^(c)/δγ₀^(ab) = (0.5/0.3)(H_(c2)^(ab)/H_(c2)^(c2))^(δT). The
H_(c2) anisotropy from this thermodynamic measurement is in good
agreement with that obtained from transport properties where H_(c2) was
directly under high magnetic field.[26, 31]

A sublinear magnetic field dependence of γ₀(H) is displayed in Fig. 4,
which is often taken as evidence for a nodal gap structure such as a
d-wave state that is known to have a generic $\sqrt{H}$ dependence due
to Doppler effects of the nodal quasiparticles by the supercurrent
circulating around the vortices. Recent theoretical work, however,
showed that the s_(±)-wave state with different gap sizes
($\Delta_{\rm small}\neq\Delta_{\rm large}$) can also show a strong
field dependence of $\gamma(H)\propto\sqrt{H}-H$.[32] In Fig. 4, we show
theoretical calculations for both s_(±)-wave (dotted line) and d-wave
(dashed line) models to fit the γ₀(H) data with H ∥ c, where we use the
same fitting parameters

Figure 4: (Color online) Field-dependent Sommerfeld coefficient
extrapolated from Fig. 3(a) for field applied along the crystalline c
axis. The black dotted line is the theoretical fit with the s_(±)-wave
model and the gray dashed line is the fit with the d-wave model,
respectively. Here we used the upper critical field H_(c2) of 17 T from
Ref. [26]. The error bars of the γ values are less than the size of the
symbols.

Figure 3: (Color online) Low-temperature specific heat capacity for
magnetic fields applied parallel to the crystalline c axis and ab plane
in (a) and (b), respectively. In (a) the magnetic field intensity is 0,
1, 2, 3, 5, 7, and 9 T from bottom to top curves, and it is 0, 1, 3, 5,
7, and 9 T in (b). Straight lines are the results from the least-squares
fit of C/T = γ(H) + AT² and used to obtain the zero temperature value of
C/T. (c) Anisotropy of the Sommerfeld coefficient which is obtained from
the extrapolation of the data in (a) and (b) for the two field
orientations. Here Δγ₀^(c) = γ₀^(c)(H) − γ₀^(c)(0T) for magnetic field
along the c axis.

obtained from the analysis of the specific heat as a function of
temperature (see Fig. 2). It is clear that the s_(±)-wave model equally
well reproduces the field dependence of γ(H) which has been taken as a
signature for a nodal gap structure. Thus, in combination with our
analysis of the zero-field temperature dependence, our data favors the
sign changing multiband superconductivity of the s_(±)-wave state.

To summarize, we have reported the specific heat capacity of a LiFeAs
single crystal under magnetic field. The small specific heat jump ratio
at T_(c) and substantial residual density of states at T = 0 K in the SC
state indicate that impurity effects due to strong unitary scatterers
should be included to explain the specific heat results. The zero-field
specific heat data at high temperatures above 2 K and sublinear magnetic
field dependence of the Sommerfeld coefficient are equally well
described by nodal and nodeless multiband SC gaps with impurity effects.
However, the low-temperature electronic specific heat below 2 K excludes
the nodal d-wave state, but is consistent with the sign changing
multiband superconductivity of the s_(±)-wave state.

This work was supported by NRF grants (No. 2010-0029136, No.
2011-0021645, and No. 2010-0007487) funded by the Korea government
(MEST). Work at Los Alamos was performed under the auspices of the US
Department of Energy/Office of Science and supported in part by the Los
Alamos LDRD program. Y.B. was supported by Grant No. NRF-2010-0009523
funded by the National Research Foundation of Korea. D.J. acknowledges
support from the Postdoctoral Research Program of Sungkyunkwan
University.

## References

* (1) Y. Kamihara, H. Hiramatsu, M. Hirano, R. Kawamura, H. Yanagi, T.
Kamiya, and H. Hosono, J. Am. Chem. Soc. **130**, 3296 (2008). * (2) K.
Ishida, Y. Nakai, and H. Hosono, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **78**, 062001
(2009). * (3) G. R. Stewart, Rev. Mod. Phys. **83**, 1589 (2011). * (4)
P. J. Hirschfeld, M. M. Korshunov, and I. I. Mazin, Rep. Prog. Phys.
**74**, 124508 (2011). * (5) A. F. Kemper, T. A. Maier, S. Graser, H.-P.
Cheng, P. J. Hirschfeld, and D. J. Scalapino, New J. Phys. **12**,
073030 (2010). * (6) K. Kuroki, H. Usui, S. Onari, R. Arita, and H.
Aoki, Phys. Rev. B **79**, 224511 (2009). * (7) E. van Heumen, J.
Vuorinen, K. Koepernik, F. Massee, Y. Huang, M. Shi, J. Klei, J.
Goedkoop, M. Lindroos, J. van den Brink, and M. S. Golden, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **106**, 027002 (2011). * (8) Y.-J. Song, J. S. Ghim, B. H. N.
Min, Y. S. Kwon, M. H. Jung, and J.-S. Phyee, Appl. Phys. Lett. **96**,
212508 (2010). * (9) M. J. Pitcher, D. R. Parker, P. Adamson, S. J. C.
Herkelrath, A. T. Boothroyd, R. M. Ibberson, M. Brunelli, and S. J.
Clarke, Chem. Commun. **2008**, 5918 (2008). * (10) X. C. Wang, Q. Q.
Liu, Y. X. Lv, W. B. Gao, L. X. Yang, R. C. Yu, F. Y. Li, and C. Q. Jin,
Solid State Commun. **148**, 538 (2008). * (11) J. H. Tapp, Z. Tang, B.
Lv, K. Sasmal, B. Lorenz, Paul C. W. Chu, and A. M. Guloy, Phys. Rev. B
**78**, 060505(R) (2008). * (12) J. S. Kim, E. G. Kim, and G. R.
Stewart, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter **21**, 252201 (2009). * (13) K.
Goffry, A. S. Sefat, E. D. Bauer, M. A. McGuire, B. C. Sales, D.
Mandrus, J. D. Thompson, and F. Ronning, New J. Phys. **12**, 023006
(2010). * (14) D. S. Inosov, J. S. White, D. V. Evtushinsky, I. V.
Morozov, A. Camperot, U. Stockert, V. B. Zabolotnyy, T. K. Kim, A. A.
Kordyuk, S. V. Borisenko, E. M. Forgan, R. Klingeler, J. T. Park, S.
Wurmehl, A. N. Vasiliev, G. Behr, C. D. Dewhurst, and V. Hinkov, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **104**, 187001 (2010). * (15) H. Kim, M. A. Tanatar, Y. J.
Song, Y. S. Kwon, and R. Prozorov, Phys. Rev. B **83**, 100502(R)
(2011). * (16) M. A. Tanatar, J. P. Reid, S. Rene de Cotret, N.
Doiron-Leyraud, F. Laliberte, E. Hassinger, J. Chang, H. Kim, K. Cho, Y.
J. Song, Y. S. Kwon, R. Prozorov, and L. Taillefer, Phys. Rev. B **84**,
054507 (2011). * (17) Y. Imai, H. Takahashi, K. Kitagawa, K.
Matsubayashi, N. Nakai, Y. Nagai, Y. Uwatoko, M. Machida, and A. Maeda,
J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **80**, 013704 (2011). * (18) Z. Li, Y. Ooe, X.-C.
Wang, Q.-Q. Liu, C.-Q. Jin, M. Ichioka, and G.-Q. Zheng, J. Phys. Soc.
Jpn. **79**, 083702 (2010). * (19) K. Sasmal, B. Lv, Z. Tang, F. Y. Wei,
Y. Y. Xue, A. M. Guloy, and C. W. Chu, Phys. Rev. B **81**, 144512
(2010). * (20) K. Umezawa, Y. Li, H. Miao, K. Nakayama, Z.-H. Liu, P.
Richard, T. Sato, J. B. He, D.-M. Wang, G. F. Chen, H. Ding, T.
Takahashi, and S.-C. Wang, Phys. Rev. Lett. **108**, 037002 (2012). *
(21) C. Platt, R. Thomale, and W. Hanke, Phys. Rev. B **84**, 235121
(2011). * (22) F. Wei, F. Chen, K. Sasmal, B. Lv, Z. J. Tang, Y. Y. Xue,
A. M. Guloy, and C. W. Chu, Phys. Rev. B **81**, 134527 (2010). * (23)
U. Stockert, M. Abdel-Hafiez, D. V. Evtushinsky, V. B. Zabolotnyy, A. U.
B. Wolter, S. Wurmehl, I. Morozov, R. Klingeler, S. V. Borisenko, and B.
Buchner, Phys. Rev. B **83**, 224512 (2011). * (24) D. J. Jang, A. B.
Vorontsov, I. Vekhter, K. Gofryk, Z. Yang, S. Ju, J. B. Hong, J. H. Han,
Y. S. Kwon, F. Ronning, J. D. Thompson, and T. Park, New J. Phys.
**13**, 020306 (2011). * (25) P. J. Baker, S. R. Giblin, F. L. Pratt, R.
H. Liu, G. Wu, X. H. Chen, M. J. Pitcher, D. R. Parker, S. J. Clarke,
and S. J. Blundell, New J. Phys. **11**, 025010 (2009). * (26) K. Cho,
H. Kim, M. A. Tanatar, Y. J. Song, Y. S. Kwon, W. A. Conigliu, C. C.
Agosta, A. Gurevich, and R. Prozorov, Phys. Rev. B **83**, 060502(R)
(2011). * (27) Y. Bang, H.-Y. Choi, and H. Won, Phys. Rev. B **79**,
054529 (2009). * (28) Y. Bang and A. V. Balatsky, Phys. Rev. B **69**,
212504 (2004). * (29) P. Bouquet, R. A. Fisher, N. E. Phillips, D. G.
Hinks, and J. D. Jorgensen, Phys. Rev. Lett. **87**, 047001 (2001). *
(30) M. Ichioka, A. Hasegawa, and K. Machida, Phys. Rev. B **59**, 184
(1999). * (31) S. Khim, B. Lee, J.-W. Kim, E.-S. Choi, G. R. Stewart,
and K.-H. Kim, Phys. Rev. B **84**, 104502 (2011). * (32) Y. Bang, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **104**, 217001 (2010).
