# Far-infrared optical properties of the carbide superconductor Y2C2I2

T. Room,* B. Gorshunov,+ and M. Dressel

1. Physikalisches Institut, Universitat Stuttgart, Pfaffenwaldring 57,
D-70550 Stuttgart, Germany

K. Ahn, R. K. Kremer, and A. Simon

Max-Planck-Institut fur Festkorperforschung, Heisenbergstrasse 1,
D-70569 Stuttgart, Germany

Received 14 February 2002; published 8 July 2002

###### Abstract

The optical properties of the layered superconductor Y2C2I2 (_T_c = 10
K) have been studied at far-infrared frequencies down to 5 cm-1 and at
temperatures from 5 to 15 K, in superconducting and normal states. A
clear manifestation of the superconducting transition has been observed
in the reflectance spectra and in the Kramers-Kronig derived spectra of
conductivity and dielectric permittivity. The normal-state spectra
indicate an unusually low scattering rate of the charge carriers.

pacs: 0163-1829/2002/66(1)/012510 + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL
REVIEW B **66**, 012510 (2002)

Compounds crystallizing with a layered structure display a wealth of
exceptional and unusual properties. Recent examples include the high
transition temperatures of the oxo-cuprate superconductors, magnesium
diborate, or the large magnetoresistance in some layered compounds.
Other superconductors with a layered structure and with
quasi-two-dimensional properties were studied since the 1970s. Among
them are the layered Ta and Nb dichalcogenides and their intercalated
derivatives, or some organic superconductors, all of which display less
spectacular transition temperatures. Since the seminal paper by Ginzburg
and Kirznits,[1] it is generally accepted that two-dimensional layered
materials provide optimum prerequisites for superconductivity with high
_T_c .[2, 3]

Some years ago we reported superconductivity in the layered carbide
halides of the nonmagnetic rare-earth metals.[4] The crystal structures
of these compounds with general composition R2C2X2 (_R = Y_, La; _X =_
Br, I) contain slabs of close-packed R atom double layers with C2 units
occupying the octahedral voids of the metal atom double layers. These
slabs are sandwiched by layers of halogen X atoms. Slabs of
_X_-_R_-C2-_R_-_X_ are connected via van der Waals interaction and stack
along the crystallographic c axis.[5, 6] A superconducting transition
temperature of 10 K has been found for Y2C2I2. _T_c could be maximized
to 11.6 K by adjusting the electronic properties using an appropriate
mixture of halide species in the compound Y2C2Br03I1.5 (Ref. 7). From
measurements of the thermodynamic properties of Y2C2I2 and Y2C2Br2 (_T_c
= 5 K) a ratio 2D/_k_B_T_c = 4.3 has been established[8] corresponding
to a gap value, D, of the order of 2 and 1 meV respectively (1 meV =
8.066 cm-1). So far there have been no reports on the direct
measurements of the magnitude of the superconducting gap 2D in the
carbide halides of the rare earth metals. In this paper we report on
far-infrared (down to 5 cm-1) measurements of Y2C2I2 reflectance above
and below _T_c. We find evidence for a gap opening in the reflectance
spectra. However, the reflectance spectra do not reveal the magnitude of
the superconducting gap 2D.

Since single crystals of suitable quality, at least a few millimeters in
size, are not available at present, the study was performed on
polycrystalline pellets, 8 mm in diameter and 1 mm thick, pressed from a
powder sample without additional sintering. The typical size of
crystallites in the pellets was 0.1 mm in the plane and about ten times
less in the c direction. The powder sample was prepared by adding an
excess of 3-4

Figure 1: Temperature dependence of the magnetic susceptibility measured
in a 1 mT field while sweeping the temperature from 4 K up. The sample
was cooled to 4 K in a zero magnetic field. The inset displays an
x-ray-diffraction pattern of the investigated sample of Y2C2I2.

glass substrate) by changing _in situ_ the sample and the reference
mirror on the back of a 4-mm-diameter aperture.

In Fig. 1 the magnetic gram susceptibility of a sample, prepared from
the same batch as the one used for far-infrared measurements, is shown.
The onset _T_(c)_ is 10.1 K and the transition width (10-90

The low-frequency part of the conductivity and permittivity spectra
obtained by the Kramers-Kronig analysis are shown in Figs. 2(b) and
2(c). In the normal state an increase of the conductivity toward low
frequencies is seen, characteristic of a Drude-like response of free
charge carriers. A corresponding drop is observed in the ϵ₁(ω) spectrum.
This Drude-like dispersion seen in the conductivity and permittivity
spectra in the normal state indicates an unexpectedly low scattering
rate of the charge carriers, Γ≈15 cm⁻¹. Taking the Fermi velocity v_(F)=
10⁵−10⁶ m/s we estimate the mean free path l=v_(F)/Γ to be l= 0.2−2 μm.
This is larger than the distance between two Y layers across the van der
Waals gap [less than 1 nm (Ref. [11])], but still smaller than the
dimensions of the crystallites in the pellet. The direct current
conductivity of a pressed pellet at 15 K σ₁(0) = 1000 Ω⁻¹ cm⁻¹ (Ref.
[12]) is slightly larger than the low frequency optical conductivity,
σ₁(10 cm⁻¹) = 400 Ω⁻¹ cm⁻¹. We attribute this difference to the light
scattering effects.

In the superconducting state a strong decrease of ϵ₁(ω) at the lowest
frequencies develops corresponding to an inductive response of the
superconducting condensate under the zero-frequency delta function in
the conductivity spectrum. This is accompanied by a pronounced lowering
of the conductivity. The conductivity, however, does not fall to zero at
the lowest frequencies, as one would expect at _T≪T_(c)_ for a
superconductor in which the gap opens over the entire Fermi surface,
leading to a zero conductivity below the gap frequency. Instead, a flat
background conductivity of about 150 Ω⁻¹ cm⁻¹ remains even at the lowest
temperature of 5.4 K. The origin of such a residual conductivity can be
extrinsic or intrinsic. There are arguments against an extrinsic origin
of this contribution in the superconducting state. _First,_ we exclude
the presence of other phases. Although a few percent extra carbon were
added in the sample, the x-ray and neutron diffraction do not show the
presence of other phases. Even if the extra carbon could still be
present in the sample in an amorphous form, it would not give rise to a
relatively large metal-like conductivity because of the low value of the
conductivity.[13]_Second_, disorder or localization effects, which could
give rise to a residual conductivity below _T_(c)_, lead to an increase
of the conductivity with frequency according to a ω^(s) power law and to
a positive ϵ₁ with a divergence as ω→0 (Ref. [14]), a behavior not
observed in our spectra. Also, in the normal state there is an opposite,
as compared to ω^(s), behavior of the conductivity [Fig. 2(b)].

Assuming that the features we observe in the low-frequency spectra of
Y₂C₂I₂ are intrinsic, we can draw an analogy to another recently
discovered layered superconductor MgB₂. We modeled the normal-state
optical conductivity of Y₂C₂I₂ with a Drude-Lorentz conductivity, a sum
of two conductivity peaks, σ_(i)(ω) = σ_(dc, i)Γ_(i)²/(ω² + Γ_(i)²) (see
Fig. 2). One conductivity peak is narrow, Γ₁≈15 cm⁻¹, and the

Figure 2: Temperature and frequency dependences of the measured absolute
reflectance and optical constants calculated using the Kramers-Kronig
relation. (a) Low-frequency reflectance. (b) Real part σ₁ of the
conductivity. (c) Real part ϵ₁ of the dielectric function multiplied by
− 1. Inset (d) shows the reflectance measured at 15 K over a broad
frequency range. A peak at ∼300 cm⁻¹ is a phonon (Refs. [16] and [17]).
Smooth solid curves are the model fits of 5.4- and 15-K spectra. The
background conductivity at both temperatures is modeled with a Drude
conductivity, ω_(ρ)=1900 cm⁻¹ and Γ=400 cm⁻¹. In the normal state
another Drude term has been added with ω_(ρ)=480 cm⁻¹ and Γ= 15 cm⁻¹,
and in the superconducting state a delta peak with a plasma frequency
ω_(pl)^(ac)= 400 cm⁻¹.

other is broad, Γ₂ 400 cm⁻¹. In MgB₂ two very similar Drude-like
contributions are detected (see, e.g., Ref. [15]), a narrow one with a
width determined by a small scattering rate of about 30 meV (240 cm⁻¹),
and a very broad one with scattering rate of 1.39 eV (11200 cm⁻¹). These
two components in MgB₂ are regarded as originating from two different
electronic bands, each participating in producing two superconductivity
channels with different energy gaps (or with a distribution of gap
values). We can thus speculate on a possibility of a similar two-band
conductivity and superconductivity in Y₂C₂I₂. Recent band-structure
calculations [16] indicate the possibility of such a multiband
conductivity mechanism in Y₂C₂I₂. Certainly, for a more detailed
analysis, further experiments on single crystalline samples are needed.

As indicated above, the delta peak of superconducting carriers at zero
frequency in σ₁(ω) adds a large negative contribution to ϵ₁(ω),
ϵ₁^(sc)(ω) = −(ω_(pl)^(scf)ω)². In the low-frequency limit ω → 0, the
plasma frequency of superconducting carriers can be estimated as
ω_(pl)^(sc) = $\omega\sqrt{\left|\epsilon_{1}^{sc}(\omega)\right|}$. At
5.4 K we obtain ω_(pl)^(sc) = 400 cm⁻¹. According to our model fit the
spectral weight of a narrow Drude conductivity peak in the normal state
is approximately of the same size, ω_(pl) = 480 cm⁻¹. Therefore, it is
reasonable to assume that the charge carriers in the narrow Drude peak
condense into a delta peak conserving the spectral weight when the
sample becomes superconducting. Using these two values we obtain the
London penetration depth λ_(L) = (2 πσ_(pl)^(sc))⁻¹ in a range from 3.3
to 4 μm. From the transverse-field muon spin relaxation study the
in-plane London penetration depth λ∥ = 0.26 μm was obtained. [18] An
estimate of the out-of-plane penetration depth λ_(L)^(⊥), using an
anisotropy ratio 5.2, based on the investigation of the upper critical
field, [18] can be done. For the out-of-plane penetration depth we
obtain λ_(L)^(⊥) = 5.2λ∥ = 1.3 μm. It is not surprising that the
penetration depth determined from the optical properties measured on a
polycrystalline sample is larger than the in-plane value. In the
polycrystalline sample both directions, in plane and out of plane, are
probed and the average is observed. In HTCS materials it turned out that
the reflectance and the Kramers-Kronig-derived optical conductivity of
polycrystalline samples [19] were almost like pure out-of-plane
properties. [20] In the extreme limit we can assume the measured optical
properties of the polycrystalline Y₂C₂I₂ are properties perpendicular to
the highly conducting planes as well. Then the anisotropy ratio is 15-20
according to the muon spin relaxation in-plane value 0.26 μm, and the
optical out-of-plane value is 3.3-4 μm. A similar situation was
encountered in HTCS materials, where from the critical field
measurements an anisotropy ratio of 6 was deduced, [21] while according
to optical measurements [20, 22] it was approximately 40. The large
out-of-plane penetration depth could be explained by the large effective
mass of the charge carriers in the direction perpendicular to the planes
where the conduction band has a small dispersion.

To obtain a clearer picture of the evolution of the optical properties
of Y₂C₂I₂ with temperature, in Fig. 3 we plot the ratio of the
reflectance and the conductivity measured at temperature T to those
measured at 15 K (in the normal state). We see that the reflectance does
not change between 15 and 8 K. Below 8 K there is a gradual increase in
the ratio toward lower frequencies starting at 20 cm⁻¹. Above this
frequency the reflectance is lower in the superconducting state than in
the normal state. The reflectance ratio crosses unity at 20 cm⁻¹ at 5.4
K. The crossing point shifts to lower frequencies as the temperature
rises. At 8 and 9 K, where the sample is still superconducting, the
unity crossing of the reflectance ratio may lie below our low-frequency
limit of 5 cm⁻¹. Unity crossing in R_(sc)/R_(n) occurs at the same
frequency where the normal and superconducting states ϵ₁ cross [Fig.
2(c)]. Therefore, the observed unity crossing in R_(sc)/R_(n) is an
interplay of the narrow Drude peak in the normal state and of the
superconducting delta peak contribution to the dielectric permittivity.

Although a very pronounced decrease of the conductivity is seen in the
superconducting state [see Fig. 2(b)], indicative of an energy gap
opening, an extraction of the value of 2Δ cannot be done because of a
residual contribution to the conductivity. We can try to obtain
information about the gap value from the reflectivity ratio
R_(sc)/R_(n). Within the BCS formalism, the spectrum of R_(sc)/R_(n)
peaks at 2Δ for the dirty limit (τ⁻¹ 2Δ) superconductor, while in the
clean limit the peak broadens considerably, making its assignment to a
gap feature difficult. [23] For example, the gap obtained from the
reflectance ratio was recently reported in another carbide
superconductor Lu(Ni_(1 − x)Co_(x))₂B₂C, which, due to the substitution
of cobalt for nickel, is put in the dirty limit. [24] The reflectance
ratios measured for Y₂C₂I₂ are presented in Fig. 3(a). As the figure
shows, there is no maximum observed at any temperature, although a
flattening is clearly detected in the spectra around 7 cm⁻¹ in the
superconducting state. This is consistent with the behavior of the
conductivity ratio [Fig. 3(b)], where no minimum is observed down to the
lowest frequency. The optical gap in Y₂C₂I₂ is expected to be 2Δ = 30
cm⁻¹ based on the estimate of 2Δ/k_(B)T_(c) = 4.3 from

Figure 3: The frequency and temperature dependences of the reflectance
ratio (a) and of the conductivity ratio (b).

the thermodynamic properties.[8] We suggest that the gap feature in
R_(sc)/R_(n) is not observed because Y₂C₂I₂ is in the clean limit.

In conclusion, we have studied the optical low-frequency
electrodynamical response of a polycrystalline superconducting sample of
Y₂C₂I₂. We have detected the superconducting transition as an increase
of the reflection coefficient and as a strong decrease of the dielectric
permittivity and conductivity in the superconducting state. In the
superconducting state and at the lowest frequencies a finite frequency
independent conductivity is observed whose origin is presumably related
to the two-band conductivity process. From the dielectric permittivity
spectrum we have determined the London penetration depth λ_(L)= 4 μm,
and the plasma frequency of the superconducting condensate ω_(p1)^(sc)=
400 cm⁻¹. Our findings are indicative of a clean limit superconductivity
in Y₂C₂I₂. In the normal state the spectra of conductivity and
permittivity show features of a Drude-like response with an unexpectedly
low scattering rate of about 15 cm⁻¹. Further measurements at the single
crystalline samples are needed to clarify an unusual low-frequency
electrodynamics of Y₂C₂I₂.

We thank J. Kortus and O. Dolgov for helpful discussions, and P. Haas
for technical support during the infrared experiments. T.R. gratefully
acknowledges the financial support from the Max Planck Society.

## References

* [1] V.L. Ginzburg and D.A. Kirznits, Zh. Eksp. Teor. Fiz. **46**, 397
(1964) [Sov. Phys. JETP **19**, 269 (1964)]. * [2]_High-Temperature
Superconductivity_, edited by V. L. Ginzburg and D. A. Kirznits (Plenum,
New York, 1982). * [3] T. H. Geballe, in _Physics of High-Temperature
Superconductors_, edited by S. Maekawa and M. Sato, Springer Series in
Solid-State Sciences Vol. 106 (Springer-Verlag, Berlin, 1992), p. 339;
T. H. Geballe, Science **259**, 1550 (1993). * [4] A. Simon, Hj.
Mattausch, R. Eger, and R.K. Kremer, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. Engl. **30**,
1188 (1991). * [5] U. Schwanitz-Schuller and A. Simon, Z. Naturforsch. B
**40**, 710 (1985). * [6] Hj. Mattausch, R.K. Kremer, R. Eger, and A.
Simon, Z. Anorg. Allg. Chem. **609**, 7 (1992). * [7] A. Simon _et al._,
Z. Anorg. Allg. Chem. **622**, 123 (1996). * [8] W. Schnelle, R.W. Henn,
Th. Gulden, R.K. Kremer, and A. Simon, J. Appl. Phys. **83**, 7321
(1998). * [9] K. Ahn _et al._ (unpublished). * [10] G. V. Kozlov and A.
A. Volkov, in _Millimeter and Submillimeter Wave Spectroscopy of
Solids_, edited by G. Gruner (Springer-Verlag, Berlin, 1998), p. 51. *
[11] Hj. Mattausch, H. Borrmann, and A. Simon, Z. Kristallogr. **209**,
281 (1994). * [12] R.W. Henn, W. Schnelle, R.K. Kremer, and A. Simon,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **77**, 374 (1996). * [13] K. Shimakawa and K. Miyake,
Phys. Rev. B **39**, 7578 (1989). * [14] N. F. Mott, _Metal-Insulator
Transitions_ (Taylor and Francis, New York, 1990); N.F. Mott and M.
Kaveh, Adv. Phys. **34**, 329 (1985); N. F. Mott and E. Davis,
_Electronic Processes in Non-Crystalline Materials_ (Clarendon, Oxford,
1979); P.A. Lee and T.V. Ramakrishnan, Rev. Mod. Phys. **57**, 287
(1985); Kwanghee Lee, Reghu Menon, C.O. Yoon, and A.J. Heeger, Phys.
Rev. B **52**, 4779 (1995). * [15] A.B. Kuz’menko _et al._,
cond-mat/0107092 (unpublished). * [16] P. Puschnig, C. Ambrosch-Draxl,
R.W. Henn, and A. Simon, Phys. Rev. B **64**, 024519 (2001). * [17] R.W.
Henn, T. Strach, R.K. Kremer, and A. Simon, Phys. Rev. B **58**, 14 364
(1998). * [18] R.W. Henn _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **62**, 14 469 (2000). *
[19] D.A. Bonn _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **58**, 2249 (1987). * [20]
C.C. Homes _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **71**, 1645 (1993). * [21]
Ruixing Liang, P. Dosanjh, D.A. Bonn, W.N. Hardy, and A.J. Berlinsky,
Phys. Rev. B **50**, 4212 (1994). * [22] D.N. Basov _et al._, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **74**, 598 (1995). * [23] See, for example, T. Timusk _et al._,
Phys. Rev. B **38**, 6683 (1988). * [24] M. Windt _et al._, Phys. Rev. B
**65**, 064506 (2002).
