Doping evolution of the superconducting gap structure in the underdoped
iron arsenide Ba_(1 − x)K_(x)Fe₂As₂ revealed by thermal conductivity

J.-Ph. Reid

1 Doi.taillefer@usherbrooke.ca

M. A. Tanatar

2 Ames Laboratory USDOE and Department of Physics and Astronomy, Iowa
State University, Ames, Iowa 50011, USA

X. G. Luo

1 Doi.taillefer@usherbrooke.ca

H. Shakeripour

1 Departement de Physique and RQMP, Universite de Sherbrooke,
Sherbrooke, Quebec, Canada J1K 2R1

1 Doi.taillefer@usherbrooke.ca

S. Rene de Cotret

Departement de Physique and RQMP, Universite de Sherbrooke, Sherbrooke,
Quebec, Canada J1K 2R1

1 Doi.taillefer@usherbrooke.ca

A. Juneau-Fecteau

Departement de Physique and RQMP, Universite de Sherbrooke, Sherbrooke,
Quebec, Canada J1K 2R1

1 Doi.taillefer@usherbrooke.ca

J. Chang

Departement de Physique and RQMP, Universite de Sherbrooke, Sherbrooke,
Quebec, Canada J1K 2R1

1 Doi.taillefer@usherbrooke.ca

B. Shen

Center for Superconducting Physics and Materials, National Laboratory of
Solid State Microstructures and Department of Physics, Nanjing
University, Nanjing 210093, China

H.-H. Wen

Center for Advanced Research, Toronto, Ontario, Canada M5G 1Z8

H. Kim

Ames Laboratory USDOE and Department of Physics and Astronomy, Iowa
State University, Ames, Iowa 50011, USA

R. R. Prozorov

Ames Laboratory USDOE and Department of Physics and Astronomy, Iowa
State University, Ames, Iowa 50011, USA

N. Doiron-Leyraud

Departement de Physique and RQMP, Universite de Sherbrooke, Sherbrooke,
Quebec, Canada J1K 2R1

1 Doi.taillefer@usherbrooke.ca

Louis Taillefer

27 January 2016January 2016January 2016January 2016January 2016January
2016January 2016January 2016January 2016January 2016

###### Abstract

The thermal conductivity κ of the iron-arsenide superconductor
Ba_(1 − x)K_(x)Fe₂As₂ was measured for heat currents parallel and
perpendicular to the tetragonal c axis at temperatures down to 50 mK and
in magnetic fields up to 15 T. Measurements were performed on samples
with compositions ranging from optimal doping (x = 0.34, $T_{\rm c}=39$
K) down to dopings deep into the region where antiferromagnetic order
coexists with superconductivity (x = 0.16, $T_{\rm c}=7$ K). In zero
field, there is no residual linear term in κ(T) as T → 0 at any doping,
whether for in-plane or interplane transport. This shows that there are
no nodes in the superconducting gap. However, as x decreases into the
range of coexistence with antiferromagnetism, the residual linear term
grows more and more rapidly with applied magnetic field. This shows that
the superconducting energy gap develops minima at certain locations on
the Fermi surface and these minima deepen with decreasing x. We propose
that the minima in the gap structure arise when the Fermi surface of
Ba_(1 − x)K_(x)Fe₂As₂ is reconstructed by the antiferromagnetic order.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.93.214519

## I Introduction

Soon after the discovery of superconductivity in iron-based materials
[1], it was recognized that a conventional phonon-mediated pairing
cannot account for the high critical temperature $T_{\rm c}$[2]. The
observation of superconductivity in proximity to a magnetic quantum
critical point [3] points instead to magnetically mediated pairing [4],
a scenario also discussed for cuprate and heavy-fermion materials [5].
Because such pairing is based on a repulsive interaction, it implies
that the superconducting order parameter must change sign around the
Fermi surface [6]. This is the case for the d-wave state realized in
cuprate superconductors, where the gap has symmetry-imposed nodes where
the Fermi surface crosses the diagonals at k_(x) = k_(y). In the s_(±)
state proposed for iron-based superconductors [7], there are no
symmetry-imposed nodes, but the order parameter has a different sign on
the hole and electron pockets. One can see that in order to identify the
pairing symmetry, associated with a particular pairing mechanism, it is
important to determine the anisotropy of the gap structure.

In the iron-based superconductors, the superconducting gap structure has
been studied most extensively in the oxygen-free materials with BaFe₂As₂
(Ba122) as a parent compound [8]. High-quality single crystals can be
grown with various types of dopants to induce superconductivity in the
parent antiferromagnet, including hole doping with potassium in
Ba_(1 − x)K_(x)Fe₂As₂ (K-Ba122) [9], electron doping with cobalt in
Ba(Fe_(1 − x)Co_(x))₂As₂ (Co-Ba122) [10, 11], and isoelectron
substitution of arsenic with phosphorus in BaFe₂(As_(1 − x)P_(x))₂
(P-Ba122) [12].

Early on, an angle-resolved photoemission spectroscopy study of
optimally doped K-Ba122 found a full superconducting gap on all sheets
of the Fermi surface [13]. This was explained within the s_(±) scenario
[14]. However, subsequent studies of the superconducting gap structure
in Ba122 revealed considerable diversity. In P-Ba122, the gap is nodal
for all dopings [15, 16]. In Co-Ba122, the gap is isotropic at optimal
doping but it develops nodes in both under- and overdoped compositions
[17, 18, 19, 20, 21]. In K-Ba122, the gap is also isotropic at optimal
doping [13, 22], but it develops some k dependence with decreasing x[23,
24, 25, 26], and there are nodes in the gap at x = 1.0 (KFe₂As₂) [27,
28, 29, 30, 31, 32], where the pairing symmetry may in fact be d wave
[33, 30, 22, 30].

This diversity in the gap structure has been attributed in part to a
competition between intraband and interband pairing interactions [34,
35]. Another factor that can affect the gap structure is the presence of
a coexisting antiferromagnetic order [36]. The importance of the
coexisting magnetism for the superconducting gap structure of hole-doped
K-Ba122 was suggested by a previous penetration depth study [25], which
found a rapid loss of superfluid response on underdoping into the
coexistence range. A similar decrease was observed in electron-doped
Co-122 [37]. In this paper, we report a study of the superconducting gap
structure in K-Ba122 using directional heat transport measurements, for
concentrations that cross into the region of the phase diagram where
superconductivity and antiferromagnetism coexist. We observe that the
gap, which is isotropic just above the coexistence region, gradually
develops k dependence as the magnetic order grows, with minima that
deepen with decreasing x. We attribute these minima to the
reconstruction of the Fermi surface caused by the antiferromagnetic
order.

Our main findings may be summarized as follows. The superconducting gap
of K-Ba122 does not have nodes for a broad range of underdoped
compositions in the phase diagram, from x = 0.16 ($T_{\rm c}=7$ K) to
x = 0.34 ($T_{\rm c}=39$ K). However, a notable modulation of the
superconducting gap magnitude develops in the coexistence regime of
superconductivity and magnetism (x < 0.25), as found in a strongly
enhanced response to the application of a magnetic field. The a − c
anisotropy of heat transport in the superconducting state of K-Ba122 is
identical to the anisotropy of the normal state, suggesting that the
modulation of the superconducting energy gap is predominantly in the
conducting plane, in contrast to the electron-doped Co-Ba122 [20].

## II Methods

Single crystals of Ba_(1 − x)K_(x)Fe₂As₂ were grown using a self-flux
technique [9]. Nine samples were cut for a-axis transport and seven for
c-axis transport. The samples are labeled by their $T_{\rm c}$ value.
Details of the sample preparation, screening, compositional analysis,
and resistivity measurements can be found in Ref. [38]. The technique
for making contacts is described in Refs. [39, 40]. The superconducting
$T_{\rm c}$ of underdoped samples changes monotonically with x. We find
that the relation between $T_{\rm c}$ and x is well described by the
formula $T_{\rm c}=38.5-54(0.345-x)-690(0.345-x)^{2}$. The thermal
conductivity was measured in a standard one-heater two-thermometer
technique, described elsewhere [20], for two directions of the heat
flow: parallel (J ∥ c; κ_(c)) and perpendicular (J ∥ a; κ_(a)) to the
[001] tetragonal c axis. The magnetic field H was applied along the c
axis. Measurements were done on warming after cooling from above
$T_{\rm c}$ in a constant field, to ensure a homogeneous field
distribution in the sample. At least two samples were measured for all
compositions to ensure reproducibility. Resistivity measurements to
determine the upper critical field were performed in a _Quantum Design_
physical property measurement system down to 1.8 K.

## III Results

### Electrical resistivity

In the right panels of Fig. 1, the resistivity of four K-Ba122 samples,
normalized to its value at T = 300 K, is plotted as a function of
temperature, for both J∥a and J∥c. The values at 300 K, ρ(300 K), do not
change much with doping, and ρ(300 K) ≃ 300 and 1000-2000 μΩ cm,
respectively [38, 41]. We use the resistivity curves of each sample to
determine $T_{\rm c}$ and the residual resistivity ρ₀, obtained from a
smooth extrapolation of ρ(T) to T = 0 (see Fig. 1). We use ρ₀ to
estimate the residual value of the thermal conductivity in the normal
state, $\kappa_{\rm N}/T$, via the Wiedemann-Franz law,
$\kappa_{\rm N}/T=L_{0}/\rho_{0}$, where
$L_{0}\equiv(\pi^{2}/3)(k_{\rm B}/e)^{2}$.

### Thermal conductivity

The thermal conductivity of the same four samples, measured using the
same contacts, is also displayed in Fig. 1. The data in the top row are
for a heat current along the a axis, giving κ_(a), while the data in the
bottom panels are for the interplane heat current, giving κ_(c). The
fits show that the data below 0.3 K are well described by the power-law
function κ/T = a + bT^(a). The first term, a ≡ κ₀/T, is the residual
linear term, entirely due to electronic excitations [42]. The second
term is due to phonons, which at low temperatures are scattered by the
sample boundaries, with 1 < α < 2[43, 44]. We see that, for H = 0,
κ₀/T = 0 for all samples, within error

Figure 1: Thermal conductivity of K-Ba122 at four representative K
concentrations, indicated by their $T_{\rm c}$ values, plotted as κ/T vs
T for in-plane (κ_(a), top panels) and interplane (κ_(c), bottom panels)
directions of the heat current. Data are shown for three values of the
magnetic field, as indicated (data for other fields are not shown for
clarity). Lines are fits to κ/T = a + bT^(a), used to extract the
residual linear term a = κ₀/T. The rightmost panels show the electrical
resistivity of the same samples, normalized to its value at T = 300 K,
as a function of temperature. The line is a fit to the data at low
temperatures, extended to T = 0 to extract the residual resistivity ρ₀.
For clarity, only the fits for samples with $T_{\rm c}\equiv 7$ and 38 K
are shown.

bars. At the highest doping ($T_{\rm c}=37-38$ K), κ₀/T remains
negligible even when a magnetic field of 15 T is applied. At lower K
concentration, however, κ₀/T increases significantly upon application of
a magnetic field. Our current data are consistent with our previous
measurement of $\kappa_{\rm a}$ in a K-Ba122 sample with $T_{\rm c}=26$
K [23].

Figure 2 shows how the residual linear term κ₀/T evolves as a function
of magnetic field H, for both in-plane (top panel) and interplane
(bottom panel) heat current directions. In this figure, κ₀/T is
normalized by the sample’s normal-state conductivity,
$\kappa_{\rm N}/T$, and the magnetic field is normalized by the sample’s
upper critical field $H_{\rm c2}$ (determined as described in the next
section). In Fig. 4, the ratio $(\kappa_{0}/T)/(\kappa_{\rm N}/T)$ is
plotted as a function of K concentration x, for two values of the
magnetic field: H = 0 and 0.15$H_{\rm c2}$ .

### Upper critical field

In the left panel of Fig. 3, we plot the upper critical field
$H_{\rm c2}$ as a function of temperature, for four values of x, as
determined from resistivity measurements for H∥c. For the sample at
x = 0.16 ($T_{\rm c}=7$ K), a field of 15 T is sufficient to reach the
normal state. Using the fact that κ₀/T saturates above H ≃ 9 T in that
sample, we estimate that $H_{\rm c2}=9$ T at T → 0. We see that this
value agrees with a linear extrapolation of the resistively determined
$H_{\rm c2}$ (T). For the other dopings, we obtain $H_{\rm c2}$ (0), the
value of $H_{\rm c2}$ (T) at T → 0, by linear extrapolation. Note that
the slope of the $H_{\rm c2}$ (T) curves increases with increasing
$T_{\rm c}$ , as expected for superconductors in the clean limit [41],
which holds for K-Ba122 at all dopings. In the right panel of Fig. 3, we
plot $H_{\rm c2}$ (0) versus $T_{\rm c}$ , including published data from
a sample with a slightly higher concentration [41].

## IV Discussion

From Fig. 2, three main characteristics of the gap structure of K-Ba122
can be deduced. First, the fact that in zero field κ₀/T = 0 at all
dopings, for both current directions, immediately implies that there are
no zero-energy quasiparticles at H = 0. From this we can infer that
there are no nodes in the superconducting gap anywhere on the Fermi
surface.

Secondly, we see that the rate at which a magnetic field excites
heat-carrying quasiparticles in K-Ba122 varies enormously with doping.
In the absence of nodes, quasiparticle conduction proceeds by tunneling
between states localized in the cores of adjacent vortices, which grows
exponentially as the intervortex separation decreases with increasing
field [45], as observed in a superconductor with an isotropic gap like
Nb (see Fig. 2). The exponential rate is controlled by the coherence
length, which is inversely proportional to the gap magnitude. If the gap
is large everywhere on the Fermi surface, the coherence length will be
small everywhere, and the growth of $\kappa_{0}/\kappa_{\rm N}$ versus H
will be very slow at low $H/H_{\rm c2}$ . This is what we observe in
K-Ba122 near optimal doping ($T_{\rm c}\simeq 37$ K).

If the gap is small on some part of the Fermi surface, compared to the
maximum value that dictates $H_{\rm c2}$ , this will

Figure 3: Left panel: Upper critical field $H_{\rm c2}$ (T) for H∥c, as
a function of temperature, for four samples, with $T_{\rm c}=7$ (blue),
10 (magenta), 12 (green), and 19 K (black). $H_{\rm c2}$ is determined
from electrical resistivity measurements [41]. The blue square shows the
$H_{\rm c2}$ value determined from thermal conductivity measurements on
the $T_{\rm c}=7$ K sample. The lines are a linear fit of each data set,
extrapolated to T = 0. The value of $H_{\rm c2}$ thus extrapolated to
T = 0, $H_{\rm c2}$ (0) = $H_{\rm c2}$, is plotted vs x in the right
panel. Right panel: $H_{\rm c2}$ (0) vs $T_{\rm c}$ from data in the
left panel (red dots), plus one point at high doping from published data
(black diamond) [41]. The line is a polynomial fit of the data, used to
extract the values of $H_{\rm c2}$ for the samples $T_{\rm c}$ between 7
and 25 K.

Figure 2: Residual linear term κ₀/T, normalized by the normal-state
conductivity, $\kappa_{\rm N}/T$, as a function of magnetic field H,
normalized by the upper critical field $H_{\rm c2}$ (defined in Fig. 3).
The data for in-plane (J∥a, open symbols) and interplane (J∥c, closed
symbols) transport are shown for five K concentrations, indicated by
their $T_{\rm c}$ values. For comparison, we reproduce corresponding
data for the isotropic s-wave superconductor Nb [42, 45], the multiband
s-wave superconductor NbSe₂[46], and the nodal d-wave superconductor
Tl-2201 [47].

make it easier to excite quasiparticles, and so lead to an enhanced
thermal conductivity at a given value of $H/H_{\rm c2}$ . This is what
happens in K-Ba122 with decreasing x, whereby κ₀/$\kappa_{\rm N}$
becomes larger and larger with underdoping. A good way to visualize this
evolution is to plot κ₀/$\kappa_{\rm N}$ versus x at $H/H_{\rm c2}$ =
0.15, as done in Fig. 4. We infer from our in-field data that the gap
structure of K-Ba122 develops a minimum somewhere on its Fermi surface,
which gets deeper and deeper upon entering the coexisting
antiferromagnetic phase.

This is consistent with the behavior of the in-plane penetration depth
[25], which reveals a notable decrease of the superfluid stiffness in
the coexistence range, and exhibits a transformation of its temperature
dependence, $\Delta\lambda_{\rm a}(T)$, from an exponential at optimal
doping to a power law with n ≈ 2 in heavily underdoped compositions.
This is a key signature of a gap structure with strong modulation, and
possibly nodes, triggered by the onset of the long-range magnetic order.
However, unlike our directional thermal conductivity measurements,
penetration depth measurements cannot rule out the presence of
accidental nodes in the gap structure.

There are two ways in which the gap can be small on part of the Fermi
surface. It can develop a strong anisotropy on one sheet of the Fermi
surface, as is believed to happen in borocarbide superconductors [48].
It can also be small on one surface and large on another. This multiband
scenario is what happens in MgB₂ (Ref. [49]) and NbSe₂ (Ref. [44]). In
both cases, κ₀/$\kappa_{\rm N}$ grows fast, according to a field scale
H^(⋆) much smaller than $H_{\rm c2}$, as it is controlled by the minimum
gap. See Fig. 2 for the data on NbSe₂.

The third property of the κ₀/$\kappa_{\rm N}$ versus H data in Fig. 2 is
its isotropy with respect to current direction. The same behavior is
observed for in-plane and interplane heat currents. This implies that
the minima which develop in the gap structure have no strong k_(z)
dependence, i.e., they run vertically along the c axis.

In Fig. 5, we provide a sketch of how the superconducting gap structure
evolves with doping in K-Ba122, in terms of a simple one-band Fermi
surface. Since the gap modulation has no significant k_(z) dependence,
we limit our discussion to a two-dimensional picture. At high x, the gap
is isotropic (panel c), meaning that there is no indication of any
modulation of the gap with angle. Upon lowering x, the gap acquires a
modulation, with a minimum gap $\Delta_{\rm min}$ along some direction
(panel b), and the gap minimum deepens with decreasing x (panel a). This
explains why the initial rise in κ₀/$\kappa_{\rm N}$ versus H gets
steeper with decreasing x (Fig. 2).

The question is: why does the gap develop a modulation? In a number of
calculations applied to pnictides, the so-called s_(±) state is the most
stable. This is a state with s-wave symmetry but with a gap that changes
sign in going from the holelike Fermi surface centered at Γ (Δ_(h) > 0)
to the electronlike Fermi surfaces centered at X and M (Δ_(e) < 0) [50;
51; 52]. Although fundamentally nodeless, the associated gap function
can have strong modulations, depending on details of the Fermi surface
and the interactions, possibly leading to accidental nodes [35]. The gap
modulation comes from a strongly anisotropic pairing interaction, which
is also band dependent, involving the interplay of intraband and
interband interactions. It is typically the gap on the electron Fermi
surface centered at the M point of the Brillouin zone that shows a
strong angular dependence

Figure 4: Top panel: Doping phase diagram of K-Ba122, showing the onset
of the superconducting phase (SC) below the critical temperature
$T_{\rm c}$ as a function of the K concentration (doping) x. Open
(closed) red circles give the $T_{\rm c}$ values of the a-axis (c-axis)
samples used in this study. For compositions to the left of the dashed
blue line at x ≃ 0.25 ($T_{\rm c}\simeq 26$ K) [38; 53],
superconductivity coexists with antiferromagnetism (AFM). Bottom:
Residual linear term in the thermal conductivity κ as T → 0, κ₀/T,
plotted as a fraction of the normal-state conductivity,
$\kappa_{\rm N}/T$, for both $\kappa_{\rm a}$ (open symbols) and
$\kappa_{\rm c}$ (closed symbols), for magnetic fields H = 0 (red) and
$H=0.15H_{\rm c2}$ (black). Error bars reflect the combined
uncertainties of extrapolating κ/T and ρ to T = 0, to get κ₀/T and ρ₀.
The red vertical dashed line at x = 0.15 marks the end of the
superconducting phase.

Figure 5: Sketch of the evolution of the gap structure in K-Ba122 with
doping x, where the gap (green dash line) is shown around a single Fermi
surface (black circle). The gap is isotropic at optimal doping (c). The
modulation of the gap starts upon entering the region where
antiferromagnetism (AFM) appears, and coexists with superconductivity
(panel b). The gap minimum deepens with decreasing x (panel a).

within the basal plane [51, 52]. Therefore, the evolution of the gap
structure detected here in K-Ba122, going from isotropic to modulated
with decreasing x, is compatible with the general findings of such
calculations. In Co-Ba122, the development of gap modulations with
overdoping was attributed to such a change in interactions [20].

We propose that another mechanism is at play on the underdoped side of
the phase diagram, having to do with the onset of antiferromagnetic
order. This is based on the fact that the modulation of the gap and the
magnetic order appear at the same concentration, as seen in Fig. 4.

Neutron-scattering studies show that antiferromagnetic order in K-Ba122
coexists with superconductivity over a broad range of doping, up to
x ≃ 0.25 ($T_{\rm c}\simeq 26$ K), and both magnetism and
superconductivity are bulk and occupy at least 95

Antiferromagnetism in K-Ba122 causes a reconstruction of the Fermi
surface whereby the Γ-centered hole pocket becomes superimposed on the
edge-centered electron pocket, as sketched in Fig. 6. Energy gaps open
at the points where the original two Fermi pockets cross, resulting in
the formation of four small crescent-shaped pieces (Fig. 6). Maiti _et
al._[36] showed theoretically that such a reconstruction triggers a
strong modulation of the superconducting gap, which develops strong
minima, and possibly even (accidental) nodes, at the crossing points. It
therefore seems natural to attribute the appearance of gap minima in
underdoped K-Ba122 to the onset of magnetic order.

It is known that the orthorhombic distortion and the superconductivity
are intimately coupled in KBa122 [56]. It was shown theoretically that
when both the superconducting and the orthorhombic order parameters are
taken into account the anisotropy of the superconducting coherence
length can be greatly enhanced [57]. This could also explain the
appearance of the gap anisotropy in this material.

In underdoped Co-Ba122, a similar thermal conductivity study revealed
that a strong modulation of the gap also appears with the onset of
magnetic order [20]. So the two materials tell a consistent story. In
Fig. 7, we compare the evolution of the gap as found in thermal
conductivity measurements on the two sides of the phase diagram of
BaFe₂As₂: the electron-doped side (Co-Ba122) and the hole-doped side
(K-Ba122). In both cases, the gap is isotropic close to optimal doping,
and it develops a strong modulation with underdoping, concomitant with
the onset of antiferromagnetism.

However, there is a difference between K-Ba122 and Co-Ba122. The former
does not develop nodes, while the latter does. These nodes are in
regions of the Fermi surface with strong k_(z) dispersion, as they give
rise to a large zero-field value of κ₀/T for J||c, but not for J||a
(Fig. 7, bottom panel) [20].

## V Summary

In summary, the thermal conductivity of K-Ba122 in the T = 0 limit
reveals three main facts. First, the superconducting

Figure 6: (a) Sketch of the evolution of the superconducting gap
structure (dashed line) in K-Ba122 as the Fermi surface (solid line) is
reconstructed by antiferromagnetic order with a wave vector ${\bf Q}$ as
drawn [36]. (b) When the hole (red) and electron (blue) pockets overlap
as a result of Fermi-surface reconstruction, an energy gap opens at the
crossing points, and this leads to the formation of small crescentlike
pieces. Calculations show that this can lead to the development of
minima in the superconducting gap, or even nodes [36].

Figure 7: Comparison of the superconducting gap anisotropy determined
from thermal conductivity studies in electron-doped Co-Ba122 (left
column) [19, 20] and hole-doped K-Ba122 (right column, this work). The
top panels show the phase diagrams of both materials. The middle and
bottom panels show $\kappa_{0}/\kappa_{\rm N}$ vs x for
H = 0.15$H_{\rm c2}$ and H = 0, respectively. Open (closed) symbols
correspond to transport along J||a (J∥c).

gap at optimal doping, where $T_{\rm c}$ is maximal, is isotropic, with
no sign of significant modulation anywhere on the Fermi surface. This
reinforces the statement made earlier on the basis of thermal
conductivity data in Co-Ba122 [20], that superconductivity in pnictides
is strongest when isotropic, pointing fundamentally to a state with
s-wave symmetry, at least in the high-$T_{\rm c}$ members of the
pnictide family. Secondly, with underdoping, the superconducting gap
becomes small in some parts of the Fermi surface. The minimum gap gets
weaker and weaker with decreasing x. Because this modulation of the gap
appears with the onset of antiferromagnetic order, we attribute it to
the associated reconstruction of the Fermi surface. Third, although it
acquires minima, the superconducting gap structure of underdoped K-Ba122
never develops nodes, where the gap goes to zero. This is in contrast
with underdoped Co-Ba122, the gap of which does have nodes.

###### Acknowledgements.

We thank A. V. Chubukov, R. M. Fernandes, P. J. Hirschfeld, D.-H. Lee,
and I. I. Mazin for fruitful discussions and J. Corbin for his
assistance with the experiments. The work at Sherbrooke was supported by
a Canada Research Chair, the Canadian Institute for Advanced Research,
the Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada (NSERC),
the Fonds de Recherche du Quebec–Nature et Technologies (FRQNT), and the
Canada Foundation for Innovation. The work at the Ames Laboratory was
supported by the U.S. Department of Energy Basic Energy Sciences under
Contract No. DE-AC02-07CH11358. The work in China was supported by
National Natural Science Foundation of China and the MOST of China
(Grant No. 2011CBA00100). H.S. acknowledges the support of the Iran
National Science Foundation.

## References

* [1] Y. Kamihara, T. Watanabe, M. Hirano, and H. Hosono, J. Am. Chem.
Soc. **130**, 3296 (2008). * [2] L. Boeri, O. V. Dolgov, and A. A.
Golubov, Phys. Rev. Lett. **101**, 026403 (2008). * [3] L. Taillefer,
Ann. Rev. Cond. Matter Physics **1**, 51 (2010). * [4] P. Monthoux, D.
Pines, and G. G. Lonzarich, Nature (London) **450**, 1177 (2007). * [5]
M. R. Norman, Science **332**, 196 (2011). * [6] D. J. Scalapino, Rev.
Mod. Phys. **84**, 1383 (2012). * [7] I. I. Mazin, D. J. Singh, M. D.
Johannes, and M. H. Du, Phys. Rev. Lett. **101**, 057003 (2008). * [8]
M. Rotter, M. Tegel, and D. Johrendt, Phys. Rev. Lett. **101**, 107006
(2008). * [9] H. Q. Luo, Z. S. Wang, H. Yang, P. Cheng, X. Zhu, and
H.-H. Wen, Supercond. Sci. Technol. **21**, 125014 (2008). * [10] A. S.
Sefat, R. Jin, M. A. McGuire, B. C. Sales, D. J. Singh, and D. Mandrus,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **101**, 117004 (2008). * [11] P. C. Canfield and S. L.
Bud’ko, Ann. Rev. Cond. Mat. Phys. **1**, 27 (2010). * [12] S. Kasahara,
T. Shibauchi, K. Hashimoto, K. Ikada, S. Tonegawa, R. Okazaki, H.
Shishido, H. Ikeda, H. Takeya, K. Hirata, T. Terashima, and Y. Matsuda,
Phys. Rev. B **81**, 184519 (2010). * [13] H. Ding, P. Richard, K.
Nakayama, K. Sugawara, T. Arakane, Y. Sekiba, A. Takayama, S. Souma, T.
Sato, T. Takahashi, Z. Wang, X. Dai, Z. Fang, G. F. Chen, J. L. Luo, and
N. L. Wang, Europhys. Lett. **83**, 47001 (2008). * [14] I. I. Mazin,
Nature (London) **464**, 183 (2010). * [15] K. Hashimoto, K. Cho, T.
Shibauchi, S. Kasahara, Y. Mizukami, R. Katsumata, Y. Tsuruhara, T.
Terashima, H. Ikeda, M. A. Tanatar, H. Kitano, N. Salovich, R. W.
Giannetta, P. Walmsley, A. Carrington, R. Prozorov, and Y. Matsuda,
Science **336**, 1554 (2012). * [16] X. Qiu, S. Y. Zhou, H. Zhang, B. Y.
Pan, X. C. Hong, Y. F. Dai, Man Jin Eom, Jun Sung Kim, Z. R. Ye, Y.
Zhang, D. L. Feng, and S. Y. Li, Phys. Rev. X **2**, 011010 (2012). *
[17] R. T. Gordon, C. Martin, H. Kim, N. Ni, M. A. Tanatar, J.
Schmalian, I. I. Mazin, S. L. Bud’ko, P. C. Canfield, and R. Prozorov,
Phys. Rev. B **79**, 100506(R) (2009). * [18] C. Martin, H. Kim, R. T.
Gordon, N. Ni, V. G. Kogan, S. L. Bud’ko, P. C. Canfield, M. A. Tanatar,
and R. Prozorov, Phys. Rev. B **81**, 060505 (2010). * [19] M. A.
Tanatar, J.-Ph. Reid, H. Shakeripour, X. G. Luo, N. Doiron-Leyraud, N.
Ni, S. L. Bud’ko, P. C. Canfield, R. Prozorov, and L. Taillefer, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **104**, 067002 (2010). * [20] J.-P. Reid, M. A. Tanatar, X.
G. Luo, H. Shakeripour, N. Doiron-Leyraud, N. Ni, S. L. Bud’ko, P. C.
Canfield, R. Prozorov, and L. Taillefer, Phys. Rev. B **82**, 064501
(2010). * [21] K. Gofryk, A. S. Sefat, M. A. McGuire, B. C. Sales, D.
Mandrus, J. D. Thompson, E. D. Bauer, and F. Ronning, Phys. Rev. B
**81**, 184518 (2010). * [22] J.-Ph. Reid, A. Juneau-Fecteau, R. T.
Gordon, S. Rene de Cotret, N. Doiron-Leyraud, X. G. Luo, H. Shakeripour,
J. Chang, M. A. Tanatar, H. Kim, R. Prozorov, T. Saito, H. Fukazawa, Y.
Kohori, K. Kihou, C. H. Lee, A. Iyo, H. Eisaki, B. Shen, H.-H. Wen, and
Louis Taillefer, Supercond. Sci. Technol. **25**, 084013 (2012). * [23]
X. G. Luo, M. A. Tanatar, J.-Ph. Reid, H. Shakeripour, N.
Doiron-Leyraud, N. Ni, S. L. Bud’ko, P. C. Canfield, H. Luo, Z. Wang,
H.-H. Wen, R. Prozorov, and L. Taillefer, Phys. Rev. B **80**, 140503(R)
(2009). * [24] C. Martin, R. T. Gordon, M. A. Tanatar, H. Kim, N. Ni, S.
L. Bud’ko, P. C. Canfield, H. Luo, H. H. Wen, Z. Wang, A. B. Vorontsov,
V. G. Kogan, and R. Prozorov, Phys. Rev. B **80**, 020501(R) (2009). *
[25] H. Kim, M. A. Tanatar, W. E. Straszheim, K. Cho, J. Murphy, N.
Spyrison, J.-P. Reid, B. Shen, H.-H. Wen, R. M. Fernandes, and R.
Prozorov, Phys. Rev. B **90**, 014517 (2014). * [26] K. Cho, M.
Korczykowski, J. Murphy, H. Kim, M. A. Tanatar, W. E. Straszheim, B.
Shen, H. H. Wen, and R. Prozorov, Phys. Rev. B **90**, 104514 (2014). *
[27] H. Fukazawa, Y. Yamada, K. Kondo, T. Saito, Y. Kohori, K. Kuga, Y.
Matsumoto, S. Nakatsuji, H. Kito, P. M. Shirage, K. Kihou, N. Takeshita,
C.-H. Lee, A. Iyo, and H. Eisaki, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **78**, 033704
(2009). * [28] K. Hashimoto, A. Serafin, S. Tonegawa, R. Katsumata, R.
Okazaki, T. Saito, H. Fukazawa, Y. Kohori, K. Kihou, C. H. Lee, A. Iyo,
H. Eisaki, H. Ikeda, Y. Matsuda, A. Carrington, and T. Shibauchi, Phys.
Rev. B **82**, 014526 (2010). * [29] J. K. Dong, S. Y. Zhou, T. Y. Guan,
H. Zhang, Y. F. Dai, X. Qiu, X. F. Wang, Y. He, X. H. Chen, and S. Y.
Li, Phys. Rev. Lett. **104**, 087005 (2010).

* Reid _et al._ [2012]J.-Ph. Reid, M. A. Tanatar, A. Juneau-Fecteau, R.
T. Gordon, S. R. de Cotret, N. Doiron-Leyraud, T. Saito, H. Fukazawa, Y.
Kohori, K. Kihou, C. H. Lee, A. Iyo, H. Eisaki, R. Prozorov, and L.
Taillefer, Phys. Rev. Lett. **109**, 087001 (2012). * Watanabe _et al._
[2014]D. Watanabe, T. Yamashita, Y. Kawamoto, S. Kurata, Y. Mizukami, T.
Ohta, S. Kasahara, M. Yamashita, T. Saito, H. Fukazawa, Y. Kohori, S.
Ishida, K. Kihou, C. H. Lee, A. Iyo, H. Eisaki, A. B. Vorontsov, T.
Shibauchi, and Y. Matsuda, Phys. Rev. B **89**, 115112 (2014). * Okazaki
_et al._ [2012]K. Okazaki, Y. Ota, Y. Kotani, W. Malaeb, Y. Ishida, T.
Shimojima, T. Kiss, S. Watanabe, C.-T. Chen, K. Kihou, C. H. Lee, A.
Iyo, H. Eisaki, T. Saito, H. Fukazawa, Y. Kohori, K. Hashimoto, T.
Shibauchi, Y. Matsuda, H. Ikeda, H. Miyahara, R. Arita, A. Chainani, and
S. Shin, Science **337**, 1314 (2012). * Thomale _et al._ [2011]R.
Thomale, C. Platt, W. Hanke, J. Hu, and B. A. Bernevig, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**107**, 117001 (2011). * Chubukov [2012]A. V. Chubukov, Annu. Rev.
Cond. Mat. Phys. **3**, 57 (2012). * Hirschfeld _et al._ [2011]P. J.
Hirschfeld, M. M. Korshunov, and I. I. Mazin, Rep. Prog. Phys. **74**,
124508 (2011). * Maiti _et al._ [2012]S. Maiti, R. M. Fernandes, and A.
V. Chubukov, Phys. Rev. B **85**, 144527 (2012). * Gordon _et al._
[2010]R. T. Gordon, H. Kim, N. Salovich, R. W. Giannetta, R. M.
Fernandes, V. G. Kogan, T. Prozorov, S. L. Bud’ko, P. C. Canfield, M. A.
Tanatar, and R. Prozorov, Phys. Rev. B **82**, 054507 (2010). * Tanatar
_et al._ [2014]M. A. Tanatar, W. E. Straszheim, Hyunsoo Kim, J. Murphy,
N. Spyrison, E. C. Blomberg, K. Cho, J.-Ph. Reid, Bing Shen, Louis
Taillefer, Hai-Hu Wen, and R. Prozorov, Phys. Rev. B **89**, 144514
(2014). * Tanatar _et al._ [2010]M. A. Tanatar, N. Ni, S. L. Bud’ko, P.
C. Canfield, and R. Prozorov, Supercond. Sci. Technol. **23**, 054002
(2010). * Tanatar _et al._ [2014]M. A. Tanatar, R. Prozorov, N. Ni, S.
L. Bud’ko, and P. C. Canfield, US Patent No. 8, 450, 246. * Liu _et al._
[2014]Y. Liu, M. A. Tanatar, W. E. Straszheim, B. Jensen, K. W. Dennis,
R. W. McCallum, V. G. Kogan, R. Prozorov, and T. A. Lograsso, Phys. Rev.
B **89**, 134504 (2014). * Shakeripour _et al._ [2009]H. Shakeripour, C.
Petrovic, and L. Taillefer, New J. Phys. **11**, 055065 (2009). *
Sutherland _et al._ [2003]M. Sutherland, D. G. Hawthorn, R. W. Hill, F.
Ronning, S. Wakimoto, H. Zhang, C. Proust, E. Boaknin, C. Lupien, L.
Taillefer, R. Liang, D. A. Bonn, W. N. Hardy, R. Gagnon, N. E. Hussey,
T. Kimura, M. Nohara, and H. Takagi, Phys. Rev. B **67**, 174520
(2003). * Li _et al._ [2008]S. Y. Li, J.-B. Bonnemaison, A. Payeur, P.
Fournier, C. H. Wang, X. H. Chen, and L. Taillefer, Phys. Rev. B **77**,
134501 (2008). * Lowell and Sousa [1970]J. Lowell and J. B. Sousa, J.
Low Temp. Phys. **3**, 65 (1970). * Boaknin _et al._ [2003]E. Boaknin,
M. A. Tanatar, J. Paglione, D. G. Hawthorn, F. Ronning, R. W. Hill, M.
Sutherland, L. Taillefer, J. Sonier, M. Hayden, and J. W. Brill, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **90**, 117003 (2003). * Proust _et al._ [2002]C. Proust, E.
Boaknin, R. W. Hill, L. Taillefer, and A. P. Mackenzie, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**89**, 147003 (2002). * Boaknin _et al._ [2001]E. Boaknin, R. W. Hill,
C. Proust, C. Lupien, L. Taillefer, and P. C. Canfield, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**87**, 237001 (2001). * Sologubenko _et al._ [2002]A. V. Sologubenko,
J. Jun, S. M. Kazakov, J. Karpinski, and H. R. Ott, Phys. Rev. B **66**,
014504 (2002). * Chubukov _et al._ [2009]A. V. Chubukov, M. G. Vavilov,
and A. B. Vorontsov, Phys. Rev. B **80**, 140515 (2009). * Wang _et al._
[2009]F. Wang, H. Zhai, Y. Ran, A. Vishwanath, and D.-H. Lee, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **102**, 047005 (2009). * Graser _et al._ [2009]S. Graser, T. A.
Maier, P. J. Hirschfeld, and D. J. Scalapino, New J. Phys. **11**,
025016 (2009). * Avei _et al._ [2011]S. Avei, O. Chmaissem, E. A.
Goremychkin, S. Rosenkranz, J.-P. Castellan, D. Y. Chung, I. S. Todorov,
J. A. Schlueter, H. Claus, M. G. Kanatzidis, A. Daoud-Aladine, D.
Khalyavin, and R. Osborn, Phys. Rev. B **83**, 172503 (2011). * Parker
_et al._ [2009]D. Parker, M. G. Vavilov, A. V. Chubukov, and I. I.
Mazin, Phys. Rev. B **80**, 100508 (2009). * Fernandes and Millis
[2013]R. M. Fernandes and A. J. Millis, Phys. Rev. Lett. **111**, 127001
(2013). * Bohmer _et al._ [2015]A. E. Bohmer, F. Hardy, L. Wang, T.
Wolf, P. Schweiss, and C. Meingast, Nat. Comm. **6**, 7911 (2015). *
Moon and Sachdev [2012]E. G. Moon and S. Sachdev, Phys. Rev. B **85**,
184511 (2012).
