# Evidence for _s_-wave superconductivity in noncentrosymmetric Re24Nb5
from 93Nb NMR measurements

C. S. Lue,^(1, *) T. H. Su,¹ H. F. Liu,¹ and Ben-Li Young²

¹Department of Physics, National Cheng Kung University, Tainan 70101,
Taiwan

²Department of Electronics, National Chiao Tung University, Hsinchu
30010, Taiwan

²Department of Electronics, National Chiao Tung University, Hsinchu
30010, Taiwan

Received 19 June 2011; revised manuscript received 25 July 2011;
published 25 August 2011

###### Abstract

We report a 93Nb nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) study on the
noncentrosymmetric superconductor Re24Nb5. Below the superconducting
temperature T_(c)(H), the spin susceptibility probed by the 93Nb NMR
Knight shift gradually decreases with lowering temperature, accompanied
by the broadening of the resonance spectrum. Such behavior is commonly
observed in the BCS-type superconductors. The 93Nb NMR spin-lattice
relaxation rate (1/T₁) shows a well-defined coherence peak just below
T_(c)(H), followed by a marked decrease with further decreasing
temperature. Moreover, the 1/T₁ data in the superconducting state were
found to obey a single exponential expression, yielding a nodeless gap
Δ/k_(B) = 10.3 K. This value gives the ratio of 2Δ/k_(B)T_(c)(H) = 3.55,
that is almost identical with the value of 3.5 predicted from BCS
theory. On these bases, we conclude that the noncentrosymmetric Re24Nb5
compound can be characterized as a weakly coupled BCS-type
superconductor.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.84.052509 PACS number(s): 74.70.Ad, 76.60.Cq

## I Introduction

There is general agreement from intense experimental and theoretical
research that the antisymmetric spin-orbit coupling (ASOC) will be
enhanced in the superconducting (SC) materials where the atomic sites
have a lack of spatial inversion symmetry.[1, 2, 3, 4] Such enhancement
would lead to the lifting of spin degeneracy and the splitting of the
energy bands. Consequently, the superconducting order parameter does not
have definite parity but may appear as a mixture of the spin-singlet and
spin-triplet states.[1, 2, 3, 4] Superconductors, such as CePt₃Si,
Mg₁₂Ir₁₉B₁₅, Li₂Pt₃B, Re₃W, Mo₃Al₂C, CaIrSi₃, etc.,[5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10,
11, 12, 13] have been reported to possess noncentrosymmetric
characteristics. Among these rare-earth and transition metal based
noncentrosymmetric superconductors, the _d_-electron systems are more
suitable for exploring the issue of inversion symmetry breaking because
the strong electron correlations in _f_-electron contained materials
usually complicate the superconducting properties.

Re24Nb5, although its superconductivity was discovered four decades
ago,[14, 15] has been recognized as a noncentrosymmetric superconductor
based on the recent study of the nearly stoichiometric compound
Re0.82Nb0.18 (equivalent to Re23.8Nb5.2) by Karki and coworkers.[16]
This material crystallizes in the Re24Ti5-type structure with the space
group $I\bar{4}3m$ (No. 217). Within this crystal structure, there are
two nonequivalent crystallographic niobium sites and two rhenium sites
in Re24Nb5. Among them, only the Nb(1) site (2a in Wyckoff notation)
displays an inversion center. Since the Re atom is a heavy element, the
effect of ASOC is expected to be strong in Re24Nb5. This would provide
an opportunity for the searching for the existence of a mixture of the
spin-singlet and spin-triplet states in the SC phase of this compound.

In this Brief Report, we present the results of a 93Nb nuclear magnetic
resonance (NMR) study in the normal and superconducting states of
Re24Nb5. The spin-lattice relaxation rate (1/T₁) data were found to
exhibit a constant T₁T relationship in the normal state and a rapid
decrease in the SC state, accompanied by the presence of a distinct
coherence peak just below the SC transition temperature T_(c)(H). These
observations are in agreement with an _s_-wave model with a single
nodeless gap Δ/k_(B) ≃ 10.3 K. This result yields 2Δ/k_(B)T_(c)(H) =
3.55, almost identical with the BCS value of 3.5, suggesting a weakly
coupled BCS-type superconductivity for Re24Nb5.

## II Experimental results and discussion

A nominally stoichiometric Re24Nb5 sample was prepared from 99.997

DC magnetization M measurements were carried out using a superconducting
quantum interference device (SQUID) magnetometer measured at a field
H_(o) = 10 Oe under zero-field-cooled (ZFC) and field-cooled (FC)
processes. The temperature dependence of M/H_(o) for Re24Nb5 is
illustrated in Fig. 2. The observed diamagnetic behavior below the
transition temperature T_(c) ≃ 8.7 K confirms the occurrence of
superconductivity in this material. Here T_(c) was defined as the onset
of the diamagnetic response in the magnetization data, as indicated by
the arrow in Fig. 2. It is worthwhile mentioning that we prepared
several specimens with slight excess Nb and Re concentrations from the
stoichiometry but found minor changes on the value of T_(c). Such an
observation is consistent with the reported result by Karki _et al.[16]_

NMR measurements were performed using a Varian 300 spectrometer with a
constant field of 6.94 T. The magnitude of T_(c) is reduced to T_(c)(H)
= 5.8 K by such of the external field employed in our NMR experiment.
The specimen was put in a plastic vial that showed no observable ⁹³Nb
NMR signal.¹⁷ The ⁹³Nb NMR central transition lines were obtained by the
Fourier transform of a half of the spin-echo signal using a standard
π/2 − τ − π sequence. Within the Re₂₄Ti₅-type crystal structure, there
are two crystallographic Nb sites, Nb(1) and Nb(2), with population
ratio of 1:4. Hence, the observed ⁹³Nb NMR line shape is mainly featured
by the Nb(2) site while a small hump at the higher frequency could be
associated with Nb(1). Several representative spectra taken below and
above 5.8 K are displayed in Fig. 3. It is apparent that the resonance
line becomes broad below T_(c)(H), typical behavior due to a spatial
field modulation in the mixed state of type-II superconductors. In the
inset of Fig. 4, we presented the temperature variation of the line
width Δν, estimated from the full width at half maximum (FWHM) of the
main line.

The observed temperature-dependent ⁹³Nb Knight shift (⁹³K) of Re₂₄Nb₅ is
given in Fig. 4. Here ⁹³K was evaluated from the position of the maximum
of each spectrum with respect to an aqueous KNbO₆ solution reference.¹⁸
Note that the error bars here were taken as the accuracy for the
determination of the maximum. The obtained ⁹³K is positive and shows
temperature independence in a normal state, being consistent with the
Pauli-type paramagnetic nature for Re₂₄Nb₅. The large positive ⁹³K value
of about 0.41

Figure 4: (Color online) Temperature dependence of the ⁹³Nb NMR Knight
shift for Re₂₄Nb₅. Inset: the temperature variation of the line width
Δν, estimated from the full width at half maximum of the main line.

Figure 3: (Color online) ⁹³Nb NMR central transition line shapes of
Re₂₄Nb₅ measured at various temperatures in a magnetic field of 6.94 T.
Each spectrum is normalized to its maximum intensity for clarity.

Figure 2: (Color online) Temperature dependence of M/H_(o) under
zero-field-cooled and field-cooled processes for Re₂₄Nb₅ measured at
H_(o) = 10 Oe.

by core polarization, thus providing a directly quantitative probe of
electronic DOS changes.

The spin-lattice relaxation time T₁ measurement was carried out using
the inversion recovery method. We recorded the signal strength by
integrating the recovered spin echo signal. In these experiments, the
relaxation process involves the adjacent pairs of spin levels, and the
corresponding T₁ is a multiexponential expression.[22] For the central
transition with $I=\frac{9}{2}$, the recovery of the nuclear
magnetization m follows

$$\frac{m(t)-m(\infty)}{m(\infty)} = -2\alpha\big{(}0.152e^{-\frac{t}{T_{1}}}+0.14e^{-\frac{\theta}{T_ {1}}}+0.153e^{-\frac{15}{T_{1}}}$$
(1)
$$\mbox{}+0.192e^{-\frac{2\theta}{T_{1}}}+0.363e^{-\frac{4\theta}{T _{1}}}\big{)}.$$

Here m(t) is the magnetization at the recovery time t, and m(∞) is the
magnetization after a long time recovery. The parameter α is a
fractional value derived from the initial conditions used in our
experiments. Each T₁ value was thus obtained by fitting to this
multiexponential recovery curve. The observed temperature dependence of
1/T₁ for Re₂₄Nb₅ is depicted in Fig. 5.

Above 5.8 K, 1/T₁ obeys the Korringa relation with a constant T₁T = 14.6
s K. A well-defined coherence peak (Hebel-Slichter peak)[23] appears
just below T_(c)(H), followed by a marked decrease down to 2.6 K. These
characteristics are commonly observed within the BCS-type
superconductors. In the inset of Fig. 5, we plotted 1/T₁T as a function
of the normalized temperature T/T_(c)(H), showing a more pronounced peak
feature around T_(c)(H). It is known that the temperature variation of
1/T₁ in the SC state is related to the SC gap structure. Evidently, the
1/T₁ data can be fitted well to a single exponential expression from
0.82T_(c)(H) to 0.45T_(c)(H), yielding the magnitude of the SC gap
Δ/k_(B) = 10.3 K. This value gives the ratio of 2Δ/k_(B)T_(c)(H) = 3.55
which is similar to the value of 3.67 obtained from the analysis of the
electronic heat capacity in Re_(0.82)Nb_(0.18).[16] In addition, this
result is also comparable to those in other fully gapped
noncentrosymmetric superconductors such as 3.52 for Re₃W and 3.59 for
Mg₁₀Ir₁₉B₁₆.[24, 10]

As the SC gap possesses line nodes, the T-dependent 1/T₁ is expected to
obey T³ behavior below T_(c)(H) and exhibits no Hebel-Slichter peak at
around T_(c)(H). However, our 1/T₁ reveals a distinct coherence peak
near T_(c)(H) followed by an exponential decay in Re₂₄Nb₅. Moreover, the
revealed 2Δ/k_(B)T_(c)(H) = 3.55 is almost identical with the BCS value
of 3.5, suggesting that Re₂₄Nb₅ is a weakly coupled s-wave
superconductor. Hence, the NMR observation tends to indicate that the
effect of the ASOC is quite weak in the current case of Re₂₄Nb₅. This
result is very likely due to a small band splitting lifted by ASOC as
compared to the relatively high transition temperature T_(c) ≃ 8.7 K for
Re₂₄Nb₅. On the other hand, Mineev and Samokhin have argued that the
effects of nonmagnetic impurities on noncentrosymmetric superconductors
may lead to an inevitable consequence of the band splitting even though
the intrinsic ASOC is stronger than SC energy scales.[25] If such an
extrinsic effect appears in our sample, it might mask the underlying SC
gap anisotropy in the present Re₂₄Nb₅. In this respect, a further
investigation of a single crystal Re₂₄Nb₅ is highly desirable for
solving this puzzle.

## III Conclusions

The SC characteristics of the noncentrosymmetric superconductor Re₂₄Nb₅
have been investigated through ⁹³Nb NMR measurements. The important
findings are that the spin-lattice relaxation rate of Re₂₄Nb₅ exhibits a
coherence peak just below T_(c)(H) and its temperature dependence can be
described by means of the s-wave BCS model. We also commented that the
invisible mixture of the spin-singlet and spin-triplet states in the SC
phase of this compound could be attributed to its relatively high
transition temperature. However, the possible suppression of the ASOC by
impurities and/or disorder should not be ruled out as using a
polycrystalline Re₂₄Nb₅.

###### Acknowledgements.

Acknowledgment is made to the National Science Council of Taiwan, for
supporting this research under Grant No. NSC-98-2112-M-006-011-MY3
(C.S.L.).

## References

* [1] V. M. Edelstein, Phys. Rev. Lett. **75**, 2004 (1995). * [2] L. P.
Gor’kov and E. I. Rashba, Phys. Rev. Lett. **87**, 037004 (2001). * [3]
P. A. Frigeri, D. F. Agterberg, A. Koga, and M. Sigrist, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **92**, 097001 (2004). * [4] K. V. Samokhin, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**94**, 027004 (2005). * [5] E. Bauer, G. Hilscher, H. Michor, Ch. Paul,
E. W. Scheidt, A. Gribanov, Yu. Seropegin, H. Noel, M. Sigrist, and P.
Rogl, Phys. Rev. Lett. **92**, 027003 (2004). * [6] T. Klimczuk, Q. Xu,
E. Morosan, J. D. Thompson, H. W. Zandbergen, and R. J. Cava, Phys. Rev.
B **74**, 220502(R) (2006).

Figure 5: (Color online) Temperature variation of the ⁹³Nb NMR
spin-lattice relaxation rate for Re₂₄Nb₅. The solid straight line
represents the Korringa behavior above T_(c)(H). The solid curve is a
fit to a single exponential expression below T_(c)(H), yielding a gap of
10.3 K. The T³ dependence was plotted for comparison. The inset shows
the variation of 1/T₁T as a function of the normalized temperature
T/T_(c)(H).

* [7] K. Tahara, Z. Li, H. X. Yang, J. L. Luo, S. Kawasaki, and Guo-qing
Zheng, Phys. Rev. B **80**, 060503(R) (2009). * [8] M. Nishiyama, Y.
Inada, and Guo-qing Zheng, Phys. Rev. Lett. **98**, 047002 (2007). * [9]
H. Takeya, M. ElMassalami, S. Kasahara, and K. Hirata, Phys. Rev. B
**76**, 104506 (2007). * [10] Y. L. Zuev, V. A. Kuznetsova, R. Prozorov,
M. D. Vannette, M. V. Lobanov, D. K. Christen, and J. R. Thompson, Phys.
Rev. B **76**, 132508 (2007). * [11] E. Bauer, G. Rogl, Xing-Qiu Chen,
R. T. Khan, H. Michor, G. Hilscher, E. Royanian, K. Kumagai, D. Z. Li,
Y. Y. Li, R. Podlucky, and P. Rogl, Phys. Rev. B **82**, 064511
(2010). * [12] A. B. Karki, Y. M. Xiong, I. Vekhter, D. Browne, P. W.
Adams, D. P. Young, K. R. Thomas, J. Y. Chan, H. Kim, and R. Prozorov,
Phys. Rev. B **82**, 064512 (2010). * [13] G. Eguchi, D. C. Peets, M.
Kriener, Y. Maeno, E. Nishibori, Y. Kumazawa, K. Banno, S. Maki, and H.
Sawa, Phys. Rev. B **83**, 024512 (2011). * [14] R. Steadman and P. M.
Nuttall, Acta Crystallogr. **17**, 62 (1964). * [15] E. M. Savitskii, V.
V. Baron, Yu. V. Efimov, M. I. Bychkova, and L. F. Myzenkova,
_Superconducting Materials_ (Plenum, New York, 1966). * [16] A. B.
Karki, Y. M. Xiong, N. Haldolaarachchige, S. Stadler, I. Vekhter, P. W.
Adams, D. P. Young, W. A. Phelan, and J. Y. Chan, Phys. Rev. B **83**,
144525 (2011). * [17] T. H. Su, C. S. Lue, and Y. K. Kuo, J. Appl. Phys.
**104**, 093705 (2008). * [18] C. S. Lue, T. H. Su, B. X. Xie, and C.
Cheng, Phys. Rev. B **74**, 094101 (2006). * [19] Y. Yafet and V.
Jaccarino, Phys. Rev. **113**, A1630 (1964). * [20] W. Low, J. Appl.
Phys. **39**, 1246 (1968). * [21]_Metallic Shifts in NMR_, edited by G.
C. Carter, L. H. Bennett, and D. J. Kahan (Pergamon, Oxford, 1977). *
[22] S. Wada, R. Aoki, and O. Fujita, J. Phys. F: Met. Phys. **14**,
1515 (1984). * [23] L. C. Hebel and C. P. Slichter, Phys. Rev. **113**,
1504 (1959); L. C. Hebel, _ibid._**116**, 79 (1959). * [24] T. Klimczuk,
F. Ronning, V. Sidorov, R. J. Cava, and J. D. Thompson, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**99**, 257004 (2007). * [25] V. P. Mineev and K. V. Samokhin, Phys.
Rev. B **75**, 184529 (2007).
