# Angular dependence of the upper critical field in CaAlSi single
crystal:

Deviation from the Ginzburg-Landau anisotropic mass model

Ajay Kumar Ghosh,* M. Tokunaga, and T. Tamegai

# Abstract

The anisotropic upper critical field in CaAlSi with an AlB2 structure
has been investigated by magnetic, transport, and specific heat
measurements. The variation of _H_c2 with _th_, the angle between the
_ab_ plane and the applied field, determined from the transport
measurements at various temperatures, show a cusplike behavior near _th_
= 0deg unlike the prediction of the Ginzburg-Landau anisotropic mass
model. Rather, the angular dependence is consistent with Tinkham’s
formula for thin film superconductors. We have found an increase in the
anisotropy parameter with temperature. The negligible in-plane
anisotropy of _H_c2 is consistent with the small mean free path in this
compound.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.68.054507 PACS number(s): 74.10.+v, 61.66.Fn,
74.70.Dd, 74.25.Ha

The discovery of MgB2 with an AlB2 structure has created tremendous
interest in investigating the various physical properties of compounds
having similar structures.1 Silicides with AlB2-structures have been
reported recently.2 Studies of superconducting properties in such
systems will be helpful to explain the mechanism of superconductivity in
this class of hexagonal materials. Also, the study of these
superconductors is related to the technological application of them in
devices. Among the various silicides with an AlB2-type structure is a
high pressure superconducting phase of CaSi2 with a _T_c of 14 K.3
Recently, ternary silicides like Sr(Ga0.3YSi0.63)2 and CaAlSi were
reported to be superconducting.24 The common feature of these two
silicides is the existence of hexagonal honeycomb layers with randomly
distributed Si and Ga or Al and intercalated layers of Sr or Ca. On the
basis of a band structure calculation of CaSi2 the electronic structure
near the Fermi level was attributed to the mixed state of Sr 4d states
and p states of Si and Ga in Sr(Ga0.3YSi0.63)2.4 According to the band
structure calculations, the hybridized states of Ca 3d and p states of
Al and Si control the superconductivity in CaAlSi.5 The physical
properties are affected both by atoms in (Al, Si) sites as well as Ca
sites of the silicide compounds. Some other binary and pseudobinary
intermetallic compounds with similar structures are also reported to be
superconducting.6

In order to investigate the role of honeycomb layers with other
intercalated layers anisotropic normal as well as superconducting state
properties need to be studied intensively using single crystals. The
upper critical field characterizing the normal to superconducting state
transition is one such property. Investigating the angular dependence of
_H_c2 the roles of various layers and the interaction among them can be
explored. We have measured the anisotropic magnetization and transport
properties of single crystalline superconducting CaAlSi. The upper
critical field has been determined at various angles, _th_, from a
variation of the resistivity with magnetic field at several
temperatures. The variation of the anisotropy parameter with temperature
has also been investigated. Results are compared with the existing
theories expressing the angular variation of the upper critical field.

The ingots of CaAlSi are prepared by arc melting a 1:1:1 stoichiometric
mixture of Ca, Al, and Si in an Ar environment. The ingots are then used
to prepare the feeding and seed rods for the floating-zone method to
grow the single crystal. Single crystals are grown with a growth rate of
2 mm/h in an Ar environment with a flow rate of 1 l/min. The rods are
rotated in the opposite directions at an angular speed of 20 rpm. Single
crystals with shiny surfaces are extracted for the measurements. The
typical dimensions of the crystals are 3.0x1.0x1.0 mm3. The
magnetization measurements as a function of temperature are done with
applied field both parallel and perpendicular to the c axis using a
superconducting quantum interference device magnetometer (MPMS-XL,
Quantum Design). The transport measurements are done using a four-probe
method. We have measured the resistivities along the c axis and _ab_
plane as a function of temperature by putting different contacts for the
two cases so that the current flows uniformly. The in-plane resistivity
is measured as a function of the magnetic field at various temperatures.
A vector magnet system with horizontal and vertical components and a
two-axis sample rotator is used to apply the magnetic field in any
direction. We have also measured the resistivity as a function of the
magnetic field for various in-plane angles. The specific heat as a
function of the temperature has been measured at several fields for
H∣_ab_ by the relaxation method.

The critical temperature of single crystalline CaAlSi is determined from
field-cooled and zero field-cooled magnetizations at 5 Oe, shown in the
inset of Fig. 1(a). The onset critical temperature is 6.0 K, with a
transition width of 0.2 K, as shown in the inset of Fig. 1(a). The
resistivity along the c axis and _ab_ plane is shown in the inset of
Fig. 1(b). The ratio of _pc_/_p_ab is about 3.1 at room temperature. The
field-cooled magnetization (_M_) at various magnetic fields for H∣_c_
and H∣_ab_ is shown in Fig. 1. The upper critical fields H_(c2)^(c) and
H_(c2)^(ab) are determined from the onset of diamagnetism as shown in
Fig. 1(a). The variations of H_(c2)^(c) and H_(c2)^(ab) are plotted in
Fig. 2. The anisotropic nature of CaAlSi sample is revealed clearly. On
close inspection it is revealed that though the variation of H_(c2)^(c)
is linear below 5.5 K that of H_(c2)^(ab) is not, particularly below 4.5
K. We have also shown _H_c2 in Fig. 2 obtained from the specific heat
measurements (see the inset of Fig. 2) at several magnetic fields for
H||ab, which clearly supports the bulk nature of superconductivity in
CaAlSi for this configuration.

For dirty isotropic s-wave superconductors, the extrapolated upper
critical field is given by H_(c2)(0) = − 0.69T_(c)(∂H_(c2)/∂T). The
slopes of H_(c2)^(ab)(T) and H_(c2)^(c)(T) are − 4.05 and −2.08 kOe/K,
respectively. The related values are H_(c2)^(ab)(0) ∼ 16.8 kOe and
H_(c2)^(c)(0) ∼ 8.6 kOe which are equivalent to an anisotropy of 1.95.
We have extracted the coherence lengths ξ_(c)(0) and ξ_(ab)(0) from the
relations ξ_(ab)(0) = [Φ₀/2πH_(c2)^(c)(0)]^(1/2) and ξ_(c)(0) =
Φ₀/2πH_(c2)^(ab)(0)ξ_(ab)(0), where Φ₀ is the flux quantum. From the
above critical field values, the coherence lengths are calculated as
ξ_(ab)(0) = 196 A and ξ_(c)(0) = 100 A . The mean free around θ = 0^(∘).
In the case of MgB₂, it is found that the GL model can well describe the
angular variation of H_(c2) measured by the torque magnetometry.[9]

Starting from the GL equation and based on the flux quantization,
Tinkham calculated the variation of H_(c2)(θ) for a thin film of
thickness d satisfying the condition d ≪ ξ. The formulation shows that
the angular dependence can be expressed as[10]

$$\left|\frac{H_{c2}(\theta)\sin\theta}{H_{c2}^{\perp}}\right|+\left(\frac{H_{c2 }(\theta)\cos\theta}{H_{c2}^{\parallel}}\right)^{2}=1.$$
(2)

In this case, H_(c2)^(⊥) and H_(c2)^(∥) are the critical fields for
θ = 90^(∘) and θ = 0^(∘), respectively. We have found that Eq has been
observed in single crystal of (LaSe)_(1.14)(NbSe₂) [17]. γ at 0.1 K is
about 40, which increases to 130 at 1 K and decreases to 50 with a
further increase in temperature to 1.2 K [17]. Since the detailed
structure of the Fermi surface and the order parameter of CaAlSi are not
available, we try to compare the present results in terms of the model
applicable for MgB₂, the structural analog of CaAlSi. Assuming the
anisotropic nature of the order parameter, Δ_(c) > Δ_(ab), the increase
in γ with temperature is predicted for MgB₂[18].

We have also measured the in-plane variation of H_(c2) as a function of
the in-plane angle, ϕ, using the resistivity as a function of the
magnetic field at 4.2 K. The variation of H_(c2)(ϕ) is shown in Fig.
6(b). The angle ϕ = 0^(∘) represents the direction of the current. The
observed twofold symmetry in H_(c2)(ϕ) of CaAlSi in Fig. 6(b) is
attributed to the effect of Lorentz force. The in-plane anisotropy
H_(c2)^(max)(ϕ)/H_(c2)^(min)(ϕ) is about 1.02 at 4.2 K (t = 0.7),
including the Lorentz force effect. The sixfold symmetry component
consistent with the crystal symmetry is much smaller than that. It would
be interesting to mention that the ratio of
H_(c2)^(max)(ϕ)/H_(c2)^(min)(ϕ) is 1.95 in Cs_(0.2)WO₃ with
H_(c2)^(max)(ϕ) and H_(c2)^(min)(ϕ) at ϕ = 60^(∘) and ϕ = 90^(∘),
respectively. In Cs_(0.1)WO_(2.9)F_(0.1),
H_(c2)^(max)(ϕ)/H_(c2)^(min)(ϕ) is 1.33 at t = 0.7. In both cases,
H_(c2)(ϕ) exhibits a clear sixfold symmetry at t = 0.8 which is
attributed to the hexagonal crystal symmetry of the superconductors [14,
19]. In borocarbide superconductor, the ratio, H_(c2)⁽¹⁰⁰⁾/H_(c2)⁽¹¹⁰⁾
is found to be 1.03 with a fourfold symmetry [20]. In the present case
we have no clear signature of the periodic nature of the in-plane
H_(c2)(ϕ), which is consistent with the fact that CaAlSi belongs to
dirty superconductors where local electrodynamics should apply.

In conclusion, we present measurements of the magnetization with
temperature and resistive properties with the magnetic field applied at
various angles with respect to the hexagonal plane of single crystalline
CaAlSi. The upper critical fields show an anisotropic behavior. The
angular variation of the upper critical field obtained from the
transport measurements shows a cusplike behavior near θ = 0^(∘)
consistent with Tinkham’s model for thin films. H_(c2) obtained from
specific heat data clearly reveals the absence of surface
superconductivity in CaAlSi. The anisotropy parameter in CaAlSi obtained
from ρ(H) and M(T) increases with temperature. The ratio of the
resistivities along the c axis and ab plane is about 3.1 at ambient
temperature. No intrinsic in-plane anisotropy has been observed.

## Acknowledgments

A.K.G. would like to acknowledge Japan Society for the Promotion of
Sciences (JSPS) for financial support. This work was supported by a
Grant-in-Aid for Scientific Research from the Ministry of Education,
Culture, Sports, Science, and Technology.

## References

* [1] J. Nagamatsu, N. Nakagawa, T. Muranaka, Y. Zenitani, and J.
Akimitsu, Nature (London) **410**, 63 (2001). * [2] M. Imai, E. Abe, J.
Ye, K. Nishida, T. Kimura, K. Honma, H. Abe, and H. Kitazawa, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **87**, 077003 (2001). * [3] S. Sanfilippo, H. Elsinger, M. N.
Regueiro, O. Laborde, S. LeFloch, M. Affronte, G. L. Olese, and A.
Palenzona, Phys. Rev. B **61**, R3800 (2000). * [4] M. Imai, K. Nishida,
T. Kimura, and H. Abe, Appl. Phys. Lett. **80**, 1019 (2002). * [5] I.
R. Shein, V. V. Ivanovskaya, N. I. Medvedeva and A. L. Ivanovskii,
Pis’ma Zh. Eksp. Teor. Fiz. **76**, 223 (2002) [JETP Lett. **76**, 189
(2002)]. * [6] R. L. Meng, B. Lorenz, Y. S. Wang, J. Cmaidalka, Y. Y.
Sun, Y. Y. Xue, J. K. Meen, and C. W. Chu, Physica C **382**, 113
(2002); B. Lorenz, J. Lenij, J. Cmaidalka, R. L. Meng, Y. Y. Sun, Y. Y.
Xue, and C. W. Chu, _ibid._**383**, 191 (2002). * [7] A. K. Pradhan, Z.
X. Shi, M. Tokunaga, T. Tamegai, Y. Takano, K. Togano, H. Kito, and H.
Ihara, Phys. Rev. B **64**, 212509 (2001). * [8] G. Blatter, M. V.
Feigel’man, V. B. Geshkenbein, A. I. Larkin, and V. M. Vinokur, Rev.
Mod. Phys. **66**, 1325 (1994). * [9] M. Angst, R. Puzniak, A.
Wisniewski, J. Jun, S. M. Kazakov, J. Karpinski, J. Roos, and H. Keller,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **88**, 167004 (2002). * [10] M. Tinkham, Phys. Rev.
**129**, 2413 (1963). * [11] A. Sidorenko, C. Surgers, T. Trappmann, and
H. v. Lohneysen, Phys. Rev. B **53**, 11 751 (1996). * [12] S. T.
Ruggiero, T. W. Barbee Jr., and M. R. Beasley, Phys. Rev. B **26**, 4894
(1982). * [13] C. S. L. Chun, G. G. Zheng, J. L. Vicent, and I. K.
Schuller, Phys. Rev. B **29**, 4915 (1984). * [14] M. R. Skokan, W. G.
Moulton, and R. C. Morris, Phys. Rev. B **20**, 3670 (1979). * [15] Y.
Eltsev, S. Lee, K. Nakao, N. Chikumoto, S. Tajima, N. Koshibazuka, and
M. Murakami, Physica C **378-381**, 61 (2002); Z. X. Shi _et al._
(unpublished).

Figure 6: (a) Anisotropy parameter as a function of the reduced
temperature (t) extracted from transport and magnetization measurements.
(b) In-plane upper critical fields at various in-plane angles ϕ at 4.2
K. H_(c2) has been determined from the criterion of
$\rho\!=\!0.5\rho_{\rm a}$ , where $\rho_{\rm a}$ is the normal state
resistivity. The line is a fit to the data points,
H_(c2)(ϕ) = a cos (2ϕ) + b.

* (16) M. Zehetmayer, M. Eisterer, J. Jun, S. M. Kazakov, J. Karpinski,
A. Wisniewski, and H. W. Weber, Phys. Rev. B **66**, 052505 (2002). *
(17) P. Samuely, P. Szabo, J. Kacmarcik, A. G. M. Jansen, A. Lafond, A.
Meerschaut, and A. Briggs, Physica C **369**, 61 (2002). * (18) S. Haas
and K. Maki, Phys. Rev. B **65**, 020502(R) (2001). * (19) M. R. Skokan,
R. C. Morris, and W. G. Moulton, Phys. Rev. B **13**, 1077 (1976). *
(20) V. Metlushko, U. Welp, A. Koshelev, I. Aranson, G. W. Crabtree, and
P. C. Canfield, Phys. Rev. Lett. **79**, 1738 (1997).
