# Superconductivity in uranium compounds with Cu3Au structure

H. R. Ott

F. Hulliger

H. Rudigier

Laboratorium fur Festkorperphysik, Eidgenossische Technische Hochschule,
Honggerberg, 8093 Zurich, Switzerland

Z. Fisk

Los Alamos National Laboratory, Los Alamos, New Mexico 87545

###### Abstract

Superconductivity has been observed in uranium compounds with partly
disordered Cu3Au-type crystal structure and interatomic U-U distances of
more than 4 A. Low-temperature specific-heat experiments reveal no
anomalous enhancement of the electronic specific heat thus
distinguishing the present materials from the unconventional
superconductors UBe₁₃ and UPt₃.

Until very recently, only a few uranium compounds were known to be
superconducting at low temperatures, namely, U₆_X_ compounds with X =
Mn, Fe, Co, and Ni,[1, 2] UCo,[1] and U₂PtC₂.[3] For elemental uranium,
superconductivity is claimed for its γ (Ref. [3]) and its α
modification, but the latter under external pressure only.[4] In these
materials superconductivity was ascribed to the formation of
f-electron-derived energy bands due to direct 5f-wave-function overlap
between adjacent nearest-neighbor U atoms which are less than about 3.6
A apart.[5]

Newer work on uranium intermetallics has shown that superconductivity is
also possible when the U atoms are farther apart than 4 A. So far, the
most extreme example in this respect is UBe₁₃,[6] where the
nearest-neighbor U−U distance is 5.13 A. In UPt₃ (Ref. [7]) this
distance is 4.13 A, considerably larger than that found in the
substances mentioned above. In these latter two cases, however,
superconductivity develops out of a rather anomalous normal state and
involves electrons with unusually heavy effective masses, giving rise to
enormous electronic specific heats at low temperatures. For both UBe₁₃
(Refs. [8] and [9]) and UPt₃ (Ref. [9]) it has been reasoned that
superconductivity is not primarily due to conventional electron-phonon
interaction, and therefore the superconducting state may be
characterized by 1 ≠0 paired electrons as opposed to the conventional 1
= 0 BCS superconductors, where 1 is the electron-pair angular-momentum
quantum number.

With these observations in mind, it seemed of interest to check whether
the mentioned interatomic U−U distance is a crucial parameter in
determining the low-temperature behavior of metallic uranium compounds
and we also simply aimed at finding additional superconducting U
compounds. In the course of this work we discovered superconductivity in
U compounds crystallizing in the cubic Cu3Au structure.
Superconductivity was probed by measuring the magnetic susceptibility
between 0.02 and 4 K, using a low-frequency ac mutual-inductance system
with a primary-field amplitude of less than 0.1 Oe. For some of the
compounds the magnetic susceptibility was also measured between 1.5 and
300 K, using a sample-moving magnetometer. In order to obtain values for
the electronic specific-heat parameter γ, we also measured the
temperature dependence of the specific heat between 1.5 and 12 K for two
typical compounds. For further characterization we also measured the
electrical resistivity ρ of three compounds between 1.5 and 300 K.

The samples were synthesized by arc melting under purified argon. The
purity of the starting elements Al, Ga, Si, and Ge were 99.99

Based on the lattice constants a0 of the Cu3Au end members U_X_3(_X_ =
Al, Ga, Si, and Ge) and assuming the validity of Vegard’s rule, we would
expect the observed lattice constants at the following compositions
(with the 1a positions (0,0,0) fully occupied by U atoms only, and the X
atoms statistically distributed on the 3c positions
($\frac{1}{2},\frac{1}{2},0,\frac{1}{2},0,\frac{1}{2},0,\frac{1}{2},\frac{1}{2}$):
UAl_(1.68)Si_(1.32) (4,145 A), UAl_(1.47)Si_(1.53) (4.163 A),
UAl_(2.5)Ge_(0.5) (4.219 A), and UGa_(2.1)Ge_(0.9) (4.218 A). In the
case of the U-Al-Si compound one might accept this interpretation, but
not for the U-Al-Ge and U-Ga-Ge phases. Since according to the x-ray
photographs these latter phases only contained Ge as a second phase we
measured their density 8 with a pycnometer. For UAl₂Ge₂ we obtained 8 =
7.73(6) g/cm³. Assuming the sample to consist of a mixed Cu₃Au-type
phase and free germanium,
(U_(x)Al_(1 − x))Al_(3x − 1)Ge_(4 − 3x) + (5x − 4)Ge, the above
experimental value for the density suggests a composition close to
(U_(0.82)Al_(0.18))Al_(1.46)Ge_(1.54) + 0.1 Ge. Unfortunately, the
quality of the Guinier photograph was not sufficient to allow a clear
choice based on the intensity of the diffraction lines. The pycometric
density for the U-Ga-Ge sample came out as 9.13(6) g/cm³. For a
Cu₃Au-type cell with one-quarter of the Au sites empty,
(U_(0.75)D_(0.25))Ga_(1.5)Ge_(0.5), the calculated density would be δ =
8.706 g/cm³, which is much too low, while for a perovskite-type
distribution UGa(Ge₂Ga) the calculated value δ = 11.61 g/cm³ would be
much too high. The observed density corresponds to a sample composition
(U_(0.87)Ga_(0.13))Ga_(1.6)Ge_(1.4)+ (0.35)Ge. However, we do not depend
heavily on the correct composition of our Cu₃Au-type phases; this view
is even more valid since we cannot completely exclude a small fractional
occupation of the 1b position ($\frac{1}{2},\frac{1}{2},\frac{1}{2}$+).
Whatever the exact stoichiometry may be, the U−U distances are clearly
greater than 4 A which usually favors localized behavior of the uranium
5f electrons. Characterization of the binary Cu₃Au compounds was, of
course, much less problematic than for the termaries.

From measurements of the ac magnetic susceptibility, UAl₂Si₂, UAl₂Ge₂,
UGa₂Ge₂, and URu₃ were found to be superconductors around and below 1 K.
The experimental values for the superconducting transition temperature
T_(e) are listed in Table 1. We also investigated UGa₃, USi₃,, and
URu₂Rh which are, however, not superconducting above 0.02 K. The special
case of UGa₃ will be further discussed below. The true composition of
URu₂Rh may slightly deviate from the given stoichiometry (weight of the
starting elements, 2.535 g; button after arc melting, 2.515 g; no
chemical analysis). On the other hand, URu₂Rh may be a further example
of an unexpected lattice-constant variation in a series of uranium
alloys, certainly correlated with the electronic structure. It may also
be noteworthy that URu₃ and URu₂Rh are both extremely hard, whereas the
other compounds break rather easily.

In Fig. 1 we show the temperature dependence of the magnetic
susceptibilities of URu₃ and UAl₂Si₂ between 4 and 280 K. Apart from
these compounds which may be regarded as typical representatives of our
binary and ternary Cu₃Au-type compounds, we also investigated and show
the results of UGa₃ and USi₃. For all compounds we find an almost
temperature-independent χ in this temperature range, indicating the
absence of well-defined magnetic moments on the U ions in these
materials, contrary to what one might expect from the lattice constant
values. A somewhat unusual temperature dependence of χ for UGa₃, which
has previously also been observed by Buschow and van Daal[11] with about
5

If the temperature-independent χ’s are interpreted as Pauli-type
electronic magnetic susceptibilities, their values are rather large,
however. It was therefore of interest to check whether the electronic
specific heat might be equally enhanced at low temperatures, and we show
the temperature dependence of the specific heats again of URu₃ and of
UAl₂Si₂ between 1.5 and 12 K in Fig. 2. The c_(p)/T versus T² plot
indicates that only at the lowest temperatures c_(p)(T) may
satisfactorily be represented by

c_(p) = γT + βT³ ,
(1)

where γ is the electronic specific-heat parameter and β

Figure 1: Temperature dependence of the magnetic susceptibility of UGa₃,
UAl₂Si₂, URu₃, and USi₃ between 4 and 300 K.

determines the lowest-order contribution to the lattice. Obviously this
T3 term is almost identical for both compounds (see Table 1). At higher
temperatures we observe deviations from this simple behavior which are
very similar to those recently reported for U₆Fe,[13] but have also been
observed in Chevrel phases.[14] In Ref. 14 this temperature dependence
of _c__p_/_T_ was successfully reproduced with calculations, taking into
account details of the electron-lattice interactions. We note that this
temperature dependence of c_(p) is characteristically different from
that reported earlier for binary U compounds with Cu₃Au structure.[15]
The resulting g values (see Table 1) are obviously much smaller than
what is obtained for UBe₁₃ or UPt₃ (although in the latter case, the U−U
distance is similar to our values), but of the same order of magnitude
as those found in cubic NaCl-type U mononucleotides and
monochalcogenides[16] which also have similar nearest U−U distances but
all order magnetically above 50 K. They are also comparable to the g
value of U₆Fe (Ref. 13) if that is renormalized to one U atom per mole.
Finally it is quite interesting to note that the g value for UAl₂Si₂ is
half the sum of those of USi₃ (Ref. 17) and UAl₃ (Ref. 15).

A considerable difference is also observed in the general temperature
dependence of the electrical resistivity between USi₃ and UAl₂Si₂. We
show the results of our _r_(_T_) measurements between 1.5 and 300 K for
both these compounds in Figs. 3 and 4, respectively. As in ordinary
metals, _r_(_T_) of USi₃ decreases steadily on cooling and a residual
resistivity ratio r300/_r_4.2 of about 100 is observed, much higher than
what may be estimated from the data given in Ref. 11. Below 50 K, the
observed temperature dependence of r is rather unusual, as may be seen
from the expanded plot contained in Fig. 3. The data do not

Figure 4: Temperature dependence of the electrical resistivity of
UAl₂Si₂ between 1.6 and 300 K.

Figure 3: Temperature dependence of the electrical resistivity of
single-crystalline USi₃ between 1.6 and 300 K. _r_(300 K) is of the
order of 20 _μ_Ω cm.

yield a T² dependence of ρ in this temperature range as was reported in
Ref. [11]. These differences may be due to the fact that our sample was
a flux-grown single crystal.

Turning to UAl₂Si₂, the absolute value of ρ is already higher at room
temperature, as may be guessed from ρ(T) of UAl₃.[11] As is expected for
a disordered compound, ρ is not very much reduced upon cooling. In this
case, the low-temperature resistivity follows a T³ law rather than a T²
law below 40 K, again characteristically different from the behavior of
the binary compounds reported in Ref. [11].

Again in contrast to previously published data[11] is the T dependence
we observe for ρ of UGa₃ below room temperature, measured on a
single-crystal specimen. Starting from a room-temperature resistivity of
the order of 100 μΩ cm, ρ(T) decreases very slowly but with increasing
positive ∂ρ/∂T upon cooling. At 67 K, ρ starts increasing again with
decreasing temperature, passes through a maximum around 62 K, and
finally reaches a still rather large residual resistivity at
liquid-helium temperatures. The anomaly of the electrical resistivity
below 67 K clearly indicates a phase transition which is, as established
by neutron-diffraction experiments[18, 19] of antiferromagnetic nature.
The observation of this anomaly hence corroborates the claim of magnetic
ordering in UGa₃ from previous neutron studies,[18, 19] although the
temperature dependence of χ is not indicative of that at all. Further
studies with regard to details of the magnetically ordered state of UGa₃
might be very instructive.

In conclusion, we have found superconductivity in U compounds with Cu₃Au
structure and nearest U−U distances of more than 4 A. The normal-state
properties resemble those of "enhanced" d transition metals, indicating
that the f electrons in some way take part in the formation of itinerant
electron states but do not show the anomalous behavior at low
temperatures as, for example, in UBe₁₃ and UPt₃. In this context it is
interesting to note that the ratios of the experimental values of χ and
γ are much larger for our superconducting substances than those found
for UBe₁₃ and UPt₃.

We find it remarkable that although the binary compounds UAl₃, USi₃, and
UGe₃ are not superconducting, mixtures resulting in ternary compounds
with disordered Cu₃Au structure are superconductors with critical
temperatures close to or even above 1 K. Even more surprising is the
fact that by starting from magnetically ordering UGa₃, a superconductor
is obtained by replacing Ga with Ge, although, as mentioned above, the
other binary end member is again not superconducting. Finally, our work
implies that the atomic separation alone is not a reliable parameter for
predicting the low-temperature behavior of U intermetallics.

Work performed in Switzerland was supported in part by the
Schweizerische Nationalfonds zur Forderung der wissenschaftlichen
Forschung. At Los Alamos work was done under the auspices of the U.S.
Department of Energy. One of us (H.R.O.) would like to thank the Center
of Materials Sciences at Los Alamos, where this work was completed, for
financial support and his collaborators for their kind hospitality
during the visit.

## References

* [1] B. S. Chandrasekhar and J. K. Hulm, J. Phys. Chem. Solids **7**,
259 (1958). * [2] H. H. Hill and B. T. Matthias, Phys. Rev. **168**, 464
(1968). * [3] B. T. Matthias, J. Phys. Colloq. C1-607 (1971). * [4] S.
D. Bader, N. E. Phillips, and E. S. Fisher, Phys. Rev. B **12**, 4929
(1975). * [5] H. H. Hill, _Plutonium 1970 and Other Actinides_, edited
by W. N. Miner (American Institute of Metallurgical Engineers, New York,
1970), p. 2. * [6] H. R. Ott, H. Rudigier, Z. Fisk, and J. L. Smith,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **50**, 1595 (1983). * [7] G. R. Stewart, Z. Fisk, J.
O. Willis, and J. L. Smith, Phys. Rev. Lett. **52**, 679 (1984). * [8]
H. R. Ott, H. Rudigier, T. M. Rice, K. Ueda, Z. Fisk, and J. L. Smith,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **52**, 1915 (1984). * [9] C. M. Varma, Bull. Am. Phys.
Soc. **29**, 404 (1984); D. J. Bishop, C. M. Varma, B. Batlogg, E.
Bucher, Z. Fisk, and J. L. Smith, Phys. Rev. Lett. **53**, 1009 (1984);
D. E. MacLaughlin, C. Tien, W. G. Clark, K. Glover, M. D. Lan, Z. Fisk,
J. L. Smith, and H. R. Ott, _ibid._**53**, 1833 (1984). * [10] A.
Zygmunt, in _Proceedings of the 2nd International Conference on
Electrical Structure of Actinides Wroclaw, 1976_, edited by J. Mulak, W.
Suski, and R. Trod (Polish Academy of Sciences, Wroclaw, 1976), p.
335. * [11] K. H. J. Buschow and H. J. van Daal, in _Magnetism and
Magnetic Materials–1971 (Chicago)_, proceedings of the 17th Annual
Conference on Magnetism and Magnetic Materials, edited by D. C. Graham
and J. J. Rhyne (AIP, New York, 1972), p. 1465. * [12] G. Busch and O.
Vogt, Helv. Phys. Acta **33**, 889 (1960). * [13] L. E. DeLong, J. G.
Huber, K. N. Yang, and M. B. Maple, Phys. Rev. Lett. **51**, 312 (1983).

Figure 5: Temperature dependence of the electrical resistivity of
single-crystalline UGa₃ between 1.6 and 300 K.

* [14] B. Lachal, A. Junod, and J. Muller, J. Low Temp. Phys. **55**,
195 (1984). * [15] M. H. van Maaren, H. J. van Daal, and K. H. J.
Buschow, Solid State Commun. **14**, 145 (1979). * [16] H. Rudigier, H.
R. Ott, and O. Vogt, _Proceedings of the International Conference on
Rare Earth and Actinide Intermetallics, St. Polten, 1984_ [Physica B (to
be published)]. * [17] M. B. Brodsky, Rep. Prog. Phys. **41**, 1547
(1978). * [18] A.. Murasik, J. Leciejewicz, S. Ligenza, and A. Zygmunt,
Phys. Status Solidi A **23**, K147 (1974). * [19] A. C. Lawson, A.
Williams, J. L. Smith, P. A. Seeger, J. A. Goldstone, J. A. O’Rourke,
and Z. Fisk (unpublished).
