Bi2+_x_Sr2-_x_CuO_y_ (0.10 <= x <= 0.40) studied by photoemission and
inverse-photoemission spectroscopy

N. Sanada, M. Shimomura, Y. Suzuki, and Y. Fukuda

Research Institute of Electronics, Shizuoka University, Hamamatsu 432,
Japan

M. Nagoshi

Applied Technology Research Center, NKK Corporation, Kawasaki 210, Japan

M. Ogita

College of Engineering, Shizuoka University, Hamamatsu 432, Japan

Y. Syono and M. Tachiki

Institute for Materials Research, Tohoku University, Sendai 980, Japan

27 August 1993; revised manuscript received 8 November 1993

###### Abstract

Bi2+_x_Sr2-_x_CuO_y_ (0.10 <= x <= 0.40) polycrystalline samples have
been studied by x-ray diffraction, resistivity and Hall-coefficient
measurements, x-ray and ultraviolet photoemission spectroscopy, and
inverse-photoemission spectroscopy (IPES). The lattice constant of the c
axis decreases and that of the a (_b_) axis increases as a function of
x. The results of Hall-coefficient measurements indicate that hole
concentration is reduced as a function of x, which is consistent with
the results of oxygen-concentration measurements. We find no energy
shifts of the core levels, valence bands, and conduction bands for the
samples, which is completely different from the results for the
Bi2Sr2Ca1-_x_Y_x_Cu2O_y_ system. The results of IPES and resistivity
measurements show that the metal-semiconductor transition occurs at
about x = 0.35. The states created by hole doping move to the Fermi
level. The change in the electronic states is discussed.

## Introduction

It is well known that high-_T_c superconductivity is realized in the
region of the insulator-metal transition by doping carriers into
insulators, for example, by substitution of alkaline-earth metals for La
La LaCuO4 (La-2:1:4) (Ref. [1]) and by adding oxygen to YBa2Cu3O5.2 For
bismuth cuprate high-_T_c superconductors, holes are intrinsically doped
by excess oxygen.3 However, the metal-insulator transition occurs with
substitution of trivalent ions at Ca sites in Bi2Sr2CaCu2O9
(Bi-2:2:1:2).4

Changes in electronic structure caused by the metal-insulator transition
have been studied using electron spectroscopy to understand the doping
mechanism and electronic structures of strongly correlated compounds.5
It was found that most of the holes are doped into the O 2_px_,y
orbital6 and the states at the Fermi level increase in intensity as a
function of the holes doped.7 The chemical potential appears to be
pinned for La cuprate.8,9 For the electron-doped cuprate Nd2-_x_CeCuO4,
no binding-energy shifts of core levels and valence bands were found as
a function of Ce content.9,10 On the other hand, the binding energies of
core levels and valence band were shifted to the high-binding-energy
side as a function of Y content in Bi2Sr2Ca1-_x_Y_x_Cu2O9,11,12 leading
to the model of a simple doped semiconductor.

Bi2+_x_Sr2-_x_CuO (Bi-2:2:0:1) becomes a superconductor with _T_c = 10 K
at around x = 0.1,13 but the composition at which it becomes an
insulator is not clear. The _T_c is increased to about 30 K by the
substitution of rare-earth elements at Sr sites.14 This is a surprising
increase compared with the Bi-2:2:1:2 system.15 The Bi-2:2:0:1 sample
has the same CuO2 structure as La-2:1:4 and it has the simplest
structure in the Bi2Sr2Ca_n_-1Cu_n_O_6+2(_n_-1) family. Therefore, we
are interested in changes of the electronic states due to the
substitution of trivalent Bi at divalent Sr sites.

In this paper, the results of systematic studies on the structure,
resistivity, Hall coefficient, and oxygen concentration of Bi-2:2:0:1
samples is presented. The electronic states of the samples are also
studied using x-ray (XPS), ultra-violet (UPS), and inverse-photoemission
(IPES) spectroscopy.

## Experiment

The Bi2+_x_Sr2-_x_CuO_y_ polycrystalline samples (0.10 <= x <= 0.40)
were synthesized by solid-state reaction of appropriate amounts of
Bi2O3, SrCO3, and CuO powder (99.9

The structure and homogeneity of the samples were examined by x-ray
diffraction (XRD) and electron-probe microanalysis (EPMA), respectively.
The precise lattice parameters were determined by using silicon single
crystals as an internal standard. The resistivities and Hall
coefficients of the samples were measured by the standard methods
between 15 and 300 K, and at 300 K, respectively. The oxygen
concentration of some samples was determined by the iodine-titration
method.

The samples were cleaned _in situ_ by scraping in an ultrahigh-vacuum
chamber (1 x 10-10 Torr) with a diamond field just before
electron-spectroscopic measurements. XPS and UPS measurements were
carried out using Al K_(a) (Perkin-Elmer, model 5100) and He i (VG
Scientific) sources, respectively. Unoccupied electronic states were
examined by detecting 9.6-eV photons using a home-made IPES
apparatus.[16] The Fermi energies for XPS and IPES were calibrated using
Au 4f7/2 = 74.0 eV and the Fermi edge of Pt, respectively.

## RESULTS AND DISCUSSION

### Characterization of the samples

All peaks in the XRD patterns of the Bi2+_x_Sr2-_x_CuO_y samples (_x_ =
0.10 and 0.40) were ascribed to the tetragonal structure. Changes of the
lattice parameters along with the Hall coefficient are shown in Fig.
1(a) as a function of x. The c and a (= _b_) axes are systematically
decreased and increased, respectively, as a function of x. The
orthorhombic structure is not found, which is in agreement with previous
results.[13] The EPMA results (not shown here) indicated that the
substitution of bismuth at strontium sites occurs homogeneously in each
grain.

Changes in resistivity as a function of temperature are displayed in
Fig. 1(b). The magnitude of T_(c) cannot be determined from the figure
due to the limitation of the lowest temperature, but we can safely say
that the samples with x = 0.10 and 0.15 behave as a metal. This is
consistent with the result that the Bi2.1Sr1.9CuO_y_ sample has T_(c) =
10 K.[13] The resistivities at 300 K for x = 0.10-0.30 are not so much
different, but those for x = 0.35 and 0.40 are one order of magnitude
higher than the others, and these samples behave as a semiconductor at
low temperature.

The Hall coefficients increase as a function of x, which implies that
movable carriers are decreased by substitution. This is consistent with
the changes of resistivity and reduction of hole concentration
(discussed later) as a function of x.

### Core-level electronic states

XPS spectra of Bi 4f, Cu 2p3/2, and O 1s lines for x = 0.15 and 0.35
were measured. We found that the binding energies of Bi 4f7/2, Cu 2p3/2,
and O 1s are 158.1 933.4, and 528.6 eV, respectively, which are in
agreement with previous results.[12] They (including Sr 3_d_) were not
shifted by substitution. The full widths at half maximum (FWHM’s) of the
lines remained constant as x varied except for the O 1s line. The FWHM
of the O 1s line for x = 0.15 was wider by 0.3 eV than that for x =
0.35.

It has been reported that the core-level binding energies of the
constituent atoms in Bi2Sr2Ca1-_x_Y_x_Cu2O_y are shifted to the
higher-binding-energy side with increasing x. This was discussed in
terms of chemical-potential shifts,[12] which could be explained by a
simple doping mechanism in semiconductors. On the other hand, the shifts
were not observed for La-2:1:4 (Refs. 8 and 9) and Y-1:2:3 (Refs. 7 and
17) with increasing hole concentration, which cannot be explained by a
simple band calculation.

A narrowing of the O 1s line was also observed for Bi-2:2:1:2 samples
with substituted Y, and was attributed to the decrease in concentration
of the oxygen orbital with holes.[18] The FWHM of the O 1s line for the
Bi-2:2:0:1 system also becomes narrower due to decrease of hole
concentration with substitution. It should be emphasized here that the
analysis of the O 1s line in the Bi-2:2:1:2 superconductors is also
valid for the Bi-2:2:0:1 system.

### Valence- and conduction-band electronic states

Many studies on the nature of the electronic states near the Fermi level
(E_(F)) have been reported. It is well known[19] that the valence-band
spectra for Bi-2:2:1:2 and Bi-2:2:0:1 between E_(F) and about 7.5 eV
measured by He i UPS (_h_v = 21.2 eV) mainly reflect the O 2p orbital be

Figure 1: (a) Changes in lattice parameters and Hall coefficients as a
function of x in Bi2+_x_Sr2−_x_CuO_y_. (b) Changes in resistivity
(logarithm is base 10) as a function of temperature, where x = 0.40
(curve a), 0.35 (curve b), 0.30 (curve c), 0.25 (curve d), 0.20 (curve
e), 0.15 (curve f), and 0.10 (curve g).

cause of the photoionization cross section at the photon energy. The
experimental spectrum is in good agreement with the calculated
spectrum.[20] Near the Fermi level in Bi-2:2:1:2 the spectrum was
found[21] by measuring the polarization-dependent energy-dispersion
curve to have primarily O 2_p__x_ and O 2_p__y_ character; these
orbitals are hybridized with the Cu 3d orbital. The states near E_(F)
are reduced in intensity by increasing x in
Bi₂Sr₂Ca_(1 − x)Y_(x)Cu₂O_(y) and a band gap opens.[5, 22] Our UPS and
IPES results shown in Fig. 2 are in good agreement with those in
Y-substituted Bi-2:2:1:2, although the sites occupied by the trivalent
ions are different for the two samples. This implies that the electronic
states are created by hole doping into the O 2p orbital. No band shifts
for Bi-2:2:0:1 with substitution are observed in Fig. 2.

It has been reported that not only the core levels but also the valence
band are shifted with the substitution of Y at Ca sites in
Bi-2:2:1:2.[11, 12] These shifts were strongly dependent upon the hole
concentration controlled by the Y content. The binding-energy shift in
Bi-2:2:1:2 is compared with that in Bi-2:2:0:1 (this work) in Table 1,
as a function of hole concentration obtained by the iodine-titration
method. The result indicates that the changes in hole concentration for
both systems are similar but the binding-energy shift is completely
different: about +0.2 eV shift for Bi-2:2:1:2 and no shift for
Bi-2:2:0:1. This suggests that the Fermi level is pinned for variation
of hole concentration, as in La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄ (Refs. 8 and 9) and
YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − x),[7, 17] which implies that simple band theory cannot
describe the electronic structures of this strongly correlated system.
The disagreement of our result with that for Bi-2:2:1:2 might be due to
difference in the sites substituted, the structure of the Cu-O planes,
or the coupling between the CuO₂ and other layers.

IPES spectra are displayed as a function of x in Fig. 3. Peaks are found
at about 0.5, 4, and 9 (not shown here) eV above the Fermi level, which
is in close agreement with the O 1s spectrum obtained by
x-ray-absorption spectroscopy for Bi-2:2:1:2,[23] and the IPES result
for Bi-2:2:1:2.[24] The state near the Fermi level is generally
recognized to be the O 2p state.[25] The bands at about 3-4 eV were
ascribed to Bi ξ_p_,[24] and/or Cu 3d hybridized with the O 2p
orbital.[23] The higher-energy band at about 8 eV would be due to Sr 4d
-derived levels.[24]

We find that the intensity at the Fermi level is significantly reduced
at about x = 0.35. This result, along with the resistivity data,
suggests that the metal-semiconductor transition occurs at about x =
0.35. The figures show that the peak at about 0.5 eV (indicated by
arrows) is shifted to higher energy as x increases. On the other hand,
the thresholds of the main band (indicated by the interpolation) are not
shifted with x. This result suggests that the hole states are created at
the top of the gap for light doping of holes, and the states extend to
the Fermi level as hole concentration increases, leading to the result
that the system becomes metallic.

A calculation has shown that the Fermi level is at the bottom or the top
of the gap with _p_- or _n_-type doping, respectively,[25] which was
also suggested by the electron energy loss spectroscopy (EELS).[26]
However, this idea is

  ------ ------------------------------------ --------------------------------- ------------------------
    x                     d                              Holes/CuO₂              Fermi-level shift (eV)
                                               Bi_(2 + x)Sr_(2 − x)CuO_(6 + d)  
   0.15                  0.18                               0.21                           0
   0.25                  0.21                               0.16                           0
   0.35                  0.23                               0.11                           0
          Bi₂Sr₂Ca_(1 − x)Y_(x)Cu₂O_(8 + d)a                                    
   0.00                  0.23                               0.23                           0
   0.10                  0.23                               0.18                
   0.30                  0.30                               0.15                          0.18
  ------ ------------------------------------ --------------------------------- ------------------------

Table 1: Changes in excess oxygen (_d_), hole concentration, and
Fermi-level shift as functions of x for Bi_(2 + x)Sr_(2 − x)CuO_(6 + d)
and Bi₂Sr₂Ca_(1 − x)Y_(x)Cu₂O_(8 + d).

Figure 3: IPES conduction-band spectra between E_(F) = 0 and 6 eV, where
x = 0.10 (a), 0.15 (b), 0.30 (c), 0.35 (d), and 0.40 (e). The peaks near
the Fermi level are indicated by the arrows and the main band edges are
indicated by the interpolation.

Figure 2: He i UPS (_h_v= 21.2 eV) valence-band and IPES empty
conduction-band spectra for x = 0.10 and 0.40.

not in agreement with the results of valence-band photoemission.[9] The
binding energy of O 1s for Bi_(2 + x)Sr_(2 − x)CuO_(y) (p type) is the
same as that for Nd_(2 − x)Ce_(x)CuO₄ (n type),[10] which is not
consistent with the above idea.

It was observed by measuring polarized O 1s absorption spectra for
single-crystal Bi-2:2:1:2 and for insulating Y-substituted samples (with
Y concentration x = 0.6) that a shoulder (upper Hubbard band) with
in-plane symmetry occurs at 1 eV above the Fermi level for the
insulator; this state is reduced by hole doping, and new states are
created in the gap.[27] Our result does not indicate clear bands at 1 eV
above the Fermi level for x = 0.40, which is in agreement with the
previous IPES results for a Bi₂Sr₂Ca_(1 − x)Y_(x)Cu₂O_(y)
polycrystalline sample.[28] This would be due to the polycrystalline
sample.

In summary, we have found that the c and a ( = b) axes decrease and
increase continuously, respectively, as x increases in
Bi_(2 + x)Sr_(2 − x)CuO_(y), with a single phase of tetragonal
structure. This result, along with the increase in Hall coefficient,
indicates that substitution of trivalent Bi for divalent Sr occurs,
which is consistent with the result that the resistivity changes from
metallic to semiconducting with substitution. The binding energies of
core levels are not shifted as a function of x, in contrast to those in
Bi₂Sr₂Ca_(1 − x)Y_(x)Cu₂O_(y). The UPS spectra show that the Fermi edge
is strongly reduced in intensity for x = 0.40 and the valence band is
not shifted with x. The absence of energy shifts of the core levels and
valence bands suggests that the Fermi level of this system is pinned for
variation in x. The empty states (O 2p states) move to the Fermi level
and the main band is not shifted as x varies, which suggests that the
states are created at the top of the gap.

## References

* [1] For example, J. G. Bednorz and K. A. Muller, Z. Phys. B **64**,
189 (1986); S. Uchida, H. Takagi, H. Ishii, H. Elsaki, T. Yabe, S.
Tajima, and S. Tanaka, Jpn. J. Appl. Phys. **26**, L440 (1987). * [2]
For example, Z. Z. Wang, J. Clayhold, N. P. Ong, J. M. Tarascon, L. H.
Greene, W. R. MaKinnon, and G. W. Hull, Phys. Rev. B **36**, 7222
(1987). * [3] For example, R. G. Buckley, J. L. Tallon, I. W. M. Brown,
M. R. Presland, N. E. Flower, P. W. Giberd, M. Bowden, and N. B.
Milestone, Physica C **156**, 629 (1988). * [4] T. Tamegai, A. Watanabe,
K. Koga, I. Oguro, and Y. Iye, Jpn. J. Appl. Phys. **27**, L1074
(1988). * [5] For example, H. Matsuyama, T. Takahashi, H. K. Yoshida, T.
Kashiwakura, Y. Okabe, S. Sato, N. Kosugi, A. Yagishita, K. Tanaka, H.
Fujimoto, and H. Inokuchi, Physica C **160**, 567 (1989); Y. Fukuda, K.
Terashima, Y. Nakanishi, T. Suzuki, M. Nagoshi, Y. Synono, and M.
Tachiki, _ibid._**162**, 1315 (1989). * [6] For example, F. J. Himpsel,
G. W. Chandrashekhar, A. B. McLean, and M. W. Shafer, Phys. Rev. B
**38**, 11 946 (1988). * [7] For example, P. Kuiper, G. Knuizinga, J.
Ghijsen, M. Grioni, P. J. W. Weijs, F. M. F. de Groot, and G. A.
Sawatzky, Phys. Rev. B **38**, 6483 (1988). * [8] Z. X. Shen, J. W.
Allen, J. J. Yeh, J. S. Kang, W. Ellis, W. Spicer, I. Lindau, M. B.
Maple, Y. D. Dalichaouch, M. S. Torikachivili, J. Z. Sun, and T. H.
Geballe, Phys. Rev. B **36**, 8414 (1987). * [9] J. W. Allen, C. G.
Olson, M. B. Maple, J. S. Kang, L. Z. Liu, J. H. Park, R. O. Anderson,
W. P. Ellis, J. T. Markert, Y. Dalichaouch, and R. Liu, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**64**, 595 (1990). * [10] Y. Fukuda, T. Suzuki, M. Nagoshi, Y. Synono,
K. Oh-ishi, and M. Tachiki, Solid State Commun. **72**, 1183 (1989); T.
Suzuki, M. Nagoshi, Y. Fukuda, K. Oh-ishi, Y. Synono, and M. Tachiki,
Phys. Rev. B **42**, 4263 (1990). * [11] R. Itti, F. Munakata, K. Ikeda,
H. Yamauchi, N. Koshizuka, and S. Tanaka, Phys. Rev. B **43**, 6249
(1991). * [12] M. A. Van Veenendaal, R. Schlatmann, G. A. Sawatzky, and
W. A. Groen, Phys. Rev. B **47**, 446 (1993). * [13] C. Michel, M.
Hervieu, M. M. Borel, A. Grandin, F. Deslandes, J. Provost, and B.
Raveau, Z. Phys. B **68**, 421 (1987); Y. Ikeda, H. Ito, S. Shimomura,
Y. Oue, K. Inaba, Z. Hiroi, and M. Takano, Physica C **159**, 93
(1989). * [14] For example, T. Kijima, J. Tanaka, and Y. Bando, Jpn. J.
Appl. Phys. **27**, L1035 (1988); T. Den, A. Yamazaki, and J. Akimitsu,
_ibid._**27**, L1620 (1988). * [15] Y. Koike, Y. Yuwabuchi, S. Hosoya,
N. Kobayashi, and T. Fukase, Physica C **159**, 105 (1989). * [16] N.
Sanada, M. Shimomura, and Y. Fukuda, Rev. Sci. Instrum. **64**, 3480
(1993). * [17] H. Ihara, M. Jo, N. Terada, M. Hirabayashi, H. Oyanagi,
K. Murata, Y. Kimura, R. Sugise, I. Hayashida, S. Ohashi, and M. Kimoto,
Physica C **153-155**, 131 (1988). * [18] M. Nagoshi, Y. Fukuda, N.
Sanada, Y. Syono, A. T. Yamamoto, and M. Tachiki, J. Electron Spectrosc.
Relat. Phenom. **61**, 309 (1993). * [19] For example, T. Takahashi, H.
Matsuyama, H. K-Yoshida, Y. Okabe, S. Hosoya, K. Seki, H. Fujimoto, M.
Sato, and H. Inokuchi, Nature **334**, 69 (1988); M. Onellion, Ming
Tang, Y. Chang, G. Margaritondo, J. M. Tarascon, P. A. Morris, W. A.
Bonner, and N. G. Stoffel, Phys. Rev. B **38**, 881 (1988); Z. X. Shen,
P. A. P. Lindeberg, I. Lindau, W. E. Spicer, C. B. Eom, and T. H.
Geballe, _ibid._**38**, 7152 (1988). * [20] P. Marksteiner, S. Massida,
J. Yu, A. J. Freeman, and J. Redinger, Phys. Rev. B **38**, 5098
(1988). * [21] B. O. Wells, P. A. P. Lindberg, Z. X. Shen, D. S. Dessau,
W. E. Spicer, and I. Lindau, Phys. Rev. B **40**, 5259 (1989). * [22] T.
Takahashi, H. Matsuyama, H. K. Yoshida, K. Seki, K. Kamiya, and H.
Inokuchi, Physica C **170**, 416 (1990). * [23] W. Drube, F. J. Himpsel,
G. V. Chandrashekhar, and M. W. Shafer, Phys. Rev. B **39**, 7328
(1989). * [24] T. J. Wagener, Y. J. Hu, M. B. Jost, J. H. Weaver, Y. F.
Yan, X. Chu, and Z. X. Zhao, Phys. Rev. B **42**, 6317 (1990). * [25] P.
Horsch, W. H. Stephan, K. V. Szczepanski, M. Ziegler, and W. Von der
Linden, Physica C **162-164**, 783 (1989); P. C. Patnaik and D. M.
Newns, Phys. Rev. B **41**, 880 (1990); C. Melo and S. Doniach,
_ibid._**41**, 6633 (1990). * [26] H. Romberg, M. Alexander, N. Nucker,
P. Adelmann, and J. Fink, Phys. Rev. B **42**, 8768 (1990). * [27] T.
Takahashi, S. Suzuki, T. Kusunoki, S. Sato, H. K. Yoshida, A. Yamanaka,
F. Minami, and S. Takekawa, Physica C **185-189**, 1057 (1991). * [28]
T. Watanabe, T. Takahashi, S. Suzuki, S. Sato, and H. K. Yoshida, Phys.
Rev. B **44**, 5316 (1991).
