Magnetic properties of the overdoped superconductor La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄
with and without Zn impurities

S. Wakimoto,^(1, 2, *) R. J. Birgeneau,^(1, 3) A. Kagedan,¹ Hyunkyung
Kim,¹ I. Swainson,⁴ K. Yamada,⁵ and H. Zhang¹

¹Department of Physics, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada
M5S 1A7

²Advanced Science Research Center, Japan Atomic Energy Research
Institute, Tokai, Ibaraki 319-1195, Japan

³Department of Physics, University of California, Berkeley, Berkeley,
California 94720-7300, USA

⁴Neutron Program for Materials Research, National Research Council of
Canada, Chalk River, Ontario, Canada K0J 1J0

⁵Institute of Material Research, Tohoku University, Katahira, Sendai
980-8577, Japan

21 March 200525 August 200521 March 200525 August 2005

###### Abstract

The magnetic properties of the Zn-substituted overdoped high-T_(c)
superconductor La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)Cu_(1 − x)Zn_(x)O₄ have been studied by
magnetization measurements and neutron scattering. Magnetization
measurements reveal that for Zn-free samples with x ≥ 0.22 a Curie term
is induced in the temperature dependence of the magnetic susceptibility
implying the existence of local paramagnetic moments. The induced Curie
constant corresponds to a moment of 0.5 μ_(B) per additional Sr²⁺ ion
that exceeds x =0.22. Zn substitution in the overdoped
La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄ also induces a Curie term that corresponds to 1.2
μ_(B) per Zn²⁺ ion, simultaneously suppressing T_(c). The relationship
between T_(c) and the magnitude of the Curie term for Zn-free
La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄ with x ≥ 0.22 and for Zn-substituted
La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄ with x = 0.22 are closely similar. This signifies a
general competitive relationship between the superconductivity and the
induced paramagnetic moment. Neutron scattering measurements show that
Zn substitution in overdoped La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄ anomalously enhances
the inelastic magnetic scattering spectra around the (π, π) position,
peaking at ω ∼ 7 meV. These facts are discussed on the basis of a
"swiss-cheese" model of Zn-substituted systems as well as a microscopic
phase separation scenario in the overdoped region indicated by
muon-spin-relaxation measurements.

2010 10.1103/PhysRevB.72.064521 2005 21 March 200525 August 2005

## I Introduction

Neutron scattering studies of the magnetic response in the hole-doped
high-T_(c) cuprates up to the optimally doped region have revealed rich
and complex behavior of the static and dynamic spin correlations. For
the La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄ (LSCO) system, an incommensurate modulation at
low energies has been found around the antiferromagnetic (AF) wave
vector [1, 2, 3] with the incommensurability, defined as the inverse of
the modulation period, proportional to the hole concentration [4].
Moreover, at the lower critical hole concentration of superconductivity,
with increasing doping the modulation direction changes from the
diagonal Cu-Cu direction in the insulator region to the parallel Cu-O-Cu
direction in the superconducting (SC) region [5, 6, 7, 8]. Such
incommensurate magnetic features have been discussed on the basis of a
microscopically inhomogeneous electronic state of which the most
commonly discussed example is charge stripes [9, 10, 11, 12].

For the YBa₂Cu₃O_(6 + x) (YBCO) system, although the same type of low
energy incommensurate magnetic response has been confirmed [13, 14, 15,
16, 17], the most prominent feature is a resonance peak that originates
from a strong magnetic excitation at intermediate energies (∼40 meV) at
the commensurate AF vector. It has been hypothesized that the resonance
is directly related to the superconductivity [18, 19, 16, 17]. The
resonance feature has been observed for other hole doped high-T_(c)
cuprates as well [20, 21], although until recently attempts to establish
the universality of the resonance peak have been unsuccessful. However,
recent high energy measurements on YBCO [22, 23, 24],
La_(2 − x)Br_(x)CuO₄[25], and LSCO [26] have indeed suggested a
universal magnetic response; specifically, in each material the low
energy incommensurate excitation disperses inwards with increasing
energy and meets at the commensurate AF vector; the excitation then
again disperses outwards in an approximately symmetric fashion in the
high energy region.

These facts suggest that subtly different spectral weight distributions
in the universal dispersion discussed above give rise to the apparently
different magnetic responses in each compound. In the case of the LSCO
system, there is a relatively large spectral weight in the low energy
incommensurate excitations. The LSCO system provides the fortunate
possibility of systematically studying the behavior over an extremely
wide range of hole concentrations from the underdoped to the overdoped
region. To date, however, the magnetic properties in the overdoped
region are not well understood. Recent neutron scattering experiments
[27] have revealed a surprising feature in the magnetism in overdoped
LSCO. These measurements show that the integrated dynamic spin
susceptibility χ^(′′)(ω) has a maximum at ω ∼ 6 meV and this maximum
χ^(′′)(ω) decreases linearly with T_(c) for samples with x ≥ 0.25.
Finally the low energy magnetic response disappears coincident with the
disappearance of bulk superconductivity at x =0.30. Therefore the
low-energy incommensurate excitations are intimately connected with the
superconductivity.

In the present paper we report a study of the magnetism in overdoped
LSCO with and without Zn impurities. Neutron scattering and magnetic
susceptibility measurements elucidate the dependence of the
superconductivity on certain features of the low energy magnetism in the
overdoped region. Magnetic susceptibility measurements of LSCO with 0.18
≤ x ≤ 0.28 reveal that the temperature dependence of the susceptibility
_kh_(_T_) for x 0.22 falls on the universal curve originally reported by
Johnston,[28] while _kh_(_T_) for x 0.22 exhibits in addition Curie
paramagnetism; these results are qualitatively consistent with those of
Oda _et al._[29, 30, 31] By comparing results in overdoped LSCO with and
without Zn impurities, it is found that both hole-overdoping and Zn
substitution induce Curie paramagnetism as well as a decrease in T_(c)
in the same manner, although Zn substitution has a stronger effect. This
implies a general competitive relationship between the superconductivity
and the **q**=0 Curie paramagnetism. Neutron scattering experiments for
Zn-substituted LSCO with x = 0.20 and 0.25 exhibit an anomalous
enhancement of the incommensurate inelastic magnetic scattering around
the (_p_ π) position. Zn-substituted samples exhibit the same
incommensurability and coherence length, while the enhancement in the x
= 0.25 sample is smaller than that in x = 0.20. These facts are
apparently consistent with a "swiss-cheese" model of Zn-impurity
effects[32] and a microscopic phase separation model of the overdoped
cuprates hypothesized from muon-spin-relaxation (_m_SR)
measurements.[33]

The organization of this paper is as follows. In Sec. II, the
experimental details are presented. Results of the magnetic
susceptibility measurements of La2-Sr,Cu1-Zn3O4 (LSCZO) together with an
empirical scaling relation of the high temperature susceptibility are
introduced in Sec. III. Neutron scattering results of hole-overdoped
LSCZO are reported in Sec. IV. Finally, the results are discussed on the
basis of the swiss-cheese model and the phase separation model in Sec. V
and then summarized in Sec. VI.

## II Experimental Details

For the magnetization measurements, a series of ceramic samples of LSCZO
were synthesized by the conventional solid state reaction method. The
appropriate stoichiometric quantities of the starting materials, La2O3,
SrCO3, CuO, and ZnO were ground and baked in air for 12 h at 900 degC
followed by an additional grinding process. The reacted powder was then
pelletized under hydrostatic pressure and sintered in air at 900 degC
for 10 h and at 1150 degC for an additional 10 h. Finally, the
pelletized samples were annealed in flowing oxygen gas at 850 degC for
12 h to restore any oxygen deficiencies in their composition.

The magnetic susceptibility measurements were carried out using a
Quantum Design physical property measurement system (PPMS). The samples
were mounted at the end of a plastic straw with a small amount of Kapton
tape. The sample chamber was purged 20 times at room temperature before
each measurement in order to minimize any air presence in the
measurement environment. The SC shielding effect was measured with a
field of 10 Oe after cooling under zero field to determine the SC
transition temperature T_(c). The high temperature magnetic
susceptibility was measured with a field of 5 T over a temperature range
of 20−350 K after cooling under zero field.

For the neutron scattering measurements, single crystals of LSCZO were
grown by the traveling solvent floating zone method.[34, 35] Feed rods
were prepared in the same manner as the ceramic samples mentioned above
aside from the addition of excess CuO of 2 to 3 mol

Inelastic neutron scattering experiments were performed using the C5
spectrometer at Chalk River Laboratory for all samples except the
Zn-free x = 0.20 sample, and the TAS1 spectrometer at the Japan Atomic
Energy Research Institute for the Zn-free x = 0.20 sample. A fixed final
energy (E_(f)) of 14.5 meV (l = 2.37 A) and the collimation sequence of
33’-48’-51’-120’ were used for the former spectrometer while for the
latter the configuration was E_(f) = 14.7 meV and 40’-80’-80’-open.
Pyrolytic graphite (PG) crystals were used as a monochromator and an
analyzer. A PG filter was placed between the sample and the analyzer to
eliminate higher order neutrons with wavelengths l/2 and l/3. For each
concentration, two single crystals were coaligned on an Al sample holder
with the a and b axes in the scattering plane, and then mounted in a
closed cycle He refrigerator.

All samples except the x = 0.20 sample are tetragonal down to the lowest
temperature with typical lattice constants of a = b = 3.73 A,
corresponding to reciprocal lattice units of a = b = 1.68 A-1 in
tetragonal notation with space group I4/_mmm_. The x = 0.20 sample
exhibits a structural phase transition from the high-temperature
tetragonal to the low-temperature orthorhombic phase at  70 K, in good
agreement with previous work.[36] Throughout this paper we use
tetragonal notation to express the indices.

## III Magnetic Susceptibility

### Scaling behavior

Before we present the results of our magnetic susceptibility
measurements, we introduce the previously determined empirical scaling
relation. Johnston[28] has systematically measured the temperature
dependence of the magnetic susceptibility _kh_(_x_, _T_) of LSCO for 0
<= x 0.2 and represented the data by the formula

χ(x, T) = χ₀(x) + χ^(2D)(x, T),

where _kh_0 is the temperature independent uniform susceptibility and
χ^(2D)(x, T) is the temperature dependent in-plane susceptibility.
Johnston has reported that if one assumes the proper value for
_kh_0(_x_), then _kh_2(_D_) follows the simple scaling relation

$$F(T/T_{max}(x)) = \frac{\chi^{2D}(T,x)}{\chi^{2D}_{max}(T_{max},x)},$$

where F is a universal function and χ_(max)^(2D) is the maximum value of
_kh_2(_x_2D at T = _T_max. This scaling relation has been reexamined in
detail by Oda _et al.[29]_ for a wide concentration range of LSCO and
LBCO. They observed that beyond the hole concentration of x = 0.18 in
LSCO, T_(x) saturates and _kh_(_x_, _T_) begins to deviate from the
universal scaling function. Furthermore, this deviation takes the form
of a Curie paramagnetic term. Thus, in the overdoped region, the
susceptibility can be expressed as
$$\chi(x,T)=\chi_{0}(x)+\chi^{2D}(x,T)+\frac{C}{T},$$
(3)

where C is the Curie constant.

We present first the scaling relation in the current polycrystalline
samples that were annealed systematically in the same manner. The
temperature dependences of the magnetic susceptibility, χ(x, T), for
hole concentrations of x=0.18, 0.20, and 0.22 are shown in Fig 1(a). The
data display a clear shift in T_(max) to lower T with increasing hole
concentration, qualitatively consistent with previous results.[28, 29,
30] These χ(x, T) curves can be scaled excellently by Eq. (2) as shown
in Fig. 1(b). The values of T_(max), χ_(max), and χ₀ used to scale the
data are summarized in Table 1, where χ_(max) is defined as
χ_(max)=χ_(max)^(2D)+χ₀. The increase of χ₀ with increasing hole
concentration x is probably due to the increase of the Pauli
susceptibility, again qualitatively consistent with previous results.

### Curie paramagnetism

As the doping is increased beyond x=0.22, we have observed that a Curie
paramagnetic term appears in the χ(x, T) curve. Figure 2(a) shows the
χ(x, T) curves for x=0.22 and 0.24, the latter of which cannot be scaled
by Eq. (2). Instead, the differential χ(x=0.24)-χ(x=0.22) can be fitted
excellently by the Curie term C/T+Δχ₀ with Curie constant C =1.25 x 10-6
emu K/g as shown in Fig. 2(b). The constant term Δχ₀ is included to
account for a possible change of the "background" susceptibility due to
variations in both χ₀ and the measurement environment. The excellent
agreement between the data and the fit indicates that for x> 0.22 a
simple Curie paramagnetic component appears in addition to the
universally scaled χ^(2D). Although there is a difference in the onset
concentration where the Curie term starts to appear, possibly due to a
difference in the postannealing condition, the present results are
qualitatively consistent with those of Oda _et al.[29]_ Thus the
overdoping of charge carriers in the LSCO system induces Curie
paramagnetism and reduces T_(c).

Similar to these effects, it is well-known that the substitution of
small amounts of Cu²⁺ ions with nonmagnetic ions, such as Zn²⁺, induces
Curie paramagnetism and eliminates superconductivity. To compare these
effects, one by Sr overdoping and the other by Zn substitution, we
studied the magnetic susceptibility of
La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)Cu_(1 − y)Zn_(y)O₄. Figure 3 highlights the correlation
between the dopant concentration and the observed decrease in T_(c)
which implies the extinction of superconductivity. Note that the
horizontal axis shows the total amount of dopant x+y. Closed circles,
representing the data for the Zn-free (y= 0) samples, indicate a gradual
decrease of T_(c) with increasing x. T_(c) for the Zn-free single
crystals referred from Ref. [27] are also shown by diamonds, dem

Figure 2: (a) Temperature dependence of the magnetic susceptibilities of
Zn-free samples with x=0.22 and 0.24. (b) Differential plot of
χ(x=0.24)-χ(x=0.22). (c) Magnetic susceptibilities of the Zn-free x=0.22
sample and a Zn-doped sample with x=0.22 and y=0.005. A sharp small peak
at ∼50 K in the data for (x, y) =(0.22, 0.005) is due to the
condensation of a small amount of oxygen in the sample chamber. (d)
Differential plot of χ(x =0.22, y=0)-χ(x=0.22, y=0.005). For (b) and
(d), the lines are the results of fits to the Curie term C/T.

Figure 1: (a) Temperature dependence of the magnetic susceptibility for
x=0.18, 0.20, and 0.22. The extreme drop off in χ(T, x) at very low T is
due to the SC transition. (b) Universal scaling function,
F(T/T_(max))=χ^(2D)/χ_(max)^(2D), for the noted hole concentrations.

onstrating excellent agreement with our results on the present powder
samples. In contrast, the data for the Zn-substituted samples with fixed
Sr concentrations x = 0.20 and 0.22 indicated by squares and triangles,
respectively, show a drastic decrease of _Tc_ with increasing y.

As expected, Zn substitution in the samples in the overdoped regime also
induces Curie paramagnetism. Figure 2(c) shows _kh_(_T_) curves for two
x = 0.22 samples with y = 0 and 0.005. The latter sample shows a small
sharp peak at  50 K which arises from the condensation of oxygen in the
measurement environment as a result of inadvertently not achieving a
proper vacuum in the measurement chamber for those particular data. The
differential of _kh_(_x_ = 0.22,y = 0).005) - _kh_(_x_ = 0.22,y = 0)
excluding the temperature range where the oxygen peak appears is shown
in Fig. 2(d). Again the differential can be fitted excellently by a
simple Curie term with C = 2.59 x 10-6 emu K/g. Thus Zn substitution
induces effects on the magnetism and superconductivity which are exactly
analogous to those caused by Sr doping for x 0.22.

The present data for the magnetic susceptibility for La2-xSrCu1-Zn3O4
are summarized in Fig. 4. These data evince a clear correlation between
a decrease of _Tc_ and an increase of the Curie constant. From the
results to the Zn-doped samples with fixed Sr concentration at x = 0.20
shown by squares together with the datum point for the Zn-free sample
indicated by an open circle, we conclude that increasing the Zn ion
concentration reduces _Tc_ and increases the Curie constant. The solid
line is the result of a fit of these three datum points represented by
open symbols to a linear function _Tc_ = a x C + _Tc_ (_x_ = 0.20,y = 0)
which gives a = -3.8(+-0.3) x 106 g/emu. Similarly, starting from a
Zn-free x = 0.22 sample, both further doping of Sr and Zn substitution
reduce _Tc_ as well as increase C in a similar manner as shown by the
closed circles and triangles, respectively. These data may also be fit
to a linear function _Tc_ = a x C + _Tc_ (_x_ = 0.22,y = 0). The best
fit, shown by the dashed line, is given by a = -4.2(+-0.6) x 106 g/emu,
which is the same as that for the Zn doped x = 0.20 samples. Thus, very
interestingly, the overdoping of Sr for x 0.22 and Zn substitution
exhibit closely analogous effects, namely a decrease of _Tc_ with
increasing C, although the Zn substitution has a much stronger effect.
This implies a general competitive relationship between the
superconductivity and the Curie paramagnetism. Most importantly, it
implies that in the overdoped regime for x 0.22 increasing the Sr
concentration creates local moments which in turn destroy the
superconductivity.

## IV Dynamic antiferromagnetic correlations

Neutron scattering experiments have been performed to probe any
differences in the antiferromagnetic (AF) correlations between Zn-free
and Zn-substituted overdoped LSCO. The observed magnetic cross section
can be written as

$$\frac{\sigma^{2}\sigma}{\partial\Omega\omega\omega} = A\frac{1}{\hbar}p^{2}f^{2}(Q)e^{-2\omega}\frac{2\chi^{\prime \prime}({\bf Q},\omega)}{\pi\mu_{B}^{2}}(n + 1),$$

where p is the magnetic scattering length 0.27 x 10-12 cm, _f_(_Q_) is
the magnetic form factor, _e_-2w is the Debye-Waller factor, m_(B) is
the Bohr magneton, and (_n_ + 1) is the thermal population factor. To
compare the dynamic spin susceptibility
$\chi^{\prime\prime}({\bf Q},\omega)$ between Zn-free and Zn-substituted
samples, the observed cross section has been normalized by the
integrated phonon intensity

Figure 4: _Tc_ as a function of Curie constant for the La2-xSrCu1-Zn3O4
samples in the overdoped regime. Circles are data for the Zn-free
samples. Squares and triangles indicate data for Zn-doped x = 0.20 and
0.22 samples, respectively. The solid line is the result of a fit of the
datum points for samples with x = 0.20 shown by open symbols to a linear
function _Tc_ = _α_ C + _Tc_ (_x_ = 0.20,y = 0), while the dashed line
is the result of a fit of the rest of the datum points shown by closed
symbols to a linear function _Tc_ = _α_ C + _Tc_ (_x_ = 0.22,y = 0).

Figure 3: Decrease in _Tc_ due to the combination of increased hole
concentration and Zn doping in the overdoped regime. Note that the
horizontal axis indicates the summation of both dopant concentrations
x + y of La2–xSrCu1-Zn3O4. The circles represent data for the Zn-free
samples. The diamonds represent _Tc_ for Zn-free single crystals
referred from Ref. 27. The squares and triangles represent data for the
Zn-doped x = 0.20 and 0.22 samples, respectively. The Zn amounts are y =
0.005 and 0.01 in order of decreasing _Tc_ for x = 0.20, and y = 0.0025
and 0.05 for x = 0.22.

$$I = A\frac{1}{2\omega_{p}}\frac{|\mathbf{Q}|^{2}\cos\,\beta}{M}|F(Q)|^{2}(n+1)\,,$$
(5)

where ω_(p) is the phonon frequency, β is the angle between Q and the
phonon polarization vector, M is the molecular weight, and |F(Q)| is the
structure factor. Details of the normalization procedure are given in
the Appendix including raw data of phonon and magnetic cross sections.
The χ^(′′)(Q, ω) so obtained has been fitted to a resolution-convoluted
two-dimensional Lorentzian function to derive the incommensurability δ
and the intrinsic peak width κ(ω):

$$\chi^{\prime\prime}(\mathbf{Q},\omega)\propto\sum_{i}\frac{1}{(\mathbf{Q}- \mathbf{Q}_{i})^{2}+\kappa(\omega)^{2}},$$
(6)

where the summation over i has been carried out for the four
incommensurate peaks at (1/2 ± δ, 1/2) and (1/2, 1/2 ± δ).

Figure 5 shows χ^(′′)(Q, ω) for the Zn-free and Zn-substituted x = 0.25
samples at ω = 6.2 meV which is the energy at which the dynamic
susceptibility of the Zn-free sample has a maximum. The scan was made
along the trajectory (1/2, 1/2 + q) as shown by the arrow in the inset.
The data for y = 0 in Fig. 5(b) are taken from Ref. [27]. Clearly, there
is an anomalous enhancement of χ^(′′)(Q, ω) as a result of the Zn
substitution. Furthermore, the Zn-substituted sample exhibits a somewhat
flat-top shape profile possibly due to a smaller incommensurability and
larger peak width. Identical effects are observed in the x = 0.20
samples as shown in Fig. 6. However, accounting for the different scales
of the vertical axes in Figs. 6 and 5, it is evident that the x = 0.20
sample with y = 0.005 has a larger enhancement of χ^(′′)(Q, ω) than the
x = 0.25 sample with y = 0.01.

Before discussing the enhancement of χ^(′′)(Q, ω) in detail, we first
consider the changes in the incommensurability δ and intrinsic width
κ(ω) evinced by fitting the data to the resolution-convoluted Eq. (6).
The results of the fits are shown as the solid lines in Figs. 5 and 6,
and the parameters δ and κ(ω) are summarized in Table 2. Consistent with
previous work, [4, 37, 38] the incommensurability δ for the Zn-free
samples saturates at ∼ 1/8. However, a small amount of Zn appears to
reduce the incommensurability by ∼10

It is an open question why the incommensurability appears to decrease in
the Zn-doped samples. We note that the peak profile for the sample with
x = 0.25 and y = 0.01 in Fig. 5(a) can be alternatively reproduced
approximately by a summation of a commensurate peak and the χ^(′′)(Q, ω)
of the Zn-free x = 0.25, implying the possibility that Zn doping adds a
commensurate feature; this is in place of the explanation given above
that Zn-doping enhances the incommensurate magnetic correlations. Either
interpretation, however, is consistent with the conclusions drawn in the
later sections.

Next, we present the enhancement of the spin susceptibility. Figure 7
shows the ω-dependence of the q-integrated

  ------ ------- ------------ ------------
    x       y     δ (r.l.u.)   κ(ω) (Å⁻¹)
   0.20     0      0.133(8)    0.049(13)
   0.20   0.005    0.111(6)    0.156(13)
   0.25     0      0.123(8)    0.087(19)
   0.25   0.01     0.111(5)    0.160(19)
  ------ ------- ------------ ------------

Table 2: Incommensurability δ in reciprocal lattice units (r.l.u.) and
intrinsic width κ obtained by fitting the data to Eq. (6).

Figure 6: Analogous plots to Fig. 5 of χ^(′′)(Q, ω) for the (a)
Zn-substituted (x = 0.005) and (b) Zn-free LSCO with x = 0.20. Note that
the vertical axis scale is different from that of Fig. 5.

dynamic spin susceptibility
$\int dq^{2}\chi^{\prime\prime}({\bf q},\omega)$ where the integration
is carried out over the four rods. Corresponding to the enhancement
shown in Figs. 5 and 6, the Zn-substituted samples have a large
integrated χ^(′′). The Zn-free overdoped samples have been reported to
have no clear spin gap down to ω=2 meV and show a linear increase with
ω.[27] For the Zn-doped samples, no spin gap is observed down to ω =4
meV and, moreover, no static magnetic peaks are observed. At ω ≈ 4 meV,
we presume a linear dependence with ω similar to that of the Zn-free
samples as illustrated in Fig. 7. Notably, the spectra for the samples
doped with Zn retain their maxima at ω ∼ 7 meV which is very close to
the energy where χ^(′′) of the Zn-free overdoped samples have their
maxima.[27] This is in contrast to the case of Zn-substituted optimally
doped LSCO x=0.15.[39, 40] In this case, while the χ^(′′) spectrum of
Zn-free x=0.15 has a gap below ∼4 meV and a maximum at ω=8 meV, Zn
substitution gives rise to significant spectral weight inside the gap
and with further substitution static (ω=0) spin-density-wave (SDW) order
appears. This difference is discussed in detail in the next section.

## V Discussion

Our measurements of the uniform magnetic susceptibility, that is q = 0
measurements, have revealed that a paramagnetic moment is induced by
both Zn substitution and by Sr overdoping for x ≈ 0.22 and in both cases
the superconductivity is perturbed in the same manner. On the other
hand, the neutron scattering around q=(π, π) demonstrates an anomalous
enhancement of the dynamic AF correlations as a result of Zn
substitution while the Zn-free sample shows a monotonic decrease in
χ^(′′) with increasing Sr concentration for x ≈ 0.25.[27] In this
section we discuss the observed phenomena in detail to reconcile these
observations.

### Paramagnetism and superconductivity

The suppression of T_(c) by magnetic perturbations has been discussed in
pioneering work by Abrikosov and Gor’kov.[41] Oda _et al.[29]_ found
that the decrease of T_(c) as a function of the Curie constant C for
both overdoped LSCO and LBCO without Zn follows the Abrikosov-Gor’kov
(AG) theory. In the present study, because of our limited amount of
data, fits of the data in Fig. 4 to the AG theory itself yields results
with unacceptably large uncertainties. Hence we utilized a linear
function which is a reasonable approximation when the magnetic impurity
concentration is small. The agreement of the slope α for both the
Zn-substituted and Sr-overdoped systems shown in Fig. 4 provides the
important insight that the T_(c) suppression with increasing Sr
concentration in the overdoped region of LSCO is concomitant with the
induced paramagnetic moments as in the case of Zn substitution.

The Curie constant is related to the local moment by

$$C=\frac{Np_{eff}^{2}\mu_{B}^{2}}{3k_{B}},$$
(7)

where N is the number of induced paramagnetic spins and p_(eff) is the
effective moment in units of μ_(B). Using this formula with the
assumption that N=N_(Zn) (N_(Zn) is the number of Zn impurities), for
the Zn-substituted samples of the present study one finds
p_(eff)=1.2(±0.3)/Zn. This is in agreement with the previous result of
p_(eff)=1/Zn for the Sr-underdoped regime of 0.05 ≤ x ≈ 0.15.[42] This
is consistent with the intuitive picture that a nonmagnetic impurity
breaks up a local AF pair there yielding a single free spin. Perhaps
more surprisingly, Sr-overdoped samples without Zn give p_(eff)
=0.5(±0.1)/Sr if we assume N=N_(x)-N_(0.22), that is, based on the
empirical results, p_(eff) is assumed to be given by the concentration
of Sr ions that exceed x=0.22. An alternative approach is to assume that
the induced moment p_(eff) =$\sqrt{g^{2}S}$(S+1) with S=1/2 is always 1.
In this case, the change of p_(eff) in the Sr case would be absorbed by
a change in the number of local moments N given by N
=(N_(x)-N_(0.22))/4. This implies that ∼1/4 of the Sr ions that exceed
x=0.22 induce pair-breaking of the local AF pairs.

It is an open question how 1/4 of the overdoped Sr or holes create the
paramagnetic moment. As a possible scenario, 1/4 of the overdoped Sr²⁺
ions could substitute on the Cu sites instead of the La sites and thus
act as nonmagnetic impurities. Since the LSCO system tends to be
oxygen-vacant in the overdoped regime, this might be
crystallographically possible even though Sr²⁺ has a larger ionic radius
than Cu²⁺. However, in our view this is not likely since the effects on
the dynamic AF correlation are fundamentally different between Zn
substitution and Sr overdoping as we will discuss later. Alternatively,
an origin based on the overdoped holes, rather than the doped ions
themselves, may be possible; for example, if 1/4 of overdoped holes were
to choose the Cu 3d orbital rather than O 2p, this would result in the
elimination of the Cu local moment just as in the case of Zn
substitution. Further study is necessary to obtain a microscopic
understanding.

### Zn-impurity effects on AF correlations

Based on their μSR measurements, Nachumi _et al.[32]_ have suggested a
"swiss-cheese" model of the Zn impurity effects. In this model, the
magnetically affected area is located

Figure 7: ω-dependence of q-integrated dynamic spin susceptibility of
LSCZO samples together with the data for the Zn-free LSCO with x = 0.25
referred from Ref. [27]. The lines are guides to the eye.

around the impurity Zn ion and, therefore, the observed enhancement of
the spectral weight in χ^(′′) must originate from this area. As shown in
Table 2, κ(ω) for the Zn-substituted samples exhibits the same value
∼0.16 A⁻¹ in spite of the different κ(ω) values of the Zn-free samples.
Correspondingly, the affected area has a length scale of 1/κ(ω) = 6 A in
the overdoped case which is quite a bit smaller than in the case of the
optimally and underdoped LSCO.

As shown in Fig. 7, χ^(′′), which is greatly enhanced by a small amount
of Zn substitution, nevertheless still peaks at ω=7 meV. This is
qualitatively different from the behavior in the optimally doped LSCO
case. As revealed by neutron scattering, a small amount of Zn impurity
(y ≤ 0.01) in optimally doped LSCO induces spectral weight in χ^(′′) in
the spin-gap energy region and, furthermore, spin-density-wave order
develops with further Zn substitution (y = 0.017).[39, 40] Our results
for the _overdoped_ LSCO with Zn do not show either detectable SDW order
or a spectral peak shift to lower energies in comparison to the Zn-free
samples. We speculate that the overdoped sample has a characteristic
spin fluctuation frequency that is higher than that in the optimally
doped sample and therefore the induced χ^(′′) peaks at a higher ω in the
overdoped case than in the optimal case. This may also be the reason why
no static SDW state develops in overdoped LSCO substituted with Zn as
shown by the absence of a wipeout effect observed by nuclear quadrupole
resonance[43] and the absence of static magnetic order observed by
muon-spin-relaxation (μSR).[44]

Another important insight into the nature of the overdoped cuprates has
been suggested by μSR; the muon-spin-relaxation rate σ which is
proportional to the SC carrier density decreases with increasing doping
in overdoped Tl₂Ba₂CuO_(6 + δ)[45, 46]. This has been attributed to
microscopic phase separation of the charge carriers into local
Cooper-paired SC states and unpaired Fermi liquid (FL) states. The
decreasing T_(c) in the overdoped region is correlated with a
corresponding decrease in the SC volume fraction.[33] This scenario can
be reconciled with our neutron scattering observations if we assume that
the SC regions retain dynamic AF spin correlations that support Cooper
pair formation while the FL region has no AF correlations and
concomitantly no superconductivity.

In this scenario, the linear decrease of χ^(′′) with T_(c) observed in
Ref. [27] can be naturally understood as originating from the decrease
of the SC volume fraction. The complete disappearance of χ^(′′) in the
nonsuperconducting x = 0.30 sample signifies the 100

## VI Concluding remarks

We have measured the uniform magnetic susceptibility and neutron
scattering of overdoped LSCO with and without Zn impurities. Uniform
susceptibility measurements show clearly that the superconductivity in
the overdoped region is perturbed by the induced Curie paramagnetism. On
the other hand, our neutron scattering results are consistent with a
microscopic phase separation scenario into local superconducting and
Fermi liquid regions. To reconcile these facts, it is natural to
speculate that the paramagnetic Curie behavior originates from the
nonsuperconducting Fermi liquid region in the Zn-free samples. It is
important to elucidate microscopically how the overdoped Sr ions or
associated holes create the paramagnetic moments and the Fermi-liquid
regions simultaneously.

As for the Zn-doped LSCO for x ≥ 0.20, we have observed a surprisingly
large enhancement of the AF correlations around (ππ) by a tiny amount of
Zn impurity. The enhancement in the overdoped samples far exceeds that
in the optimally doped LSCO.[39, 40] As we discussed, our observations
appear to be qualitatively consistent with the swiss

Figure 8: Raw data of phonon (left) and magnetic peaks (right) for the x
= 0.25 samples without and with Zn. All profiles are measured at the CS
spectrometer with fixed E_(f)=14.5 meV and a collimation sequence of
33′-48′-51′-120′. The magnetic cross sections are collected by counting
for 10 min/point for the Zn-doped and 20 min/point for the Zn-free
samples.

cheese model that limits the Zn impurity effect on the magnetism to the
area around the Zn ions. It is, however, disputable quantitatively that
a small area around the Zn-impurities causes such a huge effect. To
elucidate the origin of the enhancement, it is also important to study
the Zn effects on the spin excitations in the high energy region.

Finally, our measurements have evinced remarkable changes in the
magnetic properties from the optimally doped to the overdoped regime:
appearance of the Curie paramagnetism and anomalous enhancement of AF
correlations by Zn impurities. Moreover, around the lower boundary of
the overdoped region, the conductivity changes from unusual-metallic to
normal-metallic behavior; other measurements suggest that the pseudogap
closes in this same crossover region. These facts may imply an
intriguing phase crossover between the optimally doped and overdoped
regions around x=0.20 which is crucial to the superconductivity. Further
theoretical and experimental studies of this crossover should give new
insights into the physics of high-T_(c) superconductivity.

## Acknowledgments

The authors thank Z. Tun, J. M. Tranquada, C. Stock, G. Shirane, M.
Matsuda, B. Khaykovich, K. Kakurai, Y. Endoh, and W. J. L. Buyers for
invaluable discussions. Work at the University of Toronto is part of the
Canadian Institute of Advanced Research and supported by the Natural
Science and Engineering Research Council of Canada, while research at
Tohoku University is supported by a Grant-in-Aid from the Japanese
Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology.

## Appendix

To compare the magnetic profiles of the different samples directly, the
normalization has been made based on phonon intensities using Eqs. (4)
and (5). The left-side figures in Fig. 8 show raw data of phonon peaks
of the x=0.25 samples with and without Zn measured at
**Q**=(0.92,1.08,0), using the same spectrometer configuration. The peak
at ∼2 meV adjacent to the phonon peak at ∼4.5 meV originates from the
tail of the nuclear Bragg peak detected by the edge of the resolution
ellipsoid, proving that scans are made on the focusing side. Since the
data are taken by fixing the final energy E_(f) first the data have been
corrected for higher order neutrons monitor rates at each incident
energy E_(i). Those for the Chalk River Reactor have been measured and
reported in Ref. [17], while those for the JAERI reactor have been
determined by a general formula in Ref. [47]. Then the phonon peaks have
been fitted by a Gaussian line shape to evaluate the phonon integrated
intensity I in Eq. (5). Thus one can now evaluate the parameter A.

Using the A obtained above in Eq. (4), the observed magnetic cross
section may be directly connected to $\chi^{\prime}({\bf Q},\omega)$ as
normalized. For this purpose, we estimated the net magnetic intensity by
subtracting the background. The figures on the right in Fig. 8 show the
observed raw profiles of the magnetic peaks. While the figures are shown
as the intensity for 1 min counting time, the actual measurements were
done by counting for 10 min for the Zn-doped sample and for 20 min for
the Zn-free sample. In analyses of the most corrected profiles, we have
used a flat or sloping background. For the profile of the Zn-doped
x=0.25 sample shown in the right-top figure, however, we have utilized a
broadly peaked background since the wide-ranged profile naturally
implies such a background. Unfortunately, we were not able to determine
the origin of the peaked background; however, assuming either a sloped
or peaked background does not affect the results dramatically. The
background-subtracted magnetic intensities have been corrected for
higher order neutron monitor rates and then the obtained cross section
has been determined as ϑ²σ/ϑΩω in Eq. (4). Finally, the normalized
$\chi^{\prime\prime}({\bf Q},\omega)$ shown in Fig. 5 are obtained from
the raw data shown in Fig. 8.

## References

* [1] H. Yoshizawa, S. Mitsuda, H. Kitazawa, and K. Katsumata, J. Phys.
Soc. Jpn. **57**, 3686 (1988). * [2] R. J. Birgeneau, Y. Endoh, K.
Kakurai, Y. Hidaka, T. Murakami, M. A. Kastner, T. R. Thurston, G.
Shirane, and K. Yamada, Phys. Rev. B **39**, 2868 (1989). * [3] S.-W.
Cheong, G. Aeppli, T. E. Mason, H. Mook, S. M. Hayden, P. C. Canfield,
Z. Fisk, K. N. Clausen, and J. L. Martinez, Phys. Rev. Lett. **67**,
1791 (1991). * [4] K. Yamada, C. H. Lee, K. Kurahashi, J. Wada, S.
Wakimoto, S. Ueki, H. Kimura, Y. Endoh, S. Hosoya, G. Shirane, R. J.
Birgeneau, M. Greven, M. A. Kastner, and Y. J. Kim, Phys. Rev. B **57**,
6165 (1998). * [5] S. Wakimoto, G. Shirane, Y. Endoh, K. Hirota, S.
Ueki, K. Yamada, R. J. Birgeneau, M. A. Kastner, Y. S. Lee, P. M.
Gehring, and S. H. Lee, Phys. Rev. B **60**, R769 (1999). * [6] S.
Wakimoto, R. J. Birgeneau, M. A. Kastner, Y. S. Lee, R. Erwin, P. M.
Gehring, S. H. Lee, M. Fujita, K. Yamada, Y. Endoh, K. Hirota, and G.
Shirane, Phys. Rev. B **61**, 3699 (2000). * [7] M. Matsuda, M. Fujita,
K. Yamada, R. J. Birgeneau, M. A. Kastner, H. Hiraka, Y. Endoh, S.
Wakimoto, and G. Shirane, Phys. Rev. B **62**, 9148 (2000). * [8] M.
Fujita, K. Yamada, H. Hiraka, P. M. Gehring, S.-H. Lee, S. Wakimoto, and
G. Shirane, Phys. Rev. B **65**, 064505 (2002). * [9] K. Machida,
Physica C **158**, 192 (1989). * [10] H. J. Schulz, J. Phys. (France)
**50**, 2833 (1989). * [11] J. Zaanen and O. Gunnarsson, Phys. Rev. B
**40**, R7391 (1989). * [12] V. J. Emery, S. A. Kivelson, and O. Zachar,
Phys. Rev. B **56**, 6120 (1997). * [13] P. Dai, H. A. Mook, and F.
Dogan, Phys. Rev. Lett. **80**, 1738 (1998). * [14] H. A. Mook, P. Dai,
S. M. Hayden, G. Aeppli, T. G. Perring, and F. Dogan, Nature (London)
**395**, 580 (1998).

* Arai et al. (1999) M. Arai, T. Nishijima, Y. Endoh, T. Egami, S.
Tajima, K. Tomimoto, Y. Shibaura, M. Takahashi, A. Garrett, and S. M.
Bennington, Phys. Rev. Lett. **83**, 608 (1999). * Dai et al. (2001) P.
Dai, H. A. Mook, R. D. Hunt, and F. Dogan, Phys. Rev. B **63**, 054525
(2001). * Stock et al. (2004) C. Stock, W. J. L. Buyers, R. Liang, D.
Peets, Z. Tun, D. Bonn, W. N. Hardy, and R. J. Birgeneau, Phys. Rev. B
**69**, 014502 (2004). * Regnault et al. (1995) L. P. Regnault, P.
Bourges, P. Burlet, J. Y. Henry, J. Rossa-Mignod, Y. Sidis, and C.
Vettier, Physica B **213&214**, 48 (1995). * Fong et al. (2000) H. F.
Fong, P. Bourges, Y. Sidis, L. P. Regnault, J. Bossy, A. Ivanov, D. L.
Milius, I. A. Aksay, and B. Keimer, Phys. Rev. B **61**, 14773 (2000). *
Fong et al. (1999) H. F. Fong, P. Bourges, Y. Sidis, L. P. Lengnault, A.
Ivanov, G. D. Gu, N. Koshizuka, and B. Keimer, Nature (London) **398**,
588 (1999). * He et al. (2002) H. He, P. Bourges, Y. Sidis, C. Ulrich,
L. P. Regnault, S. Pailhes, N. S. Berzigiarova, N. N. Kolsenikov, and B.
Keimer, Science **295**, 1045 (2002). * Hayden et al. (2004) S. M.
Hayden, H. A. Mook, P. Dai, T. G. Perring, and F. Dogan, Nature (London)
**429**, 531 (2004). * Stock et al. (2005) C. Stock, W. J. L. Buyers, R.
A. Cowley, P. S. Clegg, R. Coldea, C. D. Frost, R. Liang, D. Peets, D.
Bonn, W. N. Hardy, and R. J. Birgeneau, Phys. Rev. B **71**, 024522
(2005). * Reznik et al. (2004) D. Reznik, P. Bourges, L. Pintschovins,
Y. Endoh, Y. Sidis, T. Masui, and S. Tajima, Phys. Rev. Lett. **93**,
207003 (2004). * Tranquada et al. (2004) J. M. Tranquada, H. Woo, T. G.
Perring, H. Goka, G. D. Gu, G. Xu, M. Fujita, and K. Yamada, Nature
(London) **429**, 534 (2004). * Christensen et al. (2004) N. B.
Christensen, D. F. McMorrow, H. M. Ronnow, B. Lake, S. M. Hayden, G.
Aeppli, T. G. Perring, M. Mangkorntong, M. Nohara, and H. Tagaki, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **93**, 147002 (2004). * Wakimoto et al. (2004) S. Wakimoto,
H. Zhang, K. Yamada, I. Swainson, Hyunkyung Kim, and R. J. Birgeneau,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **92**, 217004 (2004). * Johnston (1989) D. C.
Johnston, Phys. Rev. Lett. **62**, 957 (1989). * Oda et al. (1991) M.
Oda, T. Nakano, Y. Kamada, and M. Ido, Physica C **183**, 234 (1991). *
Nakano et al. (1994) T. Nakano, M. Oda, C. Manabe, N. Momono, Y. Miura,
and M. Ido, Phys. Rev. B **49**, 16000 (1994). * Nakano et al. (1998) T.
Nakano, N. Momono, T. Nagata, M. Oda, and M. Ido, Phys. Rev. B **58**,
5831 (1998). * Nachumi et al. (1996) B. Nachumi, A. Keren, K. Kojima, M.
Larkin, G. M. Luke, J. Merrin, O. Tchernyshev, Y. J. Uemura, N.
Ichikawa, M. Goto, and S. Uchida, Phys. Rev. Lett. **77**, 5421
(1996). * Uemura (2003) Y. J. Uemura, Solid State Commun. **126**, 23
(2003). * Hosoya et al. (1994) S. Hosoya, C. H. Lee, S. Wakimoto, K.
Yamada, and Y. Endoh, Physica C **235-240**, 547 (1994). * Lee et al.
(1998) C. H. Lee, N. Kaneko, S. Hosoya, K. Kurahashi, S. Wakimoto, K.
Yamada, and Y. Endoh, Semicond. Sci. Technol. **11**, 981 (1998). *
Takagi et al. (1992) H. Takagi, R. J. Cava, M. Marezio, B. Batlogg, J.
J. Krajewski, W. F. Peck, Jr., P. Bordet, and D. E. Cox, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **68**, 3777 (1992). * Lee et al. (2000) C. H. Lee, K. Yamada, Y.
Endoh, G. Shirane, R. J. Birgeneau, M. A. Kastner, M. Greven, and Y.-J.
Kim, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **69**, 1170 (2000). * Lee et al. (2003) C. H.
Lee, K. Yamada, H. Hiraka, C. R. Venkateswara Rao, and Y. Endoh, Phys.
Rev. B **67**, 134521 (2003). * Kimura et al. (2003) H. Kimura, M. Kofu,
Y. Matsumoto, and K. Hirota, Phys. Rev. Lett. **91**, 067002 (2003). *
Kofu et al. (2005) M. Kofu, H. Kimura, and K. Hirota, Phys. Rev. B
**72**, 064502 (2005). * Abrikosov and Gor’kov (1961) A. A. Abrikosov
and L. P. Gor’kov, Sov. Phys. JETP **12**, 1243 (1961); M. Tinkham,
_Introduction to Superconductivity_ (McGraw-Hill, New York, 1996). *
Xiao et al. (1990) G. Xiao, M. Z. Cieplak, and C. L. Chien, Phys. Rev. B
**42**, 240 (1990). * Yamagata et al. (2003) H. Yamagata, H. Miyamoto,
K. Nakamura, M. Matsumura, and Y. Itoh, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **72**, 1768
(2003). * Panagopoulos et al. (2004) C. Panagopoulos, A. P. Petrovic, A.
D. Hillier, J. L. Tallon, C. A. Scott, and B. D. Rainford, Phys. Rev. B
**69**, 144510 (2004). * Uemura et al. (1993) Y. J. Uemura, A. Karen, L.
P. Le, G. M. Luke, W. D. Wu, Y. Kubo, T. Manako, Y. Shimakawa, M.
Subramanian, J. L. Cobb, and J. T. Market, Nature (London) **365**, 805
(1993). * Niedermayer et al. (1993) Ch. Niedermayer, C. Bernhard, U.
Binninger, H. Gluckler, J. L. Tallon, E. J. Ansaldo, and J. I. Budnick,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **71**, 1764 (1993). * Shirane et al. (2002) G.
Shirane, S. M. Shapiro, and J. M. Tranquada, _Neutron Scattering with a
Triple Axis Spectrometer_ (Cambridge University Press, Cambridge,
England, 2002).
