Line nodes in the energy gap of superconducting BaFe₂(As_(1 − x)P_(x))₂
single crystals as seen via penetration depth and thermal conductivity

K. Hashimoto,^(1, 2) M. Yamashita,¹ S. Kasahara,³ Y. Senshu,¹ N.
Nakata,¹ S. Tonegawa,¹ K. Ikada,¹ A. Serafin,² A. Carrington,² T.
Terashima,³ H. Ikeda,¹ T. Shibauchi,¹ and Y. Matsuda¹

¹Department of Physics, Kyoto University, Sakyo-ku, Kyoto 606-8502,
Japan

²H. H. Wills Physics Laboratory, University of Bristol, Tyndall Avenue,
Bristol, United Kingdom

³Research Center for Low Temperature and Materials Sciences, Kyoto
University, Sakyo-ku, Kyoto 606-8501, Japan

Received 13 May 2010; published 1 June 2010

###### Abstract

We report magnetic penetration depth and thermal-conductivity data for
high-quality single crystals of BaFe₂(As_(1 − x)P_(x))₂(T=30 K) which
provide strong evidence that this material has line nodes in its energy
gap. This is distinctly different from the nodeless gap found for
(Ba,K)Fe₂As₂ which has similar T_(c) and phase diagram. Our results
indicate that repulsive electronic interactions play an essential role
for Fe-based high-T_(c) superconductivity but that uniquely there are
distinctly different pairing states, with and without nodes, which have
comparable T_(c).

pacs: 10.1103/PhysRevB.81.220501 [PACS number(s)] 74.70.Xa, 74.20.Rp,
74.25.N-, 74.25.F- The most important question concerning the Fe-based
high-temperature superconductors [1] is what is the interaction that
glues the electrons into Cooper pairs. Conventional phonon-mediated
pairing leads to the superconducting gap opening all over the Fermi
surface, while unconventional pairing mechanisms, such as spin
fluctuations, can lead to a gap which has opposite signs on some regions
of the Fermi surface. The sign change is a result of the anisotropic
pairing interaction which is repulsive in some momentum directions. In
high-T_(c) cuprate superconductors, where the electronic structure is
essentially described by a single quasi-two-dimensional Fermi surface,
the sign change in order parameter inevitably produces line nodes in the
gap function. In Fe pnictides, however, the Fermi surface has
disconnected hole and electron sheets and so the condition for a
sign-changing gap can be fulfilled without nodes. In fact, a simple
picture based on spin fluctuations predicts a distinct type of
unconventional order parameter with sign change between the sheets,
known as an s_(±) state. [2, 3] In this case, each Fermi surface is
fully gapped, preventing low-energy excitation of quasiparticles.

Many experimental studies of high-T_(c) Fe-arsenides indicate a fully
gapped superconducting state. [1, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9] However, some
measurements have suggested the existence of low-lying quasiparticle
excitations [10, 11, 10] which is consistent with a strongly disordered
fully gapped s_(±) or a nodal state. [7, 12, 13] Strong evidence for gap
nodes in the clean limit has been reported for LaFePO. [14, 15, 16]
However, this material has a low T_(c) and has no nearby magnetic phases
and so it is unclear whether it is representative of the higher-T_(c)
Fe-based superconductors.

Recently, high-quality single crystals of the isovalent pnictogen
substituted system BaFe₂(As_(1 − x)P_(x))₂ with T_(c) as high as 30 K
have been grown. [17] As with the electron- and hole-doped materials,
superconductivity with similar maximum T_(c) appears in close proximity
to the spin-density-wave phase boundary (x= 0.3), where the presence of
the strong antiferromagnetic fluctuations has been detected by NMR
measurements. [9, 18] It has been suggested from the spin-fluctuations
theory [3] that the superconducting gap structure can depend sensitively
on the pnictogen height from the Fe plane. The substitution of P for As
reduces this pnictogen height, [17] which is not the case for the hole
doping by K substitution for Ba. A comparison of the gap structure in
BaFe₂(As_(1 − x)P_(x))₂ and (Ba,K)Fe₂As₂ with similar T_(c) should then
give important insight into the pairing mechanism of high-T_(c)
superconductivity in Fe pnictides.

Here we report low-temperature measurements of the magnetic penetration
depth λ and thermal conductivity κ in high-quality crystals of
BaFe₂(As_(1 − x)P_(x))₂(x=0.33) with optimum T_(c)=30 K. Both λ and κ
are particularly good probes of the gap structure of superconductors. λ
is related to the superfluid density n_(_(x))∝², whose temperature
dependence is directly determined by the gap function. κ probes
low-energy delocalized quasiparticles carrying entropy, which extend
over the whole crystal. Both measurements probe the bulk superconducting
properties. Our results provide strong evidence for line nodes in the
energy gap in this system. The presence of nodes is in sharp contrast to
the fully gapped superconducting state deduced from similar measurements
of (Ba,K)Fe₂As₂ having similar T_(c), and points toward a electronic
repulsive pairing interaction in high-T_(c) Fe-pnictide superconductors.

Our BaFe₂(As_(0.65)P_(0.33))₂ crystals were grown using a self-flux
method [17] and were characterized using x-ray diffraction and energy
dispersion. No impurity phases were detected within experimental limits
of ≈1

Figure 2(a) shows the normalized change in the penetration depth
Δλ(T)/λ(0) in BaFe₂(As_(0.67)P_(0.33))₂, compared with previous results
for a clean (Ba_(0.45)K_(0.55))Fe₂As₂ crystal.[7] In sharp contrast to
the flat behavior observed in the K-doped crystal, Δ(T) in the
P-substituted crystal exhibits a strong quasilinear temperature
dependence at low temperatures. The T-linear dependence of Δλ(T) is a
strong indication of line nodes in the superconducting gap. The
normalized superfluid density λ²(0)/λ²(T) in Fig. 2(b) also clearly
demonstrates the fundamental difference between P- and K-doped samples.
The low-temperature data of BaFe₂(As_(0.67)P_(0.33))₂ can be fitted to
1 − α(T/T_(c))^(n) with the exponent n =1.13(±0.05) close to unity. This
is completely incompatible with the flat exponential dependence observed
in the fully gapped superconductors, and immediately indicates low-lying
quasiparticle excitations in this system. This behavior is fundamentally
different from the power-law dependence of superfluid density with
powers varying n ∼ 2.0 to ∼ 2.4 found for other Fe arsenides.[7; 10; 11]
In the fully gapped unconventional s_(z) state, it has been suggested
that substantial impurity scattering may induce in-gap states that
change the exponential superfluid density to a power-law dependence but
the exponent is expected to be not smaller than ∼ 2.[12; 13] However,
the present results with exponent significantly smaller than 2 and much
closer to 1 as expected for clean superconductors with line nodes,
cannot be explained by these modifications of a full-gap state but is
indicative of well-developed line nodes in the gap. We note that our
data do not exclude the possibility that some of the bands being fully
gapped. Indeed, the higher-temperature behavior of the superfluid
density is different to that expected for a single band with line nodes
and instead suggests that some sheets of Fermi surface have a maximum
gap below the weak-coupling value, as was found for MgB₂.[21]

The fact that the experimental value of n is slightly larger than unity
may result from impurity scattering. In the limit of high levels of
disorder, a general gap with line nodes gives Δλ(T) ∼ T², and the
following formula is often used to interpolate between the clean and
dirty limits, Δλ(T) ≈ T²/(T + T^(*)).[22] The disorder parameter T^(*)
is related to the impurity band width γ₀. If we use this formula to fit
our data [solid line in Fig. 2(b)], we get T^(*) = 1.3 K = 0.04T_(c),
which shows we are close to the clean nodal limit. A small
variable-sized upturn in Δλ(T) is observed at the lowest temperatures
[inset of Fig. 2(b)]. This probably originates from amounts (on the
order of 0.1

Figure 1: (Color online) Relative change in the electronic specific heat
ΔC/T of single crystal BaFe₂(As_(0.67)P_(0.33))₂ measured using an ac
technique under magnetic fields applied along the c axis. A smooth
background determined from an extrapolation of the 14 T data has been
subtracted. Temperature dependence of the in-plane resistivity ρ of a
crystal from the same batch is also shown. Inset shows the upper
critical field H_(c)(T) determined from the midpoint of the
specific-heat jump at each field (closed circles) and the
irreversibility field measured by torque measurements (open square)
(Ref. [19]). The dashed line is a fit to the
Wertharmer-Helfand-Hohenberg formula.

Figure 2: (Color online) (a) The change Δλ(T) = λ(T) − λ(0) in the
penetration depth of BaFe₂(As_(0.67)P_(0.33))₂ along with the data for
(Ba_(0.45)K_(0.55))Fe₂As₂ (T_(c) = 33 K) (Ref. [7]). Inset compares the
results obtained by the microwave and rf techniques. (b) Normalized
superfluid density λ²(0)/λ²(T) as a function of T/T_(c). The data follow
a T-linear dependence (dashed line) down to T/T_(c) ∼ 0.05. The
deviation at lower T/T_(c) can be fitted to the dependence for a gap
with line nodes with disorder (solid line). The upper inset is the data
up to T_(c). The tail near T_(c) in (Ba_(0.45)K_(0.55))Fe₂As₂ is due to
the skin effect at microwave frequencies (Ref. [7]). The lower inset
shows Δλ(T) at low temperatures in two samples (shifted vertically for
clarity).

the existence of low-lying quasiparticle excitations.

Thermal conductivity also provides a probe for the presence of line
nodes. First we address the temperature dependence of κ/T in zero field
[Fig. 3(a)]. In hole-doped (Ba_(0.75)K_(0.25))Fe₂As₂,[8]κ/T is nearly
identical to the phonon contribution κ_(μμ)(T) obtained from
nonsuperconducting BaFe₂As₂,[25] consistent with fully gapped
superconductivity in which very few quasiparticles are excited at
T≪T_(c). In spite of similar values of residual electrical resistivity
in the normal state,[17, 8] the magnitude of κ/T in
BaFe₂(As_(0.67)P_(0.13))₂ is strongly enhanced from that in
(Ba_(0.75)K_(0.25))Fe₂As₂. At low temperature, the data are well fitted
by κ/T=σT⁺+β. The presence of a sizeable residual value b =25 mW/K² m is
clearly resolved.

It has been shown that the quasiparticle thermal conductivity in
superconductors with sign-changing line nodes is given by

κ/T = κ₀/T(1 + O[T²/γ₀²])
(1)

in the range k_(B)T<γ₀, where γ₀ is the impurity bandwidth.[24] In this
case, κ₀/T is independent of the impurity content and depends only on
the Fermi-surface parameters and the slope of the gap near the nodes. A
rough estimation using parameters for the present material gives κ₀/T ≈
22 mW/K² m,[25] which reasonably coincides with the observed value. The
T² term in Eq. (1) arises from the thermally excited quasiparticles
around the nodes. For BaFe₂(As_(0.67)P_(0.33))₂, we find that this term
is one order of magnitude larger than κ_(μμ)/T. Recently calculations of
κ(T) for various candidate gap functions for the Fe-based
superconductors have been reported by Mishra _et al.[26]_ For the s_(⊥)
state without sign-changing nodes a sizeable value of κ₀/T is predicted
only for very strong pair-breaking scattering (with accompanying strong
reduction in T_(c)) which is incompatible with the low value of T⁺ found
in the λ(T) measurements. For the case of sign-changing nodes in one or
more of the Fermi-surface sheets a sizeable κ₀/T is predicted in the low
scattering limit, which is consistent with our experimental results.

Next we discuss the field dependence of κ₀/T, which is another
independent test of the gap structure. The most distinguished feature in
Fig. 3(b) is that κ₀(H)/T increases steeply at low fields and attains
nearly 70

The present results, (i) the T-linear penetration depth, (ii) the large
value of κ₀/T at zero field, (iii) the T² dependence of κ/T, and (iv)
the $\sqrt{H}$ field dependence of κ/T, all indicate that sign-changing
line nodes exist in the gap function of BaFe₂(As_(0.67)P_(0.33))₂. An
important question is then to answer how distinctly different gap
structures (with and without nodes) can exist in a BaFe₂As₂-based family
of Fe pnictides and have comparable transition temperatures. Although
the Fermi-surface topology is similar in these two systems,[17, 30, 19]
slight differences in the size and corrugation of hole surfaces may give
rise to the dramatic change in the nodal topology. One possibility is
that both systems have a _nodal_s-wave gap function but that the nodes
in the electron band are lifted by disorder in the K-doped system.[31]
However, as these K- and P-doped samples have very similar normal-state
residual resistivities[8, 17] as well as similar enhancements in the
micro

Figure 3: (Color online) (a) Thermal conductivity divided by temperature
κ/T is plotted against T² at zero field (main panel) and on a linear T
axis (inset). The solid lines are the fit to the T² dependence. The
reported data of (Ba_(0.75)K_(0.25))Fe₂As₂ (T_(c) = 30 K) (Ref. [8]) and
the phonon contribution estimated in BaFe₂As₂ (Ref. [23]) are also
shown. (b) Residual κ₀(H)/T vs H/H_(c2). Also shown are the results for
Tl₂BaCuO_(6 + δ) (Ref. [27]), (Ba_(0.75)K_(0.25))Fe₂As₂ (Ref. [8]), and
Nb (Ref. [28]). The gradual increase in κ(H)/T in
(Ba_(0.75)K_(0.25))Fe₂As₂ has been attributed to the slight modulation
of the gap value (Ref. [8]). Inset shows the same data in
BaFe₂(As_(0.67)P_(0.33))₂ plotted against (H/H_(c2))¹². The line
represents the $\sqrt{H}$ dependence.

wave conductivity below T_(c)[32] this suggests that they have similar
levels of disorder, which makes this scenario unlikely. According to
band-structure calculations,[3] the orbital character of one of the hole
sheets is very sensitive to the pnictogen height which changes as As is
substituted by P. This can cause significant changes in the
spin-fluctuation spectrum and hence can change the pairing state.[3]
This is consistent with the observation of a nodal pairing state in the
Fe-phosphide superconductor LaFePO.[14, 15, 16] However, the nodal gap
functions are expected to give a much lower T_(c) (as in LaFePO where
T_(c)∼ 6 K) (Ref. [3]) so the high T_(c) of BaFe₂(As¹⁻P_(x))₂ remains
puzzling. A recent theory suggested that a competition between orbital
and spin fluctuations may lead to line nodes,[33] which needs further
investigations.

In summary, from the penetration depth and heat transport measurements,
we demonstrate that the high-T_(c) superconductor
BaFe₂(As_(0.67)P_(0.33))₂ has sign-changing line nodes, in sharp
contrast to other Fe-based superconductors which appear to have a fully
gapped pairing state. The presence of nodes is strong evidence for a
repulsive pairing interaction such as that provided by antiferromagnetic
spin fluctuations. Understanding the microscopic origin of these
different behaviors remains a challenge for a complete theory of
superconductivity in these materials.

We thank H. Takeya and K. Hirata for the early-stage collaboration on
the crystal growth, and K. Ishida, H. Kontani, K. Kuroki, and R.
Prozorov for helpful discussion. This work is partially supported by
KAKENHI, Grant-in-Aid for GCOE program "The Next Generation of Physics,
Spun from Universality and Emergence" from MEXT, Japan, and EPSRC in the
U.K.

## References

* [1] K. Ishida, Y. Nakai, and H. Hosono, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **78**,
062001 (2009). * [2] I. I. Mazin, D. J. Singh, M. D. Johannes, and M. H.
Du, Phys. Rev. Lett. **101**, 057003 (2008). * [3] K. Kuroki, H. Usui,
S. Onari, R. Arita, and H. Aoki, Phys. Rev. B **79**, 224511 (2009). *
[4] K. Hashimoto, T. Shibauchi, T. Kato, K. Ikada, R. Okazaki, H.
Shishido, M. Ishikado, H. Kito, A. Iyo, H. Eisaki, S. Shamoto, and Y.
Matsuda, Phys. Rev. Lett. **102**, 017002 (2009). * [5] L. Malone, J. D.
Fletcher, A. Serafin, A. Carrington, N. D. Zhigadlo, Z. Bukowski, S.
Katrych, and J. Karpinski, Phys. Rev. B **79**, 140501(R) (2009). * [6]
H. Ding, P. Richard, K. Nakayama, K. Sugawara, T. Arakane, Y. Sekiba, A.
Takayama, S. Souma, T. Sato, T. Takahashi, Z. Wang, X. Dai, Z. Fang, G.
F. Chen, J. L. Luo, and N. L. Wang, EPL **83**, 47001 (2008). * [7] K.
Hashimoto, T. Shibauchi, S. Kasahara, K. Ikada, S. Tonegawa, T. Kato, R.
Okazaki, C. J. van der Beek, M. Konczykowski, H. Takeya, K. Hirata, T.
Terashima, and Y. Matsuda, Phys. Rev. Lett. **102**, 207001 (2009). *
[8] X. Luo, M. Tanatar, J. Reid, H. Shakeripour, N. Doironleyraud, N.
Ni, S. Budko, P. Canfield, H. Luo, Z. Wang, H. Wen, R. Prozorov, and L.
Taillefer, Phys. Rev. B **80**, 140503(R) (2009). * [9] M. Yashima, H.
Nishimura, H. Mukuda, Y. Kitaoka, K. Miyazawa, P. Shirage, K. Kiho, H.
Kito, H. Eisaki, and A. Iyo, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **78**, 103702 (2009). *
[10] R. T. Gordon, C. Martin, H. Kim, N. Ni, M. A. Tanatar, J.
Schmalian, I. I. Mazin, S. L. Budko, P. C. Canfield, and R. Prozorov,
Phys. Rev. B **79**, 100506(R) (2009). * [11] C. Martin, R. T. Gordon,
M. A. Tanatar, H. Kim, N. Ni, S. L. Budko, P. C. Canfield, H. Luo, H. H.
Wen, Z. Wang, A. B. Vorontsov, V. G. Kogan, and R. Prozorov, Phys. Rev.
B **80**, 020501(R) (2009). * [12] A. B. Vorontsov, M. G. Vavilov, and
A. V. Chubukov, Phys. Rev. B **79**, 140507(R) (2009). * [13] Y. Bang,
EPL **86**, 47001 (2009). * [14] J. D. Fletcher, A. Serafin, L. Malone,
J. G. Analytis, J. H. Chu, A. S. Erickson, I. R. Fisher, and A.
Carrington, Phys. Rev. Lett. **102**, 147001 (2009). * [15] C. Hicks, T.
Lippman, M. Huber, J. Analytis, J. Chu, A. Erickson, I. Fisher, and K.
Moler, Phys. Rev. Lett. **103**, 127003 (2009). * [16] M. Yamashita, N.
Nakata, Y. Senshu, S. Tonegawa, K. Ikada, K. Hashimoto, H. Sugawara, T.
Shibauchi, and Y. Matsuda, Phys. Rev. B **80**, 220509(R) (2009). * [17]
S. Kasahara, T. Shibauchi, K. Hashimoto, K. Ikada, S. Tonegawa, R.
Okazaki, H. Ikeda, H. Takeya, K. Hirata, T. Terashima, and Y. Matsuda,
Phys. Rev. B **81**, 184519 (2010). * [18] Y. Nakai, T. Iye, S.
Kitagawa, K. Ishida, S. Kasahara, T. Shibauchi, Y. Matsuda, and T.
Terashima, Phys. Rev. B **81**, 020503(R) (2010). * [19] H. Shishido, A.
F. Bangura, A. I. Coldea, S. Tonegawa, K. Hashimoto, S. Kasahara, P. M.
C. Rourke, H. Ikeda, T. Terashima, R. Settai, Y. Onuki, D. Vignolles, C.
Proust, B. Vignolle, A. McCollam, Y. Matsuda, T. Shibauchi, and A.
Carrington, Phys. Rev. Lett. **104**, 057008 (2010). * [20] C. Bernhard
_et al._ (unpublished). * [21] J. D. Fletcher, A. Carrington, O. J.
Taylor, S. M. Kazakov, and J. Karpinski, Phys. Rev. Lett. **95**, 097005
(2005). * [22] P. J. Hirschfeld and N. Goldenfeld, Phys. Rev. B **48**,
4219 (1993). * [23] N. Kurita, F. Ronning, C. F. Miclea, E. D. Bauer, J.
D. Thompson, A. S. Sefat, M. A. McGuire, B. C. Sales, D. Mandrus, and R.
Movshovich, Phys. Rev. B **79**, 214439 (2009). * [24] M. J. Graf, S.-K.
Yip, J. A. Sauls, and D. Rainer, Phys. Rev. B **53**, 15147 (1996). *
[25]κ₀/T is estimated for a state with line nodes (Ref. [24]) on all
Fermi-surface sheets by
$\frac{\kappa_{0}}{T}=\frac{\pi\kappa_{0}^{2}}{3c^{2}\mu_{A}(0)\lambda_{2}}$,
where Δ₀ is the maximum gap amplitude which we take equal to
1.7k_(B)T_(c). * [26] V. Mishra, A. Vorontsov, P. J. Hirschfeld, and I.
Vekhter, Phys. Rev. B **80**, 224525 (2009). * [27] C. Proust, E.
Boaknin, R. W. Hill, L. Taillefer, and A. P. Mackenzie, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**89**, 147003 (2002). * [28] J. Lowell and J. B. Sousa, J. Low Temp.
Phys. **3**, 65 (1970). * [29] G. E. Volovik, JETP Lett. **58**, 469
(1993). * [30] H. Luo, Z. Wang, H. Yang, P. Cheng, X. Zhu, and H.-H.
Wen, Supercond. Sci. Technol. **21**, 125014 (2008). * [31] V. Mishra,
G. Boyd, S. Graser, T. Maier, P. J. Hirschfeld, and D. J. Scalapino,
Phys. Rev. B **79**, 094512 (2009). * [32] S. Tonegawa _et al._
(unpublished). * [33] H. Kontani and S. Onari, Phys. Rev. Lett. **104**,
157001 (2010).
