# Combined effects of pressure and Ru substitution on BaFe₂As₂

S. K. Kim,^(1, 2) M. S. Torikachvili,^(2, 3) E. Colombier,¹ A.
Thaler,^(1, 2) S. L. Bud’ko,^(1, 2) and P. C. Canfield^(1, 2)

¹Ames Laboratory, Iowa State University, Ames, Iowa 50011, USA

²Department of Physics and Astronomy, Iowa State University, Ames, Iowa
50011, USA

³Department of Physics, San Diego State University, San Diego,
California 92182, USA

Received 28 July 2011; revised manuscript received 19 September 2011;
published 18 October 2011

###### Abstract

The ab plane resistivity of Ba(Fe_(1 + x)Ru_(x))₂As₂ (x = 0.00, 0.09,
0.16, 0.21, and 0.28) was studied under nearly hydrostatic pressures, up
to 7.4 GPa, in order to explore the T − P phase diagram to compare the
combined effects of isoelectronic Ru substitution and pressure. The
parent compound BaFe₂As₂ exhibits a structural/magnetic phase transition
near 134 K. At ambient pressure, progressively increasing Ru
concentration suppresses this phase transition to lower temperatures at
an approximate rate of ∼5 K/

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.84.134525

PACS number(s): 74.62.Fj, 74.70.Xa, 75.30.Kz, 74.10.+v

## I Introduction

Many studies have investigated the effects of electron, hole, and
isovalent substitutions in the AEFe₂As₂ (AE = alkaline earth) system.[1,
2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11] For BaFe₂As₂, in some cases this
substitution causes the suppression of the structural/magnetic
transition temperature (T_(sm)) and the emergence of
superconductivity.[1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7] In other cases, such as
substitution of Cr or Mn for Fe, T_(sm) is suppressed without
superconductivity ever stabilizing.[5, 5] For the case of
Ba(Fe_(1 + x)Ru_(x))₂As₂, increasing the concentration of isovalent Ru
(Ref. [11]) reveals behavior similar to Co substitution[6] but without
introducing additional charge carriers into the system.[11, 12] Pressure
has also been used as an isoelectronic tuning mechanism.[13, 14, 15, 16,
17, 18, 19, 20, 21] As pressure is applied to these systems, T_(sm) is
suppressed gradually and disappears at a critical pressure P_(crit). The
superconducting temperature (T_(c)) reaches its maximum value and the
transition width is narrowed near P_(crit).[13, 22]

Although Ru substitution for Fe gives rise to an increase of the unit
cell volume, the c-lattice parameter and the ratio of the c-lattice
parameter to the a-lattice parameter (c/a) both decrease with increasing
Ru concentration.[11] Using pressure-dependent crystallographic data for
BaFe₂As₂,[23] it was shown by Thaler _et al.[11]_ that the ambient
pressure T − x phase diagram for Ba(Fe_(1 + x)Ru_(x))₂As₂ and T − P
phase diagram for BaFe₂As₂ manifest similar features and can be scaled
to each other[19] by creating a T versus c/a phase diagram. This scaling
is not universal, though: for BaFe₂(As_(1 + x)P_(x))₂, T_(sm) and T_(c)
scale better with changes in c than with changes in c/a.[11] In order to
better quantify and understand the similarities between the effects of
Ru substitution and pressure, we have determined the T − P phase
diagrams for multiple Ru substitution levels and explored the
possibility of a universal scaling between these isoelectronic tuning
mechanisms.

In addition, it is well known that the behavior of BaFe₂As₂ is sensitive
to pressure conditions.[13, 14, 15, 16] Pressure inhomogeneities
associated with nonhydrostatic conditions tend to decrease the pressure
needed to suppress T_(sm) and induce superconductivity. This sensitivity
causes discrepancies in the construction of the T − P phase diagram.
Therefore, conditions as close to hydrostatic as possible are necessary
for consistent results. In this study a piston-cylinder cell and a
modified Bridgman cell with appropriate liquid media were used to
measure the resistivity of Ba(Fe_(1 + x)Ru_(x))₂As₂ samples under
pressure. A maximum pressure of 7.4 GPa was achieved. Although parent
BaFe₂As₂ has already been measured several times under various pressure
conditions,[15, 16, 17] it was measured again under the same conditions
as the Ba(Fe_(1 + x)Ru_(x))₂As₂ samples in order to allow for more
reliable comparisons as well as to gauge the level of hydrostaticity of
the liquid medium. We find a remarkably simple scaling between pressure
and Ru substitution: 3 GPa of applied pressure affects the phase diagram
in a manner similar to 10

## II Experimental methods

All Ba(Fe_(1 + x)Ru_(x))₂As₂ single crystals measured in this study were
grown out of self-flux using the method described by Thaler _et al.[11]_

Electrical resistivity measurements under pressures of up to 2.3 GPa
were conducted using a piston cylinder pressure cell.[18, 19] Higher
pressures, up to 7.4 GPa, were achieved using a Bridgman cell that was
modified to work with liquid pressure media.[24] Both these cells were
designed to fit inside a Quantum Design Physical Properties Measurement
System (PPMS) which served as a variable-temperature station for the
temperature range between 1.8 and 300 K.

The piston-cylinder cell has a Be-Cu body with a center core made out of
tungsten carbide. The samples for this cell were cut into rectangles
with dimensions of approximately 1.5 × 0.3 × 0.1 mm³. Four Pt wires were
attached to the sample using Epotek H20E silver epoxy. The feedthrough
containing the sample, Manganin, and Pb manometers was inserted in a
polytetrafluoroethylene cup containing a 4 : 6 mixture of light mineral
oil and n-pentane, which served as the liquid pressure-transmitting
medium, unless otherwise stated. Pressure was applied at ambient
temperature with a hydraulic press using the Manganin as a reference
manometer. A calibrated Cernox sensor was attached to the body of the
cell for temperature measurements. At low temperatures the pressure was
determined from the superconducting temperature T_(c) of the Pb
manometer.[25] The cooling and warming rates were kept below 0.5 K/min,
which corresponded to a temperature lag between the sample and Cernox
sensor of less than 0.5 K at high temperatures and less than 0.1 K for
temperatures less than 70 K. Further details are already described
elsewhere.[19] Cooling data are shown in this work unless otherwise
stated.

The modified Bridgman cell has a Be-Cu body with opposing, nonmagnetic,
tungsten-carbide anvls. A 1 : 1 mixture of isopentane : n-pentane was
used as the liquid pressure-transmitting medium. Although we determined
that this liquid medium has a higher hydrostatic limit of 6.5 GPa
(hydrostatic limit being defined as the pressure at which the medium
begins to solidify at ambient temperature) (see Appendix) than
Fluorinert mixtures,[26; 27; 28; 29] it also has a higher
compressibility, which means lower maximum pressures can be achieved
without changes to critical cell dimensions. Moreover, there was a
higher rate of failure for the wires within the sample chamber when
using the isopentane : n-pentane mixture, where a wire within the cell
would break or a contact on the sample would be lost. Despite these
difficulties, the higher hydrostatic limit made it preferable over other
liquid media (e.g., Fluorinert mixtures with hydrostatic limits in the
1 − 2 GPa range). For the Bridgman cell, samples were cleaved and cut
into approximately 700 × 150 × 30μm³ and four 12.5 μm-diameter gold
wires were spot welded onto the sample to create electrical contacts for
standard four-probe measurements. The pressure within the cell was
determined using the superconducting temperature T_(c) of Pb.[25] For
these cells, the difference between the pressure at room temperature and
at low temperature was previously determined to be less than 0.1
GPa.[22] For all Bridgman cell measurements, data were taken while
warming from base temperatures. For T < 35 K data were taken after the
temperature was stabilized at each point, ensuring a minimal thermal
gradient between the cell and the sample. For measurements above 35 K,
the cell was warmed at a rate of 0.5 K/min, which leads to a maximum
temperature lag of approximately 1.2 K.[22] Only warming data are shown
in this work.

Due to the small dimensions of the samples used in the Bridgman cell,
resistivity values can have errors of up to 50

Figure 1 shows the T − x phase diagram for Ba(Fe_(1 − x)Ru_(x))₂As₂.[11]
The open symbols indicate the Ru concentrations that were chosen for
this study in order to explore the low-x and optimal-x regions of the
phase diagram. The criteria for T_(c) are shown in Fig. 2(b). The onset
T_(c) was taken as the intersection of the extrapolated lines seen in
the inset of Fig. 2(b). The temperature at which the resistivity reaches
zero, as seen in Fig. 2(b), is denoted as T_(c, ρ = 0).

Strain-induced, granular or filamentary superconductivity is known to
occur in many of the AEF₂As₂ systems.[19; 21; 30; 31] To gauge the
impact of this effect on the superconducting phase transition,
current-dependent resistivity measurements were done at various
pressures. Figure 3 shows two such measurements. At 3.64 GPa [Fig. 3(a)]
only the onset of the superconducting transition is seen and there is a
definite dependence on the applied current, which suggests that granular
or filamentary superconductivity is responsible for the resistance
decrease. At 6.21 GPa [Fig. 3(b)] this current dependent behavior is
less prominent but still seen during the superconducting transition. The
difference in the zero resistivity temperature of the superconducting
transition between 0.01 and 1 mA of applied current is ∼3 K. Based on
the assumption that the effects of granular or filamentary
superconductivity will be suppressed by higher current densities, a 1 mA
current was used for all measurements.

## III Results

### BaFe₂As₂

Previous pressure measurements of BaFe₂As₂ with a modified Bridgman cell
have been reported[13; 15] using a Fluorinert (FC) mixture of 1 : 1 FC70
and FC77 as the liquid pressure-transmitting medium. The hydrostatic
limit for this medium is ∼1 GPa;[28] thus an additional,
poorly-controlled, small, uniaxial stress component was likely present
at higher

Figure 1: (Color online) T − x phase diagram for
Ba(Fe_(1 − x)Ru_(x))₂As₂.[11] Open symbols indicate the Ru
concentrations that were studied under pressure.

pressures. Due to the sensitivity of BaFe₂As₂ to uniaxial stress, a
different liquid medium, a 1 : 1 mixture of isopentane : _n_-pentane,
with a higher hydrostatic limit of 6.5 GPa (see Appendix) was used in
this study.

Two samples of BaFe₂As₂ were measured using the Bridgman cell: one
measured up to 5.32 GPa (Fig. 2) and the other up to 6.71 GPa (not
shown). The ambient pressure resistivity of BaFe₂As₂ decreases upon
cooling. At ∼134 K, the sample undergoes a structural/magnetic
transition where it converts from a high-temperature, tetragonal,
paramagnet to a low-temperature, orthorhombic, antiferromagnet. As
pressure is applied, the resistivity decreases and the
structural/magnetic transition moves to lower temperatures and broadens.
In addition, a small downturn arises at low temperature as a precursor
to the superconducting transition. This increasingly kinklike feature is
reminiscent of the pressure-induced, granular or filamentary,
superconducting behavior seen in SrFe₂As₂[13] and CaFe₂As₂.[19] A
current-dependent resistivity measurement at 3.64 GPa [Fig. 3(a)]
suggests that superconductivity in a small fraction of the sample, most
likely due to internal strains, precedes the occurrence of a more robust
superconducting state when ρ(T) is much less sensitive to the excitation
current, as shown in Fig. 3(b).

The resistive feature associated with the structural/magnetic transition
is gradually suppressed with pressure but still persists at the maximum
pressure achieved (6.4 GPa), even with the emergence of a finite
T_(c, ρ = 0) at ∼5 GPa. The structural/magnetic transition temperatures
for BaFe₂As₂ were taken as the maximum of the derivative of the
resistivity, as seen in the inset of Fig. 2(a). The general form of the
phase diagram is not very dependent on the hydrostaticity of the
pressure; however, the features in the phase diagram shift toward higher
pressure as hydrostaticity is improved.[13, 14, 15, 16, 17] The
resulting phase diagram for pure BaFe₂As₂ using the isopentane :
_n_-pentane mixture is shown in Fig. 4. The phase diagrams for the two
separate measurements show qualitatively similar behavior, with a
quantitative shift of about 1.5 GPa in the transition temperatures at
the highest pressures for run 2. Unfortunately, it is these last three
highest-pressure data points that are associated with manometer
inconsistencies that may be associated with overestimating the actual
pressure

Figure 3: (Color online) Resistivity measurements of BaFe₂As₂ with
applied currents of 0.01, 0.1, and 1 mA at (a) 3.64 GPa and (b) 6.21
GPa.

Figure 2: (Color online) Temperature dependence of the resistivity of
BaFe₂As₂ for pressures up to 5.32 GPa measured using the modified
Bridgman cell. (a) Measurements are shown for temperatures up to 300 K.
Inset shows criteria used for the determination of $T_{\rm sim}$. (b)
Same measurements shown for temperatures up to 70 K with criterion used
for T_(c, ρ = 0). Inset shows the criterion used for T_(c, ρ = 0).

experienced by the sample. The phase diagram presented in Fig. 4 is in
qualitative agreement with previous measurements of BaFe₂As₂ under
pressure in a Bridgman cell using the Fluorinher mixture [22] but with
all transition temperatures shifted to higher pressures for the
isopentane : _n_-pentane mixture.

### Ba(Fe_(0.91)Ru_(0.09))₂As₂

As shown in Fig. 4, for pure BaFe₂As₂ superconductivity is just being
stabilized in the _P_∼ 5 GPa range, while the resistive signature of the
structural/magnetic transition remains visible up to our highest
measured pressures. For the first Ru concentration in this study we
chose x = 0.09, which has no bulk superconductivity and an approximately
35 K suppression of _T_sm (∼98 K) from that of the parent BaFe₂As₂
(_T_sm = 134 K).

Two samples of Ba(Fe_(0.91)Ru_(0.09))₂As₂ were measured: one with the
piston cylinder cell up to 1.83 GPa and another with the Bridgman cell
up to 4.94 GPa (Fig. 5). Figure 5 shows the effects of pressure on the
resistivity of Ba(Fe_(0.91)Ru_(0.09))₂As₂ samples.

With increasing pressure _T_sm is gradually suppressed to lower
temperatures and granular or filamentary superconductivity develops and
gradually shorts out more of the sample. When zero resistivity is
achieved, with 3.16 GPa of pressure a small feature due to the
structural/magnetic transition can still be observed, suggesting that
the suppression of the structural/magnetic transition is not complete.
Further pressure increase almost completely suppressed the transition
and increased _T_c,_o=0 to a value of 25.7 K at _P_crit = 4.94 GPa. The
superconducting transition width also decreased with pressure. At this
critical pressure there is no measurable current dependence of the
resistivity curve, suggesting the development of bulk superconductivity.
As will be seen for higher Ru substitutions, these features are
consistent with _P_crit 5 GPa for this sample.

A phase diagram constructed from these measurements can be seen in Fig.
6. For all Ru-substituted samples measured, _T_sm was taken as the
minimum of the resistivity derivative. Error bars were taken as the full
width at half maximum where possible, typically when the
structural/magnetic transition was far removed from the superconducting
transition. When _T_c $T_{\rm sm}$ and effectively truncates the
lower-temperature part of the _d_r/_dT_ curve, twice the half width at
half maximum was used. An example of these criteria can be seen in Figs.
5(c)

Figure 4: (Color online) T − P phase diagram for two sets of
measurements of BaFe₂As₂ using the Bridgman cell. The isopentane :
_n_-pentane mixture was used as the liquid pressure-transmitting medium
for both measurements.

Figure 5: (Color online) Temperature dependence of the resistivity of
Ba(Fe_(0.91)Ru_(0.09))₂As₂ up to 1.83 and 4.94 GPa using a piston
cylinder cell and a Bridgman cell, respectively. (a) Shown for
temperatures up to 300 K. The 0.66, 1.50, and 1.83 GPa measurements have
been shifted down by 0.035, 0.045, and 0.06 mCm, respectively, for
clarity. (b) Shown for temperatures up to 35 K. (c) and (d) Criteria
used to determine _T_sm and their corresponding error bars.

and 5(d). As $T_{\rm sm}$ is suppressed, the minimum of dρ/dT, which was
used to determine $T_{\rm sm}$, becomes broader and, near
$P_{\rm crit}$, becomes indistinguishable from the onset of T_(c). The
phase diagram shows a consistent qualitative behavior with $T_{\rm sm}$
decreasing with pressure and a superconducting T_(c) dome arising at
higher pressures; the addition of x = 0.09 Ru simply shifts
$P_{\rm crit}$ and the superconducting dome to lower pressures.

### Ba(Fe_(0.84)Ru_(0.16))₂As₂

Measurements of ρ(T, P) were carried out on three samples of
Ba(Fe_(0.84)Ru_(0.16))₂As₂: one with the piston cylinder cell up to 2.30
GPa and two with the Bridgman cell with maximum pressures of 1.57 and
4.97 GPa. As shown in Fig. 1, Ba(Fe_(0.84)Ru_(0.16))₂As₂ also resides on
the low-x side of the T − x phase diagram, but with a further reduction
of the structural/magnetic phase transition and much closer proximity to
the superconducting dome. Ambient pressure resistivity measurement (Fig.
7) of Ba(Fe_(0.84)Ru_(0.16))₂As₂ shows both the structural/magnetic
transition as well as the onset of superconductivity. Added pressure
decreases $T_{\rm sm}$ and a finite T_(c, ρ = 0) is achieved with 1.57
GPa of pressure. A maximum T_(c, ρ = 0) of 23 K is achieved with 3.57
GPa, and the narrowest superconducting transition width is realized at
4.09 GPa with a T_(c, ρ = 0) of 22.9 K and width of ΔT_(c) ∼ 0.4 K. At
4.09 GPa the structural/magnetic transition has all but disappeared.
Further pressure increase causes the structural/magnetic transition to
disappear completely, a decrease in T_(c), and a broadening of the
superconducting transition.

For the low-pressure piston cylinder cell measurements the
structural/magnetic transition at 0.5 GPa is broader than at 0.9 GPa and
$T_{c,\rm onset}$ is also higher. One possible cause of this is that the
first pressurization could have caused strains in the sample due to a
small increase in pressure from constrictions and contractions of the
cell from the first cooling and warming of the cell. Of greater concern
is the fact that there are noticeable differences between measurements
done in the piston cylinder and the Bridgman cell. For the 1.53 and 2.30
GPa measurements from the piston-cylinder cell and 1.57 and 2.41 GPa
measurements from the Bridgman cell, the corresponding sets of the
temperature-dependent resistivity data overlap well from room
temperature down to ∼150 K, below which the resistivity of the sample in
the Bridgman cell is suppressed much faster. Furthermore, in this
pressure range the Bridgman cell measurements manifest a sharp
superconducting transition, whereas for the piston cylinder cell the
transition is wider and does not reach ρ = 0, even at the base
temperature of 1.8 K. In addition, the $T_{c,\rm onset}$ values are
consistently lower in the piston cylinder cell than in the Bridgman
cell, and the rate of suppression of $T_{\rm sm}$ is smaller in the
piston cylinder cell. These differences suggest a slight disparity in
the degree of hydrostaticity between the piston cylinder cell with the
light mineral oil : n-pentane mixture and the Bridgman cell using the
isopentane : n-pentane mixture. In the x = 0.09 Ru measurements, these
differences were also seen, although smaller. Despite these
discrepancies, the combined phase diagram shown in Fig. 8 demonstrates
rather good agreement between measurements taken with these two cells.

Figure 6: (Color online) T − P phase diagram for measurements of
Ba(Fe_(0.91)Ru_(0.09))₂As₂. Open and solid symbols indicate measurements
using the piston cylinder cell and the modified Bridgman cell,
respectively.

Figure 7: (Color online) Temperature dependence of the resistivity of
Ba(Fe_(0.84)Ru_(0.16))₂As₂ up to 2.30 and 4.97 GPa measured using the
piston cylinder cell and the modified Bridgman cell, respectively. (a)
Shown for temperatures up to 300 K. (b) Shown for temperatures up to 30
K.

### Ba(Fe0.79Ru0.21)2As2

Ba(Fe0.79Ru0.21)2As2 is very close to the optimal Ru concentration (see
Fig. 1). At higher Ru concentrations the homogeneity of the Ru
substitution starts to vary within the batch of samples, as reported by
Thaler _et al_. [11] Figure 9 shows the results of resistivity
measurements for the samples used in the piston cylinder cell and the
Bridgman cell for pressures up to 1.12 and 7.39 GPa, respectively, both
using the isopentane : _n_-pentane mixture. At ambient pressure,
Ba(Fe0.79Ru0.21)2As2 samples show a coexistence of both the
structural/magnetic transition and superconductivity. The ambient
pressure T_(c) for the two samples used in the cells differs by ∼1 K. A
maximum T_(c, ρ = 0) of 20.3 K was achieved with only 2.27 GPa and also
has the narrowest transition width at this pressure. Further pressure
increases causes the suppression of T_(c) and a widening of the
transition width.

The phase diagram for Ba(Fe0.79Ru0.21)2As2 is shown in Fig. 10.
$T_{\rm sm}$ in the piston cylinder cell (P < 1.2 GPa) is only weakly
affected by pressure, whereas by P = 2.27 GPa (the first finite pressure
in the Bridgman cell) $T_{\rm sm}$ was significantly decreased. As with
other substitution levels, T_(c)(P) forms a domelike region, with the
highest and sharpest T_(c) found near $P_{\rm crit}=3.28$ GPa.

### Ba(Fe0.72Ru0.28)2As2

Ba(Fe0.72Ru0.28)2As2, having optimal Ru concentration, shows no
structural/magnetic transition at ambient pressure, and the
superconducting transition is relatively sharp, with T_(c) ∼ 16 K and
the transition width ΔT_(c) ∼ 0.7 K. Added pressure marginally increases
$T_{c,\rm onset}$ and in fact widens the transition width as
T_(c, ρ = 0) decreases, as shown in Figs. 11 and 12. The superconducting
onset and zero resistivity temperatures show very little scatter
compared to low-pressure measurements on the other Ru-substituted
samples.

## IV Discussion

Previous pressure studies have shown that BaFe2As2 and related compounds
are sensitive to the degree of nonhydrostaticity of the pressurized
environment. [15, 16, 17] Empirically, increasingly hydrostatic
environments move $T_{\rm sm}$ and T_(c) to higher pressures on the
T − P phase diagram. Having the pressure-transmitting medium still be a
liquid at room temperature when pressure is increased reduces the degree
of uniaxial stress on the sample. In such cases any nonhydrostaticity is
caused upon cooling and warming by the differential thermal contractions
of the various components of the cell below the
vitrification/solidification temperature (the temperature below which
the liquid medium changes into a glass or solid).

For measurements taken with the piston cylinder cell, the
superconducting onsets were broader and more rounded than those taken
with the Bridgman cell. This is expected since the samples for the
piston cylinder cell were typically twice as long as those for the
Bridgman cell. Longer samples are

Figure 8: (Color online) T − P phase diagram for measurements of
Ba(Fe0.84Ru0.16)2As2. Open and solid symbols indicate measurements using
the piston cylinder cell and the modified Bridgman cell, respectivedely.

Figure 9: (Color online) Temperature dependence of the resistivity of
Ba(Fe0.79Ru0.21)2As2 up to 1.12 and 7.39 GPa measured using the piston
cylinder cell and the modified Bridgman cell, respectively. (a) Shown
for temperatures up to 300 K. (b) Shown for temperatures up to 30 K.

more vulnerable to pressure inhomogeneities due to the larger region
across which strain gradients can occur.

The effect of strain gradients and or internal crystallographic strain
[30] (associated with dislocation and other mechanically induced
defects) on the samples can also be invoked to explain the relatively
low-pressure sensitivity of the T_(c, onset) line in the phase diagrams.
Given that T_(c, ρ = 0) forms a fairly well-defined, pressure-dependent
domelike region, T_(c, onset) can be understood in terms of an effective
strain gradient over some region of the sample, equivalent to several
gigapascals. With such a gradient, a wide distribution of the T_(c)
values could exist, leading to a fairly pressure-insensitive
T_(c, onset) ∼ T_(c, max). This is precisely what is seen here as well
as in SrFe₂As₂ (Ref. [30]) and inferred by Nakashima _et al._[32] Based
on this premise, we pay far greater attention to the T_(c, ρ = 0)(P)
data.

All of the T − P phase diagrams for Ba(Fe_(1 − x)Ru_(x))₂As₂ are shown
together in Fig. 13. Although the suppression of

Figure 11: (Color online) Temperature dependence of the resistivity of
Ba(Fe_(0.72)Ru_(0.28))As₂ up to 2.22 GPa measured using the piston
cylinder cell. (a) Shown for temperatures up to 300 K. (b) Shown for
temperatures up to 20 K.

Figure 10: (Color online) T − P phase diagram for measurements of
Ba(Fe_(0.79)Ru_(0.21))₂As₂. Open and solid symbols indicate measurements
using the piston cylinder cell and the modified Bridgman cell,
respectively.

Figure 13: (Color online) Combined phase diagram for all Ru
concentrations. Open and closed symbols are transition temperatures from
measurements using the piston cylinder cell and Bridgman cell,
respectively. Lines are guides for the eyes.

$T_{\rm sm}$ with increasing Ru concentration and pressure is clear, as
is the stabilizing of the superconducting region, this plot does not
clearly reveal any other unifying trends.

In the earlier study of Ru substitution in BaFe₂As₂, [11] a comparison
was made between the T − x phase diagram and the T − P phase diagram of
the parent compound. We make the same comparison here, in Fig. 14, with
measurements taken with the isopentane : n-pentane mixture. Although the
full superconducting dome was not determined under pressure for pure
BaFe₂As₂, by overlapping the $T_{\rm sm}$ suppression curve, it is
readily seen that 3 GPa is grossly comparable to x = 0.10 Ru
substitution for these pressure conditions. It should be noted that for
the Fluorinert 70 : 77 pressure medium used in the Bridgman cell, [11,
13] this relation was close to 2 GPa to x = 0.10 Ru. Clearly this
relationship depends on multiple factors, most likely associated with
non-hydrostatic pressure components due to the freezing of the liquid
medium.

Using this relationship from pure BaFe₂As₂ under pressure and ambient
pressure Ba(Fe_(1 − x)Ru_(x))₂As₂, a more revealing composite phase
diagram can be created by shifting the T − P phase diagrams for the
various Ru concentrations according to the ratio 3 GPa : x = 0.10 Ru.
When this is done (see Fig. 15), the data form a much more consistent
picture, with $T_{\rm sm}$ and T_(c) manifolds lying roughly on top of
each other. It is important to point out that although the pressure : Ru
concentration ratio was based on $T_{\rm sm}$ normalization, the
T_(c, ρ = 0) data fall onto a consistent manifold as well. Figure 15
demonstrates that for all Ru concentrations that were studied, only a
single scaling, 3 GPa for x = 0.10 Ru, is necessary to line up the phase
diagrams. This means that the effects of pressure and Ru substitution on
BaFe₂As₂ are additive in a simple manner across the whole phase diagram.
It must be emphasized, though, that this scaling value, 3 GPa ∼ 0.1 x
Ru, is associated with a specific pressure media. For the Fluorinert
mixture used by Colombier _et al._, [13] the scaling is 2.2 GPa ∼ 0.1 x
Ru, and using data from Yamazaki _et al._, [17] a scaling of 5 GPa ∼ 0.1
x Ru can be inferred.

Whereas both pressure and Ru substitution are nominally isoelectronic, a
similar composite phase diagram can be assembled from T − x−P data
collected on Ba(Fe_(1 − x)Co_(x))₂As₂ samples. [22] In this
non-isoelectronic case, a scaling of 0.8 GPa : x = 0.01 Co gives the
best collapse of the data onto single $T_{\rm sm}$ and T_(c) manifolds.
This result implies that the additive nature of doping and pressure may
not be limited to isoelectronic substitutions.

Another way of seeing the effect of pressure on the
Ba(Fe_(1 − x)Ru_(x))₂As₂ system is to plot the maximum T_(c, ρ = 0) on
the ambient pressure T − x phase diagram (Fig. 16). Because
$P_{\rm crit}$ was not reached with parent BaFe₂As₂, with this pressure
medium we use the maximum value reported by Colombier _et al._[13] as an
estimate. For the lower-than-optimal Ru-substituted samples, as pressure
suppresses the structural/

Figure 16: (Color online) Comparison of T − x phase diagram and the
maximum T_(c, ρ = 0) achieved with pressure at various Ru
concentrations. Solid stars are $T_{c,\,\rm max}$ values from this
study. The open star is the $T_{c,\rm max}$ reported by Colombier _et
al._[13]

Figure 14: (Color online) Comparison of the T − x phase diagram for
Ba(Fe_(1 − x)Ru_(x))₂As₂ and T − P phase diagram of BaFe₂As₂ with a
ratio of 3 GPa to x = 0.10 Ru relating the two horizontal axes.

Figure 15: (Color online) Phase diagram of all Ru concentrations each
shifted by 3 GPa for every x = 0.10 Ru substitution. Open and closed
symbols are transition temperatures from measurements using the piston
cylinder cell and Bridgman cell, respectively.

magnetic transition, T_(c) dramatically increases, as was the case for
Co-substituted BaFe₂As₂.[22] On the other hand, if $T_{\rm sm}$ has
already been suppressed, by either Co or Ru substitution, pressure no
longer increases T_(c) but rather suppresses it. This is consistent with
the idea that long-range structural/magnetic ordering is detrimental for
superconductivity and is the primary reason T_(c) is low or absent in
suboptimally substituted samples.

Figures 15 and 16 bring up an interesting question, perhaps a key one:
Do Ru substitution and pressure produce similar phase diagrams via
similar or different mechanisms? At a gross level the reason for the
similarity is the same: suppression of $T_{\rm sm}$ leads to an increase
in T_(c), as has been observed for a wide range of transition metal
substitutions.[1] Both Ru substitution and pressure suppress
$T_{\rm sm}$. The question becomes whether this is accomplished via
similar or different mechanisms. Whereas it is fairly certain that
pressure can change only details of the band structure (such as nesting
or density of states near the fermi surface), Ru substitution may change
the band structure[12] or it may suppress the magnetic transition
temperature by replacing Fe with a far less magnetic ion. For example,
in a simple Stoner picture, the magnetic moment can depend on a product
of density of states and on-site repulsion. Ru can change both, whereas
pressure will not significantly change the on-site term for Fe. In this
light, Ru substitution would be a less dramatic example of substituting
Y or Lu for Rare Earth = Gd-Tm in a rare earth intermetallic
compound,[33] perhaps involving Stoner enhancement, rather than local
moments. Ultimately, systematic studies, across the whole Ru series, via
ARPES will help address these questions.

## V Conclusion

Pressure measurements have been carried out on the
Ba(Fe_(1 − x)Ru_(x))₂As₂ system. The resulting phase diagrams show a
suppression of $T_{\rm sm}$ and an enhancement of T_(c) up to
$P_{\rm crit}$, where we see the narrowest superconducting transition
T_(c, max ) and the disappearance of $T_{\rm sm}$ by the addition of
pressure for underdoped compounds. For the optimal Ru concentrations,
further pressure increases beyond $P_{\rm crit}$ lowers T_(c) and
broadens the superconducting transition. Comparisons between the
Ba(Fe_(1 − x)Ru_(x))₂As₂T − x phase diagrams indicate an additive
correlation between physical pressure and Ru substitution of 3 GPa to
x = 0.10 Ru concentration. A comparison between T_(c, max ) and the
T − x phase diagram indicates that suppression of the
structural/magnetic transition is necessary for superconductivity to
reach its maximum T_(c) values.

## Acknowledgments

We thank E. D. Mun, X. Lin, and A. Kreyssig for enlightening
discussions. This work was carried out at Ames Laboratory, US DOE, under
Contract No. DE-AC02-07CH11358 (SKK, EC, AT, SLB, and PCC). Part of this
work was performed at the Iowa State University and supported by the
AFOSR-MURI, Grant No. FA9550-09-1-0603 (MST and PCC). MST was supported
in part by the National Science Foundation under Grant No. DMR-0805335.
S.L.B. acknowledges partial support from the State of Iowa through Iowa
State University.

## Appendix

Given the importance of hydrostaticity for the measurements of ρ(T)
under pressure, we opted for a pressure medium that solidifies at
relatively high pressure at ambient temperature, thus reducing
nonhydrostatic components associated with the pressurization process. As
a side product of this study, we were able to use the sensitivity of
Ba(Fe_(1 − x)Ru_(x))₂As₂ to pressure conditions to track the melting
temperature of the two liquid media at various pressures. We found that
upon warming the resistivity data for various pressures and samples
showed a small, anomalous, kinklike feature at higher temperatures [see
Fig. 17(a)]. Because this resistive anomaly consistently appeared at
similar temperatures for similar pressures and was independent of Ru
content, it was attributed to a subtle change in the pressure
conditions. For the Bridgman cell with the 1 : 1 isopentane : n-pentane
mixture, this feature was found to correspond to the melting temperature
of the liquid medium.[34] Although this feature is essentially invisible
in the ρ(T) plots shown in the main text and is even difficult to

Figure 17: (Color online) (a) Feature in resistivity data for
Ba(Fe_(0.79)Ru_(0.21))₂As₂ at 2.27, 3.28, and 3.99 GPa. Dashed are
extrapolations of the lower temperature, linear ρ(T) data. (b) Feature
in dρ/dT indicative of the melting of the liquid medium.

see in the expanded Fig. 17(a), this feature is readily seen in the
derivative of the resistivity, Fig. 17(b). The minimum of this
derivative was taken as the vitrification/solidification temperature of
the liquid medium.

The T − P phase diagram inferred from these data is presented in Fig.
18. When this curve is extrapolated to zero pressure, the melting event
occurs at ∼85 K. This is lower than the previously reported freezing
temperatures (105 K and 125 K at ambient pressure [34, 35]), but this
discrepancy is not unexpected given the different criterion used to
determine the solidification temperature. Sundqvist [35] measured the
resistivity of a Manganin wire suspended in this liquid medium and noted
the temperature at which the resistivity dramatically diverges from the
expected linear behavior, indicating the onset of solidification. On the
other hand, Klotz _et al._[34] used the "blocked-capillary method,"
where a thin capillary inside a temperature-controlled copper block is
filled with the liquid medium. In this case the reported values were for
temperatures where the liquid medium attains a viscosity similar to
thick molasses.

More importantly, it is useful to know the hydrostatic limit of the
liquid medium at the temperature when pressure is applied. Usually this
is at room temperature (∼300 K). Both Piermarini _et al._[27] and Klotz
_et al._[29] placed rubies in a diamond anvil cell filled with the
isopentane and n-pentane mixture. At 7.4 GPa they saw a broadening of
the spectral line of rubies that could be correlated to the
solidification of the medium. The hardness of rubies makes them less
sensitive to pressure gradients; therefore 7.4 GPa can be considered a
higher hydrostatic limit of the liquid medium. A different approach was
used by Nomura _et al._, [36] where, once again, the resistivity of a
Manganin wire was suspended in the liquid medium, but this time inside a
cubic anvil pressure cell. At 283 K the resistivity of the Manganin wire
diverged from the expected linear behavior at 5.6 GPa. [36]

In our study the anomaly seen in the resistivity curves indicate that
the melting event occurs at ∼6.5 GPa at 300 K, which is within the range
of previously reported values. In fact, at ∼283 K, the hydrostatic limit
from our study is 6.0 GPa, which is only 0.4 GPa higher than the results
from Nomura _et al._[36].

The advantage of this study was that the freezing transition was tracked
across a wide range of temperatures and pressures. Previous reports [27,
29, 34, 36] on the vitrification/solidification of the isopentane :
n-pentane mixture were typically studied only at a given temperature or
pressure.

In a similar manner, the vitrification/solidification temperature of the
4 : 6 light mineral oil : n-pentane mixture was determined at several
pressures using the piston cylinder cell. The resistivity data for
Ba(Fe_(0.79)Ru_(0.21))₂As₂ taken upon warming with this liquid medium
showed a similar anomalous kink; the derivative of the resistivity data
showed a clear feature that we took to be the
vitrification/solidification event. Figure 19 shows the T − P phase
diagram for this liquid medium. At 300 K this phase transition is
expected to occur at a pressure of roughly 3.5 GPa, thus quantitatively
justifying the use of this liquid medium at pressures up to 3 GPa in the
past. [37]

## References

* [1] P. C. Canfield and S. L. Bud’ko, Annu. Rev. Condens. Matter Phys.
**1**, 27 (2010). * [2] M. Rotter, M. Tegel, and D. Johrendt, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **101**, 107006 (2008). * [3] M. Rotter, C. Hieke, and D.
Johrendt, Phys. Rev. B **82**, 014513 (2010). * [4] S. Kasahara, T.
Shibauchi, K. Hashimoto, K. Ikada, S. Tonegawa, R. Okazaki, H. Shishido,
H. Ikeda, H. Takeya, K. Hirata, T. Terashima, and Y. Matsuda, Phys. Rev.
B **81**, 184519 (2010). * [5] M. G. Kim, A. Kreyssig, A. Thaler, D. K.
Pratt, W. Tian, J. L. Zarestky, M. A. Green, S. L. Bud’ko, P. C.
Canfield, R. J. McQueeney, and A. I. Goldman, Phys. Rev. B **82**,
220503 (2010).

Figure 19: (Color online) Combined phase diagram of the melting of the
liquid medium 4 : 6 light mineral oil : n-pentane.

Figure 18: (Color online) Combined phase diagram of the melting of the
liquid medium (1 : 1 isopentane : n-pentane).

* (6) N. Ni, M. E. Tillman, J. Q. Yan, A. Kracher, S. T. Hannahs, S. L.
Bud’ko, and P. C. Canfield, Phys. Rev. B **78**, 214515 (2008). * (7) N.
Ni, A. Thaler, J. Q. Yan, A. Kracher, E. Colombier, S. L. Bud’ko, P. C.
Canfield, and S. T. Hannahs, Phys. Rev. B **82**, 024519 (2010). * (8)
A. S. Sefat, R. Jin, M. A. McGuire, B. C. Sales, D. J. Singh, and D.
Mandrus, Phys. Rev. Lett. **101**, 117004 (2008). * (9) A. S. Sefat, D.
J. Singh, L. H. VanBebber, Y. Mozharivskyj, M. A. McGuire, R. Jin, B. C.
Sales, V. Keppens, and D. Mandrus, Phys. Rev. B **79**, 224524 (2009). *
(10) J.-H. Chu, J. G. Analytis, C. Kucharczyk, and I. R. Fisher, Phys.
Rev. B **79**, 014506 (2009). * (11) A. Thaler, N. Ni, A. Kracher, J. Q.
Yan, S. L. Bud’ko, and P. C. Canfield, Phys. Rev. B **82**, 014534
(2010). * (12) F. Rullier-Albenque, D. Colson, A. Forget, P. Thuery, and
S. Poissonnet, Phys. Rev. B **81**, 224503 (2010). * (13) E. Colombier,
S. L. Bud’ko, N. Ni, and P. C. Canfield, Phys. Rev. B **79**, 224518
(2009). * (14) K. Matsubayashi, N. Katayama, K. Ohgushi, A. Yamada, K.
Munakata, T. Matsumoto, and Y. Uwatoko, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **78**,
073706 (2009). * (15) F. Ishikawa, N. Eguchi, M. Kodama, K. Fujimaki, M.
Einaga, A. Ohmura, A. Nakayama, A. Mitsuda, and Y. Yamada, Phys. Rev. B
**79**, 172506 (2009). * (16) W. J. Duncan, O. P. Welzel, C. Harrison,
X. F. Wang, X. H. Chen, F. M. Grosche, and P. G. Niklowitz, J. Phys.
Condens. Matter **22**, 052201 (2010). * (17) T. Yamazaki, N. Takeshita,
R. Kobayashi, H. Fukazawa, Y. Kohori, K. Kihou, C. H. Lee, H. Kito, A.
Iyo, and H. Eisaki, Phys. Rev. B **81**, 224511 (2010). * (18) M. S.
Torikachvili, S. L. Bud’ko, N. Ni, and P. C. Canfield, Phys. Rev. B
**78**, 104527 (2008). * (19) M. S. Torikachvili, S. L. Bud’ko, N. Ni,
and P. C. Canfield, Phys. Rev. Lett. **101**, 057006 (2008). * (20) P.
L. Alireza, Y. T. C. Ko, J. Gillett, C. M. Petrone, J. M. Cole, G. G.
Lonzarich, and S. E. Sebastian, J. Phys. Condens. Matter **21**, 012208
(2009). * (21) H. Kotegawa, T. Kawazoe, H. Sugawara, K. Murata, and H.
Tou, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **78**, 083702 (2009). * (22) E. Colombier, M.
S. Torikachvili, N. Ni, A. Thaler, S. L. Bud’ko, and P. C. Canfield,
Supercond. Sci. Technol. **23**, 054003 (2010). * (23) S. A. J. Kimber,
A. Kreyssig, Y.-Z. Zhang, H. O. Jeschke, R. Valenti, F. Yokaichiya, E.
Colombier, J. Yan, T. C. Hansen, T. Chatterji, R. J. McQueeney, P. C.
Canfield, A. I. Goldman, and D. N. Argyriou, Nat. Mater. **8**, 471
(2009). * (24) E. Colombier and D. Braithwaite, Rev. Sci. Instrum.
**78**, 093903 (2007). * (25) A. Eiling and J. S. Schilling, J. Phys. F
**11**, 623 (1981). * (26) V. A. Sidorov and R. A. Sadykov, J. Phys.
Condens. Matter **17**, S3005 (2005). * (27) G. J. Piermarini, S. Block,
and J. D. Barnett, J. Appl. Phys. **44**, 12 (1973). * (28) T. Sakai, T.
Kagayama, and G. Oomi, J. Mater. Process. Technol. **85**, 224 (1999). *
(29) S. Klotz, J.-C. Chervin, P. Munsch, and G. Le Marchand, J. Phys. D
**42**, 075413 (2009). * (30) S. R. Saha, N. P. Butch, K. Kirshenbaum,
J. Paglione, and P. Y. Zavalij, Phys. Rev. Lett. **103**, 037005
(2009). * (31) R. Hu, S. L. Bud’ko, W. E. Straszheim, and P. C.
Canfield, Phys. Rev. B **83**, 094520 (2011). * (32) Y. Nakashima, H.
Yui, and T. Sasagawa, Physica C **470**, 1063 (2010). * (33) T. A.
Wiener, I. R. Fisher, S. L. Bud’ko, A. Kracher, and P. C. Canfield,
Phys. Rev. B **62**, 15056 (2000). * (34) S. Klotz, J. Philippe, and E.
Cochard, J. Phys. D **39**, 1674 (2006). * (35) B. Sundqvist, J. Phys. E
**20**, 984 (1987). * (36) M. Nomura, T. Nishizaka, Y. Hirata, N.
Nakagiri, and H. Fujiwara, Jpn. J. Appl. Phys. **21**, 936 (1982). *
(37) S. L. Bud’ko, A. N. Voronovskii, A. G. Gapotchenko, and E. S.
Iskevich, Zh. Eksp. Teor. Fiz. **86**, 778 (1984).
