Superconductivity in Ru_(0.55)Rh_(0.45)P and Ru_(0.75)Rh_(0.25)As probed
by muon spin relaxation and rotation measurements

V. K. Anand,^(1,) D. T. Adroja,^(2, 3,) M. R. Lees,⁴ P. K. Biswas,² A.
D. Hillier,² and B. Lake¹

¹Helmholtz-Zentrum Berlin fur Materialien und Energie GmbH, Hahn-Meitner
Platz 1, D-14109 Berlin, Germany

²ISIS Facility, Rutherford Appleton Laboratory, Chilton, Didcot, Oxon,
OX11 0QX, United Kingdom

³Highly Correlated Matter Research Group, Physics Department, University
of Johannesburg, P.O. Box 524, Auckland Park 2006, South Africa

⁴Department of Physics, University of Warwick, Coventry CV4 7AL, United
Kingdom

###### Abstract

Superconductivity in the pseudobinary pnictides Ru_(0.55)Rh_(0.45)P and
Ru_(0.75)Rh_(0.25)As is probed by muon spin relaxation and rotation
(μSR) measurements in conjunction with magnetic susceptibility, heat
capacity, and electrical resistivity measurements. Powder x-ray
diffraction confirmed the MnP-type orthorhombic structure (space group
Pnma) and showed a nearly single phase nature with small impurity
phase(s) of about 5

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.98.214517

## I Introduction

The discovery of superconductivity in FeAs-based compounds stimulated
great interest in pnictide materials [1,2]. Recently the pseudobinary
pnictides Ru_(1 − x)Rh_(x)Pn (Pn = P, As) which are free of iron were
reported to show superconductivity [3]. Interestingly, the parent
compounds RuP and RuAs are nonsuperconducting and nonmagnetic, implying
that the superconductivity in these pseudobinary pnictides is accessed
through a nonmagnetic critical point. The nonmagnetic route to
superconductivity in these pseudobinary pnictides is distinct from that
of iron arsenides, where superconductivity occurs upon suppressing the
ordered Fe moment, making them very interesting for further
investigations that should be helpful in understanding the physics of
superconductivity in pnictides and ascertain the role of Fe moment in
iron arsenide superconductors.

Both RuP and RuAs crystallize with a MnP-type orthorhombic structure
(space group Pnma) which consists of face-sharing chains of RuPn₆
octahedra along the a axis and a distorted triangular lattice of Ru
within the bc plane [3]. The crystal structure is illustrated in Fig. 1.
Both RuP and RuAs have nonmagnetic and nonsuperconducting ground states,
though they undergo a metal to insulator transition below 270 K (RuP)
and 200 K (RuAs) [3]. Furthermore, they also exhibit evidence for the
pseudogap formation associated with a structural phase transition at 330
K for RuP and 280 K for RuAs [3]. The partial substitution of Ru by Rh
suppresses both pseudogap formation and metal-insulator transition,
leading to the emergence of superconductivity with a maximum $T_{\rm c}$
of 3.7 K for Ru_(0.55)Rh_(0.45)P and 1.8 K for Ru_(0.75)Rh_(0.25)As [3].

In order to characterize the superconducting properties of
Ru_(0.55)Rh_(0.45)P and Ru_(0.75)Rh_(0.25)As in detail we have
investigated the physical properties of these two pseudobinaries by
means of various complementary tools. Here we report our results on the
superconducting and normal state properties of Ru_(0.55)Rh_(0.45)P and
Ru_(0.75)Rh_(0.25)As based on magnetic susceptibility χ(T), isothermal
magnetization M(H), heat capacity C_(p)(T, H), electrical resistivity
ρ(T, H), and muon spin relaxation and rotation (μSR) measurements. Our
M(T), C_(p)(T), and ρ(T) data confirm the bulk superconductivity with
$T_{\rm c}$ = 3.7 K for Ru_(0.55)Rh_(0.45)P and $T_{\rm c}$ = 1.6 K for
Ru_(0.75)Rh_(0.25)As. The superconducting state electronic heat capacity
of both Ru_(0.55)Rh_(0.45)P and Ru_(0.75)Rh_(0.25)As can be described by
the conventional single-band weak coupling Bardeen, Cooper, Schrieffer
(BCS) model of superconductivity. The superconducting state parameters
characterize them as weakly coupled electron-phonon driven type-II
superconductors in the dirty limit. Our μSR data further confirm the
type-II superconductivity with a single-band s-wave singlet pairing and
preserved time reversal symmetry in both the compounds.

## II Experimental Details

Polycrystalline samples of Ru_(0.55)Rh_(0.45)P and Ru_(0.75)Rh_(0.25)As
were prepared by the solid state reaction method at the Core Lab for
Quantum Materials, Helmholtz-Zentrum Berlin. Stoichiometric amounts of
high purity elements (Ru: 99.9

The room temperature powder XRD patterns revealed a nearly single phase
nature of both the samples with small impurity phase(s) of about 5

The magnetic susceptibility and isothermal magnetization were measured
using a Quantum Design magnetic property measurement system (MPMS) SQUID
magnetometer. The heat capacity measurements were performed by the
relaxation method using a Quantum Design physical property measurement
system (PPMS). The electrical resistivity measurements were performed by
a standard four-probe ac technique using the PPMS. Temperatures down to
0.35 K were attained by a ³He insert in the PPMS. For magnetic
properties we use Gaussian cgs units, where tesla (1 T = 10⁴ Oe) is a
unit of convenience for magnetic field H.

The muon spectroscopy measurements were carried out using the MuSR
spectrometer at the ISIS facility of the Rutherford Appleton Laboratory,
United Kingdom, with the detectors in both longitudinal and transverse
configurations. A high purity silver (99.999

## III Superconductivity in Ru0.95Rh0.45P

### Magnetic susceptibility and magnetization

The zero-field-cooled (ZFC) and field-cooled (FC) _kh_(_T_) data for
Ru0.55Rh0.45P measured in H = 0.5 mT are shown in Fig. 2. A clear
superconducting transition near 3.7 K is evident from both ZFC and FC
_kh_(_T_). The large Meissner signal for the ZFC _kh_ corresponds to
almost 100

### Electrical resistivity

The _r_(_T_) data for Ru0.55Rh0.45P measured at various fields are shown
in Fig. 3. A clear superconducting transition is seen in _r_(_T_). In
the normal state, the _r_(_T_) data reveal a metallic character, i.e.,
the r decreases with decreasing T, reaching a value of 0.55 mΩ cm at 5 K
giving a residual resistivity ratio of 1.2. The onset of
superconductivity occurs at T_(c)^(onset) ≈ 3.9 K and the zero
resistance state is reached at T_(c) ≈ 3.8 K [see inset (i) of Fig.
3(a)]. The effect of magnetic field on _T_c is clear from the _r_(_T_)
measured in different H [Fig. 3(b)], the _T_c decreases with increasing
H. The _r_(_H_) data indicate that a field of about 3.2 T is required to
completely destroy the superconductivity [see inset (ii) of Fig. 3(a)].

Figure 1: MnP-type orthorhombic structure (space group _Pnma_) of RuP as
viewed along the a axis.

Figure 2: Zero-field-cooled (ZFC) and field-cooled (FC) magnetic
susceptibility _kh_ of Ru0.55Rh0.45P as a function of temperature T for
0.46 K ≤ T ≤ 5 K measured in applied magnetic field H = 0.5 mT. Inset:
Isothermal magnetization _M_(_H_) at T = 0.5, 1.6, and 3.0 K.

### Heat capacity

The $C_{\rm p}(T)$ data for Ru_(0.55)Rh_(0.45)P measured at various
fields are shown in Fig. 4. An anomaly related to the superconducting
transition is clearly seen from the $C_{\rm p}(T)$ data,
$T_{\rm c}^{\rm onset}=3.86$ K at H = 0. Using the entropy-conserving
construction [as shown in Fig. 4(b)] we define $T_{\rm c}=3.70(5)$ K.
The application of magnetic field suppresses the $T_{\rm c}$, and at
H = 3.0 T the anomaly related to superconductivity is suppressed to a
temperature below 0.46 K [see Fig. 4(a)]. We also see an anomaly near 1
K whose origin is not clear and we attribute it to the presence of
unidentified impurity in the sample. The absence of any corresponding
anomaly in the magnetic susceptibility data or the muon spectroscopy
data presented below supports the view that the bulk of any impurity in
the sample is nonmagnetic. A secondary superconducting phase with a
different Rh concentration seems very likely to be the source of this 1
K anomaly in $C_{\rm p}(T)$.

The low-T$C_{\rm p}(T)$ data above $T_{\rm c}$ are well described by
$C_{\rm p}(T)=\gamma_{\rm n}T+\beta T^{3}$, allowing us to estimate the
normal state Sommerfeld coefficient $\gamma_{\rm n}=1.03(4)$ mJ/mol K².
The coefficient β is found to be 0.078 mJ/mol K⁴ which gives an estimate
of Debye temperature $\Theta_{\rm D}=(12\pi^{4}Rn/5\beta)^{1/3}=368(5)$
K, where R is the molar gas constant and n = 2 the number of atoms per
formula units [4]. We estimate the density of states at the Fermi level
$\mathcal{D}(E_{\rm F})$ according to the relation
$\gamma_{\rm n}=(\pi^{2}k_{\rm B}^{2}/3)\mathcal{D}(E_{\rm F})$,
yielding $\mathcal{D}(E_{\rm F})=0.44(1)$ states/eV f.u. for both spin
directions. The bare band-structure density of states
$\mathcal{D}_{\rm band}(E_{\rm F})$ can be found using the relation
$\mathcal{D}(E_{\rm F})=\mathcal{D}_{\rm band}(E_{\rm F})(1+\lambda_{\rm e-ph})$[5].
The electron-phonon coupling constant $\lambda_{\rm e-ph}$ can be
determined using McMillan’s relation [6]

$$\lambda_{\rm e-ph}=\frac{1.04+\mu^{*}\ln(\Theta_{\rm D}/1.45\ T_{\rm c})}{(1-0. 62\mu^{*})\ln(\Theta_{\rm D}/1.45\ T_{\rm c})-1.04}.$$
(1)

Accordingly, for μ^(*) = 0.13, and using the values of $T_{\rm c}=3.7$ K
and $\Theta_{\rm D}=368$ K, we obtain $\lambda_{\rm e-ph}=0.56$. The
small value of $\lambda_{\rm e-ph}$ reflects a weak-coupling
superconductivity in

Figure 4: (a) Heat capacity $C_{\rm p}$ of Ru_(0.45)Rh_(0.45)P as a
function of temperature T for 0.45 K  ≤ T≤ 5 K measured in different
indicated applied magnetic fields. (b) Electronic contribution
$C_{\rm c}(T)$ to zero field heat capacity. The solid red curve is the
theoretical prediction for single-band fully gapped
$\left|\Delta(0)/k_{\rm B}T_{\rm c}=1.764\right|$ BCS superconductivity.
The theoretical curve is shifted up by 0.40 mJ/mol K which accounts for
a nonsuperconducting contribution to $C_{\rm c}$. The dashed blue line
shows the $\gamma_{\rm n}T$.

Figure 3: (a) Electrical resistivity ρ of Ru_(0.45)Rh_(0.45)P as a
function of temperature T for 1 K  ≤ T≤ 300 K measured in applied
magnetic field H = 0. Insets: (i) Expanded plot of ρ(T) showing the
superconducting transition, and (ii) ρ(H) at 1 K. (b) Low-Tρ(T) at
different H for 0.45 K  ≤ T≤ 5.5 K.

Ru_(0.58)Rh_(0.45)P. Using $\lambda_{\rm e-ph}=0.56$, we get
$\mathcal{D}_{\rm band}(E_{\rm F})=0.28$ states/eV f.u. for both spin
directions. The effective quasiparticle mass
$m^{*}=m^{*}_{\rm band}(1+\lambda_{\rm e-ph})$ is estimated to be
$m^{*}=1.56\ m_{\rm e}$. The Fermi velocity $v_{\rm F}$ estimated using
the relation
[4]$v_{\rm F}=(\pi^{2}\hbar^{3}/m^{*2}V_{\rm f.u.})\mathcal{D}(E_{\rm F})=5.74\times 1 0^{7}\ \rm cm/s$,
where $V_{\rm f.u.}$ is the volume per formula unit. The mean free path
given by
[7]$\ell=(3\pi^{2}\hbar^{3})/(e^{2}m^{*2}v_{\rm F}^{2}\rho_{0})=0.37$
nm. This value of ℓ is close to the lattice parameter b.

### Superconducting state properties

In order to estimate the superconducting parameters we separate out the
electronic contribution to the heat capacity $C_{\rm p}(T)$ by
subtracting off the lattice contribution from the measured
$C_{\rm p}(T)$, i.e., $C_{\rm e}(T)=C_{\rm p}(T)-\beta T^{3}$. The
$C_{\rm e}(T)$ estimated for Ru_(0.55)Rh_(0.45)P is shown in Fig. 4(b).
The $C_{\rm e}(T)$ shows superconducting transition more clearly,
reflecting the bulk nature of superconductivity. A jump of
$\Delta C_{\rm e}=5.40(5)$ mJ/mol K at $T_{\rm c}$ is obtained
corresponding to the entropy-conserving construction shown by the
vertical dotted line at $T_{\rm c}$ in Fig. 4(b). Accordingly we obtain
the parameter $\Delta C_{\rm e}/\gamma_{\rm z}T_{\rm c}=1.42(1)$ for
$T_{\rm c}=3.7$ K and $\gamma_{\rm z}=1.03(4)$ mJ/mol K², which is in
very good agreement with the BCS value of 1.426 in the weak-coupling
limit [8].

We analyze $C_{\rm e}(T)$ data within the framework of single-band
fully-gapped BCS model of superconductivity which is also supported by
our μSR data (discussed later). The theoretical prediction for the fully
gapped, $\Delta(0)/k_{\rm B}T_{\rm c}=1.764$ [where Δ(0) is the
superconducting gap at T = 0], BCS superconductivity is shown in Fig.
4(b). A reasonable agreement between the experimental data and the
theoretical prediction can be seen from Fig. 4(b). In order to compare
the experimental data and theoretical prediction, the theoretical curve
has been shifted by 0.40 mJ/mol K which can be attributed to the
presence of small nonsuperconducting impurity phase(s).

We estimate the thermodynamic critical field $H_{\rm c}(T)$ using the
zero-field $C_{\rm e}(T)$ data. $H_{\rm c}$ is related to the entropy
difference between the normal $S_{\rm en}$ and superconducting
$S_{\rm es}$ states [8, 9],
$H_{\rm c}^{2}(T)=8\pi\int_{T}^{T_{\rm c}}[S_{\rm en}(T^{\prime})-S_{\rm es}(T^{ \prime})]dT^{\prime}$.
The electronic entropies can be estimated by integrating the electronic
heat capacity, i.e.,
$S_{\rm e}(T^{\prime})=\int_{0}^{T}[C_{\rm e}(T^{\prime\prime})/T^{\prime\prime }]dT^{\prime\prime}$.
The $H_{\rm c}(T)$ obtained this way is shown in Fig. 5(a). The
$H_{\rm c}(T)$ data follow the behavior
$H_{\rm c}(T)=H_{\rm c}(0)[1-(T/T_{\rm c})^{p}]$, however with
p = 1.36(1) which is much lower than 2. The fit of $H_{\rm c}(T)$ data
shown by solid red curve in Fig. 5(a) yields $H_{\rm c}(0)=25.0(1)$ mT.

The T dependence of the lower critical field $H_{\rm c1}$ determined
from the M(H) isotherms collected at various T is shown in Fig. 5(b).
The $H_{\rm c1}(T)$ data are well described by the conventional behavior
$H_{\rm c1}(T)=H_{\rm c1}(0)[1-(T/T_{\rm c})^{p}]$, with p = 2, the fit
is shown by the solid red curve in Fig. 5(b). Accordingly we obtain
$H_{\rm c1}(0)=5.6(1)$ mT. This value of $H_{\rm c1}(0)$ is much lower
than the $H_{\rm c}(0)=25.0(1)$ mT obtained above, indicating a type-II
superconductivity in Ru_(0.55)Rh_(0.45)P.

The T dependence of the upper critical field $H_{\rm c2}$ determined
from the $C_{\rm p}(T,H)$ and ρ(T, H) data is shown in Fig. 5(c). The
much larger value of $H_{\rm c2}(T\to 0)$ compared to $H_{\rm c1}(0)$
and $H_{\rm c}(0)$ further confirms the type II superconductivity in
Ru_(0.55)Rh_(0.45)P. The initial slope of $H_{\rm c2}(T)$ is found to be
$dH_{\rm c2}(T)/dT|_{T=T_{\rm c}}=-1.08(2)$ T/K. The orbital critical
field $H_{\rm c2}^{\rm Qh}(0)$ estimated according to [10,
11]$H_{\rm c2}^{\rm Qh}(0)=-A\ T_{\rm c}\ dH_{\rm c2}(T)/dT|_{T=T_{\rm c}}$
is 2.92(5) T in the clean limit (A = 0.73) and 2.76(5) T in the dirty
limit (A = 0.69). The Pauli-limiting upper critical field
$H_{\rm P}(0)=1.86\ T_{\rm c}$[12, 13], accordingly we obtain
$H_{\rm P}(0)=6.88$ T. The Maki parameter
$\alpha_{\rm M}=\sqrt{2}\ H_{\rm c2}^{\rm Qh}(0)/H_{\rm P}(0)=0.57$[14]
using the dirty limit value of $H_{\rm c2}^{\rm Qh}(0)$. The small value
of $\alpha_{\rm M}$ suggests that the orbital pair breaking is important
in determining the $H_{\rm c2}$.

It is seen that the $H_{\rm c2}$ shows a linear T dependence without
showing any saturation tendency at low temperatures. This linear
behavior of $H_{\rm c2}(T)$ is quite distinct from the behavior of
isotropic, single-band BCS superconductors for which $H_{\rm c2}(T)$
exhibits a linear temperature dependence only close to $T_{\rm c}$ and
saturates at low temperatures with a downward curvature. As such the
$H_{\rm c2}(T)$ could not be described by the Werthamer, Helfand, and
Hohenberg (WHH) model for an isotropic superconductor in the dirty limit
[10, 11]. The WHH model predicted $H_{\rm c2}(T)$ for
$\alpha_{\rm M}=0.57$ and $\lambda_{\rm so}=0$ as well as
$\lambda_{\rm so}=1.0$ are shown in Fig. 5(c). The departure from the
WHH model is quite clear at low T. Therefore the upper critical field is
estimated by a linear extrapolation of $H_{\rm c2}(T)$, which yields
$H_{\rm c2}(0)=3.30(2)$ T.

The Ginzburg-Landau parameter
$\kappa_{\rm GL}=H_{\rm c2}(0)/\sqrt{2}\ H_{\rm c}(0)\approx 93\gg 1/\sqrt{2}$
for $H_{\rm c2}(0)=3.30$ T and $H_{\rm c}(0)=25.0$ mT clearly classifies
Ru_(0.55)Rh_(0.45)P as a type-II

Figure 5: (a) Thermodynamic critical field $H_{\rm c}$ of
Ru_(0.55)Rh_(0.45)P as a function of temperature T obtained from the
experimental electronic heat capacity $C_{\rm e}(T)$ data. (b) Lower
critical field $H_{\rm c1}(T)$ obtained from M(H) data and (c) upper
critical field $H_{\rm c2}(T)$ obtained from $C_{\rm p}(T,H)$ and
ρ(T, H) data. The solid curves represent the fits as discussed in the
text. The dashed line in (c) shows a linear behavior.

superconductor. The Ginzburg-Landau coherence length _x_GL(0) can be
estimated from [8,9]H_(c2)(0) = Φ₀/2πξ_(GL)(0)², where the flux quantum
Φ₀ = 2.07 × 10⁻⁷ G cm². Accordingly, for H_(c2(0)) = 3.30 T we get
_x_GL(0) = 10 nm. The much larger value of _x_GL(0) compared to the mean
free path (_l_ = 0.37 nm) indicates that the superconductivity in
Ru0.58Rh0.45P is in the dirty limit.

The BCS coherence length _x_GLSS estimated according to [8]

$$\xi_{\text{BCS}}=\frac{\hbar v_{\text{F}}}{\pi\,\Delta(0)}=\left(\frac{1}{\pi} \right)\frac{\hbar v_{\text{F}}}{1.764\,k_{\text{B}}T_{\text{c}}}$$
(2)

is found to be _x_BCS = 214 nm for _v_F = 5.74 x 107 cm/s and _T_c = 3.7
K. Within the Ginzburg-Landau theory an estimate of effective magnetic
penetration depth _l_eff can be obtained using the values of critical
fields through the relation [8]

$$\lambda_{\text{eff}}^{2}(0)=\frac{\Phi_{0}H_{\text{c2}}(0)}{4\pi\,H_{\text{c}} ^{2}}$$
(3)

which gives _l_eff(0) = 933 nm. The measured and derived superconducting
parameters of Ru0.55Rh0.45P are listed in Table 1 together with those of
Ru0.75Rh0.25As.

### Muon spin relaxation and rotation

The superconducting ground state of Ru0.55Rh0.45P was further probed by
muon spin relaxation and rotation measurements. In order to detect a
magnetic signal associated with the breaking of time-reversal symmetry
we first collected the _m_SR spectra in zero field (ZF). The time t
evolution of muon spin asymmetry for ZF-_m_SR is shown in Fig. 6 for
0.05 K and 4.2 K. No noticeable change is observed in the muon
relaxation rate above (4.2 K > _T_c) and below (0.05 K < _T_c) the
superconducting transition temperature which suggests that the muons do
not sense any spontaneous internal field while entering the
superconducting state. This indicates that the time-reversal symmetry in
the superconducting state is preserved in Ru0.55Rh0.45P.

The ZF _m_SR spectra are well described by the damped Gaussian
Kubo-Toyabe function,

A_(ZF)(t) = A₀ G_(KT)(t) e^(−Δt) + A_(BG),
(4)

where

$$G_{\text{KT}}(t)=\left[\frac{1}{3}+\frac{2}{3}(1-\sigma^{2}t^{2})\text{e}^{- \sigma^{2}t^{2}/2}\right]$$
(5)

is the Gaussian Kubo-Toyabe function [15], A0 is the initial asymmetry,
l is the electronic relaxation rate, s is the static relaxation rate,
and _A_BG is the time-independent background contribution. s is a
measure of the Gaussian distribution of static fields associated with
the nuclear moments and l accounts for the fluctuating field. The fits
of _m_SR spectra by the decay function in Eq. (4) are shown by solid
lines in Fig. 6. The fit yields s = 0.136(2) _m_s_-1 and l = 0.001(1)
_m_s_-1 at 0.05 K and s = 0.136(2) _m_s_-1 and l = 0.001(1) _m_s_-1 at
4.2 K. Within the error bar the values of s and l are essentially the
same, indicating that the time reversal symmetry remains preserved.

In order to obtain information about the superconducting gap structure
and pairing symmetry we also collected _m_SR spectra in a transverse
field (TF). The TF muon spin precession signals were collected in
field-cooled mode with an applied field of 30 mT at 4.2 K (above _T_c)
and then the sample was cooled to 0.05 K (below _T_c). The TF-_m_SR data
were collected at various temperatures in the heating cycle. The
TF-_m_SR precession signals at 4.2 and 0.05 K are shown in Figs. 7(a)
and 7(b). The TF-_m_SR spectra are well described by an oscillatory
function damped with a Gaussian relaxation and an oscillatory
background, i.e., by

A_(TF)(t) = A₁cos (ω₁t + ϕ)e^(−σ²t²/2)
(6)
+A_(BG)cos (ω_(BG)t + ϕ),

  ------------------------------- --------------- ----------------
                                   Ru0.55Rh0.45P   Ru0.55Rh0.45As
             _T_c (K)                 3.70(5)         1.60(4)
         _μ_s (mI/mol K²)             1.03(4)         3.79(6)
    _D_(_EF_) (states/eV f.u.)        0.44(1)         1.61(2)
             _μ_D (K)                 368(5)           284(2)
         _λ_eff(mI/mol K)              0.56             0.49
         _ΔC_e (mI/mol K)             5.40(5)         8.14(8)
          _ΔC_e/_γ_2_T_c              1.42(1)         1.42(2)
   _ΔO_f/_k_B_T_c (K) from _μ_SR      1.78(3)         1.81(6)
               _σ_M                    0.57             0.90
        _H_s(_T_ = 0) (mT)            25.0(1)         16.6(2)
             _H_p (T)                  6.88             2.98
        _H_s(_T_ = 0) (mT)            5.6(1)           5.4(1)
         _ΔC_e (mI/mol K)             2.76(5)         1.90(4)
          _ΔC_e/_γ_2_T_c              3.30(2)         2.60(1)
               _σ_GL                    93              111
        _σ_GL(_T_ = 0) (nm)             10               11
       _σ_BCS(_T_ = 0) (nm)             214             1792
     _ζ_(_m_* = 1.51_m_c) (nm)       0.37–0.42      0.023–0.051
          _λ_eff(0) (nm)                933             1247
     _λ_eff(0) (nm) from _μ_SR        309(3)           487(4)
  ------------------------------- --------------- ----------------

Table 1: Measured and derived superconducting and relevant normal state
parameters for Ru0.55Rh0.45P and Ru0.55Rh0.45As.

Figure 6: Zero field _μ_SR time spectra for Ru0.55Rh0.45P collected at
0.05 and 4.2 K. The solid curves show the fits made using Eq. (4).

where A₁ and $A_{\rm BG}$ are the initial asymmetries of sample and
background (silver holder), respectively, and
$\omega_{1}=\gamma_{\mu}H_{\rm int,1}$ and
$\omega_{BG}=\gamma_{\mu}H_{\rm int,BG}$ are the associated muon
precession frequencies (with internal field at muon site $H_{\rm int}$
and muon gyromagnetic ratio γ_(μ)); ϕ is the initial phase of the muon
precession signal. The Gaussian relaxation parameter $\sigma_{\rm TF}$
consists of two contributions: one due to the inhomogeneous field
variation across the superconducting vortex lattice $\sigma_{\rm sc}$
and the other due to the nuclear dipolar moments $\sigma_{\rm ann}$
which is assumed to be constant over the entire temperature range.
$\sigma_{\rm TF}$ is related to $\sigma_{\rm sc}$ and $\sigma_{\rm ann}$
as

$$\sigma_{\rm TF}^{2}=\sigma_{\rm sc}^{2}+\sigma_{\rm ann}^{2}.$$
(7)

The nuclear dipolar relaxation rate was obtained by fitting the spectra
at $T>T_{\rm c}$, which was then subtracted from $\sigma_{\rm TF}$
according to Eq. (7) to obtain the superconducting contribution
$\sigma_{\rm sc}$. The fits of the TF μSR spectra by the decay function
in Eq. (6) are shown by solid red curves in Figs. 7(a) and 7(b). At low
temperature, e.g., at T = 0.05 K ($T<T_{\rm c}$), the $\sigma_{\rm TF}$
is found to be much larger than that at $T>T_{\rm c}$. Such an increase
of $\sigma_{\rm TF}$ is due to the vortex lattice formation and reveals
bulk superconductivity in Ru_(0.55)Rh_(0.45)P.

The maximum entropy spectra that depict the magnetic field probability
distribution P(H) corresponding to the TF μSR spectra at 4.2 K and 0.05
K in Figs. 7(a) and 7(b) are shown in Figs. 7(c) and 7(d), respectively.
It is seen from Figs. 7(c) and 7(d) that in the normal state (at 4.2 K)
a sharp peak is observed at $H_{\rm int}$ centered around the applied H,
whereas in the superconducting state (at 0.05 K) an additional broad
peak appears at a lower field ($H_{\rm int}<H$). The appearance of an
additional peak at an internal field lower than the applied H is a
characteristic of a type-II behavior (due to the field distribution of
the flux-line lattice in the vortex state) and indicates a type-II
superconductivity in Ru_(0.55)Rh_(0.45)P as also inferred from the bulk
properties measurements and $\kappa_{\rm GL}$ listed in Table 1.

The $\sigma_{\rm sc}(T)$ obtained from $\sigma_{\rm TF}(T)$ is shown in
Fig. 8. The $\sigma_{\rm sc}$ is directly related to the magnetic
penetration depth and superfluid density and therefore carries
information about the symmetry and size of the superconducting gap. As
the TF spectra were collected at 30 mT which is much smaller than the
upper critical field, following Brandt [16], for a triangular vortex
lattice $\sigma_{\rm sc}$ is related to the effective penetration depth
$\lambda_{\rm eff}$ as

$$\frac{\sigma_{\rm sc}}{\gamma_{\mu}}=\sqrt{0.00371}\frac{\Phi_{0}}{\lambda_{ \rm eff}^{2}}.$$
(8)

This relation is valid for 0.13/κ² ≪  ≪ (H/H_(c2))≪1 and κ ≫ 70[16] and
these conditions are approximated by the parameters listed in Table 1
for Ru_(0.55)Rh_(0.45)P. The superconducting gap can be modeled by [17]

$$\frac{\sigma_{\rm sc}(T)}{\sigma_{\rm sc}(0)} = \frac{\lambda_{\rm eff}^{-2}(T,\,\Delta)}{\lambda_{\rm eff}^{-2}( 0)}$$
(9)
$$= 1+\frac{1}{\pi}\int_{0}^{2\pi}\int_{\Delta(T,\varphi)}^{\infty} \frac{\partial f}{\partial E}\frac{E\,{\rm d}E\,{\rm d}\varphi}{\sqrt{E^{2}- \Delta^{2}(T,\varphi)}},$$

where $f=[1+\exp(-E/k_{\rm B}T)]^{-1}$ is the Fermi function and φ is
the azimuthal angle along the Fermi surface. The T and φ dependent order
parameter Δ(T, φ) = Δ(0)δ(T/T_(c))g(φ), where the function g(φ) contains
the angular dependence of the superconducting gap function. For an
isotropic gap s-wave model there is no angular dependence and hence we
used g(φ) = 1[18,19]. We used the BCS approximation
δ(T/T_(c)) = tanh [(1.82)(1.018(T_(c)/T − 1))^(0.51)][20].

The $\sigma_{\rm sc}(T)$ data could be described well by a single-band
isotropic gap s-wave model according to Eq. (9). The fit is shown by the
solid red curve in Fig. 8. The fit yielded Δ(0) = 0.57(1) meV which in
turn gives $\Delta(0)/k_{\rm B}T_{\rm c}=1.78(3)$ which

Figure 8: Temperature T dependence of the muon spin relaxation rate
$\sigma_{\rm sc}$ for Ru_(0.55)Rh_(0.45)P collected in a transverse
field of 30 mT in a field-cooled state. The solid curve represents the
fit for an isotropic single gap s-wave model according to Eq. (9).

Figure 7: Transverse field μSR time spectra for Ru_(0.55)Rh_(0.45)P
collected at (a) 4.2 K and (b) 50 mK in an applied magnetic field of 30
mT in the field-cooled state. The solid curves represent the fits made
using Eq. (6). The corresponding maximum entropy spectra are shown in
(c) and (d).

is in very good agreement with the expected BCS value of 1.764. From the
fit of $\sigma_{\rm sc}(T)$ we get
$\sigma_{\rm sc}(0)=0.179(2)\ \mu s^{-1}$ which according to Eq. (8)
yields $\lambda_{\rm eff}=309(3)$ nm. This observed value of
$\lambda_{\rm eff}$ is much lower than the calculated value of
$\lambda_{\rm eff}=933$ nm (see Table 1). As the μSR provides a reliable
estimate of superfluid density, the value of $\lambda_{\rm eff}$
obtained through the analysis of μSR is more realistic. The results
discussed above that were obtained from the μSR data (particularly the
temperature dependence of $\sigma_{\rm sc}$, which fits better to a
single s-wave gap with the BCS expected value of
$\Delta(0)/k_{\rm B}T_{\rm c}$) together reflect a single-band fully
gapped isotropic s-wave singlet pairing weakly coupled conventional
type-II superconductivity in Ru_(0.55)Rh_(0.45)P. Our μSR data thus
reflect a single-band fully gapped isotropic s-wave singlet pairing
weakly coupled conventional type-II superconductivity in
Ru_(0.55)Rh_(0.45)P.

## IV Superconductivity in Ru_(0.75)Rh_(0.25)As

### Magnetic susceptibility and magnetization

The ZFC and FC χ(T) data for Ru_(0.75)Rh_(0.25)As measured in H = 0.5 mT
are shown in Fig. 9. Both ZFC and FC χ(T) show clear superconducting
transition; an onset of superconductivity is seen at 1.73 K followed by
a sharp transition below 1.63 K. Further, the large Meissner signal for
the ZFC χ reveals bulk superconductivity with a superconducting phase
fraction of ∼100

### Electrical resistivity

The ρ(T) data of Ru_(0.75)Rh_(0.25)As measured with various applied
fields are shown in Fig. 10. The ρ exhibits metallic behavior and
undergoes a superconducting transition. The residual resistivity just
before entering the superconducting state is 7.25 mΩ cm and the residual
resistivity ratio is ∼1.1. The $T_{\rm c}^{\rm onset}$ for
superconductivity is ≈1.80 K with the zero resistance state below
$T_{\rm c0}\approx 1.63$ K [inset (i) of Fig. 10(a)]. The ρ(T) measured
in different H shown in Fig. 10(b) shows the suppression of $T_{\rm c}$
by field; $T_{\rm c}$ decreases with increasing H. The ρ(H) data in
inset (ii) of Fig. 10(a) indicate that a field of ∼1.6 T would be
required to destroy the superconductivity in Ru_(0.75)Rh_(0.25)As.

### Heat Capacity

The $C_{\rm p}(T)$ data of Ru_(0.75)Rh_(0.25)As measured with various
applied fields are shown in Fig. 11(a). The $C_{\rm p}(T)$ shows a clear
anomaly related to the superconducting transition. An onset of
superconductivity is seen at $T_{\rm c}^{\rm onset}=1.77$ K in zero
field $C_{\rm p}(T)$ data. A $T_{\rm c}=1.60(4)$ K is obtained by the
entropy-conserving construction shown in Fig. 11(b). As expected, the
application of magnetic field suppresses the $T_{\rm c}$. In addition,
the field also broadens the peak.

Figure 10: (a) Electrical resistivity ρ of Ru_(0.75)Rh_(0.25)As as a
function of temperature T for 0.45 K  ≤ T≤ 300 K measured in applied
magnetic field H = 0. Insets: (i) Expanded plot of ρ(T) showing the
superconducting transition and (ii) ρ(H) at 1 K. (b) Low-Tρ(T) at
different H for 0.45 K  ≤ T≤ 3 K.

Figure 9: Zero-field-cooled (ZFC) and field-cooled (FC) magnetic
susceptibility χ data of Ru_(0.75)Rh_(0.25)As as a function of
temperature T for 0.45 K  ≤ T≤ 2 K measured in applied magnetic field
H = 0.5 mT. Inset: Isothermal magnetization M(H) data measured at
indicated temperatures.

From the analysis of normal state low-T$C_{\rm p}(T)$ data we obtain
γ_(n) = 3.79(6) mJ/mol K² and β = 0.169(2) mJ/mol K⁴. The density of
states at the Fermi level is estimated to be
$\mathcal{D}(E_{\rm F})=1.61(2)$ states/eV f.u. for both spin
directions. The Debye temperature is found to be $\Theta_{\rm D}=284(2)$
K [4]. The electron-phonon coupling constant estimated according to Eq.
(1) for $T_{\rm c}=1.6$ K and $\Theta_{\rm D}=284$ K is
$\lambda_{\rm e-ph}=0.49$ which reflects a weak-coupling
superconductivity in Ru_(0.75)Rh_(0.25)As. For $\lambda_{\rm e-ph}=0.49$
the bare band-structure density of states is found to be
$\mathcal{D}_{\rm band}(E_{\rm F})=1.08$ states/eV f.u. for both spin
directions, and the effective quasiparticle mass turns out to be
m^(*) = 1.49$m_{\rm e}$. The Fermi velocity and mean free path are found
to be $v_{\rm F}=2.08\times 10^{8}$ cm/s and ℓ = 0.023 nm. We note that
the estimated value of ℓ is significantly lower than the lattice
constant suggesting that the Drude model of electrical conduction fails
to account for the measured resistivity.

### Superconducting state properties

The electronic contribution $C_{\rm e}(T)$ to the heat capacity of
Ru_(0.75)Rh_(0.25)As is shown in Fig. 11(b) which clearly shows the bulk
nature of superconductivity. Utilizing the entropy-conserving
construction in Fig. 11(b) we obtain $\Delta C_{\rm e}=8.14(8)$ mJ/mol K
at $T_{\rm c}$ and $\Delta C_{\rm e}/\gamma_{n}T_{\rm c}=1.42(2)$ for
$T_{\rm c}=1.6$ K and γ_(n) = 3.79 mJ/mol K² in very good agreement with
the weak-coupling BCS value of 1.426. The theoretical prediction for a
single-band fully gapped BCS superconductor is shown in Fig. 11(b) and
there is very reasonable agreement with the experimental data. The
theoretical curve is shifted up by 0.50 mJ/mol K to account for the
presence of small nonsuperconducting impurity phase(s) in the sample.

The thermodynamic critical field estimated from the zero-field heat
capacity data is shown in Fig. 12(a). The $H_{\rm c}(T)$ data follow the
behavior $H_{\rm c}(T)=H_{\rm c}(0)[1-(T/T_{\rm c})^{p}]$, with p = 1.5.
The fit of $H_{\rm c}(T)$ data by this behavior is shown by the solid
red curve in Fig. 12(a), giving $H_{\rm c}(0)=16.6(2)$ mT.

The lower critical field determined from the M(H) data is shown in Fig.
12(b) as a function of temperature. The $H_{\rm c1}(T)$ data follow
$H_{\rm c1}(T)=H_{\rm c1}(0)[1-(T/T_{\rm c})^{p}]$, with p = 1.5. The
fit of $H_{\rm c1}(T)$ by this expression is shown by the solid red
curve in Fig. 12(b) which gives a $H_{\rm c1}(0)=5.4(1)$ mT. Similar to
the case of Ru_(0.55)Rh_(0.45)P, the small value of $H_{\rm c1}(0)$
compared to the value of $H_{\rm c}(0)$ indicates a type-II
superconductivity in Ru_(0.75)Rh_(0.25)As.

The temperature dependence of the upper critical field determined from
the $C_{\rm p}(T,\,H)$ and ρ(T, H) data is shown in Fig. 12(c). With an
initial slope of $dH_{\rm c2}(T)/dT|_{T=T_{\rm c}}=-1.72(4)$ T/K, the
orbital critical field $H_{\rm c2}^{\rm obs}(0)=2.01(4)$ T in the clean
limit and $H_{\rm c2}^{\rm obs}(0)=1.90(4)$ T in the dirty limit. The
Pauli-limiting upper critical field is found to be
$H_{\rm P}(0)=2.98(7)$ T, accordingly we obtain Maki parameter
$\alpha_{\rm M}=0.90$. The $\alpha_{\rm M}$ is close to 1 and suggests
that the Pauli limiting is playing a role in determining the
$H_{\rm c2}$. Similar to the case of Ru_(0.55)Rh_(0.45)P, the
$H_{\rm c2}(T)$ of Ru_(0.75)Rh_(0.25)As shows a linear behavior that
cannot be described by the WHH model. The WHH model predictions for
$\alpha_{\rm M}=0.90$ and $\lambda_{\rm iso}=0$ as well as
$\lambda_{\rm iso}=1.0$ are shown in Fig. 12(c) to show the departure
from the WHH model, particularly at low T. A linear extrapolation of
$H_{\rm c2}(T)$ yields $H_{\rm c2}(0)=2.60(1)$ T.

The Ginzburg-Landau parameter estimated from $H_{\rm c2}(0)=2.60$ T and
$H_{\rm c}(0)=16.6$ mT is $\kappa_{\rm GL}\approx 111$, characterizing
Ru_(0.75)Rh_(0.25)As as a type-II superconductor. The Ginzburg-Landau
coherence length is found to be $\xi_{\rm GL}(0)=11$ nm. The
$\xi_{\rm GL}(0)$ is very large compared to the mean free path
(ℓ = 0.023 nm), suggesting a dirty-limit superconductivity in
Ru_(0.75)Rh_(0.25)As. For $v_{\rm F}=2.08\times 10^{8}$ cm/s and
$T_{\rm c}=1.6$ K, the BCS coherence length is found to be
$\xi_{\rm BCS}=1792$ nm. The effective magnetic penetration depth is
estimated to be $\lambda_{\rm eff}(0)=1247$ nm. The measured and derived
superconducting parameters of Ru_(0.75)Rh_(0.25)As are listed in Table
1.

### Muon spin relaxation and rotation

In order to further probe the superconducting ground state of
Ru_(0.75)Rh_(0.25)As we also carried out muon spin relaxation

Figure 11: (a) Heat capacity $C_{\rm p}$ of Ru_(0.75)Rh_(0.25)As as a
function of temperature T for 0.45 K  ≤ T≤ 2.5 K measured in different
indicated applied magnetic fields. (b) Electronic contribution
$C_{\rm e}$ to zero field heat capacity as a function of temperature T.
The solid red curve is the theoretical prediction for single-band fully
gapped [$\Delta(0)/k_{\rm B}T_{\rm c}=1.764$] BCS superconductivity. The
theoretical curve is shifted up by 0.50 mJ/mol K which accounts for
nonsuperconducting contribution to $C_{\rm e}$.

and rotation measurements both in zero field and transverse field. The
ZF-μSR spectra are shown in Fig. 13 for 0.071 and 3 K. As seen from Fig.
13 the muon relaxation rate above (3 K) and below (0.071 K) $T_{\rm c}$
are very similar which indicates that the time-reversal symmetry is
preserved in the superconducting state of Ru_(0.75)Rh_(0.25)As. The ZF
μSR spectra were analyzed by damped Gaussian Kubo-Toyabe function given
in Eq. (4); the fits of μSR spectra are shown by solid lines in Fig. 13.
From the fits we obtained σ = 0.089(1) μs⁻¹ and Λ = 0(0) μs⁻¹ at 0.071 K
and σ = 0.088(2) μs⁻¹ and Λ = 0(0) μs⁻¹ at 3 K.

The TF-μSR spectra of Ru_(0.75)Rh_(0.25)As, which were collected in
field-cooled mode with an applied field of 30 mT, at 2.5 K (above
$T_{\rm c}$) and 0.074 K (below $T_{\rm c}$) are shown in Figs. 14(a)
and 14(b). The TF-μSR spectra were analyzed by an oscillatory function
damped with a Gaussian combined with an oscillatory background given in
Eq. (6). The fits of the TF μSR spectra are shown by solid red curves in
Figs. 14(a) and 14(b). The $\sigma_{\rm TF}$ is found to be
significantly larger at $T<T_{\rm c}$ (e.g., at T = 0.074 K) compared to
that at $T>T_{\rm c}$, thus revealing a bulk superconductivity in
Ru_(0.75)Rh_(0.25)As. The maximum entropy spectra corresponding to the
TF μSR spectra at 2.5 and 0.074 K are shown in Figs. 14(c) and 14(d),
respectively. Only one peak (centered around the applied H) is observed
in both normal state (at 2.5 K) and superconducting state (at 0.074 K),
however, at 0.074 K the peak broadens a little with an extra shoulder on
the lower field side indicating type-II superconductivity. This
observation for Ru_(0.75)Rh_(0.25)As is different from that in
Ru_(0.55)Rh_(0.45)P where an additional peak at an internal field lower
than the applied H was clearly observed.

The $\sigma_{\rm sc}(T)$ obtained according to Eq. (7) from
$\sigma_{\rm TF}(T)$ of Ru_(0.75)Rh_(0.25)As is shown in Fig. 15. The
condition 0.13/κ²≪(H/H_(c2))≪1 and κ ≫ 70[16] are fulfilled by the
parameters of Ru_(0.75)Rh_(0.25)As listed in Table 1, therefore
$\sigma_{\rm sc}$ can be related to the effective penetration depth
$\lambda_{\rm eff}$ according to Eq. (8) and the superconducting gap can
be modeled by

Figure 14: Transverse field μSR time spectra for Ru_(0.75)Rh_(0.25)As
collected at (a) 2.5 K and (b) 74 mK in an applied magnetic field of 30
mT in the field-cooled state. The solid curves represent the fits made
using Eq. (6). The corresponding maximum entropy spectra are shown in
(c) and (d).

Figure 12: (a) Thermodynamic critical field H_(c) of
Ru_(0.75)Rh_(0.25)As as a function of temperature T obtained from the
experimental electronic heat capacity $C_{\rm sc}(T)$ data. (b) Lower
critical field $H_{\rm c1}(T)$ obtained from M(H) data and (c) upper
critical field H_(c2)(T) obtained from $C_{\rm p}(T,\,H)$ and ρ(T, H)
data. The solid curves represent the fits as discussed in text. The
dashed line in (c) shows a linear behavior.

Figure 13: Zero field μSR time spectra for Ru_(0.75)Rh_(0.25)As
collected at 0.071 and 3 K. The solid curves show the fits made using
Eq. (4).

Eq. (9) similar to the case of Ru_(0.55)Rh_(0.45)P discussed above. As
for Ru_(0.55)Rh_(0.45)P the $\sigma_{\rm sc}(T)$ of Ru_(0.75)Rh_(0.25)As
is also very well described by the single band isotropic gap s-wave
model. The fit of $\sigma_{\rm sc}(T)$ by Eq. (9) is shown by the solid
red curve in Fig. 15. The fit yielded Δ(0) = 0.25(1) meV which
corresponds to $\Delta(0)/k_{\rm B}T_{\rm c}=1.81(6)$ which within the
error bar is in very good agreement with the expected BCS value of
1.764. From the value of $\sigma_{\rm sc}(0)=0.072(1)$μs⁻¹ we obtain
$\lambda_{\rm eff}=487(4)$ nm which is again substantially lower than
the calculated value (see Table 1). Similar to the case of
Ru_(0.55)Rh_(0.45)P, the μSR data of Ru_(0.75)Rh_(0.25)As also reflect a
weakly coupled single-band fully gapped isotropic s-wave singlet pairing
conventional type-II superconductivity.

## V Conclusions

We have investigated the superconducting properties of two pseudobinary
pnictides Ru_(0.55)Rh_(0.45)P and Ru_(0.75)Rh_(0.25)As through χ(T),
M(H), $C_{\rm p}(T,H)$, ρ(T, H), and μSR measurements. The χ(T),
$C_{\rm p}(T)$, and ρ(T) present conclusive evidence for bulk
superconductivity below 3.7 K in Ru_(0.55)Rh_(0.45)P and below 1.6 K in
Ru_(0.75)Rh_(0.25)As. The superconducting state electronic heat capacity
of both Ru_(0.55)Rh_(0.45)P and Ru_(0.75)Rh_(0.25)As follows BCS
superconductivity characterized by
$\Delta C_{\rm c}/\gamma_{\rm a}T_{\rm c}=1.426$ and
$\Delta(0)/k_{\rm B}T_{\rm c}=1.764$. Various normal and superconducting
state parameters have been estimated and a weakly-coupled
electron-phonon driven type-II superconductivity in the dirty limit is
inferred for both Ru_(0.55)Rh_(0.45)P and Ru_(0.75)Rh_(0.25)As.

For both Ru_(0.55)Rh_(0.45)P and Ru_(0.75)Rh_(0.25)As, the upper
critical field is found to exhibit a linear temperature dependence,
which could not be described by the isotropic dirty limit theory of WHH.
This type of linear behavior has been associated with two band
superconductivity, however, our μSR data do not support two band
superconductivity in these compounds. The μSR data confirm the
conventional type-II behavior and reveal that the time reversal symmetry
is preserved in both the compounds. The analysis of the temperature
dependence of the superconducting contribution to muon relaxation rate
$\sigma_{\rm sc}(T)$ obtained from the TF-μSR data reveals an isotropic
single gap s-wave superconductivity in both the compounds.

###### Acknowledgements.

V.K.A. and B.L. acknowledge Helmholtz Gemeinschaft for funding via the
Helmholtz Virtual Institute (Project No. VH-VI-521). We would like to
thank the ISIS facility for providing beam time on the MuSR
spectrometer, RB1710170.

## References

* [1] D. C. Johnston, Adv. Phys. **59**, 803 (2010). * [2] G. R.
Stewart, Rev. Mod. Phys. **83**, 1589 (2011). * [3] D. Hirai, T.
Takayama, D. Hashizume, and H. Takagi, Phys. Rev. B **85**, 140509(R)
(2012). * [4] C. Kittel, _Introduction to Solid State Physics_, 8th ed.
(Wiley, New York, 2005). * [5] G. Grimvall, Phys. Scr. **14**, 63
(1976). * [6] W. L. McMillan, Phys. Rev. **167**, 331 (1968). * [7] V.
K. Anand, H. Kim, M. A. Tanatar, R. Prozorov, and D. C. Johnston, Phys.
Rev. B **87**, 224510 (2013). * [8] M. Tinkham, _Introduction to
Superconductivity_, 2nd ed. (Dover, Mineola, NY, 1996). * [9] P. G. de
Gennes, _Superconductivity of Metals and Alloys_ (Benjamin, New York,
1966). * [10] E. Helfand and N. R. Werthamer, Phys. Rev. **147**, 288
(1966). * [11] N. R. Werthamer, E. Helfand, and P. C. Hohenberg, Phys.
Rev. **147**, 295 (1966). * [12] A. M. Clogston, Phys. Rev. Lett. **9**,
266 (1962). * [13] B. S. Chandrasekhar, Appl. Phys. Lett. **1**, 7
(1962). * [14] K. Maki, Phys. Rev. **148**, 362 (1966). * [15] R. S.
Hayano, Y. J. Uemura, J. Imazato, N. Nishida, T. Yamazaki, and R. Kubo,
Phys. Rev. B **20**, 850 (1979). * [16] E. H. Brandt, Phys. Rev. B
**68**, 054506 (2003). * [17] R. Prozorov and R. W. Giannetta,
Supercond. Sci. Technol. **19**, R41 (2006). * [18] J. F. Annett, Adv.
Phys. **39**, 83 (1990). * [19] G. M. Pang, M. Smidman, W. B. Jiang, J.
K. Bao, Z. F. Weng, Y. F. Wang, L. Jiao, J. L. Zhang, G. H. Cao, and H.
Q. Yuan, Phys. Rev. B **91**, 220502(R) (2015). * [20] A. Carrington and
F. Manzano, Physica C **385**, 205 (2003).

Figure 15: Temperature T dependence of the muon spin relaxation rate
$\sigma_{\rm sc}$ for Ru_(0.75)Rh_(0.25)As collected in an applied
transverse field of 30 mT in the field-cooled state. The solid curve
represents the fit for an isotropic single gap s-wave model according to
Eq. (9).
