# Superconductivity in the ternary nickel silicide Lu₂Ni₃Si₅

Chandan Mazumdar

Present Address: Department of Physics, University of California,
Berkeley, CA 94720-3840, USA.

K. Ghosh

S. Ramakrishnan

R. Nagarajan

L. C. Gupta

and G. Chandra

Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, Bombay 400 005, India

B. D. Padalia

Department of Physics, Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay 400 076,
India

R. Vijayaraghavan

Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, Bombay 400 005, India

8 August 1994

###### Abstract

The synthesis and results of electrical-resistivity (1.5−300 K),
ac-magnetic-susceptibility (1.5−5 K), and specific-heat (1.7−30 K)
measurements are reported on a ternary rare-earth-nickel-silicide
compound Lu₂Ni₃Si₅. The compound is found to be superconducting below
2.1 K. The magnetic-susceptibility measurements show the onset of
diamagnetism at 2.1 K and the resistivity goes to zero at 2.0 K with the
same onset temperature. The resistivity above the transition temperature
shows a metallic behavior. A deviation from linear resistivity at high
temperatures implies a short mean free path. The heat capacity shows a
jump with a peak at 1.9 K, which indicates bulk superconducting ordering
in this sample. The estimated value for γ(=C_(p)/T as T→0) is 5.8 mJ/Lu
mol K² and ΔC_(p)/γT_(c) is 1.1, which is lower than the BCS value of
1.43. From these results, we conclude that Lu₂Ni₃Si₅ is a weak-coupling
BCS superconductor.

## I Introduction

After the discovery of high temperature superconductivity in ceramic
systems,[1] interest in the conventional intermetallic superconductors
has somewhat declined. Intermetallic superconductors are still of
relevance. In the area of applications, intermetallic superconductors
have an advantage over ceramic superconductors as they are much less
brittle compared to ceramics and therefore can be drawn in the form of
wires. Recently we discovered superconductivity in Ni-containing
quaternary Y-Ni-B-C systems at an elevated temperature (T_(c)∼ 12 K).[2,
3, 4] Replacing Ni by Pd has led to the multiphase Y-Pd-B-C system,
which has a large T_(c) for bulk intermetallics (T_(c)∼23 K,[5]T_(c)∼22
K (Ref. [6]). Interest in intermetallic superconductors has been revived
because of these studies. Although these materials do not have as high a
T_(c) as ceramic superconductors, their T_(c)’s are comparable to those
of other oxide materials, such as BaPb_(1 − x)Bi_(x)O₃ (T_(c)∼ 13 K)[7]
or even the Ba-La-Cu-O (T_(c)∼ 30 K) system.[1] As a consequence of
these results, there are expectations of new intermetallic
superconductors with higher T_(c)’s. Continuing with our search of
Ni-containing superconductors, we observed superconductivity at about 2
K in the material Lu₂Ni₃Si₅. In this paper we present our results on the
measurements of the superconducting properties of this material.

In the past, a lot of attention had been given to ternary
superconductors, particularly to the series R₂Fe₃Si₅, because of their
relatively high T_(c)’s even though magnetic element Fe constitutes 30
at.

When Fe is completely replaced by Ni in R₂Fe₃Si₅ (R =Y, Ce, Dy), the
structure changes from tetragonal (space group P4/mmc) to orthorhombic
U₂Co₃Si₅ structure (space group Ibam).[12] In our continuing studies of
the physical properties of the series R₂Ni₃Si₅ (R = rare earth, Y), we
showed that R-ions in Ce₂Ni₃Si₅ and in Eu₂Ni₃Si₅ are in a
valence-fluctuating state.[13, 14] The other members of the series
R₂Ni₃Si₅ (R = Ce−Nd, Sm−Ho) also form in the orthorhombic U₂Co₃Si₅
structure. All of them, except for Ce₂Ni₃Si₅ and Eu₂Ni₃Si₅, order
magnetically.[15, 16, 17] However, a change in structural pattern has
been observed in R₂Ni₃Si₅ beyond R = Ho.[18] These materials tend to
form in a monoclinic structure. In this paper, we report the synthesis
of Lu₂Ni₃Si₅. ac-susceptibility, resistivity, and heat-capacity results
show that Lu₂Ni₃Si₅ undergoes bulk superconducting ordering below 2 K.

## II Experimental

The compound Lu₂Ni₃Si₅ was synthesized by melting together
stoichiometric amounts of constituent elements of high purity (Lu ⇒99.9

## III Results and Discussion

The room temperature powder-x-ray-diffraction (XRD) pattern of Lu₂Ni₃Si₅
(Fig. 1) shows a few extra lines that could not be indexed in terms of
the U₂Co₃Si₅-type structure (space group _Ibam_); the pattern looks very
much similar to that of other members of the series R₂Ni₃Si₅ (R = Ce−Nd,
Sm−Ho). An effort to fit (by the Rietveld refinement procedure) the XRD
pattern with the U₂Co₃Si₅-type structure led to the following lattice
parameters: a = 9.604 A, b = 11.014 A, and c = 5.512 A. Here it should
be pointed out that in most of the cases, where lighter members of a
rare-earth series of compounds form in the U₂Co₃Si₅-type structure,
compounds with heavy rare-earth elements form in the monoclinic
variation of the U₂Co₃Si₅-type structure–commonly referred to as the
Lu₂Co₃Si₅-type structure (space group _C2_/c) [20]. Rietveld refinement
of the XRD data of Lu₂Ni₃Si₅ (assuming atomic positions to be the same
as those in the case of Lu₂Co₃Si₅) though gave a better fit and
accounted for more lines (except a few small lines of intensity ≤15

The ac magnetic susceptibility of Lu₂Ni₃Si₅ in the temperature range 1.5
to 5.0 K (Fig. 2) shows a diamagnetic behavior below 2.1 K. This
behavior has been confirmed on the sample from the second batch also.
The dc resistance of the material shows a drop at T_(c)(onset) = 2.1 K
and goes to zero at 2.0 K. Both of these measurements establish the
superconducting state below 2.1 K (Fig. 3). Above the superconducting
transition, the material shows a metallic behavior. However, unlike
Y₂Ni₃Si₅ , where the resistivity behavior is almost linear in the
high-temperature range [13], the resistivity data of Lu₂Ni₃Si₅ show a
deviation from linear temperature dependence, which is possibly because
of a smaller mean free path. It is understandable, as Lu ions have a
smaller size than Y ions. Such a deviation from linear temperature
dependence has been seen in many alloys, in which cases a saturation is
also observed at high temperature. The saturation is attributed to the
high value of ρ of these alloys at high temperatures. This behavior has
also been seen in previous studies on silicides [21].

One of the models that describes the deviation of ρ(T)

Figure 1: Room-temperature powder-x-ray-diffraction pattern of
Lu₂Ni₃Si₅. The upper bars correspond to the positions of XRD peaks
permitted by the space group _C2_/c, while the lower bars correspond the
positions permitted by space group _Ibam_.

Figure 3: Resistivity of Lu₂Ni₃Si₅ from 1.5 to 300 K. The solid line is
a fit to Eq. (2). The insets show the superconducting transition and a
T³ dependence of ρ(T) at low temperatures. Solid lines are fit to the
models (see text).

from linear behavior at high temperatures (50<T< 300 K in our case) in a
nonmagnetic material, is the parallel resistor model.[22] In this model,
the expression of ρ(T) is given by

$$\frac{1}{\rho(T)}=\frac{1}{\rho_{1}(T)}+\frac{1}{\rho_{\rm max}},$$
(1)

where $\rho_{\rm max}$ is the saturation resistivity that is independent
of temperature and ρ₁(T) is the ideal temperature-dependent resistivity.
The ideal resistivity is given by the following expression:

$$\rho_{1}(T)=\rho_{0}+C_{1}\left(\frac{T}{\Theta_{D}}\right)^{n}\int_{0}^{\Theta _{D}/T}\frac{x^{n}dx}{[1-\exp(-x)][\exp(x)-1]}\ ,$$
(2)

where ρ(0) is the residual resistivity. The second term is due to
phonon-assisted electron scattering similar to the s-d scattering in
transition-metal alloys where x = ℏ ν/kT and ν is the phonon frequency.
The value of n is 3 for the Wilson model of s-d scattering[23, 24] and
is 5 for the Bloch-Grueniesen model.[23, 24]Θ_(D) is the Debye
temperature and C₁ is a numerical constant. The resistivity data were
fit to the above equations in the range 50-300 K. We get a better fit
with n = 3. It may be noted that both the models give a linear
temperature dependence at high temperatures. The fit yielded ρ₀ = 12μΩ
cm and Θ_(D) = 365 K, which is close to the value measured by the
heat-capacity study (see below). The resistivity data at low
temperatures (3<T<30 K) were fit to the expression

ρ(T) = ρ₀ + AT^(m),

where ρ₀ is the residual resistivity and A is a constant. We get a good
fit for m = 3. Thus, the low-temperature resistivity shows a T³
dependence, as expected from the s-d scattering model.[23, 24]

The heat capacity of Lu₂Ni₃Si₅, shows a jump with a peak at 1.9 K
confirming the bulk nature of superconductivity (Fig. 4). The
temperature coefficient of the electronic heat capacity, γ, was obtained
from the extrapolation of heat-capacity data in the temperature range
3-30 K to T = 0 K. The specific-heat data have been fit to the equation

C_(p)/T = γ + βT² + δT⁴.
(3)

A fit to this equation gives a value of γ = 5.8 mJ/mol K², β = 0.42
mJ/mol K⁴, and δ = 6.7 × 10⁻⁴ mJ/mol K⁶. The anharmonic term δ was
observed in the R₂Fe₃Si₅ system also.[25] Using the relation

$$\Theta_{D}=\left(\frac{1944\times 10^{3}N}{\beta}\right)^{1/3}$$
(4)

(where N is the number of atoms per formula unit, β is in mJ/mol K⁴, and
Θ_(D) is in kelvin) Θ_(D) was obtained as 359 K.

In order to get further insight into the superconducting behavior of
Lu₂Ni₃Si₅, we calculated ΔC/γT at T=T_(c) and found it to be 1.1. This
value is sufficiently close to (∼ 80

It is not clear to us if Ni atoms in Lu₂Ni₃Si₅ carry any moment as we
have not performed any dc magnetic measurements on Lu₂Ni₃Si₅. Our dc
magnetic susceptibility of Y₂Ni₃Si₅ could be fit with an effective
moment of 0.27μ_(B)/formula unit, which is equivalent to 0.16μ_(B)/Ni
ion.[13] However, in the orthorhombic U₂Co₃Si₅-type structure, there are
two nonequivalent Ni sites and there is a possibility of two Ni sites
having different moments. The same is true in the monoclinic
Lu₂Co₃Si₅-type structure also. dc magnetic measurements and other
spectroscopic techniques are required to resolve this issue in
Lu₂Ni₃Si₅.

## IV Conclusions

In conclusion, we have shown that the material Lu₂Ni₃Si₅ is a bulk
superconductor with T_(c)∼ 2 K. There are only three nickel-based
ternary superconductors known, Ni₂NbAl (T_(c) = 2.15 K), Ni₂NbGa
(T_(c) = 1.54 K), and Ni₂NbSn (T_(c) = 2.90 K).[26] Lu₂Ni₃Si₅ is a
nickel-based superconducting ternary rare-earth compound. In Lu₂Fe₃Si₅
(tetragonal structure), Fe atoms do not carry any magnetic moment, i.e.
the Fe d band is completely filled. It is known that small amounts of Ni
suppress T_(c) in Lu₂Fe₃Si₅.[11] However, in structurally different
Lu₂Ni₃Si₅, one observes superconductivity which suggests that the
crystal structure plays a role in sustaining superconductivity in this
compound. In this context it will be of interest to study the effect of
Fe in Lu₂Ni₃Si₅. Such studies are in progress. Finally, it is important
to know if Ni atoms in Lu₂Ni₃Si₅ have a moment. This needs further
study.

Figure 4: Temperature dependence of specific heat of Lu₂Ni₃Si₅ from 1.7
to 30 K. The inset shows an expanded plot at low temperatures. The solid
line is a fit to Eq. (3).

* [1] Permanent address: Department of Physics, Indian Institute of
Technology, Bombay 400 076, India. * [2] J.G. Bednorz and K.A. Muller,
Z. Phys. B **64**, 189 (1986). * [3] Chandan Mazumdar, R. Nagarajan, C.
Godart, L.C. Gupta, M. Latroche, S.K. Dhar, C. Levy-Clement, B.D.
Padalia, and R. Vijayaraghavan, Solid State Commun. **87**, 413
(1993). * [4] R. Nagarajan, Chandan Mazumdar, Zakif Hossain, S.K. Dhar,
K.V. Gopalakrishnan, L.C. Gupta, C. Godart, B.D. Padalia, and R.
Vijayaraghavan, Phys. Rev. Lett. **72**, 274 (1994). * [5] L.C. Gupta,
R. Nagarajan, C. Godart, S.K. Dhar, Chandan Mazumdar, Zakif Hossain, C.
Levy-Clement, B.D. Padalia, and R. Vijayaraghavan, Physica C (to be
published), and references therein. * [6] R.J. Cava, H. Takagi, B.
Battlog, H.W. Zandbergen, J.J. Krajewski, W.F. Peck, Jr., R.B. van
Dover, R.J. Felder, T. Siegrist, K. Mizuhashi, J.O. Lee, H. Eisaki, S.A.
Carter, and S. Uchida, Nature **367**, 146 (1994). * [7] Zakif Hossain,
L.C. Gupta, Chandan Mazumdar, R. Nagarajan, S.K. Dhar, C. Godart, C.
Levy-Clement, B.D. Padalia, and R. Vijayaraghavan, Solid State Commun.
**92**, 341 (1994). * [8] A.W. Sleight, J.L. Gillson, and P.E.
Bierstedt, Solid State Commun. **17**, 27 (1975). * [9] H.F. Braun,
Phys. Lett. **75A**, 386 (1980). * [10] H.F. Braun, C.U. Segre, F.
Acker, M. Rosenberg, S. Dey, and P. Deppe, J. Magn. Magn. Mater. **25**,
117 (1981). * [11] D.C. Johnston and H.F. Braun, in _Superconductivity
in Ternary Compounds II_, edited by M.B. Maple and ∅. Fischer
(Springer-Verlag, Berlin, 1982). * [12] Youwen Xu and R.N. Shelton,
Solid State Commun. **68**, 395 (1988). * [13] B. Chabot and E. Parthe,
J. Less Common Met. **97**, 285 (1984). * [14] Chandan Mazumdar, R.
Nagarajan, S.K. Dhar, L.C. Gupta, R. Vijayaraghavan, and B.D. Padalia,
Phys. Rev. B **46**, 9009 (1992). * [15] Sujata Patil, R. Nagarajan,
L.C. Gupta, C. Godart, R. Vijayaraghavan, and B.D. Padalia, Phys. Rev. B
**37**, 7708 (1988). * [16] Chandan Mazumdar, R. Nagarajan, L.C. Gupta,
R. Vijayaraghavan, C. Godart, and B.D. Padalia, J. Appl. Phys. **75**,
7155 (1994). * [17] Chandan Mazumdar, R. Nagarajan, L.C. Gupta, R.
Vijayaraghavan, C. Godart, and B.D. Padalia, IEEE Trans. Magn. (to be
published). * [18] Chandan Mazumdar, R. Nagarajan, L.C. Gupta, B.D.
Padalia, and R. Vijayaraghavan, Physica B (to be published). * [19]
Chandan Mazumdar _et al._ (unpublished). * [20] S. Ramakrishnan, S.
Sundaram, R.S. Pandit, and Girish Chandra, J. Phys. E **18**, 650
(1985). * [21] B. Chabot and E. Parthe, J. Less-Common Met. **106**, 53
(1985). * [22] S. Ramakrishnan, K. Ghosh, and Girish Chandra, Phys. Rev.
B **45**, 1076 (1992). * [23] H. Weismann, M. Gurvitch, H. Lutz, A.
Ghosh, B. Schwarz, M. Strongin, P.B. Allen, and J.W. Halley, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **38**, 782 (1977). * [24] R. Caton and R. Viswanathan, Phys. Rev.
B **25**, 179 (1982). * [25] M. Ziman, _Electrons and Phonons, The
Theory of Transport Phenomena in Solids_ (Clarendon, Oxford, 1960). *
[26] C. B. Vining, R.N. Shelton, H.F. Braun, and M. Pelizzone, Phys.
Rev. B **27**, 2800 (1983). * [27] S. Waki, Y. Yamaguchi, and K.
Mitsugi, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **54**, 1673 (1985).
