Possible multigap superconductivity and magnetism in single crystals of
superconducting La₂Pt₃Ge₅ and Pr₂Pt₃Ge₅

N. H. Sung,¹ C. J. Roh,² K. S. Kim,³ and B. K. Cho^(1, 2,^(*))

¹School of Materials Science and Engineering, Gwangju Institute of
Science and Technology (GIST), Gwangju 500-712, Korea

²Department of Photonics and Applied Physics, Gwangju Institute of
Science and Technology (GIST), Gwangju 500-712, Korea

³Semiconductor Laboratory, Samsung Advanced Institute of Technology
(SAIT), Yongin 446-712, Korea

27 July 20120124 December 2012

###### Abstract

We herein describe our investigation of the superconducting and magnetic
properties of the rare-earth ternary germanide intermetallic compounds
La₂Pt₃Ge₅ and Pr₂Pt₃Ge₅. Single crystals of La₂Pt₃Ge₅ and Pr₂Pt₃Ge₅ were
synthesized using the high-temperature metal wire method. Both types of
crystal formed in a U₂Co₃Si₅-type orthorhombic structure (space group
Ibahn). La₂Pt₃Ge₅ showed the onset of superconducting phase transition
at T_(c) = 8.1 K, which, to the best of our knowledge, is the highest
T_(c) of all the R₂M₃X₅ (R = rare-earth elements, M = transition metal,
and X = s-p metal) superconductors, and from the specific heat data, it
was found to have multigap superconductivity. Pr₂Pt₃Ge₅ showed both a
superconducting phase transition at T_(c) = 7.8 K and two
antiferromagnetic transitions at T_(N1) = 3.5 K and T_(N2) = 4.2 K,
which indicates the coexistence of superconductivity and magnetism.
However, the correlation between the superconductivity and the magnetism
was too weak to be observed. In its normal state, Pr₂Pt₃Ge₅ revealed
strong magnetic anisotropy, probably due to the crystalline electric
field effect.

doi:10.1103/PhysRevB.86.224507

## I Introduction

R₂T₃X₅ (R = rare-earth elements, M = transition metal, and X = s-p
metal, also known as "235 compounds") have been investigated for
decades, because of their interesting magnetic [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8,
9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15] and superconducting properties. [8, 9, 10,
11, 12, 13, 14, 15] Most magnetic 235 compounds exhibit a number of
interesting properties, such as antiferromagnetic (AF) ordering, [2, 3,
4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15] metamagnetic phase transition
(MMT), [5, 6] high magnetoresistance (MR), [6, 10] the crystalline
electric field effect (CEF), [4, 12] Kondo lattice, [14, 10, 11, 12] and
heavy-fermion (HF) behavior. [5, 10, 14] These interesting
characteristics lead these compounds to studies of various novel ground
states by the substitution of different elements in them. For example,
Ce₂Rh₃Ge₅ shows AF ordering with HF behavior, and Pr₂Rh₃Ge₅ shows HF
behavior without any phase transition, while Pr₂Pd₃Ge₅ only shows AF
ordering and MMT. [5, 6, 10] Moreover, superconductivity occurs when
pressure is applied to Ce₂Ni₃Ge₅, which has AF ordering, and reentrant
superconducting behavior is observed in Tm₂Fe₅Si₅, where AF ordering
affects the superconductivity. [13, 14] Among the superconducting 235
compounds, Lu₂Fe₅Si₅ has been the focus of particularly intensive
research because of its relatively high superconducting phase transition
temperature of T_(c)∼ 6 K and its two-gap superconducting structure.
[17] More recently, fully opened superconducting gaps were confirmed by
measuring specific heat, [18] penetration depth, [19] and thermal
conductivity. [20] Furthermore, different anisotropies of the two bands
in Lu₂Fe₅Si₅ was also recently reported. [21] Because of their various
interesting properties, the search for new 235 compounds that might
possess higher T_(c) with magnetic ordering is of great importance to
the study of superconductivity, magnetism and the relationship between
them.

In the compound R₂Fe₅Si₅, Fe atoms have no magnetic moment, but rather
build large densities of states at the Fermi level, [13] we were
therefore motivated to induce a larger density of the d-state by
substituting Pt in the Fe sites. In the present study, we report the
discovery of superconductivity (possibly with multigap) in La₂Pt₃Ge₅,
which has the highest transition temperature (T_(c) = 8.1 K) of all the
235 compounds, and we also show that Pr₂Pt₃Ge₅ has both
superconductivity at T_(c) = 7.8 K and AF orderings at T_(N1) = 3.5 K
and T_(N2) = 4.2 K, which indicates the coexistence of superconductivity
and magnetism.

## II Experimental details

Single crystals of La₂Pt₃Ge₅ and Pr₂Pt₃Ge₅ were grown by the
high-temperature flux method using a Pt-Ge mixture as a self-flux.
Pieces of La (99.9

## III Results and discussion

Several crystals were pulverized in order to obtain powder XRD results
for La₂Pt₃Ge₅ and Pr₂Pt₃Ge₅ (see Fig. 1). The structure of the compounds
were formed in U₂Co₃Si₃-type orthorhombic structure (space group Ibam).
By refining the powder XRD data, the lattice parameters were determined
to be a = 10.1508(5) A, b = 12.0300(2) A, and c = 6.2709(2) A for
La₂Pt₃Ge₅, and a = 10.1333(5) A, b = 11.8600(1) A, and c = 6.2288(6) A
for Pr₂Pt₃Ge₅, as shown in Figs. 1(a) and 1(b). The insets of Fig. 1
show the morphological shape of the single crystals of La₂Pt₃Ge₅ and
Pr₂Pt₃Ge₅. SEM images showed large flat surfaces with minor impurities
on the surface of each sample (not shown here), and a quantitative
analysis of the EDX spectra was used to estimate the composition of
La_(2, 1)Pt_(2.8)Ge_(5.1) and Pr_(2, 1)Pt_(2.9)Ge_(5.0), which were
close to the ideal chemical compositions of the crystals within an
acceptable margin of error.

The temperature-dependent magnetization of La₂Pt₃Ge₅ and Pr₂Pt₃Ge₅
single crystals was measured and plotted in Fig. 2. Measurements of
magnetization were performed with H = 10 Oe with zero-field cooling
(ZFC) and field-cooling warmup (FCW) processes with the field parallel
and perpendicular to the a axis for La₂Pt₃Ge₅ and to the c axis for
Pr₂Pt₃Ge₅; see Figs. 2(a) and 2(b), respectively. Bulk superconductivity
was confirmed in both compounds and the superconducting transition
temperatures were found to be T_(c) = 8.1 K for La₂Pt₃Ge₅ and
T_(c) = 7.8 K for Pr₂Pt₃Ge₅. Interestingly, these values of T_(c) are
very similar to those of other R-Pt-Ge ternary compounds, LaPt₄Ge₁₂
(T_(c) = 8.3 K) and PrPt₄Ge₁₂ (T_(c) = 7.9 K).[22] It may be seen that
both La₂Pt₃Ge₅ and Pr₂Pt₃Ge₅ are typical type-II superconductors with
low H_(c1) values, and that relatively large magnetic anisotropy was
observed in Pr₂Pt₃Ge₅, while no anisotropy was seen in La₂Pt₃Ge₅, as
shown in the insets of Figs. 2(a) and 2(b). Isothermal magnetization was
measured as a function of the magnetic field at T = 2 K for single
crystals of La₂Pt₃Ge₅ and Pr₂Pt₃Ge₅, as shown in Figs. 3(a) and 3(b),
respectively. In the ab plane of Pr₂Pt₃Ge₅, there are magnetic phase
transitions around H = 18 and 24 kOe [see Fig. 3(b)], and the Meissner
effect and vortex pinning may be seen in the low-field region [the inset
of Fig. 3(b)]. We also observed magnetic hysteresis around H = 18 kOe,
which implies a first order phase transition. The saturated magnetic
moment at H = 5 T ($M_{s}\approx 1\mu_{\rm B}$) is smaller than the
theoretical Hund’s rule ground state, gμ_(B)J for an isolated Pr³⁺ ion
($3.58\,\mu_{\rm B}/\rm Pr^{3+}$), which is similar to the isostructural
compounds, Pr₂Pt₃Ge₅ and

Figure 1: (Color online) Powder XRD pattern of pulverized single
crystals (black solid line) and refinement results (red solid line) of
(a) La₂Pt₃Ge₅ and (b) Pr₂Pt₃Ge₅. The insets in (a) and (b) show the
morphology of single crystals of La₂Pt₃Ge₅ and Pr₂Pt₃Ge₅, respectively.

Figure 2: Temperature dependence of magnetization in zero-field-cooled
(ZFC) and field-cooled-warming (FCW) modes: (a) for La₂Pt₃Ge₅, single
crystal with applied field of H = 10 Oe being parallel (H ∥ a) and
perpendicular (H ∥ bc) to the a axis, and (b) for Pr₂Pt₃Ge₅ single
crystal with applied field of H = 10 Oe being parallel (H ∥ c) and
perpendicular (H ∥ ab) to the c axis. Insets of (a) and (b): expended
plots around T_(c) of La₂Pt₃Ge₅ and Pr₂Pt₃Ge₅, respectively.

$\rm Pr_{2}Ni_{3}Ge_{5}$.[5, 6] We believe that such a large magnetic
anisotropy as well as low $M_{\rm z}$ value (≈1$\mu_{\rm B}$) is
probably due to the CEF effect.

Figure 4(a) shows the dc magnetization divided by the magnetic field, in
the low-temperature region, and Fig. 4(b) shows the inverse dc
magnetization divided by the magnetic field, in terms of temperature at
H = 1 kOe with the field parallel (H∥c) and perpendicular (H∥ab) to the
c axis for $\rm Pr_{2}Pt_{3}Ge_{5}$. In Fig. 4(a), the magnetization in
the ab plane was found to be larger than that along the c axis. For
H∥ab, magnetic phase transitions were observed at T_(N1) = 3.5 K and
T_(N2) = 4.2 K, while the diamagnetic superconducting signal was
observed near T_(N1) = 3.5 K for H∥c. By measuring the ZFC and FCW
processes in the ab plane at H = 1 kOe, we were able to observe magnetic
hysteresis because of the Meissner effect. It is therefore likely that
magnetic ordering and superconductivity coexist with magnetic anisotropy
in single crystals of $\rm Pr_{2}Pt_{3}Ge_{5}$. The quite similar
magnetic characteristics of anisotropy and two magnetic transitions was
also observed in $\rm Pr_{2}Pt_{3}Ge_{5}$, indicating that the two
compounds of $\rm Pr_{2}Pt_{3}Ge_{5}$ and $\rm Pr_{2}Pd_{3}Ge_{5}$ have
the almost same magnetic structure, although the former is
superconducting and the latter is not.[5] In Fig. 4(b), the
magnetizations for both directions follow the temperature dependence of
the Curie Weiss law at high temperatures (150 K ≤T≤ 300 K). By fitting
the data to the Curie Weiss law, the effective magnetic moment was
estimated to be $\mu_{\rm eff}(H$∥c) = 3.69 $\mu_{\rm B}/\rm Pr$ and
$\mu_{\rm eff}(H$∥ab) = 3.65 $\mu_{\rm B}/\rm Pr$ for the field parallel
and perpendicular to the c axis, respectively. The values are comparable
to the $\mu_{\rm eff}$ values for an isolated $\rm Pr^{3+}$ ion. The
Weiss temperatures were also estimated to be θ(H∥c) = −40.35 K and
θ(H∥ab) = −54.63 K. The large difference between θ(H∥c) and θ(H∥ab), and
the anisotropy below T≤ 150 K, as shown in Fig. 3(b), are believed to be
due to the CEF effect, where the environmental charges around
$\rm Pr^{3+}$ ions produce a local electric field.

Figure 5 shows the temperature-dependent electrical resistivity in a
zero field, with a current parallel to the ab plane for
$\rm La_{2}Pt_{3}Ge_{5}$ and to the c axis for $\rm Pr_{2}Pt_{3}Ge_{5}$.
The resistivity in the normal state exhibits metallic behavior in the
temperature range 9 K ≤T≤ 300 K for both compounds. The inset of Fig. 5
is an expanded plot in the low temperature region, which shows the
superconducting phase transitions

Figure 4: (a) Magnetization of $\rm Pr_{2}Pt_{3}Ge_{5}$ single crystal,
divided by field of H = 1 kOe, M/H in terms of temperature at
low-temperature region and (b) inverse magnetization of
$\rm Pr_{2}Pt_{3}Ge_{5}$ single crystal, divided by field of H = 1 kOe,
H/M in terms of temperature in a temperature range 2 K ≤T≤ 300 K: close
and open symbols for field perpendicular (H∥ab) and parallel (H∥c) to
the c axis, respectively.

Figure 3: Isothermal magnetization at T = 2 K: (a) for
$\rm La_{2}Pt_{3}Ge_{5}$ single crystal with applied field being
parallel (H∥a) and perpendicular (H∥bc) to the a axis, and (b) a
$\rm Pr_{2}Pt_{3}Ge_{5}$ single crystal with applied field being
parallel (H∥c) and perpendicular (H∥ab) to the c axis. Inset of (b):
expended plot in a low field region (H∥ab).

at T_(c) = 8.1 and 7.8 K for single crystals of La₂Pt₃Ge₅ and Pr₂Pt₃Ge₅,
respectively, which is consistent with the transition temperatures
obtained from the M-T data. For Pr₂Pt₃Ge₅, the resistivity below the
superconducting transition shows no discernible change, i.e., reentrance
behavior, at T = T_(N1) or T_(N2). We therefore envisage that the
magnetic fluctuation near the AF ordering does not disturb the
superconductivity in this compound, probably due to the weak interaction
between the superconductivity and the magnetism. In addition, the weak
interaction is likely to make the superconducting state coexist with a
large localized magnetic moments of Pr³⁺ ions.

Specific heat data (C_(p)) were obtained for samples with masses of 32.0
mg for La₂Pt₃Ge₅ and 14.7 mg for Pr₂Pt₃Ge₅. The results are shown in
Fig. 6(a) in which sharp peaks may be seen at T_(N1) = 3.4 K and
T_(N2) = 4.1 K for Pr₂Pt₃Ge₅, which correspond to the magnetic
transition temperatures from the M-T curve in Fig. 4(a). However, we
observed no noticeable superconducting jump either around T_(c) = 8.1 K
in La₂Pt₃Ge₅, or around 7.8 K in Pr₂Pt₃Ge₅. In order to verify the
superconducting jump at T = T_(c), we obtained the temperature-dependent
C_(p)(T) in the normal state under a magnetic field of H = 2 T, which is
higher than H_(c2) at T = 2 K, and subtracted them from the C_(p) data
in the superconducting state without magnetic field. Figure 6(b) shows
the electronic specific heat coefficient of La₂Pt₃Ge₅ at zero magnetic
field, i.e., $C_{\rm el}/T$ divided by γ_(n), plotted in terms of
T/T_(c). The specific heat jump at zero field (ΔC) relative to the
normal state specific heat (C_(n)), ΔC/γ_(n)T_(c) at T_(c) is 0.36,
which is much smaller than the value of 1.43 obtained from BCS theory.

In the inset of Fig. 6(b), we show a conventional Debye fit to the
normal state data in the temperature range 2 K  ≤ T ≤ 10 K using
$C_{p}=C_{\rm el}+C_{\rm ph}=\gamma_{n}T+\beta T^{3}+\delta T^{5}$, with
the normal state specific heat coefficient γ_(n) and the coefficients of
the phononic contribution β and δ. The parameters obtained are
γ_(n) = 4.65 mJ mol⁻¹K⁻², β = 1.18 mJ mol⁻¹ K⁻⁴, and δ = 1.03 × 10⁻² mJ
mol⁻¹ K⁻⁶. The large T⁵ term observed in the normal state specific heat
indicates a complex phonon density of states, which is similar to the
case of single crystals of Lu₂Fe₅Si₅[17, 18] and supports the
possibility of multigap superconductivity.

The reduced jump in heat capacity data is similar to that of Lu₂Fe₂Si₅,
which was verified to have two-gap superconductivity. ΔC/γ_(n)T_(c). In
addition, the almost linear temperature dependence of $C_{\rm el}/T$
below T_(c) does not represent the behavior of a conventional BCS-type
single gap but is rather an indication of a superconducting multigap.
These two characteristics are also similar to the compound LiFeAs, which
has a two-gap structure.[23, 24] We also found that the superconducting
phase transition temperature of T_(c) = 7.7 K in the measurement of
C_(p) was lower than the magnetic and electrical value of T_(c) = 8.1 K.
This characteristic of different values of T_(c) obtained using magnetic
and thermodynamic measurement was also reported for LiFeAs.[24] It is
therefore seems likely that both compounds La₂Pt₃Ge₅ and Pr₂Pt₃Ge₅ have
multigap superconductivity.

Figure 5: Temperature dependence of electrical resistivity up to T = 300
K at H = 0 Oe of Pr₂Pt₃Ge₅ single crystal (close symbols) with a current
parallel to the c axis (I ∥ c), and La₂Pt₃Ge₅ single crystal (open
symbols) with a current perpendicular to the a axis (I ∥ bc). (Inset)
Temperature-dependent resistivity in a low-temperature region.

Figure 6: (a) Specific heat of Pr₂Pt₃Ge₅ single crystal (close symbols)
and La₂Pt₃Ge₅ single crystal (open symbols) at zero field in terms of
temperature. (b) Normalized electronic specific heat coefficient of
La₂Pt₃Ge₅ single crystal. The solid lines is a guide to the eye. Inset
of (b): Specific heat of La₂Pt₃Ge₅ with applied field of H = 2 T. The
solid line is an estimated normal state specific heat from a polynomial
form (see the text).

There are other possible origins for the the reduced normalized jump at
T_(c) and the linear term below T_(c), such as impurity and
inhomogeneity. However, we could not observe any noticeable impurities
in EDX measurement but the good crystallization of the samples by single
crystal XRD measurement. Moreover, bulk superconductivity was confirmed
from magnetization measurement (see Fig. 2), i.e., over 70

The magnetic moment of Pr as extracted from the Curie-Weiss law, Fig.
4(b), suggests nearly free Pr ions, which is in marked contrast with the
moment seen at low temperatures, e.g., the magnetization would seem to
saturate at a value close to 1μ_(B), Fig. 3(b), considerably smaller
than the free magnetic moment of Pr. This suggests Kondo screening of
the magnetic moments, and therefore the development of a Kondo lattice,
in other words that this compound should behave as a heavy-fermion
compound. But this is at odds with the very small γ_(u) coefficient
extracted from heat capacity measurements, Fig. 6. The obvious
conclusion is that the small moment is likely due to the particular
crystalline electric field scheme of this compound. Therefore the Pr
moment behave as nearly localized moments even in the low-temperature
limit where superconductivity emerges. Superconducting state might
coexist with such a large local moment likely due to weak interaction
between superconducting pairs and local magnetic moments. The
coexistence of superconductivity and magnetism can be found in many
magnetic superconducting compounds. For example, ErNi₂B₂C, which is one
of the well-known borocarbide superconductors, has superconducting
transition at T_(c) = 10.5 K and antiferromagnetic ordering temperature
at T_(N) = 5.85 K, where Er has larger value of free magnetic moment
than Pr.[25]

## IV Summary

Single crystals of the ternary germanide superconductors La₂Pt₃Ge₅ and
Pr₂Pt₃Ge₅ were successfully fabricated using a metal self-flux method.
Magnetization, electrical resistivity, and heat capacity were measured
with the field along specific crystallographic directions. La₂Pt₃Ge₅
exhibited the onset of a superconducting phase transition at T_(c) = 8.1
K, which is the highest T_(c) of all the 235-type superconductors.
Measurement of specific heat showed that there was substantial evidence
of multigap superconductivity, such as the small value (=0.36) of
ΔC/γ_(u)T_(c), the linear decrease of superconducting electronic
specific heat, and a complex phonon density of states. Pr₂Pt₃Ge₅ shows
the coexistence of superconductivity (T_(c) = 7.8 K) and an
antiferromagnetically ordered state (T_(N1) = 3.5 K and T_(N2) = 4.2 K),
and no observable correlation between superconductivity and magnetism.

###### Acknowledgements.

We would like to thank Y. M. Jang for the assistance in the heat
capacity measurement. This study was supported by the Ministry of
Education, Science and Technology of the Republic of Korea
(2011-0028736), and the National Research Foundation of Korea (NRF)
(Grant No. R15-2008-006-01002-0).

## References

* [1] Yogesh Singh and S. Ramakrishnan, Phys. Rev. B **68**, 054419
(2003). * [2] Yogesh Singh, S. Ramakrishnan, Z. Hossain, and C. Geibel,
Phys. Rev. B **66**, 014415 (2002). * [3] Z. Hossain, S. Hamashima, K.
Umeo, T. Takabatake, C. Geibel, and F. Steglich, Phys. Rev. B **62**,
8950 (2000). * [4] N. S. Sangeetha, A. Thamizhavel, C. V. Tomy, Saurabh
Basu, S. Ramakrishnan, and D. Pal, Phys. Rev. B **84**, 064430 (2011). *
[5] V. K. Anand, Z. Hossain, and C. Geibel, Phys. Rev. B **77**, 184407
(2008). * [6] V. K. Anand, A. K. Nandy, S. K. Dhar, C. Geibel, and Z.
Hossain, J. Magn. Magn. Mater. **313**, 164 (2007). * [7] B. Becker, S.
Ramakrishnan, D. Groten, S. Sullow, C. C. Mattheus, G. J. Nieuwenhuys,
and J. A. Mydosh, Physica B **230-232**, 253 (1997). * [8] S.
Ramakrishnan, N. G. Patil, Aravind D. Chinchure, and V. R. Marathe,
Phys. Rev. B **64**, 064514 (2001). * [9] Yogesh Singh, D. Pal, and S.
Ramakrishnan, Phys. Rev. B **70**, 064403 (2004). * [10] Z. Hossain, H.
Ohmoto, K. Umeo, F. Iga, T. Suzuki, T. Takabatake, N. Takamoto, and K.
Kindo, Phys. Rev. B **60**, 10383 (1999). * [11] N. G. Patil and S.
Ramakrishnan, Phys. Rev. B **59**, 12054 (1999). * [12] Yogesh Singh and
S. Ramakrishnan, Phys. Rev. B **69**, 174423 (2004). * [13] J. A.
Gotaas, J. W. Lynn, R. N. Shelton, P. Klavins, and H. F. Braun, Phys.
Rev. B **56**, 7277 (1987). * [14] M. Nakashima, H. Kohara, A.
Thamizhavel, T. D. Matsuda, Y. Haga, M. Hedo, Y. Uwatoko, R. Settai, and
Y. Onuki, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter **17**, 4539 (2005). * [15] S.
Noguchi and K. Okuda, Physica B **194-196**, 1975 (1994). * [16] Chandan
Mazumdar, K. Ghosh, S. Ramakrishnan, R. Nagarajan, L. C. Gupta, G.
Chandra, B. D. Padalia, and R. Vijayaraghavan, Phys. Rev. B **50**,
13879 (1994). * [17] C. B. Vining, R. N. Shelton, H. F. Braun, and M.
Pelizzone, Phys. Rev. B **27**, 2800 (1983). * [18] Y. Nakajima, T.
Nakagawa, T. Tamegai, and H. Harima, Phys. Rev. Lett. **100**, 157001
(2008). * [19] R. T. Gordon, M. D. Vannette, C. Martin, Y. Nakajima, T.
Tamegai, and R. Prozorov, Phys. Rev. B **78**, 024514 (2008). * [20] Y.
Machida, S. Sakai, K. Izawa, H. Okuyama, and T. Watanabe, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **106**, 107002 (2011). * [21] Yasuyuki Nakajima, Hikaru Hidaka,
Tsuyoshi Nakagawa, Tsuyoshi Tamegai, Terukazu Nishizaki, Takahiko
Sasaki, and Norio Kobayashi, Phys. Rev. B **85**, 174524 (2012).

* (22) R. Gumeniuk, W. Schnelle, H. Rosner, M. Nicklas, A.
Leithe-Jasper, and Yu. Grin, Phys. Rev. Lett. **100**, 017002 (2008). *
(23) Dong-Jin Jang, J. B. Hong, Y. S. Kwon, T. Park, K. Gofryk, F.
Ronning, J. D. Thompson, and Yunkyu Bang, Phys. Rev. B **85**, 180505
(2012). * (24) U. Stockert, M. Abdel-Hafiez, D. V. Evtushinsky, V. B.
Zabolotnyy, A. U. B. Wolter, S. Wurmehl, I. Morozov, R. Klingeler, S. V.
Borisenko, and B. Buchner, Phys. Rev. B **83**, 224512 (2011). * (25) B.
K. Cho, P. C. Canfield, L. L. Miller, D. C. Johnston, W. P. Beyermann,
and A. Yatskar, Phys. Rev. B **52**, 3684 (1995).
