Hole filling and interlayer coupling in Bi₂Sr₂Ca_(1 − x)Pr_(x)Cu₂O_(y)
single crystals

X. F. Sun

X. Zhao

Department of Materials Science and Engineering, University of Science
and Technology of China, Hefei 230026, China

and Institute of Solid State Physics, Academia Sinica, Hefei 230031,
China

H. C. Ku

Department of Physics, National Tsing Hua University, Hsinchu, Taiwan
300, China

5 October 1998

###### Abstract

Effects of Pr doping on the superconductivity and CuO₂ interlayer
coupling of the Bi2212 system were studied carefully for
Bi₂Sr₂Ca_(1 − x)Pr_(x)Cu₂O_(y) (_x_ = 0 - 0.78) single crystals. T_(c)
was suppressed gradually upon Pr substitution, which cannot be explained
in Abrikosov-Gor’kov pair-breaking theory. Instead, the variations of
T_(c) with Pr content, for both as-grown and air-annealed crystals, can
be well described by a universal parabolic relation
$T_{c}/T_{\rm max}$=1-82.6(_n_ - 0.16)2. The carrier concentration n was
proved to decrease linearly with x, which confirms that hole filling is
the main reason for T_(c) suppression. The superconducting volume
faction also decreases with Pr content and is proportional to 1 - _b_x2.
This behavior was attributed to the loss of local superconductivity and
weakening of CuO₂ interlayer coupling due to Pr substitution. The second
peak in the magnetization curves of Bi₂Sr₂Ca_(1 − x)Pr_(x)Cu₂O_(y)
crystals _B_${}_{\rm sp}$ was found to decrease with Pr content and is
described by _B_${}_{\rm sp}$= Φ₀/(sγ)² with the anisotropy factor γ=
γ₀/(1 − Ax) in terms of the dimensional crossover from three-dimensional
(3D) flux lines to 2D pancake vortices. The increase of γ with x further
demonstrates the destruction of CuO₂ interlayer coupling by Pr
substitution. [S0163-1829(99)02710-1]

## I Introduction

It is well known that the carrier concentration is the most important
parameter of high-T_(c) superconductors, which determines both the
normal state and superconducting state properties. For the 85 K
superconductor Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O_(y) (Bi2212), there have been extensive
studies on the cationic substitution of Ca by the rare-earth (_R_)
elements or Y (Refs. 1-14) to change the carrier density and to probe
the underlying mechanism of superconductivity. Experiments have
indicated that Y or rare-earth elements can substitute for Ca in Bi2212
and the doped structure does not change fundamentally, while a
transition from superconductor to insulator occurs with progressive
substitution of the rare-earth element. It was thought that hole filling
rather than Abrikosov-Gor’kov pair-breaking mechanism is responsible for
the T_(c) decrease in the _R_-doped Bi2212 system.6; 9; 10 In this
field, Pr substitution for Ca is an interesting problem, also because
the mechanism of unusual T_(c) suppression due to Pr doping in the
R1-_x_Pr_(x)Ba₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) system is still unclear.15

Footnote 15: 0163-1829/99/59(13)/8978(6)/515.00

The interlayer coupling between CuO₂ layers in high-T_(c) materials is
usually weak but plays a crucial role in the superconductivity and
vortex dynamics.16 Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O_(y) is a representative highly
anisotropic oxide with a very large anisotropic ratio γ of more than
100,17,18 which means the CuO₂ interlayer coupling of Bi2212 is very
weak. For its high anisotropy and weak interlayer coupling, Bi2212
single crystals show anomalous magnetization behavior between 20 and 40
K,19-24, which is considered as a manifestation of the dimensional
crossover from three-dimensional (3D) flux lines to 2D pancake
vortices.23; 25 The position of the anomaly, or the so-called second
peak, directly relates to anisotropy factor by B2D= Ph₀/(sγ)²,25 with
Ph₀ being the flux quantum and s being the interspacing between CuO₂
bilayers. This provides a way to obtain γ of the Bi2212 system and so
the degree of interlayer coupling. Previous results showed that oxygen
content or I intercalation would decrease the anisotropy of Bi2212
single crystals,26; 27 i.e., strengthen the interlayer coupling. Since
Ca is located in the center of the CuO₂ bilayer, the Pr substitution is
expected to destroy the local superconductivity of CuO₂ block and so
strongly affects the interlayer coupling. However, no direct
experimental results can be found for the lack of Pr-doped Bi2212 single
crystals.

For Pr-doped Bi2212 system, there have been some studies on the
structure, resistivity, Hall effect, and magnetic susceptibility, but
all were performed on the polycrystallinity samples.6; 7; 9-12 To obtain
the intrinsic physical properties of the Pr-doped Bi-2212 system,
especially the Pr-doping effect on the CuO₂ interlayer coupling and
anisotropy, study of a single crystal is necessary, which has been
absent in the literature. Recently we have successfully grown
Bi₂Sr₂Ca_(1 − x)Pr_(x)Cu₂O_(y) single crystals from Bi-rich melts.28 In
this paper, we study Pr-doping effects on the superconductivity and the
interlayer coupling of Bi₂Sr₂Ca_(1 − x)Pr_(x)Cu₂O_(y) single crystals.

## II Experiment

Bi₂Sr₂Ca_(1 − x)Pr_(x)Cu₂O_(y) single crystals were grown by a
directional solidification method with the starting composition of
2.4Bi:2.0Sr:(1 - _x_)Ca:(_x_)Pr:2.0Cu, where the nominal Pr contents
were x_(x) = 0 - 0.6 and excess Bi₂O₃ was included to act as a flux for
the crystal growth. Bi₂O₃, SrCO₃, CaCO₃, Pr₆O₁₁, and CuO (all purity ≥99

X-ray-diffraction data were collected using a rotating-anode
diffractometer (Rigaku, D/Max-γA) with graphite monochromatized Cu Kα
radiation. The dc magnetic susceptibility χ(T) and magnetization M(H)
measurements were carried out with a μ-metal-shielded Quantum Design
MPMS₂ superconducting quantum interference device magnetometer down to 5
K in applied magnetic field from 1 G to 10 kG.

## III Results and Discussions

Figure 1 shows the typical x-ray 00/ diffraction patterns of
Bi₂Sr₂Ca_(1 − x)Pr_(x)Cu₂O_(y) single crystals for x = 0.11 and 0.78.
All the Pr-doped Bi2212 (x = 0 − 0.78) single crystals have similar
x-ray-diffraction patterns as those shown in Fig. 1, which indicates
that the doped crystals possess the pure Bi2212 phase. The x-ray θ-scan
rocking curves of main reflection 0010 were also conducted to confirm
that these crystals are highly oriented. Detailed characterizations on
the structure of Bi₂Sr₂Ca_(1 − x)Pr_(x)Cu₂O_(y) single crystals have
been reported elsewhere.[29]

The variations of c-axis length with Pr content x for as-grown crystals
are shown in Fig. 2. The c-axis length decreases monotonically with the
increase of Pr content. Such a decrease in c-axis value may be due to
one or more of the following reasons. First, the oxygen content in the
system increases with Pr content for higher valence cation substitution.
The decrease in c-axis length due to the increase of oxygen content has
been reported for Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O_(y) (Refs. 30−32) or rare-earth ion
substitution at the Ca site.[9, 10, 11] Chen _et al._ had also reported
the linear increase of oxygen and the linear decrease of the c-axis
length with doping concentration for Bi₂Sr₂Ca_(1 − x)Pr_(x)Cu₂O_(y)
polycrystalline samples.[10] Second, there exist some Pr⁴⁺ ions in the
system, the ionic size of which is smaller than that of Ca²⁺ ion. As far
as the ionic sizes are concerned, the eightfold-coordinated ionic radii
of Pr³⁺ and Pr⁴⁺ are 1.126 and 0.96 A, respectively, while that of Ca²⁺
is 1.12 A. Based on the large range of variation in the c-axis length,
from 30.849 to 30.235 A for x = 0 to 0.78, it seems that the Pr exists
in the Bi2212 phase between 3+ and 4+ valence states. Third, under Pr
doping, an additional band crosses the Fermi level, grabbing holes from
the CuO pdσ band.[33] This attractive interaction, in fact, would result
in the decrease of the separation between CuO₂ layers.

All the selected crystals had been annealed in air at 360 ^(∘)C for 60 h
to improve the superconductivity. X-ray diffraction showed there is no
phase decomposition in these air-annealed crystals, which is an
outstanding characteristic for Bi2212 single crystals annealed at
temperatures higher than 400 ^(∘)C.[34, 35] The changes of c-axis length
with the Pr content for annealed crystals were also shown in Fig. 2.
While the trend of c-axis variation is same for as-grown and annealed
crystals, all the crystals shrink their c-axes after annealing in air at
360 ^(∘)C. This is due to the increase of oxygen content after annealing
crystals in air. In fact, the

Figure 3: Zero-field-cooled dc magnetic susceptibility
$\chi_{\rm z,0}(T)$ of Bi₂Sr₂Ca_(1 − x)Pr_(x)Cu₂O_(y) (x = 0.11 and
0.28) single crystals before and after air annealing at 360 ^(∘)C. The
measurements were carried out at a field of 5 G parallel to the c axis
of each crystal.

Figure 2: Changes in the c-axis length with Pr content of
Bi₂Sr₂Ca_(1 − x)Pr_(x)Cu₂O_(y) single crystals as-grown and annealed in
air at 360 ^(∘)C. The lines are linear fits to the data.

changes of c value with x can be well fitted linearly as

$$c = 30.903 - 0.868x\;\;\;(\rm{\AA})$$

for as-grown crystals and

$$c = 30.852 - 0.827x\;\;\;(\rm{\AA})$$

for annealed crystals, respectively. In these two relations, the smaller
constant term of annealed crystals directly relates to the larger oxygen
concentration. And the slower rate of c value decreasing with x for
annealed crystals means that the oxygen contents are rich after
annealing and constricts the additional increase of oxygen content due
to the increase of Pr content.

Figure 3 shows the typical temperature dependence of the
zero-field-cooled dc susceptibility for Bi2Sr2Ca1-_x_Pr_CaU2Oy crystals
measured at a field of 5 G parallel to the c axis. The superconducting
transition temperature T_(c) can be determined as the onset transition
of diamagnetic. Figure 4 gives the relation between T_(c) and the Pr
content for crystals before and after annealing. The T_(c) of as-grown
crystals are rather low and a little divergent, which were improved
greatly after annealing the crystals in air. With the increase of Pr
content for annealed crystals, T_(c) increases slightly at first, after
reaching a maximum at x = 0.11, and then drops gradually.
Superconductivity is completely suppressed when the Pr content reaches
0.45 and 0.60 for crystals as-grown and air-annealed, respectively. This
is reasonable because the oxygen content and so the carrier
concentration is higher in annealed crystals than in as-grown ones.
Next, we analyze the possible mechanism for T_(c) suppression induced by
the Pr doping.

Abrikosov and Gor’kov [36] (AG) have pointed out that the presence of
magnetic impurities in a superconductor breaks the time-reversal
symmetry that causes a strong suppression of T_(c). In the BCS limit,
the reduced transition temperature (_T__c_/_T__c_0), in the presence of
a paramagnetic impurity, is given by the relation

ln (T_(c0)/T_(c)) = Ψ(1/2 + α) − Ψ(1/2),

where _Ps_ is the digamma function and a is the pair-breaking parameter.
In AG theory, T_(c) decreases linearly with the concentration of
magnetic ions (_x_) for small values of x, with a slope proportional to
the magnitude of the exchange integral, a parameter characterizing the
strength and sign of the exchange interaction between a paramagnetic
impurity and a conduction electron. While at a large value of x, the
decrease in T_(c) is more rapid. For present results, it is clear that
the T_(c) suppression with x qualitatively deviates from the AG
pair-breaking law, which means the magnetic nature of the Pr ions does
not play an important role in the mechanism of T_(c) suppression.
Previous results on Y or rare-earth doped Bi2212 polycrystalline samples
also deny the application of the AG mechanism. [11] The alternative
explanation may be the hole-filling effect due to the higher valence
substitution of Pr ions for Ca ions.

As high-_T__c_ superconductors are usually considered to be ionic,
charges can be assigned to each of the constituent cations (metal ions)
and anions (oxygen ions). Thus, for the Pr-doped Bi2212 system, the
number of holes per copper atom would chemically be given as

n^(∞)n₁ − 0.5x,

where n1 is a constant of the oxygen and strontium deficiency dependent.
On the other hand, a well-known universal parabolic curve for describing
the relation between T_(c) and carrier density n is [37, 38]

T_(c)/T_(max) = 1 − 82.6(n − 0.16)².

This relation is valid for a wide class of high-_T__c_ materials,
regardless of the nature of the dopants. However, one cannot get a
reasonable curve by combining Eqs. (4) and (5) to fit the present
experimental data. Therefore, it is necessary to relate n to x from
experimental results. Suppose n is proportional to x, then the
relationship between T_(c) and x can be described as

T_(c)/T_(max) = 1 − 82.6(ax + b)²,

where a and b are constants. As shown in Fig. 4, Eq. (6) fits our
experimental results well for both as-grown and annealed crystals. The
fitting parameters are given in Table I. Combining Eqs. (5) and (6), we
have

n = 0.144 − 0.206x

for as-grown crystals and

n = 0.179 − 0.210x

for annealed crystals, respectively. Comparing these two relations to
Eq. (4), it can be seen that the CuO2 layers in this

Figure 4: Pr content dependence of superconducting transition
temperature T_(c) for Bi2Sr2Ca1−_x_Pr_CaU2Oy single crystals before and
after air-annealing at 360 °C. The lines are the fitting to formula
_T__c_/_T__c_max = 1 −82.6(_ax + b_)2 with parameters _T__max, a, and b
shown in Table I.

particular Pr doping benefit from less than half of the chemical doping.
This may be due to the increase of oxygen content accompanied with Pr
substitution. Anyway, Eqs. (7) and (8) indicate that the substitution of
Pr for Ca in the Bi₂Sr₂Ca_(1 − x)Pr_(x)Cu₂O_(y) system effectively
reduces the hole concentration on CuO₂ layers to the underdoped state,
i.e., the contribution to T_(c) suppression mainly comes from the
hole-filling effect. Therefore, for the annealed crystals, the x = 0 one
is in the carrier overdoping region, the x = 0.11 one is around the
optimal doping, and the x > 0.11 ones locate in the underdoping region.
Moreover, the small difference between Eqs. (7) and (8) further confirms
that the oxygen content increases for each crystal after annealing,
which is consistent with the changes in c-axis length.

As shown in Fig. 3, the superconducting volume faction of
Bi₂Sr₂Ca_(1 − x)Pr_(x)Cu₂O_(y) single crystals also decreases with
increasing Pr concentration. Figure 5 gives the changes of χ_(m)(5 K),
the magnitude of the diamagnetic at low temperature 5 K, with the Pr
content for annealed crystals. The decrease of diamagnetic magnitude
with x may relate to the destruction of CuO₂ interlayer coupling induced
by substituting Pr for Ca. In the Pr-doped Bi2212 system, the local
superconductivity is lost in the vicinity of randomly distributed Pr
ions. Then effective superconducting area shrinks strongly due to Pr
substitution, as shown in Fig. 6. The average superconducting area in
one layer destroyed by a Pr ion is proportional to doping level x.
Considering two CuO₂ layers above and below the Pr ion, the effective
superconducting volume is expected to be proportional to 1 − βx², β is a
proportional coefficient. Therefore, the χ_(m)(5 K) can be described as

χ_(m)(5  K) = χ_(m0)(1 − βx²),
(9)

where χ_(m0) is a constant. Equation (9) fits the experimental results
well with the fitting parameters χ_(m0) = 628.9 cm³/mol and β = 3.69.
Thus, the loss of local superconductivity in CuO₂ bilayers will
dramatically weaken the interlayer coupling of the Bi2212 system.

To further study the effect of Pr doping on the CuO₂ interlayer coupling
of Bi2212, the second peak in magnetization curves were studied for
annealed crystals. Figure 7 shows the typical temperature dependence of
magnetization curves for Bi₂Sr₂Ca_(1 − x)Pr_(x)Cu₂O_(y) (x = 0.17)
annealed crystals under a field parallel to the c axis. After the
crystal was zero-field cooled to an experimental temperature, the
magnetization was measured with increasing field. A second peak in
magnetization curve occurs at field B_(sp) ≈ 340 G, which is nearly
temperature dependent. This anomaly appears in the temperature regions
of 20−35 K, 20−30 K, 17.5−25 K, and 15−17.5 K for crystals x = 0, 0.11,
0.17, and 0.28, respectively. And no second peak can be observed for
crystals with x > 0.28. The second peak field B_(sp) increases weakly
with decreasing temperature, which is consistent with previous reports
on Bi2212 crystals, [19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24] but decreases dramatically
with the increase of Pr content. Figure 8 shows the magnetization curves
for Bi₂Sr₂Ca_(1 − x)Pr_(x)Cu₂O_(y) annealed crystals at 20 K for x = 0,
0.11, 0.17, and 17.5 K for x = 0.28, which ensures that the reduced
temperature T/T_(c) for each crystal is very close to each other.
Although the superconductivity of these four crystals changes from
overdoping to optimal dop

Figure 6: Schematic illustration of the coupling between two adjacent
CuO₂ bilayers in Pr-doped Bi2212. The region in the vicinity of Pr ions
is normal-like due to the Pr substitution and the coupling between CuO₂
bilayers being weakened.

Figure 5: Changes of the magnitude of the diamagnetic at 5 K with the Pr
concentration for Bi₂Sr₂Ca_(1 − x)Pr_(x)Cu₂O_(y) annealed crystals. The
line is the fitting curve using χ_(m)(5 K) = χ_(m0)(1 − βx²) with
parameters χ_(m0) = 628.9 cm³/mol and β = 3.69.

ing and then to underdoping with increasing x, _B_sp decreases
monotonically with increase of the Pr content, as shown in Fig. 9.

As for the Bi2212 system, the origin of the second peak is generally
explained as the dimensional crossover from 3D vortex lines to 2D
pancake vortices, namely, decoupling of vortices in each CuO2 bilayer.
And the dimensional cross-over field can be written as [25]

$$B_{2{\rm D}} = \Phi_{0}/(s\gamma)^{2},$$

where Ph0 is the flux quantum, s is the interspacing between two CuO2
blocks, and g = _l_c/_l_ab_ is the anisotropy parameter, where _ab_ and
_l_c are the in-plane and out-of-plane superconducting penetration
depths, respectively. From the relation between B2D and g, one can see
that g should increase with increasing Pr content. On the basis of the
Josephson coupled block model and considering the loss of local
superconductivity induced by ion substitution, Tang _et al._[39] have
found the relationship between the anisotropy parameter and the ion
concentration substituted in Y1-_x_Pr_xBa2Cu3O7-_d_ system is

γ = γ₀/(1 − Ax),

where g0 is a constant and A is a proportional coefficient. The Ca site
in Bi2212 has an identical crystallographic environment to that of Y in
Y123, both occupying the center of the Cu-O octahedra. So Eq. (11)
should be also applicable for the Pr-doped Bi2212 system. Thus, the x
dependence of the second peak field can be described as

$$B_{sp} = \frac{\Phi_{0}}{(s\gamma_{0})^{2}}(1 - Ax)^{2}.$$

Equation (12) fits the experimental data well, see the solid line in
Fig. 9. Also shown in Fig. 9 are the changes of g with x and fitting
data to Eq. (11) with parameters g0 = 94.0 and A = 2.39. These results
demonstrate that the Pr doping surely weakens the CuO2 interlayer
coupling and increases the anisotropy of the Bi2212 system.

## IV Conclusions

Effect of Pr doping on the superconductivity and CuO2 interlayer
coupling of the Bi2212 system was studied carefully for
Bi2Sr2Ca1-_x_Pr_xCu2O9 (_x_ = 0 - 0.78) single crystals. The _T_c
variations with Pr content, for both as-grown and air-annealed crystals,
can be well described by a universal parabolic relation _T_c/_T_max =
1 - 82.6(_n_ - 0.16)2. The carrier concentration n was proved to
decrease linearly with x, which confirms that hole filling is the main
reason for the suppression of _T_c. The superconducting volume faction
also decreases with Pr content and is proportional to 1 - _b_x_2, which
was well described as the loss of local superconductivity of CuO2
bilayers due to the Pr substitution. The second peak in magnetization
curves, _B_sp, was found to decrease with Pr content and described as
_B_sp = Ph0/(_s_)2 and anisotropy factor g = g0/(1 - _Ax_) in terms of
the dimensional crossover from 3D flux lines to 2D pancake vortices.
This result demonstrates the destruction of CuO2 interlayer coupling by
the Pr substitution, which relates to the loss of local
superconductivity in each CuO2 bilayer.

Footnote 2: The _B_sp is the same as that of the _B_sp.

###### Acknowledgements.

This work was supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of
China and the National Center for Research & Development on
Superconductivity.

Figure 8: Magnetization curves _M_(_H_) for Bi2Sr2Ca1−_x_Pr_Cu2O9
annealed crystals at 20 K for x = 0, 0.11, 0.17, and 17.5 K for x =
0.28. The second peak _B_sp for each crystal was indicated by arrows.
The small discontinuity in the _M_(_H_) curve for the x = 0.11 crystal
is an artificial result induced by the increase in the rate of field
sweeping.

Figure 9: Variations of the second peak _B_sp and the anisotropy factor
g with the Pr content for Bi2Sr2Ca1−_x_Pr_xCu2O9 annealed crystals. The
solid line and dash line are fits to formula _B_sp = Ph0(1 -
_Ax_)2/(_s_g_0)2 and _γ_ = _γ_0/(1 - _Ax_), respectively.

* [1] J. M. Tarascon, P. Barboux, G. W. Hull, R. Ramesh, L. H. Greene,
M. Grioud, M. S. Hedge, and W. R. McKinnon, Phys. Rev. B **39**, 4316
(1989). * [2] T. Tamegai, K. Koga, K. Suzuki, M. Ichihara, F. Sakai, and
Y. Iye, Jpn. J. Appl. Phys., Part 2 **28**, L112 (1989). * [3] C. N.
Rao, R. Nagarajan, R. Vijayraghavan, N. Y. Vasanthacharya, G. Kulkarni,
G. Ranga Rao, A. M. Umarji, P. Somasundaram, G. N. Subbanna, A. R. Raju,
A. K. Sood, and N. Chandrabhas, Supercond. Sci. Technol. **3**, 242
(1990). * [4] B. Jayaram, P. C. Lanchester, and M. T. Weller, Phys. Rev.
B **43**, 5444 (1991). * [5] Y. Gao, P. Pernambuco-Wise, J. E. Crow, J.
O’Reilly, N. Spencer, H. Chen, and R. E. Salomon, Phys. Rev. B **45**,
7436 (1992). * [6] C. Quitmann, D. Andrich, C. Jarchow, M. Fleuster, B.
Beschoten, G. Guntherodt, V. V. Moshchalkov, G. Mante, and R. Manzke,
Phys. Rev. B **46**, 11 813 (1992). * [7] C. Kendziora, L. Forro, D.
Mandrus, J. Harteg, P. Stephens, L. Mihaly, R. Reeder, D. Moecher, M.
Rivers, and S. Sutton, Phys. Rev. B **45**, 13 025 (1992). * [8] V. P.
S. Awana, S. K. Agarwal, R. Ray, S. Gupta, and A. V. Narlikar, Physica C
**191**, 43 (1992). * [9] V. P. S. Awana, S. K. Agarwal, A. V. Narlikar,
and M. P. Das, Phys. Rev. B **48**, 1211 (1993). * [10] Xiaolong Chen,
Jingkui Liang, Jinrong Min, Jianqi Li, and Guan-guhai Rao, Phys. Rev. B
**50**, 3431 (1994). * [11] P. Sumana Prabhu, M. S. Ramachandra Rao, U.
V. Varadaraju, and G. V. Subba Rao, Phys. Rev. B **50**, 6929 (1994). *
[12] H. Jin, N. L. Wang, Y. Chong, M. Deng, L. Z. Cao, and Z. J. Chen,
J. Cryst. Growth **149**, 269 (1995). * [13] V. P. S. Awana, Latika
Menon, and S. K. Malik, Phys. Rev. B **51**, 9379 (1995); **53**, 2245
(1996). * [14] B. Beschoten, S. Sadewasser, G. Guntherodt, and C.
Quitmann, Phys. Rev. Lett. **77**, 1837 (1996). * [15] Weiyan Guan,
Yunhui Xu, S. R. Sheen, Y. C. Chen, J. Y. T. Wei, H. F. Lai, M. K. Wu,
and J. C. Ho, Phys. Rev. B **49**, 15 993 (1994), and references
therein. * [16] S. L. Cooper and K. E. Gray, in _Physical Properties of
High Temperature Superconductivity IV_, edited by D. M. Ginsberg (World
Scientific, Singapore, 1996), p. 61. * [17] R. Busch, G. Ries, H.
Werthner, G. Kreiselmeyer, and G. Saemann-Ischenko, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**69**, 522 (1992). * [18] J. C. Martinez, S. H. Brongersma, A.
Koshelev, B. Ivlev, P. H. Kes, R. P. Griessen, D. G. De Groot, Z.
Tarnavski, and A. A. Menovsky, Phys. Rev. Lett. **69**, 2276 (1992). *
[19] V. N. Kopylov, A. E. Koshelev, I. F. Schegolev, and T. G.
Togonidze, Physica C **170**, 291 (1990). * [20] N. Chikumoto, M.
Konczykowski, N. Motohira, and A. P. Malozemoff, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**69**, 1260 (1992). * [21] Y. Yeshurun, N. Bontemps, L. Burlachkov, and
A. Kapitulnik, Phys. Rev. B **49**, 1548 (1993). * [22] K. Kadowaki and
T. Mochiku, Physica C **195**, 127 (1992). * [23] T. Tamegai, Y. Iye, I.
Oguro, and K. Kishio, Physica C **213**, 33 (1993). * [24] G. Yang, P.
Shang, S. D. Sutton, J. P. Jones, J. S. Abell, and C. E. Gough, Phys.
Rev. B **48**, 4054 (1993). * [25] V. M. Vinokur, P. H. Kes, and A. E.
Koshelev, Physica C **168**, 29 (1990). * [26] Y. Kotaka, T. Kimura, H.
Ikuta, J. Shimoyama, K. Kitazawa, K. Yamafuji, K. Kishio, and D. Pooke,
Physica C **235-240**, 1529 (1994). * [27] D. H. Ha, K. W. Lee, K. Oka,
Y. Yamaguchi, F. Iga, and Y. Nishihara, Physica C **260**, 242 (1996). *
[28] Xuefeng Sun, Xia Zhao, Wenbin Wu, Xiaojuan Fan, and Xiao-Guang Li,
Physica C **305**, 227 (1998). * [29] Xuefeng Sun, Xia Zhao, Wenbin Wu,
Xiaojuan Fan, Xiao-Guang Li, and H. C. Ku, Physica C **307**, 67
(1998). * [30] H. W. Zandbergen, W. A. Groen, F. C. Mijlhoff, G. van
Tendeloo, and S. Amelinckx, Physica C **156**, 325 (1989). * [31] G.
Triscone, J. Y. Genoud, T. Graf, A. Junod, and J. Muller, Physica C
**176**, 247 (1991). * [32] Xuefeng Sun, Wenbin Wu, Lei Zheng, Xiaoru
Zhao, Lei Shi, Guien Zhou, Xiao-Guang Li, and Yuheng Zhang, J. Phys.:
Condens. Matter **9**, 6391 (1997). * [33] A. I. Liechtenstein and I. I.
Mazin, Phys. Rev. Lett. **74**, 1000 (1995). * [34] Wenbin Wu, Liangbin
Wang, Xiao-Guang Li, Guien Zhou, Yitai Qian, Qiaonan Qin, and Yuheng
Zhang, J. Appl. Phys. **74**, 7388 (1993). * [35] Wenbin Wu, Liangbin
Wang, Qiaonan Qin, Yitai Qian, Lei Shi, Xiao-Guang Li, Guien Zhou, and
Yuheng Zhang, Phys. Rev. B **49**, 1315 (1994). * [36] A. A. Abrikosov
and L. P. Gor’kov, Zh. Eksp. Teor. Fiz. **39**, 1781 (1961) [Sov. Phys.
JETP **12**, 1243 (1961)]. * [37] M. R. Presland, J. L. Tollon, R. G.
Buckley, R. S. Liu, and N. E. Flower, Physica C **176**, 95 (1991). *
[38] S. D. Obertelli, J. R. Cooper, and J. L. Tallon, Phys. Rev. B
**46**, 14 928 (1992). * [39] Hongxing Tang, Jinsheng Zhu, Xiao-Guang
Li, and Yuheng Zhang, J. Appl. Phys. **79**, 1991 (1996).
