Upper-critical fields of YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) epitaxial thin films with
variable oxygen deficiency d

E. C. Jones

dones@phys.uni-bonn.de Department of Physics, University of Tennessee,
Knoxville, Tennessee 37996-1200

D. K. Christen

Solid State Division, Oak Ridge National Laboratory, Oak Ridge,
Tennessee 37831-6061

J. R. Thompson

Department of Physics, University of Tennessee, Knoxville, Tennessee
37996-1200

and Solid State Division, Oak Ridge National Laboratory, Oak Ridge,
Tennessee 37831-6061

J. G. Ossandon

Department of Physics, University of Tennessee, Knoxville, Tennessee
37996-1200

R. Feenstra

Solid State Division, Oak Ridge National Laboratory, Oak Ridge,
Tennessee 37831-6061

Julia M. Phillips

AT&T Bell Laboratories, 600 Mountain Avenue, Murray Hill, New Jersey
07974

25 January 1993; revised manuscript received 13 September 1993

###### Abstract

Fluctuation analysis in the limit of high magnetic fields was performed
on three epitaxial thin films of YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) for various oxygen
deficiencies d < 0.3. On the 90-K plateau, the three-dimensional (3D)
limit yielded an H_(c2)(T) slope of −1.7 T/K for H∥_c_, consistent with
previous observations of transport and magnetic properties. Moreover,
the 3D scaling showed better convergence than the 2D scaling, which gave
relatively low values of H_(c2). In contrast, the transitions were not
adequately described by either scaling for T_(c) off the 90-K plateau;
it is speculated that this is due to an extrinsic broadening of the
transitions, possibly due to the lack of a complete percolation path of
the ortho-I phase (d = 0).

## I Introduction

Early work on oxygen deficient YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) led to the discovery of
the now well-known 90 and 60 K T_(c) vs d plateaus.[1] Although the
origin of these features has proved difficult to elucidate, several
elaborate electronic models[2, 3, 4] and phase-separation scenarios[5,
6, 7] have been proposed. In our previous work on YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ)
epitaxial thin films, the critical current density J_(c) was observed to
extrapolate toward zero as the oxygen deficiency d measured the edge of
the 90-K T_(c) plateau, while the flux-creep activation energy remained
constant.[7] This finding suggests that the 90-K T_(c) plateau occurs as
a result of a complete percolation path of the fully oxygenated ortho-I
YBa₂Cu₃O₇ phase.[8, 9] In contrast, Ossandon _et al._ showed that an
increasing coherence volume d ξ³ with d could lead to a relatively
constant flux-creep activation energy U₀ = (H_(c)²/8π)ξ_(ab)²ξ_(c) on
the 90-K plateau by allowing the increasing coherence volume to
counteract the decreasing condensation energy H_(c)²/8π.[10] In this
model, the decreasing critical current density J_(c)(δ) simply reflects
a decreasing J_(c0) ∝ (H_(c)²/8π)ξ_(ab) which is the critical current
density in the absence of flux creep.[10] If an electronic mechanism is
responsible for the 90-K T_(c) plateau, the coherence length ξ must
increase with oxygen deficiency in order to explain the constant pinning
activation energy which is observed on this plateau. Therefore, to
better understand the true origin of these T_(c)(δ) plateaus and to
provide clues as to the possible pairing mechanism, we examined
systematic changes in the fluctuation conductivity σ_(f)(T, H) and the
transition temperature T_(c) as a function of oxygen deficiency d. The
high-field fluctuations[11, 12, 13] are generally accepted as a means of
determining the upper-critical field H_(c2). If the fluctuations yield
an H_(c2) plateau coinciding with the 90-K plateau, this finding would
support the phase separation-percolation scenario for the T_(c) vs d
plateaus. On the other hand, if H_(c2) decreases with d, electronic
mechanisms would remain a viable explanation for the T_(c) vs d
plateaus. Therefore, these important measurements were performed on
three high-quality epitaxial thin films that were rendered oxygen
deficient by thermal processing under carefully controlled
conditions.[14]

Other issues also motivated the present fluctuation study. First, most
high-field fluctuation theories neglect the Maki-Thompson processes[15]
which are assumed to be negligible at very high fields. Comparison of
the upper-critical fields H_(c2) determined by the present high-field
fluctuation analysis to those determined by applying other techniques,
such as the Hao _et al._ analysis[16] to the reversible diamagnetism
curves, may help to decide whether or not these processes are, indeed,
negligible in the high-field regime. Second, the fluctuation analysis
may provide the only means of estimating H_(c2) in some materi als such
as extremely thin films, e.g., superlattices. Again, comparing these
fluctuation-derived H_(c2) values to those determined by other
techniques may provide clues as to whether or not the fluctuation
analysis provides reliable upper-critical fields.

Experimentally, we found that while on the 90-K T_(c) plateau, the
fluctuation analysis yielded an H_(c2)(δ) plateau with a slope of
$dH_{c2}/dT\left|\vphantom{\frac{1}{2}}\right._{T_{c}}\approx-1.7$ T/K
for $H\left|\vphantom{\frac{1}{2}}\right.\kern-1pt|c$. On the contrary,
the transitions obtained off the 90-K plateau (δ > 0.2) were not
accurately described by the fluctuation theory; this feature will be
attributed to an extrinsic broadening of the transitions. We argue that
this may result from the loss of a percolation path of fully oxygenated
ortho-I phase. Finally, to support this speculation, independent data
will be presented to support the coexistence of multiple phases in
oxygen deficient YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ).

Studies of fluctuation effects in superconductors have recently been
revived due to the discovery of the high-T_(c) materials. In this work,
we utilize the recent in-field fluctuation theories [11, 12] (the
derivations of Ullah and Dorsey are particularly useful) to deduce the
H_(c2) slopes for H||c. The fluctuation theories were developed in the
framework of the Lawrence-Doniach model, [17] which accounts for the
layered structure of the high-T_(c) materials. The theory of Ullah and
Dorsey [11] gives the following set of equations for the fluctuation
conductivities with either three-dimensional (3D) or 2D scaling:

$$\left[\frac{H}{T}\right]^{1/2}\sigma_{yy}^{\rm 2D} = g\left[\,A\frac{T-T_{c}(H)}{(TH)^{1/2}}\right]\;,$$
(1)
$$\left[\frac{H^{1/3}}{T^{2/3}}\right]\sigma_{yy}^{\rm 3D} = g\left[\,A\frac{T-T_{c}(H)}{(TH)^{2/3}}\right]\;,$$
(2)
$$(TH)^{1/2}\sigma_{xx}^{\rm 2D} = f\left[\,A\frac{T-T_{c}(H)}{(TH)^{1/2}}\right]^{3}\;,$$
(3)
$$\sigma_{xx}^{\rm 3D} = f\left[\,A\frac{T-T_{c}(H)}{(TH)^{2/3}}\,\right]^{3}\;.$$
(4)

In these equations, σ_(ii) is the fluctuation conductivity along the ith
crystal axis (i.e., σ_(yy) denotes
$\left|\vphantom{\frac{1}{2}}\right.\kern-1ptab$ plane while σ_(xx)
denotes $\left.\vphantom{\frac{1}{2}}\right.\kern-1ptab$ plane),
H = H_(z) is the applied magnetic field along the c axis, and T_(c)(H)
is the mean-field transition temperature, which is field dependent. The
unknown scaling functions g and f should be the same for all fields, and
the constant A is independent of the temperature and field (the exact
expression for A is unimportant here, but is described in detail by Han
_et al._[18]). The only adjustable parameter is T_(c)(H). Its values are
selected by simply plotting the argument of each side of the equation of
interest, while selecting T_(c)(H) such that the transitions for each
magnetic field fall on a universal curve. Interestingly, the best
choices of T_(c)(H) usually correspond to a linear H_(c2) vs T
dependence near T_(c). Equations (1) and (2) apply to the c-oriented
epitaxial films used in this study, whereas Eqs. (3) and (4) could be
applied to any basal-plane-oriented film, for example.

## II Experimental Aspects

The three highly crystalline [verified by 2

$$\delta\approx 0.45\left|\frac{\Delta\sigma}{\sigma_{0}}\right|\;.$$
(5)

Values of δ can be obtained from Eq. (5), but must be regarded as
provisional, since extrinsic factors such as substrate-induced strains
may alter both the magnitude of the c-lattice parameter, as well as its
response to δ. It turns out that the exact value of the oxygen
deficiency δ is not critical since an apparent plateau in H_(c2) vs δ
was observed. Approximate values of δ are only necessary to allow
comparisons of the H_(c2)(δ) values in this work to those obtained in
bulk YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) utilizing magnetization measurement. [22, 23]

## III Experimental Results

To minimize the impact of extrinsic transition broadening (e.g.,
broadening due to defects and/or inhomogeneity) on our fluctuation
analysis, only the highest crystal quality, lowest defect-pinning films
[19] were included in this fluctuation study. Figure 1 shows that the
zero-field transition widths are on the order of ∼0.5-0.8 K. In
addition, the transition widths were not observed to broaden with oxygen
deficiency δ while on the 90-K plateau. Although there is no guarantee
that inhomo geneity does not adversely effect the in-field fluctuation
analysis, if such extrinsic effects are indeed significant, we would
probably expect to obtain an H_(c2) value that seriously disagrees with
those reported using completely different techniques to obtain H_(c2).

In the following discussion, we will see that application of the
fluctuation theory to the experimental data on YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) suggests
the existence of an H_(c2)(δ) plateau over the oxygen range
6.8 ≤ 7 − 8 ≤ 7.0 with a slope of dH_(c2)/dT| _(T_(c)) ≈ −1.7 T/K. This
oxygen range corresponds to the complete range of the 90-K plateau in
all three films. In Figs. 2(a)-2(d), the determination of the H_(c2)(T)
slope near T_(c) is depicted by a two-step process that utilizes Eq.
(2). In order to obtain dH_(c2)/dT, we first determine the fluctuation
conductivity $\sigma_{f}(=\sigma_{ii}^{\rm 3D,2D})$ by extrapolating the
normal-state resistivity into the superconducting regime and then
applying the relation

$$\sigma_{f}=\sigma_{\rm total}-\frac{1}{\rho_{0}+mT}\ .$$
(6)

Here σ_(f) is the fluctuation conductivity, $\sigma_{\rm total}$ is the
observed conductivity, ρ₀ and m are the constants describing the linear
extrapolation of the normal-state resistivity

Figure 2: Step-by-step determination of −dH_(c2)/dT by utilization of
the high-field fluctuation theory. (a) First, the fluctuation
conductivity σ_(f) (inset) is determined for various normal-state
resistive extrapolations (dashed curves **a**, b, and c) as a function
of temperature and applied field. (b–d) These are plotted according to
Eq. (2) for each normal-state extrapolation on the 90-K plateau. The
only adjustable parameters are the mean-field transition temperatures
T_(c)(H), which give T_(c) as a function of H_(c2), and these are chosen
in such a way as to generate the best universal curves shown. Since each
extrapolation generated similar H_(c2) slopes, e.g., (−1.7 ± 0.3) T/K,
the derived H_(c2) values appear to be more sensitive to the divergence
of the in-field resistive transitions rather than on the chosen
normal-state extrapolations. Therefore, all proceeding derivations of
H_(c2) will simply assume a linear resistive extrapolation. (e) Note
that the transitions obtained off the 90-K T_(c) plateau are not
adequately described by the fluctuation theory. (f) Moreover, the
fluctuation conductivities plotted according to Eq. (1) indicates that
the 2D scaling does not adequately describe the resistive fluctuations.
The resistivity factor, $\rho_{\rm 100K}$, in the y values allows
relative comparisons of the quality of fit to be made in each case.

Figure 1: Resistive transitions shown on a log-log plot. This graph
indicates that the high-quality coevaporated films chosen for this
fluctuation analysis have zero-field transition widths on the order of
∼0.5–0.8 K. Moreover, the parallel shifts of the transitions occurring
on the 90-K plateau (δ ≤ 0.2) indicate that no additional broadening
occurs with increasing oxygen deficiency δ. In contrast, a slight
broadening in the transitions does occur off the 90-K plateau (δ ≈ 0.3).

into the superconducting state. Although linear extrapolations appear to
be reasonable, it is not clear that these assumed extrapolations are the
best choices. As a test, several extrapolations were tried [dashed
curves labeled a, b, and c in Fig. 2(a)] and were found to generate
remarkably similar H_(c2) slopes, i.e., −2.0, −1.7, and −1.4 T/K,
respectively, near T_(c). Figures 2(b)-2(d) indicate that the
fluctuation conductivities determined from each extrapolation are well
described by the fluctuation theory. Since these resistive
extrapolations were sufficiently different, this implied that the
fluctuation analysis was not very sensitive to the exact choice of the
extrapolation. Therefore, the derived H_(c2) values in this work simply
assumed the linear extrapolation of the normal-state resistivity into
the mixed state. Error bars on the H_(c2) slopes, although difficult to
know with certainty, are believed to be no more than ±0.1 T/K.

In order to determine the upper-critical field, the derived fluctuation
conductivities σ_(f) were plotted in reduced form as shown in Figs.
2(b)-2(d), for example. The resulting H_(c2) curves were then obtained
by choosing T_(c)(H) for each applied field in order to obtain a
universal curve. For oxygen contents in the regime of the 90-K plateau,
the 3D scaling [Eq. (2)] always gave the best convergence, assuming a
linear H_(c2) vs T with a slope of −1.7 T/K near T_(c). Interestingly,
the temperature dependence of H_(c2) in all three films extrapolated to
zero at the midpoint of the self-field resistive transitions. Off the
90-K plateau, however, neither the 3D nor the 2D scaling accurately
described the fluctuation regime of the in-field resistive transitions.
For instance, the best fit possible for an oxygen content of 7 − δ ≈ 6.7
was obtained by application of the 3D scaling and choosing an "enhanced"
H_(c2) slope of about −2 T/K. These resulting curves [Fig. 2(e)] clearly
show differences in curvature at each applied field. Furthermore, the
convergence of these curves progressively worsened as the oxygen content
was sequentially reduced. As already stated, the 2D

Figure 2: (_Continued_).

scaling did not accurately describe the fluctuations at any oxygen
content as depicted at full oxygenation in Fig. 2(f). This observation
was previously reported in the fluctuation diamagnetism of
YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) crystals.[24] In addition, the 2D scaling also
suggested lower H_(c2) slopes, e.g., −1.2 T/K near T_(c).

The H_(c2) slopes determined by three different techniques are
summarized in Fig. 3. This figure compares the present electrical
transport fluctuation results to the equilibrium mixed-state
magnetization analysis of Ossamdon _et al._[22] In the magnetization
studies, application of the simple Ginzburg-Landau extrapolation (Welp
_et al._[25]) produced an initial H_(c2)(δ) plateau of about −2.1 T/K.
Upon application of the more rigorous theory of Hao _et al._[16], the
same data yielded a similar plateau, but with a smaller H_(c2) slope of
−1.8 T/K. Interestingly, the Hao _et al._ analysis for H_(c2) agrees
reasonably well with the fluctuation analysis over the range of the
observed 90-K plateau. More specifically, the magnetization studies
yielded a 90-K plateau that spanned a smaller range of δ, e.g., ∼
6.89−7.00. In sum, these observations suggest that an H_(c2)(δ) plateau
is associated with the 90-K T_(c) plateau making an electronic mechanism
an unlikely explanation for the coexisting 90 K T_(c) and pinning
activation-energy plateaus.

For oxygen compositions occurring off the 90-K plateau (typically δ ≥
0.2), the resistive transitions taken in self-field for most
YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) samples are broadened.[7] Figure 4(a) shows typical
Hall transitions for compositions taken off the 90-K plateau which
suggests a T_(c) distribution. Although uncommonly observed in the
resistive transitions of oxygen deficient YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ), this
apparent T_(c) distribution sometimes appears in the resistive
transitions obtained off the 90-K plateau [Fig. 4(b)].[26] These data
suggest that a discrete distribution of finely dispersed T_(c)’s may
exist in all oxygen deficient YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) samples, in addition to
the more prominent coexisting ortho-I, ortho-II, and tetragonal
phases.[8, 9] Moreover, previously published data of the field
dependence of J_(c) indicated a granularlike critical current density at
reduced oxygen contents, i.e., in the range δ ≥ 0.3.[7] Finally, the
existence of coexisting phases in these high-quality epitaxial thin
films prompted the following discussion concerning the effects of phase
separation on the in-field fluctuation analysis.

## IV Phase-Separation Effects

Considerable experimental evidence currently exists that supports a
phase-separation phenomenon, i.e., chain-site oxygen clustering in
oxygen deficient YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ).[8, 9, 27, 28] Furthermore, such
occurrences of phase separation may be directly responsible for both the
90- and 60-K plateaus observed in T_(c) vs δ, via geometrical effects
and the percolation of current.[8] Therefore, it was deemed necessary to
determine the effects of phase separation on the "apparent" H_(c2)
values, as determined from the above fluctuation theory. As a simple
model, we assumed that oxygen deficient YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) simply
separated into regions of 90 and 85 K δ phases. Two sets of in-field
resistive transitions were experimentally obtained–one at full
oxygenation (T_(c) = 90 K) and the other just off the 90-K plateau
(T_(c) = 85 K). The former set had an apparent
dH_(c2)/dT$\left|\vphantom{\frac{1}{2}}\right._{T_{c}}\approx-1.7$ T/K
while the latter had an apparent
dH_(c2)/dT$\left|\vphantom{\frac{1}{2}}\right._{T_{c}}\approx-2.0$ T/K.
Both parallel and series combinations of these two sets of resistive
transitions were calculated as a function of temperature using R=
R_(90 K) + R_(85 K) for the series combinations and 1/R=
1/R_(90 K) + 1/R_(85 K) for the parallel combinations. The resulting
resistive transitions were then analyzed in the framework of the
fluctuation theory utilizing the 3D scaling. The resulting apparent
values of −dH_(c2)/dT are shown as a function of the volume percentage
of the 90-K phase in Fig. 5. These results indicate that the fluctuation
analysis is sensitive only to the presence of the more conductive 90-K
phase in a parallel conduction system. This important result indicates
that geometrical errors should not lead to errors in the H_(c2) values
as determined from the fluctuation analysis. In contrast, series
combinations of these phases generate enormous false increases in
−dH_(c2)/dT. For instance, a mere 0.3

Figure 3: Summary of the H_(c2)(T) slopes as a function of oxygen
deficiency δ in YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) determined by the in-field fluctuation
analysis of epitaxial thin films (filled circles). These are compared to
the magnetization results of bulk, aligned YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) adapted from
Ossamdon _et al._[36] (open symbols). The dashed curve indicates the
failure of the fluctuation analysis to produce an adequate universal
curve off the 90-K plateau.

off the 90-K plateau seem to reflect the presence of a series, discrete
T_(c) distribution.

## V Implications for BCS theory

Unfortunately, universal results for H_(c2)(H∥c) at all oxygen
deficiencies d in YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) cannot be deduced from the various
experimental determinations of H_(c2) summarized in Fig. 3. Furthermore,
the nonlinear T_(c) vs d behavior observed in oxygen deficient
YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) materials apparently occurs as a result of
inhomogeneous oxygen doping. Nonetheless, the importance of knowing
H_(c2) as a function of d will be stressed in the framework of simple
BCS relationships, since quenching procedures might be utilized to
produce more homogeneous thin films in future experiments. In the clean
limit, if H_(c2) changes with d on the 90-K plateau due to electronic
effects, then changes must occur in the Fermi velocity. Clean-limit BCS
theory provides that

$$H_{c2}(0) = \frac{\Phi_{0}\pi\Delta^{2}(0)}{2\hbar^{2}\nu_{F}^{2}}\ .$$

Moreover, recent measurements of the energy gap [29] give the
strong-coupling result that

$$\Delta(0) = \frac{(6-8)}{2}kT_{c}\ .$$

In the above equations, Φ₀ is the flux quantum 2.07 × 10⁻⁷ G/cm², Δ(0)
is the superconducting energy gap at the Fermi surface at absolute zero,
ν_(F) is the Fermi velocity of the superconducting charge carriers, and
T_(c) is the superconducting transition temperature. Combining Eqs. (7)
and (8) leads to the simple proportionality,

$$H_{c2}(0) \propto \frac{T_{c}^{2}}{\nu_{F}^{2}}\ .$$

Superconductivity is generally believed to be associated with the CuO₂
planes, and from band-structure calculations, Yu _et al._[30] have shown
that the plane-related pieces of the Fermi surface are virtually
identical between the YBa₂Cu₃O₇ and YBa₂Cu₃O_(6.5) phases. This suggests
that the Fermi velocity is relatively insensitive to changes in the
oxygen deficiency d. Thus, one might expect para-teaulike behavior in
the upper-critical field H_(c2) to be associated with the 90-K T_(c) vs
d plateau. Unfortunately, Allen _et al._ give
(v_(x, y)²)^(1/2) = 2.3 × 10⁷ cm/s based on band-structure calculations,
[31] which implies H_(c2) ≈ 35 kOe, over one order of magnitude below
the accepted value of H_(c2).[32] This discrepancy may be resolved by
either an uncertainty in the prefactor of Eq. (8) or by a non-BCS-type
pairing mechanism that determines T_(c). Recent evidence suggests that
the maximum transition temperature of 92 K in YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) may be
due to a phase instability,[33] which could explain this H_(c2)
discrepancy in addition to the enhanced values for the prefactors in Eq.
(8) as observed by others.[34] Thus, we have shown that one might expect
an H_(c2) plateau as a function of oxygen deficiency d, assuming BCS
theory is applicable to the YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) system and that the 90-K
plateau results from an electronic mechanism.

Figure 4: Evidence for the coexistence of multiple phases at reduced
oxygen contents in YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ). (a) Systematic “peaks” were
observed in the Hall transitions of all samples whenever d  ≥ 0.3. These
peaks suggest a T_(c) distribution that normally does not appear in the
resistive transitions (typical transitions shown in the inset). (b)
However, occasional resistive transitions at reduced oxygen contents are
encountered which hint of these same coexisting phases. Note that the
upper curve was obtained after annealing this sample at 550 °C for 1 h
in argon. The lack of any superconducting onsets argues against these
transitions being due to an oxygen diffusion barrier. Obviously, these
atypical samples cannot be used in the fluctuation analysis.

## VI Summary

The fluctuation theory, [11, 12] in the high-field limit, was applied to
the in-field resistive transitions obtained from three high-quality
epitaxial thin films of YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) at various oxygen deficiencies
δ. In each sample, an H_(c2)(δ) plateau with a corresponding
high-temperature slope of −1.7 T/K was deduced for oxygen compositions
occurring on the 90-K plateau, i.e., in the range 6.8 ≤ 7 − δ ≤ 7.0. In
contrast, the in-field resistive transitions taken off the 90-K plateau,
i.e., δ ≥ 0.2, were not adequately described by the fluctuation theory,
which may indicate the presence of coexisting series phases. Indeed,
evidence for a discrete T_(c) distribution is observed in the Hall
transitions and the field dependence of J_(c)/J_(c)(H = 0) in oxygen
deficient YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ). From this work, we speculate that the
apparent H_(c2) plateaus simply reflect the existence of a percolation
path of the more conductive, fully oxygenated ortho-I YBa₂Cu₃O₇ phase in
slightly oxygen deficient samples, since it was established that
geometrical cross sectional errors do not change the apparent H_(c2)
values as determined by this fluctuation analysis. This phase-separation
scenario is also consistent with the observation of a constant
flux-creep activation energy observed across the 90-K plateau in our
previous work. [7] In addition, we established that the fluctuation
analysis should lead to false increases of the apparent H_(c2) values
whenever slightly different phases occur in series. This finding
suggests that the high-field fluctuation analysis is probably an
unreliable means of determining the upper-critical field except for the
very best homogeneous superconductors. Unfortunately, the necessary
degree of homogeneity required for these analyses probably occurs very
infrequently in the high-T_(c) superconductors due to their short
coherence lengths ξ. However, since the derived upper-critical field at
full oxygenation (oxygen clustering effects should be minimal near
δ ≈ 0) agrees with the upper-critical field determined by other
techniques, [10] the high-field fluctuation theory appears to be a
viable means of determining reasonable H_(c2) values. In addition, these
agreements (δ ≈ 0) also suggest that the Maki-Thompson processes [15]
are negligible in the high-field regime. Finally, Daumling, Levine, and
Shaw [35] have shown that the T_(c) vs δ plateaus are absent in
polycrystalline samples quenched from high temperatures, a procedure
that may suggest better homogeneity. Therefore, it would be interesting
and useful to obtain H_(c2)(δ) values by applying this fluctuation
analysis to quenched epitaxial thin films of YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ).

###### Acknowledgements.

The authors acknowledge useful discussions with Warren E. Pickett,
Jaejun Yu, A. T. Dorsey, and Philip B. Allen. The authors are grateful
to B. C. Chakoumakos and S. Patapis for carefully reading this
manuscript. Research sponsored by the Division of Materials Sciences, U.
S. Department of Energy under Contract No. DE-AC05-84OR21400, with
Martin-Marietta Energy Systems, Inc.

## References

* [*] Present address: MS-6056 Bldg. 2000, Oak Ridge National
Laboratory, P.O. Box 2008, Oak Ridge, TN 37831-6056. * [+] Present
address: Universidad de Talca, Talca, Chile. * [+] Present address:
Sandia National Laboratories, Division 1154, P.O. Box 5800, Albuquerque,
NM 87185. * [3] R. J. Cava, B. Batlogg, C. H. Chen, E. A. Rietman, S. M.
Zahurak, and D. Werder, Phys. Rev. B **36**, 5719 (1987). * [4] Y. Z.
Kresin, S. A. Wolf, and G. Deutscher, Physica C **191**, 9 (1992). * [5]
R. McCormack, D. de Fontaine, and G. Ceder, Phys. Rev. B **45**, 12 976
(1992). * [6] B. W. Veal and A. P. Paulikas, Physica C **184**, 321
(1991). * [7] R. Beyers, B. T. Ahn, G. Gorman, V. Y. Lee, S. S. P.
Parkin, M. L. Ramirez, K. P. Roche, J. E. Vazquez, T. M. Gur, and R. A.
Huggins, Nature (London) **340**, 619 (1989). * [8] T. Zeiske, R.
Sonntag, D. Hohlwein, N. H. Andersen, and T. Wolf, Nature (London)
**353**, 542 (1991). * [9] E. C. Jones, D. K. Christen, J. R. Thompson,
R. Feenstra, S. Zhu, D. H. Lowndes, J. M. Phillips, M. P. Siegal, and J.
D. Budai, Phys. Rev. B **47**, 8986 (1993). * [10] J. Mesot, P.
Allenspach, U. Staub, A. Furrer, and H. Mutka, Phys. Rev. Lett. **70**,
865 (1993).

Figure 5: Predicted effect of phase separation on the apparent H_(c2)
slopes as derived from the fluctuation analysis. The model used to
generate these results assumed that phase separation occurs between
discrete regions of T_(c) = 90 and 85 K. This simulation reveals that
parallel conduction channels of similar phases should have no effect on
the apparent H_(c2) values, whereas coexisting series phases should lead
to significant increases in the apparent H_(c2) values above a certain
threshold amount of the minority phase (arrow). The inset shows the
resulting self-field resistive transitions for the following series
phase cases: (top) 98.5

* [9] M. Iliev, C. Thomsen, V. Hadjiev, and M. Cardona, Phys. Rev. B
**47**, 12 341 (1993). * [10] J. G. Ossandon, J. R. Thompson, D. K.
Christen, B. C. Sales, Y. Sun, and K. W. Lay, Phys. Rev. B **46**, 3050
(1992). * [11] S. Ullah and A. T. Dorsey, Phys. Rev. B **44**, 262
(1991). * [12] R. Ikeda, T. Ohmi, and T. Tsuneto, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn.
**58**, 1377 (1989). * [13] V. G. Kogan, M. Ledvij, A. Yu. Simonov, J.
H. Cho, and D. C. Johnston, Phys. Rev. Lett. **70**, 1870 (1993). * [14]
R. Feenstra, T. B. Lindemer, J. D. Budai, and M. D. Galloway, J. Appl.
Phys. **69**, 6569 (1991). * [15] K. Maki and R. S. Thompson, Phys. Rev.
B **39**, 2767 (1989). * [16] Z. Hao, J. Clem, M. McElfresh, L. Civale,
A. Malozemoff, and F. Holtzberg, Phys. Rev. B **43**, 2844 (1991). *
[17] W. E. Lawrence and S. Doniach, in _Proceedings of the 12th
International Conference on Low Temperature Physics, Kyoto, 1970_,
edited by E. Kanda (Keigaku, Tokyo, 1971), p. 361. * [18] S. H. Han, C.
C. Almasan, M. C. de Andrade, Y. Dali-chaouch, and M. B. Maple, Phys.
Rev. B **46**, 14 290 (1992). * [19] M. P. Siegal, J. M. Phillips, A. F.
Hebard, R. B. van Dover, R. C. Farrow, T. H. Tiefel, and J. H. Marshall,
J. Appl. Phys. **70**, 4982 (1991). * [20] R. J. Cava, A. W. Hewat, E.
A. Hewat, B. Batlogg, M. Marezio, K. M. Rabe, J. J. Krajewski, W. F.
Peck, Jr., and L. W. Rupp, Jr., Physica C **165**, 419 (1990). * [21] D.
Jorgensen, B. W. Veal, A. P. Paulikas, L. J. Nowicki, G. W. Crabtree, H.
Claus, and W. K. Kwok, Phys. Rev. B **41**, 1863 (1990). * [22] J. G.
Ossandon, J. R. Thompson, D. K. Christen, B. C. Sales, H. R. Kerchner,
J. O. Thomson, Y. R. Sun, K. W. Lay, and J. E. Tkaczyk, Phys. Rev. B
**45**, 12 534 (1992). * [23] M. Daumling, Physica C **183**, 293
(1991). * [24] U. Welp, S. Fleshler, W. K. Kwok, R. A. Klemm, V. M.
Vinokur, J. Downey, and G. W. Crabtree, in _High Temperature
Superconductivity_, edited by S. K. Malik and S. S. Shah (Nova Science,
New York, 1992). * [25] U. Welp, W. K. Kwok, G. W. Crabtree, K.
Vandervoort, A. Umezawa, and J. Z. Liu, Phys. Rev. Lett. **62**, 1908
(1989). * [26] This film was grown by the BaF₂ process and subsequently
showed a 2 * [27] M. S. Osofsky, J. L. Cohn, E. F. Skelton, M. M.
Miller, R. J. Soulen, Jr., S. A. Wolf, and T. A. Vanderah, Phys. Rev. B
**45**, 4916 (1992). * [28] J. L. Vargas and D. C. Larbalestier, Appl.
Phys. Lett. **60**, 1741 (1992). * [29] H. L. Edwards, J. T. Markert,
and A. L. de Lozanne, Phys. Rev. Lett. **69**, 2967 (1992). * [30] Yu,
S. Massidda, A. J. Freeman, and R. Podloucky, Physica C **214**, 335
(1993). * [31] P. B. Allen, W. E. Pickett, and H. Krakauer, Phys. Rev. B
**37**, 7482 (1988). * [32] Accepted values for H_(c2)(0)(H∥c) generally
occur in the range 1000−1250 kOe as obtained from Refs. [10] and [16]. *
[33] M. Lang, R. Kursch, A. Grauel, C. Geibel, F. Steglich, H.
Rietschel, T. Wolf, Y. Hidaka, K. Kumagai, Y. Maeno, and T. Fujita,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **69**, 482 (1992). * [34] S. A. Wolf and V. Z. Kresin,
IEEE Trans. Magn. **27**, 852 (1991). * [35] M. Daumling, L. E. Levine,
and T. M. Shaw, in _Advances in Cryogenic Engineering (Materials)_,
edited by F. R. Fickett and R. P. Reed (Plenum, New York, 1992), Vol.
38, p. 949. * [36] A more recent Hao _et al._ analysis of the previously
published data of Ref. [22].
