# Coexistence of magnetism and superconductivity in
R1.4Ce0.6RuSr2Cu2O10-_d_ (_R_ = Eu and Gd)

I. Felner, U. Asaf, Y. Levi, and O. Millo

Racah Institute of Physics, The Hebrew University, Jerusalem, 91904,
Israel

16 September 1996

###### Abstract

The superconducting R1.4Ce0.6RuSr2Cu2O10-_d_ materials are also
magnetically ordered at _T_N_3-_T_c_ (_T_c 42, 32 and _T_N_ 180, 122 K
for R = Gd and Eu, respectively). Magnetic susceptibility and Mossbauer
spectroscopy show that superconductivity is confined to the CuO2 planes,
whereas magnetism is due to the Ru sublattice.
Scanning-tunneling-spectroscopy measurements reveal a superconducting
gap structure for the whole sample, indicating that the materials are of
single phase, which simultaneously manifest both superconductivity and
magnetism. [S0163-1829(97)50706-5]

Superconductivity (SC) and magnetism are two different ordered states
into which substances can condense at low temperatures and in general
these states are inimical to one another. In conventional _s_-wave
superconductors, local magnetic moments break up the spin singlet Cooper
pairs and hence strongly suppress SC, an effect known as pair breaking.
Therefore, a level of magnetic impurity of only 1

Much attention has been focused on a phase resembling the _R_BCO
materials, having the composition R1.5Ce0.5_M_Sr2Cu2O10 (_M_ -2122, M =
Nb, Ru, or Ta).3-5 The tetragonal M -2122 structure evolves from the
_R_BCO structure by inserting a fluorite type R1.5Ce0.5O2 layer instead
of the R layer in _R_BCO, thus shifting alternate perovskite blocks by
(_a_ + _b_)/2. The M ions reside in the Cu(1) site and only one distinct
Cu site [corresponding to Cu(2) in _R_BCO] with fivefold pyramidal
coordination exists. The hole doping of the Cu-O planes, which results
in metallic behavior and SC, can be optimized with appropriate variation
of the [_R_]/[Ce] ratio. Nb-2122 and Ru-2122 systems are SC with _T_c 28
and 42 K.3,6 Here we present a study on a new magnetic superconductor in
the ceramic HTSC materials, with a magnetic ordering well above the SC
state (_T_N/_T_c 4), a trend which is contrary to that observed in the
intermetallic systems. We demonstrate that R1.4Ce0.6RuSr2Cu2O10-_d_
(_R_CeRuSCO, R = Eu and Gd) compounds exhibit coexistence of bulk SC
(_T_c 32, 42 K) in the magnetic state (_T_N_ = 122, 180 K) for R = Gd
and Eu, respectively. In addition, our Mossbauer spectroscopy studies
(MS) on 57Fe-doped samples clearly indicate that the magnetic state is
confined to the Ru site. Scanning tunneling microscopy (STM) data, in
particular spatially resolved tunneling _I_-_V_ characteristics, suggest
that the samples are of single phase, and do not consist of mixed normal
(magnetic) and superconducting phases.

_R_CeRuSCO (and the 0.5 at.

The temperature dependence of the normalized resistivity for GdCeRuSCO
measured at H = 0 T is shown in Fig. 1(c) (inset). At high temperatures,
a metallic behavior is observed, and the _T_c = 42 K obtained is in
agreement with Ref. 6. An applied field of 5 T smears the onset of SC
and shifts it to 39 K. In GdCeRuSCO, SC occurs for Ce contents of
0.5-0.7, where the highest _T_c was obtained for Ce=0.6, the
concentration which has been studied here. Generally speaking, the
magnetization in these samples is composed of three contributions: (a) a
negative moment below _T_c due to the SC state, (b) a positive moment
due to the paramagnetic effective moment of R (_P_eff = 7.94_m_m_ for R
= Gd), and (c) a contribution from the ferromagneticlike behavior of the
Ru sublattice. In addition, there may be a positive contribution to the
magnetization, due to the fact that a small remanent field exists in our
superconducting quantum interference device magnetometer. This
artificial contribution will affect mainly the magnetization measured at
low applied fields. Zero-field-cooled (ZFC) and field-cooled (FC)
magnetic measurements were performed for a broad range of H strengths,
and typical susceptibility [_x_(_T_)] curves are shown in Fig. 1. At H =
5 Oe, both ZFC and FC branches exhibit two magnetic anomalies at 102 K
and at _T_irr = 172 K [Fig. 1(a)]. _T_irr is defined as the merging
temperature of the ZFC and FC branches (where the difference between the
branches becomes less than Δχ=1×10⁻² emu/mol Oe). No other anomalies
were observed at higher temperatures. Annealing in high oxygen pressure
(50 atm) did not affect this magnetic behavior. Our ac susceptibility
measurements (frequency 100 Hz at H = 1 Oe) show similar shape and
comparable dimensions to the ZFC curve [Fig. 1(b) (inset)]. No sign for
magnetic ordering of the Gd sublattice down to 1.5 K is observed, either
in ac or in dc measurements. As we shall argue, SC is confined to the
CuO₂ planes; therefore, all the magnetic anomalies in Figs. 1 are
related to the Ru-O planes. Note that T_(N)(Ru) _is not_ at
$T_{\rm irr}$. The χ(T) curves in Fig. 1 do not lend themselves to an
easy determination of T_(N)(Ru), because of the high susceptibility of
the Gd³⁺ ions which mask this transition. For this purpose we adapted
the MS technique, which clearly indicates that T_(N)(Ru) = 180(5) K. The
irreversibility at $T_{\rm irr}$ arises as a result of an antisymmetric
exchange coupling of the Dzyaloshinsky-Moriya (DM) type [7] between
neighboring Ru moments, induced by a local distortion that breaks the
tetragonal symmetry of the RuO₆ octahedra. Due to this DM interaction,
the field causes the spins to cast slightly out of their original
direction and to align a component of the moments with the direction of
H. At low temperatures, the Ru-Ru and/or Gd-Ru interactions begin to
dominate, leading to reorientation of the Ru moments, and the peak at
102 K is observed. The exact nature of the local structural distortions
causing this reorientation is not presently known. Note that the ZFC
branch is not negative below T_(c) , due to the remanent field in our
apparatus (discussed above), which induces a positive moment at
$T_{\rm irr}$ during the ZFC process.

At 50 Oe the diamagnetic signal due to the high shielding fraction (SF)
of the SC state dominates, and the net moment at low T is negative [Fig.
1(b)]. The weak ferromagnetic component of Ru and the high paramagnetic
effective moment of Gd³⁺ do not permit a quantitative determination of
the SF. T_(c) can also easily be determined from the deflection point in
the ZFC curve. Both the temperatures at which reorientation occurs and
$T_{\rm irr}$ are shifted to 80 and 112 K, respectively. This trend is
easily understood by recognizing it as a typical characteristic of
_weak_-ferromagnetic behavior. Isothermal magnetization measurements at
various temperatures (not shown) indicate that the Ru moment saturates
around 2 kOe; therefore, at this field both the anomalies and the
irreversibility are washed out [Fig. 1(c)]. Similar magnetic behavior
was observed in our ⁵⁷Fe-doped sample prepared for a MS study, presented
hereafter.

The magnetic behavior for EuCeRuSCO is shown in Fig. 2. At 40 Oe [Fig.
2(a)], the moment in the ZFC branch (below ∼18 K) is negative, and T_(c)
= 32 K was deduced from this curve and from resistivity measurements.
$T_{\rm irr}$=92 K, and no irreversibility phenomena are observed at 2
kOe. M(H) measurements at various temperatures have been performed, and
due to the low susceptibility of Eu³⁺ (J = 0), both the magnetic and the
SC states are clearly observed in the curves. At 5 K, (i) a small
hysteresis loop is opened below 1.5 kOe [Fig. 2(b) (inset)], and (ii)
the negative moments increase linearly up to 30 Oe [Fig. 2(a) (inset)],
typical for a SC state below $H_{\rm c1}$ . The estimated SF deducted
from this curve (ignoring possible contributions from Ru and/or Eu³⁺) is
∼30

Figure 1: ZFC and FC susceptibility curves for GdCeRuSCO measured at 5
and 50 Oe and at 2 kOe. Note the negative signal at H = 50 Oe. The
insets show the normalized resistivity (c) and the ac susceptibility
(b).

Figure 2: (a) The ZFC and FC susceptibility for EuCeRuSCO at 40 Oe and
(b) the isothermal magnetization as a function of the applied field. The
insets show (a) the magnetic hysteresis loop and (b) the negative field
dependence of the magnetization at 5 K at low applied fields.

T_(N)(Ru) = 122(1) K. The normalized σ_(s)(T)/σ_(s)(0) versus the
reduced temperature (T/T_(N)) are shown in Fig. 3, and will be discussed
later. For R = Gd, the M(H) curve at 5 K is not linear at high H and
therefore no easy determination of σ_(s)(0) can be made. Above
T_(N)(Ru), the χ(T) at 10 kOe for both samples adheres closely to the
Curie-Weiss law. Note that in the RCeRuSCO system both T_(c) and
T_(N)(Ru) are higher for R = Gd than for R = Eu. In that respect it
differs from similar M -2122 (M = Nb,Ta) systems in which T_(c) is the
same for any R measured.[8] However, this is of little interest in the
present discussion.

MS has been proved to be a powerful tool in the determination of the
magnetic nature of the Fe site location. When the ions of this site
become magnetically ordered, they produce an exchange field on the Fe
ions residing in this site. The Fe nuclei experience a magnetic
hyperfine field leading to a sextet in the observed MS spectra. As the
temperature is raised, the magnetic splitting decreases and disappears
at T_(N). It is well accepted that in Y-Ba-Cu-O, the Fe atoms are found
to occupy predominantly the Cu(1) site.[9]

The main effect to be seen in Fig. 4 is that the MS spectra of GdCeRuSCO
consist of one site only, below and above T_(N)(Ru). A least-square fit
to the spectrum at 180 K yields an isomer shift (IS) of 0.30(1)
(relative to Fe metal) with a linewidth of 0.35, and a quadrupole
splitting (Δ_(Q) = $\frac{1}{2}\varepsilon q\,Q$) of 1.00(1) mm/s
values. We attribute this doublet to Fe ions in the Ru site. This
interpretation is consistent with (i) the similarity of the chemical
properties of Fe and Ru (Ru resides below Fe in the periodic table) and
(ii) and with the fact that in most HTSC materials the Fe atoms are
found to occupy predominantly the Cu(1) site, which is equivalent to the
Ru site in the RCeRuSCO. At low temperatures, all spectra display
magnetic hyperfine splitting, which is a clear evidence for long-range
magnetic ordering. The fitting parameters of the single sextet obtained
at 4.1 K are IS = 0.40(1) mm/s, $H_{\rm eff}$(0) = 467(3) kOe, and an
effective quadrupole splitting value of $\Delta_{\rm eff}$ =
$\frac{1}{2}\varepsilon Q\,q_{\rm eff}$ = − 0.33(21) mm/s. Using the
relation $\Delta_{\rm eff}$ = Δ_(Q)/2(3 cos²Θ = 1), we obtained for the
Ru site a hyperfine field orientation, Θ = 72^(∘), relative to the
tetragonal symmetry c axis. As the temperature is raised, $H_{\rm eff}$
decreases and disappears completely at T_(N)(Ru) = 180(5) K.
$H_{\rm eff}$ values obtained at 110, 130, 150, and 160 K are 399(3),
358(5), 312(2), and 279(5) kOe. The variation of the normalized
$H_{\rm eff}(T)/H_{\rm eff}(0)$ values, as a function of the reduced
temperature, is exhibited in Fig. 3. Close to 180 K, due to a
distribution of T_(N) resulting from inhomogeneity in the local
environment of Fe throughout the Ru site, a distribution in
$H_{\rm eff}$ is assumed and a paramagnetic doublet in the central area
of the spectra is observed.

It was shown theoretically[10] for all Fe-doped Y-Ba-Cu-O (as well as M
-2122) materials, that _when Fe reflects the magnetic behavior of Cu(2)
sites,_ the normalized $H_{\rm eff}$ values fall on one universal curve,
regardless of Fe or oxygen concentration and whether Y is replaced by
Pr. The model assumes that the temperature dependence of magnetization
of Cu(2) and Fe³⁺ as a probe behaves like spin-$\frac{1}{4}$ and
spin-$\frac{5}{2}$ systems and that the Fe-Cu exchange is only 26

We suggest two scenarios that could lead to the observed phenomena. A
central assumption is that Ru in RCeRuSCO orders magnetically at
elevated temperatures, and bulk SC is confined to the CuO₂ planes. Both
sublattices are practically decoupled, and thus the present system is
the first magnetic-superconducting system in the HTSC-based materials.
Supporting evidence for this interpretation is (1) the bulk SF obtained
for R = Eu in the SC state, and (2) the overlapping of the two
normalized curves exhibited in Fig. 3. The second interpretation invokes
an analogy to inhomogeneous materi

Figure 4: Mössbauer spectra of 0.5

Figure 3: The temperature dependence of (i) the normalized hyperfine
field acting on Fe in the Ru sites for R = Gd (hollow squares, left
scale) and (ii) the reduced magnetic moment of Ru deduced from magnetic
measurements for R = Eu (right scale). The dashed line is the universal
theoretical curve for Fe-Cu exchange strength. Note the deviation of the
experimental data from the universal curve.

als; e.g., the reason for the two physical phenomena are grains with
different oxygen concentrations; part of them are SC and the rest
magnetic. Moreover, one may argue that the magnetic anomalies exhibited
in Figs. 1 and 2 are due to an SrRuO₃ impurity phase which is
ferromagnetically ordered at 165 K.[11] In order to reconcile these
arguments we have prepared pure and Fe-doped SrRuO₃ samples, and
measured their magnetic and MS properties. The measured χ(T) curve (at
10 Oe) is a typical one obtained for a ferromagneticlike sample, and in
the MS spectra at T>90 K there is no sign whatsoever of magnetic order,
indicating a weak-coupling Fe-Ru. Our measurements are consistent with
Ref. 11, and are completely different from the data presented in Figs.
1−4. In addition, our STM topography and spectroscopy measurements,
described in the next paragraphs, are not consistent, to say the least,
with the mixed granular magnetic-SC picture.

The STM topographic images were measured in the constant current mode,
where a feedback circuit controls the tip-sample separation for a given
setting of the tunneling current I_(s) and tip bias V_(s). These images
reveal relatively rough surface morphology, with rms roughness amplitude
around 50 A, and surface features of typically a few hundred A lateral
size. The I-V curves were acquired while momentarily interrupting the
feedback circuit. At each lateral tip position these characteristics
were taken with different settings, i.e., with different tip-sample
separations.

The principal observation of our STM spectroscopy measurements at 4.2 K
is the existence of spectroscopic gaps in the I-V characteristics, which
vary in width and shape along the surface of the samples, yet never
vanish. However, the width of the gap at a _specific_ lateral tip
position is not altered by changing the STM setting, indicating that
single electron charging effects, e.g., the Coulomb blockade, do not
contribute to the spectroscopic gaps.[12] Furthermore, _all_I-V curves
measured at ∼45 K (_above_T_(c)) exhibit an Ohmic, gapless behavior for
small biases, independent of tip position or STM setting. These findings
clearly indicate that all the gaps are of SC origin.

The I-V characteristics were fit using Dyne’s expression[13] for
lifetime broadened quasiparticle density of states. Thus, two fitting
parameters were used: the SC gap parameter Δ, and the lifetime
broadening of the quasiparticle eigenstates, Γ. In Fig. 5 we present
typical experimental I-V characteristics at 4.2 K for the R=Eu and Gd
samples, together with fits to Dyne’s function (smooth lines). In the
inset we plot the normalized differential tunneling conductance,
manifesting the superconductor quasiparticle density of states. The zero
bias conductance apparent from these curves is ∼13

We found that for both R=Gd and Eu samples, the ratio 2 Δ/k_(B)T (k_(B)
is the Boltzmann constant) is in the range 4−7, which is compatible with
what was found for Y-Ba-Cu-O.[15] The variation of Δ along the sample
may be attributed to (a) inhomogeneity of oxygen content over the
sample, or (b) the large gap anisotropy expected for HTSC’s[14] noting
that our samples are polycrystalline, so that tunneling may occur in
different crystallographic directions for different tip positions. Note
that we did not find sharp spatial transitions between superconducting
and normal neighboring surface regions, as might be expected for a
granular specimen.[12] Moreover, since we expect SC to be more
vulnerable at the surface as compared to the bulk, we can infer SC to
the bulk as well. Thus, the STM findings are evidence that our samples
are really of single phase, and do not consist of separate
superconducting and magnetic grains.

In conclusion, we provide strong evidence that both SC and weak
ferromagnetism coexist in RCeRuSCO and are an intrinsic property of this
system. In contrast to other intermetallic magnetic-SC systems, the
present materials exhibit magnetic order well above the SC transition
(T_(N)/T_(c)∼4). We attribute the magnetic order to the Ru sublattice,
whereas SC is confined to the CuO₂ planes. Both sites are practically
decoupled from each other.

This research was supported by the Klachky Foundation for
Superconductivity.

## References

* [1]_Superconductivity in Ternary Compounds_, edited by M. B. Maple and
O. Fisher (Springer-Verlag, Berlin, 1982), Vol. II. * [2] H. Eisake _et
al._, Phys. Rev. B, **50**, 647 (1994). * [3] L. Rukang _et al._,
Physica C **176**, 19 (1991). * [4] R. J. Cava _et al._, Physica C
**191**, 237 (1992). * [5] I. Felner _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **49**, 6903
(1994); **51**, 3120 (1995). * [6] L. Bauerntfield _et al._, Physica C
**254**, 151 (1995). * [7] D. Lyndolinsky, J. Phys. Chem. Solids **4**,
241 (1958). * [8] M. Bennahmias _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **53**, 2773
(1996). * [9] I. Felner _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **49**, 686 (1994). *
[10] I. Nowik _et al._, Solid State Commun. **74**, 957 (1990). * [11]
T. C. Gibb _et al._, Solid State Chem. **14**, 193 (1975). * [12] E.
Bar-Sadeh _et al._, Phys. Rev. B, **52**, 6734 (1995); **53**, 3482
(1996). * [13] R. C. Dynes _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **41**, 1509
(1978). * [14] J. Kane and K. W. Ng, Phys. Rev. B **53**, 2819 (1996). *
[15] H. L. Edwards _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **69**, 2967 (1992). *
[16] O. Millo _et al._, J. Low Temp. Phys. (to be published).

Figure 5: Tunneling I-V characteristics at 4.2 K of R=Eu and Gd samples.
The theoretical curves (smooth lines) were calculated using Dyne’s
function (see text). The inset shows the normalized differential
conductance.
