SmBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) ceramics processed under oxygen pressure of 250 bar:
Enhancement of intragrain superconducting properties

Z. Bukowski, T. Plackowski, C. Sulkowski, D. Wlosewicz, and A. J.
Zaleski

Institute of Low Temperature and Structure Research, Polish Academy of
Sciences, P.O. Box 937, 50-950 Wroclaw 2, Poland

18 July 1995

###### Abstract

Polycrystalline samples of SmBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) have been processed under
oxygen pressure of 250 bar. Several of their properties typical for
highly oxygenated "123" phases were revealed: T_(c)=96 K as measured by
ac magnetic susceptibility, high orthorhombic distortion of the unit
cell, negative thermopower at room temperature, an exceptionally high
specific-heat jump at T_(c), highly irreversible magnetization at 4.2 K,
and almost 100

## Introduction

The structure and superconducting properties of fully oxidized
_R_Ba₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) compounds (_R_ = Y or lanthanides except Ce, Pr, Tb)
are very similar although a weak dependence of critical temperature
T_(c) on the radius of the R ion has been reported.1 Despite these
similarities the important differences exist between compounds with
larger R3+ ionic radius (La, Pr, Nd, Sm, Eu, Gd) and those with smaller
R3+ ionic radius (Y and Dy, Ho, Er, Tm, Yb, Lu). The rare-earth ions
from the first group are large enough to partially substitute on the Ba
sites resulting in solid solutions with the general formula R
(Ba_(2 − x)_R__(x))Cu₃O_(7 − δ) compounds.2 In these solid solutions,
the superconducting properties are degraded with increasing x. The
tendency of substitution of Ba by R ions causes serious problems in
obtaining phases with exact "123" cation stoichiometry. However, Wada
_et al._3 reported successful preparation of LaBa₂Cu₃O₇ phase with zero
resistance at 92 K avoiding substitution of La for Ba by annealing in
nitrogen. Another difficulty in preparation of good quality samples of
the _R_Ba₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) compounds with larger R3+ ions is their higher
sensitivity to the oxygen deficiency. As the ionic radius of the R3+ ion
becomes larger, the falloff of _T_c becomes more rapid with oxygen
depletion and the oxygen stoichiometry, where superconductivity
disappears, moves to higher values.4-7 It is well established that the
fully oxidized and good quality samples of YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) possess not
only the sharp superconducting transition above 90 K but also reveal
negative thermopower, e.g., Ref. 8, and a distinct jump of the specific
heat at _T_c, e.g., Ref. 9. The last two features have not been reported
so far for _R_Ba₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) compounds with larger R3+ ions probably
due to difficulties in obtaining samples with exact 123 stoichiometry
and their higher sensitivity to oxygen deficiency.

Recently, it has been shown that the T_(c) of Nd_(1 + x)Ba_(2 − x)Cu₃O₇
(0.1≤x≤0.6) could be increased by synthesizing and annealing the
compound under high oxygen pressure.10,11 These results stimulated us to
apply similar high pressure treatment to SmBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) with exact
123 cation stoichiometry, as a member of _R_Ba₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) family with
large R3+ ionic radius. In this work we present the results of
electrical resistivity, ac and dc magnetic susceptibility, thermopower
and specific heat measurements for two SmBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) samples,
differently processed under elevated pressure of oxygen.

## Experiment

Samples of SmBa₂Cu₃O₇ were prepared by the conventional solid state
reaction. Stoichiometric quantities of BaCO₃ (spectroscopically pure),
Sm₂O₃ (99.9

The phase composition and lattice parameters were determined by x-ray
powder diffraction using Cu _K_a radiation. Microscopic observations of
samples were performed on fractured surfaces using a Philips SM-515
scanning electron microscope (SEM) equipped with an energy dispersive
x-ray (EDX) spectrometer. The average copper valence _V_Cu was
determined by the iodometric titration method proposed by Nazzal _et
al._12 The oxygen content (7-δ) was then calculated using charge
neutrality (assuming that the cation stoichiometry was known).

ac magnetic susceptibility was measured using Lake Shore 7000
susceptometer in the ac field of 10 Oe and frequency 111.1 Hz. dc
magnetization measurements in superconducting state were performed at
4.2 K in magnetic field oriented parallel to long dimension of the
cylindrical sample.

The thermopower (_S_) was measured in the temperature range 4.2-300 K
using a differential technique in helium gas with respect to two copper
blocks. The absolute accuracy averaged 15

The specific heat measurements were carried out in the automated
adiabatic calorimeter as depicted in Ref. 13. The sample was located on
a flat holder of the heat capacity equivalent to  200 mg Cu at the room
temperature and glued by a weighted amount of Apiezon T grease and
aluminium powder mixture. Two independent adiabatic screens were used to
minimize energy exchange with the surrounding. The calorimeter operation
is alternatively combining two different modes: a heat pulse method with
better absolute accuracy and a faster continuous method with better
resolution. The typical heating rate for both methods is 5-10 mK/s. The
mass of samples varied around 500 mg.

The resistivity (_r_) measurements were performed by standard four-probe
method in the temperature range 4.2-300 K. The samples were cut from the
pellets into the shape of bars of  8x1x1 mm3.

## RESULTS AND DISCUSSION

Powder x-ray-diffraction analysis indicated that all obtained
SmBa2Cu3O7-_d_ samples (LP, HP1, and HP2) were single phase. However,
small amounts of BaCuO2 phase were detected during SEM observations. The
lattice parameters and the oxygen content for all samples are presented
in Table 1. All samples revealed high oxygen content and high
orthorhombic distortion (_b_ - _a_)/(_a_ + _b_), with respect to
SmBa2Cu3O7-_d_ samples prepared by other authors.14 It is interesting to
note that even after processing under elevated oxygen pressure the
oxygen content did not exceed the value of 7.

The real χ^(′) and the imaginary χ^(′′) parts of ac magnetic
susceptibility for the as-prepared LP and two processed at elevated
oxygen pressure SmBa2Cu3O7-_d_ samples, HP1 and HP2, in the vicinity of
the superconducting transition are shown in Fig. 1. It is seen that for
HP2 sample the superconducting transition is very sharp with an onset at
temperature about 96.0 K. This is one of the highest critical
temperatures found for 123 type family. This result confirms earlier
observations that _T_c of _R_Ba2Cu3O7-_d_ phases increases with
increasing ionic radius of R3+1.13,16 The behavior of imaginary part of
susceptibility is rather unusual. The behavior of χ^(′′) for as-prepared
LP sample is characteristic for all ceramic compounds. There is a rather
sharp peak connected with ac losses

  -------- ------- ------- -------- ------------------------------ -------------
   Sample   a [Å]   b [Å]   c [Å]    _(_b_ - _a_)/(_a_ + _b_) [%]     7− _δ_
     LP     3.846   3.911   11.730               0.84               6.95 ± 0.05
    HP1     3.845   3.907   11.727               0.80               6.90 ± 0.05
    HP2     3.845   3.910   11.721               0.84               7.00 ± 0.05
  -------- ------- ------- -------- ------------------------------ -------------

Table 1: The lattice parameters, a, b, and c, orthorhombicity parameter
(_b_ - _a_)/(_a_ + _b_), as well as the oxygen content (7− _δ_) for
initial (LP) and for two processed under elevated pressure of oxygen
(HP1, HP2) SmBa2Cu3O7−_δ_ samples.

Figure 1: The real χ^(′) (a) and the imaginary χ^(′′) (b) part of ac
magnetic susceptibility in the vicinity of the superconducting
transition for SmBa2Cu3O7−_δ_ Symbols denote (□) the initial LP sample,
and (■) HP1, and (○) HP2, the two samples processed under elevated
pressure of oxygen.

inside the grains and a broad maximum ascribed to intergranular losses.
For the sample HP1, it is seen that the grains are almost completely
decoupled and intergranular losses are close to zero. Quite unsuspected
is the behavior of χ^(′′) for HP2 sample, which strongly increases at
T_(c) and remains constant down to 4.2 K. We are not able now to explain
such a behavior.

The temperature dependences of the thermopower, S(T), for the three
SmBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) samples, LP, HP1, and HP2, are shown in Fig. 2. The
S(T) for LP-SmBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) sample is typical as for YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ)
compound with oxygen deficiency of δ=0.20.[17] For the both
HP-SmBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) samples the thermopower is negative and weakly
depends on temperature; similar behavior has been observed for
YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) polycrystalline samples [8, 18, 19, 20] and crystals in
ab plane,[19, 21] when δ is below 0.05. According to our knowledge, up
to now, negative values of thermopower have never been observed for 123
compounds with rare earths with large ionic R³⁺ radius, like Sm (the
lowest, but positive value of S for SmBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) was reported in
Ref. 22).

dc magnetization measurements for HP2-SmBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) in low magnetic
field up to 100 Oe showed the shielding of magnetic flux at 77 K
corresponding to 90-100

The specific heat over temperature C_(p)/T versus temperature in the
vicinity of superconducting transition is presented in Fig. 3. The
entropy-conserving construction was used for determination of the height
of the specific heat jumps. The dotted line in Fig. 3 shows an example
of this construction for HP2 sample. A clear upturn of C_(p)/T near the
middle of the transition with respect to the straight lines extrapolated
from temperatures off the middle is probably connected with
superconducting fluctuations. The values of ΔC_(p) and of thermopower at
room temperature S₃₀₀, which are summarized in Table 2, locates well
all, i.e., LP, HP1, and HP2, samples in the mutual S₃₀₀ versus ΔC_(p)
linear dependence reported in our previous work[26] for 90 K 123
samples. Up to now, only few authors reported the observation of the
weak specific heat anomaly at T_(c) for the 123 compounds from the group
with larger R³⁺ ionic radius, i.e., with Sm,[27] with Eu,[28] and with
Gd.[29, 30] The pronounced jump in C_(p)(T) at T_(c) for HP2 sample,
which is a member of this group, is of the height comparable with the
best YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) samples.

All data described above indicate that the annealing of
SmBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) compound under elevated oxygen pressure at temperature
∼400 ^(∘)C lead to significant improvement of its superconducting and
transport properties. Nevertheless,

Figure 3: The specific heat over temperature C_(p)/T for
SmBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) in the vicinity of superconducting temperature.
Symbols denote (△) the initial LP sample, and (▫) HP1 and (○) HP2, the
two samples processed under elevated pressure of oxygen. The dotted line
shows the entropy-conserving construction used for estimating the
specific heat jump at T_(c) for the HP2 sample.

Figure 2: The temperature dependence of the thermopower S for
SmBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ): LP—the initial sample; HP1 and HP2—two samples
processed under elevated pressure of oxygen.

the electrical resistivity ρ changed in a quite different manner. Figure
4(a) presents the temperature dependence of ρ of the three
SmBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) samples. The relatively low room temperature value of
ρ(300 K)≈2.5 m Ω cm with respect to other polycrystalline 123 samples
[26] and the linear temperature dependence indicate a good quality of
the initial LP sample. As seen in the Fig. 4(b), a sharp drop at 95 K
occurs, followed by a longer tail. The zero resistivity is reached at
about 90 K. However, the room temperature value of the thermopower S(300
K)=6.1±1 μV/K locates this sample near the edge of the 90 K plateau.[26]
A drastic change in comparison to LP sample is observed for both HP
samples. The very high value of ρ(300 K)≈14 and 15 m Ω cm, for HP1 and
HP2 samples, respectively, the semiconductorlike temperature dependence
above T_(c) and very long, strongly dependent on the measurement current
tails below T_(c) were observed. Nevertheless, the sharp drops in ρ(T)
were observed for the same temperature T_(c) =95 K as for the LP initial
sample. This behavior of ρ(T) suggests that oxidizing process at
elevated pressure causes worsening of the electrical contacts between
the grains. We would like to underline that the HP samples did not
become brittle, so that the explanation of the poor contacts by just
space separation of grains seems less probable. The possible reason
might be the BaCuO₂ phase precipitated on the grain boundaries, as seen
on SEM picture in Fig. 5; however, other mechanism of the grains
boundaries degradation cannot be ruled out.

## Conclusions

A SmBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) compound from the family of 123 phases with large
R³⁺ ionic radius has been obtained using elevated oxygen pressure
processing. Its superconducting parameters were of the quality, which,
up to now, were observed only for 123 compounds with smaller R³⁺ ionic
radius. Namely, for our HP-SmBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) samples we observed
T_(c)=95 K (from ac susceptibility measurements even T_(c)=96 K for HP2
sample), which is one of the highest critical temperatures observed in
123 family. Moreover, we observed the high orthorhombic distortion of
the unit cell, and for HP2 sample: the negative value of thermopower,
exceptionally high specific heat jump at T_(c) , almost 100

Despite all the above, the temperature dependence of the electrical
resistivity is very peculiar. In contrast to the all 90 K 123
superconductors, including the initial LP-SmBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) sample, the
HP1- and HP2-SmBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) samples revealed high resistivity value
at room temperature and the semiconductorlike ρ(T) dependence. The
superconducting transition was observed as a sharp drop at 95 K followed
by a very long tail, strongly

Figure 4: The temperature dependence of electrical resistivity ρ for
SmBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ): LP—the initial sample; HP1 and HP2—two samples
processed under elevated pressure of oxygen: (a) the whole temperature
range and (b) the vicinity of the superconducting transition. The solid
and dotted lines denote the ρ measurement with current of 1 and 0.1 mA,
respectively.

Figure 5: SEM picture of the HP1-SmBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) sample fractured
surface. Between the grains the BaCuO₂ phase is visible.

dependent on the measurement current. These ρ(T) dependences indicates
that the elevated oxygen pressure processing of SmBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ)
samples resulted in degradation of grain boundaries. The question
whether this degradation is an inherent feature of samples of high-T_(c)
superconductors treated this way is still open and further studies are
needed.

###### Acknowledgements.

The pressure furnace used for the samples oxygenation was granted by
Foundation for Polish Sciences under Contract SEZAM No. 99/94. The
authors would like to express gratitude for E. Bukowska for oxygen
analysis.

## References

* [1] T. J. Kistenmacher, Solid State Commun. **65**, 981 (1988). * [2]
K. Zhang, B. Dabrowski, C. U. Segre, D. G. Hinks, Ivan K. Schuller, J.
D. Jorgensen, and M. Slanski, J. Phys. C **20**, L935 (1987). * [3] T.
Wada, N. Suzuki, T. Maeda, S. Uchida, K. Uchinokura, and T. Tanaka,
Appl. Phys. Lett. **52**, 1989 (1988). * [4] M. Buchgeister, W. Hiller,
S. M. Hosseini, K. Kopitzki, and D. Wagener, in _High Temperature
Superconductors–Physics and Material Science_, Vol. 181 of _NATO
Advanced Study Institute_, Series E, edited by R. Kossowsky, S.
Methfessel, and D. Wohlleben (Kluwer Academic, Dordrecht, 1990), p.
319. * [5] M. Buchgeister, W. Hiller, S. M. Hosseini, K. Kopitzki, and
D. Wagener, _Proceedings of the International Conference on Transport
Properties of Superconductors_, Brazil, 1990, edited by R. Nicolsky
(World Scientific, Singapore, 1990), p. 511. * [6] M. Kogachi, S.
Nakanishi, K. Nakahigashi, H. Sasakura, S. Minamigawa, N. Fukuoka, and
A. Yanase, Jpn. J. Appl. Phys. **28**, L609 (1989). * [7] B. W. Veal, A.
P. Paulikas, J. W. Downey, H. Claus, K. Vandervoort, G. Tomlins, H. Shi,
M. Jensen, and L. Morss, Physica C **162-164**, 97 (1989). * [8] C.
Sulkowski, K. Rogacki, Z. Bukowski, R. Horyn, and E. Trojanar, Physica C
**153-155**, 1337 (1988). * [9] H. Claus, M. Braun, A. Erb, K. Rohberg,
B. Rantsch, H. Wuhl, G. Brauchle, P. Sweib, G. Muller-Vogt, and H. v.
Lohneysen, Physica C **198**, 42 (1992). * [10] K. K. Singh, D. E.
Morris, and A. P. B. Sinha, Physica C **224**, 231 (1994). * [11] K.
Takita, H. Akinaga, T. Oshima, Y. Takeda, and M. Takano, Physica C
**191**, 509 (1992). * [12] A. I. Nazzal, V. Y. Lee, E. M. Engler, R. D.
Jacowitz, Y. Tokura, and J. B. Torrance, Physica C **153-155**, 1367
(1988). * [13] D. Wlosewicz, T. Plackowski, and K. Rogacki, Cryogenics
**32**, 265 (1992). * [14] M. Guillaume, P. Allenspach, J. Mesot, B.
Roessli, U. Staub, P. Fischer, and A. Furrer, Z. Phys. B **90**, 139
(1993). * [15] H. E. Horng, Physica B **148**, 472 (1987). * [16] J. L.
Tallon and N. E. Flower, Physica C **204**, 237 (1993). * [17] P. J.
Ouseph and M. Ray O’Bryan, Phys. Rev. B **41**, 4123 (1990). * [18]
J.-S. Zhou, J. P. Zhou, J. B. Goodenough, and J. T. McDevitt, Phys. Rev.
B **51**, 3250 (1995). * [19] R. C. Yu, M. J. Naughton, X. Yan, P. M.
Chaikin, F. Holtzberg, R. L. Greene, J. Stuart, and P. Devies, Phys.
Rev. B **37**, 7963 (1988). * [20] Z. Henkie, P. J. Markowski, R. Horyn,
Z. Bukowski, and J. Klamut, Phys. Status Solidi B **146**, K131
(1988). * [21] C. K. Subramaniam, H. J. Trodahl, A. B. Kaiser, and B. J.
Ruck, Phys. Rev. B **51**, 3116 (1995). * [22] P. C. Jana and R. C.
Bhuijra, J. Phys. D **26**, 281 (1993). * [23] C. P. Bean, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **8**, 250 (1962). * [24] J. G. Ossandon, J. R. Thompson, D. K.
Christen, B. C. Sales, H. R. Kerchner, J. O. Thompson, Y. R. Sun, K. W.
Lay, and J. E. Tkaczyk, Phys. Rev. B **45**, 1253 (1992). * [25] E. C.
Jones, D. K. Christen, J. R. Thompson, R. Fenstra, S. Zhu, D. H.
Lowndes, J. M. Phillips, M. Siegal, and J. D. Budai, Phys. Rev. B
**47**, 8986 (1993). * [26] T. Plackowski, D. Wlosewicz, C. Sulkowski,
and K. Rogacki, Physica C **244**, 54 (1995). * [27] C.
Escribe-Fillipini, K. Konate, R. Buder, J. Marcus, and C. Schlenker,
Physica C **153-155**, 1030 (1988). * [28] G. Bednarz, G. Stroink, and
M. A. White, Physica C **165**, 385 (1990). * [29] V. B. Lazarev, I. S.
Shaplygin, K. S. Gavrichev, I. A. Konovalova, V. E. Gorbunov, and E. A.
Tistchenko, Physica C **153-155**, 1024 (1988). * [30] M. E. Reeves _et
al._, Phys. Rev. B **36**, 6915 (1987).
