Magnetic-field effect on the specific heat of
PrBa₂(Cu_(1 − x)Ga_(x))₃O_(7 − δ)

H. D. Yang

Department of Physics, National Sun Yat-Sen University, Kaohsiung,
Taiwan 804, Republic of China

H. L. Tsay

Department of Physics, National Sun Yat-Sen University, Kaohsiung,
Taiwan 804, Republic of China

Y. C. Chen

Department of Electrical Engineering, National Sun Yat-Sen University,
Kaohsiung, Taiwan 804, Republic of China

14 November 1994; revised manuscript received 6 July 1995

###### Abstract

The specific heat of PrBa₂(Cu_(1 − x)Ga_(x))₃O_(7 − δ) (_x_ = 0, 0.04,
and 0.08; _δ_ -0.1) in magnetic fields up to 8 T was studied. A
depression of antiferromagnetic transition temperature T_(N) for Pr ions
with Ga substitution becomes evident through broad specific-heat
anomalies peaked at 17, 14, and 10 K for x = 0, 0.04, and 0.08,
respectively. Both the magnitude of the anomaly and the T_(N) values can
be suppressed with magnetic field as often observed in conventional
antiferromagnetic transitions. The specific-heat data above or below
T_(N) increase with Ga substitution. In addition, by fitting them to C =
_A_/_T_2+_γ_T_+_BT_3 in the temperature range 0.6 <= T <= 5 K, the
linear term coefficient _γ_ of the specific heat increases with x and
decreases with magnetic field. These results suggest that the unusually
large value of _γ_ in PrBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) may be partially due to the
strong magnetic correlation among Pr ions.

The absence of superconductivity and anomalous magnetic properties of
PrBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) have received a great deal of interest since this
compound was first synthesized. This compound forms the same
orthorhombic structure as high-_T_2 YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ), but it is strongly
not superconducting.1 Meanwhile, an antiferromagnetic Pr ordering in
PrBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) was observed below T_(N) = 17 K by
magnetic-susceptibility, specific-heat, and neutron-diffraction
measurements.2-4 Extensive experiments on the depression of T_(c) with
increasing x in Y1-_x_Pr_(x)Ba₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) have been reported, and
various mechanisms for the magnetic coupling interactions responsible
for the high T_(N) in PrBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) have been proposed.4-6 In
general, PrBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) exhibits at least the following unusual
magnetic properties compared to its isomorphic magnetic rare-earth
compounds. (1) The value of _m_eff derived from magnetic susceptibility
is considerably lower than the expected value of 3.58_m_B_ for the Pr³⁺
free ion.1,2 (2) The magnetic ordering temperature T_(N) = 17 K is about
two orders of magnitude higher than expected if one scales the T_(N) for
GdBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) (T_(N) = 2.2 K) assuming either purely dipolar
interactions or the Ruderman-Kittel-Kasuya-Yosida (RKKY) exchange. (3)
Unlike _χ_(_T_) for a conventional antiferromagnetic ordering, where the
magnetic susceptibility decreases below T_(N), the magnetic
susceptibility of PrBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) increases below the apparent
ordering temperature.2,7 (4) In contrast to GdBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ), the T_(N)
of PrBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) remains essentially unchanged with Zn substitution
but is suppressed substantially with Ga substitution, indicating that
the magnetic coupling mechanisms in GdBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) and
PrBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) are different in nature.7 (5) The Pr spins are
arranged antiferromagnetically along all three crystallographic
directions. However, the spin arrangement along the c axis changes from
antiparallel to parallel by partial doping with Zn and Ga.8,9 (6) In
contrast to the suppression of T_(N) for GdBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) by magnetic
field,10 the T_(N) of PrBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) is basically field independent
up to 5 T.2 (7) The relatively high value [300 mJ/mol K2 (Ref. 3) or 200
mJ/Pr mol K2 (Ref. 11)] of the Sommerfeld constant _γ_ determined from
specific-heat measurements is comparable to that of heavy-fermion
systems. Among these, it is of particular interest to study the
correlation between the high T_(N) and the large _γ_ in
PrBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ). In this work, we present the magnetic-field
dependence of specific-heat data for PrBa₂(Cu_(1 − x)Ga_(x))₃O_(7 − δ)
to examine the magnetic-field effects on _γ_ as well as the correlation
of _γ_ and T_(N).

Polycrystalline samples of PrBa₂(Cu_(1 − x)Ga_(x))₃O_(7 − δ) (_x_ = 0,
0.04, and 0.08; _δ_ -0.1) were synthesized by the standard
solid-state-reaction method. Details of their preparation and
characterization have been described elsewhere.7 The specific heat of
individual small samples ( 2 mg) was measured in the temperature range
0.6 - 40 K with a
3${}^{\rm{\small{\rm{\rm{\rm{\rm{\rm{\rm{\rm{\rm{\rm{\rm{\rm{\rm{\rm{\rm{\rm{\rm{\rm{\rm{            }}}}}}}}}}}}}}}$
thermal relaxation calorimeter using the heat-pulse technique12 at
fields of 0, 4, and 8 T. The samples were attached to a sapphire chip
(sample holder in calorimeter), which has two separated silicon films
deposited on it to serve as the heater and thermometer, respectively.
The Si-film thermometer was calibrated against either a precalibrated
germanium thermometer in zero field or a precalibrated capacitance
sensor in field measurements. The chip was then connected to a
constant-temperature copper block with a weak thermal link, for which
thermal conductance _ω_ was measured at each temperature and field by
applying a small power P = _ξ_(_T_sample-_T_block) to the chip. When the
power was turned off, the sample temperature relaxed exponentially to
the block temperature with a time constant _τ_ = _C_/_ω_. Thus the total
heat capacity C was obtained. The uncertainty of this system estimated
from measurements of reference sample Cu ( 2.5 mg Cerac product 99.999

Figure 2: C/T vs T of PrBa₂(Cu_(1 − x)Ga_(x))₃O_(7 − δ) in the vicinity
of antiferromagnetic transition temperatures for x = 0, 0.04, and 0.08
with H = 0, 4, and 8 T.

Figure 1: Molar specific heat divided by temperature C/T as a function
of temperature T for PrBa₂(Cu_(1 − x)Ga_(x))₃O_(7 − δ) with x = 0, 0.04,
and 0.08.

temperature limit. The γ value increases with Ga doping concentration
for the same field. The enhancement of γ with various dopants has been
observed in Fe-doped Y_(1 − x)Pr_(x)Ba₂Cu₃O₇ (Ref. [3]) and Zn-doped
La_(1.85)Sr_(0.15)CuO₄ (Ref. [18]), which were thought to be associated
with the atomic disorder or localization effects. On the other hand, the
γ value decreases with increasing fields for all three samples in this
work. The H dependence of the γ value suggests that it may be associated
with low-energy magnetic excitations in the ordered state. It has been
reported that[19] in heavy-fermion systems the γ values show little (<20

It is interesting to study the correlation between the anomalously high
T_(N) and the large γ value in Pr-based cuprates. These parameters for
six selected Pr-based compounds including Pr₂CuO₄, PrBa₂Cu₂NbO₈,
PrSr₂Cu₂,Mo_(0.3)O₇, and PrBa₂(Cu_(1 − x)Ga_(x))₃O₇ (x=0, 0.04, and
0.08) are listed in Table 2 for comparison. Where the Pr₂CuO₄ forms a
T^(′)-type structure consisting of only the square-planar CuO₄
arrangement with no apical oxygen atoms, the PrBa₂Cu₂NbO₈ and
PrSr₂Cu₂,Mo_(0.3)O₇ have a similar structure to PrBa₂Cu₃O₇ but with NbO₂
planes replacing the CuO chains and Sr-O replacing the Ba-O,
respectively. Indeed, Pr₂CuO₄ seems to have very different structural
and physical properties from the other five compounds. Thus Pr₂CuO₄ has
no indication of a magnetic ordering transition and an effective
magnetic moment $\mu_{\rm eff}$∼3.51μ_(B) close to the 3.58μ_(B) for the
free Pr³⁺ ion, as well as a metal-like γ value suggesting a nonmagnetic
ground state.[20] In contrast, the anomalous properties of the other
five compounds may be attributed to their unique magnetic and/or
electronic structure characteristic of Pr ions. Furthermore, it is
difficult to correlate the large γ value with the high T_(N) from the
information listed in Table 2. A high T_(N) (∼12 K) with a small γ in
PrBa₂Cu₂NbO₈ (Ref. [21]) and a low T_(N) (<0.6 K) with a large γ in
PrSr₂Cu_(2.2),Mo_(0.3)O₇ (Ref. [16]) imply that the large γ value is not
necessarily a result of the strong magnetic coupling (high T_(N))
between Pr ions. Moreover, a similar relation is also seen in an
increase of γ with a decrease of the high T_(N) in
PrBa₂(Cu_(1 − x)Ga_(x))₃O_(7 − δ). Therefore the primary origin of large
γ values in Pr-based cuprates is still unclear.

In summary, magnetic-field effects on the specific heat of

  ------------------------------ -------------- ------------------------- --------------- --------------
  Compound                         T_(N) (K)     $\mu_{\rm eff}$ (μ_(B))   γ (mJ/mol K²)       Ref.
  Pr₂CuO₄                         not observed            3.51                  1.5             20
  PrBa₂Cu₂NbO₈                         12                 2.86                  3.1             21
  PrSr₂Cu_(2.7)MoO₃O₇             not observed            3.05                  197             16
  PrBa₂Cu₃O₇                           17                 2.97               114, 118      4, this work
  PrBa₂(Cu_(0.96)Ga_(0.04))₃O₇         14                                       151         this work
  Ba₂(Cu_(0.92)Ga_(0.08))₃O₇           10                                       168         this work
  ------------------------------ -------------- ------------------------- --------------- --------------

Table 2: Antiferromagnetic transition temperature T_(N), effective
magnetic moment $\mu_{\rm eff}$, and linear term coefficient γ of
specific heat for selected Pr-based compounds.

Figure 3: Low-temperature (0.6≤T≤5 K) specific-heat data of
PrBa₂(Cu_(1 − x)Ga_(x))₃O_(7 − δ) (a) for x = 0, 0.04, and 0.08 with H =
0 and (b) for x = 0 with H = 0, 4, and 8 T. The solid lines represent
fits to the equation C = A/T² + γT + BT³.

PrBa₂(Cu_(1 − x)Ga_(x))₃O_(7 − δ) are presented and discussed. Several
features can be concluded from the present data. (1) A depression of
T_(N) with x is clearly shown by the specific-heat anomalies, even
though there is only a slope change in the χ-T curve. (2) The
specific-heat anomalies are broader than those in typical magnetic
transitions. However, both their magnitudes and the T_(N) values for
PrBa₂(Cu_(1 − x)Ga_(x))₃O_(7 − δ) are suppressed by magnetic field,
suggesting that the magnetic transition of this system is consistent
with conventional antiferromagnetic ordering. (3) The low-temperature
specific-heat data are slightly suppressed with magnetic field and the
derived γ values show an significant decrease in the magnetic field up
to 8 T. Therefore the large γ value in PrBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) may be
partially induced by the strong magnetic correlation. (4) The increase
of γ values with decrease of T_(N) in PrBa₂(Cu_(1 − x)Ga_(x))₃O_(7 − δ)
suggests that the origin of large γ values in these particular Pr-based
cuprates needs further clarification.

The authors would like to thank Professor W-H. Li, Professor C. C.
Huang, and Professor J. C. Ho for helpful discussion. This work was
supported by National Science Council of Republic of China under
Contract No. NSC84-2112-M110-005.

## References

* [1] L. Soderholm, K. Zhang, D. G. Hinks, M. A. Beno, J. D. Jorgensen,
C. U. Segre, and I. K. Schuller, Nature (London) **328**, 604 (1987). *
[2] A. Kebede, C. S. Jee, J. Schwegler, J. E. Crow, T. Mihalisin, G. H.
Myer, R. E. Salomon, P. Schlottmann, M. V. Kuric, S. H. Bloom, and R. P.
Guertin, Phys. Rev. B **40**, 4453 (1989). * [3] I. Felner, U. Yaron, I.
Nomik, E. R. Bauminger, Y. Walfus, E. R. Yocoby, G. Hilscher, and N.
Pillmayr, Phys. Rev. B **40**, 6739 (1989). * [4] W-H. Li, J. W. Lynn,
S. Skanthakumar, T. W. Clinton, A. Kebede, C. S. Jee, J. E. Crow, and T.
Mihalisin, Phys. Rev. B **40**, 5300 (1989). * [5] H. B. Radousky,
Mater. Res. Bull. **7**, 1917 (1992), and references quoted therein. *
[6] H. D. Yang, M. W. Lin, C. K. Chiou, and W. H. Lee, Phys. Rev. B
**46**, 1176 (1992). * [7] H. D. Yang and M. W. Lin, Phys. Rev. B
**44**, 5384 (1991). * [8] W-H. Li, K. J. Chang, W. T. Hsieh, K. C. Lee,
J. W. Lynn, and H. D. Yang, Phys. Rev. B **48**, 519 (1993). * [9] W-H.
Li, C. J. Jou, S. T. Shyr, K. C. Lee, J. W. Lynn, H. L. Tsay, and H. D.
Yang, J. Appl. Phys. **76**, 7136 (1994). * [10] S. H. Bloom, M. V.
Kuric, R. P. Guertin, C. S. Jee, D. Nichols, E. Kaczanowicz, J. E. Crow,
G. Myer, and R. E. Salomon, J. Magn. Magn. Mater. **68**, 1135 (1987). *
[11] N. E. Phillips, R. A. Fisher, R. Caspary, A. Amato, H. B. Radousky,
J. L. Peng, L. Zhang, and R. N. Shelton, Phys. Rev. B **43**, 11 488
(1991). * [12] Bachmann, F. J. Disalvo, T. H. Geballe, R. L. Greene, R.
E. Howard, C. N. King, H. C. Kirsch, K. N. Lee, R. E. Schwall, H. U.
Thomasand, and R. B. Zubeck, Rev. Sci. Instrum. **43**, 205 (1972). *
[13] C. Lin, Z. X. Liu, and J. Lan, Phys. Rev. B **42**, 2554 (1990). *
[14] Y. Yamaguchi and S. Waki, Jpn. J. Appl. Phys. **27**, L 1307
(1988). * [15] G. Xiao, M. X. Cieplak, A. Gavrin, T. H. Stratz, A.
Bakhshai, and C. L. Chien, Phys. Rev. Lett. **60**, 1446 (1988). * [16]
H. D. Yang, H. L. Tsay, C. R. Shih, and Y. C. Chen, Phys. Rev. B **51**,
8543 (1995). * [17] S. Ghamaty, B. W. Lee, J. J. Neumeier, G. Nieva, and
M. B. Maple, Phys. Rev. B **43**, 5430 (1991). * [18] G. Hilscher, N.
Pillmayr, R. Eibler, E. Bauer, K. Remschnig, and P. Rogl, Z. Phys. B
**72**, 461 (1988). * [19] G. R. Stewart, Rev. Mod. Phys. **56**, 755
(1984). * [20] Hundley, J. D. Thompson, S. W. Cheong, Z. Fisk, and S. B.
Oseroff, Physica C **158**, 102 (1989). * [21] I. Felner, U. Asaf, D.
Hechel, and T. Kroner, Physica C **214**, 169 (1993).
