# Pressure-induced reemergence of superconductivity in topological
insulator Sr0.065Bi2Se3

Yonghui Zhou,1,2 Xuliang Chen,1,2 Ranran Zhang,1 Jifeng Shao,1 Xuefei
Wang,1,2 Chao An,1,2 Ying Zhou,1,2 Changyong Park,3 Wei Tong,1 Li Pi,14
Zhaorong Yang,1,2,4 Changjin Zhang,1,4 Yuheng Zhang,1,4

2xfyang@issp.ac.cn High Magnetic Field Laboratory, Chinese Academy of
Sciences and University of Science and Technology of China, Hefei
230026, China

2Key Laboratory of Materials Physics, Institute of Solid State Physics,
Chinese Academy of Sciences, Hefei 230031, China

3High Pressure Collaborative Access Team, Geophysical Laboratory,
Carnegie Institution of Washington, Argonne, Illinois 60439, USA

4Collaborative Innovation Center of Advanced Microstructures, Nanjing
210093, China

###### Abstract

The recently discovered Sr2Bi2Se3 superconductor provides an alternative
and ideal material base for investigating possible topological
superconductivity. Here, we report that in Sr0.065Bi2Se3, the ambient
superconducting phase is gradually depressed upon the application of
external pressure. At high pressure, a second superconducting phase
emerges at above 6 GPa, with a maximum T_(c) value of ∼8.3 K. The joint
investigations of the high-pressure synchrotron x-ray diffraction and
electrical transport properties reveal that the reemergence of
superconductivity in Sr0.065Bi2Se3 is closely related to the structural
phase transition from an ambient hombohedral phase to a high-pressure
monoclinic phase around 6 GPa, and further to another high-pressure
tetragonal phase above 25 GPa.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.93.144514

## I Introduction

Topological insulators and topological superconductors are new states of
quantum matter which cannot be adiabatically connected to conventional
insulators and superconductors [1, 2, 3, 4]. Topological insulators are
characterized by a full insulating gap in the bulk and gapless edge or
surface states which are protected by time-reversal symmetry. In recent
years, topological insulating materials have been theoretically
predicted and experimentally observed in a variety of systems, including
HgTe quantum wells, BiSb alloys, and TlBiSe2 and Bi2Te3 (Bi2Se3, Sb2Te3)
single crystals [5, 6, 7].

The concept of topological insulators can also be applied to
superconductors, due to the direct analogy between topological band
theory and superconductivity. Of major interest in the field of
topological superconductivity is the realization of Majorana fermions,
which are predicted to exist as protected bound states in topological
superconductors [3]. In recent years, tremendous efforts have been made
in order to realize a real topological superconducting material [8, 9,
10, 11, 12, 13]. Among them, the Cu-intercalated Cu2Bi2Se3 has attracted
much attention, because large-size bulk superconducting single crystals
can be obtained. Various experimental works as well as theoretical
analyses have been done, in order to reveal the novel physical
properties in the Cu2Bi2Se3 system [14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20].
However, whether or not Cu2Bi2Se3 is a topological superconductor is
still controversial. Recently, we found that an alternative compound,
Sr2Bi2Se3, exhibits superconductivity with high superconducting volume
fraction [21]. The following investigations have revealed that the
atomic position of Sr in Sr2Bi2Se3 is completely different from that of
Cu in Cu2Bi2Se3. That is, the copper atoms are intercalated in the
weakly van der Waals bonded Se-Se layers, while most of the intercalated
strontium atoms are located in the Se-Bi-Se-Bi-Se quintuple layer [22].
Furthermore, the Sr2Bi2Se3 compounds exhibit a well-separated
topological surface state from the bulk bands [21, 22, 23, 24]. These
facts suggest that the Sr2Bi2Se3 compound exhibits interesting physical
phenomena and could serve as an important material base for the
investigation of topological-superconducting-related properties.

In this work, we perform a systematic study on the electronic transport
properties and the structural evolution of Sr0.065Bi2Se3 under high
pressure. We find that the ambient superconducting phase in
Sr0.065Bi2Se3 is gradually depressed with the application of pressure.
Noticeably, a pressure-induced superconducting phase emerges at high
pressure. It is found that the reemergence of superconductivity and the
structural phase transition in Sr0.065Bi2Se3 are quite comparable with
the high-pressure-induced superconductivity in the Bi2Se3 pristine
topological insulator, despite of the fact that Sr0.065Bi2Se3 is a
superconductor at ambient pressure.

## II Experiment

Single crystals of Sr0.065Bi2Se3 with typical dimensions of 3 × 3 × 0.5
mm3 used in this work have been reported previously [21]. High-pressure
resistance measurements were conducted in a screw-pressure-type diamond
anvil cell (DAC). Diamond anvils of 200 μm culets and a T301
stainless-steel gasket covered with a mixture of epoxy and fine cubic
boron nitride (c-BN) powder were used for high-pressure transport
measurements. The four-probe method was applied in the ab plane of
single crystals with typical dimensions of 90 × 40 × 10μm3. The
magnetoresistance experiments under high pressure were performed on the
Cell5 Water-Cooling Magnet of the High Magnetic Field Laboratory of the
Chinese Academy of Sciences. The measurements were done using a
field-sweeping method at fixed temperature. The maximum magnetic field
was 33 T. High-pressure synchrotron radiation x-ray diffraction
measurements were performed at 16BMD [25], HPCAT, Advanced Photon
Source, Argonne National Laboratory. The as-grown single crystals were
ground into fine powder for the x-ray diffraction experiments with a
wavelength of 0.4246 A. A rhenium gasket was preindented with a
thickness of 40 μm. Then a 120 micrometer hole was drilled by the laser
micromachining system at HPCAT [26], which served as a sample chamber. A
prepressed powder sheet with a typical size of 30 μm x 30 μm x 15 μm was
loaded into the chamber together with a ruby ball and silicone oil
served as a pressure marker and pressure transmitting medium,
respectively. A two-dimensional area detector Mar345 was used to collect
the powder diffraction patterns. The dioptas[27] and rietica[28]
programs were employed for the image integrations and the XRD profile
refinements, respectively. The Le Bail method was used to extract the
lattice parameters. The pressure in the cell was measured at room
temperature with an offline ruby system at HPCAT.

## III Results and Discussion

Figure 1(a) gives the evolution of resistivity as a function of
temperature for the Sr0.065Bi2Se3 sample at relatively low pressure
(P ≤ 3 GPa). Two distinct features can be found in this pressure region.
One is that the normal state resistivity increases with increasing
pressure. The other is that the superconductivity is gradually
depressed. If we compare the response of superconductivity of
Sr0.065Bi2Se3 with that of Cu0.3Bi2Se3[29], we find that the depression
of superconductivity in the Sr0.065Bi2Se3 sample is much faster than
that in Cu0.3Bi2Se3. The depression of superconductivity in
Sr0.065Bi2Se3 can be qualitatively explained according to a simple model
for a low carrier density superconductor where
T_(c) ∼ Θ_(D)exp[−1/N(0)V₀], with Θ_(D) the Debye temperature,
N(0) ∼ m^(*)n^(1/3) the density of states (with m^(*) the effective
mass), and V₀ the effective interaction parameter [29]. In
Sr0.065Bi2Se3, the reduction of charge carrier density n under pressure
is apparent: The temperature dependence of resistivity gradually loses
its metallic character with increasing pressure and the ρ(300 K) value
exhibits an increase by a factor of >2 when the applied pressure is
increased from 0.3 GPa to 2.7 GPa.

Figure 1(b) shows the temperature dependence of resistivity for the
Sr0.065Bi2Se3 sample with 2.7 GPa  ≤ P ≤ 40 GPa. It is interesting to
notice that the normal state resistivity again exhibits a metallic-like
feature, indicating an increase of charge carrier density at high
pressure. The normal state resistivity decreases continuously with
increasing pressure, suggesting a successive increase of charge carrier
density at the high-pressure region. A striking phenomenon is that the
Sr0.065Bi2Se3 sample exhibits a reemergent superconductivity when P ≥ 6
GPa. It should be mentioned that this reemergent superconductivity has
not been observed in Cu_(x)Bi2Se3 compounds. In order to see the
reemergent superconductivity more clearly, we plot in Fig. 1(c) an
enlarged view near the transition temperature. The T_(c)^(onset) value
at 6.0 GPa is about 3.6 K. And the T_(c)^(onset) slightly decreases with
increasing pressure when 6 GPa  ≤ P ≤ 11.5 GPa. However, when P ≥ 14
GPa, the T_(c)^(onset) value is drastically increased, reaching a
maximum of ∼8.3 K. With further increasing pressure, the T_(c)^(onset)
is slightly decreased. Nevertheless, the reemergent superconductivity of
Sr0.065Bi2Se3 is quite robust under high pressure. The superconductivity
occurs even at the highest achieved pressure of 80 GPa [Fig. 1(d)]. We
also notice that in iron chalcogenide superconductors, such as
Tb0.6Rb0.4Fe1.67Se2, K0.8Fe1.7Se2,

Figure 1: (a) Temperature-dependent ab-plane resistance for
Sr0.065Bi2Se3 at low-pressure region. (b) Temperature-dependent ab-plane
resistance for Sr0.065Bi2Se3 at high-pressure region. (c) An enlarged
view of the reemergent superconductivity near the transition temperature
(run 1). (d) The temperature dependence of resistance for the
Sr0.065Bi2Se3 at run 2, reaching a maximum pressure of 80 GPa.

and K0.8Fe1.78Se2, the reemergent superconductivity with higher
transition temperature has been reported [30]. However, in iron
chalcogenides, the reemergent superconductivity occurs in a much
narrower pressure range compared to the present case.

In order to tentatively estimate the nature of the reemergent
superconductivity, we analyze the evolution of the upper critical field
H_(c2)(T) at low temperature. Figure 2(a) shows the response of the
reemergent superconductivity on external magnetic field. The applied
pressure is fixed at 19.5 GPa. It

Figure 3: (a) Synchrotron radiation x-ray diffraction patterns at
various applied pressures. For clarity, the backgrounds have been
subtracted by using the diofrás program. (b) The refined lattice
parameters a (squares), b (diamonds), and c (circles) as a function of
pressure. Three structural phases, i.e., R-3m, C2/m, I4/mnum, with two
overlap pressure regions are revealed upon compression.

Figure 2: (a) Temperature dependence of resistance under different
magnetic fields up to 5.0 T. The applied pressure is fixed at 19.5 GPa.
(b) Temperature dependence of the reduced upper critical field h^(*)
(the red circles) and the fittings according to a p-wave polar state and
the *-wave clean limit, respectively. The T_(c) at specific magnetic
field is determined as a 90

is found that the superconducting transition temperature is
monotonically decreased with increasing magnetic field. One striking
feature is that both with and without magnetic field, the
superconducting transition is rather sharp, meaning the occurrence of
bulk and homogeneous superconductivity. It can be also found that the
ρ-T curves are almost parallel to each other, suggesting that the flux
creep effects can be completely ignored in the vortex dynamics of the
reemergent superconductivity. Figure 2(b) plots the dependence of the
reduced critical field,
h^(*)(T) = [H_(c2)(T)/T_(c)]/[dH_(c2)(T)/dT]|_(T = T_(c)), on the
normalized temperature t = T/T_(c). Here the H_(c2)(T) value is defined
from the resistance criterion of R_(cri) = 90%R_(n) (R_(n) is the normal
state resistance). The experimental data are compared to models for
orbitally limited s-wave and spin-triplet p-wave superconductors. It can
be seen that the experimental h^(*)(T) deviates significantly from the
expected orbital-limited behavior predicted by the
Werthamer-Helfand-Hohenberg (WHH) theory for an s-wave superconductor
[h^(*)(0) ≃ 0.72] [31]. Noticeably, the h^(*)(T) data are very close to
the h^(*)(T) ∼ t curve expected from a p-wave superconductor
[h^(*)(0) ≃ 0.85] [32]. We also note that a better fitting of the
h^(*)(T) data to a p-wave model rather than an s-wave model has been
reported in pressure-induced superconductivity in the Bi₂Se₃ compound
[33], pointing to unconventional superconductivity in the Sr_(x)Bi₂Se₃
system.

It is instructive to investigate the structural symmetry at high
pressure. Thus we conduct the high-pressure synchrotron x-ray
diffraction (XRD) study on the Sr_(0.065)Bi₂Se₃ sample up to 41.1 GPa.
In Fig. 3, the powder diffraction patterns and the lattice parameters
under high pressure are presented in detail. Selected XRD profile
refinements are also shown in Fig. 3. It is found that the ambient
rhombohedral phase (_R_-_3_m_) can remain in a single phase only when
P ≤ 5.7 GPa, above which a monoclinic phase (C2/m) is involved and
coexists with the rhombohedral one. The low-pressure _R_-_3m phase
disappears completely at 16.6 GPa and the C2/m phase persists up to 31.6
GPa. In the pressure range of 25.0-31.6 GPa, a mixture of the C2/m phase
and the high-pressure body-centered tetragonal phase (I4/mmm) shows up.
Upon further compression beyond 31.6 GPa, the I4/mmm phase can be
sustained alone up to the highest pressure achieved in the present
experiment.

To obtain a comprehensive understanding of the pressure-driven
superconducting behavior, we show the isothermal equations of state for
the respective phases in Fig. 4. The isothermal equations of state are
fitted by the third-order Birch-Murnaghan formula [34] as indicated by
the red solid lines in Fig. 4(a). With B₀^(′) fixed as 4, the isothermal
bulk modulus B₀ is estimated to be  ∼ 58(1), 85(1), and 116(2) GPa for
the _R_-_3m, C2/m, and I4/mmm phases, respectively. It is found that at
the two progressive structural transition points (R-3m → C2/m → I4/mmm),
the unit-cell volume per chemical formula (Sr_(0.065)Bi₂Se₃) shrinks by
about 4.8

## IV Conclusion

In conclusion, a pressure-induced reemergent superconductivity has been
revealed in the Sr_(x)Bi₂Se₃ superconducting topological insulator. The
resulting phase diagrams exhibit

Figure 4: (a) The compression data (V versus P) were fitted by the
third-order Birch-Murnaghan equation of state (solid red line), which
yields the bulk modulus 58(1), 85(1), 116(2) GPa for the _R_-_3m, C2/m,
and I4/mmm phases, respectively. (b) The pristine superconducting phase,
SC-I, occurs in the ambient rhombohedral (_R_-_3_m_) phase. The
reemergent superconducting phase, SC-II, occurs in the monoclinic (C2/m)
phase and in the tetragonal I4/mmm phase.

similar features to those of the high-pressure response of the Bi₂Se₃
pristine topological insulator, including the role of structural
transitions and the presence of unconventional superconductivity. The
analysis on the pressure-invariant T_(c) suggests the unconventional
nature of the superconductivity in Sr_(x)Bi₂Se₃, which deserves further
investigation.

###### Acknowledgements.

This work was supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of
China (Grants No. U1532267, No. U1332143, and No. 11574323). A portion
of this work was performed on the WM5 magnet of the High Magnetic Field
Laboratory, Chinese Academy of Sciences. Portions of this work were
performed at HPCAT (Sector 16), Advanced Photon Source (APS), Argonne
National Laboratory (ANL). HPCAT operations are supported by DOE-NNSA
under Award No. DE-NA0001974 and DOE-BES under Award No.
DE-FG02-99ER45775, with partial instrumentation funding by NSF. APS is
supported by DOE-BES, under Contract No. DE-AC02-06CH11357. Y. H. Zhou
and X. L. Chen contributed equally to this work.

## References

* [1] C. L. Kane and E. J. Mele, Phys. Rev. Lett. **95**, 146802
(2005). * [2] B. A. Bernevig, T. L. Hughes, and S. C. Zhang, Science
**314**, 1757 (2006). * [3] L. Fu and C. L. Kane, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**100**, 096407 (2008). * [4] X. L. Qi and S. C. Zhang, Rev. Mod. Phys.
**83**, 1057 (2011). * [5] M. Konig, S. Wiedmann, C. Brune, A. Roth, H.
Buhmann, L. W. Molenkamp, X.-L. Qi, and S.-C. Zhang, Science **318**,
766 (2007). * [6] D. Hsieh, D. Qian, L. Wray, Y. Xia, Y. S. Hor, R. J.
Cava, and M. Z. Hasan, Nature (London) **452**, 970 (2008). * [7] H. J.
Zhang, C.-X. Liu, X.-L. Qi, X. Dai, Z. Fang, and S.-C. Zhang, Nat. Phys.
**5**, 438 (2009). * [8] Y. S. Hor, A. J. Williams, J. G. Checkelsky, P.
Roushan, J. Seo, Q. Xu, H. W. Zandbergen, A. Yazdani, N. P. Ong, and R.
J. Cava, Phys. Rev. Lett. **104**, 057001 (2010). * [9] M. Kriener, K.
Segawa, Z. Ren, S. Sasaki, and Y. Ando, Phys. Rev. Lett. **106**, 127004
(2011). * [10] J. L. Zhang, S. J. Zhang, H. M. Weng, W. Zhang, L. X.
Yang, Q. Q. Liu, S. M. Feng, X. C. Wang, R. C. Yu, L. Z. Cao, L. Wang,
W. G. Yang, H. Z. Liu, W. Y. Zhao, S. C. Zhang, X. Dai, Z. Fang, and C.
Q. Jin, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA **108**, 24 (2011). * [11] M. X.
Wang, C. H. Liu, J.-P. Xu, F. Yang, L. Miao, M.-Y. Yao, C. L. Gao, C. Y.
Shen, X. C. Ma, X. Chen, Z.-A. Xu, Y. Liu, S.-C. Zhang, D. Qian, J.-F.
Jia, and Q.-K. Xue, Science **336**, 52 (2012). * [12] P. Zareapour, A.
Hayat, S. Y. F. Zhao, M. Kreshchuk, A. Jain, D. C. Kwok, N. Lee, S.-W.
Cheong, Z. Xu, A. Yang, G. D. Gu, S. Jia, R. J. Cava, and K. S. Burch,
Nat. Commun. **3**, 1056 (2012). * [13] J. P. Xu, C. Liu, M.-X. Wang, J.
Ge, Z.-L. Liu, X. Yang, Y. Chen, Y. Liu, Z.-A. Xu, C.-L. Gao, D. Qian,
F.-C. Zhang, and J.-F. Jia, Phys. Rev. Lett. **112**, 217001 (2014). *
[14] L. Fu and E. Berg, Phys. Rev. Lett. **105**, 097001 (2010). * [15]
L. A. Wray, S.-Y. Xu, Y. Xia, Y. S. Hor, D. Qian, A. V. Fedorov, H. Lin,
A. Bansil, R. J. Cava, and M. Z. Hasan, Nat. Phys. **6**, 855 (2010). *
[16] S. Sasaki, M. Kriener, K. Segawa, K. Yada, Y. Tanaka, M. Sato, and
Y. Ando, Phys. Rev. Lett. **107**, 217001 (2011). * [17] B. J. Lawson,
Y. S. Hor, and L. Li, Phys. Rev. Lett. **109**, 226406 (2012). * [18] T.
H. Hsieh and L. Fu, Phys. Rev. Lett. **108**, 107005 (2012). * [19] N.
Levy, T. Zhang, J. Ha, F. Sharifi, A. A.Talin, Y. Kuk, and J. A.
Stroscio, Phys. Rev. Lett. **110**, 117001 (2013). * [20] X. Wan and S.
Y. Savrasov, Nat. Commun. **5**, 4144 (2014). * [21] Z. Liu, X. Yao, J.
Shao, M. Zuo, L. Pi, S. Tan, C. Zhang, and Y. Zhang, J. Am. Chem. Soc.
**137**, 10512 (2015). * [22] C. Q. Han, H. Li, W. J. Chen, F. Zhu,
M.-Y. Yao, Z. J. Li, M. Wang, B. F. Gao, D. D. Guan, C. Liu, C. L. Gao,
D. Qian, and J.-F. Jia, Appl. Phys. Lett. **107**, 171602 (2015). * [23]
Shruti, V. K. Maurya, P. Neha, P. Srivastava, and S. Patnaik, Phys. Rev.
B **92**, 020506(R) (2015). * [24] M. Neupane, Y. Ishida, R. Sankar,
J.-X. Zhu, D. S. Sanchez, I. Belopolski, S.-Y. Xu, N. Alidoust, M. M.
Hosen, S. Shin, F. Chou, M. Zahid Hasan, and T. Durakiewicz, Sci. Rep.
**6**, 22557 (2016). * [25] C. Park, D. Popov, D. Ikuta, C. L. Lin, C.
Kenney-Benson, E. Rod, A. Bommannavar, and G. Y. Shen, Rev. Sci.
Instrum. **86**, 072205 (2015). * [26] R. Hrubiak, S. Sinogeikin, E.
Rod, and G. Shen, Rev. Sci. Instrum. **86**, 072202 (2015). * [27] C.
Prescher and V. B. Prakapenka, High Press. Res. **35**, 223 (2015). *
[28] B. A. Hunter, Rietica–A Visual Rietveld Program, International
Union of Crystallography Commission on Powder Diffraction Newsletter No.
20 (Summer 1998), http://www.rietica.org. * [29] T. V. Bay, T. Naka, Y.
K. Huang, H. Luiggies, M. S. Golden, and A. de Visser, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**108**, 057001 (2012). * [30] L. L. Sun, X.-J. Chen, J. Guo, P. Gao,
Q.-Z. Huang, H. Wang, M. Fang, X. L. Chen, G. Chen, Q. Wu, C. Zhang, D.
Gu, X. Dong, L. Wang, K. Yang, A. Li, X. Dai, H.-K. Mao, and Z. X. Zhao,
Nature (London) **483**, 67 (2012). * [31] N. R. Werthamer, E. Helfand,
and P. C. Hohenberg, Phys. Rev. **147**, 295 (1966). * [32] K.
Scharnberg and R. A. Klemm, Phys. Rev. B **22**, 5233 (1980). * [33] K.
Kirshenbaum, P. S. Syers, A. P. Hope, N. P. Butch, J. R. Jeffries, S. T.
Weir, J. J. Hamlin, M. B. Maple, Y. K. Vohra, and J. Paglione, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **111**, 087001 (2013). * [34] F. Birch, Phys. Rev. **71**,
809 (1947). * [35] R. Vilaplana, D. Santamaria-Perez, O. Gomis, F. J.
Manjon, J. Gonzalez, A. Segura, A. Munoz, P. Rodriguez-Hernandez, E.
Perez-Gonzalez, V. Marin-Borras, V. Munoz-Sanjose, C. Drasar, and V.
Kucek, Phys. Rev. B **84**, 184110 (2011).
