# Identical superconducting gap on different Fermi surfaces of
Ca(Al0.Si0.5)2 with the AlB2 structure

S. Tsuda,¹ T. Yokoya,¹ S. Shin,^(1, 2) M. Imai,³ and I. Hase⁴

¹Institute for Solid State Physics, University of Tokyo, 5-1-5
Kashiwa-no-ha, Kashiwa, Chiba 277-8581, Japan

²The Institute of Physics and Chemical Research (RIKEN), 1-1-1 Kouto,
Mikazukichou, Sayo-gun, Hyogo 660-0891, Japan

³National Institute for Material Science, 1-2-1 Songem, Tsukuba, Ibaraki
305-0047, Japan

⁴Nanoelectronics Research Institute, National Institute of Advanced
Industrial Science and Technology, 1-1-4 Umezono, Tsukuba, Ibaraki
305-8568, Japan

###### Abstract

Angle-resolved photoemission spectroscopy of Ca(Al0.5Si0.5)2 (CaAlSi),
which is a superconductor (transition temperature is 7.7 K) with the
AlB2 structure, revealed that superconducting gaps on two Fermi surfaces
(FSs) with three-dimensional character around Γ(A) and M(L) in the
Brillouin zone provide essentially the same superconducting gap value (∼
1.2 meV± 0.2 meV). This is in contrast to the case of MgB2, in which
different FSs exhibit different gap values. The reduced gap value
2Δ(0)/k_(B)T_(c) of ∼4.2± 0.2 classifies CaAlSi as a moderately
strong-coupling superconductor.

2004 10.1103/PhysRevB.69.100506

After the discovery of an unexpectedly high-temperature
superconductivity in MgB2,1 intensive studies of MgB2, as well as
related compounds, have been performed to understand the mechanism of
its superconductivity.2 From the magnitude and symmetry of the
superconducting (SC) gap, which are closely related to the strength and
origin of the driving force of the Cooper pair, respectively, evidence
for an unusual SC gap and not a simple isotropic _s_-wave gap have been
concluded.2 The unusual gap has been explained in terms of a multiple
gap scenario,3 which predicts two gaps with different magnitudes
originating in two Fermi-surface (FS) sheets with different symmetry.
Although the relationship between the gaps and the character of FSs has
been addressed using tunneling spectroscopy4 and Raman spectroscopy,5
more recently, direct evidence for an unusual SC gap has been provided
by angle-resolved photoemission spectroscopy (ARPES).6,7 ARPES has the
capability of detecting momentum (_k_)-resolved electronic structures
and, hence, could confirm k dependence of a SC gap in MgB2. These ARPES
studies have clarified a larger gap on the two-dimensional (2D) FS sheet
derived from the σ orbital and a smaller gap on the three-dimensional
(3D) FS derived from the π orbital, showing two-band superconductivity
as an origin for both the unusual SC gap and the high transition
temperature (T_(c)). In comparison, ARPES studies of the SC gap in
related compounds which possess the same structure have not been
reported so far, since superconductivity of the compounds with the AlB2
structure has not been reliably obtained and/or the T_(c) is too low to
be accessed by ARPES measurements due to instrumental limitations of
sample cooling. This may leave a question whether such an unusual SC gap
is a characteristic of MgB2.

Footnote 1: Present address: Department of Physics, University of
Wisconsin, Madison, WI, 53706, USA

Ca(Al0.5Si0.5)2 (CaAlSi) is isostructural with MgB2 and shows
superconductivity below 7.7 K,8 which is, to our knowledge, the highest
T_(c) in ternary compounds having the AlB2 structure. Furthermore,
band-structure calculations10 have predicted that CaAlSi has two FS
sheets, both of which have 3D character. This is in contrast to MgB2,
which exhibits two types of FS sheets, consisting of a 2D σ-derived FS
and a π-derived 3D FS. Since, in MgB2, the SC gap values depend on the
characters of the FS sheets, in the comparison between CaAlSi and MgB2
it is interesting to see the peculiarity of the electronic structure of
MgB2.

In this paper we report on the ARPES results on the band dispersion and
the FS dependence of the SC gap of CaAlSi. The valence-band ARPES study
of CaAlSi shows fairly good agreement with band-structure calculations,
except for one band that can be ascribed to a surface-state band. The SC
gaps on different FS sheets, both with 3D character, are found to be
nearly of the same magnitude of ∼ 1.2 meV ± 0.2 meV, resulting in a
reduced gap value of ∼ 4.2± 0.2. This is, to our knowledge, the first
data reporting a FS sheet-dependent measurement of the SC gap of MgB2
related compounds. This result provides important insights to the role
of the character of the FS for the superconducting properties of
AlB2-type compounds.

The CaAlSi single crystals were synthesized by a floating-zone method.
The details were described in Ref. [11]. X-ray diffraction measurements
confirmed that our CaAlSi single crystals have the AlB2 crystal
structure with lattice constants a = 4.19002(3) A and c = 4.3978(6) A,
as reported earlier.8,11 Sample orientations were identified by Laue
backscattering measurements performed _ex situ_ and further confirmed by
the symmetry of ARPES spectra. All the ARPES spectra were obtained with
a high-resolution hemispherical analyzer using monochromatic He
resonance lines [He Iα (21.218 eV) and He IIα (40.814 eV)]. ARPES
valence-band spectra were taken with a ∼ 30 meV energy resolution and
ultrahigh-resolution spectra for SC gaps were taken with a 3.1 meV
resolution. The instrumental angular resolution was set to ± 0.2^(∘).
The samples were cleaved and measured _in situ_ under an ultrahigh
vacuum condition with a base pressure better than 5×10⁻¹¹ Torr. The
binding energy (BE) and the energy resolution of each spectrum were
calibrated with the Fermi edge of a gold film evaporated onto a copper
substrate near the samples. The accuracy of the Fermi energy (E_(F)) is
better than 5 meV for valence-band measurements and 0.2 meV for SC gap
measurements.

We also calculated the band structure of CaAlSi with the standard
full-potential augmented plane-wave (FLAPW) method, in order to identify
the character and dimensionality of each FS sheet observed
experimentally. We have carried out this calculation by using the
computer code kANSAI-94 and tspace.12 For the exchange-correlation
potential we adopted the local-density approximation (LDA), according to
Gunnarson and Lundqvist.13 The calculation of the core states and the
valence states are self-consistently carried out by the
scalar-relativistic scheme.14 We used the experimentally known lattice
constants and space group.8,11 The muffin-tin radius of each atom is
0.38a for Ca, 0.23a for Al and Si. The basis functions with the wave
vector |k + G|<_K_max${}_{\rm max}$=3.6(2π/_a_), where k is a wave
vector in the Brillouin zone (BZ) and G is a reciprocal-lattice vector,
resulting in about 270 basis linear augmented plane waves (LAPWs).

Figure 1 shows ARPES spectra from a CaAlSi(0001) cleaved surface
measured along the (a) Γ(A)-_M_(_L_) and (b) Γ(A)-_K_(_H_)-_M_(_L_) high
symmetry directions in the BZ with the He II_a_ resonance line. Here, we
only discuss the overall valence-band dispersions with He II_a_, because
the background coming from secondary electrons is much lower and the
accessible BE and reciprocal space are much wider in He II_a_ than in He
I_a_. In Fig. 1, ARPES spectra have several peaks whose intensity and
energy position systematically change as a function of the measured k.
As for the structure near _E__(F), one can see an intense peak structure
around _M_(_L_), which appears to form an electron pocket. To make the
band dispersions more visible, we took a second derivative of the raw
spectra shown in Fig. 1 and plotted the intensity as a function of BE
and k, as shown in Fig. 2. Higher intensity regions plotted with yellow
(and red for much higher intensity region) correspond to electronic
bands. We observed several dispersive bands within 6 eV of _E__(F)
having the same periodicity as that of the bulk BZ, especially for the
Γ(A)-_K_(_H_)-_M_(_L_) line. Near _E__(F), besides the highest intensity
region around the _M_(_L_) point that is evident from the raw data, we
also find that higher intensity regions exist around the Γ(A) point and
at halfway of both, Γ(A)-_K_(_H_) and Γ(A)-_M_(_L_). We also observe two
higher intensity re

Figure 3: (Color) (a) The FS map of CaAlSi. Each blue curve shows
calculated FSs on different _k__(z) planes (see text). (b) The intensity
map of CaAlSi along the line (_C_) of (a) corresponding to the Γ-_M_
line.

Figure 2: (Color) The second-derivative valence-band intensity map of
CaAlSi along the Γ(A)-_M_(_L_) and Γ(A)-_K_(_H_)-_M_(_L_) directions.
The higher intensity regions correspond to the bands. The curves show
the calculated band dispersions with the FLAPW method; the black and red
curves represent the dispersion on _k__(z)=0 and π/_c_ planes in the BZ,
respectively.

gions near E_(F) around the Γ(A) and M(L) points along Γ(A)-M(L), which
suggest the existence of electronlike FS sheets. This is consistent with
the Hall coefficient measurements reporting that the dominant carriers
in CaAlSi are electrons.[11]

The black and red curves superimposed in Fig. 2d correspond to the
calculated band dispersions as a function of BE and k on the k_(z) = 0
and π/c planes, respectively. The calculated energy-band structure is in
good agreement with the previous report.[10] The characters of selected
bands are indicated at the right side of the figure with "σ" and "π."
The σ bands are composed mainly of the 3s, 3p_(x), and 3p_(y), electrons
of Al and Si, while the π bands are composed mainly of 3p_(z) electrons
of Al and Si. The rest of the bands originate from highly hybridized 3D
electronic states of Ca, Al, and Si. The calculated band dispersions for
the σ and π bands located from 1.5 to 6.0 eV appear very similar to the
experimental dispersions, though a larger deviation is observed for the
π band from k_(z) = 0 plane around the Γ point.[15] Simultaneous
observation of two bands from k_(z) = 0 and π/c may be due to k_(z)
broadening, which originates from a smaller escape depth of
photoelectrons due to a band gap in the final state or due to the photon
energy used (He IIα).[16] We can also find that the observed features
near E_(F) have a similarity to the calculated band dispersions. The
electron pocketlike structure at M(L) corresponds to the 3D band at
k_(z) = 0, though the energy position of the calculated-band bottom has
higher BE compared with the experimental-band bottom. This shift of the
band bottom may be caused by a narrowing of the bandwidth in
consideration with the observation of another electron pocketlike
structure at Γ(A), which can also be related to the 3D band at
k_(z) = 0. The features located halfway along Γ(A)-M(L) and Γ(A)-K(H)
can be assigned to the 3D band at k_(z) = π/c. Thus we can assign the
band dispersions near E_(F) to the 3D bands from different k_(z) planes.
An important finding from the valence-band study is that CaAlSi has 3D
FS sheets only. We found that another band around 1 eV, indicated with
an asterisk, cannot be assigned to any calculated bands. We attribute
this ⋆ band to a surface state, as we found that structure degraded very
rapidly when the air was introduced into the measurement chamber. A
similar surface state band around Γ(A) was also reported in MgB₂.[17]

Next, we discuss the electronic structure near E_(F) with the data
obtained with the He Iα resonance line, because higher intensity of He
Iα makes it possible to study band structures near E_(F) in more detail.
It is also possible to measure the SC gap with the higher resolution, as
compared with He IIα. In Fig. 3 we plotted spectral intensities around
E_(F) with a 40 meV energy window over the BZ (the thick hexagon
indicates the first BZ). Higher intensity regions plotted with yellow
(and red for much higher intensity region) correspond to FSs. Figure
3(b) is the spectral intensity map as a function of BE and k along the
thin broken line (C) of Fig. 3(a). We used different color scales in
Figs. 3(a) and 3(b) to emphasize the FSs and the bands. In Fig. 3(b),
the two electron pocketlike structures around Γ(A) and M(L) are more
clearly seen than in Fig. 1 or 2. This is most probably due to higher
signal-to-noise ratio and the longer escape depth of photoelectrons
using He Iα compared to He IIα, leading to better identification of
k_(z) values. In Fig. 3(a) these structures form a hexagonal-like and an
elliptical intensity distribution around Γ(A) and M(L), respectively. As
mentioned above, both FSs are 3D, hence we compared with the calculated
FSs at different k_(z) planes in Fig. 3(a) by blue curves, where the
solid, dotted, and broken curves correspond to the intersections of two
FSs (one is a pancakelike FS around Γ and the other is a sixfolded
gearlike FS centered at Γ that has six ellipsoidal holes around M along
k_(z)) on k_(z) = 0, π/2c, and π/c, respectively. As seen in Fig. 3(a),
the two FSs observed with He Iα show good correspondence to FS sheets at
k_(z) = 0. The negligible intensity around the midpoints along Γ(A)-M(L)
and Γ(A)-K(L), which are observed using He Iα, suggests that we
dominantly detected electronic structures near E_(F) from k_(z) ∼ 0
using He Iα.

Figure 4 shows ultrahigh-resolution (3.1 meV) temperature-dependent
spectra in the vicinity of E_(F) measured on the gearlike sheet along
line (A) in Fig. 3 and the pancake-like FS sheet along line (B) are
shown in Fig. 4. To compensate the low count rate owing to the higher
resolution used, the spectra shown in Fig. 4 are the sum of ARPES
spectra along the two lines, representing a nearly one-dimensional
density of states. This allows us to do a Dynes function analysis
(below), which was originally used for describing the superconducting
density of states. The open and filled circles represent the
experimental results measured at 5.4 K (normal) and 10 K (SC),
respectively. Below T_(c) of 7.7 K, we observe a midpoint shift of the
leading edge and a quasiparticle peak around 4 meV BE, indicative of
opening of the SC gap for both FS sheets. To estimate the magnitude of
the SC gaps (Δ), we fit the data with the Dynes function,[18] including
a broadening parameter Γ.[19] A Dynes function was first multiplied with
a Fermi-Dirac function of the measured temperature and then convoluted
with a Gaussian with a full width at half maximum (FWHM) equal to the
experimental resolution.[20] We determine Δ’s and Γ’s so that the
observed spectra can be well reproduced with the calculated spectra as
seen for the peak and the leading edge regions. The solid curves in Fig.
4 are the fitting results. The Δ values for the FS around Γ(A) and M(L)
are 1.1 and 1.2 meV, respectively, which indicates that the SC gaps are
of the same magnitude within the accuracy of the fitting process
zx < (± 0.2 meV).[21] We estimated the gap values at 0 K from

Figure 4: Temperature-dependent ultrahigh-resolution spectra of CaAlSi
measured on the FS sheets at the M(L) and Γ(A) points. The open and
filled circles show the experimental spectra of the normal and the SC
states, respectively (see text).

the known temperature dependence of the SC gap [22] and obtained 1.4 ±
0.1 meV. The reduced gap value 2 Δ(_T_ = 0 K)/_kBT_c is 4.2 ± 0.2, which
is larger than the BCS value of 3.52, classifying CaAlSi as a moderately
strong-coupling superconductor. As for the T, we needed a relatively
large value (0.6 meV) compared to Δ. One possible reason for that is an
anisotropy in the k, direction, consistent with magnetization
measurements. [11; 23] On the other hand, the chance that an in-plane
gap anisotropy can be eliminated from magnetization measurements [11;
23] is reported when the in-plane anisotropy is negligible.

Thus, the present results in CaAlSi are in sharp contrast to the
multiple gaps observed in MgB₂. In MgB₂, the two gaps with different
magnitude open on the two FS sheets with very different characters (2D σ
band and 3D π band). On the other hand, in CaAlSi, we observed identical
gap value on different FS sheets with the same character (highly
hybridized 3D electronic states of Ca, Al, and Si). Moreover, the
reduced gap of 4.2 in CaAlSi is slightly larger than that for the larger
gap in MgB₂ [3.56 (Ref. [6]), 3.54 (Ref. [24])], suggesting that strong
coupling is not required for explaining the T of MgB₂. Thus SC gap
measurements on the different FS sheets of CaAlSi contrast the
characteristic superconducting electronic structure of MgB₂ originating
from the coexistence of FS sheets with different dimensionality.
First-principle calculations [3] showed that, in MgB₂, the 2D FSs, or 2D
bands can selectively couple to the high-frequency 2D phonon mode
through _k_-dependent electron-phonon coupling. Thus MgB₂ is different
from superconductors where _k_-dependent electron-phonon coupling does
not play a major role, as in CaAlSi. [10]

In summary, we have performed ARPES of CaAlSi, which is a superconductor
(_T__(c) = 7.7 K) with the AlB₂ structure. The experimental valence
bands agree fairly well with the calculated results, except for a band
that can be ascribed to a surface state. Measurements of the
superconducting gap on the two different electron pockets around Γ(_A_)
and _M_(_L_) in the BZ provide essentially the same superconducting gap
value (∼ 1.2 meV ± 0.2 meV), corresponding to the reduced gap value 2
Δ(0)/_kBT_c of ∼4.
