# Superconductivity and magnetism in platinum-substituted SrFe₂As₂
single crystals

Kevin Kirshenbaum, Shanta R. Saha, Tyler Drye, and Johnpierre Paglione

Center for Nanophysics and Advanced Materials, Department of Physics,
University of Maryland, College Park, Maryland 20742, USA

Received 5 August 2010; revised manuscript received 27 September 2010;
published 18 October 2010

###### Abstract

Single crystals of SrFe_(2 − x)Pt_(x)As₂ (0.5 ± 0.36) were grown using
the self-flux solution method and characterized using x-ray
crystallography, electrical transport, magnetic susceptibility, and
specific heat measurements. The magnetic/structural transition is
suppressed with increasing Pt concentration, with superconductivity seen
over the range 0.08 ≤ x ≤ 0.36 with a maximum transition temperature
T_(c) of 16 K at x =0.16. The shape of the phase diagram and the changes
to the lattice parameters are similar to the effects of other group VIII
elements Ni and Pd, however the higher transition temperature and
extended range of superconductivity suggest some complexity beyond the
simple electron counting picture that has been discussed thus far.

pacs: DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.82.144518 [ ]

PACS number(s): 74.25.Dw, 74.25.F-, 74.62.Dh, 74.70.Xa

## I Introduction

The discovery of superconductivity in iron-based compounds has led to a
renewed interest in the field of superconducting materials research. [1]
This distinct class of superconductors offers a distinct perspective
from which the phenomenon of superconductivity can be studied. [2] The
similarities between the phase diagrams of these systems, as well as
their likeness to those found in cuprate and heavy-fermion systems, [3]
makes the study of these phase diagrams not only interesting in the
context of pnictide superconductors but even more generally to the study
of unconventional superconductivity.

The family of iron-based superconductors is now quite large. After the
initial discovery of superconductivity in LaFeAsO_(1 − x)F_(x) there
have been several other classes discovered, colloquially named after the
stoichiometry of the parent compounds, such as "111" for LiFeAs, [4]
"11" for FeSe and FeTe, [5] and the largest so far "22426" for
Fe₂As₂Sr₄V₂O₆. [6] Of the different families of pnictide superconductors
discovered, the largest single crystals have been grown in the AFe₂As₂
phase (A =alkaline earth), known as the "122" phase, which has the
ThCr₂Si₂ crystal structure. In this phase alkali substitution on the
alkaline-earth site professes the highest superconducting transition
temperatures with 38 K in Ba_(1 − x)K_(x)Fe₂As₂ (Ref. [7]) and 37 K in
Sr_(1 − x)K_(x)Fe₂As₂. [8, 9] It has also been found that substituting
Co, Ni, Pd, Ru, Rh, and Ir in SrFe₂As₂ suppresses the magnetic
(structural) transition and induces superconductivity [10, 11, 12, 13,
14] with a maximum T_(c) between 10 and 20 K while Mn and Cr doping
suppress the magnetic transition without the onset of superconductivity.
[15, 16, 17, 18] Superconductivity has also been found in isovalent
chemical substitutions, substituting Ru for Fe, or P for As, in
BaFe₂As₂. [19, 20, 21, 22] However, chemical substitution is not the
only way to induce superconductivity in the iron-based superconductors;
the suppression of magnetic order and the onset of superconductivity
have also been shown to occur in the parent compounds under pressure
[23, 24] and lattice strain. [25]

Recently superconductivity has been discovered with a transition
temperature T_(c) of 23 K in single-crystal samples of BaFe₂As₂ with 5

## II Experimental

Single crystals of SrFe_(2 − x)Pt_(x)As₂ were prepared using the FeAs
self-flux method described in detail elsewhere. [10] Starting materials
[Sr (99.95

Chemical analysis was obtained using electron probe microanalysis with
wavelength dispersive spectroscopy (WDS), the results of which gave the
Pt content and showed proper stoichiometry for each crystal shown.
Resistivity measurements were performed using the standard four-probe ac
method, via gold wire/silver paint contacts with typical contact
resistances of ∼1 Ω at room temperature, and using 0.1 mA excitation
currents at low temperatures. Magnetic susceptibility was measured using
a commercial superconducting quantum interference device magnetometer,
and specific heat was measured using the thermal relaxation method.

## III Results and Discussion

### Chemical and structural analysis

In this study, crystals were grown with as much as 18

Single-crystal x-ray diffraction was used to obtain the _c_-axis lattice
parameters for crystalline samples across the series. As shown in Fig.
1, the unit cell contracts in the _c_-axis direction in this system as
it does for other transition-metal substitutions in the SrFe₂As₂
system.[10, 11, 12, 13] Notably, the progression of the _c_-axis lattice
parameter follows almost exactly that of the Ni-doped series
SrFe_(2 − x)Ni_(x)As₂. Since Pt and Ni have different covalent radii
(1.36 A for Pt and 1.24 A for Ni) it is surprising that within the
experimental accuracy the absolute values of lattice size in the Pt
system approximate those seen in the Ni system, decreasing to 12.25 A
for x = 0.28 (see Fig. 1). This is suggestive of the minimal effect of
the nature of substituent atoms on the unit-cell evolution, likely
dominated by modifications to the electronic structure of the FeAs
layers at these lower concentration levels.

### Electronic transport

Figure 2 presents the temperature dependence of electrical resistivity,
_r_(_T_), in SrFe_(2 − x)Pt_(x)As₂ normalized to the room-temperature
value as well as the derivative of this normalized resistivity,
−d[ρ(T)/ρ(300 K)]/dT. This choice of normalization is done to remove the
error contribution coming from the geometric factor due to unobservable
internal cracks or exfoliation, with data in Fig. 2 shifted vertically
for clarity. At high temperatures, the resistivity is fairly linear in
temperature and with the same slope for all concentrations of Pt,
indicating that the scattering at high temperatures has very little
electronic dependence and is likely dominated by phonons or some other
mechanism that is independent of Pt substitution. In the parent compound
SrFe₂As₂, an onset of antiferromagnetic order at _T_(N)_ as well as a
change from tetragonal to orthorhombic crystal structure at _T₀_ both
occur at a characteristic temperature of 200 K, which manifests itself
as a sharp drop in the resistivity upon decreasing temperature. With
substitution of as little as 2.0

The position of _T₀_, marked by arrows in part (a) of Fig. 2, is
identified with the onset of the sharp drop for x <= 0.035, and the
position of the minimum in resistivity for x >= 0.09. In the related
system BaFe_(2 − x)Co_(x)As₂, the magnetic and structural transitions
that occur simultaneously at 200 K in the parent compound have been
shown to split into two separate transition temperatures upon Co
doping.[28] As done in Ref. [28], we examine the derivative of
resistivity, dρ/dT, in order to identify the splitting of the structural
(_T₀_) and magnetic (_T_(N)_) transitions upon Pt substitution. Shown in
Fig. 2(b), −dρ/dT indeed exhibits a peak whose transition temperature
value differs from the minimum in _r_(_T_) used to identify _T₀_ for
x >= 0.09. Given the resolution of our data, we are unable to resolve
two distinct features in the derivative plot as done in the study by Chu
_et al._,[28] and therefore define _T_(N)_ at the position of the
maximum in −dρ/dT as indicated by arrows in Fig. 2(b). The peak widths
are used to define the uncertainty in _T_(N)_ values associated with
this assignment (see phase diagram in Fig. 6).

At x = 0.09, superconductivity becomes visible in the resistivity, where
it coexists with the magnetically ordered

Figure 1: (Color online) Variation in the _c_-axis lattice parameters
with Pt concentration in single-crystal samples of SrFe_(2 − x)Pt_(x)As₂
compared with that from powder data of SrFe_(2 − x)Ni_(x)As₂ from Ref.
[10]. The _c_-axis length contracts with increasing Pt content,
consistent with previous chemical substitution studies. Error bars were
obtained by finding the lattice constant at the positions of the
half-maximum points on the x-ray diffraction peaks for each sample.

phase. With further substitution the magnetism is gradually suppressed
and vanishes near x = 0.16 (hereafter called optimal doping), where the
maximum _T_(c)_ of 16 K is observed. For x = 0.36 both magnetic order
and superconductivity are suppressed and normal metallic behavior
appears to be recovered.

Figure 3 presents the evolution of the superconducting transition in
resistivity for the optimal doping x = 0.16 in a magnetic field H. With
the increase in H there is a slight broadening of the transition, with
the narrowest transition width of  0.5 K for H = 0 increasing to the
broadest width of  2.5 K at H = 14 T. The inset of Fig. 3 shows the
temperature dependence of the superconducting upper critical field
_H_(c2)_, along with data for optimally doped SrFe_(2 − x)Ni_(x)As₂ from
Ref. [10] for comparison. (The value of _H_(c2)_ is defined by the field
where resistivity drops to 50

### Specific heat and magnetic susceptibility

To verify the bulk thermodynamic nature of the superconducting
transition, specific-heat measurements were performed using an optimally
doped sample, SrFe_(1.88)Pt_(0.16)As₂, with resistive superconducting
transition at 16 K. As shown in Fig. 4, the superconducting transition
is readily identified as an abrupt shift in the smooth _C_(p)(T)_/_T_
curve below 15 K,

Figure 3: (Color online) Magnetic field suppression of the resistive
superconducting transition in optimally doped SrFe_(1.88)Pt_(0.16)As₂
for fields up to 14 T applied parallel to the c axis. The resistivity is
normalized to the room-temperature value. Inset: superconducting upper
critical field _H_(c2)_(T), defined at the 50

Figure 2: (Color online) (a) Electrical resistivity of single-crystal
samples of SrFe_(2 − x)Pt_(x)As₂ normalized to 300 K (data are shifted
vertically for clarity for all concentrations except x = 0.36). The
structural transition _T₀_, identified by the local minima in _ρ_(_T_),
is suppressed with increasing Pt substitution, as indicated by the
arrows. (b) Negative of the temperature derivative of the normalized
resistivity data for characteristics samples from part (a). The
antiferromagnetic transition _T_(N)_ is identified at the local maxima
while the dashed line indicates the zero crossing of −dp/dT
corresponding to local minima in _ρ_(_T_). At optimal doping, x = 0.16,
_T₀_ and _T_(N)_ are no longer discernible and the maximum _T_(c)_ for
the system is found to be 16 K. Neither magnetic order nor
superconductivity is observable at x = 0.36, the highest concentration
sample measured in this study.

consistent with the value of T_(c) observed in resistivity. Because the
values of both T_(c) and H_(c2) in this system are high, a reliable
estimate of the normal-state electronic specific heat γ is difficult due
to the dominant phonon contribution. For this reason we have determined
ΔC_(p)/T_(c) rather than the more traditional quantity ΔC_(p)/γT_(c) as
shown in the inset of Fig. 4. An isentropic construction, as done
previously,[26, 31] gives a value of ΔC_(p)/T_(c) = 17 mJ/mol K.
Assuming the BCS weak-coupling approximation ΔC_(p)/γT_(c)=1.43, the
value of γ is estimated to be ∼12 mJ/mol K², comparable to that found in
other transition-metal-doped BaFe₂As₂ superconductors.[26] In Ref. [31],
the values of ΔC_(p)/T_(c) measured for K, Co, Ni, Rh, and Pd-doped
BaFe₂As₂ superconductors have been shown to scale with T_(c), regardless
of the value of T_(c) or the relative substituent concentration (i.e.,
either underdoped or overdoped) with respect to maximum T_(c). Similar
to BaFe_(2 − x)Pt_(x)As₂,[26] the corresponding value of ΔC_(p)/T_(c)≈
17 mJ/mol K taken at 14.5 K for SrFe_(1.84)Pt_(0.16)As₂ falls in line
with this trend, expanding this interesting relation to include another
5d-transition-metal-doped Sr analog. Although the reason for this
relation is unknown, it indicates some universal effect in pnictide
superconductivity.

The bulk nature of the superconducting transition is also indicated
through the observation of Meissner screening in low-field
magnetic-susceptibility measurements. Because of the small size of
available samples, normalized data are presented in order to provide for
a more useful comparison. Figure 5 presents the temperature dependence
of the change in susceptibility from the normal state at 20 K normalized
to the value at 2 K, Δχ(T)/χ(2 K), where Δχ=χ(20 K−χ(T). Data were
measured in a magnetic field of 1 mT applied parallel to the ab plane
both in zero-field-cooled (ZFC) and field-cooled (FC) conditions. In the
ZFC measurement the samples were initially cooled down to 1.8 K in zero
magnetic field and then 1 mT dc magnetic field was applied. The
saturation of magnetic susceptibility indicates full Meissner screening
and hence a nearly full superconducting volume fraction. The difference
between FC and ZFC curves is due to trapped flux remaining in the sample
as it is cooled through the superconducting transition in field.

As shown, the optimally doped sample x=0.16 shows the sharpest and
highest T_(c), consistent with the specific heat and resistivity data,
while the major drop in Δχ is suppressed in temperature for lower Pt
concentrations. It is apparent that the x=0.09 data shows two
transitions, including a mild drop in Δχ at 15.5 K and a much sharper
drop at 8 K, indicating a sample with mixed phase. This is likely due to
the inclusion of a crystallite with higher Pt concentration in the
collection of several small pieces required to increase signal to noise
to a measurable level. No magnetic transition was observed in
SrFe_(1.84)Pt_(0.16)As₂ in the normal state above T_(c) (not shown),
consistent with the absence of a signature of the transition in
resistivity data.

### Phase diagram

Combining the results of transport and magnetic susceptibility, we
present the phase diagram of Pt substitution for the
SrFe_(2 − x)Pt_(x)As₂ series in Fig. 6. The values of T₀ and T_(N) have
been explained in a previous section and T_(c) is defined at

Figure 4: (Color online) Specific-heat capacity of optimally doped
SrFe_(1.84)Pt_(0.16)As₂, with arrow indicating superconducting
transition temperature. Upper inset: zoom of C_(p)(T)/T near the
superconducting transition, with lines indicating fits to the data above
and below T_(c) and arrows indicating the position where ΔC_(p)/T_(c) is
determined. Lower inset: volume magnetic susceptibility of
SrFe_(1.84)Pt_(0.16)As₂ measured in 1 mT field applied parallel to the
crystallographic basal plane, following both ZFC and FC conditions. The
sharpness of the transition, with onset near 16 K, is identified by the
complete saturation of Meissner screening by 10 K. The bulk nature of
the transition is shown by the achievement of nearly full screening
fraction of 4πχ.

Figure 5: (Color online) Change in magnetic susceptibility [Δχ = χ(20
K−χ(T)] of SrFe_(2 − x)Pt_(x)As₂ normalized to the susceptibility value
at 2 K. Samples were measured in 1 mT field applied parallel to the
crystallographic basal plane for ZFC and FC conditions.

the onset of the resistive transition as determined by the intercept of
the extrapolation of the normal-state data and the midtransition data.
The values of T_(c) obtained from resistivity match with those
signifying the onset in susceptibility for all samples measured (in the
range 0.09 ≤ x ≤ 0.16), as well as the transition measured in specific
heat.

The phase diagram for SrFe_(2 − x)Pt_(x)As₂ system is similar to other
electron-doped members of the 122 family of iron-based
superconductors.[2] The antiferromagnetic ordering is suppressed with
increasing transition-metal substitution, and a superconducting phase is
stabilized at some finite concentration. Using these definitions for T₀
and T_(N), we observe a splitting of the magnetic and structural
transitions. Though generally referred to as a superconducting "dome,"
the shape of the superconducting region of the phase diagrams for
SrFe_(2 − x)Pt_(x)As₂ and SrFe_(2 − x)Ni_(x)As₂ are more steplike on the
underdoped side than they are domelike. In the case of
SrFe_(2 − x)Pt_(x)As₂, T_(c) is already close to the maximum value of 16
K at the lowest Pt concentration where superconductivity onsets (x =
0.08).

This behavior is also observed in both SrFe_(2 − x)Ni_(x)As₂ (Ref. [10])
and CaFe_(2 − x)Ni_(x)As₂ (Ref. [32]), as well as a recent study of
single-crystalline SrFe_(2 − x)Co_(x)As₂ samples grown using Sn flux
(Ref. [17]). The SrFe_(2 − x)Co_(x)As₂ study also found that the
superconducting dome extends further into the underdoped region than
previous work.[13] In SrFe_(2 − x)Pt_(x)As₂, the superconducting dome is
similarly extended significantly beyond that seen in the Ni-substituted
system, with a larger range of concentrations exhibiting
superconductivity. It also appears that the superconducting dome may be
better described as a plateau. This effect does not appear to be
universal throughout all 122 systems, though, as transition-metal
substitution in BaFe₂As₂ generally shows a gradual, less abrupt onset of
the superconducting dome as a function of doping.[14, 16, 33] It may be
particular to Sr-based 122 systems but more work is required to properly
compare high-quality specimens grown under similar conditions and
measured using similar techniques before grander conclusions can be
made.

Nevertheless, it is apparent that the antiferromagnetic and
superconducting phases share a wide range of coexistence between the
T_(c) onset and optimal doping; future studies determining the extent
and nature of the coexistence of these two phases will be useful for
comparison to other 122 superconducting systems. Finally, it is an
important question as to why superconductivity in Sr-based 122 materials
substituted with Ni,[10] Pd,[11] and now Pt (this work) tend to show
lower maximum values of T_(c) as compared to their Ba-based
counterparts.[26] Ongoing work[34] suggests that pair-breaking effects
may have a role in limiting the transition temperature of some members
of the 122 family of iron-pnictide superconductors.

## IV Summary

In conclusion, single crystals of Pt-substituted SrFe₂As₂ were grown and
characterized with up to 18

###### Acknowledgements.

The authors acknowledge N. P. Butch and R. L. Greene for useful
discussions. This work was partially supported by an AFOSR-MURI under
Grant No. FA9550-09-1-0603 and an NSF-CAREER under Grant No.
DMR-0952716.

Figure 6: (Color online) Phase diagram of the SrFe_(2 − x)Pt_(x)As₂
system. Magnetic (triangles), structural (diamonds), and superconducting
(circles) transition temperatures are obtained from resistivity (solid
symbols) and magnetic susceptibility (open symbols). Solid lines are
added as guides for the structural and superconducting transitions. The
error bars for the magnetic transition temperatures (triangles)
represent the width of the peak in the dρ/dT data (see text).

* [4] Paglione@umd.edu * [5] Y. Kamihara, T. Watanabe, M. Hirano, and H.
Hosono, J. Am. Chem. Soc. **130**, 3296 (2008). * [6] I. I. Mazin,
Nature (London) **464**, 183 (2010); J. Paglione and R. L. Greene, Nat.
Phys. **6**, 645 (2010). * [7] N. P. Butch, M. C. de Andrade, and M. B.
Maple, Am. J. Phys. **76**, 106 (2008) * [8] M. J. Pitcher, D. R.
Parker, P. Adamson, S. J. C. Herkelrath, A. T. Boothroyd, and S. J.
Clarke, Chem. Commun. (Cambridge) **2008**, 5918. * [9] T. M. McQueen,
Q. Huang, V. Ksenofontov, C. Felser, Q. Xu, H. W. Zandbergen, Y. S. Hor,
J. Allred, A. J. Williams, D. Qu, J. Checkelsky, N. P. Ong, and R. J.
Cava, Phys. Rev. B **79**, 014522 (2009). * [10] X. Zhu, F. Han, G. Mu,
P. Cheng, B. Shen, B. Zeng, and H.-H. Wen, Phys. Rev. B **79**,
220512(R) (2009). * [11] M. Rotter, M. Tegel, and D. Johrendt, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **101**, 107006 (2008). * [12] K. Sasmal, B. Lv, B. Lorenz,
A. M. Guloy, F. Chen, Y. Y. Xue, and C. W. Chu, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**101**, 107007 (2008). * [13] G. F. Chen, Z. Li, G. Li, W. Z. Hu, J.
Dong, X. D. Zhang, P. Zheng, N. L. Wang, and J. L. Luo, Chin. Phys.
Lett. **25**, 3403 (2008). * [14] S. R. Saha, N. P. Butch, K.
Kirshenbaum, and J. Paglione, Phys. Rev. B **79**, 224519 (2009). * [15]
F. Han, X. Zhu, P. Cheng, G. Mu, Y. Jia, L. Fang, Y. Wang, H. Luo, B.
Zeng, B. Shen, L. Shan, C. Ren, and H. H. Wen, Phys. Rev. B **80**,
024506 (2009). * [16] W. Schnelle, A. Leithe-Jasper, R. Gumeniuk, U.
Burkhardt, D. Kasinathan, and H. Rosner, Phys. Rev. B **79**, 214516
(2009). * [17] A. Leithe-Jasper, W. Schnelle, C. Geibel, and H. Rosner,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **101**, 207004 (2008). * [18] N. Ni, A. Thaler, A.
Kracher, J. Q. Yan, S. L. Bud’ko, and P. C. Canfield, Phys. Rev. B
**80**, 024511 (2009). * [19] A. S. Sefat, D. J. Singh, L. H. VanBebber,
Y. Mozharivskyj, M. A. McGuire, R. Jin, B. C. Sales, V. Keppens, and D.
Mandrus, Phys. Rev. B **79**, 224524 (2009). * [20] P. C. Canfield, S.
L. Bud’ko, N. Ni, J. Q. Yan, and A. Kracher, Phys. Rev. B **80**, 060501
(2009). * [21] J. Kim, S. Khim, H. Kim, M. Eom, J. Law, R. Kremer, J.
Shim, and K. Kim, Phys. Rev. B **82**, 024510 (2010). * [22] D.
Kasinathan, A. Ormeci, K. Koch, U. Burkhardt, W. Schnelle, A.
Leithe-Jasper, and H. Rosner, New J. Phys. **11**, 025023 (2009). * [23]
S. Sharma, A. Bharathi, S. Chandra, V. R. Reddy, S. Paulraj, A. T.
Satya, V. S. Sastry, A. Gupta, and C. S. Sundar, Phys. Rev. B **81**,
174512 (2010). * [24] Y. Qi, L. Wang, Z. Gao, D. Wang, X. Zhang, and Y.
Ma, Physica C **469**(21), 1921 (2009). * [25] S. Jiang, H. Xing, G.
Xuan, C. Wang, Z. Ren, C. Feng, J. Dai, X. Zhu’an, and G. Cao, J. Phys.:
Condens. Matter **21**, 382203 (2009). * [26] S. Kasahara, T. Shibauchi,
K. Hashimoto, K. Ikada, S. Tonegawa, R. Okazaki, H. Shishido, H. Ikeda,
H. Takeya, K. Hirata, T. Terashima, and Y. Matsuda, Phys. Rev. B **81**,
184519 (2010). * [27] P. L. Alireza, Y. T. C. Ko, J. Gillett, C. M.
Petrone, J. M. Cole, G. G. Lonzarich, and S. E. Sebastian, J. Phys.:
Condens. Matter **21**, 012208 (2009). * [28] M. Kumar, M. Nicklas, A.
Jesche, N. Caroca-Canales, M. Schmitt, M. Hanfland, D. Kasinathan, U.
Schwarz, H. Rosner, and C. Geibel, Phys. Rev. B **78**, 184516 (2008). *
[29] S. R. Saha, N. P. Butch, K. Kirshenbaum, J. Paglione, and P. Y.
Zavalij, Phys. Rev. Lett. **103**, 037005 (2009). * [30] S. R. Saha, T.
Drye, K. Kirshenbaum, N. P. Butch, P. Y. Zavalij, and J. Paglione, J.
Phys.: Condens. Matter **22**, 072204 (2010). * [31] X. Zhu, F. Han, G.
Mu, P. Cheng, J. Tang, J. Ju, K. Tanigaki, and H. H. Wen, Phys. Rev. B
**81**, 104525 (2010). * [32] J.-H. Chu, J. G. Analytis, C. Kucharczyk,
and I. R. Fisher, Phys. Rev. B **79**, 014506 (2009). * [33] N. P.
Butch, S. R. Saha, X. H. Zhang, K. Kirshenbaum, R. L. Greene, and J.
Paglione, Phys. Rev. B **81**, 024518 (2010). * [34] N. R. Werthamer, E.
Helfand, and P. C. Hohenberg, Phys. Rev. B **147**, 295 (1966). * [35]
S. L. Bud’ko, N. Ni, and P. C. Canfield, Phys. Rev. B **79**, 220516
(2009). * [36] N. Kumar, S. Chi, Y. Chen, K. G. Rana, A. K. Nigam, A.
Thamizhavel, W. Ratcliff II, S. K. Dhar, and J. W. Lynn, Phys. Rev. B
**80**, 144524 (2009). * [37] N. Ni, M. E. Tillman, J.-Q. Yan, A.
Kracher, S. T. Hannahs, S. L. Bud’ko, and P. C. Canfield, Phys. Rev. B
**78**, 214515 (2008). * [38] K. Kirshenbaum, S. Ziemak, S. R. Saha, T.
Drye, and J. Paglione (unpublished).
