# Flux creep in a polycrystalline Ba0.6K0.4BiO3 superconductor

M. E. McHenry, M. P. Maley, G. H. Kwei, and J. D. Thompson

Los Alamos National Laboratory, Los Alamos, New Mexico 87545

28 November 1988

###### Abstract

Magnetization curves have been measured as a function of temperature for
a polycrystalline sample of Ba0.6K0.4BiO3. These measurements reveal
significant reversibility at modest fields for all temperatures studied.
The irreversibility line (_H_*,_T_*) is determined for this material and
shows that _H_* is less than 0.8 T at all temperatures. The logarithmic
magnetic relaxation rate A = _dM_/_d_ ln(_t_) has been studied for this
material, as a function of both field and temperature. Analysis using
the flux-creep model reveals the average pinning energy U0 to be 0.08 +-
0.02 eV. This extremely small pinning energy is used to explain the
small critical current, its strong dependence on field, and the
significantly reversible behavior in this material.

The Ba0.6K0.4BiO3 superconductor is of current topical interest because
it is a non-copper-containing oxide superconductor with a T_(c) near 30
K.[1, 2] This system is also of interest because it is three
dimensional, by virtue of its cubic structure, and because of its
structural similarity to the Ba(Pb,Bi)O3 family of superconductors.
Further, this system offers yet another oxide superconductor from which
to glean information as to fundamental and technical properties of this
class of materials.

In this paper we report magnetic properties of Ba0.6* K0.4BiO3, which
was chosen because it has the highest T_(c) (29 K) in the series Ba1.7
+- _x_K_xBiO3.[1] Our sample is single phase, shows a sharp magnetic
transition at 29 K and is considered to be of very high quality.
Magnetization data show the sample to exhibit nearly reversible
properties for all but the lowest temperatures and fields ( < 5 K and <
0.8 T). This reversibility is consistent with small values of the
critical current density as calculated from the Bean model. The critical
current density can also be observed to have a very rapid drop off with
applied field. Both of these observations are consistent with very weak
pinning in the material. We have further examined the nature of the
pinning using magnetic relaxation measurements from which the average
pinning energy can be deduced using the flux-creep model. These
measurements confirm that the pinning energy is indeed extremely small
and similar to that measured in other bismuthate superconductors.[3]

The Ba0.6K0.4BiO3 was prepared using a simplified synthetic route.[4] We
ground, pelletized, and baked overnight at 700 K stoichiometric amounts
of BaNO3 and Bi2O3. This mixture was then added to an appropriate
quantity of KNO3, pelletized, baked, and annealed following the
procedures described by Hinks _et al.[5, 6]_ The pellets were first
baked at 700 degC for 1 h in flowing N2, and sequentially annealed at
450 degC for 3 h and 375 degC for 4 h before furnace cooling, all in
flowing O2. The sample used in these experiments was a thin slice,
approximately 1 mm thick at the center, cut from the edge of one of the
pellets. An x-ray-diffraction scan of the surface of the pellet showed
it to be cubic (_Im_3_m_) and single phase with a lattice constant of
4.2869 A at 297 K. Subsequent neutron-diffraction studies[7] of the
powdered pellets showed that a small amount of the second monoclinic
phase (_I_2/_m_) was present. Presumably, the latter was an oxygen
deficient Ba1.7 +- _x_K_xBiO_y resulting from incomplete oxygenation of
dense interior portions of the pellet that were produced from
liquid-phase sintering of the nitrates. Rietveld refinements of the
structure of the superconducting cubic phase on two separate sets of
neutron-diffraction data gave an average stoichiometry of
Ba0.59K0.41BiO3.03.

dc susceptibility measurements were made using a Quantum Design
superconducting quantum interference device (SQUID) magnetometer in a
field of 50 Oe. These measurements reveal a 29-K onset, a 26-K midpoint,
and 98

Magnetization versus time measurements were made, also with the Quantum
Design SQUID magnetometer. The procedure for acquiring the magnetic
relaxation data consisted of cooling in zero field (ZFC) and, after
waiting to attain a stable temperature, application of the field. The
first magnetization point was taken after the 3 min required to latch
the field. Subsequent magnetization points were taken every 2 min for
the duration of the experiment which was typically 1 h. Between runs the
field was removed and the sample heated to above its transition
temperature to expel all remaining flux. The equilibrium magnetization
values (_M_eq) were approximated as the magnetization of a slowly
field-cooled (FC) sample at the temperature in question. It was
ascertained that negligible relaxation occurred from this field-cooled
state.

Figure 1 illustrates typical magnetization curves as a function of
increasing and decreasing applied field for temperatures of 5, 10, 15,
20, and 25 K. These curves are significant in their reversibility. For
example, even at 5 K, the magnetization curve is essentially reversible
for fields greater than 0.8 T. This low-temperature irreversibility
limit occurs at fields an order of magnitude smaller than those observed
for the 1:2:3 materials.[9] This is consistent with the smaller J_(c)’s
which can be inferred from the Bean model in these materials and
indicative of much weaker pinning. Also indicated is a dramatic fall-off
of J_(c) with applied field in that the irreversibility limit represents
the field at which J_(c) can essentially be taken to be zero.

The irreversibility line can be estimated from these data as is shown in
Fig. 2(a). This curve illustrates the "phase boundary" denoted by the
locus of points H^(•)-T^(•) which separates regions of hysteretic
response from regions of reversible response in the manner originally
prescribed by Muller, Takashige, and Bednorz.[10] Again the significant
feature of this curve is the fact that H^(•) does not exceed 0.8 T at
any temperature. Figure 2(b) shows the temperature dependence of the
magnetic hysteresis ΔM, at fields of 0, 0.5, 1,2, and 4 kG. The
temperature dependence of ΔM and J_(c) scale in the Bean model. Note the
similarity in the temperature dependence of ΔM(T) and H^(•)(T) in Figs.
2(a) and 2(b). Figure 2(c) shows the magnetic hysteresis to scale with
(1 − t)^(3/2) for all but the lowest temperatures and fields in these
materials. This observation is consistent with the assertion that the
critical current density is dramatically influenced by thermal
activation.[11] The fact that the irreversibility criterion is so
manifest in the temperature dependence of the critical current density
is a signature of the extremely weak pinning in this material. This
result is not surprising in light of significantly smaller values of
J_(c) reported in other bismuthate superconductors.[12] This observation
has been used to explain anomalous dissipation effects[12, 13] in these
materials. The small critical current densities are reflected in small
driving forces for flux creep and have recently been discussed in terms
of a thermally assisted flux flow (TAFF) model by Kes _et al.[14]_

Magnetic relaxation measurements have now been made on a variety of
oxide superconductors.[11, 15, 16] The flux creep formalism has been
used to extract volume pinning energies for these materials. Figure 3(a)
illustrates typical time dependences of the magnetization at various
temperatures for our Ba_(0.6)K_(0.4)BiO₃ sample, cooled initially in
zero field, when a field of 1 kG is applied. The magnetization M in each
case is normalized by the initial magnetization value M₁ as given by the
first measured data point (t₁ = 200-250 sec). The magnetization is seen
to change by approximately 2.5

In the flux creep model[17] the thermally activated hop

Figure 1: Magnetization curves for Ba_(0.6)K_(0.4)BiO₃ on increasing
(filled circles) and decreasing (open circles) fields for (a) 5 K, (b)
10 K, (c) 15 K, (d) 20 K, and (e) 25 K.

ping rate for fluxons is expressed as

$$R = R_{0}\exp\left( \frac{ - U_{0}}{ kT} \right)\sinh\left( \frac{ - \Delta W}{ kT} \right)\;,$$
(1)

where U₀ represents the average pinning energy in the material, R₀ is an
attempt frequency, and ΔW is the driving force due to the flux gradient
which is proportional to the critical current density of the material.
In the case of a substantial ΔW term sinh (−ΔW/kT)→exp (−ΔW/dT). In this
limit the time dependence of the magnetization can be shown to be
logarithmic. However, in the case where ΔW is small,
sinh (−ΔW/kT)→(−ΔW/kT), and non-logarithmic time dependence of the
magnetization can be derived. In this work we examine the time
dependence of the magnetization for a field of 1 kG which is small
enough to give a large enough driving force to use logarithmic fits to
the time dependence. For low temperatures and fields, our magnetic
relaxation data here is accurately described by the empirical
relationship

M = M₀ + Aln (t) ,
which is the hallmark of the flux creep model. This expression is not
particularly accurate for high fields and high temperatures (i.e., for
very small driving force). This regime will be discussed in a subsequent
work.

The very strong temperature dependence of the relaxation in this
Ba_(0.6)K_(0.4)BiO₃ sample is manifested in the behavior of the
derivative of M(t) with respect to ln(t) as a function of temperature,
as illustrated in Fig. 3(b). In the flux creep model this temperature
dependence is a manifestation of the temperature dependence of the
volume pinning energy U₀ divided by the temperature dependent critical
current density as given in the following expression:

$$\begin{equation*}{\mathcal{A}}=\frac{d(M(t)-M_{\mathrm{eq}})}{d\ln(t)}=\left( \frac{kT}{U_{0}}\right)\frac{J_{c}R}{4c}-\left[\frac{kT}{U_{0}}\right](M_{0}- M_{\mathrm{eq}})\end{equation*}$$
(3)

J_(c) is related to the maximum value of the nonequilibrium
magnetization and R is the thickness of a slab shaped grain. The values
of the logarithmic derivative for this sample is more than an order of
magnitude smaller than those reported for Tl 2:2:2:3 and Y 1:2:3.[16]
The peak in the A vs T curve also occurs at a significantly lower
absolute temperature than that of the previously studied materials at
comparable fields, signifying that the pinning energy is indeed smaller
in these materials.

The average pinning energy U₀ can be derived from the temperature
dependence of A and M₀ − M_(eq), through an Arrhenius plot of
(M₀ − M_(eq))/A vs 1/T. Here M₀ is taken as the fitted value given by
Eq. (1) at a reference time of 1 sec and M_(eq) is estimated by the
value of the field-cooled magnetization from which no significant
relaxation occurs. Such an Arrhenius plot is shown in Fig. 3(c) for the
relaxation data of our sample, taken in an applied field of 1 kG. The
slope of this curve reveals an activation energy of 0.08 ± 0.02 eV for
this material. This value of the volume pinning energy is the smallest
reported to date in oxide superconductors.

It is interesting to compare the values of pinning energies derived from
flux creep measurements in the previously examined polycrystalline
samples of Y 1:2:3 and Tl 2:2:2:2:3 (Ref. [16]) and the presently
reported Ba_(0.6)K_(0.4)BiO₃ sample. The Ba_(0.6)K_(0.4)BiO₃ material
has a significantly lower-volume pinning energy than either of the
previously studied materials. This small pinning energy is interesting
in light of the anomalous dissipation effects and small critical current
densities observed in the bismuthate superconductors in general. It
should also be noted that the Y 1:2:3 material is known to have copious
defects in the form of twin boundaries[18] while the Tl 2:2:2:3 material
is known to exhibit interesting structural modulation along the c axis
due to stacking imperfections.[19] It is therefore plausible that in
comparing the volume pinning energies of different oxide materials that
extrinsic pinning due to defects may be playing an important role. On
the other hand, because of the larger coherence lengths (much larger
than the lattice constant) for the Ba_(0.6)K_(0.4)BiO₃ material
intrinsic pinning is less likely to be an important consideration in
these materials. It therefore remains to be seen whether the different
pinning energies observed for different oxide superconductors is in any
way reflective of their intrinsic pinning properties.

Magnetization measurements as a function of temperature, for a
polycrystalline sample of Ba_(0.6)K_(0.4)BiO₃, reveal significant
reversibility at modest fields for all temperatures. An irreversibility
line has been determined with H^(•) values an order of magnitude smaller
than for Y 1:2:3 at similar reduced temperatures. The logarithmic
magnetic relaxation rate A = dM/dln (t) has been studied for this
material, as a function of both field and temperature. Analysis using
the flux creep model reveals the average pinning energy U₀ to be
0.08 ± 0.02 eV for an applied field of 1 kG. This extremely small
pinning energy is consistent with the small critical currents and
significantly reversible behavior in this material.

One of the authors (M.E.M.) would like to acknowledge helpful
discussions with D. Pines.

## References

* Mattheiss _et al._ (1988)L. F. Mattheiss, E. M. Gyorgy, and D. W.
Johnson, Jr., Phys. Rev. B **37**, 3745 (1988). * Cava _et al._ (1988)R.
J. Cava, B. Batlogg, J. J. Krajewski, R. Farrow, L. W. Rupp, Jr., A. E.
White, K. Short, W. F. Peck, and T. Kometani, Nature (London) **332**,
814 (1988). * Yeshurun (private communication). * Kwei _et al._
(unpublished)G. H. Kwei, S. C. Braithwaite, K. C. Ott, E. J. Peterson,
J. D. Thompson, and W. Kunnmann (unpublished). * Hinks _et al._ (1988)D.
G. Hinks, B. Dabrowski, J. D. Jorgensen, A. W. Mitchell, D. R. Richards,
Shiyou Pei, and Donglu Shi, Nature (London) **333**, 836 (1988). * Hinks
_et al._ (1988)D. G. Hinks, D. R. Richards, B. Dabrowski, A. W.
Mitchell, J. D. Jorgensen, and D. T. Marx, Physica C **156**, 477
(1988). * Kwei _et al._ (unpublished)G. H. Kwei, J. A. Goldstone, A. C.
Lawson, J. D. Thompson, and A. Williams (unpublished). * Bean (1962)C.
P. Bean, Phys. Rev. Lett. **8**, 250 (1962). * McHenry _et al._ (1988)M.
E. McHenry, J. McKittrick, S. Sasayama, V. Kwapong, R. C. O’Handley, and
G. Kalonji, Phys. Rev. B **37**, 623 (1988). * Muller _et al._ (1987)K.
A. Muller, M. Takashige, and J. G. Bednorz, Phys. Rev. Lett. **58**,
1143 (1987). * Yeshurun and Malezemoff (1988)Y. Yeshurun and A. P.
Malezemoff, Phys. Rev. Lett. **60**, 2202 (1988). * van den Berg _et
al._ (unpublished). * van den Berg _et al._ (1988)J. van den Berg, C. J.
van der Beek, P. H. Kes, and J. A. Mydsch (unpublished). * Palstra _et
al._ (1988)T. T. M. Palstra, B. Batlogg, L. F. Schneemeyer, and J. V.
Waszczak, Phys. Rev. Lett. **61**, 1662 (1988). * Kes _et al._ (1988)P.
H. Kes, J. Aarts, J. van den Berg, C. J. van der Beek, and J. A. Mydsch
(unpublished). * McHenry _et al._ (1988)M. E. McHenry, M. Foldeaki, J.
McKittrick, R. C. O’Handley, and G. Kalonji, Physica C **153-155**, 310
(1988). * McHenry _et al._ (1989)M. E. McHenry, M. P. Maley, E. L.
Venturini, and D. L. Ginley, Phys. Rev. B **39**, 4784 (1989). * Kim
(1964)Y. B. Kim, Rev. Mod. Phys. **36**, 39 (1964). * Mitchell _et al._
(1988)T. E. Mitchell, T. Roy, R. B. Schwarz, J. F. Smith, and D.
Wohlleben, J. Electron Microsc. **8**, 317 (1988). * Chu _et al._
(1988)C. W. Chu, P. H. Hor, R. L. Meng, Z. J. Meng, Z. J. Huang, L. Gao,
Y. Y. Xue, Y. Y. Sun, Y. Q. Wang, and J. Bechtold, Physica C
**153-155**, 1138 (1988).
