# Superconductivity in palladium-based Heusler compounds

Jurgen Winterlik, Gerhard H. Fecher, Anja Thomas, and Claudia Felser

Institut fur Anorganische und Analytische Chemie, Johannes
Gutenberg-Universitat, 55099 Mainz, Germany

5 September 2008; published 4 February 2009

###### Abstract

This work reports on four more Heusler superconductors: Pd₂ZrAl,
Pd₂HfAl, Pd₂ZrIn, and Pd₂HfIn. These compounds exhibit superconducting
transition temperatures ranging from 2.4-3.8 K as determined by
resistivity measurements. According to their behavior in an external
magnetic field, all compounds are type II bulk superconductors. The
occurrence of superconductivity was predicted for these compounds using
electronic structure calculations. The electronic structures exhibit van
Hove singularities (saddle points) at the L point. These lead to a
maximum in the corresponding density of states and superconductivity
according to the van Hove scenario. The superconducting properties of
electron-doped and hole-doped substituted compounds
Pd₂B_(1 → B)B_(x)^(′)ΔI, whereby B = Zr and Hf, and B^(′) = Y, Nb, and
Mo, were investigated to obtain information about the dependence of the
transition temperature on the density of states at the Fermi energy
following the van Hove scenario. The calculated electronic structure
reveals that the substituted compounds do not follow a rigid-band model.
In addition, the random distribution of the substituted atoms strongly
increases impurity-type electron scattering. The substituent
concentrations used in this work lead to strongly enhanced impurity-type
scattering and eventually to suppression of the superconducting state.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.79.064508 PACS number(s): 71.20.Be, 74.70.Ad,
75.20.En, 85.25.Cp + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL REVIEW B **79**,
064508 (2009)

## I Introduction

Heusler compounds with the L2₁ structure type and a stoichiometric
composition A₂BC became popular with the archetype Cu₂MnAl,[1] a
remarkable compound that shows ferromagnetic ordering despite the
absence of any ferromagnetic element. At present, the Heusler family is
widely associated with the research area of spintronic applications.
Some Heusler compounds have been reported to show half-metallic
ferromagnetism,[2, 3] a feature of utmost concern with respect to the
desired high degree of spin polarization, and thus for implementation in
spintronic applications. Several Co-based Heusler compounds were
employed as electrodes in magnetic tunnel junctions.[4, 5] In contrast
to the magnetic Heusler compounds, Heusler superconductors play a minor
role with respect to application because of their low transition
temperatures. Investigating what causes a certain Heusler compound to
show magnetic order or superconductivity is, however, of general
scientific interest.

Up to now, very few Heusler compounds have been reported to be
superconductors; the first of these were published in Ishikawa’s
pioneering review.[6] Currently, Pd₂YSn is the Heusler compound with the
highest critical temperature T_(c) of 4.9 K.[7] Despite the occurrence
of ferromagnetic ordering in elemental nickel, Heusler compounds with
nickel at the Wyckoff 8ϵ position were found to exhibit
superconductivity; the compound with the currently highest critical
temperature of 3.4 K, Ni₂NbSn, was reported in 1983.[7] The coexistence
of superconductivity and antiferromagnetic order was found in Heusler
compounds Pd₂YbSn (Ref. [8]) and Pd₂ErSn.[9]

For a better understanding of the magnetic properties of solid
materials, we need to understand their electronic structures. We have
performed electronic structure calculations using _ab initio_ methods in
order to find promising palladium-based Heusler compounds as candidates
for superconductivity that match our design criterion, i.e., a saddle
point at a certain high-symmetry point in the energy dispersion curve at
the Fermi energy ϵ_(F). Such a saddle point leads to a high density of
states n(ϵ_(F)) at the Fermi energy. These are referred to as van Hove
singularities.[10] Prospective candidates for superconductivity include
certain Heusler compounds with 27 electrons that exhibit a saddle point
at the L point close to ϵ_(F) in the corresponding energy dispersion
curve according to the van Hove scenario.[11, 12, 13] It is known from
the BCS theory for superconductivity that the transition temperature of
a superconducting material increases exponentially with an increasing
n(ϵ_(F)) given that Debye frequency and Cooper-pairing interaction are
independent of n(ϵ_(F)).[14] The unusually high transition temperatures
of the intermetallic A15 superconductors, which are highly important for
application purposes (i.e., as superconducting magnets), were explained
with the van Hove scenario. Based on the van Hove scenario, we have
already reported Heusler superconductors with 27 electrons: Pd₂ZrAl,
Pd₂HfAl, and Ni₂ZrGa.[12, 13] Here we present a more detailed
investigation of the palladium-based compounds and report two more
27-electron superconducting Heusler compounds: Pd₂ZrIn and Pd₂HfIn.
Electron-doping and hole-doping experiments were performed with Pd₂ZrAl
and Pd₂HfAl to investigate the dependence of T_(c) on the energy of the
corresponding van Hove singularities. To do this, we prepared and
characterized solid solutions of pure compounds of
Pd₂B_(1 → B)B_(x)^(′)ΔI, whereby B = Zr and Hf, and B^(′) = Y, Nb, and
Mo.

## II Calculational details

The electronic and vibrational properties of the pure compounds were
calculated by means of wien2k (Refs. [15, 16]) in combination with
phonon.[17] The electronic properties of the substituted–electron-doped
or hole-doped–compounds were calculated using the
Korringa-Kohn-Rostocker method together with the coherent-potential
approximation.[18, 19] The electronic structure of the pure A₂BC
compounds was calculated using the full potential linearized augmented
plane-wave (FLAPW) method as implemented in wien2k. The
exchange-correlation functional was taken within the generalized
gradient approximation (GGA).[20] A 25×25 ×25 point mesh was used as
basis for integration in the cubic systems resulting in 455 k points in
the irreducible wedge of the Brillouin zone. The energy convergence
criterion was set to 10⁻⁵ Ry while, at the same time, the criterion for
charge convergence was set to 1×10⁻³e⁻. The muffin-tin radii were set to
2.5 a_(0B) (a_(0B)=0.529 177 2 A) for the transition metals as well as
the main group element. The primitive fcc cell, which contains four
atoms, was enlarged to a cell with 16 distinguished atoms to calculate
the Hellmann-Feynman forces for the phonon analysis. For these
calculations, a force convergence criterion of 1×10⁻⁴ Ry a_(0B)⁻¹ was
used in addition to the energy and charge convergence criteria. All
phonon calculations were performed for the optimized lattice parameter.

The electronic structure of the substituted A₂B_(1 − x)B_(x)^(′)C
compounds was calculated by means of the full relativistic
Korringa-Kohn-Rostocker (SPRKKR) method.[18; 19] The
exchange-correlation functional was taken within the Vosko-Wilk-Nusair
parametrization.[21; 22] No noticeable differences in the electronic
structure were observed when using the full potential version of the
program together with GGA. The coherent-potential approximation (CPA)
was used to account for the random distribution of the B and B^(′) atoms
in the Pd₂B_(1 − x)B_(x)^(′)Al or Pd₂B_(1 − x)B_(x)^(′)In solid
solutions.

The electronic structures reported below (see Sec. IV) were calculated
for the experimental as well as the optimized lattice parameter of each
compound. Figure 1 shows the results for the optimization of the lattice
parameter for Pd₂ZrAl and Pd₂HfAl. The optimized lattice parameters from
an equation of states fit[25] are slightly larger than experimental
parameters by about 1

## III Experimental details

Polycrystalline ingots were prepared by repeated arc melting of
stoichiometric mixtures of the elements in an argon atmosphere at a
pressure of 1×10⁻⁴ mbar to avoid oxygen contamination. The samples were
subsequently annealed for two weeks at 1073 K in evacuated quartz tubes.
After the annealing process, the samples were quenched to 273 K in a
mixture of ice and water to retain the desired L2₁ structure. Slow
cooling of the samples after the annealing process leads to enhanced
B2-type antisite disorder. This is mainly a disorder between the
transition metal (B) on the 4a site with the main group element (C) on
the 4b site that is often found in Heusler compounds.

The crystal structures of the compounds were investigated using powder
x-ray diffraction (XRD). The XRD measurements were carried out using a
Siemens D5000 diffractometer with monochromatized Cu K_(α) radiation.
The purity of the compounds was confirmed using scanning electron
microscopy with energy dispersive x-ray spectroscopy (EDX). The
superconducting transitions were verified in resistivity measurements
using a Physical Property Measurement System (PPMS, Quantum Design,
Model 6000). The resistivity of samples with polished surfaces was
measured using the four-point probe technique. The diamagnetic shielding
and the Meissner effect of the compounds were investigated using
temperature-dependent and field-dependent magnetization measurements
with a superconducting quantum interference device (SQUID, Quantum
Design, MPMS-XL-5). Small spherical sample pieces of approximately 20 to
120 mg were used to ensure precise measurements. The
temperature-dependent magnetization measurements were carried out under
zero-field-cooled (ZFC) and field-cooled (FC) conditions. For the ZFC
measurements, the samples were first cooled down to 1.8 K without
applying any magnetic field. Afterward, an external magnetic field of
2.5 mT

  --------- --------------- --------------- -------
             $a_{\rm exp}$   $a_{\rm opt}$     B
                  (Å)             (Å)        (GPa)
   Pd₂ZrAl       6.406           6.467        151
   Pd₂ZrIn       6.536           6.623        141
   Pd₂HfAl       6.376           6.436        159
   Pd₂HfIn       6.530           6.592        150
  --------- --------------- --------------- -------

Table 1: Lattice parameters of palladium-based superconducting Heusler
compounds. Compared are the experimental values $a_{\rm exp}$ (see Sec.
IV) with the optimized values $a_{\rm opt}$. B is the bulk modulus.

Figure 1: Optimization of the lattice parameter. Shown is the
optimization for Pd₂ZrAl in (a) and Pd₂HfAl in (b). The solid lines are
the results of an equation of state fit.

was applied, and the sample magnetization was measured with increasing
temperature. The FC magnetization was recorded subsequently in the same
induction field upon cooling down to 1.8 K again. The field-dependent
magnetization was recorded at a temperature of 2 K, well below the
transition temperatures of all superconductors.

## IV Results and discussion

### Pure compounds

#### iv.1.1 Structural characterization

All compounds crystallize in the cubic L2₁ Heusler structure (space
group $Fm\overline{3}m$), where the Wyckoff positions are 8c
($\frac{1}{4},\frac{1}{4},\frac{1}{2}$) for Pd atoms, 4a (0,0,0) for
B=Zr or Hf atoms, and b ($\frac{1}{2},\frac{1}{2},\frac{1}{2}$) for C=Al
or In atoms. Figure 2 shows the diffraction patterns for all pure
compounds. The raw data (black) are compared to the difference between a
calculated Rietveld refinement and the raw data (gray). The experimental
lattice parameters as found from Rietveld refinements are given in
Table 1. The patterns indicate excellent phase purity for all compounds.
In the case of Pd₂ZrIn, the (111) reflex is very small, and the (200)
reflex is not seen at all. This is not an effect of B2-type disorder but
is instead due to almost equal scattering factors of Pd, Zr, and In.
Even in a presumably perfectly ordered L2₁ structure of Pd₂ZrIn, the
intensity of the (200) reflex would be less than 1

Hf and Zr are very difficult to separate during purification of the
elements even in high-purity materials. The used Zr is stated to contain
less than 3

#### iv.1.2 Calculational results

The calculated electronic structures of Pd₂ZrAl and Pd₂ZrIn are shown in
Figs. 4 and 5. The electronic structure of both compounds is very
similar. The hybridization gap–typical for Heusler compounds–that
separates the low-lying s states from the d bands is clearly visible at
around 6 eV below the Fermi energy in the energy dispersion curve as
well as in the density of states of both compounds. This gap is slightly
larger in Pd₂ZrIn, reflecting the larger lattice parameter as compared
to Pd₂ZrAl.

Figure 4: (Color online) Electronic structure of Pd₂ZrAl. (a) displays
the band structure and (b) the density of states. (Both were calculated
using FLAPW for the optimized lattice parameter.)

Figure 3: (Color online) EDX spectra of (a) Pd₂ZrIn and (b) Pd₂HfIn. No
cross contamination of Zr and Hf is observed.

Figure 2: X-ray diffraction patterns of the pure Heusler
superconductors. Panels (a)–(d) display the patterns for Pd₂ZrAl,
Pd₂HfAl, Pd₂ZrIn, and Pd₂HfIn.

Most interesting, however, is the occurrence of a van Hove singularity
just above the Fermi energy at the L point. At the same time, only one
rather steep, d band is crossing the Δ direction. The flat bands forming
the van Hove singularity at the L point result in a maximum density of
states. This maximum density emerging from the states just above ϵ_(F)
is about 3.5 eV⁻¹ in Pd₂ZrAl and thus about 0.8 eV⁻¹ higher than in
Pd₂ZrIn. In both compounds, the density is slightly lower directly at
ϵ_(F).

The energy of the states at the high-symmetry points is summarized in
Table 2 together with the density of states n(ϵ_(F)) at the Fermi
energy. Table 2 shows that the energy of the van Hove singularity at the
L point is rather resistant to variation in the lattice parameter,
whereas some deviations are found in the energies of the states at the Γ
and X points if comparing the values calculated for the experimental and
optimized lattice parameters. The density of states at the Fermi energy
is slightly higher in the Zr compounds compared to the Hf compounds.
Overall, no remarkable differences are noticed if comparing the
compounds or the different lattice parameters used in the calculations.

Figure 6 shows the phonon dispersion and the phonon spectrum of Pd₂ZrAl.
The vibronic structure exhibits four groups of vibrational states, the
low-lying acoustical modes, and the high-lying optical modes. For
high-symmetry directions, the set of acoustic modes (LA, TA₁, and TA₂)
is non-degenerate only along Γ-K. The optical modes are threefold
degenerate at Γ as is revealed in the splitting of the bands in the Σ
direction. The highest optical modes originate from the Al atoms and the
lowest optical modes arise from Pd [see Fig. 6(b)].

The acoustical modes of Pd₂ZrAl are unstable close to the Γ point. The
energies with negative values correspond to wave vectors with complex q
values. This instability is most pronounced in the TA₂ mode, which is
unstable over a wider range of q. Such instabilities were previously
observed in Ni-based and Co-based Heusler compounds.[27, 28] For the
example of Ni₂TiGa, it was shown[28] that magnetic order is not a
necessary condition for phonon softening to occur. Here, this fact is
demonstrated for another nonmagnetic compound.

The phonon dispersion and density of Pd₂ZrIn is shown in Fig. 7, in
which the density can be seen to cover a smaller range of phonon
energies. Due to the higher mass of In, the splitting of the three
groups of optical modes is less pronounced compared to Pd₂ZrAl. The gaps
between the groups are closed or become pseudogaps.

Table 3 summarizes the energies of the optical phonon modes and compares
the average phonon frequency $\overline{\omega}$ =∫ωg(ω)dω to the Debye
temperature Θ_(D). Θ_(D) was determined from a fit of the calculated
specific heat of the phonons to a Debye model. The high-lying optical
modes at about 30 meV in the Al-containing compounds do not overlap with
the remainder of the phonon spectrum and appear like Einstein
frequencies. In a hybrid Einstein-Debye model for Pd₂HfAl, the
corresponding Einstein temperature is Θ_(E)≈ 350 K calculated from the
average phonon frequencies of that mode. The Debye temperature of
Pd₂ZrAl was not clearly revealed from the fit. This is partially due to
the observed phonon softening. Most probably, the clear splitting of the
Zr-induced optical mode requires a hybrid model with two different
Einstein temperatures to describe the specific

c c c c c & a & E(L) & E(Γ) & E(X) & n(ϵ_(F))
& (Å) & (meV) & (meV) & (meV) & (eV⁻¹)
Pd₂ZrAl & 6.406^(*) & 108 & −694 & −317 & 2.6
& 6.467 & 109 & −630 & −299 & 2.7
Pd₂ZrIn & 6.623 & 65 & −307 & −270 & 2.7
Pd₂HfAl & 6.376^(*) & 172 & −643 & −287 & 2.3
& 6.436 & 173 & −585 & −272 & 2.4
Pd₂HfIn & 6.592 & 136 & −171 & −245 & 2.4

Table 2: Energy of the van Hove singularities close to ϵ_(F). The
experimental lattice parameters a of the Al-containing compounds are
assigned by ^(*). All energies E are given with respect to the Fermi
energy ϵ_(F).

Figure 5: (Color online) Electronic structure of Pd₂ZrIn. (a) displays
the band structure and (b) the density of states. (Both were calculated
using FLAPW for the optimized lattice parameter.)

Figure 6: Vibrational structure of Pd₂ZrAl. (a) displays the phonon
dispersion and (b) the phonon density of states g(ω). Note that negative
energies correspond to solutions of the wave equation with complex q
values. (The calculations were performed with the optimized lattice
parameter.)

heat correctly. The Debye temperatures of the In-containing compounds
are lower compared to those with Al, as expected from the differences of
the phonon spectra.

#### iii.2.3 Resistivity

The superconducting transitions of the pure compounds were verified with
temperature-dependent resistivity measurements. Figure 8 shows the
resistive superconducting transitions of the pure compounds. The
transition temperatures $T_{c}^{\rm mid}$ were determined by calculating
the mean value of the onsets and offsets of the superconducting
transitions. The values are summarized in Table 4. In the case of
Pd₂HfIn, the onset of a superconducting transition can already be
observed at approximately 3.1 K, but the resistivity does not drop
straight to zero. This jump is then followed by the pronounced bulk
superconducting transition for the Heusler compound at 2.4 K. No
impurities were found in the XRD pattern of Pd₂HfIn. It is therefore
concluded that this broad onset may be attributed to bulk
inhomogeneities of the sample. It may be caused by an unidentified
ternary or binary impurity phase below the XRD detection limit
consisting of the elements Pd, Hf, and In as neither contaminations nor
impurities of Zr were found in the EDX analysis.

#### iii.2.4 Magnetic properties

The results of the temperature-dependent magnetization measurements are
given in Figs. 9(a)-9(d). All compounds exhibit superconducting
transitions. The onsets of these transitions are given in Table 4.
Thermal irreversibilities between ZFC and FC measurements indicate that
all compounds are type II superconductors. All samples show quite sharp
superconducting transitions indicating low grades of impurity. However,
very large differences in magnitude between ZFC and FC measurements are
found in all cases indicating a reduced Meissner effect. This feature is
caused by flux pinning that is attributed to bulk inhomogeneities. For
all compounds, the resistive superconducting transitions appear at
slightly higher temperatures as compared to the magnetization
measurements. This fact is well known. The resistive transition takes
place when one percolation path throughout the sample becomes
superconducting. The magnetic transition requires a certain
superconducting volume. The volume susceptibilities χ_(V) were
calculated assuming a demagnetization factor of $\frac{1}{3}$ of a
perfect sphere. Using this approximation for all compounds confirms bulk
superconductivity. Precise statements about the superconducting vol

  --------- ------------------- ------------------- --------
             $T_{c}^{\rm Res}$   $T_{c}^{\rm Mgg}$   H_(c1)
                    (K)                 (K)           (mT)
  Pd₂ZrAl           3.2                 3.1           6.0
  Pd₂ZrIn           3.1                 3.0           12.3
  Pd₂HfAl           3.8                 3.4           10.3
  Pd₂HfIn           2.4                 2.3           6.2
  --------- ------------------- ------------------- --------

Table 4: Critical temperatures of the palladium-based Heusler
superconductors. The critical temperatures $T_{c}^{\rm mid}$ of the
resistivity measurements represent mean values of the superconducting
onsets and offsets. The critical temperatures from the magnetization
measurements $T_{c}^{\rm Mgg}$ represent the onsets of the
superconducting transitions.

Figure 8: (Color online) Resistive superconducting transitions of the
pure compounds. Shown is the temperature-dependent resistivity in the
region around $T_{c}^{\rm mid}$ for the Heusler superconductors Pd₂ZrAl,
Pd₂HfAl, Pd₂ZrIn, and Pd₂HfIn.

Figure 7: Vibrational structure of Pd₂ZrIn. (a) displays the phonon
dispersion and (b) the phonon density of states. (The calculations were
performed with the optimized lattice parameter.)

umes, however, cannot be made because the measured samples do not
correspond to perfect spherical or other geometrical bodies. The
segregated unidentified impurity, which was found in the resistivity
measurement of Pd2HfIn, is also observed as additional structure in the
corresponding temperature-dependent magnetization curve. The magnetic
data of Pd2ZrIn also exhibit small deviations. This suggests that the
unidentified impurity may consist of the elements Pd and In only. Due to
the higher transition temperature of Pd2ZrIn, this effect is not visible
in the corresponding resistivity measurement. The critical temperatures
of both compounds may increase if formation of this impurity phase can
be avoided.

Figures 10(a)-10(d) shows the field-dependent magnetizations (butterfly
curves) at temperatures of 2 K in the superconducting state for all
compounds.

Theoretically, the critical magnetic field H_(c1) for a certain
temperature and a certain compound can be determined from the virgin
curve of the field-dependent magnetization. This is not possible,
however, for these intermetallic samples, because the bulk
inhomogeneities lead to a more symmetric shape of the curves, which
impedes accurate calculations of H_(c1). Rough estimations provide
values of H_(c1) for the compounds as presented in Table 4.

### Substituted compounds

According to the van Hove scenario,[11] a maximum T_(c) should be
obtained for a maximum n(ϵ_(F)) at ϵ_(F) at a given Debye frequency and
Cooper-pairing interaction. For the cases of Pd2ZrAl and Pd2HfAl, the
van Hove singularities coincide with ϵ_(F) when the compounds are doped
with electrons. Assuming a rigid-band model and a fixed lattice
parameter, the calculated electronic structure suggests that doping by
about 0.1 of an electron shifts the band with the singularity at L onto
ϵ_(F). This may be established by substituting the group 4 element (Zr,
Hf) by 10

#### 1. Structural characterization

The crystal structures of the substituted alloys were analyzed as
described in Sec. III. The alloys crystallize in the cubic L2₁ Heusler
structure (space group $Fm\overline{3}m$). With the exception of
Pd2Hf0.5Y0.5Al, none of the alloys exhibit any impurities in the XRD
patterns. The experimental lattice parameters are obtained from Rietveld
refinements (see Table 5). The increasing and decreasing lattice
parameters in the solid solutions originate from the differing atomic
radii of the substituted elements. The atomic radii of Nb and Mo are
smaller than those of Zr and Hf, whereas the atomic radius of

  ------------------ ------- --------------
                        a     T_(c)^(acid)
                       (Å)        (K)
    Pd2Zr0.9Y0.1Al    6.432  
    Pd2Zr0.9N0.1Al    6.372       2.1
   Pd2Hf0.7S70.25Al   6.393       3.2
    Pd2Hf0.5Y0.5Al    6.404       2.9
  ------------------ ------- --------------

Table 5: Properties of the substituted palladium-based Heusler
superconductors. a are the measured lattice parameters and T_(c)^(acid)
is the critical temperatures from resistivity measurements.

Figure 10: Butterfly curves for Pd2ZrAl, Pd2HfAl,[12] Pd2ZrIn, and
Pd2HfIn. Panels (a)–(d) show the normalized susceptibilities χ/χ₀ at
temperatures of 2 K in a range from −100 to 100 mT, respectively. All
curves were measured from the ZFC state.

Figure 9: (Color online) Temperature-dependent magnetization of the pure
compounds. Panels (a)–(d) show the volume susceptibilities χ_(V) in the
regions around T_(c) upon ZFC and FC conditions for Pd2ZrAl,
Pd2HfAl,[12] Pd2ZrIn, and Pd2HfIn. The measurements were performed with
magnetic induction fields μ₀H of 2.5 mT, respectively.

Y is larger. This is reflected in the lattice parameters listed in Table
5. Besides the impurities, which were found in the XRD pattern of
Pd₂Hf_(0.5)Y_(0.5)Al, the small difference between the lattice
parameters of Pd₂Hf_(0.75)Y_(0.25)Al and Pd₂Hf_(0.5)Y_(0.5)Al supports
the conclusion that the lattice of Pd₂Hf_(1 − x)Y_(x)Al becomes
saturated with Y when 0.25 ≤ x ≤ 0.5. Increasing the Y concentration
above this limit causes impurities to segregate. One of these impurities
was identified as elemental yttrium.

#### iii.2.2 Calculational results

Figure 11 shows a comparison between the density of states of the
Pd₂Zr_(0.9)Y_(0.1)Al and Pd₂Zr_(0.9)Nb_(0.1)Al solid solutions and of
Pd₂ZrAl in its pure form. The calculations were performed using SPRKKR
and the results agree very well with the density of states from the
FLAPW calculations. The solid solutions were treated in the CPA
approximation. It should be noted that a band structure is no longer
persistent in the random alloys due to the lack of periodicity.

Figure 11(a) shows that the maximum density of states close above ϵ_(F),
being indicative for the van Hove singularity at the L point, is
slightly shifted to higher energies in the Y-substituted compound. This
is due to underdoping of electrons. The position of the maximum is
rather stable for electron doping in the Nb-containing compound [see
Fig. 11(c)] in comparison to the pure Zr compound [see Fig. 11(b)]. This
shows that bands do not behave completely rigid. However, a small shift
of ϵ_(F) is evident. Adequate electron doping should thus allow the van
Hove singularity to coincide with ϵ_(F). In theory, the situation is
rather similar for electron-doped and hole-doped Pd₂HfAl.

Figure 12 illustrates the effect of electron doping on the electronic
properties for the examples of Pd₂Zr_(1 − x)Nb_(x)Al and
Pd₂Hf_(1 − x)Nb_(x)Al. The energy shift of the maximum of n(E)
associated with the van Hove singularity at the L point cannot be given
more precisely due to lack of a band structure. From the fit, it is
expected that the singularity coincides with ϵ_(F) at a Nb concentration
of approximately 20 or 30

A detailed analysis of Pd₂HfAl reveals that this increase is not primary
due to the shift of the maximum of the density of states arising from Pd
states of the pure compound but by an increase in the density located at
the Nb atoms. This reordering of the electron densities demonstrates
that a rigid-band model is not directly applicable for this sort of
compounds even if using a fixed lattice parameter in the calculations.
Pd₂ZrAl shows an intermediate maximum of n(ϵ_(F)). In this case, the
local density of states $n_{\rm pd}(\epsilon_{F})$ at the Pd atoms also
exhibits a maximum. Here, the Nb concentration x at the intermediate
maximum of n(x, ϵ_(F)) corresponds to the one where the van Hove saddle
point at L coincides with the Fermi energy.

In a trivial analysis, the increase in states at ϵ_(F) may suggest that
the resistivity decreases already in the normal conducting state. This
is, indeed, not the case due to the strong influence of impurity
scattering in the substituted compounds. The random distribution of the
Zr or Hf and Nb atoms on a common site of the lattice leads to an
increase in

Figure 11: Electronic structure of Pd₂Zr_(0.9)R_(0.1)Al, B = Y, Nb.
Compared is the density of states of the pure compound to the cases of
10

Figure 12: (Color online) Electron doping in Pd₂Zr_(1 − x)Nb_(x)Al and
Pd₂Hf_(1 − x)Nb_(x)Al. (a) shows the residual resistivity due to
_impurity_ scattering, (b) shows the energy shift of the maximum of n(E)
associated with the van Hove singularity at the L point, and (c) shows
the density of states at the Fermi energy relative to the density in the
pure compounds with x = 0. (Calculated for the _normal_ conducting state
by SPRKKR with the fixed lattice parameters of the pure compounds.)

the resistivity as is also observed for simple binary alloys such as
Pd_(1 − x)Ag_(x).[29; 30] It is conceivable that reordering of charges
and/or impurity scattering prevent an increase in the superconducting
transition temperature.

#### iii.2.3 Resistivity

All solid solutions were investigated with respect to superconductivity
in temperature-dependent resistivity measurements as described in Sec.
III. The corresponding critical temperatures T_(c)^(mid) are given in
Table 5. Figure 13 shows the resistivity measurement of Pd₂ZrAl in
comparison to the alloys Pd₂Zr_(0.9)Y_(0.1)Al and Pd₂Zr_(0.9)Nb_(0.1)Al.
A superconducting transition was only found in Pd₂Zr_(0.9)Nb_(0.1)Al
(T_(c)^(mid)=2.1 K). In this alloy, resistivity already begins to
decrease at approximately 4.1 K. This may be attributed to a
superconducting impurity phase below the detection limit of XRD. This
phase may be a disordered cubic A15 material.[31] Some of these are
known to exhibit superconducting transitions around 4 to 5 K.
Pd₂Zr_(0.9)Y_(0.1)Al does not show a superconducting transition. A small
drop in resistivity occurs at approximately 2.6 K, but this does not
correspond to a bulk superconducting transition. Most probably, this
drop is caused by small superconducting paths in regions with lower
yttrium contents throughout the inhomogeneous bulk sample. Figure 14
shows the temperature-dependent resistivity of Pd₂HfAl in comparison to
the alloys Pd₂Hf_(0.75)Y_(0.25)Al and Pd₂Hf_(0.5)Y_(0.5)Al.
Superconducting transitions are observed in both alloys but the
transition temperature decreases with increasing yttrium concentration.

Maximum transition temperatures were expected for electron-doped Pd₂ZrAl
and Pd₂HfAl according to the van Hove scenario. For Pd₂HfAl, no
conclusion can be drawn about the possibility of electron doping and
increasing T_(c) because only Y was incorporated successfully into the
unit cell of Pd₂HfAl. This hole doping led to a decrease in T_(c) with
increasing Y content as expected from the electronic structure. For
Pd₂ZrAl, hole doping with 10

## V Summary and Conclusions

Using _ab-initio_ calculations as a basis, the Heusler compounds
Pd₂ZrAl, Pd₂HfAl, Pd₂ZrIn, and Pd₂HfIn have been identified as prospects
for superconductivity according to the van Hove scenario. Resistivity
and magnetization measurements provided evidence that all compounds are
type II bulk superconductors with transition temperatures in the range
of 2.4-3.8 K. Following the van Hove scenario, solid solutions of
Pd₂B_(1 − x)B_(x)^(′)Al with B=Zr and Hf, and B^(′)=Y, Nb, and Mo were
synthesized to investigate the dependence of superconducting properties
on the valence electron concentration and thus the density of states at
the Fermi energy. Although the incorporation of some elements was
possible for both compounds Pd₂ZrAl and Pd₂HfAl, superconductivity was
suppressed in all solid solutions as compared to the pure compounds. The
rather sizable amounts of the substituents used here provoked a degree
of disorder beyond the validity of the Anderson theorem. Instead of
shifting the van Hove singularities to ϵ_(F) they caused suppressions of
the superconducting state.

Figure 14: (Color online) Resistive superconducting transitions for the
solid solutions Pd₂Hf_(1 − x)Y_(x)Al. Shown is the temperature-dependent
resistivity in the region around T_(c)^(mid) for the pure compound
Pd₂HfAl as well as the alloys Pd₂Hf_(0.75)Y_(0.25)Al and
Pd₂Hf_(0.5)Y_(0.5)Al.

Figure 13: (Color online) Resistive superconducting transitions for the
solid solutions Pd₂Zr_(1 − x)B_(x)^(′)Al. Shown is the
temperature-dependent resistivity in the region around T_(c)^(mid) for
the pure compound Pd₂ZrAl as well as the alloys Pd₂Zr_(0.9)Y_(0.1)Al and
Pd₂Zr_(0.9)Nb_(0.1)Al.

## Acknowledgments

This work has been funded by the DFG (German Research Foundation)
through the "_Condensed Matter Systems with Variable Many-Body
Interactions_" Collaborative Research Center (Transregio Grant No.
SFB/TRR 49). The authors thank Changhai Wang and Andrei Gloskovskii for
the EDX analysis and Gerhard Jakob for suggestions and fruitful
discussions. The authors are also very grateful to P. Blaha (Vienna,
Austria), H. Ebert (Munich), and their groups for development and
providing the computer codes.

## References

* [1] F. Heusler, Verhandl. DPG **5**, 219 (1903). * [2] C. Felser, G.
H. Fecher, and B. Balke, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. **46**, 668 (2007). * [3]
H. C. Kandpal, G. H. Fecher, and C. Felser, J. Phys. D **40**, 1507
(2007). * [4] T. Marukame, T. Ishikawa, S. Hakamata, K. Matsuda, T.
Uemura, and M. Yamamoto, Appl. Phys. Lett. **90**, 012508 (2007). * [5]
N. Tezuka, N. Ikeda, S. Sugimoto, and K. Inomata, Appl. Phys. Lett.
**89**, 252508 (2006). * [6] M. Ishikawa, J. L. Jorda, and A. Junod, in
_Superconductivity in d- and f-Band Metals_, edited by W. Buckel and W.
Weber (Kernfroschungszentrum, Karlsruhe, Germany, 1982). * [7] J. H.
Wernick, G. W. Hull, J. E. Bernardini, and J. V. Waszczak, Mater. Lett.
**2**, 90 (1983). * [8] H. A. Kierstead, B. D. Dunlap, S. K. Malik, A.
M. Umarji, and G. K. Shenoy, Phys. Rev. B **32**, 135 (1985). * [9] R.
N. Shelton, L. S. Hausermann-Berg, M. J. Johnson, P. Klavins, and H. D.
Yang, Phys. Rev. B **34**, 199 (1986). * [10] L. van Hove, Phys. Rev.
**89**, 1189 (1953). * [11] C. Felser, J. Solid State Chem. **160**, 93
(2001). * [12] J. Winterlik, G. H. Fecher, and C. Felser, Solid State
Commun. **145**, 475 (2008). * [13] J. Winterlik, G. H. Fecher, C.
Felser, M. Jourdan, K. Grube, F. Hardy, H. von Lohneysen, K. L. Holman,
and R. J. Cava, Phys. Rev. B **78**, 184506 (2008). * [14] G. Gladstone,
M. A. Jensen, and J. R. Schrieffer, in _Superconductivity_, edited by R.
D. Parks, (Dekker, New York, 1969), Vol. 2. * [15] P. Blaha, K. Schwarz,
P. Sorantin, and S. Tricky, Comput. Phys. Commun. **59**, 399 (1990). *
[16] P. Blaha, K. Schwarz, G. K. H. Madsen, D. Kvasnicka, and J. Luitz,
_WIEN2k, An Augmented Plane Wave+Local Orbitals Program for Calculating
Crystal Properties_ (Technische Universitat Wien, Wien, Austria,
2001). * [17] K. Parlinski, Software phonon, 2006. * [18] H. Ebert, in
_Lecture Notes in Physics_, edited by H. Dreysse (Springer, New York,
1999), Vol. 535, pp. 191-246. * [19] H. Ebert, The Munich spr-krr
package, Version 3.6, 2005
(http://olymp.cup.uni-muenchen.de/ak/ebert/SPRKKR). * [20] J. P. Perdew,
K. Burke, and M. Ernzerhof, Phys. Rev. Lett. **77**, 3865 (1996). * [21]
S. H. Vosko and L. Wilk, Phys. Rev. B **22**, 3812 (1980). * [22] S. H.
Vosko, L. Wilk, and M. Nusair, Can. J. Phys. **58**, 1200 (1980). * [23]
D. M. Teter, G. V. Gibbs, M. B. Boisen, D. C. Allan, and M. P. Teter,
Phys. Rev. B **52**, 8064 (1995). * [24] P. Mohn, P. Blaha, and K.
Schwarz, J. Magn. Magn. Mater. **140-144**, 183 (1995). * [25] S. C.
Lee, T. D. Lee, P. Blaha, and K. Schwarz, J. Appl. Phys. **97**, 10C307
(2005). * [26] J. P. Perdew, A. Ruzsinszky, G. I. Csonka, O. A. Vydrov,
G. E. Scuseria, L. A. Constantin, X. Zhou, and K. Burke, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **100**, 136406 (2008). * [27] C. Bungaro, K. M. Rabe, and A. Dal
Corso, Phys. Rev. B **68**, 134104 (2003). * [28] A. T. Zayak, P. Entel,
K. M. Rabe, W. A. Adeagbo, and M. Acet, Phys. Rev. B **72**, 054113
(2005). * [29] W. H. Butler and G. M. Stocks, Phys. Rev. B **29**, 4217
(1984). * [30] P. Weinberger, _Electron Scattering Theory for Ordered
and Disordered Matter_ (Clarendon, Oxford, 1990). * [31] H. Gutfreund,
M. Weger, and O. Entin-Wohlman, Phys. Rev. B **31**, 606 (1985). * [32]
P. W. Anderson, J. Phys. Chem. Solids **11**, 26 (1959). * [33] M. Ma
and P. A. Lee, Phys. Rev. B **32**, 5658 (1985). * [34] S. V. Vonsovsky,
Y. A. Izyumov, and E. Z. Kurmaev, _Superconductivity of Transition
Metals_ (Springer-Verlag, Berlin, Germany, 1982).
