# High-pressure study on MgB₂

B. Lorenz, R. L. Meng, and C. W. Chu*

Department of Physics and Texas Center for Superconductivity, University
of Houston, Houston, Texas 77204-5932

14 February 20012 June 2001

###### Abstract

The hydrostatic pressure effect on the newly discovered superconductor
MgB₂ has been determined. The transition temperature T_(c) was found to
decrease linearly at a large rate of −1.6 K/GPa, in good quantitative
agreement with the ensuing calculated value of −1.4 K/GPa within the BCS
framework by Loa and Syassen, using the full-potential linearized
augmented plane-wave method. The relative pressure coefficient d ln
T_(c)/dp for MgB₂ also falls between the known values for conventional
sp and d superconductors. The observation, therefore, suggests that
electron-phonon interactions play a significant role in the
superconductivity of the compound.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.64.012507 PACS number(s): 74.60.−w, 74.62.Fj,
74.25.Fy, 74.25.Ha + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL REVIEW B, VOLUME 64,
012507

The recent discovery[1] of superconductivity in MgB₂ at temperatures as
high as 40 K has generated great interest. MgB₂, which exhibits an AlB₂
structure with honeycomb layers of boron atoms, appears to be
electrically three dimensional[2] and its grain boundaries have a far
less detrimental effect on superconducting current transport.[3] The new
compound may provide a new way to a higher superconducting transition
temperature T_(c) and an easier avenue for devices. Two models[2, 4]
were subsequently advanced to account for the observation. While both
have attributed the superconductivity observed mainly to the conduction
bands derived from the boron sublattice, they propose different
mechanisms responsible for the superconducting pairing. Based on band
calculations, Kortus _et al.[2]_ suggest that it results from the strong
electron-phonon interaction and the high phonon frequency associated
with the light boron element. A relatively large boron isotope effect on
T_(c) has recently been observed,[7] consistent with the suggestion.
However, Hirsch[4] offers an alternate explanation in terms of his
"universal" mechanism, conjecturing that superconductivity in MgB₂,
similar to that in cuprate superconductors, is driven by the pairing of
the heavily dressed holes in bands that are almost full to gain enough
kinetic energy to overcome the Coulomb repulsion. A positive pressure
effect on T_(c) has also been predicted by Hirsch if the pressure can
reduce the B-B intra-plane distance. We have therefore decided to
determine the hydrostatic pressure effect on T_(c). The T_(c) was found
to decrease linearly and reversibly with pressures at a relatively large
rate of dT_(c)/dp∼−1.6 K/GPa up to 1.84 GPa. The observation is in good
quantitative agreement with the ensuing calculated result of −1.4 K/GPa
by Loa and Syassen,[5] using the full-potential linearized augmented
plane-wave method. The observed value of d ln T_(c)/dp also falls within
those of conventional sp and d superconductors. The results therefore
suggest that electron-phonon interactions play a major role in the
superconductivity of this compound.

The polycrystalline MgB₂ samples examined in the present study were
prepared by the solid-state reaction method.[7] Small Mg chips (99.8

The powder XRD pattern of the samples displayed the hexagonal MgB₂ phase
but with a very weak trace of MgO. The deduced lattice parameters are
=3.084 A and c =3.523 A in excellent agreement with the powder
diffraction database.[9]

The Seebeck coefficient (_S_) of MgB₂ is positive and relatively small
and decreases with decreasing temperature, as shown in Fig. 1, similar
to a metal with effective hole-type carriers. It also exhibits a rapid
drop at 38.9 K and vanishes at 38.1 K, signaling the appearance of a
narrow superconducting transition and consistent with the electrical and
magnetic results to be described below. The temperature dependence of
the resistivity (_r_) is shown in the inset to Fig. 1. It decreases like
a metal on cooling, with a resistivity ratio _r_(300 K)/_r_(40 K)∼3,
much smaller than the ∼20 reported.[5] We attributed the
resistivity-ratio difference to the porosity and the grain boundary
effect of our samples. The r starts to drop rapidly at ∼39 K with a
rather narrow transition of 0.35 K, defined as the difference between
the temperatures at 10

To determine the pressure effect on T_(c), we chose to measure the ac
magnetic susceptibility (χ_(ac)) of the sample in a peak-to-peak field
of ∼ 2 Oe. At ambient pressure, similar to χ_(dc), χ_(ac) undergoes a
drastic diamagnetic shift with an onset temperature at ∼ 38.5 K,
characteristic of a superconducting transition with a midpoint
temperature of ∼ 37.4 K, as shown in Fig. 2. Under pressure, the
superconducting transition is shifted toward a lower temperature. The
pressure effect on T_(c) is summarized in Fig. 3. It is evident that
T_(c) is suppressed reversibly and linearly at a rate of T_(c)/dP = −
1.6 K/GPa up to 1.84 GPa. The numbers in the figure represent the
sequential order of the experimental runs.

According to BCS theory, T_(c) ∝ ωexp{−1.02(1 + λ)/[λ(1 - μ*) - μ*]},
where ω is the characteristic phonon frequency, μ* the Coulomb
repulsion, and λ the electron-phonon interaction parameter,[10] which is
equal to N(0)×(I²)/M(ω²) with N(0) being the density of states at the
Fermi energy, ⟨I²⟩ the averaged square of the electronic matrix element,
M the atomic mass, and ⟨ω²⟩ the averaged square of the phonon frequency.
The relative pressure effect on T_(c) is dln T_(c)/dP = dln ω/dP +
1.02/[λ(1 - μ*) - μ*]²(dλ/dP). Recent band calculations by Kortus _et
al.[2]_ showed that MgB₂ is electronically isotropic, the N(0) derived
mainly from the B atoms near the Fermi surface is large, and the phonon
frequency is high due to the low mass of B, resulting in a large λ.
Pressure is expected to increase ω, broaden the density of states, and
it may reduce N(0), resulting in a relatively strong decrease in T_(c).
Following the high-pressure experiment, Loa and Syassen[3] as well as
Vogt _et al.[6]_ carried out the full-potential linearized augmented
plane-wave calculation. Loa and Syassen found that MgB₂ is isotropic
both electronically and mechanically and found that pressure suppresses
N(0) with dln N(0)/dP = −0.31

Figure 3: T_(c) vs P. The numbers represent the sequential order of the
experimental runs.

Figure 2: χ_(ac) vs T at various pressures.

mated increase of ω, indicating that the main source of the decrease of
T_(c) with pressure is its effect on ω.

It has also been demonstrated [11] that, within the framework of BCS
theory, the volume effect on T_(c) can be expressed as
ln(T_(c)/ω)/dV=ϕln(ω/T_(c)), where ω is the phonon frequency, V the
volume, and ϕ a material-dependent parameter. For sp superconductors, ϕ∼
2.5, while for the d superconductors, ϕ< 2.5 and can become negative.
The lack of knowledge on ϕ and on the compressibility of MgB₂ prevents
us from making a direct comparison between our observation and the
predicted ϕ. However, by examining all available data on the relative
pressure effect on the T_(c) of conventional low-temperature noncuprate
superconductors, [11, 12, 13] we found that, in general, d ln
T_(c)/dP<−8 ×10⁻² GPa for sp superconductors, but > − 2×10⁻²/GPa for the
d superconductors, and the value is not sensitive to impurities except
for cases where the Fermi surface topology changes due to the applied
pressure or impurity content. For MgB₂, d ln T_(c)/dP∼−4.2×10⁻²/GPa,
which lies between the values for the two groups of conventional
superconductors. It is interesting to note that d ln T_(c)/dP∼−5
×10⁻¹/GPa for K₃C₆₀, [14] in which electron-phonon interaction is
considered to play an important role.

In an alternate approach, regarding the cuprate high-temperature
superconductors, Hirsch [4] proposed that MgB₂ is a hole-doped
superconductor with a conduction band almost completely filled. The
T_(c) varies with carrier concentration nonmonotonically and peaks at an
optimal doping level. Pressure is expected to enhance the T_(c)
resulting from the reduction of the B-B intraplane distance.
Unfortunately, we found that the T_(c) of MgB₂ is greatly suppressed by
pressure even though MgB₂ is mechanically isotropic [5] and the B-B
intraplane distance is expected to decrease under pressure. It should be
noted that a negative pressure coefficient is possible only if the
pressure can induce a large change in the carrier concentration and MgB₂
is overdoped. The positive S observed by us appears to be consistent
with the hole-doped scenario of MgB₂ suggested, although Hall data and
the doping state are still unavailable.

In conclusion, the T_(c) of MgB₂ has been found to decrease linearly and
reversibly up to 1.84 GPa at a large rate of − 1.6 K/GPa, in good
quantitative agreement with the values based on band calculations by
Kortus _et al._ and Loa and Syassen within the BCS framework. The large
relative pressure effect on T_(c) of MgB₂ also falls within those of the
conventional sp and d superconductors. The observation favors the
proposition that electron-phonon interactions play a significant role in
the superconductivity of this compound. Unless the pressure can induce a
large hole transfer in a possibly overdoped MgB₂ to compensate for the
predicted positive pressure effect on T_(c) , the "universal" mechanism
cannot account for the observation.

## Acknowledgments

The authors wish to thank J. Cmaidalka, J. Lenzi, and Y. S. Wang for
assistance in sample synthesis, thermoelectric power, and magnetic
measurements, respectively. This work was supported in part by NSF Grant
No. DMR-9804325, the T. L. L. Temple Foundation, the John J. and Rebecca
Moores Endowment, and the State of Texas through the Texas Center for
Superconductivity at the University of Houston; and at the Lawrence
Berkeley Laboratory by the Director, Office of Energy Research, Office
of Basic Energy Sciences, Division of Material Sciences of the U.S.
Department of Energy under Contract No. DE-AC03-76SF00098.

## References

* [*]Also at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, 1 Cyclotron Road,
Berkeley, CA 94720. * [2] J. Nagamatsu, N. Nakagawa, T. Muranaka, Y.
Zenitani, and J. Akimitsu, Nature (London) **410**, 63 (2001). * [3] J.
Kortus, I.I. Mazin, K.D. Belashchenko, V.P. Antropov, and L.L. Boyer,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **86**, 4656 (2001). * [4] D.K. Finnemore, J. E.
Ostenson, S. L. Bud’ko, G. Lapertot, and P. C. Canfield, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **86**, 2420 (2001). * [5] J.E. Hirsch, cond-mat/0102115
(unpublished). * [6] I. Loa and K. Syassen, Solid State Commun. (to be
published). * [7] T. Vogt, G. Schneider, J.A. Hriljac, G. Yang, and J.S.
Abell, Phys. Rev. B **63**, 220505 (2001). * [8] S.L. Bud’ko, G.
Lapertot, C. Petrovic, C. E. Cunningham, N. Anderson, and P. C.
Canfield, Phys. Rev. Lett. **86**, 1877 (2001). * [9] C.W. Chu and L.R.
Testardi, Phys. Rev. Lett. **32**, 766 (1974). * [10] Powder Diffraction
File, Set 38, p. 509 (JCPDS, 1988). * [11] W.L. McMillan, Phys. Rev.
**167**, 331 (1968). * [12] M. Levy and J.L. Olsen, _Physics of High
Pressures and Condensed Phase_ (North-Holland, Amsterdam, 1964), Chap.
13. * [13] N.E. Brandt and N.I. Ginzburg, Usp. Fiz. Nauk **12**, 344
(1969) [Sov. Phys. Usp. **8**, 202 (1964)]. * [14] T.F. Smith, in
_Superconductivity in d- and f-Band Metals_, edited by David H.
Douglass, AIP Conf. Proc. No. 4 (AIP, New York, 1972), p. 293; J. Low
Temp. Phys. **6**, 171 (1972). * [15] G. Sparn _et al._, Science
**252**, 1839 (1991).
