# Critical fields of the superconducting fullerene RbCs2C60

V. Buntar

Department of Physics, Parma University, I-43100 Parma, Italy and Atomic
Institute of the Austrian Universities, Schutelstrasse 115, A-1020
Vienna, Austria

M. Ricco

Department of Physics, Parma University, I-43100 Parma, Italy

H. W. Weber

Atomic Institute of the Austrian Universities, Schutelstrasse 115,
A-1020 Vienna, Austria

F. Bolzoni

Istituto MASPEC-CNR, I-43100 Parma, Italy

###### Abstract

The temperature dependence of the upper critical magnetic field H_(c2)
of the superconducting RbCs2C60 fullerene has been obtained. The value
of H_(c2)(0) at zero temperature is estimated to be 17 T and the
coherence length ξ(0) = 4.4 nm. The lower critical field H_(c1) has been
studied using three different methods. The H_(c1)(T) dependence obtained
from the procedures based on the deviation from perfect diamagnetism and
on Bean’s critical-state model has a positive curvature with decreasing
temperature. It is shown from a high-field analysis that this
saturationless dependence does not reflect the intrinsic H_(c1) of the
superconductor. The value of H_(c1)(0) is estimated to be 5.5-8.1 mT and
the penetration depth λ(0) = 300 − 370 nm.

## I Introduction

Fullerene superconductors exhibit strong type-II superconductivity with
a very large region of Shubnikov’s mixed state, and their macroscopic
magnetic properties are very similar to those of the high-T_(c)
oxides.1-3 They are characterized by a large ( ∼ 100 nm) penetration
depth and by a relatively small ( ∼ 1 nm) coherence length. There are
three most important values of the magnetic field which can characterize
the mixed state properties of a type-II superconductor: the lower
critical field H_(c1), at which the magnetic flux starts to penetrate a
sample, the upper critical magnetic field H_(c2), where the transition
from the superconducting to the normal state occurs, and the
thermodynamic critical field H_(c). All of them can be evaluated from
magnetization measurements. The knowledge of these critical fields leads
then to the main characteristic superconducting length scales: the
coherence length ξ and the magnetic field penetration depth λ.

The thermodynamic critical field can be obtained from measurements of
the reversible magnetization curve. However, in most cases the
reversible magnetization is masked by flux pinning effects and,
therefore, is not accessible. While there exist a few measurements of
the reversible magnetization in the cuprate superconductors, the
thermodynamic critical field of fullerenes has not yet been measured.

Regarding the upper and lower critical fields, there is a wide spectrum
of different experimental techniques that can be used to evaluate
H_(c1). However, despite more than seven years of intensive
investigations of H_(c1), first for high-T_(c) superconductors and then
for the fullerenes, the values of the lower critical field and their
temperature dependence are still controversial. This is especially true
for fullerenes, since experimental data available on this new type of
superconductors are scarce and the main superconducting characteristics
of almost all of the fullerene superconductors are unknown.

In this paper we report on a determination of the temperature dependence
of the upper and lower critical fields for superconducting RbCs2C60. The
upper critical field was determined from the intersection between a
linear extrapolation of the magnetization in the superconducting state
and the normal-state base line. The lower critical field was determined
from magnetization measurements using different procedures based on the
first deviation from perfect diamagnetism, Bean’s critical-state model,
and on a high-field analysis of the reversible magnetization.

## II Experiment

Two samples were prepared and examined in our experiments. Sample 1 was
prepared by thermal decomposition of azides:4 stoichiometric amounts of
RbN3, CsN3, and pure C60 were mixed and finely powdered in a mortar. The
pressed powder was slowly heated above the decomposition temperature of
the azides (510-520 degC) under dynamic vacuum. The decomposition was
monitored by measuring the pressure (N2 gas is developed in this
process) and the heating was stopped as soon as it was restored to its
initial value. 13C NMR at room temperature showed the presence of a peak
centered at 177.5 ppm (with reference to tetramathylsilane) with a width
of 7 ppm half width at half maximum. No unreacted C60 (peak at 143 ppm)
was observed. The second sample of the same composition prepared by a
similar procedure was also briefly characterized. Both samples have the
same transition temperature _Tc_ = 33 K, similar (about 40

The magnetic measurements of the first sample were performed with a
high-sensitivity commercial superconducting quantum interference device
(SQUID) magnetometer (Quantum Design) in fields up to 5.5 T and in the
temperature range from 50 to 300 K. The second sample was measured with
two SQUID magnetometers: a low-field magnetometer (Quantum Design) with
a field range up to 1 T and a high-field magnetometer with a field range
up to 8 T. The RbCs2C60 powder of both samples were sealed in a glass
capsule under 1 bar of helium exchange gas. The powder can be
approximated by a set of independent spheres. In this case the
demagnetizing factor n is equal to $\frac{1}{3}$ and the magnetic field
inside the sample is related to the external magnetic field _H_ext by
_H_in = _H_ext/(1 - _n_).

## III Upper critical field

The upper critical magnetic field was determined from the temperature
dependence of the field-cooled (FC) magnetization. The experiment
proceeded as follows. An external magnetic field (0.5 T <= _H_ext <= 5
T) was applied at temperatures above _Tc_. The sample was then cooled
down in _H_ext and the magnetic moment of the sample monitored at fixed
_H_ext with increasing temperature from the superconducting to the
normal state. The magnetization was reversible in the experimental
temperature range 5 K < T < _T_c. The transition temperature was
estimated from the intersection between a linear extrapolation of the
magnetization in the superconducting state and the normal-state base
line. The upper critical field _H_c2, for the temperature T = _Tc_(_H_),
is equal to the applied external magnetic field, _H_c2 = _H_ext. An
example of such a measurement and the evaluation procedure of _H_c2 from
the experimental data for _H_ext = 1 T are shown in Fig. 1. It is clear
that the strong diamagnetic signal, which appears at T = 30 K, is due to
the superconducting transition. A small paramagnetic signal in the
normal state, which increases slightly with decreasing temperature down
to T = _Tc_, indicates the existence of a nonsuperconducting
paramagnetism in our sample. This is also confirmed by measurements of
the hysteresis loops (see Fig. 6). This paramagnetism can be due to some
non-stoichiometric impurities; its evaluation will be discussed in more
detail in Sec. IV.2.

The temperature dependence of the upper critical magnetic field near
_Tc_ is shown in Fig. 2. The uncertainty in determining the transition
temperature was not more than 1 K at any field. From the slope of
_H_c2/_8T_ = -0.8 +-0.2 T/K and using the Werthamer-Helfand-Hohenberg
(WHH) formula [5]H_(c2)(0) = 0.69(δH_(c2)/ 8T)T_(c), one can find for
the upper critical magnetic field at zero temperature _H_c2 = 17 +-1.4
T. The value of the coherence length at zero temperature [_x_(0)] can be
obtained from ξ(0) = (Φ₀/2πμ₀H_(c2)(0))^(1/2) (where Ph0 = h /_2e_ is
the flux quantum). This leads to _x_(0) = 4.4 +- 2 nm. (The linear
Ginzburg-Landau extrapolation gives $H_{c2}^{\rm GL} = 25 + 7.2 _T_{c}$
and _x_(0)${}^{\rm GL} = 3.6 _{- 4}^{+ 2}$ nm.)

It is interesting to note that the upper critical magnetic field for the
RbCs2C60 superconductor obtained in this work is much smaller than that
for K3C60 (Ref. [1]) or Rb3C60 (Refs. [2] and [3]), while the coherence
length is almost twice that obtained for those fullerenes. However, the
value δH_(c2)/δT = −1 T/K, obtained for the Na,N,C60 fullerene
superconductor,6 is very close to that obtained in the present work. An
enhancement of the upper critical field for powdered fullerene
superconductors was discussed by Boebinger _et al._7 and several
explanations were suggested. It was shown8 that the upper field critical
fields might result in part from an orientational disorder between
adjacent C60 molecules, which limits the mean free path (_I_mfp). In the
dirty limit, where the Ginzburg-Landau coherence length _x_GL varies as
_x_GL  (_x_6_I_mfp)1/2, where x0 is the BCS coherence length, the
limitation of the mean free path leads to a decrease of _x_GL and,
therefore, to an increase of the upper critical field.

Figure 1: **Magnetization vs temperature in an applied field** _H_ext =
1 T.

Figure 2: **Upper critical field** _H_c2 vs temperature. The solid line
corresponds to a slope δH/δT = −0.8T/K.

## IV Lower critical field

### Deviation from the linear M(H) behavior

The lower critical magnetic field H_(c1) and hence the penetration depth
λ [provided the coherence length ξ(0) is known from the measurements
described above] can be determined from an experimental magnetization
curve. In this work, the lower critical magnetic field was obtained from
several methods. First, it was determined as the field at which a
significant deviation of the M(H) curve from linearity in the Meissner
state was observed. As an example, Fig. 3 shows the magnetic field
dependence of the magnetization at T = 10 K, obtained by cooling the
specimen from the normal state down to the indicated temperature under
zero external magnetic field and by measuring the magnetization in
increasing fields. We determine H_(c1) as the field where the deviation
from linearity sets in.

### Bean critical-state model

In order to make this procedure more quantitative, it is tempting to
apply Bean’s critical-state model [9] for the entry of vortices into
hysteretic superconductors. According to this theory, the magnetization
is related to the critical current density J_(c) (which is assumed to be
field independent for simplicity), at fields above H_(c1):
(M + H) ∼ (H₂ ² − H_(c1) ²)/J_(c)D), where D is a characteristic length
for the superconducting sample studied. (In our case, for a powder
sample with a grain-size distribution from 0.2 to 3 μm, we expect D to
be of the order of the average grain size,  ∼ 1μm.) This relation holds
in the range H_(c1) < H < H^( *), where H^( *) ∼ J_(c)D is the field at
which the flux penetrates the sample completely. Thus a plot of δM vs
H ² [$H = H_{\rm ext}/(1 - n)$], where δM = M + H_(a) is the deviation
of the observed magnetization from perfect diamagnetic behavior, and in
particular the threshold field of this plot, should give the lower
critical field. Figure 4 shows a typical example of such a plot for our
sample.

### Results and discussion

The temperature dependence of H_(c1) obtained from these two methods is
shown in Fig. 5 by the open symbols. In both cases, an anomalous
saturationless temperature dependence with positive curvature at low
temperatures is obtained. At 5 K the values of H_(c1) are close to 20 mT
and H_(c1) decreases rapidly with increasing temperature to values of
about 6 mT at about 12 K. For T > 12 K, H_(c1) decreases almost linearly
and the slope of H_(c1)(T) is much smaller than at low temperatures. An
extrapolation of this "high"-temperature linear dependence to zero
temperature gives a value of H_(c1)(0) of around 7.5 mT. At the same
time, the "high"-temperature data can be described well by a parabolic
dependence H_(c1)(T)/H_(c1)(0) = 1 − (T/T_(c))² (solid line in Fig. 5),
which leads to H_(c1)(0) = 5.5 mT. The penetration depth λ(0) calculated
from H_(c1) = 5.5 mT with the relation [10]

Figure 5: Lower critical field H_(c1) vs temperature. The open circles
correspond to data obtained from the deviation from perfect
diamagnetism; triangles, data from the analysis based on Bean’s
critical-state mode; closed circles, data from the high-field analysis.
The dashed lines show linear extrapolation of the data obtained from the
first two methods at low ( < 12 K) and high (12 < T < T_(c))
temperatures. The solid line corresponds to
H_(c1)(T) = H_(c1)(0){1 − (T/T_(c))²}, with μ₀H_(c1)(0) = 5.5 mT.

Figure 3: Magnetization vs magnetic field at T = 10 K.

μ₀H_(c1)(0) = (ϕ₀/4πλ²)ln (λ/ξ) is λ(0) = 370 nm.

A similarly anomalous dependence of the lower critical magnetic field
was observed for high-T_(c) superconductors. For instance, it has been
reported for single crystals of YBa2Cu3O7-8 (Refs. 11-13), Bi-2212 (Ref.
14), Tl-2212 (Ref. 15), Pb2Sr2R1-xCa2Cu3O8+y (Ref. 16), ceramics of
(Bi,Pb)-2223 (Ref. 17), and _S/N_ layered superconductors. [18]

There are at least five possible ways to explain this anomalous
behavior. First, the effect could be due to the existence of a second
superconducting phase with lower T_(c) and higher H_(c1). In our
specimen there could be two coexisting superconducting compounds in the
case of sample inhomogeneities. They could be the Rb3C60 and the
Rb2CsC60 compounds with critical temperatures of about 28 and 31 K,
respectively. However, the slope of _M_(_T_) in the Meissner state does
not show any significant changes at these temperatures indicating a
constant shielded volume. Moreover, the upper critical fields for these
compounds are much larger (see, for instance, Ref. 19) and their
influence would be seen in the H_(c2)(T) dependence. The slope
δH_(c2)/δT obtained in this work remains very small, in comparison with
δH_(c2)/δT for the Rb3C60 compounds [19] down to 23 K (see Fig. 2) and
does not exhibit any significant changes. Therefore, we can confidently
conclude that we do not detect any other superconducting phases in our
sample except for RbCs2C60.

The second possibility which could be considered is the existence of
intergranular regions and different types of defects inside the grains.
The similar temperature behavior obtained for single crystals (see
references above) confirms, however, that this is not a property of
granular and ceramic superconductors, making this explanation less
plausible.

In a number of papers, theoretical and experimental results were
presented explaining such a H_(c1)(T) behavior as an intrinsic property
of layered superconductors. [18, 20, 21] For our sample, where the
superconducting fraction is about 40

One further explanation was suggested in Ref. 13, where the authors
explained the positive curvature of H_(c1)(T) by the existence of a
Bean-Livingston surface barrier. [22] The appearance of these barriers
at low temperatures is more likely than at high ones, because the higher
the temperature, the more easily the surface barrier can be overcome by
thermal fluctuations.

Finally, it should be kept in mind that the deviation of the _M_(_H_)
curve from linearity is significantly smaller at low temperatures and
that the determination of such small deviations is already a matter or
resolution of the experimental method. This can lead to much higher
values of "H_(c1)" obtained at low temperatures from magnetization
measurements with highly sensitive SQUID magnetometers. [23]

The last two explanations of the experimental data are most likely. But
whatever the nature of the positive curvature of H_(c1)(T) is, the
anomalous increase of H_(c1) at low temperature does not reflect the
behavior of the intrinsic H_(c1). The "real" H_(c1) at zero temperature
should be much lower than the 20 mT obtained above according to the
high-temperature data.

### High-field analysis

In order to find the real lower critical magnetic field one can use a
high- and intermediate-field analysis, where H_(c1) can be estimated
from the values of the penetration depth λ, the coherence length ξ, and
the Ginzburg-Landau parameter κ. This avoids the influence of the
Bean-Livingston barrier and is more accurate than that based on
low-field measurements, especially in the case of inhomogeneous samples
with a low superconducting fraction. [24]

The key point is the determination of κ and H_(c1) on the basis of data
obtained at high (H ≤ H_(c2)) and intermediate (H_(c1) ≪ H <  ≪ H_(c2))
external magnetic fields. According to the Ginzburg-Landau theory, the
reversible magnetization for H ≤ H_(c2) is given by [25]

$$-M = \frac{H_{c2}(T) - H}{(2\kappa^{2} - 1)\beta_{a}}\;\;,$$

where β_(a) = 1.16. Since κ = λ/ξ, we can estimate λ and H_(c1) from the
reversible _M_(_H_) dependence, provided the coherence length is known
from independent experiments on H_(c2). For H_(c1) < H ≪ H_(c2), [25]

$$-M = \frac{\alpha\Phi_{0}}{8\pi\lambda^{2}(T)}\ln\frac{\beta H_{c2}(T)}{H}\;\;.$$

In our experiments we have measured the magnetization in fields up to
5.5 T at different temperatures up to 30 K, close enough to T_(c). For
our experimental magnetic field window, a reversible region of _M_(_H_)
was found at temperature T > 20 K. Typical _M_(_H_) dependences at T >
20 K are shown in Fig. 6. The reversible region was found at fields
higher than 4 T (for T = 24 K), 3.2 T (_T_ = 25 K), 2.2 T (_T_ = 27 K),
1 T (_T_ = 29 K), and 0.5 T (_T_ = 30 K). For all these temperatures,
$H_{\rm rev}/H_{c2} > 0.4$ (where $H_{\rm rev}$ is the reversibility
field). This means that the reversible region in our experiments occurs
in the high-field regime and Eq. (1) (Ref. 26) should be used. [27]

Figure 6 demonstrates that nonsuperconducting paramagnetism is
significant in our sample and its contribution, M_(p), to the total
measured magnetization, M_(t), should be taken into account when
evaluating the magnetization $M_{\rm sc}$ produced by the persistent
currents. On the other hand, the sample magnetization is related to the
magnetization of a perfect superconductor via the superconducting
fraction _x_: $M_{\rm sc} = xM$. Since M_(p) = χ_(p)H,

M_(t) = xM + χ_(p)H  .

The shielding fraction $x_{\rm sh}$, which is not equal, in general, to
the superconducting one [24, 28] was evaluated for different
temperatures from the slope of the M(H) dependences. Since in a perfect
superconductor M =  − H, the following definition for $x_{\rm sh}$ was
adopted: $x_{\rm sh}\!=\!-dM/8H$. The shielding fraction $x_{\rm sh}(T)$
thus evaluated is around 40

The magnetic field dependence of the superconducting magnetization,

$$M_{\rm sc}=\frac{M_{\rm t}-\chi_{p}H}{x}$$
(4)

[see Eq. (3)] is shown in Fig. 7 for different temperatures. As it
should be, these dependences are linear in the high field (H ≤ H_(c2))
region. The slope is
$\delta M_{\rm sc}/\delta H\!=\!x/[(2\kappa^{2}\!-1)\beta_{a}]$, from
which κ can be evaluated. This results in κ = 65.6, 58, 67.7, 76.6, and
66.3 from the $M_{\rm sc}(H)$ dependences at 24, 25, 27, 29, and 30 K,
respectively. That leads to an average value κ = 67 ± 10,
λ(0) = 300 ± 50 nm, and the lower critical field at zero temperature
μ₀H_(c1)(0) = 8.1 ± 2 mT. This value is close to that (m₀H_(c1) ≃ 7.5
mT) obtained from the linear approximation of the "high" temperature
dependence in Fig. 5. It confirms our proposal that the positive
curvature of H_(c1)(T) does not reflect the intrinsic value of the lower
critical field at low temperatures.

From the values of κ and λ(0) obtained from the linear dependences in
Fig. 7, one can find the values of λ(T) and then H_(c1)(T) using the
two-fluid relation,

λ(T) = λ(0)[1 − (T/T_(c)(0))⁴]^(−1/2) ,
(5)

which gives good agreement with experimental results for other
fullerenes superconductors.[24, 29] The values of H_(c1) obtained in
this way for T = 24, 25, 27, 29, and 30 K are plotted in Fig. 5 (full
circles) and show good agreement with the data obtained from the
low-field analysis at high temperatures.

## V Summary

The temperature dependence of the upper critical magnetic field H_(c2)
and the value of the coherence length ξ at room temperature were
obtained for the superconducting RbCs₂C₆₀ fullerene. The upper critical
field at room temperature is estimated to be H_(c2) = 17 T with a slope
$\delta H/\delta T\!=\!-0.8/\!{\rm K}$. The lower critical magnetic
field was obtained by three different methods. It is shown that two of
them [evaluation of H_(c1) from the point of the first significant
deviation from the linear M(H) dependence and from the Bean
critical-state model] give a saturation-less temperature dependence with
positive curvature at low temperatures and do not reflect the real
intrinsic lower critical field of the superconductor. On the other hand,
the high-field analysis for the determination of H_(c1) gives
significantly smaller values of the lower critical field at ze o
temperature [μ₀H_(c1)(0) = 8.1 mT] and, at the same

Figure 6: Typical M(H) dependences for T > 20 K, which demonstrate the
magnetization reversibility within the field range employed.

Figure 7: Field dependence of the reversible magnetization with the
nonsuperconducting paramagnetism subtracted.

time, shows very good agreement with the other methods at T > 0.5T_(c).
For these temperatures, experimental data obtained by all methods can be
described by a parabolic dependence,
H_(c1)(T)/H_(c1)(0) = 1 − (T/T_(c))², which leads to H_(c1)(0) = 5.5 mT.
The corresponding values of the penetration depth λ(0) are λ(0) = 300 nm
and λ(0) = 370 nm.

## References

* [1] K. Holczer, O. Klein, G. Gruner, J. D. Thompson, F. Diederich, and
R. L. Whetten, Phys. Rev. Lett. **67**, 271 (1991). * [2] C. Politis, V.
Buntar, W. Krauss, and A. Gurevich, Europhys. Lett. **17**, 175
(1992). * [3] G. Sparn, J. D. Thompson, R. L. Whetten, S.-M. Huang, R.
B. Kaner, F. Diederich, G. Gruner, and K. Holczer, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**68**, 1228 (1992). * [4] F. Bensebaa, B. Xiang, and L. Kevan, J. Phys.
Chem. **96**, 6118 (1992). * [5] N. R. Werthamer, E. Helfand, and P. C.
Hohenberg, Phys. Rev. **147**, 295 (1966). * [6] I. I. Khairullin, K.
Imada, K. Yakushi, and H. Inokuchi, Physica C **231**, 26 (1994). * [7]
G. S. Boebinger, T. T. M. Palstra, A. Rassner, M. J. Rosseinsky, and D.
M. Murphy, Phys. Rev. B **46**, 5876 (1992). * [8] M. P. Gelfand and J.
P. Lu, Phys. Rev. Lett. **68**, 1050 (1992). * [9] C. P. Bean, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **8**, 250 (1962). * [10] M. Tinkham, _Introduction to
Superconductivity_ (McGraw-Hill, New York, 1975). * [11] T. Ishii and T.
Yamada, Physica C **159**, 483 (1989). * [12] H. Adrian, W. Assumus, A.
Hohr, J. Kowalewski, H. Spille, and F. Steglich, Physica C **162-164**,
329 (1989). * [13] M. W. McElfresh, Y. Yeshurun, A. P. Malozemoff, and
F. Hotzberg, Physica A **168**, 308 (1990). * [14] B. Batlogg, T. T. M.
Palstra, L. F. Schneemeyer, R. B. van Dover, and A. R. Cava, Physica C
**153-155**, 1062 (1988). * [15] V. N. Kopylov, A. E. Koshelev, I. F.
Schegolev, and T. G. Togonidze, Physica C **170**, 291 (1990). * [16] V.
V. Metlushko, G. Guntherodt, V. V. Moschalkov, Y. Bruynseraede, and M.
M. Lukina, Phys. Rev. B **47**, 8212 (1993). * [17] R. Job and M.
Rosenberg, Physica C **172**, 391 (1991). * [18] V. M. Krasnov, V. A.
Oboznov, and V. V. Ryazanov, Physica C **196**, 335 (1992). * [19] C.
Politis, V. Buntar, and V. P. Seminozhenko, Int. J. Mod. Phys. B **7**,
2163 (1993). * [20] T. Koyama, N. Takezawa, and M. Tachiki, Physica C
**168**, 69 (1990). * [21] V. M. Krasnov, Physica C **190**, 357
(1992). * [22] C. P. Bean and J. D. Livingston, Phys. Rev. Lett. **12**,
14 (1964). * [23] C. Bohmer (private communication). * [24] C. Politis,
A. I. Sokolov, and V. Buntar, Phys. Rev. B **6**, 351 (1992). * [25] A.
A. Abrikosov, Zh. Eksp Teor. Fiz. **32**, 1442 (1957) [Sov. Phys. JETP
**5**, 1174 (1957)]. * [26] Z. Hao and J. R. Chem. Phys. Rev. Lett.
**67**, 2371 (1991). * [27] In order to check this supposition, we also
analyzed our data using the logarithmic equation [Eq. (2)]. The data
obtained at 24 and 25 K also give good agreement with Eq. (2) and lead
to similar values for the penetration depth at zero temperature (λ ≃ 300
nm), while the data obtained at 29 and 30 K do not fit the logarithmic
behavior. * [28] A. I. Sokolov, Yu. A. Kuraev, and E. B. Sonin, Physica
C **212**, 19 (1993). * [29] Y. J. Uemura, A. Keren, L. P. Le, G. M.
Luke, B. J. Sterlieb, W. D. Wu, J. H. Brewer, and K. Holczer, Nature
**325**, 605 (1991).
