Nonlinear temperature dependence of the normal-state resistivity in
YBa₂Cu₄O₈ ± δ films

S. Martin, M. Gurvitch, C. E. Rice, A. F. Hebard, P. L. Gammel, R. M.
Fleming, and A. T. Fiory

AT&T Bell Laboratories, Murray Hill, New Jersey 07974

###### Abstract

The _ab_-plane resistivity of YBa₂Cu₄O₈ ± δ (1:2:4) films is measured
from 68 to 600 K and found to be a nonlinear function of temperature in
contrast to that of YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) (1:2:3) films. The nonlinearity can
be understood in terms of a Bloch-Gruneisen-type behavior with a
transport Debye temperature of Θ_(D)^(*) = 500 K, as compared to
Θ_(D)^(*) = 200 K for 1:2:3. This difference is attributed to the larger
number of charge carriers per unit cell in 1:2:4.

A distinct feature of the normal state of the high-T_(c) superconductors
is the linear increase in the resistivity over a large temperature
range.[1]⁻[3] In YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) (1:2:3) a deviation from linearity was
measured only for T ∼ 600 K due to loss of oxygen.[1] Several novel
types of transport mechanisms have been proposed to account for the
observed linear behavior.[4]⁻[6] We present here experimental data which
suggest that the classical Bloch-Gruneisen (BG) theory of metallic
conduction is quite adequate to describe the normal-state _ab_-plane
resistivity. The BG model which treats scattering of electrons by
phonons predicts a nonlinear increase of the resistivity for T smaller
than a characteristic temperature T^(•) and linear resistivity for T >
T^(•). An examination of the BG dependence shows that T^(•) = ηΘ_(D),
where Θ_(D) is the Debye temperature and η ∼ 1-2.

A Θ_(D) = 360 K has been determined from specific-heat measurements on
1:2:3 bulk samples,[7] indicating that nonlinear temperature dependence
should be readily seen in 1:2:3 above T_(c). However, following
Songheimer’s argument for bismuth,[8] we suggest that the relevant
temperature is an effective transport Debye temperature Θ_(D)^(*) =
(2k_(F)/G) ηΘ_(D); the latter can be substantially smaller than T^(•) if
the Fermi wave vector k_(F) is sufficiently small compared to the
reciprocal-lattice vector G. Consequently, the high superconducting
transition temperature of 1:2:3 would make it difficult to observe the
nonlinear behavior predicted by BG theory.

The recently discovered c = 27-A phase of Y-Ba-Cu-O with the
stoichiometric composition YBa₂Cu₄O_(8 + δ) (1:2:4) has been found to
have a larger number of carriers per unit cell than the 1:2:3
phase.[9]⁻[12] This implies a larger Θ_(D)^(*) and hence the possibility
of an observable nonlinear BG-type resistivity behavior. Kapitulnik and
co-workers[13] have discussed the relevance of the BG theory for 1:2:4
films and reported a negative intercept of the zero-temperature
resistivity. We present here measurements performed on high-quality
1:2:4 films from T_(c) up to 600 K which show that nonlinear temperature
dependence for 1:2:4 is consistent with a fit to BG theory using
Θ_(D)^(*) = 500 K. The linear temperature dependence for 1:2:3 is
consistent with a corresponding Θ_(D)^(*) = 200 K. The measurements on
1:2:4 were extended down to 68 K by suppressing T_(c) with a magnetic
field perpendicular to the _ab_ basal plane. The low-temperature results
further support the fit to BG theory obtained from the high-temperature
data within experimental error (∼ 5

The films (thickness 2000-3000 A) were grown epitaxially on
(100)-oriented SrTiO₃ substrates using a vacuum deposition system with
two electron guns and two thermal evaporation sources, as described
elsewhere.[14] The quality of the films was found to be good as
evidenced by large critical current densities of J_(c) = 1 x 10⁵ A/cm²
(1:2:4) and J_(c) = 3 x 10⁶ A/cm² (1:2:3) at 77 K. X-ray-diffraction
analysis confirmed a single-phase YBa₂Cu₄O₈ ± δ with an impurity level
of less than ∼ 3

Figure 1(a) shows the measured resistivities and Fig. 1(b) shows the
corresponding temperature derivatives of a 1:2:4 (squares) and a 1:2:3
film (triangles). The superconducting transitions (R = 0) occur at T_(c)
= 82 K (1:2:4) and T_(c) = 91.5 K (1:2:3), with 10-90

We note in Fig. 1(b) an anomalous change in slope for 1:2:4 in the
temperature region around T = 250 K. This feature has been previously
observed both in resistivity and in Hall-effect measurements[12]^(,)[15]
and is suggestive of a phase transition as reported earlier for
mixed-phase ceramic samples by several groups.[16]^(,)[17] However, we
performed x-ray scattering as a function of temperature and have not
found any structural evidence of a phase transition. The linear
extrapolation of the low-temperature resistivity to T = 0 leads to a
negative intercept, which was also reported
previously.[12]^(,)[15]^(,)[18] We find that the negative intercept
results from the BG temperature dependence for sufficiently small
residual resistivities.

The semiclassical transport theory leads to the Drude formula for the
resistivity $\rho_{\rm BG}$ = m_(F)/ne²Λ, where the mean free path Λ can
be calculated assuming electron-phonon N processes:[19]1/Λ
(T⁵/Θ_(D)^(*))F(Θ_(D)^(*)/T). The function F is evaluated numerically
and exhibits a simple asymptotic behavior. For T ≪Θ_(D)^(*), F becomes
constant and at high temperatures F → (Θ_(D)^(•)/T)⁴. The result is an
initial T⁵ increase of the resistivity and a turnover into linear
behavior at sufficiently high temperatures. In order to compare the data
with theory, we introduce a residual resistivity ρ₀ = ρ(T = 0) and a
saturation resistivity ρ_(s) = ρ(T → ∞). A temperature-dependent
resistivity of the form ρ = [1/(αρ_(BG) + ρ₀) + 1/ρ_(s)]⁻¹, where α is a
scaling factor and ρ_(BG) is the BG formula given above, is then fit to
the data.

We obtain consistent fits [shown as solid lines in Fig. 1(a)], for 1:2:4
(1:2:3) with α = 27 (10.5), ρ₀ = 14 (36) μΩ cm, ρ_(s) = 0.06 (∞) Ω cm,
and Θ_(D)^(•) = 500 K (200 K). The deviations of the data from the BG
curves are less than 2

The temperature Θ_(D)^(•), where nonlinear BG resistivity crosses over
to an essentially linear behavior, can be estimated as follows.[8] At
the thermodynamic Debye temperature Θ_(D), the maximum phonon wave
vector q_(max) is equal to half the reciprocal-lattice vector G/2. The
dispersion relation for acoustic phonons implies a linear temperature
dependence q ∝ T resulting in q = (G/2)(T/Θ_(D)). At the crossover
temperature Θ_(D)^(•), the thermally excited phonons should have wave
vectors large enough to randomize the electron momentum in all
directions of k space, stated as q(T = Θ_(D)^(•)) = ηk_(F) with
η → 1 − 2, which yields Θ_(D)^(•) = (2k_(F)/G) ηΘ_(D).

For a simple cubic monovalent metal, kβ^(D) = (3π²a⁻³)^(1/3) ≃ π/a, and
we get Θ_(D)^(•) = ηΘ_(D) which is the crossover point T^(•) often
observed experimentally. However, in 1:2:3 the reduction factor could be
smaller than 1 because of a small Fermi surface. Assuming conduction in
the ab-planes due to one carrier per unit cell, we obtain a 2D Fermi
wave vector kβ^(D) = 3 × 10⁷ cm ⁻¹. Taking G = 1.6 × 10⁸ cm ⁻¹ from
structural data [20] we estimate Θ_(D)^(•)/Θ_(D) = 0.37η. Specific-heat
measurements on 1:2:3 bulk samples yield a thermodynamic Θ_(D) = 360 K
which combined with our BG fit leads to a reduction factor of
Θ_(D)^(•)/Θ_(D) = 0.55, in reasonable agreement with the above estimate.

In order to further test the validity of the BG fit to the 1:2:4 data,
we applied a magnetic field perpendicular to the film plane, depressing
the superconducting transition, and measured the resistivity down to 68
K. Fields varying from 1 to 13 T were applied. The normal-state
resistivity was obtained by extrapolating (1/ρ) vs (1/H) for (1/H)  → 0,
a procedure which eliminates the contribution from
magnetoresistance.[21] The results are plotted in an expanded scale in
Fig. 2 with the data as symbols (▿) and the BG fit as a solid line. We
see here clearly an onset of curvature in the data which can be
satisfactorily described by the nonlinear decrease of the BG resistivity
at low temperatures. This behavior has also been found for 1:2:3 by
Tajima _et al._,[22] where higher magnetic fields had to be applied in
order to obtain a similar T_(c) suppression.

Although specific-heat measurements have not yet been performed on 1:2:4
due to lack of bulk material, we expect the thermodynamic Debye
temperature to be close to the value obtained for 1:2:3. Hall-effect
measurements [15] on 1:2:4 phase rich films have shown that the carrier
concentration n is about 4 times larger than in 1:2:3. From
kβ^(D) ∝ n^(1/2) we estimate Θ_(D)^(•) ∼ 400 K for 1:2:4, which is
somewhat smaller than the value obtained from the fit to the BG theory.
This discrepancy can be attributed to the 250-K anomaly causing an
increased curvature of the measured resistivity and hence leading to a
larger estimate of Θ_(D)^(•).

Figure 2: Temperature dependence of resistivity of the 1:2:4 phase
measured down to 68 K (▿) by suppression of T_(c) in the presence of a
magnetic field (H_(max) = 13 T) perpendicular to the ab plane. For
comparison, the resistivity at zero field (▿) and the BG fit (solid
line) are shown.

Figure 1: (a) Measured temperature dependence of the ab-plane
resistivity of 1:2:3 (△) and 1:2:4 (▿) phases of Y-Ba-Cu-O. The solid
lines are BG fits with effective Debye temperatures Θ_(D)^(•) = 200 K
for 1:2:3 and Θ_(D)^(•) = 500 K for 1:2:4. (b) Corresponding temperature
derivatives of the resistivity.

We note that the understanding of the normal-state behavior of ρ(T)
should have serious implications for those mechanisms of
superconductivity which treat high-T_(c) oxides as novel,
non-Fermi-liquid systems. For example, in the resonating-valence-bond
(RVB) theory,[4] normal-state resistivity comes from the scattering of
holons by spinons and was predicted to be either linear in T or to have
a T^(3/2) dependence.[23] We attempted fits of the 1:2:4 data to a
power-law temperature dependence and found that an exponent ∼1.1
reproduces the data reasonably well (≈ 2

We further note that linearity of the ρ(T) at high temperatures can be
used to estimate an upper bound on the electron-phonon coupling constant
λ.[1] It is interesting to do this for the 1:2:4 data, especially since
the best fit has been obtained with a small amount of saturation, as
discussed above. Using Eq. (5) of Ref. 1, we find a ratio of the mean
free path to the interatomic distance of ∼55 at 600 K as compared to a
value of ∼ 5 taken as a lower bound in Ref. 1. As a result we obtain an
order of magnitude smaller λ than the value of 0.3 estimated for 1:2:3.
Clearly this value is too small to explain the high T_(c) = 82 K in
agreement with the similar estimate for 1:2:3 samples.[1]

In conclusion, resistivity measurements on high-quality superconducting
films of 1:2:4 show that classical BG theory of metallic conduction can
account for the observed nonlinearity with an effective Θ_(D)^(•) = 500
K. In 1:2:3 films the linear temperature dependence is indicative of a
reduced Θ_(D)^(•) = 200 K because of the smaller number of carriers per
unit cell. Measurements of the resistivity of 1:2:4 down to 68 K in the
presence of a magnetic field confirm the BG-type behavior.

We acknowledge many useful discussions with our colleagues, J. Graebner,
A. F. J. Levi, M. L. Mandich, P. Marsh, A. P. Ramirez, and H. L.
Stormer. One of us (S.M.) acknowledges partial support by the Alexander
von Humboldt Foundation, West Germany.

## References

* [1] M. Gurvitch and A. T. Fiory, Phys. Rev. Lett. **59**, 1337
(1987). * [2] S. W. Tozer _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **59**, 1768
(1987). * [3] S. Martin _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **60**, 2194
(1988). * [4] P. W. Anderson and Z. Zou, Phys. Rev. Lett. **60**, 132
(1988). * [5] D. Y. Xing _et al._, Solid State Commun. **65**, 1319
(1988). * [6] G. M. Carneiro (unpublished). * [7] A. P. Ramirez _et
al._, Mater. Res. Soc. Symp. Proc. **99**, 459 (1988). * [8] E. H.
Sondheimer, Proc. Phys. Soc. **7A**, 37 (1952). * [9] A. F. Marshall _et
al._, Phys. Rev. B **37**, 9353 (1988). * [10] J. Kwo _et al._, Appl.
Phys. Lett. **52**, 1625 (1988). * [11] K. Char _et al._, Phys. Rev. B
**38**, 834 (1988). * [12] M. L. Mandich _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **38**,
5031 (1988). * [13] A. Kapitulnik and K. Char, Int. J. Mod. Phys. **1**,
1267 (1988); A. Kapitulnik, Physica C **153-155**, 520 (1988). * [14] A.
F. J. Levi _et al._, J. Cryst. Growth **91**, 386 (1988). * [15] H. L.
Stormer _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **38**, 2472 (1988). * [16] G. Cannelli
_et al._, Europhys. Lett. **6**, 271 (1988). * [17] K. Fossheim, O. M.
Nes, T. Legredt, C. N. W. Darlington, D. A. O’Connor, and C. E. Gough
(unpublished). * [18] A. Kapitulnik _et al._, Int. J. Mod. Phys. B
**1**, 779 (1987). * [19] J. M. Ziman, _Principles of the Theory of
Solids_ (Cambridge Univ. Press, Cambridge, 1972), p. 225. * [20] P.
Marsh _et al._, Nature (London) **334**, 141 (1988). * [21] Y. B. Kim
and M. J. Stephen, in _Superconductivity_, edited by R. D. Parks
(Dekker, New York, 1969), p. 1107. * [22] Y. Tajima _et al._ , Phys.
Rev. B **37**, 7956 (1988). * [23] C. Kallin and A. J. Berlinsky, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **60**, 2556 (1988).
