# Upper critical field of Ba_(1 − x)K_(x)BiO₃ single crystals

M. Affronte, J. Marcus, and C. Escribe-Filippini

Laboratoire d’Etudes des Proprietes Electroniques des Solides, Centre
National de la Recherche Scientifique, Bothe Postale 166, 38042
Grenoble, France

A. Sulpice

Centre de Recherches sur les Tres Basses Temperatures, Centre National
de la Recherche Scientifique, Bothe Postale 166, 38042 Grenoble, France

H. Rakoto, J. M. Broto, J. C. Ousset, and S. Askenazy

Laboratoire de Physique des Solides et Service National des Champs
Pulses, 31077 Toulouse, France

A. G. M. Jansen

High Magnetic Field Laboratory, Max-Planck-Institut fur
Festkorforschung, Bothe Postale 166, 38042 Grenoble, France

###### Abstract

We report an extensive study on the temperature (_T_) dependence of the
upper critical field H_(c2) on Ba_(1 − x)K_(x)BiO₃ single crystals. The
H_(c2)(T) curve shows a reproducible upward curvature at ∼22 K. This can
be due to the presence of two superconducting phases, one with T_(c)∼30
K and low H_(c2)({dH_(c2)/dT}_(T_(c))∼0.5 T/K) and another one with
T_(c)∼ 25 K and higher H_(c2)({dH_(c2)/dT}_(T_(c))∼1.1 T/K). However, we
find that H_(c2) may rise up to 32 T at 1.8 K. It turns out that the
reduced critical field h_(c2)=H_(c2)/[T_(c)(dH_(c2)/dT)_(T_(c))] is ≥1
at low temperatures for both the 30- and 25-K phases, i.e., much higher
than what is expected for a conventional superconductor. We compare the
low-temperature h_(c2) data with calculations recently performed by
Marsiglio and Carbotte in the framework of an extended
Werthamer-Helfand-Hohenberg theory.

## Introduction

The Werthamer-Helfand-Hohenberg [1] (WHH) theory provides a successful
description of the upper critical field temperature dependence H_(c2)(T)
for most of conventional superconductors. Nevertheless there are several
superconductors that show an upward curvature of H_(c2)(T) that is not
consistent with the WHH theory. In some cases this upturn is due to the
presence of magnetic impurities, [2] in others to the layered material
structure. [3] Schossmann and Schachinger [4] have recently extended the
WHH theory including the full electron-phonon interaction. Marsiglio and
Carbotte [5] have found that in the case of large
T_(c)/$\omega_{\rm ln}$ ratio, where $\omega_{\rm ln}$ is a
characteristic phonon frequency, the H_(c2)(T) curve may actually show
an upward curvature. According to this model, the reduced critical field
h_(c2)=H_(c2)/[T_(c)(dH_(c2)/dT)_(T_(c))] at zero temperature can be
larger than one even in the case of isotropic and nonmagnetic
superconductors. This model, however, has been tested only in very few
real cases.

Ba_(1 − x)K_(x)BiO₃ is a cubic and nonmagnetic material and it has the
highest T_(c) (32 K) among the copper-free superconductors. These
features make this material a potential candidate to test the extended
WHH theory. It is generally accepted that the electron-phonon coupling
plays an important role in this material. However, it is not clear so
far whether and how the electron-phonon coupling can account for such
relatively high T_(c). Early tunneling data [6]⁻8 gave a 2D/k_(B)T_(c)
ratio between 3.5 and 3.9 that suggests a moderate electron-phonon
coupling (λ∼1). Recent tunneling experiments [9]^(,)[10] gave
2D/k_(B)T_(c)∼4.2. This is the same value found on Nb₃Sn that has λ∼1.8.
It is interesting to analyze different electronic properties in order to
see whether Ba_(1 − x)K_(x)BiO₃ can be actually considered a
conventional weakly coupled superconductor or not.

The upper critical field was measured in Ba_(1 − x)K_(x)BiO₃ close to
T_(c) by several groups. [11]⁻[14] These experiments show a quite small
initial slope of the H_(c2) temperature dependence
(dH_(c2)/dT)_(T_(c))=0.5 T/K. By assuming a conventional H_(c2)(T)
behavior a small H_(c2)(0) was predicted for this material (∼15 T).
However, in some experiments [11] an anomalous upward curvature of the
H_(c2) temperature dependence H_(c2)(T) was observed that reveals a
H_(c2) enhancement at low temperatures. No further experiment that
extends H_(c2) measurements to lower temperatures has been performed so
far.

In this work we present an extensive study on the upper critical field
on Ba_(1 − x)K_(x)BiO₃ single crystals. We first analyze several
structural and physical properties of Ba_(1 − x)K_(x)BiO₃ crystals in
order to provide information on the sample quality. Crystals used in our
experiments were grown by two different methods and they have different
quality. However, the presence of microdomains of different phases seems
to be a general problem of Ba_(1 − x)K_(x)BiO₃ that may affect several
physical properties. Samples used in this work are macroscopically
single phase. Yet, they have quite different normal-state transport
properties than can be ascribed to the presence of microdomains with
different physical properties. We subsequently study the _H__e_2
temperature dependence down to 1.8 K in magnetic fields up to 35 T. We
found an unconventional temperature dependence of the upper critical
field that is, however, well reproducible. We discuss this anomalous
behavior on the basis of the characterization done on our crystals. We
finally compare the reduced critical field _h__e_2(0) that we evaluate
from our measurements with calculations of Marsiglio and Carbotte.5

## Sample preparation and characterization

Ba1-_x_K_xBiO3 single crystals used in these experiments were grown by
two different methods: flux technique (samples _C_) and electrochemical
crystallization (samples A, B, D, E, and _F_). Samples D, E, and F come
from the same batch and we anticipate that they have very similar
physical properties. The detailed procedure used for the electrochemical
crystallization is reported in Ref. 15. The starting mixture used for
the flux growth was KOH, Bi2O3, Ba(OH)28OH2 in 15:1:2 molar ratio. This
mixture was heated at 430 degC in a ZrO2 crucible.

X-ray-diffraction patterns were taken by a Gandolfi camera. Crystals
show a single-phase cubic structure. The width of the x-ray peaks is
sharper for crystals D, E, and F than for the other crystals studied.
X-ray-spectra refinement gives a lattice parameter of 4.292 +- 0.001 A
with no appreciable differences from sample to sample. According to the
relationship between potassium concentration and lattice parameter given
in Ref. 16 we evaluated that our crystals have an average potassium
content x = 0.36. Precession x-ray diffraction shows a mosaic texture of
our crystals. In some case it was possible to visualize small
misoriented cubes on one side of the main crystal.

The stoichiometric profile was studied by microprobe analysis on several
crystals. This analysis was performed on deeply polished surfaces in
order to measure the internal stoichiometry. In early batches we often
found a gradient of the potassium concentration within the crystals.15
However, measurements performed on the last series of crystals, from
which samples D, E, and F were taken, show that potassium concentration
can be considered macroscopically homogeneous within these samples.

Crystals have typical dimensions of 0.4 x 0.4 x 0.4 mm3 and have dark
blue color. Two crystals (_E_ and _F_) were polished in order to reduce
their thickness down to   60 _m_m.

All crystals are superconducting as grown, i.e., without further heat
treatment. Magnetization curves measured in a static field of 10 Oe show
the main transition around 30 K. In Fig. 1 we report two characteristic
curves measured on crystal A and D. Sample A shows a 10 K broad
transition suggesting the presence of slightly different superconducting
phases with _T__c_’s between 20 and 30 K. Sample D has one sharp
transition at   30 K and a small step at   25 K. This indicates that
there are two phases in this crystal, one with T_(c)   30 K and another
one with T_(c)   25 K. It is not clear, however whether such a 25-K
transition is due to microdomains spread all over the crystal or to a
well localized inclusion. Note that there is no evidence of phases with
lower T_(c). These results are systematically confirmed by ac
susceptibility measurements that we performed on a large number of
single crystals. The magnetization value taken during zero-field cooling
is generally 100

## Experimental techniques

Four contacts in a van der Pauw configuration were attached on the (100)
surface with silver paint. Contacts were annealed at 500 degC for 12 h
in oxygen in order to reduce the contact resistance down to   0.5 O.
This heat treatment did not change the superconducting transition as
measured by ac susceptibility. Resistivity and Hall coefficient were
evaluated by using standard van der

Figure 1: Zero-field-cooled (circles) and field-cooled (squares) dc
magnetization curves measured on Ba1-_x_K_xBiO3 single crystals. Curves
reported in (a) (b) were measured on sample A and D, respectively. The
arrow in (b) shows a second transition occurring at 25 K.

Pauw technique and Montgomery correction factors.

Resistivity, Hall effect, and resistive transition in magnetic field up
to 6 T were measured in a standard He flow cryostat inserted in a
superconducting coil. Hall measurements were performed by reversing the
magnetic field for each temperature.

High magnetic-field measurements were carried out in two laboratories:
20-T Bitter magnet at the High Magnetic Field Laboratory in Grenoble and
pulse magnetic fields up to 35 T at the Service National des Champs
Pulses in Toulouse.

For measurements in pulsed magnetic field, resistive transitions were
measured by an ac technique (100 kHz) with a selective amplifier and a
digital storage triggered by the magnetic field. The increasing and
decreasing times of the pulsed magnetic field were 70 and 800 ms,
respectively. The resistive signal was recorded during both periods in
order to avoid spurious effects such as temperature drift or transient
effects. No hysteresis was observed.

In one experiment we applied magnetic field both parallelly and
perpendicularly to the crystal plane containing the current. Except for
little changes in the shape of the transition, the onset and the foot of
the transition are essentially the same for the two magnetic-field
orientations. Afterwards we took most of the resistive transitions with
the magnetic field within the plane containing the current.

Hall effect and resistive transitions in magnetic fields were measured
with currents of typically 1 to 4 mA corresponding to a current density
of a few A/cm². No essential changes were observed by decreasing the
current by one order of magnitude.

## 6 Resistivity and Hall Effect

Ba1-xKxBiO3 crystals generally have quite different electronic
properties. In Fig. 2 we report the normal-state resistivity of four
crystals. Samples D, E, and F show the same behavior, this is why in
Fig. 2 we report for simplicity the resistivity of only one of these. We
note that in Fig. 2 the resistivity of sample D is multiplied by a
factor of 10 in order to show it in a proper scale. In Table 1 we report
the resistivity r values measured at room temperature and at 40 K, i.e.,
slightly above the superconducting transition. The room-temperature
resistivity _r_(270 K) may range between  200-3200 _m_l m. Samples with
the lowest _r_(270 K) show a metallic temperature dependence of r and
they have residual resistivity down to 70 _m_l m cm. Sample B and C,
which have higher _r_(270 K), exhibit a bump in the _r_(_T_) curve. At
room temperature the resistivity of sample B shows a semiconducting
behavior, i.e., the resistivity increases as the temperature decreases.
This variety of behavior seems to be typical of this compound and it can
be interpreted by a two-component model as was recently proposed by
Hellman and Hartford.17 They showed that the _r_(_T_) of several
Ba1-xKxBiO3 thin films can be fitted assuming two resistive
contributions, one metallic and another one semiconductorlike. The
latter reveals the presence of domains with different potassium and/or
oxygen concentration. As macroscopic techniques fail in detecting two
different phases, this separation occurs on a microscopic scale and
different domains should be intimately mixed. Our data are essentially
consistent with this model. However, crystals D, E, and F have _r_(270
K) two times smaller than the most metallic sample reported by Hellman
and Hartford and their resistive ratio is _r_(270 K)/_r_(40 K) 2.6.
These features suggest that the semiconducting component is negligible
in crystals D, E, and F. The _r_(_T_) of these crystals can be fitted by
the expression of a purely metallic component:17

$$\begin{array}{l} {\rho_{m}(T) = \rho_{0} + \alpha_{m}\,\left\lfloor {T_{m1} - T_{m2}} \right.} \\ {\left. {\,  metallic component dominates and the Hall coefficient is essentially temperature independent.[17] However in the most metallic samples (_D_, \(E\), and _F_) we found that the Hall coefficient is temperature independent. This confirms that the semiconducting component is not active in these crystals, consistently with the resistivity behavior. A temperature-independent Hall coefficient is quite interesting as compared to the anomalous temperature dependence observed on most of the high-\(T_{c}\) superconducting oxides. Hall data can be combined with resistivity in order to get the cotangent of the Hall angle cot\(\Theta_{H}\). For some cuprates it was found that cot\(\Theta_{H}\) has a quadratic temperature dependence. This was ascribed to the presence of exotic spin excitations.[18] However it was shown that it can also be interpreted within the framework of the Fermi-liquid theory by assuming a nonspherical Fermi surface.[19, 20] Although this controversy is still quite open, it is reassuring to find that a cubic and nonmagnetic perovskite, such as Ba\({}_{1-x}\)K\({}_{x}\)BiO\({}_{3}\), behaves like an ordinary metal.

Electronic band calculations performed by Hamada _et al.[21]_ showed that only one band is present at the Fermi surface. Assuming a simple Drude model[2] we can estimate some characteristic electronic properties of this compound that we summarize in Table 2. Note that the characteristic quantities are calculated assuming the presence of only the homogeneous metallic phase.

Briefly, we conclude from the set of data presented so far that our crystals can be considered macroscopically homogeneous and they contain a majority phase with \(T_{c}\)\(\sim\)30 K. The analysis of normal-state transport properties shows, however, that crystals \(A\), \(B\), and \(C\) contain microdomains of a semiconducting phase. This phase seems to be not present on crystals \(D\), \(E\), and \(F\). Furthermore, based on susceptibility measurements performed on a large number of crystals, we suspect that our crystals may contain microdomains of a second superconducting phase with \(T_{c}\)\(\sim\)25 K. According to the phase diagram reported by Pei _et al.[16]_ the 30-K phase is Ba\({}_{0.65}\)K\({}_{0.35}\)BiO\({}_{3}\), while the semiconducting and the 25-K phases should be, respectively, poorer and richer in potassium.

## Measurements in high magnetic fields

One of the main features of the normal-state resistivity shown in Fig. 2 is the fact that it saturates at low temperature. Such behavior is not observed in most of the superconducting oxides. In order to further investigate this point we measure the low-temperature resistivity of one sample in a static field of 20 T. The result is reported in Fig. 4 and it can be compared with data taken in zero field. Notice that above 30 K the magnetoresistance at 20 T is very small and it cannot be measured with our experimental accuracy. Therefore the two curves, at zero and 20 T, overlap between 30 and 40 K. Below \(T_{c}\) the curve taken in magnetic field extends well the normal-state behavior.

In Fig. 5 we report some resistive transitions taken in quasistatic magnetic fields up to 20 T. Similar curves were obtained in pulsed magnetic fields and they are reported in Ref. 23. There are two main features worth mentioning: Transitions are very sharp close to \(\sim\)30 K. As the temperature decreases they are bodily shifted towards higher fields and they slightly broaden. This behavior is very similar to that shown by conventional superconductors and it is quite different to what is observed on most of the high-\(T_{c}\) superconducting oxides. These exhibit very broad transitions in magnetic field. Another important feature of the curves reported in Fig. 5 is the fact that the resistance saturates for high enough magnetic-field strength. All the curves saturate to the same value. This is not surprising because, as we have shown before, the normal-state resistivity is temperature independent below \(\sim\)50 K.

The huge broadening of the resistive transition ob

Figure 3: Temperature dependence of the Hall coefficient measured on crystals \(A\), \(B\), \(C\) (data from Ref. 33), and \(F\).

  served in high-\(T_{c}\) superconductors has been discussed by several authors.[24]\({}^{-}\)[26] It is generally accepted that the foot of the transition is determined by a (flux-creep) thermally activated process. High-\(T_{c}\) superconductors are characterized by very low pinning energies \(U_{0}\) (\(\sim\)0.1 eV) and high \(T_{c}\) (\(\sim\)90 K). This implies that the \(U_{0}/k_{B}T_{c}\) ratio is particularly small (\(\sim\)10) and therefore thermally activated phenomena are particularly important in these materials. Malozemoff _et al._[25] pointed out an important consequence of this fact. They argued that, in the case of small \(U_{0}/k_{B}T\), transport measurements determine the irreversibility line rather than the thermodynamic critical field \(H_{c2}\). Magnetic measurements[14] have shown the presence of an irreversibility line which lies below the \(H_{c2}\) curve also in the case of Ba\({}_{1-x}\)K\({}_{x}\)BiO\({}_{3}\). So one may wonder whether resistivity measurements are a good method to determine \(H_{c2}\) for Ba\({}_{1-x}\)K\({}_{x}\)BiO\({}_{3}\). Seidler _et al._[14] have found by magnetization measurements the characteristic pinning energy \(U_{0}\) = 0.26 eV in Ba\({}_{1-x}\)K\({}_{x}\)BiO\({}_{3}\) single crystals. By plotting the foot of the resistive transition (10\({}^{-}\)6\(<\)\(\rho/\rho_{0}\)\(<\) 10\({}^{-}\)3) in magnetic field in an Arrhenius plot, as suggested by Palstra _et al._[27], we have also evaluated the pinning energy. Preliminary results give a temperature- and field-dependent \(U\) whose value is somewhat higher than that found by Seidler _et al._[14] At 2.5

\begin{table}
\begin{tabular}{c c c} \hline \hline  Resistivity & \(\rho(270\) K) & 200 \(\mu\)m\(\Omega\) cm \\  & \(\rho(40\) K) & 80 \(\mu\)\(\Omega\) cm \\ Resistivity Slope & \(\alpha(250\) K\()=\(d\rho/dT)\) & 0.6 \(\mu\)\(\Omega\) cm/K \\ Hall coefficient & \(K_{H}\) & 0.6\(\times\)10\({}^{-9}\) m\({}^{3}\)/C \\ \hline Hall number & \(n_{H}\) = 1/\(eR_{H}\) & 1.04\(\times\)10\({}^{22}\) cm\({}^{-3}\) \\ Unit cell volume & \(\nu\) & 78.4 Å\({}^{3}\) \\ Electron density per & & \\ unit cell & \(n  kOe and 26 K we find \(U\) = 0.52 eV. A larger activation energy as compared to that of cuprates is not surprising because of the isotropic structure and the longer coherence length of Ba\({}_{1-x}\)K\({}_{x}\)BiO\({}_{3}\). As _T_c ~ 30 K, it turns out that the \(U\)0/_k_B_T_c ratio is greater than 100 in this material. Following the argument given by Malozemoff _et al._,[25] if we simply take, for example, the foot of the resistive transition to determine _H_c2 this would differ from a thermodynamically determined _H_c2 by less than ~ 20%. However, we define the upper critical field _H_c2 as the onset of the resistive transition, i.e., the field required to achieve the resistivity saturation. This definition is certainly more suitable in order to avoid any complication given by the flux motion.[25] We note, however, that a different choice of the _H_c2 definition does not change the _H_c2(_T_) shape.

We first studied the behavior of the upper critical field _H_c2 near _T_c. In Fig. 6 we report the temperature dependence of _H_c2 measured on crystal \(E\). It can be compared with magnetic[14] and specific-heat[13] measurements reported in the literature. This plot shows that, except for the slightly different _T_c of the samples, the _H_c2 behavior is very similar in these experiments. Very close to _T_c the _H_c2 has a linear temperature dependence and the _H_c2(_T_) slope near _T_c, (_dH_c2/_dT_)_T_c, is also very similar. Notice that a linear temperature dependence near _T_c is in agreement with the thermodynamic considerations based on the Ginzburg-Landau theory of the upper critical field and it differs to the power-law dependence (1 - _T_/_T_c_p~ - \(H\) typical of the irreversibility line. In Table I we reported the (_dH_c2/_dT_)_T_c values that we measured in different crystals. We found that (_dH_c2/_dT_)_T_c ranges between 0.51-0.65 T/K in our samples. These values are in good agreement with data reported in the literature and obtained by different methods and on different samples.[11-14] The agreement between resistive and thermodynamic measurements confirms that dissipation effects do not affect the _H_c2 determination in Ba\({}_{1-x}\)K\({}_{x}\)BiO\({}_{3}\).[11] We also note that for YBCO and other high-_T_c superconducting oxides (_dH_c2/_dT_)_T_c is at least one order of magnitude greater.

The whole temperature dependence of the upper critical field measured in our samples is reported in Figs. 7(a) and 7(b). One important feature of these data is the fact that at low temperatures the upper critical field _H_c2 is very high. At 1.8 K we measured _H_c2 = 32 T on sample \(C\) and 25 T on sample \(E\). With _H_c2(0) = 32 T we get a coherence length \(\xi = (\phi_{0}/2\pi\emph{H}_{c2})^{1/2} = 32\) A (\(\phi_{0} = 2.07 \times 10^{- 15}\) T m2). Data obtained in quasistatic field confirmed that below ~ 8 K the normal state was not achieved for a magnetic field of 20 T in all the samples we studied. We just mention here that we have also performed tunneling measurement in high magnetic field in one Ba\({}_{1-x}\)K\({}_{x}\)BiO\({}_{3}\) crystal of the same batch as samples \(D\), \(E\), and \(F\).[10] We found that at 4.2 K it is still superconducting in a magnetic field of 20 T. As tunneling measurements are not affected by dissipation phenomena this result confirms that _H_c2 is certainly higher than 20 T at liquid-He temperatures.

Near ~ 22 K, the _H_c2(_T_) curve shows an upward curvature. This upturn is observed in all the crystals we

Figure 6: Upper critical field near _T_c measured on Ba\({}_{1-x}\)K\({}_{x}\)BiO\({}_{3}\) single crystals. Filled squares are resistive measurements taken on crystal \(E\). Empty squares are magnetization measurements taken from Ref. 14. Empty circles are specific heat measurements taken from Ref. 13. Except for the different _T_c these crystals show very similar _H_c2 behavior.

Figure 7: Temperature dependence of the upper critical field measured on Ba\({}_{1-x}\)K\({}_{x}\)BiO\({}_{3}\) single crystals. The upward curvature of the _H_c2(_T_) curve is observed in all our crystals. Data of sample \(C\) are taken from Ref. 23.

  studied independently of their normal-state properties. In Fig. 8 we plot the reduced critical field _h__c_2 as a function of the normalized temperature \(t\) = _T_/_T_c for crystals \(C\) and \(E\). Despite these crystals have quite different normal-state properties, they exhibit a very similar _h__c_2 behavior. Below ~20 K the _H__c_2 temperature dependence is approximately linear down to 1.8 K, the lowest temperature we attained. In particular, we do not observe any clear change of the slope of the _H__c_2(_T_) curve between ~20 and 1.8 K. Moreover, we do not observe any saturation of the _H__c_2(_T_) curve at low temperatures.

## Discussion

Based on the analysis of the structural and normal-state transport properties, we first discuss possible effects due to the presence of different phases. In Fig. 8 we show that crystals \(C\) and \(E\) have almost identical _h__c_2(_t_) behavior although the normal-state properties of crystal \(E\) are purely metallic, while those of crystal \(C\) reveal the presence of semiconducting domains. We conclude that the semiconducting phase does not play an important role in the determination of the upper critical-field behavior. On the other hand, we may assume that Ba1-_x_KxBiO3 crystals are made of two superconducting phases. On the basis of susceptibility measurements, we take one phase with _T__c_~30 K and another one with _T__c_~25 K. The slope of the _H__c_2(_T_) curve (_dH__c_2/_dT_)\(T_{c}\) measured above 23 K belongs to the 30-K phase. Assuming a conventional behavior we may guess the low-temperature behavior of this phase. We get

\[H_{c2}(0) = 0.693 \times T_{c} \times (dH_{c2}/dT)_{T_{c}} = 10.7\text{ T}$$

at which it corresponds a coherence length x = 55 A. Below  22 K the
low-temperature phase dominates and it determines the _H__c_2 behavior.
Taking _T__c_ 25 K, we try to fit the _H__c_2 behavior with a
conventional WHH curve. The 25-K phase has a _H__c_2(_T_) initial slope
(_dH__c_2/_dT_)T_(c) = 1.1 T/K and using standard formula we get

H_(c2)(0) = 0.693 × T_(c) × (dH_(c2)/dT)_(T_(c)) = 18.3 T

that gives x = 42 A. This two-phase model may apply either in the case
of spatially separated domains with different potassium concentration or
in the case of structural phase transition occurring below T_(c). Marx
_et al._28 have actually found that the related BaPbBiO system is
metastable. However, Fleming _et al._29 did not find any structural
transition in Ba1-_x_KxBiO3 between 14 and 300 K. According to the
conventional _H__c_2 theory, _H__c_2(0) is proportional to
(_T__c_/_r__F_)2 in the clean limit and to _T__c_/_r__F_ in the dirty
limit–_r__F_ is the Fermi velocity and t the scattering rate. As
Ba1-_x_KxBiO3 is in the intermediate regime (see Table II), the
_H__c_2(0) is essentially a combination of these two expressions. Thus
we may have higher _H__c_2 in a low-_T__c_ phase if r_(F) or t are much
smaller in this phase as compared to those of the plane with higher
T_(c). In the case of Ba1-_x_KxBiO3 we may actually have one phase with
_T__c_ 30 K and potassium concentration _x_ 0.35 and a 25-K phase with
higher potassium concentration, let us say _x_ 0.45. In a naif chemical
model, potassium doping is expected to reduce the density of electron in
Ba1-_x_KxBiO3. As Ba1-_x_KxBiO3 is an electron-doped system, the K-rich
phase would have a lower Fermi energy and this could explain the higher
upper critical field as compared to the 30-K phase.

In Fig. 9 we plot the _H__c_2 temperature dependence of crystal E with
the two conventional curves related to the 30 and 25-K phases. It is
clear from this plot that this two-phase model may actually account for
data above  12 K. Yet, at low temperatures _H__c_2 increases much more
than what is expected for a conventional 25-K superconductor. We may
assume the presence of a third phase with _T__c_ 15 K and
_H__c_2(0) 25-30 T. However, we have never found evidence of 15-K phase
in susceptibility measurements in our single crystals. Furthermore,
according to the phase diagram reported by Pei _et al._16 all the
superconducting phases of Ba1-_x_KxBiO3 have T_(c) higher than 20 K.
Thus the existence of the 15-K phase is not supported by other
measurements.

Figure 9: **Temperature dependence of the upper critical field measured
on sample _E_** (circles). The two unbroken curves show the conventional
WHH behavior expected for a 30- and a 25-K superconductor, respectively.
The initial slope of these curves was chosen to fit the experimental
data.

Based on these considerations, we believe that the anomalous _H__c_2
increase observed at low temperatures is not an artifact due to presence
of different phases, but it has to be considered as a genuine feature of
one single phase. In the following we shall discuss the origin of this
enhancement.

We first note that we cannot ascribe the low temperature _H__c_2
enhancement either to magnetic pair-breaking mechanism or to effects
related to anisotropy, since Ba1-_x_K_x BiO3 is a cubic and nonmagnetic
material. We also note that the Clogston paramagnetic limit H_(p) =
1.84x_T_c is 55 T for Ba1-_x_K_x BiO3 (see Table II). That is much
higher than the measured _H__c_2. Accordingly, we expect that spin
paramagnetic effects should be unimportant in this material.

As Ba1-_x_K_x BiO3 generally exhibits a rather conventional behavior, it
is interesting to see to what extent the BCS-derived theories are able
to describe the temperature dependence of the upper critical field. The
Werthamer-Helfand-Hohenberg (WHH) theory[1] predicts a linear
temperature dependence of _H__c_2 near T_(c) and a downward curvature at
lower temperatures. We have shown that, even if two phases are presented
in Ba1-_x_K_x BiO3 crystals, this theory is not able to account for the
low-temperature _H__c_2 behavior of Ba1-_x_K_x BiO3. Schossmann and
Schachinger[4] have recently extended the WHH theory including the full
electron-phonon interaction. Based on the _H__c_2(_T_) expression given
by Schossmann and Schachinger, Marsiglio and Carbotte[5] and
independently Bulaevskii and Dolgov[30] have found that the _H__c_2(_T_)
curve may actually show a positive curvature in the middle range of
temperature in the case of large _T__c_/_o_ln ratio and the reduced
critical field _h__c_2(0) =_H__c_2(0)/[_T__c_(_dH__c_2/_dT_)_T__c_] can
be larger than 1 in this case. The logarithmic mean phonon frequency
_o_ln is defined as

$$\omega_{\ln} = \exp\left[ {\frac{2}{\lambda}}\int_{0}^{\infty}{\frac{{\alpha}^{2}F(\omega)}{\omega}}\ln(\omega)d\omega \right]\;,$$

where a2_F_(_a_) is the Eliashberg function and l is the electron-phonon
coupling constant. Marsiglio and Carbotte have shown that the
temperature dependence of _h__c_2 weakly depends on the shape of the
phonon spectra. For example, they found that the _h__c_2(_t_) curve
calculated using the phonon spectra of Pb and LaSrCuO are quite similar
and they depend on the electron-phonon coupling strength and on the
specimen purity. Thus, in first approximation, _h__c_2(_t_) can be
expressed in terms of two parameters: the _T__c_/_o_ln ratio and the
impurity parameter _t_+ =_h_/2p_p_. In order to compare our data with
these calculations, it is convenient to measure the reduced critical
field. If the observed low-temperature _H__c_2 is given by one single
phase with _T__c_ 30 K, we have _h__c_2(0) 1.7 (see Fig. 8), that is
more than twice the conventional WHH value. According to calculations of
Marsiglio and Carbotte (see Fig. 3 of Ref. 5) it turns out that it would
require _T__c_/_o_ln 1 and _t_+ 2 100 meV in order to have
_h__c_2(0) 1.7. Note that for our most metallic samples we found _t_+
 150 meV (see Table II). On the basis of the previous discussion,
however, we can ascribe the low temperatures _H__c_2 behavior to a
superconducting phase with T_(c) = 25 K as well. In this case we have
_h__c_2(0) 1, a value that is still larger than the conventional one.
According to calculations of Marsiglio and Carbotte it requires
_T__c_/_o_ln 0.4 and _t_+ 2 0 in order to have _h__c_2(0) 1. It is worth
noting that most of conventional superconductors have a _T__c_/_o_ln
ratio that is not greater than 0.25.[31] Moreover, _o_ln, l, and T_(c)
are not independent quantities but they are closely related in the
extended WHH theory.[31] Note, for example, that using standard
expressions, _T__c_/_o_ln >= 0.4 would correspond to a huge l value.[31]
Both the electron-phonon coupling constant l and _o_ln are determined by
the Eliashberg function a2_F_(_o_). Although the second derivative of
tunneling measurements reproduces some of the structures found in
neutron-scattering measurements,[32] the detailed shape of a2_F_(_o_)
obtained by tunneling measurements is, so far, sample dependent.[7-9] So
the a2_F_(_o_) function is not known with enough accuracy for an
unambiguous determination of l and _o_ln in Ba1-_x_K_x BiO3. We shall
not speculate on the different possibilities to combine T_(c), _o_ln,
and l. We rather conclude from our experiments that Ba1-_x_K_x BiO3
cannot be simply considered as a conventional weakly coupled
superconductor.

In conclusion, we measured the temperature dependence of the upper
critical field in several Ba1-_x_K_x BiO3 crystals. We found that the
_H__c_2 temperature dependence shows a reproducible upward curvature
close to 22 K that can be ascribed to the presence of two different
phases, one with _T__c_ 30 K and another one with _T__c_ 25 K. However,
below 20 K _H__c_2 follows an approximately linear dependence with no
saturation down to 1.8 K, a quite different behavior as compared to what
is expected for a conventional superconductor. We compare the reduced
field _h__c_2(0) of the 30 and 25-K phases with calculations of
Marsiglio and Carbotte. Within the framework of this model, it turns out
that Ba1-_x_K_x BiO3 is characterized by a _T__c_/_o_ln ratio greater
than 0.4.

## Acknowledgments

This work was partially supported by the Commission of the European
Communities Contract No. SCI*CT92-0785. X-ray studies were done by C.
Chaillout that we gratefully acknowledge. We thank F. Cyrot-Lackmann and
M. Cyrot who stimulated studies on copper-free superconducting oxides
and C. Cappeon who collaborated to sample preparation. We also thank B.
K. Chakraverty, A. Taraphder, D. Feinberg, D. Mayou, and J. P. Julien
for stimulating discussions.

* [11] N. R. Werthamer, E. Helfand, and P. C. Hohenberg, Phys. Rev.
**147**, 295 (1966). * [12] O. Fischer, M. Decroux, S. Roth, R. Chevrel,
and M. Sergent, J. Phys. C **8**, L474 (1975). * [13] R. A. Klemm, A.
Luther, and R. M. Beasley, Phys. Rev. B **12**, 877 (1975); D. E.
Prober, R. E. Schwall, and R. M. Beasley, _ibid._**21**, 2717 (1980). *
[14] M. Schossmann and E. Schachinger, Phys. Rev. B **33**, 6123
(1986). * [15] F. Marsiglio and J. P. Carbotte, Phys. Rev. B **36**,
3633 (1987). * [16] H. Sato, H. Takagi, and S. Uchida, Physica C
**169**, 391 (1990). * [17] J. F. Zasadzinski, N. Tralshawala, D. G.
Hinks, B. Dabrowski, A. W. Mitchell, and D. R. Richards, Physica C
**158**, 519 (1989). * [18] Q. Huang, J. F. Zasadzinski, N. Tralshawala,
K. E. Gray, D. G. Hinks, J. L. Peng, and R. L. Greene, Nature (London)
**347**, 369 (1990). * [19] P. Samuely, N. L. Bobrov, A. G. M. Jansen,
P. Wyder, S. N. Barilo, and S. V. Shiryaev, Phys. Rev. B **48**, 13 904
(1993). * [20] P. Samuely, P. Szabo, A. G. M. Jansen, P. Wyder, J.
Marcus, C. Escribe-Filippini, and M. Affronte, Physica B (to be
published). * [21] W. K. Kwok, U. Welp, G. W. Crabtree, K. G.
Vandervoort, R. Hulscher, Y. Zheng, B. Dabrowski, and D. G. Hinks, Phys.
Rev. B **40**, 9400 (1989). * [22] I. Tomeno and K. Ando, Phys. Rev. B
**40**, 2690 (1989). * [23] J. E. Graebner, L. F. Schneemeyer, and J. K.
Thomas, Phys. Rev. B **39**, 9682 (1989). * [24] G. T. Seidler, T. F.
Rosembaum, P. D. Han, D. A. Payne, and B. W. Veal, Physica C **195**,
373 (1992). * [25] J. Marcus, C. Escribe-Filippini, S. K. Agarwal, C.
Chaillout, J. Durr, T. Fournier, and J. L. Tholence, Solid State Commun.
**78**, 967 (1991). * [26] S. Pei, J. D. Jorgensen, B. Dabrowski, D. G.
Hinks, D. R. Richards, A. W. Mitchell, J. M. Newsam, S. K. Sinha, D.
Sinha, D. Vakin, and A. J. Jacobson, Phys. Rev. B **41**, 4126 (1990). *
[27] E. S. Hellman and E. H. Hartford, Phys. Rev. B **47**, 11 346
(1993). * [28] P. W. Anderson, Phys. Rev. Lett. **67**, 2992 (1991). *
[29] A. Carrington, A. P. Mackenie, C. T. Lin, and J. R. Cooper, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **69**, 2855 (1992). * [30] C. Kenziora, D. Mandrus, L.
Mihaly, and L. Forro, Phys. Rev. B **46**, 14 297 (1992). * [31] N.
Hamada, S. Massidda, A. J. Freeman, and J. Redinger, Phys. Rev. B
**40**, 4442 (1989). * [32] N. W. Ashcroft and N. D. Mermin, _Solid
State Physics_ (Saunders, Philadelphia, 1976). * [33] C.
Escribe-Filippini, J. Marcus, M. Affronte, H. Rakoto, J. M. Broto, J. C.
Ousset, and S. Askenazy, Physica C **210**, 133 (1993). * [34] K. A.
Muller, M. Takashige, and J. G. Bednorz, Phys. Rev. Lett. **58**, 1143
(1987). * [35] A. P. Malozemoff, T. K. Worthington, Y. Yeshurun, F.
Holtzemberg, and P. H. Kes, Phys. Rev. B **38**, 7203 (1988); Y.
Yeshurun and A. P. Malozemoff, Phys. Rev. Lett. **60**, 2202 (1988). *
[36] M. Tinkham, Phys. Rev. Lett. **14**, 1658 (1988). * [37] T. T. M.
Palstra, B. Batlogg, L. F. Schneemeyer, and J. V. Waszczak, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **61**, 1662 (1988). * [38] D. T. Marx, P. G. Radaelli, J. D.
Jorgensen, R. L. Hitterman, D. G. Hinks, S. Pei, and B. Dabrowski, Phys.
Rev. B **46**, 1144 (1992). * [39] R. M. Fleming, P. Marsh, R. J. Cava,
and J. J. Krajewski, Phys. Rev. B **38**, 7026 (1988). * [40] L. N.
Bulaevskii and O. V. Dolgov, Pis’ma Zh. Eksp. Teor. Fiz. **45**, 413
(1987) [JETP Lett. **45**, 526 (1987)]. * [41] J. P. Carbotte, Rev. Mod.
Phys. **62**, 1027 (1990). * [42] C. K. Loong, P. Vashishta, R. K.
Kalia, M. H. Degani, D. L. Price, J. D. Jorgensen, D. G. Hinks, B.
Dabrowski, A. W. Mitchell, D. R. Richards, and Y. Zheng, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **62**, 2628 (1989). * [43] M. Affronte, J. Marcus, and C.
Escribe-Filippini, Solid State Commun. **85**, 501 (1993).
