Enhanced two-dimensional properties of the four-layered cuprate
high-T_(c) superconductor TlBa₂Ca₃Cu₄O_(y)

Kyung-Hee Kim,¹ Heon-Jung Kim,¹ Sung-Ik Lee,¹ A. Iyo,² Y. Tanaka,² K.
Tokiwa,³ and T. Watanabe³

¹National Creative Research Initiative Center for Superconductivity and
Department of Physics, Pohang University of Science and Technology,
Pohang 790-784, Republic of Korea

²National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology
(AIST), Tsukuba, Ibaraki 305-8568, Japan

³Department of Applied Electronics, Tokyo University of Science, Noda,
Chiba 278-8510, Japan

###### Abstract

We have measured the temperature dependence of the reversible
magnetization of a four-layered cuprate TlBa₂Ca₃Cu₄O_(y) (Tl-1234) for
the H∥c axis, which has the highest superconducting transition
temperature T_(c) of almost 130 K among the four-layered cuprates. The
reversible magnetization was analyzed by using the high-field scaling
theory and the Hao-Clem model. It was found that in the critical region
around T_(c), two-dimensional fluctuations dominate. This enhanced 2D
behavior can be naturally explained by selective doping model, where
doping levels of the inner and outer CuO₂ planes in a unit cell are
different. From these analyses, various thermodynamic parameters, such
as the coherence length, the penetration depth, the critical fields, and
the Ginzburg-Landau parameter were obtained.

pacs: 10.1103/PhysRevB.70.092501 + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL REVIEW
B **70**, 092501 (2004)

## I Introduction

Experimentally, it is known that the superconducting transition
temperature (T_(c)) for multilayered high-T_(c) superconductors does not
monotonically increase with the number of CuO₂ layers n. The T_(c)
increases with n up to n = 3, but then starts to drop at n = 4.^(1, 2)
This is in sharp contrast to the general expectation that T_(c)
increases while n increases, suggesting that the charge carriers were
not distributed equally in every CuO₂ plane within a unit cell.³

The inequivalent distribution of the charge carriers in different CuO₂
planes was confirmed by the Cu-NMR experiment⁴ for Hg- and Cu-based
high- T_(c) cuprates with n = 3, 4, and 5. According to this experiment,
the local-hole doping levels N_(h) can be different on the inner square
planes (IP) and the outer pyramidal planes (OP). For compounds with n =
3 where CuO₂ planes in a unit cell consist of one IP and two OP’s,
N_(h)(IP) and N_(h)(OP) are almost the same and both exhibit nearly
optimal hole contents. On the other hand, for compounds with n = 4 or 5,
OP is predominantly in an overdoped state while IP remains either
optimal or underdoped. Consequently, "microscopic" T_(c) of the OP and
of the IP differ from each other by this selective doping. Thus, the
compound with n = 3 shows the maximum T_(c) and the compounds with n = 4
have lower T_(c), along with a reduced interlayer coupling. This
proposes that a reduction in T_(c) with increasing n is associated with
an increase in ΔN_(h)=N_(h)(OP) - N_(h)(IP). Quite recently, the
coexistence of the superconductivity and the antiferromagnetism in
Hg-1245 was observed in the NMR experiment. This revealed that one of
the IP and OP became extremely underdoped.⁵

Tl-based cuprates constitute one of the largest chemical families of
high-T_(c) superconductors, forming two distinct structure series with
the general formulas TlBa₂Ca_(n − 1)Cu_(n)O_(2n + 3) [Tl - 12(n - 1) n]
for single-TI-O-layered and Tl₂Ba₂Ca_(n − 1)Cu_(n)O_(2n + 4) [Tl -
22(n - 1) n] for double-TI-O-layered compounds (n = 1 - 4). So far it is
known that critical current density (J_(c)) and irreversibility field
($H_{\rm in}$) of the single TI-O layer compounds are relatively higher
than that of the double Tl-O layers for n = 1 - 3.⁶ Therefore for the
application, the single Tl-O layer compound is more promising compared
to the double Tl-O layer compound. However, these single Tl-O layered
compounds have not been studied in detail due to the lack of phase pure
samples. The toxicity and high vapor pressure of the Tl₂O₃ has prevented
one from synthesizing phase pure Tl-based compounds. Using a high
pressure technique, Iyo _et al._ successfully synthesized high quality
Tl-1234 with T_(c) = 128 K.⁷ The T_(c) of this sample is higher than the
T_(c) of 115 K of the earlier samples.⁸ The increase of T_(c) was due to
very careful preparations of a carbon-free precursor. Because of the
above-mentioned reasons, even the basic superconducting parameters of a
Tl-1234 superconductor, such as the characteristic lengths (ξ and λ),
the critical fields (H_(c) and H_(c2)), and the Ginzburg-Landau
parameter κ, have not been reported on the phase pure Tl-1234.

In this paper, basic superconducting parameters are obtained after the
analysis of the reversible magnetization of the grain-aligned high
quality Tl-1234 in magnetic fields applied parallel to the c axis.
Ullah-Dorsey’s scaling theory⁹ and the Hao-Clem model¹⁰ were used in the
analyses. From these analyses, we found that a two-dimensional nature is
pronounced for this four-layered Tl-1234, which is a natural consequence
of the selective doping.

## II Experiments

The Tl-1234 was prepared in high-pressure conditions. The detailed
process of sample preparation is given elsewhere.⁷ This compound has a
tetragonal structure (P4/mmm) with lattice parameters a = b = 3.849 A
and c = 19.005 A. The Farrell method¹² was employed in order to make a
c-axis-aligned sample. The powder was aligned in an epoxy with an
external magnetic field of 7 T at room temperature. The alignment was
confirmed by the x-ray diffraction. All the peaks in the inset of Fig. 1
were indexed as (00_l_), indicating that the grains are well aligned
along the c axis. Figure 1 shows the low field magnetization at 10 Oe
parallel to the c axis. The transition temperature _T_c was found to be
128 K.

The temperature dependence of the magnetization was measured by using a
superconducting quantum interference device magnetometer (MPMS-XL,
Quantum design). The zero-field-cooled and field-cooled magnetization
for the external field range of 1 T <= H <= 5 T were measured.

## III Results and Discussion

Figure 2 shows the temperature dependence of the reversible
magnetization 4 _p_M(_T_) for various magnetic fields applied parallel
to the c axis. As shown in this figure, the cross-over point of the
magnetization that is a typically feature of high-_T_c, cuprate [11, 13,
14, 15, 16] was observed. The crossover point occurs at _T_* = 125.2 K
and 4 _p_M*(_T_) = -2.04 G. and this was due to the enhanced positional
fluctuation of vortices, as predicted by Bulaevskii _et al._[17]

In the vortex fluctuation model, free energy consists of two parts. One
is due to the static structure of vortices and the other is the
contribution from the positional fluctuation of vortices. In this
framework, the derivative of magnetization is

$$\frac{\partial M}{\partial\ln H} = \frac{\phi_{0}}{32\pi^{2}\lambda_{ab}^{2}(T)}[1 - g(T)]\text{ with }g(T) = \frac{32\pi^{2}k_{B}}{\pi_{0}^{2}s}T\lambda_{ab}^{2}(T),$$

where s is the effective interlayer spacing and _ph_0 is the flux
quantum. The temperature _T_* in this model is determined as _g_(_T_*) =
1 and the corresponding magnetization is

$$M*(T*) = \frac{k_{B}T*}{s\phi_{0}}\ln\frac{\eta\alpha}{\sqrt{e}},$$

where e and a are constants of order unity.

The high-field scaling theory suggested by Tesanovic _et al._[18, 19]
also predicted _M*(T*) = k_B_T_*/_s_ph_0 in a quasi-2D system. However,
the calculated value s in this theory was found to be larger than the
crystallographic interlayer spacing. This discrepancy was due to the
high field approximation and could be mediated by using a theoretical
result of Koshelev, [20] which calculated the contribution of the
fluctuation to the magnetization by considering higher Landau levels. In
this case, the magnetization at the crossing point becomes _M*(T*) =
(k_B_T_*/_s_ph_0)_m_, where m, 0.346. Using the values of _M_* and _T_*
from our data, we calculated s = 1.78 nm, which is comparable to the
crystallographic interlayer spacing. The large s indicates that Tl-1234
has a strong two-dimensional (2D) superconducting character.

Another indication of the 2D nature of the four layer Tl-1234 is from
the high field scaling law proposed by Ullah-Dorsey. According to
Ullah-Dorsey, [9] in the critical region around _T_c the scaling form
for magnetization is given by

$$\frac{4\pi M}{(TH)^{n}} = F\left[ {A\frac{T - T_{c}(H)}{(TH)^{n}}} \right\rbrack,$$

where F is a scaling function, A is the temperature and field
independent coefficient, and the exponent n is 2/3 for 3D and 1/2 for
2D. The inset of Fig. 2 shows the data scaled by the 2D scaling. For
each field, all data collapsed onto a single curve, consistent with the
2D nature of Tl-1234. This analysis gives _T_c = 128 K and the slope
_dH_c2/_dT_c = -2.24 T/K near _T_c. The 3D scaling was not satisfactory.

Far away from _T_c, the effects of thermal fluctuations are less
important. In this regime, we used the Hao-Clem model to analyze the
reversible magnetization. Using this model, several important
thermodynamic parameters were obtained. A detailed description of the
method was given in Ref. [10].

Figure 3 and the inset of Fig. 3 show the temperature dependence of the
thermodynamic critical field (_Hc_) and the Ginzburg-Landau parameter
(_k_), respectively. The solid-line

Figure 2: Temperature dependence of the reversible magnetization in the
field range of 1 T <= H <= 5 T applied parallel to the c axis. Inset:
Two-dimensional scaling of the magnetization around _T_c(_H_).

Figure 1: Temperature dependence of zero-field-cooled (lower curve) and
field-cooled magnetization (upper curve) at 10 Oe. Inset: XRD for
grain-aligned Tl-1234. The (00_l_) reflections are predominant in the
XRD pattern, which confirms that these grains are well oriented along
the c axis.

represents the two-fluid model for H_(c), which yields H_(c)(0) = 1.01 T
and T_(c)=130.8 K. The κ(T) is nearly constant at κ =99.7 up to T=116 K
(≈0.91 T_(c)) but rapidly increases above this temperature due to the
large thermal fluctuations. This anomalous behavior is consistent with
the high field scaling by Ullah-Dorsey.

If the value of κ is correctly chosen, the Hao-Clem model[21; 22; 23]
predicts that −4πM(H) curves are scaled by $\sqrt{2}H_{c}(T)$. The inset
of Fig. 4 shows the experimental data and the theoretical curve of
−4πM^(′)(H)=$-4\pi M/\sqrt{2}H_{c}(T)$ versus H^(′)=$H/\sqrt{2}H_{c}(T)$
with κ=99.7. All the data are clearly collapsed onto a single curve.

Employing the values of H_(c)(0) and κ obtained from the Hao-Clem model,
we calculated several thermodynamic parameters. Using the relation of
H_(c2)(T)=$\sqrt{2}\kappa H_{c}(T)$, (dH_(c2)/dT)_(T)=2.23 T/K was
obtained. According to the Werthamer-Helfand-Hohenberg
formula[24]H_(c2)(0) =0.5758(κ₁/κ)T_(c)|dH_(c2)/dT|_(T_(c)), H_(c2)(0)
can be estimated,

where κ₁/κ is 1.26 in the clean and 1.20 in the dirty limit. H_(c2)(0)
was 207 T, which corresponds to ξ_(ab)(0)=1.26 nm in clean limit and 197
T and ξ_(ab)(0)=1.29 nm in the dirty limit. These values are very much
consistent with that of high field scaling.

Figure 4 shows the magnetic penetration depth [λ_(ab)(T)] in Tl-1234
that was obtained using the relation λ(T) =κ[ϕ₀/2πH_(c2)(T)]^(1/2),
along with the theoretical calculations of different models. The solid
line and the dotted line represent the BCS clean limit calculation and
an empirical formula, defined by λ(T)=λ(0)/[1 − (T/T_(c))²]^(1/2),
respectively. As shown in this figure, these models reasonably fit the
experimental data. As a result, the derived value of λ_(ab)(0) is 156 nm
with T_(c)=130.5 K for the BCS clean limit and 150 nm with T_(c)=130 K
for the empirical formula.

Table 1 summarizes superconducting parameters of Tl-1234 as well as
those of other four-layer superconductors

                                     TlBa₂Ca₃Cu₄O_(y)   HgBa₂Ca₃Cu₄O_(10 + δ)   CuBa₂Ca₃Cu₄O_(12 − δ)
  --------------------------------- ------------------ ----------------------- -----------------------
              T_(c) (K)              128 (Low field)             125                     117
                                       130.5 (BCS)                             
                  κ                        99.7                  102                     127
   −(dH_(c2)/dT_(c))_(T_(c)) (T/K)         2.23                  2.2                     2.3
                                      2.24 (scaling)                           
            H_(c)(0) (T)                   1.02                  1.1                     0.9
            H_(c2)(0) (T)                  207                   205                     196
           ξ_(ab)(0) (nm)                  1.26                 1.27                    1.28
           λ_(ab)(0) (nm)                  156                   157                     198

Table 1: Thermodynamic parameters of three four-layer superconductors
deduced from the reversible magnetization.

Figure 3: Temperature dependence of thermodynamic critical field
H_(c)(T) from theoretical fitting. The solid line represents the
two-fluid model. The inset shows temperature dependence of the κ
extracted from the Hao-Clem model.

Figure 4: Temperature dependence of the penetration depth λ_(ab)(T) for
Tl-1234 obtained from the experiment. Dashed and solid lines represent
λ(T)=λ(0)/[1 − (T/T_(c))⁴]^(1/2) and the BCS clean, respectively.
Magnetization −4πM^(′)(H)=$-4\pi M/\sqrt{2}H_{c}(T)$ versus H^(′)
=$H/\sqrt{2}H_{c}(T)$. Solid line represents the universal curve derived
from the model of Hao _et al._ with κ=99.7.

Hg-1234 (Ref. [25]) and Cu-1234 (Ref. [11]) for comparison. Before the
synthesis of the high quality Tl-1234 superconductor, the T_(c) and
H_(c2) of Hg-1234 were the best among the four layer superconductors.
However, as shown the Table I, the T_(c) of Tl-1234 is now the highest.
The enhanced T_(c) in Tl-1234 may be due to the high charge carrier
density deduced from the penetration depth as shown in the table.

## IV Summary

The equilibrium magnetization for a well-aligned Tl-1234 was measured at
various fields up to 5 T and various superconducting parameters were
obtained from the Hao-Clem model and scaling of the high field
magnetization. The fluctuation-induced magnetization shows a pronounced
two-dimensional behavior, which is a natural consequence of the
inequivalent charge distribution within a unit cell.

###### Acknowledgements.

This work was supported by the Ministry of Science and Technology of
Korea through the Creative Research Initiative Program.

## References

* [1] K. Tanaka _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **63**, 064508 (2001). * [2] Y.
Zhuo _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **60**, 13 094 (1999). * [3] S. L. Cooper
and K. E. Gray, in _Physical Properties of High Temperature
Superconductors IV_ (World Scientific, Singapore, 1994), p. 61. * [4] H.
Kotegawa _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **64**, 064515 (2001). * [5] H. Kotegawa
_et al._, Phys. Rev. B **69**, 014501 (2004). * [6] D. H. Kim _et al._,
Physica C **177**, 431 (1991). * [7] A. Iyo, Y. Tanaka, Y. Ishiura, M.
Tokumoto, K. Tokiwa, T. Watanabe, and H. Ihara, Supercond. Sci. Technol.
**14**, 504 (2001); A. Iyo, Y. Aizawa, Y. Tanaka, M. Tokumoto, K.
Tokiwa, T. Watanabe, and H. Ihara, Physica C **357-360**, 324 (2001); A.
Iyo, Y. Ishiura, Y. Tanaka, P. Badica, K. Tokiwa, T. Watanabe, and H.
Ihara, _ibid._**370**, 205 (2002). * [8] H. Ihara _et al._, Phys. Rev. B
**38**, 11 952 (1988); D. M. Ogborne and M. T. Weller, Physica C
**230**, 153 (1994). * [9] S. Ullah and A. T. Dorsey, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**65**, 2066 (1990). * [10] Z. Hao and J. R. Clem, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**67**, 2371 (1991); Z. Hao, J. R. Clem, M. W. McElfresh, L. Civale, A.
P. Malozemoff, and F. Holtzberg, Phys. Rev. B **43**, 2844 (1991). *
[11] M.-S. Kim, C. U. Jung, S.-I. Lee, and A. Iyo, Phys. Rev. B **63**,
134513 (2001). * [12] D. E. Farrell, B. S. Chandrasekhar, M. R. McGuire,
M. M. Fang, V. G. Kogan, J. R. Clem, and D. K. Finnemore, Phys. Rev. B
**36**, 4025 (1987). * [13] J. H. Choi _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **58**,
538 (1998). * [14] M.-K. Bae, M.-S. Kim, S.-I. Lee, N.-G. Park, S.-J.
Hwang, D.-H. Kim, and J.-H. Choy, Phys. Rev. B **53**, 12 416 (1996). *
[15] A. Wahl, V. Hardy, F. Warmont, A. Maignan, M. P. Delamare, and C.
Simon, Phys. Rev. B **55**, 3929 (1997). * [16] H.-J. Kim, P. Chowdhury,
I.-S. Jo, and S.-I. Lee, Phys. Rev. B **66**, 134508 (2002). * [17] L.
N. Bulaevskii, M. Ledvij, and V. G. Kogan, Phys. Rev. Lett. **68**, 3773
(1992). * [18] Z. Tesanovic and A. V. Andreev, Phys. Rev. B **49**, 4064
(1994). * [19] Z. Tesanovic, L. Xing, and L. Bulaevskii, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **69**, 3563 (1992). * [20] A. E. Koshelev, Phys. Rev. B **50**,
506 (1994). * [21] M.-S. Kim, T. R. Lemberger, C. U. Jung, J.-H. Choi,
J. Y. Kim, H.-J. Kim, and S.-I. Lee, Phys. Rev. B **66**, 214509
(2002). * [22] Y. Zhuo, J.-H. Choi, M.-S. Kim, W.-S. Kim, Z. S. Lim, and
S.-I. Lee, Phys. Rev. B **55**, 12 719 (1997). * [23] M.-S. Kim, S.-I.
Lee, S.-C. Yu, and N. H. Hur, Phys. Rev. B **53**, 9460 (1996). * [24]
N. R. Werthamer, E. Helfand, and P. C. Hohenberg, Phys. Rev. **147**,
295 (1966). * [25] M.-S. Kim, S.-I. Lee, S.-C. Yu, I. Kuzemskaya, E. S.
Itskevish, and K.A. Lokshin, Phys. Rev. B **57**, 6121 (1998).
