# Intermediate valence in the filled skutterudite compound YbFe4Sb12

N. R. Dilley, E. J. Freeman, E. D. Bauer, and M. B. Maple

Department of Physics and Institute for Pure and Applied Physical
Sciences, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, California
92093

10 April 1998

###### Abstract

We have synthesized and characterized YbFe4Sb12, a member of the class
of filled skutterudite (LaFe4P12+type) compounds. Measurements of the
lattice parameter, magnetization, electrical resistivity, and specific
heat suggest that the Yb ions have an intermediate valence and that the
effective mass of the conduction electrons is moderately enhanced at low
temperatures. The coefficient of the electronic specific heat is
estimated to be γ(0) = 140 mJ mol-1 K-2, and we observe a characteristic
temperature for the Yb ion valence fluctuations of T^(*) ∼ 50 K. No
superconductivity was detected down to T = 0.40 K.
[S0163-1829(98)03733-3]

## 1 Introduction

The family of compounds known as the filled skutterudites [1] (space
group _In_3), with the general structural formula MT₄X₁₂ (_M_ = alkaline
earth, rare earth, actinide; T = Fe, Ru, Os; X = pnictogen: P, As, Sb)
exhibits a striking variety of physical properties that are associated
in large part with the unusual behavior of the M atoms. Insulating
behavior can arise due to an energy gap formed by hybridization of the M
atom f level with a broad band of the T4_X_12 sublattice. [2]
Superconductivity, [3, 4, 5] ferromagnetism, [2] and a metal-insulator
transition [6] have also been observed among various members of the
filled skutterudites. Recent work has shown that CeFe4Sb12 exhibits
heavy-fermion behavior with moderately high electron effective masses,
[7, 8, 9] which motivated us to search for similar correlated electron
effects in other filled skutterudite compounds. Elements that are known
to exhibit such physics in intermetallic compounds include Ce, Pr, Sm,
Eu, Tm, Yb, and U, i.e., those which are generally close to an
_f_-electron valence instability. There are many models for this subtle
electronic state that are neither localized nor truly itinerant, but a
common feature is the existence of a characteristic energy scale
_k_B_T_* that delineates high-temperature magnetic (Curie law) behavior
from low-temperature nonmagnetic (Pauli-like) behavior of the f
electrons.

There have been no reports of successful synthesis of any filled
skutterudites containing heavier rare earths, M = Gd-Lu, and it was
conjectured [1] within the context of the _M_Fe4P12 series that the
smaller radii of the heavier M3+ ions prevent adequate bonding to the
lattice. However, Tm and Yb are known to be divalent in some compounds,
and the radii of divalent Tm and Yb ions are comparable to those of the
trivalent light lanthanides (La-Eu). Hence, we hypothesized that
divalent Tm and Yb might stabilize the filled skutterudite structure.
Ytterbium is especially interesting as it is the 4 _f_-hole analog to
Ce, and Yb compounds exhibit many of the same Kondo-like properties seen
in Ce intermetallics. [10]

In addition to relatively long-standing interest in the correlated
electron physics of filled skutterudite compounds, the recent attention
these materials have received is largely due to their potential for
thermoelectric applications. [11]-[3] Future measurements of the thermal
and transport properties of YbFe4Sb12 will therefore be of great
interest in the continuing search for better thermoelectric materials.

## 2 Experimental details

Bulk dc magnetization measurements were made using a commercial Quantum
Design MPMS magnetometer over the temperature range 2 < T < 300 K and
for values of applied magnetic field H up to 70 kOe. For low-temperature
measurements, we employed a Faraday magnetometer equipped with a 3He
cryostat with a base temperature of 0.40 K and maximum field of 50 kOe.
Transport properties were measured in a commercial Quantum Design PPMS
cryostat using a standard four-lead arrangement and an ac resistance
bridge operating at 16 Hz with a 1-mA excitation current. The
low-temperature specific heat was measured down to 0.55 K in a 3He
semiadiabatic calorimeter with a standard heat-pulse technique. The
crystal structure and phase purity of the samples were measured using a
9-kW Rigaku powder diffractometer with a rotating copper anode
(λ_(Cu Kα) = 1.541 78 A). For more accurate determination of the lattice
parameter, a silicon standard was used.

Polycrystalline samples of YbFe4Sb12 were prepared from elemental
constituents of purity 99.99

## III Results and Discussion

The cubic lattice parameter of YbFe₄Sb₁₂ was determined from x-ray
powder diffractometry to be a = 9.158 ± 0.001 A. In Fig. 1 the lattice
parameter of MFe₄Sb₁₂ is plotted versus M, the alkaline-earth or
rare-earth atom. The first observation is that the divalent alkaline
earths (M =  Ca, Sr, Ba) yield larger values of the lattice parameter
than the generally trivalent rare earths. Starting with La, one observes
the typical reduction of the lattice parameter due to the contraction of
the ionic radii of the rare earths with increasing atomic number.
However, the cases of M =  Eu and Yb are clearly anomalous, reflecting
their tendency toward divvalence or intermediate valence in contrast to
the other rare earths in this series that all appear to be trivalent. It
is possible that this larger ionic radius stabilizes Yb and Eu in the
skutterudite structure, while all other trivalent rare earths in the
range M =  Gd−Tm are too small to be accommodated in the atomic "cages"
that are formed by the transition metal-pnicogen sublattice. Note that
Tm is also divalent in some compounds, yet our attempts to synthesize
TmFe₄Sb₁₂ by this same technique were unsuccessful. Synthesis of
YbFe₄P₁₂ by a molten metal flux growth technique [1] was also
unsuccessful. This is in accord with an earlier observation [14] that
the valence of the M ion is strongly influenced by the electronegativity
of the pnictogen atom, in that the M valence is higher in the phosphides
than in the corresponding antimonides. This could make YbFe₄P₁₂ unstable
as the Yb would be trivalent and thus too small to be accommodated in
the structure.

Measurements of the magnetic properties of YbFe₄Sb₁₂ are also suggestive
of intermediate valence of the Yb ions and did not reveal any evidence
of superconductivity down to T = 0.40 K. Figure 2 shows isothermal
magnetization curves M(H) measured at temperatures 0.4 < T < 100 K that
indicate that the magnetic response of YbFe₄Sb₁₂ may be decomposed into
(1) a saturable portion indicative of localized magnetic moments and (2)
a susceptibility χ₀ evident at high fields and low temperatures that
reflects the Pauli paramagnetism of the conduction electrons. The dashed
line in Fig. 2 is an estimate of this latter contribution at T = 0.4 K,
yielding χ₀ = 3.45 × 10⁻² cm³ mol⁻¹. Magnetization data M(H) taken in
applied fields up to H = 70 kOe (not shown) allowed us to estimate this
high-field susceptibility, indicated by solid circles in Fig. 3, at
temperatures up to T = 10 K. We were unable to model the saturable
portion of the magnetization M(H) as some function f(H/(T − Θ)), where Θ
is a constant, suggesting that this material may exhibit some type of
magnetic order at low temperatures. The saturation magnetization as
estimated from the y-axis intercept of the dashed line in Fig. 2
corresponds to $M_{\rm sat}\!=\!0.2\mu_{B}$/f.u. Inverse magnetic
susceptibility χ⁻¹ = H/M vs T data, taken in an applied field H = 55
kOe, are shown in the inset of Fig. 3. The susceptibility can be
described by a Curie-Weiss law
$\chi\!=\!N_{A}\mu_{\rm eff}^{2}/3k_{B}(T\!-\!\Theta_{\rm CW})$ in the
temperature range 120< T < 300 K, and yields an effective magnetic
moment $\mu_{\rm eff}\!=\!3.09\mu_{B}$/f.u. and a Curie-Weiss
temperature $\Theta_{\rm CW}\!=\!40$ K. The effective moment is
intermediate between

Figure 3: Magnetic susceptibility χ = M/H (open circles) at H = 55 kOe
plotted along with the estimated high-field susceptibility χ₀ (filled
circles) vs temperature T. The dashed line is the conjectured behavior
of χ₀(T). Inset: inverse magnetic susceptibility χ⁻¹ = H/M vs T. The
line shows a fit to a Curie-Weiss law for χ120  < T  < 300 K.

Figure 2: Isothermal magnetization curves M(H) taken at T = 0.4 K in a
Faraday magnetometer, and at T = 5, 10, 20, 50, and 100 K in a
superconducting quantum interference device magnetometer. The dashed
line shows an estimate of the high-field susceptibility χ₀ = 3.45 × 10⁻²
cm³ mol⁻¹ at T = 0.4 K.

the values for Yb³⁺ ($\mu_{\rm eff}$=4.5μ_(B)/f.u. for the free ion) and
the nonmagnetic Yb²⁺ ($\mu_{\rm eff}$=0) configurations. In Fig. 3, a
comparison of χ = M/H (open circles) with the high-field susceptibility
χ₀ (filled circles) is shown. The dashed line is our conjecture for the
behavior of χ₀(T) as it merges with the χ = M/H vs T curve near T = 50
K. Alternatively, our observations of a positive Curie-Weiss
temperature, a rounding of the susceptibility near that temperature, and
magnetization curves M(H) that do not scale as H/(T − Θ) could be
evidence of ferromagnetic ordering near T = 50 K. The absence of
magnetic hysteresis in low-temperature M(H) measurements (Fig. 2) may be
explained by a very low coercive field in the ordered state. A more
detailed magnetization study as well as neutron-scattering experiments
will shed more light on this unusual magnetic behavior at low
temperatures. Nonetheless, the high value of χ₀ at low temperatures
points to a large effective mass of the conduction electrons, a finding
that is corroborated by electrical-resistivity and specific-heat
measurements.

The electrical resistivity of YbFe₄Sb₁₂ increases monotonically with
temperature up to 300 K, as shown in Fig. 4. We estimate a residual
resistivity ρ₀ ≈ 9μΩ cm based on infrared reflectivity measurements.[15]
A broad shoulder near T ∼ 50 − 70 K was observed in measurements on four
separate samples. This shape of the ρ(T) curve is similar to that
expected for conduction electrons that scatter into a large narrow
feature in the electronic density of states near the Fermi level, which
is presumably of f character.[16] The rapid drop in resistivity near 70
K could be a measure of the effective degeneracy of this narrow feature,
which may itself be the analogue of an Abrikosov-Suhl resonance for a
Kondo lattice of f electrons.

Low-temperature specific-heat data, plotted as C/T vs T², for YbFe₄Sb₁₂
shown in Fig. 5 indicate a slightly enhanced electronic specific-heat
coefficient γ ≈ 75 mJ mol⁻¹ K⁻² in the temperature range 5 < T < 15 K,
obtained from a fit of the data to the C(T) = γT + βT³, where the latter
term is the low-temperature expression for phonons within the Debye
model. We estimate the Debye temperature Θ_(D) = (12π⁴N_(i)R/Sβ)^(1/3)
to be 190 K; here N_(i) = 17 is the number of ions per formula unit and
R is the universal gas constant. Below T ≈ 5 K, γ(T) = C/T − βT² shows a
nearly linear increase with decreasing temperatures to 140 mJ mol⁻¹ K⁻²,
as shown in the lower inset of Fig. 5. A sharp upturn occurs below T ≈ 1
K, and while no accompanying feature in the magnetization indicative of
magnetic ordering was seen down to 0.4 K, the feature was modeled as the
high-temperature tail of a Schottky anomaly that varies as T⁻². We were
able to fit the specific heat in the temperature range T = 0.6 − 1.0 K
to the form C(T) = γT + DT⁻² with γ and D as adjustable parameters,
obtaining γ = 140 mJ mol⁻¹ K⁻². The Schottky anomaly is possibly due to
trace amounts of magnetic impurities in the sample.

The moderate enhancement of the electronic specific heat and the
magnetic susceptibility is very similar to other heavy-fermion Yb
compounds such as YbCu₄Ag (Ref. [10]) and YbCuAl.[17] In order to
determine whether the large values of χ₀(0) and γ(0) are associated with
itinerant f electrons, we estimated the Wilson-Sommerfeld ratio for
YbFe₄Sb₁₂:

$$R = \left\langle \frac{\chi_{0}(0)}{\gamma(0)} \right\rangle\frac{\pi^{2}k_{\rm B}^{2}}{\mu_{\rm eff}^{2}}.$$

Using $\mu_{\rm eff}$=4.5μ_(B) appropriate for Yb³⁺ free ions, χ₀(0) =
3.45×10⁻² cm³ mol⁻¹, and γ(0) = 140 mJ mol⁻¹ K⁻², we obtain R = 2.62.
This value is in good agreement with R = 2 expected for a spin↓ Kondo
effect, indicating that the enhancements of χ₀ and γ are due to heavy
electrons attributable to either intermediate valent Yb ions or a Kondo
lattice of screened Yb³⁺ moments.

In conclusion, we have synthesized the filled skutterudite compound
YbFe₄Sb₁₂ and have found the cubic lattice parameter to be anomalous
with respect to the other predominantly trivalent rare earths M in
MFe₄Sb₁₂, which is indicative of an Yb valence intermediate between 2+
and 3+. The magnetic, electrical transport, and thermal properties
measured to low temperatures are consistent with heavy-fermion or
intermediate-valence behavior associated with the Yb ions. Based on
these measurements, we estimate an effective

Figure 4: Electrical resistance measured from 300 K down to 1.8 K. Note
the broad shoulder around 70 K.

Figure 5: Specific heat C(T) measured over the range 0.55<T<20 K (upper
inset) and C/T vs T² at low temperatures, fitted to C(T) = γT + βT³
(dashed line). Below T = 4 K, C/T approaches a value of 140 mJ mol⁻¹
K⁻², and an upturn in C/T below T = 1 K is likely due to a Schottky
anomaly. Lower inset: temperature dependence of γ(T) = C/T − βT² that
exhibits a linear increase below T ≈ 5 K.

degeneracy temperature T^(*) ∼ 50 K for a narrow f-electron feature in
the density of states near the Fermi level. Below T ∼ 5 K, the
coefficient of the electronic specific heat increases to γ = 140 mJ
mol⁻¹ K⁻² and the linear magnetic susceptibility saturates to
χ₀ = 3.45 × 10⁻² cm³ mol⁻¹, pointing to a moderately enhanced effective
mass of the conduction electrons. Neutron-scattering and
high-temperature specific-heat measurements are planned to address the
issue of magnetic ordering and assess the thermal parameters of the Yb
ion, while Seebeck-coefficient and thermal-conductivity measurements
will be performed to determine the thermoelectric figure of merit _ZT_.
Clearly, this compound as well as many other members of the filled
skutterudites continue to be fascinating subjects of both applied and
basic research.

###### Acknowledgements.

We acknowledge helpful discussions with A. Amann, M. C. de Andrade, R.
P. Dickey, D. A. Gajewski, G. P. Meisner, R. A. Robinson, B. C. Sales,
and L. J. Sham. This research was supported by the U.S. Department of
Energy under Grant No. DE-FG03-86ER-45230, the U.S. National Science
Foundation under Grant No. DMR-97-05454, and CalSpace minigrant No.
CS-20/97.

## References

* [1] W. Jeitschko and D. Braun, Acta Crystallogr., Sect. B: Struct.
Crystallogr. Cryst. Chem. **B33**, 3401 (1977). * [2] G. P. Meisner, M.
S. Torikachvili, K. N. Yang, M. B. Maple, and R. P. Guertin, J. Appl.
Phys. **57**, 3073 (1985). * [3] M. S. Torikachvili, J. W. Chen, Y.
Dalichaouch, R. P. Guertin, M. W. McElfresh, C. Rossel, M. B. Maple, and
G. P. Meisner, Phys. Rev. B **36**, 8660 (1987). * [4] I. Shirotani, T.
Adachi, K. Tachi, S. Todo, K. Nozawa, T. Yagi, and M. Kinoshita, J.
Phys. Chem. Solids **57**, 211 (1996). * [5] I. Shirotani, T. Uchiumi,
K. Ohno, C. Sekine, Y. Nakazawa, K. Kanoda, S. Todo, and T. Yagi, Phys.
Rev. B **56**, 7866 (1997). * [6] C. Sekine, T. Uchiumi, I. Shirotani,
and T. Yagi, Phys. Rev. Lett. **79**, 3218 (1997). * [7] M. E.
Danebrock, C. B. H. Evers, and W. Jeitschko, J. Phys. Chem. Solids
**57**, 381 (1996). * [8] D. T. Morelli and G. P. Meisner, J. Appl.
Phys. **77**, 3777 (1995). * [9] D. A. Gajewski, N. R. Dilley, E. D.
Bauer, E. J. Freeman, R. Chau, M. B. Maple, D. Mandrus, and B. C. Sales,
J. Phys.: Condens. Matter (to be published). * [10] C. Rossel, K. N.
Yang, M. B. Maple, Z. Fisk, E. Zirngiebl, and J. D. Thompson, Phys. Rev.
B **35**, 1914 (1987). * [11] B. C. Sales, D. Mandrus, and R. K.
Williams, Science **272**, 1325 (1996). * [12] T. Caillat, A.
Borshchevsky, and J. F. Fleurial, in _Proceedings of the Eleventh
International Conference on Thermoelectrics, Arlington, Texas, 1993_,
edited by K. R. Rao (University of Texas Press, Arlington, Texas, 1993),
p. 98. * [13] D. J. Singh and W. E. Pickett, Phys. Rev. B **50**, 11 235
(1994). * [14] C. B. H. Evers, W. Jeitschko, L. Boonk, D. J. Braun, and
T. Ebel, J. Alloys Compd. **224**, 184 (1995). * [15] D. N. Basov and S.
Dordevic (private communication). * [16] N. F. Mott, Proc. R. Soc.
London, Ser. A **153**, 699 (1936). * [17] W. C. M. Mattens, R. A.
Elenbaas, and F. R. de Boer, Commun. Phys. **2**, 147 (1977). * [18] N.
T. Stetson, S. M. Kauzlarich, and H. Hope, J. Solid State Chem. **91**,
140 (1991). * [19] D. J. Braun and W. Jeitschko, J. Less-Common Met.
**72**, 147 (1980).
