# Multigap superconductivity in single crystals of Ba0.65Na0.35Fe2As2: A
calorimetric investigation

A. K. Pramanik

M. Abdel-Hafiez

S. Aswartham

A. U. B. Wolter

S. Wurmehl

V. Kataev

B. Buchner

Institute for Solid State Research, IFW Dresden, D-01171 Dresden,
Germany

###### Abstract

We investigate the electronic properties and the superconducting gap
characteristics of a single crystal of hole-doped 122 Fe-pnictide
Ba0.65Na0.35Fe2As2 by means of specific-heat measurements. The specific
heat exhibits a pronounced anomaly around the superconducting transition
temperature T_(c) = 29.4 K and a small residual part at low temperature.
In a magnetic field of 90 kOe, the transition is broadened and T_(c) is
lowered insignificantly by an amount ∼1.5 K. We estimate a high
electronic coefficient in the normal state with a value 57.5 mJ mol⁻¹
K⁻², being consistent with hole-doped 122 compounds. The
temperature-dependent superconducting electronic specific heat cannot be
described with single-gap BCS theory under the weak-coupling approach.
Instead, our analysis implies a presence of two s-wave-like gaps with
magnitudes Δ₁(0)/k_(B)T_(c) = 1.06 and Δ₂(0)/k_(B)T_(c) = 2.08 with
respective weights of 48

pacs: 74.70.Xa, 74.25.Bt, 65.40.Ba, 74.20.Rp + Footnote †: preprint:
PHYSICAL REVIEW B **84**, 064525 (2011)

## I Introduction

The recent discovery of superconductivity (SC) in Fe-based pnictides [1]
has lead to wide research activities in both experimental and
theoretical frontiers of solid-state physics. [2, 3] This is primarily
because Fe-pnictides exhibit a high transition temperature T_(c), a
layered structure, and a proximity between magnetism and SC in their
phase diagram, a scenario reminiscent of cuprates. However, Fe-pnictides
are multiband metals where all five Fe-3d orbitals contribute to the
electronic structure in the vicinity of the Fermi surface (FS), a stark
contrast to cuprates, which are single-band Mott insulators. Detailed
band structure calculations, indeed, show that the FS in Fe-pnictides is
characterized by two electron-like cylinders around the M point and two
hole-like cylinders plus a three-dimensional (3D) heavy hole-like pocket
around the Γ point, therefore implying it is a possible multiband
superconductor. [4, 5]

As for superconductors in general, the central issue remains to
understand the superconducting gap symmetry and the mechanism for Cooper
pairing, which are still under debate in the case of Fe-pnictides. With
a weak electron-phonon coupling in this class of materials, [6, 7, 8]
theoretical calculations predict unconventional SC mediated by
antiferromagnetic (AFM) spin fluctuations and an s_(±)-type
superconducting gap symmetry where the order parameter requires a sign
change between different sheets of the FS. [5, 8, 9] Experimental
findings yet exhibit no consensus on the gap symmetry. For instance,
nearly isotropic two full gaps with different magnitudes are evidenced
in angle-resolved photoemission spectroscopy (ARPES) experiments for
both electron- and hole-doped 122 Fe-pnictides. [10, 11, 12, 13, 14] A
similar situation is observed in other studies, such as point contact
Andreev reflection spectroscopy (PCARS) [15] and penetration-depth
measurements. [16, 17, 18] On the other hand, the possible existence of
nodes is revealed in the temperature T dependence of penetration-depth
and nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) measurements for both the 122 and
1111 series. [19, 20] It can be mentioned that most of these
investigations (except NMR) are surface sensitive; therefore, sample
impurity or inhomogeneity at the surface may cause such contradicting
results.

In this situation, specific heat C rather provides a key source of
information regarding the bulk thermodynamic properties, exploring the
electronic and gap structure in materials. In addition, it probes the
system in equilibrium and low-energy states. Recent specific-heat
studies in different families of Fe-pnictides have explored dissimilar
gap properties with single to double gaps and even the presence of
nodes, and this variation appears to be related to the nature as well as
the level of doping. [21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28]

In this contribution we investigate the electronic properties and
superconducting gap characteristics in a hole-doped 122 compound,
Ba0.65Na0.35Fe2As2 (T_(c) = 29.4 K), by means of specific-heat
measurements. Although such investigations have been performed in great
detail for its K-doped analogues, Ba1${}_{\rm{-x}}$K_(x)Fe₂As₂, such
studies are lacking in the Na-doped 122 family. It is, however,
necessary to scrutinize how these properties are sensitive to different
dopant species with unlike sizes and chemistry, considering the fact
that the gap properties significantly modify with the nature of the
doping elements. To be precise, ARPES experiments reveal that for
hole-doped Ba0.65K0.4Fe2As2, the average gaps for the inner hole-like
and two electron-like cylinders are similar, with a large value of ∼12
meV, while the outer hole cylinder has a lower value, ∼6 meV. [10] In
contrast, for electron-doped BaFe1.85Co0.15As2, the study shows that the
inner hole pocket disappears, and average gaps of comparable sizes (6.6
and 5 meV) are observed in the outer hole and two electron cylinders.
[12] These observations underline that detailed investigations are
necessary in different compositional materials for a generalized
understanding of these issues.

Our results show a pronounced specific-heat anomaly at T_(c) where the
jump height is consistent with the T_(c) value according to recent
results on Fe-pnictides. This transition is minimally suppressed in
magnetic fields of 90 kOe. Our estimated electronic coefficient in the
normal state is high, in agreement with other hole-doped 122 compounds.
Our analysis further shows that the superconducting electronic specific
heat cannot be described with the single-band weak-coupling BCS scheme;
rather, it implies the presence of two s-wave-like gaps with different
magnitudes and contributions. These results have qualitative
similarities to K-doped materials. However, the quantitative difference
in the gap ratio may indicate the different density of states (DOS) in
respective bands and the different interband interaction in these
materials, hence highlighting the element-specific role of the dopant.

## II Experimental details

Single crystals of Ba_(0.65)Na_(0.35)Fe₂As₂ (BNFA) and BaFe₂As₂ (BFA)
used in the present study have been grown using a self-flux method. The
details of sample preparation and characterization are described
elsewhere.[29, 30] The parent compound, i.e., BaFe₂As₂ has been used to
estimate the lattice specific-heat contribution. The crystals have been
characterized with x-ray diffraction (XRD), which implies the absence of
any chemical impurity phase within the experimental accuracy. The
mentioned chemical compositions of this material have been determined by
energy dispersive x-ray analysis (EDX) spectroscopy performed at
different locations on the sample. For the sample BNFA, the Na variation
in the piece used is found within the instrumental error limit. A recent
study on polycrystalline Ba_(1 − x)Na_(x)Fe₂As₂ shows an unstable
crystallographic phase in Na-rich compositions where the material is
susceptible to chemical-impurity phases owing to the large mismatch in
the size of Ba²⁺ and Na¹⁺ ions.[31] In view of this, our results
regarding the crystal homogeneity are remarkable. The BNFA crystal used
in this study is about 2.47 x 1.98 x 0.13 mm³. The magnetization M data
have been collected using a SQUID-VSM (superconducting quantum
interference device - vibrating sample magnetometer) made by Quantum
Design. The heat capacity is measured along the crystallographic c axis
with a physical property measurement system (Quantum Design) using a
thermal relaxation technique down to 1.8 K and magnetic fields up to 90
kOe.

## III Results and discussions

In Fig. 1(a) we present the temperature dependence of the volume
susceptibility χ_(vol) measured following the zero-field-cooled (ZFC)
and field-cooled (FC) protocols for BNFA. χ_(vol) has been deduced from
the dc-magnetization data measured in a field of 20 Oe applied parallel
to the c axis. Care has been taken to correct the magnetization data for
the demagnetization effect where the demagnetization factor has been
estimated from an ellipsoidal approximation based on the dimensions of
the crystal.[32] The material exhibits bulk SC, which is evident from
the diamagnetic signal in the M_(ZFC) curve at low temperatures.
Although the ZFC and FC magnetization already start to bifurcate around
34 K, our material shows a sharp superconducting transition (width ∼1.5
K) around 29.7 K determined from the inflection point in dM_(ZFC)/dT.
However, similarly deduced χ_(vol) with H||ab plane (H = 5 Oe) shows a
clear bifurcation between the ZFC and FC magnetization data around 29.5
K, as evident from the inset in Fig. 1(a). This difference in the onset
of bifurcation between our ZFC and FC magnetization data for fields
applied along different crystallographic directions will be studied in
more detail in the future. Notably, χ_(vol) exhibits an almost full
diamagnetic shielding at low temperatures with fields parallel to both
the c axis and ab plane. These results are in support of the good
quality of our single crystal. The fact that M_(FC) > 0 for H||c axis
within the superconducting state seems to be an artifact in the data,
probably arising from flux trapping during the FC process, which is
likely for this field geometry due to layered structure in this
material. Figure 1(b) shows the same data presented in main panel of
Fig. 1(a) without demagnetization correction, demonstrating anomalies
are not significantly evident. We would like to mention that the onset
of negative magnetization at temperatures higher than the sharp
transition in Fig. 1 with H||c axis is not visible in the specific-heat
data, which exhibit a sharp jump around 29.4 K, as observed in the
M_(ZFC) curve (shown below).

The temperature dependence of the specific heat in the form C/T vs T is
shown in Fig. 2 for BFA in 0 Oe and for BNFA in 0 and 90 kOe. For our
further analysis, the electronic contribution to the specific heat
C_(el) is required for the material under study (BNFA). Since BNFA is
nonmagnetic, the subtraction of the lattice specific heat C_(ph) from
the total specific

Figure 1: (a) The volume susceptibility χ_(vol) after demagnetization
correction has been plotted as function of temperature. The χ_(vol) has
been deduced from the dc magnetization measured with H||c = 20 Oe
following ZFC and FC protocols for Ba_(0.65)Na_(0.35)Fe₂As₂. The inset
shows the similarly deduced χ_(vol) with H||ab plane (H = 5 Oe). (b) The
same data in the main panel of (a) have been plotted without
demagnetization correction.

Figure 2: (Color online) Temperature dependence of the specific heat C/T
measured in 0 and 90 kOe for Ba_(0.65)Na_(0.35)Fe₂As₂ and BaFe₂As₂. The
inset shows C/T vs T². The straight lines represent linear fits to C/T =
γ + βT² (see text).

heat $C_{\rm tot}$ will simply serve our purpose. Conventionally,
$C_{\rm ph}$ is estimated by suppressing the superconducting transition
in high magnetic fields. However, the upper critical field H_(c2) is
significantly high in this class of superconductors. Thus, we have
estimated $C_{\rm ph}$ from its parent compound BFA, which is not
superconducting throughout the temperature range, as evident from Fig.
2, where C/T does not exhibit any anomalous behavior as a function of
temperature. On cooling from room temperature, BFA exhibits a long-range
magnetic order of the AFM type paired with spin-density wave (SDW)
formation around 140 K,[33; 34] implying a likely magnetic contribution
to its specific heat. In fact, our specific-heat data show a sharp peak
around this AFM-SDW transition in BFA (not shown). However, a recent
neutron-scattering measurement has revealed that the energy gap for
low-energy spin-wave excitations in the magnetically ordered state is
about 9.8 meV (≡ 114 K) for this material.[35] Therefore, magnetic
contributions to the specific heat will be negligible in the range of
our working temperatures (<35 K), and the specific heat can be assumed
to consist of electronic and lattice contributions only.

The compound BNFA, on the other hand, shows an anomaly in C/T around
29.4 K (Fig. 2), which is marked by the superconducting transition. The
temperature where this anomaly appears is consistent with the sharp
superconducting transition in magnetization measurements (see Fig. 1).
The jump in the specific heat is reasonably pronounced with a ΔC/T_(c)
value around 84 mJ mol⁻¹ K⁻², which is comparable to other hole
(potassium) doped 122 compounds with a quantity around 100 mJ mol⁻¹
K⁻².[22; 23; 36] It is worth mentioning that the obtained ΔC/T_(c) for
the present material scales well with its T_(c) in light of recent
results of Fe-pnictides.[37] The specific heat measured in a magnetic
field of 90 kOe (Fig. 2) shows that the superconducting transition is
broadened and insignificantly shifted (∼1.5 K) in 90 kOe for BNFA, which
is expected from its high H_(c2) estimated to be above 100 T.[36; 38]

In the inset of Fig. 2, specific-heat data have been plotted in the form
C/T vs T² for the compounds BFA and BNFA. At low temperature, the data
can be linearly fitted to C/T = γ + βT², where γ and β are the
electronic and lattice coefficients of the specific heat,
respectively.[39] For BFA, we obtain γ = 6.13(8) mJ mol⁻¹ K⁻² and
β = 0.369(7) mJ mol⁻¹ K⁻⁴. From the obtained β value, we calculate the
Debye temperature θ_(D) following the relation
θ_(D) = [(12π⁴Rn)/(5β)]^(1/3), where R is the molar gas constant and n
is the number of atoms per formula unit.[39] This gives θ_(D) = 297 K
for BFA. The extracted value of γ in our crystal is consistent with
other studies on single crystals of BFA (∼6.1 mJ mol⁻¹ K⁻²)^(0.41) and
close to theoretically predicted values, i.e., 5.68 mJ mol⁻¹ K⁻² (Ref.
[42]) or 7.22 mJ mol⁻¹ K⁻² (Ref. [43]). The fact that the specific-heat
data C/T vs T² for BNFA exhibit a linear behavior at low temperatures
without any upturn discounts the possibility of Schottky-like
contributions in our sample under study.

The phononic contribution $C_{\rm ph}$ to the specific heat of BFA has
been determined following the relation
$C_{\rm ph}^{\rm BFA}=C_{\rm tot}^{\rm BFA}-C_{\rm el}^{\rm BFA}$, where
the $C_{\rm el}^{\rm BFA}$ is γ.[36]T. We find that the specific heat is
dominated by phonons in this region, i.e., around T_(c), $C_{\rm el}$ is
only about 10

The obtained high value of γ_(n) for BNFA is consistent with other
members in the hole-doped 122 series, whereas for

Figure 3: (Color online) The electronic specific heat $C_{\rm el}/T$ as
a function of temperature for the sample B_(0.65)Na_(0.35)Fe₂As₂. γ_(n)
and γ_(r) represent the normal-state and residual electronic
coefficients of the specific heat. The inset shows the entropy in the
normal and superconducting states as a function of temperature.

electron-doped 122 compounds γ_(n) is much lower (see Table 1).
Utilizing our value for γ_(n), we can obtain information about the
normal-state electronic properties, i.e., the DOS at the Fermi energy
N(ϵ_(F)) of BNFA, using the relation [46]

γ_(n) = γ₀(1 + λ),
(1)
$$\gamma_{0} = \frac{\pi^{2}k_{B}^{2}}{3}N(\epsilon_{F}),$$
(2)

where λ is the electron-phonon coupling constant and k_(B) is the
Boltzmann constant. Since in the case of Fe-pnictides λ is not
significant, we can set γ_(n) ≡ γ₀. Therefore, γ_(n) is mainly
contributed by N(ϵ_(F)), which implies a higher N(ϵ_(F)) in hole-doped
compounds than in electron-doped ones. From our γ_(n), we calculate
N(ϵ_(F)) = 24.37 states eV⁻¹ f.u.⁻¹. It is worth mentioning that the
generally high values of γ_(n) or N(ϵ_(F)) for hole-doped 122
Fe-pnictides remains controversial, with theoretical calculations
yielding γ_(n) = 13.03 mJ mol⁻¹ K⁻² and N(ϵ_(F)) = 5.526 states eV⁻¹
f.u.⁻¹ for Ba_(0.5)K_(0.5)Fe₂As₂, where the related values are only
around 20

After exploring the electronic specific heat and electronic structure,
we now examine the superconducting gap properties in BNFA. In many
cases, specific-heat measurements have already been proved to be an
effective tool in understanding the superconducting gap structure and
its distributions. [49, 50] For our sample, however, $C_{\rm el}$ first
needs to be corrected due to a finite $\gamma_{\rm r}$. At low
temperature $C_{\rm el}$ is assumed to be contributed by the
superconducting ($C_{\rm el,s}$) as well as the nonsuperconducting
normal (C_(n)) parts of the specific heat. While the normal electrons
will have specific-heat contributions linear in temperature
($\gamma_{\rm r}$, T), the superconducting electronic contribution will
be scaled by $1-\gamma_{\rm r}/\gamma_{n}$. On this basis, the sum of
the individual contributions to $C_{\rm el}$ allows us to extract
$C_{\rm el,s}$ from the following relation:

$$C_{\rm el,s}/T=\frac{\gamma_{n}}{\gamma_{n}-\gamma_{\rm r}}\left(C_{\rm el}/T -\gamma_{\rm r}\right).$$
(3)

In Fig. 4 we present the normalized data $C_{\rm el,s}/\gamma_{\rm r}T$
as a function of reduced temperature t ( = T/T_(c)) for BNFA. As
mentioned earlier, $C_{\rm el,s}/\gamma_{\rm r}T$ exhibits a broad hump
around t = 0.4, which implies the presence of multiple SC gaps in this
compound. We have analyzed our specific-heat data utilizing the α model,
which was originally proposed to account for the thermodynamic
properties of a strongly

Figure 4: (Color online) The normalized superconducting electronic
specific heat ($C_{\rm el,s}/\gamma_{\rm r}T$) of
Ba_(0.65)Na_(0.35)Fe₂As₂ as a function of reduced temperature t =
T/T_(c). The dashed line represents the theoretical curve based on
single-band weak-coupling BCS theory with the s-wave gap Δ(0)/k_(B)T_(c)
= 1.76, following Eq. (4) and (5). The solid lines represent the curves
of the two s-wave gap models (see text).

  ------------------------------- ----------- ------- --------------------------- ---------------- ------------------------------------------ ----------------------------
                                               T_(c)   $\Delta C_{\rm el}/T_{c}$       γ_(n)                                                  
  Compounds                          Ref.       (K)         (mJ mol⁻¹ K⁻²)         (mJ mol⁻¹ K⁻²)   α_(i) = Δ_(i)(0)/k_(B)T_(c), γ_(i)/γ_(n)  
  Ba_(0.65)Na_(0.35)Fe₂As₂1        This work   29.4              72.5                   57.5               α₁ = 1.06, γ₁/γ_(n) = 0.48         
                                                                                                                                               α₂ = 2.08, γ₂/γ_(n) = 0.52
  Ba_(0.6)K_(0.4)Fe₂As₂2              22       36.5              98.1                   63.3                α₁ = 1.945, γ₁/γ_(n) = 1          
  Ba_(0.65)K_(0.4)Fe₂As₂2             23       37.3              ∼100                    49                 α₁ = 2.07, γ₁/γ_(n) = 1           
  Ba_(0.68)K_(0.32)Fe₂As₂3            24       38.5              ∼120                    50                α₁ = 1.11, γ₁/γ_(n) = 0.5          
                                                                                                            α₂ = 3.3, γ₁/γ_(n) = 0.5          
  KFe₂As₂4                            25        3.5               ∼21                   69.1               α₁ = 0.3, γ₁/γ_(n) = 0.55          
                                                                                                           α₂ = 2.4, γ₂/γ_(n) = 0.45          
  Ba(Fe_(0.925)Co_(0.075))₂As₂5     26, 27     21.4               30                    23.8               α₁ = 0.95, γ₁/γ_(n) = 0.33         
                                                                                                           α₂ = 2.2, γ₂/γ_(n) = 0.67          
  Ba(Fe_(0.92)Co_(0.08))₂As₂6         28        20                ∼22                    18               α₁ = 0.957, γ₁/γ_(n) = 0.38         
                                                                                                          α₂ = 2.175, γ₂/γ_(n) = 0.62         
  ------------------------------- ----------- ------- --------------------------- ---------------- ------------------------------------------ ----------------------------

Table 1: The superconducting transition temperature T_(c), the jump
height of the electronic specific heat $\Delta C_{\rm el}/T_{c}$, the
normal-state electronic specific-heat coefficient γ_(n), and the
superconducting gap properties α_(i) and γ_(i)/γ_(n) extracted from
specific-heat measurements for Ba_(0.65)Na_(0.35)Fe₂As₂ along with other
hole- and electron-doped 122 Fe-pnictides. α_(i) and γ_(i)/γ_(n)
represent the zero-temperature gap ratio and its weight in the ith band,
respectively.

coupled single-gap superconductor under a semiempirical approach.[49]
This model, however, later had been generalized to explain the
specific-heat behavior in multiband, multigap superconductors, i.e.,
MgB₂.[50] Following this model, the thermodynamic properties like the
entropy S and C can be calculated for a system of independent
quasiparticles as[49, 50]

$$\frac{S}{\gamma_{n}T_{c}}= - \frac{6}{\pi^{2}}\frac{\Delta(0)}{k_{B}T_{c}}\int_{0}^{\infty} \!\!\!\int f\ln f+(1-f)\ln(1-f)]dy,$$
(4)
$$\frac{C}{\gamma_{n}T_{c}}=t\frac{d\left(S/\gamma_{n}T_{c}\right)}{ dt},$$
(5)

where f = [exp (βE) + 1]⁻¹ and β = (k_(B)T)⁻¹. The energy of the
quasiparticles is given by $E=\sqrt{\{\epsilon^{2}+\Delta^{2}(t)\}}$,
where ϵ is the energy of the normal electrons relative to the Fermi
surface. In Eq. (4), the integration variable y = ϵ/Δ(0), where Δ(0) is
the zero-temperature gap magnitude and the scaled gap
α = Δ(0)/k_(B)T_(c) is the only adjustable fitting parameter. The
temperature dependence of the gap is determined as Δ(t) = Δ(0)δ(t), with
δ(t) being obtained from the table in Ref. [51]. In the case of two
gaps, the thermodynamic properties are determined as the sum of
contributions from the two gaps, i.e., α₁ [=Δ₁(0)/k_(B)T_(c)] and α₂
[=Δ₂(0)/k_(B)T_(c)] with their respective weights γ₁/γ_(n) and γ₂/γ_(n),
where γ₁ + γ₂ = γ_(n).

Using Eqs. (4) and (5), we first calculate the specific heat
C_(el-s)/γ_(n)T as a function of t with α = 1.76 for the single-band
weak-coupling BCS theory. As evident from Fig. 4, the calculations
disagree significantly with our experimental data, where the former is
characterized by a higher jump anomaly at T_(c). Moreover, an opposite
curvature and different magnitude below and above t ≈ 0.55 can be
observed for the single-gap model compared to the experimental data. We
then calculate C_(el-s)/γ_(n)T, introducing two gaps and their
appropriate weights. Apparently, values α₁ = 1.06 [Δ₁(0) = 2.68 meV],
γ₁/γ_(n) = 0.48 and α₂ = 2.08 [Δ₂(0) = 5.27 meV], γ₂/γ_(n) = 0.52, yield
the closest matching with our experimental data (see Fig. 4). Figure 4
also shows the C_(el-s)/γ_(n)T vs t plot for an individual α and its
weights.

For the sake of comparison, we have summarized the values of scaled gaps
α₁ and α₂ and their respective weights, T_(c), ΔC_(el)/T_(c), and γ_(n)
for Ba_(0.65)Na_(0.35)Fe₂As₂ along with other hole- and electron-doped
122 materials in Table I. For BNFA, the larger gap α₂ has a higher value
than the weak-coupling BCS gap value (1.76), while the smaller one α₁
has a lower value. Although the gap magnitudes are scattered for
different compounds within the Ba-122 family, their relative weights
exhibit a consistent trend. Upon electron doping the smaller gap has
around 30

In the scenario of an interband pairing model for Fe-pnictides,[52] the
gap ratio is predicted as $\Delta_{2}/\Delta_{1}=\sqrt{N_{1}/N_{2}}$,
where N₁ and N₂ are the Fermi-level DOS in the respective bands, and
Δ₂/Δ₁ is shown to evolve with the effective coupling among the bands.
Therefore, one can speculate that the DOS in different bands as well as
their coupling modify with K¹⁺ and Na¹⁺ doping. Indeed, K¹⁺ and Na¹⁺
have different ionic sizes and electronic configurations, which may
contribute differently to these issues. However, the Δ₂/Δ₁ ratio implies
that N₁/N₂ in Ba_(0.68)K_(0.32)Fe₂As₂ is surprisingly about two times
higher than in Ba_(0.65)Na_(0.35)Fe₂As₂, which seems to be an unlikely
situation with just this kind of dopant variation (see Table I). On the
other hand, the fact that γ₁ ∼ γ₂ ∼ 0.5γ_(n) for both compounds implies
that both gaps open up at the FS with almost equal DOS, irrespective of
the dopant species. These observations probably suggest that the
theoretical discussions in Ref. [52] lead to include more than two
bands. In fact, ARPES results[10, 11] strongly hint toward the inclusion
of at least four bands (two hole-like and two electron-like bands)
opening the superconducting gaps in Ba_(1 − x)K_(x)Fe₂As₂. Also, the
need for four bands to describe the thermodynamic signatures has been
pointed out in theoretical calculations.[48] At the same time, one can
clearly see in Table I that within multigap analysis the smaller gap α₁
remains almost close to 1 for all materials (except for the extremely
hole-doped case KFe₂As₂). However, the larger one α₂, which appears in
the strongly nested inner hole-like and electron-like bands, varies with
both the doping elements and their concentration, illustrating that the
nesting condition is modified with the doping in Fe-pnictides, which is
quite intriguing.

It is worth mentioning here that the employed α model follows a simple
semiempirical approach where the superconducting gap is assumed to have
BCS temperature dependence and the interband coupling is not taken into
account. Despite such simplification this model has been extensively
used to analyze the experimental thermodynamic data for many kinds of
materials. While using the α model, we can categorically show that the
present system cannot be described with a single-gap approach; however,
to what extent the extracted fit parameters have physical meaning is
under question. One, therefore, certainly needs to check other
self-consistent models to compare the results. In this scenario, within
the framework of the Eliashberg approach for MgB₂ Dolgov _et al.[53]_
have shown that the α model is sufficiently accurate to find the
superconducting gap values, although the gap’s partial contribution
lacks full agreement. Another recently proposed γ model by Kogan _et
al.[54]_ is also an effective approach that takes into account the
interband pairing potential and is successfully tested for two band
superconductors, MgB₂ and V₃Si. Our experimental work calls therefore
for a detailed theoretical analysis of our data with these and other
appropriate models to fully understand the multigap superconducting
nature in Fe-pnictides. In addition, considering the fact that
superconducting gaps estimated by using different experimental
techniques such as ARPES, PCARS, or muon spin rotation (μSR) exhibit a
wide distribution of absolute values,[14] further studies involving
specific-heat measurements are required on doped 122 Fe-pnictides with
different kinds of doping elements as well as doping concentrations to
develop a comprehensive understanding and a generalized view on this
matter.

## IV Conclusions

In summary, the electronic properties and superconducting gap structure
of the hole-doped 122 Fe-pnictide Ba_(0.65)Na_(0.35)Fe₂As₂ are studied
by measuring specific heat. A reasonably pronounced anomaly has been
found around T_(c) = 29.4 K. In applied magnetic fields, the transition
becomes broadened; however, there is only a minimal decrease in T_(c) of
about 1.5 K in 90 kOe. Employing an entropy conservation criterion at
T_(c), we extract γ_(n) = 57.5 mJ mol⁻¹ K⁻², which agrees well with
other hole-doped 122 compounds. It is interesting that the
temperature-dependent superconducting electronic specific heat cannot be
explained within single-band weak-coupling BCS theory. From our analysis
we find that the presence of two s-wave-like gaps with magnitudes
Δ₁(0)/k_(B)T_(c) = 1.06 and Δ₂(0)/k_(B)T_(c) = 2.08 and respective
weights of about γ₁/γ_(n) = 0.48 and γ₂/γ_(n) = 0.52 matches well with
our experimental data. Though these results are qualitatively similar to
K-doped 122 compounds, on a quantitative level their gap magnitudes and
their ratios are quite different. This calls for further studies on
materials with different doping levels to reach a full understanding of
the gap structure and related mechanisms.

###### Acknowledgements.

We acknowledge fruitful discussions with V. Zabolotnyy. We thank M.
Deutschmann, S. Muller-Litvanyi, R. Muller, J. Werner, and S. Gass for
technical support. This work has been supported by the DFG, Germany,
through Grant Nos. BE 1749/13 and WO 1532/3-1.

## References

* (1) Y. Kamihara, T. Watanabe, M. Hirano, and H. Hosono, J. Am. Chem.
Soc. **130**, 3296 (2008). * (2) J. Paglione and R. L. Greene, Nat.
Phys. **6**, 645 (2010). * (3) D. C. Johnston, Adv. Phys. **59**, 803
(2010). * (4) D. J. Singh and M.-H. Du, Phys. Rev. Lett. **100**, 237003
(2008). * (5) I. I. Mazin, D. J. Singh, M. D. Johannes, and M. H. Du,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **101**, 057003 (2008). * (6) L. Boeri, O. V. Dolgov,
and A. A. Golubov, Phys. Rev. Lett. **101**, 026403 (2008). * (7) L.
Boeri, O. V. Dolgov, and A. A. Golubov, Phys. C. **469**, 628 (2009). *
(8) K. Kuroki, S. Onari, R. Arita, H. Usui, Y. Tanaka, H. Kontani, and
H. Aoki, Phys. Rev. Lett. **101**, 087004 (2008). * (9) A. V. Chubukov,
D. V. Efremov, and I. Eremin, Phys. Rev. B **78**, 134512 (2008). * (10)
H. Ding, P. Richard, K. Nakayama, K. Sugawara, T. Arakane, Y. Sekiba, A.
Takayama, S. Souma, T. Sato, T. Takahashi, Z. Wang, X. Dai, Z. Fang, G.
F. Chen, J. L. Luo, and N. L. Wang, Europhys. Lett. **83**, 47001
(2008). * (11) D. V. Evtushinsky, D. S. Inosov, V. B. Zabolotnyy, A.
Koitzsch, M. Knupfer, B. Buchner, M. S. Viazovska, G. L. Sun, V. Hinkov,
A. V. Boris, C. T. Lin, B. Keimer, A. Varykhalov, A. A. Kordyuk, and S.
V. Borisenko, Phys. Rev. B **79**, 054517 (2009). * (12) K. Terashima,
Y. Sekiba, J. H. Bowen, K. Nakayama, T. Kawahara, T. Sato, P. Richard,
Y.-M. Xu, L. J. Li, G. H. Cao, Z.-A. Xu, H. Ding, and T. Takahashi,
Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA **106**, 7330 (2009). * (13) L. Wray, D.
Qian, D. Hsieh, Y. Xia, L. Li, J. G. Checkelsky, A. Pasupathy, K. K.
Gomes, C. V. Parker, A. V. Fedorov, G. F. Chen, J. L. Luo, A. Yazdani,
N. P. Ong, N. L. Wang, and M. Z. Hasan, Phys. Rev. B **78**, 184508
(2008). * (14) D. V. Evtushinsky, D. S. Inosov, V. B. Zabolotnyy, M. S.
Viazovska, R. Khasanov, A. Amato, H.-H. Klauss, H. Luetkens, Ch.
Niedermayer, G. L. Sun, V. Hinkov, C. T. Lin, A. Varykhalov, A.
Koitzsch, M. Knupfer, B. Buchner, A. A. Kordyuk, and S. V. Borisenko,
New J. Phys. **11**, 055069 (2009). * (15) P. Samuely, Z. Pribulova, P.
Szabo, G. Pristas, S. L. Budko, and P. C. Canfield, Phys. C **469**, 507
(2009). * (16) R. Khasanov, D. V. Evtushinsky, A. Amato, H.-H. Klauss,
H. Luetkens, Ch. Niedermayer, B. Buchner, G. L. Sun, C. T. Lin, J. T.
Park, D. S. Inosov, and V. Hinkov, Phys. Rev. Lett. **102**, 187005
(2009). * (17) T. J. Williams, A. A. Aczel, E. Baggio-Saitovitch, S. L.
Budko, P. C. Canfield, J. P. Carlo, T. Goko, J. Munevar, N. Ni, Y. J.
Uemura, W. Yu, and G. M. Luke, Phys. Rev. B **80**, 094501 (2009). *
(18) C. Martin, M. E. Tillman, H. Kim, M. A. Tanatar, S. K. Kim, A.
Kreyssig, R. T. Gordon, M. D. Vannette, S. Nandi, V. G. Kogan, S. L.
Budko, P. C. Canfield, A. I. Goldman, and R. Prozorov, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**102**, 247002 (2009). * (19) R. T. Gordon, C. Martin, H. Kim, N. Ni,
M. A. Tanatar, J. Schmalian, I. I. Mazin, S. L. Budko, P. C. Canfield,
and R. Prozorov, Phys. Rev. B **79**, 100506(R) (2009). * (20) H.-J.
Grafe, D. Paar, G. Lang, N. J. Curro, G. Behr, J. Werner, J.
Hamann-Borrero, C. Hess, N. Leps, R. Klingeler, and B. Buchner, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **101**, 047003 (2008). * (21) G. Mu, X. Y. Zhu, L. Fang, L.
Shan, C. Ren, and H.-H. Wen, Chin. Phys. Lett. **25**, 2221 (2008). *
(22) G. Mu, H. Luo, Z. Wang, L. Shan, C. Ren, and H.-H. Wen, Phys. Rev.
B **79**, 174501 (2009). * (23) Ch. Kant, J. Deisenhofer, A. Gunther, F.
Schrettle, and A. Loidl, M. Rotter, and D. Johrendt, Phys. Rev. B
**81**, 014529 (2010). * (24) P. Popovich, A. V. Boris, O. V. Dolgov, A.
A. Golubov, D. L. Sun, C. T. Lin, R. K. Kremer, and B. Keimer, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **105**, 027003 (2010). * (25) H. Fukazawa, Y. Yamada, K.
Kondo, T. Saito, Y. Kohori, K. Kuga, Y. Matsumoto, S. Nakatsuji, H.
Kito, P. M. Mirage, K. Kihou, N. Takeshita, C.-H. Lee, A. Iyo, and H.
Eisaki, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **78**, 083712 (2009). * (26) F. Hardy, T.
Wolf, R. A. Fisher, R. Eder, P. Schweiss, P. Adelmann, H. v. Lohneysen,
and C. Meingast, Phys. Rev. B **81**, 060501(R) (2010). * (27) F. Hardy,
P. Burger, T. Wolf, R. A. Fisher, P. Schweiss, P. Adelmann, R. Heid, R.
Fromknecht, R. Eder, D. Ernst, H. v. Lohneysen, and C. Meingast,
Europhys. Lett. **91**, 47008 (2010). * (28) K. Gofryk, A. S. Sefat, E.
D. Bauer, M. A. McGuire, B. C. Sales, D. Mandrus, J. D. Thompson, and F.
Ronning, New J. Phys. **12**, 023006 (2010). * (29) S. Aswartham, C.
Nacke, G. Friemel, N. Leps, S. Wurmehl, N. Wizent, C. Hess, R.
Klingeler, G. Behr, S. Singh, and B. Buchner, J. Crystal Growth **314**,
341 (2011). * (30) S. Aswartham _et al._ (unpublished). * (31) R.
Cortes-Gil, D. R. Parker, M. J. Pitcher, J. Hadermann, and S. J. Clarke,
Chem. Mater. **22**, 4304 (2010).

* [12] J. A. Osborn, Phys. Rev. **67**, 351 (1945). * [13] M. Rotter, M.
Tegel, D. Johrendt, I. Schellenberg, W. Hermes, and R. Potten, Phys.
Rev. B **78**, 020503(R) (2008). * [14] Q. Huang, Y. Qiu, W. Bao, M. A.
Green, J. W. Lynn, Y. C. Gasparovic, T. Wu, G. Wu, and X. H. Chen, Phys
Rev. Lett. **101**, 257003 (2008). * [15] K. Matan, R. Morinaga, K.
Iida, and T. J. Sato, Phys. Rev. B **79**, 054526 (2009). * [16] U.
Welp, R. Xie, A. E. Koshelev, W. K. Kwok, H. Q. Luo, Z. S. Wang, G. Mu,
and H. H. Wen, Phys. Rev. B **79**, 094505 (2009). * [17] S. L. Bud’ko,
N. Ni, and P. C. Canfield, Phys. Rev. B **79**, 220516(R) (2009). * [18]
Z.-S. Wang, H.-Q. Luo, C. Ren, and H.-H. Wen, Phys. Rev. B **78**,
140501(R) (2008). * [19] E. S. R. Gopal, _Specific Heats at Low
Temperatures_ (Plenum, New York, 1966). * [20] J. K. Dong, L. Ding, H.
Wang, X. F. Wang, T. Wu, G. Wu, X. H. Chen, and S. Y. Li, New J. Phys.
**10**, 123031 (2008). * [21] A. S. Sefat, M. A. McGuire, R. Jin, B. C.
Sales, D. Mandrus, F. Ronning, E. D. Bauer, and Y. Mozharivskyj, Phys.
Rev. B **79**, 094508 (2009). * [22] F. Ma, Z.-Y. Lu, and T. Xiang,
Front. Phys. China **5**, 150 (2010). * [23] D. J. Singh, Phys. Rev. B
**78**, 094511 (2008). * [24] R. A. Fisher, N. E. Phillips, A.
Schilling, B. Buffeteau, R. Calemczuk, T. E. Hargreaves, C. Marcenat, K.
W. Dennis, R. W. McCallum, and A. S. O’Connor, Phys. Rev. B **61**, 1473
(2000). * [25] C. P. Poole Jr., H. A. Farach, R. J. Creswick, and R.
Prozorov, _Superconductivity_, 2nd ed. (Academic, Amsterdam, 2007). *
[26] C. Kittel, _Solid State Physics_, 8th ed. (Wiley, New York,
2005). * [27] I. R. Shein and A. L. Ivanovskii, JETP Lett. **88**, 107
(2008). * [28] L. Benfatto, E. Cappelluti, and C. Castellani, Phys. Rev.
B **80**, 214522 (2009). * [29] H. Padamsee, J. E. Neighbor, and A. C.
Shiffman, J. Low Temp. Phys. **12**, 387 (1973). * [30] F. Bouquet, Y.
Wang, R. A. Fisher, D. G. Hinks, J. D. Jorgensen, A. Junod, and N. E.
Phillips, Europhys. Lett. **56**, 856 (2001). * [31] B. Muhlschlegel, Z.
Phys. **155**, 313 (1959). * [32] O. V. Dolgov, I. I. Mazin, D. Parker,
and A. A. Golubov, Phys. Rev. B **79**, 060502(R) (2009). * [33] O. V.
Dolgov, R. K. Kremer, J. Kortus, A. A. Golubov, and S. V. Shulga, Phys.
Rev. B **72**, 024504 (2005). * [34] V. G. Kogan, C. Martin, and R.
Prozorov, Phys. Rev. B **80**, 014507 (2009).
