Superconductivity and spin fluctuations in {Th, U}Pt₄Ge₁₂ skutterudites

E. Bauer,¹ Xing-Qiu Chen,^(2, 5) P. Rogl,² G. Hilscher,¹ H. Michor,¹ E.
Royanian,¹ R. Podloucky,² G. Giester,³ O. Sologub,⁴ and A. P. Goncalves⁴

###### Abstract

Merging experimental data and _ab initio_ calculations, we report on
ThPt₄Ge₁₂ and UPt₄Ge₁₂ as further members of germanium-based
skutterudites. For ThPt₄Ge₁₂ electron-phonon coupled superconductivity
develops below T_(c)=4.75 K, ascribed to intrinsic features of the Pt-Ge
framework where Ge-_p_ states dominate the electronic structure at the
Fermi energy. Ruderman-Kittel-Kasuya-Yosida coupling via the Ge
framework is too weak to enable magnetic ordering in nonsuperconducting
UPt₄Ge₁₂.

pacs: 10.1103/PhysRevB.78.064516 + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL REVIEW
B **78**, 064516 (2008)

## I Introduction

Recently we have described the formation, crystal structure, and
superconducting properties of a class of skutterudite compounds
{Sr, Ba, Eu}Pt₄Ge₁₂ with a unique [Pt₄Ge₁₂] framework.[1, 2, 3] It was
shown that below about T_(c)=5 K, electron-phonon coupled
superconductivity (SC) emerges for the alkaline-earth compounds,
ascribed to intrinsic features of the Pt-Ge framework where Ge-_p_
states dominate the electronic structure at the Fermi energy. From
density-functional theory (DFT) calculations it was inferred that
although strongly localized Eu-4f states with their peak at 2 eV below
the Fermi energy give rise to a local magnetic moment of 7μ_(B) in
EuPt₄Ge₁₂, the Eu-_f_ states do not hybridize and do not induce any spin
polarization onto their neighbors and thus long-range magnetic order can
only arise at very low temperatures below 1.7 K. As a unique class of
Ge-based skutterudites was found to extend to 4f-electron systems
{La, Ce, Pr, Nd}Pt₄Ge₁₂,[4] the aim of the present work is a study of
the phase formation and crystal structure as well as the
characterization of bulk properties by means of resistivity,
magnetization, specific-heat, and band-structure calculations for
actinoid compounds {Th, U}Pt₄Ge₁₂.

While, in general, Th-based systems are in a nonmagnetic 4⁺ state,
(electronic configuration 5f⁰6s²7p²), thus behaving like simple systems,
the ground state of U is dominated by the partial occupation of the 5f
shell giving rise to a rich variety of magnetic features such as
long-range magnetic order or scenarios where the Stoner criterion is
just not fulfilled.[5] The latter may provoke magnetic spin
fluctuations, which may be revealed from the characteristic T³ln T
contribution to the heat capacity at low temperatures.

One of the key questions in the formation of Ge-based skutterudites
concerns the fact whether the addition of electrons, e.g., from Th⁴⁺ to
the [Pt₄Ge₁₂] sublattice will create stable compounds and modify the
electronic density of states (DOS) to enhance SC or drive the system
toward semiconducting behavior.

## II Experimental details

Alloys of {Th, U}Pt₄Ge₁₂ were prepared by argon arc melting. While
ThPt₄Ge₁₂ specimen was subsequently heat treated in evacuated quartz
capsules at 800 ^(∘)C for two weeks, UPt₄Ge₁₂ has to be directly
quenched from the melt with nominal composition U_(0.8)Pt₄Ge₁₂. Phase
purity and lattice parameters were derived from x-ray diffraction
indicating single-phase conditions for ThPt₄Ge₁₂ but a small amount of
nonmagnetic secondary phases (Ge+PtGe₂) for UPt₄Ge₁₂.

Bulk properties of these skutterudites were obtained by a number of
standard techniques, details are summarized below. A superconducting
quantum interference device magnetometer served for the determination of
the magnetization from 2 up to 300 K in fields up to 6 T, comparing
field-cooled and zero-field-cooled results. Specific-heat measurements
on samples of about 1 g were performed at temperatures ranging from 1.5
up to 170 K by means of a quasiadiabatic step heating technique in
external fields up to 0.2 T. The electrical resistivity was measured on
bar-shaped samples using a four-probe dc method in the temperature range
from 1.9 K to room temperature.

DFT was applied using the Vienna _ab initio_ simulation package (vasp)
(Refs. [6] and [7]) with a relativistic spin-orbit coupling approach.[8,
9] The Brillouin zone was sampled with 5×5×5 Monkhorst-Pack k⃗-point
grids. The exchange-correlation functional was treated within the
generalized gradient approximation utilizing the approach of Ref. [10].

## III Results and discussion

The crystal structure of ThPt₄Ge₁₂ (from Rietveld refinements) and
UPt₄Ge₁₂ (from Kappa-CCD single-crystal x-ray data at 300, 200, and 100
K) was found to be cubic and isotypic with the filled skutterudite-type
LaFe₄Sb₁₂.[11] Structure and lattice parameters are collected in Table
I. Occupation factors were refined, corresponding to a full occupancy of
the actinoid Pt and Ge sublattices. Although the Ge icosahedra are
significantly smaller than the corresponding Sb framework and therefore
effective bonding between the framework cages and the Th-center atoms is
ensured, temperature-dependent single-crystal x-ray data for UPt₄Ge₁₂
unambiguously defined a strong temperature dependency of atomic
displacement parameters (ADP) in the temperature region from 100 to 300
K for the smaller uranium atoms (see Fig. 1). Thus typical rattling
modes caused by uranium as filler atoms are derived from the atom
displacement parameters

$$U_{ii} = \frac{\hbar^{2}}{2m_{U}k_{B}\theta_{E,ii}}{\rm{coth}}\left( \frac{\theta_{E,ii}}{2T} \right)$$

obtained from structure refinement at three different temperatures
yielding an Einstein temperature of θ_(E) = 59 K (m_(U) is the mass of
uranium). The optimized structural parameters obtained from DFT
calculations are in reasonable agreement with x-ray structure data
(differences of <1

Temperature-dependent resistivity measurements carried out on ThPt₄Ge₁₂
indicate SC at T_(c) = 4.8 K [compare Figs. 2(a) and 2(b)] while results
for UPt₄Ge₁₂ do not exhibit SC down to 1.9 K [Fig. 2(a)]. This
significant difference in the ground states of both neighboring
compounds is already reflected in the temperature dependencies of the
resistivity in the normal-state region. Neither of the compounds,
however, show a simple metal-like resistivity behavior, i.e., the
Bloch-Gruneisen formula is not applicable in any case. Such a behavior
is known for many superconductors and may be attributed to a substantial
electron-phonon interaction strength responsible for the formation of
Cooper pairs in conventional superconductors. Rather, the overall ρ(T)
dependence of ThPt₄Ge₁₂ follows the phenomenological model of Woodard
and Cody, [12] which initially applied to A15 superconductors such as
Nb₃Sn. Least-squares fits to this model are shown as solid line in Fig.
2(a), revealing reasonable agreement with a characteristic temperature
T₀ = 131 K. Similar characteristic temperatures as well as similar but
slightly lower transition temperatures into the superconducting state
were observed recently for isomorphous {Sr, Ba}Pt₄Ge₁₂. [1] The residual
resistivity ρ₀ = 3 μΩ cm indicates good sample quality as well as the
complete filling of the voids by Th in the skutterudite structure.

The overall ρ(T) features of UPt₄Ge₁₂ turn out to be different. At low
temperatures, ρ(T) behaves according to ρ(T) = ρ₀ + AT^(n) with ρ₀ =
14.5 μΩ cm, A = 0.42 μΩ cm/K^(1.5), and n = 1.5. The latter refers to
distinct deviations from a Fermi-liquid ground state due to strong spin
fluctuations, which are evident also from a large value of the
Sommerfeld constant γ = 156 mJ/mol K² (see below). Moreover, classical
spin fluctuation systems such as YCo₂ exhibit–at elevated temperatures–a
tendency toward saturation, which can also be conceived from Fig. 2(a)
for UPt₄Ge₁₂.

The magnetic susceptibility χ of ThPt₄Ge₁₂ (see Fig. 3) is diamagnetic
in the normal-state region, revealing a temperature-independent
susceptibility χ = −1.5 × 10⁻⁷ cm³/g. At T = 4.8 K the sharp transition
provides evidence for SC, in perfect agreement with the resistivity
data. The diamagnetic value of [−1/4 π] for zero-field cooling
corresponds to a complete flux exclusion of the total sample volume due
to the screening currents. The flux expulsion (Meissner-Ochsenfeld
effect) for field cooling in 50 and 200 G is only 21

Figure 1: (Color online) Temperature-dependent atom displacement
parameters U_(eq) of the independent atom sites and lattice parameter σ
of UPt₄Ge₁₂. The solid line is a guide to the eye.

Figure 2: (Color online) (a) Temperature-dependent electrical
resistivity ρ of ThPt₄Ge₁₂ and UPt₄Ge₁₂. The solid line is a
least-squares fit as explained in the text. (b) Low-temperature
resistivity details evidencing superconductivity of ThPt₄Ge₁₂.

cates a rather strong flux pinning in a type II superconductor. With
growing external fields the transition is washed out and shifted to
lower temperatures and is suppressed in fields larger than 0.13 T above
2.2 K.

The heat capacity C_(p) of ThPt₄Ge₁₂ is plotted in Fig. 4 as C_(p)/T vs
T for various fields up to 0.2 T. The jump of C_(p)(T) below 5 K
evidences bulk SC. Idealizing the specific-heat anomaly under the
constraint of entropy balance between the superconducting and the normal
state, we arrive at T_(c) = 4.75 K. The entropy balance between the
superconducting and the normal state defines C_(p)/T(T=0) = 35(1) mJ/mol
K² and, furthermore, the heat capacity in the superconducting
[dashed-dotted line in Fig. 4(a)] and in the normal state [dashed line
in Fig. 4(a)] (i.e., measurements at 0 and 0.2 T, respectively), indeed
yields ΔS(T=T_(c)) = 0. To derive these extrapolations, the phonon
contribution is taken from the model sketched in Fig. 5 (see discussion
below). The BCS equation
C_(cS)(T)=8.5$\gamma T_{c}\exp(-0.82\Delta(0)/k_{\rm B}T)$ is applied in
order to describe the electronic contribution to C_(p)(T) in the
superconducting state [dashed-dotted line, Fig. 4(a)]. Here, Δ(0)
represents the superconducting gap at T= 0.

The inapplicability of a Debye-type extrapolation of C_(p)(T) toward low
temperatures (as usually applied in simple metallic systems)
demonstrates the existence of a complicated phonon spectrum in this
compound.

For a qualitative and quantitative description of the lattice dynamics,
we adapted a model comprising some fine structure in the phonon DOS
F(ω).[13, 14] Accordingly, the heat capacity is

$$C_{\mu\mu}(T)=3R\int_{0}^{\infty}F(\omega)\frac{\left(\frac{\omega}{2T}\right) ^{2}}{\sinh^{2}\left(\frac{\omega}{2T}\right)}d\omega,$$
(2)

with ω the phonon frequency and R the gas constant. The most common
assumptions on F(ω) are F(ω) = δ(ω) and F(ω) ∼ ω² up to a cut-off
frequency ω_(D), corresponding to the well-known Einstein and Debye
model, respectively. Junod _et al.[13]_ demonstrated that certain
functionals of the phonon specific heat take the form of convolutions of
the phonon spectrum. In particular, (5/4)Rπ⁴C_(ph)T⁻³ is an image of the
spectrum ω⁻²F(ω) for ω= 4.93T, where ω is expressed in degrees kelvin.
Based on these considerations we have constructed an elementary phonon
spectrum and have carried out least-squares fits to the data. Besides a
Debye DOS, we assumed that the system contains two additional
energetically separated Einstein-type modes ω₁ and ω₂. In contrast to
the standard Einstein model of the specific heat, a certain

Figure 4: (Color online) (a) Temperature-dependent specific heat C_(p)
of ThPt₄Ge₁₂ plotted as C_(p)/T vs T for various externally applied
magnetic fields. The dashed and the dashed-dotted lines are
extrapolations from the normal and superconducting states, respectively.
(b) Upper critical field μ₀H_(L2) of ThPt₄Ge₁₂. Data are taken from the
heat-capacity data. The solid line corresponds to the WHH model as
explained in the text.

Figure 5: (Color online) Temperature-dependent specific heat C_(p) of
ThPt₄Ge₁₂ plotted as (C_(p) − γT)/T³ vs ln T. The dashed line is a
least-squares fit of the experimental data using the model described in
the text with a Debye spectrum (θ_(D)=260 K) and two Einstein-type modes
($\omega_{\rm{EL},2}$ = 34.7 K with a width of 2.2 K and
$\omega_{\rm{EL},2}$ = 63.8 K with a width of 6.4 K). The solid line
(referring to the right axis) describes the phonon spectral function
F(ω) plotted as (4/5)Rπ⁴ω⁻²F(ω) vs ω/4.93. ω is given in degrees kelvin.

Figure 3: (Color online) Temperature-dependent susceptibility M/H of
ThPt₄Ge₁₂. The jump at T=T_(c) for 5G reveals a full Meissner effect.
Filled and open symbols refer to zero field and field cooling,
respectively.

frequency width D_o_ for each of these branches is allowed. Results of
this ansatz are shown in Fig. 5 as dashed line.

Based on this fit, the phonon spectra are constructed and plotted in
Fig. 5 referring to the right axis (solid line). The spectral weight
follows from the constraint that for T - 0 the height of the phonon DOS
coincides with the value of _C_p/_T_3 for T - 0. The low-lying phonon
branch may render those lattice vibrations which couple to the electron
system, thereby enabling BCS-type SC.

Within the McMillan model,15 the superconducting transition temperature
_T_c is given by

$$T_{c} = \frac{\theta_{D}}{1.45}\exp\left[ \frac{- 1.04(1 + \lambda)}{\lambda - \mu_{c}^{*}(1 + 0.62\lambda)} \right\rbrack,$$

where l is the dimensionless electron-phonon coupling constant related
in terms of the Eliashberg theory to the phonon DOS. l determines the
attractive part of the Cooper pair bonding while _m_* is the repulsive
screened Coulomb part, usually set to =0.13. Applying this simple model
yields l =0.66, referring to superconductors beyond the weak-coupling
limit.

Taking the jump of the specific heat D_C_p/_T_(_T_=_T_c) = 61(2) mJ/mol
K2, D_C_p/_(_g__T_c) is calculated to be 1.75, which is above the value
expected from the BCS theory [D_C_p/_(_g__T_c) = 1.43]. As the
magnetic-field strength increases, both the transition temperature and
the anomaly right at _T_c are suppressed, defining the phase diagram
shown in Fig. 4(b).

The superconducting gap D(0) of ThPt₄Ge₁₂ can be estimated from the
modified BCS expression _C__eq(T)_ = 8.5_g__T_c exp[-0.82D(0)/_k_B_T_].
Adjusting this model expression to our specific-heat data at lowest
temperatures, _C__eq(T)_ = _C__p(T)_ - _C__ph(T)_ reveals D = 0.72(1)
meV. The ratio D(0)/_k__B_T_c = 1.8 is in fine agreement with the BCS
value D_(BCS)(0) = 1.76_k__B_T_c.

The thermodynamic critical field is calculated from the free-energy
difference between the superconducting and normal state: D_F_(_T_) =
F_(n) - F_(s) = _m__0H_c(_T_)/2 = _T__T subtraction of C_(p)(T) of
isomorphous nonmagnetic ThPt₄Ge₁₂ fails since the C_(p)^(p) functions
intersect each other, i.e., C_(p)(T) of nonmagnetic ThPt₄Ge₁₂
summutations that of UPt₄Ge₁₂ for T> 12 K [see Fig. 6(b)], referring to
differences in the phonon spectrum. The observation of such a crossover
is not a unique feature of the U,ThPt₄Ge₁₂ systems but frequently occurs
in isostructural pairs of La, Ce or complementary Yb, LU compounds. In
all these cases, common explanations such as mass or volume differences
do not apply, indicating rather a magnetic origin.

Although the phonon spectra of both compounds are more complex than that
of a simple Debye solid, we attempted to fit the low-temperature data of
UPt₄Ge₁₂ with the ansatz C_(p)(T) = γT+ βT³+ δT³ ln(T/T^(*)), where the
latter term accounts for spin fluctuations. Satisfactory agreement is
found for γ=156 mJ/mol K² and T^(*)= 2.7 K [solid line, inset Fig.
6(a)], suggesting spin fluctuations in the nearly localized regime. The
sizable value of γ in combination with the δT³ ln(T/T^(*)) term,
however, prevents to reliably derive β and thus the Debye temperature
θ_(D).

Albeit the combination of lattice and magnetic contributions does not
allow a detailed analysis of lattice dynamics in UPt₄Ge₁₂. It should be
noted that from temperature-dependent ADP parameters an Einstein mode
for the U atoms was found at θ_(E)=59 K, in close analogy to the phonon
spectrum derived from the specific-heat analysis of ThPt₄Ge₁₂.

The calculated DOS, shown in Figs. 7(a) and 7(b), reveals the individual
contributions of the Th, Pt, and Ge atoms, of which germanium p- and
s-like states dominate the features of the DOS at E_(F). The
relativistic effect of spin-orbit coupling does not significantly
influence the DOS at E_(F). The directed covalent bonds of Ge intermixed
with the more metal-like charge distribution of Pt states contribute to
the peak of the DOS at E_(F). From Bader’s charge analysis,[21] about
0.13 electrons are transferred from each Ge to Pt, indicating only
weakly ionic Pt-Ge bonds.

The total DOS at E_(F) can be compared with the Sommerfeld value of the
specific heat γ=$\frac{1}{3}$π²N(E_(F))k_(B)². The experimental values
of about 35 mJ/mol K² for ThPt₄Ge₁₂ along with an electron-phonon
enhancement factor $\lambda_{\rm qp}$=0.66 (estimated via the McMillan
formula[15]) would require a bare DOS equivalent of ≈21 mJ/mol K², which
compares favorably with the DOS calculation involving spin-orbit
coupling; 22.7 mJ/mol K² and N(E_(F))= 9.63 states eV⁻¹ f. u⁻¹. Without
spin-orbit coupling, γ=20.1 mJ/mol K², documenting the insignificance of
relativistic effects.

For UPt₄Ge₁₂, however, the DFT calculations (not shown here) do not
disclose any magnetic ordering, thereby confirming experimental
observations. The total DOS at E_(F) of 16.21 states eV⁻¹ f. u⁻¹ is
significantly larger than that of ThPt₄Ge₁₂. The corresponding
Sommerfeld value γ =38.2 mJ/mol K² turns out to be smaller than the
experimental value of 156 mJ/mol K² pointing toward the pronounced
effect of spin fluctuations.

## IV Summary

The Th,UPt₄Ge₁₂ compounds are further representatives of family of
skutterudites with a [Pt₄Ge₁₂] sublattice. Resistivity,
magnetic-susceptibility and specific-heat measurements indicate a
phonon-mediated superconducting state in ThPt₄Ge₁₂ below T_(c)=4.75 K.

Superconducting properties of ThPt₄Ge₁₂ have been analyzed in detail
[μ₀H_(c2)(0)=0.21 T, ξ₀=4×10⁻⁸ m, λ(0) =1.2×10⁻⁷], characterizing
ThPt₄Ge₁₂ as a type II superconductor in the proximity of the clean
limit. UPt₄Ge₁₂ is dominated by spin fluctuations at low temperatures,
preventing magnetic order and SC. DFT calculations proved the
hybridization between Ge 4p-like and Pt 5d-like states in an energy

Figure 6: (Color online) (a) Temperature-dependent specific heat C_(p)
of UPt₄Ge₁₂ plotted as C_(p)/T vs T. The inset shows low-temperature
details and the solid line is a least-squares fit based on a spin
fluctuation model. (b) Low-temperature heat capacity of ThPt₄Ge₁₂ and
UPt₄Ge₁₂ plotted as C_(p)/T vs T.

Figure 7: (Color online) DOS for ThPt₄Ge₁₂ as derived from DFT
calculations. Fermi energy is situated at zero energy. The upper half
(a) shows the density of states for a fully relativistic calculation,
which includes spin-orbit coupling. The lower half (b) of the figure
presents the DOS of a standard nonrelativistic calculation. The total
DOS is decomposed into the local DOS representative for one Th, four Pt,
and twelve Ge atoms. The graphs clearly demonstrate the very dominant
character of Ge states particularly at Fermi energy. These states are of
expressed p-like character. The relativistic effect is small.

region around the Fermi level, dominating the DOS at E_(F).
Consequently, SC arises primarily from the electronic [Pt₄Ge₁₂]
sublattice states while Th (and U) plays a key role to electronically
stabilize these skutterudites.

During revision of the paper we learned that SC in ThPt₄Ge₁₂ was
recently also discovered by Kaczorowski and Tran.[22]

###### Acknowledgements.

Work supported by the Austrian science foundation FWF Projects No.
P18054 and No. P16778/2. X.Q.C. is grateful to the partial support of
the National Nature Science Fund of China (Project No. 50604004). P.R.
is grateful to COST P16 "ECOM" for a short term mission in ITN.

## References

* [1] E. Bauer, A. Grytsiv, Xing-Qiu Chen, N. Melnychenko-Koblyuk, G.
Hilscher, H. Kaldarar, H. Michor, E. Royanian, G. Giester, M. Rotter, R.
Podloucky, and P. Rogl, Phys. Rev. Lett. **99**, 217001 (2007). * [2] A.
Grytsiv, Xing-Qiu Chen, N. Melnychenko-Koblyuk, P. Rogl, E. Bauer, G.
Hilscher, H. Kaldarar, H. Michor, E. Royanian, R. Podloucky, M. Rotter,
and G. Giester, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **77**, 121 (2008). * [3] E. Bauer,
A. Grytsiv, X.-Q. Chen, N. Melnychenko-Koblyuk, G. Hilscher, H.
Kaldarar, H. Michor, E. Royanian, M. Rotter, R. Podloucky, and P. Rogl,
Adv. Mater. (Weinheim, Ger.) **20**, 1325 (2008). * [4] R. Gumeniuk, W.
Schnelle, H. Rosner, M. Nicklas, A. Leithe-Jasper, and Yu. Grin, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **100**, 017002 (2008). * [5] V. Sechovsky and L. Havela, in
_Handbook of Magnetic Materials, Volume 11_, edited by K. H. J. Buschow,
Elsevier, Amsterdam, 1998, p. 1. * [6] G. Kresse and J. Furthmuller,
Comput. Mater. Sci. **6**, 15 (1996). * [7] G. Kresse and J.
Furthmuller, Phys. Rev. B **54**, 11169 (1996). * [8] P. E. Blochl,
Phys. Rev. B **50**, 17953 (1994). * [9] G. Kresse and D. Joubert, Phys.
Rev. B **59**, 1758 (1999). * [10] J. P. Perdew, K. Burke, and M.
Ernzerhof, Phys. Rev. Lett. **77**, 3865 (1996). * [11] W. Jeitschko and
D. J. Braun, Acta Crystallogr., Sect. B: Struct. Crystallogr. Cryst.
Chem. **33**, 3401 (1977). * [12] D. W. Woodard and G. D. Cody, Phys.
Rev. **136**, A166 (1964). * [13] A. Junod, D. Bichsel, and J. Mueller,
Helv. Phys. Acta **52**, 580 (1979). * [14] A. Junod, T. Jarlborg, and
J. Muller, Phys. Rev. B **27**, 1568 (1983). * [15] W. L. McMillan,
Phys. Rev. **167**, 331 (1968). * [16] N. R. Werthamer, E. Helfand, and
P. C. Hohenberg Bell, Phys. Rev. **147**, 295 (1966). * [17] K. Maki,
Phys. Rev. **148**, 362 (1966). * [18] K. M. Wong, E. J. Cotts, and S.
J. Poon, Phys. Rev. B **30**, 1253 (1984). * [19] R. R. Hake, Phys. Rev.
**158**, 356 (1967). * [20] T. P. Orlando, E. J. McNiff, Jr., S. Foner,
and M. R. Beasley, Phys. Rev. B **19**, 4545 (1979). * [21] G.
Henkelman, A. Arnaldsson, and H. Jonsson, Comput. Mater. Sci. **36**,
254 (2006). * [22] D. Kaczorowski and V. H. Tran, Phys. Rev. B **77**,
180504(R) (2008).
