# Tunneling spectroscopy of the normal-state gap in (Bi,
Pb)2Sr2Ca2Cu3O10+ _δ_

Toshikazu Ekino*

Faculty of Integrated Arts and Sciences, and Graduate School of Advanced
Sciences of Matter, Hiroshima University, Higashi-Hiroshima 739-8521,
Japan

Satoru Hashimoto and Tomo’aki Takasaki

Department of Quantum Matter, Graduate School of Advanced Sciences of
Matter, Hiroshima University, Higashi-Hiroshima 739-8526, Japan

Hironobu Fujii

Faculty of Integrated Arts and Sciences, Hiroshima University,
Higashi-Hiroshima 739-8521, Japan

Received 7 June 2000; revised manuscript received 7 December 2000;
published 14 August 2001

###### Abstract

Tunneling spectra have been measured on as-grown (Bi, Pb2Sr2CaCu3O10+
_δ_ with _T_c = 110 K using a ceramic break junction. The
superconducting-gap size is in scale with that of as-grown
Bi2Sr2CaCu2O8+ _δ_ (_T_c = 86 K). The closing temperatures _T_* of the
normal-state gap are found to be  170 and  250 K, which are similar to
_T_* of Bi2212. The tunneling conductance displays a distinction between
the superconducting gap and the normal-state gap around _T_c. Near room
temperature, the zero-bias conductance enhancement is observed, which
could reflect the energy-gap spectrum with a different conduction
mechanism from tunneling (e.g., the Andreev scattering).

pacs: 10.1103/PhysRevB.64.092510PACS number(s): 74.72.Hs, 74.50.+r,
74.25.Jb, 74.80.-g There are numbers of experimental evidences for the
gap creation above the superconducting transition temperature _T_c in
the copper oxides.[1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6] Such a gap is considered to be due
to the spin gap, the pairing fluctuation, the charge/spin density wave,
or the charge stripe formation.[7, 8, 9] Intensive studies have been
made on Bi2Sr2CaCu2O8+ _δ_(Bi2212) to elucidate its origin.[2, 3, 4, 5,
6] The intercalated Bi2212 has been also investigated, in which the CuO2
bilayer is believed to be responsible for the normal-state gap
creation.[6] Since Bi2Sr2CaCu3O10+ _δ_ (Bi2223) is one of the homologous
series of Bi2Sr2CaCu2O4+ _δ_(_n_ denotes the numbers of CuO2 layers per
unit cell), the existence of normal-state gap is also expected. Further,
the possible difference in the antiferromagnetic coupling constant J
between Bi2212(_n_ = 2) and Bi2223(_n_ = 3) would result in the
difference in energy scales of the normal-state gap in terms of magnetic
origin.[10] The measurements of Bi2223 should be therefore effective to
insight into the underlying mechanism of the normal-state gap. However,
only a few tunneling measurements have been available on this
compound.[11, 12]

In this paper, we investigate the normal-state gap in Bi2223 to address
this issue. The polycrystals of Bi22-PbSr2Ca2Cu3O10+ _δ_ (_x_ = 0.1, y <
0.5) are used for the experiment, which were grown by a solid-state
reaction. Tunneling measurements were done using the break junction with
a four-probe method. The sample was cracked at T = 77 K to find the
stable gap feature near _T_c.

Figure 1 shows the tunneling conductance for Bi2223 taken from several
different junctions at 77.3 K (_T_/_T_c 0.7). In the inset, the T
dependence of the resistivity r and the deviation from its linearity is
shown. The _T_c(_r_ = 0) = 110 K is obtained, which is consistent with
that from the predominant onset of decrease in the susceptibility. The
curves A and B possess the well-defined outer humps which look similar
to the other break junction[4, 5] and interlayer tunneling results,[6]
while the curves C, D, and E are quite different from these data. The
inner gap edge peaks at +-63-68 mV corresponds to +-2 D/_e_ of the
superconductor-insulator-superconductor (SIS) junction, where 2D is the
superconducting energy gap defined by half the peak-to-peak separation
(_V__p__p__p_) in the conductance. The gap value of D(77.3 K) = 32-34
meV is consistent with D(4 K) = 37-39 meV.[11] and it is also in scale
with that of as-grown (slightly overdoped) Bi2212.[4] In the curves C-E,
_only_ the single gap is observed. The bias positions of their
conductance peaks coincide with either the superconducting-gap edge (C)
or the outer humps (D and E) of A and B. The gap-edge peaks of D and E
are broadened as compared with the superconducting-gap edge of A and B.
These large variations of gap size might be due to intergrain tunneling
with different crystallographic orientations. Nevertheless, the re

Figure 1: Tunneling conductance for Bi2223 at 77.3 K taken from
different break junctions. The inset shows the T dependence of the
resistivity _r_(_T_) and its deviation from the linearity.

producible two distinct biases of ± 60−70 mV and ± (160 ± 30) mV are
observed as in the case of Bi2212 single crystal.[13, 14] Therefore, the
above phenomenon seems to be not the case. The observation of the single
gap indicates that the double-peak structure in A and B is probably not
inherent to the superconducting density of states. Further, the
single-gap feature of D and E with the energy corresponding to that of
outer humps of the superconducting gap is seen close to room temperature
in both break-junction and interlayer-tunneling spectra.[6, 14] This
suggests that the origins of the superconducting gap and the outer humps
are different. One of the origins of the larger gap causing the outer
hump structure can be associated with the semiconducting gap of Bi-O
layers.[15, 16, 17]

Figure 2 shows T variations of the tunneling conductance taken from
another junction. In our measurements, the width of the tunneling
barrier could not be kept constant with the change in T because of the
thermal expansion of the junction. However, once a stable junction is
formed at low T, the magnitude of high-bias conductance varies slowly
upon warming, while the zero-bias dip is filled quickly reflecting the
thermal reduction of the gap. In the figure, the Josephson peak
completely disappears at _T_(c)_ = 106 K, but the gap feature still
persists beyond _T_(c)_ where the gap edge becomes sharp. Just above
_T_(c)_ , the gap-edge broadening and the gap-width expansion occur
simultaneously. Upon further warming, the ingap state is gradually
filled with the well-defined gap edge up to ≈150 K, and then it merges
into the background at the gap-closing temperature _T^(*)≈_ 170 K. This
value is similar to ≈180 K of as-grown Bi2212.[5] For T >_T^(*)_, the
background conductance is almost flattened.

To evaluate the tunneling data, we have carried out the conductance
fitting assuming the broadened BCS density of states
|Re((E − iΓ)/[(E − iΓ)² − Δ_(fit)²])| with thermal smearing
[ = N(E, Δ_(fit), Γ, T)], where Δ_(fit) and Γ are the fitted gap value
and a phenomenological broadening parameter, respectively.[18] Although
the use of N(E, Δ_(fit), Γ, T) for the superconducting gap of Bi2223 is
not guaranteed theoretically, the substantial agreements have been
obtained in the case of the homologous Bi2212.[13] In the normal state,
there is also no justified density-of-states model. Nevertheless, we try
to fit to examine whether it is applicable or not. Figure 3(a) shows the
representative fitting results in the T region below and above _T_(c)_ .
The ingap conductance is fairly well reproduced by N(E, Δ_(fit), Γ, T)
with appropriate Δ_(fit) and Γ at a given T, where no mutual conductance
offsets are given in both the experimental and calculated curves. This
means that the leakage conductance of this tunnel junction is almost due
to the density-of-states broadening with Γ. The disagreement outside the
gap could be reduced using the normalized conductance by the background.
The fitting parameters, however, are similar because of the weak bias
dependence of the ingap background. If the gap anisotropy is averaged
out by the intergrain tunneling, the V-shaped gap should be observed at
low_T_,[19] but this is not the case here.

In Fig. 3(b), the T dependence of Δ_(fit) and Γ is shown. At 85 K,
4 Δ_(fit)≈100 meV almost agrees with V_(p ⋅ p)^(m)≈115 mV. The Γ is much
smaller than Δ_(fit) below _T_(c)_ , but it becomes comparable to
Δ_(fit) at _T_(c)_ . It begins to increase quickly just above _T_(c)_ to
become Γ>Δ_(fit), and eventually saturates at Γ≈ 1.5Δ_(fit) above ≈ 115
K. The rapid increase of Δ_(fit) above _T_(c)_ on warming with the large
increase of Γ is remarkable. This is probably not solely due to the
increasing normal-state sample resistance _R_(s)_ because of R_(f)≈500 Ω
(300 mV)] ≫_R_(s)_(<1 mΩ) and only the Γ is largely different across
_T_(c)_ . The condition Γ>Δ_(fit) for _T>T_(c)_ implies incoherent or
non

Figure 3: (a) Comparison between the conductance of Fig. 2 (solid line)
and N(E, Δ_(fit), Γ, T) (broken line) (Ref. [18]). No mutual vertical
offsets for each comparison. (b) Temperature dependence of the fitted
gap Δ_(fit) and Γ obtained from the above fitting. The inset shows the
temperature dependence of the conductance-peak separation _V_(p ⋅ p)_
obtained from Fig. 2. The dotted line represents the BCS prediction.

Figure 2: Temperature variations of the tunneling conductance for a
Bi2223 break junction.

bulk nature of the gap, which also might suggests the formation of the
different kind of density of states from that below T_(c) with
Γ<$\Delta_{\rm fit}$. The inset of Fig. 3(b) shows the T dependence of
the model-independent V_(p ⋅ p) . With increasing T, the V_(p ⋅ p)
decreases to take a minimum at T_(c) = 106 K and then increases to
saturate at ≈115−120 K. In the narrow T interval near T_(c) , the
V_(p ⋅ p) changes rapidly. The structure again occurs at ≈130 K. The
behavior of V_(p ⋅ p)(T) roughly resembles the sum of
$\Delta_{\rm fit}(T)$ and Γ(T). The T of ≈120−130 K agrees with the
extrapolated gap-closing temperature $T_{c}^{\rm ex}$ = 125 K using a
BCS dependence.[12] This means that the superconducting gap remains
finite at T_(c) = 106 K though it is assumed to eventually disappear at
$T_{c}^{\rm ex}$ . In fact, a weak break in ρ(T) is observed at ≈ 125
K.[20] The recent photoemission measurements of Rast _et al.[21]_
obtained the similar results to ours, in which they argue the competing
T dependence of the gap in terms of two different order parameters of
the electronic phase transitions. Such a competition has been also
predicted by the calculation assuming the coexistence of the
superconductivity and CDW.[8] When we assume the precursor
superconductivity above T_(c) , the competing crossover near T_(c) might
suggest the different pairing symmetries below and above T_(c) .

Figure 4(a) shows T variations of tunneling conductance up to near room
temperature with much higher biases. The R_(J) is much higher (≈
10²−10³) than that of Fig. 2. The conductance background becomes a V
shape above ≈120 K. The gap feature diminishes at T* ≈ 170−180 K,
remaining a weak zero-bias depression which merges into the background
at ≈230−250 K. In Fig. 4(b), the well-defined gap edge is visible at
least up to ≈226 K using the different junction. The T dependence of the
normalized zero-bias conductance, [NZB(T)] in Fig. 4(c) exhibits the gap
disappearance more clearly. The NZBC(T), which is defined as the gap
depth divided by the high-bias (≈500 mV) conductance, is introduced to
reduce the effect of the thermal expansion thus the barrier width of the
junction. This is based on the fact that the thermal variations of the
conductance at zero bias is much larger than that at high biases. Using
this procedure, the thermal evolution of the electronic properties can
be separated from the thermal expansion of the junction.[22] The curves
A and B are taken from (a) and (b), respectively, while the C from
another junction not presented here. Every NZBC(T) demonstrates the
increasing trend with T in accordance with the thermal filling up of the
gap. The distinct steplike structures occurring at ≈110 and ≈170 K in A
and C correspond to T_(c) and T*, respectively. The additional subtle
break is visible at ≈130−140 K for A and C, and the gradual depression
below ≈250 K for A. The former temperature is probably related with
$T_{c}^{\rm ex}$ as discussed in Fig. 3, while the latter is consistent
with the extrapolated T* ≈ 250 K of B. The substantial variations in T*
with the reproducible superconducting gap size and T_(c) among the
examined junctions indicate that the T* variations are not closely
related to the change in the doping rate responsible for the bulk
superconductivity below T_(c) . The similar reproducible values of T* ≈
170 and ≈250 K are also observed in as grown Bi2212.[5, 14] These
observations seem to be incompatible with the prediction that T* would
scale between Bi2212(n = 2) and Bi2223(n = 3) compounds arising from the
possible difference in J[J(n = 3)>J(n = 2)].[10] These common values of
T* = 170 and ≈ 250 K against the systematic difference in T_(c) (the
superconducting gap) between the compounds with n = 2 and 3 could be
explained in terms of the local order parameters from the particular
electronic phases. In fact, the abrupt depression of NZBC(T) just below
T* resembles that for the gap due to the electronic phase transition,[5,
14] though it is not due to the bulk phenomenon. From the reduction in
NZBC(T), the volume fraction of the gapped phase just above T_(c) could
be estimated as ≈3−4

Figure 5 shows evidence for the distinction of the superconducting gap
and the outer humps. The superconducting gap disappears at T_(c) , while
the outer humps stay almost unchanged across T_(c) to become single gap
above T_(c) . This feature is in contrast to Fig. 2 but is rather
similar to Fig. 4(a). The gap is still clearly seen at 284.2 K. The
variations of the crossover behaviors in Figs. 2, 4(a), and 5 suggest
the existence of the different kinds of the normal-state gaps or

Figure 4: (a) and (b) Temperature variations of the tunneling
conductance from different Bi223 break junctions. (c) Temperature
dependence of the normalized zero-bias conductance NZBC(T). The curves A
(a), B (b), and C are taken from the different junctions.

the different control parameters for their appearances.[14] By
considering the results of intrinsic interlayer (c-axis)-tunneling
measurements on Bi2212 showing the coexistence of the superconducting
gap and the normal-state gap,[6] the interface geometry of the junction
may be responsible for the differences observed here. To evaluate the
shape of the gap at 284.2 K, the conductance is fitted by
$N(E,\Delta_{\rm fit},\Gamma,T)$ with SIS tunneling. The dashed curve is
obtained with $\Delta_{\rm fit}$ = 90 meV and Γ = 100 meV. The condition
Γ > $\Delta_{\rm fit}$ implies incoherent nature of the normal-state
gap. The calculated curve agrees with the experimental one for the
positive bias without any vertical offset, indicating that the
conductance leakage comes from the broadening of the gap. The asymmetry
in the conductance is probably due to the charge imbalance or the
rectification at the junction.

In addition to the normal-state tunneling gap, we have observed the
broad zero-bias hump near room temperature by readjusting the junction
(Fig. 5 bottom curve). In the superconducting state, such a hump is
attributed to the weak link or the Andreev scattering at the
junction.[26] However, the present case is in the normal state.
Nevertheless, the occurrence of the Andreev-like scattering arising from
the pair formation within the correlation length near the interface
cannot be excluded, because the bias positions of the conductance minima
agrees with those for the gap energy, and the hump displays a moderate
magnitude ≈20

In summary, we present tunneling measurements of the normal-state gap of
as-grown Bi2223(n = 3) ceramics using the break junction. The
reproducible T^(*) values below room temperature are found to be ≈ 170
and ≈250 K. The coexistence of the superconducting gap and normal-state
gap is also observed around T_(c) . These features are similar to those
of as-grown Bi2212(n = 2), supporting the idea that the superconducting
gap and the normal-state gap are not directly related each other. Near
room temperature, the gap structure as well as the zero-bias conductance
enhancement are observed, which would deserve to further investigation
in terms of the possible pairing formation.

## References

* [1] H. Ding _et al._, Nature (London) **382**, 51 (1996). * [2] Ch.
Renner _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **80**, 149 (1998). * [3] Y. I.
Latushev _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **82**, 5345 (1999). * [4] N.
Miyakawa _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **80**, 157 (1998). * [5] T. Ekino
_et al._, Phys. Rev. B **60**, 6916 (1999). * [6] A. Yurgens _et al._,
Int. J. Mod. Phys. B **13**, 3758 (1999); V. M. Krasnov _et al._, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **84**, 5860 (2000). * [7] V. J. Emery and S. A. Kivelson,
Nature (London) **374**, 434 (1995). * [8] M. V. Eremin _et al._,
Physica B **259−261**, 456 (1999). * [9] V. V. Moshchalkov _et al._,
Europhys. Lett. **46**, 75 (1999). * [10] D. Munoz _et al._, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **84**, 1579 (2000). * [11] Q. Chen _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **49**,
6193 (1994). * [12] T. Ekino _et al._, J. Low Temp. Phys. **117**, 359
(1999). * [13] Ya. G. Ponomarev _et al._, Physica C **315**, 85 (1999);
S. I. Vedeneev _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **49**, 9823 (1994). * [14] T.
Ekino _et al._, J. Phys. Chem. Solids **62**, 149 (2001). * [15] T.
Haswgawa and K. Kitazawa, Jpn. J. Appl. Phys. **29**, L434 (1990). *
[16] Y. Sezaki, T. Ekino, and H. Fujii, Physica B **259−261**, 555
(1999). * [17] C. Howard, P. Fournier, and A. Kapitulnik,
cond-mat/0101251 (unpublished). * [18] R. C. Dynes, V. Narayanamurti,
and J. P. Garno, Phys. Rev. Lett. **41**, 1509 (1978). * [19] L. Ozyuzer
_et al._, Phys. Rev. B **57**, 3245 (1998). * [20] C. H. Kao _et al._,
Physica C **235−240**, 483 (1994). * [21] S. Rast _et al._, Europhys.
Lett. **51**, 103 (2000). * [22] T. Ekino _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **53**,
5640 (1996). * [23] W. Chen _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **60**, 3527
(1999). * [24] R. Schilling _et al._, Nature (London) **363**, 56
(1993). * [25] R. P. Sharma _et al._, Nature (London) **403**, 736
(2000). * [26] T. M. Klapwijk _et al._, Physica B **109−110**, 1657
(1982). * [27] H. Y. Choi _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **61**, 9748 (2000).

Figure 5: Tunneling conductance at  ≈ T_(c) and near room temperature.
The broken line for the 284.2 K data represents
$N(E,\Delta_{\rm fit},\Gamma,T)$ (Ref. [18]).
