Effects of superconducting gap anisotropy on the flux flow resistivity
in Y(Ni_(1 − x)Pt_(x))₂B₂C

K. Takaki,* A. Koizumi, T. Hanaguri,+ M. Nohara, H. Takagi, and K.
Kitazawa

Department of Advanced Materials Science, The University of Tokyo,
7-3-1, Hongo, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 113-0033, Japan

Y. Kato, Y. Tsuchiya,++ H. Kitano, and A. Maeda

Department of Basic Science, The University of Tokyo, 3-8-1, Komaba,
Meguro-ku, Tokyo 153-8902, Japan

Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL REVIEW B **66**, 184511 (2002)

###### Abstract

The microwave complex surface impedance Z_(s) of Y(Ni_(1 − x)Pt_(x))₂B₂C
was measured at 0.5 K under magnetic fields H up to 7 T. In nominally
pure YNi₂B₂C, which is a strongly anisotropic s-wave superconductor, the
flux flow resistivity ρ_(f) calculated from Z_(s) was twice as large as
that expected from the conventional normal-state vortex core model. In
Pt-doped samples where the gap anisotropy is smeared out, the
enhancement of ρ_(f) is reduced and ρ_(f) approaches the conventional
behavior. These results indicate that the energy dissipation in the
vortex core is strongly affected by the anisotropy of the
superconducting gap.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.66.184511 PACS number(s): 74.60.Ec, 74.25.Jb,
74.25.Nf, 74.70.Dd

## I Introduction

In conventional phonon-mediated superconductors, the symmetry of the
pair wave function is of s-wave type, and the superconducting gap (SG)
is isotropic in momentum space. However, pair wave functions with higher
angular momenta are believed to occur in superconductors where strong
interactions among electrons play an important role. In such
unconventional superconductors, the SG’s are anisotropic and can have
nodes.[1, 2] In general, even in s-wave superconductors, the SG can be
strongly anisotropic.[3]

In superconductors with anisotropic SG’s, low-energy quasiparticle (QP)
excitations near the gap nodes play an important role. Volovik examined
the effects of gap nodes on the QP density of states (DOS) in the mixed
state.[4] He pointed out that the QP DOS at the Fermi energy ϵ_(F) in
superconductors with line nodes varies proportionally to $\sqrt{H}$, in
contrast to the case of conventional superconductors with an isotropic
SG where the QP DOS at ϵ_(F) is linear in H, that is, proportional to
the number of vortices. Such an enhancement of the QP DOS in anisotropic
superconductors has been observed experimentally in d-wave high-T_(c)
cuprates[5, 6] and the heavy fermion superconductor UPt₃ (Ref. [7]) by
electronic specific heat measurements.

Besides the QP DOS, gap nodes are expected to affect the flux flow
resistivity ρ_(f). Basically, ρ_(f) is a measure of the QP relaxation
_in and around_ the vortex core, and can provide different information
from the QP DOS. In dirty superconductors where the QP mean free path l
is shorter than the coherence length ξ, the vortex core can be treated
as a bulk normal metal with a radius of the order of ξ.[8] As a result,
ρ_(f) is simply given by ρ_(f)∼ρ_(n)/H/H_(c2) regardless of the
anisotropy of the SG. In moderately clean superconductors where
ξ<l<ξϵ_(F)/Δ (Δ is the gap amplitude), however, the vortex core cannot
be regarded as a simple normal metal at all, since the QP’s are
reflected at the edge of the vortex core before they experience impurity
scattering. In this regime, ρ_(f) is given by
ρ_(f)=H/(ne⟨ω₀τ_(c)⟩_(F)).[9] Here n is a carrier density, e is a unit
charge, ω₀∼Δ²/ϵ_(F) is the precession frequency of the lowest Andreev
bound state,[10]τ_(c) is the relaxation time in the vortex core, and
⟨⋯⟩_(F) denotes the average over the Fermi surface. In such a case,
nodes in the SG should affect both ω₀ and τ_(c). First, ω₀ in
anisotropic superconductors depends on the QP momentum and should be
very small near the gap nodes. Second, τ_(c) can be short because the QP
DOS which contributes to the impurity scattering is enhanced in
anisotropic superconductors. Both these factors are expected to enhance
ρ_(f) from clean isotropic superconductors.

To date, UPt₃ is the only clean anisotropic superconductor in which
ρ_(f) has been measured. The enhancement of ρ_(f) has actually been
observed.[11, 12] However, since UPt₃ is a complicated odd-parity
superconductor,[13] it should be noted that many factors other than gap
anisotropy can contribute to ρ_(f). In fact, Lutke-Entrup _et al._
attributed the origin of the ρ_(f) enhancement to the unconventional
vortex core structure which is brought by the two-component order
parameter.[12] In addition, Kato showed that the parity and chirality of
the pair wave function affect τ_(c) in the moderately clean regime.[14]
Therefore, it is still unclear whether ρ_(f) enhancement in UPt₃ is
brought by the gap anisotropy or by the other unconventional nature of
superconductivity.

To make clear the effects of gap anisotropy on ρ_(f), measurement on a
_clean, anisotropic, and s-wave_ superconductor is indispensable. From
this point of view, we measured the ρ_(f) of Y(Ni_(1 − x)Pt_(x))₂B₂C.
The temperature and magnetic-field dependence of the electronic specific
heat,[15, 16] thermal conductivity,[17, 18] and NMR relaxation rate[19]
indicate that there are low-lying QP states near ϵ_(F) even in the
superconducting state. This is strong evidence for the huge anisotropy
of the SG in YNi₂B₂C. Recently, Izawa _et al._ suggested, from thermal
conductivity measurements under various magnetic field directions that
there are point-like gap nodes along the [100] and [010] directions.[18]
In addition, it is reported that the introduction of impurities
_reduces_ the low-lying QP states and opens the gap all over the Fermi
surface with little effect on T_(c).[15, 20] Such a behavior is totally
different from that expected in d- or p-wave superconductors,[21] and
provides strong evidence of _anisotropic s-wave_ superconductivity in
YNi₂B₂C. Therefore, by comparing the results in pure (anisotropic) and
impurity-doped (isotropic) YNi₂B₂C, the effects of SG anisotropy on
ρ_(f) can be examined without the complication of other effects.

## II Experiment

Samples were cut from the same single crystal boules used in previous
studies. [15, 20] As an impurity, Pt was used instead of Ni. The
relevant material parameters are listed in Table 1. The sample with
x = 0 is in the moderately clean regime and the impurity-doped samples
are in the dirty regime. In order to avoid pinning-related effects,
ρ_(f) should be measured at high enough currents or at frequencies
higher than the pinning frequency f_(p). [22] We adopted the latter
method to avoid the self-heating of the sample. In nominally pure
YNi₂B₂C, f_(p) is estimated to be below 3 MHz. [23] In other
conventional superconductors, f_(p) is at most of the order of 10² MHz.
[22] Consequently, pinning-related effects can be avoided completely at
microwave frequencies. However, a direct resistivity measurement is
difficult at microwave frequencies because of the skin effect.
Therefore, we measured the surface impedance Z_(s) = R_(s) + iX_(s)
using a cavity perturbation method, and calculated the real part of the
resistivity ρ₁ using the relation ρ₁ = 2R_(s)X_(s)/μω, where μ is the
permeability and ω is the angular frequency. Samples were located at the
center of a cylindrical Cu cavity which resonate at 44 GHz in the TE₀₁₁
mode. Microwave magnetic fields were applied along the c axis of the
crystal to measure the in-plane response. The surface resistance R_(s)
and the surface reactance X_(s) were obtained from the changes in the
quality factor and the resonance frequency of the cavity, respectively.
[24] The absolute value of Z_(s) was determined by a comparison with the
dc resistivity ρ above T_(c) assuming the Hagen-Rubens relation
$R_{s}\!=\!X_{s}\!=\!\sqrt{\mu\omega\rho/2}$. This relation can be
applied in the local regime where l is much shorter than the skin depth
$\delta\!=\!\sqrt{2\rho/\mu\omega}$. Strictly speaking, the sample with
x = 0 is not deep in the local regime since l and δ were estimated to be
of the same order of magnitude. In the nonlocal regime, X_(s) becomes
larger than R_(s), and both R_(s) and X_(s) are larger than the local
value. [25] Therefore, the absolute value of Z_(s) for the sample with
x = 0 could be somewhat underestimated. In the present study, the
absolute value is not crucial to the final conclusion. Samples were
cooled down to 0.5 K by a laboratory-made ³He refrigerator. In all the
measurements, static magnetic fields were applied along the c axis of
the crystals.

## III Results and Discussion

The magnetic field dependence of the surface impedance at 0.5 K for each
sample is plotted as a function of $\sqrt{H/H_{c2}}$ in Fig. 1. In the
absence of magnetic fields, the response is purely reactive with
R_(s) ∼ 0 and X_(s) = μωλ₀, where λ₀ is the penetration depth in the
Meissner state. We estimate λ₀ to be 500 A for the sample with x = 0.
This value is similar to λ₀ obtained by the previous microwave
measurement, [16] but is rather short compared to the other estimates.
[26] Part of this difference may come from the nonlocality of the
response.

In the mixed state, R_(s) and X_(s) increase with increasing H. At high
fields, both R_(s) and X_(s) saturate to the value just above T_(c),
which is given by $\sqrt{\mu\omega\rho_{res}/2}$, where ρ_(res) is the
resistivity just above T_(c). In the sample with x = 0.2, this
saturation occurs just at H_(c2) with a clear kink, as expected.
However, with decreasing impurity content or increasing SG anisotropy,
both R_(s) and X_(s) saturate even below H_(c2) and the kink structure
is broadened. This behavior is not caused by the inhomogeneity of the
sample, since the broadening is most apparent in the cleanest sample.
Therefore, we can conclude that, in clean YNi₂B₂C, there is a distinct
field region below H_(c2) where the QP response is almost as same as
that

Figure 1: Magnetic field dependence of the surface impedance of
Y(Ni_(1 − x)Pt_(x))₂B₂C plotted as a function of $\sqrt{H/H_{c2}}$.
Horizontal dashed lines denote the normal state values just above T_(c).

in the normal state. In the sample with x = 0, this region extends to
about half of H_(e2). This behavior may be related to the de Haas−van
Albhen effect in the mixed state [27] and the large DOS at ϵ_(F) in the
mixed state observed by scanning tunneling spectroscopy. [28]

Next we try to extract ρ_(f) from R_(s) and X_(s). In general, Z_(s) in
the mixed state consists of several contributions and ρ₁, which is
directly calculated from Z_(s), is different from ρ_(f). Since our
measurements were performed at low enough temperatures (T/T_(c) < 0.04),
and high enough frequencies (ω≫ω_(p)), contributions from thermally
activated QP’s and the effects of vortex pinning can be safely
neglected. One of the remaining potential contributions is the effect of
flux flow. Another important factor that we should consider is the
contribution from delocalized QP’s. In a superconductor with an
isotropic SG, all the QP’s in the mixed state are localized in the
vortex core. On the other hand, in a strongly anisotropic
superconductor, such as nominally pure YNi₂B₂C, QP’s are generated not
only in the vortex core, but also _outside_ of the core by the Doppler
energy shift from the supercurrent around the vortex. [4] The existence
of such delocalized QP’s has been confirmed in YNi₂B₂C by electronic
specific heat measurements [15, 16] and in LuNi₂B₂C by thermal
conductivity measurements. [17] To analyze Z_(s) in the mixed state
under the influence of the delocalized QP’s, we use the formulation of
Z_(s) given by Coffey and Clem. [29] If we neglect the effect of vortex
pinning, Z_(s) is given by

$$Z_{s}\!=\!i\,\mu\,\omega\lambda_{0}\,\sqrt{\frac{(1-bs)-i(b+s)}{1+s^{2}}},$$
(1)

where b = ρ_(f)/μ ωλ₀², s = μ ωλ₀²σ_(nf), and σ_(nf) is the conductivity
of the delocalized QP’s. Here b and s are measures of the contributions
from the flux flow and the delocalized QP’s, respectively. If we set
s = 0, Eq. (1) is reduced to the pure flux flow state without
delocalized QP’s and b = 0 denotes the usual two-fluid response without
vortices. In the latter case, all the QP’s are delocalized as in the
case of thermally activated QP’s and s = ω τ_(nf) /t_(nf)/(1−f_(nf)),
where τ_(nf) is the relaxation time of the delocalized QP’s and f_(nf)
is the normal fluid fraction.

To judge which contribution is dominant in Y(Ni_(1 − x)Pt_(x))₂B₂C, it
is useful to introduce the "impedance plane plot," where X_(s)/X_(s)(0)
is plotted against R_(s)/X_(s)(0). [30] Here X_(s)(0) = μωλ₀ is a
surface reactance in the absence of a magnetic field. This plot is
sensitive to the underlying mechanism that dominates Z_(s). Figure 2
shows the impedance plane plots for Y(Ni_(1 − x)Pt_(x))₂B₂C. The solid
and dashed curves correspond to two limiting cases of Eq. (1), namely, a
pure flux flow state (s = 0) and a two-fluid response (b = 0),
respectively. As is evident from Fig. 2, the behavior of Z_(s) is
reproduced quite well by the assumption of pure flux flow. Small
deviation can be seen at high fields where R_(s) and X_(s) are
saturated. Consequently, the contribution of delocalized QP’s to Z_(s)
can be neglected in the field range where R_(s) and X_(s) is field
dependent. In other words, in this field range, the real part of the
resistivity ρ₁, calculated from Z_(s), can be regarded as ρ_(f) itself.

Figure 3 plots ρ₁/ρ_(res) as a function of H/H_(e2). In the sample with
x = 0, in which the SG is strongly anisotropic, ρ₁, namely, ρ_(f), below
about a half of H_(e2) is almost proportional to H as in the case of the
usual flux flow. However, its slope is twice as large as that expected
from the conventional normal core model. [8] We note here that this
enhancement is not an artifact caused by the assumption of local
electrodynamics. As described above, the absolute value of Z_(s) may be
somewhat underestimated. Therefore, a correction for the nonlocal
behavior further enhances the anomaly. The enhancement of ρ_(f) implies
that the energy dissipation in the vortex core is strongly enhanced in
YNi₂B₂C. In impurity-doped crystals where the anisotropy of the SG is
smeared out, this enhancement is reduced except at very low fields, and
ρ_(f) approaches the behavior expected in the normal core model. [8]
Although the origin of the residual enhancement of

Figure 3: Real part of the complex resistivity as a function of the
magnetic field. Vertical and horizontal axes are normalized by ρ_(res)
and H_(e2), respectively.

Figure 2: Impedance plane plot of the surface impedance of
Y(Ni_(1 − y)Pt_(x))₂B₂C. Solid and dashed lines denote the calculated
curves in cases of pure flux flow and the two-fluid response,
respectively. For the calculation of two-fluid model, we used
ωτ_(nf) = 0.1. (See the text.) Arrows indicate the direction when H is
increased.

ρ_(f) in impurity-doped crystals is unclear now, the effect of gap
anisotropy on ρ_(f) is evident.

It should be noted that such an enhancement of ρ_(f) can_not_ be
expected in a clean _isotropic_ superconductor, since ω₀τ_(c) , which is
inversely proportional to ρ_(f), is always large over the Fermi surface
in this case. At very low temperatures, it is theoretically expected
that ρ_(f) in a clean superconductor is _reduced_ from the conventional
value by a small factor of ln(T_(c)/T) because of the so-called
Kramer-Pesch effect,[9, 31] but can never be enhanced. Therefore, we can
safely conclude that the observed anomaly is not related to the
cleanness itself but is caused by the gap anisotropy. Here we emphasize
that the anisotropic s-wave superconductivity is realized only in the
clean sample.[21]

The observed enhancement factor of 2 is similar to that of UPt₃
(1.6−4.7).[11, 12] However, unlike in the case of UPt₃ which has a
complicated superconducting order parameter, the enhancement of ρ_(f) in
YNi₂B₂C is solely brought by the SG anisotropy, since YNi₂B₂C is a
"simple" superconductor except for the huge anisotropy of the SG. As
mentioned above, ρ_(f) is affected by the SG anisotropy through ω₀
and/or τ_(c) . Future work may examine which path is dominant.

Finally, we briefly comment on the absence of the contribution from
delocalized QP’s to Z_(s) . If the parameter s is small compared to
unity, the effect of delocalized QP’s on Z_(s) is small. To evaluate s
in the present experiment, we assume that τ_(nf) in the mixed state is
not so different from that in the normal state. If that is the case,
τ_(nf) can be estimated from ρ_(res) . In the sample with x=0, ω τ_(nf)
is estimated to be of the order of 0.1 and is much smaller in the
impurity-doped samples. This means that even if the normal fluid
fraction f_(nf) becomes 0.5, s = ω τ_(nf)f_(nf)/(1 − f_(nf)) is only 0.1
or less. In other words, even at microwave frequencies, one can
selectively extract information on the flux flow or the dynamics of the
QP’s in the vortex core from Z_(s) measurements. This feature is
complementary to that of the thermal conductivity measurement which
selectively senses the dynamics of delocalized QP’s.[17] Considering
that the electronic specific heat measures the total QP DOS, combination
of these techniques should be important for investigations of the
electronic states of the mixed state.

In summary, we measured Z_(s) of the anisotropic s-wave superconductor
YNi₂B₂C to study the effects of SG anisotropy on ρ_(f) . We found that
ρ_(f) in the nominally pure sample, in which the SG has a huge
anisotropy, is greatly enhanced from that expected from the conventional
normal-state vortex core. This enhancement was reduced in impurity-doped
samples where the SG anisotropy is smeared out. Such behavior indicates
that the quasi-particle relaxation in and around the vortex core is
sensitive to the superconducting gap anisotropy. These results imply
that ρ_(f) measurement provides useful information for a microscopic
understanding of the vortex state of anisotropic superconductors.

###### Acknowledgements.

The authors thank Y. Matsuda and K. Izawa for helpful discussions. They
also thank D. G. Steel for a critical reading of the manuscript. This
work was supported by SORST, the Japan Science and Technology
Corporation, and a Grant-in-Aid for Scientific Research from the
Ministry of Education, Science, Sports and Culture of Japan.

## References

* [1] M. Sigrist and K. Ueda, Rev. Mod. Phys. **63**, 239 (1991). * [2]
D. J. Scalapino, Phys. Rep. **250**, 329 (1995). * [3] L. Chen and A.-M.
S. Tremblay, J. Phys. Chem. Solids **54**, 1381 (1993). * [4] G. E.
Volovik, Pis’ma Zh. Eksp. Teor. Fiz. **58**, 457 (1993) [JETP Lett.
**58**, 469 (1993)]. * [5] K. A. Moler, D. J. Baar, J. S. Urbach,
Ruixing Liang, W. N. Hardy, and A. Kapitulnik, Phys. Rev. Lett. **73**,
2744 (1994). * [6] M. Nohara, H. Suzuki, M. Isshiki, N. Mangkorntong, F.
Sakai, and H. Takagi, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **69**, 1602 (2000). * [7] A.
P. Ramirez, N. Stucheli, and E. Bucher, Phys. Rev. Lett. **74**, 1218
(1994). * [8] J. Bardeen and M. J. Stephen, Phys. Rev. **140**, A1197
(1965). * [9] N. B. Kopnin, _Theory of Nonequilibrium Superconductivity_
(Oxford University Press, Oxford, 2001), and references therein. * [10]
C. Caroli, P. G. de Gennes, and J. Matricon, Phys. Lett. **9**, 307
(1964). * [11] S. Kambe, A. D. Huxley, P. Rodiere, and J. Flouquet,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **83**, 1842 (1999). * [12] N. Lutke-Entrup, R.
Blaauwgeers, B. Placais, A. Huxley, S. Kambe, M. Krusius, P. Mathieu,
and Y. Simon, Phys. Rev. B **64**, 020510(R) (2001). * [13] H. Tou, Y.
Kitaoka, K. Ishida, K. Asayama, N. Kimura, Y. Onuki, E. Yamamoto, Y.
Haga, and K. Maezawa, Phys. Rev. Lett. **80**, 3129 (1998); H. Tou, Y.
Kitaoka, K. Asayama, N. Kimura, Y. Onuki, E. Yamamoto, and K. Maezawa,
_ibid._**77**, 1374 (1996). * [14] Y. Kato, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **69**,
3378 (2000). * [15] M. Nohara, H. Suzuki, N. Mangkorntong, and H.
Takagi, Physica C **341-348**, 2177 (2000). * [16] K. Izawa, A. Shibata,
Y. Matsuda, Y. Kato, H. Takeya, K. Hirata, C. J. van der Beek, and M.
Konczykowski, Phys. Rev. Lett. **86**, 1327 (2001). * [17] E. Boaknin,
R. W. Hill, C. Proust, C. Lupien, L. Taillefer, and P. C. Canfield,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **87**, 237001 (2001). * [18] K. Izawa, K. Kamata, Y.
Nakajima, Y. Matsuda, T. Watanabe, M. Nohara, H. Takagi, P. Thalmeier,
and K. Maki, Phys. Rev. Lett. **89**, 137006 (2002). * [19] G. -q.
Zheng, Y. Wada, K. Hashimoto, Y. Kitaoke, K. Asayama, H. Takeya, and K.
Kadowaki, J. Phys. Chem. Solids **59**, 2169 (1998). * [20] T. Yokoya,
T. Kiss, T. Watanabe, S. Shin, M. Nohara, H. Takagi, and T. Oguchi,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **85**, 4952 (2000). * [21] L. S. Borkowski and P. J.
Hirschfeld, Phys. Rev. B **49**, 15404 (1994); R. Fehrenbacher and M. R.
Norman, _ibid._**50**, 3495 (1994).

* [22] J. I. Gittleman and B. Rosenblum, J. Appl. Phys. **39**, 2617
(1968). * [23] S. Oxx, D. P. Choudhury, B. A. Willemsen, H. Srikanth, B.
K. Cho, P. C. Canfield, and S. Sridhar, Physica C **264**, 103 (1996). *
[24] O. Klein, S. Donovan, M. Dressel, and G. Gruner, Int. J. Infrared
Millim. Waves **14**, 2423 (1993). * [25] A. A. Abrikosov, _Fundamentals
of the Theory of Metals_ (Elsevier, Amsterdam, 1988). * [26] K. D. D.
Rathnayaka, A. K. Bhatnagar, A. Parasiris, D. G. Naugle, P. C. Canfield,
and B. K. Cho, Phys. Rev. B **55**, 8506 (1997); R. Cywinski, Z. P. Han
ZP, R. Bewley R, R. Cubitt R, M. T. Wylie, E. M. Forgan, S. L. Lee, M.
Warden, and S. H. Kilcoyne, Physica C **233**, 273 (1994). * [27] T.
Terashima, C. Haworth, H. Takeya, S. Uji, H. Aoki, and K. Kadowaki,
Phys. Rev. B **56**, 5120 (1997). * [28] H. Sakata, M. Oosawa, K.
Matsuba, N. Nishida, H. Takeya, and K. Hirata, Phys. Rev. Lett. **84**,
1583 (2000). * [29] M. W. Coffey and J. R. Clem, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**67**, 386 (1991). * [30] Y. Tsuchiya, K. Iwaya, K. Kinoshita, T.
Hanaguri, H. Kitano, A. Maeda, K. Shibata, T. Nishizaki, and N.
Kobayashi, Phys. Rev. B **63**, 184517 (2001). * [31] L. Kramer and W.
Pesch, Z. Phys. **269**, 59 (1974).
