# Pressure-induced superconducting state in crystalline boron nanowires

Liling Sun,^(1, #, †) Takahiro Matsuoka,² Yasuyuki Tamari,² Katsuya
Shimizu,^(2, #, ‡) Jifa Tian,¹ Yuan Tian,¹ Chendong Zhang,¹ Chengmin
Shen,¹ Wei Yi,¹ Hongjun Gao,¹ Jianqi Li,¹ Xiaoli Dong,¹ and Zhongxian
Zhao¹

¹Institute of Physics and Beijing National Laboratory for Condensed
Matter Physics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100190, People’s
Republic of China

²Center for Quantum Science and Technology under Extreme Conditions,
Osaka University, 1-3 Machikaneyama, Toyonaka, Osaka 560-8531, Japan

###### Abstract

We report high-pressure induced superconductivity in boron nanowires
(BNWs) with rhombohedral crystal structure. Obviously different from
bulk rhombohedral boron (β-r-B), these BNNs show a semiconductor-metal
transition at much lower pressure than bulk β-r-B. Also, we found that
these BNNs become superconductors with T_(c)=1.5 K at 84 GPa, at the
pressure of which bulk β-r-B is still a semiconductor, via _in situ_
resistance measurements in a diamond-anvil cell. With increasing
pressure, T_(c) of the BNPs increases. The occurrence of
superconductivity in the BNPs at a pressure as low as 84 GPa probably
arises from the size effect.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.79.140505 PACS number(s): 74.62.Fj, 74.25.Jb,
74.62.Bf, 74.81.Bd + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL REVIEW B **79**,
140505(R) (2009)

It is well known that bulk solid boron is a semiconductor with a band
gap of ∼2 eV at ambient pressure. Theoretical calculations predicted
that at sufficient high pressure, band overlap occurs, which drives the
bulk boron to a poor metal.[1, 2] Recently, two striking resistance
measurements under high pressure found that the semiconductor-metal
transition occurs at room temperature in bulk β boron at 130 GPa (Ref.
[3]) and in bulk α boron at 160 GPa.[4] At low temperature, they both
showed a superconducting transition at ∼4 K and 160 GPa. Nanomaterials
with the same crystal structure as the corresponding bulk solid are
expected to have interesting physical properties in comparison with
their bulk counterparts. For example, when the size of the solid is
small enough, solid-solid phase transition pressures vary with size
change.[5, 6] Superconducting properties are also altered when the
effective size of a superconductor is reduced.[7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13,
14, 15, 16] Progress in preparation of boron nanomaterials[18, 19]
motivated this investigation of solid-solid phase transition and
physical properties at ambient and at high pressures. In this study, we
report observations of semiconductor-metal-superconductor transitions in
crystalline boron nanowires (BNNs) under high pressure. In addition, the
pressure dependence of the superconducting critical temperature (T_(c))
was studied up to 240 GPa. The correlation between the measured value of
T_(c) and pressure in BNPs is compared with the data of bulk solid
boron.

Bulk solid boron has a variety of phases, including α-rhombohedral B₁₂
(α-B₁₂), α-tetragonal B₅₀ (α-B₅₀), and β-rhombohedral B₁₀₅ (β-r-B).[17,
20] All forms mentioned above have the common structural component of
boron icosahedrons B₁₂ in the unit cell.[21] To determine the structural
properties, the BNN samples fabricated by chemical vapor deposition[19]
were characterized using scanning electron microscopy (SEM),
transmission electron microscopy (TEM), electron energy loss
spectroscopy (EELS). and x-ray diffraction (XRD) measurement. Figure
1(a) shows the SEM image of BNNs stripped off the Si substrate. The
diameter of the wires varies from 200 to 500 nm and the length from 20
to 50 μm. High-resolution TEM observations on the nanosamples reveal the
presence of complex structural features, as typically illustrated in
Fig. 1(b). From a partial enlargement of Fig. 1(b), the notable contrast
anomalies in association with structural distortion, indicated by
arrows, exclude the possibility of stacking faults, as shown in Fig.
1(c). Actually alterations of crystallographic orientation can

Figure 1: (a) SEM image of the BNNs stripped off the silicon substrate,
(b) TEM image of one of wire samples used in this study, (c) partial
enlargement of Fig. 1(b), (d) EELS of the BNNs at K shell ionization
edge (∼190 eV), and (e) x-ray diffraction spectrum of the BNNs.

be clearly recognized crossing certain defective regions, as displayed
in Fig. 1(b). These facts suggest that each nanowire sample observed
from SEM is texturally made up from many slim nanowires with diameter of
 30 nm. To determine the composition, we analyzed the slim nanowires
using EELS. Figure 1(d) exhibits the representative EELS of a slim wire
sample. The boron absorption features at the K shell ionization edge
( 190 eV) are clearly seen, which indicates that no other elements or
impurities are observed in the BNWs. XRD measurements demonstrate that
all peaks of the BNWs can be indexed to _b_-rhombohedral (B108)
structure, as shown in Fig. 1(e). This indicates that the BNWs used in
this study have the same crystal structure as bulk _b_’-_R_.[3]

High-pressure experiments were performed using a diamond-anvil cell made
of Be-Cu alloy. Diamonds were selected carefully for very low
birefringence with tips whose diameter is 300 μm for the first
experiment and 40 μm for the second. A standard four-lead technique was
used for the first experiment below 60 GPa, and a pseudo-four-lead
technique was used for the second experiment. The pseudo-four-lead
pattern was made by thin-film fabrication and photolithography
technology. A layer of titanium (Ti) was deposited onto the diamond
surface, followed by a layer of platinum deposited over the Ti layer.
Four layered leads were then connected to 5-μm-thick Pt wires.
Insulation from the rheonium gasket was achieved by a thin layer of a
mixture of diamond powder and epoxy. The size of each wire sample used
in this study was measured under a high magnification observation
microscope. Seven well-aligned wire samples were placed on the top anvil
and then pressed into the insulating gasket with leads. No pressure
medium was used. The pressures were determined at room temperature by
ruby fluorescence method [22, 23] and at low temperature with the
diamond Raman shift [24, 25]. Superconducting transitions under pressure
were measured in a ³He/⁴He dilution refrigerator.

Figure 2 shows the pressure dependence of resistivity (ρ) of the BNWs
for two individual experiments, which were carried out at room
temperature. Unlike bulk _b_’-_R_.[3] the resistance of the sample is
measurable ( 83 K Ω) at 300 K and 0.7 GPa. With increasing pressure, the
ρ value decreased significantly at 28 GPa and is saturated at this value
at higher pressures. The ρ value of the BNWs at 28 GPa is about 2 x 10-3
M cm (corresponding conductivity s = 500 Ω⁻¹ cm⁻¹) which is close to
that of minimum metallic conductivity [3, 26]. The results suggest that
the BNWs become a poor metal at this pressure. At 84 GPa the resistance
plunges at 1.5 K, as shown in Figure. 3. The abrupt drop in resistance
from a finite value at 1.5 K and a pressure of 84 GPa is a sign of
superconducting transition. To confirm that the resistance drop at 1.5 K
is related to the superconducting transition of the BNWs, the resistance
versus temperature is measured at different magnetic fields and at the
fixed pressure. The resistance curve of the sample is magnetic field
dependent. The resistance drop is suppressed by an applied magnetic
field and disappears at 2.5 T. It is known that the observed resistance
(_R_a_) is composed of three parts, sample resistance (_R_a_), contact
resistance between the sample and leads (_R_c_), and deformation
resistance (_R_d_); i.e., _R_o = _R_s + _R_r (here _R_r is residual
resistance, _R_r = _R_c + _R_d_). As the resistance of the sample was
measured with pseudo-four-lead (two-point contact) technique,
_T_-independent behavior with _R_o   50 Ohm at T < 0.5 K (as shown in
Fig. 3) indicates zero resistance of the sample. According to our
previous experiments, no superconducting was observed from the same
leads at temperature down to 20 mK in megabar pressure range. Therefore,
the significant resistance drop at 1.5 K is unambiguously assigned to a
superconducting transition of the sample.

Figure 4(a) shows the resistance (_R_) of the BNWs versus temperature
(_T_) at selected pressures. The shift of the _R_-_T_ curve toward high
temperature gives evidence that the critical temperature of
superconducting transition (_T_c_) of the BNWs is enhanced with
increasing pressure. Meanwhile, we note that the resistance of BNWs in
their normal state increases with increasing pressure, the reason for
which is that the value of _R_d increase is bigger than that of _R_c
decrease (generally _R_c decreases with pressure), as a result, the ob

Figure 3: (Color online) Electrical resistance (_R_) versus temperature
(_T_) of superconducting BNWs at 84 GPa measured at different magnetic
fields in the low T range. The inset is the _R_-_T_ curve in the
temperature range of 0.08–300 K under zero magnetic field.

Figure 2: (Color online) Resistivity (ρ) of the BNWs as a function of
pressure at room temperature. The inset of the main figure shows a
photograph of pseudo-four-lead and seven well-aligned BNWs on the
diamond tip. The diameter of the tip is 40 μm, and the separation
between two leads is  4 μm.

served resistance R_(o) elevates. The pressure dependence of T_(c) is
plotted in Fig. 4(b). Here T_(c) is determined by the onset transition
temperature. For comparison, the results from Erememets _et al.[3]_ are
plotted as open squares in Fig. 4(b). Interestingly, the onset pressure
(84 GPa) for the superconducting transition in the BNbWs is much lower
than that of the bulk boron (160 GPa). The T_(c) of BNbWs increases with
increasing pressure. Above 160 GPa, T_(c) of the BNbWs does not increase
up to the data of bulk β-r-B. Rather, it has a linear behavior up to 200
GPa. Fitting the data of the BNbWs from 84 to 200 GPa gives a pressure
coefficient dT_(c)/dP=0.02 K/GPa. This value is lower than that (0.16
K/GPa) of bulk β-r-B. However, the dT_(c)/dP of the BNbWs was enhanced
as pressure further increases. Fitting to data measured from 200 to 240
GPa gives dT_(c)/dP=0.04 K/GPa which approaches the value (0.05 K/GPa)
of bulk β-r-B achieved at pressure of 178-250 GPa.[3]

The apparent discrepancy between the BNbWs and the bulk β-r-B in the
pressures of the semiconductor-metal-superconductor transitions may
probably be attributed to size effect because the BNbWs and bulk β-r-B
are in the same crystal structure, with the difference between them
being only size. To prove that the metallization and superconducting
transition that occurred at lower pressure are related to the size
effect, parallel experiments on transport properties of the BNbW have
been carried out at ambient pressure. Figure 5 shows experimental
measurements of conductivity (σ) of the BNW as a function of temperature
(T). According to early studies,[27, 28] the boron-rich materials have a
Mott’s variable-range hopping (VRH) conduction nature:[29, 30]σ= σ_(o)
exp[(-(T_o/T)^Q) (T_(o)= $\frac{d0}{\sigma k_{BNb(E)}}$) where σ is the
conductivity, T is the temperature, ξ is the localization length of the
wave function of carriers, k_(B) is the Boltzmann constant, N(E_(F)) is
the density of state at the Fermi level, and σ_(o) is a constant. On the
basis of Mott’s theory we can estimate the N(E_(F)) from the measured σ.
It is noted that the estimation of N(E_(F)) is completely based on
parameters of Q and T₀ of Mott’s theory if the localization length
remains unchanged. T₀ is determined both by Q value and σ value; the
latter is experimental result. Therefore, Q value should be the key
factor for the estimation of N(E_(F)). In Mott’s equation, Q value is
alterable, Q=1/4 for the three-dimensional sample and Q=1/3 for the
two-dimensional sample. To make the BNW and bulk β-r-B comparable, we
take value of Q and ξ for the BNW same as that (Q=1/4, ξ=0.1 nm) of bulk
β-r-B in the calculations. Using this model, we obtained T_(o)=2.5×10⁷ K
and then estimated N(E_(F)) of the BNW at ambient pressure to be 8.9/eV
nm³. In order to make a precise comparison, we looked up the
conductivity data for single crystal of bulk β-r-B (the BNW is a single
crystal) from Ref. [31], and we found that the N(E_(F)) of the single
crystal of bulk β-r-B is about 2.5/eV nm³. Comparing with the N(E_(F))
of single crystal of β-r-B and the BNW, the N(E_(F)) of the BNW is still
higher than that of bulk β-r-B. The same phenomenon also has been found
in boron nanohelt.[28] Therefore, the size effect could be the reason
that the BNW is easier to be metallized than the bulk β-r-B under high
pressure at room temperature.

We compared effect of different Q values on the N(E_(F)). Table 1 shows
the model parameter T₀ of Mott’s VRH model and N(E_(F)) estimated with
different Q values. It is seen that the N(E_(F)) increases with
increasing Q value. In this study, the Q value of the BNW should be
higher than that of bulk β-r-B; therefore, its corresponding N(E_(F)) is
also high. When the BNW is superconducting, its T_(c) increases
gradually with increasing pressure to 160 GPa. With further increase in
pressure, T_(c) of the BNbWs continues to increase linearly up to 200
GPa, as seen in Fig. 4(b). In the range from 200 to 240 GPa, the T_(c)
and the value of dT_(c)/dP of the BNbWs approaches that of the bulk
β-r-B. This means that the size effect is negligible.

  --------- ----------- -----
     T₀      N(E_(F))   
     (K)     (/eV nm³)    Q
   8.3×10⁵      267      1/3
   2.5×10⁷      8.9      1/4
  --------- ----------- -----

Table 1: Parameter T₀ and N(E_(F)) value of the BNbWs with different Q
values. In the estimations, we take ξ=0.1 nm.

Figure 4: (Color online) (a) Resistance-temperature curves of the BNbWs
at selected pressure, (b) Pressure dependence of T_(c) of BNbWs obtained
from resistance measurements. Value of T_(c) is determined from
transition onset. Solid square represents data of this study, and open
square represents data from Ref. [3].

In conclusion, superconductivity in B NWs with rhombohedral structure
was studied under high pressure up to 240 GPa. Resistance measurements
in a diamond-anvil cell show that the B NWs exhibit metallization at 28
GPa at room temperature and superconductivity at 1.5 K at 84 GPa where
the bulk β-r-B is still a semiconductor. It was found that pressure has
a positive effect on the T_(c). The pressure coefficient of the B NWs is
0.02 K/GPa over the pressure range of 84-200 GPa, followed by increasing
to the value of 0.04 K/GPa from 200 to 240 GPa as that of bulk β-r-B. We
proposed that the size effect influences the pressure for metallization
and superconducting transition of the B NWs in comparison with bulk
β-r-B.

We sincerely thank W. J. Nellis of Harvard University for valuable
discussions. This work was supported by Center of Excellence (COE)
Project of Science Technology Agency of Japan and the National Science
Foundation of China (Grants No. 50571111 and No. 10874230). This work
was also supported by the Ministry of Science and Technology of China
(Grant No. 2005CB724400) and the project CoMePhS.

## References

* [1] "Corresponding author. * [2] "llsun@aphy.iphy.ac.cn * [3]
"shimizu@cst.osaka-u.ac.jp * [4] " J. Zhao and J. P. Lu, Phys. Rev. B
**66**, 092101 (2002). * [5] " C. Maihiot, J. B. Grant, and A. K.
McMahan, Phys. Rev. B **42**, 9033 (1990). * [6] " M. I. Eremets, V. V.
Struzhkin, H.-K. Mao, and R. Hemley, Science **293**, 272 (2001). * [7]
" M. Kaneshige and K. Shimizu, ARAPT, Catania 2007. * [8] " S. H.
Tolbert, A. B. Herhold, L. E. Brus, and A. P. Alivisatos, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **76**, 4384 (1996). * [9] " J. N. Wickham, A. B. Herhold, and A.
P. Alivisatos, Phys. Rev. Lett. **84**, 923 (2000). * [10] " I. Giaever
and H. R. Zeller, Phys. Rev. Lett. **20**, 1504 (1968). * [11] " M.
Tian, J. Wang, N. Kumar, T. Han, Y. Kobayashi, Y. Liu, T. E. Mallouk,
and M. H. W. Chan, Nano Lett. **6**, 2773 (2006). * [12] " S. Bose, P.
Raychaudhuri, R. Banerjee, P. Vasa, and P. Ayyub, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**95**, 147003 (2005). * [13] " B. Abeles, R. W. Cohen, and G. W.
Cullen, Phys. Rev. Lett. **17**, 632 (1966). * [14] " W.-H. Li, C. C.
Yang, F. C. Tsao, and K. C. Lee, Phys. Rev. B **68**, 184507 (2003). *
[15] " Z. X. Zhao, F. S. Liu, and R. S. Han, Acta Phys. Sin. **28**, 222
(1979). * [16] " Y. Guo, Y. F. Zhang, X. Y. Bao, T. Z. Han, Z. Tang, L.
X. Zhang, W. G. Zhu, E. G. Wang, Q. Niu, Z. Q. Qiu, J. F. Jia, Z. X.
Zhao, and Q. K. Xie, Science **306**, 1915 (2004). * [17] " D. Eom, S.
Qin, M. Y. Chou, and C. K. Shih, Phys. Rev. Lett. **96**, 027005
(2006). * [18] " A. A. Shanenko and M. D. Croitoru, Phys. Rev. B **73**,
012510 (2006). * [19] " A. A. Shanenko, M. D. Croitoru, M. Zgirski, F.
M. Peeters, and K. Arutyunov, Phys. Rev. B **74**, 052502 (2006). * [20]
" R. J. Nelmes, J. S. Loveday, D. R. Allan, J. M. Besson, G. Hamel, P.
Grima, and S. Hull, Phys. Rev. B **47**, 7668 (1993). * [21] " C. J.
Otten, O. R. Lourie, M. F. Yu, J. M. Cowley, M. J. Dyer, R. S. Ruoff,
and W. E. Buhro, J. Am. Chem. Soc. **124**, 4564 (2002). * [22] " X. J.
Wang, J. F. Tian, T. Z. Yang, L. H. Bao, C. Hui, F. Liu, C. M. Shen, C.
Z. Gu, N. S. Xu, and H. J. Gao, Adv. Mater. **19**, 4480 (2007). * [23]
" D. Emin, Phys. Today **40**(1), 55 (1987). * [24] " D. A. Young,
_Phase Diagram of the Elements_ (University of California Press,
Berkeley, CA, 1991). * [25] " H. K. Mao and P. M. Bell, Rev. Sci.
Instrum. **52**, 615 (1981). * [26] " A. D. Chijioke, W. J. Nellis, A.
Soldatov, and I. F. Silvera, J. Appl. Phys. **98**, 114905 (2005). *
[27] " A. Kahanma and H. Kawamura, J. Appl. Phys. **98**, 083523
(2005). * [28] " L. Sun, A. L. Ruoff, and G. Stupian, Appl. Phys. Lett.
**86**, 014103 (2005). * [29] " N. F. Mott, _Metal-insulator
Transition_, 2nd ed. (Taylor & Francis, London, 1990). * [30] " D. Wang,
J. G. Lu, C. J. Otten, and W. E. Buhro, Appl. Phys. Lett. **83**, 5280
(2003). * [31] " K. Kirihara, Z. Wang, K. Kawaguchi, Y. Shimizu, T.
Sasaki, and N. Koshizaki, Appl. Phys. Lett. **86**, 212101 (2005). *
[32] " N. F. Mott, Adv. Phys. **16**, 49 (1967). * [33] " H. Matsuda, T.
Nakayama, K. Kimura, Y. Murakami, H. Suematsu, M. Kobayashi, and I.
Higashi, Phys. Rev. B **52**, 6102 (1995). * [34] " R. Schmechel, H.
Werheit, V. Kueffel, and T. Lundstrom, _Proceedings of 16th Internal
Conference on Thermoelectric_, (IEEE, New York, 1997) p. 219.
