# Distinguishable effects of oxygen and rhenium in HgBa2CuO4+_d_
superconductors

L. Fabrega and J. Fontcuberta

Institut de Ciencia de Materials de Barcelona, Consejo Superior de
Investigaciones Cientificas, Campus de la UAB,

08193 Bellaterra, Spain

A. Serquis and A. Caneiro

Centro Atomico Bariloche (CNEA), 8400 San Carlos de Bariloche, Argentina

26 January 2000

###### Abstract

Muon spin relaxation and magnetization experiments on Hg1-_x_e_g
Ba2CuO4+_d_ ceramics with different oxygen and Re contents allow us to
discern the effects of the incorporation of both elements in this
superconductor. For all compositions, T_(c) and _s_ -2 are strongly
dependent on d and display a maximum at optimal doping. The optimal
T_(c) and s values are nearly independent of x, thus indicating that the
Re substitution has only second order effects on the basic
superconducting properties of this compound, near optimal doping.
Samples with Re have higher oxygen contents, due to the high valence of
this cation. However, the shift of the T_(c)(_d_) and _s_(_d_) curves
toward higher d values as x increases suggests that the oxygen atoms
coordinating the Re cations are less effective to doping than the excess
oxygen atoms present in Re-free samples.

2000

## Introduction

Cuprate superconductors containing mercury, with general formula
HgBa2Ca_n_-1Cu_n_O2n_+2+_d_, have been the subject of considerable
interest since their late discovery,1 due to their high critical
temperatures–particularly, the n = 3 member of the series displays the
highest T_(c) ever reported for a superconductor, T_(c) = 134 K. These
high _T__c_’s have been ascribed to the large Cu-O apical bond
distances, and to the absence of buckling of the Cu-O planes.2

Studies of these materials soon revealed two important hindrances: their
unstability and difficult synthesis, and their large anisotropy,3 and
consequently, low bulk pinning.4 Considerable efforts have been
therefore devoted to searching for chemical substitutions5-7 which would
both stabilize the phases and reduce their anisotropy. The most
promising result was reported by Shimoyama and co-workers,8 who observed
that the partial substitution (10

Besides providing one of the best ways to estimate the magnetic field
penetration depth l, muon spin relaxation (_m_SR) experiments constitute
a useful technique to detect possible interlayer metallization effects.
In fact, Uemura _et al._13 observed that T_(c)(_s_) of most
high-temperature superconductors (HTS’s) under and close to optimal
doping fall on a unique line, the so-called Uemura line, which is
thought to reflect the behavior of the individual superconducting CuO2
planes. Here _s_ 1/l_^2 _n_, _s_/_m_* is the muon relaxation rate, _ns_
the density of Cooper pairs, and _m_* the effective mass of the charge
carriers. Deviations to the right of this line have been observed for
cuprates with coupled CuO2 planes (Y-123)14,11 and for overdoped
compounds,15 and are therefore considered an indication of interlayer
metallization. Recent convincing evidence of the progressive anisotropy
reduction with overdoping16 support this interpretation.

_m_SR measurements on Hg-based superconductors are scarce. Two Re-doped
ceramics (_n_ = 1,2) were studied by Tallon _et al._;10 these samples
displayed a marked deviation from the Uemura line, and therefore gave
ground to the arguments of the interlayer metallization induced by Re.
Nevertheless, one of these samples was not optimally doped; according to
the above paragraph, overdoping could account for the observed
deviation. New _m_SR experiments were carried out recently17 on two
Re-doped powders of composition Hg0,82Re0.18Sr2CaCu2O6+_d_ and
Hg0,82Re0.18Ba2Ca2Cu3O8+_d_, close to optimal doping. The measured
T_(c)(_s_) data are in quite good agreement with the Uemura line and
thus do not reveal any evidence for interlayer metallization induced by
Re. Data on the unsubstituted compounds have just been reported for the
n = 1 member of the series.18

These scarce and controversial results therefore require for more
systematic studies of these interesting materials. For instance, other
still open, important questions regard the effect of the Ba substitution
for Sr, and the effect of excess oxygen atoms. It was reported that
oxygen treatments may sensibly modify T_(c) and, especially, the
irreversibility line of these superconductors;9,19 furthermore, it has
been recently argued that the _c_-axis shortening resulting from the Sr
substitution might have consequences as important as those due to
Re.17,20 It is important also to stress that the effects of Re, Ba/Sr,
and oxygen are not independent, since the cell parameters and presence
of Re modify the oxygen sites occupancy.

In this paper we undertake the study of the simplest member of the
series, with a single CuO₂ plane. Through the measurements of
Hg_(1 − x)Re_(x)Ba₂CuO_(4 + δ) samples with different oxygen doping and
Re content, we analyze the distinct effects of these two parameters on
two basic superconducting properties: T_(c) and λ. T_(c)(δ) and σ(δ) are
found to shift with x, indicating that the oxygen atoms in the (Hg,
Re)O_(δ) planes bound to the Re atoms provide a reduced charge transfer
to the superconducting CuO₂ planes, as compared with the excess oxygen
atoms present in Re-free samples. The oxygen content is observed to have
significant effects on σ∼n_(s)/m^(*), whereas the σ values of optimally
doped samples are independent of their Re content, thus evidencing that
this cation has little effect on the superconducting properties of this
phase.

## Experiment

High quality Hg_(1 − x)Re_(x)Ba₂CuO_(4 + δ) ceramics with x = 0, 0.10,
and 0.15 were synthesized by the sealed quartz tube technique, as
described elsewhere.[21] X-ray and neutron diffraction as well as
scanning electron microscopy (SEM) did not show any trace of segregated
or impurity phases. Electron dispersion spectroscopy indicated that
within the experimental resolution the grains have an homogeneous
cationic composition, which is close to the nominal one. Additionally,
the cell parameters and bond lengths, determined from Rietveld
refinements of neutron diffraction data, display a monotonic variation
with Re content, thus indicating a gradual incorporation of this cation
to the structure.[22] Profile refinements of the neutron diffraction
data do not reveal the existence of inhomogeneities of the Re content.
No traces of eventual superlattice ordering were observed in
Re-substituted phases.

The oxygen content of the ceramics was modified by different treatments
under oxygen pressures within the range 180 and 1.7×10⁻⁹ atm, and
temperatures between 180 and 550 ^(∘)C: high pressure annealings under
pure oxygen, annealings under He−O₂ atmospheres with controlled O₂
partial pressure, and under ultra high vacuum. The annealing procedures
had to be varied depending on the Re content of the sample. As-grown
samples were progressively overdoped as their Re content increased; at
the same time, oxygen gradually lost mobility. Therefore, as x increased
higher temperatures and lower oxygen pressures were required to obtain
optimally and underdoped samples.[21]

The oxygen content was determined by thermogravimetric and neutron
diffraction analyses.[21] The critical temperature was obtained from the
diamagnetic onset in the low-field temperature-dependent dc
magnetization of ceramic bars, measured with a commercial superconductor
quantum interference device magnetometer. Further characterization of
the superconducting properties of these samples with different oxygen
and Re contents will be published elsewhere.[23]

Transverse field μSR experiments were performed at ISIS
(Rutherford-Appleton Laboratory, United Kingdom). The powders were
cooled in a closed-cycle cryostat, after applying a field H = 500 Oe.
This value was shown in a previous work[17] to be high enough to ensure
that the intervortex spacing in the superconductor is at most of the
order of the penetration depth λ, and thus the observed muon relaxation
rate, due to this modulated field distribution, is σ ∼ 1/λ²∼n_(s)/m^(*).

The muon precession was measured at temperatures between 10 K and above
T_(c). The recorded data display two contributions: a dominant one with
fast amplitude decay plus a nearly constant one, which becomes apparent
at longer times and is present above T_(c). The latter, with precession
frequency corresponding to the external field, is likely due to some
amount of nonsuperconducting material in the sample, or nonscreened
Hg-1201 phase. The first contribution arises from the vortex lattice in
the superconductor, as evidenced by its slightly lower precession
frequency, which results from the negative magnetization of the
superconductor.

In order to obtain the muon relaxation rate associated to the
superconducting state, σ ∝ λ⁻², the recorded signal was thus fitted to a
two-component function; the first component, a Gaussian exp (−σ²t̂²/2),
accounts for the decay due to the field modulation inside the
superconductor; the second, minor, component accounts for the background
contribution, observed also in the normal state. The obtained fits and σ
values were verified to not depend on this background contribution.

When measuring rapidly decaying signals, care must be taken to ensure
that the determined relaxation rate σ is not limited by the finite width
of the muon pulse (40 ns at ISIS). In our measurements, the asymmetry
signal recorded during the experimental runs providing the largest σ
values was not different from that obtained in runs corresponding to
significantly smaller relaxation rates. Thus, the maximum σ values
obtained in this study are not limited by the finite width of the muon
pulse. Further support to this conclusion is provided by the fact that
the temperature dependence of σ is essentially the same-within the error
bars–for all the measured samples, in spite of their rather different
values of T_(c) and σ at low temperatures (see Fig. 2 and related
discussion below).

## Results

Figure 1 shows the evolution of the critical temperature T_(c) with the
oxygen excess δ, for the measured samples. T_(c) is obtained from the
low field (H = 10 Oe) magnetic transition. The inset in Fig. 1 displays
some of these transitions, having

Figure 1: Evolution of the critical temperature with oxygen excess δ,
for samples with different Re content x. (Inset) Low field diamagnetic
transitions of x = 0 samples with different oxygen doping.

typical widths of a few K. The powdered samples showed only partial
field screening, as usually reported for Hg-based superconductors.[24,
25] The dependence of the superconducting volume fraction on δ and x
will be further addressed below.

The T_(c)(δ) points belonging to the Re free samples describe a well
defined bell-shaped curve, as commonly found in these[24, 26] and the
other HTS’s.[27] The data points of samples with Re appear to also
describe a bell-shaped curve, with nearly the same maximum T_(c), but
shifted Δ δ = 0.23 and 0.37 for x = 0.10 and x = 0.15, respectively,
with regard to that of Re-free compounds. Superconducting Re-substituted
phases display thus higher oxygen contents than the unsubstituted ones.
Moreover, Fig. 1 reveals that samples with Re, with oxygen contents
equal to those of heavily overdoped Re-free samples, have T_(c) values
corresponding to optimal doping.

Figure 2 display the evolution with temperature of the muon
depolarization rate for some of the measured ceramics, with different Re
content and doping level. The transition of σ is much broader than that
of dc magnetization [compare for instance Fig. 2(a) with the inset on
Fig. 1, corresponding to the same samples]; this is a feature commonly
observed in HTS materials, and attributed to their d-wave nature.
Nevertheless, a tendency toward saturation of σ at low temperatures may
be clearly appreciated in Fig. 2. The dependence of σ(T) may be
described by a law σ(T) ∼ 1 − (T/T_(c))^(n), with n ∼ 2 − 3 for all the
samples studied; and, particularly, the enhancement of σ when decreasing
the temperature from 20 to 10 K is lower than the error bars of σ, in
all our samples. This saturation trend contrasts with data reported in
Ref. [18] for Re-free Hg-1201 ceramics. In this work none of the
measured samples showed any indication of saturation; for instance, the
change of σ for the optimally doped sample between 20 and 10 K is about
0.33 μs⁻¹, much larger than that observed in our equivalent sample, and
significantly above our error bars. It should be remarked, however, that
the experimental incertitude in the σ values on Fig. 2 allows for a
residual temperature dependence of σ at low temperatures; these data are
thus not in contradiction with the likely d-wave nature of these
materials.

Figure 3 displays the values of the muon depolarization rate of the
$({\rm Hg},{\rm Re}){\rm Ba}_{2}{\rm CuO}_{4+\delta}$ ceramics recorded
at 10 K, as a function of their excess oxygen. The σ(T) dependence,
shown in Fig. 2 and discussed in the previous paragraph, indicates that
these low temperature values are a good approximation to those
corresponding to T = 0. Any monotonic enhancement of σ(x, δ) from its 10
K value toward T = 0 will not modify any of the systematic trends and
behavior discussed in the following.

The data belonging to the Re-free compounds clearly display a maximum at
optimal doping. The Re-substituted phases seem to display the same kind
of behavior, but with the σ(δ) curve shifted progressively to higher δ
values. The maximum value of σ is nearly insensitive to the Re content.
In fact, σ(δ) behaves much like T_(c)(δ): both have a maximum at optimal
doping, fairly independent of x, and display identical shifts in δ as x
increases.

The nonmonotonic dependence of σ with doping is in agreement with that
reported for Re-free Hg-1201 ceramics in Ref. [18]. However, we should
mention that although the σ values for the optimally doped samples are
nearly coincident in both works, some discrepancies exist for the
overdoped samples. Indeed, the σ value of our δ = 0.20 sample is
significantly smaller than that reported in Ref. [18] for a heavily
overdoped sample with δ = 0.37. The reason for such a difference is not
presently understood; however, the reported extreme sensitivity of T_(c)
to the charge carrier density in the overdoped regime[24] may be of
relevance.

## Discussion

The shift of the T_(c)(δ) curve in Fig. 1, roughly proportional to the
Re content, indicates that the superconducting phases with Re have
higher oxygen contents than the Re-free

Figure 3: Values of the low temperature (T = 10 K) muon relaxation rate
σ for superconducting Hg-1201 samples with different Re and oxygen
contents.

Figure 2: Temperature dependence of the muon relaxation rate σ, for
Hg-1201 ceramics with different doping level, for x = 0 (a) and x = 0.15
(b).

ones. In fact, this is what should be expected, since each Re cation
tends to form ReO6 octahedra. In order to fulfil them, four oxygen atoms
should be incorporated into the (Hg, Re)O3 g plane for each Re atom.19
Indeed, the oxygen excess d in as-grown Re-substituted samples is found
to be very close to 4x.21,22 Neutron diffraction data have provided
evidence that in Re-substituted samples nearly all the oxygen atoms in
the (Hg, Re)O6 plane are bound to the Re cations.22

Figure 1 shows also that: (i) the shift of the T_(c)(_d_) curves for
samples with different Re is lower than 4x (D_d_ 0.23 and 0.37 for x =
0.10 and 0.15, respectively), and (ii) the oxygen excess corresponding
to optimal doping deviates progressively from 4x [_d_opt(_x_ = 0.10)
0.42, and _d_opt(_x_ = 0.15)   0.53], i.e., as grown samples become
overdoped as x increases. These two facts reveal that the oxygen atoms
in the (Hg, Re)O_d_ plane bound to Re must contribute to the doping of
the compound, but their role must be different from that of the excess
oxygen atoms present in the HgO_d_ plane of Re-free phases. Following
the crystallographic notation,22 and in order to lighten the text, we
will refer to these two oxygen sites as O(4) and O(3), respectively. The
O(3) atoms are located at the center of the Hg-square network, whereas
the O(4) ones are displaced toward the Re cations.

As stated above, Re-free phases only have O(3) oxygen atoms, whereas in
Re-substituted phases almost all the excess oxygen atoms are O(4). On
the other hand, the optimal doping of the Re-free Hg-1201 structure
corresponds to a hole concentration _p_opt=0.16.24,26 Preliminary
Seebeck measurements on our Re-substituted samples indicate that this
value is not modified by the Re presence,22 as the invariance of the
optimal T_(c) already suggests. These observations allow an estimate of
the effective valence of the excess oxygen atoms O(3) and O(4), as well
as their charge transfer to the superconducting CuO2 planes. Assuming
that when d = 0 the compound is an insulator, which is true for the
Re-free phase,28 and knowing that excess oxygen atoms occupy a single
site [either O(3) or O(4)] at fixed x, one can roughly estimate the
charge transfer of the O(3) and O(4) atoms by dividing _P_opt by the
excess oxygen corresponding to optimal doping _d_opt(_x_). This simple
calculation reveals that in Re-free samples each O(3) atom provides
nearly one hole to the CuO2 planes. This value is in very good agreement
with both theory and detailed Seebeck measurements, which indicate that
the effective valence of the O(3) atoms lies between 0.7 and 1.24,28 For
the x = 0.10 and 0.15 samples, our estimate indicates that each O(4)
provides 0.38 and 0.30 holes, respectively, to the superconducting
planes. The O(4) atoms appear therefore less effective to doping than
the O(3) ones, i.e., there is a reduced charge transfer from the oxygen
atoms coordinating the Re cations in the (Hg, Re)_d_ plane, as compared
to that of excess oxygen atoms in the Re-free compound.

An alternative estimate may be obtained by simply making a charge
balance, assuming that the effective valence of Re is roughly 6 +, as
the Re-O bond length summation suggests.22 The O(4) valence obtained in
such a way is roughly 1.3, both for x = 0.10 and 0.15. Facing this and
the above estimates, it seems clear that each O(4) atom borrows one
electron from the Re cation and about 0.3 from the CuO2 planes. Such a
conclusion is fully consistent with the preferred octahedral
coordination of Re, and the four oxygen atoms brought by each Re cation
to the structure. Thus, although the valence of the O(4) atoms may be
higher than that of the O(3) atoms, they transfer less holes to the
superconducting planes, because they are tightly bound to the high
valence Re cations. This reduced hole doping per oxygen atom is
overbalanced by the higher content of oxygen in Re-substituted samples,
and thus as-grown samples with increasing Re contents are progressively
overdoped.

We now move to the behavior of s with oxygen doping and Re substitution,
shown in Fig. 3. The similarity of the _r_c(_d_,_x_) and _s_(_d_,_x_)
curves suggests that _s_  _n__s__r_/_m_* is mainly reflecting the
changes in the charge carrier density. At a given x, s increases when
going from under to optimal doping, indicating an increase of the
superfluid density. This is a common observation in HTS. Hole doping is
known to lead to an increase of the carrier density and a suppression of
the pseudogap;24,29 in the underdoped regime, both effects result in an
enhancement of the superfluid density. As Fig. 3 reveals, s reaches a
maximum for optimal doping and then decreases again in the overdoped
regime. This fall of s for overdoped samples has also been observed in
other HTS, specially in T1-based compounds.15 It may be due to a
reduction of the Cooper pair density n_(s) or to an enhancement of the
effective mass _m_* of the charge carriers within the _ab_ planes. Since
increasing s above optimal doping results in a progressive increase of
the normal state carrier density in Hg-1201 compounds, at least for d <
0.22,24 a reduction of n_(s) would imply the existence of enhanced pair
breaking in the overdoped state, as argued in Ref. 15. On the other
hand, an increase of _m_* cannot be disregarded as there is increasing
disorder in the BaO layers when increasing the oxygen content: a
displacement of Ba toward the (Hg, Re)O_d_ plane takes place, induced by
the strong bonds between Ba and extra oxygens in this plane.26

Figure 3 reveals that the changes in the oxygen content–and therefore in
doping–have more important effects on s than the substitution of Re for
Hg. Even more, the maximum s value, corresponding to optimal doping, is
shown in Fig. 2 to be nearly independent of the Re content, within the
error bars. This observation, together with the absence of any
significant effect of Re on the optimal T_(c), allows some important
conclusions to be drawn. The insensitivity of the optimal T_(c) to the
Re presence implies that the optimal density of Cooper pairs is not
affected by the Re incorporation. Thus, the invariance of the optimal s
value reveals that the effective mass of the charge carriers remains
also basically unaltered by Re, at least at optimal doping. That is, Re
appears to have minor effects on the basic superconducting parameters of
Hg-1201 compounds. In fact, _none of the Re-substituted samples has
larger s values than those corresponding to optimally doped Re-free
samples. Even more, the slightly underdoped sample with x = 0.15
displays a s value as small as those of more underdoped samples without
Re.

The observed insensitivity of the superconducting properties of these
compounds to the Re presence is to some extent unexpected, since the
incorporation of this cation is known to have important effects on the
crystal structure of the Hg-based phases. The high valence of Re, and
much shorter length of the Re-O bond as compared to the Hg-O bond,
result in structural modifications, evidenced specially in the
shortening of the c-axis length. One would therefore expect relevant
changes in the tails of the band structure of 1201 compounds. In spite
of it, the present results indicate that the Re-induced structural
changes do not modify the conduction band near optimal doping. In this
sense, it would be interesting to perform μSR measurements on
Re-substituted samples far away from optimal doping, particularly in the
underdoped regime, where changes in the band structure and disorder
induced localized states should be more evident. These samples, however,
are hard to obtain, due to the tight Re-O bonds, which reduce
considerably the mobility of oxygen atoms and make oxygen removal
difficult. In view of our results, other interesting experiments should
involve the study and comparison of other cation (Pb, Cr) substituted
Hg-based superconductors, with depressed optimal T_(c).

It had been also suggested that the c-axis shortening and metallic
character of ReO3 should result in an interlayer metallization, and thus
a change in the dimensionality of these superconductors, which would
manifest by a significant enhancement of σ.[10] The present data do not
show any evidence of it, in accordance with some recent results obtained
for the Hg-based compounds with 2 and 3 Cu-O layers.[17]

Finally, we would like to draw attention to the implications of the σ(δ)
behavior shown in Fig. 3, regarding the field penetration depth and
field screening response. Figure 4 displays the superconducting volume
fraction $f_{\rm SC}$ as a function of the excess oxygen δ, for all our
samples. $f_{\rm SC}$ is defined as the ratio between the screened and
total volume of the sample, $f_{\rm SC}$≡$\psi_{\rm SC}/V$, and was
obtained from the slopes of the low field M(H) data in powder samples.
The observation of only a partial field screening in the Meissner state
is common in Hg-based superconductors.[24, 25, 18] Comparison of Figs. 3
and 4 reveals a close similarity of the evolution of σ and $f_{\rm SC}$
with doping that of the σ(δ). Both quantities–as well as T_(c)–display a
maximum at optimal doping. The simplest link between σ and $f_{\rm SC}$
is established by the penetration depth λ. Within the London model, λ
and the muon relaxation rate are related through λ⁻²∼n_(s)/m^(*)∼σ; for
polycrystalline samples with anisotropy ratio λ_(c)/λ_(ab)>5, where
λ_(c) and λ_(ab) are, respectively, the penetration depths along the c
axis and in the ab planes, the λ value extracted from σ is roughly
λ_(ab). Therefore, the existence of a maximum value of σ as a function
of δ implies that λ_(ab) displays a minimum close to optimal doping;
from data in Fig. 3, this optimal value is found to be λ_(ab)=135±3 nm
for x=0. On the other hand, if the superconducting grains have an
average size a comparable to λ_(ab), the screened volume of the ceramic
sample is a factor (1−λ_(ab)/a)² smaller than its overall volume, and
thus $f_{\rm SC}$∼(1−λ_(ab)/a)². The correlation of $f_{\rm SC}$ and σ
revealed by Figs. 3 and 4 suggests that, indeed, the non-monotonic
behavior of the superconducting volume fraction might be reflecting the
dependence of λ with doping. Although SEM images of some of our ceramic
samples indicate the existence of grains as large as 5 μm≫λ_(ab), this
by no means excludes the existence of subgrain boundaries which might
reduce the effective grain size: the extreme sensitivity of Hg-based
compounds to mechanical stress points in this direction.[25] In summary,
the fact that the effective grain size of Hg-based superconducting
ceramics is comparable to λ_(ab) would allow the observation of a
dependence of the superconducting volume fraction on doping, and
establish a relationship between $f_{\rm SC}$ and the measured σ.

## Conclusions

In conclusion, measurements of the muon relaxation rate in Hg-1201
superconductors with different oxygen and Re contents have revealed
their distinct effects on some fundamental parameters of these
superconductors. Oxygen has significant effects on σ and T_(c), which
display a maximum as a function of δ. Re-substituted samples display
higher oxygen content, due to the high valence of the Re cation, and
consequently T_(c)(δ) and σ(δ) are shifted to higher δ values. However,
we have found that their optimal values are nearly insensitive to Re.
Thus, the Re substitution does not appear to produce any relevant
changes on the optimal Cooper pair density, nor on the effective mass of
the charge carriers along the superconducting planes and the effective
dimensionality of the material. It is found that the oxygen atoms bound
to Re in the $({\rm Hg},{\rm Re}){\rm O}_{\delta}$ planes are less
effective to doping than the interstitial oxygen atoms in Re-free
samples; this reduced charge transfer is nearly counterbalanced by the
higher oxygen content due to the Re presence, for x≤0.10; as-grown
samples with higher Re content are progressively overdoped. On the basis
of the present results early suggestions of flux pinning enhancement due
to a Re-induced anisotropy reduction should be reconsidered.

## Acknowledgments

We are indebted to S. Short, J. P. Hodges, and J. Jorgensen, from
Argonne National Laboratory, for providing us with their neutron
diffraction data of the samples studied. We also acknowledge P. J. C.
King for his technical support during the μSR experiments at ISIS. This
work has been financed by the Spanish CICYT (Project No. MAT99-0984),
CNEA (Argentine Atomic Energy Commission), the CEB (Bariloche
Electricity Cooperative) and CONICET (Argentine National Research
Council). L. F. would like to thank the Ministerio de Educacion y
Ciencia (Spain) for her contract.

Figure 4: Dependence of the superconducting volume fraction $f_{\rm SC}$
on the oxygen excess δ, for samples with x=0, 0.10, and 0.15.

## References

* [1] A. Schilling, M. Cantoni, J. D. Guo, and H. R. Ott, Nature
(London) **363**, 56 (1993). * [2] P. G. Radaelli _et al._, Physica C
**216**, 29 (1993); J. L. Wagner, B. A. Hunter, D. G. Hinks, and J. D.
Jorgensen, Phys. Rev. B **51**, 15 407 (1995). * [3] V. Vulcanescu, L.
Fruchter, A. Bertinotti, D. Colson, G. Le Bras, and J.-F. Marucco,
Physica C **259**, 131 (1996). * [4] Y. C. Kim, J. R. Thompson, D. K.
Christen, Y. R. Sun, M. Paranthaman, and E. D. Specht, Phys. Rev. B
**52**, 4438 (1995). * [5] D. Pelloquin, V. Hardy, and A. Maignan, Phys.
Rev. B **54**, 16 246 (1996). * [6] S. Nakajima, T. Oku, K. Nagase, and
Y. Syono, Physica C **262**, 1 (1996). * [7] Z. Iqbal _et al._, Phys.
Rev. B **49**, 12 322 (1994); J. Q. Li, C. C. Lam, J. Feng, and C. K.
Hung, Semicond. Sci. Technol. **11**, 217 (1998). * [8] J. Shimoyama, S.
Hahakura, K. Kitazawa, K. Yamafuji, and K. Kishio, Physica C **224**, 1
(1994). * [9] K. Kishio, J. Shimoyama, A. Yoshikawa, K. Kitazawa, O.
Chmaissen, and J. D. Jorgensen, J. Low Temp. Phys. **105**, 1359
(1996). * [10] J. L. Tallon _et al._, Semicond. Sci. Technol. **10**,
A38 (1997). * [11] H. Yamasaki, Y. Nakagawa, Y. Mawatari, and B. Cao,
Physica C **274**, 213 (1997). * [12] L. Fabrega, B. Martinez, J.
Fontcuberta, A. Sin, S. Pinol, and X. Obradors, J. Appl. Phys. **83**,
7309 (1998). * [13] Y. J. Uemura _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **62**, 2317
(1989). * [14] C. Bernhard _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **52**, 10 488
(1995). * [15] Ch. Niedermayer _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **71**, 1764
(1993). * [16] J. Hoffer _et al._, Physica C **297**, 103 (1998). * [17]
L. Fabrega _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **60**, 7579 (1999). * [18] C.
Panagopoulos _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **60**, 14 617 (1999). * [19] O.
Chmaissem _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **53**, 14 647 (1996). * [20] R.
Puzniak _et al._ Physica C **309**, 161 (1998). * [21] A. Serquis _et
al._ (unpublished). * [22] A. Serquis _et al._ (unpublished). * [23] L.
Fabrega _et al._ (unpublished). * [24] Q. Xiong _et al._, Phys. Rev. B
**50**, 10 346 (1994); Physica C **251**, 216 (1995). * [25] L. Fabrega,
A. Sin, S. Pinol, J. Fontcuberta, D. Eyidi, and J. Rabier, Physica C
**325**, 27 (1999). * [26] Q. Huang, J. W. Lynn, Q. Xiong, and C. W.
Chu, Phys. Rev. B **52**, 462 (1995). * [27] M. R. Presland, J. L.
Tallon, R. G. Buckley, R. S. Liu, and N. E. Flower, Physica C **176**,
95 (1991). * [28] D. J. Singh and W. E. Pickett, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**73**, 476 (1994). * [29] For a recent review on pseudogaps, see, for
instance, B. Batlogg and C. M. Varma, Phys. World **2000**, 34.
