# Thermal conductivity of polycrystalline YBa2Cu4O8

Britt M. Andersson and Bertil Sundqvist

Department of Experimental Physics, Umea University, S-90187 Umea,
Sweden

John Niska and Bengt L. L. L.

Department of Engineering Materials, Luled Technical University, S-95187
Luled, Sweden

2 July 1993; revised manuscript received 26 October 1993

###### Abstract

We have measured the thermal conductivity κ and the thermal diffusivity
a of a dense bulk ceramic polycrystalline sample of YBa2Cu4O8 (1:2:4) in
the temperature range 30-300 K. We find κ = 10 W m-1 K-1 at 100 K,
significantly higher than in ceramic YBa2Cu3O7-8 (1:2:3) and approaching
the in-plane value for single-crystal 1:2:3, and decreasing to 7.6 W m-1
K-1 at 300 K. The data for this sample can be described by standard
theories for phonon thermal conductivity of crystalline materials with
boundary, phonon, and electron scattering. The higher κ in 1:2:4 as
compared to 1:2:3 is, in this model, due to the smaller point defect
scattering in the former. The fitted parameters for the three scattering
mechanisms all agree with independent estimates based on simple models;
inserting data for electric resistivity, grain size, carrier density,
and lattice properties we can predict κ and its T dependence to within
about 20

2000 Mathematics Subject Classification: 05C05, oriented grains with
typical dimensions 20 x 20 x 2 μm³. The porosity was less than 2

### Measurements of thermal conductivity and thermal diffusivity

To obtain the best possible accuracy in k over the range 30 - 310 K two
different methods were used. Below 160 K we measured k by the standard
longitudinal steady-state method.1,11,12 However, in this method thermal
radiation can lead to serious overestimates of k at high T (Refs. 1, 4,
and 11 - 14), and above 70 K we therefore used instead the standard
version of Angstrom’s temperature wave method, which, in principle,
eliminates heat-loss effects. This method actually measures the thermal
diffusivity a, but k can be found from k = _adc__p_, where c_(p) is the
specific-heat capacity.

All measurements were carried out in a vacuum of about 2 x 10-5 mbar
near 300 K and very much better near 100 K. The sample was provided with
a heater in one end and was attached at the other to a copper heat sink
to which all wires were thermally anchored, and which could be screwed
to the inside of a Cu chamber in the cryostat. In the steady-state
method, k was measured over a distance of 5.3 mm on the sample using
calibrated type-_K_ thermocouples, 50 _m_m in diameter. The heater power
was calculated from measured currents and voltages, and the data were
corrected for Joule heating in, and heat conduction along, connecting
wires. A theoretical estimate showed radiation losses to be negligible
(< 1

The thermal diffusivity a was measured using Angstrom’s method,11,12,15
i.e., calculating a from the attenuation and phase shift of a
temperature wave between two points on the sample. In this experiment
the two points were separated by about 1 mm, the signal period was in
the range 4 - 30 s, and we used equipment and methods described by
Jacobsson and Sundqvist.16 Because of the high power used we could not
reach T < 70 K with this method, and the resulting large _dT_ / _dx_
might also smear the sharp changes in _dx_/_dT_ often observed1,2 near
T_(c). With this method the experimental error in k increases at low T,
since _dc__p_/_dT_ increases with decreasing T and small errors in T can
then give large errors in k. c_(p) was measured between 250 and 350 K,
in which range our data differed by a factor of 1.040 +- 0.002 from
literature data.17 Below 250 K we therefore used the data of Ref. 17,
multiplied by this constant to match ours. In some experiments we found
a to depend on signal frequency and the surrounding medium (air or
vacuum). This problem was expected18 because of the small sample and its
low a, but the magnitude of the problem was unexpectedly large which was
traced to heat storage effects in the adhesive holding the thermocouples
in place. Using the theory of Ref. 18 we could reproduce qualitatively
the errors and show them to be below 1

For both methods the dominating source of systematic experimental error
was the uncertainty in sample dimensions and thermocouple distances. We
estimate maximum errors of +- 5 and +- 10

## III Experimental results

Figure 1 shows r as a function of T for our sample. The data are very
similar to previous data10 and, as be

Figure 1: Electric resistivity _ρ_ vs T. Solid curve is a
Bloch-Grüneisen function fitted to the data.

fore, a Bloch-Gruneisen expression for phonon limited resistivity could
be fitted to the data with excellent results. With an effective Debye
temperature Θ_(D) = 276 K and a residual resistivity ρ₀ = 99.3μΩ cm the
rms deviation between the data and the fitted function (shown in the
figure) was 2.5 μΩ cm. As before, the addition of a parallel resistivity
term10$\rho_{\rm par} = 4.4$mΩ cm significantly improved the fit. In the
present case we attribute this term to conduction through
c-axis-oriented grains in the polycrystalline sample, but an intrinsic
saturation behavior cannot be ruled out.20 With $\rho_{\rm par}$
included, the other fitted parameters become Θ_(D) = 389 K and
ρ₀ = 132μΩ cm, and the fit became visibly better with an rms deviation
of 1.6 μΩ cm. The measured ρ at 300 K corresponds10 to an in-plane
resistivity near 400 μΩ cm, in reasonable agreement with
single-crystal21 and thin-film22 data.

In Fig. 2 we show a as a function of T, while final data for κ were
given in Fig. 1 of Ref. 3. Below 140 K we used data obtained by the
steady-state method, while above 140 K we calculated κ from a. In the
region 70−160 K, where both methods were used, the magnitudes of κ
agreed to within the combined errors while the average dκ/dT differed by
about 10

## IV Theoretical Model

### Lattice thermal conductivity

Neglecting unusual mechanisms, such as vortex convection or pair
condensation-evaporation transport believed to exist1 in the
superconducting state, κ can be written as the sum of an electronic
thermal conductivity κ_(e), discussed in the next section, and a phonon
thermal conductivity κ_(p). In HTS materials κ is dominated by κ_(p),
and we analyze our data for κ_(p) using a model based on BCS theory,24
applied to HTS materials by Tewordt and Wolkhausen25 and used in most
works since.1-5 In this model,

κ_(p) = T³∫₀^(θ_(D)/T)τ(x, T)x⁴e^(x)(e^(x) − 1)⁻²dx  ,
(1)

where x = ℏω/k_(B)T and τ(x, T) is a relaxation time. We have included
the usual prefactors1,4,25 in τ, which we write

τ⁻¹ = τ_(b)⁻¹ + τ_(d)⁻¹ + τ_(e)⁻¹ + τ_(p)⁻¹ + τ_(s)⁻¹
(2)
 = A + BT⁴x⁴ + CTxg(x, T/T_(c))
+Df(x, T) + ET²x² .

The terms describe phonon scattering by boundaries, point defects,
electrons, phonons, and sheet defects, respectively, and g(x, T/T_(c))
is the ratio between the relaxation times in the normal and
superconducting states. We neglect the effects of sheetlike faults1,25
since 1:2:4 does not contain twins, although it might contain stacking
faults. We tried several times to add such a term to the fitted
functions but always found a best fit with E = 0. We also exclude the
anisotropy correction1,4 to the electron-phonon term, since we study a
polycrystalline sample, and effects of unusual scattering centers such
as

  ---------------------------- ----------------------------- ------------------------------- -------------------
        Scattering agent        Inverse relaxation time τ⁻¹            Low-T limit              High-T limit
           Boundaries                        A                       λ_(p) = 26T³/A           λ_(p) = Θ_(D)¹/3A
           Electrons                        CTx                      λ_(p) = 7.2T²/C          λ_(p) = Θ_(D)¹/2C
    Phonons (standard model)               DT³x²                      λ_(p) = 3.3/D           λ_(p) = Θ_(D)/DT
   Phonons (Peacor _et al._*)              DT⁴x²                     λ_(p) = 3.3/DT           λ_(p) = Θ_(D)/DT²
    Phonons (Umklapp freeze)        DT³x²exp(−Θ_(D)/αT)       λ_(p) = 3.3[exp (Θ_(D)/αT)]/D   λ_(p) = Θ_(D)/DT
         Sheet defects                     ET²x²                     λ_(p) = 3.3T/E            λ_(p) = Θ_(D)/E
  ---------------------------- ----------------------------- ------------------------------- -------------------

Table 1: Limiting low- and high-T behavior of the lattice thermal
conductivity λ_(p) for the different scattering mechanisms and models
discussed in the text.

Figure 2: Thermal diffusivity a as a function of T from one experiment.

tunneling states.[1] Fluctuation effects may be important near T_(c),
since a decrease in carrier density decreases the electron scattering
rate and thus increases κ_(p) above that given by the model, but as
discussed by Cohn _et al._[14] no theory yet exists for such effects on
κ_(p).

To illustrate the effects of various scattering terms we define phonon
thermal resistivities W_(ρ) (i = b, d, e, p, and s) as the resistivity
W_(ρi) = κ_(p)⁻¹(τ = τ_(i)) found from (1) if only a single scattering
mechanism is active. We show in Table 1 the low- and high-T behavior of
four of these terms, excluding the point-defect term which can only
dominate at intermediate T. (We define W_(p) as the total phonon thermal
resistivity W_(p) = κ_(p)⁻¹.)

For the phonon-phonon interaction term f(x, T) we tried several models
which we discuss in some detail, since this mechanism dominates[3]κ in
1:2:4. The standard model[11, 26, 27]f = T³x² gives κ_(p) ∝ T⁻¹ at
T > Θ_(D), but below about Θ_(D)/4 it gives a constant κ_(p), while
experiments show[11] an exponential increase due to freezing out of
Umklapp processes. We have thus added a factor exp (−Θ_(D)/αT) as
suggested in the literature;[11, 26] the constant α varies the effective
Umklapp cutoff temperature, and data for insulators[11, 26] suggest
α ≈ 2.2. Instead of an exponential term, Cohn _et al._[5, 13] and Peacor
and co-workers[4, 28] use f = T⁴x² since this gave[4] the best fit to
the low-T data. However, such a term gives κ_(p) ∝ T⁻² at high T which
does not agree with experiments. Florent’ev _et al._[29] even use
f = T⁵x², giving κ_(p) ∝ T⁻³ at high T.

We illustrate the differences between the terms in Fig. 3, showing
calculated values for W_(pp) vs T/Θ_(D) for the "classical" term
τ_(p)⁻¹ = DT³x², the modified term DT⁴x² used by Peacor _et al._[4], and
two terms DT³x²exp (−Θ_(D)/αT), one with α = 2.2 as for insulators[11,
26] and one with α = 5 to shift the Umklapp cutoff to T < Θ_(D), thus
giving W_(pp) ∝ T down to very low T. Data are shown for 0 ≤ T ≤ 2Θ_(D)
and normalized such that W_(pp) = 1 at T = Θ_(D). The behavior observed
experimentally, W_(pp) ∝ T at high T and an exponential decrease below,
is only shown by the exponential terms, but Fig. 3 suggests a reason why
Peacor and co-workers[4, 28] and Cohn and co-workers[5, 13] could
successfully use τ_(p)⁻¹ = DT⁴x⁴. Below 0.5Θ_(D) this term has a T
dependence very similar to that of the exponential term.

For ρ we can assume that terms due to different scattering mechanisms
add to give ρ = ρ_(ρ_(ρ)) + ρ₀ (Matthiessen’s rule). This is _not_ true
for W, except[11] in the rare case that normal phonon-phonon scattering
dominates κ. We illustrate this in Figs. 4(a)-4(c) which show calculated
data for W_(ρi), as defined above, vs T/Θ_(D). Figure 4(a) shows
κ_(ρ) = W_(pe)⁻¹ and κ_(pp) = W_(pp)⁻¹, both normalized to 1 at
T = Θ_(D) by a suitable choice of the parameters C and D. If
Matthiessen’s rule is valid we can calculate κ_(p) by adding thermal
resistivities, such that κ_(p) = (W_(pe) + W_(pp))⁻¹ (dashed curve in
the figure), i.e., κ_(p) = 0.5 at T = Θ_(D). Carrying out the
calculation using

Figure 4: Calculated data for relative κ_(p) vs T/Θ_(D). (a) Solid
curve: W_(pp)⁻¹, dotted: W_(pp)⁻¹. Dashed curve is (W_(pp) + W_(pp))⁻¹
while dot-dashed is calculated from Eq. (1) using
τ⁻¹ = τ_(c)⁻¹ + τ_(p)⁻¹. (See text for details.) (b) Same as (a), but
with point-defect scattering instead of electron scattering. (c) Full
curve: W_(pp)⁻¹. The curves below show the effect of adding increasing
amounts of point-defect scattering, from the top down corresponding to
W_(pd) = 0.1, 1, and 10

(1) we find k_(p) = 0.45 at this T, and the result thus agrees with
Matthiessen’s rule to within about 10

### Electronic thermal conductivity

In the normal state, k_(e) is 10-15

Although other models have been suggested, [6, 7] it is usually assumed
that k_(e) can be calculated reasonably accurately from r, using
Wiedemann-Franz’ law. As a first approximation we have thus used the
expression [11]κ_(e) = TL₀/ρ above T_(e). Since r extrapolates to r 0 at
T = 0, k_(e) 1 W m-1 K-1 is then [3] almost independent of T. Below
T_(e), k_(e) is found by extrapolating r and using correction factors
from Geilikman, Dushenat, and Chechetkin. [32] However, as shown
previously [3] this procedure gives an upper limit only, since we have
not taken inelastic electron scattering into account, [11] and we showed
[3] that the exclusion of such an effect leads to significant errors.
Depending on the model used, our calculations showed that k_(e) may be
up to 40

In principle we should also take into account superconducting
fluctuations near T_(e), but this is a small effect: Cohn _et al._[14]
find its magnitude to be < 1

## V Discussion

### Fitting procedure and general results

We have fitted Eqs. (1) and (2) to our data for k_(p), found by
subtracting k_(e) from the total k. Several models were used: We have
used both models for k_(e) discussed above, all three models for k_(p)
discussed in Sec. IV.1 (with a = 1, 2.2, 5, and 10), and values for
T_(e) and the gap-scaling parameter [1, 25]χ in the ranges 75-79 K and
0.5-1.74, respectively. We have also used _Th__D_ as an adjustable
parameter because, first, the effective _Th__D_ found from the fit to
_r_(_T_) was much lower than the average value 525 K found from
[17]c_(p) between 100 and 300 K, prompting us to look for similar
effects in k_(p), and second, the standard model for W_(p) could not
describe k_(p) vs T well with _Th__D_ = 525 K. The latter effect was
traced to the constant low-_T__W__pp_ given by this model (see Table I
and Fig. 3), and to improve the fit we tried a lower _Th__D_.

Since the number of data points per unit temperature varies with T (Fig.
1 of Ref. 3), a fit to all points overestimates the importance of the
high-_T_ data and forces the fitted function to agree with these at the
expense of the data near and below T_(e). We have thus fitted Eq. (1) to
a data set where most of the high-_T_ data have been deleted. The
fitting routine was based on a nonlinear gradient search method, forcing
all parameters to remain non-negative. When the best fit was found with
one parameter equal to zero we deleted the corresponding term in (2) to
speed up the final fitting procedure. To ensure that our results would
be directly comparable with those of Peacor _et al._[4] for 1:2:3 we
used in our program subroutines for g (_x_,_T_/_T__e_) written by Cohn
of this group and communicated by Uher at the University of Michigan.

The results from this procedure are shown in Table II and in Fig. 5.
Table II lists the values for _Th__D_ and parameters A - D found to give
the best fit to the data for each model. (Data for the exponential t_(p)
with a = 10 were almost identical to those for a = 5.) The quality of
the fit is indicated by the relative rms differences D_(k) between our
data and the fitted functions. Since we used a reduced data set, D_(k)
does not relate directly to the data shown in Ref. 3, but D_(k) = 1 as
given for the best fit corresponds to a difference of 0.23 W m-1 K-1 rms
between the experimental data and the fitted function. We made several
attempts to include a sheet-defect term but always found the best fit
for E = 0. Also, the best fits were always found with $T_{\rm c} = 79$ K
and χ = 1, i.e., a BCS gap, and except for one case all data in the
table were found using these parameters in the fit. Since we used Θ_(D)
as a free parameter, we also show for several of the models
corresponding results for Θ_(D) = 525 K (as found from c_(p)) for
comparison.

For comparison we have also fitted single-crystal 1:2:3 data given by
Peacor and co-workers[4, 28] (sample 1, data read from figures) to our
model, i.e., excluding the anisotropy correction, but including
sheet-defect scattering. Table II shows both the parameters given by
Peacor comparison.

_et al._4 and those obtained here. Excluding the anisotropy term does
not significantly change the results for the point-defect and phonon
scattering, while the electron-phonon term changes by about 30

From Table II we find several interesting results: (i) For 1:2:4, the
best fits are found with Θ_(D) significantly _lower_ than 525 K; a
similar, but smaller Θ_(D) reduction is found for 1:2:3; (ii) the best
fits were found using f = T³x²exp(−Θ_(D)/5T), but with a variable Θ_(D),
f = T³x² gives very similar results; (iii) with a variable Θ_(D) the
best fits were always found _without_ point-defect scattering (B = 0);
(iv) taking inelastic scattering into account in κ_(e) improves the fit
very little and does not change the fitted parameters much, and (vi)
with a variable Θ_(D) the parameters obtained in different models are
surprisingly similar, with variations rarely larger than +-15

The fitted parameters are very stable with respect to the choice of
model, and different selections of data points in the set gave very
similar results. That the results for the two models for κ_(e) agree so
well is surprising, considering that the magnitudes of κ_(e) differ by
up to 40

### Phonon-phonon scattering

The relative importance of the different scattering terms can be found
from Fig. 6. Inspired by Fig. 3 of Ref. 4 we show the total thermal
resistivity W_(p) plus the results obtained when removing one scattering
mechanism at a time from the fitted function. Boundary scattering
clearly dominates κ_(p) up to 200 K, above which phonon scattering
becomes more important, while electron scattering has only a small
effect except near 100 K, where it is comparable with phonon scattering
in importance. Different models for τ_(p) give very similar results,
with the exception of the term f = T⁴x², which always gives the worst
fit (Table II). With low values for Θ_(D), all functions except T⁴x²
give the same T⁻¹ dependence for κ_(p) above the peak and the
exponential Umklapp cutoff at low T cannot be observed. However, with
Θ_(D) = 525 K as originally used, the Umklapp cutoff starts above T_(c),
and in this case the addition of an exponential term does give a
significant improvement (Table II). The high optimum value for α( = 5)
might indicate that Umklapp scattering is important to very low T in the
complicated lattice of 1:2:4, as recently suggested by de Wette and
Kulkarni [35] for 1:2:3.

The fact that the fitted values for Θ_(D) (150 - 195 K) are
significantly lower than data from c_(p) (Ref. 17) was discussed in Ref.
3, and we concluded that since most of the heat is carried by acoustical
phonons,11,36 the effective Θ_(D) for heat conduction should be lower
than that obtained from c_(p) which includes high-energy optical modes.
This is partly verified by de Wette and Kulkarni,35 who calculated Θ_(D)
for the acoustical branches for 1:2:3 and found values in the range
140 - 185 K, significantly lower than those (330 - 460 K) found taking
all modes into account. Θ_(D) varies strongly with T_(c) since the
actual phonon spectrum37 of 1:2:4 is anything but Debye-like, and we
note again that we can obtain an excellent fit to our data over limited
ranges in T by an appropriate choice of Θ_(D) (see inset in Fig. 5). For
comparison, we show in Table II results for Θ_(D) = 525 K; the fitted
A − D are still physically acceptable, but the rms deviation from the
experimental data is more than 50

One should be very cautious trying to deduce physical results from
statistical fits with several independent parameters, and we must ask
whether the present results are significant. First-principles
calculations of κ_(p) using realistic models are possible for simple
materials27 but not for such complicate structures as those for HTS’s.
Slack36 gives a simple expression for W_(pp) in crystals with a
complicated lattice,

Figure 6: Phonon thermal resistivity W_(p) vs T (full curve). Lower
three curves show results obtained by removing one scattering mechanism
at a time: 1—no electron scattering, 2—no phonon scattering, 3—no
boundary scattering.

W_(pp) = A_(o)γ²n_(c)^(2/3)T(Ma₀Θ_(D)³)⁻¹ ,

where **_M_** is an average atomic weight, a0 is the cube root of the
atomic volume, n_(c) is the number of atoms per unit cell, A_(o) is a
constant, and g the Gruneisen parameter. Here, g is usually approximated
by g = _bVK_/_c__o_, where b is the volume thermal expansivity, V is the
atomic volume, and K is the bulk modulus, while for _th__D_ we take the
high-_T_ limit. The model takes only longitudinal acoustic phonons into
account, and for n_(c) > 3 calculated values may differ by a factor of
5-8 from experimental data even for cubic materials.36 For 1:2:4 at 300
K we have38 b = 35 x 10-6 K-1 and39K = 112 GPa, and approximating c, by
c_(p) we find g = 1.43. From the fitted value for D and Eqs. (1)-(2) we
find an "experimental" value for W_(p) of approximately 2.7 x 10-4 T mK
W-1, while inserting the high-_T_ limit17 Ph_D_ = 545 K into Eq. (3) we
find 3.4 x 10-4 T. Alternatively, we should perhaps use Ph_D_ = 200 K
for acoustic phonons at high T, giving an order-of-magnitude change in
W_(p), but we must then also use the correct g for these phonons, which
we have not found in the literature. Considering the simplicity of the
theory, the fitted value for D is physically reasonable and actually in
surprisingly good agreement with theory.

### Defect and boundary scattering

The main difference between 1:2:3 and 1:2:4 in terms of the fitted
parameters is the size of the defect-scattering term. In 1:2:3, this
term4,5 dominates k_(p) and determines its magnitude at practically all
T. Such strong defect scattering will also depress the slope
_d__k__p_/_dT_ below that expected when phonon-phonon scattering is
present [see Fig. 4(c)], as observed for _d__k__p_/_dT_ in 1:2:3. For
our 1:2:4 sample we always found a best fit for B = 0, except when using
high, fixed values of Ph_D_ giving a low-quality fit. As discussed
before,3 we believe that the stable oxygen level in 1:2:4 gives a weaker
point-defect scattering in sintered 1:2:4 than even in single-crystal
1:2:3, in agreement with the fact14,40 that k_(p) decreases with
increasing 8 in 1:2:3. Since point-defect scattering interacts with
electron or phonon scattering to reduce strongly the magnitude of k_(p)
(Sec. IV.1), the virtual absence of oxygen defects thus explains both
why k_(p) in our sintered 1:2:4 sample is larger than in sintered 1:2:3
and, near T_(c), even larger than the in-plane k_(p) for many single
crystal 1:2:3 samples,1,13 and why _d__k__p_/_dT_ is different in the
two materials.

Because of the small grains, boundary scattering dominates k_(p) over a
large range in T. In Fig. 6 we see that the importance of boundary
scattering equals or exceeds that of phonon-phonon scattering at T < 200
K, and that it is always more important than the electron-phonon term.
No large increase can thus occur in k_(p) below T_(c). To check our
model we have calculated an average grain size L from the fitted value
for A in Eq. (2). A comparison with expressions given by Tewordt and
Wolkhausen25 shows that

A = 2π(4π/3)^(−1/3)ℏa²(Θ_(D)/k_(B))²L⁻¹ ,

where a is an average lattice constant. Inserting a typical value A = 7
x 104 we find an effective grain diameter of 6 _m_m, in agreement with
the experimental value (Sec. II.1). Because of the small point-defect
term, k should be very high in single crystal 1:2:4 below T_(c). This
should be important in technical applications where the high-_T_
stability of 1:2:4 would be an added bonus.

### Phonon-electron scattering

Our results for C differ from those given by Peacor _et al._ for 1:2:3,
but the difference is mainly due to the different models. Cohn _et al._5
state that neglecting the anisotropy term in (1) leads to values for C
40

W_(pe) T/ρ = π²n_(a)²/3L₀ .

_W__pe_/_p_ should thus increase with the number n_(a) of free carriers
per atom (i.e., with increasing carrier density n or decreasing _d_),
but data5 for single-crystal and melt-processed 1:2:3 tend to show the
inverse behavior, with _W__pe_/_p_ increasing with increasing 8. We
might argue that free-electron theory cannot describe 1:2:4 or 1:2:3,
but even in better models we expect r <= _n_-1 and W_(e) <= n, and the
deviations from the proportionality _W__pe_/_p_ <= n2 are thus difficult
to explain. Possibly, the use of a better approximation than
τ_(p)⁻¹ = T⁴x², as used by Cohn _et al._, might give C values that agree
better with theory. We expected the high r of our sample (compared to
single crystal 1:2:3) and the higher carrier density41 in 1:2:4 to give
a higher W_(e) for 1:2:4, but this is not found, probably because the
free-electron model is too crude to allow comparisons between materials.
However, applying (4) to our data gives n_(a) = 0.081 holes per atom or
n = 6 x 1021 cm-3, in excellent agreement with n = 0.27 (CuO2 unit)-1 =
5.4 x 1021 cm-3 found from band-structure calculations.41 The fitted
magnitude of D is thus quite reasonable.

Hall-effect measurements show a strong T dependence42 of the Hall
coefficient R_(H) below 150 K in 1:2:4, sometimes interpreted as an
increased in n by a factor of 2-3 from T_(c) to 150 K. This would imply
a similar increase in W_(e) which, if true, should cause a more rapid
decrease in k_(p) with T than predicted by (1) and a smaller
_d__k__p_/_dT_ above 150 K. Such an effect is, in fact, observed (Fig.
5). To test this we added an "adjustment factor" _F_(_T_) to the
electron-phonon term such that τ_(e)⁻¹ = CFTxg(x, T/T_(c)); F simulated
_n_(_T_) as given by R_(H)(_T_) by taking F = 1 for T > 150 K, then
decreasing linearly from 1 to 0.2 between 150 and 70 K. As shown in Fig.
7 and Table II this modification gave an improvement in D _A_R_ by about
11

Near T_(c), finally, fluctuation effects might give important effects on
the electron-phonon term since the formation of hole pairs would reduce
the scattering rate and thus decrease W_(pe). As shown by Fig. 5, the
model gives too low values for κ_(p) near T_(c) and a fluctuation
correction would improve the fit. However, we have not pursued this
question for lack of theoretical models for the effect of fluctuations
on κ_(p).

### Thermal conductivity under high pressure

Very recently, we have also measured44κ as a function of p for the same
sample. Our measurements show that κ increases slowly with p above 150
K, but decreases below. We estimated the p dependence of the three
scattering terms in κ_(p) from simple theories, finding that the
boundary scattering term should vary slowly with p and that the
phonon-phonon scattering term W_(pp) should decrease by about 6

## VI Conclusions

We have shown that κ in a sample of dense, bulk YBa₂Cu₄O₈ is
surprisingly different from that found in the very similar material
YBa₂Cu₃O⁷ ⁻ ⁸. Analyzing the data in a semiclassical model, we attribute
this difference mainly to the fact that oxygen vacancies are much less
common in 1:2:4 than in 1:2:3 because of the well-defined oxygen
stoichiometry of the former.

Fitting the data for κ_(p) to our model we obtain a very good fit from
30 to 300 K, with rms differences between data and the fitted function
of 2-3

However, the difference between the data and the fitted function shows a
systematic trend with T, and the fitted function predicts a sharper
anomaly at T_(c) than seen experimentally. Originally we attributed this
to the model, and assumed that a better fit could only be obtained using
a more advanced model, by including the effect of superconducting
fluctuations near T_(c), or perhaps even using models based on other
types of excitations. However, the fit in this region could be
significantly improved by small modifications of the fitting parameters
(see inset in Fig. 5); in fact, an excellent fit could be obtained in
this way over any "small" range in T with D_T_ = 50-150 K. We now
believe that the problem lies on a more basic level: The Debye lattice
model used is not a good approximation for either 1:2:3 or 1:2:4, as
evident from the real problem spectrum37 and from the strong T
dependence of Θ_(D) given by data17 for c_(p). We believe that an even
better agreement with theory would be obtained if we either used the
real phonon spectrum or allowed Θ_(D) to vary with T. A small
fluctuation term might also be present very close to T_(c) and, as shown
above, an improved fit

Figure 7: Same as Fig. 5, except that a model with a T-dependent carrier
density was used in the fit (see text for details).

could also be obtained by assuming that the carrier density varied with
T below 150 K, or by improving the treatment of κ_(e) by including
inelastic scattering. However, we believe that the main source for the
deviations observed is the simplified treatment of the lattice
properties of 1:2:4.

Our most important conclusion is thus that our data for x as a function
of T and p can be explained by semi-classical theory, with no need for
alternative models.[6, 7] This may be due to the fact that κ_(p) in our
sample is limited mainly by boundary and phonon scattering, for both of
which a good theory exists. A more severe test of the theory would be
measurements on a single crystal, in which case electron-phonon
scattering would be much more important. Such a study would give
interesting information on the carrier-phonon interaction in HTS’s,
especially since the effects of point defects on κ_(p) should be much
smaller than in 1:2:3. Also, as shown in Ref. [3], such a study might
also help solve other basic questions regarding transport in high
transition temperature superconductors.

## Acknowledgments

We thank P. Skoglund and A. Fransson, Department of Applied Physics,
Umea University, for measuring c_(p), and Professor C. Uher, Michigan,
for supplying us with a copy of the subroutine used for calculating the
function g. This work was financially supported by the Swedish Natural
Science Research Council (NFR) and the Swedish Board for Technical
Development (STU).

## References

* [1] C. Uher, J. Supercond. **3**, 337 (1990); in _Physical Properties
of High-Temperature Superconductors III_, edited by D. M. Ginsberg
(World Scientific, Singapore, 1992), p. 159. * [2] A. Jezowski and J.
Klamut, in _Studies of High-Temperature Superconductors_, edited by A.
V. Narlikar (Nova Science, Commack, 1990), Vol. 4, p. 263; M. D. Nunez
Regueiro and D. Castello, Int. J. Mod. Phys. **B 5**, 2003 (1991). * [3]
B. M. Andersson and B. Sundqvist, Phys. Rev. B **48**, 3575 (1993). *
[4] S. D. Peacor _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **44**, 9508 (1991). * [5] J. L.
Cohn _et al._, Physica C **192**, 435 (1992). * [6] R. C. Yu _et al._,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **69**, 1431 (1992). * [7] S. Wermbter and L. Tewordt,
Physica C **183**, 365 (1991); Z. C. Tao and M. Singh, Phys. Rev. B
**45**, 12 988 (1992); A. S. Alexandrov and N. F. Mott, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**71**, 1075 (1993). * [8] J. Niska _et al._, J. Mater. Sci. Lett.
**9**, 770 (1990). * [9] R. J. Cava _et al._, Nature (London) **338**,
328 (1989). * [10] B. M. Andersson _et al._, Physica C **170**, 521
(1990). * [11] R. Berman, _Thermal Conduction in Solids_ (Clarendon,
Oxford, 1976). * [12]_Thermal Conductivity_, edited by R. P. Tye
(Academic, New York, 1969); _Compendium of Thermophysical Property
Measurement Methods_, edited by K. D. Maglic, A. Cezairliyan, and V. E.
Peletsky (Plenum, New York, 1984). * [13] J. L. Cohn, S. A. Wolf, and T.
A. Vanderah, Phys. Rev. B **45**, 511 (1992). * [14] J. L. Cohn _et
al._, Phys. Rev. B **45**, 13 144 (1992). * [15] A. J. Angstrom, Ann.
Phys. Chem. **64**, 513 (1861). * [16] P. Jacobsson and B. Sundqvist, J.
Phys. Chem. Solids **49**, 441 (1988). * [17] A. Junod _et al._, Physica
C **168**, 47 (1990). * [18] B. Sundqvist, Int. J. Thermophys. **12**,
191 (1991). * [19] B. Sundqvist and G. Backstrom, Rev. Sci. Instrum.
**47**, 177 (1976). * [20] B. Sundqvist and B. M. Andersson, Solid State
Commun. **76**, 1019 (1990); B. Sundqvist, Mod. Phys. Lett. B **7**, 491
(1993). * [21] B. Bucher _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **70**, 2012 (1993);
J. Schoenes _et al._, Physica C **166**, 145 (1990). * [22] S. Martin
_et al._, Phys. Rev. B **39**, 9611 (1989); R. C. Budhani _et al._,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **64**, 1666 (1990). * [23] V. Calzona _et al._,
Europhys. Lett. **13**, 181 (1990); T. Higashi _et al._, Physica C
**185-189**, 1357 (1991); S. B. Peralta, Z. H. Chen, and A. Mandelis,
Appl. Phys. **A 52**, 289 (1991). * [24] J. Bardeen, G. Rickayzen, and
L. Tewordt, Phys. Rev. **113**, 982 (1959). * [25] L. Tewordt and Th.
Wolkhausen, Solid State Commun. **70**, 839 (1989). * [26] G. Klemens,
in _Solid State Physics, Advances in Research and Applications_, edited
by F. Seitz and D. Turnbull (Academic, New York, 1958), Vol. 7, p. 1. *
[27] S. Pettersson, Phys. Rev. B **43**, 9238 (1991). * [28] S. D.
Peacor, J. L. Cohn and C. Uher, Phys. Rev. B **43**, 8721 (1991). * [29]
V. V. Florent’ev _et al._, Sverkhprovodimost (KIAE) **3**, 2302 (1990)
[Superconductivity **3**, 5378 (1991)]. * [30] B. Sundqvist, Phys. Rev.
B **48**, 14 712 (1993). * [31] J. E. Jaffe, A. D. Kulkarni, and F. W.
de Wette, Physica C **185-189**, 1405 (1991). * [32] B. T. Geilikman, M.
I. Dushenat, and V. R. Chechetkin, Zh. Eksp. Teor. Fiz. **73**, 2319
(1977) [Sov. Phys. JETP **46**, 1213 (1977)]. * [33] C. Jiang and J. P.
Carbotte, Phys. Rev. B **48**, 3853 (1993). * [34] T. R. Ravindran, V.
Sankaranarayanan, and R. Srinivasan, Pramana **39**, 109 (1992); E. E.
Anders _et al._, Fiz. Nizk. Temp. **18**, 918 (1992) [Sov. J. Low Temp.
Phys. **18**, 646 (1992)]. * [35] F. W. de Wette and A. D. Kulkarni,
Phys. Rev. B **46**, 14 922 (1992). * [36] G. A. Slack, in _Solid State
Physics: Advances in Research and Applications_, edited by F. Seitz and
D. Turnbull (Academic, New York, 1979), Vol. 34, p. 1. * [37] K. K. Yim,
J. Oitmaa, and M. M. Elcombe, Solid State Commun. **77**, 385 (1991). *
[38] C. Meingast _et al._, Physica C **209**, 591 (1993). * [39] H. A.
Ludwig _et al._, Physica C **167**, 335 (1990). * [40] N. V.
Zavaritskii, A. V. Samoilov, and A. A. Yurgens, Pis’ma Zh. Eksp. Teor.
Fiz. **48**, 221 (1988) [JETP Lett. **48**, 242 (1988)]; A. Jezowski _et
al._, Supercond. Sci. Technol. **1**, 296 (1989). * [41] See, for
example, R. P. Gupta and M. Gupta, Physica C **204**, 349 (1993), and
references therein. * [42] K. Char _et al._ Phys. Rev. B **38**, 834
(1988); J. Schoenes _et al._, Physica C **166**, 145 (1990); M. Affronte
_et al._, _ibid._**172**, 131 (1990). * [43] J. Fugol _et al._, Solid
State Commun. **86**, 385 (1993). * [44] B. M. Andersson and B.
Sundqvist, Physica C **216**, 187 (1993).
