Lattice parameter and T_(c) dependence of sintered MgB₂ superconductor
on hydrostatic pressure

Jie Tang

National Institute for Materials Science, 1-2-1 Sengen, Tsukuba
305-0047, Japan

Lu-Chang Qin

JST-ICORP Nanotubulite Project, c/o NEC Corporation, 34 Miyakigaoka,
Tsukuba 305-8501, Japan

Akiyuki Matsushita

National Institute for Materials Science, 1-2-1 Sengen, Tsukuba
305-0047, Japan

Yoshihiko Takano

National Institute for Materials Science, 1-2-1 Sengen, Tsukuba
305-0047, Japan

Kazumasa Togano

National Institute for Materials Science, 1-2-1 Sengen, Tsukuba
305-0047, Japan

Hijiri Kito

National Institute for Materials Science, 1-2-1 Sengen, Tsukuba
305-0047, Japan

Hideo Ihara

National Institute for Materials Science, 1-2-1 Sengen, Tsukuba
305-0047, Japan

2 April 200120013 September 2001

###### Abstract

Hydrostatic pressure up to 10 GPa has been applied to determine the
lattice compressibility and the dependence of transition temperature
T_(c) of an MgB₂ superconducting material that shows a very narrow
transition range when prepared by high-pressure sintering. The
transition temperature T_(c) decreases with increasing pressure at a
rate of 1.03 K/GPa. The material has a bulk modulus 172 GPa and the unit
cell of the MgB₂ crystals shows an anisotropic compressibility with its
c axis appearing more compressible than the a/b axis. The experimental
results are discussed within the framework of the BCS theory, which
gives rise to estimates in good agreement with the experimental results.

pacs: DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.64.132509 PACS number(s): 74.62.Fj,
62.50.+p, 74.25.Fy, 74.70.Ad + Footnote †: preprint: APS/123-QED

The discovery of superconductivity in MgB₂ crystals at 39 K by Nagamatsu
_et al._[1] has excited intensive interest in and research on this
material. It represents the highest T_(c) so far discovered in a binary
system, much higher than the Nb₃Ge alloy (T_(c)=23.2 K). The simple MgB₂
crystal structure with the space group of P6/mmm (a = 3.086 A and c =
3.524 A) consists of a layered stacking with alternating Mg and B layers
on top of each other. A few theoretical analyses have been presented to
discuss the fundamental mechanism responsible for the superconductivity
in this material. The conduction bands of the sp²-bonded boron sheets
have been suggested to contribute to the superconductivity, which result
from the strong electron-phonon interaction and the high phonon
frequency associated with the honeycomblike boron structure.[2]

Following the announcement of the discovery, several reports have been
released reporting measurements of the pressure effects on MgB₂
materials prepared under various conditions. Vogt _et al._[3]
characterized the bulk modulus of the commercially available high-purity
MgB₂ powders using high pressure and obtained B₀= 151 GPa using the
first-order Murnaghan equation of state

$$V = V_{0}\left( \begin{array}{c} 1 + P\frac{B_{0}^{\prime}}{B_{0}} \\ \end{array} \right)^{- 1/B_{0}^{\prime}},$$

where V is the unit cell volume at pressure, P, B₀^(′)= 4, and V₀ and B₀
are the unit cell volume and the bulk modulus at ambient condition,
respectively. This measurement gives rise to a value for the volume
compressibility, defined as κ= − (1/V₀)dV/dP, of about 6.7x10-3 GPa-1 to
a good approximation. Pressides _et al._[4] measured the compressibility
of the material of Nagamatsu _et al._[1] and obtained a volume
compressibility of 8.3x10-3 GPa-1. Lorenz, Meng, and Chu[5] prepared the
MgB₂ material by a solid-state reaction method and measured the T_(c)
dependence on hydrostatic pressure up to 1.84 GPa and obtained
dT_(c)/dP→− 1.6 GPa-1. Loa and Syassen showed a theoretical analysis and
suggested a reducing rate of 1.6 K/Ga in response to pressure.[6]
Jorgensen, Hinks, and Short[7] reported their results on the
crystal-lattice properties of MgB₂ versus both temperature (11∼ 297 K)
and pressure (0∼ 0.62 GPa) using neutron diffraction.

In this paper, we report results on experimental measurement of the
electrical resistivity and lattice compressibility, under hydrostatic
pressure up to 10 GPa, of the MgB₂ superconducting material. The MgB₂
material employed in the present investigation was prepared using a
higher pressure (3.5 GPa comparing with the pressure of 0.2 GPa used by
Nagamatsu _et al._[1] and higher sintering temperature (1000 degC). This
material shows substantial improvements in its superconducting
performance.[8] For example, the transition range, defined by the width
in temperature between points with 10

We utilized an anvil cell fitted into a clamp machine to obtain
hydrostatic pressure for measuring the electrical resistivity using the
standard four-probe method. For _in-situ_ measurement of the lattice
parameters under pressure, a diamond anvil cell was employed and
synchrotron x-ray diffractograms were collected on imaging plates, using
the photon factory beam line 18C at the High Energy Accelerator Research
Organization (KEK), Tsukuba, Japan.

The electrical resistance of the MgB₂ superconducting material was
measured as a function of temperature at each fixed pressure with the dc
four-probe method using a cubic anvil apparatus operated up to 10 GPa.
The cubic anvil device is compressed evenly from six directions with six
anvil tops thereby producing a hydrostatic pressure on the sample
material sealed in the gasket. The gasket material is a mixture of
amorphous boron and epoxy resin in 4:1 weight ratio. Fluorinert liquid
is used as the pressure medium to maintain hydrostatic pressure. Low
temperature down to 7 K is attained with a continuous flow of liquid
nitrogen and helium successively.

We measured the dependence of the superconductivity transition
temperature T_(c) on pressure up to 10 GPa. The sharp drop of
resistivity observed at ambient conditions is maintained even when
pressure was applied, as is shown in Fig. 1. A remarkable linear
behavior is observed up to the full range of 10 GPa and Fig. 2 shows the
experimental data with a fitted linear curve that is expressed by

T_(c) = 39.6 − 1.03P.

The decreasing rate of T_(c), 1.03 K/GPa, is much lower than the value
of 1.6 K/GPa obtained by Lorenz, Meng, and Chu, and the negative slope
of the T_(c) ∼ P relationship is against the theoretical predictions by
Hirsch.[9] On the other hand, the experimental observation suggests that
T_(c) could be increased further if a chemical substitution could
increase the lattice parameter while maintaining the same electronic
structures in equivalence to producing a negative pressure.

The transition range is about 0.5 K between the normal state and
superconducting state, demonstrating the superb quality of the MgB2
material. Even when the material is subject to high pressure, the
transition width changed only slightly. For example, at pressure 7.5
GPa, the transition width is measured to be 0.6 K, giving rise to the
increase of the transition width at a rate less than 0.015 K/GPa. In
addition, before the transition to superconducting occurred, the
material showed a metallic behavior upon cooling with a ratio of
electrical resistivity ρ(300K)/ρ(40K) = 1.93 at 1.5 GPa pressure and it
increased linearly with pressure reaching 2.05 at 9.0 GPa pressure.

Figure 3 shows the dependence of lattice parameters a and c, and the
unit cell volume V on the applied pressure. There is a significant
difference between the contraction rates of the intraplanar periodicity
a and the interplanar periodicity c, the latter reduces about 1.4 times
as fast as the former, signifying that the structure is more
compressible in the c direction than in the a/b direction. A
least-square linear fitting of the experimental data yielded a value for
the bulk modulus B₀ = 172 GPa while a value of B₀ = 174 GPa was obtained
using a least-square fitting of the Murnaghan equation. The volume
compressibility, defined as κ = 1/B₀ = −(1/V₀)dV/dP, can be deduced from
the experimental data and showed a weak dependence on the pressure.

The boron-isotope effect has indicated that the superconductivity in the
MgB2 material is phonon-mediated that can be described within the
framework of the BCS theory.[10] Using the McMillan formula,[11] the
transition temperature T_(c) within the framework of the BCS theory can
be approximated with

$$T_{c} = \frac{(\omega)}{1.2}\exp\left[ { - \frac{1.02(1 + \lambda)}{\lambda - \mu^{\ast}(1 + \lambda)}} \right\rbrack,$$

where ω is the characteristic phonon frequency, μ^(*) is the Coulomb
pseudopotential describing the repulsive interac

Figure 3: Dependence of lattice parameters a and c and the unit cell
volume V on the applied pressure up to 10 GPa. The plots are given in
ratios with the corresponding values at ambient condition. The deduced
bulk modulus of the MgB2 material is B₀ = 172 GPa.

Figure 2: Plot of transition temperature T_(c) versus pressure P. A
linear behavior is observed and T_(c) decreases with increasing pressure
at a rate of about 1.03 K/GPa.

Figure 1: Electrical resistance versus temperature when the sample is
subject to various pressures up to 10 GPa. The transition from the
normal sate to superconducting state takes place within a very narrow
temperature range of about 0.5 K.

tion between electrons, and λ = N(0)⟨I²⟩/M⟨ω²⟩ denotes the
electron-phonon coupling constant, in which N(0) is the electronic
density of states at the Fermi level, ⟨I²⟩ the averaged electron-ion
matrix element, and M the atomic mass.

The value of dT_(c)/dP can be estimated from the McMillan formula. Since
it is difficult to obtain experimentally the value of dln N(0)/dP, we
used a theoretically calculated value, −0.0031/GPa (Ref. [8]) for
dln N(0)/dP and the value of dln ω/dP is obtained from the lattice
dependence on the applied pressure through the equation
ω/ω₀ = (V₀/V)^(γ), where g is the Gruneisen parameter, which is
typically close to unity and we here assumed g = 1 to obtain
dln ω/dP = −dln VdP.

The values of dln VdP is deduced from the x-ray data (Fig. 3) and
therefore we obtained dln ω/dP ≈ 0.00576 GPa⁻¹. Incorporating these
values for dln ω/dP and dln N(0)/dP as well as μ^( *) = 0.1 and λ = 0.7
(Ref. [2]) to the McMillan formula, we can obtain dT_(c)/dP ≈ − 1.22
K/GPa, which is very close to our experimental value of −1.03 K/GPa.
However, we should note here that since the McMillan formula was deduced
for isotropic structures, given the anisotropic nature of the MgB₂
structure, the above analysis has limit in its validity. [12]

On the other hand, the electrical resistivity was found to be well
proportional to temperature, i.e., ρ = C₀ + C₁(P)T, above 220 K as shown
in the inset of Fig. 4. The value of dT_(c)/dP can also be estimated
from an alternative method biasing on the temperature coefficient of
electrical resistivity, C₁(P), that is deduced from the experimental
data. Under the assumption that the electrical resistivity,
$\rho_{\rm ph}$, at high temperature is due to phonon scattering, we can
therefore have $\rho_{\rm ph} \propto T/M\omega_{D}^{2}$, where ω_(D) is
the Debye frequency. Furthermore, if we assume dln ω_(D)/dP ≈ dln ωdP,
we can then estimate the value of dln ω/dP from the pressure dependence
of the temperature coefficient of electrical resistivity given in Fig.
4. The value of dln ω/dP thus obtained is 0.008 GPa⁻¹, from which
dT_(c)/dP ≈ −1.58 K/GPa is obtained. This estimated value is reasonable
in light of the experimental uncertainties and the many approximations
in particular involved in the calculations leading to the result. In
addition, comparing our result with a recently available Raman data,
[13] we obtain that dω/dP ≈ 6.0 cm⁻¹/GPa using the averaged frequency
ω₀ ≈ 752 cm⁻¹. It is in good agreement with the Raman result
(dω/dP ≈ 5.4 cm⁻¹/GPa) for this frequency.

With the availability of more experimental data reported by different
authors, we have noticed that there are discrepancies in the reported
values of the transition width and the decreasing rate of T_(c) with
pressure in particular. We suggest that the discrepancies arise mainly
from the differences in the microstructure of the various materials, as
they have been synthesized under different conditions. This has been
demonstrated clearly by Monteverde _et al._ as they compared the
differences in the superconducting behavior under pressure of several
MgB₂ materials prepared under different conditions. [14] On the other
hand, it should be noted that there has been no significant difference
observed in the onset transition temperature. A most recent study [15]
reported a T_(c) reducing rate of 1.03 K/GPa on pressure, close to the
value we reported here.

In summary, the MgB₂ material synthesized under high pressure and high
temperature shows improved superconducting performance characterized by
(a) sharp transition from normal state to superconducting state, (b)
lower decreasing rate (∼1.03 K/GPa) of transition temperature T_(c) with
increasing pressure, and (c) lower ratios of electrical resistivity
ρ(300 K)/ρ(40 K). These characteristics in transport properties are
preserved under pressure to at least up to 10 GPa and the pressure
effect on T_(c) is well explained within the framework of the classical
BCS theory based on the electron-phonon coupling mechanism.

The authors wish to thank Dr. J. P. Lu of the University of North
Carolina at Chapel Hill for helpful discussions.

## References

* [1] J. Nagamatsu, N. Nakagawa, T. Muranaka, Y. Zenitani, and J.
Akimitsu, Nature (London) **410**, 63 (2001). * [2] J. Kortus, I. I.
Mazin, K. D. Belashchenko, V. P. Antropov, and L. L. Boyer, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **86**, 4656 (2001). * [3] T. Vogt, G. Schneider, J. A. Hriljac,
G. Yang, and J. S. Abell, Phys. Rev. B **63**, 220505 (2001). * [4] K.
Prassides, Y. Iwasa, T. Ito, D. H. Chi, K. Uehara, E. Nishibori, M.
Takata, S. Sakata, Y. Ohishi, O. Shimomura, T. Muranaka, and J.
Akimitsu, Phys. Rev. B **64**, 012509 (2001). * [5] B. Lorenz, R. L.
Meng, and C. W. Chu, Phys. Rev. B **64**, 012507 (2001). * [6] I. Loa
and K. Syassen, cond-mat/0102462 (unpublished).

Figure 4: Ratio of the temperature coefficient of electrical
resistivity, C₁(P)/C₁(0), as a function of pressure. The inset shows the
relationship between electrical resistivity and temperature where a
linear range exists at high temperature.

7] J. D. Jorgensen, D. G. Hinks, and S. Short, Phys. Rev. B **63**,
224522 (2001). * [8] Y. Takano, H. Takeya, H. Fujii, H. Kumakura, T.
Hatano, K. Togano, H. Kito, and H. Ihara, Appl. Phys. Lett. **78**, 2914
(2001). * [9] J. E. Hirsch, cond-mat/0102115 (unpublished). * [10] S. L.
Bud’ko, G. Lapertot, C. Petrovic, C. E. Cunningham, N. Anderson, and P.
C. Canfield, Phys. Rev. Lett. **86**, 1877 (2001). * [11] W. L.
McMillan, Phys. Rev. **167**, 331 (1968). * [12] Y. Wang, T. Plackowski,
and A. Junod, cond-mat/0103181 (unpublished). * [13] K. Kunc, I. Loa, K.
Syassen, R. K. Kremer, and K. Ahn, cond-mat/0105402 (unpublished). *
[14] M. Monteverde, M. Nunez-Regueiro, N. Rogado, K. A. Regan, M. A.
Hayward, T. He, S. M. Loureiro, and R. J. Cava, Science **292**, 75
(2001). * [15] T. Tomota, J. J. Hamlin, J. S. Schilling, D. G. Hinks,
and J. D. Jorgensen, cond-mat/0103538 (unpublished).
