Magnetic ordering in GdBa₂(Cu_(0.94)Fe_(0.06))₃O_(9 − δ) below the
superconducting transition temperature

H. Tang, Z. Q. Qiu, Y.-w. Du, Gang Xiao, C. L. Chien, and J. C. Walker

Department of Physics and Astronomy, Johns Hopkins University,
Baltimore, Maryland 21218

A coexistence of magnetic ordering and superconductivity has been found
in GdBa₂(Cu_(0.94)Fe_(0.06))₃O_(9 − δ) at 4.2 K. The magnetic ordering
is seen in the Fe moments using Mossbauer spectroscopy. The small Fe
percentage was chosen to enable us to probe the crystalline and magnetic
environment of an isolated Fe ion. Possible mechanisms responsible for
the establishment of the magnetic order and its nature are discussed.

Much of the excitement about the new high-temperature superconducting
materials concerns efforts to understand the mechanism responsible for
the superconductivity. The cuprate perovskites with compositions
YBa₂Cu₃O_(9 − δ) (δ=2.1) (referred to as 1-2-3 compounds) are
particularly interesting because the superconductivity is not very much
affected by replacing the rare-earth yttrium with several other
rare-earth elements with large localized moments.[1, 2, 3] This leads to
the view that the superconductivity in this class of materials involves
primarily the CuO layers,[3] and that the electrons involved in the
superconductivity (i.e., the electrons near the Fermi level) have a low
density at the rare-earth and barium sites.

In the work reported here, we have substituted Fe for Cu in 6

Further evidence that Fe substitutes for Cu in our samples comes from
the room-temperature Mossbauer spectra as shown in Fig. 1. The spectrum
consists of two pairs of quadrupole doublets whose parameters are listed
in Table 1. The isomer shifts indicate trivalent iron, and the electric
field gradients are quite large. We associate these large field
gradients with the oxygen deficiencies associated with these compounds.
It is now established that the rare-earth planes of the 1-2-3 compounds
are devoid of oxygen and that the Cu-O planes located between two Ba-O
planes exhibit ordered oxygen vacancies which result in one-dimensional
Cu-O chains along the b axis.[5, 6] A crude calculation shows that the
electric field gradient at the center of a square planar arrangement of
four oxygen is halved if a fifth oxygen is added on the perpendicular
axis at the same distance from the center of the square as the original
four. This leads us to conclude that the larger quadrupole splitting in
our spectrum (Fig. 1) arises from Fe ions between two Ba-O planes since
each has four oxygen nearest neighbors, while the smaller splitting
arises from Fe between a Ba-O and a Gd plane, with five oxygen nearest
neighbors. The Cu-O planes adjacent to the Gd planes are distorted with
the oxygen atoms pulled toward the Gd. As a result the smaller
quadrupole splitting is slightly greater than half the larger splitting.
The greater intensity of the large splitting feature in turn suggests
that the Fe ions favor Cu sites between two Ba-O layers.

Measurements of the temperature dependence of the

Figure 1: Mössbauer spectrum of GdBa₂(Cu_(0.94)Fe_(0.06))₃O_(9 − δ)
taken at room temperature.

resistance of the 6

A Mossbauer spectrum of the same sample used for Fig. 1, but with the
temperature reduced to 4.2 K is shown in Fig. 3. The spectrum is
complex, but shows clear evidence of magnetically split six-line
structures, which indicates that the Fe moments are magnetically ordered
at 4.2 K. This strongly suggests the coexistence of magnetic ordering
and superconductivity in the CuO layers or CuO-Ba-CuO structures,
contrasting with cases of magnetic ordering where the magnetic ions and
the superconducting electrons occupy separate sublattices.

Interestingly, the establishment of magnetic order among the Fe³⁺
moments does not depend on the existence of the magnetic Gd ions as one
might think. We have also observed a similar phenomenon in the
YBa₂(Cu_(0.94)Fe_(0.06))₃O_(9 − δ) compound in which the trivalent Y
ions carry no magnetic moments.8 Thus, the interaction responsible for
the magnetic order among the Fe moments must be confined to the
CuO-Ba-CuO layer assembly or an individual CuO layer. One possible
explanation involves a Ruderman-Kittel-Kasuya-Yosida (RKKY) interaction
between the localized Fe³⁺ moments mediated by conduction electrons
provided that the compound is still sufficiently metallic. Another
possibility is a superexchange interaction between neighboring Fe ions.
This is quite unlikely since for a 6

The spectrum shown in Fig. 3 was not satisfactorily fit by assuming just
two different values of the magnetic hyperfine field. For this reason
the solid line in Fig. 3 should be considered only as a visual guide.
One result that can be safely extracted is that there is a large
distribution in the magnitude of the hyperfine field with its upper
bound around 510 kOe. This large upper bound is characteristic of many
iron oxides, which in turn may imply that the magnetic ordering is
antiferromagnetic to a certain extent. The structure of the spectrum
indicates that the magnetic order is quite complicated and a spin

Figure 2: Temperature dependence of normalized electrical resistance of
Gd-Ba-Cu-O with 6

glass type of ordering is a strong possibility. In addition to the large
distribution in hyperfine field, the large linewidths may result from a
random distribution in the angle between the hyperfine field and the
electric field gradient. A more quantitative study of the Mossbauer
spectra of samples with Fe doping between 0.3

The result of the measurement of the magnetization of the sample is
shown in Fig. 4. These results are quite different from the pure 1-2-3
compounds for even from the YBa₂(Cu_(0.94)Fe_(0.06))₃O_(9 − δ)
compound]. Here we have no diamagnetism associated with the
superconducting state. Nevertheless, it can be seen that both the
zero-field cooled and the field cooled susceptibility curves start to
deviate from a paramagnetic form when the temperature reaches about 39
K. At this point the curves actually begin to deviate significantly from
each other. This superconducting transition temperature from the
susceptibility measurements approximately agrees with the midpoint T_(c)
determined from the resistance versus temperature measurement. At 39 K
superconductivity sets in and contributes a Meissner effect, which is
superimposed on a paramagnetic effect arising primarily from the large
Gd³⁺ moments. The unusual dip we interpret as a result of the
competition between these two effects. At lower temperature the
paramagnetic effect dominates the Meissner effect. The observed
hysteresis must be a manifestation of the Meissner effect so that the
difference between the zero-field cooled and field cooled
magnetizations, which is shown in the inset of Fig. 4, gives a measure
of the strength of the Meissner effect. This weak Meissner effect is
characteristic of Fe-doped 1-2-3 compounds.[4]

Unfortunately, the magnetization curve provides no information about the
onset of magnetic order of the Fe moments. We feel that the Gd moments
dominate the paramagnetic effects and completely mask the order in the
Fe moments. The small Meissner effect of this compound may suggest that
superconductivity is destroyed in the vicinity of Fe ions, when magnetic
order develops at low temperature. Gd ions in this region may interact
weakly with the Fe ions, but in any case are not fully shielded from an
external field by the perfect Meissner effect, which obtains for pure
GdBa₂Cu₃O_(9 − δ). We have evidence that interactions between Fe and Gd
ions may occur because an equivalent amount of Fe substitution for Cu in
the Y- and Gd-based 1-2-3 compounds produces very different suppression
of T_(c). A substitution of 6

In conclusion, we have observed the coexistence of superconductivity and
magnetic order in GdBa₂(Cu_(0.94)Fe_(0.06))₃O_(9 − δ) at 4.2 K. The new
thing about this result is that both the magnetic ordering and the
superconductivity seem to involve the CuO-Ba-CuO layers. The nature of
the magnetic order is not clear but a spin-glass state or weak
antiferromagnetic state is possible.

The authors wish to thank Dr. K. Moorjani for his helpful discussions.
This work has been supported in part by the National Science Foundation,
Grant No. DMR-8500889.

## References

* [1] R. J. Cava, B. Batlogg, R. B. van Dover, D. W. Murphy, S.
Sunshine, T. Siegrist, J. P. Remeika, E. A. Rietman, S. Zahurak, and G.
P. Espinosa, Phys. Rev. Lett. **58**, 1676 (1987). * [2] R. M. Hazen, L.
W. Finger, R. J. Angel, C. T. Prewitt, H. K. Mao, C. G. Haddicos, P. H.
Hor, R. L. Meng, and C. W. Chu, Phys. Rev. B **35**, 7238 (1987). * [3]
P. H. Hor, R. L. Meng, Y. A. Wang, L. Gao, Z. J. Huang, J. Bechtold, K.
Forster, and C. W. Chu, Phys. Rev. Lett. **58**, 1891 (1987). * [4] Gang
Xiao, F. H. Streitz, A. Garvin, Y. W. Du, and C. L. Chien, Phys. Rev. B
**35**, 8782 (1987). * [5] F. Beech, S. Miraglia, A. Santoro, and R. S.
Roth, Phys. Rev. B **35**, 8778 (1987). * [6] Ivan K. Schuller, D. G.
Hinks, M. A. Beno, D. W. Capone II, L. Soderholm, J.-P. Locquet, Y.
Brugnseraede, C. U. Segre, and K. Zhang, Solid State Commun. (to be
published). * [7] H. Geballe, B. T. Matthias, E. Corenzwits, and G. W.
Hull, Jr., Phys. Rev. Lett. **8**, 313 (1962). * [8] Z. Q. Qiu _et al._,
J. Magn. Magn. Mater. (to be published). * [9] J. Z. Sun, D. J. Webb, M.
Naito, K. Char, M. R. Bash, J. W. P. Hsu, A. D. Kent, D. B. Mitzi, B.
Oh, M. R. Beasley, T. H. Geballe, R. H. Hammond, and A. Kapitulnik,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **58**, 1574 (1987).

Figure 4: Temperature dependence of magnetization of
GdBa₂(Cu_(0.94)Fe_(0.06))₃O_(9 − δ) (taken at 9.5 Oe) for zero-field
cooled and field cooled processes. The inset shows the difference of the
magnetizations for the two processes.
