Occurrence of superconductivity in Ca- and Sr-doped
PrSr₂Cu_(2.7)Mo_(0.3)O_(7 − δ)

H. L. Tsay and Y. C. Chen

Department of Electrical Engineering, National Sun Yat-Sen University,
Kaohsiung, Taiwan 80424, Republic of China

F. L. Juang W. M. Wang

Department of Physics, National Sun Yat-Sen University, Kaohsiung,
Taiwan 80424, Republic of China

10 October 1995

###### Abstract

Polycrystalline samples of (Pr1_(−x)_M_(x)_)Sr₂Cu_(2.7)Mo_(0.3)O_(7 − δ)
(M=Ca and Sr; 0≈_x_ = 0.3;_d_ ∼0.1) with tetragonal perovskitelike
structure were synthesized and investigated by powder x-ray-diffraction,
electrical-resistivity, magnetic-susceptibility, and specific-heat
measurements. Superconductivity can be achieved by partially
substituting Ca or Sr for Pr in semiconducting
PrSr₂Cu_(2.7)Mo_(0.3)O_(7 − δ). The T_(c) (midpoint) is about 17 K with
x = 0.1 for both Ca- and Sr-doped systems. The observation of the
magnetic shielding effect with powder samples confirms the bulk-nature
superconductivity. In addition, the reduced effective magnetic moment
μ_(eff) (μ_(β)/Pr mol) derived from the Curie-Weiss-like magnetic
susceptibility of PrSr₂Cu_(2.7)Mo_(0.3)O_(7 − δ) is found to increase
with Ca or Sr doping, while the linear term coefficient γ (mJ/Pr mol K2)
of specific heat is almost independent of the doping. These results are
discussed in conjunction with hole-filling and hybridization effects for
the quenching of superconductivity in PrSr₂Cu_(2.7)Mo_(0.3)O_(7 − δ) and
compared with those in PrBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ).

The absence of superconductivity and anomalous magnetic properties of
PrBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) have received much attention since this compound was
first synthesized. PrBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) forms the same orthorhombic
structure as that of high-T_(c) YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) (Y-123), but it is
curiously not superconducting.1 In order to shed light on the basic
mechanism of oxide high-T_(c) superconductivity, the
(Y_(1 − x−)Pr_(x))Ba₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) system has become one of the most
studied subtopics in the field of high-temperature superconductivity for
the past several years. Plenty of experiments and interpretation which
focused on the depression of T_(c) in (Y_(1 − x)Pr_(x))Ba₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ)
have been conducted and proposed.2⁻4 Nevertheless, there are still
unsolved questions to date. On the other hand, Neumeier _et al._5 have
demonstrated the variation of T_(c) in the
(Y_(1 − x−)Y_(α)Sr_(α)Pr_(α))Ba₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) system, suggesting that the
hole-filling and pair-breaking mechanisms dominate separately in the
suppression of superconductivity in Pr-doped 123 system. In our earlier
studies,6 the single-phase bulk samples (Pr1_(−x)Ca_(x))Ba₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ)
(_x_ ≤ 0.3) are all semiconducting. At higher doping level (_x_ ∼ 0.5),
where the bulk sample is multiphase and metastable, thin films of nearly
single phase can be obtained and become superconducting.7^(,)8 In those
papers, the doping of the same valent-state cation Sr fails to make
PrBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) superconducting. The reason for the difference between
Ca and Sr doping is not yet clear.

Recently, the Sr-based 123 structure has been stabilized by partially
substituting the Mo-O for Cu-O chains.9 Subsequently, single-phase
RSr₂Cu_(2.7)Mo_(0.3)O_(7 − δ) (R=rare earths) have been successfully
synthesized and found to have a T_(c) around 30 K, except
PrSr₂Cu_(2.7)Mo_(0.3)O_(7 − δ), which is as a semiconductor as
PrBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ).10 In our preliminary studies on the
(Y_(1 − x)Pr_(x))Sr₂Cu_(2.7)Mo_(0.3)O_(7 − δ) (0≈_x_ ≤ 1; δ∼ 0.1)
system,11^(,)12 the critical concentration x_(α)∼0.85 required to
suppress the T_(c) to zero is larger than x_(α)∼0.55 in
(Y_(1 − x)Pr_(x))Ba₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ); the normal state resistivity
(ρ_(100 K)) of PrSr₂Cu_(2.7)Mo_(0.3)O_(7 − δ) is about three orders of
magnitude smaller than that of PrBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ); and no indication of
magnetic ordering transition was observed in
PrSr₂Cu_(2.7)Mo_(0.3)O_(7 − δ) by specific-heat measurement down to 0.6
K in contrast to the antiferromagnetic transition at 17 K in
PrBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ). These provide another chance to study the occurrence
of superconductivity in Ca- and Sr-doped Pr-based 123 cuprates. In this
paper, we present the electrical, magnetic, and thermal results for Ca-
and Sr-doped PrSr₂Cu_(2.7)Mo_(0.3)O_(7 − δ) and compare these results
with those in PrBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ).

All polycrystalline samples
(Pr1_(−x)_M_(x)_)Sr₂Cu_(2.7)Mo_(0.3)O_(7 − δ) (M=Ca or Sr and x = 0,
0.05, 0.1, 0.15, 0.2, 0.25, 0.3) were prepared by the
solid-state-reaction method under identical condition. Sample
preparation and characterization were described elsewhere.12
Electrical-resistivity measurements were performed by the standard
four-probe method. Magnetic susceptibility was measured by using a
superconducting quantum interference device (SQUID) magnetometer.
Low-temperature specific heat was measured with a ³He thermal relaxation
calorimeter and the heat-pulse technique13 was used. The samples were
attached to a sapphire chip (addenda), which has two separated silicon
films deposited on it to serve as the heater and thermometer,
respectively. The Si-film thermometer was calibrated against a
precalibrated germanium thermometer. The chip was then connected to a
constant-temperature copper block with a weak thermal link, thermal
conductance κ of which was measured at each temperature by applying a
small power P= κ (T sample−T block) to the chip. When the power was
turned off, the sample temperature relaxed exponentially to the block
temperature with a time constant τ= C/κ. Thus the total heat capacity C
was obtained.

Figure 1 shows room-temperature powder x-ray-diffraction patterns for
(Pr1_(−x)_M_(x)_)Sr₂Cu_(2.7)Mo_(0.3)O_(7 − δ) with

M=Ca and Sr; x = 0, 0.1, and 0.2. In contrast to the Ca-doped sample, in
which the impurities prevail as x > 0.1, the Sr-doped samples retain the
structure even at x = 0.2. Little variation of lattice parameter a for
P4/mmm phase in the Ca-doping case suggests that most of doped Ca atoms
substitute for Pr atoms in the tetragonal 123 structure. Moreover, the
increase in lattice constants a and c in the Sr-doping system is
consistent with the fact that the excess Sr atoms substitute for Pr
atoms.

Electrical resistivity as a function of temperature for
(Pr_(1 − x)M_(x))Sr₂Cu_(2.7)Mo_(0.3)O_(7 − δ) for M =Ca and Sr with x =
0, 0.1 and 0.2 is shown in Fig. 2. T_(c) (midpoint=17 and 21 K with x =
0.1 and 0.2 for M = Ca and Sr, respectively. The absence of
superconductivity in the sample
PrSr(9_(x)Ca_(0.1))₂Cu_(2.7)Mo_(0.3)O_(7 − δ) (not shown) may rule out
the possibility that the superconductivity in
(Pr_(1 − x)Ca_(x))Sr₂Cu_(2.7)Mo_(0.3)O_(7 − δ) is caused by Ca
substitution for Sr. The low temperature χ-T curve in the inset
demonstrates the bulk superconductivity for
(Pr_(0.9)Ca_(0.1))Sr₂Cu_(2.7)Mo_(0.3)O_(7 − δ). This is different from
that in (Pr_(1 − x)Ca_(x))Ba₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) system, where the
superconductivity can be achieved only in the thin films but not in the
bulk samples. [7, 8] It is worth mentioning that the superconductivity
of (Pr_(1 − x)Ca_(x))Ba₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) can only be observed in
orthorhombic films but not in the tetragonal ones. [8] However, the
superconducting (Pr_(1 − x)Ca_(x))Sr₂Cu_(2.7)Mo_(0.3)O_(7 − δ) and
(Pr_(1 − x)Sr_(x))Sr₂Cu_(2.7)Mo_(0.3)O_(7 − δ) bulk samples investigated
here are all tetragonal. The observation of superconductivity in both Ca
and Sr doping on PrSr₂Cu_(2.7)Mo_(0.3)O_(7 − δ) is in contrast to that
in PrBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ), where a semiconducting behavior was observed in
Sr-doped film. [8] The difference between Ca- and Sr-doped
PrBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) has been argued [8] to be consistent with the ionic
size dependence of T_(c) observed in the
(R_(1 − x)Pr_(x))Ba₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) systems, [14, 15] and it implies that
the hybridization between Pr and CuO₂ plane is important in the
quenching of superconductivity in PrBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ). However, this
ionic-size effect cannot successfully explain why the T_(c) in the
different size Ca- and Sr-doped PrSr₂Cu_(2.7)Mo_(0.3)O_(7 − δ) is about
the same with the same doping level. Furthermore, the superconductivity
in (Pr_(1 − x)M_(x)) Sr₂Cu_(2.7)Mo_(0.3)O_(7 − δ) (M=Ca and Sr) is
observed at much lower doping level with x ∼ 0.1 than that in
(Pr_(1 − x)Ca_(x))Ba₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) with x ∼ 0.5. Therefore, if the
valence of Pr ions in both systems is the same, the hole-filling picture
cannot be applied to these cases either. Nevertheless, the T_(c) (∼17 K)
of (Pr_(0.6)Ca_(0.1))Sr₂Cu_(2.7)Mo_(0.3)O_(7 − δ) is much higher than
T_(c) ∼ 0 K of (Pr_(0.9)Y_(0.1))Sr₂Cu_(2.7)Mo_(0.3)O_(7 − δ). This
illustrates that the divalent Ca must do something different from the
trivalent Y in the occurrence of superconductivity. Most recently,
Blackstead and Dow [16] proposed that the Ba-site Pr suppresses
superconductivity in PrBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) based on the mixing of Pr and Ba
using the criterion of ionic size effect. However, the ionic size of
Sr²⁺ is closer to Pr³⁺ than Ba²⁺ is, thus Sr may get more mixing with
Pr. Therefore PrSr₂Cu_(2.7)Mo_(0.3)O_(7 − δ) would have been more
insulating than PrBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ). Nevertheless, the room

Figure 2: Electrical resistivities as a function of temperature for
(Pr_(1 − x)M_(x))Sr₂Cu_(2.7)Mo_(0.3)O_(7 − δ) with M = Ca (upper) and Sr
(lower). Inset shows the low-temperature ac susceptibility for
(Pr_(0.5)Ca_(0.1))Sr₂Cu_(2.7)Mo_(0.3)O_(7 − δ).

Figure 1: Room-temperature powder x-ray-diffraction patterns for
(Pr_(1 − x)M_(x))Sr₂Cu_(2.7)Mo_(0.3)O_(7 − δ) with M = Ca and Sr; x = 0,
0.1, and 0.2. Miller indices are indicated using space group P4/mmm.
Impurity peaks are pointed by arrows.

temperature resistivity of the former is about three orders of magnitude
smaller than that of the latter. This fact appears to be inconsistent
with their proposal. In particular, superconductivity can be achieved
with lower Ca doping in PrSr₂Cu_(2.7)Mo_(0.3)O_(7 − δ) than in
PrBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ). Thus it is difficult to claim that the suppression of
T_(c) is induced by Ba/Sr-site Pr in these Pr-based compounds. An
alternative explanation is to consider the hybridization which takes
place between Pr and CuO₂ planes.[17, 18] Under this picture,
hybridization will localize the mobile holes and eventually destroy
superconductivity. The strength of this hybridization in
PrBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) can be argued to be weakened by substituting Sr for Ba
which will result in an increase in Pr-O(3) bond length.[19] Therefore,
the hybridization in the Sr-based 123 is weaker than that in the
Ba-based 123. This weakening in hybridization can be regarded as a
reason why less Ca or Sr doping is needed to delocalize the trapped
holes and restore the superconductivity in the
PrSr₂Cu_(2.7)Mo_(0.3)O_(7 − δ) case (see Table 1).

Figure 3 shows the inverse magnetic susceptibility as a function of
temperature for PrSr₂Cu_(2.7)Mo_(0.3)O_(7 − δ),
(Pr_(0.9)Ca_(0.1))Sr₂Cu_(2.7)Mo_(0.3)O_(7 − δ), and
(Pr_(0.9)Sr_(0.1))Sr₂Cu_(2.7)Mo_(0.3)O_(7 − δ). The effective magnetic
moment $\mu_{\rm eff}$ for the Pr ions derived from the Curie-Weiss
susceptibility is 3.05, 3.52, and 3.52 $\mu_{\rm g}$/Pr mol,
respectively. The shortness in the $\mu_{\rm eff}$ for Pr ions with
respect to that for free Pr³⁺ ions (3.58 μ_(B)) has been argued to be
the indication of the electronic interaction between Pr and CuO₂ planes.
This electronic interaction results in a crystalline field effect (CFE)
and a reduction of effective magnetic moment.[20] The electronic
interaction (hybridization) between Pr and CuO₂ planes in the Sr-based
system is further weakened by Ca and Sr doping. Therefore, the increase
of the $\mu_{\rm eff}$ for Pr ions can be ascribed to the weakening of
CFE. However, it should be noted that value for $\mu_{\rm eff}$(μ_(B)/Pr
mol) is basically kept constant through
(Y${}_{1-\rm g}$Pr${}_{\rm t}$)Ba₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) series[21] even in the
superconducting samples. In the Ca- or Sr-doping cases shown here, these
doped divalent ions will weaken the interaction between Pr and CuO₂
planes. It seems that the weakening of this interaction will resume the
effective moment of Pr³⁺ ions. However, this viewpoint needs more data
and analyses.

Figure 4 shows the low-temperature specific heat for
PrSr₂Cu_(2.7)Mo_(0.3)O_(7 − δ),
(Pr_(0.5)Ca_(0.1))Sr₂Cu_(2.7)Mo_(0.3)O_(7 − δ) and
(Pr_(0.9)Sr_(0.1))Sr₂Cu_(2.7)Mo_(0.3)O_(7 − δ). The data are fitted to
the equation C = A/T²  + γT + B T³ in the temperature range of 0.6−2.5
K, where the first term is the contribution from a nuclear Schottky
anomaly and the third term is the sum of the lattice and
three-dimensional magnetic contributions. The fitting values for linear
term coefficient γ are 212, 227, and 221 mJ/Pr mol K² for the above
three compounds, respectively. Even though the γ value depends on the
various fitting procedures or fitting ranges by different groups,[2, 12,
22] the large value of γ has been commonly recognized. This little
dependence of γ value on Ca and Sr doping is similar to that observed in
(Y_(1 − x)Pr_(x))Ba₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ).[22] It is emphasized that the
heavy-fermion-like γ value for these Pr-based cuprates does not depend
on whether samples are superconducting or insulating. This implies that
the large γ value may not be

Figure 3: Inverse magnetic susceptibility as a function of temperature
for (Pr_(1 − x)M_(x))Sr₂Cu_(2.7)Mo_(0.3)O_(7 − δ) with M =Ca and Sr;
x = 0 and 0.1 in the temperature range of 30–300 K.

closely related to the suppression of superconductivity in these
Pr-based cuprates. The origin of large γ value in these Pr-based
compounds needs further clarification.

In summary, superconductivity can be achieved in 10 at.

This work was supported by the National Science Council of Republic of
China, under Contract No. NSC 84-0212-M110-05.

## References

* [1] L. Soderholm, K. Zhang, D. G. Hinks, M. A. Beno, J. D. Jorgensen,
C. U. Segre, and I. K. Schuller, Nature (London) **328**, 604 (1987). *
[2] A. Kebede, C. S. Jee, J. Schwegler, J. W. Crow, T. Mihalism, G. H.
Myer, R. E. Salomon, P. Schlottmann, M. V. Kuric, S. H. Bloom, and R. P.
Guertin, Phys. Rev. B **40**, 4453 (1989). * [3] H. D. Yang, M. W. Lin,
C. K. Chiou, and W. H. Lee, Phys. Rev. B **46**, 1176 (1992). * [4] H.
B. Radousky, Mater. Res. Bull. **7**, 1917 (1992). * [5] J. J. Neumeier,
T. Bjornholm, M. B. Maple, and Ivan K. Schuller, Phys. Rev. B **63**,
2516 (1989). * [6] H. D. Yang, M. W. Lin, C. H. Luo, H. L. Tsay, and T.
F. Young, Physica C **203**, 320 (1992). * [7] David P. Norton, D. H.
Lowndes, B. C. Sales, J. D. Budai, B. C. Chakoumakos, and H. R.
Kerchner, Phys. Rev. Lett. **66**, 1537 (1991). * [8] David P. Norton,
D. H. Lowndes, B. C. Sales, J. D. Budai, E. C. Jones, and B. C.
Chakoumakos, Phys. Rev. B **49**, 4182 (1994). * [9] T. Den and T.
Kobayashi, Physica C **196**, 141 (1992). * [10] Q. Xiong, Y. Y. Xue, J.
W. Chu, Y. Y. Sun, Y. Q. Wang, P. H. Hor, and C. W. Chu, Phys. Rev. B
**47**, 11 337 (1993). * [11] H. L. Tsay, I. C. Chen, Y. C. Chen, and H.
D. Yang, Physica C **235-240**, 819 (1994). * [12] H. D. Yang, H. L.
Tsay, C. R. Shih, and Y. C. Chen, Phys. Rev. B **51**, 8543 (1995). *
[13] R. Bachmann, F. J. Disalvo, T. H. Geballe, R. L. Greene, R. E.
Howard, C. N. King, H. C. Kirsch, K. N. Lee, R. E. Schwall, H. U.
Thomasand, and R. B. Zuback, Rev. Sci. Instrum. **43**, 205 (1972). *
[14] H. D. Yang, P. F. Chen, C. R. Hsu, C. W. Lee, C. L. Li, and C. C.
Peng, Phys. Rev. B **43**, 10 568 (1991). * [15] Yunhui Xu and Weiyan
Guan, Phys. Rev. B **45**, 3176 (1992). * [16] H. A. Blackstead and J.
D. Dow, Phys. Rev. B **51**, 11 830 (1995). * [17] J. Fink, N. Nucker,
H. Rombery, M. Alexander, M. B. Maple, J. J. Neumeier, and J. W. Allen,
Phys. Rev. B **42**, 4823 (1990). * [18] R. Fehrenbacher and T. M. Rice,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **70**, 3471 (1993). * [19] C. C. Lai, T. J. Lee, H. K.
Fun, H. C. Ku, and J. C. Ho, Phys. Rev. B **50**, 4029 (1994). * [20] G.
Hilscher, E. Holland-Moritz, T. Holubar, H. -D. Jostamdt, V. Nakvasil,
G. Schaudy, U. Walter, and G. Fillion, Phys. Rev. B **49**, 535
(1994). * [21] Y. Dalichaouch, M. S. Torikachvili, E. A. Early, B. W.
Lee, C. L. Seaman, K. N. Yang, H. Zhou, and M. B. Maple, Solid State
Commun. **65**, 1001 (1988). * [22] N. E. Philips, R. A. Fisher, R.
Caspary, A. Amato, H. B. Radousky, J. L. Peng, L. Zhang, and R. N.
Shelton, Phys. Rev. B **43**, 11 488 (1991).
