# Pressure-induced irreversible evolution of superconductivity in PdBi₂

Ying Zhou,^(1, 2) Xuliang Chen,¹ Chao An,³ Yonghui Zhou,¹ Langsheng
Ling,¹ Jiyong Yang,¹ Chunhua Chen,^(1, 2) Lili Zhang,⁴ Mingliang
Tian,^(1, 5) Zhitao Zhang,^(1,)1 and Zhaorong Yang^(1, 5,)1

¹Anhui Province Key Laboratory of Condensed Matter Physics at Extreme
Conditions, High Magnetic Field Laboratory, Chinese Academy of Sciences,
Hefei 230031, China

²University of Science and Technology of China, Hefei 230026, China

³Institute of Physical Science and Information Technology, Anhui
University, Hefei 230601, China

⁴Shanghai Institute of Applied Physics, Chinese Academy of Sciences,
Shanghai 201204, China

⁵Collaborative Innovation Center of Advanced Microstructures, Nanjing
210093, China

Footnote 1: ztzhang@hmf.ac.cn

###### Abstract

Both α-PdBi₂ and β-PdBi₂ are superconductors with topological nontrivial
signs. Here we report that the α-PdBi₂ superconductor is converted by
pressure into the β-phase superconducting polymorph, with the
superconductivity being further enhanced upon decompression. Through
high-pressure resistance and synchrotron x-ray-diffraction experiments,
we show that the α phase transforms into the β phase at P_(c) ∼ 8 GPa,
above which the superconductivity is robust up to the maximum pressure
investigated in this work. More interestingly, when the applied pressure
is gradually released from 42.9 down to 1.7 GPa, the T_(c) increases
monotonously from 2.5 to 4.0 K. We argue that the observed unusual
evolution of superconductivity can be explained by combination of
pressure-manipulated crystal quality and the pressure dependence of
T_(c) of the β-PdBi₂ superconductor.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.99.054501

## I Introduction

The PdBi₂ superconductors, including α-PdBi₂ and β-PdBi₂, have attracted
much recent interest mainly because of the observations of topologically
protected surface states, which makes them prospective candidates to
realize topological superconductivity [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10,
11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17]. The β-PdBi₂ crystallizes in a layered
tetragonal CuZr₂-type structure (I4/mmn) with superconducting transition
T_(c) ranging from 4.25 to 5.4 K, depending on the quality of the
crystal sample [1, 2, 14]. The mechanism of the superconductivity is
still under hot debate so far, concerning multigap [2, 3] or single-gap
[4, 7, 8, 9] nature of the superconductivity, and whether the
topological surface state is important to superconductivity of the
β-PdBi₂[5, 10, 11] or not [7, 8, 9]. On the other hand, the α-PdBi₂
which forms a layered monoclinic (C2/m) structure is superconducting
below 1.7 K [15, 16, 17]. More recently, Rashba surface states near
Fermi level were theoretically predicted and experimentally identified
via angle-resolved photoemission spectroscopy, suggesting that the
Majorana fermion could be realized in the α-PdBi₂ by utilizing the
Rashba states [15, 16].

High pressure is a powerful method to investigate superconductivity,
since it can effectively tune the lattice structure and electronic state
[18, 19]. Particularly, pressure is often used to explore for new
superconductors from their nonsuperconducting parent compounds, such as
the high-temperature superconductors [20, 21], sulfur hydrides [22, 23],
and topological insulators [24, 25]. For the PdBi₂ superconductors, to
our knowledge, there were only two reports published about the pressure
effect on the superconductivity in β-PdBi₂ and no relevant report on
α-PdBi₂[6, 14]. It was reported that the T_(c) of the β-PdBi₂ decreases
linearly with increasing pressure, but the highest measured pressure is
limited to 2.4 GPa [6, 14].

In this paper, we investigated the pressure effect on the
superconductivity in α-PdBi₂. We found that the superconductivity is
initially favored by pressure and then becomes almost pressure
independent until a critical pressure of P_(c) ∼ 8 GPa, where a
structural transition from monoclinic α phase to tetragonal β phase is
detected. Above P_(c), the superconductivity in β-PdBi₂ is much more
robust than expectation based on a linear extrapolation of the data
below 2.4 GPa in previous reports [6, 14]. Upon decompression from 42.9
GPa, the β phase is reserved to ambient condition but the T_(c) displays
unusual irreversible pressure dependence.

## II Methods

Single crystals of α-PdBi₂ were synthesized by flux method [17].
Stoichiometric mixture of Pd powder (99.999

High-pressure resistance measurements were performed in a nonmagnetic
Be-Cu diamond-anvil cell. Diamond anvils of 300-μm culets and a T301
stainless-steel gasket covered with a mixture of epoxy and fine cubic
boron nitride powder were used for high-pressure transport measurements.
A single crystal with dimension of 100 x 60 x 10 μm³ was loaded into the
cell together with powdered NaCl powder as the pressure-transmitting
medium. The cell was then put into an in-house multifunctional physical
properties measurement system (T : 1.8 ∼ 300 K; H : 0 ∼ ±9 T). The
resistance R was collected using the standard four-probe method via
sweeping temperature.

High-pressure angle-dispersive synchrotron XRD experiments were
performed with crushed PdBi₂ single crystals in a Mao-Bell cell at room
temperature at the beamline BL15U1 of Shanghai Synchrotron Radiation
Facility (SSRF). The x-ray wavelength is 0.6199 A and neon gas was used
as transmitting medium. The dioptas[26] and rietica[27] programs were
used for image integrations and XRD profile Rietveld refinements,
respectively. Pressure was applied at room temperature and calibrated by
using the ruby fluorescence shift for all experiments[28].

## III Results and Discussion

In Fig. 1, we show the schematic crystal structures for α-PdBi₂ and
β-PdBi₂, respectively, for the ease of understanding the results below.
As one can see, the layers of monoclinic α-PdBi₂ are constructed with
six-coordinated PdBi₆ building blocks, while tetragonal β-PdBi₂ consists
of layers of eight-coordinated PdBi₈ building blocks. Noteworthy, the
lattice volume _V/Z_ (unit-cell volume per chemical

Figure 1: (a) Schematic crystal structure of monoclinic α-PdBi₂, with
space group of C2/m. (b) Schematic crystal structure of tetragonal
β-PdBi₂, with space group of I4/mmm.

Figure 2: (a) Temperature dependence of resistivity ρ(T) for an α-PdBi₂
single-crystal sample. Inset: Zoom-in of the data near superconducting
transition temperature. (b) ρ(T) curves near superconducting transition
measured in different magnetic fields up to 500 Oe, which is applied
along the a axis. (c) Phase diagram of upper critical field
μ₀H_(c2)(T_(c)) versus temperature, where T_(c) was defined as the
temperature with 90

formula) of α-PdBi₂, 75.58 A³, is slightly larger by ∼3

Figure 2(a) displays the temperature dependence of resistivity ρ(T) for
an α-PdBi₂ single-crystal sample. As shown in the inset, a sharp
superconducting resistive transition (ΔT_(c) ∼ 0.17 K) is observed at an
onset transition temperature of $T_{c}\,^{\rm onset}\sim 1.6$ K, which
is close to the reported 1.7 K by other groups [16,17]. As for the
normal state, the ρ(T) shows a metallic behavior with a nearly linear
temperature dependence in a large range from 300 down to 20 K, in
agreement with previous reports [16,17]. The linear temperature
dependence of resistivity was usually observed in unconventional
superconductors, such as cuprates, iron pnictides, or heavy-fermion
metals, and could be correlated with spin fluctuations near quantum
criticality [29, 30, 31]. Here in the nonmagnetic compound α-PdBi₂, the
origin of the linear behavior of resistivity is unclear. The value of
residual resistivity ratio (27.1) is larger than that in previous
reports [16,17], indicative of high quality of our sample.

Figure 2(b) displays the temperature dependence of resistivity for the
α-PdBi₂ in different magnetic fields up to 500 Oe. Clearly, the
superconducting transition was gradually suppressed with increasing
magnetic field. In Fig. 2(c), we show the phase diagram of upper
critical field μ₀H_(c2)(T) against temperature. By fitting the data to
the Werthamer-Helfand-Hohenberg (WHH) model [32], the zero-temperature
upper critical field μ₀H_(c2)(0) of 290 Oe is obtained. In Figs. 2(d)
and 2(e), we show the results of magnetization measurements on an
α-PdBi₂ single-crystal sample. As one can see from Fig. 2(d), the
magnetization undergoes a sharp superconducting transition at 1.6 K,
consistent with the resistivity measurements. Figure 2(e) evidences that
the α-PdBi₂ superconductor is a type II superconductor, with the lower
critical field of μ₀H_(c1) = 40 Oe nd the upper critical field of
μ₀H_(c2) = 260 Oe, which is roughly equal to that obtained by WHH
fitting of the resistivity data.

High-pressure resistance measurements up to 42.9 GPa were performed on
an α-PdBi₂ single-crystal sample. In Figs. 3(a)-3(e), we show the
recorded R(T) curves at representative pressures both in compression and
decompression processes, and summarize the $T_{c}\,^{\rm onset}$ versus
pressure with a phase diagram in Fig. 3(f). As one can see in Fig. 3(a),
the metallic conduction behavior in the normal state persists upon
compression, with the entire R(T) curve gradually upshifted. At the
beginning pressure of 1.3 GPa, a small drop of resistance is observed at
∼2.4 K as seen from the inset of Fig. 3(b), although the α-PdBi₂ at
ambient pressure is

Figure 3: (a) Temperature dependence of resistance R(T) measured at
different pressures in the compression process. (b), (c) Low-temperature
zoom-ins of panel (a); the inset of (b) depicts the definition of
$T_{c}\,^{\rm onset}$ by an arrow. (d) R(T) curves in the decompression
process. (e) Low-temperature zoom-in of panel (d). (f)
Pressure-temperature phase diagram of the sample. The black arrows
indicate the compression and decompression processes. For comparison,
the pressure dependence of T_(c) for pure β-PdBi₂ from G. Pristáš _et
al._[14] and Zhao _et al._[6] are also shown in the phase diagram.

superconducting below 1.6 K. With further increasing pressure, the drop
of resistance becomes more and more pronounced, which indicates that the
superconductivity is favored under pressure. Zero resistance appears at
3.3 GPa and T_(c) onset is almost pressure independent below a critical
pressure point of P_(c) ∼ 8.1 GPa. Above P_(c), T_(c) onset starts to
increase until approaching a maximum of 2.8 K at 17.1 GPa and then
gradually gets suppressed by pressure. In the decompression process, the
metallic conduction behavior is not much changed, but unlike in the
compression, the evolution of the R(T) curve against pressure is not
monotonous anymore. More surprisingly, the T_(c)^(onset) increases
progressively up to 4.0 K with releasing pressure down to 1.7 GPa,
rather than showing a reversible behavior; see Figs. 3(e) and 3(f).

In order to trace the pressure evolution of the upper critical field
μ₀H_(c2)(T), we measured the R(T) curve under different magnetic fields
at selected pressures of 3.3, 17.1, and 42.8 GPa. We present the
recorded R(T) curves in Figs. 4(a)-4(c) and show the summary of upper
critical-field values in Fig. 4(d), together with the data for ambient
pressure. At all pressures, the superconductivity is gradually
suppressed with increasing magnetic field. Based on the WHH model
fitting, the obtained μ₀H_(c2)(0) are 2.0 kOe for 3.3 GPa, 6.2 kOe for
17.1 GPa, and 5.6 kOe for 42.8 GPa, respectively, which are dramatically
enhanced compared with the 290.3 Oe at ambient pressure [see the red
dashed line in Fig. 4(d)]. All the values are much lower than the Pauli
limiting field of H_(P)(0) = 1.84T_(c)[33, 34], suggesting that the
dominant pair-breaking mechanism is not of Pauli type.

Motivated by the abnormally irreversible pressure dependence of T_(c),
we investigated the evolution of the lattice structure by performing
angle-dispersive synchrotron XRD experiments on ground crystals of
α-PdBi₂ under pressures up to 40.4 GPa. Representative XRD patterns are
displayed in Fig. 5(a) and typical standard Rietveld refinements at 2.3
and 40.4 GPa are displayed in Fig. 5(b). Starting at 2.3 GPa,

Figure 4: Superconducting transition of the sample measured in magnetic
fields H⊥hc plane for pressures of (a) 3.3 GPa, (b) 17.1 GPa, and (c)
42.8 GPa. (d) Phase diagram of upper critical field H_(c2)(T) versus
temperature for the different pressures. The solid lines represent the
fitting lines based on the WHH model. Here, T_(c) in the phase diagram
was defined as the temperature with 90

Figure 5: (a) Typical high-pressure XRD patterns of the sample measured
with pressure increasing from 2.3 to 40.4 GPa, and then decreasing to
3.7 GPa (labeled as “d”). A peak at 8.4 GPa indicated by arrow evidences
a structural transition. (b) Representative Rietveld refinements of the
XRD patterns at 2.3 and 40.4 GPa. (c) Pressure dependence of the refined
lattice parameters a (circles), b (squares), and c (triangle) for the
α-PdBi₂, as well as the high-pressure phase.

the XRD pattern can be well indexed by single-phase monoclinic crystal
structure with space group C2/_m_ (No. 12), which is the same as that of
_a_-PdBi₂ measured at ambient pressure. At 8.4 GPa, additional
diffraction peaks begin to occur [see the arrow in Fig. 5(a)]. Two-phase
Rietveld refinements of the XRD patterns above 8.4 GPa prove that the
emergent high-pressure phase is in a tetragonal structure with space
group _I4/mmm_ (No. 144), which is the same as that of _b_-PdBi₂ at
ambient pressure. It is found that the α phase and high-pressure β phase
coexist until the highest measured pressure of 40.4 GPa. When the
pressure is released down to 3.7 GPa (denoted by _d_), the XRD pattern
is not much changed from the high-pressure one, except the shift in
diffraction angles, indicative of the retention of the high-pressure
structure. In Fig. 5(c), we present the gradual contraction of the
lattice constants for both _a_- and b phases with increasing pressure.

The evolutions of volume _V_/_Z_ (the unit-cell volume per chemical
formula) with increasing pressure for the α phase and high-pressure β
phase are plotted in Fig. 6(a). The isothermal equations of state (EoS)
were fitted to the third-order Birch-Murnaghan formula [35]:

$$P = \tfrac{3}{2}B_{0}[(V_{0}/V)^{7/3}-(V_{0}/V)^{5/3}]$$
(1)
$$\times\big{\{}1+\tfrac{3}{4}(B_{0}^{\prime}-4)[(V_{0}/V)^{2/3}-1] \big{\}},$$

where V₀, B₀, and B^(′)₀ are the zero-pressure volume, bulk modulus
−V/(dV/dP), and first-order derivative of the bulk modulus at zero
pressure, respectively. The fitting yields V₀ = 76.1 A³, B₀ = 36.9 GPa,
and B^(′)₀ = 13.4 for the α phase; and 72.7 A³, 63.8 GPa, and 6.6 for
the high-pressure β phase. A volume collapse over the structural
transition is detected and estimated to be ΔV/V ∼ 2.7%, which
characterizes a first-order transition. To provide a clear picture of
the pressure-driven structural transition, we estimate the volume
fractions of the two coexisting phases and present the results in Fig.
6(b). As one can see, the volume fraction of β phase begins to be
detected at P_(c) and increases rapidly upon further compression. Beyond
17 GPa, the β-phase volume fraction gradually gets saturated and,
simultaneously, the T_(c) changes to decay [see Fig. 3(f)].

At pressures below P_(c) ∼ 8 GPa where the lattice structure of
_a_-PdBi₂ is stable, the superconductivity is initially favored with
T_(c) keeping a nearly constant value around 2.4 K. Similar
pressure-independent feature of T_(c) was also observed in Bi₂Se₃,
Cd₃As₂, and PtBi₂, which was considered as an indication of
unconventional superconductivity [36, 37, 38]. Compared with _a_-PdBi₂,
the _b_-PdBi₂ has a smaller unit-cell volume or a higher atomic density;
therefore, the β phase would become more stable under high pressure.
Above P_(c) ∼ 8 GPa, the emergent β phase with a higher T_(c) coexists
and competes with the original α phase, which leads to the increase of
T_(c). With further increasing pressure, while the growing volume
fraction or improved sample quality of β phase contributes to an
enhancement of T_(c), the pressure itself may have a suppression effect
on T_(c) of β phase. Actually, the pressure effect on the
superconductivity of the β phase has been investigated by G. Pristas _et
al._[14] and Zhao _et al._[6]. Both reports show that the T_(c)
decreases linearly with increasing pressure up to 2.4 GPa. If such
linear correlation persists to higher pressures, the superconductivity
would be completely suppressed at ∼19.9 GPa. Nevertheless, we find that
the superconductivity in the β phase is much more robust than
expectation.

Interestingly, when the applied pressure is gradually released from 42.9
down to 1.7 GPa, the superconductivity gets enhanced monotonically. At
first glance, the superconductivity enhancement could be assigned to the
negative correlation between T_(c) and pressure in the _b_-PdBi₂ which
is retained to ambient pressure. However, since the β phase dominates at
pressures above P_(c) ∼ 8 GPa in both compression and decompression
processes, normally the evolution of T_(c) in decompression should
follow the trend in compression at least above 8 GPa. As mentioned
above, the T_(c) of _b_-PdBi₂ at ambient condition varies from 4.25 to
5.4 K depending on the sample quality [1, 2, 14]. After experiencing a
pressure circling, the improvement of sample quality (i.e.,
crystallinity of β phase) could be expected. Thereby, the irreversible
evolutions of T_(c), including the decompression-induced enhancement,
can be explained by competition between the pressure-manipulated sample
quality and pressure effects on superconductivity in this
pressure-quenchable phase. We note that similar behavior of
decompression-enhanced superconductivity was also observed in
In₂Se₃[39]. We speculate that the scenario of pressure-enhanced sample
quality might also apply to the

Figure 6: (a) Unit-cell volume for both the α phase and high-pressure β
phase of PdBi₂ as functions of pressure. The solid lines depict a fit to
the experimental data using the third-order Birch-Murnaghan EOS [35].
(b) Pressure dependence of the volume fractions of α phase (black) and β
phase (red).

situation in In₂Se₃, although a phonon softening mechanism is proposed
there [39]. Further relevant researches are expected to address this
issue.

## IV Conclusion

In summary, we have investigated the pressure effects on the
superconductivity and structural properties of α-PdBi₂ single crystal.
The α-PdBi₂ is stable up to P_(c) ∼ 8 GPa, at which the structural
transition to β-PdBi₂ was detected. Beyond P_(c), a dome shape of T_(c),
as well as a pressure-quenchable or even a decompression-enhanced
superconductivity, is observed and considered as a result of the
competition between the improvement of sample quality and suppression
effect of pressure on superconductivity in the β phase.

###### Acknowledgements.

This work was supported by the National Key Research and Development
Program of China (Grants No. 2018YFA0305700 and No. 2016YFA0401804), the
National Natural Science Foundation of China (Grants No. 11574323, No.
U1632275, No. 11874362, No. U1832209, No. 11704387, No. 11804344, and
No. 11605276), the Major Program of Development Foundation of Hefei
Center for Physical Science and Technology (Grant No. 2018ZYFX002), the
Users with Excellence Project of Hefei Science Center CAS (Grant No.
2018HSC-UE012), the Natural Science Foundation of Anhui Province (Grants
No. 1808085MA06 and No. 1708085QA19). The x-ray diffraction experiment
was performed at the beamline BL15U1, SSRF. We thank H. Y. Shu for his
help with the HPSTAR equipment.

## References

* [1]B. T. Matthias, T. H. Geballe, and V. B. Compton, Rev. Mod. Phys.
**35**, 1 (1963). * [2]Y. Imai, F. Nabeshima, T. Yoshinaka, K. Miyatani,
R. Kondo, S. Komiya, I. Tsukada, and A. Maeda, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn.
**81**, 113708 (2012). * [3]I. R. Shein and A. L. Ivanovskii, J.
Supercond. Novel Magn. **26**, 1 (2013). * [4]E. Herrera, I. Guillamon,
J. A. Galvis, A. Correa, A. Fente, R. F. Luccas, F. J. Mompean, M.
Garcia-Hernandez, S. Vieira, J. P. Brison, and H. Suderow, Phys. Rev. B
**92**, 054507 (2015). * [5]M. Sakano, K. Okawa, M. Kanou, H. Sanjo, T.
Okuda, T. Sasagawa, and K. Ishizaka, Nat. Commun. **6**, 8595 (2015). *
[6]K. Zhao, B. Lv, Y.-Y. Xue, X.-Y. Zhu, L. Z. Deng, Z. Wu, and C. W.
Chu, Phys. Rev. B **92**, 174404 (2015). * [7]P. K. Biswas, D. G.
Mazzone, R. Sibille, E. Pomjakushina, K. Conder, H. Luetkens, C. Baines,
J. L. Gavilano, M. Kenzelmann, A. Amato, and E. Morenzoni, Phys. Rev. B
**93**, 220504(R) (2016). * [8]L. Q. Che, T. Le, C. Q. Xu, X. Z. Xing,
Z. X. Shi, X. F. Xu, and X. Lu, Phys. Rev. B **94**, 024519 (2016). *
[9]J. Kacmarcik, Z. Pribulova, T. Samuely, P. Szabo, V. Cambel, J.
Soltys, E. Herrera, H. Suderow, A. Correa-Orellana, D. Prabhakaran, and
P. Samuely, Phys. Rev. B **93**, 144502 (2016). * [10]K. Iwaya, Y.
Kohsaka, K. Okawa, T. Machida, M. S. Bahramy, T. Hanaguri, and T.
Sasagawa, Nat. Commun. **8**, 976 (2017). * [11]Y. F. Lv, W. L. Wang, Y.
M. Zhang, H. Ding, W. Li, L. L. Wang, K. He, C. L. Song, X. C. Ma, and
Q. K. Xue, Sci. Bull. **62**, 852 (2017). * [12]H. Matsuzaki, K. Nagai,
N. Kase, T. Nakano, and N. Takeda, J. Phys.: Conf. Ser. **871**, 012004
(2017). * [13]J.-J. Zheng and E. R. Margine, Phys. Rev. B **95**, 014512
(2017). * [14]G. Pristas, M. Orendac, S. Gabahi, J. Kacmarcik, E. Gazo,
Z. Pribulova, A. Correa-Orellana, E. Herrera, H. Suderow, and P.
Samuely, Phys. Rev. B **97**, 134505 (2018). * [15]H. Choi, M. Neupane,
T. Sasagawa, E. E. M. Chia, and J.-X. Zhu, Phys. Rev. Mater. **1**,
034201 (2017). * [16]K. Dimitri, M. M. Hosen, G. Dhakal, H. Choi, F.
Kabir, C. Sims, D. Kaczorowski, T. Durakiewicz, J.-X. Zhu, and M.
Neupane, Phys. Rev. B **97**, 144514 (2018). * [17]S. Mitra, K. Okawa,
S. Kunmisiyl Sudheesh, T. Sasagawa, J.-X. Zhu, and E. E. M. Chia, Phys.
Rev. B **95**, 134519 (2017). * [18]L. P. Gor’kov and V. Z. Kresin, Rev.
Mod. Phys. **90**, 011001 (2018). * [19]H.-K. Mao, X.-J. Chen, Y. Ding,
B. Li, and L. Wang, Rev. Mod. Phys. **90**, 015007 (2018). * [20]L. J.
Zhang, Y. C. Wang, J. Lv, and Y. M. Ma, Nat. Rev. Mater. **2**, 17005
(2017). * [21]Q. Si, R. Yu, and E. Abrahams, Nat. Rev. Mater. **1**,
16017 (2016). * [22]A. P. Drozdov, M. I. Eremets, I. A. Troyan, V.
Ksenofontov, and S. I. Shylin, Nature (London) **525**, 73 (2015). *
[23]B. Keimer, S. A. Kivelson, M. R. Norman, S. Uchida, and J. Zaanen,
Nature (London) **518**, 179 (2015). * [24]J. L. Zhang, S. J. Zhang, H.
M. Weng, W. Zhang, L. X. Yang, Q. Q. Liu, S. M. Feng, X. C. Wang, R. C.
Yu, L. Z. Cao, L. Wang, W. G. Yang, H. Z. Liu, W. Y. Zhao, S. C. Zhang,
X. Dai, Z. Fang, and C. Q. Jin, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA **108**, 24
(2011). * [25]J. Zhu, J. L. Zhang, P. P. Kong, S. J. Zhang, X. H. Yu, J.
L. Zhu, Q. Q. Liu, X. Li, R. C. Yu, R. Ahuja, W. G. Yang, G. Y. Shen, H.
K. Mao, H. M. Weng, X. Dai, Z. Fang, Y. S. Zhao, and C. Q. Jin, Sci.
Rep. **3**, 2016 (2013). * [26]C. Prescher and V. B. Prakapenka, High
Pressure Res. **35**, 223 (2015). * [27]B. A. Hunter, fretica–A Visual
Rietveld Program, International Union of Crystallography Commission on
Powder Diffraction Newsletter No. 20 (Summer1998),
http://www.rietica.org. * [28]H. K. Mao, J. Xu, and P. M. Bell, J.
Geophys. Res. **91**, 4673 (1986). * [29]R. Daou, N. Doiron-Leyraud, D.
LeBoeuf, S. Y. Li, F. Laliberte, O. Cyr-Choiniere, Y. J. Jo, L. Balicas,
J. Q. Yan, J. S. Zhou, J. B. Goodenough, and L. Taillefer, Nat. Phys.
**5**, 31 (2008). * [30]H.v. Lohneysen, A. Rosch, M. Vojta, and P.
Wolfle, Rev. Mod. Phys. **79**, 1015 (2007). * [31]S. Kasahara, T.
Shibauchi, K. Hashimoto, K. Ikada, S. Tonegawa, R. Okazaki, H. Shishido,
H. Ikeda, H. Takeya, K. Hirata, T. Terashima, and Y. Matsuda, Phys. Rev.
B **81**, 184519 (2010). * [32]N. R. Werthamer, E. Helfand, and P. C.
Hohenberg, Phys. Rev. **147**, 295 (1966). * [33]B. S. Chandrasekhar,
Appl. Phys. Lett. **1**, 7 (1962).

* [34] A. M. Clogston, Phys. Rev. Lett. **9**, 266 (1962). * [35] F.
Birch, Phys. Rev. **71**, 809 (1947). * [36] K. Kirshenbaum, P. S.
Spers, A. P. Hope, N. P. Butch, J. R. Jeffries, S. T. Weir, J. J.
Hamlin, M. B. Maple, Y. K. Vohra, and J. Paglione, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**111**, 087001 (2013). * [37] L. P. He, Y. T. Jia, S. J. Zhang, X. C.
Hong, C. Q. Jin, and S. Y. Li, npj Quantum Mater. **1**, 16014 (2016). *
[38] X. L. Chen, D. X. Shao, C. C. Gu, Y. H. Zhou, C. An, Y. Zhou, X. D.
Zhu, T. Chen, M. L. Tian, J. Sun, and Z. R. Yang, Phys. Rev. Mater.
**2**, 054203 (2018). * [39] F. Ke, H. N. Dong, Y. B. Chen, J. B. Zhang,
C. L. Liu, J. K. Zhang, Y. Gan, Y. H. Han, Z. Q. Chen, C. X. Gao, J. S.
Wen, W. G. Yang, X. J. Chen, V. V. Struzhkin, H. K. Mao, and B. Chen,
Adv. Mater. **29**, 1701983 (2017).
