Transport and microwave study of superconducting and magnetic
RuSr₂EuCu₂O₈

M. Pozek, A. Dulcic, and D. Paar

Department of Physics, Faculty of Science, University of Zagreb, P.O.
Box 331, HR-10002 Zagreb, Croatia

G. V. M. Williams

2. Physikalisches Institut, Universitat Stuttgart, D-70550 Stuttgart,
Germany

and The New Zealand Institute for Industrial Research, P.O. Box 31310,
Lower Hutt, New Zealand

S. Kramer

2. Physikalisches Institut, Universitat Stuttgart, D-70550 Stuttgart,
Germany

20001220001220001220001220001220001220001220001200 peratures below the
magnetic ordering temperature the magnetoresistance displayed an
anomalous increase and then decrease with increasing applied magnetic
field. The magnetoresistance above the magnetic ordering temperature was
analyzed within the Zener, or _s-d_ model to extract an exchange energy.
The size of the deduced exchange energy is large and comparable to the
energy of the superconducting gap. It was not possible from this study
to determine if the RuO₂ layers contributed significantly to the
electronic transport.

There are a number of unexpected structural and transport changes that
occur for temperatures in the vicinity of the magnetic ordering
temperature. For example, studies on RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈ ceramic samples report
a decrease in the Hall coefficient.[9] Structural refinement studies on
RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈ show that only the Cu-Cu bond length (i.e., the distance
between the CuO₂ planes) and the Cu-O-Cu bond angle are affected by the
magnetic order.[8] In this paper we report the results from a transport
and microwave study of RuSr₂EuCu₂O₈ with the aim to address the
questions above and improve the understanding of the ruthenate cuprates.

## Experimental Details

The RuSr₂EuCu₂O₈ ceramic samples were prepared using the same synthesis
conditions used to make RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈.[6] The starting materials were
RuO₂, Eu₂O₃, CuO, and SrCO₃. The synthesis process involved (i)
decomposing at 960 ^(∘)C in air for 12 h, (ii) sintering at 1010 ^(∘)C
in flowing N₂ for 10 h, (iii) sintering at 1055 ^(∘)C in flowing O₂ for
10 h, (v) sintering at 1060 ^(∘)C in flowing O₂ for 7 days. The samples
were ground after each processing step. The first step is required to
suppress the SrRuO₃ impurity phase.[14] The last process is crucial for
obtaining samples with high zero resistance superconducting transition
temperatures. The samples were characterized using x-ray diffraction and
there was no evidence of the ferromagnetic SrRuO₃ or the Sr₂EuRuO₆
impurity phases to within the ∼2

The resistance was measured between 5 and 300 K and variable temperature
thermopower measurements were made between 10 and 300 K. The minimum
measurable resistance was 5 × 10⁻⁶Ω. The ac susceptibility data was
obtained on a sintered ceramic rod using a SQUID in zero applied
magnetic field. The ac magnetic field was 0.05 G and the frequency was 1
kHz. The dc susceptibility measurements were made using a SQUID and with
an applied magnetic field of 100 G.

The microwave measurements were made in an elliptical _(x)TE₁₁₁ cavity
operating at 9.3 GHz. The sample was mounted on a sapphire sample holder
and positioned in the cavity center where the microwave electric field
is maximum. The temperature of the sample could be varied from liquid
helium to room temperature while the body of the microwave cavity was
kept at liquid helium temperature. This enabled us to achieve high Q
factors (about 20 000 for the unloaded cavity) and good thermal
stability. The cryostat with the microwave cavity was placed in a
superconducting magnet so that the sample could be exposed to a dc
magnetic field of up to 80 kG. The changes in the microwave electrical
conductivity of the sample induced by either temperature or magnetic
field were detected by a corresponding change in the Q factor of the
cavity. The quantity 1/2Q represents the total losses of the cavity and
the sample. The experimental uncertainty in the determination of 1/2Q
was about 0.03 ppm. The details of the detection scheme are given
elsewhere.[17]

## Results and Analyses

We present in Fig. 1 the zero-field ac susceptibility data from SQUID
measurements on RuSr₂EuCu₂O₈. The three main features are (i) a peak in
the susceptibility near 132 K, (ii) a sudden decrease in the
susceptibility for temperatures less than ∼32 K, and (iii) the onset of
bulk diamagnetism below ∼12 K. The decrease near ∼32 K has been
attributed to the onset of superconductivity and the lower temperature
decrease at ∼12 K has been attributed to the onset of the Meissner
phase[16] which, by comparison with a study on RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈.[12] may be
suppressed due to a spontaneous vortex phase. The peak near 132 K is due
to the onset of predominately low-field antiferromagnetic order.
However, there is a small ferromagnetic component with a remanent
magnetization at 5 K of 0.05μ_(B)/Ru.[15] In the case of RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈
the small ferromagnetic component at 5 K is three times larger than that
in RuSr₂EuCu₂O₈. The peak near 132 K seen in Fig. 1 has been shown to
rapidly disappear with increasing magnetic field and is no longer
present for magnetic fields greater than 2.5 kG.[15]

The dc resistance and thermopower are plotted against temperature in
Fig. 2. Both samples of RuSr₂EuCu₂O₈ (samples A and B) exhibit weakly
pronounced maxima in the dc resistance near the magnetic transition
temperature (∼132 K). This feature is more clearly seen in the insert to
Fig. 2(a) (lower curve) where we plot the derivative of the dc
resistance. A similar peak is also weakly evident in well-annealed
RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈ as can be seen by the dashed curve in Fig.

Figure 1: Plot of the RuSr₂EuCu₂O₈ zero-field ac susceptibility against
temperature for an ac field of 0.05 G and a frequency of 1 kHz. The
susceptibility has not been corrected for demagnetization effects.

2(a) and the corresponding derivative (upper curve in the Fig. 2 inset).
At lower temperatures the dc resistance of RuSr₂EuCu₂O₈ shows a
semiconductorlike upturn followed by the onset of superconductivity at
32 K. The zero resistance state occurs for temperatures below ∼12 K.
There is a small increase in the zero resistance temperature for our
best sample (sample B) and only a small reduction in the
semiconductorlike upturn. This sample was prepared using the same
process described in the previous section but a different person
prepared it. Previous studies on RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈ have shown that the
semiconductorlike upturn and the zero resistance temperature are
critically dependent on the sample processing.[5, 14] A high resolution
TEM study on RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈ has shown that prolonged thermal treatment at
1060 ^(∘)C removes most of the multidomain structure, consisting
predominantly of 90^(∘) rotations, as well as significantly reducing the
semiconductible upturn.[5]

The thermopower from RuSr₂EuCu₂O₈ is plotted in Fig. 2(b). We note that
the room-temperature thermopower for RuSr₂EuCu₂O₈ (∼73 μV/K) is only
slightly greater than that observed in RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈ (∼60 μV/K). It has
been concluded that the room-temperature thermopower of RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈ is
comparable to that of an underdoped high-temperature superconducting
cuprate.[6] A similar interpretation of the room-temperature thermopower
from RuSr₂EuCu₂O₈ would indicate that the hole concentration in the CuO₂
planes is only slightly less than that in RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈. A lower hole
concentration in RuSr₂EuCu₂O₈ could also explain why T_(c) (as
determined from the peak in the resistance and the initial decrease in
the susceptibility) is lower in RuSr₂EuCu₂O₈ (∼32 K) when compared with
RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈ (∼45 K). We show in the insert to Fig. 2(b) that, similar
to the resistance data plotted in Fig. 2(a), the derivative of the
thermopower changes markedly near the onset of magnetic ordering
temperature. This change could be due to the magnetic transition or it
could be fortuitous because the temperature dependence of the
thermopower is remarkably similar to underdoped YBa₂Cu₂O_(7 − δ) (Ref.
[18]) and La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄. For example, YBa₂Cu₂O_(8.47) has a
room-temperature thermopower that is comparable to RuSr₂EuCu₂O₈ and
there is a broad maxima centered near 170 K.

It can be seen in Fig. 2(b) that the thermopower from RuSr₂EuCu₂O₈ is
near zero for temperatures less than ∼20 K. However, there is a
significant decrease in the thermopower for temperatures less than ∼53
K. This temperature is greater than the temperature where the decrease
in the ac susceptibility and resistance are observed (∼32 K). In the
case of RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈, the thermopower begins to significantly decrease
for temperatures less than ∼66 K while the resistance decrease, the zero
thermopower, the change in the dc susceptibility and the peak in the
heat capacity are all observed near 45 K.[6] The origin of the initial
decrease in the thermopower at a temperature which is ∼21 K above the
significant change in the susceptibility at ∼32 K in RuSr₂EuCu₂O₈ and
∼45 K in RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈ is not clear. However, this correlation would
appear in indicate that it is intrinsic.

We present in Fig. 3 temperature dependences of 1/2Q for applied
magnetic fields up to 80 kG. It has previously been shown that the
contribution to the total 1/2Q due to the sample is a measure of the
microwave resistance.[19] For thick samples, the microwave penetration
depth is much less than the sample thickness and 1/2Q is the real part
of the surface impedance of the material. It is proportional to the
square root of the sample resistivity. When the sample thickness is
smaller than the penetration depth, 1/2Q depends linearly on
resistivity. In the present case, the ceramic samples are thick while
individual grains range from thin to thick with respect to the microwave
penetration depth.

The zero-field curve plotted in Fig. 3 shows the onset of
superconductivity at 32 K, which is the same temperature where the dc
resistance begins to decrease. However, at lower temperatures the
microwave resistance continuously decreases (at least for temperatures
at, and above, 5 K) in contrast to the dc case where the dc resistance
is zero below 12 K. We show later that this may be due to a spontaneous
vortex phase. An increasing applied magnetic field has a dramatic effect
on the resistance below ∼32 K. The mechanisms involve flux penetration
in intergranular weak links and the formation of the vortex phase in the
grains.[20] These features will be analyzed later on when the data from
a powder sample is also presented.

It can be seen in Fig. 3 that the zero-field curve has a small peak at
∼130 K similar to the dc resistance peak in Fig. 2(a). This peak is more
apparent in the inset to Fig. 3. The peaks in both the microwave
resistance and the dc resistance occur near the magnetic ordering
temperature.

Figure 2: (a) Plot of the dc resistance against temperature for two
RuSr₂EuCu₂O₈ samples (A and B, solid curves) and a RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈ sample
(dashed curve). The solid horizontal line is zero resistance. Inset:
plot of the derivative of the resistance from RuSr₂EuCu₂O₈ (sample A and
lower curve) and RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈ (upper curve). (b) Plot of the thermopower
against temperature for RuSr₂EuCu₂O₈ (sample A). Inset: plot of the
concomitant derivative of the thermopower from sample A.

It is apparent in Fig. 3 that the peak at ∼130 K is rapidly suppressed
by an applied magnetic field. It is interesting to look at the field
dependence of the microwave resistance in more detail. The magnetic
field dependence of 1/2Q at 130 K is shown in Fig. 4. One can notice a
rapid decrease in 1/2Q for low magnetic fields followed by a transition
to a slow, almost linear, dependence at high fields. However, the
decrease does not saturate even at 80 kG, the highest magnetic field in
our measurement. The rapid decrease of the microwave resistance for low
magnetic fields is observed only for temperatures near 130 K. For
temperatures further away from 130 K one observes only a slow linear
decrease of the microwave resistance with increasing applied magnetic
field. This is clearly seen in the insert to Fig. 3 and the curves for
80 and 200 K plotted in Fig. 4. One may conclude that the microwave
resistance around 130 K contains two contributions with different field
dependence. The narrow peak seen in the inset to Fig. 3 appears to be
superimposed on a broad maximum extending to ±50 K away from the peak.

The data in Figs. 3 and 4 can be understood by noting that the microwave
penetration depth depends on the effective conductivity of the medium.
The highly conducting CuO₂ planes and poorly conducting RuO₂ planes act
in parallel so that the latter make a negligible contribution to the
effective intragranular conductivity. The only significant effect of the
RuO₂ layer is to cause additional scattering via exchange coupling
between the Ru moment and the conduction band carriers in the CuO₂
layers. Thus, a simple explanation for the decrease in the microwave
resistance with increasing magnetic field is that the applied magnetic
field is suppressing an additional scattering mechanism, which arises
due to fluctuations of the Ru moment. It can be noticed that the narrow
peak in the microwave resistance disappears with increasing magnetic
field in a manner similar to the disappearance of the predominately
low-field antiferromagnetic order in the RuO₂ planes.[15] The broad
maximum could then be associated with the ferromagnetic behavior.
Further evidence that the RuO₂ layers do not directly contribute to the
conductivity can be seen in the dc resistance and thermopower. There are
no dramatic changes in the dc resistance near the magnetic transition
temperature as seen for example in SrRuO₃.[21, 22]

The granularity of the sintered sample is important in interpreting the
transport measurements. In both the dc and microwave measurements the
current flows not only in the CuO₂ planes of individual grains but also
across the intergranular medium. This is a connection in series so that
the corresponding resistivities must be added. As a result, the
intergranular medium makes a significant contribution to the total
resistivity. It is important to disentangle the contributions from the
intergranular and the intragranular conduction paths. For this reason,
we prepared a powder sample which was embedded in an epoxy to eliminate
the intergranular conduction paths.

We show in Fig. 5(a) that the magnetic properties of the powder sample
are similar to those of the ceramic sample. Here we plot the
zero-field-cooled (lower curve) and field-cooled (upper curve) dc
magnetization at 100 G. By comparing Figs. 1 and 5(a) it can be seen
that both the ceramic and powder samples have the same magnetic
transition temperature and the same superconducting transition
temperature.

Obviously, dc resistance measurements are excluded on powder samples,
but microwave measurements with induced currents in individual grains
are feasible. We present in Fig. 5(b) the zero-field microwave
resistance curve for the same sample as in Fig. 5(a). As expected, the
overall microwave resistance is smaller than that from a ceramic sample
of a comparable size. More important is the observation that the

Figure 4: Plot of 1/2Q against magnetic field for temperatures of 80,
130, and 200 K. The solid line is a guide to the eye.

Figure 3: Plot of 1/2Q against temperature for applied fields of 0 G, 1
kG, 3 kG, 6 kG and 80 kG. Insert: plot of 1/2Q over an expanded
temperature range. The arrows indicate increasing magnetic field.

resistance curve for the powder sample does not show the strong
semiconductorlike upturn at temperatures below ∼120 K which is present
in sintered samples (see Figs. 2 and 3). This is clear proof that the
pronounced semiconductorlike upturn in the sintered samples is due to
the intergranular conduction paths. Also, in Fig. 5(b) one can see that
the small peak in the microwave resistance for the powder sample is
present in the same form as in the sintered samples. Therefore, it
appears to be an intrinsic property of the magnetic transition in the
RuSr₂EuCu₂O₈ compound.

As mentioned above, the superconducting state in RuSr₂EuCu₂O₈ is complex
and affects the ac susceptibility, thermopower, dc resistance and
microwave resistance in different ways. For example, the ac
susceptibility, dc resistance and the microwave resistance all decrease
for temperatures below ∼32 K. However, the ac susceptibility shows the
onset of a diamagnetic transition below ∼12 K, the dc resistance is zero
below 12 K but the microwave resistance continually decreases for
temperatures down to 5 K. In an attempt to understand the origin of this
complex behavior, we measured the magnetic field dependence of 1/2Q at
different temperatures below T_(c) . The resultant 1/2Q is plotted
against applied magnetic field in Fig. 6 for temperatures increasing
from 5 to 25 K. At temperatures just below T_(c) , the microwave
resistance increases smoothly with the applied field. The curve at 25 K
in Fig. 6 is representative of such a behavior. At lower temperatures
one can see a progressive development of a narrow minimum centered at
zero field. A small applied magnetic field considerably increases the
microwave resistance. At 5 K we find that 90

We have also measured the magnetic field dependence of the microwave
resistance for the powder sample embedded in an epoxy resin. The insert
to Fig. 6 shows the curve at 5 K. The powder sample exhibits only a
remnant of the low-field sharp minimum. This is clear evidence that the
sharp minimum in 1/2Q seen in the sintered samples is due to
intergranular weak links. It appears that grinding the sample into
powder and dispersing the grains in an epoxy removes most of the
weak-links associated with grain to grain conduction paths.

We now return to the analysis of the dc resistance and microwave
resistance curves below T_(c) . As mentioned earlier, the resistance
transitions are very broad. This cannot be due to impurity phases
because any impurity phase is below the x-ray diffraction detection
limit (∼2

Figure 5: (a) Plot of the zero-field-cooled (lower curve) and
field-cooled (upper curve) dc magnetization against temperature for the
powder sample in an epoxy resin and for an applied magnetic field of 100
G. (b) Plot of 1/2Q against temperature for the same sample as in (a) in
the absence of an external applied magnetic field (solid curve) and for
an applied magnetic field of 80 kG (filled circles). Note that the
background level is estimated to be 34 ppm.

Figure 6: Plot of 1/2Q against magnetic field for temperatures of 5, 10,
15, 20, and 25 K for the ceramic sample. The arrow indicates increasing
temperature. Inset: Plot of 1/2Q against magnetic field at 5 K for the
powder sample diluted in epoxy resin. Note that the background level is
estimated to be 34 ppm.

established. A scenario based on weak links is not sufficient to explain
the microwave resistance data on sintered _and_ powder samples. In
particular, 1/2Q decreases continually from  32 down to 5 K for both the
sintered and powder samples in the absence of an external applied
magnetic field. Since the powder sample is practically free of
intergranular weak links, one needs another mechanism to explain the
broad resistance transition widths.

We show below that the spontaneous vortex phase model proposed for
RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈ and RuSr₂Gd_(2 − x)Ce_(x)Cu₂O_(10 + δ) (Refs. [2, 12, and
16]) can account for the broad superconducting transitions observed in
both the dc and microwave resistance data. In this model the spontaneous
magnetization from the RuO₂ layers results in a local magnetic field
that is greater than the lower critical field B_(c1) for temperatures
greater than $T_{\rm SVF}$ and less than T_(c). [25] The effect of a
spontaneous vortex phase is to suppress the Meissner phase as mentioned
earlier and as is apparent in Fig. 1. The zero dc resistance temperature
will occur between $T_{\rm SVF}$ and T_(c) and the temperature at which
it occurs $T_{\rm irr}$ will depend on the value of the magnetic
irreversibility field.

Unlike, the dc resistance data, the zero-field microwave resistance is
finite below T_(c) even in the absence of a spontaneous vortex phase.
This can be understood by considering the frequency dependence of the
complex conductivity
$\overline{\sigma}(T,\omega)=\sigma_{1}(T)-i\,\sigma_{2}(T,\omega)$,
where the real part σ₁(T) is due to quasiparticle excitations at finite
temperatures and σ₂(T, ω) = [μ₀ωλ_(L)(T)²]⁻¹ is due to the
superconducting fluid. It is apparent that σ₂(T, ω) decreases with
increasing frequency and this will lead to finite microwave absorption
below T_(c). However, as the temperature is reduced below T_(c), σ₂ will
rapidly increase and σ₁ will decrease. The net effect will be a rapid
decrease in the microwave absorption below T_(c), which is observed in
the HTSC. [20, 23, 24, 26] For applied magnetic fields greater than
B_(c1) or in the presence of a spontaneous vortex phase there are
additional losses due to vortices being driven by the induced microwave
currents. This process occurs in both sintered and powder samples. The
pinning of vortices for temperatures less than $T_{\rm irr}$ will lead
to zero dc resistance. However, at microwave frequencies the vortices
can oscillate within the pinning wells and still give rise to a finite
resistance below $T_{\rm irr}$.

It is clear in Figs. 3 and 5 that the width of the superconducting
transition as measured by the microwave resistance technique is
significantly broader than that measured at zero frequency. Furthermore,
the zero-field microwave superconducting transition width is broader
than theoretically expected and the temperature dependence of the
microwave resistance below T_(c) does not follow that observed in other
HTSC’s. [20, 23, 24, 26] As mentioned above, we expect a rapid decrease
in the zero-field microwave resistance below T_(c). However, it is
apparent in Fig. 5(b) that there is a linear decrease in the microwave
resistance below T_(c) and the low-temperature microwave resistance is
significantly greater than zero. We believe that the simplest
explanation is that there exists a spontaneous vortex phase.

The spontaneous vortex phase interpretation is further supported by the
microwave resistance data at 80 kG and plotted in Fig. 5(b) (filled
circles) for the powder sample. It is remarkable that the temperature
dependence of the microwave resistance below T_(c) is linear at zero
applied field and with an applied field of 80 kG. This indicates that
the mechanism responsible for the broad transition at 80 kG is likely to
be the same for zero applied field. At 80 kG there are clearly vortices
in the samples and hence it is reasonable to assume that the linear
temperature dependence in zero applied field is due to a spontaneous
vortex phase.

## Conclusion

In conclusion, we have performed a susceptibility, thermopower, dc
resistance and microwave study on RuSr₂EuCu₂O₈, which has been shown to
exhibit the coexistence of superconductivity and magnetic order. We show
that there are clear and well-defined changes in the transport and
microwave data about the magnetic transition temperature (132 K). In
particular, there is a narrow peak in both the dc and microwave
resistance at the magnetic ordering temperature. It is superimposed on a
broad maximum which extends approximately 50 K above and below the
magnetic ordering temperature. The resistance in this region decreases
with increasing magnetic field. A consistent interpretation of the data
is that the conduction mechanism is dominated by the CuO₂ layers but the
fluctuations of the magnetic order parameter in the RuO₂ layers affects
the scattering rate of the carriers in the CuO₂ layers. It is also shown
that most of the low-temperature semiconductorlike increase in the
normal-state arises from intergranular transport. Below T_(c) (32 K) we
find evidence of numerous superconducting weak links in the sintered
sample which are all driven normal for magnetic fields greater than
∼5000 G at 5 K. These weak links are practically absent in powder
samples. A consistent interpretation of both the dc and microwave
resistance data can be made in terms of a spontaneous vortex phase.

## Acknowledgments

We acknowledge funding support from the New Zealand Marsden Fund and the
Alexander von Humboldt Foundation. We thank J. L. Tallon and C. Bernhard
for providing and processing one of the samples (sample A).

## References

* [1] A. Felner, U. Asaf, Y. Levi, and O. Milio, Phys. Rev. B **55**,
3374 (1997). * [2] E. B. Sonin and I. Felner, Phys. Rev. B **57**, 14000
(1998). * [3] J. Tallon, C. Bernhard, M. Bowden, P. Gilbert, T. Stoto,
and D. Pringle, IEEE Trans. Appl. Supercond. **9**, 1051 (1999). * [4]
C. Bernhard, J. L. Tallon, Ch. Neidermayer, Th. Blasius, A. Golnik, E.
Brucher, R. K. Kremer, D. R. Noakes, C. E. Stronach, and E. J. Ansaldo,
Phys. Rev. B **59**, 14099 (1999). * [5] A. C. McLaughlin, W. Zhou, J.
P. Attfield, A. N. Fitch, and J. L. Tallon, Phys. Rev. B **60**, 7512
(1999).

* [6] J. L. Tallon, J. W. Loram, G. W. M. Williams, and C. Bernhard,
Phys. Rev. B **61**, 6471 (2000). * [7] W. E. Picket, R. Weht, and A. B.
Shick, Phys. Rev. Lett. **83**, 3713 (1999). * [8] O. Chmaissem, J. D.
Jorgensen, H. Shaked, P. Dollar, and J. L. Tallon, Phys. Rev. B **61**,
6401 (2000). * [9] J. E. McCrone, J. R. Cooper, and J. L. Tallon, J. Low
Temp. Phys. **117**, 1199 (1999). * [10] A. Fainstein, E. Winkler, A.
Butera, and J. L. Tallon, Phys. Rev. B **60**, 12597 (1999). * [11] J.
W. Lynn, B. Keimer, C. Ulrich, C. Bernhard, and J. L. Tallon, Phys. Rev.
B **61**, 14964 (2000). * [12] C. Bernhard, J. L. Tallon, E. Bucher, and
R. K. Kremer, Phys. Rev. B **61**, 14960 (2000). * [13] L. Bauernfeind,
W. Widder, and H. F. Braun, Physica C **254**, 151 (1995). * [14] L.
Bauernfeind, W. Widder, and H. F. Braun, J. Low Temp. Phys. **105**,
1605 (1996). * [15] G. V. M. Williams and S. Kramer, Phys. Rev. B
**62**, 4132 (2000). * [16] C. Bernhard (private communication). * [17]
B. Nebendahl, D.-N. Peligrad, M. Pozek, A. Dulcic, and M. Mehring, Rev.
Sci. Instrum. **72**, 1876 (2001). * [18] J. L. Tallon, J. R. Cooper, P.
S. I. P. N. de Silva, G. V. M. Williams, and J. L. Tallon, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **75**, 4114 (1995). * [19] D. N. Peligrad, B. Nebendahl, C.
Kessler, M. Mehring, A. Dulcic, M. Pozek, and D. Paar, Phys. Rev. B
**58**, 11652 (1998). * [20]_Microwave Studies of High Temperature
Superconductors_, Vols. 17 and 18 of _Studies of High Temperature
Superconductors_, edited by A. Narlikar (Nova Science, New York,
1996). * [21] P. B. Allen, H. Berger, O. Chauvet, L. Forro, T. Jarlborg,
A. Junod, B. Revaz, and G. Santi, Phys. Rev. B **53**, 4393 (1996). *
[22] G. Cao, S. McCall, M. Shepard, J. E. Crow, and R. P. Guertin, Phys.
Rev. B **56**, 321 (1997). * [23] A. M. Portis, _Electrodynamics of
High-Temperature Superconductor,_ Vol. 48 of Lecture Notes in Physics
(World Scientific, Singapore, 1993). * [24] M. Pozek, A. Dulcic, and B.
Rakvin, Physica C **197**, 175 (1992). * [25] U. Krey, Int. J. Magn.
**4**, 153 (1973). * [26] Q. Li, K. W. Rigby, and M. S. Rzchowski, Phys.
Rev. B **39**, 6607 (1989).
