# Origin of the superconductivity in the Y-Sr-Ru-O and Y-Sr-Cu-O systems

Eduard Galstyan,¹ Yuyi Xue,¹ Mikko Iliev,¹ Yanyi Sun,¹ and Ching-Wu
Chu^(1, 2, 3)

¹Department of Physics and Texas Center for Superconductivity,
University of Houston, Houston, Texas 77204-5002, USA

²Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, 1 Cyclotron Road, Berkeley,
California 94720, USA

³Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, Hong Kong, China

Received 16 April 2007; published 3 July 2007

###### Abstract

We report on the structural, magnetic, and Raman-scattering studies of
double-perovskite structure Sr₂YRu_(1 − x)Cu_(x)O_(6 − δ) systems made
by systematic synthesis processes with various numbers of doping
concentrations and sintering temperatures. We observed different
behaviors resulting from the different thermal treatments. In
particular, superconductivity in Cu-doped Sr₂YRuO₆ has been observed
only for partially melted ceramic materials. We show that
superconductivity is associated with the 1:2:3 phase (YSr₂Cu₃O), similar
to that of Y-Sr-Cu-O samples sintered at high temperature.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.76.014501 PACS number(s): 74.62.Bf, 74.70.Pq,
74.72.−h, 74.72.Bk 16 April 2007; published 3 July 2007

## I Introduction

The nature and origin of the superconductivity (SC) in perovskite-based
cuprates have attracted much interest among researchers in recent years.
The common features of the high-temperature superconducting cuprates are
sequences of CuO₂ layers that upon sufficient doping become
superconducting. It has been one major challenge to search for the
possibility of finding other superconductors that contain no Cu-O
planes. Initially, this interest was caused by the discovery of exotic
SC in Sr₂RuO₄.¹ Later, it was found that other ruthenates have very
interesting magnetic and electric properties. Among them, there has been
particular interest in the Ru-based double-perovskite structure Sr₂YRuO₆
systems with minor Cu doping on Ru ion sites.² ⁻ ⁵ The parent insulator
compounds Sr₂YRuO₆ can be obtained from the itinerant ferromagnet SrRuO₃
by replacing each second Ru ion with a nonmagnetic Y ion.⁶ ⁻ ⁹ The
antiferromagnetic (AFM) transition temperature (T_(N)) is 26 K and there
is a spin-flop-like transition below T_(M)≈ 17 K.⁸ An effective
paramagnetic moment μ_(eff) was found to be 3.13 μ_(B)/Ru⁵⁺, which was
attributed a spin-orbit coupling.⁷ Below T_(N)=26 K, the face-centered
cubic lattice of Ru⁵⁺ spins experiences ordering to produce a type-I AFM
structure with a weak ferromagnetic component.^(8, 9) In this structure,
the (001) ferromagnetic (FM) planes exhibit antiparallel ordering along
the c axis. Intriguingly, SC has been reported in
Sr₂YRu_(1 − x)Cu_(x)O_(6 − δ) ceramic materials with an onset transition
temperature of T_(C)≈ 45−49 K for x=0.03−0.50.² ⁻ ⁵ Addressing the
question of the nature of SC, Dow and Harshman.^(5, 10, 11) proposed a
model in which superconducting condensation occurs in the SrO planes
with the (Ru_(1 − x)Cu_(x))O planes magnetically ordered. While the
model appears to be in disagreement with many research works,¹² ⁻ ¹⁶ the
exact reason for SC in Y-Sr-Ru-O system is still uncertain. In order to
gain additional insight into the superconducting properties of Cu-doped
Sr₂YRuO₆ ceramic compounds, we present the results of magnetic
measurements and Raman-scattering investigation. The crystal structure,
lattice parameters, and detailed microstructure were analyzed by x-ray
powder diffraction (XRD) method and scanning electron microscopy (SEM).
In this work, we provide experimental evidence that the SC behavior of
these materials is due to a minor impurity phase with the stoichiometry
of YSr₂Cu₃O_(t) (YSCO). We show that both superconductivity and YSCO
grains appear only for synthesis temperatures higher than a
local-melting temperature identifiable by the differential thermal
analyzer (DTA) trace. In addition, the YSCO grains, which are
thermodynamically unstable under ambient pressure, appear within dense
surroundings, where the melting indications are obvious. The stresses
during the solidification seem to play roles. These may also explain the
earlier reports of trace SC in Y-Sr-Cu-O samples synthesized at ambient
pressure.^(17, 18)

## II Experimental Details

Ceramic samples with nominal compositions Sr₂YRu_(1 − x)Cu_(x)O_(6 − δ)
(x=0.0,0.1,0.5) and Y-Sr-Cu-O (YSrCuO₇, YSr₂Cu₂O_(r),
Y_(1.5)Sr₂Cu₂O_(t)) were prepared by a solid-state reaction technique.
Prescribed amounts of Y₂O₃, SrCO₂, RuO₂, and CuO were mixed, pressed
into pellets, and preheated at 1000 ^(∘)C for 1 day (850 ^(∘)C for
Y-Sr-Cu-O). The first and second batches of
Sr₂YRu_(1 − x)Cu_(x)O_(6 − δ) were cooled, reground, and sintered under
an oxygen atmosphere for 1 day at 1290 and 1360 ^(∘)C, respectively, and
finally the samples were slowly cooled at 15 ^(∘)C/h to room
temperature. Some of the Y-Sr-Cu-O calcinated powders were pellet-ized
and heated at 990 ^(∘)C for 3 days under ambient pressure in an oxygen
atmosphere. Other Y-Sr-Cu-O calcinated materials were reheated at 1130
^(∘)C for 6 h in flowing oxygen. XRD was used to identify the bulk
phase, approximate composition, and lattice parameters. Diffraction
patterns were obtained with Cu Kα radiation (wavelength λ =0.154178 nm)
over a range of 15^(∘)< 2 θ< 80^(∘) using 0.04^(∘) steps. The
microstructure and the phase integrity of the materials were
investigated by SEM and by a Genesis energy dispersive x-ray analysis
(EDAX) device attached to the SEM. The melting temperature was
determined with a DTA. Magnetic susceptibility data were obtained with a
superconducting quantum interference device magnetometer. Polarized
Raman spectra were collected under microscope (focus spot size 1−3 μm,
λ_(exc)=488 nm) from the polished surface of the bulk materials at room
temperature.

## III Results and discussion

### Sr₂YRu_(1 − x)Cu_(x)O_(6 − δ)

Figure 1 shows the x-ray diffraction patterns of
Sr₂YRu_(1 − x)Cu_(x)O_(6 − δ) for x=0,0.1, and 0.5. The major
reflections can be indexed with orthorhombic symmetry. Within the
instrumental resolution of a few percent, the absence of impurity lines
for x=0 and 0.1 shows high phase purity and suggests the existence of
Ru-Cu solid solution in this double-perovskite component. The presence
of impurity peaks at x =0.5 (marked with asterisks), on the other hand,
indicates a Cu solubility limit below 0.5, although it was impossible to
identify the corresponding phases due to the low intensity of
diffraction data. Comparing the peak intensities, we roughly estimate
that the secondary phases occupy less than 20

Figure 2 shows the result of DTA analysis of multiphase
Sr₂YRu_(0.5)Cu_(0.5)O_(6 − δ) compound (powder) with increasing
temperature in air. Endothermic peaks appear near 1130 and 1275 ^(∘)C.
The Cu-rich sample sintered at 1360 ^(∘)C became harder and looked
partially melted at the bottom. The temperature dependence of the dc
magnetization of Sr₂YRu_(1 − x)Cu_(x)O_(6 − δ) (x=0.1 and x=0.5) samples
measured at 7 Oe and the real ac susceptibility curve (at H_(dc)=0 Oe,
H_(ac)=3 Oe) of Sr₂YRu_(0.5)Cu_(0.5)O_(6 − δ) are presented in Fig. 3.

The general behavior of the dc magnetic susceptibility curves [Fig.
3(a)] of the Sr₂YRu_(0.5)Cu_(0.1)O_(6 − δ) sample is very similar to
that of the parent compound Sr₂YRuCuO₆.[8, 9] The system orders AFM at
T_(N)=25−30 K and yet showson-spicuously weak ferromagnetism by large
irreversibility. For x=0.5, a similar magnetic bump at 25 K is observed.
The zero field cooled (ZFC) and field cooled (FC) curves, however, split
at higher temperature ∼58 K [Fig. 3(a), inset]. These results strongly
suggest that the magnetic structure remains unchanged for Cu-doped
samples and it is consistent with data published in the literature.[2,
5, 11] In all the samples tested, no trace of superconductivity has been
observed for x=0.1, in rough agreement with previous reports.[2, 5, 11]
The situation is different in the case of x=0.5. The negative signals in
the ZFC curve at 5 K, which correspond to a screened volume fraction of
4

Figure 3: (a) ZFC (solid symbols) and FC (open symbols) magnetization
curves for Sr₂YRu_(1 − x)Cu_(x)O_(6 − δ) with x=0.1 (triangle symbols)
and x=0.5 (square symbols). Inset: ZFC and FC magnetization curves
between 28 and 70 K. (b) The real part of the ac susceptibility (at
H_(dc)=0 Oe and H_(ac)=3 Oe) of Sr₂YRu_(0.5)Cu_(0.5)O_(6 − δ) The inset
shows the onset of superconductivity in an expanded scale.

Figure 2: DTA curves for Sr₂YRu_(1 − x)Cu_(x)O_(6 − δ) measured in an
increasing temperature process in air.

part χ^(′) of the ac susceptibility [Fig. 3(b)]. It is interesting to
note that the onset of the SC occurs at 64 K, as indicated by the
downturns in both the FC magnetization (flux expulsion) and the χ^(′).
The magnetization M(H) plots at 5 K of the compounds with x=0.1 and 0.5
up to 3500 Oe and 5 T are shown, respectively, in Fig. 4 and its inset.
The virgin curve for the x=0.5 sample synthesized at 1360 ^(∘)C clearly
shows a SC signature. The diamagnetic signal starts decreasing above
applied fields of 280 Oe, and turns to zero at 1800 Oe. The compound
seems to have a lower critical field (H_(c1)) of around 280 Oe. The
shielding fraction (SF) deduced from the isothermal M(H) curve is ∼1.5

To explore the origin of this minor superconductivity, the grain
morphology of the polished Sr₂YRu_(0.5)Cu_(0.5)O_(6 − δ) sample, which
shows the clear superconducting signal, was determined by SEM. Two types
of granular structures can be clearly identified, although both have a
similar grain size of 10−13 μm. One type (marked as I in Fig. 5)
consists of more or less round grains with many voids along the grain
boundaries. This is rather similar to those of the samples synthesized
at lower temperature, which is also typically characteristic of ceramics
below the melting temperature. Another type (marked as II), however,
consists of thick wavering sheets with well defined intergrain
boundaries characterized by sharp edges. We interpret these as evidence
of partial melting during synthesis. It is worth noting that there are
practically no voids along the type-II grain boundaries. EDAX further
reveals a distinct difference between the two types. For the type-I
grains, no systematic intragrain stoichiometry variation is detected
although the ratio Sr:Y:Ru:Cu does vary from one grain to another: a
normalized ratio of 2:1.2:1.3:0.4 represents most of the grains. Some
spherical grains with a poor Cu concentration also have been observed.
The typical normalized stoichiometric ratio of these particles is
2:1.1:1.4:0.01, which is similar to the structure of the parent Sr₂YRuO₆
compound. In addition to the major phase in
Sr₂YRu_(0.5)Cu_(0.5)O_(6 − δ) we found that the type-II grains
correspond to a secondary phase with a general stoichiometric relation
of 1.3:2.3:7.0.2 (Y:Sr:Cu:Ru), which is close to the 1:2:3 phase and
consistent with YSCO. Apparently, this secondary phase for x=0.5 is
below 5

### B. Y-Sr-Cu-O system

In an attempt to understand the appearance of YSCO under ambient
pressure, we investigated the Y-Sr-Cu-O system, particularly the samples
with nominal compositions YSrCuO${}_{\rm{r}}$, YSr₂Cu₂O_(r), and
Y_(1.5)Sr₂Cu₂O_(r). Superconductivity was used as the experimental
indicator of the YSCO phase. In general, it is believed that pure YSCO
without chemical doping can be synthesized only under high pressure in
the temperature range 1050−1130 ^(∘)C.[22, 23, 24] On the other hand,

Figure 4: M(H) plot at 5 K for Sr₂YRu_(1 − x)Cu_(x)O_(6 − δ) with x=0.1
(open circles) and x=0.5 (solid circles); the applied fields are in the
range −3500 Oe<H<3500 Oe. Inset: M(H) plot in the range −5 T<H<5 T.

Figure 5: SEM images of Sr₂YRu_(0.5)Cu_(0.5)O_(6 − δ) The spherical
grains with structurally intact boundaries are marked as type I. The
partially melted grains without intergrain voids are marked as type II.

trace SC has been observed in a multiphase sample with nominal
composition YSrCuO_(t) synthesized under ambient pressure above 1200
^(∘)C.[18, 25] In the absence of detailed structural analysis, the
authors have tentatively assigned the 80 K SC phase to the YSCO and AFM
transition to Y₂Cu₂O₅ magnetic phase around 14 K. Our magnetization data
(Fig. 7) of multiphase Y-Sr-Cu-O compounds closely resemble the earlier
reported results.[18, 25] Namely, all Y-Sr-Cu-O materials sintered at
1130 ^(∘)C show similar onsets of SC. The estimated SF fraction for all
SC samples at 5 K is around 1

EDAX, similar to that of Sr₂YRu_(0.5)Cu_(0.5)O_(6 − δ) samples,
indicates the presence of the YSCO structure only in samples sintered at
high temperature. The internal stresses during the solidification,
therefore, may offer a natural interpretation for the formation of the
YSCO phase.

## IV Conclusions

We have shown that superconductivity in Sr₂YRu_(0.5)Cu_(0.5)O_(6 − δ)
and various Y-Sr-Cu-O systems appears only in partially melted samples
under ambient pressure. The superconducting behavior is tentatively
attributed to a minor YSr₂Cu₃O_(t) phase, which occurs on grain
boundaries in the first system due to the depletion and redistribution
of Ru in partially melted grains, and occurs in the latter system due to
the internal stress during solidification.

## Acknowledgments

The work in Houston is supported in part by the T. L. L. Temple
Foundation, the John J. and Rebecca Moores Endowment, and the State of
Texas through the Texas Center for Superconductivity at the University
of Houston, and at Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory by the Director, Office
of Science, Office of Basic Energy Sciences, Division of Materials
Sciences and Engineering of the U.S. Department of Energy under Contract
No. DE-AC03-76SF00098.

Figure 8: SEM image of (a) SC (sintered at 1130 ^(∘)C) and (b) non-SC
(sintered at 990 ^(∘)C) YSrCuO_(t) samples (nominal composition).

Figure 6: Polarized Raman spectra of Sr₂YRu_(0.5)Cu_(0.5)O_(6 − δ)
(nominal composition) as obtained from type-I and type-II grains at room
temperature.

Figure 7: The real ac susceptibility curves (at H_(dc)=0 Oe and H_(ac)=3
Oe) of nominal compounds YSrCuO_(t), YSr₂Cu₂O_(t) and Y_(1.5)Sr₂Cu₂O_(t)
Inset: ZFC and FC magnetization curves of Y_(1.5)Sr₂Cu₂O_(t) (nominal
composition) at applied field 7 Oe.

## References

* [1] Y. Maeno, H. Hashimoto, K. Yoshida, S. Nishizaki, T. Fujita, J. G.
Bednorz, and F. Lichtenberg, Nature (London) **372**, 532 (1994). * [2]
M. K. Wu, D. Y. Chen, F. Z. Chien, S. R. Sheen, D. C. Ling, C. Y. Tai,
G. Y. Tseng, D. H. Chen, and F. C. Zhang, Z. Phys. B: Condens. Matter
**102**, 37 (1997). * [3] H. A. Blackstead, J. D. Dow, D. R. Harshman,
M. J. DeMarco, M. K. Wu, D. Y. Chen, F. Z. Chien, D. B. Pulling, W. J.
Kossler, A. J. Greer, C. E. Stronach, E. Koster, B. Hitti, M. Haka, and
S. Toorognian, Eur. Phys. J. B **15**, 649 (2000). * [4] J. D. Dow, H.
A. Blackstead, and D. R. Harshman, Physica C **364-365**, 74 (2001). *
[5] H. A. Blackstead, J. D. Dow, D. R. Harshman, W. B. Yelon, M. X.
Chen, M. K. Wu, D. Y. Chen, F. Z. Chien, and D. B. Pulling, Phys. Rev. B
**63**, 214412 (2001). * [6] P. C. Donohue and E. L. McCann, Mater. Res.
Bull. **12**, 519 (1977). * [7] R. Greatrex, N. N. Greenwood, M. Lal,
and I. Fernandez, J. Solid State Chem. **30**, 137 (1979). * [8] P. D.
Battle and W. J. Macklin, J. Solid State Chem. **54**, 245 (1984). * [9]
G. Cao, Y. Xin, C. S. Alexander, and J. E. Crow, Phys. Rev. B **63**,
184432 (2001). * [10] J. Dow and D. Harshman, Int. J. Mod. Phys. B
**17**, 3310 (2003). * [11] D. R. Harshman, W. J. Kossler, A. J. Greer,
D. R. Noakes, C. E. Stronach, E. Koster, M. K. Wu, F. Z. Chien, J. P.
Franck, I. Isaac, and J. D. Dow, Phys. Rev. B **67**, 054509 (2003). *
[12] J. D. Dow, H. A. Blackstead, Z. F. Ren, and D. Z. Wang, JETP Lett.
**80**, 190 (2004). * [13] C. Bernhard, J. L. Tallon, Ch. Niedermayer,
Th. Blasius, A. Golnik, E. Brucher, R. K. Kremer, D. R. Noakes, C. E.
Stronach, and E. J. Ansaldo, Phys. Rev. B **59**, 14099 (1999). * [14]
W. E. Pickett, R. Weht, and A. B. Shick, Phys. Rev. Lett. **83**, 3713
(1999). * [15] B. Lorenz, R. L. Meng, J. Cmaidalka, Y. S. Wang, J.
Lenzi, Y. Y. Xue, and C. W. Chu, Physica C **363**, 251 (2001). * [16]
P. W. Klamut, B. Dabrowski, S. Kolesnik, M. Maxwell, and J. Mais, Phys.
Rev. B **63**, 224512 (2001). * [17] T. Motohashi, A. Yoshikawa, J.
Shimoyama, and K. Kishio, Physica C **282-287**, 515 (1997). * [18] M.
K. Wu, J. R. Ashburn, C. A. Higgins, B. H. Loo, D. H. Burns, A. Ibrahim,
T. D. Rolin, F. Z. Chien, and C. Y. Huang, Phys. Rev. B **37**, 9765
(1988). * [19] C. A. Georg, P. Triggs, and F. Levy, Mater. Res. Bull.
**17**, 105 (1982). * [20] H. L. Liu, J. L. Her, C. C. Chen, S. M. Rao,
M. K. Wu, W. F. Hsueh, C. C. Chi, and F. Z. Chien, J. Phys. Chem. Solids
**67**, 302 (2006). * [21] H.-G. Lee, A. P. Litvinchuk, M. V. Abrashev,
M. N. Iliev, S. H. Xu, and C. W. Chu, J. Phys. Chem. Solids **59**, 1994
(1998). * [22] B. Okai, Jpn. J. Appl. Phys., Part 2 **29**, L2180
(1990). * [23] A. Ono, Physica C **198**, 287 (1992). * [24] E. Gilioli,
P. G. Radaelli, A. Gauzzi, F. Licci, and M. Marezio, Physica C
**341-348**, 605 (2000). * [25] R. Suryanarayanan, S. B. Baliga, A. L.
Jain, and O. Gorochov, Mod. Phys. Lett. B **4**, 159 (1990).
