High-T_(c) superconductivity in three-fluorite-layer copper oxides. II.
(Cu,Mo)Sr₂(Ce,Y)₃Cu₂O_(11 + δ)

Y. Morita,¹ T. Nagai,² Y. Matsui,² H. Yamauchi,¹ and M. Karppinen^(1, *)

¹Materials and Structures Laboratory, Tokyo Institute of Technology,
Yokohama 226-8503, Japan

²National Institute for Materials Science, 1-1 Namiki, Tsukuba, Ibaraki
305-0044, Japan

###### Abstract

We have synthesized high-quality samples of the _s_=3 member of the
(Cu,Mo)-12s2 homologous series of layered copper oxides. The
(Cu,Mo)-12s2 phase forms as a single phase for the cation composition
(Cu_(0.75)Mo_(0.25)Sr₂(Ce,Y)₂(Ce_(0.65)Y_(0.33))Cu₂O_(11 + δ) through
solid-state synthesis in air, but the samples as synthesized are not
superconductive. Superconductivity is induced in the air-synthesized
samples by means of high-pressure oxygenation carried out at 5 GPa and
500^(∘)C in the presence of Ag₂O₂ as an excess oxygen source. With
increasing ratio of Ag₂O₂ to the (Cu,Mo)-12s2 phase the _c_-axis lattice
parameter gradually decreases and T_(c) increases. The highest T_(c)
value of 53 K reached for samples oxygenated in the presence of 100 mol

pacs: DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.70.174515 + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL
REVIEW B **70**, 174515 (2004)

## I Introduction

The known high-T_(c) superconductors and related layered copper-oxide
phases may all be imagined as members of two structure categories:
category A comprises the phases that consist of perovskite (P) and
rocksalt (RS) type layers piled up with a sequence of
AO[RS]-(MO_(18, δm))_(m)[P/RS]-AO[RS]-CuO₂[P]-(Q-CuO₂)_(n − 1)[P],
whereas the category B phases contain additional fluorite (F) type
layers inserted between two adjacent CuO₂ planes, i.e.,
AO[RS]-(MO_(18, δm))_(m)[P/RS]-AO[RS]-CuO₂[P]-[B-
(Q-B)_(n − 1)][F]-CuO₂[P]^(1, 2) From the given layer sequences the
chemical formulas of the phases of the two categories, A and B, are
derived at M_(m)A₂Q_(m − 1)Cu_(n)O_(m + 2s2nδ) and
M_(m)A₂B₂Cu_(14s)O_(m + 4s4 + 2nδ), respectively, or in short,
M-m^((A))(2n − 1)n and M-m^((A))(2k)s(1 + k)². Then, a group of phases
for which the AO-(MO_(18, δm))_(m)-AO portion is common but the number
of CuO₂ planes n (category A), or the number of fluorite layers s
(category B), varies, comprises a "homologous series".²

The _s_=1 phases of category B may be equally well imagined as the
corresponding _n_=2 phases of category A. Many of these phases are
well-established superconductors such as CuBa₂YCu₂O_(7δ, δ) or
Cu-1(^(18h))212 (or "Y-123"). Among the (_p_-type doped³) _s_=2 phases
of category B, Cu(Ba,R)₂(Ce,R)₂Cu₂O_(9δ, δ) (_R_=rare-earth element) or
Cu-1(^(18h, δ))222 was the first to show superconductivity. The highest
T_(c) of 43 K was achieved for an _R_=Eu sample synthesized under
ambient pressure but oxygenated under elevated O₂ pressures.⁴ For these
first Cu-122 samples with Ba as the main _A_-site constituent, the
apparent role of the trivalent R substituent was to stabilize the
Cu-1222 structure. With Sr at the A site, the Cu-1222 structure is
formed even without "structure-stabilizing" substitutions, viz.,
CuSr₂(Ce,Y)₂Cu₂O_(9δ, δ)⁵ though only under high O₂ pressures. Note that
at ambient pressure the (Cu,Ce)Sr₂(Ce,Y)₂Cu₂O_(9δ, δ) phase rather than
CuSr₂(Ce,Y)₂Cu₂O_(9δ, δ) forms in the Cu-Sr-Ce-Y-O system.⁶ Actually the
(Cu,Ce)Sr₂(Ce,Y)₂Cu₂O_(9δ, δ) phase is just an example of the
(Cu,M^(′))-1(^(18h))22 phases stabilized as a result of partial
substitution of the charge-reservoir Cu either by other metal atoms,
i.e., M^(′)=Ti, V, Cr, Fe, Co, Ga, Ge, Mo, W, Re, Ce, etc.,^(7, −10) or
by oxy-anions, such as BO₄³⁻, SO₄²⁻, and PO₄³ ⁻ ¹¹ For the Cu-12s2
series the third (_s_=3) member has been stabilized as well, both in
multiphase samples of CuSr₂(Ce,Ho)₃Cu₂O_(11 + δ) and nearly single-phase
samples of (Cu,M^(′))Sr₂(Ce,Ho)₃Cu₂O_(11h, δ) (M^(′) =Pb, Fe,
Al).¹² ⁻ ¹⁴ None of these _s_=3 samples, however, showed
superconductivity.

In the present study, by taking advantage of the high-pressure
oxygenation (HPO) technique previously utilized in "superconductorizing"
the CoSr₂YCu₂O_(7 + δ) phase,¹⁵ we have been able to induce
superconductivity in
(Cu_(0.75)Mo_(0.25))Sr₂(Ce_(0.65)Y_(0.33))₅Cu₂O_(11 + δ) samples of the
(Cu,Mo)-1(^(18h))232 phase. Moreover, the T_(c) value has been
successfully controlled (in terms of the amount of Ag₂O₂ used as an
oxygen source in the HPO treatment) up to 53 K–just to exceed those
reported for various Cu-1222-structured compounds.

## II Experimental

A (Cu,Mo)-1(^(18h))232 master sample of
(Cu_(0.75)Mo_(0.25))Sr₂(Ce_(0.67)Y_(0.33))₅Cu₂O_(11 + δ) was synthesized
by solid-state reaction from an appropriate mixture of high-purity
powders of CuO, MoO₃, SrCO₃, CeO₂, and Y₂O₃. The mixed powder was
calcined at 950^(∘)C and sintered at 1020^(∘)C in air with several
intermediate friendings. Portions of this as-air-synthesized (AS) sample
were then high-pressure oxygenated at 5 GPa and 500^(∘)C for 30 min in a
cubic-anvil-type high-pressure apparatus in the presence of Ag₂O₂ as an
excess-oxygen source. The amount of Ag₂O₂ mixed with the
(Cu_(0.75)Mo_(0.25))Sr₂(Ce_(0.67)Y_(0.33))₅Cu₂O_(11 + δ) powder was
systematically varied from 12.5 to 100 mol

Powder x-ray diffraction measurements (Rigaku: RINT2550VK/U; Cu _K_(α)_
radiation) were performed to check the phase purity and determine the
lattice parameters of the samples. The AS and HPO-100 samples were
further characterized by high-resolution transmission-electron
microscopy (HRTEM) and electron diffraction (ED) techniques using an
ultrahigh-voltage transmission electron microscope (Hitachi: H-1500)
operated at an accelerating voltage of 820 kV. For these experiments a
specimen was prepared by crushing a portion of the sample into fine
fragments, which were ultrasonically dispersed in CCl4 and transferred
to carbon microgrids.

The amount of "excess" or removable oxygen was estimated for the samples
on the basis of thermogravimetric [(TG); MAC Science: TG/DTA 2000S] runs
carried out for a   10 mg specimen in four steps: (1) heating in N2 at a
rate of 1 degC/min up to 700 degC, (2) cooling down to room temperature
in N2 at a rate of 20 degC/min, (3) heating in O2 at a rate of 1
degC/min to 900 degC, and (4) cooling to room temperature at a rate of 1
degC/min. For the AS sample, all four steps were employed, whereas the
HPO samples were investigated only up to the second step.

Superconductivity and magnetic properties were measured for all the
samples down to 5 K in both field-cooled (FC) and zero-field-cooled
(ZFC) modes under 10 Oe using a
superconducting-quantum-interference-device (SQUID) magnetometer
(Quantum Design: MPMS-XL). Resistivity measurements were carried out
using a four-point-probe apparatus (Quantum Design: PPMS).

## III Results and Discussion

From the x-ray powder diffraction patterns shown in Fig. 1 for the
(Cu0.75Mo0.25)Sr2(Ce0.6Y0.33)Cu2O11+_d_ samples, both the
as-air-synthesized (AS) and the high-pressure oxygenated (HPO) samples
were confirmed to be of high quality; the only visible impurity
diffraction peaks were due to a trace amount of nonreacted CeO2 (for
samples in which the amount of Ag2O2 used as an excess-oxygen source in
HPO did not exceed 75 mol

The diffraction peaks originating from the (Cu,Mo)-1[(S)232 phase were
readily indexed with space group P4/_mmm_.13 The expected crystal
structure was further confirmed for the AS and HPO-100 samples by HRTEM
and ED. In Fig. 2 shown is an HRTEM image for the HPO-100 sample. The
layer repetition of
SrO-(Cu,Mo)O1+_d_-SrO-CuO2-(Ce,Y)-O2-(Ce,Y)-O2-(Ce,Y)-CuO2 that is
characteristic to the (Cu,Mo)-1[(S)232 structure is clearly revealed. No
sign of extensive stacking faults is seen. From the ED patterns (Fig. 3)
taken for both of the two samples, AS and HPO-100, with the incident
electron beam along the [001], [010], and [1-10] directions, it is
concluded that the high-pressure oxygenation does not change the basic
structure of the (Cu,Mo)-1[(S)232 phase. Moreover, the tetragonal unit
cell with the _a:c_ lattice parameter ratio approximately at 1:4 is
confirmed from the ED data.

In Fig. 4 we show the evolution of the lattice parameters a and c upon
the high-pressure oxygenation as refined from the x-ray diffraction
data. With an increasing amount of Ag2O2 used in the high-pressure
oxygenation, the _a_-axis lattice parameter seems to remain quite
constant, whereas the

Figure 2: HRTEM image for the HPO-100 sample.

Figure 1: X-ray diffraction patterns for the synthesized
(Cu0.75Mo0.25)Sr2(Ce0.6Y0.33)3Cu2O11+_d_ samples. The indices given are
for the (Cu,Mo)-1232 structure on the basis of space group P4/_mmm_.

c-axis lattice parameter gets systematically shortened. The shortening
of the c parameter occurs rather rapidly up to 25 mol

To gain a better understanding of the changes in oxygen content upon the
HPO, we compared the amount of depleted oxygen, Δδ, upon an N2 annealing
up to 700^(∘)C carried out in a thermobalance under the same conditions
for both the AS and the HPO samples. First shown in Fig. 5(a) are the
deoxygenation (in N2) and backoxygenation (in O2) TG curves for the AS
sample. Upon annealing in N2 the deoxygenation occurs in three steps
with onset temperatures about 200^(∘)C, 370^(∘)C, and 420^(∘)C. Such a
multistep behavior suggests that accordingly the bonding strength of the
oxygen atoms being depleted slightly changes, though not yet confirmed
from a detailed crystal structure analysis. The overall weight loss
corresponds to ∼0.32 oxygen atoms per
(Cu0.7sMo0.2s)Sr2(Ce0.67Y0.3s))Cu2O11+δ formula unit, i.e.,
$\Delta\delta_{\rm AS}$=0.32. Then upon cycling in O2, oxygen is
incorporated into the phase again such that the original oxygen content
of the AS sample is not only completely recovered but even slightly
exceeded. (This is natural, since the TG annealing was done in O2, not
in air.) In Fig. 5(b) we show two representative TG curves recorded in
N2 for the HPO samples, i.e., HPO-25 and HPO-75, together with that for
the AS sample. The total oxygen loss is much larger for the HPO samples
than for the AS sample, presumably due to the higher oxygen contents of
these samples in comparison to that of the AS sample. However, it should
be noted that for the HPO samples the total oxygen evolution consists of
contributions from both the (Cu,Mo)-1(S6)232 phase and Ag2O. From
previous studies [16, 17, 18] it is well known that the sharp weight and
oxygen loss about 280∼ 330^(∘)C (only faintly distinguished for HPO-25
but profoundly seen for HPO-75) is due to the reduction of Ag2O to Ag.
We therefore subtract that from the total oxygen evolution to estimate
the amount of removable oxygen in the (Cu,Mo)-1(S6)232 phase for the
HPO-25 and HPO-75 samples at $\Delta\delta_{\rm HPO-25}$=0.84 and
$\Delta\delta_{\rm HPO-75}$=0.91, respectively. Now comparing the values
of $\Delta\delta_{\rm AS}$ (=0.32), $\Delta\delta_{\rm HPO-25}$ (=0.84),
and $\Delta\delta_{\rm HPO-75}$ (=0.91) it is revealed that upon the
high-pressure oxygenation the oxygen content of the (Cu,Mo)-1232 phase
indeed increases considerably, i.e., by 0.84−0.32=0.52 oxygen atoms for
HPO-25 and 0.91−0.32=0.59 for HPO-75. From Fig. 5(b) it may also be
concluded that the onset temperatures for the oxygen-loss steps are
shifted to somewhat lower temperatures for the HPO samples in comparison
to those for the AS sample as an indication of weaker bonding

Figure 4: Evolution of lattice parameters, a and c, upon increasing the
amount of Ag2O2 in the high-pressure oxygenation.

Figure 5: TG curves for (a) N2 annealing (solid line) and subsequent O2
annealing (broken line), of the AS sample, and (b) for the N2 annealing
of the AS (dotted line), HPO-25 (broken line), and HPO-75 (solid line)
samples.

Figure 3: ED patterns for the AS (a) and HPO-100 (b) samples with the
incident beam along the directions, [001], [010], and [1 – 10] (from the
top to the bottom).

in the HPO samples. Moreover, it should be noted that taking an analogy
to the situation seen for the related Co-1(Sr)232 phase [19] it is
appropriate to assume that the oxygen-content variation in
(Cu,Mo)-1(^([86])232 occurs within the (Cu_(0.75)Mo_(0.25))O_(1 + δ)
layer only.

Magnetization measurements were carried out for all the samples. The AS
sample did not show any sign of superconductivity (see Fig. 6). For the
HPO samples superconductivity appeared when the amount of Ag₂O₂ (used as
an oxygen source) was 25 mol

In Fig. 8 we plot the value of T_(c) against the amount of Ag₂O₂ used in
the HPO for our (Cu_(0.75)Mo_(0.25))Sr₂(Ce_(0.67)Y_(0.33))₅Cu₂O_(11 + δ)
samples of the (Cu,Mo)-1(^([86]))232 phase. It is seen that T_(c) first
increases strongly with an increasing amount of Ag₂O₂ and then saturates
beyond ∼50 mol

Figure 8: T_(c) values for the present (Cu,Mo)-1(^([86])232 samples
plotted against the amount of Ag₂O₂ used for the high-pressure
oxygenation.

Figure 6: Temperature dependence of magnetization for the AS sample
(upper) and the HPO-50 sample (lower).

Figure 7: Temperature dependence of resistivity for the HPO-50 sample.

liminary efforts to tune the Y content from that of x=0.33 all ended up
with multiphase samples. From the comparison of the maximum T_(c) values
among the three members of the $({\rm Cu,Mo})$-1${}^{({\rm Sr})}$2s2
homologous series (Fig. 9), we conclude that even though the values
reached for the higher members are considerably lower than those
obtained for the s=1 phase (88 K), the trend of decreasing T_(c) with
increasing s, i.e., thickness of the fluorite-structured layer-block
separating the two ${\rm CuO_{2}}$ planes, does not continue beyond s=2,
but rather the T_(c) value recorded here for the s=3 phase (53 K)
slightly exceeds the one previously reported for the s=2 phase (50
K).[8] We also acknowledge that the purely Mo-based
${\rm MoSr}_{2}R{\rm Cu}_{2}{\rm O}_{7+\delta}$ (s=1) and
${\rm MoSr}_{2}({\rm Ce},R)_{2}{\rm Cu}_{2}{\rm O}_{9+\delta}$ (s=2)
phases were recently high-lighted due to their interesting interplays
between magnetism and superconductivity.[21, 22] So far the
${\rm MoSr}_{2}({\rm Ce},{\rm Y})_{3}{\rm Cu}_{2}{\rm O}_{11+\delta}$
(s=3) phase has not been synthesized.

Finally we emphasize that the successful induction of high-T_(c)
superconductivity in the three-fluorite-layer copper-oxide
phases,[23]M-1232, potentially provides us with possibilities in terms
of "intrinsic atomic-layer engineering".[24] Generally–as a consequence
of its layered crystal structure–a high-T_(c) superconductor may be
considered as a stack of intrinsic
superconductor-insulator-superconductor Josephson junctions.[25, 26] Now
we have superconductors for which the spacing (insulating) block between
two superconductive ${\rm CuO_{2}}$ planes (i.e., basal planes of the
${\rm CuO_{5}}$ square-pyramid layers) has been extended from those of
the single R-cation layer in M-1212 and the "double-fluorite-layer"
block in M-1222 to the 8−9 A-thick "triple-fluorite-layer" block in
M-1232.

## IV Conclusion

The 1232-structured phase with Cu as the main charge-reservoir
constituent had previously been detected in multiphase samples only. In
the present work samples of the phase were obtained in essentially
single-phase form for the composition,
$({\rm Cu}_{0.75}{\rm Mo}_{0.25}){\rm Sr}_{2}({\rm Ce}_{0.67}{\rm Y}_{0.33})_{3} {\rm Cu}_{2}{\rm O}_{11+\delta}$
through ambient-pressure solid-state synthesis. Moreover, we
successfully induced bulk superconductivity in the
$({\rm Cu},{\rm Mo})$-1${}^{({\rm Sr})}$232 samples by loading the phase
with ∼0.5 additional oxygen atoms by means of a
high-pressure-oxygenation technique. The highest T_(c) value of 53 K
reached in this work for the $({\rm Cu},{\rm Mo})$-1${}^{({\rm Sr})}$232
phase exceeded the value previously reported for the
$({\rm Cu},{\rm Mo})$-1${}^{({\rm Sr})}$222 phase [which has a shorter
inter-${\rm CuO_{2}}$-plane distance than the
$({\rm Cu},{\rm Mo})$-1${}^{({\rm Sr})}$232 phase].

###### Acknowledgements.

This work was supported by Grants-in-aid for Scientific Research (Nos.
15206002 and 15206071) from the Japan Society for the Promotion of
Science, and the Nanotechnology Support Project of the MEXT, Japan.

## References

* [26] * * [15] Y. Morita, H. Yamauchi, and M. Karppinen, Solid State
Commun. **127**, 493 (2003). * [16] T. Ito, H. Suematsu, K. Isawa, M.
Karppinen, and H. Yamauchi, Physica C **308**, 9 (1998). * [17] M.
Karppinen, H. Yamauchi, Y. Morita, M. Kitabatake, T. Motohashi, R. S.
Liu, J. M. Lee, and J. M. Chen, J. Solid State Chem. **177**, 1037
(2004). * [18] M. Karppinen and H. Yamauchi, in _International Book
Series: Studies of High Temperature Superconductors_, Vol. 37, edited by
A. V. Narlikar (Nova Science Publishers, New York, 2001), pp. 109-143. *
[19] Y. Morita, M. Karppinen, and H. Yamauchi (unpublished). * [20] T.
Watanabe, M. Karppinen, T. Motohashi, T. Nagai, Y. Matsui, and H.
Yamauchi, preceding paper, Phys. Rev. B **70**, 174514 (2004). * [21] I.
Felner and E. Galstyan, Phys. Rev. B **69**, 024512 (2004). * [22] I.
Felner and E. Galstyan, Phys. Rev. B **68**, 064507 (2003). * [23] In
two published works [Chen Xianhui, Ding Zhongfen, Qian Yitai, Chen
Zuyao, and Chen Zhaojia, Phys. Rev. B **48**, 9799 (1993); Y. Akagi, H.
Sasakura, S. Noguchi, T. Oka, M. Adachi, and S. Tsukui, Physica C
**388-389**, 387 (2003)] possible superconductivity in an M-1232 type
phase has been claimed and/or mentioned. However, both the works lack
the most crucial experimental evidence required to verify bulk
superconductivity of the given phase. * [24] S. Ikegawa, K. Nakayama, Y.
Motoi, and M. Arai, Phys. Rev. B **66**, 014536 (2002). * [25] R.
Kleiner, F. Steinmeyer, G. Kunkel, and P. Muller, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**68**, 2394 (1992). * [26] R. Kleiner and P. Muller, Phys. Rev. B
**49**, 1327 (1994).
