# Strong-coupling superconductivity in the nickel-based oxypnictide
LaNiAsO1-xFx

Zheng Li,¹ Gengfu Chen,¹ Jing Dong,¹ Gang Li,¹ Wanzheng Hu,¹ Dan Wu,¹
Shaokui Su,¹ Ping Zheng,¹ Tao Xiang,^(1, 2)

Nanlin Wang,¹ and Jianlin Luo^(1, 8)

¹Beijing National Laboratory for Condensed Matter Physics, Institute of
Physics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100190, China

²Institute of Theoretical Physics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, P.O. Box
2735, Beijing 100190, China

Received 18 June 2008; published 18 August 2008

###### Abstract

A series of layered nickel-based LaNiAsO_(1 − x)F_(x) compounds with x =
0−0.15 are synthesized by solid-state reactions. The pure LaNiAsO
exhibits bulk superconductivity with T_(c) ∼ 2.75 K. Partial
substitution of oxygen with fluorine increases the transition
temperature to ∼3.8 K. The LaNiAsO_(0.9)F_(0.1) sample shows a sharp
superconducting transition and a sharp specific-heat jump at the
critical temperature. The magnitude of the specific-heat jump is much
larger than that expected from the weak-coupling BCS theory, indicating
that this superconductor is in the strong-coupling regime. Furthermore,
the temperature dependence of the specific heat deviates strongly from
the theoretical result for the single-band s- or d-wave superconductor
but shows a characteristic feature of multigap.

pacs: 74.70.−b, 74.62.Bf, 74.25.Gz + Footnote †: preprint: APS/123-QED

L layered transition-metal oxypnictides LaMPnO (M = Mn, Fe, Co, and Ni;
Pm = P and As) have attracted great attention recently due to the
discovery of superconductivity in Fe- and Ni-based systems. The
superconductivity was first reported in Fe-based LaFePO with a
transition temperature T_(c) ∼ 4 K, which increases to 7 K with F⁻
doping,¹ and later in Ni-based LaNiPO with T_(c) ∼ 3 K.² With the
replacement of P with As and the partial substitution of O with F in the
Fe-based compound LaFeAsO_(1 − x)F_(x),T_(c) rises to 26 K.³ At present
much effort has been devoted to the Fe-based systems.⁴ ⁻ ¹⁰ It is found
that the undoped compound LaFeAsO itself is not superconducting but
undergoes a spin-density-wave (SDW) transition at 150 K. Upon fluorine
doping, the SDW instability is suppressed, and the superconductivity
starts to appear.¹¹ It is of great interest to see if a similar
phenomenon could appear in the Ni-based superconducting compound LaNiPO
when P is replaced with As and O is partially substituted with F.

In this work, we present an extensive investigation on the physical
properties of high quality LaNiAsO_(1 − x)F_(x) (x = 0 ∼ 0.15)
superconductors. We found that, unlike LaFeAsO, the pure LaNiAsO
exhibits bulk superconductivity with T_(c) ∼ 2.75 K. Partial
substitution of oxygen with fluorine increases the transition
temperature only slightly; however it dramatically improves the
superconducting quality. The superconducting transition temperature
becomes extremely narrow and the superconducting volume is very high.
The transition width is about 0.05 K when the F content is higher than
0.06. The high quality of the sample enables us to determine accurately
the superconducting parameters. Sharp specific-heat jumps at the
superconducting transition temperatures were observed. Detailed analysis
of the specific-heat data suggests that LaNiAsO_(1 − x)F_(x) is a
strong-coupling and multigap superconductor.

The samples were synthesized by the solid-state reaction using NiO, Ni,
As, La, and LaF₃ as starting materials. LaAs was prepared by reacting La
chips and As pieces at 500 ^(∘)C for 15 h and then at 850 ^(∘)C for 2 h.
The raw materials were thoroughly grounded and pressed into pellets. The
pellets were wrapped into Ta foil and sealed in an evacuated quartz tube
under argon atmosphere. It was then annealed at 1150 ^(∘)C for 50 h. The
resulting samples were characterized by powder x-ray diffraction (XRD)
with Cu Kα radiation at room temperature. Figure 1 shows the XRD
patterns for LaNiAsO and LaNiAsO_(0.9)F_(0.1). These patterns can be
well indexed on the basis of tetragonal ZrCuSiAs-type structure with the
space group P4/_nmm_. Two tiny impurity peaks were detected for LaNiAsO
but no obvious impurity phase was detected for LaNiAsO_(0.9)F_(0.1). The
lattice parameters are a = 0.4119 nm and c = 0.8180 nm for LaNiAsO and a
= 0.4115 nm and c = 0.8169 nm for LaNiAsO_(0.9)F_(0.1).

The electrical resistivity was measured by the standard four-probe
method. The ac magnetic susceptibility was measured with a modulation
field of 10 Oe at 333 Hz. The Hall-coefficient measurement was done
using a five-probe technique. The specific heat was measured using a
thermal relaxation calorimeter. The field dependence of the thermometer
and the heat capacity of the addenda were carefully calibrated before
measurement. All these measurements were

Figure 1: (Color online) The x-ray-powder-diffraction patterns of
LaNiAsO and LaNiAsO_(0.9)F_(0.1). The bars at the bottom show the
calculated Bragg-diffraction positions of LaNiAsO. Two tiny peaks marked
by arrows are from the impurity phase of LaNiAsO. No impurity phase is
detected for LaNiAsO_(0.9)F_(0.1).

preformed in a physical property measurement system (PPMS) of the
Quantum Design company.

Figure 2(a) shows the temperature dependence of the resistivity ρ for
LaNiAsO and LaNiAsO_(0.9)F_(0.1) from 1.8 to 300 K at zero field. The
resistivity of LaNiAsO is metallic, different from that observed in
LaFeAsO. In LaFeAsO, the resistivity exhibits a SDW transition at ∼150
K, a minimum at ∼100 K, and an upturn at low temperatures.[3; 11] The
onset superconducting transition occurs at 2.75 K for LaNiAsO and at 3.8
K for LaNiAsO_(0.9)F_(0.1). The transition temperature of LaNiAsO is
close to that of LaNiPO, with T_(c)∼3 K, but differs from that of
LaFeAsO, which is nonsuperconducting and with a structural and SDW
transition below 150 K. The superconducting transition width for
LaNiAsO_(0.9)F_(0.1) is ∼0.05 K, much narrower than that for any other
superconductor in this family, indicating the high homogeneity of the
superconducting phase.

The bulk superconductivity in these samples was confirmed by
magnetic-susceptibility measurements. Figure 2(b) shows the real (χ^(′))
and imaginary (χ^(′′)) ac susceptibilities around T_(c). Both LaNiAsO
and LaNiAsO_(0.9)F_(0.1) samples become diamagnetic below T_(c). The
transition of LaNiAsO_(0.9)F_(0.1) is much steeper than that of LaNiAsO.
For pure LaNiAsO, χ^(′) begins to drop below 1.8 K, similar to that for
LaNiPO.[2] However, for LaNiAsO_(0.9)F_(0.1), χ^(′) is already saturated
below 3 K. The absolute value of the diamagnetic susceptibility is about
three times larger than that reported for LaFeAsO_(1 − x)F_(x), LaFePO,
and LaNiPO samples. The typical diamagnetic-susceptibility values of
these superconductors are about 2 emu/mol at low temperatures. This
indicates that the volume fraction of superconducting phase in this
sample is very high.

The temperature dependence of the Hall coefficient R_(H) for
LaNiAsO_(1 − x)F_(x) with x=0 and 0.1 is shown in Fig. 2(c). The
negative R_(H) implies that the charge carriers are dominantly electron
type, same as in LaFeAsO_(1 − x)F_(x).[9] The absolute value of R_(H)
for LaNiAsO_(0.9)F_(0.1) is more than 1 order of magnitude smaller than
that of LaFeAsO_(0.9)F_(0.1), possibly indicating that the
LaNiAsO_(1 − x)F_(x) system has a relatively higher carrier density if
we adopt simply the one-band formula R_(H)=1/ne. Assuming that the
electron and hole mobilities have the same temperature dependence, the
higher carrier density in LaNiAsO_(1 − x)F_(x) can be explained by the
fact that Ni²⁺(3d⁸) contributes two more electrons than
LaFeAsO_(0.9)F_(0.1) does. The Fermi energy shifts up. Compared with
that of Fe²⁺(3d⁶) in LaFeAs_(1 − x)F_(x), the hole bands tend to be
fully filled. As a result predicted by band calculations,[6] the
electron bands dominate the conductivity in LaNiAsO.

Figure 3(a) shows T_(c) as a function of x for LaNiAsO_(1 − x)F_(x).
With increasing x, T_(c) first increases from 2.75 for x=0 to 3.78 K for
x=0.06 and then remains almost constant up to x=0.15. This doping
dependence of T_(c)(x) is similar to that of the LaFeAsO_(1 − x)F_(x)
system.[5] The superconducting transition width is about 0.05 K when x
is higher than 0.06.

Figure 3(b) shows the field dependence of the resistivity of
LaNiAsO_(0.9)F_(0.1) up to 4 T. The transition temperature T_(c) shifts
to lower temperature in external magnetic fields. The transition width
is gradually broadened, similar to that for LaFeAsO.[9] Since LaNiAsO
and related materials are layered compounds with strong anisotropy,[12]
the field-induced broadening may result from the anisotropy of the upper
critical field H_(c, 2) for H∥c and H∥ab plane. Such a broadening effect
was also observed in layered Li_(0.68)NbO₂ and high T_(c) cuprates.[12;
13] A 4 T magnetic field suppresses T_(c) down below 1.8 K. Using the
onset superconducting transition temperature, the zero temperature upper
critical field H_(c, 2)(0) can be estimated by using the formula
H_(c, 2)(T)=$H_{c,2}(0)(1-t^{2})/(1

Figure 3: (Color online) (a) Doping dependence of the superconducting transition temperature \(T_{c}$
for LaNiAsO_(1 − x)F_(x). (b) Temperature dependence of the resistivity
of LaNiAsO_(0.8)F_(0.1) at different fields. The inset shows the
temperature dependence of the upper critical magnetic field.

Figure 2: (Color online) (a) Temperature dependence of the resistivity ρ
for LaNiAsO and LaNiAsO_(0.9)F_(0.1). (b) The real and the imaginary
parts of ac susceptibility below 5 K for LaONiAs (open and closed
squares) and LaNiAsO_(0.9)F_(0.1) (open and closed circles),
respectively. (c) Hall coefficient versus temperature for the two
samples.

t = t²), [9, 10] where t is the reduced temperature, t = T/T_(c). By
fitting, we find that H_(c2)(0) ∼ 4.6 T [see inset of Fig. 3(b)], which
is about ten times smaller than the corresponding value for 10

Specific-heat (C) measurement is a powerful tool for detecting the bulk
properties of a superconductor both in the superconducting and normal
states. Generally, the specific heat is dominated by the phonon
contribution and it is difficult to separate the electronic contribution
from the total specific heat at high temperatures. Therefore, there is a
large uncertainty in the determination of the characteristic parameters,
such as the normal-state electronic specific-heat coefficient γ_(n) and
the specific-heat jump at T_(c), if the measurement of the specific heat
is done for a superconductor with a higher T_(c). For example, in
LaFeAsO_(0.9)F_(0.1), with T_(c) ∼ 20 K, the specific-heat anomaly at
T_(c) has not been observed at zero field. [10] However, the high
superconducting volume fraction and the low transition temperature in
our LaNiAsO_(0.9)F_(0.1) sample provide a good opportunity to determine
these superconducting parameters accurately.

Figure 4(a) shows the specific-heat coefficient C/T as a function of T²
from 0.5 to 5 K for LaNiAsO_(0.9)F_(0.1) in a set of external fields. At
zero field, the bulk nature of superconductivity and the high quality of
the sample are confirmed by the steep jump in C/T at T_(c) = 3.8 K,
consistent with the resistivity measurement. A small field of 0.05 T
suppresses substantially the specific-heat jump at T_(c). A small upturn
in C/T at low temperature is observed at 0.5 T, which can be attributed
to the Schottky anomaly resulting from the contribution of a small
amount of magnetic impurities. A similar low-temperature upturn in the
specific heat due to Schottky anomaly was observed for YBa₂Cu₃O₇, [14]

Above T_(c), C/T shows a good linear T² dependence. By fitting the
normal-state specific heat C with the formula C = γ_(n)T + βT³, it is
found that γ_(n) = 4.75 mJ/mol K² and β = 0.808 mJ/mol K⁴. If these
parameters are used to extract the phonon contributions below T_(c), it
is found that the entropy difference between the superconducting and
normal states is not conserved above T_(c). This suggests that the above
formula of the specific heat, i.e., C = γ_(n)T + βT³, might be too
simple to account for the experimental data below T_(c) and the value of
γ_(n) obtained above is not correct.

To resolve the above problem, we apply a 10 T magnetic field to suppress
completely the superconductivity and the low-temperature Schottky
anomaly. Thus the specific heat at 10 T contains only the contribution
from normal-state electrons and phonons. By subtracting these
normal-state contributions at 10 T from the zero-field specific heat
[Fig. 4(b)], the normal-state electronic specific-heat coefficient is
now found to be γ_(n)=7.3 mJ/mol K². This value of γ_(n) is larger than
that estimated from the normal-state data by simply subtracting a T³
phonon contribution. It is smaller than the corresponding value for
other layered superconductors, such as NaCoO₂ (∼24 mJ/mol K²), [15, 16]
Sr₂RuO₄ (∼40 mJ/mol K²), [17] and Li_(x)NbS₂ (∼10 mJ/mol K²), [18] but
larger than that of Li_(x)NbO₂ (∼3.59 mJ/mol K²). [12] In the absence of
magnetic field, the low-temperature C/T extrapolates to a small but
finite value of γ_(n) = 1.16 mJ/mol K². This residual specific heat
indicates that there is a residual density states at the Fermi level.
From this residual specific heat, the superconducting volume fraction of
the sample is estimated to be about (γ_(n) = γ_(n))/γ_(n)=84

Figure 4(b) shows the difference between the specific-heat coefficients
at 0 and 10 T, (C₀τ −C₁₀τ)/T, as a function of T/T_(c). The entropy is
now conserved above T_(c). The normalized specific-heat jump at T_(c) of
LaNiAsO_(0.9)F_(0.1) is found to be ΔC/(γ_(n) −γ₃)T_(c)=1.9, which is
significantly larger than the value predicted by the weak-coupling BCS
theory. This large specific-heat jump may result from strong
electron-phonon coupling. If the electron-phonon mechanism of
superconductivity is assumed, one can then estimate the electron-phonon
coupling constant λ from the modified McMillian formula, [19, 20, 21]

$$\lambda=\frac{1.04+\mu^{\ast}\ln(\omega_{\rm{ln}}/1.2T_{c})}{(1-0.62\mu^{\ast} )\ln(\omega_{\rm{ln}}/1.2T_{c})-1.04},$$
(1)

where μ^(*) is a Coulomb pseudopotential and $\omega_{\rm{ln}}$ is a
logarithmic averaged phonon frequency. $\omega_{\rm{ln}}$ can be

Figure 4: (Color online) (a) C/T versus T² of LaNiAsO_(0.9)F_(0.1) under
selected magnetic fields. (b) Temperature dependence of the difference
between the specific-heat coefficients at zero field and at 10 T, (C₀τ
−C₁₀τ)/T. The dashed and dotted lines are theoretical curves for the BCS
s- and d-wave superconductors, respectively. Inset: Temperature
dependence of d(ΔC/T)/dT at zero field (closed circles) and H=0.2 T
(open circles).

determined from the specific-heat jump at T_(c) using the formula
ΔC/γ_(n)T_(c)=1.43[1 + 53(T_(c)/ω₀)2ln(ω₀/3T_(c))]. Taking μ^(*)=0.10
and T_(c)=3.8 K, we obtained ω₀=61.6 K and λ=0.93. The large value of λ
confirms the strong-coupling nature of the superconducting pairing.

The value of λ can be also estimated from the effective-mass
normalization. From the first-principles calculations, it was found that
the bare electronic specific-heat coefficient for LaNaSO is γ₀=3.81
mJ/mol K².[6] By substituting this value into the formula γ_(n)=(1 +
λ)γ₀, we find that λ=0.92 if LaNaSO_(0.9)F_(0.1) have the same value of
γ₀ as LaNaSO. This value of λ agrees well with that estimated from the
specific-heat jump at T_(c).

The specific-heat data below T_(c) can be used to determine the pairing
symmetry.[12] Figure 4(b) compares the experimental data of
LaNiAsO_(0.9)F_(0.1) with the BCS mean-field results for a single-band
s- or d-wave superconductors. Apparently the theoretical curves for both
the single-band s- and d-wave superconductors deviate significantly from
the experimental data. Moreover, a tiny board hump is observed at T∼
1.35 K [indicated by an arrow in Fig. 4(b)]. The inset of Fig. 4(b)
shows the temperature dependence of d(ΔC/T)/dT, where ΔC=C(H) − C(10 T).
We can see more clearly the hump feature in the d(ΔC/T)/dT=T curve in
zero field. However, this hump is suppressed by a magnetic field of 0.2
T. This is a typical feature of a multiband system, since the
superconducting gap may vary at different bands and the smaller gap can
have a greater contribution to the low-temperature specific heat. A
similar behavior was observed in MgB₂, where the low-temperature
specific heat shows a broad peak at about 1/4T_(c) in addition to a
sharp specific-heat jump at T_(c).[22]

In summary, high quality LaNiAsO_(1 − x)F_(x) superconducting samples
with extreme narrow superconducting transition width of ∼0.05 K and high
superconducting volume fraction are synthesized. The upper critical
field is found to be 4.6 T for LaNiAsO_(0.9)F_(0.1). A sharp
specific-heat jump (ΔC) is observed at the transition temperature,
ΔC/γ_(n)T_(c)=1.9, which is much larger than the value predicted by the
weak-coupling BCS theory. This large specific-heat jump indicates that
the superconducting pairing is in the strong-coupling regime if the
electron-phonon mechanism is assumed. The presence of a hump at about
1.35 K in specific heat and the deviation of the specific-heat data from
the BCS result for the single-band s- or d-wave superconductor suggest
that this material is a multisuperconducting gap system.

We would like to acknowledge Z. Fang and L. Lu for helpful discussions
and H. Chen for the help in the x-ray-diffraction experiments. This work
was supported by the NSF of China, the Knowledge Innovation Project of
the Chinese Academy of Sciences, and Project No. 973 of MOST, China.

## References

* [1] Y. Kamihara, H. Hiramatsu, M. Hirano, R. Kawamura, H. Yanagi, T.
Kamiya, and H. Hosono, J. Am. Chem. Soc. **128**, 10012 (2006). * [2] T.
Watanabe, H. Yanagi, T. Kamiya, Y. Kamihara, H. Hiramatsu, M. Hirano,
and H. Hosono, Inorg. Chem. **46**, 7719 (2007). * [3] Y. Kamihara, T.
Watanabe, M. Hirano, and H. Hosono, J. Am. Chem. Soc. **130**, 3296
(2008). * [4] S. Lebegue, Phys. Rev. B **75**, 035110 (2007). * [5] D.
J. Singh and M. H. Du, Phys. Rev. Lett. **100**, 237003 (2008). * [6] G.
Xu, W. Ming, Y. Yao, X. Dai, S. C. Zhang, and Z. Fang, Europhys. Lett.
**82**, 67002 (2008). * [7] K. Haule, J. H. Shim, and G. Kotliar, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **100**, 226402 (2008). * [8] F. J. Ma and Z. Y. Lu, Phys.
Rev. B **78**, 033111 (2008). * [9] G. F. Chen, Z. Li, G. Li, J. Zhou,
D. Wu, J. Dong, W. Z. Hu, P. Zheng, Z. J. Chen, J. L. Luo, and N. L.
Wang, Phys. Rev. Lett. **101**, 057007 (2008). * [10] G. Mu, X. Zhu, L.
Fang, L. Shan, C. Ren, and H. H. Wen, Chin. Phys. Lett. **25**, 2221
(2008); X. Zhu, H. Yang, L. Fang, G. Mu, and H. H. Wen, Supercond. Sci.
Technol. **21**, 105001 (2008). * [11] J. Dong, H. J. Zhang, G. Xu, Z.
Li, G. Li, W. Z. Hu, D. Wu, G. F. Chen, X. Dai, J. L. Luo, Z. Fang, and
N. L. Wang, Europhys. Lett. **83**, 27006 (2008). * [12] G. T. Liu, J.
L. Luo, Z. Li, Y. Q. Guo, N. L. Wang, D. Jin, and T. Xiang, Phys. Rev. B
**74**, 012504 (2006). * [13] A. P. Mackenzie, S. R. Julian, G. G.
Lonzarich, A. Carrington, S. D. Hughes, R. S. Liu, and D. C. Sinclair,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **71**, 1238 (1993). * [14] J. P. Emerson, R. A.
Fisher, N. E. Phillips, D. A. Wright, and E. M. McCarron, Phys. Rev. B
**49**, 9256 (1994). * [15] R. Jin, B. C. Sales, P. Khalifah, and D.
Mandrus, Phys. Rev. Lett. **91**, 217001 (2003). * [16] J. L. Luo, N. L.
Wang, G. T. Liu, D. Wu, X. N. Jing, F. Hu, and T. Xiang, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **93**, 187203 (2004). * [17] S. Nishizaki, Y. Maeno, S. Farmer,
S. Ikeda, and T. Fujita, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **67**, 560 (1998). * [18]
D. C. Dahn, J. F. Carolan, and R. R. Haering, Phys. Rev. B **33**, 5214
(1986). * [19] P. B. Allen and R. C. Dynes, Phys. Rev. B **12**, 905
(1975). * [20] J. P. Carbotte, Rev. Mod. Phys. **62**, 1027 (1990). *
[21] T. Klimczuk, F. Ronning, V. Sidorov, R. J. Cava, and J. D.
Thompson, Phys. Rev. Lett. **99**, 257004 (2007). * [22] F. Bouquet, R.
A. Fisher, N. E. Phillips, D. G. Hinks, and J. D. Jorgensen, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **87**, 047001 (2001).
