# Absolute values of the London penetration depth in YBa2Cu3O6+y
measured

by zero field ESR spectroscopy on Gd doped single crystals

T. Pereg-Barnea

P. J. Turner

R. Harris

G. K. Mullins

J. S. Bobowski

M. Raudsepp

Ruixing Liang

D. A. Bonn

W. N. Hardy

Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of British Columbia,
6224 Agricultural Road, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada V6T 1ZI

24 November 2003204 May 2004

###### Abstract

Zero-field electron spin resonance (ESR) of dilute Gd ions substituted
for Y in the cuprate superconductor YBa2Cu3O6+y is used as a novel
technique for measuring the absolute value of the low-temperature
magnetic penetration depth λ(_T_ →0). The Gd ESR spectrum of samples
with ≈ 1

2004 10.1103/PhysRevB.69.184513 69 184513 2004 24 November 2003204 May
2004

## I Introduction

The magnetic penetration depth λ figures prominently in many aspects of
superconductivity. It is the length scale over which an external
magnetic field is screened by a superconductor in the Meissner state, it
sets the size of vortices in the mixed state, and it is a controlling
factor in many other properties such as microwave and far infrared
absorption. The fundamental importance of the penetration depth is that
it provides a rather direct measure of the superfluid phase stiffness
ρ_(s)≈1/λ2, or what is often referred to as superfluid density n_(s)/m =
1/μ₀e²λ2, which can be a tensor quantity due to effects such as an
anisotropic effective mass m *. In the cuprates, the dependence of λ on
temperature T and hole doping have provided major pieces of the cuprate
puzzle. Microwave measurements of Δλ(_T_) at low T revealed a linear
dependence providing some of the first key evidence of the presence of
line nodes in the superconducting gap in the cuprates [1] and the
temperature dependence of λ(_T_) near _T__(c) suggested that the
transition is governed by three-dimensional (3D) _XY_ critical
fluctuations. [2] Evidence that the low temperature value of the phase
stiffness ρ_(s)(_T_ → 0) depends linearly on _T__(c), has been obtained
from muon spin relaxation measurements of λ(_T_). [3, 4, 5]

Accurate and precise measurements of the absolute value of λ(_T_ → 0)
are particularly important for understanding superconductivity in the
cuprates, and are critical for broad studies of doping dependence.
Having an absolute value of λ is also crucial in the interpretation of
other experiments that involve superfluid screening, with examples
including the microwave conductivity, the lower critical field H_(C1),
and the conversion of measurements of Δλ(_T_) to the
temperature-dependent superfluid density ∝ 1/λ²(_T_). However, the
absolute value of λ has proven to be particularly difficult to measure.
A wide variety of techniques exist for doing so, but each has important
drawbacks that must be acknowledged. One class of techniques takes place
in the mixed state, probing the length scale over which fields decay
away from a magnetic vortex. [4] Muon spin relaxation (μSR) falls into
this class and suffers from the difficulty that the screening length
scale obtained from a mixed state measurement in relatively high fields
can differ from the penetration depth in the Meissner state because of
nonlinear and nonlocal effects. [4] Vortex state measurements are also
unable to directly resolve the anisotropy in λ in orthorhombic materials
because the screening currents circulate around a vortex. A second class
of techniques measures magnetic flux exclusion from a sample in the
Meissner state, essentially by measuring the magnetic susceptibility at
dc, radio, or microwave frequencies. [1, 6, 7] These can precisely
determine the temperature dependence Δλ(_T_) = λ(_T_) −λ(_T_) relative
to a base temperature _T_₀. However, a measurement of the absolute value
amounts to a comparison between the physical volume of the sample and a
susceptibility determination of the volume that is field free, the
difference being the small volume at the surface that is penetrated by
the field. Such a measurement is most sensitive if the ratio of surface
area to volume is large, which can be achieved by working with powders.
However, difficulties in aligning powders and modelling the shape and
size distribution of grains introduce substantial uncertainties in the
absolute value of λ. [8] For a macroscopic high-quality crystal of a
cuprate superconductor, it is nearly impossible to measure sample
dimensions precisely enough to achieve an absolute measurement of λ this
way, except in geometries dominated by the very large values of λ for
screening currents running in the ĉ direction.

A very direct measurement of the penetration depth has been achieved by
measuring the transmission of low fre quency fields through very thin
films using mutual inductance techniques. While this is a very sensitive
method, its chief drawbacks are the need to work with films and the
difficulty of measuring anisotropy.[9] Techniques that can resolve the
anisotropy include far infrared and optical measurements that determine
the inductive response of the superfluid at high frequencies.[10, 11]
Such measurements are difficult because of their need for spectra over a
very wide frequency range in order to perform Kramers-Kronig transforms
and are also susceptible to error because the measured response can also
include screening by uncondensed carriers in addition to the superfluid.
However, this approach can be used to determine the anisotropy of λ
simply by polarizing the light and measuring optical properties along
all of the principal axes. Such infrared determinations of the absolute
value of λ at low temperature have been combined with microwave
measurements of Δλ(T) to produce the anisotropic 1/λ²(T) in
YBa₂Cu₃O_(6+ y) at y = 0.60 and 0.95,[14] but it would be far preferable
to have a more direct microwave measurement that gives the absolute
value of λ, measured _on the same sample_ as that used to determine the
temperature dependence.

This paper describes a microwave technique that directly measures the
small volume near the surface that is field penetrated in the Meissner
state, rather than inferring λ from a measurement of the very large
volume that is field free (see Fig. 1). We use this technique here to
measure the absolute value of λ for all three principal axes in
YBa₂Cu₃O_(6+ y). The key to the method is to embed a randomly
distributed low concentration of magnetic moments in the superconductor
in such a way that they will act as local field probes and yet will
minimally affect the transport properties. The magnetic moments will
serve as a non-interacting spin system whose electron spin resonance
(ESR) spectrum is a sum of one-particle ESR transitions. The energy
levels of a single spin are determined by its crystallographic
environment, i.e., the charge distribution around the magnetic ion, and
the resulting susceptibility is that of a single spin multiplied by the
number of spins that participate in the ESR process. If the moments are
evenly distributed in the sample, the number of spins that participate
in the process is proportional to the fraction of the sample’s volume
that is exposed to the field, i.e., the volume within a penetration
depth of the surface. In order to count the number of spins exposed, we
measure the zero field ESR absorption spectrum with a microwave
frequency magnetic field applied perpendicular to the principal spin
axis acting as a small perturbation.

In the next section of this paper we describe the samples, the broadband
microwave apparatus, and the measurements of the apparent microwave
surface resistance that ultimately yield values of the penetration
depth. The third section describes how the theoretical ESR spectrum was
calculated using an effective crystal field Hamiltonian, which is a
necessary prerequisite for extracting λ. In the fourth section we
examine the issue of oxygen ordering in the CuO chains of
YBa₂Cu₃O_(6+ y) and comment upon the sensitivity of our measurements to
this ordering. Finally, we summarize our results and present new values
for λ in all three directions, for three different dopings in the
YBa₂Cu₃O_(6+ y) system. These results indicate a substantial departure
from T_(c)∝ 1/λ², the so-called Uemura scaling.

## II Sample preparation and experimental techniques

The objective of this work is to provide accurate measurements of the
intrinsic absolute value of the magnetic penetration depth in the limit
T → 0. It is well known that impurity doping can have a strong influence
on the low-energy density of states in a d-wave superconductor,[12, 13]
and for the present work care must be taken to ensure that the
introduction of the spin-probe impurity does not alter λ(T → 0). This
constrains the Gd concentration x, but conversely we wish to maximize
the amplitude of the ESR response, which scales as x. We have found a
good compromise at a nominal value of x∼ 1

In Gd_(x)Y_(1− x)Ba₂Cu₃O_(6+ y), the dopant Gd³⁺ ion substitutes for the
Y³⁺ ion which is sandwiched between the two CuO₂ planes in the
YBa₂Cu₃O_(6+ y) unit cell that support the bulk of the electronic
transport. The energy cost for cross substitution of the Gd on the Ba
site is prohibitive and such cation substitution occurs only for the
lighter and larger members of the rare earth series. The ESR spectrum is
determined completely by the crystal field environment of the Gd³⁺ ion
and therefore knowing that there is only one site for substitution means
that changes in the ESR spectrum from sample-to-sample can only be due
to changes of the oxygen order in the CuO chains. Another important
feature of substitution on the Y site is that the Gd impurities are
expected to be weak (Born) limit quasiparticle scattering centers as was
found to be the case for Ca²⁺ substitution on the same site.[14] Born
scatterers have little effect on the superfluid density in the
low-temperature limit. This is in contrast, for instance, to the case of
the nonmagnetic impurity

Figure 1: Schematic drawing of a platelet sample of a superconductor
having an anisotropic penetration depth λ in a uniform applied microwave
magnetic field H_(eff). In the above picture, the field penetrates a
volume determined by λ_(a) and λ_(c) and the crystal dimensions l_(a),
l_(b), and l_(c), but contains no contribution from λ_(b). By combining
measurements where we rotate and cleave the crystal, we are able to
determine values of λ for all three crystallographic directions.

Zn2+ which substitutes _into_ the CuO2 plane, and is known to be
strongly pair breaking.

The Gd2Y1-zBa2Cu3O6+_y_ samples were grown using a self-flux method in
BaZrO3 crucibles as described elsewhere.15 The starting materials had at
least 99.999 at.

A critical parameter in our data analysis is the absolute concentration
of Gd ions x, which was measured using electron-probe microanalysis
(EPMA). We used a fully automated CAMECA SX-50 instrument, operated in
the wavelength-dispersion mode with the following operating conditions:
activation voltage 15 kV, beam current 20 nA, peak count time (240 s for
Gd) 20 s, background count time 10 s each side of peak (120 s for Gd),
spot diameter 5 _m_m, Data reduction was done using the "PAP"
_ph_(_r_2_) method.19 For the elements considered, the following
standards, x-ray lines and crystals were used: Ga3Gd5O12, GdL_a_, LiF;
YBa2Cu3O6.95, BaL_a_, PET; YBa2Cu3O6.95, Cu_K_a_, LiF; YBa2Cu3O6.95,
_OK_a_, W/Si multilayer dispersion element. For the present study, we
found it to be important that each Gd4Y1-zBa2Cu3O6+_y_ crystal was
examined individually. Because the sample must be embedded in epoxy for
EPMA, this was done following all microwave measurements. For a nominal
Gd concentration of x = 1

The broadband microwave absorption spectrum (0.5 to 21 GHz) was measured
using a novel spectrometer based on a bolometric method of detection,
described in detail elsewhere.20 In essence, the single crystal
Gd_x_Y1-zBa2Cu3O6+_y_ sample is exposed to a spatially uniform microwave
magnetic field that is amplitude modulated at low frequency. The
corresponding temperature oscillations of the sample are detected
synchronously, and absolute calibration of the thermal stage sensitivity
allows us to infer the magnitude of the power absorbed by the sample. A
critical ingredient of the method is a well-characterized normal-metal
reference sample that is mounted on a second thermal stage and placed in
a symmetric location in the microwave transmission line. This allows us
to monitor the strength of the applied microwave field which varies
strongly with frequency due to standing waves in the microwave circuit.

At microwave frequencies in the limit of local electrodynamics,21 the
experimentally measurable quantity is the surface impedance _Zs_ which
is related to the complex conductivity s = s1 - i _s_2 via

$$Z_{s} = R_{s} + iX_{s} = \sqrt{\frac{i\mu_{0}\omega}{\sigma_{1} - i\sigma_{2}}}.$$

For a superconductor well-below _T_c measured at low frequency, the high
superfluid density ensures that the response is mainly reactive (i.e.,
s2 s1) and Eq. (1) simplifies to

$$R_{s}(\omega,T) \simeq \frac{1}{2}\mu_{0}^{2}\omega^{2}\lambda^{3}(T)\sigma_{1}(\omega,T),$$

$$X_{s}(\omega,T) \simeq \sqrt{\frac{\mu_{0}\omega}{\sigma_{2}}} = \mu_{0}\omega\lambda(T).$$

(The appearance of l in both of the above expressions highlights its
important role in determining the conductivity from measurements of
R_(s) and X_(s).) The power absorption is determined by the surface
resistance R_(s) = Re|Z_(s)| according to

$$P_{ab} = R_{s}\int\ H_{\rm rf}^{2}\ dS,$$

where _H_rf is the root-mean-square (r.m.s.) magnitude of the uniform
tangential magnetic field at the surface S of the sample. At low
temperatures, absorption in a superconductor is due to quasiparticles
thermally excited from the condensate, and the study of the
quasiparticle conductivity spectrum s1(_o_,_T_) has been the central
focus of other recent work.21,22 In the present case of magnetic
impurities in a superconductor, the imaginary part of the magnetic
susceptibility _kh_’ provides another mechanism for power absorption.
Formally, the magnetic response can be included by a modification of the
vacuum permeability m0 in Eq. (1) to include a dimensionless complex
susceptibility _kh_’ written as m0-_m_ = m0(1 + _kh_’ - _i_kh_’). For
the case of a sufficiently low concentration of magnetic impurities
_kh_’,_kh_’_’_o_ 1, and the apparent surface impedance expressions can
then be rewritten as

$$R_{s}^{\rm app}(\omega,T) \simeq \frac{1}{2}\mu_{0}^{2}\omega^{2}\lambda^{3}(T)\left[ \sigma_{1}(\omega,T) + \frac{\chi^{\prime\prime}(\omega,T)}{\mu_{0}\omega\lambda^{2}(T)} \right\rbrack,$$
$$X_{s}^{\rm app}(\omega,T) = \mu_{0}\omega\lambda(T)\sqrt{1 + \chi^{\prime}(\omega,T)}.$$

Thus, a frequency scanned measurement of the power absorption will
provide an apparent surface resistance with two separate contributions:
one from the quasiparticle conductivity σ₁(ω, T) and one from the ESR
spectrum contained in χ^(′′)(ω, T).

Equation (4) reveals that a measurement of the surface reactance will
contain a contribution from χ^(′)(ω, T) in addition to probing λ(T).
This is evident in the comparison of our measurements of Δλ(T) in pure
and Gd doped YBa₂Cu₃O_(6.99), presented in Fig. 2. In fact, at the
outset of this work we considered the possibility of fitting the
curvature arising from χ^(′)(T) in a low-frequency measurement of Δλ(T)
as a means of extracting the absolute value of λ. However, it was
decided that this method was not practical as it lacked the necessary
sensitivity and also required knowing χ^(′)(ω, T)_a priori_. A further
complication to this approach is that it has been well-established that
a variety of paramagnetic impurities can generate a low temperature
upturn in a low frequency Δλ(T) measurement,[23] which would produce
systematic errors in the extraction of an absolute value of λ.

Fortunately, the broadband spectroscopy apparatus provides a means of
accessing the ESR spectrum in much greater detail. Figure 3 shows a
measurement of $R_{s}^{\rm app}(\omega)$ from 0.5 to 21 GHz at 1.3 K for
a Gd_(0.01)Y_(0.99)Ba₂Cu₃O_(6.99) sample. The quasiparticle absorption
spectrum is known to be a slowly varying, monotonically increasing
function of frequency, and the sharp ESR absorption lines (Δf <0.5 GHz)
are superposed. We have shown previously that the low temperature
microwave conductivity σ₁(ω, T) extracted from measurements of
R_(s)(ω, T) can be interpreted as that of weak-limit quasiparticle
scattering from impurities,[22] and here we attribute the small changes
in the spectrum of Fig. 3 to a slight increase in scattering due to the
increased density of out-of-plane defects in the Gd doped samples. In
order to separate the ESR contribution from the quasiparticle
conductivity, we fit to the smooth background away from the ESR peaks
using a second order polynomial, shown as a solid line in Fig. 3. After
subtracting the polynomial, the remaining quantity is equal to
$\frac{1}{\varepsilon}\mu_{0}\omega\lambda\chi^{\prime\prime}(\omega)$
[from Eq. (4)]. In the subsequent section, we discuss the calculation of
the quantity χ^(′′)(ω) from the effective spin Hamiltonian. With the
theoretical curve for the susceptibility of one Gd spin in hand, we are
able to fit to the experimentally determined quantity with an overall
multiplicative fit parameter λ.

YBa₂Cu₃O_(6 + γ) single crystals grow naturally as platelets having
broad $\overrightarrow{ab}$-plane crystal faces and thin ĉ-axis
dimensions. All of our microwave measurements involve a uniform radio
frequency magnetic field $H_{\rm rf}$ applied parallel to the broad face
of the crystal in order to minimize the effects of demagnetization, as
shown schematically in Fig. 1. It is also known that the crystal ĉ axis
is the principal spin axis of the Gd ions, so that the ESR response is
maximized in this configuration. The number of Gd spins that are exposed
to the microwave field is governed by the effective penetration depth
$\lambda_{\rm eff}$ and, for our geometry, will always contain
contributions from λ_(a) or λ_(b) and λ_(c). In the cuprates, the
two-dimensionality of the CuO₂ planes results in a large anisotropy in
the penetration depth λ_(c)?λ_(a),λ_(b) for all doping levels. In
practice, this means that despite working with thin crystals having the
in-plane dimension l_(a, b)?10l_(c), the ĉ-axis

Figure 3: Broadband microwave absorption measurement of a
Gd_(0.01)Y_(0.99)Ba₂Cu₃O_(6.99) single crystal sample at 1.3 K. The
broad, smooth background is due to quasiparticle absorption and the
sharp lines are due to ESR transitions. The smooth line is a polynomial
fit to the background away from the ESR peaks, and is seen to be similar
to a sample without Gd. The inset shows that the main ESR transition at
14.05 GHz is very well described by a Lorentzian line shape, shown as a
dashed line.

Figure 2: Measurements of the temperature-dependent change in apparent
magnetic penetration depth Δλ(T) performed via cavity perturbation in a
loop-gap resonator operating at 954 MHz. A comparison between
measurements on single crystal samples with and without 1

contribution to $\uplambda_{\rm eff}$ can be large. In some cases it was
also necessary to account for a small fraction t of the crystal which
remained twinned (14

$$\uplambda_{\rm eff} = \frac{l_{p}[(1-t)\uplambda_{a}+t\uplambda_{b}]+l_{c}\uplambda_{c}}{l_{p}+l_{c}},$$

where l_(p) is the in-plane crystal dimension parallel to the flow of
diamagnetic screening currents (the geometry is that of Fig. 1). Each
component of λ can be isolated by combining measurements performed on
the _same crystal_ but with its geometry altered in a controlled manner
as attained by rotating and cleaving the crystal. This matter is
discussed in detail in the Appendix.

## III The crystal field Hamiltonian

In this section, the way in which the magnetic penetration depth is
obtained from our measurements of the ESR absorption spectrum is
explained. This amounts to the treatment of a dilute random array of
Gd3+ ions, each having an electron spin of S = 7/2, that contribute to
the measured quantity ∥μ₀λλ^(′′)(ω). We point out that in this work the
small splitting due to the Gd isotopes with nonzero nuclear spin can be
ignored.24 The spectrum is a result of the energy level configuration
determined by the splitting of the degenerate Gd spin levels by the
crystalline field. Because the spin system is dilute, it can be
described by a noninteracting single-spin effective crystal field (CF)
Hamiltonian. The application of a microwave field, oriented
perpendicular to the principal spin axis of the system, is a
time-dependent perturbation that induces transitions between the spin
levels. When the frequency of the applied field is tuned to the
splitting between two levels, a maximum in the ESR absorption is
observed. The intensity of the transition is found through the
application of Fermi’s golden rule for the two levels that define the
transition m_(i) and m_(j), which allows the transition’s contribution
to the susceptibility to be written as

$$\chi_{ij}^{\sigma}(\omega) = \mu_{0}\frac{\pi}{\hbar}|\mu_{ij}|^{2}\delta(\omega-[E_{j}-E_{i}]/\hbar)[N_{i}-N_{j}].$$

In this expression, the eigenstates m_(i) and m_(j) correspond to the
energies E_(i) and E_(j). The level occupation number is
$N_{i} = N_{0}{\cal Z}^{- 1}\exp( - \beta E_{i})$, where N₀ is the
number of spins per unit volume, ${\cal Z}$ is the partition function,
and β = 1/k_(B)T is the inverse temperature. The time dependent
perturbation induced by the microwave field $H_{\rm rf}$ is proportional
to the S_(x) or S_(y) operator and the matrix element between the two
states is μ_(ij) = g μ_(B)(m_(j)|S_(x/y)|m_(i)), where g is the Lande
factor and μ_(B) is the Bohr magneton.

In real materials the ESR transitions are broadened by various
relaxation processes such as spin-spin interactions, lattice disorder
and spin-lattice interactions. This broadening, however, does not change
the overall intensity of the ESR line, but merely replaces the delta
function by some line shape function (in our case it is close to
Lorentzian) whose integrated intensity is unity. In the initial stages
of this work we examined optimally doped (y = 0.93) crystals having
three different concentrations of Gd ions x ≃ 0.5%, x ≃ 1 %, and
x ≃ 3 %. From these measurements, we were able to conclude that the
width of the Lorentzian-shaped ESR peaks (δf = 0.35 GHz for x = 1 %)
scaled approximately linearly with the nominal Gd concentration x, but
with a substantial x = 0 intercept of about 0.30 GHz. Although we did
not perform the detailed EPMA analysis to measure x of the nominally 0.5
and 3

For the purpose of extracting λ, the quantity of interest is the
effective number of spins exposed to the field $H_{\rm rf}$. This
requires a knowledge of the energy levels, their population and the
corresponding matrix elements. This in turn requires knowing the
Hamiltonian of the system. The Gd atom has

Figure 4: The temperature dependence of the ESR line width for 1.3 and
3.0 K of an optimally doped Gd_(x)Y_(1 − x)Ba₂Cu₃O_(6 + y) sample with
x = 0.03, normalized by the height of the 1.3 K peak. The G-band has
line widths of 0.595 and 0.571 GHz and the F-band has line widths of
0.649 and 0.636 GHz at 1.3 K and 3 K, respectively. The line widths in
our measurements of 1

the electron configuration of [Xe]4f⁷5d¹6s² and ionization number of 3
in Gd_(x)Y_(1 − x)Ba₂Cu₃O_(6 + y). This implies that the outer shell of
the ion remains exactly half filled (seven f electrons in fourteen
states) and the system behaves similar to a 7/2 spin with no mixing with
other S + L multiplets due to Hund’s rule. The construction of an
effective Hamiltonian for a spin system is based on the expansion of the
crystal field around the magnetic ion in terms of Stevens operators.
These are the operator analogues of the spherical harmonics and are
functions of Ŝ, Ŝ_(z), and Ŝ_(±), given, for example, by Abragam and
Bleaney.[25] Due to the lattice symmetries and the finite spin of the
magnetic ion, the expansion reduces to a finite sum of operators
H = Σ_(p, q)B_(q)^(p)O_(q)^(p) where the B_(q)^(p) are numerical
coefficients called the crystal field parameters. The highest order of
Stevens operator O_(q)^(p) allowed for a spin of 7/2 in a crystal field
is 6 since the matrix elements of the Stevens operators between two spin
states are zero unless p≪ 2S. The order is restricted to even values by
the required time reversal symmetry of the Hamiltonian. Furthermore, the
$\widehat{ab}$-plane anisotropy is so small that for most purposes one
can assume π/2 rotation symmetry about the ĉ-axis; orthorhombicity is
most significant in the overdoped samples. In the case of tetragonal
symmetry, the relevant operators in order of significance are
O₂⁰, O₄⁰, O₄⁴, O₆⁰, and O₆⁴. The sixth order terms are difficult to
resolve in our measured spectra and we simply adopt those of previous
authors.[26, 27, 28] When the tetragonal ordering is slightly distorted,
as will be discussed in the next section, three more Stevens operators
can contribute to the Hamiltonian. For the present work, the largest and
only significant one of them is O₂².

The spin-7/2 system discussed herein has four doubly degenerate energy
levels with four eigenstates that are roughly the ±S_(z) eigenstates of
the S_(z) operator. The three allowed ESR transitions correspond to
S_(z) → S_(z) ± 1. Small off-diagonal terms in the Hamiltonian, such as
the O_(q)² and O_(q)⁴, induce small level mixing that allow the
otherwise forbidden transitions corresponding to ±5/2 →  ± 1/2,
±7/2 →  ± 1/2, and ±7/2 →  ± 3/2 to occur, albeit with relatively low
intensities. The resulting energy levels for different CF Hamiltonians
are shown in Fig. 5. Due to the oxygen ordering in chains, which we
discuss in detail in the next section, most samples have more than one
inequivalent site for the Gd ions. Therefore, two or three sets of CF
parameters are needed to fit the spectrum. Following Janossy _et
al._,[26, 27, 28] we label the spectra corresponding to a particular
site by a band index using the notation shown in Fig. 6.

We begin our fitting procedure by first constructing an effective spin
Hamiltonian using the measured CF parameters reported by Janossy _et
al.[26]_ and then adjusting the parameters to best fit our data. We
focus on the main transition (± 7/2 →  ± 5/2 for each band) because it
is the strongest and consequently least susceptible to experimental
uncertainty. As a final step, a multiplicative factor representing the
effective number of spins that have participated in the ESR process is
then used to scale the overall amplitude of the model

Figure 5: The energy levels resulting from the effective crystal field
Hamiltonian. The levels, from left to right, correspond to a diagonal
Hamiltonian H ∝ O₂⁰  = 3S_(z)² − S(S + 1), a tetragonal Hamiltonian, and
finally an orthorhombic Hamiltonian with O₂²  = (S_(z)² + S_(z)²)/2. The
CF parameters shown here are typical for the samples we have measured,
except for B₂² which has been exaggerated in order to make its effect
more visible.

Figure 6: Identification of the ESR bands (A,B,D,F,G) attributed to a
variety of oxygen configurations, taken from Pekker _et al._ (Ref.
[27]). Figures represent cross sections through the center of a YBCO
unit cell (with Gd located on the Y site) parallel to the $\widehat{ac}$
plane. Open circles represent doped holes in the CuO₂ planes, black
circles represent oxygen in the CuO chains, and diamonds represent
oxygen vacancies in the CuO chains. The central circle is the Gd ion.
Note that the three D-band configurations all result in a single ESR
band.

spectrum to match the measured data. This number is the effective
penetration depth $\lambda_{\rm eff}$, combined with the measured Gd
concentration x in the crystal.

## IV Dependence of ESR spectra on oxygen configuration

The presence of a chain layer breaks the tetragonal symmetry and the
Stevens operator expansion of the foregoing section is then no longer
exact. However, the chains are far from the Gd sites and this effect can
be treated as a perturbation, leading to line broadening or line
splitting. Here we will consider line splitting associated with distinct
Gd environments and simply handle the line width as a parameter in a
Lorentzian fit. Different types of Gd sites are encountered because hole
doping in this system is controlled by manipulating the oxygen content
and ordering of the CuO_(y) chains in Gd_(x)Y_(1 − x)Ba₂Cu₃O_(6 + y).
The oxygen content is set by annealing in controlled oxygen partial
pressure at high temperatures and then the oxygen ions tend to organize
into lengths of CuO chain fragments which are able to promote holes to
the CuO₂ planes.[29] The strong tendency to form chain fragments means
that there are seven probable Gd environments corresponding to anything
from 0 to 4 nearest neighbor chains. These different crystallographic
environments have been identified in ESR experiments on magnetically
aligned Gd_(x)Y_(1 − x)Ba₂Cu₃O_(6 + y) powders[26, 27, 28] and are
illustrated in Fig. 6.

The chains also tend to form ordered periodic superlattices consisting
of arrangements of full and empty CuO_(y) chains. The structures can be
particularly well ordered for special values of y. In the case of full
oxygen doping, the CuO chains are nearly completely full with every Gd
ion having four nearest neighbor chains. This results in the simplest of
the spectra observed in the five crystals studied. It involves one
primary set of CF parameters, denoted the G band by Janossey _et al._,
and generates three dominant ESR transitions. A secondary contribution
of much lower intensity is also present in these measurements, resulting
from a configuration where one of the four chains is missing an oxygen,
denoted the F band. In the overdoped sample, the largest transition
(7/2→5/2) of this latter band is barely discernable, but as the oxygen
concentration is reduced to optimal doping, the intensity of the F-band
builds, as seen in Fig. 7.

At lower doping, the next best-ordered phase occurs near y≈ 0.5, where
the chains form an ortho-II structure of alternating full and empty
chains.[16] Other ordered phases are ortho-III with _FFE_ (full, full,
empty) chains and ortho-VIII with _FFEFFEE_ chains. In each of these
phases there is more than one possible chain configuration around the Gd
ions. Having detailed spectra at each doping allows us to identify the
different bands and fit each spectrum with a set of crystal field
parameters for each band. The fitted χ^(′′) spectra are shown in Fig. 7.
In each spectrum, the relative intensities of the different bands is a
measure of the relative num

Figure 7: Measured ESR spectra for five dopings with screening currents
running along the â direction, shown together with the spectrum
calculated using the CF Hamiltonian. The calculated curve is scaled by
an overall multiplicative factor of $\lambda_{\rm eff}$ as explained in
the text. The various spectra were offset by 0.1 from each other and the
ortho-I spectrum was scaled down by a factor of 4.

ber of Gd ions in each configuration. This information can be used as a
measure of the amount of oxygen in the sample:

$$y = \frac{1}{4}\sum\limits_{n}\ nI_{n}\,,\quad\sum\limits_{n}\ I_{n} = 1,$$

where n is the number of full nearest neighbor CuO chains in the band
and I_(n) is the observed relative intensity of the line associated with
a particular band. The oxygen content is given by 6 + y. The ESR
measured oxygen content versus the chemically measured content is
presented in Fig. 8. Note that the ESR points consistently underestimate
the amount of oxygen in the crystals. This is likely due to the
inefficiency of isolated oxygens in empty chains in promoting a hole
into the CuO2 planes. The above oxygen content analysis assumes maximal
length of chains, i.e., all chains are either full or missing with no
isolated oxygens or vacancies. Since the Gd ions are likely to be
sensing the presence of chains through their influence on the charge
distribution on the much nearer CuO2 planes, an isolated oxygen ion
hardly affects the crystal field environment since it does not promote a
hole into the planes.[29] Thus a Gd ion near an isolated oxygen in an
otherwise empty chain will experience the crystal field of an empty
chain. This will lead to an underestimate of the oxygen content, but
will not affect the overall counting of Gd ions.

It is also interesting to note that the ESR analysis provides a good
measure of the chain disorder. For example, perfect three-dimensional
ortho-II ordering should produce only one band, corresponding to two
full chains, the D band. However, our ortho-II spectrum displays two
additional bands (the B and F bands) resulting from imperfections in the
ortho-II ordering.[16] These deviations can be interpreted as ortho-II
phase boundaries. Our ortho-III and ortho-VIII spectra are consistent
with long range ortho-III and ortho-VIII order along the $\widehat{ab}$
plane but random stacking along the ĉ direction.

## V Results

We have performed detailed measurements of the ZF ESR absorption
spectrum in high quality samples of Gd0.01Y0.99Ba2Cu3O6+ y at five
different values of y. As noted above, four of these are chosen to be in
ranges with particularly well-ordered CuO chain structures, denoted by
the periodicity of their chain superlattices (ortho-I,II,III,VIII). The
optimally doped sample, with the maximum attainable T_(c) of 93 K (_y_ =
0.93) is also in the ortho-I phase, but has a substantial number of
oxygen vacancies on the chains. The ESR spectrum at each doping was
fitted with a spectrum generated by an effective CF Hamiltonian, with
initial guesses for the CF parameters taken from Rockenbauer _et
al._[28] Subsequently, the CF parameters were adjusted to best describe
our measured spectra, and the best fit values are presented in Table 1.
The evolution of the dominant CF parameter (B₂⁰) as a function of the
ESR measured oxygen content is shown in Fig. 9. The values and
systematic trends of our fit values compare well to those of the
conventional ESR studies on powders.[26, 27, 28]

The ESR spectrum is a sensitive probe of the crystallographic structure
and the crystal symmetry in particular. This high sensitivity is
demonstrated at its best in the spectrum of our overdoped sample. This
is the most ordered and most orthorhombic phase, with four full CuO
chains around virtually every Gd ion. The lines are very sharp and the
main band G corresponds to 96

The measured ortho-III spectrum is indicative of some disorder in the
chain structure. First, the substantial amount of spectral weight in the
F band, which corresponds to three full chains, indicates that even if
the ordering is perfect in the planes, the stacking along the ĉ
direction is disordered, i.e., that the ortho-III structure may shift
between adjacent chain layers. Second, we find that each ESR peak is
composed of two closely spaced lines that together produce a
non-Lorentzian shape. Since the measured ESR oxygen level is consistent
with the other crystals (see _y_total= 0.77 in Fig. 8), we are confident
in the band identification and do not inter

Figure 8: Ordered oxygen content as measured by ESR vs the total oxygen
content of the sample. The solid circles are taken from Pekker _et al._
(Ref. [27]) (_y_total determined by weighing the sample) and the open
diamonds are the values obtained from the present work (_y_total
determined by the annealing temperature and oxygen partial pressure).

pret the minor splitting as a change of chain configuration. The
splitting implies a small variation of CF parameters _within the same
band_. This might be the result of inhomogeneity in the oxygen
concentration, which is consistent with a measured transition
temperature broadening ΔT_(c) 1 K. However, we do not think that the
sample is macroscopically phase separated since the line shapes were not
affected by cleaving the sample into smaller pieces.

Our ortho-II spectra suggest fairly good ordering within the chain
layers with a somewhat shorter correlation length in the ĉ direction.
This is in agreement with x-ray analysis.[16] The extraction of λ_(c) in
this sample was done by comparing two measurements in the â direction,
where the first measurement was done on the whole sample and the second
one on two pieces resulting from a cleave along the b̂ direction. The
effective penetration depth $\lambda_{\rm eff}$ was observed to increase
by about 210 nm due to the introduction of two more sample b̂ĉ faces,
where currents flow along the ĉ direction.

We have obtained enough data in order to reliably extract the absolute
values of the penetration depth in all three crystallographic directions
for three of the five doping levels studied: fully doped, ortho-II, and
ortho-III. Our measurements at the remaining two doping levels were made
using samples that were not amenable to the cleaving procedure required
to extract absolute values of λ. Our final results for λ were derived as
described in the previous sections with the emphasis on performing
enough measurements on the same sample in order to eliminate
sample-dependent effects and to overdetermine the values of λ for error
control. The penetration depth results are presented in Table 2. The
error estimates account for uncertainties arising from measurements of
the sample dimensions, calibration of the microwave absorption
experiment,[20] and the estimation of the ESR fit parameters. Since the
extraction of the penetration depth in the three crystallographic
directions depends sensitively on the sample’s dimensions, it is
important to work with crystals that have smooth parallel well defined
faces whose area is easy to measure. This was most easily achieved by
choosing a single sample having a nice platelet geometry for each
doping. If we restrict our analysis to measurements made on the same
crystal where the geometry of the sample can be altered in a controlled
fashion by cleaving, we obtain a high degree of internal consistency
between different measurements. In all cases we performed an extra
measurement that overdetermines the penetration depth values and found
agreement ranging from 0.5 to 6

Figure 10: The oxygen-overdoped Gd0.01Y0.99Ba2Cu3O6.993 sample ESR
absorption spectra in the â and b̂ directions. The b̂-axis data were
offset by 25 nm for clarity. The orthorhombicity of the crystal lattice
is apparent in the appearance of an additional ESR line at 6.9 GHz when
the screening currents flow in the b̂ direction. This line corresponds to
the ± 1/2 → ± 5/2 transition that is allowed along the b̂ direction,
generated by the orthorhombic Stevens operator B₂² =
(S_(â)² − S_(b̂)²)/2. This same line appears with suppressed intensity in
the â direction due to a small fraction of twinning in the sample. The
observed spectrum indicates a predominance of the G-band oxygen
configuration, as expected for a fully doped sample, with a 4

Figure 9: The oxygen doping evolution of the main CF parameter B₂⁰ in
MHz for the different bands. The open symbols are taken from Rockenbauer
_et al._ (Ref. [28]) and the stars are the ZF ESR best fit values. For
the ortho-III sample, where more than one set of CF parameters was found
for each line, we show the values closest to the previously measured
ones.

for the same crystal before and after cleaving the sample. Despite
changing the aspect ratio of the crystal by approximately 50

## VI Discussion

The results presented here have impact in two areas. First, we have
provided detailed information about the Gd_(x)Y_(1 − x)Ba₂Cu₃O_(6 + y)
system, namely, the crystal field parameters at the yttrium site and the
way in which oxygen orders into CuO chains. We have shown that our
crystal field parameters agree very well with those obtained by previous
authors using the completely different method of high field ESR on
powdered samples. Our results also support the conclusions of the same
work which found that isolated oxygens in vacant chains do not influence
the CF configuration around the magnetic ion and therefore cannot be
distinguished from a vacant chain via ESR spectroscopy. This is in
accord with the fact that isolated oxygens do not promote holes from the
copper-oxygen planes.[29]

The principal result of this work is a set of values for the penetration
depth in all three crystallographic directions for three oxygen-ordered
phases of YBa₂Cu₃O_(6 + y) which are summarized in Table II. The ĉ-axis
penetration depth is large and increases very rapidly with decreasing
doping, as observed previously in infrared measurements of λ_(c) by
Homes _et al.[10]_ The in-plane measurements are in accord with the
results of Sonier _et al.[4, 30]_ who performed μSR measurements on
mosaics of high-purity, detwinned single crystals at two other oxygen
dopings. The muon measurements are unable to directly determine
anisotropies, but they compare well with the geometric mean of the
$\widehat{ab}$-plane values reported here. A sample of YBa₂Cu₃O_(6.60)
with T_(c) = 59 K was found to have λ_(ab) = 170 nm,[30] very close to
the geometric

   Crystal structure   T_(c)(K)   Oxygen content   λ_(a)(nm)   λ_(b)(nm)   λ_(a)/λ_(b)   λ_(c)(nm)   
  ------------------- ---------- ---------------- ----------- ----------- ------------- ------------ --
        Ortho-I           89          6.995         103 ± 8     80 ± 5     1.29 ± 0.07    635 ± 50   
       Ortho-III          75           6.77        135 ± 13    116 ± 12    1.16 ± 0.12   2068 ± 200  
       Ortho-II           56           6.52        202 ± 22    140 ± 28    1.44 ± 0.26   7500 ± 480  

Table 2: Experimental values of the anisotropic magnetic penetration
depth extracted from four or more different measurements of
$\lambda_{\rm eff}$ on the same crystal, with the microwave field
applied in different directions and for different sample aspect ratios
achieved by cleaving. The uncertainty in the anisotropy is reduced since
some of the systematic contributions to the uncertainty in absolute
value cancel when comparing measurements on the same sample.

mean $\sqrt{\lambda_{a}\lambda_{b}}$= 168 +- 26 nm of the T_(c) = 56 K
sample studied here. An optimally doped sample of YBa₂Cu₃O_(6.95) with
T_(c) = 93 K had λ_(ab) = 112 nm, [4] which lies between the means of
the T_(c) = 75 K sample (125 +- 12 nm) and the overdoped T_(c) = 89 K
sample (91 +- 6 nm) studied here. The agreement reflects the particular
care taken in these μSR measurements to cover a wide range of applied
magnetic fields in order to ascertain the low field limiting values and
thus minimize the nonlinear, nonlocal, and other effects that can arise
in the vortex state. It must also be noted that the μSR measurements
hinge on a detailed model of the vortex lattice that provides a fit to
the field distribution detected by the muons.

These absolute values of penetration depth obtained in single crystals
are smaller than many measurements found in the existing literature on
YBa₂Cu₃O_(6 + γ). Magnetization studies of aligned powders by
Panagopoulos _et al._[8] gave 140 nm for T_(c) = 92, 210 nm for T_(c) =
66 and 280 nm for T_(c) = 56 (all +- 25

Much of the work on the doping dependence of λ_(ab) has relied on muon
spin relaxation measurements on polycrystalline samples. In these
measurements, the field inhomogeneity in the vortex state gives rise to
dephasing of the precessing spins of implanted muons. A Gaussian fit is
often used to extract a relaxation rate σ which is deemed proportional
to 1/λ². As long as the material is nearly two dimensional, the constant
of proportionality can be calculated to be σ = 7.09 ×10⁴A⁻², with σ in
μs⁻¹ and λ in nm. [33, 34] In the YBa₂Cu₃O_(6 + γ) system, this very
simple treatment of muon data gives values of λ_(ab) that are typically
20

Figure 12 displays T_(c) versus 1/λ², a plot first suggested by Uemura
_et al._[3] A long-accepted result has been a linear relationship
between these two quantities at low doping, followed by a plateau at
higher doping that varies from one cuprate system to another, inferred
mainly from μSR measurements on ceramics. [3] The data in Fig. 12
confirms the overall feature that 1/λ² increases with T_(c). However,
the linear regime at low doping, which implied a superfluid phase
stiffness proportional to T_(c) on the underdoped side of the cuprate
phase diagram, is not supported by the new data presented here, at least
for T_(c) ≥ 56 K. The measurements on YBa₂Cu₃O_(6.993), which is
slightly past optimal doping, are certainly up in the "plateau" regime
for this material and would not be expected to follow T_(c) ∝1/λ².
However, even

Figure 11: The main ESR line ± 5/2→ ± 7/2 in ortho-I, ortho-III, and
ortho-II. In each figure we overlay three or four measurements of the
same crystal in the â and b̂ directions, before and after cleaving the
sample. Each graph has been scaled by the effective penetration depth
$\lambda_{\rm eff}$ of the particular measurement so that only χ^(π) is
presented. The changes in $\lambda_{\rm eff}$ are due to the different
aspect ratios of the crystal before and after the cleave and the
different orientations of measurements.

for the lower two dopings with T_(c) = 56 K and T_(c) = 75 K the â-axis
phase stiffness, which avoids contributions associated with the CuO
chains, is still far from a relationship of the form T_(c) ∝ 1/Λ_(a)².
The plot instead suggests a sublinear dependence of T_(c) on 1/Λ_(a)²,
since T_(c) must fall to zero when 1/Λ² does. Further data at low doping
will be needed to clarify the relationship over the entire doping range.
Interestingly, the latest muon spin relaxation studies by Tallon _et
al._[36] also suggest a sublinear relationship, although the values of λ
in that study are significantly larger than the single crystal data
presented here. In the past, T_(c) ∝ 1/Λ² has been seen as evidence that
phase fluctuations play a central role in setting T_(c) on the
underdoped side of the cuprate phase diagram. [37] Indeed, the
relatively low values of phase stiffness in the cuprates, plus the
observation of critical fluctuations near the superconducting
transition, [38, 39] do indicate that phase fluctuations play a role in
determining T_(c) . However, the deviation from a linear relationship
seen in Fig. 12 suggests that other factors must also contribute to the
critical temperature. The obvious candidate is thermal excitation of
nodal quasiparticles, [40, 41, 42] which give rise to the linear
temperature dependence of λ (T) and rapidly deplete the superfluid
density as temperature rises. However, the central puzzle regarding the
correlation between superfluid density and T_(c) still remains in such a
scenario. As the doping decreases, the zero temperature value of the
superfluid density becomes much smaller, so that it becomes easy for
quasiparticle excitations, in addition to fluctuations, to drive the
material normal at a lower T_(c) . The mystery still lies in
understanding why the superfluid density becomes so small with
decreasing hole doping.

###### Acknowledgements.

The authors are grateful to P. Dosanjh for his technical assistance, and
are particularly indebted to A. Janossy for sharing his knowledge of Gd
ESR and providing Figs. 8 and 9. We are also grateful for useful
discussions with D. M. Broun, J. Sonier, I. Herbut, K. Moler, J.
Guikema, and S. Kivelson. This work was supported by the Natural Science
and Engineering Research Council of Canada and the Canadian Institute
for Advanced Research.

## Appendix: Extracting anisotropic λ values from multiple measurements

YBa₂Cu₃O_(6+, y) single crystals have strong natural cleave planes
perpendicular to both the [100] and [010] directions. Using this fact,
previous studies of the temperature dependence of λ have been successful
at separating the out-of-plane response from the in-plane response by
measuring a sample, cleaving it N times, and then repeating the
measurement with all of the pieces together. The second measurement
contains the same in-plane contribution, but has the ĉ-axis contribution
enhanced by a factor of N. [21] For practical reasons, in the present
work it was not possible to measure all of the crystal fragments
together following cleaving in all cases, instead we successively
measured each crystal after reducing the in-plane area. The ĉ-axis
thickness l_(c) of the crystal was unchanged for all measurements, but
the measurement of l_(c) retains the largest relative uncertainty
because l_(c) ≪l_(ab) . Since λ_(c) is also rather large, care must be
taken when combining measurements in order to minimize the impact of the
large relative uncertainty in the quantity l_(c)λ_(c) in Eq. (5). The
method we use here is to combine measurements of the _same crystal_ in
both â-axis and b̂-axis directions before and after cleaving where the
crystal’s aspect ratio has changed by approximately 50

$$\lambda_{\mathrm{eff}}^{a} = \frac{l_{a}[(1-t)\lambda_{a}+t\lambda_{b}]+l_{c}\lambda_{c}}{l_{a }+l_{c}}$$
$$\lambda_{\mathrm{eff}}^{b} = \frac{l_{b}[t\lambda_{a}+(1-t)\lambda_{b}]+l_{c}\lambda_{c}}{l_{b }+l_{c}}$$

which sum to give

$$\frac{l_{a}+l_{c}}{l_{a}}\lambda_{\mathrm{eff}}^{a}+\frac{l_{b}+l_{c}}{l_{b}} \lambda_{\mathrm{eff}}^{b} = \lambda_{a}+\lambda_{b}+\left\lfloor\frac{l_{c}}{l_{a}}+\frac{l_{c}}{l_{b}} \right\rfloor\lambda_{c}\,.$$
(1)

A second measurement with new dimensions l_(a)^(′) and l_(b)^(′) provide
a second expression having the same form as Eq. (1), and subtracting the
two eliminates λ_(a) and λ_(b) , leaving only λ_(c) in terms of measured
quantities. The values of λ_(a) and λ_(b) are then calculated from the
above expressions.

Figure 12: Measurements of the in-plane anisotropic absolute penetration
depth λ in YBa₂Cu₃O_(6+, y) for y = 0.52, y = 0.77, and y = 0.995
plotted as T_(c) versus superfluid phase stiffness (× 1/Λ²). Also shown
are the μSR measurements of Sonier _et al._ on single crystal mosaics.
The data do not support a case for scaling of T_(c) × 1/Λ_(a)² in this
doping range above T_(c) = 56 K.

Also at: Department of Earth and Ocean Sciences, University of British
Columbia, 6339 Stores Road, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada V6T 1Z4.

W.N. Hardy, D.A. Bonn, D.C. Morgan, Ruixing Liang, and Kuan Zhang, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **70**, 3999 (1993).

S. Kamal, D.A. Bonn, Nigel Goldenfeld, P.J. Hirschfeld, R. Liang, and
W.N. Hardy, Phys. Rev. Lett. **73**, 1845 (1994).

Y.J. Uemura, G.M. Luke, B.J. Sternlieb, J.H. Brewer, J.F. Carolan, W.N.
Hardy, R. Kadono, J.R. Kempton, R.F. Kiefl, S.R. Kreitzman, P. Mulhern,
T.M. Riseman, D.L. Williams, B.X. Yang, S. Uchida, H. Takagi, J.
Gopalakrishnan, A.W. Sleight, M.A. Subramanian, C.L. Chien, M.Z.
Cieplak, Gang Xiao, V.Y. Lee, B.W. Statt, C.E. Stronach, W.J. Kossler,
and X.H. Yu, Phys. Rev. Lett. **62**, 2317 (1989).

J.E. Sonier, J.H. Brewer, and R.F. Kiefl, Rev. Mod. Phys. **72**, 769
(2000).

J.W. Guikema, J.H. Bluhm, D.A. Bonn, Ruixing Liang, W.N. Hardy, and K.A.
Moler (unpublished).

L. Krusin-Elbaum, R.L. Greene, F. Holtzberg, A.P. Malozemoff, and Y.
Yeshurun, Phys. Rev. Lett. **62**, 217 (1989).

A. Carrington, R.W. Giannetta, J.T. Kim, and J. Giapintzakis, Phys. Rev.
B **59**, 14 173 (1999).

C. Panagopoulos, J.R. Cooper, and T. Xiang, Phys. Rev. B **57**, 13 422
(1998).

Ju Young Lee, Kathleen M. Paget, Thomas R. Lemberger, S.R. Foltyn, and
Xindi Wu, Phys. Rev. B **50**, 3337 (1994).

C.C. Homes, T. Timusk, D.A. Bonn, R. Liang, and W.N. Hardy, Physica C
**254**, 265 (1995).

D.N. Basov, R. Liang, D.A. Bonn, W.N. Hardy, B. Dabrowski, M. Quijada,
D.B. Tanner, J.P. Rice, D.M. Ginsberg, and T. Timusk, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**74**, 598 (1995).

P.J. Hirschfeld and W.A. Atkinson, J. Low Temp. Phys. **127**, 289
(2002).

D.A. Bonn, S. Kamal, Kuan Zhang, Ruixing Liang, D.J. Baar, E. Klein, and
W.N. Hardy, Phys. Rev. B **50**, 4051 (1994).

D.A. Bonn, S. Kamal, A. Bonakdarpour, R. Liang, W.N. Hardy, C.C. Homes,
D.N. Basov, and T. Timusk, Czech. J. Phys. **46**, 3195 (1996).

Ruixing Liang, W.N. Hardy, and D.A. Bonn, Physica C **304**, 105 (1998).

Ruixing Liang, W.N. Hardy, and D.A. Bonn, Physica C **336**, 57 (2000).

P. Manca, S. Sanna, G. Calestani, A. Migliori, S. Lapinskas, and E.E.
Tornau, Phys. Rev. B **63**, 134512 (2001).

M.v. Zimmermann, J.R. Schneider, T. Frello, N.H. Andersen, J. Madsen, M.
Kall, H.F. Poulsen, R. Liang, P. Dosanjh, and W.N. Hardy, Phys. Rev. B
**68**, 104515 (2003).

J.L. Pouchou and F. Pichoir, Microbeam Anal. **20**, 105 (1985).

P.J. Turner, D.M. Broun, Saeid Kamal, M.E. Hayden, J.S. Bobowski, R.
Harris, D.C. Morgan, J.S. Preston, D.A. Bonn, and W.N. Hardy, Rev. Sci.
Instrum. **75**, 124 (2004).

A. Hosseini, R. Harris, Saeid Kamal, P. Dosanjh, J. Preston, Ruixing
Liang, W.N. Hardy, and D.A. Bonn, Phys. Rev. B **60**, 1349 (1999).

P.J. Turner, R. Harris, Saeid Kamal, M.E. Hayden, D.M. Broun, D.C.
Morgan, A. Hosseini, P. Dosanjh, G.K. Mullins, J.S. Preston, Ruixing
Liang, D.A. Bonn, and W.N. Hardy, Phys. Rev. Lett. **90**, 237005
(2003).

R. Prozorov, R.W. Giannetta, P. Fournier, and R.L. Greene, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **85**, 3700 (2000).

¹⁸⁵Gd and ¹⁵⁷Gd each have nuclear spin l = 3/2 and natural abundances of
14.80 and 15.65

A. Abragam and B. Bleaney, _Electron Paramagnetic Resonance of
Transition Ions_ (Clarendon Press, Oxford, 1970).

A. Janossy, A. Rockenbauer, S. Pekker, G. Oszlanyi, G. Faigel, and L.
Korecz, Physica C **171**, 457 (1990).

S. Pekker, A. Janossy, and A. Rockenbauer, Physica C **181**, 11 (1991).

A. Rockenbauer, A. Janossy, L. Krecz, and S. Pekker, J. Magn. Reson.
**97**, 540 (1992).

J. Zaanen, A.T. Paxton, O. Jepsen, and O.K. Andersen, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**60**, 2685 (1988).

J.E. Sonier, J.H. Brewer, R.F. Kiefl, D.A. Bonn, S.R. Dunsiger, W.N.
Hardy, Ruixing Liang, W.A. MacFarlane, R.I. Miller, T.M. Riseman, D.R.
Noakes, C.E. Stronach, and M.F. White, Jr., Phys. Rev. Lett. **79**,
2875 (1997).

W.A. Atkinson, Phys. Rev. B **59**, 3377 (1999).

J.L. Tallon, C. Bernhard, U. Binninger, A. Hofer, G.V.M. Williams, E.J.
Ansaldo, J.I. Budnick, and Ch. Niedermayer, Phys. Rev. Lett. **74**,
1008 (1995).

C. Bernhard, Ch. Niedermayer, U. Binninger, A. Hofer, Ch. Wenger, J.L.
Tallon, G.V.M. Williams, E.J. Ansaldo, J.I. Budnick, C.E. Stronach, D.R.
Noakes, and M.A. Blankson-Mills, Phys. Rev. B **52**, 10 488 (1995).

W. Bardford and J.M.F. Gunn, Physica C **156**, 515 (1988).

B. Pumping, H. Keller, W. Kundig, W. Odermatt, I.M. Savic, J.W.
Schneider, H. Simmler, P. Zimmermann, E. Kaldis, S. Rusiecki, Y. Maeno,
and C. Rossel, Phys. Rev. B **42**, 8019 (1990).

J.L. Tallon, J.W. Loram, J.R. Cooper, C. Panagopoulos, and C. Bernhard,
Phys. Rev. B **68**, 180501 (2003).

V. Emery and S. Kivelson, Nature (London) **374**, 434 (1995).

S. Kamal, D.A. Bonn, N. Goldenfeld, P.J. Hirschfeld, Ruixing Liang, and
W.N. Hardy, Phys. Rev. Lett. **73**, 1845 (1994).

V. Psaler, P. Schweiss, C. Meingast, P. Obst, H. Wuhl, A.I. Rykov, and
S. Tajima, Phys. Rev. Lett. **81**, 1094 (1998).

D.J. Scalapino, Phys. Rep. **250**, 329 (1995).

M. Prohammer and J.P. Carbotte, Phys. Rev. B **43**, 5370 (1991).

Patrick A. Lee and Xiao-Gang Wen, Phys. Rev. Lett. **78**, 4111 (1997).
