# Anisotropic pressure dependence of the resistivity in YBa2Cu4O8

B. Bucher, J. Karpinski, E. Kaldis, and P. Wachter

Laboratorium fur Festkorperphysik, Eidgenossische Technische Hochschule
Zurich, 8093 Zurich, Switzerland

21 February 1995; revised manuscript received 23 May 1995

###### Abstract

The anisotropic pressure dependence of the resistivity of YBa2Cu4O8 has
been determined for the two plane directions a and b. The resistivity in
a direction, r_(a) , reflecting CuO2 planes, revealed a strong pressure
dependence d ln_b_/_dp_ = 13 x 10-3 kbar-1. In the stiffer b direction
with two conduction channels, along CuO chains and CuO2 planes, a
smaller decrease upon pressure but the strongest change with respect to
the lattice contraction was found. The pressure dependence observed can
be explained by a charge transfer from chains to planes.

The discovery of the ceramic high-temperature superconductors (HTSC) by
Bednorz and Muller [1] has not only enhanced the critical temperature
T_(c) than also revealed unusual normal-state properties such as a
linear resistivity in function of temperature, an opening of a spin gap
above T_(c) in underdoped substances, etc. Another amazing feature of
the HTSC’s is the strong pressure dependence [2] of T_(c) . Conventional
BCS superconductors have a pressure dependence of T_(c) in the order of
_dT__c_/_dp_ = 0.01 K/kbar. [3] In contrast we have found _dT__c_/_dp_ =
0.56 K/kbar in YBa2Cu4O8 (Ref. [4]) together with the high T_(c) = 80 K.
Also the resistivity of the HTSC’s shows a strong pressure dependence.
For metals, relative pressure derivatives _d_ln_b_/_dp_ in the order of
0.001 kbar-1 have been reported. [5] As we show below HTSC’s reveal a
value of d ln_b_/_dp_/_n_ -0.013 kbar-1. In this paper we address the
nature of the strong pressure dependence of the resistivity and study
its correlation with the increase of T_(c) upon applied pressure.

YBa2Cu4O8 (1:2:4) has the same structure as YBa2Cu3O7 (1:2:3) except the
single CuO chain along the b direction which is replaced by a double CuO
chain. Oxygen atoms in the double CuO chain are higher coordinated
giving rise to an enhanced stability of the oxygen stoichiometry. In
fact, it is hardly possible to extract any oxygen out of 1:2:4 below the
melting point of the substance. [6] Because of that 1:2:4 is genuinely
untwinned as it never undergoes the tetragonal orthorhombic phase
transition which is responsible for the twinning in 1:2:3. Untwinned
1:2:3 which could be prepared by annealing under uniaxial stress is only
meta-stable, preventing the study of the anisotropic components under
pressure.

As the mechanism responsible for superconductivity is concealed by the
excess carrier density in highly doped HTSC’s, modestly doped samples
should be preferred for unraveling the basic physics. A fingerprint of
underdoped HTSC’s is an opening of a spin gap above T_(c) and a magnetic
susceptibility increasing with temperature. Both signatures have been
found in 1:2:4 by means of the spin Knight shift, [7] the spin-lattice
relaxation time T1, [8] and the resistivity. [9] Unfortunately, with the
exception of 1:2:4, underdoped samples are nonstoichiometric compounds
and, therefore, contaminated with vacancies, lattice distortions, etc.

The response of the double CuO2 planes contains the basic information
about superconductivity. Any influence of the other block layers (e.g.,
BiO or HgO sheets) on the experiment should be discriminated. The
crystal structure of 1:2:4 does not contain block layers. Anisotropic
measurements along the a direction of 1:2:4 (perpendicular to CuO chain)
reveal the response of the superconducting double CuO2 planes alone.
Hence 1:2:4 makes it possible to study a simultaneously stoichiometric,
underdoped, and genuinely untwinned HTSC at applied pressure.

We present the anisotropic pressure dependence of the resistivity
components along the two plane directions a and b of YBa2Cu4O8. The a
direction shows a strong decrease of r_(a) under pressure. For the b
direction we have found a smaller decrease of the absolute value of the
resistivity but the strongest change with respect to the compression of
the lattice constant.

Single crystalline YBa2Cu4O8 was grown at 900 bars O2 and 1050 degC,
using a BaO-CuO-rich flux. The dimensions of the untwinned single
crystals were about 0.5 x 0.5 x 0.1 mm3. Gold pads had been sputter
deposited using photolithographically produced masks. After an annealing
at 500 degC for two hours, gold wires were attached by gold epoxy. The
contact resistance was in the order of 1 Ω.

For the high-pressure experiments at room temperature, a piston cylinder
equipment was used. The sample was inserted into a Teflon cell filled
with the pressure transmitting medium n-pentane - isoamylalcohol. Pieces
of pyrophylite were used as a gasket material. The pressure was
determined _in situ_ by means of a manganin coil.

In Fig. 1, we show the normalized, anisotropic pressure dependence of
the resistivity of the two plane directions a and b at 300 K. A change
of the measured sample resistance upon pressure can be assigned
principally to two different effects. First, the length and area of the
sample are compressed changing the geometry of the sample. The second
effect is the intrinsic change of the resistivity due to, e,g., a
changed scattering rate or an enhanced carrier density. [10] As we are
interested in the intrinsic change of the resistivity, _r_(_p_), of
1:2:4 upon applied pressure we have to compensate the influence of the
volume compression on the sample resistance. A first-order correction
for an orthorhombic crystal structure is given by
$$\frac{\rho(p)}{\rho_{0}}=\frac{R(p)}{R_{0}}[1+(\beta_{1}^{\perp}+\beta_{2}^{\perp }-\beta^{\parallel})p]\ ,$$
(1)

where β_(i)^(⊥) and β^(∥) are the coefficients of linear compressibility
for the directions perpendicular and parallel to the current,
respectively. R(p) is the experimental resistance as a function of
pressure. R₀ and ρ₀ are the resistance and resistivity at zero pressure,
respectively. The data in Fig. 1 have been corrected using the linear
compressibilities listed in Table 1.

The change of resistance is not linear with applied pressure. In the b
direction two parallel conduction channels are present: CuO₂ planes and
the CuO chains. Exploiting the model of two shunted conduction channels
for the current I  ∥ b axis, one can extract the pressure dependence of
the resistivity of CuO chains alone

$$\frac{1}{\rho_{\rm chain}}=\frac{1}{\rho_{b}}-\frac{1}{\rho_{\rm plane}}$$
(2)

making use of the relation $\rho_{\rm plane}$= ρ_(a). Within this model
the _temperature dependence_ of $\rho_{\rm chain}$(_T_) at ambient
pressure has been shown [12] to be quadratic, i.e., $\rho_{\rm chain}$=
A_T_² with the constant A = 2.3× 10⁻³μO cm/K². The calculated _pressure
dependence_ of $\rho_{\rm chain}$ shows a nearly linear behavior in
function of pressure, implying a rate of decrease for the constant A of
dA/dp = − 1.1× 10⁻⁵μOΓ/K² kbar. The relative change of ρ(p) with respect
to the reduced lattice constant is a factor of 2 higher for the b than
for the a direction (see Table 1). In the inset to Fig. 1 we plotted the
absolute change of the resistivities.

There are several approaches to explain the change of resistivities
under pressure. Assuming that electron-phonon scattering does prevail,
the resistivity decreases upon high pressure because the Debye
temperature becomes enhanced with the hardening of the phonon
frequencies. Near and above the Debye temperature Θ_(D) one finds ρ∝
_T_/Θ_(D)². The change of the resistivity under pressure can then be
expressed as

$$\frac{d{\rm ln}\rho}{d{\rm ln}V}=-2\frac{d{\rm ln}\Theta_{D}}{d{\rm ln}V}=-2\ \gamma\ ^{p}$$
(3)

with γ ^(p) the Gruneisen constant. With a change of the average
resistivity of $d{\rm ln}\rho$/$d{\rm ln}V$≈ 10 one finds γ ^(p≈)5. An
independent determination of γ is possible on the basis of elastic and
thermodynamic quantities. Thermodynamics defines $\gamma^{\rm h}$=
$\alpha_{\rm y}BV_{m}/C_{p}$ with $\alpha_{\rm y}$ the thermal expansion
coefficient, C_(p) the specific heat, B the bulk modulus, and V_(m) the
molar volume. With the data for YBa₂Cu₄O₈, [13] the Gruneisen constant
$\gamma^{\rm h}$ takes on the value 1.65. The discrepancy between the
thermodynamic Gruneisen constant ($\gamma^{\rm h}$=1.65) and the value
deduced from the high-pressure experiment (γ ^(p≈)5) seems significant.

Another approach starts with the idea that the carrier density or doping
level of CuO₂ planes changes with applied pressure. For the resistivity
we set

$$\rho\times\frac{m\ast}{n\,\tau}$$
(4)

with m* the effective mass, n the carrier density, and τ the relaxation
time. The pressure dependence of the plane resistivity ρ_(a) is then
given as

$$\frac{d{\rm ln}\rho_{a}}{dp}=\frac{d{\rm ln}m\ast}{dp}-\frac{d{\rm ln}n}{dp}- \frac{d{\rm ln}\tau}{dp}.$$
(5)

Zimmermann _et al._[14] determined experimentally the absolute charge
transfer from CuO chains to CuO₂ planes by measuring the shift of the Cu
nuclear quadrupole resonance in 1:2:4 under pressure. They extracted
$d{\rm ln}n$/dp≈ 10× 10⁻³ kbar⁻¹. The density of free carriers at zero
pressure was set as 0.1 carrier per plane Cu(2). [15] Scholtz _et
al._[16] deduced the value 9×10⁻³ kbar⁻¹ from their measurements of
critical temperature T_(c) and upper critical field H_(c2) under
pressure.

In Eq. 5, the change of the carrier density alone accounts for
$d{\rm ln}\rho_{a}$/dp≈−10×10⁻³ kbar⁻¹[Eq. (5)] of the experimental
value − 13× 10⁻³ kbar⁻¹. The incorporation of an enhanced relaxation
time may explain the small difference: the relaxation time is mainly of
a magnetic nature [9] and it is

Figure 1: Pressure dependence of the normalized resistivity of YBa₂Cu₄O₈
at 300 K for the two plane directions: ρ_(a) (solid line); ρ_(b) (dashed
line). The resistivities are volume corrected due to Eq. (1). Also
depicted is the calculated [Eq. (2)] resistivity of the CuO chain alone
(dotted line). The inset shows the absolute change of resistivity.

reasonable to assume that the increased carrier density screens more
effectively the spin fluctuations.

One can test if the model of charge transfer also explains the pressure
dependence of T_(c). It is well known that the critical temperature
T_(c) of the HTSC’s is governed by the concentration of doped carriers
in CuO₂ planes. The functional relation of T_(c) and doping level can
roughly be approximated by the parabolic equation

T_(c)(x, p) = T_(co) − α[n(x, p) − n₀]²
(6)

and

$$\frac{dT_{c}}{dp}=-2\,\alpha[n(x,p)-n_{0}]\frac{dn(x,p)}{dp},$$
(7)

where n(x, p) is the number of carrier density per CuO₂ plane, n₀ is the
doping level with the maximum T_(c) , x a chemical stoichiometry
parameter, and p the external pressure. For 1:2:4 one can extract[17]
the parameters n₀ = 0.17, T_(co) = 92 K, and α = 2300. Comparing to
equivalently underdoped 1:2:3, the carrier concentration of 1:2:4 can be
assigned to n = 0.1. The resistivity data above suggest the charge
transfer dn/dp ≈ 0.001 carrier/kbar. Using Eq. (7) the calculated
pressure dependence, dT_(c)/dp, gives 0.32 K/kbar. The experimental
value dT_(c)/dp = 0.56 K/kbar is a factor 1.75 higher.

The concept of a charge transfer or better the absence of a charge
transfer is also appropriate for the electron-doped substances.
R_(2 − x)Ce_(x)CuO_(4 − y) (R =  Pr, Nd, and Sm) has no apical oxygen
over which the charge transfer is expected to take place.[18] The
in-plane resistivity shows indeed only a modest pressure dependence[19]
as does the pressure dependence of T_(c) . However Tozer _et al.[20]_
have shown that more subtle effects than the charge transfer become
crucial in the YBaCuO family on extending the pressure range to several
tens of kbar.

In summary we presented anisotropic measurements of the resistivity
tensor of the two plane directions of YBa₂Cu₄O₈ upon pressure. The
superconducting CuO₂ plane, i.e., ρ_(a) revealed a strong decrease of
the resistivity as pressure is increased. The change of resistivity is
an order of magnitude higher than for a conventional metal. For the b
direction the absolute decrease is smaller but the relative change with
respect to the compression of the lattice constant is the strongest one.

## References

* [1] J.G. Bednorz and K.A. Muller, Z. Phys. B **64**, 189 (1986). * [2]
See, for example, J.S. Schilling and S. Klotz, in _Physical Properties
of High Temperature Superconductors_, edited by D.M. Ginsberg (World
Scientific, Singapore, 1992), Vol. 3. * [3] S.V. Vonsovsky, Yu.A.
Izyumov, and E.Z. Kurmaev, in _Superconductivity in Transition Metals_,
edited by M. Cardona, Springer Series in Solid State Sciences, Vol. 27
(Springer, Heidelberg, 1982). Lanthanum has been regarded as an exotic
substance because of the high dT_(c)/dp = 0.1 K/kbar. * [4] B. Bucher
_et al._, Physica C **157**, 478 (1989). * [5] P.W. Bridgman, _The
Physics of High Pressure_ (Dover, New York, 1970). * [6] J. Karpinski
_et al._, Nature (London) **336**, 660 (1988). * [7] H. Zimmermann _et
al._, J. Less-Common Met. **164&165**, 138 (1990). * [8] H. Zimmermann
_et al._, Physica C **159**, 681 (1989). * [9] B. Bucher _et al._, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **70**, 2012 (1993). * [10] In semiconductors, the decrease
of the resistivity under pressure is mainly due to an exponential
enhancement of the carrier density as the gap closes linearly. In
conventional metals, the Debye temperature Θ_(D) , i.e., the average
phonon frequency, increases under pressure and, therefore, a reduced
scattering results since the phonons are less thermally populated. *
[11] H.A. Ludwig _et al._, Physica C **167**, 335 (1990). * [12] B.
Bucher and P. Wachter, Phys. Rev. B **51**, 3309 (1995). * [13] The bulk
modulus is 1120 kbar (Ref. [11]); the thermal expansitivities α are
taken from Alexandrov _et al._, Physica C **172**, 491 (1991); the
specific heat at 300 K is 22 J/g at. K [Junod _et al._, Physica C
**168**, 47 (1990)]. * [14] H. Zimmermann _et al._, J. Less-Common Met.
**164&165**, 132 (1990); H. Zimmermann, Ph.D. thesis, University of
Zurich, Switzerland, 1991. * [15] A carrier density of 0.1 reflects the
underdoped regime of 1:2:4. It is comparable to the value of an
underdoped 1:2:3 which shows similar physical characteristics due to the
low doping level. * [16] J.J. Scholz _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **45**, 3077
(1992). * [17] M.H. Shafer and T. Penny, Eur. J. Solid State Inorg.
Chem. **27**, 191 (1990). * [18] The carrier concentration can be
adjusted only by the stoichiometry, i.e., x and y. * [19] M.A. Crusellas
_et al._, Phys. Rev. B **48**, 615 (1993). * [20] S.W. Tozer, J.L.
Koston, and E.M. McCarron, Phys. Rev. B **47**, 8089 (1993).
