# Probing the vortex state of PrRu₄Sb₁₂ through muon spin rotation and
relaxation

D. T. Adroja,¹ A. D. Hillier,¹ J.-G. Park,² E. A. Goremychkin,^(1, 3) K.
A. McEwen,⁴ N. Takeda,⁵ R. Osborn,³ B. D. Rainford,⁶ R. M. Ibberson¹

¹ISIS Facility, Rutherford Appleton Laboratory, Chilton, Didcot,
Oxfordshire, OX11 0QX, United Kingdom

²Department of Physics and Institute of Basic Sciences, SungKyunKwan
University, Suwon 440-746, Korea

and Center for Strongly Correlated Materials Research, Seoul National
University, Seoul 151-747, Korea

³Materials Science Division, Argonne National Laboratory, Argonne,
Illinois 60439, USA

⁴Department of Physics and Astronomy, University College London, Gower
Street, London WC1E 6BT, United Kingdom

⁵Faculty of Engineering, Niigata University, Niigata, 950-2181, Japan

⁶Department of Physics, Southampton University, Southampton, SO17 1BJ,
United Kingdom

###### Abstract

We have investigated the magnetic penetration depth λ and the
superconducting coherence length ξ in the vortex lattice of the filled
skutterudite compound PrRu₄Sb₁₂ (T_(c)∼ 0.97 K) using transverse-field
muon-spin rotation measurements. Zero-field and longitudinal-field
studies were also carried out to investigate the time-reversal symmetry
of the superconducting state. We found λ = 3650(20) A and ξ=345(5) A at
0.05 K and using these values of λ and ξ, together with the Sommerfeld
constant we have calculated an effective mass of the quasiparticles
m^(*)≈ 10m_(r) and superfluid carrier density n_(s)≈ 4× 10²⁷
carriers/m³. The temperature dependence of the vortex state muon-spin
relaxation rate σ_(s)(T) is consistent with the phenomenological
two-fluid model. Further, the zero-field and longitudinal field
measurements do not reveal any signature of a spontaneous internal
magnetic field below the superconducting transition temperature,
indicating the preservation of time-reversal symmetry in the
superconducting state of PrRu₄Sb₁₂, unlike the broken time-reversal
symmetry of the superconducting state of the heavy-fermion
superconductor PrOs₄Sb₁₂.

10.1103/PhysRevB.72.184503 PACS number(s): 74.25.Nf, 74.70.Tx, 75.30.Mb,
76.75.+i + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL REVIEW B **72**, 184503 (2005)

## I Introduction

The filled skutterudite compounds of the type RT₄M₁₂ (R= rare earth, T=
Fe, Ru, and Os, and M= P, Sb, and As), which exhibit the simple
body-centered cubic structure (space group Im-3), have recently
attracted considerable interest because of the various properties
exhibited by many members of this class, such as unconventional
superconductivity, metal-insulator transitions, heavy Fermion behavior,
quadrupolar ordering and hybridization gap semiconductivity [1, 2, 3, 4,
5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15]. In addition to the interest in
their basic condensed matter physics, these compounds are excellent
candidates for future solid state thermoelectric device technology.

Among the rare-earth filled skutterudites, the Pr-based compounds
PrT₄M₁₂ are of particular interest as Pr³⁺ ions can have a magnetic or
nonmagnetic ground state [6, 7, 8]. The latter can be either a
nonmagnetic singlet (Γ₁) or a nonmagnetic doublet (Γ₃) with a finite
quadrupole moment (we will use the more familiar group theory labels for
O_(h) point group symmetry; see Ref. [11] to see how they map onto T_(h)
groups). Interestingly, superconductivity has been observed in the La
and Pr-based filled skutterudite compounds with the highest T_(c) of
10.3 K for LaRu₄As₁₂ and 2.4 K for PrRu₄As₁₂[9]. Superconductivity is
also observed in the ruthenium antimonide skutterudite compounds with
T_(c)=2.8 K for LaRu₄Sb₁₂ and 1 K of PrRu₄Sb₁₂[3, 10]. It is interesting
to note that PrOs₄Sb₁₂ becomes a superconductor at 1.85 K, which is
higher than that of its nonmagnetic analog LaOs₄Sb₁₂ (T_(c)=0.74 K).
This unusual feature has been attributed to the effects of quadrupolar
fluctuations on the pairing mechanism in PrOs₄Sb₁₂[12, 13, 14, 15, 16,
17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34,
35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52,
53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58, 59, 60, 61, It is therefore interesting to see
whether or not the microscopic nature of the superconducting state in
PrRu₄Sb₁₂ is similar to that of PrOs₄Sb₁₂. The muon-spin rotation (μ⁺SR)
technique provides sensitive measurements of the microscopic field
distribution inside a type-II superconductor,[18, 19] e.g., the magnetic
penetration depth λ that is one of the fundamental length scales of
superconductors. It can be further used to determine the symmetry of the
superconducting order parameter. Although the penetration depth of
Pr(Os_(1 − x)Ru_(x))₄Sb₁₂ (x=0−1) was previously measured through tunnel
diode oscillator measurements, this is a less accurate method to
estimate reliable absolute values of the penetration depth because of
the limitations of the technique.[20, 21] In this paper, we have
therefore carried out μSR measurements on PrRu₄Sb₁₂ in zero-field (ZF),
longitudinal-field (LF), and transverse-field (TF) configurations to
characterize the properties of the superconducting state of PrRu₄Sb₁₂.

## II Experiments

Our polycrystalline sample of PrRu₄Sb₁₂ was prepared by the flux growth
technique at the University of Tokyo as described in Ref. 3. The phase
purity of the sample was checked by powder neutron diffraction
measurements using the high resolution powder diffractometer (HRPD) at
the ISIS Pulsed Neutron and Muon Facility, UK. The positive muon
spin-relaxation (μ⁺SR) measurements were performed using the MUSR
spectrometer at ISIS. We have carried out ZF, LF, and TF μSR
measurements at temperatures ranging from 30 mK to 1.5 K. The sample was
fixed to a silver backing plate and mounted onto the cold finger of a
dilution refrigerator. The silver sample holder was used because it
gives a nonrelaxing muon signal and hence only contributes a temperature
independent constant background. In the TF measurements, the field was
applied at 1.5 K and then the sample was cooled down to 0.05 K at
constant applied magnetic field to avoid any effect due to flux
trapping. To analyze the TF data we have projected all the data from 32
detectors onto two histograms with orthogonal phases of 0 and π/2, using
the method outlined in Ref. 22. We refer to these histograms as the
"real" and "imaginary" components of the signal.

## III Results and Discussion

### Neutron diffraction

Rietveld analysis of our neutron-diffraction data using GSAS confirmed
that PrRu₄Sb₁₂ crystallises in the _Im_-3 space group and that the
sample was nearly single-phase with ∼6.7 and ∼0.6

### Muon spin rotation and relaxation

Figure 2 shows the zero-field and longitudinal-field (50 G)μSR spectra
at 0.03 and 1.5 K (i.e., below and above T_(c)) from PrRu₄Sb₁₂. The
field of 50 G was applied after cooling the sample in ZF to 0.03 K. The
most important result is that both the ZF and LF muon depolarization
rates show no temperature dependence, indicating that there is no
spontaneous internal magnetic field, and confirming that time-reversal
symmetry is preserved in the superconducting state of PrRu₄Sb₁₂. This is
in contrast to PrOs₄Sb₁₂, in which

Figure 1: Powder neutron diffraction pattern from PrRu₄Sb₁₂ taken at 300
K. Symbols are the data points while the line underneath them is the
refined profile. Three rows of vertical bars correspond to the phases of
PrRu₄Sb₁₂ (bottom), RuSb₂ (middle), and pure Sb-metal (top). The line at
the bottom represents the difference curve.

Figure 2: (Color online) Zero-field and 50 G longitudinal field μSR
spectra below and above the superconducting transition temperature
(T_(c)=0.97 K). The solid lines represent the fit to the function
described in the text.

the ZF μSR study clearly indicates a spontaneous static internal
magnetic field below T_(c), which has been interpreted as broken
time-reversal symmetry of the superconducting state.[16] When the
time-reversal symmetry is broken, the non-zero magnetic moments of
Cooper pairs that align locally are responsible for the spontaneous, but
extremely small, internal magnetic field below T_(c).[16] Further, we
also measured μSR spectra of PrRu₄Sb₁₂ in a 50 G field cooled (FC)
state. These results are indistinguishable from the zero-field cooled
data, indicating that the paramagnetic ground state persists down to
0.03 K.

Our ZF field μSR spectra were fitted using a product of Gaussian
Kubo-Toyabe and Lorentzian components. The former is attributed to
muon-spin relaxation due to the randomly oriented local fields caused by
nuclear moments and the latter to muon-spin relaxation due to electronic
fluctuations. For the 50 G LF data we used only the Lorentzian
component. In addition to this, a constant background component
$A_{\rm bg}$ was also added to account for muons stopping on the sample
holder and for possible impurity contributions. The form of the
relaxation function used in our analysis is

$$A_{\rm ZF}(t) = A_{0}\left\{\frac{1}{3}+\frac{2}{3}\left[1-(\sigma_{\rm KT}t)^{ 2}\exp\left(-\frac{1}{2}(\sigma_{\rm KT}t)^{2}\right)\right]\right\}$$
(1)
$$\times\exp(-\,\Lambda t)+A_{\rm bg}.$$

The values of the parameters obtained by simultaneous fitting of the
four spectra at 1.5 K 0.03 K shown in Fig. 2 are Gaussian Kubo-Toyabe
relaxation rate $\sigma_{\rm KT}$=0.245(3) μs⁻¹ 0.256(2), electronic
damping Λ = 0.106(4) μs⁻¹ 0.100(4) in zero-field, and Λ = 0.022(1) μs⁻¹
0.022(1) in 50 G longitudinal field. The estimated initial asymmetry is
A₀∼ 0.232(1) and the constant background $A_{\rm bg}$=0.020(1). It is
interesting to note that the ZF values of $\sigma_{\rm KT}$ and Λ
estimated for PrRu₄Sb₁₂ are very similar to those estimated for
PrOs₄Sb₁₂ (above T_(c)), $\sigma_{\rm KT}$=0.19 μs⁻¹ and Λ = 0.13
μs⁻¹.[17] The value of $A_{\rm bg}$ gives a background contribution of
8.62

In order to determine the magnetic penetration depth λ and the
superconducting coherence length ξ we have carried out TF-μSR
measurements at various applied magnetic fields between 0 and 700 G, at
0.05 and 1.5 K. Figures 3(a) and 3(b) show the TF-μSR muon-spin
precession signals, the real component (the imaginary component has not
been shown here), at an applied field of 200 G above and below the
superconducting transition temperature of PrRu₄Sb₁₂. A clear difference
in the relaxation rate above and below T_(c) can be seen from the data
in Figs. 3(a) and 3(b). This is due to the well-known fact that type-II
superconductors exhibit a flux-line lattice (FLL) state at an applied
field B_(c1)<B<B_(c2) (below T_(c)) leading to spatial inhomogeneity of
the magnetic induction. Since the implanted muons experience random
precessions over the length scale of the FLL, the observed precession
signal is a spatial sum of the internal fields. In a polycrystalline
sample the Gaussian field distribution of local fields is to a good
approximation[18]

σ = γ_(μλ)⟨⟨(ΔB²)⟩,
(2)

where ⟨(ΔB²)⟩ is the average of the second moment of the field
distribution (⟨ΔB²⟩=⟨[B(r) − B₀]²⟩), with B₀ the applied

Figure 3: (Color online) (a),(b) Transverse-field (TF) μSR spin
precession signals from PrRu₄Sb₁₂ obtained under an applied field of 200
G. Here we have shown only the real component: (a) in the normal state
at 1.5 K and (b) in the superconducting state at 0.05 K. The weakly
nonrelaxing signal at longer time seen in (b) is due to muons stopping
on the sample holder and nonsuperconducting impurities. The solid line
represents the fit (see the text). (c),(d) Probability field
distribution p(B) of the internal magnetic field obtained using the
maximum entropy method in PrRu₄Sb₁₂ at 1.5 and 0.05 K. The sharp peak on
the right-hand side at 0.05 K is due to the background signal. The solid
line represents a Gaussian fit to the data and the dotted line shows the
components of the fit.

field, and γ_(μ)/(2 π) = 135.53(MHz/_T_) is the gyromagnetic ratio of
the muon. To estimate ((ΔB²)) it is a common practice to assume a
Gaussian distribution of local fields, where the time dependence of the
muon spin polarization is proportional to exp [−(σ_(s)t)²/2], and σ_(s)
is the muon depolarization rate.[23] In order to check that the internal
field distribution in our sample has a Gaussian line shape, we have used
the maximum-entropy method to estimate the probability distribution of
the internal magnetic field at 1.5 and 0.05 K [Figs. 3(c) and 3(d)].[24]
Above T_(c) the line shape is Gaussian (the solid line shows the fitted
results) and centered at the applied field, due to the uniform field
penetration in the sample. Below T_(c), two Gaussian components are
observed due to the inhomogeneous field distribution in the
superconducting FLL state, which has a large second moment (⟨ΔB²⟩), and
in the nonsuperconducting background part. This increase in (⟨ΔB²⟩), in
turn, gives rise to the large value of the muon-spin depolarization rate
below T_(c) and is related to the magnetic penetration depth. For a
triangular lattice[18; 20]

$$\langle(\Delta B^{2})\rangle=\left(0.00371\frac{\phi_{0}^{2}}{\lambda^{4}} \right),$$
(3)

where ϕ₀= 2.07 x 10⁻¹⁵ T m² is the flux quantum. As with other
phenomenological parameters characterizing a superconducting state, the
penetration depth can also be related to quantities at the atomic level.
Using London theory[18]

$$\lambda^{2}=\frac{m^{*}c^{2}}{4\,\pi n_{s}e^{2}},$$
(4)

where m^(*) is the effective mass and n_(s) is the density of
superconducting carriers. Within this simple picture, λ is independent
of magnetic field.

The analysis of our TF-μSR data was carried out in the time domain using
the following functional form:

$$A_{\rm TF}(t) = A_{0}\exp\left(-\,\frac{1}{2}(\sigma_{s}t)^{2}\right)\exp\left( -\,\frac{1}{2}(\sigma_{n}t)^{2}\right)$$
(5)
$$\times\exp(-\,\Lambda_{\rm TF}t)\cos(\omega t+\Phi_{1})$$
$$+\,A_{\rm bg}\cos(\omega_{\rm bg}t+\Phi_{2}),$$

where the first term is the contribution from the sample and the second
term the background contribution. A₀ and $A_{\rm bg}$ are the initial
asymmetries arising from the sample and background, respectively, while
σ_(n) and σ_(s) are the muon-spin relaxation rates in the normal state
and superconducting state, respectively. $\Lambda_{\rm TF}$ is the
relaxation rate due to electronic moments. ω and $\omega_{\rm bg}$ are
the muon precession frequencies in the sample and background component
with phase angle Φ₁ and Φ₂, respectively. It is to be noted that the
TF-μSR data of PrOs₄Sb₁₂ were fitted using only a Gaussian component
(i.e., keeping σ_(s)=0, and then these values of A₀, σ_(n), and
$\Lambda_{\rm TF}$ were kept fixed to estimate σ_(s) below T_(c). The
field dependence of the muon-spin relaxation rate (σ_(s)) obtained at
0.05 K in the FLL state, which is shown in Fig. 4, is nonlinear. A
similar field dependence has also been observed in PrOs₄Sb₁₂,[17]
YB₆,[25] and KOs₂O₆.[26] It was found that at 1.5 K σ_(n)(B) exhibits an
almost field independent behavior (these values were kept fixed at 0.05
K), but $\Lambda_{\rm TF}$ increases linearly with the applied magnetic
field at a rate ∼2 x 10⁻⁴μs⁻¹/G. At 1.5 K the estimated value of
$\Lambda_{\rm TF}$=0.032(6) at 100 G and 0.121(9) at 600 G. A similar
linear increase of σ_(n) (with $\Lambda_{\rm TF}$ assumed to be zero)
with applied field was also observed for PrOs₄Sb₁₂.[17]

We recall that the critical fields are directly related to the
fundamental superconducting parameters, the penetration depth λ and the
coherence length ξ, by the following relations:

B_(c2)(T) = (ϕ_(b)/2 π)1/ξ²(T)
(6)

and

B_(c1)(T) = (ϕ_(b)/4 π)1/λ²(T)ln (κ),
(7)

where κ=λ/ξ. For an applied field $B_{\rm app}$<B_(c2)/4 where the
simple London picture is valid, one can estimate λ from Eq. (3). This
method has been used for PrOs₄Sb₁₂ (B_(c2) ∼ 23 kOe), KOs₂O₆ (B_(c2) ∼
400 kOe), and high-temperature cuprate superconductors (B_(c2) ∼ 600
kOe).[17; 18; 26] Since the upper critical field B_(c2)=2 kOe of
PrRu₄Sb₁₂ is significantly smaller, we cannot apply the simple London
picture and relate the muon depolarization rate to λ as given by Eq.
(3). It is therefore necessary to use the field dependence of the
muon-depolarization rate to determine λ using the modified London
model[27]

$$\sigma_{s}(B)=\left(\frac{\gamma_{\mu}}{\sqrt{2}}\right)B_{0}\sum_{h,k}\left[ \frac{\exp(-\,\xi^{2}q_{h,k}^{2})}{[1+q_{h,k}^{2}\lambda^{2}/(1-B_{0}/B_{c2}) ^{2}]}\right]^{1/2}$$

with

Figure 4: (Color online) Field dependence of the muon spin relaxation
rate associated with the flux line lattice σ_(s) at 0.05 K from
PrRu₄Sb₁₂. The solid line represents the fit using the modified London
model of Eq. (8).

q_(h, k) ≠ 0 ,
(8)

where B₀ is an applied magnetic field and q_(h, k) the lattice sum over
the FLL. We have fitted the estimated values of σ_(s)(B) at 0.05 K to
Eq. (8) with λ and ξ as free parameters. In our analysis, we have taken
the lattice sum q_(h, k) over the hexagonal flux line lattice, which is
a reasonable assumption as the measured flux line lattice, using small
angle neutron scattering (SANS), in PrOs₄Sb₁₄ exhibits a distorted
hexagonal shape at low temperature.[28] The best fit to the data gave
λ = 3650(20) A and ξ = 345(5) A for PrRu₄Sb₁₂ and the quality of the fit
can be seen in Fig. 4. For comparison, the simpler picture expressed by
Eq. (3), yields a value of λ = 3610(16) A at 0.05 K.

It is interesting to compare the present value of λ and ξ with the
values estimated using other methods and also with those of PrOs₄Sb₁₂.
For PrRu₄Sb₁₂, the reported value of λ = 3200 A using the relation
$\lambda\!=\![\phi_{0}B_{c2}(0)]^{1/2}\!/[\sqrt{24}(\Delta(0)/k_{B}T_{c})\gamma ^{1/2}]$
and ξ = 400 A using the relation ξ² = [ϕ₀/2πB_(c2)(0)].[20] The tunnel
diode oscillator study gives λ = 2900 A,[20] which is smaller than the
above values. As mentioned previously, this may be due to the fact that
the tunnel diode oscillator value depends on a calibration constant. The
value of λ and ξ obtained from μSR measurements is more reliable than
that obtained from the bulk measurements, as μSR is a microscopic probe,
which directly probes the flux-line lattice in the superconducting
state, whose signal represents a simple average over different regions
of the sample. Therefore, the effect of inhomogeneity is less serious in
μSR than in bulk measurements. We therefore believe that the observed
differences in the value of λ are not due to the sample quality, but
most likely due to the accuracy of the methods used for the estimation.
Furthermore, one obtains λ(0) = 3440 A from μSR measurements and ξ = 116
A from B_(c2) for PrOs₄Sb₁₂.[17, 11]

Using our estimated value of λ ≃ (m^(*)/n_(s))^(1/2) and the heat
capacity coefficient λ ≃ m^(*)n_(s)^(1/3) from Ref. 3, along with the
assumption that roughly all the normal state carriers (n_(e)) contribute
to the superconductivity (i.e., n_(s) ∼ n_(e)), we have estimated the
values of m^(*) ≈ 10m_(e) and n_(s) ≈ 4 × 10²⁷ carriers/m³. This
indicates that PrRu₄Sb₁₂ is a good metal, in agreement with the observed
metallic resistivity behavior.[3] For comparison, the values for
PrOs₄Sb₁₂ are m^(*) = 50m_(e) and n_(s) = 10²⁸ carriers/m³.[17] The mean
free path λ estimated from the dHvA study is 1300 A for PrRu₄Sb₁₂ (Ref.
29) which implies that the sample is in the clean limit, i.e.,
(l/ξ ≈ 3.8 > 1, whereas l/ξ ≈ 3 for PrOs₄Sb₁₂, which validates the
thermodynamic relation used above to estimate the atomic parameters.

We also measured the temperature dependence of the FLL relaxation rate
σ_(s)(T) of PrRu₄Sb₁₂. Figure 5 shows the temperature dependence of
σ_(s)(T) in an applied magnetic field of 350 G. We have fitted the
σ_(s)(T) data to the phenomenological two-fluid
model,[30]σ_(s)(T) = σ_(s)(0)[1 − (T/T_(c))^(N)], with σ_(s)(0), T_(c)
and N as variable parameters. The best fit was obtained with
T_(c) = 0.973(2) K, σ_(s)(0) = 0.452(1)μs⁻¹, and N = 1.44(1) (solid line
in Fig. 5). The estimated value of T_(c) is in agreement with
T_(c) = 1.04 K (in zero field) reported in Ref. 3. It is worth pointing
out that there is no discrepancy between T_(c) estimated in the present
work and in Ref. 3. We determined T_(c) in our sample from the
temperature dependence of the penetration depth, which was measured in a
field of 350 G. According to Fig. 2 in Ref. 3, this field is sufficient
to suppress T_(c) by the required amount. The value of N obtained for
PrRu₄Sb₁₂ is much smaller than N = 4, which is expected for s-wave
isotropic gap superconductors (the dotted line in Fig. 5 shows the plot
with N = 4), and N = 3.6 observed for PrOs₄Sb₁₂. A smaller value of
N = 2.39 was also observed in KOs₂O₆, which has T_(c) = 8.91 K.[26] It
is to be noted that the muon depolarization rate σ_(s) does not depend
only on λ but also depends on ξ. A low value of κ(λ/ξ) results in the
overlapping of the flux lines in the FLL. This, clearly, leads to a
reduced measured value of σ_(s). Therefore the temperature dependence of
σ_(s) has been modelled using the modified London model [Eq. (8)] with
the temperature dependence form of λ and ξ predicted on the basis of the
two-fluid model. This provides a correction for the overlapping flux
lines in the FLL. The data are extremely well described for T < 0.6 K,
and the fit is shown by a dashed-dotted line in Fig. 5. However, for
T > 0.7 K the modified London model is no longer an adequate description
of the flux line lattice, due to a strongly increasing overlap of
vortices as we approach T_(c). We note that in the clean limit the size
of the vortex core region increases more rapidly with increasing
temperature than in the dirty limit.[18] As PrRu₄Sb₁₂ is in the clean
limit, one would expect strong overlap of the vortices as we approach
T_(c) and hence the modified London model is not adequate near T_(c).

## IV Conclusions

We have carried out μSR measurements to characterize the microscopic
nature of the superconducting state of PrRu₄Sb₁₂. Our zero-field and
longitudinal-field μSR studies

Figure 5: (Color online) Temperature dependence of the muon spin
relaxation rate associated with the flux line lattice σ_(s) in an
applied field of 350 G from PrRu₄Sb₁₂. The solid line represents the fit
based on the prediction of the phenomenological two-fluid model with
N = 1.44 and the dotted line is for N = 4 as expected for an isotropic
gap s-wave BCS superconductor. The dashed-dotted line represents the fit
based on the modified London model, Eq. (8) (see the text).

reveal that the superconducting state preserves time-reversal symmetry
in PrRu₄Sb₁₂, in contrast to the broken time-reversal symmetry reported
for the heavy-fermion superconductor PrO₄Sb₁₂. However, it needs to be
pointed out that the appearance of a static magnetic field below 2 K in
PrOs₄Sb₁₂ (Ref. [16]) could also be due to a rearrangement of the low
lying CF levels induced by the implanted positive muon (μ^(⋆)) as
observed in the singlet ground state compound PrNi₈[31]. In rare-earth
systems with a non-magnetic ground state, the exchange interaction
($J_{\rm ex}$) between f electrons competes with the CF splitting
($\Delta_{\rm CF}$). If $J_{\rm ex}/\Delta_{\rm CF}$< 1 the system will
remain paramagnetic (Van Vleck paramagnet) but if it is larger than one,
the system orders magnetically. PrOs₄Sb₁₂ is a Van Vleck paramagnet with
small value of $\Delta_{\rm CF}$=0.6 meV and therefore it is quite
possible that the implanted μ^(⋆) will lift the degeneracy of the
excited triplet and rearrange the low lying CF levels in such way that
the ratio $J_{\rm ex}/\Delta_{\rm CF}$ becomes greater than one,
creating local magnetic order. In the case of PrRu₄Sb₁₂,
$\Delta_{\rm CF}$ is an order of magnitude larger so the effect of the
implanted μ^(⋆) on the CF level scheme will be much weaker.

From the transverse-field μSR measurements, we estimated the magnetic
penetration depth λ = 3650(20) A and coherence length ξ = 345(5) A at
0.05 K and derived an effective quasiparticle mass m^(⋆) = 10$m_{\rm r}$
and superfluid carrier density n_(s) = 4 × 10²⁷ carriers/m³. The
temperature dependence of the vortex state muon-spin relaxation rate,
σ_(s)(T) is consistent with the phenomenological two-fluid model,
although the observed value of the exponent 1.44(1) is markedly smaller
than the value of 4 expected for an isotropic gap s-wave superconductor.
Furthermore, the observed temperature dependent behavior of σ_(s)(T)
agrees very well (below 0.6 K) with the modified London model. We have
compared the values of λ and ξ estimated from the μSR measurements with
that estimated using bulk measurements and also with the value for the
heavy-fermion superconductor PrOs₄Sb₁₂.

###### Acknowledgements.

We thank L. Chapon and W.A. Kockelmann for help with the neutron
diffraction data analysis and F. Pratt and S.L. Lee for useful
discussions on μSR results. One of us (J.G.P.) acknowledges financial
support of CSCMR. E.A.G. and R.O. were supported by the U.S. Department
of Energy, Office of Science, under Contract No. W-31-109-ENG-38.

## References

* (1) E. D. Bauer, N. A. Frederick, P.-C. Ho, V. S. Zapf, and M. B.
Maple, Phys. Rev. B **65**, 100506(R) (2002); C. R. Rotundu, H. Tsujii,
Y. Takano, B. Andraka, H. Sugawara, Y. Aoki, and H. Sato, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **92**, 037203 (2004). * (2) C. Sekine, T. Uchiumi, I. Shirotani,
and T. Yagi, Phys. Rev. Lett. **79**, 3218 (1997). * (3) N. Takeda and
M. Ishikawa, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **69**, 868 (2000). * (4) Y. Aoki, T.
Namiki, T. D. Matsuda, K. Abe, H. Sugawara, and H. Sato, Phys. Rev. B
**65**, 064446 (2002). * (5) D. T. Adroja, J.-G. Park, K. A. McEwen, N.
Takeda, M. Ishikawa, and J.-Y. So, Phys. Rev. B **68**, 094425 (2003). *
(6) T. Goto, Y. Nemoto, K. Sekine, T. Yamaguchi, M. Akatsu, T.
Yanagisawa, H. Hazama, and K. Onuki, Phys. Rev. B **69**, 180511(R)
(2004). * (7) I. Shirotani, T. Uchiumi, K. Ohno, C. Sekine, Y. Nakazawa,
K. Kanoda, S. Todo, and T. Yagi, Phys. Rev. B **56**, 7866 (1997). * (8)
E. Bauer, St. Berger, Ch. Paul, M. D. Mea, G. Hilscher, H. Michor, M.
Reissner, W. Steiner, A. Grystiv, P. Rogl, and E. W. Scheidt, Phys. Rev.
B **66**, 214421 (2002). * (9) M. Kohgi, K. Iwasa, M. Nakajima, N.
Metoki, S. Araki, N. Bernhoeft, J. M. Mignot, A. Gukasov, H. Sato, Y.
Aoki, and H. Sugawara, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **72**, 1002 (2003). * (10) P.
Fulde, L. L. Hirst, and A. Luther, Z. Phys. **230**, 155 (1970). * (11)
E. A. Goremychkin, R. Osborn, E. D. Bauer, M. B. Maple, N. A. Frederick,
W. M. Yuhasz, F. M. Woodward, and J. W. Lynn, Phys. Rev. Lett. **93**,
157003 (2004). * (12) D. T. Adroja, J.-G. Park, E. A. Goremychkin, N.
Takeda, M. Ishikawa, K. A. McEwen, R. Osborn, A. D. Hillier, and B. D.
Rainford, Physica B **359-361**, 983 (2005). * (13) D. L. Cox and A.
Zawadowski, Adv. Phys. **47**, 599 (1998). * (14) M. Yogi, H. Kotegawa,
Y. Imamura, G.-q. Zheng, Y. Kitaoka, H. Sugawara, and H. Sato, Phys.
Rev. B **67**, 180501(R) (2003). * (15) H. Kotegawa, M. Yogi, Y.
Imamura, Y. Kawasaki, G.-q. Zheng, Y. Kitaoka, S. Ohsaki, H. Sugawara,
Y. Aoki, and H. Sato, Phys. Rev. Lett. **90**, 027001 (2003). * (16) Y.
Aoki, A. Tsuchiya, T. Kanayama, S. R. Saha, H. Sugawara, H. Sato, W.
Higemoto, A. Koda, K. Ohishi, K. Nishiyama, and R. Kadono, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **91**, 067003 (2003). * (17) D. E. MacLaughlin, J. E. Sonier, R.
H. Heffner, O. O. Bernal, Ben-Li Young, M. S. Rose, G. D. Morris, E. D.
Bauer, T. D. Do, and M. B. Maple, Phys. Rev. Lett. **89**, 157001
(2002). * (18) See, for example, J. E. Sonier, J. H. Brewer, and R. F.
Kiefl, Rev. Mod. Phys. **72**, 769 (2000). * (19) See, for example, A.
Amato, Rev. Mod. Phys. **69**, 1119 (1997). * (20) E. E. M. Chia, M. B.
Salamon, H. Sugawara, and H. Sato, Phys. Rev. B **69**, 180509(R)
(2004). * (21) E. E. M. Chia, M. B. Salamon, D. Vandervelde, D. Kikuchi,
H. Sugawara, and H. Sato, cond-mat/0411395 (unpublished). * (22) B. D.
Rainford, in _Muon Science: Muons in Physics, Chemistry and Materials_,
edited by S. L. Lee, S. H. Kilcoyne, and R. Cywinski (SUSSP and IOP,
Bristol, 1998), p. 463. * (23) G. Aeppli, R. J. Cava, E. J. Ansaldo, J.
H. Brewer, S. R. Kreitzman, G. M. Luke, D. R. Noakes, and R. F. Kiefl,
Phys. Rev. B **35**, 7129 (1987). * (24) B. D. Rainford and G. J.
Daniell, Hyperfine Interact. **87**, 1129 (1994). * (25) A. D. Hillier
and R. Cywinski, Appl. Magn. Reson. **13**, 95 (1997). * (26) K. Arai,
J. Kikuchi, K. Kodama, M. Takigawa, S. Yonezawa, Y. Muraoka, and Z.
Hiroi, cond-mat/0411460 (unpublished). * (27) E. H. Brandt, Phys. Rev. B
**37**, R2349 (1998). * (28) A. D. Huxley, M.-A. Measson, K. Izawa, C.
D. Dewhurst, R. Cubitt, B. Grenier, H. Sugawara, J. Flouquet, Y.
Matsuda, and H. Sato, Phys. Rev. Lett. **93**, 187005 (2004). * [29] T.
D. Matsuda, K. Abe, F. Watanuki, H. Sugawara, Y. Aoki, H. Sato, Y.
Inada, R. Settai, and Y. Onuki, Physica B **312-313**, 832 (2002). *
[30] S. G. Barsov, A. L. Getalov, V. P. Koptev, L. A. Kuzmin, S. M.
Mikirtychyants, G. V. Shcherbakov, A. A. Vasiljev, V. K. Fedotov, V. I.
Kulakov, R. K. Nicolaev, N. S. Sidorov, Y. M. Mukovskii, A. S.
Nigmatulin, and S. E. Strunin, Hyperfine Interact. **63**, 161 (1990). *
[31] R. Feyerherm, A. Amato, A. Grayevsky, F. N. Gygax, N. Kaplan, and
A. Schenck, Z. Phys. B: Condens. Matter **99**, 3 (1995).
