# Oxygen isotope effect on the effective mass of carriers from magnetic
measurements

on La2-_x_Sr_xCuO4

Guo-meng Zhao, K. K. Singh, A. P. B. Sinha, and D. E. Morris

Morris Research, Inc., 1918 University Avenue, Berkeley, California
94704

11 March 1994; revised manuscript received 1 March 1995

Oxygen isotope effects on T_(c) and the Meissner fraction f have been
investigated in fine-grained, decoupled La2-_x_Sr_xCuO4 with x = 0.105,
0.110, and 0.115. We find that these oxygen isotope effects are related
to each other: dln T_(c)/dln M ≈ dln f/dln M (where M is the mass of
oxygen). We also show that the trapped flux due to intergrain weak-link
and intragrain flux pinning is negligible in our samples, and that the
Meissner fractions for the samples with the same ¹⁶O isotope are nearly
equal The observed large oxygen isotope effects on T_(c) and the
Meissner fraction can be explained as due to the oxygen-mass dependence
of m^(•) (effective mass of carriers). The results may suggest that the
conducting carriers in the cuprate superconductors are of polaronic
type.

The discovery and development of the high-T_(c) cuprate superconductors
have prompted a burst of experimental and theoretical investigations on
these systems. However, the microscopic pairing mechanism for high-T_(c)
superconductivity remains controversial. Opinions on the role of
electron-phonon interaction vary widely.¹ ⁻ ³ One way to assess the
importance of phonons in the pairing is the isotope effect on T_(c).
Very small oxygen isotope effect on T_(c) was observed in the optimally
doped cuprates⁴ ⁻ ⁷ while large oxygen isotope effect was found in the
underdoped cuprates.⁸ ⁻ ¹¹ The large isotope effect may point to the
phonon-mediated pairing mechanism for high-T_(c) superconductivity.
However, since T_(c) is sensitive to the hole concentration in the
underdoped range, it has been suggested¹² that the observed large oxygen
isotope effect could be due to a slight difference in the mobile-hole
concentrations of the ¹⁶O and ¹⁸O samples. Therefore it is essential to
address this issue before one can draw any conclusion about pairing
mechanism from these isotope effect experiments.

It is important to note that the ¹⁶O-containing samples of
La2-_x_Sr_xCuO4 have a local minimum in T_(c) at x ∼ 0.110, as shown by
Takagi _et al_.¹³ and Xiong _et al_.¹⁴ One possible explanation to the
local minimum in T_(c) is that the mobile-hole concentration has a local
minimum at this composition. However, several substitution
experiments^(15, 16) indicate that the mobile-hole concentration n is
nearly equal to x when x < 0.15. The Hall effect measurements¹⁵ further
show that the Hall coefficient is a monotonic function of x. These
results consistently suggest that the local minimum in T_(c) for the
¹⁶O-containing samples occurs at the mobile-hole concentration n ≈ x ≈
0.110. Since the T_(c) values of the ¹⁶O-containing samples have a
minimum at n ≈ x ≈ 0.110, any isotope-induced increase or decrease in
the hole concentration at this composition will always raise T_(c).
Therefore, the isotope-induced decrease in T_(c) must be caused by
variables other than the change in the hole concentration.

The muon-spin-relaxation experiments¹⁷ have shown a universal linear
relationship: T_(c) ∝ 1/_l_ab_(0)² ∝ n /_m_ * for underdoped _p_-type
cuprates, where _l_ab_(0) is the in-plane penetration depth at zero
temperature and m * is the effective mass of carriers along _a_-_b_
plane. This result implies that the observation of oxygen isotope effect
on T_(c) must be accompanied by the observation of oxygen isotope effect
on the penetration depth _l_ab_(0). Since the Meissner fraction f(0) for
a fine-grained sample is a function of grain size and penetration depth,
the observation of oxygen isotope effect on _l_ab_(0) will be equivalent
to the observation of oxygen isotope effect on f(0).

Here we report the detailed results of oxygen isotope effects on T_(c)
and Meissner fraction f for the fine-grained and decoupled
La2-_x_Sr_xCuO4 with x = 0.105, 0.110, and 0.115. We find that the
oxygen isotope effects on T_(c) and Meissner fraction f are related to
each other: dln T_(c)/dln M ≈ dln f/dln M (where M is the mass of
oxygen). The results can be explained as due to the oxygen-mass
dependence of m^(•).

Samples of La2-_x_Sr_xCuO4 with x = 0.100, 0.105, 0.110, 0.115, and
0.120 were prepared by conventional solid-state reaction using La2O3
(99,99

Each pellet was broken in half, and the halves were then subjected to
¹⁶O and ¹⁸O isotope diffusion, which was conducted in two parallel
quartz tubes separated by about 2 cm (see Ref. [7]). The purities of the
¹⁶O and ¹⁸O gases used for isotope exchange are as follows: ¹⁶O₂ gas
contains 99.993

The susceptibility was measured with a Quantum Design superconducting
quantum interference device magnetometer. The field-cooled,
measured-on-warming (FCW) susceptibility was measured in a nominal field
of 5 Oe. All samples were carefully aligned in the same direction (along
the axis parallel to the field) during each measurement. The samples
were held at 40 K in a field of   5 Oe for   10 min, and then cooled
directly to 5 K. The cooling rates for all measurements were similar.
The data were collected upon warming. The magnetic field was kept
unchanged throughout each series of measurements. The before-diffusion
samples had been measured at an earlier time in the nominal field of 5
Oe while the back-exchanged samples were measured at a later time in the
same nominal field. The zero-field-cooled (ZFC) susceptibility was
measured in a field of 4.8 Oe after the sample was zero-field ( 0.1 Oe)
cooled from normal state to 5 K, and the field-cooled (FC)
susceptibility was measured in the same field as that for ZFC
measurement.

In Figs. 1(a) - 1(c), we show the FCW susceptibility for the 16O and 18O
samples with x = 0.105, 0.110, and 0.115. The nominal magnetic field for
the measurement is 5 Oe. From Fig. 1, we find that the Meissner
fractions for the 18O samples are   5-8

Since the T_(c) values of the 16O-containing samples have a local
minimum at n x 0.110 (see Fig. 2), any increase or decrease in the hole
concentration upon isotope substitution will raise the T_(c) of the
sample at this composition. Therefore, a lowering in T_(c) of the 18O
sample at this composition is not possibly due to a lower or higher hole
concentration in the 18O sample. From Fig. 2, one can also see that
_dT__c_ /_dn_ < 0 at n = 0.105, and _dT__c_ /_dn_ > 0 at n = 0.115. So
there would be a positive oxygen isotope effect on T_(c) at n x 0.115,
and a negative oxygen isotope effect on T_(c) at n x 0.105, if there
were only a positive oxygen isotope effect on the hole concentration.
The observed large positive oxygen isotope effect on T_(c) at all the
three compositions implies that the oxygen isotope effect on the hole
concentration, if it exists, will be small.

The observed oxygen isotope effect on the Meissner fraction is possibly
caused by the differences in grain-size, remanent magnetization (trapped
flux) and demagnetization factor of the 16O and 18O samples. To rule out
this possibility, we show, in Figs. 3(a) and 3(b), the results of FCW
susceptibility (a) for x = 0.110 before isotope exchange; (b) for x =
0.115 after back exchange. The nominal magnetic field for the
measurements is 5 Oe. It is clear that the Meissner fractions of the 16O
and 18O samples are the same within +-1.5

Note that the apparent differences in the absolute sus

Figure 1: **The FCW susceptibility for the 16O and 18O samples of
La2−xSrxCuO4 with (a) x = 0.105; (b) x = 0.110; (c) x = 0.115. The data
shown were divided by a nominal field of 5 Oe and not corrected by
demagnetization factors. The real magnetic field for measurements is 5.9
± 0.2 Oe.**

ceptibility of the ¹⁶O samples as shown in Fig. 1(b) and Fig. 3(a), or
in Fig. 1(c) and Fig. 3(b) are due to resetting the magnetic field in
the different series of measurements which were conducted in different
periods. We usually set a magnetic field in no overshoot mode after the
field is reduced from − or + 5.0 T to zero in oscillate mode [which
leads to a remanent field of + or − (0.9 ±0.2) Oe]. Then the real
magnitude of the field will be 4.1±0.2 or 5.9±0.2 Oe if one sets a
nominal field of 5 Oe.

It was also suggested that the observed oxygen isotope effects on T_(c)
and f could be explained by a picture in which the ¹⁸O samples contain
more nonsuperconducting phase (La_(1.67)Sr_(0.33)Cu₂O₅) than the ¹⁶O
samples.[19] However, this is not consistent with our XRD results, which
do not show any evidence of a second phase (e.g.,
La_(1.67)Sr_(0.33)Cu₂O₃) in either the ¹⁶O or the ¹⁸O samples. In our
XRD patterns (the wavelength of x ray is 1.540 60 A), the weak peak at
2θ = 36.277 ^(∘) for La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄ (3

It is known that the field-cooled susceptibility (or Meissner effect)
for fine-grained samples is reduced due to the penetration-depth,
intergrain weak links, and intragrain flux pinning. If the intergrain
link is not well established, the flux cannot be trapped in the
intergrain boundary. If the samples have negligible defects, and the
magnetic field is low, the flux will not be trapped inside the grain.
The magnitude of the trapped flux can be obtained by the ZFC and FC
measurements. The difference of ZFC and FC magnetization is the remanent
magnetization due to the trapped flux.[20] In Fig. 4, we show the ZFC
and FC susceptibility for x = 0.115 sample (after back exchange). The
real magnetic field of "zero field" was checked by measuring the
diamagnetic signal of Pb, and was determined to be ∼ 0.1 Oe. From Fig.
4, one can see that the difference of the ZFC and FC signals is very
small, suggesting negligible flux trapping. Further evidence for
negligible flux trapping is the field independence of the FC
susceptibility below 7 Oe.

Since there is negligible flux trapping in our fine-grained and
decoupled samples, the Meissner fraction can

Figure 3: The FCW susceptibility for the samples of La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄
with (a) x = 0.110, before isotope exchange; (b) x = 0.115, after back
exchange. The data shown were divided by a nominal field of 5 Oe and not
corrected by demagnetization factors. The real magnetic field for
measurements is 5.9±0.2 Oe in (a), and 4.1±0.2 Oe in (b).

Figure 2: The superconducting transition temperatures T_(c) vs x for the
¹⁶O and ¹⁸O samples of La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄. Since the T_(c) values of
the ¹⁶O-containing samples have a local minimum at n ≈ x ≈ 0.110, any
increase or decrease in the hole concentration upon isotope substitution
will raise the T_(c) of the sample at this composition. Therefore, a
lowering in T_(c) of the ¹⁸O sample at this composition is not due to a
lower or higher hole concentration in the ¹⁸O sample.

be expressed as f(0) = f({r}, λ(0)), where {r} is the radius
distribution of grains and λ(0) is the effective penetration depth at
low temperatures. For Δλ(0)/λ(0) < < 1, we can make a Taylor expansion
for the Meissner fraction f(0), leading to

−Δf(0)/f(0) = B[Δλ(0)/λ(0)],
(1)

where Δλ(0) and Δf(0) mean isotope-induced changes of λ(0) and f(0), and
B = − [λ(0)/f(0)] [∂f({r}, λ(0))/∂λ(0)]. If λ(0)/r < < 1,
f(0) ≈ [1 − λ(0)/R]³ (where R is the average radius of grains), then
B ≈ 3[1 − f(0)^(1/3)]/f(0)^(1/3). The above relation can give a rough
estimation for the coefficient B [e.g., B ∼ 2 for f(0) ∼ 20%].

Equation (1) indicates that the observation of oxygen isotope effect on
the Meissner fraction is equivalent to the observation of oxygen isotope
effect on the penetration depth. Since λ ∝ (m  * /n)^(1/2), Eq. (1)
implies that the observed oxygen-mass dependence of f(0) originates from
the oxygen-mass dependence of n and/or m *. As discussed above, the
results shown in Fig. 2 imply that the oxygen isotope effect on the hole
concentration, if it exists, will be small. Then the observed large
oxygen isotope effect on the Meissner fraction is mainly caused by the
oxygen-mass dependence of m * (effective mass of carriers).

Since the hole concentration n is closely related to a ratio g = c/a
(where a and c are the lattice constants along ab plane and c-axis
direction, respectively), any isotope-induced change in the hole
concentration (e.g., a possible difference in the oxygen contents of the
¹⁶O and ¹⁸O samples) will lead to a change of g. Crawford _et al._, [9]
have precisely determined the lattice constants for the ¹⁶O and ¹⁸O
samples of La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄ from synchrotron x-ray-diffraction
measurements, and found that the values of g for the ¹⁶O and ¹⁸O samples
are the same within ±10⁻⁶ [for orthorhombic symmetry, g is defined as
g = c/(ab/2)^(1/2)]. Using a relation Δn ∼ 10Δg/g (Refs. 21−24), one can
estimate that the hole concentrations of the ¹⁶O and ¹⁸O samples are the
same within ±10⁻⁵. Therefore, the observed large oxygen isotope effect
on the penetration depth (or Meissner fraction) is due to the
oxygen-mass dependence of m * or the density of states N(E).

There are several theoretical explanations to the oxygen-mass dependence
of the N(E). Pickett, Cohen, and Krakauer [25] have shown that the
strong anharmonicity of phonon modes will make N(E) depend on the ion
mass due to structure fluctuation. Alternatively, the ion-mass
dependence of N(E) could be due to the breakdown of Migdal adiabatic
approximation. Engelesberg and Schrieffer [26] have shown that the
Migdal approximation does not hold if there is a reasonably strong
interaction between electrons and long wavelength optical phonons. The
breakdown of the Migdal approximation will lead to the formation of
polarons. [3] The interaction of the electrons with the long wavelength
optical phonons (or the local phonons as in the Holstein model) narrows
the electronic bandwidth and enhances the density of states by a factor
A(ω)exp(B/ω) which is ion-mass dependent, where A(ω) has a weak
dependence on ω and B is a constant. [3]

In conclusion, we have observed oxygen isotope effects on T_(c) and the
Meissner fraction f in the fine-grained, decoupled La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄
with x = 0.105, 0.110, and 0.115. The observed large oxygen isotope
effects on T_(c) and the Meissner fraction can be explained as due to
the oxygen-mass dependence of m * (effective mass of carriers). The
present results may suggest that the conducting carriers in the cuprate
superconductors are of polaronic type.

We would like to thank M. L. Cohen and V. H. Crespi for stimulating
discussion.

## References

* [1] V. J. Emery, Phys. Rev. Lett. **58**, 2794 (1987). * [2] P. W.
Anderson, Science **235**, 1196 (1987). * [3] A. S. Alexandrov and N. F.
Mott, Int. J. Mod. Phys. B **8**, 2075 (1994). * [4] B. Batlogg _et
al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **58**, 2333 (1987). * [5] L. C. Bourne _et al._,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **58**, 2337 (1987). * [6] D. E. Morris _et al._, Phys.
Rev. B **37**, 5936 (1988). * [7] J. H. Nickel, D. E. Morris, and J. W.
Ager III, Phys. Rev. Lett. **70**, 81 (1993). * [8] M. K. Crawford _et
al._, Phys. Rev. B **41**, 282 (1990). * [9] M. K. Crawford _et al._,
Science **250**, 1390 (1990). * [10] H. J. Bornemann and D. E. Morris,
Phys. Rev. B **44**, 5322 (1991). * [11] J. P. Franck _et al._, Phys.
Rev. B **44**, 5318 (1991). * [12] T. Schneider and H. Keller, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **69**, 3374 (1992). * [13] H. Takagi _et al._, Phys. Rev. B
**40**, 2254 (1989). * [14] Q. Xiong _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **46**, 581
(1992). * [15] T. Nishikawa, H. Harashina, and M. Sato, Physica C
**211**, 127 (1993). * [16] Y. Maeno _et al._, Physica C **185-189**,
909 (1991).

Figure 4: The temperature dependence of ZFC and FC susceptibility for
the x = 0.115 sample. The difference of the ZFC and FC signals is small,
suggesting negligible flux trapping.

* [17] Y. J. Uemura _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **62**, 2317 (1989). *
[18] P. Franck _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **71**, 283 (1993). * [19]
Maria Ronay _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **45**, 355 (1992). * [20] J. R. Clem
and Z. D. Hao, Phys. Rev. B **48**, 13 774 (1993). * [21] G. M. Zhao _et
al._, Phys. Rev. B **50**, 4112 (1994). * [22] P. Ganguly _et al._,
Phys. Rev. B **47**, 991 (1993). * [23] K. Sreedhar and P. Ganguly,
Phys. Rev. B **41**, 371 (1990). * [24] J. C. Grenier _et al._, Physica
C **202**, 209 (1992). * [25] W. E. Pickett, R. E. Cohen, and H.
Krakauer, Phys. Rev. Lett. **67**, 228 (1991). * [26] S. Engelesberge
and J. R. Schrieffer, Phys. Rev. **131**, 993 (1963).
