# Electronic structure and superconducting gap of silicon clathrate
Ba₈Si₄₆ studied

with ultrahigh-resolution photoemission spectroscopy

T. Yokoya

Institute for Solid State Physics, University of Tokyo, Kashiwa, Chiba
277-8581, Japan

A. Fukushima

Institute for Solid State Physics, University of Tokyo, Kashiwa, Chiba
277-8581, Japan

T. Kiss

Institute for Solid State Physics, University of Tokyo, Kashiwa, Chiba
277-8581, Japan

K. Kobayashi

The Institute of Physical and Chemical Research (RIKEN), Sayo-gun, Hyogo
679-5143, Japan

S. Shin

Institute for Solid State Physics, University of Tokyo, Kashiwa, Chiba
277-8581, Japan The Institute of Physical and Chemical Research (RIKEN),
Sayo-gun, Hyogo 679-5143, Japan

K. Moriguchi

Electronics Engineering Laboratories, Sumitomo Metal Industries, Ltd.,
1-8 Fusocho, Amagasaki, Hyogo 660-0891, Japan

A. Shintani

Electronics Engineering Laboratories, Sumitomo Metal Industries, Ltd.,
1-8 Fusocho, Amagasaki, Hyogo 660-0891, Japan

H. Fukuoka

Department of Applied Chemistry, Graduate School of Engineering,
Hiroshima University, Higashi-Hiroshima 739-8527, Japan

S. Yamanaka

CREST, Japan Science and Technology Corporation (JST), Kawaguchi
332-0012, Japan

Received 20 April 2001; published 1 October 2001

###### Abstract

We study the electronic structure and superconducting transition of
silicon clathrate Ba₈Si₄₆ (T_(c)= 8 K) using photoemission spectroscopy.
We observe a narrow band at the Fermi level (E_(F)), whose width (∼0.3
eV) is substantially smaller than that of band structure calculations
(∼1.5 eV). Ultrahigh-resolution measurements show a superconducting gap
at 5.4 K [2A(0)/k_(B)T_(c)=3.51]. Fine structures associated with
phonons are observed within 70 meV of E_(F). These results characterize
Ba₈Si₄₆ as a weak-coupling superconductor most probably driven by
phonon.

pacs: 74.25.Jb, 74.70.Wz, 79.60.−i + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL
REVIEW B, VOLUME 64, 172504

Silicon clathrate Na₈Si₄₆ has been known as a nonsuperconducting metal
down to 2 K for more than thirty years.[1] The crystal structure
consists of Si₂₀ and Si₃₄ cages sharing their pentagonal faces with each
other, with Na atoms occupying these cages (see Fig. 1). Though the
silicon clathrate is reminiscent of the electron-doped C₆₀, the
intercage bonding makes the clathrate different from the doped C₆₀,
where individual C₆₀ molecules essentially influence its physical
properties: Clathrates are covalent crystals, while fullerides are
molecular crystals. Motivated by the discovery of the superconductivity
in the doped C₆₀ compounds with the highest transition temperature
(T_(c)) exceeding 30 K (Ref. [2]) and expectation of higher T_(c) even
in the silicon clathrates because of expected higher Debye temperatures
originating in the rigid sp³ Si-Si covalent bonding, Yamanaka _et al._
succeeded in synthesizing superconducting Na₂Ba₆Si₄₆ with T_(c) of 4 K
(Ref. [3]). A remarkable point of this success is that this is a
superconductor with sp³ Si-Si covalent bonding, implying a possibility
of occurring superconductivity in the other cubic-silicon-like sp³
materials. This, along with their physically and industrially
interesting properties,[4, 5, 6] has brought about renewed attention,
and has stimulated experimental and theoretical studies.

Comparative band structure calculations[7] of Si₄₆ and Na₂Ba₈Si₄₆ show
that the density of states (DOS) of the conduction band in Na₂Ba₈Si₄₆ is
strongly modified compared to that of pristine Si₄₆ due to strong
hybridization between Si₄₆ and Ba states. This modification produces a
sharp peak at the Fermi level (E_(F)), which is thought to play a
crucial role for the superconductivity because of the very high DOS at
E_(F). Nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) studies have experimentally
confirmed that the existence of the strong hybridization[8, 9, 10]
together with partial ionization of Na and Ba in Na_(x)Ba₃Si₄₆ (Ref.
[8]), but also discussed somewhat lower DOS at E_(F) compared to the
value from the calculations.[7] Raman spectroscopy has been
performed[11, 12] and compared with calculations[13, 14, 15] in order to
study the phonon modes. Recently, neutron scattering studies reported
that the phonon density of states of Si₄₆ is found to extend up to ∼70
meV (Ref. [16]). However, so far, to our best knowledge, no
photoemission (PE) study reporting the electronic structure of the
valence band and superconducting gap of superconducting silicon
clathrates is known, except for an x-ray photoemission[17] which
measured the valence band of nonsuperconducting Si₃₄ type clathrate
samples. The reason is because bulk superconducting samples for PE
measurements are not available till now. Fortunately, more recently,
high-pressure synthesis enables us to make bulk Ba₈Si₄₆ having T_(c) of
8 K (Ref. [18]), giving us an opportunity to perform PE spectroscopy on
this compound.

In this Brief Report, we report experimental electronic structures of
Ba₈Si₄₆. The PE spectra of the valence band region show several features
up to 14 eV binding energy. We also find a sharp peak at E_(F), which is
expected to be a crucial factor for the superconductivity from band
structure

Figure 1: Schematic structure model of Ba₈Si₄₆. Ba atoms occupy all of
the silicon cages.

calculations [7, 19]. But the observed bandwidth (∼0.3 eV) of the peak
at E_(F) is narrower than the calculated bandwidth (∼1.5 eV), suggestive
of a deviation from one electron approximation. Furthermore, we observe
a clear opening of a superconducting gap below T_(c) with the gap size
of 1.3 meV, which corresponds to a reduced gap size of 2Δ(0)/k_(B)T_(c)
= 3.51. We also observe fine structures up to ∼70 meV in superconducting
spectrum, whose energy is nearly equivalent to the highest phonon energy
for Na₈Si₄₆ clathrate [16]. These results for the superconducting state
classify Ba₈Si₄₀ into a weak-coupling superconductor most probably
mediated by phonon. These experimental results provide direct
information on the electronic structure and superconducting transition
of the silicon clathrate superconductor.

Ba₈Si₄₆ samples were prepared using a high-pressure synthesis as
described in the literature [18]. Ba₈Si₄₆ made by the same procedure has
shown superconductivity below 8 K for both resistivity and
susceptibility measurements [18].

PE measurements were performed on a spectrometer built using a
GAMMADATA-SCIENTA SES2002 electron analyzer and a high-flux discharging
lamp with a toroidal grating monochromator. The total energy resolutions
(analyzer and light) for total valence band measurements using the He 1α
(21.218 eV) and He 1α (40.814 eV) resonance lines were set to 70 and 100
meV, respectively, while that for E_(F) region was set to 8 meV.
Ultrahigh-resolution measurement very close to E_(F) for a
superconducting gap was done with 2.4 meV resolution. The sample
temperatures were measured using a silicon-diode sensor mounted just
close to it. The base pressure of the spectrometer was better than 5 ×
10⁻¹¹ Torr. Samples were fractured _in situ_ to obtain clean surfaces
and all the measurements were done within 3 h after the fractures. We
did not see any spectral changes within the time interval, indicating
the observed spectra are reflecting intrinsic electronic structures.
Temperature dependent spectral changes were confirmed by cycling
temperature across T_(c). E_(F) of samples was referenced to that of a
gold film evaporated onto the sample substrate and its accuracy is
estimated to be better than ±0.05 meV.

Figure 2 shows valence band PE spectra of superconducting Ba₈Si₄₆
obtained at 5.4 K using He 1α and He 1α. The valence band spectrum
measured with He 1α shows a peak at E_(F) and several features as shown
by vertical lines. Corresponding structures are seen in He 1α spectrum,
though the accessible energy region of He 1α spectrum is smaller than
that of He 1α due to the smaller photon energy. In Fig. 2, we also show
the total DOS obtained from the first principals calculations using
local density approximation (LDA) (Ref. [19]), incorporating a matrix
element effect as well as resolution and lifetime broadening as a
Gaussian with full width at half maximum (FWHM) of 0.5 eV. As shown with
thin dotted lines, the experimentally observed features beyond 2 eV can
be related to those in the calculated DOS. However, well-separated three
prominent structures which can be assigned to Si 3s, Si 3s-p, and Si 3p
like states of the Si₄₆ framework in the calculations do not clearly
appear in the experimental spectrum. This indicates that the Ba atom
influences the Si₄₆ cage more than the expectation from band
calculations, supporting the NMR study which confirmed the existence of
strong hybridization in Na₈Ba₃Si₄₆[8].

Furthermore, we find there is a substantial discrepancy between the
present results and calculations especially for the electronic states
within 2 eV below E_(F). Besides a peak at E_(F), we observe a broad
hump at 1.5 eV in the observed spectrum, no representative structure of
which we see in the calculation. The observed result is reminiscent of
that reported for metal-insulator transition systems like V₂O₃[20]. As
for the peak at E_(F), the intensity seems smaller compared to the
intensity of the bands at 2−6 eV, while those are similar in the
calculation. Further, the width of the peak at E_(F) is smaller than
that of the calculated one, as shown in the inset of Fig. 2. We see that
the peak shows a width of ∼0.3 eV with fine structures near E_(F) (we
will discuss this later), while the calculated peak has a width of ∼1.5
eV. These results indicate that the LDA calculation is not enough for
describing the electronic structure of Si clathrate, implying importance
of electron correlations which may be expected from the flat bands due
to its large unit cell, as in the C₆₀ crystals [2]. However, in order to
address the electron correlation in the silicon clathrates, further
studies including resistivity, specific heat, and de Haas-van Alphen
measurements will be necessary.

In He 1α spectrum, we can observe Ba 5p_(1/2) and 5p_(3/2) shallow core
levels at 17.1 and 15.1 eV binding energies, respectively. The energy
position of the Ba 5p_(3/2) is 15.1 eV

Figure 2: Valence band PE spectra of Ba₈Si₄₆ measured He 1α and He 1α
resonance lines at 5.4 K (thick lines), together with the total DOS
calculated by first principle LDA calculations (Ref. [19]) including
matrix element effects and broadened with a Gaussian with FWHM of 0.5 eV
(thin line). The inset shows high-resolution (8 meV) spectra near E_(F)
of Ba₈Si₄₆.

and found to have a shift of 0.6 eV compared to that of a Ba metal (14.6
eV) (Ref. [21]). This value is similar to the shift of 5_p_(3/2)_
reported for BaS (0.53 eV) but slightly smaller than that of BaO (0.86
eV) (Ref. [22]), in which Ba atoms are believed to take a divalent
state. This observation agrees with the NMR measurements [8] reporting
that the Ba atoms are partially ionized, indicating a covalent-like
bonding of Ba atoms and Si₄₆ cages.

To study the superconducting electronic structure of Ba₈Si₄₆, we further
performed ultrahigh-resolution measurements. In Fig. 3, we show the
results measured at 5.4 K (superconducting state, open circles) and 10.0
K (normal state, open squares) normalized with area under the curve from
12 to −8 meV. The normal state spectrum has a leading edge whose
midpoint is nearly located at E_(F). In contrast, the
superconducting-state spectrum exhibits a spectacular redistribution of
the spectral intensity from at and above E_(F) to higher binding energy,
forming a new peak around 3 meV. This is a direct measurement of the
superconducting gap of silicon clathrates. To obtain the magnitude of
the superconducting gap, we have done numerical simulations using the
Dynes function, [23] assuming a constant normal-state DOS and using the
energy resolution of 2.4 meV. We superimpose a result using Δ = 1.3 meV
and Γ = 0.3 meV (curve), which well reproduces the superconducting
spectrum as shown in Fig. 3. From the known temperature dependence of
the superconducting gap for both weak- and strong-coupling
superconductors, [24] we estimate the gap value at 0 K and obtain a
reduced gap, 2Δ(0)/k_(B)T_(c) = 3.51. This classifies Ba₈Si₄₆ into a
weak-coupling superconductor. We note that this value is similar to
those obtained for K₃C₆₀ and Rb₃C₆₀ (3.53) using photoemission
spectroscopy. [25]

Lastly, we turn to the structures near E_(F) but in slightly wider
regions as shown in Fig. 4. First we emphasize that the spectrum is for
the superconducting state, though it does not show the superconducting
condensation peak due to a lower resolution (8 meV) and a larger step
size (2 meV) compared to the energy scale of the superconducting gap. As
one can see, the intensity has a maximum at 30 meV and broad shoulder
around 70 meV. Consequently, we observe a weak dip around 50 meV and
intensity suppression close to E_(F). We find that the energy positions
of the dip and the maximum relate very well to the peak and dip
positions in the phonon spectrum of Na₈Si₄₆ (Ref. [16]), respectively,
indicating that the electrons are coupled with phonons in the
superconducting state. We observe similar spectral shape even for normal
state, consistent to the Raman scattering measurement reporting
importance of electron-phonon coupling for the normal state. [11] These
results suggest the superconductivity of silicon clathrate is most
probably driven by phonon.

In conclusion, we have studied the electronic structure and
superconducting transition of the silicon clathrate superconductor,
Ba₈Si₄₆, using PE spectroscopy. We observed a peak at E_(F) for
superconducting Ba₈Si₄₆, suggesting that the peak at E_(F) is a
necessary feature to get superconductivity for this different type of
superconductor. From the ultrahigh-resolution PE spectroscopy, we
observe a reduced gap of 3.51 as well as phonon-induced features. These
indicate the superconductivity of the silicon clathrate classified as a
weak-coupling one most probably mediated by phonon. These experimental
results provide important information on the electronic structure and
the mechanism for this superconductor with the unique structure.

We would like to thank Dr. A. Chainani for valuable and stimulating
discussion. This work was supported by grants from the Ministry of
Education, Culture and Science of Japan. T.K. thanks JSPS for financial
support.

Figure 4: High-resolution PE spectrum of Ba₈Si₄₆ using an energy
resolution of 8 meV (open circles) together with a smoothing curve
demonstrating existence of fine structures. Arrows are representing the
positions of a weak dip (∼50 meV) and a maximum (∼30 meV) in the
intensity.

Figure 3: Ultrahigh-resolution PE spectra of Ba₈Si₄₆ measured at 5.4 K
(superconducting state, open circles) and 10.0 K (normal state, open
squares) using an energy resolution of 2.4 meV. A curve superimposed on
the superconducting spectrum is the result of a numerical calculation
using the Dynes function with Δ=1.3 meV and Γ=0.3 meV.

## References

* [1] J. S. Kasper, P. Hagenmuller, M. Pouchard, and C. Cros, Science
**150**, 1713 (1965); C. Cros, M. Pouchard, and P. Hagenmuller, J. Solid
State Chem. **2**, 570 (1970). * [2] For review, see O. Gunnarsson, Rev.
Mod. Phys. **69**, 575 (1994). * [3] H. Kawaji, H. Horie, S. Yamanaka,
and M. Ishikawa, Phys. Rev. Lett. **74**, 1427 (1995); S. Yamanaka, H.
Horie, H. Nakano, and M. Ishikawa, Fullerene Sci. Technol. **3**, 21
(1995). * [4] J. L. Cohn, G. S. Nolas, V. Fessatidis, T. H. Metcalf, and
G. A. Slack, Phys. Rev. Lett. **82**, 779 (1999); J. S. Tse, K. Uehara,
R. Rousseau, A. Ker, C. I. Ratcliffe, M. A. White, and G. MacKay,
_ibid._**85**, 114 (2000). * [5] A. San-Miguel, P. Keghelian, X. Blase,
P. Melinon, A. Perez, J. P. Itie, A. Polian, E. Reny, C. Cros, and M.
Pouchard, Phys. Rev. Lett. **83**, 5290 (1999). * [6] T. Kawaguchi, K.
Tanigaki, and M. Yasukawa, Phys. Rev. Lett. **85**, 3189 (2000). * [7]
S. Saito and A. Oshiyama, Phys. Rev. B **51**, 2628 (1995). * [8] F.
Shimizu, Y. Maniwa, K. Kume, H. Kawaji, S. Yamanaka, and M. Ishikawa,
Phys. Rev. B **54**, 13 242 (1996). * [9] J. Gryko, P. F. McMillan, R.
F. Marzke, A. P. Dodokin, A. A. Demkov, and O. F. Sankey, Phys. Rev. B
**57**, 4172 (1998). * [10] G. K. Ramachandran, P. F. McMillan, J.
Diefenbacher, J. Gryko, J. Dong, and O. F. Sankey, Phys. Rev. B **60**,
12 294 (1999). * [11] S. L. Fang, L. Grigorian, P. C. Eklund, G.
Dresselhaus, M. S. Dresselhaus, H. Kawaji, and S. Yamanaka, Phys. Rev. B
**57**, 7686 (1998). * [12] Y. Guyot, B. Champagnon, E. Reny, C. Cros,
M. Pouchard, P. Melinon, A. Perez, and I. Gregora, Phys. Rev. B **57**,
R9475 (1998). * [13] R. Alben, D. Weaire, J. E. Smith, Jr., and M. H.
Brodsky, Phys. Rev. B **11**, 2271 (1975). * [14] D. Kahn and J. P. Lu,
Phys. Rev. B **56**, 13 898 (1997). * [15] M. Menon, E. Richter, and K.
R. Subbaswamy, Phys. Rev. B **56**, 12 290 (1997). * [16] P. Melinon, P.
Keghelian, A. Perez, B. Champagnon, Y. Guyot, L. Saviot, E. Reny, C.
Cros, M. Pouchard, and A. J. Dianoux, Phys. Rev. B **59**, 10 999
(1999). * [17] P. Melinon, P. Keghelian, X. Blase, J. Le Brusc, A.
Perez, E. Reny, C. Cros, and M. Pouchard, Phys. Rev. B **58**, 12 590
(1998). * [18] S. Yamanaka, E. Enishi, H. Fukuoka, and M. Yasukawa,
Inorg. Chem. **39**, 56 (2000). * [19] K. Moriguchi, M. Yonemura, A.
Shintani, and S. Yamanaka, Phys. Rev. B **61**, 9859 (2000). * [20] For
review, see M. Imada, A. Fujimori, and Y. Tokura, Rev. Mod. Phys.
**70**, 1039 (1998). * [21] S. Hufner, _Photoelectron Spectroscopy_,
Springer Series in Solid State Sciences Vol. 82 (Springer-Verlag,
Berlin, Heidelberg, 1995). * [22] J. F. Moulder, W. F. Stickle, P. E.
Sobol, and K. D. Bomben, in _Handbook of X-ray Photoelectron
Spectroscopy_, edited by J. Chastain and R. C. King, Jr. (Physical
Electronics, Inc., Eden Prairie, MN, 1995). * [23] R. C. Dynes, V.
Narayanamurti, and J. P. Garno, Phys. Rev. Lett. **41**, 1509 (1965). *
[24] D. J. Scalapino, in _Superconductivity_, edited by R. D. Parks
(Delker, New York, 1969), Vol. 1, Sec. IV. * [25] R. Hesper, L. H.
Tjeng, A. Heeres, and G. A. Sawatzky, Phys. Rev. Lett. **85**, 1970
(2000).
