# Thermoelectric studies of Ir1-_x_Rh_x_Te2 (0 <= x <= 0.3)

Yu Liu (Xu Zhi ),1 Hechang Lei (Xie Lei ),1 Kefeng Wang (Xie Wei ),1
Milinda Abeykoon,2 J. B. Warren,3 Emil Bozin,1 and C. Petrovic1

¹Condensed Matter Physics and Materials Science Department, Brookhaven
National Laboratory, Upton, New York 11973, USA

²Photon Science Division, National Synchrotron Light Source II,
Brookhaven National Laboratory, Upton, New York 11973, USA

³Instrumentation Division, Brookhaven National Laboratory, Upton, New
York 11973, USA

Footnote 1: Present address: Center for Nanophysics and Advanced
Materials, Department of Physics, University of Maryland, College Park,
Maryland 20742, USA.

###### Abstract

We report thermoelectric properties of Ir1-_x_Rh_x_Te2 (0 <= x <= 0.3)
alloy series where superconductivity at low temperatures emerges as the
high-temperature structural transition (_T_s) is suppressed. The
isovalent ionic substitution of Rh into Ir has different effects on
physical properties when compared to the anionic substitution of Se into
Te, in which the structural transition is more stable with Se
substitution. Rh substitution results in a slight reduction of lattice
parameters and in an increase of number of carriers per unit cell.
Weak-coupled BCS superconductivity in Ir0.8Rh0.2Te2 that emerges at low
temperature (T_(c)^(zero) = 2.45 K) is most likely driven by
electron-phonon coupling rather than dimer fluctuations mediated
pairing.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.98.094519

## I Introduction

The complex and unusual structural and physical properties of layered
transition metal dichalcogenides (TMDCs) have been investigated for
several decades, in part due to the competing orders such as charge
density wave (CDW) order and superconductivity (SC) [1, 2, 3, 4, 5]. The
interplay of competing orders is the fundamental question in these
systems. The CDW state can be tuned into SC via intercalation,
substitution, pressure, or electric-field effect [5, 6, 7]. Usually,
there is a domelike phase diagram, i.e., the CDW transition temperature
_T_CDW decreases when the superconducting critical temperature _T_c
increases. This indicates that CDW and SC compete, however details of
this competition are material dependent and not well understood [5, 6,
7, 8, 9, 10].

The discovery of superconductivity in Pt, Pd, and/or Cu
substituted/intercalated CdI2-type IrTe2 with its _T_c up to  3 K has
triggered a resurgence of interest in this field [11, 12, 13]. IrTe2 is
a TMDC that undergoes a structural transition at  270 K from trigonal
P3_m_1 symmetry to triclinic P1 [14, 15, 16]. The transition is
accompanied by partial Ir-Ir dimerization associated with substantial
structural distortions [15, 16]. Transmission electron microscope,
photoemission, electron diffraction, and tight-binding electronic
structure calculations all revealed a superstructure with **q** = (1/5,
0, -1/5) modulation vector associated with the low temperature phase and
initially ascribed to an orbitally driven Peierls instability [12, 17].
However, results from nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR), angle-resolved
photoemission spectroscopy (ARPES), optical conductivity, and scanning
tunneling microscopy/spectroscopy measurements brought to doubt the
conventional CDW instability scenario and instead suggested that the
transition is due to the reduction of the kinetic energy of Te p bands
[18, 19, 20, 21]. In addition, theoretical calculations suggest that the
structural transition is mainly caused by the evolution of Te p bands
rather than the instability of Ir d bands which results in a reduction
of the kinetic energy of the electronic system [13, 18]. On the other
hand, with Pt, Pd, Cu substitution/intercalation, the structural
transition is quickly suppressed and superconductivity appears at low
temperature, indicating the competition between the two order
parameters.

Isovalent substitution is an effective way to further inform the
discussion about the origin of transition and induced superconductivity.
It is similar to pressure because it changes the structural parameters,
ionic size, and electronegativity of atoms in the unit cell without
introducing extra carriers, thus affecting electronic structure and
vibrational properties. Previous studies have shown that the structural
transition at high temperature is enhanced while the superconducting
transition is suppressed by either hydrostatic or chemical pressure [22,
23, 24]. The latter results are associated with stabilization of
polymeric Te-Te bonds by replacing Te with the more electronegative Se.
This is different from other TMDCs where pressure suppresses the CDW
state and enhances the SC [6, 7]. Isovalent Rh substitution in IrTe2
also induces SC [25], however little is known about the nature of the
superconducting state.

In this paper, we report the thermoelectric properties of
Ir1-_x_Rh_x_Te2 (0 <= x <= 0.3). Our results give a slight reduction of
lattice parameters and an increase of number of carriers per unit cell.
With suppression of the high-temperature structural transition,
superconducting state that emerges at low temperature in Ir0.8Rh0.2Te2
is weak-coupled BCS, suggesting conventional electron-phonon mechanism.
This is consistent with recently reported absence of nanoscale dimer
fluctuations in Rh,Pt-substituted IrTe₂ and argues against the dimer
fluctuations mediated exotic superconductivity with singlet-triplet
pairing [26,27].

## II Experiment

Polycrystalline samples of Ir_(1 − x)Rh_(x)Te₂ (0 ≤ x ≤ 0.3) were
synthesized using solid-state reaction method as described previously
[12]. The structure was characterized by powder x-ray diffraction (XRD)
in transmission mode at the X7B beamline of the National Synchrotron
Light Source (NSLS) at Brookhaven National Laboratory. Data were
collected using a 0.5 mm² monochromatic beam of ∼38 keV (λ ∼ 0.3916 A)
at 300 K. A Perkin Elmer 2D detector was placed orthogonal to the beam
path 376.4 mm away from the sample. The sample was loaded in a polyamide
capillary 1 mm in diameter and mounted on a goniometer head. The data
were collected up to Q = 47 sinθ/λ = 12 A⁻¹. The average stoichiometry
was determined by energy-dispersive x-ray spectroscopy (EDX) in a JEOL
JSM-6500 scanning electron microscope (SEM). The specific heat was
measured on warming procedure between 1.95 and 300 K by the heat pulse
relaxation method using a QD physical property measurement system (PPMS)
with sample mass of 20 ∼ 30 mg. The electrical resistivity (ρ), Seebeck
coefficient (S), and thermal conductivity (κ) were measured on a QD PPMS
using the thermal transport option (TTO) with standard four-probe
technique. Continuous measuring mode was used. The maximum heat powder
and period were set as 50 mW and 1430 s along with the maximum
temperature rise of 3

## III Results and Discussions

The EDX measurement confirmed Ir_(1 − x)Rh_(x)Te₂ stoichiometry and
nominal Ir/Rh ratio within up to 10

Ir_(1 − x)Rh_(x)Te₂ crystalizes in a layered structure [inset in Fig.
1(b)]. There is a large number of compounds crystalizing in this
structure, especially TMDCs such as MX₂ (M = Ti, Ta, or Nb, X = S, Se,
or Te). In this structure, the edge-sharing Ir/Rh-Te octahedra form
Ir/Rh-Te layers in the _ab_ plane, resulting in the network of
equilateral triangles populated by Ir ions. The sandwich-like
Te-Ir/Rh-Te layers stack along the c axis with Te-Te bonds instead of
weak van der Waals gap which has been often observed in TMDCs
[12,33,34]. Although the interlayer interaction might be stronger than
in typical TMDCs, there are still some ions that can be intercalated
between Te-Ir/Rh-Te layers, such as Pd and Cu [12,13]. The intercalation
usually results in the increase of the c axial lattice parameter
[11,12]. On the other hand, for the Pt/Pd substitution, the c axial
lattice parameter decreases with doping. The a and c axial lattice
parameters of Ir_(1 − x)Rh_(x)Te₂ (0 ≤ x ≤ 0.3) decrease only weakly
with Rh substitution (Fig. 1(b)], which might be partially due to the
similar ionic radii of Ir and Rh.

Temperature-dependent resistivity of pure IrTe₂ (x = 0) shows metallic
behavior with a significant thermal hysteresis around ∼250 K, as
depicted in Fig. 2, which has been ascribed to a structural transition
from the trigonal P3_m_1 space group to triclinic symmetry P1
[14,15,16]. However, the origin of this structural transition is still
disputed. Electron diffraction

Figure 1: (a) The Rietveld refinement of the background subtracted IrTe₂
synchrotron powder x-ray diffraction up to Q ∼ 12 Å⁻¹. Plots show the
observed (dots) and calculated (red solid line) powder patterns with a
difference curve. The vertical tick marks represent Bragg reflections in
the P3_m_1 space group. Inset shows the evolution of the normalized
intensity of (100) Bragg reflection with increasing x in
Ir_(1 − x)Rh_(x)Te₂. (b) Unit cell parameters as a function of Rh
substitution up to x = 0.3. Inset shows crystal structure of
Ir_(1 − x)Rh_(x)Te₂ with Ir/Rh sites marked in blue and Te sites marked
in orange.

suggests that the structural transition is driven by charge-orbital
density wave with a wave vector of q = {1/5, 0,  − 1/5}[12]. On the
other hand, the NMR experiment does not provide the evidence for CDW and
the optical spectroscopic as well as ARPES measurements do not observe
the gap that would correspond to the CDW state near the Fermi level [18,
19, 20]. Additionally, the theoretical calculation suggests that the
structural transition is mainly caused by the evolution of Te p bands
rather than the instability of Ir d bands, which results in a reduction
of the kinetic energy of the electronic system [13, 18]. With Rh
substitution, the hysteresis becomes broad and shifts to lower
temperature. This anomaly disappears and the superconductivity (above 2
K) emerges in Ir_(0.8)Rh_(0.2)Te₂ with the transition temperatures
$T_{c}^{\rm onset}=2.60$ K and $T_{c}^{\rm zero}=2.45$ K (inset in Fig.
2), comparable to those with other dopants or intercalating agents [11,
12, 13].

Figure 3 shows the temperature dependence of Seebeck coefficient S(T)
for Ir_(1 − x)Rh_(x)Te₂ (0 ≤ x ≤ 0.3). The sign of S(T) for all samples
in the whole temperature range is positive, indicating the hole-type
carriers. The S(T) of pure IrTe₂ (x = 0) shows a reduction at (220-260)
K, which reflects the reconstruction of the Fermi surface across the
structural transition T_(s); i.e., the dimer formation below the T_(s)
is likely related to partial localization of some hole-type carriers at
T_(s)[15, 26]. With Rh substitution, the hysteresis becomes broad and
shifts to lower temperature for x = 0.1 and disappears for x = 0.2 and
0.3. Rh doping suppresses not only structure transition but also the
corresponding Fermi surface reconstruction, offering evidence that the
structural and electronic transitions are closely coupled. The
high-temperature transition is not present for the x = 0.2 sample, which
is a much larger substitution content when compared to Pt, Pd, or Cu
substitution/intercalation where only several percent (<5

Thermopower gradually increases with decreasing temperature in all
investigated samples. Below about (50-60) K the diffusive Seebeck
response dominates. As we know, in a metal with dominant single-band
transport, the Seebeck coefficient could be described by the Mott
relationship,
$S=\frac{\pi^{2}k_{B}T}{3\kappa}\frac{N(\varepsilon_{F})}{n}$, where
N(ε_(F)) is the density of states (DOS), ε_(F) is the Fermi energy, n is
the carrier density, k_(B) is the Boltzmann constant, and ε is the
absolute value of electronic charge [35]. The room temperature value of
$S_{300\,\rm K}$ increases with increasing x (inset in Fig. 3), implying
the decrease in hole-type carriers with Rh substitution in
Ir_(1 − x)Rh_(x)Te₂ and the absence of their reduction due to transition
in x = 0.2 and 0.3 samples. Interestingly, the S/T value determined by
linear fitting below 35 K exhibit a nonmonotonic trend with x, with
x = 0.1 composition close to dimer/SC boundary being affected by the
suppressed structural/electronic transition close to the observed
Seebeck peak. The S/T value is associated with the strength of electron
correlations, calling for more theoretical study in-depth along with
ARPES measurement. For the broad S(T) peak around (50-60) K, generally,
the phonon drag contribution to S(T) gives ∼T³ dependence for T ≪ Θ_(D),
∼1/T for T ≫ Θ_(D), and a peak feature for T ∼ Θ_(D)/5. The Debye
temperature Θ_(D) of pure IrTe₂ (x = 0) is ∼215(1) K, decreasing to
∼198(1) K for x = 0.3 (as discussed below). Therefore, the peak position
of S(T) from phonon drag should be at ∼43.0(2) K for x = 0, decreasing
to 38.8(2) for x = 0.3, which is lower than the experimentally observed
values. This further suggests the dominance of electronic diffusion over
the phonon drag effect in thermoelectricity of Ir_(1 − x)Rh_(x)Te₂
(0 ≤ x ≤ 0.3).

Temperature-dependent total thermal conductivity κ for
Ir_(1 − x)Rh_(x)Te₂ (0 ≤ x ≤ 0.3). [Fig. 4(a)] shows that the κ(T) drop
that corresponds to the T_(s) is also clearly observed. Generally,
κ = κ_(c) + κ_(L) consists of the electronic part κ_(c) and the phonon
term κ_(L). The κ_(L) can be obtained by subtracting the κ_(c) part
calculated from the Wiedemann-Franz law κ_(c)/T = L₀/ρ, where
L₀ = 2.45 × 10⁻⁸ W Ω K⁻² and ρ is the measured resistivity. The
estimated κ_(c) and κ_(L) are depicted in Figs. 4(b) and 4(c). It shows
that κ_(c) is larger and comparable to κ_(L) and confirms the
substantial effect of crystal structure changes on heat-carrying
phonons. Phonon-related thermal

Figure 3: Temperature dependence of Seebeck coefficient for
Ir_(1 − x)Rh_(x)Te₂ (0 ≤ x ≤ 0.3). Inset shows the evolution of
S_(300 κ) (balls) and S/T (circles) as a function of Rh content x.

Figure 2: Temperature dependence of electrical resistivity for
Ir_(1 − x)Rh_(x)Te₂ (0 ≤ x ≤ 0.3). Inset shows the enlarged low
temperature part of 2 ∼ 4 K (normalized at 4 K).

conductivity in pure IrTe₂ (x = 0) is slightly increased below the T_(s)
whereas Rh substitution brings an increase in κ_(L) in the temperature
range above the T_(s). The κ_(L) of pure IrTe₂ (x = 0) features a broad
maximum around (50-60) K, which is significantly suppressed with Rh
doping at Ir sites. This is mostly contributed by the Rh/Ir doping
disorder enhanced point defects scattering. It should be noted that the
x = 0.1 sample shows the smallest value of κ(T) as well as S(T) at low
temperature. The κ(T) and S(T) share the same tendency, suggesting
increased possibility for phonon drag with Rh substitution x.

Figure 5(a) shows the specific heat of Ir_(1 − x)Rh_(x)Te₂ (0 ≤ x ≤ 0.3)
between 1.95 and 300 K. For pure IrTe₂ (x = 0), there is a peak at 251
K, corresponding to the anomaly in thermopower and thermal conductivity.
The peak shape indicates that it is a first-order transition, consistent
with the reported value in the literature [18]. With Rh doping, the peak
shifts to 156 K for x = 0.1 and the intensity of peak also becomes
weaker and less sharp than that in the pure one, indicating a possible
change from the first- to the second-order transition near the
T_(s)[25]. The specific heat C_(p)(T) at low temperature above T_(c) can
be well fitted by using C_(p)/T = γ + βT² [Fig. 5(b)]. The evolution of
the obtained γ and derived Debye temperature Θ_(D) from β using the
relation Θ_(D) = (12π⁴NR/Sβ)^(1/3), where N = 3 is the number of atoms
per formula unit and R is the gas constant, are plotted in the inset of
Fig. 5(b). The electronic specific heat of IrTe₂ is γ ∼ 3.81 mJ/mol-K²,
close to previously reported values [11, 18]. With the increase of the
Rh content, the value of γ reaches a maximum of 8.06 mJ/mol-K² for
x = 0.2 and decreases to 6.82 mJ/mol-K² for x = 0.3. This is similar to
the Pt doping where γ starts to decrease when x ≥ 0.04, ascribed to the
decrease of DOS of IrTe₂ above the Fermi level and the upward Fermi
level shift due to the partial substitution of Pt for Ir [11].

The electronic specific heat
$C_{e}=\frac{\pi^{2}}{3}k_{B}^{2}TN(\kappa_{F})$, where N(κ_(F)) is the
DOS, κ_(F) is the Fermi energy, and k_(B) is the Boltzmann constant
Taken into consideration the Mott relationship
$S=\frac{\pi^{2}\kappa_{F}}{3\kappa}\frac{N(\kappa_{F})}{n}$,
thermopower probes the specific heat per electron: S = C_(e)/ne, where
the units are V K⁻¹ for S, J K⁻¹ m⁻³ for C_(e), and m⁻³ for n,
respectively. However, it is common to express γ = C_(e)/T in J K⁻²
mol⁻¹ units. In order to focus on the S/C_(e) ratio, let us define the
dimensionless quantity, $q=\frac{S}{T}\frac{N\kappa_{F}}{\gamma}$, where
N_(A) the Avogadro number gives

Figure 5: (a) Temperature dependence of specific heat C_(p) for
Ir_(1 − x)Rh_(x)Te₂ (0 ≤ x ≤ 0.3). (b) The low temperature specific heat
divided by temperature C_(p)/T as a function of T² in zero field. The
solid curve represents the fittings using C_(p)/T = γ + βT². Inset shows
the evolution of Debye temperature Θ_(D) and electronic specific heat
coefficient γ.

the number of carriers in the unit cell (proportional to 1/n) [36]. The
constant N_(A)e = 9.6 × 10⁵ C mol⁻¹ is also called the Faraday number.
We observe reduction of q from 0.49(1) for pure IrTe₂, to 0.16(1) for
x = 0.1, and 0.18(1) for x = 0.2 and 0.3. This implies an increase of
carrier concentration as Rh enters the lattice.

Then we discuss the superconducting state observed in
Ir_(1 − x)Rh_(x)Te₂ (x = 0.2). According to the McMillan formula for
electron-phonon mediated superconductivity [37], the electron-phonon
coupling constant λ can be deduced by

$$T_{c}=\frac{\Theta_{D}}{1.45}\exp\left[-\frac{1.04(1+\lambda)}{\lambda-\mu^{*} (1+0.62\lambda)}\right],$$

where μ^(*) ≈ 0.13 is the common value for Coulomb pseudopotential. By
using T_(c) = 2.45(1) K and Θ_(D) = 201(1) K in Ir_(0.8)Rh_(0.2)Te₂, we
obtain λ ≈ 0.59(2), a typical value of weak-coupled BCS superconductor.
The specific heat jump at T_(c), ΔC_(ex)/γT_(c) ≈ 1.18, is somewhat
smaller than the weak coupling value 1.43 [37]. All these results
indicate that Ir_(0.8)Rh_(0.2)Te₂ is a weak-coupled BCS superconductor,
similar to Ir_(0.95)Pd_(0.05)Te₂[38]. Recent x-ray pair distribution
function approach reveals that the local structure of
Ir_(0.8)Rh_(0.2)Te₂ could be well explained by a dimer-free model, as
well as in Ir_(0.95)Rh_(0.05)Te₂, ruling out the possibility of there
being nanoscale dimer fluctuations mediated superconducting pairing
[26].

## IV Conclusion

In summary, we have investigated thermal transport properties of
Ir_(1 − x)Rh_(x)Te₂ (0 ≤ x ≤ 0.3). The decrease of thermopower in pure
IrTe₂ at T_(s) implies that dimer formation is related to partial
localization of hole-type carriers below the structural transition. The
isovalent Rh substitution in Ir_(1 − x)Rh_(x)Te₂ results in an increase
of number of carriers per unit cell as Rh enters the lattice and
weak-coupling BCS superconductivity. Further investigation of stripe
phases existence in Ir_(1 − x)Rh_(x)Te₂ using real-space resolving
methods would be useful for addressing the microscopic connection of
phonon-related Cooper pairing on the border of exotic structural
transitions [39, 40].

###### Acknowledgements.

This work has benefited from using the X7B beamline at the National
Synchrotron Light Source at Brookhaven National Laboratory. We are
indebted to Jonathan Hanson for his help with the x-ray diffraction
experiment setup. Work at Brookhaven is supported by the US DOE under
Contract No. DE-SC0012704.

## References

* [1] J. A. Wilson and A. D. Yoffe, Adv. Phys. **18**, 193 (1969). * [2]
J. A. Wilson, F. J. DiSalvo, and S. Mahajan, Adv. Phys. **24**, 117
(1975). * [3] A. H. Castro Neto, Phys. Rev. Lett. **86**, 4382 (2001). *
[4] T. Valla, A. V. Fedorov, P. D. Johnson, J. Xue, K. E. Smith, and F.
J. DiSalvo, Phys. Rev. Lett. **85**, 4759 (2000). * [5] L. J. Li, E. C.
T. O’Farrel, K. P. Loh, G. Eda, B. Ozyilmaz, and A. H. Castro Neto,
Nature (London) **529**, 185 (2016). * [6] Y. Liu, R. Ang, W. J. Lu, W.
H. Song, L. J. Li, and Y. P. Sun, Appl. Phys. Lett. **102**, 192602
(2013). * [7] B. Sipos, A. F. Kusmartseva, A. Akrap, H. Berger, L.
Forro, and E. Tutis, Nat. Mater. **7**, 960 (2008). * [8] A. M.
Gabovich, A. I. Voitenko, J. F. Annett, and M. Ausloos, Supercond. Sci.
Technol. **14**, R1 (2001). * [9] Y. Liu, L. J. Li, W. J. Lu, R. Ang, X.
Z. Liu, and Y. P. Sun, J. Appl. Phys. **115**, 043915 (2014). * [10] Y.
Liu, W. J. Lu, L. J. Li, X. D. Zhu, W. H. Song, R. Ang, L. S. Ling, X.
Z. Liu, and Y. P. Sun, J. Appl. Phys. **117**, 163912 (2015). * [11] S.
Pyon, K. Kudo, and M. Nohara, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **81**, 053701
(2012). * [12] J. J. Yang, Y. J. Choi, Y. S. Oh, A. Hogan, Y. Horibe, K.
Kim, B. I. Min, and S.-W. Cheong, Phys. Rev. Lett. **108**, 116402
(2012). * [13] M. Kamitani, M. S. Bahramy, R. Arita, S. Seki, T. Arima,
Y. Tokura, and S. Ishiwata, Phys. Rev. B **87**, 180501(R) (2013). *
[14] N. Matsumoto, K. Taniguchi, R. Endoh, H. Takano, and S. Nagata, J.
Low Temp. Phys. **117**, 1129 (1999). * [15] G. L. Pascut, K. Haule, M.
J. Gutmann, S. A. Barnett, A. Bombardi, S. Artyukhin, T. Birol, D.
Vanderbilt, J. J. Yang, S.-W. Cheong, and V. Kiryukhin, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**112**, 086402 (2014). * [16] T. Toriyama, M. Kobori, T. Konishi, Y.
Ohta, K. Sugimoto, J. Kim, A. Fujiwara, S. Pyon, K. Kudo, and M. Nohara,
J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **83**, 033701 (2014). * [17] D. Ootsuki, Y.
Wakisaka, S. Pyon, K. Kudo, M. Nohara, M. Arita, H. Anzai, H. Namatame,
M. Taniguchi, N. L. Saini, and T. Mizokawa, Phys. Rev. B **86**, 014519
(2012). * [18] A. F. Fang, G. Xu, T. Dong, P. Zheng, and N. L. Wang,
Sci. Rep. **3**, 1153 (2013). * [19] K. Mizuno, K.-i. Magishi, Y.
Shinomome, T. Saito, K. Koyama, N. Matsumoto, and S. Nagata, Physica B
**312-313**, 818 (2002). * [20] D. Ootsuki, S. Pyon, K. Kudo, M. Nohara,
M. Horio, T. Yoshida, A. Fujimori, M. Arita, H. Anzai, H. Namatame, M.
Taniguchi, N. L. Saini, and T. Mizokawa, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **82**,
093704 (2013). * [21] Q. Li, W. Lin, J. Yan, X. Chen, A. G.
Gianfrancesco, D. J. Singh, D. Mandrus, S. Kalinin, and M. Pan, Nat.
Commun. **5**, 5358 (2014). * [22] A. Kiswandhi, J. S. Brooks, H. B.
Cao, J. Q. Yan, D. Mandrus, Z. Jiang, and H. D. Zhou, Phys. Rev. B
**87**, 121107 (2013). * [23] Y. S. Oh, J. J. Yang, Y. Horibe, and S.-W.
Cheong, Phys. Rev. Lett. **110**, 127209 (2013). * [24] O. Ivashko, L.
Yang, D. Destraz, E. Martino, Y. Chen, C. Y. Guo, H. Q. Yuan, A. Pisoni,
P. Matus, S. Pyon, K. Kudo, M. Nohara, L. Forro, H. M. Ronnow, M.
Hucker, M. v. Zimmerman, and J. Chang, Sci. Rep. **7**, 17157 (2017). *
[25] K. Kudo, M. Kobayashi, S. Pyon, and M. Nohara, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn.
**82**, 085001 (2013).

* [26] R. Yu, S. Banerjee, H. C. Lei, R. Sinclair, M. Abeykoon, H. D.
Zhou, C. Petrovic, Z. Guguchia, and E. S. Bozin, Phys. Rev. B **97**,
174515 (2018). * [27] D. Ootsuki, T. Toriyama, M. Kobayashi, S. Pyon, K.
Kudo, M. Nohara, T. Sugimoto, T. Yoshida, M. Horio, A. Fujimori, M.
Arita, H. Anzai, H. Namatame, M. Taniguchi, N. L. Saini, T. Konishi, Y.
Ohta, and T. Mizokawa, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **83**, 033704 (2014). * [28]
A. P. Hammersley, S. O. Svenson, M. Hanfland, and D. Hauserman, High
Pressure Res. **14**, 235 (1996). * [29] A. C. Larson and R. B. Von
Dreele, General Structure Analysis System (GSAS), Los Alamos National
Laboratory Report LAUR 86-748 (2004),
https://11bm.xray.aps.anl.gov/documents/GSASManual.pdf. * [30] B. H.
Toby, J. Appl. Crystallogr. **34**, 210 (2001). * [31] R. A. Young, _The
Rietveld Method_ (Oxford University Press, Oxford, 1995). * [32] E. F.
Hockings and J. G. White, J. Phys. Chem. **64**, 1042 (1960). * [33] C.
S. Lee and G. J. Miller, Inorg. Chem. **38**, 5139 (1999). * [34] C.
Pettenkofer and W. Jaegermann, Phys. Rev. B **50**, 8816 (1994). * [35]
R. D. Bamard, _Thermoelectricity in Metals and Alloys_ (Taylor &
Francis, London, 1972). * [36] K. Behnia, D. Jaccard, and J. Flouquet,
J. Phys.: Condens. Matter. **16**, 5187 (2004). * [37] W. L. McMillan,
Phys. Rev. **167**, 331 (1968). * [38] D. J. Yu, F. Yang, Lin Miao, C.
Q. Han, M.-Y. Yao, F. Zhu, Y. R. Song, K. F. Zhang, J. F. Ge, X. Yao, Z.
Q. Zou, Z. J. Li, B. F. Gao, Canhua Liu, D. D. Guan, C. L. Gao, D. Qian,
and J.-f. Jia, Phys. Rev. B **89**, 100501 (2014). * [39] J. Dai,
Kristjan Haule, J. J. Yang, Y. S. Oh, S.-W. Cheong, and W. Wu, Phys.
Rev. B **90**, 235121 (2014). * [40] T. Mauerer, M. Vogt, P.-J. Hsu, G.
L. Pascut, K. Haule, V. Kiryukhin, J. Yang, S.-W. Cheong, W. Wu, and M.
Bode, Phys. Rev. B **94**, 014106 (2016).
