# Hydrogen in layered iron arsenides: Indirect electron doping to induce
superconductivity

Taku Hanna,¹ Yoshinori Muraba,¹ Satoru Matsusishi,¹ Naoki Igawa,²
Katsuaki Kodama,² Shin-ichi Shamoto,² and Hideo Hosono^(1, 3, *)

###### Abstract

Utilizing the high stability of calcium and rare-earth hydrides,
CaFeAsF_(1 − x)H_(x) (x = 0.0-1.0) and SmFeAsO_(1 − x)H_(x) (x =
0.0-0.47) have been synthesized using high pressure to form
hydrogen-substituted 1111-type iron-arsenide superconductors. Neutron
diffraction and density functional calculations have demonstrated that
the hydrogens are incorporated as H⁻ ions occupying F⁻ sites in the
blocking layer of CaFeAsF. The resulting CaFeAsF_(1 − x)H_(x) is
nonsuperconducting, whereas, SmFeAsO_(1 − x)H_(x) is a superconductor,
with an optimal $T_{\rm c}$ = 55 K at x∼ 0.2. It was found that up to 40

2011 10.1103/PhysRevB.84.024521

## I Introduction

Since the discovery of superconductivity in LaFeAsO_(1 − x)F_(x)
($T_{\rm c}$ = 28 K),¹ layered iron pnictides and related materials have
been intensively investigated as candidates for high-$T_{\rm c}$
superconductors. To date, various types of iron-based superconductors
have been synthesized,²⁻[2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15,
16, 17] with the highest $T_{\rm c}$ of ∼ 55 K being recorded in
SmFeAsO_(0.9)F_(0.1).¹² ⁻ ¹⁷ The 111-type iron arsenides LnFeAsO (Ln =
lanthanide) with a ZrCuSiAs-type structure [18] are composed of stacks
of alternating FeAs anti-fluorite-type conducting layers and LnO
fluorite-type blocking layers. Although the parent compounds are
nonsuperconducting at ambient pressures, they are superconducting when
electrons are doped into the FeAs layer via fluorine substitution at the
oxygen sites (O²⁻ = F⁻ + e⁻),^(1, 13 − 17) oxygen vacancy formation (O²⁻
= V₀ + 2e⁻),¹⁹ ⁻ ²¹ or transition-metal (TM, with excess electrons when
compared with Fe, such as Co or Ni) substitution into the iron
site.²² ⁻ ²⁵ TM substitution, adding electrons to the FeAs layer, is a
direct doping mode, whereas, F-substitution or O-vacancy formation is an
indirect mode because impurities are doped to the blocking layers and
the electrons are transferred to the FeAs layers. The general consensus
is that indirect doping gives a higher $T_{\rm c}$ because less
structural and electrical disturbances occur in the superconducting
layers. However, overdoping via the indirect mode has not been confirmed
for most 1111-type iron arsenides. In other words, further improvement
in the $T_{\rm c}$ may be possible. For example, the solubility limit of
fluorine substitution in LnFeAsO is lower than 20

In this paper, we propose a method for indirect electron doping to
induce superconductivity in 1111-type iron arsenides. By using a
high-pressure synthesis method with an excess hydrogen source, CaFeAsH,
an analog of LnFeAsO, and the solid solution between CaFeAsF^(30, 31)
and CaFeAsH (CaFeAsF_(1 − x)H_(x) where 0 ≤ x ≤ 1) have been
synthesized. While CaFeAsF_(1 − x)H_(x) is nonsuperconducting like
LnFeAsO, these results indicate the anion site in the blocking layer can
be substituted with H⁻. Considering the facile formation of metal
hydrides with rare earths, H⁻ appears to be stabilized in these
rare-earth compounds. Thus, the hydrogen substitution technique has been
applied to electron doping in SmFeAsO as with fluorine substitution (O²⁻
= H⁻ + e⁻). Up to 40

## II Experimental

CaFeAsH was synthesized by the solid-state reaction of CaAs, Fe₂As, and
CaH₂ with LiAlH₄ as an excess hydrogen source, at 1000degC and 2 GPa
(CaAs + Fe₂As + CaH₂→ 2CaFeAsH). A belt-type anvil cell was employed for
the high-pressure synthesis. Powders of CaAs and Fe₂As were prepared
from their respective metals (Ca: 99.99

The resulting crystalline phases were identified by powder x-ray
diffraction (XRD) using a Bruker AXS GmbH diffractometer model D8
ADVANCE (Cu-rotating anode). Rietveld analysis of XRD patterns was
performed using the rotpas code. [37] The amount of hydrogen
incorporated in the resulting samples was evaluated by thermogravimetry
and mass spectroscopy (TG-MS) performed using a Bruker AXS GmbH
TG-DTA/MS9610 equipped with a gas feed port to inject the standard H₂
gas into the sample chamber. Twenty milligrams of sample were heated to
800 degC with a heating rate of 20 Kmin⁻¹ under a helium gas flow.
Hydrogen released from the sample, in the form of an H₂ molecule was
ionized and was detected by a quadrupole mass spectrometer as an ion
with mass-to-charge ratio (_m_/_z_) = 2. Elemental composition of
SmFeAsO_(1 − x)H_(x) (Sm:Fe:As:O) was determined by a JEOL, Inc.
JXA-8530F electron-probe microanalyzer (EPMA) equipped with a
field-emission-type electron gun and wavelength dispersive x-ray
detectors. The micrometer-scale compositions within the main phase were
probed on five to ten focal points, and the results were averaged.

Neutron powder diffraction (NPD) of CaFeAsD was measured on ∼3 g of
sample by the high-resolution powder diffractometer installed at the
JRR-3 reactor of the Japan Atomic Energy Agency (beam collimation of
30^(′)-40^(′)-(sample)-6^(′) with neutron wavelength λ = 0.182 391 nm).
Rietveld analyses of the NPD patterns were performed using the rietan-fp
code. [38]

The dc resistivity and magnetic susceptibility were measured in the
temperature range of 2-300 K, using a physical properties measurement
system (Quantum Design, Inc.) with a vibrating sample magnetometer
attachment.

To investigate the electronic structure of CaFeAsH, density functional
theory calculations were performed using the generalized gradient
approximation Perdew-Burke-Ernzerhof functional [39] and the projected
augmented plane-wave method [40] implemented in the Vienna _ab initio_
simulation program (vasp) code, [41] following Refs. [42] and [43]. A
$\sqrt{2}a\times\sqrt{2}b\times\sqrt{2}c$ supercell containing eight
chemical formulas was used for the calculation, and the plane-wave basis
set cutoff was set to 600 eV. For Brillouin-zone integrations to
calculate the total energy and density of states (DOS), 4 x 4 x 2
Monkhorst-Pack grids of k points were used. To obtain the projected DOS,
the charge density was decomposed over the atom-centered spherical
harmonics with a Wigner-Seitz radius r = (3_V_cell/4_p_N)1/3, where
_V_cell and N are the unit-cell volume and the number of atoms in a unit
cell, respectively.

## III Results and Discussion

Figure 1(a) shows powder XRD patterns of the resulting products at RT.
Except for several minor peaks due to metal Fe and Ca(OH₂)/Ca(OD₂)
phases (< 5 wt

As shown in Fig. 1(b), weight loss involving the emission of the H₂
molecule was observed from 200 degC to 600 degC. The TG-MS measurement
continued to 800 degC, where the sample decomposed into a mixture of
CaFe₂As₂, FeAs, and unknown phases probably consisting of Ca with O₂,
N₂, and/or H₂O gas from the He gas flow. The amount of released H₂ was
estimated to be 3.08 mmol/g from the integration of the mass peak
_m_/_z_ = 2. This quantity was almost equal to that expected for the
decomposition of CaFeAsH(2CaFeAsH → Ca + CaFe₂As₂ + H₂^(↑), 2.91
mmol/g).

Since the coherent neutron scattering cross section of deuterium (5.592
b) is comparable to that of Ca (2.78), Fe (11.22), or As (5.44), [45]
the atomic position and site occupancy of deuterium can be determined by
NPD. Figure 1(c) shows NPD patterns observed at RT and 10 K. Rietveld
analyses revealed that the anion site in the block layer is occupied by
deuterium, with the site occupancy of 0.935. [44] Taking the isotopic
purity of the LiAlD₄ and the inclusion of hydrogen from other starting
materials into account, we conclude that the remaining fraction (0.065)
of the anion site is primarily occupied by hydrogen. The NPD pattern
observed at 10 K was attributed to an orthorhombic phase, space group:
_Cmma_, a = 0.549 213(16), b = 0.545 660(16), and c = 0.821 154(24) nm.
This crystal symmetry change is the same as in other 1111-type iron
arsenides with tetragonal to orthorhombic transitions reported in the
range of 120-180 K. High-pressure synthesis appears to be essential for
the formation of CaFeAsH because no such phase could be prepared at
ambient pressures.

Figure 2(a) shows the temperature dependence of dc electrical
resistivity (ρ) in CaFeAsH and CaFeAsD measured from 300 to 2 K. Both
samples exhibit sudden decreases at ∼100 K ($T_{\rm{anom}}$). This
anomaly has also been observed in 1111- and 122-type iron arsenides and
has been attributed to a tetragonal to orthorhombic transition.

Figure 2(b) shows the calculated total DOS and PDOS of CaFeAsH. The
total energy was minimized with respect to both the coordinates of all
atoms and the lattice parameters. Then, the stripe-type
antiferromagnetic ordering of the Fe spins, commonly observed for
1111-type Fe arsenides below $T_{\rm{anom}}$, was obtained as the most
stable magnetic structure. Total DOS and Fe PDOS profiles revealed the
semimetallic nature of CaFeAsH, with Fe 3d up-spin and down-spin bands
overlapped at the Fermi level (_E_ = 0). Hydrogen 1s levels were located

at ∼2 eV below the Fermi level and were fully occupied. It is evident
from these results that hydrogen is incorporated as H⁻ (1s²) in CaFeAsH.
This finding is consistent with the similarities in the ρ-T curves of
CaFeAsH and CaFeAsF, indicating that the replacement of F sites with H⁻
ions does not seriously affect the electronic structure of the FeAs
conduction layer.

Based on the similarity of the charge and size of the hydride and
fluorine ion, the formation of the solid solution CaFeAsF_(1 − x)H_(x)
was expected. Figure 2(c) shows the lattice parameters a and c as a
function of x. The value of x in the resulting CaFeAsF_(1 − x)H_(x) was
evaluated by TG-MS measurement. While the lattice parameter a was almost
independent of x, the value of c was proportional to x, indicating that
the geometry of the CaF_(1 − x)H_(x) layer is determined by the weighted
average of the ionic radius of F⁻ ($r_{\rm F}$) and H⁻ ($r_{\rm H}$).
From the F-Ca distance ($r_{\rm F}$ + $r_{\rm Ca}$ = 233.7 pm) and the
H-Ca bond length ($r_{\rm H}$ + $r_{\rm Ca}$ = 230.2 pm) evaluated from
Rietveld analysis, the ionic radius of H⁻ was estimated for 1111-type
iron arsenides. On the assumption that an F⁻ coordinated by four Ca²⁺
ions retains Shannon’s ionic radius ($r_{\rm F}$ = 131 pm),[46] then,
the ionic radius of Ca²⁺ was calculated to be 102.7 pm. The radius of H⁻
calculated from the H-Ca bond length (230.2 pm) in CaFeAsH is 127.5 pm,
which is smaller than that of F⁻ by 2.8

Figure 1: (Color online) (a) Powder XRD patterns of CaFeAsH and CaFeAsD
at room temperature (RT). (b) TG-MS (m/z = 2 corresponds to the H₂
molecule) profiles of CaFeAsH. Weight loss due the decomposition of the
sample with hydrogen emission was observed from 200 °C to 600 °C.
Hydrogen concentration was estimated to be 1.05 molecules per unit cell
by integration of the MS trace curve. (c) NPD pattern of CaFeAsD
observed at 300 and 10 K. (d) Crystal structure of CaFeAsH at 300 K
(tetragonal) and 10 K (orthorhombic).

Chevalier _et al._[47] reported the synthesis of 1111-type hydrides
Ln_MX_H (_M_ = Mn, Fe, and Co; X = Si and Ge). These crystals, with
stacks of alternating LnH hydride layers and _MX_ layers, were made by
hydrogen insertion onto CeFeSi-type [48] Ln_MX_. In contrast, the
present high-pressure synthesis using hydrides does not require the
precursor.

Then, the hydrogen-substitution technique was applied to electron doping
in SmFeAsO. Figure 3(a) shows

Figure 3: (Color online) Structural and chemical composition data on
SmFeAsO1-,H2. (a) Powder XRD patterns of SmFeAsO1−,H2 (nominal x = 0.3,
0.4, and 0.5). Insets show close-up views. (b) TG-MS (m/z = 2) profiles
with nominal x = 0.15. H2 gas emission associated with weight loss was
observed from 400 °C to 800 °C. (c) Oxygen deficiency content determined
by EPMA measurement (_y_) and hydrogen content estimated by the TG-MS
method (_x_) in SmFeAsO1−,H2 as a function of nominal x in the starting
mixture. The measured x is almost equal to y and nominal x, indicating
the deficiency of the oxygen site is wholly compensated by the
occupation of hydrogen. (d) Lattice constants (_α_ and _c_) as a
function of x.

Figure 2: (Color online) (a) ρ-_T_ profile of CaFeAsH and CaFeAsD
compared with CaFeAsF. (b) Total DOS and atomic projected density of
states (PDOS) of CaFeAsH obtained by density functional calculation
using the vasp code. The origin was set at the Fermi level. (c)
Variation of lattice constants (_α_, _c_) as a function of x in the
solid solution CaFeAsF1−,H2. Hydrogen content (_x_) was estimated by the
TG-MS method.

representative powder XRD patterns of SmFeAsO_(1 − x)H_(x) (nominal x
values in starting mixtures are 0.3, 0.4, and 0.5). When nominal x
exceeds ∼0.4, the SmAs phase begins to segregate, implying the actual
hydrogen content (x) is lower than the nominal x. Figure 3(b) shows the
TG-MS profile (m/z = 2) of SmFeAsO_(1 − x)H_(x) with nominal x = 0.15.
Hydrogen incorporated in SmFeAsO_(1 − x)H_(x) was released between 400
^(∘)C and 800 ^(∘)C. The shape of the emission curve is close to that of
CaFeAsF_(1 − x)H_(x). Figure 3(c) compares the hydrogen content (x) and
the deficient amount of oxygen (y) in prepared samples per chemical
formula (SmFeAsO₁ − yH_(x)) as a function of nominal x in the starting
mixture. The former value was determined by TG-MS, and the latter was
measured with EPMA. For nominal x≤ 0.4, the hydrogen content agrees with
y and the nominal x, indicating the oxygen site (O²⁻) was successfully
substituted with hydrogen (H⁻). Figure 3(d) shows the variation of
lattice constants a and c of the SmFeAsO_(1 − x)H_(x) system. Same as
CaFeAsF_(1 − x)H_(x), the decrease of c with x corresponds to the
difference in ionic radii between O²⁻ (142 pm) and H⁻ (127.5 pm in
CaFeAsF_(1 − x)H_(x)). On the other hand, a of the SmFeAsO_(1 − x)H_(x)
system apparently decreases with x. This result contrasts with the
CaFeAsF_(1 − x)H_(x) system in which a is independent of x. It is likely
to be a result of electron doping in the FeAs layer by H substitution
(O²⁻ = H⁻ + e⁻), i.e., the doped electrons occupy the bonding states
(i.e., a hole pocket) of the FeAs layer and shorten the intralayer Fe-Fe
distance.

Figure 4(a) shows the temperature dependence of the electrical
resistivity in SmFeAsO_(1 − x)H_(x). A sudden drop of resistivity due to
superconductivity was observed for x≥ 0.03, and the maximum critical
temperature $T_{\rm c}$ (onset) was 55 K at x∼ 0.2. As x increased over
0.2, $T_{\rm c}$ decreased, indicating the appearance of an overdoped
region. To reveal the change in transport properties of the normal
conducting state with hydrogen substitution, we examined the exponent n
of ρ(T) ∼ T^(n) for each sample by fitting the data to ρ(T) = ρ₀ +
AT^(n) in the temperature range between T just above $T_{\rm c}$ and T =
130 K, where ρ₀ is the residual component of resistivity. Figure 4(b)
shows the results; n decreases from 2 to 1 with x below the optimal
substitution level (x< 0.2), while ρ₀ rapidly decreases to 0. The T²
dependence to high temperature is characteristic for strongly correlated
Fermi liquid systems in which electron-electron interaction dominates
the scattering of the carriers.[49]T linear dependence at the optimal
level indicates a non-Fermi liquid state was induced by electron doping
via hydrogen substitution. Similar behaviors have also been observed in
122-type and some 1111-type iron arsenides.[50, 51] On the contrary, n
deceases to 0.5 in the overdoping region (x> 0.2). This is quite
different from 122-type arsenide in which n again is close to ∼2 in the
overdoping region. Figure 4(c) shows magnetic susceptibility (4π χ) vs T
plots of x = 0.03-0.47 samples under ZFC and FC with a magnetic field of
10 Oe. The diamagnetism due to superconductivity was observed below
$T_{\rm c}$ (mag) for x = 0.07-0.43. Shielding volume

Figure 4: (Color online) Electrical and magnetic properties. (a) ρ-T
profiles of SmFeAsO_(1 − x)H_(x) in underdoped (left, x = 0.0–0.19) and
overdoped states (right, x = 0.22–0.47). (b) Log [ρ(T) − ρ₀] vs log T
plots for data on the nonsuperconducting region, where ρ₀ is the
residual component of resistivity obtained from fitting (see text).
Lower parts show ρ₀ and the exponent residual resistivity n as a
function of x. (c) ZFC and FC 4π χ-T curves measured under the magnetic
field (H) of 10 Oe. (d) Magnetization (M) vs H curves and shielding
volume fraction vs x plot at 2 K. (e) x-T diagram of
SmFeAsO_(1 − x)H_(x) superimposed by that of SmFeAsO_(1 − x)H_(x).[33]

fraction (SVF) of each sample was obtained from the gradient of the
liner region in the magnetization (M) vs the field (H) plot observed at
2 K [Fig. 4(d)]. The SVF above 45

## IV Summary

The 1111-type CaFeAsF_(1 − x)H_(x) (0 < x ≤ 1) and SmFeAsO_(1 − x)H_(x)
(0 < x ≤ 0.4) were synthesized by a high-pressure technique with an
excess hydrogen source. Substitution of H⁻ into the F⁻ site in CaFeAsF
was confirmed by NPD analysis and density functional calculations. The
resulting CaFeAsF_(1 − x)H_(x) were nonsuperconducting with a ρ-T
anomaly at ∼100 K due to a tetragonal to orthorhombic transition
commonly observed in AeFeAsF and LnFeAsO. In SmFeAsO_(1 − x)H_(x)
(0 < x ≤ 0.4), H⁻ substitution into the O²⁻ site supplies electrons to
the FeAs layer, giving rise to superconductivity with an optimized
$T_{\rm c}$ of 55 K. Further H⁻ substitution beyond the optimal level
leads to a decrease in $T_{\rm c}$ up to x = 0.4. The present results
suggest the hydrogen (H⁻) substitution to the anion site is generally
applicable for electron doping in 1111-type iron-arsenide
superconductors.

###### Acknowledgements.

We thank Toshiyuki Atou and Osamu Fukunaga of the Tokyo Institute of
Technology for their valuable discussions. This research is funded by
the Japan Society for the Promotion of Science (JSPS) through the FIRST
program, initiated by the CSTP.

## References

* [1] Y. Kamihara, T. Watanabe, M. Hirano, and H. Hosono, J. Am. Chem.
Soc. **130**, 3296 (2008). * [2] M. Rotter, M. Tegel, and D. Johrendt,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **101**, 107006 (2008). * [3] C. Gen-Fu, L. Zheng, L.
Gang, H. Wan-Zheng, D. Jing, Z. Jun, Z. Xiao-Dong, Z. Ping, W. Nan-Lin,
and L. Jian-Lin, Chin. Phys. Lett. **25**, 3403 (2008). * [4] G. Wu, H.
Chen, T. Wu, Y. L. Xie, Y. J. Yan, R. H. Liu, X. F. Wang, J. J. Ying,
and X. H. Chen, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter **20**, 422201 (2008). * [5]
F. Hsu, J. Luo, K. Yeh, T. Chen, T. Huang, P. M. Wu, Y. Lee, Y. Huang,
Y. Chu, D. Yan, and M. Wu, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA **105**, 14262
(2008). * [6] X. Wang, Q. Liu, Y. Lv, W. Gao, L. Yang, R. Yu, F. Li, and
C. Jin, Solid State Commun. **148**, 538 (2008). * [7] H. Ogino, Y.
Matsumura, Y. Katsura, K. Ushiyama, S. Horii, K. Kishio, and J.
Shimoyama, Supercond. Sci. Technol. **22**, 075008 (2009). * [8] X. Zhu,
F. Han, G. Mu, P. Cheng, B. Shen, B. Zeng, and H. Wen, Sci. China, Ser.
G **52**, 1876 (2010). * [9] X. Zhu, F. Han, G. Mu, P. Cheng, B. Shen,
B. Zeng, and H. H. Wen, Phys. Rev. B **79**, 220512 (2009). * [10] G. F.
Chen, T. Xia, H. X. Yang, J. Q. Li, P. Zheng, J. L. Luo, and N. L. Wang,
Supercond. Sci. Technol. **22**, 072001 (2009). * [11] J. Guo, S. Jin,
G. Wang, S. Wang, K. Zhu, T. Zhou, M. He, and X. Chen, Phys. Rev. B
**82**, 180520 (2010). * [12] H. Takahashi, K. Igawa, K. Ari, Y.
Kamihara, M. Hirano, and H. Hosono, Nature (London) **453**, 376
(2008). * [13] G. F. Chen, Z. Li, D. Wu, G. Li, W. Z. Hu, J. Dong, P.
Zheng, J. L. Luo, and N. L. Wang, Phys. Rev. Lett. **100**, 247002
(2008). * [14] Z. A. Ren, J. Yang, W. Lu, W. Yi, G. C. Che, X. L. Dong,
L. L. Sun, and Z. X. Zhao, Mater. Res. Innovations **12**, 105 (2008). *
[15] Z. Ren, J. Yang, W. Lu, W. Yi, X. Shen, Z. Li, G. Che, X. Dong, L.
Sun, F. Zhou, and Z. Zhao, Europhys. Lett. **82**, 57002 (2008). * [16]
X. H. Chen, T. Wu, G. Wu, R. H. Liu, H. Chen, and D. F. Fang, Nature
(London) **453**, 761 (2008). * [17] R. Zhi-An, L. Wei, Y. Jie, Y. Wei,
S. Xiao-Li, Zheng-Cai, C. Guang-Can, D. Xiao-Li, S. Li-Ling, Z. Fang,
and Z. Zhong-Xian, Chin. Phys. Lett. **25**, 2215 (2008). * [18] R.
Potten and D. Johrendt, Z. Naturforsch., B: Chem. Sci. **63**, 1135
(2008). * [19] Z. Ren, G. Che, X. Dong, J. Yang, W. Lu, W. Yi, X. Shen,
Z. Li, L. Sun, F. Zhou, and Z. Zhao, Europhys. Lett. **83**, 17002
(2008). * [20] H. Kito, H. Eisaki, and A. Iyo, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn.
**77**, 063707 (2008). * [21] K. Miyazawa, K. Kihou, P. M. Shirage, C.
Lee, H. Kito, H. Eisaki, and A. Iyo, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **78**, 034712
(2009). * [22] A. S. Sefat, A. Huq, M. A. McGuire, R. Jin, B. C. Sales,
D. Mandrus, L. M. D. Cranswick, P. W. Stephens, and K. H. Stone, Phys.
Rev. B **78**, 104505 (2008).

* [23] C. Wang, Y. K. Li, Z. W. Zhu, S. Jiang, X. Lin, Y. K. Luo, S.
Chi, L. J. Li, Z. Ren, M. He, H. Chen, Y. T. Wang, Q. Tao, G. H. Cao,
and Z. A. Xu, Phys. Rev. B **79**, 054521 (2009). * [24] G. Cao, S.
Jiang, X. Lin, C. Wang, Y. Li, Z. Ren, Q. Tao, C. Feng, J. Dai, Z. Xu,
and F. C. Zhang, Phys. Rev. B **79**, 174505 (2009). * [25] Y. K. Li, X.
Lin, T. Zhou, J. Q. Shen, Q. Tao, G. H. Cao, and Z. A. Xu, J. Phys.:
Condens. Matter **21**, 355702 (2009). * [26] H. Chen, Y. Ren, Y. Qiu,
W. Bao, R. H. Liu, G. Wu, T. Wu, Y. L. Xie, X. F. Wang, Q. Huang, and X.
H. Chen, EPL **85**, 5 (2009). * [27] K. Miyazawa, K. Kihou, P. M.
Shirage, C. Lee, H. Kito, H. Eisaki, and A. Iyo, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn.
**78**, 034712 (2009). * [28] P. M. Shirage, K. Miyazawa, K. Kihou, H.
Kito, Y. Yoshida, Y. Tanaka, H. Eisaki, and A. Iyo, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**105**, 037004 (2010). * [29] K. Miyazawa, S. Ishida, K. Kihou, P. M.
Shirage, M. Nakajima, C. H. Lee, H. Kito, Y. Tomioka, T. Ito, H. Eisaki,
H. Yamashita, H. Mukuda, K. Tokiwa, S. Uchida, and A. Iyo, Appl. Phys.
Lett. **96**, 072514 (2010). * [30] S. Matsusishi, Y. Inoue, T. Nomura,
H. Yanagi, M. Hirano, and H. Hosono, J. Am. Chem. Soc. **130**, 14428
(2008). * [31] S. Matsusishi, Y. Inoue, T. Nomura, Y. Kamihara, M.
Hirano, and H. Hosono, New J. Phys. **11**, 025012 (2009). * [32] Y.
Kamihara, T. Nomura, M. Hirano, J. Eun Kim, K. Kato, M. Takata, Y.
Kobayashi, S. Kitao, S. Higashitaniguchi, Y. Yoda, M. Seto, and H.
Hosono, New J. Phys. **12**, 033005 (2010). * [33] A. Kohler and G.
Behr, J. Supercond. Novel Magn. **22**, 565 (2009). * [34] G. Prando, P.
Carretta, A. Rigamonti, S. Sanna, A. Palenzona, M. Patti, and M.
Tropeano, Phys. Rev. B **81**, 100508 (2010). * [35] Y. Fukai and N.
Okuma, Jpn. J. Appl. Phys. **32**, L1256 (1993). * [36] Y. Fukai and N.
Okuma, Phys. Rev. Lett. **73**, 1640 (1994). * [37] TOPAS (Bruker AXS
GmbH, Karlsruhe, Germany, 2009). * [38] F. Izumi and K. Momma, Solid
State Phenomena **130**, 15 (2007). * [39] J. P. Perdew, K. Burke, and
M. Ernzerhof, Phys. Rev. Lett. **77**, 3865 (1996); **78**, 1396(E)
(1997). * [40] P. E. Blochl, Phys. Rev. B **50**, 17953 (1994). * [41]
G. Kresse and J. Furthmuller, Phys. Rev. B **54**, 11169 (1996). * [42]
T. Nomura, S. W. Kim, Y. Kamihara, M. Hirano, P. V. Sushko, K. Kato, M.
Takata, A. L. Shluger, and H. Hosono, Supercond. Sci. Technol. **21**,
125028 (2008). * [43] P. V. Sushko, A. L. Shluger, M. Hirano, and H.
Hosono, Phys. Rev. B **78**, 172508 (2008). * [44] See Supplemental
Material at http://link.aps.org/supplemental/10.1103/PhysRevB.84.024521
for CIF files containing crystallographic information of CaFeAsH(D)
crystals obtained by Rietveld refinements of XRD and NPD patterns. *
[45] V. F. Sears, Neutron News **3**, 26 (1992). * [46] R. D. Shannon,
Acta Crystallogr., Sect. A: Cryst. Phys., Diffr., Theor. Gen.
Crystallogr. **32**, 751 (1976). * [47] B. Chevalier, M. Pasturel, J.
Bobet, and O. Isnard, Solid State Commun. **134**, 529 (2005). * [48] O.
I. Bodak, E. I. Gladyshevski, and P. I. Kripyakevich, J. Struct. Chem.
**11**, 283 (1970). * [49] M. Imada, A. Fujimori, and Y. Tokura, Rev.
Mod. Phys. **70**, 1039 (1998). * [50] S. Kasahara, T. Shibauchi, K.
Hashimoto, K. Ikada, S. Tonegawa, R. Okazaki, H. Shishido, H. Ikeda, H.
Takeya, K. Hirata, T. Terashima, and Y. Matsuda, Phys. Rev. B **81**,
184519 (2010). * [51] S. Ishida, M. Nakajima, Y. Tomioka, T. Ito, K.
Miyazawa, H. Kito, C. H. Lee, M. Ishikado, S. Shamoto, A. Iyo, H.
Eisaki, K. M. Kojima, and S. Uchida, Phys. Rev. B **81**, 094515 (2010).
