# Two-band conduction in superconducting ThPt₄Ge₁₂

V. H. Tran,¹ D. Kaczorowski,¹ W. Miiller,¹ and A. Jezierski

¹Institute of Low Temperature and Structure Research, Polish Academy of
Sciences, P.O. Box 1410, 50-950 Wroclaw, Poland

²Institute of Molecular Physics, Polish Academy of Sciences, 60-179
Poznan, Poland

Received 9 November 2008; published 18 February 2009

###### Abstract

The filled-skutterudite superconductor ThPt₄Ge₁₂ was studied in the
normal state by means of thermoelectric power, magnetoresistance, and
Hall-coefficient measurements. The results indicate that this compound
exhibits a two-band conductivity with strongly temperature-dependent
carrier concentrations and mobilities. At low temperatures, the charge
transport is dominated by the contribution due to slowly moving
electrons. The experimental findings were corroborated by the results of
electronic band-structure calculations performed by the relativistic
full-potential local-orbital method.

pacs: 74.25.Fy, 74.25.Jb + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL REVIEW B
**79**, 054520 (2009)

## I Introduction

Recently, we reported superconductivity in an actionid-containing
filled-skutterudite ThPt₄Ge₁₂ below T_(c)=4.62 K.¹ Subsequently, the
superconductivity in this material was confirmed by Bauer _et al.²_
Together with MPt₄Ge₁₂,^(3, 4) where M=Sr, Ba, La, and Pr, ThPt₄Ge₁₂
forms a family of superconducting Ge-based skutterudite compounds. As
regards ThPt₄Ge₁₂, the data obtained so far indicate that this compound
can be classified as a type-II BCS-type superconductor with the
Ginzburg-Landau coherence length of 35 nm, the penetration depth of 150
nm, and the upper critical field μ₀H_(c2)=0.29 T.¹ Based on the
specific-heat data we determined the electron-phonon coupling constant
of about 0.6,¹ being enhanced compared to those of the conventional
phonon-mediated superconductors in the weak-coupling regime. Most
interestingly, there are some indications of an unconventional character
of the electron pairing in ThPt₄Ge₁₂, as in the superconducting state
both the temperature dependence of the electronic specific heat
$C_{\rm es}$ and the magnetic field variation of the Sommerfeld
coefficient deviate from the predictions of the BCS theory. Furthermore,
a nonstandard temperature dependence of H_(c2) was observed also for
PrPt₄Ge₁₂.⁴ Obviously, to elucidate the microscopic mechanism of
superconductivity in ThPt₄Ge₁₂, one needs information on the electronic
properties of this compound in both the superconducting region and the
normal state.

Owing to high sensitivity to changes in the electronic density of
states, experimental techniques probing charge transport such as
thermoelectric power (TEP), magnetoresistance (MR), and Hall-coefficient
(R_(H)) measurements are believed to be most effective in determining
the type of charge carries and their concentrations and mobilities, as
well as scattering mechanisms. In this work, we characterize the
normal-state transport properties of ThPt₄Ge₁₂, by measuring TEP, MR,
and R_(H), and discuss the results in the framework of two-band
approach. The experimentally determined band parameters such as carrier
densities and mobilities and so-deduced electronic conduction mechanisms
are confronted with the electronic band structure of ThPt₄Ge₁₂,
calculated using full-potential local-orbital (FPLO) scheme.

## II Experimental Methods

Polycrystalline samples used in this study were prepared and
characterized as reported previously.¹ The thermoelectric power was
measured in the temperature range of 5-350 K using a differential
method. Temperature gradient of about 1 K was applied across the sample
length and measured by a pair of fine Au(Fe 0.07

The electronic band structure of ThPt₄Ge₁₂ was calculated by _ab initio_
FPLO method within the local-density approximation (LDA).⁵ The
exchange-correlation potential was used in the form of Perdew and Wang.⁶
The self-consistent calculations were performed for 396 k points in the
irreducible Brillouin zone, assuming the experimental cubic lattice
parameter a=8.5924 A.¹ The thorium 7s, 7p, 6d, and 5f states and the
platinum 6s, 6p, and 5d states, as well as the germanium 4s, 4p, and 3d
states, were treated as valence states, whereas the thorium 6s and 6p
states, the platinum 4f, 5s, and 5p states, and the germanium 3s and 3p
states were included in the semicore.

## III Results and Discussion

In the relativistic band structure of ThPt₄Ge₁₂, displayed in the upper
panel of Fig. 1, one may distinguish several hybridized subsystems. The
low-energy band ranging down to the binding energy of about −12 eV has a
dominant 4s character due to the Ge atoms. The maximum density of these
states occurs in the energy interval from −10 to −8 eV, where they
hybridize with the Pt 5d states and have an admixture of the Ge 4p
states. The majority of Pt 5d states are situated in the middle energy
region from −6 to −2.5 eV. Here, they are accompanied by some minority
contributions from the Ge 4p states. Above −3 eV the Pt 5d density
gradually decreases with decreasing binding energy. As a consequence,
one observes a change in the band character from d-like to p-like that
appears at the energy of around −2.5 eV. Below the Fermi level the
occupied states consist largely of the Ge 4p electrons. Remarkably, the
contribution originating from the Th 6d and 7s states is visible above
the binding energy of −6 eV, but it is as small as about 12

The peculiarity of the band structure of ThPt₄Ge₁₂ is the presence of
three bands intersecting the Fermi level (see the bottom panel of Fig.
1). These bands, which are responsible for the metallic properties of
the compound, mainly consist of the Ge 4p and Pt 5d states that
contribute 71.8

The temperature dependence of the thermoelectric power of ThPt₄Ge₁₂ is
shown in Fig. 2. The absolute TEP value of a few μV/K is comparable with
those observed for ordinary metals, such as Cu, Au, and Pb. However, the
S(T) curve demonstrates a rather complex behavior with a positive
maximum at approximately 35 K and a negative minimum around 225 K, which
cannot be adequately accounted for within a single-band conduction model
appropriate for the ordinary metals. In nonmagnetic materials, TEP
basically consists of contributions due to phonon drag and thermal
diffusion of charge carriers. The first contribution depends on
electron-phonon scattering and phonon relaxation processes, so it drops
at low temperatures due to freezing out of the phonons but also
decreases with increasing temperature when the normal processes of
phonon-phonon scattering have an insignificant effect on the total
lifetimes of thermal phonons. Consequently, the thermoelectric power due
to phonon drag follows a T³ dependence at low temperatures and varies as
T⁻¹ at high temperatures, thus leading to the formation of a
characteristic maximum in S(T) between Θ_(D)/10 and Θ_(D)/3, [7] where
Θ_(D) is the Debye temperature. For ThPt₄Ge₁₂, Θ_(D) was found to be
about 220 K. [1] Thus the observed peak at 35 K can be attributed to
phonon drag mechanism.

At higher temperatures TEP should be dominated by thermal diffusion of
charge carriers. As can be inferred from Fig. 2, the thermopower has
negative values in the temperature range of 110-325 K and the
temperature derivative dS/dT changes its sign at about 225 K. This
behavior indicates that there is some contribution of the thermal
diffusion of electronlike carriers, competing with that of holelike
carriers. The TEP of systems with different types of charge carriers can
be considered as a weighted sum of the individual contributions from
each type of carriers. In the simple case of holelike and electronlike
two-band system, the thermoelectric power is expressed as

$$S=\frac{\sigma_{h}S_{h}+\sigma_{e}S_{e}}{\sigma_{h}+\sigma_{e}},$$
(1)

where σ_(h) and σ_(e) stand for the electrical conductivities due to
holes and electrons, respectively, while S_(h) and S_(e) are the
respective contributions to the measured thermopower. Clearly, in
multiple-band systems S(T) may have complex shapes with possible changes
in the sign of TEP with varying temperature. Thus, the observed
temperature dependence of the thermoelectric power of ThPt₄Ge₁₂ may be
qualitatively understood in terms of two-band conduction.

At temperatures high enough to neglect phonon-phonon scattering, the
total thermoelectric power varies in a manner derived by Mott for
thermal diffusion of charge carriers, [7]

$$S_{d}=\frac{\pi^{2}k_{B}^{2}T}{3e}\bigg{|}\left.\frac{\delta ln\sigma}{\delta E }\right|_{E_{F}},$$
(2)

where E_(F) stands for the Fermi energy and k_(B) is the Boltzmann
constant. In the high-temperature limit, this formula takes a simple
form:

Figure 1: Electronic bands in ThPt₄Ge₁₂ along selected symmetry lines
within the first Brillouin zone of the body-centered-cubic lattice.

Figure 2: (Color online) Temperature dependence of the thermoelectric
power of ThPt₄Ge₁₂. For the sake of clarity only every 15th experimental
point is displayed. The solid line emphasizes a straight-line behavior
of S(T) at high temperatures.

$$S_{d}=\frac{\pi^{2}k_{B}^{2}T}{eE_{F}}.$$
(3)

Fitting of the experimental data for T> 275 K to a linear function
S(T)=A+BT yields A = −8.15 μV K⁻¹ and B = 0.0252 μV K⁻². From this
result one may derive E_(F)≈ 0.295 eV. Remarkably, the latter estimate
is fairly close to the calculated energy distance of 0.35 eV from the
bottom of the holelike band to the Fermi level (see the electronic
structure in Fig. 1).

The transverse magnetoresistance data
Δρ(B, T)/ρ(0, T)$=\frac{\rho(B,T)-\rho(0,T)}{\rho(0,T)}$ of ThPt₄Ge₁₂
are shown in Fig. 3. Over the whole temperature range investigated MR is
positive. In a field of 9 T the magnetoresistance measured at 2 K is
only about 0.5

$$\Delta\rho(B,T)/\rho(0,T)={\rm MR}_{\infty}(T)\frac{\mu^{2}B^{2}}{1+\mu^{2}B^ {2}},$$
(4)

where

$${\rm MR}_{\infty}=\frac{R_{h}\sigma_{h}+R_{e}\sigma_{e}}{\sigma_{h}\sigma_{e} (R_{h}-R_{e})^{2}}$$
(5)

and

$$\mu=\left|\frac{\sigma_{h}\sigma_{e}(R_{h}-R_{e})}{\sigma_{h}+\sigma_{e}} \right|\ .$$
(6)

In these expressions μ stands for the effective mobility, while R_(h)
and R_(e) are the Hall coefficients due to the hole and electron
contributions, respectively. As displayed in Fig. 3(b), Eq. (4) provides
a proper approximation of the experimental data of ThPt₄Ge₁₂ (except for
weak magnetic fields). The so-obtained T-dependent values of the
parameters MR_(∞) and μ can be used in deriving the temperature
variations of the mobilities and concentrations of the electrons and
holes, to be discussed below.

Shown in Fig. 4 is the temperature dependence of the Hall coefficient of
ThPt₄Ge₁₂, measured in a field of 9 T with the electrical current of 20
mA. At room temperature R_(H)(T) is positive and amounts to about
0.52 × 10⁻¹⁰ m³ C⁻¹. With decreasing temperature R_(H) decreases and
changes its sign around 150 K. At lower temperatures the Hall
coefficient exhibits a strong temperature dependence with a negative
minimum at 25 K, where it achieves a value of −4 × 10⁻¹⁰ m³ C⁻¹. In this
temperature region the Hall effect seems to be dominated by electrons.
Within a simple one-band model, the value of R_(H) measured at 5 K
yields the carrier density of 1.56 m⁻³. If one takes into account the
Sommerfeld coefficient γ=42 mJ K⁻¹ mol⁻¹, determined for ThPt₄Ge₁₂ in
Ref. 1, the effective mass
m^(*)=$\frac{3\pi\mu^{2}}{(3\pi^{2}\mu)^{3}\times k_{B}^{2}}$=7.9m₀ is
derived, that is, a value considerably larger than that evaluated from
the superconducting-state data [5.6m₀ (Ref. 1)]. This discrepancy is
another evidence of multiband

Figure 4: (Color online) (a) Temperature dependence of the Hall
coefficient of ThPt₄Ge₁₂ measured in a field of 9 T. The inset shows the
temperature variation of the cotangent of the Hall angle. (b) Field
dependencies of the Hall resistivity of ThPt₄Ge₁₂ taken at several
selected temperatures. The solid lines are fits of the data to Eq. (7).

Figure 3: (Color online) (a) Temperature dependence of the
magnetoresistance of ThPt₄Ge₁₂ at 9 T. (b) Magnetoresistance isotherms
measured at several different temperatures. The solid lines are fits of
the data to Eq. (4).

character of the electronic transport in the compound studied.

Actually, the temperature dependence of the Hall coefficient of
ThPt₄Ge₁₂ is totally different from those observed for ordinary metals
and conventional superconductors.[9] Strongly T-dependent R_(H) is
usually observed in magnetic systems, where charge carriers are
scattered by spins carried on magnetic ions. The diamagnetic ThPt₄Ge₁₂
obviously cannot be considered as a representative of this group. Some
temperature dependence of R_(H) is characteristic for high-T_(c)
superconductors, and interpreted in terms of independent excitations of
spinons and holons.[10, 11] In such a case of two relaxation rates, the
Hall angle cotangent is expected to follow a relation cot Θ_(H)∝T².
However, as shown in the inset of Fig. 4(a), the data of ThPt₄Ge₁₂ do
not obey such a relation. Instead, one observes a strong increase in the
absolute value of cot Θ_(H) as temperature decreases below 50 K. One
possibility of accounting for this behavior is to associate the
cot Θ_(H)(T) variation with changes in mobilities rather than with
different scattering rates. This is because an increase in the magnitude
of cot Θ_(H) is expected when the mobilities of charge carriers decrease
and/or the concentration of the charge carriers is increased. As will be
shown below, in ThPt₄Ge₁₂ the mobilities of both electronlike and
holelike carriers increase with decreasing temperature. Hence the
behavior of cot Θ_(H) should be associated with changes in the
charge-carrier concentrations.

The change in sign of R_(H) near 150 K as well as strongly nonlinear
field dependencies of the Hall resistivity, observed below 50 K [see
Fig. 4(b)], can be straightforwardly understood within the two-band
approach, applied above for interpreting the thermoelectric power and
magnetoresistance data of ThPt₄Ge₁₂. In this model the Hall coefficient
is given by the formula[12]

$$R_{H}(B,T)=\frac{RH_{0}(T)+RH_{\infty}(T)\mu^{2}B^{2}}{1+\mu^{2}B^{2}},$$
(7)

where

$$RH_{0}=\frac{\sigma_{h}^{2}R_{h}-\sigma_{e}^{2}R_{e}}{(\sigma_{h}+\sigma_{e})^ {2}}$$
(8)

and

$$RH_{\infty}=\frac{-R_{h}R_{e}}{R_{h}-R_{e}}.$$
(9)

Fitting the experimental Hall data to Eq. (7) [see Fig. 4(b)], with the
values of the effective mobility μ as derived from the analyzes of MR,
one finds the parameters RH₀ and RH_(∞). Then, by combining Eqs. (5),
(6), (8), and (9), it is possible to calculate for each temperature the
values of the particular Hall coefficients R_(h) and R_(e) as well as
the conductivities σ_(h) and σ_(e). Finally, assuming the relations
n_((h, e))=1/e|R_((h, e))| and μ_((h, e))=|R_((h, e))|σ_((h, e)), one
obtains the temperature variations of the concentrations and the
mobilities of the charge carriers in each band. The results are depicted
in Fig. 5. It is found that the electron mobility is smaller than the
hole mobility in the entire investigated temperature range. At 5 K μ_(e)
amounts to 225 cm⁻² V⁻¹ s⁻¹ and it is over an order of magnitude smaller
than μ_(h). This finding implies a considerable contribution of
electrons to the density of states at the Fermi level. With rising
temperature the mobilities of both type of carriers strongly decrease
but more dramatic change occurs for electrons: at 300 K, μ_(e) is only
0.5 cm⁻² V⁻¹ s⁻¹, being 3 orders of magnitude smaller than μ_(h). In
turn, the carrier concentrations in ThPt₄Ge₁₂ show counterpoised
temperature variations: whereas n_(e) gradually increases with
increasing temperature, n_(h) exhibits a decrease. At 5 K, n_(e) is 3
orders of magnitude smaller than that of holes, but near room
temperature it is 6 orders of magnitude larger than n_(h). The observed
relations between the carrier concentrations reflect the behavior of the
Hall coefficient of ThPt₄Ge₁₂, which is governed by electrons at low
temperatures, yet the holes contribution becomes essential above 150 K,
i.e., in the region where RH is positive.

## IV Conclusions

The thermoelectric power, transverse magnetoresistance, and Hall-effect
data, measured for the filled-skutterudite superconductor ThPt₄Ge₁₂ in
its normal state and analyzed in terms of the two-band conduction model,
clearly indicate that the charge transport in this compound is governed
by both electrons and holes. The electronic band-structure calculations
revealed that the antibonding bands of the Ge 4p and Pt 5d are formed
around the Fermi level, with predominant Ge 4p character, thus
supporting the experimentally deduced scenario of mixed
electron-hole-type conduction. Based on these results one may conclude
that the normal-state properties of ThPt₄Ge₁₂ notably differ from those
of conventional BCS superconductors, which usually exhibit conventional
BCS superconductors, which usually exhibit one-band conduction.

Figure 5: (Color online) Temperature dependencies of the mobilities
[panel (a)] and concentrations [panel (b)] of electrons and holes in
ThPt₄Ge₁₂, as determined from the two-band analysis of the resistivity,
magnetoresistance, and Hall-effect data.

## Acknowledgments

The work was supported by the Polish Ministry of Science and Higher
Education through Research Grants No. N202 082/0449, No. N202 116
32/3270, and No. NN202 1349 33. Part of this research was done in the
frame of the National Network "Strongly correlated materials:
preparation, fundamental research and applications."

## References

* [1] D. Kaczorowski and V. H. Tran, Phys. Rev. B **77**, 180504(R)
(2008). * [2] E. Bauer, Xing-Qiu Chen, P. Rogl, G. Hilscher, H. Michor,
E. Royanian, R. Podloucky, G. Giester, O. Sologub, and A. P. Goncalves,
Phys. Rev. B **78**, 064516 (2008). * [3] E. Bauer, A. Grytsiv, Xing-Qiu
Chen, N. Melnychenko-Koblyuk, G. Hilscher, H. Kaldarar, H. Michor, E.
Royanian, G. Giester, M. Rotter, R. Podloucky, and P. Rogl, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **99**, 217001 (2007). * [4] R. Gumeniuk, W. Schnelle, H. Rosner,
M. Nicklas, A. Leithe-Jasper, and Yu. Grin, Phys. Rev. Lett. **100**,
017002 (2008). * [5] K. Koepernik and H. Eschrig, Phys. Rev. B **59**,
1743 (1999). N202 082/0449, No. N202 116 32/3270, and No. NN202 1349 33.
Part of this research was done in the frame of the National Network
"Strongly correlated materials: preparation, fundamental research and
applications." * [6] J. P. Perdew and Y. Wang, Phys. Rev. B **45**,
13244 (1992). * [7] F. J. Blatt, P. A. Schroeder, C. L. Foiles, and D.
Greig, _Thermoelectric Power of Metals_ (Plenum, New York, 1976). * [8]
A. B. Pippard, _Magnetoresistance in Metals_ (Cambridge University
Press, Cambridge, 1988). * [9] C. M. Hurd, _The Hall Effect in Metals
and Alloys_ (Plenum, New York, 1972). * [10] T. R. Chien, Z. Z. Wang,
and N. P. Ong, Phys. Rev. Lett. **67**, 2088 (1991). * [11] P. W.
Anderson, Phys. Rev. Lett. **64**, 1839 (1990). * [12] R. G. Chambers,
Proc. Phys. Soc., London, Sect. A **65**, 903 (1952).
