Since the superconducting gap in Bi_(1.8)Pb_(0.4)Sr₂Ca₂Cu₃O_(10 + δ)
(Bi-2223) was successfully measured with high-resolution photoemission
spectroscopy (PES), [1, 2] a number of important findings have been
revealed with this technique. It was reported [3] and confirmed [4] that
significant gap anisotropy exists within the _a_-_b_ plane in Bi-2212.
The maximum gap was found along the Cu-O bond direction near the
Brillouin zone boundary of the Cu-O₂ lattice (near the M point), [3, 4]
where, in the normal state, an unusually flat band exists near the Fermi
level (extended Van Hove singularity). [5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11] The
observed maximum gap value is much larger than the BCS weak-coupling
prediction. [1, 4] The gap appears to be minimal along the diagonal
directions of the Cu-O₂ lattice [Γ→(X/Y in Bi-2212). In addition, an
anomalous spectral dip feature was observed, below T_(c), at the higher
binding energy side of the electron condensation peak. [12, 13] These
photoemission observations have been incorporated in descriptions of new
pairing mechanisms for cuprate superconductors. The anisotropic gap
structure is consistent with theories that imply _d_-wave pairing [14]
or anisotropic _s_-wave order parameters. [15] It has also been
suggested that an extended Van Hove singularity band near E_(F) might
play a key role in the enhancement of T_(c) in the cuprate
superconductors [16] and in driving the metal-insulator transition. [17]
Regarding the spectral dip feature, several distinctly different
explanations have been offered, but no consensus description to account
for this feature has been achieved. [18, 19, 20, 21, 22]

To date, Bi-2212 is the only cuprate superconductor that consistently
shows an observable superconducting gap in photoemission measurements.
It is very important to find other high-T_(c) cuprates that can be
studied to obtain order-parameter information and to explore their
common electronic properties. We have undertaken an ultrahigh-resolution
study on polycrystalline, but highly textured (_c_-axis oriented)
Bi_(1.8)Pb_(0.4)Sr₂Ca₂Cu₃O_(10 + δ) (Bi-2223) and have measured energy
distribution curves at low electron binding energies. Below T_(c), the
spectral function clearly exhibits a superconducting gap and electronic
condensation. The results are compared with measurements on Bi-2212
single crystals.

The Bi-2223 samples were synthesized by a two-step process. [23]
Processed powders of Bi_(1.8)Pb_(0.4)Sr₂CaCu₂O_(x), Ca₂CuO₃, and CuO
were packed into a silver tube, which was drawn, rolled and extensively
heat treated. The resulting tape contains high-purity, dense
Bi_(1.8)Pb_(0.4)Sr₂Ca₂Cu₃O_(10 + δ) polycrystals that are approximately
_c_-axis oriented. The Ag-clad tape (25×5 mm²) has a T_(c) transition at
104 K (∼3 K transition width) and a large transport critical current
density of ∼17 000 A/cm² at 77 K in the tape plane, measured in zero
field. The photoemission experiment was carried out at the Synchrotron
Radiation Center, Stoughton, WI, using the 4m-NIM beamline, and at
Brookhaven National Laboratory, using the U3C beamline. Sections of the
Bi-2223 tape were cleaved at 13 K in a vacuum of 3×10⁻¹¹ Torr. The
cleaved surface was later examined with electron and optical
microscopes, showing densely packed grains (1−10 μm in size) with
specular _a_-_b_ planes exposed.

Figure 1 shows an energy distribution curve (EDC) from the Fermi level
to Bi 5d levels measured from Bi-2223 with 74 eV photons. The valence
band spectrum was also studied with 19 eV photons with 0.05 eV
resolution; an EDC is shown in the inset. Like Bi-2212 and
YBa₂Cu₃O_(6.9), [24] these materials are highly two-dimensional, so that
significant valence band dispersion in the _a_-_b_ plane, but very
little dispersion in the c direction are expected. Since the samples are
polycrystalline, however, valence band spectra show little angle
dependence, and they should be viewed as (_a_-_b_ plane) momentum
integrated. A Fermi edge cutoff at the top of the

valence band is clearly seen in Fig. 1. The valence bandwidth (∼6.5 eV)
is in close agreement with PES studies of other cuprate
superconductors.[24] The Bi 5d_(5/2) peak is located at 25.38 eV binding
energy with a FWHM (full width at half maximum) of 0.96 eV after
correcting for the instrument broadening (0.18 eV). For Bi-2212 single
crystals, the Bi 5d_(5/2) level was found at 25.2-25.4 eV (depending on
oxygen doping) with a width of ∼1.05 eV.[25, 26] The sharp Bi 5d data
indicate a pure Bi bonding configuration for the cleaved Bi-2223. Other
features in Fig. 1 include Pb 5d at 18.3 and 21 eV, which overlap O 2s,
and Bi 6s near 11 eV.[25] A Cu d⁸ satellite resonance feature near 12 eV
was also reported for cuprate superconductors;[27] this might also
appear in the spectrum of Fig. 1. No (contaminant) C 1s level was
detectable. These results suggest that a clean cleaved surface is
obtained which represents the metallic Bi-2223 material. The successful
cleavage of the polycrystalline Bi-2223 tape is probably due to the
exceptionally good bonding between grains in this highly textured
material.[28]

The superconducting energy gap, that opens below T_(c) in Bi-2223, is
illustrated in Fig. 2. The leading edge of the valence band was measured
at 106 K and 13 K, respectively, with an overall instrument resolution
of 14 meV. The Fermi-level position was referenced to the Fermi edge of
a co-grounded platinum sheet. Electronic drift, which can cause
uncertainty in the Fermi edge position, was less than 0.2 meV. At T = 13
K, the leading edge of the valence band shifts to higher binding energy
and a spectral pileup appears at 25-35 meV. In addition to the formation
of the gap and electron condensation, a dip or weight loss feature is
apparent in the spectrum at ∼72 meV binding energy when measured at T =
13 K.

It is useful to compare these spectral changes, that occur as the sample
goes superconducting, to those reported in previous studies of Bi-2212.
Angle-resolved photoemission spectroscopy (ARPES) measurements on
Bi-2212 single crystals showed significant gap anisotropy within the a-b
plane.[3, 4] Figure 3 shows a comparison of the Bi-2223 spectrum and an
angle-resolved EDC for Bi-2212 taken near M (along Γ-M, from Ref. [4]),
where a maximum gap opening (22 meV) was observed. The condensation peak
and dip feature in Bi-2223 are located at ∼7 meV higher binding energies
than they are in the Bi-2212, indicating a larger gap opening in
Bi-2223. The leading edge of the Bi-2223 condensation peak, however,
does not shift rigidly to higher

Figure 1: Energy distribution curve (EDC) taken, with hν = 74 eV, from
Bi-2223, scanning the valence band from E_(F) to Bi 5d levels. The inset
shows the valence band in greater detail; these data were taken with 19
eV photons. Because samples are polycrystalline, data are effectively
angle integrated.

Figure 3: Comparison of the Bi-2223 data at 13 K with the angle-resolved
spectrum from Bi-2212 (T_(c) = 85 K, taken from Ref. [4]). The Bi-2212
data were collected along Γ-M where the energy gap is largest.

Figure 2: EDC’s taken from Bi-2223, with high resolution, in the normal
(T = 106 K) and superconducting (T = 13 K) states. At T = 13 K, a
superconducting gap opens at the leading edge of the valence band.

binding energy. Some spectral weight still remains at very low energies
near the Fermi level. In fact, the leading edge of the Bi-2223 data at
13 K is ∼25 meV wide (measured at 10−90

In Bi-2212, electronic states near E_(F) measured from different regions
of the Brillouin zone show large intensity variations. EDC’s taken near
the M point, where the gap opening is largest, were typically more
intense than EDC’s taken along Γ-(X/Y), where the gap has its minimum
value.[4] It is likely that the Bi-2223 gap spectrum (Fig. 3) will be
broadened near E_(F) by the low-intensity contributions from regions of
the zone where the gap is small (or zero). Further, ARPES studies on
YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ), Bi-2212, and Bi-2201 have found an extended flat band
near the zone edge (CuO₂ plane) along the Cu-O bond direction (near M
for Bi-2212).[5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11] If a flat band near E_(F) also
exists in Bi-2223 and it has a significant photoemission cross section,
it should contribute significantly to the k-integrated data because of
its extensive spread in k space. The Bi-2223 data in Figs. 2 and 3,
contributed by all states near E_(F), might represent a substantial
spectral weight from the extended flat band where the gap is largest.
Weaker spectral contributions near E_(F), from elsewhere in the zone,
where the gap is small, cause broadening of the leading edge.

The similarity of the Bi-2223 data and the Bi-2212 spectrum near M
enables us to estimate the maximum gap value in Bi-2223. From the
Bi-2212 data, a gap value of 22 meV (2Δ/kT_(c)∼ 6.1) was obtained by a
fit in Ref. [4]. We estimate the maximum gap for Bi-2223 to be at least
29 meV (we add the 7 meV shift in the condensation peak to the gap value
for Bi-2212). The resulting reduced gap 2Δ/kT_(c)= 6.5 for Bi-2223,
suggesting that the scaling factor for cuprates increases with
increasing T_(c). Tunneling measurements of the gap in Bi-2201 (T_(c)∼ 6
K, 2Δ/kT_(c)∼ 3.5) (Ref. [29]) are also consistent with this conclusion.

We have have noted that, in addition to the formation of the
superconducting gap and the spectral pileup, a dip feature is also
apparent in the spectrum at ∼72 meV binding energy when measured at T=13
K (Fig. 3). A dip feature was also observed in electron tunneling
experiments on a number of high-T_(c) superconductors, including
Bi-2212, Bi-2201, Nd${}_{2-\rm X}$Ce_(x)CuO₄ (Ref. [29]), and
YBa₂Cu₃O_(6.9).[30] So far there is no consensus explanation for
physical origin of the dip feature. Dessau _et al._ have argued that the
dip might be an intrinsic feature of the superconducting state.[12]
Anderson[18] suggested that the dip is a consequence of band splitting
in the superconducting state that appears as a result of an interlayer
coupling interaction. Arnold _et al.[19]_ have considered that it might
be caused by a bosonic interaction with electrons near E_(F). Modeling
the PES results, they obtained a strong peak at 10 meV in the Eliashberg
spectral function α²F. However, bosonic mechanisms in high-T_(c)
cuprates that could give rise to such behavior in α²F have not been
verified.[19] Littlewood and Varma[20] have shown that in the
marginal-Fermi liquid model a two-peak spectral structure might appear
at the superconducting transition, with one sharp peak between Δ and 3Δ,
and a second broad peak appearing at higher energies with an onset at
3Δ. Coffey and Coffey[21] argued that the dip feature observed in the
tunneling and photoemission data is an effect resulting from
quasiparticle decay in the two-dimensional superconductors. They argued
that the energy where the dip occurs in the tunneling conductance
spectra (about three times the gap) tends to support a d-wave, rather
than isotropic s-wave, pairing order parameter. Liu and Klemm[22]
suggested that interband pairing, with hopping energies comparable to
the critical temperature, might induce two peaks (separated by a diplike
feature) in the electronic spectrum. The energy positions and strengths
of these peaks appear to be strongly dependent on the model
parameters.[22] The present photoemission observation of the dip
structure at ∼72 meV in Bi-2223, with T_(c)= 104 K shifted by ∼7 meV
from the dip in Bi-2212 (T_(c)= 85 K) provides additional information to
assist in the development of a satisfactory quantitative theory of the
high-T_(c) cuprates.

To summarize, we have successfully used high-resolution photoemission
spectroscopy to measure electronic structure in the superconducting
state of Bi-2223. Using highly textured (c-axis aligned) polycrystalline
samples, measurements were effectively momentum integrated. A
superconducting gap was observed; the gap appears to display a
nonuniform structure in the Brillouin zone. A maximum gap value of ∼29
meV was estimated (about 7 meV larger than Bi-2212). The resulting
reduced gap (2Δ/kT_(c)∼ 6.5) is larger than the reduced gap for Bi-2212
(2Δ/kT_(c)∼ 6.1). A spectral weight loss (dip) feature is observed at 72
meV in the superconducting state, also shifted by ∼7 meV from a
corresponding feature in Bi-2212.

One of us (C.G.) acknowledges support by the National Science
Foundation, Science and Technology Center for Superconductivity, under
Contract No. DMR 91-20000. Work at Argonne National Laboratory is
supported by U.S. DOE under Contract No. W-31-109-ENG-38. The Wisconsin
Synchrotron Radiation Center is funded by the National Science
Foundation under Contract No. DMR 8601349.

## References

* [1] C. G. Olson _et al._, Science **245**, 731 (1989). * [2] J.-M.
Imer _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **62**, 336 (1989). * [3] Z.-X. Shen _et
al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **70,** 1553 (1993). * [4] H. Ding _et al._,
Phys. Rev. B **50,** 1333 (1994). * [5] The flat singularity band near
E_(F) was reported for a number of cuprate superconductors, including
YBa₂Cu₃O_(6.9) (Refs. [6, 7, 8]), YBa₂Cu₃O₈ (Ref. [8]), Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O₈
(Refs. [9] and [10]), and Bi₂Sr₂CuO₆ (Ref. [11]). * [6] J. G. Tobin _et
al._, Phys. Rev. B **45**, 5563 (1992). * [7] R. Liu _et al._, Phys.
Rev. B **46,** 11 056 (1992). * [8] K. Gofron _et al._, J. Phys. Chem.
Solids **54**, 1193 (1993). * [9] C. G. Olson _et al._, Phys. Rev. B
**42,** 381 (1990).

1400 * [10] D. S. Dessau _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **71,** 2781
(1993). * [11] E. R. Ratner _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **48,** 10 482
(1993). * [12] D. S. Dessau _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **66,** 2160
(1991); D. S. Dessau _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **45**, 5095 (1992). * [13]
Y. Hwu _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **67,** 2573 (1991). * [14] For a
review on d-wave superconductivity, see B. G. Levi, Phys. Today
**46**(5), 17 (1993), and references therein. * [15] S. Chakravarty, A.
Sudbo, P. W. Anderson, and S. Strong, Science **261,** 337 (1993). *
[16] A. A. Abrikosov, K. Gofron, and J. C. Campuzano, Physica C **217**
(1994). * [17] R. S. Markiewicz, Physica C **217**, 381 (1993). * [18]
P. W. Anderson, Phys. Rev. Lett. **67,** 660 (1991). * [19] G. B.
Arnold, F. M. Mueller, and J. C. Swihart, Phys. Rev. Lett. **67,** 2569
(1991). * [20] P. B. Littlewood and C. M. Varma, Phys. Rev. B **46**,
405 (1992). * [21] D. Coffey and L. Coffey, Phys. Rev. Lett. **70,**
1529 (1993). * [22] S. H. Liu and R. A. Klemm, Phys. Rev. B **48,** 10
650 (1993). * [23] S. E. Dorris _et al._, Physica C **212**, 66 (1993);
D. Y. Kaufman _et al._, Appl. Superconduct. **1,** 81 (1993). * [24] C.
G. Olson _et al._, Solid State Commun. **76,** 411 (1990). * [25] H. M.
Meyer III _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **38**, 7144 (1988). * [26] Z.-X. Shen
_et al._, Phys. Rev. B **44,** 12 998 (1991). * [27] Z.-X. Shen _et
al._, Phys. Rev. B **38**, 8414 (1987); A. J. Arko _et al._,
_ibid._**40**, 2268 (1989); R. S. List _et al._, Physica C **159**, 439
(1989). * [28] A. D. Caplin _et al._, Physica C **209**, 167 (1993). *
[29] J. F. Zasadzinski _et al._, J. Phys. Chem. Solids **53**, 1635
(1992). * [30] T. Hasegawa _et al._, J. Phys. Chem. Solids **53**, 1643
(1992).
