# Pressure-induced superconductivity in parent CaFeAsF single crystals

Bo Gao, Yonghui Ma, Gang Mu, Hong Xiao

hong.xiao@hpstar.ac.cn Center for High Pressure Science and Technology
Advanced Research, Beijing 100094, China State Key Laboratory of
Functional Materials for Informatics, Shanghai Institute of Microsystem
and Information Technology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shanghai
200050, China

CAS Center for Excellence in Superconducting Electronics, Shanghai
200050, China

###### Abstract

Fluoroarsenide CaFeAsF is a parent compound of the 1111 type of
iron-based superconductors. It is similar to the parent LaFeAsO, but it
is oxygen-free. To date, studies of pressure-induced effects have only
focused on pure and doped polycrystalline CaFeAsF samples. Here, we
carried out high-pressure electrical resistivity and Hall coefficient
measurements up to 48.2 GPa on single crystals of CaFeAsF. The
structural transition temperature T_(st) decreased monotonically upon
increasing the pressure, and reached ∼60 K at 9.6 GPa. Superconductivity
emerged suddenly at 8.6 GPa with the T_(c, onset) ∼ 25.7 K, which
decreased monotonically with increasing pressure to 5.7 K under 48.2
GPa. Moreover, just after the appearance of superconductivity, the Hall
coefficient at 40 K started to decrease with increasing pressure, while
keeping its sign negative persisting up to 48.2 GPa.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.97.174505

## I Introduction

Until now, high-temperature superconductivity (HTSC) has been achieved
in two families: the copper-based oxides (cuprates) and iron-based
superconducting materials (FeSCs). Superconductivity (SC) emerges in
cuprates and FeSCs through the suppression of the antiferromagnetic
(AFM) ordering in their parent materials, which are in a Mott insulating
state and a metallic spin-density-wave state, respectively [1,2].
Compared with cuprates, superconductivity in FeSCs can be induced not
only by chemical dopants but also by external pressure [3, 4, 5].
High-pressure experiments are a powerful tool to investigate the phase
diagrams of FeSCs and the mechanism of HTSC.

Pressure as one of the fundamental state parameters can be used to tune
the lattice constants and electronic structure efficiently, which thus
alter the structural and magnetic ordering. Many high-pressure
investigations have been performed on FeSCs, particularly on the
122-type compounds AEFe₂As₂ (AE = Ca, Sr, and Ba) [6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11,
12, 13, 14]. Recently, it was found that uniaxial stress seems to
strongly suppress the structural phase transition from tetragonal (_T_)
to orthorhombic (_O_), reduce AFM ordering, and favor the appearance of
SC in the T phase in the 122 compounds [7, 8, 9, 10, 11]. This clearly
indicates that the difference in the hydrostaticity caused by using
different pressure media in different pressure cells leads to scattered
and confusing results in these early studies. Although the mechanism
behind the extreme sensitivity of their properties to uniaxial stress
and the origin of filamentary superconductivity are still unclear [7,
10], the most intriguing feature of the phase diagram of 122 compounds
is that bulk SC competes with the AFM phase [8, 9], which is different
to that of chemical substitution showing a coexistence of AFM and SC
phases [3]. The observed overlap of the SC and AFM phase in the
lower-pressure range can be attributed to the coexistence of the O phase
and a small amount of the T phase, induced by the inhomogeneity of
pressure [8]. For the 1111 family, polycrystalline samples of LaFeAsO
and CaFeAsF parents also show SC under pressure as reported in a few
works [12, 13, 14]. The superconducting transition temperature T_(c) of
LaFeAsO shows a dome-shaped pressure dependency [12]. In contrast, the
T_(c) of CaFeAsF monotonically decreases upon an increase in pressure
after the appearance of SC [13, 14]. However, since 1111 polycrystalline
samples are inhomogeneous in general, and the anomalies in their
electrical resistivity curves associated with phase transitions become
broad and difficult to distinguish with accuracy at high pressure, the
actual phase diagram of the 1111 systems under pressure is presently
under debate. More reliable results can be obtained in 1111 single
crystals. A recent high-pressure experiment on single-crystal LaFeAsO
grown using a NaAs flux shows no bulk superconductivity up to 37 GPa
[15, 16], which strongly contradicts polycrystalline sample
measurements, which show SC under pressure in a wide dome with a maximum
T_(c) of ∼22 K under 12 GPa [12]. This discrepancy may be induced by the
difference in the samples grown in their respective synthesis
conditions.

Recently, high-quality and reliable single crystals of the undoped
parent CaFeAsF were achieved [17, 18]. CaFeAsF is another oxygen-free
1111-type parent compound of FeSC, and exhibits high T_(c) SC induced by
3d transition metals [19, 20] and rare-earth elements doping [21], and
also applied pressure [13, 14]. Furthermore, it is interesting to note
that CaFeAsF undergoes a pressure-induced structural phase transition
from an orthorhombic (_O_) to lower symmetry monoclinic (_M_) structure
at low temperature [22], unlike the transition to a high-symmetry phase
(_O_-_T_) in both the 122 systems [23, 24] and LaFeAsO [25] under high
pressure. Thus, the high-pressure studies on CaFeAsF would provide an
important and deeper insight into the correlation between structural
modifications and SC under pressure in FeSCs.

In this paper, we report the results of high-pressure electrical
resistivity measurements on single crystals of CaFeAsF under pressure up
to 48.2 GPa. Compared to polycrystalline samples, our single crystals
showed distinct resistive anomalies at the _T-O_ transition temperature
_T_str even to high pressures, providing an opportunity to precisely
characterize _T_str as a function of pressure. The suppression of _T_str
in CaFeAsF is more robust against pressure than the 122 compounds under
similar pressure conditions. Pressure-induced SC first emerges at around
8.6 GPa with a _T_c.onset   25.7 K, which decreases monotonically with
increasing pressure up to 48.2 GPa. We argue that the SC of CaFeAsF
under pressure could be ascribed to the occurrence of an M phase
structure.

## II Experimental details

High-quality single-crystal samples of CaFeAsF were grown using a
self-flux method with CaAs as the flux material [17]. Pressure was
applied at room temperature using a Be-Cu diamond anvil cell (DAC). Two
different pairs of diamond anvils with a culet size of 300 or 500 μm
were used in two separate runs to ensure reproducibility. Daphne oil
7373 was used as a pressure-transmitting medium. The BeCu gasket was
preindented to 10 GPa in a DAC, and then a hole of 270 μm (for a 300-μm
culet) or 460 μm (for a 500-μm culet) in diameter was drilled in the
center of the preindented area. The cubic boron nitride (cBN) powders
were added inside the indent, which were then pressed to 15 GPa (for a
500-μm culet) or 25 GPa (for a 300-μm culet) again, reliably insulating
the sample and electrodes against the BeCu metallic gasket. Finally a
hole of 200 μm (for a 500-μm culet) or 140 μm (for a 300-μm culet) in
diameter was drilled in the center of the cBN gasket again. Four
hand-cut platinum (Pt) thin wires were attached to the samples with
sliver epoxy. A CaFeAsF single crystal was cut into dimensions of about
100 × 100 × 20 or 75 × 75 × 20 μm for 500- and 300-μm culets,
respectively. The pressure was determined using the ruby fluorescence
shift at room temperature. The van der Pauw method was used to complete
high-pressure electrical resistivity and Hall coefficient measurements
on the CaFeAsF crystals, with the electrical current along the _ab_
plane and the magnetic field along the c axis. The Hall coefficient was
measured by sweeping the magnetic field from −9 to 9 T at 40 K.

## III Results and discussion

Figure 1 shows the temperature-dependent electrical resistivity ρ(T) of
a CaFeAsF single crystal under pressures up to 48.2 GPa, obtained with a
culet size of 300 μm in run 1. At ambient pressure, the ρ(T) of CaFeAsF
shows a remarkable drop at ∼118 K during cooling [18], which is much
sharper than the polycrystalline samples. This anomaly in the
resistivity corresponds to the _T-O_ structural transition, in
reasonable agreement with the previously reported powder synchrotron
x-ray measurements of a _T_str  ∼ 120 K [26, 27].

Figure 1: Temperature-dependent electrical resistivity ρ(T) of CaFeAsF
single crystal under pressures (run 1) up to 48.2 GPa. The vertical
arrows at the _T_str and _T_c.onset indicate the _T-O_ structural
transition temperature and the onset temperature of the superconducting
transition, respectively. The inset of (b) shows the expanded view of
ρ(T) near the structural transition and method of determining the value
of the _T_str at 8.6 GPa.

With increasing pressure, the anomaly at T_(str) shifts downwards to
lower temperature and remains clearly visible up to 9.6 GPa. So, T_(str)
is defined by the intersection of two extrapolated lines drawn through
the resistivity curve below and above the anomaly, as shown in the inset
of Fig. 1(b). T_(str), as marked by the arrows in Figs. 1(a) and 1(b),
decreases with a slope of dT_(str)/dP = −6.25 K/GPa and seems to
disappear above 9.6 GPa. Under similar pressure conditions, the collapse
of T-O transition of BaFe₂As₂ occurs around 3-4 GPa, using DAC and
Daphne oil 7373 or 7474 as pressure transmitting medium [7, 8]. It seems
that the suppression of the CaFeAsF T-O transition is more robust
against pressure than the 122 compounds. Meanwhile, at 8.6 and 9.6 GPa,
we observe a sizeable reduction of resistivity below ∼25.7 K that is
strongly suppressed by applying magnetic fields, suggesting a SC
transition. Upon further pressure increase, this resistivity drop
becomes larger and steeper, and finally zero resistivity was detected
above 19.4 GPa, where a pressure-induced SC was indeed further
confirmed. An expanded view of the ρ(T) above 8.6 GPa at low
temperatures is shown in Figs. 2(a) and 2(b). Here we define the onset
temperature of the superconducting transition, T_(c, onset), by the
deviation from the linearity of normal-state resistivity ρ(T) above the
T_(c), as indicated by arrows in Figs. 1, 2(a), and 2(b). The
T_(c, onset) decreases monotonically against pressure, although SC
persists up to the highest studied pressure of 48.2 GPa. Above 27.7 GPa,
the SC transition tends to broaden again without the zero-resistivity
state. The absence of zero resistivity at lower pressure may be due to
the small superconducting fraction of the sample below the percolation
limit, as we discuss below. The disappearance of zero resistivity under
high pressure above 27.7 GPa could be related to the presence of
microcracks due to the serious nonhydrostatic conditions [28].
Interestingly, the ρ(T) shows an upturn behavior before the T_(str) or
T_(c, onset), which becomes less distinct upon increasing pressure and
finally disappears above 27.7 GPa. A similar phenomenon as a function of
the doping level is also observed in the Co- and Ni-doped CaFeAsF
compounds [20, 29]. The origin of this upturn behavior in the
resistivity trace is still unclear [30]. But our high-pressure results
can rule out the simple scenario of the scattering center increase
induced by the replacement of Fe with Co or Ni in FeAs superconducting
layers [13].

We repeated the high-pressure ρ(T) measurement on another CaFeAsF single
crystal with a culet size of 500 μm (run 2). Similar superconducting
behavior with almost identical T_(c) was observed under pressures up to
21.6 GPa. The ρ(T) curves for the magnetic field up to 9 T at 21.6 GPa
(run 2) are shown in Fig. 2(c). There is a monotonic suppression of the
superconducting transition, with modest broadening in the fields. Figure
2(d) shows that if the upper critical fields H_(c2)(T) of CaFeAsF under
18.5-27.7 GPa for the H//c axis were determined by adopting different
criteria 90

Figures 3(a) and 3(b) show the Hall resistivity ρ_(xy)(H) of the CaFeAsF
single crystals at 40 K under various pressures. The ρ_(xy)(H) at 3.9
and 5.7 GPa share similar features with

Figure 2: (a, b) Expanded view of ρ(T) of CaFeAsF above 5.7 GPa at low
temperature. The T_(c, onset) is indicated by arrows (run 1). Some
curves in (a) have been offset for clarity. (c) Temperature dependence
of the CaFeAsF resistance under different fields up to 9 T at 21.6 GPa
(run 2). (d) Temperature dependence of the CaFeAsF upper critical field
(H_(c2)) under pressure.

those at ambient pressure. A nonlinearity develops for ρ_(xy)(H) and the
slope changes sign from negative to positive with the increase of
magnetic field. Upon increasing pressure to above 8.6 GPa, all ρ_(xy)(H)
curves exhibit a negative slope in the whole investigated magnetic-field
range, but nonlinearity also appears. Figure 3(c) shows the pressure
dependence of the Hall coefficient, defined as the field derivative of
ρ_(xy)(H), R_(H) ≡ dρ_(xy)(H)/dH, in a zero-field limit. The sign of
R_(H) is clearly negative in the whole pressure range, suggesting
electrons are the dominant charge carriers. Notably at ambient pressure,
the R_(H) in our CaFeAsF single crystal is measured and shown to be
negative below $T_{\rm str}$, which confirms that the negative R_(H) is
an intrinsic property of CaFeAsF and resolves the discrepancy in the
sign of R_(H) below the $T_{\rm str}$ in CaFeAsF polycrystalline samples
where both negative and positive R_(H) were previously reported [21,29].
It is also the same as the other oxygen-derivative 1111 and 122 parents,
showing the electron characteristics of its dominative carriers. As
shown in Fig. 3(c), the amplitude of R_(H) increases initially with
pressure, but once the pressure is increased above a critical value
P₁ = 8.6 GPa where SC starts to appear it starts to decrease, producing
a peak-shaped dependence of R_(H) with pressure. Such a significant
change in the pressure dependence of R_(H) reflects a pronounced change
in the band structure of CaFeAsF under pressure, which might be
explained by the appearance of the O-M structural transition as we
discuss below. The emergence of superconductivity and the change of the
R_(H)-pressure dependence at the same pressure indicate a close
connection between them. In addition, in the SC phase, both the R_(H)
and T_(c) decrease against pressure, showing similar pressure dependence
behavior.

In Fig. 4 we have constructed a phase diagram for CaFeAsF under
pressures. It is shown that $T_{\rm str}$ decreases linearly with
increasing pressures, reaching ∼60 K at 9.6 GPa. Pressure-induced SC
starts to appear under P₁ ∼ 8.6 GPa at 25.7 K, and the $T_{c,\rm onset}$
decreases monotonically with increasing pressure. As shown in the inset
of Fig. 4, the pressure dependence of the $T_{c,\rm onset}$ also
exhibits a kink around a critical pressure of P₂ ∼ 23.0 GPa. The
$T_{c,\rm onset}$ varies linearly on either side of P₂, but with
different slopes. Note that this pressure P₂ is near the position where
the upturn behavior in resistivity disappears before the
$T_{c,\rm onset}$. Okada _et al._ used two different cells and pressure
transmitting media, a cubic anvil cell with Daphne 7474 liquid and a DAC
with NaCl powder, respectively [13]. They found the $T_{c,\rm onset}$ of
29 K appears under similar pressures of 4-5 GPa, which is consistent
with that obtained in a DAC with steatite by Freitas _et al._[14]. The
observed P₁ and $T_{c,\rm onset}$ in our paper are slightly higher and
lower than those obtained in polycrystalline samples by Okada _et
al._[13] and Freitas _et al._[14], respectively.

On the other hand, we note that the resistivity drop becomes larger upon
increasing pressure from 8.6 to 15.6 GPa. The pressure interval is too
large to be explained simply by the sample pressure gradients within the
Daphne 7373 liquid inside the DAC. And, it should be mentioned that this
feature is accompanied by the decrease of the onset T_(c) during this
pressure regime. One of the most possible explanations for these above
features is that two phases coexist and the percentage of SC phases in
the crystals continuously increases with pressure. Mishra _et al._
reported that CaFeAsF undergoes an O-M phase transition at 13.7 GPa, and
this new M phase remains stable up to 40 GPa at 40 K [22]. Consequently,
we speculate that the M phase is superconducting in CaFeAsF. The
inconsistency

Figure 4: The pressure-temperature diagram of CaFeAsF obtained by
electrical resistivity measurements. The onset of T_(c),
$T_{c,\rm onset}$, is defined by the deviation from the linearity of
normal-state resistivity ρ(T) above T_(c), and $T_{c,\rm cusp}$ is
defined by temperature at which ρ becomes zero. The inset shows the
$T_{c,\rm onset}$ dependence under pressure.

Figure 3: (a, b) Field dependence of Hall resistivity ρ_(xy)(H) of the
CaFeAsF single crystal at 40 K at pressures up to 48.2 GPa. (c) Pressure
dependence of the Hall coefficient R_(H) of CaFeAsF at 40 K.

between the _O_-_M_ transition pressure point reported by Mishra _et
al._ and P1 for SC appearance, as well as the change of the transition
to structural phase mixtures obtained in our case, may be due to the
different thermodynamic history (pressure and temperature). In our case,
high-pressure _R_(_T_) measurements were performed upon cooling from
room temperature at fixed values of pressures, with a liquid pressure
transmitting medium Daphne oil 7373, which solidifies above 2.2 GPa at
room temperature. Mishra _et al._ used helium as a pressure medium to
provide the best hydrostatic conditions; the sample was first cooled
from 300 to 100 K below 2 GPa, cooled to 40 K below 5.8 GPa, and then
pressurized to 40 GPa at a fixed temperature of 40 K. The difference in
the compression conditions of the samples may cause different
phase-transition behaviors, which has already been observed in the 122
systems under pressure [23]. Moreover, the less hydrostatic pressure
gradient in our case might considerably suppress the _O_-_M_ phase
transition pressure lower than 13.7 GPa and also cause the coexistence
of these two phases at low temperature in CaFeAsF. Further, the SC of
CaFeAsF is quite robust under high pressure up to 48.2 GPa. In contrast,
in the 122 systems, SC occurs in a much narrower pressure range in the T
phase. In this experiment, unfortunately, the exact pressure range for
the coexistence of O and M phases is difficult to identify.

## IV Conclusions

We measured the electrical resistivity and Hall coefficient of
single-crystalline samples of CaFeAsF under applied pressure up to 48.2
GPa to determine the phase diagram. We found that the _T_-_O_ structural
transition temperature is suppressed upon increasing pressure.
Superconductivity starts to appear around 8.6 GPa, and the T,onset
decreases monotonically with increasing pressure, reaching 5.7 K at 48.2
GPa. Moreover, electronlike charge carriers are dominant during the
whole pressure range. After the appearance of the SC phase, the Hall
coefficient at 40 K decreases against pressure, indicating an
enhancement in the charge carriers. By comparing our results with
previous x-ray-diffraction measurements under pressure [22], we argued
that SC can coexist with the low-temperature monoclinic phase. The
overlap of the _T_-_O_ transition and SC phase might be caused by the
nonhydrostaticity of the pressure or uniaxial stress.

###### Acknowledgements.

The work is supported by National Science Associated Funding (No.
U153042), the "Strategic Priority Program (B)" of the Chinese Academy of
Sciences (No. XDB04040300), and the Youth Innovation Promotion
Association of the Chinese Academy of Sciences (No. 2015187).

## References

* [1] A. S. Sefat, Rep. Prog. Phys. **74**, 124502 (2011). * [2] X. H.
Chen, P. C. Dai, D. L. Feng, T. Xiang, and F. C. Zhang, Natl. Sci. Rev.
**1**, 371 (2014). * [3] G. R. Stewart, Rev. Mod. Phys. **83**, 1589
(2011). * [4] J. Paglione and R. L. Greene, Nat. Phys. **6**, 645
(2010). * [5] M. S. Torikachvili, S. L. Bud’ko, N. Ni, and P. C.
Canfield, Phys. Rev. Lett. **101**, 057006 (2008). * [6] S. Medvedev, T.
M. McQueen, I. A. Troyan, T. Palasyuk, M. I. Eremets, R. J. Cava, S.
Naghavi, F. Casper, V. Ksenofontov, G. Wortmann, and C. Felser, Nat.
Mater. **8**, 630 (2009). * [7] W. J. Duncan, O. P. Welzel, C. Harrison,
X. F. Wang, X. H. Chen, F. M. Grosche, and P. G. Niklowitz, J. Phys.:
Condens. Matter **22**, 052201 (2010). * [8] T. Yamazaki, N. Takeshita,
R. Kobayashi, H. Fukazawa, Y. Kohori, K. Kihou, C.-H. Lee, H. Kito, A.
Iyo, and H. Eisaki, Phys. Rev. B **81**, 224511 (2010). * [9] K.
Matsubayashi, N. Katayama, K. Ohgushi, A. Yamada, K. Munakata, T.
Matsumoto, and Y. Uwatoko, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **78**, 073706 (2009). *
[10] W. Yu, A. A. Aczel, T. J. Williams, S. L. Bud’ko, N. Ni, P. C.
Canfield, and G. M. Luke, Phys. Rev. B **79**, 020511(R) (2009). * [11]
K. Prokes, A. Kreyssig, B. Ouladdiaf, D. K. Pratt, N. Ni, S. L. Bud’ko,
P. C. Canfield, R. J. McQueeney, D. N. Argyriou, and A. I. Goldman,
Phys. Rev. B **81**, 180506(R) (2010). * [12] H. Okada, K. Igawa, H.
Takahashi, Y. Kamihara, M. Hirano, H. Hosono, K. Matsubayashi, and Y.
Uwatoko, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **77**, 113712 (2008). * [13] H. Okada, H.
Takahashi, S. Matsuishi, M. Hirano, H. Hosono, K. Matsubayashi, Y.
Uwatoko, and H. Takahashi, Phys. Rev. B **81**, 054507 (2010). * [14] D.
C. Freitas, G. Garbarino, R. Weht, A. Sow, X. Zhu, F. Han, P. Cheng, J.
Ju, H. H. Wen, and M. Nunez-Regueiro, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter **26**,
155702 (2014). * [15] A. Jesche, F. Nitsche, S. Probst, T. Doert, P.
Muller, and M. Ruck, Phys. Rev. B **86**, 134511 (2012). * [16] C. A.
McElroy, J. J. Hamlin, B. D. White, S. T. Weir, Y. K. Vohra, and M. B.
Maple, Phys. Rev. B **90**, 125134 (2014). * [17] Y. Ma, H. Zhang, B.
Gao, K. Hu, Q. Ji, G. Mu, F. Huang, and X. Xie, Supercond. Sci. Technol.
**28**, 085008 (2015). * [18] T. Terashima, H. T. Hirose, D. Graf, Y.
Ma, G. Mu, T. Hu, K. Suzuki, S. Uji, and H. Ikeda, Phys. Rev. X **8**,
011014 (2018). * [19] S. Matsuishi, Y. Inoue, T. Nomura, H. Yanagi, M.
Hirano, and H. Hosono, J. Am. Chem. Soc. **130**, 14428 (2008). * [20]
S. Matsuishi, Y. Inoue, T. Nomura, Y. Kamihara, M. Hirano, and H.
Hosono, New J. Phys. **11**, 025012 (2009). * [21] P. Cheng, B. Shen, G.
Mu, X. Zhu, F. Han, B. Zeng, and H.-H. Wen, Europhys. Lett. **85**,
67003 (2009). * [22] S. K. Mishra, R. Mittal, S. L. Chaplot, S. V.
Ovsyannikov, D. M. Trots, L. Dubrovinsky, Y. Su, Th. Brueckel, S.
Matsuishi, H. Hosono, and G. Garbarino, Phys. Rev. B **84**, 224513
(2011). * [23] R. Mittal, S. K. Mishra, S. L. Chaplot, S. V.
Ovsyannikov, E. Greenberg, D. M. Trots, L. Dubrovinsky, Y. Su, Th.
Brueckel, S. Matsuishi, H. Hosono, and G. Garbarino, Phys. Rev. B
**83**, 054503 (2011). * [24] A. I. Goldman, A. Kreyssig, K. Prokes, D.
K. Pratt, D. N. Argyriou, J. W. Lynn, S. Nandi, S. A. J. Kimber, Y.
Chen, Y. B. Lee, G. Samolyuk, J. B. Leao, S. J. Poulton, S. L. Bud’ko,
N. Ni, P. C. Canfield, B. N. Harmon, and R. J. McQueeney, Phys. Rev. B
**79**, 024513 (2009). * [25] R. S. Kumar, J. J. Hamlin, M. B. Maple, Y.
Zhang, C. Chen, J. Baker, A. L. Cornelius, Y. Zhao, Y. Xiao, S.
Sinogeikin, and P. Chow, Appl. Phys. Lett. **105**, 251902 (2014). *
[26] Y. Xiao, Y. Su, R. Mittal, T. Chatterji, T. Hansen, C. M. N. Kumar,
S. Matsuishi, H. Hosono, and Th. Brueckel, Phys. Rev. B **79**,
060504(R) (2009).

* [27] T. Nomura, Y. Inoue, S. Matsuishi, M. Hirano, J. E. Kim, K. Kato,
M. Takata, and H. Hosono, Supercond. Sci. Technol. **22**, 055016
(2009). * [28] E. Colombier, M. S. Torikachvili, N. Ni, A. Thaler, S. L.
Bud’ko, and P. C. Canfield, Supercond. Sci. Technol. **23**, 054003
(2010). * [29] M. Zhang, C. Zhang, Y. Yu, L. Zhang, Z. Qu, L. Ling, C.
Xi, S. Tan, and Y. Zhang, New J. Phys. **12**, 083050 (2010). * [30] D.
Berardan, L. Zhao, L. Pinsard-Gaudart, and N. Dragoe, Phys. Rev. B
**81**, 094506 (2010). * [31] K.-H. Muller, G. Fuchs, A. Handstein, K.
Nenkov, V. N. Narozhnyi, and D. Eckert, J. Alloys and Compd. **322**,
L10 (2001). * [32] X.-C. Pan, X. Chen, H. Liu, Y. Feng, Z. Wei, Y. Zhou,
Z. Chi, L. Pi, F. Yen, F. Song, X. Wan, Z. Yang, B. Wang, G. Wang, and
Y. Zhang, Nat. Commun. **6**, 7805 (2015).
