# Upper critical field and heat capacity in the reentrant
superconducting system (Lu1-_x_Er_x_)RuB2

R. N. Shelton

Ames Laboratory–U.S. Department of Energy and Department of Physics,
Iowa State University, Ames, Iowa 50011

H. E. Horng

Department of Physics, National Taiwan Normal University, Taipei 117,
Republic of China

2 August 1985

###### Abstract

Low-temperature heat capacity, upper-critical-field measurements, and ac
magnetic susceptibility are utilized to study the interaction between
superconductivity and magnetic order in the orthorhombic compounds
(Lu1-_x_Er_x_)RuB2. Reentrant superconductivity is observed in a
concentration range just below a critical value (_x_ex = 0.5), where the
superconducting and magnetic phase boundaries meet. For samples with
concentrations greater than _x_a, two magnetic transitions are observed,
opening the possibility of complex magnetic states. The strength of the
effective exchange field, _H_a, is derived from the
conduction-electron–rare-earth spin-exchange interaction.
Superconductivity is quenched and reentrance occurs when _H_a becomes
comparable to the Pauli paramagnetic limiting field. Heat-capacity data
for LuRuB2 yield a relatively high Debye temperature of 487 K and an
electronic specific-heat coefficient of 7.05 mJ/mol K2.

## I Introduction

Measurements of the ac magnetic susceptibility _X_ac and the electrical
resistance on primitive tetragonal ErRh4B4 (Ref. 1) and Chevrel-phase
HoMo8S8 (Refs. 2 and 3) reveal a normal-to-superconducting–state
transition at _T_c1 followed at lower temperatures by the onset of a
magnetic transition at _T_m, followed by a transition back to the normal
state at _T_c2. In these two strict ternary phases, the magnetic ions
completely occupy their own unique sublattice. This reentrant
superconductivity can also be induced by varying the transition metal or
magnetic ion composition to alloy superconducting and magnetically
ordered ternaries to form a pseudoternary solid solution such as
Ho(Rh1-_x_Ir_x_)4B4, where reentrant superconductivity occurs between x
= 0.08 and x = 0.22, with the Ho3+ ions still occupying a distinct
sublattice.[4, 5] In the system (Ho1-_x_Lu)Rh4B4, Ho3+ and Lu3+ ions are
distributed randomly on the same sublattice over the entire rare-earth
concentration range, and reentrant superconductivity occurs for
compositions between x = 0.08 and 0.72.[6] The magnetic rare-earth (RE)
ions are distributed in a periodic array throughout the lattice, and the
magnetic order is long range in nature.

Recently, new superconducting ternary borides _MT_B2 (_M_ = Sc,Y,Lu and
T = Ru,Os) with superconducting transition temperatures from 1.3 K for
ScOsB2 to 10.0 K for LuRuB2 have been reported with an orthorhombic
structure.[7, 8] The isostructural, magnetically ordered compounds with
M = Tb, Dy, Ho, Er, or Tm have magnetic transition temperatures between
2 and 46 K. The suitably high superconducting transition temperature of
10.0 K for LuRuB2 provides a good opportunity for a systematic study of
the questions of reentrant and coexistent superconductivity. One of the
isomorphic pseudoternary systems, (Tm1-_x_Lu)RuB2, has been reported
with reentrant superconductivity occurring between rare-earth
concentrations x = 0.52 and 0.68.[9] The absence of coexistence between
superconductivity and long-range magnetic order in this system suggested
a ferromagneticlike nature of the magnetic state.[9] Similar to the
1:4:4 composition ratio borides, boron pairs also appear in this
structure. With the lower transition-metal concentration, the
LuRuB2-type structure possesses some crystallographic features which are
not present in _MT_**4B4** structures, namely, (i) the absence of
transition-metal clusters, (ii) the relatively long distance between Ru
atoms (3.03 A), and (iii) the short (3.10 A) Lu–Lu intraplanar bonds.
This short RE-RE distance and the possibility for direct coupling
between rare-earth atoms motivated this investigation into the strength
of the pair breaking interaction in these materials. Additionally,
ErRuB2 was found in this work to exhibit two distinct magnetic ordering
temperatures, 10.0 and 5.3 K, rather than the previously reported single
transition 5.21 K.[7] This difference attracted our attention to the
relation between two transitions and the effect of the Er3+ ion in the
LuRuB2 structure; therefore, the pseudoternary system (Lu1-_x_Er_x_)RuB2
was studied in its entirety.

To further characterize these materials, resistivity data,
upper-critical-field determination, and heat-capacity measurements are
included in order to clearly define the electronic properties. Various
superconducting- and normal-state parameters are derived.

## II Experimental details

All samples were synthesized in an identical manner. The rare-earth
elements were arc-melted together to form a master ingot of LuEr as a
starting material for pseudoternaries (Lu1-_x_Er_x_)RuB2. After a
stoichiometric amount of boron was arc-melted into a ruthenium ingot,
the appropriate ratio of starting material (LuEr), pure rare-earth
element (either Lu or Er), and RuB₂ was fixed by arc-melting them into
one ingot. This final product was melted several times to promote
homogeneity. Finally, the samples were sealed in a Ta tube with an argon
atmosphere and annealed according to the schedule: two days at 1250
degC, from two to three weeks at 1000 degC, followed by a quench in
water to room temperature.

Powder x-ray data showed the annealed sample of ErRuB₂ had an extremely
small amount of unidentified ternary phase (approximately 5

## III Results and Discussion

### Crystallographic and electronic properties

The ac magnetic susceptibility versus temperature for three selected
samples is shown in Fig. 1. The sample with rare-earth concentration x =
0 shows a simple superconducting transition, while the sample with x =
0.47 exhibits the reentrant behavior. For the susceptibility data, we
define the critical temperature, _Tc_ or _Tc_1, as the midpoint of the
transition into the superconducting state, while _Tc_2 is the
temperature at which the superconducting state is completely destroyed.
Two peaks due to magnetic order appear at 10.0 and 5.3 K and are defined
as _Tm_1 and _Tm_2, respectively, for ErRuB₂.

The low-temperature phase diagram for the pseudoternary system is
completed by a magnetic-susceptibility measurements and represented in
Fig. 2. This critical temperature versus rare-earth concentration plot
shows the sample LuRuB₂ with _Tc_ 9.9 K having the highest
superconducting transition temperature for any material with an
orthorhombic structure. With increasing erbium concentration, the
depression of _Tc_ is _dT__e_/_dx_ = -0.11 K/at.

The initial depression _dT__e_/_dn_ near LuRuB₂ caused by the magnetic
Er³⁺ ions of atomic concentration n can be used to estimate the
exchange-coupling constant _N_(E_(F))G_2 from the Abrikosov-Gorkov
expression [14]

(dT_(e)/dn)_(n → 0) = −π²N(E_(F))Γ²(g_(J − 1))²J(J + 1)/2k_(B)

, where _N_(E_(F)) is the density of states at the Fermi energy, G is
the exchange-coupling parameter between the conduction electrons and Er⁺
local moments, _gJ_ is the Lande g factor for the total angular momentum
J of the Er³⁺ ions and forms the de Gennes factor (_gJ_ - 1)²J(J + 1),
and _kB_ is the Boltzmann constant.

Figure 2: Low-temperature phase diagram for the system
(Lu_(1 − x)Er_(x))RuB₂. Superconducting (_Tc_1), magnetic (_Tm_), and
reentrant (_Tc_2) temperatures are noted. Error bars on _Tc_1 represent
10−90

Using 4(dT_(e)/dx)_(x → 0)=(dT_(e)/dn)_(n → 0)g_(J)=1.20 for the Er³⁺
ion and our experimental value of (dT_(e)/dx)_(x → 0)=−0.11 K/at.

The smooth linear behavior of the lattice parameters and unit-cell
volume is shown in Fig. 3. This regular dependence of crystallographic
parameters on rare-earth concentration is similar to behavior reported
for other pseudoternary superconducting-magnetic systems.[15, 16] The
distinct and abrupt changes from simple superconductivity to reentrant
superconductivity to long-range magnetic order are not reflected in
these crystallographic quantities.

The resistivity as a function of temperature for four samples in this
system is presented in Fig. 4. Note that the compounds with higher T_(e)
exhibit a more pronounced negative curvature in the resistivity. This
negative curvature has been observed in high-T_(e)A15 compounds.[17] One
common test for the purity of a metal is that it has a

Figure 4: Electrical resistivity normalized to the value at room
temperature as a function of temperature for four compounds in the
system $({\rm Lu}_{1-x}{\rm Er}_{x}){\rm Ru}{\rm B}_{2}$.

Figure 3: Lattice parameters and unit-cell volume for compounds in the
orthorhombic series $({\rm Lu}_{1-x}{\rm Er}_{x}){\rm Ru}{\rm B}_{2}$.

low residual resistivity or equivalently a high residual resistance
ratio (RRR). On close inspection of these four relative resistivity
curves, one notes that the lowest RRR occurs for the x = 0.45 sample.
This indicates the increased scattering of conduction electrons due to
the disorder on the rare-earth sublattice sites. RRR values for our
samples vary from roughly 6 to 14 over the concentration range x = 0.0
to x = 0.45. The small bump in relative resistance for the LuRuB2 sample
at  130 K is probably caused by an error in measurement and was not
reproducible. Examining the resistivity data for the magnetically
ordered sample ErRuB2, one observes that the curvature disappears in
this sample. A drop in resistance begins at _T_m1 = 10 K, indicative of
the decrease in the spin-disorder scattering occurring below the first
magnetic ordering temperature. Any feature in the resistivity at _T_m2
is difficult to distinguish due to the small value of r at this low
temperature.

For isotropic materials, the resistivity can be obtained from the
resistance by applying the van der Pauw method.10 Due to preferred
orientation of grains which occurred in the synthesis, we use the method
of Montgomery11 to correct the results, assuming grain-boundary
scattering is the primary factor causing the anisotropy. From a sample
in the shape of a rectangular parallelepiped, a value of 866 _m_I cm is
calculated as the room-temperature resistivity of LuRuB2. Therefore, the
residual resistivity _r_res for this sample is 55 _m_I cm. The residual
resistivities for five selected samples are listed in Table I.

The resistivity data for LuRuB2, along with a best-fit curve are shown
in Fig. 5. The data are fitted to an empirical formula used by Woodard
and Cody18 to model the resistance of Nb3Sn:

ρ(T) = ρ_(res) + ρ₁T + ρ₂e^(−T₀/T)

, where _r_res is the residual resistivity and r1, r2, and T0 are
fitting parameters. The second and third terms represent the high- and
low-temperature limits of the occupation number of a particular phonon
which assists in interband scattering according to Wilson’s model of
_s-d_ scattering.

Figure 5: Resistivity versus temperature for LuRuB2. The solid curve is
a best fit to the data as detailed in the text.

The coefficients obtained from this fitting are 1.31 μΩ cm/K for ρ₁, 651
μΩ cm for ρ₂, and 136 K for T₀. In the very-low-temperature range (T <
40 K), Eq. (2) with the calculated coefficients cannot satisfy the
experimental data; however, this fit is significantly superior to any
power-law fit over this wide temperature range.

Similar to Nb₃Sn, which exhibits a high superconducting transition
temperature and strong negative curvature in its resistivity, the
resistivity of LuRuB₂ is found to obey a T³ law for T < 40 K, indicative
of _s-d_ phonon scattering at low temperature. The fitting equation is
given for very-low-temperature data (T_(e) to ∼ 40 K) by

$$\rho(T) = \rho_{\rm res} + \rho_{3}T^{3}\ ,$$
(3)

with the fitting parameter ρ₃ = 1.01 × 10⁻³μΩ cm/K³ as shown in Fig. 6.
The inset of this figure represents the plot of ρ-$\rho_{\rm res}$
versus T³. These data reveal a linear behavior and confirm that Eq. (3)
is a good fit to the low-temperature resistivity of LuRuB₂. Similar
results are obtained for the (Lu_(0.65)Er_(0.35))RuB₂ superconducting
sample with a residual resistivity of 22.0 μΩ cm, ρ₁ = 0.26μΩ cm/K,
ρ₂ = 174μΩ cm, T₀ = 191 K, and ρ₃ = 1.57 ×10⁻⁴μΩ cm/K³. To summarize the
resistivity data for the (Lu_(1 − x)Er_(x))RuB₂ system, we find that the
Woodard-Cody model for 415 compounds adequately describes the
resistivity data for all superconducting samples in this system within a
standard deviation of 2

### The upper critical field H_(e2) and density of states N(E_(p))

The effects of an external magnetic field on the reentrant
superconductivity were studied for variety of compositions. Typical
traces using a temperature sweep in constant magnetic field are shown in
Fig. 7 for the (Lu_(0.60)Er_(0.40))RuB₂ sample. In this figure, the
superconducting state exists over a 4-K-wide region in zero field. By
increasing the external field, this superconducting region narrows as
T_(m) increases and T_(e1) decreases. This behavior of T_(m) in an
external field implies that the low-temperature reentrant magnetic order
is probably ferromagnetic. At a field between 2.6 and 4.3 kOe, the
sample ceases to show a complete superconducting transition. At even
higher fields, the resistive transition tends to broaden and the drop in
resistivity becomes smaller. These phenomena are also seen for the
(Lu_(0.55)Er_(0.45))RuB₂ sample in Fig. 8. This sample is closer to the
critical composition x_(σ) = 0.50. For this x = 0.45 sample one observes
a narrower superconducting region as well as a lower critical field
required to destroy superconductivity and to completely suppress the
drop in resistivity.

The data in Figs. 7 and 8 as well as analogous results for the
superconducting samples with x = 0.00, 0.15, and 0.35 in the
(Lu_(1 − x)Er_(x))RuB₂ system yield the relations between the upper
critical field H_(e2) and temperature shown in Fig. 9. The maximum
applied field is approximately 9 kOe in these measurements, and is not
sufficient to allow the observation of the complete curve for the higher

Figure 8: Resistivity as a function of temperature in various applied
magnetic fields for the reentrant superconductor
(Lu_(0.55)Er_(0.40))RuB₂. Lines are drawn as a guide to the eye.

Figure 6: Low-temperature resistivity of LuRuB₂. The inset illustrates
the T³ dependence of the resistivity in this temperature range. Solid
lines represent a best fit to the data as described in the text.

Figure 7: Resistivity as a function of temperature in various applied
magnetic fields for the reentrant superconductor
(Lu_(0.60)Er_(0.40))RuB₂. Lines are drawn as a guide to the eye.

samples, for example, the samples with x = 0.0 and 0.15. The dashed
curve for the x = 0.35 sample in the field above 9 kOe represents the
interpolation of data into this intermediate-temperature regime. Note
that the reentrant behavior is evident for samples with higher Er3+
concentration. These measurements are consistent with data obtained from
magnetic-susceptibility measurements. From this experiment, one obtains
the initial slope of the upper critical field H_(ϵ2),
(dH_(ϵ2)/dT)∣_(T_(e)), as a function of Er concentration. The linear
relationship between (dH_(ϵ2)/dT)∣_(T_(e)) and x is shown in Fig. 10.

From the data obtained from upper-critical-field measurements, the
electron-phonon-enhanced density of states N^(•)(E_(F)) can be
determined by measuring (dH_(ϵ2)/dT)∣_(T_(e)) and the residual
resistivity. The most reliable estimate for N^(•)(E_(F)) is obtained in
the "dirty limit" (_l_ < x0), where l is the electronic mean free path
and x0 is the BCS coherence length. The BCS relationship in the dirty
limit is given by [19]

$$-\left\lfloor\frac{dH_{\epsilon 2}}{dT}\right\rfloor_{T_{e}} = 4.48 \times 10^{4}\gamma\rho_{\rm res}\ ,$$
(4)

where (dH_(ϵ2)/dT)_(T_(e)) is in Oe/K, the normal-state electronic
specific-heat coefficient g is in $\rm{erg\,cm}^{-3}K^{-2}$, and _r_es
is in $\rm{\Omega\,cm}$. Measurements of (dH_(ϵ2)/dT)∣_(T_(e)) and _r_es
yield an experimental determination of the quantity g. The enhanced
density of states at the Fermi energy is then obtained by using the
formula [19]

N^(•)(E_(F)) = (2π²k_(B)²/3)⁻¹γ = 7.97 × 10³⁰γ ,
(5)

where N^(•)(E_(F)) is in states/(cm3 erg spin-direction) and g is in
$\rm{erg/cm}^{3}K^{2}$.

For clarity, a summary of the experimental and calculated parameters for
the system $\left(\rm{Lu}_{1-x}\rm{Er}_{x}\rm{)RuB}_{2}$ is given in
Table 1. The transfer of units from cm-3 to mole is based on Z = 4 and
the unit-cell volumes ( 190 A3) for samples in this system. The
calculated values g = 8.67 mJ/mol K2 and N^(•)(E_(F))=0.46 states/(eV
atom spin-direction) for LuRuB2 are smaller than g = 25.8 mJ/mol K2 and
N^(•)(E_(F))=0.61 states/(eV atom spin-direction) for LuRuB4, [20] Our
superconducting transition temperature _T_e1 and reentrant temperature
_T_e2 are slightly higher as determined by resistivity measurements
compared to the ac magnetic-susceptibility data. We determine the bare
density of states at the Fermi energy, the electron-phonon coupling
constant l, and exchange coupling parameter G, with additional
information from specific-heat measurements.

### Low-temperature specific heat

The detailed heat capacity C versus temperature T of LuRuB2 between 0.6
and 26 K is shown in Fig. 11. Heat-capacity data were taken with
increasing temperature in this temperature range. The 4-g sample used
for this purpose has a normal-to-superconducting transition temperature
at 8.7 K determined from _X_ac data. This transition temperature is
lower than the _T_e = 9.9 K obtained for a small sample. A possible
explanation is that about 10

Figure 10: Initial slope of the upper critical field as a function of Er
concentration in the pseudoternary series
$\left(\rm{Lu}_{1-x}\rm{Er}_{x}\rm{)RuB}_{2}$.

Figure 9: Upper critical field versus temperature for five compounds in
the system $\left(\rm{Lu}_{1-x}\rm{Er}_{x}\rm{)RuB}_{2}$. Lines are
drawn as a guide to the eye.

Since LuRuB₂ cannot be characterized by a Debye-type specific heat of
the form C = γT + βT³ for temperatures above T_(c), an additional term
αT⁵ was used to fit the normal-state heat capacity; therefore, the
expression becomes C = γT + βT³ + αT⁵. In this modified Debye model, the
γT term is the electron contribution to the heat capacity, while βT³ is
the lattice contribution to the heat capacity, and the αT⁵ term accounts
for anharmonicity in the lattice. Using this expression for C, the
normal-state entropy S is given by
$S = \gamma T + \frac{1}{3}\beta T^{3} + \frac{1}{3}\alpha T^{5}$.
Plotting (C − S)/T³ versus T² above T_(c) yields a linear function with
an intercept of $\frac{1}{3}\beta$ and a slope of $\frac{1}{3}\alpha$.
Using values of β and a obtained by a least-squares fit to this
function, the normal-state heat capacity is fitted to the function
C = γT + βT³ + αT⁵ to obtain the additional fitting coefficient γ = 7.05
mJ/mol K2. The calculated curve provides an excellent description of the
data in the temperature range from T_(c) to 23 K as can be seen in Fig.
12.

In order to calculate the enhanced density of states N^(*)(E_(F)), a
convenient formula is expressed by

N^(*)(E_(F)) = 0.2121γ/N ,

where the units of N^(*)(E_(F)) are states/eV atom spin-direction), the
units of γ are mJ/mol K2, and N is the number of atoms per formula unit.
If the units of β are mJ/mol K4, then the Debye temperature Θ_(D) in
Kelvin may be calculated from

Θ_(D) = (1.946 × 10⁶N/β)^(1/3) .

From our experimental heat-capacity data and Eqs. (6) and (7), we obtain
N^(*)(E_(F)) = 0.37 states/(eV atom spin-direction) and Θ_(D) = 487 K.
The jump in heat capacity at T_(c) yields a value of ΔC/γT_(c) = 1.09
which is smaller than the BCS value21 of 1.43. The strength of the
electron-phonon interaction λ listed in Table 2 is derived from T_(c)
using McMillan’s expression22 and a typical transition-metal value of
0.1 for the Coulomb pseudopotential μ^(*) in the equation

$$\gamma = \frac{1.04 + \mu^{*}\ln(\Theta_{D}/1.45T_{c})}{(1 - 0.62\mu^{*})\ln(\Theta_{D}/1.45T_{c}) - 1.04}\ .$$

Finally, the bare density of states N_(b)(E_(F)) is given by

N^(*)(E_(F)) = N_(b)(E_(F))(1 + λ) ,

yielding a value of N_(b)(E_(F)) = 0.24 states/eV atom spin-direction)
for LuRuB₂. This compares a value of 0.35 states/(eV atom
spin-direction) derived for LuRh₄B₄ (T_(c) = 11.5 K) and YRh₄B₄
(T_(c) = 10.8 K) from band-structure calculations.23,24 Meanwhile, using
the N_(b)(E_(F)) value along with N_(b)(E_(F))Γ² = 2.88 × 10⁻⁴ (eV atom
states)/spin-direction, the estimated strength of the pair breaking
interaction Γ is derived as 3.50×10⁻² eV atom, which is larger than the
value 2.2×10⁻² eV atom for the (Lu_(1 − x)Ho_(x))Rh₄B₄ (Ref. 6) system.

The energy gap at T = 0, Δ(0), can be deduced from the heat-capacity
data C_(s) in the superconducting state. Taking C_(s) and C_(l) as the
electronic and lattice contributions to the specific heat in the
superconducting state, respectively, then $C_{\rm es} = C_{s} - C_{l}$.
In the modified Debye model described previously, the lattice part of
heat capacity C_(l) is in the form C_(l) = βT³ + αT⁵, while the
electronic part near the superconducting transition can be expressed as

$$C_{\rm es} = A_{1}\exp\left[ - (\Delta(0)/k_{B}T) \right]\ ,$$

where k_(B) is Boltzmann’s constant. A least-squares fit of

  ------------------ ----------------------- -----------
      Parameter               Units             Value
        T_(c)                   K                8.9
          ΔC                mJ/mol K             68
          γ                 mJ/mol K2           7.05
          β                 mJ/mol K4         6.75×10⁻²
          α                 mJ/mol K6         1.77×10⁻⁴
        Θ_(D)                   K                487
     N^(*)(E_(F))     states/(eV atom spin)     0.37
          λ                   0.59           
     N_(b)(E_(F))     states/(eV atom spin)     0.24
      ΔC/γT_(c)               1.09           
   2Δ(0)/k_(B)T_(c)                             3.02
          Γ                  eV atom          3.5×10⁻²
  ------------------ ----------------------- -----------

Table 2: Superconducting and normal-state properties of LuRuB₂ derived
from low-temperature heat-capacity data.

Figure 11: Low-temperature heat capacity versus temperature for
superconducting LuRuB₂. The inset displays C/T vs T².

$C_{\rm es}$ versus temperature T is shown in Fig. 13. The fitting
parameters are A1 = 592 mJ/mol K and _D_(0)/_k__B_ = 13.4 K in the
temperature range 4.5 <= T <= 7.9 K. The linearity of _C_es plotted on a
log scale versus 1/_T_ is shown in the inset of Fig. 13 and confirms the
exponential dependence of _C_es. Thus, the energy gap D(0) is found to
be 1.6 x 10-3 eV and yields the quantity 2D(0)/_k__B_T_e = 3.02 which is
smaller than the BCS value of 3.52. Table II provides a convenient
summary of these heat-capacity data.

## IV Discussion and Conclusion

For the pure ternary LuRuB₂ the low-temperature heat-capacity data are
described well by a modified Debye model with a relatively high Debye
temperature. The normalized jump at T_(e) and energy gap are both
slightly smaller than the BCS values. These findings are consistent with
a moderate electron-phonon coupling constant. In the pseudoternary
series (Lu1-xEr)RuB₂ the occurrence of reentrant superconductivity
induced by the onset of magnetic order as displayed in the concentration
range 0.35 <= x <= 0.50 provides an opportunity to study the question of
coexistence of superconductivity and long-range magnetic order.
Ferromagnetic order is suggested by resistivity measurements at low
temperature for reentrant samples under various magnetic fields.
Evidence of reentrant superconductivity is present in ac
magnetic-susceptibility measurements and upper-critical-field data. If
one neglects the second set of magnetic transitions, the low-temperature
phase diagram for the (Lu1-_x_Er)RuB₂ system exhibits behavior similar
to other reentrant systems.

The discovery of two sets of magnetic transitions for the Er-rich
compounds is different and interesting. These double transitions may
signal the presence of complex magnetic states in analogy with other
superconducting-magnetic ternary systems such as the R2Fe₃Si₅ (_R_
denotes a rare-earth element) compounds which have incommensurate
magnetic structures.[25] A determination of the magnetic structures of
ErRuB₂ by neutron-diffraction experiments would be revealing.

Our analysis of critical-field and resistivity data produces different
values of g and _N_(E_(F)) than the fit to our experimental
low-temperature heat-capacity measurements for LuRuB₂ (compare Tables I
and II). This 20

In ternary superconductors containing a regular sublattice of magnetic
rare-earth ions, the effective exchange field _H__ex may be derived from
the conduction-electron-rare-earth spin-exchange interaction term in the
Hamiltonian

$$\mathcal{K} = - \Gamma(g_{J} - 1)J\cdot s = H_{\rm ex}\cdot\mu_{\rm eff}\;,$$

where $H_{\rm ex} = \Gamma(g_{J} - 1)J/g\mu_{B}$, m_(f) = _g__m__g_ s is
the effective moment, and g is the gyromagnetic ratio. If _H__ex exceeds
H_(p), the Pauli paramagnetic limiting magnetic field H_(p) =
_D_(0)/(2_m__B_)1/2 = 18.4_T__e_ (kOe), a first-order transition from
the superconducting to the normal state would be expected. For the
(Lu1-_x_Er)RuB₂ system, these fields, due to the magnetic Er3+ ions, can
be estimated from our experimental data to be H_(x) = 480 kOe and H_(p)
<=180 kOe. In this pseudoternary system, the effective H_(x) should be
modified by multiplying by the fraction of Er3+ ions present when
reentrance is first observed. With x = 0.38, the result H_(x) = 180 kOe
= H_(p) gives an excellent explanation for the reentrant phenomena
starting from x = 0.4. We conclude that this exchange mechanism is
responsible for the destruction of superconductivity in these alloys.

## Acknowledgments

Ames Laboratory is operated for the U.S. Department of Energy by Iowa
State University under Contract No. W-7405-Eng-82. Research at Ames was
supported by the Director for Energy Research, Office of Basic Energy
Sciences, Grant No. WPAS-KC-02-02-02. Work at Taipei was supported by
the National Science Council, Republic of China.

Figure 13: Electronic heat capacity (_C_es) in the superconducting state
of LuRuB₂ as a function of temperature. The exponential dependence of
_C_es is evident in the inset where _C_es is graphed on a log scale
versus 1/_T_. Solid lines represent the best fit to the data as
described in the text.

* [11] H. R. Ott, W. A. Fertig, D. C. Johnston, M. B. Maple, and B. T.
Matthias, J. Low Temp. Phys. **33**, 159 (1978). * [12] M. Ishikawa and
O. Fischer, Solid State Commun. **23**, 37 (1977). * [13] L. D. Woolf,
M. Tovar, H. C. Hamaker, and M. B. Maple, Phys. Lett. **71A**, 137
(1979). * [14] H. C. Ku, F. Acker, and B. T. Matthias, Phys. Lett.
**76A**, 399 (1980). * [15] F. Acker and H. C. Ku, Phys. Rev. B **25**,
5692 (1982). * [16] M. B. Maple, H. C. Hamaker, D. C. Johnston, H. B.
Mackay, and L. D. Woolf, J. Less-Common Met. **62**, 251 (1978). * [17]
H. C. Ku and R. N. Shelton, Mater. Res. Bull. **15**, 1441 (1980). *
[18] R. N. Shelton, B. A. Karcher, D. R. Powell, R. A. Jacobson, and H.
C. Ku, Mater. Res. Bull. **15**, 1445 (1980). * [19] H. C. Ku and R. N.
Shelton, Solid State Commun. **40**, 237 (1981). * [20] L. J. van der
Pauw, Philips Res. Rep. **13**, 1 (1958). * [21] H. C. Montgomery, J.
Appl. Phys. **42**, 297 (1971). * [22] D. E. Moncton, D. B. McWhan, P.
H. Schmidt, G. Shirane, W. Thomlinson, M. B. Maple, H. B. Mackay, L. D.
Woolf, Z. Fisk, and D. C. Johnston, Phys. Rev. Lett. **45**, 2060
(1980). * [23] J. W. Lynn, G. Shirane, W. Thomlinson, and R. N. Shelton,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **46**, 368 (1981). * [24] A. A. Abrikosov and L. P.
Gor’kov, Zh. Eksp. Teor. Fiz. **39**, 1781 (1961) [Sov. Phys.–JETP
**12**, 1243 (1961)]. * [25] H. E. Horng and R. N. Shelton, in _Ternary
Superconductors_, edited by G. K. Shenoy, B. D. Dunlap, and F. Y. Fradin
(North-Holland, New York, 1981), p. 213. * [26] R. N. Shelton, H. E.
Horng, A. J. Bevolo, J. W. Richardson, R. A. Jacobson, S. D. Bader, and
H. C. Hamaker, Phys. Rev. B **27**, 6703 (1983). * [27] Z. Fisk and G.
W. Webb, Phys. Rev. Lett. **36**, 1084 (1976); H. Wiesmann, M. Gurvitch,
H. Lutz, A. Ghosh, B. Schwarz, M. Strongin, P. B. Allen, and J. W.
Halley, _ibid._ **38**, 782 (1977); P. B. Allen, J. C. K. Hui, W. E.
Pickett, C. M. Varma, and Z. Fisk, Solid State Commun. **18**, 1157
(1976). * [28] D. W. Woodard and G. D. Cody, Phys. Rev. **136**, A166
(1964). * [29] T. P. Orlando, E. J. McNiff, Jr., S. Foner, and M. R.
Beasley, Phys. Rev. B **19**, 4545 (1979). * [30] L. D. Woolf, Ph.D.
thesis, University of California, San Diego, 1980 (unpublished). * [31]
J. Bardeen, L. N. Cooper, and J. R. Schrieffer, Phys. Rev. **108**, 1175
(1957). * [32] W. L. McMillan, Phys. Rev. **167**, 167 (1968). * [33] T.
Jarlborg, A. J. Freeman, and T. J. Watson-Yang, Phys. Rev. Lett. **39**,
1032 (1977). * [34] A. J. Freeman and T. Jarlborg, J. Appl. Phys.
**50**, 1876 (1979). * [35] A. R. Moodenbaugh, D. E. Cox, and H. F.
Braun, Phys. Rev. B **25**, 4702 (1982); A. R. Moodenbaugh, D. E. Cox,
C. B. Vining, and C. U. Segre, _ibid._ **29**, 271 (1984).
