Additive quasiparticle and vortex Hall conductivities in
La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄ and untwinned YBa₂Cu₃O_(6.93)

J. M. Harris, N. P. Ong, and P. Matl

Joseph Henry Laboratories of Physics, Princeton University, Princeton,
New Jersey 08544

R. Gagnon and L. Taillefer

Department of Physics, McGill University, 3600 University Street,
Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3A 2T8

T. Kimura and K. Kitazawa

Department of Applied Chemistry, University of Tokyo, 7-3-1 Hongo,
Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 113, Japan

###### Abstract

The flux-flow Hall conductivity σ_(xy) in untwinned YBa₂Cu₃O_(6.93)
(YBCO) is determined from Hall and resistivity measurements with the
current applied along the a and the b axes. We show that sign reversal
results from competition between a positive quasiparticle current (∼ H)
and a negative vortex-motion term (∼ 1/H). The Hall drag coefficient in
YBCO is measured to be α(T) =  − 4.4 × 10⁻⁸(1 − T/T_(c)) N s/m²
(75<T  <93 K). In single-crystal La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄, a similar
decomposition into quasiparticle and vortex currents (both positive) is
possible even though σ_(xy) shows no sign reversal.

pacs: 9 05.10.Jm, 75.10.Jm, 75.10.Jm The behavior of the flux-flow Hall
effect in high-T_(c) superconductors is a challenging problem in the
rich phenomenology of vortex dynamics in type-II superconductors. Of
particular interest is the sign reversal observed in the Hall
resistivity ρ_(yx) of most of the cuprates.[1, 2] Many models have been
proposed to explain this anomaly.[3, 4, 5, 6] However, until recently,
the crucial contribution of quasiparticle excitations to the observed
current has not been appreciated.

Dorsey[5] and Kopnin, Ivlev, and Kalatsky[6] independently proposed that
the sign reversal could arise if the quasiparticle and vortex Hall
currents have opposite signs. Because of the additivity of the two
currents, the simplest way to express the quasiparticle contribution is
by the conductivity, viz.,

σ_(xy) = σ_(xy)^(n) + σ_(xy)^(f) ,
(1)

where σ_(xy) is the total conductivity and σ_(xy)^(n) (σ_(xy)^(f)) is
the Hall conductivity of the quasiparticles (vortices). Following a
suggestion by Geshkenbein and Larkin (GL),[7] Harris, Ong, and Yan
(HOY)[8] extracted the Hall conductivity of YBa₂Cu₃O_(6.93) (YBCO)
measured in oblique fields and found striking agreement with the scaling
relationship of GL. Further, HOY found that the vortex term σ_(xy)^(f)
is negative at all fields and tilt angles. The additivity in Eq. (1) has
also been tested by Samoilov, Ivanov, and Johansson[9] in
Tl₂Ba₂CaCu₂O_(8 + δ), and by Ginsberg and Manson[10] on untwinned YBCO
crystals. Harris _et al.[11]_ reported that, in high-purity 60-K YBCO
crystals, σ_(xy) is negative below 40 K at all fields H up to ∼ 24 T
with a field dependence that approaches ∼ 1/H at high fields. These
experiments show that the sign reversal is a direct consequence of
adding a positive term that increases with H to a negative term that
varies as −1/H. A different analysis, based on additivity of the Hall
angles, has been proposed by Kunchur _et al.[12]_

We report Hall measurements on two untwinned crystals of YBCO and a
crystal of La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄ (LSCO). In YBCO, the ratio of the
resistivities ρ_(a) and ρ_(b), measured with ${\bf J}\|{\bf a}$ and
${\bf J}\|{\bf b}$, respectively, varies strongly with H and T in the
mixed state. (${\bf J}$ is the current density; ${\bf H}\|{\bf c}$ in
all measurements.) To determine the Hall conductivity σ_(ab), it is
necessary to measure _both_ρ_(a) and ρ_(b). We selected two untwinned,
optimally doped YBa₂Cu₃O_(6.93) crystals (A and B) with closely similar
electrical properties (caption of Fig. 1). The Hall resistivity ρ_(ba)
(ρ_(ab)) and the resistivity ρ_(a) (ρ_(b)) were measured simultaneously
in crystal A (B). The four quantities allow the Hall conductivity
σ_(xy) = σ_(ab) to be calculated as ρ_(ba) /[ρ_(a)ρ_(b) − ρ_(ab)ρ_(ba)].
We also checked that the Onsager relation ρ_(ba) =  − ρ_(ab) is
accurately satisfied. Details of the crystal growth and detwinning are
given elsewhere.[13] The La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄ (x = 0.17) sample was cut
from a large crystal grown using the traveling-solvent-floating-zone
method. In LSCO, sign reversal in the Hall resistivity is absent,
indicating that σ_(xy)^(n) and σ_(xy)^(f) are both positive.

We first discuss the anisotropy ρ_(b)/ρ_(a) in YBCO. As reported by
Safar _et al._ and by Kwok _et al._,[14] the transition to the
dissipative state is abrupt in untwinned crystals. In our crystals, the
transition width is less than 0.2 K below 5 T but increases to ∼ 1 K
above 9 T (Fig. 1, inset). In Fig. 1 we compare the resistivities by
plotting the ratio ρ_(b)/ρ_(a) against T at selected fields. [To correct
for a slight difference in T_(c)’s (0.3 K), we form the ratio
ρ_(b)/ρ_(a) from resistivities measured at the same reduced temperature
t = (T_(c) − T)/T_(c) in the two crystals.] Starting at low
temperatures, the ratio ρ_(b)/ρ_(a) rises steeply, signaling the
transition to the dissipative state in sample B. When T increases above
T_(c), the curves converge to the normal-state
value[13](ρ_(b)^(N)/ρ_(a)^(N)) = 0.45, which is almost independent of
field. Because ρ_(b)/ρ_(a) is sensitive to both H and T, the
approximation σ_(ab) − ρ_(ba)/ρ_(a)² is unreliable except within a few
degrees of T_(c). Interestingly, in the mixed state, ρ_(b)/ρ_(a) rises
to values significantly higher than the normal-state value (before the
onset of pinning drives it to zero). The enhancement implies that the
anisotropy is weaker in the mixed state than in the normal state. This
implies that the chain conductance (which is responsible for the
anisotropy above T_(c)) becomes less important relative to the
conductance within the layers in the mixed state.

As in the resistivity, the onset of the Hall resistivity ρ_(yx) = ρ_(ba)
is much sharper than observed in heavily twinned crystals, especially at
temperatures above 84 K (Fig. 2, upper panel). In weak fields, ρ_(yx)
initially decreases to a minimum, then changes sign before increasing
linearly with H at high fields. This nonmonotonic behavior immediately
simplifies when we convert ρ_(yx) into the Hall conductivity (Fig. 2,
lower panel). In contrast to ρ_(yx), σ_(xy) is always monotonic in field
in YBCO.[8] The resistivities ρ_(xx) and ρ_(yx) decrease abruptly to
zero when the vortex lattice is pinned, but σ_(xy) does not. In weak
fields, σ_(xy) diverges in the negative direction while in high fields
σ_(xy) asymptotically approaches a straight line with positive slope in
H.

The viscous-drag (η) and Hall-drag (α) coefficients are defined by the
equation of motion ηv_(L) + αv_(L) × z = ϕ₀J × z (v_(L) is the line
velocity, ϕ₀ the flux quantum, and z = B/B). In terms of σ_(xy) and α,
the vortex conductivity elements are given by σ_(xx)^(f) = η/B ϕ₀ and
σ_(xy)^(f) = α/B ϕ₀. Vinokur _et al._[15] have argued, on general
grounds, that α should be independent of field, so that σ_(xy)^(f)
varies as 1/B. In weak fields the quasiparticle term σ_(xy)^(h) is
linear in B. Hence, we expect the total Hall conductivity σ_(xy) to
equal c₁B − c₃/B (with c₁ , c₃  > 0). However, we find systematic
deviation from this simple fit at low T and high fields.

An attractive explanation for the deviation is the scattering of
quasiparticles (qp) by the vortices (at T  >  70 K, d-wave or
anisotropic s-wave pairing implies a large qp population _outside_ the
core). Microwave experiments in zero field suggest that the
quasiparticle lifetime in YBCO increases sharply below T_(c).[16, 17]
This strong T dependence represents an inelastic scattering process that
is very likely electronic in origin. In the mixed state, vortices act as
"impurities" in the sea of quasiparticles. In addition to degrading the
qp lifetime (described by the transport cross section
$\sigma_{\rm tr}$), the vortices also cause asymmetric scattering
(described by the transverse cross-section $\sigma_{\rm r}$).[18] The
latter generates the qp Hall current. We may express the mean free path
(mfp) in a field $I_{\rm tot}$ by
$I_{\rm tot}^{-1}\!=\!t^{-1}\!=\!t_{\rm r}^{-1}$ where t is the mfp in
zero field and $l_{\rm r}^{-1}\!=\!\sigma_{\rm tr}|B|/\phi_{0}$.
Recalculating the quasiparticle current with $I_{\rm tot}$ in place of
l, we obtain for the total Hall conductivity[19]

$$\sigma_{xy}\!=\!c_{1}l^{2}H(1+l\sigma_{\rm tr}|B|/\phi_{0})^{-2}\!-\!c_{3}/H,$$
(2)

where
$c_{1}\!=\!Y(T)(e^{2}k_{F}/2\pi h)\,\sigma_{\rm r}\!\!\!/\phi_{0}$. The
function
$Y(T)\!=\!(1/\pi k_{F})ds_{\rm d}\!\!\!/\,d\epsilon\!\!\!/\,d\epsilon\!\!\!/\, \sigma_{0}\!\!\!/\,d\epsilon\!\!\!/\,\sigma_{\rm k}\!\!\!/  steep increase in (the zero field) \(l$
below T_(c) is in striking agreement with the surface resistance results
of Bonn _et al._[16] who inferred a qp conductivity that rises steeply
to a peak near 40 K. The strong suppression of the inelastic scattering
rate results in a qp lifetime enhancement that more than offsets the
decrease in Y(T), so that σ_(xy)^(n) increases.[19]

A different perspective on σ_(xy) (versus T in fixed field) is shown in
Fig. 3. The fan-out pattern illustrates the competition between the two
currents of opposite sign that diverge with decreasing T. In low fields,
the vortex Hall conductivity σ_(xy)^(f) dominates, so that σ_(xy) swings
to large negative values. With increasing fields, however, σ_(xy)^(n)
grows while |σ_(xy)^(f)| decreases. Thus, above 10 T, σ_(xy) increases
monotonically with decreasing T. Using Eq. (2), we have separated out
the two components at 14 T. With falling T, the quasiparticle σ_(xy)^(n)
(squares) rises because of the increase in l. [Since σ_(xy)^(n) rises
much faster than the T⁻³ normal-state behavior (broken line), it is
incorrect to assume that the latter holds within the mixed state.[12]
The vortex part σ_(xy)^(f) increases in magnitude linearly with the
reduced temperature t as σ_(xy)^(f) = −2.1×10⁷/B (Ωm)⁻¹ (open circles).
From this, we derive the temperature-dependent Hall-drag coefficient
α(T)= −4.4×10⁻⁸(1−T/T_(c)) Ns/m², (75<T<93 K). It is interesting to
compare α(T) with the Hall-drag coefficient α_(xy) expected in the
supereal regime where the vortex core moves (anti-)parallel with the
applied current J.[21] Setting v_(x)=J/n_(s)e, we obtain α_(x)= ±π_(x)ϕ₀
which has the value ±1.4×10⁻⁷(m^(*)/m₀) Ns/m². (n_(s) is the
superconducting electron density and m₀ the free mass; the in-plane
penetration length λ is taken to be 1500 A.) Extrapolated to T≪T_(c) ,
α(T) seems to imply a low-temperature value α(0) an order of magnitude
smaller than α_(x) (taking m^(*)/m₀∼2). However, we expect α(T) to
deviate strongly from linear-t dependence when the Hall angle diverges
below ∼ 50 K, as observed in 60-K YBCO.[11] [For comparison, in 60-K
YBCO, α∼−1.3×10⁻⁸ Ns/m² at 37 K, while α_(x)= −1.5×10⁻⁷(m^(*)/m₀)
Ns/m².]

Flux-Hall measurements on single-crystal La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄ (x = 0.17)
provide an interesting confirmation of Eq. (1) even though no
sign-reversal anomaly occurs. The Hall resistivity ρ_(yx) (Fig. 4, upper
panel) is positive (holelike) in fields up to 14 T and at temperatures
down to 16 K. In comparison with the data for YBCO, its onset with field
is much more gradual. When the resistivity is converted to the
conductivity tensor (Fig. 4, lower panel), we find that in high fields
σ_(xy) again approaches an asymptote that represents σ_(xy)^(n).
However, in contrast to YBCO, the vortex term σ_(xy)^(f) is positive. We
have confirmed that σ_(xy)^(f) is positive at all angles including the
orientation with HL c. Both σ_(xy)^(f) and σ_(xy)^(n) are clearly
visible down to T= 26 K, while at lower temperatures σ_(xy)^(f) becomes
dominant. The magnitude of σ_(xy)^(f) decreases with H just as in YBCO.

The data for the two cuprates, taken together, provide persuasive
evidence for the additivity of the quasiparticle and vortex Hall
currents, as expressed in Eq. (1). The simple

Figure 3: (Main panel) The total Hall conductivity σ_(xy) of untwinned
YBCO vs temperature at fixed field (solid lines). Using Eq. (2), we
separate out σ_(xy) at 14 T into σ_(xy)^(n) (squares) and σ_(xy)^(f)=
−c₃/H (at 14 T). By fitting a straight line, we may express σ_(xy)^(f)
as −(2.1×10⁷)/B (Ωm)⁻¹, which gives the value of α(T) discussed in the
text. Below T_(c), σ_(xy)^(n) increases much more rapidly than the T⁻³
behavior in the normal state (dashed line). The inset shows l (mfp in
zero field) and σ_(u) (transport cross section) obtained from the fit to
Eq. (2).

expedient of associating opposite signs to the two terms provides a
rather natural explanation of the sign-reversal anomaly of the in-plane
Hall response in YBCO. Similarly, the absence of sign reversal in LSCO
also fits naturally within this explanation. The conductivity curves in
Fig. 4 demonstrate clearly that σ_(xy)^(f) adds to a linearly increasing
σ_(xy)^(n), and that both are positive. These tests, together with
verification of the GL scaling relations in a tilted-field experiment
[8] and the low-temperature measurement showing that σ_(xy) −  − 1/H,
[11] bolster the case for additivity of the Hall currents in the
cuprates. Moreover, the high-field fits allow the determination of two
important quasiparticle quantities, l and $\sigma_{\rm tr}$. The factors
that fix the sign of σ_(xy)^(f) are not understood. Although a few
microscopic calculations have addressed this issue,[22] there is
considerable uncertainty about why σ_(xy)^(f) is negative while
σ_(xy)^(n) is positive in YBCO. This difficulty is compounded by our
observation that the two quantities are positive in LSCO.

J.M.H. and N.P.O. were supported by the U.S. Office of Naval Research
(N00014-90-J-1013), and the U.S. National Science Foundation (DMR
922-4077). R.G. and L.T. were supported by NSERC of Canada and FCAR of
Quebec. L.T. acknowledges support from the Canadian Institute for
Advanced Research and the A. P. Sloan Foundation. T.K. and K.K. were
funded by a grant in Priority-Areas from the Ministry of Education,
Science and Culture of Japan.

## References

* [1] M. Galffy and E. Zirngiebl, Solid State Commun. **68**, 929
(1988); Y. Iye, S. Nakamura, and T. Tamegai, Physica C **159**, 616
(1989). * [2] T. R. Chien, T. W. Jing, N. P. Ong, and Z. Z. Wang, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **66**, 3075 (1991); S. J. Hagen _et al._, Phys. Rev. B
**43**, 6246 (1991); J. P. Rice, N. Rigakis, D. M. Ginsberg, and J. M.
Michel, _ibid._**46**, 11 050 (1992); S. J. Hagen _et al._,
_ibid._**47**, 1064 (1993). * [3] J. M. Harris, N. P. Ong, and Y. F.
Yan, Phys. Rev. Lett. **71**, 1455 (1993). * [4] Z. D.Wang, J. Dong, and
C. S. Ting, Phys. Rev. Lett. **72**, 3875 (1994); R. A. Ferrell,
_ibid._**68**, 2524 (1992). * [5] A. T. Dorsey, Phys. Rev. B **46**,
8376 (1992); R. J. Troy and A. T. Dorsey, _ibid._**47**, 2715 (1993). *
[6] N. B. Kopnin, B. I. Ivlev, and V. A. Kalatsky, J. Low Temp. Phys.
**90**, 1 (1993). * [7] V. B. Geshkenbein and A. I. Larkin, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **73**, 609 (1994). * [8] J. M. Harris, N. P. Ong, and Y. F. Yan,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **73**, 610 (1994). * [9] A. V. Samoilov, Z. G. Ivanov,
and L.-G. Johansson, Phys. Rev. B **49**, 3667 (1994). * [10] D. M.
Ginsberg and J. T. Manson, Phys. Rev. B **51**, 515 (1995). * [11] J. M.
Harris, Y. F. Yan, O. K. C. Tsui, Y. Matsuda, and N. P. Ong, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **73**, 1711 (1994). * [12] M. N. Kunchur, D. K. Christen, C. E.
Klabunde, and J. M. Phillips, Phys. Rev. Lett. **72**, 2259 (1994). *
[13] R. Gagnon, C. Lupien, and L. Taillefer, Phys. Rev. B **50**, 3458
(1994). * [14] H. Safar, P. L. Gammel, D. A. Huse, and D. J. Bishop,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **69**, 824 (1992); W. K. Kwok, J. Fendrich, S.
Fleshler, U. Welp, J. Downey, and G. W. Crabtree, _ibid._**72**, 1092
(1994). * [15] V. M. Vinokur, V. B. Geshkenbein, M. V. Feigel’man, and
G. Blatter, Phys. Rev. Lett. **71**, 1242 (1993). * [16] D. A. Bonn, P.
Dosanjh, R. Liang, and W. N. Hardy, Phys. Rev. Lett. **68**, 2390
(1992); D. A. Bonn _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **47**, 11 314 (1993). * [17]
Martin C. Nuss, P. M. Mankiewich, M. L. O’Malley, E. H. Esterwick, and
Peter B. Littlewood, Phys. Rev. Lett. **66**, 3305 (1991). * [18] Robert
M. Cleary, Phys. Rev. **175**, 587 (1968). * [19] These calculations
will be reported elsewhere; N. P. Ong (unpublished). * [20] We have
tested also the empirical expression σ_(xy)(H)= p₁H + p₂ − c₃/H.
Although the fits are equally good, the T dependences of p₁ and p₂ are
difficult to interpret. * [21] N. B. Kopnin and V. E. Kravtsov, Pis’ma
Zh. Eksp. Teor. Fiz. **23**, 631 (1976) [JETP Lett. **23**, 578
(1976)]. * [22] H. Fukuyama, H. Ebisawa, and T. Tsuzuki, Prog. Theor.
Phys. **46**, 1028 (1971); M. V. Feigel’man, V. B. Geshkenbein, A. I.
Larkin, and V. M. Vinokur, Physica C **235-240**, 3127 (1994); N. B.
Kopnin (unpublished).
