# Reversible effect of hydrogen on superconductivity and weak
ferromagnetism

in Eu1.4Ce0.6_M_Sr2Cu2O10-_d_ (_M_ = Nb and Ru)

I. Felner and U. Asaf

Racah Institute of Physics, The Hebrew University, Jerusalem, 91904,
Israel

S. D. Goren and C. Korn

Department of Physics, Ben-Gurion University, Beer-Sheva 84105, Israel

21 April 1997; revised manuscript received 4 June 1997

###### Abstract

We have investigated the superconducting compounds
Eu1.4Ce0.6_M_Sr2Cu2O10-_d_ (_M_ = Nb and Ru) (_T_c = 22 and 32 K,
respectively), as well as these materials charged with hydrogen, by
several complementary experimental techniques. Eu1.4Ce0.6RuSr2Cu2O10-_d_
is magnetically ordered at _T_N = 122 K, thus _T_N > _T_c .
Superconductivity (SC) is confined to the CuO2 planes, and the magnetic
ordering is due to the Ru sublattice. Among many interesting features,
irreversibility phenomena at low magnetic fields and a magnetic spin
reorientation transition, which are observed, originate from
antisymmetric exchange coupling of the Dzyaloshinsky-Moria type. The
effect of hydrogen (0.35 at.

## Introduction

The interaction of hydrogen with high-_T_c materials has been studied by
many groups in the past and a large amount of data are available.1-4
There is general agreement that hydrogen reduces the number of charge
carriers in _p_-type high-_T_c samples, and that the materials become
semiconducting and magnetic at high hydrogen concentrations. We have
shown that in YBa2Cu2O7H7 , superconductivity (SC) is suppressed for y =
1.3 (Ref. [1]) and the Cu(2) sites become antiferromagnetically ordered
at _T_N = 420 K, in a way very similar to that caused by removal of
oxygen, e.g., YBa2Cu3O6. On the other hand, in YBa2Cu3Br4, (124) _T_c is
unaffected by hydrogen charging (up to y = 1.85), but the shielding
fraction is reduced sharply with an increasing in y.2 Hydrogen induces a
magnetic order in this system that leads to a phase separation:
superconducting and magnetic. Their relative amount depends on the
hydrogen concentration.

Much attention has been focused on a phase resembling the SC YBa2Cu3O7
(YBCO) materials having the composition R1.5Ce0.3_M_Sr2Cu2O10 (denoted
as _M_-2122, R = Sm, Eu, or Gd and M = Nb, Ru, or Ta).5-9 The tetragonal
(space group _I4/mmm_) _M_-2122 structure evolves from the YBCO
structure by inserting fluorite type R1.5Ce0.5O2 layers (instead of the
Y layer in YBCO), thus shifting alternate perovskite blocks by (_a_ +
_b_/2). The M ions reside in the Cu(1) site and only one distinct Cu
site [corresponding to Cu(2)] exists with fivefold pyramidal
coordination. The CuO2 layers are separated on one side by _M_O6, which
replaces the Cu-O chains, and on the other side by R1.5Ce0.5O2 layers.
The hole doping of the Cu-O planes, with resulting metallic behavior and
SC, can be achieved with appropriate variation of the _R_/Ce ratio. The
Nb-2122 are SC with _T_c   22 K, independent of R,6-8 and it was
recently shown that the Ru-2122 compounds5,10 are also SC with _T_c up
to 42 K. In addition, the latter system is magnetically ordered, with
_T_N up to 180 K and our Mossbauer spectroscopy studies on 57Fe-doped
samples indicate clearly that the weak-ferromagnetic (WFM) state is
confined to the Ru site.

The coexistence or mutual exclusion of SC and long-range magnetic order
is one of the fundamental problems of condensed matter physics and has
been studied experimentally and theoretically for almost four decades.
This field was strongly revived in the early 1980s by the discovery of
ternary intermetallic systems such as _R_Rh4B4, _R_Mo5B8,11 and more
recently by the discovery of _R_Ni2B2C,12 where transition-metal
elements responsible for SC and the magnetic rare-earth ions occupy
different regular sublattices. The relatively weak interaction between
the transition-metal d electrons and the localized _f shells,_ resulting
from complete separation in space, permits both phenomena to coexist,
and the trend is that for _all_ the intermetallic magnetic
superconductors, the magnetic ordering is well below the onset of SC
(_T_N < _T_c). The coexistence of bulk SC in the WFM state in the
ceramic Ru-2122 system indicates that this system belongs to the same
class of magnetic superconductors as do the intermetallics. However, in
contrast to the intermetallic systems, in the Ru-2122 system, the WFM
ordering is well above the SC state (_T_N /_T_c > 4).5

In attempting to understand the mechanism of SC and WFM in
Eu1.4Ce0.6_M_Sr2Cu2O10-_d_ (_M_ = Nb and Ru), an approach involving
reducing the number of charge carriers by hydrogen charging was
employed. Similar to other high-temperature superconducting (HTSC)
materials, we show that 0.35 at.

## Experimental Details

Ceramic samples with nominal composition Eu1,4Ce0,6MSr2Cu2O10 were
prepared by a solid state reaction technique. Prescribed amounts of
Eu2O3, CeO2, SrCO3, Ru, Nb2O5, and CuO were mixed and pressed into
pellets and preheated at 1000 degC for about 1 day in the presence of
flowing oxygen at atmospheric pressure. The products were cooled,
reground, and sintered at 1050 or 1120 degC (for M = Ru or Nb) for 72 h
in a slightly pressurized oxygen (about 1.4 atm) and then furnace cooled
to ambient temperature. Powder x-ray-diffraction (XRD) measurements
confirmed the purity of the compounds ( 97

The dc magnetic measurements on solid ceramic pieces (on powdered sample
for the regenerated samples) in the range of 2-300 K were performed in a
commercial (Quantum Design) superconducting quantum interference device
magnetometer (SQUID). The magnetization was measured by two different
procedures. (a) The sample was zero field cooled (ZFC) to 5 K, a field
was applied and the magnetization was measured as a function of
temperature. (b) The sample was field cooled (FC) from above 250 K to 5
K and the magnetization was measured. The Mossbauer spectroscopy studies
(MS) of ¹⁵¹Eu were carried out using a conventional constant
acceleration spectrometer and a 50 mCi ¹⁵¹SmF3 source, and the isomer
shifts (IS) are reported with respect to this source.

## Experimental Results

XRD studies show that Eu1,4Ce0,6MSr2Cu2O10-_d_ (_M_ = Nb and Ru) has a
tetragonal structure with the space group _I4/mmm_. The lattice
parameters are a = 3.866(1), 3.846(1) A and c = 28.72(1), 28.50(1) A,
respectively. These lattice parameters are in excellent agreement with
data published in Refs. 8-10. In the limit of uncertainty, the hydrogen
charged samples have the same size as the parent compound. MS performed
at 90 and 300 K on ¹⁵¹Eu in the two host and hydrogen loaded materials
(not shown) show a single narrow linewidth in the range of
2.48(1)-2.27(1) mm/s. The fit yields IS of 0.67(2) mm/s and a quadrupole
splitting in the range of 2.20-2.52 mm/s. The small IS values obtained
indicate that in all samples the Eu ions are trivalent with a
nonmagnetic J = 0 ground state. Roughly speaking, the MS values obtained
are not sensitive to the M ions or to whether the samples are hydrogen
loaded. In the subsequent figures, unless otherwise specified, the
susceptibility in units of emu/ mol Oe is defined as the ratio of the
magnetization M to the applied field H (_kh_ = _M_/_H_).

Figure 1: Temperature dependence of the magnetic susceptibility measured
at 1 kOe for Eu1,4Ce0,6NbSr2Cu2O10−_d_ and 0.35 at.

The effect of hydrogen on the SC Eu_(1A)Ce_(0.6)RuSr₂Cu₂O_(10 − δ)

Magnetic susceptibility studies (Fig. 1) of
Eu1_(A)Ce0_(δ)NbSr₂Cu₂O_(10 − δ) (EuCeNb) measured at 1 kOe show an
onset of SC at T_(c) = 21(1) K, in good agreement with Ref. [7]. For the
hydrogen charged sample (EuCeNbH) SC is totally suppressed and the
nearly linear isothermal positive M(H) curve clearly indicates a normal
paramagnetic behavior. (Fig. 1 inset). Note the merging of χ(T) curves
above T_(c) .

Previous thermogravimetric analysis indicates [7] that the Nb-2122
system is stable up to 600 ^(∘)C and no oxygen weight loss is detected.
Therefore, it is assumed that in the "regenerated" EuCeNb sample only
the absorbed hydrogen is depleted, and no oxygen gain is involved. Our
magnetic measurements show that for the "regenerated" sample, SC is
restored with T_(c) = 21 K. M(H) measurements at 5 K for this material
(Fig. 1 inset) exhibit the typical hysteresis loop for a SC compound.
The diamagnetic signal increases linearly up to 90 Oe, and the estimated
shielding fraction deduced from this curve is ∼ 20

The effect of hydrogen on the SC and magnetic behavior of
Eu_(1A)Ce_(0.6)RuSr₂Cu₂O_(10 − δ)

Our main interest here is to compare the magnetic properties of EuCeRu
(Ref. [5]) and the hydrogen loaded EuCeRu+H materials. For the sake of
clarity, we shall refer briefly to magnetic studies of EuCeRu where SC
occurs for Ce contents of 0.5-0.8, but the highest T_(c) was obtained
for x = 0.6, [10] the concentration that has been studied here.

The magnetization curves in EuCeRu are composed of three contributions:
(a) a negative moment below T_(c) due to a SC state, (b) a positive
moment due to the paramagnetic effective moment of Eu and (c), a
contribution from the ferromagneticlike behavior of the Ru sublattice.
ZFC and FC magnetic measurements were performed for a broad range of
field strengths, and typical χ(T) curves measured at H = 50 Oe are shown
in Fig. 2. The ZFC branch at low temperatures is negative, and T_(c) =
32 K, obtained from resistivity measurements [5] can be also observed
from this curve. Since SC is confined to the CuO₂ planes, all the
magnetic anomalies in Fig. 2 above T_(c) are related to the Ru-O planes.
The two ZFC and FC curves merge at $T_{\rm irr}$ = 92 K. $T_{\rm irr}$
decreases with field and around H = 2 kOe the irreversibility is washed
out. [5] Note that T_(N) (Ru) is not at $T_{\rm irr}$. The χ(T)

Figure 3: Hystersis loops at 5 K for EuCeRu and EuCeRu+H. The inset
extends the M(H) curve for EuCeRu up to 50 kOe.

Figure 2: Temperature dependence of the magnetic susceptibility measured
at 50 Oe for Eu1_(A)Ce0_(δ)RuSr₂Cu₂O_(10 − δ) and 0.35 at.

curves in Fig. 2 do not lend themselves to an easy determination of
T_(N) (Ru), and T_(N)(Ru) = 122 K was obtained from ac χ(T)
measurements,5 and directly from the temperature dependence of the
saturation moment (Fig. 5) discussed later. No other anomalies were
observed at higher temperatures. The irreversibility at $T_{\rm irr}$
arises as a result of an anti-symmetric exchange coupling of the
Dzyaloshinsky-Moriya (DM) type [13] between neighboring Ru moments,
induced by a local distortion that breaks the tetragonal symmetry of the
RuO₆ octahedra. Due to this DM interaction, the field causes the
adjacent spins to cant slightly out of their original direction and to
align a component of the moments with the direction of H. Below
$T_{\rm irr}$ the Ru-Ru interactions begin to dominate, leading to
reorientation of the Ru moments, and the peak in the ZFC branch is
observed. The exact nature of the local structural distortions causing
this reorientation is not presently known. Above T_(N) (Ru), the χ(T)
curves adhere to the Curie-Weiss law.

M(H) measurements at various temperatures for EuCeRu have been carried
out, and at low temperatures, both the WFM and the SC properties are
clearly observed in the curves (Figs. 3 and 4). At 5 K, (a) the negative
moments increase linearly up to 30 Oe, typical for SC state below H_(C1)
and (b) a hystersis loop is opened below 1.5 kOe. The estimated
shielding fraction deduced from this curve (ignoring possible
contributions from Ru and/or Eu⁴⁺) is about 30

The physical behavior of the hydrogen charged EuCeRu + H material is
shown in Figs. 2-6. (a) The temperature dependence of the resistivity
(in arbitrary units) shown in Fig. 2 (inset), (b) the absence of the
deflection in the ZFC branch (Fig. 2), and (c) the positive M(H) curve
obtained at low fields (Fig. 4) all indicate clearly that in EuCeRu + H,
SC is totally suppressed, and that this material behaves in a way
similar to EuCeNbH (Fig. 1). Moreover, Figs. 2-6 exhibit the magnetic
properties belonging to the Ru sites, which are

Figure 4: Virgin magnetization curves at 5 K for EuCeRu and EuCeRu + H.
Note the negative values for the SC EuCeRu and the peak at 50 Oe.

Figure 5: Temperature dependence of the saturated magnetization
$M_{\rm sat}$ for EuCeRu and EuCeRu + H. For both systems $M_{\rm sat}$
disappears at T_(N) (Ru).

Figure 6: Temperature dependence of the coercive fields, and remanent
magnetization $M_{\rm rem}$ (inset) for EuCeRu and EuCeRu + H.

all _enhanced_, as compared to the host EuCeRu. More specifically, the
_kh_(_T_) values (at H = 50 Oe) of the FC branch (Fig. 2) are much
higher, and _T_itr and T_(N)(Ru) are shifted to 167(2) and 225(2) K,
respectively. The typical hysteresis loop at 5 K, opened below 5 kOe is
much broader for EuCeRu+H (Fig. 3) and all the characteristic features
such as _M_sat, _M_rcm, and H_(c) extracted from the hysteresis loops
measured at various temperatures and shown in Figs. 4-6 support this
statement. Note the higher values and the discontinuity around 40 K in
_M_sat(_T_) of EuCeRu+H (Fig. 5). The two _M_sat(_T_) curves show a
different shape, thus scaling them is impossible. T_(N)(Ru)=225(2) K can
be deduced directly from this curve. This indicates clearly that in
EuCeRu the effect of hydrogen charging is to suppress SC, and to enhance
the magnetic properties of the Ru sublattice.

### SC and magnetic behavior of the regenerated Eu14CeRu8RuSr2Cu2O10-_d_

Here again, we heated EuCeRu+H to 250 degC and assume that only the
absorbed hydrogen is depleted. The ZFC and FC magnetic susceptibilities
measured at 50 Oe of the regenerated EuCeRu (carried out on powdered
sample) are shown in Fig. 7. Both the negative values in the ZFC branch
at low temperatures, and the increase of the negative moments with the
applied field at 5 K (Fig. 7 inset), indicate clearly that SC is
restored for this sample; thus the suppression of SC by hydrogen is
reversible. Note that (i) the ZFC branch becomes negative at around 40
K, and (ii) the peak in the _M_(_H_) is shifted to 200 Oe, which
indicates a higher T_(c) value for this material. Moreover, Fig. 7 shows
that the two branches merge at _T_itr 90 K (in contrast to 167 K for
EuCeRu+H) in perfect agreement with the T_(r) of the parent sample (Fig.
2). The small difference in the _M_/_H_ values (about 10

The following experimental evidence _excludes_ the possibility that the
reversible magnetic behavior (Figs. 7 and 8) is an effect of change in
the oxygen concentration. (1) As

Figure 8: Isothermal magnetization curves at various temperatures for
regenerated EuCeRu. Note the linear _M_(_H_) curve at 150 K.

Figure 7: Temperature dependence of the magnetic susceptibility measured
at 50 Oe for the regenerated Eu14Ce06RuSr2Cu2O10−_d_ Virgin
magnetization curves at 5 K typical for a SC state, is shown in the
inset.

stated above, previous thermogravimetric analysis indicates[7] that the
_M_-2122 system is stable up to 600 degC, and no oxygen weight loss is
detected. Therefore, it is assumed that in the "regenerated" sample,
where the heat treatments were performed at relative low temperatures
(150-250 degC), only the absorbed hydrogen is depleted, and no oxygen
gain is involved. (2) Our scanning-tunneling-spectroscopy studies show
that the oxygen content of Ru-2122 samples treated at various
temperatures and oxygen pressures remains constant up to 700 degC (to be
published). (3) Samples annealed at 150 degC under vacuum for a few
hours, exhibit similar magnetic behavior to the curves shown in Fig. 2
for the parent material.

## Discussion

The magnetic behavior of the hydrogen charged _M_-2122 (_M_ = Nb and Ru)
materials studied here can be compared to other ceramic SC systems such
as YBCO and YBa₂Cu₄O₈, which have been studied extensively. As stated
above, similar changes in the SC properties of YBCO can be induced by
either removing oxygen or adding hydrogen, and the oxygen can be
extracted easily. Two different reactions can take place with hydrogen.
(a) At low hydrogen pressure, the extraction of oxygen leads to the
formation of H₂O.[3] (b) At high hydrogen pressure, a stable hydride is
formed. In any case, hydrogen loading is a destructive reaction, and by
heating the samples, hydrogen can be removed only as H₂O, the crystal
structure is destroyed and SC is not restored.[5]

Hole (or carrier) density in the CuO₂ planes, or deviation of the formal
Cu valence from Cu²⁺, is a primary parameter that governs _T_(c)_ in
most of the HTSC compounds. Chemically doped holes, which may be
measured as the effective $\left[{\rm CuO}\right]^{p}$ charge (or the
nominal Cu valence 2 + _p_), are obtained by depletion of oxygen in
YBCO, or by increasing the Sr concentration in La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄. As
already shown, SC emerges only in the narrow window of the carrier
concentration; e.g., the highest _T_(c)_ achieved for YBCO and
La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄ is for p ∼ 0.2 and 0.15, respectively.[15]

The influence of hydrogen on EuCeNb and EuCeRu is reversible, which
means that hydrogen loading is not destructive as in the YBCO and 124
systems. We assume that hydrogen resides in interstitial sites and
changes the hole density of the SC CuO planes, either by increasing or
decreasing the ideal effective charge p of the sample. Once p of the
planes changes, SC is suppressed, and EuCeNbH and EuCeRu+H exhibit
paramagnetic behavior down to 2 K. Depletion of hydrogen leads to the
original p value and SC is restored.

The spin canting and the saturated magnetization (_M_sat in relatively
low applied field are the striking features of EuCeRu. The isothermal
magnetization curves, and the hysteresis loops at various temperatures
expected for a WFM (Figs. 2 and 3) are quite obvious. The Ru spins (at
50 Oe) undergo a reorientation at _T${}_{\rm irr}$_=92 K, and at 2 kOe
all the anomalies and the irreversibility in the χ(T) curves are washed
out.[5] More importantly, _M${}_{\rm sat}$_=0.63_m_B_ Ru at 5 K is much
smaller than 1.3_m_B and 1.4_m_B_ obtained for SrRuO₃ and Sr₃Ru₂O₇,
respectively where simple charge counting leads to Ru⁴⁺. Indeed, χ(T)
studies at elevated temperatures indicate that Ru⁴⁺ is in the low-spin S
= 1 state.[16] Assuming similar valence of Ru in EuCeRu means that only
a fraction of the Ru moments is aligned by the external field and
saturates above 2 kOe. Although, EuCeRu exhibits normal paramagnetic
behavior above _T_(N)_, the Ru ion valence cannot easily be determined,
due to the following reasons. (1) The paramagnetic effective moment
extracted is composed of two additional contributions: the high
susceptibility of Eu³⁺, and that of Cu²⁺. (2) Determination of the
absolute oxygen content is difficult, because CeO₂ and RuO₂ are not
completely reducible[7] to stoichiometric oxides on heating to high
temperatures.

Hydrogenation enhances _T_(N)_ and all other _weak_ ferromagnetic
characteristic features of the host EuCeRu material. This effect, which
was also observed in several rare-earth-based intermetallic
hydrides,[17] is undoubtedly an electronic effect. As described above,
in addition to the change in the hole density of the Cu-O planes, there
is a transfer of electrons from H to the Ru 4d subbands, resulting in an
increase in the moment of the Ru sublattice and hence to an increase in
the overall magnetic parameters. An alternative way is to assume that
the enhancement of _M${}_{\rm sat}$_, _M${}_{\rm rem}$_, and _H_(c)_
arises from a change of the antisymmetric exchange coupling of the DM
type between the adjacent Ru moments, which causes the spins to cant out
of their original direction with a larger angle and as a result, a
larger component of the Ru moments forms the WFM state. However, this
scenario cannot reconcile the higher _T_(N)_ observed in EuCeRu+H. The
exact nature of the local structure distortions causing the WFM behavior
in both materials, as well as the hydrogen location in the matrix, are
not presently known and neutron diffraction studies are now being
carried out to address these points. Our central assumption is that Ru
in EuCeRu orders magnetically at elevated temperatures, and bulk SC is
confined to the Cu-O planes, and both sublattices are practically
decoupled. Since hydrogen loading affects both phenomena, and the
original behavior is restored when hydrogen is depleted, we tend to
believe that H atoms occupy interstitial sites close to these planes,
presumably inside the Sr-O planes.

## Acknowledgment

The research was supported by the Klachky Foundation for
Superconductivity.

## References

* [1] I. Felner, B. Brosh, S. D. Gorn, C. Corn, and V. Volterra, Phys.
Rev. B **43**, 10 368 (1991). * [2] I. Felner, I. Nowik, B. Brosh, D.
Hechel, and E. R. Bauminger, Phys. Rev. B **43**, 8737 (1991). * [3] H.
Lutgemeier, S. Schmenn, H. Schone, Yu. Baikov, I. Felner, S. Gorn, and
C. Korn, J. Alloys Compd. **219**, 29 (1995). * [4] G. Dortmann, J.
Erxmeyer, S. Blasser, J. Steiger, T. Poatsch, A. Weidinger, H. Karl, and
B. Stritzker, Phys. Rev. B **49**, 600 (1994).

* (5) I. Felner, U. Asaf, Y. Levi, and O. Millo, Phys. Rev. B **55**,
R3374 (1997). * (6) I. Felner, D. Sprinzak, U. Asaf, and T. Kroner,
Phys. Rev. B **51**, 3120 (1995). * (7) R. J. Cava, J. J. Krajewski, H.
Takagi, H. W. Zandbergen, R. V. VanDover, W. F. Peck, Jr., and B.
Hessen, Physica C **191**, 237 (1992); I. Felner, U. Yaron, U. Asaf, T.
Kroner, and B. Breit, Phys. Rev. B **49**, 6903 (1994). * (8) T. J.
Goodwin, H. B. Radousky, and R. N. Shelton, Physica C **204**, 212
(1993). * (9) M. Bennahmias, H. B. Radousky, C. M. Buford, A. B. Kebede,
M. McIntyre, T. J. Goodwin, and R. N. Shelton, Phys. Rev. B **53**, 2773
(1996). * (10) L. Bauernfeind, W. Widder, and H. F. Braun, Physica C
**254**, 151 (1995). * (11) For a review, L. N. Bulaevskii, A. I.
Buzdin, M. I. Kulic, and S. V. Panjukov, Adv. Phys. **34**, 175
(1985). * (12) H. Eisaki, H. Takagi, R. J. Cava, B. Batlogg, J. J.
Krajenski, W. F. Peck, Jr., K. Mizuhashi, T. O. Lee, and S. Uchida,
Phys. Rev. B **50**, 647 (1994). * (13) J. Dzyaloshinsky, J. Phys. Chem.
Solids **4**, 241 (1958); T. Moriya, Phys. Rev. **120**, 91 (1960). *
(14) E. B. Sonin and I. Felner (unpublished) * (15) S. Uchida, Physica C
**185-189**, 28 (1991). * (16) G. Cao, S. McCall, and J. E. Crow, Phys.
Rev. B **55**, R672 (1997). * (17) L. Y. Zhang, G. T. Rado, S. H. Liou,
and C. L. Chien, J. Magn. Magn. Mater. **62**, 203 (1986).
