Heat capacity evidence for conventional superconductivity in the type-II
Dirac semimetal PdTe₂

Amit and Yogesh Singh

Department of Physical Sciences, Indian Institute of Science Education
and Research (IISER) Mohali, Knowledge City, Sector 81, Mohali 140306,
India

###### Abstract

We use electrical transport, magnetoresistance, and heat capacity
measurements on high quality single crystals of the recently discovered
superconducting type-II Dirac semimetal PdTe₂, to probe the nature of
its superconducting phase. The magnitude of the electronic heat-capacity
anomaly at T_(c), the low temperature exponential T dependence of the
heat capacity, the linear H dependence of the T = 0 electronic
Sommerfeld coefficient, and a conventional H − T phase diagram establish
that the superconductivity in PdTe₂ is conventional in nature despite
the presence of a topologically nontrivial Fermi surface band, which
contributes to the electrical conduction.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.97.054515

## I Introduction

Topological superconductors (TSCs) have been the focus of intense recent
research [1]. This is in part due to the possibility that these
materials may host Majorana fermion excitations [2,3] which, in addition
to being of fundamental interest, can also be used in fault-tolerant
Quantum computation. Additionally, several predictions for TSC suggest
unconventional superconducting properties like point or line nodes in
the gap structure, unconventional pairing, mixed order parameters, and
the possibility of an Fulde-Ferrell-Larkin-Ovchinnikov (FFLO) state
[1,4, 5, 6, 7]. To stabilize topological superconductivity (TSC),
various routes have been pursued. For example, doping [8, 9, 10, 11, 12,
13, 14, 15] or pressurizing [16] a parent topological material, studying
chiral spin-triplet superconductors [17], making heterostructures of a
semiconductor with a conventional superconductor [18, 19], or a
topological material with a conventional superconductor [20, 21].
Another exciting new avenue has opened up in which superconductivity has
been shown to emerge in nanoscale point contacts between topological
materials and normal metals [22, 23, 24].

In all these routes, superconductivity is induced by some tuning like
doping, pressure, proximity, or confinement. It would be ideal to look
for a system in which topological band structure and superconductivity
emerge naturally and to then demonstrate the topological character of
the superconductivity.

Recently, a new family of transition-metal dichalcogenide materials AX₂
(A= Pt, Pd, X= Te, Se) have been shown to be type-II Dirac materials
where the electronic band structure consists of a tilted Dirac cone [25,
26, 27, 28]. This follows the discovery of type-II Weyl materials [29,
30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35]. Both the type-II Weyl and Dirac fermions
observed in the above materials break Lorentz invariance and are
therefore fundamentally different quasiparticles compared to the normal
type-I Dirac and Weyl fermions discovered earlier. The study of the
properties of these type-II topological materials are therefore of
immense fundamental interest and could lead to important technological
applications. How conventional or fairly well-understood states of
matter like magnetism or superconductivity emerge in materials with
topological band structures has been an emerging frontier area of
research. In this context, PdTe₂ is especially important since it is
known to also host a superconducting state below the critical
temperature T_(c) ≈ 1.7 K [36, 37]. While there are now several
theoretical studies on TSC in type-I topological materials [1, 4, 5, 6],
to our knowledge there is only one theoretical study of
superconductivity in type-II topological materials [7]. That study
showed that unconventional superconductivity with a nodal gap structure
will emerge if the superconductivity in PdTe₂ involves electrons in the
tilted topological band [7]. TSC in PdTe₂ is thus an exciting
possibility, which needs to be carefully examined.

In this paper, we report electrical transport, magnetotransport, and
heat capacity C measurements on high quality single crystals of the
superconducting type-II Dirac semimetal PdTe₂ to explore the possible
unconventional (topological) nature of the superconducting state. We
confirm superconductivity with a critical temperature T_(c) ≈ 1.7 K
using electrical transport measurements. From recent de Haas-Van Alphen
(dHvA) oscillations in magnetization measurements, we have shown that
four bands contribute to the transport, including a band with a
nontrivial Berry phase [38]. This raises the enticing possibility of TSC
in PdTe₂. Our heat capacity measurements demonstrate bulk
superconductivity below T_(c) ≈ 1.7 K. The size of the superconducting
anomaly in the heat capacity ΔC at T_(c) is estimated to be
ΔC/γ Tc ≈ 1.52, which is close to the value 1.43 expected for a
conventional weak-coupling single-gap BCS superconductor. The C(T) at
low temperature shows an exponential T dependence suggesting a fully
gapped superconducting state. Additionally, the C(T) data in various
applied magnetic fields H is used to construct an H-T phase diagram,
which also shows conventional behavior. Finally, the T = 0 electronic
Sommerfeld coefficient shows a linear H dependence ruling out nodes in
the superconducting gap. Thus, our measurements strongly indicate that
the superconductivity in PdTe₂ is conventional in nature despite the
presence of topologically nontrivial electrons contributing to the
transport.

## II Experimental

Single crystals of PdTe₂ were synthesized using a modified Bridgeman
method. The starting elements, Pd powder (99.99

The electrical transport and heat capacity down to 0.4 K were measured
using the He3 option of a quantum-design physical property measurement
system (QD-PPMS).

## III Electrical transport

Figure 1 shows the electrical resistivity ρ versus temperature T
measured in zero magnetic field with a current I = 0.5 mA applied within
the crystallographic _ab_ plane. The ρ(T) shows metallic behavior with
ρ(300 K) ≈ 70 μΩ cm and ρ(2 K) ≈ 0.94 μΩ cm, giving a residual
resistivity ratio RRR ≈ 75. This RRR is larger than reported earlier,
indicating that the PdTe₂ crystals are of high quality. The lower inset
in Fig. 1 shows the ρ(T) data below T = 3 K and the abrupt drop to zero
resistance below T_(c) = 1.75 K confirms the superconductivity in PdTe₂.

We have recently reported [38] observation of quantum oscillations in
the magnetization measurements on PdTe₂ crystals below T = 20 K, again
suggesting the high quality of the samples. For magnetic field applied
perpendicular to the c axis, we observed a single frequency at 439 T in
the fast Fourier transform of the dHvA data. The Berry phase for this
band was estimated to be nontrivial, suggesting its topological nature.
Additionally, three other frequencies were observed for H||c-axis. Thus
there are multiple electronic bands including a topological band
contributing to the transport, and it is unclear from just transport
measurements whether the observed superconductivity itself has any
unconventional topological character.

## IV Heat capacity

We have therefore used heat capacity measurements to address the nature
of superconductivity in PdTe₂. Figure 2(a) shows the heat capacity C
versus temperature T data for PdTe₂ between T = 0.4 and 3 K measured in
H = 0 and H = 500 Oe magnetic field. A sharp anomaly at T_(c) = 1.72 K
in the H = 0 data indicates that the superconductivity in PdTe₂ is bulk
in nature. No anomaly is observed down to the lowest temperatures
measured in H = 500 Oe, suggesting that the superconductivity has been
completely suppressed. This is confirmed by our heat capacity data in
various magnetic fields, which will be presented later. The H = 500 Oe
data was treated as the normal state data and was fit to the expression
C = γT + βT³. The fit (not shown) gave the values γ = 6.01(3) mJ/mol K²
and β = 0.66(1) mJ/mol K⁴. The lattice part βT³ was then subtracted from
the C(T) data at H = 0 to obtain the electronic part of the heat
capacity $C_{\rm el}$. The electronic heat capacity divided by
temperature $C_{\rm el}/T$ versus T is shown in Fig. 2(b). An extremely
sharp transition at the onset of superconductivity is observed at
T_(c) = 1.72 K. The normal state Sommerfeld coefficient γ = 6.01 mJ/mol
K² is indicated by an extrapolation [dashed line in Fig. 2(b)] to T = 0
of the normal state data. An equal entropy construction (not shown) gave
almost the same T_(c) = 1.69 K, indicating no broadening or smearing out
of the superconducting transition due to sample inhomogeneities or
imperfections.

The data at the lowest temperatures were fit by the expression
$C_{\rm el}/T=\gamma_{\rm res}+A\exp(-\Delta/T)$, where
$\gamma_{\rm res}$ is the residual Sommerfeld coefficient from the
nonsuperconducting fraction of the sample and the second term is a
phenomenological exponential decay expected for a gapped (s-wave
superconductor) system. The fit shown in Fig. 2(b) as the solid curve
through the data below T = 0.5 K gave the value $\gamma_{\rm res}=0.4$
mJ/mol K². With the total γ = 6.01 mJ/mol K², this suggests that ≈7

The magnitude of the anomaly in heat capacity at the superconducting
transition is another measure of the nature (weak or strong coupling,
single, or multigap) of superconductivity. From the data in Fig. 2(b),
we estimate ΔC/γT_(c) ≈ 1.52, which is close to the value 1.43 expected
for a conventional, weak-coupling, single-gap BCS superconductor. This
further

Figure 1: Electrical resistivity ρ versus T for PdTe₂ measured in zero
applied magnetic field with a current I = 0.5 mA applied in the
crystallographic _ab_ plane. The top inset shows an optical image of a
PdTe₂ crystal placed on a millimeter grid. The bottom inset shows the
ρ(T) data below 3 K to highlight the superconducting transition with
T_(c) ≈ 1.75 K.

supports the conventional nature of superconductivity in PdTe₂.

Heat capacity C versus T measurements at various magnetic fields are
shown in Fig. 3(a). As expected, the superconducting transition
temperature is monotonically suppressed to lower temperatures and its
magnitude becomes smaller at higher fields as seen in Fig. 3(a). From an
equal entropy construction for the C(T) data at each H, we extract the
T_(c) at that H and use it to draw a critical-field H_(c) versus
temperature (H_(c) − T) phase diagram, which we will discuss later. From
the C(T) data at various H, the lattice part was subtracted to get the
electronic part $C_{\rm{el}}(T)$. This data is shown in Fig. 3(b),
plotted as $C_{\rm{el}}/T$ vs T. The data for each H were fit by the
expression $C_{\rm{el}}/T=\gamma_{\rm{res}}+A\exp(-\Delta/T)$ to get
$\gamma_{\rm{res}}(H)$. For an s-wave superconductor one expects
$\gamma_{\rm{res}}(H)\propto H$. Whereas for a nodal superconductor,
$\gamma_{\rm{res}}(H)\propto H^{1/2}$ is expected, which is called the
Volovik effect Ref. [39]. Fig. 3(c) shows that $\gamma_{\rm{res}}(H)$
follows a linear in H dependence, further supporting conventional
superconductivity in PdTe₂.

Finally, the H_(c) − T phase diagram obtained from the C(T, H) data
above is shown in Fig. 4 and also follows a conventional behavior
expected for a BCS superconductor. In particular, we were able to fit
the data with the phenomenological expression
H_(c)(T) = H_(c)(0)[1 − (T/T_(c))²], with

Figure 3: (a) Heat capacity C versus T for PdTe₂ between T = 0.4 and 3
K, measured in various magnetic fields H. (b) The electronic
contribution to the heat capacity $C_{\rm{el}}$ divided by T at various
H. (c) The T = 0 value of the Sommerfeld coefficient
$\gamma_{0}=C_{\rm{el}}/T$ vs H. The solid line through the data is a
linear fit.

Figure 2: (a) Heat capacity C versus T for PdTe₂ measured in H = 0 and
H = 500 Oe. (b) Electronic contribution to the heat capacity divided by
temperature $C_{\rm{el}}/T$. The horizontal dash-dot line is the value
γ = 6.01 mJ/mol K² and the solid curve through the lowest T data is a
fit by a gapped model (see text for details).

the T = 0 critical field H_(c)(0), and the critical temperature T_(c) as
fit parameters. The fit shown as the solid curve through the data in
Fig. 4 gave the values H_(c)(0) = 195(2) Oe and T_(c) = 1.78 K,
respectively.

## V V. Summary and discussion

PdTe₂ is an interesting material where a superconducting state below
T_(c) ≈ 1.7 K coexists with a topological band structure. Specifically,
PdTe₂ has previously been shown to be a type-II Dirac semimetal, raising
the possibility of hosting a topological superconducting state. A recent
theoretical study of superconductivity in type-II Weyl metals, relevant
for PdTe₂, predicts a superconducting state with nodes in the gap
function [7]. Such a state leads to a $C_{\rm el}\sim T^{3}$ behavior in
the superconducting state in the low temperature limit. This in turn
would lead to a reduced jump in the heat capacity at T_(c). Nodes in the
gap function also lead to the observation of the Volovik effect in a
magnetic field, $C_{\rm el}/T\sim\sqrt{H}$[39].

In this paper, we have used thermodynamic measurements on high quality
single crystals of PdTe₂ to probe the nature of the superconductivity.
Our heat capacity measurements confirm bulk superconductivity at
T_(c) = 1.7 K and show that the anomaly at T_(c) is characterized by the
ratio ΔC/γT_(c) ≈ 1.5, which is close to the value 1.43 expected for a
weak-coupling, single-band BCS superconductor. The electronic
contribution to the heat capacity $C_{\rm el}$ at the lowest
temperatures shows an exponential T dependence, which points to a gapped
s-wave superconductivity. From H dependent C(T) measurements, we find
$C_{\rm el}/T\sim H$, in contrast with behavior expected for nodal
superconductivity. Additionally, the critical field versus temperature
phase diagram shows a behavior expected for a conventional
superconductor. Therefore, all our results strongly indicate that, in
spite of the presence of a topological band in the electronic
band-structure of PdTe₂, which contributes to the transport properties,
the superconductivity in PdTe₂ is most likely conventional in character.

While there are very few direct predictions of signatures of TSC in heat
capacity measurements, most theoretical work on TSC predict
unconventional order parameters with point or line nodes in the SC gap
structure. Nodes in the gap structure would lead to a nonexponential T
dependence of the electronic heat capacity in the SC state as T → 0.
There are also predictions of mixed order parameters with an s-wave
component plus other unconventional components to the SC gap. In such
cases, depending on the fraction of the unconventional component, the
heat capacity could be exponential (mostly s-wave component) or might
deviate from it. However, because of this extra non-s-wave component,
the entropy balance will necessarily lead to the jump in the heat
capacity at T_(c) to become smaller than the BCS value. In our case, the
jump is close to and, in fact, slightly larger than the BCS value. Thus,
our heat capacity results rule out such scenarios. So, in the least, our
results put strong constraints on what kind of TSC, if any at all, could
exist in PdTe₂.

A recent ac and dc magnetic study on PdTe₂ has found a similar H − T
phase diagram consistent with conventional bulk superconductivity [37].

## Acknowledgment

We thank the x-ray and SEM facilities at IISER Mohali.

## References

* [1] M. Sato and Y. Ando, Rep. Prog. Phys. **80**, 076501 (2017). * [2]
J. Alicea, Rep. Prog. Phys. **75**, 076501 (2012). * [3] S. R. Elliot
and M. Franz, Rev. Mod. Phys. **87**, 137 (2015). * [4] G. Bednik, A. A.
Zyuzin, and A. A. Burkov, Phys. Rev. B **92**, 035153 (2015). * [5] S.
Kobayashi and M. Sato, Phys. Rev. Lett. **115**, 187001 (2015). * [6] T.
Hashimoto, S. Kobayashi, Y. Tanaka, and M. Sato, Phys. Rev. B **94**,
014510 (2016). * [7] M. Alidoust, K. Halterman, and A. A. Zyuzin, Phys.
Rev. B **95**, 155124 (2017). * [8] Y. S. Hor, A. J. Williams, J. G.
Checkelsky, P. Roushan, J. Seo, Q. Xu, H. W. Zandbergen, A. Yazdani, N.
P. Ong, and R. J. Cava, Phys. Rev. Lett. **104**, 057001 (2010). * [9]
M. Kriener, K. Segawa, Z. Ren, S. Sasaki, and Y. Ando, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**106**, 127004 (2011). * [10] Z. Liu, X. Yao, J. Shao, M. Zuo, L. Pi,
S. Tan, C. Zhang, and Y. Zhang, J. Am. Chem. Soc. **137**, 10512
(2015). * [11] T. Asaba, B. J. Lawson, C. Tinsman, L. Chen, P. Corbae,
G. Li, Y. Qiu, Y. S. Hor, L. Fu, and L. Li, Phys. Rev. X **7**, 011009
(2017). * [12] Y. S. Hor, J. G. Checkelsky, D. Qu, N. P. Ong, and R. J.
Cava, Phys. J. Chem. Solids **72**, 572 (2011). * [13] Amit and Y.
Singh, J. Supercond. Novel Mag. **29**, 1975 (2016). * [14] A. S.
Erickson, J.-H. Chu, M. F. Toney, T. H. Geballe, and I. R. Fisher, Phys.
Rev. B **79**, 024520 (2009)

Figure 4: The critical magnetic field H_(c) versus temperature T phase
diagram extracted from the C versus T data measured at various H shown
in Fig. 3. The solid curve through the data is a fit by a
phenomenological dependence (see text for details).

* [15] G. Balakrishnan, L. Bawden, S. Cavendish, and M. R. Lees, Phys.
Rev. B **87**, 140507 (2013). * [16] J. L. Zhang, S. J. Zhang, H. M.
Weng, W. Zhang, L. X. Yang, Q. Q. Liu, S. M. Feng, X. C. Wang, R. C. Yu,
L. Z. Cao, L. Wang, W. G. Yang, H. Z. Liu, W. Y. Zhao, S. C. Zhang, X.
Dai, Z. Fang, and C. Q. Jin, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA **108**, 24
(2010). * [17] G. M. Luke, Y. Fudamoto, K. M. Kojima, M. I. Larkin, J.
Merrin, B. Nachumi, Y. J. Uemura, Y. Maeno, Z. Q. Mao, Y. Mori, H.
Nakamura, and M. Sigrist, Nature **394**, 558 (1998). * [18] J. D. Sau,
R. M. Lutchyn, S. Tewari, and S. Das Sarma, Phys. Rev. Lett. **104**,
040502 (2010). * [19] J. Alicea, Phys. Rev. B **81**, 125318 (2010). *
[20] V. S. Pribiag, A. J. A. Beukman, F. Qu, M. C. Cassidy, C.
Charpentier, W. Wegscheider, and L. P. Kouwenhoven, Nat. Nanotech.
**10**, 593 (2015). * [21] C. Beenakker and L. Kouwenhoven, Nat. Phys.
**12**, 618 (2016). * [22] L. Aggarwal, A. Gaurav, G. S. Thakur, Z.
Haque, A. K. Ganguli, and G. Sheet, Nat. Mater. **15**, 32 (2015). *
[23] H. Wang, H. Wang, H. Liu, H. Lu, W. Yang, S. Jia, X. J. Liu, X. C.
Xie, J. Wei, and J. Wang, Nat. Mater. **15**, 38 (2015). * [24] S. Das,
L. Aggarwal, S. Roychowdhury, M. Aslam, S. Gayen, K. Biswas, and G.
Sheet, Appl. Phys. Lett. **109**, 132601 (2016). * [25] H. Huang, S.
Zhou, and W. Duan, Phys. Rev. B **94**, 121117 (2016). * [26] H. J. Noh,
J. Jeong, E. J. Cho, K. Kim, B. I. Min, and B.-G. Park, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**119**, 016401 (2017). * [27] F. Fei, X. Bo, R. Wang, B. Wu, J. Jiang,
D. Fu, M. Gao, H. Zheng, Y. Chen, X. Wang, H. Bu, F. Song, X. Wan, B.
Wang, and G. Wang, Phys. Rev. B **96**, 041201 (2017). * [28] M. Yan, H.
Huang, K. Zhang, E. Wang, W. Yao, K. Deng, G. Wan, H. Zhang, M. Arita,
H. Yang, Z. Sun, H. Yao, Y. Wu, S. Fan, W. Duan, and S. Zhou, Nat.
Commun. **8**, 257 (2017). * [29] Y. Xu, F. Zhang, and C. Zhang, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **115**, 265304 (2015). * [30] A. A. Soluyanov, D. Gresch, Z.
Wang, Q. Wu, M. Troyer, X. Dai, and B. A. Bernevig, Nature **527**, 495
(2015). * [31] H. Weng, C. Fang, Z. Fang, B. A. Bernevig, and X. Dai,
Phys. Rev. X **5**, 011029 (2015). * [32] S.-Y. Xu, I. Belopolski, N.
Alidoust, M. Neupane, G. Bian, C. Zhang, R. Sankar, G. Chang, Z. Yuan,
C.-C. Lee, S.-M. Huang, H. Zheng, J. Ma, D. S. Sanchez, B. Wang, A.
Bansil, F. Chou, P. P. Shibayev, H. Lin, S. Jia, and M. Z. Hasan,
Science **349**, 613 (2015). * [33] K. Deng, G. Wan, P. Deng, K. Zhang,
S. Ding, E. Wang, M. Yan, H. Huang, H. Zhang, Z. Xu, J. Denlinger, A.
Fedorov, H. Yang, W. Duan, H. Yao, Y. Wu, S. Fan, H. Zhang, X. Chen, and
S. Zhou, Nat. Phys. **12**, 1105 (2016). * [34] L. Huang, T. M.
McCormick, M. Ochi, Z. Zhao, M.-T. Suzuki, R. Arita, Y. Wu, D. Mou, H.
Cao, J. Yan, N. Trivedi, and A. Kaminski, Nat. Mater. **15**, 1155
(2016). * [35] J. Jiang, Z. K. Liu, Y. Sun, H. F. Yang, C. R. Rajamathi,
Y. P. Qi, L. X. Yang, C. Chen, H. Peng, C.-C. Hwang, S. Z. Sun, S.-K.
Mo, I. Vobornik, J. Fujii, S. S. P. Parkin, C. Felser, B. H. Yan, and Y.
L. Chen, Nat. Commun. **8**, 13973 (2017). * [36] F. Jellinck, Arkiv.
Kemi **20**, 447 (1963). * [37] H. Leng, C. Paulsen, Y. K. Huang, and A.
de Visser, Phys. Rev. B **96**, 220506 (2017). * [38] S. Das, Amit, A.
Sirohi, L. Yadav, S. Gayen, Y. Singh, and G. Sheet, Phys. Rev. B **97**,
014523 (2018). * [39] G. E. Volovik, JETP Lett. **58**, 469 (1993).
