Magnetoresistivity of thin films of the electron-doped high-T_(c)
superconductor Nd1.85Ce0.15CuO4 _(4 ± δ)

J. Herrmann, M. C. de Andrade, C. C. Almasan, R. P. Dickey, and M. B.
Maple

Department of Physics and Institute for Pure and Applied Physical
Sciences, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, California
92093-0360

Wu Jiang, S. N. Mao, and R. L. Greene

Center for Superconductivity Research, University of Maryland, College
Park, Maryland 20742

###### Abstract

We report measurements of the magnetoresistance of Nd1.85Ce0.15CuO4
_(4 ± δ) epitaxial thin films with varying oxygen content in magnetic
fields H applied parallel (H∥c) and perpendicular (H⊥c) to the
tetragonal c axis. We have observed critical scaling of the electrical
resistivity that is consistent with a vortex-glass transition for a film
with an optimum superconducting transition temperature T_(c) of ∼22 K
and H∥c . The values of the zero-temperature upper critical field
H_(c_(⊥))(0) = 80 kOe and the in-plane zero-temperature coherence length
ξ_(ab)(0) = 64 A were obtained from an analysis of the fluctuation
conductivity. For an overoxygenated film with T_(c)∼10 K, an anomaly
develops with increasing field for H∥c and T≤ 2 K that is characterized
by a minimum in the temperature dependence of the resistivity followed
by a second resistive transition at a lower temperature, which is nearly
independent of H. This behavior is similar to that previously observed
in Nd2-_(x)CeCuO4-_(δ) single crystals and may be associated with the
magnetic ordering of the Nd3+ ions. [S0163-1829(96)01629-3]

## 1 Introduction

The superconducting and normal state properties of the Nd2-_(x)Ce2CuO4
_(4 ± δ) system can be varied by changing the Ce concentration x and the
oxygen deficiency or excess δ, thereby modifying the charge carrier
concentration within the CuO2 planes along with compositional and/or
structural disorder. Both doping routes lead to a systematic reduction
of the superconducting transition temperature T_(c) from its maximum
value of ∼22 K (for Nd1.85Ce0.15CuO3.98) upon doping the system away
from this optimum composition. However, the two doping routes affect the
transport properties such as the normal state electrical resistivity ρ
and magnetoresistance D_R_/_R_, the Hall angle tanΘ_(H), and the Nernst
and Seebeck coefficients E_(N) and E_(S), respectively, in considerably
different ways.[1] The fact that the charge carriers introduced into the
CuO2 planes of the Nd2-_(x)Ce2CuO4 _(4 − δ) compound by substituting
Ce4+ for Nd3+ are electrons[2] imposes severe constraints on the
possible mechanisms for superconductivity in the high-T_(c) cuprates.
The study of the electrical transport properties of the Nd2-_(x)Ce2CuO4
_(4 ± δ) system in both the normal and the superconducting states is
therefore important for obtaining further insight into the
superconducting mechanisms.

The high values of T_(c), short coherence lengths ξ, large penetration
depths λ, and the appreciable anisotropy of the superconducting
properties of the high-T_(c) cuprates strongly enhance the role of
thermal fluctuations and of flux motion compared to the low-T_(c)
type-II superconductors. As a result, a rich variety of phases in the
magnetic field-temperature (H-T) phase diagram of these materials has
been predicted and partially verified by experiments.[4] An issue of
fundamental interest with implications for applications concerns the
nature of the phase transitions that occur within the system of
vortices. One possibility is a first-order transition from a vortex
liquid to an Abrikosov vortex lattice. This has been observed
experimentally as a melting transition in defect-free single
crystals.[5] It is characterized by finite barriers for flux creep and a
nonzero electrical resistivity ρ in the limit of vanishing driving force
(or current density j). Another possibility is a second-order transition
from a vortex liquid to a vortex-glass phase with true zero resistivity
that is believed to be induced by quenched disorder and should exhibit
critical scaling.[6, 7] According to the vortex-glass model, the glass
transition temperature T_(G) corresponds to the temperature where the
vortex system enters a phase with vanishing resistivity, and it can be
identified with the melting temperature of the vortex glass above which
flux motion, and thus dissipation, sets in. Therefore, the knowledge of
the T_(G)(H) line in the H-T phase diagram is of considerable
importance, both for the understanding of the flux dynamics in the mixed
state of type-II superconductors and for applications of
superconductivity. Experimental evidence for a vortex-glass transition
abounds for the hole-doped high-T_(c) superconductors.[8, 9, 10]
However, for the electron-doped cuprates like Nd2-_(x)Ce2CuO4 _(4 − δ)
previous investigations of the scaling of current-voltage (I-V)
characteristics that provided evidence for the existence of the glass
transition have been restricted to the low magnetic field region (H≤10
kOe).[11, 12]

In a previous study on Nd2-_(x)Ce2CuO4 _(4 − δ) single crystals,[13] an
interesting anomaly in the temperature dependence of the in-plane
electrical resistivity ρ_(ab)(T) was observed at temperatures T≤2 K for
crystals with T_(c)≤11 K in applied magnetic fields H∥c . This anomaly
resembled reentrant behavior with ρ(T) increasing below ≈ 2 K and then
dropping sharply below ≈ 1 K. It was suggested that this behavior could
be related to the antiferromagnetic (AFM) ordering of the Nd3+ ions.

In the present work, we report results of magnetoresistance experiments
on _c_-axis oriented Nd1.85Ce0.15CuO4 +- d thin films with varying
oxygen content. For a film with an optimum T_(c) of  22 K and the
external magnetic field H oriented parallel to the tetragonal c axis
(_H_ ∥_c_ ), we observe scaling behavior of the resistivity indicative
of a vortex-glass transition. From an analysis of the fluctuation
conductivity we deduce values for the zero-temperature upper critical
field H_(c₂)(0) = (80 + −5) kOe and the zero-temperature in-plane
coherence length ξ_(ab)(0) = (64 + −2) A . For an overoxygenated film
with a T_(c) of  10 K, we observe an anomaly in ρ_(ab)(T) that is
semiquantitatively comparable to the single-crystal results, which
points toward a common intrinsic origin, possibly magnetic in nature.

## II Experimental details

The _c_-axis oriented Nd1.85Ce0.15CuO4 +- d films were prepared by
pulsed laser deposition in N2O.[14] The oxygen content was varied by
annealing the films in either vacuum ( 1 x 10-5 torr) or oxygen ( 400
torr) at 450-600 degC. The superconducting and structural properties of
the films were found to be fully reversible under oxygenation and
deoxygenation, respectively, with the films retaining the structure of
the T_(t) phase as revealed by x-ray diffraction, transmission electron
microscope cross sectional images, and electron diffraction. The films
with thicknesses of typically 2000 A were patterned into strips of  4.0x
0.1 mm2. Magnetoresistance measurements were performed in applied
magnetic fields of up to 80 kOe oriented parallel (_H_ ∥_c_ ) or
perpendicular (_H_ ⊥_c_ ) to the tetragonal c axis of the films with the
current I flowing in the _ab_ plane using a low-dissipation four-wire ac
resistance bridge operating at a frequency of 16 Hz. Low temperature
(_T_ <2 K) measurements were performed in a ³He/⁴He dilution
refrigerator. Three thin films were investigated; one film (as prepared)
exhibited the optimum T_(c) of  22 K, while the other two films were
annealed for 12 min in vacuum and oxygen, respectively, yielding
_T__c_’s of  15 K (deoxygenated) and  10 K (overoxygenated).

## III Results and discussion

In-plane electrical resistivity ρ_(ab) vs temperature T data in zero
external magnetic field for the three films are displayed in Fig. 1. At
the same temperature, ρ_(ab) is larger for both the deoxygenated and
overoxygenated films, respectively, when compared to ρ_(ab) of the
optimally oxygenated film. As has been pointed out in an earlier
study,[1] the increase of ρ_(ab) with decreasing oxygen content (i.e.,
increasing electron density) is considerably different from the behavior
observed in doping studies of other cuprate superconductors, including
Ce doping in optimally oxygenated Nd2 - - - Ce - CuO 4 - d, where a
monotonic decrease of the resistivity with increasing carrier density
was observed. This peculiar behavior is an indication of the strong
influence of oxygen doping on the electronic structure of Nd2 - - - Ce -
CuO 4 +- d.

Shown in Fig. 2 are ρ_(ab) vs T data in different magnetic fields H for
both ∥_c_ and H ⊥_c_ for the optimally doped film with T_(c) 22 K. With
increasing field H ∥_c_ , the resistive transitions shift nearly
parallel to lower temperatures without exhibiting the characteristic
broadening typically observed in the hole-doped systems such as
YBa2Cu3O7 - d. For H ⊥_c_ , the transitions do not shift much,
illustrating the considerable anisotropy of the superconducting
properties in the Nd2 - - Ce - CuO 4 +- d system.

For larger fields along the c axis (_H_ ∥_c_ >50 kOe) we observe a
gradual shift of the curves to higher resistivities that

Figure 2: Temperature dependence of the electrical resistivity ρ_(ab)(T)
for the as-prepared Nd1.85Ce0.15CuO4 - d film with T_(c) ∼22 K. (a) H
∥_c_. The external magnetic field H for the different ρ_(ab)(T) curves
is 0, 2, 6, 10, 14, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50, 55, 60, and 80 kOe,
respectively. (b) H ⊥_c_. The external magnetic field H for the
different ρ_(ab)(T) curves is varied from 0 to 80 kOe in steps of 20
kOe. The inset illustrates the saturation of ρ_(ab)(T) at low
temperatures for H ∥_c_ > 50 kOe.

Figure 1: Temperature dependence of the zero-field in-plane electrical
resistivity ρ_(ab)(T) for the Nd1.85Ce0.15CuO4 +- d films. (A) T_(c) 22
K (as prepared), (B) T_(c) 15 K (deoxygenated), (C) T_(c) 10 K
(overoxygenated). It is clear that the magnitude of the normal state
resistivity increases for both the overoxygenated and deoxygenated film,
respectively, compared to the as-prepared film.

is characteristic of a magnetic field induced superconductor-insulator
transition as was observed in disordered Nd_(2 − x)Ce_(x)CuO_(4 + δ)
films with reduced T_(c).[15] Low temperature data (T≤ 200 mK) that are
shown in the inset of Fig. 2 exhibit a saturation of ρ_(ab) in this
field range, which would correspond to an intermediate metallic state
between the superconducting and insulating behavior, respectively.
Additional low temperature experiments in higher magnetic fields are
underway to characterize this transition.

Our efforts to analyze the low-dissipation part of the resistive
transitions revealed that the vortex-glass model provides a good
description of the ρ_(ab)(H, T) data for the optimally oxygenated film.
According to the vortex-glass model,[7, 4] the glass transition is
characterized by the divergence of a vortex-glass correlation length
ξ_(G) of the form ξ_(G)∼|T − T_(G)|^(−ν) and of a characteristic
relaxation time τ_(G)∼ξ_(G)^(ξ) as the vortex-glass critical temperature
T_(G) is approached, where ν and z denote the static and dynamic
critical exponents of the transition, respectively. In the scaling
regime, the resistance R should vanish as R∼|T − T_(G)|^(ν(z − 1)).
Therefore, a plot of the inverse logarithmic derivative of the
resistivity ρ_(ab) with respect to the temperature T

$$\left(\frac{d\ln\!\rho_{ab}}{dT}\right)^{-1}\propto\frac{1}{\nu(z\!-\!1)}\left( T\!-\!T_{G}\right)$$

should give a straight line, where the slope defines the critical
exponent ν(z − 1) and the intercept with the T axis defines T_(G). This
type of analysis was first employed to determine the glass transition
temperature in YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) (Ref. 9) and Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O_(8 + δ) (Ref.
10) crystals.

In Fig. 3(a), we illustrate the critical behavior by plotting
(dln  ρ_(ab)/dT)⁻¹ as a function of temperature for the film with T_(c)∼
22 K in a field H∥c = 50 kOe . It is clear that the low-resistivity part
of the transition is well described by a linear temperature dependence,
indicative of critical behavior as the vortex-glass transition is
approached. A semilogarithmic plot of ρ_(ab) vs T given in the same
figure shows that the resistivity changes by almost 3 orders of
magnitude in the temperature interval corresponding to the critical
region. From a linear fit to the data in the critical region that is
given by the solid line in Fig. 3(a), we are able to extract the
critical exponent ν(z − 1) and the glass temperature T_(G). The
advantage of this type of analysis of the ρ_(ab)(T) data, compared to a
plot of ln  ρ_(ab) vs ln  (T − T_(G)), is that the former method permits
a less ambiguous determination of the characteristic temperature T^(⋆)
at which the data start to deviate from the critical behavior and which
defines the width of the critical region.

Neither the slope of the linear fits in the critical regions nor the
width of the temperature interval T^(⋆) − T_(G) where this description
appears to be appropriate seem to exhibit a dramatic field dependence.
This is illustrated by the plot of the critical exponent ν(z − 1) vs H
in Fig. 3(b) which shows that ν(z − 1) varies between 4.2 and 9.3 with
no systematic field dependence. This behavior is in agreement with the
low-field results of Roberts _et al._,[12] who, however, observed a
low-field upturn of both ν and z from the scaling analysis of
resistivity-current isotherms. They interpreted this upturn in terms of
a change of the universality class of the transition.

Figure 4 illustrates that both the glass transition temperature T_(G)(H)
and the characteristic temperature T^(⋆)(H) obtained from the analysis
of ρ_(ab)(T, H) satisfy the relation [T_(c) − T_(⋆)(H)]≈H^(−2ν₀) with
T_(X) representing either T_(G) or T^(⋆). For the exponent ν₀ we find
values of (1.0± 0.1) for T_(X)=T_(G) and (0.85± 0.05) for T_(X)=T^(⋆),
respectively. The width of the critical region T^(⋆) − T_(G) is of the
order of 2−3 K and does not change substantially with magnetic field,
remaining finite for the lowest field of 2 kOe.

To obtain additional information on the H-T phase diagram, it is highly
desirable to determine the upper critical field H_(c₂)(T). In light of
the enhanced role of thermal fluctuations due to the high transition
temperature, short coherence length, and large anisotropy of the
high-T_(c) superconductors, the fluctuation contribution to the
electrical conductivity, $\sigma_{\rm fl}$, was previously analyzed to
determine H_(c₂)(T), for YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) (Ref. 16) and
Sm_(1.85)Ce_(0.15)CuO_(4 − y) (Refs. 17 and 18) single crystals. These
analyses were based on the scaling expressions for $\sigma_{\rm fl}$ in
the high-field limit derived by Ullah and Dorsey[19, 20] within the

Figure 3: (a) Low-resistivity part of the resistive transition for the
Nd_(1.85)Ce_(0.15)CuO_(4 + δ) film with T_(c)≈ 22 K and H∥c for H = 50
kOe. Plotted are ρ_(ab) (left axis, solid circles) and
(dln  ρ_(ab)/dT)⁻¹ (right axis, open circles) vs T. The solid line
represents a linear fit describing the critical region with the slope
representing the critical exponent ν(z − 1) and the intercepts defining
the glass transition temperature T_(G). The arrows mark T_(G) and the
characteristic temperature T^(⋆) at which the data start to deviate from
the critical behavior, defining the width of the critical region. (b)
Magnetic field H dependence of the critical exponent ν(z − 1). The
uncertainties indicated by the error bars arise mainly from the
ambiguity in the choice of the data to be included in the linear fits.

framework of the Ginzburg-Landau fluctuation theory using the Hartree
approximation. The expressions for $\sigma_{\rm fl}$ in the two- (2D)
and three-dimensional (3D) cases, respectively, are given by

$$\sigma_{\rm fl} = \left[\frac{T}{H}\right]^{1/2}\times F_{2{\rm D}}\left[A\,\frac{1} {\left(TH\right)^{1/2}}\,\epsilon_{H}\right],$$

and

$$\sigma_{\rm fl} = \left[\frac{T^{2}}{H}\right]^{1/3}\times F_{3{\rm D}}\left[B\,\frac{1} {\left(TH\right)^{2/3}}\,\epsilon_{H}\right],$$

where F denotes some scaling function,

ϵ_(H) = (T − T_(c₀))/T_(c₀) + H/H_(c₂)(0),

T_(c₀) = T_(c)(H = 0), and A and B are constants. These expressions do
not contain T_(c)(H) directly. However, with the assumption made in
Refs. [16-18], namely

ϵ_(H)[T = T_(c)(H)] = 0,

Eq. (3) becomes ϵ_(H) = [T − T_(c)(H)]/T_(c₀), and Eqs. (1) and (2) now
contain T_(c)(H) explicitly. We want to emphasize, however, that
assumption (4) automatically implies a _linear_T_(c)(H)_dependence_,
T_(c)(H) = T_(c₀)[1 − H/H_(c₂)(0)], across the entire H-T phase diagram.
There is no justification for such a linear dependence of H_(c₂) on T
which is also at variance with the form of H_(c₂)(T) exhibited by
conventional type-II superconductors. This prevents the determination of
T_(c)(H) from the analysis of the scaling behavior of the fluctuation
conductivity with assumption (4). It is possible, however, to extract
the value of H_(c₂)(0) from the scaling of $\sigma_{\rm fl}$ according
to Eqs. (1) and (2), respectively, where H_(c₂)(0) is a free parameter,
provided the zero-field transition temperature T_(c₀) is known.

To determine T_(c₀), we can simply assume that the low-field fluctuation
conductivity above T_(c₀) consists of two contributions, an
Aslamazov-Larkin [21] (AL) term resulting from the superconducting
fluctuations and a Maki-Thompson [22,23] (MT) term arising from the
interactions of normal excitations with those fluctuations. The
fluctuation conductivity is then given by

$$\sigma_{\rm fl}^{2{\rm D}} = \frac{e^{2}}{16\hbar s}\left[\frac{2}{\eta -\delta}\ln\left[\frac{\eta}{\delta}\right] +\eta^{-1}\right],$$

and

$$\sigma_{\rm fl}^{3{\rm D}} = \frac{e^{2}}{32\hbar\,\xi(0)}(4\,\eta^{-1/2} +\,\eta^{-1/2}),$$

for the two- and three-dimensional cases, respectively, where s is the
thickness of the sample, δ is the Maki-Thompson pair-breaking parameter,
η = 1ln [TT_(c)] ≈ (T − T_(c))/T_(c), and ξ(0) is the zero-temperature
coherence length. From a fit of the zero-field fluctuation conductivity
data to Eqs. (5) or (6), respectively, T_(c) = T_(c₀) can be determined.

We performed the scaling analysis for the optimally doped sample with
T_(c) ≈ 22 K. In order to obtain the fluctuation conductivity
$\sigma_{\rm fl}$(T,H), the normal state conductivity was subtracted
from the measured conductivity, with the normal state conductivity being
defined from a polynomial fit of the resistivity data for the highest
field in the temperature interval above the turning point in ρ_(ab)(T)
that was extrapolated to lower temperatures while taking into account
the small magnetoresistance in the normal state for each field.

A least squares analysis of the scaling data sets for the 2D and 3D
cases, respectively, revealed that the 3D case gives a better
description for our data. Therefore, we fitted our zero-field data to
Eq. (6) in order to determine the mean field transition temperature
T_(c₀) and obtained a T_(c₀) value of (21.9 ± 0.1) K. Figure 5 shows the
fluctuation conductivity scaled according to Eq. (2) for applied
magnetic fields between 20 and 40 kOe in steps of 5 kOe. The scalings
are shown down to temperatures corresponding to a drop in the resistive
transition of about 75

Figure 4: Magnetic field H dependence of the glass transition
temperature T_(G) (squares) and of the characteristic temperature T^(⋆)
(circles) for the Nd_(1.85)Ce_(0.15)CuO_(4 → δ) film with T_(c) ≈ 22 K
and H ∥ c, in a log-log plot of the magnetic field H vs the reduced
temperature 1 − T/T_(c) . The solid lines represent power-law fits to
the data.

The scaling analysis of $\sigma_{\rm fl}(T,H)$ yields a zero-field value
for the upper critical field H_(c₂)(0) of (80 ± 5) kOe which corresponds
to an initial slope of the upper critical field vs temperature curve
(dH_(c₂)/dT)|_(T − T_(c₂)) = (− 3.7 ± 0.3) kOe/K. From the expression
H_(c₂)^(⋆)(0) = 0.697_(c₀)(dH_(c₂)^(⋆)/dT)|_(T − T_(c₀)) for the orbital
critical field H_(c₂)^(⋆) of a type-II superconductor in the dirty limit
at T = 0,[24-26] we obtain H_(c₂)^(⋆)(0) = (55 ± 3) kOe. It is
interesting to note that the application of the scaling analysis,
assuming the condition (4) to be fulfilled, results –as expected– in a
linear T_(c)(H) dependence with a slope of − 3.6 kOe/K.

From the H_(c₂)(0) value we deduce an in-plane zero-temperature
coherence length ξ_(ab)(0) of (64 ± 2) A which is in good agreement with
previous results on NCCO films with T_(c) = 20 K.[27] These results,
together with the field dependent glass transition temperatures
T_(G)(H), were used to construct the H-T phase diagram shown in Fig. 6
which represents the main result of this work.

We now turn to the results for the oxygen-deficient and overoxygenated
samples, respectively. Figures 7 and 8 show the temperature dependence
of the in-plane resisitivity ρ_(ab)(T) in different applied fields H∥c
and H⊥c for these films. We attempted to perform a scaling analysis of
the low resistivity data for the films with reduced T_(c)’s analogous to
the one presented above for the optimally doped sample. However, we were
not able to observe clear evidence for the existence of a vortex-glass
transition. The temperature dependence of the inverse logarithmic
temperature derivative of the resistivity is either not linear at all or
exhibits complicated structures with multiple turning points and no
apparent monotonic correlation of the slopes and intersections (i.e.,
the critical exponents and glass transition temperatures) with the
magnetic field. This behavior is rather surprising considering the fact
that the samples with decreased or enhanced oxygen content should
exhibit a higher degree of disorder compared to the optimally doped
material, i.e., the vortex-glass characteristics should be even more
pronounced. At this point, we are unable to give an explanation of this
phenomenon.

In this context it is interesting to note that similar attempts to
analyze resistivity data on oxygen-deficient YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) films in
the framework of the vortex-glass model were unsuccessful, except for
samples with an oxygen content 7-δ that lies in one of the T_(c)(δ)
plateaus around 60 and 90 K, respectively, where the oxygen subsystem is
known to be ordered.[28]

Figure 8 reveals that an anomaly in ρ_(ab) develops with increasing
field H∥c for the overoxygenated film which manifests itself as a change
in curvature in ρ_(ab)(T) from positive to negative for H≈ 12 kOe
becoming more pronounced for H≈ 20 kOe. For fields above 20 kOe, an
upturn in ρ_(ab)(T) below ∼ 2 K produces a minimum in ρ_(ab)(T), which
at lower temperatures (T≈ 0.6 K) is followed by an abrupt drop in
ρ_(ab)(T). The position of the onset of this drop, marked by a local
maximum in the resistivity, is only slightly affected by the increasing
field. What is striking about this peculiar behavior is the fact that it
resembles the anomalies

Figure 6: Magnetic field H vs temperature T phase diagram for the
Nd_(1.85)Ce_(0.15)CuO_(4 − δ) film with T_(c) ≈ 22 K and H∥c. Solid
circles represent the vortex-glass transition temperature T_(G)(H),
while open circles denote the characteristic temperature T^(⋆), where
the data start to deviate from critical behavior. The solid and dashed
lines are fits to power laws H(T_(G))∝[1 −T_(G)(H)/T_(c₀)]^(2.0) and
H(T^(⋆))≈[1 −T^(⋆)(H)/T_(c₀)]^(1.7), respectively. Squares mark the
zero-field transition temperature T_(c₀), and the zero-temperature
orbital critical field H_(c₂)^(⋆)(0), respectively. The dashed area
indicates the region where the mean field upper superconducting
transition is expected.

Figure 7: Temperature dependence of the electrical resistivity ρ_(ab)(T)
for the deoxygenated Nd_(1.85)Ce_(0.15)CuO_(4 − δ) film with T_(c) ≈ 15
K. (a) H∥c. The external magnetic field H for the different ρ_(ab)(T)
curves is varied from 0 to 30 kOe in steps of 2.5 kOe. (b) H⊥c. The
external magnetic field H for the different ρ_(ab)(T) curves is 0, 5,
20, 40, 60, and 80 kOe, respectively.

reported for Nd_(2 − x)Ce_(x)CuO_(4 − δ) single crystals with varying Ce
concentration and reduced _T_c’s (Ref. [13]) extremely closely,
especially in the case of a crystal with _T_c 11 K, where the agreement
is semiquantitative. For _H_L _c’_, there is no hint of the existence of
an anomaly in the accessible temperature and field range, in accordance
with the results for the single crystals.

A possible scenario that was previously suggested to account for two
distinct transitions observed in the current-voltage characteristics of
disordered YBa₂Cu₃O₇ crystals [29] assumes a melting transition at
higher temperatures followed by a glass transition at lower
temperatures, with an intermediate "vortex slush" regime characterized
by short-range crystalline order of the vortex system and the absence of
long-range coherence. The first-order melting transition should only
occur in samples with small amounts of disorder where a regular flux
line lattice can develop which is then destroyed upon melting due to
large thermal fluctuations of the vortex positions. On the other hand,
quenched disorder and associated pinning are responsible for the
destruction of the long-range translational order within the vortex
system and for the vortex glass transition. Therefore, the strength of
the disorder has to be intermediate in order for both transitions to be
observable. In the Nd_(1.85)Ce_(0.15)CuO_(4 + δ) system, fluctuations in
both the local Ce and oxygen distribution, which are believed to
increase upon doping the system away from its optimum stoichiometry by
varying either the cerium concentration or the oxygen content, are
likely to contribute to the disorder. Therefore, samples with reduced
_T_c’s should be characterized by enhanced disorder compared to those
with optimum _T_c, which should suppress a melting transition, if
present. In addition, films should exhibit a higher degree of disorder
compared to single crystals due to their polycrystalline structure, thus
being less likely to undergo a first-order melting transition. The
astonishing similarity of the anomaly for the two types of samples,
therefore, seems to speak against the possibility of such a transition
being responsible for the anomaly.

An alternative interpretation of the two transitions as the
manifestation of granularity, where the samples are considered to
consist of superconducting structural units ("grains") separated by
regions with reduced critical current density and/or _T_c or by
nonsuperconducting material, has been used to explain the double
resistive transitions in polycrystalline Sm_(2 − x)Ce_(x)CuO_(4 − γ).
[30, 31] In this picture, the higher temperature transition would be due
to the grains becoming superconducting while still being decoupled, and
the lower transition would be due to the onset of intergranular phase
coherence throughout the sample. The application of this concept to the
case of the thin films seems justified in the light of their
polycrystalline nature, and the inherent cationic (Ce) and anionic (O)
disorder of the Nd_(2 − x)Ce_(x)CuO_(4 ± δ) material could be
responsible for some sort of intrinsic granularity in the crystals.
However, the fact that in our experiments the upper transition shifts to
lower temperatures with increasing external magnetic field, while the
lower transition is hardly affected, is opposite to what is expected for
granular systems, where the intergranular critical current densities
should be lower than the intragranular ones and decrease faster with
field. Therefore, granular effects are very unlikely to be the origin of
the observed anomaly.

Finally, we note that the temperature interval in which the anomaly in
r_(b)(_T_) starts to develop is very close to the temperature where the
Nd³⁺ ions are known to order antiferromagnetically in
Nd_(1.85)Ce_(0.15)CuO_(4 − δ). [32] This observation leads to another
possible scenario; namely, reentrant behavior induced by magnetic order.
[33] It is interesting to note that the anomaly is not observed for the
optimum doped and the deoxygenated films with _T_c 15 K, that it becomes
more pronounced for single crystals with lower _T_c’s, [13] and that it
appears to be extremely similar for the film with _T_c 10 K and a
crystal with _T_c 11 K, thus suggesting a systematic development of the
anomaly with decreasing _T_c . Further investigation of a possible
correlation of magnetic order with the reentrant anomaly will be
undertaken.

## IV Summary

From our analysis of the resistive transitions r_(b)(_T_) of
superconducting thin films of Nd_(1.85)Ce_(0.15)CuO_(4 ± δ) with
different oxygen contents we were able to demonstrate the existence of a
vortex-glass transition for an optimally doped film with a _T_c of 22 K.
The melting line determined by the vortex-glass transition temperature
T_(G)(_H_) exhibits a power-law dependence H(T_(G))
[1 − T_(G)(H)/T_(c₀)] [20]. From a scaling analysis of the fluctuation
conductivity we deduced the zero-field transition temperature _T__c 0 =_
(21.9 +- 0.1) K, the zero

Figure 8: Temperature dependence of the electrical resistivity
r_(b)(_T_) for the overoxygenated Nd_(1.85)Ce_(0.15)CuO_(4 + δ) film
with _T_c 10 K. (a) _H_L _c._ The external magnetic field H for the
different r_(b)(_T_) curves is 0, 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12, 14, 16, 18, 20,
22, 24, 26, 30, 40, and 60 k0e, respectively. (b) _H_L c. The external
magnetic field H for the different r_(b)(_T_) curves is 0, 2, 10, 40,
60, and 80 kOe, respectively.

temperature upper critical field H_(c₂)(0) = (80 ± 5) kOe, and the
in-plane zero-temperature coherence length ξ_(ab)(0) = (64 ± 2) A. For
$H\|_{\cal C}$, this film undergoes a magnetic field tuned
superconductor-insulator transition with a possible intermediate
metallic state. For an overoxygenated film with T_(c) ≈ 10 K we observe
a characteristic low temperature (T ≈ 2 K) anomaly in ρ_(ab)(T) for
$H\|_{\cal C}$ that closely resembles the behavior found in
Nd_(2 − x)Ce_(x)CuO_(4 − δ) single crystals and could be associated with
magnetic ordering of the Nd³⁺ ions.

###### Acknowledgements.

This work was supported by the U.S. Department of Energy under Grant No.
DE-FG03-86ER-45230 and by the National Science Foundation under Grant
No. DMR-9209668. J.H. acknowledges support from DAAD.

## References

* [1] W. Jiang, S. N. Mao, X. X. Xi, X. Jiang, J. L. Peng, T.
Venkatesan, C. J. Lobb, and R. L. Greene, Phys. Rev. Lett. **73**, 1291
(1994). * [2] Y. Tokura, H. Takagi, and S. Uchida, Nature **337**, 345
(1989). * [3] H. Takagi, S. Uchida, and Y. Tokura, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**62**, 1197 (1989). * [4] G. Blatter, M. V. Feigel’man, V. B.
Geshkenbein, A. I. Larkin, and V. M. Vinokur, Rev. Mod. Phys. **66**,
1125 (1994). * [5] H. Safar, P. L. Gammel, D. A. Huse, D. J. Bishop, W.
C. Lee, J. Giapintzakis, and D. M. Ginsberg, Phys. Rev. Lett. **70**,
3800 (1993). * [6] M. V. Feigel’man, V. B. Geshkenbein, and A. I.
Larkin, Physica C **167**, 177 (1990). * [7] D. S. Fisher, M. P. A.
Fisher, and D. A. Huse, Phys. Rev. B **43**, 130 (1991). * [8] R. H.
Koch, V. Foglietti, W. J. Gallagher, G. Koren, A. Gupta, and M. P. A.
Fisher, Phys. Rev. Lett. **63**, 1511 (1989). * [9] P. L. Gammel, L. F.
Schneemeyer, and D. J. Bishop, Phys. Rev. Lett. **66**, 953 (1991). *
[10] H. Safar, P. L. Gammel, D. J. Bishop, D. B. Mitzi, and A.
Kapitulnik, Phys. Rev. Lett. **68**, 2672 (1992). * [11] N.-C. Yeh, W.
Jiang, D. S. Reed, A. Gupta, F. Holtzberg, and A. Kussmaul, Phys. Rev. B
**45**, 5710 (1992). * [12] J. M. Roberts, B. Brown, J. Tate, X. X. Xi,
and S. N. Mao, Phys. Rev. B **51**, 15 281 (1995). * [13] M. C. de
Andrade, Y. Dalichaouch, and M. B. Maple, Phys. Rev. B **48**, 16 737
(1993). * [14] S. N. Mao, X. X. Xi, S. Bhattacharya, Q. Li, T.
Venkatesan, J. L. Peng, R. L. Greene, J. Mao, D. H. Wu, and S. M.
Anlage, Appl. Phys. Lett. **61**, 2357 (1992). * [15] S. Tsanda, S.
Ohzeki, and T. Nakayama, Phys. Rev. Lett. **69**, 530 (1992). * [16] U.
Welp, S. Fleshler, W. K. Kwok, R. A. Klemm, V. M. Vinokur, J. Downey, B.
Veal, and G. W. Crabtree, Phys. Rev. Lett. **67**, 3180 (1991). * [17]
S. H. Han, C. C. Almasan, M. C. de Andrade, Y. Dalichaouch, and M. B.
Maple, Phys. Rev. B **46**, 14 290 (1992). * [18] M. A. Crusellas, J.
Fontcuberta, and S. Pinol, Physica C **213**, 403 (1992). * [19] S.
Ullah and A. T. Dorsey, Phys. Rev. Lett. **65**, 2066 (1990). * [20] S.
Ullah and A. T. Dorsey, Phys. Rev. B **44**, 262 (1991). * [21] L. G.
Azlamazov and A. I. Larkin, Fiz. Tverd. Tela (Leningrad) **10**, 1104
(1968) [Sov. Phys. Solid State **10**, 875 (1968)]. * [22] K. Maki,
Prog. Theor. Phys. **39**, 897 (1968). * [23] R. S. Thompson, Phys. Rev.
B **1**, 327 (1970). * [24] K. Maki, Physics **1**, 21 (1964). * [25] P.
G. de Gennes, Phys. Kondens. Mat. **3**, 79 (1964). * [26] N. R.
Werthamer, E. Helfand, and P. C. Hohenberg, Phys. Rev **147**, 295
(1966). * [27] A. Kussmaul, J. S. Moodera, and P. M. Tedrow, Physica C
**203**, 16 (1992). * [28] M. McElfresh (private communication). * [29]
T. K. Worthington, M. P. A. Fisher, D. A. Huse, J. Toner, A. D. Marwick,
T. Zabel, C. A. Feild, and F. Holtzberg, Phys. Rev. B **46**, 11 854
(1992). * [30] E. A. Early, C. C. Almasan, R. F. Jardim, and M. B.
Maple, Phys. Rev. B **47**, 433 (1993). * [31] R. F. Jardim, M. C. de
Andrade, E. A. Early, M. B. Maple, and D. Stroud, Physica C **232**, 145
(1994). * [32] J. W. Lynn, I. W. Sumarlin, S. Skanthakumar, W.-H. Li, R.
N. Shelton, J. L. Peng, Z. Fisk, and S.-W. Cheong, Phys. Rev. B **41**,
2569 (1990). * [33]_Superconductivity in Ternary Compounds:
Superconductivity and Magnetism_, edited by M. B. Maple and $\O$.
Fischer, Topics in Current Physics, Vol. 34 (Springer-Verlag, Berlin,
1982).
