**Suppression of the superconducting transition temperature T_(c) around
x∼0.115 in La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄**

M. Maki, M. Sera, M. Hiroi, and N. Kobayashi

_Institute for Materials Research, Tohoku University, Sendai 980, Japan_

Received 25 July 1995

###### Abstract

Detailed studies of the superconducting diamagnetism of
La_(2 − x − y)Nd_(y)Sr_(x)CuO₄ show that the characteristic
concentration $x_{\rm dip}$ at which the largest T_(c) suppression is
observed changes from 0.115 to 0.125 on Nd doping around y∼0.12, above
which the structural transition to the low-temperature tetragonal (LTT)
phase is observed. This indicates that also in La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄, the
$x_{\rm dip}$ value is, in principle, also $\frac{1}{8}$ as in
La_(2 − x)Ba_(x)CuO₄. We propose that the largest T_(c) suppression
around x∼0.115 in La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄ is the result of the existence of
two competitive factors. One is the local distortion expanding the LTT
region around the Sr²⁺ ion, which is largest at x = $\frac{1}{8}$ and
acts to suppress T_(c). The other is the antiferromagnetic spin
fluctuation energy, which might increase with x and acts to increase
T_(c). On Nd doping, the former factor becomes larger around x = 0.125
than around x = 0.115 and the $x_{\rm dip}$ value moves to 0.125.

It is well known that suppression of T_(c) is observed in a narrow x
region around $\frac{1}{8}$ in La_(2 − x)Ba_(x)CuO₄ (Ref. 1) and in the
rare-earth-doped La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄. [2, 3] Although extensive studies
have been performed on this subject, its origin still remains to be
solved. [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10] These compounds exhibit a
structural transition at T_(d2) from the LTO1 (low-temperature
orthorhombic 1, space group _Bmab_) to LTT (low-temperature tetragonal,
space group _P4₂/ncm_) or LTO2 (low-temperature orthorhombic 2, space
group _Pccn_) phase around x∼$\frac{1}{8}$. [4] In La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄,
unlike La_(2 − x)Ba_(x)CuO₄, the T_(c) suppression appears centered
around x∼0.115, which was clarified in the Zn-doped samples by Koike _et
al._, [11] and muon spin resonance (μSR) and nuclear quadrupole
resonance (NOR) experiments exhibited antiferromagnetic (AF) ordering
centered around x∼0.115, [12, 13, 14] while the AF ordering in
La_(2 − x)Ba_(x)CuO₄ is observed centered around x∼0.125. [15, 16] Thus
the x value where the anomalous T_(c) suppression is observed is
different between La_(2 − x)Ba_(x)CuO₄ and La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄.
Furthermore, in La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄, the system is in the LTO1 phase
down to low temperatures, while signs of the structural transition to
the LTT phase were observed below ∼10 K around x∼0.12 by studies of the
ultrasonic sound velocity. [17] We define the x value where the largest
T_(c) suppression is observed as the $x_{\rm dip}$ value. The origin of
the different $x_{\rm dip}$ values between La_(2 − x)Ba_(x)CuO₄ and
La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄ is still unknown. In order to clarify the origin of
the T_(c) suppression centered around x∼0.115 in La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄,
we have performed detailed studies of the superconducting diamagnetism
of samples with low T_(d2) in the La_(2 − x − y)Nd_(y)Sr_(x)CuO₄ system.
In this system, the critical concentration y_(c) above which the
structural transition to the LTT phase appears at low temperatures is
∼0.12, which is relatively high compared with those of the Sm-, Eu-, and
Gd-doped systems, and T_(d2) can be as low as ∼30 K. [18]

In our previous paper, [18] we proposed the following mechanism for the
structural transition from the LTO1 to the LTT phase. Two LTT (or LTO2)
and two LTO1 regions are induced around the doped ion by superposition
of the isotropic distortion of the CuO₆ octahedra around the doped ion
and the cooperative tilts of the CuO₆ octahedra in the LTO1 phase. The
structural transition to the LLT phase takes place when the LTT region
is connected by percolation in a whole area of the crystal. Coexistence
of the LTT and LTO1 regions is inevitable.

In this paper, we show that in La_(2 − x − y)Nd_(y)Sr_(x)CuO₄, the
$x_{\rm dip}$ value changes from x = 0.115 to 0.125 around t∼ 0.12,
above which the structural transition to the LTT phase appears. This
indicates that the $x_{\rm dip}$ value is, in principle, $\frac{1}{8}$
also in La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄ and the origin of $x_{\rm dip}$∼0.115 in
La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄ is the result of the existence of two competitive
factors.

All the samples were sintered ones prepared by a standard solid-state
reaction method mentioned elsewhere. [10] The dc magnetization
measurement was carried out using a superconducting quantum interference
device (SQUID) magnetometer. The thermal conductivity was measured by
the usual steady-state method.

Figure 1 shows the temperature dependence of the thermal conductivity κ
of La_(1.875 − y)Nd_(0.125)Sr_(x)CuO₄. A small enhancement or kink is
observed in κ below ∼30 K in the

Figure 1: Temperature dependence of the thermal conductivity of
La_(1.875 − y)Nd_(y)Sr_(0.115)CuO₄. The origin of the y axis is shifted
by 10 mW/K cm for each curve. The arrows indicate the structural
transition temperature.

samples with 0.115 ≈x≈0.18, as shown by the arrows. This anomaly of κ
originates in the structural transition to the LTT phase. Previously, we
reported that the structural transition to the LTT phase appears at low
temperatures above y^(∼)^(∼)¹ in La_(1.875 − y)Nd_(y)Sr_(0.125)CuO₄
(Ref. [18]) and the enhancement of κ below T_(d2) increases with y up to
∼0.2, where it is much larger and more pronounced than those of the
present samples with y = 0.125.[19] In the samples with x = 0.11 and
0.2, no anomaly is seen in the temperature dependence of κ, which
indicates that the structural transition does not exist in these
samples.

Figures 2-5 show the temperature dependence of the magnetic
susceptibility M/H of La_(1.885 − y)Nd_(y)Sr_(0.115)CuO₄,
La_(1.875 − y)Nd_(y)Sr_(0.125)CuO₄, La_(2. − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄, and
La_(1.875 − y)Nd_(0.125)Sr_(x)CuO₄, respectively. These results show
that two superconducting transitions exist in
La_(2 − x − y)Nd_(y)Sr_(x)CuO₄ above y∼0.125 and in a narrow x region
between 0.115 and 0.135. We define the lower and higher T_(c) as
T_(c)^(l) and T_(c)^(k), respectively. In
La_(1.875 − y)Nd_(0.125)Sr_(x)CuO₄, the x value of 0.115 corresponds to
the smallest x concentration where the structural transition to the LTT
phase appears, as shown in Fig. 1. This indicates that the above
anomalous behavior of the M/H-T curve should be attributed to the
entrance into the LTT phase. Previously, we showed that the coexistence
of the LTT and LT01 regions is inevitable below T_(d2),[18] and we
propose that T_(c)^(l) and T_(c)^(k) and the T_(c)^(c)’s of the LTT and
LT01 regions, respectively. When T_(d2) is low, a comparable LT01 region
coexists with the LTT region below T_(d2) because the distortion around
the substituted ion does not extend far. The existence of two
superconducting phases is the result of competition between the size of
the LTT or LT01 regions and the short superconducting coherence length
in the present high-T_(c) cuprates, which depends on x. The present
results suggest that the volume fraction of the LTT region increases and
that of the LT01 region decreases rapidly with further increase of y
above 0.125.

Here, we discuss the possibility of site-selective substitution in the
La-Sr or La-Ba system. The ionic radius of Sr²⁺ is larger than that of
La³⁺. Thus, it is expected that each Sr²⁺ ion is substituted in
isolation from other Sr²⁺ ions, because

Figure 4: Temperature dependence of the field-cooled magnetic
susceptibility (measured at H = 20 Oe) of La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄.

Figure 5: Temperature dependence of the field-cooled magnetic
susceptibility (measured at H = 20 Oe) of
La_(1.875 − y)Nd_(0.125)Sr_(x)CuO₄.

Figure 3: Temperature dependence of the field-cooled magnetic
susceptibility (measured at H = 20 Oe) of
La_(1.885 − y)Nd_(y)Sr_(0.125)CuO₄.

Figure 2: Temperature dependence of the field-cooled magnetic
susceptibility (measured at H = 20 Oe) of
La_(1.885 − y)Nd_(y)Sr_(0.115)CuO₄.

of the difference of the valence and ionic radius between the La³⁺ and
Sr²⁺ ions. When Nd³⁺ ions are doped into the La-Sr system, we expect
that S²⁺ and Nd³⁺ ions are substituted as a pair as shown in Fig. 6
because of the smaller ionic radius of Nd³⁺ compared to La³⁺. This
enhances the LTT distortion around the doped ions. This pair may have a
tendency to order so as to make the volume fraction of the LTT region
maximum when $x\!=\!\frac{1}{s}$. In La_(2 − x)Ba_(x)CuO₄, the ionic
radius of Ba²⁺ is much larger than that of La³⁺ compared to that of Sr²⁺
and the local distortion around Ba²⁺ is large enough to induce the
structural transition to the LTT phase. On the other hand, in
La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄, the difference of the ionic radius between the
Sr²⁺ and La³⁺ ions is not so large that the Sr doping can induce the
macroscopic structural transition by itself. However, if Nd³⁺ ions are
doped, the local distortion around Sr²⁺ is enhanced by the above
proposed pairing substitution and the structural transition is induced.
However, in La_(1.75)Nd_(0.125)Sr_(0.125)CuO₄, T_(d2) is ∼30 K, which is
half of the value of ∼65 K in La_(1.875)Ba_(0.125)CuO₄. This means that
the range where the local lattice distortion, i.e., the LTT region,
around the substituted ion extends is rather smaller in the former than
in the latter. Because of this difference, the volume fraction of the
LTT region at the lowest temperature may be a few times larger in
La_(1.875)Ba_(0.125)CuO₄ than in La_(1.75)Nd_(0.125)Sr_(0.125)CuO₄. In
La_(1.875 − y)Nd_(y)Sr_(0.125)CuO₄, with further increase of y above
0.125, Nd³⁺ ions may be substituted near Sr²⁺ ions in the same LaO
layer, which also enhances the local distortion around the Sr²⁺ ions and
such a region where the local distortion is large becomes the core of
the LTT region. Thus the LTT region expands with further increase of y.
In this way, in the La-Sr or La-Ba system, site-selective substitution
possibly plays an important role in various physical properties. La-site
or Cu-site substitution effects in these systems should be reexamined
carefully from this point of view. We note that if both x and y are
smaller than ∼0.11, the LTT region is not connected in a whole area of
the crystal by percolation.

Figure 7(a) shows the y dependence of T_(c)^(h), T_(c)^(l), and T_(d2)
of La_(1.885 − y)Nd_(y)Sr_(0.115)CuO₄ and
La_(1.875 − y)Nd_(y)Sr_(0.125)CuO₄. T_(d2) is determined from
measurements of κ. This figure clearly shows that the superconducting
properties are very different below and above y ∼ 0.12 between the
samples with x = 0.115 and those with x = 0.125. In the small-y region,
T_(c)^(h) is higher in the samples with x = 0.125 than in those with
x = 0.115. However, T_(c)^(h) of the samples with x = 0.125 begins to
decrease with y above ∼ 0.06 and almost coincides with that for
x = 0.115 at y = 0.1. Above y ∼ 0.115, T_(c)^(l) appears, and is clearly
related to the appearance of the LTT phase. Although T_(c)^(h) does not
change very much even above y ∼ 0.125 in either system, T_(c)^(l) shows
a clear difference between these two systems. T_(c)^(l) of the samples
with x = 0.125 is lower than for those with x = 0.115 for x > 0.125.
This difference should be related to the difference of T_(d2) between
the two systems as shown in Fig. 7(a). That is, the existence of the LTT
region is the origin of the lower T_(c)^(l) in the samples with
x = 0.125 above y ∼ 0.12. This is clearly seen in the M/H − T curves of
the y = 0.125 samples with x = 0.115 and 0.125 as shown in Figs. 2 and
3, respectively. In this way, the $x_{\rm dip}$ value in
La_(2 − x − y)Nd_(y)Sr_(x)CuO₄ changes from 0.115 to 0.125 around
y ∼ 0.12, which indicates that in La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄, the
$x_{\rm dip}$ value is, in principle, ♯ is in La_(2 − x)Ba_(x)CuO₄.
Figure 7(b) shows the x dependence of the magnitude of the Meissner
volume fraction at 4.2 K of La_(2 − x − y)Nd_(y)Sr_(x)CuO₄ (y = 0,
0.125, and 0.14). This figure clearly shows that the Meissner volume
fraction exhibits a minimum around x ∼ 0.12, which

Figure 6: Schematic picture of the proposed pair substitution of Sr²⁺
and Nd³⁺ions into La₂CuO₄. The large open circle and small hatched
circle indicate the Sr²⁺ ion and Nd³⁺ ion, respectively. See the text
for details.

is similar to the x dependence of T_(c)^(l) observed for 0.115≈±0.135.
Even in La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄, the minimum of the Meissner volume
fraction at 4.2 K is seen around x∼0.12. This means that even if the
system is in the LTO1 phase, the superconducting state is greatly
influenced around x∼0.12. This is more easily seen in the magnetic
susceptibility of La_(1.775)Nd_(0.1)Sr_(0.125)CuO₄. In this sample,
although the macroscopic transition to the LTT phase does not exist, a
small kink is observed at ∼22 K in the M/H-T curve, which is a sign of
the existence of T_(c)^(l) and suggests the existence of a local LTT
region with an appropriate size even in the LTO1 phase.

Next, we discuss the origin of the suppression of T_(c) around
x∼$\frac{1}{8}$. Which is more important for the anomalous T_(c)
suppression: the carrier concentration of x∼$\frac{1}{8}$ or the lattice
distortion induced by Sr or Ba doping with x∼$\frac{1}{8}$? The present
results show that the superconducting properties change drastically
accompanying the appearance of the LTT phase. In the samples with x =
0.125, T_(c) decreases rapidly above y∼0.06, and above y∼0.125 T_(c)^(l)
is lower than that of the sample with x = 0.115 as shown in Fig. 7(a).
It is difficult to imagine that the carrier concentration is changed
abruptly by the Nd doping above y∼0.06 only in the samples with x =
0.125. It is natural to ascribe the change to the enhancement of the
lattice distortion induced by the Nd doping, which is larger in the
system with x = 0.125 than in the system with x = 0.115. That is, the Sr
concentration of x∼$\frac{1}{8}$ is more important for the T_(c)
suppression around x∼$\frac{1}{8}$ than the carrier concentration of
x∼$\frac{1}{8}$. We propose that Sr²⁺ ions have a tendency to order as
one Sr²⁺ ion for 4×4 La sites and the LTT region around the Sr²⁺ ion is
most easily connected by percolation when x = $\frac{1}{8}$. The shift
of the $x_{\rm dip}$ value from 0.115 to 0.125 caused by the Nd doping
indicates the existence of two competitive factors. One suppresses T_(c)
the most at x∼$\frac{1}{8}$ and the other increases T_(c) with
increasing x. The origin of the former factor is the existence of the
LTT phase whose volume fraction is largest around x∼$\frac{1}{8}$. As
the origin of the latter factor, the increase of the antiferromagnetic
spin fluctuation energy Γ_(Q) or the superconducting coherence length
with an increase of x can be considered. Here, we discuss the importance
of the AF spin fluctuation. Kitaoka _et al._ discussed the importance of
Γ_(Q) based on the results for (T₁T)⁻¹ of ⁶³Cu in La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄.
[20] Here, T₁ is the nuclear spin-lattice relaxation time. Tou _et al._
reported that 1/T₁ of Cu in La_(2 − x)Ba_(x)CuO₄ increases below T_(d2),
showing a tendency to diverge toward T_(N)∼35 K in a sample with x =
0.125,[21] which indicates that the AF spin fluctuation is drastically
affected by the structural transition around x∼$\frac{1}{8}$. These
results indicate that Γ_(Q) decreases below T_(d2). The AF ordering is
observed only around x = $\frac{1}{2}$ where the volume fraction of the
LTT region is largest. In the LTT phase where the LTT and LTO1 regions
coexist, Γ_(Q) is expected to be smaller in the LTT region than in the
LTO1 region. This may be related to the existence of two superconducting
transition temperatures T_(c)^(l) and T_(c)^(h) in the present system.
That is, T_(c)^(l) and T_(c)^(h) are the T_(c)’s in the LTT and LTO1
regions, respectively. In La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄, local LTT regions are
expected to exist above x∼0.11 and are largest at x∼$\frac{1}{8}$ , and
the LTT distortion effect suppressing T_(c) should be largest at
x∼$\frac{1}{8}$. However, this distortion effect is not very large
because of the small difference of the ionic radius between La³⁺ and
Sr²⁺ ions. On the other hand, Γ_(Q) is expected to increase with x. It
is expected that the smaller the x value, the more easily Γ_(Q) is
affected by the LTT distortion. As a result of these two competing
effects, the $x_{\rm dip}$ value is observed around x∼0.115 in
La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄. It is noted that when x is smaller than 0.11, the
LTT distortion effect is very small as mentioned above. In
La_(2 − x)-Nd_(x)Sr_(x)CuO₄ or La_(2 − x)Ba_(x)CuO₄, the LTT distortion
effect induced by the doped ion is large enough to greatly suppress
Γ_(Q) at x∼$\frac{1}{8}$. In this way, the shift of the $x_{\rm dip}$
value from 0.115 to 0.125 on Nd doping in La_(2 − x)-Nd_(x)Sr_(x)CuO₄
can be understood as the result of the existence of two factors. The
x-dependent coherence length may also correlate with the shift of the
$x_{\rm dip}$ value.

Recently, the possibility that the stripe correlations of spins and
holes play an essential role in the T_(c) suppression around
x∼$\frac{1}{8}$ was discussed based on neutron diffraction experiments
on La_(1.6 − x)Nd_(0.4)Sr_(x)CuO₄ (x∼ 0.12).[22] At present, we do not
know if the same situation is realized in samples with smaller y values,
i.e., lower T_(d2). However, as pointed out by the authors of Ref. [22],
even in the LTO1 phase, similar stripe correlations as in the LTT phase
can possibly be realized dynamically and the present results should be
examined from this point of view. Neutron-scattering experiments on
samples with low T_(d2) in La_(2 − x − y)Nd_(y)Sr_(x)CuO₄ are desirable.

We are thankful to Dr. T. Nishizaki for the help in using the SQUID
magnetometer and to T. Otomo, H. Miura, S. Tanno, Y. Ishigami, and K.
Hosokura of the Tohoku University Cryogenic Center. The present work is
partly supported by Kasuya Research Foundation.

## References

* [1] A. R. Moodenbaugh _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **38**, 4569 (1988). *
[2] M. K. Crawford _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **44**, 7749 (1991). * [3] B.
Buchner _et al._, Physica C **185-189**, 903 (1991). * [4] J. D. Axe _et
al._, IBM J. Res. Dev. **33**, 382 (1989). * [5] M. Sera _et al._, Solid
State Commun. **69**, 851 (1989). * [6] T. Suzuki _et al._, J. Phys.
Soc. Jpn. **58**, 1883 (1989). * [7] M. Sera _et al._, Solid State
Commun. **76**, 923 (1990). * [8] B. Buchner _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**73**, 1841 (1994). * [9] T. Suzuki _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **49**, 12
392 (1994). * [10] J. Yamada _et al._, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **63**, 2314
(1994). * [11] Y. Koike _et al._, Solid State Commun. **82**, 889
(1992). * [12] K. Kawano _et al._, Physica B **194-196**, 351 (1994). *
[13] S. Ohsugi _et al._, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **63**, 2057 (1994). * [14]
T. Goto _et al._, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **63**, 3494 (1994). * [15] K.
Kumagai _et al._, Physica C **185-189**, 913 (1991). * [16] G. M. Luke
_et al._, Physica C **184-189**, 1175 (1991). * [17] T. Fukase _et al._,
Jpn. J. Appl. Phys. **7**, 213 (1992). * [18] M. Sera _et al._, Phys.
Rev. B. **52**, 735 (1995). * [19] M. Sera (unpublished). * [20] Y.
Kitaoka _et al._, Jpn. J. Appl. Phys. **7**, 185 (1992). * [21] H. Tou
_et al._, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **62**, 1474 (1993). * [22] J. M. Tranquada
_et al._, Nature **375**, 561 (1995).
