Control of T_(c) for Ni-substituted YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) by annealing
treatments

S. Adachi, Y. Itoh, T. Machi, E. Kandyel,* S. Tajima, and N. Koshizuka

Superconductivity Research Laboratory, ISTEC, 1-10-13 Shinonome,
Koto-ku, Tokyo 135-0062, Japan

###### Abstract

Effects of annealing treatments on T_(c) of Ni-substituted
YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) have been studied. Ceramic samples of
YBa₂Cu_(3 − x)Ni_(x)O_(7 − δ) (x = 0.00, 0.02, 0.05, and 0.10) prepared
in 1-atom oxygen atmosphere were annealed at 800-1000 degC in various
atmospheres with different oxygen partial pressures, and subsequently
oxygenated below 550 degC. The lower the oxygen partial pressure, the
lower the T_(c). For the samples with a fixed x but different T_(c)’s,
no appreciable difference in lattice parameters and oxygen contents was
observed. The results clearly indicate that the T_(c) of Ni-substituted
YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) can be controlled by changing the oxygen partial
pressure during annealing treatment. It is likely that the distribution
of Ni atoms between the chain and plane sites can be altered by the
annealing treatment.

2000-II

## 1 Introduction

Since the discovery of high-T_(c) cuprate superconductors, much effort
has been devoted on the transition-metal substitution effects on their
physical properties.[1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15,
16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25] Especially, the Ni and Zn
substitution effects are very interesting because of the contrast in
magnetism of the substituents.[5, 15, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 25, 29, 30,
37, 38] The previous reports on the YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) superconductor
informed that Zn suppresses T_(c) most significantly among the examined
transition metals and the effect of T_(c) suppression by Ni substitution
is weaker.[1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17,
18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25] On these experimental results, some
researchers discussed the role of Cu in the CuO₂ plane, assuming that
both Zn and Ni atoms enter into the Cu(2) (_planes_) site, not into the
Cu(1) (_chain_) one. In fact, Islam and Baetzold[12] suggested that both
Zn and Ni preferentially substitute for the Cu(2) site by energy
calculation using atomistic simulation techniques. Hoffman _et al.[19]_
reported that the substituted Ni were located at the Cu(2) site from
their study of anomalous dispersive x-ray-diffraction measurements.

On the other hand, Howland _et al.[11]_ and Bridges _et al.[13]_
reported a nearly random distribution of Ni atoms at the two Cu sites
from the studies of a differential anomalous x-ray scattering and
x-absorption fine-structure measurements, respectively. The optical
conductivity studies[22, 40] suggested the existence of Ni atoms at
Cu(1) site. The recent Cu-NQR study (where NQR is nuclear quadrupole
resonance) indicated that Ni preferentially goes to the Cu(1) site.[59]
If a considerable amount of Ni atoms were located at the Cu(1) site, it
is likely that the observed weaker effect of Ni substitution on T_(c)
suppression, compared with the case of Zn substitution, is due to a
smaller Ni content in the CuO₂ plane than the total amount of
substituted Ni. Without information about the location of the
substituents, we cannot understand correctly the impurity effects on the
superconductivity. For an ideal way to study the impurity effects on
superconductivity, it is required to produce samples in which Ni atoms
are preferentially substituted for the Cu(2) site in the plane.

The two sites for Cu atoms in the YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) superconductor have
different coordination numbers for oxygen atoms; namely, 2-4 for Cu(1)
and 5 for Cu(2). The former is changed, depending on oxygen content,
7-δ. The diagram of oxygen nonstoichiometry against temperature and
oxygen partial pressure, _p_(O₂), for YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) was well
established by the chemical analysis.[1] More directly, Jorgensen _et
al.[42]_ investigated _in situ_ neutron powder diffraction at elevated
temperatures in various _p_(O₂)’s. Their results indicate that the
occupancy of the oxygen sites next to Cu(1) at a fixed temperature in
the range of 400-900 degC can be controlled by changing _p_(O₂). These
results suggest to us a way to control the chemical potential at Cu(1)
site by tuning the condition of heat treatments. Assuming that the site
selection of substituted Ni is linked with the chemical potential at
Cu(1), we may be able to control the ratio of Ni occupancies at the two
sites by changing the heat-treatment condition, in which temperature is
high enough to move cation atoms but lower for decomposition. It is
expected that the samples with different Ni distribution, if obtained,
show different T_(c) values.

In this work, we prepared successfully YBa₂(Cu,Ni)₃O_(7 − δ) samples
that have the same cation composition, oxygen content, and unit-cell
dimension, but appreciably different T_(c) values. This provides a new
synthetic method for YBa₂(Cu, Ni)₃O_(7 − δ) having different site
occupation of Ni.

## 2 Experiment

Ceramic samples were prepared by a solid-state-reaction method. Y₂O₃,
BaCO₃, CuO, and NiO powders were weighed out at the nominal composition
of YBa₂Cu_(3 − x)Ni_(x)O_(7 − δ) (x = 0.00, 0.02, 0.05, and 0.10) and
thoroughly mixed. The powder mixture was calcined at 860-920 degC for 3
days in air with intermediate grindings. The calcined powders were
pelletized and sintered at 970 degC for 2 days in flowing oxygen gas and
then slowly cooled at a rate of 100 degC/h. The obtained
"as-synthesized" samples were annealed under different conditions as
follows:

(i) at 800 degC for 3 days in flowing nitrogen gas, and then quenched,

(ii) at 800 degC for 14 days in flowing nitrogen gas, and then quenched,

(iii) at 900 degC for 3 days in air, and then quenched,

(iv) at 1000 degC for 3 days in a mixture of 80

The annealing treatment of (iv) was carried out using a hot isostatic
pressing apparatus. The all-annealed samples were finally oxygenated by
heat treatment at 550 degC for 18 days in flowing oxygen gas, and then
slowly cooled at a rate of 50 degC/h.

Structural properties were examined by powder x-ray diffraction (XRD)
using CuK_a_ radiation. The lattice parameters were determined by
calculation using the least-squares method. dc magnetic susceptibility
was measured by cooling samples in an external field of 10 or 20 Oe
using a superconducting quantum interference device magnetometer. The
oxygen contents were determined by a conventional iodometric titration
method, assuming valences for Y, Ba, Ni, and O are +3, +2, +2, and -2,
respectively.

## III Results and Discussion

The as-synthesized samples of YBa2Cu3-_x_Ni,O7-_d_ had single-phase
patterns in XRD spectra. Figure 1(a) shows the XRD patterns of the
samples with various Ni contents, x for 006, 020, and 200 reflections.
The lattice parameters are plotted as a function of x as shown in the
left panels in Fig. 2 (closed circles). With increasing x, the
parameters a and b do not change significantly, whereas the parameter c
clearly decreases. Figure 3(a) shows the temperature dependences of dc
magnetic susceptibility for the as-synthesized samples, indicating quite
sharp superconducting transitions. T_(c) values are lowered with
increasing x, which are plotted in Fig. 4 (closed circles). This x
dependence of T_(c) agrees with the results in the previous reports.[6,
7, 9, 10, 14, 15, 17, 18, 21, 23, 24] The oxygen contents, 7-_d_, for
the as-synthesized samples are 6.92-6.95, indicating that almost full
oxygenation was attained for the samples. The obtained results of
lattice parameters, T_(c) and oxygen content are summarized in Table I.
It is clearly indicated that Ni substitution brings about changes in the
lattice parameters and T_(c).

The annealing treatment (i) was performed on the as-synthesized samples.
According to the dependence of oxygen content on _p_(O2) for various
temperatures reported by Kishio _et al._,[41] this performed annealing
condition, i.e., 800 degC in nitrogen, is critical for phase stability
of YBa2Cu3O7-_d_. However, the obtained samples were of single phase in
XRD patterns and no appreciable decomposition was detected. The XRD
patterns are shown in Fig. 1(b) (the upper-four patterns). We can see
the similar peak positions to those for the as-synthesized samples. The
lattice parameters are plotted as a function of Ni content, x, in the
right panels in Fig. 2 (open circles). No appreciable difference in the
lattice parameters can be seen between the as-synthesized and annealed
(800 degC, 3 days, N2) samples. Oxygen contents for the annealed samples
( 6.93-6.94) were also almost the same as those for the as-synthesized
samples. A clear difference between the two series of samples is seen in
T_(c) suppression. Figure 3(b) shows the temperature dependences of dc
magnetic susceptibility for the annealed samples. T_(c) of the sample
with x = 0.00 is 91 K, which is exactly the same value as that for the
as-synthesized sample with x = 0.00. T_(c) values are lowered with
increasing x. For Ni-substituted samples, T_(c) suppression in the
annealed

Figure 2: Lattice parameters against Ni content x for
YBa2Cu3−_x_Ni,O7−_δ_ samples; as-synthesized (left) and for annealed at
800 °C for 3 days in nitrogen (right).

Figure 1: XRD patterns for YBa2Cu3−_x_Ni,O7−_δ_ samples; (a)
as-synthesized, (b) annealed at 800 °C for 3 or 14 days in nitrogen, (c)
annealed at 1000 °C for 3 days in 400-am oxygen and at 900 °C for 3 days
in air.

samples is more pronounced, compared with the case of the as-synthesized
ones, as shown in Fig. 4 (open circles). It should be noted that two
series of Ni-substituted samples with the same compositions and lattice
parameters exhibited different x dependence of T_(c). This strongly
suggests that the conducted annealing treatment altered the distribution
of substituted Ni; more concretely, the high-temperature annealing in
the reducing atmosphere moved Ni atoms from Cu(1) site to Cu(2) one. The
coordination number of Cu(1) site approaches to 2 by the annealing at
800 degC at a lower _p_(O2).42 The atomic site with twofold coordination
by oxygen is not a suitable one for substituted Ni from the viewpoint of
chemical potential.43 Ni atoms prefer the atomic site with larger
coordination number than Cu atoms.44 Consequently, it is likely that
substituted Ni at the Cu(1) site tends to move to the Cu(2) site.

As mentioned above, the annealing treatment at 800 degC for 3 days in
flowing nitrogen gas could change the x dependence of T_(c) for
YBa2Cu3_-_x_Ni_O7_-_δ_. To check whether the 3-days annealing is enough
to attain an equilibrium condition or not, a longer annealing duration
of 14 days was examined [the annealing treatment (ii)]. The obtained
samples with x = 0.00, 0.02, and 0.05 contained impurities, Ba2Cu3O5+_δ_
(Ref. 45) and Y2BaCu3, 46 as displayed in the XRD patterns of Fig. 5.
This implies that these samples started to decompose at 800 degC in
flowing nitrogen gas. Therefore, the results obtained by the annealing
treatment (i), as described above, are on the samples prepared in a
transient condition. However, we can see in Fig. 5 that the impurity
peaks become weaker with increasing x. The sample with x = 0.10 was of

Figure 4: T_(c) versus Ni content x for as-synthesized and annealed
YBa2Cu3_-_x_Ni_O7_-_δ_ samples.

Figure 3: Temperature dependences of dc magnetic susceptibility for
YBa2Cu3_−_x_Ni_O7_−_δ_ samples; (a) as-synthesized, (b) annealed at 800
°C for 3 or 14 days in nitrogen, (c) annealed at 1000 °C for 3 days in
400-atm oxygen and at 900 °C for 3 days in air.

single phase. This result indicates that the Ni substitution enhances
the phase stability and increases the decomposition temperature. The XRD
peaks of 006, 020, and 200 reflections for the 14-days-annealed sample
with x = 0.10 are located at the same 2_th_ position as those for the
3-days-annealed sample with x = 0.10, as shown in Fig. 1(b) (the lowest
pattern), indicating the same lattice parameters. Moreover, the _Tc_
value of 70 K [see Fig. 3(b)] and the oxygen content of 6.95 are almost
identical to the values for the 3-days-annealed sample. Lattice
parameters, _Tc_ and oxygen content are listed in Table 1. No
appreciable difference is seen between the two 800 degC-annealed samples
with x = 0.10. Therefore, it is concluded that an equilibrium condition
was attained in the 3-days-annealed sample with x = 0.10.

In order to confirm the effect of _p_(O2) during high-temperature
annealing, we attempted annealing treatments in different atmospheres,
i.e., in air (iii) and in a mixture of 80

The present experimental data clearly indicate that _Tc_ of
Ni-substituted YBa2Cu3O7-_d_ can be controlled by varying _p_(O2) during
annealing treatments without changing the lattice parameters and the
oxygen content. As an origin of _Tc_ reduction by the heat treatment in
low _p_(O2), a decrease in hole concentration and the structural change
can be ruled out, because of the unchanged oxygen content and lattice
parameters. A plausible candidate for the change in _Tc_ is a change in
the Ni occupancies at the two Cu sites. In this work, samples were
prepared through three steps as follows: (1) sintering at 970 degC for 2
days in flowing oxygen gas, (2) annealing treatment at 800-1000 degC and
various _p_(O2)’s, and (3) oxygenation at 550 degC in flowing oxygen
gas, accompanied by slow cooling. Phase formation and oxygen absorption
occur at the first and third steps, respectively. At the second step,
cation atoms move to the preferable atomic sites. The _p_(O2) at the
second step must be crucially important to determine the substitution
site of substituted Ni. Therefore, it is highly possible that
substituted Ni atoms are distributed at both two Cu sites in the
as-synthesized samples, and the annealing treatment (of the second step)
at lower _p_(O2) drives substituted Ni atoms from Cu(1) site to Cu(2)
site, giving rise to a stronger pair breaking effect in the predominant
superconducting layers.

## IV. Summary

For the samples of YBa2Cu3-_x_Ni2O7-_d_ (_x_ = 0.00, 0.02, 0.05, and
0.10) prepared in 1-atm oxygen atmosphere, x dependence of _Tc_ was
similar to the previously reported data. These as-synthesized samples
were annealed at temperatures higher than 800 degC in various
atmospheres (N2, air and 400- atm O2), and subsequently well-oxygenated
below 550 degC. At a fixed x, the values of _Tc_ decreased with
decreasing _p_(O2) during high-temperature annealing, keeping lattice
parameters and oxygen contents almost unchanged. This suggests the
annealing treatment at lower _p_(O2) moves substituted Ni atoms from the
Cu(1) site to the Cu(2) one. The present work provides a new technique
to control the occupation site of substituted Ni in YBa2Cu3O7-_d_.

## Acknowledgment

This work was supported by the New Energy and Industrial Technology
Development Organization (NEDO) as a part of its Research and
Development of Fundamental Technologies for the Superconductor
Applications Project under the New Sunshine Program administrated by the
Agency of Industrial Science and Technologies M.I.T.I. of Japan.

## References

* [* ] J. T. Markert, B. D. Dunlap, and M. B. Maple, MRS Bull. **14**,
37 (1989). * [2] Y. Maeno, T. Nojima, Y. Aoki, M. Kato, K. Hoshino, A.
Minami, and T. Fujita, Jpn. J. Appl. Phys., Part 2 **26**, L774
(1987). * [3] G. Xiao, F. H. Streitz, A. Gavrin, Y. W. Du, and C. L.
Chien, Phys. Rev. B **35**, 8782 (1987). * [4] Y. Maeno, T. Tomita, M.
Kyogoku, S. Awaji, Y. Aoki, K. Hoshino, A. Minami, and T. Fujita, Nature
(London) **328**, 512 (1987). * [5] J. M. Tarascon, L. H. Greene, P.
Barboux, W. R. McKinnon, G.

Figure 5: XRD patterns for YBa2Cu3−_x_Ni2O7−_d_ samples annealed at 800
°C for 14 days in flowing nitrogen gas.

W. Hull, T. P. Orlando, K. A. Delin, S. Foner, and E. J. McNiff, Jr.,
Phys. Rev. B **36**, 8393 (1987). * [6] E. Takayama-Muromachi, Y.
Uchida, and K. Kato, Jpn. J. Appl. Phys., Part 2 **26**, L2087 (1987). *
[7] H. Adrian and S. Nielsen, Europhys. Lett. **5**, 265 (1988). * [8]
J. M. Tarascon, P. Barboux, P. F. Miceli, L. H. Greene, G. W. Hull, M.
Eibschutz, and S. A. Sunshine, Phys. Rev. B **37**, 7458 (1987). * [9]
J. F. Bringley, T.-M. Chen, B. A. Averill, K. M. Wong, and S. J. Poon,
Phys. Rev. B **38**, 2432 (1988). * [10] Y. Shimakawa, Y. Kubo, K.
Utsumi, Y. Takeda, and M. Takano, Jpn. J. Appl. Phys., Part 2 **27**,
L1071 (1988). * [11] R. S. Howland, T. H. Geballe, S. S. Laderman, A.
Fischer-Colbrie, M. Scott, J. M. Tarascon, and P. Barboux, Phys. Rev. B
**39**, 9017 (1989). * [12] M. S. Islam and R. C. Baetzold, Phys. Rev. B
**40**, 10 926 (1989). * [13] F. Bridges, J. B. Boyce, T. Claeson, T. H.
Geballe, and J. M. Tarascon, Phys. Rev. B **42**, 2137 (1990). * [14] B.
Ullmann, R. Wordenweber, K. Heinemann, and H. C. Freyhardt, Physica C
**170**, 71 (1990). * [15] R. Liang, T. Nakamura, H. Kawaji, M. Itoh,
and T. Nakamura, Physica C **170**, 307 (1990). * [16] R. Kubiak and K.
Westerholt, Physica C **173**, 232 (1991). * [17] M. J. Sumner, J.-T.
Kim, and T. R. Lemberger, Phys. Rev. B **47**, 12 248 (1993). * [18] K.
Ishida, Y. Kitaoka, N. Ogata, T. Kamino, K. Asayama, J. R. Cooper, and
N. Athanassopoulou, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **62**, 2803 (1993). * [19] S. A.
Hoffman, M. A. Castro, G. C. Follis, and S. M. Durbin, Phys. Rev. B
**49**, 12 170 (1994). * [20] D. A. Bonn, S. Kamal, K. Zhang, R. Liang,
D. J. Baar, E. Klein, and W. N. Hardy, Phys. Rev. B **50**, 4051
(1994). * [21] P. Mendels, H. Alloul, G. Collin, N. Blanchard, J. F.
Marucco, and J. Bobroff, Physica C **235-240**, 1595 (1994). * [22] C.
C. Homes, Q. Song, B. P. Clayman, D. A. Bonn, R. Liang, and W. N. Hardy,
Proc. SPIE **2696**, 101 (1996). * [23] Y. Tokunaga, K. Ishida, Y.
Kitaoka, and K. Asayama, Solid State Commun. **103**, 43 (1997). * [24]
F. Shi, R. Harris, W. J. Bresser, D. McDaniel, and P. Boolchand, J.
Phys.: Condens. Matter **9**, L307 (1997). * [25] R. P. Gupta and M.
Gupta, Phys. Rev. B **59**, 3381 (1999). * [26] H. Fujishita and M.
Sato, Solid State Commun. **72**, 529 (1989). * [27] H. Harashina, T.
Nishikawa, T. Kiyokura, S. Shamoto, M. Sato, and K. Kakurai, Physica C
**212**, 142 (1993). * [28] A. Maeda, T. Yabe, S. Takebayashi, M. Hase,
and K. Uchinokura, Phys. Rev. B **41**, 4112 (1990). * [29] T. Kluge, Y.
Koike, A. Fujiwara, M. Kato, T. Noji, and Y. Saito, Phys. Rev. B **52**,
R727 (1995). * [30] D. Goldschmidt, Y. Direktovitch, A. Knizhnik, and Y.
Eckstein, Phys. Rev. B **54**, 13 348 (1996). * [31] I. Felner and B.
Brosh, Phys. Rev. B **43**, 10 364 (1991). * [32] T. Miyatake, K.
Yamaguchi, T. Takata, N. Koshizuka, and S. Tanaka, Phys. Rev. B **44**,
10 139 (1991). * [33] Y. Kodama, S. Tanemura, Y. Yamada, and T.
Matsumoto, Physica C **199**, 1 (1992). * [34] Ratan Lal, S. P. Pandey,
A. V. Narlikar, and E. Gmelin, Phys. Rev. B **49**, 6382 (1994). * [35]
T. H. Meen, F. L. Juang, W. J. Huang, Y. C. Chen, K. C. Huang, and H. D.
Yang, Physica C **242**, 373 (1995). * [36] G. V. M. Williams, J. L.
Tallon, R. Meinhold, and A. Janossy, Phys. Rev. B **51**, 16 503
(1995). * [37] G.-Q. Zheng, T. Odaguchi, Y. Kitaoka, K. Asayama, Y.
Kodama, K. Mizuhashi, and S. Uchida, Physica C **263**, 367 (1996). *
[38] N. Watanabe and N. Koshizuka, Phys. Rev. B **57**, 632 (1998). *
[39] K. Morita, H. Yamagata, and M. Matsumura, in _Meeting Abstracts of
the Physical Society Japan, Higashi-Hiroshima, 1999_, Vol. 54, p. 559
[in Japanese]. * [40] N. L. Wang, S. Tajima, V. Zelezny, and K.
Tomimoto, in Ref. [39], p. 603 [in Japanese]. * [41] K. Kishio, J.
Shimoyama, T. Hasegawa, K. Kitazawa, and K. Fueki, Jpn. J. Appl. Phys.
**26**, L1228 (1987). * [42] J. D. Jorgensen, M. A. Beno, D. G. Hinks,
L. Soderholm, K. J. Volin, R. L. Hitterman, J. D. Grace, I. K. Schuller,
C. U. Segre, K. Zhang, and M. S. Kleefisch, Phys. Rev. B **36**, 3608
(1987). * [43] R. D. Shannon, Acta Crystallogr., Sect. A: Cryst. Phys.,
Diffr., Theor. Gen. Crystallogr. **32**, 751 (1976). * [44] A. Navrotsky
and O. J. Kleppa, J. Inorg. Nucl. Chem. **29**, 2701 (1967). * [45] J.
G. Thompson, J. D. Fitz Gerald, R. L. Withers, P. J. Barlow, and J. S.
Anderson, Mater. Res. Bull. **24**, 505 (1989). * [46] C. Michel and B.
Raveau, J. Solid State Chem. **43**, 73 (1982).
