Optimization of the superconducting transition temperature of the filled
skutterudite BaPt₄Ge₁₂ by gold substitution

R. Gumeniuk, H. Rosner, W. Schnelle, M. Nicklas, A. Leithe-Jasper, and
Yu. Grin

Max-Planck Institute for Chemical Physics of Solids, Nothnitzer Strasse
40, 01187 Dresden, Germany

16 May 2008200812 August 2008

###### Abstract

The dependence of the superconducting properties of BaPt₄Ge₁₂ upon
substitution of platinum by gold is investigated. Full-potential
electronic structure calculations suggest that the electronic density of
states and the critical temperature of superconductivity T_(c) increases
with gold content. This is confirmed by experiments. Single phase
samples of BaPt_(4 − x)Au_(x)Ge₁₂ with x ≤ 1 are synthesized. The
structural properties, magnetization, specific heat, and electrical
resistivity in magnetic fields are probed. As predicted, T_(c) increases
significantly from 5.0 K (x=0) to 7.0 K (x=1).

10.1103/PhysRevB.78.052504 74.62.Bf, 74.10.+v, 74.25.Bt, 74.25.Jb
78.052504 052504 set, Ba(5s, 5p, 6s, 6p, 5d, 4f), Pt
(5s, 5p, 6s, 6p, 5d), and Ge (3d, 4s, 4p, 4d) states were employed.
Lower-lying states were treated as core. A very dense k mesh of 1256
points in the irreducible part of the Brillouin zone (30 × 30 × 30 in
the full zone) was used to ensure accurate DOS informed us, especially
close to E_(F). The substitution of Au for Pt was treated within the
virtual crystal approximation (VCA).

The resulting electronic DOS for the whole valence band is very similar
to that of LaPt₄Ge₁₂ (see Fig. 4 of Ref. [3]), but shifted by a small
energy. For the region close to E_(F), this is shown in the inset of
Fig. 1. This picture suggests that the treatment of partial Au
substitution for Pt within the VCA or even the rigid-band approximation
should provide a reliable electronic structure. The VCA calculations for
x=0.25, 0.5, 0.75, and 1.0 indeed yield DOSs close to E_(F) that agree
almost perfectly in terms of a rigid-band shift according to the
additional electrons provided by gold. This can be understood from the
large and similar binding energy of Pt and Au 5d states in this
compound. Because of its excellent agreement with the VCA (see Table 1),
the rigid-band approximation is used in the following since it provides
a very intuitive understanding for the electronic structure changes upon
Au substitution. Figure 1 shows the fine-resolved DOS near E_(F),
together with its integral normalized to E_(F). From the plot, the DOS
can directly be obtained as function of Au content. After a drop in the
DOS for x< 0.35 we find a strong increase with a maximum close to x=1.
Together with the observed rigid-band-like behavior this suggests a
sizable increase in T_(c) for x=1 assuming a constant electron-phonon
coupling.

XRD data demonstrate that single-phase samples exist for gold
substitutions up to x=1. The sample with x=1.25 could not be obtained as
a single-phase material. For x≥ 1.25 the lattice spacing a does not
change further indicating a solubility limit of Au at x≈ 1.2 at the
applied annealing temperatures. The unit cell volume increase from x=0
to x=1 amounts to 1.0

Magnetic susceptibility data in low fields μ₀H=2 mT in ZFC and FC mode
indicate transitions to the superconducting phase with temperatures
$T_{c}^{\rm mag}$ as listed in Table 1. Occasionally, a second, much
smaller diamagnetic transition with T_(c) up to 0.6 K higher than the
main transition was observed in the ZFC curve of samples with 0<x< 1.
For the samples with x=0, 0.5, 0.75, and 1.0 heat capacity was measured
in several fields and the results are depicted in Fig. 2. Both data sets
show a strong increase in T_(c) from 5.0 K for x=0 to 7.0 K for x=1
[$T_{c}^{\rm cal}$ values from c_(p)(T), cf. Table 1]. While the
increase in the lattice spacing a is linear in x, the T_(c) increases
nonlinearly and most strongly for x≥ 0.5. For x=0.25 almost no increase
in T_(c) is observed.

The steplike (second order) phase transitions observed in c_(p)(T) were
analyzed by fitting the data around T_(c) (typically ±1.5 K) with a BCS
or a two-fluid model.[12] The resulting relative "jump" Δc_(p)/T_(c) and
$T_{c}^{\rm cal}$ are given in Table 1. The normal state specific heat
(data taken in a field of 2.0 T) is analyzed in the temperature range
3-8 K by fitting to c_(p)(T)=γ_(N)T+βT³, where γ_(N) is the Sommerfeld
electronic specific heat coefficient and βT³ the Debye approximation for
the lattice contribution. γ_(N) and the initial Debye temperature Θ_(D)
as calculated from β are given in Table 1. Θ_(D) increases only little
(≈4

Figure 1: (Color online) Inset: Electronic density of states of
BaPt₄Ge₁₂ (line) and LaPt₄Ge₁₂ (gray area, Ref. [3]). The peak at E_(F)
is predominantly due to Ge 4p states. Main panel: Magnification of the
DOS of BaPt₄Ge₁₂ close to E_(F) (full line) and integrated DOS between E
and E_(F) (dashed line). Arrows indicate an extra filling with 0.5,
0.75, and 1.0e⁻, respectively.

in this respect is the systematic variation of physical properties of
the M[Fe₄Sb₁₂] skutterudites with the charge transfer.[13] A similar
concept seems to work also in the Pt-based skutterudites, here however,
it determines the superconducting T_(c). The comparatively lower T_(c)
of ThPt₄Ge₁₂ with tetravalent thorium and the DOS calculated by similar
methods for this compound[4] is consistent with our DOS for BaPt₄Ge₁₂ in
a rigid-band picture (Fig. 1 inset), i.e., hole doping by partial
substitution of Pt by Ir should increase the DOS and thus T_(c) of the
Th compound.

The Sommerfeld coefficient γ_(N) of 47.3 mJ mol⁻¹ K⁻² for BaPt₄Ge₁₂ is
larger than previously reported.[2, 3]γ_(N) increases by ≈20

The temperature and field dependence of the electrical resistivity
ρ(T, H) at T_(c) is given in Fig. 3. While the resistive transitions for
x=0 show a rounded foot above zero resistance, no such behavior is seen
for x=1. This indicates chemical inhomogeneities as already seen in the
width of the specific heat jump. For the determination of the upper
critical

Figure 4: (Color online) Upper critical field H_(c2) of
BaPt_(4 − x)Au_(x)Ge₁₂ vs temperature determined from different
properties. H_(c2) data for BaPt₄Ge₁₂ from c_(p) are taken from Ref.
[2].

Figure 5: (Color online) High-field (μ_(ρ)H=7 T) magnetic susceptibility
for BaPt_(4 − x)Au_(x)Ge₁₂ with different x.

Figure 3: (Color online) Electrical resistivity ρ(T, H) of
BaPt_(4 − x)Au_(x)Ge₁₂ in magnetic fields.

Figure 2: (Color online) Specific heat c_(p)/T vs T for
BaPt_(4 − x)Au_(x)Ge₁₂ in various magnetic fields. For clarity, the data
for x=0.75 are shifted upwards by 0.1 units, for x=0.5 by 0.2 units, and
those for x=0.0 by 0.3 units.

field H_(c2) the zero-resistance temperatures T_(c, 0) are taken. Figure
4 shows the variation of H_(c2) with temperature. For both x=0 and x=1 a
remarkably linear variation of H_(c2)(T/T_(c)) for high reduced
temperatures is observed. The extrapolated μ₀H_(c2)(0) of both compounds
amounts to 2.0 T in spite of the higher T_(c) of the compound with x=1.
The value of H_(c2)(0) and the field dependence for x=0 is similar to
previous observations,[2] where μ₀H_(c2)(0)=1.8 T was derived.

High-field magnetic susceptibility data (Fig. 5) display a temperature
dependence which changes systematically with gold content x. χ(T) is the
sum of T-independent core contributions $\chi_{\rm core}$ (very similar
for Pt and Au) and a weakly T-dependent Pauli susceptibility
$\chi_{\rm Pauli}(T)$. Looking first for the zero-T value χ₀ (see Table
1), for x=0.25 a value lower by 60×10⁻⁶ emu/mol than χ₀(x=0) is seen,
while for 0.25<x≤ 1 a strong increase in χ₀ is found. χ₀(x=1) is
110×10⁻⁶ emu/mol larger than χ₀(x=0). For x> 1 the χ₀ again decreases.
This variation is consistent with that of the DOS at E_(F): from the
variation of χ₀(x) an increase in the DOS by =3.4 states/eV is derived
within the free electron model, in good agreement with the LDA
calculations (2.9 states/eV). Due to the enhancement the variation of
the DOS with x is not mirrored in γ_(N), which increases continuously
with x but weaker than expected from the DOS. The clear increase in
Δc_(p^(′))/(γ_(N)T_(c)) may indicate a stronger coupling for x=1 than
for x< 1.

Looking now at the temperature dependence, χ(T) increases with T and
goes through a maximum for x=0 and x=0.25. For x=0.5 the susceptibility
is almost T independent and for 0.75≤x≤ 1.25 it decreases with T and
becomes constant at high T. The temperature dependence of
$\chi_{\rm Pauli}$ is determined by the DOS(E_(F)) and its first and
second derivative.[14] Numerical derivation of calculated DOS data is
not feasible due to limited energy resolution and smoothness. The
positive quadratic rise of χ(T) for x=0.25 – a composition which is
close to a DOS minimum – is however understandable.

In conclusion, we have predicted from DFT calculations that a
substitution of platinum by gold, i.e., by electron doping of the
skutterudite host structure, will increase the density of states and
thus the superconducting T_(c) of BaPt_(4 − x)Au,Ge₁₂ for x between 0.35
and 1.0. The prediction was experimentally confirmed by magnetization,
specific heat, and electrical resistivity measurements. An increase in
T_(c) from 5.0 K to 7.0 K and an increase in Δc_(p^(′))/(γ_(N)T_(c)) is
observed. Thus, the maximum T_(c) of the BaPt_(4 − x)Au,Ge₁₂ system with
one additional electron is only little lower than for the compounds with
trivalent La or Pr cations. We have shown that due to the low-lying Pt
5d states the rigid-band picture is a good approximation for the band
structure of this group of skutterudites. It suggests that the charge on
the polyanion [T₄χ₁₂], adjusted either by electron transfer from a
suitable cation M or by internal substitution, is determining the
physical properties of these compounds.

H.R. gratefully acknowledges financial support by the
Emmy-Noether-Programm of the Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft.

## References

* Matthias (1955) B. T. Matthias, Phys. Rev. **97**, 74 (1955). * Bauer
et al. (2007) E. Bauer, A. Grytsiv, X. Q. Chen, N. Melnychenko-Koblyuk,
G. Hilscher, H. Kaldarar, H. Michor, E. Royanian, G. Giester, M. Rotter,
R. Podloucky, and P. Rogl, Phys. Rev. Lett. **99**, 217001 (2007). *
Gumeniuk et al. (2008) R. Gumeniuk, W. Schnelle, H. Rosner, M. Nicklas,
A. Leithe-Jasper, and Yu. Grin, Phys. Rev. Lett. **100**, 017002
(2008). * Kaczorowski and Tran (2008) D. Kaczorowski and V. H. Tran,
Phys. Rev. B **77**, 180504(R) (2008). * Pickett and Singh (1994) W. E.
Pickett and D. J. Singh, Phys. Rev. Lett. **72**, 3702 (1994). * Schmidt
and Braun (1997) H. Schmidt and H. F. Braun, Phys. Rev. B **55**, 8497
(1997). * Khan et al. (2008) R. B. Khan, E. Bauer, X. Chen, R.
Podloucky, and P. Rogl, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **77**, 350 (2008). * (8)stoe
winxpw, Version 2, STOE & Cie GmbH, Darmstadt. * Akselrud et al. (1993)
L. G. Akselrud, P. Y. Zavalii, Yu. Grin, V. K. Pecharsky, B.
Baumgartner, and E. Wolfel, Mater. Sci. Forum **133-136**, 335 (1993). *
Koepernik and Eschrig (1999) K. Koepernik and H. Eschrig, Phys. Rev. B
**59**, 1743 (1999). * Perdew and Wang (1992) J. P. Perdew and Y. Wang,
Phys. Rev. B **45**, 13244 (1992). * Gulden et al. (1997) T. Gulden, R.
W. Henn, O. Jepsen, R. K. Kremer, W. Schnelle, A. Simon, and C. Felser,
Phys. Rev. B **56**, 9021 (1997). * Schnelle et al. (2008) W. Schnelle,
A. Leithe-Jasper, H. Rosner, R. Cardoso-Gil, R. Gumeniuk, D. Trots, J.
A. Mydosh, and Yu. Grin, Phys. Rev. B **77**, 094421 (2008). * Wilson
(1958) A. H. Wilson, _The Theory of Metals_ (Cambridge University Press,
Cambridge, England, 1958).
