# Structure and magnetism of the layered ruthenocuprate Pb2RuSr2Cu2O8Cl

Abbie C. Mclaughlin, Judith A. McAllister, Lisa D. Stout, and J. Paul
Attfield*

Department of Chemistry, University of Cambridge, Lensfield Road,
Cambridge CB2 1EW, United Kingdom and Interdisciplinary Research Centre
in Superconductivity, Department of Physics, University of Cambridge,
Madingley Road, Cambridge CB3 0HE, United Kingdom

7 November 2001; published 24 April 2002

###### Abstract

The crystal structure and magnetism of the layered ruthenocuprate
Pb2RuSr2Cu2O8Cl have been studied. A powder neutron diffraction study
reveals that the crystal structure is tetragonal (space group P4/_mmm_,
a = 3.866 81(9) A , c = 15.3699(8) A at 295 K) with disordered rotations
and tilts of the RuO6 octahedra with no structural transitions down to
10 K. A magnetic transition to a canted antiferromagnetic state occurs
at T_(M) = 117 K, and the ordered Ru moment is 1.1(1) m_(B) , at 10 K
from Rietveld analysis of neutron data. A spin-flop or metamagnetic
transition is observed above a field of 0.5 T, and the saturated
ferromagnetic Ru moment is 0.5_m__B_ - 0.8_m__B_ . The sample is not
superconducting.

pacs: 74.62.Bf, 74.72.Jt, 75.50.Dd, 75.50.Ee + Footnote †: preprint:
PHYSICAL REVIEW B, VOLUME 65, 172506

The coexistence of weak ferromagnetism and superconductivity has
recently been observed in the 1212-type layered ruthenocuprate
RuSr2GdCu2O8 (Refs. 1-9) and in 1222-type analogs such as
RuSr2CeO8Gd1,5Cu2O10,1 Bulk superconductivity originates in the CuO2
planes below T_(c) < 50 K, and a magnetic transition (T_(M) = 136 K in
RuSr2GdCu2O8) results from the ordering of moments in the RuO2 planes
and persists through the onset of superconductivity to the lowest
temperature investigated (1.9 K).3G-type antiferromagnetic order within
the RuO2 planes has been observed from neutron scattering experiments6
on RuSr2GdCu2O8 with an ordered moment of 1.18(6)m_(B) , and an upper
limit of 0.1_m__B_ was obtained for the ferromagnetic component. The Ru
moments are canted in RuSr2GdCu2O8, yielding a small ferromagnetic
moment in zero field, due to a Dzyaloshinsky-Moriya interaction between
neighboring Ru moments which is nonzero due to the symmetry-breaking
tilts and rotations of the RuO6 octahedra. Upon the application of a
magnetic field the Ru spins cant further away from the _G_-type magnetic
structure until at 7 T there is no evidence of antiferromagnetic order.

In this paper, results from the ruthenocuprate Pb2RuSr2Cu2O8Cl (Fig. 1)
will be discussed. This material has a similar structure to
RuSr2GdCu2O8, but diamagnetic Pb2Cl layers replace Gd, making the
material an attractive candidate for neutron diffraction and magnetic
measurements although it is difficult to prepare as a pure phase. The
isosstructural materials Pb2_M_Sr2Cu2O8Cl (_M_ = Nb,Ta,Sb) have
previously been reported;10-12 they are insulating (_r_   106Ω cm, at
300 K) and are not ferromagnetic.

Samples were prepared by the solid-state reaction of RuO2, SrCO3, CuO,
and PbO and at 550-700 degC. Details of the synthesis will be reported
elsewhere. It has proved very difficult to prepare Pb2RuSr2Cu2O8Cl free
of other phases. The sample used here contained 73

Neutron powder diffraction data were collected on the General Materials
Diffractometer (GEM) at the Rutherford-Appleton laboratory. Neutron
diffraction patterns were collected at 295 and 10 K from a 1 g sample in
1 h. The data from the 20, 60, 90, and 169.3deg 2 _th_ detector banks
were analyzed simultaneously, giving a d space range of 0.42-12 A, using
the gsas program.13 The neutron diffraction pattern of the
Pb2RuSr2Cu2O8Cl sample showed it to contain a ’SrRuO3’ perovskite phase
and CuO. These secondary phases were included in the refinement and
excellent Rietveld fits (R_(P) = 2.55

Figure 1: Crystal structure of Pb2RuSr2Cu2O8Cl showing the measured
tilts and rotations of the RuO6 octahedra.

displacement factors for all sites in the Pb₂RuSr₂Cu₂O₈Cl structure were
refined, and displacive disorder of the oxygen atoms within the RuO₂
planes and those linking the CuO₅ units and RuO₆ octahedra was evidenced
by large U values. This disorder was modeled in the same way as that in
the 1212 and 1222-type ruthenocurates.[6] The RuO₆ octahedra are rotated
by 13.4^(∘) around the z axis and are tilted away from this axis by
7.1^(∘) at 295 K. These displacements were also observed at 10 K,
showing that they are due to static disorder within the average
structure rather than phonon motion. The metal and oxygen site
occupancies did not yield any significant deviations from complete
filling. The apical Cu-O distance [2.243(5) A] is longer than that in
RuSrGdCu₂O₈[2.184(6) A] at room temperature. A bond valence sum
calculation shows that the hole transfer to the CuO₂ planes is ∼0.1 less
than that in RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈. Doping studies of the latter material have
shown that the hole concentration per Cu is 0.08,[14, 15] so we conclude
that CuO₂ planes in Pb₂RuSr₂Cu₂O₈Cl are essentially undoped.

Antiferromagnetic order was detected in the 10 K diffraction pattern by
the observation of the (1/2 1/2 1/2) magnetic diffraction peak which is
not observed in the 295 K pattern [Fig. 3(a)]. This was fitted with a
G-type antiferromagnetic model, as was used for RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈,[6] in
which the spins are antiparallel to their neighbors in the ab plane and
along c. Assuming the spins lie parallel to the c axis, this model gives
a refined Ru moment of 1.1(1) μ_(B) which is within error of the value
$\mu_{\rm Ru}$= 1.18(6) μ_(B) in RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈.[8] There is no increase
in the intensity of any of the (0 0 l) Bragg peaks between 295 and 10 K
which would be expected from a ferromagnetic ordering in the xy plane.
The temperature dependence of the (1/2 1/2 1/2) intensity [Fig. 3(b)]
shows the magnetic ordering transition in Pb₂RuSr₂Cu₂O₈Cl at 117 K.

Variable-field neutron diffraction measurements were recorded up to 3 T
at 10 K using an Oxford Instruments 7.5-T cryomagnet. At fields higher
than 0.5 T, the intensity of the (1/2 1/2 1/2) magnetic peak decreases
while an increase of the (0 0 3) peak intensity is observed
corresponding to the induced ferromagnetism in the xy plane [Fig. 4(a)].
There is no significant (1/2 1/2 1/2) intensity remaining at 1.1 T [Fig.
4(b)]. Returning to zero field, the (1/2 1/2 1/2) peak recovers its
original intensity, indicating that the effect of the field is
reversible. Evidence of such a spin-flop or metamagnetic transition has
been reported in RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈ at 0.4 T (Ref. [6]) and RuSr₂YCu₂O₈ (Ref.
[16]). The similarity of the variable-field neutron diffraction data for
Pb₂RuSr₂Cu₂O₈Cl to those of the 1212 phases suggests that this
field-dependent magnetic order is common to the ruthenocurate
structures, but more detailed neutron diffraction experiments on a phase
pure sample of Pb₂RuSr₂Cu₂O₈Cl will be necessary in order to confirm
this.

Magnetizations were measured between 10 and 300 K on a Quantum Design
superconducting quantum interference device (SQUID) magnetometer in an
applied field of 0.1 T after zero-field and field cooling. A
ferromagnetic transition at a Curie temperature of T_(M)= 117(1) K is
evidenced from the rise in magnetism and the divergence of the
field-cooled and zero-field-cooled magnetizations (Fig. 5). This
coincides with the appearance of the (1/2 1/2 1/2) neutron peak that
characterises long-range antiferromagnetic order [Fig. 3(b)], showing
that the magnetic order in fields 0 ≤H<0.5 T has a mixed
ferromagnetic-antiferromagnetic character as expected for a canted
antiferromagnet (weak ferromagnet). No sepa

Figure 3: (a) Part of the diffraction pattern of the Pb₂RuSr₂Cu₂O₈Cl
sample showing the Rietveld fits to the nuclear (0 0 3) and the
antiferromagnetic (1/2 1/2 1/2) Bragg peaks at 10 and 295 K. (b) shows
the temperature variation of the (1/2 1/2 1/2) peak intensity.

Figure 2: Rietveld fit to the 2 θ= 90^(∘) detector neutron diffraction
data for the Pb₂RuSr₂Cu₂O₈Cl sample at 295 K. Lower, middle, and upper
reflection markers correspond to Pb₂RuSr₂Cu₂O₈Cl, SrRuO₃, and CuO,
respectively.

rate ferromagnetic transition is observed for the ’⋅’SrRuO₃’ ’secondary
phase. This suggests that nonstoichiometry or chemical substitutions
have either suppressed the ferromagnetism found in pure SrRuO₃ (T_(M) =
165 K) or reduced the Curie temperature until it is coincident with that
of the main Pb₂RuSr₂Cu₂O₈Cl phase. The former scenario seems most
probable as there is no observable ferromagnetic contribution to the
’⋅’SrRuO₃’ ’ peaks in the 10-K neutron profile. The magnetic properties
of SrRuO₃ are known to be sensitive to substitutions at the Sr (Ref.
[17]) or Ru sites [e.g., in SrRu_(1 − x)Pb_(x)O₃ (Ref. [18])] and to the
synthesis conditions, [19] so the present ’⋅’SrRuO₃’ ’ phase is likely
to be a complex (Sr,Pb)(Ru,Pb,Cu)O_(3 ± x) composition. This is
corroborated by the difference between the lattice parameters of SrRuO₃
(Ref. [20] [a = 5.5328(1) A, b = 7.8471(1) A, c = 5.5693(1) A] and those
of the ’⋅’SrRuO₃’ ’ phase derived from our Rietveld refinement [a =
5.5589(1) A, b = 7.8250(1) A, c = 5.5646(1) A].

Magnetic hysteresis loops recorded at 10 K with the field swept between
±5 T confirm the ferromagnetic order and yield a moment of 0.8(1) μ_(B)
per Ru atom in the sample; a typical loop is displayed in the inset of
Fig. 5. The maximum possible contribution of the 19

The resistivity of a sintered polycrystalline bar was measured between
10 and 300 K using the standard four-probe ac technique. Resistivity
measurements show that the sample is semiconducting with a
room-temperature resistivity of 160 G cm. There is no evidence for a
superconducting transition at low temperatures. This is consistent with
the copper oxide planes being too underdoped to superconduct as the
apical Cu-O bond length is longer for Pb₂RuSr₂Cu₂O₈Cl than that in
RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈ .

In conclusion, the ruthenocuprate Pb₂RuSr₂Cu₂O₈Cl has a crystal
structure (including rotations and tilts of the RuO₆ octahedra) and
magnetic properties that are very similar to the previously reported
Ru-1212 and -1222 phases, although the sample is not superconducting.
Pb₂RuSr₂Cu₂O₈Cl is a canted antiferromagnet in zero field with a Curie
temperature of T_(M) = 117 K and an ordered moment of 1.1μ_(B) per Ru.
The Ru spins undergo a spin-flop or metamagnetic transition above H =
0.5 T, giving a saturated Ru moment of 0.5μ_(B)−0.8μ_(B) . Despite the
similarity to the Ru-1212 and -1222 phases, the carrier distribution in
Pb₂RuSr₂Cu₂O₈Cl appears to be different, as the lack of
superconductivity and the longer apical Cu-O distance suggest that the
CuO₂ planes are essentially undoped. The RuO₂ planes thus contain Ru⁵⁺
with little or no electron doping to the Ru⁴⁺ state. This confirms that
the weak ferromagnetism in the layered ruthenocuprates arises from the
local symmetry-breaking structural distortions rather than a mixed
Ru⁴⁺/Ru⁵⁺ electronic state.

We thank EPSRC for the provision of research Grant No. GR/M59976 and
support for A.C.M., and Dr. P. G. Radaelli for assistance with the
neutron measurements.

Figure 4: (a) Field dependence of the intensity of the magnetic (1/2 1/2
1/2) and nuclear (0 0 3) neutron diffraction peaks at 10 K. The
diffraction data at fields of 0.5 and 1.1 T are shown in (b); the former
data are offset by 0.5 counts $\mu_{\rm{8}}$⁻¹.

Figure 5: Variable-temperature magnetization data (zero-field and field
cooled) for the Pb₂RuSr₂Cu₂O₈Cl sample. The inset shows the hysteresis
loop for the Pb₂RuSr₂Cu₂O₈Cl sample at 10 K.

* [4]FAX: 01223 332362. Electronic address: jpa14@cam.ac.uk * [5] L.
Bauernfeind, W. Widder, and H. F. Braun, Physica C **254**, 151
(1995). * [6] I. Felner, U. Asaf, S. Reich, and Y. Tsabba, Physica C
**311**, 163 (1999). * [7] C. Bernhard, J. L. Tallon, C. Niedermayer, T.
Blasius, A. Golnik, E. Brucher, R. K. Kremer, D. R. Noakes, C. E.
Stronach, and E. J. Ansaldo, Phys. Rev. B **59**, 14 099 (1999). * [8]
A. C. Mclaughlin, W. Zhou, J. P. Attfield, A. N. Fitch, and J. L.
Tallon, Phys. Rev. B **60**, 7512 (1999). * [9] J. L. Tallon, J. W.
Loram, G. V. M. Williams, and C. Bernhard, Phys. Rev. B **61**, 6471
(2000). * [10] J. W. Lynn, B. Keimer, C. Ulrich, C. Bernhard, and J. L.
Tallon, Phys. Rev. B **61**, 14 964 (2000). * [11] A. C. Mclaughlin, J.
P. Attfield, and J. L. Tallon, Int. J. Inorg. Mater. **2**, 95 (2000). *
[12] O. Chmaissem, J. D. Jorgensen, H. Shaked, P. Dollar, and J. L.
Tallon, Phys. Rev. B **61**, 6401 (2000). * [13] J. D. Jorgensen, O.
Chmaissem, H. Shaked, S. Short, P. W. Klamut, B. Dabrowski, and J. L.
Tallon, Phys. Rev. B **63**, 054440 (2001). * [14] R. K. Li, Physica C
**277**, 252 (1997). * [15] R. K. Li, J. Solid State Chem. **130**, 154
(1997). * [16] R. J. Crooks, C. S. Knee, and M. T. Weller, Chem. Mater.
**10**, 4169 (1998). * [17] A. C. Larson and R. B. Von Dreele, Los
Alamos National Laboratory Report No. LA-UR-86-748, 1994
(unpublished). * [18] A. C. Mclaughlin, V. Janowitz, J. A. McAllister,
and J. P. Attfield, Chem. Commun. (Cambridge) **2000**, 1331. * [19] A.
C. Mclaughlin, V. Janowitz, J. A. McAllister, and J. P. Attfield, J.
Mater. Chem. **11**, 173 (2001). * [20] H. Takagiwa, J. Akimitsu, H.
Kawano-Furukawa, and H. Yoshzawa, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **70**, 333
(2001). * [21] T. He, Q. Huang, and R. J. Cava, Phys. Rev. B **63**,
024402 (2000). * [22] G. Cao, S. McCall, J. Bolivar, M. Shepard, F.
Freibert, P. Henning, and J. E. Crow, Phys. Rev. B **54**, 15 144
(1996). * [23] P. A. Joy, S. K. Date, and P. S. Anil Kumar, Phys. Rev. B
**56**, 2324 (1997). * [24] H. Kobayashi, M. Nagata, R. Kanno, and Y.
Kawamoto, Mater. Res. Bull. **29**, 1271 (1994).
