# Two-gap superconductivity and topological surface states in TaOsSi

C. Q. Xu,^(1, 2) B. Li,³ J. J. Feng,¹ W. H. Jiao,⁴ Y. K. Li,⁵ S. W.
Liu,¹ Y. X. Zhou,⁶ R. Sankar,⁷ Nikolai D. Zhigadlo,^(8, 9) H. B. Wang,²
Z. D. Han,² B. Qian,² W. Ye,^(1,)1 W. Zhou,^(2,)2 T. Shiroka,¹⁰ Pabitra
K. Biswas,¹¹ Xiaofeng Xu,² and Z. X. Shi^(1,)3

¹School of Physics and Key Laboratory of MEMS of the Ministry of
Education, Southeast University, Nanjing 211189, China

²Department of Physics, Changsha Institute of Technology, Changsha
215500, China

³Information Physics Research Center, Nanjing University of Posts and
Telecommunications, Nanjing 210023, China

⁴Department of Physics, Zhejiang University of Science and Technology,
Hangzhou 310023, China

⁵Department of Physics and Hangzhou Key Laboratory of Quantum Matters,
Hangzhou Normal University, Hangzhou 310036, China

⁶Department of Physics, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310007, China

⁷Institute of Physics, Academia Sinica, Nankang, Taipei, 11529, Taiwan

⁸Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, University of Bern, CH-3012
Bern, Switzerland

⁹CrystMat Company, CH-8046 Zurich, Switzerland

¹⁰Laboratorium fur Fiskt-kopfermphysik, ETH Honggerberg, Zurich,
CH-8093, Switzerland

¹¹ISIS Pulsed Neutron and Muon Source, STFC Rutherford Appleton
Laboratory, Harwell Campus, Didcot, Oxfordshire OX11 0QX, United Kingdom

Footnote 1: seewei@seu.edu.cn

Footnote 2: seezshi@seu.edu.cn

Footnote 3: seezshi@seu.edu.cn

Footnote 4: seezshi@seu.edu.cn

Footnote 5: seezshi@seu.edu.cn

###### Abstract

The occurrence of superconductivity in topological materials is
considered as a promising route for realizing topological
superconductors, a platform able to host the long-sought Majorana
fermions in condensed matter. In this work, by using electrical
transport and heat-capacity measurements, as well as first-principles
band-structure calculations, we investigate the physical properties of
TaOsSi, a superconductor with T_(c) ≈ 5.8 K. The behavior of both its
upper critical field and low-temperature heat-capacity suggest the
existence of two superconducting gaps. More strikingly, first-principles
calculations reveal gapless topological surface states in the present
material. The evolution of the electrical resistivity with pressure (up
to 50 GPa) was also investigated, and a "V-shaped" diagram of T_(c) vs P
was found. Overall, our data suggest that TaOsSi is a new system where
multiband superconductivity and topological surface states coexist and,
hence, it may serve as a possible candidate in the search for
topological superconductivity.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.100.134503

## I Introduction

Unlike the common Dirac fermions, Majorana fermions are exotic particles
which represent their own antiparticle. Originally investigated within
the scope of particle physics, due to possible uses in quantum
computation [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6], they have been facing an increasing
interest also by condensed-matter physicists. In condensed matter,
Majorana fermions may exist as emergent collective excitations of
electrons, typically observed at the boundaries of topological
superconductors or in some spin-liquid systems [1]. Two key conditions
should be satisfied in order to realize Majorana fermions from
collective excitations [1]: (1) compliance with the Dirac equation, and
(2) self-conjugation. Topological superconductors, hosting not only a
fully gapped superconducting bulk state, but also a gapless surface
state, are natural systems for observing the Majorana bound states.
Indeed, here the particle-hole symmetry, resulting from the
superposition of electron and hole excitations in a superconductor,
jointly with the topological gapless boundary excitations, make such
systems ideal candidates [1, 3].

Currently, two possible realizations of topological superconductors are
envisioned, including either the spin-triplet (i.e., odd-parity) pairing
superconductors, or the superconducting topological surface states
induced by the proximity effect from an s-wave superconductor [1, 3, 7,
8, 9]. As for the first proposal, if one excludes the controversial
Sr₂RuO₄[10, 11, 12, 13], the doped topological insulator
Cu_(x)Bi₂Se₃[14, 15, 16], and some noncentrosymmetric superconductors
[17, 18], the currently known spin-triplet superconductors are rather
scarce. As for the second proposal, the inhomogeneity induced by doping
usually hinders the realization of Majorana bound states at the vortex
cores. Currently, due to the burgeoning discovery of topological
semimetals, researchers have been gradually shifting their attention to
topological systems that simultaneously exhibit also intrinsic
superconductivity. Such peculiar compounds include, e.g., PbTaSe₂[19,
20], β-PdBi₂[21, 22], and RPtBi (R = rare earth) [23, 24, 25].

Recently, two new superconductors, TaOsSi (T_(c) ∼ 5.5 K) and NbOsSi
(T_(c) ∼ 3.5 K), have been discovered [26]. Due to the presence of heavy
transition-metal elements, such as Ta and Os, and the ensuing spin-orbit
coupling (SOC) effects on the band structure, TaOsSi represents a
potentially interesting material. Since to date its superconducting
properties have never been studied, here we attempt a detailed
investigation of its electronic properties, upper critical field, and
superconducting gap, via electrical transport and heat-capacity
measurements, as well as via first-principles band-structure
calculations. Surprisingly, the experimental results indicate that
TaOsSi is a two-gap superconductor, while calculations suggest the
occurrence of topological surface states. The simultaneous presence of
superconductivity and topological effects makes TaOsSi a possible
candidate in the search for topological superconductivity and Majorana
fermions.

## II Experimental details

Polycrystalline TaOsSi specimens were synthesized via the arc-melting
method. Tantalum pellets, osmium ingots, and silicon pieces, all 99.99

The electronic band structures were computed by using the full-potential
linearized augmented plane wave (FP-LAPW) method, as implemented in the
wien2k code [27]. Relativistic and spin-orbit coupling (SOC) effects
were included in all the calculations. The generalized gradient
approximation (GGA) [28] was used to calculate the exchange-correlation
potential. A muffin-tin potential with a radius of 2.5 a.u. was chosen
for the Ta and Os atoms, and of 1.87 a.u. for the Si atoms. The
plane-wave cutoff was defined by the condition rk_(max) = 7.0, with r
being the minimum LAPW sphere radius and k_(max) being the
plane-wave-vector cutoff. The self-consistent band-structure calculation
was performed over a mesh of 10 x 10 x 9k points. To obtain the
Fermi-surface properties, a tight-binding model based on maximally
localized Wannier functions [29,30] was constructed. This could
reproduce the band structure of the bulk, including the spin-orbit
coupling with the Ta d, Os s and d, and Si p orbitals. The band
structure and the Fermi surface were calculated on a dense mesh of 24 x
39 x 20 k points in the first Brillouin zone.

## III Results

TaOsSi crystallizes in the TiNiSi orthorhombic structure with space
group _Pnma_ (No. 62, centrosymmetric). As shown in Fig. 1, powder x-ray
diffraction measurements followed by Rietveld refinements allowed us to
determine the TaOsSi lattice parameters: a = 6.26(5) A, b = 3.89(3) A,
and c = 7.25(9) A. The almost-zero residuals indicate a good sample
quality and the lack of spurious phases.

The temperature-dependent resistivity ρ(T), magnetic susceptibility
χ(T), and heat capacity C/T of TaOsSi are shown in Fig. 2. Starting from
300 K, the sample is first metallic then, once cooled below T_(c) ∼ 5.8
K, it enters the superconducting phase. The residual-resistivity ratio
RRR (ρ_(300K)/ρ_(0K)) is circa 5.9. As shown in the inset of Fig. 2(a),
the low-temperature resistivity can be nicely fit with a power-law
function ρ = ρ₀ + AT², with A = 9.66 × 10⁻⁴μΩ cm K⁻². The quadratic
temperature dependence reflects the scattering of electrons off each
other in the presence of a crystal lattice and ultimately suggests a
Fermi-liquid behavior [31].

The bulk superconductivity of TaOsSi was confirmed by a perfect
diamagnetic response and a large specific-heat jump at T_(c), as shown
in Figs. 2(b) and 2(c). The normal-state heat capacity was fit by
C/T = γ_(n) + βT² + δT⁴, the first term being related to electronic
contributions and the other two to phononic contributions. The fit
yields a Sommerfeld constant γ_(n) = 8.52 mJ mol⁻¹ K⁻², β = 0.027 mJ
mol⁻¹ K⁻⁴, and δ = 0.0015 mJ mol⁻¹ K⁻⁶. From β we determine a Debye
temperature of 595 K, 25

The temperature-dependent resistivity measurements at different applied
fields are shown in Fig. 3(a). As the field increases, the
superconducting transition is gradually suppressed to lower
temperatures. By locating the points where ρ drops to 90

Figure 1: Powder XRD pattern and Rietveld refinement for TaOsSi. The
blue line at the bottom indicates the residuals. The inset shows the
orthorhombic crystal structure of TaOsSi.

also been observed in MgB₂[35] and in some unconventional
superconductors [36, 37, 38], and most likely suggest a two-band
superconductivity in TaOsSi. The two-band model for H_(c2) can be
expressed as [39]

$$\begin{split} 1&=a_{0}[\ln t+U(h)][\ln t+U(\eta h)]\\ &+a_{1}[\ln t+U(h)]+a_{2}[\ln t+U(\eta h)],\end{split}$$
(1)

where a₀, a₁, a₂ are determined by the matrix

$$\begin{pmatrix}\lambda_{11}&\lambda_{12}\\ \lambda_{21}&\lambda_{22}\end{pmatrix},$$

$h=\frac{H_{c2}D_{1}}{2b_{0}T}$, $\eta=\frac{D_{1}}{D_{1}}$, and
$U(x)=\psi(x+\frac{1}{2})-\psi(\frac{1}{2})$, with ψ(x) being the
digamma function. Here, the diagonal (off-diagonal) λ terms express the
intraband (interband) coupling constants, while D₁, D₂ denote the
diffusivity of each band. As seen in Fig. 3(b), the two-band theory can
fit the experimental data overall within the error bars, and the
resultant parameters are given in the figure. The best fits of the
experimental H_(c2)(T) data give η = 0.088 when employing the 90

To confirm the two-band superconductivity of TaOsSi, we further analyzed
its low-temperature heat capacity. The temperature dependence of ΔC,
shown in Fig. 4(a), was modeled by means of different gap functions
(see, e.g., Refs. [40, 41]). In the BCS theory, the zero-field
electronic heat capacity C_(ex) in the superconducting state is derived
from the entropy S_(ex) by using the relation C_(ex) = T(∂S/∂T), where
[40]

$$S_{ex}=\frac{3\gamma_{n}}{k_{\text{B}}\pi^{3}}\int_{0}^{2\pi}\int_{0}^{\infty }[(1-f)\ln(1-f)+f\ln f]d\varepsilon\,d\phi.$$
(2)

Figure 3: (a) Temperature dependence of resistivity in different applied
magnetic fields. (b) Temperature dependence of the upper critical field,
as obtained by the 90

Figure 2: (a) Temperature dependence of resistivity. Inset: At low
temperature (above T_(c)), ρ(T) is proportional to T², a behavior
compatible with Fermi-liquid theory. (b) Temperature dependence of
magnetic susceptibility for a zero-field cooling (ZFC) and a field
cooling (FC) process. (c) Temperature dependence of heat capacity,
plotted as C/T versus T². The red solid line is a fit based on
C/T = γ_(n) + βT² + δT⁴.

Here, γ_(n) is the normal-state Sommerfeld coefficient,
$f=1/(1+\exp^{E/k_{\rm B}T})$ is the Fermi distribution [with
E = [ε² + Δ²(ϕ)]^(1/2) being the quasiparticle occupation number), and
Δ(ϕ) is the angular dependence of the gap function. For a conventional
s-wave superconductor, Δ(ϕ) is a constant, while for a d-wave
superconductor Δ(ϕ) = αΔ(T)cos (2ϕ). Here, for the temperature
dependence of the gap function, we adopt the well-established α model,
i.e., $\Delta(\phi,T)=\alpha\Delta_{\rm BCS}(\phi,T)$[42], where
$\Delta_{\rm BCS}(\phi,T)$ is the weak-coupling BCS gap function. This
means that we assume a BCS-like gap and use the parameter α to evaluate
the strength of electron-phonon coupling. In case of a two-gap fit, two
sets of γ_(n) and α values were used.

At a first glance, all models seem to fit the data well. However, upon
magnifying the low-T region [see Fig. 4(b)], one observes clear
differences. Thus, neither the single s-wave nor the d-wave model can
fit the data satisfactorily. Conversely, a two-gap s-wave model provides
an almost ideal fit. For all cases, the corresponding fit parameters are
listed in Table 1. The resulting ΔC/γ_(n)T for the two-gap model is
equal to 1.3, very close to the weak-coupling BCS value of 1.43. The
resultant α values in the two-gap fit suggest the weak-coupling nature
of the superconductivity herein.

Figure 5 illustrates the DFT-calculated band structure of TaOsSi. When
the SOC is ignored, four bands, arising mainly from the Ta and Os d
orbitals, are found to cross the Fermi level $E_{\rm F}$. These bands
remain at least twofold degenerate at the high-symmetry lines on the
Brillouin zone (BZ) boundary. Interestingly, two distinct hourglass band
crossings show up between T and Y, and at the S point near the Fermi
level $E_{\rm F}$. The resulting Dirac points are fourfold degenerate
with a linear energy dispersion along all three principal momentum
directions. When SOC is accounted for, the number of bands doubles due
to the lifting of the degeneracy. Despite the presence of gapped band
crossings at the Dirac points, we find that the band structure still
crosses the Fermi level. This means that the spin-orbit coupling effects
are not strong enough to change the metallic character of TaOsSi.

The first BZ, including its high-symmetry points and the full
three-dimensional (3D) Fermi surfaces (with color-coded Fermi
velocities) are shown in Figs. 6(a) and 6(b), respectively. To further
clarify the band-structure of TaOsSi, we calculated also its bulk Fermi
surfaces at the k_(x) = 0 plane and the surface-state spectra at a (100)
section, as shown in Figs. 6(c) and 6(d), respectively. In the latter
case, we clearly observe the appearance of extra surface states (bright
red lines), which connect the bulk states. The 3D Fermi surfaces show
complex three-dimensional characteristics.

To further confirm the topological nature of TaOsSi, we calculated the
Z₂ topological indices (v₀, v₁v₂v₃) normally used to classify the
topological band insulators and semimetals [43]. Each of the four
invariants takes a value of either 0 or 1, thus enumerating 16 phases
belonging to three classes. A nonzero v₀ indicates that the system is a
strong topological insulator (STI). When v₀ = 0, the systems are further
classified according to v₁, v₂, and v₃. Systems with v₁ ≠ 0, v₂ ≠ 0, and
v₃ ≠ 0 are called weak topological insulators (WTIs), while the (0, 000)
system is a normal insulator (NI). This classification is also
appropriate for our case. The Z₂ topological number for a 3D bulk system
can be obtained by

  Pairing        T_(c) (K)        α        γ_(n) (mJ mol⁻¹ K⁻²)
  ------------- ----------- ------------- ----------------------
  One s wave       5.95           1                8.5
  One d wave       5.85         1.25                9
  Two s waves      5.95      (0.3, 1.06)        (1.5, 7.3)

Table 1: Fit parameters obtained by using different models of SC pairing
symmetry [see Fig. 4(b)].

Figure 4: (a) ΔC versus T. Here ΔC = C − C_(n), with C_(n) being the
heat capacity in the normal state. (b) The lower panel shows an enlarged
view of the low-T region, where ΔC(T) is fit by using different
gap-symmetry functions.

Figure 5: Electronic band-structure calculations for TaOsSi (a) without
accounting for SOC and (b) including SOC.

calculating the Wilson loop for the six time-reversal-invariant momentum
planes: k_(x) = 0, π; k_(y) = 0, π; and k_(z) = 0, π. For TaOsSi the Z₂
invariant numbers are 1 for the k_(x) = π; k_(y) = 0, π; and k_(z) = π
planes, and 0 for the other planes. The resulting topological index is
(0, 111), which indicates that TaOsSi is a _weak topological material_
in all three reciprocal-lattice directions. Unlike "strong" topological
insulators, which in an ARPES experiment exhibit large gaps at
high-symmetry points, as a "weak" TI, TaOsSi is expected to show
additional topological surface states (TSSs) [44].

Besides investigating TaOsSi in standard conditions, we studied some of
its properties also under applied pressure, the latter representing a
clean way to tune the material properties. The effects of pressure on
topological materials have already been studied in several cases [45,
46, 47, 48]. For instance, the topological insulator Bi₂Se₃ displays a
superconducting and, successively, a structural phase transition under
applied pressure. In our case, we studied the pressure effect on the
TaOsSi resistivity. Figure 7(a) shows the temperature dependence of
resistivity at different pressures, from nearly ambient pressure up to
50 GPa. With increasing pressure, drastic changes are observed in the
normal-state resistivity, especially in the 0-5 GPa range. Also, the
superconducting transition changes, first by gradually decreasing (for
p ≲ 26 GPa) and then by increasing slightly, as the pressure continues
to increase [Fig. 7(a), inset]. The pressure-dependent superconducting
transition temperature T_(c)(p) is shown in Fig. 7(b). The observed
"V-shaped" dependence of T_(c) might be due to possible phase
transitions across the investigated pressure range.

## IV Conclusion

In summary, we studied the upper critical field, the superconducting
gap, the band structure, and the pressure effects on the recently
discovered TaOsSi superconductor (T_(c) ≈ 5.8 K). The upward behavior of
its H_(c2)(T) curve implies a multiband superconductivity, further
confirmed by calorimetric studies, which indeed indicate the existence
of two superconducting gaps. Both gaps, $\Delta_{1}=0.53k_{\rm B}T_{c}$
and $\Delta_{2}=1.87k_{\rm B}T_{c}$, are compatible with the
weak-coupling BCS limit. More intriguingly, first-principles DFT
calculations indicate the existence of Dirac points and topological
surface states. These results suggest that TaOsSi is a system where
multiband superconductivity coexists with topological surface states,
which quite resembles the case in S-doped MoTe₂[49]. In
MoTe_(2 − x)S_(x), a clearly larger gap than the bulk superconducting
gaps was observed on the sample surface. Whether the large gap results
from the interaction between the multigap superconductivity and
topological surface states is still a open question. Further theoretical
and experimental studies are needed. Nevertheless, similar to
MoTe_(2 − x)S_(x), TaOsSi may also provide a new platform in the search
for topological superconductors or Majorana fermions. Future local-probe
experiments are expected to shed more light on the interesting
properties of TaOsSi.

###### Acknowledgements.

This work was sponsored by the National Natural Science Foundation of
China (Grants No. U1732162, No. 11504182, No. 11704047, No. U1832147,
No. U1932217, No. 11504329, No. 11674054, and No. 11974061), the
Strategic Priority Research Program (B) of the Chinese Academy of
Sciences (Grant No. XDB25000000) and the National Key R&D Program of
China (Grant No. 2018YFA0704300).

Figure 6: (a) Bulk and surface first Brillouin zone, illustrating the
high-symmetry points. (b) 3D bulk Fermi surfaces and color-coded Fermi
velocities (blue is low velocity). (c) Calculated Fermi surfaces at the
k_(x) = 0 plane. (d) Surface-state spectra at a (100) section; bright
red lines denote surface states.

Figure 7: (a) Temperature-dependent resistivity for different applied
pressures. The inset is an enlarged view near the superconducting
transition. (b) Pressure dependence of the superconducting transition
temperature. T_(c)(onset) and T_(c)(zero) refer to the onset of SC
transition and to the zero-resistivity SC transition temperature,
respectively. The inset shows the resistivity vs pressure, measured at
10 and 300 K.

T.S. was in part supported by the Swiss National Science Foundation
under Grant No. 200021-169455.

## References

* Sato and Ando [2017]M. Sato and Y. Ando, Topological superconductors:
A review, Rep. Prog. Phys. **80**, 7 (2017). * Leignse and Flensberg
[2012]M. Leignse and K. Flensberg, Introduction to topological
superconductivity and Majorana Fermions, Semicond. Sci. Technol. **27**,
124003 (2012). * Qi and Zhang [2011]X.-L. Qi and S.-C. Zhang,
Topological insulators and superconductors, Rev. Mod. Phys. **83**, 1057
(2011). * Hasan and Kane [2010]M. Z. Hasan and C. L. Kane, Topological
insulators, Rev. Mod. Phys. **82**, 3045 (2010). * Kitaev [2001]A. Y.
Kitaev, Unpaired Majorana Fermions in quantum wires, Phys. Usp. **44**,
131 (2001). * Beenakker [2013]C. W. J. Beenakker, Search for Majorana
Fermions in superconductors, Annu. Rev. Condens. Matter Phys. **4**, 113
(2013). * Read and Green [2000]N. Read and D. Green, Paired states of
Fermions in two dimensions with breaking of parity and time-reversal
symmetries and the fractional quantum Hall effect, Phys. Rev. B **61**,
10267 (2000). * Hosur _et al._ [2011]P. Hosur, P. Ghaemi, R. S. K. Mong,
and A. Vishwanath, Majorana Modes at the Ends of Superconductor Vortices
in Doped Topological Insulators, Phys. Rev. Lett. **107**, 097001
(2011). * Fu and Kane [2008]L. Fu and C. L. Kane, Superconducting
Proximity Effect and Majorana Fermions at the Surface of a Topological
Insulator, Phys. Rev. Lett. **100**, 096407 (2008). * Pustogow _et al._
[2019]A. Pustogow, Y. Luo, A. Chronister, Y.-S. Su, D. A. Sokolov, F.
Jerzembeck, A. P. Mackenzie, C. W. Hicks, N. Kikugawa, S. Raghu, E. D.
Bauer, and S. E. Brown, Constraints on the superconducting order
parameter Sr₂RuO₄ from oxygen-17 nuclear magnetic resonance, Nature
(London) **574**, 72 (2019). * Mackenzie and Maeno [2003]A. P. Mackenzie
and Y. Maeno, The superconductivity of Sr₂RuO₄ and the physics of
spin-triplet pairing, Rev. Mod. Phys. **75**, 657 (2003). * Ueno _et
al._ [2013]Y. Ueno, A. Yamakage, Y. Tanaka, and M. Sato,
Symmetry-Protected Majorana Fermions in Topological Crystalline
Superconductors: Theory and Application to Sr₂RuO₄, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**111**, 087002 (2013). * Tmai _et al._ [2013]Y. Tmai, K. Wakabayashi,
and M. Sigrist, Topological and edge state properties of a three-band
model for Sr₂RuO₄, Phys. Rev. B **88**, 144503 (2013). * Matano _et al._
[2016]K. Matano, M. Kriener, K. Segawa, Y. Ando, and G.-q. Zheng,
Spin-rotation symmetry breaking in the superconducting state of
Cu₄Bi₂Se₃, Nat. Phys. **12**, 852 (2016). * Das _et al._ [2011]P. Das,
Y. Suzuki, M. Tachiki, and K. Kadowaki, Spin-triplet vortex state in the
topological superconductor Cu₄Bi₂Se₃, Phys. Rev. B **83**, 220513(R)
(2011). * Fu and Berg [2010]L. Fu, and E. Berg, Odd-Parity Topological
Superconductors: Theory and Application to Cu₄Bi₂Se₃, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**105**, 097001 (2010). * Nishiyama _et al._ [2007]M. Nishiyama, Y.
Inada, and G.-q. Zheng, Spin Triplet Superconducting State due to Broken
Inversion Symmetry in Li₂Pt₃B, Phys. Rev. Lett. **98**, 047002 (2007). *
Harada _et al._ [2012]S. Harada, J. J. Zhou, Y. G. Yao, Y. Inada, and
G.-q. Zheng, Abrupt enhancement of noncentrosymmetry and appearance of a
spin-triplet superconducting state in Li₂(Pd_(1 − x)Pt_(x))₃B beyond
x = 0.8, Phys. Rev. B **86**, 220502(R) (2012). * Xu _et al._ [2016]S.
Y. Guan, P. J. Chen, M. W. Chu, R. Sankar, F. C. Chou, H. T. Jeng, C. S.
Chang, and T. M. Chuang, Superconducting topological surface states in
the noncentrosymmetric bulk superconductor PbTaSe₂, Sci. Adv. **2**,
e1600894 (2016). * Chang _et al._ [2016]T. R. Chang, P. J. Chen, G.
Bian, S. M. Huang, H. Zheng, T. Neupert, R. Sankar, S. Y. Xu, I.
Belopolski, G. Q. Chang, B. Wang, F. C. Chou, A. Bansil, H. T. Jeng, H.
Lin, and M. Z. Hasan, Topological Dirac surface states and
superconducting pairing correlations in PbTaSe₂, Phys. Rev. B **93**,
245130 (2016). * Sakano _et al._ [2015]M. Sakano, K. Okawa, M. Kanou, H.
Sanjo, T. Okuda, T. Sasagawa, and K. Ishizaka, Topologically protected
surface states in a centrosymmetric superconductor β-PdBi₂, Nat. Commun.
**6**, 8595 (2015). * Biswas _et al._ [2016]P. K. Biswas, D. G. Mazzone,
R. Sibille, E. Pomjakushina, K. Conder, H. Luetkens, C. Baines, J. L.
Gavilano, M. Kenzelmann, A. Amato, and E. Morenzoni, Fully gapped
superconductivity in the topological superconductor β-PdBi₂, Phys. Rev.
B **93**, 220504(R) (2016). * Xiao _et al._ [2018]H. Xiao, T. Hu, W.
Liu, Y. L. Zhu, P. G. Li, G. Mu, J. Su, K. Li, and Z. Q. Mao,
Superconductivity in the half-Heusler compound PbPdBi, Phys. Rev. B
**97**, 224511 (2018). * Pavlosiuk _et al._ [2015]O. Pavlosiuk, D.
Kaczorowski, and P. Wisniewski, Shubnikov-de Haas oscillations, weak
antilocalization effect and large linear magnetoresistance in the
putative topological superconductor LuPdBi, Sci. Rep. **5**, 9158
(2015). * Liu _et al._ [2011]C. Liu, Y. Lee, T. Kondo, E. D. Mun, M.
Caudle, B. N. Harmon, Sergey L. Bud’ko, P. C. Canfield, and A. Kaminski,
Metallic surface electronic state in half-Heusler compounds RPtBi (R=
Lu, Dy, Gd), Phys. Rev. B **83**, 205133 (2011). * Benndorf _et al._
[2017]C. Benndorf, L. Hletta, G. Heymann, H. Huppertz, H. Eckert, and R.
Pottgen, NbOsSi and TaOsSi – Two new superconducting ternary osmium
silicides, Solid State Sci. **68**, 32 (2017). * Blaha _et al._ [2010]P.
Blaha, K. Schwarz, G. Madsen, D. Kvasnicka, and J. Luitz, WIEN2K, _An
Augmented Plane Wave Plus Local Orbital Program for Calculating Crystal
Properties_ (Vienna, University of Technology, Vienna, 2010). * Perdew
_et al._ [1996]J. P. Perdew, K. Burke, and M. Ernzerhof, Generalized
Gradient Approximation Made Simple, Phys. Rev. Lett. **77**, 3865
(1996). * Mostofi _et al._ [2014]A. A. Mostofi, J. R. Yates, G. Pizzi,
Y. S. Lee, I. Souza, D. Vanderbilt, and N. Marzari, An updated version
of wannier90: A tool for obtaining maximally-localised Wannier
functions, Comput. Phys. Commun. **185**, 2309 (2014). * Wu _et al._
[2018]Q. S. Wu, S. N. Zhang, H. F. Song, M. Troyer, and A. A. Soluyanov,
WannierTools: An open-source software package for novel topological
materials, Comput. Phys. Commun. **224**, 405 (2018). * Lin _et al._
[2015]X. Lin, B. Fauque, and K. Behnia, Scalable T² resistivity in a
small single-component Fermi surface, Science **349**, 945 (2015). *
Haque and Hossain [2019]E. Haque and M. A. Hossain, Elastic, electronic,
thermodynamic and transport properties of XOsSi (X= Nb, Ta)
superconductor: First-principles calculations, J. Alloys Compd. **739**,
737 (2018). * [33] A. C. Jacko, J. O. Fjarestad, and B. J. Powell, A
unified explanation of the Kadowaki-Woods ratio in strongly correlated
metals, Nat. Phys. **5**, 422 (2009). * [34] C. Q. Xu, W. Zhou, R.
Sankar, X. Z. Xing, Z. X. Shi, Z. D. Han, B. Qian, J. H. Wang, Z. W.
Zhu, J. L. Zhang, A. F. Bangura, N. E. Hussey, and X. F. Xu, Enhanced
electron correlations in the binary stannide PdSn₄: A homologue of the
Dirac nodal arc semimetal PdSn₄, Phys. Rev. Mater. **1**, 064201
(2017). * [35] O. F. de Lima, R. A. Ribeiro, M. A. Avila, C. A. Cardoso,
and A. A. Coelho, Anisotropic Superconducting Properties of Aligned MgB₂
Crystallites, Phys. Rev. Lett. **86**, 5974 (2001). * [36] F. Hunte, J.
Jaroszynski, A. Gurevich, D. C. Larbalestier, R. Jin, A. S. Sefat, M. A.
McGuire, B. C. Sales, D. K. Christen, and D. Mandrus, Two-band
superconductivity in LaFeAsO_(0.88)F_(0.11) at very high magnetic
fields, Nature (London) **453**, 903 (2008). * [37] X. Z. Xing, W. Zhou,
J. H. Wang, Z. W. Zhu, Y. F. Zhang, N. Zhou, B. Qian, X. F. Xu, and Z.
X. Shi, Two-band and Pauli-limiting effects on the upper critical field
of 112-type iron pnictide superconductors, Sci. Rep. **7**, 45943
(2017). * [38] J. R. Wang, X. F. Xu, N. Zhou, L. Li, X. Z. Cao, J. H.
Yang, Y. K. Li, C. Cao, J. H. Dai, J. L. Zhang, Z. X. Shi, B. Chen, and
Z. H. Yang, Upward Curvature of the Upper Critical Field and the
V-Shaped Pressure Dependence of T_(c) in the Noncentrosymmetric
Superconductor PbTaSe₂, J. Supercond. Novel Magn. **28**, 3173 (2015). *
[39] A. Gurevich, Enhancement of the upper critical field by nonmagnetic
impurities in dirty two-gap superconductors, Phys. Rev. B **67**, 184515
(2003). * [40] O. J. Taylor, A. Carrington, and J. A. Schlueter,
Specific-Heat Measurements of the Gap Structure of the Organic
Superconductors κ-(ET)₂Cu[N(CN)₂]Br and κ-(ET)₂Cu(NCS)₂, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **99**, 057001 (2007). * [41] X. Xu, B. Chen, W. H. Jiao, B. Chen,
C. Q. Niu, Y. K. Li, J. H. Yang, A. F. Bangura, Q. L. Ye, C. Cao, J. H.
Dai, G. Cao, and N. E. Hussey, Evidence for two energy gaps and Fermi
liquid behavior in the SrPt₂As₂ superconductor, Phys. Rev. B **87**,
224507 (2013). * [42] H. Padamsee, J. E. Neighbor, and C. A. Shiffman,
Quasiparticle phenomenology for thermodynamics of strong-coupling
superconductors, J. Low Temp. Phys. **12**, 387 (1973). * [43] L. Fu and
C. L. Kane, Topological insulators with inversion symmetry, Phys. Rev. B
**76**, 045302 (2007). * [44] R. Noguchi, T. Takahashi, K. Kuroda, M.
Ochi, T. Shirasawa, M. Sakano, C. Bareille, M. Nakayama, M. D. Watson,
K. Yaji, A. Harasawa, H. Iwasawa, P. Dudin, T. K. Kim, M. Hoesch, V.
Kandyba, A. Giampietti, A. Barinov, S. Shin, R. Arita, T. Sasagawa and
T. Kondo, A weak topological insulator state in quasi-one-dimensional
bismuth iodide, Nature (London) **566**, 518 (2019). * [45] P. P. Kong,
J. L. Zhang, S. J. Zhang, J. Zhu, Q. Q. Liu, R. C. Yu, Z. Fang, C. Q.
Jin, W. G. Yang, X. H. Yu, J. Zhu, and Y. S. Zhao, Superconductivity of
the topological insulator Bi₂Se₃ at high pressure, J. Phys.: Condens.
Matter **25**, 362204 (2013). * [46] C. Q. Xu, B. Li, M. R. van Delft,
W. H. Jiao, W. Zhou, B. Qian, Nikolai D. Zhigadlo, Dong Qian, R. Sankar,
N. E. Hussey, and Xiaofeng Xu, Extreme magnetoresistance and
pressure-induced superconductivity in the topological semimetal
candidate YBi, Phys. Rev. B **99**, 024110 (2019). * [47] Y. Qi, W. J.
Shi, P. Werner, P. G. Naumov, W. Schnelle, L. Wang, K. G. Rana, S.
Parkin, S. Medvedev, B. Yan, and C. Felser, Pressure-induced
superconductivity and topological quantum phase transitions in a
quasi-one-dimensional topological insulator: Bi₄I_(x), npj Quantum
Mater. **3**, 1 (2018). * [48] Y. T. Chan, P. L. Alireza, K. Y. Yip, Q.
Niu, K. T. Lai, and S. K. Goh, Nearly isotropic superconductivity in the
layered Weyl semimetal WTe₂ at 98.5 kbar, Phys. Rev. B **96**, 180504(R)
(2017). * [49] Y. Li, Q. Gu, C. Chen, J. Zhang, Q. Liu, X. Hu, J. Liu,
Y. Liu, L. Li, M. Tian, Y. Wang, N. Samarth, S. Li, T. Zhang, J. Feng,
and J. Wang, Nontrivial superconductivity in topological
MoTe_(2 − x)S_(x) crystals, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA **115**, 9503
(2018).
