Nonmagnetic ground state of the superconductor PrPt₂B₂C and magnetic
pairbreaking in La_(0.9)_F_0.1Pt₂B₂C (_R_ = Ce, Pr, Nd)

S. K. Dhar,¹ A. D. Chinchure,^(1, *) R. Nagarajan,¹ S. M. Pattalwar,¹ L.
C. Gupta,¹ E. Alleno,² and C. Godart²

¹Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, Homi Bhabha Road, Mumbai 400
005, India

²C.N.R.S. UPR 209, ISCSA, F-94320 Thiais, France

Received 28 October 2001; published 29 March 2002

###### Abstract

PrPt₂B₂C is an unusual superconducting member (_T_(c)∼_6 K) of
quaternary borocarbide family. At high temperatures, Pr ions are found
to carry magnetic moment, but so far no magnetic order is reported. We
have investigated the nature of the electronic ground state of this
material (nominal composition PrPt_(2.1)B_(2.4)C_(1.2)) through magnetic
and heat capacity studies. We confirm that PrPt₂B₂C exhibits _bulk_
superconductivity below 6 K. Our studies show that (non-Kramers) Pr ions
at low temperatures are in the crystal field split singlet ground state
(nonmagnetic) and there is no indication of an induced magnetic moment.
In the nonmagnetic analogue superconductor LaPt₂B₂C (_T_(c)∼_10.5 K), we
have studied magnetic pairbreaking by magnetic ions Ce, Pr, and Nd. We
find severe pair-breaking caused by Ce ions suggesting an enhanced
Ce-4f-conduction electron hybridization.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.65.132519 PACS number(s): 74.70.Dd, 75.20.Hr,
75.30.Mb, 75.40.−s

## I Introduction

Following the discovery of superconductivity in Ni-based quaternary
borocarbides _R_Ni₂B₂C (_R_ = rare earth),¹ ⁻ ³ Pt-based quaternary
borocarbides _R_Pt₂B₂C (_R_ = La, Ce, Pr, Nd, and Y) were also found.⁴
Although they are structurally similar to the extensively studied
Ni-based quaternaries _R_Ni₂B₂C (LuNi₂B₂C-type tetragonal structure⁵),
there are significant differences between the two series. In _R_Ni₂B₂C,
superconductivity occurs in materials with R = Dy, Ho, Er, Tm, and Lu,
belonging to the _latter half_ of the rare earth series.^(3, 6) On the
other hand, for _R_Pt₂B₂C, superconductivity occurs in the _earlier
half_ of the rare earth series–in LaPt₂B₂C (_T_(c)∼_10.5 K) (Ref. 4) and
PrPt₂B₂C (_T_(c)∼_6 K).⁴ Interestingly, in both the series, for
nonmagnetic Y, which from the size point of view is generally assumed to
behave as a heavy rare earth ion, both the Ni and Pt members show
superconductivity (_T_(c)∼_15.5 and ∼_10 K, respectively). Further, in
the material aspect also there is a significant difference. Unlike Ni
compounds, which readily form in the stoichiometric ratio 1:2:2:1, the
Pt compounds do not form in single phase when prepared in the same
ratio.⁴ In order to stabilize the LuNi₂B₂C-type phase, either one has to
partially substitute Pt by Au, such as LaPt_(1.5)Au_(0.6)B₂C (Ref. 7) or
have off stoichiometry in Pt, B, and C, such as
LaPt_(2.1)B_(2.4)C_(1.2).⁸

Occurrence of superconductivity in PrPt₂B₂C is one of the most
fascinating features of the Pt-based borocarbides, as there are not many
Pr-based superconducting compounds. For instance, among high-_T_(c)_
cuprates, superconductivity is absent in PrBa₂Cu₃O₇. In addition, this
material has anomalously high Pr-magnetic ordering temperature. Precise
nature of the electronic state of Pr ions in this material is still
under discussion.⁹ More relevant in the present context, is the example
of nonsuperconducting PrNi₂B₂C, where the absence of superconductivity
may be primarily due to the effect of ionic size/band-structure
effects¹⁰ though presence of 4f-conduction electron hybridization has
also been shown in this material.^(9, 11, 12) PrRh₄B₄ (which forms under
pressure) is a rare example of Pr compounds which exhibit
superconductivity (_T_(c)∼_4.6 K). It also undergoes a magnetic
transition at _T_(N)∼_1.6 K.¹³

As several other members of the borocarbide family exhibit coexistence
of magnetism and superconductivity, it is of interest to know the nature
of the crystal field split ground state of the Pr ions in PrPt₂B₂C. A
crystal field split nonmagnetic singlet ground state, which is possible
in Pr³⁺, will not result in any magnetic ordering if a magnetic moment
is not induced by exchange interaction.¹²

The above considerations motivated us to investigate the ground state of
Pr ions in PrPt₂B₂C. We succeeded in preparing single phase material
with the starting composition PrPt_(2.1)B_(2.4)C_(1.2) and we present
here the results of our measurements. For comparison, the corresponding
nonmagnetic analog LaPt_(2.1)B_(2.4)C_(1.2) was also prepared and
studied. Further, we have also investigated the pair-breaking effect by
dilute Ce, Pr, and Nd ions in LaPt₂B₂C.

## II Experimental

As mentioned above, we have used the off stoichiometry method⁸ for
preparing LuNi₂B₂C-type phase stabilized samples. Starting nominal
composition of our samples was _R_Pt_(2.1)B_(2.4)C_(1.2) (_R_ = La, Pr).
This was also the case for the doped materials
La_(0.9)R_(0.1)Pt_(2.1)B_(2.4)C_(1.2) (_R_ = rare earth). The
constituents were taken in the desired atomic ratio and were arc melted
under argon atmosphere. The samples were melted six times and were
flipped over each time before the next melting. Loss in weight after the
final melting was <1

## III Results and Discussion

Powder x-ray diffraction data (XRD) for the samples confirmed the
formation of the LuNi₂B₂C-type tetragonal phase in these alloys. For
further discussion, we shall refer to our samples as _R_Pt₂B₂C. Figure 1
shows XRD patterns for LaPt₂B₂C, La_(0.9)Ce_(0.1)Pt₂B₂C, and PrPt₂B₂C
(curves have been shifted up for clarity). Lattice parameters were
refined using least squares fitting technique, values of the a and c
parameters of the centered tetragonal structure are also given in the
figure. The impurity phase was <1

### Superconductivity and nature of the ground state of Pr ions in
PrPt₂B₂C

Figure 2 (top) shows the resistivity of _R_Pt₂B₂C (_R_ = La, Pr) and
La_(0.9)_R_(0.1)Pt₂B₂C (_R_ = Ce, Pr, Nd) as a function of temperature
from 300 K down to 2 K. An enlarged view of the resistivity below 15 K
is shown in Fig. 2 (bottom). Room temperature resistivity of PrPt₂B₂C (∼
350 μl cm) is rather high compared to that of other materials studied
here and so is the residual resistivity ∼ 200 μΩ cm (the resistivity
just above the onset temperature, _T${}_{c.\rm{on}}$_ in the case of
superconducting Pr compound). We believe that high value of resistivity
may have appreciable contribution from the sample dependent
microstructure. The low-temperature resistivity data of PrPt₂B₂C show
clearly the occurrence of superconductivity with _T${}_{c.\rm{on}}$_∼_6
K (_T${}_{c.\rm{on}}$_∼_4.4 K). Evidence for bulk superconductivity in
Pr compound is further confirmed by our zero-field-cooled low field
magnetization data (Fig. 3). The _T_(c)_ observed by us in PrPt₂B₂C and
in LaPt₂B₂C (_T_(c)_∼ 10.5 K) are in reasonable agreement with those
reported in the literature.[4]

Figure 4: The inverse susceptibility of PrPt₂B₂C in 5 kOe between 1.8
and 300 K. The upper inset shows M/H in fields of 5 and 50 kOe. The
lower inset shows the magnetization at 2 and 10 K in fields up to 55
kOe.

Figure 2: The resistivity of _R_Pt₂B₂C (_R_ = La, Pr) and
La_(0.9)_R_(0.1)Pt₂B₂C (_R_ = Ce, Pr, Nd) from 2 to 300 K (top), and
enlarged view of the same below 15 K (bottom).

Figure 4 shows inverse susceptibility versus temperature of PrPt₂B₂C
measured in a field of 5 kOe. Above 100 K, the susceptibility χ follows
a Curie-Weiss behavior. The data were least squares fit to the
expression χ = C/(T − θ_(p)). The effective moment $\mu_{\rm eff}$
derived from C, is 3.63 μ_(B)/Pr ion, and the paramagnetic Curie
temperature θ_(p) is − 33 K. The value of $\mu_{\rm eff}$ is close to
the value of the magnetic moment of free Pr³⁺ ion (3.58μ_(B)). The large
negative θ_(p) indicates dominant antiferromagnetic exchange interaction
between the Pr ions but we do not observe any magnetic ordering down to
1.7 K in this compound. The relatively large value of θ_(p) may
therefore be due to crystal field effects. The sharp upturn in the
inverse susceptibility below 3 K (seen as a corresponding sharp drop in
M/H in the upper inset of Fig. 4) is due to superconductivity. At 2 K,
the sample is diamagnetic up to nearly 5 kOe and attains paramagnetic
nature at higher fields (lower inset, Fig. 4). Considering that there
may be some paramagnetic contribution due to Pr ions, H_(c2) at 2 K may
be >5 kOe. The nearly temperature independent M at low temperatures in
50 kOe (>H_(c2) at 2 K) (upper inset Fig. 4) indicates that the crystal
field split ground state is a nonmagnetic singlet. We note that the
observed low temperature value of susceptibility is comparable to that
reported in singlet ground state system PrIn₃.[14]

Heat capacity C of PrPt₂B₂C and LaPt₂B₂C is shown in Fig. 5 as C/T
versus T². The inset in Fig. 5 shows C versus T up to 50 K in both
LaPt₂B₂C and PrPt₂B₂C. The anomaly in the form of a broad hump,
beginning at 5 and 10 K for PrPt₂B₂C and LaPt₂B₂C, respectively,
corresponds to the superconducting transitions in these compounds and
confirms the bulk nature of superconductivity. The jump in the heat
capacity is not sharp at the transitions and the anomaly is broad
reflecting the width of broad superconducting transition as seen in the
resistivity and magnetization data discussed above. The heat capacity
data of PrPt₂B₂C is consistent with the nonmagnetic ground state of the
Pr ions. At a magnetic transition the heat capacity typically shows a
huge peak with a magnitude of several J/mol K. Such a feature is not
seen in our data taken between 1.8 and 60 K. The heat capacity decreases
monotonically with temperature and has a low value of 32 mJ/mol K at 1.8
K. This low value of C indicates that Pr ions are not likely to order
even at lower temperatures. If Pr ions were to order magnetically below
1.8 K, an upturn would have been seen in the heat capacity precursor to
the magnetic transition. This conclusion receives further support from a
comparison of the heat capacity of PrPt₂B₂C with that of the nonmagnetic
reference analog LaPt₂B₂C (Fig. 5). At low temperatures, though the heat
capacity of PrPt₂B₂C is higher than that of the nonmagnetic La analog,
they have comparable values, clearly pointing out the nonmagnetic nature
of Pr ions at low temperature. We, thus, conclude from our magnetization
and heat capacity data that Pr ions are in the nonmagnetic singlet
ground state in PrPt₂B₂C. The difference in the heat capacity of the Pr
and La compounds becomes appreciable above 10 K. The excess heat
capacity in the Pr compound that persists up to at least 50 K is the
Schottky contribution to the heat capacity from the excited crystal
field levels.

### Pair breaking in LaPt₂B₂C

It is of general interest to study Cooper pair breaking by magnetic ions
in a superconductor. Such a study in La_(0.9)_R__(0.1)Pt₂B₂C is
appealing as LaPt₂B₂C has a rather high T_(c) and because Ce and Pr ions
exhibit anomalous behavior in their respective RPt₂B₂C (R = Ce and Pr)
compounds. Our investigation here is limited to only R = Ce, Pr, and Nd,
since, as mentioned above, we could get single-phase materials for these
substitutions only. Figure 3 shows the results of our low field
magnetization data in these samples.

The depression of T_(c) due to 10

The depression of T_(c) in Ce doped sample is dramatic. As can be seen
from Figs. 2 and 3, superconductivity is suppressed by 10

Figure 5: The heat capacity C of PrPt₂B₂C and LaPt₂B₂C as C/T versus T².
The inset shows the heat capacity of the two compounds up to 50 K.

free ionic state. However, we should point out that CePt₂B₂C does
exhibit an unusual behavior: Its magnetic susceptibility over a wide
range of temperature follows a Curie-Weiss behavior but it does not
order magnetically at least down to 2 K. Rather high (∼ − 60 K)
paramagnetic Curie temperature suggests the presence of spin
fluctuations in CePt₂B₂C. Further, resistivity of La_(0.9)Ce_(0.1)Pt₂B₂C
sample shows a rise below 20 K (Fig. 2) suggesting occurrence of Kondo
effect, possibly with rather low Kondo temperature (T_(K)∼ 10 K). We
suggest that spin fluctuation effects arising from 4f-electron
hybridization with conduction electrons are responsible for the
suppression of superconductivity in La_(0.9)Ce_(0.1)Pt₂B₂C.

The anomalous nature of the suppression of superconductivity by Ce in
the Pt system is further emphatically seen from the fact that 10

With the condition that T_(K) is comparable or smaller than T_(c) , one
may see a reentrance of superconductivity due to the Kondo effect in
La_(1 − x)Ce_(x)Pt₂B₂C as has been seen, for example, in
La_(1 − x)Ce_(x)Al₂.[19] It would be therefore very interesting to carry
out a systematic study of this system to look for the possible reentrant
superconductivity.

## IV Conclusion

Superconductivity in PrPt₂B₂C is indeed quite remarkable considering
that only a few Pr-based materials are known to be superconducting. From
magnetization and heat capacity measurements, we have shown that
superconductivity in PrPt₂B₂C is _bulk_ in nature. Our results indicate
a crystal field split singlet ground state with no indication of induced
magnetic moment and therefore magnetic order is unlikely. As the 4f
conduction electron hybridization has been suggested to be one of the
reasons for the nonexistence of superconductivity in PrNi₂B₂C and
because the same phenomenon is responsible for the drastic suppression
of T_(c) by Ce ions in LaPt₂B₂C, we conclude that 4f-conduction electron
hybridization is negligible in PrPt₂B₂C.

The depression of T_(c) by Ce ions is anomalously large even though Ce
ions appear to be in 3+ state in CePt₂B₂C. We interpret this as due to
the hybridization of Ce-4f^(f) conduction electrons. We have pointed out
the striking similarity of CePt₂B₂C with YbNi₂B₂C.

## Acknowledgments

Part of this work was carried out under Project No. 1808 of Indo-French
Center for Promotion of Advanced Research, New Delhi. We acknowledge
valuable technical help of S.K. Paghdar, in some of the sample
preparations and measurements.

## References

* [1] Chandan Mazumdar _et al._, Solid State Commun. **87**, 413
(1993). * [2] R. Nagarajan _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **72**, 274
(1994). * [3] R. J. Cava _et al._, Nature (London) **367**, 252
(1994). * [4] R. J. Cava _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **49**, 12 384 (1994). *
[5] T. Siegrist _et al._, Nature (London) **367**, 254 (1994). * [6] Z.
Hossain _et al._, IEEE Trans. Magn. **31**, 4133 (1995); B. K. Cho _et
al._, Phys. Rev. B **52**, R3844 (1995); C. V. Tony _et al._, Physica C
**248**, 349 (1995). * [7] R. J. Cava _et al._, Physica C **226**, 170
(1994). * [8] M. Buchgeister _et al._, Physica C **255**, 19 (1995). *
[9] V. N. Narozhnyi _et al._, in _Proceedings of the NATO-ARW_, Rare
Earth Transition Metal Borocarbides (Nitrides): Superconducting,
Magnetic and Normal State Properties, Dresden, Germany 2000, edited by
K.-H. Muller and V. Narozhnyi, Vol. 14 of _NATO Science Series II:
Mathematics, Physics and Chemistry_ (Kluwer Academic Publishers,
Dordrecht, 2001), p. 171, and references therein. * [10] M. Divis _et
al._, Phys. Rev. B **62**, 6774 (2000). * [11] V. N. Narozhnyi and K.-H.
Muller, Rep. Prog. Phys. **64**, 943 (2001). * [12] V. N. Narozhnyi _et
al._, Physica C **364-365**, 571 (2001). * [13] K. Kumugai _et al._,
Physica B **148**, 133 (1987). * [14] K. H. J. Buschow _et al._, J.
Chem. Phys. **50**, 137 (1969). * [15] Z. Hossain _et al._, Physica B
**230-232**, 865 (1997). * [16] Chandan Mazumdar, E. Alleno, O. Sologub,
P. Salamakha, H. Noel, M. Potel, Arvind. D. Chinchure, R. Nagarajan, L.
C. Gupta, and C. Godart, J. Alloys Compd. (to be published). * [17] S.
K. Dhar _et al._, Solid State Commun. **98**, 985 (1996). * [18] S. A.
Carter _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **51**, 12 829 (1995). * [19] M. B. Maple
_et al._, in _Handbook on the Physics and Chemistry of Rare Earths_,
edited by K. A. Gschneidner, Jr. and L. Eyring (North-Holland,
Amsterdam, 1978), Chap. 11.
