# Raising the superconducting T_(c) of gallium:

_In situ_ characterization of the transformation of α-Ga into β-Ga

D. Campanini,¹ Z. Diao,^(1, 2) and A. Rydh^(1, *)

¹Department of Physics, Stockholm University, SE-106 91 Stockholm,
Sweden

²School of Information Technology, Halmstad University, Box 823, SE-301
18 Halmstad, Sweden

###### Abstract

Gallium (Ga) displays several metastable phases. Superconductivity is
strongly enhanced in the metastable β-Ga with a critical temperature
$T_{\rm c}=6.04(5)\,$K, while stable α-Ga has a much lower
$T_{\rm c}<1.2\,$K. Here we use a membrane-based nanocalorimeter to
initiate the transition from α-Ga to β-Ga on demand, as well as study
the specific heat of the two phases on one and the same sample. The _in
situ_ transformation is initiated by bringing the temperature to about
10 K above the melting temperature of α-Ga. After such treatment, the
liquid supercools down to 232 K, where β-Ga solidifies. We find that
β-Ga is a strong-coupling type-I superconductor with
$\Delta(0)/k_{\rm B}T_{\rm c}=2.00(5)$ and a Sommerfeld coefficient
$\gamma_{\rm a}=1.53(4)\,$mJ/molK², 2.55 times higher than that in the α
phase. The results allow a detailed comparison of fundamental
thermodynamic properties between the two phases.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.97.184517

184517

## I Introduction

Gallium is a metal with peculiar properties and very rich phase
diagrams, caused by an interplay between covalent and metallic bonding.
Like water, Ga expands as it freezes. The stable solid phase in ambient
conditions (α-Ga) has a melting point at 302.9 K [1] and is
superconducting below 1.08 K [2,3]. Several metastable phases with
different physical properties can, however, be produced at ambient
pressure by supercooling the melt. The most commonly obtained are the
β[4,5], γ[4,6], and δ-Ga [7]. Reports on six additional phases, obtained
under particular conditions, are also found [8, 9, 10, 11]. They are
characterized by different crystal structures, in turn leading to, e.g.,
different melting temperatures and superconducting critical
temperatures.

The crystal structures of α and β-Ga are given in Fig. 1. The stable
α-Ga has an orthorhombic unit cell [12], space group _Cmca_
($D_{\rm B}^{18}$), while β-Ga is monoclinic, space group _C2_/_c_
($C_{\rm B}^{6}$) [5]. In α-Ga, metallicity is coexisting with
covalently bonded Ga₂ dimers between nearest neighbors [13], while such
dimers are absent in β-Ga.

The metastable phases are typically obtained by dispersing small Ga
droplets in a solvent [4,5,9,14,15,16]. Once cooled, a droplet can
crystallize in one of the cited phases, with a probability to attain a
certain phase depending on the droplet size [15,16]. β-Ga is the most
commonly produced as it presents the least difference in energy from the
stable α phase [17]. Spherical droplets with diameters up to 500 μm have
been reported [18]. Larger β-Ga crystals, with sizes of several mm, can
be obtained under well-controlled conditions by crystallization of
liquid Ga from a β-Ga seed [19]. The samples are, however, easily
relaxing to the α phase if exposed to shocks or vibrations.

Due to the technical difficulties in handling metastable phases,
relatively little is known about β-Ga in comparison with α-Ga.
Low-temperature specific-heat data are so far not available. While it is
clear that Ga is a type-I superconductor in both phases, experimental
evidence is contradictory on whether β-Ga is a weak- or strong-coupling
superconductor [20, 21, 22]. In this paper, we obtain β-Ga from α-Ga
samples with sizes up to 150 μm and masses up to 100μg by supercooling
liquid Ga on top of a membrane-based nanocalorimeter in vacuum. The
specific heat of α- and β-Ga is measured from 315 K down to 1.2 K before
and after the _in situ_ recrystallization into the metastable phase.
This allows an accurate comparison of the specific heat and entropy of
the two phases. From the low-temperature specific-heat measurements we
determine the Sommerfeld coefficient $\gamma_{\rm b}$, the specific-heat
jump at the critical temperature $\Delta C/T_{\rm c}$, the
superconducting condensation energy ΔF(0), the temperature dependence of
the thermodynamic critical field $H_{\rm c}(T)$, and related quantities.
We conclude that β-Ga is a strong-coupling type-I superconductor with an
increased density of states and a phonon system with increased entropy.

## II Experimental details

Ga samples with sizes between 10 μm and 150 μm were prepared and
individually attached to a membrane-based ac-nanocalorimeter [23,24]
using a small amount of Apiezon-N grease, see inset of Fig. 2(a). The
measurements were performed with a fixed-phase variable-frequency method
under vacuum conditions to obtain good absolute accuracy. A thin-film
heater integrated on the device was used to locally control the sample
temperature, which was measured with a thin-film Ge_(1 − x)Au_(x)
thermometer in direct thermal contact with the sample [24]. The
transition into β-Ga was initiated by heating the sample to several
kelvin above the melting transition at $T_{\rm m,\alpha}=302.9\,$K.
After bringing the temperature back down to below T_(m, α), supercooling
was observed down to either 285 K, where solidification into the α phase
takes place, or all the way down to 232 K, with subsequent
solidification into β-Ga, if the liquid was initially heated to a high
enough temperature. At low temperatures, the specific heat was measured
in magnetic fields up to 100 mT to probe the superconducting properties
of β-Ga.

## III Results and discussion

The specific-heat signatures measured during two heating and cooling
cycles around the melting temperature T_(m, β) are shown in Fig. 2.

In Fig. 2(a), the sample is heated up to 313 K. Once cooled, its
solidifies back to the α phase at 285 K. When the same sample is instead
heated up to 317 K, it supercools all the way down to 232 K, see Fig.
2(b). If reheated again, the sample melts at the melting temperature
T_(m, β) = 257 K, a signature of β-Ga [4,8,9,14,18].

The temperature dependence of the specific heat, shown as C/T, as well
as the entropy S(T) = ∫₀^(T)(C/T^(′))dT^(′) for α- and β-Ga in the
studied temperature range are shown in Fig. 3.

The contribution from the grease and the device specific heat has been
independently measured and then subtracted. Melting can be seen as two
sharp peaks in C/T at 257 K and 302.9 K for β- and α-Ga, respectively,
due to the presence of latent heat. The entropy of the metastable β
phase lies above the stable α phase over the full temperature range. The
sharp steps at the melting temperatures in the entropy curves are due to
latent heat absorption. Latent heat for α-Ga at the melting point is
taken as L_(α) = T_(m, α) ⋅ ΔS(T_(m, α)) = 5585J/mol[25]. For the
entropy to be conserved in the common liquid state, the latent heat for
β-Ga at the melting point has to be
L_(β) = T_(m, β) ⋅ ΔS(T_(m, β)) = 2891J/mol. This value is about 10

The temperature dependence of the low-temperature specific heat for β-Ga
is shown in Fig. 4(a) as C/T in zero field and with 100 mT applied
magnetic field. The step associated with the superconducting transition
can be observed in the zero field curve at T_(c) = 6.04(5) K. No
transition is observed for an applied field of 100 mT. The 100 mT curve
is therefore taken as the normal state curve. The difference
ΔC/T = [C(0 mT) − C(100 mT)]/T = (C_(es) − C_(en))/T, where C_(es)

Figure 1: (a) Orthorhombic unit cell of α-Ga with eight atoms/cell. Two
Ga₂ dimers are represented in magenta. (b) Monoclinic unit cell of β-Ga
with four atoms/cell.

Figure 4: (a) Temperature dependence of the specific heat as C/T for
β-Ga at low temperatures in zero applied magnetic field (blue points)
and for a field of 100 mT (red points). (b) Temperature dependence of
ΔC/T = [C(0 mT) − C(100 mT)]/T. Inset: Temperature dependence of the
entropy difference ΔS between the superconducting and the normal state.
Dashed lines are extrapolations to zero temperature.

Figure 3: (a) Temperature dependence of the specific heat, shown as C/T,
over the full temperature range. (b) Temperature dependence of the
entropy.

indicates the electronic specific heat in the superconducting state and
C_(en) in the normal state, is reported in Fig. 4(b).

In the inset of Fig. 4(b), the entropy difference
ΔS(T) = ∫₀^(T)(ΔC/T^(′))dT^(′) is shown, setting ΔS(T_(c)) = 0.
Extrapolating to ΔS(0) = 0 leads to the low-temperature value
ΔC/T|_(T → 0) = −1.53 mJ/molK², shown in the main panel of Fig. 4(b).
The Sommerfeld term for β-Ga is thus γ_(n) = 1.53(4) mJ/molK², close to
estimations from critical field curves of Ref. [20] and around 2.55
times higher than that for α-Ga [2,27]. Obtaining γ_(n) in this way
avoids the effects of the contribution from the device and grease
addenda heat capacity. However, there is a possibility that γ_(n) is
underestimated if disorder or other effects make C_(es)/T|_(T → 0) ≠ 0.

We could not obtain the corresponding superconducting properties or
accurately estimate γ_(n) of α-Ga with our current experimental setup
because of the low T_(c) of α-Ga. Values from the literature are,
however, well known in this case. A more accurate determination of γ_(n)
of α-Ga from the normal state is hindered by a relatively large addenda
heat capacity in combination with a narrow temperature range of
Debye-like phonon specific heat.

From Fig. 4(b), the specific-heat jump of β-Ga at T_(c) can be directly
inferred: ΔC/T_(c) = 2.80(5) mJ/molK². The value ΔC/γ_(n)T_(c) = 1.83(7)
is substantially higher than the 1.43 typical of a BCS weak-coupling
superconductor. This indicates that the ratio α = Δ(0)/k_(B)T_(c), where
Δ(0) is the superconducting energy gap at zero temperature, should also
be higher than the BCS value α_(BCS) = 1.76. To verify this, the
electronic specific-heat C_(es) is fitted according to a single-gap
s-wave α model [28,29]. In this empirical model, C_(es) is described by
a BCS-like description, where α is not fixed to α_(BCS) but is an
adjustable parameter. A deviation from the experimental data is
calculated for each α and the least deviation fit is reported in Fig.
4(b). The resulting parameter α = 2.00(5) is well above α_(BCS) as
expected. In absolute terms, this corresponds to Δ(0) = 1.04(3) meV, in
good agreement with tunneling measurements [21,22] on thin films.

By integrating ΔC and ΔC/T down from T_(c), the free energy difference
between the superconducting and the normal state ΔF(T) is obtained.
Using the α-fit to extrapolate down to T = 0, we obtain
−ΔF(0) = 14.4(4) mJ/mol. The superconducting energy gap Δ(0) can be
estimated from the free energy ΔF(0) using the BCS relation:

$$-\Delta F(0)=\tfrac{1}{4}N(E_{\text{F}})\Delta^{2}(0).$$
(1)

From
$\gamma_{\text{n}}=\tfrac{\pi^{2}}{3}k_{\text{B}}^{2}N(E_{\text{F}})$,
the density of states at the Fermi energy N(E_(F)) can be estimated as
0.65(2) states/eVatom. A strong increase of N(E_(F)) in comparison with
α-Ga is in agreement with both theoretical predictions [17] and Knight
shift data [30]. Inserting this value into Eq. (1) gives
Δ(0)/k_(B)T_(c) = 1.83(3), which corresponds to a 9

It is possible to experimentally verify H_(c)(T) by studying the
specific heat in applied magnetic fields. The temperature dependence of
C_(c)/T for applied fields between 0 and 43 mT is shown in Fig. 5(a),
with low-field curves near the superconducting transition shown in Fig.
5(b). The location of the transition, taken as the middle of the step
for the different applied fields, is reported in the insets of Figs.
5(a) and 5(b) as black circles. As seen, the directly measured
transition, with an estimated μ₀H_(c)(0) = 46.5(1) mT, and
|dH_(c)^(*)/dT|_(T_(c)) = 13.1(2) mT/K, are about 15-20

The sharp, additional peak in the vicinity of the transition seen in
Fig. 5 is due to the latent heat of the transition, which is first order
in the presence of a magnetic field. By integrating the excess
specific-heat peak, it is possible to estimate the amount of latent heat
sensed by the calorimeter. For all fields up to 20 mT, it corresponds to
about half of the value calculated from ΔS of Fig. 4(b). For a thin slab
in parallel with the magnetic field, one would expect all the latent
heat to be released at H_(c)(T). However, due to the demagnetization
factor of the sample, some areas become normal before others and the
system is in a two-phase intermediate state over a certain temperature
range, extending all the way down to T = 0 for the highest fields. This
makes the determination of H_(c)(T) somewhat ambiguous. The strongest
demagnetization effect occurs at the low-temperature side of the latent
heat peak, where full Meissner screening is in place. We take H_(c)(T)
at the middle of the step, which remains fairly well-defined at all
fields.

The parameters obtained from our measurement for β-Ga are summarized in
Table 1. A comparison with α-Ga is given as well, using available data
from the literature. The

Figure 5: (a) Temperature dependence of the electronic specific heat as
C_(c)/T for applied magnetic fields between 0 and 43 mT. Inset:
Temperature dependence of the critical field H_(c). The hollow circles
correspond to the critical fields measured from the in-field curves. The
red curve is a parabolic fit according to
$H_{\text{c}}(T)=H_{\text{c}}(0)[1-(\frac{T}{T})^{2}]$. The black curve
corresponds to H_(c)(T) calculated from ΔF(T). (b) Temperature
dependence of the electronic specific heat as C_(c)/T for applied
magnetic fields between 0.1 and 4.1 mT. Inset: Temperature dependence of
the critical field H_(c) near T_(c). The black circles correspond to the
critical temperatures measured from the in-field curves. The red curve
is a linear fit.

density of states $N(E_{\rm F})$ obtained from specific heat through the
Sommerfeld coefficient represents the dressed/renormalized value.
Band-structure calculations, on the other hand, give the bare density of
states $N_{0}(E_{\rm F})$. For β-Ga,
$N_{0}(E_{\rm F})=0.42\,{\rm states/eVatom}$ agrees well with a simple
free-electron model [30]. For α-Ga, $N_{0}(E_{\rm F})$ is strongly
reduced in comparison to such a model because of a pronounced pseudogap
at the Fermi energy [13, 17, 33, 34]. It can be estimated as
$0.12\,{\rm states/eVatom}$ if considered to be approximately 3.5 times
smaller than that for β-Ga, as suggested by band-structure calculations
[17]. Both $N(E_{\rm F})$ values calculated in this way are lower than
the experimental values obtained from specific heat. If we assume that
the difference is coming from an effective mass enhancement m^(*)/m due
to electron-phonon coupling, the electron-boson renormalization
parameter λ can be estimated from
$m^{*}/m=1+\lambda=N(E_{\rm F})/N_{0}(E_{\rm F})$. This gives a
λ_(α) = 1.08 for α-Ga and λ_(β) = 0.55 for β-Ga.

In a renormalized BCS frame, $T_{\rm c}$ is given by three parameters
[37, 38]:

$$T_{\rm c}=1.134\cdot\theta_{\rm D}\exp\left[-\frac{1+\lambda}{\lambda-\mu^{*} (1+\lambda)}\right].$$
(2)

Here, $\theta_{\rm D}$ is the Debye temperature and μ^(*) is the Coulomb
pseudopotential coming from electron-electron interactions and opposing
superconductivity. The Debye temperature $\theta_{\rm D}$ for α- and
β-Ga can be evaluated by fitting C/T as a function of T² at low
temperatures. We obtain $\theta_{\rm D,\alpha}=350(20)\,{\rm K}$ and
$\theta_{\rm D,\beta}=120(20)\,{\rm K}$. We note that the apparent
$\theta_{\rm D}$ for both α- and β-Ga are temperature dependent, but
with opposite trends. For α-Ga the trend agrees with the observations in
Ref. [27]. Inserting $T_{\rm c}$, $\theta_{\rm D}$, and λ into Eq. (2),
we find μ_(α)^(*) = 0.35 and μ_(β)^(*) = 0.03 for α- and β-Ga,
respectively. Using McMillan’s formula [39] instead of Eq. (2) gives a
similar result. This analysis shows that neither $\theta_{\rm D}$ nor
the electron-boson renormalization parameter λ are at the origin of the
higher $T_{\rm c}$ for β-Ga. On the contrary, both parameters would tend
to give a higher $T_{\rm c}$ for α-Ga. Thus, for a consistent
description, the Coulomb pseudopotential μ^(*) has to be reduced from a
very high value for α-Ga to nearly zero for β-Ga, both deviating from
the value μ^(*) ≈ 0.1 that is normally used if μ^(*) is taken as an
unknown parameter. It seems unlikely that μ^(*) would be so large for
α-Ga. On the other hand, the assumption that μ^(*) = 0.1 would give
λ = 0.37 and λ = 0.73 for α-Ga and β-Ga, respectively. Such numbers
would also be hard to explain with the observed effective mass
enhancements. Band-structure calculations accurately accounting for the
effect of dimer bonds would be helpful to settle this question, since
the value of λ obtained from the present analysis is sensitive to the
bare density of states $N_{0}(E_{\rm F})$. A possible explanation for
the dilemma is that the electron-phonon coupling described by the
average renormalization parameter λ obtained from the effective mass
enhancement is insufficient to describe superconductivity with Eq. (2).
This may be due to the large number of bands present having different
coupling strength and superconducting gaps, in combination with the very
different low-frequency phonon behavior for α-Ga and β-Ga.

## IV Conclusions

We show that it is possible to obtain metastable β-Ga through a simple
thermal cycle of α-Ga around its melting temperature by using a
membrane-based nanocolorimeter. This _in situ_ transformation enables
the measurement of specific heat on the same Ga sample in the two
different phases. We find that superconductivity is enhanced in the
metastable phase, with $T_{\rm c}$ shifting up to 6.04(5) K, accompanied
by a strong increase in density of states at the Fermi energy
$N(E_{\rm F})$. From the specific-heat jump at $T_{\rm c}$ and the
temperature dependence of ΔC(T), we estimate a zero-temperature energy
gap
$\Delta(0)=1.04(3)\,{\rm meV}\,\left[\Delta(0)/k_{\rm B}T_{\rm c}=2.00\right]$
and conclude that β-Ga is a strong-coupling superconductor.

###### Acknowledgements.

This paper was supported by the Swedish Research Council under Grant No.
2016-04516 (A.R.) and Grant No. 2015-00585 (Z.D.), the latter co-funded
by Marie Sklodowska-Curie Actions (Project INCA 600398). D.C.
acknowledges support from the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences.

## References

* [1] W. M. Haynes, D. R. Lide, and T. J. Bruno, _CRC Handbook of
Chemistry and Physics_ (CRC Press, Boca Raton, 2012). * [2] G. Seidel
and P. H. Keesom, Phys. Rev. **112**, 1083 (1958). * * [3] W. D.
Gregory, T. P. Sheahen, and J. F. Cochran, Phys. Rev. **150**, 315
(1966). * [4] L. Bosio, R. Cortes, A. Defrain, and I. Epelboin, C. R.
Acad. Sci. Paris **264**, 1592 (1967). * [5] L. Bosio, A. Defrain, H.
Curien, and A. Rimsky, Acta Cryst. **B25**, 995 (1969). * [6] L. Bosio,
H. Curien, M. Dupont, and A. Rimsky, Acta Cryst. **B28**, 1974 (1972). *
[7] L. Bosio, H. Curien, M. Dupont, and A. Rimsky, Acta Cryst. **B29**,
367 (1973). * [8] L. Bosio, A. Defrain, I. Epelboin, and J. Vidal, J.
Chim. Phys. **65**, 719 (1968). * [9] R. D. Heyding, W. Keeney, and S.
L. Segel, J. Phys. Chem. Solids **34**, 133 (1973). * [10] D. Teske and
J. E. Drumheller, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter **11**, 4935 (1999). * [11]
M. K. Lee, C. Tien, E. V. Charnaya, H.-S. Sheu, and Y. A. Kumzerov,
Phys. Lett. A **374**, 1570 (2010). * [12] R. W. G. Wyckoff, _Crystal
Structures_, 2nd ed. (Interscience Publ., New York, 1963), Vol. I, p.
22. * [13] X. G. Gong, G. L. Chiarotti, M. Parrinello, and E. Tosatti,
Phys. Rev. B **43**, 14277 (1991). * [14] H. Parr and J. Feder, Phys.
Rev. B **7**, 166 (1973). * [15] H. He, G. T. Fei, P. Cui, K. Zheng, L.
M. Liang, Y. Li, and L. De Zhang, Phys. Rev. B **72**, 073310 (2005). *
[16] X. F. Li, G. T. Fei, X. M. Chen, Y. Zhang, K. Zheng, X. L. Liu, and
L. D. Zhang, Europhys. Lett. **94**, 16001 (2011). * [17] M. Bernasconi,
G. L. Chiarotti, and E. Tosatti, Phys. Rev. B **52**, 9988 (1995). *
[18] L. Bosio, A. Defrain, J. Keyston, and J.-C. Vallier, C. R. Acad.
Sci. Paris **261**, 5431 (1965). * [19] L. Bosio, R. Cortes, J. R. D.
Copley, W. D. Teuchert, and J. Lefebvre, J. Phys. F: Metal Phys. **11**,
2261 (1981). * [20] H. Parr, Phys. Rev. B **10**, 4572 (1974). * [21] R.
W. Cohen, B. Abeles, and G. S. Weisbarth, Phys. Rev. Lett. **18**, 336
(1967). * [22] H. Wuhl, J. E. Jackson, and C. V. Briscoe, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **20**, 1496 (1968). * [23] S. Tagliati and A. Rydh, Thermochim.
Acta **522**, 66 (2011). * [24] S. Tagliati, V. M. Krasnov, and A. Rydh,
Rev. Sci. Instrum. **83**, 055107 (2012). * [25] G. B. Adams, H. L.
Johnston, and E. C. Kerr, J. Am. Chem. Soc. **74**, 4784 (1952). * [26]
A. Defrain, C. R. Acad. Sci. **250**, 483 (1960). * [27] N. E. Phillips,
Phys. Rev. **134**, A385 (1964). * [28] D. C. Johnston, Supercond. Sci.
Technol. **26**, 115011 (2013). * [29] H. Padamsee, J. E. Neighbor, and
C. A. Shiffman, J. Low Temp. Phys. **12**, 387 (1973). * [30] M. J. D.
Stroud and M. J. Stott, J. Phys. F: Metal Phys. **5**, 1667 (1975). *
[31] J. P. Carbotte, Rew. Mod. Phys. **62**, 1027 (1990). * [32] R.
Haslinger and A. V. Chubukov, Phys. Rev. B **67**, 140504(R) (2003). *
[33] W. A. Reed, Phys. Rev. **188**, 1184 (1969). * [34] O. Hunderi and
R. Ryberg, J. Phys. F: Metal Phys. **4**, 2084 (1974). * [35] B. B.
Goodman and E. Mendoza, Philos. Mag. **42**, 594 (1951). * [36] D.
Morisseau, J. Phys. F: Metal Phys. **6**, 1553 (1976). * [37] G.
Grimvall, _The Electron-Phonon Interaction in Metals_, edited by E. P.
Wohlfarth (Elsevier North-Holland Publ. Co., Amsterdam, 1981). * [38] S.
Nakajima and M. Watabe, Prog. Theor. Phys. **29**, 341 (1963). * [39] W.
L. McMillan, Phys. Rev. **167**, 331 (1968).
