Superconductivity induced by oxygen deficiency in
La_(0.85)Sr_(0.15)FeAsO_(1 − δ)

G. Wu, H. Chen, Y. L. Xie, Y. J. Yan, T. Wu, R. H. Liu, X. F. Wang, D.
F. Fang, J. J. Ying, and X. H. Chen*

Hefei National Laboratory for Physical Science at Microscale and
Department of Physics, University of Science and Technology of China,
Hefei, Anhui 230026, People’s Republic of China

Received 10 June 2008; revised manuscript received 13 July 2008;
published 16 September 2008

###### Abstract

We synthesized single phase La_(0.85)Sr_(0.15)FeAsO_(1 − δ) samples and
systematically studied the effect of oxygen deficiency in this system.
It is found that partial substitution of Sr for La induces the hole
carrier evidenced by positive thermoelectric power (TEP) but no bulk
superconductivity is observed. The superconductivity can be realized by
annealing the as-grown sample in vacuum to produce the oxygen
deficiency. With increasing oxygen deficiency, the superconducting
transition temperature (T_(c)) increases and the maximum T_(c) reaches
26 K–the same as that observed in the LaFeAsO_(1 − δ)F_(x) system. TEP
changes the sign from positive for the nonsuperconducting as-grown
sample to negative for the superconducting samples with oxygen
deficiency, while R_(H) keeps negative for all samples. It suggests that
the dominated carrier in La_(0.85)Sr_(0.15)FeAsO_(1 − δ) is
electronlike.

pacs: 10.1103/PhysRevB.78.092503 + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL REVIEW
B **78**, 092503 (2008)

Since the discovery of high-transition temperature (T_(c))
superconductivity in layered copper oxides, extensive efforts have been
devoted to exploring the higher T_(c) superconductivity. Layered
rare-earth metal oxypnictides LnOMPn (Ln =La, Pr, Ce, Sm; M =Fe, Co, Ni,
Ru; and Pn =P and As) with ZrCuSiAs-type structure [1, 2] have attracted
great attention due to the discovery of superconductivity at T_(c)=26 K
in the iron-based LaO_(1 − x)F_(x)FeAs (_x_ =0.05−0.12). [3]T_(c) was
drastically raised to higher than 40 K beyond McMillan limitation of 39
K predicted by BCS theory in LnO_(1 − x)F_(x)FeAs by replacing La with
other rare-earth Ln with smaller ionic radii [4, 5, 6]. These
discoveries have generated much interest in exploring high-temperature
superconductors and provided a kind of material base for studying the
origin of high-temperature superconductivity.

Such high-T_(c) iron pnictides adopt a layered structure of alternating
Fe-As and Ln-O layers with eight atoms in a tetragonal unit cell.
Similar to the cuprates, the Fe-As layer is thought to be responsible
for superconductivity and the Ln-O layer is the carrier reservoir layer
that provides the electron carrier. In order to induce the electron
carrier, three different ways have been used: (i) partial substitution
of flourine for oxygen [3, 4] (ii) to produce oxygen deficiency [7]; and
(iii) partial substitution of Th⁴⁺ for Ln³⁺[8]. All these ways of
inducing electron carriers into the system are limited to the
substitution performed in the carrier reservoir Ln-O layer. The electron
carrier induced transfers to the Fe-As layer to realize
superconductivity. Superconductivity at 25 K realized by hole doping
with substituting La³⁺ with Sr²⁺ in LaOFeAs system was reported [9]. The
ternary iron arsenide BaFe₂As₂ shows superconductivity at 38 K with
partial substitution of potassium for barium [10]. It is confirmed that
the dominated carrier is holelike by Hall coefficient and thermoelectric
power (TEP) measurements [11] in Ba_(1 − x)K_(x)Fe₂As₂.

The undoped material LaOFeAs shows an anomaly in resistivity at ∼150 K,
which is associated with the structural transition [12]. The structural
transition and the anomaly in resistivity are suppressed and
superconductivity emerges with increasing F doping [13, 14]. No anomaly
in resistivity is observed in the optimally doped sample [14].
Therefore, the complete suppression of the anomaly peak is an indication
for inducing the carrier into the system. Here we successfully prepared
single phase La_(0.85)Sr_(0.15)FeAsO_(1 − δ) and systematically studied
the effect of oxygen deficiency on transport properties (resistivity,
Hall coefficient, and TEP). It is found that partial substitution of
Sr²⁺ for La³⁺ leads to a shift of the anomaly peak in resistivity to
high temperature and to a change of sign in TEP from negative to
positive, while the Hall coefficient keeps the same sign and its
magnitude deceases with Sr doping. The superconductivity can be induced
by annealing the as-grown sample in vacuum to produce the oxygen
deficiency. Both TEP and R_(H) are negative for the superconducting
samples with oxygen deficiency. It suggests that the dominated carrier
in La_(0.85)Sr_(0.15)O_(1 − δ)FeAs is electronlike.

Polycrystalline samples with nominal composition LaOFeAs and
La_(0.85)Sr_(0.15)O_(1 − δ)FeAs were synthesized by conventional
solid-state reaction using high-purity LaAs, SrCO₃, Fe, As, and Fe₂O₃ as
starting materials. LaAs was obtained by reacting La powder with As
powder at 600 degC for 3 h. The raw materials were thoroughly grounded
and pressed into pellets. The pellets were wrapped into Ta foil and
sealed in an evacuated quartz tube. They are then annealed at 1160 degC
for 40 h. The sample preparation process (except for annealing) was
carried out in a glove box in which high pure argon atmosphere is
filled. The superconductivity is achieved with postannealing the
as-grown samples La_(0.85)Sr_(0.15)O_(1 − δ)FeAs for 2 and 4 h in a
high-evacuated quartz, respectively. Figure 1 shows the x-ray
diffraction (XRD) patterns for the polycrystalline samples LaOFeAs and
La_(0.85)Sr_(0.15)O_(1 − δ)FeAs obtained with different annealing times.
All peaks in XRD patterns can be well indexed to the tetragonal
ZrCuSiAs-type structure. The XRD patterns indicate that all samples are
single phase and stable for annealing in vacuum. The XRD patterns just
show subtle differences for all samples but the (122) and (114) peaks
for the samples annealed in vacuum apparently shift to high angle. Table
1 shows lattice parameters for the sample LaOFeAs and variation of
lattice parameters with annealing time for the samples
La_(0.85)Sr_(0.15)O_(1 − δ)FeAs with different oxygen vacancy. It shows
that both a-axis and c-axis lattice parameters decrease systematically
with annealing time. Increase in the annealing time in high vacuum leads
to more oxygen deficiency. It suggests that the lattice parameters a and
c decrease with increasing oxygen deficiency. Such variation of lattice
parameters with oxygen deficiency is consistent with a previous report
in NdO_(1 − δ)FeAs.[7]

Temperature-dependent resistivity for the samples LaOFeAs and
La_(0.85)Sr_(0.15)O_(1 − δ)FeAs is shown in Fig. 2. The undoped compound
LaOFeAs shows the same resistivity behavior as the previous report.[3]
The anomaly at 150 K in resistivity is believed to be associated with
the structural transition.[12] As-grown Sr-doped LaOFeAs sample shows
different temperature-dependent behavior from that observed in the
undoped LaOFeAs sample. The resistivity shows a linear temperature
dependence above a characteristic temperature of ∼165 K and steeply
decreases with decreasing temperature below 165 K. The anomaly in
resistivity shifts to high temperature of 165 K associated with the
structural transition or spin-density wave (SDW) transition relative to
the undoped LaOFeAs sample. The room-temperature resistivity is about
13.7 mΩ cm, which is larger than that of the undoped LaOFeAs sample (∼5
mΩ cm). However, a trace of superconducting transition at ∼6 K is
observed as shown in Fig. 2. The resistivity shows a weak
temperature-dependent behavior for the sample obtained by annealing the
as-grown La_(0.85)Sr_(0.15)OFeAs sample in a high vacuum for 2 h. The
anomaly associated with the structural transition or SDW transition is
still observed at ∼140 K. A superconducting transition at 8 K is
observed and no zero resistivity is obtained with temperature down to
4.2 K. The postannealed La_(0.85)Sr_(0.15)O_(1 − δ)FeAs sample in high
vacuum for 4 h shows a well-metallic behavior. A sharp superconducting
transition occurs at 26 K and the resistivity reaches to zero at ∼23 K.
Temperature dependence of resistivity is very similar to that of the
superconducting LaO_(0.85)Sr_(0.11)FeAs.[3] The inset of Fig. 2 shows
the temperature-dependent susceptibility in zero-field cooling and field
cooling for La_(0.85)Sr_(0.15)O_(1 − δ)FeAs annealed in high vacuum for
4 h. Since the sample density is considerably smaller than the
theoretical value, we use 100.7 cm³/mol to estimate the superconducting
volume and get a superconducting fraction of ≈54

Since the bulk superconductivity was realized by inducing oxygen
deficiency, the electron doping is expected by the introduction of
oxygen deficiency in Sr-doped LaOFeAs. In order to confirm this
expectation and provide the direct evidence, the TEP and Hall
coefficient (R_(H)) are systematically measured. Temperature-dependent
Hall coefficients for all samples are shown in Fig. 3. The sign of the
Hall coefficient for all samples is negative, indicating that the
dominated carrier is electronlike in these samples. The magnitude of
R_(H) shows a sharp increase in the temperature of ∼150 K associated
with structure transition or SDW transition for the undoped LaOFeAs.
Such behavior has been widely observed in parent compounds.[14]

R_(H) of the sample Sr-doped LaOFeAs shows similar temperature
dependence to that of pure LaOFeAs. But Sr doping leads to a decrease in
magnitude of R_(H), suggesting that it seems to induce carriers into the
system. Figure 3 clearly shows that the sharp increase in magnitude of
R_(H) occurs at

Figure 2: (Color online) Temperature dependence of resistivity for the
samples: LaOFeAs (squares); as-grown La_(0.85)Sr_(0.15)O_(1 − δ)FeAs
(circles); postannealed La_(0.85)Sr_(0.15)O_(1 − δ)FeAs in high vacuum
for 2 h (triangles); and postannealed La_(0.85)Sr_(0.15)O_(1 − δ)FeAs in
high vacuum for 4 h (diamonds). The inset shows temperature-dependent
susceptibility for La_(0.85)Sr_(0.15)O_(1 − δ)FeAs annealed in high
vacuum for 4 h.

  ---------------- ---------- ----------
       Sample        a (Å)      c (Å)
        Pure        4.030(3)   8.736(5)
   Annealing time    a (Å)      c (Å)
        0 h         4.031(3)   8.749(5)
        2 h         4.027(3)   8.730(5)
        4 h         4.019(3)   8.723(5)
  ---------------- ---------- ----------

Table 1: Lattice parameters for the samples LaOFeAs and
La_(0.85)Sr_(0.15)O_(1 − δ)FeAs with different oxygen deficiency.

Figure 1: (Color online) X-ray diffraction patterns at room temperature
for the samples: (a) LaOFeAs; (b) as-grown
La_(0.85)Sr_(0.15)O_(1 − δ)FeAs; (c) postannealed
La_(0.85)Sr_(0.15)O_(1 − δ)FeAs in high vacuum for 2 h; and (d)
postannealed La_(0.85)Sr_(0.15)O_(1 − δ)FeAs in high vacuum for 4 h.

∼165 K, which coincides with the anomaly of resistivity at 165 K shown
in Fig. 2 for the Sr-doped sample. This further indicates that the sharp
increase in magnitude of R_(H) arises from the SDW transition or
structural phase transition. Annealing in vacuum leads to a decrease in
magnitude of R_(H) and a shift of the temperature corresponding to the
sharp increase in magnitude of R_(H) to low temperature. It indicates
that the annealing in high vacuum induces electron carriers into the
system and suppresses the structural transition or SDW ordering, which
is similar to the effect of F doping in SmO_(1 − x)F_(x)FeAs.[14] The
superconducting sample obtained by annealing as-grown sample in high
vacuum for 4 h shows a very small negative R_(H), indicating the
introduction of enough electron carriers into the system to realize
superconductivity. No steep increase in magnitude of R_(H) is observed
above superconducting transition temperature. It indicates complete
suppression of SDW transition or structural transition due to
introduction of more electron carriers into the system. A sharp decrease
in magnitude of R_(H) to zero at 26 K happens due to the occurrence of
superconductivity.

Figure 4 shows the temperature dependence of TEP for all four samples.
The parent compound LaOFeAs shows negative TEP. With decreasing
temperature, negative TEP increases and the negative TEP starts to
decrease below ∼150 K at which a structural transition is observed[12]
and a broad peak around 125 K associated with SDW transition or
structural transition shows up. Sr doping in (La,Sr)OFeAs system leads
to a change in the sign of TEP from negative to positive at 250 K with
decreasing temperature. Its temperature dependence shows a typical
behavior of low carrier-concentration materials, which contain electrons
and holes as discussed in Ref. [15]. Positive TEP indicates that the
dominant carriers are holes, whereas R_(H) has shown that electrons
dominate. In particular, R_(H) is always negative in the entire
temperature range. These experimental results are consistent with those
of the band-structure calculations, which predicted that LaOFeAs is a
multiband system. The opposite signs of TEP (>0) and R_(H) (<0) can be
understood by considering that averaging contributions of multibands are
different for TEP and R_(H).

To understand the different signs between the Hall coefficient and TEP,
the simplest model beyond the one-carrier free-electron approximation is
a two-band model, considering the case of a current carried by both
electrons (concentration n_(e), mobility μ_(e), and conductivity σ_(e))
and holes (n_(p), μ_(p), and σ_(p)). The Hall coefficient and TEP within
a two-band model are given by[16, 17]

$$R_{H}=\frac{n_{p}\mu_{p}^{2}-n_{e}\mu_{e}^{2}}{e(n_{p}\mu_{p}^{2}+n_{e}\mu_{e} ^{2})},$$
(1)

where e> 0 is the elementary charge.

S = (σ_(e)/σ)S_(e) + (σ_(p)/σ)S_(p),
(2)

where σ=σ_(e)+σ_(p).

Based on the above formula, it is easy to understand that Sr doping
leads to a decrease in negative Hall coefficient and change of sign in
TEP. Sr doping leads to an increase in hole concentration (n_(p)) so
that R_(H) decreases. But the n_(p)μ_(p)² is still less than n_(e)μ_(e)²
and the R_(H) keeps negative. Increase in hole concentration induced by
Sr doping strongly enhances the hole conductivity σ_(p) and S_(p) so
that the sign of S changes. Postannealing in high vacuum leads to the
production of the oxygen deficiency, resulting in an increase in
electron concentration (n_(e)) and enhancing the contribution from
electron carrier to S. Therefore, postannealing in high vacuum leads to
the decrease in R_(H) and change of TEP sign from positive to negative
in the entire temperature range. The temperature dependence of TEP for
the samples obtained by annealing in vacuum is similar to that of
superconducting LaO_(1 − x)F_(x)FeAs.[15] At superconducting transition
temperature, TEP sharply drops to zero. It is intriguing that the
profile for temperature-dependent TEP is similar to that of low
carrier-concentration metals such as undoped high-T_(c) cuprates except
for negative sign. These results indicate that the dominant carriers are
electron in superconducting La_(0.85)Sr_(0.15)O_(1 − x)FeAs.

Figure 3: (Color online) Temperature dependence of Hall coefficient for
the samples: LaOFeAs (squares); as-grown La_(0.85)Sr_(0.15)OFeAs
(circles); postannealed La_(0.85)Sr_(0.15)O_(1 − x)FeAs in high vacuum
for 2 h (triangles); and postannealed La_(0.85)Sr_(0.15)O_(1 − x)FeAs in
high vacuum for 4 h (diamonds).

Figure 4: (Color online) Temperature-dependent thermoelectric power for
the samples: LaOFeAs (squares); as-grown La_(0.85)Sr_(0.15)O_(1 − x)FeAs
(circles); postannealed La_(0.85)Sr_(0.15)O_(1 − x)FeAs in high vacuum
for 2 h (triangles); and postannealed La_(0.85)Sr_(0.15)O_(1 − x)FeAs in
high vacuum for 4 h (diamonds).

It should be pointed that no superconductivity can be realized in pure
LaO_(1 − δ)FeAs by annealing in high vacuum, which is different from the
report by Ren _et al._[7] Ren _et al._ reported that superconductivity
can be obtained by high-pressure preparation in LnO_(1 − δ)FeAs.
High-pressure preparation could produce enough oxygen deficiency,
consequently inducing more carrier concentration to realize the
superconductivity, while the annealing in vacuum cannot produce enough
oxygen deficiency to obtain superconductivity. Much more oxygen
deficiency could lead to the metastable sample. Such metastable sample
can be obtained under high pressure, while it cannot be reached under
high vacuum. It could be the reason why the superconductivity in
LnO_(1 − δ)FeAs can only be obtained under high-pressure preparation. Sr
doping could play an important role in removing oxygen from the lattice
to produce more oxygen deficiency. This could be the reason why the
superconductivity can be realized in Sr-doped
La_(0.85)Sr_(0.15)O_(1 − δ)FeAs sample by annealing in vacuum. Both TEP
and R_(H) definitely indicate that the dominant carrier is an electron
in the superconducting La_(0.85)Sr_(0.15)O_(1 − δ)FeAs system. So far,
it seems that _n_-type carrier can be induced into the system LnOFeAs
with single FeAs layer, while _p_-type carrier is induced to the
superconductors Ba_(1 − δ)K_(x)Fe₂As₂ with double FeAs layers.[11] It is
different from the case of high-T_(c) cuprates and it should be an
interesting issue.

This work was supported by the Nature Science Foundation of China, by
the Ministry of Science and Technology of China (973 Project No.
2006CB601001), and by the National Basic Research Program of China
(Project No. 2006CB922005).

## References

* [1] B. I. Zimmer, Wolfgang Jeitschko, Jorg H. Albering, Robert Glaum,
and Manfred Reehuis, J. Alloys Compd. **229**, 238 (1995). * [2] P.
Quebe, L. J. Terbchte, and W. Jeitschko, J. Alloys Compd. **302**, 70
(2000). * [3] Yoichi Kamihara, Takumi Watanabe, Masahiro Hirano, and
Hideo Hosono, J. Am. Chem. Soc. **130**, 3296 (2008). * [4] X. H. Chen,
T. Wu, G. Wu, R. H. Liu, H. Chen, and D. F. Fang, Nature (London)
**453**, 761 (2008). * [5] G. F. Chen, Z. Li, D. Wu, G. Li, W. Z. Hu, J.
Dong, P. Zheng, J. L. Luo, and N. L. Wang, Phys. Rev. Lett. **100**,
247002 (2008). * [6] Zhi-An Ren, Jie Yang, Wei Lu, Wei Yi, Guang-Can
Che, Xiao-Li Dong, Li-Ling Sun, and Zhong-Xian Zhao, Mater. Res.
Innovations **12**, 1 (2008). * [7] Zhi-An Ren, Guang-Can Che, Xiao-Li
Dong, Jie Yang, Wei Lu, Wei Yi, Xiao-Li Shen, Zheng-Can Li, Li-Ling Sun,
Fang Zhou, and Zhong-Xian Zhao, Europhys. Lett. **83**, 17002 (2008). *
[8] Cao Wang, Linjun Li, Shun Chi, Zengwei Zhu, Zhi Ren, Yuke Li, Yuetao
Wang, Xiao Lin, Yongkang Luo, Shuai Jiang, Xiangfan Xu, Guanghan Cao,
and Zhu’an Xu, Europhys. Lett. **83**, 67006 (2008). * [9] H. H. Wen, G.
Mu, L. Fang, H. Yang, and X. Zhu, Europhys. Lett. **82**, 17009
(2008). * [10] M. Rotter, M. Tegel, and D. Johrendt, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**101**, 107006 (2008). * [11] G. Wu, R. H. Liu, H. Chen, Y. J. Yan, T.
Wu, Y. L. Xie, J. J. Ying, X. F. Wang, D. F. Fang, and X. H. Chen,
Europhys. Lett. (to be published). * [12] Clarina de la Cruz, Q. Huang,
J. W. Lynn, Jiying Li, W. Ratcliff II, J. L. Zarestky, H. A. Mook, G. F.
Chen, J. L. Luo, N. L. Wang, and Pengcheng Dai, Nature (London) **453**,
899 (2008). * [13] J. Dong, H. J. Zhang, G. Xu, Z. Li, G. Li, W. Z. Hu,
D. Wu, G. F. Chen, X. Dai, J. L. Luo, Z. Fang, and N. L. Wang, Europhys.
Lett. **83**, 27006 (2008). * [14] R. H. Liu, G. Wu, T. Wu, D. F. Fang,
H. Chen, S. Y. Li, K. Liu, Y. L. Xie, X. F. Wang, R. L. Yang, L. Ding,
C. He, D. L. Feng, and X. H. Chen, Phys. Rev. Lett. **101**, 087001
(2008). * [15] Z. W. Zhu, Z. A. Xu, X. Lin, G. H. Cao, C. M. Feng, G. F.
Chen, Z. Li, J. L. Luo, and N. L. Wang, New J. Phys. **10**, 063021
(2008). * [16] C. M. Hurd, _The Hall Effect in Metals and Alloys_
(Plenum, New York, 1972), Chap. 2.3. * [17] J. M. Ziman, _Principles of
the Theory of Solids_ (Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, England,
1989).
