Electron doping evolution of structural and antiferromagnetic phase
transitions in NaFe_(1 − x)Co_(x)As iron pnictides

Guotai Tan

Yu Song

Lefang Lin

Department of Physics, Beijing Normal University, Beijing 100875, China

Lifang Lin

Department of Physics, Beijing Normal University, Beijing 100875, China

Zhuang Xu

Department of Physics, Beijing Normal University, Beijing 100875, China

Tingting Hou

Department of Physics, Beijing Normal University, Beijing 100875, China

Wei Tian

Quantum Condensed Matter Division, Oak Ridge National Laboratory, Oak
Ridge, Tennessee 37831, USA

Huibo Cao

Quantum Condensed Matter Division, Oak Ridge National Laboratory, Oak
Ridge, Tennessee 37831, USA

Shiliang Li

Beijing National Laboratory for Condensed Matter Physics, Institute of
Physics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100190, China
Collaborative Innovation Center of Quantum Matter, Beijing, China

Shiping Feng

Department of Physics, Beijing Normal University, Beijing 100875, China
Collaborative Innovation Center of Quantum Matter, Beijing, China

Pengcheng Dai

pdai@rice.edu Department of Physics, Beijing Normal University, Beijing
100875, China Collaborative Innovation Center of Quantum Matter,
Beijing, China

Received 10 April 2016; revised manuscript received 3 June 2016;
published 13 July 2016

###### Abstract

We use transport and neutron diffraction to study the electronic phase
diagram of NaFe_(1 − x)Co_(x)As. In the undoped state, NaFeAs exhibits a
tetragonal-to-orthorhombic structural transition below T_(c) followed by
a collinear antiferromagnetic (AF) order below T_(N). Upon codoping to
form NaFe_(1 − x)Co_(x)As, T_(x) and T_(N) are gradually suppressed,
leading to optimal superconductivity near Co-doping x = 0.025. While
transport experiments on these materials reveal an anomalous behavior
suggesting the presence of a quantum critical point (QCP) near optimal
superconductivity, our neutron diffraction results indicate that
commensurate AF order becomes transversely incommensurate with
T_(N) > T_(c) before vanishing abruptly at optimal superconductivity.
These results are remarkably similar to electron-doping and
isovalent-doping evolution of the AF order in BaFe_(2 − x)Ni_(x)As₂ and
BaFe₂(As_(1 − x)P_(x))₂, thus suggesting a universal behavior in the
suppression of the magnetic order in iron pnictides as superconductivity
is induced.

doi:10.1103/PhysRevB.94.014509

## I Introduction

High-transition-temperature (high-T_(c)) superconductivity in copper
oxides [1] and iron pnictides [2, 3, 4, 5] generally appears in the
vicinity of a magnetically ordered phase. For this reason, magnetism is
believed to play a critical role in the pairing mechanisms of high-T_(c)
superconductors [4]. In the case of copper oxides, hole doping to
La₂CuO₄ by partially substituting La by Sr will gradually suppress the
static antiferromagnetic (AF) order before superconductivity emerges
[6]. For iron pnictide superconductors such as electron-doped
BaFe_(2 − x)T_(x)As₂ (T= Co, Ni) [7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13] and
isovalent-doped BaFe₂(As_(1 − x)P_(x))₂[14, 15, 16, 17, 18], optimal
superconductivity appears near the regime where the static collinear AF
order [Fig. 1(a)] is suppressed. While transport measurements have
suggested the presence of a quantum critical point (QCP) in
BaFe_(2 − x)T_(x)As₂[12, 19] and BaFe₂(As_(1 − x)P_(x))₂[20], as
revealed by the linear temperature dependence of the resistivity near
optimal superconductivity, neutron scattering experiments instead find
that the static AF order in BaFe_(2 − x)Ni_(x)As₂ and
BaFe₂(As_(1 − x)P_(x))₂ families of materials always has T_(N) above
T_(c) and disappears in a weakly first-order fashion abruptly near
optimal superconductivity, suggesting an avoided QCP [12, 13, 17, 18].
On the other hand, recent neutron scattering [21, 22] and Mossbauer
spectroscopy [23] experiments on hole-doped iron pnictides
(Ba,Sr)_(1 − x)Na_(x)Fe₂As₂ family of materials found a new magnetically
ordered state with restored tetragonal symmetry near optimal
superconductivity, replacing the stripe AF ordered state of the undoped
BaFe₂As₂[24]. These results suggest that the static AF order in iron
pnictides display a plethora of interesting behaviors near optimal
superconductivity. In order to understand the relationship between
magnetism and superconductivity, it is important to systematically study
the electronic phase diagrams of different classes of iron pnictides and
establish their universal features.

In this article, we report systematic neutron diffraction experiments on
Co-doped NaFe_(1 − x)Co_(x)As iron pnictides. Although previous
transport, μSR, and heat capacity experiments have established the phase
diagram of NaFe_(1 − x)Co_(x)As [25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30], there are no
systematic neutron diffraction measurements on NaFe_(1 − x)Co_(x)As to
determine the Co-doping evolution of the AF order and compare with those
of electron, hole, and isovalently doped BaFe₂As₂[12, 13, 17, 18].
Figure 1(c) summarizes the phase diagram of NaFe_(1 − x)Co_(x)As
determined from our transport and neutron diffraction experiments on
single-crystal samples. In addition to the well known gradual
suppression of structural and AF order with increasing Co doping
(T_(s) > T_(N) > T_(c)), our data reveal a
commensurate-to-incommensurate transition in static AF order before it
vanishes abruptly near optimal superconductivity. Although transport
measurements on NaFe_(1 − x)Co_(x)As show linear temperature dependence
of the resistivity near optimal superconductivity suggestive of a QCP,
the first-order-like disappearing nature of the AF order with increasing
Co doping indicates an avoided QCP. These results are remarkably similar
to electron-doped BaFe_(2 − x)T_(x)As₂[7, 8, 9, 10, 12, 13], thus
suggesting a universal electronic phase diagram for electron-doped
BaFe₂As₂ and NaFeAs iron pnictides in spite of their differences in
crystal and electronic structures.

## II Experimental results

High-quality NaFe_(1 − x)Co_(x)As single crystals with nominal doping
level x were synthesized by the self-flux method as described elsewhere
[30]. Similar to previous work [32], we use inductively coupled plasma
(ICP) atomic-emission spectroscopy measurements to determine the
chemical compositions of the samples. For the nominal
NaFe_(0.975)Co_(0.025)As samples, which contain an unknown amount of
NaAs flux, ICP measurements suggest a total chemical composition of
Na_(0.94)Fe_(0.89)Co_(0.02)As. Since the Na concentration of 0.94 is
similar to the combined Fe and Co concentration of 0.91, we assume that
the actual chemical compositions of NaFe_(1 − x)Co_(x)As are similar to
the nominal doping levels and quote the nominal doping level throughout
the paper [32]. Resistivity measurements were carried out with the
four-probe method using a physical property measurement system (PPMS).
Neutron diffraction experiments were carried out on HB-1A thermal
triple-axis spectrometer at the High-Flux Isotope reactor (HFIR), Oak
Ridge National Laboratory. We define the wave vector **Q** at
(q_(x), q_(y), q_(z)) as
(H, K, L) = (q_(x)a_(o)/2π, q_(y)b_(o)/2π, q_(z)c/2π) in reciprocal
lattice units (rlu), where a_(o) ≈ b_(o) ≈ 5.56 A, and c = 6.95 A. In
this orthorhombic unit cell notation, the collinear AF order in NaFeAs
and Co-doped samples should occur at Q_(AF) = (1, 0, L) where
L = 0.5, 1.5, … rlu [31].

Figure 2 summarizes temperature dependence of the in-plane resistivity
measurements for NaFe_(1 − x)Co_(x)As with
x = 0.01, 0.0125, 0.015, 0.0175, 0.019, 0.02, 0.021, and 0.023. The
resistivity is normalized to the room temperature value per
ρ_(ab)(T)/ρ_(ab)(300 K) in the inset of Fig. 2(a). For all measured
Co-doping levels, ρ_(ab)(T)/ρ_(ab)(300 K) is metallic in the
paramagnetic state, and the upturns above T_(c) for lightly Co-doped
samples are due to structural and magnetic phase transitions [12,19]. To
compare the resistivity behavior in NaFe_(1 − x)Co_(x)As with those of
the doped BaFe₂As₂ family of materials [12,19,33], we performed fits for
the data from T_(c) + 10 K to 220 K using the empirical model
[12,19,33,34]: ρ(T) = ρ₀ + AT^(n), where ρ₀ is a constant, A is
amplitude, and n is the temperature exponent. For a typical Fermi liquid
metal, one expects n = 2, and a material close to QCP typically has
n = 1 with n < 2, suggesting non-Fermi liquid behavior [35,36]. The red
solid line in the inset of Fig. 2(a) represents a fit to the resistivity
data. The Co-doping dependence of the fitting exponent n is shown in
Fig. 3(e), which has a minimum value of n ≈ 1.3 around x ≈ 0.02 near
optimal superconductivity. These results are similar to previous
transport measurements on NaFe_(1 − x)Co_(x)As [28,29] and

Figure 1: The magnetic structure, neutron scattering geometry, and phase
diagram of NaFe_(1 − x)Co_(x)As as determined from transport and neutron
diffraction experiments. (a) The in-plane magnetic structure of NaFeAs
[31]. a_(o) and b_(o) (a_(o) > b_(o)) are orthorhombic crystal axes in
the AF ordered state. (b) Neutron scattering geometry used to search for
transverse incommensurate AF order for samples near optimal
superconductivity. The scattering plane is [0, K, 0] × [H, 0, 1.5H], and
the scan direction to search for incommensurate magnetic order is along
the [1, K, 1.5] direction shown the dashed line. (c) The phase diagram
of NaFe_(1 − x)Co_(x)As, where Ort, Tet, and SC indicate the
orthorhombic, tetragonal, and superconducting phases, respectively. The
C-AFM and IC-AF denote commensurate and incommensurate AF order,
respectively. The green down-pointing triangles and blue squares are
T_(N) and T_(s), respectively, determined from neutron diffraction
experiments. The diamonds and stars are T_(c) determined from
resistivity (R-T) and heat capacity (C-T), respectively [30].

Figure 2: Temperature dependence of the resistivity as a function of
increasing Co doping for NaFe_(1 − x)Co_(x)As with (a) x = 0.01, (b)
0.0125, (c) 0.015, (d) 0.017 5, (e) 0.019, (f) 0.02, (g) 0.021, and (h)
0.023. The red solid line in the inset is a fit to the model:
ρ(T) = ρ₀ + AT^(n) up to 220 K in the normal state.

suggest the presence of a QCP near optimal superconductivity in
NaFe_(1 − x)Co_(x)As similar to that of BaFe_(2 − x)T_(x)As₂.

Figures 3(a) and 3(b) summarize the magnetic order parameters for
NaFe_(1 − x)Co_(x)As with x = 0.0, 0.005,
0.012 5, 0.017 5, 0.021 5, 0.021, 0.023, and 0.023 5. The magnetic
scattering has been normalized to a weak nuclear Bragg peak (2,0,0) in
the orthorhombic notation, thus giving the ordered moment square M² in
units of μ_(B)²/Fe. In previous neutron diffraction work on
Na_(1 − x)FeAs [25, 31], the Fe ordered moment is estimated to be
M = 0.09 ± 0.04μ_(B)/Fe, which is somewhat smaller than
M = 0.17 ± 0.034μ_(B)/Fe in the present NaFeAs. This is most likely due
to the fact that previous work was carried out on slightly Na deficient
samples, and the air sensitivity nature of the NaFe_(1 − x)Co_(x)As
samples was not fully recognized [37]. Figure 3(a) shows the data for
x = 0.0, 0.005, 0.012 5, and 0.017 5. With increasing Co doping, we can
see a clear reduction in magnetic ordered moment and T_(N). For
Co-underdoped bulk superconducting samples, including
x = 0.017 5, 0.021 5, 0.023, and 0.023 5, there is also a reduction of
the AF ordered moment below T_(c), indicating a competing static AF
order with superconductivity similar to underdoped
BaFe_(2 − x)T_(x)As₂[8, 9]. In addition, the magnetic ordered moment
decreases systematically with increasing Co doping, as illustrated in
Fig. 3(c). The AF ordering temperature, however, seems to saturate
around T_(N) ≈ 30 K on approaching optimal superconductivity with
x = 0.023 5. We also note that the AF phase transitions become rounded
for samples near optimal superconductivity. This is consistent with the
temperature dependence of the magnetic order parameters of underdoped
BaFe_(2 − x)T_(x)As₂ near optimal superconductivity, which has been
attributed to a cluster spin glass state [38, 39, 40].

To determine Co-doping dependence of the spin-spin correlation length in
the AF ordered phase of NaFe_(1 − x)Co_(x)As, we carried out neutron
diffraction measurements in two different scattering geometries. For the
underdoped sample where we expect the static AF order to be
commensurate, we aligned the single crystals in the
[H, 0, 0] × [0, 0, L] scattering plane. For Co-doping level x near
optimal superconductivity, we aligned the crystals in the
[0, K, 0] × [H, 0, 1.5H] scattering plane as shown in Fig. 1(b) in order
to search for possible transverse incommensurate magnetic order, as seen
in BaFe_(2 − x)T_(x)As₂[11, 12]. For lightly Co-doped
NaFe_(1 − x)Co_(x)As, Fourier transforms of longitudinal scans along the
[H, H, 0] direction reveal that spin-spin correlation lengths are
resolution limited and greater than or equal to 290 A [Fig. 3(d)]. This
is the case for all samples probed.

Figures 4(a) and 4(b) show transverse and longitudinal scans,
respectively, for NaFe_(1 − x)Co_(x)As with x = 0.012 5 at different
temperatures. The scattering is featureless at T = 45 K (above T_(N))
along both directions. On cooling to T = 15 K and 5 K, we see clear
magnetic scattering at commensurate

Figure 4: Transverse and radial scans through the AF ordering wave
vector Q_(AF) = (1, 0, 1.5) at different temperatures using scattering
geometry as shown in Fig. 1(b). Transverse scans along the [1, K, 1.5]
direction at different temperatures for NaFe_(1 − x)Co_(x)As with (a)
x = 0.025, (c) 0.023, and (e) 0.023 5. The corresponding longitudinal
scans are shown in (b), (d), and (f), respectively. The blue solid line
in (e) shows a fit to data obtained using λ/2 above T_(N). The solid
lines are Gaussian fits to the data on linear backgrounds.

Figure 3: Temperature dependence of the magnetic order parameters
normalized to a weak nuclear Bragg peak (2,0,0) for NaFe_(1 − x)Co_(x)As
with (a) x = 0, 0.005, 0.012 5, 0.017 5, and (b) 0.021 5, 0.023, and
0.023 5. The negative values are due to imperfect high-temperature
background scattering subtraction. (c) The Co-doping dependence of the
ordered magnetic moment. (d) The spin-spin correlation length in Å as a
function of Co doping. The shaded area indicates that spin-spin
correlation length is resolution limited. (e) Co-doping dependence of
the exponent n from fits to the resistivity data.

positions along the longitudinal and transverse directions [Figs. 4(a)
and 4(b)]. The situation is similar for the x = 0.023 sample [Figs. 4(c)
and 4(d)]. However, the transverse scans for the x = 0.023 5 sample show
two incommensurate peaks at T = 15 K and 5 K [Fig. 4(e)], while
longitudinal scans are commensurate at all measured temperatures [Fig.
4(f)]. The positions of incommensurate peaks are similar to those of
electron-doped BaFe_(2 − x)_(x)As₂[11, 12]. These results thus suggest
that the presence of transverse incommensurate magnetic order before
optimal superconductivity may be a common feature of electron-doped
BaFe₂As₂ and NaFeAs.

To determine electron-doping evolution of the orthorhombic-to-tetragonal
structural transition in NaFe_(1 − x) Co_(x)As, we measured the
temperature dependence of the intensity at the (4, 0, 0) nuclear Bragg
reflection position in the orthorhombic notation [7]. From previous
neutron diffraction experiments on BaFe₂As₂, we know that the intensity
of the (4, 0, 0) nuclear Bragg reflection [or the nuclear Bragg peak
(2, 2, 0) in the tetragonal notation] shows a dramatic jump at T_(s)
arising from the neutron extinction release that occurs due to strain
and domain formation related to the orthorhombic distortion [41, 42].
Figure 5 summarizes the key results for NaFe_(1 − x)Co_(x)As with
x = 0.005, 0.012 5, 0.015, 0.023, 0.023 5, and 0.023 75. In all cases,
we see a clear enhancement of the scattering intensity below a
characteristic temperature marked by vertical arrows. The resulting
T_(s) as a function of Co doping is plotted together with other
information shown in Fig. 1(c), thus establishing the Co-doping
dependence of the NaFe_(1 − x)Co_(x)As phase diagram.

## III Conclusion

To summarize, we have mapped out the orthorhombic-to-tetragonal
structural and AF ordering phase transition phase diagram in
NaFe_(1 − x)Co_(x)As as a function of Co doping up to optimal
superconductivity. In spite of the rather different electron and hole
Fermi surfaces between electron-doped BaFe_(2 − x)_(T)As₂[43] and
NaFe_(1 − x)Co_(x)As [44, 45, 46], we show that the Co-doping evolutions
of the structural and magnetic phase transitions in these two classes of
materials are remarkably similar. These results confirm the universal
nature of the Co-doping dependence of the structure and magnetic phase
transitions and suggest that the AF order vanishes in the first-order
fashion with an avoided magnetic QCP in iron pnictides. Since inelastic
neutron scattering experiments on these two families of iron-based
superconductors reveal that their Co-doping-dependent spin excitations
are also similar [47, 48, 49, 50], we conclude that magnetism and spin
excitations must play a critical role in the pairing mechanisms of
iron-based superconductors [4].

###### Acknowledgements.

The single-crystal growth efforts and neutron scattering work at Rice
are supported by the United States DOE, BES, through Contract No.
DE-SC0012311 (P.D.). Part of the materials work at Rice University is
supported by the Robert A. Welch Foundation through Grant No. C-1839
(P.D.). The neutron scattering work at ORNLs HFIR is sponsored by the
Scientific User Facilities Division, Office of Basic Energy Sciences, US
Department of Energy. Transport measurements are supported by the
National Basic Research Program of China (973 Program, Grant No.
2012CB821401), the National Natural Science Foundation of China (Grant
No. 11374011), and the Fundamental Research Funds for the Central
Universities (Grant No. 2014KJJCB27).

## References

* [1] P. A. Lee, N. Nagaosa, and X.-G. Wen, Rev. Mod. Phys. **78**, 17
(2006). * [2] Y. Kamihara, T. Watanabe, M. Hirano, and H. Hosono, J. Am.
Chem. Soc. **130**, 3296 (2008). * [3] C. de la Cruz, Q. Huang, J. W.
Lynn, J. Li, W. Ratcliff, II, J. L. Zarestky, H. A. Mook, G. F. Chen, J.
L. Luo, N. L. Wang, and P. C. Dai, Nature (London) **453**, 899
(2008). * [4] D. J. Scalapino, Rev. Mod. Phys. **84**, 1383 (2012). *
[5] P. C. Dai, Rev. Mod. Phys. **87**, 855 (2015). * [6] J. M.
Tranquada, G. Xu, and I. A. Zaliznyak, J. Magn. Magn. Mater. **350**,
148 (2014). * [7] C. Lester, J.-H. Chu, J. G. Analytis, S. C. Capelli,
A. S. Erickson, C. L. Condron, M. F. Toney, I. R. Fisher, and S. M.
Hayden, Phys. Rev. B **79**, 144523 (2009).

Figure 5: Temperature dependence of a strong nuclear Bragg peak
scattering (4, 0, 0) as a function of Co doping (a) x = 0.005, (b)
0.0125, (c) 0.015, (d) 0.023, (e) 0.023 5, and (f) 0.023 75. The blue
vertical arrows mark estimated T_(s). The black arrows mark T_(N)
determined from neutron diffraction measurement, and the green arrows
are T_(c) determined from transport data.

* [8] D. K. Pratt, W. Tian, A. Kreyssig, J. L. Zarestky, S. Nandi, N.
Ni, S. L. Bud’ko, P. C. Canfield, A. I. Goldman, and R. J. McQueeney,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **103**, 087001 (2009). * [9] A. D. Christianson, M. D.
Lumsden, S. E. Nagler, G. J. MacDougall, M. A. McGuire, A. S. Sefat, R.
Jin, B. C. Sales, and D. Mandrus, Phys. Rev. Lett. **103**, 087002
(2009). * [10] S. Nandi, M. G. Kim, A. Kreyssig, R. M. Fernandes, D. K.
Pratt, A. Thaler, N. Ni, S. L. Bud’ko, P. C. Canfield, J. Schmalian, R.
J. McQueeney, and A. I. Goldman, Phys. Rev. Lett. **104**, 057006
(2010). * [11] D. K. Pratt, M. G. Kim, A. Kreyssig, Y. B. Lee, G. S.
Tucker, A. Thaler, W. Tian, J. L. Zarestky, S. L. Bud’ko, P. C.
Canfield, B. N. Harmon, A. I. Goldman, and R. J. McQueeney, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **106**, 257001 (2011). * [12] H. Luo, R. Zhang, M. Laver, Z.
Yamani, M. Wang, X. Lu, M. Wang, Y. Chen, S. Li, S. Chang, J. W. Lynn,
and P. Dai, Phys. Rev. Lett. **108**, 247002 (2012). * [13] X. Lu, H.
Gretarsson, R. Zhang, X. Liu, H. Luo, W. Tian, M. Laver, Z. Yamani,
Y.-J. Kim, A. H. Nevidomskyy, Q. Si, and P. Dai, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**110**, 257001 (2013). * [14] T. Shibauchi, A. Carrington, and Y.
Matsuda, Annu. Rev. Condens. Matter Phys. **5**, 113 (2014). * [15] J.
G. Analytis, H.-H. Kuo, R. D. McDonald, M. Wartenbe, P. M. C. Rourke, N.
E. Hussey, and I. R. Fisher, Nat. Phys. **10**, 194 (2014). * [16] Y.
Nakai, T. Iye, S. Kitagawa, K. Ishida, H. Ikeda, S. Kasahara, H.
Shishido, T. Shibauchi, Y. Matsuda, and T. Terashima, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**105**, 107003 (2010). * [17] J. M. Allred, K. M. Taddei, D. E.
Bugaris, S. Avci, D. Y. Chung, H. Claus, C. de la Cruz, M. G.
Kanatzidis, S. Rosenkranz, R. Osborn, and O. Chmaissem, Phys. Rev. B
**90**, 104513 (2014). * [18] D. Hu, X. Lu, W. Zhang, H. Luo, S. Li, P.
Wang, G. Chen, F. Han, S. R. Banjara, A. Sapkota, A. Kreyssig, A. I.
Goldman, Z. Yamani, C. Niedermayer, M. Skoulatos, R. Georgii, T. Keller,
P. Wang, W. Yu, and P. Dai, Phys. Rev. Lett. **114**, 157002 (2015). *
[19] N. Ni, A. Thaler, J. Q. Yan, A. Kracher, E. Colombier, S. L.
Bud’ko, P. C. Canfield, and S. T. Hannahs, Phys. Rev. B **82**, 024519
(2010). * [20] S. Kasahara, T. Shibauchi, K. Hashimoto, K. Ikada, S.
Tonegawa, R. Okazaki, H. Shishido, H. Ikeda, H. Takeya, K. Hirata, T.
Terashima, and Y. Matsuda, Phys. Rev. B **81**, 184519 (2010). * [21] S.
Avci, O. Chmaissem, J. M. Allred, S. Rosenkranz, I. Eremin, A. V.
Chubukov, D. E. Bugaris, D. Y. Chung, M. G. Kanatzidis, J.-P Castellan,
J. A. Schlueter, H. Claus, D. D. Khalyavin, P. Manuel, A. Daoud-Aladine,
and R. Osborn, Nat. Commun. **5**, 3845 (2014). * [22] F. Wasser, A.
Schneidewind, Y. Sidis, S. Wurmehl, S. Aswartham, B. Buchner, and M.
Braden, Phys. Rev. B **91**, 060505(R) (2015). * [23] J. M. Allred, K.
M. Taddei, D. E. Bugaris, M. J. Krogstad, S. H. Lapidus, D. Y. Chung, H.
Claus, M. G. Kanatzidis, D. E. Brown, J. Kang, R. M. Fernandes, I.
Eremin, S. Rosenkranz, O. Chmaissem, and R. Osborn, Nat. Phys. **12**,
493 (2016). * [24] Q. Huang, Y. Qiu, W. Bao, M. A. Green, J. W. Lynn, Y.
C. Gasparovic, T. Wu, G. Wu, and X. H. Chen, Phys. Rev. Lett. **101**,
257003 (2008). * [25] D. R. Parker, M. J. Pitcher, P. J. Baker, I.
Franke, T. Lancaster, S. J. Blundell, and S. J. Clarke, Chem. Commun.
(Cambridge) 2189, (2009). * [26] D. R. Parker, M. J. P. Smith, T.
Lancaster, A. J. Steele, I. Franke, P. J. Baker, F. L. Pratt, M. J.
Pitcher, S. J. Blundell, and S. J. Clarke, Phys. Rev. Lett. **104**,
057007 (2010). * [27] J. D. Wright, T. Lancaster, I. Franke, A. J.
Steele, J. S. Moller, M. J. Pitcher, A. J. Corkett, D. R. Parker, D. G.
Free, F. L. Pratt, P. J. Baker, S. J. Clarke, and S. J. Blundell, Phys.
Rev. B **85**, 054503 (2012). * [28] A. F. Wang, X. G. Luo, Y. J. Yan,
J. J. Ying, Z. J. Xiang, G. J. Ye, P. Cheng, Z. Y. Li, W. J. Hu, and X.
H. Chen, Phys. Rev. B **85**, 224521 (2012). * [29] A. F. Wang, J. J.
Ying, X. G. Luo, Y. J. Yan, D. Y. Liu, Z. J. Xiang, P. Cheng, G. J. Ye,
L. J. Zou, Z. Sun, and X. H. Chen, New J. Phys. **15**, 043048 (2013). *
[30] G. Tan, P. Zheng, X. Wang, Y. Chen, X. Zhang, J. Luo, T. Netherton,
Y. Song, P. Dai, C. Zhang, and S. Li, Phys. Rev. B **87**, 144512
(2013). * [31] S. Li, C. de la Cruz, Q. Huang, G. F. Chen, T.-L. Xia, J.
L. Luo, N. L. Wang, and P. C. Dai, Phys. Rev. B **80**, 020504(R)
(2009). * [32] C. Zhang, H.-F. Li, Y. Song, Y. Su, G. Tan, T. Netherton,
C. Redding, S. V. Carr, O. Sobolev, A. Schneidewind, E. Faulhaber, L. W.
Harriger, S. Li, X. Lu, D.-X. Yao, T. Das, A. V. Balatsky, Th. Bruckel,
J. W. Lynn, and P. Dai, Phys. Rev. B **88**, 064504 (2013). * [33] R.
Zhang, D. L. Gong, X. Y. Lu, S. L. Li, M. Laver, Ch. Niedermayer, S.
Danilkin, G. C. Deng, P. C. Dai, and H. Q. Luo, Phys. Rev. B **91**,
094506 (2015). * [34] A. Rosch, Phys. Rev. Lett. **82**, 4280 (1999). *
[35] R. A. Cooper, Y. Wang, B. Vignolle, O. J. Lipscombe, S. M. Hayden,
Y. Tanabe, T. Adachi, Y. Koike, M. Nohara, H. Takagi, C. Proust, and N.
E. Hussey, Science **323**, 603 (2009). * [36] H. v. Lohneysen, A.
Rosch, M. Vojta, and P. Wolfle, Rev. Mod. Phys. **79**, 1015 (2007). *
[37] N. Spyrisson, M. A. Tanatar, Kyuil Cho, Y. Song, P. Dai, C. Zhang,
and R. Prozorov, Phys. Rev. B **86**, 144528 (2012). * [38] A. P.
Dioguardi, J. Crocker, A. C. Shockley, C. H. Lin, K. R. Shirer, D. M.
Nisson, M. M. Lawson, N. apRoberts-Warren, P. C. Canfield, S. L. Bud’ko,
S. Ran, and N. J. Curro, Phys. Rev. Lett. **111**, 207201 (2013). * [39]
X. Y. Lu, D. W. Tam, C. Zhang, H. Luo, M. Wang, R. Zhang, L. W.
Harriger, T. Keller, B. Keimer, L.-P. Regnault, T. A. Maier, and P. C.
Dai, Phys. Rev. B **90**, 024509 (2014). * [40] A. P. Dioguardi, M. M.
Lawson, B. T. Bush, J. Crocker, K. R. Shirer, D. M. Nisson, T. Kissikov,
S. Ran, S. L. Bud’ko, P. C. Canfield, S. Yuan, P. L. Kuhns, A. P. Reyes,
H.-J. Grafe, and N. J. Curro, Phys. Rev. B **92**, 165116 (2015). * [41]
A. Kreyssig, M. G. Kim, S. Nandi, D. K. Pratt, W. Tian, J. L. Zarestky,
N. Ni, A. Thaler, S. L. Bud’ko, P. C. Canfield, R. J. McQueeney, and A.
I. Goldman, Phys. Rev. B **81**, 134512 (2010). * [42] X. Y. Lu, J. T.
Park, R. Zhang, H. Q. Luo, A. H. Nevidomskyy, Q. Si, and P. C. Dai,
Science **345**, 657 (2014). * [43] P. Richard, T. Sato, K. Nakayama, T.
Takahashi, and H. Ding, Rep. Prog. Phys. **74**, 124512 (2011). * [44]
Z.-H. Liu, P. Richard, K. Nakayama, G.-F. Chen, S. Dong, J.-B. He, D.-M.
Wang, T.-L. Xia, K. Umezawa, T. Kawahara, S. Souma, T. Sato, T.
Takahashi, T. Qian, Y. Huang, N. Xu, Y. Shi, H. Ding, and S.-C. Wang,
Phys. Rev. B **84**, 064519 (2011).

* [45] S. T. Cui, S. Y. Zhu, A. F. Wang, S. Kong, S. L. Ju, X. G. Luo,
X. H. Chen, G. B. Zhang, and Z. Sun, Phys. Rev. B **86**, 155143
(2012). * [46] Q. Q. Ge, Z. R. Ye, M. Xu, Y. Zhang, J. Jiang, B. P. Xie,
Y. Song, C. L. Zhang, P. C. Dai, and D. L. Feng, Phys. Rev. X **3**,
011020 (2013). * [47] H. Q. Luo, Z. Yamani, Y. Chen, X. Lu, M. Wang, S.
Li, T. A. Maier, S. Danilkin, D. T. Adroja, and P. C. Dai, Phys. Rev. B
**86**, 024508 (2012). * [48] H. Q. Luo, X. Y. Lu, R. Zhang, M. Wang, E.
A. Goremychkin, D. T. Adroja, S. Danilkin, G. Deng, Z. Yamani, and P. C.
Dai, Phys. Rev. B **88**, 144516 (2013). * [49] C. L. Zhang, W. C. Lv,
G. T. Tan, Y. Song, S. V. Carr, S. X. Chi, M. Matsuda, A. D.
Christianson, J. A. Fernandez-Baca, L. W. Harriger, and P. C. Dai, Phys.
Rev. B **93**, 174522 (2016). * [50] S. V. Carr, C. L. Zhang, Y. Song,
G. T. Tan, Y. Li, D. L. Abernathy, M. B. Stone, G. E. Granroth, T. G.
Perring, and P. C. Dai, Phys. Rev. B **93**, 214506 (2016).
