# Transport properties of zinc-doped YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) thin films

D. J. C. Walker, A. P. Mackenzie, and J. R. Cooper

###### Abstract

We report the results of transport measurements on single-crystal
YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) thin films grown by laser ablation. Matthiessen’s rule
is obeyed as a function of x at optimum doping (δ − 0.05), but is
violated in underdoped samples, where there is evidence from the
resistivity that zinc fills in the pseudogap that is observed for
samples with x = 0, δ >  0.2. As x and δ are increased, T_(c) drops
rapidly, and a superconductor-insulator transition is observed at a
sheet resistance of approximately h/(2e)² per copper-oxygen bilayer, for
various different combinations of x and δ.

27 January 1995

The effects of oxygen depletion on YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) are well
documented.[1] As the material is underdoped by oxygen removal, the
resistivity (ρ) develops significant downward curvature below a
temperature T* which is dependent on the doping level. The values of T*
correspond closely to those obtained by other measurements[2, 3, 4, 5]
which are thought to probe the opening of a pseudogap in the spin
excitation spectrum. Since it is unlikely that the number of carriers
increases below T*, it appears that this "spin gap" reduces the in-plane
scattering rate. Extension of this type of study to Zn-doped cuprate
superconductors is of interest because Zn substitutes for the in-plane
copper atoms, leading to an enhancement of the in-plane scattering rate
and a rapid drop of T_(c)[6, 7, 8, 9] So far, most transport studies of
the effects of Zn doping have concentrated on fully oxygenated material,
in which T_(c) is reduced by approximately 10 K per at.

In this paper we summarize a study of the transport properties of
YBa₂(Cu_(1 − x)Zn_(x))₃O_(7 − δ) thin films with 0<x<0.07 and
0.05<δ <0.67. Matthiessen’s rule is followed quite well as a function of
x in the fully oxygenated material, and for 0<x<0.03 and 0.23<δ <0.32,
there is evidence that Zn substitution fills the spin gap. As x and δ
are increased above these values, there is a superconductor to insulator
transition at a sheet resistance of approximately h/(2e)² per CuO₂
bilayer.

The films were grown on SrTiO₃ substrates by laser ablation from
sintered targets of YBa₂(Cu_(1 − x)Zn_(x))₃O_(7 − δ), using deposition
conditions and deoxygenation procedures outlined in Refs. [1] and [14].
They were patterned photolithographically into Hall bars with two pairs
of contacts for measuring either the resistivity or Hall effect. Film
stoichiometry was determined by electron probe microanalysis (EPMA). Low
accelerating voltages (<6.5 KeV) were used to ensure that the electrons
were confined to the films.[15] All elements were studied, using
single-crystal YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) and pure Zn as calibration standards,
and the Cu L α and Zn L α x-ray lines were resolved by using wavelength
dispersive x-ray spectrometers.

Film thickness determination is important for a study of this kind, and
we also used the electron probe for this. The accelerating voltage was
raised until there was significant penetration to the substrate, and the
thickness was calculated from the relative emission intensity of the Y
L α and Sr L α x-ray lines from the film and substrate, respectively. We
estimate the absolute thickness error as 10-15

the s channel gives a sheet resistance of 143 Ω/at.

For higher-δ values the residual resistivity values are much larger
(e.g., ∼ 80 μΩ cm/at.

The results of a series of deoxygenations of films with x= 0.01, 0.02,
and 0.03 are shown in Fig. 2. Deoxygenation of pure YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ)
leads to a depression of T_(c) with very little increase in
$\rho_{\rm res}$,[1] but the addition of Zn leads to qualitatively
different behavior. As x is increased, T_(c) drops rapidly as a function
of δ, and for T_(c) below 50 K $\rho_{\rm res}$ rises rapidly. Also, the
anomalous curvature in the resistivity of the high-δ samples which has
been associated with the opening of the spin gap is suppressed as x is
increased. For x= 0 (Ref. [1]) and 0.01 [Fig. 2(a)] dρ/dT increases with
δ even at high temperatures, where ρ is linear in T, so Matthiessen’s
rule is not obeyed. Surprisingly, there is a greater tendency to follow
Matthiessen’s rule with increasing δ in the x= 0.03 [Fig. 2(c)] and 0.07
[Fig. 4(c)] samples.

The effects of Zn doping on the "pseudogap" feature in ρ at intermediate
δ are more clearly seen in Fig. 3(a), in which ρ is shown as a function
of x at δ= 0.23. Clearly, Matthiessen’s rule is not obeyed in this
underdoped sample, in contrast to the optimally doped case (δ= 0.05,
Fig. 1 and Refs. [7] and [8]). In common with previous studies on
samples with x= 0,[1] we associate a drop in ρ below the extrapolation
of its high-temperature linear T dependence with a reduction in
scattering due to the opening of the pseudogap. The temperature T^(*) at
which the pseudogap opens is defined as the highest temperature at which
the deviation from linearity occurs, and is seen to be essentially
independent of x, in agreement with Refs. [4] and [10]-[13]. For
temperatures below T^(*), however, the deviation from the linear
extrapolation decreases as x increases, suggesting that the additional
conductivity contribution from the opening of the pseudogap also
decreases with increasing x. This is shown more explicitly in Fig. 3(b),
in which ρ res has been subtracted, and the data have been divided by
αT, where α is the slope of the linear region.

The rise of $\rho_{\rm res}$ with δ in Fig. 2 and the apparent
localization in the x= 0.03 sample in Fig. 3(a) could, in principle, be
due to changes in the quality of the grain boundaries as the
deoxygenation is performed. Any changes that occur are certainly
reversible, as the films could be cycled to and from optimum doping
without a significant change in the resistivity. The data shown in Fig.
4 give further evidence that the rise in $\rho_{\rm res}$ is intrinsic.
If oxygen depletion is continued until superconductivity is destroyed,
all the films make a superconductor to insulator transition at
approximately the same resistivity. This low-temperature behavior has
been carefully studied in ultrathin Bi films,[18] in which it occurs as
a sheet resistance of approximately h/(2e)². This observation has been
accounted for in terms of pair localization in all two-dimensional
superconductors.[19] We see the transition at a value which is
independent of the combination of x and δ that is used, giving
confidence that we are observing a universal phenomenon, but the sheet
resistance is close to h/(2e)² per formula unit, or per CuO₂_bilayer_. A
similar observation was made by Mandrus _et al._,[20] who studied
Bi₂Sr₂(Ca_(1 − x)Y_(x))Cu₂O₈ single crystals, which also have two CuO₂
planes per formula unit. In single-layer materials such as Bi₂Sr₂CuO₆
(Ref. [21]) or La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄,[22] the value appears to be close
to h/(2e)² per CuO₂ plane.

The coupling between the constituent planes of the bilayers in
YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) is difficult to estimate experimentally, as most
measures of the anisotropy are sensitive to the larger separation
between the bilayers. So it is unclear whether the observation of the
transition at h/(2e)² per bilayer is simply due to a much stronger
coupling between the constituent

Figure 2: The resistivity of three films with x= 0.01, 0.02, and 0.03,
respectively, for a series of δ values.

planes, or whether it is connected with a fundamental property of
pairing in the bilayer cuprates.

Another question concerns the mechanism of the localization. Weak
localization has been identified in Bi₂Sr₂CuO₆ by Jing _et al._ on the
basis of negative transverse magnetoresistance (MR) in the localization
regime.[23] We observe only a positive transverse MR in fields up to 7 T
for a fully localized x = 0.03, δ = 0.56 sample down to temperatures as
low as 3.5 K, even though ρ increases as −ln T below 12 K, so our data
are not really consistent with weak localization. In Ref. [23] weak
localization occurs for a nonsuperconducting sample whose sheet
resistance is less than 1.5 kΩ per CuO₂ layer, so the mechanism may well
be different from that responsible for the localization here and in
Refs. [20]−[22], where the sheet resistance is much higher.

In conclusion, we have studied the resistivity of
YBa₂(Cu_(1 − x)Zn_(x))₃O_(7 − δ) over a wide range of x and δ, and have
shown that Matthiessen’s rule is obeyed well at δ ∼ 0, but is violated
at other values of δ. There is also evidence that Zn substitution fills
in the pseudogap that occurs in underdoped YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ). As T_(c) is
lowered by a combination of Zn doping and oxygen depletion,
superconductivity is destroyed at a universal value of the sheet
resistance for various combinations of x and δ, but this corresponds to
h/(2e)² per CuO₂ bilayer, for reasons which are not yet entirely
understood.

We are grateful to J. W. Loram, S. Uchida, T. Xiang, and J. M. Wheatley
for useful discussions, and to S. Uchida for showing us data prior to
publication. K. Scott and E. Fung made significant contributions to the
early part of the project. One of us (A.P.M.) gratefully acknowledges
the support of the Royal Society.

## References

* [1] For example, J. M. Harris, Y. F. Yang, and N. P. Ong, Phys. Rev. B
**46**, 14 293 (1992); T. Ito, K. Takenaka, and S. Uchida, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **70**, 3995 (1993); A. Carrington _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **48**,
13 051 (1993). * [2] J. Rossat-Mignod _et al._, Physica C **185-189**,
86 (1991). * [3] H. Alloul _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **67**, 3140
(1991). * [4] A. Janossy _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **50**, 3442 (1994). *
[5] J. W. Loram _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **71**, 1740 (1993). * [6]
Gang Xiao _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **60**, 1446 (1988). * [7] J. R.
Cooper _et al._, Supercond. Sci. Technol. **4**, 5277 (1991).

Figure 3: (a) The x dependence of the resistivity of films for which
δ = 0.23. The pronounced dip below linear resistivity seen for the x = 0
sample disappears as x is increased. (b) The inelastic part of ρ
normalized to the slope of the linear part plotted against temperature
for the same samples.

Figure 4: The superconductor-insulator transition occurs at a similar
value of resistivity even if it is induced by three different
combinations of x and δ.

* [8] T. R. Chien, Z. Z. Wang, and N. P. Ong, Phys. Rev. Lett. **67**,
2088 (1991). * [9] C. Kendziora _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **46**, 14 297
(1992). * [10] J. W. Loram _et al._, Proc. M²S-HTSC IV [Physica C
**235-240**, 134 (1994)]. * [11] K. Kakurai _et al._, Phys. Rev. B
**46**, 14 928 (1993). * [12] A. V. Mahajan _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**72**, 3100 (1994). * [13] J. R. Cooper _et al._ (unpublished). * [14]
D. J. C. Walker, Ph.D. thesis, University of Cambridge, 1994. * [15] A.
P. Mackenzie, Rep. Prog. Phys. **56**, 557 (1993). * [16] S. Zagoulaev
_et al._, Physica C **235-240** (1994); (unpublished). * [17] T. Xiang
and J. M. Wheatley, Phys. Rev. B **51**, 11 721 (1995). * [18] D. B.
Haviland, Y. Liu, and A. M. Goldman, Phys. Rev. Lett. **62**, 2180
(1989). * [19] T. Pang, Phys. Rev. Lett. **62**, 2176 (1989); M. P. A.
Fisher, G. Grinstein, and S. M. Girvin, _ibid._**64**, 587 (1990). *
[20] D. Mandrus _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **44**, 2418 (1991). * [21] S. D.
Hughes _et al._, Physica C **185-189**, 1243 (1991). * [22] S. Uchida
(private communication). * [23] T. W. Jing _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**67**, 761 (1991).
