# Effect of Sn, Nb, and La substitution on superconductivity and
magnetic order

in RuSr2_R_Cu2O8 (_R_ = Eu,Gd)

G. V. M. Williams

2. Physikalisches Institut, Universitat Stuttgart, D-70550 Stuttgart,
Germany

and Industrial Research Limited, P.O. Box 31310, Lower Hutt, New Zealand

Ho Keun Lee

School of Chemical and Physical Sciences, Victoria University of
Wellington, Private Bag, Wellington, New Zealand

and Department of Physics, Kangwon National University, Chunchon
200-701, Republic of Korea

S. Kramer

2. Physikalisches Institut, Universitat Stuttgart, D-70550 Stuttgart,
Germany

Received 27 December 2001; published 28 March 2003

###### Abstract

We report the results from a resistance, and magnetization study on
Ru1 - _A_A_S_T2 - B2 _R_Cu2O8 (_A_ = Sn,Nb, B = La, R = Eu,Gd) where the
parent compound has previously been reported to display
superconductivity and predominately low field antiferromagnetic order.
We show that, contrary to a study on Ru1 - _S_nSnSr2GdCu2O8, there is no
significant change in the superconducting transition temperature when Sn
is substituted for Ru, implying that there is no significant Sn-induced
charge transfer to the CuO2 planes. Furthermore, increasing the Sn
concentration has the effect of increasing the temperature where zero
resistance and the onset of bulk ac diamagnetic shielding occurs, which
we interpret in terms of a decreasing ferromagnetic component leading to
an increase in the temperature where the spontaneous vortex phase
occurs. Contrary to previous studies on the pure compounds, we find an
initial negative _dM_/_dB_ at low temperatures in magnetically ordered
Ru1 - _S_nSnSr2_R_Cu2O8 for Sn concentrations at, and greater than, 0.1.
The substitution of Ru by nuclei that have a larger (Nb5+) or smaller
(Sn4+) valence results in a similar decrease in the magnetic ordering
temperature and an increase in the average Ru valence. La substitution
for Sr causes charge transfer to the CuO2 planes and an increase in the
magnetic ordering temperature that is not expected.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.67.104514 PACS number(s): 74.72.-h, 75.30.Cr,
74.25.Ha, 74.25.Fy + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL REVIEW B **67**,
104514 (2003)

## Introduction

It has recently been reported that the ruthenate cuprate, RuSr2_R_Cu2O8
(_R_ = Gd,Eu) displays superconductivity arising from the CuO2 planes
[1-5] and magnetic order arising from the RuO2 layers [1-6]. These
materials and the related ferromagnetic superconductors, RuSr2R2 -
_A_CeCu2O10 + d, were first discovered by Bauernfeind, Widder, and
Braun. [1,2] It was originally believed that RuSr2_R_Cu2O8 is
ferromagnetic; however, powder neutron diffraction studies have shown
that the low field magnetic order is predominately antiferromagnetic.
[3,4] The small ferromagnetic component, which orders at 132 K, is
believed to be large enough to affect superconductivity unless there is
some form of accommodation via a spatial modulation of the respective
order parameters or a spontaneous vortex phase. [7,8] This model was
originally proposed for the ferromagnetic superconductor, RuSr2R2 -
_A_Ce_Cu2O10 + d. [9] In this model, there exists a spontaneous vortex
phase for _T_SVP < T < T , where the local field, _B_loc, is greater
than the lower critical field _B_cl. For temperatures less than _T_SVP,
_B_cl is greater than _B_loc and hence the bulk diamagnetic transition
occurs. However, it has been suggested that a bulk diamagnetic
transition does not occur in RuSr2_R_Cu2O8 because the derivative of the
initial change in magnetization with increasing applied magnetic field
is positive. [10,11] The application of the spontaneous vortex phase
model to RuSr2_R_Cu2O8 has been indirect [7, 8] and it is not known if
changing the magnetic ordering temperature and the ferromagnetic
component will lead to changes in the magnetization data that are
consistent with the spontaneous vortex model.

Recent theoretical band structure calculations based on the
experimentally observed structure have concluded that antiferromagnetic
order is energetically favored over ferromagnetic order in RuSr2GdCu2O8.
[12] In particular, Nakamura _et al._ showed the importance of including
the effect of the rotations of the RuO6 octahedra. Previous calculations
by Pickett, Weht, and Schick [13] had concluded that the magnetic order
was ferromagnetic but Pickett, Weht, and Schick had used the structure
as determined by the analysis of the x-ray diffraction spectra where
rotations of RuO6 octahedra could not be observed. Unfortunately, the
experimental data shows that the magnetic order is more complex than
purely antiferromagnetic. For example, Takagiwa _et al._[14] have
reported the existence of a significant low field ferromagnetic
component in RuSr2YCu2O8 [ ∼ 0.28μ_(B)/Ru (Ref. [14])], which is ∼24

The similar bond angle distortions and bond lengths in the SrRuO₃
substructure but different average Ru valences in RuSr₂RCu₂O₈ and
RuSr₂R_(2 − x)Ce_(x)Cu₂O_(10 + δ) would appear to suggest that band
filling effects are responsible for the different magnetically ordered
states. This can be contrasted with the ruthenates where isoelectronic
substitution for atoms not in the RuO₂ layers shows that the magnetic
ordering temperature is correlated with the rotation angle of the RuO₆
octahedra and the Ru-O-Ru bond length, [22] which is consistent with a
theoretical study by Mazin and Singh. [23] Electronic doping via
substitutions for atoms not in the RuO₂ layers can lead to a change in
the rotation and tilting of the RuO₆ octahedra as well as electronic
doping in the RuO₂ layers where the individual effects on the magnetic
ordering temperature are not easy to separate. For example, Na⁺
substitution for Sr²⁺ in SrRuO₃ leads to a decrease in the magnetic
ordering temperature as well as a transition from an itinerant
ferromagnetic metal to a ferromagnetic semiconductor. [24] Direct
substitution for Ru by a nonmagnetic atom with the same valence will
lead to a decrease in the magnetic ordering temperature via a dilution
of the magnetic lattice and broken superexchange paths. However, it is
also believed that changes in the rotation and tilting of the RuO₆
octahedra are also important. [25] A study on Ru_(1 − x)Sn_(x)Sr₂GdCu₂O₈
showed that the magnetic ordering temperature decreased with increasing
Sn concentration. [26] This was accompanied by a large change in the
Ru-O-Ru bond angle distortion that is nearly half of that observed in
Sr_(1 − x)Ca_(x)RuO₃, [22] which indicates that bond angle distortions
and bond length changes also contribute to the decrease in the magnetic
ordering temperature. The magnetization and resistance data were
interpreted in terms of a fixed Ru valence of 4+ and charge transfer
between the CuO₂ and RuO₂ layers. However, the x = 0 and x = 0.1 samples
did not show zero resistance at a finite temperature and more recent
measurements have found a mixed Ru valence in the pure compounds. [17,
18, 19]

It is apparent that further experimental research is required to enable
a better understanding of the magnetic and superconducting order in the
ruthenate cuprates. In this paper, we report the results from a
resistance and magnetization study on RuSr₂_R_Cu₂O₈, where the
superconducting and magnetic order were probed by substituting La for
Sr, Sn for Ru, and Nb for Ru.

## Experimental Details

The Ru_(1 − x)Sn_(x)Sr₂EuCu₂O₈, Ru_(1 − x)Nb_(x)Sr₂EuCu₂O₈, and
RuSr_(1 − x)La_(x)EuCu₂O₈ ceramic samples were made from a
stoichiometric mix of RuO₂, SnO₂, Nb₂O₅, SrCO₃, La₂O₃, Eu₂O₃, Gd₂O₃, and
CuO. The powder was first calcined in air at 960 degC for 12 h. The
samples were then pressed into pellets and sintered at 1010 degC in N₂
gas for 10 h, 1050 degC in O₂ gas for 10 h, 1055 degC in O₂ gas for 10
h, and 1060 degC in O₂ gas for 10 h, 24 h, and 7 days. The samples were
reground after sintering at each temperature. The initial sintering at
1010 degC was performed to suppress the formation of ferromagnetic
SrRuO₃. As found in a previous study, [22] all
Ru_(1 − x)Sn_(x)Sr₂_R_Cu₂O₈ samples with x > 0 showed evidence of SrSnO₃
in the x-ray diffraction spectra which could not be decreased by
additional sintering. However, as we show later, the magnetic ordering
temperatures are lower than those found in the previous study on
Ru_(1 − x)Sn_(x)Sr₂GdCu₂O₈ for similar Sn concentrations. Furthermore,
all our pure and Sn substituted samples display a zero resistance at
finite temperatures, which was not reported in the previous study. There
was no evidence of impurity phases in the Ru_(1 − x)Nb_(x)Sr₂EuCu₂O₈ and
RuSr_(1.9)La_(0.1)EuCu₂O₈ x-ray diffraction spectra.

The ac and dc magnetization measurements were made using a SQUID
magnetometer. The ac magnetization measurements were made with an ac
field of 5 mT and a frequency of 1 kHz. The remanent magnetic field of
the superconducting magnetic was ±0.6 mT. The resistance measurements
were made using the four terminal technique.

## Results and Analyses

We show in Fig. 1 the normalized resistance data from
Ru_(1 − x)Sn_(x)Sr₂GdCu₂O₈ [Fig. 1(a)] with x = 0 (solid curve) and x =
0.2 (dashed curve) and Ru_(1 − x)Sn_(x)Sr₂EuCu₂O₈ [Fig. 1(b)] with x =
0, 0.1, and 0.3 (solid curves). Unlike the study on
Ru_(1 − x)Sn_(x)Sr₂GdCu₂O₈, [26] we find that the resistance for x = 0
and x = 0.2 does reach zero at a finite temperature. Furthermore, the
temperature where the resistance is zero, T_(c)^(R)(0), systematically
increases with increasing Sn concentration for both the
Ru_(1 − x)Sn_(x)Sr₂GdCu₂O₈ and Ru_(1 − x)Sn_(x)Sr₂EuCu₂O₈ samples. It is
possible that the samples used in the previous study on
Ru_(1 − x)Sn_(x)Sr₂GdCu₂O₈ (Ref. [26]) were very disordered because it
is known that annealing for an additional seven days leads to a
T_(c)^(R)(0) of ∼35 K in RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈. [27, 28]

It has previously been shown that superconductivity in RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈
occurs at ∼45 K and corresponds to the initial decrease in the
resistance but the bulk diamagnetic transition occurs for temperatures
below ∼35 K. [1, 27, 28] A similar effect was observed in RuSr₂EuCu₂O₈
where superconductivity and the initial decrease in the resistance occur
near 32 K while the transition into the bulk diamagnetic state occurs
near 12 K. [8, 15] As mentioned earlier, this has been attributed to the
existence of a spontaneous vortex phase. The normal-state resistance
data shows a semiconductorlike increase for temperatures less than ∼100
K. It has recently been shown that this semiconductorlike increase is
not intrinsic and is due to intergranular transport.[8] Therefore, it is
not appropriate to use the initial decrease in the resistance as the
criterion to determine T_(c). This is especially pertinent to the
previous study on Ru_(1 − x)Sn_(x)Sr₂GdCu₂O₈ where a semiconductorlike
upturn was observed for all Sn concentrations and the peak in the
resistance data was used to determine that T_(c) increased from 36 K to
48 K as the Sn concentration increased from 0 to 0.2.[26] However, it is
apparent in Fig. 1 that there is no well-defined peak in the resistance
data for Ru_(1 − x)Sn_(x)Sr₂EuCu₂O₈ with x = 0.3 or
Ru_(1 − x)Sn_(x)Sr₂GdCu₂O₈ with x = 0.2 that can be used to estimate
T_(c). It has previously been argued that T_(c) in the pure compound can
also be estimated from the temperature where there is a significant
increase in the derivative of the resistance.[27, 29] If we use a
similar criteria to estimate T_(c) using the resistance data from our
Ru_(1 − x)Sn_(x)Sr₂GdCu₂O₈ samples, we obtain T_(c) values of 52 K and
49 K for x = 0 and x = 0.2, respectively. Thus, unlike the previous
study on Ru_(1 − x)Sn_(x)Sr₂GdCu₂O₈, we find no significant change in
T_(c) , as estimated from the resistance data, with increasing Sn
concentration.

Also plotted in Fig. 1(b) is the normalized resistance from
Ru_(0.6)Nb_(0.4)Sr₂EuCu₂O₈ (dashed curve) and RuSr_(1.9)La_(0.1)EuCu₂O₈
(dotted curve), where it can be seen that both samples do not exhibit a
metallic ground state at low temperatures. The disappearance of
superconductivity when La is substituted for Sr or Nb is substituted for
Ru is likely to be due to charge transfer to the CuO₂ planes and hence a
decrease in the hole concentration on the CuO₂ planes. We first note
that studies on the high temperature superconducting cuprates have shown
that there is a good correlation between T_(c) and the hole
concentration, p, on the CuO₂ planes where superconductivity exists for
0.05≤p≤0.27. In particular, it has been found that

$$T_{c}(p)\!=\!T_{c,\rm max}[\,1\!-\!82.6(p\!-\!0.16)^{2}\,],$$
(1)

where $T_{c,\rm max}$ is the maximum T_(c) for each family of
superconductors.[30] It should be noted that p is not the carrier
concentration on the CuO₂ planes because the carrier concentration
cannot be estimated in the usual way via the Hall coefficient owing to
the strong dependence of the Hall coefficient on temperature. Rather, p
derives from valence counting. For example, it is directly proportional
to the Sr content in La_(2 − p)Sr_(p)CuO₄. The effect of increasing
(e.g., La³⁺ for Sr²⁺ in YBa₂Cu₃O₇) or decreasing (e.g., Ca²⁺ for Y³⁺ in
YBa₂Cu₃O₇) the valence at one of the atomic sites can lead to a decrease
or increase in p. Recent studies have shown that RuSr₂EuCu₂O₈ is very
underdoped where p ∼ 0.07.[27, 31] Thus, substituting 0.1La³⁺ for Sr²⁺
could correspond to a maximum decrease in p to 0.02, which is in the
insulator region. Similarly, applying the simple valence counting model
to the substitution of Nb for Ru (average valence 4.62) shows that p
could decrease to as low as −0.01, assuming that there is no change in
the Ru valence. We show later that there is a small Nb-induced increase
in the average Ru valence to 4.77 that corresponds to a decrease in p to
−0.05, which is in the insulator region. Note that if there was charge
transfer to the CuO₂ planes in the Sn-substituted samples this would
cause an increase of the hole concentration from ∼0.07 to ∼0.16 for
0.3Sn substitution. According to Eq. (1), T_(c) should increase
considerably. However, as mentioned above a significant change in T_(c)
is not observed. This implies that there is no Sn-induced charge
transfer to the CuO₂ planes and hence, in a simple valence counting
model, Sn substitution should lead to an increase in the average Ru
valence in the RuO₂ layers leading to an average Ru valence of up to
4.89 for x = 0.3.

The onset of bulk ac diamagnetic shielding for
Ru_(1 − x)Sn_(x)Sr₂_R_Cu₂O₈ can be seen in Fig. 2, where we plot the ac
susceptibility. We use the ac susceptibility rather than dc
susceptibility, because the remanent magnetization from the SQUID
magnetometer superconducting magnet is close to the field where the bulk
dc diamagnetic phase disappears in the pure samples. Furthermore, the
small remanent field is sufficient to partially align the ferromagnetic
component from the RuO₂ planes. It is clear than Sn substitution
systematically increases the temperature where the transition into the
bulk ac diamagnetic state commences. The real part of the ac
susceptibility data also contains a contribution from the small
ferromagnetic component, and hence the transition to the bulk
diamagnetic state commences at a temperature greater than that where
χ^(′) = 0 occurs. The onset of bulk ac diamagnetic shielding in
Ru_(1 − x)Sn_(x)Sr₂EuCu₂O₈ is clear in the inset to Fig. 2(b), where we
plot the imaginary part of the ac susceptibility, χ^(′′). Thus, the bulk
ac diamagnetic transition for Ru_(1 − x)Sn_(x)Sr₂EuCu₂O₈ commences at
temperatures of 11, 16, and 20 K for x = 0, 0.1, and 0.3, respectively.
We show below that there is also a Sn-induced decrease in the ferro

Figure 1: Plot of the resistance against temperature for
Ru_(1 − x)Sn_(x)Sr₂_R_Cu₂O₈ with (a) R =  Gd and x = 0 (solid curve) and
x = 0.2 (dashed curve), (b) R =  Eu and x = 0, 0.1, and 0.3 where the
arrow indicates increasing Sn concentration and the solid line indicates
the superconducting transition temperature in the pure compound reported
in other studies. Also shown in (b) is the resistance data from
Ru_(0.6)Nb_(0.4)Sr₂EuCu₂O₈ (dashed curve) and RuSr_(1.9)La_(0.1)EuCu₂O₈
(dotted curve).

magnetic component of the magnetization and the low temperature and high
field magnetization. Thus, within the spontaneous vortex phase model,
the increase in the diamagnetic transition temperature can be attributed
to a decrease in the local field arising from the ferromagnetic
component in the RuO₂ layers.

Unlike previous studies on RuSr₂EuCu₂O₈ and RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈, we find that
the dc magnetization initially decreases with increasing magnetic field
at 2 K for Sn concentrations ≥0.1. This is apparent in Fig. 3, where we
plot the initial magnetization against the applied magnetic field at 2 K
for Ru_(1 − x)Sn_(x)Sr₂EuCu₂O₈ with x = 0, 0.1, and 0.3. It can be seen
in Figs. 4(a) and 4(b) that these samples are still magnetically ordered
where the magnetic ordering temperature is above the superconducting
ordering temperature.

As mentioned earlier, it has been argued that the absence of an initial
negative dM/dB in magnetically ordered RuSr₂ReCu₂O₈ implies the absence
of a bulk diamagnetic transition in this compound.[10]

It is clear in Fig. 4 that Sn or Nb substitution for Ru significantly
suppresses the magnetic ordering temperature, while La substitution for
Sr results in a small increase in the magnetic ordering temperature. The
peak in the ac and dc data for the pure compound is also observed in
RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈ at the same temperature of 132 K (not shown). This peak is
close to the magnetic ordering temperature defined as the temperature
where dM/dT is a maximum negative value. The effect of Sn or Nb
substitution is to broaden the peak observed in the ac data and in the
zero-field-cooled magnetization data for small applied fields. However,
this low field peak has disappeared in the La substituted sample. Note
that the magnetization data for the x = 0.3 Sn sample also has a small
peak near 65 K, which indicates that there is an inhomogeneous Sn
distribution. Despite repeated annealing, we were unable to reduce the
magnitude of this small peak.

The low field peak at 132 K observed in the pure compound disappears for
applied magnetic fields greater than ∼0.25 T and the zero-field-cooled
and field-cooled hysteresis

Figure 3: Plot of the dc magnetization against applied magnetic field at
2 K for Ru_(1 − x)Sn_(x)Sr₂EuCu₂O₈ with x = 0 (solid curve), 0.1 (dotted
curve) and 0.3 (dashed curve). The data have not been corrected for
demagnetizing effects. The arrow indicates increasing Sn concentration.

Figure 2: Plot of χ^(′) against temperature for
Ru_(1 − x)Sn_(x)Sr₂_R_Cu₂O₈ with (a) $R\!=\!{\rm Gd}$ and x = 0 (solid
curve) and x = 0.2 (dashed curve), (b) $R\!=\!{\rm Eu}$ and x = 0, 0.1,
and 0.3 where the arrow indicates increasing Sn concentration. The data
have not been corrected for demagnetizing effects. Inset: Plot of the
corresponding χ^(′′) against temperature.

behavior disappears for applied magnetic fields greater than 2 T. The
hysteresis behavior has been attributed to the small ferromagnetic
component.[15] The appearance of bulk dc diamagnetic shielding at 5 mT
for Sn substituted samples and x 0.1 makes it difficult to use the low
temperature field-cooled magnetization to estimate the ferromagnetic
component, as has been done for the pure compound.[15] However, it is
evident in Fig. 4(b) that, in the absence of diamagnetic shielding, the
low-temperature field-cooled magnetization from the x = 0.1 sample is
 44

The resulting magnetic ordering temperatures are plotted in Fig. 5,
where it is apparent that Sn or Nb substitution for Ru cause a similar
decrease in the magnetic ordering temperature. We note that the magnetic
ordering temperature for our x = 0.3 sample (35 K) is significantly less
than that reported in Ru_(1 − x)Sn_(x)Sr₂GdCu₂O₈ with a similar nominal
Sn concentration [ 87 K (Ref. 26)]. The origin of the similar decrease
in the magnetic ordering temperatures is discussed later. The effect of
La substitution for Sr is to increase the magnetic ordering temperature
to 160 K, which is not expected when compared with similar substitutions
in the ruthenates and assuming that there is no charge transfer to the
RuO₂ layers. For example, in Sr_(1 − x)Ca_(x)RuO₃ , substituting Ca
(ionic radii 0.112 nm) for the larger Sr (ionic radii 0.126 nm) results
in an increase in the Ru-O-Ru bond angle distortion that affects the
superexchange interaction and leads to a decrease in the magnetic
ordering temperature.[22] The La ionic radii (0.116 nm) is also less
than that of Sr (0.126 nm) and hence it might be expected that La
substitution for Sr in RuSr₂_R_Cu₂O₈ should also lead to an increase in
the Ru-O-Ru bond angle distortion and hence a decrease in the magnetic
ordering temperature.

The effect of Sn, Nb, or La substitution on the magnetic field
dependence of the magnetization in RuSr₂EuCu₂O₈ can be seen in Fig. 6.
The curves for Ru_(1 − x)Sn_(x)Sr₂GdCu₂O₈ are not shown because they are
significantly distorted by the large moment from Gd³⁺, which
magnetically orders near 2.5 K.[3] The general feature of a gradual
increase in the magnetization with increasing magnetic field is
preserved irrespective of the substituted atom. In the case of the pure
compound, the slow increase in the magnetization was attributed to a
spin-flop transition[15] that was also evident from neutron diffraction
measurements.[3, 14] Unfortunately, there is no neutron diffraction data
for the substituted samples; however, the similar general increase in
the magnetization may suggest a similar spin-flop transition from a
predominately antiferromagnetic low field state.

The remanent magnetization for the pure compound is  0.034μ_(B)/Ru site,
which is slightly less than that found in a previous study
( 0.05μ_(B)/Ru site[15]). It decreases to  0.015μ_(B)/Ru site for 0.4Nb
substitution for Ru and for 0.1La substitution for Sr. The remanent
magnetization is  0.023μ_(B)/Ru site and 0.026μ_(B)/Ru site for the Sn
substituted samples with x = 0.1 and 0.3, respectively, but these values
are significantly affected by dc diamagnetic shielding. The effect of
increasing Sn and Nb substitution for Ru, as well as La substitution for
Sr is to decrease the high field magnetization, as can be seen in Fig.
6. This is more evident in the lower right inset to Fig. 6, where the
magnetization is plotted at 6 T and per Ru site rather than per Ru atom
(solid symbols). Correcting for the actual Ru concentration when Nb is
substituted for Ru leads to a magnetization per Ru atom that is  86

Figure 5: The magnetic ordering temperature against x for
Ru_(1 − x)Sn_(x)Sr₂EuCu₂O₈ (filled circles), Ru_(1 − x)Sn_(x)Sr₂GdCu₂O₈
(filled diamond) and Ru_(0.6)Nb_(0.4)Sr₂EuCu₂O₈ (filled up triangle).

Figure 6: Plot of the dc magnetization against applied magnetic field at
5 K for Ru_(1 − x)Sn_(x)Sr₂EuCu₂O₈ with x = 0, 0.1, and 0.3,
Ru_(0.6)Nb_(0.4)Sr₂EuCu₂O₈ and RuSr_(1.9)La_(0.1)EuCu₂O₈. The initial
increase in the magnetization has been removed for clarity. Lower right
plot: Plot of the magnetization per Ru site at 5 K and 6 T for
Ru_(1 − x)Sn_(x)Sr₂EuCu₂O₈ with x = 0, 0.1, and 0.3 (filled circles) and
Ru_(0.6)Nb_(0.4)Sr₂EuCu₂O₈ (filled up triangle). Also shown is the
magnetization per Ru atom for Ru_(0.6)Nb_(0.4)Sr₂EuCu₂O₈ (open up
triangle).

phase means that the exact Sn fraction on the Ru sites in unknown and
hence it is not possible to perform a similar calculation for the Sn
substituted samples. However, it is clear that the magnetization at 6 T
for x = 0.3 is less than 70

As mentioned earlier, there is no Sn-induced charge transfer to the CuO2
planes and hence Sn substitution is expected to increase the average Ru
valence. To determine if Nb substitution also changes the effective Ru
valence, we estimate the moment per Ru atom above the magnetic ordering
temperature in a manner similar to that of Butera _et al._[32] for the
Ru0.6Nb0.4Sr2EuCu2O8 sample using the data plotted in Fig. 7. Here we
plot _M_/_H_ for an applied magnetic field of 1 T (filled up triangles).
We show in the inset that _M_/_H_ is independent of field for T > 130 K,
which is  80 K above the magnetic ordering temperature. The temperature
above which _M_/_H_ is independent of field is significantly less than
that found in RuSr2EuCu2O8, where _M_/_H_ is independent of field for
temperatures above 200 K. [15] This corresponds to  70 K above the
magnetic ordering temperature and provides additional evidence that the
intrinsic magnetic ordering temperature is reduced rather than phase
separation occurring. Therefore, we fit the data in Fig. 7 above 150 K,
and in the region where _M_/_H_ is independent of field, to

χ = c/(T − ϑ) + χ_(VV) + χ₀

The first term is the Currie-Weiss term from the Ru moments with ϑ being
the Curie-Weiss temperature and c =
$\mu_{0}\rho N_{A}(1 - x)\mu_{B}^{2}P_{\rm eff}^{2}(M_{r}3k_{B})$ where
μ₀ is the vacuum permeability, r is the sample density, _NA_ is
Avogadro’s constant, m_(B) is the Bohr magneton, M_(r) is the molecular
weight, k_(B) is Boltzmann’s constant, and _P_eff is the Ru effective
Bohr magneton number. For Ru4+ with a low spin t_(2g)⁴ ground state,
_P_eff=2.83 and for Ru5+ with a t_(2g)³ ground state, _P_eff =3.87. The
second term in Eq. (1) is the van Vleck paramagnetism from Eu3+. As in a
previous study, we use the crystal field parameter of 303 cm-1 found in
Eu2CuO4. [33] This term is plotted in Fig. 7 (dashed curve). The final
term in Eq. (2) contains the Pauli spin susceptibility from the CuO2
planes, any temperature independent Stoner enhanced term from the RuO2
layers and orbital and core terms. The contribution from the CuO2 planes
is small and less than 4 x 10-5 in the high temperature superconducting
cuprates. [34] Therefore, we approximate the contribution from the CuO2
planes as being temperature independent.

The resultant fit to Eq. (2) is plotted in Fig. 7. The fitting
parameters are ϑ = 29 K, _P_eff=3.66, and _kh_0=12 x 10-5. We find that
ϑ is positive and  21 K is less than the magnetic ordering temperature.
A positive ϑ would appear to suggest ferromagnetic correlations.
However, a positive ϑ was also observed in the pure compound (ϑ = 100 K)
even though neutron diffraction measurements have now shown that the low
temperature ground state is predominately ferromagnetic. [34] A similar
apparent contradiction was observed in CaRuO3, where a negative ϑ occurs
that would appear to suggest antiferromagnetic correlations. [35]
However, recent studies have shown that the correlations are
ferromagnetic. [36] In the case of the Ru1-_A_A_S_T_2-_B_,B,_R_Cu2O8
compounds these discrepancies between the paramagnetic Curie-Weiss
temperature and the low field magnetic ground state are related to the
fact that the low-temperature magnetic ground state strongly depends on
the external magnetic field. For example, as mentioned above,
RuSr2_R_Cu2O8 displays a large antiferromagnetic component for low
applied fields and a spin-flop transition into a ferromagnetic state
with increasing applied magnetic field. [34, 16, 14]

The fitted value of _P_eff implies an average Ru valence of  4.77, which
is greater than that found in the pure compound [ 4.62 (Ref. [17])] from
the analysis of the XANES data. In a simple valence counting model,
replacing Ru (average valence 4.62) with Nb5+ should lead to a decrease
in the average Ru valence. Thus, similar to Sn substitution for Ru, we
find that Nb5+ substitution also leads to an increase in the average Ru
valence. Consequently, there is charge transfer to the CuO2 planes,
which is consistent with the absence of superconductivity.

_kh_0 is larger than that found in the high-temperature superconducting
cuprates, which indicates that there is a contribution from the RuO2
planes. By comparison with SrRuO3, we expect the orbital and core terms
to be small and hence _kh_0 is dominated by the spin susceptibility in
the RuO2 planes. We note that _kh_0 is less than that found in SrRuO3
[ 50x10-5 (Ref. [25])], which has a significant Stoner enhancement.

Thus both Nb and Sn substitution for Ru lead to an increase in the
average Ru valence as well as similar decreases in the magnetic ordering
temperature. However, there is no evidence for a major change in the
magnetic order or spin correlations from that observed in the pure
compound. Rather, the major effect of Nb and Sn substitution is to
dilute the magnetic lattice, leading to a decrease in the magnetic
ordering temperature. There is also the added effect of the increase in
the Ru-O-Ru bond angle distortions observed in Ru1-_x_Sn_x_Z_GdCu2O8.
[26] In the absence of neutron diffrac

Figure 7: Plot of _M_/_H_ against temperature for Ru0.6Nb0.4Sr2EuCu2O8
(filled up triangles) for an applied magnetic field of 1 T. The dashed
curve is the calculated Eu3+ van Vleck paramagnetism contribution. The
solid curve is a fit to the data as described in the text. Inset: Plot
of _M_/_H_ against temperature for Ru0.6Nb0.4Sr2EuCu2O8 with applied
magnetic fields of 1, 3, and 6 T. The arrow indicates increasing applied
magnetic field.

tion data, it would seem reasonable to speculate that there is an
increase in the RuO₆ rotation angle induced by Nb substitution.

## Conclusion

In conclusion, we find that Sn substitution for Ru in
Ru_(1 − x)Sn_(x)Sr₂RCu₂O₈ results in a systematic increase in the
temperature where the bulk ac diamagnetic transition commences. This can
be accounted for within the spontaneous vortex phase interpretation, by
a decrease in the local field from the ferromagnetic component in the
RuO₂ planes. We also find that dM/dB is initially negative for
magnetically ordered Ru_(1 − x)Sn_(x)Sr₂RCu₂O₈ when x≫0.1, which is not
observed in the pure compound. The appearance of an initially negative
dM/dB for x≫0.1 may be related to the decrease in the magnitude of the
ferromagnetic component. The absence of superconductivity when 0.1 La is
substituted for Sr or 0.4 Nb is substituted for Ru is likely to be due
to a decrease in the hole concentration on the CuO₂ planes. However,
contrary to a previous report, we find no evidence for Sn-induced charge
transfer to the CuO₂ layers. Substitution of Sn or Nb for Ru, which is
believed to have an average valence of ∼4.62 in the pure compound, leads
to comparable decreases in the magnetic ordering temperature and an
increase in the average Ru valence. However, there is no evidence for a
change in the nature of the magnetic correlations or magnetic order. The
magnetic ordering temperature decreases primarily due to a spin dilution
of the magnetic lattice as well as broken superexchange paths. There is
also the additional effect of an increase in the Ru-O-Ru bond angle
distortion in Sn-substituted RuSr₂RCu₂O₈ and it is possible that a
similar decrease in the Ru-O-Ru bond angle distortion occurs in
Nb-substituted RuSr₂RCu₂O₈. The small decrease in the low-temperature
moment per Ru is likely to be a consequence of spin dilution and broken
superexchange paths. La substitution for Sr leads to a small increase in
the magnetic ordering temperature that, by comparison with ruthenate
compounds, is not expected.

###### Acknowledgements.

We acknowledge funding support from the New Zealand Marsden Fund (GVMW),
the Alexander von Humboldt Foundation (GVMW), and from the Kangwon
National University (H.K.L.). We thank Victoria University of Wellington
for the provision of some of the facilities and R. Fairlie and N. Gibson
for preparing and characterizing some of the samples.

## References

* (1) L. Bauernfeind, W. Widder, and H. F. Braun, Physica C **254**, 151
(1995). * (2) L. Bauernfeind, W. Widder, and H. F. Braun, J. Low Temp.
Phys. **105**, 1605 (1996). * (3) J. W. Lynn, B. Keimer, C. Ulrich, C.
Bernhard, and J. L. Tallon, Phys. Rev. B **61**, 14 964 (2000). * (4) J.
D. Jorgensen, O. Chmaissem, H. Shaked, S. Short, P. W. Klamut, B.
Dabrowski, and J. L. Tallon, Phys. Rev. B **63**, 054440 (2001). * (5)
C. Bernhard, J. L. Tallon, Ch. Neidermayer, Th. Blasius, A. Golnik, E.
Brucher, R. K. Kremer, D. R. Noakes, C. E. Stronach, and E. J. Ansaldo,
Phys. Rev. B **59**, 14 099 (1999). * (6) I. Felner, U. Asaf, S. Reich,
and Y. Tsabba, Physica C **311**, 163 (1999). * (7) C. Bernhard, J. L.
Tallon, E. Bruecher, and K. K. Kremer, Phys. Rev. B **61**, 14 960
(2000). * (8) M. Pozek, A. Dulcic, D. Paar, G. V. M. Williams, and S.
Kramer, Phys. Rev. B **64**, 064508 (2001). * (9) E. B. Sonin and I.
Felner, Phys. Rev. B **57**, 14 000 (1998). * (10) Y. Y. Xue, R. L.
Meng, J. Cmaidalka, B. Lorenz, L. M. Desaneti, A. K. Heilman, and C. W.
Chu, Physica C **341-348**, 459 (2000). * (11) C. W. Chu, Y. Y. Xue, S.
Tsui, J. Cmaidalka, A. K. Heilman, B. Lorenz, and R. L. Meng, Physica C
**335**, 231 (2000). * (12) K. Nakamura, K. T. Park, and J. D.
Jorgensen, Phys. Rev. B **63**, 024507 (2001). * (13) W. E. Pickett, R.
Weht, and A. B. Schick, Phys. Rev. Lett. **83**, 3713 (1999). * (14) H.
Takagiwa, J. Akimitsu, H. Kawano-Furukawa, and H. Yoshizawa, J. Phys.
Soc. Jpn. **70**, 333 (2001). * (15) G. V. M. Williams and S. Kramer,
Phys. Rev. B **62**, 4132 (2000). * (16) G. V. M. Williams, A. C.
McLaughlin, J. P. Attfield, S. Kramer, and H. K. Lee, cond-mat/0108521
(unpublished). * (17) R. S. Liu, L.-Y. Jang, H.-H. Hung, and J. L.
Tallon, Phys. Rev. B **63**, 212507 (2001). * (18) K. Kumagai, S.
Takada, and Y. Furukawa, Phys. Rev. B **63**, 180509 (2001). * (19) Y.
Tokunaga, H. Kotegawa, K. Ishida, Y. Kitaoka, H. Takagiwa, and J.
Akimitsu, Phys. Rev. Lett. **86**, 5767 (2001). * (20) I. Felner, U.
Asaf, C. Godart, and E. Alleno, Physica B **259-261**, 703 (1999). *
(21) G. V. M. Williams, L.-Y. Jang, and R. S. Liu, Phys. Rev. B **65**,
064508 (2002). * (22) T. He, Q. Huang, and R. J. Cava, Phys. Rev. B
**63**, 024402 (2000). * (23) I. I. Mazin and D. J. Singh, Phys. Rev. B
**56**, 2556 (1997). * (24) M. Shepard, G. Cao, S. McCall, F. Freiberl,
and J. E. Crow, J. Appl. Phys. **79**, 4821 (1996). * (25) C. Cao, S.
McCall, J. Bolivar, M. Shepard, F. Freibert, P. Henning, J. E. Crow, and
T. Yuen, Phys. Rev. B **54**, 15 144 (1996). * (26) A. C. McLaughlin and
J. P. Attfield, Phys. Rev. B **60**, 14 605 (1999). * (27) J. L. Tallon,
J. W. Loram, G. W. M. Williams, and C. Bernhard, Phys. Rev. B **61**,
6471 (2000). * (28) A. C. McLaughlin, W. Zhou, J. P. Attfield, A. N.
Fitch, and J. L. Tallon, Phys. Rev. B **60**, 7512 (1999). * (29) D. J.
Pringle, J. L. Tallon, B. G. Walker, and H. J. Trodahl, Phys. Rev. B
**59**, 11 679 (1999). * (30) M. R. Presland, J. L. Tallon, R. G.
Buckley, R. S. Liu, and N. E. Flower, Physica C **176**, 95 (1991).

* [31] S. Kramer and G. V. M. Williams, Physica C **377**, 282 (2002). *
[32] A. Butera, A. Fainstein, E. Winkler, and J. L. Tallon, Phys. Rev. B
**63**, 054442 (2001). * [33] M. Tovar, D. Rao, J. Barnett, S. B.
Oseroff, J. D. Thompson,S.-W. Cheong, Z. Fisk, D. C. Vier, and S.
Schultz, Phys. Rev. B **39**, 2661 (1989). * [34] M. Takigawa, A. P.
Reyes, P. C. Hammel, J. D. Thompson, R. H. Heffner, Z. Fisk, and K. C.
Ott, Phys. Rev. B **43**, 247 (1991). * [35] G. Cao, S. McCall, M.
Shepard, J. E. Crow, and R. P. Guertin, Phys. Rev. B **56**, 321
(1997). * [36] K. Yoshimura, T. Imai, T. Kiyama, K. R. Thurber, A. W.
Hunt, and K. Kosuge, Phys. Rev. Lett. **83**, 4397 (1999).
