Fluctuation of vortices and the fluxon transition in
Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O_(8 + y) single crystals

Y. Zhao

School of Materials Science and Engineering, University of New South
Wales, P.O. Box 1,

Kensington 2033 New South Wales, Australia

G. D. Gu

Advanced Electronic Materials, School of Physics, University of New
South Wales, P.O. Box 1,

Kensington 2033 New South Wales, Australia

J. W. NeNamura

Superconductivity Research Laboratory, International Superconductivity
Technology Center, 10-13 Shinonome 1-chrome,

Koto-ku, Tokyo 135, Japan

S. Tajima

Superconductivity Research Laboratory, International Superconductivity
Technology Center, 10-13 Shinonome 1-chrome,

Koto-ku, Tokyo 135, Japan

N. Koshizuka

Superconductivity Research Laboratory, International Superconductivity
Technology Center, 10-13 Shinonome 1-chrome,

Koto-ku, Tokyo 135, Japan

###### Abstract

An anomalously broad foot structure is observed in the zero-field
resistive transition for the _ab_ plane of Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O_(8 + y) single
crystals, which are found to have a high density of dislocations.
However, this anomalous behavior is not apparent for resistive
measurements along the c axis. The foot structure can be treated as a
superposition of a long resistance tail and a dissipation peak, in which
the long resistance tail obeys the theory of KT scaling behavior of
resistivity. The dissipation peak is related to the fluxon transition in
Josephson-coupled layered superconductors as detailed by Horovitz [Phys.
Rev. Lett. **72**, 1569 (1994)].

pacs: 0163-1829/95/51(6)/3806(6)/S06.00 + Footnote †: preprint:
PUPT-12-12

## I Introduction

The recently discovered high-temperature superconductors (HTSC’s) are
strong type-II superconductors with an intrinsic multilayered
structure.[1] Because of their extremely anisotropic structure and very
weak coupling between the superconducting layers (CuO₂ planes), this
multilayered system exhibits some features similar to a
quasi-two-dimensional (2D) system, as observed in electronic
transport,[2]⁻[4] thermal fluctuations,[5] vortex dynamics,[6]^(,)[7]
etc.

For a typical HTSC material, such as Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O_(x) (BSCCO), a flux
line parallel to the c axis is cut by superconducting layers into a
series of vortex pancakes sitting in neighboring superconducting layers,
and at high temperature (close to _T_(c)_) thermal fluctuations
dissociate this series into independently moving pancakes.[8] The system
exhibits a strong fluctuation of vortices like a two-dimensional (2D)
system, and a Kosterlitz-Thouless (KT)-type transition.[9] Recently, Wan
_et al.[10]_ discovered that in Bi-2212 single crystals with decreasing
temperature, the Josephson interaction couples the 2D CuO₂ bilayers at a
temperature T_(c)^(c), then, at a lower temperature designated as
T_(c)^(ab), the bilayers undergo a KT-type transition to a zero
dissipation state. Between these two transition temperatures, a
dissipation peak appears in the measurement of the zero-field resistive
transition which was performed using a "flux transformer" electrode
geometry. The observed peak is due to the competition between the
interlayer Josephson coupling and the thermally excited vortices.
However, this interpretation seems contradictory, as pointed out by
Horovitz,[11] because at T_(c)^(c) the layers are not yet
superconducting, and therefore, Josephson coupling cannot be manifested.
In fact, a layered superconductor has two types of topological
excitations:[12] (i) vortices, which are point singularities in each
plane, and (ii) fluxons, which are lines parallel to the layers across
which the relative phases of neighboring layers change by 2π. The
observed transition at T_(c)^(c) may be due to the transition of the
fluxons.[11] These fluxons result from the interplane Josephson
interaction with an energy minimized if the centers of vortex phase on
adjacent planes are aligned but raised by any vortex
misalignment,[13]⁻[15] as may arise because of a transport current.

In this paper we report the results of the vortex and fluxon motion in
Bi-2212 single crystals which have a high density of dislocations
cutting the CuO₂ superconducting plane into segments. It is expected
that the misalignment of the vortex pancakes in the present system is
strong because the transport current cannot flow in the same plane and
has to flow across and over the "step" along the c axis, leading to an
irregular distribution of the current in the sample. It was found that
the system exhibited an anomalously broad foot structure from 92.1 to 84
K in the zero-field resistive transition along the _ab_ plane,
ρ_(ab)(T); however, this foot structure disappeared when the measurement
was undertaken along the c axis, i.e., for ρ_(c)(T) measurements. The
more interesting feature of the foot structure is that it can be
separated into two components: a long resistance tail and a dissipation
peak. The significantly large difference between the temperatures of the
mean-field transition and the vortex-related transition is consistent
with the recent theory on the fluctuation of vortex lines in
Josephson-coupled layered superconductors,[16] and a KT scaling behavior
of resistivity is observed for the long resistance tail which suggests
that some features of the motion of the vortex lines in
Josephson-coupled layered supercon ductors is similar to that of 2D
vortices. The additional dissipation peak can be explained by Horovitz’s
model [11] where the fluxon transition plays a significant role.

## II Experimental

Our transport measurements were performed on two different types of
Bi-2212 single crystals prepared by a traveling solvent floating-zone
method using different growth conditions. [17] Here the nominal
composition of the as-grown specimens was Bi2Sr1.9CaCu2Ox. One
crystal-growth condition resulted in "defect single crystals" which were
extracted from an as-grown rod prepared using a microgrowth fluctuation
condition. The micrograph fluctuation at the front of the growing
crystals, which were caused by an uneven mechanical movement, resulted
in a high density of dislocations or anti-phase boundaries in the _ab_
planes in the as-grown crystals. [18, 19] High-resolution transmission
electron microscope (HRTEM) images revealed that these dislocations cut
the CuO2 planes into segments along the a axis of the single crystals
(see schematic of such a structure in the inset of Fig. 1). The detailed
HRTEM results for these crystals will be reported elsewhere. A second
crystal-growth condition resulted in "perfect single crystals" which
were extracted from an as-grown rod prepared using a stable growth
condition. In this case, no growth dislocations which cut the CuO2
planes into segments along the a axis were found by HRTEM. The resistive
measurements were made using an ac four-terminal technique. The current
and voltage contacts are evaporated silver strips on the surface of the
crystals, which have contact resistances less than 1 O.

## III Results and Discussion

The resistive transition of a defect single-crystal sample with the
dimensions of 5.1 x 1.2 x 0.1 mm3 (denoted as sample _A_) is shown in
Fig. 1. The resistivity r_(b) was measured with all contacts on the same
surface. For the r_(c) measurement, one of the current contacts and one
of the voltage contacts were placed on the top surface with the others
on the bottom surface. As already pointed out, for the layered
compounds, [2] the current distribution is inhomogeneous along the c
axis in the sample. The resistivity shown here is merely a nominal one,
denoted as r_(b) for the _ab_-plane resistivity, and r_(c) for the
_c_-axis resistivity. It should be noted that r_(b) has a similar
temperature-dependent behavior to that of r_(c), i.e., a semiconductive
behavior before the superconducting transition. For comparison, the
equivalent results of a dislocation-free sample of Bi-2212 single
crystal (denoted as sample _B_), selected from another rod is shown in
Fig. 1(b). This result exhibits a typical metallic behavior along the
_ab_ plane above the superconducting transition, in contrast to those
samples containing dislocations. Moreover, even though the value of
r_(b) for sample A is approximately 300 times less than that of r_(c),
it is still two orders of magnitude greater than that for the
dislocation-free sample. Considering the particular structure of sample
A, it is assumed that the r_(b) measurement is in essence a mixture of
the resistivity along the _ab_ plane and that along the c axis. This is
because the CuO2 planes are cut into a series of segments by the
dislocations, and beside each of the dislocation lines, the CuO2 planes
shift along the c direction by about half a unit cell. Therefore, the
transport current path must include both the in-plane and the
out-of-plane components, as shown in the inset of Fig. 1.

For sample A, both r_(c) and r_(b) exhibit a superconducting onset
transition at about 93.5 K. However, the transition along the c axis is
very sharp which shows a zero-resistance temperature at 91.4 K, whereas
the transition along the _ab_ plane exhibits a broad foot structure
which extends to approximately 84.0 K, indicating that dissipation along
the c axis and along the _ab_ plane is quite different. This different
dissipation behavior is similar to that observed in the _I-V_
characteristic measurements [10] where the zero-resistance temperature
along the c axis, T_(c)^(c), is two degrees higher than that along the
_ab_ plane, T_(c)^(ab); and between these two transition temperatures, a
dissipation peak appears in the measurement of the zero-field resistive
transition performed using a "flux transformer" electrode geometry. In
the present system, there are two points worth noting: (i) the
difference between the two transitions is 7.4 K, which is much larger
than that observed by Wan _et al._, [10] and (ii) besides a long
resistance tail, a dissipation peak appears.

Figure 2 shows the _ab_-plane resistive transition of sam

Figure 1: (a) Resistive transition of a defect Bi2Sr2CaCu2Ox+y single
crystal containing a high density of dislocations (sample _A_). Inset: a
schematic of the structure of a defect single crystal and a current
path. (b) Resistive transition of a dislocation-free Bi2Sr2CaCu2Ox+y
single crystal (sample _B_).

ple A for a range of transport currents and magnetic fields. With
increasing transport current or magnetic field, the superconducting
transition shifts towards lower temperatures. As both the transport
current and magnetic field are not too large, the main features of the
long resistivity tails for the transitions in the different magnetic
fields and transport currents are similar. However, the dissipation peak
disappears gradually with increasing transport current or magnetic
field.

It should be pointed out that the anomalous behavior reported above is
common to those defect single-crystal samples containing dislocations.
Figure 3 shows the results of another sample with the dimensions of
5.1 × 1.1 × 0.07 mm³ (denoted as sample _C_). The general features of
the resistive transition are similar to those of sample A.

In our opinion, the origin of the long tail in the ab-plane resistive
transition is very similar to that of vortex-pair excitations in the
quasi-two-dimensional superconducting layers in Bi-2212. As is well
known, the superconducting layers in Bi-2212 are spaced d = 15 A apart
along the c axis [20] which is larger than the coherence length in the c
direction, ξ_(c), thus the interlayer coupling can be treated as a
perturbation. In this case, the 2D fluctuation near the transition would
be very strong, and the planes would show behavior analogous to the
thermal fluctuations found in the thin films of conventional
superconductors, where the dissipation is associated with the motion of
thermally exited pairs of vortices with opposite circulation. Writing
the vortex-pair interaction energy as U(r) = (ϕ₀²d/16π²λ²)ln (r/ξ_(ab)),
where λ is the London penetration depth, ϕ₀ is the flux quantum, d is a
layer thickness, ξ_(ab) is the ab-plane Ginzburg-Landau coherence
length, and r is the distance between the vortex-pair, then a critical
temperature T_(K), which is associated with the KT transition, is given
by

T_(K) = ϕ₀²d/32π²λ²(T_(K)) .
(1)

At a temperature above T_(K) but below the mean-field transition
temperature T_(c0) thermally induced free vortices are present and
dissipation resulting from thermally activated dissociation of
vortex-antivortex pairs can be written as [21]

ρ/ρ_(N) = a exp [  − 2(bt_(c0)/t)^(1/2)] ,
(2)

where t_(c0) = (T_(c0)/T_(K) − 1), t = (T/T_(K) − 1), and a and b are
nonuniversal constants.

In order to make a semiquantitative comparison of our experimental data
with Eq. (2), we need to know the mean-field transition temperature
T_(c0). According to the Aslamosov-Larkin formula for the fluctuation
conductivity in 2D, [22, 23]ρ⁻¹ − ρ_(N)⁻¹ = (e²/16ℏd)(T_(c0) − T)⁻¹, and

Figure 3: **Resistive transition of sample C along the ab plane for
different transport currents. Inset: Enlarged curves of the foot
structure in the resistive transition.

Figure 2: **Resistive transition of sample A along the ab-plane
direction for (a) different test currents; and (b) different magnetic
fields. Inset: Enlarged curves of the foot structure in the resistive
transition.**

by fitting the data above T_(c0) it is estimated that T_(c0) = 92.8 K.
In this fitting, the normal-state resistivity ρ_(N) is extrapolated from
the data measured above 115 K.

Figure 4 shows the comparison of the experimental data with Eq. (2), in
which ln (ρ_(ab)/ρ_(N)) is plotted as a function of the reduced
temperature t = (T/T_(K) − 1) using the data obtained at zero field.
Good agreement between the theoretical and experimental results is
obtained except for the region where the dissipation peak appears. As a
first step, we ignore this discrepancy and will discuss its origin in
later paragraphs. The KT transition temperature is fitted as T_(K) =
83.7 K or t_(c0) = 0.11, while a and b are fitted as 0.17 and 1.41,
respectively. The value of b obtained here is very close to the 1.34 as
reported by Martin _et al._9 for the perfect Bi-2212 single-crystal
sample, but the value of a obtained here is much smaller than the 3.78
reported by them. We explain this discrepancy as follows: the ρ_(ab)
measured in the present sample is, in fact, a mixture of the resistivity
along the _ab_ plane and along the c axis. Above the mean-field critical
temperature T_(c0), resistivity along the c direction provides a
significant contribution to ρ_(ab), which leads to a larger value of
ρ_(N) than that for a perfect single-crystal sample. However, at
temperature below T_(c0), ρ_(ab) mainly results from the motion of
thermally activated vortex pairs along the CuO₂ planes, for both perfect
and dislocation-contained Bi-2212 single crystals. Another point we
should note is that the KT transition has been observed in Bi-2212
single crystals by Martin _et al._,9 but the normalized KT transition
temperature t_(K) = T_(K)/T_(c0) = 0.90 in the present
dislocation-contained crystals is much lower than the 0.98 found for the
dislocation-free single crystals. This may be explained by the existence
of some "weak" superconducting regions in the CuO₂ layers caused by
dislocations. In the weak superconducting regions, the dynamics of the
vortices is quite different from that within the perfect superconducting
regions,24 current-induced unbinding of the vortex-antivortex pairs is
prone to be excited when compared to the situation in perfect
superconducting layers. As a result, the KT transition temperature in
this system is lowered. Another possible reason is the modification of
the interaction between the vortices in different superconducting
layers. As is well known, the Bi-2212 compound is not a perfect 2D
system, the interlayer interaction must be taken into account. As
calculated by Horovitz,25 and by Scheidl and Hackenbroich,26 the
vortices in a given layer interact with the "bath" of thermally
activated vortex-antivortex pairs in other layers which modifies the KT
transition by shifting the transition temperature from T_(K) to
T_(k)^(′), with T_(K)^(′) < T_(k) < T_(c0). If the transport current
path crosses through the adjacent superconducting layers, as shown in
the inset of Fig. 1 for the dislocation-contained crystals, the density
of the vortex-antivortex pairs in the bath will be increased by the
current-induced excitation, and consequently the tridimensional
screening effect of the logarithmic interaction is enhanced. The KT
transition temperature may therefore be decreased further. In
dislocation-free Bi-2212 crystals, the current decays exponentially with
distance along c axis, the current-induced pairs in the bath is
negligible. Strictly speaking, the KT transition observed here is
different from that in conventional 2D systems. In addition, our result
is close to that obtained from the recent calculation of Bulaevskii,
Ledvij, and Kogan.16 As considered in their paper, the HTSC Bi-2212 is
not a perfect 2D system, interlayer Josephson coupling does exist in
this layered system and for the case of weak Josephson coupling,27 the
energy of a vortex-pair increases linearly with the distance between the
vortex pair, while the entropy of a 2D vortex changes logarithmically.
Under these circumstances, thermally induced spontaneous creation of
free 2D vortices (in the low concentration limit) is virtually
impossible. However, after taking into account the contribution of
thermal distortions of the vortex line to the free energy, Bulaevskii,
Ledvij, and Kogan16 found that for the Bi- and Tl-based layered HTSC
systems, a superconducting transition associated with the vortex lines
exists. Above this transition, the thermally induced vortex and
antivortex lines gives rise to dissipative properties similar to those
of a 2D superconductor above T_(K). At this temperature, the resistivity
and lower critical field become zero. This transition temperature lies
noticeably below the mean-field transition. Our system has a more
dramatic vortex misalignment induced by the dislocations, therefore, the
thermal distortion of the vortices would be stronger. Thus, T_(K) is
much lower than T_(c0) in our system, which is consistent with the
Bulaevskii model. Based on the results and analyses detailed above we
believe that the origin of the long resistance tail observed in our
experiments is the spontaneous creation of vortices or vortex lines in
Josephson-coupled layered superconductors. Good agreement of the
experimental data with the KT-type scaling behavior of resistivity
suggests that some features of the motion of the vortex lines in
Josephson-coupled layered superconductors are similar to those of 2D
vortices.

Another possible explanation for the observed long resistance tail in
the present experiment is thermally activated phase slippage28 which was
successfully used to explain the unusual broadening of the resistivity
versus temperature curves in a magnetic field,29 and the broad foot
structure caused by the transition of the grain

Figure 4: Plot of ln (ρ_(ab)/ρ_(N)) vs (T/T_(K) − 1)^(−1/2) obtained
from the resistive transition data for H = 0.

boundary Josephson junction.[30] According to this model, the
temperature dependence of the resistivity is of the form
ρ ∼ [I₀[C(1 − T/T_(c))^(n)]]⁻² where I₀ is the modified Bessel function,
C is a constant, and n = 1 or 2. However, our data do not fit this
theory as it has a different temperature dependence for the resistivity.

As shown in the insets of Fig. 2, the foot of the ρ_(ab)-T curve can be
regarded as a superposition of two parts: a long resistance tail which
can be described by Eq. (2), and a dissipation peak. In the cases of low
transport currents and low magnetic fields, the vortex motion will
basically not be modified, and we can use Eq. (2) to separate the
background of the long resistance tail from the dissipation peak. The
net result of this is the peak ρ_(p), shown in Fig. 5. It is evident
that the peak is current and field dependent. With increasing transport
current and/or magnetic field the peak becomes smaller, and shifts
slowly towards lower temperature, but the width of the peak appears to
be unchanged with a value of approximately 3 K. Generally, the features
of the peak are similar to those observed by Wan _et al.[10]_ in the
measurement of the zero-field resistive transition which was performed
using a "flux transformer" electrode geometry, but this phenomenon is
observed in ab-plane resistive transition measurements. We believe the
origin of the present dissipation peak is similar to that for the case
of the flux transformer electrode geometry, and can be explained by the
use of the fluxon transition concept proposed by Horovitz.[11] Following
his model, the current along the c direction is expressed as[11]

I^(c) ∼ J(L/ξ_(ab))exp [(E_(c)/2τ)(1 − 2T/τ)/(T/τ − 1/8)] ,

where J is the Josephson coupling between layers, L² is the area of the
layer, E_(c) is the core energy, τ = ϕ₀²d/4π²λ². As analyzed in Ref. 11,
I^(c) has a sharp crossover at T ≈ τ/2, reflecting the fluxon transition
which corresponds to the first transition step of ρ_(ab) [see also Fig.
1(a)]. Below this temperature, the resistivity obtained from
measurements involving the flux transformer electrode geometry and our
experimental methods involves the current I^(c) as well as the
dissipation of vortices with density ξ_(v)⁻² (where
ξ_(v) = ξ_(ab)exp{E_(c)/(2T − τ/4) is the mean distance between
vortices), and can be expressed, in the present case, as

ρ_(p) ∼ (1/ξ_(ab))exp [(−E_(c)/2τ)/(T/τ − 1/8)] .

Since ξ_(ab) ∼ (1 − T/T_(c0))^(−1/2), ρ_(p) will vanish both at T_(c0)
and at T = τ/8, producing a maximum in between, as observed in the
present experiment and those reported by Wan _et al.[10]_ The
suppression of the peak by a magnetic field is the result of a fluxon
transition which is indeed suppressed by H as analyzed in Ref. 12. This
analysis shows that the fluxon transition plays a significant role in
the occurrence of the dissipation peak in the resistive transition
measurements.

As analyzed above, the occurrence of the dissipation peak depends on the
fluxon transition in which an in-plane current controlled by the current
along the c direction, I^(c), interacts with the vortices in the plane.
In the measurement of ρ_(ab)(T), the current and voltage leads are
placed in the top surface layer of the crystal; if the CuO₂ planes are
perfect, as in the case of dislocation-free crystals, the current
flowing in the top layer is almost independent of I^(c), and thus no
dissipation peak will be observed. In the flux transformer electrode
geometry measurements, the current flowing in the bottom layer is
controlled by I^(c), and therefore, a dissipation peak can be seen even
in the crystals without dislocation, as reported in Ref. 10. In the
measurement of ρ_(c)(T), the transport current flows along the c axis of
the crystals. In this case, the influence of fluxon and 2D vortices is
not manifested. Hence the behavior is quite different from that of the
ab-plane measurements.

In summary, an anomalously broad foot structure is observed in the
zero-field resistive transition for the ab plane of Bi-2212 single
crystals which have a high density of dislocations. It is found that the
foot structure can be regarded as a superposition of two components: a
long resistance tail and a dissipation peak. The former obeys the KT
scaling behavior of resistivity, revealing that it originates from the
excitation of the vortices in Josephson-coupled layered superconductors;
the latter is related to the fluxon transition in this Josephson-coupled
layered superconductor.

###### Acknowledgements.

We gratefully acknowledge the financial support of the Australian
Research Council (Y. Zhao) and the University of New South Wales (G. D.
Gu).

## References

* [1] R. Kleiner, F. Steinmeyer, G. Kunkel, and P. Muller, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **68**, 2394 (1992). * [2] R. Busch, G. Ries, H. Werthner, G.
Kreiselmeyer, and G. Saemann-Ischenko, Phys. Rev. Lett. **69**, 522
(1992). * [3] H. Safar, E. Rodriguez, F. de le Cruz, P. L. Gammel, L. F.
Schneemeyer, and D. J. Bishop, Phys. Rev. B **46**, 1428 (1992). * [4]
D. A. Huse and S. N. Majumdar, Phys. Rev. Lett. **71**, 2473 (1993).

Figure 5: Variation of the dissipation peak ρ_(p), for different
magnetic fields and transport currents.

* [53] M. L. Horbach and W. van Saarloos, Phys. Rev. B **46**, 432
(1992). * [54] H. Safar, P. L. Gammel, D. J. Bishop, D. B. Mitzi, and A.
Kapitulnik, Phys. Rev. Lett. **68**, 2672 (1992). * [55] D. A. Brawner,
A. Schilling, H. R. Ott, R. J. Haug, K. Ploog, and K. von Klitzing,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **71**, 785 (1993). * [56] J. R. Clem, Phys. Rev. B
**43**, 7837 (1991). * [57] S. Martin, A. T. Fiory, R. M. Fleming, G. P.
Espinosa, and A. S. Cooper, Phys. Rev. Lett. **62**, 677 (1989). * [58]
Y. M. Wan, S. E. Hebboul, D. C. Harris, and J. C. Garland, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **71**, 157 (1993). * [59] B. Horovitz, Phys. Rev. Lett. **72**,
1569 (1994). * [60] B. Horovitz, Phys. Rev. B **47**, 5947 (1993). *
[61] P. Minnhagen and P. Olsson, Phys. Rev. Lett. **67**, 1039 (1991). *
[62] M. V. Feigel’man, V. B. Geshkenbein, and A. I. Larkin, Physica C
**167**, 177 (1990). * [63] J. M. Duan, Phys. Rev. Lett. **70**, 3991
(1993). * [64] L. N. Bulaevskii, M. Ledvij, and V. G. Kogan, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **68**, 3773 (1992). * [65] G. D. Gu, K. Takamuku, N. Koshizuka,
and S. Tanaka, J. Cryst. Growth **130**, 325 (1993). * [66] B. R.
Pamplin, _Crystal Growth_, 2nd ed. (Pergamon, Oxford, 1980). * [67] K.
K. Fung, R. L. Withers, Y. F. Yan, and Z. X. Zhao, J. Phys. Condens.
Matter **1**, 317 (1989). * [68] S. A. Sunshine _et al._, Phys. Rev. B
**38**, 893 (1988). * [69] B. I. Halperin and D. R. Nelson, J. Low Temp.
Phys. **36**, 599 (1979). * [70] A. T. Fiory, A. Hebard, and W. I.
Glaberson, Phys. Rev. B **28**, 5070 (1983). * [71] L. G. Aslamosov and
A. I. Larkin, Fiz. Tverd. Tela. **10**, 1104 (1968) [Sov. Phys. Solid
State **10**, 875 (1968)]. * [72] Y. Zhao, X. B. Zuge, J. M. Xu, and L.
Cao, Phys. Rev. B **49**, 6985 (1994). * [73] B. Horovitz, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **67**, 378 (1991); Phys. Rev. B **47**, 5955 (1992). * [74] S.
Scheidl and G. Hackenbroich, Europhys. Lett. **20**, 511 (1992); Phys.
Rev. B **43**, 3728 (1991). * [75] V. Cataudella and P. Minnhagen,
Physica C **166**, 442 (1990). * [76] V. Ambegaokar and B. I. Halperin,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **22**, 1364 (1969). * [77] M. Tinkham, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **61**, 1658 (1988). * [78] R. Gross, P. Chaudhari, D. Dimos, A.
Gupta, and G. Koren, Phys. Rev. Lett. **64**, 228 (1990).
