Magnetic penetration-depth measurements of a suppressed superfluid
density of superconducting Ca_(0.5)Na_(0.5)Fe₂As₂ single crystals by
proton irradiation

Jeehoon Kim,^(1, +) N. Haberkorn,¹ M. J. Graf,¹ I. Usov,¹ F. Ronning,¹
L. Civale,¹ E. Nazaretski,² G. F. Chen,³ W. Yu,³ J. D. Thompson,¹ and R.
Movshovich¹

¹Los Alamos National Laboratory, Los Alamos, New Mexico 87545 USA

²Brookhaven National Laboratory, Upton, New York 11973 USA

³Department of Physics, Renmin University of China, Beijing 100872,
China

21 June 2012; revised manuscript received 21 September 2012; published
10 October 2012

###### Abstract

We report on the dramatic effect of random point defects, produced by
proton irradiation, on the superfluid density ρ_(t) in superconducting
Ca_(0.5)Na_(0.5)Fe₂As₂ single crystals. The magnitude of the suppression
is inferred from measurements of the temperature-dependent magnetic
penetration depth λ(T) using magnetic force microscopy. Our findings
indicate that a radiation dose of 2 × 10¹⁶ cm⁻² produced by 3 MeV
protons results in a reduction of the superconducting critical
temperature T_(c) by approximately 10

pacs: DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.86.144509 PACS number(s): 74.25.N−,
74.25.fc, 74.25.Uv, 74.62.Dh + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL REVIEW B
**86**, 144509 (2012)

## I Introduction

Proximity of the superconducting and magnetic states in iron-based
superconductors has stimulated extensive studies of the gap nature,[1,
2, 3] order-parameter symmetry,[4, 5, 6] and the pairing mechanisms in
these materials.[7] The response of the superconducting condensate to
impurities is sensitive to the symmetry of the superconducting state,
and their influence has been widely investigated to gain better
understanding of the nature of the order parameter in both low- and
high-temperature unconventional superconductors.[8, 9, 10, 11, 12]

The Abrikosov-Gorkov (AG) theory[13] explains the effects of impurities
in the low-T_(c) superconductors, where a large superconducting
coherence length ξ effectively averages the suppression of order
parameter at the impurity sites over many impurities, leading to a
uniformly suppressed order parameter. However, the AG theory breaks down
when applied to the effect of disorder on superconducting properties in
the cuprates superconductors,[10] where ξ is short and comparable to the
average spacing between disorder centers. The order parameter is
therefore suppressed locally at the impurity site and has a chance to
recover between impurities. The influence of disorder on the superfluid
density ρ_(s) in cuprates is well described by the so called "Swiss
cheese" model, which considers spatial dependence of the order parameter
and its strong suppression near defects.[14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20] In
iron-based systems, where superconductivity exhibits both s-wave
characteristics and a small coherence length, the situation is between
the low-temperature and high-temperature superconductors. Consequently,
these systems pose an intriguing question of how the effect of disorder
on T_(c) and the superfluid density in these compounds compares to that
in conventional BCS superconductors and cuprates.[12]

Recently, two irradiation experiments on Co-doped BaFe₂As₂ (Co-122) were
performed to study the influence of disorder.[11, 12] The
temperature-dependent penetration depth measurements suggested an s^(±)
state, with strong nonmagnetic scattering in the unitary limit,[11]
whereas transport measurements showed an s⁺⁺ state with weak scattering
in the Born limit.[12] Both experiments showed a relatively small
suppression of T_(c) caused by nonmagnetic impurities induced by
irradiation; these findings are consistent with an s⁺⁺ state, since
superconductivity with a sign-changing order parameter is quite
sensitive to nonmagnetic impurities.[21, 22, 23, 24, 25] Reports in
several iron-arsenide systems by different experimental techniques are
consistent with theoretical predictions of s wave, potentially nodal s
wave, or sign-reversing s wave.[5, 7]

In this work we investigate the influence of random point defects
introduced by proton irradiation on λ(T) in Ca_(0.5)Na_(0.5)Fe₂As₂
(CNFA) single crystals. We use the magnetic force microscopy (MFM)
technique to determine absolute values of λ(T).[24, 25, 26, 27, 28] The
CNFA single crystals, showing homogeneity, have been grown with a
self-flux technique. Details of the sample preparation and
characterization can be found elsewhere.[29]

## II Experiment

The 3-MeV protons are known to produce between one and a few tens of
atomic displacements,[30] creating random point defects as well as
nanoclusters with typical dimensions of few nanometers. The CNFA sample
was irradiated with the total proton dose of 2 × 10¹⁶ cm⁻², which
corresponds to an average distance (d) between defects of 2.8 nm.[31]
The sample was cleaved, and its thickness measured to be around 28 μm,
which is smaller than the penetration range of 40 μm for the 3-MeV
proton beam. Electrical resistivity in both unirradiated and irradiated
samples were measured using a standard four-probe technique. The sample
was mounted in a rotatable probe and measurements were performed in
magnetic fields varying between 0 and 9 T. MFM measurements described
here were performed in a home-built low-temperature MFM apparatus.[32]
Three samples, CNFA, irradiated CNFA (ICNFA), and a Nb reference film
were loaded and investigated in a comparative experiment within a single
cool-down. The magnetic stray field calibration was performed by imaging
vortices in a Nb reference as a function of applied magnetic field.[24]
Measurements of l were performed using the Meissner response
technique.[24, 25, 26] The Meissner response curves were first measured
as a function of the tip-sample separation in the Nb reference with
known _l_(_T_). Subsequently, the cantilever was moved to a sample of
interest and the Meissner response curves were acquired. Direct
comparison of measured curves yields the absolute value of l in a sample
under investigation. Details of experimental technique are described
elsewhere.[24, 25, 26]

The reference Nb thin film (_T_c 8.8 K) has a thickness of 300 nm and
was grown by electron beam deposition. The _T_c of CNFA from transport
measurements is 19.4 K and that of ICNFA is 17.8 K. The width of the
superconducting transition did not change after irradiation. No upturn
in resistivity was observed at low temperatures, indicating that
irradiation by protons results in the formation of nonmagnetic
point-like scattering centers.[33] The MFM measurements were performed
using a high-resolution Nanosensors cantilever[34] that was polarized
along the tip axis in a 3 T magnetic field. Both Nb and CNFA samples
were zero-field cooled for Meissner experiments; a magnetic field of a
few Oe was applied above _T_c, followed by cooling for vortex imaging
experiments.

## III Results

### H_d_(_T_) measurements

Figure 1 shows the upper critical field _H_c2(_T_) with **H** ∥_c_ and
**H** ⊥_c_ (within the _ab_ plane) for CNFA and ICNFA. _H_c2(_T_) is
linear in both samples and for both directions, with average slopes of
$\left. \beta^{ab} = - \frac{\partial H_{c2}^{ab}}{\partial T} \right|_{T_{c}} = 4\text{ T}/\text{K}$
and
$\left. \beta^{c} = - \frac{\partial H_{c2}^{ab}}{\partial T} \right|_{T_{c}} = 2.2\text{ T}/\text{K}$
for CNFA and
$\left. \beta^{ab} = - \frac{\partial H_{c2}^{ab}}{\partial T} \right|_{T_{c}} = 3.8\text{ T}/\text{K}$
and
$\left. \beta^{c} = - \frac{\partial H_{c2}^{ab}}{\partial T} \right|_{T_{c}} = 2.3\text{ T}/\text{K}$
for ICNFA. A modest superconducting anisotropy parameter
$\gamma = \frac{\beta^{ab}}{\beta^{c}} = 1.85$-1.65 for both CNFA and
ICNFA samples points toward a three-dimensional behavior. The
superconducting coherence length x can be expressed in the
Ginzburg-Landau region as
$\xi_{\text{GL}}(T) \approx \xi_{0}/\sqrt{1 - T/T_{c}}$. In the case of
a one-band model or two weakly coupled bands with similar Fermi surface
properties and pairing interactions, the zero-temperature in-plane
coherence length ξ₀^(ab) and out-of-plane coherence length ξ₀^(c) are
given by the slope of the upper critical field[29, 35]:
(ξ₀^(ab))² ≈ Φ₀/2πT_(c)β^(c) and ξ₀^(c)ξ₀^(ab) ≈ Φ₀/2πT_(c)β^(ab). We
obtain the zero-temperature Ginzburg-Landau values of
ξ_(CNFA)^(ab)(0) ≈ 2.8 nm and ξ_(CNFA)^(ab)(0) ≈ 2.8 nm, which are
similar in magnitude to the short-coherence-length cuprate and PuCoGa₅
superconductors. Within our measurement uncertainty no appreciable
change of the coherence length took place after irradiation, although
_T_c is suppressed by 10

### _l_(_T_) measurements

Prior to measurements of the absolute values of _l_(_T_), vortex images
were obtained under the same experimental conditions for all samples.
These measurements yield information about homogeneity of CNFA and ICNFA
samples on a submicron scale ( 100 nm). The well-formed single vortices
in Nb and CNFA suggest the homogeneity of the sample; however, the
irregular shape of single vortex in ICNFA (elongated vortex in the
diagonal direction of the image) suggests the presence of inhomogeneity
in the superfluid density on a submicron scale, which may be related to
impurities introduced from irradiation. We employed the following
imaging procedure: First, a single vortex in the Nb sample was obtained
at 4 K after the stray field calibration of the MFM system.[24] Second,
the MFM tip was moved on to CNFA and a single vortex image obtained.
Third, a single vortex image was obtained after the tip was moved on to
ICNFA as shown in Figs. 2(a), 2(b), and 2(c). The line profile for each
of the single vortices is shown in Fig. 2(d). The intensity of the
vortex center in different samples correlates with the magnitude of l,
since all images were taken under the same conditions and with the same
tip. Lower intensity corresponds to a larger l; therefore, l in ICNFA is
much larger than that in the Nb reference. In addition, the magnitude of
l among the superconducting samples can be inferred from the relative
size of a single vortex: The larger the size, the larger is l.
Therefore, l in ICNFA, showing the largest vortex size, is the biggest
among them.

To extract absolute values of l in ICNFA we performed the Meissner
response measurements as described above. The Meissner curves as a
function of the tip-sample separation were obtained in all three
samples: Nb, CNFA, and ICNFA (see Fig. 3). The decay rate of the
frequency shift _df_ as a function of the tip-sample separation z
provides the relative magnitude of l, i.e., the higher the rate d(δf)/dz
the larger the l. In bulk and thick films, the Meissner response force
obeys a universal power-law dependence with tip-to-sample distance.[27,
28] The force is given by F_(Meissner) = A × f(λ + z), where z is the
tip-to-sample distance, A is a prefactor containing information about
the geometry of the magnetic tip, and _f_(_z_)  1/_z_3. By shifting the
_f_CNFA(_z_) data with respect to distance in order to

Figure 1: (Color online) Temperature-dependent H_c2 along the c axis and
within the _ab_ plane in unirradiated Ca0.5Na0.5Fe2.As2 (black
triangles), taken from Ref. [24], and proton-irradiated
Ca0.5Na0.5Fe2.As2 (red circles).

overlay it with the f^(Nb)(z) curve, one can obtain the absolute values
of $\lambda_{\rm ICNFA}(T)=\lambda_{\rm Nb}(T)+\Delta\lambda(T)$, where
Δλ(T) is the magnitude of the shift. The shift Δλ between the Nb and
ICNFA data equals 320 nm, resulting in
$\lambda_{\rm ICNFA}(0)=\lambda_{\rm Nb}(0)+\Delta\lambda(0)=110\;{\rm nm}+320\;{ \rm nm}=430\;{\rm nm}$.

Using the same procedure we also obtained
$\lambda_{\rm CNFA}(0)=\lambda_{\rm Nb}(0)+\Delta\lambda(0)=110\;{\rm nm}+150\;{ \rm nm}=260\;{\rm nm}$.
Our experimental error is around 10

The temperature-dependent Meissner response curves measured in both CNFA
and ICNFA samples are shown in Figs. 4(a) and 4(b). The gradual
variation of the Meissner curves as a function of temperature indicates
a systematic change of λ(T). The insets in Figs. 4(a) and 4(b) show the

Figure 4: (Color online) Temperature-dependent Meissner curves for (a)
the unirradiated Ca_(0.5)Na_(0.5)Fe₂As₂ and (b) the irradiated
Ca_(0.5)Na_(0.5)Fe₂As₂ samples. Insets in (a) and (b) show overlaid
temperature-dependent Meissner curves at 4 K, validating our procedure
for extracting λ(T). (c) Temperature-dependent λ(T) in both unirradiated
and irradiated Ca_(0.5)Na_(0.5)Fe₂As₂ samples determined from (a) and
(b). (d) λ(T) from (c) normalized by the T = 0 value as a function of
the normalized temperature.

Figure 3: (Color online) Meissner response curves obtained from (a) the
Nb reference (blue diamonds), (b) the unirradiated
Ca_(0.5)Na_(0.5)Fe₂As₂ (green diamonds), and (c) the irradiated
Ca_(0.5)Na_(0.5)Fe₂As₂ (red diamonds) at 4 K. The different slopes of
the Meissner curves obtained from each sample indicate a systematic
change of λ. The inset: The Meissner curves for the unirradiated and
irradiated samples are shifted along the horizontal axis to overlay the
Meissner curve for the reference Nb sample. The difference of the
penetration depths Δλ can be obtained from the values of the shift.

Figure 2: (Color online) Single vortex images in (a) the Nb reference,
(b) the unirradiated Ca_(0.5)Na_(0.5)Fe₂As₂, and (c) the irradiated
Ca_(0.5)Na_(0.5)Fe₂As₂. (d) Comparison of single vortex profiles
obtained from (a), (b), and (c). All images were obtained under the same
experimental conditions in a single cool-down with the tip lift height
of 300 nm at 4 K. The color scale bar refers to (a)–(c).

Meissner curves obtained at different temperatures but shifted to lie on
top of the Meissner curve taken at T = 4 K; the curves overlay each
other very well. The shift value for a given T to T = 4 K along the
horizontal axis allows one to calculate λ(T) at T. The resulting λ(T)
and normalized λ(T)/λ(0) in both samples are shown in Figs. 4(c) and
4(d), respectively. Results indicate that λ(T) increases after proton
irradiation; however, the dependence of λ(T)/λ(0) on the normalized
temperature T/T_(c) is the same for both samples within our experimental
uncertainty. The penetration depth exhibits the typical power-law
behavior Δλ(T)/λ(0) ∼ T^(n) with n ≈ 2 reported previously for doped
iron-arsenide superconductors.[3]

## IV Discussion

The radiation dose of 2 × 10¹⁶ cm⁻² produced by 3 MeV protons in a
Ca_(0.5)Na_(0.5)Fe₂As₂ sample causes the suppression of the superfluid
density ρ_(s)(0) ≈ 1/λ²(0) by about 60

It is worth noting that the T dependence of λ(T) remains the same after
irradiation as shown in Fig. 4(d), while it changes in cuprates.[42, 43,
44] This discrepancy may result from the nature of the multiband s-wave
pairing as well as the highly disordered nature of CNFA on the Ca/Na
sites, which lie above and below the iron layer. The fact that the
temperature behavior of λ(T) is robust after irradiation may be ascribed
to large intraband scattering with s^(±) pairing and that the system
itself is already in the "dirty" limit prior to irradiation, consistent
with its short coherence length and power-law dependence of λ(T).
Additional disorder (mostly in the iron layer) by proton irradiation,
therefore, has little impact on the temperature behavior of λ(T), while
added interband scattering is detrimental to (increases) the absolute
magnitude of λ(0).

The pair-breaking effect due to nonmagnetic scattering in the AG theory
can be quantitatively analyzed using the normalized scattering rate in
conjunction with λ given by g^(±) = ℏΔρ₀/(2πk_(B)T_(c0)μa₀^(⊥)), where
Δρ₀ is the residual resistivity change induced by irradiation,
Δρ₀ = ρ₀^(irr) − ρ₀^(unirr), T_(c0) is the critical temperature before
irradiation, and λ₀ is the penetration depth of the unirradiated
sample.[12] The parameters g^(±) and T_(c0) are expressed as
ln (T_(c0)/T_(c)) = ψ[1/2 + g^(±)T_(c0)/(2T_(c))] − ψ(1/2), where ψ(x)
is the digamma function, based on the s^(±) scenario.[45] This
pair-breaking result for T_(c) is similar to that for conventional s
wave with magnetic impurities or d wave with nonmagnetic impurities.
Here, the critical scattering-rate parameter, where superconductivity
vanishes, is g = g^(±) ≈ 0.28 in the s^(±) pairing state. The
extrapolated critical scattering parameter, obtained using Δρ₀ = 30 μΩ
cm and λ=260 nm, is g_(exp)^(±) ≈ 3.7. This value is much larger than
that expected in the s^(±) scenario, quantifying the breakdown of the AG
theory in irradiated iron-arsenide superconductors, where the
approximation of the uniformly impurity-averaged Green’s function is not
valid. Similar results were reported in Ba(Fe_(1 − x)Co_(x))₂As₂
irradiated by protons[11] and illustrate the generality of the Swiss
cheese model for pair-breaking in this large class of high-temperature
superconductors.

## V Conclusion

We reported the influence of random point disorder produced by proton
irradiation on the superfluid density in Ca_(0.5)Na_(0.5)Fe₂As₂. It
leads to a dramatic change of λ(0) after irradiation, in contrast to the
small variation of T_(c) and predictions by the AG theory. Both ξ(T) and
λ(T) show similar temperature behavior before and after irradiation.

Figure 5: (Color online) Uemura plot of the superfluid density in
disordered short-coherence-length superconductors. T_(c0) and ρ_(s0) are
values obtained from a pristine crystal; T_(c) and ρ_(s) are those
measured after irradiation. The solid circle represents the
proton-irradiated CNFA obtained in this work. For comparison, we plot
results of the one-band AG and BdG (Swiss cheese) calculations[37] for
d-wave pairing, two-band AG s^(±)-wave calculations,[22] and
experimental results for self-irradiated PuCoGa₈[38] and
helium-irradiated YBCO samples.[39, 40]

This behavior may be understood within the Swiss cheese model, the
pair-breaking nature of s^(±) interband superconductivity, and a short
coherence length, which considers the spatial dependence of the order
parameter and its strong suppression near defects at the atomic scale.
Finally, the extracted normalized scattering rate, in conjunction with
the absolute value of λ(T), is much larger than the critical scattering
rate for the s^(±) pairing, confirming the break-down of the AG theory
in these disordered superconductors. Further detailed multiband BdG
model calculations combined with systematic doping and irradiation
studies may shed light on the suppression of superconductivity in this
large class of iron-based superconductors.

###### Acknowledgements.

Work at LANL (all measurements, irradiations, data analysis, manuscript
preparation) was supported by the U.S. Department of Energy, Basic
Energy Sciences, Division of Materials Sciences and Engineering. Work at
Brookhaven (manuscript preparation) was supported by the U.S. Department
of Energy under Contract No. DE-AC02-9SCH1086. Work by G.F.C. and W.Y.
(fabrication of samples) was supported by the NSFC under Grants No.
10974254 and No. 11074304, and by the National Basic Research Program of
China under Grants No. 2010CB923000 and No. 2011CBA00100. N.H. is a
member of CONICET (Argentina).

## References

* [1] K. Hashimoto, T. Shibauchi, S. Kasahara, K. Ikada, S. Tonegawa, T.
Kato, R. Okazaki, C. J. van der Beek, M. Konczykowski, H. Takeya, K.
Hirata, T. Terashima, and Y. Matsuda, Phys. Rev. Lett. **102**, 207001
(2009). * [2] K. Ishida, Y. Nakai, and H. Hosono, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn.
**78**, 062001 (2009). * [3] C. Martin, R. T. Gordon, M. A. Tanatar, H.
Kim, N. Ni, S. L. Bud’ko, P. C. Canfield, H. Luo, H. H. Wen, Z. Wang, A.
B. Vorontsov, V. G. Kogan, and R. Prozorov, Phys. Rev. B **80**,
020501(R) (2009). * [4] M. A. Tanatar, J.-Ph. Reid, H. Shakeripour, X.
G. Luo, N. Doiron-Leyraud, N. Ni, S. L. Bud’ko, P. C. Canfield, R.
Prozorov, and Louis Taillefer, Phys. Rev. Lett. **104**, 067002
(2010). * [5] Kazuhiko Kuroki, Seiichiro Onari, Ryotaro Arita, Hidetomo
Usui, Yukio Tanaka, Hiroshi Kontani, and Hideo Aoki, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**101**, 087004 (2008); **102**, 109902(E) (2009). * [6] K. Nakayama, T.
Sato, P. Richard, Y.-M. Xu, Y. Sekiba, S. Souma, G. F. Chen, J. L. Luo,
N. L. Wang, H. Ding, and T. Takahashi, Europhys. Lett. **85**, 67002
(2009). * [7] I. I. Mazin, D. J. Singh, M. D. Johannes, and M. H. Du,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **101**, 057003 (2008). * [8] P. W. Anderson, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **3**, 325 (1959); T. Tsuneto, Prog. Theor. Phys. **28**, 857
(1962); D. Markowitz and L. P. Kadanoff, Phys. Rev. **181**, 563
(1963). * [9] C. J. Pethick and D. Pines, Phys. Rev. Lett. **57**, 118
(1986); S. Schmitt-Rink, K. Miyake, and C. M. Varma, _ibid._**57**, 2575
(1986); P. J. Hirschfeld, P. Wolfle, and D. Einzel, Phys. Rev. B **37**,
83 (1988). * [10] James Annett, Nigel Goldenfeld, and S. R. Renn, Phys.
Rev. B **43**, 2778 (1991). * [11] H. Kim, R. T. Gordon, M. A. Tanatar,
J. Hua, U. Welp, W. K. Kwok, N. Ni, S. L. Bud’ko, P. C. Canfield, A. B.
Vorontsov, and R. Prozorov, Phys. Rev. B **82**, 060518(R) (2010). *
[12] Y. Nakajima, T. Taen, Y. Tsuchiya, T. Tamegai, H. Kitamura, and T.
Murakami, Phys. Rev. B **82**, 220504 (2010). * [13] A. A. Abrikosov and
L. P. Gor’kov, Zh. Eksp. Teor. Fiz. **39**, 1781 (1960) [Sov. Phys. JETP
**12**, 1243 (1961)]. * [14] J. M. Byers, M. E. Flatte, and D. J.
Scalapino, Phys. Rev. Lett. **71**, 3363 (1993). * [15] A. V. Balatsky,
M. I. Salkola, and A. Rosengren, Phys. Rev. B **51**, 15547 (1995). *
[16] M. E. Flatte and J. M. Byers, Phys. Rev. Lett. **78**, 3761
(1997). * [17] M. I. Salkola, A. V. Balatsky, and J. R. Schrieffer,
Phys. Rev. B **55**, 12648 (1997). * [18] M. H. Hettler and P. J.
Hirschfeld, Phys. Rev. B **59**, 9606 (1999). * [19] Jian-Xin Zhu, T. K.
Lee, C. S. Ting, and C.-R. Hu, Phys. Rev. B **61**, 8667 (2000). * [20]
A. V. Balatsky, I. Vekhter, and Jian-Xin Zhu, Rev. Mod. Phys. **78**,
373 (2006). * [21] Y. Bang, Europhys. Lett. **86**, 47001 (2009). * [22]
A. B. Vorontsov, M. G. Vavilov, and A. V. Chubukov, Phys. Rev. B **79**,
140507 (2009). * [23] R. T. Gordon, H. Kim, M. A. Tanatar, R. Prozorov,
and V. G. Kogan, Phys. Rev. B **81**, 180501(R) (2010). * [24] J. Kim,
F. Ronning, N. Haberkorn, L. Civale, E. Nazaretski, N. Ni, R. J. Cava,
J. D. Thompson, and R. Movshovich, Phys. Rev. B **85**, 180504(R)
(2012). * [25] J. Kim, L. Civale, E. Nazaretski, N. Haberkorn, F.
Ronning, A. S. Sefat, T. Tajima, B. H. Moeckly, J. D. Thompson, and R.
Movshovich, Supercond. Sci. Technol. **25**, 112001 (2012). * [26] J.
Kim, N. Haberkorn, S.-Z. Lin, L. Civale, E. Nazaretski, B. H. Moeckly,
C. S. Yung, J. D. Thompson, and R. Movshovich, Phys. Rev. B **86**,
024501 (2012). * [27] J. H. Xu, J. H. Miller, Jr., and C. S. Ting, Phys.
Rev. B **51**, 424 (1995). * [28] M. W. Coffey, Phys. Rev. B **52**,
R9851 (1995). * [29] N. Haberkorn, B. Maiorov, M. Jaime, I. Usov, M.
Miura, G. F. Chen, W. Yu, and L. Civale, Phys. Rev. B **84**, 064533
(2011). * [30] L. Civale _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **65**, 1164
(1990). * [31] N. Haberkorn, B. Maiorov, I. O. Usov, M. Weigand, W.
Hirata, S. Miyasaka, S. Tajima, N. Chikumoto, K. Tanabe, and Leonardo
Civale, Phys. Rev. B **85**, 014522 (2012). * [32] E. Nazaretski, K. S.
Graham, J. D. Thompson, J. A. Wright, D. V. Pelekhov, P. C. Hammel, and
R. Movshovich, Rev. Sci. Instrum. **80**, 083704 (2009). * [33] C.
Martin _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **102**, 247002 (2009). * [34] A
SSS-QMFMR cantilever, Nanosensors, Inc. * [35] E. D. Bauer _et al._, J.
Alloys Compd. **488**, 554 (2009). * [36] Y. J. Uemura _et al._, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **62**, 2317 (1989). * [37] T. Das, J. X. Zhu, and M. J.
Graf, Phys. Rev. B **84**, 134510 (2011). * [38] K. Ohishi _et al._,
Phys. Rev. B **76**, 064504 (2007).

* (39) D. N. Basov, A. V. Puchkov, R. A. Hughes, T. Strach, J. Preston,
T. Timusk, D. A. Bonn, R. Liang, and W. N. Hardy, Phys. Rev. B **49**,
12165 (1994). * (40) S. H. Moffat, R. A. Hughes, and J. S. Preston,
Phys. Rev. B **55**, R14741 (1997). * (41) M. Franz, C. Kallin, A. J.
Berlinsky, and M. I. Salkola, Phys. Rev. B **56**, 7882 (1997). * (42)
Z. Szotek, B. L. Gyorffy, and W. M. Temmerman, Phys. Rev. B **62**, 3997
(2000). * (43) M. Prichhammer and J. P. Carbotte, Phys. Rev. B **43**,
5370 (1991). * (44) H. Kim, G. Preosti, and P. Muzikar, Phys. Rev. B
**49**, 3544 (1994). * (45) A. V. Chubukov, D. V. Efremov, and I.
Eremin, Phys. Rev. B **78**, 134512 (2008).
