Two-dimensional nature of superconductivity in the intercalated layered
systems Li_(x)HfNCl and Li_(x)ZrNCl: Muon spin relaxation and
magnetization measurements

T. Ito,* Y. Fudamoto, A. Fukaya, I. M. Gat-Malureanu, M. I. Larkin, P.
L. Russo, A. Savici, and Y. J. Uemura^(†)

Department of Physics, Columbia University, 538W 120th Street, New York,
New York 10027, USA

K. Groves and R. Breslow

Department of Chemistry, Columbia University, 3000 Broadway, New York,
New York 10027, USA

K. Hotehama and S. Yamanaka

Department of Applied Chemistry, Graduate School of Engineering,
Hiroshima University, Higashi-Hiroshima 739-8527, Japan

P. Kyriakou, M. Rovers, and G. M. Luke

Department of Physics and Astronomy, McMaster University, Hamilton,
Ontario, Canada L8S 4M1

K. M. Kojima

Department of Superconductivity, University of Tokyo, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo
113-8656, Japan

28 October 2003; published 30 April 2004

###### Abstract

We report muon spin relaxation (μSR) and magnetization measurements,
together with synthesis and characterization, of the Li-intercalated
layered superconductors Li_(x)HfNCl and Li_(x)ZrNCl with/without
countercalation of THF (tetrahydrofuran) or propylene carbonate. The
three-dimensional superfluid density n_(s)/m^(*) (superconducting
carrier density/effective mass) as well as the two-dimensional
superfluid density n_(s2D)/m_(ab)^(*) [two-dimensional (2D) area density
of superconducting carriers/ab-plane effective mass] have been derived
from the μSR results of the magnetic-field penetration depth λ_(ab)
observed with external magnetic field applied perpendicular to the 2D
honeycomb layer of HfN/ZrN. In a plot of T_(c) versus
n_(s2D)/m_(ab)^(*), most of the results lie close to the linear
relationship found for underdoped high-T_(c) cuprate (HTSC) and layered
organic BEDT (bis(ethylenedithio)) superconductors. In Li_(x)ZrNCl
without THF intercalation, the superfluid density and T_(c) for x = 0.17
and 0.4 do not show much difference, reminiscent of μSR results for some
overdoped HTSC systems. Together with the absence of dependence of T_(c)
on average interlayer distance among ZrN/HfN layers, these results
suggest that the 2D superfluid density n_(s2D)/m_(ab)^(*) is a dominant
determining factor for T_(c) in the intercalated nitride-chloride
systems. We also report μSR and magnetization results on depinning of
flux vortices, and the magnetization results for the upper critical
field H_(c2) and the penetration depth λ. A reasonable agreement was
obtained between μSR and magnetization estimates of λ. We discuss the
two-dimensional nature of superconductivity in the nitride-chloride
systems based on these results.

pacs: 0163-1829/2004/69(13)/134522 + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL
REVIEW B **69**, 134522 (2004)

## I Introduction

Layered superconductors, such as high-T_(c) cuprates (HTSC) or organic
BEDT (bis(ethylenedithio)) systems, have been a subject of extensive
research effort for decades. These systems show rich novel phenomena,
including superconducting fluctuations, pancake vortex, complicated
vortex phase diagrams, and interlayer Josephson effects. High-T_(c)
cuprate superconductors have been investigated extensively as
prototypical layered superconductors. The cuprates have a merit that
their carrier concentration can be controlled by chemical substitutions
and/or oxygen contents. On the other hand, it has not been easy to
control the interlayer distance in cuprates. In general,
superconductivity of these layered systems is deeply related to in-plane
features as well as interlayer couplings. For overall understanding of
superconductivity in these systems, it would be essential to elucidate
interplay between in-plane and interplane properties. Despite extensive
research effort, however, detailed roles of dimensionality are yet to be
clarified in these systems.

Recently, superconductivity was discovered in ZrNCl and HfNCl
intercalated with alkali-metal atoms (Li, Na, K).[1, 2] Systems based on
ZrNCl have superconducting transition temperatures T_(c)≤15 K, while
those based on HfNCl have T_(c)≤25.5 K. These systems can be
cointercalated with organic molecules, such as THF (tetrahydrofuran) or
PC (propylene carbonate). The parent compounds ZrNCl and HfNCl are
insulators which have a layered structure as shown in Fig. 1(a).
Zr(Hf)-N honeycomb double layers are sandwiched by Cl layers, and
composite Cl-(ZrN)-(ZrN)-Cl layers form a stacking unit. Adjacent
stacking units are bonded by weak van der Waals force. Alkali-metal
atoms and polar organic molecules such as THF or PC can be
cointercalated into the van der Waals gap of the parent compounds as
shown schematically in Fig. 1(b). Intercalated alkali-metal atoms are
supposed to release electrons into Zr(Hf)-N double layers, which makes
the system metallic and superconducting. On the other hand, intercalated
organic molecules expand interlayer distance without changing Zr(Hf)-N
honeycomb double layers. So we can control two separate parameters,
carrier concentration and the stacking unit distance, in a single series
of nitride chlorides with the common superconducting slab. This unique
feature could allow studies of layered superconductors from a new angle.

In this paper, we will present synthesis and characterization of a
series of intercalated ZrNCl and HfNCl samples, together with studies of
their superconducting properties using muon spin relaxation (μSR),
magnetization, and resistivity measurements. A part of this work was
presented in a conference,[3] where we reported μSR results in
HfNCl-Li_(0.5)-THF_(0.3), showed that T_(c) and the two-dimensional (2D)
superfluid density in this system follow the correlations found in
cuprates and BEDT systems, and discussed that this feature likely comes
from departure from BCS condensation, which can be understood in terms
of crossover from Bose-Einstein to BCS condensation. Subsequently, Tou
_et al._[4] reported a NMR Knight shift study which inferred a rather
small density of states at the Fermi level in HfNCl-Li-THF, and
discussed difficulty in explaining the high transition temperature T_(c)
in terms of the conventional BCS theory. Tou _et al._[5] also reported a
rather high upper critical field H_(c2)(T→0)∼ 100 kG, for the field
applied perpendicular to the conducting planes, from magnetization and
NMR measurements.

Extensive μSR measurements of the magnetic-field penetration depth λ
have been performed to date in various superconducting systems, such as
HTSC,[6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13] fullerides,[14, 15] and 2D organic
BEDT systems.[16] Universal nearly linear correlations have been found
between T_(c) and the muon spin relaxation rate
σ(T→0)×1/λ^(2.5α)n_(s)/m^(*) (superconducting carrier density/effective
mass) in the underdoped region of many HTSC systems and in some other
exotic superconductors.[6, 7] Such correlations are seen also in HTSC
superconductors having extra perturbations, such as overdoping,[8, 12,
17] (Cu,Zn) substitutions,[18] or spontaneous formation of nanoscale
regions with static stripe spin correlations.[19, 20] In all these
systems, T_(c) follows the correlations with superfluid density found
for less perturbed standard HTSC systems. These results indicate that
the superfluid density is a determining factor for T_(c) in the
cuprates.[21]

In general, a strong dependence of T_(c) on the carrier density is not
expected in conventional BCS theory[22] where T_(c) is determined by the
mediating boson (phonon) energy scale and the density of states of
carriers at the Fermi level which govern the charge-boson
(electron-phonon) coupling. For 2D metals, the density of states does
not depend on the carrier density in the simplest case of noninteracting
fermion gas. Therefore, the BCS theory has a fundamental difficulty in
explaining the observed correlations. In contrast, an explicit
dependence of T_(c) can be expected for the condensation temperature
T_(B) in Bose-Einstein (BE) condensation of a simple Bose gas, as well
as for the Kosterlitz-Thouless (KT) transition temperature T_(KT) for a
2D superfluid.[23] In BE and KT transitions, the transition temperature
is determined simply by the number density and the mass, since the
condensation is decoupled from the formation of condensing bosons in
these two cases. The universality of the T_(c) versus n_(s)/m^(*)
relationship observed beyond the difference of systems, such as
cuprates, fullerides, organics, etc., may be related to this feature.
Pictures proposed to explain the correlations between T_(c) and the
superfluid density in the cuprates include crossover from Bose-Einstein
to BCS condensation[24, 25, 26, 27, 28] and phase fluctuations.[29] In
the present work, we extend our study to intercalated nitride-chloride
systems, seeking further insights into such phenomenology.

We have also determined the upper critical field H_(c2) of
nitride-chloride systems from magnetization and resistivity
measurements. Although it is not easy to determine H_(c2) in layered
superconductors due to the strong superconducting fluctuations, Hao _et
al._[30] developed an approach to overcome such difficulty using a model
for reversible diamagnetic magnetization of type-II superconductors
which have high κ values. Here, κ is the Ginzburg-Landau parameter
defined as the ratio of the penetration depth λ to the coherence length
ξ. In this model, one calculates the free energy including the
supercurrent kinetic energy, the magnetic-field energy, as well as the
kinetic-energy and condensation-energy terms arising from suppression of
the order parameter in the vortex core. This method has been
successfully applied to various high-T_(c) cuprate superconductors. We
will apply this model to superconducting Hf(Zr)NCl in the temperature
and field region where the effect of superconducting fluctuations is
negligible.

## II Synthesis and Characterization

The parent compounds HfNCl and ZrNCl were synthesized by the reaction of
Zr or Hf powder with vaporized NH₄Cl at 600 ^(∘)C for 30 min in N₂
flow.[31] The resulting powder was sealed in a quartz ampule and was
purified by a chemical vapor transport method with temperature
gradient.[32] For the purification, an end of the ampule with prereacted
powder was kept at 800 ^(∘)C and the other end, where purified powder is
collected, at 900 ^(∘)C for three days. No impurity phase was detected
in the purified powder from x-ray diffraction.

Since a Li-intercalated sample is sensitive to air, intercalation was
performed in a glove box. We used three intercalation methods[33] to
prepare a variety of samples.

Figure 1: (Color online) Schematic figures of the crystal structure of
Hf(Zr)NCl (a) without intercalation and (b) cointercalated with Li and
THF. The stacking unit thickness (=c₀/3, where c₀ is c-axis lattice
constant) is also shown.

(i) Li-intercalated ZrNCl samples were prepared by soaking parent ZrNCl
powder in three kinds of butyllithium solution. We used 2.0M (mol/l)
_n_-butyllithium solution in cyclohexane, 1.3M _sec_-butyllithium
solution in cyclohexane, and 1.7M _tert_-butyllithium solution in
pentane for this purpose. In this order, reducing ability becomes
stronger and therefore higher concentration of Li atoms can be
intercalated into the parent compound. We used solution which contained
butyllithium corresponding to more than 2, 5, and 5 equivalents of ZrNCl
for _n_-, _sec_-, and _tert_-butyllithium to avoid the dilution of
butyllithium in the intercalation process.

(ii) We performed countercalation of Li and organic molecules into ZrNCl
by soaking Li intercalated ZrNCl powder [prepared by the method (i)
using _n_-Butyllithium solution] in enough THF or PC.

(iii) Li- and THF-cointercalated HfNCl samples were prepared by soaking
HfNCl powder in various concentrations (2.5-100 mM) of lithium
naphthalene (Li-naph) solution in THF. Since phase separation was often
observed in the samples prepared by the method (iii), we selected
single-phase samples for the measurements in this study via
characterization from T_(c) as well as _c_-axis lattice constant.

The Li- and THF-cointercalated HfNCl sample with the largest _c_-axis
lattice constant according to the method (iii) was prepared at Hiroshima
University, while all the other samples at Columbia University. Table I
shows a list of these samples.

The chemical composition was determined by inductively coupled plasma
atomic emission spectroscopy (ICP-AEM) and CHN elemental analysis. The
powder samples were pressed into pellets under uniaxial stress and
sealed in cells made of Kapton film and epoxy glue for x-ray
measurements. The x-ray rocking curve of (00/l) peaks for cleaved
surface (inside a pellet) shows a peak with half-width at half maximum
of  8deg, which indicates that the bulk of the samples have well-aligned
preferred orientation and are suitable for studies of anisotropic
properties. Essentially similar rocking curves were also observed for
as-prepared surfaces of pellets.

The superconducting transition temperature of the samples was determined
from measurements of magnetic susceptibility _kh_. In Fig. 2, we show
the results of _kh_ in intercalated ZrNCl specimens which were examined
by _m_SR measurements. The values of _kh_ = _M_/_H_ are of the order for
ideal perfect diamagnetism - 3/8p for spherical samples and - 1/4p for
long cylindrical samples with the field parallel to the cylinder axis.
The determination of the absolute values of _kh_, however, can be
affected by such factors as nonspherical sample shape, sample
morphology, and residual field in a superconducting quantum interference
device (SQUID) magnetometer. These factors might have caused deviation
of some of the zero-field-cooled shielding values of _kh_ from - 1/4p.

In Table I, we summarize the composition, synthesis method, distance
between adjacent stacking units (1/3 of the _c_-axis lattice constant
c0, see Fig. 1), and the superconducting transition temperature T_(c)
for these samples. The stacking unit distance is 9.4 A for the
Li-intercalated samples prepared by the method (i) without
cointercalation of organic molecules. This value is almost the same as
that for uninter-calated parent compound (9.3 A) without Li. With
increasing Li concentration x from 0.17 to 0.6 (in the samples without
cointercalation of organic molecules), T_(c) decreases from 14.2 K to
11.7 K. Figure 3(a) shows the x dependence of T_(c)

Figure 2: (Color online) Magnetic susceptibility _kh_ vs temperature
measured in H = 5 Oe in the field-cooling (FC) and zero-field-cooling
(ZFC) procedures in the specimens of intercalated ZrNCl which were used
in the _μ_SR measurements.

  -------------------- ------------------------- ------ ------- ----------------------- ----- ----------------- ---------- --------------
         Sample            Synthesis method       c0/3   T_(c)   _λ_ab,_μ_SR_(_T_ → 0)   _κ_   _H__c_2,|_k_(0)   _ξ_ab(0)   _λ_ab,_M_(0)
                                                  (Å)     (K)             (Å)            (T)         (Å)           (Å)     
      Li0.17ZrNCl        (i) _n_-Butyllithium     9.4    14.2            3700            56          4.7            83          4700
       Li0.4ZrNCl       (i) _sec_-Butyllithium    9.4    12.5            3900                                              
       Li0.6ZrNCl       (i) _tert_-Butyllithium   9.4    11.7                                                              
   Li0.15THF0.08ZrNCl          (ii) THF           13.3   14.4            5200            76          4.2            88          6700
   Li0.18PC0.15ZrNCl            (ii) PC           13.3   14.6                                                              
   Li0.24THF0.14HNCl     (iii) 8 m_M_ Li-Naph     13.3   25.5                                                              
    Li0.5THF0.3HINCl     (iii) 100 mM Li-Naph     18.7   25.5            3900                                              
  -------------------- ------------------------- ------ ------- ----------------------- ----- ----------------- ---------- --------------

Table 1: Synthesis method (see the text for details), stacking unit
distance (_c_0/3), superconducting transition temperature T_(c)
estimated from magnetization, magnetic-field penetration depth
_λ_ab,_μ_SR_(_T_ → 0) at zero temperature limit estimated from TF-_μ_SR,
Ginzburg-Landau parameter _κ_, upper critical field at zero temperature
_H__c_2,|_c_(0), coherence length at zero temperature _ξ_ab(0), and
magnetic penetration depth at zero temperature _λ_ab,_M_(0) estimated
from reversible magnetization for intercalated HfNCl and ZrNCl systems
reported in the present work. TF-_μ_SR and magnetization measurements
were performed under the magnetic field parallel to the c axis.

in Li,ZrNCl and Li_(x)HfNCl samples, with/without cointercalation,
obtained in the present study. In Fig. 3 and Table 1, we find that (1)
T_(c) shows a slow reduction with increasing x; and (2) for close x
values, T_(c) does not depend much on the stacking-unit distance c_(c)/3
[see Fig. 3(b)]. These results are qualitatively consistent with the
reported results in the Li, K, and Na doped ZrNCl samples with/without
cointercalation of organic molecules.[34] Decrease of T_(c) with
increasing charge doping is reminiscent of the case of overdoped
high-T_(c) cuprate superconductors.

To the best of our knowledge, this is the first report of success in
Li-THF intercalation into ZrNCl by sec- and tert-butyllithium. The
stacking unit thickness is 13.3 or 18.7 A for the methods (ii) and
(iii). As has been reported, T_(c) is almost unaffected by the expansion
of the stacking-unit distance from ∼ 9.4 A to ∼ 13.3 A for the samples
with Li content x∼ 0.17 [see Fig. 2(b)]. Systems based on HfNCl has
T_(c) = 25.5 K, nearly a factor of 2 higher than that for intercalated
ZrNCl.

## III μSR: Experiment

Our μSR experiments were performed at TRIUMF, the Canadian National
Accelerator Laboratory located in Vancouver, Canada, which provided a
high intensity and polarized beam of positive muons. Each pressed pellet
sample, with the c axis aligned, was sealed in a sample cell which has a
Kapton window and mounted in a He gas-flow cryostat with the c axis
parallel to the direction of muon beam. Transverse external field (TF)
was applied parallel to the beam direction, while muons are injected
with their initial spin polarization perpendicular to the field/beam
direction. Low-momentum (surface) muons with the incident momentum of
29.8 MeV/c were implanted in the pellet specimens. The average stopping
depth, 100-200 mg/cm², assured that the majority of muons are stopped
within the specimen, after going through Kapton windows of the cryostat
and the sample cell.

Plastic scintillation counters were used to detect the arrival of a
positive muon and its decay into a positron, and the decay-event
histogram was obtained as a function of muon residence time t which
corresponds to the time difference of the muon arrival and positron
decay signals. The time evolution of muon spin direction/polarization
was obtained from the angular asymmetry of positron histograms, after
correction for the exponential decay exp (−t/τ_(μ)), where τ_(μ) = 2.2
μs is the mean lifetime of a positive muon. Details of μSR technique can
be found, for example, in Refs. 35-37.

The asymmetry time spectra A(t) were fit to a functional form:

A(t) = A(0)exp (−σ²t²/2)cos (ωt + ϕ),

where A(0) is the initial decay asymmetry at t = 0. The muon spin
precesses at the frequencies ω = γ_(μ)H_(ex1), where γ_(μ) is the
gyromagnetic ratio of a muon (2 π×13.554 MHz/kG) and H_(exl) denotes the
transverse external magnetic field. As shown in Fig. 4, for an example
of Li_(0.17)ZrNCl, this oscillation exhibits faster damping in the
superconducting state due to inhomogeneous distribution of internal
magnetic fields in the flux vortex structure. In pressed pellet samples
of random or oriented powder, this relaxation can usually be
approximated by a Gaussian decay which defines the muon spin relaxation
rate σ.

For systems except for ZrNCl-Li-THF, the μSR results were analyzed by
assuming a single-component signal, which shows a reasonable agreement
to the data as in Fig. 4(b). In ZrNCl cointercalated with Li and THF,
the relative value of the shielding susceptibility was significantly
lower than those of other samples, as shown in Fig. 2. Although it is
not clear, this reduced susceptibility could possibly imply a finite
fraction of superconducting volume. As a precautionary measure, by
fitting selected low-temperature signals in field-cooled and
zero-field-cooled procedures to an asymmetry function having
two-component signals, we estimated an upper limit of the relaxation
rate for the superconducting fraction. This upper limit is shown (in
Figs. 6 and 7) by the error bar placed to the right side of the main
point for σ which was obtained for a single-component asymmetry
function.

Figure 3: (Color online) Dependence of T_(c), as determined from the
susceptibility, on (a) Li concentration x and on (b) stacking unit
distance c_(c)/3 in Li_(x)ZrNCl and Li_(x)HfNCl with/without
cointercalation of THF or PC.

## IV μSR: spectra and relaxation rate

Figure 4 shows time spectra of muon decay asymmetry for a representative
sample above and below T_(c). In the normal state above T_(c), the
oscillation shows a small relaxation due to nuclear dipole fields. We
denote this relaxation rate as σ_(n). Below T_(c), the relaxation
becomes faster due to additional field distribution from the flux vortex
lattice. For each specimen, the zero-field μSR spectra obtained above
and well below T_(c) did not show any difference. This assures that the
temperature dependence of the relaxation rate observed in TF is due to
superconductivity alone, and also implies that there is no detectable
effect of time-reversal symmetry breaking, contrary to the case of UPt₃
(Ref. [38]) and Sr₂RuO₄. [39]

The effect of the superconducting vortex lattice can be obtained by
subtracting this normal-state background σ_(n) from the observed
relaxation rate σ_(ob). Since the nuclear dipolar broadening and
superconducting broadening of the internal fields do not add coherently,
here we adopt quadratic subtraction to obtain the relaxation rate σ due
to superconductivity as

$$\sigma = \sqrt{\sigma_{ob}^{2}-\sigma_{n}^{2}}\quad\mbox{for}\quad(\sigma_ {ob}\geq\sigma_{n})$$

and

$$\sigma = - \sqrt{\sigma_{n}^{2}-\sigma_{ob}^{2}}\quad\mbox{for}\quad(\sigma_ {ob}<\sigma_{n}).$$

Note that this procedure makes the error bar rather large around σ = 0.

Figure 5(a) shows the temperature dependence of the relaxation rate σ
for the samples cointercalated with organic molecules having expanded
interlayer distance. With decreasing temperature, the relaxation rate
begins to increase below the superconducting transition temperature
T_(c). At the flux-pinning temperature T_(p), the zero-field-cooling
(ZFC) curve begins to deviate from the field-cooling (FC) curve. In the
ZFC procedures, flux vortices are required to enter the specimen from
its edge and move a large distance before reaching their equilibrium
position. Below the pinning temperature T_(p), this long-distance flux
motion could be prevented by the flux pinning, resulting in a highly
inequilibrium flux lattice and more inhomogeneous field distribution at
muon sites. This behavior has been observed in earlier μSR studies of
HTSC, [40] BEDT, [16] and some other systems. In both systems shown in
Fig. 5(a), we find that T_(p) is much lower than T_(c), which is a
characteristic feature for highly 2D

Figure 4: (Color online) The time spectra of muon asymmetry A(t)
measured in Li_(0.17)ZrNCl at (a) T = 19 K (above T_(c)) and (b) T = 2.5
K (well below T_(c)) under the transverse external field of 500 G. The
apparent precession frequency in this graph is modified from the actual
precession frequency by the use of a rotating reference frame. The solid
lines show a fit to Gaussian decay envelope.

Figure 5: (Color online) Temperature dependence of the muon spin
relaxation rate σ(T) in (a) Hf(Zr)NCl countercalated with Li atoms and
THF, and (b) Li₂ZrNCl without cointercalation. The upper panel (a) shows
the results obtained in the field cooling (FC) and zero-field cooling
(ZFC) procedures, while the results in the lower panel (b) were obtained
in the FC procedure. Dashed lines are guides to the eyes.

superconductors. The μSR results of T_(p) for the present systems agree
well with those from magnetization measurements discussed in Sec. VII.

We performed FC measurements using a wide range of external transverse
magnetic fields H_(ext), and found no significant dependence of σ on
H_(ext) from 40 G to 1000 G, as shown in Fig. 5. In TF-μSR measurements
in highly 2D superconductors, such as Bi2212 or (BEDT-TTF)₂Cu(NCS)₂,
application of a high external magnetic field transforms 3D flux vortex
structure into 2D pancake vortices, since higher field implies stronger
coupling of flux vortices within a given plane and higher chance for the
vortex location in each plane to be determined by random defect position
on each plane.[41] The absence of field dependence in our measurements
implies that corrections for the 2D vortex effect is not necessary in
the present study. This situation is expected for our c axis aligned
powder specimens. The relaxation rate σ(T) shows a tendency of
saturation at low temperatures in all of the measured samples of
nitride-chloride systems in the present study. This behavior is
characteristic for s-wave superconductors. However, experiments using
high-quality single crystals are required for a conclusive determination
of the superconducting pairing symmetry. In the case of HTSC cuprates,
d-wave pairing was established only after μSR results on high-quality
crystals of YBa₂Cu₃O_(y) became available.[42]

Figure 5(b) shows the temperature dependence of σ for the samples
without organic cointercalant. The dependence of σ on temperature T and
field H_(ext) of the field-cooling results was essentially similar to
that for specimens with coinc intercalation in Fig. 5(a). In these
systems, we determined the pinning temperature T_(p) by magnetization
measurements instead of by μSR, and show the results in Sec. VII.

## V μSR: Comparison with other systems and superfluid energy scales

The μSR relaxation rate due to the penetration depth is related to the
superconducting carrier density n_(s), effective mass m*, the coherence
length ξ, and the mean free path l as

$$\sigma\propto\lambda^{-2}=\frac{4\,\pi e^{2}}{c^{2}}\,\frac{n_{s}}{m^{*}}\, \frac{1}{1+\xi/l}.$$

The proportionality to n_(s)/m* comes from the fact that this effect is
caused by the superconducting screening current, and consequently
reflecting the current density in a similar way to the normal-state
conductivity of a metal which is proportional to the carrier density
divided by the effective mass. As will be shown later, ξ is estimated to
be 80-90 A in the present nitride-chloride systems. The mean free path
cannot be determined at the moment, since a high-quality single crystal
is not yet available. In this situation, we proceed with the following
arguments by assuming that the system falls in the clean limit (ξ≪l).
Clean limit has been confirmed in many other strongly type-II
superconductors, such as the cuprates and BEDT systems.

In highly anisotropic 2D superconductors, the penetration depth measured
with the external field parallel and perpendicular to the conducting
plane could be very different. For the geometry with H_(ext)
perpendicular to the conducting plane, related to the in-plane
penetration depth λ_(ab) as in the present study, the superconducting
screening current flows within the plane, resulting in the more
effective partial screening of H_(ext) and the shorter λ compared to the
case with H_(ext) parallel to the planes. In the present work, our
specimen has a highly oriented c-axis direction within +/ −8^(∘), and we
regard our specimen as equivalent to single-crystal specimens in terms
of anisotropy. A theory/simulation work[43] shows that for unoriented
ceramic specimens of highly 2D superconductors, value of σ should be
reduced by a factor of 1/1.4 from the value for single crystals observed
with H_(ext) applied perpendicular to the conducting planes.

In Fig. 6, in a plot of T_(c) versus the low-temperature relaxation rate
σ(T→0)×n_(s)/m*, we compare the results of the present nitride-chloride
systems with those from cuprate and organic BEDT superconductors. The
point for the BEDT system was obtained in μSR measurements using
single-crystal specimens.[16] The shaded area denoted as cuprates
represents the universal linear correlations found for unoriented
ceramic specimens of underdoped yttrium barium copper oxide (YBCO)
systems: we multiplied the relaxation rate in these YBCO by a factor of
1.4 to account for the

Figure 6: (Color online) Correlations between T_(c) and the muon spin
relaxation rate σ(T→0) of intercalated H(Zr)NCl (present work),
high-T_(c) cuprates (Ref. 6), and (BEDT-TTF)₂-Cu(NCS)₂ (Ref. 16). The
horizontal axis is proportional to the three-dimensional superfluid
density n_(s)/m* in the ground state. The results of σ for the cuprates,
obtained using unoriented ceramic specimens, are multiplied by a factor
∼1.4 for the comparison with those from nitride-chloride and BEDT
systems obtained using single crystals and oriented ceramic specimens.

difference between single crystal and unoriented ceramic specimens. The
data points lie in possibly two different groups having different slopes
in the T_(c)/σ relation. The first group with a higher slope includes
the present nitride-chloride systems with countercalation of organic
molecules and the BEDT system, all of which have highly 2D character as
demonstrated by their depinning temperature T_(p) being nearly a 1/3−1/2
of T_(c). The second group includes YBCO cuprates and nitride-chloride
systems without organic countercalation, all of which have more
three-dimensional (3D) character in the flux pinning property with T_(p)
closer to T_(c). The irreversibility and depinning behavior in
Li_(x)ZrNCl without organic countercalation was studied not by μSR but
by magnetization measurements as described in Sec. VII.

The relaxation rate observed by μSR is determined by the 3D superfluid
density n_(s)/m*, as this is a phenomenon caused by the screening
supercurrent density in bulk specimens. With the knowledge of interlayer
spacing c_(int), one can convert 3D density n_(s)/m* into 2D density on
each conducting plane as n_(s2D)/m*=(n_(s)/m*)c_(int). For systems
having double-layer conducting planes, such as the present nitride
chlorides or some family of the cuprates, the average interlayer spacing
depends on whether or not the double layer is regarded as a single
conducting unit or two. In our previous reports for cuprates, [26] we
treated the double layer as two single layers. We shall follow this
approach here, and define the c_(int) to be a half of the stacking unit
distance as c_(int)=c₀/6.

In Fig. 7, we show a plot of T_(c) versus the 2D superfluid density
n_(s2D)/m* represented by the value σ(T→0)c_(int). We include a point
obtained in c axis oriented ceramic specimen of YBa₂Cu₃O₇ (Ref. [44])
(without multiplying a factor 1.4 to σ since this specimen had an almost
perfect alignment of c-axis direction). We find that most of the data
points share a unique slope in Fig. 7. This result suggests two
features: (1) within the nitride-chloride systems, 2D superfluid density
n_(s2D)/m* is a determining factor for T_(c); and (2) the 2D superfluid
density may even be a fundamental determining factor for T_(c) among
different superconducting systems. However, the second conclusion (2)
must be taken with caution, because, this analysis depends on our
treatment regarding single versus double layers, and also because recent
data on Tl2201 (Ref. [8]). and Bi2201 (Ref. [45]). cuprates, having very
large interlayer distance c_(int)>12 A, show universal behavior with the
results from YBCO (c_(int)∼ 6 A) only in a 3D plot as in Fig. 6 but not
in a 2D plot as in Fig. 7. [26] In contrast, the conclusion (1) is more
robust, since all the nitride-chloride systems have double conducting
layers and since the predominant 2D character is consistent with the
absence of dependence of T_(c) on interlayer spacing in nitride
chlorides shown in Fig. 3(b).

Since the Fermi energy of a 2D metal is proportional to the 2D carrier
density n_(2D) divided by the in-plane effective mass m*, as T_(F)=
(ℏ²π)n_(2D)/m*, the horizontal axis of Fig. 7 can be converted into an
energy scale representing superconducting condensate. This conversion
from penetration depth to the superfluid energy scale was first
attempted by Uemura _et al._[7] in 1991 and later followed by other
researchers, including Emery and Kivelson. [29]

In order to do such a conversion, one needs to obtain absolute values of
the penetration depth λ from the relaxation rate σ. The numerical factor
in this σ to λ conversion in σ∝λ⁻² depends on models used for analyses
of relaxation function line shapes, fitting range of data analyses,
treatment of single crystal versus ceramic samples, and some other
factors. The Gaussian decay, which fits most of the data from ceramic
samples quite well, is significantly different from the ideal field
distribution P(H) expected for a perfect Abrikosov vortex lattice in
triangular lattice. So, using a theoretical second moment for P(H) in
Abrikosov lattice is not necessarily appropriate for data analyses in
real experiments. After various simulations and consistency checks, we
decided to adopt a factor which gives λ = 2700 A for σ = 1 μs⁻¹ for a
triangular lattice. Note that this conversion is for a standard
triangular lattice, contrary to the statements of Tou and co-workers [4,
5] who have erroneously cited that we calculated λ for a square vortex
lattice. Then we can derive n_(s2D)/m* from the observed values of σ and
known values of c_(int). In the horizontal axis of Fig. 7, we attach the
2D Fermi temperature T_(F2D) corresponding to the 2D superfluid density
obtained in the above-mentioned procedure.

A 2D superfluid of Bose gas, such as thin films of liquid

Figure 7: (Color online) Correlations between T_(c) and σ(T→0)c_(int) of
intercalated Hf(Zr)NCl, organic BEDT (Ref. [16]), and YBa₂Cu₃O₇ (YBCO)
(Ref. [44]), where c_(int) stands for average interlayer distance. We
regard the double layers in the nitride chlorides and cuprates as two
separate layers, and thus assume c_(int)=c_(eq)/6 for the nitride
chlorides and c_(int)∼6 Å for YBCO. The horizontal axis is proportional
to the 2D superfluid density n_(s2D)/m*. To the horizontal axis, we also
attach the corresponding energy scale, two-dimensional Fermi temperature
T_(F2D), obtained from the 2D superfluid density.

He, undergoes superfluid to normal transition via a thermal excitation
of unbound flux vortices, as shown by Kosterlitz and Thouless KT.[23]
For paired fermion systems composed of n fermions with mass m, forming a
superfluid with boson density _n_/2 and mass _2m_, the
Kosterlitz-Thouless transition temperature _TKT_ becomes 1/8 of the 2D
Fermi temperature _TFN_2D of the corresponding fermion system. In the KT
theory, the 2D superfluid density at the transition temperature _TKT_
should follow system-independent universal behavior: namely,
(ℏ²π)n_(s2D)/m^(*) at _T_=_TKT_ equals _TFN_2D/8. This universal
relation was first confirmed by an experiment on He thin films.[46] In
systems close to ideal Bose gas, the 2D superfluid density shows almost
no reduction between T = 0 and T = _TKT_.[46] Thus, in such a case, we
would expect the points in Fig. 7 [based on n2D/_m_*(_T_ = 0)] to lie on
the _TKT_ line. In thin films of BCS superconductors, the superfluid
density shows much reduction from the value of T = 0 to T = _TKT_, and
the "KT jump of superfluid density" becomes invisible. This corresponds
to the situation where the points in Fig. 7 lie far in the right side of
the _TKT_ line. In Fig. 7, most of the points lie about a factor of 2
away from the _TKT_ line. The linear relation between _T_c and
_n_s2D/_m_*(_T_ = 0) suggests relevance to the KT transition, as pointed
out by Emery and Kivelson.[29] However, the deviation from the _TKT_
line implies serious difference from the ideal KT situation.

## VI Magnetization measurements: Experiment

Magnetization measurements were performed using a SQUID magnetometer
(Quantum Design) at Columbia. Aligned pressed samples were sealed in
quartz ampules. The raw response curve was corrected by the subtraction
of the quartz background curve measured in advance. In the normal state
of the superconducting Hf(Zr)NCl samples, as well as the parent
compounds, weak-ferromagnetic behavior is observed up to room
temperature. This weak-ferromagnetic behavior changes by the
intercalation. Therefore, we subtracted the weak-ferromagnetic
contribution. We estimated this by extrapolating temperature dependence,
assuming the Curie-Weiss law [_M_ = _C_/(_T_ - _th_)] and fitting the
normal-state magnetization in the temperature range of 2.5_T_c T 5 _T_c
. In this temperature range, superconducting fluctuations can be
neglected and the temperature dependence is slightly concave. We only
used the data with the extrapolated weak-ferromagnetic contribution
smaller than 10

## VII Magnetization measurements: Superconducting properties

Magnetization measurements were performed in Li0.17ZrNCl and
Li0.15THF0.08ZrNCl with magnetic fields applied parallel to the c axis.
Figure 8 shows the results obtained after the corrections for the quartz
ample background and for the weak-ferromagnetic contribution. We note
that a crossing point exists in the _M_(_T_) curve under various
magnetic fields for each system, which is characteristic of
quasi-two-dimensional superconductors.[47] There are reversible
temperature regions where ZFC and FC magnetization curves overlap each
other. Below a certain temperature (the pinning temperature _TFN_), ZFC
and FC magnetization curves deviate. We notice that the reversible
region is wider for Li0.15THF0.08ZrNCl. This result is consistent with a
picture that, by the expansion of the interlayer distance, the
interlayer coupling becomes weaker and the pinning of the vortices
becomes less effective.

In the data analyses in the reversible region of Li0.17ZrNCl and
Li0.15THF0.08ZrNCl, we confined to the temperature region apart from
_T_c(_H_) in order to avoid ambiguity due to the superconducting
fluctuations. As shown in Fig. 9,

Figure 8: (Color online) Temperature dependence of the magnetization of
(a) Li0.17ZrNCl and (b) Li0.15THF0.08ZrNCl in external magnetic fields
applied parallel to the c axis. For the plotted data, the quartz ampule
background is corrected and the weak-ferromagnetic contribution is
subtracted.

the data scale quite well to Hao’s model in the whole reversible
temperature range below T_(c) for both the systems. For all the data,
M^(′) ≤ H^(′) and hence the demagnetization factor can be ignored. This
analysis yielded values of κ ranging between 50 and 80 (see Table 1),
which indicates that these compounds are extreme type-II
superconductors. In Fig. 10, we show the values of the upper critical
field H_(c2 ⊥ c)(T) obtained down to T = 2 K in this process using Hao’s
model. The temperature dependence of H_(c2 ⊥ c)(T) fits well to an
empirical formula H_(c2 ⊥ c)(0)[1 − (T/T_(c))²], as shown by the dashed
lines in Fig. 10. We emphasize that the low-temperature limit value
H_(c2 ⊥ c)(T → 0) can be obtained almost without any extrapolation using
this formula: the resulting values are shown in Table 1. The H_(c2 ⊥ c)
value of ∼ 4 − 5 T in ZrNCl-Li-THF system is about a factor of 2 smaller
than H_(c2) ∼ 10 T in HfNCl-Li-THF system reported by You _et al._[5]
These results might indicate that H_(c2) roughly scales with T_(c) . A
similar nearly linear relation between H_(c2) and T_(c) can be found in
the H_(c2) values for high-T_(c) cuprate superconductors in the optimum
doping region.

The critical temperature T_(c) obtained using Hao’s model is 14.9 K for
both samples, which agrees with the estimate from the onset of
diamagnetism due to superconductivity. We notice that at H = 55 kG above
H_(c2 ⊥ c)(0), a diamagnetic behavior due to superconducting fluctuation
was observed in magnetization as shown in Fig. 8. Similar results due to
critical fluctuations have been reported in HTSC (Refs. 48−50) and BEDT
(Ref. 51) systems. We obtained the in-plane coherence length ξ_(ab)(0)
and the in-plane penetration depth λ_(ab, M)(0) using expressions
H_(c2⊥)(0) = ϕ₀ /2πξ(0)² and κ = λ/ξ. These results are also summarized
in Table 1. We note that H_(c2 ⊥ c)(0) and ξ_(ab)(0) are almost
unaffected by the interlayer distance. This agrees with the view that
the essence of the superconductivity in Hf(Zr)NCl is dominated in
Hf(Zr)-N honeycomb double layers. The values of the penetration depth
determined both from μSR and magnetization show reasonable agreement,
although the former is ∼20

In magnetization measurements (see Fig. 8) and μSR measurements [see
Fig. 5(a)], the results become history dependent below a pinning
temperature T_(p) for a given external field H_(ext). This feature can
be expressed by defining the irreversibility field H_(irr) for a given
temperature T as H_(ext)(T = T_(p)) = H_(irr). Figure 10 also includes
H_(irr) as a function of temperature, determined from magnetization and
μSR measurements. The results obtained from the two different techniques
exhibit excellent agreement. ZrNCl superconductors have a quite large
reversible region in the H-T plane. The temperature dependence of the
irreversibility field fits well to a functional form
H_(irr)(T) = H_(irr)(0)(T_(c)/T − 1)^(n), obtained for
three-dimensionally fluctuating vortices,[52] with n = 1.5 at low fields
below H ∼ 0.4 T. This provides support to our assumption of 3D vortex
lines which we adopted in our analyses of TF−μSR spectra taken below
H = 0.1 T. At higher fields, the fitting becomes worse, similar to Ref.
52. This may be related to a dimensional crossover from 3D to 2D vortex
fluctuations. More careful measurements are necessary to conclude this
point.

In order to provide a cross-check for the results of H_(c2)(T), we
performed magnetoresistance measurements on Li_(0.17)ZrNCl. The
temperature dependence of resistivity for

Figure 10: (Color online) Temperature dependence of the upper critical
field H_(c2 ⊥ c) and the irreversibility field H_(irr) in Li_(0.17)ZrNCl
and Li_(0.15)THF_(0.08)ZrNCl. H_(c2 ∥ c) was obtained from magnetization
measurements (abbreviated as M in the figure), and H_(irr) from
magnetization and TF−μSR measurements. The broken lines show a fit to
the functional form of H_(c2) given in the text.

Figure 9: (Color online) Magnetization as a function of applied field
(parallel to the c axis) in (a) Li_(0.17)ZrNCl and (b)
Li_(0.15)THF_(0.08)ZrNCl, shown in the reduced (dimensionless) units.
The solid curves represent a fit to the model of Hao _et al._ (Ref. 30).

two sets of field and current configurations is shown in Fig. 11. High
resistivity of the order of 100m Ω cm and negative slope of the
resistivity in the normal state at low temperatures could be due to
grain boundaries and may not be intrinsic. The observed superconducting
transition is broadened by superconducting fluctuations, weakly
superconducting regions such as grain boundaries, and vortex motion due
to Lorenz force. We notice that the resistive broadening is slightly
larger for H∥c, which is a natural consequence of significant
superconducting fluctuations only for H∥c. We defined T_(c)(H) where
resistivity shows 50

## VIII Discussions and Conclusions

The quasi-two-dimensional nature of the superconducting state appears in
various superconducting properties of intercalated Hf(Zr)NCl. T_(c)
correlates with a 2D superconducting carrier density n_(s2D) divided by
effective mass m^(#) rather than the 3D counterpart. Diamagnetic
magnetization due to superconducting fluctuation for H∥c is observed at
high temperatures and high fields. The crossing point exists in M(T)
curves measured at various fields. The reversible region of
magnetization becomes larger with the increase of interlayer distance,
suggesting weaker interlayer coupling.

In addition to these results, we note that T_(c), n_(s2D)/m^(#), and
ξ_(ab) (H_(c2⊥c)) show moderate dependence on chemical doping level
which presumably represents the in-plane normal-state carrier
concentration, while remaining almost independent of the stacking unit
distance. These parameters are closely related to the superconductivity
mechanism of this layered superconductor. Since the coherence length is
a measure for the pair size, independence of ξ_(ab) on interlayer
distance implies that interlayer coupling does not affect the pair
formation. It is then possible to consider a picture in which
fluctuating superconductivity exists within a given layer, while the
layers are coupled weakly by Josephson coupling to achieve 3D bulk
superconductivity.

Contrary to these parameters, λ_(ab) and T_(p) exhibit substantial
dependences on the interlayer distance. The reduction of λ_(ab) with
increasing stacking-unit distance can be understood as a simple
reduction of the supercurrent density caused by lower density of the
planes. The strong dependence of T_(p) on c_(int) is not surprising:
this behavior has been seen in many HTSC cuprates.

Figure 11: (Color online) Temperature dependence of the resistivity of
Li_(0.17)ZrNCl under external magnetic field for two sets of the field
and current directions, measured using a four-probe contact. The applied
fields range from 0 to 9 T, in the intervals of 1 T.

Figure 12: (Color online) Temperature dependence of the upper critical
field H_(c2) of Li_(0.17)ZrNCl, obtained from magnetoresistance.

Our results show that Hf(Zr)NCl with variable interlayer distance as
well as carrier concentration is suitable for systematic studies of
layered superconductors. In addition, low _H_<2 value of this compound
makes it easier to cover the whole superconducting region in the _H_-_T_
plane, and helps our study of vortex phase diagram.

In Figs. 6 and 7, we have compared the results from the
nitride-chlorides with other layered superconductors. All the arguments
in the previous paragraphs, as well as Fig. 7, give an impression that
2D properties are predominantly important factors of all of these
layered superconductors. Recent _m_SR measurements on Na0.3SCo02-1.3D2O
(Ref. [53]) show that the newly discovered layered cobalt oxide system,
intercalated with H2O, also follows the trend in Fig. 7. These results
suggest that n2D/_m_* may be an important determining factor of _Tc_ in
all of these layered superconducting systems. We note, however, that
comparison among different cuprate systems having various values of
c_(t) indicates that the 3D interlayer coupling plays an important role
in determining _Tc_ in the cuprates. Therefore, we have to be rather
cautious in choosing between 2D and 3D aspects as the dominant factor
for superconductivity.

We also note that the observed results in Fig. 7 show about a factor 2
deviation from the T_(T) line. This feature indicates that a simple
theory for KT transition, whose _Tc_ = T_(T) is unrelated to the
interlayer coupling, is not adequate to explain superconducting
condensation of either the cuprates or the nitride-chloride systems.
Further experimental and theoretical studies are required to determine
the origin of this deviation. Studies of crossover from Bose Einstein to
BCS condensation, in the case of 2D systems, might provide a clue for
understanding this feature.

The absolute values of the penetration depth l, obtained from the _m_SR
and magnetization measurements, show a reasonable agreement. We notice,
however, about 20-30

In Bi2212 cuprate systems, Corson _et al._[54] measured the frequency
dependent superfluid response, and found temperature T_(T) above which
the superfluid density depends on the measuring frequency. The
superfluid density observed at T = T_(T) was consistent with the value
expected in the universal argument of KT. This provides an excellent
system-independent calibration to the superfluid density. The difference
between the superfluid density at T_(T) and at T   0 should correspond
to the distance (in the horizontal direction) of the corresponding data
point in Fig. 7 from the T_(T) line. The _m_SR Bi2212 data point in a
plot as in Fig. 7 lies about a factor 2-3 away from the T_(T) line. This
factor agrees reasonably well with the reduction of the superfluid
density from the T = 0 value to the T = T_(T) value observed by Corson
_et al._[54] in Bi2212 system in a similar doping region. This
satisfactory cross-check for the Bi2212 system indicates that our choice
of the conversion factor between s and l was reasonable, and the
superfluid density derived by _m_SR is very reliable. Of course,
comparisons among _m_SR data for different systems in a relative scale
can be performed without being affected by an ambiguity of their
absolute values of the superfluid density.

We performed _m_SR measurements on three different specimens based on
ZrNCl with Li concentrations 0.15, 0.17, and 0.4, and found that the
results of 2D superfluid density n2D/_m_* for these systems do not show
much difference among one another. This phenomenon could be explained by
two different possibilities: (a) not all the Li atoms donate carriers on
the ZrN planes, and the Li concentration x does not serve as an
indicator of normal-state carrier concentration; or (b) all the Li atoms
donate electrons to the ZrN planes, but only a finite fraction of those
normal-state carriers participate in the superfluid. The situation (b)
is similar to the case of overdoped HTSC cuprates,21,55 where an energy
balance in the condensation process seems to determine the superfluid
density. Further experiments on normal-state transport properties are
required to distinguish between (a) and (b) in the nitride-chloride
systems.

In conclusion, we have synthesized and characterized several different
specimens of intercalated nitride-chloride superconductors, and
performed _m_SR and magnetization measurements. The superconducting
transition temperature _Tc_ and the upper critical field _H__(c2⊥c)
exhibit a nearly linear relation with the 2D superfluid density
n2D/_m_*, while showing almost no dependence on the stacking unit
distance. These features suggest a highly two-dimensional nature of
superconductivity in the nitride-chloride system.

## Acknowledgments

We are grateful to A. R. Moodenbaugh for x-ray rocking curve
measurement, Y. Mawatari for discussion about reversible magnetization,
and H. Stormer for help in resistance measurements. This work was
supported primarily by the National Science and Engineering Initiative
of the National Science Foundation under NSF Grant No. CHE-01-17752. The
work at Columbia was also supported by Grants Nos. NSF-DMR-01-02752 and
NSF-INT-03-14058. The work at Hiroshima University was supported by the
Grant-in-Aid for Scientific Research (B) (Grant No. 14350461) and the
COE Research (Grant No. 13E2002) of the Ministry of Education, Science,
Sports, and Culture of Japan, and by CREST, Japan Society for Science
and Technology (JST). Research at McMaster was supported by NSERC and
CIAR (Quantum Materials Program).

* (4)Also at Correlated Electron Research Center (CERC), AIST, Japan. *
(5)Author to whom correspondence should be addressed. Email address:
tomo@lorentz.phys.columbia.edu * (6)S. Yamanaka, H. Kawaji, K. Hotehama,
and M. Ohashi, Adv. Mater. (Weinheim, Ger.) **8**, 771 (1996). * (7)S.
Yamanaka, K. Hotehama, and H. Kawaji, Nature (London) **392**, 580
(1998). * (8)Y.J. Uemura, Y. Fudamoto, I.M. Gat, M.I. Larkin, G.M. Luke,
J. Merrin, K.M. Kojima, K. Itoh, S. Yamanaka, R.H. Heffner, and D.E.
MacLaughlin, Physica B **289**, 389 (2000). * (9)H. Tou, Y. Maniwa, T.
Koiwasaki, and S. Yamanaka, Phys. Rev. Lett. **86**, 5775 (2001). *
(10)H. Tou, Y. Maniwa, T. Koiwasaki, and S. Yamanaka, Phys. Rev. B
**63**, 020508(R) (2000). * (11)Y.J. Uemura, G.M. Luke, B.J. Sternlieb,
J.H. Brewer, J.F. Carolan, W.N. Hardy, R. Kadono, J.R. Kempton, R.F.
Kiefl, S.R. Kreitzman, P. Mulhern, T.M. Riseman, D.Ll. Williams, B.X.
Yang, S. Uchida, H. Takagi, J. Gopalakrishnan, A.W. Sleight, M.A.
Subramanian, C.L. Chien, M.Z. Cieplak, Gang Xiao, V.Y. Lee, B.W. Statt,
C.E. Stronach, W.J. Kossler, and X.H. Yu, Phys. Rev. Lett. **62**, 2317
(1989). * (12)Y.J. Uemura, L.P. Le, G.M. Luke, B.J. Sternlieb, W.D. Wu,
J.H. Brewer, T.M. Riseman, C.L. Seaman, M.B. Maple, M. Ishikawa, D.G.
Hinks, J.D. Jorgensen, G. Saito, and H. Yamochi, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**66**, 2665 (1991). * (13)Y.J. Uemura, A. Keren, L.P. Le, G.M. Luke,
W.D. Wu, Y. Kubo, T. Manako, Y. Shimakawa, M. Subramanian, J.L. Cobb,
and J.T. Markert, Nature (London) **364**, 605 (1993). * (14)B. Pumpin,
H. Keller, W. Kundig, I.M. Savic, J.W. Schneider, H. Simmer, P.
Zimmermann, E. Kaldis, S. Rusiecki, and C. Rossel, Hyperfine Interact.
**63**, 25 (1990). * (15)C.L. Seaman, J.J. Neumeier, M.B. Maple, L.P.
Le, G.M. Luke, B.J. Sternlieb, Y.J. Uemura, J.H. Brewer, R. Kadono, R.F.
Kiefl, S.R. Krierman, and T.M. Riseman, Phys. Rev. B **42**, 6801
(1990). * (16)J.L. Tallon, C. Bernhard, U. Binninger, A. Hofer, G.V.M.
Williams, E.J. Ansaldo, J.I. Budnick, and Ch. Niedermayer, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **74**, 1008 (1995). * (17)Ch. Niedermayer, C. Bernhard, U.
Binninger, H. Gluckler, J.L. Tallon, E.J. Ansaldo, and J.I. Budnick,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **71**, 1764 (1993). * (18)C. Bernhard, J.L. Tallon,
Th. Blasius, A. Golnik, and Ch. Niedermayer, Phys. Rev. Lett. **86**,
1614 (2001). * (19)Y.J. Uemura, A. Keren, G.M. Luke, L.P. Le, B.J.
Sternlieb, W.D. Wu, J.H. Brewer, R.L. Whetten, S.M. Huang, Sophia Lin,
R.B. Kaner, F. Diederich, S. Donnovan, G. Gruner, and K. Holczer, Nature
(London) **352**, 605 (1991). * (20)Y.J. Uemura, A. Keren, L.P. Le, G.M.
Luke, W.D. Wu, J.S. Tsai, K. Tanigaki, K. Holczer, S. Donovan, and R.L.
Whetten, Physica C **235-240**, 2501 (1994). * (21)L.P. Le, G.M. Luke,
B.J. Sternlieb, W.D. Wu, Y.J. Uemura, J.H. Brewer, T.M. Riseman, C.E.
Stronach, G. Saito, H. Yamochi, H.H. Wang, A.M. Kini, K.D. Carlson, and
J.M. Williams, Phys. Rev. Lett. **68**, 1923 (1992). * (22)Y.J. Uemura,
Solid State Commun. **120**, 347 (2001). * (23)B. Nachumi, A. Keren, K.
Kojima, M. Larkin, G.M. Luke, J. Merrin, O. Tchernyshov, Y.J. Uemura, N.
Ichikawa, M. Goto, and S. Uchida, Phys. Rev. Lett. **77**, 5421
(1996). * (24)A.T. Savici, Y. Fudamoto, I.M. Gat, T. Ito, M.I. Larkin,
Y.J. Uemura, G.M. Luke, K.M. Kojima, Y.S. Lee, M.A. Kastner, R.J.
Birgeneau, and K. Yamada, Phys. Rev. B **66**, 014524 (2002). * (25)K.M.
Kojima, S. Uchida, Y. Fudamoto, I.M. Gat, M.I. Larkin, Y.J. Uemura, and
G.M. Luke, Physica B **326**, 316 (2003). * (26)Y.J. Uemura, Solid State
Commun. **126**, 23 (2003); **126**, 425(E) (2003). * (27)J. Bardeen,
L.N. Cooper, and J.R. Schrieffer, Phys. Rev. **108**, 1175 (1957). *
(28)J.M. Kosterlitz and D.J. Thouless, J. Phys. C **6**, 1181 (1973). *
(29)Y. J. Uemura, in _Proceedings of the International Workshop on
Polarons and Bipolarons in High-T_(c) Superconductors and Related
Materials, Cambridge, UK, 1994_, edited by E. Salje, A. S. Alexandrov,
and Y. Liang (Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, 1995), p.
453-460. * (30)Y. J. Uemura, in _Proceedings of International Symposium/
Workshop on High-T_(c) Superconductivity and the C₆₀ Family, 1994_,
Beijing, edited by H. C. Ren (Gordon and Breach, New York, 1995), p.
113-142. * (31)Y.J. Uemura, Physica C **282-287**, 194 (1997). * (32)P.
Nozieres and S. Schmitt-Rink, J. Low Temp. Phys. **59**, 195 (1985). *
(33)M. Randeria, in _Bose-Einstein Condensation_, edited by A. Griffin,
D. W. Snoke, and S. Stringari (Cambridge University Press, Cambridge,
1995), p. 355-391, and references therein. * (34)V. Emery and S.
Kivelson, Nature (London) **374**, 434 (1995). * (35)Zhidong Hao, J.R.
Clem, M.W. McElfresh, L. Civale, A.P. Malozemoff, and F. Holtzberg,
Phys. Rev. B **43**, 2844 (1991). * (36)M. Ohashi, S. Yamanaka, M.
Sumihara, and M. Hattori, J. Solid State Chem. **75**, 99 (1988). *
(37)M. Ohashi, S. Yamanaka, and M. Hattori, J. Solid State Chem. **77**,
342 (1988). * (38)M. Ohashi, K. Uyeoka, S. Yamanaka, and M. Hattori,
Bull. Chem. Soc. Jpn. **64**, 2814 (1991). * (39)H. Kawaji, K. Hotehama,
and S. Yamanaka, Chem. Mater. **9**, 2127 (1997). * (40)For general
aspects and historical development of μSR, see Hyperfine Interact. **6**
(1979); **8** (1981); **17-19** (1984); **31** (1986); **63-65** (1990);
**85-87** (1994); **104-106** (1997); Physica B **289-290** (2000);
Physcia B **326** (2003). * (41)For a general review of μSR, see, for
example, A. Schenck, _Muon Spin Rotation Spectroscopy_ (Adam Hilger,
Bristol, 1985). * (42)For a recent reviews of μSR studies in topical
subjects, see _Proceedings of the Fifty First Scottish Universities
Summer School in Physics, St. Andrews, 1998_, edited by S. L. Lee, S. H.
Kilcoyne, and R. Cywinski (Institute of Physics Publishing, Bristol,
1999). * (43)G.M. Luke, A. Keren, L.P. Le, W.D. Wu, Y.J. Uemura, D.A.
Bonn, L. Taillefer, and J.D. Garrett, Phys. Rev. Lett. **71**, 1466
(1993). * (44)G.M. Luke, Y. Fudamoto, K.M. Kojima, M.L. Larkin, J.
Merrin, B. Nachumi, Y.J. Uemura, Y. Maeno, Z.Q. Mao, Y. Mori, H.
Nakamura, and M. Sigrist, Nature (London) **394**, 558 (1998). *
(45)W.D. Wu, A. Keren, L.P. Le, B.J. Sternlieb, G.M. Luke, Y.J. Uemura,
P. Dosanjh, and T.M. Riseman, Phys. Rev. B **47**, 8172 (1993). * (46)S.
Lee, in _Muon Science: Muons in Physics, Chemistry, and Ma terials_,
edited by S. H. Lee _et al._ (Institute of Physics Publishing, Bristol,
1999). * [42] J.E. Sonier, J.H. Brewer, and R.F. Kiefl, Rev. Mod. Phys.
**72**, 769 (2002). * [43] W. Barford and J.M.F. Gunn, Physica C
**156**, 515 (1988). * [44] Y.J. Uemura, B.J. Sternlieb, D.E. Cox, V.J.
Emery, A.R. Moodenbaugh, M. Suenaga, J.H. Brewer, J.F. Carolan, W.N.
Hardy, R. Kadono, J.R. Kempton, R.F. Kiefl, S.R. Kreitzman, G.M. Luke,
P. Mulhern, T.M. Riseman, D.L. Williams, B.X. Yang, W.J. Kossler, X.H.
Yu, H.E. Shoene, C.E. Stronach, J. Goparakrishnan, M.A. Subramanian,
A.W. Sleight, H.R. Hart, K.W. Ley, H. Takagi, S. Uchida, Y. Hidaka, T.
Murakami, S. Etemad, P. Barbour, D. Keane, V.Y. Lee, and D.C. Johnston,
J. Phys. (Paris) **49**, 2087 (1988). * [45] P. L. Russo, A. Savici, Y.
J. Uemura, and Y. Ando (unpublished). * [46] D.J. Bishop and J.D. Reppy,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **40**, 1727 (1978). * [47] P.H. Kes, C.J. van der
Beek, M.P. Maley, M.E. McHenry, D.A. Huse, M.J.V. Menken, and A.A.
Menovsky, Phys. Rev. Lett. **67**, 2383 (1991). * [48] U. Welp, S.
Fleshler, W.K. Kwok, R.A. Klemm, V.M. Vinokur, J. Downey, B. Veal, and
G.W. Crabtree, Phys. Rev. Lett. **67**, 3180 (1991). * [49] Z.
Tesanovic, L. Xing, L. Bulaevskii, Q. Li, and M. Suenaga, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **69**, 3563 (1992). * [50] Q. Li, M. Suenaga, L.N. Bulaevskii, T.
Hikata, and K. Sato, Phys. Rev. B **48**, 13 865 (1993). * [51] M. Lang,
F. Steglich, N. Toyota, and T. Sasaki, Phys. Rev. B **49**, 15 227
(1994). * [52] A. Schilling, R. Jin, J.D. Guo, and H.R. Ott, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **71**, 1899 (1993). * [53] Y. J. Uemura, P. L. Russo, A. T.
Savici, C. R. Wiebe, G. J. MacDougall, G. M. Luke, M. Mochizuki, Y.
Yanase, M. Ogata, M. L. Foo, and R. J. Cava (unpublished). * [54] J.
Corson, R. Mallozzi, J. Orenstein, J.N. Eckstein, and I. Bozovic, Nature
(London) **398**, 221 (1999). * [55] Y.J. Uemura, Solid State Commun.
**120**, 347 (2001).
