# Effect of pressure on superconducting Ca-intercalated graphite CaC₆

J. S. Kim, L. Boeri, and R. K. Kremer

Max-Planck-Institut fur Festkorperforschung, Heisenbergstrasse 1, 70569
Stuttgart, Germany

F. S. Razavi

Department of Physics, Brock University, St. Catharines, Ontario, Canada
L2S 3A1

15 September 2006; published 20 December 2006

###### Abstract

The effect of pressure on the superconducting transition temperature
(T_(c)) of the Ca-intercalated graphite compound CaC₆ has been
investigated up to ∼16 kbar. T_(c) is found to increase under pressure
with a large relative ratio ΔT_(c)/T_(c) of ≈0.4

pacs: 10.1103/PhysRevB.74.214513 + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL REVIEW
B **74**, 214513 (2006)

## I Introduction

The discovery of superconductivity in Yb- and Ca-intercalated
graphites,[1, 2] with significantly higher T_(c)’s than found previously
for alkali-metal graphite intercalation compounds (GICs), reinitiated
the debate on the long-standing puzzle of the origin of
superconductivity in GICs.[3] Possible pairing mechanisms under
consideration range from unconventional exciton-or plasmon-mediated
pairing[4] to the more conventional electron-phonon (_e_-ph) coupling
mechanism.[5, 6]

The core of the debate on the origin of superconductivity in the GICs
lies in the so-called _interlayer_ electronic bands which cross the
Fermi level (E_(F)) in addition to the graphite π^(*) bands. Since the
coupling of the π^(*) band electrons to the graphite phonons is not
sufficient to yield the observed high T_(c)’s,[6, 7] the role of the
interlayer bands and their degree of filling is considered to be
essential for superconductivity with increased T_(c)’s.[4] Csanyi _et
al._ proposed that the electrons in the interlayer bands can be
considered as nearly free two-dimensional (2D) electrons propagating
essentially between the graphene layers,[4] and pairing can be mediated
by acoustic plasmons in these 2D metallic slabs.[8] However, there is a
growing body of evidence that the interlayer bands have sufficiently
strong coupling with both in-plane intercalant and out-of-plane graphite
phonon modes to allow for the relatively high T_(c)’s within the scope
of a standard _e_-ph coupling mechanism.[5, 6] This scenario gained some
experimental support from recent penetration depth,[9] specific
heat,[10] tunneling,[11] and Ca isotope effect[12] experiments in CaC₆.

Interestingly, the latter experiments showed a Ca isotope effect with
α_(Ca)=0.5, suggesting a dominant role of Ca-related modes in the
superconducting pairing.[12] This finding, however, is at odds with the
results of _ab initio_ calculations[6] in which isotope exponents
α_(Ca)≈α_(C)≈ 0.25 have been concluded. The fact that the out-of-plane
phonon modes of the host layers cannot be ignored gains substantial
support from recent investigations on other layered compounds, e.g.,
CaAlSi (T_(c)∼ 8 K), where Ca atoms are located in between Al-Si
honeycomb sheets (AlB₂ structure type).[13] Hence, a deeper
understanding of the superconducting pairing, and of the nature and role
of the electronic and vibrational states involved, will provide useful
insight into superconductivity in the GICs as well as other recently
discovered "high-T_(c)" superconductors.

The investigation of the pressure dependence of T_(c) is a key
experiment to test and compare these theoretical predictions. The degree
of filling of the interlayer bands, crucial for the acoustic plasmon
pairing mechanism, depends not only on the charge transfer from the
intercalant, but also on the separation of the graphene sheets.[4] By
applying hydrostatic pressure the graphite layer spacing, and hence the
energy of the interlayer bands, can be continuously tuned without
affecting the chemical composition. On the other hand, a comparison of
the pressure dependence of T_(c) with the results of first-principles
calculations of the electronic and vibrational properties of the GICs
could support or rule out the hypothesis of an _e_-ph-mediated coupling
mechanism.[14]

In this paper, we report the effect of pressure (_P_≈ 16 kbar) on T_(c)
of CaC₆ and compare our results with _ab initio_ calculations of the
electronic and vibrational properties carried out as a function of
pressure. Based on our calculations, we argue that the increase of T_(c)
with pressure can be understood within the scope of _e_-ph coupling as a
consequence of a softening of phonon modes involving Ca in-plane
vibrations, while it is at odds with an acoustic plasmon mechanism. We
also show that there is some discrepancy between the T_(c) measured from
experiment and that predicted by isotropic, harmonic Migdal-Eliashberg
theory, and discuss possible ways to improve the agreement between
experiments and theory.

## II Experiment

CaC₆ samples were prepared as described in detail elsewhere.[2, 10] The
T_(c)’s of three samples were determined from the temperature dependence
of the dc (samples S1 and S2) and of the ac magnetic susceptibility
(sample S3). The variation of T_(c) between our samples is less than
∼0.1 K. All samples show a sharp superconducting transition with a width
ΔT_(c)∼ 0.15 K between 10

At ambient pressure, the onset of the superconducting transition of our
samples is ∼11.4 K, consistent with previous reports.[2] The
superconducting transition is clearly shifted to higher temperatures as
the pressure is raised [see Fig. 1(a)]. Up to 16 kbar there is no
indication of an abrupt change of T_(c) or a narrowing or broadening of
the transition, as frequently observed in other superconducting GICs,
such as, e.g., KHgC₄, KC₈, RbC₈, and ascribed to a pressure-induced
change of the staging or of the intercalant sublattice.[15] No
hysteresis in T_(c) or in the shape of χ(T) was observed between the
data taken with increasing and decreasing pressure. Thus the possible
shear stresses due to solidification of pressure medium do not affect
significantly the superconducting properties of the samples.

The pressure dependence of T_(c) for three samples is shown up to 16
kbar in Fig. 1(b). For all samples, T_(c)_increases_ under pressure
almost linearly with a slope of 0.042−0.048 K/kbar. Depending on the
sample, T_(c) and the ratio dT_(c)/dP vary slightly, but the relative
change (1/T_(c))dT_(c)/dP is the same within error bars for all samples
and amounts to ≈ + 0.4

## III Theory

To gain more insight into the possible coupling mechanism we performed a
detailed density functional perturbation theory[17] (DFPT) study of the
electronic and vibrational properties of CaC₆ and explored the pressure
range up to 500 kbar to investigate whether lattice instabilities occur.
In our calculations we employed ultrasoft pseudopotentials[18] with a
generalized gradient approximation[19] for the exchange-correlation
functional. The eigenfunctions were expanded on a plane-wave basis
set[20] with a cutoff energy of 30 and 300 Ry for the wavefunctions and
the charge density, respectively. We used an (8)[3] Monkhorst-Pack grid
and a 0.06 Ry Methfessel-Paxton smearing, which led to convergence of
better than 0.1 mRy for the total and 5 cm⁻¹ for the Γ-point
frequencies. Phonon dispersion curves were obtained by a Fourier
interpolation of the dynamical matrices calculated on a 4³ grid in q
space for P=0, 50, and 100 kbar, and a 2³ grid elsewhere.

The electronic structure and phonon dispersion at ambient pressure are
in excellent agreement with previous results.[6] The equation of state
calculations yielded equilibrium lattice constants (a_(rh)=5.16 a.u.,
rhombohedral angle θ=49.90^(∘)) in very good agreement with the
experimental data (a_(rh) =5.17 a.u., θ=49.55^(∘)), and a bulk modulus
(B₀=103 GPa) larger than that of pure graphite, but close to that of
other GICs.[15] The compressibility remains anisotropic (k_(c)/k_(a)≈9)
but is significantly reduced as compared to nonintercalated graphite
[see Fig. 2(b)].

First of all, we notice that, in general, the coupling strength between
electrons and any bosonic modes can be approximated by
λ∝N(E_(F))⟨I²⟩/⟨ω²⟩, where N(E_(F)) is the electronic density of states
at E_(F), ⟨I²⟩ is the electron-boson matrix element, and ⟨ω²⟩ is the
square averaged frequency for the relevant bosonic modes. Our
calculations show that N(E_(F))_decreases_ with increasing pressure
because the interlayer band is emptied and the π⁺ bandwidth increases
[see Fig. 2(c)]. In the following, we therefore investigate the
alternative option to enhance λ (and T_(c)) by a reduction of the
frequency of the relevant bosonic modes.

First, we consider electron-phonon coupling. Although unusual, the
softening of a particular phonon mode, usually an indication of an
incipient lattice instability, can induce a pressure increase in
T_(c).[21] The calculated phonon modes for CaC₆ behave differently as a
function of pressure depending on their eigenvector as seen, e.g., in
the case of the Γ-point phonons [see Fig. 2(a)]: whereas the C in-plane
modes (ω> 100 meV) and the Ca out-of-plane modes (ω∼ 30 meV) harden with
pressure, the C out-of-plane modes (50<

Figure 1: (Color online) (a) Temperature dependence of the
susceptibility for CaC₆ (S1) at different pressures. The numbers next to
the data and in the parentheses correspond to the applied pressure
(kbar) and the sequential order of the measurement runs, respectively.
T_(c) is determined as the temperature where the extrapolation of the
steepest slope of χ(T) intersects the extrapolation of the normal state
χ(T) to lower temperatures. (b) Pressure dependence of T_(c) for three
CaC₆ samples. The filled and open symbols are data taken at increasing
and decreasing pressure, respectively. The dashed lines are guides to
the eyes. The inset shows the relative change of T_(c) with pressure.

< 100 meV) are almost unaffected. On the other hand, the lowest-lying
optical mode at Γ, and an acoustical mode at X (Fig. 4), both mainly
involving in-plane Ca vibrations, are considerably softened with
pressure. At higher pressures (P≈ 120 kbar), these modes drive the
system unstable. Frozen-phonon calculations reveal that this mode
couples to both the interlayer and the π^(*) bands, and that the
mechanism which causes its instability is similar to that giving rise to
the anharmonicity of the E_(2g) mode in MgB₂[22]

To estimate the pressure dependence of the partial λ_(Ca) associated
with the Ca in-plane vibrations, we employ a simple approximation based
on the Hopfield formula: λ_(i) =N(E_(F))⟨I_(i)²⟩/M_(i)⟨o_(i)²⟩, where
⟨I_(i)²⟩ is the e-ph matrix element, M_(i) is the phonon mass, and
⟨o_(i)²⟩ is the square averaged phonon frequency. Assuming that
⟨I_(Ca)²⟩ is constant and ⟨o_(Ca)²⟩ can be approximated by the square of
the lowest-lying optical phonon frequency at Γ, we find a significant
increase of λ_(Ca) by 20

In contrast, it appears that the other proposed pairing mechanism,
namely, acoustic-plasmon-mediated pairing in the interlayer bands,[4,
23] can hardly be reconciled with the observed pressure dependence of
T_(c). The basic assumption of this model is the existence of 2D
metallic layers sandwiched by dielectric layers. If this is the case,
due to the significant anisotropy of the Fermi velocity and incomplete
screening, the plasmon dispersion develops a _low-energy_ acoustic
branch $\Omega_{pl}({\bf q})$ ∼ q, which can provide additional pairing
routes for superconductivity.[8]

However, the electronic band structure (see Ref. [6]) and the
corresponding Fermi surface (FS) plot (see Fig. 3) reveal that the
interlayer bands are 3D in character. Additionally, there is a
substantial charge transfer to the graphite π^(*) states. Both findings
question the basic assumptions of this model already at ambient
pressure. The anisotropy of the Fermi velocity emerges almost
exclusively from the graphite π^(*) bands, which display a warped
cylindrical FS parallel to the c axis. With pressure, the dispersion of
the π^(*) bands along the c axis increases and the 3D character of the
electronic structure grows. When the system becomes more 3D, a gap in
the acoustic plasmon dispersion is developed,[8] and the conventional
plasmon dispersion, $\Omega_{pl}({\bf q})$ =Ω_(pl)+${\cal O}(q^{2})$
(Ω_(pl)≫k_(B)T_(c)) is fully recovered. Thus, even if any coupling due
to acoustic plasmons is assumed, its strength will decrease with
increasing pressure, adverse to our experimental observation.

Finally, we check whether the increase of λ due to the phonon softening
is compatible with the observed increase of T_(c) under pressure by
calculating the e-ph spectral function α²F(ω) and the
frequency-dependent e-ph coupling parameter λ(ω) =2∫₀^(ω)α²F(Ω)Ω⁻¹dΩ.
Instead of the maximum experimental pressure (P ≈ 16 kbar), we choose to
run these calculations at two higher pressures, P = 50 and 100 kbar. We
notice, in fact, that the experimental variation of T_(c) up to

Figure 3: (Color online) Cross section of the Fermi surface of CaC₆ at
three different pressures (P = 0, 100, and 250 kbar), in a plane
orthogonal (a) and parallel (b) to the c axis. The spherical, 3D Fermi
surface centered around Γ is due to the interlayer band, while the 2D
π^(*) bands form a distorted cylinder along the c axis. The position of
the special ${\bf k}$ points in this plot are relative to the P = 0
lattice constants.

Figure 2: (Color online) _Ab initio_ pressure dependence of selected
structural, electronic, and vibrational properties of CaC₆, (a)
Frequencies of the Γ- (open symbols) and X- (solid symbols) point
phonons. Imaginary frequencies are shown as negative. The labels
indicate the atom giving the dominant contribution to the phonon
eigenvector. (b) Variation of the in- and out-of-plane lattice constants
and of the relative ratio. (c) N(E_(F)) and position of the bottom of
the interlayer bands with respect to E_(F).

_P_ 16 kbar is too small to be resolved by the accuracy of DFT
calculations. Therefore, we choose two pressures where the calculated
frequencies are all real (i.e., the system is structurally stable), and
where our approximated Hopfield equation predicts a sizable increase in
l; the second point (_P_ = 100 kbar) is chosen close to the predicted
structural transition, in order to get an estimate of the maximum
attainable _T_c in this system.

The _e_-ph spectral function α²F(ω) displays three peaks well separated
in energy, corresponding to different phonon eigenvectors. The largest
contribution to the total _e_-ph coupling comes from the in-plane Ca
phonons, which increases λ_(Ca)=0.42 to λ_(Ca)=0.62(0.44) at P = 100(50)
kbar. The second largest contribution from the C out-of-plane vibrations
remains essentially unchanged, since the modes at  70 meV are
insensitive to the pressure. The total l increases from 0.84 at P = 0 to
0.86 at P = 50 kbar and 1.03 at P = 100 kbar, which results entirely
from the soft Ca in-plane modes.

We estimate the effect of pressure on _T_c using the McMillan formula
[24]

$$T_{c} = \frac{\langle\omega_{ln}\rangle}{1.2}\exp\left( \frac{- 1.04(1 + \lambda)}{\lambda - (1 + 0.62\lambda)\mu^{\ast}} \right),$$

where ⟨ω_(ln)⟩ is the logarithmic averaged phonon frequency and μ^(*) is
the Coulomb pseudopotential. Inserting the calculated ⟨ω_(ln)⟩ (305 K at
P = 0, 300 K at P = 50 kbar, and 230 K at P = 100 kbar) and setting
μ^(*)=0.145, which reproduces the experimental _T_c at zero pressure, we
estimate that _T_c should increase from 11.4 K to 13.5 (12) K from P = 0
to P = 100 (50) kbar. Therefore the effect of the phonon softening for
the in-plane Ca vibration is strong enough to overcome those of the
decrease of the density of states and ⟨ω_(ln)⟩, and as a result, _T_c
increases with pressure. We also predict that the phonon softening will
drive the system unstable for P ≥ 120 kbar, thus imposing a theoretical
limit to the maximum attainable _T_c.

## IV Discussions

In Fig. 5, we plot the experimentally measured _T_c from our work and
also from Ref. [25], together with the calculated _T_c as a function of
pressure. Gauzzi _et al._[25] recently observed a transition of _T_c at
 80 kbar, accompanied by lattice softening, thus confirming our
theoretical prediction of an upper bound on _T_c due to lattice
instability. However, we notice that, even though the positive pressure
dependence is well reproduced by our _ab initio_ calculations, there are
still some discrepancies between experiment and theory, which we shall
now discuss in detail.

First of all, while experimentally the (structural) transition is found
at 80 kbar, we predicted it to take place at  120 kbar. It is well known
that the structural transition pressure for the GICs is very sensitive
to several experimental details. For example, the previous pressure
experiments on first-stage KC8 showed large hysteresis of the transition
pressure as well as significant time dependence of the order of days or
weeks. [26] In particular, we note that in the GICs _T_c can show a
strong anomaly even before a structural transition takes place. For
example, in KC8, an intercalant structural transition occurs at  14
kbar, [27] but a sudden increase of _T_c is observed already at  4 kbar.
[28] On the other hand, this kind of error is also within the accuracy
of DFT. While it could possibly be reduced by a more careful convergence
of the _X_-point frequency with respect to **k**-point sampling, there

Figure 4: (Color online) (a) Phonon frequencies and (b) density of
states of CaC6 for P = 0, 50, and 100 kbar, along selected directions in
the rhombohedral unit cell; the line Γ − X is contained in the graphene
planes, while L − Γ is orthogonal to it. (c) Eliashberg function α²F(Ω)
and frequency-dependent electron-phonon coupling
λ(ω) = 2J₀^(∞)a²F(Ω)/ΩdΩ.

Figure 5: (Color online) The calculated _T_c (open squares) as a
function of pressure together with the measured _T_c in this work (as in
Fig. 2) as well as that from Ref. [25]. The dashed line indicates the
point at which _ab initio_ calculations predict a dynamical instability
of the lowest _X_-point phonon. The inset shows a pressure dependence of
the calculated _e_-ph coupling constant l and the logarithmic averaged
phonon frequency ⟨ω_(ln)⟩. Both quantities have a strong nonlinear
behavior.

would always be an uncertainty of 10-20 kbar related to the choice of
the exchange and correlation functional or of the basis set.[29]
However, even if DFT can fail to predict the exact transition pressure,
it is usually much more accurate in describing structural _trends_ as a
function of pressure. Therefore, it is quite surprising to notice that
the behavior of T_(c) with pressure predicted by theory deviates from
that measured experimentally: in particular, theory predicts a much
slower increase in T_(c) (≃0.02 K/kbar) than found in experiment, and a
slightly nonlinear behavior, with a stronger increase in T_(c) at higher
pressures.

Such discrepancies indicate that the harmonic, isotropic _e_-ph coupling
theory may not be sufficient to describe quantitatively the behavior of
CaC6 and other GICs. This confirms what was shown by a very recent,
puzzling experiments on the isotope effect,[12] which reported a
surprisingly high isotope exponent for Ca, α(Ca) = 0.5, much higher than
the value α(Ca) = 0.24 predicted by theory.[6] Assuming a non-trivial
contribution from the C phonon modes, the total isotope exponent will
exceed the BCS value of 0.5. Also, discrepancies between the isotropic,
harmonic Migdal-Eliashberg theory and experiment are found in the
specific heat and the upper critical fields.[30] Further theoretical and
experimental works are highly desirable in this direction.

The first possibility to improve the agreement between theory and
experiment would be taking into account anharmonic effects or nonlinear
coupling of the in-plane Ca phonon modes.[30] In graphite intercalation
compounds, the vibrational modes associated with the intercalant are
extremely soft, and transitions to different in-plane sublattices as
well as staging are frequently observed,[15, 27] which indicates that
these modes are strongly anharmonic.

The second approximation which may not be justified, in the present
case, is that of an isotropic electron-phonon coupling. As we have
previously discussed, the Fermi surface of CaC6 is highly anisotropic
and is formed by two bands, which have very different electronic origins
(π^(*) and interlayer), and are hence coupled to different phonon modes.
Therefore, different sheets of the Fermi surface would give very
different contributions to the total electron-phonon coupling, possibly
giving rise to a smeared multigap superconductivity.[31]

Finally, we would like to compare our results with a very recent _ab
initio_ calculations.[29] Here the authors study, using the same
code,[20] but different pseudopotentials, the behavior of CaC6 as a
function of pressure. Similarly to us, they find a structural transition
driven from the softening of the X-point phonon, at some pressure
between 70 and 100 kbar; thus lower than ours and close to the
experimental value. Between 0 and 50 kbar, they find an increase in λ of
only 0.015, and estimate an increase in T_(c) of ∼0.3 K; they do not
calculate the T_(c) at any other pressure besides 0 and 50 kbar, so it
is not possible to compare directly the pressure behavior of the two
sets of calculations, but the overall qualitative picture seems to be
the same; the numerical differences in the transition pressure and λ are
probably due to the use of different pseudopotentials and k-point
sampling. To explain the difference between theory and experiment, the
authors of this paper propose still another possibility, that a
continuous staging transition takes place under pressure. This is of
course a possibility which should be taken into account, but a
definitive answer in this sense could come only from x-ray or neutron
diffraction measurements under pressure.

In conclusion, we presented measurements and _ab initio_ calculations of
the pressure dependence of T_(c) in CaC6. We demonstrated that the
positive pressure dependence of T_(c) can be understood within an _e_-ph
scenario due to softening of the in-plane Ca phonon modes, while it
appears not to reconcile with the acoustic plasmon mechanism. In view of
our experimental findings, we also discuss which effects beyond the
isotropic, harmonic Migdal-Eliashberg theory would have to be taken into
account to obtain a full quantitative and qualitative agreement between
theory and experiments in CaC6, and possibly other graphite
intercalation compounds.

###### Acknowledgements.

The authors acknowledge useful discussion with A. Simon, O. K. Andersen,
G. B. Bachelet, and M. Giantomassi, and thank E. Brucher and S. Hohn for
experimental assistance.

## References

* [1] T. E. Weller, M. Ellerby, S. S. Saxena, R. P. Smith, and N. T.
Skipper, Nat. Phys. **1**, 39 (2005). * [2] N. Emery, C. Herold, M.
d’Astuto, V. Garcia, C. Bellin, J. F. Marche, P. Lagrange, and G.
Loupias, Phys. Rev. Lett. **95**, 087003 (2005). * [3] M. S. Dresselhaus
and G. Dresselhaus, Adv. Phys. **30**, 139 (1981). * [4] G. Csanyi, P.
B. Littlewood, A. H. Nevidomskyy, C. J. Pickard, and B. D. Simons, Nat.
Mater. **1**, 42 (2005). * [5] I. I. Mazin, Phys. Rev. Lett. **95**,
227001 (2005). * [6] M. Calandra and F. Mauri, Phys. Rev. Lett. **95**,
237002 (2005). * [7] S. Piscanec, M. Lazzeri, F. Mauri, A. C. Ferrari,
and J. Robertson, Phys. Rev. Lett. **93**, 185503 (2004). * [8] A. Bill,
H. Morawitz, and V. Z. Kresin, Phys. Rev. B **68**, 144519 (2003). * [9]
G. Lamura, M. Aurino, G. Cifariello, E. Di Gennaro, A. Andreone, N.
Emery, C. Herold, J.-F. Mareche, and P. Lagrange, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**96**, 107008 (2006). * [10] J. S. Kim, R. K. Kremer, L. Boeri, and F.
S. Razavi, Phys. Rev. Lett. **96**, 217002 (2006). * [11] N. Bergeal, V.
Dubost, Y. Noat, W. Sacks, D. Roditchev, N. Emery, C. Herold, J.-F.
Mareche, P. Lagrange, and G. Loupias, Phys. Rev. Lett. **97**, 077003
(2006). * [12] D. G. Hinks, D. Rosenmann, H. Claus, M. S. Bailey, and J.
D. Jorgensen, cond-mat/0604642 (unpublished). * [13] I. I. Mazin and D.
A. Papaconstantopoulos, Phys. Rev. B **69**, 180512(R) (2004); M.
Giantomassi, L. Boeri, and G. B. Bachelet, _ibid._ **72**, 224512
(2005). * [14] S. Y. Savrasov and D. Y. Savrasov, Phys. Rev. B **54**,
16487 (1996).

* [15] R. Clarke and C. Uher, Adv. Phys. **33**, 469 (1984). * [16] A
similar pressure dependence has also been observed in YbC₆. [R. P.
Smith, T. E. Weller, A. F. Kusmartseva, N. T. Skipper, M. Ellerby, and
S. S. Saxena, Physica B **378**, 892 (2006.)] * [17] W. Kohn and L. J.
Sham, Phys. Rev. **140**, A1133 (1965); P. Hohenberg and W. Kohn, Phys.
Rev. **136**, B864 (1964); S. Baroni, S. de Gironcoli, A. Dal Corso, and
P. Giannozzi, Rev. Mod. Phys. **73**, 515 (2001). * [18] D. Vanderbilt,
Phys. Rev. B **41**, R7892 (1990). * [19] J. P. Perdew, K. Burke, and M.
Ernzerhof, Phys. Rev. Lett. **78**, 1396(E) (1997). * [20] S. Baroni _et
al._, URL http://www.pwscf.org * [21] For example, in V₃Si [C. W. Chu
and L. R. Testardi, Phys. Rev. Lett. **32**, 766 (1974)], CaAlSi [B.
Lorenz, J. Cmaidalka, R. L. Meng, and C. W. Chu, Phys. Rev. B **68**,
014512 (2003)], and FCC Li [Deepa Kasinathan, J. Kunes, A. Lazicki, H.
Rosner, C. S. Yoo, R. T. Scalettar, and W. E. Pickett, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**96**, 047004 (2006); G. Profeta, C. Franchini, N. N. Lathiotakis, A.
Floris, A. Sanna, M. A. L. Marques, M. Luders, S. Massidda, E. K. U.
Gross, and A. Continenza, _ibid._**96**, 047003 (2006)]. * [22] L.
Boeri, G. B. Bachelet, E. Cappelluti, and L. Pietronero Phys. Rev. B
**65**, 214501 (2002). * [23] R. P. Smith, A. Kusmartseva, Y. T. C. Ko,
S. S. Saxena, A. Akrap, L. Forro, M. Laad, T. E. Weller, M. Ellerby, and
N. T. Skipper, Phys. Rev. B **74**, 024505 (2006). * [24] W. L.
McMillan, Phys. Rev. **167**, 331 (1968). * [25] A. Gauzzi, S.
Takashima, N. Takeshita, C. Terakura, H. Takagi, N. Emery, C. Herold, P.
Lagrange, and G. Loupias, cond-mat/0603443 (unpublished). * [26] J. M.
Bloch, H. Katz, D. Moses, V. B. Cajipe, and J. E. Fischer, Phys. Rev. B
**31**, 6785 (1985). * [27] C. D. Fuerst, J. E. Fischer, J. D. Axe, J.
B. Hastings, and D. B. McWhan, Phys. Rev. Lett. **50**, 357 (1983). *
[28] L. E. DeLong, V. Yeh, V. Tondiglia, P. C. Eklund, S. E. Lambert,
and M. B. Maple, Phys. Rev. B **26**, 6315 (1982). * [29] M. Calandra
and F. Mauri, Phys. Rev. B **74**, 094507 (2006). * [30] I. I. Mazin, L.
Boeri, O. V. Dolgov, A. A. Golubov, G. B. Bachelet, M. Giantomassi, and
O. K. Andersen, cond-mat/0606404 (unpublished). * [31] Sandro Massidda
(private communication).
