# NMR evidence for field-induced ferromagnetism in (Li0.8 Fe0.2)OHFeSe
superconductor

Y. P. Wu

Wutao@ustc.edu.cn Hefei National Laboratory for Physical Science at
Microscale and Department of Physics, University of Science and
Technology of China, Hefei, Anhui 230026, People’s Republic of China Key
Laboratory of Strongly Coupled Quantum Matter Physics, University of
Science and Technology of China, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Hefei
230026, People’s Republic of China

D. Zhao

Hefei National Laboratory for Physical Science at Microscale and
Department of Physics, University of Science and Technology of China,
Hefei, Anhui 230026, People’s Republic of China

X. R. Lian

Key Laboratory of Strongly Coupled Quantum Matter Physics, University of
Science and Technology of China, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Hefei
230026, People’s Republic of China School for Gifted Young, University
of Science and Technology of China, Hefei, Anhui 230026, People’s
Republic of China

X. F. Lu

Hefei National Laboratory for Physical Science at Microscale and
Department of Physics, University of Science and Technology of China,
Hefei, Anhui 230026, People’s Republic of China Collaborative Innovation
Center of Advanced Microstructures, Nanjing University, Nanjing 210093,
People’s Republic of China

N. Z. Wang

Hefei National Laboratory for Physical Science at Microscale and
Department of Physics, University of Science and Technology of China,
Hefei, Anhui 230026, People’s Republic of China Collaborative Innovation
Center of Advanced Microstructures, Nanjing University, Nanjing 210093,
People’s Republic of China

X. G. Luo

Hefei National Laboratory for Physical Science at Microscale and
Department of Physics, University of Science and Technology of China,
Hefei, Anhui 230026, People’s Republic of China Collaborative Innovation
Center of Advanced Microstructures, Nanjing University, Nanjing 210093,
People’s Republic of China

X. H. Chen

Hefei National Laboratory for Physical Science at Microscale and
Department of Physics, University of Science and Technology of China,
Hefei, Anhui 230026, People’s Republic of China Collaborative Innovation
Center of Advanced Microstructures, Nanjing University, Nanjing 210093,
People’s Republic of China 22 September 20142015107

###### Abstract

We report on ⁷¹Li and ⁷⁷Se nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) measurements
in the newly discovered iron-based superconductor (Li0.8 Fe0.2)OHFeSe.
Both remarkable change in spectrum and divergence of spin-spin
relaxation (T₂) are observed with decreasing temperature, suggesting a
static magnetic ordering in this material. Moreover, the broadened ⁷¹Li
spectrum also shows a characteristic three-peak structure. Comparison of
linewidth between ⁷¹Li and ⁷⁷Se spectra indicates that there is a
ferromagnetic component along the external field direction and it
happens on Fe sites in the (Li0.8 Fe0.2)OH layer rather than the FeSe
layer, which is also responsible for the three-peak structure of the
⁷¹Li spectrum with (Li0.8 Fe0.2) random occupation. The field-dependent
spectrum and T₂ suggest that the above ferromagnetic component is
induced by external magnetic field. Our present results indicate that
the superconductivity in (Li0.8 Fe0.2)OHFeSe is very robust against the
observed field-induced ferromagnetism and both of them could coexist
under external magnetic field.

pacs: 10.1103/PhysRevB.91.125107 + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL REVIEW
B **91**, 125107 (2015)

Since the discovery of high-T_(c) superconductivity in layered
iron-based superconductors [1, 2, 3, 4], many iron pnictide and selenide
superconductors have been found and attracted wide attention [5, 6, 7,
8, 9]. All of them share a common FeX (X = As and Se) layered structure
unit. FeSe possesses the so-called "11" structure which is the simplest
structure among the iron-based superconductors. Although the T_(c) of
bulk FeSe is only 8.0 K [7], one-unit-cell FeSe thin film on SrTiO₃
substrate could achieve the highest superconducting transition
temperature (T_(c)) in iron-based superconductors with T_(c)∼ 65 K [6,
10, 11]. In recent years, many high-T_(c) FeSe-derived superconductors
have also been found, such as A_(x) Fe2-_(x) Se₂ (A = K, Rb, Cs) and
Li_(x)(NH2)_(x)(NH3)_(1 − y) Fe2 Se2 [12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17]. However,
FeSe-derived superconductors are still very rare compared to FeAs-based
superconductors. Very recently, Lu _et al._ reported a new type of
FeSe-derived superconductor (Li0.8 Fe0.2)OHFeSe with T_(c)∼ 43 K [18,
19]. This offers a new material platform to study the underlying
mechanism of superconductivity in FeSe-derived superconductors. Besides
discovering superconductivity, bulk magnetization and specific heat
measurements also indicate a possible magnetic order in (Li0.8
Fe0.2)OHFeSe below T_(m)∼ 8.5 K [19]. Moreover, the recent
first-principles calculation suggests that a novel block-checkerboard
antiferromagnetism (AFM) state instead of collinear stripe AFM state may
be a universal ground state for FeSe-derived superconductors, including
(Li0.8 Fe0.2)OHFeSe [20]. How to understand the origin of magnetism in
(Li0.8 Fe0.2)OHFeSe becomes a central issue.

In this paper, we perform ⁷¹Li (92.5

A polycrystalline sample of Li0.8 Fe0.2OHFeSe is synthesized by the
hydrothermal reaction method with T_(c)∼ 34 K [18].The polycrystalline
sample is ground and pressed into pellets to perform NMR measurement.
All NMR measurements are carried out by using a commercial
phase-coherent pulsed spectrometer from Thamway Company Ltd. ⁷¹Li and
⁷⁷Se NMR spectra are obtained by integrating the spin echo intensity by
sweeping NMR frequency at a fixed magnetic field of 10 T and 11 T,
respectively. The spin-spin relaxation T₂ is obtained by fitting the
spin echo intensity with I(τ) = I(0)exp (−2τ/T₂), where τ is the time
separation between π/2 and π pulses. The magnetization measurements are
carried out by commercial SQUID-MPMS.

First, we determine T_(c) under external magnetic field by measuring the
temperature-dependent characteristic frequency of the circuit in an NMR
probe. The initial frequency f0 is tuned to 165.5 MHz. As shown in Fig.
1(a), the temperature-dependent characteristic frequency shows a clear
transition below T_(c) owing to superconductivity. The Δf is obtained by
subtracting nonsuperconducting background. In this way, we could obtain
the H-T_(c) phase diagram based on the data in Fig. 1(a). As shown in
Fig. 1(b), the onset temperature of the superconducting transition is
used to define T_(c). We find that the superconductivity in (Li0.8
Fe0.2)OHFeSe is very robust under high magnetic field. The T_(c) under
zero field is determined to be about 34 K for the studied sample.

The crystal structure of (Li0.8 Fe0.2)OHFeSe is shown in the inset of
Fig. 2 [19, 21]. ⁷¹Li and ⁷⁷Se nuclei sit in different layers,
respectively. Such structural feature could be used to clarify spatial
distribution of magnetism in this material. Although ⁷⁷Se NMR signal is
not good for measurement because of the low abundance (7.5

As shown in Fig. 3, the temperature-dependent ⁷Li spectrum shows a
distinct broad feature as temperature decreases below 20 K. The
high-temperature ⁷Li spectrum is symmetric around zero internal field,
which corresponds to a paramagnetic normal state. Since ⁷Li has nuclear
spin I = 3/2 and is located in a non-cubic-symmetry environment, the
corresponding electric field gradient (EFG) tensor and Knight shift
tensor should give anisotropic NMR spectra. Although a polycrystalline
sample is used here, there is no observable anisotropic effect in the
present spectrum. This means that the anisotropic effect is masked by
broadening effect of linewidth. This would simplify our discussion
below. As the temperature decreases below 20 K, there is an additional
spectrum weight that appears on the positive internal field side but not
for the negative side. This change turns the whole spectrum shape into a
three-peak structure with different positive internal field shift for
each peak. This phenomenon indicates that a static magnetic ordering
happens and creates different internal fields on ⁷Li sites. We mark the
three peaks by Li(0), Li(1), and Li(2) as shown in Fig. 3(b). In order
to explain these different ⁷Li sites, we consider a ferromagnetic
component along the external field direction on each Fe site with local
magnetic moment m₀ in the (Li_(0.8) Fe_(0.2))OH layer. In general, the
internal field at nonmagnetic irons could contain two kinds of
contribution through the transferred hyperfine coupling and dipolar
coupling to magnetic irons. It could be expressed as
$\vec{H}_{\rm loc}=\sum_{j}~{}A_{hf}\vec{m}_{j}+\sum_{j}~{}\{\frac{3(\vec{m}_{ j}\cdot\vec{r}_{j})}{\vec{r}_{j}^{\prime}}-\frac{\vec{m}_{j}}{\vec{r}_{j}^{ \prime}}\}$,
where A_(hf) is the transferred hyperfine coupling constant, m⃗_(j) is
the magnetic moment at the jth Fe site, and r⃗_(j) is the vector
connecting the Li site to the jth Fe site. We find that only considering
the dipolar term cannot reproduce the observed internal field
distribution, especially for the three-peak structure. Therefore, we
suggest that the transferred hyperfine coupling to the
nearest-neighboring (NN) Fe site in the (Li_(0.8) Fe_(0.2))OH layer
should be responsible for such three-peak structure through the Fe-O-Li
orbital mixing, which gives a positive internal field on Li sites.
Because of the random distribution of Li and Fe ions in the (Li_(0.8)
Fe_(0.2))OH layer, we assume the Li(0), Li(1), and

Figure 1: (Color online) (a) Temperature-dependent relative resonance
frequency of the NMR circuit [Δf(MHz)] under different external magnetic
field, which is obtained by subtracting by normal-state background. (b)
H-T_(c) phase diagram of (Li_(0.8) Fe_(0.2))OHFeSe; T_(c) is defined as
the onset temperature of superconducting transition.

Figure 2: (Color online) ⁷Li and ⁷⁷Se NMR spectra at 5.5 K under
external magnetic field H₀ = 11 T and 10 T, respectively. The inset
shows the crystalline structure of (Li_(0.8) Fe_(0.2))OHFeSe determined
by neutron scattering [19, 21].

Li(2) sites correspond to Li sites with 0, 1, and 2 NN Fe ions. In this
case, the internal field H(i) for different Li sites should be equal to
A_(hf) × i × m₀ (i = 0, 1, 2), which is quite consistent with our
observed results. Considering 20

In order to further understand the field-induced ferromagnetic behavior,
the temperature-dependent T₂ of ⁷Li is also studied. T₂ measurement is
carried out on the central frequency of Li(0) sites under H = 5.2 and 10
T, respectively. As shown in Fig. 5, temperature-dependent T₂ shows a
temperature-independent behavior above 20 K and becomes divergent at the
low-temperature region, where the three-peak structure appears in the
spectrum. Such divergence of T₂ is ascribed to the appearance of static
magnetic ordering at low temperature. As the external magnetic field
decreases, the above divergence becomes weaker, which is consistent with
a field-induced magnetism. We also tried to measure spin-lattice
relaxation (T₁) for ⁷Li nuclei. However, the T₁ is very short (<1 ms) in
the whole temperature range.

Figure 4: (Color online) (a) Field-dependent ’Li spectra at T = 5.5 K.
The red dashed lines show the shift of Li(0), Li(1), and Li(2) sites
with decreasing magnetic field. (b) Relation between bulk magnetization
and local magnetization. The M-H curve at 5 K is shown by black circles.
The high-field part of the M-H curve (>5 T) as shown by red dashed line
is obtained by extrapolating the low-field part with Brillouin function
M = g J μ_(B) B_(J)(x), where B_(J)(x) is Brillouin function and
$x=\frac{g\,\mu_{B}\,x}{k_{B}T}\,\mu_{0}H$. The Brillouin function gives
a good fitting for magnetization data above 2 T and starts to deviate
below 2 T due to superconducting signal. Red circles are the internal
fields at Li sites transferred by each NN Fe ion under H = 5.2 T and 10
T.

Figure 3: (Color online) (a) Temperature-dependent ⁷Li spectra under
external magnetic field H = 10 T. The three peaks appearing at 5.5 K are
marked by Li(0), Li(1), and Li(2), respectively. The red solid line in
5.5 K spectrum is fitted by three Gaussian peaks with fixed area ratio
(details in the main text). The inset plot shows temperature dependence
of the full width at the half maximum (FWHM) of the corresponding ⁷Li
spectra. (b) Three possible configurations for Li sites: Li(0), Li(1),
and Li(2). Fe, Li, and O atoms are shown with green, gray, and red
colors, respectively.

In the crystalline structure as shown in Fig. 2, Li and Fe irons
randomly occupy the same sites in the (Li0.8 Fe0.2)OH layer and only Fe
ions are magnetic. In this case, the (Li0.8 Fe0.2)OH layer could be
treated as a diluted magnetic lattice. In a diluted magnetic system, the
effective magnetic interaction between magnetic atoms is much reduced
compared to systems without magnetic dilution. The estimated transferred
hyperfine coupling between nearest-neighboring Li and Fe irons from our
NMR result is quite small, which supports a much weaker magnetic
interaction between magnetic Fe ions in the (Li0.8 Fe0.2)OH layer. On
the other hand, the magnetic coupling between neighboring (Li0.8
Fe0.2)OH layers should be also very important for the magnetism at Fe
sites in the (Li0.8 Fe0.2)OH layer. Such interlayer coupling is mediated
by the FeSe layer and would be also very weak considering the large
distance between neighboring (Li0.8 Fe0.2)OH layers. In previous
specific heat measurements, a peak below 8.5 K was observed under zero
field [19]. Furthermore, the peak temperature was found to be
field-independent and this was ascribed to the existence of
antiferromagnetism at zero field [19]. Considering that both interlayer
and intralayer magnetic couplings between Fe ions in (Li0.8 Fe0.2)OH
layers are very weak, the above antiferromagnetism at zero field would
be very fragile under external magnetic field. Under strong external
magnetic field, such antiferromagnetism could be easily altered and a
ferromagnetic component along field direction is also expected. Our
present NMR results under strong magnetic field indicate that the
antiferromagnetism at zero field is indeed very fragile and a
field-induced ferromagnetic component appears with external magnetic
field which is also consistent with previous specific heat results [19].
Similar field-induced ferromagnetism is also observed in EuFe2 As2 [24].
Although a novel block-checkerboard AFM state has been proposed to be a
ground state for FeSe-derived superconductors [20], we did not find any
trace of such a phase in the present (Li0.8 Fe0.2)OHFeSe superconductor.
Considering the high-field superconducting transition observed in Fig.
1, we propose that superconductivity in the FeSe layer is very robust
against the above field-induced ferromagnetism in the (Li0.8 Fe0.2)OH
layer and both of them could coexist under external magnetic field for
this newly discovered FeSe-derived superconductor. Although there is a
field-induced ferromagnetism under external magnetic field,
superconductivity coexists with antiferromagnetism at zero field in
(Li0.8 Fe0.2)OHFeSe. How to understand the interplay between
superconductivity and magnetism in this FeSe-derived superconductor
needs more investigations. This would be helpful to understand the role
of magnetism on the mechanism of high-Tc superconductivity.

To summarize, we perform a site-selective NMR experiment on
polycrystalline (Li0.8 Fe0.2)OHFeSe. Our results indicate that a static
magnetic ordering appears in the (Li0.8 Fe0.2)OH layer as temperature
decreases. Moreover, such magnetic ordering possesses a field-induced
ferromagnetic component along the external field direction. Our present
results indicate that the superconductivity in (Li0.8 Fe0.2)OHFeSe is
very robust against the observed field-induced ferromagnetism and both
of them could coexist under external magnetic field. This also offers a
new platform to study the interplay between superconductivity and
magnetism.

_Note added._ Recently we noticed a paper [25] reporting a similar ⁷Li
NMR result but at lower field.

This work is supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of
China (Grant No. 11374281), the "Strategic Priority Research Program
(B)" of the Chinese Academy of Sciences (Grant No. XDB04040100), the
National Basic Research Program of China (973 Program, Grant No.
2012CB922002). Specialized Research Fund for the Doctoral Program of
Higher Education (Grant No. 20133402110032), the Recruitment Program of
Global Experts, and the CAS Hundred Talents Program.

## References

* [1] Y. Kamihara, T. Watanabe, M. Hirano, and H. Hosono, J. Am. Chem.
Soc. **130**, 3296 (2008). * [2] X. H. Chen, T. Wu, G. Wu, R. H. Liu, H.
Chen, and D. F. Fang, Nature (London) **453**, 167 (2008). * [3] G. F.
Chen, Z. Li, D. Wu, G. Li, W. Z. Hu, J. Dong, P. Zheng, J. L. Luo, and
N. L. Wang, Phys. Rev. Lett. **100**, 247002 (2008). * [4] Z.-A. Ren, W.
Lu, J. Yang, W. Yi, X.-L. Shen, Z.-C. Li, G.-C. Che, X.-L. Dong, L.-L.
Sun, F. Zhou, and Z.-X. Zhao, Chin. Phys. Lett. **25**, 2215 (2008). *
[5] M. Rotter, M. Tegel, and D. Johrendt, Phys. Rev. Lett. **101**,
107006 (2008). * [6] X. C. Wang, Q. Liu, Y. Lv, W. Gao, L. X. Yang, R.
C. Yu, F. Y. Li, and C. Jin, Solid. State. Commun. **148**, 538 (2008).

Figure 5: (Color online) Temperature-dependent T₂ of Li(0) sites under
external magnetic field H = 10 T (black) and 5.2 T (red), respectively.
The different T₂ values compared to earlier work are caused by adopting
a different prefactor in the T₂ decay formula [19], which does not
change the temperature dependence of T₂ and relevant conclusions.

* [7] F. C. Hsu, J. Y. Luo, K. W. Yeh, T. K. Chen, T. W. Huang, P. M.
Wu, Y. C. Lee, Y. L. Huang, Y. Y. Chu, D. C. Yan, and M. K. Wu, Proc.
Natl. Acad. Sci. USA **105**, 14262 (2008). * [8] Q. Y. Wang, Z. Li, W.
H. Zhang, Z. C. Zhang, J. S. Zhang, W. Li, H. Ding, Y. B. Ou, P. Deng,
K. Chang, J. Wen, C. L. Song, K. He, J. F. Jia, S. H. Ji, Y. Y. Wang, L.
L. Wang, X. Chen, X. C. Ma, and Q. K. Xue, Chin. Phys. Lett. **29**,
037402 (2012). * [9] X. H. Chen, P. C. Dai, D. L. Feng, T. Xiang, and
F.-C. Zhang, Natl. Sci. Rev. **1**, 371 (2014). * [10] D. F. Liu, W. H.
Zhang, D. X. Mou, J. F. He, Y. B. Ou, Q. Y. Wang, Z. Li, L. Wang, L.
Zhao, S. L. He, Y. Y. Peng, X. Liu, C. Y. Chen, L. Yu, G. D. Liu, X. L.
Dong, J. Zhang, C. T. Chen, Z. Y. Xu, J. P. Hu, X. Chen, X. C. Ma, Q. K.
Xue, and X. J. Zhou, Nat. Commun. **3**, 931 (2012). * [11] S. L. He, J.
F. He, W. H. Zhang, L. Zhao, D. F. Liu, X. Liu, D. X. Mou, Y. B. Ou, Q.
Y. Wang, Z. Li, L. L. Wang, Y. Y. Peng, Y. Liu, C. Y. Chen, L. Yu, G. D.
Liu, X. L. Dong, J. Zhang, C. T. Chen, Z. Y. Xu, X. Chen, X. C. Ma, Q.
K. Xue, and X. J. Zhou, Nat. Mater. **12**, 605 (2012). * [12] J. G.
Guo, S. F. Jin, G. Wang, S. C. Wang, K. X. Zhu, T. T. Zhou, M. He, and
X. L. Chen, Phys. Rev. B **82**, 180520(R) (2010). * [13] A. F. Wang, J.
J. Ying, Y. J. Yan, R. H. Liu, X. G. Luo, Z. Y. Li, X. F. Wang, M.
Zhang, G. J. Ye, P. Cheng, Z. J. Xiang, and X. H. Chen, Phys. Rev. B
**83**, 060512(R) (2011). * [14] A. Krzton-Maziopa, Z. Shermadini, E.
Pomjakushina, V. Pomjakushin, M. Bendele, A. Amato, R. Khasanov, H.
Luetkens, and K. Conder, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter **23**, 052203
(2011). * [15] T. P. Ying, X. L. Chen, G. Wang, S. F. Jin, T. T. Zhou,
X. F. Lai, H. Zhang, and W. Y. Wang, Sci. Rep. **2**, 426 (2012). * [16]
A. Krzton-Maziopa, E. V. Pomjakushina, Y. Yu Pomjakushin, F. von Rohr,
A. Schilling, and K. Conder, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter **24**, 382202
(2012). * [17] M. Burrard-Lucas, D. G. Free, S. J. Sedlmaier, J. D.
Wright, S. J. Cassidy, Y. Hara, A. J. Corkett, T. Lancaster, P. J.
Baker, S. J. Blundell, and S. J. Clarke, Nat. Mater. **12**, 15
(2013). * [18] X. F. Lu, N. Z. Wang, G. H. Zhang, X. G. Luo, Z. M. Ma,
B. Lei, F. Q. Huang, and X. H. Chen, Phys. Rev. B **89**, 020507(R)
(2014). * [19] X. F. Lu, N. Z. Wang, H. Wu, Y. P. Wu, D. Zhao, X. Z.
Zeng, X. G. Luo, T. Wu, W. Bao, G. H. Zhang, F. Q. Huang, Q. Z. Huang,
and X. H. Chen, Nat. Mater. **14**, 325 (2015). * [20] H. Y. Cao, S. Y.
Chen, H. J. Xiang, and X. G. Gong, Phys. Rev. B **91**, 020504 (2015). *
[21] H. L. Sun, D. N. Woodruff, S. J. Cassidy, G. M. Allcroft, S. J.
Sedlmaier, A. L. Thompson, P. A. Bingham, S. D. Forder, S. Carteen, N.
Mary, S. Ramos, F. R. Foronda, B. H. Williams, X. D. Li, S. J. Blundell,
and S. J. Clarke, Inorg. Chem. **54**, 1958 (2015). * [22] T. Imai, K.
Ahilan, F. L. Ning, T. M. McQueen, and R. J. Cava, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**102**, 177005 (2009). * [23] Y. Texier, J. Deisenhofer, V. Tsurkan, A.
Loidl, D. S. Inosov, G. Friemel, and J. Bobroff, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**108**, 237002 (2012). * [24] T. Wu, G. Wu, H. Chen, Y. L. Xie, R. H.
Liu, X. F. Wang, and X. H. Chen, J. Magn. Magn. Mater. **321**, 3870
(2009). * [25] U. Pachmayr, F. Nitsche, H. Luetkens, S. Kamusella, F.
Bruckner, R. Sarkar, H.-H. Klauss, and D. Johrendt, Angew. Chem., Int.
Ed. **54**, 293 (2015).
