# Electronic density of states in amorphous zirconium alloys

F. P. Missell, S. Frota-Pessoa, J. Wood, J. Tyler, and J. E. Keem

Energy Conversion Devices, Inc., 1675 W. Maple Rd., Troy, Michigan 48084

6 August 1982

###### Abstract

We have produced amorphous Zr-Rh, Zr-Ru, and Zr-Re films by means of rf
diode cosputtering techniques. Measurements were made of the
superconducting transition temperature T_(e), the normal resistivity ρ,
and upper critical field H_(e2). From ρ and (dH_(e2)/dT)_(T_(e)) we
determined the dressed density of states at the Fermi level
N^(•) = N(1 + λ), where λ is the electron-phonon coupling constant and N
is the bare density of states. For Zr-Rh and Zr-Re, N^(•) exhibited an
approximately linear decrease as the Zr fraction decreased. For Zr-Ru
alloys the behavior was more complex. Estimating N for Zr-Rh alloys, we
find it to be approximately the same in magnitude and composition
dependence as the N for Zr-Cu alloys. We calculate the magnitude and
composition dependence of N for Zr-Rh and Zr-Cu alloys with the use of a
simple model and obtain good agreement with the experimental results.

## 1 Introduction

A notable fact about amorphous superconducting transition-metal alloys
is that the composition dependence of the superconducting transition
temperature T_(e) is very different from that of their crystalline
counterparts. Whereas for crystalline materials T_(e) shows several
distinct peaks at certain values of the electron per atom (e/a) ratio
(Matthias’s rule), Collver and Hammond [1] showed that T_(e) for
amorphous alloys exhibits a single broad peak centered between the two
main crystalline peaks. McMillan [2] has related variations in T_(e) for
crystalline transition-metal alloys to structure in the d-band density
of states. Similarly, the effect of disorder on the density of states
was considered by Crow _et al._[3] in regard to the changes that occur
in T_(e) of transition-metal superconductors when they are made very
disordered by deposition onto cryogenic substrates. The importance of
the density of states in determining T_(e) for amorphous
transition-metal alloys has been repeatedly stressed by several authors.
[4, 5, 6] Previously, Varma and Dynes [7] had highlighted the importance
of the density of states in determining the properties of
transition-metal superconductors.

In spite of this, however, a recent work [8] has shown that there may be
exceptions to the above-mentioned behavior. It was shown that amorphous
alloys of (Mo_(0.6)Ru_(0.4))_(1 − λ)Si_(x) and
(Mo_(1 − y)T_(y))_(1 − x)Si_(x), where T is a 4d or 5d transition metal,
may have an anomalous behavior. For these materials increasing values of
the electron-phonon dressed density of states N^(•) are associated with
decreasing values of T_(e). This may indicate the importance of
hybridization effects of the kind usually ignored [7] by many authors.
Thus this exception to the generally expected behavior motivated an
examination of N^(•) in other amorphous superconducting alloys. There
has been, furthermore, a suggestion [9] that Zr₇₀Ru₃₀ might have a T_(e)
considerably higher than the metallic glasses Zr₇₀Rh₃₀ and Zr₇₀Pd₃₀.
Therefore, we decided to fabricate alloys with compositions
Zr_(1 − x)Rh_(x), Zr_(1 − x)Ru_(x), and Zr_(1 − x)Re_(x) and to study
their superconducting properties.

In the present work we report on alloys produced by rf diode
cosputtering techniques on room-temperature substrates. Previously,
Zr₇₅Rh₂₅ had been fabricated by rapid quenching in a piston-and-anvil
apparatus [10] and by melt spinning. [11, 12] Our amorphous alloys, with
compositions between Zr₈₀Rh₂₀ and Zr₅₇Rh₄₃, had slightly lower values
for T_(e) than the T_(e) = 4.3 K reported for Zr₇₅Rh₂₅. [10, 11, 12] The
values of T_(e) for our amorphous Zr-Ru alloys were only slightly higher
than those for Zr-Rh alloys, while results for Zr-Re alloys were lower.
The normal-state resistivity ρ and the temperature derivative of the
upper critical field (dH_(e2)/dT)_(T_(e)) were used to determine the
dressed density of states N^(•) for these alloys. Both Zr-Rh and Zr-Re
alloys show a linearly decreasing N^(•) with decreasing percentage of
Zr. For Zr-Rh alloys our values of N^(•) are comparable to values of
N^(•) for Zr-Cu alloys, obtained for the same range of compositions.
[13] Estimating λ, the electron-phonon coupling constant for these
alloys, we obtained the bare density of states N = N^(•)/(1 + λ) for the
Zr-Rh alloys and, again, the results were in agreement with those for
Zr-Cu alloys of Ref. [13]. The magnitude and alloying behavior of N for
the Zr-Cu and Zr-Rh alloys can be understood in terms of a simple model
where we assume that the d band of Rh or Cu makes a negligible
contribution to the density of states at the Fermi level. This is in
accord with recent ultraviolet photoelectron spectroscopy (UPS)
measurements.[14, 15] Then the measured density of states is given as a
sum of contributions from the Zr d band and the Zr and Cu or Rh s bands.
We obtain good agreement with experiment. Although we are not in a
position to estimate λ for the Zr-Re alloys, nor are there UPS
measurements for these alloys, the resemblance of these data to those
obtained for Zr-Rh and Zr-Cu alloys suggests that a similar explanation
may be possible here. Recent studies of Zr-Ru alloys show that Ru d band
is not as separated from the d band of Zr, and is somewhat wider than
that of Rh. Our simple model allows us to understand in a qualitative
manner the composition dependence of N^(•) for these materials.

## II Sample Preparation and Experiment

The alloys studied in this work were prepared by rf diode cosputtering
techniques on round, 3-in. glass substrates maintained near room
temperature. Base pressures of 10⁻⁶ Torr were obtained prior to
initiating a flow of Ar at a pressure of 7 μm. The substrates were
masked with the use of standard photolithographic techniques. The
targets were of high-purity Zr, appropriately modified by high-purity
foils of Rh, Ru, or Re. The substrate was arranged above the target in
such a manner that a composition gradient was obtained along the
substrate, furnishing a number of samples for resistivity measurements
with different compositions. Similar techniques have been used
previously for obtaining composition gradients.[16, 17] In addition,
larger regions of the disk were patterned to provide x-ray samples for
determining the phases present in the deposited material. One large
x-ray sample was available for each of the three resistivity samples
and, therefore, the x-ray results are to be considered averages over
three compositions. On the other hand, the composition of each
individual resistivity sample was measured directly with the use of
wavelength or energy-dispersive x-ray spectroscopy. Sample compositions
should have an absolute accuracy of 5

All of the Zr_(1 − x)Rh_(x) alloys studied were amorphous, indicating
that the amorphous phase extends, at least, from 20 at.

The superconducting transition temperature T_(ϵ) was determined
resistively in all cases with the use of current densities of order 1−3
A/cm². T_(ϵ) was taken to be the temperature corresponding to 50

Figure 1: Upper critical field H_(ϵ2) as a function of temperature T for
several Zr_(1 − x)Rh_(x) alloys.

## III Experimental Results

In Fig. 1 we show some typical curves of H_(e2) vs T for the Zr-Rh
alloys. From the linear portion of the curve near T_(e), we obtained
(dH_(e2)/dT)_(T_(e)) for eventual calculation of the dressed density of
states. Since the lowest obtainable temperature for our system is ∼ 1.5
K, we did not obtain large fractions of the H_(e2)-vs-T phase diagram
for the low T_(e) alloys. Thus we only attempted to compare the H_(e2)
curves for x = 0.23 and 0.24 to the Ginzburg-Landau-Abrikosov-Gorkov
(GLAG) theory. We note in Fig. 1 that the curves for x = 0.24 and 0.37
are bending completely over at low T and do not show the linear behavior
reported for some amorphous alloys.[21] Further analysis showed that the
x = 0.23 and 0.24 curves are in agreement with the GLAG theory. These
results will be discussed elsewhere.

In Table 1 we give the T_(e) values for the Zr-Rh alloys studied here.
The uncertainties in T_(e) represent the transition widths,
corresponding to the temperature difference between 10

Also given in Table 1 are T_(e) values for the Zr-Ru and Zr-Re alloys.
Our value for T_(e) of amorphous Zr72Ru28, T_(e) = 3.76 K, is somewhat
higher than the T_(e) reported by Collver and Hammond for a different
composition and represents the highest T_(e) value reported to date for
an amorphous Zr-Ru alloy. In the case of the Zr-Re alloys, we observed
transitions, strongly broadened in an asymmetric fashion to the
high-temperature side. Upon seeing these transitions, we suspected the
presence of two phases. However, the x-ray data showed two of these
samples to be amorphous and did not give indications of another phase.
We are currently investigating the source of this broadening. Values of
the critical-field slope at T_(e), (dH_(e2)/dT)_(T_(e)), as well as the
resistivity at 25 K, ρ₂₅, and at 300 K, ρ₃₀₀ are also given in Table 1.
We note that the thermal contraction of the substrate was not taken into
account in calculating ρ₂₅. Thus the use of ρ₂₅ and ρ₃₀₀ may provide
unreliable values of the temperature coefficient of resistivity.

  ------------- ---------------------- ---------------------- --------- ---------
                        T_(e)           (dH_(e2)/dT)_(T_(e))    ρ₃₀₀       ρ₂₅
  Composition            (K)                   (kG/K)          (μΩ cm)   (μΩ cm)
  Zr₇₅Rh₄₃            2.18±0.01                 26±1             205       214
  Zr₉₈Rh₄₁            2.44±0.23                  27              187       200
  Zr₆₃Rh₃₇            2.86±0.05                  28              182       194
  Zr₇₃Rh₂₇            3.57±0.01                  31              166       177
  Zr₇₆Rh₂₄            3.67±0.01                  32              180       185
  Zr₇₇Rh₂₃            3.66±0.02                  32              165       175
  Zr₈₀Rh₂₀            3.72±0.01                  31              171       184
  Zr₇₂Ru₂₈            3.76±0.01                  27                        194
  Zr₇₃Ru₂₇            3.11±0.06                  27              203       213
  Zr₇₃Ru₂₂            3.73±0.04                  23              184       193
  Zr₈₂Ru₁₈            3.78±0.01                  28              196       205
  Zr₈₂Ru₁₈            3.33±0.07                  27                        185
  Zr₈₃Ru₁₃            3.57±0.13                  20              188       193
  Zr₈₉Ru₁₁            3.84±0.08                  21                        198
  Zr₉₈Ru₁₁            3.90±0.08                  24              196       204
  Zr₉₂Ru₈             3.79±0.16                  20              196       200
  Zr₉₀Re₃₀       2.69_(−0.07)^(+1.06)            24              190       199
  Zr₈₄Re₁₆       3.32_(−0.01)^(+0.39)            25              171       179
  Zr₉₀Re₁₀       4.12_(−0.01)^(+0.20)            23              143       147
  ------------- ---------------------- ---------------------- --------- ---------

Table 1: Superconducting properties of alloys studied.

## IV Discussion

### Determination of electronic density of states

According to the extended GLAG theory,[22, 23] the resistivity ρ and the
slope of H_(e2) near T_(e) are related to the electron-phonon dressed
density of states for one spin direction N^(•)(E_(F)) by the relation

$$\left[\frac{dH_{e2}}{dT}\right] = - \beta\frac{8kee}{\pi}\rho N^{\bullet}(E_{F})\ ,$$
(1)

where β is an enhancement factor (of order 1) for strong coupled
superconductors. N^(•)(E_(F)) is related to the bare or band-structure
density of states N(E_(F)) by the relation

N^(•)(E_(F)) = (1 + λ)N(E_(F)) ,

where λ is the electron-phonon–coupling parameter. Bergmann[24] used
this relation to study the electronic density of states at the Fermi
surface in amorphous strong coupling superconductors. Good agreement
with the measured field slopes was obtained when λ was taken from
tunneling measurements and N(E_(F)) was calculated from the
free-electron model. Furthermore, Shull _et al.[25]_ showed for
amorphous La_(1 − x)Ga_(x) foils that N^(•)(E_(F)), obtained from
specific-heat measurements, was in excellent agreement with values
calculated from the slope of the upper critical field. More recently,
von Minnigerode and Samwer[13] showed the two methods of determining
N^(•)(E_(F)) to be in good agreement for Zr_(1 − x)Cu_(x) alloys.

In Table 2 we present values of N^(•), calculated with the use of Eq.
(1) with β=1, for the materials studied in this work. We have presented
our results in terms of the more familiar unit state/eV atom spin. To do
this we must have the density of the alloy under consideration.
Densities were calculated by taking a linear combination of the
densities of the constituents. In the case of

  --------------------------------- ----------- ---------------------------- ------- -------------------------
  Composition                        T_(e) (K)   N^(•) (states/eV at. spin)   λ^(•)   N (states/eV at. spin)a
  Zr${}_{\rm{7g}}$Rh₄₃                 2.18                 0.64              0.43             0.45
  Zr${}_{\rm{9g}}$Rh₄₁                 2.44                 0.72              0.48             0.49
  Zr${}_{\rm{qg}}$Rh₃₇                 2.86                 0.79              0.51             0.52
  Zr${}_{\rm{73}}$Rh₂₇                 3.57                 1.02              0.61             0.63
  Zr${}_{\rm{7g}}$Rh₂₄                 3.67                 1.02              0.61             0.63
  Zr${}_{\rm{77}}$Rh₂₃                 3.66                 1.09              0.64             0.66
  Zr${}_{\rm{9g}}$Rh₂₀                 3.72                 1.02              0.61             0.63
  Zr${}_{\rm{72}}$Ru₂₈                 3.76                 0.77                     
  Zr${}_{\rm{73}}$Ru₂₇                 3.11                 0.71                     
  Zr${}_{\rm{78}}$Ru₂₂                 3.73                 0.69                     
  Zr${}_{\rm{92}}$Ru₁₈                 3.78                 0.81                     
  Zr${}_{\rm{92}}$Ru₁₈                 3.33                 0.86                     
  Zr${}_{\rm{79}}$Ru₁₃                 3.57                 0.63                     
  Zr${}_{\rm{98}}$Ru₁₁                 3.84                 0.66                     
  Zr${}_{\rm{98}}$Ru₁₁                 3.90                 0.73                     
  Zr${}_{\rm{92}}$Ru${}_{\rm{8}}$      3.79                 0.63                     
  Zr${}_{\rm{70}}$Re₃₀                 2.69                 0.63                     
  Zr${}_{\rm{78}}$Re₁₆                 3.32                 0.79                     
  Zr${}_{\rm{96}}$Re₁₀                 4.12                 0.93                     
  --------------------------------- ----------- ---------------------------- ------- -------------------------

Table 2: Electronic density of states for alloys studied.

Zr₇₅Rh₂₅, this procedure results in a density which is ∼ 5

In Fig. 2 we show values of N^(•) as a function of x for
Zr_(1 − x)Rh_(x) and Zr_(1 − x)Re_(x). Although there is some scatter in
the data for Zr_(1 − x)Rh_(x), the general tendency in both cases is a
decrease in N^(•) as the zirconium fraction decreases. We have made
least-squares fits to the data points for both Zr_(1 − x)Rh_(x) and
Zr_(1 − x)Re_(x) and these fits are shown in Fig. 2. We see that the
slopes are approximately the same in both cases. In Fig. 3 the data for
N^(•) of Zr_(1 − x)Ru_(x) are shown as a function of x. Here the pattern
is less clear but we certainly do not see a decrease in N^(•) as the
zirconium fraction decreases. In fact, the results of Fig. 3 seem to
indicate the contrary: N^(•) increases with x, but in a different manner
for crystalline and amorphous alloys.

As we mentioned in the Introduction, one of the purposes of this work is
to investigate the correlation between N^(•) and T_(e) in these
materials. Therefore, in Fig. 4 we plot T_(e) as a function of N^(•) for
both Zr_(1 − x)Rh_(x) and Zr_(1 − x)Re_(x). In both cases we see that
T_(e) increases as N^(•) increases. Later we will see that, for
Zr_(1 − x)Rh_(x), λ is relatively small and, in fact, N follows the same
trend as N^(•). Thus it seems reasonable to suppose that T_(e) also
increases with increasing N in both Zr_(1 − x)Rh_(x) and
Zr_(1 − x)Re_(x). This is in agreement with previous experiments,⁴ ⁻ ⁶
as well as with the calculations of Varma and Dynes⁷ who suggest that N
is the dominant factor in determining T_(e) in transition-metal
superconductors. Also shown in Fig. 5 is T_(e) vs N^(•) for
Zr_(1 − x)Ru_(x) alloys. Here it is difficult to discern a trend in the
data, perhaps because we have only three samples which were amorphous.
Nevertheless, the behavior of T_(e) in Fig. 5 is certainly different
from that seen in Fig. 4 for Zr_(1 − x)Rh_(x) and Zr_(1 − x)Re_(x).

Now in order to compare the present results with band-structure
calculations, it is interesting to try to obtain N. For Zr₇₅Rh₂₅,
Garoche and Johnson²⁷ found Θ_(D) = 191 K from specific-heat
measurements. Using our value T_(e) = 3.67 K and assuming μ^(•) = 0.10,
we inverted the McMillan equation to estimate λ = 0.61 for our Zr₇₅Rh₂₅.
We note that this procedure is relatively insensitive to the exact value
of Θ_(D): A 5

Now in order to estimate λ for other compositions, we use a result from
Varma and Dynes.⁷ These authors find that λ is approximately given by

λ ∼ N(E_(F))W(1 ∓ S) ,
(2)

where W is the width of the d band and S is related to a tight-binding
overlap integral. According to Ref. [7], W(1 ∓ S) should be roughly
constant in a class of alloys for which the dominant orbital is of the
same nature at the Fermi surface. This behavior is expected for both
Zr_(1 − x)Rh_(x) and Zr_(1 − x)Cu_(x)

Figure 3: Dressed density of states N^(•) vs x for Zr_(1 − x)Ru_(x) (◼,
amorphous; ▫, crystalline) alloys.

where, as we shall see later, the Zr orbital is dominant at the Fermi
level for all compositions studied. We write λ ∼ aN where a is a
constant. On the other hand, we have the definition of N^(•) = (1 + λ)N.
These equations can be solved with the use of experimental values for
N^(•) (for each x value) and the value of a from the known value of λ
for Zr75Rh25. We have done this and the resulting values of λ and N are
presented in Table II for the Zr1_(−x)Rh_(x) alloys.

To evaluate this procedure for determining λ and N, we used it on the
data of Ref. [13] for Zr1_(1 − x)Cu_(x). In this work von Minnigerode
and Samwer obtained T_(c) and Θ_(D) from specific-heat measurements and
then inverted the McMillan equation to find λ and then N. We used their
value of λ for Zr74Cu26 and calculated λ and N for Zr50Cu50, obtaining
λ = 0.52 and N = 0.46 states/eV atom spin. von Minnigerode and Samwer
obtained λ = 0.45 and N = 0.475. Although the difference in λ is
slightly greater than 10

In Fig. 6 we show N vs x for Zr1_(−x)Rh_(x) and Zr1_(−x)Cu_(x), the
latter results obtained from Ref. [13]. Within the scatter of the data
the magnitudes and the concentration dependence of N are the same in
Zr-Rh and Zr-Cu alloys (Fig. 6), suggesting that the Zr concentration
determines N. This agrees with recent UPS measurements which show that
the density of states has two peaks, the one near E_(F) determined by Zr
and not by Rh (Ref. [15]) or by Cu (Refs. [28] and [29]).

### Empirical model

To understand the behavior of the density of states we start with a
simple model. In the spirit of Miedema,[30, 31] we use for the total
density of states a superposition of the individual density of states
weighted by the concentrations. To proceed within this model we have to
find the individual density of states for each component and the
position of the bands relative to one another. We will limit our
calculations to the cases of Cu and Rh which exhibit similar behavior
and for which the bare density of states could be obtained from
experiment. Nonetheless, our simple model will indicate how a completely
different behavior can be obtained (as expected for Zr-Ru) alloys and
illustrate the difficulties involved with this kind of calculation.

For the individual bands we will treat the d and s states independently,
ignoring s-d hybridization. For the s band we will use a free-electron
model with effective mass given using the procedure described by
Harrison,[32] as well as his parameters. For the d band we use the
canonical band approach, based on a simplified version of the
Korringa-Kohn-Rostoker method,[33] which allows us to separate the
problem of calculating the density of states into two parts. The first,
which depends only on structure, can be solved once and used for
different materials as long as they share the structure. The second part
depends on the material and essentially fixes the d-band width.

For the structural part, which fixes the shape of the band, we use the
calculation of Cyrot-Lackmann[34] for amorphous Co, simulated by a dense
random packing of hard spheres relaxed through a Lennard-Jones
potential. To obtain the d density of states for the desired material we
adjust the bandwidth with the use of the bandwidth ratio between the
material we are considering and Co, while dividing the density of states
by the same ratio in order to keep the number of electronic states
constant. We have used, for the various elements, the widths W given by
Harrison,[32] which were obtained as a best fit to crystalline
calculations with the constraint of being canonically related. In Table
**III**, $W_{\rm Zr}$, $W_{\rm Cu}$, and $W_{\rm Rh}$ are the widths of
the d bands of the respective elements. In the spirit of the
Slater-Koster approach, they give us an idea of the tight-binding
parameters of the material. The crystalline band-structure calculations
can also be used to obtain the distance E_(d) between the bottom of the
s band and the center of the d band.[32] In Table III, $E_{\rm Zr}$,
$E_{\rm Cu}$, and $E_{\rm Rh}$ are the values of E_(d) for the
respective materials.

Having determined the band structure of each amorphous material we used
the work of Gelatt _et al._[35] to find the distance E₀ between the
centers of the two bands. These are approximate values and were obtained
with the use of the renormalized-atom approximation (RAA), assuming one
s electron and no charge transfer. An alternative method to find E₀
could be based on the knowledge of charge transfer, calculated with the
use of Miedema’s approach. However, as we shall see later, a more
realistic model does not require charge transfer.[36] In fact,
band-structure calculations by Moruzzi _et al._[37] show that, for
close-packed Zr-Rh crystalline compounds, the charge transfer is rather
negligible.

Figures 7(a) and 7(b) show the density of states for Zr-Cu and Zr-Rh
alloys using Harrison’s parameters and the RAA values for E₀. These
parameters along with those used to obtain Fig. 7(c) are listed in Table
3. For Zr-Cu, alloys the Cu d band does not contribute at the Fermi
level and N decreases with the decreasing number of Zr atoms. The
density of states at the Fermi level for Zr-Cu alloys varies linearly
with concentration as shown in Fig. 6, essentially reflecting the
dilution of the Zr as we add Cu. It is clear from the experimental data
of Fig. 6 that a similar situation should occur for Rh. Actually UPS
results[15] indicate that the d band for Rh lies below the Zr d band as
one might expect in this case. Therefore, Fig. 7(b), a mere
superposition of bands, does not describe the Zr-Rh system well. To
improve the model we will have to consider at least one feature inherent
to the binary system: the effect of dilution on the bandwidth. When the
bands are split and far apart in energy, the interaction between
different species is less effective. As the material is diluted the
average number of neighbors of the same species is smaller leading to a
decreased bandwidth. The widths of both elements in the compound should
be corrected as a function of composition, but the effect is far more
important for the element present in low concentration. A dependence of
bandwidth on the square root of concentration was obtained[38] by
applying the coherent-potential theory to treat two identical bands,
originating from a single level (s bands) and well separated in energy.
These results illustrate the principle, but since we have d bands and an
amorphous system they cannot be directly applied here.

In Fig. 7(c) we present results for our model, obtained with use of, for
the Rh d-band width and the distance between the center of the Zr and Rh
bands, parameters extracted from a band-structure calculation are shown
in Fig. 7(d). The values of E_(F) for Zr₉₀Rh₁₀, Zr₇₀Rh₃₀, and Zr₅₀Rh₅₀
calculated with the use of the parameters of the third row of Table 3.

c c c c c c c Figure & $W_{\rm Zr}$ & $W_{\rm Rh}$ & $W_{\rm Cu}$ & E₀ &
$E_{\rm Zr}$ & $E_{\rm Cu}$ & $E_{\rm Rh}$
7(a) & 8.37a & & 2.8a & 4.8b & 7.17a & 5.9a &
7(b) & 8.37a & 6.89a & & 3.0b & 7.17a & 5.08a
7(c) & 8.37a & 3.0c & & 5.0c & 7.17a & 5.08a

Table 3: Parameters used to calculate densities of states for Zr-Cu and
Zr-Rh alloys. All quantities are given in units of eV.

tion for crystalline Zr₃Rh.[38] The Zr width was not corrected, limiting
the model to high Zr concentrations. As long as the d band of Rh is
filled at the given composition (that is, as long as the Fermi level
lies above the Rh d band), the actual width of the Rh d band is
irrelevant for the density of states at the Fermi level. That is the
reason why the model with an uncorrected d-band width works so well for
Cu. We should note, however, that a correction of the Zr d-band width
can be important when considering the lower Zr concentrations.

It is well worth mentioning that while the position of the Fermi level
relative to the Zr band varies very little with composition, it shifts
to lower energies in Zr-Rh alloys. Eventually in the limit of very small
Zr concentrations, the Fermi level will lie in the Rh d band as it does
in pure Rh. Therefore, at some concentration above 50

Now we would like to mention a more subtle aspect of the problem that
has been neglected until now. In an interacting Zr-Rh system, we expect
to have some probability of finding electrons at the Zr site with
energies in the range of the Rh band. By the same token, some of the Rh
states are spread upwards in energy toward the Zr band. Thus it is clear
that some of the states of the Rh band are actually localized on the Zr
sites, explaining why a filled Rh does not necessarily imply charge
transfer.

Finally, we would like to mention that calculations for crystalline
Zr-Ru alloys suggest that for these materials one should have an overlap
of the d bands leading to a more sizable contribution from Ru at the
Fermi level. This case will be similar to the one illustrated in Fig.
7(b) and we do not expect for Zr-Ru alloys a pronounced decrease of N
with the Zr fraction, as seen in Zr-Cu and Zr-Rh alloys.

## V Conclusions

The good agreement we have obtained for the Zr-Cu and Zr-Rh alloys
suggests that other materials with split d bands should show a similar
behavior. For high Zr concentrations UPS measurements on Zr-Pd (Ref.
[14]) and Zr-Ni (Ref. [29]) alloys show to some degree a split d band
and our model may provide a good account of the situation in these
materials. Work is currently underway on these alloys. We have shown
that, for high Zr concentrations, where distortions of the Zr band may
be neglected, the behavior of the density of states in some amorphous,
split-band materials can be understood in terms of a dilution effect.
However, the difficulties encountered when applying the model to Zr-Rh
alloys illustrate the need for more accurate methods. This is especially
important if we want to have a good description for lower Zr
concentrations or understand the behavior of N as a function of
concentration for the case of overlapping bands. The recursion
method[39] has been used to study the Zr-Cu system.[36] Efforts are
under way to apply the method to study the concentration dependence of N
for binary systems with overlapping bands.

## Acknowledgments

We wish to thank M. Tenhover for many useful discussions and V. L.
Moruzzi for communicating his results prior to publication. This
research benefited from the overall support of energy conversion at
Energy Conversion Devices, Inc., by the Atlantic Richfield Company.

## References

* [*] Present address: Instituto de Fisica, Universidade de Sao Paulo,
C.P. 20516, Sao Paulo, S.P., Brazil. * [2] M. M. Collver and R. H.
Hammond, Phys. Rev. Lett. 30, 92 (1973). * [3] W. L. McMillan, Phys.
Rev. 167, 331 (1968). * [4] J. E. Crow, M. Strongin, R. S. Thompson, and
O. F. Kammerer, Phys. Lett. 30, 161 (1969). * [5] W. L. Johnson, J.
Appl. Phys. 50, 1557 (1979). * [6] W. L. Johnson, in _Glassy Metals I_,
Vol. 46 of _Topics in Applied Physics_, edited by H.-J. Guntherodt and
H. Beck (Springer, New York, 1981). * [7] C. C. Tsuei, in
_Superconducting Materials Science_, edited by S. Foner and B. B.
Schwartz (Plenum, New York, 1981), p. 735. * [8] C. M. Varma and R. C.
Dynes, in _Superconductivity in d- and f-band Metals_, edited by D. H.
Douglass (Plenum, New York, 1976). * [9] J. Flasck, J. Wood, A. S.
Edelstein, J. E. Keem, and F. P. Missell, Solid State Commun. 44, 649
(1982). * [10] M. Tenhover and W. L. Johnson, Physica (Utrecht) 108B-C,
1221 (1981). * [11] A. J. Drehman and W. L. Johnson, Phys. Status Solidi
A 52, 499 (1979). * [11] R. E. Elmquist and S. J. Poon, Solid State
Commun. 41, 221 (1982). * [12] S. J. Poon, P. L. Dunn, R.E. Elmquist,
and L. M. Smith, Solid State Commun. 42, 267 (1982). * [13] G. von
Minnigerode and K. Samwer, Physica (Utrecht) 108B-C, 1217 (1981). * [14]
P. Oelhafen, E. Hauser, H. J. Guntherodt, and K. H. Bennemann, Phys.
Rev. Lett. 43, 1134 (1979). * [15] P. Oelhafen, V. L. Moruzzi, A. R.
Williams, R. Lapka, and H. J. Guntherodt, Bull. Am. Phys. Soc. 22, 349
(1982). * [16] J. Hanak, J. Vac. Sci. Technol. 8, 172 (1971). * [17] A.
K. Ghosh and D. H. Douglass, Phys. Rev. Lett. 37, 32 (1976). * [18] K.
Togano and K. Tachikawa, J. Appl. Phys. 46, 3609 (1975). * [19] E.
Babic, R. Ristic, M. Miljak, M. G. Scott, and G. Gregan, Solid State
Commun. 39, 139 (1981). * [20] M. M. Collver and R. H. Hammond, Solid
State Commun. 22, 55 (1977). * [21] M. Tenhover, W. L. Johnson, and C.
C. Tsuei, Solid State Commun. 38, 53 (1981). * [22] G. Eilenberger and
V. Ambegaokar, Phys. Rev. 158, 332 (1967). * [23] D. Rainer, G.
Bergmann, and U. Eckhardt, Phys. Rev. B 8, 5324 (1973). * [24] G.
Bergmann, Phys. Rev. B 7, 4850 (1973). * [25] W. H. Shull, D. G. Naugle,
S. J. Poon, and W. L. Johnson, Phys. Rev. B 18, 3263 (1978). * [26] E.
Raub and E. Roschel, Z. Metallk. 54, 455 (1963). * [27] P. Garoche and
W. L. Johnson, Solid State Commun. 39, 403 (1981). * [28] A. Amamou and
G. Krill, Solid State Commun. 28, 957 (1978). * [29] P. Oelhafen, E.
Hauser, and H. J. Guntherodt, Solid State Commun. 35, 1017 (1980). *
[30] A. R. Miedema, J. Phys. F 3, 1803 (1973). * [31] A. R. Miedema, J.
Phys. F 4, 120 (1974). * [32] W. A. Harrison, _Electronic Structure and
the Properties of Solids_ (Freeman, San Francisco, 1980), Chap. 20. *
[33] O. K. Andersen and O. Jepsen, Physica (Utrecht) 91B, 317 (1977). *
[34] S. N. Khanna and F. Cyrot-Lackmann, Phys. Rev. B 21, 1412 (1980). *
[35] C. D. Gelatt, Jr., H. Ehrenreich, and R. E. Watson, Phys. Rev. B
15, 1613 (1977). * [36] S. Frota-Pessoa (unpublished). * [37] V. L.
Moruzzi, C. D. Gelatt, Jr., and A. R. Williams, Calculated Electronic
Properties of Ordered Alloys (in press). * [38] B. Velicky, S.
Kirkpatrick, and H. Ehrenreich, Phys. Rev. 175, 747 (1968). * [39] R.
Haydock, in _Solid State Physics_, edited by H. Ehrenreich, F. Seitz,
and D. Turnbull (Academic, New York, 1980), Vol. 35, p. 216.
