Thermodynamic phase diagram, phase competition, and uniaxial pressure
effects in BaFe₂(As_(1 − x)P_(x))₂ studied by thermal expansion

A. E. Bohmer,^(1, 2) P. Burger,^(1, 2) F. Hardy,¹ T. Wolf,¹ P.
Schweiss,¹ R. Fromknecht,¹ H. v. Lohneysen,^(1, 3) C. Meingast,¹ H. K.
Mak,⁴ R. Lortz,⁴ S. Kasahara,⁵ T. Terashima,⁵ T. Shibauchi,⁶ and Y.
Matsuda⁶

¹Institut fur Festkopperfysik, Karlsruhe Institute of Technology, 76021
Karlsruhe, Germany

²Fakultat fur Physik, Karlsruhe Institute of Technology, 76128
Karlsruhe, Germany

³Physikalisches Institut, Karlsruhe Institute of Technology, 76128
Karlsruhe, Germany

⁴The Hong Kong University of Science & Technology, Clear Water Bay,
Kowloon, Hong Kong

⁵Research Center for Low Temperature and Materials Sciences, Kyoto
University, Kyoto 606-8501, Japan

⁶Department of Physics, Kyoto University, Kyoto 606-8502, Japan

###### Abstract

High-resolution thermal-expansion and specific-heat data of isovalently
substituted single-crystalline BaFe₂(As_(1 − x)P_(x))₂ (0  ≤ x≤ 0.33,
x = 1) are presented. We show that crystals can be detwinned _in situ_
in the capacitance dilatometer, allowing a study of all three
independent crystallographic directions. From the thermal-expansion
data, we determine the phase diagram via a thermodynamic probe, study
the coupling of the spin-density wave (SDW) and superconducting order
parameters, and determine various pressure dependencies of the normal
and superconducting states. Our results show that in the underdoped
region, superconductivity and SDW order coexist and compete with each
other. The resulting phase diagram, however, exhibits a smaller
coexistence region of SDW and superconductivity with a steeper rise of
T_(c) on the underdoped side than in, e.g., Ba(Fe_(1 − x)Co_(x))₂As₂. On
the overdoped side, where there is no sign of SDW order, the lattice
parameters respond to superconductivity in much the same way as to the
SDW on the underdoped side, which demonstrates the intimate connection
between both kinds of order. Using thermodynamic relations, the uniaxial
pressure derivatives of the superconducting critical temperature and the
electronic Sommerfeld coefficient are determined from our
thermal-expansion data together with the specific-heat data. We find
that uniaxial pressure is proportional to P substitution and that the
electronic density of states has a maximum at optimal doping. Overall,
the coupling of the SDW and superconducting order to the lattice
parameters of BaFe₂(As_(1 − x)P_(x))₂ is found to be qualitatively very
similar to that of the well-studied, supposedly electron-doped
Ba(Fe_(1 − x)Co_(x))₂As₂ system.

pacs: 12.30.-h, 12.30.-k, similar in both systems. Both kinds of
substitutions can also be directly linked to uniaxial pressure, and both
systems display a maximum of the Sommerfeld coefficient at optimal
doping. The interesting question of why these systems behave so similar,
in spite of the presumably different routes (chemical pressure versus
electron doping) to superconductivity, will be addressed at the end of
the paper. Please note that throughout the paper the term "doping" will
be used in a broad sense, as an equivalent to substitution.

The paper is organized as follows. In Secs. II and III, we present the
experimental details and results, from which we construct the
thermodynamic phase diagram (Sec. IV). In Sec. V, we discuss the
interplay of the structural/magnetic order with superconductivity. The
uniaxial pressure effects on $T_{\rm c}$ and the electronic density of
states are presented in Sec. VI, and conclusions are provided in Sec.
VII. A brief preliminary report [24] on parts of this work has been
presented previously.

## II Experimental Details

Single crystals of P-substituted Ba122 were grown from stoichiometric
mixtures of the starting materials as described in Ref. [5]. Crystals of
pure BaFe₂P₂ were grown from self-flux using an Al₂O₃ crucible in a
closed steel container. Ba and prereacted FeP were mixed in a ratio of
1:5, heated up to 1300 ^(∘)C and slowly cooled down to 1200 ^(∘)C at a
rate of 0.3 ^(∘)C/h. The typical crystal size is ∼500 × 500 × 100 μm³.
Four-circle x-ray structural refinements were conducted on three of our
samples and yielded a P content of x = 0.25(1),0.30(1),0.33(1). The P
content of the other samples [x = 0.12(2),0.18(2),0.26(2),0.27(2)] was
determined by energy-dispersive x-ray analysis (EDX) on these samples
and complemented by four-circle x-ray diffraction on samples from the
same batch, hence the larger error.

Thermal expansion was measured in a home-built capacitive dilatometer
with a typical resolution of 0.1-0.01 A (Ref. [25]). In the dilatometer,
the sample is pressed against one plate of a plate-type capacitor (with
a force of F≈ 0.2 N) so that a change of the sample length results in a
changing capacitor gap. Samples were mechanically detwinned _in situ_ by
mounting them such that the dilatometer pressure is directed along their
tetragonal [110] direction. [26] In this configuration, thermal
expansion along the (shorter) orthorhombic b axis is measured.
Comparison with twinned samples, for which the dilatometer pressure is
applied along the tetragonal [100] direction, allows us to estimate the
thermal expansion along the orthorhombic a axis as well. Accurate data
could be obtained in spite of the (for dilatometry) extremely small
sample size.

The specific heat on the tiny samples with masses in the order of 100
micrograms was measured with a home-made microrelaxation calorimeter
using a "long-relaxation" technique. [27] Each relaxation at different
base temperature provides about 1000 data points over a temperature
interval of up to 50

## III Results

Figure 1 shows the measured uniaxial thermal-expansion coefficients
α_(i) = (1/L_(i))dL_(i)/dT where L is the sample length and the
subscript i stands for the direction. Clear anomalies are observed at
the magnetostructural transition (at $T_{\rm sm}$) and at the onset of
superconductivity at $T_{c}^{\rm on}$ as indicated in the figure. Panel
(b) shows the detwinned measurements of underdoped samples, which become
orthorhombic upon cooling. It is clear that the process of detwinning
strongly enhances all anomalies when compared to the twinned
measurements [panel (a)]. In order to look for a possible splitting at
the magnetostructural transition into two transitions, we present a
detailed comparison of twinned, detwinned, and c-axis data in panels (e)
and (f) of Fig. 1 for x = 0.18 and 0.25, respectively. Only a single
peak at $T_{\rm sm}$ is discernible in the c-axis data for the x = 0.25
sample, whereas there appears to be an additional shoulder a few degrees
above the peak at $T_{\rm sm}$ for the x = 0.18 sample. The twinned data
give very similar transition temperatures as the c-axis data and also do
not show clear evidence for a split transition. From these data, we
estimate that a possible splitting of the magnetostructural transition
amounts at most to ∼2-4 K. The peaks in the detwinned data, in which
uniaxial pressure is applied along the tetragonal [110] direction, show
a significant broadening and a slight upward shift (∼3 K) in
temperature, in line with theoretical expectations. [28] Since we are
unable to determine split transition temperatures reliably, we choose to
refer to a joint magnetostructural transition, bearing in mind that a
small splitting can not be ruled out.

Samples with x≥ 0.25 show bulk superconductivity. The onset of
superconductivity on the underdoped side is signaled by a rather sharp
kink (at $T_{c}^{\rm on}$) followed by a broad peak, which has the
opposite sign of the anomaly at the structural transition. We use an
area-conserving construction [see Fig. 2 (e)] to define a
$T_{c}^{\rm mid}$. On the overdoped side (x = 0.33), the anomaly at
T_(c) has the usual, steplike shape expected at a second-order phase
transiton, and $T_{c}^{\rm on}$ and $T_{c}^{\rm end}$ nearly coincide.
Note that the sign of the thermal-expansion anomaly allows us to assign
a sample uniquely to lying either on the underdoped or on the overdoped
side. The anomalies of the thermal-expansion coefficient along the c
axis [Fig. 1 (c)] have similar shape but opposite sign as compared to
the in-plane measurements in all cases. It is important to note that the
anomalies of the α_(i)’s have the same sign and exhibit a very similar
shape as reported for the Ba(Fe_(1 − x)Co_(x))₂As₂ (Co-Ba122) system.
[9, 22, 23] Since α_(i) ∝ −dS/dp_(i) (uniaxial pressure derivatives of
the entropy), this shows that the entropy of the two systems responds
similarly to uniaxial pressure. This will be discussed in more detail in
Sec. VI.

The strikingly different shape of the superconducting transition of
underdoped and overdoped samples is also seen in other measurements.
Figure 2 shows the superconducting transition of the underdoped (x =
0.27) and overdoped (x = 0.33) P-Ba122 samples in the dc magnetization,
the electronic specific heat (derived by subtracting the lattice heat
capacity of an undoped Ba122 sample), and the thermal expansion. For
underdoped BaFe₂(As_(0.73)P_(0.27))₂, there is a sharp onset at
$T_{c}^{\rm on}$ in all three data sets, however, the main anomaly
appears very broad and rounded. The approximate transition width is
10-15 K. On the other hand, overdoped BaFe₂(As_(0.67)P_(0.33))₂ exhibits
sharp, steplike anomalies of α, C_(p), and M at T_(c). A possible origin
of the broadening in the underdoped samples will be presented in Sec.
IV.

## IV Phase diagram

Figure 3 shows the phase diagram compiled from the present thermodynamic
data together with previous work on resistivity [5] of the same system
and thermodynamic data for Co-Ba122 (Refs. [9] and [29]), which have
been scaled so that the optimal doping concentrations of both systems
coincide. $T_{\rm{sm}}$ in the P-substituted system has been determined
uniquely from the c-axis measurements, which we judge to give the most
reliable results because of two reasons. First, the applied pressure
during c-axis measurements is 5-10 times smaller than for in-plane
measurements due to the platelike shape of the crystals. Second, since
c-axis pressure does not directly couple to the orthorhombic order
parameter, the transition should remain sharp and not turn into a
crossover, as for in-plane pressure. [28; 30; 31]

In underdoped P-Ba122, the bulk T_(c) obtained from thermal expansion is
lower than T_(c) inferred from resistivity. Furthermore, the
thermodynamic measurements reveal a very steep slope of T_(c). This may
offer a simple explanation for the broad superconducting transitions of
the underdoped samples of P-Ba122 (Fig. 2). For a given concentration
gradient in the sample, the width of the transition will be directly
related to this slope. For x = 0.25-0.27, the width of T_(c) amounts to
10-15 K, while it is only ∼1 K on the overdoped side. This difference
can thus be explained by the roughly 13 times greater slope of T_(c) on
the underdoped side. However, the sharp kinks at $T_{c}^{\rm{on}}$
remain unexplained. We note that quite broad superconducting transitions
on the underdoped side have also been reported previously from
resistivity [5] and susceptibility [32] measurements.

We have already noted that the response of the entropy to uniaxial
pressure is very similar for P-Ba122 and Co-Ba122. Overall, their phase
diagrams are also very similar, however, they also show some
differences. First, on the underdoped side, the bulk T_(c) rises more
steeply in P-Ba122 than in the Co-doped system. This may be a signature
of a stronger competition between the SDW and the superconducting phase.
A steep rise of the transition line signals that two phases differ
little in entropy so that only a significant increase of temperature
triggers the transition. This means that here, superconductivity is not
much "weaker" than magnetism, and a strong influence of the two types of
order on each other is expected.

A second difference of the phase diagrams of P-Ba122 and Co-Ba122 is
that the splitting of the magnetostructural transition is much smaller
or even nonexistent in the P-substituted system. The reduced magnitude
of the splitting may be explained by less scattering in the
P-substituted samples. [12] A reduction of the splitting with decreasing
disorder has been reported previously in the 1111 systems. [33] Finally,
on the overdoped side, T_(c) is uniformly higher for P substitution than
for Co substitution, possibly also due to less disorder.

Figure 1: (Color online) Uniaxial thermal-expansion coefficients α_(i)
as a function of temperature T for (a) twinned in-plane and (b)
detwinned measurements (along the b axis) and (c) along the c axis for
various substitution levels as indicated in panel (a). Arrows indicate
examples of the temperature of the magnetostructural transition
$T_{\rm{sm}}$ and $T_{c}^{\rm{on}}$. (d) Magnified view of the
low-temperature region of (a). (e) and (f) show a comparison of twinned,
detwinned, and c-axis data around the magnetostructural transition
temperature for x = 0.18 and 0.25, respectively.

## V Interplay of orthorhombicity, SDW, and superconductivity

In the following, we will use our thermal-expansion data to study the
interplay between structural/magnetic and superconducting order
parameters. As an example, Fig. 4 shows the relative length changes of
the x = 0.25 sample. We note that only the b and the c axes can be
measured directly. The a axis is derived from the difference between
in-plane twinned and destinned data, and the orthorhombic order
parameter δ = (a − b)/(a + b) (inset of Fig. 4) is derived from the
difference between the a and b axes.

The a and b axis lengths start to differ clearly at the structural
transition, and this difference is directly proportional to the
structural order parameter in this system. There exists a
high-temperature tail to the transition, which arises from the small
applied in-plane pressure of the order of 5-10 MPa.[30; 31] Clearly, a
and b axes approach each other again below T_(c) and the orthorhombic
order parameter decreases, suggesting a similar coupling of structural
and superconducting order parameters as observed in Co-Ba122 (Ref.
[16]). Interestingly, the c-axis length increases below $T_{\rm sm}$ and
then decreases below T_(c), and thus exhibits a very similar behavior as
the in-plane axes. We note that the effect of these transitions on the
volume is very small (see Fig. 4) due to an almost complete cancellation
of the anomalies along the different directions.

In Figs. 5 and 6, we show the temperature-dependent length changes of
the b and c axes, respectively, for different doping levels. Please note
that we do not show the calculated a-axis data, and thus the
orthorhombic order parameter, for all doping levels because partial
detwinning occurred during some of the twinned measurements, which
results in some uncertainty in this procedure. However, the temperature
dependence of δ is also reflected in the (negative) b-axis length since
the a and b axes are found to evolve nearly symmetrically.

The parameter $\Delta b_{\rm tot}$, defined to quantify the total change
of the b-axis length due to the magnetostructural transition, is shown
in the inset of Fig. 5. $\Delta b_{\rm tot}$ decreases linearly with P
content confirming reliable detwinning. Exceptions are the samples with
x = 0.26 and 0.27. Even though the transition temperatures are similar,
$\Delta b_{\rm tot}$ is much smaller for these samples and does not
follow T_(s) any more. Possibly, only a part of the sample undergoes the
magnetostructural transition. Similarly, NMR found evidence that a
fraction of a collection of samples with x = 0.25 does not undergo the
SDW transition.[32] Hence, we exclude the samples with x = 0.26 and 0.27
in the analysis of the electronic part of the thermal expansion (Sec.
VI).

The "electronic c-axis length changes" $\Delta L_{c}^{\rm el}$ shown in
Fig. 6(b) are obtained by subtracting the x = 1 data as lattice
background using a correction factor to account for the uncertainties in
the measurements.[34] We use the x = 1 data as a lattice background
because pure BaFe₂P₂ does not undergo any phase transitions and,
additionally, the electronic contribution to its thermal expansion is
negligibly small compared to the effects discussed here.

The coupling between SDW order and superconductivity can be directly
observed in both b-axis and c-axis data shown in

Figure 3: (Color online) Thermodynamic phase diagrams of P-Ba122 (lower
axis) compiled from the present thermal-expansion data and of Co-Ba122
(upper axis) scaled so that the maximum T_(c)’s coincide. Data for
Co-Ba122 were obtained from specific-heat (Ref. [29]) and
thermal-expansion (Ref. [9]) measurements. Also added are previously
published resistivity data (Ref. [5]) on the P-Ba122 system (onset of
superconducting transition $T_{c}^{\rm sm}$ and temperature where zero
resistivity is achieved $T_{c}^{\rm sm}$).

Figure 2: (Color online) The superconducting transition of samples with
x = 0.27 (underdoped, left column) and x = 0.33 (overdoped, right
column) seen by different probes. Magnetization [panels (a) and (b)],
specific heat [panels (c) and (d)], and thermal expansion [panels (e)
and (f)] all show a broad superconducting transition with a sharp onset
for the underdoped sample and more standard, sharp anomalies for the
overdoped sample. The lines in panels (c)–(f) represent idealized
second-order transitions.

Figs. 5 and 6. For both axes, the effect of superconductivity is to
reduce the SDW induced distortions in the lattice parameters, strongly
suggesting that both phases coexist and compete with each other. This is
very similar to the direct coupling of the structural orthorhombic and
superconducting order parameters observed previously in Co-doped Ba122
(Ref. [16]). Especially of interest in our data is that the behavior of
$\Delta L_{c}^{\rm el}$ also closely resembles the behavior of the the
orthorhombic order parameter. Although it is not clear how, or if at
all, the c-axis response can be directly linked to the
structural/magnetic order parameters, our results show that the SDW
state favors a longer c axis. Equivalently, compressing the c axis by
uniaxial pressure will destabilize magnetism. This is in agreement with
density functional theory (DFT) calculations under uniaxial
pressure.[35] The decrease of the c-axis length upon entering the
superconducting state is thus consistent with a suppression of magnetism
by superconductivity.

Intriguingly, the lattice parameters of the overdoped x = 0.33 sample
respond in an opposite way to the onset of superconductivity as compared
to the underdoped samples. We find that the superconducting state in the
absence of static magnetic order in fact favors a longer c axis in a
similar manner as does the SDW state of underdoped P-Ba122. The same
effect, although much smaller in magnitude, is also seen for the
in-plane dimension: The in-plane length of overdoped P-Ba122 decreases
(slightly) in response to superconductivity, as does the average
in-plane length of the underdoped material upon entering the SDW state.
The similar response of the lattice parameters to SDW and
superconductivity in the absence of SDW order actually may hint at a
kinship of both ordering phenomena, despite their competitive
relationship in the coexistence region. In Co-Ba122, this is also
suggested by nearly identical Gruneisen-parameters of the two phases.[9]

Finally, we address the question of microscopic coexistence of magnetism
and superconductivity. Dilatometry is a macroscopic probe, and the T
dependence of a sample length can not _a priori_ be equated with the T
dependence of the lattice parameters if one has a phase-separated
sample. Still, the close resemblance between our results and the
evolution of lattice parameters of Co-Ba122 observed by x-ray
diffraction[16] is most naturally explained by homogeneous coexistence
and competition of magnetism and superconductivity also in P-Ba122. This
is in agreement with recent NMR study[32] on P-Ba122, which also
concluded that SDW and superconductivity coexist microscopically but
compete with each other.

Figure 4: (Color online) Relative change of sample length of the
BaFe₂(As_(0.75)P_(0.25))₂ sample, measured in the twinned (in-plane
average, black line) and detwinned (b axis, red line) configuration and
along the c axis (blue line). The a-axis length (broken purple line) was
estimated from the twinned and detwinned in-plane measurements and the
volume change (green broken line) from the twinned in-plane and the
c-axis measurements. The inset shows the difference of a axis and b
axis. For this sample, $T_{\rm sm}=48.5$ K and $T_{c}^{\rm sm}=16$ K.

Figure 5: (Color online) Relative change of the b-axis length (in-plane
length for the overdoped samples) for various doping levels. Its
shortening signals the magnetostructural transition, and its increase
below T_(c) for the superconducting samples demonstrates the competition
between the orthorhombic phase and superconductivity. The upper inset
shows the data for x = 0.33 on an expanded vertical scale. The lower
inset shows the doping evolution of $\Delta b_{\rm tot}$ as defined in
the main panel. The reference lines for the determination of
$\Delta b_{\rm tot}$ (dashed black lines) are a smooth extrapolation.
The upper line is provided by the data for x = 1 scaled with a constant
factor.

Figure 6: (Color online) (a) Relative change of the c-axis length for
various doping levels. Panel (b) shows the data after subtraction of a
background (the data for x = 1 times an individual factor close to 1,
see text and Ref. [34]).

## VI Uniaxial Pressure Effects

For second-order phase transitions, uniaxial pressure derivatives of the
transition temperature dT_(c)/dp_(i) can be deduced from the jumps of
the thermal-expansion coefficient Δα_(i) and the specific heat ΔC_(p).
For the overdoped, tetragonal sample (x = 0.33, T_(c) = 29 K), clear
second-order jumps in the uniaxial thermal-expansion coefficients
Δα_(a) = 0.9(2) × 10⁻⁶ K⁻¹, Δα_(c) = −4.0(5) × 10⁻⁶ K⁻¹, and the
specific heat ΔC_(p)/T_(c) = 38(4) mJ mol⁻¹ K⁻² are observed (see Fig.
2). The magnitude of the specific-heat jump is in good agreement with
data of a recent report by Chaparro _et al._[36]dT_(c)/dp_(i) can be
calculated via the Ehrenfest relation

$$\frac{dT_{c}}{dp_{i}}=V_{m}\frac{\Delta\alpha_{i}}{\Delta C_{p}/T_{c}},$$
(1)

where V_(m) = 59.6 cm³/mol (Ref. [5]) is the molar volume. The data
yield dT_(c)/dp_(a) = 1.4(5) K/GPa and dT_(c)/dp_(c) = −6.3(1.2) K/GPa.
The hydrostatic pressure derivative
dT_(c)/dp = 2dT_(c)/dp_(a) + dT_(c)/dp_(c) = −3.5(2.2) K/GPa is in
reasonable agreement with high-pressure experiments [37] which report an
initial slope of dT_(c)/dp = −1.8 K/GPa for a sample with T_(c) = 30.5
K. The same kind of anisotropy and a similar magnitude of the uniaxial
pressure derivatives have been observed for a slightly overdoped
Co-Ba122 crystal. [22] The pressure derivatives on the underdoped side
are more difficult to extract due to the large widths of the
transitions. However, it is clear that the dT_(c)/dp_(i)’s are of
opposite sign and by far larger in magnitude than those of the overdoped
sample. Using the construction for the jumps shown in Fig. 2(e), we find
for the x = 0.27 sample dT_(c)/dp_(ab) = −18(8) K/GPa,
dT_(c)/dp_(b) = −44(17) K/GPa, and dT_(c)/dp_(c) = 20(8) K/GPa. Here,
p_(ab) refers to an average of pressure along the a and b axes, as is
relevant to the twinned in-plane measurements.

Since ΔC_(p) is always positive, the sign of the anomalies in the α_(i)
provide information on the anisotropy of the dT_(c)/dp_(i) even in the
absence of specific-heat data. Strikingly, the uniaxial pressure
derivatives of $T_{\rm sm}$ have the opposite sign to the derivatives of
T_(c) for all directions. [24] This is again consistent with a
competition between the orthorhombic SDW phase and superconductivity
since pressure will favor either the SDW or superconducting phase at the
expense of the other. Interestingly, all signs of the derivatives can be
accounted for by identifying uniaxial pressure with a shift in the P
content: stress along the c axis (and a axis on the underdoped side)
corresponds to an increased P content, while stress along the b axis
(averaged in-plane axis) corresponds to a lower P content. This means
that the phase diagram may be tracked (forwards or backwards) by the
application of uniaxial pressure just as it can be tracked by
hydrostatic pressure. [7] By comparing the values of dT_(c)/dp_(i)
obtained above with the respective slopes in the phase diagram
dT_(c)/dx = 6.7 K/at.

Thermal-expansion data can also be used to obtain information about the
(uniaxial) pressure dependence of the electronic density of states. For
a Fermi liquid, the electronic thermal expansion divided by T,
$\alpha_{i}^{\rm el}/T$, is expected to be a constant
$\alpha_{\rm el,i}/T=-(1/V_{m})d\gamma/dp_{i}$, with γ the Sommerfeld
coefficient. [This follows directly from α_(i) = −(1/V_(m))dγ/dp_(i) and
the electronic specific heat C = γ T.] Figure 7 shows the
electronic/magnetic thermal-expansion coefficients
$\alpha_{i}^{\rm el}/T\propto-d\gamma/dp_{i}$, which were obtained from
the original data by subtracting the data for x = 1 as a phonon
background using no correction factor (see Sec. V). With increasing
doping, a sizable contribution from electronic/magnetic degrees of
freedom evolves below the SDW transition for all three crystal
directions. Especially for the x = 0.18 data, this contribution is
nearly independent of temperature up to about 60 K, consistent with
Fermi-liquid-type behavior. This is reminiscent of what is observed in
weak itinerant ferromagnetic systems, such as MnSi (Ref. [39]), and
points to an intricate mixing of highly pressure-dependent electronic
and magnetic degrees of freedom. For x = 0.25, $T_{\rm sm}$ and T_(c)
are too close to each other so that this constant term in
$\alpha_{\rm el}/T$ is not seen.

Panel (a) of Fig. 8 shows $\alpha_{i}^{\rm el}/T(T=0)$, obtained by
extrapolating the normal state $\alpha_{i}^{\rm el}/T$ data to zero, and
corresponding dγ/dp_(i) values versus P substitution. There is a

Figure 7: (Color online) The electronic contribution to the uniaxial
thermal-expansion coefficients divided by T, $\alpha_{\rm el}/T$,
obtained from subtracting the data of the x = 1 sample as a phonon
background (a) in the twinned in-plane measurements, (b) along the
orthorhombic b axis (detwinned in-plane measurements), and (c) along the
c axis. Arrows and dashed lines indicate how values of the normal state
$\alpha_{i}^{\rm el}/T(T=0)$, which are reported in Fig. 8, are
extracted.

sharp increase in the magnitude of dγ/dp_(i) upon approaching optimal
doping and a sign change when passing to the overdoped side. The
discontinuity of the derivatives dγ/dp_(i) at optimal doping is also
suggested from an analogy with the Co-doped system.[9, 29] We can obtain
γ as a function of x from integration of these data if, as before, we
equate doping with pressure. We recall that we can link average in-plane
(c-axis) pressure to a decreased (increased) P content. As is evident
from the sign change then, γ(x) has a maximum at optimal doping. More
quantitatively, the proportionality factors from above
[dp_(ab)/dx = −0.35 GPa/at.

## VII Conclusions

We have studied the isovalently substituted system P-Ba122 by means of
high-resolution thermal-expansion measurements. Using these data, we
have determined the phase diagram via a thermodynamic probe, have
studied the coupling of the SDW and superconducting order parameters,
and have determined various pressure dependencies of the normal and
superconducting states. Overall, we find surprisingly many similarities
between the P-Ba122 thermal-expansion data and those of the supposedly
electron-doped Co-Ba122 system. Not only the phase diagrams, but also
the uniaxial pressure derivatives of the transition temperatures, as
well as the coupling of the order parameters, turn out to be very
similar in both systems. Both kinds of substitution can also be directly
linked to uniaxial pressure, and both systems display a maximum of the
Sommerfeld coefficient at optimal doping. This begs the question of why
these systems behave so similar, in spite of the presumably different
routes (chemical pressure versus electron doping) to superconductivity.
Recent studies by Zinth _et al._,[40] in which Ba122 was codoped with
both Co and P, may actually throw some light on this question. These
authors found that Co and P substitutions act in an additive fashion for
suppressing SDW order and inducing superconductivity, whereas the
opposite behavior was found for Co and K substitutions.[41] Further, it
was argued that P content and physical pressure are also additive[7] and
that the primary effect of both is to reduce the Fe-As(P) bond
length.[40] In fact, Co-Ba122 also exhibits a very similar decrease of
this bond length with Co doping,[8] which may explain why both kinds of
substitutions act in a similar and additive manner. This may also
explain the similarities of the uniaxial pressure effects determined in
both systems using thermal-expansion data (this work and Ref. [9]).
Uniaxial pressure applied along the c axis, which most likely reduces
the Fe-As distance and, as we have shown here, is proportional to P
substitution, is predicted by the Ehrenfest relation to suppress the SDW
order in both systems. This, we note, is in good agreement with recent
theoretical predictions of the pure Ba122 system under uniaxial
pressure.[35] Finally, we suggest that further detailed studies of the
Fermi surface as a function of (uniaxial) pressure and doping are needed
to better disentangle the distinct roles of doping and structural
changes (i.e., chemical pressure) in determining the electronic
properties of these interesting materials.

###### Acknowledgements.

We cordially thank J. Schmalian, T. Iye, and I. Eremin for discussions.
This work was supported by the Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft through
SPP 1458, by the Research Grants Council of Hong Kong, Grants No. 603010
and No. SEG_HKUST03, and by a Grant-in-Aid for the GCOE program "The
Next Generation of Physics, Spun from Universality and Emergence" from
MEXT, Japan.

Figure 8: (Color online) (a) Values of the electronic thermal
expansivity σ_(d, i)/T extrapolated to zero temperature. The right-hand
scale shows the corresponding values of dγ/dp_(i). Lines are a guide to
the eye. (b) The Sommerfeld coefficient γ obtained by integrating the
smooth lines from (a) (black line) (see text for details). Full squares
indicate directly measured values of γ and open squares indicate values
estimated from the measured specific-heat jump (Ref. [36]) (see also
Ref. [38]).

* [1] M. Rotter, M. Tegel, and D. Johrendt, Phys. Rev. Lett. **101**,
107006 (2008). * [2] A. S. Sefat, R. Jin, M. A. McGuire, B. C. Sales, D.
J. Singh, and D. Mandrus, Phys. Rev. Lett. **101**, 117004 (2008). * [3]
S. Sharma, A. Barathi, S. Chandra, V. R. Reddy, S. Paulraj, A. T. Satya,
V. S. Sastry, A. Gupta, and C. S. Sundar, Phys. Rev. B **81**, 174512
(2010). * [4] S. Jiang, H. Xing, G. Xuan, C. Wang, Z. Ren, C. Feng, J.
Dai, Z. Xu, and G. Cao, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter **21**, 382203
(2008). * [5] S. Kasahara, T. Shibauchi, K. Hashimoto, K. Ikada, S.
Tonegawa, R. Okazaki, H. Shishido, H. Ikeda, H. Takeya, K. Hirata, T.
Terashima, and Y. Matsuda, Phys. Rev. B **81**, 184519 (2010). * [6] P.
L. Alireza, Y. T. C. Ko, J. Gillett, C. M. Petrone, J. M. Cole, G. G.
Lonzarich, and S. E. Sebastian, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter **21**, 012208
(2009). * [7] L. E. Klintberg, S. K. Goh, S. Kasahara, Y. Nakai, K.
Ishida, M. Sutherland, T. Shibauchi, Y. Matsuda, and T. Terashima, J.
Phys. Soc. Jpn. **79**, 123706 (2010). * [8] S. Drotziger, P. Schweiss,
K. Grube, T. Wolf, P. Adelmann, C. Meingast, and H. v. Lohneysen, J.
Phys. Soc. Jpn. **79**, 124705 (2010). * [9] C. Meingast, F. Hardy, R.
Heid, P. Adelmann, A. Bohmer, P. Burger, D. Ernst, R. Fromknecht, P.
Schweiss, and T. Wolf, Phys. Rev. Lett. **108**, 177004 (2012). * [10]
H. Shishido, A. F. Bangura, A. I. Coldea, S. Tonegawa, K. Hashimoto, S.
Kasahara, P. M. C. Rourke, H. Ikeda, T. Terashima, R. Settai, Y. Onuki,
D. Vignolles, C. Proust, B. Vignolle, A. McCollam, Y. Matsuda, T.
Shibauchi, and A. Carrington, Phys. Rev. Lett. **104**, 057008 (2010). *
[11] J. G. Analytis, J.-H. Chu, R. D. McDonald, S. C. Riggs, and I. R.
Fisher, Phys. Rev. Lett. **105**, 207004 (2010). * [12] C. J. van der
Beek, M. Konczykowski, S. Kasahara, T. Terashima, R. Okazaki, T.
Shibauchi, and Y. Matsuda, Phys. Rev. Lett. **105**, 267002 (2010). *
[13] Y. Nakai, T. Iye, S. Kitagawa, K. Ishida, H. Ikeda, S. Kasahara, H.
Shishido, T. Shibauchi, Y. Matsuda, and T. Terashima, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**105**, 107003 (2010). * [14] D. K. Pratt, W. Tian, A. Kreyssig, J. L.
Zarestky, S. Nandi, N. Ni, S. L. Bud’ko, P. C. Canfield, A. I. Goldman,
and R. J. McQueeney, Phys. Rev. Lett. **103**, 087001 (2009). * [15] A.
D. Christianson, M. D. Lumsden, S. E. Nagler, G. J. McDougall, M. A.
McGuire, A. S. Sefat, R. Jin, B. C. Sales, and D. Mandrus, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **103**, 087002 (2009). * [16] S. Nandi, M. G. Kim, A. Kreyssig,
R. M. Fernandes, D. K. Pratt, A. Thaler, N. Ni, S. L. Bud’ko, P. C.
Canfield, J. Schmalian, R. J. McQueeney, and A. I. Goldman, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **104**, 057006 (2010). * [17] R. M. Fernandes and J. Schmalian,
Phys. Rev. B **82**, 014521 (2010). * [18] H. Luetkens, H.-H. Klauss, M.
Kraken, F. J. Litterst, T. Dellmann, R. Klingeler, C. Hess, R. Khasanov,
A. Amato, C. Baines, M. Kosmala, O. J. Schumann, M. Braden, J.
Hamann-Borrero, N. Leps, A. Kondrat, G. Behr, J. Werner, and B. Buchner,
Nat. Mater. **8**, 305 (2009). * [19] J. T. Park, D. S. Inosov, C.
Niedermayer, G. L. Sun, D. Haug, N. B. Christensen, R. Dinnebier, A. V.
Boris, A. J. Drew, L. Schulz, T. Shapoval, U. Wolff, V. Neu, X. Yang, C.
T. Lin, B. Keimer, and V. Hinkov, Phys. Rev. Lett. **102**, 117006
(2009). * [20] D. S. Inosov, A. Leineweber, X. Yang, J. T. Park, N. B.
Christensen, R. Dinnebier, G. L. Sun, C. Niedermayer, D. Haug, P. W.
Stephens, J. Stahn, O. Khovostikova, C. T. Lin, O. K. Andersen, B.
Keimer, and V. Hinkov, Phys. Rev. B **79**, 224503 (2009). * [21] E.
Wiesenmayer, H. Luetkens, G. Pascua, R. Khasanov, A. Amato, H. Potts, B.
Banusch, H.-H. Klauss, and D. Johrendt, Phys. Rev. Lett. **107**, 237001
(2011). * [22] F. Hardy, P. Adelmann, T. Wolf, H. v. Lohneysen, and C.
Meingast, Phys. Rev. Lett. **102**, 187004 (2009). * [23] S. L. Bud’ko,
N. Ni, S. Nandi, G. M. Schmiedeshoff, and P. C. Canfield, Phys. Rev. B
**79**, 054525 (2009). * [24] A. E. Bohmer, P. Burger, F. Hardy, T.
Wolf, P. Schweiss, R. Fromknecht, H. v. Lohneysen, C. Meingast, S.
Kasahara, T. Terashima, T. Shibauchi, and Y. Matsuda, J. Phys. Conf.
Ser. (to be published). * [25] C. Meingast, B. Blank, H. Burkle, B.
Obst, T. Wolf, H. Wuhl, V. Selvamanickam, and K. Salama, Phys. Rev. B
**41**, 11299 (1990). * [26] I. R. Fisher, L. Degiorgi, and Z. X. Shen,
Rep. Prog. Phys **74**, 124506 (2011). * [27] E. van Heumen, R. Lortz,
A. B. Kuzmenko, F. Carbone, D. van der Marel, X. Zhao, G. Yu, Y. Cho, N.
Barisic, M. Greven, C. C. Homes, and S. V. Dordevic, Phys. Rev. B
**75**, 054522 (2007). * [28] J. Hu, C. Setty, and S. Kivelson, Phys.
Rev. B **85**, 100507(R) (2012). * [29] F. Hardy, P. Burger, T. Wolf, R.
Fisher, P. Schweiss, P. Adelmann, R. Heid, R. Fromknecht, R. Eder, D.
Ernst, H. v. Lohneysen, and C. Meingast, Europhys. Lett. **91**, 47008
(2010). * [30] E. C. Blomberg, A. Kreyssig, M. A. Tanatar, R. M.
Fernandes, M. G. Kim, A. Thaler, J. Schmalian, S. L. Bud’ko, P. C.
Canfield, A. I. Goldman, and R. Prozorov, Phys. Rev. B. **85**, 144509
(2012). * [31] C. Dhital, Z. Yamani, W. Tian, J. Zeretsky, A. S. Sefat,
Z. Wang, R. J. Birgeneau, and S. D. Wilson, Phys. Rev. Lett. **108**,
087001 (2012). * [32] T. Iye, Y. Nakai, S. Kitagawa, K. Ishida, S.
Kasahara, T. Shibauchi, Y. Matsuda, and T. Terashima, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn.
**81**, 033701 (2012). * [33] A. Jesche, C. Krellner, M. de Souza, M.
Lang, and C. Geibel, Phys. Rev. B **81**, 134525 (2010). * [34] We
assume that the high-temperature value of α_(c) is doping independent,
as seems to be the case for α_(in,phase). Variations of the measured
high-temperature value of α_(c) are attributed to uncertainties arising
from the tiny sample lengths along c (∼70-150 μm). These deviations can
be modeled with a correction factor between 0.9 and 1.3 to the lattice
contribution for the different samples. The correction does not affect
the shape of the anomalies. * [35] M. Tomic, R. Valenti, and H. O.
Jeschke, Phys. Rev. B **85**, 094105 (2012). * [36] C. Chaparro, L.
Fang, H. Claus, A. Rydh, G. W. Crabtree, V. Stanev, W. K. Kwok, and U.
Welp, Phys. Rev. B **85**, 184525 (2012). * [37] S. K. Goh, Y. Nakai, K.
Ishida, L. E. Klintberg, Y. Ihara, S. Kasahara, T. Shibauchi, Y.
Matsuda, and T. Terashima, Phys. Rev. B **82**, 094502 (2010). * [38]
Measured values of γ are taken from Fig. 2 for x = 0.27 and 0.33 and
from Ref. 29 for x = 0. Values for x = 0.30, 0.33, 0.45, 0.5, and 0.55
are (also) obtained from the measured specific-heat jump ΔC/T_(c) (Ref.
36) using the empirical linear relationship ΔC/γT_(c) = 0.066 K⁻¹T_(c)
valid for Co-Ba122 (Ref. 29). * [39] M. Matsunaga, Y. Ishikawa, and T.
Nakajima, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **51**, 1153 (1982). * [40] V. Zinth and D.
Johrendt, Europhys. Lett. **98**, 57010 (2012). * [41] V. Zinth, T.
Dellmann, H.-H. Klauss, and D. Johrendt, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. **50**,
7919 (2011).
