# Origin of the _R_-ion effect on _T_c in _R_Ba2Cu3O7

J. G. Lin and C. Y. Huang

Department of Physics, National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan,
Republic of China

Y. Y. Xue and C. W. Chu

Texas Center for Superconductivity at University of Houston, Houston,
Texas 77204-5932

X. W. Cao* and J. C. Ho

Department of Physics and National Institute for Aviation Research,
Wichita State University, Wichita, Kansas 68260-0032

5 December 1994

###### Abstract

_T_c and _dT_c/_dP_ have been systematically measured for fully
oxygenated _R_Ba2Cu3O7-_d_ (_R_-123) with R = Yb, Tm, Ho, Dy, Gd, Sm,
and Nd. _T_c has been observed to increase from 88 to 94 K with
increasing radius of the R ion (_r_) from 0.98 to 1.12 A. Based on the
lattice strains and our _dT_c/_dP_ data, we have calculated _T_c for the
series of _R_-123 and compared them with the measured _T_c. Good
agreement between the experimental and the calculated results strongly
suggests that the R effect on _T_c in _R_-123 originates from the
strain-induced charge redistribution between the charge reservoir and
the CuO2 plane.

While the microscopic mechanism of high-temperature superconductors
(HTS) is still elusive, the electronic structure of relevant cuprates
has been characterized by a phase-diagram of temperature (_T_) and the
carrier concentration (_n_).1 This _T_-_n_ diagram shows that the
superconductivity occurs in a certain range of n, and the
superconducting transition temperature (_T_c) is approximately a
parabolic function of n. From the structural point of view, it is widely
believed that the CuO2 plane is the principal site for the
superconducting activity, and the metal oxide (i.e., _M_O, where M is
Cu, La, Hg, Tl, or Bi serves as a charge reservoir to supply carriers
into the CuO2 plane. Other structural components such as rare-earth and
alkaline elements work as counter cations to stabilize the structure.
However, some evidences2-4 have shown that the influence of rare-earth
elements (_R_) on _T_c should not be ignored. For YBa2Cu3O7 (Y-123), it
was demonstrated that the substitution of some magnetic R ions have no
significant effect on _T_c,5 thus leading to an assumption that the R
site in the _R_-123 structure was electronically isolated from
conduction electrons. Although a _T_c variation in the series of
oxygenated _R_-123 had been noticed by Neumeier,6 the relatively large
scattering in the values of _T_c made a quantitative analysis difficult.
Later, the work by Fernandes _et al.7_ with a good control of sample
quality showed that the _T_c value for fully oxygenated
Gd1-_x_Y_xBa2Cu3O7 decreased linearly with increasing x. This result
confirmed a significant R effect on _T_c in _R_-123. Very recently,
Ramesh and Hedge8 reported that, based on a calculation of the
bond-valence sums for _R_-123, the valence of the in-plane copper Cu(2)
increases with decreasing radius of the R ion (_r_), implying an
increase of carrier concentration in the CuO2 plane with decreasing r.
Then, the combination of the experimental results of Fernandes _et al._
and the calculation of Ramesh and Hedge gives rise to a conclusion that
_T_c can be lower when n is higher in the series of _R_-123. This
conclusion contradicts with the general belief that _T_c should increase
with increasing carrier concentration and raises an interesting issue
regarding the relationship between _T_c and n in these materials. We
therefore have performed a systematic measurement of _T_c and pressure
effect of _T_c for a series of fully-oxygenated _R_-123 samples with an
attempt to delineate the implication of the R effect on _T_c.

In this work, polycrystalline _R_Ba2Cu3O7-_d_ with R = Yb, Tm, Ho, Dy,
Gd, Sm, and Nd were prepared by the standard solid-state reaction
technique. The oxygen contents of fully oxygenated samples were
determined by the idemotric titration method to be 6.97 +- 0.03 for all
samples. X-ray powder diffraction was employed to confirm the phase
purity of the samples, and the Meissner effect at field cooling was
measured to check their homogeneity. The sample was individually sealed
in a Teflon cell with 3M Florinert fluid as pressure medium and the cell
was contained in a Be-Cu high-pressure bomb to generate hydrostatic
pressure, P, up to 1.8 GPa. The standard four-point method was employed
for resistivity measurements. _T_c was defined as the temperature at
which the electrical resistivity drops to 50

Figure 1 displays _T_c as a function of r, with the attached bars
representing the resistive transition widths. It indicates a _T_c
increase from 87.9 to 94.4 K with increasing r from 0.98 to 1.12 A. In
Fig. 1, the open bar refers the _T_c of Y-123 obtained by Neumeier and
Zimmermann.10 Figure 2 shows the _r_(_T_) curves for a typical _R_-123
sample (Gd-123) at vari ous pressures. For all measured R-123, the
normal state ρ is decreased by the application of pressure, and the d
lnρ/dP at normal state is found to be 10± 2

Figure 1: T_(c) vs ionic radius of R for various R-123. Ionic radii are
taken from Ref. [15]. The solid circles represent the measured T_(c)
values with the vertical bars showing the transition widths, and the
open bar is the data for Y-123 for reference.

Figure 4: dT_(c)/dP vs r for R-123. Vertical solid bars include the
obtained data and the estimated uncertainties while the open bar is the
data of Y-123 for reference.

Figure 3: T_(c) vs pressure (P) for various R-123. The symbols represent
the experimental data, and the solid lines are the guidance for eyes.
Data marked with Yb-123* is the pressure effect on T₀.

(as shown in Fig. 1). This similarity implies a close correlation
between dT_(c)/dP and T_(c) .

Based on a change in lattice parameters due to the R substitution in
R-123,[12] the effect of lattice expansion (for larger R) or lattice
contraction (for smaller R) should play an important role in the T_(c)
variation. In principle, the change of the lattice parameters may induce
a strain in the unit cell, and a lattice strain can be simulated by the
application of external pressure along three crystal axes. According to
the result of the uniaxial pressure effect on T_(c) for Y-123,[13] the
effect of hydrostatic pressure on T_(c) is essentially a summation of
the uniaxial stresses along the a, b, and c directions. By analogy with
the uniaxial pressure effect, we postulate a formula to calculate the
T_(c) variation based on the changes in the lattice parameters a, b, and
c with respect to a reference material:

$$T_{c}-T_{c}^{\prime}=\frac{\partial T_{c}}{\partial\varepsilon_{1}}\frac{a-a_ {0}}{a}+\frac{\partial T_{c}}{\partial\varepsilon_{2}}\frac{b-b_{0}}{b}+ \frac{\partial T_{c}}{\partial\varepsilon_{3}}\frac{c-c_{0}}{c}$$
(1)

where T_(c)^(′), a₀, b₀, and c₀ are the T_(c) and lattice parameters for
a reference material and ε₁, ε₂, and ε₃ denote the strains along the a,
b, and c directions, respectively. Here ∂T_(c)/∂ε_(i) is related to the
uniaxial pressure effect ∂T_(c)/∂P_(i) (j = 1,2,3) by

$$\frac{\partial T_{c}}{\partial\varepsilon_{i}}=-\sum_{j}\,C_{ll}\frac{ \partial T_{c}}{\partial P_{j}}$$
(2)

in which C_(ll) are the components of the elastic tensor and have been
determined for the untwinned Y-123 single crystal.[14] We have chosen an
untwinned Y-123 single crystal as our reference material, and have
calculated the relative changes of lattice parameters for other R-123
based on their lattice parameters determined from the neutron powder
diffraction (NPD).[8] The results are listed in the first three columns
of Table 1 with a₀, b₀, and c₀ being the lattice parameters of Y-123 and
equaling 3.817, 3.883, and 11.633 A, respectively. In Ref. [13], the
uniaxial pressure data of the Y-123 single crystal were obtained:
dT_(c)/dP_(a) = − 2.0 K/GPa, dT_(c)/dP_(b) = 1.9 K/GPa, and
dT_(c)/dP_(c) = − 0.3 K/GPa, and then the values of ∂T_(c)/∂ε₁,
∂T_(c)/∂ε₂, and ∂T_(c)/∂ε₃ were derived as 230, −220, and 18 K,
respectively. We inserted these values into Eq. (1), and obtained the
T_(c) values for the series of R-123 as listed in the fifth column of
Table 1. As shown in Table 1, these calculated T_(c) agree with the
measured values within 1 K except for Yb-123. The discrepancy between
the calculated T_(c) and the measured T_(c) for Yb-123 is understandable
since the Yb-123 sample used for the NPD measurement in Ref. [8] was
later found to be multiphased.

Although we have shown that the lattice strains could account for the
observed T_(c) variations in R-123, further knowledge of the
relationship between the lattice strains and the carrier concentration
(n) is useful for understanding the mechanism of the T_(c) variations in
these materials. By comparing Fig. 1 with Fig. 4, it is evident that
T_(c) and dT_(c)/dP are correlated as seen from the similarity in their
r dependence. In order to obtain the information of n from the measured
dT_(c)/dP values, we have adopted the model of pressure induced charge
transfer, in which the value of dT_(c)/dP depends on n and the
pressure-induced increase in n.[10] Based on an empirical T_(c)-n curve
found for (Y,La,Ca)-123,[10] we first assume the following parabolic
T_(c)(n) relation to hold for the whole series of R-123:

T_(c) = T_(c0) − A(n₀ − n)².
(3)

Then, the rate of increase of T_(c) with pressure is given by

dT_(c)/dP = dT_(c0)/dP + 2A(n₀ − n)dn/dP,
(4)

where T_(c0) is the maximum T_(c) corresponding to an optimal carrier
concentration (n₀), and dn/dP is the derivative of the number of
carriers with pressure. The empirical values of dT_(c0)/dP, dn/dP, and A
are positive constants. Assuming material is underdoped, i.e.,
(n₀ − n)>0, a larger dT_(c)/dP gives a larger (n₀ − n) in Eq. (4).
According to Eq. (3), a larger (n₀ − n) corresponds to a lower T_(c) .
Then, a material with a larger dT_(c)/dP should have a lower T_(c) .
This is opposite to the observations in Fig. 1 and Fig. 4 where Nd-123
has the highest T_(c) (= 94.4 K) as well as the highest dT_(c)/dP (= 1.2
K/GPa). On the other hand, if one assumes material is overdoped, i.e.,
(n₀ − n)<0, a larger dT_(c)/dP yields a smaller |n₀ − n| and the smaller
|n₀ − n| the higher T_(c) . This trend of dT_(c)/dP vs T_(c) is in
agreement with our observations and thus implies that the series of
R-123 from Nd-123 to Yb-123 is likely to lie in the overdoped region of
the T_(c)-n curve. Since the empirical T_(c0) (∼94.2 K) obtained by
Neumeier and Zimmermann[10] is very close to the T_(c) of Nd-123 (= 94.4
K, the highest T_(c) among R-123), we have chosen dT_(c)/dP of Nd-123 to
be dT_(c0)/dP (i.e., dT_(c0)/dP = 1.2 K/GPa). Using the values of A,
dn/dP from Ref. [11] (590 K/hole², and 0.01 holes/GPa, respectively)
along with our measured dT_(c)/dP, we have deduced (n − n₀) from Eq. (4)
for various R-123. Then, by inserting these values of (n − n₀) into Eq.
(3), we have found T_(c) to be 94.1, 92.1, 91.8, 89.6, and 88.2 K for
Sm-, Dy-, Ho-, Tm-, and Yb-123, respectively. These calculated T_(c)
again agree with the measured ones (as shown in Table 1) within 1 K.
This remarkable agreement clearly demonstrates the applicability of the
parabolic T_(c)(n) function in explaining the T_(c)-r relation for the
series of R-123. We therefore attribute the decrease in T_(c) with
decreasing r to the increase in n. In addition, the variation of n must
come from a charge redistribution between the CuO₂ plane and other
structural components (serving as a charge reservoir) since the oxygen
contents of these material are all 6.97± 0.03. Very recently, Ramesh and
Hedge[8] have shown that the bond valence sum (BVS) of the in-plane
copper increases with decreasing r, while the BVS of the R ion decreases
with decreasing r for a

l r r r r & (a − a₀)/a₀ & (b − b₀)/b₀ & (c − c₀)/c₀ & $T_{c,\rm{calc}}$
& $T_{c,\rm{meas}}$
R & (×10⁻³) & (×10⁻³) & (×10⁻³) & (K) & (K)
Nd & 10.45 & 7.47 & 7.65 & 93.4 & 94.4
Sm & 8.38 & 3.86 & 4.96 & 92.1 & 93.1
Dy & 0.26 & 0.26 & 1.38 & 91.4 & 91.7
Ho & 0.26 & 0.00 & 0.00 & 90.9 & 91.5
Tm & − 4.19 & − 3.09 & − 1.46 & 90.9 & 90.4
Yb & − 5.50 & − 4.38 & − 1.72 & 90.6 & 87.9

Table 1: T_(c) data for various R-123 in comparison with the calculated
value based on the changes in their lattice parameters a, b, and c with
respect to those of Y-123.

series of _R_-123. It is indicative of a strain-induced charge transfer
from the R ion to the CuO₂ plane, resulting to an increase of n with
decreasing r. Therefore it is possible that the R effect on _T__(c) in
_R_-123 originate from the strain-induced charge redistribution between
the R ion and the CuO₂ plane.

In summary, _T__(c) and _dT__(c)/_dP_ for fully oxygenated _R_-123 with
R =Yb, Tm, Y, Ho, Dy, Gd, Sm, and Nd have been systematically measured.
We have observed a nearly linear r dependence of _T__(c) and
_dT__(c)/_dP_, suggesting that the series of _R_-123 is likely to be in
the overdoped region of the _T__(c)-_n_ diagram. We have calculated the
_T__(c) values for _R_-123 based on the relative changes of their
lattice parameters, and also from the measured _dT__(c)/_dP_ data. The
agreement of the calculated _T__(c) with the measured _T__(c) strongly
suggests that the origin of the observed R effect on _T__(c) in _R_-123
is the strain-induced charge redistribution between the charge reservoir
and the CuO₂ plane.

This work was supported in part by the National Science Council of the
R.O.C. under Grant No. NSC-83-0511-M-002-003, the state of Texas through
Texas Center for Superconductivity at the University of Houston, and the
T.L.L. Temple foundation.

## References

* [1] Yashiro Iye, in _Physical Properties of High Temperature
Superconductors III_, edited by Donald M. Ginsberg (World Scientific,
Singapore, 1992), p. 295. * [2] S. Ikegawa, T. Wada, T. Yamashita, H.
Yamauchi, and S. Tanaka, Phys. Rev. B **45**, 5659 (1992). * [3] H. B.
Liu, D. E. Morris, and A. P. Sinha, Phys. Rev. B **42**, 2438 (1989). *
[4] J. M. Tarascon, W. R. Mckinnon, L. H. Greene, G. W. Hull, and E. M.
Vogel, Phys. Rev. B **36**, 226 (1989). * [5] J. M. Tarascon, L. H.
Greene, W. R. Mckinnon, and G. W. Hull, Solid State Commun. **63**, 499
(1989). * [6] J. J. Neumeier, Ph.D. dissertation, University of
California, San Diego, 1990. * [7] A. A. R. Fernandes, J. Santamaria, S.
L. Bud’ko, O. Nakamura, J. Guimpel, and Ivan K. Schuller, Phys. Rev. B
**44**, 7601 (1991). * [8] S. Ramesh and M. S. Hedge, Physica C **230**,
135 (1994). * [9] C. W. Chu, Q. Xiong, J. W. Chu, Y. Y. Sun, H. H. Feng,
S. Bud’ko, and P. H. Hor, in _HTS Materials, Bulk Processing and Bulk
Applications_, edited by C. W. Chu, W. K. Chu, P. H. Hor, and K. Salama
(World Scientific, Singapore, 1992), p. 117. * [10] J. J. Neumeier and
H. A. Zimmermann, Phys. Rev. B **47**, 8385 (1993). * [11] J. S.
Schilling and S. Klotz, in _Physical Properties of High Temperature
Superconductors III_, edited by Donald M. Ginsberg (Ref. 1), p. 112. *
[12] M. Guillaume, P. Allenspach, J. Mesot, B. Roessli, U. Staub, P.
Fisher, and A. Furrer, Phys. Rev. B **90**, 13 (1993). * [13] C.
Meingast, B. Blank, H. Burkle, B. Obst, T. Wolf, H. Wuhl, V.
Selvamanickam, and K. Salama, Phys. Rev. B **41**, 11 299 (1990); U.
Welp, M. Grimsditch, S. Fleshler, W. Nessler, J. Downey, and G. W.
Crabtree, _ibid._**46**, 2130 (1992). * [14] E. Zouboulis, S. Kumer, U.
Welp, C. H. Chen, S. K. Chan, M. Grimsditch, and J. Downey, Physica C
**190**, 329 (1992). * [15] R. D. Shannon, Acta Crystallogr. Sect. A
**32**, 751 (1976).
