Fermi surface and superconducting gap in superstructure-free
Bi_(1.80)Pb_(0.38)Sr_(2.01)CuO_(6 − δ)

T. Sato, T. Kamiyama, Y. Naitoh, and T. Takahashi

Department of Physics, Tohoku University, Sendai 980-8578, Japan

I. Chong, T. Terashima, and M. Takano

Institute for Chemical Research, Kyoto University, Uji 611-0011, Japan

Received 1 November 2000; published 6 March 2001

###### Abstract

We report an ultrahigh-resolution angle-resolved photoemission
spectroscopy on superstructure-free
Bi_(1.80)Pb_(0.38)Sr_(2.01)CuO_(6 − δ) with various hole concentrations.
The Fermi surface retains a holelike character centered at (π, π) from
under- to overdoping. The superconducting gap exhibits a
d_(x² − y²)-like anisotropy with a typical gap value of 10-15 meV near
(π, 0). Comparison with Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O₈ shows that the size of the
superconducting gap and the energy of the hump structure near E_(F) are
well scaled with the maximum T_(c)(T_(c)^(max)). This suggests that the
superconducting properties are essentially characterized by T_(c)^(max)
irrespective of the number of CuO₂ layers or the BiO superstructure.

pacs: DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.63.132502 PACS number(s): 74.25.Jb,
71.18.+y, 74.72.Hs, 79.60.Bm + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL REVIEW B,
VOLUME 63, 132502

Angle-resolved photoemission spectroscopy (ARPES) has been intensively
employed on Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O₈(Bi2212) and has revealed several important
features of the cuprate high-T_(c) superconductors (HTSC’s) such as the
d_(x² − y²)-like superconducting gap [1; 2; 3] and the pseudogap above
the superconducting transition temperature (T_(c)). [4; 5; 6; 7]
Detailed analysis of ARPES spectra has elucidated the interaction of
electrons with a collective mode of wave vector (π, π). [8] On the other
hand, a recent ARPES study on Bi-system HTSC’s using higher photon
energies has raised a question regarding the so-far believed holelike
Fermi surface (FS) in HTSC’s, proposing an electronlike FS centered at
the (0, 0) point. [9] It is well known that Bi2212 has two CuO₂ layers
per unit cell and also a strong incommensurate modulation in the BiO
layer. It is still unknown how the double CuO₂ layers affect the
electronic structure and consequently the superconducting properties.
Further, the incommensurate superstructure in the BiO layer is expected
to strongly modify the electronic structure and, in fact, complicates
the interpretation of ARPES spectra. [9; 10; 11] In contrast to Bi2212,
Bi₂Sr₂CuO₆ (Bi2201) has a single CuO₂ layer per unit cell, though a
slight modulation in the BiO layer still remains. A recent structural
study has found that substitution of Bi with Pb completely erases the
superstructure in the Bi(Pb)O layer. [12] It is thus very important to
perform ARPES measurements on Pb-substituted Bi2201 to check the
universality of the key features observed so far in Bi2212 as well as to
obtain an insight into the Fermi-surface topology free from the
structural modulation.

In this paper, we report a systematic ultrahigh-resolution ARPES study
on superstructure-free Bi_(1.80)Pb_(0.38)Sr_(2.01)CuO_(6 − δ) with
various dopings [underdoped (UD) T_(c) = 18 K,19 K to overdoped (OD)
T_(c) = 13 K,0 K]. We found that the FS retains its holelike character
for all the doping levels from UD 18 K to OD 0 K. We have observed a
d_(x² − y²)-like anisotropic superconducting gap. By comparing the
present experimental results on Bi2201 with those on Bi2212, we found
that the key superconducting properties observed so far in Bi2212 are
essentially universal in the Bi-system HTSC’s irrespective of the number
of CuO₂ layers or the structural modulation in the BiO layer, and their
characteristic energies are well scaled with the maximum T_(c) of each
compound. In contrast, we have also observed that the ARPES spectral
feature is less resolved in Bi2201 than in Bi2212 even when we take into
account the scaling factor, which may suggest an intrinsic difference
between the two compounds.

Single crystals of Pb-substituted Bi2201
(Bi_(1.80)Pb_(0.38)Sr_(2.01)CuO_(6 − δ)) were grown by the
traveling-solvent floating-zone method. [12] The composition was
determined by fluorescence x-ray analysis. We have confirmed by
transmission electron microscopy that the crystals are free from any
structural modulations. [12] The doping level was controlled by
annealing under vacuum at high temperature of 500-600 degC. The T_(c) of
samples was determined by the magnetic susceptibility measurement and is
UD T_(c) = 18 K,19 K and OD T_(c) = 13 K,0 K, where 0 K means that the
sample does not show any signature of superconductivity down to 4 K.
ARPES measurements were performed using a SCIENTA SES-200 spectrometer
with a high-flux discharge lamp and a toroidal grating monochromator. We
used the He Iα resonance line (21.218 eV) to excite photoelectrons. The
energy and angular (momentum) resolutions were set at 7-11 meV and
0.25deg (0.01 A⁻¹), respectively. The Fermi level (E_(F)) of the sample
was referenced to a gold film evaporated onto the sample substrate and
its accuracy is estimated to be better than 0.4 meV.

Figure 1(a) shows the photoelectron intensity map along the (π, 0)-(π,
π) cut at 13.5 K for four samples with different dopings. Figures 1(b)
and 1(c) show a set of ARPES spectra of a UD 18-K sample measured along
(0, 0)-(π, 0) and (0, 0)-(π, π) cuts, respectively. It is clear from
Fig. 1(a) that there is a dispersive feature near E_(F) centered at (π,
0) that crosses E_(F) midway between (π, 0) and (π, π) for all the
samples. The Fermi momentum (k_(F)) determined by the
$\left[\nabla_{\rm{i}}n(k)\right]$ method [13] is shown by arrows for OD
0 K (k_(F) = 0.1 π) and UD 18 K(k_(F) = 0.15 π). [14] We find that the
Fermi momentum is gradually shifted toward the (π, π) point when the
doping level is decreased. On the other hand, we find in Figs. 1(b) and
1(c) that a band dispersing from (0, 0) to (π

0) does not cross E_(F) while there is a single E_(F) crossing of the
band in the (0, 0)-(π, π) direction. All these experimental results
unambiguously indicate that there is a holelike FS centered at (π, π),
in good agreement with previous reports,[15, 16, 17] and the volume of
FS systematically changes with doping by keeping its holelike character
for all the dopings from OD 0 K to UD 18 K. However, it is not clear at
present whether the FS topology changes with photon energy as reported
in Bi2212 (Ref. [9]) since we used only one photon energy (He I, 21.218
eV) from a discharge lamp. A careful ARPES study with synchrotron
radiation is necessary to clarify this.

Figure 2 shows ARPES spectra in the very vicinity of E_(F) measured at
two k_(F) points along (π, 0)-(π, π) and (0, 0)-(π, π) cuts for an UD 19
K sample, compared with those of a gold-film reference. We find that the
ARPES spectrum at the (π, 0)-(π, π) crossing shows a remarkable
leading-edge shift relative to that of gold while the leading edge at
the (0, 0)-(π, π) crossing almost coincides with the gold reference.
This clearly indicates that an anisotropic d_(x² − y²)-like
superconducting gap opens in Bi2201 as well as in Bi2212.[1, 2, 3]
Referring to the temperature dependence of the superconducting gap of
Bi2212,[18] it is expected that an almost full superconducting gap opens
at 13.5 K in the present Bi2201 sample (T_(c) = 19 K) because an almost
full gap opens at 60 K in the Bi2212 sample with T_(c) = 90 K.[18] In
order to estimate the size of the superconducting gap, we have simulated
the spectrum with the BCS spectral function by taking into account the
finite-energy resolution and the finite temperature

Figure 1: (Color) (a) ARPES intensity map of
Bi_(1.80)Pb_(0.38)Sr_(2.01)CuO_(6 − δ) for four samples with different
dopings (overdoped T_(c) = 0 K, 13 K to underdoped T_(c) = 19 K, 18 K).
Bright area corresponds to the high ARPES intensity. Vertical axis
corresponds to the momentum along the (π, 0)-(π, π) cut while the
abscissa shows the binding energy relative to E_(F). The Fermi momentum
(k_(F)) determined by the |∇_(k)n(k)| method (Ref. [13]) is shown by
arrows for OD 0 K (k_(F) = 0.1π) and UD 18 K (k_(F) = 0.15 π). The inset
shows the Brillouin zone with a schematic Fermi surface obtained from
the present measurement (red line) and three cuts where ARPES
measurements were done. (b) ARPES spectra of
Bi_(1.80)Pb_(0.38)Sr_(2.01)CuO_(6 − δ) (underdoped T_(c) = 18 K)
measured along the (0, 0)-(π, 0) cut at 25 K. Rough peak position is
indicated by red circles. (c) ARPES spectra of
Bi_(1.80)Pb_(0.38)Sr_(2.01)CuO_(6 − δ) (underdoped T_(c) = 18 K)
measured along the (0, 0)-(π, π) cut at 13.5 K.

Figure 2: (Color) ARPES spectra in the very vicinity of E_(F) measured
at the Fermi momentum at 13.5 K along the (π, 0)-(π, π) and (0, 0)-(π,
π) cuts for Bi_(1.80)Pb_(0.38)Sr_(2.01)CuO_(6 − δ) (underdoped T_(c) =
19 K) compared with those of a gold-film reference. A green line denotes
the numerical simulation to estimate the superconducting gap. For
details, see text.

effect (Fermi-Dirac function at 13.5 K). The result is shown with the
green line in Fig. 2. We find that the leading edge of the ARPES
spectrum is well fitted by the simulation, while the higher-binding
energy region is not well reproduced probably because the incoherent
part and the background in the ARPES spectrum are not included in the
simulation. The estimated gap size of the UD 19 K sample is 14 ± 1.5
meV. This value is relatively small compared with a typical value (40-45
meV) reported for Bi2212 with a similar hole concentration,[19, 20, 21]
reflecting the difference in the T_(c) , namely, the strength of the
pairing interaction. It is remarked here that the ratio of the gap size
(40-45 meV/14 meV = 2.9-3.2) is close to the ratio of the maximum
$T_{c}(T_{c}^{\rm max})$ for each compound [90 K(Bi2212)/23 K(Bi2201)]∼
3.9]. This suggests the existence of a certain scaling in the
characteristic energy of the superconducting property.

Figure 3 shows the doping dependence of the ARPES spectrum at (π, 0) for
Bi2201 and Bi2212.[8] Detailed analysis of the ARPES spectra of Bi2212
in this momentum region has revealed the interaction of electrons with a
collective mode.[8] For Bi2212 we clearly find a ’hump-dip-peak’
structure produced through this interaction in all the spectra from UD
55 K to OD 72 K. We find a small humplike structure around 50 meV in the
spectra of UD 18 K and UD 19 K in Bi2201 as denoted by bars. This
humplike structure may correspond to that around 200 meV in Bi2212.
Further, a quasiparticlelike peak appears at about 20 meV in the
spectrum of UD 19 K as shown by a broken bar. It is thus inferred that
the overall ARPES spectral feature near E_(F) and its doping dependence
are similar between Bi2212 and Bi2201, although the energy scale is
distinctly different between the two. When we compare the energy scale
between Bi2212 and Bi2201 from the energy position of the humplike
structure in each ARPES spectrum (Bi2201 UD 19 K and Bi2212 UD 75 K), we
obtain the ratio of 3.8 (=190/50). Surprisingly, this value is almost
the same as that of the $T_{c}^{\rm max}$ (∼3.9), suggesting existence
of a certain energy scaling in the ARPES spectrum near E_(F) between
Bi2201 and Bi2212. In spite of the similarity in overall structure in
the ARPES spectrum near E_(F) , we find in Fig. 3 that the spectral
feature is less resolved in Bi2201 than in Bi2212. This broad nature in
the ARPES spectrum in Bi2201 is not understood even when we take into
account the energy scaling ratio (∼3.9) and/or the measurement
temperature relative to the T_(c) . Referring to a previous ARPES study
on Bi2212,[22] it is expected that the present energy resolution (7 meV)
is sufficient to resolve each structure near E_(F) in Bi2201 as well as
in Bi2212. It is also remarked here that a similar broad nature in the
ARPES spectrum near E_(F) has been observed in other single-CuO₂ layer
compounds such as Bi₂Sr_(2 − x)La_(x)CuO_(6 + δ).[17]
La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄,[23] and HgBa₂CuO_(4 + δ).[24] Therefore, the
absence of a clear hump-dip-peak structure may be an intrinsic and
common feature for single-layer compounds, although the origin is not
clear at present, and this awaits further investigation.

Next we compare the various energy scales in Bi2201 and Bi2212. Figure 4
summarizes the comparison of characteristic energies of the
superconducting properties (T_(c) , size of the superconducting gap, and
energy of the hump in the ARPES spectrum) between Bi2201 and Bi2212. In
Fig. 4 we also include the temperature at which the in-plane resistivity
of the optimally doped sample shows a deviation from the _T_-linear
behavior.[12, 25] Since the in-plane resistivity is believed to be
closely related to the pseudogap,[25] this temperature serves as a
measure of temperature (T*) at which a pseudogap opens at E_(F) ,
although the T* was not determined in this study due to a fast
degradation of the sample surface at high temperature. A straight line
in Fig. 4 shows the ratio of $T_{c}^{\rm max}$ between Bi2212 (90 K) and
Bi2201 (23 K). As seen

Figure 4: Comparison of representative characteristic energies of
superconducting properties [size of the superconducting gap, energy
position of the hump structure in ARPES spectrum, and T* at which the
in-plane resistivity of the optimally doped sample shows a deviation
from the _T_-linear behavior (Refs. [12, 25]) between Bi2201 and Bi2212.
A straight line shows the ratio of $T_{c}^{\rm max}$ of each compound
[90 K (Bi2212)/23 K (Bi2201)=3.9]. Note that all the values are on/near
this line, suggesting existence of an energy scaling between Bi2212 and
Bi2201.

Figure 3: Comparison of doping dependence of the ARPES spectrum at the
(π, 0) point between Bi2201 and Bi2212 (Ref. [8]). Rough energy position
of the hump structure is marked by bars. Broken bar in the ARPES
spectrum of Bi2201 UD 19 K shows a possible position of the
quasiparticle peak.

in Fig. 4, the size of the superconducting gap, the energy position of
the hump structure in the ARPES spectrum, and _T_* are well scaled with
$T_{c}^{\rm max}$ . This suggests that the superconducting and pseudogap
properties are essentially the same in both Bi2212 and Bi2201
irrespective of the number of CuO₂ layers or the structural modulation
in the BiO layer, and their characteristic energies are well scaled with
the maximum T_(c) , namely, the strength of the pairing interaction.
Finally we briefly comment on the collective mode in Bi2201. A recent
theoretical work by Abanov and Chubukov[26] has shown that the energy
separation between the peak and the dip at (π, 0) in the ARPES spectrum
corresponds to the energy of the collective mode of wave vector (π, π),
which couples with electrons and leads to the superconductivity. Indeed,
a recent precise ARPES study on Bi2212 has revealed the collective mode
with the energy of ∼40 meV,[8] which shows a good agreement with the
energy of the magnetic-resonance peak observed by neutron scattering on
Bi2212.[27] In contrast to Bi2212, the ARPES spectrum of Bi2201 does not
show a clear dip-peak structure (Fig. 4). However, considering the
energy scaling in the ARPES spectrum at (π, 0) (Fig. 4), the peak-to-dip
separation in Bi2201 is expected to have a value smaller than that of
Bi2212 by a factor of the ratio (3.9). This estimates a value of 10 meV
for the mode energy in optimally doped Bi2201. A neutron-scattering
experiment on Bi2201 is thus greatly desired to check the mode energy
and consequently the energy scaling.

In conclusion, from the present ultrahigh-resolution ARPES study on
superstructure-free Pb-substituted Bi2201 with various dopings, we found
that (i) Bi2201 has a holelike Fermi surface centered at (π, π) in the
entire doping region from UD 18 K to OD 0 K, (ii) the superconducting
gap symmetry is d_(x² − y²)-like with a typical maximum gap value of
10−15 meV, and (iii) the ARPES spectral feature near E_(F)
(hump-dip-peak structure) and its doping dependence of Bi2201 are
similar to that of Bi2212 while the energy scale is remarkably different
and the spectral feature is less resolved in Bi2201. By comparing the
present results on Bi2201 with those on Bi2212, we found that the
characteristic energies of the superconducting properties are well
scaled with the maximum T_(c) ($T_{c}^{\rm max}$) of each compound. This
suggests that the superconducting properties are characterized by
$T_{c}^{\rm max}$ irrespective of the number of CuO₂ layers or the
structural modulation in the crystal.

This work was supported by grants from the CREST (Core Research for
Evolutional Science and Technology Corporation) of JST, the Japan
Society for Promotion of Science (JSPS), and the Ministry of Education,
Science and Culture of Japan. T.S. thanks the JSPS for partial support.

## References

* [1] Z.-X. Shen _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **70**, 1553 (1993). * [2]
T. Yokoya _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **51**, 3945 (1995). * [3] H. Ding _et
al._, Phys. Rev. B **54**, R9678 (1996). * [4] D. S. Marshall _et al._,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **76**, 4841 (1996). * [5] A. G. Loeser _et al._,
Science **273**, 325 (1996). * [6] H. Ding _et al._, Nature (London)
**382**, 51 (1996). * [7] M. R. Norman _et al._, Nature (London)
**392**, 157 (1998). * [8] J. C. Campuzano _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**83**, 3709 (1999). * [9] Y.-D. Chuang _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**83**, 3717 (1999). * [10] H. Ding _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **76**,
1533 (1996). * [11] N. L. Saini _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **79**, 3467
(1997). * [12] I. Chong _et al._, Physica C **290**, 57 (1997). * [13]
Th. Straub _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **55**, 13 473 (1997). * [14] We have
checked that the determined k_(F)’s in the superconducting state are the
same as the k points at which the leading edge shows a smallest gap,
known as a minimum gap locus (Ref. 7). * [15] T. Takeuchi _et al._,
Physica C **282−287**, 999 (1997). * [16] D. M. King _et al._, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **73**, 3298 (1994). * [17] J. M. Harris _et al._, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **79**, 143 (1997). * [18] A. V. Fedorov _et al._, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **82**, 2179 (1999). * [19] We assumed a similar T_(c)-doping
curve for Bi2212 and Bi2201 to estimate the hole concentration from the
T_(c)’s (Ref. 20). * [20] M. R. Presland _et al._, Physica C **176**, 95
(1991). * [21] J. Mesot _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **83**, 840 (1999). *
[22] D. S. Dessau _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **66**, 2160 (1991). * [23]
A. Ino _et al._, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **68**, 1496 (1999). * [24] H.
Uchiyama _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **62**, 615 (2000). * [25] T. Watanabe
_et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **79**, 2113 (1997). * [26] Ar. Abanov and A.
V. Chubukov, Phys. Rev. Lett. **83**, 1652 (1999). * [27] H. F. Fong _et
al._, Nature (London) **398**, 588 (1999).
