# Structural and superconducting properties of MgB_(2 − x)Be_(x)

J. S. Ahn,¹ Young-Jin Kim,² M.-S. Kim,³ S.-I. Lee,³ and E. J.
Choi^(1, 2)

¹Center for Strongly Correlated Materials Research, Seoul National
University, Seoul 151-742, Republic of Korea

²Department of Physics, University of Seoul, Seoul 130-743, Republic of
Korea

³Center for Superconductivity and Department of Physics, Pohang
University of Science and Technology, Pohang 790-784, Republic of Korea

###### Abstract

We prepared MgB_(2 − x)Be_(x) (x = 0, 0.2, 0.3, 0.4, and 0.6) samples
where B is substituted with Be. MgB₂ structure is maintained up to
x = 0.6. In-plane and interplane lattice constants were found to
decrease and increase, respectively. The superconducting transition
temperature T_(c) decreases with x. We found that the T_(c) decrease is
correlated with in-plane contraction but is insensitive to carrier
doping, which is consistent with other substitution studies such as
Mg_(1 − x)Al_(x)B₂ and MgB_(2 − x)Ca . Implication of this work is
discussed in terms of the two-dimensional nature of the σ band.

pacs: 74.62.-c, 74.70.Ad, 61.10.−i + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL
REVIEW B, VOLUME 65, 172503

## I Introduction

The recent discovery of superconductivity in MgB₂ at T_(c) = 39 K has
drawn enormous attention to its structural and electrical properties.[1]
The borons form the graphitic planes and magnesiums supply charges in
the planes. The resulting carriers are holes in the σ-band.[2] Most
theoretical works suggest that coupling of the σ hole with a B-plane
phonon is the key ingredient of the superconductivity in this
compound.[3, 4, 5] This phonon-mediated BCS mechanism is consistent with
the boron isotope effect.[6]

There have been many attempts to change T_(c) through chemical
substitution in Mg or B sites. For example, Al substitution on a Mg
site[7] and C substitution on the boron plane are reported.[8] Such
chemical substitutions change the physical quantities of the system such
as hole density, lattice constants, etc. However, there is no detailed
understanding of the effect of substitution on the observed T_(c) change
even within the BCS frame.

In this paper, we prepared a series of MgB_(2 − x)Be_(x), where B is
substituted with Be in the plane.[9] With this substitution, the
in-plane B-B distance decreases while the interplane distance increases.
Our thermopower measurement showed that the σ hole increases with Be, as
reported in an independent paper.[10] We compare our result with other
substituted compounds and find that the T_(c) change is insensitive to
the carrier doping. Instead, we show that the in-plane B-B distance is
closely correlated with the T_(c) change in the low-doping region. This
result is consistent with the two-dimensional (2D) nature of the σ
band.[4]

## II Experiment

Polycrystalline samples were synthesized with the powder metallurgical
technique under high pressure. Starting materials were fine powders of
Mg (99.8

An x-ray diffraction (XRD) θ-2 θ scan measurement was performed using a
Rigaku RINT d-max. Figure 1(a) shows the results for x = 0, 0.2, 0.4,
0.6, and 1.0. Most of the reflections correspond to AlB₂₊-type patterns.
Also, minor impurity phases such as MgO and BeO are found as indicated
by ▽ and *, respectively. Note that the MgB₂ structure is maintained up
to x = 0.6. At higher compositions (x = 1.4 and 2.0, not shown here), we
find that Be₁₃Mg becomes the main phase. In Fig. 1(b), the shifts of the
(002) and (110) reflections are shown in expanded scales. As x
increases, the (002)

Figure 1: (a) x-ray θ-2 θ scan results of MgB_(2 − x)Be_(x) (x = 0, 0.2,
0.3, 0.4, 0.6, and 1.0). Impurity peaks are indicated with symbols:
MgO(▽) and BeO(*). (b) Shift of (002) and (110) reflections.

reflection shifts to a lower angle while the (110) reflection moves to
the opposite direction. This indicates that the in-plane lattice
constant a decreases and the interplane distance c increases with x.[11]
To obtain the lattice parameters, we performed refinement analysis using
the reitan-2000 program [12] and used MgO and BeO as internal standards.

In order to study superconducting property, dc magnetization was
measured using a dc superconducting quantum interference device (SQUID)
magnetometer (Quantum Design). Figure 2 shows the magnetization M(T) of
MgB_(2 − x)Be_(x). In this measurement, samples were first zero-field
cooled (ZFC) and data were measured with increasing temperature under H
= 10 Oe. Note that the superconducting transition temperature T_(c)
decreases with x. In the figure, the magnetization is normalized with
the saturated value at T =5 K. The transition width ΔT_(c) was
determined from 10

## III III. Result and Discussion

In Fig. 3, we summarize the XRD and T_(c) results. The upper panel shows
the lattice constants a and c. T_(c) and ΔT_(c) are shown in the lower
panel. With Be doping, a decreases while c increases. Note that the
change in c (∼3.3

Figure 4: T_(c) change with respect to lattice compression for various
chemically substituted compounds. (a) T_(c) vs interplane lattice
contraction −Δc/c₀. (b) T_(c) vs in-plane lattice contraction −Δa/a₀.
(c) shows an expanded view of the low-doping region of (b). Experimental
data are shown with symbols: MgB_(2 − x)Be_(x) (•), MgI_(1 − x)Al_(x)B₂
(▫), and MgB_(2 − x)C_(x) (◇). Results of high-pressure measurement for
pristine MgB₂ are shown for comparison (dashed lines), based on the
experimental results below 1 GPa (Ref. 13). Solid and dash-dotted lines
are guides for the eye.

Figure 2: Magnetization M(T) of MgB_(2 − x)Be_(x). ZFC results are
shown. External magnetic field H = 10 Oe is used. Data are normalized
with 5 K value.

malized with T_(c). As shown with open squares, the ratio ΔT_(c)/T_(c)
increases with x.

Now let us consider the T_(c) change. To see a possible correlation of
T_(c) with lattice parameters, we first plot T_(c) vs c in Fig. 4(a).
Our results for MgB_(2 − x)Be_(x) are shown as solid circles. For
comparison, the results for Mg_(1 − x)Al_(x)B₂ (open squares) (Ref. 7)
and MgB_(2 − x)C_(x) (open circles) (Ref. 8) are also shown. In
MgB_(2 − x)Be_(x), c expands with the substitution while it contracts in
Mg_(1 − x)Al_(x)B₂. For MgB_(2 − x)C_(x), c remains almost unchanged.
For all these three different cases, T_(c) decreases and there is no
correlation between T_(c) and c. This indicates that the inter layer
distance is not directly related to T_(c).

Next, we examine the T_(c) vs a relation in Fig. 4(b). For all samples,
a shrinks with the substitutions. Along with the a decrease, T_(c)
decreases linearly. With further contraction, sudden drops are found for
MgB_(2 − x)Be_(x) and Mg_(1 − x)Al_(x)B₂. This indicates some abrupt
changes in the samples, for example structural instability like buckling
or ordering in the plane. It is useful to compare the linear T_(c)
decrease with the result of high-pressure experiments on pristine MgB₂
(dashed line): As external pressure is applied, the lattice is
compressed and T_(c) is found to decrease.[13] [The dashed line in Fig.
4(a) represents the pressure result for c compression.] Note that the
T_(c) decrease in substituted compounds is similar to the pressure line
when the contraction (− Δa/a₀) is small.

In Fig. 4(c), we examine the low-contraction region more closely. Note
that the data of the two compounds (Be, and Al substituted) fall nearly
on the same line (see the solid guide line). It is interesting that the
T_(c) change occurs in the same direction (decrease) for both electron
[Al (Ref. 16)] and hole [Be (Ref. 10)] doping. In fact, such a behavior
is predicted theoretically by An and Pickett[4]: their band calculation
for MgB₂ shows that the in-plane σ band is highly 2D like and the DOS is
nearly constant with energy. In this case, the Fermi level shift due to
carrier doping will not affect T_(c). Our observation is consistent with
this prediction.

Our results suggest that the a contraction plays the key role in the
observed T_(c) decrease. According to the BCS analysis of MgB₂,[17] the
shrinkage in a leads to a decrease in the density of states (DOS), an
increase in the phonon frequency, and a decrease in the electron-phonon
coupling. As a result, T_(c) decreases.[14; 15; 18] Note that for Al-
and Be-substituted samples, T_(c) decreases somewhat faster than the
pressure line, suggesting that some additional effects such as, for
example, structural randomness arise by the substitution. It is
interesting that in MgB_(2 − x)C_(x), the slope is close to the pressure
line, suggesting that the additional effects are minimal.[19] Our
observation points to a possible T_(c) increase if a could be
expanded.[20] In fact, Medvedeva _et al._ predicted that higher T_(c)
may be obtained in lattice-expanded cases such as the hypothetical
CaB₂.[21]

It is interesting to compare our results with the theoretical prediction
on MgB_(2 − x)Be_(x) by Mehl _et al.[11]_ According to their
calculation, the lattice constant a increases with x, opposite to our
observation. At this point, it is not clear where the discrepancy arises
from. As one possibility, we speculate that Be substituted in the B
plane may actually exist in a partially ionic state rather than in a
perfect covalent state. In this case, the Be radius is smaller than its
covalent radius, which can result in the in-plane contraction.[22]

## IV Conclusion

In this work, we studied the structural and superconducting properties
of MgB_(2 − x)Be_(x) (x = 0, 0.2, 0.3, 0.4, and 0.6). In-plane and
interplane lattice constants were found to decrease and increase
respectively with Be substitution. While T_(c) decreases with x
monotonically, ΔT_(c) shows a maximum at x = 0.3. From our results and
other substitution studies (Al and C substitution), we found that the
T_(c) change is correlated with the in-plane contraction and is
independent of the carrier doping. This is consistent with the 2D nature
of the σ band.

###### Acknowledgements.

This work was supported by Univ. of Seoul research fund (year 2000), by
KRF-99-041-D00185 and by the KOSEF through the CSCMR. Work at POSTECH
was supported by the Creative Research Initiatives of the Korean
Ministry of Science and Technology.

## References

* (1) J. Nagamatsu, N. Nakagawa, T. Muranaka, Y. Zenitani, and J.
Akimitsu, Nature (London) **410**, 63 (2001). * (2) W.N. Kang, C.U.
Jung, K.H.P. Kim, M.-S. Park, S.Y. Lee, H.-J. Kim, E.-M. Choi, K.H. Kim,
M.-S. Kim, and S.-I. Lee, Appl. Phys. Lett. **79**, 982 (2001). * (3) J.
Kortus, I.I. Mazin, K.D. Belashchenko, V.P. Antropov, and L.L. Boyer,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **86**, 4656 (2001). * (4) J.M. An and W.E. Pickett,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **86**, 4366 (2001). * (5) A.Y. Liu, I.I. Mazin, and J.
Kortus, Phys. Rev. Lett. **87**, 087005 (2001). * (6) S.L. Bud’ko, G.
Lapertot, C. Petrovic, C.E. Cunningham, N. Anderson, and P.C. Canfield,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **86**, 1877 (2001). * (7) J.S. Slusky, N. Rogado, K.A.
Regan, M.A. Hayward, P. Khalifah, T. He, K. Inumaru, S. Loureiro, M.K.
Haas, H.W. Zandbergen, and R.J. Cava, Nature (London) **410**, 343
(2001); J.Q. Li, L. Li, F.M. Liu, C. Dong, J.Y. Xiang, and Z.X. Zhao,
Phys. Rev. B **65**, 132505 (2002). * (8) J.S. Ahn and E.J. Choi,
cond-mat/0103169 (unpublished); T. Takenobu, T. Ito, D.H. Chi, K.
Prassides, and Y. Iwasa, Phys. Rev. B **64**, 134513 (2001). * (9)
Synthesis of MgBe_(2 − x)B_(δ) with T_(c) ∼ 10 K was reported earlier:
J. Akimitsu (unpublished). However, the composition δ and the lattice
structure were not specified. * (10) J. S. Ahn, E. J. Choi, E. S. Choi,
W. Kang, and D. J. Singh (unpublished). * (11) M.J. Mehl, D.A.
Papaconstantopoulos, and D.J. Singh, Phys. Rev. B **64**, 140509
(2001). * (12) F. Izumi, in _The Rietveld Method_, edited by R. A. Young
(Oxford University Press, Oxford, 1993), Chap. 13; F. Izumi and T.
Ikeda, Mater. Sci. Forum **321-324**, 189 (2000). * [13] Lorenz _et al._
showed that T_(c) decreases with pressure at a slope ∂T_(c)/∂P =  − 1.6
K/GPa up to 1 GPa (Ref. [14]). Meanwhile, x-ray diffraction results by
Goncharov _et al._ showed that lattice constant changes with pressure at
a rate of ∂a/∂P =  − 4.3 nm/GPa and ∂c/∂P =  − 8.6 nm/GPa up to 12 GPa
(Ref. [15]) * [14] B. Lorenz, R.L. Meng, and C.W. Chu, Phys. Rev. B
**64**, 012507 (2001). * [15] A.F. Goncharov, V.V. Struzhkin, E.
Gregoryanz, Jingzhu Hu, R.J. Hemley, H.-K. Mao, G. Lapertot, S.L.
Bud’ko, and P.C. Canfield, Phys. Rev. B **64**, 100509 (2001). * [16] B.
Lorenz, R.L. Meng, Y.Y. Xue, and C.W. Chu, Phys. Rev. B **64**, 052513
(2001). * [17] I. Loa and K. Syassen, Solid State Commun. **118**, 279
(2001). * [18] T. Vogt, G. Schneider, J.A. Hriljac, G. Yang, and J.S.
Abell, Phys. Rev. B **63**, 220505 (2001). * [19] Note that the pressure
line lies above the other substituted data. T_(c) of the pressure line
is taken from the resistivity data while the others are taken from the
magnetic measurement. Usually the resistivity gives a little bit higher
T_(c) in substituted samples of MgB₂. * [20] For Mg_(1 − x)Zn_(x)B₂,
lattice expansion is reported. However, there is a controversy on the
T_(c) change: S.M. Kazakov, M. Angst, and J. Karpinski, cond-mat/0103350
(unpublished); Y. Moritomo and Sh. Xu, cond-mat/0104568 (unpublished). *
[21] N.I. Medvedeva, A.L. Ivanovskii, J.E. Medvedeva, and A. J. Freeman,
Phys. Rev. B **64**, 020502 (2001). * [22] The ionic radius of Be²⁺ is
0.35 A, which is smaller than the covalent radius of B (0.88 A): W. B.
Pearson, _Crystal Chemistry and Physics of Metals and Alloys_ (Wiley,
New York, 1972).
