Anisotropy of YBa₂Cu_(3 − x)Fe_(x)O_(7 − δ) single crystals studied by
torque magnetometry

T. R. Chien and W. R. Datars

Department of Physics and Astronomy, McMaster University, Hamilton,
Ontario, Canada L8S 4M1

M. D. Lan, J. Z. Liu, and R. N. Shelton

Department of Physics, University of California at Davis, Davis,
California 95616

30 August 1993

###### Abstract

The coherence-length anisotropy ratio γ of YBa₂Cu_(3 − x)Fe_(x)O_(7 − δ)
superconducting single crystals (x ≤ 0.22) has been measured by the
equilibrium-torque magnetometry method. The experiments were performed
at temperatures several K below the onset T_(c) of superconductivity in
magnetic fields of 1−2 T. γ = 9.3 ± 0.3 for two pure YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ)
single crystals, which is 20

pacs: 0163-1829/44/92(1)/1342(4)/506.00

## I Introduction

One of the key features of the high-T_(c) cuprate superconductors is
their high anisotropy compared with conventional three-dimensional (3D)
BCS superconductors. This, along with other factors, leads to the
conclusion that the CuO₂ planes play an essential role in the
superconductivity and there are weak interlayer couplings between them.
The degree of anisotropy is usually expressed by the dimensionless
parameter γ, which is defined as the ratio of the superconducting
coherence lengths parallel and perpendicular to the basal plane (_ab_
plane). In the 3D Ginzburg-Landau model, γ = (m_(c)/m_(a))^(1/2), where
m_(c) and m_(a) are the effective masses along the c axis and the _ab_
plane, respectively.

Ways of measuring γ include resistive, magnetic, and torque methods.
Among all these possibilities, the equilibrium torque method offers the
most unambiguous way to measure γ directly. An anisotropic
superconductor experiences a torque τ = M × H in a magnetic field H. The
angular dependence of τ(θ) gives a direct measure of γ of the
superconductor where θ is the angle between the c axis and the applied
H. This line of thinking has been developed theoretically by Kogan and
Clem [1, 2] and more recently by Hao and Clem [3] and Blatter,
Geshkenbein, and Larkin [4].

For pure YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) crystals, recent equilibrium torque
measurements gave a γ value close to 7.5 [5, 6]. As a comparison,
previous anisotropy measurements of H_(C2) by dc magnetization method
indicated γ ≈ 5 (Ref. 7) and resistivity measurements gave
ρ_(c)/ρ_(a) ≈ 40 (Ref. 8) for pure YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ).

In regard to the general physical properties of the
YBa₂Cu_(3 − x)Fe_(x)O_(7 − δ) system, earlier work provided a great deal
of information. The solubility limit of x in
YBa₂Cu_(3 − x)Fe_(x)O_(7 − δ) was determined to be approximately 0.5 [9,
10]. The magnetic Fe⁺³ ions mainly go into the Cu(1) chain sites at low
concentrations and substitution for Cu(2) plane sites starts to prevail
at higher Fe concentrations. [10, 11, 12] The structure of the
YBa₂Cu_(3 − x)Fe_(x)O_(7 − δ) is orthorhombic with x <  ∼ 0.08 and is
tetragonal with x > 0.08[9, 10]. Lan _et al._[13] measured the
resistivities of the YBa₂Cu_(3 − x)Fe_(x)O_(7 − δ) single crystals and
found a metallic behavior for x < 0.25. The superconducting T_(c)
decreases steadily with Fe doping and no abrupt change was observed
across the orthorhombic-tetragonal transition [11]. The Fe³⁺ ions form
localized magnetic moments with $\mu_{\rm eff}$=3.4μ_(B) per ion, from
the Curie-Weiss law of the normal state susceptibility [9] and the
Mossbauer data [10]. The c-axis lattice constant increases up to ∼11.68
A at low doping level and then decreases after the
orthorhombic-tetragonal transition [9].

In this paper, we present anisotropy measurements of high-quality
YBa₂Cu_(3 − x)Fe_(x)O_(7 − δ) single crystals by the equilibrium torque
magnetometry method. Six different doped samples with x ranging from 0
to 0.22 were studied and we found that the γ value increases with
increasing Fe doping. More details will be discussed in the following
sections.

## II Experimental details

A rotating magnetic torque magnetometer similar to that of Iye _et
al._’s [14] was constructed. The magnetometer consists of two parts: a
rotatable sample probe inside a fixed outer vacuum jacket. The
magnetometer is in a dewar between the pole faces of a 2 T
electromagnet. The sample sits on a thin Be-Cu plate which serves as a
spring and the capacitance between this spring and a fixed electrode
separated by a distance d is measured. The total capacitance is in the
range of 0.25−0.35 pF. The torque τ causes a deviation Δd of the Be-Cu
spring. For small Δd, τ is proportional to Δd. Since the capacitance
change ΔC is proportional to Δd/d(d + Δd), for a small deviation Δd the
torque τ is proportional to ΔC with small corrections. A Be-Cu spring
with a thickness of approximately 0.04 mm was selected to make it
sensitive to detect the small torque signals with a maximum capacitance
change of less than 1

The sample probe was rotated by a computer-controlled stepping motor
with a maximum angular resolution of 0.009^(∘). The rotation was done at
1 or 0.1 degree intervals and the stepping rate was between 0.5 and 0.8
steps per second. A transverse Hall sensor installed on the probe was
used to monitor the angular position of the probe. Liquid nitrogen was
used to cool the jacket of the probe and a mechanical pump was used to
lower the vapor pressure of the liquid nitrogen so that temperatures
between 55 and 77 K could be used. On the copper sample chamber, a
heater connected to a temperature controller was used to stabilize the
temperature to within +-30 mK.

High-quality YBa2Cu3-Fe2O7-8 single crystals were grown by a modified
self-flux technique at the University of California at Davis.[15, 16]
The samples were oxygen annealed at 420degC for one week in a flowing
oxygen environment to obtain an optimum oxygen content. The samples were
smooth and shiny with typical dimensions of approximately 40 μm x 0.7mm
x 0.7mm. The masses were between 0.1 and 0.3 mg. The orthorhombic
samples were microtwinned: The determination of x was made by
energy-dispersive x-ray analysis (EDX)[16] and by the comparison of the
onset T_(c) (10

The torque experiments were performed at 2-5 K below the onset T_(c) in
a field of 1.5 or 2 T. The sample probe was rotated through 190^(∘) in
both directions while the computer recorded the capacitance. The
temperature and field ranges were selected so that the flux dynamics
were in the reversible regime in our experimental time scale ( 1 s).

## 3 Results

Based on the 3D anisotropic London model, in the field range
H_(C2) > H > H_(C1), the angular dependence of the equilibrium torque
per unit volume is given by[2]

$$\tau(\theta) = \frac{\phi_{0}H}{64\pi^{2}\lambda^{2}}\frac{\gamma^{2} - 1}{\gamma^{1/3}}\frac{\sin(2\theta)}{\epsilon(\theta)}\ln\left[\frac{\gamma\eta H_{C2}}{H\epsilon(\theta)}\right]\,,$$

where ϵ(θ) = (sin²θ + γ²cos²θ)^(1/2), θ is the angle between the applied
field H and the c axis, γ = ξ_(a)/ξ_(c), λ is the average penetration
depth, H_(C2♯) is the upper critical field along the c axis, and η is a
constant of the order of unity which is dependent on the flux lattice
structure. Demagnetization effects are negligible for H > H_(C1). Due to
an uncertainty in determining the exact value of θ during experiments, a
small angular offset Δθ was left as a fitting parameter. Thus, four
fitting parameters were used: γ, ηH_(C2♯), the amplitude and Δθ.
Equation (1) has been verified by experiments with YBa2Cu3O7-8 (Refs. 5,
6, and 17) and Bi2Sr2CaCu2O8.[18]

Figure 1 shows the τ(θ) curves for three different samples. In order to
show each data without overlapping, arbitrary units of torque were
chosen for these three data sets. The solid lines are the least χ² fit
of Eq. (1) to the data. A careful look at the data shows that in the
angular range $0 < \theta < \theta_{\rm max}$ $\theta_{\rm max}$ is the
angle at which τ(θ) is maximum, the curvature of τ(θ) is negative, i.e.,
d²τ/dθ² < 0. This feature is different from that observed by Janossy,
Hergt, and Fruchter[5] and Beck _et al._[6] where a positive curvature
was observed. A small ηH_(C2♯)/H value for our temperature and field
ranges makes the curvature of Eq. (1) negative.

A problem encountered during the experiments was that the Be-Cu spring
was slightly magnetic and gave a sinusoidal background which could be as
large as 10

Figure 1: Typical τ(θ) curves for YBa2Cu3-Fe2O7-8 single crystals with x
= 0, 0.04, and 0.22 at the temperatures and fields specified on the
graph. The solid curves are the least χ² fit of Eq. (1) to the data
points.

or 80^(∘) < θ < 100^(∘) with 100 − 200 points. Both fittings gave
consistent γ values to within 3 − 10 % for data at an identical
temperature and field.

The magnitude of the fitting parameter Δθ was always less than 0.05^(∘)
for the same background subtraction and was a negligible factor for
γ < 30. The angular correction from the deviation of the spring caused
approximately a 1% increase of the γ value.

The fitting parameter ηH_(C2₁) in the logarithmic term usually was
within a factor of 2 of the predicted value of ηH_(C2₁)(T) for η = 1 and
dH_(C2₁)/dT = −1.5T/K at x = 0. The slope dH_(C2₁)/dT decreased as x
increased. We did not try to determine this parameter because the
uncertainty of the background dominated the analysis for this parameter.

The normalized τ(θ) curves for three different samples are plotted in
Fig. 2 to show τ(θ) more clearly in the angular range
80^(∘) < θ < 90^(∘). Data were taken every 0.1^(∘) or 0.2^(∘) angle. The
solid curves are the least χ² fit for 80^(∘) < θ < 100^(∘) with
γ = 9.56, 18.9, and 29.1 for these particular three data sets.

For pure YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ), we measured γ = 9.3 ± 0.3 for two samples
with T_(c) > 92.5 K. The value is 20% larger than the ones reported
earlier by Beck _et al._[6] (γ = 7.7 ± 0.2) and by Janossy, Hergt, and
Frauchter[5] (γ = 7.5 ± 0.1). This discrepancy is beyond any possible
systematic error in our experiments and the higher value is attributed
to a higher sample quality.

Figure 3 shows a plot of γ versus x for our
YBa₂Cu_(3 − x)Fe_(x)O_(7 − δ) single crystals. γ steadily increases to
29 ± 2 for x = 0.22. The error bars represent the overall uncertainty
from different data and different fitting procedures. The dotted curve
is a guide to the eye.

No temperature dependence of γ was observed in our narrow temperature
range. This is expected theoretically in the 3D Ginzburg-Landau model.

The possibility of a torque from the magnetic Fe⁺³ ions was examined
carefully. This torque would be indicated if τ(θ) is inconsistent with
Eq. (1) or there is a temperature insensitive ferromagnetic hysteresis
in τ(θ). This evidence was not observed because for all the
YBa₂Cu_(3 − x)Fe_(x)O_(7 − δ) samples no torque was observed above T_(c)
and, a few Kelvin below T_(c) in the reversible regime, the τ(θ) data
were consistent with Eq. (1). These observations indicated that the Fe⁺³
magnetic moments contributed no torque within our experimental
sensitivity. Previous studies of the YBa₂Cu_(3 − x)Fe_(x)O_(7 − δ)
system also indicated no magnetic ordering of the Fe⁺³ ions from the
localized magnetic moments.[9, 10]

## 4 Discussion

Superconducting anisotropy was an insignificant detail in the 3D BCS
superconductors. After the discovery of the high-T_(c) cuprate
superconductors, it is well known that the CuO₂ planes play an essential
role in the novel superconductivity and there are weak interlayer
couplings between them. Study of the anisotropy of the new
quasi-two-dimensional superconductors becomes an important issue.

At the present time, no theory can calculate the anisotropy of the
high-T_(c) materials, let alone the effect of doping on the anisotropy.
A direct measurement of the anisotropy of the doped high-T_(c)
superconductors such as YBa₂Cu_(3 − x)Fe_(x)O_(7 − δ) may provide
important information on the superconducting mechanisms and the physical
properties of such a system.

For YBa₂Cu_(3 − x)Fe_(x)O_(7 − δ) crystals, the c-axis lattice constant
increases with Fe doping before the orthorhombic to tetragonal
transition (x <  ∼ 0.08), which could possibly _explain_ the increase of
γ value since the interlayer couplings would be lowered. However, this
argument fails at higher doping levels since γ still increases as the
c-axis lattice constant decreases. Another possible ex

Figure 3: γ versus x for YBa₂Cu_(3 − x)Fe_(x)O_(7 − δ) single crystals.
Vertical error bars represent the uncertainties for different data sets
and different fitting procedures. The dotted curve is a guide to the
eye.

Figure 2: Normalized τ(θ) for field directions within 10^(∘) of the ab
plane. The data were taken in 0.1^(∘) or 0.2^(∘) intervals. The γ values
are the best fit values for 80^(∘) < θ < 100^(∘) and they are 9.56,
18.9, and 29.1 for x = 0, 0.13, and 0.22, respectively.

planation is that a change in the Cu(2) valence may lead to an
anisotropy change. It is well known that for oxygen deficient
YBa₂Cu_(3 − x)Fe_(x)O_(7 − δ), the Cu(2) ion valence decreases [10] and
the anisotropy increases. [19] For the YBa₂Cu_(3 − x)Fe_(x)O_(7 − δ)
system, the substitution of the Fe⁺³ ions _may_ decrease the valence of
Cu ions by charge balance. However, the charge balance is complicated by
the oxygen increase [10, 12] with increasing x. Thus the link between
anisotropy and Cu(2) valence cannot be easily established.

Based on our anisotropy measurements, we would like to make a few
comments on the previous experiments with the
YBa₂Cu_(3 − x)Fe_(x)O_(7 − δ) system. Previous anisotropy measurements
of the YBa₂Cu_(3 − x)Fe_(x)O_(7 − δ) single crystals by H_(C2)
measurements perpendicular and parallel to the c axis gave a constant γ
value close to 4.5 regardless of the Fe concentration. [13] This is
probably due to the large experimental uncertainties. The same group
also measured the critical current density J_(c) of these samples and
found that at the 5 K and 1 T, J_(c) decreases upon Fe doping. [20] Such
measurements seemingly contradict the observation that the twinning and
disorder increase upon Fe doping for x < 0.1, [9] which should lead to
higher flux pinning and higher J_(c). This possibly could be reconciled
by the increase of γ which leads to a smaller tilt modulus of the flux
lattice [21] and tends to reduce the overall pinning strengths.

## References

* [1] V. G. Kogan and J. R. Clem, Phys. Rev. B **24**, 2497 (1981). *
[2] V. G. Kogan, Phys. Rev. B **38**, 7049 (1988). * [3] Z. Hao and J.
R. Clem, Phys. Rev. B **43**, 7622 (1991). * [4] G. Blatter, V. B.
Geshkenbein, and A. I. Larkin, Phys. Rev. Lett. **68**, 875 (1992). *
[5] B. Janossy, R. Hergt, and L. Fruchter, Physica C **170**, 22
(1990). * [6] R. G. Beck, M. F. Booth, D. E. Farrell, J. P. Rice, and D.
M. Ginsberg, Philos. Mag. B **65**(6), 1373 (1992). * [7] U. Welp, W. K.
Kwok, G. W. Crabtree, K. G. Vandervoort, and J. Z. Liu, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**32**, 2184 (1989). * [8] T. A. Friedmann, M. W. Rabin, J.
Giapintzakis, J. P. Rice, and D. M. Ginsberg, Phys. Rev. B **42**, 6217
(1990). * [9] Youwen Xu, M. Suenaga, J. Tafto, R. L. Sabatini, A. R.
Moodenbaugh, and P. Zolliker, Phys. Rev. B **39**, 6667 (1989). * [10]
J. M. Tarascon, P. Barboux, P. F. Miceli, L. H. Greene, and G. W. Hull,
Phys. Rev. B **37**, 7458 (1988). * [11] Yoshiteru Maeno, T. Tomita, M.
Kyogoku, S. Awaji, Y. Aoki, K. Hoshino, A. Minami, and T. Fujita, Nature
**328**, 512 (1987). * [12] C. Y. Yang, S. M. Heald, J. M. Tranquada, Y.
Xu, Y. L. Wang, A. R. Moodenbaugh, D. O. Welch, and M. Suenaga, Phys.
Rev. B **39**, 6681 (1989). * [13] M. D. Lan, J. Z. Liu, Y. X. Jia, Lu
Zhang, Y. Nagata, P. Klavins, and R. N. Shelton, Phys. Rev. B **47**,
457 (1993). * [14] Y. Iye, I. Oguro, T. Tamegai, W. R. Datars, N.
Motohira, and K. Kitazawa, Physica C **199**, 154 (1992). * [15] J. Z.
Liu, G. W. Crabtree, A. Umezawa, and Li Zongquan, Phys. Lett. **121**,
305 (1987). * [16] M. D. Lan, J. Z. Liu, and R. N. Shelton, Phys. Rev. B
**43**, 12 989 (1991). * [17] D. E. Farrell, C. M. Williams, S. A. Wolf,
N. P. Bansal, and V. G. Kogan, Phys. Rev. Lett. **61**, 2805 (1988). *
[18] D. E. Farrell, S. Bonham, J. Foster, Y. C. Chang, P. Z. Jiang, K.
G. Vandervoort, D. J. Lam, and V. G. Kogan, Phys. Rev. Lett. **63**, 782
(1989). * [19] W. Bauhofer, W. Biberacher, B. Gegenheimer, W. Joss, R.
K. Kremer, Hj. Mattausch, A. Muller, and A. Simon, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**63**, 2520 (1989). * [20] M. D. Lan, J. Z. Liu, and R. N. Shelton,
Phys. Rev. B **44**, 2751 (1991). * [21] E. H. Brandt, Int. J. Mod.
Phys. B **5**, 751 (1991), and references therein; Phys. Rev. Lett.
**66**, 1781 (1991).
