# Pressure-induced superconductivity in Ag_(x)Bi_(2 − x)Se₃

Tong He

Xiaofan Yang

Takahiro Terao

Takaki Uchiyama

Teppei Ueno

Kaya Kobayashi

Jun Akimitsu

Takafumi Miyazaki

Takumi Nishioka

Koji Kimura

Kouichi Hayashi

Naohisa Happo

Hitsohi Yamaoka

Hirotumi Ishii

Yen-Fa Liao

Hiromi Ota

Midenori Goto

Yoshihiro Kubozono

Research Institute for Interdisciplinary Science, Okayama University,
Okayama 700-8530, Japan Research Institute for Interdisciplinary
Science, Okayama University, Okayama 700-8530, Japan Department of
Physical Science and Engineering, Nagoya Institute of Technology, Nagoya
466-8555, Japan Frontier Research Institute for Materials Science,
Nagoya Institute of Technology, Nagoya 466-8555, Japan Graduate School
of Information Science, Hiroshima City University, Hiroshima 731-3194,
Japan RIKEN SPring-8 Center, Hyogo 679-5148, Japan National Synchrotron
Radiation Research Center, Hsinchu 30076, Taiwan Advanced Science
Research Center, Okayama University, Okayama 700-8530, Japan

###### Abstract

We investigated the pressure dependence of electric transport and
crystal structure of Ag-doped Bi₂Se₃. In the sample prepared by Ag
doping of Bi₂Se₃, the Bi atom was partially replaced by Ag, i.e.,
Ag_(0.05)Bi_(1.95)Se₃. X-ray diffraction patterns of
Ag_(0.05)Bi_(1.95)Se₃ measured at 0-30 GPa showed three different
structural phases, with rhombohedral, monoclinic, and tetragonal
structures forming in turn as pressure increased, and structural phase
transitions at 8.8 and 24 GPa. Ag_(0.05)Bi_(1.95)Se₃ showed no
superconductivity down to 2.0 K at 0 GPa, but under pressure,
superconductivity suddenly appeared at 11 GPa. The magnetic field (_H_)
dependence of the superconducting transition temperature _T_c was
measured at 11 and 20.5 GPa, in order to investigate whether the
pressure-induced superconducting phase is explained by either _p_-wave
polar model or _s_-wave model.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.97.104503

## 1 Introduction

Topological insulators have been extensively studied in the past decade,
because of their exciting electronic properties and possible application
in electronics [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15]. A
topological insulator is a quantum matter, with a band gap in its bulk
structure and gapless states at its surface. These electronic states are
completely protected by time-reversal symmetry. Thus, a topological
insulator is topologically different from a traditional insulator. The
most studied topological insulator is Bi₂Se₃, which has a single Dirac
cone [6]. The transport properties of Bi₂Se₃ suggest that its Fermi
level does not cross the surface states but a conduction band [9, 10,
11], i.e., electrical transport shows metallic behavior in Bi₂Se₃. This
is due to a deficiency of Se atoms, providing electrons to shift the
Fermi level upward. The angle-resolved photoemission spectrum (ARPES)
clearly shows the crossing of the Fermi level to the conduction band of
Bi₂Se₃[10, 11]. To lower the Fermi level to match the Dirac point, Ca
doping of Bi₂Se₃ was performed, and the resistivity, scanning tunneling
spectroscopy, and ARPES measurements showed the complete crossing of the
Fermi level to the Dirac point [12, 13]. Ca atoms are substituted for Bi
atoms to donate holes. Such a Fermi level tuning was also achieved by
adjusting the value of x in Bi_(2 − x)Sb_(x)Te_(3 − y)Se_(y)[14, 15].

The first discovery of superconductivity in a topological insulator was
achieved in Cu-doped Bi₂Se₃, providing a superconducting transition
temperature _T_c as high as 3.8 K [16]. Here, it should be noted that
the Cu atom is not substituted for Bi but is intercalated into the space
between two Bi₂Se₃ layers with different orientations, which indicates
electron donation to the Bi₂Se₃ layers. Subsequently, Sr doping of
Bi₂Se₃, Sr_(0.05)Bi₂Se₃, led to superconductivity, with _T_c as high as
2.5 K [17]. Here it is reported that the Sr atom is intercalated into
the space between layers, indicating electron doping of the Bi₂Se₃
layer. Furthermore, applying pressure to Sr_(0.05)Bi₂Se₃ provides
superconductivity with a _T_c of 8.3 K at 14 GPa [18]. The application
of pressure to Sr_(0.065)Bi₂Se₃ yielded three different superconducting
phases: (1) The _T_c rapidly decreased with an increase in pressure up
to 1 GPa. (2) A _T_c of 4 K emerged at 6 GPa, and slowly decreased up to
12 GPa. (3) A _T_c of 8.3 K was suddenly observed at 14 GPa, and it
slowly decreased with increasing pressure up to 80 GPa, although the
_T_c was still above 7 K at 80 GPa. The emergence of three
superconducting phases in Sr_(0.065)Bi₂Se₃ may be closely related to
that of three crystal phases. This superconductivity was assigned to a
_p_-wave coupling. Pressure applied to nondoped Bi₂Se₃ also produced
superconductivity, although no superconductivity was observed at ambient
pressure [19]. The superconductivity emerged at 12 GPa, and the _T_c was
4.4 K. The _T_c rapidly increased with increasing pressure up to 17.2
GPa, reaching a maximum _T_c of 8.2 K. Further application of pressure
up to 24 GPa resulted in a lowering of _T_c, which remained constant at
24-32 GPa. This behavior is different from that of Sr-doped Bi₂Se₃.
Furthermore, it was found that Nb doping of Bi₂Se₃ produced
superconductivity with a _T_c as high as 3.2 K [20].

Here we report the preparation and characterization of Ag-doped Bi₂Se₃,
and the pressure dependence of its crystal structure and transport
properties. As described later, the Ag-doped Bi₂Se₃ is written as
Ag_(0.05)Bi_(1.95)Se₃, because the Ag was not intercalated into the
Bi₂Se₃ lattice, but substituted for Bi atoms. Therefore, hole doping
should be probably achieved for Bi₂Se₃, although not in Sr_(0.055)Bi₂Se₃
and Cu_(x)Bi₂Se₃, which correspond to electron-doped Bi₂Se₃[16, 17].
Based on this background, we strongly intended to induce
superconductivity in hole-doped Bi₂Se₃ (or Ag_(0.05)Bi_(1.95)Se₃) by
applying pressure. If this could be achieved, it would be the first
observation of superconductivity in hole-doped Bi₂Se₃ (i.e., the Fermi
level of Bi₂Se₃ is downward tuned).

In this study, the pressure dependence of the crystal structure was
determined from pressure-dependent powder x-ray diffraction (XRD)
patterns at 0-30 GPa. Moreover, measurement of electric transport at
0-26 GPa showed the emergence of pressure-driven superconductivity at 11
GPa, and the maximum $T_{\rm c}$ of 7 K was confirmed at 17 GPa. The
pressure dependence of $T_{\rm c}$ was significantly different from that
of nondoped Bi₂Se₃[19], and was similar to that of Sr_(0.055)Bi₂Se₃[18].
The superconductivity was fully investigated from the magnetic field (H)
dependence of $T_{\rm c}$ at 11 and 20.5 GPa.

## II II. Experimental procedure and characterization

Crystals of Ag-doped Bi₂Se₃, Ag_(0.05)Bi₂Se₃, were grown by a
conventional melt-growth method using stoichiometric amounts of Ag, Bi,
and Se powders. The detailed process was as follows: the powders were
sealed in a quartz tube which was heated at 800 degC for 12 h, then
slowly cooled down to 650 degC at the rate of 30 degC/h, and then
quenched with ice water. The obtained crystals showed a clear basal
plane structure. An optical image of a crystal-like Ag_(0.05)Bi₂Se₃,
lump is shown in Fig. 1(a).

The energy-dispersive x-ray spectroscopy (EDX) spectrum of the
Ag_(0.05)Bi₂Se₃ lump (not shown) was recorded with an EDX spectrometer
equipped with a scanning electron microscope (KEYENCE VE-9800-EDAX
Genesis XM2). The EDX spectra were measured for five different positions
of the Ag_(0.05)Bi₂Se₃ lump at room temperature. From the EDX spectra,
the chemical composition of the Ag_(0.05)Bi₂Se₃ sample was determined to
be Ag_(0.061(7))Bi₂Se_(3.54(8)), in which the quantity of Bi was
adjusted to 2, showing the presence of Ag in this crystal. Since the
deviation of stoichiometry for Se is a little large, this problem is
discussed later.

The crystal structure was determined by single-crystal XRD measurement
of the Ag_(0.05)Bi₂Se₃ crystal, which was obtained by cutting off a
small piece (∼100-μm scale) of the lump of Ag_(0.05)Bi₂Se₃, and using a
Rigaku Saturn 724 diffractometer equipped with a Mo Kα source
(wavelength λ = 0.71073 A); the measurement was performed at 100 K. The
crystal structure was rhombohedral (space group: $R\bar{3}m$) which is
consistent with that of Bi₂Se₃[21]. The lattice constants a and c were
determined to be 4.146(6) and 28.66(4) A, respectively, which are close
to those of Bi₂Se₃ (4.18 and 28.7 A) [21]. Admittedly, the c values are
not so expanded in Cu_(x)Bi₂Se₃ (c = 28.736(1) A [16]) and Sr_(x)Bi₂Se₃
(c = 28.598 A [17]) in which Cu and Sr are intercalated into the space
between Bi₂Se₃ layers. The c value [=28.66(4) A] of Ag-doped Bi₂Se₃ is
an intermediate value between the c values of Cu_(x)Bi₂Se₃ and
Sr_(x)Bi₂Se₃. In any case, it is difficult to identify whether Ag is
intercalated or substituted for Bi from the lattice constant c. A
refined view of the crystal structure shows that no Ag atoms appear in
any location other than the 6c and 3a sites, indicating that the Ag atom
may not be intercalated, i.e., the chemical composition can be expressed
as Ag_(0.05)Bi_(1.95)Se₃. The structural information is fully described
elsewhere [22].

Finally, a multiple-energy x-ray fluorescence hologram around a Ag atom
in the Ag_(0.05)Bi₂Se₃ was measured at BL13XU of SPring-8. Ag Kα
fluorescent x rays (22.16 keV) were collected using an avalanche
photodiode detector via a cylindrical graphite crystal energy analyzer,
at 11 different incident x-ray energies from 26.0 to 31.0 keV in steps
of 0.5 keV. Experimental details are given elsewhere [23]. Figure 1(b)
shows a real image of the local structure around a Ag atom,
reconstructed from an x-ray fluorescence hologram of the Ag_(0.05)Bi₂Se₃
crystal using the Barton multiple-energy reconstruction algorithm [24].
This image suggests that the Ag atom is surrounded by six Bi atoms in a
hexagonal arrangement, indicating that Ag is partially substituted for
Bi. The chemical composition can be expressed as Ag_(0.05)Bi_(1.95)Se₃.
It would be written as Ag_(0.059(7))Bi_(1.941)Se_(3.44(8)) if using the
EDX’s result. The stoichiometry of Se, 3.44(8), deviates from the
nominal value of Se, 3.0. We further evaluated the stoichiometry from
the EDX spectra measured for six Ag_(0.05)Bi₂Se₃ single crystals
prepared in the same experimental conditions, including the above single
crystal. The averaged stoichiometry was expressed as
Ag_(0.08(2))Bi_(1.91)Se_(3.1(6)) (=Ag_(0.09(2))Bi₂Se_(3.2(6))). The
averaged value of Se’s stoichiometry evaluated from six single crystals
is closer to 3.0 than the value evaluated for one selected single
crystal described above. Actually, the estimated standard deviation is a
little large, and it is unclear whether the Se is deficient or excessive
in comparison with the nominal value 3.0. Thus, the stoichiometry of Se
is a little scattered around 3.0 depending on the used crystals.

Therefore, we employ the EDX data only to confirm that Ag is contained
in the crystal. Consequently, the sample’s chemical formula is written
as Ag_(0.05)Bi_(1.95)Se₃ throughout this paper by considering the
substitution of Bi with Ag, and the scattering of stoichiometry of Se
around 3.0 depending on crystals. The partial substitution of Bi with Ag
indicates a possible hole doping in Ag_(x)Bi_(2 − x)Se₃, i.e., the Fermi
level of Bi₂Se₃ is downward tuned. The drastic change of transport
property in Ag_(x)Bi_(2 − x)Se₃ with respect to that in Bi₂Se₃ also
suggests a hole doping [22]. Namely, the transport property of
Ag_(x)Bi_(2 − x)Se₃ showed an insulating behavior at high temperature
range, in contrast to a metallic one of Bi₂Se₃, which was reasonably
explained by a downward shift of the Fermi level caused by hole doping.

Powder XRD patterns of the Ag_(0.05)Bi_(1.95)Se₃ sample were measured
under pressure at 297 K, using synchrotron radiation at BL12B2 of
SPring-8; the wavelength λ of the x-ray beam was 0.6889 A. The powder
sample obtained by grinding the Ag_(0.05)Bi_(1.95)Se₃ lump was used for
the powder XRD measurement. A diamond-anvil cell (DAC) was used for the
high-pressure XRD measurement, with the powder sample loaded into the
hole of an SUS plate. Daphne 7373 was used as the pressure medium for
XRD measurement under high pressure. The pressure was determined by
monitoring ruby fluorescence.

The dc magnetic susceptibility (M/H) of the small lumps (1-mm scale) of
Ag0.05Bi1.95Se3 was recorded by a superconducting quantum interference
device magnetometer (Quantum Design MPMS2) at ambient pressure (0 GPa).
M and H refer to magnetization and applied magnetic field, respectively.
The temperature dependence of the resistance (R) of a small lump (200-μm
scale) of Ag0.05Bi1.95Se3 was measured in four-terminal measurement mode
under pressure. The small Ag0.05Bi1.95Se3 lump was introduced into the
DAC in air because this sample is not air-sensitive. The sample was
loaded directly on a Kapton sheet/epoxy resin/rheonium in the DAC; six
Cu electrodes were attached to the Kapton sheet, and this cell was used
for measuring the R of sample. NaCl was used as the pressure medium for
the R measurement under high pressure. The applied pressure was
determined by monitoring ruby fluorescence.

The R of the sample was measured in standard four-terminal measurement
mode using an Oxford superconducting magnet system. The temperature was
precisely regulated using an Oxford Instruments MercuryiTc. The H was
controlled using Oxford Instruments MercuryiPS. Electric current (I) was
supplied by a Keithley 220 programmable current source, and the exact
value of I was monitored by an Advantest R-8240 digital electrometer.
The voltage (V) was measured by an Agilent 34420 digital nanovoltmeter.

## III Results and Discussion

Figure 1(c) shows the crystal structure of Ag0.05Bi1.95Se3 as determined
from single-crystal x-ray diffraction analysis at

Figure 1: (a) Optical image of a crystal-like lump of Ag0.05Bi1.95Se3.
(b) Real-space image of the local structure around a Ag atom in
Ag0.05Bi1.95Se3 reconstructed from the x-ray fluorescence hologram. The
Ag atom is at the origin of this image. (c) Crystal structure of
Ag0.05Bi1.95Se3, determined from single-crystal x-ray diffraction
analysis at 0 GPa.

0 GPa. The crystal lattice consisted of two asymmetry units (2 x
Bi₂Se₃), showing two-dimensional crystal structure. Figure 2(a) shows
the XRD patterns at 0-30 GPa, which indicate clear structural phase
transitions at 8.8 and 24 GPa. By analogy with the structural
transitions of Sr_(0.065)Bi₂Se₃[18], the first structure below 8.8 GPa
was assigned to a rhombohedral structure [space group: $R^{3}\bar{3}m$
(No. 166)], while the second structure at 8.8 GPa  ≤ p ≤ 21 GPa and the
third structure above 21 GPa were assigned, respectively, to monoclinic
[space group: C2/m (No. 12)] and tetragonal structures [space group:
I4/mmm (No. 139)]. The pressures driving structural transitions were
almost the same as those, 8.1 and 25 GPa, for Sr_(0.065)Bi₂Se₃. The
first, second, and third structures are called phase I, phase II, and
phase III, respectively. As seen from Fig. 2(a), small XRD peaks due to
phase I are still found in addition to those of phase II at p = 8.8-11
GPa, but the peaks due to phase I substantially disappear above 11 GPa.
On the other hand, the peaks due to phase II are observed together with
those due to phase III at p ≥ 24 GPa, although the intensity of the
phase II peaks diminishes with pressure; the volume fractions of phase
II and phase III were not determined in the pressure range, but the
phase II drastically decreased when increasing pressure above 24 GPa. A
similar pattern of behavior is also found in Sr_(0.065)Bi₂Se₃[18], i.e.,
the phase transition is not very sharp as pressure changes, but a bit
broad.

Le Baii fitting was achieved for the XRD patterns of
Ag_(0.05)Bi_(1.95)Se₃ by assuming the above crystal structures at each
pressure. The lattice constants were determined by Le Baii fitting as
follows. Lattice constants a and c at 0.18 GPa ($R^{3}\bar{3}m$) were
4.1420(1) and 28.612(3) A, respectively. Constants a, b, and c, and β at
13 GPa (C2/m) were 13.637(1), 3.9252(6), and 16.251(3) A, and
148.874(4)^(∘), respectively. Furthermore, a and c at 30 GPa (I4/mmm)
were 3.4611(4) and 16.628(2) A, respectively. Figures 2(b) and 2(c) show
the pressure dependence of lattice constants and volume per
Ag_(0.05)Bi_(1.95)Se₃. As seen in Fig. 2(c), a discontinuous change of
volume is observed at 8.8 and 24 GPa, indicating the first-order phase
transition. To be exact, as seen from Fig. 2(c), the transition at 24
GPa may not be so sharp, i.e., the V of phase II approaches that of
phase III at around 26 GPa. Thus, Ag_(0.05)Bi_(1.95)Se₃ shows
pressure-induced multiple structural phase transitions as pressure
varies from 0 to 30 GPa.

The M/H-T plot of Ag_(0.05)Bi_(1.95)Se₃ at 0 GPa (not shown) did not
show any superconducting transition down to 2.5 K, implying that
Ag0.05Bi1.99Se3 is not a superconductor at 0 GPa. The _R_-_T_ plots of
Ag0.05Bi1.99Se3 at 0-6.4 GPa show no drop in R even at low temperature
[Fig. 3(a)], indicating no superconducting transition. On the other
hand, a slight drop in R was observed at 11 GPa [inset of Fig. 3(a)],
indicating the emergence of a superconducting transition. The _T_c was
5.5 K at 11 GPa. To confirm that the drop was due to a superconducting
transition, the H dependence of the _R_-_T_ plot was investigated at 11
GPa from 0.0 to 2.5 T. It was seen that the R drop was suppressed with
H, and the _T_c decreased gradually [Fig. 3(b)].

With increasing pressure, the R drop became clearer, as seen from Figs.
3(c)-3(e). The minimum R below _T_c approached

Figure 3: (a) _R_-_T_ plots of Ag0.05Bi1.99Se3 at 0–11 GPa. (b) _R_-_T_
plots of Ag0.05Bi1.99Se3 at different _H_’s at 11-GPa pressure. (c)
_R_-_T_ plots of Ag0.05Bi1.99Se3 at 12–22.5 GPa. (d) _R_-_T_ plots of
Ag0.05Bi1.99Se3 at different _H_’s at 20.5-GPa pressure. (e) _R_-_T_
plots of Ag0.05Bi1.99Se3 at 24–25 GPa; the _R_-_T_ plot at 26 GPa is not
shown because only the _R_-_T_ plot was measured in two-terminal
measurement mode and the R values were very high, although the
superconducting transition was clearly found.

zero. Furthermore, two step R drops were observed in the pressure range
of 17 to 24 GPa, and only a single drop was found above 24 GPa [see Fig.
3(e)]. The H dependence of the _R_-_T_ plot was investigated at 20.5 GPa
[Fig. 3(d)], and shows that the R drop is suppressed with H, and the
_T_c decreases gradually. Thus, it has been confirmed that the R drop
can be confidently assigned to a superconducting transition, a result
that provides an observation of superconductivity in hole-doped Bi₂Se₃.
The analyses of _R_-_T_ plots did not lead to consideration of the small
drop of R observed below 3.0 K, because of the possibility of a
superconducting transition of rhenium showing the _T_c ≤ 3.3 K at 0-20
GPa, which was used inside of DAC, although no contact between
electrodes and rhenium was confirmed at any pressure.

The absolute R above _T_c (normal state) increased with increasing
pressure up to 11 GPa, but it showed a complex change against pressure
above 11 GPa as follows: (1) The R value in the normal state suddenly
decreased at 15 GPa, and gradually increased up to 20.5 GPa. (2) The R
value suddenly decreased at 21 GPa, and then it rapidly increased
against pressure above 21 GPa. Aside from the behavior of the R value at
21 GPa, the R value in the normal state increases with increasing
pressure above 11 GPa. At the present stage, such a complex change
cannot be well explained, i.e., we cannot say clearly whether it is
owing to an intrinsic behavior or a variation of experimental condition
such as contact. Therefore, in this study we will comment on only a
superconducting transition shown in _R_-_T_ plots (Fig. 3), because it
can be unambiguously and exactly explored.

Figure 4(a) shows the pressure dependence of the _T_c of
Ag_(0.05)Bi_(1.95)Se₃ which was determined from the _R_-_T_ plots shown
in Figs. 3(a), 3(c), and 3(e). As seen in Fig. 4(a), superconductivity
emerged in phase II, and no superconductivity is observed in phase I.
Two superconducting phases (high-_T_c and low-_T_c phases) are observed
at 17-24 GPa which is still in phase II categorized from XRD patterns.
The high-_T_c phase

Figure 4: (a) Pressure dependence of _T_c in Ag_(0.05)Bi_(1.95)Se₃
(_T_c−_p_ phase diagram). _R_^(*)(_t_)−_t_ plots of the superconducting
phases in Ag_(0.05)Bi_(1.95)Se₃ at (b) 11 and (c) 20.5 GPa. The solid
and dashed lines refer to the theoretical _h_^(*)(_t_)−_t_ curves
(_s_-wave and _p_-wave model), respectively [see (b) and (c)].

shows $T_{\rm c}\sim 7$ K, while the low-$T_{\rm c}$ phase shows 3.6 K
$\leqslant T_{\rm c}\leqslant 5.5$ K. The low-$T_{\rm c}$ phase
completely disappeared in phase III. This behavior is similar to that of
Sr_(0.065)Bi₂Se₃, providing two superconducting phases in phase II [18].
However, two superconducting phases did not coexist in Sr_(0.065)Bi₂Se₃,
unlike in Ag_(0.05)Bi_(1.95)Se₃.

Here, we suggest the scenario that a slow variation from phase II
relating to low-$T_{\rm c}$ superconductivity to phase III relating to
high-$T_{\rm c}$ superconductivity takes place before the structural
transition of phase II to phase III is observed above 23 GPa. Namely,
phase III may extend gradually from 17 GPa, suggesting that phase III is
filamentary formed above 17 GPa before the formation of bulk phase III
above 23 GPa. Although phase II is still observed above 23 GPa in the
XRD pattern, a drastic decrease in phase II makes it difficult to detect
the low-$T_{\rm c}$ phase above 23 GPa.

The behavior of $T_{\rm c}$ with pressure in Ag_(0.05)Bi_(1.95)Se₃ is
significantly different from that in Bi₂Se₃ where only a single
superconducting phase was observed above 10 GPa [19]. Precisely stated,
the $T_{\rm c}$ of Bi₂Se₃ increases continuously up to 17.2 GPa, then
decreases up to 20 GPa, and finally becomes constant above 24 GPa. Thus,
the pressure dependence of $T_{\rm c}$ in Ag_(0.05)Bi_(1.95)Se₃ does not
show similarity to Bi₂Se₃ but to Sr_(0.065)Bi₂Se₃. Here, we must stress
that the pressure-driven superconductivity in Ag_(0.05)Bi_(1.95)Se₃
relates closely to the structural phase transitions. Therefore, the
electronic properties in phase II and phase III, where different
superconducting phases emerge, must be clarified from the
pressure-dependent Hall-effect and x-ray emission spectroscopy as well
as theoretical calculation; we do not have any calculation supporting
that the monoclinic and tetragonal phases of Ag-doped Bi₂Se₃ are
topological materials. These works are now in progress.

Finally, we must consider whether this superconductivity should be
categorized as "unconventional superconductivity" (or "topological
superconductivity"). The previous study of the temperature dependence of
the upper critical field, $H_{\rm c2}$, of Sr_(0.065)Bi₂Se₃ showed that
the superconductivity may originate in spin-triplet p-wave coupling
[18]. In this study, the values of the reduced critical field,
$h^{*}(T)=\left[\frac{H_{\rm c2}}{T_{\rm c}}\right]/[-\frac{H_{\rm c2}(T)}{dT}] _{T=T_{\rm c}}=\frac{H_{\rm c2}(T)}{T_{\rm c}\times[-\frac{H_{\rm c2}(T)}{dT}] _{T=T_{\rm c}}}=\frac{H_{\rm c2}(T)}{H_{\rm c2}(0)}$,
of Ag_(0.05)Bi_(1.95)Se₃ at 11 and 20.5 GPa were plotted as a function
of t (=$T/T_{\rm c}$) [Figs. 4(b) and 4(c)]. The h^(*)(t) − t plot shown
in Fig. 4(b) reflects the low-$T_{\rm c}$ phase observed at 11 GPa since
the $T_{\rm c}$ and $H_{\rm c2}$ are obtained from the R drop, as shown
in Fig. 3(b). As seen from Fig. 4(b), the observed h^(*)(t) value may
not converge to 0.69 at t = 0, the value which is expected from the
Werthamer-Helfand-Hohenberg theory, which refers to the s-wave
dirty-limit superconductivity [25, 26, 27]. This behavior is the same as
that of Sr_(0.065)Bi₂Se₃[18]. The h^(*)(0) value should become 0.80-0.85
for the p-wave polar model [18, 26, 28, 29]. The observed h^(*)(t) − t
plot [Fig. 4(b)] shows a linear relationship which may follow the p-wave
model [see Fig. 4(b)]. However, the theoretical curve of s-wave clean
limit may also follow the experimental h^(*) − t plot. As a consequence,
the pressure-induced superconducting phase of Ag_(0.05)Bi_(1.95)Se₃ at
11 GPa may not definitely be identified to be an unconventional
superconductor that follows the p-wave polar model, although the
h^(*) − t plot of Sr_(0.065)Bi₂Se₃ at 19.5 GPa was followed by the above
model [18]. Actually, the number of data points is insufficient for a
complete identification of p-wave model for the pressure-induced
superconducting phase of Ag_(0.05)Bi_(1.95)Se₃ at 11 GPa. In addition,
the pressure-induced superconductivity of nondoped Bi₂Se₃ can also be
classified as a topological superconductor from the h^(*)(t) − t plot
[29]. Thus, we must obtain h^(*) values in a wider t range to finally
determine whether the pressure-induced superconductivity in Ag-doped
Bi₂Se₃ is explained by the p-wave polar model, in the same manner as
Bi₂Se₃[29] and Sr doped Bi₂Se₃[18].

The h^(*)(t) − t plot for the high-$T_{\rm c}$ phase of
Ag_(0.05)Bi_(1.95)Se₃ found at 20.5 GPa is shown in Fig. 4(c); the
$T_{\rm c}$ and $H_{\rm c2}$ are obtained from the R drop due to the
high-$T_{\rm c}$ phase shown in Fig. 3(d). As seen from Fig. 4(c), it is
unclear whether the observed h^(*)(t) values are followed by the p-wave
model, because of insufficient h^(*) value against t. Thus, the
pressure-induced superconducting phase (high-$T_{\rm c}$ phase:
$T_{\rm c}\sim 7$ K) of Ag_(0.05)Bi_(1.95)Se₃ at 20.5 GPa should also be
more carefully investigated, in the same manner as the superconducting
phase at 11 GPa [Fig. 4(b)].

## IV Conclusions and Outlook

Two pressure-driven superconducting phases were found in
Ag_(0.05)Bi_(1.95)Se₃ at p ≥ 11 GPa where two crystal phases (phase II
and phase III) appeared. The low-$T_{\rm c}$ superconducting phase
($T_{\rm c}=5.5$ K) appeared at 11 GPa, and its $T_{\rm c}$ value
decreased gradually with increasing pressure up to 15 GPa; the
$T_{\rm c}$ value in the low-$T_{\rm c}$ phase became 3.6 K at 15 GPa
and it did not vary up to 24 GPa. The high-$T_{\rm c}$ superconducting
phase ($T_{\rm c}=7$ K) emerged suddenly at 17 GPa, and it did not
change up to 26 GPa. The low-$T_{\rm c}$ and high-$T_{\rm c}$ phases
coexisted up to 24 GPa. Above 24 GPa, only a high-$T_{\rm c}$ phase was
observed. To sum up, the superconductivity in Ag-doped Bi₂Se₃ is
superconductivity realized in hole-doped Bi₂Se₃, in which the Fermi
level should be moved downward from the conduction band; the Fermi level
of nondoped Bi₂Se₃ crosses the conduction band [9, 10, 11]. We could not
definitely conclude whether the superconducting phases observed at 11
and 20.5 GPa can be categorized as unconventional topological
superconductor which follows p-wave polar model, because of insufficient
h^(*) − t plot. Nevertheless, this study may provide this research field
with a useful starting point for studying topological superconductivity,
as well as pressure-driven superconductivity. The mechanism of
pressure-induced superconductivity in Ag_(x)Bi_(2 − x)Se₃ must be
further pursued.

## Acknowledgments

This study was partly supported by Grants-in-Aid (Grants No. 26105004
and No. 17K05500) from MEXT, by JST ACT-C Grant No. JPMJCR12YW, Japan,
and by the Program for Promoting the Enhancement of Research
Universities. The XRD measurements at SPring-8 were carried out under
Proposals No. 2017B4133 and No. 2017B4138, and the x-ray fluorescence
holography at SPring-8 was measured under Proposals No. 2016A0124 and
No. 2016B0124.

* [1] C. L. Kane and E. J. Mele, Z₃Topological Order and the Quantum
Spin Hall Effect, Phys. Rev. Lett. **95**, 146802 (2005). * [2] J. E.
Moore and L. Balents, Topological invariants of time-reversal-invariant
band structures, Phys. Rev. B **75**, 121306(R) (2007). * [3] M. Z.
Hasan and C. L. Kane, Colloquium: Topological insulators, Rev. Mod.
Phys. **82**, 3045 (2010). * [4] D. Hsieh, D. Qian, L. Wray, Y. Xia, Y.
S. Hor, R. J. Cava, and M. Z. Hasan, A topological Dirac insulator in a
quantum spin Hall phase, Nature (London) **452**, 970 (2008). * [5] L.
Fu and C. L. Kane, Topological insulators with inversion symmetry, Phys.
Rev. B **76**, 045302 (2007). * [6] Y. Xia, D. Qian, D. Hsieh, L. Wray,
A. Pal, H. Lin, A. Bansil, D. Grauer, Y. S. Hor, R. J. Cava, and M. Z.
Hasan, Discovery (theoretical prediction and experimental observation)
of a large-gap topological-insulator class with spin-polarized
single-Dirac-cone on the surface, Nat. Phys. **5**, 398 (2009). * [7] Y.
L. Chen, J. G. Analytis, J. H. Chu, Z. K. Liu, S. K. Mo, X. L. Qi, H. J.
Zhang, D. H. Lu, X. Dai, Z. Fang, S.-C. Zhang, I. R. Fisher, Z. Hussain,
and Z.-X. Shen, Experimental realization of a three-dimensional
topological insulator, Bi₂Te₅, Science **325**, 178 (2009). * [8] D.
Hsieh, Y. Xia, D. Qian, L. Wray, F. Meier, J. H. Dil, J. Osterwalder, L.
Patthey, A. V. Fedorov, H. Lin, A. Bansil, D. Grauer, Y. S. Hor, R. J.
Cava, and M. Z. Hasan, Observation of Time-Reversal-Protected
Single-Dirac-Cone Topological-Insulator States in Bi₂Te₃ and Sb₂Te₃,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **103**, 146401 (2009). * [9] N. P. Butch, K.
Kirshenbaum, P. Syers, A. B. Sushkov, G. S. Jenkins, H. D. Drew, and J.
Paglione, Strong surface scattering in
ultrahigh-mobilityBi₂Se₃topological insulator crystals, Phys. Rev. B
**81**, 241301(R) (2010). * [10] J. G. Analytis, J. H. Chu, Y. L. Chen,
F. Corredor, R. D. McDonald, Z.-X. Shen, and I. R. Fisher, Bulk Fermi
surface coexistence with Dirac surface state inBi₂Se₃: A comparison of
photoemission and Shubnikov-de Haas measurements, Phys. Rev. B **81**,
205407 (2010). * [11] D. O. Scanlon, P. D. C. King, R. P. Singh, A. de
la Torre, S. M. Walker, G. Balakrishnan, F. Baumberger, and C. R. A.
Catlow, Controlling bulk conductivity in topological insulators: Key
role of anti-site defects, Adv. Mater. **24**, 2154 (2012). * [12] Z. Y.
Wang, T. Lin, P. Wei, X. F. Liu, R. Dumas, K. Liu, and J. Shi, Tuning
carrier type and density in Bi₂Se₃ by Ca-doping, Appl. Phys. Lett.
**97**, 0441212 (2010). * [13] Y. S. Hor, A. Richardella, P. Roushan, Y.
Xia, J. G. Checkelsky, A. Yazdani, M. Z. Hasan, N. P. Ong, and R. J.
Cava, p-type Bi₂Se₃ for topological insulator and low-temperature
thermoelectric applications, Phys. Rev. B **79**, 195208 (2009). * [14]
Z. Ren, A. A. Taskin, S. Sasaki, K. Segawa, and Y. Ando, Optimizing
Bi_(2, 3)Sb_(x)Te_(3, 5)Se_(y) solid solutions to approach the intrinsic
topological insulator regime, Phys. Rev. B **84**, 165311 (2011). * [15]
T. Arakane, T. Sato, S. Souma, K. Kosaka, K. Nakayama, M. Komatsu, T.
Takahashi, Z. Ren, K. Segawa, and Y. Ando, Tunable Dirac cone in the
topological insulator Bi_(2, 3),Te_(3, 5)Se_(y), Nat. Commun. **3**, 636
(2012). * [16] Y. S. Hor, A. J. Williams, J. G. Checkelsky, P. Roushan,
J. Seo, Q. Xu, H. W. Zandbergen, A. Yazdani, N. P. Ong, and R. J. Cava,
Superconductivity in Cu_(x)Bi₂Se₃ and its Implications for Pairing in
the Undoped Topological Insulator, Phys. Rev. Lett. **104**, 057001
(2010). * [17] Z. H. Liu, X. Yang, J. F. Shao, M. Zuo, L. Pi, S. Tan, C.
J. Zhang, and Y. H. Zhang, Superconductivity with topological surface
state in Sr₃Bi₂Se₃, J. Am. Chem. Soc. **137**, 10512 (2015). * [18] Y.
H. Zhou, X. L. Chen, R. R. Zhang, J. F. Shao, X. F. Wang, C. An, Y.
Zhou, C. Y. Park, W. Tong, L. Pi, Z. R. Yang, C. J. Zhang, and Y. H.
Zhang, Pressure-induced reemergence of superconductivity in topological
insulator Sr_(0.085)Bi₂Se₃, Phys. Rev. B **93**, 144514 (2016). * [19]
P. P. Kong, J. L. Zhang, S. J. Zhang, J. Zhu, Q. Q. Liu, R. C. Yu, Z.
Fang, C. Q. Jin, W. G. Yang, X. H. Yu, J. L. Zhu, and Y. S. Zhao,
Superconductivity of the topological insulator Bi₂Se₃ at high pressure,
J. Phys.: Condens. Matter **25**, 362204 (2013). * [20] T. Asaba, B. J.
Lawson, C. Tinsman, L. Chen, P. Corbae, G. Li, Y. Qiu, Y. S. Hor, L. Fu,
and L. Li, Rotational Symmetry Breaking in a Trigonal Superconductor
Nb-Doped Bi₂Se₃, Phys. Rev. X **7**, 011009 (2017). * [21] M. I.
Zargarova, P. K. Babaeva, D. S. Azhdarova, Z. D. Melikova, and S. A.
Mckhiteva, A study of the systems CuInSe₂-InSe (SnSe₂,Bi₂Se₃), Inorg.
Mater. **31**, 263 (1995). * [22] E. Uesugi, T. Uchiyama, H. Goto, H.
Ota, T. Ueno, H. Fujiwara, K. Terashima, T. Yokoya, J. Akimitsu, K.
Kobayasashi, and Y. Kubozono (unpublished). * [23] K. Hayashi, N. Happo,
S. Hosokawa, W. Hu, and T. Matsushita, X-ray fluorescence holography, J.
Phys.: Condens. Matter **24**, 093201 (2012). * [24] J. J. Barton,
Removing Multiple Scattering and Twin Images from Holographic Images,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **67**, 3106 (1991). * [25] N. R. Werthamer, E.
Helfand, and P. C. Hohenberg, Temperature and purity dependence of the
superconducting critical field, H_(c2). III. Electron spin and
spin-orbit effects, Phys. Rev. **147**, 295 (1966). * [26] K. Scharnberg
and R. A. Klemm, P-wave superconductors in magnetic fields, Phys. Rev. B
**22**, 5233 (1980). * [27] E. Helfand and N. R. Werthamer, Temperature
and purity dependence of the superconductivity critical field, H_(c2).
II, Phys. Rev. **147**, 288 (1966). * [28] K. Maki, E. Puchkaryov, G.-F.
Wang, and H. Won, Aspects of p-wave superconductivity, Chin. J. Phys.
**38**, 386 (2000). * [29] K. Kirshenbaum, P. S. Syers, A. P. Hope, N.
P. Butch, J. R. Jeffries, S. T. Weir, J. J. Hamlin, M. B. Maple, Y. K.
Vohra, and J. Paglione, Pressure-Induced Unconventional Superconducting
Phase in the Topological Insulator Bi₂Se₃, Phys. Rev. Lett. **111**,
087001 (2013).
