# Bismuth cuprate high-T_(c) superconductors using cationic substitution

J.-M. Tarascon, P. Barboux, and G. W. Hull

Bellcore, Red Bank, New Jersey 07701 National Center for Electron
Microscopy, Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory, Berkeley, California 94720
Bellcore, Red Bank, New Jersey 07701

R. Ramesh

National Center for Electron Microscopy, Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory,
Berkeley, California 94720

L. H. Greene and M. Giroud

Bellcore, Red Bank, New Jersey 07701

M. S. Hegde

Center for Ceramics Research, Rutgers University, Piscataway, New Jersey
08854

W. R. McKinnon

National Research Council, Division of Chemistry, Ottawa, Canada K1A0RC9

###### Abstract

The Bi_(x)Sr_(x)Ca_(2 − x)R_(x)Cu₄O_(y) materials (_R_ is a rare-earth
element) were studied to determine their structural and physical
properties. For most of the rare-earth elements, a complete solid
solution exists up to x = 2. Below x = 0.5, T_(c) is not affected and
for each added rare-earth element we find that about 0.5 oxygen atom is
added to the structure. However, the structural modulation observed
along the b axis for the undoped material persists and remains of the
same amplitude for the rare-earth-doped samples. When more than one R
(_x_ >= 1) is substituted, T_(c) is depressed and the compound becomes
semiconducting beyond x = 1.5. The depression in T_(c) from 85 K (_x_ =
0) to less than 4.2 K (_x_ = 1.5) correlates to a decrease in the formal
valence of copper and is independent whether the rare-earth element is
magnetic or nonmagnetic. No evidence for magnetic ordering over the
range of temperature 1.7-400 K has been observed in all the substituted
compounds. The substitution for Cu by 3d metals or for Sr by rare-earth
elements fails for the 85-K Bi phase but succeeds for the 10-K Bi phase.
Consequently, the following series Bi₂Sr₂Cu_(1 − x)M_(x)O_(y) (_M_ =
Fe,Co) and Bi₂_R_CaCuO_(y) (_R_ = La,Pr,Nd,Sm) were made for study.
These substitutions result in an uptake of oxygen (0.5 for each
substituted element). But the materials become semiconducting even
though the formal valence of Cu remains greater than 2. An
antiferromagnetic transition at 140 K has been found for the Co sample.

## I Introduction

After two years of intensive research on the high-T_(c) copper oxides,
the mechanism for superconductivity in these materials still remains to
be determined. However, the study of new materials and chemically
substituted phases has revealed several important trends in properties
and this may contribute to the developments of a viable theory. In these
materials, the formal valence of copper (between 2 and 3) is one of the
crucial parameters for the occurrence of superconductivity. Changing the
Cu valence can be achieved by cationic substitutions as in
La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄ (Refs. 1-4) (denoted as the 40-K phase) or by
modification of the oxygen content as in YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − y) (Refs. 5 and
6) (denoted as the 90-K phase). For both systems, it was found that
T_(c) increases with increasing the amount of Cu iii that is commonly
associated with the number of holes. However, in the 40-K phase there is
a threshold value, beyond which T_(c) decreases.[1, 3] Another common
feature for these cuprates, whose structure consists of a packing of
CuO₂ layers separated by ionic-type sheets, is their low dimensionality
resulting in anisotropic physical properties. From a comparison of the
40- and 90-K phases it was suggested that one-dimensional (1D) linear
CuO chains were required to obtain higher-T_(c) materials. But with the
discovery of superconductivity above 85 K for several Bi (Refs. 7-10)
and Tl (Ref. 11) oxide phases the need for Cu-O chains was unambiguously
ruled out. Finally, both the 40- and 90-K phases have closely related
"parent" compounds [such as La₂CuO₄ (Ref. 12) and YBa₂Cu₃O₆ (Ref. 13)]
that are antiferromagnetic insulators. Based on these experimental facts
and on several theoretical calculations, it has been proposed by several
authors that magnetic interactions may enhance the pairing of the
superconducting electrons.[14]-[16]

The discovery of the Bi-based materials provided another opportunity to
test the above trends dealing with copper valence, low dimensionality,
and magnetism. Since chemical substitutions have already turned out to
be of great help in enhancing our understanding of the 40- (Ref. 17) and
90-K (Refs. 18-20) phases, we extended these studies to the Bi systems.
Three phases of general formula Bi₂Sr₂Ca_(n − 1)Cu_(n)O_(y) with n = 1,
2, and 3 and T_(c)’s of re spectively 10,21,22 85,8-10 and 110 K (Refs.
23 and 24) have been isolated in the Bi system. In the following we will
name the Bi phases after their number of Bi, Sr, Ca, and Cu atoms per
formula unit so that, for example, the Bi₄Sr₇Ca₃Cu₄O₇ and Bi₂Sr₂CuO₇
will be denoted as 4:3:3:4 and 2:2:0:1, respectively. The research
results reported in this paper are concerned mainly with the 85-K phase
which is the easiest to make as a pure phase. However, some results for
the closely related 2:2:0:1 phase will be described. With the Bi phase,
in contrast to the 90-K material, the destruction of T_(c) via changes
in oxygen content is not achievable without destroying the
structure.8,24 Thus, because of the difficulties encountered in removing
oxygen from these materials, we were left only with cationic
substitution as a variable in monitoring T_(c) in the Bi-based compounds
as a function of the composition.

The pseudotetragonal substructure of the 85-K Bi phase of ideal
composition 4:4:2:4 can be viewed as a three-dimensional packing of
Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O₇ slabs along the c axis with the main feature being the
presence of crystallographically sheared BiO layers separated by a quite
long distance of 3.0 A. Because of the presence of a structural
modulation along the b axis, the real structure is not fully determined.
There are several unanswered key questions. For example, it is actually
not possible to prepare the 4:4:2:4 composition as a single phase by
solid-state reactions. In fact, a single phase is formed in the
composition range Bi₄Sr_(4 − z)Ca_(2 + z)Cu₄O_(16 + y), only with
0.5<_z_<2.0.25 This means that Ca and Sr are mixed within their
respective sites. The formula should therefore be written
Bi₄(Sr,Ca)₄(Ca,Sr)₂Cu₄O_(16 + y). The value of y is around 0.3 and the
location of these extra oxygen atoms has not yet been unambiguously
determined, although simple considerations on the structure have placed
them between the Bi-O layers.8 Also, the origin of the strong structural
modulation9,26,27 along the b axis, detectable even by x rays, remains
to be clarified. It has been argued that it is associated to the
displacement of the Bi atoms in the (a,c) plane.26,27 However, the role
of the oxygen stoichiometry on this modulation remains to be defined.
Thus, any cationic substitution able to modify the oxygen content in
this Bi phase should shed some light on the above questions.

As a guide to selecting (based on the steric factors only) the kind of
cationic substitution that should have any chance of success for the Bi
phases, we compare, in Fig. 1, the substructure of the 85-K Bi-based
materials with those of the 40- and 90-K phases (by substructure, we
mean the simplest and smallest cell that ignores the modulation
mentioned above). The following substitutions were tried.

**(i)** A remarkable similarity between the Bi and the 90-K structure is
that Ca and Y occupy identical crystallographic sites [sharing edges
with eight CuO₅ pyramids and faces with two Sr (Ba) polyhedral],
suggesting that within the Bi phase Ca may be replaced by Y (as was
already shown 28-30) or by the rare-earth elements as shown herein.

(ii) The crystallographic site of Sr in the Bi phase is similar to that
of Ba in the 90-K or that of La in the 40-K phase (ninefold
coordinated). Therefore, by analogy to the substitution of La by Sr in
the 40-K phase or of Ba by Sr in the 90-K phase,31 we attempted the
replacement of Sr by rare-earth elements in the Bi phase.

(iii) Among these cuprate phases it is believed that superconductivity
resides in the CuO₂ planes and so far substitution for Cu in these
planes, either within the 40- or the 90-K phases, have led to a drastic
decrease in T_(c). Thus, we looked for the same effect within the new Bi
phases.

In this paper we first report separately the chemical substitutions on
either Cu, Sr, or Ca sites, and their effects on the structural,
chemical, and physical properties of the resulting materials. We then
discuss the results as related to the large amount of data already
existing in the literature for the cuprate oxides.

## II Results

### Substitution for Ca

Because of the possible mixing of Sr and Ca in their respective sites,
two series of samples of nominal composition
Bi₄Sr₄Ca_(2 − x)_R_(x)Cu₄O_(16 + y) (referred to as 4:4:2:4 samples) and
Bi₄Sr₇Ca_(3 − x)_R_(x)Cu₄O_(16 + y) (referred to as 4:3:3:4 samples)
with both a magnetic rare earth (Tm) and a nonmagnetic one (Lu) were
prepared and studied. The samples were prepared by first heating a
mixture containing stoichiometric amounts of Ca and Sr carbonates and of
Bi, Cu, and rare-earth oxides. The resulting materials were ground and
reannealed several times prior to being pressed into pellets for
physical measurements. The heating treatments were performed in an
ambient atmosphere and the samples were usually cooled down to room
temperature in approximately 6 h. The annealing temperature required to
obtain single-phase materials with M = Tm or Lu was found to be 40 degC
higher for the 4:4:2:4 than for the 4:3:3:4 series (900 degC instead of
860 degC). Single-phase materials (as determined by x rays) were
obtained only for values of x lower than 2.0 for the 4:3:3:4 series as
well as for the 4:4:2:4 samples. This means that Ca can be fully
replaced in the 4:4:2:4 compositions, whereas it is not the case in the
4:3:3:4 material.

Substitution is then limited to the Ca site only.

The variation of the lattice parameters for the 4:4:2:4 and 4:3:3:4
series as a function of x were identical for both Tm and Lu. Thus, we
show in Fig. 2 the data for the thulium series only. Independent of the
starting nominal compositions, 4:4:2:4 or 4:3:3:4, the lattice
parameters are changing in a similar manner as a function of the
composition. The a axis is going through a minimum, whereas the c axis
and the unit-cell volume (_V_) decrease continuously. The unit-cell
volume is higher for the 4:4:2:4 than for the 4:3:3:4 series, as
expected, since we have a larger ratio of [Sr]/[Ca] and that Sr2+ is
larger than Ca2+. This is consistent with a previous study of the
Bi4Sr3+xCa3-_x_Cu4O_(y) series which shows that V increases with
increasing x.25 Upon increasing the Tm content, the lattice parameters
for both series converge.

High-resolution transmission electron microscopy (HREM) along with
energy dispersive x-ray micro-analysis, shows that Tm has replaced Ca in
the unit cell. One typical image in the [010] zone-axis orientation is
shown in Fig. 3(a). Observation of the crystal in the [100] zone-axis
orientation [Fig. 3(b)] also shows that the incommensurate modulation of
the structure is still present in the phase. The inset in this figure
shows the [100] zone-axis selected-area diffraction (SAD) pattern. This
SAD pattern is similar to the one of an undoped material, suggesting
that the replacement of Ca by Tm (and the consequent introduction of
oxygen for charge balance) does not change the nature of the
incommensurate modulation although it is slightly decreased from 4.7b to
4.3b.

A detailed analysis of the HREM images will be published separately.

In the light of the above result, attempts were made to prepare the
series of compounds Bi4Sr4R2Cu4O_(y), with R being the rare-earth
elements. We found that all the phases do form, but, samples with the
rare-earth end members (La,Pr on one side, Yb and Lu on the other) were
always contaminated by impurity phases as determined by x-ray
diffraction. For the largest rare-earth element single-phase materials
were more easily obtained by using Ca instead of Sr (i.e.,
Bi4Ca4La2Cu4O_(y)). The annealing temperatures required to obtain
single-phase materials are different for each of the rare-earth
elements, with the highest one (960 degC) being for the lightest
rare-earth elements (Pr,La), and the lowest one (900 degC) being for the
heaviest rare-earth elements (Lu,Yb). The temperature range at which the
rare-earth-doped 4:4:2:4 phase forms is narrow (about 60 degC) usually
with a contamination by the Bi2Sr2CuO6 phase at too low or too high
temperatures. The Er-doped 4:4:2:4 phase was the easiest one to form
cleanly, leading to well-crystallized powders as indicated in the x-ray
powder-diffraction pattern in Fig. 4(a). Displayed along with this is
the x-ray

Figure 3: High resolution electron microscopy image (a) in the [010]
zone axis showing the Bi layers and the prominent Tm layers (arrowed).
(b) In the [100] zone axis showing the modulated structure similar to
that,in undoped Bi4Sr4Ca2Cu4O₁₆ samples. Inset shows the [100] selected
area diffraction pattern.

Figure 2: (a),(d) the lattice parameters; (b),(e) cell volume and T;
(c),(f) copper valence and oxygen content are shown for the
Bi4Sr5Ca3−Tm_xCu4O_(16 + y) and Bi8SrCa2−Tm_xCu4O_(16 + y) series. The
dashed lines, joining the experimental points, are just guides for the
reader.

pattern of plateletlike crystals of the same phase grown using Bi2O3, in
excess, as a flux [Fig. 4(b)]. The crystals were pressed onto a glass
slide, and because of the strong preferential orientation only the (001)
planes are observed. Figures 5(a) and 5(b) show the variation of the a
axis and the unit-cell volume for the rare-earth series. The _a_-axis
lattice parameter increases continuously and then saturates for the
largest ions (La,Pr), while V increases continuously throughout the
rare-earth series (i.e., as the size of the rare-earth ion increases).
The monotonic increase suggests that all the rare-earth elements adopt
the valence +3 in these materials. The difficulty in preparing the end
members of the rare-earth series while the phases from Tm to Nd are
easily prepared is reminiscent of similar results found within the
_R_Ba2Cu3O7-_x_ series in which the compounds with La and Pr or Lu and
Yb are difficult to obtain as well. The analogy is not surprising since
in both systems the crystallographic site occupied by the rare-earth
elements is similar. Finally, it is interesting to note that the
Bi-phase doped with Tb can be made while the synthesis of the TbBa2Cu3Oy
(90-K phase) remains unachievable.

There remains in the Bi system a third phase, the Bi2Sr2Ca2Cu3Oy (_n_ =
3) phase, which differs structurally from the n = 2 phase by an extra
CaCuO2 sandwich, but there has been several difficulties in isolating
this phase. We tried to prepare this n = 3 phase with the rare-earth
elements instead of Ca but never succeeded in obtaining traces of this
phase regardless of the preparation temperature and processing.

The substitution of divalent Ca by trivalent rare-earth elements is
expected to either modify the copper valence or to pull into the
structure some oxygen or both, in order to maintain charge neutrality.
The oxygen contents for the 4:4:2:4 and 4:3:3:4 Tm series (determined by
chemical analysis), are shown in Figs. 2(c) and 2(f) along with the Cu
valence. We note a continuous increase in oxygen content from 16.2 to
17.3 per formula unit upon increasing the rare-earth content from 0 to
2. This indicates that for each added rare-earth element, half an oxygen
atom is added to the structure. Within the same composition range, we
note that the Cu valence is constant up to x = 0.5 and then decreases
but still remains greater than 2

Figure 4: X-ray powder-diffraction pattern of the
Bi_Sr_4-Er_Zn_Cu_O_16+_y_. The pattern of a polycrystalline powder is
shown in (a) with the Miller indexes noted above each peak. The x-ray
diffraction pattern is shown also for highly _c_-oriented crystals of
the same phase in (b).

Figure 5: The variation of the unit-cell parameters “_a_” and “_V_” for
the Bi_Sr_4R2Cu_O_16+_y_ series (_R_ = all the rare earth elements) are
shown in (a) and (b), respectively. They are plotted as a function of
their ionic radii taken from Shannon-Prewitt tables, in the coordinate
VI (the only one with a complete set of data).

for x = 2. The Cu valence and then the oxygen content have been measured
for the Bi4Sr4Ca2-_x_K_xCu4O16+_y_ (_x_ = 0.5, 1.0, 1.5, and 2) series
using both thermogravimetry analysis measurements (TGA) under a reducing
atmosphere (Ar-H2 mixture) and chemical techniques. The values for
oxygen content determined by TGA are higher than those obtained from
chemical analysis. For instance, an oxygen content of 17.5 per formula
unit was found by TGA for the Er phase (Fig. 6), while chemical
titration gives only 17.3. However, although quite different, both
results agree to show that the copper valence remains above two upon
rare-earth substitution. The copper and oxygen contents (as determined
chemically) are plotted in Fig. 7(a) for several members of the
rare-earth series. Both the Cu valence and the oxygen content are the
same for all these rare-earth elements. No difference in the oxygen
uptake has been observed for those rare-earth elements that can exhibit
two oxidation states such as Eu or Sm, suggesting that they all
substitute as trivalent ions as also deduced from x-ray data. Attempts
to lower the oxygen content of these rare-earth phases by annealing them
under He or Ar gases at 800 degC, using a thermogravimetric apparatus
(TGA), did not reveal any oxygen loss greater than 0.1

The superconducting critical temperatures were determined both
inductively and resistively and are shown in Fig. 7(b). The variation of
the resistivity as a function of temperature from 4.2 to 300 K is shown
in Fig. 8 for the Tm-doped 4:3:3:4 samples. The superconducting critical
temperature T_(c) remains constant up to x = 0.5 and then decreases
rapidly so that a semiconducting regime is reached by x = 1.5 and
extending up to x = 2. The linear temperature dependence above T_(c)
already observed in most of the superconducting cuprate oxides is still
present here.

Note that for the x = 1 sample the presence of two transitions is
indicated and we ascribe this to the presence of stacking faults, as
discussed in previous work.24 Such an effect was even more pronounced
for the 4:4:2:4 series because of the higher temperatures required for
the introduction of the rare-earth element into the compound. The values
of T_(c) (onsets) determined inductively for the members of the 4:3:3:4
and 4:4:2:4 Tm series are shown in Figs. 2(b) and 2(e). The similarity
of this figure to that displaying the Cu valence changes [Figs. 2(c) and
2(f)] is striking, supporting the general belief that T_(c) is related
to the amount of Cu iii. However, the x = 2 compound is a

Figure 6: TGA traces showing the weight loss of the Bi4Sr4Er2Cu4O7,
Bi2NdCaCuO7, and Bi2Sr2CoO7 when heated up to 850 °C at a rate of 10
°C/min under a reducing Ar/H2 mixture.

Figure 7: The resistivity vs temperature from below T_(c) to room
temperature for several members of the Bi4Sr5Ca3−_x_Tm_x_Cu4O16+_y_
series.

semiconductor even with a copper valence greater than 2, suggesting that
the correlation between T_(c) and Cu valence is not a general rule
(i.e., the presence of Cu iii does not imply superconductivity) or that
there is a threshold for the amount of Cu iii necessary to obtain a
metallic behavior. In Fig. 7 the depression of T_(c) is shown as a
function of x for several rare-earth-doped samples. T_(c) is depressed
in a similar fashion independent of whether the rare-earth element is
magnetic (Er,Tm,Ho), weakly magnetic (Eu), or nonmagnetic (Lu). The data
for R =Lu has not been included in this plot for reason of clarity,
since they were identical to those of thulium (see Fig. 2).

Finally, as a direct proof of the oxidation state of the rare-earth ion
in these Bi materials, magnetization measurements were performed from
400 K down to 4.2 K in a field of 10 kG using a superconducting quantum
interference device (SQUID) magnetometer. The results of these
measurements are shown in Fig. 9 where 1/_kh__g_ vs T is plotted for
several members of the rare-earth series. The linear variation of
1/_kh__g_ vs T indicates that _kh__g_ changes with temperature in a
Curie-Weiss manner. A fit of the data to a Curie-Weiss law of the
general formula χ_(g) = C_(g)/(T + Θ_(p)) + χ₀ (where C_(g), _th__p_,
and _kh_0 are the Curie constant, the paramagnetic Curie temperature,
and the temperature-independent susceptibility, respectively) gives
effective magnetic moments for the rare-earth ions close to that
expected for free trivalent ions (Table 1). The values of _th__p_
deduced from the above fit are reported in Table 1 and compared with
_th__p_ values obtained for the 1:2:3 materials32 (inset, Fig. 9). From
this similarity, and analogous to the GdBa2Cu3O7-_x_ phase, one might
expect the Gd-doped Bi phase to display magnetic ordering at low
temperatures. The magnetic measurements were extended down to 1.7 K on
several Gd samples processed differently (i.e., at various annealing
tempertures or quenching rates). However, no evidence for magnetic
ordering was observed.

For the Nd and Pr-doped samples, the fits of the temperature-dependent
susceptibility to a Curie-Weiss law is poorer than those obtained with
the other rare-earth elements over the same range of temperature, as
indicated by the larger values of the root-mean-square deviation given
in Table 1. This is due to the slight curvature of 1/_kh_ curves
observed for the Nd and Pr samples. Such a deviation from a Curie-Weiss
law may result from a crystal

Figure 8: Effect of the rare-earth substitution on the (a) Cu valence
and (b) T_(c) for several members of the BiSr_n_R_2CuO_Y_ series.

Figure 9: Magnetization of several members of the Bi_n_Sr_n_R_2CuO_Y_
series measured in a field of 10 kG over the range of temperature
1.7−400 K. The inverse susceptibility temperature dependence is shown.
The left scale is for the Nd and Pr samples. The inset compares the
_θ__p_ values for the rare-earth doped _R_Ba2Cu3O_Y_ and
Bi_n_Sr_n_R_2CuO_Y_ materials.

field effect at the Nd or Pr site, large enough to lift the degeneracy
of the ground state.

Figure 10 displays the susceptibility temperature dependence for both
Eu- and Sm-doped Bi samples. Neither follows a Curie-Weiss law as
observed for the Gd-doped Bi sample. For the Eu phase the susceptibility
increases slightly with decreasing temperature, levels off around 100 K,
and increases in a Curie-Weiss manner for temperatures below 50 K. The
low-temperature part, most likely due to magnetic impurities, can be
corrected as follows: Below 50 K the data were fitted to a Curie-Weiss
law so that C_(g) and Θ_(p) can be defined. Then over the
temperature-range investigated, we assumed C_(g) and Θ_(p) to remain
constant and we plotted χ = χ_(g) − C/(T + Θ_(p)) to produce the solid
curve in Fig. 10. The corrected susceptibility temperature dependence
for the Eu-doped Bi sample is similar to that calculated for the van
Vleck ion Eu+3 (_J_ = 0), assuming an energy separation of 420 K between
the ground state and the first excited state. For the Sm-doped sample
the susceptibility temperature dependence does not change in a
Curie-Weiss manner, but it is in fair agreement with that expected for
the van Vleck ion Sm+3 (_J_ = $\frac{3}{2}$) assuming 550 K as
separation between the ground state and the first excited state. Thus,
magnetic data unambiguously indicate that Eu and Sm are trivalent as
already suggested from our x-ray results.

### Substitution of Sr by R

Samples of general formula Bi4Sr3-_x_La_x_Ca3Cu4O16+_y_ were prepared at
840 degC. The x-ray powder-diffraction patterns of the resulting
materials indicate that they are multiphase, containing Bragg peaks
reminiscent of the n = 1 Bi-phase and peaks of an unknown phase. The
Bragg peaks of the n = 1 phase, compared to those of the unknown phase,
increased their intensity with x and were not exactly located at the
same positions as those of the pure Bi2Sr2CuO3 phase, suggesting that La
may also substitute for Sr in the Bi2Sr2CuO3 (2:2:0:1) phase. We thus
attempted to prepare the Bi2_R_CaCuO3 series and succeeded in making
single-phase material with R = La, Pr, and Nd at temperatures ranging
from 840 to 890 degC, in agreement with a previous report by J. Darriet
_et al._[30] with R = La. With Sm, the samples were always multiphase,
with, however, the n = 1 phase as the major phase. For the heaviest
rare-earth elements, the Bi2_R_CaCuO6+_y_

c c c c c c c c c & a & c & V & Θ_(p) & $\mu_{\rm eff}$ &
$\mu_{\rm eff}$ & & & Cu iii
R & (Å) & (Å) & (Å³) & (K) & (theory) & (expt) & σ & (per unit cell)
La & 3.8754 & 30.592 & 459.4 & * & * & * & * & *
Pr & 3.8773 & 30.366 & 456.5 & 16 & 3.55 & 2.96 & 0.03 & 0.23
Nd & 3.8723 & 30.287 & 454.2 & 30 & 3.55 & 2.97 & 0.04 & 0.15
Sm & 3.8673 & 30.296 & 453.1 & _vV_ & _vV_ & _vV_ & _vV_ & 0.20
Eu & 3.8630 & 30.138 & 449.7 & _vV_ & _vV_ & _vV_ & _vV_ & 0.15
Gd & 3.8550 & 30.248 & 449.2 & 2 & 7.94 & 7.84 & 0.003 & 0.30
Dy & 2.8527 & 30.162 & 447.7 & 8 & 10.65 & 10.23 & 0.003 & 0.25
Y & 3.8530 & 30.152 & 447.6 & * & 0 & 0.5/Cu & * & 0.22
Tb & 3.8496 & 30.232 & 448.0 & 13 & 7.59 & 7.66 & 0.002 & *
Ho & 3.8432 & 30.025 & 443.5 & 13 & 10.61 & 10.23 & 0.002 & 0.22
Er & 3.8412 & 30.156 & 444.9 & 14 & 9.58 & 9.39 & 0.001 & 0.24
Tm & 3.8241 & 30.173 & 441.2 & 32 & 7.56 & 7.66 & 0.002 & 0.26
Yb & 3.8496 & 30.474 & 451.6 & * & * & * & * & *
Lu & 3.8116 & 30.316 & 440.4 & * & * & * & * & *

Table 1: Lattice parameters for the BiSr_R_2CuO3 series along with the
oxygen content (as determined by chemical analysis). Also reported are
the parameters obtained from a fit to a Curie-Weiss law. Shown are the
paramagnetic Curie temperature (Θ_(p)), the effective magnetic moment
per M atom ($\mu_{\rm eff}$), and the root-mean-square deviation (rms
deviation σ) from the Curie-Weiss law, in percent. Magnetic measurements
were collected at a field of 10 kG and the Curie-Weiss fit was performed
over the temperature range 50–400 K. The letters _vV_ refer to a van
Vleck ion and the (*) indicate that the measurements have not been
performed because of material problems.

Figure 10: Magnetic susceptibility, measured in 10 kG, as a function of
temperature for Bi4Sr_R_2CuO3 compounds with R = Sm and Eu. The observed
magnetic susceptibility (open circles) are shown for both phases. The
full circle shows the susceptibility for Eu when the Curie contribution
has been subtracted out. The solid lines are those expected for free
Eu3+ (_J_ = 0) and Sm3+ (_J_ = $\frac{5}{2}$) van Vleck ions.

phase did not form. The temperature range at which the phase forms is
very narrow, so that annealing temperatures differed from sample to
sample, again with the highest temperature (i.e., 920degC) for the
lightest rare earth. The crystal data are summarized in Table 2. As
usually observed, the unit-cell volume increases with increasing ionic
radius of the rare earth.

The replacement of two divalent Sr ions by one divalent Ca and one
trivalent R modifies the charge balance so that upon substitution,
additional oxygen is needed for the structure. Analysis of the resulting
material for oxygen either by TGA measurements (Fig. 6), or by chemical
titration indeed indicates that upon substitution the oxygen content
rises from 6 to 6.5 so that for each added R half an oxygen atom is
again added to the structure. Resistivity measurements have shown that
the fully substituted compounds are semiconducting even though they
contain a small amount of Cu III, as determined by chemical analysis.

Within the Bi2Sr2CuO2 phase, two Sr atoms can be replaced by one Ca and
one R ion, both of smaller ionic radius than Sr. It might be
coincidental but it is exactly when the ionic radius of the rare earth
becomes equal to that of Ca or smaller that the phase cannot be formed,
stressing again the importance of the steric factors.

### Substitution within the CuO2 planes

Our attempts to prepare a pure 85-K phase with Cu substituted or
partially substituted by M = Fe, Co, Al, Ni failed, independent of
annealing time and temperature, cooling rates and starting composition
(4:4:2:4 or 4:3:3:4). With Al, Ni, and Zn, the (2:2:0:1) phase was
present as a trace. A general remark is that no changes in the position
of the Bragg peaks of the 85-K phase was observed, suggesting that the
substitution of Cu by 3d metals and Al does not occur in these materials
in contrast to the 40- or 90-K phases. However, in the case of Fe and Co
substitutions only, the x-ray pattern contained an increasing amount of
the "Bi2Sr2CuO2," peaks with increasing cation substitution. Those Bragg
peaks corresponding to the n = 1 phase were shifted with respect to
those of pure Bi2Sr2CuO6, suggesting the ability to substitute Cu by Co
or Fe within this phase. We indeed succeeded in preparing compounds of
general formula Bi2Sr2Cu1-_xMx_O2 with M = Fe up to 0.5 and Co up to x =
1, while we failed with Zn, Al, and Ni.

The crystal data together with the copper valence and oxygen content (as
determined chemically and by TGA) are reported in Table 2. The
unsubstituted 2:2:0:1 is metallic and superconducts at 10 K. The
replacement of Cu by Co or Fe induces an uptake of oxygen atoms (0.5
atom for each added Co) suggesting that the valence state of Co is + 3.
In order to determine the oxidation state of Co in this compound, XPS
measurements were also performed. From the position of the Co 2p3/2 peak
located at 781.0 eV it was shown that Co is mostly in the + 3 state. The
presence of a satellite at 787.1 eV can be ascribed to the high-spin
configuration as observed in other Co oxides.33 Similar measurements
with the Co-doped 90-K phase were not possible because of the
overlapping of peaks related to Ba and Co.

The magnetic behavior for these Fe-or Co-doped materials is shown in
Fig. 11. A prominent feature is the presence of an antiferromagnetic
ordering at 140 K for the fully Co-doped sample (Fig. 11). By lowering
the cobalt concentration to x = 0.5, evidence for antiferromagnetic
ordering vanishes. No cusp is observed anymore in the _kh_ vs T curve at
low temperature but only a trend of the susceptibility to saturate. The
fit to a Curie-Weiss law of the high-temperature part of the curve
(_T_ > 200 K) gave the parameters Θ_(p) = + 3 K, $\mu_{\rm eff}$ =
3.7μ_(B) per Co atom. This magnetic moment is of the same order as that
obtained for Co when substituted for Cu in the YBa2Cu3-_x_Co2O7 phase
(3.5μ_(B) per Co) and for which it has been shown that Co is trivalent.
This is consistent with the XPS interpretation. For the iron sample of
intermediate composition (Bi2Sr2Cu0.5Fe0.5O6.25), we also observe a
leveling off of the susceptibility at low temperature, same as for the
Co0.5 doped sample, but no satisfactory Curie-Weiss fit could be
obtained at higher temperature. The relationship between structural,
magnetic, and electrical properties for these samples will be described
elsewhere.

At this point an interesting comparison can be made with the 90-K system
for which it has been shown that Cu can be substituted by 3d metals,
with the trivalent ones (Co, Al, and Fe) going onto the chains (where
they end up octahedrally coordinated) and the divalent ones replacing Cu
within the planes. But the divalent ions cannot be substituted for Cu in
the 2:2:0:1 Bi phase whereas Co and Fe can. The main reason for the
inability to substitute Cu and Fe for Cu within the 4:4:2:4 phase, while
this substitution succeeds in the 2:2:0:1 phase may arise from the fact
that Cu is twofold coordinated in the first one while it is sixfold
coordinated in the second one. This is consistent with our previous
findings on the 90-K material that Co was not going on the CuO2 planes
(Cu fivefold coordinat

  ---------- --------------------- -------------- ------------------- ----------------------
                                    Bi2_R_CaCuO2                      
      R            A = $\AA$         C = $\AA$         V = $\AA$       Oxygen content (_y_)
      Y              5.382             24.51             710.2                 6.15
      La            5.4068             23.77             695.0                 6.6
      Pr             5.406             23.65             691.4                 6.65
      Nd             5.397             23.67             689.5                 6.55
      Sm             5.383             23.66             685.8                  *
   Eu to Lu   Phase does not form                          *          
                                                   Bi2Sr2Cu1−_xMx_O2  
    M = Co                                                            
   x = 0.5           5.401             24.15             705.4                 6.26
    x = 1            5.445             23.55             698.5                 6.53
    M = Fe                                                            
   x = 0.5           5.420             23.92            703.11                 6.27
    x = 1                            Multiphase            *          
  ---------- --------------------- -------------- ------------------- ----------------------

Table 2: The crystal data along with the oxygen content determined by
TGA measurements is reported for the Bi2_R_CaCuO2 and the
Bi2Sr2Cu1−_xMx_O2 (_M_ = Co,Fe). The (*) indicates that measurements
were not performed.

ed) but on the chains dragging extra oxygen atoms to become sixfold
coordinated. However, following the same line of reasoning, the Cu
coordination within the CuO₂ plane of the Y-based superconductor is
similar to the 85-K Bi-based oxide and one should expect the Ni
substitution to work for the Bi phase, contrary to what we observe
experimentally.

## III Discussion

### 4:4:2:4 composition

Some doubts still persisted about the ideal structural 4:4:2:4
composition deduced from single-crystal x-ray studies on the 85-K
Bi-phase (_n_ = 2) since, for instance, the existence of a solid
solution implies that some of the Ca ions occupy the Sr sites (denoted
as _S_). A recent synthesis and crystal-structure study of the
Ca_(0.85)Sr_(0.15)CuO₂ also indicates that Sr in a small amount, may
also occupy the C sites.[34] Thus, we have the possibility of Sr
substitution on the C sites and vice versa. The study of the
Bi₄Sr₃Ca_(3 − x)_(K)Ca₀I_(6 + y) system has shown that Ca can be
substituted by Tm whereas Sr cannot be substituted at all by a R for
(Ca+_R_)/2 as for the 2:2:0:1 phase]. Moreover the maximum substitution
for calcium is x = 2 which is the number of C sites. This cationic
substitution supports the ideal structural composition Bi₄_S_4C2Cu₄O₁₆
with the majority of the C sites occupied by Ca, while the S site can
actually be a mixture of Sr and Ca.

### Oxygen stoichiometry

The substitution of Ca by a R within the
Bi₄Sr₄Ca_(2 − x)_(R)_(x)Cu₀I_(6 + y/2 + y) system theoretically induces
the uptake of half an oxygen atom per substituted Ca if the Cu valence
is assumed to be constant. This is true when the amount of the
substitution is less than x = 1. Beyond this value, the oxygen uptake
does not follow the substitution. This is accommodated by a decrease in
the formal Cu valence and a vanishing of the superconducting properties.
The location of the extra oxygen in the structure remains the key
question. By analogy to the YBa₂Cu₃O₇ phase, it is unlikely that oxygen
goes within the R planes. However, within the 85-K Bi structure, due to
the quite long spacing between the Bi-O layers, there are sites that can
geometrically accommodate as many as two extra oxygen atoms per formula
unit.[8] There is also the possibility of the existence of BiO_(1 + x)
layers (i.e., extra oxygen atoms within the layers). Single-crystal
x-ray studies and more importantly, neutron-diffraction measurements,
should succeed in locating within the structure the 1.5 extra oxygen
atoms per formula unit in the _R_-doped materials.

### Modulation

HREM studies have shown that the incommensurate modulation of the
structure is still present in the Tm-substituted samples. The
propagation vector is slightly smaller (4.3_b_) than in the undoped
material (4.7_b_). Since the oxygen stoichiometry differs by 1 between
these two samples, the presence of this modulation in both samples
indicates that the modulation does not correlate strongly with oxygen
defects. This confirms previous work associating the modulation with Bi
atoms moving within and out of their planes.[26, 27] As shown by Gao _et
al._,[27] every 4.7 (i.e.,  5) cell unit there are 2 Bi atoms moving
closer together so that the spacing between the Bi layers is not uniform
but modulated with narrowed and enlarged sections (i.e., pockets, see
Fig. 2 of Ref. [27]). By adding extra oxygen atoms in these vacant sites
between the Bi planes one forms "Aurevellius-type" phase blocks which
coexist with the NaCl-type blocks of these Bi-O layers.

Figure 11: The observed susceptibility temperature dependence is shown
for members of the Bi₂Sr₂Cu_(1 − x)M_(x)O_(y) series. When M = Co, the
data are shown for the compositions x = 0.5 and 1 and for when M = Fe
for x = 0.5. The inset shows the effect of the applied magnetic field on
the magnetic transition.

The formation of an Aurevellius block (i.e., short Bi-O bonds) might
imply the formation of Bi3+. But within the enlargement zones created by
the modulation, Bi-O bonds of reasonable length can be formed so that
they are consistent with Bi remaining +3. This is consistent with XPS
studies on the Er substituted (_x_ = 2) phase that does not show any
Bi3+.

Since the modulation repeats approximately every 5 Bi atoms, enlarging 3
Bi-O bonds, only $\frac{3}{4}$ to $\frac{3}{2}$ (roughly) of the two
sites (i.e., 0.8 to 1.2 site per 4:4:2:4 formula unit) available per
unit cell will accommodate an extra oxygen. This may explain why at low
substitutions each rare-earth element may drag in half an extra oxygen
while the oxygen uptake slows down at higher substitutions.

A similar modulation exists for the 2:2:0:1 phase. Substitutions in this
compound have shown that only one La (and 0.5 oxygen atoms) can be
inserted. Attempts to introduce 2 La (and 1 oxygen atom) fails. Since La
has an ionic radius similar to Sr, steric factors cannot account for
such a failure. Similar to the 2:2:2:3 phase the replacement of Ca by R
will also introduce one oxygen. In both cases the rare-earth
substitution will require the uptake of one oxygen but the structure can
only accommodate 0.5. Thus, the compound does not form. This
interpretation is at least consistent with the experimental
observations.

### Cu valence

Similar to the La2-_x_SrxCuO4 system and other systems, we find that
changes in T_(c) are correlated to changes in Cu iii (i.e., hole
concentration). However, in the nonsuperconducting regime there is still
some Cu iii. The Bi2_R_CaCuO6 phases reported herein contain around 0.1
Cu iii per formula unit. However, they are semiconducting. This
indicates that just the presence of Cu iii does not systematically imply
superconducting behavior.

An interesting comparison can be made with the Y1-_x_R_xBa2Cu3O_y system
where upon increasing the rare-earth content (_x_), T_(c) does not
change. In both phases the rare-earth atoms occupy identical sites, but
the main difference resides in the fact that for the Bi phase the
addition of extra oxygen is required to keep the Cu-valence constant.
These substitutions do not affect T_(c) as long as the Cu valence
remains constant. Beyond a limit, where oxygen uptake is insufficient to
compensate, the rare-earth substitution leads to a change in the number
of holes while for the 90-K phase the amount of oxygen (i.e., the number
of holes or Cu iii) does remain constant through the range of
substitution. This is further indication that among these cuprate
oxides, the _T__c_’s are extremely sensitive to chemical substitutions
affecting the hole concentration. Similar to the rare-earth-doped 90-K
series, we find for the rare-earth-Bi phases that T_(c) is independent
of whether the substituted rare-earth element is magnetic or
nonmagnetic.

### Magnetic properties

We succeeded in synthesizing a semiconducting parent compound of the
85-K Bi phase. Thus analogous to the 40- or 90-K phase one would expect
these materials to show evidence for antiferromagnetic ordering
associated with the Cu ions. But, the detection of this ordering by
magnetic measurements might be hindered by the large magnetic moments of
the rare-earth elements, with the exception of Eu and Sm samples, for
which the susceptibility is small (La and Lu were excluded because the
samples were multiphase). However, neither the Eu nor Sm sample shows
detectable anomalies in the susceptibility up to 400 K, indicating that
there is no long-range magnetic ordering transition in these compounds
over this temperature range. Neutron experiments have been done on the
Bi4Sr4Y2Cu4O_y_ sample and no magnetic reflections corresponding to
magnetic ordering have been detected.35 This result agrees with our
magnetic data, but is in contrast with muon-spin-resonance studies 36
which show the existence of magnetism in semiconducting Bi4Sr4Y2Cu4O_y_
compound for temperatures lower than 300 K. It is also worthwhile to
mention that by muon-spin resonance, the coexistence of magnetism and
superconductivity has been found within the Co-doped YBa2Cu3-_x_Co_xO_y_
series (0 < x < 0.2), 36 but neutron-diffraction studies failed to
confirm this point. 37 Muon-spin resonance is sensitive to local
magnetic interactions whereas neutrons are sensitive to long-range
magnetic order. Thus sample inhomogeneities might be the origin of these
observed differences. Thus the existence of antiferromagnetism within
the semiconducting parent Bi2Sr2_R_Cu2O_y_ phase still remains an
important dilemma.

## IV Summary

We have shown that the cationic substitution within the Bi system has
led to new compounds such as Bi4Sr4R2Cu4O_y_, Bi2_R_CaCuO_y_, or
Bi2Sr2Cu1-_x_M_x_O_y_. From structural and physical property studies we
presented evidence that the 4:4:2:4 phase is indeed the structural
composition of the 85-K Bi phase and showed that its structural
modulation is not related to the oxygen content. We found that the
superconducting properties of the substituted 85-K material are
independent of the dopant whether it is magnetic or nonmagnetic, but
these properties are strongly affected by changes in the hole
concentration induced by the amount of doping. Like the Cu-O chains for
the 90-K material, the double Bi-O layer acts as oxygen reservoirs for
the Bi phases. Any modification of this double Bi layer (through uptake
of oxygen) affects the hole concentration and thereby drastically
affects T_(c). There are still unanswered questions, such as whether
antiferromagnetism exists at temperatures higher than 400 K for the
semiconducting Bi4Sr4R2Cu4O_y_ phase and where the extra oxygens are
located in the structure (within or without the BiO layers). Further
work presently in progress should answer these questions.

###### Acknowledgements.

We wish to thank B. G. Bagley, B. Chevalier, J. Darriet, P. L. Key, Y.
LePage, P. Miceli, J. M. Rowell, G. Thomas, and J. H. Wernick for
helpful discussions.

* [19] J. M. Tarascon, L. H. Greene, W. R. McKinnon, G. W. Hull, and T.
H. Geballe, Science **235**, 1373 (1987). * [20] M. W. Shafer, T.
Penney, and B. L. Olson, Phys. Rev. B **36**, 4047 (1987). * [21] J. B.
Torrance, Y. Tobura, A. J. Nazzal, A. Bezinge, T. C. Huang, and S. S. P.
Parkin, Phys. Rev. Lett. **61**, 1127 (1988). * [22] N. P. Ong, Z. Z.
Wang, J. Clayhold, J. M. Tarascon, L. H. Greene, and W. R. McKinnon,
Phys. Rev. B **35**, 8807 (1987). * [23] P. K. Gallagher, H. M. O’Bryan,
S. A. Sunshine, and D. W. Murphy, Mater. Res. Bull. **22**, 995
(1987). * [24] J. D. Jorgensen, M. A. Beno, D. G. Hinks, L. Soderholm,
K. J. Volin, R. L. Hitterman, J. D. Grace, I. K. Schuller, C. U. Segre,
K. Zhang, and M. S. Kleefish, Phys. Rev. B **36**, 3608 (1987). * [25]
H. Maeda, Y. Tanaka, M. Fuksutumi, and T. Asano, Jpn. J. Appl. Phys.
**27**, L209 (1988). * [26] J. M. Tarascon, Y. LePage, P. Barboux, B. G.
Bagley, L. H. Greene, W. R. McKinnon, G. W. Hull, M. Giroud, and D. M.
Hwang, Phys. Rev. B **37**, 9382 (1988). * [27] S. Sunshine, T.
Siegrist, L. F. Schneemeyer, D. W. Murphy, R. J. Cava, R. B. van Dover,
R. M. Fleming, S. H. Glarum, S. Nakahara, R. Farrow, J. J. Krajewski, S.
M. Zahurak, J. V. Waszczak, J. H. Marshall, P. Marsh, L. W. Rupp, Jr.,
and W. F. Peck, Phys. Rev. B **38**, 893 (1988). * [28] M. A.
Subramanian, C. C. Torardi, J. C. Calabrese, J. Gopalakrishnan, K. J.
Morissey, T. R. Askew, R. B. Flippen, U. Chowdry, and A. W. Sleight,
Science **239**, 1015 (1988). * [29] Z. Sheng and A. M. Hermann, Nature
**332**, 55 (1988); **332**, 138 (1988). * [30] D. Vaknin, S. K. Sinha,
D. E. Moncton, D. C. Johnston, J. Newman, C. R. Safinya, and H. E. King,
Jr., Phys. Rev. Lett. **58**, 2802 (1987). * [31] J. M. Tranquada, D. E.
Cox, W. Kunnmann, H. Moudden, G. Shirane, M. Suenaga, P. Zolliker, D.
Vaknin, S. K. Sinha, M. S. Alvarez, A. J. Jacobson, and D. C. Johnston,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **60**, 156 (1988). * [32] P. W. Anderson, G. Baskaran,
Z. Zou, and T. Hsu, Phys. Rev. Lett. **58**, 2790 (1987). * [33] V. J.
Emery, Phys. Rev. Lett. **58**, 2794 (1987). * [34] J. E. Hirsch, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **59**, 228 (1987). * [35] J. M. Tarascon, L. H. Greene, P.
Barboux, W. R. McKinnon, G. W. Hull, T. P. Orlando, K. A. Delin, S.
Foner, and E. J. McNiff, Phys. Rev. B **36**, 8393 (1987). * [36] Y.
Maeno, T. Tomita, M. Kyogoku, S. Awaji, Y. A. Oki, K. Oshino, A. A.
Minami, and T. Fujita, Nature **328**, 512 (1987). * [37] G. Xiao, F. H.
Streitz, A. Gavrin, Y. W. Du, and C. L. Chien, Phys. Rev. B **35**, 8782
(1987). * [38] J. M. Tarascon, P. Barboux, P. F. Miceli, L. H. Greene,
and G. W. Hull, Phys. Rev. B **37**, 7458 (1988). * [39] C. Michel, M.
Hervieu, M. M. Borel, A. Grandin, F. Deslandes, J. Provost, and B.
Raveau, Z. Phys. B **68**, 421 (1987). * [40] C. C. Torardi, M. A.
Subramanian, J. C. Calabrese, J. Gopalakrishnan, K. J. Morissey, T. R.
Askew, R. B. Flippen, U. Chowdry, and A. W. Sleight, Phys. Rev. B
**38**, 225 (1988). * [41] J. M. Tarascon, Y. LePage, L. H. Greene, B.
G. Bagley, P. Barboux, D. M. Hwang, G. W. Hull, W. R. McKinnon, and M.
Giroud, Phys. Rev. B **38**, 2504 (1988). * [42] J. M. Tarascon, W. R.
McKinnon, P. Barboux, D. M. Hwang, B. G. Bagley, L. H. Greene, G. W.
Hull, Y. LePage, N. Stoffel, and M. Giroud, Phys. Rev. B **38**, 8885
(1988). * [43] G. S. Gruder, E. M. Gyorgy, P. K. Gallagher, H. M.
O’Bryan, D. W. Johnson, S. Sunshine, S. M. Zahurak, S. Jin, and R. C.
Sherwood, Phys. Rev. B **38**, 757 (1988). * [44] E. A. Hewatt, P.
Bordet, J. J. Caponi, C. Chaillot, J. L. Hodeau, and M. Marezio, Physica
C **153-155**, 619 (1988). * [45] Y. Gao, P. Lee, P. Coppens, M. A.
Subramanian, and A. W. Sleight, Science **241**, 954 (1988). * [46] A.
Manthiram and J. B. Goodenough, Appl. Phys. Lett. **53**, 420 (1988). *
[47] B. Chevalier, B. Lepine, A. LeLirzin, J. Darriet, J. Etourneau, and
J. M. Tarascon, Mat. Sci. Eng. (to be published). * [48] J. Darriet, B.
Lepine, A. LeLirzin, B. Chevalier, and J. Etourneau (unpublished). *
[49] J. M. Tarascon, L. H. Greene, B. G. Bagley, W. R. McKinnon, P.
Barboux, and G. W. Hull, in _Novel Superconductivity_, edited by S. A.
Wolf and V. Z. Kresin (Plenum, New York, 1987), p. 705. * [50] J. M.
Tarascon, W. R. McKinnon, L. H. Greene, G. W. Hull, and E. M. Vogel,
Phys. Rev. B **36**, 226 (1987). * [51] C. N. R. Rao, D. D. Sarma, S.
Vasudevan, and M. S. Hegde, Proc. R. Soc. London, Ser. A **367**, 239
(1979). * [52] T. Siegrist, S. M. Zahurak, D. W. Murphy, and B. S. Roth,
Nature (London) **337**, 231 (1988). * [53] P. F. Miceli _et al._
(unpublished). * [54] Y. J. Uemera, B. J. Sternlieb, D. E. Cox, V. J.
Emery, A. Moodenbaugh, and M. Suenaga, J. Phys. (Paris) (to be
published). * [55] P. F. Miceli, J. M. Tarascon, L. H. Greene, P.
Barboux, M. Giroud, D. A. Neumann, J. J. Rhyne, L. F. Schneemeyer, and
J. V. Waszczak, Phys. Rev. B **38**, 9209 (1988).

Figure 3: High resolution electron microscopy image (a) in the [010]
zone axis showing the Bi layers and the prominent Tm layers (arrowed).
(b) In the [100] zone axis showing the modulated structure similar to
that in undoped Bi₄Sr₄Ca₂Cu₄O₁₆ samples. Inset shows the [100] selected
area diffraction pattern.
