Two distinct superconducting phases and pressure-induced crossover from
type-II to type-I superconductivity in the spin-orbit-coupled
superconductors BaBi₃ and SrBi₃

Bosen Wang

Corresponding author: bswang@iphy.ac.cn Beijing National Laboratory for
Condensed Matter Physics and Institute of Physics, Chinese Academy of
Sciences, Beijing 100190, China Institute for Solid State Physics,
University of Tokyo, Kashiwanoha 5-1-5, Kashiwa, Chiba 277-8581, Japan
Songshan Lake Materials Laboratory, Dongguan, Guangdong 523808, China

Xuan Luo

Key Laboratory of Materials Physics, Institute of Solid State Physics,
Chinese Academy of Sciences, Hefei 230031, China High Magnetic Field
Laboratory, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Hefei 230031, China
Collaborative Innovation Center of Advanced Microstructures,Nanjing
University, Nanjing 210093, China

Kento Ishigaki

Institute for Solid State Physics, University of Tokyo, Kashiwanoha
5-1-5, Kashiwa, Chiba 277-8581, Japan

Kazuyuki Matsubayashi

Institute for Solid State Physics, University of Tokyo, Kashiwanoha
5-1-5, Kashiwa, Chiba 277-8581, Japan

Jinguang Cheng

B.W. and X.L. contributed equally to this work. Beijing National
Laboratory for Condensed Matter Physics and Institute of Physics,
Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100190, China Institute for Solid
State Physics, University of Tokyo, Kashiwanoha 5-1-5, Kashiwa, Chiba
277-8581, Japan

Yuping Sun

Key Laboratory of Materials Physics, Institute of Solid State Physics,
Chinese Academy of Sciences, Hefei 230031, China High Magnetic Field
Laboratory, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Hefei 230031, China
Collaborative Innovation Center of Advanced Microstructures,Nanjing
University, Nanjing 210093, China

Yoshiya Uwatoko

Institute for Solid State Physics, University of Tokyo, Kashiwanoha
5-1-5, Kashiwa, Chiba 277-8581, Japan

###### Abstract

We report two distinct superconducting states with different crystal
structures and a crossover from a type-II to a type-I superconductor
(SC) in (Ba, Sr)Bi₃. The superconducting parameters are revealed to
classify two SCs: BaBi₃ is in the weak-coupling limit on the basis of
$\Delta C/\gamma_{\rm g}T_{\rm c}\sim 0.67$ and
$2\Delta/k_{\rm B}T_{\rm c}\sim 3.28$ while SrBi₃ is a strong-coupling
SC with $\Delta C/\gamma_{\rm g}T_{\rm c}\sim 2.41$ and
$2\Delta/k_{\rm B}T_{\rm c}\sim 6.09$. A large Kadowaki-Woods ratio
($R_{\rm KW}\sim 3.53a_{0}$) suggests an enhanced electron-electron
scattering in BaBi₃. With increasing the pressure, the $T_{\rm c}$ of
BaBi₃ decreases linearly at first, and then shows an abrupt increase up
to 6.2 K at 0.88 GPa. This behavior can be attributed to a
pressure-induced structural transition and the resulting variations of
spin-orbit coupling and Fermi structures. $T_{\rm c}$ of SrBi₃ is
suppressed monotonously by pressure. The Ginzburg-Landau parameter
$\kappa_{\rm GL}$ of BaBi₃ decreases from 10.35 at ambient pressure (AP)
to 0.86 at 1.75 GPa, and then tends to saturation. $\kappa_{\rm GL}$ of
SrBi₃ decreases from 0.76 at AP to 1/$\sqrt{2}$ at 1.20 GPa, which
manifests pressured-induced crossover from a type-II to a type-I SC.
Possible physical mechanisms are proposed.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.98.220506

Superconductivity is one of macroscopic quantum phenomena and has been
explored for 100 years. The Ginzburg-Landau (GL) parameter κ = λ/ξ (λ is
the magnetic penetration depth, ξ is the coherence length) is one of the
fundamental parameters. It divides superconductors (SCs) into two
classes: type I ($\kappa<\frac{1}{\sqrt{2}}$) and type II
($\kappa>\frac{1}{\sqrt{2}}$) with different interface energies: ξ is
smaller than λ in type-II SCs with negative interface energy and strong
flux pinning. Such behavior is not possible in a type-I SC because it
cannot be penetrated by the external magnetic fields [1,2]. Thus, the
crossover from a type-II to a type-I SC is unusual because the magnetic
fluxes can be expelled and/or made to reappear by the stimuli. As one
example, ErRh₃B₄ undergoes a reentrant type-I superconducting state from
a type-II one at ∼2.4 K [3]. TaN possesses strong anisotropic
superconductivity and a crossover from a type-I to a type-II SC can be
induced by changing the crystal azimuth in magnetic fields [4].
Moreover, high impurities cause more pinning, and a type-I SC behaves as
a type-II SC in many cases [5,6]. Theoretical calculations also indicate
that the thermally induced crossover from a type-I to a type-II SC can
be originated from the interaction of magnetic vortices [7]. However,
the underlying mechanism is still in dispute and not universal.

Bismuth-based materials have been extensively studied due to significant
spin-orbit coupling (SOC) and unconventional superconducting pairings
[8,9]. BaBi₃ crystallizes in the tetragonal phase (P4/mmn) with
corner-sharing Bi₆ octahedrons [10,11]. At low temperature, it enters
into the superconducting state at $T_{\rm c}\sim 6$ K at ambient
pressure (AP). Theoretical calculations have revealed that it possesses
complicated Fermi surfaces and the density of state at the Fermi level
is dominated by Bi p orbitals. The enhanced SOC is pivotal to
superconducting pairings by softening phonon modes and strengthening the
electron-phonon coupling [10,11]. For the isoelectron substituted
material SrBi₃, $T_{\rm c}$ reduces to ∼5.6 K with cubic symmetry
[12,13]. With increasing substitution in the Ba site, cubic symmetry
collapses and only the ZrSi₂-type CaBi₂ stabilizes [14]. Moreover,
$T_{\rm c}$ rises to 9.0 K with increasing the Na doping in the Sr site,
which is attributed to the decrease of the average number of valence
electrons according to Matthias rules [15]. A recent high-pressure
report indicated that $T_{\rm c}$ of BaBi₃ increases with the pressure
coefficient $dT_{\rm c}/dP\sim 1.22$ K/GPa while $T_{\rm c}$ of SrBi₃
decreases with $dT_{\rm c}/dP\sim-0.48$ K/GPa [16]. Until now, the
relationship of the opposite pressure dependence and structural
transition in (Ba, Sr)Bi₃ isn’t clear [16], and the systematic studies
on experimental divergences are still lacking. As we know, structural
transition is often accompanied by different superconducting origins.
For (Ba, Sr)Bi₃, the relationship of lattice instabilities and
superconductivity has not been studied in depth. Combined with the
enhanced SOC characteristics, pressured-induced phenomena are expected
to elucidate the correlation of structural/electronic evolutions.

High pressure is a clean method; it shortens bond distances and
manipulates band structures as well as electron correlations, which
provides a distinctive tuning way to study the interplay of lattice
instabilities and superconductivity. High-pressure phase diagrams are
valuable in revealing the underlying mechanism. In this Rapid
Communication, we report two distinct superconducting states and a
crossover from a type-II to a type-I SC in spin-orbit-coupled SCs BaBi₃
and SrBi₃ under pressure. A single crystal was grown as reported [13].
Single-crystal x-ray diffraction (XRD) and powder XRD confirm they are
single phase with a small Bi impurity (<6

Figure 1 shows electrical resistivity (ρ), susceptibility, and specific
heat of BaBi₃ and SrBi₃. As the temperature increases, ρ(T) of BaBi₃
shows an S-like inflection at 40 K, and then tends to saturation above
250 K. This behavior implies electron-phonon scattering comparable to
the atomic lattice spacing [11]. In SrBi₃, ρ(T) increases linearly as a
function of temperature and its magnitude is three orders smaller than
that of BaBi₃. The superconducting transition temperatures
$T_{\rm c}^{\rm onset}$ and $T_{\rm c}^{\rm zero}$ are 6.0 and 5.95 K
for BaBi₃, and 5.6 and 5.50 for SrBi₃. The transition width is less than
0.1 K. Normal-state resistivity is fitted by ρ = ρ₀ + AT^(n), where
residual resistivity $\rho_{0}\sim 3.56\,\mu\Omega\,{\rm cm}$,
$A\sim 8.54\times 10^{-2}\,\mu\Omega\,{\rm cm/K^{2}}$, RRR
($=\rho_{\rm 300K/\rho_{0}}$)  ∼ 90 for BaBi₃, and
$\rho_{0}\sim 0.11\,\mu\Omega\,{\rm cm}$,
$A\sim 2.7\times 10^{-4}\,\mu\Omega\,{\rm cm/K^{3}}$, RRR  ∼ 549 for
SrBi₃. These features manifest high-quality crystals [11, 16]. Besides,
the exponent n shifts from 2 in BaBi₃ to 3 in SrBi₃, which suggests the
different dominant scatterings. In Figs. 1(e) and 1(f), susceptibility
is shown in zero-field-cooling (ZFC) and field-cooling (FC) processes.
The shield volumes $4\pi\,(M/H)_{\rm ZFC}$ and $4\pi\,(M/H)_{\rm FC}$
are 100

In Figs. 1(g) and 1(h), specific heat $C_{\rm e}(T)$ increases abruptly
at $T_{\rm c}$, as evidence of bulk SC. The analysis of
C(T) = γ_(n) T + β_(n) T³, where the first and second terms are the
electron and the phonon contribution, gives
$\gamma_{\rm n}=49.1\,{\rm mJ/mol\,K^{2}}$,
$\beta_{\rm n}=13.86\,{\rm mJ/mol\,K^{4}}$ for BaBi₃ and
$\gamma_{\rm n}=11.03\,{\rm mJ/mol\,K^{2}}$,
$\beta_{\rm n}=5.84\,{\rm mJ/mol\,K^{4}}$ for SrBi₃, respectively.
$\Delta C_{\rm e}/\gamma_{n}T_{\rm c}$ is to 0.67 for BaBi₃, half of
1.43 for Bardeen-Cooper-Schrieffer (BCS) weakly coupled SCs [18]; in
SrBi₃, $\Delta C_{\rm e}/\gamma_{n}T_{\rm c}$ is 2.41, about 3.60 times
larger than that of BaBi₃, which indicates that superconducting
properties are closely related to the tetragonal-cubic structural
transition. The temperature dependence of $C_{\rm e}/T$ satisfies the
BCS single-gap model $C_{\rm e}=C-\beta T^{3}=A\exp(-\Delta/k_{\rm B}T)$
and the fitting gives $2\Delta/k_{\rm B}T_{\rm c}\sim 3.28$ for BaBi₃
and 6.09 for SrBi₃, which suggests the different coupling strengths [3,
18]. The Debye temperature Θ_(D) is 149 K for BaBi₃ and 180 K for SrBi₃
by $\Theta_{\rm D}=12\pi^{4}\,NR/5\Theta_{\rm D}^{3}$ (N is 4, and R is
the gas constant). λ_(ph) is 0.98 for BaBi₃ and 0.93 for SrBi₃ by the
McMillan formula
$T_{\rm c}=(\Theta_{D}/1.45)\exp[-1.04(1+\lambda_{e-ph})/[\lambda_{e-ph}-\mu^{*} (1+0.62\lambda_{e-ph})]]$
with μ^(*) = 0.15[13, 18].

The electron-electron coupling constant λ_(s) is obtained from the
enhancement of the effective mass
$m^{*}/m_{0}=\lambda_{n}/Y_{\rm th}^{\rm th}=1+\lambda_{ph}+\lambda_{s}$
with $\gamma_{\rm n}^{\rm th}=2\pi^{2}\kappa_{\rm B}^{2}N(E_{\rm F})/3$
where $N(E_{\rm F})$ represents density of states at the Fermi level. In
BaBi₃, $N(E_{\rm F})\sim 2.4$ states/eV units with SOCs [13], and
λ_(s) = m^(*)/m₀ − 1-λ_(ph) ≈ 2.33 ≫ λ_(ph). Accordingly, the
Kadowaki-Woods ratio $R_{\rm KW}=A/\gamma_{\rm n}^{2}$ is ∼35.3
$\mu\Omega\,{\rm cmmol^{2}}$ K²/J² or ∼3.53 a₀, where
$a_{0}\sim 10\,\mu\Omega\,{\rm cm\,mol^{2}}$ K²/J²[19, 20].
$R_{\rm KW}\sim 3.53\,a_{0}$ is very close to ∼5a₀ in frustration
materials, and 5-7 times larger than ∼0.5 a₀ in two-dimensional (2D)
Fermi liquids [20, 21]. The large λ_(s)(∼2.33) and
$R_{\rm KW}(\sim 3.53\,a_{0})$ suggest an enhanced electron-electron
scattering in BaBi₃. However, the m^(*)/m₀ is smaller in SrBi₃, which
means that electron-electron scattering is so weak as to be ignored
compared to electron-phonon scattering. Whether it is dominated by
lattice symmetry or electronic behavior needs to be confirmed.

Figure 1: Crystal structures of tetragonal and cubic phases. ρ(T) of (a)
BaBi₃ and (b) SrBi₃. (c) T² plot of resistivity and linear fitting for
BaBi₃; (d) T² plot of resistivity and linear fitting for SrBi₃. Magnetic
susceptibility of (e) BaBi₃ and (f) SrBi₃ under the ZFC/FC processes.
$C_{\rm e}(T)/T$ and the fittings of
$C=\beta T^{3}+A\exp(-\Delta/k_{\rm B}T)$ where the Δ is the
superconducting gap, which gives $2\Delta/k_{\rm B}T_{\rm c}=3.28$ for
BaBi₃ and 6.09 for SrBi₃.

Superconducting parameters are obtained by analyzing the field
dependence of ρ(T), M(T) in Fig. S1 in the Supplemental Material [22].
The upper critical field $H_{\rm c2}(0)$ is 21.8 kOe for BaBi₃ and 1.9
kOe for SrBi₃ by using the Werthamer-Helfand-Hohenberg formula
$H_{\rm c2}(0)=-0.693\,T_{\rm c}\,{\rm d}H_{\rm c2}/{\rm d}T$[23]. The
lower critical field $H_{\rm c1}$ is determined where magnetization
departs linearly (Figs. S1(c) and S1(d) [22]). Temperature-dependent
$H_{\rm c1}(T)$ data are fitted by the formula
$H_{\rm c1}(T)=H_{\rm c1}(0)[1-(T/T_{\rm c})^{2}]$ and the lower
critical field $H_{\rm c1}(0)$ is 237.8 Oe for BaBi₃ and 488.70 Oe for
SrBi₃ by fitting $H_{\rm c1}(T)=H_{\rm c1}(0)[1-(T/T_{\rm c})^{2}]$.
Superconducting coherence length ξ is 12.30 nm for BaBi₃ and 42.28 nm
for SrBi₃ by the relationship of $H_{\rm c2}(0)=\Phi_{0}/2\pi\,\xi^{2}$
(where Φ₀ is the magnetic flux quantum) [24]. Then, London penetration
depths $\lambda_{\rm L}$ and $\kappa_{\rm GL}$ are estimated by
$H_{\rm c2}/H_{\rm c1}=2\kappa_{\rm GL}^{2}/\ln\kappa_{\rm GL}$ and
$\kappa_{\rm GL}~{}=\lambda_{\rm L}/\xi$. $\lambda_{\rm L}\sim 127.30$
nm and $\kappa_{\rm GL}~{}\sim 10.35$ for BaBi₃;
$\lambda_{\rm L}\sim 137.79$ nm and $\kappa_{\rm GL}~{}\sim 0.76$ for
SrBi₃. We note that $\kappa_{\rm GL}~{}\sim 10.35$ in BaBi₃ is larger
than that of SrBi₃ (∼ 0.76) [1-3], which implies a possible crossover
from a type-II to a type-I SC.

Temperature dependence of magnetic susceptibility under various
pressures is shown in Fig. 2. Pressure dependences of
$T_{\rm c}^{\rm M}$ and 4π (M/H) are summarized in Figs. 2(e)-2(h). For
BaBi₃, $T_{\rm c}^{\rm M}$ decreases from 5.95 at AP to 5.08 K at 0.85
GPa, then reaches 6.2 K at $P_{\rm c}\sim 0.88$ GPa, and then decreases
again with increasing the pressure further. Linear fittings yield
$dT_{\rm c}/dP=-0.55(1)\,{\rm K}/{\rm GPa}$ for $P<P_{\rm c}$ and
$-0.73(4)\,{\rm K}/{\rm GPa}$$P>P_{\rm c}$. Differently, for SrBa₃,
$T_{\rm c}^{\rm M}$ decreases monotonously from 5.65 K at AP to 4.79 K
at 1.75 GPa with $dT_{\rm c}/dP=-0.49(1)\,{\rm K}/{\rm GPa}$. It is
noted that $dT_{\rm c}/dP$ is ∼2−3 times larger in magnitude than that
of Bi ($dT_{\rm c}/dP=-0.18\,{\rm K}/{\rm GPa}$) [25], which eliminates
the possibilities of Bi impurity. Besides, $T_{\rm c}$ of BaBi₃ was
argued to increase with pressure, reaching a maximum of 6.6 K at 0.88
GPa [16]. In the case of BaBi₃, the present results are inconsistent
with the reports. However, the reasons for this difference are not
clear, either because of the quality of the samples, pressure
environments, or hidden phase changes. One more interesting item is that
bulk superconductivity of BaBi₃ vanishes at $P_{\rm c}$ with the
4π (M/H) ∼ 5% at $P_{\rm c}$ and 1 above $P_{\rm c}$. It implies that
the original superconducting state (SC1) transits into the second
superconducting phase (SC2) under pressure. The 4π (M/H) of SC1
decreases from 1 to nearly zero at $P_{\rm c}$ while the 4π (M/H) of SC2
increases from zero to 1; a similar phenomenon is accompanied by
pressure-induced structural transitions [26].

Pressure dependence of the superconducting parameters of
$H_{\rm c1}(0)$, $H_{\rm c2}(0)$, $\lambda_{\rm L}(0)$, ξ(0),
$\kappa_{\rm GL}(0)$ are studied by measuring magnetic susceptibility.
The M(T) curve is shown in Figs. 3(a) and 3(b) for BaBi₃. The
$4\pi\,(M/H)_{\rm ZFC}$ and $4\pi\,(M/H)_{\rm FC}$ are 100

Figure 3: (a,b) M(T) curves under various pressures for BaBi₃; M(H)
curves under various temperatures/pressures: (c) 2 K; (d) 2–5.75 K at
0.21 GPa; (e) 2–5.75 K at 0.41 GPa; (f) 2–5 K at 0.68 GPa; (g) 2–5 K at
0.85 GPa; (h) 2–5.75 K at 1.17 GPa; (i) 2–5.5 K at 1.22 GPa; (j) –5.5 K
at 14.0 GPa; (k) 2–5.5 K at 1.54 GPa; (l) 2–5.5 K at 1.73 GPa.

Figure 2: M(T) curves under ZFC process at 10 Oe for (a) BaBi₃, run 1,
(b) BaBi₃, run 2, (c) SrBi₃, run 1, and (d) SrBi₃, run 2. $T_{\rm c}$ of
(e) BaBi₃ and (g) SrBi₃. The 4π (M/H) for (f) BaBi₃ and (h) SrBi₃; the
lines in (e,g) are linear fittings; the lines in (f,h) indicate the
change trends.

enhancement at $P_{\rm c}$ at first, and then decreases with pressure.
It manifests that SC1 is more robust than SC2 [27]. Then, ξ(0),
$\lambda_{\rm L}$(0), and $\kappa_{\rm GL}$(0) are calculated in Figs.
4(e)-4(g). These parameters jump around $P_{\rm c}$. In detail,
$\lambda_{\rm L}$ decreases while ξ shows a monotonous increase with
increasing the pressure. As a result, $\kappa_{\rm GL}$ of BaBi3
decreases from 10.53 at AP to 0.86 at 1.17 GPa, and then tends to
saturation. It suggests that decrease of $\kappa_{\rm GL}$ at
$P_{\rm c}$ is closely related with structural transition. We note that
$\kappa_{\rm GL}$ of BaBi3 is larger than $\frac{1}{\sqrt{2}}$ in both
SC1 and SC2, indicating that both are type-II SCs. We also focus on
M(H)s of BaBi3 as in Figs. 3(c)-3(l): it is thin and concave for SC1 and
becomes plump and symmetrical for SC2, reflecting different
superconducting properties. In the same way, the susceptibility of SrBi3
was plotted in Fig. S2 (0.50, 0.82, 1.20, 1.69 GPa) in the Supplemental
Material [22]. With increasing the pressure, the divergences of
M(T)${}_{\rm ZFC}$ and M(T)${}_{\rm FC}$ decrease. As a result, the
4π(M/H)${}_{\rm ZFC}$ remain unchanged, ∼85

Figure 5 presents type-I SC, type-II SC, and the conversion. In BaBi3,
from SC1 to SC2, $H_{\rm c2}$(0) decreases while $H_{\rm c1}$(0)
increases around $P_{\rm c}$, which accounts for the jump of
$\kappa_{\rm GL}$, while in SrBi3, large and insensitive pressure
dependence of $H_{\rm c1}$(0) is an inducement of the decrease in
$\kappa_{\rm GL}$. In Figs. 4(d) and 5(k), a parameter η =
[$H_{\rm c2}(0)-H_{\rm c1}(0)$]/$H_{\rm c2}$(0) is used to describe the
evolution of $H_{\rm c1}$(0) and $H_{\rm c2}$(0): type I (η ≤ 1) and
type II (η ≥ 1). η decreases from 85.4 at AP to 4.18 at 1.22 GPa in
BaBi3, and from 2.76 at AP to $\frac{1}{\sqrt{2}}$ above 1.20 GPa in
SrBi3, indicating pressure-induced crossover. Type-II SC has a strong
flux-pinning effect, which is not possible in a "clean" type-I SC. Thus,
a type-II SC can be distinguished. In Fig. 3 and Fig. S2 in the
Supplemental Material [22], ΔM is defined as the width of the hysteresis
loop and is proportional to critical current density by the Bean models.
In BaBi3, ΔM increases at first and its value at 1.22 GPa is 2 times
larger than that at AP, and then decreases with increasing the pressure.
In SrBi3, ΔM(H) decreases in the same shape with SC2 of BaBi3 and the
magnitude decreases to nearly 20 times smaller above 1.20 GPa, which
suggests the pressure-induced crossover. However, an inconsistency is
that the pinning effect is not completely eliminated in SrBi3. One
reason is the interference of impurities which

Figure 5: Type-I SC, type-II SC, and the conversions. Pressure
dependence of $H_{\rm c1}$(0), $H_{\rm c2}$(0) is plotted and the colors
represent the changes of fields. Phase diagram of P − H − ΔM × H, where
ΔM is the difference of hysteresis loops under the same field.

makes a type-I SC behave as a type-II SC. Similar phenomena frequently
appear in type-I SCs [8, 9]. In addition, ΔM × H at 2 K in Figs. S3(c)
and S3(d) changes from a platform peak below $P_{\rm c}$ to a single
sharp peak above $P_{\rm c}$ in BaBi₃ (Supplemental Material [22]). In
SrBi₃, it decreases to nearly zero above 1.20 GPa. These characteristics
confirm the crossover again.

The constructed Fermi surface along with tetragonal-cubic phase
transition is critical to two district superconducting phases. In BaBi₃,
high pressure decreases $T_{\rm c}$ but with a sudden rise at
$P_{\rm c}$. Several origins are proposed: the first scenario is that
pressure broadens energy bands and results in a decrease in
N(E_(F))[23]. It is consistent with the dominated s-wave gaps [10, 11,
13] and Matthias rules [15]. The second factor is SOC, which is
conducive to superconducting pairs and causes an increase of the
electron-phonon coupling and N(E_(F))[13]. $T_{\rm c}$ decreases if SOC
is suppressed by pressure. Thirdly, the increase of $T_{\rm c}$ at
$P_{\rm c}$ is unusual in BaBi₃. As above, the features of SC2 in BaBi₃
are similar to those of SrBi₃, giving us a convincing reason to believe
that structural transition causes the increase of $T_{\rm c}$ comparable
to the Na doping [15]. Similar behaviors have been reported in CaC₆ and
Bi [26, 28, 29]. One more interesting item is the crossover from type-II
to type-I SC in SrBi₃. It has been argued that a type-I SC can be
converted into a type-II SC by introducing impurities [5, 6]. Because
disorders shorten electron mean free path and lead to the increases of
$\kappa_{\rm GL}$ in the "dirty"-limit SCs. Thus, this crossover is
inclined to be an electronic transition since high pressure is a clean
method [2, 3]. Several mechanisms are possible: The first is that
pressure reshapes bands and enhances carrier concentration. One result
is to shorten the electron mean free path, which goes against the
crossover in the dirty limit. However, $\kappa_{\rm GL}$ is not related
with the electron mean free path in the "clean" limit. If this
assumption is true, $\kappa_{\rm GL}$ is inclined to be related with
$H_{\rm c1}(0)$ and $\lambda_{\rm L}(0)$, which is consistent with the
above discussions. The second is the weakness of SOC and the
electron-phonon coupling, which weakens electron correlations [11, 13].
The third scenario is the varieties of vortex interactions along with
lattice contractions, which has been predicted [7]. To clarify this,
more theoretical/experimental studies are required.

We thank S. Nagasaki and Dr. Gouchi for the technical assistance. This
work is supported by National Key Research and Development Program under
Contracts No. 2016YFA0300404, No. 2018YFA0305700, and No. 2018FA0305800;
the National Nature Science Foundation of China under Contracts No.
11674326 and No. 11874357; and the Joint Funds of the National Natural
Science Foundation of China and the Chinese Academy of Sciences’
Large-Scale Scientific Facility (U1832141). We also acknowledge the
Strategic Priority Research Program and the Key Research Program of
Frontier Sciences of CAS (XDB07020100 and QYZDB-SSW-SLH013), the IOP
Hundred-Talent Program (Y7K5031 × 61), and the Youth Promotion
Association, CAS (2018010).

## References

* [1] A. A. Abrikosov, Sov. Phys. JETP **5**, 1174 (1957); B. B.
Goodman, Prog. Phys. **29**, 445 (1966). * [2] R. Khasanov, P. S.
Hafliger, N. Shitsevalova, A. Dukhnenko, R. Brutsch, and H. Keller,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **97**, 157002 (2006); S. Gabani, Mat. Orendac, J.
Kusnir, E. Galo, G. Pristas, T. Mori, and K. Flachbart, J. Low Temp.
Phys. **187**, 559 (2017). * [3] K. E. Gray, J. Zasadzinski, R. Vaglio,
and D. Hinks, Phys. Rev. B **27**, 4161 (1983). * [4] H. W. Weber, J. F.
Sporna, and E. Seidl, Phys. Rev. Lett. **41**, 1502 (1978). * [5] H.
Kiessig, U. Essmann, H. Teichler, and W. Wiethaup, Phys. Lett. A **51**,
333 (1975). * [6] J. Auer and H. Ullmaier, Phys. Rev. B **7**, 136
(1973). * [7] J. Hove, S. Mo, and A. Sudbo, Phys. Rev. B **66**, 064524
(2002). * [8] Z. Wang, Y. Sun, X. Q. Chen, C. Franchini, G. Xu, H. M.
Weng, X. Dai, and Z. Fang, Phys. Rev. B **85**, 195320 (2012). * [9] X.
Zhu, H. Lei, C. Petrovic, and Y. Zhang, Phys. Rev. B **86**, 024527
(2012). * [10] B. T. Matthias and K. Corenzwit, Phys. Rev. **107**, 1558
(1957). * [11] N. Haldolaarachchige, S. K. Kushwaha, Q. Gibson, and R.
J. Cava, Supercond. Sci. Technol. 27, 105001 (2014). * [12] B. T.
Matthias and J. K. Hulm, Phys. Rev. **87**, 799 (1952). * [13] D. F.
Shao, X. Luo, W. J. Luo, L. Hu, X. D. Zhu, W. H. Song, X. B. Zhu, and Y.
P. Sun, Sci. Rep. **6**, 21484 (2016). * [14] M. J. Winiarski, B.
Wiendlocha, S. Golab, S. K. Kushwaha, P. Wisniewski, D. Kaczorowski, J.
D. Thompson, R. J. Cava, and T. Klimczuk, Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys.
**18**, 21737 (2016). * [15] A. Iyo, Y. Yanagi, T. Kinjo, T. Nishio, I.
Hase, T. Yanagisawa, S. Ishida, H. Kito, N. Takeshita, K. Oka, Y.
Yoshida, and H. Eisaki, Sci. Rep. **5**, 10089 (2015). * [16] R. Jha, M.
A. Avila, and R. A. Ribeiro, Supercond. Sci. Technol. **30**, 025015
(2017). * [17] N. Mori, H. Takahashi, and N. Takeshita, High Pressure
Res. **24**, 225 (2004). * [18] W. L. McMillan, Phys. Rev. **167**, 331
(1968). * [19] K. Miyake, T. Matsuura, and C. M. Varma, Solid State
Commun. **71**, 1149 (1989). * [20] S. Y. Li, L. Taillefer, D. G.
Hawthorn, M. A. Tanatar, J. Paglione, M. Sutherland, R. W. Hill, C. H.
Wang, and X. H. Chen, Phys. Rev. Lett. **93**, 056401 (2004). * [21] P.
Tong, Y. P. Sun, X. B. Zhu, and W. H. Song, Phys. Rev. B **74**, 224416
(2006). * [22] See Supplemental Material at
http://link.aps.org/supplemental/10.1103/PhysRevB.98.220506 for the
summary of electrical transport and magnetic susceptibility
superconducting parameters at ambient pressure and high pressure. * [23]
N. R. Werthamer, E. Helfand, and P. C. Hohenberg, Phys. Rev. **147**,
295 (1966). * [24] J. Bardeen, L. N. Cooper, and J. R. Schrieffer, Phys.
Rev. **108**, 1175 (1957). * [25] C. Buzea and K. Robbie, Supercond.
Sci. Technol. **18**, R1 (2005). * [26] K. Kudo, M. Takasuga, Y.
Okamoto, Z. Hiroi, and M. Nohara, Phys. Rev. Lett. **109**, 097002
(2012). * [27] I. J. Lee, M. J. Naughton, G. M. Danner, and P. M.
Chaikin, Phys. Rev. Lett. **78**, 3555 (1997). * [28] A. Gauzzi, S.
Takashima, N. Takeshita, C. Terakura, H. Takagi, N. Emery, C. Herold, P.
Lagrange, and G. Loupias, Phys. Rev. Lett. **98**, 067002 (2007). * [29]
A. Yoneda and S. Endo, J. Appl. Phys. **51**, 3216 (1980).
