# Superconductivity and magnetism in the Heusler alloys _M_Pd2Pb (_M_ =
rare earth, Th, and U)

C. L. Seaman,* N. R. Dilley, M. C. de Andrade, J. Herrmann, M. B. Maple,
and Z. Fisk+

Department of Physics and Institute for Pure and Applied Physical
Sciences, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, California
92093

27 September 1995

###### Abstract

We report on an investigation of superconductivity and magnetism in the
series of compounds _M_Pd2Pb (_M_ = rare earth, Th, U) through
measurements of electrical resistivity, magnetic susceptibility,
specific heat, and lattice parameters. Both single crystals and
polycrystalline samples were studied. The compound UPd2Pb was examined
for possible heavy-fermion behavior, and found to exhibit
antiferromagnetic order below T = 35 K.

## Introduction

Several Heusler alloys (cubic L21 structure) with the general chemical
formula _RT_2_X have been found to exhibit superconductivity, including
YPd2X (_X_ = Sn, Pb, In, and [1] YAu2Sn,[2] and _R_Pd2Sn (_R_ = Sc, Y,
Tm, Yb, and Lu),[1, 3] with critical temperatures as high as 4.76 K.
Moreover, superconductivity and antiferromagnetism coexist in the
compound YbPd2Sn. Higher T_(c) values were generally found for compounds
with larger lattice parameters, with YPd2Pb yielding the highest
reported value of 4.76 K.[1] For _R_Pd2Pb samples, we also expected the
effects of magnetic pair breaking by the magnetic R ions to be minimized
because of the large lattice parameters, which could give rise to
interesting effects due to the interaction and competition between
superconductivity and magnetism. We report on an investigation of
superconductivity and magnetism in the series of compounds _M_Pd2Pb (_M_
= rare earth R, Th, and U), primarily through measurements of electrical
resistivity and magnetic susceptibility. Both polycrystalline samples
and single crystals were studied. We find that the magnetic rare-earth
ions order antiferromagnetically at low temperatures with the lowest
Neel temperature T_(N) values among _R_Pd2X compounds. Bulk
superconductivity is found for R = Sc, Y, Tm, Yb, and Lu, but with lower
T_(c) values than expected, probably associated with sample quality.
Motivated by heavy-fermion behavior previously observed in UPd2Sn,[4]
the compound UPd2Pb was examined for possible heavy-fermion behavior,
and found to exhibit antiferromagnetic order below T = 35 K, inferred
from a sharp cusp observed in the magnetic susceptibility. The large
value of the linear coefficient of the specific heat g 100 mJ/mol K2,
determined from data measured below 35 K, along with the temperature
dependence of the electrical resistivity, suggest that this may be an
antiferromagnetic low effective mass heavy-fermion compound.

## Experimental details

Single crystals and polycrystalline samples of _M_Pd2Pb were fabricated
by flux growth and by melting in sealed Ta tubes, respectively. Powder
x-ray-diffraction measurements were subsequently made using a Rigaku
rotating-anode diffractometer utilizing Cu _K_a radiation.
Electrical-resistivity measurements were made on the polycrystalline
samples from 1 to 300 K in a ⁴He cryostat using a self-balancing,
four-wire ac resistance bridge operating at 16 Hz, with typical
excitation current densities of  100 _m_A/cm2. Platinum electrical leads
(50 _m_m diameter) were attached with silver epoxy. Static
magnetic-susceptibility measurements were performed on single crystals
using a Quantum Design superconducting quantum interference device
(SQUID) magnetometer from 1.8 to 300 K in magnetic fields up to 7 T.
Low-temperature (0.2 <= T <= 6 K) ac magnetic-susceptibility
measurements were performed in a ³He/⁴He dilution refrigerator.
Specific-heat measurements were made on a polycrystalline sample of
UPd2Pb from 0.5 to 20 K using a semiaidatic heat-pulse calorimeter
utilizing a ³He cryostat.

## Sample preparation

Single crystals of _M_Pd2Pb were successfully grown in Pb flux for M =
Sc, Y, Gd, Tb, Dy, Ho, Er, Tm, and Lu. Attempts to grow crystals with M
= Yb and U were unsuccessful, even though polycrystalline samples could
be prepared by arc melting. In addition, attempts to grow crystals
consisting of the lighter rare-earth ions M = Ce, Pr, Nd, Sm, and Eu
were unsuccessful, consistent with our inability to make polycrystalline
samples, most likely due to the large size of the trivalent ions. The
crystals were prepared in the following way.

Stoichiometric amounts of 99.9

Stoescent x-ray powder diffraction of powdered crystals verified the
single-phase L21 cubic Heusler structure for R = Lu, Tm, Er, Ho, Dy, Tb,
Gd, Y, and Sc. No impurity peaks, including those of free Pb, were
evident in the x-ray patterns. The intensity of the background noise
level was only ∼0.1

Polycrystalline samples were fabricated by melting in Ta tubes as
follows. Stoichiometric amounts of each element were sealed in a
1-cm-diameter Ta tube, with 1 atm UHP Ar. The tube was then sealed in a
quartz tube backfilled to 150 torr UHP Ar, heated to 1300 ^(∘)C for 1 h,
and subsequently quenched by placing the 1300 ^(∘)C tube in water at
room temperature. Samples with the Heusler structure were made for
R = Sc, Y, Tb, Dy, Ho, Tm, Yb, and U. X-ray powder-diffraction data
revealed trace amounts of elemental Pb (a superconductor with
T_(c) = 7.2 K) in all samples, Pb₂Pd (a superconductor with T_(c) = 3.0
K) for R = Y, Dy, Ho, and Tm, and RPd₃ (not superconducting) for R = Yb.
This method was not successful for R = Ce, Eu, Gd, Lu, or Th, although a
minority Heusler phase was still discernible for Lu. The R = Er sample
was made by arc melting with excess Pb to compensate for loss due to its
high vapor pressure. None of the samples were subsequently annealed.

It is interesting to note that the related compounds RPd₂Sn, with R = Tb
and Dy, exhibit structural transformations at ∼250 and 50 K,
respectively, which lowers the crystal symmetries.[5] The
transformations were not evident from magnetic susceptibility, and we
cannot rule out similar transformations occurring in our RPd₂Pb samples.

## RESULTS AND DISCUSSION

### RPd₂Pb (R =rare earth: Sc,Y,Gd,Tb,Dy,Ho,Er,Tm,Yb,Lu)

#### Electrical resistivity

Shown in Fig. 1 is the temperature dependence of the normal-state
electrical resistivity ρ(T), normalized to its room-temperature value,
of RPd₂Pb compounds in which the 4f electron shell of the R ions is (a)
empty or filled and (b) partially filled. Except for R = Gd, for which a
single crystal was used, polycrystalline samples were measured because
of the difficulty of attaching electrical leads to the extremely small
crystals. All samples exhibit metallic behavior with positive
temperature coefficient of resistance at all temperatures below 295 K.
The data display downward curvature except at the lowest temperatures
where phonon scattering freezes out and the data eventually saturate
towards the zero-temperature value due to scattering by defects and
impurities. Although the degree of curvature varies among the RPd₂Pb
samples, it does not appear to depend in a systematic way on the R ion.
In particular, temperature-dependent magnetic scattering due to
splitting of the ground-state multiplet by the crystalline electric
field (CEF) is not obvious. The resistance ratio RR= ρ(295 K)/ρ(0 K)
also varies a lot among samples, attesting to varying amounts of
impurity scattering. Qualitatively speaking, those samples with the
largest-moment R ions, namely, R = Gd, Ho, and Dy, exhibit the smallest
RR’s.

All of the polycrystalline samples have elemental Pb impurities, which
causes ρ(T) to drop below T ≈ 7 K owing to the superconductivity of Pb.
For those samples in which ρ(T) does not drop to zero by then, an
additional drop is observed below T ≈ 3 K due to the presence of a Pb₂Pd
impurity phase, which is superconducting with T_(c) = 3.0 K.[6] No such
resistive drops are observed for the relatively impurity-free
single-crystal specimen of GdPd₂Pb, allowing a small anomaly in ρ(T),
shown in the inset of Fig. 1(b), to be observed near T = 4.5 K. This
anomaly is due to antiferromagnetic ordering of the Gd moments, as
inferred from the magnetic susceptibility discussed below.

#### Magnetic susceptibility

Shown in Fig. 2 is the inverse magnetic susceptibility χ⁻¹ as a function
of temperature T for the RPd₂Pb compounds with magnetic rare-earth ions
R. The χ(T) data were acquired for many clusters of single crystals with
random orientations with respect to the magnetic-field direction, except
for R = Er for which a polycrystalline sample was measured. Over a wide
temperature range (10≈T ≈300 K), the data for all of these samples are
well described by the Curie-Weiss law
$\chi(T)\!=\!N\mu_{eff}^{2}/3k_{B}(T\!-\!\theta_{\rm CW})$, where N is
the number of rare-earth ions, μ_(eff) is the effective magnetic moment,
and $\theta_{\rm CW}$ is the Curie-Weiss temperature. The solid lines in
Fig. 2 represent least-squares linear fits of the data, which yield

Figure 1: Normal-state electrical resistivity normalized to its
room-temperature value, ρ(T)/ρ(295 K), vs temperature T for RPd₂Pb
polycrystalline samples in which the 4f electron shell of the R ion is
(a) empty or filled and (b) partially filled. Data for R = Gd are for a
single crystal. Resistivity drops at T ≈ 7 K are due to Pb inclusions.

values for $\mu_{\rm eff}$ and $\theta_{\rm CW}$ listed in Table 1. The
values of $\mu_{\rm eff}$ are close to the theoretical Hund’s rules
ground-state values for free trivalent rare-earth ions as illustrated in
Fig. 3 and do not deviate much from the Curie-Weiss fits above the
antiferromagnetic ordering temperatures, suggesting that the CEF energy
level splittings $\Delta_{\rm CEF}$ of the Hund’s rules ground-state
multiplets are small ($\Delta_{\rm CEF}$<10 K≈1 meV) in these compounds.

The Curie-Weiss temperatures $\theta_{\rm CW}$ are all negative,
indicative of antiferromagnetic (AFM) exchange interactions. These
interactions give rise to AFM order at low temperatures, revealed as a
peak in the magnetic susceptibility for some of these samples at the
Neel temperature T_(N), as shown in Fig. 4 and listed in Table 1. Data
for R = Gd, Tb, and Dy represent $\chi_{\rm dc}$ from static (dc)
magnetization measurements taken in a field of 10 Oe (100 Oe for R = Gd)
after zero-field cooling (ZFC) and during field cooling (FC). Data for R
= Ho and Er are from low-temperature ac magnetic-susceptibility
$\chi_{\rm ac}$ measurements.

Two interesting aspects of the magnetic-susceptibility data are (1)
there is only a small decrease in χ(T) below T_(N) as T→0 [the ratio
χ(0)/χ(T_(N)) is much larger than the theoretical value of 2/3 for an
isotropic, uniaxial AFM powder specimen[7] and (2) irreversibility in
$\chi_{\rm dc}$ appears below an onset temperature $T_{\rm irr}$,
reminiscent of spin-glass freezing. The large χ(0)/χ(T_(N)) ratio is
characteristic of spin glasses, but can also occur for an
antiferromagnetically ordered fcc lattice due to low anisotropy
energy.[8] In the latter case, the measured susceptibility below T_(N)
approaches χ_(⊥) (in which the antiparallel moments are perpendicular to
the applied magnetic field H), which is more energetically favorable
than χ_(∥) (moments parallel to H). Paramagnetic impurities could also
increase the measured value of χ(0)/χ(T_(N)). The irreversible
$\chi_{\rm dc}(T)$ for GdPd₂Pb was measured with H = 1, 10, 100, and 200
Oe, with little change in χ(T) or T_(N). This observation, as well as
the observed scaling of T_(N) with the de Gennes factor (described
below), and the electrical-resistivity results (described above)
eliminate the possibility that these anomalies are due to
superconductivity. The irreversibility in the magnetization might be due
to structural disorder (defects) in the samples, which could give rise
to

Figure 4: Low-temperature magnetic susceptibility χ vs temperature T of
RPd₂Pb single crystals, revealing antiferromagnetic order below the Néel
temperature T_(N), determined from the cusp in the data. The data for R
=Gd, Tb, and Dy are from dc measurements taken in fields of 100, 10, and
10 Oe, respectively, upon zero-field cooling (ZFC) and field cooling
(FC). The data for R = Ho and Er are from ac susceptibility measurements
as described in the text.

Figure 3: Effective magnetic moments $\mu_{\rm eff}$ of the rare-earth
ions R in RPd₂Pb (solid circles), derived from Curie-Weiss fits to the
magnetic susceptibility, compared to the theoretical free-ion values
(open circles).

   M    a (Å)   $\mu_{\rm eff}$ (μ_(B))   $\theta_{\rm CW}$ (K)   T_(c) (K)a   T_(N) (K)
  ---- ------- ------------------------- ----------------------- ------------ -----------
   Sc   6.63               0                        –                2.4           –
   Y    6.74               0                        –                2.3           –
   Gd   6.81             8.51                     −17.3               *           4.5
   Tb   6.79             10.17                    −16.9               *           2.8
   Dy   6.76             11.13                    −9.8                *           2.4
   Ho   6.75             11.10                    −6.5                *           0.8
   Er   6.76             9.77                     −5.2                *           0.6
   Tm   6.72             7.85                     −2.7               2.1           *
   Yb   6.73             4.15                     −3.6               2.8           *
   Lu   6.73               0                        –                2.4           –
   Th   6.88               0                        –                 *            –
   U    6.85              2.8                      −51                *           35

Table 1: Physical parameters for MPd₂Pb. A dash indicates that the entry
is not applicable to nonmagnetic M ions. * indicates not detected above
0.1 K.

Figure 2: Inverse magnetic susceptibility χ⁻¹ vs temperature T for
RPd₂Pb single crystals, where R has a partially filled 4f electron
shell. The measurements were made in a field of 1 T for 1.8≈7≈300 K.

spin-glass-like behavior, or possibly geometrical frustration of the
ordered moments on the fcc lattice.

The existence of bulk superconductivity was confirmed for some of the
RPd₂Pb samples from dc magnetic-susceptibility measurements, taken upon
both ZFC and FC in a magnetic field H = 10 Oe. ZFC data are shown in
Fig. 5. The χ(T) data were irreversible with the FC data being typically
50

The superconducting transitions are rather broad, with onset
temperatures ranging from 2.1 to 2.8 K (see Table 1). Previous
measurements of T_(c) for arc-melted polycrystalline samples of YPd₂Pb
yielded higher values of T_(c) = 4.76 (Ref. 1) and 4.05 K.[9] The
precise value of T_(c) is known to be highly sensitive to the
stoichiometry in these Heusler systems, with a possible correlation with
lattice parameter, which could be due to a sharp feature in the
electronic density of states.[1] It is not clear what value of T_(c)
represents that of the stoichiometric compound YPd₂Pb. We note, however,
that one must be very careful to account for the effects of any
superconducting impurities including Pb (T_(c) = 7.2 K) and Pb₂Pd
(T_(c) = 3.0 K).

Magnetic interactions in a metal with rare-earth ions are governed by
the sf exchange interaction between the conduction electron spins
${\bf s}$ and the total angular momentum ${\bf J}$ of the local 4f
states, given by the Hamiltonian
${\cal R}_{sf}\!=\!-2\,\bar{\cal J}_{sf}(g_{J}\!-\!1)\,{\bf J}\!\cdot\!{\bf s}$,
where $\bar{\cal J}_{sf}$ is the exchange coupling parameter and g_(J)
is the Lande g factor of the rare-earth ion. The factor (g_(J) − 1)
results from replacing the total spin ${\bf S}$ with its projection onto
the total ${\bf J}$ for rare earths with finite orbital angular momentum
${\bf L}$. For superconducting metals, this interaction leads to
magnetic pair breaking as described, for example, by the
Abrikosov-Gorkov theory. For a lattice of rare-earth ions, this
interaction leads to the RKKY indirect exchange interaction between
rare-earth ions, with Hamiltonian
${\cal R}_{\rm RKKY}\!=\!-\Sigma\bar{\cal J}_{\rm eff}|{\bf J}\!\cdot\!{\bf J}\!\rangle$,
where
$\bar{\cal J}_{\rm eff}\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!  ductivity was previously observed in TmPd\({}_{4}$Sn
and YbPd₂Sn with T_(c) values of 2.8 and 2 K, respectively,[13] and
YbPd₂Sn was discovered to exhibit coexistence of superconductivity and
antiferromagnetic order of the Yb ions below T_(N)=0.23 K.[3] This
coexistence has been attributed to the small de Gennes factor of Yb. The
TmPd₂Sn compound was postulated to have a nonmagnetic CEF ground state.
There does not appear to be any sign of magnetic order for TmPd₂Pb or
YbPd₂Pb down to 1.8 K from our magnetic-susceptibility measurements.

From magnetic-susceptibility and ¹¹⁹Sn Mossbauer measurements on
TmPd₂Sn, Malik, Umarji, and Shenoy[10] deduced that the Tm³⁺ ions have a
Γ₃ nonmagnetic ground state with a first excited triplet state ∼1 meV
(∼10 K) above the ground state. Shown in Fig. 7 are magnetization M(H)
data for TmPd₂Pb crystals at 1.8 K, measured in fields H up to 7 T. The
M(H) data are nonlinear and consist of a contribution that appears to
saturate like a Brillouin function in high fields and a linear term with
a slope χ₀=0.07 emu/mol, represented by the dashed line. The linear term
could be a second-order van Vleck susceptibility term. Extrapolation of
the linear term to zero yields the saturation magnetization of ∼19×10³
emu/mol, corresponding to g_(J)=3.4μ_(B) , which is less than the
saturation moment of 7μ_(B) for the full Tm³⁺ multiplet. This reduced
value could be due to the cubic CEF which splits the multiplet such that
the Γ⁽²⁾ triplet, which has the magnetic moment
g_(J)⟨Γ₅⁽²⁾|J_(z)|Γ₅⁽²⁾⟩=3.13μ_(B) , lies lowest.[11] A nonmagnetic
ground state appears to be ruled out unless the CEF splittings are very
small compared to 1.8 K.

Shown in the inset is a plot of the temperature dependence of the
inverse magnetic susceptibility from 1.8 to 10 K as measured in a low
field of 1 kOe where M(H) is approximately linear down to 1.8 K. The
dashed line in the inset represents a fit to a Curie-Weiss law in this
temperature range, which has nearly the same $\mu_{\rm eff}$ and
$\theta_{\rm CW}$ as the high-temperature fits, again suggesting that
the CEF splitting is very small, or that the Γ₅⁽²⁾ triplet lies lowest
in energy. In either case, it is surprising that superconductivity
exists in TmPd₂Pb despite the highly magnetic character of the Tm ions
even at low temperatures T∼T_(c) .

### Upd₂Pb

In a previous study of uranium-based ternary compounds with the chemical
formula UT₂X with T=Pd, Au and X=In, Si, Ge, Sn, Sb, it was found that
only those with M=In formed the cubic Heusler structure.[4] The others
revealed a more complicated structure in the x-ray-diffraction patterns,
believed to be orthorhombic. None of those materials studied were
superconducting down to 80 mK. The compound UPd₂Sn, however, displayed
characteristics of valence fluctuation or Kondo lattice phenomena below
a characteristic temperature ∼10 K, and is considered[4] to be a
nonmagnetic, nonsuperconducting heavy-electron material. In particular,
the electronic specific-heat coefficient γ=$C_{\rm eff}/T$ was found to
be strongly temperature dependent with a maximum value of ∼270 mJ/mol K²
at 9.7 K and an extrapolated value of ∼70 mJ/mol K² at T=0 K.

We have synthesized polycrystalline samples of UPd₂Pb and found that it
forms the cubic L2₁ Heusler structure. The cubic lattice parameter
a=6.85±0.01 A is the largest of all the MPd₂X L2₁ Heusler compounds (see
Table 1), except perhaps for a mixed-phase ThPd₂Pb sample which had a
comparable value a=6.88±0.05 A. It is interesting that this compound
forms while MPd₂Pb compounds with M=Sm and Eu, which would have smaller
or comparable lattice parameters, do not. It is possible that the
hybridization of the 5f electrons with the conduction-band states
stabilizes this

Figure 8: Temperature T dependence of (a) the normalized electrical
resistivity ρ(T)/ρ(295 K) and (b) the de magnetic susceptibility χ(T) of
UPd₂Pb (polycrystalline sample), revealing antiferromagnetic order of
the U ions below T_(N)=35 K.

Figure 7: Isothermal magnetization M vs magnetic field H of TmPd₂Pb
single crystals at T=1.8 K. The solid line is a guide to the eye. The
dashed line represents a linear fit to the high-field data with the
slope χ₀=0.07 emu/mol. Inset: Low-field (H=0.1 T) inverse magnetic
susceptibility χ⁻¹ vs temperature below 10 K. The dashed line represents
a fit of the data to a Curie-Weiss law for 1.8≈T≈10 K with
$\mu_{\rm eff}$=7.3μ_(B) and $\theta_{\rm CW}$= –1.4 K, revealing
magnetic behavior of the Tm ions.

crystal structure. We subsequently measured ρ(T), χ(T), and C(T) in
order to characterize it for possible heavy-fermion behavior.

The temperature dependences of the normalized electrical resistivity and
magnetic susceptibility of UPd₂Pb are shown in Figs. 8(a) and 8(b),
respectively. The electrical resistivity ρ(T) increases by only a few
percent with decreasing temperature down to ∼100 K, below which ρ(T)
decreases. The negative temperature coefficient of resistance above 100
K is indicative of Kondo-like magnetic scattering and is a typical
feature of heavy-fermion materials, as is the subsequent drop below 100
K. A small kink in the ρ(T) data is observed at T=35 K, which we
attribute to antiferromagnetic ordering of the U ions, inferred from the
magnetic-susceptibility data in Fig. 8(b). Like the other MPd₂Pb
polycrystalline samples, ρ(T) drops suddenly below 7.2 K due to Pb
inclusions. The low-temperature resistivity of MPd₂Pb could be studied
by applying a magnetic field sufficient to destroy the superconductivity
of Pb and Pb₂Pd impurity phases.

The magnetic susceptibility of UPd₂Pb is shown in Fig. 8(b). A sharp
cusp is observed at T=35 K, which we attribute to AFM order of the U
ions. In contrast to the RPd₂Pb compounds which exhibit AFM order, the
ratio χ(0)/χ(T_(N))∼0.75 for UPd₂Pb, which is only slightly larger than
the theoretical value of 2/3 for an isotropic, uniaxial AFM powder
specimen.[7] At higher temperatures, the χ(T) data can be described by a
Curie-Weiss law plus a constant χ₀, χ(T) =
N$\mu_{\rm eff}^{2}$/3k_(B)(T - $\theta_{\rm CW}$)+χ₀, represented by
the solid line, with $\mu_{\rm eff}$=2.77μ_(B), $\theta_{\rm CW}$= -50
K, and χ₀=6.2×10⁻⁴ emu/mol. The value of the effective moment is
somewhat smaller than the free-ion values for trivalent (3.62μ_(B)) and
tetravalent (3.58μ_(B)) U ions. The paramagnetic constant χ₀ could be
due to an enhanced Pauli susceptibility for a heavy-fermion compound.
Significant CEF splitting ($\Delta_{\rm CEF}$∼100 K) might also give
rise to the observed deviation from free-ion behavior. Not shown in Fig.
8(b), the χ(T) data reveal slightly irreversible behavior at
temperatures below T_(N).

Shown in Fig. 9 are low-temperature specific-heat data for UPd₂Pb,
plotted as C/T vs T², for 0.5≪T≪10 K. The solid line represents a
least-squares fit of the data to the equation C(T) = γT + βT³, with γ=98
mJ/mol K² and β=3.8 mJ/mol K⁴. The value of the Sommerfeld coefficient γ
is at least an order of magnitude larger than that of a normal metal,
although it is small compared to prototypical heavy-fermion compounds
for which 0.25≤γ≪1 J/mol K^(2, 12) However, the U ions are
antiferromagnetically ordered at these temperatures, which might be
responsible for the observed values of the coefficients γ and β.
Measurements of C(T) to higher temperatures will give information about
the ordering, as well as a measure of γ above T_(N).

## Conclusion

Single crystals of RPd₂Pb with very small amounts of impurity phases
were fabricated. Measurements of magnetic susceptibility revealed bulk
superconductivity for R =Sc, Y, Tm, Yb, and Lu, with T_(c)≈2-3 K. These
values are lower than expected; a T_(c) value as high as 4.76 K was
previously reported for YPd₂Pb. The discrepancy is most likely due to
differences in sample composition and/or quality. In particular, the
T_(c)’s of these Heusler compounds are known to be sensitive to exact
stoichiometry; off-stoichiometric polycrystalline samples might yield
higher T_(c) values. The magnetic rare-earth ions more
antiferromagnetically with very low Neel temperatures T_(N)≤4.5 K. Both
T_(N) and $\theta_{\rm CW}$ scale approximately with the de Gennes
factor. It is unlikely that the Tm ions in TmPd₂Pb have a nonmagnetic
ground state, making it more surprising that it is superconducting.
ThPd₂Pb was not superconducting above 1.8 K. The Heusler compound UPd₂Pb
orders antiferromagnetically below 35 K, and displays many
characteristics of a low effective mass heavy-fermion material.

## Acknowledgments

This research was supported by NSF Grant No. DMR 91-07698. J.H.
acknowledges support from DAAD. Some of the equipment used in this
research was part of the UCSD Center for Interface and Materials
Sciences, provided by a grant from the Keck Foundation.

## References

* [1] H. A. Kierstead, B. D. Dunlap, S. K. Malik, A. M. Umarji, and G.
K. Shenoy, Phys. Rev. B **32**, 135 (1985). * [2] C. Rossel, M. S.
Torikachvili, J. W. Chen, and M. B. Maple, Solid State Commun. **60**,
563 (1986). * [3] A. M. Umarji, S. K. Malik, and G. K. Shenoy, Solid
State Commun. **53**, 1029 (1985). * [4] B. W. Roberts, J. Phys. Chem.
Ref. Data **5**, 581 (1976). * [5] J. H. Van Vleck, J. Chem. Phys.
**9**, 85 (1941); T. Nagamiya, Prog. Theor. Phys. **6**, 342 (1951).

Figure 9: Low-temperature specific heat C, plotted as C/T vs T², for
UPd₂Pb. The solid line represents a linear fit of the relation C/T = γ +
βT², as described in the text. The large value of the Sommerfeld
constant γ is suggestive of heavy-fermion behavior.

* [8] J. H. Van Vleck, J. Phys. Radium **12**, 262 (1951). * [9] M. J.
Johnson and R. N. Shelton, Solid State Commun. **52**, 839 (1984). *
[10] S. K. Malik, A. M. Umarij, and G. K. Shenoy, Phys. Rev. B **31**,
6971 (1985). * [11] K. R. Lea, M. J. M. Leask, and W. P. Wolf, J. Phys.
Chem. Solids **23**, 1381 (1962). * [12] Z. Fisk, D. W. Hess, C. J.
Pethick, D. Pines, J. L. Smith, J. D. Thompson, and J. O. Willis,
Science **239**, 33 (1988).
