# Upper critical magnetic field of the heavy-fermion superconductor UPt3

J. W. Chen, S. E. Lambert, and M. B. Maple

Department of Physics and Institute for Pure and Applied Physical
Sciences,

University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, California 92093

Z. Fisk, J. L. Smith, G. R. Stewart, and J. O. Willis

Los Alamos National Laboratory,

Los Alamos, New Mexico 87545

16 February 1984; revised manuscript received 4 June 1984

###### Abstract

The longitudinal and transverse upper critical magnetic fields H_(c)¹and
H_(c)² as a function of temperature T of a single-crystal specimen of
the heavy-fermion superconductor UPt3 were measured resistively with the
current flowing along the hexagonal c axis. The slope of the linear part
of the H_(c)¹(T) curve near the superconducting transition temperature
T_(c) = 0.52 K equals 63 kOe/K, from which a zero-temperature
superconducting coherence length ξ₀∼120 A can be inferred. An analysis
using previously reported specific-heat data yields an effective mass
∼200 times the free-electron mass and a value of ξ₀∼170 A. The
electrical resistivity between T_(c) and 8 K varies as T^(*)with
n = 1.6 ± 0.1.

The heavy-fermion superconductors CeCu₃Si₂ (Ref. [1]) and UBe₁₃ (Ref.
[2]) have attracted a great deal of attention because of their
remarkable normal- and superconducting-state properties. Valence
fluctuation or Kondo lattice types of anomalies [3, 4] occur in the
normal-state properties of both materials. The magnetic susceptibility,
which displays local moment behavior at high temperature, approaches a
constant value as T → 0 K, indicating that the ground state is
nonmagnetic [5, 6]. In particular, both compounds have enormous values
of the electronic specific-heat coefficient γ of ∼ 1 J/g atom K [2] from
which effective masses  ∼ 200m_(e), where m_(e) is the mass of a free
electron, have been estimated [2, 7]. The superconducting-state
properties are characterized by low values of the superconducting
transition temperature T_(c)≤1 K [1, 2] as well as relatively large
values of the upper critical magnetic field H_(c2) and its initial slope
at T_(c), (− dH_(c2)/dT)_(T_(c))[7, 8]. Another compound U₄Fe has
unusual properties [9] that may place it somewhere in a continuum
between heavy-fermion and conventional superconductivity.

The compound UPt3 has recently been reported to exhibit bulk
superconductivity with a T_(c) of 0.54 K [10]. There are certain
similarities between the properties of UPt3 and those of the
heavy-fermion superconductors CeCu₃Si₂ and UBe₁₃, as well as some
differences. One of these differences is in the temperature dependence
of the electrical resistivity ρ. For UPt3, ρ increases monotonically
with increasing temperature with substantial negative curvature [10],
while for both CeCu₃Si₂ (Ref. [5]) and UBe₁₃[2], ρ first increases,
passes through a maximum at a few K, and then decreases with increasing
temperature. A more significant difference may be the presence of spin
fluctuations in UPt3, the existence of which has been inferred from the
temperature dependences of the magnetic susceptibility [11, 12] and
low-temperature specific heat [10, 12]. Reports of a maximum in the
magnetic susceptibility near 19 K (Ref. [12]) and a temperature
dependence of the electrical resistance near T_(c) that is close to T²
(Ref. [10]) are consistent with this possibility. In addition, recent
low-temperature specific-heat measurements in the normal state reveal a
large electronic γT term with γ = 450 mJ/g atom K [2] and a contribution
that has been attributed to spin fluctuations [13, 14, 15] of the form
T³ln (T/T_(sd)), where T_(sd) is the spin fluctuation temperature [10].
In this paper we report resistive measurements of the longitudinal and
transverse upper critical magnetic fields H_(c)¹and H_(c)²as a function
of temperature of a single-crystal specimen of UPt3 with the current
flowing in the direction of the hexagonal c axis.

The single-crystal specimen of UPt3 used in this investigation was
prepared in a manner previously described [10]. A ³He-⁴He dilution
refrigerator was employed to attain temperatures as low as 80 mK which
were determined from a 100-Ω Speer carbon resistance thermometer that
was calibrated against the magnetic susceptibility of cerium magnesium
nitrate. The ac electrical resistance R was measured by means of a
four-lead technique at 16 Hz on a needle-shaped UPt3 specimen with the
current flowing along the hexagonal c axis. The current density was ∼ 2
A/cm². A superconducting solenoid was used to produce magnetic fields as
high as 20 kOe which were applied parallel or perpendicular to the
current direction in separate experiments. The T_(c) in zero and applied
magnetic fields was defined as the temperature at which R decreased to
one-half of its value extrapolated from the normal state.

Shown in Fig. 1 are R vs T data in zero magnetic field below 8 K. The
resistance is still changing with temperature all the way down to T_(c)
and can be described by the expression R = R₀ + AT^(*) with R₀ = 0.16Ω,
A = 0.25Ω/K*, and n = 1.6 ± 0.1 for 0.54 K  ≤ T≤ 8 K. The resistance
ratio RR = R (296 K)/R(1 K) ≃ 150 indicates that the UPt3 crystal is of
high quality. Because of the somewhat irregular shape of the faceted
UPt3 crystal, its geometrical factor could not be determined with high
accuracy. However, within an error of about 40

The longitudinal and transverse critical magnetic fields H_(c)²and
H_(c)²as a function of temperature are shown in Fig.

2. Systematic errors in the temperature due to the magnetoresistance of
the carbon thermometer [16] are estimated to be ≈ 15 mK for all fields.
The reduction of the transverse upper critical magnetic field H_(e2) by
the demagnetizing field is estimated to be ∼ 0.1

Disregarding the positive curvature near T_(e), the linear portion of
the H_(e2) vs T curve has a slope (− dH_(e2)/dT)_(T_(e)) = 63 kOe/K
which can be used to estimate the superconducting coherence length at T
= 0 K, ξ₀. First, the zero-temperature orbital critical magnetic field
$H_{e2}^{\rm c}(0)$ can be determined from the weak-coupling formula
[17]

$$H_{e2}^{\rm c}(0)=0.693[\left(-\,dH_{e2}/dT\right)_{T_{e}}]T_{e}\ \ ,$$
(1)

which gives $H_{e2}^{\rm c}(0)\sim 22.7$ kOe for T_(e) = 0.52 K. This
value can then be used to calculate ξ₀ by means of the expression [18]

$$H_{e2}^{\rm c}(0)=\frac{\Phi_{0}}{2\pi\xi\bar{\xi}}\ \ ,$$
(2)

where Φ₀= ch/2e = 2.07 × 10⁻⁷ Oe cm² is the flux quantum. The
calculation gives ξ₀ = 120 A.

The paramagnetic limiting field at T = 0 K, H_(p0), in the absence of
spin-orbit scattering is given by the relation [19, 20]

H_(p0)(0) = 18.4T_(e)(kOe)  ,
(3)

which for T_(e) = 0.52 K yields H_(p0) = 9.57 kOe. Presumably,
spin-orbit scattering is responsible for the fact that H_(e2)(0) exceeds
H_(p0) by nearly a factor of 2.

The coherence length can also be obtained from the equation [18]

$$\xi_{0}\!-\!0.18\frac{\hbar\nu_{F}}{k_{B}T_{e}}\ \ .$$
(4)

However, it is first necessary to estimate the Fermi velocity ν_(F) of
UPt₃ which can be done in the following way. Assuming a spherical Fermi
surface, the Fermi wave vector k_(F) can be calculated from

$$k_{F}\!=\!\left(\frac{3\pi^{2}Z}{\Omega}\right)^{1/3}\ \ ,$$
(5)

where Z is the number of electrons per unit cell and Ω the unit cell
volume. As a rough approximation, we assume that the heavy electrons are
contributed by trivalent U atoms so that Z = 6 since there are two UPt₃
formula units per unit cell. From the hexagonal lattice parameters a =
5.764 A and c = 4.899 A for the UPt₃ specimen we investigated, we find Ω
= 1.41 × 10⁻²² cm³. We then obtain k_(F) = 1.08 × 10⁸ cm⁻¹ from Eq. (5).
The effective mass m^(*) can be deduced from the relation

$$m^{*}\!=\!\frac{\hbar^{2}k\gamma}{\pi^{2}(Z/\Omega)\,k\bar{\xi}}\ \ ,$$
(6)

which gives m^(*) = 187m_(e), where m_(e) is the free-electron mass. By
means of the result

ν_(F) = k_(F)/m^(*)
(7)

we find ν_(F) = 6.67 × 10⁵ cm s⁻¹. Equation (4) then yields the value
ξ₀ = 176 A, which is in reasonable agreement with the value inferred
from H_(e2), considering the approximations that we have made.

A different method for estimating k_(F) starting from the

Figure 1: Electrical resistance R vs temperature of UPt₃ in zero applied
magnetic field. The solid line represents a fit of the equation
R = R₀ + A T^(*) with parameters $R_{\rm\phi}$, A, and n that are given
in the text. Shown in the inset are resistive superconducting transition
data in magnetic fields H of 0, 5, 10, and 15 kOe with H parallel to the
current I.

Figure 2: Upper critical field vs temperature data for UPt₃ with applied
field H parallel or perpendicular to the current I.

measured initial slope of H_(e2)(T) given in Ref. 7 results in
k_(F) = 9.5 × 10⁷ cm⁻¹, 88

The upper critical magnetic field measurements reported herein reveal
that there is substantial anisotropy in H_(e2)(T) and positive curvature
near T_(e) which is considerably more pronounced in $H_{e3}^{\rm c}$
than in $H_{e3}^{\rm c}$. Considerably less positive curvature in
H_(e2)(T) near T_(e) has been observed for CeCu₂Si₃,[7] and none at all
for UBe₁₃.[8] The origin of the positive curvature in H_(e2)(T) near
T_(e) in UPt₃ is not presently understood. Analysis of the H_(e2) vs T
data yields an estimate for ξ₀ of  ∼ 120 A. Within the approximations
that we have made, this value is consistent with an effective mass for
UPt₃ of  ∼ 200m_(e).

It is a pleasure to thank Professor R. R. Hake, Professor L. J. Sham,
and Professor J. W. Wilkins for useful discussions. The research at the
University of California at San Diego (UCSD) and Los Alamos National
Laboratory was carried out under the auspices of the U.S. Department of
Energy under Contract No. DE-AT03-76ER70227 at UCSD.

## References

* [1] F. Steglich, J. Aarts, C. D. Bredl, W. Lieke, D. Meschede, and W.
Franz, Phys. Rev. Lett. **43**, 1892 (1979). * [2] H. R. Ott, H.
Rudigier, Z. Fisk, and J. L. Smith, Phys. Rev. Lett. **50**, 1955
(1983). * [3] See, for example, J. M. Lawrence, P. S. Riseborough, and
R. D. Parks, Rep. Prog. Phys. **44**, 1 (1981), and references cited
therein. * [4] See, for example, M. B. Maple, L. E. DeLong, and B. C.
Sales, in _Handbook on the Physics and Chemistry of the Rare Earths_,
edited by K. A. Gschneidner, Jr. and L. Eyring (North-Holland,
Amsterdam, 1978), p. 797-846. * [5] B. C. Sales and R. Viswanathan, J.
Low Temp. Phys. **23**, 449 (1976). * [6] H. R. Ott, H. Rudigier, Z.
Fisk, and J. L. Smith, in _Moment Formation in Solids_, proceedings of
the NATO/Canadian Association of Physicists Institute, edited by W. J.
L. Buyers (Plenum, New York, in press). * [7] U. Rauschschwalbe, W.
Lieke, C. D. Bredl, F. Steglich, J. Aarts, K. M. Martini, and A. C.
Mota, Phys. Rev. Lett. **49**, 1448, 1960(E) (1982). * [8] M. B. Maple,
J. W. Chen, S. E. Lambert, Z. Fisk, J. L. Smith, and H. R. Ott
(unpublished). * [9] L. E. DeLong, J. G. Huber, K. N. Yang, and M. B.
Maple, Phys. Rev. Lett. **51**, 312 (1983). * [10] G. R. Stewart, Z.
Fisk, J. O. Willis, and J. L. Smith, Phys. Rev. Lett. **52**, 679
(1984). * [11] W.-D. Schneider and C. Laubschat, Phys. Rev. B **23**,
997 (1981). * [12] P. H. Frings, J. M. Franse, F. R. deBoer, and A.
Menovsky, J. Magn. Magn. Mater. **31-34**, 240 (1983). * [13] S. Doniach
and S. Englsberg, Phys. Rev. Lett. **17**, 750 (1966). * [14] W. F. Berk
and J. R. Schrieffer, Phys. Rev. Lett. **17**, 433 (1966). * [15] R. J.
Trainor, M. B. Brodsky, and H. V. Culbert, Phys. Rev. Lett. **34**, 1019
(1975). * [16] L. Gordy and H. Fritzsche, J. Appl. Phys. **41**, 3456
(1964). * [17] R. R. Hake, Appl. Phys. Lett. **10**, 186 (1967). * [18]
See, for example, M. Tinkham, _Introduction to Superconductivity_
(McGraw-Hill, New York, 1975). * [19] A. M. Clogston, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**9**, 261 (1962). * [20] B. S. Chandrasekhar, Appl. Phys. Lett. **1**,
7 (1962).
