Continuous critical temperature enhancement with gradual hydrogen doping
in LaFeAsO_(0.85)H_(x) (_x_ = 0-0.85)

Yanfeng Guo,^(1, *) Xia Wang,^(1, 2) Jun Li,^(1, 2) Ying Sun,³ Yoshihiro
Tsujimoto,³ Alexei A. Belik,³ Yoshitaka Matsushita,⁴ Kazunari
Yamaura,^(1, 2, †) and Eiji Takayama-Muromachi^(2, 3)

¹Superconducting Properties Unit, National Institute for Materials
Science, 1-1 Namiki, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 305-0044, Japan

²Department of Chemistry, Graduate School of Science, Hokkaido
University, Sapporo, Hokkaido 060-0810, Japan

³International Center for Materials Nanoarchitectonics (WPI-MANA),
National Institute for Materials Science, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 305-0044,
Japan

⁴NIMS Beamline Station at SPring-8, National Institute for Materials
Science, 1-1-1 Kouto, Sayo-cho, Sayo-gun, Hyogo 679-5148, Japan

###### Abstract

A gradual increase of the hydrogen content in LaFeAsO_(0.85)H_(x) (_x_ =
0-0.85) resulted in a continuous _T${}_{\rm c}$_ enhancement behavior.
_T${}_{\rm c}$_ increased significantly from ∼26 K (_x_ = 0) to a value
of ∼35.5 K (_x_ = 0.85). As the _T${}_{\rm c}$_ was enhanced, structure
analysis revealed a coupled gradual contraction of the lattice constants
and a reduction of the As-Fe-As bond angle towards the ideal value of
109.5^(∘) of the regular tetrahedron. Since the Hall coefficient
measurement detected no substantial change in the carrier number,
optimization of structural parameters rather than carrier doping is
likely to have played the leading role in the _T${}_{\rm c}$_
enhancement, which could provide an important clue to the strong
correlation between superconductivity and the structural parameters of
iron-based superconductors. Some key phenomenological parameters,
including the lower and the upper critical magnetic fields, critical
current density, the density of states at the Fermi level of
hydrogen-free and substituted samples, were also compared based on the
magnetic and electrical characterizations, but no substantial changes
were found to be associated with the hydrogen addition.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.86.054523

PACS number(s): 74.70.Xa, 74.62.Bf, 74.62.-c, 74.25.F-

## 1 Introduction

Iron pnictides show superconductivity after suppression of their
antiferromagnetic order, [1] through chemical substitution [2,3] or the
application of pressure, [4,5] with a critical temperature
(_T${}_{\rm c}$_) as high as 55 K, even rivaling doped cuprates. [6] A
striking feature of iron superconductors is that their _T${}_{\rm c}$_’s
show a strong dependence on specific materials. For example, the maximum
_T${}_{\rm c}$_ of the so-called 1111 _Ln_FeAsO (_Ln_ = rare earth)
system changes with diverse _Ln_ without breaking structural symmetry,
suggesting a crucial role of subtle variations in lattice parameters.
More specifically, with the monotonic decrease of the lattice constant a
for _Ln_ = La → Sm, _T${}_{\rm c}$_ gets a boost from ∼26 K to ∼55 K,
[7,8] while a similar response was also observed in (La, Y)FeAsO_(0.6)
(∼20 K →∼43.1 K) [9] and (La, Na)FeAsO_(0.85)F_(0.15) (∼26 K →∼30.9 K)
[10]; conversely, when a is almost saturated for _Ln_ = Nd → Dy,
_T${}_{\rm c}$_ changes only negligibly. [7] In addition, a regular FeAs
tetrahedron distortion with empirical value of As-Fe-As bond angle (α)
approaching 109.5^(∘) has also been found to favor a higher
_T${}_{\rm c}$_. [11, 12, 13, 14] The application of pressure or
isovalent substitution of P for As can also induce superconductivity,
even without carrier doping. [4,5,15] These facts indicate that the
crystal structure plays at least a role similar to carrier doping in
establishing the superconducting state in iron pnictides. In the
five-band model, parameters including both a and α are thought to be
closely related with the pnictogen height, which probably serves as the
major factor affecting _T${}_{\rm c}$_, through controlling the
multiband structure or determining the orbital fluctuations by adjusting
the electron-phonon coupling strength. [16,17] The former conjecture was
experimentally proved by a recent angle-resolved photoemission
spectroscopy study on PrFeAsO_(0.7). [18] It is notable that the
spin-fluctuations have been perceived to play an important role for the
superconductivity in iron pnictides, whereas the mechanism based on the
electron-phonon coupling fails to explain the superconductivity since it
is too weak in this system.

Very recently, the _T${}_{\rm c}$_ of LaFeAsO_(0.60) (∼28 K) was
observed to be significantly enhanced even up to ∼35 K by incorporation
of hydrogen atoms, for example LaFeAsO_(0.60)H_(0.60), [19] being
reminiscent of the case in (La,Y)FeAsO_(0.6) and
(La,Na)FeAsO_(0.85)F_(0.15). [9,10] Nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR)
characterization indicated that hydrogen atoms in the H⁻ form,
intercalated at the interstitial sites between the La and Fe sites, play
a role in optimizing the structural parameters, possibly accounting for
the _T${}_{\rm c}$_ enhancement. [20] However, hydrogen incorporation in
SmFeAsO_(1 − x)H_(x) (_x_ ∼ 0.2) induced only a comparable
_T${}_{\rm c}$_ of 55 K, with those of SmFeAs(O,F) or SmFeAsO_(1 − δ).
[21] Thus, an indirect doping effect with hydrogen ions supplying
additional electrons into the FeAs layers seems reasonable: (O²→ H⁻ +
e⁻¹) was proposed, as in the case of CeFeAsO_(1 − x)H_(x). [22] However,
the comparable _T${}_{\rm c}$_ of CeFeAsO_(1 − x)H_(x) (_x_ = 0.25, 48
K) and CeFeAsO_(0.65)H_(0.65) (48 K) is much higher than the record
created by fluorine doped CeFeAs(O,F) (41 K), [23] probably implying
that the _T${}_{\rm c}$_ in hydrogen-doped compounds is enhanced.
Reviewing earlier reports on moisture-induced superconductivity in
SrFe₂As₂ thin film (_T${}_{\rm c}$_∼ 25 K), FeTe_(0.8)S_(0.2)
(_T${}_{\rm c}$_∼ 7.2 K), and NaFeAs (_T${}_{\rm c}$_∼ 25 K), [24, 25,
26] the resulting superconductivity was perceived to be produced by
foreign atoms in a possible form of H₂O, OH, H, or O molecules/ions
accommodated at the interstitial sites; the debate between carrier
doping and structural optimization has, however, continued. Recent
density functional calculations have determined that the hydrogen atoms
are stably located close to the Fe atoms at the interstitial sites,
while the Fermi level was also slightly shifted upward due to band
filling with hydrogen doping.[27] Based on the available evidences, it
is hard to judge the answer to this issue at present; thus, continuous
efforts aimed at yielding in-depth insights are certainly desirable.

Here we report a study of $T_{\rm c}$ enhancement in LaFeAsO_(0.85)H_(x)
(x = 0-0.85) with systematic hydrogen doping. The $T_{\rm c}$ increased
almost linearly with the increase in hydrogen content from ∼26 K for x =
0 to a final value of ∼35.5 K for x = 0.85. The continuous $T_{\rm c}$
enhancement was strongly correlated with a gradual optimization of the
lattice parameters upon the hydrogen incorporation, while neither the
carrier number nor the superconducting parameters show any substantial
change.

## II Experimental

The sample synthesis procedure of LaFeAsO_(0.85)H_(x) (x = 0.15, 0.35,
0.55, 0.70, and 0.85) in a flat-belt-type high-pressure apparatus was
similar to those reported elsewhere.[28, 29] The starting materials were
laboratory-made LaAs, Fe₂O₃ (3N, Furuuchi Chem. Co.), La(OH)₃ (3N,
Wako), As (5N, High Purity Chem.), and Fe powders (3N, 100 mesh, Rare
Metallic Co.). Before use, La(OH)₃ was dried at 200 ^(∘)C in flowing N₂
for 3 h. Each starting mixture was sealed in a golden capsule with an
h-BN (hexagonal born nitride) tube inner and then heated on the
high-pressure apparatus for 2 h at an elevated temperature of 1300 ^(∘)C
under a pressure of 6 GPa.

The phase purity of the product was examined by a powder x-ray
diffraction (XRD) method in a Rigaku diffractometer (RINT2200V/PC) with
Cu-Kα radiation (λ = 1.5418 A) in the 2θ range from 5^(∘) to 100^(∘),
with a step size of 2^(∘). The structure of the samples was further
investigated by a synchrotron x-ray diffraction (SXRD) method, conducted
at λ = 0.65298 A in a large Debye-Scherer camera installed on the BL15XU
beam line of Spring-8.[30] The Rietveld analysis was carried out using
the RIETAN-2000 program.[31]

Apart from hydrogen, the composition of La, Fe, and As in
LaFeAsO_(0.85)H_(x) was examined by the electron probe microanalysis
(EPMA, JXA-8500F, JEOL) method, and the result is illustrated in
Table 1. A reliable evaluation of the exact hydrogen amount was
performed by thermogravimetry and mass spectroscopy (TG-MS) in a Bruker
TG-DTA 2000SA/MS 9610 apparatus, employing a similar method to that in
Ref. [21]. The LaFeAsO_(0.85)H_(x) was slowly heated up to 800 ^(∘)C in
the protection of high-purity Ar, and the evaluated hydrogen content
released from each sample is also listed in Table 1, normalized to the
actual molar Fe content of each sample. It is clear that the evaluated
values are rather close to those expected from the decomposition of
LaFeAsO_(0.85)H_(0.85) (LaFeAsO_(0.85)H_(x)→ LaFeAsO_(0.85) + x/2H₂↑).
It should be noted that the TG-MS result is the hydrogen content in the
final product rather than that incorporated in the lattice of
LaFeAsO_(0.85)H_(x). The exact evaluation of hydrogen content was also
accomplished with the aid of a phase purity check and EPMA analysis,
which is helpful in excluding other possible hydrogen sources from
impurities such as La(OH)₃. After the evaluation of the hydrogen
content, the oxygen content was also estimated with employing the
similar method as that described in Ref. [29].

The direct current (dc) magnetic susceptibility (χ) was measured in a
magnetic property measurement system (MPMS) from Quantum Design, under
both zero-field cooling (ZFC) and field cooling (FC) conditions in a 10
Oe magnetic field between 2 and 40 K. Isothermal magnetizations at
various temperatures below the $T_{\rm c}$ within the field range of ±2
kOe were also measured using MPMS. Data on the dc electrical resistivity
(ρ) were collected between 2 and 300 K with a constant gauge current of
0.2 mA in a physical properties measurement system (PPMS; Quantum
Design). A four-probe method was used, with platinum wires attached to
samples by silver paste. Specific heat capacity ($C_{\rm p}(T)$)
measurement was performed between 2 and 300 K using the same apparatus,
by adopting the typical relaxation-time method. The Hall coefficient
measurement in PPMS was carried out in the temperature range 50-300 K.

## III Results and Discussion

First, the relation between $T_{\rm c}$ and the nominal oxygen
deficiency content δ of the LaFeAsO_(1 − δ) series was established. As
shown in Figs. 1(a) and 1(b) by the ρ(T) and the $T_{\rm c}$ vs δ,
superconductivity emerges in a relatively wide window of δ = 0.08-0.28,
with the $T_{\rm c}$ running along a nearly dome-shaped trace with
respect to δ. The dome is slightly asymmetric. Aside from the optimal
point around δ = 0.15, that is, in the "overdoped" regime, $T_{\rm c}$
changes relatively slowly, since superconductivity still survives at
1 − δ = 0.72. In the "underdoped" regime, it degenerates more rapidly,
with $T_{\rm c}$ being almost completely suppressed even at 1 − δ =
0.92. The dome-shaped feature resembles those of other 1111- and

Table 3: Structure parameters of LaFeAsO_(0.85) (top) and
LaFeAsO_(0.85)H_(0.85) (bottom) determined by a synchrotron x-ray powder
diffraction data (λ = 0.65298 Å) at room temperature. Space group is
P4/mmm (no. 129) at origin choice 2, Z = 2. R factors were
$R_{\rm sp}=3.82$

system is almost optimized; it is rather difficult to improve it further
through hydrogen doping. In contrast, the parameters of La-1111 and
Ce-1111 systems are far from being optimized; thus, hydrogen doping can
precisely play that role. On the other hand, taking into account the
relation between $T_{\rm c}$ and the lattice constant a of some 1111
superconductors, as presented in Fig. 7, the values of a of the
hydrogen-doped LaFeAsO_(0.85)H${}_{\rm{z}}$, well as other key
parameters such as As-Fe-As bond angle, are located between Ce-1111
($T_{\rm c}$ = 38.5 K, a = 0.3995 nm)[7] and LaFeAsO_(0.85); hence their
$T_{\rm c}$ are just between them. For all the lattice parameters listed
in Table 3, the evolution tendency of the FeAs₄ tetrahedron of
LaFeAsO_(0.85)H${}_{\rm{z}}$ with the increase of hydrogen incorporation
is apparently toward an ideal distortion state, indicative of clear
structural optimization behavior.

In summary, the hydrogen addition in LaFeAsO_(0.85) was realized under
high-pressure conditions, which remarkably raises the critical
temperature $T_{\rm c}$ from 26 K gradually up to ∼35.5 K. The nearly
linearly increase of $T_{\rm c}$ with the hydrogen content was found to
be associated with a gradual optimization of lattice parameters, without
substantially changing the carrier concentrations, probably suggesting
that optimization of structural parameters rather than carrier doping is
the major reason. It is clearly consistent with the opinion in Ref. [16]
for interpreting the $T_{\rm c}$ enhancement in LaFeAsO_(0.60)H_(0.60)
rather than a carrier doping effect proposed in Refs. [21] and [22] for
both SmFeAs(O,H) and CeFeAs(O,H).[21, 22] Since there is a debate
between carrier doping and structure tuning as the source for
superconductivity in iron pnictides, it has been difficultl to establish
a solid picture as was done for cuprate superconductors. The results
reported herein provide helpful supporting data and clues to the study.
It could also be interesting to study how the magnetic
excitations/fluctuations with hydrogen-addition in such 1111 families
evolve, since the substitution seems to be involved in the
superconductivity mechanism. Moreover, the results could indicate an
effective direction in the search for new superconductors with a high
$T_{\rm c}$ by focusing on structural design.

###### Acknowledgements.

This research was supported in part by the World Premier International
Research Center from MEXT, Grants-in-Aid for Scientific Research
(22246083) from JSPS, the Funding Program for World-Leading Innovative
R&D on Science and Technology (FIRST Program) from JSPS, and the
Advanced Low Carbon Technology Research and Development Program (ALCA)
from JST.

## References

* [1] P. M. Shirage, K. Miyazawa, H. Kito, H. Eisaki, and A. Iyo, Phys.
Rev. B **78**, 172503 (2008). * [2] P. Rakash, S. J. Singh, J. Ahmed, S.
Patnaik, and A. K. Ganguli, Physica C **469**, 300 (2009). * [3] J.
Zhao, Q. Huang, C. de la Cruz, S. L. Li, J. W. Lynn, Y. Chen, M. A.
Green, G. F. Chen, G. Li, Z. Li, J. L. Luo, N. L. Wang, and P. C. Dai,
Nat. Mater. **7**, 953 (2008). * [4] C. H. Lee, A. Iyo, H. Eisaki, H.
Kito, M. T. Fernandez-Diaz, T. Ito, K. Kihou, H. Matsuhata, M. Braden,
and K. Yamada, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **77**, 083704 (2008). * [5] G.
Garbarino, R. Weht, A. Sow, A. Sulpice, P. Toulemonde, M. Alvarez-Murga,
P. Strobel, P. Bouvier, M. Mezouar, and M. Nunez-Regueiro, Phys. Rev. B
**84**, 024510 (2011). * [6] G. Garbarino, R. Weht, A. Sow, C. Lacroix,
A. Sulpice, M. Mezouar, X. Y. Zhu, F. Han, H. H. Wen, and M.
Nunez-Regueiro, Europhys. Lett. **96**, 57002 (2011). * [7] S. A.
Kimber, A. Kreyssig, Y.-Z. Zhang, H. H. Jeschke, R. Valenti, F.
Yokaichiya, E. Colombier, J. Q. Yan, T. C. Hansen, T. Chatterji, R. J.
McQueeney, P.C. Canfield, A. I. Goldman, and D. N. Argyriou, Nat. Mater.
**8**, 471 (2009). * [8] K. Kuroki, H. Usui, S. Onari, R. Arita, and H.
Aoki, Phys. Rev. B **79**, 224511 (2009).

Figure 7: (Color online) Relationship between the a-axis parameter and
$T_{\rm c}$ of LaFeAsO_(0.85)H${}_{\rm{z}}$ and LnFeAsO${}_{1-\rm{z}}$
(Ln = La, Dy, Tb, Gd, Sm, Nd, Pr, and Ce). The a parameters, except for
LaFeAsO_(0.85)H${}_{\rm{z}}$, are obtained from Refs. [7, 8, 19, 20].

* [17] T. Saito, S. Onari, and H. Kontani, Phys. Rev. B **82**, 144510
(2010). * [18] I. Nishi, M. Ishikado, S. Ideta, W. Malaeb, T. Yoshida,
A. Fujimori, Y. Kotani, M. Kubota, K. Ono, M. Yi, D. H. Lu, R. Moore,
Z.-X. Shen, A. Iyo, K. Kihou, H. Kito, H. Eisaki, S. Shamoto, and R.
Arita, Phys. Rev. B **84**, 014504 (2011). * [19] K. Miyazawa, S.
Ishida, K. Kihou, P. M. Shirage, M. Nakajima, C. H. Lee, H. Kito, Y.
Tomioka, T. Ito, H. Eisaki, H. Yamashita, H. Mukuda, K. Tokiwa, S.
Uchida, and A. Iyo, Appl. Phys. Lett. **96**, 072514 (2010). * [20] H.
Yamashita, H. Mukuda, M. Yashima, S. Furukawa, Y. Kitaoka, K. Miyazawa,
P. M. Shirage, H. Eisaki, and A. Iyo, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **79**, 103703
(2010). * [21] T. Hanna, Y. Muraba, S. Matsuishi, N. Igawa, K. Kodama,
S.-I. Shamoto, and H. Hosono, Phys. Rev. B **84**, 024521 (2011). * [22]
S. Matsuishi, T. Hanna, Y. Muraba, S. W. Kim, J. E. Kim, M. Takata,
S.-I. Shamoto, R. I. Smith, and H. Hosono, Phys. Rev. B **85**, 014514
(2012). * [23] G. F. Chen, Z. Li, D. Wu, G. Li, W. Z. Hu, J. Dong, P.
Zheng, J. L. Luo, and N. L. Wang, Phys. Rev. Lett. **100**, 247002
(2008). * [24] H. Hiramatsu, T. Katase, T. Kamiya, M. Hirano, and H.
Hosono, Phys. Rev. B **80**, 052501 (2009). * [25] Y. Mizuguchi, K.
Deguchi, S. Tsuda, T. Yamaguchi, and Y. Takano, Phys. Rev. B **81**,
214510 (2010). * [26] I. Todorov, D. Y. Chung, H. Claus, C. D.
Malliakas, A. Douvalis, and M. G. Kanatzidis, Chem. Mater. **22**, 3916
(2010). * [27] H. Nakamura and M. Machida, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **80**,
073705 (2011). * [28] Y. F. Guo, Y. G. Shi, S. Yu, A. A. Belik, K.
Yamaura, and E. Takayama-Muromachi, Physica C **70**, 5438 (2010). *
[29] Y. F. Guo, Y. G. Shi, S. Yu, A. A. Belik, Y. Matsushita, M. Tanaka,
Y. Katsuya, K. Kobayashi, I. Nowik, I. Felner, V. P. S. Awana, K.
Yamaura, and E. Takayama-Muromachi, Phys. Rev. B **82**, 054506
(2010). * [30] M. Tanaka, Y. Katsuya, and A. Yamamoto, Rev. Sci.
Instrum. **79**, 075106 (2008). * [31] F. Izumi and T. Ikeda, Mater.
Sci. Forum **321-324**, 198 (2000). * [32] Y. G. Shi, S. Yu, A. A.
Belik, Y. Matsushita, M. Tanaka, Y. Katsuya, K. Kobayashi, Y. Hata, H.
Yasuoka, K. Yamaura, and E. Takayama-Muromachi, Phys. Rev. B **80**,
104501 (2009). * [33] A. Marcinkova, D. A. M. Grist, I. Margiolaki, T.
C. Hansen, S. Margadonna, and Jan-Willem G. Bos, Phys. Rev. B **81**,
064511 (2010). * [34] A. S. Sefat, R. Jin, M. A. McGuire, B. C. Sales,
D. J. Singh, and D. Mandrus, Phys. Rev. Lett. **101**, 117004 (2008). *
[35] F. Han, X. Y. Zhu, P. Cheng, G. Mu, Y. Jia, L. Fang, Y. L. Wang, H.
Q. Luo, B. Zeng, B. Shen, L. Shan, C. Ren, and H.-H. Wen, Phys. Rev. B
**80**, 024506 (2009). * [36] R. Potten and D. Johrendt, Z. Naturforsch.
**63b**, 1135 (2008). * [37] P. Popovich, A. V. Boris, O. V. Dolgov, A.
A. Golubov, D. L. Sun, C. T. Lin, R. K. Kremer, and B. Keimer, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **105**, 027003 (2010). * [38] J. W. Stout and E. Catalano,
J. Chem. Phys. **23**, 2013 (1955). * [39] A. S. Sefat, A. Huq, M. A.
McGuire, R. Jin, B. C. Sales, D. Mandrus, L. M. D. Cranswick, P. W.
Stephens, and K. H. Stone, Phys. Rev. B **78**, 104505 (2008). * [40] A.
S. Sefat, M. A. McGuire, B. C. Sales, R. Jin, J. Y. Howe, and D.
Mandrus, Phys. Rev. B **77**, 174503 (2008). * [41] C. Kittel,
_Introduction to Solid State Physics_, 4th ed. (Wiley, New York,
1966). * [42] J. Karpinski, N. D. Zhigadlo, S. Katrych, Z. Bukowski, P.
Moll, S. Weyeneth, H. Keller, R. Puzniak, M. Tortello, D. Daghero, R.
Gonnelli, I. Maggio-Aprile, Y. Fasano, O. Fischer, K. Rogacki, and B.
Batlogg, Physica C **469**, 370 (2009). * [43] U. Welp, W. K. Kwok, G.
W. Crabtree, K. G. Vandervoort, and J. Z. Liu, Phys. Rev. Lett. **62**,
1908 (1989). * [44] P. Fournier and R. L. Greene, Phys. Rev. B **68**,
094507 (2003). * [45] W. Sumarin, S. Skanthakumar, J. W. Lynn, J. L.
Peng, Z. Y. Li, W. Jiang, and R. L. Greene, Phys. Rev. Lett. **68**,
2228 (1992). * [46] S. I. Vedeneev, A. G. M. Jansen, E. Haanappel, and
P. Wyder, Phys. Rev. B **60**, 12467 (1999). * [47] N. R. Werthamer, E.
Helfand, and P. C. Hohenberg, Phys. Rev. **147**, 295 (1966). * [48] D.
Berardan, L. D. Zhao, L. Pinsard-Gaudart, and N. Dragoe, Phys. Rev. B
**81**, 094506 (2010). * [49] F. Hunte, J. Jaroszynski, A. Gurevich, D.
C. Larbalestier, R. Jin, A. S. Sefat, M. A. McGuire, B. C. Sales, D. K.
Christen, and D. Mandrus, Nature (London) **453**, 903 (2008). * [50] G.
F. Chen, Z. Li, G. Li, J. Zhou, D. Wu, J. Dong, W. Z. Hu, P. Zheng, Z.
J. Chen, H. Q. Yuan, J. Singleton, J. L. Luo, and N. L. Wang, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **101**, 057007 (2008). * [51] J. P. Carbotte, Rev. Mod. Phys.
**62**, 1027 (1990). * [52] C. P. Bean, Rev. Mod. Phys. **36**, 31
(1964). * [53] M. Puti _et al._, Supercond. Sci. Technol. **23**, 034003
(2010). * [54] S. Lee _et al._, Appl. Phys. Lett. **95**, 212505
(2009). * [55] J. Ju, K. Huynha, J. Tanga, Z. F. Lia, M. Watahikia, K.
Satoa, H. Terasakib, E. Ohtanib, H. Takizawac, and K. Tanigakia, J.
Phys. Chem. Solids. **71**, 491 (2010). * [56] G. Garbarino, P.
Toulemonde, M. Alvarez-Murga, A. Sow, M. Mezouar, and M. Nunez-Regueiro,
Phys. Rev. B **78**, 100507(R) (2008). * [57] P. M. Shirage, K.
Miyazawa, K. Kihou, H. Kito, Y. Yoshida, Y. Tanaka, H. Eisaki, and A.
Iyo, Phys. Rev. Lett. **105**, 037004 (2010).
