# Hall-effect measurements of HgBa₂CaCu₂O_(6 + δ)

J. M. Harris, H. Wu, and N. P. Ong

Joseph Henry Laboratories of Physics, Princeton University, Princeton,
New Jersey 08544

R. L. Meng and C. W. Chu

Texas Center for Superconductivity at the University of Houston,
Houston, Texas 77204

5 April 1994

###### Abstract

The resistivity ρ and Hall coefficient R_(H) have been measured for
samples of the two-plane superconductor HgBa₂CaCu₂O_(6 + δ) (T_(c)∼ 124
K) with different annealing histories. The observed temperature
dependence R_(H)∼1/T (up to 470 K) matches the steep dependence
previously seen in 90-K YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) and indicates low-impurity
scattering. We find T-linear behavior for ρ in the lowest-resistivity
samples and confirm that cot θ_(H)∼T². These findings add support to
Anderson’s proposal of distinct longitudinal and transverse scattering
times.

pacs: + Footnote †: preprint: 1 AUGUST 1994-1

## I Introduction

The discovery of the Hg-Ba-Ca-Cu-O family of high-T_(c)
superconductors[1, 2] has stimulated many experiments including studies
of the crystal structure, susceptibility, pressure dependence of
T_(c),[3] resistivity, and thermopower,[4] but many important physical
properties, including the Hall effect, remain unexplored. In the study
of the normal state of cuprate superconductors, the Hall effect has
assumed a significance far beyond that of simply measuring the carrier
density because of its anomalous behavior.[5] The Hall coefficient R_(H)
is strongly temperature dependent up to high temperatures for motion of
the charge carriers in the CuO₂ planes. By contrast R_(H) is temperature
independent and negative for the geometry in which the Hall electric
field is directed along the c axis in the hole-type cuprates.[6]
Although R_(H) can be temperature dependent at low temperatures for
ordinary metals with dominant electron-phonon scattering, it saturates
to a constant value at temperatures above a small fraction of Θ_(D)
(0.2−0.4). The cuprates have Θ_(D)≈ 400 K, so another interpretation for
the in-plane R_(H) must be found.

Anderson has proposed that the Luttinger liquid theory provides a
natural explanation for anomalous features of transport data in
high-T_(c) superconductors.[7] Within this picture, spin-charge
separation in the CuO₂ planes results in two different relaxation rates,
a longitudinal or transport relaxation rate 1/τ_(H)∼T and a transverse
or Hall relaxation rate 1/τ_(H)∼T² (with a temperature-independent term
added to both rates when impurity scattering is present). The first
gives the well-known linear-T resistivity, while the second gives the
Hall angle dependence cot θ_(H)=αT². The Hall coefficient R_(H) is a
composite of the two more fundamental quantities and has a nominal 1/T
dependence since R_(H)=ρ_(xx)tanθ_(H)/B∝τ_(H)/τ_(tr).

The relationship cot θ_(H)=αT²+β^(′) (where β^(′) is proportional to the
impurity concentration) was initially found to hold for Zn-doped
YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) (YBCO) by Chien, Wang, and Ong.[8] It has subsequently
been confirmed for a large number of systems including the following:
optimally doped and underdoped YBCO (Ref. [6] and La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄
(LSCO) (Ref. [9]) up to 500 K; Pr-, Co-, and Fe-doped YBCO;[10, 11, 12]
untwined YBCO;[13] Fe-, Co-, Ni-, Zn-, and Ga-doped LSCO;[14] Y-, Ni-,
and Zn-doped Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O₈ (BSCCO);[15] and untwinned YBa₂Cu₄O₈ with
double CuO chains (except below 160 K when **J** is parallel to the
chain direction).[16] Systematic deviations have been reported in some
materials. In the electron-doped superconductor Nd_(2 − x)Ce_(x)CuO₄,
the Hall angle can be fit to cot θ_(H)=A+BT²+CT⁴.[17] Also, deviations
have been noted for overdoped LSCO. On the whole, the T² dependence has
been found to be as robust as the well-known linear-T resistivity and is
a hallmark of the normal state of the cuprates.

In this paper we report measurements of ρ and R_(H) on the double CuO₂
layer compound HgBa₂CaCu₂O_(6 + δ) (Hg-1212) as a function of
temperature (up to 470 K) and oxygen annealing. We also test the
cot θ_(H)=αT² rule and compare our results with Hall-effect data from
other cup-rate superconductors.

## II Experimental details

Hg-1212 is a member of the homologous series
HgBa₂Ca_(n − 1)Cu_(n)O_(2n + 2 + δ) with n= 2, indicating two tightly
coupled CuO₂ planes per unit cell. The preparation of polycrystalline
Hg-1212 samples has been described in detail by Meng _et al.[18]_ The
sample purity is 85

Hall-effect and resistivity measurements were carried out in a 14 T
superconducting magnet using two lock-in amplifiers synchronized at 16
Hz with J   0.5 A/cm2. The longitudinal and transverse voltages were
found to be linear in current and magnetic field. We reversed the
magnetic field at each temperature by rotating the sample 180^(∘) to
cancel the lead misalignment. The sample was carefully isolated from the
liquid-helium bath using 15 layers of aluminized mylar so temperatures
to 550 K could be reached. The sample or contacts became slightly
unstable at high temperatures, however, limiting reproducible
measurements of resistivity to 420 K and Hall effect to 470 K. (The
Hall-effect limit is slightly higher because the quick field reversal
eliminates slow, uniform drifts.) Careful temperature control was
essential since the measured Hall angles were as small as 3 x 10-5 rad.
Each of the points above 300 K is the average of several readings.

## III Results and Discussion

The magnitude and temperature dependence of the resistivity showed
considerable variation from sample to sample and with different
annealing conditions as shown in Fig. 1. The magnitude of the
resistivity in these polycrystalline materials is, of course, increased
by a considerable factor over its intrinsic value by random orientation
of grains, grain boundaries, and impurities. Samples A and B were cut
from the same piece of ceramic and annealed at 300 degC in oxygen for 14
and 1.5 h, respectively, while sample C was annealed for less than 1 h.
Although oxygen annealing initially raises the T_(c) of as-grown
samples, it appears that further annealing increases the resistivity and
introduces curvature into the resistivity versus temperature curve. Meng
_et al._ reported a similar degradation in resistivity curves upon
repeated annealing.[22] They attributed this to an insulating phase
forming in the grain boundaries during brief exposures of the samples to
atmospheric humidity or to Hg loss during the 300 degC annealing. In
light of these findings, we expect that the intrinsic in-plane
resistivity is linear in temperature with zero intercept, behavior which
sample C closely approximates.

The Hall coefficient R_(H) is positive (hole-like) and strongly
temperature dependent up to the highest temperature measured (470 K). It
can be fit to γ /T quite accurately in both samples A and B as shown in
Fig. 2. R_(H) is essentially identical for the two samples, which is
surprising since their resistivities differ by a factor of 2. This
indicates that R_(H) is much less sensitive to grain boundaries,
inhomogeneities, and impurities than ρ. Previous experience on
high-T_(c) ceramics[5] and theoretical calculations[23] indicate that
R_(H) should be within 10

Figure 1: The temperature dependence of the resistivity ρ for samples A,
B, and C of polycrystalline Hg-1212. The samples were annealed in
flowing oxygen at 300 °C for 14, 1.5, and < 1 h, respectively.

Figure 2: The temperature dependence of the Hall coefficient R_(H) in
Hg-1212 for samples A and B. The data can be fit accurately to γ /T as
shown by the solid line. The magnitude and temperature dependence of
R_(H) is the same for both samples in spite of their different
resistivities (see Fig. 1).

The observed 1/T temperature dependence is well known from 90 K YBCO,
while LSCO and BSCCO approach this steep dependence for very pure
samples. It has long been known that impurities suppress the temperature
dependence of R_(H) in the cuprates. The suppression follows naturally
from the form ${\rm cot}\theta_{H}\!=\!\alpha T^{2}\!+\!\beta^{\prime}$
since $R_{H}\!=\!\rho/B\,{\rm cot}\theta_{H}$ becomes less temperature
dependent as the impurity term β^(′) increases. Thus, the steep
temperature dependence of R_(H) in YBCO is related to β^(′) being
approximately zero. As we show next, Hg-1212 is also a clean system in
the sense that the impurity scattering term β^(′) is quite small.

The Hall-effect data are plotted in terms of the Hall angle θ_(H) in
Fig. 3. Anderson’s relation
${\rm cot}\theta_{H}\!=\!\alpha T^{2}\!+\!\beta^{\prime}$ is found to
hold, with small deviations in sample A resulting from ρ being slightly
sublinear in T. As we noted above, deviations from ρ ∝ T seem to reflect
slight sample degradation rather than an intrinsic effect. A
least-squares fit gives the parameters for samples A and B as α = 0.186,
β^(′) = 2020 and α = 0.0891, β^(′) = 337, respectively. The ratio of
β^(′)/α = 3780 for sample B is smaller than that of any cuprate
superconductor other than YBCO. The small ratio indicates that the
doping process of adding oxygen to the Hg layers introduces little
disorder for electronic transport in the CuO₂ planes.

## IV Conclusions

Normal-state transport measurements of longitudinal resistivity and Hall
coefficient were performed on polycrystalline Hg-1212 samples with
different annealing times. These measurements strongly resemble results
obtained on other high-T_(c) families, and are especially similar to
optimally doped YBCO. Specifically, we observe the temperature
dependences ρ ∼ T, R_(H) ∼ 1/T, and ${\rm cot}\theta_{H}\!\sim\!T^{2}$.
The temperature dependence of R_(H) is as steep as any seen so far in
the cuprates, and it is indicative of low-impurity scattering. The
strikingly different temperature dependences of ρ and θ_(H) provide
further evidence for non-Fermi-liquid transport and constitute a test
for theories of the normal state.

###### Acknowledgements.

We thank J. Clayhold for a useful discussion. This research is supported
by the Office of Naval Research (Contract No. N00014-90-J-1013.MOD P4).

## References

* [1] S. N. Putilin, E. V. Antipov, O. Chmaissem, and M. Marezio, Nature
**362**, 226 (1993). * [2] A. Schilling, M. Cantoni, J. D. Guo, and H.
R. Ott, Nature **363**, 56 (1993). * [3] C. W. Chu, L. Gao, F. Chen, Z.
J. Huang, R. L. Meng, and Y. Y. Xue, Nature **365**, 323 (1993). * [4]
Y. T. Ren, J. Clayhold, F. Chen, Z. J. Huang, X. D. Qiu, Y. Y. Sun, R.
L. Meng, Y. Y. Xue, and C. W. Chu, Physica C **217**, 6 (1993). * [5] N.
P. Ong, in _Physical Properties of High Temperature Superconductors Vol.
II_, edited by D. M. Ginsberg (World Scientific, Singapore, 1990); Y.
Iye, in _Physical Properties of High Temperature Superconductors Vol.
III_, edited by D. M. Ginsberg (World Scientific, Singapore, 1992). *
[6] J. M. Harris, Y. F. Yan, and N. P. Ong, Phys. Rev. B **46**, 14 293
(1992); (unpublished). * [7] P. W. Anderson, Phys. Rev. Lett. **67**,
2092 (1991). * [8] T. R. Chien, Z. Z. Wang, and N. P. Ong, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **67**, 2088 (1991). * [9] H. Y. Hwang, B. Batlogg, H. Takagi, H.
L. Kao, J. Kwo, R. J. Cava, J. J. Krajewski, and W. F. Peck, Jr.
(unpublished). * [10] W. Jiang, J. L. Peng, S. J. Hagen, and R. L.
Greene, Phys. Rev. B **46**, 8694 (1992). * [11] A. Carrington, A. P.
Mackenzie, C. T. Lin, and J. R. Cooper, Phys. Rev. Lett. **69**, 2855
(1992). * [12] M. D. Lan, J. Z. Liu, Y. X. Jia, Lu Zhang, and R. N.
Shelton, Phys. Rev. B **49**, 580 (1994). * [13] J. P. Rice, J.
Giapintzakis, D. M. Ginsberg, and J. M. Michel, Phys. Rev. B **44**, 10
158 (1991). * [14] G. Xiao, P. Xiong, and M. Cieplak, Phys. Rev. B
**46**, 8687 (1992). * [15] C. Kendziora, D. Mandrus, L. Mihaly, and L.
Forro, Phys. Rev. B **46**, 14 297 (1992). * [16] B. Bucher, P. Steiner,
J. Karpinski, E. Kaldis, and P. Wachter, Phys. Rev. Lett. **70**, 2012
(1993). * [17] W. Jiang, J. L. Peng, Z. Y. Li, and R. L. Greene, Phys.
Rev. B **47**, 8151 (1993). * [18] R. L. Meng, L. Beauvais, X. N. Zhang,
Z. J. Huang, Y. Y. Sun, Y. Y. Xue, and C. W. Chu, Physica C **216**, 21
(1993). * [19] Q. Huang, J. W. Lynn, R. L. Meng, and C. W. Chu, Physica
C **218**, 356 (1993). * [20] E. V. Antipov, J. J. Capponi, C.
Chaillout, O. Chmaissem, S.

Figure 3: The Hall angle data for samples A and B plotted as
${\rm cot}\theta_{H}\!\ (=\!\rho_{xx}/B\!R_{H})$ vs T². The solid lines
show fits of the data to
${\rm cot}\theta_{H}\!=\!\alpha T^{2}\!+\!\beta^{\prime}$. The magnetic
field is 14 T.

M. Loureiro, M. Marezio, S. N. Putilin, A. Santoro, and J. L. Tholence,
Physica C **218**, 348 (1993). * [21] P. G. Radaelli, J. L. Wagner, B.
A. Hunter, M. A. Beno, G. S. Knapp, J. D. Jorgensen, and D. G. Hinks,
Physica C **216**, 29 (1993). * [22] R. L. Meng, Y. Y. Sun, J. Kulik, Z.
J. Huang, F. Chen, Y. Y. Xue, and C. W. Chu, Physica C **214**, 307
(1993). * [23] T.-K. Xia and D. Stroud, Phys. Rev. B **37**, 118 (1988).
