# Anomalous ferromagnetism in CeRh₃B₂: Possibility of a new
Kondo-lattice state

S. A. Shaheen, J. S. Schilling

Experimentalphysik IV, Universitat Bochum, D-4630 Bochum 1, West Germany

R. N. Shelton

Department de Physique de la Matiere Condensie, Universite de Geneve,
CH-1211 Geneve 4, Switzerland

###### Abstract

Information on the nature of the highly anomalous ferromagnetic state of
CeRh₃B₂ below 115 K is gained by studying the evolution of the magnetic,
superconducting, and structural properties across the quasifernary
series La_(x)Ce_(1 − x)Rh₃B₂ and Ce(Ru_(x)Rh_(1 − x))₃B₂. The present
results offer considerable evidence that this ferromagnetism originates
from the ordering of Ce local moments and not, as has been claimed, from
itinerant magnetism in the Rh 4d band.

Cerium and its alloys and compounds exhibit a fascinatingly broad
spectrum of unusual physical phenomena which include both reentrant [1]
and heavy fermion [2] superconductivity, Kondo and mixed-valence
behavior, [3] and more recently, an anomalous ferromagnetic state in
CeRh₃B₂ below $T_{\rm c}$ = 115 K, [4, 5, 6, 7] by far the highest
magnetic ordering temperature of any known Ce system with nonmagnetic
constituents. This $T_{\rm c}$ value lies, in fact, above that of
GdRh₃B₂ with $T_{\rm c}$ = 90 K, [5] and is two orders of magnitude
above the value $T_{\rm c}$ = 1 K expected from simple de Gennes factor
considerations. The high Curie temperature, the apparently small ratio
of the saturation to effective moment (∼ 0.12), [4, 5] and a volume
anomaly interpreted as indicative of a mixed-valence Ce state [8, 9]
have led to the suggestion [4, 6] that the ferromagnetism of CeRh₃B₂ is
not local moment but itinerant in nature and arises primarily from the
Rh 4d band. An itinerant 4_d_-band ferromagnetism has also been proposed
in isostructural EuRh₃B₂ where Eu reportedly exists in a trivalent
(nonmagnetic) 4f state. [5] However, recent static magnetization and
Mossbauer effect studies show that Eu in stoichiometric EuRh₃B₂ is in a
nearly divalent (magnetic) 4_f_’ state and that the ferromagnetism
originates from the ordering of Eu local moments. [9] Previous reports
of Rh 4_d_-band ferromagnetism in LaRh₃B₄ and EuRh₃B₄ (Ref. [10]) were
later refuted by investigations [11] on samples prepared from ultrapure
starting materials; other similar reports [12] have yet to be confirmed.
Claims of itinerant 4_d_-band magnetism in CeRh₃B₂ should thus be
examined with due skepticism.

In the present work we attempt to shed light on the origins of the
anomalous ferromagnetism in CeRh₃B₂ by studying the evolution of the
magnetic and structural properties across the two quasifernary series
La_(x)Ce_(1 − x)Rh₃B₂ and Ce(Ru_(x)Rh_(1 − x))₃B₂. Pair-breaking effects
in superconducting LaCeRh₃B₂ are also investigated. We conclude that the
ferromagnetic state in CeRh₃B₂ arises not from an itinerant magnetism
but rather from the ordering of Ce local moments coupled together by
unusually strong Ce 4_f_-conduction electron hybridization. These
conclusions are consistent with the results of recent $L_{\rm III}$-edge
x-ray absorption and valence-band photoemission studies [13] as well as
band-structure calculations. [14]

The samples used in the present study were prepared by argon-arc melting
stoichiometric amounts of high-purity Ames Lab rare earths ( < 15 ppm of
any single metallic impurity) together with commercial rhodium and
ruthenium (99.9

It would seem reasonable to assume that the anomalous ferromagnetic
state in CeRh₃B₂ has its principal origins in one of three mechanisms:
(1) ordering of Ce local moments, (2) Rh 4d itinerant magnetism, and (3)
Ce 4f itinerant magnetism. The third alternative suggests itself because
of the unusually small Ce-Ce separation (3.90 A) along the c axis which
is well below the Hill limit. [15] A 4f contribution to the crystalline
binding would be, in fact, consistent with anomalies observed in both
the unit-cell volume [5, 7, 8] and the specific heat. [7] The fact that
the Ce-Ce separation is small only along the c axis direction would
dictate that such a 4f band must be quasi-one-dimensional in character.
The substitution of La for Ce should thus rapidly break up the 4f chains
and destroy the 4f itinerant magnetism. That this does not occur is seen
in Fig. 1 where with increasing La concentration the Curie temperature
$T_{\rm c}$ decreases only very slowly, La_(0.6)Ce_(0.2)Rh₃B₂ being, in
fact, still ferromagnetic. This is clear evidence against 4f itinerant
magnetism in CeRh₃B₂. On the contrary, the gradual linear increase of
$T_{\rm c}$ with Ce concentration is suggestive that the ferromagnetic
state involves the ordering of Ce local moments.

One of the simplest but most convincing arguments against Rh 4d
itinerant magnetism in CeRh₃B₂ is the fact that its neighboring
compounds, LaRh₃B₂ and PrRh₃B₂, show no anomalous magnetism, [8] the
former being, in fact, a superconductor at $T_{\rm sc}$ = 2.5 K (Refs.
[7] and [8]) with a conventional slow suppression of $T_{\rm sc}$ under
pressure. [7] The ex change enhancement factor S of LaRh₃B₂ is
estimated[16] to be less than 2, underscoring the lack of any
appreciable tendency towards magnetism in the Rh _4d_ band. Recent
valence-band photoemission studies on RRh₃B₂ with R = La, Ce, Pr by
Sampathkumaran _et al.[13]_ reveal essentiality identical Rh _4d_ bands
for all three compounds and thus speak against a _4d_ itinerant
magnetism in CeRh₃B₂ alone. That the electronic structure in CeRh₃B₂ is
unfavorable for _4d_ itinerant magnetism is also indicated by the
relatively low value[13, 14] of the Rh contribution to the electronic
density of states $N_{\rm Rh}(E_{F})$ = 0.68 states/eV-Rh and the fact
that the Fermi energy E_(F) appears to lie in a minimum of N(E)[14].

That, on the other hand, Ce does indeed possess a local moment in the
series La_(x)Ce_(1 − x)Rh₃B₂ is underscored by the observation that the
superconducting state in LaRh₃B₂ is sharply suppressed by the addition
of Ce impurities, as seen in Fig. 2. The $T_{\rm wc}(x)$ dependence
observed is characteristic for reentrant superconductors[1]. The initial
rate of decrease of $T_{\rm wc}$, −5.6 K/at.

That Ce retains its local moment across the La_(x)Ce_(1 − x)Rh₃B₂ series
is evidenced by magnetic susceptibility measurements where the
paramagnetic effect moment is found to equal 1.6μ_(B) per Ce ion for 8

To further test the above picture of local-moment magne

Figure 1: Temperature dependence of magnetization at 8 kOe in units
μ_(B) per formula unit across series La_(x)Ce_(1 − x)Rh₃B₂. Inset shows
as function of x saturation moment M_(x) at 4 K per Ce ion and per
formula unit, Curie temperature T_(e) and unit-cell volume V. Solid
lines are guides to eye.

Figure 2: Dependence of superconducting transition temperature
$T_{\rm wc}$ of LCaRh₃B₂ on concentration of Ce impurities. Solid line
is guide to eye. Dashed line is linear extrapolation.

tsim in CeRh₃B₂ it would be useful to substitute Rh with an element
which would be capable of destabilizing the Ce moment, as in the γ → α
transition in pure Ce, and would lead to intermediate valence behavior
with its accompanying anomalies in atomic volume, loss of magnetism, and
the possible appearance of superconductivity.[3] That the substitution
of Rh with Ru can destabilize the Ce moment is known from susceptibility
studies on CeRh₂ and CeRu₂ (Ref. [17]) and is also evidenced by the
observed superconductivity of CeRu₂ (Ref. [17]) and CeRu₃Si₂.[18]

In Fig. 3 it is seen that the above expectations are confirmed and that
the substitution of Ru for Rh across the quasiternary series
Ce(Ru_(x)Rh_(1 − y))₃B₂ leads to a rapid suppression of both the Curie
temperature and the saturation moment, the ferromagnetic state being
quenched y> 0.11. In the concentration range 0.16 ≤y≤0.23 a
susceptibility maximum is observed which may be related to
antiferromagnetic ordering or spin-fluctuation effects. Athreya[19]
points out that CeRu₃B₂ is superconducting below 0.95 K, a value
somewhat larger than that (0.68 K) reported by Yang, Torikachvili,
Maple, and Ku,[6] reflecting perhaps the difference in heat treatment.
That the superconducting state in CeRu₃B₂ is conventional and arises
because of the demagnetization of the Ce local moment, and not from
heavy fermion behavior, is clear from the low value of its specific-heat
coefficient γ = 17.6 mJ/mol K² (Ref. [6]) and the observed weak Pauli
paramagnetic susceptibility.[16] We also note that the relatively weak
temperature dependence of the resistivity of CeRh₃B₂ for T > $T_{\rm c}$
relative to that of CeRu₃B₂ (Ref. [6]) suggests a Kondo anomaly in the
former which is removed as Ru is substituted for Rh and Ce demagnetizes.

The variation of unit-cell volume V across a compound series gives
important information on possible changes in magnetic state
(valence).[3] For stable-valence rare earths like R = Gd, substituting
Ru for Rh in R (Ru_(x)Rh_(1 − y))₃B₂ leads to a slow increase in V,[8]
The anomalous decrease in V for R = Ce seen in the inset in Fig. 3
indicates that the valence of Ce is increasing from a nearly trivalent
value for y = 0 to a higher value which saturates for y > 0.5. The
destruction of ferromagnetism in Ce(Ru_(x)Rh_(1 − y))₃B₂ as Ru is
substituted for Rh thus goes hand in hand with a progressive
destabilization of the Ce local-moment state.

We would like to propose the following qualitative picture of the
anomalous ferromagnetic state of CeRh₃B₂. The very close proximity of Ce
ions along the c axis would be expected to lead to some delocalization
of 4f charge along that direction accompanied by a volume depression and
lattice bonding anomalies. However, because of the large Ce separation
in the plane perpendicular to the c axis, each Ce ion is able to retain
a major portion of its local moment state. Both the 4f charge overlap
along the c axis and a strong Ce 4f-Rh 4d hybridization result in a
particularly intense magnetic interaction between Ce ions.
Self-consistent band-structure calculations[14] indicate, in fact, that
∼ 20

Figure 3: Temperature dependence of magnetization of 8 kOe across series
Ce(Ru_(x)Rh_(1 − y))₃B₂. Inset shows as function of y saturation moment
M_(s) at 4 K, Curie temperature $T_{\rm c}$ and unit-cell volume V.
Solid line is guide to eye. Dashed line gives expected y dependence of V
for trivalent Ce ions based on x-ray data on GdRh₃B₂ and GdRu₃B₂ from
Ref. [8].

CeRh₃B₂ being near its maximum possible value. We suggest that Ce in
CeRh₃B₂ may be able to maintain its local-moment character in the face
of such strong covalent mixing because of the strong anisotropy in the
Ce-Ce separation, allowing simultaneously delocalized and localized 4f
states. Appreciable magnetic anisotropy would also be anticipated. A
full account of the above will be given elsewhere.[16]

The authors would like to acknowledge useful discussions with M.
Abd-Elmeguid, B. Harmon, H. Micklitz, D. K. Misemer, and E. V.
Sampathkumaran. The untiring experimental assistance of P. Klavins was
much valued. One of the authors (J.S.S.) acknowledges research support
by the Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft (SFB 166). S.A.S. acknowledges
support from the Deutscher Akademischer Austauschdienst. The Ames Lab is
operated for the U.S. Department of Energy by Iowa State University
through Contract No. W-7405-Eng-82. Research at Ames was supported by
the Director for Energy Research, Office of Basic Sciences,
WPAS-KC-02-02-02.

## References

* [1] Permanent address: Islamia University, Bahawalpur, Pakistan. * [2]
Present and permanent address: Ames Laboratory-U.S. Department of Energy
and Department of Physics, Iowa State University, Ames, Iowa 50011. *
[3] M. B. Maple, Appl. Phys. **9**, 179 (1976). * [4] F. Steglich, J.
Aarts, C. D. Bridl, W. Lieke, D. Meschede, W. Franz, and H. Schafer,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **43**, 1892 (1979). * [5] J. M. Lawrence, P. S.
Riseborough, and R. D. Parks, Rep. Prog. Phys. **44**, 1 (1981). * [6]
K. Dhar, S. K. Malik, and R. Vijayaraghavan, J. Phys. C **14**, L321
(1981). * [7] K. Malik, R. Vijayaraghavan, W. E. Wallace, and S. K.
Dhar, J. Magn. Magn. Mater. **37**, 303 (1983). * [8] K. N. Yang, M. S.
Torikachvili, M. B. Maple, and H. C. Ku, J. Low Temp. Phys. **56**, 601
(1984). * [9] S. A. Shaheen, J. S. Schilling, P. Klavins, C. B. Vining,
and R. N. Shelton, in ICVF Cologne 1984 [J. Magn. Magn. Mater. (to be
published)]. * [10] H. C. Ku, G. P. Meisner, F. Acker, and D. C.
Johnston, Solid State Commun. **35**, 91 (1980). * [11] S. A. Shaheen,
M. Abd-Elmeguid, H. Micklitz, J. S. Schilling, P. Klavins, and R. N.
Shelton (unpublished). * [12] H. Felner and I. Novik, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**45**, 2128 (1980). * [13] J. S. Schilling, R. N. Shelton, P. Klavins,
and S. A. Shaheen, Phys. Rev. **28**, 6548 (1983); F. Pontkees, J. S.
Schilling, P. Klavins, and R. N. Shelton (unpublished). * [14] I. Felner
and I. Novik, Solid State Commun. **47**, 831 (1983). * [15] E. V.
Sampathkumaran, C. Laubschat, G. Wortmann, W. Krone, and G. Kaindl
(unpublished). * [16] D. K. Misemer, S. Auluck, S. I. Kobayashi, and B.
N. Harmon Solid State Commun. (to be published). * [17] H. Hill, in
_Plunatum and Other Actinides_, edited by W. N. Miner [Nucl. Metall.
**17**, 2 (1970)]. * [18] S. A. Shaheen, J. S. Schilling, and R. N.
Shelton (unpublished). * [19] P. Weidner, K. Keutzer, R. Lohse, B.
Roden, J. Rohler, B. Wittingshen, and D. Wohlleben, in ICVF Cologne 1984
[J. Magn Magn. Mater. (to be published)]. * [20] U. Rauchschwalbe, W.
Lieke, F. Steglich, C. Godart, L. C. Gupta, and R. D. Parks, Phys. Rev.
B **30**, 444 (1984). * [21] K. Athreya (private communication). * [22]
J. R. Schrieffer and P. A. Wolff, Phys. Rev. **149**, 491 (1966). * [23]
S. Doniach, in _Valence Instabilities and Related Narrow-Band
Phenomena_, edited by R. D. Parks (Plenum, New York, 1977), p. 169. *
[24] A. Eiling and J. S. Schilling, Phys. Rev. Lett. **46**, 364 (1981).
