# Magnetic order and crystal structure in the superconducting R Ni2B2C
materials

J. W. Lynn and S. Skanthakumar

Reactor Radiation Division, National Institute of Standards and
Technology, Gaithersburg, Maryland 20899

and Center for Superconductivity Research, University of Maryland,
College Park, Maryland 20742

Q. Huang

Reactor Radiation Division, National Institute of Standards and
Technology, Gaithersburg, Maryland 20899

and Materials Engineering Program, University of Maryland, College Park,
Maryland 20742

S. K. Sinha

Advanced Photon Source, Argonne National Laboratory, Argonne, Illinois
60439

Z. Hossain, L. C. Gupta, and R. Nagarajan

Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, Bombay 400 005, India

C. Godart

CNRS, UPR-209, 92195 Meudon, France

###### Abstract

Neutron-diffraction measurements have been carried out to investigate
the crystal structure, magnetic structures, and magnetic phase
transitions in _R_Ni2B2C (_R_ = Y, Ce, Pr, Nd, Tb, Dy, Ho, Er, Tm, and
Yb). The materials that order magnetically exhibit a wide variety of
both commensurate and incommensurate magnetic structures, which argues
strongly that the dominant exchange interactions are of the indirect
Ruderman-Kittel-Kasuya-Yosida type. The Nd system exhibits a
commensurate antiferromagnetic ordering at 4.8 K, with wave vector d =
(1/2,0,1/2) and moment direction along a (or equivalently with d =
(0,1/2,1/2) and moment direction along b in this tetragonal system). For
Dy (T_(N) = 10.6 K), Pr (T_(N) = 4.0 K), and the low-temperature phase
of Ho, the magnetic structure is also a commensurate antiferromagnet
that consists of ferromagnetic sheets of rare-earth moments in the _a-b_
plane, with the sheets coupled antiferromagnetically along the c axis [
d = (0,0,1)]. Pr is not superconducting, while for Dy (T_(c) = 6 K) and
Ho (T_(c) = 8 K) this magnetic order coexists with superconductivity.
For Ho, though, the magnetic state that initially forms at T_(N) 8.5 K
is an incommensurate spiral antiferromagnetic state along the c axis in
which the direction of these ferromagnetic sheets are rotated in the
_a-b_ plane by  17deg from their low-temperature antiparallel
configuration [ d = (0,0,0,91)]. The intensity for this spiral state
reaches a maximum near the reentrant superconducting transition ( 5 K);
the spiral state then collapses at lower temperature in favor of the
commensurate antiferromagnetic state. An incommensurate _a_-axis
modulation, with d = (0.55,0,0), is also observed above the
spiral-antiferromagnetic transition, but it exists over a narrower
temperature range than the spiral state, and also collapses near the
reentrant superconducting transition. The Er system forms an
incommensurate, transversely polarized spin-density wave (SDW) state at
T_(N) = 6.8 K, with d = (0.553,0,0) and moment direction along b (or
with d along b and the moment direction along _a_). The SDW squares up
at low T, and coexists with the superconducting state (T_(c) = 11 K)
over the full temperature range where magnetic order is present. Tb,
which does not superconduct, orders with a very similar wave vector, but
the SDW is longitudinally polarized in this case and again squares up at
low T. Tm orders at T_(N) = 1.5 K in a transversely polarized SDW state,
but with the moments along the c axis and d = (0.093,0.093,0). This
state is coexistent with superconductivity (T_(c) = 11 K). No
significant magnetic moment is found to develop on the Ni site in any of
the materials, and there is no magnetic ordering of any kind in the Y,
Yb, or Ce materials. Profile refinements have also been carried out on
these same samples to investigate the systematics of the
crystallography, and the crystal structure is I4/_mmm_ over the full
range of compositions and temperatures investigated. The area of the
_a-b_ plane and the volume of the unit cell both decrease smoothly with
either decreasing lanthanide radius or decreasing temperature, but the
strong boron-carbon and nickel-carbon bonding then forces the c axis to
expand. [S0163-1829(97)06010-4]

## I Introduction

The properties of the new classes of quaternary intermetallic
superconductors such as the borocarbide series _R_Ni2B2C and _R_NiBC
(_R_ = rare-earth ion)1-4 have attracted a great deal of attention
recently because of their interesting superconducting and magnetic
properties, and the interaction between the two. From the viewpoint of
their superconductivity properties these systems have relatively high
transition temperatures (up to 23 K for YPd2B2C),2 and are the first
quaternary intermetallic systems that are superconducting. Initially
they were also thought to be the first "high-T_(c)" materials that do
not contain either copper or oxygen. However, it quickly became apparent
from measurements of the physical properties as well as band-structure
calculations [5] that these new materials are three-dimensional in their
behavior, and thus are in fact quite different than the layered
cuprates. The substantial isotope effect, [6] the nature of the
electronic properties, [7] as well as theoretical calculations, all show
that the electron-phonon interaction is strong in these systems, and the
high T_(c)’s are now thought to originate from a peak in the electronic
density of states at the Fermi surface. The strong suppression of the
superconducting transition temperature with magnetic doping onto the Ni
lattice [8] also indicates that these are conventional electron-phonon
superconductors. More recently, a phonon anomaly, reminiscent of the
strong electron-phonon coupling found previously in carbide
superconductors and related systems, [9] has also been observed in this
class of materials, [10] and very recently an additional
lattice-dynamical mode directly associated with the formation of the
superconducting state has been discovered. [11] It therefore is apparent
that these materials are model electron-phonon superconductors.

The interaction between magnetic long-range order and superconductivity
has been an active area of interest for many years, and in this regard
these new quaternary materials play a unique role. In the ternary
Chevrel-phase and related magnetic-superconductor systems [12] the
magnetic ordering temperatures are typically ∼ 1 K, comparable to the
expected dipolar ordering temperatures. Magnetic exchange interactions
play a role in determining the magnetic structures that are realized,
but at most they are comparable to the dipole interactions, and the
magnetic ordering temperatures are typically much lower than the
superconducting transitions. An even more extreme situation is found for
the high-T_(c) cuprate superconductors, where the rare-earth ions again
become ordered in the 1 K range, [13] while the superconducting
transitions are one to two orders-of-magnitude higher in temperature.

Following the initial discovery of the quaternary materials, Eisaki _et
al._[14] investigated the systematics of rare-earth substitution in the
system. They found that almost all the rare earths ordered magnetically,
and that many were superconducting as well. The magnetic ordering
temperatures occur at much higher temperatures [with T_(N) as high as 19
K for GdNi₂B₂C, (Refs. [15] and [16]) than for the Chevrel phase or
cuprate materials, while the superconducting transition temperatures
(when they occur) are comparable to the magnetic transition
temperatures. The much higher Neel temperatures ensure that the magnetic
energetics for these new systems are dominated by exchange rather than
dipolar (electromagnetic) interactions, while the comparable
superconducting condensation energies ensure that the interplay between
superconductivity and magnetism should be much stronger than for the
earlier systems and on a comparable energetic footing. This has indeed
turned out to be the case, with the most interesting system appearing to
be HoNi₂B₂C. This material becomes superconducting at ∼ 8 K, then
recrites the normal state at ∼ 5 K, only to quickly become
superconducting again with further reduction of temperature. [14, 17]
The first neutron studies revealed that coincidently with the
superconductivity, long-range magnetic order develops at about the same
temperature. [18, 19] Two types of magnetic order were initially
observed; a commensurate antiferromagnetic structure that consists of
sheets of ferromagnetic moments in the _a-b_ plane, with adjacent sheets
coupled antiferromagnetically along the c axis, and an incommensurate
spiral state that is obtained by rotating the direction of these
ferromagnetic sheets in the _a-b_ plane by an angle ϕ = 16.6^(∘) away
from the antiferromagnetic arrangement. If this angle were exactly
15^(∘) then this would be a long-wavelength commensurate spiral, with a
period of 24 Ho layers (12 unit cells). However, the actual spiral that
forms is incommensurate with the underlying lattice. The intensities
from both types of Bragg peaks develop at about the same ordering
temperature and initially grow with decreasing temperature at the same
rate. At ∼ 5 K the superconductivity is reentrant as evidenced by a deep
minimum in H_(c2) near 5 K, [14] below which the incommensurate spiral
order locks into the commensurate antiferromagnetic structure. An
additional incommensurate magnetic component, with wave vector along the
a axis, was found to develop at a lower temperature (∼ 6 K), and this
component also disappears near the reentrant transition. [20, 21] Once
the system is in the commensurate antiferromagnetic state, this permits
the return of superconductivity, and the long-range antiferromagnetic
order coexists with superconductivity at low temperatures.

The nature of the magnetic order and its influence on the
superconductivity is clearly quite interesting in these RNi₂B₂C
materials, and here we report a systematic investigation of the magnetic
structures and phase transitions across the rare-earth series. There is
quite a variety of magnetic structures found for the different rare
earths. Some are relatively simple commensurate antiferromagnets, while
others form incommensurate structures with modulation wave vectors that
are sometimes along the [100] direction, sometimes along the [110]
direction, and sometimes along the [001] direction. This behavior is
reminiscent of the rare-earth elemental systems, [22] and argues that
the exchange interactions are of the Rudermem-Kittel-Kasuya-Yosida
(RKKY) type, mediated through the conduction electrons. We have also
found, as others have, [23] that the magnetic and superconducting
properties are very sensitive functions of the composition. We therefore
have also carried out a systematic study of the crystal structure of our
samples in order to establish the systematics and identify if possible
the underlying property that is controlling this very subtle dependence
on composition.

## II Experimental Procedures

Polycrystalline samples of RNi₂B₂C (R = Y, Ce, Pr, Nd, Tb, Dy, Ho, Er,
Tm) were prepared using a standard arc melting technique under flowing
argon atmosphere. Starting materials were high purity (about 99.9

Due to the high vapor pressure of Yb, the YbNi₂B₂C sample was prepared
by a solid-state reaction technique. First Ni and B were taken in a 1:1
molecular weight ratio and melted in an arc furnace under flowing argon.
Any loss in weight was taken to be due to boron and was accordingly
compensated. The ingot was powdered and mixed with an appropriate amount
of C powder and small pieces of Yb and the mixture was pelletized. The
pellet was sealed in a Mo crucible under an argon atmosphere and the
crucible was then sealed in a quartz tube under vacuum. The sealed
ampoule was heated to 1250 degC over a period of 24 h and then furnace
cooled. The samples were ground and pelletized and the whole procedure
was repeated once to get the final product. The pellets had good
mechanical strength indicating a good solid-state reaction.

With the exception of Y and Yb, the samples were prepared with the ¹¹B
isotope to reduce the unwanted neutron absorption of ¹⁰B found in
naturally occurring boron. Typically the weight of each sample was 2-5
g. Phase purity of the material was checked by powder x-ray diffraction.
The samples were then characterized by a variety of techniques.
Resistivity was measured using the four-probe method. Both ac and dc
magnetization measurements were employed to look for the superconducting
transition and to study the magnetic behavior. Heat-capacity
measurements were done using the semadiabatic heat-pulse technique.

The neutron-diffraction experiments were carried out at the National
Institute of Standards and Technology research reactor. The
temperature-dependent magnetic diffraction data were obtained on the
BT-2 triple-axis spectrometer operated in two-axis mode. A pyrolytic
graphite monochromator and filter were employed at a wavelength of 2.351
A in the usual manner, and the collimation before and after the sample
was typically 20^(′) full width at half maximum. The samples were held
in an aluminum cylindrical holder and placed in an ILL-type top loading
cryostat to cool the sample from room temperature to temperatures as low
as 1.6 K. Lower temperatures were achieved with a cold-finger pumped³ He
cryostat (to 0.3 K). For the highly absorbing Y sample we used a thin
flat-plate holder to minimize the effects of absorption, while for the
Yb sample we employed a cylindrical annulus.²⁴ In addition, during the
long shutdown of the NIST reactor some data on the Ho, Dy, and Er
samples were collected on the HB-3 spectrometer at the Oak Ridge
National Laboratory utilizing a similar experimental configuration.

High-resolution powder-diffraction data were obtained on the BT-1
spectrometer at NIST, employing the Cu(311) monochromator and a
wavelength of 1.54 A. The samples were placed in a cylindrical holder
made of vanadium, with the exception of the Yb sample which again was
put in an aluminum annulus. These data were then used to obtain complete
structural refinements for all the samples at room temperature, and at a
few selected temperatures below this. Preliminary data were also
collected on some of the samples with the HB-4 powder diffractometer at
Oak Ridge National Laboratory. However, to facilitate the most direct
comparison between the different samples all the refinements reported
here were obtained on BT-1. The standard gsas (Ref. 25) program was used
to refine all the structural data, and this program was also used in
most cases to refine the magnetic structure when the structure was
commensurate.

In cases where just a few magnetic peaks were observed, or the magnetic
structure was incommensurate, the integrated intensities of the magnetic
and nuclear intensities were obtained by fitting a resolution-limited
Gaussian to each observed peak. In this case the intensity for the
nuclear reflection is given by²⁶

$$I_{N} = C|F_{N}(hkl)^{2}|\frac{m_{hkl}A_{hkl}}{\sin(\theta)\sin(2\,\theta)},$$

where C is an instrumental constant, m_(l) is the multiplicity of the
powder peak with Miller indices _hkl_, A_(l) is the absorption factor,
and the nuclear structure factor is given by

$$F_{N} = \sum\limits_{j = 1}^{N}\,b_{j}e^{i\tau \cdot \tau_{j}}e^{- W_{j}}$$

with t the reciprocal-lattice vector of the Bragg peak _hkl_, b_(j) the
coherent nuclear scattering amplitude for the _j_th ion at position
**r**_j_ in the unit cell, W_(j) is the Debye-Waller factor, and the sum
is over all atoms in the unit cell. The magnetic intensity is given by
the similar expression

$$I_{M} = C\left( \frac{\gamma e^{2}}{2mc^{2}} \right)^{2}|F_{M}|^{2}\frac{m_{hkl}A_{hkl}}{\sin(\theta)\sin(2\,\theta)},$$

where the constant in parentheses is the neutron-electron dipole
coupling constant, and the magnetic structure factor is given by

$$F_{M} = \sum\limits_{j = 1}^{N}\,(\,\hat{\tau} \times [\hat{\bf M}_{j} \times \,\hat{\tau} \,])\langle\mu_{j}^{z}\rangle f_{j}(\tau)e^{i\tau \cdot \tau_{j}}e^{- W_{j}},$$

where M_(j) is the direction of the atomic moment, ⟨μ_(j)^(z)⟩ is the
ordered moment, and f_(j)(_hkl_) is the magnetic form factor. For the
magnetic form factors of the rare-earth ions we used the free-ion
calculated values.²⁷ For the incommensurate structures it is convenient
to write the magnetic structure factor in terms of the _n_th Fourier
component of the moment μ_(j)^(n) at site j,²⁸

$$F_{M} = \sum\limits_{j = 1}^{N}\,\{\mu_{j}^{n} - \hat{\tau}[\,\hat{\tau} \cdot \mu_{j}^{n}]\}f_{j}(\tau)e^{i\tau \cdot \tau_{j}}e^{- W_{j}}.$$

A model for each spin structure is then developed and least-squares fit
to the observed magnetic intensities. The magnetic intensities can then
be put on an absolute scale by comparison with the nuclear intensities.
We also employed the subtraction technique,²⁹ whereby the
nuclear-diffraction pattern above the ordering temperature is subtracted
from the data observed at low temperatures. If there is no significant
structural distortion, as is the case for the present systems, and the
temperature variation of the lattice parameter is not significant
compared to the instrumental resolution, then the nuclear Bragg peaks
subtract out leaving only the magnetic Bragg peaks. This is a convenient
way to quickly identify the magnetic diffraction pattern.

Equations (3) and (4) show that the intensity of each magnetic Bragg
peak is proportional to the square of the ordered moment, and thus the
order parameter (or its square) can be readily obtained from the
measurements. In principle, one can determine the spatial dimensionality
of the system, the number of components of the order parameter (i.e.,
Ising, _xy_, Heisenberg, etc.), critical exponents, etc. In practice,
however, trying to extract such quantities from powder-diffraction data
is typically unwarranted. In the present case we tried fitting a
Brillouin function to the sublattice magnetization as a first step. This
is in essence a mean-field theory, which certainly will not be correct
in detail for most systems. However, we have simply let all the
parameters vary (_J_, T_(N), and saturation magnetization) in order to
get the best smooth curve through the data and obtain an estimate of
T_(N). In some cases a mean-field fit did not provide an adequate fit to
the data, and then we simply put a smooth curve through the data.

## III Crystal Structure

We have carried out high-resolution profile refinements for these
materials for a range of temperatures at and below room temperature. An
example of the data and structural refinement is shown in Fig. 1, which
is for HoNi₂B₂C at 1.7 K. This is in the antiferromagnetically ordered
state, and the lowest-angle Bragg peak belongs to the (001)
antiferromagnetic reflection. The large holmium moment results in
magnetic peaks that are comparable in intensity to the nuclear peaks,
and thus the results from the refinements are statistically comparable
for the nuclear and magnetic structures. In this figure the short
vertical lines designate magnetic peaks, while the long vertical lines
indicate the positions of the nuclear Bragg peaks. All the _R_Ni₂B₂C
(_R_ = Y, Ce, Pr, Nd, Tb, Dy, Ho, Er, Tm, and Yb) samples investigated
possess the same body-centered-tetragonal (_I_4/_mmm_) structure found
originally,[4] which is shown in Fig. 2. The structure consists of _R_-C
planes separated by Ni₂B₂ layers stacked along the c axis. The solid
curve in Fig. 1 is the fit to the resultant magnetic and nuclear
structure, and we see that we obtain a very good fit as indicated at the
bottom of the figure, where the difference between the calculated and
observed values is given.

In the following section we will discuss the magnetic structures; here
we discuss the crystal structure. Above the magnetic ordering
temperatures only the nuclear Bragg peaks are present, and the profile
refinement technique readily provides the structural parameters as given
in Table 1. Figure 3 shows the room-temperature lattice parameters as a
function of lanthanide radius. We see that the volume of the unit cell
increases smoothly with increasing lanthanide radius, as does the basal
plane lattice parameter. The _c_-axis lattice parameter, on the other,
shows an anomalous decrease with increasing radius as was observed in
the x-ray data.[4]

Figure 2: Body-centered-tetragonal crystal structure (_I_4/_mmm_) for
the _R_Ni₂B₂C series.

Figure 1: Diffraction pattern and refinement for HoNi₂B₂C at 1.7 K in
the antiferromagnetically ordered (and superconducting) state. The
crosses are the experimental data and the solid curve is from the
refinement based on the magnetic (short vertical lines) and nuclear
(long vertical lines) Bragg peaks. The difference between the model
calculation and the observations is shown at the bottom.

The only apparent exception to this smooth variation appears to be for
Ce, which did not fall on the curve unless we adjusted the radius by
admixing Ce⁴⁺, suggesting that this is mixed valent. Indeed mixed-valent
behavior for Ce has already been suggested.[15] A similar trend is found
for the lattice parameters as a function of temperature, as shown in
Fig. 4 for the Ho and Ce materials, where we see that a increases with
increasing temperature while c decreases. The same trend is found for
all the other samples.

We can understand this behavior when the full results of the structural
analysis are reviewed. Figure 5 presents some of the relevant bond
distances and angles as a function of

Figure 4: Lattice parameters and unit-cell volume as a function of
temperature for HoNi₂B₂C and CeNi₃B₂C.

Figure 3: Room-temperature lattice parameters and unit-cell volume as a
function of lanthanide radius.

Table 3: The magnetic structure, ordered moment, Néel temperature, and
modulation wave vector determined in the present neutron-scattering
study for the _R_Ni₂B₂C systems. The superconducting transition
temperature is also given for the materials that are superconducting.
The Gd system was investigated by magnetic x-ray scattering (Ref. [16])
because of the high absorption of Gd for neutrons, and is included for
completeness. For the ground-state magnetic structures of Ho and Dy the
neutron measurements cannot distinguish the easy axis in the
_a-b_-plane, but magnetization measurements indicate that the easy axis
is [110] (Refs. [31] and [36]). Comparisons with other neutron and x-ray
work are given in the text.

Figure 20: Temperature dependence of the magnetic Bragg peak intensity
associated with the incommensurate ordering in TmNi₂B₂C. The modulation
wave vector for this material is in the [1,1,0] direction, which is
unique for this class of materials. The 3q satellite peak observed at
low temperatures is shown in the inset, and indicates that the magnetic
structure has squared-up while remaining incommensurate. The temperature
dependence of the ratio of the third-order to first order intensities is
also shown.

calculations, with the inclusion of matrix elements, are needed. In
particular, it will be interesting to determine if the maximum in the
conduction electron susceptibility varies with the rare earth in such a
way as to provide an explanation for the full range of magnetic
structures observed in this class of materials.

The richest behavior both for the magnetism and superconductivity is
exhibited by the Ho material, which initially forms a commensurate
antiferromagnetic structure along with two incommensurate modulation
wave vectors along a and along c (see Table 3). In the same temperature
regime the material is also developing superconductivity. The holmium
material is known to be particularly sensitive to variations in
composition,[23] and it appears that at least some of the states occur
in different regions of the sample. In particular, in regions where the
commensurate antiferromagnetic state initially forms there is probably a
simple coexistence with superconductivity.[30] In regions where the
incommensurate magnetism develops, though, this is detrimental to the
superconducting state, and forces the system to be reentrant or nearly
reentrant around 5 K. The magnetic system then locks-in to the
commensurate antiferromagnetic structure, whereby the superconducting
state recovers and these two cooperative states coexist to low
temperatures.

The holmium magnetic structure for the c-axis modulation corresponds to
a spiral along the c axis.[18, 19, 30] For a pure spiral there will be
no higher-order satellite peaks in the diffraction pattern, and none was
observed in the powder-diffraction experiments. However, including a
fourfold anisotropy in the a-b plane should produce some bunching of the
moments, and this will give rise to (typically small) higher-order
satellite peaks,[28, 34] and such peaks have been observed in
single-crystal measurements.[20, 35] For a SDW-type structure such as
observed in Gd, Tb, Er, and Tm, on the other hand, the magnetic
structure squares-up at low temperatures, as evidenced by the
development of strong higher-order satellite peaks that are easily
observed in the powder-diffraction pattern. The SDW structures in the
Gd, Tb, Er, and Tm materials remain incommensurate over the full
temperature range where they are ordered magnetically. An alternative
possibility to the squaring up is that a lock-in transition to a
commensurate magnetic structure occurs, and this may be the case for the
a-axis structure in the Ho material. The magnetic structure for this
a-axis modulation has not been solved yet, but it is clear that the
structure locks-in to the commensurate antiferromagnetic structure,
which is the ground state for the system. There is still an overall
question about whether the magnetic structures associated with the
a-axis modulations in all these systems are coexistent or competing with
the formation of Cooper pairs. However, since Er is a superconductor
while Gd and Tb are not, it is clear that if there is a strong
competition, it must arise not from the value of δ itself but from the
nature of the polarization of the SDW. This is clearly an area where
more work is needed.

###### Acknowledgements.

We would like to thank Bryan Chakoumakos, Jaime Fernandez-Baca, and
Brent Taylor for their generous assistance while we were visiting Oak
Ridge National Laboratory, managed by Lockheed Martin Energy Research
Corporation for the U.S. Department of Energy under Contract No.
DE-AC05-96OR22464. Research at the University of Maryland is supported
in part by NSF, DMR 93-02380. Research at CNRS and TIFR is supported in
part by the Indo-French Contract No. FEFIPRA 509-IRA.

## References

* [1] R. Nagarajan, C. Mazumdar, Z. Hossain, S. K. Dhar, K. V.
Gopalakrishnan, L. C. Gupta, C. Godart, B. D. Padalia, and R.
Vijayranghavan, Phys. Rev. Lett. **72**, 274 (1994). * [2] R. J. Cava,
H. Takagi, B. Batlogg, H. W. Zandbergen, J. J. Krajewski, W. F. Peck,
Jr., R. B. van Dover, R. J. Felder, T. Siegrist, K. Mizuhahi, J. O. Lee,
H. Eisaki, S. A. Carter, and S. Uchida, Nature (London) **367**, 146
(1994). * [3] R. J. Cava, H. Takagi, H. W. Zandbergen, J. J. Krajewski,
W. F. Peck, Jr., T. Siegrist, B. Batlogg, R. B. van Dover, R. J. Felder,
K. Mizuhashi, J. O. Lee, H. Eisaki, and S. Uchida, Nature (London)
**367**, 252 (1994). * [4] T. Siegrist, H. W. Zandbergen, R. J. Cava, J.
J. Krajewski, and W. F. Peck, Jr., Nature (London) **367**, 254
(1994). * [5] L. F. Mattheiss, Phys. Rev. B **49**, 13 279 (1994); W. E.
Pickett and D. J. Singh, Phys. Rev. Lett. **72**, 3702 (1994); L. F.
Mattheiss, T. Siegrist, and R. J. Cava, Solid State Commun. **91**, 587
(1994); R. Coehoorn, Physica C **228**, 5671 (1994); L. F. Mattheiss,
Phys. Rev. B **47**, 8224 (1993). * [6] D. D. Lawrie and J. P. Franck,
J. Supercond. **8**, 591 (1995). * [7] See, for example, M. Xu, P. C.
Canfield, J. E. Ostenson, D. K. Finnemore, B. K. Cho, Z. R. Wang, and D.
C. Johnston, Physica C **227**, 321 (1994); S. A. Carter, B. Batlogg, R.
J. Cava, J. J. Krajewski, W. F. Peck, Jr., and H. Tagaki, Phys. Rev. B
**50**, 4216 (1994). * [8] H. Schmidt, M. Muller, and H. F. Braun,
Physica **235-240**, 779 (1994). * [9] H. G. Smith, in
_Superconductivity in d- and f-Band Metals_, edited by D. H. Douglass
(AIP, New York, 1972). * [10] P. Dervenagas, M. Bullock, J. Zarestky, P.
Canfield, B. K. Cho, B. Harmon, A. I. Goldman, and C. Stassis, Phys.
Rev. B **52**, R9839 (1995). * [11] H. Kawano, H. Yoshizawa, H. Takeya,
and K. Kadowaki, Phys. Rev. Lett. **77**, 4628 (1996). * [12] For a
thorough review of many aspects of magnetic superconductors see, _Topics
in Current Physics_, edited by $\O$. Fischer and M. B. Maple
(Springer-Verlag, New York, 1983), Vols. 32 and 34. * [13] See, for
example, _High Temperature Superconductors_, edited by J. W. Lynn
(Springer-Verlag, New York, 1990), Chap. 8, p. 268. * [14] H. Eisaki, H.
Takagi, R. J. Cava, K. Mizuhashi, J. O. Lee, B. Batlogg, J. J.
Krajewski, W. F. Peck, Jr., and S. Uchida, Phys. Rev. B **50**, 647
(1994). * [15] L. C. Gupta, R. Nagarajan, Z. Hossain, C. Mazumdar, S. K.
Dhar, C. Godart, C. Levy-Clement, B. D. Padalia, and R. Vijayaraghavan,
J. Magn. Magn. Mater. **140-144**, 2053 (1995); M. E. Massalami, S. L.
Bud’ko, B. Giordanengo, and E. M. Baggio-Saitovitch, Physica C **224**,
41 (1995). * [16] C. Detlefs, A. I. Goldman, C. Stassis, P. C. Canfield,
B. K. Cho, J. P. Hill, and D. Gibbs, Phys. Rev. B **53**, 6355 (1996). *
[17] P. C. Canfield, B. K. Cho, D. C. Johnston, D. K. Finnemore, and M.
F. Hundley, Physica C **230**, 397 (1994); M. S. Lin, J. H. Shieh, Y. B.
You, W. Y. Guan, H. C. Ku, H. D. Yang, and J. C. Ho, Phys. Rev. B
**52**, 1181 (1995); M. El Massalami and E. M. Baggio-Saitovitch, J.
Magn. Magn. Mater. **153**, 97 (1996). * [18] T. E. Grigereit, J. W.
Lynn, Q. Huang, A. Santoro, R. J. Cava, J. J. Krajewski, and W. F. Peck,
Jr., Phys. Rev. Lett. **73**, 2756 (1994). * [19] Q. Huang, A. Santoro,
T. E. Grigereit, J. W. Lynn, R. J. Cava, J. J. Krajewski, and W. F.
Peck, Jr., Phys. Rev. B **51**, 3701 (1995); T. E. Grigereit, J. W.
Lynn, R. J. Cava, J. J. Krajewski, and W. F. Peck, Jr., Physica C
**248**, 382 (1995). * [20] A. I. Goldman, C. Stassis, P. C. Canfield,
J. Zarestky, P. Dervenagas, B. K. Cho, D. C. Johnston, and B. Sternlieb,
Phys. Rev. B **50**, R9668 (1994). * [21] C. V. Tomy, L. J. Chang, D.
McK. Paul, N. H. Anderson, and M. Yethiraj, Physica B **213-214**, 139
(1995). * [22] See, for example, W. C. Koehler, in _Magnetic Properties
of Rare Earth Metals_, edited by R. J. Elliott (Plenum, New York, 1972),
p. 81. * [23] H. Schmidt, M. Weber, and H. F. Braun, Physica C **246**,
177 (1995); **256**, 393 (1996). * [24] N. Rosov and J. W. Lynn (private
communication). * [25] A. C. Larson and R. B. Von Dreele, _General
Structure Analysis System_, Report No. LAUR-86-748, Los Alamos National
Laboratory, Los Alamos, NM 87545 (1990). * [26] G. E. Bacon, _Neutron
Diffraction_ (Clarendon, Oxford, 1975). * [27] M. Blume, A. J. Freeman,
and R. E. Watson, J. Chem. Phys. **37**, 1245 (1953). * [28] S. K.
Sinha, J. W. Lynn, T. E. Grigereit, Z. Hossain, L. C. Gupta, R.
Nagarajan, and C. Godart, Phys. Rev. B **51**, 681 (1995). * [29] H.
Zhang, J. W. Lynn, W.-H. Li, T. W. Clinton, and D. E. Morris, Phys. Rev.
B **41**, 11 229 (1990). * [30] J. W. Lynn, Q. Huang, A. Santoro, R. J.
Cava, J. J. Krajewski, and W. F. Peck, Jr., Phys. Rev. B **53**, 802
(1996). * [31] B. K. Cho, B. N. Harmon, D. C. Johnston, and P. C.
Canfield, Phys. Rev. B **53**, 2217 (1996). * [32] D. R. Sanchez, H.
Micklitz, M. B. Fontes, S. L. Bud’ko, and E. Baggio-Saitovitch, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **76**, 507 (1996). * [33] B. J. Suh, F. Borsa, D. R.
Torgeson, B. K. Cho, P. C. Canfield, D. C. Johnston, J. Y. Rhee, and B.
N. Harmon, Phys. Rev. B **53**, R6022 (1996). * [34] J. P. Hill, B. J.
Sternlieb, D. Gibbs, C. Detlefs, A. I. Goldman, C. Stassis, P. C.
Canfield, B. K. Cho, Phys. Rev. B **53**, 3487 (1996). * [35] H. Kawano
_et al._ (private communication). * [36] P. C. Canfield, S. L. Bud’ko,
and B. K. Cho (unpublished). * [37] Preliminary results have been
reported, in J. W. Lynn, Q. Huang, S. K. Sinha, Z. Hossain, L. C. Gupta,
R. Nagarajan, and C. Godart, Physica B **224**, 66 (1996). * [38] P.
Dervenagas, J. Zarestky, C. Stassis, A. I. Goldman, P. C. Canfield, and
B. K. Cho, Physica B **212**, 1 (1995); C. V. Tomy, L. J. Chang, D. McK.
Paul, N. H. Andersen, and M. Yethiraj, Physica B **224**, 116 (1996). *
[39] C. V. Tomy, G. Balakrishnan, and D. McK. Paul, Physica C **248**,
349 (1995); B. K. Cho, P. C. Canfield, and D. C. Johnston, Phys. Rev. B
**52**, R3844 (1995); M. S. Lin, J. H. Shieh, Y. B. You, Y. Y. Hsu, J.
W. Chen, S. H. Lin, Y. D. Yao, J. C. Ho, and H. C. Ku, Physica C
**249**, 403 (1995); C. V. Tomy, M. R. Lees, L. Afaliz, G. Balakrishnan,
and D. Mck. Paul, Phys. Rev. B **52**, 9186 (1995); Z. Hossain, R.
Nagarajan, L. C. Gupta, S. K. Dhar, C. Godart, and R. Vijayaraghavan,
Physica B **223-224**, 99 (1996). * [40] For a recent review see J. W.
Lynn, J. Alloys Compounds (to be published). * [41] See, for example, S.
Skanthakumar, J. W. Lynn, J. L. Peng, and Z. Y. Li, Phys. Rev. B **47**,
6173 (1993). * [42] J. Zarestky, C. Stassis, A. I. Goldman, P. C.
Canfield, P. Dervenagas, B. K. Cho, and D. C. Johnston, Phys. Rev. B
**51**, 678 (1995). * [43] See, for example, J. Rossat-Mignod, in
_Methods of Experimental Physics_, edited by K. Skold and D. L. Price
(Academic, Orlando, 1987), Vol. 23 C, Chap. 19. * [44] In Eq. (4) of
Ref. 28, the correct expression for model (1) is obtained by replacing
the factor [1 − Q̂_(j)²] by [1 + Q̂_(z)²], and not [1 + Q̂_(z)²] as
indicated in the text. * [45] P. Dervenagas, J. Zarestky, C. Stassis, A.
I. Goldman, P. C. Canfield, and B. K. Cho, Phys. Rev. B **53**, 8506
(1996). * [46] B. K. Cho, P. C. Canfield, and D. C. Johnston, Phys. Rev.
B **53**, 8499 (1996). * [47] C. V. Tomy, L. A. Afaliz, M. R. Lees, J.
M. Martin, D. McK. Paul, and D. T. Adroja, Phys. Rev. B **53**, 307
(1996). * [48] B. K. Cho, M. Xu, P. C. Canfield, L. L. Miller, and D. C.
Johnston, Phys. Rev. B **52**, 3676 (1995). * [49] J. W. Lynn, Q. Huang,
S. K. Sinha, Z. Hossain, L. C. Gupta, R. Nagarajan, and C. Godart, J.
Appl. Phys. **79**, 5857 (1996). * [50] L. J. Chang, C. V. Tomy, D. McK.
Paul, and C. Ritter, Phys. Rev. B **54**, 9031 (1996). * [51] S. K.
Dhar, R. Nagarajan, Z. Hossain, C. Godart, L. C. Gupta, and R.
Vijayaraghavan, Solid State Commun. **98**, 985 (1996). * [52] J. Y.
Rhee, X. Wang, and B. N. Harmon, Phys. Rev. B **51**, 15 585 (1995).
