# Structure of HgBa₂CuO_(4 + δ) (0.06 < δ<0.19) at ambient and high
pressure

A. M. Balagurov,* D. V. Sheptyakov, and V. L. Aksenov

Joint Institute for Nuclear Research, 141980, Dubna, Moscow region,
Russia

E. V. Antipov* and S. N. Putilin

Department of Chemistry, Moscow State University, 119899, Moscow, Russia

P. G. Radaelli

ISIS Facility, CLRC Rutherford Appleton Laboratory, Chilton, Didcot,
Oxon OX11 0QX, United Kingdom

M. Marezio

MASPEEC, Consiglio Nazionale delle Ricerche via Chiavari 18/A, 43100
Parma, Italy

24 July 1998; revised manuscript received 26 October 1998

###### Abstract

The results of a neutron-diffraction study of the HgBa₂CuO_(4 + δ)
structure at ambient pressure and under external pressure at different
extra oxygen concentrations are presented. The results have been
analyzed together with the data of previous investigations. It is shown
that in the cation-stoichiometric samples the O_(δ) oxygen is only
present in the center of the mercury layer, T_(c) is parabolically
dependent on δ, and T_(c, max ) is obtained at $\delta_{\rm opt}$= 0.13±
0.01. The influence of pressure on the structure strongly depends on the
doping level. At low oxygen content (δ≈ 0.06), the compression of the
structure is practically uniform. An increase of the extra oxygen
content to 0.19 (overdoped state) results in the larger compression of
the apical Cu-O(2) and Ba-O_(δ) distances, while the HgO₂ dumb-bell as
well as the distance between Ba and O belonging to the (CuO₂) layer
become practically pressure independent. These results are in agreement
with models, in which the effect of the charge transfer from the
reservoir to the (CuO₂) layers does not play a dominant role in the
T_(c) increase with pressure at low and optimal δ values, while in the
overdoped state the charge transfer is enhanced under pressure, thus
inducing the T_(c) decrease. [S0163-1829(99)03006-4]

## I Introduction

The HgBa₂CuO_(4 + δ) phase (Hg-1201) is at the moment one of the most
thoroughly studied high-temperature superconductors (HTSC’s) from the
point of view of the relationship between atomic structure and physical
properties. Its structure, presented in Fig. 1, can be described in
terms of four layers,1 (HgO_(δ))(BaO)(CuO₂)(BaO), stacked along the c
axis of the tetragonal unit cell. The (HgO_(δ)) and (CuO₂) layers are
flat, while the Ba and O atoms in the (BaO) layer are displaced ∼ 0.9 A
from each other along the c axis due to the interaction of these atoms
with the neighboring layers. Owing to the high crystallographic symmetry
and the small number of atoms, the structure has only a few variable
parameters, which can be determined with a high degree of reliability
from structural refinements based on diffraction data. Unlike the
majority of the other HTSC compounds, such peculiarities as stacking
faults, structure modulations, large static displacements of atoms,
etc., are practically absent in Hg -1201.

Footnote 1: The δ-δ ratio is 0.0163-1829/99/59(10)/7209(7)/515.00

It is generally assumed that the (HgO_(δ)) layer acts as charge
reservoir for the (CuO₂) planes. The insertion of O_(δ) oxygen into it
leads to the appearance of charge carriers (holes) in the (CuO₂) layer.
By adjusting the oxygen content in the (HgO_(δ)) layer, the doping level
of Hg-1201 can be easily varied over a wide range, from strongly
underdoped to highly overdoped states of which some are
nonsuperconducting.

Both functional and quantitative relationships between T_(c) and δ are
still controversial. The data published (see, for example, Refs. 2 and
3) do not contradict the universal parabolic dependence of Presland _et
al._:4

$$T_{c} = T_{c,\max}[1-q(\delta-\delta_{\rm opt})^{2}\},$$

although recent results5 are not in agreement with the above equation.
The quantitative disagreements are mostly due to the uncertainty in the
$\delta_{\rm opt}$, the value at which the maximum superconducting
transition temperature, T_(c, max ) is observed. The Hg-1201 structural
refinements based on powder neutron-diffraction data, gave
$\delta_{\rm opt}$ values comprised between 0.06 (Ref. 6) and 0.18.2

Figure 1: Schematic representation of the Hg-1201 structure (a half of
the unit cell). The values of the compressibilities obtained in the
present paper (see Sec. III.2) of the selected bond distances are
written on the left for the underdoped sample, and on the right for the
overdoped sample.

Another question about Hg-1201 still remaining without a clear answer,
is the reason for the variation of T_(c) with increasing external
pressure. Cao _et al._7 and more recently Qiu _et al._8 have measured
T_(c) in a wide δ range and shown that dT_(c)/dP strongly depends on the
doping level. The underdoped and optimally doped Hg-1201 samples exhibit
initially an increase of T_(c) with pressure up to 6-8 GPa with
dT_(c)/dP = 2 K/GPa, while the latter rate is smaller and becomes even
negative for overdoped samples. These authors concluded that the
superconducting region seems to shrink significantly with P, and, the
T_(c) vs δ dependence changes from inverse parabolic at ambient pressure
to truncated trianglelike above 10 GPa. The T_(c, max ) under pressure
was found to be nearly δ independent around the optimal doping level,
which supports the idea put forward in Ref. 8 that the pressure-induced
charge transfer only plays a minor role in the pressure effect on T_(c).

The experimental T_(c)(P) dependence was analyzed in several theoretical
articles. In Ref. 9, the electronic band-structure calculations were
carried out and the correct sign for the lattice anisotropic
compressibility was obtained. The value of T_(c) is related to the
position of van Hove singularity, depending on the carrier concentration
as well as on the external pressure. In Ref. 10 the authors supposed
that pressure-induced changes in T_(c) are related to two effects: the
charge transfer from the reservoir to the (CuO₂) layer and the
dependence on P of the energy-gap value. The detailed analysis of the
experimental data on the influence of pressure and doping level was
carried out in Ref. 11. These authors showed that in terms of the
indirect-exchange model the observed T_(c)(P, δ) dependence cannot be
explained without considering that the oxygen [in the (CuO₂) layer and
those close to it] has the role of an intermediary in the process of the
electron coupling. From this follows the necessity of considering the
structural reorganization close to the (CuO₂) layer while analyzing the
T_(c)(P, δ) dependence. Thus, the importance of determining the Hg-1201
structure with different doping levels (under, optimally and overdoped)
as a function of pressure is obvious.

Until now the data on the influence of external pressure on the Hg-1201
structure were only obtained for the optimally doped composition
($\delta_{\rm opt}$(≈ 0.12), up to 0.6 GPa (Ref. 12) and up to 5.1 GPa,
[13] and partly for the composition with $\delta_{\rm opt}$(≈ 0.19
(overdoped state). [13] The analysis of the results showed that the main
effect of pressure is the shortening of the apical Cu-O(2) bond length,
while the Hg-O distance in the HgO₂ dumb-bell is practically pressure
independent. For example, the relative variations of these distances are
3.7 ± 0.8

In this article the results of powder neutron-diffraction structural
experiments are presented. They have been carried out on Hg-1201 samples
with δ(≈ 0.06 (underdoped state) and δ(≈ 0.19 (overdoped state) under
external pressures up to about 0.8 GPa. The results are compared with
our earlier data [13] for the optimal and overdoped compositions. The
structure of Hg-1201 at ambient pressure has also been re-termined and
compared to previous work. [14] The analysis of all these structural
data has led us to comprehension of the T_(c) vs δ dependence.

## II Experiment

Three samples of HgBa₂CuO_(4 + δ) were prepared according to the
procedure described in Ref. 15. The syntheses were performed in sealed
silica tubes in a furnace with controlled temperature gradient. The
sample in the underdoped state (sample A, T_(c)(≈ 75 K) in the final
stage of the preparation process was annealed in argon flow at 350
^(∘)C. Sample B which is optimally doped (T_(c)(≈ 97 K), was annealed at
250 ^(∘)C in 1 bar oxygen atmosphere. The third sample (C, overdoped,
T_(c)(≈ 70 K) was annealed at 270 ^(∘)C under an oxygen pressure of 90
bar. The preparation method, the superconducting properties, and the
unit-cell parameters of these samples were similar to the Hg-1201
samples, previously studied with the HRFD diffractometer in Dubna at
ambient pressure. [14]

Neutron-diffraction patterns of A and C samples were measured at the D2B
diffractometer at the ILL (Grenoble) at several values of the external
pressure, while sample B was measured only at ambient pressure. A
high-pressure cell of the "cylinder-piston" type with Fluor Inert liquid
as the pressure-transmitting medium was used to generate the desired
pressures on the sample. The diffraction patterns in the range 20^(∘)<2
θ<150^(∘) were obtained at 0, 0.5, and 0.85 GPa for sample A and at 0,
0.5, and 0.7 GPa for sample C. No peaks from impurity phases were found
in any of the diffraction patterns. The total number of the Bragg
reflections used in the refinement, exceeded 100 in each case. A typical
diffraction pattern measured in the high-pressure cell is shown in Fig.
2. Additionally, the diffraction patterns from samples B and C were
taken at normal conditions without the cell. A diffraction pattern of
sample A at normal conditions was also obtained with the HRFD
diffractometer at Dubna in the range of d spacing 0.77-2.12 A in order
to make a comparison with the previously obtained data, which would
reveal possible systematic errors.

Figure 2: The diffraction pattern of sample C, measured at D2B at a
pressure P = 0.5 GPa and analyzed with the Rietveld method.

The Rietveld refinements were carried out with the use of the gsas and
mria programs. The measured intensity of scattered neutrons was
corrected for the relatively strong absorption of neutrons in Hg-1201
due mainly to the Hg atoms. The neutron absorption cross sections from
Ref. 16 were used. Several hypotheses for the structural model were
checked during the refinements for all compositions. They were: a
deficiency in the occupation of the Hg site, the possibility of
splitting of the Ba site along the c axis, the presence of static
displacements of Hg in the basal plane and of O(2) in a plane parallel
to the basal plane, the disordering of O(3) in the basal plane along the
diagonal of the unit cell, and the possibility of the existence of
additional oxygen in the (0,0.5,0) or (_x_,0.5,0) positions. None of
these hypotheses were found to be statistically significant. This is in
very good agreement with the conclusions drawn recently in Ref. 17.
These authors reported the detailed x-ray-diffraction study of 15
Hg-1201 samples synthesized in sealed quartz tubes with different
nominal Hg and Cu concentrations.

Therefore, the refinements were carried out using the standard
structural model (see, for example, Ref. 14). The occupancy of the
mercury position was fixed at 1 and the oxygen O(3) thermal parameter
was fixed as isotropic at the value of 0.8 A.2 The thermal parameters of
the other atoms were refined in the anisotropic model according to the
respective site symmetry. Since the precise determination of the thermal
parameters was not the scope of the present study, the refined values of
the thermal parameters are presented in the Table 1 only for the
optimally doped compound. No significant changes for these parameters
were observed in the other refinements. The results for the other
compositions and at different values of the external pressure are
presented in Tables 2 and 3.

mation of two holes in the (CuO₂) layer per oxygen atom inserted into
the Hg layer, the standard valences of the atoms are:
V${}_{\rm Ba}$=V${}_{\rm Hg}$=+2, V${}_{\rm O}$=−2, and the optimal
number of holes in the (CuO₂) layer is $n_{\rm opt}$=0.16. The study of
the effect of doping by fluorine, instead of oxygen, in Hg-1201, carried
out by Abakumov _et al._[19] showed that the same T_(c) values in the
oxygen- and fluorine-doped compounds (HgBa₂CuO_(4 + δ) and HgBa₂CuF_(γ))
are obtained for 2 δ≈γ. As the charge of F is hardly different from −1,
the charge of the extra oxygen is equal to −2. In order to explain the
difference between the $\delta_{\rm opt}$ and $n_{\rm opt}$ Abakumov _et
al._[19] made the speculation that the holes induced by the insertion of
oxygen are distributed over the (CuO₂) layers and other parts of the
Hg-1201 structure, e.g., the HgO₂ dumb-bell.

The obtained absolute values of the interatomic distances and the range
of their variations for increasing δ are in good agreement with the
values published in previous neutron-diffraction studies.

### Pressure dependence of the structural parameters

The variations of the a and c unit-cell parameters and the main
interatomic distances in Hg-1201 as the function of pressure are shown
in Figs. 4−6. For the optimally doped sample the points corresponding to
ambient pressure (measured at D2B) are shown and the line slopes
correspond to the compressibilities derived from Ref. [13]. The
compressibilities of the unit-cell parameters and the main interatomic
distances in Hg-1201, defined as κ_(q)= −(1/q) Δq/ΔP
($10^{-3}/{\rm GPa}$), where q is the specific parameter, are presented
in Table 4 and in Fig. 7. In order to calculate Δq/ΔP, the linear
least-squares fits of the experimental points were used. The fits are
shown in Figs. 4−6. For comparison, the compressibilities calculated
from the data of Ref. [12], corresponding to the optimally doped Hg
-1201 sample, are also presented in Table 4.

The pressure dependence of the Hg-1201 unit-cell parameters show that
the occupation of the O(3) position does not

Table 4: Compressibilities of the lattice parameters and the main
distances in Hg-1201. The compressibility is defined as
κ_(q) = −(1/q)Δq/ΔP (10⁻³/GPa).

cations. In the under- and optimally doped structures pressure causes
the shortening of the Ba-O(1) separation and a smaller compression of
the Cu-O(2) bond. Such variation of the atomic interactions due to the
change of extra oxygen content can be one of the reasons for the
enhancement of the charge transfer from the reservoir block to the
conducting (CuO2) layers in the overdoped state in comparison with under
and optimally-doped superconductors.

One of the most discussed questions in the literature is why T_(c)(P)
for the Hg-1201 phases varies differently with the different doping
level. This subject is discussed in a few theoretical articles.[70, 11,
18] Even though each is based on various models, all conclude that there
are two main reasons the T_(c) change: the increase of T_(c, max ) in
Eq. (1) and the variation of the charge-carrier density in the (CuO2)
layer due to the charge transfer from the reservoir. From the
experimental data on the T_(c) vs P and δ dependence presented in Ref.
[7] it follows that dT_(c)/dP≈ const≈ 2 K/GPa for
δ$\approx\,\delta_{\rm opt}$ at least up to 1.5 GPa pressures. The
analysis of Eq. (1) shows that in this case the pressure-induced charge
transfer, dn/dP, would have to decrease for increasing δ, vanishing at δ
= $\delta_{\rm opt}$. The absolute value of the charge transfer is very
small, not higher than 0.002 holes/GPa for the underdoped state.[10, 20]
From the homogeneous character of the structure compression revealed in
the present study one can conclude that the effect of the charge
transfer from the reservoir to the (CuO2) layers does not play the
dominant role in the Hg-1201 structure under pressure at
δ$\approx\,\delta_{\rm opt}$. At the same time, the strong shift of the
Ba atoms in the overdoped state toward the (HgO_(δ)) layer under applied
pressure may be considered as the signature of a significant charge
transfer into the (CuO2) layer, leading to a stronger overdoping, thus
decreasing T_(c).

## IV Conclusions

In the present article we have presented a neutron-diffraction study of
Hg-1201 under high pressure at low and high extra oxygen concentrations
in the Hg layer (under- and overdoped states). The results are analyzed
together with previous data.[13, 14] The main conclusions are as
follows:

The superconductor HgBa₂CuO_(4 + δ), prepared according to the procedure
described in Ref. [15] is a cation-stoichiometric compound exhibiting
the highest T_(c) at the oxygen concentration in the Hg layer
$\delta_{\rm opt}$= 0.13± 0.01. This oxygen is only situated in the
center of the Hg layer. The value of $\delta_{\rm opt}$ was determined
by the measurements of seven Hg-1201 at three diffractometers, two of
which (D2B and 3T2) are of the classical type with λ= const, while the
third (HRFD) utilizes the time-of-flight technique. All the measured
points of the T_(c)(δ) dependence lie on one curve which strongly
indicates that the $\delta_{\rm opt}$ value is realistic.

At low O_(δ) concentration the Hg-1201 structure compresses uniformly,
i.e., the compressibilities of the main interatomic distances correspond
to the unit-cell compressibility. However, at higher O_(δ)
concentrations the Hg-O(2) and Ba-O(1) bonds become practically
incompressible, while the Cu-O(2) and Ba-O(3) undergo a strong
compression. The analysis of the interatomic distances variations allows
us to propose that in the under and optimally doped states the charge
transfer from the reservoir to the (CuO2) layers plays a minor role. The
enhancement of T_(c) under pressure is due to an increase of the
T_(c, max ) value. The decrease of T_(c) under applied pressure for the
overdoped Hg-1201 superconductor may be explained by charge-transfer
enhancing overdoping.

## Acknowledgments

The authors would like to thank Dr. V.A. Alyoshin and D.A. Mikhailova
for the sample preparations, and Dr. P.E. Kazin for the magnetic
measurements. The work was carried out with the support of the INTAS
(93-2483ext and 95-639), the Russian Scientific Council on
Superconductivity (Poisk), and the Russian Foundation for Basic Research
(96-02-17823, 97-02-16622, and 97-02-17103).

## References

* [1] S.N. Putilin, E.V. Antipov, O. Chmaissem, and M. Marezio, Nature
(London) **362**, 226 (1993). * [2] Q. Huang, J.W. Lynn, Q. Xiong, and
C.W. Chu, Phys. Rev. B **52**, 462 (1995). * [3] A. Fukuoka, A.
Tokowa-Yamamoto, M. Itoh, R. Usami, S. Adachi, H. Yamauchi, and K.
Tanabe, Physica C **265**, 13 (1996). * [4] M.R. Presland, J.L. Tallon,
R.G. Buckley, R.S. Liu, and N.E. Flower, Physica C **176**, 95 (1991). *
[5] O. Chmaissem, J.D. Jorgensen, D.G. Hinks, J.L. Wagner, B. Dabrowski,
and J.F. Mitchell, Physica B **241-243**, 805 (1998). * [6] O.
Chmaissem, Q. Huang, S.N. Putilin, M. Marezio, and A. Santoro, Physica C
**212**, 259 (1993). * [7] Y. Cao, Q. Xiong, Y.Y. Xue, and C.W. Chu,
Phys. Rev. B **52**, 6854 (1995). * [8] X.D. Qui, Q. Xiong, L. Gao, Y.
Cao, Y.Y. Xue, and C.W. Chu, Physica C **282-287**, 885 (1997). * [9]
D.L. Novikov, O.N. Mryasov, and A.J. Freeman, Physica C **222**, 38
(1994). * [10] E.V.L. de Mello and C. Acha, Phys. Rev. B **56**, 466
(1997). * [11] L. Jansen and R. Block, Physica A **230**, 467 (1996). *
[12] B.A. Hunter, J.D. Jorgensen, J.L. Wagner, P.G. Radaelli, D.G.
Hinks, H. Shaked, and R.L. Hitterman, Physica C **221**, 1 (1994). *
[13] V.L. Aksenov, A.M. Balagurov, B.N. Savenko, D.V. Sheptyakov, V.P.
Glazkov, V.A. Somenkov, S.Sh. Shishtein, E.V. Antipov, and S.N. Putilin,
Physica C **275**, 87 (1997). * [14] V.L. Aksenov, A.M. Balagurov, V.V.
Sikolenko, V.G. Simkin, V.A. Alyoshin, E.V. Antipov, A.A. Gippius, D.A.
Mikhailova, S.N. Putilin, and F. Bouree, Phys. Rev. B **55**, 3966
(1997). * [15] V.A. Alyoshin, D.A. Mikhailova, and E.V. Antipov, Physica
C **255**, 173 (1995). * [16] V. Sears, Neutron News **3**, 26 (1992). *
[17] J.P. Hodges, I. Gameson, P.P. Edwards, A.P. Kharel, and A. Porch,
Phys. Rev. B **55**, 12 776 (1997). * [18] D.L. Novikov, M.I.
Katsnelson, J. Yu, A.V. Postnikov, and A.J. Freeman, Phys. Rev. B
**54**, 1313 (1996). * [19] A.M. Abakumov, V.L. Aksenov, V.A. Alyoshin,
E.V. Antipov, A.M. Balagurov, D.A. Mikhailova, S.N. Putilin, and M.G.
Rozova, Phys. Rev. Lett. **80**, 385 (1998). * [20] X. Chen and Z. Jiao,
Phys. Rev. B **56**, 6302 (1997).
