Superconductivity and physical properties of Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀ determined from
electric transport, specific-heat capacity, and magnetic susceptibility
measurements

Takeshi Rachi

Harukazu Yoshino

Ryotaro Kumashiro

Masaki Kitajima

Kensuke Kobayashi

Keiichi Yokogawa

Noriaki Kimura

Haruyoshi Aoki

Hiroshi Fukuoka

Syoji Yamanaka

Hidekazu Shimotani

Yoshihiro Iwasa

Takahiko Sasaki

Nori Kobayashi

Yuji Miyazaki

Kazuya Saito

FangZhun Guo

Kesiuske Kobayashi

Keiichi Osaka

Kenichi Kato

Masaki Takata

Katsumi Tanigaki

Department of Physics, Graduate School of Science, Tohoku University,
3-3-138 Sugimoto, Sumiyoshi, Osaka 558-8585, Japan Department of
Physics, Graduate School of Science, Tohoku University, 6-3 Aoba Aramaki
Aoba-ku, Sendai, Miyagi 980-8578, Japan Department of Applied Chemistry,
Faculty of Engineering, Hiroshima University, Higashi-Hiroshima,
Hiroshima 739-8527, Japan Institute for Materials Research, Tohoku
University and CREST-JST, 2-1-1 Katahira, Aoba-ku, Sendai 980-8577,
Japan Institute for Materials Research, Tohoku University, 2-1-1
Katahira, Aoba-ku, Sendai 980-8577, Japan Institute for Materials
Research, Tohoku University, 2-1-1 Katahira, Aoba-ku, Sendai 980-8577,
Japan Department of Chemistry, Graduate School of Science, Osaka
University, Toyonaka, Osaka 560-0043, Japan Department of Chemistry,
Faculty of Science, Tsukuba University, 1-1-1 Tennoudai, Tsukuba,
Ibaraki, Japan SPring-8, Japan Synchrotron Radiation Research Institute,
1-1-1 Kouto Mikazuki-cho Sayo-gun Hyogo 679-5198, Japan

###### Abstract

Both Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀ and Ba₂₄Ge₁₀₀ with crystallographically identical
structure are found to be superconducting at 1.4 and 0.27 K,
respectively. Physical properties of this superconductor Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀ are
studied by electric transport, specific heat capacity, and magnetic
susceptibility measurements. The density of states at the Fermi level
N_(Eg)=0.148 states eV⁻¹ (Si atom)⁻¹ and a distinct jump of C_(p) at the
superconducting transition temperature ΔC_(p)=0.272 J K⁻¹ mol⁻¹ are
obtained. An exponential fit of C_(p) below the superconducting states
gives an energy gap 2Δ=0.423 meV and shows that this is a superconductor
having s-wave character or isotropic energy gap. On the basis of our
experimental data other important physical parameters are also derived.

pacs: 10.1103/PhysRevB.72.144504 + Footnote †: preprint: PYSICAL REVIEW
D **72**, 144504 (2005)

## I Introduction

Among a variety of clathrates so far reported, [1] the three types as
shown in Fig. 1 have intensively been studied. The superconducting
silicon network solid was discovered for Na₂Ba₆Si₄₆ by Yamanaka’s group
in 1995, [2] where Na and Ba atoms are accommodated as endohedral
elements inside the silicon polyhedra of Si₂₀ and Si₂₄ in the type I
clathrates. Subsequently, a binary system Ba₈Si₄₆ was successfully
synthesized by the same group using high pressure syntheses. [3]
Although the attempts to synthesize Ge₄₆ compounds with the
crystallographically identical structure have been made, no apparent
such success has so far been reported. [4] In contrast to Si₄₆ network
system (type I clathrate), the superconductivity in the type III
clathrates was found in Ba₂₄Ge₁₀₀ (Ref. [5]) by the group from the
MaxPlanck Institute at Dresden. [6] Although the superconducting
transition temperature of T_(c) at 270 mK found in Ba₂₄Ge₁₀₀ was very
low, T_(c) rises up to 3.8 K by applying pressure. This is categorized
to one that can be very unique like a certain group of high T_(c) copper
oxide superconductors. Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀ with the identical crystal structure to
that of Ba₂₄Ge₁₀₀ (Refs. [5] and [7]) was synthesized under high
pressure, [8] but superconductivity was not reported at that time.
However, our recent soft x-ray studies on Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀ showed that the
density of states at the Fermi level is sufficiently large and the
superconductivity has been searched for a high quality sample.

In the present paper, we have shown that the both silicon and germanium
clathrates of Ba₂₄V₁₀₀ (IV=Si and Ge) with

Figure 1: (Color online) Three types of clathrates classified from type
I to III. The type I consists of IV₂₀ dodecahedra and IV₂₄,
tetrakaidecahedra and the type II consists of IV₂₀ and IV₂₈
hexa-kaidecahedra. The type III contains closed IV₂₀ with helical
geometry, pseudocubic cases and open cages. The three kinds of cages are
also shown using a ball and stick model.

identical crystal structure are superconductors. Because this a
situation that superconductivity occurs both in the Si and Ge polyhedral
network solids with crystallographically identical structure after the
discovery of superconductivity for these families in 1995, the direct
comparison on the fundamental physical parameters between these two
superconductors shall give many important insights into the mechanism of
superconductivity.[9, 10, 11]

We will exemplify that many physical properties are very much
differentiated between Si and Ge polyhedral network solids even if their
crystal structures are identical. Especially, it will be highlighted
that T_(c) changes toward a reverse direction between Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀ and
Ba₂₄Ge₁₀₀ upon high pressure. We will discuss the physical properties
using the experimental data obtained from specific heat capacity C_(p)
and magnetic susceptibility χ measurements. The evolution of C_(p) and χ
as a function of temperature unambiguously shows that the system can be
featured by a large electron-phonon coupling parameter.

## II Experiment

Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀ was synthesized under high pressure according to the previous
method.[8] It is noted that to improve the quality, precise control of
both temperature and pressure was needed. Otherwise, superconducting
Ba₈Si₄₆ and BaSi₂ were also produced as contaminants. To obtain x-ray
powder diffraction data of good counting statistics with high angular
resolution, measurements were carried out at the SPring-8 BL02B2 beam
line.[12] For specific heat capacity measurements PPMS (Quantum Design),
with a ³He dilution cryo-generator and a heat capacity cell, was used.
The ingot Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀ sample weighted by 2.7 mg was put on a platform with
four straight wires to measure C_(p). In order to figure out the
rattling motion, the same measurements were repeated three times at low
temperatures below 20 K. Magnetic susceptibilities were measured by a
superconducting quantum interference device (SQUID) (Quantum Design
MPMS7) system. Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀ generally of 7.0 mg was wrapped by a thin
plastic film for measurements. Magnetic susceptibilities of the
conduction electrons were obtained by subtracting the magnetic moment
values measured under 4 T from those under 6 T with a correction of the
temperature dependent Curie term.

## III Results and Discussion

### Electric transport

The four-probe transport measurement using a ³He cryostat system showed
that Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀ enters into a superconducting state at 1.4 K as shown in
Fig. 2. No electronic phase transitions were observed until the
superconductivity occurs, being different from that of Ba₂₄Ge₁₀₀ where a
large resistivity upturn is reported at 200 K.[13] The resistivity at
room temperature reduces to one fifth with decreasing temperature. It is
very important to emphasize that superconductivity occurs both in Si and
Ge networks with the identical crystal structure, like diamond Si and
Ge, and this is such an example.

We have employed ac susceptibility experiments on this sample in order
to confirm whether the observed superconductivity is bulk
superconductivity as shown in the inset of Fig. 2. The volume of
Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀ was estimated to be 1.44 mm³ using the lattice parameter of
a₀=1.407 nm obtained from x-ray analyses. Although the absolute
quantitative analyses need the diamagnetic corrections, the ac
susceptibilities calibrated by In (0.73 mm³) and Sn (0.49 mm³) as
internal standards indicates that Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀ is a real bulk
superconductor.

It is reported that the T_(c) observed in Ba₂₄Ge₁₀₀ at ∼270 mK was
eventually elevated until 3.8 K by applying pressure of 2.7 GPa.[6]
which is generally very unusual in the conventional superconductors.
Therefore, we have repeated the experiments. As shown in Fig. 3 (right),
the T_(c) actually rises to 3.2 K under 1.5 GPa. We have also examined
how the T_(c) of Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀ changes upon pressure until 1.15 GPa and
found that, in contrast to the situation encountered for Ba₂₄Ge₁₀₀, the
T_(c) decreases a little as shown in Fig. 3 (left). No structural change
has been confirmed in Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀ by x-ray diffraction studies under high
pressure up to 3 GPa and this is also consistent with the recent high
pressure Raman studies.[14]

The temperature dependence of the resistivity was not perfectly linear,
and small deformation was observed. Since the lattice parameter of the
network does not significantly change, such deformation will not be due
to the change in the polyhedral framework. The rattling motion of Ba
atoms inside the cluster cages may be related to this phenomenon.
Actually, as reported in the crystallographically identical Ba₂₄Ge₁₀₀
with a larger accommodation space inside the cluster cage, resistivity
drastically changes at 200 K from

Figure 2: dc resistivity and ac susceptibility (inset) of Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀. The
observed values of the ac susceptibilities depend on the geometry of
samples and are generally expressed by χ_(obs)=−(1/4π) ×1/(1−(N/4π)),
where N is the geometry factor. The shape of Sn was spherical (N=4π/3)
while that of Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀ and In was spheroidal like. Considering the
geometrical correction for such shapes of the measured samples gave
almost 100

a high metallic state to a low metallic one.[13] It should be noted that
the resistivity at 300 K of Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀ is 50 mΩ cm and this is larger by
50 times than 1 mΩ cm of Ba₂₄Ge₁₀₀ at 300 K.

### Magnetic susceptibilities

The magnetic susceptibility of Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀, measured under high magnetic
fields using SQUID, was nearly temperature independent and indicates
Pauli magnetism. The isolated spin number giving the Curie term
appearing at low temperatures was estimated to be 0.063 spins (Si₁₀₀)⁻¹
(in the present case, per lattice) and was apparently ascribed to the
defects in the crystal. The temperature evolutions of the magnetic
susceptibilities after the correction of Curie terms are shown in Fig.
4. The temperature-independent value χ_(cant) was −1.54 ± 0.12 × 10⁻³
emu (Si₁₀₀ mol)⁻¹ considering the scattering error of the present data.
In the same figure, χ_(cant) of Ba₂₄Ge₁₀₀ is also displayed at low
temperatures and high temperatures straddling the electronic phase
transition at 200 K. For extracting the intrinsic Pauli magnetic terms
from these data, core diamagnetic susceptibilities were calculated using
the values in the literature: −24 × 10⁻⁶ for Ba²⁺, −3.1 × 10⁻⁶ for Si,
and −7.7 × 10⁻⁶ emu mol⁻¹ for Ge, giving χ_(core) values of
−0.888 × 10⁻³ for Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀ and −1.35 × 10⁻³ emu mol⁻¹ for Ba₂₄Ge₁₀₀.

Although the concept of diamagnetic susceptibilities produced from the
ring current χ_(ring) in the polyhedral cluster solids has not fully
been established, such corrections are known to be needed.[4] Using the
modified Pauling’s formula for handling the Larmor diamagnetic
susceptibility, χ_(ring) = [2N_(a)e²/(6mc²)](r²) emu mol⁻¹,[15]χ_(ring)
is evaluated to be −3.28 × 10⁻³ for Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀ and −3.59 × 10⁻³emu mol⁻¹
for Ba₂₄Ge₁₀₀. In the formula, Z denotes the number of electrons
involved in the cyclic ring current formation, N_(A) is Avogadro’s
number, e is the Coulomb charge of an electron, m is the mass of an
electron, and c is the speed of light. We used the number of elements
constructing polyhedral IV₂₀ in the Bravais lattice as Z. These
corrections gave the χ_(Pauli) values to be 2.63 × 10⁻³ for Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀ as
well as 2.79 ×10⁻³ for high-T and 2.10 × 10⁻³emu mol⁻¹ for low-T phases
of Ba₂₄Ge₁₀₀.

Another method of estimation for χ_(Pauli) has been made. Knowing that
the ratio of N_(E_(F)) values in high-T phase to that in low-T phase of
Ba₂₄Ge₁₀₀, achieved from soft x-ray photoelectron spectroscopy
(XPS),[16] the χ_(Pauli) values can be directly extracted. We have
studied the electronic states in the vicinity at the Fermi level using
XPS at a high energy radiation facility. As shown in Fig. 5, the density
of states at the Fermi level N_(E_(F)) of Ba₂₄Ge₁₀₀ measured at 300 K
reduced at 20 K to a very low value. The change in N_(E_(F)) observed at
20 K is due to the electronic phase transition, being consistent with
the idea of the rattling motion of the endohedral Ba atoms.[6] These
situations are consistent with maximum entropy method (MEM) analyses
described later in the present paper.

By optimizing the value of χ_(dia) as an off-set parameter so that the
N_(E_(F)) observed by XPS can be explained, the

Figure 4: Magnetic susceptibilities of Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀ and Ba₂₄Ge₁₀₀ after the
correction of Curie terms.

Figure 5: Electronic states of Ba₂₄Ge₁₀₀ in the vicinity at the Fermi
levels measured by soft x-ray spectroscopy at 300 and 20 K. The spectra
were normalized by the Ba Sp core spectrum intensity.

Figure 3: (Color online) The evolution of resistivities as a function of
pressure for Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀ (left) and Ba₂₄Ge₁₀₀ (right).

χ_(Pauli)=χ_(const)-χ_(dia) can be evaluated. This method gives more
reliable experimental diamagnetic susceptibility χ_(dia) of Ba₂₄Ge₁₀₀ to
be −3.11 × 10⁻³ emu mol⁻¹. When the value of Ba₂₄Ge₁₀₀ is scaled to that
of Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀ using the ratio in χ_(ring) described earlier, χ_(dia) of
Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀ is estimated to be −2.50 × 10⁻³ emu mol⁻¹. As a result, the
χ_(Pauli) values can be obtained to be 9.59 × 10⁻⁶ emu (Si mol⁻¹) for
Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀, 9.65 × 10⁻⁶ emu (Ge mol⁻¹) for the high-T phase, and
2.75 × 10⁻⁶ emu (Ge mol⁻¹) for the low-T phase of Ba₂₄Ge₁₀₀. From the
relationship χ_(Pauli)=2μ_(B)²N_(E_(F)), the N_(E_(F)) values are
determined to be 0.148 states eV⁻¹ (Si atom)⁻¹ for Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀, 0.149
states eV⁻¹ (Ge atom)⁻¹ for the high-T phase, and 0.0427 states eV⁻¹ (Ge
atom)⁻¹ for the low-T phase of Ba₂₄Ge₁₀₀.

There are three kinds of Ba atoms in Ba₂₄_IV₁₀₀_ (_IV_=Si and Ge) from
the crystallographical viewpoint as is seen in Fig. 1. In order to see
the differences in the rattling motion of Ba between Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀ and
Ba₂₄Ge₁₀₀, a MEM/Rietveld method [17] has been performed. The MEM
analysis was carried out with a program ENIGMA [18]. Figure 6 showed the
equi-charge-density surfaces of these three kinds of Ba atoms at 80 K.
Immediately we can recognize that the Ba(3) accommodated in the open
cage structure rattles in a very anisotropic fashion, while Ba(1) and
Ba(2) atoms do isotropically in the case of the Ge₁₀₀ network. When
similar analyses were adopted to the Si₁₀₀ network, such anisotropic
electron distributions were not observed even at 80 K. The Ba(3) atoms
showing large thermal vibrations at high temperatures will eventually
move to a specific trapping site and the equi-charge-density surface
will statically become very anisotropic. The reason that such motion was
not observed, even in the Ba(3) position in the case of Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀, is
not apparent at the present stage. It is, however, conceivable that the
hybridization of Ba 5d and 6s orbitals and the 3d orbitals of the Ge
polyhedra may play an important role in controlling such a rattling
motion other than a larger space in the Ge₁₀₀ network than that in Si₁₀₀
one.

### Specific heat capacity

Specific heat capacity C_(p) of Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀ is shown in Fig. 7. The
specific heat jump at T_(c)=1.4 K corresponds to the superconducting
phase transition observed in electric transport. The evolution of C_(p)
as a function of temperature under the superconducting state can be
fitted well using an exponential function of C_(p)∼exp[−Δ/k_(B)T] better
than T^(α) function as shown in Fig. 7. This indicates that the
superconductivity can be categorized as an s-wave superconductor or a
superconductor having an isotropic energy gap. The superconducting
energy gap can be estimated to be 2Δ=0.423 meV. It is noted here that
the C_(p) data below 8 K scatters to a small extent. Considering the
fact that C_(p) greatly changes at 200 K in Ba₂₄Ge₁₀₀ due to the
influences of the Ba rattling in the open cage structure [13], this
phenomenon will be most likely due to the rattled Ba atoms. Although we
do not have any exact explanations on this unconventional feature, this
was gradually suppressed while the temperature scans were repeated.
Therefore, nevertheless of the C_(p) fluctuations, the Sommerfeld
parameter γ was able to be estimated as 0.182 J K⁻² mol⁻¹, from the
C_(p) by applying a standard method of the C_(p)/T vs T² relationship.
When ΔC_(p)/γT_(c) =1.43 derived in the weak coupling BCS regime is
applied, the γ value was determined to be 0.136 J K⁻² mol⁻¹ as another
estimation of γ. These γ values in turn give N_(E_(F)) to be 0.386 and
0.288 states eV⁻¹ (Si atom)⁻¹, respectively.

Owing to the rattling phonons existing at low temperatures, Debye Θ_(D)
and Einstein Θ_(E) terms may not be obtained with good accuracy directly
from the experimental data. Therefore, the Θ_(D) value was empirically
estimated using the Θ_(D) and Θ_(E) values of Ba₂₄Ge₁₀₀. For this
purpose, the following equation can be applied:

Θ_(D)(Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀) ∼ [a₀(Ba₂₄Ge₁₀₀)/a₀(Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀)]
×[v(diamond Si)/v(diamond Ge)]
×Θ_(D)(Ba₂₄Ge₁₀₀),

where v is the sound velocity. Because the Ba rattling occurs

Figure 6: (Color online) The equi-charge-density surfaces of Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀
and Ba₂₄Ge₁₀₀ obtained by MEM analyses for high resolution x-ray data at
80 K.

Figure 7: (Color online) Specific heat capacity C_(p) of Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀. The
grey solid lines display fitting curves as explained in the text using
γ=0.182 J K⁻² mol⁻¹, Θ_(D)=411 K, and Θ_(E)=46 and 108 K.

at a relatively high temperature of 200 K, hence, it will give little
influence on the analyses. From this equation Th_D_ =411 K was estimated
for Ba24Si100 when _v_(_diamond_ Si) =5.88 x 103 m s-1, _v_(_diamond_
Ge) =3.55 x 103 m s-1 and Th_D_p_=240 K for Ba24Ge100 (Ref. [13]) were
used. The Einstein Th_E_ term was also been empirically scaled by the
lattice parameters a0 between Ba24Si100 and Ba24Ge100. The correlation
between Th_E_ values and lattice parameters can be seen for skutterudite
and pyrochlore compounds.[19] When the Th_E_ values of 44 and 104 K of
Ba24Ge100 were employed,[13] th_E_=46 and 108 K were obtained using
Th_E_(Ba24Si100) =[_a_0(Ba24Ge100)/_a_0(Ba24Si100)] x _th_E_(Ba24Ge100).

Another estimate for the Debye Th_D_ and the Einstein Th_E_ values could
also be possible using the phonon frequency o data using
Th_D_,_E_(Ba24Si100) =[_a_0(Ba24Si100)/_a_0(Ba24Ge100)] x
_th_D_,_E_(Ba24Ge100). In order to evaluate the o values, Raman spectra
have been measured and are shown in Fig. 8. Considering the frequency
shift observed between 520 cm-1 for 28Si and 300 cm-1 for 74Ge, the
observed shift of 395 cm-1 for Ba24Si100 and 235 cm-1 for Ba24Ge100 can
be assigned to the vibrational frequencies of the polyhedral networks.
The modes having frequencies below 200 cm-1 observed simultaneously both
for Ba24Si100 and Ba24Ge100 may be assigned to the Ba modes, but the
assignment is very much uncertain at the moment. The frequencies with a
less shift ranging from 200 to 300 cm-1 will be ascribed to the Si-Ba
and the Ge-Ba vibrational modes. These data are consistent with the
recent report.[13] Using the frequencies of 395 and 235 cm-1 together
with Th_D_p_=240 K of Ba24Ge100,[6, 13] Th_D_ of Ba24Si100 was estimated
to be 403 K. This is in fairly good agreement with the value estimated
using the sound velocity. Due to the experimental inaccuracy in the
vibrational modes of the endohedral Ba, Th_E_ values were not estimated
in the present study.

The Debye and Einstein temperature parameters and the g estimated
earlier from D_C_p_ can satisfactorily explain the experimental _C_p_
data of Ba24Si100, although the influences of the Ba rattling phonons
still may scatter the observation for the data.

### Superconducting parameters of Ba24Si100

In the concept of the Zintl phase[20] for
(Ba2+)24([3_b_]Ge1+)32([4_b_]Ge06)68(16_e_-),[13] 16 electrons per
Bravais lattice will be considered. Using the lattice constant of 1.407
nm for Ba24Si100, the electron carrier concentration is 5.75 x 1021
cm-3. This is roughly consistent with the carrier concentration n of
2.60 x 1021 cm-3 obtained by measurements of the Seebeck coefficient.
Applying a three-dimensional electron model to Ba24Si100 supposing the
carrier concentration of 2.60 x 1021 cm-3, Fermi wave number k_(F) of
4.25 x 107 cm-1 is obtained. Using the equations of
_kh__F_n_n_=2_k__B__B__T_n_/(2 2 2 2 2 2)] k_(F) and _g_=[_k__B__T_n_/(3
2 2 2)] k_(F), _kh__F__n_/ and _g__n_calc_ can be estimated to be 5.09 x
10-4 emu mol-1 and 0.0371 J K-2 mol-1. Although the Ba rattling
influences on the specific heat capacity as is pointed out earlier, it
is indeed meaningful to have a large enhancement in the experimental g
value ranging from 0.136 to 0.182 J K-2 mol-1. Actually, the Wilson
factor _k__W_=( p2_k__B__T_n_/2 2)(_kh__F_n_/ _g_), calculated from the
experimental _kh__F_n_/ and g_(n), is from 0.38 to 0.51 and
significantly small. This fact indicates that the system is controlled
greatly by electron-phonon interactions rather than electron-electron
ones.

In order to explain the T_(c) of 1.4 K using the McMillan equation,
T_(c) = [(Θ_(D))/1.45]exp[−[1.04(1 + λ)]/[λ − μ^(*)(1 + 0.62λ)]λ, =0.399
is needed for Th_D_p_=411 K if one can suppose _m_’ = 0.1 (the general
value of _m_’ ranges from 0.1 to 0.2). Here k =_N__E__F__V_, V is the
electron-phonon coupling parameter, and _m_’ is the electron-electron
repulsive screening parameter to the Cooper pairing attractive force. If
this is the case, a large electron-phonon coupling strength must be
constrained in this system considering that the _N__E__F_ is small.

From the evolution of specific heat as a function of magnetic field,
[_d__t__c_2/ _d__T_] can be estimated as a linear plot of _H__c_2 vs
T_(c). Using the WHH equation of 0.69 x [_d__t__c_2/ _d__T_] =_g_T__c_,
the upper critical field of _H__c_2(_T_ =0) was extrapolated to be 0.24
T. This leads to a Ginzburg-Landau coherence length x to be 372 A using
_g_=[Φ₀/[2πH_(c)(2T=0)]] 1/2. The mean free path t of conduction
electrons can be estimated to be 0.67 A using _t_=_mv__F_/(_n_e_2). Here
the resistivity r = 10 mJ cm and Fermi velocity _v__F_=_h__k__F_/_m_ of
4.92 x 107 cm s-1 were employed, and k_(F) for the carrier concentration
was estimated by the Seebeck coefficient. This concludes that Ba24Si100
is a superconductor classified as a dirty limit of t x.

## IV Conclusion

Ba24Si100 was reported to superconduct like Ba24Ge100. Physical
parameters were obtained for the Ba24Si100 superconductor from
resistivity, specific heat capacity, and ac and dc magnetic
susceptibility measurements. The physical parameters derived by these
experiments implied that this system can be featured by the extremely
strong electron-phonon coupling strength and is a superconductor in the
dirty limit. The endohedral Ba atom rattling motion seems to be closely
associated with this strong _e_-ph coupling parameter from the
experimental viewpoint and this may open a route for searching exotic
materials in the future.

Figure 8: Raman spectra measured for Ba24Si100 and Ba24Ge100 at 300 K.
For comparison, the spectra of BaSi2, Si, and Ge in the diamond type are
displayed. The arrows indicate the corresponding shifts between Si and
Ge as described in the text.

_Note Added in Proof._ Recently, the superconductivity of Ba₂₄**Si₁₀₀**
was also confirmed [21].

###### Acknowledgements.

The synchrotron radiation experiments were performed by the approval of
the Japan Synchrotron Radiation Research Institute (JASRI) as a
Nanotechnology Support Project. This work was supported by Creation of
Nano Devices and Systems Based on New Physical Phenomena and Functional
Principles of CREST of JST. The present work is also partially supported
by the Tohoku University 21st century COE program "Particle-Matter
Hierarchy" of MEXT, Japan. This work was performed by a Grant-in-Aid
from the Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology
of Japan, No. 13304031, 17038801, and 17710088.

## References

* [1] Y. Mudryk, P. Rogl, C. Paul, S. Berger, E. Bauer, G. Hilscher, C.
Godart, and H. Noel, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter **14** 7991 (2002). * [2]
H. Kawaji, H. O. Horie, S. Yamanaka, and M. Ishikawa, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**74**, 1427 (1995). * [3] S. Yamanaka, E. Enishi, H. Fukuoka, and M.
Yasukawa, Inorg. Chem. **39**, 56 (2000). * [4] R. F. W. Herrmann, K.
Tanigaki, T. Kawaguchi, S. Kuroshima, and O. Zhou, Phys. Rev. B **60**,
13245 (1999). * [5] W. Carrilo-Cabrera, J. Curda, H. G. von Schnering,
S. Pachen, and Yu. Grin, Z. Kristallogr. **215**, 207 (2000);W.
Carrillo-Cabrera, H. Borrmann, S. Paschen, M. Baenitz, F. Steglich, and
Y. Grin, J. Solid State Chem. **178**, 715 (2005). * [6] F. M. Grosche,
H. O. Yuan, W. Carrillo-Cabrera, S. Paschen, C. Langhammer, F. Kromer,
G. Sparn, M. Baenitz, Yu. Grin, and F. Steglich, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**87**, 247003 (2001). * [7] H. Fukuoka, K. Iwai, S. Yamanaka, H. Abe,
K. Yoza, and L. Haming, J. Solid State Chem. **151**, 117 (2000). * [8]
H. Fukuoka, K. Ueno, and S. Yamanaka, J. Organomet. Chem. **611**, 543
(2000). * [9] K. Tanigaki, T. Shimuzu, K. M. Itoh, J. Teraoka, Y.
Moritomo, and S. Yamanaka, Nat. Mater. **2**, 653 (2003). * [10] D.
Connetable, V. Timoshevskii, B. Masanelli, J. Beille, J. Marcus, B.
Barbara, A. M. Saitta, G. M. Rignanese, P. Mlinon, S. Yamanaka, and X.
Blase, Phys. Rev. Lett. **91**, 247001 (2003). * [11] T. Rachi, K.
Tanigaki, R. Kumashiro, J. Winter, and H. Kuzmany, Chem. Phys. Lett.
**409**, 48 (2005). * [12] E. Nishibori, M. Takata, K. Kato, M. Sakata,
Y. Kubota, S. Aoyagi, Y. Kuroiwa, M. Yamakata, and N. Ikeda, Nucl.
Instrum. Methods Phys. Res. A **467-468**, 1045 (2001). * [13] S.
Paschen, V. H. Tran, M. Baenitz, W. Carrillo-Cabrera, Y. Grin, and F.
Steglich, Phys. Rev. B **65**, 134435 (2002). * [14] H. Shimizu, T.
Kume, T. Kuroda, S. Sasaki, H. Fukuoka, and S. Yamanaka Phys. Rev. B
**71**, 094108 (2005). * [15] R. C. Haddon, L. F. Schneemeyer, J. V.
Waszczak, S. H. Glarum, R. Tycko, G. Dabbagh, A. R. Kortan, A. J.
Muller, A. M. Mujsce, M. J. Rosseinsky, S. M. Zahurak, A. V. Makhija, F.
A. Thiel, K. Raghavachari, E. Cockayne, and V. Elser, Nature **350**, 47
(1991). * [16] T. Rachi, M. Kitajima, K. Kobayashi, FZ. Guo, T. Nakano,
Y. Ikemoto, K. Kobayashi, and K. Tanigaki, J. Chem. Phys. **123**,
074503 (2005). * [17] M. Takata, E. Nishibori, and M. Sakata, Z.
Kristallogr. **216** 71 (2001). * [18] H. Tanaka, M. Takata. E.
Nishibori, K. Kato, T. Ishii, and M. Sakata,J. Appl. Crystallogr. **35**
282 (2002). * [19] D. Cao, F. Bridges, P. Chesler, S. Bushart, E. D.
Bauer, and M. B. Maple, Phys. Rev. B **70**, 094109 (2004). * [20] H.
Schafer, Annu. Rev. Mater. Sci. **15**, 1 (1985). * [21] R. Viennois, P.
Toulemonde, C. Paulsen, and A. San-Miguel, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter
**17**, L311 (2005).
