Synthesis, structure, and properties of the high-temperature
superconductor HgBa₂CuO_(4 + δ)

J. P. Hodges, I. Gameson, and P. P. Edwards*

School of Chemistry, The University of Birmingham, Edgbaston,
Birmingham, B15 2TT, United Kingdom

A. P. Kharel and A. Porch

School of Electrical Engineering, The University of Birmingham,
Edgbaston, Birmingham, B15 2TT, United Kingdom

###### Abstract

We report here the attempted synthesis of
(Hg_(1 − x)Cu_(x))Ba₂CuO_(4 + δ) (0≤_x_≤0.2, 0≤_y_≤0.2, _y_≤_x_) and the
results of a detailed characterization of the structural and
superconducting properties of the resulting samples. Rietveld refinement
of powder x-ray-diffraction data collected on all 15 samples synthesized
found no partial Cu occupancy of the Hg site. We therefore conclude that
for these samples no solid solution exists and the superconducting phase
is simply HgBa₂CuO_(4 + δ) Only one interstitial oxygen position O(3)
was found, located exactly at the center of the Hg plane. An analysis of
the structural refinements has produced a number of correlations between
the exact location of the Ba²⁺ cation within the unit cell and a number
of important superconducting parameters; these include the occupancy of
the O(3) site, the extent of oxidation of the CuO₂ planes, and the
magnetic penetration depth. [S0163-1829(97)09517-9]

## I Introduction

In 1991, Putilin, Bryntse, and Antipov [1] reported the synthesis of
layered cuprates containing discrete (HgO_(δ)) layers,
HgBa₂KCu₂O_(6 + δ). Unfortunately, in spite of their obvious structural
similarity with TlBa₂CaCu₂O_(7 + δ) (T_(c) = 85 K), no superconductivity
was detected in these cuprates. Subsequently, the Hg-layered cuprate
superconductor HgBa₂CuO_(4 + δ) (Hg1201) with a T_(c) = 94 K was
reported in 1993.2

Footnote 2: 0163-1829/97/55(18)/12776(8)/510.00

Hg1201 is the first member of the homologous series
HgBa₂Ca_(n − 1)Cu_(n)O_(2n + 2 + δ), with n >= 1. The discovery of the
two superconducting higher homologues, HgBa₂CaCu₂O_(6 + δ) (Hg1212) and
HgBa₂Ca₂Cu₃O_(8 + δ) (Hg1223) (Ref. 3) with T_(c) = 128 and 135 K,
respectively, swiftly followed that of Hg1201. The basic crystal
structure of these three compounds has been revealed by a number of
powder neutron-diffraction studies, [4, 5, 6, 7, 8] and it is widely
agreed that the structures contain the following layer sequence:

…[(BaO)_(c)(HgO_(δ))_(o)(BaO)_(c)(CuO₂)_(o)(n − 1)
×{(Ca)_(c)(CuO₂)_(o)}]…,

where the subscripts c and o indicate whether the cation is at the
center or origin of the mesh for each layer. A schematic representation
of the crystal structure of Hg1201 is presented in Fig. 1. There exists
however, a degree of controversy regarding the precise
structure/composition of the (HgO_(δ)) layer. Diffraction studies have
revealed the presence of an interstitial oxygen defect located at or
close to the (1/2, 1/2, 0) site in the center of the Hg plane.
Furthermore, Wagner _et al._ found an additional defect involving
partial substitution of Hg by Cu coupled to the presence of oxygen at
the (1/2, 0, 0) site.4 These authors determined that Cu had substituted
for 7(1)

Footnote 4: 0163-1829/97/55(18)/12776(8)/510.00

If Cu is partially substituting for Hg in the Hg-layered
superconductors, then there should exist a solid-solution of the form
(Hg_(1 − x)Cu_(x))Ba₂CuO_(4 + δ). There is another possibility, however,
a solid-solution field of the form (Hg_(1 − x)Cu_(x))Ba₂CuO_(4 + δ)
which incorporates both Cu partially substituting for Hg and Hg vacant
sites (i.e., when _x_>_y_) may exist. Here the solid-solution line
(Hg_(1 − y)Cu_(x))Ba₂CuO_(4 + δ) is the edge of the solid-solution field
(Hg_(1 − x)Cu_(x))Ba₂CuO_(4 + δ) where x = y. In order to verify the
existence of such a solid-solution field or line, we have studied the
effect of nominal starting composition upon the synthesis, crystal
structure, and superconducting properties of Hg1201. In an effort to
increase our understanding of the origin of superconductivity in Hg1201,
we have also investigated the relationships between crystal structure
and superconducting properties.

## II Experiment

### Synthesis of samples

A precursor, Ba₂CuO_(3, 3), was obtained by solid-state reaction of a
stoichiometric mixture of BaO and CuO in flowing O₂ gas at 930 degC for
45 h, followed by a slow cool at 40 degC h-1, with two intermittent
grindings. Since Ba₂CuO_(3, 3) is susceptible to degradation from
atmospheric moisture and CO₂ this precursor was immediately transferred
to an argon glovebox (2−10 ppm H₂O, 5−40 ppm O₂).

Polycrystalline samples with nominal starting compositions
(Hg_(1 − x)Cu_(x))Ba₂CuO_(4 + δ) (_y_ <= x,_y_ and x = 0.00, 0.05, 0.10,
0.15, 0.20, 15 samples in total) were prepared as follows. Appropriate
amounts of Ba₂CuO_(3, 3) and CuO were intimately mixed with 1.4 mmol of
HgO (∼ 0.3 g), compacted into pellets and wrapped in Ag foil, all within
a glovebox. These pelletized samples were then individually sealed in
quartz tubes (I.D. 13 mm, O.D. 16 mm, length ∼ 100 mm) containing air at
1 atm pressure and placed in steel containers. These were then heated to
800 ^(∘)C in 4 h, held at 800 ^(∘)C for 8 h, and finally slowly cooled
to room temperature over a period of 8 h.

### Powder x-ray-diffraction and data analysis

Powder x-ray-diffraction data were collected in transmission mode using
a Siemens D5000 x-ray diffractometer (Cu Kα₁ radiation, l = 1.5406 A)
fitted with a position sensitive detector. Structural refinements were
performed by the Rietveld method,[12] assuming neutral atom x-ray form
factors, using the gsas suite of programs.[13] The step-scan diffraction
data were collected on as-synthesized samples over the angular range
10^(∘) = 2θ = 100^(∘). A 2θ step size of 0.02^(∘) and a counting time of
10 s per data point were used. No evidence of preferred orientation was
found in any of the data sets collected.

### ac susceptibility measurements

The ac susceptibility measurements were performed on finely powdered
samples in a nominally zero dc field, using a frequency of 1 kHz in the
10-200 K temperature range. Superconducting transition temperatures were
determined from the real part decrease of the magnetic susceptibility,
_kh_. A mean density of 5 g cm⁻³ was determined for the sintered barlike
samples,   70

### Magnetic penetration depth measurements

The microwave measurement of the magnetic penetration depth, l, was
performed using a cavity perturbation technique designed specifically
for measurements on powder samples of high-temperature
superconductors.[15] This technique involves placing the sample in the
microwave magnetic field of a quarter wave copper hairpin resonator
(u_(res) = 4.2 GHz). The powder grains were diluted in a low loss, low
melting point wax (Okern) to minimize the effects of intergrain
contacts. The screening currents induced in each grain in the
superconducting state results in a decrease of the resonant frequency of
the stripline. Consequently, measurements of the resonant frequency
shift can be used to determine absolute values of l, where we use a
model of isolated spherical grains and a grain-size distribution
determined from high-resolution SEM photographs (JEOL 5200) of the
powder samples. The errors in the values of l are relatively unaffected
by variation in grain shape, but are more sensitive to uncertainties in
the powder grain-size distribution. For this reason, the absolute values
of l are in error by   +- 0.2 _m_m.

## III Results and discussion

### Unit-cell parameters

For all 15 samples prepared, of nominal starting compositions
(Hg1-_Cu_(y))Ba2CuO4+ _δ_ (y_ ≤_x_,y and x = 0.00, 0.05, 0.10, 0.15,
0.20) referred to as Hg(00)-Hg(44), Table 1 lists the nominal starting
composition variables x and y, refined unit-cell parameters and the
superconducting parameters, T_(c) and the measured magnetic
susceptibility at a temperature of 10 K.

The unit-cell parameters obtained are consistent with previously
reported values for Hg1201 synthesized by the sealed quartz tube
technique.[2, 4, 9] With regard to the existence of a solid-solution
line, (Hg1-_Cu_(y))Ba2CuO4+ _δ_ or a solid-solution field,
(Hg1-_x_Cu_(y))Ba2CuO4+ _δ_ it could be anticipated that the unit-cell
parameters would display a simple dependence with the initial
composition variables, x and y. Examination of Table 1, however, shows
that no such simple relationship exists between the nominal composition
variables and the unit-cell parameters of the subsequently synthesized
materials. The observation of such a correlation would be considered as
positive evidence for the existence of a solid solution. However, the
absence of a correlation does not inv violate this proposal, since other
factors, most notably oxygen content, may be critical in determining the
unit-cell parameters.

### Superconducting properties

The effect of nominal starting composition upon the superconducting
properties of the resulting materials has been

Figure 1: A schematic representation of the structure of HgBa2CuO4+ _δ_

studied. The majority of as-synthesized samples displayed T_(c)’s within
3 K of the optimum value of 96 K. No obvious relationship could be
discerned between the measured T_(c)’s and nominal starting
compositions. Figure 2 presents the ac susceptibility data for the
samples Hg(00), Hg(11), Hg(22), Hg(33), and Hg(44), i.e., for the
solid-solution line (Hg_(1 − y)Cu_(y))Ba₂CuO_(4 + β) Clearly, for these
particular samples, the apparent superconducting volume fraction, V_(F),
determined from the magnetic susceptibility at 10 K, varies
significantly between samples whereas, T_(c) appears to be relatively
independent. The apparent superconducting volume fractions for all the
samples synthesized were found to vary between 30 and 85

The superconducting properties of Hg1201 are examined in further detail
in Sec. III.4. In particular, the bulk superconducting properties of
Hg1201 are shown to be related to subtle variations in crystal
structure.

### Crystal structure refinements

Powder x-ray diffraction showed that all but one of the samples
synthesized were of high purity (> 90

This observation alone is particularly interesting; the use of a
reaction mixture of nominal composition

Table 3: The thermal parameters of Hg, Ba, Cu, O(1), and O(2) averaged
over all the Rietveld refinements.

Figure 9: Refined occupancies of the Hg site plotted against y, the
amount of partial Cu substitution attempted.

Hg1201 and revealed its complex surface chemistry. The surface of the
Hg1201 grains were shown to consist of a coating of amorphous Ba₂CuO₃,
between 20 and 40 A thick. Considering the thickness of this surface
layer, the small size of the grains (2−10 μm) and the correspondingly
large overall surface area, it would appear that this is the fate of the
∼10

## IV Concluding remarks

In conclusion, we have attempted the synthesis of
(Hg_(1 − x)Cu_(y))Ba₂CuO_(4 + β) (0≤_x_≤0.2, 0≤_y_≤0.2, _y≤x_). However,
a detailed Rietveld refinement analysis of powder x-ray-diffraction data
collected on all 15 samples found no partial occupancy of the Hg site by
Cu, i.e., in all cases the superconducting phase formed was simply
HgBa₂CuO_(4 + β). We therefore conclude that no solid solution of the
form (Hg_(1 − x)Cu_(y))Ba₂CuO_(4 + β) including the special case of
(Hg_(1 − y)Cu_(y))Ba₂CuO_(4 + β) exists for these samples. Our findings
are in agreement with a recently published article by Xiong _et al.[27]_
These authors have investigated the synthesis of HgBa₂CuO_(4 + β) using
Hg-deficient reaction mixtures and by a combination of powder x-ray and
neutron-diffraction studies have determined that no significant partial
substitution of Hg by Cu occurs within this system. Furthermore, our
results suggest that phase pure HgBa₂CuO_(4 + β) can be synthesized from
a Hg-deficient reaction pellet of nominal composition
Hg_(0.9)Ba₂CuO_(4 + β). This is based on powder x-ray-diffraction
results reported here and electron microscopy observations[26] which
show the individual grains of HgBa₂CuO_(4 + β) to be coated with an
amount of Ba₂CuO_(3.3).

Only one interstitial oxygen site O(3) was determined in
HgBa₂CuO_(4 + β) located exactly at the center of the Hg plane; no
evidence was found for any displacement disorder of this site. This,
together with the absence of any Cu substitution onto the Hg site,
differs significantly from recent neutron-diffraction studies on the
homologous series HgBa₂Ca_(n − 1)Cu_(n)O_(2^(n + n + δ)).[4, 9, 11]

Detailed analysis of the structural refinements has produced a number of
correlations between the exact location of Ba²⁺ cation within the
unit-cell and critical superconducting parameters. These include the
extent of the oxidation of the CuO₂ planes, the occupancy of the O(3)
site, and the magnetic penetration depth.

###### Acknowledgements.

We thank EPSRC and The Royal Society for the financial support of this
work.

## References

* [*] Author to whom correspondence should be addressed: Professor P. P.
Edwards, School of Chemistry, The University of Birmingham, Birmingham
B15 2TT, United Kingdom. * [2] S. N. Putilin, I. Bryntse, and E. V.
Antipov, Mater. Res. Bull. **26**, 1299 (1991). * [3] S. N. Putilin, E.
V. Antipov, O. Chmaissem, and M. Marezio, Nature (London) **362**, 226
(1993). * [4] A. Schilling, M. Cantoni, J. D. Guo, and H. R. Ott, Nature
(London) **363**, 56 (1993). * [5] J. L. Wagner, P. G. Radaelli, D. G.
Hinks, J. D. Jorgensen, J. F. Mitchell, B. Dabrowski, G. S. Knapp, and
M. A. Beno, Physica C **210**, 447 (1993). * [6] O. Chmaissem, Q. Huang,
S. N. Putilin, M. Marezio, and A. Santoro, Physica C **212**, 307
(1993). * [7] S. M. Loureiro, E. V. Antipov, J. L. Tholence, J. J.
Capponi, O. Chmaissem, Q. Huang, and M. Marezio, Physica C **217**, 253
(1993). * [8] Q. Huang, J. W. Lynn, R. L. Meng, and C. W. Chu, Physica C
**218**, 356 (1993). * [9] O. Chmaissem, Q. Huang, E. V. Antipov, S. N.
Putilin, M. Marezio, S. M. Loureiro, J. J. Capponi, J. L. Tholence, and
A. Santoro, Physica C **217**, 265 (1993). * [10] A. Asab, A. R.
Armstrong, I. Gameson, and P. P. Edwards, Physica C **255**, 180
(1995). * [11] L. W. Finger, R. M. Hazen, R. T. Downs, R. L. Meng, and
C. W. Chu, Physica C **226**, 216 (1994). * [12] J. L. Wagner, B. A.
Hunter, D. G. Hinks, and J. D. Jorgensen, Phys. Rev. B **51**, 15 407
(1995). * [13] H. M. Rietveld, Acta Crystallogr. **22**, 151 (1967). *
[14] A. C. Larson and R. B. Von Dreele, LAUR 86748, Los Alamos National
Laboratory (1987). * [15] A. M. Campbell, F. J. Blunt, J. D. Johnson,
and P. A. Freeman, Cryogenics **31**, 732 (1991). * [16] J. R. Waldram,
A. Porch, and H. M. Cheah, Physica C **232**, 189 (1994). * [17] V. A.
Alyoshin, D. A. Mikhailova, and E. V. Antipov, Physica C **255**, 173
(1995). * [18] D. J. Singh, Physica C **212**, 228 (1993). * [19] Q.
Xiong, Y. Y. Xue, Y. Cao, F. Chen, J. Gibson, L. M. Liu, A. Jacobson,
and C. W. Chu, Physica C **251**, 216 (1995).

Figure 10: The final profile fit for sample Hg(20), of nominal starting
composition Hg_(0.9)Ba₂CuO_(4 + β). The difference/esd profile is
displayed below the main profile, the dashed lines signifies ±3 esd.

* [19] M. R. Presland, J. L. Tallon, R. G. Buckley, R. S. Liu, and N. E.
Flower, Physica C **176**, 95 (1991). * [20] Q. Xiong, Y. Y. Xue, Y.
Cao, F. Chen, Y. Y. Sun, J. Gibson, C. W. Chu, L. M. Liu, and A.
Jacobson, Phys. Rev. B **50**, 10 346 (1994). * [21] I. D. Brown, J.
Solid State Chem. **82**, 2322 (1989). * [22] Y. J. Uemura, A. Keren, L.
P. Le, Q. M. Luke, W. D. Wu, Y. Kubo, T. Maneko, Y. Shimakawa, M.
Subramanian, J. L. Cobb, and J. T. Markett, Nature (London) **364**, 605
(1993). * [23] C. Niedermayer, C. Bernhard, U. Binninger, H. Gluckler,
J. L. Tallon, E. J. Ansaldo, and J. I. Budnick, Phys. Rev. Lett. **71**,
1764 (1993). * [24] S. M. Loureiro, E. T. Alexandre, E. V. Antipov, J.
J. Capponi, S. de Brion, B. Souletie, J. L. Tholence, M. Marezio, Q.
Huang, and A. Santoro, Physica C **243**, 1 (1995). * [25] Y. Y. Xue, Q.
Xiong, Y. Cao, I. Rusakova, Y. Y. Sun, and C. W. Chu, Physica C **255**,
1 (1995). * [26] W. Zhou, A. Asab, I. Gameson, D. A. Jefferson, and P.
P. Edwards, Physica C **248**, 1 (1995). * [27] Q. Xiong, F. T. Chan, Y.
Y. Xue, and C. W. Chu, Physica C **253**, 329 (1995).
