# Multigap superconductivity in chiral noncentrosymmetric TaRh₂B₂

D. A. Mayoh

d.mayoh@warwick.ac.uk Physics Department, University of Warwick,
Coventry CV4 7AL, United Kingdom

A. D. Hillier

ISIS Facility, STFC Rutherford Appleton Laboratory, Harwell Science and
Innovation Campus, Oxfordshire OX11 0QX, United Kingdom

K. Gotze

Physics Department, University of Warwick, Coventry CV4 7AL, United
Kingdom

D. McK. Paul

Physics Department, University of Warwick, Coventry CV4 7AL, United
Kingdom

G. Balakrishnan

Physics Department, University of Warwick, Coventry CV4 7AL, United
Kingdom

M. R. Lees

Physics Department, University of Warwick, Coventry CV4 7AL, United
Kingdom

November 6, 2021

###### Abstract

We report the observation of multigap superconductivity in TaRh₂B₂. We
show TaRh₂B₂ is a bulk type-II superconductor with a transition
temperature $T_{\rm c}=6.00(5)$ K. We present transverse-field muon spin
relaxation data where the superconducting gap can be fit using a two-gap
(s + s)-wave model. We also report the zero-field electronic specific
heat in the superconducting state that is best described by the same
(s + s) model, providing further evidence of multiband behavior in this
superconductor. Zero-field muon spin relaxation measurements show
time-reversal symmetry is preserved in the superconducting state. We
demonstrate that TaRh₂B₂ has an upper critical field of 15.2(1) T, which
is significantly higher than previously reported and exceeds the Pauli
limit.

pacs: 10.1103/PhysRevB.98.014502 + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL REVIEW
B **98**, 014502 (2018)

_Introduction_. The discovery of two noncentrosymmetric (NCS)
superconductors with chiral structures, TaRh₂B₂ and NbRh₂B₂[1], has
added a new twist to an already exciting area of superconductivity
research [2, 3]. For all superconductors, the topology of the electronic
band structure, along with the underlying crystal structure, play vital
roles in determining the superconducting properties of the material.

For a simple s-wave, electron-phonon mediated superconductor with a
single Fermi surface, the gap function has the full symmetry of the
crystal. Higher angular momentum (p-, d-, and f-wave) coupling channels
can lead to nodes in the gap and if, e.g., two equivalent gap functions
are degenerate, a chiral state such as (p_(x) + ip_(y)) where the gap
function winds around some axis of the Fermi surface. Chiral
superconductivity may also arise due to the presence of several Fermi
sheets, requiring multiple gap functions to describe the superconducting
state. Chiral superconductors can exhibit broken time-reversal symmetry
(TRS) and support exotic topologically protected edge states, surface
currents, and Majorana modes [4]. Two of the most studied candidate
chiral superconductors, the heavy fermion f-wave superconductor UPt₃,
and the p-wave oxide superconductor Sr₂RuO₄, have multiple bands
crossing the Fermi energy. More recently it has been suggested that
SrPtAs, a superconductor with a locally NCS structure, exhibits a chiral
(d + id)-wave state [5]. Both Sr₂RuO₄ and SrPtAs break time-reversal
symmetry [6, 7].

In contrast to superconductors with a centrosymmetric (CS) crystal
structure where parity is a good quantum number and the Cooper pairs
form in a purely spin-singlet or spin-triplet state, the lack of a
center inversion in a NCS superconductor means parity is no longer a
good quantum number. Anti-symmetric spin-orbit coupling (ASOC) can then
lead to a mixing of the singlet and triplet pair states. This mixing
gives rise to interesting behavior including time-reversal symmetry
breaking [8, 9, 10] and upper critical fields that exceed the Pauli
limit. NCS superconductors with a chiral structure are rare but examples
do exist. For example, Li₂(Pd_(1 − x)Pt_(x))₃B (0 ≤ x ≤ 1) has an
antiperovskite structure (NCS chiral space group P4₃32). Li₂Pd₃B is an
s-wave superconductor, while the stronger ASOC in Li₂Pt₃B enhances the
triplet component, producing line nodes in the gap, as revealed by the
linear temperature dependence of the magnetic penetration depth λ(T) at
low T[11, 12]. Mo₃Al₂C (NCS chiral space group P4₃32) is a strongly
coupled superconductor with a $T_{\rm c}$ of 9 K. NMR and electronic
heat capacity data, along with a pressure-enhanced $T_{\rm c}$, suggest
Mo₃Al₂C has a nodal gap with singlet-triplet mixing [13, 14].

Multigap superconductivity has been reported in several classes of
superconductor including the iron pnictides [15, 16, 17] and the borides
including MgB₂[16, 18, 19, 20, 21]. There are several nonchiral NCS
superconductors that exhibit multigap behavior. For example, Y₂C₃ is
proposed to have a double gap, each with s-wave symmetry and interband
coupling. Even in CS materials, a combination of strong spin-orbit (SO)
coupling and disorder can have profound effects on the superconducting
properties. The R₂Pd₃S₅ (x ≤ 1) family of materials where R= Nb or Ta
with the CS space group C2/m are particularly noteworthy in this regard
[22, 23, 24]. Strong SO coupling, along with Anderson localization
resulting from a level of disorder due to Pd deficiency, leads to highly
anisotropic upper critical fields that in some cases far exceed the
Pauli limit [e.g., Nb₂Pd_(0.81)S₅, $T_{\rm c}\sim 6.6$ K, and
$H_{\rm c2}$(0) along the b axis of 37 T] [22].

TaRh₂B₂ and NbRh₂B₂ are both NCS superconductors with a chiral structure
and have the potential to exhibit similar exciting physics. The first
report on this material [1] shows TaRh₂B₂ has a trigonal structure
(space group P3₁), with a $T_{\rm c}$ of 5.8 K and an upper critical
field that exceeds the Pauli limit. Here, we have used a combination of
muon spectroscopy and heat capacity to probe the nature of the
superconducting state of TaRh₂B₂. We show that TaRh₂B₂ can be best
described using a two-gap (s + s)-wave model. We clearly demonstrate
that TaRh₂B₂ is a type-II superconductor with an upper critical field,
$\mu_{0}H_{\rm c2}=15.2(1)$ T, that is significantly higher than
previous reported [1] and well above the Pauli limit.

Experimental details.Polycrystalline samples of TaRh₂B₂ were prepared
from the constituent elements using the synthesis method described
earlier [1,25]. Powder x-ray diffraction (PXRD) performed using a
Panalytical X-Pert Pro diffractometer showed the material forms with a
trigonal P31 structure and lattice parameters a = 4.6984(2) A and
c = 8.7338(5) A. The samples were confirmed to be single phase to within
the detection limit of the technique.

A Quantum Design Physical Property Measurement System (PPMS) with a ³He
insert was used to measure ac resistivity (ρ) and heat capacity (C) from
0.5 to 300 K in fields up to 9 T. ρ(T) measurements were extended to 15
T using an Oxford Instruments cryomagnet.

Zero-field (ZF) and transverse-field (TF) muon spin relaxation/rotation
(μSR) experiments were carried out using the MuSR spectrometer at the
ISIS pulsed muon facility. The muons implanted into the sample rapidly
thermalize, before decaying with a mean lifetime of 2.2 μs. The decay
positrons are recorded by 64 scintillation detectors positioned in
circular arrays around the sample. A full description of the detector
geometries is given in Ref. [26]. Stray fields at the sample position
were canceled to within 1 μT by an active compensation system. The
powdered TaRh₂B₂ sample was mounted on a 99.995

Characterization of the superconducting state.Heat capacity and
resistivity data show TaRh₂B₂ is a bulk type-II superconductor with a
superconducting transition temperature $T_{\rm c}=6.00(5)$ K. A more
comprehensive set of characterization data is provided in the
Supplemental Material [25]. Figure 1(a) shows ρ(T) for TaRh₂B₂ close to
$T_{\rm c}$ in different magnetic fields. The resistivity just above
$T_{\rm c}$ is high (∼2 mΩ cm), with an upturn in ρ(T) suggesting a
degree of localization [23]. The transition broadens and shifts to lower
T with increasing field. An anomaly in specific heat at $T_{\rm c}$
confirms bulk superconductivity [see Fig. 1(b)].
$\gamma_{\rm h}=4.29(6)$ mJ/mol K² and
$\Delta C/\gamma_{\rm h}T_{\rm c}=1.57(2)$ is larger than the 1.43
expected from conventional Bardeen-Cooper-Schrieffer (BCS)
superconductors, suggesting the presence of enhanced electron-phonon
(e-p) coupling.

The critical temperatures or upper critical fields extracted from the
midpoint of the resistive transition, or the anomaly in C(T) at the
superconducting transition, are collected together in Fig. 1(c). The
upper critical field $\mu_{0}H_{\rm c2}(T)$ is almost linear in T at
lower fields. The data deviate from the Werthamer-Helfand-Hohenberg
(WHH) model [27] at lower T and so we use a phenomenological
Ginzburg-Landau (GL) expression
$H_{\rm c2}(T)=H_{\rm c2}(0)[1-(T/T_{\rm c})^{2}]/[1+(T/T_{\rm c})^{2}]$
to estimate $\mu_{0}H_{\rm c2}(0)=15.2(1)$ T, which is well above the
Pauli limit of $\mu_{0}H^{\rm p}[\rm T]=1.85\times T_{\rm c}[K]=11.1(1)$
T. The temperature dependence of the electronic specific heat
$C_{\rm el}(T)$ provides important information about the nature of the
superconducting gap (see Fig. 2). Immediately below $T_{\rm c}$,
$C_{\rm el}(T)$ clearly deviates from a simple s-wave BCS-like behavior,
instead exhibiting a T³ dependence (see the inset of Fig. 2). A similar
behavior is seen in other two-gap superconductors including
Lu₂Fe₃Si₅[28,29] and MgB₂[18,21]. In these materials, a shoulder in
$C_{\rm el}(T)$ is followed by a rapid fall at lower T as the second gap
opens. As seen in Fig. 2, we observe a flattening in $C_{\rm el}(T)$ in
TaRh₂B₂ at low temperature due to a hyperfine contribution. The
zero-field $C_{\rm el}(T)$ data from $T_{\rm c}$ to 1.5 K were fit using
a single-gap isotropic s-wave, a line nodal d-wave, an isotropic two-gap
(s + s)-wave, and an (s + d)-wave

Figure 2: Zero-field normalized electronic specific heat of TaRh₂B₂ with
a single-gap isotropic s-wave (yellow), a line nodal d-wave (purple), an
isotropic two-gap (s + s)-wave (blue), and a two-gap (s + d)-wave model
(dark red). The inset shows a linear fit to the zero-field C(T)/T vs T²,
indicating a T³ dependence to the specific heat.

Figure 1: (a) Resistivity vs temperature for TaRh₂B₂ in fields from 0 to
9 T in 0.5-T steps. The black (red) dashed line(s) are at 50

model [30] with the two-gap models producing a better fit to the data
(shown in Fig. 2). The gap values for the (s + s)-wave fit are
$\Delta_{0.1}/k_{\rm B}T_{\rm c}=2.19(12)$,
$\Delta_{0.2}/k_{\rm B}T_{\rm c}=1.1(3)$ with a weighting of 4:1. The
larger gap is above the BCS value of 1.76, again indicating moderate e-p
coupling.

_Zero-field μSR measurements_. Zero-field (ZF) muon spin relaxation
spectra collected at temperatures above (7 K) and below (0.3 K)
$T_{\rm c}$ are shown in Fig. 3(a). In these experiments, any muons
stopped in the silver sample holder give a time-independent background.
There is no indication of a precessional signal ruling out the
possibility of a large internal field and hence long-range magnetic
order in TaRh₂B₂ down to at least 300 mK. In the absence of atomic
moments, the muon spin relaxation is due to static, randomly oriented
local fields associated with the nuclear moments at the muon site. The
solid lines in Fig. 3(a) are fits using a Gaussian Kubo-Toyabe
expression [31]. The fact that the spectra above and below $T_{\rm c}$
are identical confirms time-reversal symmetry is preserved in TaRh₂B₂ in
the superconducting state.

_Transverse-field μSR measurements_. Transverse-field μSR experiments
were performed in the superconducting mixed state in applied fields of
30 and 40 mT, well above the $\mu_{0}H_{\rm c1}(0)\sim 4$ mT of
TaRh₂B₂[25]. In this geometry, the detectors in the spectrometer were
grouped in eight blocks, each with a phase offset ϕ. In order to ensure
the most uniform flux-line lattice possible, the magnetic field was
applied above $T_{\rm c}$ and the sample cooled to a base temperature.
The data were then collected in field-cooled-warming (FCW) mode. A
typical TF-μSR precession signal for TaRh₂B₂ in 30 mT at 300 mK is shown
in Fig. 3(b). Above $T_{\rm c}$ the signal decays with time because of
the inhomogeneous field distribution of the flux-line lattice. The
depolarization above $T_{\rm c}$ is reduced but still persists due to
randomly oriented nuclear magnetic moments. The TF spectra were fit
using a sinusoidal oscillating function with a Gaussian relaxation, an
oscillatory background term arising from the muons implanted directly
into the silver sample holder that do not depolarize, and a linear
background,

$$G(t) = A_{1}\exp\left(-\frac{\sigma^{2}t^{2}}{2}\right)\cos\left(2\pi v _{1}t+\phi\right)$$
(1)
+A₂cos (2πv₂t + ϕ) + A₀,

where v₁ and v₂ are the frequencies of the muon precession signal and
the background signal, respectively, A₀ is a flat background, and σ is
the Gaussian muon spin relaxation rate. The superconducting contribution
to the relaxation rate $\sigma_{\rm se}$ can be calculated from
$\sigma_{\rm se}=\sqrt{(\sigma^{2}-\sigma_{\rm n}^{2})}$, where
$\sigma_{\rm n}$ is the nuclear magnetic dipolar contribution, which is
assumed to be temperature independent.

For a type-II superconductor with a large upper critical field and a
hexagonal Abrikosov vortex lattice, $\sigma_{\rm se}$ is related to the
magnetic penetration depth λ by the expression
$\frac{\sigma_{\rm e}^{2}(T)}{\gamma_{\rm n}^{2}}=0.00371\frac{\Phi_{0}^{2}}{ \lambda^{2}(T)}$,
where $\gamma_{\rm n}/2\pi=135.5$ MHz/T is the muon gyromagnetic ratio
and Φ₀ = 2.068 × 10⁻¹⁵ Wb is the magnetic-flux quantum. λ is directly
related to the superfluid density from which the nature of the
superconducting gap can be determined. In the clean limit, the
temperature dependence of the London magnetic penetration depth λ(T) can
be calculated using the following expression,

$$\left[\frac{\lambda^{-2}(T,\Delta_{0.j})}{\lambda^{-2}(0,\Delta_ {0.j})}\right] = 1+\frac{1}{\pi}\int_{0}^{2\pi}\int_{\Delta_{(T,0)}}^{\infty} \left(\frac{\partial f}{\partial E}\right)$$
(2)
$$\times\frac{EdEd\phi}{\sqrt{E^{2}-\Delta_{i}(T,\phi)^{2}}},$$

where f = [1 + exp (E/k_(B)T)]⁻¹ is the Fermi function, and the
temperature and angular dependence of the gap is
Δ(T, ϕ) = Δ₀δ(T/T_(c))g(ϕ). Here, g(ϕ) is the angular dependence of the
superconducting gap function and is 1 for an s-wave gap and |cos (2ϕ)|
for a d-wave gap where ϕ is the azimuthal angle along the Fermi surface.
Δ(0) is the gap magnitude at 0 K and the temperature dependence of the
gap is approximated by
[32]$\delta(T/T_{\rm c})=\tanh\left\{1.82[1.018(T_{c}/T-1)]^{0.51}\right\}$.
For the multigap analysis we have used a weighted sum of the two gaps
given by

$$\left[\frac{\lambda^{-2}(T,\Delta_{0})}{\lambda^{-2}(0,\Delta_{0})}\right]=w \left[\frac{\lambda^{-2}(T,\Delta_{0.1})}{\lambda^{-2}(0,\Delta_{0.1})}\right] +(1-w)\left[\frac{\lambda^{-2}(T,\Delta_{0.2})}{\lambda^{-2}(0,\Delta_{0.2})}\right].$$
(3)

Figure 3(c) shows λ⁻²(T). We obtain good fits to the data, as measured
by $\chi^{2}_{\rm norm}$ and the form of the normalized residual, using
a two-gap (s + s)-wave model [see Fig. 3(c)]. The λ⁻²(T) data were also
fit using a single isotropic s-wave, a d-wave, and an (s + d)-wave
model. The parameters extracted from

Figure 3: (a) Zero-field μSR time spectra collected at 0.3 (green) and
7.0 K (purple) show TRS is preserved in TaRh₂B₂. (b) Transverse-field
μSR time spectra for TaRh₂B₂ collected at 7.0 (top) and 0.3 K (bottom)
in an applied field of 30 mT. The solid lines are fits using Eq. (1).
The Gaussian decay of the oscillatory signal shows the effect of the
flux-line lattice. (c) Inverse square of the London penetration depth
λ⁻² as a function of temperature for TaRh₂B₂. The lines are fits to the
data using Eqs. (2) and (3) for one- and two-gap models. The inset shows
the low-temperature data on an expanded scale.

these fits are given in Table 1. There is little difference between the
quality of the fits for the (s + s) and (s + d) models, as measured by
$\chi^{2}_{\rm norm}$, with the (s + s)-wave model just preferred.
Figure 3(c) clearly shows that a single-gap s-wave model does not
produce a good fit. The value of the larger energy gap for the
(s + s)-wave model is Δ_(0.1) = 1.16(4) meV, giving a superconducting
gap ratio $\Delta_{0.1}/k_{\rm B}T_{\rm c}=2.28(8)$, which is higher
than the 1.76 expected for BCS superconductors, a further indication of
the enhanced electron-phonon coupling in the superconducting state of
TaRh₂B₂. The (s + s)-wave model gives a magnetic penetration depth
λ(0) = 648(5) nm, which is higher than the value calculated from
magnetization [1,25].

_Discussion._ Muon spectroscopy, heat capacity, and resistivity
measurements have been carried out on the chiral NCS superconductor
TaRh₂B₂. We show TaRh₂B₂ is a bulk type-II superconductor with a
$T_{\rm c}=6.00(5)$ K driven by moderate electron-phonon coupling.
Zero-field μSR shows time-reversal symmetry is preserved in the
superconducting state. Our results clearly show strong evidence for
multigap superconductivity in TaRh₂B₂. The temperature dependence of
both the electronic heat capacity and the penetration depth, extracted
from TF μSR data, reveal this multigap nature, with either an isotropic
(s + s)-wave or an (s + d)-wave order parameter. For both models, the
value of the larger gap $\Delta_{0.1}/k_{\rm B}T_{\rm c}$ extracted from
the μSR and heat capacity data is higher than the BCS value of 1.76.

We determine a number of other important superconducting parameters for
this NCS superconductor with a chiral structure [25]. In particular, we
show that the upper critical field $\mu_{0}H_{\rm c2}(0)$ exceeds the
Pauli limit. There are several potential sources for the suppression of
paramagnetic pair breaking. Any triplet superconducting component should
be robust to paramagnetic pair breaking [2,3], but TaRh₂B₂ appears to be
a superconductor in the dirty limit with considerable localization of
the carriers and perhaps some disorder due to variations in the
stoichiometry [25]. This is likely to suppress any triplet component
that may be present. Strong coupling can increase $H_{\rm c2}(0)$. The
fit to the $C_{\rm el}(T)$ below $T_{\rm c}$ as well as the jump in heat
capacity at $T_{\rm c}$ suggest the coupling is only moderately
enhanced, however, multigap behavior can sometimes reduce the jump at
$T_{\rm c}$[21,29]. Spin-orbit scattering associated with the presence
of heavier elements Ta and Rh could help to increase $H_{\rm c2}(0)$ in
TaRh₂B₂ (cf. Ta₂Pd_(x)S₄ and related R₂Pd_(x)S₅ materials [22,23]).
$H_{\rm c2}(0)$ can also be increased by a Stoner enhancement [33].

The observed multigap nature of the superconductivity is also likely to
play an important role in augmenting the upper critical field [34].
Further investigations into the effects driving this enhancement in the
upper critical field are necessary, but these will require, for example,
a much more detailed understanding of the density of states.
High-quality single crystals are urgently required to further
investigate the superconducting order parameter of TaRh₂B₂ and to
confirm the mechanism allowing for a Pauli-limit violation in this
compound.

_Acknowledgments._ This work is funded by the EPSRC, United Kingdom,
through Grant No. EP/M028771/1. This project has received funding from
the European Research Council (ERC) under the European Union’s Horizon
2020 research and innovation programme (Grant Agreement No. 681260).

## References

* [1] E. M. Carnicom, W. Xie, T. Klimczuk, J. Lin, K. Gornicka, Z.
Sobczak, N. P. Ong, and R. J. Cava, Sci. Adv. **4**, eaar7969 (2018). *
[2] E. Bauer and M. Sigrist, _Non-centrosymmetric Superconductors:
Introduction and Overview_ (Springer, Heidelberg, 2012). * [3] M.
Smidman, M. B. Salamon, H. Q. Yuan, and D. F. Agterberg, Rep. Prog.
Phys. **80**, 036501 (2017). * [4] C. Kallin and J. Berlinsky, Rep.
Prog. Phys. **79**, 054502 (2016). * [5] M. H. Fischer, T. Neupert, C.
Platt, A. P. Schnyder, W. Hanke, J. Goryo, R. Thomale, and M. Sigrist,
Phys. Rev. B **89**, 020509 (2014). * [6] G. M. Luke, Y. Fudamoto, K. M.
Kojima, M. I. Larkin, J. Merrin, B. Nachumi, Y. J. Uemura, Y. Maeno, Z.
Q. Mao, Y. Mori, H. Nakamura, and M. Sigrist, Nature (London) **394**,
558 (1998). * [7] P. K. Biswas, H. Luetkens, T. Neupert, T. Sturzer, C.
Baines, G. Pascua, A. P. Schnyder, M. H. Fischer, J. Goryo, M. R. Lees,
H. Maeter, F. Bruckner, H.-H. Klauss, M. Nicklas, P. J. Baker, A. D.
Hillier, M. Sigrist, A. Amato, and D. Johrendt, Phys. Rev. B **87**,
180503 (2013). * [8] A. D. Hillier, J. Quintanilla, and R. Cywinski,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **102**, 117007 (2009). * [9] R. P. Singh, A. D.
Hillier, B. Mazidian, J. Quintanilla, J. F. Annett, D. M. Paul, G.
Balakrishnan, and M. R. Lees, Phys. Rev. Lett. **112**, 107002 (2014). *
[10] J. A. T. Barker, D. Singh, A. Thamizhavel, A. D. Hillier, M. R.
Lees, G. Balakrishnan, D. M. Paul, and R. P. Singh, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**115**, 267001 (2015). * [11] H. Q. Yuan, D. F. Agterberg, N. Hayashi,
P. Badica, D. Vandervelde, K. Togano, M. Sigrist, and M. B. Salamon,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **97**, 017006 (2006). * [12] M. Nishiyama, Y. Inada,
and G.-Q. Zheng, Phys. Rev. Lett. **98**, 047002 (2007). * [13] A. B.
Karki, Y. M. Xiong, I. Vekhter, D. Browne, P. W. Adams, D. P. Young, K.
R. Thomas, J. Y. Chan, H. Kim, and R. Prozorov, Phys. Rev. B **82**,
064512 (2010).

  Model                               d-wave     (s + s)-wave   (s + d)-wave
  ----------------------------------- ---------- -------------- --------------
  w                                   1          0.89(2)        0.51(2)
  Δ_(0.1) (meV)                       1.92(7)    1.16(4)        1.30(6)
  Δ_(0.2) (meV)                                  0.14(5)        1.44(5)
  $\Delta_{0.1}/k_{\rm B}T_{\rm c}$   3.78(14)   2.28(8)        2.56(11)
  $\Delta_{0.2}/k_{\rm B}T_{\rm c}$              0.27(9)        2.83(9)
  λ⁻²(0) (μm⁻²)                       2.44(2)    2.38(2)        2.37(4)
  $\chi^{2}_{\rm norm}$               1.81       1.18           1.35

Table 1: Superconducting gap parameters for TaRh₂B₂ extracted from the
fits to the penetration depth data using a BCS model in the clean limit.

* Bauer et al. (2010) E. Bauer, G. Rogl, X.-Q. Chen, R. T. Khan, H.
Michor, G. Hilscher, E. Roganian, K. Kumagai, D. Z. Li, Y. Y. Li, R.
Podloucky, and P. Rogl, Phys. Rev. B **82**, 064511 (2010). * Stewart
(2011) G. R. Stewart, Rev. Mod. Phys. **83**, 1589 (2011). * Khasanov
and Guguchia (2015) R. Khasanov and Z. Guguchia, Supercond. Sci.
Technol. **28**, 034003 (2015). * Si et al. (2016) Q. Si, R. Yu, and E.
Abrahams, Nat. Rev. Mater. **1**, 16017 (2016). * Bouquet et al. (2001)
F. Bouquet, R. A. Fisher, N. E. Phillips, D. G. Hinks, and J. D.
Jorgensen, Phys. Rev. Lett. **87**, 047001 (2001). * Liu et al. (2001)
A. Y. Liu, I. I. Mazin, and J. Kortus, Phys. Rev. Lett. **87**, 087005
(2001). * Iavarone et al. (2002) M. Iavarone, G. Karapetrov, A. E.
Koshelev, W. K. Kwok, G. W. Crabtree, D. G. Hinks, W. N. Kang, E.-M.
Choi, H. J. Kim, H.-J. Kim, and S. I. Lee, Phys. Rev. Lett. **89**,
187002 (2002). * Zehetmayer (2013) M. Zehetmayer, Supercond. Sci.
Technol. **26**, 043001 (2013). * Zhang et al. (2013) Q. Zhang, G. Li,
D. Rhodes, A. Kiswandhi, T. Besara, B. Zeng, J. Sun, T. Siegrist, M. D.
Johannes, and L. Balicas, Sci. Rep. **3**, 1446 (2013). * Lu et al.
(2014) Y. Lu, T. Takayama, A. F. Bangura, Y. Katsura, D. Hashizume, and
H. Takagi, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **83**, 023702 (2014). * Biswas et al.
(2015) P. K. Biswas, H. Luetkens, X. Xu, J. H. Yang, C. Baines, A.
Amato, and E. Morenzoni, Phys. Rev. B **91**, 100504 (2015). * (25) See
Supplemental Material at
http://link.aps.org/supplemental/10.1103/PhysRevB.98.014502 for a more
comprehensive set of characterization data for TaRh₂B₂, which includes
Refs. [35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50,
51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 62, 63, 64, 65, 66, 67, 68,
69, 70, 71, 72, 73, 74, 75, 76, 77, 78, 79, 80, 81, 82, 83, 84, 85, 86,
