# Anomalous properties in the normal and superconducting states of
LaRu₃Si₂

Sheng Li,¹ Bin Zeng,² Xiangang Wan,¹ Jian Tao,¹ Fei Han,² Huan Yang,¹
Zhihe Wang,¹ and Hai-Hu Wen^(1, *)

¹Center for Superconducting Physics and Materials, National Laboratory
of Solid State Microstructures and Department of Physics, Nanjing
University, Nanjing 210093, China

²Institute of Physics and Beijing National Laboratory for Condensed
Matter Physics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, P.O. Box 603, Beijing
100190, China

Received 11 November 2011; published 29 December 2011

###### Abstract

Superconductivity in LaRu₃Si₂ with the Kagome lattice of Ru has been
investigated. It is found that the normal-state specific heat C/T
exhibits a deviation from the Debye model down to the lowest
temperature. This may be induced by the existence of some high-frequency
phonon modes or by the electron correlation effect. A relation
C/T = γ_(n) + βT² − ATlnT which concerns the electron correlations can
fit the data very well. The suppression to the superconductivity by the
magnetic field is not the mean-field type, which is associated well with
the observation of strong superconducting fluctuations. The field
dependence of the induced quasiparticle density of states measured by
the low-temperature specific heat shows a nonlinear feature, indicating
the significant contributions given by the delocalized quasiparticles.
The Wilson ratio determined for this material is about 2.88, indicating
also a strong correlation effect.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.84.214527 PACS number(s): 74.70.Dd, 74.10.+v,
74.25.Bt, 74.25.F−

## I Introduction

Superconductivity arising from non-phonon-mediated pairing, such as
through exchanging the magnetic spin fluctuations, has renewed interests
in condensed-matter physics. The superconducting (SC) mechanism of the
cuprates [1] and the iron pnictides [2], although not yet settled
completely, should have a close relationship with the electron
correlations [3, 4, 5]. A similar assessment may extend to many others,
like heavy fermion [6] and organic materials [7]. In this regard, the
systems RT₃Si₂ or RT₃B₂ (R stands for the rare-earth elements, like La,
Ce, Y, etc., T for the transition metals, like Ru, Co, and Ni, etc.)
provide an interesting platform, since a variety of combinations of
chemical compositions allow the system to be tuned between SC and
magnetic, and sometimes both phases coexist [8, 9]. Among these samples,
the LaRu₃Si₂ has a SC transition temperature as high as 7.8 K [10]. As
shown by Fig. 1, the material of LaRu₃Si₂ contains layers of Ru with the
Kagome lattice sandwiched by the layers of La and Si, forming a P6₃/m or
P6₃ space group. Interestingly the La atoms construct a triangle
lattice, while the Si atoms form a honeycomb structure. The electric
conduction is strongly favored by the Ru chains along the z axis (as
evidenced by our band structure calculations). Preliminary experiment
found that the SC transition temperature drops only 1.4 K with the
substitution of 16

## II Experimental methods and characterization

The samples were fabricated by the arc melting method [8, 10, 11]. The
starting materials–La metal pieces (99.9

## III Results and Discussion

### Resistive and magnetization

In Fig. 3(a) we present the temperature dependence of magnetization
measured in the zero-field-cooling (ZFC) mode and the field-cooling (FC)
mode. By considering the demagnetization factor on the ZFC data, the
Meissner screening is estimated to be almost 100

Figure 2: (Color online) X-ray diffraction patterns of the sample
LaRu₃Si₂. All main diffraction peaks can be indexed well by a hexagonal
structure with a = 5.68 Å and c = 3.565 Å with Ru as the impurity phase.
For some peaks the difference between the data and the fitting is a bit
large because some of the grains of the polycrystalline sample are
slightly oriented. The ratio between LaRu₃Si₂ and Ru is found to be
85:15.

Figure 1: (Color online) The atomic structure of LaRu₃Si₂. The Ru atoms
construct a Kagome lattice, while the Si and La atoms form a honeycomb
and a triangle structure, respectively. The three different atoms do not
overlap each other from a top view. The prism at the bottom left corner
illustrates one unit cell of the structure.

### Specific heat

The raw data of specific heat was shown in Fig. 5(a). A SC anomaly
appears at about 7.6 K. Since the Ru has a SC transition at 0.49 K and a
quite small normal-state specific heat coefficient (γ_(n)^(Ru) = 2.8
mJ/mol K²), a slight correction of about 0.47 mJ/mol K² was made to the
data. By applying a magnetic field, the SC anomaly shifts to lower
temperatures. It is interesting to note that the transition is not
shifted parallel down to the low temperatures (the so-called mean-field
type), rather the SC anomaly is suppressed and becomes wider and wider.
One may argue that this progressive widening of the specific anomaly is
due to the possible impurity phase of the Ru, as argued in the
superconductor with a nodal gap.[13, 14] While since both the resistive
and the specific heat anomaly at zero field is rather sharp, we would
not believe this effect is induced by the Ru impurity, which, to our
understanding, act as nonmagnetic scattering centers. Actually, this
kind of field-induced broadening was clearly seen in the cuprate
superconductor Pr_(0.88)LaCe_(0.12)CuO_(4 − δ)[15] and was ascribed to a
strong SC fluctuation. Combining this fact with the broadened resistive
transitions under magnetic fields, we would argue that there is also a
strong SC fluctuation in LaRu₃Si₂. As for a three-dimensional system
judged from our band structure calculations, this kind of strong SC
fluctuation may suggest that the superfluid density may be low.

Another interesting point shown in Fig. 5(a) is that the normal
state-specific heat (SH) coefficient C/T shows a nonlinear dependence on
T² down to the lowest temperature (0.38 K). This is clearly deviating
from the prediction of the Debye model. Taking the slope of C/T vs T²
from the low-temperature data, we get the Debye temperature T_(D) = 284
K. The phonon contribution calculated based on the Debye model
C_(Debye) ∝ (T/T_(D))³∫₀^(T_(D)/T)[e⁴e⁴/(e^(x) − 1)²]dx is shown by the
red dashed line. One can see that the Debye model is seriously violated.
We should emphasize that this deviation is not induced by the Ru
impurity phase, since a simple estimate finds that 15

If some high-frequency phonon modes are present, the specific heat may
be expressed as

C/T = γ_(n) + βT² + ηT⁴
(1)

(or to include even higher terms C/T = γ_(n) + βT² + ηT⁴ + δT⁶), with
the last two or three terms coming from the phonon contributions. This
kind of treatment was done in many unconventional superconductors by
Yang _et al.[17]_ By fitting our data to the former equation, we indeed
get a good fit, as shown in Fig. 6, yielding γ_(n) = 36.8 mJ/mol K²,
β = 0.1467 mJ/mol K⁴, and η = 0.00465 mJ/mol K⁶. Using the value of β
and the relation 𝛩_(D) = (12π⁴k_(B)N_(A)Z/5β)^(1/3), where
N_(A) = 6.02 × 10²³ mol⁻¹ is the Avogadro constant, Z = 6, is the number
of atoms in one unit cell, we get the Debye temperature 𝛩_(D) ≈ 412 K.
If this interpretation is correct, the large difference of the
experimental data and the Debye model should find a theoretical base for
some unique high-frequency phonon modes.

Alternatively, it is naturally questioned whether this violation is
induced by some electron correlation effect. For a non-Fermi liquid with
three dimensionality, the enhanced electron-electron interaction will
give an extra contribution to the electronic specific
heat[18]C_(e − e) = −AT^(n)lnT with n = 1 to 3. Thus, we fit the data
with the relation

C = γ_(n)T + βT³ − AT^(n)lnT.
(2)

The last term gives the correction to the Fermi liquid description,
n = 1 corresponds to the case of strong correlation, like in Heavy
fermion systems,[18] while n = 3 corresponds to a weak correlation.
Using above equation and γ_(n) = 36.8 mJ/mol K², we found a much better
fitting when n takes 2, as shown by the solid line, leading to β = 1.416
mJ/mol K⁴ and A = 3.61 mJ/mol K³. Therefore, we intend to conclude that
the electron correlations may play an important role in the system. In
Fig. 5(b), we derived the electronic specific heat by subtracting the
normal-state background measured at 5 T. One can see that the low-T part
of C_(e)/T exhibits a flat feature, indicating a full SC gap. There is a
small upturn of C_(e)/T in the low-T region when the field is very weak
(see the data of 0.25 and 0.5 T), which is attributed to the Schottky
anomaly

Figure 4: (Color online) (a) Temperature dependence of resistivity at
zero magnetic field. The inset shows the resistivity at different
magnetic fields: 0, 0.5, 1.0, 1.5, 2.0, 2.5, 3.0, 3.5, and 4.0 T. (b)
Temperature dependence of the critical magnetic field with three
different criterions: H_(c2) (squares, 95%ρ_(n)), H_(c2) (circles,
50%ρ_(n)), and the irreversibility line H_(tr) (up triangles,
0.1%ρ_(n)). There is a large area between the H_(c2) (95%ρ_(n)) and
H_(tr) (0.1%ρ_(n)), which is probably induced by the strong SC
fluctuation.

due to the paramagnetic centers. Using an integral based on the BCS
formula for electronic specific heat,

$$\gamma_{\rm e} = \frac{4N(E_{F})}{k_{B}T^{3}}\int_{0}^{+\infty}\int_{0}^{2\pi}\frac{e ^{\xi/k_{B}T}}{(1+e^{\xi/k_{B}T})^{2}}$$
(3)
$$\times \left(\varepsilon^{2}+\Delta^{2}(\theta,T)-\frac{T}{2}\frac{d \Delta^{2}(\theta,T)}{dT}\right)d\theta\,d\varepsilon,$$

where $\zeta=\sqrt{\varepsilon^{2}+\Delta^{2}(T,\theta)}$ and
Δ(T, θ) = Δ₀(T) for the s-wave symmetry, we fit the data at μ₀H = 0,
0.25, and 0.5 T and show them with the solid lines. In this way we
obtained the data in the zero temperature limit for each field. For
higher magnetic fields, it is known that the Schottky anomaly becomes
weaker; we can determine the low-T data directly from the experimental
data. Figure 5(c) shows the temperature dependence of the entropy
calculated using S = ∫₀^(T)C_(e)/T d T^(′); it is clear that the entropy
is conserved at T_(c) as judged by S_(S) − S_(N)|_(T_(c)) = 0, where
S_(S) or S_(N) are the entropies of the SC state and the normal state
integrated up to T, and
S_(S) − S_(N) = ∫₀^(T)(C_(S)/T^(′) − C_(N)/T^(′))dT^(′). After obtaining
the low-T data, we derived the electronic SH at different magnetic
fields and plot them in Fig. 5(d). Interestingly, a nonlinear field
dependence can be easily seen here. Further analysis finds that this
nonlinear dependence is actually different from the $\sqrt{H}$ relation
[shown by the solid line in Fig. 5(d)] predicted for a clean
superconductor with line-node gap; the data below about 0.5 T seem to be
more linear. Our result here is certainly different from a linear
relation as predicted for a single isotropic SC gap. A multigap feature
would already explain the data, but as seen from the flattening of
C_(e)/T at T → 0, we would argue that it is not the multigap feature,
but the gap anisotropy that leads to the nonlinear field dependence of
C_(e)/T. A momentum resolved measurement is highly desired to uncover
this puzzle.

Figure 5: (Color online) (a) The raw data of specific heat coefficient
C/T vs T², at different magnetic fields ranging from 0 to 5 T. The
normal state data (at 5 T) shows a nonlinear feature down to the lowest
temperature here, indicating a deviation from the Debye model, as shown
by the red dashed line. The solid line represents the fit to the formula
including the electron correlations (see text). (b) The electronic
specific heat coefficient obtained by subtracting normal state value
C_(N)/T (data at 5 T) from the total. The solid lines are the
theoretical fitting curves based on the BCS model. (c) The entropy
difference (squares) between the SC state and the normal state, derived
from S_(S) − S_(N) = ∫₀^(T)(C_(S)/T^(′) − C_(N)/T^(′))dT^(′) at zero
field and 5 T. The condensation energy is calculated by
E_(c) = ∫₀^(T)(S_(S) − S_(N))dT^(′). (d) The magnetic field dependence
of the field induced electronic specific heat Δ_(Y)(H). The nonlinear
field dependence is very clear. The red solid line is a fit to the
$\sqrt{H}$.

Figure 6: (Color online) The raw data of specific heat coefficient C/T
vs T² 5 T, together with the fitting of three different models (see
text).

### Wilson ratio

In order to know how strong the electron correlation effect is in the
material, we measured the magnetic susceptibility of the material and
calculate the Wilson ratio.[19] The data is shown in Fig. 7 together
with the fitting curve. In a Fermi liquid, the Wilson ratio is defined
as

$$R = \frac{4\pi^{2}k_{B}^{2}}{3(g\mu_{B})^{2}}\frac{\chi(0)}{\gamma_{n}}.$$

which measures the correlation strength; here χ(0) is the Pauli
susceptibility arising from the electronic origin, which should be
roughly temperature independent, γ_(n) is the specific heat coefficient,
g is Lande factor which takes about 2 for an electron, and μ_(B) is the
Bohr magneton. The Wilson ratio is a dimensionless quantity, which is
about 1 for the noninteracting electron gas and about 1-2 for
interacting Fermi liquid. When R is larger than 2, the correlation
effect is strong. In a real material, the magnetic susceptibility can
arise from several possible reasons. For a system with long-range
magnetic order, it may have two origins: the Pauli term and the ionic
(orbital and the nuclei) term, assuming the total magnetic
susceptibility is

$$\chi(T) = \chi(0)\left[ 1 - \left(\frac{T}{T_{E}} \right)^{2} \right] + \frac{c}{T + T_{0}}.$$

The first term is coming from the Pauli susceptibility corrected with a
temperature dependence of the density of states at the Fermi energy. The
T_(E) is a parameter proportional to the Fermi energy. The second term
is related to some weak magnetism arising probably from the ionic
contributions. By fitting to the data we get χ(0) = 0.00144 emu/mol Oe,
T_(E) = 702 K, c = 0.004 emu K/mol Oe, and T₀ = 7 K. Using γ_(n) = 36.8
mJ/mol K2, it is found that the Wilson ratio R = 2.88, which is much
larger than 1, indicating a strong electron correlation effect.

### Density-functional theory calculations

To have a comprehensive understanding on the properties of LaRu₃Si₂, we
did the density-functional theory calculations by using the wien2k
package[20] utilizing the generalized gradient approximation[21] for the
exchange-correlation potential. As shown in Fig. 8(a), the bands around
Fermi level are mainly contributed by Ru 4d. The Si 3p bands are very
wide and have some hybridization with Ru 4d. Further analysis of the
calculation shows that the crystal-field splitting upon Ru 4d orbitals
is quite weak, consequently all Ru 4d electron should play a role in
conduction and related superconductivity. There are several bands
crossing the Fermi level, which leads to complicated 3D Fermi surfaces;
this will be presented elsewhere. Since the band closed to the Fermi
level is narrow the density of states (DOS) at the Fermi level is high,
as shown in Fig. 8(b). We also perform spin-polarized calculations to
check the possible magnetic instability. The calculation shows that the
ferromagnetism is not stable for this compound. We cannot find any
strong nesting effect in the Fermi-surface; thus, the spin-density wave
order is unlikely. Worthy of noting is that all the five Ru 4d orbitals
contribute to the conduction in LaRu₃Si₂, which is very similar to the
case of the iron in the iron-pnictide superconductors.[22] Actually a
Ru-based compound, namely, LaRu₂P₂, is a superconductor with T_(c) = 4.1
K, which has the similar structure of the BaFe_(2 − x)Co_(x)As₂
superconductor,[23; 24] and probably the same SC mechanism. This reminds
us that the correlation effect may play some roles in the
superconductivity of LaRu₃Si₂.

## IV Summary

In summary, resistivity, magnetization and specific heat have been
measured in a Ru-based superconductor LaRu₃Si₂ with T_(c) of about 7.8
K. The temperature dependence of the specific heat coefficient C/T
deviates clearly from the Debye model. This deviation can be either
explained as the effect of some unique high-frequency phonon mode or
indicates the possible evidence of electron correlations. The SC
transitions measured by both resistivity and specific heat
self-consistently present the evidence of strong SC fluctuations,
resembling that in the cuprates. The field induced quasiparticle density
of states

Figure 8: (Color online) (a) The energy bands obtained from the DFT
calculations. The dense bands near E_(F) are derived from the Ru 4d
orbitals. (b) The electronic density states from the band structure
calculations. It is found that the DOS at the E_(F) are mainly
contributed by the Ru orbitals. The DOS from the La and the Si atoms at
E_(F) are negligible.

Figure 7: (Color online) Temperature dependence of the magnetic
susceptibility measured at 5 T. The solid line is a fit to the
theoretical curve, namely, Eq. (5).

show a nonlinear magnetic field dependence, which is argued as a gap
anisotropy. The Wilson ratio determined is about 2.88. Combining the
novelties found both in the normal state and the SC state, we argue that
the electron correlations may play an important role in the occurrence
of superconductivity in LaRu₃Si₂.

###### Acknowledgements.

We appreciate the useful discussions with Jan Zaanen, Zidan Wang, Zlatko
Tesanovic, Tao Xiang, Qianghua Wang, and Jianxin Li. This work is
supported by the NSF of China, the Ministry of Science and Technology of
China (973 projects: 2011CBA00102), and the Chinese Academy of Sciences.

## References

* (1) J. G. Bednorz and K. A. Muller, Z. Phys. B **64**, 189 (1986). *
(2) Y. Kamihara _et al._, J. Am. Chem. Soc. **130**, 3296 (2008). * (3)
P. W. Anderson _et al._, J. Phys. Condens. Matter **16**, R755 (2004). *
(4) D. J. Scalapino, Phys. Rep. **250**, 329 (1995); T. Moriya and K.
Ueda, Rep. Prog. Phys. **66**, 1299 (2003); P. Monthoux, D. Pines, and
G. Longarch, Nature (London) **450**, 20 (2007). * (5) N. Ni, M. E.
Tillman, J. Q. Yan, A. Kracher, S. T. Hannahs, S. L. Bud ko, and P. C.
Canfield, Phys. Rev. B **78**, 214515 (2008). * (6) Q. M. Si and F.
Steglich, Science **329**, 1161 (2010). * (7) M. Dressel _et al._, J.
Phys. Condens. Matter **23**, 293201 (2011). * (8) M. Escorne, A.
Mauger, L. C. Gupta, and C. Godart, Phys. Rev. B **49**, 12051 (1994). *
(9) H. C. Ku _et al._, Solid State Commun. **35**, 91 (1980). * (10) H.
Barz, Mater. Res. Bull. **15**, 1489 (1980); J. M. Vandenberg and H.
Barz, _ibid_. **15**, 1493 (1980). * (11) C. Godart and L. C. Gupta,
Phys. Lett. **120**, 427 (1987). * (12) U. Rauchschwalbe, W. Lieke, F.
Steglich, C. Godart, L. C. Gupta, and R. D. Parks, Phys. Rev. B **30**,
444 (1984). * (13) Grzegorz Haran, Jason Taylor, and A. D. S. Nagi,
Phys. Rev. B **55**, 11778 (1997). * (14) Leonid A. Openov, Phys. Rev. B
**69**, 224516 (2004). * (15) S. D. Wilson _et al._, Proc. Natl. Acad.
Sci. USA **104**, 15259 (2007). * (16) W. Reese and W. L. Johnson, Phys.
Rev. B **2**, 2972 (1970). * (17) H. D. Yang and J.-Y. Lin, J. Phys.
Chem. Solids **62**, 1861 (2001). * (18) H. v. Loehneysen, A. Rosch, M.
Vojta, and P. Woelfle, Rev. Mod. Phys. **79**, 1015 (2007). * (19) K. G.
Wilson, Rev. Mod. Phys. **47**, 773 (1975). * (20) P. Blaha, K. Schwarz,
G. Madsen, D. Kvasicka, and J. Luitz, WIEN2K, An Augmented Plane Wave +
Local Orbitals Program for Calculating Crystal Properties (Technical
University of Vienna, Vienna, 2001). * (21) J. P. Perdew, K. Burke, and
M. Ernzerhof, Phys. Rev. Lett. **77**, 3865 (1996) * (22) D. J. Singh
and M. H. Du, Phys. Rev. Lett. **100**, 237003 (2008). * (23) A. S.
Sefat, R. Jin, M. A. McGuire, B. C. Sales, D. J. Singh, and D. Mandrus,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **101**, 117004 (2008). * (24) S. L. Bud’ko, Ni Ni, and
P. C. Canfield, Phys. Rev. B **79**, 220516 (2009).
