Superconductivity at 55 K in La_(0.7)Sr_(1.3)Cu(O,F)_(4 + δ) with
reduced CuO₂ sheets and apical anions

Xiaolong Chen

Institute of Physics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100080,
People’s Republic of China

Jingkui Liang

Institute of Physics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100080,
People’s Republic of China

and International Center for Materials Physics, Academia Sinica,
Shenyang 10015, People’s Republic of China

Weihua Tang

Institute of Physics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100080,
People’s Republic of China

Long Wang

Institute of Physics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100080,
People’s Republic of China

Guanghui Rao

Institute of Physics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100080,
People’s Republic of China

22 June 1995

###### Abstract

Superconducting copper fluoride La_(0.7)Sr_(1.3)Cu(O,F)_(4 + δ) with
T_(c)=55 K had been synthesized via the solid phase fluorination of
La_(0.7)Sr_(1.3)CuO_(3.25) with CuF₂ at relatively low temperature. The
fluoride is a derivative of its precursor, but its lattice constant a is
expanded from 3.7547(5) to 3.9368(7) A, while its lattice parameter c is
expanded from 12.896(3) to 13.075(4) A. The obvious difference in
lattice parameters and crystal structure seems to distinguish this
compound from the superconducting Sr₂CuO₂F_(4 + δ) reported in a recent
study. It gives strong evidence for superconductivity with reduced CuO₂
sheets while in the presence of apical oxygen or fluorine.

22 June 1995

## I Introduction

Fluorine can be used as an electronic dopant to induce
superconductivity, as in La₂CuO₄F_(δ) (Ref. [1]) and Nd₂CuO_(4 − x)F_(x)
(Ref. [2]) or as a flux to improve the superconductivity as in
YBa₂Cu₃O₇F_(δ) (Ref. [3]) and Bi₂Sr₂Ca₂Cu₃(O,F)_(y) (Ref. [4]).
Recently, Al-Mamouri _et al.[5]_ demonstrated that fluorine can promote
the interchange of O and F ions to create the structural feature
necessary to support superconductivity at 46 K by low-temperature
fluorination of Sr₂CuO₃ with F₂ gas. More recently, Slater _et al.[6]_
and Kadam _et al.[7]_ reported a simple and efficient solid-phase
fluorination of Sr₂CuO₃ with NH₄F. In superconducting Sr₂CuO₃F_(2 + δ),
apical oxygen atoms are completely replaced by fluorine and partial
oxygen atoms are forced to occupy the equatorial sites to form complete
CuO₂ sheets in which half oxygen atoms are originally vacant in Sr₂CuO₃.
This provides an alternative chemical route to simulate the
thermodynamic effects of high pressure. At 6 GPa and 800-900 ^(∘)C,
Sr₂CuO₃ absorbs small amounts of oxygen and oxygen atoms forced a
transfer from apical to equatorial sites to a metastable superconducting
Sr₂CuO_(3.1) with T_(c) =70 K.[8]

La_(0.7)Sr_(1.3)CuO_(3.25) is an end member of the solid solution
La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO_(4 − y) (x≤1.34).[9] It is isostructural to the La
214 phase, but there are many oxygen vacancies distributing randomly in
the CuO₂ sheets, unlike Sr₂CuO₃, where oxygen vacant only exist in the a
direction, forming a one-dimensional Cu-O chain along the b direction
and hence resulting in a orthorhombic structure. According to Al-Mamouri
_et al._’s observation[5] that fluorine can force the apical oxygen to
transfer to equatorial sites to form uniform CuO₂ sheets, it is expected
that similar oxygen transfer might take place by fluorination of
La_(0.7)Sr_(1.3)CuO_(3.35).

Sr⁺ in Sr₂CuO₃ can be substituted by divalent alkaline-earth ions such
as Ba²⁺ and Ca²⁺. La_(0.7)Sr_(1.3)CuO_(3.35) can also be regarded as a
substitution of La³⁺ for Sr²⁺. Compared with Sr₂CuO₃,
La_(0.7)Sr_(1.3)CuO_(3.35) might accommodate more F ions in order to
maintain the electrical neutrality since considerable La³⁺ ions exist.
Apart from entering the apical site, F ions also can enter the
interstitial site (0,1/2,1/4) as in Sr₂CuO₂F_(2 + δ). However, the value
of δ will be limited to some extent to avoid an unacceptably short F-F
distance. This situation is favorable to reduce the (CuO₂)²⁻ sheets
while apical ions are present.

Up to now, copper fluoride can be synthesized by two routes. One is the
gas-solid phase fluorination using F₂ gas as a reaction atmosphere.[5]
Another is the solid-phase fluorination using NH₄F as a fluorinating
reagent.[6; 7] Actually, the latter fluorinating reaction must be
performed in air or O₂.[6] This means that the NH₄F is also used to
create F₂ on the basis of the reaction 2NH₄F+1/2O₂→F₂+2NH₃+H₂O. Taking
advantage of instability of CuF₂, we have examined this possibility by
fluorination of La_(0.7)Sr_(1.3)CuO_(3.35) at low temperature and
ambient pressure using CuF₂ as a fluorinating reagent and successfully
synthesized a superconducting copper oxyfluoride
La_(0.7)Sr_(1.3)Cu(O,F)_(4 + δ) of T_(c)=55 K with reduced CuO₂ sheets
and apical oxygen or fluorine.

## II Experiment

The precursor La_(0.7)Sr_(1.3)CuO_(3.35) was prepared by the solid-state
reaction of an appropriate mixture of high-purity La₃O₂ (99.9

## III Results and discussion

The precursor product was examined by powder x-ray diffraction to be
La_(0.7)Sr_(1.3)CuO_(3.35) with lattice constants a = 3.7547(5) A, c =
12.896(4) A, which are agreeable with the reported value. [9] Some weak
peaks are due to the impurity phase [see Fig. 1(a)]. The impurity phase
in the precursor product has not been identified, but we can be sure
that it is not Sr₂CuO₃. Figure 1(b) shows typically the powder
x-ray-diffraction pattern for La_(0.7)Sr_(1.3)CuO_(3.35);CuF₂ = 1:1
(molar ratio) synthesized at 300 degC. High-purity Si was added to the
samples as an internal standard to correct the positions of diffraction
peaks. The lattice constants were then calculated using a standard
least-squares refinement. The indexing result reveals that a new
tetragonal body-centered phase with lattice constants a = 3.9368(7) A, c
= 13.075(4) A was obtained. It is isostructural to the La 214 phase. In
addition, the powder x-ray-diffraction pattern shows that additional
peaks due to CuO, SrF₂, and small amounts of another tetragonal phase
indicated by the solid circle in Fig. 1(b). By comparing its relatively
intensities with those of the others, the mole fraction of the new phase
is derived to be about 90 mol

The fluorination process can be explained as follows: Since the
fluorination was carried out in air, the reaction CuF₂ + 1/2O₂→CuO + F₂
should exist. Slater _et al._[6] also explained the fluorination using
NH₄F by simple aerial oxidation. They stated that it is not feasible for
samples prepared in N₂ gas. Wang _et al._[10] have obtained a 27-K
superconducting transition in Nd_(2 − x)Sr_(x)Cu(O,F)_(4 + δ) by
annealing Nd_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO_(4 − δ) sample while putting a crucible of
CuF₂ beside it. That clearly indicates the aerial oxidation of CuF₂.
After the aerial oxidation of CuF₂, a small amount of F reacts with Sr
in the precursor to form SrF₂, while most F enters into the precursor to
form the main phase, La_(0.7)Sr_(1.3)Cu(O,F)_(4 + δ). CuO undoubtedly
results from the decomposition of CuF₂. Hence the fluorination products
are the superconducting main phase, the Sr-poor tetragonal phase, SrF₂,
and CuO.

Because the samples are all multiphase nature, we did not attempted to
determine the F content of the main phase. However, if the sample is
heated in an oxygen flow at 500 degC for 6 h, the main phase disappears
and much more SrF₂ forms at the same time. This means that the main
phase contains considerable F. The large expansion of lattice constant a
gives further evidence. In view of the instability of the main phase at
even moderate temperature (500 degC) in air, pellets were not calcined
and resistance measurements were not performed. Its superconducting
properties were examined magnetically with a dc SQUID magnetometer,
using a field of 20 Oe. All samples are superconducting with onset
temperatures 30-50 K, but with magnetic hystereses. The superconducting
volume fraction was estimated based on the magnetic measurement results
by using the relation η=(4πρM/H) 100

Because of the multiphase nature of the samples, the phase responsible
for superconductivity should be isolated. SrF₂ and CuO are undoubtedly
not responsible for superconductivity at 55 K. The Sr-poor tetragonal
phase might be superconducting because its composition is close to

Figure 1: X-ray-powder-diffraction pattern (Cu _K__α_) for precursor
La_(0.7)Sr_(1.3)CuO_(3.35) (a); * indicates the impurity phase; the
fluorination products (b); ⨁ indicates the Sr-poor tetragonoal phase.

the well-known superconductor La_(1.35)Sr_(0.15)CuO₄. However, the known
highest superconducting transition temperature is below 40 K for the La
214 phase. Furthermore, after being annealed in an oxygen flow at 500
^(∘)C for 6 h, the sample with a superconducting transition temperature
55 K gives weaker flux exclusions and its transition temperature is
reduced to about 30 K [Fig. 3(a)]. This is not consistent with the
general trend for T_(c) of the hole-type La 214 superconductor. A powder
x-ray-diffraction pattern shows that the main phase disappears and has
been converted to the Sr-poor tetragonal phase with lattice constants a
= 3.792(2) A, c = 13.322(2) A, and much more SrF₂ forms at the same
time. The weak flux exclusion at about 30 K can be attributed to the
existence of small amounts of La 214 superconductors. In contrast, if
the same sample is annealed at 420 ^(∘)C for 4 h in a flow N₂, it
exhibited two orders of magnitude stronger flux exclusion, while its
structure has no noticeable change, though its transition temperature is
reduced to about 16 K [Fig. 3(b)]. The superconducting volume fraction
is estimated to be about 12

Al-Mamouri _et al._’s observation[5] and a Madelung energy
calculation[13] reveal that F ions preferably occupy apical sites. In
addition, F ions also can enter into the interstitial sites (0,1/2,1/4)
as in Sr₂CuO₂F_(2 + δ) (Ref. [5]) to maintain electrical neutrality.
This will lead to the chemical formula La_(0.7)Sr_(1.5)CuO₂F_(2 + δ) for
the main phase. Another possibility is that partial O ions enter into
the interstitial sites and lead to the chemical formula
La_(0.7)Sr_(1.3)CuF₂O_(2 + δ). At present, we cannot tell from these two
possible chemical formulas and adopt tentatively
La_(0.7)Sr_(1.3)Cu(O,F)_(4 + δ) as its formula. Preliminary structure
simulations, taking advantage of the fact that the ratio of diffraction
intensities of (110) and (103), I(110)/I(103) strongly depends on the
occupation of apical site and interstitial sites, can give some useful
information on the occupation. Full occupation of apical sites gives 81

The nature of the superconductivity carriers cannot be assigned
conclusively at present. From the structural point of view, it seems to
be an electron-type superconductor with apical oxygen or fluorine.
First, it has a large lattice parameter a = 3.9368(7) A. It is well
known that the Cu-O bond length and oxygen coordination number seem to
be important factors controlling the (CuO₂)²⁻ sheets to be reduced to
induce electron-doped superconductivity or to be oxidated to induce
hole-doped superconductivity.[11, 12] The known n-type superconductors,
T^(′)-phase R_(2 − δ)Ce_(x)CuO₄ (R stands for rare earth), all have
fourfold coordination of the copper in the CuO₂ sheets and the lattice
constants a ≈ 3.90 A and c ≈ 12.3 A; the p-type superconductors,
including T and T^(*) phases, have copper in fivefold or sixfold
coordinations and with lattice constants a ≈ 3.87 A and c ≈ 12.5 A. All
hole-type superconductors with 214 structure have a lattice constant a
less than 3.87 A, while La_(0.7)Sr_(1.3)Cu(O,F)_(4 + δ) has a large
lattice parameter a = 3.9368(7) A. Second, the substitution of La³⁺ for
Sr²⁺ in La_(0.7)Sr_(1.3)Cu(O,F)_(4 + δ) will introduce more electrons.
Third, if we consider the valence neutrality of the chemical formula
La_(0.7)Sr_(1.3)Cu(O,F)_(4 + δ), we can also deduce a lower valence for
copper ions, at least, lower than + 2 valence. Thus we have reason to
say that La_(0.7)Sr_(1.3)Cu(O,F)_(4 + δ) is a possible electron-type
superconductor. On the other hand, after fluorination, the lattice
constant c of La_(0.7)Sr_(1.3)CuO_(3.35) has a small expansion from
12.896 to 13.075 A, slightly larger than those of usual n-type

Figure 3: Zero-field-cooled magnetization M vs temperature in an applied
field of H = 20 Oe for samples annealed in an oxygen flow at 500 ^(∘)C
(a) and ZFC and FC magnetization M vs temperature for samples in a
nitrogen flow at 420 ^(∘)C for 4 h (b).

Figure 2: Zero-field-cooled magnetization M vs temperature in an applied
field of H = 20 Oe for samples synthesized at 300 ^(∘)C (◇) for 4 h in
air and 200 ^(∘)C (♠) for 16 h in air, respectively.

superconductors, which suggests the presence of apical oxygen or
fluorine.

In summary, this study has revealed that the partial F substitution for
O could reduce the CuO₂ sheets and that superconductivity in the reduced
CuO₂ sheets can arise in the presence of the apical anions. F ions play
not only a dominant structural role, but also the role of an electronic
dopant. Of important significance is that the superconductivity in
La_(0.7)Sr_(1.3)Cu(F,O)_(4 + δ) provides new structural features
necessary for high-T_(c) superconductors.

###### Acknowledgements.

This work is supported by the National Center for Research & Development
of superconductivity of China and the National Natural Science
Foundation of China. We thank B. Yin and T. S. Ning for experimental
help.

## References

* [1] B. M. Tissue, K. M. Crillo, and J. C. Wright, Solid State Commun.
**65**, 51 (1988). * [2] A. C. W. P. James, S. M. Zahurak, and D. W.
Murph, Nature **338**, 240 (1989). * [3] N. P. Bansal and A. L.
Sandkuhl, Appl. Phys. Lett. **52**, 838 (1988). * [4] S. Y. Lee, S.
Suchara, and S. Houriuch, Physica C **185-189**, 477 (1991). * [5] M.
Al-Mamouri, P. P. Edwards, C. Greaves, and M. Slaski, Nature **369**,
382 (1994). * [6] P. R. Slater, P. P. Edwards, C. Greaves, I. Gameson,
M. G. Francesconi, J. P. Hodges, M. Al-Mamouri, and M. Slaski, Physica C
**241**, 151 (1995). * [7] R. M. Kadam, B. N. Wani, M. D. Sastry, and U.
R. K. Rao, Physica C **246**, 262 (1995). * [8] Z. Hirol, M. Takano, M.
Azuma, and Y. Takeda, Nature **364**, 315 (1993). * [9] N. Nguyen, J.
Choisnet, M. Hervieu, and B. Raveau, J. Solid State Chem. **39**, 120
(1981). * [10] C. Wang, _et al._, Physica C (to be published). * [11] M.
G. Smith, A. Manthiram, J. Zhou, J. B. Goodenough, and J. T. Market,
Nature **351**, 549 (1991). * [12] J. B. Goodenough and A. Manthiram, J.
Solid State Chem. **88**, 115 (1990). * [13] J. W. Weenk and H. A. T.
Harwig, Phys. Chem. Solids **38**, 1047 (1977).
