Evidence for two fluids in cuprate superconductors from a nuclear
resonance study of
(Ca_(x)La_(1 − x))(Ba_(1.75 − x)La_(0.25 + x))Cu₃O_(y)

Amit Keren, Amit Kanigel,* and Galina Bazalitsky

Technion-Israel Institute of Technology, 32000 Haifa, Israel

Received 21 September 2006; published 27 November 2006

###### Abstract

We report charge density measurements, using NMR, in the superconducting
compound (Ca_(x)La_(1 − x))(Ba_(1.75 − x)La_(0.25 + x))Cu₃O_(y), which
has two independent variables, x (family) and y (oxygen). For underdoped
samples we find the rate at which holes are introduced into the plane
upon oxygenation to be family independent. In contrast, not all carriers
contribute to either antiferromagnetic or superconducting order
parameters. This result is consistent with a two-fluid phenomenology or
intrinsic mesoscopic inhomogeneities in the bulk. We also discuss the
impact of weak chemical disorder on _T__(c).

pacs: 10.1103/PhysRevB.74.172506 + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL REVIEW
B **74**, 172506 (2006)

Proper counting of holes in the cuprates is essential for understanding
their properties. Since they have a small ratio of coherence length to
mean free path, they are considered clean superconductors where the
carrier density n is the same as the superconducting carrier density
n_(s) in the zero-temperature limit.[1] In contrast, modern experiments
in the superconducting part of the phase diagram consistently find
strong inhomogeneities in these materials.[2, 3] Moreover, several
theories of cuprate superconductivity are based on two fluids comprised
of hole-poor and hole-rich regions,[4] bosons and fermions,[5] hot and
cold electrons,[6] etc. This contradiction leads to the question: Do all
holes participate in the superconducting order parameter? Addressing
this question requires a simultaneous measurement of n and n_(s). The
in-plane ⁶³Cu(2) nuclear quadrupole resonance (NQR) parameter n_(Q) is a
direct measure of n_(s) can be extracted from the penetration depth. In
this work we compare the two numbers for different superconducting
families. We find that n_(s) is not a universal fraction of n_(s), and
provide a simple relation between n_(s) and y, from parent to overdoped
samples. The data support two-fluid-based theories for the entire phase
diagram, but constrain the possible division between the fluids.

Our study is done on the
(Ca_(x)La_(1 − x))(Ba_(1.75 − x)La_(0.25 + x))Cu₃O_(y) (CLBLCO) compound
where each value of x is a superconducting family with its own maximum
T_(c) (T_(c)^(max)) ranging between 58 and 80 K, as shown in Fig.
1(a).[7] By choosing a sample with a particular x and oxygen level y one
can control n and n_(s), independently. This allows determination of the
rates at which oxygenation produces carriers and carriers turn
superconducting. We evaluate the average n_(Q) from ⁶³Cu(2) nuclear
magnetic resonance (NMR) measurements. In passing, we estimate the
chemical disorder from the width D_n__Q_ of the n_(Q) distribution.
n_(s) is obtained from previous muon spin rotation (_m_SR)
measurements.[2]

The ability of NMR to determine carrier density is based on the fact
that ⁶³Cu, with its spin-3/2 nuclei, is directly coupled to charge
degrees of freedom via the electric field gradient (EFG), and n_(Q) is a
measure of this coupling. n_(Q), in turn, depends linearly on the hole
density[8] according to

ν_(Q) = An + ν_(Q)⁰,

where A and ν_(Q)⁰ are doping independent, but, in principle, could be
family dependent. This linear dependence was demonstrated for various
compounds such as Y123,[9] La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄,[10] and
HaBa₂CuO_(4 + y).[11] Therefore, Eq. (1) and the ability of NMR to
detect the in-plane copper [Cu(2)] n_(Q) selectively will allow us to
determine the evolution of the in-plane carrier concentration and the
width of its distribution.

The measurements were done on powder samples fully enriched with ⁶³Cu.
Their preparation is described in Ref. [12]. The oxygen content was
measured by double iodometric titration. The accuracy of this method in
the enriched CLBLCO is about 0.01. We measured between five and seven
different samples for each x in the normal state at 100 K. The most
overdoped sample is a nonsuperconducting _x_=0.1 compound. The NMR
measurements were done by

Figure 1: (Color online) (a) The superconducting part of the
(Ca_(x)La_(1 − x))(Ba_(1.75 − x)La_(0.25 + x))Cu₃O_(y) phase diagram
(Ref. [12]). (b) Normalized critical temperatures plotted as a function
of K(x)Δy, including the glass T_(g) temperature, and corrected Néel
temperature T_(N)^(cor) (see text) (Ref. [7]). Inset: the normalized
muon spin relaxation rates taken from Ref. [2] as a function of oxygen
level y for the x =0.1 and 0.4 CLBLCO samples.

sweeping the field in a constant applied frequency $f_{\rm app}$ = 77.95
MHz, using a π/2- π echo sequence. The echo signal was averaged 100 000
times and its area evaluated as a function of field. The full spectrum
of the optimally doped x = 0.4 sample (y = 7.156) is shown in the inset
of Fig. 2.

The Cu spin Hamiltonian can be written as[13]

$${\cal H}/h = -\nu_{l}{\bf I} \cdot (1 + {\bf K}) \cdot \hat{\bf H} + \frac{\nu_{Q}}{6}[3{\bf I}_{z}^{2} - {\bf I}^{2} + \eta({\bf I}_{x}^{2} - {\bf I}_{y}^{2})],$$
(2)

where ν_(l)=(⁶³γ/2 π)H, $\hat{\bf H}$ is a unit vector in the direction
of the field, ${\bf K}$ is the shift tensor, and η is the asymmetry
parameter of the EFG. In the absence of magnetic field, there is only
one transition frequency given by f = ν_(Q)$\sqrt{1 + \eta/3}$, so ν_(Q)
cannot be separated from η, and the use of the magnetic field is
essential. This field, applied in the direction θ and ϕ with respect to
the principal axis of the EFG, lifts this degeneracy, and three
transition frequencies ν_(m)(H, θ, φ) are expected: a center line that
corresponds to the 1/2 → -1/2 transition (m = 0), and two satellites
that correspond to the 3/2 → 1/2 (m = 1) and −1/2 → -3/2 (m = -1)
transitions. Expressions for ν_(m)(H, θ, φ) up to second-order
perturbation theory in ν_(Q) for completely asymmetric EFG and shift
tensors are given in Ref. 14. In a powder spectrum, where θ and φ are
integrated out, each one of the m = -1 and m = 1 transitions contributes
one peak, and the m = 0 transition generates two peaks provided that η<
1.[14, 15] In principle, the bigger ν_(Q) is, the further the peaks are
away from each other. Similarly, the wider the peaks are, the broader
the distribution of ν_(Q). In CLBLCO as in YBCO, the middle peak is from
the Cu(1), which has η∼ 1. This peak is labeled 1 in the inset of Fig.
2. The other four peaks are associated with the plane Cu(2) and are
labeled 2.

A zoom on the main features of the Cu(2) signal of all four optimally
doped samples is depicted in Fig. 2 (note the three axis breakers). The
evolution of the main peaks as x increases is highlighted by the dotted
lines. It is clear that as x decreases the peaks move away from each
other. This means that ν_(Q) at optimal doping is a decreasing function
of x. A more interesting observation is the fact that there is no change
in the width of the peaks, at least not one that can easily be spotted
by the naked eye. This means that the distribution of ν_(Q) is x
independent and that there is no difference in the weak chemical
disorder (WCD) between the optimally doped samples of the different
families. By WCD we mean disorder that is not strong enough to "wipe
out" the contribution of the Cu(2) in its vicinity from the spectrum.
Thus, WCD is not relevant to the variation of $T_{c}^{\rm max}$ between
the different families. As we shall see, this conclusion is supported by
more rigorous analysis.

Although we limit our conclusion to WCD, it is important to place a few
limitations on the possible existence of strong chemical disorder. The
difference in ionic size between La and Ba in the Ba layer creates local
lattice distortions. These impact the apical oxygen O(4) position, which
contributes to ν_(q^(′)). However a simple calculation based on Eqs. (4)
and (5) in Ref. 16 shown that the probability of finding an O(4) out of
its ideal place increases with x. Therefore, if the O(4) displacement
were important for chemical disorder we would have expected the x = 0.4
family to have a lower T_(c) than the x = 0.1, in contrast to
observation. In addition, magic angle spinning (MAS) Ca NMR found only
one line.[17] This ensures the existence of only one Ca site. Also,
since Ca and Ba have the same valence, and the total amount of La is
fixed, doping is done only by the chain layer oxygen, which is
relatively remote from the CuO₂ layer. Therefore, chemical disorder is
expected to be minimal. Overall, we cannot find evidence for the
existence or importance of strong chemical disorder.

The evolution of the main peaks for x = 0.4 as a function of y is shown
in Fig. 3. Here, as y increases the peaks move away from each other,
i.e., ν_(Q) increases as a function of doping as expected from Eq. (1).
Similar data for the x = 0.1 family can be found in Ref. 18.

Figure 3: (Color online) NMR spectra of ⁶³Cu(2) at T = 100 K in CLBLCO
samples with x = 0.4 and varying y. The positions of the peaks are shown
by dotted lines.

Figure 2: (Color online) NMR spectra of ⁶³Cu at T = 100 K in optimally
doped CLBLCO samples with varying x. The inset shows the full spectrum
of the x = 0.4 compound including contributions from Cu(1) and Cu(2).
The main figure zooms in on the Cu(2) contribution (note the three axis
breakers). The position of the Cu(2) peaks are shown by dotted lines.
The solid lines are theoretical fits (see text).

In order to analyze these data more precisely we must fit them to a
field-swept powder spectrum P(H) which is given by

$$P_{m}(H)\propto\sum_{m}\ \int M^{2}\delta\!J_{\rm app}-\nu_{m}(H,\theta,\varphi)]d\Omega$$
(3)

where M is a matrix element. Usually one can extract all the averaged
Hamiltonian parameters from the position of the peaks in the
spectra.[15] However, we are interested in both the parameters and their
distribution. Therefore, we must account for the entire line shape. For
this purpose we simulate the line by using a grid in the (θ, ϕ) space,
calculate the frequency ν_(m)(H, θ, φ) for every m, field, and point on
the grid, and add 1 to a histogram of H when one of the frequencies
ν_(m) equals $f_{\rm app}$. The matrix elements are taken as unity. This
numerical simulation approximates P(H) in Eq. (3). To account for the
peak widths we assume that the main contribution to this width, of the
order of a few megahertz, is from a distribution in ν_(Q), since the
quadrupole interaction is the only interaction of such magnitude in the
system. Consequently, we added to the numerical evaluation of Eq. (3) a
loop over 200 values of ν_(Q) drawn from a normal distribution with a
width Δν_(Q). We also added the contribution of the chain site, with
η ∼ 1. We searched for the best fit to the data by χ² minimization using
a simplex code.[19] The result for the optimal doped samples is shown as
the solid line in Fig. 2.

The fit is not perfect, mostly because the spectrum is not symmetric.
Such an asymmetric spectrum is a result of correlations between
different _a priori_ random parameters in the Hamiltonian.[20] For
example, if the shift tensor K is also non-uniform in the sample but its
values are correlated with the values of ν_(Q), the spectrum could be
nonsymmetric. Attempts to take this kind of effect into account failed
due to the enormous increase in computing time. We continue the
discussion based on the best fit we could practically achieve. For a
discussion on the error bar evaluation see Ref. [18]. We could not
determine K_(z), K_(x), and K_(y) very accurately, and found very small
η for all the samples, ranging from 0 to 0.1, in agreement with various
estimates for Y123.[21]

The results for fitted ν_(Q) and Δν_(Q) are shown in Figs. 4(a) and
4(b), respectively. From Fig. 4(a) it is clear that ν_(Q) grows linearly
with doping in the underdoped side of the phase diagram, in agreement
with other compounds,[9, 10, 11] and Eq. (1). It is also clear that
ν_(Q)⁰ in this equation is x dependent, but this could be attributed to
NQR baseline properties. In contrast, the behavior in the overdoped side
of the x = 0.1 is surprising since ν_(Q) saturates. As pointed out
before in Ref. [18], the added holes on the overdoped side no longer go
into the planes.

The most interesting finding is that within the experimental error, the
slope of ν_(Q)(x, y) in the underdoped side is x independent, as
demonstrated by the parallel solid lines, and ∂ν_(Q)(x, y)/∂φ= 7.2(1.4)
MHz/oxygen. This means that the rate at which holes are introduced into
the CuO₂ planes, ∂n/∂φ, is a constant independent of x or y in the
underdoped region. Using further the ubiquitous assumption that the
optimal hole density $n^{\rm opt}$ at optimal oxygenation $y^{\rm opt}$
is universal, we conclude that n(x, y) is a function only of
Δy = y$-\,y^{\rm opt}$. This result was predicted previously[16] based
on bond valence calculations.

An implication of this conclusion is that the Presland _et al._
formula[22]$T_{c}/T_{c}^{\rm max}=1-82.6(n-0.16)^{2}$ could not be
correct for CLBLCO. For example, the x = 0.1 and 0.4 samples with
T_(c) = 0 have different Δy, and according to our experiment different
n. However, the Presland formula predicts the same n.

If the conversion from oxygen to holes is universal, but different
families begin to superconduct at different y values (see Fig. 1), it
means that the rate at which holes turn into superconducting carriers is
family dependent. To demonstrate this concept further we focus on the
region of the CLBLCO phase diagram where T_(c) grows linearly with
doping, as emphasized by the solid lines in Fig. 1(a). This behavior is
unique to CLBLCO, which does not show a 1/8 dip or plateau in T_(c). We
determine n_(s) from μSR measurement at T → 0. The μSR relaxation rate σ
is a measure of the density of superconducting carriers, and
$\sigma/\sigma^{\rm opt}=n_{s}/n_{\rm F}^{\rm opt}$. In the inset of
Fig. 1(b) we depict $\sigma/\sigma^{\rm opt}$, taken from Ref. [2], as a
function of y for two extreme families with x = 0.1 and 0.4. In this
particular region ∂n_(s)/∂φ is a constant, which is family dependent and
denoted hereafter by K(x). Using the universality of ∂n/∂φ we find that
∂n_(s)/∂n = K(x)(∂n/∂φ)⁻¹, which varies between families. This, again,
rules out the possibility that n_(s) =n in all CLBLCO samples.

In light of previous work a stronger conclusion could in fact be
extended to the entire phase diagram of CLBLCO. In Fig. 1(b), taken from
Ref. [7], we depict $T_{N}^{\rm cor}$, T_(p), and T_(c), normalized by
$T_{c}^{\rm max}$ of each family. $T_{N}^{\rm cor}$ is the Neel
temperature after the contribution from anisotropies have been di

Figure 4: (Color online) (a) Nuclear quadrupole resonance frequency of
⁶³Cu(2) in all the CLBLCO samples extracted from the NMR spectra as
described in the text. (b) The width of the nuclear quadrupole resonance
frequency distribution of ⁶³Cu(2) in all the CLBLCO samples extracted
from the NMR spectra as described in the text.

vided out. The scaled variable K(x)Δy, with K = 0.77, 0.67, 0.54, 0.47,
for x= 0.1−0.4, respectively, collapsed the entire phase diagram into a
single function. However, no interpretation was given for K(x). The
present experiment suggests that ∂n_(s)/∂y=K(x) over the entire phase
diagram, and that n_(s) should be considered as carriers participating
in both superconducting and antiferromagnetic order parameters.

As for the linewidth, examination of Fig. 4(b) reassures us of our
previous intuition that Δν_(Q) is not changing between the different
families, especially for the optimally doped samples. This becomes
obvious when considering Δν_(Q) of YBCO₇ at T=100 K, which also has
ν_(Q)=31 MHz, but Δν_(Q)=0.5 MHz.[23] The changes in Δν_(Q) between
x=0.4 and 0.1 are minute compared to the changes between x=0.1 and
YBCO₇. Yet x=0.4 has a $T_{c}^{\rm max}$ very similar to that of YBCO₇.
Thus, if YBCO is considered disorder-free, the difference in WCD between
x=0.4 and 0.1 either does not exist or is not relevant. The same
conclusion was reached by MAS Ca NMR.[17]

In summary, we find that the rate at which holes are doped into the
planes when oxygen is added, ∂n/∂y, is identical in all families in the
superconducting underdoped region. In part of this region, the rate at
which holes contribute to the condensate ∂n_(s)/∂n∝K(x) is a
family-dependent constant. Based on this and previous findings, we
conclude that in CLBLCO not all oxygens contribute holes to the
superconducting and antiferromagnetic order parameters. We also show
that weak chemical disorder, as determined from Δν_(Q), is not playing a
role in the $T_{c}^{\rm max}$ variations. This reinforces previous
conclusions that the changes in $T_{c}^{\rm max}$ between different
CLBLCO families is caused only by variation in the in-plane coupling
constant J.[24, 7] Finally, since ν_(q) is not changing in the overdoped
side as the oxygen level increases, on this side holes are not added to
the planes. The open question in this study is which physical or
chemical property of CLBLCO sets K(x).

This work was funded by the Israeli Science Foundation. We are grateful
to Arkady Knizhnik for his help with the iodometric titration and to
Assa Auerbach for helpful discussion.

## References

* [9] Current address: Department of Physics, University of Illinois at
Chicago, IL 60607. * [10] J. L. Tallon, J. R. Cooper, S. H. Naqib, and
J. W. Loram, Phys. Rev. B **73**, 180504(R) (2006). * [11] A. Keren, A.
Kanigel, J. S. Lord, and A. Amato, Solid State Commun. **126**, 39
(2003); A. Kanigel, A. Keren, A. Knizhnik, and O. Shafir, Phys. Rev. B
**71**, 224511 (2005). * [12] J. M. Tranquada _et al._, Nature (London)
**375**, 561 (1995); Ch. Niedermayer, C. Bernhard, T. Blasius, A.
Golnik, A. Moodenbaugh, and J. I. Budnick, Phys. Rev. Lett. **80**, 3843
(1998); C. Howald, P. Fournier, and A. Kapitulnik, Phys. Rev. B **64**,
100504(R) (2001); S. H. Pan _et al._, Nature (London) **413**, 282
(2001); M. Vershinin _et al._, Science **303**, 1995 (2004). * [13] V.
J. Emery and S. A. Kivelson, Physica C **209**, 597 (1993). * [14] E.
Altman and A. Auerbach, Phys. Rev. B **65**, 104508 (2002); J.
Ranninger, J. M. Robin, and M. Eschrig, Phys. Rev. Lett. **74**, 4027
(1995); R. Friedberg and T. D. Lee, Phys. Rev. B **40**, 6745 (1989). *
[15] D. Pines, cond-mat/0404151 (unpublished). * [16] R. Ofer _et al._,
cond-mat/0606695 (unpublished). * [17] K. Asayama _et al._, Prog. Nucl.
Magn. Reson. Spectrosc. **28**, 221 (1996). * [18] H. Yasuoka, in
_Spectroscopy of Mott Insulator and Correlated Metals_, edited by A.
Fujimori and Y. Tokura, Solid State Sciences Vol. 119 (Springer-Verlag,
Berlin, 1995), p. 213. * [19] G.-q. Zheng _et al._, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn.
**64**, 2524 (1995). * [20] A. A. Gippius _et al._, Physica C **276**,
57 (1997). * [21] D. Goldschmidt, A. Knizhnik, Y. Direktovitch, G. M.
Reisner, and Y. Eckstein, Phys. Rev. B **49**, 15928 (1994). * [22] C.
P. Slichter, _Principles of Magnetic Resonance_ (Harper and Row, New
York, 1963). * [23] J. F. Baugher, P. C. Taylor, T. Oja, and P. J. Bray,
J. Chem. Phys. **50**, 4914 (1969). * [24] A. Keren, P. Mendels, M.
Horvalic, F. Ferrer, Y. J. Uemara, M. Melcata, and T. Asano, Phys. Rev.
B **57**, 10745 (1998). * [25] O. Chmaissem, Y. Eckstein, and C. G.
Kuper, Phys. Rev. B **63**, 174510 (2001). * [26] S. Marchand, Ph. D.
thesis, Universite Paris 6, Paris, 2005. * [27] A. Kanigel and A. Keren,
Phys. Rev. B **74**, 012505 (2006). * [28] W. H. Press _et al._,
_Numerical Recipes in C_ (Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, U.K.,
1988). * [29] J. Haase, C. P. Slichter, R. Stern, C. T. Milling, and D.
G. Hinks, J. Supercond. **13**, 723 (2000). * [30] C. H. Pennington, D.
J. Durand, D. B. Zax, C. P. Slichter, J. P. Rice, and D. M. Ginsberg,
Phys. Rev. B **37**, 7944 (1988); T. Shimizu _et al._, J. Phys. Soc.
Jpn. **57**, 2494 (1988). * [31] M. R. Preslan _et al._, Physica C
**176**, 95 (1991). * [32] R. Ofer, S. Levy, A. Kanigel, and A. Keren,
Phys. Rev. B **73**, 012503 (2006). * [33] A. Kanigel, A. Keren, Y.
Eckstein, A. Knizhnik, J. S. Lord, and A. Amato, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**88**, 137003 (2002).
