Phonon density of states, anharmonicity, electron-phonon coupling, and
possible multigap superconductivity in the clathrate superconductors
Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀: Factors behind large difference in T_(c)

Rolf Lortz

Romain Viennois

Department of Condensed Matter Physics, University of Geneva, 24 Quai
Ernest-Ansermet, CH-1211 Geneva 4, Switzerland

Alexander Petrovic

Department of Condensed Matter Physics, University of Geneva, 24 Quai
Ernest-Ansermet, CH-1211 Geneva 4, Switzerland

Yuxing Wang

Department of Condensed Matter Physics, University of Geneva, 24 Quai
Ernest-Ansermet, CH-1211 Geneva 4, Switzerland

Pierre Toulemonde

Departement MCMF, Institut Neel, CNRS and Universite Joseph Fourier, 25
Avenue des Martyrs, Boite Postale 166, F-38042 Grenoble Cedex 9, France

Christoph Meingast

Institut fur Festkorperphysik, Forschungszentrum Karlsruhe, D-76021
Karlsruhe, Germany

Michael Marek Koza

Institut Laue-Langevin, 6 rue Jules Horowitz, F-38042 Grenoble Cedex 9,
France

Hannu Mutka

Institut Laue-Langevin, 6 rue Jules Horowitz, F-38042 Grenoble Cedex 9,
France

Alexei Bossak

European Synchrotron Radiation Facility, 6 rue Jules Horowitz, F-38043
Grenoble Cedex 9, France

Alfonso San Miguel

Laboratoire PMCN, Universite Lyon 1, CNRS, UMR 5586, F-69622
Villeurbanne, France

3 April 2008; revised manuscript received 21 May 2008; published 18 June
2008

###### Abstract

We report a detailed study of specific heat, electrical resistivity, and
thermal expansion in combination with inelastic neutron and inelastic
x-ray scattering to investigate the origin of superconductivity in the
two silicon clathrate superconductors Ba₈Si₄₆ and Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀. Both
compounds have a similar structure based on encaged barium atoms in
oversized silicon cages. However, the transition temperatures are rather
different: 8 and 1.5 K, respectively. By extracting the superconducting
properties, phonon density of states, electron-phonon coupling function,
and phonon anharmonicity from these measurements, we discuss the
important factors governing T_(c) and explain the difference between the
two compounds.

pacs: 10.1103/PhysRevB.77.224507 + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL REVIEW
B **77**, 224507 (2008)

## I Introduction

Novel materials based on structures with metallic ions located in
oversized crystalline cages are an intriguing family. The encaged ions
form a nanoscale crystalline subnetwork and influence a wide variety of
physical properties. Among these materials, those that become
superconducting are particularly interesting since they represent model
systems in which to study the electron-phonon interactions which mediate
superconductivity. Examples of such systems include borides (e.g., YB₆
and ZrB₁₂), [1, 2, 3]β-pyrochlore superconductors AOs₂O₆ (A = Cs, Rb, K
with T_(c) = 3.3, 6.3, and 9.6 K, respectively), [4, 5] certain
Chevrel-type molybdenum clusters, [6] and, in principle, the prominent
superconductor MgB₂ (T_(c) = 39 K), [7, 8] although in the latter case
the cages are represented by open layers in between 2d boron planes.
Similar systems are furthermore found in metallic cubic fullerides
A₃C₆₀; however here the alkali (A) ions are intercalated between the
cages. [8]

The filled clathrates based on group-IV elements (i.e., Si, Ge, …) also
belong to this family of materials and include several superconductors.
[9, 10, 11, 12] Type-I (e.g., Ba₈Si₄₆) and type-II (e.g., Na₈Si₁₃₆) Si
clathrates form three-dimensional crystalline lattices based on rigid
oversized 20 and 24 or 28 atom Si cages in which metal atoms are
enclosed. [13, 14] The type-III Si clathrate (e.g., Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀) is built
from the same "closed" Si₂₀ cages but also comprises "open" Si₂₀ cages
and pseudocubic Si₈ cages. [15]

In type-I and type-II Si clathrates, the metal ions are located in a
cagelike crystalline host, formed by semiconducting sp³-hybridized
networks of Si. In the type-III Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀ clathrate, only 68 of the 100
Si atoms present a nearly pure sp³ character. The study of such
structures based on networks of covalent sp³ bonds has recently
attracted great attention following the discovery of superconductivity
in diamond [16] and diamond-structured Si (Ref. [17]), which in both
cases were doped with boron.

The mechanism of superconductivity was investigated both theoretically
by _ab initio_ calculations and experimentally [18, 19] for the type-I
Ba₈Si₄₆ clathrate. The joint experimental and theoretical study of
Conteable _et al._[18] showed that superconductivity is an intrinsic
property of the sp³ silicon network. A large electron-phonon (e-ph)
coupling (quantified by λ, the e-ph coupling constant) exists in such
covalent structures. In addition, the ²⁸Si₁/³⁰Si isotope substitution
and specific-heat measurements of Tanigaki _et al._[19] proved that a
BCS-type phonon-mediated superconductivity occurs in such compounds.
Furthermore, Toulemonde _et al._[20, 21] showed that the role of caged
alkaline earth atoms in M₈Si₄₆ (M = Ba, Sr, and Ca) is essentially to
provide carriers to the network and enhance the electronic density of
states at the Fermi level N(E_(F)), without affecting significantly the
e-ph coupling potential $V_{\rm{ep}}$ = λ /N(E_(F)). The effect on
superconductivity of partially substituting the type-I Si host network
by Ge, Ga, Au, Ag, etc., has also been studied experimentally over the
last ten years: T_(c) always decreases. [22, 23, 24, 25] Recently, the
theoretical work of Tsé_et al._[26] pointed out that the low-frequency
modes in Ba₈Si₄₆, in particular those arising from the Ba vibrations in
the large Si₂₄ cages, contribute significantly to the electron-phonon
coupling parameter λ. In addition, their calculations also showed that
the low-frequency "rattling" modes of the Ba atoms (particularly the
loosely bound Ba in the large open Si₂₀ cages) are very efficient in
mediating e-ph coupling for superconductivity in Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀. [27]

In the boride [2, 3] and pyrochlore superconductors, [4, 5] ions in
similar oversized crystalline cages usually also exhibit low-energy
vibrations ("Einstein phonons") which have been found to mediate
superconductivity. The β-pyrochlore superconductors and the borides
[e.g., ZrB₁₂ (T_(c)=6 K) (Ref. [1]] and LuB₁₂ (T_(c)=0.4 K) (Ref. [28])]
represent examples of families in which T_(c) can be tuned by changing
the mass of the caged ions. In the case of the two clathrate
superconductors Ba₄Si₄₆ and Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀, it is the size of cages which
varies, while the mass of the guest ion remains the same.

In this paper we investigate the origin of superconductivity in Ba₄Si₄₆
and Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀. The two compounds have a similar structure but the
transition temperatures are rather different: 8 and 1.5 K, respectively.
We extract the superconducting properties, phonon density of states
(from specific-heat measurements, inelastic neutron scattering, and
x-ray scattering), electron-phonon coupling function (electrical
resistivity), and phonon anharmonicity (thermal expansion and inelastic
neutron scattering). Our principal aim is to explain the difference in
T_(c) between the two compounds.

## II Experimental details

Ba₄Si₄₆ and Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀ powder samples have been synthesized under
high-pressure and high-temperature conditions.[21] In the Ba₄Si₄₆
sample, we observe diamond-Si impurities (about 1

The specific heat was measured using a high-precision continuous-heating
adiabatic calorimeter at high temperature between 14 and 300 K, then by
a generalized long relaxation technique[20] at low temperature in a ⁴He
cryostat between ∼ 1.3 and 15 K. Some measurements were repeated in a
³He cryostat. In this method, each relaxation provides about 1000 data
points over a temperature interval of 30

The dc resistivity ρ was measured with a standard four-probe technique
from 2 to 300 K with current reversal using Degussa Letisilber
200${}^{\rm TM}$ (a conducting silver paint) for the contacts. The
residual resistivity of Ba₈Si₄₆ was obtained by suppressing the
superconductivity with a magnetic field of 5.5 T. We obtained ρ(2 K) =
0.68 Ω cm (Ba₃Si₄₆) and ρ(2 K) = 24.4 Ω cm (Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀). For the residual
resistivity ratio, we found ρ(300 K)/ρ(2 K) = 1.77 (Ba₈Si₄₆) and 4.33
(Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀). The large resistivity values and low residual resistivity
ratios arise from the polycrystalline nature of the samples.

A high-resolution capacitance dilatometer was used to measure the
thermal expansion in the temperature range 5-300 K. Data were taken upon
continuous heating at a rate of 15 mK/s with 20 mbar of ⁴He exchange gas
used to thermally couple the sample to the dilatometer.

Inelastic neutron-scattering (INS) experiments have been performed at
the spectrometers IN4 and IN5 at the Institut Laue-Langevin in Grenoble,
France. The incident-neutron wavelength was 2.25 A with an energy
resolution of 0.8 meV. Information on the generalized density of states
has been obtained from the INS spectrum using the incoherent
approximation.[31] These experiments have been completed by inelastic
x-ray scattering experiments (IXS) at the beamline ID28 of the European
Synchrotron Radiation Facility in Grenoble, France.

## III Electron specific heat and electron-phonon coupling strength

The specific heats of Ba₈Si₄₆ and Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀ at low temperature are
presented in Fig. 1. The superconducting-state specific heat C_(S) shows
a sharp second-order jump at T_(c) =8.1 K (Ba₈Si₄₆) and 1.55 K
(Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀). Magnetic fields of 8 T (Ba₈Si₄₆) and 3 T (Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀) are
sufficient to suppress superconductivity completely (see Fig. 2). This
allows us to analyze the normal-state specific heat in a standard way
according to the expansion

$$C_{n}(T\to 0)=\gamma_{n}T+\sum_{k=1}^{3}\beta_{2k+1}T^{2k+1},$$

where the first term is the electronic contribution, with γ_(n)
=$\frac{1}{3}\pi^{2}k_{B}^{2}(1+\lambda_{\rm e-ph})N(E_{F})$, k_(B) as
Boltzmann’s constant, $\lambda_{\rm e-ph}$ as the electron-phonon
coupling constant, and N(E_(F)) as the band-structure density of states
at the Fermi level including two spin directions [i.e., the electronic
density of states (EDOS)]. The second term is the low-temperature
expansion of the lattice specific heat, where
β₃=$\frac{12}{5}N_{\rm A}$,k_(B)π⁴θ_(D)^(*3)(0), with $N_{\rm A}$ as
Avogadro’s number and θ_(D)(0) as the initial Debye temperature. From a
fit from 1.5 to 5 K, we obtain γ_(n) =2.29 mJ/g.at K²= 123.7 mJ/mole K²
(Ba₈Si₄₆) and γ_(n) =1.53 mJ/g.at K²=189.7 mJ/mole K² (Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀). The
value for Ba₈Si₄₆ is slightly smaller than that reported in Ref. [19]
(144 mJ/mole K²). In a few of the samples we investigated, a residual
$\gamma_{n,\rm res}$ arising from impurities was observed. Such a
contribution may lead to a slight overestimation

Figure 1: (Color online) Specific heat divided by temperature (C/T) of
Ba₈Si₄₆ and Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀ at low temperatures showing the superconducting
transitions at 8.1 and 1.55 K, respectively. Inset: C/T of Ba₈Si₄₆ and
Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀ from 0 to 300 K (1 g.at =1/54 mole and 1/124 mole for Ba₈Si₄₆
and Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀, respectively).

of γ_(n). The Ba₈Si₄₆ sample used for the analysis in the present paper
exhibits a fully gapped nature at the lowest temperature without any
residual γ_(n, res). The T_(c) of Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀ is too low to clearly
identify any residual γ_(n, res). However, our γ_(n) value is close to
that of Rachi _et al._[12] (γ_(n) = 182 mJ/mole K²).

Figure 2 shows the data for various magnetic fields for Ba₈Si₄₆ (a) and
Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀ (c). The insets represent the phase diagram with the
superconducting transition temperature as a function of the applied
field. A fit using the standard Werthamer-Helfand-Hohenberg (WHH)
theory[32] leads to estimates of the upper critical field H_(c2)= 5.75 T
(Ba₈Si₄₆) and H_(c2)= 0.35 T (Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀). These values are in close
agreement with estimates from other groups.[11, 123] The dashed lines in
Fig. 2(a) are extracted from the resistivity data [Fig. 2(b)] and
correspond to the temperatures of the onset of the transition (stars),
the midpoint (squares), and the temperature at which the resistance
reaches zero (triangles).

Figure 3 displays in detail the electronic contributions to the specific
heats of the two samples. The phonon contribution was separated using
the low-temperature expansion of the specific heat as obtained from a
fit to the normal-state data. Also included is a fit using a standard
BCS s-wave

Figure 3: (Color online) Electronic contribution to the specific heat
C_(c)/T of Ba₈Si₄₆ (a) and Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀ (b) in zero field. In (a) fits
according to a BCS model with 2Δ₀/k_(B)T_(c)= 4, a two-gap model with
2Δ₀/k_(B)T_(c)= 1.0 (10

Figure 2: (Color online) Resistivity of Ba₈Si₄₆ (a) and Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀ (b)
and C/T of Ba₈Si₄₆ (c) and Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀ (d) at the superconducting
transition in magnetic fields. The dotted lines in (c) and (d) are fits
of the normal-state data (see text for details). The insets in (c) and
(d) show the upper critical field line according to the resistivity
(triangles: ρ=0; squares: midpoint; squares and stars: onset of the
transition) and C/T data (circles correspond to the midpoint of the
jump) in a magnetic field vs temperature phase diagram together with a
standard WHH fit. In the inset of (d), data (open diamonds) from ac
susceptibility measurements (Ref. [11]) are included.

single-band a model (dashed line). This yields an excellent fit above  3
K, with a gap value of 0.47 meV corresponding to 2D_d_/_kBTc_ = 4. At
lower temperature the data exceed the fit, forming a small bump at  1.5
K. This bump indicates an additional contribution from low-energy
excitations which cannot be described by standard BCS behavior. Taking
into consideration the scanning-tunneling spectroscopy data from
Ichimura _et al._, [34] who found evidence for an anisotropic _s_-wave
gap with a minimum gap value of 2Dmin/_kBTc_ = 1.3 and a maximum
2Dmax/_kBTc_ = 4.4, we have performed fits with both an anisotropic
_s_-wave gap (with an elliptical gap distribution) and a two-gap model.
We are able to approximate the characteristic features satisfactorily
using the two-gap model with gap values of 2D_d_0.1/_kBTc_ = 1.0 (10

In the case of Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀ [shown in Fig. 3(b)], the best possible fit we
can obtain with a BCS model is found for 2D_d_0/_kBTc_ = 3.0. However,
the fit shows a strong curvature due to the small gap value and lies
above the data. This deviation may be due to some impurity residual
g_(n),res term, similar to that observed in some of our Ba₈Si₄₆ samples.
Due to our limited temperature range, we were not able to conclusively
identify this in Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀. If however we assume the BCS value for the
relation D_C_/_g__Tc_ = 1.43 we obtain a corrected g_(n),corr = 1.28
mJ/g.at K2 = 158.7 mJ/mole K2. Subtraction of the estimated g_(n),res
value dramatically improves the quality of the BCS fit, with a gap value
of 2D_d_0/_kBTc_ = 3.4.

The Sommerfeld constants of both compounds correspond to a renormalized
density of states at the Fermi level (1 +_k_ep)_N_(E_(F)) = 52.5
states/(eV cell) = 6.6 states/(eV Ba atom) = 0.98 states/(eV atom)
(Ba₈Si₄₆) and (1 +_k_ep)_N_(E_(F)) = 80.4 states/(eV cell) = 3.35
states/(eV Ba atom) = 0.64 states/(eV atom) (Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀). If we take our
corrected g_(n),corr for Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀ instead, the latter value is reduced
to (1 +_k_ep)_N_(E_(F)) = 63.9 states/(eV cell) = 2.66 states/(eV Ba
atom) = 0.51 states/(eV atom). The units per Ba atom and per atom allow
us to compare values for the two compounds: the density of states at the
Fermi level in Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀ is clearly lower than that in Ba₄Si₄₆, which
may already partly explain its lower transition temperature.

The normalized specific-heat jump in Ba₈Si₄₆ is D_C_/_g__Tc_ = 1.71,
which is in the medium-coupling regime, above the weak-coupling BCS
limit of 1.43. This supports estimates of 0.8 <_k_-ph_< 1.2 found in the
literature. [11, 19, 26] Band-structure calculations show a pronounced
peak at E_(F) with a maximum of either 43 states/(eV cell) (Refs. [18]
and [37]) or 38 states/(eV cell). [25] In Ref. [18], E_(F) is located at
the peak, while in Ref. [37] it is slightly above the peak. If we assume
1 +_k_-ph_= 2, our value of _N_(E_(F)) = 26.25 states/(eV cell) [which
is even smaller than the value _N_(E_(F)) = 31 states/(eV cell) of
Tanigaki _et al._[19]] supports the scenario of Moriguchi _et al._, [37]
in which the peak is located slightly below E_(F). For Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀ a value
as small as D_C_/_g__Tc_ = 1.1 is found, which is below the
weak-coupling BCS limit. This value may be underestimated due to the
presence of a possible residual g_(n) component, as we discussed
earlier. Zerce _et al._[38] reported based on band-structure
calculations that _N_(E_(F)) ≈ 60 states/(eV cell). If we compare this
with our value of (1 +_k_ep)_N_(E_(F)) = 80.4 states/(eV cell)
[corrected value: 63.9 states/(eV cell)], we find room only for a small
renormalization factor 1 +_k_ep = 1.34 (1.1), indicative of weak
coupling. Table 1 gives an overview of the superconducting properties of
Ba₈Si₄₆ and Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀.

IV Lattice specific heat and phonon density of states in comparison with
microscopic dynamics and scattering experiments

The specific heats in the normal state of both Ba₈Si₄₆ and Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀
show a rather unusual temperature dependence at low temperatures (Fig.
4). The _T_³ regime of the lattice specific heat does not extend beyond
a few Kelvins, as shown by the rapid increase in the specific heat at
low temperatures in Fig. 1. This indicates the presence of peaks in the
phonon density of states (PDOS) at low energies. To understand the
origin of superconductivity and the difference in T_(c) between the two
compounds, it is instructive to investigate the PDOS in detail. We use
several different methods: a deconvolution of the normal-state
specific-heat data into a set of Einstein modes, [2, 3] INS, and IXS.
Although the specific heat only provides a very limited energy
resolution for the PDOS, this approach is useful for a later comparison
with a similar deconvolution method in order to obtain the
electron-phonon coupling constant from the resistivity and the Gruneisen
parameter from the thermal expansion.

The specific-heat data at high temperature are sufficiently minimally
scattered to attempt a deconvolution of _C_ph(_T_) to extract the PDOS
_F_(_o_). A simplified method consists of representing _F_(_o_) by a
basis of Einstein modes with constant spacing on a logarithmic frequency
axis as follows:

F(ω) = ∑_(k)F_(k)δ(ω − ω_(k)).

The corresponding lattice specific heat is given by

$$C_{\rm ph}(T)=3N_{\rm A}\times k_{\rm B}\sum_{k}F_{k}\frac{x_{k}^{2}e^{x_{k}}} {(e^{x_{k}}-1)^{2}},$$
where x_(k)= ω_(k)/T. The weights F_(k) are found by a least-squares fit
of the lattice specific heat. The number of modes is chosen to be small
enough to ensure the stability of the solution. Note that we do not try
to find the energy of each mode; we rather aim to establish a histogram
of the density in pre-defined frequency bins. The robustness of the fit
is demonstrated by the rms deviation: <0.6

Figure 4 illustrates the decomposition of the lattice specific heat into
Einstein contributions. The PDOS obtained in this way is shown in Fig.
5. Several strong peaks at ∼7, ∼17, and ∼42 meV are found. For Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀
an additional peak appears at low energy at ∼3 meV.

Although specific heat, used here as a "thermal spectroscopy," has a
limited energy resolution only, it is sufficient to resolve the main
peaks in the PDOS. However, care must be taken that the phonon modes do
not shift significantly over the measured temperature range and we will
show in the following that this assumption is justified. An advantage of
the PDOS obtained from the specific heat by this fitting procedure is
that the absolute values of the mode amplitudes may be determined in
certain cases. This is due to the constraint that the sum over all
Einstein components has to approach the value 3R at high temperatures
(where R is the universal gas constant).

In order to clarify the origin of the peaks and justify our
specific-heat approach, a comparison with standard determinations of the
PDOS is instructive. The spectral distribution function F(ω) can be
extracted from INS and IXS experiments. In principle, both scattering
techniques sample the scattering function S(Q, ω) reflecting the spatial
and temporal correlation of atoms in a material.[31, 39] Their space and
time resolutions accurately match interatomic distances and vibrational
dynamics, respectively. Thermal and cold neutrons are the best suitable
experimental tools to illuminate the response of F(ω) to temperature
changes with an accuracy of only a few 100 μeV, i.e., a few Kelvins. The
INS experiments have been performed at the spectrometers IN4 and IN5 at
the Institut Laue-Langevin in Grenoble, France. Experimental details can
be obtained from Ref. [40]. In addition, x rays can be utilized in a
complementary fashion to probe the partial distribution of modes
associated with the either the barium vibrations or the silicon
dynamics. IXS experiments have been performed at the ID28 beamline of
the European Synchrotron Radiation Facility in Grenoble, France. An
energy resolution of 3 meV (full width at half maximum) and ambient
temperature conditions were sufficient to extract the required
information.

The complementarity of the two techniques results from the different
coupling mechanisms of the two probes (neutrons and x rays) with the
sample material. The scattering probability of x rays by the electronic
shell of the sample constituents is Q dependent and at low Q is simply
proportional to Z², the atomic number of the scatterer squared. It is
therefore strongly barium biased. Neutrons are scattered from nuclei
with a Fermi pseudopotential governing the interaction strength. Table 2
indicates the relative coupling strengths of neutrons and x rays in the
sample constituent elements. As far as translational dynamics is
concerned, the partial intensities are determined by the eigenmode
amplitudes and are hence proportional to 1/_M_, where M is the mass of
the scatterers. The resulting effective scattering intensities of the
different elements are also indicated in

l c c c c & Ba₈Si₄₆ & Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀ & Literature: Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀ & Literature:
Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀
T_(c) (K) & 8.1 & 1.55 & 8.07a & 1.4b 1.55c
γ_(n) (mJ/mole K2) & 123.7 & 189.7 & 144a & 182b
& (γ_(n, res) corrected: 158.7) & & & &
ΔC/T_(c) (mJ/mole K2) & 211.5 & 208.7 & 218.9a & 260.3b
ΔC/γ_(n)T_(c) & 1.71 & 1.1 & 1.52a & 1.43b
& (γ_(n, res) corrected: 1.43) & & & (γ_(n, res) corrected)
2Δ₀/k_(B)T_(c) & Δ_(0, 1)=1.3 & 3 & 3.6a & 3.5b
& Δ_(0, 2)=4.4 & (γ_(n, res) corrected: 3.4) & Δ_(0, min): 1.3,
Δ_(0, max): 4.4d
H_(c2) (T) & 5.75 & 0.35 & 5.5e & 0.35,c 0.2d
H_(c) (mT) & 23 & 2.8 & & &
E_(c) (J/mole) & 2.17 & 0.60 & & &
(1 + λ_(c, ph))N(E_(F)) & 52.4 & 80.4 & (1 + λ_(c, ph)) × 31, a
(1 + λ_(c, ph)) × 43, g & (1 + λ_(c, ph)) × 60 (eV cell)−1 & (γ_(n, res)
corrected: 63.9) & (1 + λ_(c, ph)) × 38, h (1+_c,), &
(1 + λ_(c, ph)) × 5.38, g & (1 + λ_(c, ph)) × 5.38, g &
(1 + λ_(c, ph)) × 2.5
(1 + λ_(c, ph)) × 2.5 (eV Ba atom)−1 & & (γ_(n, res) corrected: 2.66) &
(1 + λ_(c, ph)) × 4.75 h & & &

Table 1: Superconducting parameters of Ba₈Si₄₆ and Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀. The
superconducting condensation energy E_(c) and the thermodynamic critical
field H_(c) were obtained by numerically integrating the superconducting
contribution to C and C/T. In the case of Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀, the BCS fit shown
in Fig. 3(b) was used to extrapolate the data to zero temperature. The
last two columns contain examples from the literature for comparison.
See text for details.

Table 2. Consequently, and without taking the stoichiometry of the
compounds into account, we may state that INS is roughly three times
more sensitive to silicon modes than to barium modes and IXS is around
three times more sensitive to barium modes than to silicon modes.

However, since we have been dealing with purely or predominantly
coherent scatterers for x rays and neutrons, respectively, our
interpretation of the data is influenced by the experimentally
accessible momentum range Q and the cross-correlation terms between
barium and silicon. Our data permit us to calculate the generalized
density of states G(ω), which accurately represents the positions of
characteristic modes, but yields a less precise estimate of the partial
intensity distribution of the eigenmodes.[31, 41]

Figure 6 displays the G(ω) of Ba₈Si₄₆ studied by INS and IXS and a
Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀ sample measured by INS. From the relative intensity difference
between the INS and IXS signals, we may conclude that the barium
eigenmodes in Ba₈Si₄₆ are located at energies below 25 meV. In
particular the peak in the range of 6-10 meV shows a substantial
intensity change upon changing from x rays to neutrons, indicating a
majority contribution from barium vibrations. This observation is in
good agreement with previous INS measurements coupled to x-ray
absorption spectroscopy measurements and _ab initio_ calculations[42] as
well as Raman

  --------- ------ --------- ------- ------ ---------
  Element     Z²    σ^(x)/b   M/amu   Z²/M   σ^(x/)M
  Si         196      2.2     28.1    7.0     0.078
  Ba         3136     3.4     137.3   22.8    0.025
  --------- ------ --------- ------- ------ ---------

Table 2: Scattering probabilities and proportionality factors for x rays
and neutrons in Ba and Si atoms.

Figure 4: (Color online) Lattice specific heat divided by temperature of
Ba₈Si₄₆ (a) and Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀ (b) showing the decomposition into Einstein
terms. The labels k correspond to Einstein temperatures θ_(E, k)=82 K ×
1.56^(k), i.e., (from left to right) 9, 14, 22, 24, 53, 128, 200, 311,
486, and 758 K.

Figure 5: Phonon density of states F(ω) deconvolved from the specific
heat for Ba₈Si₄₆ and Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀ on a logarithmic energy scale. Fits are
performed with δ-functions F_(k)δ(ω − ω₀) on a basis of Einstein
frequencies ω_(k + 1)=1.56ω_(k) (see Fig. 4). In order to reflect the
spectral density, the δ functions of the PDOS are represented by a
histogram of width Δω_(k)= 1.56^(1/2)ω_(k)=ω_(k)/1.56^(1/2) and height
F_(k)/Δω_(k).

Figure 6: (Color online) Left: Generalized density of states G(ω) of
Ba₈Si₄₆ as obtained by INS (red) and IXS (blue). Right: G(ω) of
Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀ measured by INS on a linear temperature scale. All data sets
are normalized to the same integral intensity in the energy range of
2–85 meV. For presentation reasons, IXS data have been divided by 3.25,
corresponding to the effective intensity ratio of the barium and silicon
inelastic responses. The PDOS (normalized) as obtained from the specific
heat is added as a bar graph (see Fig. 5).

scattering and lattice dynamics results.[26] Considering whether a
significant contribution from barium can also be found beyond the first
strong peak, i.e., above 12 meV, we examine the effective number of
modes in the INS and IXS experiments for the two separate intensity
bands below and above 12 meV. This calculation overestimates the
experimentally determined intensity of the high-energy band by a factor
of 2 when compared with the model’s results. Taking account of the
perturbations by monitoring the generalized density of states, we may
conclude that a definite barium contribution has to be taken into
account at energies above 12 meV. The second distinct peak in the IXS
data at 15 meV (which is also visible as a shoulder in the INS spectra)
arises from hybridized Ba-Si modes. Furthermore, the maximum in the INS
data can be attributed to silicon modes as it is supported by
Raman-scattering results.[26] This is also the case for the peak at 45
meV. A weak feature in the IXS data (not shown here) around 55 meV
resembles results from lattice dynamics and Raman experiments; however,
it cannot be confirmed within the INS experiments.[40]

In the case of Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀, the INS measurement reveals a remarkably
textured low-energy density of states, a feature which is corroborated
by lattice dynamics calculations.[27] When following the effective mode
argument outlined above, the experimentally determined intensities match
the hypothetically expected intensities rather well. For Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀ the
barium modes appear to be concentrated below 12 meV, in good agreement
with the lattice dynamics results. This agreement also applies for the
uniform distribution of silicon modes at higher energies and the very
low-energy barium mode around 2.5 meV, whose presence has been confirmed
with a high-resolution experiment at INS.[40]

Figure 7 reports the temperature dependence of the clathrate samples
measured by INS. The experimental data are presented as the generalized
susceptibility, whose profile is independent of the temperature for a
harmonic system since it has been corrected for the thermal occupancy of
the vibrational modes. This presentation is favorable for stressing
low-energy features, i.e., the regime in which the barium contribution
dominates. For consistency with the energy scale of the generalized
density of states, the anti-Stokes line (energy gain of the neutrons) is
plotted on the positive scale.

Within the accuracy of the experimental approach and the temperature
ranges studied, we cannot identify significant changes in the spectral
distributions of the two samples. The positions of distinct modes are
unaltered upon temperature changes. Although subtle variations in the
spectral intensity can be observed, their origin cannot be assigned to
unequivocal changes in the sample signal. The rather weak scattering
power of the barium modes in the INS experiments countermeasures the
advantage of the excellent energy resolution at the lowest temperatures,
at which background signal corrections become increasingly important.
Nevertheless, the important point to be stressed is that the present
data enable us to conclude that a temperature-independent distribution
of vibrational eigenmodes is an appropriate approximation within the
studied temperature range of 2-300 K. This is an important result as a
strong temperature dependence would invalidate our modeling of the PDOS
from the specific heat, which probes the phonon energy scale as a
function of temperature.

The question arises as to what extent the peaks in the PDOS contribute
to the electron-phonon coupling. This point is addressed in Sec. V, by
using the sample electrical resistivity as an experimental probe.

## V. Resistivity and Electron-Phonon Coupling

The brittleness and polycrystallinity of our samples poses in general an
obstacle for the determination of the resistivity on an absolute scale.
Not only is an excess value observed in polycrystalline samples compared
to the bulk properties, but a variation can also be seen depending on
the consistency of the sample material. We therefore do not attempt to
extract any information from the absolute value of the resistivity, but
focus on its temperature dependence, which shows a characteristic form
reproduced in all our samples over an extensive series of measurements.
We analyze the resistivity (Fig. 8) in a similar way as done for the
specific heat. We start from the generalized Bloch-Gruneisen formula
(see, e.g., Ref. [43], in particular pp. 212 and 219),

$$\rho_{\rm BG}(T)=\rho(0)+\frac{4\pi m^{*}}{ne^{2}}\int_{0}^{\omega_{\rm max}}\alpha_{\rm F}^{2}F(\omega)\frac{xe^{x}}{(e^{x}-1)^{2}}d\omega,$$
(3)

where x ≡ ω/T and $\alpha_{\rm F}^{2}F(\omega)$ is the electron-phonon
"transport coupling function." In the restricted Bloch-Gruneisen
approach, one would have
$\alpha_{\rm F}^{2}F(\omega)\!\propto\!\omega^{4}$ and as a consequence
$\rho_{\rm BG}(T)\!-\!\rho(0)\!\propto\!T^{5}$, but deviations from the
Debye model, complications with phonon polarizations, and umklapp
processes would not justify this simplification beyond the
low-temperature continuum limit, i.e., only a few Kelvins in this case.
Using a decomposition into a basis of Einstein modes similar to Eq. (1),

$$\alpha_{\rm u}^{2}F(\omega)=\frac{1}{2}\sum_{k}\lambda_{\rm u,k}\omega_{k} \delta(\omega-\omega_{k}),$$
(4)

we obtain the discrete version of Eq. (3),

$$\rho_{\rm BG}(T)=\rho(0)+\frac{2\pi}{e_{0}\Omega_{p}^{2}}\sum_{k}\lambda_{\rm u ,k}\omega_{k}\frac{x_{k}e^{x_{k}}}{(e^{x_{k}}-1)^{2}},$$
(5 tivities ρ(0)=0.68 Ω cm (Ba₈Si₄₆) and ρ(0)=24.4 Ω cm (Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀) are
determined separately. Ω_(p)=(ne²/z₀m^(*))^(1/2) is the unscreened
plasma frequency. The negative curvature of the resistivity of Ba₈Si₄₆
at high temperature, a rather general phenomenon possibly related to the
Mott limit,[44, 45] is taken into account by the empirical "parallel
resistor" formula,[46]

$$\frac{1}{\rho(T)}=\frac{1}{\rho_{\rm BG}(T)+\rho(0)}+\frac{1}{\rho_{\rm max}}.$$
(6)

The parameters $\rho_{\rm max}$=1.06 Ω cm (Ba₈Si₄₆) and 103.6 Ω cm
(Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀) are fitted simultaneously with the parameters
$\lambda_{\rm w,k}$. The results of the fits are shown in Fig. 9 as
$\alpha_{\rm w}^{2}F(\omega)$ in comparison with the phonon density of
states F(ω) as obtained from specific heat. The deconvolution of the
resistivity yields a good reproduction of all the phonon peaks obtained
from the deconvolution of the specific heat. Essentially, two modes at 7
and 17 meV are found for Ba₈Si₄₆, which represent the two peaks at lower
energy in the PDOS. For Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀ all the peaks in the PDOS are
reproduced. The strongest peak of the low-energy modes appears at the
additional peak in the PDOS at 3 meV, which was confirmed by the
high-resolution INS experiment at 2.5 meV. Due to the pronounced convex
behavior in this compound, we limited the fitting interval to 200 K.
Otherwise, a huge peak appears at 42 meV, which is an artifact due to
the parallel resistor model. This does not, however, affect the modes at
lower energies.

The electron-phonon coupling parameter relevant for transport
$\lambda_{\rm w}$=2$\int\omega^{-1}\alpha_{\rm w}^{2}F(\omega)$ is
related to the fitting parameters $\lambda_{\rm w,k}$ by
$\lambda_{\rm w}$=$\sum_{k}\lambda_{\rm w,k}$. Due to the
polycrystalline nature of our samples, we have no access to the absolute
values of the resistivity. We are therefore unable to extract this value
and use only the relative weights $\lambda_{\rm w,k}$ in arbitrary units
as a measure of the electron-phonon coupling strength.

When compared with thermodynamic data, the analysis of the DC
conductivity leads to the conclusion that different phonon modes (or
narrow groups of modes) are responsible for the superconductivity in
Ba₈Si₄₆ and Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀. In Fig. 9(c) we extract $\alpha_{\rm w}^{2}$ by
dividing the spectrum obtained from the resistivity by F(ω). This graph
clearly shows that the main contribution to the electron-phonon coupling
in

Figure 9: (Color online) Electron-phonon transport coupling function
$\alpha_{\rm w}^{2}F(\omega)$ (closed squares) deconvolved from the
resistivity in comparison with the phonon density of states F(ω)
deconvolved from the specific heat (histogram of rectangles) for Ba₈Si₄₆
(a) and Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀ (b). Fits are performed with δ functions
$(\alpha_{\rm w}^{2}F_{k})\delta(\omega$$-\omega_{\rm d})$ on a basis of
Einstein frequencies ω_(k + 1)=1.56ω_(k): $\alpha_{\rm w}^{2}$ for both
compounds (c).

Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀ arises from the low-energy mode in the PDOS at ∼3 meV (2.5 meV
from high-resolution INS). In Ba₂₄Si₄₆ the superconductivity is
essentially driven by the mode at ∼7 meV. This may partly explain the
lower T_(c) in Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀.

## VI VI. Thermal expansivity and anharmonicity

Thermal-expansion experiments were performed to give three types of
information: (i) confirmation of the main features of the PDOS, (ii)
evaluation of the volume dependence of the phonon modes and electronic
density of states, and (iii) determination of the variation of T_(c)
with pressure. Figure 10 shows the linear thermal-expansion coefficient
for Ba₂₄Si₄₆ and Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀. A drop occurs at T_(c) of Ba₂₄Si₁₆ (see
inset). The superconducting transition of Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀ is below the
low-temperature limit of our equipment.

The linear thermal expansivity α(T) for a cubic system is given by

$$\alpha(T)=\frac{1}{L}\left(\frac{\partial L}{\partial T}\right)_{p}=\frac{ \kappa_{T}}{3}\left(\frac{\partial S}{\partial V}\right)_{T},$$
(7)

where κ_(T) is the isothermal compressibility. The expansivity is
closely related to the specific heat at constant volume via the
Gruneisen parameters (see, e.g., Ref. [43]) as follows:

$$\alpha(T)=\frac{\kappa_{T}}{3V}(\gamma_{G,\rm e}C_{\rm e}+\gamma_{G,\rm ph}C_{ \rm ph}),$$
(8)

where the electronic Gruneisen parameter $\gamma_{G,\rm e}=\,$β ln
γ_(g)/∂ ln V provides a measure of the volume dependence of the
Sommerfeld constant and the phonon Gruneisen parameter
$\gamma_{G,\rm ph}=-\beta$ ln ω/∂ ln V represents the anharmonicity of
the lattice vibrations. In this simple form, we can make use of the
known electronic component $C_{\rm e}(T)$ of the specific heat in the
normal state and extract $\gamma_{G,\rm e}$ from a fit to the
normal-state expansivity curves α(T) at low temperature. As in the case
of the specific heat, a plot of α/T versus T² (inset of Fig. 10) is most
suitable for displaying the results. The data show a linear behavior
below 200 K², which we extrapolate to T=0 to estimate the electronic
component of the expansivity; $\alpha_{\rm e}(T)/T$=−8.4 × 10⁻⁹ K⁻²
(Ba₂₄Si₄₆) and $\alpha_{\rm e}(T)/T$=+3.2 × 10⁻⁹ K⁻² (Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀). These
values are stable when the upper limit of the fit is varied between 100
and 200 K². Using the bulk modulus κ_(T)⁻¹=93 GPa of Ba₈Si₄₆ (Ref. [47])
and κ_(T)⁻¹=90 GPa of Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀ (Ref. [48]) allows us to calculate
$\gamma_{G,\rm e}=-12.6$ (Ba₈Si₄₆) and $\gamma_{G,\rm e}=+7.6$
(Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀).

When calculating the phonon Gruneisen parameter $\gamma_{G,\rm ph}$ = −β
ln ω/∂ ln V, we must take its frequency dependence into account. Modes
which are characterized by a large $\gamma_{G,\rm ph}(\omega)$ are more
heavily weighted in the thermal expansion than in the specific heat.
This is exemplified by the expansivity data shown in Fig. 10. The
expansivity of Ba₂₄Si₄₆ shows a stronger increase than that of Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀
at low temperatures, which is evidence for a larger volume dependence in
some low-frequency modes. In order to evaluate the energy of these modes
and compare the two different clathrate compounds, we fit the phonon
expansivity over the full temperature range in a similar manner done for
the resistivity and the specific heat, using the same set of Einstein
frequencies (Fig. 11). Equation (9) below, similar to Eqs. (2) and (3),
allows the parameters $\gamma_{G,\rm e}F_{k}$ to be extracted for each
frequency ω_(k):

$$\alpha_{\rm ph}(T)=\alpha(T)-\alpha_{\rm el}(T)=\frac{N_{\rm A}\chi_{k}R_{K} \gamma_{K}}{V}{\sum_{k}}\ \gamma_{G,k}F_{k}\frac{x_{k}^{2}e^{x_{k}}}{(e^{x_{k}}-1)^{2}}.$$
(9)

The spectral anharmonicity function, which we define as the PDOS
weighted by the frequency-dependent Gruneisen parameter,
$\gamma_{G,\rm ph}(\omega)F(\omega)$, is represented in Figs. 12(a) and
12(b) together with the PDOS obtained from the specific heat. The
extracted values of frequency-dependent Gruneisen parameter
$\gamma_{G,\rm ph}(\omega)$ are plotted in Fig. 12(c). For Ba₈Si₄₆ the
modes below 10 meV are heavily weighted, with γ_(G, k) reaching values
of up to 8.6. Higher-energy modes are much less anharmonic, with
$\gamma_{G,\rm k}$ values below 2. This is in reasonable agreement with
what is found by Raman spectroscopy under pressure.[49] Anharmonicity
does not play an important role in Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀: the spectral anharmonicity
function displays similar peaks to the PDOS from the specific heat and
shows only γ_(G, k) values below 2.

Is this anharmonicity of the low-energy modes in Ba₈Si₄₆ in
contradiction to our observation that the INS spectrum is temperature
independent between 2 and 300 K² If we use the relation
$\gamma_{G,\rm ph}$=−β ln ω/∂ ln V to estimate the shift of the phonon
frequency from the measured expansion value ΔV/V=7.2 × 10⁻³ between 0
and 300 K, we find that the 7 meV mode is shifted by only 0.25 K. This
is beyond the resolution of the INS experiment.

The pressure dependence of T_(c) for Ba₈Si₄₆ is obtained from the
Ehrenfest relation

$$\Delta\alpha=\frac{1}{3V}\frac{\Delta C}{T_{c}}\left(\frac{\partial T_{c}}{ \partial p}\right)_{T},$$
(10)

where Δα and ΔC represent the discontinuities in α and C at the
second-order transition. The experimentally determined

Figure 10: (Color online) Thermal expansivity α=1/L dL/dT of Ba₂₄Si₄₆
and Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀. Inset: Thermal expansivity α/T versus T² at low
temperature for Ba₈Si₄₆ and Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀. The straight lines are fits to
extract the volume dependence of the Sommerfeld constant (see text for
details).

step Δα=−(1.1 ± 0.2) × 10⁻⁷ K⁻¹ (Fig. 10) corresponds to −1.0 ± 0.2
K/GPa for the initial pressure dependence of T_(c). This value is in
agreement with resistivity data under pressure.[18] Again assuming
κ_(T)⁻¹=93 GPa, we obtain the fractional volume dependence of the
critical temperature ∂ln  T_(c)∂ln  V=11 ± 2. The fractional volume
dependences of the critical temperature and Sommerfeld constant of
Ba₈Si₄₆ are unusually large: 11 and −12.6, respectively.

## VII Discussion and Conclusions

The low-temperature specific heats of Ba₈Si₄₆ and Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀ have already
been studied in previous publications.[12; 19] Although small deviations
are found, the superconducting parameters are more or less reproduced in
the present work. However, a closer examination of the zero-field
Ba₈Si₄₆ data reveals some excess specific heat which we could accurately
fit using a two-gap BCS model. Similar low-energy excitations are also
indicated in the STS spectrum of Ichimura _et al.[34]_ It would be
instructive to see whether their data can also be fitted by a two-gap
model instead of the anisotropic gap scenario, which the authors
suggested. The low-temperature specific heat already provides two
explanations for the higher T_(c) in Ba₈Si₄₆: in the case of MgB₂ it has
been shown that the presence of a second gap is crucial to explain its
high T_(c) of 40 K.[30] In Ba₈Si₄₆, such a second gap may help to
enhance T_(c) somewhat. However, the small weight of the second gap in
the fit of only 10

Regarding superconductors which are based on structures with ions in
oversized crystalline cages, it appears that in many cases
superconductivity is mediated by the phonon associated with the
vibration of the encaged ion.[2; 3; 4; 30] This was also proposed by Tse
_et al.[27]_ through _ab initio_ calculations for the clathrate systems
studied here. To test this scenario in the case of the clathrates, we
first determined the PDOS by different methods: a deconvolution of the
lattice specific heat and inelastic neutron and inelastic x-ray
scattering. While in the present case the specific heat apparently
provides a good

Figure 11: (Color online) Lattice thermal expansivity divided by
temperature for Ba₈Si₄₆ (a) and Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀ (b) showing the decomposition
into Einstein terms. The labels k correspond to Einstein temperatures
θ_(E_(x))=82 K×1.56^(k), i.e., (from left to right) 9, 14, 22, 24, 53,
128, 200, 311, 486, and 758 K.

Figure 12: (Color online) Spectral anharmonicity function
γ_(G)(ω)F(ω)=−(∂ln  ω/∂ln  V)F(ω) (closed squares) deconvolved from the
thermal expansivity in comparison to the phonon density of states F(ω)
deconvolved from the specific heat (histogram) for Ba₈Si₄₆ (a) and
Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀ (b). Fits are performed with δ-functions (γ_(G)F)₄(ω=ω_(E)) on
the basis of Einstein frequencies ω_(E_(x) + 1)=1.56ω_(E). Frequency
dependence of the phonon Grünéisen parameter $\gamma_{G,\rm ph}(\omega)$
(c).

approximation to the sample PDOS in absolute values (although with a
limited energy resolution), the different scattering cross sections of
the Ba and Si atoms influence the spectra from INS and IXS. Basically,
two low-energy peaks may be extracted from the specific-heat PDOS for
Ba₈Si₄₆ at 7 and 17 meV and an additional peak at 3 meV for Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀.

The INS and IXS experiments help us to interpret the nature of the peaks
in the PDOS. The spectrum of Ba₈Si₄₆ below 25 meV is dominated by barium
vibrations, which are responsible for the rapid upturn of the specific
heat at low temperature. The peak in the 6-10 meV range can clearly be
identified as due to barium vibrations. However, the second peak
extracted from the deconvolution of the specific heat around 17 meV is
formed by a distinct barium contribution at energies above 12 meV and
hybridized Ba-Si modes at slightly higher energies. At even higher
energies, the spectrum is dominated by silicon modes. For Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀, the
barium modes appear to be concentrated below 12 meV. An additional
barium mode appears around 2.5 meV. The latter is responsible for the
peak in the specific-heat PDOS around ∼3 meV and is related to the
barium vibration in the additional large pseudocubic Si₅ cages. Due to
this mode, at particularly low energy the upturn in the low-temperature
specific heat is even more pronounced than in Ba₈Si₄₆.

Using electrical resistivity as an experimental probe to obtain the
electron-phonon coupling function from a deconvolution of the data into
a set of Bloch-Gruneisen modes helps us to investigate which of the
peaks in the PDOS are related to a strong electron-phonon interaction
and thus are mainly responsible for the superconductivity. Our analysis
shows that the principal coupling arises from the mode related to the 7
meV peak in the PDOS of Ba₈Si₄₆ associated with the BaSi₂₄ nanocage [42]
and the 3 meV (2.5 from INS) mode in Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀. Assuming that T_(c)
scales linearly with phonon energy, this difference already explains an
increase in T_(c) by a factor of 2-3 in Ba₈Si₄₆. The remaining
difference may be partly provided by the larger density of states in
Ba₈Si₄₆ and the presence of the second superconducting gap, as well as
some differences in the host-lattice cohesive energy [11]. The
polycrystalline sample does not allow us to extract an absolute value
for the electron-phonon coupling function. However, we know from the
low-temperature specific heat (Sec. III) that the coupling strength is
clearly larger in Ba₈Si₄₆. From the Sommerfeld constant we obtain values
of λ_(e-ph)=0.6−0.85 (compare Table 1) for Ba₈Si₄₆ and λ_(ep) =0.1−0.34
for Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀. Using Carbotte’s relation [50] for strong-coupling
superconductors between the normalized specific-heat jump
ΔC(T_(c))/γ_(n)T_(c) and the logarithmic averaged phonon frequency
ω_(ln), we obtain

$$\frac{\Delta C}{\gamma T_{c}}=1.43\left[1+53\left(\frac{T_{c}}{\omega_{\text{ ln}}}\right)^{2}\ln\left(\frac{\omega_{\text{ln}}}{3T_{c}}\right)\right].$$
(11)

In the same reference [50], the modified McMillian formula then provides
the electron-phonon coupling parameter

$$\begin{split}\lambda_{\text{e-ph}}&=[1.04+\mu^{ \star}\ln(\omega_{\text{ln}}/1.2T_{c})]\{(1-0.62\mu^{\star})\ln(\omega_{\text{ ln}}/1.2T_{c})\\ &\quad-1.04\},\end{split}$$
(12)

and we obtain another estimate of λ_(e-ph)=0.76 for Ba₈Si₄₆ (ω_(ln)=191
K, assuming that the retarded Coulomb repulsion parameter μ^(⋆)≅ 0.1),
which agrees well with the previous estimate. The latter method fails
for the weak-coupling superconductor Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀. This may furthermore be
indirectly reflected in the thermal-expansion data: the low-energy modes
below 10 meV in Ba₈Si₄₆ show a significant anharmonicity with large mode
Gruneisen parameters of up to ∼9. This anharmonicity of the low-energy
modes is clearly absent in Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀, with all mode Gruneisen parameters
of ∼2. Modes which show a strong electron-phonon coupling often show an
enhancement of their mode Gruneisen parameter [2, 3]. Hence, it may also
indicate a smaller electron-phonon coupling in Ba₂₄Si₁₀₀, which explains
the remaining difference in the T_(c) values of both compounds.

The final question is whether the T_(c) of Ba₈Si₄₆ could be raised
further. Several factors are of importance in such materials based on
ions enclosed in oversized crystalline cages: both the cage size and the
mass of the enclosed ion have an influence on the phonon frequency,
which provides most of the electron-phonon coupling and is thus mainly
responsible for T_(c). However, at the same time the "volume filling
factor" is changed, which means the ratio between the volumes the Ba
atoms occupy to that of the entire cage. This directly influences the
hybridization of Ba 5p/5d orbitals with dodecahedra Si20 cluster
orbitals. This factor has been suggested to be of particular importance
to explain the high T_(c) value of Ba₈Si₄₆[19]. The latter may be a
crucial factor for the electron-phonon coupling strength. Applying
pressure appears to be a good test to see whether T_(c) could be raised
further since it reduces both the volume filling factor of the cage and
the cage size. The smaller cage size increases the phonon frequency of
the encaged ion and thus directly enhances T_(c). Unfortunately, the
cell parameter reduction due to pressure application also leads to an
electronic band enlargement and consequently a reduction in the density
of states at the Fermi level, which seems to be the dominant factor
controlling T_(c), thus leading to the measured reduction in T_(c) with
pressure [18]. However, the thermal expansivity at T_(c) in combination
with specific heat provides an answer without applying any pressure. The
Ehrenfest relation which incorporates the jump at T_(c) of both
quantities [Eq. (10)] tells us that the initial pressure dependence of
T_(c) is negative and T_(c) may thus be enhanced by increasing the cell
volume. Possibilities for improvement of the T_(c) values could then
arise from the modification of the host-lattice properties: carbon
appears then to be a good candidate for the host clathrate lattice as
discussed in Ref. [29]. This will lead to the question of determining
the appropriate guest atom for optimal electron-phonon coupling in the
currently hypothetical carbon clathrates under the constraints of the
reduced nanocage size.

###### Acknowledgements.

R.L. and Y.W. thank A. Junod for sharing his knowledge about calorimetry
and its analysis with them. This work was partially supported by the
National Science Foundation through the National Centre of Competence in
Research "Materials with Novel Electronic Properties-MaNEP." * (9)
Corresponding author. rolf.lortz@physics.unige.ch * (10) B. T. Matthias,
T. H. Geballe, K. Andres, E. Lorenzwitl, G. W. Hull, and J. P. Maita,
Science **159**, 530 (1968). * (11) R. Lortz, Y. Wang, S. Abe, C.
Meingast, Y. B. Paderno, V. Filippov, and A. Junod, Phys. Rev. B **72**,
024547 (2005). * (12) R. Lortz, Y. Wang, U. Tutsch, S. Abe, C. Meingast,
P. Popovitch, W. Knafo, N. Shitsevalova, Y. B. Paderno, and A. Junod,
Phys. Rev. B **73**, 024512 (2006). * (13) M. Bruhwiler, S. M. Kazakov,
N. D. Zhigadlo, J. Karpinski, and B. Batlogg, Phys. Rev. B **70**,
020503(R) (2004). * (14) Z. Hiroi, S. Yonezawa, Y. Nagao, and J.
Yamaura, Phys. Rev. B **76**, 014523 (2007). * (15) M. Potel, R.
Chevrel, M. Sergent, J. Armici, M. Decroux, and O. Fischer, J. Solid
State Chem. **35**, 286 (1980); A. P. Petrovic, R. Lortz, G. Santi, M.
Decroux, H. Monnard, O. Fischer, L. Boeri, O. Andersen, J. Kortus, D.
Salloum, P. Gougeon, and M. Potel (unpublished). * (16) J. Nagamatsu, N.
Nakagawa, T. Muranaka, Y. Zenitani, and J. Akimitsu, Nature (London)
**410**, 63 (2001). * (17) J. Akimitsu, in Symposium on Transition Metal
Oxides, Sendai, 2001 (unpublished). * (18) H. Kawaji, H. Horie, S.
Yamanaka, and M. Ishikawa, Phys. Rev. Lett. **74**, 1427 (1995). * (19)
S. Yamanaka, E. Enishi, H. Fukuoka, and M. Yasukawa, Inorg. Chem.
**39**, 56 (2000). * (20) R. Viennois, P. Toulemonde, C. Paulsen, and A.
San Miguel, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter **17**, L311 (2005). * (21) T.
Rachi, H. Yoshino, R. Kumashiro, M. Kitajima, K. Kobayashi, K. Yokogawa,
K. Murata, N. Kimura, H. Aoki, H. Fukuoka, S. Yamanaka, H. Shimotani, T.
Takenobu, Y. Iwasa, T. Sasaki, N. Kobayashi, Y. Miyazaki, K. Saito, F.
Guo, K. Kobayashi, K. Osaka, K. Kato, M. Takata, and K. Tanigaki, Phys.
Rev. B **72**, 144504 (2005). * (22) J. S. Kasper, P. Hagenmuller, M.
Pouchard, and C. Cros, Science **150**, 1713 (1965). * (23) C. Cros, M.
Pouchard, and P. Hagenmuller, J. Solid State Chem. **2**, 570 (1970). *
(24) H. Fukuoka, K. Ueno, and S. Yamanaka, J. Organomet. Chem. **611**,
543 (2000). * (25) E. A. Ekimov, V. A. Sidorov, E. D. Bauer, N. N.
Mel’nik, N. J. Curro, J. D. Thompson, and S. M. Stishov, Nature (London)
**428**, 542 (2004). * (26) E. Bustarret, C. Marcenat, P. Achatz, J.
Kamarik, F. Levy, A. Huxley, E. Bourgeois, X. Blase, and J. Boulmer,
Nature (London) **444**, 465 (2006). * (27) D. Connetable, V.
Timoshevskii, B. Masenelli, J. Beille, J. Marcus, B. Barbara, A. M.
Saitta, and G.-M. Rignanese, Phys. Rev. Lett. **91**, 247001 (2003). *
(28) K. Tanigaki, T. Shimizu, K. M. Itoh, J. Teraokai, Y. Moritomo, and
S. Yamanaka, Nat. Mater. **2**, 653 (2003). * (29) P. Toulemonde, Ch.
Adessi, X. Blase, A. San Miguel, and J. L. Tholence, Phys. Rev. B
**71**, 094504 (2005). * (30) P. Toulemonde, A. San Miguel, A. Merlen,
R. Viennois, S. Le Floch, Ch. Adessi, X. Blase, and J. L. Tholence, J.
Phys. Chem. Solids **67**, 1117 (2006). * (32) R. F. W. Herrmann, K.
Tanigaski, S. Kuroshima, and H. Suematsu, Chem. Phys. Lett. **283**, 29
(1998). * (33) H. Fukuoka, J. Kiyoto, and S. Yamanaka, J. Solid State
Chem. **175**, 237 (2003). * (34) N. Kamakura, T. Nakano, Y. Ikemoto, M.
Usuda, H. Fukuoka, S. Yamanaka, S. Shin, and K. Kobayashi, Phys. Rev. B
**72**, 014511 (2005). * (35) Yang Li, Ruihong Zhang, Yang Liu, Ning
Chen, Z. P. Luo, Xingqiao Ma, Guohui Cao, Z. S. Feng, Chia-Ren Hu, and
Joseph H. Ross, Jr., Phys. Rev. B **75**, 054513 (2007). * (36) J. S.
Tse, T. Iitaka, T. Kune, H. Shimizu, K. Parlinski, H. Fukuoka, and S.
Yamana, Phys. Rev. B **72**, 155441 (2005). * (37) J. S. Tse, T. Iitaka,
and K. Parlinski, Europhys. Lett. **75**, 153 (2006). * (38) I. Bat’ko,
M. Bat’kova, K. Flachbart, V. B. Filippov, Y. B. Paderno, N. Y.
Shicevalova, and T. Wagner, J. Alloys Compd. **217**, L1 (1995). * (39)
A. San Miguel and P. Toulemonde, High Press. Res. **25**, 159 (2005). *
(40) Y. Wang, T. Plackowski, and A. Junod, Physica C **355**, 179
(2001); F. Bouquet, Y. Wang, I. Sheikin, T. Plackowski, A. Junod, S.
Lee, and S. Tajima, Phys. Rev. Lett. **89**, 257001 (2002); F. Bouquet,
Y. Wang, R. A. Fisher, D. G. Hinks, J. D. Jorgensen, A. Junod, and N. E.
Phillips, Europhys. Lett. **56**, 856 (2001). * (41) G. L. Squires,
_Introduction to the Theory of Thermal Neutron Scattering_ (Dover,
Mineola, NY, 1996). * (42) N. R. Werthamer, E. Helfand, and P. C.
Hohenberg, Phys. Rev. **147**, 295 (1966). * (43) T. Rachi, R.
Kumashiro, H. Fukuoka, S. Yamanaka, and K. Tanigaki, Sci. Technol. Adv.
Mater. **7**, S88 (2006). * (44) K. Ichimura, K. Nomura, H. Fukuoka, and
S. Yamanaka, Physica C **388-389**, 577 (2003). * (45) V. Guritanu, W.
Goldacker, F. Bouquet, Y. Wang, R. Lortz, G. Goll, and A. Junod, Phys.
Rev. B **70**, 184526 (2004). * (46) A. P. Petrovic (private
communication). * (47) K. Moriguchi, M. Yonemura, A. Shintani, and S.
Yamanaka, Phys. Rev. B **61**, 9859 (2000). * (48) I. Zerec, A. Yaresko,
P. Thalmeier, and Y. Grin, Phys. Rev. B **66**, 045115 (2002). * (49) M.
Krisch and F. Sette, _Light Scattering in Solids, Novel Materials and
Techniques_, Topics in Applied Physics No. 108 (Springer-Verlag, Berlin,
2007). * (50) R. Viennois, P. Toulemonde, M. Koza, H. Mutka, A. San
Miguel, and R. Lortz, J. Phys.: Conf. Ser. **92**, 012121 (2007). * (51)
A. Bossak and M. Krisch, Phys. Rev. B **72**, 224305 (2005). * (52) E.
Reny, A. San Miguel, Y. Guyot, B. Masenelli, P. Melinon, L. Saviot, S.
Yamanaka, B. Champagnon, C. Cros, M. Pouchard, M. Borowski, and A. J.
Dianoux, Phys. Rev. B **66**, 014532 (2002). * (53) G. Grimvall, _The
Electron-Phonon Interaction in Metals_ (North-Holland, Amsterdam,
1981). * (54) N. F. Mott, Adv. Phys. **16**, 49 (1967). * (55) N. F.
Mott, Rev. Mod. Phys. **50**, 203 (1978). * (56) H. Wiesmann, M.
Gurvitch, H. Lutz, A. Ghosh, B. Schwarz, M. Strongin, P. B. Allen, and
J. W. Halley, Phys. Rev. Lett. **38**, 782 (1977). * (57) A. San-Miguel,
P. Melinon, D. Connetable, X. Blase, F. Tournus, E. Reny, S. Yamanaka,
and J. P. Itie, Phys. Rev. B **65**, 054109 (2002). * (58) P.
Toulemonde, D. Machon, and A. San Miguel (unpublished). * (59) T. Kume,
H. Fukuoka, T. Koda, S. Sasaki, H. Shimizu, and S. Yamanaka, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **90**, 155503 (2003). * (60) J. P. Carbotte, Rev. Mod. Phys.
**62**, 1027 (1990).
