# Magnetic-field dependence of the low-temperature specific heat of
La2-Sr2CuO4

S. J. Chen, C. F. Chang, H. L. Tsay, and H. D. Yang

Department of Physics, National Sun Yat-Sen University, Kaohsiung 804,
Taiwan, Republic of China

J.-Y. Lin*

Institute of Physics, National Chiao Tung University, Hsinchu 300,
Taiwan, Republic of China

25 June 1998

###### Abstract

Recently, possible evidence from the low-temperature specific heat
(LTSH) for the lines of nodes in the superconducting order parameter of
cuprate superconductors has attracted much attention and is still
debated. To clarify this issue and to cover the studies in different
carrier doping regimes, we have measured LTSH of La2-Sr2CuO4 (_x_ =
0.10, 0.16, and 0.22) both in zero and applied magnetic fields. In all
doping regimes, it is found that the increase in the linear-_T_
coefficient g is proportional to H1/2, consistent with _d_-wave
superconductivity. The data shows clear evidence for an _aT_2 term at
zero magnetic field in LTSH of La1.78Sr20.2CuO4+ Furthermore, our
results are compared with the recently proposed scaling theory.
[S0163-1829(98)50246-9]

After many efforts made to clarify the pairing symmetry in
high-temperature superconductors (HTSC’s), a growing consensus has
emerged in recent years that the symmetry of hole-doped HTSC’s is d
wave.1 One of the key experiments which helped to establish this
consensus is the low-temperature specific heat (LTSH). In _d_-wave
superconducting, at zero magnetic field H = 0, the electronic specific
heat C_(c) is proportional to T2 rather than exp (−Δ/T) as in
conventional _s_-wave superconductors, where D is the superconducting
gap. In magnetic fields, C_(c) = _g_(_H_)_T_ at low temperatures with g
proportional to H1/2, as first proposed by Volovik2 and later by
others.3 Several papers4-8 on LTSH _C_(_T_,_H_) of YBa2Cu3O7- (YBCO)
have reported experimental results which in general agree with the
_d_-wave predictions, however with controversies on the existence of the
T2 term at H = 0. All LTSH experiments on YBCO investigated only the
optimally doped and slightly overdoped samples. On the other hand, LTSH
of La2-Sr2CuO4 (LSCO) at H = 0 was measured and an obvious T2 term has
been identified.9,10 Besides cuprates, studies on _C_(_T_,_H_) of other
possibly unconventional superconductors were reported.11,12 In order to
extend the test of the _d_-wave model to different doping regimes, we
have measured LTSH of La2-_x_Sr2CuO4 for x = 0.10 to 0.22 both in zero
and applied magnetic fields. In addition, it was pointed out that the
H1/2 dependence in g(_H_) might be a general phenomenon due to flux-line
interactions near _H_c_.1,13 Since LSCO possesses smaller thermodynamics
critical fields than YBCO, LTSH experiments on LSCO may be elucidating
to this question. Our results show that the change of g(_H_) can be well
described by Volovik’s predictions in all doping regimes. Furthermore,
the data reveal convincing evidence of both C_(c) = _aT_2 at H = 0 and
C_(c) = _aH_1/2.5T at H 0 in the same sample, where a and A are
constants. Comparison of our results with the recent scaling theory14,15
is also presented.

Polycrystalline samples of La2-_x_Sr2CuO4 with x = 0.10 to 0.22 were
carefully prepared from La2O3, SrCO3, and CuO powder of 99.999

Footnote 1: The data of samples with x = 0.16, 0.10, and 0.22 are shown
in Fig. 1. The zero-field data for all samples are fit to _C_(_T_,0) =
g(0)_T_ + _aT_2 + C lattice, where C lattice = _bT_3 + _bT_5 +
represents the phonon contribution. Data in magnetic fields are fit to
_C_(_T_,_H_) = g(_H_)_T_ + C lattice + _n_C_Skottky(_g_H_/_k_g_T_),
where the third term is a two-level Schottky anomaly C Skottky(_x_) =
x2_e_/(1 + _e_+)2. The anharmonic T5 term for the phonon contribution is
usually negligible at low temperatures, though inclusion of this term
sometimes improves the quality of fit. Both the individual-field and
global fit have been executed. It is found that both give similar
results and do not change any conclusion of this paper. The fit of data
below 7 or 8 K does not result in any significant change, either. In the
following, the results of individual-field fit for _C_(_T_,_H_) data
from 0.6 to 7 K will be discussed.

The fitting results for all samples are described by the solid lines in
Fig. 1, and the important resulting parameters are listed in Fig. 2 and
Table I. For x = 0.16 sample, g(0) = 0.77 mJ/mol K2 and b = 0.230 mJ/mol
K4. The corresponding Debye temperature is _th__D_ = 389 K, which agrees
with the literature value determined from this temperature range.[16]
The small but nonzero γ(0) was observed in all three samples, and
remains unexplained within the clean d-wave model.[5] For both the
x = 0.16 and 0.10 samples, no apparent T² term at H = 0 was observed as
in Ref. [6] for YBCO. γ(H) from the fit of data at H ≠ 0 is shown in
Fig. 2. The increase in γ(H) can be well described by AH^(1/2), which is
a manifestation of the lines of nodes in the gap. It is interesting to
note that the group at Berkeley obtained A = 0.47 mJ/mol K²T^(1/2) for
x = 0.15 LSCO,[7] which is comparable with our results. For x = 0.22, at
H = 0C/T vs T² shows an obvious downward curve at low temperatures
rather than a straight line, as marked by the arrow in Fig. 1(c). The
fit results in a significant αT² term. Since this αT² term is ∼20

Figure 2: Coefficient of the linear-T term γ for (a) x = 0.16, (b)
x = 0.10, and (c) x = 0.22 samples. The solid lines represent the fits
of γ = γ(0) + AH^(1/2).

contribution from the Schottky anomaly is important. The existence of
the αT² term at H = 0 and its disappearance in magnetic fields are both
consistent with the predictions for the d-wave superconductivity. The
increase in γ(H) is again well described by AH^(1/2). The obtained n
from the fit is of the order 1 mJ/mol K for all samples, and the
estimated concentration of spin-$\frac{1}{2}$ impurities per Cu atom is
lower than 0.01

With C_(e) both at zero and nonzero magnetic fields qualitatively well
described by d-wave superconductivity, it is interesting to compare
values of α and A with the theoretical estimates, and the results are
summarized in Table 1. The coefficient α is estimated to be
α ≈ γ_(n)/T_(c) , neglecting factors assumed to be of order 1. For the
x = 0.22 sample, taking γ_(n) = 12 mJ/mol K² for the corresponding T_(c)
from Ref. [10], the estimate gives α = 0.41 mJ/mol K⁻³, comparable to
the observed α = 0.31 mJ/mol K³.

Similar estimates give much smaller values of α for x = 0.10 and 0.16
than the estimated α of x = 0.22 (see Table 1). Therefore, it is
possible that the T² term cannot be confirmed by our measurements for
x = 0.10 and 0.16 may be either due to the intrinsic small values of α,
or due to the effects of a small amount of defects or impurities which
will be discussed later. In the same d-wave scenario,
A = kγ_(n)/H_(c2)^(1/2) , where H_(c2) is the upper critical field and k
is a factor of order 1.[2; 5; 6] If LSCO is much less known than that of
YBCO. Taking H_(c2) = 50 T for x = 0.16 with H parallel to the c
axis,[17]A = 0.96 mJ/mol K² T^(1/2) after averaging the anisotropy of
H_(c2). Given the uncertainties in such as k and H_(c2), the observed
A = 0.39 agrees reasonably well with the theoretical estimate. It would
be valuable to carry out the same comparison for x = 0.10 and 0.22.
However, H_(c2) of x = 0.10 or 0.22 is not available to our best
knowledge. According to A = kγ_(n)/H_(c2)^(1/2) and assuming that H_(c2)
is roughly proportional to T_(c) , one should expect that A of x = 0.10
is close to that of x = 0.16 and A of x = 0.22 is much larger. Our
results do show this trend.

According to the recent scaling theory,[14; 15]C_(e) ∝ TH^(1/2) is exact
only when T/H^(1/2)  ≈ T_(c)/H_(c2)^(1/2). When H is around the c axis,
roughly speaking, this criterion is satisfied in our experiments,
especially at high fields (see Fig. 4). Since H_(c2) is anisotropic,
C_(e) ∝ TH^(1/2) might not be valid when H is parallel to the planes.
For polycrystalline samples, however, when the contribution to C_(e)
from all directions is averaged, most of the contribution comes from
around the c axis where H_(c2) is smaller. Therefore, a polycrystalline
sample should still show the TH^(1/2) term.[18] To compare with the
scaling theory, C_(e)/(TH^(1/2)) vs T/H^(1/2) for x = 0.16 sample is
shown in Fig. 4. Here C_(e) is obtained by
$C_{e}\!=\!C\!-\!n\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\! \!\!  not clear theoretically, the experimental data seem to suggest that there is some approximate scaling relation for polycrystalline samples. The scaled data for \(x\!=\!0.10$
and 0.22 are similar and will be discussed elsewhere.

In addition to the intrinsic small values of α for x = 0.10 and 0.16,
another alternative to explain the absence of αT² in these samples is
the impurity effect. Should there be some impurities or defects in CuO₂
planes, the impurity scattering rate Γ could convert the T² term to the
linear T term. Furthermore, γ(H) = γ(0)[ 1 + D(H/H_(c2)) ln (H_(c2)/H)],
where D ≈ Δ/32Γ^(⋅19, 20) This expression can be tried to describe γ(H)
of x = 0.16, and results in Γ/Δ = 0.006. In principle, the scaling in
Fig. 4 should break down with the presence of impurity scattering.
However, with such a small Γ/Δ, the breakdown might be too small to
resolve by the measurements.[19] Trying the same expression on the
x = 0.22 sample fails to obtain a satisfactory fit, consistent with the
presence of the αT² term. It is therefore compelling that the x = 0.22
sample represents a clean d-wave superconductor. Whether the impurity
scattering causes the absence of the αT² term in the other two samples
and the validity of the expression of γ(H) with impurities cannot be
concluded by the present data. More studies on systematic impurity
doping are underway to elucidate these questions.

In conclusion, by C(T, H) measurements, we have shown that the
superconducting state of LSCO is consistent with the d-wave scenario for
the underdoped, optimum doped, and overdoped samples. No matter how
different and curious their normal state might be,[21] LSCO samples of
all doping levels seem to possess the same superconducting state.

We thank N. Momono and P. J. Hirschfeld for indispensable discussions.
Help from S. C. Lai and P. H. Chou is appreciated. This work was
supported by the National Science Council of Republic of China under
Contract Nos. NSC87-2112-M-110-006 and NSC87-2112-M-009-040.

## References

* [1] J. F. Annett, N. D. Goldenfeld, and A. J. Leggett, in _Physical
Properties of High-Temperature Superconductors_ V, edited by D. M.
Ginsberg (World Scientific, Singapore, 1996). * [2] G. E. Volovik, JETP
Lett. **58**, 469 (1993). * [3] H. Won and K. Maki, Europhys. Lett.
**73**, 2744 (1995). * [4] K. A. Moler, D. J. Baar, J. S. Urbach,
Ruixing Liang, W. N. Hardy, and A. Kapitulnik, Phys. Rev. Lett. **73**,
2744 (1994). * [5] K. A. Moler, D. L. Sisson, J. S. Urbach, M. R.
Beasley, and A. Kapitulnik, Phys. Rev. B **55**, 3954 (1997). * [6] R.
A. Fisher, J. E. Gordon, S. F. Reklis, D. A. Wright, J. P. Emerson, B.
F. Woodfield, E. M. McCarron III, and N. E. Philips, Physica C **252**,
237 (1995). * [7] D. A. Wright, J. P. Emerson, B. F. Woodfield, J. E.
Golden, R. A. Fisher, and N. E. Phillips (unpublished). * [8] B. Revaz,
J.-Y. Genoud, A. Junod, A. Erb, and E. Walker, Phys. Rev. Lett. **80**,
3364 (1998). * [9] N. Momono, M. Ido, T. Nakano, M. Oda, Y. Okajima, and
K. Yamaya, Physica C **233**, 395 (1994). * [10] N. Momono and M. Ido,
Physica C **264**, 311 (1996). * [11] A. P. Ramirez, N. Stuchlei, and E.
Bucher, Phys. Rev. Lett. **74**, 1218 (1995). * [12] Y. Nakazawa and K.
Kanoda, Phys. Rev. B **55**, R8670 (1997). * [13] A. P. Ramirez, Phys.
Lett. A **211**, 59 (1996). * [14] S. A. Simon and P. A. Lee, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **78**, 1548 (1997). * [15] G. E. Volovik, JETP Lett. **65**, 491
(1997). * [16] A. Junod, in _Physical Properties of High-Temperature
Superconductors_ II, edited by D. Ginsberg (World Scientific, Singapore,
1990). * [17] S. Uchida, H. Takagi, K. Kishio, K. Kitazawa, K. Fueki,
and S. Tanaka, Jpn. J. Appl. Phys., Part II **26**, L443 (1987). * [18]
P. J. Hirschfeld (private communication). * [19] C. Kubert and P. J.
Hirschfeld, Solid State Commun. **105**, 459 (1998); C. Kubert and P. J.
Hirschfeld, Phys. Rev. Lett. **80**, 4963 (1998). * [20] Y. S. Barash,
A. A. Svidzinskii, and V. P. Mineev, JETP Lett. **65**, 638 (1997). *
[21] For example, see H. Ding, M. R. Norman, T. Yokoya, T. Takeuchi, M.
Randeria, J. C. Campuzano, T. Takahashi, T. Mochiku, and Kadowaki, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **78**, 2628 (1997).
