Magnetic and superconducting phase diagram of electron-doped
Pr1_(−x)LaCe_(x)CuO₄

M. Fujita,* T. Kubo,+ S. Kuroshima, T. Uefuji, K. Kawashima, and K.
Yamada

Institute for Chemical Research, Kyoto University, Uji, Kyoto 610-0011,
Japan

I. Watanabe

RIKEN (The Institute of Physical and Chemical Research), Wako, Saitama
351-0198, Japan

K. Nagamine

RIKEN (The Institute of Physical and Chemical Research), Wako, Saitama
351-0198, Japan

and Meson Science Laboratory, Institute of Materials Structure Science,
High Energy Accelerator Research Organization (KEK-MSL), Tsukuba,
Ibaraki 305-0801, Japan

###### Abstract

We have investigated the magnetism and the superconductivity of the
electron-doped Pr1_(−x)LaCe_(x)CuO₄ by means of zero-field muon spin
rotation/relaxation and magnetic susceptibility measurements. At low
temperatures, a well-defined muon spin rotation free from the effect of
rare-earth moments was observed for samples with x≈0.08 corresponding to
the antiferromagnetic (AF) order of Cu spins. Bulk superconductivity was
identified in a wide Ce concentration range of 0.09≤x≈0.20 with a
maximum transition temperature of 26 K. Abrupt appearance of the
superconducting (SC) phase at x∼ 0.09 is concomitant with a destroy of
the AF ordered phase, indicating the competitive relation between two
phases. Possible relation between the wide SC phase and the lattice
spacing is discussed.

26 March 200267014514 2003 26 March 2002670145 ders of Pr6O11, La2O3,
CeO2, and CuO were mixed and sintered in air at 980^(∘)C for 12 h with
intermediate grindings. For the _m_SR measurements and the crystal
growth, the prefired powders were pelletized ( 1 mm in thickness and  20
mm in diameter) and baked at 1040^(∘)C for 24 h, and were shaped into
cylindrical rods (6 mm in diameter and 150 mm in length) under
hydrostatic pressure and sintered at 1200^(∘)C for 12 h, respectively.
Crystal growth was performed in a double focussing mirror furnace.
Growth conditions were similar to those used to NCCO single crystal.
[10] A part of each as-grown crystal rods ( 6 mm in diameter and  80 mm
in length) is sliced into thin disk with the thickness of  1 mm, and
they are mainly used for investigating SC phase.

All samples are carefully annealed under argon gas flow at 900-950^(∘)C
for  10 h and single crystals are subsequently annealed under O2
gas-flow at 500^(∘)C for  10 h. Removed oxygen content per unit formula
from as-grown samples was determined to be 0.03-0.05 from the weight
loss of the sample after the annealing treatment. For the
characterization of samples, we examined the Ce content and the lattice
constants by the inductively coupled plasma spectrometer and the x-ray
powder diffractometer, respectively. Evaluated Ce concentrations are
approximately the same as the nominal concentrations. At room
temperature both _a_- and _c_-axis lattice constants, which are larger
than those in PCCO, [14] change monotonically with x. We measured the
magnetic susceptibility with a superconducting quantum interference
device in order to determine _T_(c)_.

_m_SR measurements are performed on powder (_x_ = 0.04, 0.06, 0.09, and
0.11) and single crystal (_x_ = 0.08) samples at the pulsed muon source,
RIKEN-RAL muon facility, Rutherford Appleton Laboratory in UK. These
chosen values for x span the boundary between AF and SC phases. Positive
surface muons with perfectly polarized spins parallel to the beam and
with the momentum of 29.8 MeV/c are implanted into sample. Then muon
spins are depolarized by processing around a local magnetic field at the
muon sites. Therefore, the time evolution of muon spin polarization
(_m_SR time spectrum) obtained by the asymmetry of the decay positron
emission rate between forward and backward counters, _A_(_t_), provides
information on the distribution and/or the fluctuation of the local
magnetic field and the volume fraction of the magnetically ordered
phase. [15]

## III Results and Discussion

Figure 1 shows the susceptibility for the annealed single-crystal
samples in an applied field of 10 Oe after the zero-field-cooling
process. SC transitions are observed in the wide Ce concentration range
of 0.09≤_x_ <= 0.20, while no bulk superconductivity is detected for
0.08≤_x_ samples. Based on these results the lower critical
concentration of the bulk superconductivity is estimated to be between x
= 0.08 and 0.09. Note that onset _T_(c)^(′)_s of the x = 0.09 and 0.11
powder samples are identical with those of single crystals and
superconducting transition was not observed in the 0.04 and 0.06
samples. Thus, we concluded that the phase diagram for x <= 0.11 can be
well characterized by using either powder or single-crystal samples. We
also note that the uniform magnetic susceptibility of PLCCO above
_T_(c)_ is only  1

In Fig. 2, the normalized _m_SR time spectra after subtracting
time-independent background are shown for non-SC (_x_ = 0.08) and SC
(_x_ = 0.11) samples. In both samples, a Gaussian depolarization is
formed in the time spectra at high temperatures consistent with a static
nuclear-dipole field and

Figure 2: (ZF)-_μ_SR time spectra of PLCCO with (a) nonsuperconducting
(_x_ = 0.08) and (b) superconducting (_x_ = 0.11) samples. Solid lines
are results fitted with Eqs. (1) and (2). (See text.)

Figure 1: Magnetic susceptibility measured for single-crystal samples of
the PLCCO system after the zero-field-cooling process.

the rapid fluctuation of Cu²⁺ spins. At lower temperatures, the time
spectra change from a Gaussian-type depolarization to an exponential one
in both samples. This change suggests the appearance of static or
quasistatic internal magnetic field at muon sites possibly due to the
development of Cu spin correlation and the slowing down of spin
fluctuations. Upon further cooling to 4 K, an additional muon spin
rotation corresponding to the magnetic order appears in the x = 0.08
sample, while such a clear rotation is not observed in the x = 0.11
sample. Therefore, magnetic property changes near the phase boundary
upon electron doping. Flat time spectrum beyond ∼ 1 μsec is clearly seen
in x = 0.08 sample at 4 K, meaning a negligible effect of the Pr spin
fluctuation in contrast to the case of NCCO.[16, 17]

For the qualitative analysis of the time spectra, we first assumed a
combination of Gaussian and exponential functions,

A(t) = A₁exp (−λ₁t) + A₂exp (−λ₂²t²),

with A₁ + A₂ = 1, where A₁ and λ₁, A₂ and λ₂ are the initial asymmetry
at t = 0 and the depolarization rate for the exponential and Gaussian
components, respectively. The time spectra at the higher temperatures (≥
80 K) are well reproduced by this function. [In Figs. 2(a) and 2(b),
solid lines for the time spectra at the highest temperature are the
fitted results by Eq. (1).] With the decreasing temperature, A₁
increases due to the development of spin correlation. We defined a
characteristic temperature as T_(N1) where A₁ exceeds 0.5 or the
exponential component dominates. [See Fig. 3(a).] Then, to get more
information regarding the ordered phase at low temperatures, the time
spectra below T_(N1) were again fitted to the following equation:

A(t) = A₃exp (−λ₃t) + A₄exp (−λ₄t)cos (2 πft + ϕ),

with A₃ + A₄ = 1, where the first and second terms express components of
relaxation and rotation of muon spin. The parameters A₃ and λ₃ are the
initial asymmetry and the depolarization rate of exponential relaxation,
respectively. A₄ and λ₄ are those of rotation component and f and ϕ are
the frequency and the initial phase of rotation. Solid lines for the
time spectra at lower two temperatures in Figs. 2(a) and 2(b) are the
fitted results by Eq. (2).

In Figs. 3(b) and 3(c), the obtained parameters of A₄ and f, which
represent the AF volume fraction and the relative internal magnetic
field at the muon site, respectively, are shown for the samples located
near the boundary. We define T_(N2) as the onset temperature for the
appearance of muon spin rotation, corresponding to the existence of
_static_ AF ordered state. At low temperature, both A₄ and f decrease as
x increases. However, as seen in Fig. 3(c) the internal magnetic field
at muon sites decreases upon electron doping possibly due to the change
in either the amplitude or in the direction of staggered moment of Cu
spins. In contrast, in the hole-doped LSCO system, f in the long-range
AF ordered phase is constant for x ≈ 0.02[18, 19] where the evidence[20]
of a

Figure 4: Doping dependence of (a) T_(N1) (closed squares), T_(N2) (open
diamonds), and T_(c)(onset) (closed circles) and (b) initial asymmetry
for the rotation component of A₄ (open squares) and diamagnetic
susceptibility (closed circles) at temperature below 4 K. Solid lines
are guides to the eye. Shaded and hatched areas in the upper figure
correspond to AF and SC phases, respectively.

Figure 3: Fitting parameters of (a) initial asymmetry A₁ of the
exponential component in Eq. (1), (b) A₂, and (c) the frequency f of the
rotation component in Eq. (2) for x = 0.08, 0.09, and 0.11 samples.
Dashed lines are guides to the eye.

phase separation between three-dimensional long-range-ordered phase and
spin-glass phase was observed.[21, 22] Therefore, the AF order degrades
rather homogeneously in space upon electron doping in contrast to the
inhomogeneous degradation in the hole-doped system: In the
electron-doped system, the magnetic structure and/or staggered moment
are modified by doping, while in the hole-doped system, those of the
undoped system persists in the slightly doped compound.[22, 23] It
should be noted that magnetic Bragg peaks were observed by elastic
neutron-scattering measurements below T_(N1),[24] while no clear
evidence for a static internal field at the temperature between T_(N1)
and T_(N2) was obtained by longitudinal field μSR measurement.[25] Thus,
individual Cu²⁺ spins are fluctuating faster compared to the time scale
of μSR measurement (typically 10⁻⁶-10⁻¹¹ sec), although there exists
_time-averaged_ ordered moment. (The state with time-averaged moment is
defined to be the Neel state.)

In Fig. 4(a), the doping dependence of T_(N1), T_(N2) and T_(c)(onset)
are summarized. Upon electron doping, bulk superconductivity with
optimum T_(c) of 26 K abruptly appears at x∼0.09 like a
first-order-transition and T_(N2) is dramatically suppressed at the same
time. Therefore, at the ground state, SC phase appears concomitant with
the disappearance of the AF ordered phase as seen in the NCCO system,[5,
16] although two phases are partially overlapped due to coexistence or
microscopic phase separation. This result combined with a relation
between the doping dependences of A₄ and the diamagnetic susceptibility,
χ, at low temperatures [Fig. 4(b)] clearly demonstrates a competitive
relation between AF and SC phases. Abrupt onset of optimum
superconductivity accompanied by the disappearance of AF phase is
different from the result in the hole-doped system showing a penetration
of short-range AF ordered phase into the underdoped SC one.[6, 7, 8, 9]

Now we turn to the discussion on the doping range of SC phase. As seen
in Figs. 4(a), T_(c) is insensitive to the Ce concentration and this
feature characterizes the wide SC phase. The wide SC phase would be
related with the increase of effective carriers by La substitution
suggested from resistivity and Seebeck coefficient measurements.[12, 13]
Arima _et al._ reported a reduction of charge-transfer (CT) energy
between Cu 3d and O 2p bands as stretching Cu-O bond, i.e., lattice
spacing.[26] If the reduction of the CT energy is greater than the loss
from the decreasing orbital overlap,[27] then the gain in mobility would
make the introduction of electrons into the CuO₂ plane easier, resulting
in the wider SC phase. In other words, the narrower SC phases in NCCO
and PCCO compared to that in PLCCO originate from the short lattice
spacing.

On the other hand, for the appearance of superconductivity in the 2-1-4
electron-doped systems, a reduction procedure such as heat treatment is
necessary. Brinkmann _et al._ reported an extension of SC phase in PCCO
by an improved reduction technique and Kurahashi _et al._ shows an
occurrence of optimum superconductivity in the Nd_(1.85)Ce_(0.15)CuO₄ by
an adequate heat treatment.[10, 28] Therefore, SC composition range
depends on the reduction procedure. The slight difference in the SC
composition range for present crystals and powder samples of PLCCO
system[11, 13] possibly relates with differences in the heat treatment.

## IV Summary

We have performed magnetic susceptibility and μSR measurements for the
PLCCO system in order to investigate the universal feature in the phase
diagram of electron-doped system. AF order was observed in the sample
with 0.04≤x≤0.11. The AF order was dramatically suppressed at x∼ 0.09
which corresponds to the onset of the significantly wide SC phase
(0.09≤x≤0.20) upon doping. The obtained phase diagram combined with the
doping dependences of AF volume fraction and internal magnetic field
clearly demonstrates a competitive relation between AF and SC phases.
Unlike the case of hole-doped LSCO in which the magnetic structure
and/or staggered moment of the undoped system persists in the slightly
doped compound, those of PLCCO system are gradually modified by the
electron doping. The SC region of the PLCCO is much wider than that of
PCCO. Enlarged lattice spacing by the La substitution is a possible
reason for the introduction of carrier into the CuO₂ plane easier and
the wider SC phase. Further comprehensive studies on single crystals are
required to clarify the fundamental features in the electron-doped
superconductivity.

## Acknowledgments

We thank M. Kofu and K. Hirota for the technical assistance of ICP
measurements at Tohoku University, and K. Isawa, G-q. Zheng and M.
Matsuda for helpful discussion. This work was supported in part by the
Japanese Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology,
Grant-in-Aid for Scientific Research on Priority Areas (Novel Quantum
Phenomena in Transition Metal Oxides), for Scientific Research (A), for
Encouragement of Young Scientists, and for Creative Scientific Research
"Collaboratory on Electron Correlations–Toward a New Research Network
between Physics and Chemistry," by the Japan Science and Technology
Corporation, the Core Research for Evolutional Science and Technology
Project (CREST).

## References

* [1] H. Takagi, T. Ido, S. Ishibashi, M. Uota, S. Uchida, and Y.
Tokura, Phys. Rev. B **40**, 2254 (1989). * [2] J.B. Torrance, Y.
Tokura, A.I. Nazzal, A. Bezinge, T.C. Huang, and S.S.P. Parkin, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **61**, 1127 (1988). * [3] H. Takagi, S. Uchida, and Y.
Tokura, Phys. Rev. Lett. **62**, 1197 (1989). * [4] G.M. Luke, B.J.
Sternlieb, Y.J. Uemura, J.H. Brewer, R. Kadono, R.F. Kiefl, S.R.
Kreitzman, T.M. Riseman, J. Gopalakrishnan, A.W. Sleight, M.A.
Subramanian, S. Uchida, H. Takagi, and Y. Tokura, Nature (London)
**338**, 49 (1989). * [5] G.M. Luke, L.P. Le, B.J. Sternlieb, Y.J.
Uemura, J.H. Brewer, R. Kadono, R.F. Kiefl, S.R. Kreitzman, T.M.
Riseman, C.E. Stronach, M.R. Davis, S. Uchida, H. Takagi, Y. Tokura, Y.

Hidaka, T. Murakami, J. Gopalakrishnan, A.W. Sleight, M.A. Subramanian,
E.A. Early, J.T. Markert, M.B. Maple, and C.L. Seaman, Phys. Rev. B
**42**, 7981 (1990). * [6] A. Weidinger, Ch. Niedermayer, A. Golnik, R.
Simon, E. Recknagel, J.I. Budnick, B. Chamberland, and C. Baines, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **62**, 102 (1989). * [7] Ch. Niedermayer, C. Bernhard, T.
Blasius, A. Golnik, A. Moodenbaugh, and J.I. Budnick, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**80**, 3843 (1998). * [8] M.-H. Julien, A. Campana, A. Rigamonti, P.
Carretta, F. Borsa, P. Kuhns, A.P. Reyes, W.G. Moulton, M. Horvatic, C.
Berthier, A. Vietkin, and A. Revcolevschi, Phys. Rev. B **63**, 144508
(2001). * [9] M. Fujita, K. Yamada, H. Hiraka, P.M. Gehring, S.H. Lee,
S. Wakimoto, and G. Shirane, Phys. Rev. B **65**, 064505 (2002). * [10]
K. Kurahashi, H. Matsushita, M. Fujita, and K. Yamada, J. Phys. Soc.
Jpn. **71**, 910 (2002). * [11] K. Isawa, M. Nagano, M. Fujita, and K.
Yamada, Physica C **378-381**, 142 (2002). * [12] Y. Koike, A. Kakimoto,
M. Mochida, H. Sato, T. Noji, M. Kato, and Y. Saito, Jpn. J. Appl.
Phys., Part 1 **31**, 2721 (1992). * [13] J.L. Garcia-Munoz, M. Suaaide,
J. Fontcuberta, S. Pinol, and X. Obradors, Physica C **268**, 173
(1996). * [14] For instance, a- and c-axis lattice constants (I4/mmm
notation) measured using an identical experimental setup are 3.986 and
12.304 A for Pr_(0.85)LaCe_(0.15)CuO₄, and 3.960 and 12.150 A for
Pr_(1.85)Ce_(0.15)CuO₄. * [15] R.S. Hayano, Y.J. Uemura, J. Imazato, N.
Nishida, T. Yamazaki, and R. Kubo, Phys. Rev. B **20**, 850 (1979). *
[16] T. Uefuji, T. Kubo, K. Yamada, M. Fujita, K. Kurahashi, I.
Watanabe, and K. Nagamine, Physica C **357-360**, 208 (2001). * [17] I.
Watanabe, T. Uefuji, K. Kurahashi, M. Fujita, K. Yamada, and K.
Nagamine, Physica C **357-360**, 212 (2001). * [18] D.R. Harshman, G.
Aeppli, G.P. Espinosa, A.S. Cooper, J.P. Remeika, E.J. Ansaldo, T.M.
Roseman, D.L.W. Iliam, D.R. Noakes, B. Ellman, and T.F. Rosenbaum, Phys.
Rev. B **38**, 852 (1988). * [19] F. Borsa, P. Carretta, J.H. Cho, F.C.
Chou, Q. Hu, D.C. Johnston, A. Lascialfari, D.R. Torgeson, R.J. Gooding,
N.M. Salem, and K.J.E. Vos, Phys. Rev. B **52**, 7334 (1995). * [20] T.
Uefuji, K. Kurahashi, M. Fujita, M. Matsuda, and K. Yamada, Physica C
**378-381**, 273 (2002). * [21] F.C. Chou, F. Borsa, J.H. Cho, D.C.
Johnston, A. Lascialfari, D.R. Torgeson, and J. Ziolo, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**71**, 2323 (1993). * [22] M. Matsuda, M. Fujita, K. Yamada, R.J.
Birgeneau, Y. Endoh, and G. Shirane, Phys. Rev. B **65**, 134515
(2002). * [23] A.N. Lavrov, Yoichi Ando, Seiki Komiya, and I. Tsukada,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **87**, 017007 (2001) * [24] M. Fujita (unpublished). *
[25] T. Kubo, T. Uefuji, M. Fujita, K. Yamada, I. Watanabe, and K.
Nagamine, Physica C **378-381**, 354 (2002). * [26] T. Arima, I.
Kikuchi, M. Kasuya, S. Koshihara, Y. Tokura, T. Ido, and S. Uchida,
Phys. Rev. B **44**, 917 (1991). * [27] A. Manthiram, J. Solid State
Chem. **100**, 383 (1992). * [28] M. Brinkmann, T. Rex, H. Bach, and K.
Westerholt, Phys. Rev. Lett. **74**, 4927 (1995).
