# Magnetization and 11B NMR study of Mg1-_x_Al_B_2 superconductors

M. Pissas

Institute of Materials Science, NCSR, Demokritos, 153 10 Aghia
Paraskevi, Athens, Greece

G. Papavassiliou

Institute of Materials Science, NCSR, Demokritos, 153 10 Aghia
Paraskevi, Athens, Greece

M. Karayanni

Institute of Materials Science, NCSR, Demokritos, 153 10 Aghia
Paraskevi, Athens, Greece

M. Fardis

Institute of Materials Science, NCSR, Demokritos, 153 10 Aghia
Paraskevi, Athens, Greece

I. Maurin

School of Chemistry, Physics and Environmental Science, University of
Sussex, Brighton BN1 9QJ, United Kingdom

I. Margiolaki

School of Chemistry, Physics and Environmental Science, University of
Sussex, Brighton BN1 9QJ, United Kingdom

K. Prassides

Institute of Materials Science, NCSR, Demokritos, 153 10 Aghia
Paraskevi, Athens, Greece School of Chemistry, Physics and Environmental
Science, University of Sussex, Brighton BN1 9QJ, United Kingdom

C. Christides

Institute of Materials Science, NCSR, Demokritos, 153 10 Aghia
Paraskevi, Athens, Greece School of Chemistry, Physics and Environmental
Science, University of Sussex, Brighton BN1 9QJ, United Kingdom
Department of Engineering Sciences, School of Engineering, University of
Patras, 26110 Patras, Greece

18 January 2002; revised manuscript received 27 February 2002; published
30 April 2002

###### Abstract

We demonstrate the magnetic-field distribution of the pure vortex state
in lightly doped Mg1-_x_Al,B2 (_x_ 0.025) powder samples, by using 11B
nuclear magnetic resonance in magnetic fields of 23.5 and 47 kOe. The
magnetic-field distribution at T = 5 K is Al-doping dependent, revealing
a considerable decrease of anisotropy in respect to pure MgB2. This
result correlates nicely with magnetization measurements and is
consistent with _s_-band hole driven superconductivity for MgB2.

pacs: 74.25.-q, 74.60.-w, 76.60.Es + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL
REVIEW B, VOLUME 65, 184514

+ Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL REVIEW B, VOLUME 65, 184514

## I Introduction

The synthesis of MgB2 had been reported [1] in 1954 but only recently
Nagamatsu _et al._[2] discovered that this compound is a superconductor
with a surprisingly high _T_c   39 K. At first it was suggested [3] that
a BCS-type mechanism with strong electron-phonon coupling and high
phonon energy of the light boron atoms can be responsible for the
observed high _T_c. This is based on the observation of the isotope
effect [4] on _T_c and a strong negative pressure coefficient [5] of
_T_c. Alternatively, Hirsch [6] proposed a "universal" mechanism where
superconductivity in MgB2 is driven by the pairing of dressed holes.
Electronic band-structure calculations [7; 8; 9; 10] indicate that in
MgB2 the charge carriers are situated in two bands derived from the s
bonding _p_x,y-orbitals of boron, which are essentially two dimensional
(_2D_), and in one electron and one hole bands derived from the
_p_-bonding _p_z, orbitals of boron. Both, s and _p_z bands have strong
in-plane dispersion due to the large overlap between all p orbitals of
neighboring boron atoms. Despite some diversities in these models, there
is a general agreement [11; 12; 3; 6; 7; 8; 13] that the key point for
superconductivity in MgB2 is the _2D_s band of _p_z,y orbitals within
the boron layers, and the delocalized metallic-type bonding between
these layers. These calculations predict [7; 13; 14; 15] a strong
anisotropy in the Fermi surface (and possibly in the electron-phonon
coupling) that is consistent with the observed [16; 17] anisotropy in
_H_c2. Specifically, the anisotropic ratio: g = _H_c2/_H_c2, was found
[17; 18; 15] to be between 1.7 and 6, depending on the material and the
experimental method.

In view of this description, measurements on electron- or hole-doped
MgB2 are of interest as they may help our understanding of how the
electronic density of states and the Fermi surface depend on doping. Al
substitution for Mg in Mg1-_x_Al,B2 provides [19; 20] a way for electron
doping. The similarity of the calculated electronic density of states
between MgB2 and AlB2 indicates that doping results in simple filling of
the available electronic states, with one electron donated per Al [8; 9;
10]. A very first study of Al doped MgB2 has shown [19] that _T_c is
slightly suppressed for x 0.1. However, band-structure calculations show
[3] that there is a sharp drop in the density of states of MgB2 at only
slightly higher electron concentrations. Suzuki _et al._[10] predict
that in Mg1-_x_Al,B2 the concentration of s holes varies with x as _n_h
= (0.8 - 1.4_x_) x 1022 cm-3, leading to _n_h = 0 for x 0.6. For 0.1 < x
0.25, a two phase mixture is formed, whereas for x > 0.25 a single
nonsuperconducting phase is detected. The detrimental effect of doping
on _T_c in Mg1-_x_Al,B2 can be explained within the BCS model, as it
increases the Fermi energy (E_(F)) and decreases the density of states
_N_(E_(F)). Besides, thermoelectric power and resistivity measurements
show [21] that Mg1-_x_Al,B2 alloys are hole-type normal metals.

In order to analyze trends associated with the band filling and their
relation to loss of superconductivity, we have performed a detailed
study of Mg1-_x_Al,B2 (0 <= x 0.1) using structural, magnetic, and 11B
nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) line-shape measurements. Complementary
magnetic and NMR measurements reveal a decrease of anisotropy by slight
Al doping relative to pure MgB2 samples, providing an experimental
evidence about the effect of _s_-band hole filling in these
superconductors.

## II Experimental details

Powder samples with nominal composition Mg1-_x_Al,B2 (0 <= x 1) were
prepared by liquid vapor to solid reaction as described elsewhere. [22]
Synchrotron x-ray powder-diffraction measurements were performed on
Mg1-_x_Al,B2 samples, sealed in thin-wall glass capillaries, 0.5 mm in
diameter, at 295 K. Images of the Debye-Scherrer rings were recorded on
the 345-mm-diameter Mar Research circular image plate system on the BM1A
beam line at the ESRF, Grenoble. A monochromatic x-ray beam of
wavelength, l = 0.799 83 A and dimensions 0.5 x 0.5 mm2 was focused onto
the sample by sagittal bending of the second crystal of the
double-crystal Si(111) monochromator. Patterns were measured with
sample-to-detector distance of 200 mm for periods of 10 s. During the
data collection the sample was rotated about its axis by 10o.
One-dimensional diffraction patterns were obtained by integrating around
the rings using local software (program titled). dc-magnetization
measurements were performed in a superconducting quantum interference
device (SQUID) magnetometer (Quantum Design) under a magnetic field of H
= 10 Oe. ¹¹B NMR line-shape measurements of the central transition
(−1/2→1/2) were performed on two spectrometers operating in external
magnetic fields $H_{\rm o}$ = 23.5 and 47 kOe. The spectra were obtained
from the Fourier transform of half of the echo, following a typical
π/2−τ−π spin-echo pulse sequence.[23] The irradiation frequency was the
same in all experiments. The spectral bandwidth around the irradiation
frequency was ≈ 150 kHz, which is enough to cover adequately the NMR
signals at low temperatures.

## III Results and Discussion

### X-ray measurements

Figure 1(a) shows parts of the x-ray diffraction patterns that reveal a
clear splitting of the (002) reflection in Mg_(1.975)Al_(0.025)B₂
whereas the Mg_(1.995)Al_(0.005)B₂ is single phase sample. This implies
the onset of macroscopic phase separation with increasing Al
content.[20] A similar result has been reported[24] in C-doped MgB₂,
where the carbon miscibility is also very small as well: x<0.04. For
this reason we restrict our NMR study only to Mg_(1 − x)Al_(x)B₂ samples
with x≪0.025. The deduced lattice parameters are plotted in Fig. 1(b).
For x<0.025, the c axis exhibits a negative slope: dc/dx≈−0.2 A/at.

### Magnetic measurements

Thermomagnetic measurements show that all the examined samples are
superconductors, with their T_(c) decreasing quasilinearly with
increasing Al content (dT_(c)/dx≈−0.1 K/at.

Figure 2: (a) (upper panel) Zero field and field cooling magnetic moment
as a function of the temperature for 10≤H≤54 kOe for the powder
Mg_(0.99)Al_(0.01)B₂ sample used in NMR measurements. The dot lines are
simulations of the reversible magnetic moment, using a γ≈5.4 (see main
text). (b) (middle panel) Isothermal magnetization loops in the
reversible regime at 26≤T≈36 K for Mg_(0.99)Al_(0.01)B₂. (c) (lower
panel) Variation of H_(c2)^(ab) as a function of temperature for the x =
0.01 sample. The solid line is a fit with a power-law relation
H_(c2)^(ab)=H^(*)(1 − T/T_(c))^(ν) (H^(*)= 262±5 kOe, T_(c) = 37.9± 0.1
K, and ν= 1.27± 0.02). For comparison the H_(c2)^(ab)(T) curve (thick
solid line) of the x = 0 sample is included.

Figure 1: (a) Synchrotron x-ray diffraction (λ = 0.79983 Å) profiles
showing the (002), (101), and (100) reflections for the
Mg_(1 − x)Al_(x)B₂ samples with x = 0.005 and 0.025. (b) Variation of
the hexagonal unit-cell parameters of Mg_(1 − x)Al_(x)B₂ for 0≤x≈ 0.025.
Solid circles and squares correspond to the c and a axis of the
Mg_(1 − x)Al_(x)B₂ phase, respectively. The corresponding open symbols
for x = 0.025 are the cell constants of the second
(Mg_(1 − x)Al_(x)B₂)^(′) phase (see main text).

$$4\,\pi M = - \frac{\Phi_{\rm o}}{8\,\pi\lambda(T)^{2}\beta_{A}\gamma^{1/3}\sqrt{ \gamma^{2}\!-\!1}}\Bigg{[}\frac{1-4\,h^{2}}{3\,h^{2}}\sqrt{1\!-\!h^{2}}$$
(1)
$$+ \ln\!\Bigg{(}\frac{1+\sqrt{1-h^{2}}}{h}\Bigg{)}\Bigg{]},$$

where $h\!=\!H/H_{\rm c2}^{ab}$, λ = (λ_(ab)²λ_(c))^(1/3) is the average
penetration depth, β_(A) = 1.16, $\Phi_{\rm o}$ is the flux quantum, and
$\gamma\!=\!H_{c2}^{ab}/H_{\rm c2}^{c}$ is the anisotropy constant. To
simulate the M(T) data we assume first, a power-law relation:
H_(c2)^(ab)(T) = H^(*)(1 − T/T_(c))^(ν) (H^(*) = 262 ± 25 kOe,
T_(c) = 37.9 ± 0.1 K, and a ν = 1.27± 0.05), second, a λ ∼ 200 nm, and
third, an anisotropy constant γ^(∼) 5.4.

It is important to note that the power-law variation of H_(c2)^(ab)
concerns only the region T  > T_(c)/2. At lower temperatures the
H_(c2)^(ab) exhibits a negative curvature [18] and approaches saturation
at T = 0 K at a value of about 140 kOe. Assuming that: H_(c2)^(ab) is
about 140 kOe in both samples (x = 0 and 0.01), with a γ = 6 or 5.6,
then the estimated H_(c2)^(c) will be 23.3 kOe and 25 kOe, respectively.
Also, we find that the temperature dependence of H_(c2)^(ab) has the
same functional form for x = 0.01 and x = 0 (i.e., the same exponent)
whereas for x = 0.01 the T_(c) and the H^(*) values are smaller by 0.7 K
and 20 kOe respectively. Similarly, the M(H) data have been simulated by
using the same γ and a temperature depended λ(T). In agreement with the
NMR spectra (vide infra) for x = 0.01, the deduced value of the
anisotropy constant from magnetic measurements is _smaller than_ the
anisotropy constant of pure MgB₂ (γ ∼ 6). It is worth noting here that
both, the pure and Al-doped samples were prepared with the same method.
Thus, the obtained differences in γ cannot be attributed in the
preparation method used. To cross-check the validity of the estimated γ
values we have applied an alternative simulation method, [18] that was
used by Bud’ko _et al._ in pure MgB₂ powder samples, and we have
obtained exactly the same values.

### ¹¹B NMR measurements

Generally, vortices at low temperature form a lattice in the mixed state
of type-II superconductors, [25] generating a spatial field modulation
that gives rise to a characteristic magnetic-field distribution f(H)
with van Hove singularities. For a perfect vortex lattice the field
distribution exhibits a peak at a value H_(s), which corresponds to the
saddle point located midway between two vortices, whereas two steps at
the maximum ($H_{\rm max}$) and minimum ($H_{\rm min}$) fields are
expected. [26, 27] Other studies have [27, 28] shown that the f(H) is
reflected on NMR line shapes because the Larmor frequency of the
resonating nuclei depends linearly on the local magnetic field. Thus,
NMR is a very sensitive local probe of the spatially inhomogeneous
magnetic field associated with the vortex state, [26, 27] which is
formed in external magnetic fields $H_{c1}\!<\!H_{\rm o}\!<\!H_{c2}$. In
case of strong anisotropy and in applied field
$H_{c2}^{c}\!<\!H_{\rm o}\!\!<\!H_{c2}^{ab}$, a powder superconducting
sample with randomly oriented grains is expected to give a superposition
of magnetic-field distributions, ranging in between the normal state and
the Abrikosov lattice. In a recent study [23] it was observed that the
¹¹B NMR line shapes in pure MgB₂ remain unchanged down to the
temperature of the second critical field T_(c2) whereas for T  < T_(c2),
a second peak develops at lower frequencies. The intensity ratio of this
second peak to the unshifted high-T peak was observed to increase in
field $H_{\rm o}\!=\!23.5$ kOe when compared [23] with that in field
$H_{\rm o}$ = 47 kOe. A direct comparison of the NMR line shapes with
dc-magnetic measurements, that reveal the temperature dependence of
H_(c2)^(ab) and H_(c2)^(c), has shown that the frequency position and
the shape of the low-frequency peak follows the development of the
vortex lattice as a function of temperature. [23] Since in pure MgB₂,
H_(c2)^(ab) ≈ 140 kOe, [15, 17] this was explained by considering that a
part of the grains remains in the normal state (unshifted peak) down to
the lowest measured temperature T = 5 K when
$H_{c2}^{c}\!\!<\!H_{\rm o}$$<\!H_{\rm o}^{ab}$.

Figure 3 shows the ¹¹B NMR line shapes for x = 0.01 in 23.5 kOe as a
function of temperature. As in MgB₂ spectra, [23] the line shapes in the
normal state are temperature independent. For T  ≈ 30 K the vortex
lattice is formed, inducing a gradual shift of the peak frequency
(corresponding to H_(s)) that creates the characteristic asymmetric
broadening of the NMR frequency distribution as expected from the vortex
lattice only. [26] Remarkably, the normal-state signal component
disappears in the mixed superconducting state by light Al doping, and
only the pure vortex lattice signal is present. This effect indicates an
enhancement (relative to pure MgB₂) of H_(c2)^(c) above 23.5 kOe by Al
doping, which gives rise to the pure superconducting state at low
temperatures. At T  = 5 K the shift of H_(s) from the field $H_{\rm o}$
in the normal state is about 50 Oe. However, the expected [29] sharp
singularities in the field distribution function f(H) of the vortex
lattice are smeared out in our NMR spectra because we measure an
anisotropic polycrystalline sample. Thus, we cannot

Figure 3: ¹¹B NMR line shapes as a function of temperature for
MgB_(0.99)Al_(0.01)B₂ under a magnetic field H = 23.5 kOe. Each spectrum
is normalized to its maximum intensity for clarity.

estimate[28] whether a square or triangular type of vortex lattice is
formed.

Figure 4 shows NMR spectra at T = 5 K in _H_o = 23.5 kOe for
Mg_(1 − x)Al_(x)B₂ (0 ≤x≤ 0.025). At T = 300 K the NMR spectra are
essentially identical for 0 ≤x≤ 0.2. Since the cell constants change
slightly in this concentration region, the observed similarity in the
NMR spectra indicates that the induced line shape is resolution limited.
At T = 5 K all the samples are in the mixed state and the line shape
reflects the magnetic-field distribution from the vortex lattice.
Remarkably, the line shapes depend on x. As discussed above for the x =
0 system, the observed line shape is the result of the anisotropy.
Hence, the disappearance of the normal-state signal component and the
variation of the vortex state signal with x can be explained by assuming
that the anisotropy decreases with Al doping. For comparison we have
scaled the signal intensity of the x = 0.005 system under the
low-frequency tail of pure MgB₂ in Fig. 4. Apparently there is an
excellent matching of the two signals, providing clear experimental
evidence that this shoulder corresponds to the magnetic-field
distribution of the vortex state. Thus, it becomes evident that even for
x = 0.005 the component from the normal-state signal disappears. We also
notice that for x ≥ 0.025 the line shape changes drastically. This can
be explained by considering that either the anisotropy starts to
increase abruptly or the particular line shape is associated with the
onset of phase separation at this composition. Figure 5 shows the
dependence of the NMR spectra on Al doping for Mg_(1 − x)Al_(x)B₂ (0 ≤x≤
0.025), at T = 5 K and _H_o = 47 kOe. Contrary to Fig. 4, in all samples
the line shapes exhibit a low-frequency tail and an unshifted peak,
corresponding to coexisting vortex and normal-state components. This
indicates that 3.2≤y≤6.4 (e.g., for x = 0.01 sample) by considering
H_(c2)^(ab)₂≈ 140 kOe.

Results of Knight shift and nuclear spin-lattice relaxation rates
(1/_T_1) for ²⁵Mg, ¹¹B, and ²⁷Al nuclei were reported for MgB₂, ΔB₂, and
(Mg_(1 − x)Al_(x))B₂ powder samples.[30, 31, 32, 33] The comparison of
the data in the two compounds shows the dramatic drop of the density of
states at the boron site[32, 33] in AlB₂ and (Mg_(1 − x)Al_(x))B₂ with
respect to MgB₂. In addition, the discrepancies in the results of 1/_T_1
below _T_c , reported by different authors, can be explained[32] by the
strong anisotropy of the upper critical field in MgB₂. In this study the
observed decrease of anisotropy, by substituting Al for Mg, can be
attributed to the progressive electron filling of the σ bands with
increasing x, which reduces the anisotropy of the boron ρ states. It is
worth noting that we could not estimate the absolute anisotropy
constant, but we have found that the anisotropy in Al-doped samples is
smaller than the value of the x = 0 sample. In the microscopic theory
the anisotropy parameter is given[34] by γ²=
$\left\langle\Delta({\bf k}_{F})\upsilon_{ab}^{2}\right\rangle$/$\left\langle\Delta({\bf k}_{F})\upsilon_{c}^{2}\right\rangle$,
where υ_(i) are the Fermi velocities and ⟨⋯⟩ stands for Fermi-surface
averages. When the ratio ⟨υ_(ab)²⟩/⟨υ_(c)²⟩ is averaged over the entire
Fermi surface for MgB₂ it is close to unity,[3, 18] which means a strong
anisotropy of $\Delta({\bf k}_{F})$. Following the arguments of Bud’ko
_et al._,[18] the electron-phonon interaction is particularly strong on
the Fermi-surface sheets that are shaped as slightly distorted cylinders
along the _c_-axis crystal direction. If the gap Δ on the remaining
Fermi-surface sheets is negligible, the reduction of the anisotropy
could originate from the reduction of the σ holes, as mentioned above.

## IV Conclusion

In conclusion, we show the magnetic-field distribution in the pure
vortex state of lightly doped Mg_(1 − x)Al_(x)B₂ by using ¹¹B NMR
line-shape measurements. Our NMR and magnetization data reveal that
substitution of Al for Mg reduces the anisotropy substantially.
According to current theoretical

Figure 4: ¹¹B NMR line shapes of Mg_(1 − x)Al_(x)B₂ for 0.0≤_x_ ≈ 0.025
at T = 5 K in a field _H_o = 23.5 kOe. Each spectrum is normalized to
its maximum intensity for clarity.

models this behavior can be explained only if we consider a reduction of
the σ holes. We argue that our results provide an experimental basis for
further theoretical investigations concerning the important role of
p_(x, y) orbitals (which form the 2Dσ-holes band) in the
superconductivity of MgB₂.

###### Acknowledgements.

We thank the ESRF for provision of synchrotron x-ray beamtime and P.
Pattison and I. A. Beukes for help with the experiments.

## References

* [1] M. Jones and R. March, J. Am. Chem. Soc. **76**, 1434 (1954). *
[2] J. Nagamatsu, N. Nakagawa, Y. Z. Murakana, and J. Akimitsu, Nature
(London) **410**, 63 (2001); C. Buzea and T. Yamashita, Supercond. Sci.
Technol. **14**, R115 (2001) (for a recent review). * [3] J. Kortus, I.
I. Mazin, K. D. Belashchenko, V. P. Antropov, and L. L. Boyer, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **86**, 4656 (2001). * [4] S. L. Bud’ko, G. Lapertot, C.
Petrovic, C. E. Cunningham, N. Anderson, and P. C. Canfield, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **86**, 1877 (2001); D. G. Hinks, H. Claus, and J. D. Jorgensen,
Nature (London) **411**, 457 (2001). * [5] K. Prassides, Y. Iwasa, T.
Ito, Dam. H. Chi, K. Uehara, E. Nishibori, M. Takata, M. Sakata, Y.
Ohishi, O. Shimomura, T. Muranaka, and J. Akimitsu, Phys. Rev. B **64**,
012509 (2001); B. Lorenz, R. L. Meng, and C. W. Chu, _ibid._**64**,
012507 (2001). * [6] J. E. Hirsch and F. Marsiglio, Phys. Rev. B **64**,
144523 (2001). * [7] J. M. An and W. E. Pickett, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**86**, 4366 (2001). * [8] K. D. Belashchenko, M. van Schilfgaarde, and
V. P. Antropov, Phys. Rev. B **64**, 092503 (2001); K. D. Belashchenko,
V. P. Antropov, and S. N. Rashkew, _ibid._**64**, 132506 (2001). * [9]
G. Satta, G. Profeta, F. Bernardini, A. Continenza, and S. Massidda,
Phys. Rev. B **64**, 104507 (2001). * [10] S. Suzuki, S. Higai, and K.
Nakao, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **70**, 1206 (2001). * [11] Y. Kong, O. V.
Dolgov, O. Jepsen, and O. K. Andersen, Phys. Rev. B **64**, 020501(R)
(2001). * [12] P. P. Singh, Phys. Rev. Lett. **87**, 087004 (2001). *
[13] Y. Wang, T. Plackowski, and A. Junod, Physica C **355**, 179
(2001). * [14] F. Bouquet, R. A. Fisher, N. E. Phillips, D. G. Hinks,
and J. D. Jorgensen, Phys. Rev. Lett. **87**, 047001 (2001). * [15] O.
F. de Lima, R. A. Ribeiro, M. A. Avila, C. A. Cardoso, and A. A. Coelho,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **86**, 5974 (2001); S. Lee, H. Mori, T. Masui, Y.
Eltsev, A. Yamamoto, and S. Tajima, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **70**, 2255
(2001); M. Xu, H. Kitazawa, Y. Takano, J. Ye, K. Nishida, H. Abe, A.
Matsushita, N. Tsujii, and G. Kido, Appl. Phys. Lett. **79**, 2779
(2001). * [16] S. Patnaik, L. D. Cooley, A. Gurevich, A. A. Polyanskii,
J. Jiang, X. Y. Cai, A. A. Squitieri, M. T. Naus, M. K. Lee, J. H. Choi,
L. Belenky, S. D. Bu, J. Letteri, X. Song, D. G. Schlom, S. E. Babcock,
C. B. Eom, E. E. Hellstrom, and D. C. Larbalestier, Supercond. Sci.
Technol. **14**, 315 (2001). * [17] F. Simon, A. Janossy, T. Feher, F.
Muranyi, S. Garaj, L. Forro, C. Petrovic, S. L. Bud’ko, G. Lapertot, V.
G. Kogan, and P. C. Canfield, Phys. Rev. Lett. **87**, 047002 (2001). *
[18] S. L. Bud’ko, V. G. Kogan, and P. C. Canfield, Phys. Rev. B **64**,
180506 (2001); S. L. Bud’ko, _et al._, cond-mat/0201085, Phys. Rev. B
(to be published). * [19] J. S. Slusky, N. Rogado, K. A. Regan, M. A.
Hayward, P. Khalifah, T. He, K. Inumaru, S. M. Loureiro, M. K. Haas, H.
W. Zandbergen, and R. J. Cava, Nature (London) **410**, 343 (2001). *
[20] J. Y. Xiang, D. N. Zheng, J. Q. Li, L. Li, P. L. Lang, H. Chen, C.
Dong, G. C. Che, Z. A. Ren, H. H. Qi, H. Y. Tian, Y. M. Ni, and Z. X.
Zhao, cond-mat/0104366 (unpublished); J. Q. Li, L. Li, F. M. Liu, C.
Dong, J. Y. Xiang, and Z. X. Zhao, Phys. Rev. B **65**, 132505 (2002);
H. W. Zandbergen, M. T. Wu, H. Jiang, M. A. Hayward, M. K. Haas, and R.
J. Cava, Physica C **366**, 221 (2002). * [21] B. Lorenz, R. L. Meng, Y.
Y. Xue, and C. W. Chu, Phys. Rev. B **64**, 052513 (2001). * [22] M.
Pissas, E. Moraitakis, D. Stamopoulos, G. Papavassiliou, V. Psycharis,
and S. Koutandos, J. Supercond. **14**, 615 (2001). * [23] G.
Papavassiliou, M. Pissas, M. Fardis, M. Karayanni, and C. Christides,
Phys. Rev. B **65**, 012510 (2002). * [24] T. Takenobu, T. Ito, D. H.
Chi, K. Prassides, and Y. Iwasa, Phys. Rev. B **64**, 134513 (2001); I.
Maurin _et al._, Physica B (to be published). * [25] E. H. Brandt,
Physica C **369**, 10 (2002). * [26] E. H. Brandt and A. Seeger, Adv.
Phys. **35**, 189 (1986). * [27] W. Fite and A. G. Redfield, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **17**, 381 (1966). * [28] K. H. Lee, B. J. Mean, G. S. Go, S. W.
Seo, K. S. Han, D. H. Kim, H. Lee, B. K. Cho, and S. I. Lee, Phys. Rev.
B **62**, 123 (2000). * [29] A. Rigamonti, F. Borsa, and P. Carretta,
Rep. Prog. Phys. **61**, 1367 (1998), see Fig. 4. * [30] M. Mali, J.
Roos, A. Shengelaya, H. Keller, and K. Conder, Phys. Rev. B **65**,
100518 (2002). * [31] J. K. Jung, S. H. Baek, F. Borsa, S. L. Bud’ko, G.
Lapertot, and P. C. Canfield, Phys. Rev. B **64**, 012514 (2001). * [32]
S. H. Baek, B. J. Suh, E. Pavarini, F. Borsa, R. G. Barnes, S. L.
Bud’ko, and P. C. Canfield, cond-mat/0201450 (unpublished). * [33] H.
Kotegawa, K. Ishida, Y. Kitaoka, T. Muranaka, N. Nakagawa, H. Takagiwa,
and J. Akimitsu, cond-mat/0201578 (unpublished). * [34] L. P. Gor’kov
and T. K. Melik-Barkhudarov, Zh. Eksp. Teor. Fiz. **45**, 1493 (1963)
[Sov. Phys. JETP **18**, 1031 (1964)].
