Effect of thermodynamic fluctuations on the shape and width of the
resistive transition in three-dimensional amorphous superconducting
alloys

W. L. Johnson and C. C. Tsuei

IBM Thomas J. Watson Research Center, Yorktown Heights, New York 10598

26 January 1976

###### Abstract

Measurements of the fluctuation conductivity above T_(c) have been made
for several bulk amorphous superconducting alloys. The results are
compared to existing theories for fluctuation conductivity in
three-dimensional superconductors. Agreement with theory is obtained
very near T_(c), but significant deviations from the predictions of the
theory are found for higher temperatures. This is attributed to a
breakdown of the Ginzburg-Landau approach. The observed temperature
dependence of the fluctuation conductivity was similar in all samples
studied and suggests a universal dependence on temperature for bulk
amorphous superconductors. The effect of statistical variations in alloy
composition (occurring on the scale of the superconducting coherence
length ξ) on the width of the superconducting transition widths was
observed.

## I Introduction

Measurements of the enhanced conductivity of a superconductor above
T_(c) were first reported by Glover [1] and explained in terms of
evanescent Cooper pairs created by thermal fluctuations. The theoretical
work of Aslamasov and Larkin [2] (AL) provided a good account of
Glover’s results. Later experiments [3-5] and the theoretical work of
Maki [4, 5, 6, 7] Thompson [8] and Patton [9] revealed the importance of
another contribution to the fluctuation conductivity in addition to the
AL term. A recent review of experimental and theoretical results
pertaining to this problem has been given by Craven _et al._[10] and
also by Tinkham [11]. To date most of the experimental work has
concerned thin two-dimensional (2D) films obtained by vapor deposition,
since fluctuations are most easily observed when one dimension of the
sample is small compared to the coherence length of the superconductor.
The theoretical work has also emphasized the 2D case.

Conductivity fluctuations in 3D materials are generally difficult to
observe as pointed out by several authors [8, 11]. The expected
magnitude of the AL contribution for a clean 3D superconductor with a
coherence length at zero temperature of ξ(0)   1000 A will be of the
order of Δσ/σ₀   10^(∘) - 10^(∘) - 10^(∘) , where Δσ is the fluctuation
conductivity and σ₀ the normal-state conductivity. The anomalous Maki
terms will be of the same order. For an amorphous 3D superconductor, the
coherence length can be much smaller and of order ξ(0)   50 A. This is
essentially due to the short electron mean free path in an amorphous
material. The normal-state conductivity is also reduced by two orders of
magnitude. As a result, the AL contribution can be of order Δσ/σ₀  
10^(∘). It should be possible to measure the fluctuation conductivity
accurately in this case. Keck and Schmid [12] have recently proposed
that strong pair-breaking effects should lead to the disappearance of
Maki terms in the fluctuation conductivity of amorphous superconductors.
For many amorphous metals, the normal-state conductivity is nearly
temperature independent, 1/σ₀(dσ₀/dT) ≈ 10⁻⁴, and thus it may easily be
subtracted from the total conductivity to give an accurate measure of
the temperature dependence of the fluctuation conductivity. The
preceding ideas provided the motivation for the present study.

## II Experimental Procedures

An extremely important aspect of measuring fluctuation conductivity
concerns the problem of obtaining homogenous samples. Broadening of the
superconducting transition resulting from sample inhomogeneity creates
difficulty in determining the fluctuation conductivity. Several types of
samples were used in this study. These include amorphous Mo₃₀Fe₁₀ and
Nb₇₅Ge₂₅ samples prepared by rf sputtering with thicknesses of 0.2-1 μm,
and also amorphous La₇₈Au₂₂ (Ref. [13]) and La₇₅Au₁₅Cu₁₀ samples
prepared by liquid quenching in a vacuum of   10⁻⁴ Torr. The latter
samples are in the form of foils with thickness   50 μm. The ternary
composition was chosen to give a nearly temperature-independent
normal-state conductivity, 1/σ₀(dσ₀/dT) < 10⁻⁵. The structure of the
samples used was checked by x-ray diffraction. Samples used for the
conductivity measurements were those showing no indication of
crystallization in the x-ray scans.

Resistivity measurements were made using a standard four-probe
technique. Typical current densities of ≈ 1 A/cm² were used in the
measurements. The temperature was measured using a germanium resistance
thermometer with an absolute accuracy of 0.1degK and a relative accuracy
of 0.001 degK for temperatures in the vicinity of the superconducting
transitions. The resistance was measured with an accuracy of better than
one part in 104.

## III Results and Analysis

The measured superconducting transition temperatures of the samples
studied are given in Table 1 along with the composition and method of
preparation for each alloy. The transition temperature given was taken
to be the highest temperature for which the measured resistance was
zero. The width of the transitions as indicated by difference between
the temperatures at which the resistance was 25

The normalized resistance R(T)/R₀ (with R₀ the normal-state resistance)
as a function of temperature for amorphous La78Au25Cu10 and Mo30Fe70
samples are shown in Fig. 1. As previously mentioned, the normal-state
resistance for the La78Au15Cu10 sample is nearly temperature independent
with [1/σ₀(dσ/dT)] ∼ 10⁻⁵ for temperatures above   3_T_e. The uniform
nature of the liquid quenched foils permitted a reasonably accurate
determination of the value of ρ₀. These values are listed in Table 1 for
reference. Since _T_e was defined by R(T_(ρ)) = 0, it can be seen in
Fig. 1 that no significant rounding of the resistive transition is
observed on the low-temperature side of the transition. Such rounding
would be expected if significant inhomogeneity were present in the
samples and thus its absence provides evidence of homogeneity.

The rounding of the transitions above _T_e is visible up to temperatures
exceeding 2_T_e in Fig. 1. At 2_T_e, the normalized excess conductivity
Δσ/σ₀ is of order 10-3. Values of Δσ/σ₀ at 2_T_e for all samples studied
are given in Table 1 for comparison. The values of Δσ/σ₀ at 2_T_e range
from 3.2 × 10⁻⁴ for La78Au22 to 7.4 × 10⁻⁴ for the Nb3Ge alloy. The
resistive transitions for all samples are similar to those shown in
Fig. 1. The insert in Fig. 1 shows a magnified portion of the T_(e)
(t ≤ 0.02) may be attributed to sample inhomogeneity. For the sample
showing evidence of crystallization, this effect extends over a larger
temperature range t ≤ 0.05 showing this sample to be less homogeneous
than the corresponding amorphous sample prepared under identical
conditions. This will be discussed in more detail in a later section. It
should be noted that the exact temperature range for which transition
broadening is significant is somewhat arbitrarily defined. Adjusting the
experimental value of T_(e) yields large relative changes in the
resulting value of t (and ln t) when t → 0. We have defined T_(e) by the
R = 0 criteria. Previous work[14] suggests that less than half of the
sample must be superconducting in order to establish the continuity of
superconducting regions required to give R = 0. On this basis, one
expects the mean T_(e) of the sample to be near but slightly lower than
T_(e) as defined by the R = 0 criteria. Inspection of Fig. 2 shows that
if slightly lower T_(e) is chosen, the result will be a small increase
in the apparent transition-broadened region. A choice of higher T_(e)
would reduce the apparent region somewhat but does not seem very
reasonable on the basis of the above argument. The width of broadened
transition region will be discussed in more detail in Sec. IV. It should
be pointed out that T_(e) has been used as an adjustable parameter in
fitting experimental data to theoretical expressions for the fluctuation
conductivity by many investigators. This procedure is rather arbitrary
and can lead to spurious agreement between theory and experiment very
close to T_(e). In the present study, the comparison with theory will
not emphasize the region very close to T_(e) (t ≤ 0.02).

Considering the temperature range far enough away from T_(e) to avoid
the problem discussed above, one finds that the temperature dependence
of the fluctuation conductivity is very similar for all samples studied
up to the highest temperatures for which the fluctuation conductivity is
measurable ( 3_T_). The data for the amorphous La₇₈Au₂₂ and Nb₃Ge
samples are not shown in Fig. 2 to avoid overlap of the data points with
those presented. The detailed temperature dependence of the fluctuation
conductivity will be discussed in Sec. IV and compared to theory.

## IV Discussion

### Theoretical background

The fluctuation conductivity of a 3D superconductor above T_(e) can be
written as the sum of the two contributions

Δσ = σ_(ΔL) + σ_(MT),
(1)

where σ_(ΔL) is the contribution originally discussed by Aslamasov and
Larkin[2] and σ_(MT) is the contribution of the anomalous or
Maki-Thompson terms.[6-8] The second term has been found to be essential
in describing the anomalously large fluctuation conductivity of thin
films with small pair-breaking effects.[10] In the 3D case, the AL term
can be written[8]

σ_(ΔL)(3D) = e²/32ξt^(1/2),
(2)

where ξ is the coherence length at zero temperature and may be obtained
from measurement of the temperature dependence of H_(e2) using the
expression H_(e2) = |t|/2eξ². In practical units, e² = 2.43 × 10⁻⁴Ω⁻¹.
The reduced temperature t is the same as that defined previously but
changes sign below T_(e). In the absence of pair breaking, the Maki term
for the 3D case is simply

δ_(MT)(3D) = e²/8ξt^(1/2)
(3)

which is just 4σ_(ΔL)(3D). In the presence of pair breaking, the Maki
term becomes[15]

σ_(MT)(3D) = (e²/8ξt^(1/2)){1/[1 + (6/ϵ₀)^(1/2)]} ,
(4)

where ϵ₀ = 8/τ(T − T_(e)) and δ represents the pair-breaking parameter.
For large δ, σ_(MT) − 0. A similar result for the 2D case was used to
explain the absence of Maki terms in the fluctuation conductivity of
amorphous Bi films and lead films for which agreement was found with the
simple AL

Figure 2: Logarithmic plot of the normalized excess conductivity
(Δσ/σ_(d)) as a function of the reduced temperature
t = (T − T_(e))/T_(e). Samples include amorphous Mo₃₀Re₇₀, La₇₈Au₁₆Cu₁₀,
La₇₈Au₂₂, and the La₇₈Au₂₂ sample showing evidence of crystallization.
This sample was prepared under identical conditions as the amorphous
sample but with lower cooling rate.

theory.10,11 It was argued that 6 should be large for these materials,
and thus that Maki terms should be small.

Appel16 has shown that the pair-breaking parameter can be generally
related to other material parameters through the following expression:

ξ ∝ λ/MΘ_(D)²

where l is the electron-phonon coupling constant, M is the atomic mass,
and O_D_ is the Debye temperature. Keck and Schmid12 have pointed out
that in amorphous materials l is generally large, and Θ_(D)² small.
Using a detailed argument involving the Eliashberg function α²F(ω), they
showed that the pair-breaking parameter will be very large and thus
should generally lead to suppression of Maki terms for amorphous
superconductors. Indeed, the results for 2D amorphous films support this
argument.10

Finally, it should be pointed out that the theoretical calculations of
the fluctuation conductivity in the literature2,6-9 concern the
temperature range near T_(e). The use of the Ginzburg-Landau free-energy
functional involves the assumption that not only b, but also its
derivatives vary slowly in space. When T − 2T_(e), for example, _x_(_t_)
becomes less than _x_(0) and short-wavelength fluctuations become
increasingly important. The slow-variation approximation certainly
breaks down in this case. This problem has been discussed by Gollub _et
al._ in conjunction with the behavior of the fluctuation diamagnetism.17
Experimentally, it was found that large deviations from
Ginzburg-Landau-type theories occur in the fluctuation diamagnetism of
3D samples17,18 for temperatures far from T_(e).

### Comparison of results with theory

Before attempting a comparison of experimental results for the
fluctuation conductivity with theory, it is worthwhile to digress
briefly on the problem of transition broadening in somewhat more detail.
It has been experimentally observed (see Table I and Fig. 2) that the
width of the broadened transition region is of the order of 0.02 degK in
all of the amorphous alloys studied. Since several amorphous samples
were used, and two very different preparation techniques employed, it
seems worthwhile to consider the origin of this broadening.

In addition to temperature, there are other thermodynamic variables for
which fluctuations about the mean values may be important. These include
alloy composition and atomic density to name two. As in the case of
temperature fluctuations, the fluctuation in these parameters become
important when the characteristic volume considered becomes small. A
detailed discussion of composition and density fluctuations is given by
Landau and Lifshitz.19 In the present case we take the characteristic
volume to be determined by the superconducting coherence length at zero
temperature x. Using the volume V = $\frac{4}{3}\pi\xi^{3}$, and
designating the mean atomic volume as n_(a), one finds that the
characteristic volume contains _V/n__a_ atoms. For a binary alloy with
composition A1-_xB__x_, there are on the average (1 - _X_)_N_ A atoms
and _X_N_ B atoms in this volume. If the alloy is taken to be an ideal
random solid solution, then the root-mean-square deviation in the number
of B atoms will be roughly (_NX_)1/2 giving a mean deviation of <=
_X_>1/2 = _X_>/(_NX_)1/2 in the compositional variable X. For an
amorphous superconducting alloy such as La79Au22, <-70 A.13 This gives
N - 104 atoms in a characteristic volume and <= _X_>1/2   10-2X. The
derivative of T_(e) with respect to composition for the La-Au system can
be taken from Ref. 13 and is _dT__e_/_dX_ = 0.05 degK/at.

$$\langle\Delta T_{e}^{2}\rangle = \frac{dT_{g}}{dX}\langle\Delta X^{2}\rangle^{1/2} = 0.01\,^{\circ}\!\!\times$$

for the broadening of the transition temperature of this amorphous
alloy. The main assumption made is that a volume with characteristic
dimension x will exhibit a transition temperature characteristic of the
composition within that volume. This assumption can be put on a firm
basis by appealing to the theory of the proximity effect. Another
argument similar to that above can be made which shows that broadening
of the transition due to fluctuations in atomic density will yield
broadening effects of nearly the same magnitude. Density fluctuations
can be interpreted in terms of a variation in the effective hydrostatic
pressure in different regions of the sample which broaden the transition
through the dependence of T_(e) on pressure (_dT__e_/_dp_). This
dependence is quite large for lanthanum.20

The observed magnitude of transition broadening for the La-base alloys
is indeed on the order predicted by the above arguments. All samples
studied show broadening effects of this magnitude. The preceding
argument suggests that the observed broadening can be explained as a
general property of amorphous superconductors which results from
fluctuations in fundamental thermodynamic variables. This has
interesting implications for the study of critical phenomena in
amorphous superconductors and more generally for any superconductor with
small coherence length. For the present study, the preceding implies
that the fluctuation conductivity may be generally inaccessible near
T_(e) in amorphous superconductors. With this in mind, we return to the
problem of comparing the present results to theory.

On the basis of the suggestion by Keck and Schmid[12] that large
pair-breaking effects should suppress the Maki terms in the fluctuation
conductivity for amorphous materials, we begin by calculating the
theoretical value of the AL term for the samples studied. This requires
a knowledge of ξ(0), the zero-temperature coherence length, as
determined from a measurement of H_(eq)(T). These data for La₇₈Au₂₂ are
taken from Ref. 13. Linear extrapolation gives H_(eq)(0) = 80 kG which
in turn gives ξ = 63 A. One finds for La₇₈Au₂₂

$$\sigma_{\rm AL} = (12.1/t^{1/\Delta})\ (\Omega\,{\rm cm})^{- 1}.$$

Since σ₀ = 1/σ₀ and using ρ₀ = 280μ$\Omega\,{\rm cm}$ for La₇₈Au₂₂, one
obtains

$$\sigma_{\rm AL}/\sigma_{0} = 3.37 \times 10^{- 3}/t^{1/\Delta}.$$
(7)

This may be compared to the experimental results by plotting the ratio
$r = \Delta\sigma/\sigma_{\rm AL}$ as a function of t. If the AL term
alone describes the fluctuation conductivity, then this ratio should be
1 for all t. Only data lying outside the transition-broadened region
(shown in Fig. 2) were used in this comparison in order to avoid over
estimating the experimental fluctuation conductivity. The result is
shown in Fig. 3. It can be seen that in the limit T − T_(c) (t − 0) the
value of r ≈ 1. The error in the calculation value of $\sigma_{\rm AL}$
is about ±10% and comes from the uncertainty in H_(eq)(0). The error in
Δσ is approximately ±20% coming mainly from the uncertainty in ρ₀(σ₀).
The error in the ratio $\Delta\sigma/\sigma_{\rm AL}$ is thus  ∼ ±25%.
Thus within the error we find that in the limit t − 0, the observed
fluctuation conductivity is accounted for entirely by the AL
contribution.

For the amorphous Nb₃Ge, data for H_(eq)(T) are not available. However,
for high disordered Nb₃Ge films with T_(c) range from 7.5 to 17 degK it
was found that (dH_(eq)/dT)_(T_(c)T_(c)) = 100 kG/degK and H_(eq)(0) =
350 kG independent of T_(c)[21]. On this basis, we estimate
H_(eq)(0) = 300 kG for the amorphous Nb₃Ge. This in turn gives a
coherence length ξ(0) ∼ 30A. The theoretical value of $\sigma_{\rm AL}$
should be about twice that of the La-Au alloys. The observed values of
Δσ/σ₀ for Nb₃Ge are also twice those observed for La₇₈Au₂₂ (see Table 1)
and therefore it can be concluded that the fluctuation conductivity for
Nb₃Ge may also be explained in terms of an AL term in the limit t − 0.
An estimate of H_(eq)(0) for amorphous Mo₃₀Re₇₀ based on measurements
for similar binary amorphous alloys containing only transition
metals[22] gives H_(eq)(0) ∼ 300 kG. Roughly the same value of ξ and
$\sigma_{\rm AL}$ are estimated as for Nb₃Ge and again the observed
values of Δσ are twice those of La₇₈Au₂₂. Summarizing, the observed
magnitude of the fluctuation conductivity near T_(c) (t − 0) can be
accounted for by the AL term alone in all samples. In the case of the
lanthanum alloys, all parameters required to calculate $\sigma_{\rm AL}$
were taken from direct measurement.

In order to compare the data with the temperature dependence predicted
by the AL theory the slope d(ln Δα)/d(ln t) was plotted as a function of
t. For the AL theory $d(\ln\sigma_{\rm AL}(3D))/d(\ln t) = 0.5$ [see Eq.
(2)] for all t. In Fig. 3, this is compared to the data for all three
alloys studied. Again, data in the broadened transition region were not
used. For t − 0, it can be seen that d(ln Δα)/d(ln t) − 0.5 ± 0.05 for
all three materials. We find good agreement with the AL theory in the
region near T_(c).

It can be concluded from the preceding that the AL term alone can
account for both the temperature dependence and the magnitude of the
observed fluctuation conductivity near T_(c). Combined with the argument
of Keck and Schmid[12], this provides strong evidence for the general
absence of Maki terms in the case of 3D amorphous superconductors. The
AL theory does not give satisfactory agreement with the data for
t ≥ 0.05. At high temperatures (t − 1), the disagreement is large. The
magnitude of Δσ falls well below the AL prediction at high t and the
temperature dependence of Δσ is not describable by any power law. A good
fit to the temperature dependence of Δσ is illustrated in Fig. 4 for
La₇₈Au₂₅Cu₁₀ and Mo₃₀Re₇₀. It can be seen that Δσ ∝ e^(σt1/Δ) over a
wide range of t where γ is approximately 4.5 for all samples studied.
Several exponential functions were used to fit the data with the above
expression giving the best result for a broad range of t. Since the
above function is nonsingular for t − 0, it is clear that it cannot
describe the observed behavior near T_(c). The data in the region near
T_(c) deviate from this form as can

Figure 3: Comparison of the temperature dependence and magnitude of the
excess conductivity with the predictions of the AL theory for several
amorphous samples. Values corresponding to the AL theory are indicated
by the dashed lines.

be seen in Fig. 4.

The apparent breakdown of the AL theory for t ≥ 0.05 can be interpreted
as resulting from the use of the Ginzberg-Landau free-energy functional.
The slow variations approximation discussed in Sec. IV.1 should be
expected to fail for large t. The increased importance of
short-wavelength fluctuations must take into account at higher
temperature.[17] Perhaps the most surprising result of the present work
is that the failure of the theory occurs for quite small values of
t(^(∼)0.05). This may signal the need to go beyond the mean-field type
of theory in accounting for critical behavior of dirty 3D
superconductors. It is interesting that in the 2D case, evidence for
failure of the mean-field theory was not found even for quite large t
values.[10]

Finally, the present results can be compared to that of Gollub _et al._
on the fluctuation diamagnetism of 3D superconductors.[17, 18] Large
deviations from theoretical predictions based on the Ginzberg-Landau
free-energy functional were also observed in that work. The
high-temperature fluctuation diamagnetism was found to have a roughly
exponential temperature dependence. This result is in qualitative
agreement with the present work and strengthens the interpretation of
the results found here.

## V Conclusions

Measurements of the fluctuation conductivity of several
three-dimensional (bulk) amorphous superconducting alloys have been
made. The temperature dependence of the fluctuation conductivity was
found to be nearly identical in all materials studied. It is thus
proposed that this dependence is characteristic of three-dimensional
amorphous superconductors. The theoretical predictions of the
Aslamasov-Larkin theory were found to provide a good quantitative
account of the data near T_(o). Evidence was presented to show that
anomalous or Maki-Thompson terms are not present in the fluctuation
conductivity. For higher temperatures (t ≥ 0.05), the predictions of the
Aslamasov-Larkin theory are found to disagree significantly with
experimental results. It is suggested that this is a result of the
breakdown of the Ginzberg-Landau free-energy functional.

The importance of transition broadening in amorphous superconductors was
discussed in some detail. It was suggested that compositional and
atomic-density fluctuations of a thermodynamic origin limit the width of
the superconducting transition in amorphous alloys. Estimates of
transition broadening based on a simple thermodynamic argument give
broadening effects of the order observed. The present results suggest a
need for additional theoretical work aimed at extending the description
of fluctuation conductivity to temperatures beyond the region of
validity of the mean-field theory.

###### Acknowledgements.

The authors wish to thank Professor M. Tinkham for useful discussions
and M. Albert for technical assistance during the initial stage of this
work.

## References

* [1] R. E. Glover, Phys. Lett. A 25, 542 (1967). * [2] L. G. Aslamazov
and A. I. Larkin, Phys. Lett. A 26, 238 (1968). * [3] W. E. Masker and
R. D. Parks, Phys. Rev. B 1, 2164 (1970). * [4] J. E. Crow, R. S.
Thompson, M. A. Klenin, and A. K. Bhatnagar, Phys. Rev. Lett. 24, 371
(1970). * [5] A. K. Bhatnagar, P. Kahn, and T. J. Zammit, Solid State
Commun. 8, 79 (1970). * [6] K. Maki, Prog. Theor. Phys. 39, 897
(1968). * [7] K. Maki, Prog. Theor. Phys. 40, 193 (1968). * [8] R. S.
Thompson, Phys. Rev. B 1, 327 (1970). * [9] B. R. Patton, Phys. Rev.
Lett. 27, 1273 (1971). * [10] R. A. Craven, G. A. Thomas, and R. D.
Parks, Phys. Rev. B 7, 157 (1973). * [11] Tinkham, _Introduction to
Superconductivity_ (McGraw-Hill, New York, 1975). * [12] B. Keck and A.
Schmid, Solid State Commun. 17, 799 (1975). * [13] W. L. Johnson, S. J.
Poon, and P. Duwez, Phys. Rev. B 11, 150 (1979). * [14] C. C. Tsuei and
L. R. Newkirk, J. Mat. Sci. 8, 1307 (1973). * [15] K. Maki, Prog. Theor.
Phys. 45, 1016 (1971).

Figure 4: The logarithm of the normalized excess conductivity as a
function of $\sqrt{t}$ for two amorphous samples showing the exponential
dependence of the fluctuation conductivity on temperature over a range
of several orders of magnitude.

* [16] J. Appel, Phys. Rev. Lett. 21, 1164 (1968). * [17] J. P. Gollub,
M. R. Beasley, R. Callarotti, and M. Tinkham, Phys. Rev. B 7, 3039
(1973). * [18] J. P. Gollub, M. R. Beasley, and M. Tinkham, Phys. Rev.
Lett. 25, 1646 (1970). * [19] L. D. Landau and E. M. Lifshitz,
_Statistical Physics_ (Permagon, Oxford, 1958). * [20] W. E. Gardner and
T. F. Smith, Phys. Rev. 138, A484 (1965). * [21] H. C. Jones, Appl.
Phys. Lett. 27, 471 (1975). * [22] W. L. Johnson and S. J. Poon, J.
Appl. Phys. 46, 1787 (1975).
