# Josephson plasma frequencies in overdoped Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O_(8 + δ)

H. Shibata and A. Matsuda

NTT Basic Research Laboratories, 3-1 Morinosato Wakamiya, Atsugi-shi,
Kanagawa 243-0198, Japan

20 November 1998; revised manuscript received 26 January 1999

###### Abstract

Far-infrared sphere resonance in Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O_(8 + δ) samples with
various oxygen concentrations is measured down to 5 cm⁻¹. Although no
peaks are observed in this frequency range for the optimally doped
sample, the Josephson plasma peak is observed at 5 cm⁻¹ for a
1-mm-O₂-annealed sample. The peak shifts to higher frequencies as the
doping increases, and is observed at 11 cm⁻¹ for a 150-atom-O₂-annealed
sample. The c-axis penetration depth λ_(c) obtained from the peak
frequencies is determined to be 77 to 35 μm. These large λ_(c) values
are larger than the value estimated from the Josephson-coupled layer
model, while the doping dependence is qualitatively explained by the
model. [S0163-1829(99)50718-2]

It is believed that the electronic state of the high-T_(c) cuprates in
the superconducting state is two dimensional. Many cuprates, such as
Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O_(8 + δ), exhibit dc and ac intrinsic Josephson effects,
which reveals that the Josephson-coupled layer model along the c axis is
applicable to the high-T_(c) cuprates.[1] In the model, the plasma of
condensed carriers observed in the far-infrared region is considered to
be the Josephson plasma.[2] The plasma has been observed in most of the
high-T_(c) cuprates, such as La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄ (_T_ phase),
YBa₂Cu₃O_(6 + δ), Nd_(x)CuO_(4 − x)F_(x) (_T^(′)_ phase),
La_(2 − x)Ca_(1 + x)Cu₂O_(6 + δ), Tl₂Ba₂CuO₆,
Bi_(1.85)Pb_(0.35)Sr₂Ca₂Cu₃O₇ (Bi2223), and
SmLa_(1 − x)Sr_(x)CuO_(4 − δ) (_T^(′)_ phase).[3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10]
However, there are no reports of its observation in Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O_(8 + δ)
in a zero magnetic field. In an earlier report by Tajima _et al._, the
plasma was not observed down to 30 cm⁻¹.[11] We have also shown that the
plasma does not exist down to 7.5 cm⁻¹ for optimally doped
Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O_(8 + δ).[3]

Contrary to these optical measurements, many microwave measurements have
shown an absorption peak of Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O_(8 + δ) under a magnetic field
when microwave electric fields are applied parallel to the c axis.[12,
13, 14, 15] The peak has also been identified as the Josephson
plasma.[16] However, recently Soni claimed the peak is from the vortex
vibration mode.[17] While the peak disappears in a zero magnetic field
based on the latter interpretation, there have been some estimations of
the plasma frequency in a zero magnetic field based on the former. Tsu,
Ong, and Peterson estimated the zero field plasma frequency to be 5.3
cm⁻¹ from the angular and magnetic field dependence of the plasma.[13]
Walkenhorst _et al._ estimated it to be from 105 to 220 GHz (3.5 to 7.3
cm⁻¹) from a mixing experiment with a bias current.[14] Ichiguchi
estimated it to be 107 GHz (3.6 cm⁻¹) from magnetic field dependence of
the plasma.[15] Observation of the plasma in a zero magnetic field in
the above frequency range will strongly support the validity of the
interpretation of the Josephson plasma, as well as provide useful
information, such as the c axis penetration depth.

In this paper, we report the Josephson plasma frequencies of
Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O_(8 + δ) with various oxygen concentrations in a zero
magnetic field. Although the plasma was not observed for the optimally
doped sample due to the low-frequency limitation of the measurement, the
plasma was found at 5 cm⁻¹ for a 1-atm-O₂-annealed sample, 8 cm⁻¹ for a
9-atm-O₂-annealed sample, and 11 cm⁻¹ for a 150-atm-O₂-annealed sample.
The c-axis penetration depth λ_(c) is estimated from the peak
frequencies, and is discussed based on the Josephson-coupled layer
model.

In the experiment, the sphere resonance method was adopted to find the
Josephson plasma.[3, 4, 10, 18, 19] The method is easier than the
conventional reflectivity measurement of single crystals; it uses only
powder samples and requires no growth of thick single crystals. One may
think that the method cannot determine the plasma along the c axis,
since the spectra of the powder sample may include both the c-axis and
the in-plane response in a complex manner. However, as shown in the
following, the spectra is dominated by the c-axis response in the
far-infrared region.[3] The only assumption is that the in-plane spectra
is metal-like with a plasma frequency of around 1 eV, which has been
commonly observed for all the high-T_(c) cuprates. In the sphere
resonance, the effective dielectric constant of the medium, ϵ^(av)(ω) is
calculated according to the relation

$$\frac{\epsilon^{av}(\omega)-\epsilon_{m}}{\epsilon^{av}(\omega)+2\epsilon_{m}} =\frac{f}{3}\sum_{i}\frac{\epsilon_{i}(\omega)-\epsilon_{m}}{\epsilon_{i}( \omega)+2\epsilon_{m}},$$
(1)

where ϵ_(i)(ω) and ϵ_(m) are the dielectric constants of a single
crystal along the i-th crystal axis and polyethylene, and f is the
volume fraction of the particles.[18, 19] Since ϵ_(a, b)(ω) is strongly
negative in the far-infrared region due to the metallic-like property in
these directions, ϵ_(a, b)(ω) are canceled in Eq. (1) and the effective
dielectric constant becomes

$$\epsilon^{av}(\omega)=\epsilon_{m}\frac{(1+2f)\epsilon_{c}(\omega)+2(1+f) \epsilon_{m}}{(1-f)\epsilon_{c}(\omega)+(2-f)\epsilon_{m}}.$$
(2)

Equation (2) shows that the resonance peak appears at
ϵ_(1c)(ω) ≈ −2ϵ_(m) and the ab-plane resonance peak around 1 eV has no
effect in the far-infrared region. The usefulness of this method has
also been confirmed by many experiments: the sphere resonance of many
cuprates, such as La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄, YBa₂Cu₃O_(6 + π),
La_(2 − x)Ca_(1 + x)Cu₂O_(6 + δ), and Nd₂CuO_(4 − x)F_(x), are
consistently in agreement with the c-axis reflectivity data on single
crystals.[3, 8]

Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O_(8 + δ) single crystals were grown by the conventional
self-flux method in alumina crucibles. The samples were oxidized at 500
degC for 100 h in various oxygen atmospheres and quenched to room
temperature. For the high-oxygen-pressure annealing, a furnace for hot
isostatic pressing (HIP) was used. The Meissner signals of these samples
are summarized in Fig. 1, which shows that T_(c) decreases from 89 to 71
K as the doping increases from optimum to slightly overdoped. The
crystals were ground into fine particles about ∼2 μm in diameter, mixed
with polyethylene powder in a volume fraction f≈0.5

Figure 2 shows the difference in the absorption coefficients between
α(T) and α(T>T_(c)) for Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O_(8 + δ) particles in polyethylene
with various doping levels. No peaks appear for the optimumly doped
samples. However, a peak appears at 5 cm⁻¹ for the 1-atm-O₂-annealed
sample, and it shifts to 8 cm⁻¹ for the 9-atm-O₂-annealed sample. The
frequency further increases to 11 cm⁻¹ for the 150-atm-O₂-annealed
sample. All the peaks shift to smaller frequencies and weaken as the
temperature approaches T_(c) , and no peaks are observed in the normal
state. These changes are common in the other high-T_(c) cuprates and
confirm that the peaks are the plasma of condensed carriers along the c
axis.[3] In the figure, it is striking that the side of the peak
decreases as the temperature decreases below T_(c) for all doping
levels. These changes have also been observed for the other high-T_(c)
cuprates, and are explained by the realization of the sum rule of
carriers between the normal and the superconducting states.[4] For the
optimumly doped sample, the decrease of the absorption in this frequency
region suggests that the plasma peak exists below 5 cm⁻¹.

In the two-fluid model, the low-frequency dielectric function of the
superconductor can be written as ϵ_(c)(ω) = ϵ_(∞) - ω_(p)²/ω² -
ω_(p)²/ω(ω + iγ), where ϵ_(∞), ω_(p)_(ss), ω_(p)_(ss), and γ are the
high-frequency dielectric constant, plasma frequency of the condensed
carrier, plasma frequency of the normal component, and the normal
component’s scattering rate. In this equation, the Drude formula
temporarily expresses the residual conductivity within the
superconducting gap region. Since the Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O_(8 + δ) is optimally
doped to slightly overdoped in this experiment, the normal component
seems to be overdamped, and the effect is negligible for determining the
resonance peak frequency ω_(peak) , which satisfies ϵ_(1c)(ω_(peak)) = −
2 ϵ_(m) . In this case, the London penetration depth λ_(c) can be
obtained from the peak frequency ω_(peak) and ϵ_(∞) by the formula

$$\lambda_{c}\!=\!\frac{c}{\omega_{ps}}\!=\!\frac{c}{\sqrt{\epsilon_{\infty}\!+ 2\,\epsilon_{m}}\omega_{peak}}.$$
(3)

If we use ϵ_(∞) = 12 from the single crystal value of
Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O_(8 + δ) (Ref. [11]), λ_(c) = 77,48, and 35 μm for the
1-atm, 9-atm, and 150-atm-O₂-annealed samples, respectively. These
values are much larger than the in-plane penetration depth λ_(ab)
obtained from the torque measurement,[20] which changes from 2200 to
2000 A as the doping increases. Although the anisotropic parameter γ =
λ_(c)/λ_(ab) decreases from 350 to 175 as the doping increases, the
large γ indicates the strong two dimensionality of the system even in
the overdoped region.

It has been revealed that the Josephson-coupled layer model along the c
axis can well explain the λ_(c) value of many high-T_(c) cuprates, such
as La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄, YBa₂Cu₄O₈ and Nd₂CuO_(4 − x)F_(x).[37] In the
model, λ_(c) is determined by the Jo

Figure 1: Meissner signals of Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O_(8 + δ) with various oxygen
annealing conditions. The measurements were performed under a magnetic
field of 2 G without correction for demagnetization.

Figure 2: Difference in α in the superconducting and normal states for
Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O_(8 + δ) with (a) optimumly annealed with T_(c) = 89 K, (b)
1-atm-O₂-annealed with T_(c) = 85 K, (c) 9-atm-O₂-annealed with T_(c) =
79 K, and (d) 150-atm-O₂-annealed with T_(c) = 71 K

sephson current density J_(c) as
$\lambda_{c}\!=\!\sqrt{\hbar\,c^{2}/8\pi\sigma\,\!J_{c}}$, where d is
the distance between the CuO₂ planes. Since J_(c) is determined by the
normal state tunneling resistance R_(n) = ρ_(c)  d and the
superconducting gap value Δ as J_(c) =[ πΔ(T)/2eR_(n)]tanh[Δ(T)/2kT] in
the BCS model,

$$\lambda_{c}\!=\!\sqrt{\frac{\hbar c^{2}\rho_{c}}{4\,\pi^{2}\Delta}}.$$
(4)

In this case, however, the model seems not to be consistent with the
above λ_(c) value, if we use the ρ_(c) value obtained from the transport
measurement of bulk samples. For the 1-atm-O₂-annealed sample, the value
of ρ_(c) just above T_(c) is about 3Ω cm.²¹ Using this value and
assuming 2Δ = 50 meV obtained from a tunneling junction experiment,²² we
deduce that λ_(c) ≈ 14 μm, which is much shorter than the observed value
of 77 μm. The discrepancy is very large and cannot be explained by the
error of assuming 2Δ. There seems to be two possible explanations for
this discrepancy. One is the oversense of the above J_(c) formula. It
has been reported that the I_(c)R_(N) product, obtained from dc
intrinsic Josephson junction experiments, is much smaller than that
expected from the above J_(c) formula.²³ In the case of the d-wave
superconductivity, the above J_(c) formula will be modified and this may
explain the discrepancy. The other possibility is our lower estimation
of ρ_(c) in Eq. (4). Recently, Suzuki, Karimoto, and Namekawa found that
the ρ_(c) obtained in the small mess for the intrinsic Josephson
junction experiment is more than ten times larger than that obtained by
the conventional transport measurements of bulk samples, and explained
the difference by electrical shorts due to stacking-fault defects in the
bulk samples.²² This can explain the discrepancy.

Although the model cannot quantitatively explain the λ_(c) value, it can
qualitatively explain their doping dependence. In the weak coupling BCS
limit, Eq. (4) becomes $\lambda_{c}\!\propto\!\sqrt{\rho_{c}\,/T_{c}}$.
Since the ρ_(c) just above T_(c) changes from 3 to 1 Ω cm as the doping
increases from 1- to 150-atm-O₂-annealed sample,²¹ the ratio of
λ_(c)(150 atm)/λ_(c)(1 atm) is estimated to be 0.6, which is almost
consistent to the observed value 35 μm/77 μm≈0.5. Basov _et al._ showed
that the λ_(c) values on many cuprates are mainly determined by the
values of ρ_(c) , which change very large compared to the change of
T_(c).⁷ Our result of Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O_(8 + δ) in the slightly overdoped
region also seems to qualitatively support the relation.

The observed anisotropy in the effective mass m_(c)/m_(ab)
=(λ_(c)/λ_(ab))² change from 1.2×10⁵ to 3×10⁴ as the doping increases
from 1- to 150-atm-O₂-annealed sample. These values are comparable to
the resistivity anisotropy just above T_(c) obtained from the transport
measurement,²¹ which changes from 4×10⁴ to 1.6×10⁴. This may indicates
that the interlayer Josephson coupling is determined by the
temperature-dependent normal state interlayer coupling just above T_(c)
. The coincidence between (λ_(c)/λ_(ab))² and ρ_(c)/ρ_(ab) just above
T_(c) has been also observed in La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄.

In summary, we have measured the sphere resonance of
Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O_(8 + δ) samples with various oxygen concentrations down to
5 cm⁻¹ and found the Josephson plasma peaks at 5,8,11 cm⁻¹ for the 1-,
9-, 150-atm-O₂-annealed sample, respectively. No peaks are observed in
this frequency range for the optimally doped sample, which suggests that
the plasma exists below 5 cm⁻¹. The λ_(c)’s of 77 (1 atm), 48 (9 atm),
35 μm (150 atm) were obtained from the peak frequencies. Although these
λ_(c)’s are much larger than the value estimated from the
Josephson-coupled layer model, the doping dependence is qualitatively
explained by the model.

We would like to acknowledge Dr. M. Suzuki for valuable discussions.

## References

* [1] For a review, see R. Kleiner and P. Muller, Physica C **293**, 156
(1997). * [2] M. Tachiki, T. Koyama, and S. Takahashi, Phys. Rev. B
**50**, 7065 (1994). * [3] H. Shibata and T. Yamada, Phys. Rev. B
**54**, 7500 (1996). * [4] H. Shibata and T. Yamada, Physica C **293**,
191 (1997). * [5] S. Uchida, K. Tamasaku, and S. Tajima, Phys. Rev. B
**53**, 14 558 (1996). * [6] C.C. Homes, T. Timusk, R. Liang, D.A. Bonn,
and W.N. Hardy, Phys. Rev. Lett. **71**, 1645 (1993). * [7] D.N. Basov,
T. Timusk, B. Dabrowski, and J.D. Jorgensen, Phys. Rev. B **50**, 3511
(1994). * [8] H. Shibata and T. Yamada, Phys. Rev. B **56**, 14 275
(1997). * [9] A.A. Tsvetkov _et al._, Nature (London) **395**, 360
(1998). * [10] H. Shibata and T. Yamada, Phys. Rev. Lett. **81**, 3519
(1998). * [11] S. Tajima, G.D. Gu, S. Miyamoto, A. Odagawa, and N.
Koshibazuka, Phys. Rev. B **48**, 16 164 (1993). * [12] Y. Matsuda, M.B.
Gaifullin, K. Kumagai, K. Kadowaki, and T. Mochiku, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**75**, 4512 (1995). * [13] O.K.C. Tsui, N.P. Ong, and J.B. Peterson,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **76**, 819 (1996). * [14] W. Walkenhorst, G.
Hechtfischer, S. Schl$\ddot{\rm o}$tzer, R. Kleiner, and P. Muller,
Phys. Rev. B **56**, 8396 (1997). * [15] T. Ichiguchi, Phys. Rev. B
**57**, 638 (1998). * [16] L.N. Bulaevskii, M.P. Maley, and M. Tachiki,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **74**, 801 (1995). * [17] E.B. Sonin, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**79**, 3732 (1997); **81**, 3552 (1998). M.B. Gaifullin, Y. Matsuda,
and L.N. Bulaevskii, _ibid._**81**, 3551 (1998). * [18] T.W. Noh, S.G.
Kaplan, and A.J. Sievers, Phys. Rev. Lett. **62**, 599 (1989). * [19]
T.W. Noh, S.G. Kaplan, and A.J. Sievers, Phys. Rev. B **41**, 307
(1990). * [20] O. Waldmann, F. Steinmeyer, P. Muller, J.J. Neumeier,
F.X. Regi, H. Savary, and J. Schneck, Phys. Rev. B **53**, 11 825
(1996). * [21] T. Watanabe and A. Matsuda, Physica C **263**, 313
(1996). * [22] M. Suzuki, S. Karimoto, and K. Namekawa, J. Phys. Soc.
Jpn. **67**, 732 (1998). * [23] K. Tanabe, Y. Hidaka, S. Karimoto, and
M. Suzuki, Phys. Rev. B **53**, 9348 (1996).
