Hydrogenation of thin Y-Ba-Cu-O films: Electrical transport and
structure properties of YBa2Cu3O7 and YBa2Cu4O8

G. Dortmann, J. Erxmeyer, S. Blasser, J. Steiger, T. Paatsch, and A.
Weidinger

Hahn-Meitner-Institut Berlin GmbH, Bereich Schwerionenphysik, Glienicker
Strasse 100, D-14109 Berlin, Germany

H. Karl and B. Stritzker

Institut fur Physik, Universitat Augsburg, Memminger Strasse 6, D-86159
Augsburg, Germany

###### Abstract

_c_-axis-oriented YBa2Cu3O7 (1:2:3) and YBa2Cu4O8 (1:2:4) thin films
were charged with hydrogen at 463 K and a H2 pressure of 100 mbar. The
hydrogen concentrations and depth profiles were measured with the ¹⁵N
nuclear reaction method. In contrast to earlier studies on bulk samples
where a constant _T_c,const is reported, we find in our 1:2:3 films that
the superconducting transition temperature decreases continuously with
increasing hydrogen concentration and that the transitions remain
relatively sharp, e.g., _T_c,const = 38 K and _T_c = 6.2 K for [H]/cell
= 0.6. The electrical resistivity and Hall-effect measurements in the
normal state indicate that the main effect of hydrogen doping is a
reduction of the charge carrier concentration, whereas the carrier
mobility is not changed significantly. At an average hydrogen
concentration of [H]/cell $\thickapprox$ 2 in both systems, a new
hydride phase is observed, which for 1:2:3 is characterized by a c-axis
expansion of 16

2000 Mathematics Subject Classification: 05C05, switched off and cooled
down to room temperature. The oxygen flux during the cycle was
approximately 15 mJ/min. The films contained both _a_- and _c_-axis
oriented regions and had transition temperatures between 81 and 82.5 K
and transition widths between 1.5 and 2.2 K.

The films were charged with hydrogen from the gas phase at a hydrogen
pressure of 100 mbar and a temperature of 463 K in a small vacuum
chamber. Usually the charging process was interrupted every 2 or 4 h for
the 1:2:3 film and every 10 h for the 1:2:4 film in order to measure the
susceptibility, the electrical resistivity, the Hall constant and x-ray
diffraction diagrams. The concentration [H]/cell >= 2 was reached after
approximately 50 h for the 1:2:3 films and after 135-200 h for the 1:2:4
films. The hydrogen uptake was monitored _in situ_ by four probe
resistivity measurements.

The final hydrogen concentrations and depth profiles in the films were
determined with the 15N method.28 Therefore, the g yield of the nuclear
reaction ¹H(15N,_a_g_g_)12C as a function of the incident ion energy was
measured with a 6”x6” NaI(Tl) scintillator. The 15N method can be used
only at the end of the whole measurement circle, since the ion beam
damages the film and changes its superconducting and normal-state
properties. The concentrations for intermediate charging steps were
derived from the resistivity increase assuming a linear increase in the
normal-state resistivity with hydrogen concentration.

The ac susceptibility was measured with a high-sensitivity setup
especially designed for thin film samples.29 In our arrangement the
films were positioned directly above two planar pickup coils. An
external magnetic ac field of 2 Oe with a frequency of 750 Hz was
applied parallel to the film surface, and the pickup signal was detected
using a lock-in technique. The _T_c,onset is determined by the intersect
of two straight lines adjusted to the curves in the transition region
and in the region just above _T_c. Errors in the determination of
_T_c,onset were within 1-2 K.

The electrical resistivity r_(b) of the films was measured in the van
der Pauw geometry (four probe technique) using pressure contacts at the
four corners of the 10x10-mm2 films. The sample temperature was changed
inside a liquid helium vessel by heating the films from 4 to 300 K with
a rate of 0.3 to 0.5 K/min. The temperature was monitored by a diode
thermometer. The measurements were carried out with a dc current of 100
mA.

The Hall constant R_(H) was measured in a fixed magnetic field of 2 T
normal to the _a_-_b_ plane at several temperatures between 100 and 300
K. The Hall voltage V_(H) was determined using the van der Pauw method
and a dc current of 100 mA. We checked that R_(H) at 100 K remained
linear in B between +2 and -2 T and linear in current between 50 and 150
mA. The error of R_(H) is approximately +-10

The x-ray experiments were carried out on an automatic powder
diffractometer (Siemens D500) equipped with a primary monochromator for
CuK_a_ radiation. The diffractograms were recorded at room temperature
in the angular range between 5deg and 60deg (2_th_).

## III Results and Discussion

Depth profiles of films with different hydrogen concentrations
(corresponding to different charging times) are shown in Fig. 1 [fairly
homogeneous distributions in Fig. 1(a) and less homogeneous ones in Fig.
1(b)]. The film with the higher _H_-concentration in Fig. 1(a) (charging
time: 50 h) was measured first with increasing ion energy (), i.e., from
the film surface to the film/substrate interface, and subsequently with
decreasing ion energy (), i.e., back to the surface. We find a mean
_H_-concentration per unit cell of [H]/cell = 2. The profile measured
with decreasing ion energy is almost the same as with increasing energy
indicating that the 15N method did not change the hydrogen concentration
appreciably. The decline of the profile towards the film surface
indicates a small release of hydrogen from the film surface.

The other profile in Fig. 1(a) (D, average concentration [H]/cell = 0.6)
was obtained for a different film which was charged only for 26 h.
Besides the surface peak, which is due to adsorbates at the surface, an
almost homogeneous profile with only a slight decrease of the H
concentration with film depth is observed. In both films, the H
concentration fall off at the film/substrate interface extends over

Figure 1: Hydrogen depth profiles in Y-Ba-Cu-O films. (a) Examples of
relative homogeneous H depth profiles of 1:2:3 phase films: The film
with the average concentration of [H]/cell = 2 was charged approximately
50 h and measured from the film surface to the film/substrate interface
() and subsequently back to the film surface (). The film with the
average concentration of [H]/cell = 0.6 was charged approximately 26 h;
the surface peak stems from adsorbates at the surface. (b) Examples of
inhomogeneous H distributions of a 1:2:3 phase film () and a 1:2:4 phase
film (D).

a range of 100 nm. This smear out is probably due to a variation of the
film thickness over the ion-beam cross section (_Q_ = 2 mm) and not to a
variation of the concentration in the film or substrate, respectively.

In some films we find quite inhomogeneous depth profiles as shown in
Fig. 1(b) for a 1:2:3 phase film (Th, charging time: 50 h) and a 1:2:4
phase film (D, charging time: 210 h). It is remarkable that the profiles
increase with increasing depth. This behavior excludes the explanation
that the thermal equilibrium in the diffusion process into the sample is
not reached yet. In such a case a decrease of the H concentration with
depth would be expected. The actual profiles found here are probably due
to inhomogeneities in the films. For the 1:2:4 phase film the
inhomogeneities can probably be explained by the growth process of films
prepared by the BaF2 method. Beyond 200-nm thickness, these films begin
to grow in mixed 1:2:3 and 1:2:4 phases.27,30,31 The pure 1:2:4 phase is
presumably confined to regions close to the substrate with an increasing
amount of the 1:2:3 phase closer to the film surface. If we assume that
the H solubility is different in the two phases, an inhomogeneous
profile can be explained. The hydrogen distribution of the 1:2:3 phase
film in Fig. 1(b) is probably also due to film inhomogeneities.

Figure 2 shows the real part χ^(′) and the imaginary part χ^(′′) of the
ac susceptibility for a 1:2:3 phase film with different hydrogen
concentrations. In the uncharged sample (_d_ = 180 nm) the transition to
superconductivity is sharp with an onset of the transition temperature
of _T_c,onset = 88 K and a transition width of D_T_c = 0.8 K. With
increasing hydrogen content, _T_c,onset begins to decrease continuously,
whereby the width of the transition remains relatively sharp. The
observed reduction in the diamagnetic fraction can be explained by
geometric effects due to the finite thickness of the film, since an
increase of the London penetration depth with hydrogen charging (due to
a reduction in the carrier concentration) leads to a larger volume in
which the field can penetrate.

Figure 3 shows the relationship between _T_c,onset and the hydrogen
concentration per unit cell. A decrease of _T_c,onset from 88 to 38 K is
observed for the hydrogen concentration range up to [H]/cell = 0.6,
accompanied by an increase of D_T_c from 0.8 to 6.2 K. The _T_c,onset
variation is small for [H]/cell < 0.2.

The present finding that _T_c,onset decreases continuously with
increasing hydrogen concentration is in marked contrast to earlier
reports,1,4-8 where no change of the onset temperature with hydrogen
charging was reported. In these earlier studies the main effect of the
hydrogen uptake was an increase of the transition width and a reduction
in the diamagnetic fraction. In the light of the present experiment
these findings must be interpreted as a result of inhomogeneous samples
with a variation of transition temperatures in different regions of the
sample. For homogeneously charged samples a fairly unique but reduced
_T_c,onset occurs.

Figure 4 shows the temperature dependence of the electrical resistivity
r for a hydrogen charged 1:2:3 film. With increasing H content both
_T_c(_r_ = 0) and _T_c,onset decrease in accordance with the
susceptibility measurements. Here the transition width increases only
from 1 to 3.2 K and _T_c,onset decreases from 90.5 to 65.5 K. The final
H concentration was determined as [H]/cell = 0.48 and a homogeneous
depth profile was found. The values of _T_c,onset obtained from the
resistivity measurements as a function of the H concentration per unit
cell are shown in Fig. 3 together with the susceptibility results. The
differences in _T_c,onset obtained by the two methods are presumably a
consequence of the different measurement techniques for determining the
_T_c,onset. The resistivity is very sensitive to small remaining
superconducting re

Figure 3: Relationship between _T_c,onset and the hydrogen concentration
per unit cell for a 1:2:3 phase film. Solid circles (Th) were obtained
from ac susceptibility and open circles (O) from resistivity
measurements.

Figure 2: Real part χ^(′) (a) and imaginary part χ^(′′) (b) of the ac
susceptibility (in arbitrary units) as a function of the temperature and
hydrogen concentration for a 1:2:3 phase film. The uncharged film
already contained an initial hydrogen concentration of [H]/cell = 0.08.

gions, whereas the susceptibility is a bulk property. Thus small
inhomogeneities could explain the differences.

The behavior of the normal-state resistivity upon hydrogen charging is
also shown in Fig. 4. The resistivity increases upon H charging. It is
important to note that mainly the slope of ρ versus T increases, whereas
the extrapolated residual resistivity at T = 0 does not change strongly
with increasing hydrogen concentration. This behavior is typical for a
resistivity change due to a reduction of the charge carriers. An
introduction of scattering centers–for an example see the irradiation
studies by Hensel[32]–would lead to a temperature independent increase
of the resistivity and no change in the slope dρ/dT.

Figure 5 shows the measurement of the Hall coefficient [Fig. 5(a)] and
the Hall mobility [Fig. 5(b)]. In Fig. 5(a) the uncharged sample (•)
shows the typical strong linear temperature dependence commonly observed
for YBa₂Cu₃O₇ samples.[33] A discussion of this behavior is beyond the
scope of the present paper. We find that with increasing H content the
value of R_(H)⁻¹ and the slope dR_(H)⁻¹/dT decrease. In contrast, the
reciprocal value of the mobility μ_(H)⁻¹ does not change significantly
with increasing H concentration indicating that the mobility of the
charge carriers is not affected by the H atoms. This suggests that the H
atoms are located at sites where the charge carrier density is low so
that no scattering occurs.

On the other hand, a change of the Hall mobility was observed in a study
of the Hall parameters of Zn-doped YBa₂Cu₃O₇ single crystals by Chien,
Wang, and Ong.[34] Zn is believed to substitute for Cu in the CuO₂
layers and presumably acts as a scattering center. It is therefore
expected that a change in the Hall mobility or equivalently Hall angle
occurs. This is indeed observed in the Zn-doped samples. Instead in our
case, R_(H)⁻¹ shows a strong variation with hydrogen doping, whereas the
Hall mobility is not influenced much. This suggests that the main effect
of H doping on the resistivity is a change in the carrier concentration.

X-ray structure studies upon hydrogen charging have been reported
before.[22]⁻[24] We here present additional data on this subject.
Furthermore, theoretical calculations for the line intensities have been
performed.

Figures 6(a) and 6(b) show the x-ray-diffraction diagrams of the 1:2:3
phase before and after hydrogen charging. The diffractogram in Fig. 6(b)
was obtained for an average hydrogen concentration of [H]/cell=2 [see
upper depth profile in Fig. 1(a)]. The lattice parameter of the hydride
phase is c = 1.365 ± 0.003 nm. At intermediate hydrogen concentrations
Paulus _et al.[24]_ observed a behavior of the diffraction patterns,
which has been explained with a one-dimensional stacking fault sequence
in which layers of the unexpanded 1:2:3 phase (d₁ = 1.175 nm) and layers
of the fully expanded, nonsuperconducting phase (d₂ = 1.365 nm) were
randomly distributed. With increasing hydrogen content the number of
expanded layers grew at the expense of the nonexpanded layers. The final
result after 50 h of hydrogen charging showed a diffractogram such as
the one in Fig. 6(b).

Astonishingly the c-axis lattice parameter of the hydrogenated sample
agrees within the experimental errors with the c axis of the 1:2:4
phase. This leads to the question, whether a new hydride phase is formed
or simply the 1:2:4 phase becomes visible upon hydrogen charging, as
proposed in the literature.[24] We will argue against the hypothesis
that the 1:2:4 phase is observed and instead support the assumption that
a hydride phase is formed.

First, the formation of the 1:2:4 phase out of the 1:2:3 phase would
require a long-range transport of e.g., Cu atoms; this is very unlikely
at the relatively low tempera

Figure 4: Temperature dependence of the electrical resistivity ρ_(ab)
for a 1:2:3 phase film for different hydrogen concentrations. As can be
seen, the transition to the superconducting state shifts to lower
temperature but remains sharp with increasing hydrogen content.

Figure 5: Temperature dependence of (a) the inverse Hall coefficient
R_(H)⁻¹ and (b) the inverse Hall mobility μ_(H)⁻¹ for different hydrogen
concentrations.

ture of 463 K during hydrogen charging. Secondly, one could assume that
1:2:4 layers are randomly embedded in the 1:2:3 matrix; a fraction of 10

We further analyzed the structure of the hydride phase and performed
theoretical calculations for the line intensities with the program lazy
pulverix,[38] which was adapted to our special problem. First the
program was successfully tested to prescribe the YBa₂Cu₃O₇ phase as
shown in Fig. 7(a). For a simulation of the new phase the
BaO-Cu₂’-YCuO₂-BaO blocks (see Fig. 8) were first kept unchanged and the
expansion of the unit cell by 0.19 nm was carried out in the CuO-chain
region. The calculations showed already a fair agreement with the
measured line intensities. A slightly better fit with our experimental
data was achieved by shifting the Ba atoms inside the blocks by 0.012 nm
in the direction of the CuO₂ planes. Figure 7(b) shows the final result
of our theoretical calculations in good agreement with our experiment
[Fig. 6(b)]. Figure 8 shows a simplified picture of this hydride phase;
however, an exact structure refinement has still to be done. Since the
expansion of almost 0.2 nm is relatively large, we propose that this
increase is accompanied by a reorganization of the chain-O atom. The
x-ray data are insensitive to the exact arrangement of the O and H atoms
in the CuO chain area.

Figure 9 shows the x-ray diffraction diagrams of the 1:2:4 phase.[22]
Here, at approximate the same hydrogen concentration of [H]/cell =2, the
unit cell expands only about 1.5

Figure 6: X-ray diffraction diagrams of a _c_-axis-oriented YBa₂Cu₃O₇
film before (a) and after (b) hydrogen charging. The average hydrogen
concentration of the charged film is approximately two H atoms per unit
cell. The (00|_l_) reflections of the lower diffractogram correspond to
c = 1.175 nm and those of the upper to c = 1.365 nm. Also indicated in
this figure are the reflections of the SrTiO₃ substrate.

Figure 7: Calculated intensities of the (00|_l_) reflections for the
YBa₂Cu₃O₇ phase (a) and the proposed structure (see Fig. 8) for
H₂YBa₂Cu₃O₇ (b). In the calculation for the hydride phase the Ba atoms
within the blocks (see Fig. 8) are displaced by 0.012 nm towards the
CuO₂ planes.

uncharged film become visible. The absence of these lines in the 1:2:4
phase is due to the fact that two identical layers with only a lateral
displacement in the b axis make up the unit cell. Thus the appearance of
the odd-_l_ reflections indicates that this symmetry is destroyed during
hydrogen charging. However, the layer structure of the film remains
intact; otherwise no sharp reflections would be observed. The relatively
small increase of the c axis in the 1:2:4 phase compared to the 1:2:3
phase can probably be explained with the strong binding of the chain
oxygen in 1:2:4. This phase does not tend to rearrange or release oxygen
atoms. This fact, on the other hand, supports our hypothesis that in the
1:2:3 phase the chain oxygen O(4) is shifted in the c axis to perform
the large expansion of 16

## IV Conclusion

We have studied the effect of hydrogen charging on the electrical
transport properties and on the crystal structure of thin Y-Ba-Cu-O
films. Most of the earlier work on the hydrogenation of high-_T__c_
superconductors was performed on sintered samples or powders, and often
no clear results were obtained. We think that the problems experienced
with sintered samples and powders are mainly connected with an
inhomogeneous charging, since the hydrogen uptake is strongly influenced
by the grain surfaces and the hydrogen concentration may vary for
different portions of the sample. For epitaxial films, the starting
material for the hydrogenation is much better defined, and therefore a
more homogeneous charging can be expected. In addition, in the present
case we have controlled the homogeneity at least in one direction by
measuring the H-concentration depth profile with the nuclear reaction
method.

The main results of the present experiment, which partially deviate from
the bulk data, are the following.

(1) The measured changes of the electrical transport properties are
consistent with the assumption that hydrogen compensates charge carriers
in Y-Ba-Cu-O and thereby reduces the concentration of the carriers. This
result is already known from earlier studies on hydrogenated Y-Ba-Cu-O
bulk samples by other groups. In addition, we find that the Hall
mobility is not strongly influenced by hydrogen charging; thus the
built-in protons do not act as scattering centers for the electron
transport, probably because the protons are located in the CuO chain
area, whereas the electrical transport occurs in the CuO2 plane region.
Contrary to experiments on bulk samples where no change of T_(c),onset
with H-charging was observed, we find a clear and continuous decrease of
T_(c) with H-concentration as expected for a continuous reduction of the
charge carrier concentration. We interpret the discrepancy of the bulk
data and our finding as an indication of an inhomogeneous H distribution
in the bulk samples, which allows for different T_(c) values, including
the highest ones for almost uncharged portions of the sample.

(2) The second main result concerns the structural changes. A remarkable
large expansion of the _c_-axis lattice parameter (D_c_/_c_ 16

Figure 8: Proposed structure for the H₂YBa2Cu3O2, hydride phase. We
suggest that the BaO-CuO2-Y-CuO2-BaO blocks remain basically unchanged
and that the lattice expansion due to hydrogen uptake occurs in the CuO
chain area. The present data are insensitive to the detailed arrangement
of the O and H atoms in the chain area.

Figure 9: X-ray diffraction diagrams of the uncharged 1:2:4 film (a) and
the film after 135 h of hydrogen charging at 463 K and _μ__H

films with an hydrogen concentration of [H] = 2 per unit cell. The
analysis of the x-ray data for intermediate concentrations [24] implies
that either fully expanded or complete nonexpanded layers are formed for
a H concentration between 0 and 2. From the present data and from these
earlier results we suggest that a stoichiometric hydride phase is formed
for [H]/cell = 2.

(3) For the Y-Ba-Cu-O 1:2:4 phase the results are less clear, since the
available films were not single phase. However, we think the main
effects concerning the charge carrier compensation and the formation of
a hydride phase are the same. A difference is that the lattice expansion
in the hydride phase is much smaller (Δc/c ≈ 1.5%) for the 1:2:4 than
for the 1:2:3 phase.

Finally we would like to emphasize that the present data are not
understandable if one assumes, as is sometimes done in the literature,
that hydrogenation leads to a decomposition and/or amorphization of the
material. In particular, the very clear x-ray data speak strongly
against such a hypothesis. The x-ray data are also not consistent with
the assumption that hydrogen merely removes oxygen from the sample,
since this would not lead to the observed strong c-axis expansion. Thus
in the present case a hydrogenation of Y-Ba-Cu-O was possible and
well-defined structures were formed.

###### Acknowledgements.

We thank B. Mertesacker, J. Bundesmann, and K. Diesner for the help in
the experimental work.

## References

* [1] J. J. Reilly, M. Suenaga, J. R. Johnson, P. Thompson, and A. R.
Moodenbaugh, Phys. Rev. B **36**, 5694 (1987). * [2] C. Y. Yang, X. Q.
Yang, S. M. Heald, J. J. Reilly, T. Skotheim, A. R. Moodenbaugh, and M.
Suenaga, Phys. Rev. B **36**, 8798 (1987). * [3] J. R. Johnson, M.
Suenaga, P. Thompson, and J. J. Reilly, Z. Phys. Chem. Neue Folge
**163**, 721 (1989). * [4] M. Nicolas, J. N. Daou, I. Vedel, P. Vajda,
and J. P. Burger, Solid State Commun. **66**, 1157 (1988). * [5] W. Ye,
T. Takabatake, T. Ekino, T. Tamegai, and H. Fujii, Springer Proc. Phys.
**60**, 299 (1992). * [6] K. Morimoto, W. Ye, S. Orimo, T. Takabatake,
H. Fujii, and T. Hihara, Solid State Commun. **71**, 291 (1989). * [7]
K. Morimoto, T. Takabatake, W. Ye, S. Orimo, T. Hihara, and H. Fujii,
Physica C **159**, 849 (1989). * [8] H. Fujii, H. Kawanaka, W. Ye, S.
Orimo, and H. Fukuba, Jpn. J. Appl. Phys. **27**, L525 (1988). * [9] I.
Natkaniec, A. V. Belushkin, J. Brankowski, E. A. Goremychkin, J. Mayer,
I. L. Sashin, V. K. Fedotov, A. I. Koleshnikov, I. O. Bashkin, V. V.
Sinicyn, and E. G. Ponyatovskii, Physica C **162-164**, 1369 (1989). *
[10] J. Gross and M. Mehring, Physica C **203**, 1 (1992). * [11] D.
Goren, C. Korn, V. Volterra, H. Riesemeir, E. Rossler, H. M. Vieth, and
K. Luders, Phys. Rev. B **46**, 14 142 (1992). * [12] S. D. Goren, C.
Korn, H. Riesemeir, and K. Luders, Phys. Rev. B **47**, 2821 (1993). *
[13] H. Niki, T. Suzuki, S. Tomiyoshi, H. Hentona, M. Omori, T.
Kajitani, T. Kamiyama, and R. Igei, Solid State Commun. **69**, 547
(1989). * [14] H. Niki, H. Hentona, S. Tomiyoshi, M. Omori, T. Kajitani,
T. Suzuki, T. Kamiyama, and R. Igei, Solid State Commun. **75**, 657
(1990). * [15] A. M. Balagurov, G. M. Mironova, L. A. Rudnickij, and V.
Ju. Galkin, Physica C **172**, 331 (1990). * [16] V. V. Sinitsyn, I. O.
Bashkin, E. G. Ponyatovskii, V. M. Prokopenko, R. A. Dilanyan, V. Sh.
Shekhtman, M. A. Nevedomskaya, I. N. Kremenskaya, N. S. Sidorov, R. K.
Nikolaev, and Zh. D. Sokolovskaya, Fiz. Tverd. Tela (Leningrad) **31**,
54 (1989) [Sov. Phys. Solid State **31**, 2056 (1989)]. * [17] Ch.
Niedermayer, H. Gluckler, R. Simon, A. Golnik, M. Rauer, E. Recknagel,
A. Weidinger, J. I. Budnick, W. Paulus, and R. Schollhorn, Phys. Rev. B
**40**, 11 386 (1989). * [18] D. Fruchart, J. L. Soubeyroux, D. Tran
Qui, C. Pique, C. Rillo, F. Lera, V. Orera, J. Flokstra, and D. H. A.
Blank, J. Less-Common Met. **157**, 233 (1990). * [19] H. P. Schollch,
M. Weiser, S. Kalbitzer, and G. Saemann-Ischenko, Jpn. J. Appl. Phys.
**28**, L920 (1989). * [20] H. Gluckler, Ch. Niedermayer, G. Nowitzke,
E. Recknagel, J. Exrmeyer, A. Weidinger, and J. I. Budnick, Europhys.
Lett. **15**, 355 (1991). * [21] J. Ersmeyer, G. Dortmann, J. Steiger,
O. Boebel, and A. Weidinger, J. Less-Common Met. **172-174**, 419
(1991). * [22] G. Dortmann, J. Erxmeyer, and A. Weidinger, Physica C
**180**, 54 (1991). * [23] J. Erxmeyer, A. Weidinger, H. Gluckler, W.
Paulus, R. Schollhorn, W. Zander, J. Schubert, and B. Stritzker, Physica
C **185-189**, 1989 (1991). * [24] W. Paulus, R. Borner, R. Schollhorn,
J. Schubert, W. Zander, J. Erxmeyer, and A. Weidinger, Adv. Mater.
**4**, 416 (1992). * [25] B. Stritzker, J. Schubert, U. Poppe, W.
Zander, U. Krueger, A. Lubig, and Ch. Buchal, J. Less-Common Met.
**164-165**, 279 (1990). * [26] P. M. Mankiewich, J. H. Scofield, W. J.
Skocpol, R. E. Howard, A. H. Dayem, and E. Good, Appl. Phys. Lett.
**51**, 1753 (1987). * [27] M. Moske, S. Dina, G. v. Minnigerode, and K.
Samwer, Physica C **170**, 491 (1990). * [28] D. A. Leich and T. A.
Tombrello, Nucl. Instrum. Methods **108**, 67 (1973). * [29] G. Zibold
and D. Korn, J. Phys. E **12**, 491 (1979). * [30] M. P. Siegal, J. M.
Phillips, R. B. van Dover, T. H. Tiefel, and J. H. Marshall, J. Appl.
Phys. **68**, 6353 (1990). * [31] A. F. Hebard, R. M. Fleming, K. T.
Short, A. E. White, C. E. Rice, A. F. J. Levi, and R. H. Eick, Appl.
Phys. Lett. **55**, 1915 (1989). * [32] B. Hensel, Ph.D. dissertation,
Universitat Erlangen, 1990. * [33] N. P. Ong, in _Physical Properties of
the High Temperature Superconductors_, edited by D. M. Ginsberg (World
Scientific, Singapore, 1990), Vol. 2, p. 459. * [34] T. R. Chien, Z. Z.
Wang, and N. P. Ong, Phys. Rev. Lett. **67**, 2088 (1991). * [35] S.
Hendricks and E. Teller, J. Chem. Phys. **10**, 147 (1942). * [36] D.
Hohlwein and W. Metz, Z. Kristallogr. **139**, 279 (1974). * [37] A.
Kapitulnik, Physica C **153-155**, 520 (1988). * [38] K. Yvon, W.
Jeitschko, and E. Parth, J. Appl. Crystallogr. **10**, 73 (1977).
