Anomalous metallic state above the upper critical field of the
conventional three-dimensional superconductor AgSnSe₂ with strong
intrinsic disorder

Zhi Ren, M. Kriener, A. A. Taskin, Satoshi Sasaki, Kouji Segawa, and
Yoichi Ando

Institute of Scientific and Industrial Research, Osaka University,
Ibaraki, Osaka 567-0047, Japan

Received 6 November 2012; published 28 February 2013

###### Abstract

We report superconducting properties of AgSnSe₂, which is a conventional
type II superconductor in the very dirty limit due to intrinsically
strong electron scatterings. While this material is an isotropic
three-dimensional (3D) superconductor with a not-so-short coherence
length where strong vortex fluctuations are _not_ expected, we found
that the magnetic-field-induced resistive transition at fixed
temperatures becomes increasingly broader toward zero temperature and,
surprisingly, that this broadened transition is taking place largely
_above_ the upper critical field determined thermodynamically from the
specific heat. This result points to the existence of an anomalous
metallic state possibly caused by quantum phase fluctuations in a
strongly disordered 3D superconductor.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.87.064512 PACS number(s): 74.62.En, 74.25.Dw,
74.40.-n, 74.70.Dd

## I Introduction

The interplay between disorder and superconductivity has attracted
sustained interest over the past few decades. In BCS superconductors,
according to Anderson’s theorem,[1] the superconducting critical
temperature $T_{\rm c}$ and the energy gap Δ remain unaffected by the
presence of weak disorder, although in unconventional superconductors
both $T_{\rm c}$ and Δ are strongly suppressed with weak disorder.[2] In
the strongly disordered regime, things become interesting even in BCS
superconductors: In two-dimensional (2D) systems, strong disorder leads
to a universal superconductor-to-insulator transition at a critical
sheet resistance of ∼h/4e²;[3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10] furthermore, it has
been found that, as T tends to zero, there emerges a broad range of
magnetic field where the resistivity remains finite but is much smaller
than the normal-state value, which arguably signifies the importance of
quantum phase fluctuations.[11, 12] In three-dimensional (3D) systems,
strong disorder leads to a disruption of the global superconducting
coherence through reductions in both the superfluid density n_(s) and
pairing interactions, which results in the superconducting order
parameter to spatially fluctuate and gives rise to anomalous electronic
states near the superconductor-to-metal transition.[13, 14]
Experimentally, while the 2D systems have been actively studied in the
past,[5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21] the
role of strong disorder in 3D superconductors is just beginning to be
addressed with a modern viewpoint,[22, 23] which naturally calls for
explorations of suitable materials for such a study.

In this paper, we report that AgSnSe₂, which is a low-T_(c) conventional
superconductor having a cubic structure, offers an ideal playground for
studying the effects of strong disorder in 3D superconductors. We show
that one can synthesize high-quality samples of AgSnSe₂ presenting a
very sharp superconducting transition, which indicates that
morphologically the system is homogeneous; nonetheless, strong electron
scatterings that are intrinsic to this system lead to an extremely type
II superconductivity with the Ginzburg-Landau parameter
$\kappa_{\rm GL}$ of as large as 55. This causes the emergence of a
broad range of magnetic fields where the resistivity remains finite but
is much smaller than the normal-state value as T → 0, which is very much
reminiscent of the behavior observed in disordered 2D
superconductors[11, 12] or in quasi-2D systems like high-T_(c)
cuprates.[24, 25] Furthermore, such an anomalous metallic state is found
in the magnetic field range _above_ the upper critical field determined
thermodynamically from the specific heat. Since this anomalous state can
be easily reached with the magnetic field of 3 T and the microscopic
mechanism of superconductivity is well understood in conventional
superconductors, future studies of AgSnSe₂ would help elucidate the
roles of quantum phase fluctuations, which remain controversial to
date.[11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23]

## II AgSnSe₂ superconductor

The superconductivity in AgSnSe₂ was discovered by Johnston and
Adrian[26] in 1977 as a possible valence-skipping superconductor. In
valence-skipping compounds, the nominal valence state of a constituent
element happens to be the skipped valence for that element. This
characteristic has been of particular interest for superconductivity,
since it may provide a means to realize the so-called negative-U
mechanism to enhance the superconducting transition temperature
$T_{\rm c}$.[27] Well-known examples of such valence-skipping
superconductors are BaBi_(1 − x)Pb_(x)O₃,[28] Ba_(1 − x)K_(x)BiO₃,[29]
and Pb_(1 − x)Ti_(x)Te.[30] In all these compounds, $T_{\rm c}$ is
relatively high for their low carrier density. At the same time, valence
fluctuations lead to significant electron scattering, making those
superconductors highly disordered even though the matrix is homogeneous.

AgSnSe₂ adopts the face-centered cubic structure, in which the cation
sites are randomly occupied by equal amount of Ag and Sn atoms. Since
the nominal valence of Sn is 3+, which coincides with its skipped
valence state, the Sn ions should be separated into 1:1 mixture of Sn²⁺
and Sn⁴⁺, and the chemical formula of this material can be more
appropriately expressed as (Ag¹⁺)(Sn²⁺)_(0.5)(Sn⁴⁺)_(0.5)(Se²⁻)₂, as
evidenced by the measurements of the magnetic susceptibility[26] and the
¹¹⁹Sn Mossbauer spectra.[31] Despite the valence skipping nature and the
carrier density of the order of 10²² cm⁻⁵, its T_(c) of 4.7 K is not
particularly high, which suggests that the negative-U mechanism is not
at work here. Therefore, in this compound one can explore manifestations
of strong disorder associated with valence fluctuations in the context
of conventional superconductivity without being bothered by strong
electron interactions.

## III Experimental

We synthesized high-quality ingots of polycrystalline AgSnSe₂ by using a
two-step method as described in Ref. [26]. First, high-purity shots of
Ag (99.999

The ingot was cut into bar-shaped samples, and the temperature-dependent
magnetization M under various magnetic fields was measured with a
vibrating sample magnetometer (VSM), while the magnetization curves at
fixed temperatures were measured with a commercial SQUID magnetometer
(Quantum Design MPMS-1). The demagnetization effect was corrected for by
considering the slab geometry.[32] The resistivity ρ_(xx) and the Hall
resistivity ρ_(yx) were measured by using a standard six-probe method
where the contacts were made by spot-welding gold wires. The specific
heat c_(p) was measured with a relaxation-time method using Quantum
Design PPMS-9. For consistency reasons, all the data presented here were
measured on exactly the same sample.

## IV Basic characterizations

### Transport properties and superconducting transition

Figure 1(c) shows the temperature dependence of ρ_(xx), which exhibits
only a weak metallic temperature dependence. This is qualitatively
similar to that reported[26] for Ag_(0.76)Sn_(1.24)Se₂ and signifies the
presence of intrinsically strong disorder that does not change much with
the Ag/Sn ratio. As shown in the upper inset of Fig. 1(c), ρ_(yx) is
linear in B and its slope at 5 K corresponds to an electron density
$n_{\rm e}$ of 2.0 × 10²² cm⁻³. The superconducting transition in ρ_(xx)
occurs sharply between 4.5 and 4.6 K, and the magnetic susceptibility
shows the onset $T_{\rm c}$ of 4.55 K, which corresponds to the midpoint
of the resistive transition. The superconducting shielding faction
achieves nearly 100

### Specific heat

Figure 2(a) shows the temperature dependencies of c_(p)/T measured under
0 and 9 T. Application of a 9 T field completely suppresses the
superconductivity, enabling us to determine the phononic contribution
and the normal-state parameters such as the electronic specific-heat
coefficient $\gamma_{\rm r}$ and the effective mass m^(*).[33] Figure
2(b) shows the temperature dependence of the electronic specific heat
$c_{\rm el}/T$ in 0 T obtained by subtracting the phononic contribution
determined from the 9 T data. One can see that $c_{\rm el}/T$ quickly
approaches zero at low T, indicating a fully gapped nature. As for the
precise temperature dependence, although the simple weak-coupling BCS
model (dash-dotted line) fails to describe the $c_{\rm el}/T$ data, a
modified BCS model[34] that allows the coupling constant
$\alpha\equiv\Delta(0)/k_{\rm B}T_{\rm c}$ to vary [Δ(0) is the gap at 0
K] can fit our data well with α = 1.925 (solid line), which is only
slightly larger than the weak-coupling BCS value of 1.764.

Figure 2: (Color online) (a) Temperature dependencies of c_(p)/T
measured in 0 and 9 T. Inset shows c_(p)/T plotted as a function of T²
for the 9-T data, where the superconductivity is completely suppressed;
the solid line presents the best fit to the data using the Debye model
(see Ref. [33]). (b) Temperature dependence of $c_{\rm el}/T$ in 0 T.
The dash-dotted line is the calculated $c_{\rm el}/T$ curve given by the
weak-coupling BCS theory; the solid line is the best fit using a
modified BCS theory with α = 1.925. The horizontal solid line denotes
$\gamma_{\rm r}$.

Figure 1: (Color online) (a) Face-centered cubic structure of AgSnSe₂.
Note that Ag and Sn atoms are randomly distributed in the cation sites.
(b) XRD pattern of the AgSnSe₂ sample. All the diffraction peaks can be
well indexed using a cubic cell with the Fm₃m space group. (c)
Temperature dependence of ρ_(xx) of the AgSnSe₂ sample. Lower inset
shows an enlarged view of the data near the superconducting transition
for ρ_(xx) (right axis) and for the dc magnetic susceptibility measured
upon zero-field-cooling (left axis, shown in terms of the shielding
fraction). Upper inset shows the magnetic-field dependence of ρ_(yx) at
5 K; its slope gives n_(e) = 2.0× 10²² cm⁻³.

Using m^(*) and α obtained from $c_{\rm p}(T)$,[33] the Pip-pard
coherence length ξ₀ can be estimated as
$\xi_{0}=\hbar^{2}(3\pi^{2}n_{e})^{1/3}/(\pi\alpha k_{\rm B}T_{\rm c}m^{*})=181$
nm. This is to be contrasted with the mean-free path
ℓ = ℏ(3π²)^(1/3)/(ρ₀n_(e)²/e²) = 0.9 nm, where ρ₀ is the residual
resistivity. This ℓ is less than 2a and is very short, pointing to the
existence of strong scattering, which is consistent with the valence
fluctuations of Sn. The ratio l/ξ₀ = 0.005 means that AgSnSe₂ is in the
very dirty limit. Yet, $k_{\rm F}\ell$ is estimated to be ∼8, and hence
the system is still a good metal. Note that the estimations of m^(*),
$k_{\rm F}$, ξ₀, and ℓ in this paper are based on the free electron
theory; once the band structure of AgSnSe₂ is known, those estimations
can be made more accurate.

### Critical fields

Figure 3 summarizes the results of the magnetization measurements to
extract the values of the upper and lower critical fields. Figure 3(a)
shows M(B) curves measured after zero-field cooling to various
temperatures. We define B₁ at each temperature as the value at which the
M(B) data deviates from its initial linear behavior, as can be more
clearly seen in the inset of Fig. 3(b). Extrapolation [35] of the
resulting B₁(T) data to T = 0 K yields B₁(0) = 1.18 mT, which, after
correcting for the demagnetization effect,[32] gives the lower critical
field at T = 0 K, $B_{\rm c1}(0)$, of 1.58 mT.

Figure 3(c) shows the temperature dependencies of the magnetization near
the superconducting transition under various magnetic fields. A
paramagnetic background with a temperature-independent susceptibility
χ₀ = 4.2 × 10⁻⁸ emu/g has been subtracted from the data,[36] and what is
plotted is $M_{\rm sc}\equiv M-\chi_{0}B$. A gradual suppression of
superconductivity with increasing magnetic field is evident. For each
magnetic field, we determined the onset temperature of the transition,
$T_{\rm c}^{\rm Mag}(B)$, from the intersection of the linear
extrapolation of the $M_{\rm sc}(T)$ data to the $M_{\rm sc}=0$ line, as
indicated by the arrows in Fig. 3(c). The obtained
$T_{\rm c}^{\rm Mag}(B)$ data shown in Fig. 3(d) give the temperature
dependence of the magnetically determined upper critical field,
$B_{\rm c2}^{\rm Mag}(T)$, which is extrapolated to T = 0 K using the
Werthamer-Helfand-Hohenberg (WHH) theory[37] to yield
$B_{\rm c2}^{\rm Mag}(0)=2.26$ T.

To evaluate the upper critical field at low temperatures in a more
direct way, we measured the superconducting transition in specific heat
under various magnetic fields. Figure 4(a) shows representative data of
$c_{\rm el}/T$ vs T measured in 0, 0.25, 1.0, and 1.5 T, where the
superconducting transition is well resolved. In higher magnetic fields,
the specific-heat anomaly becomes weaker, as shown in Fig. 4(b) for
1.75, 1.9, and 2.0 T; here the transition can still be seen in 1.9 T,
but no clear anomaly is discernible at 2.0 T. These data demonstrate
that the upper critical field is thermodynamically well defined in
AgSnSe₂ at low temperature and that it lies around 2 T near T = 0 K.

To quantitatively analyze the superconducting transition in the
specific-heat data, for each magnetic field we determined three
characteristic temperatures: onset of the transition (below

Figure 4: (Color online) (a) and (b) Superconducting transition measured
in the temperature dependence of the specific heat under various
magnetic fields. (c) $B_{\rm c2}^{\rm C2}$ vs T phase diagram; the solid
line is a WHH fit to the data. For comparison, $B_{\rm c2}^{\rm Mag}(T)$
and its WHH fitting are shown with filled squares and a dashed line,
respectively.

Figure 3: (Color online) (a) M(B) curves measured after zero-field
cooling to various temperatures. The dashed line marks the initial
linear behavior. (b) Plot of B₁ vs T; the solid line is a fit to the
data using the local dirty limit formula. The $B_{\rm c1}(0)$ obtained
after the demagnetization correction is marked by an arrow. Inset shows
the B dependencies of $\Delta M\equiv M-M_{\rm im}$, where $M_{\rm im}$
denotes the initial Meissner contribution; the data are shifted
vertically for clarity. The determined B₁ value for each temperature is
shown by arrows. (c) Temperature dependencies of
$M_{\rm sc}=M-\chi_{0}B$ under various magnetic fields. The
$T_{\rm c}^{\rm Mag}(B)$ values are indicated by arrows. (d)
$B_{\rm c2}^{\rm Mag}$ vs T phase diagram; the solid line is a WHH fit
to the data.

which the specific heat grows), midpoint of the transition, and the peak
in c_(p)(T). It is useful to note that the transition width ΔT_(c)^(Cp),
which we define by the difference between the onset and peak
temperatures, remains reasonably narrow with ΔT_(c)^(Cp) ≲ 0.3 K at all
fields. We choose to use the midpoint of the specific-heat transition
for defining the transition temperature T_(c)^(Cp)(B) for each magnetic
field, which in turn gives the temperature dependence of the upper
critical field B_(c2)^(Cp)(T).

The solid line in Fig. 4(c) is the fitting of the WHH theory to the
B_(c2)^(Cp)(T) data, which gives the T = 0 K value B_(c2)^(Cp)(0) of
2.11 T. For comparison, we reproduced in Fig. 4(c) the
$B_{c2}^{\rm{Mag}}(T)$ data obtained from the magnetization
measurements. The difference in the WHH fittings for the specific-heat
and magnetization data is only 7

### Superconducting parameters

Now we estimate various superconducting parameters of AgSnSe₂ by using
B_(c2)^(Cp)(0) as the zero-temperature upper critical field B_(c2)(0).
Note that since AgSnSe₂ has cubic symmetry, no anisotropy is expected.
The Ginzburg-Landau (GL) coherence length $\xi_{\rm GL}(0)$ is estimated
as $\xi_{\rm GL}(0)=\sqrt{\Phi_{0}/2\pi\,B_{c2}(0)}=12.5$ nm, where
Φ₀ = 2.07 × 10⁻¹⁵ Wb is the flux quantum. Alternatively, one may also
estimate $\xi_{\rm GL}$ from $\xi_{\rm GL}(0)\simeq$$\sqrt{\xi_{0}\ell}$
for dirty superconductors, which yields $\xi_{\rm GL}\simeq 12.7$ nm.
The consistency is gratifying. The
equation[38]$B_{c1}(0)/B_{c2}(0)=(\ln\kappa_{\rm GL}+0.5)/(2\kappa_{\rm GL}^{2})$
gives the GL parameter $\kappa_{\rm GL}=55$, which in turn allows us to
calculate the effective penetration depth $\lambda_{\rm eff}=685$ nm
through
$B_{c1}(0)=(\Phi_{0}/4\pi\,\lambda_{\rm eff}^{2})(\ln\kappa_{\rm GL}+0.5)$.
This gives the London penetration depth
$\lambda_{\rm L}\simeq\lambda_{\rm eff}\sqrt{\ell/\xi_{0}}=48.3$ nm.

Since AgSnSe₂ is a very dirty superconductor, the superfluid density
n_(s) is expected to be reduced by a factor of ∼ℓ/ξ₀.[39] Indeed, the
calculation of n_(s) based on
$n_{s}=m^{*}/(\mu_{0}e^{2}\lambda_{\rm eff}^{2})$ yields
n_(s) ≈ 9 × 10¹⁹ cm⁻³, which is close to the estimation of
$n_{s}\approx n_{\rm e}(\ell/\xi_{0})=1\times 10^{20}$ cm⁻³,
reconfirming the applicability of the BCS theory to AgSnSe₂ and the
soundness of our B_(c1) measurements, which can be adversely affected by
flux pinning.

## V Anomalous metallic state

### Resistive transition in magnetic fields

Despite the conventional nature of the superconductivity in AgSnSe₂,
nontrivial physics becomes evident when one looks at the
magnetic-field-induced resistive transition at fixed temperatures (Fig.
5). One can easily see that the resistive transition is very sharp at
temperatures close to T_(c), but it becomes increasingly broader at
lower temperatures. We determined the values of the magnetic field at
which ρ_(xx) recovers a certain percentage of the normal-state
resistivity $\rho_{\rm N}$ for each temperature, and denote them
B_(10%)(T), B_(50%)(T), etc. We also determined the irreversibility
field $B_{\rm irr}(T)$ to mark the onset of a finite resistivity within
our sensitivity limit, which corresponds to 0.15

Usually either B_(50%)(T) or B_(50%)(T) are considered to give a measure
of the upper critical field.[40, 41] In the present case, for
temperatures down to T/T_(c) ∼ 1/2, B_(50%)(T) agrees reasonably well
with the thermodynamically determined B_(c2), but at lower temperatures
the resistive transition occurs largely above B_(c2). This means that at
low temperature, there is a wide range of magnetic field above B_(c2)
where the resistivity is finite but is noticeably smaller than
$\rho_{\rm N}$. The existence of such an anomalous metallic state above
B_(c2) has never been documented for a conventional 3D superconductor,
and this is the main finding of the present work. Note that the Pauli
paramagnetic limit is estimated to be 8.4 T, which is well above the
anomalous metallic regime observed here.

Similar broadening of the magnetic-field-induced resistive transition at
low temperatures has been observed in high-temperature superconductors
such as Bi₂Sr₂CuO_(y),[24] Tl₂Ba₂CuO_(y),[25] MgB₂,[42] and
Ba_(1 − x)K_(x)BiO₃.[43] This phenomenon is generally believed to be
caused by enhanced vortex fluctuations and the resulting vortex liquid
phase due to a short coherence length that is inherent to
high-temperature superconductors. In light of this common belief, the
present observation in AgSnSe₂ is striking. Here the coherence length

Figure 6: (Color online) Plots of $B_{\rm irr}$, B_(10%), B_(50%), and
B_(90%) obtained from the resistive transition data, together with
B_(c2) determined thermodynamically from specific-heat measurements
(solid line).

Figure 5: (Color online) Magnetic-field-induced resistive transition
measured at various temperatures. The level of ρ_(xx) that is used for
determining B_(10%), B_(50%), and B_(90%) are indicated by dashed lines.

is not so short, 12.1 nm, and the system is 3D, both of which work
against strong vortex fluctuations. Therefore, our result calls for a
reinterpretation of the low-temperature broadening of the
magnetic-field-induced resistive transition.

### Quantum phase fluctuations

To understand the above results, an interesting possibility is the
scenario proposed by Spivak, Oreto, and Kivelson [13] that the strong
disorder leads to formations of superconducting "puddles" that are
Josephson coupled to each other, and quantum fluctuations of the
relative phase between those puddles give rise to a broad range of
magnetic fields where the resistivity remains finite and smaller than
$\rho_{\rm N}$ as T → 0. If this is indeed the case, our data give
evidence for the important role of quantum phase fluctuations in
disordered 3D conventional superconductors. Since the superconductivity
mechanism is well understood here (as opposed to the case of
high-temperature superconductors) and the required magnetic field to
access the quantum fluctuation regime is low (only ∼3 T), AgSnSe₂
provides a convenient platform for studying the role of quantum
fluctuations in the magnetic-field-induced superconductor-to-metal
transition.

Another anomalous behavior observed here is that at low temperatures,
not only B_(90%) but also B_(int) shows little tendency toward
saturation. A similar behavior was previously observed in strongly
disordered amorphous superconductors [41] and was discussed to be due to
the weak-localization effect. [44] However, the discrepancy between the
resistive transition and the thermodynamically determined B_(c2) makes
the conclusion of those old studies [41, 44] questionable. Hence, the
physical meaning of the resistive transition in disordered
superconductors had better be reconsidered by taking into account the
important role of quantum phase fluctuations.

## VI Summary

We have fully characterized the AgSnSe₂ superconductor where its
valence-skipping nature leads to intrinsically strong electron
scattering without any obvious enhancement of T_(c). At low temperature,
we observed an anomalous broadening of the magnetic-field-induced
resistive transition, which occurs largely above the
thermodynamically-determined B_(c2). This means the existence of an
anomalous metallic state above B_(c2) where quantum phase fluctuations
associated with a magnetic-field-induced superconductor-to-metal
transition are likely to be playing an important role. This makes
AgSnSe₂ a useful platform for studying the role of quantum fluctuations
in 3D disordered superconductors.

###### Acknowledgements.

We thank S. A. Kivelson for illuminating discussions. This work was
supported by JSPS (NEXT Program and KAKENHI 24740237), MEXT (Innovative
Area "Topological Quantum Phenomena" KAKENHI 22103004), and AFOSR (AOARD
124038).

## References

* [1] P. W. Anderson, J. Phys. Chem. Solids **11**, 26 (1959). * [2] R.
Balian and N. R. Werthamer, Phys. Rev. **131**, 1553 (1963). * [3] M. P.
A. Fisher, Phys. Rev. Lett. **65**, 923 (1990). * [4] D. B. Haviland, Y.
Liu, and A. M. Goldman, Phys. Rev. Lett. **62**, 2180 (1989). * [5] A.
F. Hebard and M. A. Paalanen, Phys. Rev. Lett. **65**, 927 (1990). * [6]
M. A. Paalanen, A. F. Hebard, and R. R. Ruel, Phys. Rev. Lett. **69**,
1604 (1992). * [7] S. Tanda, S. Ohzeki, and T. Nakayama, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **69**, 530 (1992). * [8] M. P. A. Fisher and D. H. Lee, Phys.
Rev. B **39**, 2756 (1989). * [9] T. Pang, Phys. Rev. Lett. **62**, 2176
(1989). * [10] M. P. A. Fisher, G. Grinstein, and S. M. Girvin, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **64**, 587 (1990). * [11] N. Mason and A. Kapitulnik, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **82**, 5341 (1999). * [12] M. A. Steiner, G. Boebinger, and
A. Kapitulnik, Phys. Rev. Lett. **94**, 107008 (2005). * [13] B. Spivak,
P. Oreto, and S. A. Kivelson, Phys. Rev. B **77**, 214523 (2008). * [14]
M. V. Feigel’man, L. B. Ioffe, V. E. Kravtsov, and E. Cuevas, Ann. Phys.
(NY) **325**, 1390 (2010). * [15] J. M. Valles, Jr., R. C. Dynes, and J.
P. Garno, Phys. Rev. Lett. **69**, 3567 (1992). * [16] Y. Liu, D. B.
Haviland, B. Nease, and A. M. Goldman, Phys. Rev. B **47**, 5931
(1993). * [17] S. Doniach, J. Phys. Chem. Solids **56**, 1601 (1995). *
[18] G. Sambandamurthy, L. W. Engel, A. Johansson, and D. Shahar, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **92**, 107005 (2004). * [19] Y. Dubi, Y. Meir, and Y.
Avishai, Nature (London) **449**, 876 (2007). * [20] M. D. Stewart, Jr.,
A. J. Yin, J. M. Xu, and J. M. Valles, Jr., Science **318**, 1273
(2007). * [21] B. Sacepe, T. Dubouchet, C. Chapelier, M. Sanquer, M.
Ovadia, D. Shahar, M. Feigel’man, and L. Ioffe, Nat. Phys. **7**, 239
(2011). * [22] M. Mondal, S. Kumar, M. Chand, A. Kamlapure, G. Saraswat,
G. Seibold, L. Benfatto, and P. Raychaudhuri, Phys. Rev. Lett. **107**,
217003 (2011). * [23] M. Chand, G. Saraswat, A. Kamlapure, M. Mondal, S.
Kumar, J. Jesudasan, V. Bagwe, L. Benfatto, V. Tripathi, and P.
Raychaudhuri, Phys. Rev. B **85**, 014508 (2012). * [24] M. S. Osofsky,
R. J. Soulen, Jr., S. A. Wolf, J. M. Broto, H. Rakoto, J. C. Ousset, G.
Coffe, S. Askenazy, P. Pari, I. Bozovic, J. N. Eckstein, and G. F.
Virshup, Phys. Rev. Lett. **71**, 2315 (1993). * [25] A. P. Mackenzie,
S. R. Julian, G. G. Lonzarich, A. Carrington, S. D. Hughes, R. S. Liu,
and D. C. Sinclair, Phys. Rev. Lett. **71**, 1238 (1993) * [26] D. C.
Johnston and H. Adrian, J. Phys. Chem. Solids **38**, 355 (1977). * [27]
C. M. Varma, Phys. Rev. Lett. **61**, 2713 (1988). * [28] A. W. Sleight,
J. L. Gillson, and P. E. Bierstedt, Solid State Commun. **17**, 27
(1975). * [29] R. J. Cava, B. Balog, J. J. Krajewski, R. Farrow, L. W.
Rupp, Jr, A. E. White, K. Short, W. F. Peck, and T. Kometani, Nature
(London) **332**, 814 (1988). * [30] S. A. Nemov and Y. I. Ravich, Phys.
Usp. **41**, 735 (1998). * [31] F. S. Nasredinov, S. A. Nemov, V. F.
Masterov, and P. P. Seregin, Phys. Solid State **41**, 1741 (1999). *
[32] E. H. Brandt, Phys. Rev. B **60**, 11939 (1999).

33) As can be seen in the inset of Fig. 2a), the 9 T data below 5 K can
be well described by the Debye model
$c_{p}/T=\gamma_{\rm h}+A_{3}T^{2}+A_{3}T^{4}$, where $\gamma_{\rm h}$
is the normal-state electronic specific-heat coefficient and A_(i)
(i = 3, 5) denote the coefficients of the phononic contribution. The
obtained parameters are $\gamma_{\rm h}=3.5$ mJ/molK², A₃ = 0.7
mJ/molK⁴, and A₅ = 0.009 mJ/molK⁵. The A₃ value gives the Debye
temperature $\Theta_{\rm D}=220$ K via
$\Theta_{\rm D}=(12\pi^{4}nR/5A_{3})^{1/3}$ with n = 4 and R = 8.314
J/molK. In addition, if one assumes a single spherical Fermi surface,
the effective mass m^(*) can be estimated as
$m^{*}=3\hbar^{2}\gamma_{\rm h}/(V_{\rm max}k_{\rm B}^{2}(3\pi^{2}n_{e})^{1/3} )\simeq 1.5m_{e}$,
where $V_{\rm max}=55$ cm³/mol and m_(e) is the free electron mass. *
Padamsee, J. E. Neighbor, and C. A. Shiffman, J. Low Temp. Phys. **12**,
387 (1973). * 35) We fit the B₁(T) curve with
$B_{1}\propto 1/\lambda_{\rm eff}^{2}\propto[\Delta(T)/\Delta(0)]$
tanh$(\Delta(T)/2k_{\rm B}T)$ for the local dirty limit,[39] where
$\lambda_{\rm eff}$ is the effective penetration depth. * 36) The
positive χ₀ is probably due to the presence of a very small amount of
paramagnetic impurities. * 37) N. R. Werthamer, E. Helfand, and P. C.
Hohenberg, Phys. Rev. B **147**, 295 (1966). * 38) C.-R. Hu, Phys. Rev.
B **6**, 1756 (1972). * 39) M. Tinkham, _Introduction to
Superconductivity_ (McGraw-Hill, New York, 1975). * 40) Y. Ando, G. S.
Boebinger, A. Passner, L. F. Schneemeyer, T. Kimura, M. Okuya, S.
Watauchi, J. Shimoyama, K. Kishio, K. Tamasaku, N. Ichikawa, and S.
Uchida, Phys. Rev. B **60**, 12475 (1999). * 41) M. Tenbover, W. L.
Johnson, and C. C. Tsuei, Solid State Commun. **38**, 53 (1981). * 42)
P. Szabo, P. Samuely, A. G. M. Jansen, T. Klein, J. Marcus, D. Fruchart,
and S. Miraglia, Physics C **369**, 250 (2002). * 43) P. Samuely, P.
Szabo, T. Klein, A. G. M. Jansen, J. Marcus, C. Escribe-Filippini, and
P. Wyder, Europhys. Lett. **41**, 207 (1998). * 44) L. Coffey, K. Levin,
and K. A. Muttalib, Phys. Rev. B **32**, 4382 (1985).
