# (Cu0.5C0.5) Ba2Ca_m-1 Cu_m_O_x for m = 3 and 4 under hydrostatic
pressure

Y. Cao, Z. L. Du, Y. Y. Xue, and C. W. Chu

Texas Center for Superconductivity and Department of Physics, University
of Houston, Houston, Texas 77204-5932

Received 8 September 1999

###### Abstract

The hydrostatic pressure effects on the superconducting transition
temperatures (_Tc_’s) of the oxycarbonate cuprates (Cu0.5C0.5)Ba2Ca_m-1
Cu_m_O_x [ (Cu,C)-12(_m_ - 1)_m_], have been determined for m = 3 and 4
with different dopings of _x_’s. We found that, similar to YBa2Cu3O_x_,
_dTc_/_dP_ depends strongly on x for (Cu,C)-1223 and increases from -0.7
to +- 1.2 K/GPa as x decreases and the compound changes from overdoped
to nearly optimally doped, consistent with the prediction of the
phenomenological model on the pressure effect on _Tc_. In contrast to
the prediction, _dTc_/_dP_ depends only slightly on x for (Cu,C)-1234
and decreases from 0.75 to 0.6 K/GPa as x decreases from nearly
optimally doped to underdoped. The _dTc_/_dP_ difference is attributed
to the possible different electronic contribution of the CuO chains in
the two compounds, as implied by the distinct temperature dependences of
their thermoelectric power.

## I Introduction

While a commonly accepted microscopic mechanism responsible for the
occurrence of high-temperature superconductivity (HTS) is still elusive,
several general relationships among various physical parameters of the
cuprate high-temperature superconductors (HTS’s) have been reported. For
instance, the superconducting temperature (_Tc_) was found [1] to depend
on the carrier number per CuO2 (_n_) parabolically, i.e.,
T_(c)(n) = T_(c)^(max)[1 − a(n − n₀)²], where T_(c) = T_(c)^(max) when
the compound is optimally doped with n = n0   0.16 hole/CuO2, and a =
82.6 which determines the superconducting doping range. HTS’s with n <
n0 are known as underdoped, and those with n > n0 overdoped. A
correlation of n with the thermoelectric power (TEP) measured near room
temperature was also observed, [2] providing a simple secondary method
to determine the doping state of a HTS.

High pressure can provide an effective test for the generality of the
above correlation [1] without introducing chemical complexities to the
compound system under investigation. Several versions of the
phenomenological model [3] have been advanced to account for the n
dependence of the pressure effect on _Tc_ (_dTc_/_dP_) in terms of an n
shift due to a pressure-induced charge-transfer based on the parabolic
_Tc_(_n_) relation described above. According to one version,
dT_(c)/dP = c − 2aT_(c)^(max)(n − n₀)dn/dP, with c being a positive
constant, and hence decreases from positive to negative as n increases
from the underdoped to the heavily overdoped region. Indeed, this was
observed in the YBa2Cu3O_x_ (YBCO) system. [4] However, this is no
longer true for the La2-Sr2CuO4 (LSCO) and the HgBa2Ca_m-1 Cu_m_O2m+- 2
+- [ Hg-12(_m_ - 1)_m_] compound systems, strongly suggesting that the
pressure affects _Tc_ through parameters other than n. [5, 6, 7] It is
interesting to note that the two systems also exhibit only a negligible
pressure effect on n, as evident from the Hall and TEP measurements
under pressures. [7, 8] Recently, it has been proposed [9] that the
pressure-induced charge-transfer in cuprate HTS’s is determined by the
existence and the filling of oxygen sites of the CuO-chains in the
compounds, such as YBCO, where the CuO2-chain band crosses the Fermi
surface and contributes to the density of states.

The (Cu0.5C0.5)Ba2Ca_m-1 Cu_m_O_x [ (Cu,C)-12(_m_ - 1)_m_] compound
system [10] has been shown to exhibit the basic crystal structure of the
Hg-12(_m_ - 1)_m_ but retains certain features of the CuO chains that
exist in YBa2Cu3O_x_. We have therefore decided to determine the n
dependences of _dTc_/_dP_ of (Cu,C)-12(_m_ - 1)_m_ for m = 3 and 4, and
to compare them with predictions of the phenomenological model. We found
that the _dTc_/_dP_ of (Cu,C)-1223 depends strongly on n in a fashion
similar to that of YBCO, increasing from -0.7 K/GPa to + 1.2 K/GPa when
the oxygen content x decreases from overdoped to nearly optimally doped,
as qualitatively predicted by the phenomenological model. However, the
_dTc_/_dP_ of (Cu,C)-1234 decreases slightly as x decreases from nearly
optimally doped to underdoped. The difference observed in _dTc_/_dP_
between the two compounds is attributed to the possible difference in
their CuO-chain electronic contributions. This is consistent with the
different temperature dependences of TEP displayed by the two compounds.

## II Experimental

Powders of cation oxides BaO, CaO, and CuO were thoroughly mixed with
cation ratios of Ba:Ca:Cu = 2:1.5:3.5 and 2:2.5:4.5, for (Cu,C)-1223 and
-1234, respectively. The mixed powders were calcined in an alumina
crucible at 650-900 degC for 40-48 h in flowing O2 with several
intermittent grindings. CaCO3 was later added to the calcined oxide
powders as the carbon source to make the precursors of the
stoichiometric (Cu0.5C0.5)Ba2Ca_m_Cu_O_[ (Cu,C)-1223] and
(Cu0.5C0.5)Ba2Ca_m_Cu_O_[ (Cu,C)-1224]. These precursors were then mixed
with appropriate amounts of oxidizing agent Ag2O2, pressed into pellets,
wrapped in Au foil and heated in a high-pressure cell inside a
multianvil Walker module from Rockland Research under 5-6 GPa at
1000-1100 degC for 1-4 h before they were furnace quenched to room
temperature. The furnace used was made of Ca-doped LaCrO3 and the
pressure medium employed was MgO. The pressure was determined using the
load vs pressure curve provided by Rockland Research, and the tempera
ture by a D-type thermocouple (W + 3

The structure of the sample was characterized by x-ray diffraction (XRD)
using a Rigaku D-MAX/B-III powder diffractometer. The T_(c) at ambient
was measured both resistively, by the four-probe method using a Linear
Research LR-400 bridge, and magnetically, using a quantum design
superconducting quantum interference device (SQUID) magnetometer. It is
defined as the temperature where the resistivity is linearly
extrapolated to zero from the main transition or where the magnetic
transition is halfway completed. The T_(c)’s so defined agree well with
one another. Under pressure, the T_(c) was determined resistively. The
hydrostatic pressure environment was generated at room temperature
inside a Te-flon cell housed in a Be-Cu high-pressure clamp,[11] using
3M fluorinert as the pressure medium. The pressure at low temperature
was measured with a superconducting Pb monomer, which was situated next
to the sample inside the pressure cell, and the temperature by a
chromel-alumel thermocouple above 10 K and by a Germanium thermometer
below 10 K.

## III Results and Discussion

High quality (Cu,C)-1223 and -1234 samples were successfully
synthesized. The XRD patterns of the samples are shown in Figs. 1(a) and
1(b), displaying a single phase in each of the samples with less than 5

The T_(c)’s are ∼ 67 K and ∼ 115 K, respectively, for the as-synthesized
(Cu,C)-1223 and -1234 at ambient. A fairly broad range of doping and
thus T_(c) has been achieved in these samples by removing oxygen from
the as-synthesized samples _via_ annealing in various atmospheres at
different temperatures. Sequential annealing on the same sample to
achieve different doping states was adopted to reduce possible effects
on T_(c) or dT_(c)/dP arising from possible differences in different
samples. No effort of ours succeeded in increasing the O content above
that of either of the as-synthesized samples by charging O2 at ∼ 300
^(∘)C and 150

Figure 1: XRD patterns of (Cu,C)-1223 (a) and -1234 (b), respectively.

bar, the highest gas pressure used. This can be understood, since all
samples were prepared under a partial O pressure of about 5-6 GPa. We
estimated n from the TEP measurements according to the empirical
correlation, and verified by the ratio of $T_{c}/T_{c}^{\rm{can}}$.2 The
doping was found to vary from n ∼ 0.233 hole/CuO₂ for the as-synthesized
(Cu,C)-1223 to ∼ 0.173 after annealing; and from n ∼ 0.16 hole/CuO₂ for
the as-synthesized (Cu,C)-1234 to ∼ 0.12 after annealing. This suggests
that the as-synthesized (Cu,C)-1223 is overdoped and (Cu,C)-1234 is
nearly optimally doped, based on an optimal doping n0 ∼ 0.16 hole/CuO₂.2
At the same time, (Cu,C)-1223 remains slightly overdoped while
(Cu,C)-1234 becomes underdoped after the annealing. The dc magnetic
susceptibility (_x_) measured in 10 Oe in the field-cooled mode is shown
in Figs. 2(a) and 2(b) for (Cu,C)-1223 and -1234, respectively. For
(Cu,C)-1223, the T_(c) increases continuously from ∼ 67 to ∼ 118 K as
the temperature of annealing in Ar increases to 550 ^(∘)C. The size of
the Meissner effect also increases as the T_(c) increases for reasons
not yet known. On the other hand, the T_(c) of (Cu,C)-1234 decreases
from ∼ 115 to ∼ 99 K as the annealing temperature increases to 600 ^(∘)C
in Ar. A 20

We have measured the T_(c) of the same (Cu,C)-1223 sample, but at four
different doping states, and that of the same (Cu,C)-1234 sample, but at
two different doping states, after sequential annealing. Typical
resistance (_R_) data as a function of temperature at different
pressures are shown in Figs. 3(a) and 3(b) for the as-synthesized
(Cu,C)-1223 and (Cu,C)-1223 annealed in Ar at 550 ^(∘)C, respectively.
Slight

Figure 4: T_(c) vs P for (Cu,C)-1223 (a) and -1234 (b) with different
dopings. The number represents the sequential order of the experimental
run.

Figure 3: R vs T for (Cu,C)-1223 as-synthesized (a) and after annealing
at 550 ^(∘)C for 24 h (b).

sample degradation occurs after annealing as evidenced by the appearance
of a long R tail below T_(c) . The superconducting transition is clearly
shifted to lower temperatures for the as-synthesized (Cu,C)-1223 but to
higher temperatures for the annealed one by pressures. The effects of
pressure on the _T__c_’s of both samples with different dopings are
summarized in Figs. 4(a) and 4(b). T_(c) appears to vary with pressure
linearly for all samples within the pressure-range investigated. It
should be noted that the pressure effect on T_(c) is reversible
immediately after the reduction of pressure, as also evidenced in Figs.
4(a) and 4(b). The rates of T_(c) change induced by pressure,
_dT__c_/_dP_’s, are -0.7, -0.3, 0.9, and 1.2 K/GPa for (Cu,C)-1223
as-synthesized (A), and for those annealed in Ar at 350 (B), 450 (C),
and 550 ^(∘)C (D), respectively. The values of _dT__c_/_dP_ are 0.65 and
0.75 K/GPa for (Cu,C)-1234 as-synthesized (E) and annealed in Ar at 600
^(∘)C (F), respectively. The results are summarized in Fig. 5, i.e.,
_dT__c_/_dP_ decreases linearly with x for (Cu,C)-1223, whereas it
increases slightly with x for (Cu,C)-1234.

It has been shown that O-ordering affects the T_(c) of cuprate HTS’s and
such ordering can take place even at room temperature.12 The effect is
more prominent as the sample becomes more underdoped. Fortunately, such
ordering does not occur in YBCO immediately after the change in
pressure, but only takes place with a long relaxation time of many
hours, and the relaxation time increases rapidly with pressure.13 For
instance, the T_(c) of a heavily underdoped YBCO increases from  13.2 K
at ambient to  15.6 K measured immediately after the application of 0.79
GPa, and grows to  22.4 K after consecutive annealings at 298 K for a
total of 34 h. However, the complete release of the pressure at 53 K
only reduces the T_(c) to 21.2 K, and it takes annealing at 298 K for 87
h to restore the T_(c) to its initial value of 13.2 K. It was therefore
pointed out the important contribution of O ordering to the _dT__c_/_dP_
measured. Indeed, O ordering can complicate the interpretation of the
_dT__c_/_dP_ data, since the sample examined can be at different
O-ordering states which depend on the annealing time at or above room
temperature after the application of pressure at room temperature. In
our experiment, after each pressure step before the T_(c) was measured,
the samples were held at room temperature for less than 15 min, which is
very short compared to the long effective relaxation time of  48 h at
0.79 GPa and  6.5 h at 5 GPa for YBCO.13 Additionally, T_(c) was
observed to return immediately on the reduction of pressure at room
temperature to the interpolated value as shown in Figs. 4(a) and 4(b)
for the overdoped (Cu,C)-1223 and the underdoped (Cu,C)-1234. All these
suggest that the effect of possible pressure-induced O ordering at room
temperature on _dT__c_/_dP_ was negligible in the present experiment and
our measurements were carried out in samples with the same O-ordering
state. We therefore go ahead to compare the _dT__c_/_dP_ results with
predictions by the phenomenological model.3,4

Figure 6: TEP vs T for (Cu,C)-1223 (a) and -1234 (b): TEP increases with
decreasing doping: numbers represent the sequential annealing order,
upon oxygen removal.

Figure 5: _dT__c_/_dP_ vs n for (Cu,C)-1223 and -1234.

As pointed out earlier, dT_(c)/dP is expected to decrease linearly from
positive to negative as n increases, according to the phenomenological
model.[3, 44] Although (Cu,C)-1223 has the same structure as Hg-1223,
its dT_(c)/dP decreases linearly with n as predicted, in contrast to
that of the latter. Recent experiments[9] show that the CuO-chains in
the HTS compound provide the avenue for pressure to induce an n change
and the authors suggest that the agreement between the model prediction
and experimental observation on the n dependence of dT_(c)/dP is
determined by the existence of these CuO₂ chains. Published data[10]
indeed show that (Cu,C)-1223 possesses the CuO-chain. Unfortunately, in
spite of the similar structure reported, (Cu,C)-1234 displays a
dT_(c)/dP that increases with n, in disagreement with the model
prediction.

It has been observed that cuprate HTS’s with CuO-chains, such as
YBCO,[14] show a TEP with a smaller temperature dependence and a smaller
295 K value than those without, such as HBCCO at the same doping
levels.[15] This has been ascribed to the extra contribution from the
CuO-chain. We decided to measure the temperature dependences of the TEP
of the two compounds at different dopings and found that they are very
different. As shown in Figs. 6(a) and 6(b), the TEP’s of (Cu,C)-1223 for
different dopings display smaller absolute 295 K values and a smaller
temperature dependence similar to YBCO, whereas those for (Cu,C)-1234
for different dopings show larger absolute values and a greater
temperature dependence similar to HBCCO. It has been demonstrated that
the n dependence of dT_(c)/dP predicted using the phenomenological model
is in qualitative agreement with that observed in YBCO (Ref. [4]) but
not in HBCCO (Ref. [15]) and that the CuO-chain configuration appears in
YBCO but not in HBCCO. The present TEP observations therefore suggest
that the different n dependences of dT_(c)/dP detected in (Cu,C)-1223
and -1234 may be attributed to the different CuO-chain contributions to
the electronic spectra in the two compounds. This may be related to the
differences in detailed local structures, and a careful reexamination is
warranted.

In summary, we have examined under hydrostatic pressures the T_(c) of
the oxycarbonate cuprates of (Cu,C)-1223 and -1234 with different
dopings. T_(c) was found to vary linearly with pressure up to 1.6 GPa.
dT_(c)/dP increases linearly with n decrease for (Cu,C)-1223, which
possesses the CuO-chains as the source for pressure-induced charge
transfer for n variation, similar to YBCO, in agreement with the
prediction by the phenomenological model. However, dT_(c)/dP for
(Cu,C)-1234 decreases with n decrease, in spite of the reported
existence of the CuO-chain in both compounds. We have also observed
different temperature-dependent TEP’s in the two compounds. The TEP for
(Cu,C)-1223 varies only slightly with temperature, similar to YBCO,
which has the CuO-chains, while that for (Cu,C)-1234 varies strongly
with temperature, similar to HBCCO, which does not have the CuO chains
and whose dT_(c)/dP does not vary with n according to the model
prediction. We have therefore attributed the different n dependences of
dT_(c)/dP to the possible different CuO₂-chain electronic contributions
to the energy spectra of the two compounds.

## Acknowledgments

This work was supported in part by NSF Grant No. DMR 98-04325, T. L. L.
Temple Foundation, John and Rebecca Moores Endowment, and the State of
Texas through the Texas Center for Superconductivity at the University
of Houston.

## References

* [*] Present address: Microsoft Corp., 1 Microsoft Way, Redmond,
Washington 98052-6399. * [+] Present address: Department of Physics,
Zhongshan University, Guangzhou, People’s Republic of China. * [3] M.R.
Presland, J.L. Tallon, R.G. Buckley, R.S. Liu, and N.E. Flower, Physica
C **176**, 95 (1991). * [4] S.D. Obertelli, J.R. Cooper, and J.L.
Tallon, Phys. Rev. B **46**, 14 928 (1992). * [5] See, for example, C.W.
Chu, P.H. Hor, J.G. Lin, Q. Xiong, Z.J. Huang, R.L. Meng, Y.Y. Xue, and
Y.C. Jean, _Frontiers of High-Pressure Research_, edited by H.D.
Hochheimer and R.D. Etters (Plenum Press, New York, 1991), p. 383; R.J.
Wijngaarden, J.J. Scholtz, E.N. van Engige, and R. Griessen, _ibid._, p.
396; J.S. Schilling and S. Klotz, _Physical Properties of High
Temperature Superconductors_, edited by D.M. Ginsburg (World Scientific,
Singapore, 1992), Vol. 3, p. 59, and references therein. * [6] J.J.
Neumeier and H.A. Zimmermann, Phys. Rev. B **47**, 8385 (1993). * [7]
J.E. Schirber, E.L. Venturini, J.F. Kwak, D.S. Ginley, and B. Morosin,
J. Mater. Res. **2**, 421 (1987). * [8] Y. Cao, Q. Xiong, Y.Y. Xue, and
C.W. Chu, Phys. Rev. B **52**, 6854 (1995). * [9] N. Tanahashi, Y. Iye,
T. Tamegai, C. Murayama, N. Mori, S. Yomo, N. Okazaki, and K. Kitazawa,
Jpn. J. Appl. Phys. Part 2 **28**, L762 (1989). * [10] F. Chen, X.D.
Qiu, Y. Cao, L. Gao, Y.Y. Xue, C.W. Chu, and Q. Xiong, _Proceedings of
the 10th Anniversary HTS Workshop on Physics, Materials and
Applications_, edited by B. Batlogg, C.W. Chu, W.K. Chu, D.U. Gubser,
and K.A. Muller (World Scientific, Singapore, 1996), p. 263. * [11] T.
Homma, N. Mori, and M. Tanimoto, Physica C **282-287**, 791 (1997). *
[12] Y. Shimakawa, J.D. Jorgensen, D.G. Hinks, H. Shaked, R.L.
Hitterman, F. Izumi, T. Kawashima, E. Takayama-Muromadu, and T.
Kamiyama, Phys. Rev. B **50**, 16 008 (1994); T. Kawashima, Y. Matsui,
and E. Takayama-Muromadu, Physica C **224**, 69 (1994). * [13] C.W. Chu
and L.R. Testardi, Phys. Rev. Lett. **32**, 766 (1974). * [14] B.W.
Veal, A.P. Paulikas, H. You, H. Shi, Y. Fang, and J.W. Downey, Phys.
Rev. B **42**, 6305 (1990). * [15] S. Sadewasse, Y. Wong, J.S.
Schilling, H. Zheng, A.P. Paulikas, and B.W. Veal, Phys. Rev. B **56**,
14 168 (1997), and references therein. * [16] See, for example, C.K.
Subramaniam, H.J. Trodahl, A.B. Kaiser, and B.J. Ruck, Phys. Rev. B
**51**, 3116 (1995). * [17] Y.T. Ren, J. Clayhold, F. Chen, Z.J. Huang,
X.D. Qiu, Y.Y. Sun, R.L. Meng, Y.Y. Xue, and C.W. Chu, Physica C
**217**, 6 (1993); F. Chen, Ph.D. thesis, University of Houston, 1997.
