# Crystal growth, transport properties, and crystal structure

of the single-crystal La2-2Ba2CuO4 (_x_   1/8)

T. Adachi, T. Noji, and Y. Koike

Department of Applied Physics, Graduate School of Engineering, Tohoku
University, Aoba-yama 08, Aoba-ku, Sendai 980-8579, Japan

Received 2 April 2001; published 24 September 2001

###### Abstract

We have attempted the crystal growth by the traveling-solvent
floating-zone (TSFZ) method of La2-2Ba2CuO4 (_x_  1/8), where the
superconductivity is strongly suppressed. Under flowing O2 gas at high
pressure (4 bars), we have succeeded in growing single crystals for x =
0.11 of 5 mm in diameter and 20 mm in length. Both in-plane and
out-of-plane electrical resistivities of _single-crystal_ La2-2Ba2CuO4
(_x_ = 0.11) exhibit a clear jump at  53 K. The temperature corresponds
to the structural phase transition temperature between the orthorhombic
midtemperature and tetragonal low-temperature phases, _Td_2. Both
in-plane thermoelectric power and Hall coefficient drop rapidly at _Td_2
and decrease below _Td_2 with decreasing temperature. These results are
quite similar to those observed in single-crystal La16-2NdNdNdSrCuO4
(_x_  1/8), suggesting that the so-called static stripe order of holes
and spins in the CuO2 plane is formed below _Td_2 in La2-2Ba2CuO4 (_x_ 
1/8) as well as in La16-2NdNdNdSrCuO4 (_x_  1/8).

2001 10.1103/PhysRevB.64.144524 PACS number(s): 74.25.Fy, 74.62.Bf,
74.72.Dn, 81.10.Fq + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL REVIEW B, VOLUME 64,
144524

## I Introduction

Since the discovery of the anomalous suppression of superconductivity in
La2-2Ba2CuO4 (_x_  1/8), [1, 2] the so-called 1/8 anomaly has been a
subject of considerable research attention. In recent years, the 1/8
anomaly has been found not only in a series of La-214 high-_T__c_
superconductors [3, 4] but also in the Bi-221 [5, 6] and Y-123 ones, [7,
8, 9] which means that the 1/8 anomaly is common to high-_T__c_
superconductors including the CuO2 plane in their crystal structures. In
La2-2Ba2CuO4 (_x_  1/8), the structural phase transition from the
orthorhombic midtemperature (OMT, space group: _Bmab_) to tetragonal
low-temperature (TLT, space group: P42/_ncm_) phase occurs at  70 K.
[10, 11, 12] Moreover, at low temperatures below the structural phase
transition temperature _Td_2, the transport properties exhibit various
anomalous behaviors, such as an increase in the electrical resistivity
and decreases in the thermoelectric power and the Hall coefficient with
decreasing temperature. [13] Therefore, the intimate connection between
the crystal structure, the electronic state, and the suppression of
superconductivity has attracted notice. [14, 15] Several years ago, a
static stripe order of holes and spins in the CuO2 plane was discovered
from the elastic neutron-scattering experiment in La16-2NdNdNdSrCuO4
(_x_ = 0.12). [16, 17] The static stripe order is formed as the TLT
phase appears. Therefore, they have proposed that the dynamical stripe
correlations, observed in a wide range of hole concentration in the
La-214 superconductors, [18, 19, 20, 21] are pinned by the TLT
structure, leading to the appearance of the static stripe order and the
suppression of superconductivity.

In La2-2Ba2CuO4 (_x_  1/8), such a static stripe order has not yet been
found in the neutron scattering experiments because of the difficulty in
the preparation of a large-sized single crystal of good quality.
However, it is thought that the static stripe order exists also in this
system, taking account of the appearance of the TLT phase and transport
anomalies below _Td_2 in the polycrystalline sample that are analogous
to those observed in La16-2NdNdNdNdSrCuO4 [3, 22, 23]. Moreover, the
observation of a magnetic order of Cu spins in the muon-spin-rotation
measurements provides a strong circumstantial evidence in favor of spin
stripe ordering in La2-2BaCuO4 (_x_  1/8). [24, 25] Another interesting
fact about La2-2BaCuO4 is that the effect of the Nd spin in
La16-2NdNdNdNdSrCuO4 on the formation of the static stripe order can be
examined. It is because Sakita _et al._ have pointed out that the
behavior of the susceptibility of La16-2NdNdNdNdSrCuO4 is quite
different from that of La2-2SrCuO4 even above _Td_2, which suggests that
the Nd moment may have a great influence on the formation of the static
stripe order. [26] Accordingly, the preparation of the high-quality
single crystals of La2-2BaCuO4 (_x_  1/8) and the detailed study on the
possible stripe order are of much importance.

Several attempts to grow single crystals of La2-2BaCuO4 by the
traveling-solvent floating-zone (TSFZ) method have been reported so far.
[27, 28, 29, 30] However, no single crystal of good quality with _x_ 
1/8 has been grown in flowing O2 gas at pressures below  2 bars.
Therefore, we have attempted to grow single crystals of La2-2BaCuO4
(_x_  1/8) by the TSFZ method in flowing O2 gas at high pressures, based
on the analogy of the successful growth of La2-2-2SrCuO4 single
crystals. [31, 32, 33, 34, 35] Then, we have investigated the transport
properties of the obtained single crystals.

## II Experimental details

In the crystal growth of La2-2BaCuO4 (_x_  1/8), La2O3, BaCO3, and CuO
powders were used as raw materials of the feed rod and the solvent. For
the feed rod, the powders in the molar ratio of La:Ba:Cu = 1.875:0.125:1
were mixed and preferred in air at 900 degC for 12 h. After
pulverization, the preferred materials were mixed and sintered in air at
1100 degC for 24 h. This process of mixing and sintering was repeated
four times to obtain homogeneous powders of La2-2BaCuO4. Next, 1 mol

For the solvent rod, the composition of the raw materials was richer in
Cu; typically La_(1.875)Ba_(0.125):Cu = 3:7 in the molar ratio. Powders
of the raw materials were mixed and prefired in air at 900 ^(∘)C for 12
h. After pulverization, the prefired materials were mixed and formed
into cylindrical rods. Then, the final sintering was performed in air at
900 ^(∘)C for 12 h. The sintered rods were sliced in pieces and a piece
of ∼ 0.4 g was used as a solvent for the TSFZ growth.

The TSFZ growth was carried out in an infrared heating furnace equipped
with a quartet ellipsoidal mirror (Crystal Systems Inc., Model
FZ-T-4000-H). Under flowing O₂ gas at high pressure (4 bars), the zone
traveling rate was 1.0 mm/h and the rotation speed of the feed rod and
the grown crystal was 30 rpm in the opposite direction.

In order to fill up oxygen vacancies and to remove the strain, the
as-grown crystals were postannealed in flowing O₂ gas at 1 bar and 900
^(∘)C for 50 h, cooled down to 500 ^(∘)C at a rate of 8 ^(∘)C/h, kept at
500 ^(∘)C for 50 h, and then cooled down to room temperature at a rate
of 8 ^(∘)C/h.

The dc magnetic susceptibility was measured with a superconducting
quantum interference device magnetometer (Quantum Design, Model
MPMS-XL5). Electrical resistivity measurements were carried out by the
dc four-probe method. The thermoelectric power was measured by the dc
method with a temperature gradient of ∼ 0.5 K across a crystal. The Hall
coefficient was measured by the ac method with a frequency of 30 Hz.
Powder x-ray diffraction measurements were also performed in a
temperature range between 10 K and 280 K, in order to estimate the
structural phase transition temperatures.

## III Experimental Results

### Characterization of grown crystals

We succeeded in keeping the molten zone stable under flowing O₂ gas at 4
bars during the TSFZ growth. An as-grown crystal is shown in Fig. 1. The
dimensions were 5 mm in diameter and 70 mm in length. A few days later,
however, the crystal of a half or over was broken into pieces in air,
because the initially grown portion of the crystal contained some
inclusions such as La₂O₃, which was confirmed by the powder x-ray
diffraction measurements.[36] A single crystal of 5 mm in diameter and
20 mm in length was obtained from the part grown in the last stage.

Details of the domain structure of the grown crystal were investigated
by the x-ray back-Laue photography. As shown in Fig. 2, fourfold
symmetric spots were clearly observed in the photograph of a surface
parallel to the growth direction, indicative of the crystal as a single
crystal. Moreover, the broadness of the spots was similar to that in
La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄ single crystals.[35] We also checked the crystal by
the powder x-ray diffraction. There could be seen Bragg peaks of the
La-214 phase and no impurities such as La_(1 + y)Ba_(2 − x)Cu₃O_(7 − δ),
La₄BaCu₃O₁₃, and La₂O₃ reported in some earlier papers.[27, 28, 30]
Accordingly, it is concluded that the quality of the grown single
crystal is good.

The Ba content of the grown crystal was estimated by the inductively
coupled plasma atomic-emission-spectrometry (ICP-AES) to be x = 0.11,
which is a little smaller than that of the feed rod. It may be due to
some evaporation of Ba and also due to concentration of Ba into the
molten zone in the TSFZ growth process. In fact, the Ba content in the
molten zone, estimated by the ICP-AES after the growth, was La:Ba =
0.94:1.06 in the molar ratio. Therefore, it is considered that the
analyzed ratio of the solvent of La:Ba = 0.94:1.06 is more appropriate
than the starting composition of La:Ba = 1.875:0.125 for the crystal
growth of x = 0.11. This content

Figure 2: X-ray back-Laue photograph of a surface parallel to the growth
direction of La_(2 − x)Ba_(x)CuO₄.

Figure 1: As-grown crystal of La_(2 − x)Ba_(x)CuO₄ by the TSFZ method.
The size of the smallest scale is 1 mm.

of Ba is much larger than the Sr content in the molten zone in the case
of the growth of the overdoped La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)Cu_(1 − y)Zn_(y)O₄;
typically La:Sr=1.5:0.5 in the molar ratio.[35] The Cu content in the
molten zone after the growth was estimated by the ICP-AES to be
La_(0.94)Ba_(1.06):Cu = 2.0:8.0 in the molar ratio, which is richer than
that in the starting composition. It has been reported, on the other
hand, that the starting composition of the solvent (La, Ba):Cu = 2:8
results in the inclusion of (La, Ba) ₂Cu₂O₅ in the grown crystals.[37]
Therefore, the starting composition of the solvent (La, Ba):Cu = 3:7 may
be quite suitable for the crystal growth of x = 0.11.

The oxygen content of the postannealed crystal of La_(2 − x)Ba_(x)CuO₄
was checked by iodometry. As a result, there was no oxygen deficiency
within the experimental accuracy. That is, δ = 0.00 +- 0.01 for
La_(2 − x)Ba_(x)CuO_(4 − δ) (x = 0.11), indicating that the
postannealing process mentioned in Sec. II is enough to obtain
stoichiometric single crystals of La_(2 − x)Ba_(x)CuO₄.

Figure 3 shows the temperature dependence of the zero-field-cooled (ZFC)
and field-cooled dc magnetic susceptibilities of La_(2 − x)Ba_(x)CuO₄ (x
= 0.11) in a magnetic field of 10 Oe. It is found that superconductivity
of the bulk appears in this sample. The superconducting transition
temperature T_(c) , defined as the cross point between the extrapolated
line of the steepest part of the ZFC superconducting transition curve
and zero susceptibility, is 10.2 K.

### Transport properties and crystal structure

Figure 4 shows the temperature dependence of the in-plane (ρ_(ab)) and
out-of-plane (ρ_(c)) electrical resistivities in the single-crystal
La_(2 − x)Ba_(x)CuO₄ (x = 0.11). The ρ_(ab) exhibits a metallic behavior
in the normal state. The residual resistivity, defined as the
extrapolated value of the resistivity in the normal state to T = 0 K, is
as small as ∼ 10⁻⁵Ω cm, which is similar to those of high-quality single
crystals of La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄.[35, 38] The ρ_(c) exhibits a
semiconducting behavior in the normal state. A kink is observed at 256
K, corresponding to the structural phase transition temperature between
the tetragonal high-temperature (THT, space group: _14/mmm_) and OMT
phases, T_(d1).[39] The anisotropy, ρ_(c)/ρ_(ab) , is ∼ 10³ at room
temperature, which is almost the same as that of La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄ (x
∼ 1/8).[38] The value of T_(c) , defined as the midpoint of the
superconducting transition curve, is 17.8 K.[40] The values of T_(c) and
T_(d1) are in good agreement with those of the polycrystalline sample
with x = 0.11, respectively, as shown in Fig. 5.[10, 41] A clear jump is
observed at ∼ 53 K in the temperature dependence of both ρ_(ab) and
ρ_(c) , as shown in the inset of Fig. 4, though no jump has been
observed in the polycrystalline samples with x ∼ 1/8. The jumps are
considered to be due to the structural phase transition between the OMT
and TLT phases, as in the case of the single-crystal
La_(1.6 − x)Nd_(0.4)Sr_(x)CuO₄ (x = 0.12).[22] In fact, the temperature
roughly corresponds to T_(d2) of the polycrystalline sample with x =
0.11 as also shown in Fig. 5.[10, 42] These results on the electrical
resistivity also suggest that the composition of the single crystal is
almost the same as that of the polycrystalline sample with x = 0.11 and
that the quality of the single crystal is quite good.

The structural phase transition temperature T_(d1) and T_(d2) of the
single-crystal La_(2 − x)Ba_(x)CuO₄ (x = 0.11) have actually been
estimated from the powder x-ray diffraction measurements at low
temperatures. Figure 6(a) is a stack plot showing the temperature
dependence of the diffraction profile of the (220)_(THT) reflection in
the notation of the THT phase, which is sensitive to the
tetragonal-orthorhombic phase transitions. A single peak is observed at
high temperatures above T_(d1). The peak splits progressively with
decreas

Figure 4: Temperature dependence of the in-plane (ρ_(ab)) and
out-of-plane (ρ_(c)) electrical resistivities in the single-crystal
La_(2 − x)Ba_(x)CuO₄ (x = 0.11). The T_(d1) and T_(d2) represent
structural phase transition temperatures between the THT and OMT phases
and between the OMT and TLT phases, respectively. The inset shows
magnified plots of ρ_(ab) and ρ_(c) vs T around T_(d2).

Figure 3: Temperature dependence of the zero-field-cooled (ZFC) and
field-cooled (FC) dc magnetic susceptibilities of La_(2 − x)Ba_(x)CuO₄
(x = 0.11). The solid lines guide the reader’s eye.

ing temperature below T_(d1), corresponding to the (040)_(OMT) and
(400)_(OMT) peaks in the notation of the OMT phase. Below T_(d2),
however, the two peaks merge into a broad single peak. To make clear the
temperature dependence of the profile, the temperature dependence of the
full width at half maximum (FWHM) of the (110)_(THT) and (220)_(THT)
peaks are shown in Figs. 6(b) and 6(c), respectively. Below T_(d1), the
FWHM’s increase gradually with decreasing temperature because of the
second-order transition at T_(d1). Around T_(d2), they decrease suddenly
with decreasing temperature because of the first-order transition at
T_(d2). The width of the transition at T_(d2) is actually a little broad
on account of the limited time of the measurements. Values of T_(d1) and
T_(d2) are estimated to be ∼ 256 K and ∼ 53 K, respectively. Thus, it
has been confirmed from the powder x-ray diffraction measurements that
the kink and jump in the temperature dependence of the resistivity are
indeed due to the structural phase transitions at T_(d1) and T_(d2),
respectively.

The temperature dependence of the in-plane thermoelectric power S_(ab)
and the in-plane Hall coefficient R_(H) are shown in Fig. 7, together
with the ρ_(ab) vs T plot. The R_(H) was measured in a magnetic field of
4 T. The S_(ab) drops rapidly at T_(d2) and decreases below T_(d2) with
decreasing temperature. Moreover, it changes the sign somewhat at low
temperatures below ∼ 25 K, as shown in the inset of Fig. 7(b), which is
well known to be characteristic of the 1/8 anomaly.[13, 23, 23] The
R_(H) also drops rapidly at T_(d2) and decreases below T_(d2) with
decreasing temperature. Then, a conspicuous reversal in the sign of
R_(H) is observed at low temperatures below ∼ 25 K, where S_(ab) also
exhibits the sign reversal. These anomalous behaviors of S_(ab) and
R_(H) are similar to those observed in La_(1.6 − x)Nd_(0.4)Sr_(x)CuO₄ (x
= 0.12), though the sign reversal of R_(H) is not well defined in
La_(1.6 − x)Nd_(0.4)Sr_(x)CuO₄.[22]

## IV Discussion

We first discuss the clear jump or drop at T_(d2) in the temperature
dependence of ρ_(ab), ρ_(c), S_(ab), and R_(H), which we have observed
in La_(2 − x)Ba_(x)CuO₄. These clear transport anomalies at T_(d2) have
been formerly observed in La_(1.6 − x)Nd_(0.4)Sr_(x)CuO₄ (x = 0.12).
However, this is an important observation of such anomalies in
"La_(2 − x)Ba_(x)CuO₄.[43, 44] This is analogous to that observed in the
polycrystalline La_(2 − x)Ba_(x)CuO₄ (x = 1/8).[13] Moreover, the
anomalous behaviors are much clearer in the single crystal than in the
polycrystal, as in the case of La_(1.6 − x)Nd_(0.4)Sr_(x)CuO₄.[22, 23]
These results demonstrate that carriers are affected by the structural
phase transition at T_(d2) in La_(2 − x)Ba_(x)CuO₄ (x = 0.11) as well as
in La_(1.6 − x)Nd_(0.4)Sr_(x)CuO₄ (x = 0.12).[22] That is, it is
possible that the change of charge dynamics relevant to the change of
lattice occurs at T_(d2).

In general, signs of the thermoelectric power and the Hall coefficient
reflect the sign of carriers. Therefore, it is very likely that the
observed sign reversals in the temperature dependences of S_(ab) and
R_(H), as shown in Fig. 7, have the same origin. The sign reversal of
S_(ab) in the single-crystal La_(2 − x)Ba_(x)CuO₄ (x = 0.11) is very
small, compared with that in the polycrystalline La_(2 − x)Ba_(x)CuO₄ (x
= 1/8).[13] It may be due to the smaller value of x than 1/8 where the
sign reversal is the most conspicuous in the polycrystalline
La_(2 − x)Ba_(x)CuO₄. As for the sign reversal of R_(H), it is often
observed in the superconducting fluctuation regime, though it has not
yet been understood clearly. It is an empirical fact that the sign
reversal of R_(H) has a strong magnetic-field dependence in the
superconducting fluctuation regime. That is, the magnitude of the sign
reversal of R_(H) decreases with increasing magnetic field, accompanied
by the broadening of the superconducting transition curve in
resistivity.[44] Figure 8 displays the temperature dependence of R_(H)
in various magnetic fields, measured using another batch of the single

Figure 5: Phase diagram of La_(2 − x)Ba_(x)CuO₄. Open circles represent
T_(c).[41] Open triangles represent the structural phase transition
temperature between the THT and OMT phases T_(d1),[10] and open squares
represent that between the OMT and TLT phases T_(d2).[10, 42] Filled
circle, triangle, and square represent the present T_(c), T_(d1), and
T_(d2) of the single-crystal La_(2 − x)Ba_(x)CuO₄ (x = 0.11),
respectively.

Figure 6: (a) Powder x-ray diffraction profiles of the (220)_(THT)
reflection in the notation of the THT phase due to Cu K_(d1) radiation
at various temperatures for the single-crystal La_(2 − x)Ba_(x)CuO₄ (x =
0.11). (b), (c) Temperature dependence of the FWHM of the (110)_(THT)
and (220)_(THT) peaks due to Cu K_(d1) radiation, respectively. Dashed
lines at 256 K and 53 K represent T_(d1) and T_(d2) estimated from the
resistivity measurements, respectively. Solid lines guide the reader’s
eye.

crystal La_(2 − x)Ba_(x)CuO₄ (x = 0.11). It is found that the magnitude
of the sign reversal of R_(H) increases with increasing magnetic field
and saturates in higher fields above 6 T. Moreover, the sign-reversal
temperature is independent of the onset temperature of the
superconducting transition T_(c)^(onset) estimated from the resistivity
in each magnetic field.[45] Therefore, attributing the observed reversal
in the sign of R_(H) in the single-crystal La_(2 − x)Ba_(x)CuO₄
(x = 0.11) to the superconducting fluctuation is difficult. The origin
of the sign reversals in S_(ab) and R_(H) is not clarified, but these
behaviors are considered as characteristic of the 1/8 anomaly in a
series of La-214 systems.[13, 22, 23, 46, 47, 48]

We now discuss the experimental results in the single-crystal
La_(2 − x)Ba_(x)CuO₄ (x = 0.11) from the viewpoint of the static stripe
order. The observed anomalous behaviors in ρ_(ab), ρ_(c), S_(ab), and
R_(H) are quite similar to those observed in
La_(1.6 − x)Nd_(0.8)Sr_(x)CuO₄ (x ∼ 1/8) where the static stripe order
is formed at low temperatures below T_(d2). In particular, Noda _et al._
have suggested for La_(1.4 − x)Nd_(0.6)Sr_(x)CuO₄ that the rapid
decrease in R_(H) below T_(d2) is a typical behavior of the
one-dimensional transport associated with the formation of the stripe
order.[49] Therefore, we are much convinced that the static stripe order
of holes and spins is formed at low temperatures below T_(d2) also in
La_(2 − x)Ba_(x)CuO₄ (x = 0.11), though it was already predicted from
the experimental results in the polycrystalline samples. Although ρ_(ab)
exhibits an upturn at low temperatures below T_(d2) in
La_(1.6 − x)Nd_(0.6)Sr_(x)CuO₄ (x = 0.12), ρ_(ab) in the single-crystal
La_(2 − x)Ba_(x)CuO₄ (x = 0.11) does not exhibit any upturn but exhibits
a metallic behavior. It is because the stripe order may be highly
fluctuating at low temperatures below T_(d2) in spite of the pinning by
the TLT structure, as in the case of La_(1.6 − x)Nd_(0.4)Sr_(x)CuO₄
(x = 0.10).[50] To be sure of the above speculation, a direct
observation of the static stripe order from the neutron scattering
experiment is now being planned.

## V Summary

We have succeeded in growing high-quality single crystals of
La_(2 − x)Ba_(x)CuO₄ (x = 0.11) by the TSFZ method under

Figure 8: Temperature dependence of the in-plane Hall coefficient R_(H)
of the single-crystal La_(2 − x)Ba_(x)CuO₄ (x = 0.11) in various
magnetic fields. The arrow at ∼ 53 K represents T_(d2). The other arrows
below ∼ 30 K represent the onset temperature of the superconducting
transition T_(c)^(onset) in the respective magnetic fields.

Figure 7: Temperature dependence of (a) the in-plane electrical
resistivity ρ_(ab), (b) the in-plane thermoelectric power S_(ab) and (c)
the in-plane Hall coefficient R_(H) in the single-crystal
La_(2 − x)Ba_(x)CuO₄ (x = 0.11). The R_(H) was measured in a magnetic
field of 4 T. Dashed lines at 256 K and 53 K represent T_(d1) and
T_(d2), respectively. The inset of (b) shows a magnified plot of S_(ab)
below 50 K.

flowing O2 gas at high pressure (4 bars). We have investigated the
temperature dependence of ρ_(ab), ρ_(c), S_(ab) and R_(H) and the
crystal structure from the powder x-ray diffraction measurements at low
temperatures. We have observed a clear jump in both ρ_(ab) and ρ_(c) at
T_(d2). We have also found that both S_(ab) and R_(H) drop rapidly at
T_(d2) and decrease below T_(d2) with decreasing temperature. These
anomalous behaviors are analogous to, but much clearer than, those
observed in the polycrystalline La2-_x_BaCuO4 (_x_   1/8). These results
indicate that the change of charge dynamics relevant to the change of
lattice occurs at T_(d2) in La2-_x_BaCuO4 (_x_ = 0.11). Moreover, these
anomalous behaviors are quite similar to those observed in
La1.6-_x_Nd0,_Sr_xCuO4 (_x_   1/8) where the static stripe order appears
at low temperatures below T_(d2). It is much convinced that the static
stripe order of holes and spins in the CuO2 plane is formed below T_(d2)
in La2-_x_BaCuO4 (_x_  1/8).

###### Acknowledgements.

We are indebted to Professor K. Takada and M. Ishikuro for their help in
the ICP analysis. Valuable discussions with Dr. S. Watauchi and N.
Ichikawa are gratefully acknowledged. This work was supported by a
Grant-in-Aid for Scientific Research from the Ministry of Education,
Science, Sports and Culture, Japan, and also by CREST of Japan Science
and Technology Corporation. T.A. was supported by the Japan Society for
the Promotion of Science.

## References

* [1] A. R. Moodenbaugh, Youwen Xu, M. Suenaga, T. J. Folkerts, and R.
N. Shelton, Phys. Rev. B **38**, 4596 (1988). * [2] K. Kumagai, Y.
Nakamura, I. Watanabe, Y. Nakamichi, and H. Nakajima, J. Magn. Magn.
Mater. **768**77, 601 (1988). * [3] M. K. Crawford, R. L. Harlow, E. M.
McCarron, W. E. Farneth, J. D. Axe, H. Chou, and Q. Huang, Phys. Rev. B
**44**, 7749 (1991). * [4] Y. Koike, A. Kobayashi, T. Kawaguchi, M.
Kato, T. Noji, Y. Ono, T. Hikita, and Y. Saito, Solid State Commun.
**82**, 889 (1992). * [5] M. Akoshima, T. Noji, Y. Ono, and Y. Koike,
Phys. Rev. B **57**, 7491 (1998). * [6] I. Watanabe, M. Akoshima, Y.
Koike, and K. Nagamine, Phys. Rev. B **60**, R9955 (1999). * [7] J. L.
Tallon, G. V. M. Williams, N. E. Flower, and C. Bernhard, Physica C
**282-287**, 236 (1997). * [8] M. Akoshima and Y. Koike, J. Phys. Soc.
Jpn. **67**, 3653 (1998). * [9] M. Akoshima, Y. Koike, I. Watanabe, and
K. Nagamine, Phys. Rev. B **62**, 6761 (2000). * [10] J. D. Axe, A. H.
Moudden, D. Hohlwein, D. E. Cox, K. M. Mohanty, A. R. Moodenbaugh, and
Youwen Xu, Phys. Rev. Lett. **62**, 2751 (1989). * [11] T. Suzuki and T.
Fujita, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **58**, 1883 (1989). * [12] T. Suzuki and T.
Fujita, Physica C **159**, 111 (1989). * [13] M. Sera, Y. Ando, S.
Kondoh, K. Fukuda, M. Sato, I. Watanabe, S. Nakashima, and K. Kumagai,
Solid State Commun. **69**, 851 (1989). * [14] S. Takeuchi, C. Imazawa,
S. Katano, M. Kato, Y. Ono, T. Kajitani, and Y. Koike, Physica C
**263**, 298 (1996). * [15] Y. Koike, S. Takeuchi, H. Sato, Y. Hama, M.
Kato, Y. Ono, and S. Katano, J. Low Temp. Phys. **105**, 317 (1996). *
[16] J. M. Tranquada, B. J. Sternlieb, J. D. Axe, Y. Nakamura, and S.
Uchida, Nature (London) **375**, 561 (1995). * [17] J. M. Tranquada, J.
D. Axe, N. Ichikawa, Y. Nakamura, S. Uchida, and B. Nachumi, Phys. Rev.
B **54**, 7489 (1996). * [18] S. -W. Cheong, G. Aeppli, T. E. Mason, H.
Mook, S. M. Hayden, P. C. Canfield, Z. Fisk, K. N. Clausen, and J. L.
Martinez, Phys. Rev. Lett. **67**, 1791 (1991). * [19] T. E. Mason, G.
Aeppli, and H. A. Mook, Phys. Rev. Lett. **68**, 1414 (1992). * [20] T.
R. Thurston, P. M. Gehring, G. Shirane, R. J. Birgeneau, M. A. Kastner,
Y. Endoh, M. Matsuda, K. Yamada, H. Kojima, and I. Tanaka, Phys. Rev. B
**46**, 9128 (1992). * [21] K. Yamada, C. H. Lee, K. Kurahashi, J. Wada,
S. Wakimoto, S. Ueki, H. Kimura, Y. Endoh, S. Hosoya, G. Shirane, R. J.
Birgeneau, M. Greven, M. A. Kastner, and Y. J. Kim, Phys. Rev. B **57**,
6165 (1998). * [22] Y. Nakamura and S. Uchida, Phys. Rev. B **46**, 5841
(1992). * [23] Y. Koike, A. Kobayashi, S. Takeuchi, S. Katano, S.
Funahashi, T. Kajitani, A. Fujiwara, M. Kato, T. Noji, and Y. Saito,
Physica B **213&214**, 84 (1995). * [24] K. Kumagai, I. Watanabe, K.
Kawano, H. Matoba, K. Nishiyama, K. Nagamine, N. Wada, M. Okaji, and K.
Nara, Physica C **185-189**, 913 (1991). * [25] G. M. Luke, L. P. Le, B.
J. Sternlieb, W. D. Wu, Y. J. Uemura, J. H. Brewer, T. M. Riseman, S.
Ishibashi, and S. Uchida, Physica C **185-189**, 1175 (1991). * [26] S.
Sakita, F. Nakamura, T. Suzuki, and T. Fujita, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn.
**68**, 2755 (1999). * [27] J. Yu, Y. Yanagida, H. Takashima, Y.
Inaguma, M. Itoh, and T. Nakamura, Physica C **209**, 442 (1993). * [28]
T. Ito and K. Oka, Physica C **231**, 305 (1994). * [29] M. K. R. Khan,
H. Tanabe, I. Tanaka, and H. Kojima, Physica C **258**, 315 (1996). *
[30] H. Tanabe, S. Watauchi, I. Tanaka, and H. Kojima, in _Advances in
Superconductivity X_, Proceedings of the 10th International Symposium on
Superconductivity, edited by K. Osamura and I. Hirayashi
(Springer-Verlag, Tokyo, 1998), p. 371. * [31] I. Tanaka and H. Kojima,
Nature (London) **337**, 21 (1989). * [32] I. Tanaka, K. Yamane, and H.
Kojima, J. Cryst. Growth **96**, 711 (1989). * [33] H. Kojima and I.
Tanaka, Jpn. J. Appl. Phys. **Series 7**, 76 (1992). * [34] S. Hosoya,
C. H. Lee, S. Wakimoto, K. Yamada, and Y. Endoh, Physica C **235-240**,
547 (1994). * [35] T. Kawamata, T. Adachi, T. Noji, and Y. Koike, Phys.
Rev. B **62**, R11 981 (2000). * [36] It is well known that La2O3
changes to La(OH)3 by absorbing water in air, leading to the destruction
of the grown crystal. * [37] S. Watauchi (private communications). *
[38] T. Kimura, K. Kishio, T. Kobayashi, Y. Nakayama, N. Motohira, K.
Kitazawa, and K. Yamafuji, Physica C **192**, 247 (1992). * [39] S.
Kambe, K. Kitazawa, M. Naito, A. Fukuoka, I. Tanaka, and H. Kojima,
Physica C **160**, 35 (1989). * [40] The T_(c) value estimated from the
resistivity is higher than that from the susceptibility, which is also
known in polycrystalline sample with _x_ 1/8.[1] The phase of a little
lower concentration of Ba than x = 0.11 remaining in the filamentary
shape may exhibit superconductivity at temperatures higher than 10.2
K. * [41] Y. Koike, N. Watanabe, T. Noji, and Y. Saito, Solid State
Commun. **78**, 511 (1991). * [42] S. J. L. Billinge, G. H. Kwei, A. C.
Lawson, J. D. Thompson, and H. Takagi, Phys. Rev. Lett. **71**, 1903
(1993). * [43] No anomaly has been observed in the transport properties
of the single-crystal La_(2 − x)Ba_(x)CuO₄(_x_ = 0.095), which may be
due to the value of x being far from 1/8. Y. Abe, Y. Ando, J. Takeya, H.
Tanabe, S. Watauchi, I. Tanaka, and H. Kojima, Phys. Rev. B **59**, 14
753 (1999). * [44] For example, Y. Matsuda, S. Komiyama, T. Terashima,
K. Shimura, and Y. Bando, Phys. Rev. Lett. **69**, 3228 (1992). * [45]
T. Adachi and Y. Koike (unpublished). * [46] Y. Koike, S. Takeuchi, Y.
Hama, H. Sato, T. Adachi, and M. Kato, Physica C **282-287**, 1233
(1997). * [47] T. Adachi, T. Noji, H. Sato, Y. Koike, T. Nishizaki, and
N. Kobayashi, J. Low Temp. Phys. **117**, 1151 (1999). * [48] T. Fukase,
H. Geka, T. Goto, K. Chiba, and T. Suzuki, J. Low Temp. Phys. **117**,
491 (1999). * [49] T. Noda, H. Eisaki, and S. Uchida, Science **286**,
265 (1999). * [50] N. Ichikawa, S. Uchida, J. M. Tranquada, T.
Niemoller, P. M. Gehring, S.-H. Lee, and J. R. Schneider, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **85**, 1738 (2000).
