Effect of heavy-ion irradiation on superconductivity in
Ba_(0.6)K_(0.4)Fe₂As₂

N. W. Salovich,¹ Hyunsoo Kim,² Ajay K. Ghosh,^(1, 3) R. W.
Giannetta,^(1,) W. Kwok,⁴ U. Welp,⁴ B. Shen,⁴ S. Zhu,⁴ H.-H. Wen,^(5, 6)
M. A. Tanatar,² and R. Prozorov²

¹Loomis Laboratory of Physics, University of Illinois at
Urbana-Champaign, Urbana, Illinois 61801, USA

²Ames Laboratory and Department of Physics and Astronomy, Iowa State
University, Ames, Iowa 50011, USA

³Department of Physics, Jadarpur University, Kolkata 700032, India

⁴Argonne National Laboratory, Argonne, Illinois 60439, USA

⁵Center for Superconducting Physics and Materials, National Lab for
Solid State Microstructures, Nanjing University, Nanjing 210093, China

⁶Department of Physics, Nanjing University, Nanjing 210093, China

28 February 2013; revised manuscript received 22 April 2013; published 8
May 2013

###### Abstract

The London penetration depth was measured in optimally doped
Ba_(0.6)K_(0.4)Fe₂As₂ crystals, with and without columnar defects
produced by 1.4 GeV ²⁰⁰Pb irradiation. The low temperature behavior of
unirradiated samples was consistent with a fully gapped superconducting
state with a minimum energy gap $\Delta_{\rm min}/k_{B}T_{C}\approx 1$.
Similar gap values were observed for irradiation levels corresponding to
mean column-column separations of 32 and 22 nm. At very high irradiation
levels (column-column separation of 10 nm) a T² power law was observed
below T_(C)/3, most likely due to elevated scattering. Neither the
location nor the sharpness of the superconducting transition was
affected by irradiation. The data provide evidence for an s⁺⁻ pairing
state.

pacs: DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.87.180502 PACS number(s): 74.70.Xa,
74.25.Ha, 74.20.Mn, 74.20.Rp + Footnote †: preprint: APS/123-QED

A multigap, sign-changing order parameter, termed the s⁺⁻ phase,[1, 2]
is a leading candidate for the pairing state in iron-based
superconductors. Although there is considerable evidence for multiple
energy gaps,[3] direct proof of a sign change remains a challenge.
Several authors[4, 5] have predicted that impurities should change the
temperature dependence of various quantities in a manner that is
sensitive to the relative sign. For example, the London penetration
depth in an s⁺⁻ state is expected to evolve from an exponentially
activated (BCS-like) dependence to a T² power law with increasing
impurity concentration.[4, 5] The effect of impurities on T_(C) is
unsettled. Originally, nonmagnetic interband scattering was predicted to
rapidly suppress T_(C),[6] but this conclusion was later revised.[7, 8]
Isolating the role of impurities is difficult since they may also change
the carrier concentration and in turn change the pairing state. Indeed,
recent thermal conductivity measurements in Ba_(1 − x)K_(x)Fe₂As₂ show a
transition from a nodeless state to nodal d-wave pairing upon doping
towards pure KFe₂As₂.[9, 10, 11] Column defects produced by heavy-ion
irradiation offer an alternative way to test the effect of impurity
scattering. Columns do not ostensibly change the carrier concentration
or add magnetic scattering centers and their density may be reliably
controlled. Since columns are also effective vortex pinning centers,[12,
13] their effect on the superconducting properties is important to
understand.

In this Rapid Communication we report penetration depth measurements on
single crystals of Ba_(0.6)K_(0.4)Fe₂As₂, a hole-doped, iron-based
superconductor.[14] By studying both pristine and irradiated samples
taken from the same crystal we isolate the effect of columnar defects.
This approach was first carried out on the related electron-doped
superconductors Ba(Fe_(1 − x)Co_(x))₂As₂ and Ba(Fe_(1 − x)Ni_(x))₂As₂,
where changes in T_(C) and penetration depth were in agreement with an
s⁺⁻ pairing model.[15] For Ba_(0.6)K_(0.4)Fe₂As₂, we find that heavy-ion
irradiation does not change T_(C), even with a column to column
separation of only a few coherence lengths. However, very dense columnar
defects do cause the penetration depth to acquire a T² power law
dependence, which is strong evidence for an s⁺⁻ state. The power law is
critical since the penetration depth remains exponential at low
temperatures, even in the dirty limit of a conventional isotropic s-wave
superconductor.[3]

Measurements were performed on two groups of (nominally) optimally doped
single crystal Ba_(0.6)K_(0.4)Fe₂As₂,[16] Irradiation with 1.4 GeV ²⁰⁸Pb
ions was performed at the Argonne Tandem Linear Accelerator using a gold
foil to disperse the beam via Rutherford scattering to ensure uniform
beam spot over the sample. The beam current was held below 500 pA to
avoid sample heating. Heavy ions formed tracks along the c axis with an
average stopping distance of 60-70 μm, larger than the thickness of the
crystals. The irradiation level is specified by fluence, mean
column-column separation r, and the matching field (in T) defined as
B_(ϕ) = ϕ₀/r², where ϕ₀ is the flux quantum. For the first sample group
(measured at Ames Laboratory) a single crystal with T_(C) = 39 K was cut
into several smaller segments. One segment was left unirradiated
(B_(ϕ) = 0) while the other two segments were given irradiation doses of
B_(ϕ) = 2 T (r = 32 nm, fluence  = 9.6 × 10¹⁰ ions/cm² s) and B_(ϕ) = 4
T (r = 22 nm, fluence  = 1.9 × 10¹¹ ions/cm² s). The samples measured at
UIUC were taken from a single crystal with T_(C) = 36.8 K. One segment
was left unirradiated while the second was irradiated to B_(ϕ) = 21 T
(r = 10 nm, fluence  = 10¹² ions/cm² s).

Changes in the penetration depth with temperature were measured with a
tunnel diode resonator described in several previous publications.[17,
18, 19] Two separate but functionally equivalent oscillators were used,
each with a base temperature of 400 mK. Upon _in situ_ insertion of the
sample into the probe coil, the shift in oscillator frequency Δf is
given by

$$\Delta\)\(f=\frac{gV_{s}}{1-N}\left(1-\frac{\lambda}{R}\tanh\frac{R}{\lambda}\right).$$
(1) R is an effective sample dimension, N is the sample demagnetizing
factor, g is a calibration constant, and λ is the penetration depth for
currents flowing perpendicular to the c axis.[18; 19] Figure 1 shows the
penetration depth in the low temperature region (T/T_(C) < 0.32) for the
first sample group (T_(C) = 39 K). The data for each irradiation level
were fit over the temperature range shown to a BCS-like form,
$\Delta\,\lambda\sim\sqrt{\Delta/T}e^{-\lambda/T}$. The gap values were
Δ_(min)/k_(B)T_(C) = 0.99 (B_(ϕ) = 0), 0.99 (B_(ϕ) = 2 T), and 0.81
(B_(ϕ) = 4 T). In each case the BCS expression provided a superior fit
to a power law. These gap values are in good agreement with scanning
tunneling microscopy (STM)[16] and ellipsometry[20] measurements that
report Δ_(min)/k_(B)T_(C) = 1.1. Figure 2 shows similar data for the
second sample group (T_(C) = 36.8 K). Data for the unirradiated sample
were best fit to a BCS form with Δ_(min)/k_(B)T_(C) = 0.97. These
minimum gap values are all well below the weak-coupling BCS value of
Δ_(min)/k_(B)T_(C) = 1.76, implying at least two distinct energy gaps
and consistent with many experiments in the iron-based
superconductors.[3]

The lower panel of Fig. 2 shows data for the heavily irradiated
(B_(ϕ) = 21 T) sample. In this case a T² power law provided a clearly
superior fit to the BCS form. There was no evidence of a low temperature
upturn that can arise from magnetic impurities.[19] Therefore scattering
from the columnar defects should be regarded as nonmagnetic. Figure 3
shows data in the vicinity of T_(C). For the first group (lower panel)
the midpoint transition temperature of T_(C) = 39 K was unaffected by
irradiation for all three matching fields. These data should be
contrasted with a systematic suppression of T_(C) for similar
irradiation levels in Ba(Fe_(1 − x)T_(x))₂As₂ (T= Co, Ni).[15] For the
second sample group (upper panel) the midpoint transition of
T_(C) = 36.8 K was the same for both unirradiated and irradiated
samples. The different Δ λ (T_(C)) values for various irradiation levels
reflect differences in the effective dimension R of the crystals.

The highest irradiation level (B_(ϕ) = 21 T) corresponds to an average
column separation of 10 nm. Transmission electron microscopy (TEM)
images show that the columns themselves have an average diameter of 3.7
nm. Were the tracks continuous, the superfluid would be confined to
regions of order 6.3 nm or less, i.e., roughly two coherence lengths.
However, the confinement is somewhat weaker since column tracks are
actually discontinuous and a given cross section reveals a column
density roughly 1/3 of what is expected from the dose matching field. At
high doses there is also a fairly high probability that an ion hits
close to the track of a previous impact, leading to a nonuniform damage
pattern with local strain fields.

The data in Figs. 2 and 3 appear difficult to reconcile. The evolution
from either $\Delta\,\lambda\sim\sqrt{\Delta/T}e^{-\Delta/T}$ or
Δ λ ∼ T^( n) (n > 2)_toward_Δ λ ∼ T ² with increased scattering is
predicted to occur with an s⁺⁻ order parameter for which internal
scattering produces midgap states, but not for an s₊₊ pairing state.[4;
5] However, interband scattering (unless it is in the pure unitary
limit) should _also_ suppress T_(C). Experiments in ion-irradiated
Ba(Fe_(1 − x)T_(x))₂As₂ (T= Co, Ni) show both effects and provide
evidence for s⁺⁻ pairing.[15] The much

Figure 2: (Color online) Change in penetration depth for the second
sample group (T_(C) = 36.8 K). Upper: Data for an unirradiated sample
with a BCS-like fit. Lower: Sample with B_(ϕ) = 21 T matching field
showing a quadratic power law fit.

Figure 1: (Color online) Change in penetration depth for three samples
from the first group (T_(C) = 39 K) for columnar defect densities of
B_(ϕ) = 0, 2, and 4 T. Fits to BCS temperature dependence are shown as
solid curves.

stronger T_(C) suppression in Ba(Fe_(1 − x)T_(x))₂As₂ may be a result of
its larger gap anisotropy, as revealed in both thermal conductivity and
penetration depth measurements.[21, 22, 23] At least for Borm-limit
scattering, generalizations of the Abrikosov-Gor’kov[24] theory show
that gap anisotropy, whether sign changing or not, permits nonmagnetic
scatterers to reduce T_(C)[25, 26, 27] Therefore, if the defects
produced by irradiation induce predominantly out-of-plane, small
wave-vector (intraband) scattering events, these will suppress T_(C) in
a material with an anisotropic gap, such as Ba(Fe_(1 − x)T_(x))₂As₂. The
same scatterers will have little effect on Ba_(0.6)K_(0.4)Fe₂As₂, where
the gap is much more isotropic. Increasing amounts of large wave-vector
(interband) scattering will eventually lead to midgap states and Δλ ∼ T²
in either superconductor if the pairing is s⁺⁻.[28] Hashimoto _et
al._[29] performed penetration depth measurements on several
unirradiated samples of Ba_(1 − x)K_(x)Fe₂As₂. They also observed a
crossover from exponential to Δλ ∼ T² as the impurity scattering rate
(as measured by microwave surface resistance) increased, again
consistent with s⁺⁻ pairing. In contrast to our data, they found that
T_(C) was suppressed from 32.7 to 25 K with higher scattering rates. The
difference suggests that either impurities produce stronger interband
scattering than columnar defects or that the differences in T_(C) in
between samples reflected different effective doping levels.

A more quantitative understanding of scattering from columnar defects
would clearly be desirable. However, some features may be independent of
the details. For example, our data are consistent with recent
calculations showing universal behavior in the T_(C) suppression for s⁺⁻
states.[7, 8] Those authors identify two different s⁺⁻ states, depending
on the sign of the pairing interaction averaged over two bands. For an
average repulsive interaction, T_(C) suppression follows an
Abrikosov-Gor’kov[24] scenario in which a generalized scattering rate of
order ℏΓ ∼ k_(B)T_(C0) drives T_(C) to zero while maintaining s⁺⁻
pairing. For a net attractive interaction, T_(C) suppression is
exceedingly weak and a universal function of scattering parameters. For
attractive coupling, the state begins as fully gapped s⁺⁻
($\Delta\lambda\sim\sqrt{\Delta/T}e^{-\Delta/T}$). With increased
scattering one gap crosses zero, leading to a concentration of midgap
states (Δλ ∼ T²) as observed here. A further increase of the scattering
leads to s₊₊ pairing and a return to
$\Delta\lambda\sim\sqrt{\Delta/T}e^{-\Delta/T}$. The observation of this
reentrant behavior would require a defect density even larger than
B_(ϕ) = 21 T.

The previous scenarios omitted mention of spin density wave (SDW) order,
which may be an important variable. Both Ba(Fe_(1 − x)Co_(x))₂As₂ (Ref.
[30]) and Ba_(1 − x)K_(x)Fe₂As₂ (Refs. [14, 31, 32, 33]) possess a
SDW/superconductivity coexistence region. Disorder generally suppresses
the SDW transition and may simultaneously reduce or even enhance T_(C)
for an s⁺⁻ state.[34] The detailed behavior of T_(C) therefore depends
on the level of doping as well as the character of the scattering,
making this model difficult to assess. We stress that
SDW/superconductivity coexistence on a microscopic scale is itself a
strong indication of s⁺⁻ pairing.[35]

It is useful to compare Ba_(0.6)K_(0.4)Fe₂As₂ with MgB₂, a
phonon-mediated superconductor with weak anisotropy and two unequal
energy gaps.[36] Chikumoto _et al.[37]_ irradiated MgB₂ samples with 5.8
GeV Pb ions and reported no change in T_(C) for matching fields up to
B_(ϕ) = 4 T. This might suggest that s⁺⁻ pairing holds for
Ba_(0.6)K_(0.4)Fe₂As₂ as it does in MgB₂. However, to our knowledge
there is no report of an impurity-induced crossover from exponential to
Δλ ∼ T² in MgB₂. In addition, the lack of T_(C) suppression in MgB₂ is
likely a peculiarity of its weak interband scattering and not a general
feature of s₊₊ pairing.[38, 39]

To summarize, Ba_(0.6)K_(0.4)Fe₂As₂ crystals show no change in T_(C) for
columnar defect densities up to B_(ϕ) = 21 T matching field. This robust
T_(C) contrasts sharply with ion-irradiated Ba(Fe_(1 − x)Co_(x))₂As₂,
suggesting that T_(C) suppression depends strongly on gap anisotropy. It
also contrasts with T_(C) suppression in Ba_(1 − x)K_(x)Fe₂As₂ samples
with differing impurity levels, suggesting that columns generate
predominantly intraband scattering. For both columnar defects and point
impurities,[29] the penetration depth changes from exponential to
Δλ ∼ T² as the defect density is raised. These findings indicate that
pure Ba_(0.6)K_(0.4)Fe₂As₂ pairs in an s⁺⁻ state that evolves, under
increasing defect density, to a configuration with midgap states.

We wish to thank P. Hirschfeld for emphasizing the role of gap
anisotropy in reducing T_(C). We also thank A. Chubukov, H. Kontani, D.
V. Efremov, and A. V. Boris for useful discussions. Work at Argonne and
UIUC was supported by the Center for Emergent Superconductivity, an
Energy

Figure 3: (Color online) Change in penetration depth near T_(C) for both
sample groups and different irradiation levels.

Frontier Research Center funded by the US Department of Energy, Office
of Science, Office of Basic Energy Sciences under Award No.
DE-AC0298CH1088. Work at The Ames Laboratory was supported by the US
Department of Energy, Office of Basic Energy Sciences, Division of
Materials Sciences and Engineering under Contract No. DE-AC02-07CH11358.
A.K.G. was supported in part by the Indo-US Science and Technology
Forum. Work in China was supported by the MOST of China (2011CBA00102,
2012CB821403) and PAPD.

## References

* [1] I. I. Mazin, D. J. Singh, M. D. Johannes, and M. H. Du, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **101**, 057003 (2008). * [2] K. Kuroki _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**101**, 087004 (2008). * [3] R. Prozorov and V. G. Kogan, Rep. Prog.
Phys. **74**, 124505 (2011). * [4] Y. Bang, Eur. Phys. Lett. **86**,
47001 (2009). * [5] A. B. Vorontsov, M. G. Vavilov, and A. V. Chubukov,
Phys. Rev. B **79**, 140507 (2009). * [6] S. Onari and H. Kontani, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **103**, 177001 (2009). * [7] D. V. Efremov, M. M. Korshunov,
O. V. Dolgov, A. A. Golubov, and P. J. Hirschfeld, Phys. Rev. B **84**,
180512(R) (2011). * [8] Y. Wang, A. Kreisel, P. J. Hirschfeld, and V.
Mishra, Phys. Rev. B **87**, 094504 (2013). * [9] K. Hashimoto, A.
Serafin, S. Tonegawa, R. Katsumata, R. Okazaki, T. Saito, H. Fukazawa,
Y. Kohori, K. Kihou, C. H. Lee, A. Iyo, H. Eisaki, H. Ikeda, Y. Matsuda,
A. Carrington, and T. Shibauchi, Phys. Rev. B **82**, 014526 (2010). *
[10] J.-Ph. Reid, M. A. Tanatar, A. Juneau-Fecteau, R. T. Gordon, S.
Rene de Cotret, N. Doiron-Leyrard, T. Saito, H. Fukazawa, Y. Kohori, K.
Kihou, C. H. Lee, A. Iyo, H. Eisaki, R. Prozorov, and L. Taillefer,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **109**, 087001 (2012). * [11] J.-Ph. Reid, A.
Juneau-Fecteau, R. T. Gordon, S. Rene de Cotret, N. Doiron-Leyraud, X.
G. Luo, H. Shakeripour, J. Chang, M. A. Tanatar, H. Kim, R. Prozorov, T.
Saito, H. Fukazawa, Y. Kohori, K. Kihou, C. H. Lee, A. Iyo, H. Eisaki,
B. Shen, H.-H. Wen, and Louis Taillefer, Supercond. Sci. Technol. **2**,
084013 (2012). * [12] Y. Nakajima, Y. Tsuchiya, T. Taen, T. Tamegai, and
S. Okayasu, Phys. Rev. B **80**, 012510 (2009). * [13] L. Fang, Y. Jia,
C. Chaparro, G. Sheet, H. Claus, M. A. Kirk, A. E. Koshelev, U. Welp, G.
W. Crabtree, W. K. Kwok, S. Zhu, H. F. Hu, J. M. Zuo, H.-H. Wen, and B.
Shen, Appl. Phys. Lett. **101**, 012601 (2012). * [14] M. Rotter, M.
Tegel, and D. Johrendt, Phys. Rev. Lett. **101**, 107006 (2008). * [15]
H. Kim, R. T. Gordon, M. A. Tanatar, J. Hua, U. Welp, W. K. Kwok, N. Ni,
S. L. Bud’ko, P. C. Canfield, A. B. Vorontsov, and R. Prozorov, Phys.
Rev. B **82**, 060518 (2010). * [16] L. Shan, Y.-L. Wang, J. Gong, B.
Shen, Y. Huang, H. Yang, C. Ren, and H.-H. Wen, Phys. Rev. B **83**,
060510(R) (2011). * [17] A. Carrington, R. W. Giannetta, J. T. Kim, and
J. Giapintzakis, Phys. Rev. B **59**, R14173 (1999). * [18] R. Prozorov,
R. W. Giannetta, A. Carrington, and F. M. Araujo-Moreira, Phys. Rev. B
**62**, 115 (2000). * [19] R. Prozorov and R. W. Giannetta, Supercond.
Sci. Technol. **19**, R41 (2006). * [20] A. Charnukha, O. V. Dolgov, A.
A. Golubov, Y. Matiks, D. L. Sun, C. T. Lin, B. Keimer, and A. V. Boris,
Phys. Rev. B **84**, 174511 (2011). * [21] M. A. Tanatar, J. P. Reid, H.
Shakeripour, X. G. Luo, N. Doiron-Leyraud, N. Ni, S. L. Bud’ko, P. C.
Canfield, R. Prozorov, and L. Taillefer, Phys. Rev. Lett. **104**,
067002 (2010). * [22] J. P. Reid, M. A. Tanatar, X. G. Luo, H.
Shakeripour, N. Doiron-Leyraud, N. Ni, S. L. Bud’ko, P. C. Canfield, R.
Prozorov, and L. Taillefer, Phys. Rev. B **82**, 064501 (2010). * [23]
C. Martin, H. Kim, R. T. Gordon, N. Ni, V. G. Kogan, S. L. Bud’ko, P. C.
Canfield, M. A. Tanatar, and R. Prozorov, Phys. Rev. B **81**, 060505
(2010). * [24] A. A. Abrikosov and L. P. Gor’kov, Zh. Eksp. Teor. Fiz.
**39**, 1781 (1960) [Sov. Phys. JETP **12**, 1243 (1961)]. * [25] Y. G.
Kogan, Phys. Rev. B **80**, 214532 (2009) * [26] A. A. Golubov and I. I.
Mazin, Phys. Rev. B **55**, 15146 (1997). * [27] L. A. Openov, JETP
Lett. **66**, 661 (1997). * [28] P. J. Hirschfeld (private
communication). * [29] K. Hashimoto, T. Shibauchi, S. Kasahara, K.
Ikada, S. Tonegawa, T. Kato, R. Okazaki, C. J. van der Beek, M.
Konczykowski, H. Takeya, K. Hirata, T. Terashima, and Y. Matsuda, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **102**, 207001 (2009). * [30] R. T. Gordon, H. Kim, N.
Salovich, R. Giannetta, R. M. Fernandes, V. G. Kogan, T. Prozorov, S. L.
Bud’ko, P. C. Canfield, M. A. Tanatar, and R. Prozorov, Phys. Rev. B
**82**, 054507 (2010). * [31] H. Chen, Y. Ren, Y. Qiu, Wei Bao, R. H.
Liu, G. Wu, T. Wu, Y. L. Xie, X. F. Wang, Q. Huang, and X. H. Chen,
Europhys. Lett. **85**, 17006 (2009). * [32] H. Fukazawa, T. Yamazaki,
K. Kondo, Y. Kohori, N. Takeshita, P. M. Shirage, K. Kihoui, K.
Miyazawa, H. Kito, H. Eisaki, and A. Iyo, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **78**,
033704 (2009). * [33] S. Avci, O. Chmaissem, D. Y. Chung, S. Rosenkranz,
E. A. Goremychkin, J. P. Castelan, I. S. Todorov, J. A. Schlueter, H.
Claus, A. Daoud-Aladine, D. D. Khalyavin, M. G. Kanatzidis, and R.
Osborn, Phys. Rev. B **85**, 184507 (2012). * [34] R. M. Fernandez, M.
G. Vavilov, and A. V. Chubukov, Phys. Rev. B **85**, 140512(R) (2012). *
[35] M. Fernandez and J. Schmalian, Phys. Rev. B **82**, 014521
(2010). * [36] J. P. Fletcher, A. Carrington, O. J. Taylor, S. M.
Kasakov, and J. Karpinski, Phys. Rev. Lett. **95**, 097005 (2005). *
[37] N. Chikumoto, A. Yamamoto, M. Konczykowski, and M. Murakami,
Physica C **378**, 381 (2002). * [38] I. I. Mazin, O. K. Andersen, O.
Jepsen, O. V. Dolgov, J. Kortus, A. A. Golubov, A. B. Kuz’menko, and D.
van der Marel, Phys. Rev. Lett. **89**, 107002 (2002). * [39] I. I.
Mazin and V. P. Antropov, Physica C **385**, 49 (2003).
