# Concentration range for superconductivity in high-quality
Pr2-_x_Ce_xCuO4-_y thin films

J. L. Peng, E. Maiser,* T. Venkatesan, and R. L. Greene

Center for Superconductivity Research, Department of Physics, University
of Maryland, College Park, Maryland 20742

G. Czjzek

Forschungszentrum Karlsruhe Institut fur Nukleare Festkorperphysik,
Postfach 36 40, D-76021 Karlsruhe, Germany

19 August 1996

###### Abstract

We report ac susceptibility, electrical resistivity, and structural
measurements on crystalline Pr2-_x_Ce2CuO4-_y_ (PCCO) thin films
prepared by pulsed laser deposition. We find superconductivity occurs
within a narrow Ce concentration range (0.13<_x_ < 0.20) similar to that
found for ceramic samples of this "electron-doped" material. Our results
are quite different than those recently reported [Phys. Rev. Lett.
**74**, 4927 (1995)] on PCCO single crystals where superconductivity
near 20 K was found for Ce concentration as low as x = 0.04. Possible
reasons for this difference will be discussed. [S0163-1829(97)50610-2]

The "electron-doped" high-_T_c system R_(2 − x)Ce2CuO4-_y_ (_R_ = Nd,
Pr, etc.).1,2 continues to be actively studied (in spite of its modest
_T_c == 20 K) because it has unusual properties compared to the
"hole-doped" high-_T_c copper oxides. Most current theories of high-_T_c
superconductivity do not distinguish between electron or hole doping in
the CuO2 planes and the observed experimental differences are not
presently understood. Some of the anomalous features of
R_(2 − x)Ce2CuO4-_y_ are (i) an apparent _s_-wave symmetry3 for the
superconducting wave function; (ii) a normal-state resistivity
proportional to T2 and evidence for both electron and hole carriers in
the transport properties;4 (iii) a narrow Ce doping range for the
occurrence of superconductivity.

The latter result has been questioned recently by Brinkmann _et al._,5
who reported that single crystals of Pr2-_x_Ce2CuO4-_y_ (PCCO) are
superconducting over a much wider Ce concentration range than previously
found in ceramic samples of PCCO or in single crystals of
Nd2-_x_Ce2CuO4-_y_ (NCCO). For example, they found a _T_c = 20 K for Ce
= 0.04 in PCCO. The _T_c vs x phase diagram determined by Brinkmann _et
al._ was similar to that found in "hole-doped" La2-_x_Sr2CuO4,6,7
although the high _T_c observed at low x near the antiferromagnetic
state was rather unusual. Since results on single crystals are usually
considered to be more reliable than results on ceramic samples, and the
implications of the Brinkmann _et al._ results are quite significant for
the theory of high-_T_c superconductivity, we attempted to verify their
new phase diagram with high-quality thin films. In the case of NCCO,
films, crystals, and ceramics all give the same phase diagram even
though they are prepared under different conditions. PCCO films have not
been previously prepared over a wide Ce concentration range to our
knowledge. We find that our _c_-axis oriented films of PCCO have a phase
diagram similar to that found originally in ceramic materials of PCCO
and NCCO.2 Later we will discuss the possible origin of the different
phase diagram found by Brinkmann _et al._

Systematic studies of R_(2 − x)Ce2CuO4-_y_ compounds have been hindered
by the difficulties in preparing well-characterized single phase samples
because of two distinct features of these materials. First, the doping
range of Ce for superconductivity is very narrow: for example, 0.14<_x_
< 0.17 in Nd2-_x_Ce2CuO4-_y_ (Ref. 2) as compared to 0.05<_x_ < 0.3 in
La2-_x_Sr2CuO4-_y_. Second, the appearance of superconductivity in
R_(2 − x)Ce2CuO4-_y_ is extremely sensitive to the oxygen stoichiometry.
As-grown samples are not superconducting and a high-temperature
reduction process is required to obtain superconductivity–usually a
difficult and complicated procedure. High-quality and homogeneous
ceramics, single crystals or thin films of these materials are necessary
to ensure reliable experimental data. Unfortunately, these are difficult
to prepare. Ceramic samples often contain phases with different Ce
concentrations as evidenced by broad superconducting transition widths
(D_T_c > 2 K) in both magnetic and resistivity measurements. Single
crystals are ideal for studying many physical properties, but careful
investigation has shown that the Ce concentration is often not uniform
inside crystals with thickness greater than 20 _m_m.8,9 Another possible
problem associated with crystals is oxygen inhomogeneity. Since the
diffusion coefficient10 of oxygen in Nd2CuO4 is lower than that of
Y-Ba-Cu-O, for example, at 900 degC, D = 2.39x10-5 cm2 sec-1, it is
difficult to remove oxygen uniformly from the interior of NCCO crystals.

An alternative is to fabricate thin-film samples. The thermodynamics of
epitaxial growth of thin films on single-crystalline substrates is very
different from that of the bulk samples. The deposition temperature of
thin films ( 800 degC) is much lower than the sintering temperature of
bulk samples ( 1100 degC). Phase separation is less likely in a
thin-film sample since its thickness (normally < 500 nm) is much smaller
than the thickness range ( 20 _m_m) over which Ce concentration was
found to be fairly uniform in single-crystal samples. The thin films are
easier to reduce uniformly because of their large surface-to-volume
ratio and much shorter diffusion length.

The fabrication of NCCO thin films has drawn considerable effort during
the past years. As demonstrated by Gupta _et al._11 and Mao _et al._,12
pulsed laser deposition (PLD) is a suitable technique for making NCCO
thin films since it reproduces the target composition. In this work PCCO
films were deposited in 200 mTorr of N2O gas at a deposition rate of 0.3
A/pulse on LaAlO3 substrates using the PLD technique. The pellets used
for targets were made from PCCO ceramic samples. During the deposition
the substrates were held at temperatures varying from 750 to 840 ^(∘)C
depending upon the Ce composition (we prepared films for 0<x<0.24).
After the deposition the deposition chamber was evacuated to 10⁻⁵ Torr
and the films were cooled to room temperature within 2 h. The thickness
of the films reported in this work varied from 300 to 600 nm. The films
were characterized for structural and superconducting properties using
x-ray diffraction, ac susceptibility, and resistivity measurements. We
attempted to anneal PCCO films for x<0.1 at the temperature (1050 ^(∘)C)
used by Brinkmann _et al._ for their crystal growth. Such films were
found to be inhomogeneous (see below).

X-ray diffraction shows that the PCCO films are grown primarily with the
c axis perpendicular to the substrate surface with a small fraction of
(110) orientation. No impurity peaks from any secondary phases were
detected within the resolution of x-ray diffraction. Rocking curve
analysis through the (006) planes of the films gives a full width at
half maximum (FWHM) of 0.11^(∘), indicating a superior growth
characterized by a narrow mosaic distribution. The lattice parameters
were determined from the peak values of 2 θ by indexing to a tetragonal
Pr2CuO4-type structure (space group I4/mmm). Since the size of a Ce ⁴⁺
ion (r = 0.92 A) is smaller than that of a Pr³⁺ ion (1.013 A), a
substitution of Pr ³⁺ by Ce ⁴⁺ in Pr2CuO4 causes a change in the lattice
parameters. The variation in the lattice parameter c is consistent with
that of PCCO crystals and ceramic [13] as a function of Ce
concentration.

ac susceptibility is a stringent test of the superconducting properties.
In this work, the thin film was placed between two coils separated
coaxially by several millimeters. One of the coils was driven by an ac
current, typically at 70 kHz, and the other coil picks up a signal which
is detected by a lock-in amplifier. The inductive coupling between
driving and pick-up coils is strongly modified by the self-inductance of
the film, especially when the film goes superconducting. In Fig. 1, we
plot both the real part and the imaginary part of the ac susceptibility
data as a function of temperature for different Ce concentrations.
Superconductivity occurs, within a narrow Ce concentration range,
0.13<x< 0.20, with a maximum T_(c) of 21 K and a transition width ΔT_(c)
(FWHM of the imaginary part) as sharp as 0.15 K at x = 0.15. The
transition temperature decreases quickly with both increasing and
decreasing Ce content. No superconductivity was observed above 4.2 K for
x<0.12. In the higher Ce doping range we observe superconductivity up to
x = 0.20. This is higher than previously reported in the ceramics [2]
and may be a result of our improved sample quality.

PCCO films annealed under the same conditions as used by Brinkmann _et
al._ for their crystals showed no evidence of bulk superconductivity for
x< 0.10. Films prepared this way most likely have oxygen or Ce
inhomogeneities since no signal is seen in ac susceptibility but the
resistivity decreases below ∼ 13 K. However, the resistivity never goes
to zero even at 4 K, the lowest temperature we measured. This suggests
there are some small superconducting regions in films prepared this
way–regions where the Ce or oxygen concentration is sufficient to give
the number of carriers found in a homogeneous superconducting sample
with x = 0.15. We also annealed x = 0.15 PCCO films under the Brinkmann
_et al._ conditions. We found these films to have a lower T_(c) and a
broader transition width as compared to films prepared by our technique.

It is commonly accepted that ceramic samples of
R_(2 − x)Ce_(x)CuO_(4 − y) have the highest T_(c) at an optimal doping

Figure 1: Imaginary part (a) and real part (b) of the ac susceptibility
signal of Pr2_(2 − x)Ce_(x)CuO_(4 − y) films, normalized and offset for
clarity of presentation, for a range of cerium doping.

near x = 0.15.[1, 2] When the superconducting transition temperature
decreases by moving away from x = 0.15, the transition width is
broadened. It is not unusual to see traces of superconductivity above 20
K when x is not at the optimal value and the midpoint of the transition
is at a lower temperature. In our thin-film work, as demonstrated in
Fig. 1, the superconducting transitions are shifted with only a slight
broadening of the transition widths when changing x. Therefore, T_(c) vs
x has been determined for the "electron-doped" materials _without
ambiguity_. Based on our experience with film preparation in NCCO (Ref.
[12]) we believe our films have the same oxygen content for all Ce
doping levels. Therefore, our data give a true representation of T_(c)
versus CuO₂ plane carrier density, which is the phase diagram of
relevance to theory.

Electrical resistivity using a standard four-probe method was measured
on these same PCCO films. The normal-state resistivity shows a metallic
behavior except for x < 0.13. Generally the absolute value of the
resistivity at room temperature decreases with increasing x. The
temperature dependence of the normal-state resistivity of these thin
films is nonlinear, and is similar to the NCCO crystals and thin films
previously reported.[14] Detailed transport properties will be published
separately. For the present study, more than two films were measured for
each x and the results are reproducible. Here only the resistivity data
for x = 0.10 and 0.15 are presented. The temperature dependence of the
resistivity for a superconducting film at x = 0.15 is shown in Fig.
2(a). The corresponding resistivity ratio $\rho(300{\rm K})/\rho(T_{c})$
is 6.2. The residual resistivity near T_(c) is 60 μΩ cm. As shown in the
inset, there is a sharp transition at T_(c) = 21.5 K with ΔT_(c) = 0.5
K. These parameters indicate that our films have a higher quality than
any previously reported on "n-type" materials. The temperature
dependence of resistivity for an x = 0.10 film is shown in Fig. 2(b).
Superconductivity was not observed down to 4.2 K. At low temperature
this film shows an upturn in resistivity, similar to that found in
crystals, which most likely originated from localization effects.[15]

In our resistivity measurements, the variation of T_(c) with changing Ce
concentration is consistent with the ac susceptibility data. We note
that the temperature of zero resistance corresponds to the onset of the
transition in the ac susceptibility measurements. Since the ac
susceptibility, particularly the imaginary part, provides a sensitive
means to detect inhomogeneities (such as Ce and oxygen distributions) in
the films, the ac susceptibility measurements were adopted to determine
the T_(c)’s for these PCCO films. The results of T_(c) vs x are shown in
Fig. 3.

Clearly our results on the PCCO films are consistent with the earlier
work on NCCO (Refs. [1] and [2]) that superconductivity can only occur
in the narrow range of Ce doping (near 0.15). We are convinced this is
the intrinsic behavior of the R_(2 − x)Ce_(x)CuO_(4 − y) system and
represents the true dependence of T_(c) versus CuO₂ plane carrier
concentration (as discussed earlier). This raises the question of the
origin of the different results obtained by Brinkmann _et al._ There
could be two possibilities: either oxygen or Ce inhomogeneity in their
crystals. Brinkmann _et al._ argue against both of these based on their
crystal-growth method.[16] However, our experience with NCCO crystal
growth[8, 9, 17] suggests that crystals with transition widths greater
than 2 K are inhomogeneous. In an earlier work[8] we reported that Ce
phase segregation occurs in thick (>20 μm) single crystals and
polycrystalline samples of

Figure 3: Superconducting transition temperature vs cerium concentration
for Pr_(2 − x)Ce_(x)CuO_(4 − y) thin films. T_(c) was determined by the
peak position of the imaginary part of ac susceptibility. Since the
superconducting transitions are sharp the error of T_(c) is less than
0.5 K.

Figure 2: Temperature dependence of the resistivity for
Pr_(2 − x)Ce_(x)CuO_(4 − y) thin films of x = 0.15 (a) and x = 0.10 (b).
The inset shows the resistivity data near T_(c) for x = 0.15 film.

Nd_(2 − x)Ce₂CuO_(4 − y) with nominal composition x = 0.15. The crystals
showed segregation into sharply defined ab plane sheets of material with
different cerium concentrations. In a later experiment,[9]
energy-dispersive diffraction of synchrotron-produced x rays was used to
study microscopic structural inhomogeneities in the same crystals. Small
changes in the lattice parameter c were detected over a spatial scale of
10 or 20 μm along the c axis. These changes were interpreted as evidence
of variations in the cerium content inside the crystals. Since the
dimensions of the crystals studied by Brinkmann _et al._ were typically
2 × 2 × 0.05 mm³, it is possible that these crystals (50 μm thick)
contain cerium inhomogeneity along the c axis. The broad superconducting
transitions in Fig. 2 of their paper[5] also suggest that their crystals
with x < 0.1 were inhomogeneous. One possible explanation for their
results is that for low x the Ce concentration in the middle of the
crystal is much higher (say, x > 0.10) than near the outside. Under a
normal reduction procedure, only the outside layers might be reduced
which would result in a nonsuperconducting crystal. When the new
annealing technique is used to reduce the crystals, more oxygen could be
taken out of the middle region of the crystals, such that the middle
layers become superconducting. This may explain why they observe such a
very different T_(c) vs x behavior.

In summary, we fabricated high-quality thin films of
Pr_(2 − x)Ce_(x)CuO_(4 − y) by pulsed laser deposition. No
superconductivity was observed in any low Ce doped films (x< 0.12) above
4.2 K. Superconductivity only occurs within a narrow Ce concentration
range 0.13<x< 0.20 with T_(c)max=21 K and ΔT_(c) as sharp as 0.15 K at
the optimal doping (x = 0.15). When the cerium concentration is changed
from this optimal doping the superconducting transition is shifted to a
lower temperature with minimal broadening of the transition. We were
thus able to determine the T_(c) vs x phase diagram more accurately than
in prior work.

The authors wish to thank S. N. Mao and Z. Y. Li for their help with the
experiments and Z. Trajanovic and P. Fournier for helpful discussions.
This work was supported by the National Science Foundation under Grant
No. DMR-9510475 and the German Academic Exchange Service (DAAD) from
Hochschulsonderprogramm II funds under Grant No. D/95/09140.

## References

* [1] Also at Forschungszentrum Karlsruhe Institut fur Nukleare
Festkorperphysik, Postfach 36 40, D-76021 Karlsruhe, Germany. * [2] Y.
Tokura, H. Takagi, and S. Uchida, Nature (London) **337**, 345 (1989). *
[3] H. Takagi, S. Uchida, and Y. Tokura, Phys. Rev. Lett. **62**, 1197
(1989). * [4] D. Wu _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **70**, 85 (1993). * [5]
W. Jiang _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **73**, 1291 (1994). * [6] M.
Brinkmann _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **74**, 4927 (1995). * [7] J. B.
Torrance _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **61**, 1127 (1988). * [8] M. B.
Maple, MRS Bull. **15**, 60 (1990). * [9] A. R. Drews _et al._, Physica
C **200**, 122 (1992). * [10] E. F. Skelton _et al._ , Science **263**,
1416 (1994). * [11] Y. Idemoto, K. Fueki, and M. Sugiyama, J. Solid
State Chem. **92**, 489 (1991). * [12] A. Gupta, G. Koren, C. C. Tsuei,
A. Segmueller, and T. R. McGuire, Appl. Phys. Lett. **55**, 1795
(1989). * [13] S. N. Mao _et al._, Appl. Phys. Lett. **61**, 2356
(1992). * [14] M. Matsuda _et al._, Physica C **179**, 347 (1991). *
[15] X. Q. Xu _et al._ , Phys. Rev. B **53**, 871 (1996). * [16] S. J.
Hagen _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **45**, 515 (1992). * [17] M. Brinkmann _et
al._, J. Cryst. Growth **163**, 369 (1996). * [18] J. L. Peng, Z. Y. Li,
and R. L. Greene, Physica C **177**, 79 (1991).
