# _ab_-plane optical properties of Tl₂Ba₂CuO_(6 + δ)

A.V. Puchkov and T. Timusk

Department of Physics and Astronomy, McMaster University, Hamilton,
Ontario, Canada L8S 4M1

S. Doyle and A.M. Hermann

Department of Physics, University of Colorado, Boulder, Colorado 80309

###### Abstract

We report on absolute _ab_-plane reflectivity measurements of the
single-layer high-T_(c) superconductor Tl₂Ba₂CuO_(6 + δ) in both the
normal and superconducting states. The reflectivity has been measured
from 40 to 40 000 cm⁻¹ and the optical conductivity has been calculated
from Kramers-Kronig analysis. The unusual form of the low-frequency
reflectivity leads to an intense low-frequency feature in the optical
conductivity. In the superconducting state, the spectral weight is
strongly suppressed at frequencies below ∼ 800 cm⁻¹ due to the formation
of a superfluid fraction. The value of the London penetration depth has
been estimated to be 2400 ± 200 A, larger than that from
muon-spin-resonance (μSR) experiments.

The Tl₂Ba₂CuO_(6 + δ) (TI2201) system provides an opportunity to study
high-temperature superconductivity in the overdoped regime. The whole
overdoped region, from the highest T_(c) superconductor to the
nonsuperconducting normal metal, is accessible by means of changes to
the oxygen level. Another important advantage of this material is that
it has a relatively simple single-layer structure without complications
arising from chainlike structural units.[1] Finally, despite its being a
single-layer material, Tl2201 is among the highest-T_(c)
superconductors. As a result, Tl2201 has attracted much interest during
the past few years. However, to our knowledge, there have been no
reports on the far-infrared optical properties, except for early work on
ceramic samples.[2]

In this paper, we report on the optical properties of nearly optimally
doped Tl2201 in the normal and superconducting states in the frequency
region from the far infrared to the near ultraviolet. An unusual
low-frequency optical conductivity has been observed with a
pseudogaplike feature at ∼ 70 cm⁻¹. In the superconducting state, a
redistribution of the spectral weight occurs due to the formation of a
superconducting condensate. The London penetration depth has been
estimated to be λ_(L) = 2400± 200 A.

The experiments were done on the Tl2201 single crystals prepared by a
solid-state self-flux method as reported elsewhere.[3] The crystals were
platelike with natural mirror-like _ab_ surfaces and typical dimensions
of 0.5× 0.7× 0.04 mm³. As-grown crystals were used without any
annealing. The superconducting transition temperatures were obtained by
means of ac magnetization measurements. Two crystals were measured
optically and gave similar results. Therefore, we will focus on one of
them in this report. The onset T_(c) value for this crystal was found to
be 88 K with ΔT_(c) = 8 K. It may be possible that the superconducting
transition was somewhat broadened by the relatively high (2.5 G) value
of the magnetic field used.[4] Results of x-ray measurements performed
on similar samples indicated a tetragonal structure. In agreement with
this, no anisotropy of the _ab_-plane reflectivity has been observed. As
well, the positions of the phonon modes in the Raman spectra measured on
the crystals used in this study suggest a tetragonal structure.[5]

The experimentally measured reflectivity is shown in Fig. 1 at several
temperatures above and below the T_(c) . The very high absolute values
of the low-frequency reflectivity are somewhat surprising given that
this material, at optimal doping, is a rather poor conductor:
$\rho_{\rm dc}$(300 K) =500−600 μΩ cm.[6] As an example, the dotted
curves in Fig. 1 show the reflectivity calculated in the free-electron
approximation using $\rho_{\rm dc}$ values from transport measurements
performed on similar crystals.[6] The lower curve corresponds to
$\rho_{\rm dc}$(300 K) = 525 μΩ cm and the upper one to
$\rho_{\rm dc}$(90 K) = 200 μΩ cm. One can see that the low-frequency
reflectivity of

Figure 1: Experimentally measured low-frequency reflectivity spectra at
different temperatures. The bold curves show the reflectivity at
superconducting temperatures. The dotted curves show free-electron
behavior expected for a conductor with $\rho_{\rm dc}$ = 525 Ω cm (lower
curve) and $\rho_{\rm dc}$ = 200 Ω cm (upper curve). Inset: reflectivity
in the whole measured frequency range at room temperature.

such a relatively bad conductor would normally be expected to be much
lower than that observed experimentally for the T12201 single crystals.
Furthermore, the reflectivity does not increase monotonically towards
unity at zero frequency as expected for the free-electron model.
Instead, with decreasing temperature it develops a maximum at about 200
cm⁻¹. All of the above observations point to a mechanism, different from
the free-electron model, that is responsible for the high reflectance.
Other features worth noting are the weak minima at 429 and 632 cm⁻¹.
Similar to other high-T_(c) superconductors,7 these frequencies
correspond to the frequencies of the LO phonon modes along the c axis.8
The inset of Fig. 1 shows reflectivity in the complete measured
frequency range up to ∼5 eV. A plasma minimum has been observed at about
1.1 eV and the rest of the reflectivity is relatively featureless except
for a broad peak at 28 000 cm⁻¹ (3.47 eV) and a broad knee at 16 000
cm⁻¹ (1.98 eV) which may be a manifestation of an interband transition
processes.

The real part of the optical conductivity [σ₁(ω)], calculated through
Kramers-Kronig (KK) analysis of the reflectivity, is presented in Fig. 2
for several temperatures. As expected from the peculiar reflectivity
behavior, its frequency dependence is quite different from free-electron
behavior: the low-frequency optical conductivity is strongly suppressed
below 70 cm⁻¹. For example, at room temperature, σ₁(ω) at ∼ 70 cm⁻¹ is
approximately twice the dc value. With decreasing temperature, the
spectral weight shifts to lower frequencies, which may be a result of a
decrease in the scattering rate. However, the low-frequency feature does
not disappear. Instead, it seems to increase in magnitude as additional
spectral weight piles up above 70 cm⁻¹. As a result a pseudogaplike
feature is present throughout the whole measured temperature range.

Reliable results, reproducible from sample to sample (ΔR ≤ 0.5

Footnote 11: The value of σ₁(ω) is ∼ 1.50 eV, which is consistent with
the value of σ₁(ω).

The superconducting reflectivity is qualitatively different from the
normal one. Already at T = 65 K reflectivity rises sharply above the
normal T = 90 K curve crossing it at about 600 cm⁻¹. As can be seen in
Fig. 2, these changes lead to a characteristic reduction of a spectral
weight under σ₁(ω) which is a signature of a formation of a
superconducting condensate. Indeed, a superconducting condensate,
responsible for the infinite dc conductivity, may be described by a δ
function centered at zero frequency in a real part of optical
conductivity. However, the sum rule for σ₁(ω) requires the total
spectral weight to be conserved, therefore, in order for the δ function
to appear, an equal part of the spectral weight

Figure 2: The real part of the optical conductivity calculated through
Kramers-Kronig analysis of the reflectivity spectra presented in Fig. 1.
The conductivity at T = 15 K is shown by the narrow line in the upper
panel. The symbols on the vertical axes show the dc conductivity
reported for crystals similar to ours in Ref. 6. The second symbol on
the vertical axis of the T = 300 K panel shows the dc conductivity value
obtained by Manako _et al._ on crystals grown by this group. The dotted
curve on this panel shows an example of the Drude contribution which
could be responsible for the dc temperature dependence as discussed in
the text. The rest of the optical conductivity in this case belongs to
the MIR contribution.

should be taken from finite frequencies.[12] We note that the large
frequency region directly affected by the superconducting transition
ω_(c) = 13kT_(c) is much larger than 3.5kT_(c) expected for a BCS-like
model. A kneelike structure, similar to what is seen in
YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ), develops in the optical conductivity at low
temperatures, although in our case it occurs at a higher frequency of
about 600 cm⁻¹. It was shown previously that similar structure may occur
due to interaction of an electron continuum with LO phonons along the c
axis.[7] Indeed, there exists an intense phonon feature at 632 cm⁻¹ in
the c axis loss function.[8]

Integrating the spectral weight under σ₁(ω) from zero to a certain
frequency ω₀ one can obtain the effective density of free carriers
n(ω₀), participating in the electronic processes at an energy scale of
ℏω ≈ ℏ ω₀, multiplied by the ratio of the free-electron mass m_(e) to
the effective carrier mass m^(*). Using this procedure we calculated
n(ω)(m_(e)/m^(*)) for three temperatures (T = 15, 90, and 300 K) and the
results are presented in Fig. 3. One can see that although the
decreasing temperature from T = 300 K to T = 90 K produces
redistribution of the effective carrier density, with part of the
spectral weight shifting towards the low-energy part of the spectrum,
the total carrier density $n_{\rm tot}$ below ∼ 9000 cm⁻¹ remains
unchanged. The value of $n_{\rm tot}\!=\!2.5\times 10^{21}(m^{*}/m_{e})$
cm⁻³ represents the total density of free carriers in this material and
corresponds to about 0.37(m^(*)/m_(e)) holes per one planar Cu atom. The
number of the normal carriers missing in the superconducting state gives
a number of superconducting carriers n_(s). The difference between the
T = 90 K and the T = 15 K curves above 500 cm⁻¹ is shown by the solid
line on Fig. 3 and corresponds to n_(s) = 4.7 × 10²⁰(m^(*)/m_(e)) cm⁻³.
The right-hand vertical axis is scaled in units of penetration depth and
is related to the left-hand one by the equation
λ_(L)² = c²m^(*)/4πn_(s)e² with n_(s) = n(ω). The density of
superconducting carriers given by the solid line corresponds to
λ_(L) = 2400 ± 200 A. The uncertainty comes mainly from the uncertainty
in the low-frequency σ₁(ω) behavior resulting from the unknown
low-frequency reflectivity behavior as discussed above. Many possible
approximations were tried and the range of λ’s found is contained in the
error limits of λ_(L) . The temperature T = 15 K can be considered low
enough compared to the T_(c) to assume that λ_(L)(0) = λ_(L)(15
K)= 2400± 200 A.

The value of n_(s) obtained above is less than half the one obtained in
the muon resonance spectroscopy (μSR) experiments.[13] However, we
believe that our result is more reliable because of the following: (1)
Our calculation is completely model independent and based only on the
sum rule for σ₁(ω). (2) In order to obtain n_(s) = 10²¹(m^(*)/m_(e))
cm⁻³ as in Ref. [13] almost half of the carriers located below the
plasma minimum at 1.1 eV [including the mid-infrared (MIR) contribution]
or _all_ carriers below 300 cm⁻¹ have to condense. This was not observed
in our study on Tl2201 nor has it been observed for any other cuprate
material. (3) Our experiment has been performed on high-quality single
crystals, while only ceramic Tl2201 samples have been studied by the μSR
method so far. Intrinsic inhomogeneity of ceramic samples (grain
boundaries, random orientation of the grains) as well as increased
pinning of the magnetic vortexes may lead to strong distortions of the
vortex lattice, leading to a reduced value of λ_(L).[14]

The London penetration depth value of 2400 A found in this work is
rather large compared to other nearly optimally doped high-T_(c)
cuprates. For example, λ_(L) along the chain-free direction was found to
be 1600 A in YBa₂Cu₃O_(6.95) (Y123) and 2000 A in YBa₂Cu₄O₈ (Y124).[15]
This means that the total density of the in-plane superconducting
carriers in Y124 is about 1.44 times larger and in Y123 is approximately
2.25 times larger compared to that in Tl2201, if a constant effective
mass is assumed. However, the number of superconducting carriers per
planar Cu atom, normalized to the effective mass, is almost the same in
all these materials: 0.08(m^(*)/m_(e)) in Tl2201, 0.09(m^(*)/m_(e)) in
Y123, and 0.07 (m^(*)/m_(e)) in Y124.[16] The difference of 20

A similar discrepancy between σ₁(ω) and $\sigma_{\rm dc}$ observed in
Tl₂Ba₂CaCu₂O₈ thin films has been attributed to zone-centered optical
phonons.[11] However, the large amount of spectral weight involved,
compared to that expected for phonons, puts this explanation in
question. Another possible way to account for the anomalous
low-frequency pseudogaplike feature is to assume that a low-energy
pseudogap exists in the density of states of electronic excitations. In
this case the optical conductivity at frequencies below the

Figure 3: The effective number of carriers obtained by integration of
σ₁(ω) up to a certain frequency, as described in the text, is plotted
against this frequency for different temperatures. Lowering the
temperature from T = 300 K to T = 90 K induces a transfer of the
spectral weight to lower frequencies, leaving the total spectral weight
unchanged. The reduction in the total spectral weight at T = 15 K
reflects the formation of the δ peak at zero frequency, not included in
our integration. On the right-hand vertical axis the London penetration
depth λ_(L)² = c²m^(*)/4πn_(s)e² is plotted for n_(s) = n(ω) from the
left-hand axis. The difference in the spectral weight between T = 90 K
and T = 15 K, shown by the solid curve, corresponds to
n_(s) = 4.7 × 10²⁰ cm⁻³ or λ_(L) = 2400 Å.

pseudogap will be reduced and will be Drude-like only at much higher
frequencies.[18] The pseudogap may originate from a certain degree of
disorder associated with, for example, intrinsic local disordered
octahedral distortions in the TIO layers reported for this and other
Tl-based materials.[19] If these distortions may be regarded as a source
of random potential for the CuO₂ layers, then free carriers in these
layers may be partially localized. In the Pb₂Sr₂(Y/Ca)Cu₃O₈ material a
similar localization may occur due to the randomness of distribution of
the Ca atoms on Y sites.[10] In fact, single crystals of YBa₂Cu₃O_(6.95)
irradiated with low-energy He ions demonstrated a similar decreasing
optical conductivity at low frequencies. Although the irradiation dose
was found to be too low to change the chemical composition of the
samples, local structural damage was expected to occur.[20] We should
note, however, that the dose of irradiation at which the peak appeared
caused a drop of about 13 K in the transition temperature. The
transition temperature of our sample was 88 K, which is about the upper
limit found for this material. Another question that should be clarified
is why the dc conductivity has a metallic temperature dependence despite
the presence of a pseudogap. An alternative way is to assume that the dc
temperature dependence is dominated by a Drude-like free carrier part of
the optical conductivity as shown by the dotted line on Fig. 2 for
T = 300 K. The rest of the spectral weight in this case would be formed
by the MIR component, which does not contribute to the dc properties but
is responsible for the anomalous feature in the low-frequency part of
σ₁(ω). Finally, we believe that more exotic mechanisms for the opening
of the pseudogap, resulting from spin- or charge-density dynamics, for
example, cannot be ruled out at this stage. Evidence for opening of a
spin gap have been obtained in NMR measurements on a T_(c) = 85 K Tl2201
sample at a characteristic temperature of T₀ = 120 K=83 cm⁻¹,[21] which
corresponds roughly to the onset energy of the pseudogap feature in the
optical spectra. It should be noted, however, that indications on the
opening of the spin gap, for example, in Y123, have been obtained
previously only along the c axis.[22]

In conclusion, we report on absolute ab-plane reflectivity measurements
performed in the frequency range of 30-40 000 cm⁻¹ on Tl2201 single
crystals in the normal and the superconducting states. The optical
conductivity was calculated and unusual behavior was found in the
low-frequency part of the spectra. In the superconducting state the
London penetration depth λ_(L)(0) was found to be 2400± 200 A, which is
larger than the μSR result.

We would like to thank C. V. Stager for his help with sample
characterization. This research was supported in part by the National
Science and Engineering Research Council of Canada and by the Canadian
Institute of Advanced Research. S.D. and A.M.H. gratefully acknowledge
the support of the Office of Naval Research under ONR Grant No. N000
14-90-J-157. A.V.P. would like to gratefully acknowledge financial
support from Ontario Centre for Material Research.

## References

* [1] Y. Shimakawa, Physica C **202**, 199 (1992). * [2] T. Zetterer _et
al._, J. Opt. Soc. Am. **6**, 420 (1989). * [3] H. M. Duan, W. Kichl, C.
Dong, A. W. Saeed, D. L. Vear, and A. M. Hermann, Phys. Rev. B **43**,
12 925 (1991). * [4] F. Zuo, D. Vacaru, H. M. Duan, and A. M. Hermann,
Phys. Rev. B **47**, 5535 (1993). * [5] M. Kall, L. Borjesson, C. Strom,
S. Eriksson, and L.-G. Johansson, Physica C **220**, 131 (1994). * [6]
A. M. Hermann, H. M. Duan, W. Kiehl, and M. Paranthaman, Physica C
**209**, 199 (1993). * [7] M. Reedyk and T. Timusk, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**69**, 2705 (1992). * [8] A. V. Puchkov and T. Timusk (unpublished). *
[9] T. Manako, Y. Kubo, and Y. Shimakawa, Phys. Rev. B **46**, 11 019
(1992). * [10] M. Reedyk, Ph.D. thesis, McMaster University, 1992. *
[11] C. M. Foster _et al._, Solid State Commun. **76**, 651 (1990). *
[12] D. B. Tanner and T. Timusk, in _Physical Properties of High
Temperature Superconductors III_, edited by D.M. Ginsberg (World
Scientific, Singapore, 1992), pp. 363−469. * [13] Ch. Niedermayer _et
al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **71**, 1764 (1993); Y. J. Uemura _et al._,
Nature **364**, 605 (1993). * [14] E. H. Brandt, Phys. Rev. B **37**,
2349 (1988). * [15] D. N. Basov _et al._ (unpublished). * [16] To
calculate these values we have used the following structural parameters:
3.9×3.9×23.1 A³ unit cell with two CuO₂ layers for Tl2201, 3.9×3.9×11.7
A³ unit cell with two layers for Y123, and 3.9×3.9×27.2 A³ unit cell
with four layers for Y124. For the reference see Robert M. Hazen, in
_Physical Properties of High Temperature Superconductors II_, edited by
D. M. Ginsberg (World Scientific, Singapore, 1990), pp. 121−198. * [17]
S. D. Obertelli, J. R. Cooper, and J. L. Tallon, Phys. Rev. B **46**, 14
928 (1992); M. R. Presland, J. L. Tallon, R. G. Buckley, R. S. Liu, and
N. E. Flower, Physica C **176**, 95 (1991). * [18] H. K. Ng, M. Capizzi,
G. A. Thomas, R. H. Bhatt, and A. C. Gossard, Phys. Rev. B **33**, 7329
(1986). * [19] N. N. Kolesnikov _et al._, Physica C **195**, 219 (1992);
S. J. L. Billinge and T. Egami, in _Lattice Effects in High-T_(c)
Superconductors_, edited by Y. Bar-Yam, T. Egami, J. Mustre-de Leon, and
A. R. Bishop (World Scientific, Singapore, 1992), p. 93. * [20] D. N.
Basov, A. V. Puchkov, R. A. Hughes, T. Strach, J. Preston, T. Timusk, D.
A. Bonn, R. Liang, and W. N. Hardy, Phys. Rev. B **49**, 12 165
(1994). * [21] S. Kambe, H. Yasuoka, A. Hayashi, and Y. Ueda, Phys. Rev.
B **47**, 2825 (1993). * [22] C. C. Homes, T. Timusk, R. Liang, D. A.
Bonn, and W. N. Hardy, Phys. Rev. Lett. **71**, 1645 (1993).
