Extensive work exists on the effect of chemical substitution on the
properties of La2CuO4. The original work, of course, involved Ba and
other alkaline earth substitutions for La, leading to
superconductivity.1,2 Later, it was found that interstitial oxygen could
introduce hole conductivity into the CuO2 planes and lead to
superconductivity as well.3 On the other hand, for those compositions
which are superconducting, in-plane substitutions were found to have
strong negative effects on T_(c) as well as on conductivity. Quite
generally, such substitutions were found to decrease T_(c) rapidly,
independent of whether or not the substitutions carried a magnetic
moment.4 Zn substitution in particular was found to be deleterious to
T_(c), 3 at.

A particularly interesting in-plane substitution is that of Li (which
has no magnetic moment) for Cu (which has S=$\frac{1}{2}$), Li¹⁺ has an
ionic radius essentially the same as that of Cu2+ [0.74 A vs 0.73 A
(Ref. 5)] and brings a hole with it to the plane. This hole appears to
be localized, and it is interesting to compare in-plane substituted
holes with the mobile ones introduced by out-of-plane substitutions.
Most simply, the question is whether Li is more like Zn (in that it is
an in-plane dopant) or like Sr (in that it is a hole donor) as a
substitutional element in La2CuO4. There has been considerable
experimental work already reported on Li substitution in La2CuO4.6-10
Our aim has been to understand the apparent loss of Cu magnetic moment
due to Li substitution and its relationship to the effect of Li
substitution on the superconducting properties of La1.85Sr0.15CuO4.
We,9,10 following and expanding on the earlier work,6-8 have shown that
Li is more like Sr than like Zn and that the "hole physics" appears to
be the dominant effect in this substitution. Here, we present a more
complete analysis of the similarities and differences between Li and Sr
as dopants in La2CuO4, comparing our Li-substitution work with what is
known from the literature about La2-xSrCuO4.

Although it has been possible to grow single crystals over a limited
range of Li concentrations,11 all of the data reported here were taken
with polycrystalline samples. The sintered specimens were synthesized
using standard ceramic preparation techniques. The appropriate
stoichiometric amounts of La2O3, SrCO3, CuO, and Li2CO3 were mixed and
fired at 900 degC over a multiday period with several intermediate
re-grindings. The rather low sintering temperature was dictated by the
volatility of Li2O; however, no appreciable Li losses were observed in
our specimens. x-ray powder diffraction revealed the samples to be
essentially single phase, and structural refinements based on neutron
powder diffraction data indicated that all of the Li was incorporated in
a given sample (i.e., the refined occupation of the Li sites was
consistent with the nominal Li concentration). Li has a negative
scattering length for neutrons whereas Cu’s is positive so good
concentration resolution is possible in the refinements. In all cases
where comparisons could be made, the properties of the polycrystalline
samples were consistent with those obtained with single crystals.

The phase purity of all samples was verified using x-ray powder
diffraction, and the lattice constants of a given sample were refined
using a least-squares minimization from the observed _hkl_’s, with Si
used as an internal standard. Electrical resistivity measurements were
made in the four-probe van der Pauw configuration using dc excitation.
Magnetic susceptibility measurements were made using a Quantum Design
superconducting quantum interference device magnetometer.

Neutron powder diffraction data were collected using the HB4
high-resolution powder diffractometer at the High-Flux Isotope Reactor
at ORNL. This instrument has a Ge (115) monochromator which selects an
incident neutron wave length of 1.5 A. The neutron wavelength was
determined more precisely to be 1.4993(2) A on the basis of unit cell
refinements for the NIST Standard Reference Material Si 640b. The
samples were placed in vanadium cans and cooled in a displex
refrigerator for data collection at temperatures between 15 and 295 K
over the 2_th_ range of 11deg to 135deg. Input for the Rietveld
refinement program was prepared by interpolating a constant step-size
data set from the raw data, and the software package GSAS (Ref. [12])
was used for the structural refinements. Further details of the
structural refinements will be presented elsewhere;[13] here, we focus
only on the evolution of the lattice constants with temperature and Li
concentration and note that the full structural refinements are
consistent with the earlier work of Attfield and Ferey.[7]

In Fig. 1 we show the lattice constants of La2Cu1-xLiO4 for various x
refined from our neutron powder diffraction data at low temperature
together with the earlier data of Attfield and Ferey.[7] The data for
the two studies are in excellent agreement. The orthorhombic-tetragonal
transition (indicated by the merging of the two distinct in-plane
lattice constants) occurs near x = 0.3, and the _c_-axis lattice
constant shows very little change over the full range of Li
concentrations. We see no evidence for the short-range order (as
indicated by broad superlattice peaks in the diffraction pattern) at
intermediate Li concentrations reported by Rykov _et al._.[6] For
comparison similar data for La2-ySrCuO4 by Radaelli _et al.[14]_ are
shown. The in-plane lattice constants are essentially identical in the
two cases, whereas the _c_-axis behavior is qualitatively different.

The behavior of the _c_-axis lattice parameter, c, with Sr and Li
substitution may explain the different solubility limits for the two
dopants. The maximum Sr concentration which can be accommodated is near
0.35 (Ref. [14]) and samples with y > 0.20 are rather difficult to
synthesize cleanly.[15] For Sr substitution c appears to saturate near y
= 0.25, suggesting a solubility problem. On the other hand, the
variation of c with Li is small and essentially linear up to and
including the point (_x_ = 0.5, y = 0) at which Cu and Li form an
ordered superlattice. Thus, it would appear that the structural effects
in the out-of-plane direction limit solubility rather than an in-plane
hole-concentration effect.

The similarity in the in-plane lattice constants for La2Cu1-xLiO4 and
La2-ySrCuO4 is rather surprising. The La ion is located away from the
CuO2 plane, and the replacement of La with Sr introduces an appreciable
size mismatch [Sr2+ is approximately 10

The scaling of the in-plane lattice constant with hole count can be seen
most clearly in Fig. 2. Several series of samples were synthesized with
varying Sr and/or Li concentration, and their in-plane lattice constants
were determined using x-ray powder diffraction. (The Sr-only data are
again the neutron results of Radaelli _et al.[14]_) The data for the
in-plane lattice parameters collapse onto one plot versus hole count:
the effect of Sr or Li addition is essentially identical structurally.
It appears that the introduced hole has a particular size independent of
its origin or whether or not the hole is mobile. Perhaps the way to
think about the contraction of the in-plane lattice parameter with hole
addition is as a relaxation about the hole in the highly negatively
charged CuO2 background. This may also provide a framework within which
to understand the asymptotic behavior of superconducting T_(c) when
plotted against in-plane lattice constant for

Figure 1: Out-of-plane (upper panel) and in-plane (lower panel) lattice
constants at low temperature for La2Cu1−xLiO4 [squares (_T_ = 15 K),
this work; triangles (_T_ = 5 K), after Ref. [7] and La2−ySrCuO4
[diamonds (_T_ = 10 K), after Ref. [14]].

various cuprate superconductors.[16]

In the inset of Fig. 3, we show the suppression of the antiferromagnetic
ordering temperature, T_(N), as determined by the peak in magnetic
susceptibility. Sr and Li have nearly identical effects on the magnetic
phase diagram of La₂CuO₄: the long-range magnetic order of the Cu
moments is lost when the hole count in the CuO₂ plane reaches 0.03.[6]
Similar to the Sr case, one must be careful to remove any excess oxygen
from these samples in order to accurately determine T_(N). Excess
oxygen, because it too introduces holes to the CuO₂ planes, reduces
T_(N) at the same rate as Sr or Li.[17] The suppression of T_(N) with Li
substitution contrasts strongly with the effect of the in-plane
isovalent dopants Zn or Mg. For both of these substitutions, the
three-dimensional magnetic ordering temperature is depressed at nearly
but less than the percolation rate, with roughly 30

The evolution of the temperature-dependent magnetic susceptibility at
intermediate and high Li concentrations is shown in Fig. 3. Our data are
qualitatively and quantitatively similar to that of Rykov _et al.[6]_
The susceptibility evolves with increasing Li concentration from
Curie-Weiss-like to, aside from a small and sample-dependent extrinsic
Curie tail, temperature-independent diamagnetism for
La₂Cu_(0.5)Li_(0.5)O₄. The magnitude of the diamagnetism at room
temperature (−60×10⁻⁶ emu/mol) is consistent with the expected core
diamagnetism and van Vleck paramagnetism,[6, 20] so that, despite the
presence of a Cu²⁺ (S=$\frac{1}{2}$) sublattice, no spin susceptibility
is observed. Although the Cu is formally trivalent here, the stability
of the material suggests that the diamagnetism is unlikely to be a
property of Cu³⁺. Furthermore, Yoshinari _et al.[21]_ have reported,
using Cu NQR relaxation measurements, the observation of a magnetic
excitation with an activation energy near 1500 K. These data are more
easily understood by assuming that Cu possesses a spin (i.e., is Cu²⁺)
that is compensated in some sort of singlet rather than by assuming a
trivalent Cu configuration.

The evolution of the magnetic susceptibility of La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄ for
intermediate and high Sr concentrations (i.e., y≈0.05) is qualitatively
different.[22] The susceptibility in pure and Sr-doped La₂CuO₄ is
characterized by a broad peak as a function of temperature which moves
to lower temperature as the Sr concentration is increased. By
normalizing the data for various y with respect to a scaling temperature
$T_{\rm max}$, proportional to the intralayer Cu-Cu coupling constant J,
the susceptibilities can be made to overlap and are in good agreement
with calculation.[22] Thus, the dominant effect of the Sr-produced holes
is to reduce J and thereby shift the peak in susceptibility to lower
temperature. No such peak is observed in our Li-doped La₂CuO₄ data.
Although we do not have a quantitative understanding of these
differences, it seems probable that the differences are due to the
defects in the CuO₂ planes which Li introduces–the effect of which may
be to mask the above-mentioned peak and to the finite screening length
of the bound Li holes.

The room temperature and temperature-dependent resistivity as a function
of Li concentration is shown in Fig. 4. La₂CuO₄Li_(0.5)O₄ is extremely
resistive [ρ(300 K)=1 kΩ cm] and we were thus able to accurately measure
the resistivity over only a limited temperature range; no decrease in
resistivity, however, is observed to 5 K. These results confirm the
earlier data of Kastner _et al.[8]_ The resistance of the samples
increases substantially with decreasing temperature for all Li
concentrations. Because the temperature dependence of the resistance is
neither simply activated nor that appropriate to variable range hopping,
a quantitative interpretation of the data is not obvious. It is clear,
however, that, unlike the case of Sr substitution,[23] Li-doped La₂CuO₄
is neither metallic nor superconducting.

The evolution of the room-temperature resistivity with Li concentration
is remarkable. We observe a drop in resistivity of more than one order
of magnitude from x=0 to x=0.15, a broad minimum in resistivity from
x=0.15 to x=0.30, and a rapid divergence in resistivity for higher Li
concentrations. The concentration dependence of the room-temperature re

Figure 4: Normalized resistance as a function of temperature for
La₂Cu_(1 − x)Li_(x)O₄ for various values of x. The inset shows the room
temperature resistivity as a function of Li concentration. Note that the
values for x=0.4 and x=0.5 have been reduced by a factor of 10 and 1000,
respectively, to bring them on scale.

Figure 3: Magnetic susceptibility (in units of emu/mole-formula unit) as
a function of temperature for La₂Cu_(1 − x)Li_(x)O₄ for various values
of x. The inset shows the suppression of $T_{\rm Neel}$ with Li
substitution.

sistivity for Sr-doped La₂CuO₄ is qualitatively similar. Initially, the
resistivity drops even more rapidly, reaching 1.2 mΩ cm for Sr=0.15, but
then remains relatively constant for higher Sr concentrations
ρ(Sr=0.30)=0.7 mΩ cm.[23] Qualitatively, these results can be understood
as a competition between increased carrier concentration and CuO₂-plane
disorder, with the conductivity in the Li case roughly tracking the Sr
case until a percolation network of Li ions is formed, leading to a
divergence in resistivity. Measurements of the thermopower and/or Hall
effect for La₂Cu_(1 − x)Li_(x)O₄ would be useful in determining if a
change in the sign of the carriers, as happens for high Sr
concentrations, also occurs for Li substitution.

Because the suppression of T_(c) in optimally doped
La_(1.85)Sr_(0.15)CuO₄ with Li substitution is rather slow (dT_(c)dx=4
K/

We have performed a detailed study of the structural, magnetic, and
transport properties of Li-doped La₂CuO₄. Although the holes produced by
Li substitution are bound, they have an effect on the structure and
magnetism in La₂CuO₄ that is remarkably similar to that due to Sr
substitution. The principal differences between Sr and Li substitution
are the temperature dependence of the magnetic susceptibility at
intermediate doping levels and, of course, the absence of
superconductivity in the Li case. These differences may be due solely to
the disorder which Li introduces into the two-dimensional CuO₂ plane,
but further theoretical study is warranted to ensure that the physics is
that simple.

We thank N. E. Bonesteel, E. Dagotto, P. C. Hammel, and R. L. Martin for
many useful conversations. The NHMFL is supported by the NSF and the
State of Florida through cooperative agreement DMR-9016241. Work at LANL
was performed under the auspices of the U.S. Dept. of Energy. ORNL is
managed by Lockheed Martin Energy Research for the U.S. Dept. of Energy
under Contract No. DE-AC05-96OR22464.

## References

* [1] J. G. Bednorz and K. A. Muller, Z. Phys. B **64**, 189 (1986). *
[2] R. J. Cava _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **58**, 408 (1987). * [3] J.
E. Schirber _et al._, Physica C **152**, 121 (1988). * [4] G. Xiao _et
al._, Phys. Rev. B **42**, 8752 (1990). * [5] R. D. Shannon and C. T.
Prewitt, Acta Cryst. B **25**, 925 (1969). * [6] A. I. Rykov, H.
Yasouka, and Y. Ueda, Physica C **247**, 327 (1995). * [7] J. P.
Attfield and G. Ferey, J. Solid State Chem. **80**, 112 (1989). * [8] M.
A. Kastner _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **37**, 1111 (1988). * [9] J. L.
Sarrao _et al._, in _Proceedings of the PPHMF-II Conference_, edited by
Z. Fisk, L. P. Gor’kov, D. Meltzer, and J. R. Schrieffer (World
Scientific, Singapore, 1996), p. 139. * [10] J. L. Sarrao _et al._, in
_Proceedings of the TCSUH 10th Anniversary Workshop_, edited by C. W.
Chu and K. A. Muller (World Scientific, Singapore, in press). * [11] Li
concentrations, x, of 0≤x≈0.1 have been achieved using CuO fluxes, and
Li concentrations of 0.1≤x≈0.2 have been achieved with Li₂O-B₂O₃
fluxes. * [12] A. C. Larson and R. B. Von Dreele (unpublished). * [13]
E. Moshopoulou _et al._ (unpublished). * [14] P. G. Radaelli _et al._,
Phys. Rev. B **49**, 4163 (1994). * [15] H. Takagi _et al._, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **68**, 3777 (1992). * [16] Z. Fisk and J. L. Sarrao, J. Phys.
Chem. Solids **56**, 1891 (1995). * [17] H. Kageyama _et al._, J. Phys.
Soc. Jpn. **64**, 2144 (1995). * [18] S.-W. Cheong _et al._, Phys. Rev.
B **44**, 9739 (1991). * [19] L. P. Le, R. H. Hefner, D. E. MacLaughlin,
K. Kojima, G. M. Luke, B. Nachumi, Y. J. Uemura, J. L. Sarrao, and Z.
Fisk, Phys. Rev. B **54**, 9538 (1996). * [20] B. Batlogg (private
communication). * [21] Y. Yoshinari _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **72**,
2069 (1996). * [22] D. C. Johnston, Phys. Rev. Lett. **62**, 957
(1989). * [23] H. Takagi _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **69**, 2975 (1992).
