# Superconductivity in WP single crystals

Ziyi Liu, Wei Wu, Zhenzheng Zhao, Hengcan Zhao, Jian Cui, Pengfei Shan,
Jiahao Zhang, Changli Yang, Peijie Sun, Yuan Wei, Shiliang Li, Jinggeng
Zhao, Yu Sui, Jianguang Cheng, Li Lu, Jianlin Luo, Guangtong Liu.

welyman@iphy.ac.cn Beijing National Laboratory for Condensed Matter
Physics, Institute of Physics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing
100190, China Department of Physics, Harbin Institute of Technology,
Harbin, Heilongjiang 150001, China Songshan Lake Materials Laboratory,
Dongguan, Guangdong 523808, China University of Chinese Academy of
Sciences, Beijing 100049, China Collaborative Innovation Center of
Quantum Matter, Beijing 100871, China

###### Abstract

We report the discovery of superconductivity in high-quality single
crystals of transition-metal pnictides WP grown by chemical vapor
transport method. Bulk superconductivity is observed at T_(c) ∼ 0.8 K at
ambient pressure by electrical resistivity, ac magnetic susceptibility,
and specific-heat measurements. The effects of magnetic field on the
superconducting transitions are studied, leading to a large anisotropy
parameter around 2 with the in-plane and out-of-plane upper critical
fields of μ₀H_(c2,1) = 17.2 mT and μ₀H_(c2,1) = 8.5 mT, respectively.
The low value of electron-phonon coupling estimated from the
normal-state resistivity and specific-heat measurements suggest that WP
is a weak-coupling BCS superconductor. Our finding demonstrates that WP
is the first superconductor among 5d-transition metal pnictides with
MnP-type structure at ambient pressure, which will help in the search
for new superconductors in transition-metal pnictides.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.99.184509

## I Introduction

The novel and intriguing behaviors in transition metal pnictides have
long attracted the attention of researchers due to multiple quantum
orders and competing phenomena. One of the examples is the recently
discovered pressure-induced superconductivity in CrAs and MnP [1, 2, 3,
4]. At ambient conditions, both CrAs and MnP adopt the MnP-type (B31)
structure, belonging to the large family of transition metal pnictides
with a general formula MX (M = transition metal, X = P, As, Sb). Most of
the MX compounds crystallize in either the hexagonal NiAs-type structure
or the orthorhombic MnP-type structure, for which the latter is a
distorted structure of the former with small shifts of atomic positions
[5].

By analyzing the structures of these phosphides as a function of the
electron number per formula unit, Tremel _et al._[6] found that the
MnP-type phases can only exist in the transition metal phosphide
compounds with the number of valence electrons ranging from 11 to 14,
such as CrP, MnP, FeP, CoP, RuP, WP, and IrP. Among these phosphides,
MnP and FeP are metals with a unique magnetic structure consisting of a
helical arrangement of spins with net antiferromagnetic ordering [7, 8].
CrP and CoP are normal metals with Fermi-liquid ground states [9, 10].
RuP is a metal of 4d-transitional metal phosphides with charge-density
wave (CDW) order [11]. Compared to that of 3d-transitional metal
phosphides, the relatively wide energy band and the extended wave
function in 5d-transition metal pnictides, such as WP and IrP, lead to a
smaller density of states (DOS) and more overlap of 5d orbital.
Therefore, the electrons are itinerant and no magnetic ordering was
observed in 5d-transition metal pnictides [12].

To date, superconductivity is found only in pressurized-MnP and Rh-doped
RuP among phosphide compounds [11]. Moreover, the similarity of the
superconducting phase diagrams between CrAs/MnP and Fe/Cu-based
superconductors points to possible unconventional superconductivity [13,
14]. Therefore, it is of high interest to explore whether intrinsic
superconductivity at ambient pressure can be achieved in the MnP family.

Here we report superconductivity in high-quality WP single crystals at
ambient pressure as an example in the MnP family. The electrical
resistivity, ac magnetic susceptibility, and specific-heat measurements
revealed a bulk superconductivity with T_(c) ∼ 0.8 K. The
magnetotransport measurements showed that upper critical fields have an
anisotropy parameter of around 2. The low value of electron-phonon
coupling estimated from the normal-state resistivity and specific-heat
measurements suggest that WP is a weak coupling BCS superconductor.

## II Experimental details

The polycrystalline samples were prepared using a conventional
solid-state reaction method. Stoichiometric amounts of W and P powders
were mixed thoroughly and pressed into pellets. The pellets were then
sealed in an evacuated quartz tube. Considering the fact that red
phosphorus sublimates at about ∼416 degC and tungsten reacts with
oxygen, sulfur, and nitrogen higher than 400 degC, the sealed ampoule
was heated to 400 degC over 10 h and kept for 20 h, then heated to 1000
degC over 40 h and kept for about 3 days at this temperature before
cooling down to room temperature. WP crystallizes in an orthorhombic
structure with space group _Pnma_ (no. 62), as illustrated in Fig. 1(a).
The crystal structure of the compound was verified by Rietveld
refinement [15] of a powder x-ray diffraction (XRD) pattern collected on
polycrystalline WP at ambient conditions. As shown in Fig. 1(c), all the
diffraction peaks can be well indexed to the orthorhombic phase WP
(space group _Pnma_) with lattice parameters a = 5.7222(6) A,
b = 3.2434(9) A, and c = 6.2110(6) A, which are in good agreement with
previously reported values [16-18].

Due to the high melting point of WP, it is very difficult to grow WP
single crystals using conventional melting technique, such as the
Bridgman method. For the growth of WP single crystals, we employed the
chemical vapor transport (CVT) method which has been successfully used
to grow pnictides such as CrP, MoP, NbP, and TaP [19-21]. The well-mixed
starting materials of iodine (0.1 g) and WP polycrystalline powders (0.5
g) were placed at one end of a quartz tube with a diameter of 2 cm and a
length of 20 cm. Then the tube was sealed under high vacuum and placed
in a two-zone furnace with a temperature gradient from 1100 degC (source
end) to 1050 degC (sink end) for one week followed by slowly heating the
sink end to 1150 degC over a 1-month period. This process is the key to
obtain WP single crystals and we call it a "sink-source reverse" method.
After this process, the furnace was naturally cooled to room temperature
by turning off the power. Finally, shiny needlelike single crystals were
found at the source end. By this method, we successfully synthesized the
large single crystals of WP with a typical dimension of 0.1 × 0.1 × 4.0
mm³ as shown in Fig. 1(b). The b-axis direction relative to the crystal
morphology was determined from a single crystal lying on a beveled
silicon slice on a powder diffractometer. The XRD pattern in the inset
of Fig. 1(c) shows only (l00) peaks with no impurities, indicating the
high quality of WP single crystals and the b axis is parallel to the
needle-shaped sample. The chemical compositions of the single crystals
were determined by a scanning electron microscope (SEM) with an energy
dispersive x-ray spectrometer (EDS). The atomic ratio between W and P is
found to be 49.49 : 50.51, indicating that the as-prepared single
crystals have the composition W : P = 1 : 1.

The electrical resistivity was measured with the conventional four-probe
method using a Quantum Design physical property measurement system
(PPMS) from 300 to 2 K. For temperatures below 2 K, the experiments were
performed on a top-loading He3 refrigerator with a superconducting
magnet up to 15 T. ac magnetic susceptibility was measured by a mutual
inductance coil. The sample and a similar volume piece of lead (Pb) were
put into the coil and fixed by glue. The diamagnetic signal due to the
superconductivity transition was estimated by comparing with the
diamagnetic signal of Pb. An excitation current of 0.5 mA with a
frequency of 1117 Hz was applied to the primary coil and output signal
across two oppositely wound secondary coils was picked up with a
Standford Research SR830 lock-in amplifier.

## III Results and Discussions

Figure 2(a) shows the temperature dependence of electrical resistivity
measured on three typical WP single crystals (S1, S2, and S3) between
300 and 0.3 K in zero field. The WP has a normal-state resistivity ∼40
μΩ cm at room temperature with a residual resistivity ratio (RRR)
defined as R(300 K)/R(1.5 K) of ∼37. A linear dependence of resistivity
ρ(T) on temperature has been observed in the temperature range from 300
to 60 K. Then ρ(T) further decreases to a temperature-independent
constant as the temperature reduced to 1.5 K, indicating that WP has a
metallic conduction property. As the sample is further cooled, ρ(T)
drops steeply at about 0.85 K, signaling the onset of superconductivity.
From the upper left inset of Fig. 2(a), it can be seen that the
superconducting transitions for these three samples are very sharp.
Especially for sample S3, the transition width is less than 20 mK,
indicative of the high quality of the sample. It should be noted that
the different transition behaviors of these three samples are probably
due to the different sample qualities [22,23]. If we define the
superconducting transition temperature $T_{\rm c}$ as the temperature at
the midpoint of the resistive transition, it is found that $T_{\rm c}$
for these samples are very close, ranging from 0.834 and 0.840 K,
further demonstrating the samples are uniform and of high quality.

The superconducting transition in WP single crystals is further
characterized by the low-temperature ac susceptibility measurement.
Figure 2(b) shows the magnetic field

Figure 1: Structural characterization of WP. (a) Crystal structure of
WP. (b) An optical image of the as-grown WP single crystals on a 1 mm ×
1 mm grid. (c) Room-temperature x-ray diffraction (XRD) spectra and the
Rietveld refinement of polycrystalline WP. The open circle, solid line,
and lower solid line represent experimental, calculated, and difference
XRD patterns, respectively. The inset shows the XRD pattern for WP
single crystals.

dependence of ac susceptibility χ^(^(′)) at 0.3 K. As the external
magnetic field H decreases to 0.1 T, a broad diamagnetic signal
corresponding to the superconductivity of Pb is observed. Then when the
magnetic field approaches H = 11 mT, another large diamagnetic signal
was detected, which is ascribed to the superconductivity of WP.
Moreover, the field is in good agreement with the upper critical field
measurement which will be shown in the following section. Compared to
Pb, the signal of χ^(^(′)) from WP is much stronger and sharper, further
demonstrating the high quality of the WP single crystals.

To further elucidate the bulk superconductivity in WP single crystals,
we have carried out the specific-heat measurement with the dilution
refrigerator down to 0.2 K. The result is shown in Fig. 3. A clear
specific-heat jump can be observed at T_(c) ∼ 0.8 K, demonstrating that
bulk superconductivity is achieved. Moreover, the T_(c) observed in the
specific-heat data is very consistent with that determined from the
electrical resistivity measurement.

To explore the superconducting phase diagram of WP single crystals, the
temperature-dependent resistance R(T) is systematically measured under
different external applied magnetic fields. The inset of Fig. 4(a) shows
the corresponding results for sample S3 under the magnetic field from 0
to 12.5 mT. As the magnetic field increases, the superconducting
transition temperature T_(c) shifts to lower temperature and the
superconductivity is completely suppressed at μ₀H = 12.5 mT. Figure 4(a)
summarizes the upper critical field μ₀H_(c2) as a function of
temperature T_(c), where T_(c) is defined as the temperature at the
midpoint of the resistive transition. A linear temperature dependence is
observed for μ₀H_(c2), which can be well fitted by the
Werthamer-Helfand-Hohenberg (WHH) equation given by

$$\mu_{0}H_{\text{c2}}(0)=AT_{\text{c}}\frac{d\mu_{0}H_{\text{c2}}}{dT}|_{T=T_{ \text{c}}},$$
(1)

where A is −0.693. As shown by the dashed lines, the best fittings yield
μ₀H_(c2)(0) = 11.8, 9.0, and 12.5 mT for samples S1, S2, and S3,
respectively. A similar observation has been made in MnP [4]. The
obtained μ₀H_(c2)(0) allows us to estimate the Ginzburg-Landau coherence
length ξ = 1642 A according to the relationship μ₀H_(c2)(0) = Φ₀/2π ξ²,
where Φ₀ = 2.067 × 10⁻¹⁵ Wb is the magnetic-flux quantum.

The anisotropic upper critical field of WP single crystals is confirmed
by the experiments with tilted magnetic field. The upper left inset of
Fig. 4(b) shows the angular dependent R(H) at 0.3 K, where θ is the tilt
angle between the normal of the sample plane and the direction of the
applied magnetic field [right lower inset of Fig. 4(b)]. The
superconducting transition shifts to higher field with the external
magnetic field rotating from the perpendicular (θ = 0^(∘)) to parallel
(θ = 90^(∘)) direction. Figure 4(b) plots the upper critical field
μ₀H_(c2) extracted from the inset of Fig. 4(b) as a function of the
tilted angle θ. Clearly, the out-of-plane upper critical field
μ₀H_(c2, ⊥) is much smaller than the in-plane upper critical field
μ₀H_(c2, ∥), demonstrating strong anisotropic transport properties in WP
single crystals.

To access the superconducting mechanism of WP, we first performed
fitting the normal state resistivity with the Bloch-Gruneisen function
[24],

$$\rho(T)=\rho(0)+A\left(\frac{T}{\Theta_{\text{D}}}\right)^{5}\int_{0}^{\Theta _{0}/T}\frac{x^{5}}{(e^{\ast}-1)(1-e^{-x})}\,dx,$$
(2)

where A is a constant and Θ_(D) is an effective Debye temperature. From
the lower right inset of Fig. 2(a), one can see that the experimental
data can be well described by the Bloch-Gruneisen function. The best fit
gives the Debye temperature Θ_(D) = 238 K, from which the
electron-phonon coupling strength λ_(cp) can be estimated from the
McMillan

Figure 3: Low-temperature specific heat of WP single crystals plotted as
C/T vs T² at zero field. The inset shows temperature dependence of
normalized electronic specific heat C_(e)/T.

Figure 2: Superconductivity characterization in WP single crystals. (a)
Temperature-dependent resistivity ρ(T) for three typical WP single
crystals (S1, S2, and S3) between 300 and 0.3 K in zero external
magnetic field. The upper left inset is an enlarged view of
superconducting transitions at low temperatures. The lower right inset
shows the comparison between the experimental data and the fitting
result with the Bloch-Gruneisen function. (b) ac magnetic susceptibility
for WP single crystals measured at 0.3 K. The inset is a schematic
diagram of the ac magnetic susceptibility measurement setup.

formula [25],

$$\lambda_{\rm ep}=\frac{1.04+\mu^{*}{\rm In}\big{(}\frac{\Theta_{\rm 0}}{1.45T_{\rm c}} \big{)}}{(1-0.62\mu^{*}){\rm In}\big{(}\frac{\Theta_{\rm 0}}{1.45T_{\rm c}}\big{)}-1.04},$$
(3)

where μ^(*) is the repulsive screened Coulomb potential and is assigned
a value in the range 0.1-0.15. Setting μ^(*) = 0.13 and
$T_{\rm c}\sim 0.84$ K, the $\lambda_{\rm ep}$ is calculated to be
0.453. On the other hand, $\lambda_{\rm ep}$ can be extracted from the
specific-heat measurement. From the inset of Fig. 3, we can see that the
normalized specific-heat jump at $T_{\rm c}$ is found to be
$C_{\rm c}/\gamma_{\rm n}T_{\rm c}=1.54$. If the relation of
$C_{\rm c}/\gamma_{\rm n}T_{\rm c}=(1.43+0.942\lambda_{\rm ep}^{2}-0.195\lambda _{\rm qp}^{3})$
is adopted, $\lambda_{\rm ep}$ is estimated to be 0.365, close to the
value of 0.453 extracted from the normal-state electrical resistivity.
The small electron-phonon coupling is consistent with the BCS prediction
for weak-coupling superconductivity. Furthermore, the small normal-state
electronic coefficient $\gamma_{\rm n}\!=\!1.355$ mJ/mol K² determined
from the specific-heat measurement indicates that WP has a relatively
low density of states, in agreement with the earlier theoretical results
[26], which accounts for the low transition temperature with
$T_{\rm c}\sim 0.8$ K.

In order to understand the superconductivity observed in WP, it is
necessary to compare the interatomic distances between the nearest
cations and the orbital overlap in the MnP-type (B31) structure
including CrAs, CrP, and WP. As illustrated in Fig. 5, the transitional
metal atom has three nearest-neighbor metal atoms. Apparently, the
largest interatomic distance is the b-axis length, which determines the
physical properties of the MnP-type compounds. Goodenough successfully
explained the magnetic properties of the MnP-type (B31) structure by
introducing the crystal-field and ligand field theory [27, 28]. At
ambient pressure, CrAs has a relatively large b-axis length of b = 3.445
A that leads to a small 3d-orbital overlap between d_(x² − y²) bands,
therefore, the 3d electrons are localized which accounts for the
magnetic ordering in CrAs. However, as the b-axis length decreases to a
critical value $b_{\rm c}=3.37$ A under a pressure of P = 1.0 GPa [5],
the larger orbital overlap between 3d_(x² − y²) makes CrAs adopt a
collective state of the electrons without magnetic ordering and
superconductivity emerges. As P increases to 5.0 GPa, b is further
reduced and the superconductivity disappears. The b-axis length of CrP
is only 3.11 A [29], which is equivalent to that of CrAs under P = 15.0
GPa [30], and no superconductivity was observed. This indicates that the
variation of the b-axis length plays an important role in determining
the physical properties of MnP-type compounds. Compared to the
pressure-driven superconducting CrAs and normal metal CrP, the
intermediate b-axis length of b = 3.25 A in WP, as shown in Fig. 5,
suggests that superconductivity may emerge. On the other hand, according
to Matthias rule [31], the superconductivity prefers to emerge at a peak
density of states (DOS) at the Fermi level. However, CrP has a diplike
DOS [6, 30],

Figure 4: (a) Upper critical field $H_{\rm c2}$ vs temperature phase
diagram of WP single crystals. The dashed lines denote the
Werthamer-Helfand-Hohenberg (WHH) fits to sample S1, S2, and S3,
respectively. Inset: Temperature dependence of the resistance of sample
S3 in different perpendicular magnetic fields. (b) Angular dependence of
the upper critical field $\mu_{0}H_{\rm c2}$ for sample S1. The left
upper inset shows the magnetic field dependence of the resistance for
sample S1 measured at T = 0.3 K with different tilt angle θ. The right
lower inset shows the scheme of our tilt experimental setup.

Figure 5: Cation sublattice of unit cell of WP with the indicated
distances between the tungsten atoms. The components of d_(x² − y²)
along the b and c axis are represented by the blue and yellow lobes,
respectively.

which contradicts the Matthias rule. Additionally, CrP is far away from
spin fluctuation dome. Combining the above two facts, it can be
understood why CrP is not a superconductor. Compared to Pauli
paramagnetism observed in CrP [5], WP exhibits diamagnetism in a broad
range near room temperature [10]; this implies that the band-structure
effect decreases the effective mass m^(*) and Landau diamagnetism
dominates the magnetic susceptibility. In comparison with 3d electrons
in CrAs, 5d electrons in WP have an extended wave function and larger
orbital overlap indicated by the blue lobes; this may be associated with
the superconductivity observed in WP.

Very recently, WP was predicted to be a topological high-symmetry line
semimetal when spin-orbit coupling (SOC) was considered [32]. So more
experiments need to be carried out to establish the relationship of
superconductivity and topological structure in WP.

## IV Conclusions

In summary, high-quality WP single crystals were successfully prepared
by chemical vapor transport method. Combining the electrical
resistivity, ac magnetic susceptibility, and specific-heat measurements,
we demonstrated that WP is an intrinsic superconductor with T_(c) ∼ 0.8
K in MnP-type family at ambient pressure. Additionally, WP is a
superconductor in 5d-transition metal phosphides. Therefore, our study
offers a platform to study the superconducting mechanism and may shed
light to search for new superconductors in MnP-type compounds.

###### Acknowledgements.

This work was supported by the National Basic Research Program of China
(Grants No. 2016YFA0300600, No. 2017YFA0302901, No. 2015CB921101, and
No. 2015CB921300), the National Natural Science Foundation of China
(Grants No. 11874406, No. 11674375, and No. 11634015), and the Strategic
Priority Research Program of the Chinese Academy of Sciences (Grants No.
XDB07020200, No. XDB25000000, and No. QYZDB-SSW-SLH013). Z.Y.L. and W.W.
contributed equally to this work.

## References

* [1] W. Wu, J.-G. Cheng, K. Matsubayashi, P. Kong, F. Lin, C. Jin, N.
Wang, Y. Uwatoko, and J. Luo, Nat. Commun. **5**, 5508 (2014). * [2] H.
Kotegawa, S. Nakahara, H. Tou, and H. Sugawara, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn.
**83**, 093702 (2014). * [3] H. Kotegawa, S. Nakahara, R. Akamatsu, H.
Tou, H. Sugawara, and H. Harima, Phys. Rev. Lett. **114**, 117002
(2015). * [4] J.-G. Cheng, K. Matsubayashi, W. Wu, J. P. Sun, F. K. Lin,
J. L. Luo, and Y. Uwatoko, Phys. Rev. Lett. **114**, 117001 (2015). *
[5] K. Motizuki, H. Ido, T. Itoh, and M. Morifuji, _Electronic Structure
and Magnetism of 3d-Transition Metal Pnictides_, Springer Series in
Materials Science (Springer-Verlag, Berlin, 2010). * [6] W. Tremel, R.
Hoffmann, and J. Silvestre, J. Am. Chem. Soc. **108**, 5174 (1986). *
[7] C. C. Becerra, N. F. Oliveira, and A. C. Migliano, J. Appl. Phys.
**63**, 3092 (1988). * [8] B. Westerstrandh, L. Lundgren, U. Galfvertl,
and B. Carlssona, Phys. Scr. **15**, 276 (1977). * [9] T. Nozie, H.
Kobayashi, H. Yamagami, T. Suzuki, and T. Kamimura, J. Magn. Soc. Jpn.
**23**, 430 (1999). * [10] We measured electrical resistivity and dc
magnetic susceptibility of single crystals of CoP and WP. * [11] D.
Hirai, T. Takayama, D. Hashizume, and H. Takagi, Phys. Rev. B **85**,
140509(R) (2012). * [12] B. W. Roberts, _Superconductive Materials and
Some of Their Properties_ (National Bureau of Standards, Washington, DC,
1969). * [13] J. G. Bednorz and K. A. Muller, Z. Phys. B **64**, 189
(1986). * [14] Y. Kamihara, T. Watanabe, M. Hirano, and H. Hosono, J.
Am. Chem. Soc. **130**, 3296 (2008). * [15] L. B. McCusker, R. B. Von
Dreele, D. E. Cox, D. Louer, and P. Scardi, J. Appl. Crystallogr.
**32**, 36 (1999). * [16] S. Rundqvist and T. Lundstrom, Acta. Chem.
Scand. **17**, 37 (1963). * [17] J. Martin and R. Gruehn, Solid State
Ionics **43**, 19 (1990). * [18] R. Guerin, M. Sergent, and J. Prigent,
Mat. Res. Bull. **10**, 957 (1975). * [19] S. Motojima and T. Higashi,
J. Cryst. Growth. **71**, 639 (1985). * [20] L. X. Yang, Z. K. Liu, Y.
Sun, H. Peng, H. F. Yang, T. Zhang, B. Zhou, Y. Zhang, Y. F. Guo, M.
Rahn, D. Prabhakaran, Z. Hussain, S.-K. Mo, C. Felser, B. Yan, and Y. L.
Chen, Nat. Phys. **11**, 728 (2015). * [21] Z. K. Liu, L. X. Yang, Y.
Sun, T. Zhang, H. Peng, H. F. Yang, C. Chen, Y. Zhang, Y. F. Guo, D.
Prabhakaran, M. Schmidt, Z. Hussain, S.-K. Mo, C. Felser, B. Yan, and Y.
L. Chen, Nat. Mater. **15**, 27 (2016). * [22] G. R. Stewart, Rev. Mod.
Phys. **83**, 1589 (2011). * [23] X. Zhu, B. Lv, F. Wei, Y. Xue, B.
Lorenz, L. Deng, Y. Sun, and C.-W. Chu, Phys. Rev. B **87**, 024508
(2013). * [24] M. S. Fuhrer, Physics **3**, 106 (2010). * [25] W. L.
McMillan, Phys. Rev. **167**, 331 (1968). * [26] G. Jaignesh, R. D.
Eithiraj, and G. Kalpana, Comput. Mater. Sci. **49**, 112 (2010). * [27]
J. B. Goodenough, _Magnetism and the Chemical Bond_ (Interscience/Wiley,
New York, 1963). * [28] N. Menyuk, J. A. Kafalas, K. Dwight, and J. B.
Goodenough, Phys. Rev. **177**, 942 (1969). * [29] K. Kanaya, S. Abe, H.
Yoshida, K. Kamigaki, and T. Kaneko, J. Alloys. Compd. **383**, 189
(2004). * [30] Q. Niu, W. C. Yu, K. Y. Yip, Z. L. Lim, H. Kotegawa, E.
Matsuoka, H. Sugawara, H. Tou, Y. Yanase, and Swee K. Goh, Nat. Commun.
**8**, 15358 (2017). * [31] T. H. Geballe and J. K. Hulm, _Bernd Theodor
Matthias_ (National Academies Press, Washington, DC, 1996). * [32] T. T.
Zhang, Y. Jiang, Z. D. Song, H. Huang, Y. Q. He, Z. Fang, H. M. Weng,
and C. Fang, Nature (London) **566**, 475 (2019).
