# Doping dependence of the pseudogap in La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄

J. G. Naeini

X. K. Chen

J. C. Irwin

Department of Physics, Simon Fraser University, Burnaby, British
Columbia, Canada V5A 1S6

M. Okuya

M. Kimura

M. Okuya

T. Kimura

K. Kishio

Department of Superconductivity, University of Tokyo, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo
113, Japan

###### Abstract

We report the results of Raman scattering experiments on single crystals
of La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄ that span the range from underdoped (x = 0.10)
to overdoped (x = 0.22). The spectra are consistent with the existence
of a strong anisotropic quasiparticle interaction that results in a
normal state depletion of spectral weight from regions of the Fermi
surface located near the zone axes. The strength of the interaction
decreases rapidly with increasing hole concentration and the spectral
evidence for the pseudogap vanishes when the optimum doping level is
reached. The results suggest that the pseudogap and superconducting gap
arise from different mechanisms. [S0163-1829(99)09913-0]

## I Introduction

It has been recognized for some time [1, 2] that the normal state
electronic properties of the high-temperature superconductors (HTS) are
very different from those of a conventional Fermi liquid. It is also
generally agreed that an understanding of the normal state properties is
important in identifying the physical mechanism responsible for
superconductivity in HTS. As a result, an increasing amount of attention
has been focused on the temperature region T  > T_(c) and recent studies
[3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17] of underdoped
compounds have revealed remarkable deviations from Fermi liquid
behavior. These results [4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16,
17] have been interpreted in terms of the opening of a normal state
pseudogap (PG), a term that is generally used to mean a large
suppression of low-energy spectral weight.

Despite an extensive experimental effort, the physical origin of the PG
remains undetermined. Some of the proposed mechanisms involve precursor
pairing [3, 18, 19] at T  > T_(c). For example, Emery and Kivelson [18]
have suggested that incoherent pairs form above T_(c), with phase
coherence and hence superconductivity occurring at T_(c). Or if one has
separation of charge and spin, [19]d-wave pairing of spinons can take
place at T  > T_(c), with charge condensation at T_(c). On the other
hand, in the nearly antiferromagnetic Fermi liquid (NAFL) model proposed
by Pines and co-workers, [20, 21, 22] the PG and superconducting
mechanisms are competing. In this model the PG or spectral weight
depletion (SWD) is caused by strong anisotropic antiferromagnetic (AFM)
interactions that are peaked near the AFM ordering vector
${\bf Q}\!=\!(\pi,\pi)$.

To obtain additional, complementary information on the nature and extent
of the PG regime, we have carried out electronic Raman scattering
experiments on La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄[La214(x)]. This compound is an
excellent material for these studies for several reasons. It has a
relatively simple structure with a single CuO₂ plane in the primitive
cell. Also, the results are not influenced by structural complications
such as those introduced by the chains in YBa₂Cu₃O_(y) (Y123) or the
structural modulations in Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O_(z) (Bi2212). Finally the hole
concentration is determined simply by the Sr concentration if oxygen
stoichiometry is maintained. As a result, one can obtain [23] high
quality and well characterized single crystals of La214 that enable one
to study the systematic evolution of the electronic properties
throughout the complete doping range. We have measured the relative
strengths and frequency distributions of the B_(1g) and B_(2g) Raman
continua as a function of temperature and doping. The results of these
experiments are consistent with a PG mechanism that is intrinsic to a
single CuO₂ layer and is present only in the underdoped regime of La214.
Our results also imply that the energy scale E_(g) associated with the
PG is quite different from the superconducting gap energy Δ.

## II Experiment

The samples studied in this work were grown by a traveling floating-zone
method. [23] The crystals used here were cut from larger single crystals
and typically had dimensions of about 2 × 2 × 0.5 mm³. Characterization
of the samples included susceptibility and transport measurements of
their critical temperatures. [23] The sample surfaces were prepared for
light scattering experiments by polishing with diamond paste and etching
[24] with a bromine-ethanol solution. Finally the samples were oriented
in the basal plane using Laue x-ray-diffraction patterns. The physical
parameters characterizing the La214 samples are summarized in Table 1.

The Raman spectra were obtained in a quasibackscatter

  ---------------------- ------------------------ -----------
  La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄    Nominal Sr content (x)   T_(c) (K)
  Underdoped                       0.10               27
  Underdoped                       0.13               35
  Optimally doped                  0.17               37
  Overdoped                        0.19               32
  Overdoped                        0.22               30
  ---------------------- ------------------------ -----------

Table 1: The physical parameters characterizing the samples studied in
this paper. T_(c) was determined magnetically and x is the nominal hole
concentration (Ref. [23]).

ing geometry using the 488.0 or 514.5 nm lines of an Ar⁺ laser. In most
cases the light was focused onto the sample using a cylindrical lens,
but on occasion a combination of a spherical and cylindrical lenses was
used to reduce the dimensions of the laser beam at the sample. In all
cases the incident power level was controlled to be less than 10 W/cm².
With these power levels an estimate of about 11 K has been obtained for
the amount of local heating by the laser. This estimation was obtained
from measurements of the power dependence of the spectra at temperatures
near T_(c) , and the Stokes/anti-Stokes ratio at somewhat higher
temperatures. The temperatures reported in this paper are the ambient
values plus 11 K, or the estimated temperatures in the excited region of
the sample.

In a Raman spectrum the intensity of the scattered light is proportional
to the square of the Raman tensor γ, whose components can be selected by
appropriate choices of the incident and scattered polarizations.[25] In
this paper spectra were obtained in the $z(xy)\overline{z}$ and
$z(x^{\prime}y^{\prime})\overline{z}$ scattering geometries, where the
letters inside the parentheses denote the polarizations of the incident
and scattered light. Here the x and y axes are parallel to the Cu-O
bonds and x^(′) and y^(′) axes are rotated by 45^(∘) with respect to
(x, y). The xy component of the Raman tensor γ_(xy) transforms as
k_(x)k_(y) or the B_(2g) irreducible representation of the D_(4h) point
group, and γ_(x^(′)y^(′)) as (k_(x)² − k_(y)²) or B_(1g) . Thus
γ(B_(1g)) must vanish along the diagonal directions (±1, ±1) in k space
and γ(B_(2g)) must vanish along the k_(x) and k_(y) axes. These two
scattering geometries allow us to probe[25] complementary regions of the
Fermi surface (FS) since the B_(1g) channel will sample regions of the
FS located near the k_(x) and k_(y) axes while the B_(2g) channel will
probe regions located near the diagonal directions.

Throughout this paper we deal with the frequency distribution of the
Raman response function χ^(′′)(ω, T) which is obtained by dividing the
measured intensity by the thermal factor [ 1 − exp (−h ωk_(B)T)]⁻¹.

## III Results

A detailed description of the Raman spectra of the La214(0.17) sample,
which we will consider to be representative of the optimally doped
state, has been published recently.[25] In this paper we will focus on
the changes that occur in the spectra of the underdoped and overdoped
compounds. We will first discuss spectra obtained from the underdoped
samples (x = 0.10 and 0.13). The normal state response functions are
shown in Fig. 1 for the 0.13 sample and the low-temperature response
functions for both samples are presented in Fig. 2. As is shown in Fig.
1(a), the magnitude of χ^(′′)(B_(1g)) is independent of temperature, to
within the accuracy of our measurements (15

We have also obtained spectra from two overdoped crystals (x = 0.19 and
0.22) and we have found that the magnitude of the response functions
χ^(′′)(B_(1g)) in both samples (for ω ≥ 300 cm⁻¹) is again approximately
independent[26, 27] of temperature. In contrast to the situation in the
underdoped samples, there is a pronounced SCIR that occurs at T_(c) in

Figure 1: The B_(1g) (a) and B_(2g) (b) response functions of the
underdoped La214(0.13) crystal for temperatures between 50 K and 300 K.
The spectra are offset vertically for clarity.

Figure 2: The B_(1g) response above and below T_(c) for the La214(0.13)
crystal (a) and the La214(0.10) crystal (b). The B_(2g) response for the
same crystals is shown in (c) and (d).

both_ the B1_g_ and B2_g_ channels for both the optimally doped [25] and
the overdoped samples. [26, 27] Finally the low-temperature spectra of
the overdoped crystals, in both B1_g_ and B2_g_ channels, are compared
to the underdoped and optimally doped spectra in Fig. 3.

As a measure of the strength of the response functions we will use the
integral of χ^(′′)(ω) over the low-frequency spectral region. In this
context the strength of χ^(′′)(B_(2g)) is approximately the same (Fig.
3) for all the crystals studied here, while the strength of
χ^(′′)(B_(1g)) changes dramatically as we proceed from the underdoped to
the overdoped samples. The ratio
R = ∫dω χ^(′′)(B_(1g))/∫dω χ^(′′)(B_(2g)), and therefore the strength of
the B1_g_ Raman response, increases by a factor of about 16 as we go
from the underdoped x = 0.10 sample to the optimally doped sample with x
= 0.17. The ratio R continues to increase, but at a slower rate as one
proceeds into the overdoped regime. This result is summarized
quantitatively in Fig. 4, where we have plotted the ratio R as a
function of hole concentration. For comparison purposes, data obtained
previously [13] on Y123 are also included [28] in Fig. 4. It is evident
that the ratio R for the two compounds exhibits a similar trend with
doping.

## IV Discussion

### Spectral weight depletion

Relatively few Raman experiments have been carried out to investigate
the nature of the PG. Nemetschek _et al._[14] have attributed a small
loss of spectral weight in the region $\omega \leq 700\,{\rm cm}^{-1}$
in the B2_g_ channel to the presence of a PG. Blumberg _et al._, [15] in
spectra obtained from underdoped Bi2212, have observed a sharp feature
at about 600 $\,{\rm cm}^{-1}$ which they have attributed to a bound
state associated with precursor pair formation above _T_c. In our
studies of underdoped Y123 and La214 we have focused on the striking
loss of spectral weight in the B1_g_ channel, and the contrasting
constancy of the B2_g_ spectra, features which appear to be common [13,
29, 30] to the hole-doped cuprates.

To speculate on the cause of the dramatic change in the intensity in the
B1_g_ channel and the relative constancy of the B2_g_ channel, we can
calculate the unscreened Raman response functions in the superconducting
state using the conventional model of light scattering [31]

$$\chi^{\prime\prime}_{\gamma}(\omega) \propto \left\langle \frac{\gamma^{2}({\bf k})\Delta^{2}({\bf k})}{\omega\sqrt{\omega^{2}-4\Delta^{ 2}({\bf k})}} \right\rangle,$$
(1)

where ⟨ ⟩ imply an average over the FS for k vectors such that
$\omega > 2\left|\Delta({\bf k})\right|$. The results shown in Fig. 5
were obtained with $\gamma({\bf k})$ calculated using a second-neighbor
tight-binding model with the parameters described previously [25] and
$\Delta({\bf k})$

Figure 4: The ratio R of the integrated Raman response functions plotted
as a function of hole concentration for La214 (•) and Y123 (○). The
ratio was determined for 0 $\leq\omega \leq 600\,{\rm cm}^{-1}$ in all
cases. The dashed line represents the calculated R using Eq. (1) for
different values of _ph_ (Fig. 5) superimposed using the top scale. The
dotted line serves only as a guide to the eye.

Figure 5: Calculated B1_g_ (thin lines) and B2_g_ (thick lines) Raman
response functions in La214 (a) by integrating over the full Fermi
surface (dashed lines in the inset) and (b)–(d) by integrating only over
regions lying between _ph_ and 90^(∘)– _ph_ in each quadrant. The inset
shows polar plots of the angular dependence of the B1_g_ (thin lines)
and B2_g_ (thick lines) components of the Raman tensor
$\gamma({\bf k})$.

 = Δ₀[cos (k_(s)α) − cos (k_(s)α)]. The response functions obtained by
integrating Eq. (1) over the full FS (dashed lines in the inset of Fig.
5) are shown in Fig. 5(a). To obtain a representation of the Raman
response in the underdoped case, we integrate Eq. (1) over portions of
the FS lying between ϕ and 90^(∘) − ϕ in each quadrant. That is, regions
of the FS near the axis (defined by angle ϕ) were excluded from the
integration, and the resulting response functions are shown in Figs.
5(b)-5(d) for ϕ = 10^(∘), 20^(∘), and 30^(∘). As is evident, an
increasing truncation of the FS leads to a rapid depletion of the B_(1g)
spectrum, but has much smaller effect on the B_(2g) spectrum.

We have also calculated the ratio R of the integrated response functions
as a function of ϕ and the results are superimposed (dashed line) on the
data points in Fig. 4. For the purpose of this comparison both the
measured and calculated response functions were integrated from ω = 0 to
600 cm⁻¹. It should be noted that the apparent agreement between
calculation and experiment is quite fortuitous given the simplistic
nature of the model. The results do, however, provide plausibility for
the existence of a localized depletion of spectral weight from regions
of the FS located near (π,0). Finally we should note that the effective
gapping of quasiparticles (QP) from these same regions, at T>T_(c) , is
consistent with the absence of a superconductivity induced
renormalization in the B_(1g) spectra of the underdoped compounds [Figs.
2(a) and 2(b)].

The observed dependence on scattering geometry thus implies that the
spectral weight loss is confined to regions of the FS located near (±
π,0) and (0,± π) and that QP located near the diagonals are essentially
unaffected by a reduction in doping level. Given that ARPES experiments
[8, 9, 10] also find a SWD that reaches a maximum in regions near (π,0),
we will assume that this feature is characteristic of the PG, and that
the PG thus manifests itself in the Raman spectra _primarily_ as a SWD
in the B_(1g) channel. We should note, however, that the B_(2g) spectra
are also approximately independent of temperature (for T>T_(c)), which
is difficult to reconcile with the FS contraction envisaged by Norman
_et al._[11]

According to Fig. 4 the SWD or pseudogap has approximately the same
strength in La214 and Y123. This is not consistent with the suggestion
[32] that the PG arises from strong AFM interactions between the closely
spaced CuO₂ layers of bilayer compounds such as Y123. The present
results thus suggest that the PG arises from intralayer interactions and
in this regard are in agreement with IR [4, 5], ARPES [7], specific heat
[33], and NMR (Ref. [34]) measurements.

### Magnitude (E_(g)) of the pseudogap

In the spectra we have obtained from La214 there is no clear indication
of an onset temperature T* for the PG. Estimates [21, 34] of T* ≈ 200 K
have been obtained from the analysis of NMR experiments carried out on
slightly underdoped La214 samples (x = 0.14 and 0.15). On the other
hand, transport [35], IR reflectivity [5], and specific-heat [33]
measurements on underdoped La214 have all found T* > 300 K. Our spectra
(Fig. 1) indicate some minor changes at about 200 K, which include the
appearance of a broad and weak feature at about 600 cm⁻¹ in both
channels. In fact, the variations that occur in the B_(2g) spectra below
about 200 K reflect a decrease in intensity at low energies similar to
that observed by Nemetschek _et al._[14] in Bi2212. However, no
significant changes in spectral weight, which one might expect to mark
the onset of the PG, occur at any temperature below 300 K.

The lack of an experimental consensus for T* in La214 is perhaps
supportive of the suggestion [36] that one cannot associate a well
defined T* with the PG, but only an energy scale E_(g) . In this regard,
however, there is also no clear evidence of a gap edge in the B_(1g)
spectra we have obtained (Fig. 1) from underdoped La214. This is perhaps
not surprising if E_(g) is of order of J in underdoped samples and
decreases with increasing hole concentration as has been suggested by
photoemission [7] and specific-heat [33] measurements. This magnitude
for the PG might be expected if short-range AFM correlation were
responsible for the spectral weight depletion [20]. One possible
scenario involves the existence of AFM ordered regions and separate hole
rich regions in the underdoped samples. Evidence for this type of phase
separation was obtained recently in muon spin resonance experiments on
underdoped La214 and Ca doped Y123 [37].

One-magnon excitations are not observed in Raman spectra of the cuprates
and hence the PG energy would be reflected in the two-magnon peak that
occurs at about 3J≈ 3000 cm⁻¹ in undoped La214 (Refs. [38, 39] and
insulating Y123 [38, 40, 41]. The amplitude and energy of the two-magnon
peak decreases [39, 42] are the compounds are doped and such peaks have
not been observed for doping levels greater than or equal to optimum.
Although our spectrometer range is limited, we have carried out
preliminary measurements of the high-energy B_(1g) spectra for three
samples (x = 0.10, 0.13, and 0.22). The high-energy (ω< 3000 cm⁻¹)
response functions measured at 50 K and 100 K for the three samples are
shown in Fig. 6. From the figure one can see a broad, weak peak at about
2000 cm⁻¹ (J∼ 700 cm⁻¹) in the x = 0.10 spectrum. This peak essentially
vanishes as we proceed to higher doping levels [Figs. 6(a) and 6(b)]. We
must emphasize that these spectra have not been corrected for variations
in the optical constants or for spectrometer response and are shown only
to illustrate the effect of doping.

Figure 6: The high-energy B_(1g) Raman response functions measured at 50
K and 100 K in La214(x) for (a) x = 0.22, (b) x = 0.13, and (c) x =
0.10.

Our spectrometer response decreases in the red and correction might push
the peak in Fig. 6(c) to higher energies and also decrease its relative
amplitude. Such corrections would not, however, alter the observed trend
that is induced by changes in doping.

It appears plausible that the pseudogap or SWD in the B1g channel is due
to short-range AFM correlations and the formation of "hot spots"[20] on
regions of the FS located near (+- p,0) and (0,+- _p_). As the doping
level is increased, the AFM interactions become weaker, as is evidenced
by a weakening (Fig. 6) and shift of the two-magnon peak to lower
energies.[39, 42] Thus as the doping level is increased, _E_g decreases
and some spectral weight is shifted from higher to lower energies. At
optimum doping, where a SCIR is observed in the B1g channel [Fig. 3(c)],
the PG is assumed to be filled. Furthermore, on the basis of their
specific-heat measurements in several cuprates, Loram _et al.[33]_ have
proposed that _E_g _ _J_(1 - _p_/_p_,_) where p is the hole
concentration and p _cr_ is the value at which _E_g "closes." Given that
_J_ 1000 cm-1 in La2CuO4 (_p_=0) and _E_g  _700 cm-1 for p  _x_ = 0.10
would suggest that _p_cr > _p_ott. We would thus conclude that the
pseudogap "fills" before it "closes."

It is interesting to compare the PG energy scale _Eg_ to that of the
superconducting gap D. In Raman spectra the energy of the pair-breaking
peak in the B1g channel can be used[43] as a measure of D. In optimally
doped La214 the maximum value of the superconducting gap[25] is given by
_o_(_B_1g)  2 D_max  200 cm-1, as is also evident from Fig. 3. In the
overdoped region D_max decreases (Fig. 3), consistent with the behavior
in other cuprates.[44, 45, 46] In the underdoped regime the absence of a
SCIR in the B1g channel means that we do not have any direct measure of
the gap maxima. We can note, however, that the frequency of the
pair-breaking peak in the B2g channel remains approximately constant
[_o_(_B_2g)  130 +- 20 cm-1] as the doping level is decreased from
optimum. We thus infer that D remains approximately constant throughout
the doping range 0.10 <= x <= 0.17. This behavior is also consistent
with that found in ARPES and tunneling measurements[9, 47] on Bi2212.
Therefore, we have an amplitude D_max  100 cm-1 for the SC gap and
_Eg_ _J_ 700 cm-1 for the PG. These very different energy scales suggest
that different physical mechanisms are involved.

### Summary

The most noticeable aspect of the spectra shown in Fig. 3 is the SWD
that occurs in the B1g channel when the doping level is reduced below
optimum, while the strength of the B2g spectrum is essentially
unaffected by changes in doping. These results suggest that the QP
scattering rate is highly anisotropic[48] and leads to the existence of
"hot spots" on regions of the FS located near (+- p,0) and (0,+- _p_).
This observation is consistent with the predictions of Pines and
co-workers,[20] who have pointed out that QP located near these regions
can be coupled by the AFM ordering vector **Q** = (_p_, _p_) and hence
interact strongly in underdoped compounds. Conversely, the QP on regions
of the FS located near [|k_i | = |k_j | are weakly coupled,[20] and have
been designated as "cold."[20, 49] As the doping level is increased
toward optimum, the SWD decreases rapidly, consistent with a weakening
of the AFM interactions between QP.[20] In this language our results
then suggest that the hot QP are gapped above _T_c and hence are not
affected by the SC transition. Only the cold QP, as evidenced by the
SCIR in the B2g channel at _T_c , participate in the transition to the
SC state.

Thus far our attention has been focused on the most dominant feature of
the spectra obtained from underdoped compounds, namely the SWD that is
confined to the B1g channel. As mentioned previously, Nemetschek _et
al.[14]_ found that a relatively small depletion of spectral weight also
occurs in the B2g channel of Y123 and Bi2212 below o  700 cm-1 and
_T_ 250 K. This energy and onset temperature are in good agreement with
IR measurements on the same compounds.[4] This appears reasonable since,
given the SWD in the B1g channel, one would expect the results of IR and
transport measurements, for example, to be determined mainly by the
properties of the cold QP,[14, 20, 49] or those on regions of the FS
located near the diagonal directions. Furthermore, one can see that a
similar small depression of spectral weight appears below 700 cm-1 and
200 K in the B2g spectra of the x = 0.13 crystal [Fig. 1(b)], in
agreement with IR measurements carried out[5] on underdoped La214. Thus
the loss of spectral weight in the B2g channel,[14] the depression of
the scattering rate observed in IR experiments, and the spectral weight
depletion observed in the B1g channel (Figs. 3 and 4) are all
characterized by the same energy scale. This suggests that there is a
common physical mechanism underlying the apparently different phenomena
that are observed in the two channels. However, the identification of a
possible interrelation between the two channels will require a very
careful analysis of the temperature dependence of the spectra for 50 K
<= T  300 K. Such an analysis should also provide important information
about the existence and magnitude of crossover temperatures _T_* that
have been observed in other experiments[5, 21, 34, 35] and are important
features of some models.[18, 20] It is also possible that the SWD in the
two channels arises from different mechanisms and that there are
different pseudogaps as have been suggested[7] by Ino _et al._

## V Conclusions

In the Raman spectra obtained from La214 there is a loss of low-energy
spectral weight in the B1g channel as the doping level is decreased
below optimum, while the intensity in the B2g channel remains unchanged.
These results imply the existence of a strong anisotropic scattering
mechanism and the formation of hot spots[20] on regions of the Fermi
surface located near _k_x and k_(y) axes. Furthermore, in underdoped
compounds the B1g channel is unaffected by the superconducting
transition. The pseudogap is thus manifested in Raman spectra both by a
depletion of low-energy spectral weight or reduced intensity and by the
absence of a superconductivity induced renormalization in the B1g
channel. In this context the pseudogap in La214 and Y123 (Ref. [13]) is
present only in the underdoped regime. Since the spectral weight
depletion is similar in the two compounds, we conclude that the
pseudogap is intrinsic to a single CuO2 plane and does not arise from
interlayer interactions. Furthermore, the results suggest that the loss
of low-energy intensity in the B1g channel is due to strong
antiferromagnetic interactions, which in turn implies
$E_{g}{}^{\infty}J{}^{\infty}700\,{\rm cm}^{-1}$ for the pseudogap, an
energy scale that is much larger than the energy of the superconducting
gap ($\Delta_{\rm max}{}^{\infty}100\,{\rm cm}^{-1}$). These energy
scales imply that the pseudogap and superconducting gap arise from
different physical mechanisms. Since superconductivity grows while the
spectral weight loss or pseudogap diminishes, it appears that the two
mechanisms compete with each other for the available quasiparticles.

_Note added in proof._ We have recently learned of a paper [50] in which
the authors demonstrate that an appropriate form of FS nesting can lead
to a FS that consists of arcs in planes perpendicular to k_(z). The arcs
are centered near (π/2, π/2) and decrease in length as the doping level
is decreased, consistent with the behavior shown in Figs. 4 and 5.

###### Acknowledgements.

The authors gratefully acknowledge useful conversations with T. P.
Devereaux, T. Startseva, T. Timusk, and J. Schmalian. One of us (J.C.I.)
has also benefited greatly from discussions with R. G. Buckley, J. L.
Tallon, A. J. Trodhal, and G. V. M. Williams during a visit to the
Industrial Research Laboratory in Lower Hutt, New Zealand. The financial
support of the Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council of
Canada is gratefully acknowledged.

## References

* [1] P. B. Allen, Z. Fisk, and A. Miglieri, in _Physical Properties of
HTS, V. I_, edited by D. M. Ginsberg (World Scientific, Singapore,
1989). * [2] I. Bozovic, D. Kirillov, A. Kapitulnik, K. Char, M. R.
Hahan, M. R. Beasley, T. H. Geballe, Y. H. Kim, A. J. Heeger, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **59**, 2219 (1987). * [3] M. Randeria, in _Proceedings of the
International School of Physics, Veremna, 1997_, edited by G. Iadonisi,
J. R. Schrieffer, and M. L. Chiofalo (IOS Press, Amsterdam, 1998). * [4]
A. V. Puchkov, D. N. Basov, and T. Timusk, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter
**8**, 10 049 (1996); A. V. Puchkov, P. Fournier, T. Timusk, and N. N.
Kolesnikov, Phys. Rev. Lett. **77**, 1853 (1996). * [5] T. Startseva, T.
Timusk, A. V. Puchkov, D. N. Basov, H. A. Mook, T. Kimura, and K.
Kishio, Phys. Rev. B **59**, 7184 (1999); T. Timusk and B. Statt, Rep.
Prog. Phys. (to be published). * [6] C. P. Slichter, R. L. Corey, N. J.
Curro, S. M. DeSoto, K. O’Hara, T. Imai, A. M. Kini, H. H. Wang, U.
Geiser, J. M. Williams, K. Yoshimura, M. Katoh, and K. Kosuge, Philos.
Mag. B **74**, 545 (1996). * [7] A. Fujimori, A. Ino, T. Mizokawa, C.
Kim, Z.-X. Shen, T. Sasagawa, T. Kimura, K. Kishio, M. Takaba, K.
Tamasaku, H. Eisaki, and S. Uchida, J. Phys. Chem. Solids **59**, 1892
(1998); A. Ino, T. Mizokawa, K. Kobayashi, A. Fujimori, T. Sasagawa, T.
Kimura, K. Kishio, K. Tamasaku, H. Eisaki, and S. Uchida, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **79**, 2101 (1997); **81**, 2124 (1998). * [8] D. S. Marshall _et
al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **76**, 4841 (1996); A. G. Loeser, Z.-X. Shen,
and D. S. Dessau, Science **273**, 325 (1996). * [9] J. M. Harris, Z.-X.
Shen, P. J. White, D. S. Marshall, M. C. Schabel, J. N. Eckstein, and I.
Bozovic, Phys. Rev. B **54**, R15 665 (1996). * [10] H. Ding, T. Yokoya,
J. C. Campuzano, T. Takahashi, M. Randeria, M. R. Norman, T. Mochiku, K.
Kadowaki, and J. Giapintzakis, Nature (London) **382**, 51 (1996); H.
Ding, M. R. Norman, T. Yokoya, T. Takeuchi, M. Randeria, J. C.
Campuzano, T. Takahashi, T. Mochiku, and K. Kadowaki, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**78**, 2628 (1997). * [11] M. R. Norman, H. Ding, M. Randeria, J. C.
Campuzano, T. Yokoya, T. Takeuchi, T. Takahashi, T. Mochiku, and K.
Kadowaki, P. Guptasarma, and D. G. Hinks, Nature (London) **392**, 157
(1998). * [12] J. W. Loram, K. A. Mirza, J. R. Cooper, N.
Athanassopoulou, and W. Y. Liang, in _Proceedings of the 10th
Anniversary HTS Workshop_ (World Scientific, Singapore, 1996). * [13] X.
K. Chen, J. G. Naeini, K. C. Hewitt, J. C. Irwin, R. Liang, and W. N.
Hardy, Phys. Rev. B **56**, R513 (1997). * [14] R. Nemetschek, M. Opel,
C. Hoffmann, P. F. Muller, R. Hackl, H. Berger, L. Forro, A. Erb, and E.
Walker, Phys. Rev. Lett. **78**, 4837 (1997). * [15] G. Blumberg, M.
Kang, M. V. Klein, K. Kadowaki, and C. Kendziora, Science **278**, 1427
(1997). * [16] J. W. Quilty, H. J. Trodahl, and D. M. Pooke, Phys. Rev.
B **57**, R11 097 (1998). * [17] J. L. Tallon, G. V. M. Williams, N. E.
Flower, and C. Bernard, Physica C **282**-**287**, 236 (1997). * [18] V.
J. Emery and S. A. Kivelson, Nature (London) **374**, 434 (1995); V. J.
Emery and S. A. Kivelson, and O. Zachar, Phys. Rev. B **56**, 6120
(1997). * [19] P. W. Anderson, Science **235**, 1196 (1987); X. G. Wen
and P. A. Lee, Phys. Rev. Lett. **76**, 503 (1996). * [20] D. Pines, Z.
Phys. B **103**, 129 (1997); Physica C **282**-**287**, 273 (1997). *
[21] V. Barzykin and D. Pines, Phys. Rev. B **52**, 13 585 (1995); Y.
Zha, V. Barzykin, and D. Pines, _ibid._**54**, 7561 (1996). * [22] A. V.
Chubukov, D. Pines, and B. Stojkovic, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter **8**,
10 017 (1996); J. Schmalian, D. Pines, and B. Stojkovic, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **80**, 3839 (1998). * [23] T. Kimura, K. Kishio, T. Kobayashi, Y.
Nakayama, M. Motohira, K. Kitazawa, and K. Yamafuji, Physica C **192**,
247 (1992). * [24] D. J. Werder, C. H. Chen, M. Gurvitch, B. Miller, L.
F. Schneemeyer, and J. V. Waszczak, Physica C **160**, 411 (1989). *
[25] X. K. Chen, J. C. Irwin, H. J. Trodahl, T. Kimura, and K. Kishio,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **73**, 3290 (1994); Physica C **295**, 80 (1998). *
[26] J. G. Naeini, X. K. Chen, K. C. Hewitt, J. C. Irwin, T. P.
Devereaux, M. Okuya, T. Kimura, and K. Kishio, Phys. Rev. B **57**, R11
077 (1998). * [27] J. G. Naeini, X. K. Chen, J. C. Irwin, M. Okuya, T.
Kimura, T. Sasagawa, Y. Togawa, and K. Kishio (unpublished). * [28] See
J. L. Tallon, C. Bernhard, H. Shaked, R. L. Hitterman, and J. D.
Jorgensen, Phys. Rev. B **51**, 12 911 (1995), for an estimation of the
hole concentration in Y123. * [29] T. Katsufuji, Y. Tokura, T. Ido, and
S. Uchida, Phys. Rev. B **48**, 16 131 (1993). * [30] M. Opel, R.
Nemetschek, C. Hoffmann, P. F. Muller, R. Philipp, R. Hackl, H. Berger,
L. Forro, A. Erb, and E. Walker, J. Phys. Chem. Solids **59**, 1942
(1998). * [31] M. V. Klein and S. B. Dierker, Phys. Rev. B **29**, 4976
(1984). * [32] A. J. Millis and H. Monien, Phys. Rev. Lett. **70**, 2810
(1993).

* [33] J. W. Loram, K. A. Mirza, J. R. Cooper, and J. L. Tallon, J.
Phys. Chem. Solids **59**, 2091 (1998). * [34] H. Yasuoka, Physica C
**282-287**, 119 (1997). * [35] B. Batlogg, H. Y. Hwang, H. Takagi, R.
J. Cava, H. L. Kao, and J. Kwo, Physica C **235-240**, 130 (1994). *
[36] G. V. M. Williams, J. L. Tallon, E. M. Haines, R. Michalak, and R.
Dupree, Phys. Rev. Lett. **78**, 721 (1997). * [37] Ch. Niedermayer, C.
Bernhard, T. Blasius, A. Golnik, A. Moodenbaugh, and J. I. Budnick,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **80**, 3843 (1998). * [38] K. B. Lyons, P. A. Fleury,
L. F. Schneemeyer, and J. V. Waszczak, Phys. Rev. Lett. **60**, 732
(1988); K. B. Lyons, P. A Fleury, A. S. Cooper, and T. J. Negran, Phys.
Rev. B **37**, 2353 (1988). * [39] S. Sugai, S. I. Shamoto, and M. Sato,
Phys. Rev. B **38**, 6436 (1988). * [40] D. Reznik, S. L. Cooper, M. V.
Klein, W. C. Lee, D. M. Ginsberg, A. A. Maksimov, A. V. Puchkov, I. I.
Tartakovskii, S. Cheong, Phys. Rev. B **48**, 7624 (1993). * [41] G.
Blumberg, P. Abbamonte, M. V. Klein, W. C. Lee, D. M. Ginsberg, L. L.
Miller, A. Zibold, Phys. Rev. B **53**, R11 930 (1996). * [42] M.
Rubhausen, C. T. Rieck, N. Dieckmann, K. O. Subke, A. Bock, and U.
Merkt, Phys. Rev. B **56**, 14 797 (1997). * [43] T. P. Devereaux, D.
Einzel, B. Stadlober, R. Hackl, D. H. Leach, and J. J. Neumeier, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **72**, 396 (1994). * [44] X. K. Chen, E. Altendorf, J. C.
Irwin, R. Liang, and W. N. Hardy, Phys. Rev. B **48**, 10 530 (1993); X.
K. Chen, J. C. Irwin, R. Liang, and W. N. Hardy, J. Supercond. **7**,
435 (1994); Physica C **227**, 113 (1994). * [45] P. J. White, Z.-X.
Shen, C. Kim, J. M. Harris, A. G. Loeser, P. Fournier, A. Kapitulnik,
Phys. Rev. B **54**, R15 669 (1996). * [46] C. Kendziora, R. J. Kelley,
and M. Onellion, Phys. Rev. Lett. **77**, 727 (1996). * [47] Ch. Renner,
B. Revaz, J.-Y. Genoud, K. Kadowaki, and O. Fischer, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**80**, 149 (1998). * [48] T. P. Devereaux and A. Kampf, Phys. Rev. B
**59**, 6411 (1999); J. Phys. Chem. Solids **59**, 1972 (1998). * [49]
L. B. Ioffe and A. J. Millis, Phys. Rev. B **58**, 11 631 (1998). * [50]
N. Furukawa, T. M. Rice, and M. Salmhofer, Phys. Rev. Lett. **81**, 3195
(1998).
