Anisotropy of electrical transport and superconductivity in metal chains
of Nb₂Se₃

Rongwei Hu,^(1, 2) K. Lauritch-Kullas,³ J. O’Brian,³ V. F. Mitrovic,²
and C. Petrovic¹

¹Condensed Matter Physics, Brookhaven National Laboratory, Upton, New
York 11973-5000, USA

²Physics Department, Brown University, Providence, Rhode Island 02912,
USA

³Quantum Design, 6235 Lusk Boulevard, San Diego, California 92121, USA

###### Abstract

In this work we have shown bulk superconductivity and studied the
anisotropy in both the normal and superconducting states in the
quasi-one-dimensional conductor Nb₂Se₃. Electron-electron Umklapp
scattering dominates electronic transport along the direction of Nb
metal chains as well as perpendicular to it. The superconducting state
is rather anisotropic with possible multiband features.

pacs: DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.75.064517 + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL
REVIEW B **75**, 064517 (2007)

## I Introduction

Recently, there has been continuing interest in the search, discovery,
and characterization of materials that exhibit exotic collective
electronic phenomena in different bonding and structure types. High
T_(C) cuprates, Sr₂RuO₄, some organic and heavy fermion metals are
examples of materials which exhibit low dimensional superconductivity
gaps or anisotropic Fermi surfaces. [1, 2, 3, 4] The true character of
anisotropy is one of the most important questions to be addressed, and
in that context quasi-one-dimensional (1D) materials are the extreme
examples in nature. [5, 6, 7, 8] Transition metal chalcogenides often
host quasi-1D conducting electrons due to the existence of metal chains
in their crystal structure, where band dispersion along the chain is an
order of magnitude larger than dispersion in the direction perpendicular
to chains. Intermetallic phases on the selenium-rich side of the Nb-Se
phase diagram, such as NbSe₂ and NbSe₃, are fruitful model materials for
the study of low dimensional superconductivity and charge density waves
(CDW). [9, 10] On the other hand, the niobium-rich side of the Nb-Se
phase diagram has been far less explored, with the exception of Nb₃Se₄
which is a superconductor with T_(C)=2.31 K. [11] In this work we show
bulk superconductivity and examine the character of anisotropy in the
normal and superconducting states of Nb₂Se₃, [12] a quasi-1D conductor
whose normal state electronic transport is dominated by
electron-electron Umklapp scattering. [13]

## II Crystal structure

Nb₂Se₃ crystallizes in the monoclinic P_(21m) crystal structure where Nb
atoms form two types of infinite metal-metal chains running in the
b-axis direction: Nb(1) and Nb(2). Interatomic distances in the Nb(1)
chain are comparable to those in pure metal (2.97 A), whereas metal
distances in the Nb(2) chain are somewhat longer (3.13 A). [14] The
origin of metal clustering in this crystal structure is due to its main
building block, M₂X₆ chains (Fig. 1) which are present in many M₂X₃
metal-clustering transition metal chalcogenides (M = Mo, Se,Ta; X = S,
Se). [15]M₂X₆ chains are formed by double edge sharing of MX₄ chains
which are in turn formed by edge sharing of ideal MX₆ octahedra.
Metal-metal bond formation across the shared octahedral edge in MX₄-type
chains causes formation of Nb(2) chains and distortion from ideal
octahedral building blocks in Nb₂Se₆ clusters. Electrical transport
properties and potential structural instabilities in these systems are
governed by the bands formed from the set of unfilled t_(2g) orbitals.

Due to metal clustering in the basic Nb₂Se₆ building blocks, band
structure is comprised of flat bands originating from Nb(2)-Nb(2)
bonding across the shared edge of the NbSe₄ chains and rather dispersive
bands formed from x²-y² orbitals along the Nb(1) chain. Nb₂Se₃ is
isostructural with Mo₂S₃ where metal-metal distances in both Mo(1) and
Mo(2) chains are comparable to those in pure Mo metal. Peierls
distortion associated with half-filled t_(2g) block bands due to the
oxidation state of Mo atoms [M𝜍^(3ξ)(d³)] double the unit cell so Mo₂S₃
exhibits CDW transition. On the other hand, there is no CDW formation in
Nb₂Se₃ since the oxidation state of Nb atoms is Nb³⁺ (d²). Consequently,
Nb₂Se₃ is a good model material for the study of low dimensional
electronic transport along metallic chains down to the lowest
temperatures without partial destruction of the Fermi surface due to CDW
formation, as is the case in many transition metal oxides and
chalcogenides.

Figure 1: (Color online) Crystal structure of Nb₂Se₃ (3×3 unit cells
shown) and projection onto the ab plane showing two types of Nb chains,
open and solid bonds. Nb (blue symbol), Sb (red symbol).

## III Experiment

Powder x-ray patterns were taken at room temperature using a Rigaku
Miniflex with CuK_(n) radiation. The data were collected using 2 θ scan
in the 10^(∘)-90^(∘) range. Several different single crystals were
oriented by a Laue camera. Electrical contacts were made with Epotek
H20E silver epoxy for current along the b-axis of the crystal as well as
perpendicular to the b axis in the a-c plane (parallel and perpendicular
to Nb-Nb chains). The electrical resistivity was measured in a Quantum
Design PPMS-9 in the temperature range from 0.4−300 K and up to 90 kOe.
The heat capacity was measured using a relaxation technique in the same
instrument. The magnetic susceptibility was measured in a Quantum Design
MPMS XL-5. The dimensions of the samples were measured by a high
precision optical microscope, the Nikon SMZ-800 with 10 μm resolution,
and average values are presented. Electrical resistivity, magnetic
susceptibility, and heat capacity were reproduced on several
independently grown samples from different batches in order to exclude
sample dependence.

## IV Results

The synthesis of large single crystals allowed us to study the
anisotropy in the normal and superconducting state of Nb₂Se₃. Single
crystals of Nb₂Se₃ were grown using a molten metallic flux technique,
thus avoiding possible contamination and intercalation of transport
agent atoms. [16, 17, 18] Crystals grew as thin platelike rods with the
long rod axis being the b axis of the crystal structure along the Nb-Nb
metal chains. Crystal structure parameters of flux grown Nb₂Se₃ crystals
are in good agreement with previously published: a=5.5051(2) A,
b=3.4349(2) A, c=9.2369(4) A, and monoclinic angle β=130.16(1)^(∘). The
anisotropy in electrical transport for current applied both along and
perpendicular to the chain direction at high temperatures is shown in
Fig. 2(a). The resistivity of our flux grown samples for current I↑↑b
axis (p_(P)) is in good agreement with the data from crystals obtained
using a vapor transport technique. [13] Electrical transport for the
current perpendicular to the chains, I⊥b axis (p_(N)), is up to an order
of magnitude larger, implying less band structure anisotropy than in
other linear chain inorganic materials and probably less difference in
the band dispersion energy parallel to chains (b axis) and perpendicular
to it. [19, 20] The resistivity decreases with decrease in temperature
approaching residual resistivity values below 4 K, p_(P)=26 μΩ cm and
p_(N)=105 μΩ cm. Figures 1(b) and 1(c) show the temperature dependence
of the resistivity after subtracting the residual resistivity that has
been estimated by the extrapolation of the p_(P) and p_(N) curves to
T=0.

The clustering of atoms in chains results in the quasi-one-dimensional
conduction band model first proposed by Kamimura on the example of
(SN)_(x). [13, 21] It was shown that electron-electron Umklapp
scattering dominates the electronic transport, whereas electron-phonon
and electron-electron normal scattering are negligible. [22] The
temperature dependence of the resistivity is given by the power law
ρ−ρ₀=CT^(n) (C=const.). For k_(B)T≤(0.1 − 0.3)γ, where γ is the
interchain interaction energy, n takes values of 2 ≤ n ≤ 3, and for
k_(B)T>∣γ, n=1. The power law fit of both ρ_(P) and ρ_(N) in Fig. 2(b)
is possible below T=15 K whereas a linear temperature dependence is
observed above T=250 K. The resistivity for I↑↑b axis takes the form
ρ=ρ₀+CT^(n) with n =2.1±0.1, C=(1.40 ± 0.02)10⁻⁸Ω cm/K^(n), and
resistivity for I⊥b axis has the same temperature dependence with n
=2.07±0.04, C=(7.1 ± 0.7)10⁻⁸Ω cm/K^(n).

Low temperature thermodynamic, magnetic, and transport properties are
shown in Fig. 3. The jump Δ ct T=2.0 K in the specific heat and 25

Figure 3: (Color online) Superconductivity in Nb₂Se₃. Left axis shows
thermodynamic properties (heat capacity and magnetization) and right
axis shows electrical transport properties for current applied parallel
(red symbols) and perpendicular (violet symbols) to Nb chains (b axis of
the unit cell).

Figure 2: (Color online) (a) Electrical transport for the current
applied parallel (red) and perpendicular (blue) to Nb chains (b axis of
the crystal structure) of Nb₂Se₃. (b) ρ-ρ₀(T) for current applied
parallel (left) and perpendicular to Nb chains (right).

resistivity is complete whereas resistivity for I ⊥ _b_-axis (ρ_(N))
shows a structure and the change of slope. Finally, at bulk _T__(C)=2.0
K, ρ_(N) is fully superconducting. Magnetic susceptibility _M_/_H_ is
diamagnetic already at T_(o)^(onset) and its magnitude grows towards
bulk superconductivity below _T__(C)=2.0 K. By fitting the temperature
dependence of the specific heat in the normal state using C = γT+ βT³,
we obtain _C_/_T_ = γ =9.96 +- 0.2 mJ/mol k² and θ_(D)=223 +- 3 K using
the relation θ_(D)³= (12/5) (π²nR/β), where R is the gas constant and n
is the number of atoms per molecule.

Figure 4 presents temperature-dependent electrical resistivity data for
Nb2Se3 taken at a variety of applied fields for H <= 12 kOe for field
applied parallel and perpendicular to Nb chains and for the current
running parallel and perpendicular to Nb chains. Two features are
evident: there is a suppression of the superconducting phase to lower
temperatures for increasing applied field, and there is a negligible
magnetoresistivity in the normal state. The decrease of _T__(C) for I ↑
↑ b axis tracks the data well for I ⊥ b axis for a fixed field
direction. On the other hand, suppression of superconductivity is much
stronger for H ⊥ b axis (Nb chains) than for a field applied along the b
axis (parallel to Nb chains). A closer look at the temperature dependent
resistivity for I ⊥ b axis reveals a step in the superconducting
transition that persists up to 1 kOe. Using these data, _H__(c2)(_T_)
curve can be deduced (Fig. 5). We notice an almost linear temperature
dependence and relatively large anisotropy of the _H__(c2)(_T_) curve
for a magnetic field applied parallel and perpendicular to the Nb
chains. There is no sign of saturation down to the lowest temperature of
our measurement, 0.4 K.

By extrapolating _H__(c2)(_T_) data to _T_=0 we get values of
_H__(c2)(0)=7.5 kOe (_H_ ⊥ Nb chains) and _H__(c2)(0)=14 kOe (_H_ ↑ ↑ Nb
chains), which is significantly larger. Taken as a whole, the
temperature dependence of _H__(c2) for Nb2Se3 is similar to that found
for other quasi-one-dimensional superconductors, for example TaSe3,
Nb3Se4, and Nb3S4. By using _B__(C2)(_T_)=[Φ0/2πξ(_T_)] we obtain
coherence lengths ξ(0)=203 $\AA$ and ξ(0)=153 $\AA$ for a field applied
perpendicular and parallel to Nb chains, respectively, a bit shorter
than in Nb metal ξ(0)=380 $\AA$.

## V Discussion

Electronic transport in the normal state can be understood in the
framework of the theory of Oshiyama and Kamimura.[22] However, our
results imply that electron-electron Umklapp scattering is dominant not
only along the chain axis of a quasi-one-dimensional metal but also
perpendicular to it. The linear resistivity above 250 K and a
ρ∼_T_^(2.1) temperature dependence of resistivity for both ρ_(P) and
ρ_(N) below _T_=15 K, are consistent with the possible range of the
chain interaction energy 45 K <= γ <= 150 K. We note that the power law
temperature dependence of resistivity in vapor transport grown crystals
extends up to 40 K, implying a larger value of γ than what we obtained
in our work on flux grown crystals. The difference could arise due to
the presence of other scattering mechanisms besides electron-electron
Umklapp scattering. Alternatively, this may imply that the interchain
interaction energy is sensitive to crystalline disorder and
imperfections. The flux grown crystals have a higher residual
resistivity value ρ₀=26 μΩ cm for the current applied parallel to Nb
chains along the b axis of the crystal compared to crystals grown by
vapor transport reaction where ρ₀=0.5 μΩ cm.[13]

We turn now to the properties of the superconducting state. Using
McMillan’s expression[23]

Figure 4: (Color online) Temperature dependent resistivity for field
applied perpendicular (a),(b) and parallel to Nb chains (c),(d), with
current applied parallel (a),(c) and perpendicular (b),(d) to Nb chains.

Figure 5: (Color online) _H__(c2)(_T_) for fields applied perpendicular
(red) and parallel to Nb chains (blue symbols) with current applied
perpendicular (circles) and parallel to Nb chains (squares).

$$T_{C}=\frac{\Theta_{D}}{1.45}\exp\left\{-\frac{1.04(1+\lambda)}{\lambda-\mu^{*}(1+0 .62\lambda)}\right\}$$
(1)

and the value of the Debye temperature from the heat capacity analysis
θ_(D)=223 K, we estimate the value of the electron-phonon coupling
constant λ = 1.05 assuming the empirical value of pseudopotential μ^(*)
= 0.1. These results put Nb₂Se₃ in the class of the intermediate to
strong coupling superconductors. The specific-heat jump ΔC/(γT_(C)) =
0.5 (Fig. 3) is substantially smaller than the mean-field BCS value of
1.43.[24] in the weak-coupling superconductors, the reduced specific
heat jump can be interpreted in the terms of the energy gap anisotropy.
The effects of an anisotropic energy gap on the thermodynamic properties
of the BCS superconductors have been calculated in the seminal work of
John Clemm:

ΔC/(γT_(C)) = 1.426(1 − 4⟨a²⟩),
(2)

where ⟨a²⟩, the mean-squared anisotropy, is the average over the Fermi
surface of the square of the deviation of the energy-gap parameter from
its average.[25] Strong coupling effects and anisotropy in general tend
to work in opposite direction and the specific heat jump would be
enhanced by strong coupling. This would imply a rather strong anisotropy
of the superconducting gap in Nb₂Se₃. Equation (2) therefore gives a
rather conservative estimate of ⟨a²⟩ = 0.16. Table 1 compares the value
of electron phonon coupling parameter and the gap anisotropy for several
anisotropic superconductors.

Nb₂Se₃ exhibits zero resistivity for current applied along the b axis of
the crystal, parallel to Nb chains (ρ_(p)) at T = 2.2 K, whereas the
onset of this transition and the transition to a diamagnetic M/H is at
T_(ρ)^(onset)=2.4 K. However, the heat capacity shows a transition to a
bulk superconducting state at bulk T_(C)=2.0 K, where magnetic
susceptibility data for M/H shows a dive towards full Meissner effect.
These results suggest that the superconductivity of Nb₂Se₃ is a bulk
effect below T_(C) ∼ 2.0 K and filamentary in nature between
T_(ρ)^(onset) and T_(C). Nb₂Se₃ can be regarded as an aggregate of
one-dimensional chains that are weakly coupled through Josephson-type
junctions since the distance between the Nb atoms in a chain is metallic
but the interchain distance exceeds the metallic distance. The
temperature dependence of electrical resistivity for current I ⊥ b axis
(ρ_(N) is perpendicular to Nb chains) is consistent with this
interpretation. The onset temperature T_(ρ)^(onset) is the same for both
ρ_(p) and ρ_(N), however ρ_(N) shows zero resistivity only at bulk T_(C)
and a feature indicating another superconducting transition at T=2.2 K
that is visible in applied magnetic field up to 1 kOe. An alternative
explanation for this is a small misorientation in the current direction
during electrical transport measurement perpendicular to the Nb chains.
However, that would imply the presence of two T_(C)’s in two different
electronic substructures and negligible interband scattering.[26]

## VI VI Conclusion

In summary, we have showed bulk superconductivity and have investigated
the anisotropy in electrical transport properties in the normal and in
the superconducting state of Nb₂Se₃. Our results show that Nb₂Se₃ is in
the intermediate to large coupling limit of BCS theory with a possible
large mean-squared anisotropy of the energy gap on the Fermi surface.

More microscopic measurements such as NMR, neutron scattering, and
tunneling experiments would be very useful to quantify the question of
possible filamentary superconductivity above bulk T_(C) or multiband
features. We conclude that the Nb₂Se₃ is a promising model system to
study superconducting properties in quasi-one-dimensional metallic chain
systems.

###### Acknowledgements.

We thank S. L. Bud’ko, P. C. Canfield, M. Strongin, and Z. Fisk for
useful discussions. This work was carried out at the Brookhaven National
Laboratory which is operated for the U.S. Department of Energy by
Brookhaven Science Associates (DE-Ac02-98CH10886).

## References

* [1] J. G. Bednorz and K. A. Muller, Z. Phys. B: Condens. Matter
**64**, 189 (1986). * [2] Y. Maeno, H. Hashimoto, K. Yoshida, S.
Nishizaki, T. Fujita, J. G. Bednorz, and F. Lichtenberg, Nature (London)
**372**, 532 (1994). * [3] T. Ishiguro, K. Yamaji, and G. Saito,
_Organic Superconductors_, 2nd ed. (Springer, Berlin, 1998). * [4] C.
Petrovic, P. G. Pagliuso, M. F. Hundley, R. Movshovich, J. L. Sarrao, J.
D. Thompson, Z. Fisk, and P. Monthoux, J. Phys. Condens. Matter **13**,
L337 (2001). * [5] R. C. Morris, R. V. Coleman, and R. Bhandari, Phys.
Rev. B **5**, 895 (1972). * [6] N. Kaiser and J. Silk, Nature (London)
**324**, 529 (1986). * [7] I. C. McManus, Nature (London) **259**, 426
(1976). * [8] S. L. Bud’ko, V. G. Kogan, and P. C. Canfield, Phys. Rev.
B **64**, 180506 (2001).

  -------- ----------- ------ ------
            T_(C) (K)   ⟨a²⟩    λ
  NbSe₂        7.1      0.04   0.30
  Nb₃S₄       3.78      0.07   0.51
  Nb₃Se₄      2.31      0.15   0.51
  Nb₂Se₃       2.0      0.16   1.05
  Nb          9.25      0.01    1
  -------- ----------- ------ ------

Table 1: Fundamental parameters of the superconducting state of Nb-Se
and Nb-S superconductors. Data on Nb is given for comparison.

* [9] T. Yokoya, T. Kiss, A. Chainani, S. Shin, M. Nohara, and H.
Takagi, Science **294**, 2518 (2001). * [10] A. Perucchi, L. Degiorgi,
and R. E. Thorne, Phys. Rev. B **69**, 195114 (2004). * [11] T. Ishida,
K. Kanoda, H. Mazaki, and I. Nakada, Phys. Rev. B **29**, 1183 (1984). *
[12] K. Igaki and S. Nishine, J. Jpn. Inst. Met. **41**, 843 (1977). *
[13] M. H. Rashid and D. J. Sellmyer, Phys. Rev. B **29**, 2359
(1984). * [14] F. Kadijk, R. Huisman, and F. Jelinek, Acta Crystallogr.,
Sect. B: Struct. Crystallogr., Cryst. Chem. **24**, 1102 (1968). * [15]
E. Canadell, A. LeBeuze, M. A. El Khalifa, R. Chevrel, and Myung-Hwan
Whangbo, J. Am. Chem. Soc. **111**, 3778 (1989). * [16] Z. Fisk and J.
P. Remeika, in _Handbook on the Physics and Chemistry of Rare Earths_,
edited by K. A. Gschneider and J. Eyring (Elsevier, Amsterdam, 1989),
Vol. 12. * [17] P. C. Canfield and Z. Fisk, Philos. Mag. B **65**, 1117
(1992). * [18] P. C. Canfield and I. R. Fisher, J. Cryst. Growth
**225**, 155 (2001). * [19] A. Oshiyama, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **52**, 587
(1983). * [20] A. Oshiyama, Solid State Commun. **43**, 607 (1982). *
[21] H. Kamimura, A. M. Glazer, A. J. Grant, J. Natsume, M. Schreiber,
and A. D. Yoffe, J. Phys. C **9**,291 (1976). * [22] A. Oshiyama and K.
Kamimura, J. Phys. C **14**, 5091 (1981). * [23] W. L. McMillan, Phys.
Rev. **167**, 331 (1968). * [24] J. Bardeen, L. N. Cooper, and J. R.
Schrieffer, Phys. Rev. **108**, 1175 (1957). * [25] J. R. Clem, Ann.
Phys. **40**, 268 (1966). * [26] H. Suhl, B. T. Matthias, and L. R.
Walker, Phys. Rev. Lett. **3**, 552 (1959).
