# Superconductivity of the ternary boride Li₂Pd₃B probed by ¹¹B NMR

M. Nishiyama

Y. Inada

2 and Guo-qing Zheng

1Department of Physics, Okayama University, Okayama 700-8530, Japan

2Department of Science Education, Faculty of Education, Okayama
University, Okayama 700-8530, Japan

###### Abstract

We report a ¹¹B NMR measurement on the recently discovered
superconductor Li₂Pd₃B. The nuclear spin lattice relaxation rate 1/T₁
shows a well-defined coherence peak just below T_(c)(H=1.46 T) =5.7 K,
and the spin susceptibility measured by the Knight shift also decreases
below T_(c). These results indicate that the superconductivity is of
conventional nature, with an isotropic gap. Our results also suggest
that the p-electrons of boron and the d-electrons of palladium that
hybridize with boron p-electrons are primarily responsible for the
superconductivity.

pacs: DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.71.220505

PACS number(s): 74.70.Dd, 76.60.Cq

Since the discovery of high temperature superconductivity in copper
oxides,[1] compounds containing transition metal elements have become
targets for searching new strongly-correlated superconductors. In fact,
superconductivity was discovered in the cobalt oxide Na_(0.3)CoO₂⋅1.3H₂O
(Ref. 2), which was found to be of unconventional nature with strong
electron correlations in the normal state.[3] Meanwhile, the discovery
of superconductivity at 40 K in MgB₂ (Ref. 4) has generated recurred
interest on the physical properties of borides. Very recently, Togano
_et al._ found that the ternary metallic compounds containing boron and
palladium, Li₂Pd₃B, is superconducting at T_(c)∼ 7 K (Ref. 5). This
compound has a cubic structure with the space group of P4₃32, containing
a distorted Pd₃B octahedra, which is structurally similar to the
superconductor MgCNi₃ (T_(c)=8 K) (Ref. 6) and in some sense also
similar to the high-T_(c) copper oxides where the key structure is the
oxygen-containing octahedra. Although the physical properties of this
new compound are unexplored, it has been proposed that the correlations
of Pd d-electrons may be dominant in the electronic properties and may
also be responsible for the superconductivity.[7] Band calculation has
shown that Pd d-electrons contribute significantly to the density of
states at the Fermi level.[8]

In this Rapid Communication, we report the first ¹¹B nuclear magnetic
resonance (NMR) measurement in the superconducting and the normal
states. We find that the superconductivity is of
Bardeen-Cooper-Schrieffer (BCS) type with an isotropic energy gap. In
the normal state, the temperature (T) dependence of the nuclear
spin-lattice relaxation rate 1/T₁ and the Knight shift due to spin
susceptibility, K_(s) satisfies the so-called Korringa relation,
T₁TK_(s)²=const, with no signature of electron correlations. Our results
suggest that the superconductivity in Li₂Pd₃B is phonon-mediated.

The samples were prepared by the arc-melting method with starting
materials of Li (99.9

Figure 2 shows the spectrum at T=10 K. The full width at the half
maximum (FWHM) of the NMR line is less than 5 kHz. The very sharp
transition ensures the high quality of the sample. The temperature
dependence of the FWHM is shown in Fig. 3. It can be seen that the
spectrum broadens below T_(c) (H=1.46 T) =5.7 K, at which temperature
both 1/T₁ and the Knight shift shows anomaly (see below).

Figure 4 shows the temperature dependence of 1/T₁. In the normal state
above T_(c), 1/T₁ varies in proportion to T, as seen in conventional
metals. Just below T_(c)(H=1.46 T) =5.7 K, however, 1/T₁ increases as T
is reduced, showing a coherence peak, then decreases exponentially upon
further lowing T. This is the characteristic of s-wave, isotropic
superconductivity. The 1/T_(1s) in the superconducting state is
expressed as

Figure 1: The ac susceptibility measured using the NMR coil for Li₂Pd₃B
at zero magnetic field.

$$\frac{T_{1}(T=T_{c})}{T_{1s}}=\frac{2}{k_{B}T_{c}}\int\limits_{(N_{s}(E)^{2}+M_{s}( E)^{2})f(E)(1-f(E))dE},$$
(1)

where N_(s)(E) = N₀E/(E² − Δ²)^(1/2) is the superconducting density of
states (DOS) with Δ being the BCS gap, M_(s)(E) = N₀Δ/(E² − Δ²)^(1/2) is
the anomalous DOS due to the coherence factor,[9]N₀ is the DOS in the
normal state and f(E) is the Fermi function. Both M_(s)(E) and N_(s)(E)
diverge at E=Δ, so theoretically 1/T₁ diverges just below T_(c). In real
materials, however, broadening of the energy level and some anisotropy
in the energy gap will remove the singularity at E = Δ so that 1/T₁ only
shows a peak just below T_(c). Following Hebel,[10] we convolute
M_(s)(E) and N_(s)(E) with a broadening function B(E) which is
approximated with a rectangular function centered at E with a height of
1/2δ. The solid curve below T_(c) shown in Fig. 4 is a calculation with
2Δ(0) = 2.2k_(B)T_(c) and r= Δ(0)/δ=2. It fits the experimental data
reasonably well. The parameter 2Δ(0) is substantially smaller than the
BCS value of 3.5k_(B)T_(c)(H). This could be due to the effect of the
magnetic field, which usually reduces the gap size.[9]

Figure 5 shows the Knight shift, K, as a function of temperature. The
shift is small and T-independent within the experimental error in the
normal state, but changes abruptly at T_(c) where 1/T₁ shows the
coherence peak. Note that the change is positive, namely, K increases
below T_(c). The shift may be expressed as,

$$K=K_{\rm orb}+K_{s},$$
(2)

K_(s) = A_(hf)χ_(s),
(3)

where $K_{\rm orb}$ is the contribution due to orbital (Van Vleck)
susceptibility which is T-independent, A_(hf) is the hyperfine coupling
constant and χ_(s) is the spin susceptibility. K_(s) may be decomposed
into

Figure 4: (Color online) The temperature dependence of the spin lattice
relaxation rate, 1/T₁, measured at a field of H=1.4629 T. The straight
line above T_(c) represents the T₁T=const relation. The solid curve
below T_(c) is a calculation assuming the BCS gap function with the
parameter shown in the figure. For details, see the text.

Figure 5: (Color online) The temperature dependence of the Knight shift
measured at a constant field of H=1.4629 T. The straight line above
T_(c) is a guide to the eyes. The curve below T_(c) is the calculated
result assuming a BCS gap with the same parameter as in the calculation
of T₁.

Figure 3: The temperature dependence of the full width at the half
maximum (FWHM) of the ¹¹B NMR spectrum.

Figure 2: The Fourier transformed ¹¹B NMR spectrum measured at T=10 K at
a magnetic field of H=1.4629 T.

superconductivity of the ternary boride...

K_(s) = K_(cp) + K₀,
(4)

where K_(cp) is the shift due to core polarization interaction between
the boron p electrons and the nuclear spins, which is negative, and K₀
is due to other interactions including the usual Fermi contact
interaction. The result that K_(s) increases below T_(c) indicates that
K_(cp) is dominant over K₀. Therefore, the DOS that decreases due to the
onset of superconductivity are due to boron p electrons, and/or d
electrons of palladium which hybridize with boron p electrons. If we
assume that the spin susceptibility vanishes completely, due to singlet
pairing, at T=1.6 K which is well below T_(c), then $K_{\rm orb}$ is
about 0.085±0.003

K_(s)^(sc) ∝ X_(s)^(sc) ∝ −∫N_(s)(E)(∂f(E)/∂E)dE
(5)

using the same gap parameter as in Fig. 4.

Finally, when the electrons responsible for the spin lattice relaxation
and the Knight shift are s-electrons,
T₁TK_(s)² = ℏ/(4πk_(B))(γ_(c)/γ_(N))²=2.55 × 10⁻⁶ sec⋅K (Korringa
constant), where γ_(c) and γ_(N) are the gyromagnetic ratio of electron
and ¹¹B nuclear spins, respectively. The observed value of T₁TK_(s)² in
the present case is 3.21×10⁻⁷ sec⋅K, which is much smaller than the
Korringa constant. This result also supports that the dominant electrons
that participate in the relaxation and the Knight shift are p electrons,
in which case the excess relaxation such as the orbital relaxation is
important so that the observed T₁TK_(s)² deviates from
ℏ/(4πk_(B))(γ_(c)/γ_(N))².

In summary, through the measurements of ¹¹B NMR, we find that the
spin-lattice relaxation rate 1/T₁ in the newly discovered Pd-containing
boride Li₂Pd₃B exhibits a well-defined coherence peak just below T_(c)
and decreases exponentially with further decreasing temperature. The
spin susceptibility as measured by the Knight shift K_(s) also decreases
below T_(c), suggesting a singlet spin pairing. In the normal state, the
Korringa relation, namely, T₁TK_(s)²=const is obeyed, indicating the
lack of electron correlations. Our results indicate that this compound
is a superconductor with an isotropic gap and that the superconductivity
occurs in the absence of electron correlations.

We thank T. Kato and K. Matano for assistance in some of the
measurements. This work was supported in part by a Grant-in-Aid for
Scientific Research from MEXT.

## References

* (1) J. G. Bednorz and K. A. Muller, Z. Phys. B: Condens. Matter
**64**, 189 (1986). * (2) K. Takada, H. Sakurai, E. Takayama-Muromachi,
F. Izumi, R. A. Dilanian, and T. Sasaki, Nature (London) **422**, 53
(2003). * (3) T. Fujimoto, G.-q. Zheng, Y. Kitaoka, R. L. Meng, J.
Cmaidalka, and C. W. Chu, Phys. Rev. Lett. **92**, 047004 (2004). * (4)
J. Nagamatsu, N. Nakagawa, T. Muranaka, Y. Zenitani, and J. Akimitsu,
Nature (London) **410**, 63 (2001). * (5) K. Togano, P. Badica, Y.
Nakamori, S. Ozimo, H. Takeya, and H. Hirata, Phys. Rev. Lett. **93**,
247004 (2004). * (6) T. He, Q. Huang, A. P. Ramirez, Y. Wang, K. A.
Regan, N. Rogado, M. A. Hayward, M. K. Haas, J. S. Slusky, K. Inumaru,
H. W. Zandbergen, N. P. Ong, and R. J. Cava, Nature (London) **411**, 54
(2001). * (7) M. Sardar and D. Sa, cond-mat/0404168 (unpublished). * (8)
Sharat Chandra, S. Mathi Jaya, and M. C. Valsakumar, cond-mat/0502525
(unpublished). * (9) D. E. Maclaughlin, in _Solid State Physics_, edited
by H. Ehrenreich _et al._ (Academic New York, 1976), Vol. 31, p. 1. *
(10) L. C. Hebel, Phys. Rev. **116**, 79 (1959).
