Effect of atomic disorder and Ce doping on superconductivity of
Ca₃Rh₄Sn₁₃:

Electric transport properties under high pressure

A. Slebarski,^(1, 2) J. Goraus,¹ M. M. Maska,¹ P. Witas,¹ M.
Fijalkowski,¹ C. T. Wolowice,³ Y. Fang,^(3, 4) and M. B. Maple³

¹Institute of Physics, University of Silesia, Uniwersytecka 4, 40-007
Katowice, Poland

²Centre for Advanced Materials and Smart Structures, Polish Academy of
Sciences, Oskofna 2, 50-950 Wroclaw, Poland

³Department of Physics, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla,
California 92093, USA

⁴Materials Science and Engineering Program, University of California,
San Diego, La Jolla, California 92093, USA

###### Abstract

We report the observation of a superconducting state below ∼8 K
coexistent with a spin-glass state caused by atomic disorder in Ce
substituted Ca₃Rh₄Sn₁₃. Measurements of specific heat, resistivity, and
magnetism reveal the existence of inhomogeneous superconductivity in
samples doped with Ce with superconducting critical temperatures T_(c)
higher than those observed in the parent compound. For Ca₃Rh₄Sn₁₃, the
negative value of the change in resistivity ρ with pressure P, dρ/dP
correlates well with the calculated decrease in the density of states
(DOS) at the Fermi energy with P. Based on band-structure calculations
performed under pressure, we demonstrate how the change in DOS would
affect T_(c) of Ca₃Rh₄Sn₁₃ under negative lattice pressure in samples
that are strongly defected by quenching.

2016 22 March 20162016 245126 2016 22 March 20162 245126 2

## 1 Introduction

The interplay of magnetic order and superconductivity is a key topic of
current research of strongly-correlated heavy fermion compounds,
high-T_(c) cuprates as well as iron-based pnictide or chalcogenide
superconductors. The destruction of superconductivity at the onset of
magnetic order has been well known; however, there are an increasing
number of new superconductors, which are found experimentally to be
closely linked to magnetism. Analysis of the magnetic ordering and its
coexistence with superconductivity may help to explain the pairing
mechanism in high-T_(c) and unconventional superconductors. In
particular, very recent reports demonstrate coexistence of
superconducting and spin-glass-like states in EuFe₂(As_(1 − x)P_(x)) [2]
and Ca_(0.9)Ce_(0.1)Fe₂As₂[3], which suggests an important role of
atomic disorder.

There are a number of strongly-correlated superconductors including
Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O_(8 + x), PrOs₄Sb₁₂[4, 5], CePt₃Si [6, 7], and CeIrIn₅[8],
in which the nanoscale electronic disorder is responsible for an
increase in T_(c). Similar behavior has been found in La₃Rh₄Sn₁₃[9] and
La₃Ru₄Sn₁₃[10], where nanoscale electronic disorder leads to the
increase of T_(c). Regarding the filamentary superconductivity observed
in known granular superconductors, it has been reported [11], for
example, that the filamentary superconductivity in CaFe₂As₂ suggests
that even nominally pure stoichiometric compounds can spontaneously
become electronically inhomogeneous at the nanoscale. In the similar
compound, BaFe₂As₂[12], a spin-glass-like antiferromagnetic state was
found to be coexist with superconductivity along domain walls. It is
widely believed that disorder plays a key role in the new
superconductors. In particular, such disorder can have noticeable
effects on T_(c). In this study, we report an increase in T_(c) when Ce
is substituted for Ca in the skutterudite-related Ca₃Rh₄Sn₁₃
superconductor. We argue that it can be a result of the disorder induced
by the substitution. The results will contribute to a better
understanding of the complex low-temperature properties observed in
superconducting strongly-correlated electron systems.

## 2 Experimental details

The Ca₃Rh₄Sn₁₃ and Ce₃Rh₄Sn₁₃ polycrystalline samples were prepared by
arc melting the constituent elements on a water cooled copper hearth in
a high-purity argon atmosphere with an Al gelter. The
Ca_(3 − x)Ce_(x)Rh₄Sn₁₃ alloys were then prepared by diluting the parent
compounds with nominal compositions of Ce and Ca, which were then
annealed at 870 degC for 2 weeks. All samples were examined by x-ray
diffraction (XRD) analysis and found to have a cubic structure (space
group $Pm\bar{3}n$) [13]. XRD data were refined using fullprof program
[14] with pseudo-Voight line shape, yielding the profile R factor
R_(p) < 4, the weighted profile R factor R_(wp) < 5, and R_(exp) ≈ 0.5.
Figure 1(a) shows a representative XRD pattern for Ca₃Rh₄Sn₁₃ together
with its Rietveld refined pattern. From the XRD patterns measured at
T = 300, 160, and 12 K, we identified the cubic structure of
Yb₃Rh₄Sn₁₃-type for Ca₃Rh₄Sn₁₃. No evidence of simple cubic-to-bcc
structural distortion was found in Ca₃Rh₄Sn₁₃, while the low-temperature
XRD data show superlattice reflections for x ≥ 1.5 components of
Ca_(3 − x)Ce_(x)Rh₄Sn₁₃ in the low 2θ region [see Fig. 2(a)],
interpreted (cf. Refs. [15, 16]) as a structural transition from simple
cubic to I43d bcc structure, involving crystallographic cell doubling.
Figure 2(b) exhibits the abnormal volume change at the temperature of
structural distortion found for x ≥ 1.5, which is, however, not observed
for the parent compound. The refined lattice parameters shown in Fig.
1(c) and corresponding atomic positions were used in our band-structure
calculations. The lattice parameters of the Ca_(3 − x)Ce_(x)Rh₄Sn₁₃
alloys measured at room temperature follow Vegard’s law, which suggests
good sample quality and stoichiometry of the components x. Stoichiometry
and homogeneity were checked by the electron microprobe technique
(scanning microscope JSM-5410) and by XPS analysis. Deviations from the
nominal composition were small. The experimentally obtained compositions
from the total surface of the sample were very close to the assumed one,
e.g., for Ca_(2.4)Ce_(0.6)Rh₄Sn₁₃ with the assumed atomic concentration
ratio 12:3:20:65, respectively we determined 12.05 at.

The difference spectrum shown in Fig. 1(a) (green line) results from the
differences in peak shape, which we attribute to atomic disorder in
Ca₃Rh₄Sn₁₃. It was reported [17, 18], that Ca-Sn1 antisite defects
generated at high temperatures and then frozen-in by rapid quenching to
room temperature are responsible either for the degradation of the
superconducting transition temperature T_(c) or a reduction in the
lattice parameter a in Ca₃Rh₄Sn₁₃. Figure 1(b) exhibits the T_(c) versus
T_(Q) (the temperature from which the samples were quenched) data taken
from Ref. [17]. In the quenching temperature range ∼810-300 ^(∘)C, T_(c)
of Ca₃Rh₄Sn₁₃ is lowered from 8.4 K in the as-grown sample down to 6.9 K
in the sample, which was quenched at ∼810 K [17]. Hence the value of
T_(c) ∼ 4.8 K and the lattice parameter $a=9.6991\,\mathrm{\AA}$ for the
sample melted in arc (shown in the figure) can be explained by rapid
quenching at T_(Q) of about 2000-3000 K.

Figure 2: (a) X-ray diffraction of Ca_(0.2)Ce_(2.8)Rh₄Sn₁₃ with Cu K_(a)
radiation at different temperatures for small 2θs to exhibit additional
superlattice reflections at T = 160 K and below. (b) The temperature
change of the distance d(T) in different compounds
Ca_(3 − x)Ce_(x)Rh₄Sn₁₃, normalized to the d value at T = 300 K between
422 crystallographic planes, obtained from Bragg equation λ = 2dsin θ(T)
for diffraction line (422). Arrows indicate the temperature of the
structural distortion (T_(D)) for the components x = 1.5, 2.5, and 2.8.
There is a change of intensity of the XRD diffraction lines at T_(D),
not shown here (cf. Ref. [16]). In (a), for T ≤ 160 K, the intensity of
the superlattice reflection at 2θ ≈ 22^(∘) shows linear increase vs
decreasing T.

Figure 1: (a) X-ray diffraction pattern for the Ca₃Rh₄Sn₁₃ compound. The
green line represents the differences between the blue and red line peak
shapes. (Inset) The temperature change of the (422) and (430) XRD lines
between 12 and 300 K. There was no change of d_(bil) vs T,
characteristic of the structural phase transition. (b) T_(c) and the
lattice parameter a for Ca₃Rh₄Sn₁₃ plotted against different quenching
temperatures T_(Q). The data at T_(Q) = 505, 679, and 804 ^(∘)C are
taken from Ref. [17]. Temperature T_(c) = 4.8 K and the room-temperature
lattice parameter $a=9.6991\,\mathrm{\AA}$ for the arc-melted sample are
expected at T_(Q) ∼ 2000 K. (c) The lattice parameter a plotted against
Ce concentration x for the Ca_(3 − x)Ce_(x)Rh₄Sn₁₃ system. The dotted
line is a linear fit to the data.

Electrical resistivity ρ at ambient pressure was investigated by a
conventional four-point ac technique using a Quantum Design Physical
Properties Measurement System (PPMS). Measurements of ρ under pressure
were performed in a beryllium-copper, piston-cylinder clamped cell (for
details, see Ref. [19]).

Specific heat C was measured in the temperature range 0.4-300 K and in
external magnetic fields up to 9 T using a Quantum Design PPMS platform.
The dc magnetization M and (dc and ac) magnetic susceptibility χ were
obtained using a commercial superconducting quantum interference device
magnetometer from 1.8 to 300 K in magnetic fields up to 7 T.

The XPS spectra were obtained with monochromatized Al K_(a) radiation at
room temperature using a PHI 5700 ESCA spectrometer. The polycrystalline
sample was broken under high vacuum better than 6 × 10⁻¹⁰ Torr
immediately before taking a spectrum.

The band-structure calculations were accomplished using fully
relativistic full potential local orbital method (fplo9-00-34 computer
code [20]) within the local spin density approximation (LSDA) as well as
elk FP-LAPW/APW+lo code [21]. The exchange correlation potential V_(xc)
was used in the form proposed by Perdew-Wang [22] in both cases. The
number of k points in the irreducible wedge of Brillouin zone was 80.
The results obtained from both methods were accomplished for the same
V_(xc), and as expected were essentially the same. The elk code was used
for accurate calculations of the electron localization function (ELF),
whereas the FPLO method was used to study the pressure influence as it
is much faster due to a more advanced mixing scheme.

## III Results and Discussion

### Atomic disorder and superconductivity in Ca₃Rh₄Sn₁₃ revisited

iii.1.1 Magnetic properties of Ca₃Rh₄Sn₁₃ doped with Ce, evidence of
short-range magnetic order and the superconducting state

Ca₃Rh₄Sn₁₃ has been reported to be a paramagnetic [23] superconducting
compound with a T_(c)∼ 8.4 K. However, the superconducting state of this
compound was proposed [17] to be strongly dependent on the atomic
disorder, which, upon quenching, leads to a significant decrease in
T_(c). On the other hand, there are some examples of analogous
skutterudite-related superconductors (La₃Rh₄Sn₁₃[8, 24] and
La₃Ru₄Sn₁₃[9]), which show evidence of nanoscale disorder over length
scales similar to the coherence length as a bulk property, leading to an
inhomogeneous superconducting state with an enhanced critical
temperature T_(c)^(⋆) > T_(c). Here, T_(c)^(⋆) represents a drop of
resistivity connected to formation of percolation paths, whereas T_(c),
determined from the specific heat, indicates the onset of bulk
superconductivity. This behavior is also observed in other
strongly-correlated f-electron superconductors which we believe will
attract future attention. With this motivation, we present the magnetic
investigations of Ca₃Rh₄Sn₁₃ substituted with Ce. The χ versus T dc
magnetic susceptibility data obtained at 500 Oe in zero field (ZFC) and
field cooling (FC) modes shown in Fig. 4 reveals the onset of
diamagnetism and thermal hysteresis associated with the superconducting
state below T_(c)≈ 4.8 K for Ca₃Rh₄Sn₁₃. At the concentration of Ce
x = 0.1T_(c) jumps to about 8 K and remains at this value for x up to 1.
Then, with further increase of x it drops down and at x = 1.5 there is
no superconductivity. For a wide range of Ce concentrations, two
superconducting transitions are observed, what will be discussed later.
Figure 5 shows how these temperatures depend on x. Since the critical
temperature first increases with increasing x, then reaches maximum at
_optimal doping_ and then decreases, it forms a _dome_ similar to that
which is typical for the high-T_(c) cuprates. Of course, the main
difference is that for Ca₃Rh₄Sn₁₃ doped with Ce, there is no lower
critical concentration of Ce and as such the undoped parent compound
Ca₃Rh₄Sn₁₃ is superconducting. Within the _superconducting dome_ there
are two effects of disorder on the superconductivity, namely, the site
disorder induced by rapid quenching from high temperature, which
decreases T_(c) in the parent compound and the disorder that results
from doping with cerium, which increases superconducting transition. The
effect of these two types of disorder is clearly seen in Fig. 5; these
two types of disorder roughly can be distinguished by microanalysis (cf.
Fig. 3 and comment).

Measurements of the dc magnetic susceptibility performed on the parent
Ca₃Rh₄Sn₁₃ sample [cf. inset to Fig. 4(a)] reveal very weak thermal
hysteresis in the ZFC and FC data between ∼110 K and T_(c). This is a
significant phenomenon, which may be interpreted in several ways. One
interpretation could be the formation of a charge density wave (CDW)
ordering or a structural distortion. There are a few examples of
compounds that are isostructural to Ca₃Rh₄Sn₁₃, such as La-based [25]
superconductors or Sr₃Ir₄Sn₁₃ superconductors [14, 26], which

Figure 3: Variations in stoichiometry of Ca_(2.4)Ce_(0.68)Rh₄Sn₁₃ over
the length of the sample. The right panels show corresponding
histograms.

exhibit CDW ordering and structural distortions at about 100-140 K.
Since the structural distortion has not been observed in Ca₃Rh₄Sn₁₃[15],
a weak spin fluctuation in Ca₃Rh₄Sn₁₃ could also explain the observed
thermal hysteresis for T_(c) < T∼ 110 K. The high-temperature thermal
hysteresis observed in $\chi_{\rm dc}$ [Fig. 4(a)], $\chi_{\rm ac}$
versus frequency at T < T_(c) and resistivity measurements (shown later)
are also suggestive of a _granular effect_[27]. This scenario seems to
be very probable and will be discussed. In panel (b) of Fig. 4, χ can be
well approximated by the modified Curie-Weiss expression
$\chi=\chi_{0}+C/(T+\theta_{\rm CW})$ with Curie constant C = 0.807 K
emum/mol${}_{\rm cc}$ for Ce³⁺ ion, χ₀ = 3.7 × 10⁻⁴
emum/mol${}_{\rm cc}$, and $\theta_{\rm CW}=31$ K, suggesting
ferromagnetic correlations of Ce magnetic moments. For the similar
isovalent compound Ca₃I₄Sn₁₃, there are a number of similar anomalies in
the magnetic and electric transport properties at ∼38 K, which is well
above the superconducting transition; these features were attributed to
ferromagnetic spin fluctuations coupled to superconductivity [28, 29],
or a CDW effect [30]. In order to study the complex interplay of
magnetism and superconductivity in Ca_(3 − x)Ce_(x)Rh₄Sn₁₃ with x ≤ 0.5,
we have investigated the ac mass magnetic susceptibility vs frequency
and different ac amplitude of the magnetic field (Figs. 6 and 7). The
perfect diamagnetism of the full Meissner state
χ^(′) = −1/(4πd) = 9.587 × 10⁻³ emu/g for mass density d = 8.3 g/cm³[31]
is reached for Ca₃Rh₄Sn₁₃ below T_(c) = 4.6 K. The Ce doping and
increasing amplitude of the magnetic field systematically reduces the
Meissner effect about 73

Figure 8 shows the magnetization loops for the Ca_(3 − x)Ce_(x)Rh₄Sn₁₃
samples with x ≤ 0.5 and the irreversibility in the magnetization curves
observed for T < T_(c) at lower fields represents the effect of vortex
pinning. Moreover, Ca₃Rh₄Sn₁₃ is diamagnetic in the wide temperature
region [Fig. 8(a)] with weak magnetization hysteresis loops observed at
T = 6.10, and 50 K, which correlates with thermal hysteresis in the ZFC
and FC χ data presented in Fig. 4(a) and is not associated with the flux
pinning effect. For the alloys doped with Ce [cf. Fig. 8(b)], the
magnetization M versus b isotherms for B ≳ 1 T are characteristic of
paramagnets. The smaller hysteresis loop effect, as shown in the lower
panel of Fig. 8, is likely due to atomic disorder and related to the
more complicated effect of magnetic flux pinning.

A sharp superconducting transition in the specific heat data C(T)/T at
T_(c) = 4.6 K is shown for Ca₃Rh₄Sn₁₃ in Fig. 9(a). The C(T)/T data are
well approximated by the expression
$C(T)/T=\gamma+\beta T^{2}+\frac{1}{T}A\exp(-\Delta_{c}(0)/k_{\rm B}T)$.
The best fit gives an electronic coefficient γ = 6.1 mJ/mol K², β = 4
mJ/mol K⁴ and the energy gap at T = 0, $\Delta_{c}(0)/k_{\rm B}=16.0$ K.
From β = N(12/5)π⁴Rθ_(D)⁻³, we estimated the Debye temperature,
θ_(D) ∼ 213 K, which compares very well with the literature data [31].
The $C/T\sim\exp(-\Delta_{c}(0)/k_{\rm B}T)$ exponential behavior
indicates an s-wave and BCS character of superconductivity. We obtained
ΔC/(γT_(c)) ≅ 1.4(7) based

Figure 4: Magnetic susceptibility (dc) for Ca_(3 − x)Ce_(x)Rh₄Sn₁₃ in a
field-cooled (FC) and zero-field-cooled (ZFC) experiment with an applied
field 0.05 T. The data are shown for Ca₃Rh₄Sn₁₃ (a) and for the
compounds with x = 0.2 and 0.5 (b). The insets exhibit details in the
extended χ axes.

Figure 5: Superconducting critical temperature T_(c) (red points) and
T_(c)^(*) (blue points) of Ca_(3 − x)Ce_(x)Rh₄Sn₁₃ for x from 0 to 1.2
obtained from $\chi_{\rm ac}$. An increase in Ce doping leads to an
increase of the lattice constant [see Fig. 1(c)], suggesting an
effective _chemical pressure_ for the x ≤ 0, undoped system (discussed
later in the text).

on a value of the electronic specific heat coefficient γ = 34 mJ/mol K²
for T ≤ T_(c) at a field of 3 T; we also determined
$2\Delta_{c}(0)/k_{\rm B}T_{c}\approx 7.0$, which is larger than that
expected from the BCS theory [$2\Delta_{c}(0)/k_{\rm B}T_{c}$ = 3.52],
which indicates that Ca₃Rh₄Sn₁₃ may be categorized as a strong coupling
superconductor. The two lower panels, Figs. 9(b) and 9(c) display the
specific heat data C(T)/T and C(T), respectively, for
Ca_(2.5)Ce_(0.2)Rh₄Sn₁₃. There is no sharp transition at T_(c) in the
specific heat data shown in panel (b) Instead, the specific heat
displays a broad peak at T ≈ 0.6 K with a maximum value of C/T = 1.9
J/K² mol${}_{\rm Ce}$, which is strongly reduced by field, shifts to
higher temperatures, and is not related to the superconductivity of the
sample. We attribute this low-temperature C behavior to the formation of
a spin-glass-like magnetic state. The low-T heat capacity gives magnetic
entropy S = 1 J/K mol${}_{\rm Ce}$, while the limit S = Rln 2[32] is
reached at about 6 K, well above the C/T maximum. If the cause of the
maximum in C and C/T was due solely to a Kondo effect, then C/T should
be about 4 J/K² mol${}_{\rm Ce}$[33] in the limit of T → 0 (recently we
have shown a single ion Kondo impurity state for La-diluted
isostructural Ce_(3 − x)La_(x)Co_(x)Sn₁₃[33] and
Ce_(3 − x)La_(x)Rh₄Sn₁₃[24] series of compounds with small value of
Kondo temperature of about 1.5 K and C(T)/T value almost not x-dependent
and about 3-4 J/K² mol${}_{\rm Ce}$.) Moreover, the 4f contribution to
the specific heat, ΔC(T), should be approximated by the Kondo
resonant-level model [34], however, this is not a case. Within this
model the Kondo-impurity contribution to ΔC can be described by the
expression:

$$\Delta C = R\frac{2S\Delta_{K}}{\pi k_{\rm B}T}-2R\mathrm{Re}\left\{\frac{( \Delta_{K}+ig\mu_{\rm B}H)^{2}}{(2\pi k_{\rm B}T)^{2}}\right.$$
(1)
$$\times\left[(2S+1)^{2}\psi^{\prime}\left(1+\frac{\Delta_{K}+ig\mu _{\rm B}H}{2\pi k_{\rm B}T}(2S+1)\right)\right.$$
$$\left.-\left.\psi^{\prime}\left(1+\frac{\Delta_{K}+ig\mu_{\rm B} H}{2\pi k_{\rm B}T}\right)\right]\right\},$$

where ψ^(′) is the first derivative of the digamma function, and
$\Delta_{K}/k_{\rm B}$ is of the order of the Kondo temperature T_(K)

Figure 6: The real and imaginary components of the ac magnetic
susceptibility, χ^(′) and χ^(^(′′)), for Ca₃Rh₄Sn₁₃, as a function of
temperature measured in various magnetic fields (a) and at different
frequencies (b) in a field B = 4 Oe.

Figure 7: The real and imaginary components of the ac magnetic
susceptibility, χ^(′) and χ^(^(′′)), for Ca_(3.5)Ce_(0.2)Rh₄Sn₁₃ (a) and
Ca_(2.5)Ce_(0.5)Rh₄Sn₁₃ (b), as a function of temperature measured in
various magnetic fields. The inset to (b) shows how χ^(^(′′)) depends on
frequency for Ca_(2.5)Ce_(0.5)Rh₄Sn₁₃ with evidence of the spin-glass
state.

The best approximation gives Δ_(K) = 0, which eliminates the Kondo
impurity effect as dominant. Therefore the C(T) and $\chi_{\rm ac}(T)$
data for Ca_(2.8)Ce_(0.2)Rh₄Sn₁₃ indicate the coexistence of an
inhomogeneous superconducting phase (cf. Refs. [8, 9]) and a
spin-glass-like state at temperatures below T_(c). Very recently we have
discussed a very similar specific heat behavior in so strongly
disordered La₃Co_(x)Ru_(4 − x)Sn₁₃ superconductors [9] that the expected
specific heat jump and the onset of diamagnetism are spread out over a
very large temperature range. It has been shown that potential disorder
smooth on a scale comparable to the coherence length leads to large
modulation of the superconducting gap and large transition width,
similar to that shown in Fig. 7.

Figure 10 displays the zero field electrical resistivity ρ between 0.4
and 300 K for Ca_(3 − x)Ce_(x)Rh₄Sn₁₃ compounds, normalized to the value
of ρ at T = 300 K. The samples 0 ≤ x ≤ 0.5 show a superconducting
transition. The remaining compounds in the series for which x ≥ 1.5
exhibit ρ(T) that is characteristic of Kondo-lattice systems, with
distinct anomalies at T ≈ 160 K for the samples x = 2.5 and 2.8 due to a
subtle deformation of the Sn₁₂ cages (cf. Refs. [16, 35], and Fig. 2).
Now we will discuss the ρ(T) data for the superconducting samples.
Figure 11 shows the temperature dependence of the electrical resistivity
for x = 0, 0.2, and 0.5. The transitions in the doped samples are much
broader than for the x = 0 compound, which shows that substitution of Ce
for Ca introduces inhomogeneity into the system. It is interesting to
note the shape of ρ(T) for x = 0.5, which exhibits two clear separate
drops in ρ, one near T_(c1) = 8 K and another near T_(c2) = 6.7 K.
T_(c1) coincides with the temperature of the single transition for
x ≳ 1. The two distinct drops

Figure 8: Magnetization M vs magnetic field b for Ca₃Rh₄Sn₁₃ (a) and
Ca_(2.5)Ce_(0.3)Rh₄Sn₁₃ (b) at different temperatures. The insets
exhibit hysteresis loops at different temperatures.

Figure 9: (a) Temperature dependence of specific heat C(T)/T for
Ca₃Rh₄Sn₁₃ in various magnetic fields. The dotted blue line is the best
fit of the expression
$C(T)/T=\gamma+\beta T^{2}+\frac{1}{T}A\exp(-\Delta_{c}(0)/k_{\rm B}T)$
to the data. The C(T)/T and C(T) data vs T at different magnetic fields
are shown for Ca_(2.8)Ce_(0.2)Rh₄Sn₁₃ in (b) and (c), respectively.

in ρ for x = 0.5 indicate a double resistive phase transition to the
superconducting state. Such a double transition is typical for
inhomogeneous (granular) superconductors [36], in which isolated
superconducting _islands_ are formed at the higher temperature, T_(c1).
Then, at the lower temperature, T_(c2), a global phase coherence
develops at which point ρ  → 0. The double transition can also be seen
in the ac susceptibility [see Fig. 7(b)]: χ^(′) starts to diminish at
T = 8 K, but significantly decreases only for T < 6 K. Additionally, the
anomaly in χ^(′′) seen for temperatures between 6 and 8 K [the inset in
Fig. 7(b)] can be interpreted as a signature of the double transition
[37].

The inset in Fig. 10 displays ρ(T) for Ca_(2.8)Ce_(0.2)Rh₄Sn₁₃ in
various magnetic fields. The ρ(T) data exhibits a sharp transition near
T_(c), which is very similar to the behavior at T_(c) that was observed
for Ca₃Rh₄Sn₁₃ and Ca_(2.5)Ce_(0.5)Rh₄Sn₁₃. In Fig. 12, we show the H-T
phase diagram, where the critical temperatures were determined to be the
temperature at which ρ reaches 50

Figure 11: Electrical resistivity of the superconducting
Ca_(3 − x)Ce_(x)Rh₄Sn₁₃ samples (x = 0, 0.2, and 0.5) normalized to ρ at
T = 10 K, near the critical temperature T_(c).

Figure 12: Temperature dependence of the upper critical field H_(c2) in
the H-T phase diagram for Ca₃Rh₄Sn₁₃ (symbols a and b),
Ca_(2.5)Ce_(0.2)Rh₄Sn₁₃, Ca_(2.5)Ce_(0.5)Rh₄Sn₁₃, respectively. T_(c)
values characterized by points a for Ca₃Rh₄Sn₁₃, and for the samples
x = 0.2 and 0.5, are obtained from electrical resistivity data under H,
and defined as the temperature at which ρ drops to 50

Ca2.5Ca0.8Rh4Sn13, _x_(0)* 2 9.0 nm. In Fig. 12, all these _H_r(_T_)
curves have a small initial positive curvature. This feature can also be
found in other skutterudites, such as PrOs4Sb12 [39]. It is interesting
that this compound also exhibits a double superconducting transition,
but it was claimed in Ref. [40] that the positive curvature of
_H_r2(_T_) is not related with sample inhomogeneities. A similar shape
of _H_r2(_T_) also appears in MgB2 [41], in borocarbides such as YNi2B2C
and LuNi2B2 [42], or in the cuprates [43].

The pressure (_P_) evolution of the electrical resistivity as a function
of temperature for Ca3Rh4Sn13 and Ca2.5Ca0.2Rh4Sn13 is displayed in
Figs. 13 and 14, respectively. From these data we obtained the pressure
coefficients _dTc_/_dP_ or _dTc_/_dP_ and _d_r_/_dP_. (i) The pressure
coefficients of T_(c)^(⋆) are -0.2 K/GPa for Ca3Rh4Sn13 and -0.3 K/GPa
for the x = 0.2 sample substituted with Ce. These values of
$\frac{dT^{\star}}{dP}$ are about twice those values for _Tc_, are found
in similar isostructural La-based superconductors (cf. Ref. [9]), and
seems to be characteristic of materials which show evidence of nanoscale
disorder leading to an inhomogeneous superconducting state with
T_(c)^(⋆) > T_(c).

Within the Eliashberg theory of strong-coupling superconductivity [44],
the McMillan expression [45, 46]

$$T_{c}=\frac{\theta_{\rm D}}{1.45}\exp\left[\frac{-1.04(1+\lambda)}{\lambda- \mu^{\star}(1+0.62\lambda)}\right],$$
(2)

as a solution to the finite-temperature Eliashberg equations, gives an
estimate of the electron-phonon coupling parameter λ ≈ 0.62 (for
T_(c)^(⋆) phase λ^(⋆) ≈ 0.63), when the Coulomb repulsion μ^(⋆) is
assumed to be ∼0.1 as a typical value known for s and p band
superconductors. The electron-phonon coupling λ is given by the
expression [45, 47],

$$\lambda=\frac{N(E_{F})\langle I^{2}\rangle}{M\langle\omega^{2}\rangle},$$
(3)

where ⟨I²⟩ is the square of the electronic matrix element of
electron-phonon interactions averaged over the Fermi surface, ⟨ω²⟩ is an
average of the square of the phonon frequency, and M is the atomic mass,
is larger for the inhomogeneous superconducting T_(c)^(⋆) state with
respect to the bulk effect observed below _Tc_, which may lead to a
larger value of dT_(c)^(⋆)/dP than dT_(c)/dP. The primary reason for
$\frac{dT_{c}}{dP}>\frac{dT_{c}}{dP}$ is the pressure of θ_(D), which
leads to larger lattice stiffening in the T_(c)^(⋆) phase with respect
to the bulk effect below _Tc_ and contributes to the T_(c)^(⋆) > T_(c)
effect. The dependence is given by the Gruneisen parameter
$\gamma_{G}=-\frac{d\ln\theta_{D}}{d\ln\varphi}$, which determines the
lattice stiffening. Using the McMillan expression it was found [48] that
γ_(G) strongly determines the magnitude and sign of _dTc_/_dP_. It is
also probable that in the case of inhomogeneous superconductivity, the
pressure dependence of the density of states at the Fermi level is more
pronounced than in bulk superconductors, and may lead to a larger value
of dT_(c)^(⋆)/dP than dT_(c)/dP. (ii) For T > _Tc_, the electrical
resistivity (Fig. 13) shows the positive coefficient dρ/dP for
Ca3Rh4Sn13, while for the Ce doped sample (Fig. 14)
$\frac{d\rho}{dP}<0$. This diverse ρ versus P behavior is interpreted as
a result of the pressure dependent band structure near the Fermi energy
(which will be discussed below).

### Band structure of Ca3Rh4Sn13 under pressure

Figure 15 compares the valence-band x-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (VB
XPS) spectra for Ca3Rh4Sn13 and the calculated bands. The ground state
is calculated as nonmagnetic. A comparison of the theoretical and
experimental results shows that the calculated density of states (DOS)
reflects all of the features found in the VB XPS spectra for Ca3Rh4Sn13.
The most intense peak at about 3 eV originates mainly from the Rh 4d
states, which are hybridized with the 5p states of Sn2.

Figure 14: Electrical resistivity for Ca2.5Ce0.2Rh4Sn13 under applied
pressure. The left inset shows the details near the critical
temperature. The right inset displays the value of ρ measured just above
_Tc_ at T = 9 K.

Figure 13: Electrical resistivity for Ca3Rh4Sn13 under applied pressure.
The left inset shows the details near the critical temperature. The
right inset displays the value of ρ measured just above _Tc_ at T = 5 K.

The inset exhibits a maximum in the DOS at the Fermi energy with a
significant contribution coming from the Sn2 5p states, which suggests
the importance of these electronic states in electric transport.

In order to understand the effect of pressure on the band structure, the
DOS calculations were performed for hypothetical lattice parameters that
are smaller compared to the parameters that were measured at room
temperature. We used the Birch-Murnaghan isothermal equation of state
[49] to estimate the hypothetical applied pressure that would correspond
to a systematic decrease in the unit cell volume:
$V(P) = V(0)[1 + \frac{B^{\prime}}{P}B^{\prime}]^{- 1/B^{\prime}}$,
where V(0) is the unit cell volume experimentally obtained at room
temperature and ambient pressure, B = 91.64 GPa is the calculated bulk
modulus, and B^(′) = 4.95 is its pressure derivative. Figure 16 displays
the calculated DOS at various pressure. There is a systematic change in
the DOS versus P near E_(F). However, it is interesting to note the
change in the DOS vs P at the Fermi energy as an explanation for the
observed coefficient $\frac{d\rho}{dP} \to 0$, shown for Ca3Rh4Sn13 in
Fig. 13. Our calculations documented the linear decrease of the total
DOS at E_(F) with P in the region of P < 4.5 GPa, giving
$\frac{d(DOS)}{dP}\cong-1.3$ eV⁻¹ GPa⁻¹ (the proper DOSs taken from Fig.
13), which correlates well with the observed positive
$\frac{d\rho}{dP} \cong 1.2$μΩ GPa⁻¹ at applied pressure P < 2.5 GPa.
This simple estimate bases on the relation ρ ∼ 1/n between the
resistivity and the number of carriers n, that naively reflects the DOS
at the Fermi level. Moreover, the value of d(DOS)/dP roughly agrees with
the pressure dependence of ρ in the limit of low T.

Secondly, a linear change of the calculated DOS(P) at E_(F) with the
change of the lattice parameter a was obtained on the basis of the
Birch-Murnaghan isothermal equation of state. Namely, the calculated DOS
decreases with decreasing volume of the sample. Assuming that this
linearity is extended to the region of _negative_ lattice pressure (as
is the case for Ca3Rh4Sn13 with T_(c) ∼ 8 K, cf. Fig. 1 and Ref. [17])
and that U does not strongly depend on P, we attempt to demonstrate how
the change in DOS would increase T_(c) for Ca3Rh4Sn13. This would follow
from the BCS equation [50]T_(c) = θ_(D)e^(−1/DOS(E_(F))U) and the
expression for the DOS:
DOS(E_(F))$U \sim \frac{1-\mu^{*}}{1+\lambda}$[51]. We considered the
calculated DOS for our sample with T_(c) = 4.8 K at ambient pressure in
order to estimate the value of U. A simple approximation gives
T_(c) ≈ 10 K, which is comparable to the value of T_(c) ∼ 8.4 K that was
found experimentally for the as-grown sample (cf. Fig. 1 and Ref. [17]).

The proposed model explains too the higher value of
Ca3-_(x)Ce_(x)Rh4Sn13 samples with 0 < x < 1 compared to the parent
compound Ca3Rh4Sn13 with T_(c)^(⋆) = 4.9 K. For Ca2.5Co2.Rh4Sn13, one
can expect an increase of the DOS at E_(F) caused by either the presence
of Ce f states (cf. Fig. 16 displays the total DOS for isostructural
Ce3Rh4Sn13) or a larger lattice parameter (as is shown in Fig. 1) than
what was observed in the parent compound. Within our model, even a
slight increase in the DOS at E_(F) may cause a significant increase in
T_(c) for Ca2.9Ce0.1Rh4Sn13 relative to the value of T_(c) observed for
the parent compound Ca3Rh4Sn13. It is apparent that the external
pressure shifts the DOS of Ce3Rh4Sn13 toward the Fermi energy and
therefore one can expect an effective increase in the total DOS at E_(F)
with increasing P for Ce-doped alloys as well. This behavior correlates
well with the observed negative $\frac{d\rho}{dP}$ at low T, as is shown
in the inset of Fig. 14.

Previously we discussed the effect of nanoscale disorder leading to an
inhomogeneous superconducting state with

Figure 16: The total and spin-resolved density of states near the Fermi
energy within the LSDA approximation at various pressures, calculated
for Ca3Rh4Sn13. The dotted blue line represents the total DOS calculated
for Ce3Rh4Sn13.

Figure 15: Valence-band XPS spectrum for Ca3Rh4Sn13 compared with the
calculated total and spin-resolved density of states within the LSDA
approximation. The figure also shows Ca 4s, Rh 4d, and Sn2 5p and 5s
states for Ca3Rh5Sn13. The inset exhibits the energy distribution of
these partial DOS near the Fermi energy.

the critical temperature T_(c)^(⋆) higher than T_(c) of the bulk phase.
This scenario seems, however, not to be adequate for Ca₃Rh₄Sn₁₃, where
the difference T_(c)^(⋆) − T_(c) ∼ 0.1 K is small and hardness of the
both superconducting phases is very similar. We can not, however,
exclude the impact of the disorder on the T_(c)^(⋆) of Ce-doped alloy,
as an additional effect, evident in temperature dependence of the
specific heat. It was shown theoretically [52,53] and experimentally
[2,54] that the superconducting transition temperature is higher in the
presence of the spin-glass state compared to the noninteracting case.
Generally, disorder can either suppress or significantly increase T_(c)
values [55]. The Ce-doped Ca₃Rh₄Sn₁₃ seems to be an example of
strong-coupling superconductor with the spin-glass-like state documented
experimentally and generated by an atomic disorder.

iii.2.3 Bonding properties of Ce₃Rh₄Sn₁₃ investigated by electron
localization function, absence of structural distortion

For the series of skutterudite-related compounds, Ce₃M₄Sn₁₃ and
La₃M₄Sn₁₃, where M is a d-electron metal, the charge density analysis
revealed a strong charge accumulation between the M and Sn2 atoms, which
implies a strong covalent bonding interaction and leads to a subtle
structural transition at T_(D) ∼ 150 K [56]. In this class of materials,
the structural deformation is usually accompanied by formation of a
charge density wave (CDW) phase transition, and under external pressure
T_(D) → 0 defines a novel structural quantum critical point [14]. The
structural deformation, however, was not documented for Ca₃Rh₄Sn₁₃. To
determine the subtle bonding properties of the charge distribution in
Ca₃Rh₄Sn₁₃, we present a full-potential chemical-bonding analysis via
calculation of the electron localization function within the density
functional theory [57]. The ELF distribution is given by
η(r⃗) = [1 + χ²(r⃗)]⁻¹, where

$$\chi(\vec{r})=\frac{\frac{1}{2}\sum_{i}|\vec{\nabla}\psi_{i}|^{2}-\frac{1}{8} \frac{(\vec{\nabla}\rho)^{2}}{\rho}}{\frac{3}{10}(3\pi^{2})^{2/3}\rho^{5/3}}.$$
(4)

$\vec{\nabla}\psi_{i}(\vec{r})\equiv\psi_{i\vec{k}}(\vec{r})$ are the
crystal wave functions with band index v and wavevector k⃗, and ρ(r⃗) is
the total charge density.

ELF isosurfaces are shown in Fig. 17(a). Figure 17(b) exhibits the ELF
distribution in the plane ($00\frac{1}{4}$) for Ca₃Rh₄Sn₁₃. The ELF
maxima are located on the atoms in the plane, but the covalent bonding
between Rh and Sn atoms, characteristic of Ce₃M₄Sn₁₃ and La₃M₄Sn₁₃
counterparts [56] are not observed. This covalent bonding is a cause of
structural distortion at T_(D) ∼ 100-160 K in the Ce₃M₄Sn₁₃ and
La₃M₄Sn₁₃ compounds. This superlattice transition that is connected to a
CDW instability of the conduction electron system which is observed in
most of these compounds is not observed in Ca₃Rh₄Sn₁₃. For Ca₃Rh₄Sn₁₃,
the ELF analysis also confirms that the thermal hysteresis present in χ
as shown in Fig. 4 is not of the CDW origin but results rather from the
inhomogeneity of the sample.

IV Electronic structure and magnetic properties of
Ca_(3 − x)Ce_(x)Rh₄Sn₁₃ with Kondo lattices for x ≥ 1.5

In order to explain the (de)localized character of the Ce 4f-electron
states in the system of Ca_(3 − x)Ce_(x)Rh₄Sn₁₃ allows we analyze the
valence band and the Ce-3d core level XPS spectra. The VB XPS bands
shown in Fig. 18(a) are very similar across the series x of compounds we
investigated, which suggests that the Rh 4d-electron states dominate the
shape of the bands, while the 4f-electron state contribution is small.
This behavior is typical for isostructural compounds RE₃M₄Sn₁₃. The LSDA
calculations (cf. Fig. 15) support these experimental observations.

In panel (b) of Fig. 18, the Ce-3d core level XPS spectra the well
localized Ce 4f-electron states and the weak hybridization between the
Ce 4f-electron and conduction band states, characterized by energy Δ.
The qualitative analysis of the 3d XPS spectra shown in Fig. 18(b) was
performed based on the Gunnarsson and Schonhammer theoretical method.
The model (for details see Refs. [58, 59, 60]) explains a complex
structure of the Ce-3d core level XPS spectra in which the main
3d_(3/2)⁹4f¹ and 3d_(3/2)⁹4f¹ spin-orbit splitting components of the
final states are associated with the stable configuration of the Ce-4f
shell and the contributions from the 3d⁹4f⁰ and 3d⁹4f² are due to
on-site hybridization

Figure 17: (a) ELF isosurfaces for Ca₃Rh₄Sn₁₃. (b) The ELF distribution
in the plane ($00\frac{1}{4}$) for Ca₃Rh₄Sn₁₃ calculated for P = 0 and
2.7 GPa. Note, that the pressure up to 2.7 GPa does not change the ELF
distribution.

between the f-electron states and conduction band. The presence of the
3d⁹4f⁰ sattelite line usually indicates an intermediate valence of the
Ce ions, while 3d⁹4f² reflects the hybridization effect which is
expressed by energy Δ = π V²DOS(ϵ_(F)). Standard analysis of the
intensities of the components of the Ce-3d XPS spectra shown in Fig.
18(b) suggests both the presence of Ce³⁺ ions [61] and also a small
hybridization energy Δ ≈ 80 ± 20 meV.

Our complex research suggests there is single-ion Kondo behavior in
Ca_(3 − x)Ce_(x)Rh₄Sn₁₃. Figure 19 shows the low-temperature specific
heat of Ca_(1.5)Ce_(1.5)Rh₄Sn₁₃ as C(T) in panel (a) and C(T)/T in panel
(b) as well as the low-temperature specific heat as C(T)/T in panel (c)
for the Ca_(0.2)Ce_(2.8)Rh₄Sn₁₃ compound. The large value of
C(T)/T ∼ 4 J/K² mol_(Ce) for T → 0 is typical for the family of
Ce₃M₄Sn₁₃ heavy Fermi liquids (cf. Refs. [24, 33]). Moreover, the
4f-electron contribution to the specific heat C is well approximated by
the Kondo resonant-level model. In Fig. 19(a), we present the fit of the
expression C(T) = γ₀T + βT³ + ΔC to the experimental data, where ΔC is
defined in Eq. (1). The level width Δ_(K)/k_(B) ≈ 0.95 K for B = 0 and
is found to increase with magnetic field (Δ_(K)/k_(B) ≈ 2.25 K for B = 6
T). This behavior is characteristic of a single-ion Kondo system.

Figure 20 shows the temperature dependence of the dc magnetic
susceptibility χ and inverse susceptibility data, 1/χ, for
Ca_(1.5)Ce_(1.5)Rh₄Sn₁₃, measured in a magnetic field of 500 Oe. The
experimental χ(T) and 1/χ(T) data can be well described in terms of CEF
model [62]:

$$\chi_{\mathrm{CEF}}=\frac{N\mu_{\mathrm{s}}^{2}}{k_{\mathrm{B}}}\frac{\sum_{i }\left(\frac{a_{i}}{T}+b_{i}\right)e^{-\beta\Delta_{i}}}{\sum_{i}g_{i}e^{- \beta\Delta_{i}}}+\chi_{0}.$$
(5)

(Here, the summations run over all i states of energies E_(i) with
Δ_(i) = E_(i) − E₀ and Boltzman constant, k_(B).) This model
appropriately reflects the tetragonal Ce point symmetry, where the
J = 5/2 multiplet of the Ce³⁺ ion splits into

Figure 19: (a) C(T) vs T and (b) C(T)/T vs T for
Ca_(1.5)Ce_(1.5)Rh₄Sn₁₃. In (a), the lines represent the fit of the
resonance level model to the experimental data. (c) shows C(T)/T at
various magnetic fields for Ca_(0.2)Ce_(2.8)Rh₄Sn₁₃.

Figure 18: (a) Valence-band XPS spectra for Ca_(3 − x)Ce_(x)Rh₄Sn₁₃,
which show very similar structure across the series x. (b) The Ce 3d XPS
spectra at the room temperature exhibit a deconvoluted spectrum for
Ca_(2.5)Ce_(0.9)Rh₄Sn₁₃ on the basis of the Gunnarsson-Schönhammer
theoretical model, as an example, with spin-orbit components 3d⁹4f⁰
(blue solid line) and 3d⁹4f² (blue dotted line). The brown solid line
represents the background, the solid red line shows the fit after
deconvolution to the XPS spectra. (From the deconvolution procedure, the
Sn 3s line contribution at 885 eV provides about 15

three doublets which are separated from the ground state by energies
Δ₁ ≈ 26 K and Δ₂ ≈ 303 K, respectively, and χ₀ ≈ −0.0013 emu/mol. The
tetragonal symmetry of the CEF may indicate the structural deformation
of the Sn2₁₂ cages in each of the Ca_(3 − x)Ce_(x)Rh₄Sn₁₃ alloys.
Recently [35], we documented that this subtle structural transition from
the simple cubic structure at room temperature to a superlattice variant
near T = 160 K modifies the electronic structure and various physical
properties of RE₃M₄Sn₁₃ compounds, where RE= La or Ce and M is a
d-electron-type metal. Indeed, for the compounds in the
Ca_(3 − x)Ce_(x)Rh₄Sn₁₃ series with x > 1, the measurements of
electrical resistivity reveal an abnormal change at T_(D) ∼ 160 K, which
could be interpreted as a transition between the semimetallic
(T < T_(D)) and metallic (T > T_(D)) state, generated by a distortion of
Sn2₁₂ cage. This interpretation is very probable, with consideration
that the structural distortion was also found in the parent compound
Ce₃Rh₄Sn₁₃. In this case, the Ca_(3 − x)Ce_(x)Rh₄Sn₁₃ series appears to
have a critical concentration x_(c) ≈ 1, which separates the different
behaviors of Ca₃Rh₄Sn₁₃ doped with Ce. The inset to Fig. 20 shows the
magnetization M vs B isotherms for Ca_(1.5)Ce_(1.5)Rh₄Sn₁₃, which are
characteristic of paramagnets. They are well approximated by the
Langevin function L(ξ) = coth (ξ) − 1/ξ, where $\xi=\mu B/k_{\rm B}T$,
with the total magnetic moment μ ≈ 0.9$\mu_{\rm B}$ at T = 1.8 K. The M
versus B isotherms do not show any hysteresis in the field dependence of
M and we noted that the magnetization M is well approximated by the
Langevin function for all the components of the Ca_(3 − x)Ce_(x)Rh₄Sn₁₃
series with x > 1. Finally, in Fig. 21 , we present the electrical
resistivity of Ca_(1.5)Ce_(1.5)Rh₄Sn₁₃ (a) and Ca_(0.2)Ce_(2.8)Rh₄Sn₁₃
(b) under applied external pressure. The pressure effect dρ/d P is
strong and positive (in the upper panel the resistivity at P = 1.29 GPa
for the sample x = 1.5 deviates from the expected value, this effect is
not discussed here. The subtle DOS effect at ϵ_(F) could be a possible
reason of this abnormal behavior, it seems to be also possible that this
is not a physical effect). A similar $\frac{d\rho}{d\rho}>0$ behavior
was recently observed for Ce₃Co₄Sn₁₃ and Ce₃Rh₄Sn₁₃[56] below the
temperature of structural distortion and has been documented as a result
of the band-structure properties near the Fermi energy under applied
pressure.

## V Conclusions

The resistivity of Ce-substituted Ca₃Rh₄Sn₁₃ samples exhibits
_high-temperature_ superconductivity with the highest T_(c) ≈ 8 K for
Ca_(2.8)Ce_(0.2)Rh₄Sn₁₃. This is much higher than the value of
T_(c) = 4.8 K for the parent compound. Magnetic measurements as well as
theoretical band-structure calculations predict a nonmagnetic ground
state in Ca₃Rh₄Sn₁₃. It is possible, however, that the substitution of
Ce for Ca forms a spin-glass-like phase which coexists with the
superconducting phase and that the superconductivity is enhanced in this
magnetic state. Although attempts have been made to explain the increase
in T_(c) for unconventional superconductors exhibiting disorder or a
magnetic phase, there is no clear answer as to why T_(c) rises in
materials in which a spin-glass-like state coexists with
superconductivity. The basis for the interpretation of the results
presented here is that the Ce substitution into the superconducting
parent compound Ca₃Rh₄Sn₁₃ increases

Figure 21: Electrical resistivity for (a) Ca_(1.5)Ce_(1.5)Rh₄Sn₁₃ and
(b) Ca_(0.2)Ce_(2.8)Rh₄Sn₁₃ under applied pressure. (Inset) Electrical
resistivity at T = 1.2 K as a function of P.

Figure 20: Magnetic susceptibility χ and 1/χ for Ca_(1.5)Ce_(1.5)
Rh₄Sn₁₃ in an external field of 500 Oe. The blue line represents the CEF
fit to the 1/χ data, with the two excited doublets separated from the
ground-state doublet by energy Δ₁ = 26 K and Δ₂ = 303 K, respectively.
(Inset) Magnetization M vs B isotherms for Ca_(1.5)Ce_(1.5)Rh₄Sn₁₃,
which are characteristic of paramagnets and well approximated by the
Langevin function L(ξ) = coth (ξ) − 1/ξ, where $\xi=\mu B/k_{\rm B}T$
with a total magnetic moment μ ≈ 0.9$\mu_{\rm B}$ at T = 1.8 K.

the inhomogeneity and chemical pressure in the sample. It is also
possible that the substitution affects T_(c) through the increase of the
DOS at the Fermi level. But results of the LSDA calculations presented
in Fig. 16 do not support such a scenario: the DOS at the Fermi level
for Ce₃Rh₄Sn₁₃ is slightly smaller than for Ca₃Rh₄Sn₁₃, though it does
not exclude the possibility that the DOS is larger at a lower doping
level. It is also difficult to definitely say how the substitution
modifies other parameters that enter the McMillan expression for T_(c).
The Ce-doping drives Ca₃Rh₄Sn₁₃ through a T_(c) versus x superconducting
_dome_ between x = 0 and x ≈ 1.2, similar to that documented for
high-T_(c) cuprates, and for x > 1.2, the compounds settle into a
Kondo-lattice state with structural distortion. Taken together, the
resistivity, specific heat and susceptibility measurements are
suggestive of granular superconductivity, a form of inhomogeneous
superconductivity. Interestingly, a _high_ value of T_(c) was observed
upon Ce substitution but in the absence of the structural deformation,
while in the Kondo-lattice range, the slight structural deformation is
visible in the resistivity data. Within the superconducting _dome_
region we documented, the relationship between the electronic structure
and the resistivity under external pressure for T > T_(c). Namely, we
calculated a linear decrease of the DOS at E_(F) with P which correlates
well with the measured negative coefficient dρ/dP. These observations
raise questions regarding the sensitivity of Cooper pairing in
Ca_(3 − x)Ce_(x)Rh₄Sn₁₃ and similar skutterudite-related systems to the
electronic structure, atomic disorder and bonding, which suggests
further detailed investigation.

###### Acknowledgements.

The research was supported by National Science Centre (NCN) on the basis
of Decision No. DEC-2012/07/B/ST3/03027. M.M.M. acknowledges support by
NCN under Grant No. DEC-2013/11/B/ST3/00824. P.W. acknowledges support
by NCN under Grant No. DEC-2015/17/N/ST3/02361. High-pressure research
at the University of California, San Diego, was supported by the
National Nuclear Security Administration under the Stewardship Science
Academic Alliance program through the U. S. Department of Energy under
Grant No. DE-NA0001841. One of us (A.S.) is grateful for the hospitality
at the University of California, San Diego (UCSD).

## References

* (1) S. Zapf, H. S. Jeevan, T. Ivek, F. Pfister, F. Klingert, S. Jiang,
D. Wu, P. Gegenwart, R. K. Kremer, and M. Dressel, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**110**, 237002 (2013). * (2) K. Nadeem, W. Zhang, D. Y. Chen, Z. A.
Ren, and X. G. Qiu, Sci. Rep. **5**, 10700 (2015). * (3) M. B. Maple,
P.-C. Ho, V. S. Zapf, N. A. Frederick, E. D. Bauer, W. M. Yuhasz, F. M.
Woodward, and J. W. Lynn, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. Suppl. **71**, 23 (2002) *
(4) R. Vollmer, A. Fait, C. Pfleiderer, H. v. Lohneysen, E. D. Bauer,
P.-C. Ho, V. Zapf, and M. B. Maple, Phys. Rev. Lett. **90**, 057001
(2003). * (5) J. S. Kim, D. J. Mixson, D. J. Burnette, T. Jones, P.
Kumar, B. Andraka, G. R. Stewart, V. Craciun, W. Acree, H. Q. Yuan, D.
Vandervelde, and M. B. Salamon, Phys. Rev. B **71**, 212505 (2005) * (6)
T. Takeuchi, T. Yasuda, M. Tsujino, H. Shishido, R. Settai, H. Harima,
and Y. Onuki, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **76**, 014702 (2007). * (7) A.
Bianchi, R. Movshovich, M. Jaime, J. D. Thompson, P. G. Pagliuso, and J.
L. Sarrao, Phys. Rev. B **64**, 220504(R) (2001). * (8) A. Slebarski, M.
Fijalkowski, M. M. Maska, M. Mierzejewski, B. D. White, and M. B. Maple,
Phys. Rev. B **89**, 125111 (2014). * (9) A. Slebarski, M. M. Maska, M.
Fijalkowski, C. A. McElroy, and M. B. Maple, J. Alloys Compds. **646**,
866 (2015). * (10) H. Xiao, T. Hu, A. P. Dioguardi, N. apRoberts-Warren,
A. C. Shockley, J. Crocker, D. M. Nisson, Z. Viskadourakis, X. Tee, I.
Radulov, C. C. Almasan, N. J. Curro, and C. Panagopoulos, Phys. Rev. B
**85**, 024530 (2012). * (11) A. P. Dioguardi, J. Crocker, A. C.
Shockley, C. H. Lin, K. R. Shirer, D. M. Nisson, M. M. Lawson, N.
apRoberts-Warren, P. C. Canfield, S. L. Bud’ko, S. Ran, and N. J. Curro,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **111**, 207201 (2013). * (12) J. P. Remeika, G. P.
Espinosa, A. S. Cooper, H. Barz, J. M. Rowel, D. B. McWhan, J. M.
Vandenberg, D. E. Moncton, Z. Fizk, L. D. Woolf, H. C. Hamaker, M. B.
Maple, G. Shirane, and W. Thomlinson, Sol. State Commun. **34**, 923
(1980); J. L. Hodeau, M. Marezio, J. P. Remeika, and C. H. Chen,
_ibid._**42**, 97 (1982). * (13) J. Rodriguez-Carvajal, Physica B
**192**, 55 (1993). * (14) L. E. Klinberg, S. K. Goh, P. L. Alireza, P.
J. Saines, D. A. Tompsett, P. W. Logg, J. Yang, B. Chen, K. Yoshimura,
and F. M. Grosche, Phys. Rev. Lett. **109**, 237008 (2012). * (15) S. K.
Goh, D. A. Tompsett, P. J. Saines, H. C. Chang, T. Matsumoto, M. Imai,
K. Yoshimura, and F. M. Grosche, Phys. Rev. Lett. **114**, 097002
(2015). * (16) A. Slebarski and J. Goraus, Phys. Rev. B **88**, 155122
(2013). * (17) J. P. A. Westerveld, D. M. R. Lo Cascio, and H. Bakker,
J. Phys. F: Met. Phys. **17**, 1963 (1987). * (18) J. P. A. Westerveld,
D. M. R. Lo Cascio, H. Bakker, B. O. Loopstra, and K. Goubitz, J. Phys.:
Condens. Matter. **1**, 5689 (1989). * (19) A. Slebarski, B. D. White,
M. Fijalkowski, J. Goraus, J. J. Hamlin, and M. B. Maple, Phys. Rev. B
**86**, 205113 (2012). * (20) K. Koepernik and H. Eschrig, Phys. Rev. B
**59**, 1743 (1999); I. Opahle, K. Koepernik, and H. Eschrig,
_ibid._**60**, 14035 (1999); K. Koepernik, B. Velicky, R. Hayn, and H.
Eschrig, _ibid._**55**, 5717 (1997); H. Eschrig, K. Koepernik, and I.
Chaplygin, J. Solid State Chem. **176**, 482 (2003); www.fpl.do.de. *
(21) elk FP-LAPW code, version 3.1.12, http://elk.sourceforge.net/ *
(22) J. P. Perdew and Y. Wang, Phys. Rev. B **45**, 13244 (1992). * (23)
C. V. Tomy, G. Balakrishnan, and D. McK. Paul, Phys. Rev. B **56**, 8346
(1997). * (24) A. Slebarski, P. Witas, J. Goraus, L. Kalinowski, and M.
Fijalkowski, Phys. Rev. B **90**, 075123 (2014). * (25) H. F. Liu, C. N.
Kuo, C. S. Lue, K.-Z. Syu, and Y. K. Kuo, Phys. Rev. B **88**, 115113
(2013). * (26) A. F. Fang, X. B. Wang, P. Zheng, and N. L. Wang, Phys.
Rev. B **90**, 035115 (2014).

* [27] D. Moseley, K. A. Yates, W. R. Branford, A. S. Sefat, D. Mandrus,
S. J. Starod, S. Salem-Sugui, L. Ghivelder, and L. F. Cohen, Europhys.
Lett. **111**, 37005 (2015). * [28] J. Yang, B. Chen, C. Michioka, and
K. Yoshimura, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **79**, 113705 (2010). * [29] K. Wang
and C. Petrovic, Phys. Rev. B **86**, 024522 (2012). * [30] S. Gerber,
J. L. Gavilano, M. Medarde, V. Pomjakushin, C. Baines, E. Pomjakushina,
K. Conder, and M. Kenzelmann, Phys. Rev. B **88**, 104505 (2013). * [31]
A. Haas, D. Wichert, G. Bruls, B. Luthi, G. Balakrishnan, and D. McK.
Paul, J. Low Temp. Phys. **114**, 285 (1999). * [32] We did not find
structural distortion for Ca_(2.8)Rh₄Sn₁₃. Considering a similar
situation for Ca_(2.8)Co_(2.0)Rh₄Sn₁₃, it can be assumed that the
crystal field ground state of Ce ion in the cubic symmetry is a
doublet. * [33] A. Slebarski, M. Fijalkowski, and J. Goraus,
Intermetallics **54**, 199 (2014). * [34] K. D. Schotte and U. Schotte,
Phys. Lett. **55**, 38 (1975). * [35] C. N. Kuo, H. F. Liu, C. S. Lue,
L. M. Wang, C. C. Chen, and Y. K. Kuo, Phys. Rev. B **89**, 094520
(2014). * [36] A. Gerber, T. Grenet, M. Cyrot, and J. Beille, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **65**, 3201 (1990); R. Gross, P. Chaudhari, D. Dimos, A. Gupta,
and G. Koren, _ibid._**64**, 228 (1990); A. Gerber, T. Grenet, M. Cyrot,
and J. Beille, Phys. Rev. B **43**, 12935 (1991); J. J. Neumeier and M.
B. Maple, Phys. C **191**, 158 (1992); E. A. Early, C. C. Almasan, R. F.
Jardim, and M. B. Maple, Phys. Rev. B **47**, 433 (1993); R. F. Jardim,
L. Ben-Dor, D. Stroud, and M. B. Maple, _ibid._**50**, 10080 (1994); D.
G. Stell, J. D. Hettinger, F. Yuan, D. J. Miller, K. E. Gray, J. H.
Kang, and J. Tavacchio, Appl. Phys. Lett. **68**, 120 (1996). * [37] K.
Nakatsuji, A. Sumiyama, Y. Oda, T. Yasuda, R. Settai, and Y. Onuki, J.
Phys. Soc. Jpn. **75**, 084717 (2006). * [38] V. V. Schmidt, _The
Physics of Superconductors_, edited by P. Mullerand and A. V. Ustinov
(Springer, Berlin, 1977). * [39] M.-A. Measson, D. Braithwaite, J.
Flouquet, G. Seyfarth, J. P. Brison, E. Lhotel, C. Paulsen, H. Sugawara,
and H. Sato, Phys. Rev. B **70**, 064516 (2004). * [40] M.-A. Measson,
D. Braithwaite, G. Lapertot, J.-P. Brison, J. Flouquet, P. Bordet, H.
Sugawara, and P. C. Canfield, Phys. Rev. B **77**, 134517 (2008). * [41]
S. L. Bud’ko and P. C. Canfield, Phys. Rev. B **65**, 212501 (2002). *
[42] S. V. Shulga, S.-L. Drechsler, G. Fuchs, K.-H. Muller, K. Winzer,
M. Heinecke, and K. Krug, Phys. Rev. Lett. **80**, 1730 (1998). * [43]
Yoichi Ando, G. S. Boebinger, A. Passner, L. F. Schneemeyer, T. Kimura,
M. Okuya, S. Watauchi, J. Shimoyama, K. Kishio, K. Tamasaku, N.
Ichikawa, and S. Uchida, Phys. Rev. B **60**, 12475 (1999). * [44] G. M.
Eliashberg, Sov. Phys. JETP **11**, 696 (1960); **12**, 1000 (1961). *
[45] W. L. McMillan, Phys. Rev. **167**, 331 (1968). * [46] R. C. Dynes,
Sol. State Commun. **10**, 615 (1972). * [47] J. J. Hopfield, Phys. Rev.
**186**, 443 (1969). * [48] Y. Shao and X. Zhang, J. Phys.: Conden.
Matter **16**, 1103 (2004). * [49] F. D. Murnaghan, Proc. Natl. Acad.
Sci. USA **30**, 244 (1944); F. Birch, Phys. Rev. **71**, 809 (1947). *
[50] J. Bardeen, L. N. Cooper, and J. R. Schrieffer, Phys. Rev. **108**,
1175 (1957). * [51] P. E. Seiden, Phys. Rev. **179**, 458 (1969). * [52]
A. I. Larkin, V. I. Mel’nikov, and E. D. Khmel’nitskii, Zh. Eksp. Teor.
Fiz. **60**, 846 (1971) [Sov. Phys. JETP **33**, 458 (1971)]. * [53] V.
M. Galitski and A. I. Larkin, Phys. Rev. B **66**, 064526 (2002). * [54]
B. A. Young, T. Saab, B. Cabrera, J. J. Cross, R. M. Clarke, and R. A.
Abusaidi, J. Appl. Phys. **86**, 6975 (1999). * [55] E. Z. Kuchinskii,
N. A. Kul’eva, and M. V. Sadovskii, J. Exp. Theoret. Phys. **120**, 1055
(2015); J. Mayoh and A. M. Garcia-Garcia, Phys. Rev. B **92**, 174526
(2015); I. S. Burmistrov, I. V. Gornyi, and A. D. Mirlin, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **108**, 017002 (2012); Luca Dell’Anna, Phys. Rev. B **88**,
195139 (2013); I. Martin, D. Podolsky, and S. A. Kivelos, _ibid._**72**,
060502(R) (2005); S. Chakraborty, D. Senechal, and A.-M. S. Tremblay,
_ibid._**84**, 054545 (2011); M. M. Maska, Z. Sledz, K. Czajka, and M.
Mierzejewski, Phys. Rev. Lett. **99**, 147006 (2007); P. M. Smith and M.
P. Kennett, Phys. Rev. B **88**, 214518 (2013). * [56] A. Slebarski and
J. Goraus, and P. Witas, Phys. Rev. B **92**, 155136 (2015). * [57] P.
Hohenberg and W. Kohn, Phys. Rev. **136**, B864 (1964). * [58] O.
Gunnarsson and K. Schonhammer, Phys. Rev. B **28**, 4315 (1983). * [59]
J. C. Fuggle, F. U. Hillebrecht, Z. Zolnierek, R. Lasser, Ch. Freiburg,
O. Gunnarsson, and K. Schonhammer, Phys. Rev. B **27**, 7330 (1983). *
[60] A. Slebarski, M. Radlowska, T. Zawada, M. B. Maple, A. Jezierski,
and A. Zygmun, Phys. Rev. B **66**, 104434 (2002); A. Slebarski, T.
Zawada, J. Spalek, and A. Jezierski, _ibid._**70**, 235112 (2004). *
[61] The occupation number of the 4 f shell, n_(f) = 1 − v, and
$v\cong\frac{I(p)}{I(p^{3})+I(f^{3})+I(f^{3})}$. In case of the
Ca_(1 − x)Ce_(x)Rh₄Sn₁₃ series, the 3d³4f⁰ line is not observed in the
Ce 3d XPS spectra, this suggests a stable configuration Ce³⁺ of the 4 f
shell. * [62] J. Mulak, J. Less Common Metals **121**, 141 (1986).
