# Role of two-dimensional electronic state in superconductivity in
La2-xSrxCuO4

Fumihiko Nakamura, Tatsuo Goko, Junya Hori, Yoshinori Uno, Naoki
Kikugawa, and Toshizo Fujita

Department of Quantum Matter, ADSM, Hiroshima University,
Higashi-Hiroshima 739-8526, Japan

16 September 1999

###### Abstract

We have measured out-of-plane resistivity ρ_(c) for La2-xSrxCuO4 under
anisotropic pressure. c-axis compression, which decreases ρ_(c) ,
reduces $T_{\rm c}$ drastically, whereas c-axis extension, which
increases ρ_(c) , enhances $T_{\rm c}$ from 38 K at ambient pressure to
51.6 K at 8 GPa. We find that the variation of $T_{\rm c}$ scales as a
function of ρ_(c) , and that the c-axis pressure coefficient is much
stronger than the ab-axis one. These findings imply that $T_{\rm c}$
depends primarily on the interlayer, rather than the in-plane, lattice
parameter.

Although a large number of experimental and theoretical investigations
indicate that strong two dimensionality of the normal state is one of
key factors in high-$T_{\rm c}$ superconductivity,[1, 2, 3] it remains
to be critically examined whether the cuprates are essentially
two-dimensional (2D) metals or three-dimensional (3D) metals with strong
anisotropy. Strong two dimensionality in the cuprates is after expressed
in exotic behavior of the out-of-plane resistivity ρ_(c) , e.g., a low-T
upturn in ρ_(c)(T) for underdoped high-$T_{\rm c}$ cuprates.[4, 5, 6, 7]
Interlayer coupling, as reflected in ρ_(c) , is strongly related to the
2D-electronic state.

Low dimensionality is generally known as a destructive factor for
long-range order such as superconductivity. Moreover, a theoretical
model for high-$T_{\rm c}$ cuprates[8] indicates that $T_{\rm c}$
enhancement is caused not only by strong in-plane correlation but also
by increase of interlayer coupling. This suggests that a strongly 2D
electronic state, _i.e._, weak interlayer coupling, should weaken
high-$T_{\rm c}$ superconductivity. In this paper, we explore how the
two dimensionality in the electronic state is reflected in $T_{\rm c}$ .

Pressure P experiments on high-$T_{\rm c}$ cuprates have received much
attention as a technique which can control the two dimensionality or the
lattice parameters which govern $T_{\rm c}$. In many high-$T_{\rm c}$
cuprates, however, it is difficult to clarify the effect of the
interlayer hopping transfer t_(c) on $T_{\rm c}$ , because $T_{\rm c}$
is usually governed by a change of carrier concentration caused by
applying P.[9] In contrast, La2-xSrCuO4 (LSCO) is a suitable system to
investigate this question because the carrier number depends only weakly
on P.[10, 11] In LSCO, indeed, the P dependence of ρ_(c) , which is much
stronger than that of the in-plane resistivity ρ_(ab) , is interpreted
in terms of a change of interlayer distance.[7] In this work, we have
investigated the P dependence of ρ_(c) for LSCO in order to understand
the role of the two dimensionality in the superconductivity.

The presence of a structural transition from tetragonal to orthorhombic
at $T_{\rm d}$ prevents us from observing the generic behavior of
ρ_(c)(T) and $T_{\rm c}$ in LSCO with x<0.2. For instance, a change of
slope is clearly observed in the ρ_(c)(T) at $T_{\rm d}$.[12] Moreover,
$T_{\rm c}$ in LSCO is suppressed by the orthorhombicity.[13] It has
been reported that $T_{\rm d}$ in LSCO can be suppressed by applying
high P.[14, 15] Therefore we have focused on a high-P experiment on LSCO
to determine the relationship between ρ_(c)(T) and $T_{\rm c}$
regardless of the influence of the structural transition.

According to uniaxial P (Ref. [16]) and ultrasonic[17] measurements on
high-$T_{\rm c}$ cuprates, the P dependence of $T_{\rm c}$ is
characterized by strong anisotropy. For LSCO, not only the absolute
value but also the sign of $dT_{\rm c}/dP$ depends strongly on the
direction of the applied P regardless of a change of carrier
concentration ($dT_{\rm c}/dP|_{ab}$>0 and $dT_{\rm c}/dP|_{c}$<0).[18]
Thus it is necessary to clarify the uniaxial P dependence of $T_{\rm c}$
because the effect of hydrostatic P is given by the sum of the uniaxial
P coefficients for each axis ($dT_{\rm c}/dP$= 2
$\times dT_{\rm c}/dP|_{ab}$+$dT_{\rm c}/dP|_{c}$).

Our P experiments were performed by using a cubic-anvil device[19] with
a mixture of Fluorinert FC70 and FC77 as P-transmitting medium. The
samples were put into a cylindrical Teflon cell with an inner space of
1.5-mm diameter and 1.5-mm length, and the current was applied parallel
to the cylindrical axis of the cell. Vitrification of the fluid medium
at low T often causes a slight deviation from hydrostaticity, though the
applied P is completely hydrostatic while the P medium remains fluid.
Pressure applied to the anvil unit was held constant within 3

Nonhydrostatic P is generally a hindrance in understanding the P
dependence of $T_{\rm c}$ . However, if we can determine the anisotropy
of the applied P, it is possible to determine the intrinsic behavior of
$T_{\rm c}$ even when P is high enough suppress the structural change.
In spite of the deviation from hydrostaticity, P dependence of
$T_{\rm c}$ is given by

$$T_{\rm c}(P)\!=\!T_{\rm c}(0)+2\,P_{\parallel ab}\frac{dT_{\rm c}}{dP_{ \parallel ab}}+P_{\parallel c}\frac{dT_{\rm c}}{dP_{\parallel c}}.$$
(1)

Moreover, the uniaxial P derivatives have been reported for the zero P
limit.[17] Therefore we can determine the anisotropy in the P acting on
the sample by comparing the observed $T_{\rm c}(P)$ with
$dT_{\rm c}/dP|_{ab}$ and $dT_{\rm c}/dP|_{\rm c}$ .

Single crystals of LSCO were grown by a traveling-solvent floating-zone
method. The Sr concentrations used in this work are x = 0.1 and 0.15, as
determined by electron-probe microanalysis. Out-of-plane resistivity was
measured by a four-probe method under P up to 8 GPa for a "stick"-shaped
sample with dimensions of L₁₁₀×L₁₁₀×$L_{\rm{001}}$= 0.2 × 0.25×0.73 mm³
(x = 0.1) and "plate"-shaped samples with dimensions 0.4×0.4×0.06 mm³ (x
= 0.1) and 0.45 ×0.45×0.06 mm³ (x = 0.15). The electrodes were made of
gold paste with a post-heat treatment. We verified that the applied P
did not damage the sample by checking that the ρ_(c)(T) curves under the
ambient P before and after the P measurement agreed well with each
other.

For stick shaped LSCO with x = 0.1, we measured the P and T dependence
of ρ_(c). Some interesting features were found in the P dependence of
the ρ_(c)(T) curve in the vicinity of $T_{\rm c}$ as is shown in Fig. 1,
while ρ_(c) at 300 K monotonically decreases with P as shown in the
inset. By applying _P_≤3 GPa, the maximum value of ρ_(c)(T) just above
$T_{\rm c}$ is drastically reduced, though $T_{\rm c}$ changes weakly.
On the other hand, by applying _P_≥3 GPa the maximum value of ρ_(c)(T)
is almost constant though $T_{\rm c}$ is strongly suppressed. The
feature at around 3 GPa is probably due to the structural change from
the orthorhombic to the tetragonal phase. According to the reported P
measurements,[14, 15] the observed $T_{\rm d}$∼270 K can be suppressed
by _P_≥3 GPa. Indeed, a change in the slope of the ρ_(c)(T) curve, which
is clear at around $T_{\rm d}$∼ 270 K under ambient P, is completely
suppressed by applying _P_≥3 GPa. Therefore we focus on measurements of
ρ_(c)(T) under _P_≥3 GPa in order to address the intrinsic variation of
ρ_(c) and $T_{\rm c}$ independent of the structural transitions.
Incidentally, we note that a deviation from hydrostaticity is not so
large in this measurement judging from the observed P dependence of
$T_{\rm d}$.

For the plate shaped LSCO sample with x = 0.1 and 0.15, the P and T
dependence of ρ_(c) was also measured. P dependence of ρ_(c)(T) for the
plate sample with x = 0.15 is representatively shown in Fig. 2. The P
dependence for the plate sample is different from that for the stick
sample. In particular, increasing ρ_(c) is induced by applying _P_≥0.8
GPa at 297 K as shown in the inset. Moreover, the P dependence of the
interlayer distance is sensitively reflected in ρ_(c) in LSCO;[20, 22]
namely, ρ_(c)(P) can be regarded as a strain gauge along the c axis.
Therefore, we deduce that the c axis is stretched by applying P in this
measurement. These results obviously indicate that the stress on the
plate sample is strongly anisotropic.

We can infer the reason why the stress on the plate sample is strongly
anisotropic even though the sample is not in direct contact with the
Teflon cell. It is empirically known that the Fluorinert mixture is
jelled by applying _P_≥1 GPa at around 300 K. The jelled mixture, which
has a much larger compressibility than the sample, acts as a cushion.
Hence subindyrostatic conditions would be achieved if the sample were
embedded in a large volume of mixture. However, a deviation from
hydrostatic P is likely caused by the strongly anisotropic distribution
of the jelled mixture, though the displacement of six anvil tops was
isotropic. In the P cell, the c axis of the plate sample was arranged
parallel to the cylindrical axis of the cell. Comparing the sample size
with the inner diameter of the cell, we can see that the clearance
between the inner wall of the cell and the sample is much narrower than
the space along the _c_-axis direction. Pressure transmission is
strongly anisotropic because the jelled mixture shows poor fluidity and
the cell geometry is anisotropic. In the plate sample measurement, the
in-plane compression must be much stronger than the interlayer one; thus
the _c_-axis stretch is caused by a large contribution from Poisson’s
ratio.

Figure 3 provides a plot of $T_{\rm c}$ determined by zero resistivity
against P for the stick-shaped sample (x = 0.1) and plate ones (x = 0.1
and 0.15). Both the stick and plate sample with x = 0.1 show a change of
slopes in $T_{\rm c}(P)$ at around $P_{\rm d}$∼3 GPa. Then, $T_{\rm c}$
changes linearly with P in the orthorhombic phase. We found a
significant difference between P dependence of $T_{\rm c}$ for the stick
and plate samples. For the stick sample, $T_{\rm c}$ decreases at a rate
of $dT_{\rm c}/dP$∼ − 0.8 K/GPa for _P_≤3 GPa, and $T_{\rm c}$ for _P_≥3
GPa is more strongly suppressed with a rate of $dT_{\rm c}/dP$∼ -3
K/GPa. By contrast, $T_{\rm c}$ for the plate sample increases with a
rate of $dT_{\rm c}/dP$∼ +3 K/GPa for _P_≤3 GPa and $dT_{\rm c}/dP$∼
+0.6 K/GPa under _P_≥3 GPa. The plate sample with x = 0.15 shows
$T_{\rm c}$ enhancement from 38 K at ambient

Figure 2: ρ_(c)(T) curves measured for the plate-shaped LSCO sample with
x = 0.15 under P up to 8 GPa. The inset shows P dependence of ρ_(c) at
297 K. Also shown is a schematic representation of the electrodes
attached to the plate-shaped crystals.

Figure 1: ρ_(c)(T) curves measured for stick-shaped LSCO sample with x =
0.1 below 55 K under P up to 8 GPa. The inset shows P dependence of
ρ_(c) at 300 K. The sample shape and the configurations of the
electrodes are shown.

to 51.6 K at 8 GPa with a rate of $dT_{\rm c}/dP$∼ + 5 K/GPa under P≤1.5
GPa and $dT_{\rm c}/dP$∼ + 1.5 K/GPa for P≈ 1.5 GPa. The maximum
$T_{\rm c}$=51.6 K is the highest recorded so far for LSCO.

We have attempted to quantify the nonhydrostaticity at low T in order to
clarify these results. It is reported that the uniaxial-P derivatives
obtained at around ambient P are $dT_{\rm c}/dP$_( ∥ ab)= + 3.2 K/GPa
and $dT_{\rm c}/dP$_( ∥ c)= − 6.6 K/GPa for x = 0.1 [17]. Comparing
these uniaxial-P derivatives with the observed $dT_{\rm c}/dP$ in the
orthorhombic phase, we estimated the anisotropy of applied P on the
stick and plate samples using Eq. (1). In the measurement for the stick
sample with x = 0.1, we obtained the anisotropic P ratio to be
P_( ∥ c)/P_( ∥ ab)∼ 1.1. By contrast, the P_( ∥ c)/P_( ∥ ab) values for
the plate samples with x = 0.1 and 0.15 are about 0.6 and 0.5,
respectively. Thus the above-mentioned inference is probably confirmed
by this estimation. Incidentally, the c-axis stretch for the plate
samples is also indicated by comparing P_( ∥ c)/P_( ∥ ab) with
compressibility [21] and Poisson’s ratio, [22] as is indicated by
increasing ρ_(c) .

Next, we consider the intrinsic P dependence of $T_{\rm c}$ in the
tetragonal phase. Assuming that the anisotropic P ratio in the
orthorhombic phase is retained in the P-induced tetragonal one, we
estimated the uniaxial-P derivatives in the tetragonal phase to be
$dT_{\rm c}/dP$_( ∥ c) = − 8 ± 1 K/GPa and
$dT_{\rm c}/dP$_( ∥ ab)= + 3 ± 0.5 K/GPa from Eq. (1). Equally, we
obtained the uniaxial-P derivatives for x = 0.15 to be
$dT_{\rm c}/dP$_( ∥ c) = − 9 ± 1 K/GPa and
$dT_{\rm c}/dP$_( ∥ ab) = + 3.5 ± 0.5 K/GPa utilizing the previously
reported P dependence of $T_{\rm c}$. [7] Though $dT_{\rm c}/dP$_( ∥ ab)
remains nearly constant regardless of the structural change,
$dT_{\rm c}/dP$_( ∥ c) in the tetragonal phase is much stronger than
that in the orthorhombic phase. Incidentally, from a sum of these
uniaxial P derivatives we obtained a hydrostatic P derivative in the
P-induced tetragonal phase to be $dT_{\rm c}/dP$∼ − 1 K/GPa for optimal
doping. This estimation agrees well with the reported value of
$dT_{\rm c}/dP$= − 1 K/GPa for polycrystalline LSCO with x = 0.15 under
hydrostatic P up to 8 GPa. [23, 24] Therefore it is a reasonable
assumption that the anisotropic P ratio is retained in the high-P range.

What we are mainly interested in now is why the absolute value of
$dT_{\rm c}/dP$_( ∥ c) is much stronger than that of
$dT_{\rm c}/dP$_( ∥ ab) . In the tetragonal phase, the enhancement of
$T_{\rm c}$ due to interlayer expansion is about 2.6 times stronger than
that due to in-plane compression. Naturally, the $dT_{\rm c}/dP$_( ∥ ab)
value is too small to account for the observed P dependence of
$T_{\rm c}$. As shown in Fig. 4, the variations of $T_{\rm c}$ obtained
for both stick- and plate-shaped samples could be scaled linearly with
ρ_(c)  at 297 K. Additionally, the P dependence of ρ_(c)  can be
expressed as a function of the lattice parameter c. [7, 20] Therefore
$T_{\rm c}$ is much more strongly reflected in the interlayer distance
than the in-plane one. Thus a change of $T_{\rm c}$ is mainly
interpreted in terms of the interlayer coupling as monitored in ρ_(c) .

Incidentally ρ_(c)  is given by ρ_(c) ∼[N|t_(c)|²τ]⁻¹, where N is
carrier number, and τ is lifetime in the plane. [4] In general, P
dependence of N and τ is reflected in those of the residual resistivity
and the slope of ρ_(ab)(T), respectively. [25] Recently, we have
reported that anisotropic pressure does not change ρ_(ab) below about 60
K. [13, 20] Moreover, weak P dependence of N has been reported. [10, 11]
Therefore we deduce that τ and N for LSCO are almost independent of P at
low T; thus P dependence of ρ_(c)  for LSCO is mainly governed by that
of $t_{\rm c}\,$.

As a clue to understanding the relation between $T_{\rm c}$ and
interlayer coupling t_(c) , we focus on the low-T behavior of ρ_(c)  in
the tetragonal phase when the c-axis compression is stronger than the
in-plane one. Although the P reduces ρ_(c)  values over the whole T
range, the peak value of ρ_(c)(T) just above $T_{\rm c}$ is almost
independent of P as shown in Fig. 1. This observation suggests that
superconductivity occurs when t_(c) reaches some critical value. Thus
higher $T_{\rm c}$ values can be expected in the system which has
strongly suppressed t_(c) .

We infer why a strongly 2D electronic state is an advantageous factor
for the superconductivity in LSCO against the expectations from the
theoretical model. T dependence of ρ_(c) and ρ_(ab) indicate that the
interlayer coupling is suppressed with decreasing T. It seems that the
perfectly 2D metal expected from the spin-charge separation model is
achieved at absolute zero Kelvin when superconductivity is absent.

Figure 4: The variation of $T_{\rm c}(P)/T_{\rm c}$ (0.1 MPa) in the
tetragonal phase plotted as a function of ρ_(c)(P)/P_(c) (0.1 MPa) at
297 K. Circles and triangles indicate $T_{\rm c}$ for plate- and
stick-shaped samples, respectively. $T_{\rm c}$ for the stick LSCO with
optimal doping (closed triangle) is obtained from Refs. [7] and [13].

Figure 3: $T_{\rm c}$ for stick- and plate-shaped samples against P. The
solid line is a guide to the eye. Meshed marks indicate the structural
transition pressure $P_{\rm d}\,$estimated from the changes in ρ_(c)(T)
and the reported $T_{\rm d}(P)\,$ (Refs. [14] and [15]).

However, it is believed that the perfectly 2D metal is unstable at low
T. Moreover, it has been reported that not only ρ_(c) but also ρ_(ab)
shows a logarithmic upturn when $T_{\rm c}$ is suppressed by a large
magnetic field.[5] Therefore superconductivity or a 3D localized
electronic state is likely required at low T in order to depress the
instability. Thus enhancing the instability, which is caused by the
c-axis expansion, increases $T_{\rm c}$.

In conclusion, we have demonstrated that strong 2D structure of the
electronic state as is monitored in ρ_(c) is a key parameter for
high-$T_{\rm c}$ superconductivity, though low dimensionality is
generally known as a destructive factor for conventional
superconductivity. The remarkable thing is that $T_{\rm c}$ is strongly
reflected in interlayer distance rather than in-plane one. Indeed, the
enhancement of $T_{\rm c}$ in LSCO, which reaches 51.6 K at 8 GPa, is
mainly interpreted in terms of interlayer expansion, which enhances two
dimensionality. Therefore we expect that measurement under anisotropy
controlled pressures causes much higher $T_{\rm c}$ than previously
reported values for many high-$T_{\rm c}$ materials.

We would like to thank S. R. Julian for criticizing the manuscript. This
work was supported by a Grant-in-Aid for Scientific Research on Priority
Areas, from the Ministry of Education, Science, Sports and Culture of
Japan, and a grant from NEDO.

## References

* [1] P.W. Anderson _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **60**, 132 (1988). * [2]
P.B. Littlewood _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **45**, 12 636 (1992). * [3] H.
Fukuyama _et al._, J. Low Temp. Phys. **95**, 309 (1994). * [4] N.P.
Ong, Physica C **235-240**, 221 (1994). * [5] Y. Ando _et al._, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **75**, 4662 (1995). * [6] N.E. Hussey _et al._, Phys. Rev. B
**58**, R611 (1998). * [7] F. Nakamura _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **54**, 10
061 (1996). * [8] J.M. Wheatley _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **37**, 5897
(1988). * [9] For example, H. Takahashi and N. Mori, _Study of High
Temperature Superconductors_ (Nova Science Publishers, Inc., Commack,
New York, 1996), Vol. 16, p. 1. * [10] C. Murayama _et al._, Physica C
**183**, 277 (1991). * [11] G.Q. Zheng, _et al._ Physica C **243**, 337
(1995). * [12] Y. Nakamura _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **47**, 8369 (1993). *
[13] T. Goko _et al._, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **68**, 3074 (1999). * [14] S.
Nakayama _et al._, Physica C **235-240**, 1283 (1994). * [15] H.J. Kim
and R. Moret, Physica C **156**, 363 (1988). * [16] M. Braden _et al._,
Phys. Rev. B **47**, 12 288 (1993). * [17] M. Nohara _et al._, Phys.
Rev. B **52**, 570 (1995). * [18] We use the value $dT_{\rm c}/dP|_{ab}$
which is the average of $dT_{\rm c}/dP|_{ab}$ and $dT_{\rm c}/dP|_{ab}$
because LSCO spontaneously forms a twinned structure below
$T_{\rm d}$. * [19] N. Mori _et al._, Jpn. J. Appl. Phys., Suppl. **8**,
182 (1993). * [20] F. Nakamura _et al._, Physica C **317-318**, 358
(1999). * [21] G. Oomi _et al._, Physica C **185-189**, 889 (1991). *
[22] We use a Poissons ratio ∼ 0.3 obtained from our uniaxial-P
experiment for LSCO with x = 0.15. * [23] N. Yamada and M. Ido, Physica
C **203**, 240 (1992). * [24] N. Mori _et al._, Physica C **185-189**,
40 (1991). * [25] T.M. Rice _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **5**, 4350 (1972).
