Probing superconducting anisotropy of single crystal KCa₂Fe₄As₄F₂ by
magnetic torque measurements

A. B. Yu,^(1, 3, 4) T. Wang,^(1, 3) Y. F. Wu,^(1, 3, 4) Z. Huang,^(1, 3)
H. Xiao,² G. Mu,^(1, 3) and T. Hu^(⊕1, 3,)

¹State Key Laboratory of Functional Materials for Informatics, Shanghai
Institute of Microsystem and Information Technology, Chinese Academy of
Sciences, Shanghai 200050,China

²Center for High Pressure Science and Technology Advanced Research,
Beijing 100094, China

³CAS Center for Excellence in Superconducting Electronics (CENSE),
Shanghai 200050, China

⁴University of Chinese Academy of Science, Beijing 100049, China

###### Abstract

Anisotropy is the key to understanding iron-based superconductors, which
usually have quasi-two-dimensional layered structures. By using torque
measurements (a sensitive tool to detect the magnetic anisotropy), we
investigate the superconducting anisotropy of the KCa₂Fe₄As₄F₂ (12442,
T_(c) = 33 K) single crystal. In the normal state, the torque data
display a paramagnetic behavior H²sin 2θ in different applied magnetic
fields H aligned at an angle θ to the c axis of the crystal, while in
the mixed state vortex torque dominates the torque signal. The
anisotropy parameter γ and London penetration depth λ were obtained from
vortex torque analyzed using Kogan’s formula. It was found that γ is
16.2 at T = 25 K (≈0.76 T_(c)), close to γ≈ 15 at T≈ 0.76 T_(c) for
CaFe_(0.88)Co_(0.12)AsF, but much larger than the result of 11 and 122
families, where γ is around 3. In addition, the obtained perpetration
depth from the torque measurements is consistent with the results of μSR
measurements of KCa₂Fe₄As₄F₂. Our results suggest that the
two-dimensionality plays a vital role in the superconductivity of the
12442-type iron-based superconductor.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.100.144505

## I Introduction

The recently discovered 12442-type iron-based superconductors (FeSCs)
AB₂Fe₄As₄C₂ (A = K, Rb, Cs; B = Ca, Nd, Sm, Gd, Tb, Dy, Ho; C = F, O)
[1, 2, 3, 4, 5] where T_(c) = 28-37 K have attracted a lot of interest.
The 12442 system has a superstructure composed of 1111-type and 122-type
FeSCs resembling the cuprate superconductors with double CuO₂ sheets
[6]. This family exhibits an intrinsic hole conduction superconductivity
and a dome-shaped superconducting phase [7], suggesting unconventional
superconductivity [8]. Previous investigations showed the 12442 family
has a significantly large anisotropy in both the normal and the
superconducting state [6]. This kind of strongly anisotropic behavior is
reminiscent of those of most cuprate superconductors, which makes the
12442 family different from the commonly known FeSCs with relatively
small anisotropy [9]. First-principles studies suggest that the special
crystal structure yields the two-dimensional electronic structure with
six hole-type cylindrical Fermi-surface sheets and four electron-type
ones, and consequently the large anisotropy [8, 10, 11].

In an anisotropic magnetic system, the vector quantities, like applied
magnetic field H⃗ and magnetization m⃗, are no longer collinear unless
they lie along the principal axis. Thus the magnetic torque τ⃗ = m⃗ × H⃗ is
sensitive to the magnetic anisotropy. According to the anisotropic
Ginzburg-Landau (GL) theory, the superconducting anisotropy parameter γ
can be determined by the vortex torque, where
$\gamma=\sqrt{m_{c}^{*}/m_{a}^{*}}=H_{c2}^{|c}/H_{c2}^{|a}=\lambda_{c}/\lambda_{ a}=\xi_{a}/\xi_{c}$
where a and c are directions along the crystal axes, m^(*) is the
effective mass, H_(c2) is the upper critical field, λ is the penetration
depth, and ξ is the coherence length [12]. Kogan’s model derived from
the anisotropic GL theory was wildly applied to study vortex torque. By
analyzing vortex torque with Kogan’s formula [13], one can obtain not
only the γ but also the superconducting London penetration depth λ that
can identify the ability of a superconductor to screen an applied field
by the diamagnetic response of the superconducting condensate [14].

In this paper, detailed angular dependent torque measurements were
performed on KCa₂Fe₄As₄F₂ single crystal in both normal and
superconducting states. A large paramagnetic torque signal is observed
in the normal state, while vortex torque is found at temperatures below
T_(c). The temperature and magnetic field dependent anisotropy parameter
γ and the in-plane penetration depth λ_(ab) are obtained by fitting the
reversible torque curves τ_(rev)(θ) in the mixed state with the Kogan
model. It is found that KCa₂Fe₄As₄F₂ has almost the same anisotropy as
the 1111 families but is more anisotropic than 11 and 122 families. In
addition, the obtained superconductor penetration depth λ_(ab) from
torque measurements agrees with μSR measurements.

## II Experiment

A high-quality single crystal of KCa₂Fe₄As₄F₂ was grown using the
self-flux method with KAs as the flux. The details on sample growth and
other information can be found elsewhere [6]. Magnetization measurements
were performed by using the Quantum Design superconducting quantum
interference device. The angular (θ) dependent torque measurements were
carried out using a piezoresistive torque magnetometer in the physical
property measurement system. We define the angle between the c axis of
the sample and magnetic field as θ. The increasing angle torque
(τ_(inc)) and the decreasing angle torque (τ_(dec)) were measured at a
temperature range of 25 ≤ T ≤ 150 K and the applied magnetic field range
0.5 ≤ H ≤ 9 T.

## III. Discussion

Figure 1(a) shows the temperature (T) dependent field cooled (FC) and
zero-field cooled (ZFC) magnetization (m) curves measured at magnetic
field H of 2 Oe applied along the c axis of the crystal. It is shown
that the ZFC magnetization (m_(ZFC)) decreases suddenly at 33 K while
the FC susceptibility (m_(FC)) keeps constant as it cools down. The
decrease of m_(ZFC) at 33 K is due to the presence of a superconducting
transition of KCa₂Fe₄As₄F₂ and the constant m_(FC) suggests a strong
vortex pinning effect as observed usually in iron-based superconductors
[15].

The inset to Fig. 1(b) shows the typical angular θ dependent torque τ(θ)
curves in the normal state. It is found that τ(θ) (the green solid) is
fitted well with the equation of Asin 2θ (the red curve). Thus the
torque measured at 45^(∘) [τ(θ = 45^(∘))] represents A, the amplitude of
torque in the normal state. The main plot of Fig. 1(b) shows the
temperature-dependent τ(θ = 45^(∘)) measured above and below T_(c) = 33
K and at the magnetic field H = 9 T. It is found that τ(θ = 45^(∘))
decreases slowly as it cools down but drops suddenly around temperature
T = 33 K. The drop of τ(θ = 45^(∘)) at T = 33 K is due to the presence
of vortex torque, which will be addressed in the following discussion.

Figure 1(c) displays the magnetic field H dependence of A measured at 37
K above T_(c) = 33 K. The parameter A exhibits a linear relationship
with H², suggesting the paramagnetic torque in the normal state, which
is derived as below. First, the torque of the material with magnetic
moment M under magnetic field H can be written

τ⃗ = M⃗ × H⃗.
(1)

In this equation, M⃗ can be decomposed into a parallel component M_(∥)
and a perpendicular component M_(⊥) to the sample’s _ab_ plane on the
basis of parallelogram law. Equation (1) can exchange into

τ⃗ = (M_(⊥)Hsin θ − M_(∥)Hcos θ)k̂.
(2)

As we know, under low magnetic field,

M_(∥) = χ_(a)H_(∥) = χ_(a)Hsin θ

and

M_(⊥) = χ_(c)H_(⊥) = χ_(c)Hcos θ,

where χ_(a) and χ_(c) are the susceptibilities along the a and c axes
[16, 17]. Finally, we obtain the concrete form of the torque:

$$\tau=\frac{\chi_{c}-\chi_{a}}{2}H^{2}\sin 2\theta.$$
(3)

Since A is proportional to H², it can be written as

A = C(T)H²,
(4)

where C is a fitting parameter with temperature dependence. Combining
τ = Asin 2θ and Eq. (4),

τ = Asin 2θ = C(T)H²sin 2θ.
(5)

From Eqs. (3) and (5), one can easily observe the value of
$C=\frac{\chi_{c}-\chi_{a}}{2}$. Thus, this linear behavior shows the
anisotropy of magnetic moments in two directions of the sample. For
FeSCs, the χ_(a) is bigger than χ_(c) so the A is negative [18, 19],
which is different from the heavy fermion superconductor CeCoIn₅[20] and
the cuprate superconductor Bi₂Sr_(2 − x)La_(x)CuO_(6 + δ)[21], where
χ_(c) is bigger than χ_(a).

Figure 2(a) shows the angular dependent torque measured with increasing
angle τ_(inc) and decreasing angle τ_(dec) at the

Figure 1.: (a) Single-crystal KCa₂Fe₄As₄F₂’s magnetization data at H = 2
Oe under field cooled (FC) and zero-field cooled (ZFC) conditions. (b)
The τ(θ = 45^(∘)) dependent temperature above and below T_(c) for H = 9
T. Inset: Angular θ dependent torque τ data (open circle) measured at
temperature T = 37 K with a magnetic field H = 9 T and fitting result
(red line) by Asin 2θ. (c) A vs H² at T = 37 K.

temperature 29 K and magnetic field 5 T in the mixed state. Noted that a
large torque hysteresis loop occurs at around 90deg. Such a behavior is
due to the intrinsic pinning [22] induced by the layered structure of
KCa2Fe4As4F2. The reversible component of the torque τ_(rev) (the blue
line) can be obtained by averaging the τ_(inc) and τ_(dec) as
τ_(rev) = (τ_(inc) + τ_(dec))/2.

Figure 2(b) shows τ_(rev) measured at T = 29 K and different applied
magnetic fields. Note that the contribution of paramagnetism to the
torque (sin 2θ) in the normal state is too large to be neglected in the
mixed state at least near to T_(c) as shown in Fig. 1(b). Obviously,
with the increasing of magnetic field the proportion of sin 2θ is more
evident. The τ_(rev) in Fig. 2(b) (open circles) is therefore fitted by
the following equation:

$$\tau_{\text{rev}}(\theta)=a\sin 2\theta+\frac{\phi_{0}HV}{16\pi\mu_{0}\lambda_{ ab}^{2}}\frac{\gamma^{2}-1}{\gamma}\frac{\sin 2\theta}{\epsilon(\theta)}\ln\left\{\frac{\gamma\eta H_{c}^{|c|}}{H\epsilon(\theta)}\right\}.$$
(6)

In this equation, asin 2θ is the paramagnetic contribution to τ_(rev)
and the second term is the vortex torque which is given by Kogan’s model
[13], where V is the volume of the single crystal, λ_(ab) is the
penetration depth in the ab plane, $\gamma=\sqrt{m_{c}/m_{a}}$ is the
anisotropy parameter which is determined according to Ginzburg-Landau
theory,
$\epsilon(\theta)=\sqrt{\sin^{2}\theta}+\gamma^{2}\cos^{2}\theta$, η is
a numerical parameter of the order of unity, and H_(c2)^(|c|) is the
upper critical field along the c axis. We define
$B=\frac{\phi_{0}HV}{16\pi\mu_{0}\lambda_{ab}^{2}}$. Note that in
Kogan’s formula the vortex torque indeed has a negative value at 45deg,
which thus induces an abrupt decrease at T_(c) as shown in Fig. 1(c). In
order to acquire the anisotropy parameter γ, the torque data can be
fitted by Eq. (6) with fitting parameters a, B, and γ. The solid lines
in Fig. 2(b) display the fitting results.

Figures 3(a) and 3(b) display the magnetic field dependence of
anisotropy parameter γ at 29 K and temperature dependence at 9 T. It
shows that γ has a weak temperature and magnetic field dependent
behavior. The larger error bars of γ are found at lower temperature and
lower field as shown in Figs. 3(a) and 3(b), which is caused by the
torque signal that is more scattered at lower magnetic field and more
irreversible at lower temperature. It is worth noting that in spite of
the same value at around T_(c) the temperature-dependent γ here from
torque measurements is not consistent with the upper critical field
anisotropy parameter γ_(Hc2) by resistivity measurements, which
decreases with increasing temperature in the superconducting state as
shown in Fig. 3(b) [23]. Such a difference was also observed previously
and believed to be related to the multiband structure of iron-based
superconductors [24]. H_(c2) is usually determined by the
superconducting gap. In particular, for an anisotropic multiband
superconductor, the mixed two- and three-dimensional superconducting
gaps located at different Fermi surfaces govern H_(c2). On the other
hand, the penetration depth is determined by the whole Fermi surface.
Thus the multiband structure might cause a different behavior

Figure 3: (a) The magnetic field H dependence of anisotropy parameter γ
at temperature T = 29 K. (b) Temperature dependence of γ_(c) from torque
measurements (black points) and γ_(Hc2) obtained from resistivity
measurements by Wang _et al._[23] (red points).

Figure 2: Torque data measured at T = 29 K. (a) The typical angular θ
dependent torque data in the mixed sate. The arrows show the torque
measured with increasing angle τ_(inc) and decreasing angle τ_(dec). The
reversible part of the torque data τ_(rev)(blue line) is obtained from
the average of τ_(inc) and τ_(dec). (b) τ_(rev) (empty circles) and
fitting curves (solid lines) by Eq. (6) for H = 1, 3, 5, 7, and 9 T.

of γ_(λ) and γ_(Hc2)[25]. It is found that, at T = 25 K (≈0.76 T_(c)), γ
= 16.2, which is close to the result of CaFe_(0.88)Co_(0.12)AsF, γ≈ 15
at T≈ 0.76 T_(c)) [19]. However, comparing with the 11 and 122 families
[26], where γ is around 3, the 12442 family is more anisotropic in the
superconducting state. This may suggest that the electronic coupling
between layers in the 12442 family is weaker than in the 11 and 122
families in the superconducting state.

Figure 4(a) shows the curve of the magnetic field dependence of the
parameter $B=\frac{\Phi_{0}H\gamma}{16\pi\mu_{0}\lambda_{ab}^{2}}$. It
is found that B displays a linear H dependent behavior. Thus, the
in-plane penetration depth λ_(ab) is a field H independent constant.
This behavior is similar to the result of CeCoIn₅, the B of which shows
linear behavior at low field [20]. The black points in Fig. 4(b) show
temperature dependence of λ_(ab)⁻² with magnetic field H = 9 T. The red
lines show the results of μSR measured on a polycrystalline sample at H
= 0 T [27]. It is found that the black points are a little smaller than
the red points. The shift is due to the different applied magnetic
fields for the torque and μSR measurements on λ_(ab)⁻², which is usually
suppressed by the magnetic field [28]. Thus these two results are
consistent.

## IV Conclusion

In summary, detailed angular dependent torque measurements were
performed on KCa₂Fe₄As₄F₂. The paramagnetism is found to govern the
torque signal in the normal state. We get the anisotropy parameter γ at
different temperatures and magnetic fields in the mixed state through
fitting the data with Kogan’s model. The value of γ is similar to the
1111 family but larger than 11 and 122 families. The penetration depth
of KCa₂Fe₄As₄F₂ at temperatures below T_(c) is comparable with the
results of μSR measured on polycrystalline samples.

## Acknowledgments

The authors acknowledge the support of National Natural Science
Foundation of China Grant No. 11574338, National Natural Science
Foundation of China - China Academy of Engineering Physics NSAF Joint
Fund Grant No. U1530402, and Chinese Academy of Sciences State Key
Laboratory of Functional Materials for Informatics.

## References

* [1] Z. Wang, C. He, S. Wu, Z. Tang, Y. Liu, A. Ablimit, C. Feng, and
G. Cao, J. Am. Chem. Soc. **138**, 7856 (2016). * [2] Z. Wang, C. He, Z.
Tang, S. Wu, and G. Cao, Sci. Chin. Mater. **60**, 83 (2017). * [3] Z.
C. Wang, C. Y. He, S. Q. Wu, Z. T. Tang, Y. Liu, A. Ablimit, Q. Tao, C.
M. Feng, Z. A. Xu, and G. H. Cao, J. Phys. Condens. Matter **29**,
111701 (2017). * [4] Z. Wang, C. He, S. Wu, Z. Tang, Y. Liu, and G. Cao,
Chem. Mater. **29**, 1805 (2017). * [5] S. Q. Wu, Z. C. Wang, C. Y. He,
Z. T. Tang, Y. Liu, and G. H. Cao, Phys. Rev. Mater. **1**, 044804
(2017). * [6] T. Wang, J. Chu, H. Jin, J. Feng, L. Wang, Y. Song, C.
Zhang, X. Xu, W. Li, Z. Li, T. Hu, D. Jiang, W. Peng, X. Liu, and G. Mu,
J. Phys. Chem. C **123**, 13925 (2019). * [7] B. Wang, Z. C. Wang, K.
Ishigaki, K. Matsubayashi, T. Eto, J. Sun, J. G. Cheng, G. H. Cao, and
Y. Uwatoko, Phys. Rev. B **99**, 014501 (2019). * [8] G. Wang, Z. Wang,
and X. Shi, EPL **116**, 37003 (2016). * [9] Z. C. Wang, Y. Liu, S. Q.
Wu, Y. T. Shao, Z. Ren, and G. H. Cao, Phys. Rev. B **99**, 144501
(2019). * [10] J. Ishida, S. Iimura, and H. Hosono, Phys. Rev. B **96**,
174522 (2017). * [11] Z. Wang, G. Wang, and X. Tian, J. Alloys Compd.
**708**, 392 (2017). * [12] M. Tinkham, _Introduction to
Superconductivity_ (Courier Corporation. Mineola, New York, 2004). *
[13] V. G. Kogan, Phys. Rev. B **38**, 7049 (1988). * [14] K. Hashimoto,
Y. Mizukami, R. Katsumata, H. Shishido, M. Yamashita, H. Ikeda, Y.
Matsuda, J. A. Schlueter, J. D. Fletcher, and A. Carrington, Proc. Natl.
Acad. Sci. USA **110**, 3293 (2013). * [15] Z. Shermadini, A.
Krzton-Maziopa, M. Bendele, R. Khasanov, H. Luetkens, K. Conder, E.
Pomjakushina, S. Weyeneth, V. Pomjakushin, O. Bossen _et al._, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **106**, 117602 (2011).

Figure 4: (a) The magnetic field H dependence of fitting parameter
$B=\frac{\Phi_{0}H\gamma}{16\pi\mu_{0}\lambda_{ab}^{2}}$ at temperature
T = 29 K. (b) The temperature T dependent of penetration depth λ_(ab)⁻²
(black points) under magnetic field H = 9 T and data of polycrystalline
KCa₂Fe₄As₄F₂ measured by μSR at zero field (red points).

* Kasahara _et al._ [2012]S. Kasahara, H. J. Shi, K. Hashimoto, S.
Tonegawa, Y. Mizukami, T. Shibauchi, K. Sugimoto, T. Fukuda, T.
Terashima, and A. H. Nevidomskyy, Nature (London) **486**, 382 (2012). *
Okazaki _et al._ [2011]R. Okazaki, T. Shibauchi, H. J. Shi, Y. Haga, T.
D. Matsuda, E. Yamamoto, Y. Onuki, H. Ikeda, and Y. Matsuda, Science
**331**, 439 (2011). * Sefat _et al._ [2008]A. S. Sefat, R. Jin, M. A.
McGuire, B. C. Sales, D. J. Singh, and D. Mandrus, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**101**, 117004 (2008). * Xiao _et al._ [2016]H. Xiao, B. Gao, Y. H, X.
J. Li, G. Mu, and T. Hu, J. Phys. Condens. Matter **28**, 325701
(2016). * Xiao _et al._ [2006]H. Xiao, T. Hu, C. C. Almasan, T. A.
Sayles, and M. B. Maple, Phys. Rev. B **73**, 184511 (2006). * Xiao
[2014]H. Xiao, Phys. Rev. B **90**, 214511 (2014). * Ishida _et al._
[1997]T. Ishida, K. Okuda, H. Asaoka, Y. Kazumata, K. Noda, and H.
Takei, Phys. Rev. B **56**, 11897 (1997). * Wang _et al._ [2012]T. Wang,
C. Zhang, L. Xu, J. Wang, S. Jiang, Z. Zhu, Z. Wang, J. Chu, J. Feng, L.
Wang, W. Li, T. Hu, X. Liu, and G. Mu, Sci. Chin. Phys. Mech. (to be
published). * Bendele _et al._ [2010]M. Bendele, S. Weyeneth, R.
Puzniaik, A. Maisuradze, E. Pomjakushina, K. Conder, V. Pomjakushin, H.
Luetkens, S. Katrych, A. Wisniewski, R. Khasanov, and H. Keller, Phys.
Rev. B **81**, 224520 (2010). * Kogan [2002]V. Kogan, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**89**, 237005 (2002). * Khasanov and Guguchia [2015]R. Khasanov and Z.
Guguchia, Supercond. Sci. Technol. **28**, 034003 (2015). * Bhattacharya
_et al._ [2018]A. Bhattacharya, D. Adroja, M. Smidman, and V. Anand,
Sci. Chin. Phys. Mech. **61**, 127402 (2018). * Khasanov _et al._
[2009]R. Khasanov, T. Kondo, S. Strassle, D. O. G. Heron, A. Kaminski,
H. Keller, S. L. Lee, and T. Takeuchi, Phys. Rev. B **79**, 180507(R)
(2009).
