# Chemical doping effect in the LaRu₃Si₂ superconductor with a kagome
lattice

Baoxuan Li, Sheng Li, and Hai-Hu Wen

hhwen@nju.edu.cn National Laboratory of Solid State Microstructures and
Department of Physics, Collaborative Innovation Center of Advanced
Microstructures, Nanjing University, Nanjing 210093, China

###### Abstract

LaRu₃Si₂ is a superconductor with a kagome lattice and transition
temperature of 7 K. By doping different rare-earth and transition-metal
elements on the La and Ru sites, the evolution of superconductivity has
been extensively investigated. It is found that, except for doping Fe to
Ru sites, all other dopants with rare-earth (Y, Lu, and Ce) or
transition metals (Ni, Cr, and Cu) seem to suppress superconducting
transition temperature in LaRu₃Si₂ very slowly. The quick suppression of
superconductivity by Fe doping can be described by the Abrikosov-Gorkov
relation. By fitting and analyzing the magnetic susceptibility data
under a high magnetic field with the Curie-Weiss law, we find that the
effective magnetic moments for Ni and Cr doped samples are very small,
indicating that these ions actually do not behave like strong magnetic
scattering centers as Fe ions do in the present environment. Our
experiments on systematically doped samples and related analysis
indicate that the superconducting gap in LaRu₃Si₂ has no sign change.

2016 7 June 20167 June of the Rietveld structural refinement using the
topas program. In general, it is clear that the main diffraction peaks
can be indexed well by a hexagonal cell structure with the P6/mmm space
group. In addition to the LaRu₃Si₂ phase, some weak peaks from impurity
can also be seen; they come from the 15

Figure 1: (a) Powder x-ray-diffraction patterns and the Rietveld
refinement profile of the LaRu₃Si₂ sample at room temperature. All main
diffraction peaks can be indexed well by the P6/mmm space group
(hexagonal structure) with a = 5.675 Å and c = 3.557 Å with the excess
Ru as the impurity phase. The ratio between LaRu₃Si₂ and the Ru impurity
is found to be 85.7:14.3. (b) X-ray-diffraction patterns for Ce doped
LaRu₃Si₂ samples. (c) X-ray-diffraction patterns for Cr doped and Ln
doped LaRu₃Si₂ samples. (d) X-ray-diffraction patterns for Ni doped
LaRu₃Si₂ samples. (e) The evolution of the a-axis lattice constants for
Ni- and Cr doped samples vs the doping concentration. (f) The evolution
of the c-axis lattice constants for Ni- and Cr-doped samples vs the
doping concentration.

sample, which is very close to the original proportion. The refined
lattice parameters are extracted to be a = 5.675A and c = 3.557A. In
Fig. 1(a), we also show the lattice structure of LaRu3Si2; apparently
the Ru atoms form a honeycomblike kagome lattice, which exhibits very
strong geometric frustration.

We also present the powder XRD patterns for all the doped LaRu3Si2
samples at room temperature in Figs. 1(b)-1(d). One can see that the
positions of the main peaks evolve systematically with increasing the
doping level. We have enlarged some peaks for Ce and Ni substitution
series in Fig. 1(c) and 1(d) to highlight this evolution. Apart from the
Cr doped samples, which have some peaks arising from La and Ru4Si3
impurities as marked in Fig. 1(b), other doped samples seem to be very
pure comparing with the LaRu3Si2 parent phase. The fitting lattice
constants of a and c axes in Cr and Ni doped samples are shown in Figs.
1(e) and 1(f), respectively. We find that the a and c lattice parameters
decrease monotonously upon doping Cr or Ni, which is understandable
since the radius of Cr or Ni ion is smaller than that of the Ru ion. The
systematic evolvements of the lattice constants indicate that the Cr or
Ni ion has already been doped into the kagome lattice.

In order to determine the real doping levels of the doped samples, we
also did scanning electron microscope measurements; some of the energy
dispersive x-ray microanalysis results for the doped LaRu3Si2 samples
are shown in Table 1. To ensure homogeneity, we have measured each
sample at three different positions marked as 1, 2, and 3 in Table 1,
and the actual doping level for one sample is obtained by averaging
these three values. We can see that the distribution of dopants in one
sample is relatively uniform, although the actual doping level is lower
than the nominal one.

Figure 2 shows the resistivity and dc susceptibility zero-field-cooled
and field-cooled measurements under 50 Oe for samples with doping from
LaRu3Si2 to CeRu3Si2; the latter is also a superconductor with T_(c)≈ 1
K [12]. Here we do not take the demagnetization factors into
consideration, so some of the magnetization expressed by 4_p_kh_z are
larger than 1 at low temperatures. The same is applied to the magnetic
susceptibility data shown in subsequent figures. We notice that the 40
and 60

Figure 2: (a) Temperature dependence of electrical resistivity for
samples doping from LaRu3Si2 to CeRu3Si2 around the transition
temperature. (b) Temperature dependence of dc magnetic susceptibility
for samples doping from LaRu3Si2 to CeRu3Si2 as measured under a
magnetic field of 50 Oe. Both the magnetic susceptibilities measured in
zero-field-cooled (ZFC) and field-cooled (FC) modes are shown. The value
of −4π_kh_z_ measured with the ZFC mode is larger than 1 because of the
demagnetization factor.

Table 2: The fitting parameters C and T₀ and the calculated effective
magnetic moments $\mu_{\rm eff}$ for different doped LaRu₃Si₂ samples.

Figure 8: The calculated localized effective magnetic moments of Ni and
Cr dopants; the results for Fe and Co dopants are also shown for
comparison. The dashed line represents the effective magnetic moments of
one Ru atom.

Figure 7: The susceptibility data under 3 T from T_(c) to 30 K along
with the fitting curves for some Ni and Cr doped samples; the obtained
fitting parameters C, T₀ and χ₀ are also shown.

* [1] M. M. Qazilbash, J. J. Hamlin, R. E. Baumbach, L. J. Zhang, D. J.
Singh, M. B. Maple, and D. N. Basov, Nat. Phys. **5**, 647 (2009). * [2]
M. R. Norman, J. Supercond. Nov. Magn. **25**, 2131 (2012). * [3] B.
Keimer, S. A. Kivelson, M. R. Norman, S. Uchida, and J. Zaanen, Nature
**518**, 179 (2015). * [4] C. M. Varma, Z. Nussinov, and W. van
Saarloos, Phys. Rep. **361**, 267 (2002). * [5] Z. P. Yin, K. Haule, and
G. Kotliar, Nat. Mater. **10**, 932 (2011). * [6] S. Yan, A. H. David,
and R. W. Steven, Science **332**, 1173 (2011). * [7] P. W. Anderson,
Science **235**, 1196 (1987). * [8] P. W. Anderson, P. A. Lee, M.
Randeria, T. M. Rice, N. Trivedi, and F. C. Zhang, J. Phys.: Condens.
Matter **16**, R755 (2004). * [9] S. K. Malik, A. M. Umarij, G. K.
Shenoy, A. T. Aldred, and D. G. Niarchos, Phys. Rev. B **32**, 4742
(1985). * [10] K. S. Athreya, L. S. Hausermann-Berg, R. N. Shelton, S.
K. Malik, A. M. Umarij, and G. K. Shenoy, Phys. Lett. A **113**, 330
(1985). * [11] H. C. Ku, G. P. Meisner, F. Acker, and D. J. Johnston,
Solid State Commun. **35**, 91 (1980). * [12] U. Rauchschwalbe, W.
Lieke, F. Steglich, C. Godart, L. C. Gupta, and R. D. Parks, Phys. Rev.
B **30**, 444(R) (1984). * [13] J. M. Vandenberg and H. Barz, Mater.
Res. Bull. **15**, 1493 (1980). * [14] S. Li, B. Zeng, X. G. Wan, J.
Tao, F. Han, H. Yang, Z. H. Wang, and H.-H. Wen, Phys. Rev. B **84**,
214527 (2011). * [15] S. Li, J. Tao, X. G. Wan, X. X. Ding, H. Yang, and
H.-H. Wen, Phys. Rev. B **86**, 024513 (2012). * [16] T. Michael,
_Introduction to Superconductivity_ (McGraw-Hill, Inc. New York,
1996). * [17] A. A. Abrikosov and L. P. Gorkov, Zh. Eksp. Teor. Fiz.
**39**, 1781 (1960). * [18] H. Kim, G. Preosti, and P. Muzikar, Phys.
Rev. B **49**, 3544 (1994). * [19] R. J. Radtke, K. Levin, H.-B.
Schuttler, and M. R. Norman, Phys. Rev. B **48**, 653 (1993).
