# Comparative study of the characteristic length scales and fields

of Hg-based high-T_(c) superconductors

J. R. Thompson

Oak Ridge National Laboratory, P.O. Box 2008, Oak Ridge, Tennessee
37831-6061

and Department of Physics, University of Tennessee, Knoxville, Tennessee
37996-1200

J. G. Ossandon

Facultad de Ingenieria, Universidad de Talca, Curico, Chile

D. K. Christen

Oak Ridge National Laboratory, P.O. Box 2008, Oak Ridge, Tennessee
37831-6061

Y. C. Kim*

Department of Physics, University of Tennessee, Knoxville, Tennessee
37996-1200

27 February 1996

###### Abstract

The equilibrium magnetization was studied in magnetically aligned
Hg-based cuprate superconductors with a crystal structure containing
one, two, and three adjacent Cu-O layers. The mixed state magnetization
was measured with the magnetic field applied perpendicular to the
layers, along with low field Meissner effect and normal state
susceptibility studies for volume correction factors. The internally
consistent analysis is used to identify systematics as the number "_n_"
of Cu-O layers increases. The study reveals a linear increase in the
slope of upper critical field −dH_(c2)/dT with "_n_". Most importantly,
we find a nearly constant carrier doping per Cu-O layer. This result is
compared with other studies, e.g., Rietveld analysis of neutron
diffractometry, and its implications are discussed.
[S0163-1829(96)04534-1]

## Introduction

A ubiquitous feature of high-T_(c) superconductors is the presence of
copper-oxygen layers in the material crystal structure. These sheets
stack with one, two, three, or even more adjacent layers to form a set
of planes. Between the plane sets are separator or "blocking" layers of
Hg-O, Bi-O, or Tl-O, for example, which complete the structure and
provide charge carriers for the conductive Cu-O planar sets. This
stacking of building blocks gives existence to a homologous series of
structures, i.e., families of superconductors.

In this work, we make a systematic study of the Hg-based cuprate family
containing one, two, or three adjacent Cu-O layers per set. Studies of
the equilibrium magnetic properties give internally consistent measures
of the superconducting length scales: the coherence length x and the
London penetration depth l. We use a convenient available theoretical
method–the formalism of Hao-Clem _et al._’–to analyze experimental
studies of magnetically aligned powders, dispersed in epoxy. In all
cases, we consider the well defined and conceptually simple
configuration with the magnetic field applied perpendicular to the Cu-O
planes; we avoid too the additional complexity of angular averages
associated with random polycrystalline materials. With a tetragonal
crystal structure and comparatively stable oxygen stoichiometry, the
Hg-based cuprate superconductors constitute a nearly ideal case. Hence
we have made a systematic study of the first three members, to determine
what trends may exist in their characteristic length and magnetic field
scales.

The first of the Hg-based cuprates, HgBa₂CuO_(4 + δ) (Hg-1201) possesses
just one Cu-oxide layer per unit cell and exhibits a remarkably high
transition temperature T_(c) near 95 K.2 Hg-1201 is the first member
(_n_ = 1) of the homologous series of HgBa₂Ca_(n − 1)Cu₄O_(2n + 2 + δ),
similar to the mono-Tl-O layered series TlBa₂Ca_(n − 1)Cu₄O_(2n + 3).
The n = 2 member of these Hg compounds was first formed as part of a
nonsuperconductive multiphase mixture3 and later the superconducting
compound HgBa₂CaCu₂O_(6 + δ) was synthesized.4${}^{\rm{.}\rm{.}\rm{6}}$
Hereafter we denote the two layer Hg-Ba-Ca-Cu oxide as Hg-1212. The n =
3 member, HgBa₂Ca₂Cu₃O_(8 + δ)(Hg-1223), was first synthesized by
Schilling _et al._7 and found to have the unprecedentedly high T_(c) of
133 K. Structurally, all of these materials have conceptually simple
tetragonal crystallography. A useful set of idealized perspective
drawings of these structures, as well as those of many other high-T_(c)
materials, has been compiled by Shaked _et al._8

## Experimental aspects

Bulk samples of Hg-based high-T_(c) cuprates were prepared by
solid-state reaction from stoichiometric mixtures of 99.998

A SQUID-based magnetometer (Quantum Design model MPMS-7) was used to
measure the magnetic properties of the materials, both in the low field
Meissner state and in the vortex state above the lower critical field
_H__c_1. In all cases, the magnetic field H was applied perpendicular to
the Cu-O planes, i.e., _H_∥_c_ axis of the composite sample. Scan
lengths of 3 cm were used to maintain a field uniformity of <0.005

Since the Meissner state susceptibility of an ideal superconducting body
is -1/4 π, the quantity -4 πχ(T≪T_(c)) gives an estimate for the volume
fraction _V_${}_{\rm{sc}}$/_V_${}_{\rm{tot}}$ of superconductor. Values
at T = 5 K are given in Table 1 for each material. These values should
be a lower bound on the true volume fraction, as both vortex pinning and
small particle size effects [12] reduce the magnitude of expelled flux.

In the mixed state, measurements of the isothermal magnetization M were
made for a set of temperatures T between 5 K and T_(c). To obtain virgin
magnetization curves, trapped flux was released from the sample by
heating it above T_(c) and then recooling it in zero applied field.
Prior to applying the magnetic field H, the temperature was stabilized
to within +-0.05 K of the target temperature. With the temperature
stabilized, the magnetic moment m was measured for fields H in the range
0.01-6.5-0.01 T. A 10 s pause after each field change allowed rapid
instrumental transients to decay.

To correct for magnetic background effects, the normal state magnetic
susceptibility was measured for temperatures from 250 K down to the
fluctuation region near T_(c). A Curie-like behavior was found, with
m_(g) = _H_(_kh_0 + _C__t_/_T_); note that the coefficients in this
expression refer to the magnetic moment and not the moment per volume.
This dependence was extrapolated to temperatures below T_(c) and
subtracted from the measured magnetic moment, in order to isolate the
superconducting signal. Then the equilibrium magnetization was
determined as the mean value between field-increasing and
field-decreasing magnetic moment, divided by _V_${}_{\rm{tot}}$. For
nearly all of the results reported here, the measurements were conducted
in the magnetically reversible region above the irreversibility line and
these values coincided. Parenthetically, we note a potential pitfall
with the averaging procedure that is related to surface barrier effects,
which are fre

Figure 2: The Meissner state diamagnetic susceptibility 4 πχ versus
temperature T for the three samples shown.

Figure 1: Rocking curves: x-ray count rate (arbitrary logarithmic scale)
versus rocking angle for the (006) reflections (Cu _K__α_ radiation)
from three magnetically aligned samples of Hg-cuprate superconductor.
Lines are fits to the expression I = I0(1 + ω²/Ω²)−3/2.

quently observed in Hg-based superconductors.[13, 14, 15] With a surface
barrier, the thermally activated decay of M is much more rapid in the
field-increasing branch. Consequently the mean value of substantially
hysteretic signals tends to underestimate the magnitude of the
equilibrium magnetization–and the severity of the effect may be field
dependent. Measurements of the hysteresis loops, with H first increasing
and then decreasing, made it easy to recognize regions of magnetic
irreversibility at lower fields and temperatures.

One can also extract complementary estimates for the superconducting
volume fraction from the magnetic background measurements, specifically
the "Curie constant" C^(′). This temperature dependent component arises
mostly from paramagnetic Cu ions, since closed shell ions such as Ba⁺²
or Ca⁺² have small diamagnetic moments that give a temperature
independent susceptibility. Then the total number of Cu ions is
$N_{\rm tot}$=($N_{\rm sc}$+$N_{\rm para}$), where $N_{\rm para}$ is the
number of Cu ions in insulating, paramagnetic phases such as barium
cuprates. For a Curie law susceptibility, we have C^(′) =
$N_{\rm para}\mu_{B}^{2}$/3k_(B), where μ_(B) is the Bohr magneton,
p∼1.73 is the effective moment of an isolated 3d⁹ Cu⁺² ion, and k_(B) is
Boltzmann’s constant. Combining these expressions, we have that [1 -
3k_(B)C^(′)/$N_{\rm tot}$μ_(B)²p²] = $N_{\rm sc}$/$N_{\rm tot}$ =
$V_{\rm sc}$/$V_{\rm tot}$. From this procedure, an independent set of
estimates for the superconducting volume fraction was obtained. The
values are shown in Table I. This modeling assumes that the normal state
susceptibility of the superconducting phase _per se_ is nominally
temperature independent, which is plausible for a system with extended
"_d_" states and is observed experimentally.

## Experimental results

To obtain information on the microscopic superconducting properties of
the three Hg cuprates, we use the formulation of Hao-Clem to analyze the
reversible magnetization M. The authors[1] have described in detail the
basis for this theory. It accounts explicitly for the core energy of
vortices, through approximate analytical expressions for their
structure, and provides values for the Ginzburg-Landau parameter κ(T) =
λ(T)/ξ(T) and the thermodynamic critical field H_(c)(T). In practice,
the formalism is implemented using a self-consistency criterion: one
analyzes the isothermal M(H) at various fields (here H = 1, 2, 3, 4, and
5 T) and finds a value for κ such that H_(c)(T) is the same (or nearly
so) at each field. Then the process is repeated at other fixed
temperatures; our methodology has been reported previously.[16] The
values of κ(T) for the three samples with H∥c axis are shown in Fig. 3
as a function of reduced temperature t = T/T_(c). The results for the
range t ≤0.85 are well behaved, with κ being nearly independent of
temperature. For t >0.85, fluctuation effects cause the extracted values
to increase rapidly with temperature, with qualitatively similar
behavior for the three samples. As fluctuations are not incorporated in
the Hao-Clem formulation, the data near T_(c) are excluded from the
subsequent analysis.

To reduce experimental noise, we average κ over its
temperature-independent interval t <0.8-0.85. We then re-compute
H_(c)(T) at each temperature, for each sample. These resulting
equilibrium parameters provide much useful information. For example, the
upper critical magnetic field is H_(c2)(T) = βκH_(c)(T) in
Ginzburg-Landau theory. Figure 4 shows results for H_(c2) versus
temperature that are reasonably

Figure 3: Temperature dependence of the Ginzburg-Landau parameter κ, as
obtained by analyzing the reversible magnetization using the Hao-Clem
formulation; see text.

well behaved: (1) as T decreases from T_(c), _H__c_2 varies
approximately linearly with T and (2) it continues a smooth, monotonic
increase down to the lowest temperatures where the materials were
magnetically reversible. For three-dimensional (3D) materials,
Werthamer, Helfand, and Hohenberg[17] (WHH) have shown that the upper
critical field _H__c_2(0) extrapolated to T = 0 is proportional to the
slope _dH__c_2/_dT_ near T_(c), with

H_(c2)(0) = 0.7T_(c)[dH_(c2)/dT]_(−T_(c))

. Table I contains values extrapolated to T = 0, using this expression.
Corresponding values for the coherence length at zero temperature,
x_(b), were obtained from the standard Ginzburg-Landau (GL) expression
_H__c_2(0) = _ph_0/2_π_x__ab_ and are shown in Table I also. Finally, it
contains values for the thermodynamic critical field H_(c) extrapolated
to T = 0. These nominal values were obtained by fitting the BCS
expression of Clem[18]

$$\frac{H_{c}}{H_{c}(0)} = 1.7367\left| {1 - \frac{T}{T_{c}}} \right|\left[ {1 - 0.2730} \right| 1 - \frac{T}{T_{c}}$$

$$- 0.0949\left| {1 - \frac{T}{T_{c}}} \right|^{2}$$

which is valid for t = _T_/_T__c_2 > 0.7.

Let us now account for the influence of an incomplete volume fraction of
superconductor, f = _V__sc_/_V_tot. Conceptually it is simplest to
consider the total condensation energy E of the sample, since the
experimental measurement is performed on the total sample, no matter how
it is partitioned. So far, all results have been based on the total
volume _V_tot, as obtained from the sample mass. Then one has E
 (H_(c))2_V_tot with the value H_(c) for the critical field. If the
true, smaller volume of superconductor is _V__sc, then the energy is E
 (H_(c),rescaled2_V_sc with a rescaled, larger critical field
H_(c),rescaled. Since the energy (and the sample) are the same in each
case, we have H_(c),rescaled=_H__c_/_V_tot/_V_tot)[12] = _H__c_/_f_1/2.
Similar considerations show that the rescaled kappa is
_k__rescaled=_k__x__x__f_1/2. Finally, we see that with _H__c_2 =
_|_2_k__H__c_, the volumetric factors cancel; hence no rescaling is
needed for _H__c_2 or _x Now we consider the "volume fraction corrected"
quantities. The critical field H_(c)(0) has fundamental thermodynamic
interest and is shown in Fig. 5(c) versus layer number n. For Hg-1201,
the present value 0.6 T lies between the earlier determinations of
Thompson _et al._,20 1.0 T, and that of Puzniak _et al._,23 0.43 T. For
Hg-1223, we obtain H_(c)(0) = 1.2 T. This is again about 50

It is interesting to see what further trends emerge from the
quantitative results. To do so, we apply simple 3D relations from BCS
and Ginzburg-Landau theory. Orlando _et al._,29 whose notation we use in
the following, provided a convenient compilation of theoretical results.
For example, one can use the relation

H_(c) = 4.23 γ^(1/2)T_(c)(1 − t)

to estimate γ, the coefficient of the linear electronic heat capacity.
In this tabulation, magnetic fields are measured in Oe, and all lengths
are measured in cm. From the values of H_(c) and T_(c) , this relation
predicts γ ≈ 250-430 erg/cm³ K² for the three Hg compounds. This
estimate lies much lower than simple BCS theory (which neglects sizeable
fluctuation effects) would predict,  ∼ 2000 erg/cm³ K², from the jump in
specific heat of Hg-1223 near T_(c) as measured by Schilling _et al._26
The estimate compares reasonably well, however, with the value
$\gamma_{\rm BCS}$ ∼ 600 erg/cm³ K² for BiPb-2223 deduced by Schnelle
_et al._,30 who explicitly allowed for fluctuations in their analysis.
Next one has, in the clean limit, that

−dH_(c2)/dT = 9.55 × 10²⁴γ²T_(c)(n²³S/S_(F))⁻²,

where n is the density of conduction electrons, S is the Fermi-surface
area, and S_(F) is the Fermi-surface area for a free electron gas of
density n. Using the slopes of H_(c2) given in Table 1 and setting
S/S_(F)=1 for simplicity, we estimate that n ≈ 0.6, 1.1, and 1.1×10²¹
cm⁻³ for the one, two, and three layer material, respectively.

Microscopically, the deduced carrier density corresponds to having 0.08,
0.11, and 0.09 charge carriers _per layer_ in the unit cell: thus the
layer doping is approximately the same in the three materials. The
deduced doping level is comparable with the oxygen excess δ ≈ 0.06
reported for fully oxygenated Hg-1201 materials31 and δ2^(′) ≈ 0.11 for
oxygenated Hg-1212 (Ref. 6). It is particularly striking to compare the
present findings with the results of a recent neutron powder
diffractometry study,32 performed on materials synthesized and annealed
in oxygen in exactly the same manner as those studied in the present
work. Rietveld analyses yielded δ values of 0.10±0.01, 0.32±0.03, and
0.24±0.03 for the n = 1, 2, and 3 members, respectively. This
corresponds to an excess of 0.10, 0.16, and 0.08 oxygens per layer. Thus
the deduced doping level per layer is similar for the three materials,
which corroborates the finding in the experimentally independent
magnetic analysis. Of course, these superconductors are far more complex
than simple metals and details of band structure are being ignored–we
omit many unknown factors of order unity. Nonetheless, with similarly
structured compounds, our treatment preserves the systematics within the
Hg-based family and reveals a nominally constant number of carriers per
layer in the unit cell. In fact, this conclusion is conceptually
consistent with earlier studies of T_(c) versus hole density in other
high-T_(c) families. In particular, Presland _et al._33 and Tallon and
Flower34 have argued that the maximum T_(c) always occurs at the same
number of holes per planar Cu ion,  ≈ 0.16. The present results for the
Hg cuprates can be regarded as independent evidence for the general
concept of a constant number of carriers per copper ion, at doping
levels that maximize T_(c) .

A constant areal density N/A of charge carries has interesting
implications. If one regards _each_ Cu-O layer as a 2D electron gas,
then the Fermi velocity v_(F) ∝ (N/A)^(1/2)/m^(*) should be the same for
each of the three materials, assuming that they have the same electronic
effective mass m^(*). Interestingly, this conjecture regarding the Fermi
velocity is implicit in the results for ξ and T_(c) in Table 1. Let us
recall that, in general, one has ξ ∝ ℏv_(F)/Δ(T = 0) ∝ ℏv_(F)/T_(c) ,
where we

Figure 5: Equilibrium properties versus number n of adjacent Cu-O layers
in Hg-cuprates HgBa₂Ca_(n − 1)Cu_(n)O_(2n + 2). (a) the deduced slope
−dH_(c2)/dT of the upper critical field, near T_(c) ; (b) the coherence
length ξ_(ab) in the ab (copper-oxygen) plane, extrapolated to T = 0;
(c) the thermodynamic critical field $H_{c,\rm rescaled}(T = 0)$,
rescaled to correct for superconducting volume fraction, as described in
the text.

plausibly assume that the superconducting gap ratio Δ/T_(c) is the same
for the three Hg cuprates. Thus one has that υ_(F)^(α)ξ×T_(c) : using
the results in Table 1 gives the same value for this product, (187 ±10)
nm K, for each of the three materials. Hence both models, with the
assumptions outlined, imply that the Fermi velocity is about the same
for the three optimally doped materials. This implication should, of
course, be confirmed by other more direct methods.

Continuing, then, with the formalism compiled by Orlando _et al._,[29]
one has the following relation for the London penetration depth λ_(ab) :

λ(T = 0) = 1.33 × 10⁸ γ^(1/2)(n^(2/3)S/S_(F))⁻¹.
(5)

Again eliminating the hard-to-measure quantity γ gives estimates for
λ_(ab) that are larger than the Table 1 values by a factor of 1.7 in
each case. A similar numerical difference was found previously in
studies of neutron-damaged BiPb-2223 materials.[35]

Given the higher T_(c) and short coherence lengths of the cuprate
superconductors, it has become apparent that fluctuations play a larger
role than in conventional superconductors. Indeed, the apparent upturn
and divergence in κ at temperatures near T_(c) , as observed in Fig. 3,
has been accounted for, by incorporating fluctuations in a London
formulation.[36, 37] However, we do not use the formalism here for the
following reason. A central feature of this theory is a "crossing point"
magnetization M^(*) = k_(B)T^(*) /ϕ₀s, such that the mixed state
magnetization at temperature T^(*) is independent of H. Here "s" is the
spacing between sets of Cu-O planes, which can be obtained from x-ray
diffraction. Values for "s" from magnetization studies are often larger
than the x-ray values, and this fact is generally interpreted in terms
of an incomplete superconducting value fraction
$f\!=\!(s_{\rm exp}/s_{\rm x})\!\!<\!1$. The difficulty in the present
case is that the estimates so obtained are significantly smaller (1/4 to
1/2) than either the Meissner fraction or the estimate based on the
Curie background. Given this implausible result, we do not apply here
the formalism incorporating fluctuations and exclude the measurements
made in the fluctuation region near T_(c) from our determinations of
H_(c2₁^(*)), H_(c) , etc. Similar contradictions have been noted by
others.[38]

Finally, we note that previous applications of the Hao-Clem formalism
have yielded unlikely results in some cases. For example, analysis[9] of
M(H, T) for single crystals of Bi₂Sr₂Ca₁Cu₂O₈ (H∥c) gave values for
H_(c2) that are independent of temperature for T in the range 35-70 K.
Kogan _et al.[40]_ have shown that nonlocality (a nonlocal relation
between the current density ${\bf j}$ and vector potential ${\bf a}$)
accounts well for the observed temperature independence. The phenomenon
is most pronounced in very clean, high-κ superconductors. On the other
hand, a modest amount of electron scattering (due to structural
disorder, impurities, etc.) reduces the mean free path, so that the
electrodynamics becomes local and the conventional formalism can be
applied. In the present case, Fig. 4 shows that H_(c2) is well behaved
to the lowest temperatures where M was reversible. Consequently, the
Hao-Clem formalism is appropriately applied here.

In conclusion, we have studied the equilibrium magnetization of
magnetically aligned Hg-based cuprate superconductors containing one,
two, and three adjacent Cu-O layers. Internally consistent values for
the characteristic lengths and fields are deduced for the three
materials. Specific trends include (1) a systematic increase in the
slope of the upper critical magnetic field H_(c2) with layer number n
and (2) evidence that the number of charge carriers per layer is nearly
the same for the three materials; the latter feature is corroborated by
a Rietveld analysis of neutron diffractometry experiments. Further
comparisons and implications have been presented. Specific values agree
well with some previous measurements[26] for Hg-1223, but differ
significantly from the findings of a another study[23] based on a simple
London-limit analysis.

###### Acknowledgements.

We wish to acknowledge valuable discussions with V. G. Kogan. The work
of J.G.O. was supported by the Chilean FONDECYT under Grant No. 1941149
and the Science Alliance at the University of Tennessee sponsored a
portion of the work of J.R.T. The research was sponsored by the Division
of Materials Sciences, U.S. Department of Energy under Contract No.
DE-AC05-96OR22464 with Lockheed Martin Energy Research Corp.

## References

* [1] Z. Hao, J. R. Clem, M. McElfresh, L. Civale, A. P. Malozemoff, and
F. Holtzberg, Phys. Rev. B **43**, 2844 (1991). * [2] S. N. Putilin, E.
V. Antipov, O. Chmaissem, and M. Marezio, Nature **362**, 226 (1993). *
[3] S. N. Putilin, I. Bryntse, and E. V. Antipov, Mater. Res. Bull.
**26**, 1299 (1991). * [4] S. N. Putilin, E. V. Antipov, and M. Marezio,
Physica C **212**, 266 (1993). * [5] R. L. Meng, Y. Y. Sun, K. Kulin, Z.
J. Huang, F. Chen, Y. Y. Xue, and C. W. Chu, Physica C **214**, 307
(1993). * [6] P. G. Radaelli, J. L. Wagner, B. A. Hunter, M. A. Beno, G.
S. Knapp, J. D. Jorgensen, and D. G. Hinks, Physica C **216**, 29
(1993). * [7] A. Schilling, M. Cantoni, J. D. Guo, and H. R. Ott, Nature
**363**, 56 (1993). * [8] H. Shaked, P. M. Keane, J. C. Rodriguez, F. F.
Owen, R. L. Hitterman, and J. D. Jorgensen, compilation published by
Physica C (1994). * [9] M. Paranthaman, Physica C **222**, 7 (1994). *
[10] D. E. Farrell, B. S. Chandrasekhar, M. R. DeGuirre, M. M. Fang, V.
G. Kogan, J. R. Clem, and D. K. Finnemore, Phys. Rev. B **36**, 4025
(1987). * [11] Y. C. Kim, J. R. Thompson, J. G. Ossandon, D. K.
Christen, and M. Paranthaman, Phys. Rev. B **51**, 11767 (1995). * [12]
J. R. Clem and V. G. Kogan, Jpn. J. Appl. Phys. **26**, 1161 (1987). *
[13] Yang Ren Sun, J. R. Thompson, H. R. Kerchner, D. K. Christen, M.
Paranthaman, and J. Brynestad, Phys. Rev. B **50**, 3330 (1994). * [14]
Y. C. Kim, J. R. Thompson, D. K. Christen, Y. R. Sun, M. Paranthaman,
and E. D. Specht, Phys. Rev. B **52**, 4438 (1995). * [15] J. A. Lewis,
V. M. Vinokur, J. Wagner, and D. Hinks, Phys. Rev. B **52**, R3852
(1995). * [16] J. G. Ossandon, J. R. Thompson, D. K. Christen, B. C.
Sales, H.

R. Kerchner, J. O. Thomson, Y. R. Sun, K. W. Lay, and J. E. Tkaczyk,
Phys. Rev. B **45**, 12 534 (1992). * [17] N. R. Werthamer, E. Helfand,
and P. C. Hohenberg, Phys. Rev. **147**, 295 (1966). * [18] J. R. Clem,
Ann. Phys. (N.Y.) **40**, 268 (1966). * [19] H. R. Ott, D. A. Brawner,
and A. Schilling, J. Low Temp. Phys. **99**, 251 (1995). * [20] J. R.
Thompson, J. G. Ossandon, D. K. Christen, B. C. Chakoumakos, Yang Ren
Sun, M. Paranthaman, and J. Brynestad, Phys. Rev. B **48**, 14 031
(1993). * [21] L. N. Bulaevskii, M. Ledvij, and V. G. Kogan, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **68**, 3773 (1992). * [22] V. G. Kogan, M. Ledvij, A. Yu.
Simonov, J. H. Cho, and D. C. Johnston, Phys. Rev. Lett. **70**, 1870
(1993). * [23] R. Puzniak, K. Isawa, R. Usami, and H. Yamauchi, Physica
C **233**, 21 (1994). * [24] V. G. Kogan, M. M. Fang, and Sreeparna
Mitra, Phys. Rev. B **38**, 11 958 (1988). * [25] U. Welp, W. K. Kwok,
G. W. Crabtree, K. Vandervoort, A. Umezawa, and J. Z. Liu, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **62**, 1908 (1989). * [26] A. Schilling, O. Jeandupeux, S.
Buechi, H. R. Ott, and C. Rossel, Physica C **235-240**, 229 (1994). *
[27] Z. L. Huang, Y. Y. Xue, R. L. Meng, X. D. Que, Z. D. Hao, and C. W.
Chu, Physica C **228**, 211 (1994). * [28] Myoung-Kwang Bae, M. S. Choi,
Mi-Ock Mun, Sergey Lee, Sung-Ik Lee, and W. C. Lee, Physica C **228**,
195 (1994). * [29] T. P. Orlando, E. J. McNiff, Jr., S. Foner, and M. R.
Beasley, Phys. Rev. B **19**, 4545 (1979), and references therein. *
[30] W. Schnelle, O. Hoffels, E. Braun, B. Broicher, and D. Wohlleben,
in _Physics and Materials Science of High Temperature
Superconductors-II_, Vol. 209 of _NATO Advanced Studies Institute,
Series E_, edited by R. Kossowsky, B. Raveau, D. Wohlleben, and S.
Patapis (Kluwer, Dordrecht, the Netherlands, 1992), p. 151. * [31] J. L.
Wagner, P. G. Radaelli, D. G. Hinks, J. D. Jorgensen, J. F. Mitchell, B.
Dabrowski, G. S. Knapp, and M. A. Beno, Physica C **210**, 447 (1993). *
[32] M. Paranthaman and B. C. Chakoumakos, J. Solid State Chem. **122**,
221 (1996). * [33] M. R. Presland, J. L. Tallon, R. G. Buckley, R. S.
Liu, and N. E. Flower, Physica C **176**, 95 (1991). * [34] J. L. Tallon
and N. E. Flower, Physica C **204**, 237 (1993). * [35] J. G. Ossandon,
J. R. Thompson, Y. C. Kim, Yang Ren Sun, D. K. Christen, and B. C.
Chakoumakos, Phys. Rev. B **51**, 8551 (1995). * [36] L. N. Bulaevskii,
M. Ledvij, and V. G. Kogan, Phys. Rev. Lett. **68**, 3773 (1992). * [37]
V. G. Kogan, M. Ledvij, A. Yu. Simonov, J. H. Cho, and D. C. Johnston,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **70**, 1870 (1993). * [38] C. W. Chu (private
communication). * [39] J. H. Cho, Z. Hao, and D. C. Johnston, Phys. Rev.
B **46**, 8679 (1992). * [40] V. G. Kogan, A. Gurevich, J. H. Cho, D. C.
Johnston, Ming Xu, J. R. Thompson, and A. Martynovich (unpublished).
