# Infrared absorptivity of YBa2Cu3O7-_x_ crystals

T. Pham and H. D. Drew

Center for Superconductivity Research, Physics Department, University of
Maryland, College Park, Maryland 20742

and Laboratory for Physical Sciences, College Park, Maryland 20740

S. H. Moseley

National Aeronautics and Space Administration, Goddard Space Flight
Center, Greenbelt, Maryland 20771

J. Z. Liu

Physics Department, University of California, Davis, California 95616

(Received 16 January 1990; revised manuscript received 7 March 1990)

Measurements on twinned single crystals at 2 K show a smooth,
approximately a2, absorptivity for frequencies between 80 and 400 cm-1.
Analysis of the data with a simple model conductivity suggests a
constant lossy conductivity contribution in the bulk superconductor.
Superimposed on the a2 background are absorption features corresponding
to optically active phonons, plus a broad feature (D_A_ = 0.2

Despite prodigious research efforts the high-temperature superconductors
remain mysterious, not only in their superconducting properties but also
in their normal state. There have been extensive measurements reported
in the literature relating to the nature of the low-frequency
excitations and a possible energy gap in the superconducting state,
including infrared reflectance,1-5 tunneling,6 photoemission,7 and Raman
scattering.8 Even the measurements on the best single-crystal (twinned)
materials available have not yet led to a clear picture of the
superconducting ground state. In particular, there is controversy not
only over the width of the superconducting energy gap but even over its
existence. This unsatisfactory situation arises, in part, from material
problems inherent in these ceramic oxides: sensitivity of results to
granularity, anisotropy, twinning planes, nonstoichiometry–and in the
case of tunneling–surface defects together with the short coherence
lengths. These problems add to the difficulty of interpreting data.9
Another problem in the IR measurements is purely experimental. The
absolute IR reflectivity R of high-quality YBa2Cu3O7-_x_ single crystals
in the far-infrared, where the superconducting gap may be expected to be
observed (_v_ <= 400 cm-1), is very close to unity (_R_ >= 98

We have studied several YBa2Cu3O7-_x_ crystals with qualitatively
similar results. The samples were microtwinned crystals <= 2 x 2 x 0.1
mm3. T_(c) determined from ac susceptibility measurements before and
after the IR studies were typically 93 +- 0.2 K. The dc resistivities
near T_(c) are about 100 m _t_ t _t_. We focus here on the crystal that
was most thoroughly studied.

The apparatus for the measurement of the absolute absorptivity is shown
in Fig. 1. Radiation from a step-scan far-infrared Fourier transform
spectrometer (Specac) is directed into the T = 2 K sample holder through
a Cu plate (Ap) which has two apertures (= 1 mm diam). One aperture
opens onto a sample detector and the other onto the reference detector.
The sample detector (S) consists of a thin silicon substrate with a
doped-silicon thermistor epoxided to its back surface to monitor the
temperature rise upon absorption of radiation. The Y-Ba-Cu-O sample (Sa)
is held down onto the silicon substrate by thermal grease (Apezion _N_).
Similarly, the reference detector (R) is a silicon substrate-thermistor
pair in which the silicon substrate has a layer of Nichrome deposited on
the back surface to provide a large and uniform absorptivity. The
far-infrared radiation is chopped and the detector signal is measured
using phase-sensitive amplifiers. The relative absorptivity of the
sample is obtained by taking the ratio of the sample to reference
spectra. Absolute absorptivity is obtained by a calibration of the two
detectors.

The absorptivity spectra of our Y-Ba-Cu-O crystal are shown in Fig. 2.
The most notable observation is an approximately o2 (_o_ = 2_p_cv_)
dependent absorption over the entire measurement range (up to 400 cm-1).
In addition there appears several absorption features superimposed on
the background with well-defined peaks at 142, 187, 263, 292, 332, and
351 cm-1, and a broad feature starting around 230 cm ⁻¹. The data above
≃370 cm ⁻¹ are less precise due to reduced modulation efficiency of the
wire grid beam splitter of the spectrometer. The absolute scale of the
absorptivity agrees with published reflectance data, ¹ ⁻ ⁵ within the
calibration errors of our measurements. On the other hand, the
essentially continuous (within 0.1

There are several sources of systematic errors that can affect the
measured sample absorptivity. First, any significant absorption features
coming from the reference detector can show up as spurious structures in
the sample absorptivity. Therefore, to obtain a frequency independent
reference absorption, the resistance of the Nichrome film is carefully
tuned, to eliminate interference effects within the silicon substrate.
This results in a reference absorptivity of about 50

In addition, the silicon substrate on which the Y-Ba-Cu-O crystal is
mounted can transmit radiation reflected from the bottom of the aperture
plate. The top surface of the silicon substrate is, therefore, coated
with an opaque gold film. The gold absorption spectra is smaller than,
and has the opposite curvature from, that observed in YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − x).
To reduce the resulting effects of multiple reflections a coating of
black paint has been applied to the bottom surface of the aperture
plate. Nevertheless the low absorption efficiency of this paint at low
frequencies results in a spurious divergence of A at low frequencies, as
shown by the dashed lines in Fig. 2. We have corrected for this error
signal by fitting the data below ν = 80 cm ⁻¹ to a power law and
subtracting this spectrum from the data. This procedure gives the open
circle curves in Fig. 2.

Finally, to obtain the absolute absorptivity from these data it is
necessary to determine the responsivity of the bolometer detectors at
the measurement frequency (≃ 7 Hz). This is done by calibrating the
detectors with electrical-heat sources at the measurement frequency. The
slow response of our sample detector (τ = 200 msec) results in a
relatively high uncertainty for the responsivity, therefore introducing
a systematic error of about 20

To check the overall system performance, the absorptivity of a
similar-sized brass sample was measured, and compared with a calculated
normal skin effect absorptivity (Fig. 2, top) based on the measured
resistivity of brass

Figure 2: Top: Measured (open circle) and calculated (solid curve)
normal skin-effect absorptivity of brass. Bottom: Measured (open circle)
superconducting absorptivity of two sides of a T_(c) = 93 K crystal. The
estimated ω² background absorptivity of the superconductor, in the
absence of the phonon contribution, is indicated by the solid curve. The
dashed curves show the leakage signal. The dash-dotted curve represents
a clean-limit BCS contribution to A. The error bars represent the
estimated combined systematic and statistical errors. The arrow marks
the BCS gap frequency ν = 3.5kT_(c) (=227 cm ⁻¹).

Figure 1: Bolometric absorptivity apparatus. The fir radiation passes
through an aperture plate (Ap) onto a reference (R) detector and a
Y-Ba-Cu-O sample (Sa) mounted on top of a sample (S) detector. An
absorber (Ab) reduces the reflection of transmitted radiation back to
the detectors.

(3.3 μO cm) at T = 4.2 K. The statistical noise is somewhat larger for
the brass samples which were averaged for a shorter time. In summary,
the black paint and the uncertainty in the responsivities determine the
low- and high-frequency systematic errors, to about ± 0.1

In order to gain some insight into the implications of these data we
present a simplified analysis that contains most of the important
physics. At low frequencies the sample response is dominated by the
supercurrent screening. Therefore we model the conductivity as
consisting of two parts; an ideal London term σ_(L), plus a term σ̂, to
describe any lossy component. For the London term σ_(L)(ω) = σ₁ + iσ₂,
where the real part σ₁(ω) = c²δ(ω)/4λ_(L)² gives the infinite dc
conductivity and the corresponding imaginary part is σ₂(ω) =
c²/(4πλ_(L)ω) where c is the speed of light, and λ_(L) the London
penetration depth [15, 16] (= 1500 A). This conductivity function is
that of a two-fluid model, with an infinite gap frequency for the
superconducting carriers and a short mean free time τ̂ for the
normal-state carriers. It should be valid for ℏω ≪ 2Δ (photon energy
below the energy gap) or ℏτ⁻¹ ≪ 2Δ (clean limit), and for ω ≪ 1. If the
conductivity σ̂ is then adjusted to fit the smooth ω² absortivity, a
constant δ = 1400 (Ω cm)⁻¹ accounts for the observed absorptivity. We
note that the resulting σ̂ satisfies σ̂/σ₂≪ 1 for ν < 400 cm⁻¹. The
contributions from infrared active phonons can be added to the above
conductivity function, giving rise to absorptive features on top of the
ω² background. A Kramers-Kronig analysis of these absorptivity data
grafted onto published high-frequency reflectivity data substantiates
these conclusions [17].

The above analysis assumes that the low-frequency absorptivity results
from losses in the bulk superconductor. It is also possible to model the
ω² background absorptivity as a surface effect. In this case we assume a
thin layer having a constant conductivity, σ_(s), on top of an ideal
London superconductor substrate, σ_(L). If the film is much thinner than
the decay length of the radiation field in the surface layer, the
absorptivity approaches 16πλσ̂_(s)_da_ω²/c³ (where d is the film
thickness). Fitting the absorptivity data gives a constant resistivity
ρ_(s)/d = 1/σ_(s)d = 1 μO cm/A of surface layer thickness [18].

From these model calculations the observed background absorptivity is
seen to be consistent with either an intrinsic constant bulk
conductivity of some origin, or an extrinsic normal-state surface layer
on the superconducting sample. We note that at the measurement
temperature of 2 K the contribution of thermally excited quasiparticles
would be negligible in a 90 K BCS superconductor. An intrinsic constant
conductivity suggests gapless (or small gap) superconductivity over a
finite area of the Fermi surface, e.g., a gapless response by the CuO₂
chains. Tunneling [6], photoemission [7], and Raman scattering [8]
experiments have also shown some indications of a continuum of states
below 3.5kT_(c), although experimental artifacts and c-axis
contributions have not been completely ruled out. Twinning boundaries or
other defects [9] could also give rise to finite absorption for
frequency below the superconducting gap.

Extrinsic effects such as prolonged ambient exposure is known to alter
the surface stoichiometry [19] and photoemission data [7] on
Bi-Sr-Ca-Cu-O crystals suggests that the first few layers are less
superconducting than the bulk. More specifically, Auger analysis on
single-crystal Y-Ba-Cu-O indicates that the stoichiometry approaches the
bulk within 200 A of the surface. The layers nearer the surface are low
in Cu and O, therefore favoring insulating behavior [19]. However,
taking d = 200 A in the above model implies 1/σ_(s) = ρ_(s) ≡ 200 μ m cm
in order to be consistent with the observed ω² absortivity. Since a film
of this conductivity would tend to be superconducting rather than
metallic, and since Y-Ba-O compounds would tend to be insulating rather
than metallic, we favor the conclusion that the background absorption is
an intrinsic bulk effect. Clearly, more systematic work will be required
to check this conclusion and to distinguish between intrinsic and
extrinsic effects.

Absorptive peaks near 142, 187, 332, and 351 cm⁻¹ are identified as
infrared active phonons. In the superconducting state the phonons appear
as absorptive peaks at their center frequency. We assign the 142 cm⁻¹
peak to the Cu(1)-O(IV) y-axis vibrational mode, the pair 187 and 203
cm⁻¹ to the Y-Cu(2)Cu(3) y- and x-axis vibrations, respectively. The 332
and 351 cm⁻¹ peaks could correspond to the y and x-axis vibrations of
the O(III). The weak features at 292 and possibly 263 cm⁻¹ do not match
with any known phonons, even for YBa₂Cu₃O₆ materials [20].

In the data (Fig. 2), there also appears to be a broad extra absorption,
ΔA ≈ 0.2

We thank K. P. Stewart, C. Lisse, and M. W. Lee for experimental
support, and L. H. Greene, Z. Schlesinger, and F. Zhang for helpful
discussions. Also we thank W. K. Kwok and T. K. Worthington for sample
characterization.

11684 * [1] G. A. Thomas, J. Orenstein, D. H. Rapkine, M. Capizzi, A. J.
Millis, R. N. Bhatt, L. F. Schneemeyer, and J. V. Waszczak, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **61**, 1313 (1988). * [2] J. Schutzmann, W. Ose, J. Keller, K. F.
Renk, B. Roas, L. Schultz, and G. Saemann-Ischenko, Europhys. Lett.
**8**, 679 (1989). * [3] R. T. Collins, Z. Schlesinger, F. Holtzberg,
and C. Feild, Phys. Rev. Lett. **63**, 422 (1989). * [4] K. Kamaras, S.
Herr, C. D. Porter, N. Tache, D. B. Tanner, S. Etemad, T. Venkatesan, E.
Chase, A. Inam, X. D. Wu, M. S. Hegde, and B. Dutta, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**64**, 84 (1990). * [5] S. L. Cooper, G. A. Thomas, J. Orenstein, D. H.
Rapkine, M. Capizzi, T. Timusk, A. J. Millis, L. F. Schneemeyer, and J.
V. Waszczak, Phys. Rev. B **40**, 11358 (1989). * [6] M. Gurvitch, J. M.
Valles, Jr., A. M. Cucolo, R. C. Dynes, J. P. Garno, L. F. Schneemeyer,
and J. V. Waszczak, Phys. Rev. Lett. **63**, 1008 (1989). * [7] J.-M.
Imer, F. Patthey, B. Dardel, W-D. Schneider, and Y. Baer, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **62**, 336 (1989). * [8] S. L. Cooper, M. V. Klein, B. G. Pazol,
J. P. Rice, and D. M. Ginsberg, Phys. Rev. B **37**, 5920 (1988); F.
Slakey, S. L. Cooper, M. V. Klein, J. P. Rice, and D. M. Ginsberg,
_ibid._**39**, 2781 (1989). * [9] M. Tinkham and C. J. Lobb, in
_Advances in Research and Applications_, Solid State Physics, Vol. 42,
edited by H. Ehrenreich and D. Turnbull (Academic, New York, 1989), p.
91. * [10] H. D. Drew and A. J. Sievers, Phys. Rev. Lett. **19**, 697
(1967). * [11] M. W. Lee, T. Pham, H. D. Drew, S. M. Bhagat, R. E.
Glover III, and S. H. Moseley, K. P. Stewart, and C. Lisse, Solid State
Commun. **65**, 1135 (1988). * [12] E. M. Gershenzon, G. N. Gol’tsman,
B. S. Karasik, and A. D. Semenov, Pis’ma Zh. Eksp. Teor. Fiz. **46**,
122 (1987) IJETP Lett. **48**, 151 (1987)]. * [13] D. Miller and P. L.
Richards, Bull. Am. Phys. Soc. **34**, 792 (1989). * [14] W. L. Kennedy,
C. Zahopoulos, and S. Sridhar, Solid State Commun. **70**, 741 (1989);
D. L. Rubin, K. Green, J. Gruschus, J. Kuchgesner, D. Moffat, H.
Padamsee, J. Sears, Q. S. Shu, L. F. Schneemeyer, and J. V. Waszczak,
Phys. Rev. B **38**, 6538 (1988). * [15] L. Krusin-Elbaum, R. L. Greene,
F. Holtzberg, A. P. Malozemoff, and Y. Yeshurun, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**62**, 217 (1989). * [16] D. R. Harshman, L. F. Schneemeyer, J. V.
Waszczak, G. Aeppli, R. J. Cava, B. Batlogg, L. W. Rupp, E. J. Ansaldo,
and D. L. Williams, Phys. Rev. B **39**, 851 (1989). * [17] Z.
Schlesinger (private communication). * [18] A more exact thin-film
calculation shows that for $d\ga 200$ A the film resistivity is no
longer linearly dependent on film thickness reaching ≈1.7 m n at d=1000
A. The absorptivity, however, still varies as ω². * [19] Z. Z. Wang _et
al._, Bull. Am. Phys. Soc. **34**, 423 (1989); and (private
communication). * [20] R. Feile, Physica C **159**, 1 (1989). * [21] For
the clean limit calculation we have taken σ₁=0 for ω < ω_(g) and
σ₁ = σ_(α₁) for ω > ω_(g) (where σ_(α) is the normal-state
conductivity). σ₂ is dominated by the London term. * [22] The dc
component of σ_(α₁) is determined from τ and the London penetration
depth.
