# Superconductivity in _R_Pt₂B₂C

R. J. Cava, B. Batlogg, T. Siegrist, J. J. Krajewski, W. F. Peck, Jr.,
S. Carter, and R. J. Felder

AT&T Bell Laboratories, 600 Mountain Avenue, Murray Hill, New Jersey
07974

H. Takagi

University of Tokyo, Department of Applied Physics, Hongo, Tokyo 113,
Japan

R. B. van Dover

AT&T Bell Laboratories, 600 Mountain Avenue, Murray Hill, New Jersey
07974

18 February 1994

###### Abstract

Superconductivity for lanthanide platinum boron carbide quaternary
intermetallic phases is reported. For _R_Pt₂B₂C, superconducting T_(c)’s
are approximately 10 K for _R_=La and Y and 6 K for _R_=Pr, reflecting
the influence of magnetic pair breaking. The crystal structure for one
of the analogs, LaPt₂B₂C, was determined by single-crystal x-ray
diffraction. These materials are isostructural with the recently
discovered _R_Ni₂B₂C superconductors, but apparently can accommodate
some nonstoichiometry. The density of states at the Fermi level for
LaPt₂B₂C is estimated to be approximately 5 mJ/mole K² through
measurements of the critical fields and the normal-state susceptibility.

2000 163-1829/4/49(17)/12384(4)/306.00

## Introduction

The chemistry and physics of copper oxides has dominated
superconductivity research for the past several years due to their very
high superconducting transition temperatures. Conversely, research on
intermetallic superconductors has been relatively dormant, as no new
high-T_(c) intermetallic phases have been discovered in some time.[1]
Recently we reported superconductivity at 23 K in an intermetallic
system based on yttrium, palladium, boron and carbon,[2] which is, to
our knowledge, the highest T_(c) ever reported for a bulk intermetallic
material. Superconductivity has also recently been reported for Y-Ni-B-C
(Ref. [3]) and _R_Ni₂B₂C [_R_=Lu (T_(c) = 16.6 K), Y, Tm, Er, and
Ho],[4] and the crystal structure of the latter materials determined.[5]
The layered crystal structure can be considered a derivative of the
ThCr₂Si₂ type: tetrahedrally coordinated NiB₂ layers are separated by
_RC_ rocksalt layers.[6] The presence of the transition metals Ni and
Pd, generally magnetic in intermetallic compounds, makes the occurrence
of superconductivity in these materials particularly interesting. Here
we report our discovery of superconductivity in a related material based
on the 5d transition metal Pt. Superconductivity above 4.2 K is observed
for _R_Pt₂B₂C for _R_=La and Y (T_(c) ≅ 10 K), and Pr (T_(c) ≅ 6 K).
Unlike the case for the _R_Ni₂B₂C compounds, which appear to be
perfectly stoichiometric materials, our initial characterization
suggests that a range of stochiometries is allowed for the _R_Pt₂B₂C
analogs.

## Synthesis and Crystal Structure

Samples were made by arc melting. Starting materials were lanthanide
metal shavings or sublimed dendrites (99.9 or 99.99

Single crystal x-ray diffraction was performed on a small
(0.12×0.08×0.02 mm) single crystal of LaPt₂B₂C on an Enraf-Nonius
diffractometer using graphite monochromated Mo Kα radiation. Lattice
parameters were obtained by determining the absolute 2θ values at high
angles of 35 reflections. A Gaussian integration absorption correction
was applied to the intensity data, and the structure was refined using
the NRCVAX programs.[7] The results are summarized in Table 1, which
presents all structural parameters. The light atom positions are
determined with good precision, but highly precise characterization of B
and C will require the use of neutron diffraction methods. Analysis of
models for various types of nonstoichiometry revealed that the crystal
was stoichiometric LaPt₂B₂C.

## Physical Properties

Superconducting properties of polycrystalline materials were measured on
a commercial superconducting quantum interference device (SQUID)
magnetometer in fields of 5-20 Oe. Figure 1 shows the magnetically
measured superconducting transition for a polycrystalline multiple phase
sample of stoichiometry LaPt₂B₂C in its as-melted state. The sample
cooled in the earth’s field and warmed in 10 Oe showed a magnetic
shielding signal approximately equal (when corrected for demagnetization
effects) to 100

The superconducting transitions for a variety of samples cooled in a
field of 10 Oe are shown in Fig. 2. LaPt₂B₂C and YPt₂B₂C in their
as-melted state are seen to display superconducting $T_{\rm c}$’s near
10.5 K. For YPt₂B₂C, however the transition is quite broad, reflecting
sample inhomogeneity or other imperfection, perhaps poor crystallinity,
which would be consistent with its apparent metastability. PrPt₂B₂C in
its as-melted state displays a magnetically measured $T_{\rm c}$ of
approximately 6 K. The suppression of $T_{\rm c}$ by magnetic rare
earths has also been observed for RNi₂B₂C.[4, 8] More detailed
exploration of the interaction between magnetism and superconductivity
for the RPt₂B₂C superconductors must await improved phase purity.
Finally, the superconducting transition for LaPt_(2.2)B₂C, annealed for
3 days at 1275 ^(∘)C, yielding a phase purity of 90

Figure 2: Field cooled (H = 10 Oe) magnetizations for polycrystalline
samples of RPt₂B₂C as melted, and annealed LaPt_(2.2)B₂C showing the
superconducting transitions.

Figure 1: Temperature-dependent magnetization as a percent of 1/4π for
LaPt₂B₂C showing the superconducting transition. Arrows show data for
warming after cooling in the earth’s field and data for cooling in a
field of 10 Oe.

The temperature-dependent resistivity for a multiple phase as-melted
polycrystalline sample of LaPt₂B₂C is shown in Fig. 3. The room
temperature resistivity is approximately 20 μΩ cm, and just above
$T_{\rm c}$, 4 μΩ cm. These resistivities are comparable to what is seen
for RNi₂B₂C (Ref. [4]) but the detailed behavior of ρ(T) may be affected
by the presence of the impurity phases. The inset shows the region near
T_(c) in detail. The resistive onset of superconductivity is seen to be
near 11 K, with a 10-90

The apparent lower critical field ($H_{\rm c1}^{*}$) values for LaPt₂B₂C
were determined by two field magnetization measurements in the SQUID
magnetometer. $H_{\rm c1}^{*}$ at various temperatures was chosen as the
point of deviation of M(H) from the linear M-H relationship seen at low
fields. The lower critical field $H_{\rm c1}(T)$ was calculated from
$H_{\rm c1}^{*}$ by applying the independently measured corrections for
the demagnetization factor. The upper critical field ($H_{\rm c2}$) was
identified as the field beyond which no significant diamagnetic
contribution due to superconductivity could be found. The results are
summarized in Fig. 4. The temperature dependence of $H_{\rm c1}^{*}$ and
$H_{\rm c2}$ is shown for both as-melted LaPt₂B₂C ($T_{\rm c}\sim$
10.5-11 K) and annealed LaPt_(2.2)B₂C ($T_{\rm c}\sim$ 6.5-7 K). The
measured and derived superconducting properties of these materials are
summarized in Table 2. The density of states at E_(F) is estimated from
the slopes of $H_{\rm c1}$ and $H_{\rm c2}$ using standard thermodynamic
relationships, and assuming that the specific heat anomaly at
$T_{\rm c}$ is given by the weak-coupling value
$\Delta C=1.43\gamma T_{\rm c}$. (An upper bound of the true γ, since
strong coupling would increase ΔC with respect to $T_{\rm c}$.) For both
samples, the Sommerfeld parameter γ is approximately 5 mJ/mol K². These
compounds are type-II superconductors with κ( = λ/ξ) ranging from 15 to
40.

The normal state susceptibility provides another means for estimating
the density of states at E_(F). The measured susceptibility for
as-melted LaPt₂B₂C, −0.15(1) × 10⁻⁴ emu/mole, is the sum of the core
diamagnetism, estimated to be ∼−0.9 to −1.2 × 10⁻⁴ emu/mole (depending
on the value taken for the Pt core diamagnetism) and the Pauli
paramagnetism of the conduction electrons, which therefore is in the
range 0.75-1.05×10⁻⁴ emu/mole. Assuming a standard Wilson ratio, this
yields γ≈ 5 to 8 mJ/mole K², which considering the possible contribution
of impurity phases to the measured susceptibility is in good agreement
with the estimate based on $H_{\rm c1}(T)$ and $H_{\rm c2}(T)$.

## Conclusions

We have found the quaternary intermetallic compounds RPt₂B₂C to be
superconducting above 4.2 K for R = La, Pr, and Y. The phase becomes
metastable and finally unstable for decreasing rare earth size. Through
variation in unit cell dimension and $T_{\rm c}$ it is apparent that
some type of nonstoichiometry is present, which appears to require
access to high-temperature annealing for more detailed study.

Although we have found the phases RM₂B₂C to exist

                              LaPt₂B₂C    LaPt_(2.3)B₂C
  -------------------------- ----------- ---------------
  $T_{\rm c}$                  10.5–11        6.5–7
  $-dH_{\rm c1}/dT$ (Oe/K)       21            10
  $-dH_{\rm c2}/dT$ (Oe/K)      2700          7500
  $-dH_{\rm c}/dT$ (Oe/K)        134           133
  γ (mJ/mole K²)               4.9(2)        4.8(2)
  ξ (Å)                        110(10)        90(8)
  λ (Å)                       1650(150)     3550(150)

Table 2: Measured and derived superconducting properties of as-melted
LaPt₂B₂C and LaPt_(2.2)B₂C annealed at 1275 ^(∘)C for 3 days.

Figure 3: Temperature-dependent resistivity for polycrystalline sample
of LaPt₂B₂C. Inset: detail of the region in the vicinity of $T_{\rm c}$.

for M=Ni (Ref. [4]), Pd (Ref. [9]), and Pt, their superconducting
behavior is quite different with regard to R size. RNi₂B₂C can be made
across the whole R series but is superconducting above 1.5 K only for
the small rare earths. RPd₂B₂C again is stable only for the larger rare
earths, with the stable phases nonsuperconducting. Band structure
calculations place the Fermi level within a transition metal dominated d
band in all cases [10, 11] and so phase stability and superconductivity
may involve additional influences. The experimentally estimated density
of states at the Fermi level for LaPt₂B₂C is approximately one quarter
that observed for RNi₂B₂C (Refs. [12] and [13]) suggesting that its
lower T_(c) is at least in part due to a lower density of states at the
Fermi level. The γ and T_(c) of LaPt₂B₂C are similar to those of TaC and
NbC, considered to be conventional electron-phonon coupled
superconductors. The influence of the transition metal magnetism in
RNi₂B₂C is yet to be fully explored; comparison of the properties of the
3d based RNi₂B₂C and the 5d based RPt₂B₂C superconductors, the latter
expected to show a reduced tendency for local moment magnetism, will
help to clarify whether magnetism plays an important role in the
occurrence of the superconductivity.

## References

* [1] R. Flukiger, in _Concise Encyclopedia of Magnetic and
Superconducting Materials_, edited by J. Evetts (Pergamon, Oxford,
1992), p. 1. * [2] R. J. Cava, H. Takagi, B. Batlogg, H. W. Zandbergen,
J. J. Krajewski, W. F. Peck, Jr., R. B. van Dover, R. J. Felder, T.
Siegrist, K. Mizuhashi, J. O. Lee, H. Eisaki, S. A. Carter, and S.
Uchida, Nature (London) **367**, 146 (1994). * [3] R. Nagarajan, C.
Mazumdar, Z. Hossain, S. K. Dhar, K. V. Golapakrishnan, L. C. Gupta, C.
Godart, B. D. Padalia, and R. Vijayaraghavan, Phys. Rev. Lett. **72**,
274 (1994). * [4] R. J. Cava, H. Takagi, H. W. Zandbergen, J. J.
Krajewski, W. F. Peck, Jr., T. Siegrist, B. Batlogg, R. B. van Dover, R.
J. Felder, K. Mizuhashi, J. O. Lee, H. Eisaki, and S. Uchida, Nature
(London) **367**, 252 (1994). * [5] T. Siegrist, H. W. Zandbergen, R. J.
Cava, J. J. Krajewski, and W. F. Peck, Jr., Nature (London) **367**, 254
(1994). * [6] M. Ishikawa, H. F. Braun, and J. L. Jorda, Phys. Rev. B
**27**, 3092 (1983). * [7] E. J. Gabe, Y. LePage, J.-P. Charland, F. L.
Lee, and P. S. White, J. Appl. Crystallogr. **22**, 348 (1989). * [8] H.
Eisaki, H. Takagi, R. J. Cava, K. Mizuhashi, J. O. Lee, B. Batlogg, J.
J. Krajewski, W. F. Peck, Jr., and S. Uchida (unpublished). * [9] R. J.
Cava, J. J. Krajewski, and W. F. Peck, Jr. (unpublished). * [10] L. F.
Mattheiss, Phys. Rev. B (to be published). * [11] L. F. Mattheiss
(unpublished). * [12] H. Takagi, R. J. Cava, H. Eisaki, J. O. Lee, K.
Mizuhashi, B. Batlogg, S. Uchida, J. J. Krajewski, and W. F. Peck, Jr.
(unpublished). * [13] S. A. Carter, B. Batlogg, R. J. Cava, J. J.
Krajewski, and W. F. Peck, Jr. (unpublished).
