# Broken time-reversal symmetry probed by muon spin relaxation

in the caged type superconductor Lu5Rh6Sn1

A. Bhattacharyya,^(1, 2,) D. T. Adroja,^(1, 2,) J. Quintanilla,^(1, 3)
A. D. Hillier,¹ N. Kase,⁴ A. M. Strydom,^(2, 5) and J. Akimitsu⁴

¹ISIS Facility, Rutherford Appleton Laboratory, Chilton, Didcot Oxon
OX11 0QX, United Kingdom

²Highly Correlated Matter Research Group, Physics Department, University
of Johannesburg, P.O. Box 524, Auckland Park 2006, South Africa

³SEPnet and Hubbard Theory Consortium, School of Physical Sciences,
University of Kent, Canterbury CT2 7NH, United Kingdom

⁴Department of Physics and Mathematics, Aoyama-Gakuin University,
Fuchinobe 5-10-1, Sagamihara, Kanagawa 252-5258, Japan

⁵Max Planck Institute for Chemical Physics of Solids, D-01187 Dresden,
Germany

⁶November 8, 2021; revised manuscript received 19 January 2015;
published 10 February 2015

###### Abstract

The superconducting state of the caged type compound Lu5Rh6Sn1 has been
investigated by using magnetization, heat capacity, and muon spin
relaxation or rotation (μSR) measurements, and the results interpreted
on the basis of the group theoretical classifications of the possible
pairing symmetries and a simple model of the resulting quasiparticle
spectra. Our zero-field μSR measurements clearly reveal the spontaneous
appearance of an internal magnetic field below the transition
temperature, which indicates that the superconducting state in this
material is characterized by broken time-reversal symmetry. Further, the
analysis of the temperature dependence of the magnetic penetration depth
measured using the transverse-field μSR measurements suggests an
isotropic s-wave character for the superconducting gap. This is in
agreement with the heat capacity behavior, and we show that it can be
interpreted in terms of a nonunitary triplet state with point nodes and
an open Fermi surface.

pacs: 71.20.Be, 75.10.Lp, 75.40.Cx + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL
REVIEW B **91**, 060503(R) (2015)

The understanding of the pairing mechanism in unconventional
superconductors in strongly correlated electron systems is a major
theoretical challenge [1, 2]. In conventional "s-wave" superconductors,
only the gauge symmetry is broken. If the pairing is not conventional,
then some other symmetries of the Hamiltonian may be broken below the
superconducting transition. Symmetries which might be broken include the
lattice point and translation group operations and spin rotation
symmetries, in addition to the global gauge symmetry that is responsible
for the Meissner effect, flux quantization, and Josephson effects. The
nature of the broken symmetry in the pairing state is reflected in the
symmetry properties of the order parameter. Superconductors whose
crystal structure features a center of inversion can be classified via
the parity of the Cooper pair state: The spin-singlet pair state (S = 0)
corresponds to an orbital pair wave function ψ(k) ∼ ψ(−k) with even
parity [i.e., Δ(k) = Δ(−k)]; the spin-triplet state (total spin S = 1)
has a superconducting order parameter with odd parity [ψ(k) ∼ −ψ(−k)]
[3]. A few compounds have been reported to be spin-triplet
superconductors, for example, the 4d-electron system Sr₂RuO₄[4, 5, 6],
and the 5f-electron systems UPt₃[7] and UNi₂Al₃[8].

Broken symmetry can modify the physics of a system, which results in
novel and uncommon behavior. Superconductivity is one of the finest
illustrations of a symmetry breaking phenomenon. A particularly
interesting case is time-reversal symmetry (TRS) breaking. This is rare
and has only been observed directly in a few unconventional
superconductors, e.g., Sr₂RuO₄[4, 9], UPt₃[7], (U;Th)Be₁₃[10],
(Pr;La)Os;Ru)₄Sb₁₂[11], PrPt₄ Ge₁₂[12], LaNiC₂[13], LaNiGa₂[14], and
Re₆Zr [15]. A direct manifestation of broken TRS is the appearance of
spontaneous weak magnetic fields, detected in these systems by
zero-field muon spin relaxation (ZF-μSR). ZF-μSR is useful in the search
for TRS breaking fields; The presence of such fields limits the possible
superconducting states and the associated pairing symmetry. For example,
TRS is a prerequisite for any state with a one-dimensional
representation (singlet, triplet, or admixed), and its breaking is
associated with special kinds of states which have a degenerate
representation. The presence of two or more nearly degenerate
superconducting phases naturally leads to a spatially inhomogeneous
order parameter near the resulting domain walls; this creates
spontaneous supercurrents and hence magnetic fields near those regions.
Another possible origin of TRS breaking fields is from intrinsic
magnetic moments due to spin polarization (for spin-triplet pairing) and
the relative angular momentum of the Cooper pairs [2]. Specifically, one
can prove, using group-theoretical arguments [14], that nonunitary
triplet pairing (thought to occur in noncentrosymmetric LaNiC₂[13] and
centrosymmetric LaNiGa₂[14]) leads to a small bulk magnetization M. The
latter acts as a subdominant order parameter of the superconducting
instability, i.e., it grows only linearly with decreasing temperature,
$|M|\sim|T_{\rm c}-T|$[14]. Recently, the size of this magnetization has
been obtained within a nonunitary triplet pairing model of Sr₂RuO₄[16].

The possibility of singlet-triplet pairing in noncentrosymmetric
superconductors makes them prime candidates to exhibit TRS breaking. In
spite of this, it is well established theoretically [17] and
experimentally [18] that singlet-triplet mixing does not necessarily
imply broken TRS. On the other hand, broken TRS has been observed in
Re₆Zr [15], where we expect a strong singlet-triplet admixture. In
contrast, for LaNiC₂, symmetry analysis implies that the superconducting
instability is of a purely triplet type, with a spin-orbit coupling that
is comparatively weak and with mixing of singlet and triplet pairing
being forbidden by symmetry [17].

Caged type structures have received considerable attention due to their
fascinating properties [19]. Three cage-type compounds have been
comprehensively studied over the past decade as "rattling-good"
materials: Ge/Si clathrates, filled skutterudites (RT₄X₁₂), and
β-pyrochlore oxides (AOs₂O₆) [19]. Typically, they possess
three-dimensional skeletons surrounding large atomic cages, inside of
which reasonably small atoms are situated and can "rattle" with large
atomic excursions due to the virtual size inconsistency, weak structural
coupling, and strong electron-phonon (rattler) coupling, leading to a
considerable anharmonicity for the rattling vibration. For instance,
rattling of the A atoms in the OsO₆ cages induces extremely
strong-coupling superconductivity in AOs₂O₆[20]. A strong interplay
between the quadrupolar moment and superconductivity has been pointed
out in RT₄X₁₂[21] and RT₂X₂₀[22]. R₅Rh₆Sn₁₈ (R= Sc, Y, Lu), which can
also be categorized as cage-type compounds, exhibit superconductivity
with a transition temperature T_(c) = 5 K (Sc), 3 K (Y), and 4 K (Lu)
[23]. These compounds have a tetragonal structure with the space group
I4₁/acd and Z = 8, where R occupies two sites of different symmetry
[24]. In this Rapid Communication, we report on ZF-μSR and
transverse-field (TF) μSR measurements for Lu₈Rh₆Sn₁₈. The results
unambiguously reveal the spontaneous appearance of an internal magnetic
field in the superconducting (SC) state, providing clear evidence for
broken time-reversal symmetry.

Single crystals of Lu₈Rh₆Sn₁₈ were grown by a conventional Sn-flux
method in the ratio of Lu:Rh:Sn = 1:2:20. A detailed discussion on the
crystal growth can be found in Ref. [23]. Well defined Laue diffraction
spots indicated the good quality of the single crystals with a typical
size 3 × 3 × 3 mm³. Powder x-ray diffraction patterns were indexed as
the Lu₈Rh₆Sn₁₈ phase with the space group I4₁/acd[23]. The magnetic
measurements were performed using a Quantum Design magnetic property
measurement system (MPMS). Specific heat measurements were performed
down to 500 mK by a relaxation method calorimeter [Quantum Design
physical property measurement system (PPMS) equipped with a ³He
refrigerator].

Muon spin relaxation (μSR) experiments were carried out on the MUSR
spectrometer at the ISIS pulsed muon source of the Rutherford Appleton
Laboratory, UK [25]. The μSR experiments were conducted in zero-field
(ZF), longitudinal-field (LF), and transverse-field (TF) modes. A high
quality single crystal of Lu₈Rh₆Sn₁₈ was mounted on a sample plate made
of 99.995

Magnetization measurements indicate that Lu₈Rh₆Sn₁₈ is a bulk
superconductor with a superconducting transition temperature
T_(c) = 4.0 ± (0.1) K, as shown in Fig. 1(a). Below T_(c), the low-field
χ(T) shows a robust diamagnetic signal. The shielding volume fraction is
∼53

Figures 2(a) and 2(b) show the TF-μSR precession signals above and below
T_(c) with an applied field of 400 G (well above H_(c1)). Below T_(c)
the signal decays with time due to an inhomogeneous field distribution
of the flux-line lattice. The TF-μSR asymmetry spectra were fitted using
an oscillatory decaying Gaussian function,

$$G_{z1}(t) = A_{1}\cos(2\pi\upsilon_{1}t+\phi_{1})\exp\left(\frac{-\sigma^{2} t^{2}}{2}\right)$$
(1)
+A₂cos (2πυ₂t + ϕ₂),

Figure 1: (Color online) (a) The temperature dependence of the dc
magnetic susceptibility of Lu₈Rh₆Sn₁₈. The inset in (a) shows the
isothermal field dependence of magnetization at 2.0 K. (b) shows the
C_(P)/T vs T² curve. The solid line shows the fit (see text). The inset
in (b) shows the temperature dependence of electronic specific heat
C_(c) under zero field after subtracting the lattice contribution for
Lu₈Rh₆Sn₁₈.

where v₁ and v₂ are the frequencies of the muon precession signal and
background signal, respectively, and ϕ_(i) (i = 1, 2) are the initial
phase offsets. The first term gives the total sample relaxation rate σ ;
there are contributions from both the vortex lattice (σ_(sc)) and
nuclear dipole moments (σ_(nm), which is assumed to be constant over the
entire temperature range) below $T_{\rm c}$ [where
$\sigma=\sqrt{(\sigma_{sc}^{2}+\sigma_{nm}^{2})}$]. The contribution
from the vortex lattice σ_(sc) was determined by quadratically
subtracting the background nuclear dipolar relaxation rate obtained from
spectra measured above $T_{\rm c}$. As σ_(sc) is directly related to the
magnetic penetration depth, the superconducting gap can be modeled by

$$\frac{\sigma_{sc}(T)}{\sigma_{sc}(0)}=\frac{\lambda^{-2}(T)}{\lambda^{-2}(0)} =1+2\int_{\Delta(T)}^{\infty}\left(\frac{\delta f}{\delta E}\right)\frac{EdEd \phi}{\sqrt{E^{2}-\Delta(T)^{2}}},$$
(2)

where f = [1 + exp (−E/K_(B)T)]⁻¹ is the Fermi function [29]. The
temperature dependence of the gap is approximated by the expression
$\delta(T/T_{\rm c})=\tanh\{1.82[1.018(T_{\rm c}/T-1)]^{0.51}\}$[30].

Figure 2(c) shows the T dependence of the σ_(sc), which can be directly
related to the superfluid density. From this, the nature of the
superconducting gap can be determined. The data can be well modeled by a
single isotropic gap of 0.75 ± 0.06 meV. This gives a gap of
$2\Delta/k_{B}T_{\rm c}=4.4\pm 0.02$, which is higher than the 3.53
expected for BCS superconductors. This is a further indication of the
strong electron-phonon coupling in the superconducting state. Lu₈Rh₆Sn₁₈
is a type-II superconductor, assuming that roughly all the normal-state
carriers (n_(e)) contribute to the superconductivity (i.e.,
n_(s) ≈ n_(e)), and we have estimated the values of the effective mass
of the quasiparticles m^(*) ≈ 1.32m_(e) and the superconducting electron
density ≈ 2.6 × 10²⁸ m⁻³, respectively. More details on these
calculations can be found in Refs. [31, 32, 33].

The time evolution of the ZF-μSR is shown in Fig. 3(a) for T = 100 mK
and 4.4 K. In these relaxation experiments, any muons stopped on the
silver sample holder give a time independent background. No signature of
precession is visible, ruling out the presence of a sufficiently large
internal magnetic field, as seen in magnetically ordered compounds. The
only possibility is that the muon spin relaxation is due to static,
randomly oriented local fields associated with the nuclear moments at
the muon site. The ZF-μSR data are well described

Figure 4: (Color online) (a) The temperature dependence of the
electronic relaxation rate measured in zero magnetic field of Lu₈Rh₆Sn₁₈
with $T_{\rm c}=4.0$ K is shown. The lines are guides to the eye. The
extra relaxation below $T_{\rm c}$ indicates additional internal
magnetic fields and, consequently, suggests the superconducting state
has broken time-reversal symmetry. (b) The Kubo-Toyabe depolarization
rate $\sigma_{\rm KT}$ vs temperature in zero field shows no temperature
dependence.

Figure 2: (Color online) The transverse-field muon time spectra (one
component) for Lu₈Rh₆Sn₁₈ collected (a) at T = 4.4 K and (b) at T = 0.1
K in a magnetic field H = 400 G. (c) The temperature dependence of
σ_(sc)(T). The line is a fit to the data using an isotropic model [Eq.
(2)].

by the damped Gaussian Kubo-Toyabe (KT) function,

$$G_{z2}(t)=A_{1}G_{\rm KT}(t)e^{-\lambda t}+A_{\rm bg},$$
(3)

where
$G_{\rm KT}(t)=[\frac{1}{3}+\frac{2}{3}(1-\sigma_{\rm KT}^{2}t^{2})e^{\frac{- \frac{1}{2}T^{2}t^{2}}{\lambda}}]$,
λ is the electronic relaxation rate, A₁ is the initial asymmetry, and
$A_{\rm bg}$ is the background. The parameters $\sigma_{\rm KT}$ [Fig.
4(b)], A₁, and $A_{\rm bg}$ are found to be temperature independent. It
is remarkable that λ shows a significant increase [Fig. 4(a)] with an
onset temperature of 4.0 ± 0.1 K, indicating the appearance of a
spontaneous internal field correlated with the superconductivity. This
observation provides unambiguous evidence that TRS is broken in the SC
state of Lu₈Rh₆Sn₁₈. Such a change in λ has only been observed in
superconducting Sr₂RuO₄[4], LaNiC₂[13], and SrPtAs [34]. This increase
in λ can be explained in terms of a signature of a coherent internal
field with a very low frequency, as discussed by Luke _et al._[4] for
Sr₂RuO₄. This suggests that the field distribution is Lorentzian in
nature, similar to Sr₂RuO₄. Considering a similar temperature dependence
of λ in Sr₂RuO₄, LaNiC₂, SrPtAs, and Lu₈Rh₆Sn₁₈, we attribute this
behavior of λ to the TRS breaking below $T_{\rm c}$ in Lu₈Rh₆Sn₁₈. A
longitudinal magnetic field of just 50 G [Fig. 3(b)] removes any
relaxation due to the spontaneous fields and is sufficient to fully
decouple the muons from this relaxation channel. This in turn shows that
the associated magnetic fields are in fact static or quasistatic on the
time scale of the muon precession. These observations further support
the broken TRS in the superconducting state of Lu₈Rh₆Sn₁₈. The increase
in the exponential relaxation below $T_{\rm c}$ is 0.045 μs⁻¹, which
corresponds to a characteristic field strength λ/γ_(μ) = 0.5 G. This is
about the same as we observed in the B phase of UPt₃ and Sr₂RuO₄[7].
Theoretical estimates of the characteristic field strength in Lu₈Rh₆Sn₁₈
are still lacking, however, we expect them to be comparable to those in
Sr₂RuO₄ and UPt₃ as the fields should arise from a similar mechanism.

Our main observation, namely, the breaking of TRS on entering the
superconducting state, has important implications for the symmetry of
pairing and for the quasiparticle spectrum. In short, a standard
symmetry analysis [2, 35] carried out under the assumption of strong
spin-orbit coupling yields two possible pairing states, one with a
d + id character (singlet) and another one nonunitary (triplet). As
shown in Fig. 5, both states are nodal: The singlet has a line node and
two point nodes, and the triplet has two point nodes. At temperatures
$T\ll T_{\rm c}$, the thermodynamics of the singlet state would be
dominated by the line node, yielding, for example, C ∼ T² for the
specific heat. Similarly, the triplet state would be dominated by the
point nodes, which happen to be shallow (a result protected by symmetry)
and therefore also lead to C ∼ T²[36]. However, because of the location
of the nodes in the triplet case, fully gapped behavior may be recovered
depending on the topology of the Fermi surface. Moreover, some limiting
cases of the triplet state correspond to regular, i.e., linear point
nodes (C ∼ T³), as well as to a more exotic state with a nodal surface
(gapless superconductivity, C ∼ T). The allowed pairing states and their
quasiparticle spectra are discussed in detail in the Supplemental
Material [37]. We note that the theoretical analysis presented there is
valid for any superconductor with D_(4h) point group symmetry, strong
spin-orbit coupling, and broken time-reversal symmetry, and may
therefore be applied, for example, to Sr₂RuO₄[38] as well as Lu₈Rh₆Sn₁₈.

In conclusion, we have used both ZF-μSR and TF-μSR to investigate the
superconductivity of the caged type tetragonal system Lu₈Rh₆Sn₁₈. The
ZF-μSR measurements show a spontaneous field appearing at the
superconducting transition temperature. The presence of spontaneous
internal magnetic fields in our measurements suggests that a
time-reversal symmetry breaking mixed symmetry pairing state does occur
below $T_{\rm c}$. TF-μSR measurements yield a magnetic penetration
depth that is exponentially flat at low temperatures, and so our data
can be fit to a single-gap BCS model. Symmetry analysis suggests either
a singlet d + id state with a line node or, alternatively, nonunitary
triplet pairing with point nodes, which may be linear or shallow and can
become fully gapped depending on the Fermi surface topology.

We would like to thank Dr. M. Smidman for help with the μSR data
analysis. A.B. would like to acknowledge FRC of UJ, SA-NRF, and
ISIS-STFC for funding support. D.T.A. and A.D.H. would like to thank
CMPC-STFC, Grant No. CMPC-09108, for financial support. A.M.S. thanks
the SA-NRF (Grant No. 78832) and UJ Research Committee for financial
support. J.Q. gratefully acknowledges financial support from STFC and
from HEFCE through the South-East Physics network (SEPnet). J.Q. thanks
Paul Strange and Phil Whittlesea for useful discussions.

## References

* [1] J. Bardeen, L. N. Cooper, and J. R. Schrieffer, Phys. Rev.
**108**, 1175 (1957). * [2] M. Sigrist and K. Ueda, Rev. Mod. Phys.
**63**, 239 (1991). * [3] C. C. Tsuei and J. R. Kirtley, Rev. Mod. Phys.
**72**, 969 (2000). * [4] G. M. Luke, Y. Fudamoto, K. M. Kojima, M. I.
Larkin, J. Merrin, B. Nachumi, Y. J. Uemura, Y. Maeno, Z. Q. Mao, Y.
Mori _et al._, Nature (London) **394**, 558 (1998). * [5] A. P.
Mackenzie and Y. Maeno, Rev. Mod. Phys. **75**, 657 (2003).

Figure 5: (Color online) Nodal structure of the allowed (a) singlet and
(b) triplet pairing states. See the Supplemental Material [37] for
details.

* [6] Y. Maeno, S. Kittaka, T. Nomura, S. Yonezawa, and K. Ishida, J.
Phys. Soc. Jpn. **81**, 011009 (2012). * [7] G. M. Luke, A. Keren, L. P.
Le, W. D. Wu, Y. J. Uemura, D. A. Bonn, L. Taillefer, and J. D. Garrett,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **71**, 1466 (1993). * [8] K. Ishida, D. Ozaki, T.
Kamatsuka, H. Tou, M. Kyogaku, Y. Kitaoka, N. Tateiwa, N. K. Sato, N.
Aso, C. Geibel, and F. Steglich, Phys. Rev. Lett. **89**, 037002
(2002). * [9] J. Xia, Y. Maeno, P. T. Beyersdorf, M. M. Fejer, and A.
Kapitulnik, Phys. Rev. Lett. **97**, 167002 (2006). * [10] R. H.
Heffner, J. L. Smith, J. O. Willis, P. Birrer, C. Baines, F. N. Gygax,
B. Hitti, E. Lippelt, H. R. Ott, A. Schenck _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**65**, 2816 (1990). * [11] Y. Aoki, A. Tsuchiya, T. Kanayama, S. R.
Saha, H. Sugawara, H. Sato, W. Higemoto, A. Koda, K. Ohishi, K.
Nishiyama _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **91**, 067003 (2003). * [12] A.
Maisuradze, W. Schnelle, R. Khasanov, R. Gumeniuk, M. Nicklas, H.
Rosner, A. Leithe-Jasper, Y. Grin, A. Amato, and P. Thalmeier, Phys.
Rev. B **82**, 024524 (2010). * [13] A. D. Hillier, J. Quintanilla, and
R. Cywinski, Phys. Rev. Lett. **102**, 117007 (2009). * [14] A. D.
Hillier, J. Quintanilla, B. Mazidian, J. F. Annett, and R. Cywinski,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **109**, 097001 (2012). * [15] R. P. Singh, A. D.
Hillier, B. Mazidian, J. Quintanilla, J. F. Annett, D. M. Paul, G.
Balakrishnan, and M. R. Lees, Phys. Rev. Lett. **112**, 107002 (2014). *
[16] K. Miyake, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **83**, 053701 (2014). * [17] J.
Quintanilla, A. D. Hillier, J. F. Annett, and R. Cywinski, Phys. Rev. B
**82**, 174511 (2010). * [18] E. Bauer, C. Sekine, U. Sai, P. Rogl, P.
K. Biswas, and A. Amato, Phys. Rev. B **90**, 054522 (2014). * [19] Z.
Hiroi, J. Yamaura, and K. Hattori, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **81**, 011012
(2012). * [20] Z. Hiroi, S. Yonezawa, Y. Nagao, and J. Yamaura, Phys.
Rev. B **76**, 014523 (2007). * [21] K. Kuwahara, K. Iwasa, M. Kohgi, K.
Kaneko, N. Metoki, S. Raymond, M.-A. A’easson, J. Flouquet, H. Sugawara,
Y. Aoki, and H. Sato, Phys. Rev. Lett. **95**, 107003 (2005). * [22] T.
Onimaru, K. T. Matsumoto, Y. F. Inoue, K. Umeo, T. Sakakibara, Y.
Karaki, M. Kubota, and T. Takabatake, Phys. Rev. Lett. **106**, 177001
(2011). * [23] J. P. Remeka, G. P. Espinosa, A. S. Cooper, H. Barz, Z.
Fisk, L. D. Woolf, H. C. Hamaker, M. B. Maple, G. Shirane, and W.
Thomlinson, Solid State Commun. **34**, 923 (1980). * [24] S. Miraglia,
J. L. Hodeau, F. Bergevin, and M. Marczio, Acta Crystallogr., Sect. B
**43**, 76 (1987). * [25] S. L. Lee, S. H. Kilcoyne, and R. Cywinski,
_Muon Science: Muons in Physics, Chemistry and Materials_ (SUSSP
Publications and IOP Publishing, Bristol, U.K., 1999). * [26] J. E.
Sonier, J. H. Brewer, and R. F. Kiefl, Rev. Mod. Phys. **72**, 769
(2000). * [27] N. Kase, S. Kittaka, T. Sakakibara, and J. Akimitsu, JPS
Conf. Proc. 3, 015042 (2014). * [28] N. Kase, K. Inoue, H. Hayamizu, and
J. Akimitsu, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **80**, S112 (2011). * [29] M. Tinkham,
_Introduction to Superconductivity_ (Krieger, Malabar, FL, 1975). * [30]
A. Carrington and F. Manzano, Physica C **385**, 205 (2003). * [31] A.
D. Hillier and R. Cywinski, Appl. Magn. Reson. **13**, 95 (1997). * [32]
V. K. Anand, D. Britz, A. Bhattacharyya, D. T. Adroja, A. D. Hillier, A.
M. Strydom, W. Kockelmann, B. D. Rainford, and K. A. McEwen, Phys. Rev.
B **90**, 014513 (2014). * [33] D. T. Adroja, A. D. Hillier, J.-G. Park,
E. A. Goremychkin, K. A. McEwen, N. Takeda, R. Osborn, B. D. Rainford,
and R. M. Ibberson, Phys. Rev. B **72**, 184503 (2005). * [34] P. K.
Biswas, H. Luetkens, T. Neupert, T. Sturzer, C. Baines, G. Pascua, A. P.
Schnyder, M. H. Fischer, J. Goryo, M. R. Lees, H. Maeter, F. Bruckner,
H. H. Klauss, M. Nicklas, P. J. Baker, A. D. Hillier, M. Sigrist, A.
Amato, and D. Johrendt, Phys. Rev. B **87**, 180503 (2013). * [35] J. F.
Annett, Adv. Phys. **39**, 83 (1990). * [36] B. Mazidian, J.
Quintanilla, A. D. Hillier, and J. F. Annett, Phys. Rev. B **88**,
224504 (2013). * [37] See Supplemental Material at
http://link.aps.org/supplemental/10.1103/PhysRevB.91.060503 for a
grouptheoretical analysis of the allowed pairing states and their
quasiparticle spectra. * [38] C. N. Veenstra, Z.-H. Zhu, M. Raichle, B.
M. Ludbrook, A. Nicolaou, B. Slomski, G. Landolt, S. Kittaka, Y. Maeno,
J. H. Dil, I. S. Elfimov, M. W. Haverkort, A. Damascelli _et al._, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **112**, 127002 (2014).
