# Thermodynamic properties of Pb determined from pressure-dependent
critical-field measurements

N. Suresh¹ and J. L. Tallon^(1, 2)

¹MacDiarmid Institute for Advanced Materials and Nanotechnology,
Industrial Research Ltd., P.O. Box 31310, Lower Hutt, New Zealand

²Victoria University, P.O. Box 600, Wellington, New Zealand

5 December 2006; published 3 May 2007

###### Abstract

We have carried out extensive low-temperature (1.5−10 K) measurements of
the critical field H_(c) for the element Pb up to a pressure of P = 1.2
GPa. From these data, the electronic entropy, specific heat,
thermal-expansion coefficient, and compressibility are calculated as a
function of temperature, pressure, and magnetic field. The zero-field
data are consistent with direct thermodynamic measurements, and the P
dependence of T_(c) and specific-heat coefficient γ(T, P) allows the
determination of the P dependence of the pairing interaction.

pacs: DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.75.174502 + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL
REVIEW B **75**, 174502 (2007)

The thermodynamic and superconducting properties of the metal Pb have
been extensively studied, including specific heat,[1, 2] isotope
effect,[3, 4] critical field,[5] and thermal expansion.[6] In addition,
the effects of pressure on its superconducting properties have also been
well studied.[7, 8, 9] Subsequently, the use of the pressure-dependent
superconducting transition temperature T_(c)(P) for Pb as a
low-temperature magnetometer has also been proposed.[10, 11, 12] The
above quoted references are only the early ones, and one would assume
that the thermodynamic properties of this material have been
comprehensively investigated.

In the course of investigations into the pressure dependence of the
oxygen isotope effect on T_(c) for the high-T_(c) superconductor
YBa₂Cu₄O₈, we used the metal Pb as an internal pressure calibrant. Using
a clamp cell in a superconducting quantum interference device (SQUID)
magnetometer, we tracked the pressure using the reported pressure
dependence of T_(c) for Pb.[10] Despite the many above-noted early
studies on Pb, we discovered that the pressure P and temperature
dependences of the critical field H_(c) for Pb have not been reported
except at very low pressures (≈0.03 GPa).[7] We therefore carried out a
study of H_(c)(T, P) from 1.5 to 10 K and up to 1.2 GPa from which we
have derived a full set of thermodynamic parameters. This paper presents
a summary of these measurements and the deduced values of the T and P
dependences of the electronic entropy S(T, P), electronic specific-heat
coefficient γ(T, P), thermal-expansion coefficient α(T, P), and
electronic compressibility κ(T, P).

The sample used was a bar of dimensions 1.1×0.93 mm² cross section and
5.58-mm-long, shaped from Puratronic 99.9985

Figure 1 shows the measured T dependence of the magnetic moment M up to
a field of 700 G and at pressures of 0 GPa (1 bar) and 0.5, 0.9, and
1.15 GPa. T_(c) was determined by the extrapolation to zero of the
steepest slope of _M_(_T_). This gives T_(c)(H) which is replotted in
Fig. 2 as H_(c)(T, P) versus T. The data show a progressive decline in
both T_(c) and H_(c)(T) with increasing pressure. We will see that the
combination of these two pressure effects allows access to the pressure
dependence of the density of states N(E_(F)) at the Fermi level E_(F)
and of the pairing interaction.

To fit these data, we expand H_(c)(T) as a power series in T. The
first-order term must be zero, otherwise S_(s) ≠ 0 at _T_=0, and the
third-order term must also be zero to avoid a negative γ at low T. It is
usual, therefore, to adopt an even polynomial of the form[5]

H_(c)(T, P) = H_(c0)(P) + H_(c1)(P)T² + H_(c2)(P)T⁴,
(1)

where, as indicated, each of the coefficients is an independent function
of pressure. As we will see, H_(c) cannot be linear in T because of the
third law requirement that the entropy S → 0 as T → 0. It turns out that
the coefficients are not independent, and it is common to adopt the
"similitude principle" which separates the _P_- and _T_-dependent terms
as follows:[7]

H_(c)(T, P) = H_(c0)(P)f(t) = H_(c0)(P)[1 − αt² + (1 − α)t⁴],
(2)

where t = _T_/_T_. A free fit of Eq. (1) to the data consistently
yielded H_(c2)/H_(c0) very close in value to 1−H_(c1)/H_(c0), consistent
with Eq. (2). We therefore proceeded to fit the data with Eq. (2) for
all subsequent analyses. The fits are shown by the solid curves through
the data shown in Fig. 2. We obtain H_(c0) values of 804.08, 770.88,
739.99, and 729.01 G for P = 0, 0.5, 0.9, and 1.15 GPa, respectively. A
linear fit yields

H_(c0)(P) = (803.72 − 67.028P)G.
(3) This now allows the scaling of all the data by plotting
H_(c)(T, P)/H_(c0)(P) versus t², as shown in Fig. 3. The small departure
from linearity in Fig. 3 reflects the small quartic term (α=0.954 75,
1−α=0.045 25), and the scaled data in Fig. 3 allow a global fit to
determine α that provides an overall consistency in the data fits that
is necessary when second derivatives of H_(c)(T, P) are used to
determine the electronic specific-heat coefficient, thermal-expansion
coefficient, or compressibility.

These parameters may be determined as follows. We restrict our
thermodynamic parameters to the electronic contribution, thus ignoring
the lattice contribution to the specific heat or thermal expansion. The
difference in free energy between the normal and superconducting states
at the same T and P is given by

$$G_{s}(T,P)=G_{n}(T,P)-\frac{1}{2}\mu_{o}H_{c}(T,P)^{2}V_{M},$$
(4)

where μ_(o) is the permeability of free space and V_(M) is the molar
volume. As shown by Shoenberg,[14] the thermodynamic parameters are
obtained by differentiation with respect to T and P, giving

S_(s)(T, P) = S_(n)(T, P) + μ_(o)H_(c)V_(M)(∂H_(c)/∂T)_(P),

γ_(s) = γ_(n) + μ_(o)V_(M)(∂H_(c)/∂T)_(P) − μ_(o)H_(c)V_(M)(∂H_(c)/∂T²)_(P),

V_(s) = V_(n) − μ_(o)H_(c)V_(M)(∂H_(c)/∂P)_(T)

$$\alpha_{s}=\alpha_{n}

  entropy, as shown in Fig. 4(a). The linear slope in the normal state is just the above-determined \(\gamma_{n}(P)\). The entropy in both states must vanish at \(T\)=0. A more rigorous test of the polynomial fits to the data is whether \(S_{s}/T\) also vanishes as \(T\)\(\rightarrow\) 0 and whether the data preserve monotonic systematics in this region. The \(T\) dependence of \(S/T\) is plotted in Fig. 4(b), and this indeed shows a quadratic behavior at low \(T\), which is perfectly systematic with increasing pressure and extrapolates to zero as \(T\)\(\rightarrow\) 0. In a finite external field, the same entropy curves are retraced up to the reduced \(T_{c}(H)\) value and then the entropy jumps discontinuously to the normal-state value, consistent with a first-order phase transition in magnetic field and second order when \(H\)= 0.

The condensation energy \(U_{o}\) is determined from

\[U_{o}=\int_{0}^{T_{c}}[S_{n}(T,P)-S_{s}(T,P)]dT,$$
(7)

from which we obtain the following values: U_(o)= 47, 43.2, 39.8, and
38.6 mJ/mol for P= 0, 0.5, 0.9, and 1.15 GPa, respectively. The
condensation energy reduces with pressure due to the twin effects of
reduced T_(c) and reduced γ_(n).

Turning to the specific-heat coefficient, this is calculated using the
second equation in Eqs. (5) and is shown in Fig. 5 for both the normal
and superconducting states. The entropy balance is evident from the
equal areas above and below the temperature, where γ_(n)= γ_(n), and is
confirmed by the fact shown in Fig. 4(b) that S_(s)/T= γ_(n) at T_(c).
We find that the jump in γ(T, P) at T_(c) is Δγ_(c)=7.85, 7.51, 7.05,
and 7.17 mJ/(mol K²) for P= 0, 0.5, 0.9, and 1.15 GPa, respectively.
Values of Δγ_(c)/γ_(n) are, respectively, 2.33, 2.28, 2.18, and 2.24.
There is a weak pressure dependence here in this ratio that is not
expected with a simple BCS picture, where Δγ_(c)/γ_(n)=1.55. Direct
specific-heat measurements at ambient pressure have obtained various
values for Δγ_(c) such as 7.33±0.3 mJ/(mol K²) (Clement and Quinnell
[19]), 7.96±0.08 mJ/(mol K²) (Shiffman _et al._[20]), and 8.13±0.13
mJ/(mol K²) (Neighbor _et al._[21]), in good agreement with our ambient
result. Combining with the measurement by Horowitz _et al._[1]γ_(n)=
3.13 mJ/(mol K²) gives Δγ_(c)/γ_(n)= 2.34, 2.54, and 2.60, again in good
agreement with our present ambient-pressure result. We note that for the
purely parabolic form H_(c)=H_(c)^(o)(1−t²), then Δγ_(c)/γ_(n)=2
exactly, and so the experimentally observed excess of Δγ_(c)/γ_(n) is a
direct indication of the presence of a higher-order (quartic) term in
the T-dependent critical field.

Finally, Fig. 6(a) shows the calculated difference in volume
thermal-expansion coefficient between the superconducting and normal
states at each pressure and Fig. 6(b)

Figure 4: (Color) The T dependence of (a) the electronic entropy in the
normal state and superconducting state for pressures of 0, 0.5, 0.9, and
1.15 GPa and (b) of S/T.

Figure 5: (Color) The T dependence of the specific-heat coefficient
γ(T, P) in the normal and superconducting states for pressures of 0,
0.5, 0.9, and 1.15 GPa. The small departure from monotonic systematics
in the specific-heat jump for 0.9 GPa reflects the accumulation of
errors in the second derivatives.

Figure 6: (Color) (a) The T dependence of the difference in volume
thermal-expansion coefficient between the superconducting and normal
states for pressures of 0, 0.5, 0.9, and 1.15 GPa. (b) The difference in
molar volume for the same pressures.

shows the difference in molar volume. Given that the absolute molar
volume at T=0 K is 18.26 cm³/mol, these changes in volume seem extremely
small but they are readily measurable. The jumps in thermal-expansion
coefficient at T_(c) in zero field are Δα=1.91 x 10⁻⁷, 1.63 x 10⁻⁷, 1.42
x 10⁻⁷, and 1.29 x 10⁻⁷ K⁻¹ for P=0, 0.5, 0.9, and 1.15 GPa,
respectively. We omit the calculations of the electronic compressibility
because these involve double derivatives with respect to pressure and
here the errors begin to accumulate markedly. Nonetheless, the
discontinuous jumps in isothermal compressibility may be calculated from
the Ehrenfest equation for a second-order transition:

dT_(c)/dP = Δκ/Δα
(8)

Empirically we find that

T_(c)(P) = 7.1863 − 0.3847P + 0.017 69P²,
(9)

so that the absolute jumps in isothermal compressibility at T_(c) in
zero field are Δκ=−7.3 × 10⁻⁸, −6.0 × 10⁻⁸, −5.0 × 10⁻⁸, and −4.4 × 10⁻⁸
GPa⁻¹ for P=0, 0.5, 0.9, and 1.15 GPa, respectively, while the relative
jumps are Δκ/κ₀=−3.56, −2.93, −2.44, and −2.15 ppm. Direct
measurements[22] of the ambient-pressure elastic moduli for Pb in the
superconducting state yield Δκ/κ₀=−4.0 ppm, again in excellent agreement
with our analysis for P=0 GPa.

We conclude by using the above results to estimate the pressure
dependence of key parameters in the BCS model.[23] The condensation
energy is

$$\frac{1}{2}\mu_{0}H_{c0}(P)=\frac{1}{2}N(0)N_{A}\Delta_{0}^{2}=(47.11-7.75P)~{ }\mathrm{mJ/mol},$$
(10)

where P is in gigapascals. The jump in specific heat is given by

γ_(s) − γ_(n) = 10.2k_(B)²N(0)N_(A) = (7.85 − 0.68P) mJ/(mol K²).
(11)

Therefore, we obtain

N(0) = (1.07 − 0.093P) states/atom/eV,
(12)

Δ₀ = (11.1 − 0.432P)K,
(13)

2Δ₀/k_(B)T_(c) = 3.09 + 0.037P.
(14)

This should be compared with the BCS result 2Δ₀/k_(B)T_(c) =3.53 and the
value of Δ₀=15.76 x 0.05 K observed from tunneling,[24] giving
2Δ₀/k_(B)T_(c)=4.37.

If, on the other hand, we determine the DOS from the
nearly-free-electron expression[23]

γ_(n) = (2/3) π²k_(B)²N(0)N_(A) = (3.47 − 0.232P) mJ/(mol/K²),
(15)

then we obtain

N(0) = (0.736 − 0.0492P) states/atom/eV,
(16)

Δ₀ = (13.7 − 0.653P)K,
(17)

2Δ₀/k_(B)T_(c) = 3.72 + 0.007P,
(18)

and the ratio 2Δ₀/k_(B)T_(c) is more or less pressure independent.
Finally, using the BCS expression[23] for T_(c)

$$T_{c}=0.85\Theta_{D}\exp\biggl{(}-\frac{1}{N(0)W}\biggr{)},$$
(19)

where Θ_(D) is the Debye temperature [=96 K for Pb (Ref. [23])] and W is
the pairing interaction, then, using Eq. (12),

W = (0.343 + 0.0167P)eV
(20)

or, using Eq. (16),

W = (0.499 + 0.0143P)eV.
(21)

Here, we have used the Gruneisen coefficient γ_(G)=−2.6 for Pb.[25]

In summary, we have measured the pressure dependence of the
superconducting critical field in Pb to 1.15 GPa using a clamp cell in a
SQUID magnetometer. By using thermodynamic identities, we have
determined the electronic free energy, entropy, specific-heat
coefficient, thermal-expansion coefficient, and compressibility,
including the jumps in these properties at T_(c). The calculated results
match rather well the experimentally observed ambient-pressure data,
where it is available. The present results allow calculation of the
these parameters as pressure-dependent quantities and an estimation of
the pressure dependence of the density of states, superconducting energy
gap, and the pairing interaction.

We acknowledge funding from the New Zealand Marsden Fund, the
International Investment Opportunities Fund, and the MacDiarmid
Institute.

## References

* [1] M. Horowitz, A. A. Silvidi, S. F. Malaker, and J. G. Daunt, Phys.
Rev. **88**, 1182 (1952). * [2] H. V. Culbert, D. E. Farrell, and B. S.
Chandrasekhar, Phys. Rev. B **3**, 794 (1971). * [3] R. R. Hake, D. E.
Mapother, and D. L. Decker, Phys. Rev. **112**, 1522 (1958). * [4] R. W.
Shaw, D. E. Mapother, and D. C. Hopkins, Phys. Rev. **121**, 86
(1961). * [5] D. L. Decker, D. E. Mapother, and R. W. Shaw, Phys. Rev.
**112**, 1888 (1958). * [6] K. Andres, J. L. Olsen, and H. Rohrer, IBM
J. Res. Dev. **6**, 84 (1962). * [7] M. Garfinkel and D. E. Mapother,
Phys. Rev. **122**, 459 (1961). * [8] N. B. Brandt and N. I. Ginzburg,
Sov. Phys. Usp. **8**, 202 (1965). * [9] H. H. Hansen, R. L. Pompi, and
T. M. Wu, Phys. Rev. B **8**, 1042 (1973). * [10] A. Eiling and J. S.
Schilling, J. Phys. F: Met. Phys. **11**, 623 (1981).

* [11] B. Bireckoven and J. Wittig, J. Phys. E **21**, 841 (1988). *
[12] J. Thomasson, C. Ayache, I. L. Spain, and M. Villedieu, J. Appl.
Phys. **68**, 5933 (1990). * [13] I. R. Walker, Rev. Sci. Instrum.
**70**, 3402 (1999). * [14] D. Shoenberg, _Superconductivity_ (Cambridge
University Press, Cambridge, 1952), p. 56. * [15] D. L. Waldorf and G.
A. Alers, J. Appl. Phys. **33**, 3266 (1962). * [16] G. K. White,
Philos. Mag. **7**, 271 (1962). * [17] J. L. Olsen and H. Rohrer, Helv.
Phys. Acta **30**, 49 (1957). * [18] H. R. Ott, J. Low Temp. Phys.
**9**, 331 (1972). * [19] J. R. Clement and E. H. Quinnell, Phys. Rev.
**85**, 502 (1952). * [20] C. A. Shiffman, J. F. Cochran, and M. Garber,
J. Phys. Chem. Solids **24**, 1369 (1963). * [21] J. E. Neighbor, J. F.
Cochran, and C. A. Shiffman, Phys. Rev. **155**, 384 (1967). * [22] G.
A. Alers and D. L. Waldorf, Phys. Rev. Lett. **6**, 677 (1961). * [23]
R. Meservey and B. B. Schwartz, in _Superconductivity_, edited by R. D.
Parks (Dekker, New York, 1969), Vol. 1, p. 117. * [24] W. L. McMillan
and J. M. Rowell, Phys. Rev. Lett. **14**, 108 (1965). * [25] M.
Hasegawa, J. Phys. F: Met. Phys. **10**, 225 (1980).
