# Doping-enhanced antiferromagnetism in Ca_(1 − x)La_(x)FeAs₂

Shinji Kawasaki,¹ Tomosuke Mabuchi,¹ Satoki Maeda,¹ Tomoki Adachi,¹
Tsuku Mizukami,¹ Kazutaka Kudo,¹ Minoru Nohara,¹ Guo-qing Zheng^(1, 2)

¹Department of Physics, and Research Center of New Functional Materials
for Energy Production, Storage and Transport, Okayama University,
Okayama 700-8530, Japan

²Institute of Physics and Beijing National Laboratory for Condensed
Matter Physics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100190, China

25 May 201525 May 201529 October 201529 October 201529 October 201529
May 201529 October 201529 May 201529 October 201529 May 201529 October
201529 May 201529 October 201529 May 201529 October 201529 May 2
external magnetic field, K is the Knight shift, and I is the nuclear
spin. NQR frequency v₀ and asymmetry parameter η are defined as
$v_{0}=\frac{3\chi\rho V_{z}}{2(Z-1)\eta}$,
$\eta=\frac{V_{z}-V_{z}}{V_{z}}$, with Q and V_(ωβ) being the nuclear
quadrupole moment and the electric field gradient (EFG) tensor at the As
site, respectively [29]. As seen in the inset to Fig. 1(a), the ⁷⁵As-NMR
center transition consists of two peaks which correspond to crystallites
with ϑ = 41.8^(∘) and 90^(∘), where θ is the angle between H₀ and the
principal axis of the EFG along the c axis [29]. Theoretically, the peak
intensity of θ = 41.8^(∘) is higher than that of θ = 90^(∘) for a
complete powder pattern [29]. However, we found the opposite, which
indicates that about 50

Figures 1(b) and 1(c) show the NQR spectra. As summarized in Fig. 1(d),
$v_{0}^{\rm(Al)}$ increases with increasing doping, but
$v_{0}^{\rm Au(Z)}$ remains about the same. Since the lattice parameters
do not change with doping [24], the origin of the doping dependence of
v₀ should be the EFG generated by the doped electrons in the Fe₂As₂
layer. Hence, we conclude that As(1) originates from the Fe₂As₂ layer
and As(2) from the (Ca,La)₂As₂ layer. The doping dependence of
$v_{0}^{\rm Au(I)}$ is in good agreement with that reported in
LaFeAsO_(1 − x)F_(x)[16].

To investigate the evolution of the normal-state electronic property, we
measured the temperature dependence of the ⁷⁵As-NMR center peak and T₁
for As(1). As seen in Fig. 2, the ⁷⁵As-NMR spectra unexpectedly became
broad at low temperatures for all doping levels. Concomitantly, 1/T₁
divided by temperature (1/T₁T) showed a peak at T = 62, 63, and 70 K for
x = 0.15, 0.19, and 0.24, respectively. This is consistent with the
critical slowing down behavior across $T_{\rm N}$ as observed in
BaFe₂As₂[30] and LaFeAsO_(0.97)F_(0.03)[16], suggesting that the origin
of the broadening of the NMR spectra is due to the appearance of the
internal magnetic field $H_{\rm int}$ at the As site.

In order to further confirm the origin of the spectrum broadening, we
measured the evolution of the NQR spectrum and compared it with NMR
result. Figure 3(a) shows the ⁷⁵As-NQR spectrum obtained at T = 70 and
4.2 K for x = 0.24. Figure 3(b) shows the ⁷⁵As-NMR spectrum at T = 10 K
for x = 0.24 chosen from Fig. 2(c). As was observed in the NMR, the
⁷⁵As-NQR spectrum also became broad at low temperatures. Figure 3(c)
shows the temperature dependence of the full width at the half maximum
(FWHM) of the ⁷⁵As-NQR spectrum. To obtain $H_{\rm int}(T)$ and
$T_{\rm N}$, we employed the following simulation. In a magnetically
ordered state, the NQR Hamiltonian is expressed as
$T_{\rm AFM}=-75\gamma\hbar\tilde{I}\cdot\tilde{H}_{\rm int}+\mathcal{H}_{\rm Q}$.
As a first step, we assumed $\tilde{H}_{\rm int}=(0,0,H_{\rm int})$, as
was found in the underdoped ironicide [30]. As shown schematically in
the inset to Fig. 3(a), the energy levels of the nuclear spins change
and the ⁷⁵As-NQR spectrum splits into two peaks at
$\nu^{\rm AFM}=v_{0}\pm\,^{75}\nu\,H_{\rm int}$ below $T_{\rm N}$. The
NQR spectrum at T = 4.2 K can be reproduced by a sum of the two
Lorentzian

Figure 2: (Color online) Temperature dependence of the ⁷⁵As-NMR center
peak for As(1) for (a) x = 0.15, (b) 0.19, and (c) 0.24, respectively.
(d) Temperature dependence of 1/T₁T. The solid and dotted arrows
indicate $T_{\rm N}$ and T_(c)(H).

Figure 1: (Color online) (a) NMR spectrum for x = 0.19. The inset shows
the center peak for As(1). (b), (c) x dependence of the ⁷⁵As-NQR spectra
for As(1) and As(2). The solid lines are the results of Lorentzian
fitting to obtain the peak position, $v_{0}^{\rm Au(1,2)}$. (d) x
dependence of $v_{0}^{\rm Au(1,2)}$. The solid lines are a guide to the
eye.

curves centered at v^(AFM). This indicates that the $H_{\rm int}$ below
$T_{\rm N}$ is spatially uniform. On the other hand, if we assume the
$\vec{H}_{\rm int}$ is parallel to the ab plane, it can also reproduce
the NQR spectrum with $H_{\rm int}=0.05$ T [28]. However, as seen in
Fig. 3(b), the $\vec{H}_{\rm int}\parallel ab$ plane, which generates an
in-plane internal field of $\pm H_{\rm int}$ at the As site, is
inconsistent with the NMR spectrum. Rather, it seems consistent with the
$\vec{H}_{\rm int}\parallel c$ direction, which just shifts the peak
position, and makes the NMR spectrum width broad [13]. And hence,
$\vec{H}_{\rm int}=(0,0,H_{\rm int})$ below $T_{\rm N}$ is the most
plausible in this case. The obtained $H_{\rm int}(T)$ is plotted in Fig.
3(c). The solid curve is a fit to the mean-field theory that gives a
$T_{\rm N}=70$ K. This is exactly the temperature at which 1/T₁T shows a
peak. From these results, we conclude that the peak in 1/T₁T is due to
the onset of an antiferromagnetic order.

As seen in Fig. 2(d), the antiferromagnetic order occurs in the highly
electron-doped region (x ≥ 0.15) in the present system, while the
antiferromagnetic phase is completely suppressed in
LnFeAsO_(1 − x)F_(x)[2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8] and
Ba(Fe_(1 − x)TM_(x))₂As₂[10, 11, 12] at a much lower doping
concentration. Notably, $T_{\rm N}$ increases with increasing doping.
The mechanism of the increase of $T_{\rm N}$ by doping is unclear at the
present stage. One possibility is that the nesting between enlarged
Fermi surfaces due to electron doping [31, 32] can act to enhance the
antiferromagnetism [33].

Next, we discuss the possible magnetic structure below $T_{\rm N}$.
According to a previous report [30], the $\vec{H}_{\rm int}$ at the As
site can be written as the sum of the contribution from the four
nearest-neighbor Fe sites as
$\vec{H}_{\rm int}=\sum_{i=1}^{4}\vec{B}_{i}\cdot\vec{m}_{i}$, where
B⃗_(i) is the hyperfine coupling tensor consisting of the components
B_(μβ) ({α, β}=a, b, c) between the As nucleus and ith Fe site, and
m⃗ = (m_(a), m_(b), m_(c)) is the magnetic moment at the Fe site. First,
we compare with the ordering vector q⃗ = (π, 0, 0) or (π, 0, π) found in
the underdoped iron pnictides [30]. In this case, m⃗ produces
$\vec{H}_{\rm int}=4B_{dc}(m_{c},0,m_{a})$. Using B_(ac) = 0.43
Tμ_(B)[30], we obtain m_(a) ∼ 0.03μ_(B), which yields $H_{\rm int}=0.05$
T. However, this value would be one order of magnitude smaller than that
observed in LaFeAsO ($m_{\rm Fe}=0.36\mu_{B}$, $T_{\rm N}=137$ K) [34]
and BaFe₂As₂ ($m_{\rm Fe}=0.87\mu_{B}$, $T_{\rm N}=143$ K) [35]. Below
we consider other possibilities. The first one is q⃗ = (π, π, 0) or
(π, π, π). In this case, $\vec{H}_{\rm int}$ is perpendicular to the c
direction [30] and can be ruled out. The second one is q⃗ = (0, π, 0) or
(0, π, π), which produces $\vec{H}_{\rm int}=4B_{bc}(0,m_{c},m_{b})$.
This type of magnetic structure has recently been discovered in
LaFeAsO_(0.40)H_(0.51) with m_(a) = 1.21μ_(B) and $T_{\rm N}=89$ K [21].
Obviously, this does not produce $H_{\rm int}$ at the As site. The
observed spatially distributed $H_{\rm int}$[22] may be because this
antiferromagnetic state is accompanied by a structural transition, which
causes a displacement of As and Fe atoms about 0.13 A in the a direction
[21]. Our system is similar to this situation. The As atom in
Ca_(1 − x)La_(x)FeAs₂ also exhibits a small displacement of 0.03 A in
the a direction originating from its monoclinic crystal structure [23].
Therefore, although a further quantitative understanding is difficult,
this may explain the present results. In fact, such an order was
predicted by the band calculation for CaFeAs₂[36]. We call for neutron
diffraction measurements to determine the magnetic structure for
Ca_(1 − x)La_(x)FeAs₂.

Figure 4 summarizes the phase diagram of Ca_(1 − x)La_(x)FeAs₂. We find
that antiferromagnetism in Ca_(1 − x)La_(x)FeAs₂ is robust against
doping. Furthermore, $T_{\rm N}$ increases with increasing doping. This
phase diagram is qualitatively similar to the heavily doped
LaFeAsO_(1 − x)H_(x)[20, 21]. However, there are two fundamental
differences between them. First, the heavily doped LaFeAsO_(1 − x)H_(x)
shows a structural phase transition above $T_{\rm N}$[21], but it has
not been observed in Ca_(1 − x)La_(x)FeAs₂[23]. Second, the situation
regarding the relationship between antiferromagnetism and
superconductivity is completely different. In heavily doped
LaFeAsO_(1 − x)H_(x), the antiferromagnetic phase and superconductivity
are completely segregated [22], but they coexist microscopically in
Ca_(1 − x)La_(x)FeAs₂, as elaborated below.

Figure 5 shows the temperature dependence of 1/T₁[28]. For all La
concentration, 1/T₁ decreases rapidly below $T_{\rm N}$, in accordance
with the uniform $H_{\rm int}(T)$ (see Fig. 3). As shown in the inset to
Fig. 5, the bulk nature of superconductivity for x = 0.15 and 0.19 is
confirmed by the large superconducting shielding fractions and further
assured by the distinct reduction of 1/T₁ below $T_{\rm c}$. These
results indicate that antiferromagnetism and superconductivity coexist
microscopically for

Figure 3: (Color online) (a) The ⁷⁵As-NQR spectrum for As(1) above and
below $T_{\rm N}$ for x = 0.24. The dotted and solid curves are the
results of fitting (see text). The inset shows a schematic view of the
NQR transition levels. (b) The ⁷⁵As-NMR spectrum for As(1) below
$T_{\rm N}$ for x = 0.24. The dotted line indicates the θ = 90’ peak
position (f, l). The solid curve is a sum of the two Lorentzian curves
centered at $f_{\perp}\pm^{75}\gamma H_{\rm int}$. (c) Temperature
dependences of the FWHM of the ⁷⁵As(1)-NQR spectrum and $H_{\rm int}$
for x = 0.24. The dotted curve and solid horizontal line on FWHM(T) are
guides to the eye. The solid line on $H_{\rm int}(T)$ is the mean-field
fit. The dashed vertical line indicates $T_{\rm N}$.

x = 0.15 and 0.19. Furthermore, 1/T₁ shows 1/T₁T= const behavior well
below $T_{\rm N}$ for x = 0.24, suggesting that the heavily doped
Ca_(1 − x)La_(x)FeAs₂ is an antiferromagnetic metal. For x = 0.15 and
0.19, 1/T₁ decreases rapidly again below $T_{\rm c}(H)$, as was found
previously [14; 15; 16; 17]. It is worth noting that 1/T₁ at low
temperatures in the superconducting state becomes proportional to T. In
the superconducting state coexisting with an antiferromagnetic order,
the spin rotation is broken so that a spin-triplet component can be
mixed [37]. Our observation may be a reflection of such a phenomenon,
since the spin-triplet state will have nodes in the gap function. More
work in this regard is needed.

In summary, we have presented systematic NMR/NQR studies on the La-doped
iron pnictide Ca_(1 − x)La_(x)FeAs₂. We find doping-enhanced
antiferromagnetism that microscopically coexists with superconductivity.
Since the lattice parameters in Ca_(1 − x)La_(x)FeAs₂ do not change by
doping, the unusual evolution of antiferromagnetism and
superconductivity compared with other iron pnictides originates purely
from doped carriers. The present results provide further opportunities
and different perspectives for understanding the role of doped carriers
and the mechanism of high-$T_{\rm c}$ superconductivity in iron
pnictides.

We thank S. Onari for discussions. This work was supported in part by
research grants from MEXT (No. 22103004, No. 25400372, No. 25400374, No.
26287082, No. 15H01047, and No. 15H05852).

## References

* (1) P. A. Lee, N. Nagaosa, and X.-G. Wen, Doping a Mott insulator:
Physics of high-temperature superconductivity, Rev. Mod. Phys. **78**,
17 (2006). * (2) Y. Kamihara, T. Watanabe, M. Hirano, and H. Hosono,
Iron based layered superconductor La[O_(1 − x)F_(x)]FeAs (x = 0.05-0.12)
with T_(c) = 26 K, J. Am. Chem. Soc. **130**, 3296 (2008). * (3) Z.-A.
Ren, J. Yang, W. Lu, W. Yi, X.-L. Shen, Z.-C. Li, G.-C. Che, X.-L. Dong,
L.-L. Sun, F. Zhou, and Z.-X. Zhao, Superconductivity in the iron-based
F-doped layered quaternary compound Nd[O_(1 − x),F_(x)]FeAs, Europhys.
Lett. **82**, 57002 (2008). * (4) Z.-A. Ren, J. Yang, W. Lu, W. Yi,
G.-C. Che, X.-L. Dong, L.-L. Sun, and Z.-X. Zhao, Superconductivity at
52 K in iron based F doped layered quaternary compound
Pr[O_(1 − x),F_(x)]FeAs, Mater. Res. Innovations **12**, 105 (2008). *
(5) C. Wang, L. Li, S. Chi, Z. Zhu, Z. Ren, Y. Li, Y. Wang, X. Lin, Y.
Luo, S. Jiang, X. Xu, G. Cao and Z. Xu, Thorium-doping-induced
superconductivity up to 56 K in Gd_(1 − x)Th_(x)FeAsO, Europhys. Lett.
**83**, 67006 (2008). * (6) Z.-A. Ren, W. Lu, J. Yang, W. Yi, X.-L.
Shen, Z.-C. Li, G.-C. Che, X.-L. Dong, L.-L. Sun, F. Zhou, and Z.-X.
Zhao, Superconductivity at 55 K in iron-based F-doped layered quaternary
compound Sm[O_(1 − x),F_(x)]FeAs, Chin. Phys. Lett. **25**, 2215
(2008). * (7) G. F. Chen, Z. Li, D. Wu, G. Li, W. Z. Hu, J. Dong, P.
Zheng, J. L. Luo, and N. L. Wang, Superconductivity at 41 K and Its
Competition with Spin-Density-Wave Instability in Layered
CeO_(1 − x),F_(x)FeAs, Phys. Rev. Lett. **100**, 247002 (2008). * (8)
J.-W. G. Bos, G. B. S. Penny, J. A. Rodgers, D. A. Sokolov, A. D.
Huxley, and J. P. Attfield, High pressure synthesis of late rare earth
RFeAs(O,F) superconductors; R= Tb and Dy, Chem. Commun. **31**, 3634
(2008). * (9) M. Rotter, M. Pangerl, M. Tegel, and D. Johrendt,
Superconductivity and crystal structures of (Ba_(1 − x)K_(x))Fe₂As₂
(x = 0-1), Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. **47**, 7949 (2008). * (10) X. F.
Wang, T. Wu, G. Wu, R. H. Liu, H. Chen, Y. L. Xie, and X. H. Chen, The
peculiar physical properties and phase diagram

Figure 4: (Color online) Phase diagram for Ca_(1 − x)La_(x)FeAs₂. AFM
and SC denote the antiferromagnetically ordered metal and
superconducting state. Open circles are from the magnetization results
for another batch of samples [24].

Figure 5: (Color online) Temperature dependence of 1/T₁. The solid and
dotted arrows indicate T_(N) and T_(c)(H), respectively. The dashed
lines indicate the relation 1/T₁T= const. The inset shows the
temperature dependences of the magnetization.

of BaFe_(2 − x)Co_(x)As₂ single crystals, New J. Phys. **11**, 045003
(2009). * [11] L. J. Li, Y. K. Luo, Q. B. Wang, H. Chen, Z. Ren, Q. Tao,
Y. K. Li, X. Lin, M. He, Z. W. Zhu, G. H. Cao, and Z. A. Xu,
Superconductivity induced by Ni doping in BaFe₂As₂ single crystals, New
J. Phys. **11**, 025008 (2009). * [12] P. C. Canfield, S. L. Bud’ko, Ni
Ni, J. Q. Yan, and A. Kracher, Decoupling of the superconducting and
magnetic/structural phase transitions in electron-doped BaFe₂As₂, Phys.
Rev. B **80**, 060501(R) (2009). * [13] Z. Li, R. Zhou, Y. Liu, D. L.
Sun, J. Yang, C. T. Lin, and G.-q. Zheng, Microscopic coexistence of
antiferromagnetic order and superconductivity in Ba_(0.7)K_(0.23)Fe₂As₂,
Phys. Rev. B **86**, 180501(R) (2012). * [14] R. Zhou, Z. Li, J. Yang,
D. L. Sun, C. T. Lin, and G.-Q. Zheng, Quantum criticality in
electron-doped BaFe_(2 − x)Ni_(x)As₂, Nat. Commun. **4**, 2265 (2013). *
[15] F. L. Ning, K. Ahilan, T. Imai, A. S. Sefat, M. A. McGuire, B. C.
Sales, D. Mandrus, P. Cheng, B. Shen, and H.-H. Wen, Contrasting Spin
Dynamics Between Underdoped and Overdoped Ba(Fe_(1 − x)Co_(x))₂As₂,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **104**, 037001 (2010). * [16] T. Oka, Z. Li, S.
Kawasaki, G. F. Chen, N. L. Wang, and G.-Q. Zheng, Antiferromagnetic
Spin Fluctuations Above the Dome Shaped and Full-Gap Superconducting
States of LaFeAsO_(1 − x)F_(x) Revealed by ⁷⁵As-Nuclear Quadrupole
Resonance, Phys. Rev. Lett. **108**, 047001 (2012). * [17] M. Hirano, Y.
Yamada, T. Saito, R. Nagashima, T. Konishi, T. Toriyama, Y. Ohta, H.
Fukazawa, Y. Kohori, Y. Furukawa, K. Kihou, C. Lee, A. Iyo, and H.
Eisaki, Potential antiferromagnetic fluctuations in hole-doped
iron-pnictide superconductor Ba_(1 − x)K_(x)Fe_(2 − x)S₄ studied by ⁷⁵As
nuclear magnetic, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **81**, 054704 (2012). * [18] S.
Iimura, S. Matsuishi, H. Sato, T. Hanna, Y. Muraba, S. W. Kim, J. E.
Kim, M. Takata, and H. Hosono, Two-dome structure in electron-doped iron
arsenide superconductors, Nat. Commun. **3**, 943 (2012). * [19] J.
Yang, R. Zhou, L. L. Wei, H. X. Yang, J. Q. Li, Z. X. Zhao, and G.-Q.
Zheng, New superconductivity dome in LaFeAsO_(1 − x)F_(x) accompanied by
structural transition, Chin. Phys. Lett. **32**, 107401 (2015). * [20]
N. Fujiwara, S. Tsutsumi, S. Iimura, S. Matsuishi, H. Hosono, Y.
Yamakawa, and H. Kontani, Detection of Antiferromagnetic Ordering in
Heavily Doped LaFeAsO_(1 − x)H_(x), Pnictide Superconductors Using
Nuclear-Magnetic-Resonance Techniques, Phys. Rev. Lett. **111**, 097002
(2013). * [21] M. Hiraishi, S. Iimura, K. M. Kojima, J. Yamaura, H.
Hiraka, K. Ikeda, P. Miao, Y. Ishikawa, S. Torii, M. Miyazaki, I.
Yamauchi, A. Koda, K. Ishii, M. Yoshida, J. Mizuki, R. Kadono, R. Kumai,
T. Kamiyama, T. Otomo, Y. Murakami, S. Matsuishi, and H. Hosono,
Bipartite magnetic parent phases in the iron oxypnictide superconductor,
Nat. Phys. **10**, 300 (2014). * [22] R. Sakurai, N. Fujiwara, N.
Kawaguchi, Y. Yamakawa, H. Kontani, S. Iimura, S. Matsuishi, and H.
Hosono, Quantum critical behavior in heavily doped LaFeAsO_(1 − x)H_(x)
pnictide superconductors analyzed using nuclear magnetic resonance,
Phys. Rev. B **91**, 064509 (2015). * [23] N. Katayama, K. Kudo, S.
Onari, T. Mizukami, K. Sugawara, Y. Sugiyama, Y. Kitahama, K. Iba, K.
Fujimura, N. Nishimoto, M. Nohara, and H. Sawa, Superconductivity in
Ca_(1 − x)La_(x)FeAs₂: A novel 112-type iron pnictide with arsenic
zigzag bonds, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **82**, 123702 (2013). * [24] K. Kudo,
T. Mizukami, Y. Kitahama, D. Mitsuoka, K. Iba, K. Fujimura, N.
Nishimoto, Y. Hiraoka, and M. Nohara, Enhanced superconductivity up to
43 K by P/Sb doping of Ca_(1 − x)La_(x)FeAs₂, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **83**,
025001 (2014). * [25] K. Kudo, Y. Kitahama, K. Fujimura, T. Mizukami, H.
Ota, and M. Nohara, Superconducting transition temperatures of up to 47
K from simultaneous rare-earth element and antimony doping of 112-type
CaFeAs₂, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **83**, 093705 (2014). * [26] H. Yakita, H.
Ogino, T. Okada, A. Yamamoto, K. Kishio, T. Tobei, Y. Ikuhara, Y. Gotoh,
H. Fujihisa, K. Kataoka, H. Eisaki, and J. Shimoyama, A new layered iron
arsenide superconductor: (Ca_(x)Pt)/FeAs₂, J. Am. Chem. Soc. **136**,
846 (2014). * [27] NM/NQR measurements were carried out by using a
phase-coherent spectrometer and at a fixed magnetic field of H = 12.951
T. Typical pulse sequence 10 μs_(x)∼−7-20 μs with r = 25μs is used to
obtain spin echo. * [28] See Supplemental Material at
http://link.aps.org/supplemental/10.1103/PhysRevB.92.180508 for the
recovery curves to obtain T₁ and the result of simulation with
$\tilde{H}_{\rm{in}}\parallel ab$ plane. * [29] A. Abragam, _The
Principles of Nuclear Magnetism_ (Oxford University Press, London,
1961). * [30] K. Kitagawa, N. Katayama, K. Ohgushi, M. Yoshida, and M.
Takigawa, Commensurate itinerant antiferromagnetism in BaFeAs_(2 − x)S₂:
⁷⁵As-NMR studies on a self-flux grown single crystal, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn.
**77**, 114709 (2008). * [31] X. Liu, D. Liu, L. Zhao, Q. Guo, Q. Mu, D.
Chen, B. Shen, H. Yi, J. Huang, J. He, Y. Peng, Y. Liu, S. He, G. Liu,
X. Dong, J. Zhang, C. Chen, Z. Xu, Z. Ren, and X. J. Zhou, Fermi surface
and band structure of (Ca_(x)La_(x)FeAs₂ superconductor
BaGe_(2 − x)-resolved photoemission spectroscopy, Chin. Phys. Lett.
**30**, 127402 (2013). * [32] M. Y. Li, Z. T. Liu, W. Zhou, H. F. Yang,
D. W. Shen, W. Li, J. Jiang, X. H. Niu, B. P. Xie, Y. Sun, C. C. Fan, Q.
Yao, J. S. Liu, Z. X. Shi, and X. M. Xie, Significant contribution of As
4p orbitals to the low-lying electronic structure of the 112-type
iron-based superconductor Ca_(0.5)La_(0.1)FeAs₂, Phys. Rev. B **91**,
045112 (2015). * [33] S. Onari, Y. Yamakawa, and H. Kontani, High-T_(c)
Superconductivity Near the Anion Height Instability in Fe-Based
Superconductors: Analysis of LaFeAsO_(1 − x)H_(x), Phys. Rev. Lett.
**112**, 187001 (2014). * [34] C. de la Cruz, Q. Huang, J. W. Lynn, J.
Li, W. Ratcliff II, J. L. Zarestky, H. A. Mook, G. F. Chen, J. L. Luo,
N. L. Wang, and P. Dai, Magnetic order close to superconductivity in the
iron-based layered LaO_(1 − x)F_(x)FeAs systems, Nature (London)
**453**, 899 (2008). * [35] Q. Huang, Y. Qiu, W. Bao, M. A. Green, J. W.
Lynn, Y. C. Gasparovic, T. Wo, G. Wu, and X. H. Chen,
Neutron-Diffraction Measurements of Magnetic Order and a Structural
Transition in the Parent BaFe₂As₂ Compound of FeAs-Based
High-Temperature Superconductors, Phys. Rev. Lett. **101**, 257003
(2008). * [36] X. Wu, C. Le, Y. Liang, S. Qin, H. Fan, and J. Hu, Effect
of As-chain layers in CaFeAs₂, Phys. Rev. B **89**, 205102 (2014). *
[37] A. Hinojosa, R. M. Fernandes, and A. V. Chubukov, Time-Reversal
Symmetry Breaking Superconductivity in the Coexistence Phase with
Magnetism in Fe Pnictides, Phys. Rev. Lett. **113**, 167001 (2014).
