Variation of the in-plane penetration depth λ_(ab) as a function of
doping in La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO_(4 ± δ) thin films on SrTiO₃: Implications
for the overdoped state

J.-P. Locquet

IBM Research Division, Zurich Research Laboratory, 8803 Ruschlikon,
Switzerland

Y. Jaccard

IBM Research Division, Zurich Research Laboratory, 8803 Ruschlikon,
Switzerland

and Institut de Physique, Universite de Neuchatel, 2000 Neuchatel,
Switzerland

A. Cretton and E. J. Williams

IBM Research Division, Zurich Research Laboratory, 8803 Ruschlikon,
Switzerland

and Departement de Physique de la Matiere Condensee, Universite de
Geneve, 1211 Geneve, Switzerland

F. Arrouy

IBM Research Division, Zurich Research Laboratory, 8803 Ruschlikon,
Switzerland

and Institut of Inorganic Chemistry, University of Zurich, 8057 Zurich,
Switzerland

E. Machler and T. Schneider

IBM Research Division, Zurich Research Laboratory, 8803 Ruschlikon,
Switzerland

O. Fischer

Departement de Physique de la Matiere Condensee, Universite de Geneve,
1211 Geneve, Switzerland

P. Martinoli

Institut de Physique, Universite de Neuchatel, 2000 Neuchatel,
Switzerland

2 April 1996

###### Abstract

Normal-state properties, such as the resistivity ρ_(ab) and the Hall
coefficient R_(H), structural properties, such as the c axis and
in-plane lattice parameters, and superconductive properties, such as the
critical temperature T_(c), the penetration depth λ_(ab), and the
thermal activation energy for flux flow Δ U, are reported for c-axis
La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO_(4 ± δ) films. These parameters have been measured
as a function of doping in the range from heavily underdoped to heavily
overdoped. The structural data indicate a 0.3

## 1 Introduction

It is of fundamental importance to establish the doping (_x_) dependence
of the superconducting properties in cuprate superconductors. Of
particular relevance are the phase-transition line T_(c)(x), which
distinguishes the normal from the superconducting state, and the
penetration depth λ(x). Indeed a maximum T_(c) is observed for "optimum"
doping, with a decrease in both the underdoped and overdoped regimes.
The penetration depth λ characterizes the appearance of the Meissner
state, and its "true" doping dependence is currently a topic of
considerable debate.[1, 2, 3, 4] On the other hand, from a
phase-transition point of view, an analysis of thermal fluctuations
points to three-dimensional (3D) _xy_ critical behavior, which leads to
a relation between the specific-heat singularity, λ and T_(c), and
predicts an increase of λ in the overdoped regime, _independent of any
microscopic mechanism of superconductivity_.[5] Recent work on overdoped
Tl compounds[1, 2] and overdoped YBa₂Cu₃O₇ "123" compounds[6] appears to
confirm these predictions.

In this paper we report careful measurements of various properties on
c-axis La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄ (’214") thin films, covering the doping
regime from heavily underdoped to heavily overdoped. Particular
attention was given to the preparation of _high-quality, homogeneous
films_. First, the normal-state properties, such as the Hall coefficient
R_(H) and the in-plane resistivity ρ_(ab), are obtained as a function of
doping; they allow an estimate of the mean free path l. Second, the
evolution of the structural properties is reported as a function of
doping and thickness. Then the thermal activation energy for flux flow,
Δ U – related to λ – is derived from ρ_(ab)(T) measurements in a
magnetic field close to T_(c). Finally, the in-plane penetration depth
λ_(ab) is obtained directly from the kinetic inductance L_(K) for the
same samples. About 20 samples have been characterized, and this work
represents the most complete study of the behavior of λ from the heavily
underdoped to the heavily overdoped regime to date.

The original Sr-doped La₂CuO₄ compound[7] is an attrac tive material for
such a study, as it supports "bulk" and homogeneous superconductivity
over a large range of doping as recently demonstrated.[8, 9] The
preparation of "bulk" homogeneous "214" samples is tedious (particularly
in the overdoped regime), owing to the very slow Sr incorporation into
the easily formed undoped 214 lattice during solid-state sintering at
the standard temperatures (more than 100 h are necessary for sintering
at 900 degC).[9] This effect and the resulting "chemical phase
separation" could well explain Uemura’s early results[3] as well as the
claims that superconductivity is restricted to a narrow composition
range.[10, 11] From a sample-preparation point of view, the thin-film
growth process is ideal for avoiding the occurrence of chemical phase
separation. The growth process is mostly 2D, as films with large and
atomically flat surfaces (μm size) can easily be obtained.[12] This
indicates that the surface diffusion coefficients are certainly large
enough to ensure a homogeneous Sr distribution. The films used here were
grown on SrTiO3 using sequential molecular-beam deposition; the
deposition details and the overall structural properties of the films
have been published elsewhere.[12, 13] Briefly, x-ray diffraction,
atomic force microscopy, and transmission electron microscopy (TEM)
revealed single-phase and _c_-axis single-crystal films with a surface
roughness of about one unit cell (over 1 μm²) and a microstructure that
is essentially free of the usual defects observed in high-T_(c) cuprate
films, such as secondary phase inclusions, _a_-axis inclusions, grain
and/or twin boundaries. Strong chemical inhomogeneity, such as that
induced by large-scale Sr clustering, can be observed using TEM.[13]
However during the TEM investigations of the films, no evidence of such
behavior was found in the entire doping range studied.

## II Normal-state properties

The normal-state properties ρ⁻¹ and R_(H)⁻¹ obtained at 100 K using
standard four-point and Hall-effect measurements are summarized in Fig.
1 as a function of doping. For both quantities a _monotonic increase_ is
observed with increasing Sr content. They are in _excellent agreement_
with literature data of other thin films on SrTiO3 having a comparable
thickness, although single crystals and thicker films show reduced
resistivities (≈20-30

Models must be used to relate ρ⁻¹ and R_(H)⁻¹ to the carrier density n,
and only the simplest ones predict a direct proportionality, ρ⁻¹∝n and
R_(H)⁻¹∝n. Although more elaborate models could modify these
predictions, we expect that ρ⁻¹ and R_(H)⁻¹ increase with n. Therefore
our data suggest that the carrier density increases with Sr doping.
Further evidence of this comes from normal-state measurements of the Cu
spin-lattice-relaxation rate, the magnetic shift and the spin
susceptibility obtained from nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR)
experiments on this compound[18] as well as on overdoped YBa2Cu3O7 (Ref.
[19]) and Tl2Ba2CuO6.[20, 21] These _independent_ measurements clearly
suggest that an increase in the Sr content indeed increases n.

## III Structural properties

While the normal-state properties are in excellent agreement with
literature values, there is a significant difference between the lattice
parameters of 214 thin films on SrTiO3 and those of the bulk 214. From
θ-2 θ x-ray-diffraction experiments, the value of the _c_-axis lattice
parameter can be derived and is shown in Fig. 2 as a function of Sr
content for our thin and thick films as well as for bulk samples.[22]
These data are in very good agreement with those recently reported for
laser-ablated 214 thin films on SrTiO3.[23] Although there is an
experimental error (± 0.01 A) in the determination of the _c_-axis
lattice parameter for the thin films, a comparison between the data of
films and bulk material indicates an average difference of ≃ 0.045 A,
i.e., a contraction of about 0.35

There are two possible origins for this difference in lattice
parameters. First, it is well documented that an oxygen deficiency in
the 214 lattice gives rise to a reduced _c_-axis lattice parameter. This
possibility can be excluded, as the samples are cooled under a flow of
atomic oxygen that is sufficiently powerful to fill even some
interstitial oxygen sites and that can induce superconductivity at 32 K
in 214 thin films prepared without Sr, (La₂CuO_(4 + δ)).[32] In
addition, a post-annealing of these films in an oxygen atmosphere at

Figure 1: Inverse resistivity (●) and inverse Hall coefficient (■) at
100 K versus Sr concentration.

700 degC for 24 h does not significantly change the lattice parameters.
The second possibility is related to the in-plane lattice parameter
difference between SrTiO3 (3.9 A) and 214 (3.8 A). The 2.5

To find out whether the lattice misfit is completely accommodated by the
creation of misfit dislocations, we have performed a detailed analysis
of _in-situ_ reflection high-energy electron diffraction (RHEED) spectra
recorded during the deposition of an undoped 214 film on SrTiO3 at 750
degC. The RHEED images of the film present a series of long streaks at
regular spacings, characteristic of two-dimensional growth.[12] Line
scans taken across such spectra show a series of peaks that have been
fitted using the Phexagon VII peak profile. From the peak positions the
in-plane lattice parameter can be estimated _in principle_ with an
accuracy of ≈ 0.01 A. However to obtain an accurate absolute value the
precise geometrical diffraction conditions must be known. Minute
geometrical changes of the sample manipulator during a temperature ramp
currently prevent a measurement of the lattice parameters as a function
of the temperature. Hence such a precision can only be maintained for a
comparison under identical conditions (such as during growth). A more
detailed report of this method and the analysis of the _in-situ_ RHEED
data is in preparation.[25]

To calibrate the vertical axis of Fig. 3 precisely we have used the
lattice parameter of the substrate but extrapolated to 750 degC by using
literature values of the thermal-expansion coefficients (α) of SrTiO3
and 214. For SrTiO3, α = 11 × 10⁻⁶/K,[26] which gives a d_([100])
spacing of 3.937 A. The only data we found regarding the thermal
expansion of undoped 214 at temperatures much above the
orthorhombic-tetragonal phase-transition temperature are given in Ref.
[27], namely, α = 8.5 × 10⁻⁶/K and a d_([100]) spacing of 3.826 A.

The evolution of the [100] and [110] lattice parameters is shown in Fig.
3 as a function of the number of unit cells deposited. The extrapolated
bulk 214 values (3.826 and 2.703 A, respectively) are indicated by the
short lines on the right-hand axis. For the first unit cells (up to ≈
100 A), the in-plane lattice parameter is very close to that of the
substrate. For larger thicknesses – as the creation of misfit
dislocations sets in – a decrease of the lattice parameters is observed,
but even at the maximum thickness studied here, there is no saturation.
In addition, the thin-film values are still larger than the bulk lattice
parameters, suggesting that the strain is not yet completely relieved.
This remaining difference – averaged over the two data sets –
corresponds to an in-plane lattice expansion of about 0.4

Within the resolution (≈ 0.01 A) of the available instruments (x-ray
diffraction, RHEED, and TEM), all thin films discussed here have a
tetragonal structure. Even thin films of the undoped 214 compound –
which has the largest orthorhombic distortion (b − a ≈ 0.05 A) in bulk
samples – show no deviation from the tetragonal symmetry. It is known
that

Figure 3: Evolution of the in-plane d_([100]) (•) and d_([100]) (◼)
lattice parameters as a function of thickness for an undoped 214 film.

Figure 2: Evolution of the c-axis lattice parameter versus Sr
concentration for thick (◼) and thin (•) films as well as for bulk
samples (▴).

the undoped orthorhombic 214 lattice can be transformed into a
tetragonal lattice by the application of _hydrostatic_ pressure of about
4 GPa.[29]

The above experimental data (the room-temperature _c_-axis lattice
parameters, the high-temperature _in-plane_ lattice parameters, and the
absence of an orthorhombic distortion) unambiguously suggest that the
thin films on SrTiO 3 are under tension. Unfortunately, these data were
gathered under widely different experimental conditions, and with
insufficient precision to allow a fully quantitative stress analysis.
Qualitatively, however, the _cause_ of this stress is an increased
_in-plane_ lattice parameter with a reduced _c_-axis lattice parameter
as a _consequence_. Experimentally, an identical situation cannot be
realized using high-pressure methods. In a uniaxial pressure experiment,
cause and consequence are interchanged compared to our case, but similar
changes in lattice parameters should be observed. Since no literature
data are available regarding the evolution of the lattice parameters
under uniaxial pressure, estimates from hydrostatic or quasihydrostatic
experiments are used. The above lattice parameters show that the films
are under tension, in a state that is qualitatively equivalent to the
application of a _pseudouniaxial_ pressure of the order of 2-3 GPa along
the c axis.

As described by Goodenough and Manthiam[30] for the 214 compounds the La
2O 2 sheets are under tension in the K2NiF4 structure, because the eight
La-O distances measured (three La-O distances 2.52 A, five La-O
distances 2.714 A) are close to or larger than the sum of the ionic
radii: 2.55 A. However, the cohesion of the structure is ensured by the
very short apical La-O bond ( 2.35 A). If the a and b lattice parameters
increase – as is the case in our films – the lateral La-O distances
should also increase, which therefore induces even more lateral tension
in the La 2O 2 sheets. In order to compensate such a stress, the apical
La-O distances must decrease, corresponding to a decrease of the c axis
in our thin films.

In the following paragraph we compare the normal-state properties of the
films with those of bulk compounds under pressure. Unfortunately only
few uniaxial-pressure measurements on the 214 compound exist. Therefore
we make the reasonable assumption that the observed in-plane film
properties are affected by the in-plane epitaxial tensile strain (i.e.,
a negative pressure) to a similar _magnitude_ as is found under
hydrostatic (positive) pressure for bulk compounds, but with _opposite
sign_.

For the 214 system, it has been shown by Tanahashi _et al.[31]_ that
hydrostatic pressure has only a small effect (a few

## IV Critical Temperature

The critical temperature (T_(c)) versus x was measured both resistively
and inductively, and is shown in Fig. 4 for both thin (39, 50, and 65
nm) and thick (200 nm) films prepared under identical conditions.
Typical transitions widths – in both types of measurements – are 2-3 K,
independent of the amount of doping. There is no evidence for a
composition-dependent zero-field broadening of the transition. The
maximum critical temperature observed, at optimum doping (_x_ = 0.16)
for the thickest films, is about 28 K; away from optimal doping, the
critical temperature decreases. These data also confirm the well-known
but not yet understood trend that the critical temperature of thin 214
films grown on SrTiO 3 strongly depends on the film thickness,[14, 17] a
T_(c) above 30 K being observed only for very large thicknesses.

Different structural phases with a different T_(c) occur in the 214
system as the structural details, such as the octahedral tilting angle
and the orthorhombicity, are changed.[33] In thin films on a
lattice-mismatched substrate, these parameters are

Figure 4: The critical temperature as a function of Sr concentration for
thin (■) and thick (●) films.

expected to differ from bulk values. The structural study presented here
showed the presence of a significant tensile strain, which might explain
– at least partially – the reduced critical temperature of these films.
To our knowledge only one direct experiment of the uniaxial pressure
dependence of the critical temperature is available in the literature:
Motoi _et al._[34] studied this property on grain-aligned 214 composites
as a function of Sr doping and found that T_(c) decreases, at the rate
of 3 to 9 K/GPa, under pressure applied along the c axis, depending on
the doping level.

Alternatively the uniaxial pressure derivatives of T_(c) can be obtained
by measuring the thermal-expansion anomalies at T_(c) along the
different crystallographic orientations using the Ehrenfest relation.
This method, which requires the knowledge of the specific-heat jump at
the transition temperature, has been used by several authors, [24, 35,
36, 37] and estimates of approximately − 6 to − 7 K/GPa for
dT_(c)/dP_(c) (for pressure applied along the c axis), 2 K/GPa for
dT_(c)/dP_(a), and 5 K/GPa dT_(c)/dP_(b) have been reported for
optimally doped samples. These data on bulk 214 samples, together with
in-plane tensile strains equivalent to an estimated pseudouniaxial
pressure of the order of 2 GPa, can easily explain the drastic reduction
of the critical temperature in thin films to values around 20 K. A more
quantitative analysis would require measurements of the pressure
dependence of the critical temperature of both a- and c-axis 214 thin
films as was done by Bud’ko _et al._[38] for 123.

For thicker films more strain is relieved (although this is not clearly
visible from the data in Fig. 2). The critical temperature is indeed
higher, but the general trend of T_(c) versus x is the same for both
thicknesses (see Fig. 4). Indeed, it is well known that applying
pressure to this high-T_(c) cuprate changes the _absolute values_ of the
critical temperature but does not affect the _general trend_ of the
superconducting properties (for instance, the maximum of T_(c)(x) still
occurs for x ≈ 0.16). Applying a high-pressure oxygen treatment to such
thin films can restore the bulk critical temperatures. [39] We did not
perform such a treatment, as it introduces yet another process variable
and as it can change the carrier density if additional oxygen is
incorporated.

## V Complex impedance measurements

To determine λ, several methods have been used, such as muon spin
resonance (μSR) measurements, [3] ’mixed-state" magnetization isotherms
[8, 40] [i.e., M(H) in the reversible regime], and microwave
experiments. [41] Here we derive λ_(ab) from a two-coil mutual
inductance measurement. [42] This technique allows the complex sheet
impedance Z_(▫) = R_(▫) + _i_ω_L_(▫) to be extracted from the measured
real and imaginary parts of the signal using a numerical inversion
procedure. In zero field, L_(▫) is the sheet kinetic inductance L_(K),
which is related to the penetration depth λ_(ab) by L_(K) = μ₀λ_(ab)²/d,
with μ₀ the vacuum permittivity and d the film thickness. On the other
hand, R_(▫) = ρ_(ab)/d is related to dissipation resulting from vortex
motion.

### Activation energy

Close to T_(c) and in a magnetic field parallel to the c axis, we find
that lnρ_(ab), as inferred from resistive and inductive measurements,
varies linearly with 1/T, implying thermally activated vortex motion
over a pinning barrier. The activation energies Δ U(T = 0) derived from
the inductively measured ρ_(ab)(T) curves at H = 0.4 T are presented in
Fig. 5 as a function of x for different film thicknesses. These data are
very different from those reported in the literature, [14] where a large
field broadening was observed in the underdoped regime, but not in the
overdoped regime. We want to point out that the field used here (0.4 T)
is much smaller and that the activation energy is obtained from ρ_(ab)
values that are very close to the onset of resistance, in the
resistivity range between 10⁻³ and 10⁻⁶ μΩ cm, i.e., five to eight
decades below ρ_(50 K) (see figures in Ref. 12). Hence these data cannot
easily be related to those extracted from the broadening of the
resistive transition in the 100 μΩ cm range and the doping dependence
reported. [14]

In Fig. 5Δ U reaches a maximum the height of which depends on the film
thickness for optimum doping and decreases as one deviates from it. It
is generally expected that Δ U is proportional to 1/λ². For instance,
Feigel’man _et al._[43] propose that the activation energy of a
dislocation pair in the 2D collective-pinning model behaves as Δ U =
(Φ₀²d/1 θ π² μ₀λ₀²)ln(a₀/ξ₀), [44] where a₀ is the flux-line lattice
spacing. Since a₀/ξ₀≫ 1 at the field of interest in our studies, the
logarithmic term is a slowly varying function of x, so that Δ U(x) is
essentially proportional to λ⁻²(x). Another relation was proposed by
Blatter _et al._[45] for the case of a single vortex along the c axis of
a 3D superconductor containing randomly distributed, weak pinning
centers: Δ U = Φ₀²ξ₀ δ^(1/3)e^(2/3)/π² μ₀λ₀², where δ is a disorder
parameter and e² the mass anisotropy. Although ε is strongly doping
dependent in the underdoped case, it becomes almost constant in the
overdoped regime, [8] and therefore Δ U(x)  ∝ λ⁻²(x). Thus the
conclusion emerging from the data in

Figure 5: The activation energy for flux flow Δ U/k_(B) (expressed in
temperature units) as a function of the Sr concentration for thin (◼)
and thick (◼) films.

Fig. 5 is that l(_x_) is _nonmonotonic_ in x with a minimum value at
optimum doping. Stronger pinning, as suggested in Ref. 8, and/or a
larger disorder d cannot explain the data in the overdoped regime.

### Penetration depth

Additional and even stronger evidence of the nonmonotonic l-2(_x_) with
Sr doping is provided by direct measurements of l_ab_ using the
mutual-inductance technique. The temperature dependence of l_ab_(_T_)
has already been published.12 Except for the temperature regime close to
T_(c) (where critical fluctuations play an important role), the
temperature dependence can be fitted reasonably well with a two-fluid
relation l/l0(_T_)=[1-(_t_)4]-1/2, (_t_ = _T_/_T__c_), allowing the
extrapolation of l to T - 0 K. Figure 6 shows the extrapolated l(0)
(open symbols) as a function of doping. Fitting the same data with a
BCS-type relation reduces the absolute values of l(0) by $\sqrt{2}$, but
does not change the doping dependence. Note that in the present context
the detailed temperature dependence is unimportant, as the experimental
data at a specific value of t are already sufficient to illustrate our
point.12 For instance, an alternative derivation of l is provided by an
analysis of the data close to T_(c). In this region 3D fluctuations lead
to a l(_T_)/l0 = [1-_t_]-1/3 dependence,5,12 and values of l0 have been
included in Fig. 6 (filled symbols). It is expected that l0 <= l(0), as
observed experimentally, but regardless of the values used, a
_nonmonotonic_ behavior of l(_x_) with a minimum close to optimum doping
is obtained. The values for thick films confirm this observation and
have also been included (()).

We do not place too much emphasis on the absolute values of the
penetration depths obtained, as several experimental details render a
comparison with bulk samples [where l_ab_(0) = 3000 A at optimum
doping40] difficult. First, a simple relation between T_(c) and l0 has
been observed experimentally, namely _the Uemura plot_3 that partially
explains the large values of the penetration depth observed here: the
values of l0 <= 6000 A are simply due to the lower T_(c) between 20 and
30 K.3,4,8 Indeed, this experimental correlation yields a relation
between T_(c) and l0 of optimally doped cuprate superconductors:
T_(c) ∝ λ₀⁻². Hence, rather than a bulk l0 value of <=3000 A, our films
would ideally have a l0 value of <=4200 A, close to what we actually
observe.

Secondly, to deduce l0 from the measured L_(K), we have used the nominal
film thickness. Actually, on account of the presence of strain fields
which suppress superconductivity in those portions of the film which are
close to the substrate, the effective thickness where superconductivity
is established homogeneously might be less than the nominal one, thereby
leading to smaller values of l0.

Thirdly, the equation42 used to derive the value of L_(K) from the
inductive measurements is valid for shielding currents extending over
very large radii. The lateral dimensions of our thin films (1 cm2, i.e.,
only 2-3 times larger than the driving-coil diameter) will certainly
affect the shielding efficiency, which might lead to higher values of
the penetration depth.

Finally, we have shown that the films are subject to an in-plane
_epitaxial tensile strain_ that reduces T_(c). It is not known to what
extent this strain influences the absolute values of the penetration
depth or its anisotropy (l_ab_/l_c_). In any case, the first argument is
certainly valid, and the remaining difference between the bulk and our
thin-film values (4200-6000 A) is probably due a combination of the
three other experimental constraints. As the remaining difference is
rather small, _the observed behavior is intrinsic and cannot be an
artefact due to the sample quality_.

These different experimental constraints are not expected to be a strong
function of doping, thus we focus on _the general trend of the data_ as
a function of Sr content rather than on the absolute values. For
instance, when comparing our film data in the underdoped regime to those
available for bulk samples,3,4,8 the same experimental trend can be
observed [in both cases l(0)(_x_ = 0.1)/l(0)(_x_ = 0.16) = 2]. In the
overdoped regime, values of l are difficult to obtain for bulk samples.8
The thin-film data presented here are the first for heavily overdoped
214 samples, and _the excellent agreement between the films and bulk
samples in the underdoped regime suggests that the observed nonmonotonic
behavior in the overdoped regime is an intrinsic property of this
compound_.

## VI Discussion

The results obtained from resistive and inductive measurements indicate
that, despite the fact that more carriers are being added to the system,
the screening capability of the superconductor is reduced in the
overdoped regime. _This is the main result of our paper and is in marked
contrast to the simple London prediction l_ab_-2_x__n__j_/m*. This
effect has also been observed in overdoped Tl and 123 compounds.12,6

Figure 6: The penetration depth l_ab_ as a function of Sr concentration
derived using the critical fluctuations close to T_(c) (■): thin and ▲:
thick films) and using a two-fluid extrapolation to 0 K (□: thin and ○:
thick films).

### Dirty limit

Such a behavior could be expected for a superconductor in the dirty
limit (l(l≪ξ₀), and estimates indicate that l must be smaller than ξ₀/10
in order to explain the observed upturn. The mean free path in the 214
system has been estimated from resistivity [46] and infrared [47]
measurements. From the resistivity measurements a value of ρ×l = 3 ×
10⁻¹⁰Ω cm² has been derived for an optimally doped sample. For the
regime of interest (optimally to overdoped), our ρ values – close to
T_(c) – are between 100 and 200 μΩ cm, which gives a mean free path of
300 to 150 A, respectively. The infrared measurement of a thick,
optimally doped 214 film (8200 A) close to T_(c) , led to an estimate of
l≈ 275 A a value that is in agreement with the resistivity measurement.
From these estimates, it is clear that l is much too large compared to
the quoted short coherence length in these cuprates, to explain the
observed upturn in λ .

### 3D _xy_

The results are consistent with the analysis of thermal fluctuations
close to T_(c) (3D _xy_ critical behavior), which leads to a relation
between the specific-heat singularity, λ and T_(c) .[5] With this
relation, λ can be derived from the specific-heat singularity and T_(c)
, T_(c)∝λ₀⁻², and an increase of λ in the overdoped regime is predicted,
_independent of any microscopic mechanism of superconductivity_. Hence,
the 3D _xy_ behavior extends over the entire phase-transition line
T_(c)(x). Recently this consistency, together with a finite-size effect
observed in the temperature dependence of λ close to T_(c) , was used to
derive the amplitude of the perpendicular real-space phase correlation
length ξ_(x0)^(ϕ) as a function of doping for the same series of samples
.[48]

### n_(s)/m*

On a microscopic basis, λ is related to other parameters of the
superconducting state, such as the superfluid density n_(s) (not to be
confused with the carrier density) and the effective mass of the
carriers m*: λ⁻²∝n_(s)/m*. This raises the question whether the
superfluid density n_(s) or the effective mass m* is responsible for the
increase of λ as doping proceeds beyond the optimum value. Various
possibilities have already been suggested .[1, 40] To go beyond these
arguments, the question to be addressed is whether these additional
carriers introduced in the system beyond optimum doping all contribute
to the superfluid, i.e., whether n_(s)→n at zero temperature and/or
whether microscopic phenomena (on length scales smaller than λ), such as
a _chemical_ or an _electronic phase separation_,[49] could actually
lower n_(s). An analysis of the optical conductivity ,[50] the ⁶³Cu
relaxation rate, the ⁶³Cu Knight shift ,[51] and of the specific heat
[52] suggests that the added carriers in the overdoped regime only
partially condense into pairs.

## VII Conclusions

We have shown that the epitaxial driving force imposes a residual
tension on the 214 thin films grown on SrTiO₃. This tension has
significant effects on both the normal state and the superconducting
properties of these films, mainly by increasing the resistivity and
decreasing the critical temperature. Measurements of the penetration
depth as a function of doping reveal a nonmonotonic dependence,
previously not observed in this compound. After completion of this work,
we have been informed that μSR measurements of the doping dependence of
λ in bulk 214 compounds [53] are fully consistent with our observations.

###### Acknowledgements.

The authors wish to thank K. A. Muller, J. G. Bednorz, J.-M. Triscone,
D. Ariosa, R. Micnas, J. J. Rodriguez-Nunez, and C. Rossel for
stimulating discussions, and the Swiss National Science Foundation for
financial support through the PNR30 program. M. Pedersen, K. Kitazawa,
and S. Ushida have contributed considerably towards the understanding of
the behavior of overdoped compounds. We also thank I. Mangelschots and
K. Ishida for relating the NMR data to our results.

## References

* [1] Y. J. Uemura _et al._, Nature (London) **364**, 605 (1993). * [2]
C. Niedermeier _et al._ (unpublished); C. Niedermeier _et al._, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **71**, 1764 (1993). * [3] Y. J. Uemura _et al._, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **62**, 2317 (1989); Phys. Rev. B **38**, 909 (1988). * [4] T.
Schibauchi _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **72**, 2263 (1994). * [5] T.
Schneider _et al._, Physica C **216**, 432 (1993); T. Schneider, Proc.
SPIE **2157**, 2 (1994). * [6] C. Bernhard _et al._, Phys. Rev. B
**52**, 10 488 (1995). * [7] J. G. Bednorz and K. A. Muller, Z. Phys. B
**64**, 189 (1986). * [8] K. Kitazawa _et al._, Appl. Supercond. **1**,
567 (1993); T. Nagano _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **48**, 9689 (1993). * [9]
P. G. Radaelli _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **49**, 4163 (1994). * [10] R. B.
Van Dover _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **35**, 5337 (1987); K. Yoshimura _et
al._, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **59**, 3073 (1990). * [11] D. R. Harshman and
A. P. Mills, Jr., Phys. Rev. B **45**, 10 684 (1992). * [12] Y. Jaccard
_et al._, Proc. SPIE **2158**, 200 (1994); Physica C **235-240**, 1811
(1994). * [13] E. J. Williams _et al._, in _Electron Microscopy &
Analysis 1993_, edited by A. Craven, IOP Conf. Proc. No. 138 (Institute
of Physics and Physical Society, London, 1994), p. 329; E. J. Williams
_et al._, _Proceedings of the 13th Int’l Congress on Electron Microscopy
(ICEM13), Paris, France, July 1994_, edited by B. Jouffrey, C. Colliex,
J. P. Chevalier, F. Glas, and P. W. Hawkes (Les Editions de Physique,
Paris, 1994), Vol. 2A, p. 987. * [14] M. Suzuki, Phys. Rev. B **39**,
2312 (1989); M. Suzuki and M. Hikita, _ibid._**44**, 249 (1991). * [15]
H. Y. Hwang, B. Batlogg, H. Takagi, H. L. Kao, J. Kwo, R. J. Cava, J. J.
Krajewski, and W. F. Peck, Jr., Phys. Rev. Lett. **72**, 2636 (1994). *
[16] H. Takagi _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **69**, 2975 (1992). * [17] H.
L. Kao _et al._, Appl. Phys. Lett. **59**, 2748 (1991). * [18] Y.-Q.
Song _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **70**, 3131 (1993). * [19] M. Takigawa
_et al._, Phys. Rev. B **43**, 247 (1991). * [20] K. Fujiwara _et al._,
Physica C **184**, 207 (1991); K. Fujiwara _et al._, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn.
**59**, 3459 (1990). * [21] Y. Itoh _et al._, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **63**,
22 (1994).

* (22) H. Takagi _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **40**, 2254 (1989). * (23) G.
Rietveld, M. Glastra, and D. van der Marel, Physica C **241**, 257
(1995). * (24) J. S. Schilling and S. Klotz, in _Physical Properties of
High Temperature Superconductors_, Vol. 3, edited by D. M. Ginsberg
(World Scientific, London, 1992), p. 59. * (25) J.-P. Locquet _et al._
(unpublished). * (26) H. J. Scheel, Mater Res. Bull. **19**, 26
(1994). * (27) F. Tresse, Ph.D. thesis, University of Bordeaux, France,
1990. * (28) E. J. Williams _et al._, _Proceedings of Microscopy and
Microanalysis_, edited by G. W. Bailey _et al._ (Jones & Begell, New
York, 1995), p. 382. * (29) H. Takahashi _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **50**,
3227 (1994). * (30) J. B. Goodenough and A. Manthiram, J. Solid State
Chem. **88**, 115 (1990). * (31) N. Tanahashi _et al._, Jpn. J. Appl.
Phys. Lett. **28**, L762 (1989). * (32) F. Arrouy _et al._, this issue,
Phys. Rev. B **54**, 7512 (1996). * (33) Wu. Ting and K. Fossheim, Phys.
Rev. B **48**, 16 751 (1993). * (34) Y. Motoi _et al._, J. Phys. Soc.
Jpn. **60**, 384 (1991). * (35) Y. Maeno _et al._, in _Advances in
Superconductivity VI_, edited by T. Fujita and Y. Shiohara
(Springer-Verlag, Tokyo, 1994), p. 103. * (36) C. Meingast _et al._,
Physica C **235-240**, 1313 (1994); F. Gugenberger _et al._, Phys. Rev.
B **49**, 13 137 (1994). * (37) M. Braden _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **47**,
12 288 (1993). * (38) S. L. Bud’ko _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **46**, 1257
(1992). * (39) M. Z. Cieplack _et al._, Appl. Phys. Lett. **65**, 3383
(1994). * (40) Q. Li _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **47**, 2854 (1993). * (41)
S. M. Anlage _et al._, Appl. Phys. Lett. **54**, 2710 (1989). * (42) B.
Jeanneret _et al._, Appl. Phys. Lett. **55**, 2336 (1989). * (43) M. V.
Feigel’man, V. B. Geshkenbein, and A. I. Larkin, Physica C **167**, 177
(1990). * (44) O. Brunner _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **67**, 1354
(1991). * (45) G. Blatter, M. V. Feigel’man, V. B. Gesynkenbein, A. I.
Larkin, and V. M. Vinokur (unpublished). * (46) M. Gurvitch and A. T.
Fiory, Phys. Rev. Lett. **59**, 1337 (1987). * (47) F. Gao _et al._,
Phys. Rev. B **47**, 1036 (1993). * (48) Y. Jaccard _et al._, Europhys.
Lett. **34**, 281 (1996). * 3rd Workshop, Erice, Italy (World
Scientific, Singapore, 1993), and references therein. * (50) S. Uchida,
_et al._, J. Low Temp. Phys. **95**, 109 (1994). * (51) S. Ohsugi, _et
al._, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **63**, 700 (1994). * (52) J. W. Loram, _et
al._, Physica C **235-240**, 134 (1994). * (53) H. Keller, _et al._
(private communication).
