# High-pressure and doping studies of the superconducting antiperovskite
SrPt₃P

BenMaan I. Jawdat, Bing Lv, Xiyu Zhu, Yuyi Xue, and Ching-wu Chu

Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, 1 Cyclotron Road, Berkeley, CA
94720, USA

###### Abstract

We report the results of our investigation of SrPt₃P, a recently
discovered strong-coupling superconductor with T_(c) = 8.4 K, by
application of high physical pressure and by chemical doping. We study
hole-doped SrPt₃P, which was theoretically predicted to have a higher
T_(c), resistively, magnetically, and calorimetrically. Here we present
the results of these studies and discuss their implications.

pacs: DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.91.094514 + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL
REVIEW B **91**, 094514 (2015)

In 2012, Takayama _et al._[1] announced their discovery of SrPt₃P, a
centrosymmetric material that crystallizes in an antiperovskite
structure similar to that of CePt₃Si, with the notable difference that
the distorted Pt₆P octahedral units are arranged antipolar rather than
polar [1], which leads to centrosymmetry as opposed to noncentrosymmetry
in CePt₃Si [2]. This ternary platinum phosphide is a strong-coupling
superconductor with a T_(c) of ∼8.4 K [1]. Following the discovery of
SrPt₃P, several conflicting theoretical papers studying the electronic,
vibrational, and thermodynamic properties of this material were
published [3; 4; 5; 6]. One suggested that the structure might be
tuneable by an appropriate choice of a substitute for phosphorus [3];
another suggested that the T_(c) might increase with hole doping [7].

Herein we report results of the chemical doping and high-pressure
effects on the properties of SrPt₃P. In this study, the samples were
prepared as follows. Stoichiometric amounts of platinum powder,
phosphorus powder, and strontium pieces were mixed together in a glove
box under an argon atmosphere with total O₂ and moisture level less than
1 ppm. The mixture was pressed into a small pellet and loaded into a
Al₂O₃ crucible. The crucible together with the pellet was then sealed in
a clean quartz tube under vacuum. The whole assembly was then put inside
a tube furnace for reaction. The reaction sequence is the same as
reported by Takayama _et al._[1]. X-ray-diffraction (XRD)
characterization of the material was carried out using a Panalytical
Xpert diffractometer, magnetic measurements were carried out using the
Quantum Design Magnetic Property Measurement System (MPMS), and
specific-heat measurements were carried out using the Quantum Design
Physical Property Measurement System (PPMS). Resistivity measurements
were made using a Linear Research LR-400 ac resistance bridge operated
at 15.9 Hz and a modified probe in the MPMS, and high-pressure
resistivity measurements were made using a BeCu piston-cylinder cell
with a quasibrostatic pressure medium, Fluorinert77.

The x-ray powder pattern of SrPt₃P is shown in Fig. 1. The sample is
rather pure, as evidenced by the matching of almost all peaks to the
structure proposed by Takayama _et al._[1]. The relatively good quality
of the sample was further verified by the rather sharp resistivity drop
of the superconducting transition. The width of the resistive transition
at 90

We began our investigation of the properties of SrPt₃P by applying high
physical pressure to the material. The temperature-dependent resistivity
measurements under pressure are shown in Fig. 3. Taking the midpoint of
the transition as the superconducting transition, we can clearly see an
increase of the superconducting transition from 8.35 K at ambient
pressure to a maximum 8.49 K at a pressure of 9.90 kbars [Fig. 3(b)].
Further application of pressure beyond 9.90 kbars appears to lower the
transition temperature, with the highest pressure of 17.53 kbars leading
to a T_(c) of 8.47 K. The change in slope of the superconducting
transition at high pressure may be related to its width. Measurements
were taken at several pressures upon unloading during the course of the
experiment; we find that the trend is largely reversible with a minor
split (<0.01 K) between the pressure-increasing and pressure-decreasing
branches. Upon unloading to ambient pressure, the T_(c) does not recover
its original value and instead is slightly higher. Irreversible defects
may have been introduced to the sample during the course of applying
pressure as evidenced by our observation that, upon unloading pressure,
the resistivity above T_(c) is higher than before loading [Fig. 3(a),
inset]. Previous reports characterize SrPt₃P as a traditional
electron-phonon superconductor in the strong-coupling regime [1; 3];
therefore, the increase in T_(c) upon application of high pressure can
be explained by an increase in the characteristic phonon energy
Θ_(D)[8]. The observed decrease in T_(c) after the maximum is reached
could be viewed as the result of a competition between an increasing
Debye temperature and a decreasing density of states at the Fermi level
[9; 10].

Chemical doping was also carried out for the SrPt₃P compound. We
selected Si as the dopant for two reasons: (1) the size of the Si is
very close to that of P, minimizing any possible interference due to
size difference with the formation of the material; and (2) the doping
of Si will likely introduce more hole carriers and will allow the study
of hole-doping effects theoretically proposed by Nekrasov and Sadovskii
[7]. Figure 4 shows the results of XRD with Si doping. The XRD spectrum
of the undoped SrPt₃P sample is compared with that of the Si-doped
sample (in red). It is clear from this comparison that Si can replace P
up to 20

Temperature-dependent magnetization and resistivity measurements were
performed on samples with x = 0 and 0.2. Figure 6(a) shows that the
onset transition temperature of the parent compound SrPt₃P is roughly
8.4 K.

From our resistivity measurements, we observe suppression of
superconductivity with a magnetic field of 3 T to below the lowest
temperature measured. The temperature-dependent magnetization of x = 0.2
is shown in Fig. 6(b) with an onset transition temperature of ∼7.8 K. We
have also performed magnetization measurements on samples with x = 0.4
and 0.6, and observed that the T_(c) decreases to 7.5 and 7.0 K with
increasing Si doping, respectively.

Figure 1: (Color online) X-ray-diffraction pattern for SrPt₃P. Unknown
peaks are marked with a star.

Figure 4: (Color online) XRD results for the SrPt₃P and
SrPt₃P_(0.8)Si_(0.2) samples. Inset: Shift of the (201) XRD peak with
increasing Si content.

Figure 3: (Color online) (a) Temperature-dependent resistivity of SrPt₃P
at different pressures. (b) Enlarged temperature scale of resistivity vs
temperature near T_(c) for SrPt₃P at different pressures (the sequential
order of runs indicated by numbers in parentheses). Insets show (a)
resistivity vs temperature above T_(c) for loading and unloading runs
and (b) T_(c) vs pressure.

Figure 2: Temperature-dependent resistivity and magnetic susceptibility
of SrPt₃P. Inset (top left): The narrow resistive transition in an
enlarged temperature scale from 0 to 20 K. Inset (bottom right): The
magnetic susceptibility in ZFC and FC modes.

Bulk superconductivity was established in both the parent compound
SrPt₃P and the sample with 20

Figure 6: (Color online) Top: Magnetic susceptibility vs temperature at
different magnetic fields for (a) SrPt₃P and (b) SrPt₃P_(0.8)Si_(0.2);
resistivity vs temperature with different magnetic fields is applied for
(c) SrPt₃P and (d) SrPt₃P_(0.8)Si_(0.2).

sample (1.0 K). These modified data are still well fitted by α = 2.4
[Fig. 7(a), inset]. Comparing the scaled specific heat C_(d)/γT_(c) vs
T/T_(c) [Fig. 7(c)] for the x = 0 data and the x = 0.2 data with equal
transition temperature width, we observe a significant decrease in the
specific-heat jump ΔC/γT_(c) at T_(c) from ≈1.87 for the undoped sample
to ≈1.36 for the x = 0.2 doped sample.

The apparent increase of N(ϵ_(F)) with Si doping is in agreement with
previous electronic structure calculations showing the Fermi level
located on a negative slope in the density of states [7]. The decrease
in T_(c) despite this increase in N(ϵ_(F)) supports the suggestion that
the T_(c) does not simply scale with N(ϵ_(F))[1]. The observed decrease
in α could explain the observed decrease in T_(c), and is in agreement
with a previous report that decreasing coupling strength suppressed
T_(c) despite an increase in carrier density [14].

In conclusion, we investigated the superconductivity in SrPt₃P
resistively, magnetically, and calorimetrically, including under the
application of high physical pressure and with the partial replacement
of phosphorus with silicon. The high-pressure investigation yielded the
result that the superconducting transition temperature increases by a
maximum of approximately 0.14 K upon application of pressure up to 9.90
kbars, with an apparent decrease in T_(c) beyond that pressure. Contrary
to the previous predictions [7], hole doping with Si results in a
systematic decrease of T_(c), despite an apparent increase in γ_(W). Our
specific-heat measurements demonstrate the bulk nature of the
superconductivity in the parent compound as well as the silicon doped
sample with x = 0.2; furthermore, we observe a decrease in α as well as
ΔC/γT_(c), implying that a decreasing coupling strength may be
responsible for the suppression of T_(c). We suggest that the observed
decrease in coupling strength, combined with the suppression of T_(c),
indicates that the vibrational modes and hence the T_(c) in this system
may be highly sensitive to and tunable by modification of the details of
the crystal structure.

The work in Houston, Texas, is supported, in part, by U.S. Air Force
Office of Scientific Research Grant No. FA9550-09-1-0656, the T.L.L.
Temple Foundation, the John J. and Rebecca Moores Endowment, and the
State of Texas through the Texas Center for Superconductivity at the
University of Houston.

## References

* [1] T. Takayama, K. Kuwano, D. Hirai, Y. Katsura, A. Yamamoto, and H.
Takagi, Phys. Rev. Lett. **108**, 237001 (2012). * [2] E. Bauer, G.
Hilscher, H. Michor, C. Paul, E. Scheidt, A. Gribanov, Y. Seropegin, H.
Noel, M. Sigrist, and P. Rogl, Phys. Rev. Lett. **92**, 027003 (2004). *
[3] A. Subedi, L. Ortenzi, and L. Boeri, Phys. Rev. B **87**, 144504
(2013). * [4] R. Szczesniak, A. P. Durajski, and L. Herok, Phys. Scr.
**89**, 125701 (2014). * [5] C.-J. Kang, K.-H. Ahn, K.-W. Lee, and B. I.
Min, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **82**, 053703 (2013). * [6] H. Chen, X. Xu, C.
Cao, and J. Dai, Phys. Rev. B **86**, 125116 (2012). * [7] I. a.
Nekrasov and M. V. Sadovskii, JETP Lett. **96**, 227 (2012). * [8] B.
Lorenz and C. Chu, in _Frontiers in Superconducting Materials_, edited
by A. V. Narlikar (Springer, Berlin, 2005), pp. 459-497. * [9] W.
McMillan, Phys. Rev. **167**, 331 (1968). * [10] P. Allen and R. Dynes,
Phys. Rev. B **12**, 905 (1975). * [11] H. Padamsee, J. E. Neighbor, and
C. A. Shiffman, J. Low Temp. Phys. **12**, 387 (1973). * [12] D. C.
Johnston, Supercond. Sci. Technol. **26**, 115011 (2013). * [13] R.
Khasanov, A. Amato, P. K. Biswas, H. Luetkens, N. D. Zhigoldo, and B.
Batlogg, Phys. Rev. B **90**, 140507 (2014). * [14] Y. Kasahara, T.
Kishiume, T. Takano, K. Kobayashi, E. Matsuoka, H. Onodera, K. Kuroki,
Y. Taguchi, and Y. Iwasa, Phys. Rev. Lett. **103**, 077004 (2009).

Figure 7: (Color online) ΔC/T vs T for (a) SrPt₃P and (b)
SrPt₃P_(0.8)Si_(0.2). (c) C_(d)/γT_(c) vs T/T_(c) for both SrPt₃P
(broadened) and SrPt₃P_(0.8)Si_(0.2). The red lines represent the α
model, and the blue lines represent the BCS theory. Inset: ΔC/T vs T for
SrPt₃P with a broadened transition temperature width.

Copyright of Physical Review B: Condensed Matter & Materials Physics is
the property of American Physical Society and its content may not be
copied or emailed to multiple sites or posted to a listserv without the
copyright holder’s express written permission. However, users may print,
download, or email articles for individual use.
