Effects of the Cu-O chains on the anisotropic penetration depth of
YBa₂Cu₄O₈

Christos Panagopoulos

IRC in Superconductivity, University of Cambridge, Madingley Road,
Cambridge CB3 0HE, United Kingdom

Jeffery L. Tallon

New Zealand Institute for Industrial Research, P.O. Box 31310, Lower
Hutt, New Zealand

Tao Xiang

IRC in Superconductivity, University of Cambridge, Madingley Road,
Cambridge CB3 0HE, United Kingdom

and Institute of Theoretical Physics, Academia Sinica, P.O. Box 2735,
Beijing 100080, People’s Republic of China

21 December 1998

###### Abstract

The temperature, T, dependence of the magnetic penetration depth, l, of
grain-aligned YBa₂Cu₄O₈ has been measured along the _ab_ plane and c
axis. Both l_(b)(_T_) and l_(c)(_T_) vary as $\sqrt{T}$ up to ∼0.4T_(c)
implying a square-root density of states at low energy. The results are
discussed in terms of a proximity model of alternating stacked
superconducting and normal layers. [S0163-1829(99)51310-6]

The anisotropic magnetic penetration depth has been used to study the
systematic behavior of the order parameter, superfluid density, r_(s),
and _c_-axis coupling of high-_T__c_ superconductors (HTS’s).[1, 2] In
the case of YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) (Y-123) and related materials the metallic
Cu-O chains provide an additional electronic system which is responsible
for a number of its enhanced features. Although infrared[3] and muon
spin-relaxation (_m_SR) (Ref. [4]) studies show a strongly anisotropic
penetration depth at T = 0 associated with additional superfluid density
on the chains, the temperature dependence of the superfluid density
remains unclear. Studies on YBa₂Cu₃O_(6.95) single crystals[5] and
magnetically aligned powders[6, 7] showed a linear T dependence at low
temperature. However, we emphasize that these samples possess
significant, albeit small vacancy and interstitial [O(5) site] disorder
on the chains, potentially causing scattering and pair breaking in this
secondary system. Pair breaking is well known to alter the behavior of
the density of states (DOS) and temperature dependence. An alternative,
and in fact ideal, system to obtain information on chain
superconductivity is YBa₂Cu₄O₈ (Y-124) which has two fully oxygenated
chains per unit cell which can be remarkably free of disorder.[8]

With this aim we performed anisotropic magnetic penetration-depth
measurements using the ac-susceptibility technique on magnetically
aligned powders of Y-124. We report the values and temperature
dependence of the in-plane, l_(b), and out-of-plane, l_(c), penetration
depths. The estimated anisotropy ratio l_(c)(0)/_l__ab_(0) = 5 is in
good agreement with earlier infrared[3] and recent resistivity[8]
measurements. Both l_(b) and l_(c) show a unique $\sqrt{T}$ temperature
dependence up to ∼0.4T_(c) indicating a square-root density of states at
low energy. The results are discussed in the context of a multicomponent
superfluid response associated with the double chains in Y-124.

Polycrystalline samples of YBa₂Cu₄O₈ were prepared at 935 ^(∘)C in
oxygen at 6 MPa pressure by stoichiometric solid-state reaction of
high-purity dried powders of CuO, Y₂O₃, and Ba(NO₃)₂, the nitrate being
first decomposed by slow heating of the powders to 710 ^(∘)C in air. The
samples were reacted as die-pressed pellets for a total of 96 h with
intermediate milling and pelletizing every 16 h. X-ray diffraction
showed the samples to be single phase and scanning electron microscope
backscattered images showed the only impurity, CuO, to be present at
less than 0.5

The values of l_(b)(0) and l_(c)(0) derived from our data are 127 +- 17
nm and 615 +- 90 nm, respectively. The results shown here are
characteristic of a set of data obtained for several grain-aligned Y-124
pieces as cut from four different batches of grain-aligned samples all
prepared under the same conditions. Although there was a small variation
in the quantity (+-4

Figure 1(a) shows a plot of the temperature dependence of l_(b) =
l_(b)(_T_). The inset of this figure shows a normalized plot of

[λ_(ab)(0)/λ_(ab)(T)]² compared with the weak-coupling theory for a
d-wave superconductor. Evidently, the T dependence of the superfluid
density exhibits two clear departures from the weak-coupling d-wave
behavior: just below T_(c) where the initial development of superfluid
density is significantly more rapid than the model behavior and below 15
K where there appears to be a further enhancement in superfluid density.
The observed behavior is independent of the magnitude of $H_{\rm ac}$
and f. We stress that in all the HTS materials we have investigated both
behaviors are unique. The distinguishing feature of Y-124 is of course
the double chains which are noted from resistivity studies to be
singularly free of defects.[8]

We note that much earlier μSR investigations of Y-124, Zn-substituted
Y-124, and Y-247 at different oxygen contents, showed signatures for a
distinctive rise in superfluid density at low temperature that had not
been seen in other cuprates.[4, 11] However, the resolution and
temperature spacing was not suitable to adequately characterize this
behavior. This rise in superfluid density which is common to all
high-T_(c) cuprates with double chains must surely be interpreted as a
multicomponent superfluid response associated with the coupled planes
and double chains. Furthermore, more recent evidence by microwave
measurements[12] on YBa₂Cu₃O_(6.95) single crystals grown in BaZrO₃
crucibles also points to a two-component superconductivity although the
chain enhancements to the superfluid density are not as obvious as in
the present case. This is presumably due to the high degree of order on
the Y-124 double chains.

We believe that the enhancements at low and at high temperature both
must be associated with the chains. The jump ΔC_(p)/T_(c) in heat
capacity at T_(c) for Y-124 is 1.1 mJ/g at. K^(2, 15) while for
oxygen-deficient Y-123 with T_(c) = 81 K the jump is only 0.55 mJ/g at.
K^(2, 14) As the jump in heat capacity is a direct measure of the pair
density, the enhancement for Y-124 is probably due to proximity-induced
condensation of carriers on the "double chains" occurring at T_(c). To
underscore the fact that this enhancement in ΔC_(p)/T_(c) is significant
we note that many other properties are identical for Y-124 and
oxygen-deficient Y-123 with the same T_(c). These include the
temperature-dependent Knight shift[15] which mirrors the entropy,
S/T,[16] and the rate of depression of T_(c) with Zn substitution[4, 6]
which indicates that the density of states at T_(c) is the same for the
two compounds.

In Fig. 1(b) we plot λ_(ab)⁻²(T) as a function of (TT_(c))^(1/2). A
striking $\sqrt{T}$ dependence of λ_(ab)⁻²(T) is observed all the way to
∼ 0.4T_(c) . To the best of our knowledge this is the first observation
of a $\sqrt{T}$ power law for λ_(ab)(T), for a cuprate superconductor. A
$\sqrt{T}$ behavior directly implies that the DOS of quasiparticles has
a square-root energy dependence at low energy[17] which differs from the
pure two-dimensional d-wave superconducting system where the low-energy
density of states is linear.

Figure 1: (a) Temperature dependence of the measured λ_(ab)⁻²(T) for
grain-aligned YBa₂Cu₄O₈. The inset shows a normalized plot of
[λ_(ab)(0)/λ_(ab)(T)]² compared with the weak-coupling theory (broken
line) for a d-wave superconductor. (b) The data of (a) replotted as a
function of (TT_(c))^(1/2).

Due to the powder nature of our samples we are not able to measure
separately the a and b components. However, we can estimate the T
dependence of the in-plane anisotropy as follows. μSR studies show the
90 K optimally doped cuprates without chains to have a T= 0 muon spin
depolarization rate of 3.0 μs⁻¹. This corresponds to λ_(a)(0) = 154 nm
[ = λ_(ab)(0) for the nonchain cuprates]. Undelapped cuprates such as
Y-124 have a superfluid density which is diminished by the presence of
the normal-state pseudogap. Using the theory of Williams, Tallon, and
Haines [18] a pseudogap energy sufficient to reduce T_(c) from 93.5 K to
81 K reduces the superfluid density and increases λ_(a)(0) from 154 nm
to 188 nm. This is in excellent agreement with the value 190 nm obtained
by Basov _et al._[3] from infrared studies. Our experimental value for
Y-124 of λ_(ab)(0) = 127 nm allows λ_(b) to be calculated from λ_(ab)² =
λ_(a)λ_(b) (Ref. [19]), giving λ_(b)(0) = 86 nm, again in excellent
agreement with the infrared studies of Basov _et al._[3] This
concurrence gives us confidence in applying the same analysis to the
temperature-dependent data.

Based on previous experience with the cuprates [1, 2, 6, 7, 9] we assume
that λ_(a)⁻² has the weak-coupling d-wave temperature dependence. Using
this temperature dependence for λ_(a)⁻² we determine λ_(b)(T) using
λ_(ab)²(T) = λ_(a)(T)λ_(b)(T). Finally, assuming that for the b
direction, the superfluid density on the chains is additive to that on
the planes, then λ_(chain)⁻² = λ_(b)⁻² - λ_(a)⁻². The T dependence of
these parameters, λ_(ab)⁻², λ_(a)⁻², λ_(b)⁻², and λ_(chain)⁻² is plotted
in Fig. 2(a). It is clear that λ_(b)⁻² shows a pronounced increase at
low T and λ_(chain)⁻² even more so. Surprisingly, the enhancement
actually starts from T_(c). The details of the deduced T dependence are
of course influenced by our assumptions in extracting λ_(b)⁻² but it is
clear that the strong enhancement below T_(c) is evident in the basic
data for λ_(ab)⁻². Factors which might affect the T dependence here
include phase fluctuations, inelastic scattering, and the strongly
T-dependent anisotropy.

Following the ideas of Kresin _et al._[20] and other authors [21] on
proximity-induced chain superconductivity, Xiang and Wheatley [17] (XW)
have investigated a model system of coupled CuO₂ planes and CuO chains
exploring two scenarios: (i) a proximity model where plane and chain
layers are coupled through single electron tunneling, and (ii) an
interlayer pair-tunneling model where planes and chains are Josephson
coupled. For the former they found, to the leading order approximation,
the low-temperature limits $\rho_{b}^{*}\!\sim\!\sqrt{T}$ for the b axis
and ρ_(c)^(*) − T for the c axis, while for the latter ρ_(b)^(*)∼ T and
ρ_(c)^(*) was found to follow a T² dependence. The low-temperature data
shown in Figs. 1 and 2 agree well with the proximity model although the
enhancement seen near T_(c) is not predicted. However, we note that the
XW model is valid only at low temperatures, where in fact agreement with
experiment is found.

Figure 3(a) shows the T dependence of λ_(c)⁻² and here also there is a
clear enhancement in the superfluid just below T_(c) and, notably, a
$\sqrt{T}$ dependence at low T. Below 0.1T_(c) the data tends towards
linear but it is not clear whether this is significant without lower
temperature data. In Figs. 2(b) and 3(b) we report λ_(b)⁻²(T) and
λ_(c)⁻²(T) as functions of (T/T_(c))^(1/2). For both, the $\sqrt{T}$
dependence persists to rather high values of T/T_(c). An enhancement in
the low temperature λ_(c)(T) is a natural consequence of the proximity
model but XW predict this enhancement to vary linearly with T rather
than as the experimentally observed $\sqrt{T}$ dependence. However, we
emphasize that the λ_(c)(T) theoretical result is purely numerical. We
can only assume that this feature did not emerge from the XW analysis
because their approach did not incorporate the double chains of the
Y-124 compound. c-axis transport necessarily involves some b-axis
transport along the chains because of the b/2 offset of the chains
relative to each other. In this case, to analyze the detailed T
dependence of λ_(c), a proximity (NSSN)
                                                          $\!

 We turn now to the rapid rise in the observed superfluid density, just below \(T_{c}$
. We find unlikely the possibility that, with the onset of
superconductivity there occurs additional charge transfer from the
chains to the planes giving a growth in superfluid density towards a
value more in line with a higher doping state and a higher T_(c) . Such
charge transfer would be a natural consequence of the condensation
energy on the planes being higher than on the chains. Bond valence sums
(BVS’s) provide a means to assess doping state and charge transfer
within the high-T_(c) cuprates. The parameter
$V_{-}\!=\!2+V_{\rm CuO2}\!-\!V_{\rm O(2)}\!-\!V_{\rm O(3)}$,, where
$V_{\rm Cu}$ is the copper BVS and $V_{\rm O(2)}$ and $V_{\rm O(3)}$ are
the oxygen BVS’s, has been found to provide a reliable estimate of the
hole concentration, p, on the CuO₂ planes.[25] We have calculated the
temperature dependence of V⁻ from bond lengths using the neutron
structural refinements of Kaldis _et al.[26]_ and find no systematic
variation above or below T_(c) within ±0.003.

In summary, using the ac-susceptibility method on grain-aligned
YBa₂Cu₄O₈ we have measured the anisotropic penetration depths λ_(ab)(T)
and λ_(c)(T) and compared the data with a recent proximity-coupled
model. We find that both λ_(ab)⁻² and λ_(c)⁻² possess a $\sqrt{T}$
dependence at low temperature. Such a behavior is not seen in other HTS
cuprates and is attributable to the effect of the double Cu-O chains on
the T dependence of the superfluid density, resulting in a new type,
$\sqrt{T}$, of low-temperature DOS.

C.P. would like to thank Trinity College, Cambridge for financial
support. J.L.T. thanks the Royal Society of New Zealand for financial
support.

## References

* [1] C. Panagopoulos _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **79**, 2320 (1997). *
[2] C. Panagopoulos and T. Xiang, Phys. Rev. Lett. **81**, 2336
(1998). * [3] D. N. Basov _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **74**, 598 (1995);
Phys. Rev. B **50**, 3511 (1994). * [4] J. L. Tallon _et al._, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **74**, 1008 (1995). * [5] W. N. Hardy _et al._, in
_Proceedings of the 10th Anniversary HTS Workshop_ (World Scientific,
Singapore, 1996), p. 223. * [6] C. Panagopoulos _et al._, Phys. Rev. B
**54**, R12 721 (1996). * [7] C. Panagopoulos, J. R. Cooper, and T.
Xiang, Phys. Rev. B **57**, 13 422 (1998). * [8] N. E. Hussey _et al._,
Phys. Rev. B **56**, R11 423 (1997). * [9] C. Panagopoulos _et al._,
Phys. Rev. B **53**, R2999 (1996). * [10] D. Shoenberg,
_Superconductivity_ (Cambridge University, Cambridge, 1954), p. 164. *
[11] C. Bernhard _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **52**, 10 488 (1995). * [12] H.
Srikanth _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **55**, R14 733 (1997). * [13] A. Junod
_et al._, Physica C **168**, 47 (1990). * [14] J. W. Loram _et al._,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **71**, 1740 (1993). * [15] R. Dupree _et al._, Physica
C **179**, 311 (1991). * [16] J. W. Loram _et al._, _Advances in
Superconductivity VII_ (Springer-Verlag, Tokyo, 1995), p. 75. * [17] T.
Xiang and J. M. Wheatley, Phys. Rev. Lett. **76**, 134 (1996). * [18] G.
V. M. Williams, J. L. Tallon, and E. M. Haines, Phys. Rev. B **57**, 146
(1998). * [19] W. Barford and J. M. F. Gunn, Physica C **156**, 515
(1988). * [20] V. Z. Kresin, S. A. Wolf, and G. Deutscher, Physica C
**191**, 9 (1992). * [21] R. A. Klemm and S. H. Liu, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**74**, 2343 (1995). * [22] P. W. Anderson, _The Theory of
Superconductivity in the High-T_(c) Cuprates_ (Princeton University,
Princeton, NJ, 1997). * [23] See, for example, G. Er, Y. Miyamoto, F.
Kanamaru, and S. Kikkawa, Physica C **181**, 206 (1991). * [24] G. V. M.
Williams _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **54**, 9532 (1996). * [25] J. L.
Tallon, Physica C **176**, 547 (1991). * [26] E. Kaldis _et al._,
Physica C **159**, 668 (1989).
