Superconductivity in iron silicide Lu₂Fe₃Si₅ probed by radiation-induced
disordering

A. E. Karkin,^(*) M. R. Yangirov, Yu. N. Akshentsev, and B. N.
Goshchitskii

Institute of Metal Physics UB RAS, 18 S. Kovalevskii Street,
Ekaterinburg 620219, Russia

Received 14 January 2011; revised manuscript received 6 May 2011;
published 16 August 2011

###### Abstract

Resistivity ρ(T), Hall coefficient $R_{\rm H}(T)$, superconducting
temperature T_(c), and the slope of the upper critical field −dH_(c2)/dT
were studied in poly- and single-crystalline samples of the Fe-based
superconductor Lu₂Fe₃Si₅ irradiated by fast neutrons. Atomic disordering
induced by the neutron irradiation leads to a fast suppression of T_(c)
similarly to the case of doping of Lu₂Fe₃Si₅ with magnetic (Dy) and
nonmagnetic (Sc, Y) impurities. The same effect was observed in a novel
FeAs-based superconductor La(O-F)FeAs after irradiation. Such behavior
is accounted for by strong pair breaking that is traceable to scattering
at nonmagnetic impurities or radiation defects in these unconventional
superconductors. In such superconductors, the sign of the order
parameter changes between the different Fermi sheets (s^(±) model). Some
relations that are specified for the properties of the normal and
superconducting states in high-temperature superconductors are also
observed in Lu₂Fe₃Si₅. The first is the relationship
−dH_(c2)/dT ∼ T_(c), which allows us to assign the compound Lu₂Fe₃Si₅ to
type II superconductors in the clean limit. The second is a correlation
between the low-temperature linear coefficient a in the resistivity
ρ = ρ₀ + a₁T, which appears presumably due to the scattering at magnetic
fluctuations, and T_(c), this correlation being an evidence of a tight
relation between the superconductivity and magnetism. Data point to an
unconventional (nonphononic) mechanism of superconductivity in Lu₂Fe₃Si₅
and probably in some other Fe-based compounds, which can be fruitfully
studied via the radiation-induced disordering.

pacs: 72.15.Gd, 74.62.Dh, 74.62.En + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL
REVIEW B **84**, 054541 (2011)

## I Introduction

The discovery of high-temperature superconductivity in layered
iron-based compounds [1] has stimulated active experimental and
theoretical studies of these systems in view of the possibility of the
Cooper pairing of charge carriers of anomalous type. Hence, a systematic
study of the disordering effects in new superconductors is especially
important. [2] According to the Anderson theorem, [3] nonmagnetic
impurities do not cause a suppression of the superconductivity in the
case of a conventional _s_-type isotropic pairing. If the singlet
pairing is traceable to the exchange of spin excitations, the
requirement for this is the symmetry with a sign-changing order
parameter. [4] Evidently, such requirement is fulfilled in high-T_(c)
cuprates, where pairing with the _d_-wave symmetry is realized, while
the pairing process is broken by the intraband scattering at nonmagnetic
centers. [4, 5, 6] In the FeAs-based superconductors, the ordering
parameter has the _s_-type symmetry. Therefore, a generally accepted
model is the _s^(±)_ model, which treats a superconducting state with
the opposite signs of the ordering parameter for electrons and holes.
[7, 8, 4] In this case, nonmagnetic scatters must lead to the
suppression of superconductivity due to the interband scattering between
the electron- and hole-type Fermi surfaces. [4, 5, 9] Thus, the study of
the atomic disordering in superconducting systems in which nonmagnetic
scatters are generated allows one to reveal the symmetry of the ordering
parameter.

Fast-neutron irradiation is the most effective method of atomic
disordering, which was successfully applied earlier in investigation of
a number of high-temperature superconductors. In the superconductors
with strong electron-phonon interaction of the A-15 type, a decrease in
the temperature of the superconducting transition T_(c), as in Nb₃Sn or
Y₃Si (or increase in the T_(c), as in Mo₃Si or Mo₃Ge), upon irradiation
takes place because of decrease (increase) in density of states
$N(E_{\rm F})$. [10] In the two-gap superconductor MgB₂, irradiation
results in a relatively weak decrease of T_(c), [10, 11, 12] which is
largely due to the averaging of the gaps caused by the interband
scattering at nonmagnetic impurities. [9] In the above examples, T_(c)
remains finite upon radiation atomic disordering; the origin of such
behavior is the electron-phonon nature of superconductivity in these
compounds. Except for particular cases when disordering leads to
localization of the charge carriers (the density of states of mobile
carriers is equal to zero), in the majority of metallic systems
$N(E_{\rm F})$, the width of superconducting gap remain finite upon
atomic disordering and, consequently, T_(c) does not vanish.

In the Cu-based superconductors, such as YBa₂Cu₃O₃, [10, 13, 14, 15, 16,
17] as well as the FeAs-based superconductors, [18, 19, 20] the fast and
complete suppression of superconductivity under the high-energy particle
irradiation, characteristic of the d pairing, most likely evidences a
more exotic (nonphononic) pairing mechanism.

In the early ’80s, several investigations were carried out to understand
the superconductivity exhibited by compounds belonging to the R₂Fe₃Si₅
system. [21, 22, 23, 24] These compounds crystallize in a tetragonal
structure of the Sc₂Fe₃Si₅ type, consisting of a quasi-one-dimensional
iron chain along the c axis and quasi-two-dimensional iron squares
parallel to the basal plane. In Lu₂Fe₃Si₅, the superconductivity occurs
at T_(c)∼ 6.0 K, which is exceptionally high among the Fe-based
compounds other than the FeAs family. Moreover, a remarkable decrease of
T_(c) by nonmagnetic impurities [25, 26, 27] also testifies to an
unconventional origin of the superconductivity in these compounds.

This paper reports the results of studying the radiation-induced
disordering effects on the properties of the superconducting and normal
states of Lu₂Fe₃Si₅. It was expected that the irradiation defects, as
well as impurities, such as Sc and Y, would create nonmagnetic
scattering centers without substantial changes of the band structure.
However, substitution of Lu with atoms of the same valences cannot
produce a significant disorder (disorder appears in this case as a
result of some lattice distortions in the vicinity of substituted
sites), while the fast-neutron irradiation allows one to create defects
with a much higher scattering ability and, hence, a stronger disorder
can be gained. Studies of the states with a strong atomic disordering
are of a paramount importance, since, judging from the observed (∼50

In the present study, our attention is focused on the effect of
disordering on T_(c) and the slope of the upper critical field
−dH_(c2)/dT, as well as their correlations with the normal-state
properties, the disordering-induced changes in the crystal structure
being beyond the scope of the work.

## II Experimental details and results

Samples of Lu₂Fe₃Si₅ were prepared by arc melting stoichiometric amounts
of high-purity elements. To improve the homogeneity of polycrystalline
samples, they were annealed at 1200 degC for 19 hours. Single crystals
1.3 × 0.15 × 0.15 mm in size were obtained by annealing of the
arc-melted ingot at 1720 degC for 2 hours.

The resistivity ρ and Hall coefficient $R_{\rm{H}}$ were measured using
the standard four-point method with the reverse of the directions of the
DC current and magnetic field and switching over between the current and
potential leads.[28] The electric contacts were made by ultrasonic
soldering with indium. Measurements were performed in the temperature
range T = 1.5-380 K in magnetic fields up to 13.6 T. The polycrystalline
samples were irradiated with fast neutrons with the fluence Φ = 2 × 10¹⁹
cm⁻² (for neutron energies $E_{\rm{n}}$> 0.1 MeV) at the irradiation
temperature $T_{\rm{irr}}$ = 50 ± 10 degC. The single-crystal samples
were irradiated with the lower fluence Φ = 5 × 10¹⁸ cm⁻². The samples of
both types were annealed isochorally for 0.5 h in vacuum in the
temperature range of $T_{\rm{am}}$ = 50-1000 degC with a 50 degC step.

The irradiation to the fast-neutron fluence Φ = 2 × 10¹⁹ cm⁻²
(polycrystalline samples) and Φ = 5 × 10¹⁸ cm⁻² (single crystals)
suppresses the superconductivity and results in significant changes in
the resistivity curves ρ(_T_). Sequential annealings in the range of
$T_{\rm{am}}$ = 100-1000 degC lead to a practically complete restoration
of the sample properties in both the normal and superconducting states.

Figures 1(a) and 1(b) show the temperature dependences of the
resisitivity ρ(_T_) for the polycrystalline and single crystal samples,
respectively, representing pristine, irradiated, and annealed states.
Both sets of data are very similar, taking into account the anisotropy
of resistivity $\rho_{\rm{e}}b/\rho_{c}$∼ 4,[27] whereas the percolation
model[29] predicts that the ratio of the polycrystalline sample
resistivity ρ to the single-crystal resistivity $\rho_{\rm{c}}$ must be
$\rho/\rho_{\rm{c}}$∼ 2.7.

Figure 1: (Color online) (a) Temperature dependences of the normal-state
(T>T_(c)) resisitivity ρ for the pristine, irradiated to the neutron
fluence Φ = 2 × 10¹⁹ cm⁻², and annealed Lu₂Fe₃Si₅ polycrystalline
samples. (b) Temperature dependences of the resisitivity in the c
direction ρ_(c) for the pristine, irradiated to the neutron fluence Φ =
5 × 10¹⁸ cm⁻², and annealed Lu₂Fe₃Si₅ single crystals. Keys to curves:
pristine sample (Pris), irradiated sample (Irr), digits denote annealing
temperature in °C.

The slope dρ/dT at high temperatures T = 100-380 K decreases with
increasing ρ₀. A similar saturation of the resistivity is observed in
many strongly disordered metallic compounds, including many compounds
irradiated by fast neutrons.[10]

In the temperature range 10  < T< 70 K, the ρ(T) curves for the
single-crystal sample at low ρ₀ = 5-40 μΩ cm obey a quadratic law
ρ(T) = ρ₀ + a₂T² with a₂ ∼ 4 ⋅ 10⁻³μΩ cm/K² (Fig. 2). When fitting
curves with a power function ρ(T) = ρ₀ + a₂T^(k), the index k varies
within the limits from 2.02 to 2.12. Similar behavior is observed for
the polycrystalline sample: a₂ is approximately constant at ρ₀ = 5-50 μΩ
cm and slightly decreases with the further increase in ρ₀ (Fig. 1).

At lower temperatures T< 10 K, the resistivity curves are described
better by linear functions ρ(T) = a₀ + a₁T for the superconducting
samples (ρ₀< 10 μΩ cm, Fig. 3), while for the nonsuperconducting samples
(ρ₀> 40 μΩ cm), a small negative slope dρ/dT< 0 is observed.

The Hall coefficient $R_{\rm H}$ for the pristine polycrystalline sample
is relatively small and slightly temperature dependent, which is in
agreement with the measurements of $R_{\rm H}$ on single crystals, as
well as the data on the Fermi surfaces calculated for Lu₂Fe₃Si₅ by the
full potential linearized augmented plane wave (FLAPW) method. The Fermi
surface consists of two holelike bands and one electronlike band,[31] so
that the hole and electronic contributions to the Hall coefficient are
almost compensated. The irradiation does not lead to a considerable
change in $R_{\rm H}$ (Fig. 4), which serves as a kind of evidence that
there are no essential doping effects due to the disordering induced by
the fast-neutron irradiation.

Fig. 5 sums the results of annealing of the polycrystalline and
single-crystal samples. The reduced resistivity ρ₀/ρ₃₀₀, which is a good
measure of the electron mean-free path in Lu₂Fe₃Si₅,[27] shows a similar
behavior in the single- and polycrystals as a function of the annealing
temperature $T_{\rm am}$. The intensive recovery of ρ₀/ρ₃₀₀ begins at
$T_{\rm am}$≥ 600 ^(∘)C only; the radiation defects still survive at
relatively high annealing temperatures $T_{\rm am}$∼ 900 ^(∘)C.

To compare the suppression of the superconductivity under irradiation
with the results of doping with nonmagnetic impurities,[32, 33, 34] we
have drawn T_(c) determined at 0.5 the normal-state resistivity as a
function of the reduced resistivity ρ₀/ρ₃₀₀ (Fig. 6), which does not
depend on the sample quality (poly- or single crystal). With increasing
ρ₀/ρ₃₀₀, the T_(c) value is seen to decrease similarly in both the
irradiated and doped samples; it goes to zero at ρ₀/ρ₃₀₀≈ 0.3, which
corresponds to ρ₀≈ 80 and ≈40 μΩ cm for the polycrystalline and
single-crystal samples, respectively. A common dependence of T_(c) on
ρ₀/ρ₃₀₀, quite apparent at the starting portion ρ₀/ρ₃₀₀≤ 0.15, indicates
that the only reason for the T_(c) decrease, both under irradiation and
doping, is the appearance of scattering centers.

Figure 3: (Color online) Temperature dependences of resistivity ρ_(c)
for the Lu₂Fe₃Si₅ single crystal. Keys to curves are the same as in
Fig. 1. The points are collected from the curves at T > T_(c) in
magnetic fields up to 13.6 T with the correction for magnetoresistance.
Solid and dotted lines present a linear low-temperature and a quadratic
high-temperature approximation, respectively. Inset shows the linear
coefficient a₁ in the equation ρ(T) = a₀ + a₁T as a function of T_(c)
for (1) Lu₂Fe₃Si₅, (2) Fe-based system Ba(Fe_(1 − x)Co_(x))₂As₂, and (3)
Cu-based system Ti₂Ba₂CoO${}_{6+\rm{i}}$ (Ref. [30]).

Figure 2: (Color online) Resisitivity ρ as a function of T² for the
Lu₂Fe₃Si₅ single crystal. Keys to curves are the same as in Fig. 1.

Figure 4: (Color online) Temperature dependence of the Hall coefficient
$R_{\rm H}$ for the Lu₂Fe₅Si₅ poly-cristaline sample: (1) pristine state
and (2) irradiated and annealed at 75 ^(∘)C.

Figure 5: (Color online) Reduced resistivity ρ₀/ρ₁₀₀ and T_(c) as a
function of annealing temperature $T_{\rm am}$ for (1) polycrystalline
and (2) single-crystal Lu₂Fe₅Si₅ samples, irradiated to fast-neutron
fluence Φ = 2 × 10¹⁹ cm⁻² and Φ = 5 × 10¹⁸ cm⁻², respectively. The
dashed and dotted horizontal lines show the levels of ρ₀/ρ₁₀₀ and T_(c)
for the pristine polycrystalline and single-crystal samples,
respectively.

Figure 6: (Color online) T_(c) as a function of ρ₀/ρ₁₀₀ for the
irradiated and annealed polycrystalline (○) and single-crystal (□)
Lu₂Fe₅Si₅ samples and (L-u-R)₂Fe₅Si₅ (R= Y, Sc, Dy) single crystals (▿)
(Ref. [27]); straight line is drawn by eye. Inset shows t = T_(c)/T_(c0)
vs g = ℏ/(2πk_(B)T_(c0)τ) for the polycrystalline (○) and single-crystal
(□) Lu₂Fe₅Si₅ samples and irradiated La(O-F)FeAs sample (•) (Ref. [18]).

Figure 7 shows the slope of the upper critical field −dH_(c2)/dT
determined at 0.9 the normal-state resistivity as a function of T_(c)
for the irradiated and annealed Lu₂Fe₃Si₅ polycrystalline and
single-crystal samples. The relationship
(−dH_(c2)/dT)_(c) ≈ 2(−dH_(c2)/dT)_(ab) holds well for all
superconducting crystals, which evidences that the topology of the Fermi
surface is not significantly changed by irradiation.

The observed behavior can be roughly approximated by a linear
dependence. The similar behavior features many FeAs-based compounds.[39]
It is worth mentioning that −dH_(c2)/dT∼T_(c) is predicted for type II
superconductors in the clean limit, while in the dirty limit, the
opposite dependence −dH_(c2)/dT∼ρ₀ (that is, the −dH_(c2)/dT growth upon
decreasing T_(c)) takes place.

The estimation of g = tξ₀/l has shown (Fig. 6) that the superconducting
samples belong to the clean (ξ₀ ≪ l) or the intermediate (ξ₀ ≈ l) limit
for the samples with T_(c) ≈ 5 K or T_(c) ≈ 1.5 K, respectively. In the
expression for the slope of the upper critical field
−dH_(c2)/dT=ϕ₀/(0.69 × 2πξ²T_(c)), the coherent length ξ can be written
in the intermediate limit as

1/ξ² ≈ (1/ξ₀)(1/ξ₀ + 1/l),
(3)

and, hence, dH_(c2)/dT depends on T_(c) and ρ₀ as

−dH_(c2)/dT ≈ c₁T_(c)ρ₀.
(4)

Figure 8 shows such dependence in the coordinates (−dH_(c2)/dT)/T_(c) as
a function of ρ₀/T_(c). In the limit ρ₀/T_(c) → 0, the intercept gives
the coherent length ξ = ξ₀ in the clean limit (ξ₀ ≈ 100 A, ξ_(0ab) ≈ 50
A). According to Eqs. (3) and (4), at the doubled intersect, we get
ξ₀ = l (vertical line in Fig. 8).

According to Fig. 8, the ration ξ₀/l = g/t = 1 in the single-crystal
sample corresponds to ρ₀ ∼ 30μΩ cm, T_(c) ∼ 1.5 K. This is in a
qualitative agreement with the estimation of g according to Eq. (2);
g = t (Fig. 6) corresponds to ρ₀ ∼ 15μΩ cm, T_(c) ∼ 4 K.

Thus, our estimations of the relation between ξ₀ and l clearly show that
the pristine Lu₂Fe₃Si₅ samples with T_(c) ≈ 5 K are ascribed to the
clean limit ξ₀ ≪ l. On the other hand, these estimations are in a visual
disagreement with the relation between the anisotropy of resistivities
ρ_(ab)/ρ_(c) and slopes of the upper critical field
(dH_(c2)/dT_(c)/dH_(c2)/dT_(ab)=ξ_(c)/ξ_(ab). In the clean limit,
ξ_(ab, c) ≈ (ξ₀)_(ab, c), and, hence, the anisotropy of the upper
critical field is proportional to ρ_(ab)/ρ_(c), while in the dirty
limit, ξ_(ab, c) ≈ [(ξ₀)_(ab, c)]^(1/2), and the anisotropy of the upper
critical field is proportional to (ρ_(ab)/ρ_(c))^(1/2). As it was
mentioned above, the anisotropy of the upper critical field for the
single crystal in the pristine, irradiated, and annealed states is close
to two. The anisotropy of the resistivities (in the pristine sample)
ρ_(ab)/ρ_(c) is approximately equal to four,[27] which means that the
state is closer to the dirty limit. On the other hand, estimations of l,
using the values of ρ₀ and low-temperature Hall coefficient R_(H)
reported in Ref. [27], yield for the pristine sample ξ_(ab) ∼ 50 A and
l_(ab) ∼ 200 A, which allows the sample state to be referred to the
clean limit; however, such estimations for many-band systems are
invalid. Another way of estimating l is to employ the data for the
strongly disordered sample in which ρ weakly depends on temperature
ρ ∼ ρ_(sat). Assuming that in

Figure 7: (Color online) The slope of the upper critical field
−dH_(c2)/dT as a function of T_(c) for the irradiated and annealed
Lu₂Fe₃Si₅ samples. (1) and (2) single crystal, H is parallel to the ab
and c directions, respectively; (3) polycrystalline sample.

this region l has a value of the order of atomic spacing d ∼ 5 A, one
can independently estimate l based on the relationship
$\rho_{0c}\sim\rho_{\rm sat}(d/l)$. Specifying for the single-crystal
sample $\rho_{\rm sat}\sim 250$μΩ cm, we obtain for the pristine sample
the value ρ_(0c) ∼ 5μΩ cm and l_(c) ∼ 250 A, which again are assigned to
the clean limit. Obviously, to resolve the contradiction, direct
measurements are necessary, which were impossible to perform in our
crystals because of a too large (∼10) ratio of the sample dimensions in
the directions c and a.

Similar estimations can be made for the parameter g = tξ_(0c)/l_(c).
They show that the superconductivity disappears at g ∼ 2 in agreement
with the estimates of g by Eq. (2) (inset in Fig. 6). However, this
estimate, just as the previous ones, is rather rough and unsuitable for
such many-band systems as Lu₂Fe₃Si₅. Yet, with allowance for all
possible uncertainties in the estimation of g, the AG model predicts a
markedly faster degradation of superconductivity than is observed in
experiments.

Returning to the correlation between the linear term in resistivity a₁
and T_(c) (inset in Fig. 3), it is worth mentioning that the relation
T_(c) ∼ a₁ is an attribute of many unconventional superconductors. The
T_(c)-vs-a₁ correlation is very close to that observed for the Fe- and
Cu-based high-T_(c) superconductors. This correlation does not seem
evident in our case of the irradiated Lu₂Fe₃Si₅ sample, since the a₁
term in the low-T resistivity is significantly masked by the logarithmic
term for the samples with T_(c) ≲ 3 K. On the other hand, at T > 10 K,
the quadratic term dominates, since the linear term for Lu₂Fe₃Si₅ is
much less than that for high-T_(c) superconductors, which is due to the
low value of T_(c) ∼ 6 K in Lu₂Fe₃Si₅ in comparison with T_(c) ∼ 100 K
in high-T_(c) superconductors. When fitting the curves with the power
function ρ(T) = ρ₀ + a₁T^(k), the index k varies in the range 1.0-1.4,
which noticeably differs from that for the quadratic dependence (Fig.
3). In any case, the presence of a quasilinear term in the
low-temperature electrical conductivity is beyond question.

The linear-in-T resistivity can be explained by the existence of
two-dimensional AF spin fluctuations in the theory of nearly AF
metals.[40; 41] The AF fluctuations are enhanced significantly near the
AF phase in optimally doped high-T_(c) superconductors, where the
temperature dependence of the resistivity changes from the T² to T law.
In Lu₂Fe₃Si₅, with the lower T_(c), the linear term is meaningful only
at low T < 10 K (Fig. 3), while at higher 10 < T < 70 K, the T² term
predominates (Fig. 2).

## III Conclusions

In conclusion, our results show the fast decrease of the superconducting
temperature T_(c) in the Lu₂Fe₃Si₅ samples under fast-neutron
irradiation. The uniform dependence of T_(c) on the residual resistivity
ρ₀ for the case of both irradiation and doping evidences that the
decrease in T_(c) is due to the presence of nonmagnetic scattering
centers. The slow changes in the Hall coefficient $R_{\rm H}$ and
$({\rm d}H_{c2}/{\rm d}T)_{c}/({\rm d}H_{c2}/{\rm d}T)_{ab}$ show that
there are no substantial changes in the topology of the Fermi surface
caused by irradiation.

The superconductivity disappears when the coherent length ξ₀ becomes
larger than the mean-free path l, g = tξ₀/l > 1. Such behavior is very
similar to that observed in FeAs-based superconductors, but the T_(c)
decrease is ∼5 times as slow as that predicted based on the
Abrikosov-Gor’kov equation, which describes the superconductivity
suppression by nonmagnetic impurities (defects) for the case of d and
s^(±) pairing.

Our estimations show that the observed correlation of T_(c) with the
slope of the upper critical field $-{\rm d}H_{c2}/{\rm d}T$ in the
irradiated polycrystalline and single-crystal Lu₂Fe₃Si₅ samples (and
probably in other Fe-based superconductors) has a trivial origin: by
their state, the superconducting samples belong to the clean ξ₀ ≪ l (at
worst, to the intermediate ξ₀ ≈ l) limit.

The observed correlation of the liner term a₁ in the resistivity
ρ(T) = a₀ + a₁T with T_(c) testify to the significance of spin
fluctuations in the formation of the superconducting state in Lu₂Fe₃Si₅.

## Acknowledgement

This work was carried out with the partial support of the Program of
Basic Research of the Presidium of RAS "Condensed Matter Quantum
Physics" (Project No. 09-Π-2-1005 UB RAS).

## References

* (1) Y. Kamihara, T. Watanabe, M. Hirano, and H. Hosono, J. Am. Chem.
Soc. **130**, 3296 (2008). * (2) M. V. Sadovskii, Usp. Fiz. Nauk
**178**, 1243 (2008); Phys. Usp. **51**, 1201 (2008). * (3) P. W.
Anderson, J. Phys. Chem. Solids **11**, 26 (1959). * (4) I. I. Mazin and
J. Schmalian, Physica C **469**, 614 (2009). * (5) Y. Senga and H.
Kontani, New J. Phys. **11**, 035005 (2009). * (6) S. Onari and H.
Kontani, Phys. Rev. Lett. **103**, 177001 (2009). * (7) I. I. Mazin, D.
J. Singh, M. D. Johannes, and M. H. Du, Phys. Rev. Lett. **101**, 057003
(2008). * (8) K. Kuroki, S. Onari, R. Arita, H. Usui, Y. Tanaka, H.
Kontani, and H. Aoki, Phys. Rev. Lett. **101**, 087004 (2008). * (9) A.
A. Golubov and I. I. Mazin, Phys. Rev. B **55**, 15146 (1997). * (10) A.
E. Karkin and B. N. Goshchitskii, Part. Nucl. **37**, 807 (2006). * (11)
A. E. Karkin, V. I. Voronin, T. V. D’yachkova, N. I. Kadyrova, A. P.
Tyutyunik, V. G. Zubkov, Yu. G. Zainulin, M. V. Sadovskii, and B. N.
Goshchitskii, JETPH Letters **73**, 570 (2001). * (12) M. Putti, V.
Braccini, C. Ferdeghini, F. Gatti, P. Manfrinetti, D. Marre, A.
Palenzona, I. Pallecchi, C. Tarantini, I. Sheikin, H. U. Aebersold, and
E. Lehmann, Appl. Phys. Lett. **86**, 112503 (2005). * (13) B. A.
Aleksashin, I. F. Berger, S. V. Verkhovskii, V. I. Voronin, B. N.
Goshchitskii, S. A. Davydov, A. E. Karkin, A. V. Mirmelstein, V. I.
Kozhevnikov, K. N. Mikhaylov, V. D. Parkhomenko, and S. M. Cheshnitskii,
Physica C **153-155**, 339 (1988). * (14) F. Rullier-Albenque, H.
Alloul, and R. Tourbot, Phys. Rev. Lett. **91**, 047001 (2003).

* [15] Y. Nakajima, Y. Tsuchiya, T. Teen, T. Tamegai, S. Okayasu, and M.
Sasase, Phys. Rev. B **80**, 012510 (2009). * [16] M. Eisterer, H. W.
Weber, J. Jiang, J. D. Weiss, A. Yamamoto, A. A. Polyanskii, E. E.
Hellstrom, and D. C. Larbalestier, Supercon. Sci. Technol. **22**,
065015 (2009). * [17] M. Eisterer, M. Zehetmayer, H. W. Weber, J. Jiang,
J. D. Weiss, A. Yamamoto, and E. E. Hellstrom, Supercon. Sci. Technol.
**22**, 095011 (2009). * [18] A. E. Karkin, J. Werner, G. Behr, and B.
N. Goshchitskii, Phys. Rev. B **80**, 174512 (2009). * [19] C.
Tarantini, M. Putti, A. Gurevich, Y. Shen, R. K. Singh, J. M. Rowell, N.
Newman, D. C. Larbalestier, P. Cheng, Y. Jia, and H. H. Wen, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **104**, 087002 (2010). * [20] Y. Nakajima, T. Teen, Y. Tsuchiya,
T. Tamegai, H. Kitamura, and T. Murakami, Phys. Rev. B **82**, 220504
(2010). * [21] H. F. Braun, Phys. Lett. A **75**, 386 (1980). * [22] H.
F. Braun, C. U. Segre, F. Acker, M. Rosenberg, S. Dey, and U. Deppe, J.
Magn. Magn. Mater. **25**, 117 (1981). * [23] A. R. Moodenbaugh, D. E.
Cox, and H. F. Braun, Phys. Rev. B **25**, 4702 (1982). * [24] C. B.
Vining and R. N. Shelton, Phys. Rev. B **28**, 2732 (1983). * [25] Y. Xu
and R. N. Shelton, Solid State Commun. **68**, 395 (1988). * [26] H. F.
Braun and C. U. Segre, Bull. Am. Phys. Soc. **26**, 343 (1981). * [27]
T. Watanabe, H. Sasame, H. Okuyama, K. Takase, and Y. Takano, Phys. Rev.
B **80**, 100502(R) (2009). * [28] A. E. Karkin, S. V. Naumov, B. N.
Goshchitskii, and A. M. Balbashov, JETP **100**, 1142 (2005). * [29] S.
Kirkpatrick, Rev. Mod. Phys. **45**, 574 (1973). * [30] N.
Doiron-Leyraud, P. Auban-Senzier, S. Rene de Cotret, C. Bourbonnais, D.
Jerome, K. Bechgaard, and L. Taillefer, Phys. Rev. B **80**, 214531
(2009). * [31] Y. Nakajima, T. Nakagawa, T. Tamegai, and H. Harima,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **100**, 157001 (2008). * [32] Y. Xu and R. N. Shelton,
Solid State Commun. **68**, 395 (1988). * [33] H. F. Braun and C. U.
Segre, Bull. Am. Phys. Soc. **26**, 343 (1981). * [34] T. Watanabe, H.
Sasame, H. Okuyama, K. Takase, and Y. Takano, Phys. Rev. B **80**,
100502(R) (2009). * [35] A. A. Abrikosov and L. P. Gor’kov, Sov. Phys.
JETP **12**, 1243 (1961). * [36] A. A. Golubov and I. I. Mazin, Phys.
Rev. B **55**, 15146 (1997). * [37] A. V. Chubukov, D. V. Efremov, and
I. Eremin, Phys. Rev. B **78**, 134512 (2008). * [38] R. T. Gordon, M.
D. Vannette, C. Martin, Y. Nakajima, T. Tamegai, and R. Prozorov, Phys.
Rev. B **78**, 024514 (2008). * [39] V. G. Kogan, Phys. Rev. B **80**,
214532 (2009). * [40] Y. Nakai, T. Iye, S. Kitagawa, K. Ishida, H.
Ikeda, S. Kasahara, H. Shishido, T. Shibauchi, Y. Matsuda, and T.
Terashima, Phys. Rev. Lett. **105**, 107003 (2010). * [41] T. Moriya, Y.
Takahashi, and K. Ueda, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **59**, 2905 (1990).
