# Superconductivity of ZrRuSi prepared at high pressure

Ichimin Shirotani, Kenji Tachi, and Keiki Takeda

Muroran Institute of Technology, 27-1, Mizumoto, Muroran-shi 050, Japan

Sakae Todo and Takehiko Yagi

The Institute for Solid State Physics, The University of Tokyo,
Roppongi, Minato-ku, Tokyo 106, Japan

Kazushi Kanoda

Institute for Molecular Science, Mydodaiji, Okazaki-shi 444, Japan

24 May 1995

###### Abstract

Hexagonal ZrRuSi with the Fe₂P-type structure (_h_-ZrRuSi) and
orthorhombic ZrRuSi with the Co₂P-type form (_o_-ZrRuSi) were prepared
at high temperatures and high pressures. These metal silicides are
interesting layer compounds. A resistivity of ZrRuSi was measured at low
temperatures. The superconductivity was observed between 7-12 K for
_h_-ZrRuSi and between 3-5 K for _o_-ZrRuSi. These silicides are
superconductors. The resistivity of _h_-ZrRuSi and _h_-ZrRuP was
measured at various constant temperatures as a function of applied
magnetic field. The upper critical field (_H__e_2) obtained from
resistance vs magnetic field curves was 1 tesla at 0 K for _h_-ZrRuSi.
This is a surprisingly small value. On the contrary, _h_-ZrRuP has large
_H__e_2 of 17.5 tesla at 0 K. The physical properties of these
superconductors are discussed.

The compound ZrRuP crystallizes in two modifications, the Fe₂P-type
hexagonal structure (_h_-ZrRuP) (Ref. 1) and Co₂P-type orthorhombic
structure (_o_-ZrRuP).2 _h_-ZrRuP is an interesting layer compound. Each
layer in the hexagonal lattice is occupied by either Zr and P atoms or
Ru and P atoms. The two-dimensional triangular clusters of Ru₃ are
formed, and linked with each other through the Ru-P bonds in the basal
plane. The Ru₃ clusters are also connected with each other through the
Zr-Ru bonds with Zr atoms located in the z = 1/2 plane. The Ru-Ru
distance in the clusters is 2.63 A,1 which is shorter than the average
of 2.68 A in pure Ru metal. In contrast, the orthorhombic structure has
layers which are filled with Zr and Ru atoms and these layers are all
equivalent.2 The orthorhombic phase of ZrRuP transforms to the hexagonal
one at high temperatures and high pressures.3

_h_-ZrRuP shows an interesting superconductivity, an onset of
superconducting transition temperature (T_(e)) as high as 13 K.1 The
superconductivity of _o_-ZrRuP is found around 3.5 K.2 ZrRuP is usually
prepared by an arc-melted method. We have prepared _h_- and _o_-ZrRuP at
high temperatures and high pressures.4 The _T__e_’s of both ZrRuP are
about 13 K for the hexagonal phase and 4 K for the orthorhombic phase.

_h_-ZrRuSi is found to be isostructural to _h_-ZrRuP.1,5 The effect of
replacing the phosphorus atom by the more electronegative silicon atom
is an increase in the nearest-neighbor Ru-Ru distance to 2.87 A. ZrRuSi
prepared by the arc-melted method does not show the superconductivity
above 1.2 K.1 We have prepared _h_- and _o_-ZrRuSi at high temperatures
and high pressures, and observed the superconductivity at around 7-12 K
for _h_-ZrRuSi and 3-5 K for _o_-ZrRuSi.

## 1 Introduction

The superconductivity of ZrRuSi is a fascinating subject of intense
research. The first observation of the superconductivity of ZrRuSi in
the presence of a _o_-ZrRuSi, _o_-ZrRuSi, and _o_-ZrRuSi. The second
observation of the superconductivity of ZrRuSi in the presence of a
_o_-ZrRuSi, _o_-ZrRuSi, and _o_-ZrRuSi are the most important indicators
of the superconductivity of ZrRuSi. The second observation of the
superconductivity of ZrRuSi in the presence of a _o_-ZrRuSi, _o_-ZrRuSi,
and _o_-ZrRuSi are the most important indicators of the
superconductivity of ZrRuSi.

In this paper the physical properties of the superconductors ZrRuSi
prepared at high pressure are discussed.

## 2 Experiment

Using a wedge-type cubic-anvil high pressure apparatus,4 ZrRuSi was
prepared at high temperatures and high pressures. The upper and lower
stages of the high pressure apparatus consist of three anvils that slide
on the wedge formed in shallow _v_-shaped grooves. The anvil movement is
completely synchronized by means of a wedge system. The anvils prepared
by the cemented tungsten carbide have a 16 x 16 mm2 top-square face. The
sample container made of pyrophyllite is formed into a cube of 21 mm on
an edge. The sample assembly for the preparation of ZrRuSi is similar to
that used for the synthesis of black phosphorus.6 ZrRuSi was prepared by
reaction of stoichiometric amounts of Zr, Ru, and Si powders at around 4
GPa. The samples prepared at high pressure were characterized by powder
x-ray diffraction using Cu _K__a_1 radiation and silicon as a standard.
Figure 1 shows the x-ray-diffraction pattern of ZrRuSi prepared at
around 1400 degC and 4 GPa. These diffraction lines of the metal
silicide agreed with those of _h_-ZrRuSi reported by Jonson and
Jeitschko.5 The lattice constants of _h_-ZrRuSi obtained by us were a =
6.6812 +- 0.0005 A and c = 3.6715 +- 0.0006 A. Some weak diffraction
peaks indicated by the arrows were identified as lines of the
orthorhombic phase. X-ray-diffraction profile of ZrRuSi prepared at 950
degC and 4 GPa was similar to that of _o_-ZrRuP. These diffraction lines
were almost assigned by an index of Co₂P-type structure. Some lines of
the hexagonal phase were observed in this pattern. The preparation of
the single phase of _o_-ZrRuSi is very difficult because the density of
both phases is almost equal.

Copper or gold lead was attached to a polycrystal of ZrRuSi with silver
filled by epoxy, and four-lead electrical resistivity measurements were
performed at low temperatures. The resistivity of _h_-ZrRuP and
_h_-ZrRuSi was measured at various constant temperatures as a function
of applied magnetic field.

## RESULTS AND DISCUSSION

Figure 2 shows an electrical resistivity vs temperature curve for
_h_-ZrRuSi prepared at 1400 degC and 4 GPa. The compound was annealed at
1000 degC for a week. The resistivity decreased slowly with decreasing
temperature, but sharply dropped at around 12 K. The T_(c) of 12 K is
the highest one obtained during various sample preparations and the
annealing conditions. The T_(c)’s observed for _h_-ZrRuSi were between 7
and 12 K. The ac susceptibility of ZrRuSi was measured at low
temperatures. The susceptibility abruptly decreased at around 12 and 4
K. The anomaly at around 4 K is due to the superconducting transition of
_o_-ZrRuSi because there is a small amount of _o_-ZrRuSi in the sample
as is shown in Fig. 1. We have already reported similar magnetic
behavior for ZrRuP prepared at high pressure.4 The orthorhombic and
hexagonal phases of ZrRuSi easily coexisted because the density of both
phases is almost equal. The diffraction peaks of both phases were
clearly observed for ZrRuSi prepared at 1300 degC and 4 GPa.

Figure 3 shows the resistivity of this specimen at low temperatures. The
sample was annealed at 1000 degC for a week. The resistivity decreased
rapidly at around 9 and 5 K. These arise from the superconducting
transition for _h_- and _o_-ZrRuSi. The T_(c)’s observed for _o_-ZrRuSi
were between 3 and 5 K. The superconductivity of ZrRuSi prepared by the
arc-melted method is not found above 1.2 K.1 However, we have found the
superconductivity of _h_- and _o_-ZrRuSi prepared at high pressure at
around 12 and 5 K, respectively.

Figure 4 shows the resistance of _h_-ZrRuSi plotted as a function of the
applied magnetic field at constant temperatures between 0.5 and 5.5 K.
The critical magnetic field increased monotonically when the temperature
was above 3.1 K. However, an anomaly in the resistance vs magnetic-field
curves was observed below this temperature. The superconductivity of
ZrRuSi is very sensitive to the conditions of the sample preparation and
the heat

Figure 4: Resistance vs applied magnetic-field curves for _h_-ZrRuSi at
various temperatures.

Figure 3: Electrical resistivity vs temperature curve for ZrRuSi
prepared at around 1300 °C and 4 GPa.

Figure 2: Electrical resistivity of _h_-ZrRuSi at low temperatures.

treatment. This anomaly may closely be related to the coexistence of
both phases and the crystallinity though the origin is not understood
still. The upper critical field (H_(c2)) obtained from H_(c2) vs
temperature curve was 1 tesla at 0 K when the midpoint was taken as the
T_(c). This is a surprisingly small value. Figure 5 shows the resistance
vs applied magnetic-field curves for h-ZrRuP at various constant
temperatures. The anomaly in the resistance curves was not observed for
h-ZrRuP. H_(c2) of h-ZrRuP was 17.5 tesla at 0 K. This value was much
larger than H_(c2) of h-ZrRuSi. The coherence length (ξ) of h-ZrRuSi and
h-ZrRuP can be estimated from the formula H_(c2) = Φ₀/2πξ. The coherence
length was 181.5 A for h-ZrRuSi and 43.4 A for h-ZrRuP. These values
differ remarkably for both superconductors.

h-ZrRuSi and h-ZrRuP are interesting layer compounds. Each layer in the
hexagonal lattice is occupied by either Zr and X( = P,Si) atoms or Ru
and X atoms. The two-dimensional triangular clusters of Ru₃ are formed,
and linked with each other through the Ru-X bonds in the basal plane.
The Ru-Ru distances in the clusters are 2.63 A for h-ZrRuP and 2.871 A
for h-ZrRuSi. Barz _et al._ suggest that the high-T_(c) in h-ZrRuP is
due to the short Ru-Ru distance in the clusters.[1] However, the T_(c)
of h-ZrRuSi is over 10 K though the Ru-Ru distance in h-ZrRuSi is about
8.4

h-ZrRuP, h-ZrRuAs, and h-HfRuP with Fe₂P-type structure have high-T_(c)
over 10 K.[4, 7] On the other hand, the T_(c) of o-ZrRuP, NbRhP, and
TaRhP with the Co₂P-type structure are around 3-4 K.[2, 4] We have found
that T_(c)’s of h-ZrRuSi and o-ZrRuSi were about 12 and 5 K,
respectively. The T_(c) of the hexagonal phase of the metal silicide is
higher than that of the orthorhombic phase.

###### Acknowledgements.

The authors wish to thank Professor S. Kagoshima and Dr. H. Shinagawa,
University of Tokyo, for their support and useful suggestions.

## References

* [1] H. Barz, H. C. Ku, G. P. Meisner, Z. Fisk, and B. T. Mattias,
Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. **77**, 3132 (1980). * [2] R. Muller, R.
N. Shelton, J. W. Richardson, and R. A. Jacobson, J. Less-Common Met.
**42**, 177 (1983). * [3] S. Shirotani, T. Adachi, N. Ichihashi, K.
Tachi, T. Kikegawa, and O. Shimomura, _Photon Factory Activity Report_
(National Laboratory for High Energy Physics in Japan, Japan, 1993),
Vol. 11, p. 435; I. Shirotani, K. Tachi, N. Ichihashi, T. Adachi, T.
Kikegawa, and O. Shimomura, Phys. Lett. A (to be published). * [4] I.
Shirotani, N. Ichihashi, K. Nozawa, M. Kinoshita, T. Yagi, K. Suzuki,
and T. Enoki, Jpn. J. Appl. Phys. Suppl. **32-3**, 695 (1993). * [5] V.
Johnson and W. Jeitschko, J. Solid State Chem. **4**, 123 (1972). * [6]
I. Shirotani, Mol. Cryst. Liq. Cryst. **86**, 1943 (1982); I. Shirotani,
S. Shiba, K. Takemura, O. Shimomura, and T. Yagi, Physica B **190**,
1191 (1992).

Figure 5: Resistance vs applied magnetic-field curves for h-ZrRuP at
various temperatures.
