Pressure dependence of superconducting critical temperature and upper
critical field of 2_H_-NbS₂

V. G. Tissen,^(1, 2, *) M. R. Osorio,² J. P. Brison,³ N. M. Nemes,⁴ M.
Garcia-Hernandez,^(5, 6) L. Cario,⁷ P. Rodiere,⁸ S. Vieira,² and H.
Suderow^(2, 6, ↓)

¹Institute of Solid State Physics, Chernogolovka, 142432 Moscow Region,
Russia

²Laboratorio de Bajas Temperaturas, Departamento de Fisica de la Materia
Condensada, Instituto de Ciencia de Materiales Nicolas Cabrera, Facultad
de Ciencias Universidad Autonoma de Madrid, ES-28049 Madrid, Spain

³Centre de Recherches sur les tres Basses Temperatures CNRS, BP 166,
F-38042 Grenoble Cedex 9, France

⁴GFMC, Departamento de Fisica Aplicada III, Campus Moncloa, Universidad
Complutense Madrid, ES-28040 Madrid, Spain

⁵Instituto de Ciencia de Materiales de Madrid-CSIC, Cantoblanco ES-28049
Madrid, Spain

⁶Unidad Asociada de Bajas Temperaturas y Altos Campos Maganticos,
UAM/CSIC, Cantoblanco ES-28049 Madrid, Spain

⁷Institut des Materiaux Jean Rouvel (IMN), Universite de Nantes, CNRS, 2
rue de la Houssiniere, BP 32229, F-44322 Nantes Cedex 03, France

⁸Institut Neel, CRS/UJF, 25, Avenue des Martyres, BP 166, F-38042
Grenoble Cedex 9, France

###### Abstract

We present measurements of the superconducting critical temperature
T_(c) and upper critical field H_(c2) as a function of pressure in the
transition metal dichalcogenide 2_H_-NbS₂ up to 20 GPa. We observe that
T_(c) increases smoothly from 6 K at ambient pressure to about 8.9 K at
20 GPa. This range of increase is comparable to the one found previously
in 2_H_-NbSe₂. The temperature dependence of the upper critical field
H_(c2)(T) of 2_H_-NbS₂ varies considerably when increasing the pressure.
At low pressures, H_(c2)(0) decreases, and at higher pressures both
T_(c) and H_(c2)(0) increase simultaneously. This points out that there
are pressure induced changes of the Fermi surface, which we analyze in
terms of a simplified two-band approach.

pacs: 74.70.Xa, 74.62.Fj + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL REVIEW B
**87**, 134502 (2013)

## I Introduction

2_H_-NbSe₂ belongs to the family of transition metal dichalcogenide
compounds and presents a charge density wave (CDW) below T_(CDW) = 33 K,
which coexists with superconductivity (T_(c) = 7.2 K).1-10 2_H_-NbS₂ is
a related two-band superconductor, with similar T_(c), and no charge
order.11,12 The crystal structure of these materials consists of
hexagonal transition metal-chalcogen sandwiches which are coupled
through weak van der Waals forces, leading to hexagonal layers with
large _c_-axis constant and strongly anisotropic properties (see Fig.
1). Compressibility is larger along the c axis than in plane.13 Changes
in the electronic properties are produced by altering the lattice
constants, using compositional tuning (substitution,14 irradiation,15,16
or intercalation between layers[17, 18, 19]) and applying pressure.
Pressure has been shown to lead to an increase of the critical
temperature in 2_H_-NbSe₂ with a maximum T_(c) around 8.5 K at 10 GPa.
The CDW critical temperature decreases to zero at 5 GPa in this
material, and shows significant pressure induced modifications in other
compounds of the same family.13,20-24 The importance of local strain has
been highlighted recently.25 In Ref. [20], authors apply pressure to
2_H_-NbSe₂ and find that the effective dimensionality of the electronic
structure is increased above 4.6 GPa.

To characterize the electronic changes suffered under pressure in bulk
materials, the measurement of the upper critical field H_(c2) is a
simple and useful tool. In clean superconductors (with a mean free path
ℓ greater than the coherence length ξ), the usual dependence of H_(c2)
on temperature is given by the Helfand-Werthammer theory, which assumes
a simple single-band spherical Fermi surface.27 It consists of a linear
increase of H_(c2) close to T_(c), which flattens out at zero
temperature. Within this theory,
$H_{c2}(0)=\Phi_{0}\pi\frac{e^{-\gamma}}{(\mu^{2})}\frac{(T_{c})}{v_{F}}^{2}$,
where Φ₀ is the flux quantum, γ ≈ 0.577 Euler’s constant, and v_(F) the
Fermi velocity. The slope of the linear increase of H_(c2) close to
T_(c), $\frac{dH_{c2}(T)}{dT}(T_{c})$, is also proportional to
$(\frac{T_{c}}{v_{F}})$.28,29 A detailed treatment for complex Fermi
surfaces developed in Refs. [30] and [31] shows that the upper critical
field can have a strong dependence on temperature, which allows
determining the Fermi velocity v_(F) and electron-phonon coupling λ
parameters on different parts of the Fermi surface.

In the two-gap compounds MgB₂, YNi₂B₂C, and 2_H_-NbSe₂, it was found
that the ambient pressure H_(c2)(T) has a strong positive curvature
close to T_(c). The associated difference in the Fermi velocities in
both bands leads to differing coherence lengths for each band and thus
two characteristic features in the upper critical field, giving the
positive curvature observed in the experiment.23,24,30,52 In these
compounds, the form of such positively curved H_(c2)(T) has a strong
dependence as a function of pressure, from which electron-phonon
coupling and Fermi surface velocities have been obtained. In 2_H_-NbS₂,
scanning tunneling microscopy also revealed the existence of two
superconducting gaps.11 Subsequent heat capacity measurements also show
two-gap superconductivity and a small positive curvature of the upper
critical field.12 Moreover, the temperature dependence of the superfluid
density measured by the lower critical field and magnetic penetration
depth is very similar to 2_H_-NbSe₂, and is well described by a two-gap
model.33,34 Here, we present measurements of T_(c) and H_(c2)(T) as a
function of the applied pressure in 2_H_-NbS₂. We observe a smooth
increase in T_(c) as a function of pressure. H_(c2)(T) has a positive
curvature at ambient pressure, with an anomalous pressure dependence,
which evidences pressure induced changes in the Fermi surface.

## II Experiment

We have measured single crystalline samples of 2_H_-NbS₂, with T_(c)
around 6 K and a residual resistivity ratio around 10. They were grown
as described in Ref. [35], and have a hexagonal shape, with lateral
dimensions of about 150 μm and thickness around 30 μm. We loaded them
into a pressure cell made from a copper-beryllium alloy, within the
sample space delimited by the diamond anvils, which are 0.7 mm in culet
diameter, and a gasket made from a NiMo alloy. The diamond anvils were
mounted onto a couple of sapphire cylinders inserted into the bores of
two Cu-Be pieces. This choice of materials guarantees that the inductive
coupling between the coils and the neighboring parts of the cell can be
taken as negligible. The gasket had an initial thickness of 300 μm,
which was later reduced to about 60 μm in its center, after indentation.
A small orifice was made by means of arc discharges between the gasket
and a molybdenum needle. Its diameter and depth allowed the insertion of
the sample as well as of some ruby balls that were used to determine the
pressure through the ruby fluorescence method.[36] Pressure was
transmitted by a methanol-ethanol mixture (4:1), which has given
quasibrostatic conditions up to the pressures of interest in our
experiment.[23; 24; 37] The susceptometer is the same as already
described elsewhere.[23] It was designed to obtain the largest signal
to-noise ratio, with a pickup coil wound very close to the sample space.
Two primary-secondary coils systems of about 4 mm in diameter and 2 mm
in height were used. The first one was located surrounding the sample,
which was then within the field created by the primary, whereas the
secondary acquired the voltage due to any change occurring in the
sample’s properties. The other primary-secondary assembly was glued
beside, with no sample inside. The two primaries were connected in
series, so the resulting magnetic field was the same in both cases. The
secondary coils were connected in series opposition, so the large
signals due to the secondary coils themselves could be removed from the
beginning. After further compensation by means of an attenuator and a
phase shifter the total signal was detected with a lock-in amplifier.
For each applied pressure, T_(c) and H_(c2) were obtained by measuring
the magnetic susceptibility as a function of temperature and at
different magnetic fields, applied parallel to the c axis. The critical
temperature and field were determined by the onset of the
superconducting transition curves, defined as the intersection of two
tangents, one to the flat portion of the curve above and the second to
the steepest variation in the signal below the superconducting
transition.

## III Results

We find an ambient pressure superconducting critical temperature of 5.7
K. In previous measurements, no noticeable increase was measured below 1
GPa.[38; 39; 40] Figure 2(a) shows the variation with temperature of the
susceptibility in the 2_H_-NbS₂ sample, for applied pressures ranging
between 0 and 19.8 GPa. Figure 2(b) displays the variation of T_(c) as a
function of pressure. Clearly, there is a progressive increment of T_(c)
with pressure. A T_(c) maximum is likely to exist, but above 20 GPa.
Below 9 GPa, T_(c) increases with a slope d T_(c)/dP = 0.09 K/GPa, which
further grows to 0.22 K/GPa between 9 and 14, and then decreases to 0.16
K/GPa for higher pressures.

The magnetic field dependence of the susceptibility under pressure is
shown in Fig. 3 for different temperatures and at 3 GPa. There is a
smooth evolution of the susceptibility with magnetic field, from which
we can easily extract the

Figure 2: (a) Variation of the susceptibility of a 2_H_-NbS₂ sample as a
function of temperature and for several applied pressures. The arrow and
the lines show the way we used to extract the corresponding value of
T_(c). (b) Critical temperature as a function of the applied pressure.
Triangles and solid circles correspond to increasing and decreasing
pressure, respectively. Lines are a guide to the eye and simply join
data points. Saturation is eventually expected above 20 GPa.

Figure 1: (Color online) Structure of 2_H_-NbS₂. The niobium atoms are
surrounded by sulfur atoms following a trigonal prismatic coordination.
The S-Nb-S layers that make up each packet are covalently bound. The
coupling between pairs of packets is dominated by van der Waals forces.
The lattice parameters are a = 3.321 Å, b = 5.751 Å, and c = 11.761 Å
(Ref. [26]).

upper critical field as the onset of the transition. The transition
widens significantly at lower temperatures, as expected for a type II
superconductor. The form of H_(c2)(T), discussed in the following
figure, does not depend on choosing H_(c2)(T) from the onset, midpoint,
or lower part of the transition.

Previous ambient pressure results on the upper critical field of 2H-NbS₂
yielded a positive curvature above 0.5T_(c), and a zero-temperature
critical field value of about 2.6-2.7 T.[12; 41] Our measurements of the
ambient pressure temperature dependence of the upper critical field of
2H-NbS₂ are shown in the upper panel of Fig. 4, and essentially confirm
previous findings. We observe a slight positive curvature with an
extrapolated zero-temperature critical field of about 2.6 T. This
positive curvature, although less pronounced, is similar to that found
in H_(c2)(T) in 2H-NbSe₂. When applying pressure in 2H-NbS₂, the
critical temperature increases, but the upper critical field at low
temperatures decreases strongly up to 8.7 GPa, above which it increases
together with T_(c). Our results show that H_(c2)(0) drops by a factor
1.5 between 0 and 8.7 GPa and then rises by a factor of 1.5 for the
highest attained pressures around 20 GPa. This is a peculiar behavior.
If the Fermi surface parameters do not change, theory predicts that
H_(c2)(0) ∝ T_(c)².[27; 28]

Thus, the nonmonotonous variation of H_(c2)(T) is at odds with the most
simple single-band BCS theory, and we explored how a two-band scenario
could explain this behavior. For that purpose, we used the same type of
calculations of the upper critical field of strong coupling (multiband)
superconductors and its pressure dependence as in Refs. [23; 24; 42],
and [43], and numerically linearize H_(c2)(T) equations obtained from
the Eliashberg theory.[44] The main change in H_(c2)(T) under pressure
occurs in the form of the positive curvature and the value of H_(c2)(0),
which can be used to determine the values of the Fermi surface
properties, by parametrizing the Fermi surface in two main different
subgroups of electronic excitations. We consider two subgroups of
electrons, with bare Fermi velocities v_(F1) and v_(F2), and coupling
parameters λ_(ij) (i, j = 1.2, with subindex 1 for the electronic group
with the largest pairing strength). There is of course no possibility to
deduce a unique set of parameters simply from our H_(c2)(T, P) data:
Rather, we choose to find the simplest possible scenario which fits the
whole pressure dependence of H_(c2)(T).

The choice for our scenario was guided by the above mentioned peculiar
behavior, namely, that T_(c) increases with pressure, whereas the slope
of H_(c2)(T) close to T_(c) decreases. An increasing T_(c) suggests an
increasing pairing strength, but at the same time, the decreasing slope
suggests an increased Fermi velocity, and thus a decreasing effective
mass, which is unexpected with increased pairing interactions, or an
increased Fermi wave vector. In the latter case, we would also expect an
increased bare density of states, for instance, through an increased
Fermi pocket volume. So we checked if a simple scenario, where the mere
increase of the Fermi surface volume of the main electronic group, at
the expense of a decreased Fermi surface volume of the second electronic
group, could be suitable, with a larger Fermi surface (smaller slope of
H_(c2)) for the first group to reproduce the change of slope with
pressure. To be quantitative, we introduce two (and only two) parameters
to describe the pressure evolution of both T_(c) and H_(c2)(T): These
parameters are ρ₁(P) and ρ₂(P), which can be thought as the ratio of the
bare density of states of each electronic group under pressure with
respect to the density of states at zero pressure, due to the respective

Figure 4: Temperature dependence of the upper critical field H_(c2)(T)
as a function of pressure (open and solid symbols). Fits to the model
explained in the text are shown as lines. Note the decrease in the upper
critical field until 8.7 GPa (upper panel), which ceases above this
pressure (lower panel).

Figure 3: Variation of the susceptibility of a 2H-NbS₂ sample as a
function of the magnetic field, for a pressure of 3 GPa and for several
temperatures. The arrow and the lines show the way we used to extract
the corresponding value of H_(c2)(T). Note that the transition width
significantly increases with magnetic field. Other criteria for
determining the transition temperature, such as the midpoint or lower
part of the transition region, lead to similar H_(c2)(T) curves.

Fermi pocket volume change. We can then deduce the pressure evolution of
the electron-phonon coupling parameters as
λ_(ij)(P) = λ_(ij)(0)ρ_(j)(P), and for the bare Fermi velocities
v_(Fi)(P) = v_(Fi)(0)ρ_(i)(P). The renormalized Fermi velocities [44]
are, as usual,
$v_{Fi}^{*}(P)=v_{Fi}(P)\frac{1}{1+\Sigma_{2}\lambda_{ij}}$. We fixed
the values of the mean phonon frequency, θ = 54.5 K, and Coulomb
pseudopotential, μ^(*) = 0.1, and assume that they are pressure
independent. We find that indeed, as shown in Fig. 4, the complete
evolution of H₂(T, P) can be fitted when starting from the initial set
of values: λ₁₁(0) = 1, λ₂₂(0) = 0, λ₁₂(0) = 1.1, λ₂₁(0) = 0.55,
v_(Fi)(1) = 3.1 × 10⁵ m/s [v_(Fi)^(*)(0) = 10⁵ m/s],
v_(F2)(0) = 0.155 × 10⁵ m/s [v_(F2)^(*)(0) = 10⁴ m/s]. With these
initial values of the electron-phonon coupling constants, pairing is
controlled by the first electron group and by the interaction between
the first and second electron groups. Figure 5(a) shows the pressure
evolution of the renormalized Fermi velocities, and Fig. 5(b) that of
the coupling parameters or, equivalently, of ρ₁ and ρ₂. This
demonstrates that H_(c2)(T, P) [including T_(c)(P)] is compatible with a
scenario where one of the Fermi pockets expands while the other shrinks,
and with a constant pairing potential. Only the bare density of states
related to the Fermi pocket volume is changing with pressure.

## IV Discussion and conclusions

Our results show that the variation of the Fermi surface parameters is
monotonic (up to 20 GPa), and there are no maxima nor minima as in
2H-NbSe₂.[24] In 2H-NbSe₂, a dome shape of T_(c)(P) is found which peaks
around 10 GPa and the CDW disappears at 5 GPa,[20] where a kink in
T_(c)(P) is found. The latter is associated with changes in one of the
Fermi surfaces, with a possible Lifshitz transition due to one band
shifting below the Fermi level. In 2H-NbS₂, the strong decrease of the
zero-temperature upper critical field below 8.7 GPa, associated with a
slight increase in critical temperature, can be explained by a decrease
in the renormalized Fermi velocity and an increase in the
electron-phonon coupling of one part of the Fermi surface (see Fig. 5),
due to Fermi surface modifications. This produces a more pronounced
positive curvature in H_(c2)(T), as the differences in Fermi surface
parameters increase. Above about 10 GPa, variations are smoother and
essentially governed by slightly increasing renormalized Fermi
velocities of the rest of the Fermi surface.

The Fermi surface of 2H-NbS₂ is not known in detail, but likely has the
features which are believed to be common to similar transition metal
dichalcogenides, namely, two pairs of concentric cylindrical sheets
derived from Nb 4d electrons.[45; 46] Figure 5 shows that pressure
induced modifications seem to saturate near 20 GPa, therefore indicating
that T_(c) cannot be expected to be much higher than 9 K. It also hints
to a shrinking of a part of the Fermi surface, while the other one grows
at its expense, as v_(F1) evidences. These features of the
superconducting properties cannot be related to a competition with a
CDW, as charge order is not present in 2H-NbS₂. It has been suggested
that the absence of CDW order in this compound is due to anharmonic
effects, and that the superconducting properties are essentially
determined by the anisotropy and strength of the electron-phonon
coupling.[47]

2H-NbS₂ is at the verge of CDW, which is favored by an increased a/c in
other dichalcogenides.[45] The a/c lattice constant ratio is smaller
than in 2H-NbSe₂, so that pressure drives farther away from the CDW
instability.[45] This can be fully confirmed, obviously, only by
measurements under pressure of any property sensitive to CDW order, such
as the resistance. Nevertheless, if CDW reenters, T_(c)(P) should show
some kink or anomaly, and a decrease instead of the increase we observe
here. Thus, our results also show that the reentrance of CDW is a very
unlikely possibility.

It has been postulated that the coexistence of superconductivity with
charge density wave is related to the neighborhood to a quantum critical
point.[48; 49; 50; 45] Quantum critical points appear when a second
order phase transition is driven to zero temperature by modifying
composition or lattice parameters. Quantum fluctuations diverge at these
points and are expected to induce emergent exotic properties.[50] In the
transition metal dichalcogenides, quantum critical points may appear
hidden below the superconducting or charge ordered states.[20] Pressure
in 2H-NbS₂ drives the system farther away from such a quantum critical
point, which has a marginal effect on the critical temperature, and is
not associated with maxima or domelike shapes of T_(c). Our data show
that maxima in T_(c) can be reached by going farther away from CDW
instability. Therefore, such domelike shapes in these compounds can be
obtained without relation to CDW order.

Finally, let us remark that recent reports discuss synthesis and
characterization of single and few layer systems of this and other
dichalcogenide compounds. Their superconducting properties, as well as
the charge density wave, are expected to differ from the bulk.[51; 52;
53; 54; 55] In these systems, the strain induced in the fabrication
method is possibly significant and will be of importance in the pairing
interaction. The pressure dependence

Figure 5: Pressure dependence of (a) the renormalized Fermi surface
velocities v_(Fi)^(*)(P)/v_(Fi)^(*)(0) and of (b) the electron-phonon
coupling parameters λ_(ij)(P)/λ_(ij)(0) = ρ_(j)(P) for both subgroups of
electrons in 2H-NbS₂. Lines simply join points and are a guide to the
eyes.

of the bulk properties should be thus useful to predict and understand
the modifications which found a size reduction down to single or few
layers.[56]

In summary, we have presented results on the variation of T_(c) and
H_(c2) as a function of pressure in the dichalcogenide 2H-NbS₂. Our data
show that the critical temperature increases smoothly as pressure is
increased. This behavior is compared to the one already found in
2H-NbSe₂, where a maximum in T_(c) is found at 10 GPa. On the other
hand, the upper critical field of 2H-NbS₂ exhibits an intriguing
behavior. There is an initial decrease, contrasting with the increase of
T_(c), but above 8.7 GPa the upper critical field rises again. We
provide a model to explain this behavior in terms of pressure induced
changes in the Fermi surface.

###### Acknowledgements.

The Laboratorio de Bajas Temperaturas is associated with the ICMM of the
CSIC. This work was supported by Spanish MINECO (Consolider-Ingenio
CSD2007-00010 and CSD2009-00013 programs, SAB2009-0057, FIS2011-23488,
and MAT2011-27470-C02-02), by the Comunidad de Madrid through program
Nanobiomagnet, and by NanoSc-COST program.

## References

* [1] P. Monceau, Adv. Phys. **61**, 325 (2012). * [2] T. Yokoya, T.
Kiss, A. Chainani, S. Shin, M. Nohara, and H. Takagi, Science **294**,
2518 (2001). * [3] E. Boaknin, M. A. Tanatar, J. Paglione, D. Hawthorn,
F. Ronning, R. Hill, M. Sutherland, L. Taillefer, J. Sonier, S. Hayden
_et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **90**, 117003 (2003). * [4] J. G. Rodrigo
and S. Vieira, Physica C **404**, 306 (2004). * [5] T. Kiss, T. Yokoya,
A. Chainani, S. Shin, T. Hanaguri, M. Nohara, and H. Takagi, Nat. Phys.
**3**, 720 (2007). * [6] I. Guillamon, H. Suderow, F. Guinea, and S.
Vieira, Phys. Rev. B **77**, 134505 (2008). * [7] L. N. Bulaevskii, Sov.
Phys. Usp. **19**, 836 (1976). * [8] R. V. Coleman, B. Giambattista, P.
K. Hansma, A. Johnson, W. W. McNairy, and C. G. Slough, Adv. Phys.
**37**, 559 (1988). * [9] W. Sacks, D. Roditchev, and J. Klein, Phys.
Rev. B **57**, 13118 (1998). * [10] K. Rossnagel, J. Phys.: Condens.
Matter **23**, 213001 (2011). * [11] I. Guillamon, H. Suderow, S.
Vieira, L. Cario, P. Diener, and P. Rodiere, Phys. Rev. Lett. **101**,
166407 (2008). * [12] J. Kacmarcik, Z. Pribulova, C. Marcenat, T. Klein,
P. Rodiere, L. Cario, and L. C. P. Samuely, Phys. Rev. B **82**, 014518
(2010). * [13] A. F. Kusmartseva, B. Sipos, H. Berger, L. Forro, and E.
Tutis, Phys. Rev. Lett. **103**, 236401 (2009). * [14] J. A. Wilson, F.
J. DiSalvo, and S. Mahajan, Adv. Phys. **24**, 117 (1975). * [15] J. C.
Tsang, M. W. Shafer, and B. L. Crowder, Phys. Rev. B **11**, 155
(1975). * [16] H. Mutka, Phys. Rev. B **28**, 2855 (1983). * [17] J. L.
Vicent, S. J. Hillenius, and R. V. Coleman, Phys. Rev. Lett. **44**, 892
(1980). * [18] I. Guillamon, H. Suderow, A. Fernandez-Pacheco, J. Sese,
R. Cordoba, J. M. D. Teresa, M. R. Ibarra, and S. Vieira, Nat. Phys.
**5**, 651 (2009). * [19] E. Coronado, C. Marti-Gastaldo, E.
Navarro-Moratalla, A. Ribera, S. J. Blundell, and P. J. Baker, Nat.
Chem. **2**, 1031 (2010). * [20] Y. Feng, J. Wang, R. Jaramillo, J. van
Wezel, S. Haravifard, G. Srajer, Y. Liu, Z.-A. Xu, P. B. Littlewood, and
T. F. Rosenbaum, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA **109**, 7224 (2012). * [21]
E. Morosan, H. W. Zandbergen, B. S. Dennis, J. W. G. Bos, Y. Onose, T.
Klimczuk, A. P. Ramirez, N. P. Ong, and R. J. Cava, Nat. Phys. **2**,
544 (2006). * [22] B. Sipos, A. F. Kusmartseva, A. Akrap, H. Berger, L.
Forro, and E. Tutis, Nat. Mater. **7**, 960 (2008). * [23] H. Suderow,
V. G. Tissen, J. P. Brison, J. L. Martinez, S. Vieira, P. Lejay, S. Lee,
and S. Tajima, Phys. Rev. B **70**, 134518 (2004). * [24] H. Suderow, V.
G. Tissen, J. P. Brison, J. L. Martinez, and S. Vieira, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**95**, 117006 (2005). * [25] A. Soumyanarayanan, M. M. Yee, Y. He, J.
van Wezel, D. J. Rahn, K. Rossnagel, E. W. Hudson, M. R. Norman, and J.
E. Hoffman, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA **110**, 1623 (2013). * [26] C.
M. Fang, A. R. H. F. Ettema, C. Haas, G. A. Wiegers, H. van Leuken, and
R. A. de Groot, Phys. Rev. B **52**, 2336 (1995). * [27] E. Helfand and
N. Werthamer, Phys. Rev. **147**, 288 (1966). * [28] P. C. Hohenberg, N.
R. Werthamer, Phys. Rev. **153**, 493 (1967). * [29] L. F. Mattheiss,
Phys. Rev. B **1**, 373 (1970). * [30] S. V. Shulga, S. L. Drechsler, G.
Fuchs, K. H. Muller, K. Winzer, M. Heinecke, and K. Krug, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **80**, 1730 (1998). * [31] T. Dahm and N. Schopohl, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **91**, 017001 (2003). * [32] V. Moshchalkov, M. Menghini, T.
Nishio, Q. H. Chen, A. V. Silhanek, V. H. Dao, L. F. Chibotaru, N. D.
Zhigadlo, and J. Karpinski, Phys. Rev. Lett. **102**, 117001 (2009). *
[33] M. Leroux, P. Rodiere, L. Cario, and T. Klein, Physica B **407**,
1813 (2012). * [34] P. Diener, M. Leroux, L. Cario, T. Klein, and P.
Rodiere, Phys. Rev. B **84**, 054531 (2011). * [35] W. Fisher and M.
Sienko, Inorg. Chem. **19**, 39 (1980). * [36] P. D. Horn and Y. M.
Gupta, Phys. Rev. B **39**, 973 (1989). * [37] N. Tateiwa and Y. Haga,
J. Phys.: Conf. Ser. **215**, 012178 (2010). * [38] R. E. Jones, Jr., H.
R. Shanks, D. K. Finnemore, and B. Morosin, Phys. Rev. B **6**, 835
(1972). * [39] P. Molinie, D. Jerome, and A. J. Grant, Philos. Mag.
**30**, 1091 (1974). * [40] N. Barisic, I. Smiljanic, P. Popcevic, A.
Bilusic, E. Tutis, A. Smontara, H. Berger, J. Jacimovic, O. Yuli, and L.
Forro, Phys. Rev. B **84**, 075157 (2011). * [41] G. Shaw, P. Mandal, S.
S. Banerjee, A. Niazi, A. K. Rastogi, A. K. Sood, S. Ramakrishnan, and
A. K. Grover, Phys. Rev. B **85**, 174517 (2012). * [42] M. A. Measson,
D. Braithwaite, J. Flouquet, G. Seyfarth, J. P. Brison, E. Lhotel, C.
Paulsen, H. Sugawara, and H. Sato, Phys. Rev. B **70**, 064516 (2004). *
[43] L. Glemot, J. P. Brison, J. Flouquet, A. I. Buzdin, I. Sheikin, D.
Jaccard, C. Thessieu, and F. Thomas, Phys. Rev. Lett. **82**, 169
(1999). * [44] M. Prohammer and E. Schachinger, Phys. Rev. B **36**,
8353 (1987). * [45] A. H. Castro Neto, Phys. Rev. Lett. **86**, 4382
(2001).

* (46) M. D. Johannes, I. I. Mazin, and C. A. Howells, Phys. Rev. B
**73**, 205102 (2006). * (47) M. Leroux, M. Le Tacon, M. Calandra, L.
Cario, M. A. Measson, P. Diener, E. Borrissenko, A. Bosak, and P.
Rodiere, Phys. Rev. B **86**, 155125 (2012). * (48) S. Sachdev, _Quantum
Phase Transitions_ (Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, UK, 1999). *
(49) P. Coleman and A. J. Schofield Nat. Phys. **433**, 226 (2005); W.
Knafo, S. Raymond, P. Lejay, and J. Flouquet, _ibid._**5**, 753
(2009). * (50) P. Coleman, Phys. Status Solidi B **247**, 506 (2010). *
(51) R. Frindt, Phys. Rev. Lett. **28**, 299 (1972). * (52) X. R. Win,
D. Yang, R. F. Frindt, and J. C. Irwin, Phys. Rev. B **44**, 3490
(1991). * (53) A. Castellanos-Gomez, N. Agrait, and G. Rubio-Bollinger,
Appl. Phys. Lett. **96**, 213116 (2010). * (54) J. A. Galvis, P.
Rodiere, I. Guillamon, M. Osorio, G. Rubio-Bollinger, J. Rodrigo, L.
Cario, E. Navarro-Moratalla, E. Coronado, S. Vieira _et al._, Phys. Rev.
B **87**, 094502 (2013). * (55) Q. H. Wang, K. Kalantar-Zadeh, A. Kis,
J. N. Coleman, and M. S. Strano, Nat. Nanotechnol. **7**, 699 (2012). *
(56) M. Calandra, I. I. Mazin, F. Mauri, Phys. Rev. B **80**, 241108(R)
(2009).
