Universal heat conduction in Ce_(1 − x)Yb_(x)CoIn₅: Evidence for robust
nodal _d_-wave superconducting gap

Y. Xu,¹ J. K. Dong,^(1, 2,) I. K. Lum,³ J. Zhang,¹ X. C. Hong,¹ L. P.
He,¹ K. F. Wang,^(4,) Y. C. Ma,^(4,) C. Petrovic,⁴ M. B. Maple,³ L.
Shu,^(1, 5,) and S. Y. Li^(1, 2,)

jkdong@fudan.edu.cn ¹State Key Laboratory of Surface Physics and
Department of Physics, Fudan University, Shanghai 200433, People’s
Republic of China ²Laboratory of Advanced Materials, Fudan University,
Shanghai 200433, People’s Republic of China ³Department of Physics and
Center for Advanced Nanoscience, University of California, San Diego, La
Jolla, California 92093, USA ⁴Condensed Matter Physics and Materials
Science Department, Brookhaven National Laboratory, Upton, New York
11973, USA ⁵Collaborative Innovation Center of Advanced Microstructures,
Fudan University, Shanghai 200433, People’s Republic of China

###### Abstract

In the heavy-fermion superconductor Ce_(1 − x)Yb_(x)CoIn₅, Yb doping was
reported to cause a possible change from nodal _d_-wave
superconductivity to a fully gapped _d_-wave molecular superfluid of
composite pairs near x 0.07 (nominal value _x_nom = 0.2). Here we
present systematic thermal conductivity measurements on
Ce_(1 − x)Yb_(x)CoIn₅ (_x_ = 0.013, 0.084, and 0.163) single crystals.
The observed finite residual linear term k0/_T_ is insensitive to Yb
doping, verifying the universal heat conduction of the nodal _d_-wave
superconducting gap in Ce_(1 − x)Yb_(x)CoIn₅. Similar universal heat
conduction is also observed in the CeCoIn₅ (In_(1 − y)Cd_(y))₅ system.
These results reveal a robust nodal _d_-wave gap in CeCoIn₅ upon Yb or
Cd doping.

2016 17 October 2015 17 October 2015 17 February 2016 17 October 2015 17
February 2016 10.1103/PhysRevB.93.064502

CeCoIn₅ is an archetypal heavy-fermion superconductor with
superconducting transition temperature _T__(c) ≃ 2.3 K [1]. With many
similarities to the high-_T__(c) cuprates, including
quasi-two-dimensionality (quasi-2D), proximity to antiferromagneticism,
and a non-Fermi-liquid normal state, the unconventional
superconductivity in CeCoIn₅ has long been thought to be due to spin
fluctuation pairing [2, 3, 4, 5]. The superconducting gap structure
D(_k_) of CeCoIn₅ has been widely studied with various experimental
probes ever since it was discovered. These include specific heat [6],
thermal conductivity [7, 8, 9, 10], and surface-sensitive techniques
such as point contact spectroscopy and scanning tunneling microscopy
(STM) [11, 12, 13]. A _d_-wave superconducting gap with
symmetry-protected nodes has been well established in CeCoIn₅.

The investigation of impurity effects can give a better understanding of
the exotic normal and superconducting state of CeCoIn₅[14, 15].
Recently, the anomalous phenomena observed in the Ce_(1 − x)Yb_(x)CoIn₅
system have attracted much attention [16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23,
24, 25, 26]. At first, the violation of Vegard’s law was found in
Ce_(1 − x)Yb_(x)CoIn₅ single crystals, together with the robustness of
_T__(c) and the Kondo-coherence temperature _T_coh upon Yb doping [16].
However, later measurements on the Ce_(1 − x)Yb_(x)CoIn₅ thin films
demonstrated a verification of Vegard’s law and strong suppression of
_T__(c) and _T_coh with Yb doping [17]. To solve this discrepancy, Jang
_et al._ carefully determined the actual Yb concentration _x_act in
Ce_(1 − x)Yb_(x)CoIn₅ single crystals and found that _x_act is only
about 1/3 of the nominal value _x_nom up to _x_nom ≈ 0.5 [18]. With
_x_act, the rate of _T__(c) suppression with Yb concentration for the
single crystals is nearly the same as that observed in the thin films
[18].

Nevertheless, the remarkable anomalies observed at _x_nom = 0.2 are
still very puzzling, including Fermi surface topology change [19], Yb
valence transition [20], significant quasiparticle effective mass
reduction, and suppression of the quantum critical point [19, 21].
Moreover, a recent London penetration depth study by Kim _et al._
suggested the nodal _d_-wave superconductivity becomes fully gapped
beyond the critical Yb doping _x_nom = 0.2 [22]. To explain this, an
exotic scenario was proposed in which the nodal Fermi surface undergoes
a Lifshitz transition upon Yb doping, forming a fully-gapped _d_-wave
molecular superfluid of composite pairs [23].

To examine such an exotic scenario, more experiments are highly desired
to investigate the superconducting gap structure of the
Ce_(1 − x)Yb_(x)CoIn₅ system. Low-temperature thermal conductivity
measurement is an established bulk technique to probe the gap structure
of a superconductor [27]. According to the magnitude of residual linear
term k0/_T_ in zero field, one may judge whether gap nodes exist or not.
The field dependence of k0/_T_ can give further information about nodal
gaps, gap anisotropy, and multiple gaps.

In this paper, we report a systematic heat transport study of
Ce_(1 − x)Yb_(x)CoIn₅ (_x_nom = 0.05, 0.2, and 0.4) single crystals.
Finite k0/_T_ is observed in all three samples, which does not support a
fully gapped superconducting state at _x_nom ≥ 0.2. Furthermore, k0/_T_
manifests a nearly constant value upon doping, i.e., the universal heat
conduction, which is an important property of a nodal _d_-wave
superconducting gap. Similar universal heat conduction is also observed
in the CeCo(In_(1 − y)Cd_(y))₅ (_y_nom = 0.05, 0.075, and 0.1) system.
These results demonstrate that the nodal _d_-wave gap in CeCoIn₅ is
robust against Yb or Cd doping.

High-quality Ce_(1 − x)Yb_(x)CoIn₅ (_x_nom = 0.05, 0.2, and 0.4) and
CeCo(In_(1 − y)Cd_(y))₅ (_y_nom = 0.05, 0.075, and 0.1) single crystals
were grown by a standard indium self-flux method [28, 29]. Samples were
etched in dilute hydrochloric acid to remove the In flux on the
surfaces. The actual Yb concentration $x_{\rm act}=0.013$, 0.084, and
0.163 and the actual Cd concentration $y_{\rm act}=0.004$, 0.008, and
0.011 were determined by wavelength-dispersive spectroscopy (WDS),
utilizing an electron probe microanalyzer (Shimadzu EPMA-1720H).
Hereafter, x and y represent $x_{\rm act}$ and $y_{\rm act}$,
respectively. The samples were cut and polished into a rectangular
shape. Contacts were made with indium solder for Ce_(1 − x)Yb_(x)CoIn₅
and spot welding for CeCo(In_(1 − y)Cd_(y))₅, respectively, which were
used for both in-plane resistivity and thermal conductivity
measurements. The resistivity measurements were made in a ³He cryostat.
The thermal conductivity was measured in a dilution refrigerator, using
a standard four-wire steady-state method with two RuO₂ chip
thermometers, calibrated in situ against a reference RuO₂ thermometer.
Magnetic fields were applied along the c axis and perpendicular to the
heat current. To ensure a homogeneous field distribution in the samples,
all fields were applied at a temperature above T_(c).

Figure 1(a) shows the low-temperature in-plane resistivity ρ(T) of
Ce_(1 − x)Yb_(x)CoIn₅. For x = 0.013, 0.084, and 0.163, the normal-state
resistivity ρ(T) below 4 K is roughly linear, and the residual
resistivities ρ₀ = 7.9, 11.2, and 20.2 μΩ cm are obtained by linear
extrapolation. The T_(c), defined as the midpoint of each resistive
transition, is 2.13, 1.84, and 1.40 K, respectively. Figures 1(b) and
1(c) plot the doping dependence of ρ₀ and normalized T_(c)/T_(c0)
(T_(c0) = 2.3 K for pure CeCoIn₅), respectively. For comparison, the
data for Ce_(1 − x)Yb_(x)CoIn₅ thin films from Ref. [17] are also
plotted. The curves for the single crystal and thin film samples nearly
overlap with each other. This suggests that our determination of the
actual Yb concentrations for our single crystals is accurate and further
confirms the conclusion of Ref. [18]. According to Ref. [17], the
suppression of T_(c) can be well reproduced by the Abrikosov-Gorkov (AG)
pair breaking curve, suggesting that Yb ions act as impurity centers
with unitary scattering, regardless of the Yb valence.

Figures 2(a)-2(c) present the resistivity ρ(T) of Ce_(1 − x)Yb_(x)CoIn₅
single crystals under various magnetic fields. Negative
magnetoresistance and sub-T-linear ρ(T) are observed in the normal
state, as in pure CeCoIn₅[30]. To determine the zero-temperature upper
critical field H_(c2)(0), we plot the temperature dependence of
H_(c2)(T) in Fig. 2(d). With rough extrapolation, H_(c2)(0) ≈ 5.4, 5.2,
and 5.1 T are obtained for x = 0.013, 0.084, and 0.163, respectively.
H_(c2)(0) only exhibits a slight decrease with the increase of Yb
concentration, in contrast with the strong suppression of T_(c).

The low-temperature in-plane thermal conductivity of
Ce_(1 − x)Yb_(x)CoIn₅ single crystals is shown in Figs. 3(a)-3(c). In
zero field, all the curves are roughly linear below 0.4 K, with a
moderate slope. Previously for pure CeCoIn₅ at this temperature range,
the slope is about 30 times larger than our doped samples and constantly
changing [8; 9; 10], which impedes an accurate extrapolation of κ/T to
zero temperature. κ₀/T < 2 mW K⁻² cm⁻¹ and κ₀/T < 3 mW K⁻² cm⁻¹ were
estimated for pure CeCoIn₅ in Refs. [8] and [10], respectively. Here,
due to the moderate slope of our doped samples, we linearly extrapolate
κ/T to zero temperature to obtain κ₀/T = 1.22, 1.19, and 1.08 mW K⁻²
cm⁻¹ for x = 0.013, 0.084, and 0.163, respectively. These values are
listed in Table 1.

In magnetic fields, linear extrapolations still apply, except for the
x = 0.013 and 0.084 samples when H > 4.5 T, as seen in Figs. 3(a) and
3(b). The H = 5 and 5.5 T curves for x = 0.013 and 0.084 samples tend to
point to their

Figure 2: (a)–(c) Temperature dependence of resistivity for
Ce_(1 − x)Yb_(x)CoIn₅ single crystals at various magnetic fields H ∥ c
up to 5.5 T. (d) Temperature dependence of the upper critical field
H_(c2)(T) for all three samples.

Figure 1: (a) Low-temperature resistivity of Ce_(1 − x)Yb_(x)CoIn₅
single crystals. Here x is the actual Yb concentration. The dashed lines
are linear extrapolations to get the residual resistivity ρ₀. (b) and
(c) Doping dependence of ρ₀ and normalized T_(c)/T_(c0) (T_(c0) = 2.3 K
for pure CeCoIn₅) for our single crystals and the thin films (from Ref.
[17]). The shadowed narrow bar marks x ≈ 0.07, corresponding to
$x_{\rm non}\approx 0.2$, where several anomalies were reported,
including the Yb valence transition.

normal-state Wiedemann-Franz law expectations L₀/ρ₀(H_(c2)). The field
dependence of κ₀/T is shown in Fig. 3(d). For x = 0.013, κ/T increases
gradually with field, followed by a jump to the normal-state value at
H_(c2). Such a jump of κ₀/T near H_(c2) was previously observed in pure
CeCoIn₅, which was interpreted as the sign of a first-order
superconducting transition [10]. For x = 0.084 and 0.163, this jump
becomes less and less pronounced.

The major result of this work is that we observe a finite κ₀/T with
comparable values at zero field for all three Ce_(1 − x)Yb_(x)CoIn₅
(x = 0.013, 0.084, and 0.163) samples. To check whether this finite κ₀/T
is also present in CeCoIn₅ containing other dopants, we measured the
thermal conductivity of CeCo(In_(1 − y)Cd_(y))₅ (y = 0.004, 0.008, and
0.011) single crystals. The low-temperature resistivity of
CeCo(In_(1 − y)Cd_(y))₅ single crystals is shown in Fig. 4(a), from
which the values T_(c) = 2.14, 2.05, and $1.

  plots \(\kappa/T$ vs T at zero field for all three samples, where a
linear fit is used to obtain κ₀/T. The value of κ₀/T is 1.03, 0.90, and
0.93 mW K⁻² cm⁻¹ for y = 0.004, 0.008, and 0.011, respectively, as
listed in Table 1.

The values for κ₀/T vs dopant concentrations x and y for all Ce_(1 − x)
Yb_(x)CoIn₅ and CeCo(In_(1 − y)Cd_(y))₅ samples at zero field are
plotted in Fig. 4(c). Usually, the presence of a finite κ₀/T is strong
evidence for a nodal superconducting gap [27]. For example, κ₀/T = 1.41
mW K⁻² cm⁻¹ for the overdoped d-wave cuprate superconductor
Tl₂Ba₂CuO_(6 + δ) (Tl-2201, T_(c) = 15 K) [31], and κ₀/T = 17 mW K⁻²
cm⁻¹ for the p-wave superconductor Sr₂RuO₄ (T_(c) = 1.5 K) [32].
Although there is some uncertainty in the accurate value of κ₀/T for
pure CeCoIn₅[8, 10], the significant κ₀/T observed here for all Yb- and
Cd-doped CeCoIn₅ samples is quite reliable due to the moderate slope.
Therefore, the nodal gap in the Ce_(1 − x)Yb_(x)CoIn₅ system persists at
least up to x = 0.163. This is at odds with the earlier penetration
depth study [22]. In Ref. [22], Yb doping leads to n > 3 (Δλ(T) ∼ T^(n))
for $x_{\rm non}=0.2$, which suggests a nodeless superconducting gap
[22]. The reason for this discrepancy is not clear to us.

Furthermore, in Fig. 4(c), κ₀/T manifests a nearly constant value around
1 mW K⁻² cm⁻¹, irrespective of Yb or Cd concentration, which
demonstrates a universal heat conduction in Yb- and Cd-doped CeCoIn₅.
The universal heat conduction is an important property of a nodal d-wave
superconducting gap, which means that the thermal conductivity is
unaffected by change in the bandwidth of impurity bound states γ[33,
34]. The universality results from the cancellation between two factors:
(i) the density of Andreev bound states, which is proportional to γ, and
(ii) the reduction of phase space for scattering of gapless excitations,
which is proportional to γ⁻¹[34]. Experimentally, the universal κ₀/T was
observed in optimally doped high-T_(c) cuprates YBa₂Cu₃O_(6.9) and
Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O₈ with a d-wave gap [35, 36]. For pure CeCoIn₅, in which a
2D nodal d-wave gap was also well established, the universal κ₀/T was
theoretically estimated to be ∼ 1 mW K⁻² cm⁻¹[8]. This agrees very well
with our experimental results for the Ce_(1 − x)Yb_(x)CoIn₅ and
CeCo(In_(1 − y)Cd_(y))₅ systems, showing that the nodal d-wave
superconducting gap in CeCoIn₅ is robust upon Yb and Cd doping. In this
context, there is no need to propose a fully gapped d-wave molecular
superfluid of composite pairs beyond $x_{\rm non}=0.2$[23]. Note that
for the CeCo(In_(1 − y)Cd_(y))₅ system, despite the fact that
substitution of Cd for In will introduce holes and the samples with
y = 0.008 and 0.011 have already entered the region where
superconductivity and antiferromagnetism coexist [29, 37, 38], the
universal heat conduction still holds. However, we also notice that in
an earlier heat transport study of Ce_(1 − x)La_(x)CoIn₅, κ₀/T ≈ 2 mW
K⁻² cm⁻¹ was observed for x = 0.05 and 0.1 [9]. This value is slightly
larger than the universal κ₀/T observed here in Yb- and Cd-doped
CeCoIn₅.

It should be pointed out that this universal heat conduction is only
valid in the clean limit where ℏΓ ≪ Δ₀[39]. Here Γ is the impurity
scattering rate, and Δ₀ is the gap maximum. When Γ is large, the
behavior is no longer universal, and the measured κ₀/T may be close to
the normal-state value κ_(N)/T. For the Yb-doped x = 0.163 sample, the
T_(c) drops by 40

The above discussion of universal heat conduction is based on a single
d-wave gap in CeCoIn₅. However, CeCoIn₅ is actually a multigap
superconductor [10, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44], which may make the situation
slightly complex. The STM study of pure CeCoIn₅ demonstrated that the
superconducting gap on the α band has the d_(x² − y²) symmetry, with the
gap maximum being about 600 μeV, while the gap on the β band is very
small, less than their energy resolution of 75 μeV [12]. The small gap
is presumably also d_(x² − y²). Since the T_(c) = 2.3 K of pure CeCoIn₅
is determined by the large gap, the "T_(c)" corresponding to the small
gap may be only or even smaller than 0.2 K. This means that, by
extrapolating the data between 0.1 and 0.4 K, what we get is a sum of
the universal κ₀/T of the α band and nearly the normal-state κ₀/T of the
β band. An even more complex situation may happen when Yb doping induces
a Fermi surface topology change [19]. To further discuss the universal
heat conduction in a scenario of multigaps for CeCoIn₅, more
angle-resolved photoemission spectroscopy and STM measurements on doped
samples are needed.

In summary, the heat transport properties of the Ce_(1 − x)Yb_(x)CoIn₅
and CeCo(In_(1 − y)Cd_(y))₅ systems have been systematically studied. We
observe a finite value of κ₀/T for x up to 0.163 and y up to 0.011.
Furthermore, κ₀/T is universal for both systems, with a value around 1
mW K⁻² cm⁻¹ which agrees very well with the theoretical estimation.
These results demonstrate that the nodal d-wave superconducting gap in
CeCoIn₅ is robust against Yb or Cd doping.

This work was supported by the Ministry of Science and Technology of
China (National Basic Research Program, Grants No. 2012CB821402 and No.
2015CB921401); the Natural Science Foundation of China; the China
Postdoctoral Science Foundation, Grant No. 2014M560288; the Program for
Professor of Special Appointment (Eastern Scholar) at Shanghai
Institutions of Higher Learning; and the STCSM of China (Grant No.
15XD1500200). Research at UCSD was supported by the U.S. Department of
Energy, Office of Basic Energy Sciences, Division of Materials Science
and Engineering, under Grant No. DE-FG02-04-ER46105 (materials
synthesis), and by the National Science Foundation under Grant No. DMR
1206553 (materials characterization). Work at the Brookhaven National
Laboratory was supported by the U.S. Department of Energy under Contract
No. DE-AC02-98CH10886.

## References

* [1] C. Petrovic, P. G. Pagliuso, M. F. Hundley, R. Movshovich, J. L.
Sarrao, J. D. Thompson, Z. Fisk, and P. Monthoux, J. Phys. Condens.
Matter **13**, L337 (2001). * [2] M. R. Norman, Science **332**, 196
(2011). * [3] D. J. Scalapino, Rev. Mod. Phys. **84**, 1383 (2012). *
[4] P. Aynajian, E. H. da Silva Neto, A. Gyenis, R. E. Baumbach, J. D.
Thompson, Z. Fisk, E. D. Bauer, and A. Yazdani, Nature (London) **486**,
201 (2012).

* [5] J. Van Dyke, F. Massee, M. P. Allan, J. C. Samus Davis, C.
Petrovic, and D. K. Morr, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. **111**, 11663
(2014). * [6] K. An, T. Sakakibara, R. Settai, Y. Onuki, M. Hiragi, M.
Ichioka, and K. Machida, Phys. Rev. Lett. **104**, 037002 (2010). * [7]
K. Izawa, H. Yamaguchi, Y. Matsuda, H. Shishido, R. Settai, and Y.
Onuki, Phys. Rev. Lett. **87**, 057002 (2001). * [8] R. Movshovich, M.
Jaime, J. D. Thompson, C. Petrovic, Z. Fisk, P. G. Pagliuso, and J. L.
Sarrao, Phys. Rev. Lett. **86**, 5152 (2001). * [9] M. A. Tanatar, J.
Paglione, S. Nakatsuji, D. G. Hawthorn, E. Boakhin, R. W. Hill, F.
Ronning, M. Sutherland, L. Taillefer, C. Petrovic, P. C. Canfield, and
Z. Fisk, Phys. Rev. Lett. **95**, 067002 (2005). * [10] G. Seyfarth, J.
P. Brison, G. Knebel, D. Aoki, G. Lapertot, and J. Flouquet, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **101**, 046401 (2008). * [11] W. K. Park, J. L. Sarrao, J. D.
Thompson, and L. H. Greene, Phys. Rev. Lett. **100**, 177001 (2008). *
[12] M. P. Allan, F. Massee, D. K. Morr, J. Van Dyke, A. W. Rost, A. P.
Mackenzie, C. Petrovic, and J. C. Davis, Nat. Phys. **9**, 468 (2013). *
[13] B. B. Zhou, S. Misra, E. H. da Silva Neto, P. Aynajian, R. E.
Baumbach, J. D. Thompson, E. D. Bauer, and A. Yazdani, Nat. Phys. **9**,
474 (2013). * [14] J. Paglione, T. A. Sayles, P.-C. Ho, J. R. Jeffries,
and M. B. Maple, Nat. Phys. **3**, 703 (2007). * [15] E. D. Bauer, Y.-F.
Yang, C. Capan, R. R. Urbano, C. F. Miclea, H. Sakai, F. Ronning, M. J.
Graf, A. V. Balatsky, R. Movshovich, A. D. Bianchi, A. P. Reyes, P. L.
Kuhns, J. D. Thompson, and Z. Fisk, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A.
**108**, 6857 (2011). * [16] L. Shu, R. E. Baumbach, M. Janoschek, E.
Gonzales, K. Huang, T. A. Sayles, J. Paglione, J. O’Brien, J. J. Hamlin,
D. A. Zocco, P.-C. Ho, C. A. McElroy, and M. B. Maple, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**106**, 156403 (2011). * [17] M. Shimozawa, T. Watashige, S. Yasumoto,
Y. Mizukami, M. Nakamura, H. Shishido, S. K. Goh, T. Terashima, T.
Shibauchi, and Y. Matsuda, Phys. Rev. B **86**, 144526 (2012). * [18] S.
Jang, B. D. White, I. K. Lum, H. Kim, M. A. Tanatar, W. E. Straszheim,
R. Prozorov, T. Keiber, F. Bridges, L. Shu, R. E. Baumbach, M.
Janoschek, and M. B. Maple, Philos. Mag. **94**, 4219 (2014). * [19] A.
Polyakov, O. Ignatchik, B. Bergk, K. Gotze, A. D. Bianchi, S. Blackburn,
B. Prevost, G. Seyfarth, M. Cote, D. Hurt, C. Capan, Z. Fisk, R. G.
Goodrich, I. Sheikin, M. Richter, and J. Wosnitza, Phys. Rev. B **85**,
245119 (2012). * [20] L. Dudy, J. D. Denlinger, L. Shu, M. Janoschek, J.
W. Allen, and M. B. Maple, Phys. Rev. B **88**, 165118 (2013). * [21] T.
Hu, Y. P. Singh, L. Shu, M. Janoschek, M. Dzero, M. B. Maple, and C. C.
Almasan, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A **110**, 7160 (2013). * [22] H.
Kim, M. A. Tanatar, R. Flint, C. Petrovic, R. Hu, B. D. White, I. K.
Lum, M. B. Maple, and R. Prozorov, Phys. Rev. Lett. **114**, 027003
(2015). * [23] O. Erten, R. Flint, and P. Coleman, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**114**, 027002 (2015). * [24] C. H. Booth, T. Durakiewicz, C. Capan, D.
Hurt, A. D. Bianchi, J. J. Joyce, and Z. Fisk, Phys. Rev. B **83**,
235117 (2011). * [25] Y. Mizukami, H. Shishido, T. Shibauchi, M.
Shimozawa, S. Yasumoto, D. Watanabe, M. Yamashita, H. Ikeda, T.
Terashima, H. Kontani, and Y. Matsuda, Nat. Phys. **7**, 849 (2011). *
[26] B. D. White, J. J. Hamlin, K. Huang, L. Shu, I. K. Lum, R. E.
Baumbach, M. Janoschek, and M. B. Maple, Phys. Rev. B **86**, 100502 (R)
(2012). * [27] H. Shakeripour, C. Petrovic, and L. Taillefer, New J.
Phys. **11**, 055065 (2009). * [28] V. S. Zapf, E. J. Freeman, E. D.
Bauer, J. Petricka, C. Sirvent, N. A. Frederick, R. P. Dickey, and M. B.
Maple, Phys. Rev. B **65**, 014506 (2001). * [29] L. D. Pham, T. Park,
S. Maquilon, J. D. Thompson, and Z. Fisk, Phys. Rev. Lett. **97**,
056404 (2006). * [30] J. Paglione, M. A. Tanatar, D. G. Hawthorn, E.
Boakhin, R. W. Hill, F. Ronning, M. Sutherland, L. Taillefer, C.
Petrovic, and P. C. Canfield, Phys. Rev. Lett. **91**, 246405 (2003). *
[31] C. Proust, E. Boakhin, R. W. Hill, L. Taillefer, and A. P.
Mackenzie, Phys. Rev. Lett. **89**, 147003 (2002). * [32] M. Suzuki, M.
A. Tanatar, N. Kikugawa, Z. Q. Mao, Y. Maeno, and T. Ishiguro, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **88**, 227004 (2002). * [33] P. A. Lee, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**71**, 1887 (1993). * [34] M. J. Graf, S. K. Yip, J. A. Sauls, and D.
Rainer, Phys. Rev. B **53**, 15147 (1996). * [35] L. Taillefer, B.
Lussier, R. Gagnon, K. Behnia, and H. Aubin, Phys. Rev. Lett. **79**,
483 (1997). * [36] S. Nakamae, K. Behnia, L. Balicas, F.
Rullier-Albenque, H. Berger, and T. Tamegai, Phys. Rev. B **63**, 184509
(2001). * [37] M. Nicklas, O. Stockert, T. Park, K. Habicht, K. Kiefer,
L. D. Pham, J. D. Thompson, Z. Fisk, and F. Steglich, Phys. Rev. B
**76**, 052401 (2007). * [38] R. R. Urbano, B.-L. Young, N. J. Curro, J.
D. Thompson, L. D. Pham, and Z. Fisk, Phys. Rev. Lett. **99**, 146402
(2007). * [39] Y. Sun and K. Maki, Europhys. Lett. **32**, 355 (1995). *
[40] R. Settai, H. Shishido, S. Ikeda, Y. Murakawa, M. Nakashima, D.
Aoki, Y. Haga, H. Harima, and Y. Onuki, J. Phys. Condens. Matter **13**,
L627 (2001). * [41] A. Koitzsch, I. Opahle, S. Elgazzar, S. V.
Borisenko, J. Geck, V. B. Zabolotnyy, D. Inosov, H. Shiozawa, M.
Richter, M. Knupfer, J. Fink, B. Buchner, E. D. Bauer, J. L. Sarrao, and
R. Follath, Phys. Rev. B **79**, 075104 (2009). * [42] X. Jia, Y. Liu,
L. Yu, J. He, L. Zhao _et al._, Chin. Phys. Lett. **28**, 057401 (2011).
