# Determination of irreversibility fields and superconducting parameters
in BaPb0.75Bi0.25O3

D. N. Zheng and Z. X. Zhao

National Laboratory for Superconductivity, Institute of Physics, Chinese
Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100080, People’s Republic of China

A. M. Campbell

Interdisciplinary Research Center in Superconductivity, University of
Cambridge, Madingley Road, Cambridge CB3 0HE, United Kingdom

###### Abstract

The dc magnetization of a superconducting BaPb0.75Bi0.25O3 sample has
been measured as a function of magnetic field and temperature. The
results showed that an irreversibility line lies considerably below the
superconducting normal phase transition boundary B_(c2)(T), similar to
that commonly observed in high-temperature superconductors, even though
BaPb0.75Bi0.25O3 displays a very long coherence length. We attributed
the observed large magnetically reversible region to a very small
thermodynamic field, which leads to low condensation energies. The
reversible magnetization data obtained in the region above the
irreversibility line enable us to determine a full set of
superconducting parameters for the material.

pacs: 0163-1829/2000/61(21)/14804(6)/515.00 + Footnote †: preprint:
PHYSICAL REVIEW B VOLUME 61, NUMBER 21 JUNE 2000-I

## I Introduction

The oxide superconductor Ba(Pb1-xBi3)O3 has attracted considerable
attention because of its interesting superconducting properties.
Superconductivity in this system occurs on the border of
metal-semiconductor transition, in the composition range 0<_x_<0.35 with
the maximum transition temperature T_(c) about 13 K (_x_∼ 0.25). [1, 2]
One of the intriguing features that this system exhibits is its
relatively high superconducting transition temperature despite very low
carrier concentration and density of states at the Fermi level. [3] In
contrast to high-temperature superconducting copper oxides,
Ba(Pb1-xBi3)O3 has a simple perovskite-type structure with isotropic
structure and without containing any transition-metal elements. Thus a
magnetic mechanism may not be expected for the superconductivity in the
compound. The superconducting coherence length of the compound is large
compared to that of high-temperature cuprates. This is of particular
interest for the study of flux pinning and critical current properties,
since it has been suggested that the short coherence length is one of
the primary factors that leads to the existence of the irreversibility
line and weak links at grain boundaries in high-temperature
superconductors. The unusual behavior of high-temperature
superconductors in the mixed state has attracted considerable attention.
[4] One of the most intriguing phenomena is the existence of the
so-called irreversibility line in the field-temperature (_B-T_) plane.
This line separates the _B-T_ plane into two regions: a magnetically
reversible one at high temperatures and fields and an irreversible one
at low temperatures and fields. It is now well established that the
phenomenon results from a complex scenario including very weak
electronic coupling between the superconducting CuO2 layers (which leads
to very large anisotropy), short coherence length, and high working
temperatures. Therefore, it is believed that the reversible flux motion
region in low-temperature superconductors would be too small to be
easily observed and would not be of any significance. Little work had
been made to investigate the reversible motion of flux lines for
low-temperature superconductors before the recognition of the
irreversibility line in high-temperature superconductors except for some
specially prepared quasi-two-dimensional films. [5, 6, 7] In 1991,
Suenaga _et al._ reported experimental observation of the
irreversibility line in commercial superconducting NbTi and Nb3Sn wires.
[8] They found that these materials have a clear irreversibility line
which is substantially lower than the superconducting B_(c2)(T) phase
line. They also found their $B_{\rm irr}$ data fitted well to a
flux-line-lattice melting line formulated by Houghton, Pelcovits, and
Sudbo, [9] and thus they interpreted the observed irreversibility line
as a melting line of the flux-line lattice. Schmidt, Israeloff, and
Goldman [10] investigated the irreversibility line of pure Nb film
samples following a similar procedure. They compared their experimental
data with different models and concluded that the irreversibility line
in Nb is also the flux-line-lattice melting line. In other
low-temperature superconducting materials, the irreversibility line has
also been observed. [11, 12, 13, 14] For the superconducting oxide
BaPb0.75Bi0.25O3, the low carrier concentration and low density of
states at the Fermi level should result in a low superconducting
condensation energy and a large magnetic penetration depth. This can
have considerable effects on flux pinning since the pinning energy is
proportional to the condensation energy and the penetration depth
provides a measure of the interaction distance of flux lines. In this
paper, we report magnetization measurement results on a BaPb0.75Bi0.25O3
sample and show a well-identified irreversibility line in this system.
Furthermore, by measuring the reversible magnetization carefully and
employing the Ginzburg-Landau relations, we were able to obtain a set of
superconducting parameters, such as the critical fields, the coherence
length, and the penetration depth for the material. The parameters are
of considerable interest for the understanding of superconductivity in
the system.

## II Experiment

The BaPb0.75Bi0.25O3 sample was prepared by a solid-state reaction
method. Phase purity was checked by x-ray diffrac tion for the sample,
and no impurity phases were detected within the sensitivity of the
experiment. Bar-shaped sintered samples of dimensions 1 x 1 x 6 mm³ were
used in magnetization measurements which were performed on a vibrating
sample magnetometer with the applied field parallel to the longest
dimension of the sample. For hysteresis loop measurements a field ramp
rate 5 mT/s was used. A 10-min delay was introduced prior to each
measurement to ensure temperature stabilization. Magnetic relaxation
measurements were performed at 4.2 K and 1 T. The field was increased
slowly to the required value at 1 mT/s in order to prevent the magnet
from overshooting, and the magnetization data were taken about 1 s
afterward.

## III Results and Discussion

As we shall show later in Table 1, the coherence length is about 4-30
times larger than that of YBa₂Cu₃O₇ (depending on the crystal
orientation) and is larger than the width of the structurally disordered
region (∼0.5-2 nm). This together with its isotropic structure makes
BaPb_(0.75)Bi_(0.25)O₃ an interesting and a comparison model for the
study of the weak-link behavior in superconducting ceramic samples that
is universally seen in high-temperature superconductors. It has been
suggested [15, 16] that in high-temperature cuprates suppression of the
superconducting order parameter over a grain boundary "width" comparable
to or larger than the coherence length (for YBa₂Cu₃O₇: ξ_(ab)∼ 1-2 nm,
ξ_(c)∼ 0.2-0.4 nm) and crystal lattice misorientations are responsible
for the poor coupling between grains that leads to very low
polycrystalline transport critical current densities. However, sintered
polycrystalline BaPb_(0.75)Bi_(0.25)O₃ appears to show evidence of
weak-link behavior in a fashion similar to that of polycrystalline high
temperature cuprates. [17] In particular, it has been shown that
superconductor-insulator-superconductor (SIS) type weak links existed at
grain boundaries due to an excess of Pb and Bi. [18] Thus we might
conclude that the data we measured represent the properties within
grains.

Zero-field-cooled magnetic moment data are shown in Fig. 1 as a function
of temperature and magnetic field for the BaPb_(0.75)Bi_(0.25)O₃ sample.
It can be seen that the magnetic moment varies linearly with temperature
for each value of applied field in the superconducting state. The
superconducting transition temperature is defined as the intercept of a
linear extrapolation of the magnetic moment in the superconducting state
with the normal-state base line. It is clearly shown in the figure that
the transition temperature decreases with increasing magnetic field.

Magnetic hysteresis curves have been measured at several temperatures.
The critical current density J_(c) was calculated from the magnetic
hysteresis data using the Bean model. [19] Assuming grains are
spherical,

J_(c) (A/m²) = 3 ΔM/d,

where ΔM (A/m) is the difference in magnetization for increasing and
decreasing field, and d (m) is the diameter of the grains. The grain
size is about 5 μm for our sample. The magnetic field dependence of
J_(c) for difference temperatures is shown in Fig. 2.

A moment versus field (m-B) loop measured at 9 K is shown in Fig. 3. The
background contribution has been subtracted from the data. Magnetic
hysteresis Δm versus the applied field is also plotted in this figure.
The irreversibility field B_(ir) is determined as the field above which
Δm becomes undetectable, as indicated in the plot. In the reversible
region, J_(c) is less than 10⁵ A/m² and is below the resolution of the
instrument. The upper critical field B_(c2) can also be obtained from
the data by extrapolating the reversible magnetization to the m = 0
line, and the values are in agreement

Figure 3: Magnetic hysteresis curve measured at 9 K. The magnetic
hysteresis Δm extracted from the curve is also plotted against the
applied field. The upper critical field B_(c2) and the irreversibility
field B_(ir) are indicated.

Figure 2: Critical current density J_(c) as a function of magnetic field
and temperature. From top to bottom the temperatures are 5, 6, 7, 9, and
10 K.

with those determined from the _m-T_ curves. The experimental data of
_B__c_2 and B_(n) are presented in Fig. 4.

As expected, _B__c_2 increases linearly with decreasing temperature with
a slope of -0.65 T/K. The zero-temperature value of this parameter
_B__c_2(0) is estimated using the formula [20]

B_(c)₂(0) = −0.7 ∂B_(c)₂/∂T|_(T)_(ε).

Application of Eq. (1) to the experimental data yields a value of 5.2 T
for _B__c_2(0). In addition, in the field region between B_(n) and
_B__c_2, we may apply the theory of Abrikosov [21] to the reversible
magnetization data, the linear part in Fig. 3 is described by

−μ₀M = (B_(c)₂ − B)/[β_(A)(2 κ² − 1)].

Here b_(A) is a constant and is equal to 1.06 for a triangular flux-line
lattice, and k is the Ginzburg-Landau parameter. Using the data
collected at 9, 10, and 10.5 K, the value of k at each temperature was
calculated and the averaged value was found to be _k_ 106, which is very
close to the calculated value based on a single-band model. [22] Other
superconducting parameters can be calculated by using the
Ginzburg-Landau relations: From _B__c_2=V_2_k_Pc and
_B__c_1=_B__c_(ln_k_+0.5)/(_v_2_k_), the initial slope of B_(c) and
_B__c_2 is found to be -4.6 and -0.17 mT/K, respectively. For B_(c), the
zero-temperature value is obtained by using the BCS expression
_B__c_2=1.74_B__c_(0)[1 - _T__T_c], which gives B_(c)(0)=31 mT. Since
there is no theoretical expression for the temperature dependence of
_B__c_1, a reasonable approximation to obtain _H__c_1(0) is to use the
empirical relation _B__c_1(_T_)=_B__c_1(0)[1 - (_T__T_c)2]. This in turn
yields _B__c_1(0)=0.97 mT. Then using relations _B__c_2=_Ph_0/(2_p_k_2),
_k_(_T_)=_k_(0)[1 - _T__T_c]-1/2, and _k_=_l_(0)/_k_(0), the coherence
length and penetration depth are calculated to be _k_(0)=6.6 nm and
_l_(0)=700 nm, respectively. Values of these parameters at _T_=0 are
listed in Table 1. They are, again, in agreement with those reported in
Ref. [17]. In particular, our results are in good agreement with the
values obtained on single-crystal samples. [3,23,24] The very large k
value means that the material is an extreme type-II superconductor. It
is worthy to point out that unlike high-temperature cuprates
BaPb0.75Bi0.25O3 is an extreme Pippard superconductor. The ratio
_kh_0/_l_ is estimated to be 102, [22] here, l is the mean free path
length and _kh_0 is the BCS coherence length. Therefore, the magnetic
field penetration depth l is expected to be significantly greater than
the London penetration depth l_(L) and does not provide a direct measure
of the superconducting carrier density. Nevertheless, the large
penetration depth can be qualitatively explained by the low carrier
concentration. The results also show a rather low thermodynamic field
value for BaPb0.75Bi0.25O3 [_B__c_ 0.3 T for NbTi (Ref. [8]) and 1.1 T
for YBa2Cu3O7 (Ref. [25]). This is resulted from a rather low density of
states at the Fermi level in this material. In the framework of the BCS
theory, the electronic specific-heat coefficient g is related to the
critical fields via the relations _g_T_2=1.7x106_B__c or
_dB__c_2/_dT_=4.48x103r (in SI units). The results obtained from the two
relations are consistent and give a g of 0.5 mJ/mol K2 (_r_ 11 _m_l_l_m,
[23] while using the second relation), corresponding to a density of
states value 0.17 states/f.u. eV spin. The density of states is very
small in BaPb0.75Bi0.25O3, and in comparison to T_(c) of elements or
intermetallic compounds, the transition temperature in this oxide
superconductor is 3 times higher. [26]

The data presented in Fig. 4 illustrate a rather large field and
temperature range of reversible flux motion in BaPb0.75Bi0.25O3. In
fact, it is as large as  2/3 of that for YBa2Cu3O7 in the same range of
reduced temperature (_T_/_T__c_) and reduced field [_B_/_B__c_2(0)]. It
is well known that the irreversibility line in high-temperature cuprates
originates from short coherence lengths, large anisotropy, and high
transition temperatures. The irreversibility line observed in
low-temperature superconductors is either very close to the transition
line, leaving a very small reversible region, or shown in materials
having short coherence length like the Chevrel phase superconductor
PbMo6Sn8. [13] For BaPb0.75Bi0.25O3, therefore, the large reversible
region is, at first sight, somewhat surprising since it has a low T_(c),
a long coherence length, and a cubic structure. However, we note that
the thermodynamic field B_(c) is very low for this material as shown in
Table 1. At a more fundamental level, the irreversibility line is the
manifestation of the interplay between quenched disorder of the
flux-line lattice (due to flux pinning) and thermal fluctuations. It has
been pointed out [4] that the fundamental parameter governing the
strength of thermal fluctuations is the Ginzburg number
_G__i_=[_k__B__T__c_/_B__c_2(0)_e_d_^3(0)]2/2 (here _e_=(_M__z_/_M_)1/2
is the square root of the ratio of the out-of-plane and in-plane
effective masses) which measures the relative size of the minimal
(_T_=0) condensation energy _B__c_2(0)_e_d_^3(0) within a coherence
volume and the critical temperature T_(c). With

Figure 4: Temperature dependence of _B__c_2 and B_(n). The dashed line
represents the fit to the thermal depinning line Eq. (4), while the
solid line is the fit to the flux-line-lattice melting line, Eq. (5).

increasing Ginzburg number G_(i), the thermal fluctuation region and
those parts of the B-T phase diagram where flux motion is reversible
become larger. We can calculate G_(i) for BaPb_(0.75)Bi_(0.25)O₃ as well
as for some other superconductors such as high-temperature oxide
YBa₂Cu₃O₇, low-temperature metallic alloy NbTi, and Chevrel phase
PbMo₆S₈ using the parameters in Table 1 and in Refs. 25, 8, and 13. The
results show that the G_(i) value of BaPb_(0.75)Bi_(0.25)O₃ is of the
same order as YBa₂Cu₃O₇, but several orders of magnitude higher than
other low-temperature superconductors, indicating large thermal
fluctuations. Furthermore, flux pinning is weak in
BaPb_(0.75)Bi_(0.25)O₃. The pinning energy is proportional to B_(c)².
Hence small B_(c) means small pinning energy and weak flux pinning. The
ratio of the critical current density J_(c) to the depairing current
density J_(c0) ( ∼ B_(c)/μ₀λ) is a measure of the strength of the
pinning. For our sample, we found J_(c)/J_(c0)∼10⁻³, which is much
smaller than the ratio for materials like NbTi. Thus the low
irreversibility line in BaPb_(0.75)Bi_(0.25)O₃ can be qualitatively
explained by the strong thermal fluctuations and weak pinning.

The small pinning energy is also apparent from magnetic relaxation
measurements. Figure 5 shows data taken at 4.2 K with an applied field
of 1 T. The equilibrium magnetization, calculated as an average of the
magnetization of increasing and decreasing field, has been subtracted
from the data. Despite a relatively large noise level, the data follow a
logarithmic relation well. The effective pinning energy U₀ is found to
be 12 meV from a fit of the data shown in Fig. 5 to the relation M(t) =
M(0)[ 1 − (k_(B)T/U₀)ln t ]. This value is comparable to that of
YBa₂Cu₃O₇.[27]

A simple explanation for the irreversibility line is based upon the
thermal depinning theory put forward by Yeshuran and Malozemoff.[28] In
this model, it is suggested that the irreversibility line is caused by
thermally activated depinning process of the flux lines. They assumed
that the pinning energy scales as U₀^(∘)B_(c)²₀^(α)²^(ξ), where a₀ =
1.075(Φ₀/B)^(1/2) is the flux line lattice spacing. The standard
Ginzburg-Landau results B_(c)∝(1 - t) and ξ∝(1 - t)^(−1/2) then led them
to U₀∝(1 - t)^(3/2)/B, where t = T/T_(c). By combining this temperature
dependence of the pinning energy with the thermal-activation-dependent
critical current, J_(c) = J_(c0)[1 - (k_(B)T/U₀)ln (BrΩ)], from Ref. 29,
and requiring that the critical current be zero, they obtained a
power-law relation to describe the irreversibility line:

$$B_{\rm irr}(T) = B_{0}(1 - T/T_{c})^{3/2}.$$

Here J_(c0) is the critical current density in the absence of thermal
activation, r is the distance between pinning centers, Ω is the
oscillation frequency of a flux line inside a pinning well, and E_(c) is
the minimum measurement voltage per meter. The logarithm is typically
about 30 (Refs. 28 and 29) and is considered constant for the purposes
of their derivation.

We use this equation to fit our data, and the fitted curve is
represented by the dashed line in Fig. 4. As shown in the figure, within
the experimental error bar the fit of the experimental data to Eq. (4)
is good, but not as good as the melting line, which we will discuss
later. In deriving Eq. (4), it was assumed that the flux bundle volume
contains one power of the coherence length ξ and two powers of the flux
lattice spacing a₀. We relax this assumption and allow an unknown power
d of the coherence length, and assume U₀ scales as
U₀^(∘)B_(c)²a₀^(3 − d)^(ξ)^(d). This leads to
U₀^(∘)(1 − t)^(2 − d2)/B^((3 − d)/2) and
$B_{\rm irr}$^(∘)(1 − t)^((4 − d)/(3 − d)). Then we find that the best
fit power law for the irreversibility line results in an exponent 1.28,
which leads to the nonsensical result d∼−0.6. On the other hand,
according to the thermal depinning model, the magnitude of $B_{\rm irr}$
depends on the time scale of the measurements, moving down for slower
measurements. At 4.2 K we performed magnetic hysteresis measurements
with three different field sweep rates 20, 7, and 2 mT/s. We found that
$B_{\rm irr}$ decreased approximately 0.1 T when the sweep rate was
reduced from 20 to 2 mT/s. This change is small and of the same order of
the error bar of $B_{\rm irr}$. Nevertheless, the dependence of
$B_{\rm irr}$ on the field sweep rate indicates, at least qualitatively,
the thermal depinning nature for the irreversibility line we obtained.

In the work of Suenaga _et al._[8] and Schmidt _et al._,[10] the
irreversibility line observed in NbTi, Nb₃Sn and Nb was compared with
the flux-line-lattice melting theory of Houghton, Pelcovits, and
Sudbo[9] and surprisingly good data fitting was found. In this theory,
the authors found that nonlocal effects (i.e., the finite
wave-vector-dependent moduli) are crucial when dealing with compounds
where κ is large, as it is in BaPb_(0.75)Bi_(0.25)O₃. Specifically, they
found that moduli are significantly softer than they would be in a
purely local theory. For example, in the local limit, c₆₆ vanishes at B
= B_(c2) whereas c₄₄ and c₁₁ achieve their maximum values at the upper
critical field. However, the lattice softens significantly in the
nonlocal case and all moduli vanish at B = B_(c2). Flux lines tilt
easily when c₄₄ becomes small as a result of thermal fluctuations. The
authors deduced the mean-square displacement of a flux lattice due to
thermal fluctuations from the nonlocal moduli and used the Lindermann
criterion to estimate the melting line of the flux line lattice. Their
melting line is given by

$$\frac{t}{\sqrt{1 - t}}\frac{\sqrt{b}}{1 - b}\Bigg{(}\frac{4(\sqrt{2} - 1)}{\sqrt{1 - b}}+1\Bigg{)} = \alpha,$$

where α measures the degree of susceptibility to thermal motion and is
given by

$$\alpha = 2 \times 10^{3}\Bigg{(}\frac{c}{\kappa}\Bigg{)}^{2}\Bigg{(}\frac{B_{c2}(0)}{T_{c}^{2}}\frac{M}{M_{z}}\Bigg{)}^{1/2}.$$

Figure 5: Magnetic relaxation data taken at 4.2 K and 1 T.

Here t = T/T_(c), $b_{m}\!=\!B_{\rm irr}/B_{c2}$. The Lindemann
criterion for melting is governed by the parameter c, which is the ratio
of the mean-square thermal displacement of the flux-line lattice from
their equilibrium positions to the flux-line-lattice spacing.

The solid line in Fig. 4 is a single parameter fit of Eq. (5) to the
measured irreversibility line data. Within the experimental error bar,
it can be seen that the theoretical melting line fits experimental data
well. Since M_(z)/M equals 1 in the case of BaPb_(0.75)Bi_(0.25)O₃, we
can estimate the Lindemann criterion c. Combining κ with the curve fit
value for the parameter α gives c = 0.066 for our sample. This value is
very similar to that observed by Suenaga _et al._ for NbTi and Nb₃Sn
Ref. [8] and is reasonable since values for the melting of an atomic
lattice are approximately 0.1.

Although the irreversibility line data reported here and those in Refs.
[8] and [10] fit the flux lattice melting theory well, there is a lack
of direct evidence to show unambiguously that flux-line-lattice melting
can be observed in these materials. For a flux-line-lattice melting
transition, we expect abrupt changes in resistivity, susceptibility,
magnetization, and anomalies in calorimetric measurements as have been
illustrated in some clean high-T_(c) superconductors.[30, 31, 32, 33,
34, 35] For low-T_(c) superconductors, to our knowledge only NbSe₂ shows
a clear sign of flux-lattice melting.[36]

The relation between the irreversibility and melting lines is still an
issue of current debate. In some reports, the irreversibility line
coincides with the melting line,[37, 38] while in some other reports the
two lines appear to be uncorrelated.[33, 39] It has been suggested that
in high-temperature cuprates the melting line could be the upper limit
of the irreversibility line. If flux creep is suppressed by, for
example, applying a weak transverse ac magnetic field,[40] then the two
lines coincide with each other.

Finally, we would like to point out that it is difficult to conclude
which of the two models discussed above explains the nature of the
irreversibility line in BaPb_(0.75)Bi_(0.25)O₃ merely based on the
fitting in Fig. 4. In particular, we should also take the experimental
uncertainty in determining $B_{\rm irr}$ into account. Nevertheless, we
want to emphasize that the very low B_(c) is a major factor that leads
to the very low irreversibility line for BaPb_(0.75)Bi_(0.25)O₃
regardless of the exact mechanism of the irreversibility line. This is
further supported by the following results.

The upper critical field and the irreversibility line of another
superconducting oxide LiTi₂O₄ have also been measured. From the results,
an irreversibility line was identified too. The results show that the
irreversible region is smaller than that observed in the
BaPb_(0.75)Bi_(0.25)O₃ sample. This is probably because LiTi₂O₄ has a
higher density of states,[26] which leads to a large condensation energy
compared with BaPb_(0.75)Bi_(0.25)O₃. In a recent work, Babic _et
al.[41]_ measured the irreversibility line on the same YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ)
single crystal with a range of different δ values and compared their
$B_{\rm irr}$ data with B_(c)(0) data for the same range of δ value
obtained in specific-heat measurements. The comparison revealed a
striking similarity between these two quantities, showing the close
mutual relation between the "strength" of superconductivity B_(c)²(0)
and the irreversibility field. They concluded that the condensation
energy predominantly determines the magnitude of the irreversibility
line of YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) over a significant range of δ. Their results
are in agreement with the conclusion we draw here.

In summary, we have performed systematic magnetization measurements on
polycrystalline BaPb_(0.75)Bi_(0.25)O₃. An irreversibility line
$B_{\rm irr}(T)$, which is significantly lower than the superconducting
phase transition line B_(c2)(T), is identified for the material. Large
magnetization relaxation has also been observed with a rate similar to
that of YBa₂Cu₃O₇. A set of superconducting parameters, including the
critical fields, the coherence length ξ, the penetration depth λ, and
the Ginzburg-Landau parameter κ has been evaluated using reversible
magnetization data for BaPb_(0.75)Bi_(0.25)O₃. We attribute the
existence of the wide magnetic reversible region and the pronounced flux
creep effects to the very low thermodynamic field of the material, which
results from its low density of states at the Fermi level.

###### Acknowledgements.

We would like to thank D. S. Sinclar for the preparation of the samples.
This work was supported by the K. C. Wong Education Foundation, Hong
Kong, the National Center for Research and Development on
Superconductivity of China and Engineering and Physical Sciences
Research Council, UK.

## References

* [1] A. W. Sleight, J. L. Gillson, and P. E. Bierestedt, Solid State
Commun. **17**, 27 (1975). * [2] T. D. Thanh, A. Koma, and S. Tanaka,
Appl. Phys. **22**, 205 (1980). * [3] B. Batlogg, Physica B **126**, 275
(1984). * [4] G. Blatter, M. V. Feigel’man, V. B. Geshkenbein, A. I.
Larkin, and V. M. Vinokur, Rev. Mod. Phys. **66**, 1125 (1994). * [5] P.
L. Gammel, A. F. Hebard, and D. J. Bishop, Phys. Rev. Lett. **60**, 144
(1988). * [6] J. M. Graybeal and M. R. Beasley, Phys. Rev. Lett. **56**,
173 (1986). * [7] P. Berghuis, A. L. F. van der Slot, and P. H. Kes,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **65**, 2583 (1990). * [8] M. Suenaga, A. K. Ghosh, Y.
Xu, and D. O. Welch, Phys. Rev. Lett. **66**, 1777 (1991). * [9] A.
Houghton, R. A. Pelcovits, and S. Sudbo, Phys. Rev. B **40**, 6763
(1989). * [10] M. F. Schmidt, N. E. Israeloff, and A. M. Goldman, Phys.
Rev. B **48**, 3404 (1993). * [11] H. Drulis, Z. G. Xu, J. W. Brill, L.
E. De Long, and J.-C. Chou, Phys. Rev. B **44**, 4731 (1991). * [12] C.
Rossel, O. Pena, H. Schmitt, and M. Sergent, Physica C **181**, 363
(1991). * [13] D. N. Zheng, H. D. Ramsbottom, and D. P. Hampshire, Phys.
Rev. B **52**, 12 931 (1995). * [14] J. Guimpel, P. Hoghoj, I. K.
Schuller, J. Vanacken, and Y.

Bruynseraede, Physica C **175**, 197 (1991). * (15) D. Dimos, P.
Chaudhari, J. Mannhart, and F. K. LeGoues, Phys. Rev. Lett. **61**, 219
(1988). * (16) D. R. Clark, T. M. Shaw, and D. Dimos, J. Am. Ceram. Soc.
**72**, 1103 (1989). * (17) L. Cooley, M. Daeumling, T. C. Willis, and
D. C. Larbalestier, IEEE Trans. Magn. **35**, 2314 (1988). * (18) T.
Takagi, Y.-M. Chiang, and A. Roshko, J. Appl. Phys. **68**, 5750
(1990). * (19) C. P. Bean, Rev. Mod. Phys. **36**, 31 (1964). * (20) N.
R. Werthamer, E. Helfand, and P. C. Hohenberg, Phys. Rev. **147**, 295
(1966). * (21) A. A. Abrikosov, Zh. Eksp. Teror. Fiz. **32**, 1442
(1957) [Sov. Phys. JETP **5**, 1174 (1957)]. * (22) K. Kitazawa, S.
Uchida, and S. Tanaka, Physica B **135**, 505 (1985). * (23) K.
Kitazawa, A. Katsui, A. Toriumi, and S. Tanaka, Solid State Commun.
**52**, 459 (1984). * (24) H. Takagi, M. Naito, S. Uchida, K. Kitazawa,
and S. Tanaka, Solid State Commun. **55**, 1019 (1985). * (25) D. N.
Zheng, A. M. Campbell, J. D. Johnson, J. R. Cooper, F. J. Blunt, A.
Porch, and P. A. Freeman, Phys. Rev. B **49**, 1417 (1994). * (26) B.
Batlogg, R. J. Cava, L. F. Schneemeyer, and G. P. Espinosa, IBM J. Res.
Dev. **33**, 208 (1989). * (27) Y. Xu, M. Suenaga, A. R. Moodenbaugh,
and D. O. Welch, Phys. Rev. B **40**, 10 882 (1989). * (28) Y. Teshurun
and A. P. Malozemoff, Phys. Rev. Lett. **60**, 2202 (1988). * (29) A. M.
Campbell and J. E. Evetts, Adv. Phys. **21**, 199 (1972). * (30) H.
Safar, P. L. Gammel, D. A. Huse, D. J. Bishop, J. R. Rice, and D. M.
Ginsberg, Phys. Rev. Lett. **69**, 824 (1992). * (31) W. K. Kwok, J.
Fendrich, S. Fleshler, U. Welp, J. Downey, and G. W. Crabtree, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **72**, 1092 (1994). * (32) B. Billon, M. Charalambous, J.
Chaussy, R. Koch, and R. Liang, Phys. Rev. B **55**, R14 753 (1997). *
(33) E. Zeldov, D. Majer, M. Konczykowski, V. B. Geshkenbein, and V. M.
Vinokur, Nature (London) **375**, 373 (1995). * (34) A. Schilling, R. A.
Fisher, N. E. Phillips, U. Welp, D. Dasgupta, W. K. Kwok, and G. W.
Crabtree, Nature (London) **382**, 791 (1996). * (35) M. Roulin, A.
Junod, and E. Walker, Science **273**, 1210 (1996). * (36) K. Ghosh, S.
Ramakrishnan, A. K. Grover, Gautam I. Menon, G. Chandra, T. V. C. Rao,
G. Ravikumar, P. K. Mishra, V. C. Sahni, C. V. Tomy, G. Balakrishnan, D.
Mck Paul, and S. Bhattacharya, Phys. Rev. Lett. **76**, 4600 (1996). *
(37) R. Cubitt, E. M. Forgan, G. Yang, S. L. Lee, D. McK. Paul, H. A.
Mook, M. Yethiraj, P. H. Kes, T. W. Li, A. A. Menovsky, Z. Taranowski,
and K. Mortensen, Nature (London) **365**, 407 (1993). * (38) D. E.
Farrell, E. Johnston-Halperin, L. Klein, P. Fournier, A. Kapitulnik, E.
M. Forgan, A. I. M. Rae, T. W. Li, M. L. Trawick, R. Sasik, and J. C.
Garland, Phys. Rev. B **53**, 11 807 (1996). * (39) U. Welp, J. A.
Fendrich, W. K. Kwok, G. W. Crabtree, and B. W. Veal, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**76**, 4809 (1996). * (40) M. Willemin, A. Schilling, H. Keller, C.
Rossel, J. Hofer, U. Welp, W. K. Kwok, R. J. Olsson, and G. W. Crabtree,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **81**, 4236 (1998). * (41) D. Babic, J. R. Cooper, J.
W. Hodby, and Chen Changkang, Phys. Rev. B **60**, 698 (1999).
