Oxygen and rare-earth doping of the 90-K superconducting perovskite
YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − x)

J. M. Tarascon, W. R. McKinnon, L. H. Greene, G. W. Hull, and E. M.
Vogel

Bell Communications Research, 331 Newman Springs Road, Red Bank, New
Jersey 07701-7020

###### Abstract

Structural, magnetic, and electronic properties of compounds in the
series RBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − x) (R = Nd, Sm, ..., and Lu) were studied.
Resistivity, Meissner-effect, and shielding measurements have revealed
superconductivity among all the rare-earth compounds, except La, Pr, and
Tb, with critical temperatures T_(c) measured at the midpoint of the
resistive transition ranging from 87 to 95 K. No depression of T_(c) was
observed upon introduction of most of the rare-earth magnetic ions.
Susceptibility measurements down to 1.6 K have shown that an
antiferromagnetic ordering (most likely due to dipole-dipole
interactions) occurs only for the Gd compound. Changes in oxygen content
in these materials drastically affect their physical properties. The
importance of the cooling rate during the synthesis of the sample has
been correlated to oxygen content. T_(c)’s are optimized by slow
cooling. Annealing at 700^(∘)C in oxygen pressure of 40 atmospheres
slightly increases T_(c), while annealing under vacuum at 420^(∘)C
destroys T_(c) and induces a semiconducting behavior. These changes in
oxygen content and T_(c) are perfectly reversible.

## Introduction

The recent discovery of superconductivity at 30 K in the Ba-La-Cu-O
system by Bednorz and Muller [1] has generated tremendous interest among
physicists and material scientists and sparked intensive studies of the
cuprate systems. Superconductivity in the above system was ascribed to
the oxygen-defect perovskite phase La_(2 − x)Ba_(x)CuO₄ (Refs. [2] and
[3]) and within the same system bulk superconductivity at 40 K has been
established by other workers using strontium instead of barium as
doping. [4, 5, 6] Further research has led Wu _et al._[7] to the
discovery of superconductivity at 90 K in the multiphase Y-Ba-Cu-O
system. We independently confirmed their results, [8] isolated the phase
(YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − x)) responsible for superconductivity in this system, and
established its crystal structure. [9] The structure can be viewed
(Fig. 1) as a stacking of three perovskite layers with a plane of
yttrium atoms every three layers. Independently, this phase was also
isolated by two other research groups. [10, 11] The YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − x)
phase is deficient in oxygen, but x-ray crystallography could not
provide evidence for the ordering of the oxygen vacancies. However,
recent neutron studies [12] have unambiguously shown that the oxygen
vacancies are ordered, leading to the presence of copper-oxygen chains
within the structure.

Our previous studies [6] of the La-Sr-Cu-O perovskite have shown that
T_(c) is dramatically affected by subtle changes in oxygen content. Here
we show that oxygen plays an important role in the Y-Ba-Cu-O system as
well.

An exciting challenge is to understand the interplay between magnetism
and superconductivity. This was addressed in our study of the
substitution of La by other rare-earth metals in the 40 K
superconducting phase. [13] In those materials, we found that increasing
the concentration of rare-earth R ions depressed T_(c), probably due to
a volume-change effect. However, a magnetic ordering transition was
never observed because the phase was destroyed before a sufficient
concentration of magnetic ions could be added. We have performed similar
studies with the 90-K superconducting YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − x) phase and find
that the compounds RBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − x) (R = Sm,Eu,Gd,Dy, Ho,Er,Tm) can be
prepared as single phase and that the T_(c) for these phases remains
essentially constant at 93 +- 2 K, independent of R. None of these
phases order magnetically down to 1.6 K, except GdBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − x) which
orders antiferromagnetically at T_(N) = 2.3 K. During the course of

Figure 1: The structure of YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − x) is shown.

this investigation, we learned of work by Fisk _et al._14 and Takagi _et
al._15 who have investigated the R substitution on mixed-phase materials
and by Murphy _et al._,16 who have intensively studied the
EuBa2Cu3O7-_x_ phase.

## Experiment

Samples of nominal composition _R_Ba2Cu3O7-_x_ (_R_ = rare earth) were
prepared by thoroughly mixing appropriate amounts of BaCO3, R2O3, and
CuO powders, each 99.999

The crystal structure9 has revealed that these compounds contain oxygen
defects. Therefore, one might expect that like the La2-_x_SrxCuO4
system, the oxygen content can be increased or decreased by annealing
the samples under oxygen or vacuum, respectively. We annealed some of
the samples at 720 degC under 40 bars of oxygen or at 420 degC under
vacuum (10-3 Torr), and remeasured their physical properties. The oxygen
stoichiometry in the as-prepared sample was determined by
thermogravimetric analysis in which the weight loss of a sample heated
at 20 degC/min in a reducing atmosphere (4

Resistivities were measured using a standard four-probe method on
samples with silver paint contacts. In some samples, the contacts were
removed with acetone so the sample could be reannealed and remeasured.
The shielding currents, the Meissner-effect expelled flux, and the
susceptibility from 4.2 K to room temperature were measured with a
superconducting quantum interference device magnetometer. The
thermometers used in both resistivity and susceptibility measurements
were calibrated to +- 0.2 K. The samples were characterized by powder
x-ray diffraction in the Bragg-Brentano geometry with Cu _Ka_ radiation.

## Results

X-ray powder diffraction shows that the compounds of nominal composition
_R_Ba2Cu3O7-_x_ with R = Sm, Gd, Eu, Dy, Ho, Er, and Tm are single
phase. The materials with R = La, Pr, Nd, and Yb have weak extra peaks
corresponding to a few percent of a second unidentified phase; for R =
Lu, the second phase accounted for at least half the intensity in the
powder pattern, and we could not reliably refine the lattice parameters.
The compound with R = Tb did not form under the conditions described
above, even though its neighboring compounds with Gd and Dy formed
easily. Perhaps this is because Tb can

Figure 2: Orthorhombic unit cell parameters (_a,b,c,V_) as a function of
the rare earth R in the _R_Ba2Cu3O7-_x_ series for the as-prepared
samples (filled circles) and vacuum-annealed samples (open squares) are
shown. The lines drawn are a guide to the eye.

have two oxidation states (3+ and 4+), as indicated by the starting
oxide Tb_a_O_?.

Figure 2 and Table 1 give the lattice parameters for samples annealed in
oxygen at 950 degC and annealed under vacuum at 420 degC. (For R = Pr,
the peaks overlap strongly, suggesting a, b, and _c_/3 are all about
equal to a refined value of 3.922.) The samples annealed under oxygen
are orthorhombic, but _c_/3 is almost equal to b, so many of the peaks
overlap in the powder pattern; a is about 2

When the samples are annealed under vacuum they become tetragonal to
within our resolution. The parameter c increases by about 1

The two compounds R = Pr and La are not superconducting. The powder
pattern of Pr is almost cubic, and the a parameter is about 0.7

The rare-earth samples were reduced under an argon-hydrogen mixture to
determine the oxygen content. The TGA traces obtained for YBa2Cu3O7-_x_
are shown in Fig. 3. A value of 6.72 for the oxygen content was obtained
assuming the end products are Cu, BaO, and Y2O3, which is in reasonable
agreement with 6.7, obtained from recent neutron studies. However,
caution has to be exercised in so interpreting the data because of
several problems. First, it is difficult to determine the final
temperature on the TGA curve at which the reduction process is
completed. Second, powder x-ray diffraction of the reduced product for
the Y compound indicates several peaks from BaO and Cu metal but only
one from Y2O3. The formation of Y2Cu2O5 instead of Y2O3 has even been
suggested,12 but we were not able to detect evidence for this phase by
powder x-ray diffraction. Thus our calculations were performed using
BaO, Y2O3, and Cu metal as reduction

Table 2: The magnetic properties (Meissner, magnetic effective moments,
and paramagnetic Curie temperatures) are reported for the
$R{\rm Ba}_{2}{\rm Cu}_{3}{\rm O}_{7−x}$ series, along with their
electrical properties (resistivity and transition temperatures). The
midpoint ($T_{\rm em}$) of the superconducting transition is defined as
described in the text.

Figure 4: The TGA traces are shown for YBa2Cu3O7−_x_ when heated and
cooled in different partial pressures of oxygen. Each treatment sequence
can simply be visualized by first looking at the star (starting point)
and following the arrows. (a) A vacuum-annealed sample is first heated
and then cooled under oxygen at a rate of 10 °C/min. (b) The as-prepared
sample is heated under argon, cooled in argon and reheated in oxygen.
(c) Finally a vacuum-annealed sample is heated in air, quenched in air,
reheated in air and slow cooled in air.

of the oxygen partial pressure in obtaining materials rich in oxygen.
The sample was then quenched to room temperature. Because of the
experimental setup we were not able to collect the TGA trace, but the
weight of the sample after quenching was lower than it was when
previously heated in air at 500 degC. The quenched sample was then
reannealed in air up to 800 degC and slowly cooled (10 degC/min) in air.
A weight gain is observed during heating, and the sample gained further
weight on cooling in air. The difference in oxygen stoichiometry between
the sample after slow cooling and after quenching is large, 0.3. This
clearly emphasizes the importance of the cooling rate on the synthesis
of these materials. In a forthcoming paper, we correlate the oxygen
content in these materials to their superconducting properties.[17]

The resistivity of the rare-earth samples from room temperature to below
T_(c) is shown in Fig. 5. Note the linearity above T_(c) as observed
also in the La-Sr-Cu-O system.[6] There is a general tendency for the
room-temperature resistivity to decrease with the volume of the unit
cell. This trend, however, could be fortuitous, and simply a result of
the preparation procedure. The compounds with the largest resistivities,
Nd and Lu, are contaminated by a second phase; it is possible that all
the materials have some contamination, and that the degree of
contamination varies systematically across the series. The midpoints of
the resistive transitions lie between 92 and 95 K, except for those of
Yb and Lu which are at 87 and 89.5 K, respectively. The shapes of the
superconducting transitions are shown in more detail in Fig. 5. A
remarkable feature is that most of the transition widths, when
determined from 10

To further confirm bulk superconductivity in these rare-earth perovskite
phases, we measured the screening and exclusion of magnetic flux for
several members of the series. The data for NdBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − x) are shown
in Fig. 7 as an example. For each sample, the Meissner effect was found
to range between 30

The effect of oxygen nonstoichiometry on the physical properties of the
R compounds has been studied by resistivity and ac susceptibility
measurements. From ac measurements no signature of superconductivity was
observed for the vacuum-annealed R samples in contrast to a full signal
for the materials reannealed under oxygen. Resistively, this is shown
for ErBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − x) in Fig. 8, where the resistivity from room
temperature to below T_(c) is plot

Figure 5: Resistivity vs temperature from 300 K to below T_(c) for the
RBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − x) series. Note the linear temperature dependence above
T_(c). Current densities were approximately 0.5 A/cm.[2]

Figure 6: Resistance vs temperature, normalized to the value at 100 K,
is plotted from 100 K to below T_(c) for RBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − x). These
measurements were taken while decreasing the temperature at a rate of
approximately 5 K/min using current densities of 0.1 to 0.5 A/cm².

Figure 7: Magnetic susceptibility vs temperature for NdBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − x).
The upper curve is for cooling in a field of 10 G (Meissner); the lower
curve is for warming in 10 G after cooling in zero field (shielding).
The sample weight was 65 mg.

ted for the same sample (a) as grown, (b) vacuum annealed, (c)
reannealed in oxygen, and (d) annealed in high pressure (40 bars) of
oxygen. The striking feature of this graph is that the vacuum-annealed
sample is a semiconductor (i.e., the resistivity increases with
decreasing temperature). Note also that superconductivity can be fully
recovered by reannealing the sample at 720 degC under (c) oxygen.
Further annealing in oxygen at higher pressure increases T_(c) by 1 K,
but does not significantly affect the resistivity above T_(c). This
effect is considerably smaller than the increase of 30 K measured by
Politis [18] on samples retreated under pressure of oxygen.

The ability to substitute yttrium, which is trivalent, by other rare
earths strongly suggests that the R ions are trivalent in the compound.
A simple way to check the valence is to perform magnetic measurements.
Figure 9 shows the inverse of the magnetic susceptibility as a function
of the temperature (from above T_(c) to room temperature) for all the
rare-earth compounds except Sm and Eu, which are van Vleck ions. Note
that within this temperature range, all the compounds except Nd and Yb
can be fit to a Curie-Weiss law for susceptibility,
χ = Nμ²/3k_(B)(T − Θ_(p)). The effective magnetic moments (μ) and
paramagnetic Curie temperatures (Θ_(p)) resulting from this fit are
reported in Table 2. For comparison, the theoretical effective moments
for each free-trivalent ion are listed. Note the agreement between
experimental and theoretical values. For the Nd and Yb compounds a
deviation from the Curie-Weiss law is observed. A similar effect has
previously been observed on the 40-K superconductors doped with Nd (Ref.
[13]) and has been attributed to the splitting of the rare-earth ions by
the crystal field effect, which is generally larger for the lighter
rare-earth ions. In the case of Yb the small amount of second phase
detected by x-ray powder diffraction is likely responsible for the
nonlinearity of the 1/χ vs T plot.

Another interesting result is that the paramagnetic Curie temperatures
are negative (i.e., indicating that within this structure the magnetic
rare-earth ions interact antiferromagnetically) and range from − 35 K
for thulium to − 2 K for gadolinium. According to the Θ_(p) values, if
antiferromagnetic ordering should occur in these compounds it will be at
low temperatures. To measure χ down to low temperatures we destroyed
superconductivity by annealing the samples under vacuum. The inverse
susceptibility as a function of the temperature down to 1.6 K for
several members of the rare-earth series is shown in Fig. 10. Note that
a Curie-Weiss law is nearly perfectly obeyed from 10 to 300 K. The
effective magnetic moment and paramagnetic Curie temperature deduced
from this plot are similar to those already reported in Table 2. Figure
10 shows the variation of the magnetic susceptibility as a function of
temperature between 1.6 and 30 K. Except for

Figure 8: Effect of oxygen on the transport properties of
ErBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − x). Resistivity vs temperature is plotted from 300 to 30
K for the same sample; (a) as grown; (b) annealed in vacuum (10 −3 Torr,
420 °C, 12 h). (c) and (d) Reannealed in oxygen at 720 °C under 1 and 40
atm of oxygen, respectively. Note the dramatic increase in resistivity
for (6) plotted with two contracted scales of 10 −6 and 10 −8 × ρ.

Figure 9: Magnetic data collected at a field of 10 kG for the
RBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − x) series. The reciprocal susceptibility (χ⁻¹) is shown
for the as-prepared samples (solid curve) and vacuum annealed samples
(dashed curve) over the temperature range 100 −300 K and 4 −300 K,
respectively.

Ho and Gd, the susceptibility increases continuously with decreasing
temperatures. For the Ho compound the susceptibility levels off around T
= 1.6 K, suggesting the possibility of an antiferromagnetic ordering at
lower temperatures. An important feature of Fig. 10 is that for the Gd
compound, the susceptibility is going through a maximum near 2 K,
indicating an antiferromagnetic ordering. Resistivity measurements show
no reentrant behavior associated with this ordering. Fisk _et al._19
have reported a large anomaly in the heat-capacity measurements at 2.24
K for the gadolinium compound.

Figure 11 shows the susceptibility of the Gd vacuum annealed compound
from 1.6 to 300 K. The low-temperature part of the curve (inset) has
been enlarged to emphasize the antiferromagnetic ordering occurring at
2.04 K. To ensure that the removal of oxygen from the starting material
has no effect on antiferromagnetism we performed susceptibility
measurements on the superconducting phase between 1.6 and 30 K at a
field of 10 kG. The inset of Fig. 11 shows that the maximum
susceptibility corresponding to an antiferromagnetic ordering (T_(N) =
2.3 K) is still present, suggesting the coexistence of superconductivity
and antiferromagnetism.

At first sight it seems surprising to see a paramagnetic susceptibility
in a superconductor. But the applied field (10 kG) here is much larger
than _H__e_1(=400 G), so that much of the material is threaded by flux.
Thus, the measured _kh_ is a combination of the paramagnetism of the
normal part and the diamagnetism of the superconducting part of the
sample. Because of the large moment of the Gd ions (8_m__B_) the
paramagnetic part dominates, but the diamagnetic part lowers the
susceptibility from that in the vacuum-annealed sample, as observed
experimentally (Fig. 11, inset).

The temperature-dependent susceptibility from 4 to 300 K for the vacuum
annealed Eu, Sm, and Y compounds is shown in Fig. 12. Eu3+ (_J_ = 0) is
a van Vleck ion, so one would expect the susceptibility to remain
constant up to 100 K and then decrease at higher temperatures, as
observed in the rare-earth-doped La-Sr-Cu-O system.13 The data do not
confirm our expectations since the susceptibility strongly increases
below 100 K instead of leveling off. A common reason to account for such
effect is the presence of magnetic impurities. For example, Eu could act
as a magnetic impurity on the Ba sites. Europium is one of the few rare
earths which can exist under two oxidation states (2+ and 3+). Europium
2+ (_J_ = + Ba2+. These results may suggest that compounds of general
formula EuBa2-_y_Eu_Cu_O7-_x_ exist.

## Discussion

Magnetic ions at first sight are expected to decrease T_(c), because the
exchange interactions between the rare-earth ion and the conduction
electron destroys the Cooper pairs responsible for superconductivity.
However, the resistivity in Fig. 6 shows that the superconducting
critical temperature of the YBa2Cu3O7-_x_ phase does not significantly
change when Y is replaced by trivalent rare-earth ions. This result
indicates that the magnetic ions do not interact with the conduction
electrons. The structure of these compounds consists of three perovskite
layers, so that the yttrium atoms are separated by CuO2, BaO, CuO2, BaO,
and CuO2 planes. To reach the oxygen stoichiometry of seven, an oxygen
atom is removed from the middle CuO2 layer. Within this layer the
vacancies are ordered so that CuO chains running parallel to the b
direction are formed. Band-structure calculations have been performed
[20] on these materials and the main result is that the superconducting
properties of these materials are governed by the Cu-_3d_ and O-_2p_
electrons. These calculations, however, do not indicate whether the
superconducting electrons are in the copper plane or copper chains, or
both. The insensitivity of T_(c) to the presence of magnetic rare-earth
ions suggests that the superconducting electrons are faraway from the
magnetic ions, which is an argument that the copper-oxygen chains are
responsible for superconductivity on these materials.

It is now of interest to compare the effect or rare-earth doping on both
the 40- and 90-K superconductors. On the former ones we correlate a
decrease of T_(c) by 20 K through the rare-earth series with a volume
decrease due to the lanthanide contraction. For the 90-K compounds we
also observed a volume decrease in going from the Nd to Yb compounds,
but T_(c) remains nearly constant (within 3 K). The indifference of the
superconducting properties of the 90-K perovskites with respect to
volume contraction has also been observed by Hor _et al._[21] who did
not observe significant changes in T_(c) under applied pressure.

For a long time perovskite compounds have been intensively studied for
their potential interest as oxygen sensors based on their ability to
reversibly intercalate oxygen atoms. Thus, the great structural
flexibility of the _R_Ba2Cu3O7-_x_ perovskites to reversibly accommodate
oxygen atoms is not surprising. In contrast, the superconducting to
semiconducting transition induced by removal of oxygen in these
materials is more intriguing. Changes in oxygen content imply changes in
the oxidation states of copper atoms. The average valence of copper
increases or decreases with the uptake or removal of oxygen atoms,
respectively. With YBa2Cu3O7-_x_, for example, we found that the oxygen
content can change from 6.7 to 6.2 resulting in a change in the average
valence of copper from 2.2 to 1.8. This valence implies the formation of
Cu1+. The shrinking of the b lattice parameter mentioned previously
suggests that the oxygen atoms between the copper atoms are removed, so
that copper which was fourfold coordinated becomes twofold coordinated
with an oxygen above and below. In Cu2O the monovalent copper ions are
also bonded to two oxygen atoms. Thus it may be that the removal of
oxygen atoms from the Cu-O chains changes the oxidation state of copper
to 1+. Recent neutron experiments have shown that vacuum annealing
removes oxygen from the center Cu-O planes, but does not disturb the
upper or lower Cu-O planes.[22] Since we have shown that vacuum
annealing destroys superconductivity, we conclude that the presence of
oxygen in the center Cu-O plane is required for superconductivity and
put forth the argument that the superconducting transport occurs in the
oxygen chains in the center Cu-O plane. X-ray photo-emission
spectroscopy measurements remain to be done in both annealed and
vacuum-annealed samples to determine the predicted change in the valence
of copper.

We turn now to the magnetism in these rare-earth perovskites. The data
have shown that antiferromagnetism occurs only for the Gd compound, at
least down to 1.6 K. If the rare-earth magnetic ions interacted via the
Ruderman-Kittel-Kasuya-Yosida (RKKY) mechanism, which involves
conduction electrons, one would expect from the Abrikosov and Gorkov
theory[23] that the depression in T_(c) scales with the de Gennes factor
G = (g_(j) − 1)²J(J + 1), which is maximum for Gd. In the same way,
magnetic transitions should also scale with G. The data show that the
magnetic ordering temperature is maximum for Gd, but no depression in
T_(c) was observed for this compound. We thus conclude that the RKKY
interactions are not predominant in this system. Another type of
magnetic interaction that we might consider in a system which orders at
such a low temperature is dipole-dipole interactions. For instance Redi
and Anderson[24] have shown that antiferromagnetism can result from such
an interaction. The magnetic dipole-dipole interaction and the magnetic
ordering temperature should depend on the total angular momentum J,
which is largest for Tm, not Gd. But the orbital part L may constrain
the moment to lie in an unfavorable direction for the magnetic ordering
to occur. Thus, the magnetic transition may be

Figure 12: The magnetic susceptibility as a function of the temperature
is shown for the Eu, Sm, and Y compounds. Dashed curves refer to the
as-grown samples and solid curves to the vacuum-annealed samples.

highest for Gd because it has L = 0 (isotropic), so that it is
unaffected by the crystal anisotropy.

In summary we have shown that the replacement of yttrium by rare-earth
magnetic ions in YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − x) does not significantly affect the
superconducting properties of these materials. The large amount of
magnetic ions in this structure (8

###### Acknowledgements.

We wish to thank W. L. Feldman for technical assistance and P. W.
Anderson, G. Baskaran, B. Bagley, W. Bonner, J. Greedan, Y. Le Page, J.
Rowell, and J. Wernick for helpful discussions.

## References

* [1] Permanent address: Division of Chemistry, National Research
Council of Canada, Ottawa, Canada K1AOR9. * [2] J. G. Bednorz and K. A.
Muller, Z. Phys. B **64**, 189 (1986). * [3] J. G. Bednorz, M. Takashige
and K. A. Muller, Europhys. Lett. **3**, 379 (1987). * [4] S. Uchida, H.
Takagi, K. Kitazawa, and S. Tanaka, Jpn. J. Appl. Phys. Lett. **26**, 21
(1987). * [5] K. Kishio, K. Kitazawa, S. Kanbe, I. Yasuda, N. Sugii, H.
Takagi, S. Uchida, K. Fueki, and S. Tanaka, Chem. Lett. (to be
published). * [6] R. J. Cava, R. B. van Dover, B. Batlogg, and E. A.
Rietman, Phys. Rev. Lett. **58**, 408 (1987). * [7] M. Tarascon, L. H.
Greene, W. R. McKinnon, G. W. Hull, and T. H. Geballe, Science **235**,
1373 (1987). * [8] M. K. Wu, J. R. Ashburn, C. J. Torng, P. H. Hor, R.
L. Meng, L. Gao, Z. J. Huang, Y. Q. Wang, and C. W. Chu, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **58**, 908 (1987). * [9] J. M. Tarascon, L. H. Greene, W. R.
McKinnon and G. W. Hull, Phys. Rev. B **35**, 7115 (1987). * [10] Y. Le
Page, W. R. McKinnon, J. M. Tarascon, L. H. Greene, G. W. Hull, and D.
M. Hwang, Phys. Rev. B **35**, 7245 (1987). * [11] R. J. Cava, B.
Batlogg, R. B. van Dover, D. W. Murphy, S. Sunshine, T. Siegrist, J. P.
Remeika, E. A. Rietman, S. Zahurak, and G. Espinosa, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**58**, 1676 (1987); T. Siegrist, S. Sunshine, D. W. Murphy, R. J. Cava,
and S. M. Zahurak, Phys. Rev. B **35**, 7137 (1987). * [12] P. M. Grant,
R. B. Beyers, E. M. Engler, G. Lim, S. S. P. Parkin, M. L. Ramirez, V.
Y. Lee, A. Nazzal, J. E. Vazquez, and R. J. Savoy, Phys. Rev. B **35**,
7242 (1987). * [13] J. E. Greedan, A. O’Reilly, and C. V. Stager, Phys.
Rev. B **35**, 8770 (1987). * [14] J. M. Tarascon, L. H. Greene, W. R.
McKinnon, and G. W. Hull, Solid State Commun. **63**, 499 (1987). * [15]
Z. Fisk, J. D. Thompson, E. Zirngiebel, J. L. Smith, and S. W. Cheong,
Solid State Commun. (to be published). * [16] H. Takagi, S. Uchida, H.
Sato, H. Ishii, K. Kishio, K. Kitazawa, K. Fueki, and S. Tanaka, Jpn. J.
Appl. Phys. (to be published). * [17] D. W. Murphy, S. Sunshine, R. B.
van Dover, R. J. Cava, B. Batlogg, S. M. Zahurak, and L. F. Schneemeyer,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **58**, 1888 (1987). * [18] W. R. McKinnon, J. M.
Tarascon, L. H. Greene, and G. W. Hull (unpublished). * [19] C. Politis,
postdeadline paper presented at the Meeting of the American Physical
Society, New York, March 1987 (unpublished). * [20] Z. Fisk, J. O.
Willis, J. D. Thompson, S. W. Cheong, J. L. Smith, and E. Zirngiebel
(unpublished). * [21] L. F. Mattheis and D. R. Hamann (unpublished). *
[22] P. H. Hor, L. Gao, R. L. Meng, Z. J. Huang, Y. Q. Wang, K. Forster,
J. Vassiliou, C. W. Chu, M. K. Wu, J. R. Ashburn, and C. J. Torng, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **58**, 911 (1987). * [23] J. E. Greedan, A. O’Reilly and C.
V. Stager (unpublished). * [24] A. A. Abrikosov and L. P. Gorkov, Zh.
Eksp. Teor. Fiz. **39**, 1781 (1960) [Sov. Phys. JETP **12**, 1243
(1961). * [25] M. Redi and P. W. Anderson, Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci. U.S.A.
**78**, 27 (1981).
