# Superconducting phase sequence in R_(x)C₆₀ fullerides (R = Sm and Yb)

Misaho Akada,¹ Toshinari Hirai,² Junji Takeuchi,² Takao Yamamoto,¹
Ryotaro Kumashiro,¹ Katsumi Tanigaki¹

¹Department of Physics, Graduate School of Science, Tohoku University
and CREST-JST, 6-3 Aoba Aramaki Aoba-ku, Sendai, Miyagi 980-8578, Japan

²Department of Materials Science, Graduate School of Science, Osaka City
University and CREST-JST, 3-3-138 Sugimoto, Sumiyoshi, Osaka 558-8585,
Japan

###### Abstract

The true superconducting phase in rare-earth C₆₀ fullerides R_(x)C₆₀ (R
= Yb and Sm) is not R_(2.75)C₆₀ previously reported. Moreover, no
superconductivity is observed in Sm-C₆₀ fullerides. The phase sequence
between Yb-C₆₀ fullerides and Sm-C₆₀ ones as a function of the
intercalant concentration of x is shown to be greatly different,
although Yb and Sm are the same family of rare-earth elements with the
divalent valence state. This can explain the loss of superconductivity
in Sm_(x)C₆₀ and suggests the true superconducting phase. The whole
picture of rare-earth C₆₀ fullerides is described.

2005 1 Nov 2005; published 17 March 2006 10.1103/PhysRevB.73.094509

## I Introduction

The doped C₆₀’s with a half-filling band, identical to the trivalent
state of C₆₀, are metallic and superconducting, and no superconductivity
is observed in the other filling in the t_(1u) associated C₆₀
fullerides.[1, 2, 3] Such features have been exemplified for alkali
metal doped C₆₀ fullerides.[4] In contrast, the t_(1g) band-associated
C₆₀ fullerides show a different situation. Alkaline-earth metal (Ae = Sr
and Ba) doped C₆₀ fullerides show superconductivity when they are in the
body-centered orthorhombic phase (bco) with the stoichiometry of
Ae₄C₆₀.[5, 6, 7, 8] The change in properties upon the odd-even
stoichiometries observed in the t_(1u) associated fullerides (see a
simplified situation in the t_(1u) C₆₀ fullerides shown in Fig. 1) is no
longer observed in these t_(1g) associated ones.[9]

The rear-earth metal doped C₆₀ fullerides were also reported to show
superconductivity with a very different crystal phase of R_(2.75)C₆₀’s
(R = Yb and Sm) with superlattice structure.[10, 11] This had been
believed to be the true superconducting phase for a long time after the
publications. This assignment, however, seems to be unreasonable since
the divalent state of R intercalants gives rise to a band filling in the
vicinity of the t_(1u) upper band edge as seen in Fig. 1 and this is a
very different situation encountered for the other t_(1g) C₆₀ fullerides
made from Sr and Ba (Refs. [5, 6, 7, 8] and [12]) and their mixtures
with K and Rb.[9] In view of the fundamental knowledge so far achieved
from the electronic states of alkali and alkaline-earth metal doped
C₆₀’s as described above, such a situation cannot be expected and had to
be clarified. If this was indeed the true case, the theories so far
proposed had to be modified. In the late 1990s, we have clearly shown
that R_(2.75)C₆₀ fullerides (R = Yb and Sm) are not the true
superconducting phases, even though the experimental fact that the
superconductivity can be observed in Yb-C₆₀ fullerides[10] is correct.
Moreover, we have pointed out that any superconductivity cannot be
observed in the case of Sm-C₆₀ fullerides,[13] even though the
superconductivity was reported in the literature.[11]

At that time, however, the real superconducting phase in the Yb-C₆₀
fullerides as well as the reason why the superconductivity cannot be
observed in the Sm-C₆₀ ones has not fully been understood.[13, 14] This
paper elucidates that the phase sequence of C₆₀ fullerides is very much
different between Yb and Sm fullerides, although both of the elements
are the same family of divalent rare-earth metals. This will give the
true whole scenario of what occurs in the rare-earth C₆₀ fullerides.

## II Experiment

R_(2.75)C₆₀ (R = Yb and Sm) fullerides were prepared from the direct
reactions of C₆₀ and Yb or Sm metals with different stoichiometries. C₆₀
commercially available from the TERM company was mixed with rare-earth
metals and introduced to a tantalum cell encapsulated by a quartz tube.
The mixed samples were pelletized at room temperature and then heated at
873 K for about 10 h. The preheated samples were ground after being
taken out of the glass tubes in a glove box and again heated at 923 K
for 24−72 h. The resulting fullerides were subjected to the magnetic
measurements using a Quantum Design MPMS7 apparatus for checking
superconductivity and their structure was studied by x-ray diffraction
measurements carried out by high-energy synchrotron radiation at BLO2B2
of SPring-8.

Figure 1: (Color online) The variation of N_(E_(F)) as a function of
band filling in the t_(1u) associated C₆₀ fullerides. The picture
depicted shown in the left is a simplified band picture.

## III Results and Discussion

### Nonsuperconductivity in R_(2.75)C₆₀ (R=Yb and Sm)

The C₆₀ fulleride with the nominal stoichiometry Yb_(2.75)C₆₀, being
reported to be superconducting, was successfully prepared from the
pelletized C₆₀ mixed with Yb by heating treatments. Figure 2 (upper)
shows the Rietveld analysis using the structural parameters reported
previously.[10] All the observed peaks including low angle peaks
associated with the superlattice structure were well indexed. The
superlattice structure can be created by the ordered deficiency of Yb,
caused by the strain due to the small ionic radius of the divalent Yb
and this is in good agreement with the literature.[10] The refinement
parameters are _a_=2.7772, _b_=2.7716, and _c_=2.7715 in the space group
of _Pcab_ (No. 61, option2) with _Rp_=3.00 and _RW_p =4.23. Therefore it
is evident that the Yb_(2.75)C₆₀ phase made in the present study is the
same crystal phase that has previously been reported.

We have tried to prepare Yb-C₆₀ fullerides by changing the nominal
stoichiometries ranging from 1 to 6 per C₆₀. When the concentration of
Yb is less than 2.75, no other stable crystal phases were detected, and
a phase separation between pristine C₆₀ and Yb_(2.75)C₆₀ was observed.
When the Yb amount was increased larger than three, some other phases
formed and the peak intensities indexed to be those of Yb_(2.75)C₆₀ were
reduced.

When Sm was used as an intercalant, the same crystal phase reported to
show superconductivity was also able to be made together with a small
amount of A15 Sm₃C₆₀. The Rietveld analysis is shown in Fig. 2 (lower).
It should be noted that the crystal phase was greatly improved when it
is compared to that reported previously.[11] The two-phase Rietveld
fitting using 95

For confirmation of the superconductivity in Yb_(2.75)C₆₀, magnetic
susceptibility measurements for detecting the su

Figure 4: (Color) The phases appearing in Yb₃C₆₀ and Sm₃C₆₀ as a
function of x. Both systems show different phase sequences as described
in the text. The saturation phase in Yb₃C₆₀ is in primitive cubic, while
the one in Sm₃C₆₀ is bcc.

Figure 3: (Color online) Magnetic moments measured by SQUID under a low
magnetic field of 10 Oe for R_(x)C₆₀ (_R_=Yb and Sm).

Figure 2: (Color) X-ray diffraction patterns of Yb_(2.75)C₆₀ and
Sm_(2.75)C₆₀ collected with synchrotron radiation. Rietveld fittings are
included in the figure.

perconducting diamagnetic signals have been carried out using a
superconducting quantum interference device (SQUID) under a low-magnetic
field of 10 Oe. The measurements showed that any important
superconductivity does not appear, except for only a trace amount of
superconducting fraction as shown in Fig. 3. Considering the pure
crystal phase of Yb_(2.75)C₆₀ made in the present experiments, the
superconducting fraction was surprisingly only less than 1

The existence of superconductivity was also checked for Sm_(2.75)C₆₀,
but surprisingly no symptom of superconductivity was detected.
Considering its high crystal quality described earlier, it is evident
that the Sm_(2.75)C₆₀ fulleride is not superconducting.

In order to have more detailed confirmation, we have measured
superconducting magnetic susceptibilities both for Yb_(x)C₆₀ and
Sm_(x)C₆₀ fullerides by changing the component ratios of x ranging from
2.75 to 6 in the feed. When x=4 is used in Yb_(x)C₆₀, the
superconducting diamagnetic susceptibility was greatly increased. It is
also important that the magnetic susceptibility is in turn decreased,
when the stoichiometry of x=6 in the feed was used. These situations can
be clearly seen in Fig. 3. Since, as explained earlier, it is evident
that some other crystal phases appear from the x-ray diffraction studies
when x is over three, the superconductivity should be ascribed to the
crystal phase other than the superlattice Yb_(2.75)C₆₀ phase previously
reported. All the data presented here clearly display that Yb_(2.75)C₆₀,
which has so far been believed to be the real superconducting phase, is
not the true superconducting phase, but that another phase appearing in
Yb_(x)C₆₀ with x larger than three is superconducting. This will be
discussed later.

In the case of C₆₀ fullerides with Sm intercalants, no superconductivity
was detected for all the component ratios of x as seen in Fig. 3. It
should be important to note that we did not see any symptom of
superconductivity among more than 50 samples in our experiments. This
situation is completely different from the previous reports.[15, 16, 17]
In any event the experiments described in the present paper clearly show
that the superconductivity observed in R_(x)C₆₀’s (R=Yb and Sm) does not
stem from the R_(2.75)C₆₀ superlattice phase. Furthermore, the physical
properties are surprisingly very much differentiated between Yb_(x)C₆₀
and Sm_(x)C₆₀.

### Structural sequence in Yb_(x)C₆₀ and Sm_(x)C₆₀

For the purpose of understanding the differences in physical properties
between Yb-C₆₀ and Sm-C₆₀ fullerides, the structural sequence has been
studied. As shown in Fig. 4, both systems give rise to the R_(2.75)C₆₀
phase with superlattice structure first. It is important that the famous
superconducting crystal phase of fcc A₃C₆₀ fullerides (A= K and Rb) does
not take place in both systems.[2, 19, 20] They show a different
structural evolution from each other as a function of intercalant
concentration.

The Yb-C₆₀ system shows a structural sequence in the primitive cubic
lattice. After passing through the first superlattice Yb_(2.75)C₆₀
phase, the fullerides approach to Yb₆C₆₀ with keeping the primitive
cubic cell. The important phases, such as fcc A₃C₆₀ (A= K and Rb) and
A15 A₅C₆₀ (A= Sr and Ba), are not created. Similar situations have been
so far experienced for Na_(x)C₆₀,[21] Ca₃C₆₀,[22] and Li_(x)C₅₀.[23] On
the other hand, the structural sequence in Sm_(x)C₆₀ proceeds from
Sm_(2.75)C₆₀ through A15 Sm₃C₆₀ (body-centered cubic (bcc) cell when the
C₆₀ orientation is ignored) to bcc Sm₆C₆₀. This situation is reminiscent
to that experienced for Ba_(x)C₆₀ (in the case of Sr, the fcc Sr₃C₆₀
coexists with the A15 phase).[5, 6, 8] However, body-centered
orthorhombic (bco) type Sm₄C₆₀ does not form and this is very different
from that in the Ba and Sr C₆₀ fulleride systems.[12]

The structural sequence thus determined can be schematically viewed in
Fig. 5. In the structural sequence in Yb_(x)C₆₀, the Yb_(x)C₆₀ with
x=(3 + α)∼ 5 can form. This phase can possibly show superconductivity as
a t_(1g)-derived band associated superconductor. Exactly the same
situation can be reported for Ca₂C₆₀.[22] However, this superconducting
phase does not take place in the bcc structural sequence of Sm_(x)C₆₀.
Moreover, even in the bcc sequence, the well-known superconducting bco
R₄C₆₀ phase is not made. This conclusion can reasonably explain why we
do not see any superconductivity in the Sm_(x)C₆₀ fulleride system.

The reason why we do not have the superconducting bco Ae₄C₆₀ phase in
the bcc structural sequence of Sm_(x)C₆₀ may well be understood when the
ionic radii (r⁺) are taken into account as displayed in Fig. 6. The r⁺
of Sm²⁺ is smaller than that of Sr²⁺. Therefore it seems that the bco
Sm₄C₆₀ will be less stable. Actually, no bco phase is reported in the
case of the Eu-C₆₀ fulleride.[24, 25, 26] The ionic radius of Yb²⁺ is
much smaller than that of Sm²⁺ and even close to that of Ca²⁺. It seems
very reasonable that the structural sequence becomes the same between
Yb_(x)C₆₀ and Ca_(x)C₆₀. As a consequence, although Yb and Sm are the
same group of divalent rare-earth elements, the structural sequence
between Yb_(x)C₆₀ and Sm_(x)C₆₀ becomes dissimilar. In turn, this can
explain why very different electronic properties can be observed between
Yb and Sm fullerides. This understanding takes a different position from
that of the other group,[14] although the experimental fact that the
Sm_(2.75)C₆₀ does not show any superconductivity becomes a consensus
now.

Figure 5: (Color online) The phase sequence in Yb- and Sm-C₆₀ fullerides
as a function of dopant concentration.

### The true superconducting phase in Yb_(x)C₆₀

Along with the scenario described earlier, the structural sequence in
Yb_(x)C₆₀ is modeled in Fig. 7. Due to the stresses and the strains in
the lattice caused by the small r⁺ of the divalent Yb²⁺, the fcc Yb₃C₆₀
is no longer stable and one Yb atom from eight in the tetrahedral
interstitial sites will be kicked out from the fcc Bravais lattice
leaving with the composition of Yb₁₁(C₆₀)₄. Therefore more stable
Yb_(2.75)C₆₀ [this stoichiometry comes from Yb₁₁(C₆₀)₄/4] can form with
a superlattice structure having the ordered Yb vacancies as can be
clarified by x-ray diffraction analyses. With deviation of intercalants
in both tetrahedral and octahedral interstitial sites, more intercalants
can interstitially be accommodated in the cell to form Yb_(x)C₆₀
(x = 3 + α ∼ 5), until they reach the saturation phases. This structural
sequence can end up with full accommodation of the Yb₆C₆₀ stoichiometry.
The superconductivity can occur in Yb_(x)C₆₀ (x = 3 + α ∼ 5) as a
t_(1g)-derived band associated superconductor. However, it cannot still
be completely ruled out that the superconductivity may relate to the
graphite intercalations recently gathering much attractions.[18]

So far the primitive cubic cell having the stoichiometry of M_(x)C₆₀
(3 < x ≤ 6) has been found for Na_(x)C₆₀, Li_(x)CsC₆₀, and Ca_(x)C₆₀.
The structure of the former two fullerides is depicted in Fig. 8. Among
these three fullerides, superconductivity has been recognized for the
latter two compounds.[22, 23] The missing of superconductivity in
Na_(x)C₆₀ may be understood considering the less electron transfer from
Na to C₆₀ as well as the disordered position of Na in the interstitial
sites.

Although the superconducting fraction cannot be zero even in the case of
the nominal Yb_(2.75)C₆₀ due to the contamination of the true
superconducting phase as seen in Fig. 9, we have made a comparison
between nonsuperconducting Yb_(2.75)C₆₀ and the superconducting
Yb_(3 + α)C₆₀ made from the nominal Yb_(3.5)C₆₀, the latter of which
shows the highest superconducting fraction in our experiments. Figure 10
shows the magnetic susceptibility $\chi_{\rm Pauli}$ observed under high
magnetic fields for these two samples. The $\chi_{\rm Pauli}$ data were
obtained from the substraction between 4 and 6 T of magnetic fields for
excluding the small ferroimpurities generally made in the C₆₀
fullerides. Using the equation of
$\chi_{\rm Pauli}\!\!=\!2\mu_{B}N_{E_{F}}$ where μ_(B) denotes the Bohr
magneton, the density of states at the fermi level N_(E_(F)) was
evaluated to be 9 and 18-30 states eV⁻¹ (C₆₀-mole)⁻¹ for Yb_(2.75)C₆₀
and Yb_(3 + α)C₆₀, respectively. Apparently N_(E_(F)) of Yb_(3 + α)C₆₀
is much larger than that of Yb_(2.75)C₆₀. The result is not in
disagreement with the occurrence of superconductivity in Yb_(3 + α)C₆₀,
but not in Yb_(2.75)C₆₀.

### The whole picture of the phase sequence in C₆₀ fullerides

The whole picture of the phase sequence in C₆₀ fullerides is shown in
Fig. 11. As is well known, fcc

Figure 8: (Color online) The structure of the M_(x)C₆₀ phase with
x  =  3 − 6 in the primitive cubic cell. The dopants surrounding the
octahedral one occupy their positions in a random fashion keeping with
the primitive cubic symmetry. The saturation phase is generally M₆C₆₀.
In the case of Na, x ranging to 11 is reported (Ref. [27]).

Figure 6: (Color online) The relationship between the phases and the
ionic radii of the dopants in Ae and RC₆₀ fullerides. The ionic radii
can well explain the crystal phases made in these systems.

Figure 7: (Color) The phase sequence of Yb_(x)C₆₀ with x. The primitive
cubic cell holds until the saturation phase comes up with increasing x.
The superconductivity is considered to occur in Yb_(3 + α)C₆₀.

C₆₀→ fcc A₃C₆₀→ bct A₄C₆₀→ bcc A₆C₆₀ occur in the case of alkali metal
(A = K and Rb). When alkaline-earth metals (Ae=Sr and Ba) are used, the
phase sequence of fcc C₆₀→A15 A₅C₆₀→ bcc Ae₄C₆₀→ bcc Ae₆C₆₀ takes place.
In the case of rare-earth elements (_R_ = Yb, Sm, and Eu), as is
described in the present paper, fcc C₆₀→ Yb_(2.75)C₆₀→ primitive cubic
Yb${}_{3+\alpha\sim$C${}_{60}}$ and fcc C₆₀→ (Sm,Eu)_(2.75)C₆₀→ A15
(Sm,Eu)₃C₆₀ (trace amount) → bcc (Sm,Eu)₆C₆₀ occur. For Na as an
intercalant, fcc C₆₀→ fcc Na₂C₆₀→ [fccNa₃C₆₀;missing]→ primitive cubic
Na₆C₆₀→ primitive cubic Na₁₁C₆₀. In the case of La, La carbides showing
superconductivity with T = 12 and 6 K form very fast without making C₆₀
fullerides.[28] The superconducting phases are fcc A₃C₆₀, bco Ae₄C₆₀,
primitive cubic R_(3 + α)C₆₀ in the case of Ca and Yb, although still
the possible contribution of graphite intercalations cannot completely
be ruled out.[18] No superconducting phases are observed in the case of
Na, Eu, and Sm. It is still an open question of whether fcc/bco Cs₃C₆₀
is superconducting or not.[29]

## IV IV. Conclusion

Both Yb_(2.75)C₆₀ and Sm_(2.75)C₆₀ were reexamined and unambiguously
confirmed not to be superconducting. The true superconducting phase of
Yb-C₆₀ fullerides is most likely in the t_(1s)-derived band.
Furthermore, no superconductivity was observed in the case of Sm_(x)C₆₀.
These could be understood by the different phase sequences between
Yb-C₆₀ and Sm-C₆₀ fullerides. In any case, we have no exceptions in the
experimental picture of t_(1u)-associated fulleride superconductors now.
The most recent theories,[30; 31; 32; 33; 34] taking into account the
cooperative contributions of on-site Coulomb electron-electron repulsion
U and electron-phonon interaction V in the framework of the
phonon-mediated superconductivity under the dynamic Jahn-Teller
distortion of the triply degenerate t_(1u) orbitals of C₆₀, can explain
the superconductivity occurring in the t_(1u)-associated fullerides. The
experimental facts do not have to require any modifications to these
theories as described in the present paper.

## Acknowledgments

We are grateful to the staff members at SPring8 (beamline BL02B2). The
synchrotron radiation experiments were performed by the approval of the
Japan Synchrotron Radiation Research Institute (JASRI) as Nanotechnology
Support Project. This work was supported by Creation of Nanodevices and
Systems Based on New Physical Phenomena and Functional Principles of
CREST of JST. The present work is also partially supported by the Tohoku
University 21 century COE program "Particle-Matter Hierarchy" of MEXT
Japan. This work was performed by a Grant-in-Aid from the Ministry of
Education, Culture, Sports, Science, and Technology of Japan, Nos.
13304031 and 17038001.

## References

* [1] R. C. Haddon, A. F. Hebard, M. J. Rosseinsky _et al._, Nature
(London) **350**, 320 (1991). * [2] A. F. Hebard, M. J. Rosseinsky, R.
C. Haddon, D. W. Murphy, S. H. Glarum, T. T. M. Palstra, A. P. Ramirez,
and A. R. Kortan, Nature (London) **350**, 600 (1991). * [3] K.
Tanigaki, I. Hirosawa, T. W. Ebbesen, J. Mizuki, Y. Shimakawa, Y. Kubo,
J. S. Tsai, and S. Kuroshima, Nature (London) **356**, 419 (1992). * [4]
K. Tanigaki and K. Prassides, J. Mater. Chem. **5**, 1515 (1995). * [5]
A. R. Kortan, N. Kopylov, S. Glarum, E. M. Gyorogy, A. P. Ramirez, R. M.
Fleming, O. Zhou, F. A. Thiel, P. L. Trevor, and R. C. Haddon, Nature
(London) **360**, 566 (1992). * [6] M. Baenitz, M. Heinze, K. Luders, H.
Werner, R. Schlogl, M. Weiden, G. Sparn, and F. Steglich, Solid State
Commun. **96**, 539 (1995). * [7] B. Gogia, K. Kordatos, H. Suematsu, K.
Tanigaki, and K. Prassides, Phys. Rev. B **58**, 1077 (1998). * [8] C.
M. Brown, S. Taga, B. Gogia, K. Kordatos, S. Margadonna, K. Prassides,
Y. Iwasa, K. Tanigaki, A. N. Fitch, and P. Pattison, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**83**, 2258 (1999).

Figure 11: (Color) The whole picture of the phase sequences made in C₆₀
fullerides.

Figure 10: (Color online) The Pauli magnetic susceptibilities of
nonsuperconducting Yb_(2.25)C₆₀ (solid circles) and superconducting
Yb₃,C₆₀ (solid squares).

* [9] Y. Iwasa, H. Hayashi, T. Furudate, and T. Mitani, Phys. Rev. B
**54**, 14960 (1996). * [10] E. Ozdas, A. R. Kortan, N. Kopylov, A. P.
Ramirez, T. Siegrist, K. M. Rabe, H. E. Bair, S. Schuppler, and P. H.
Citrin, Nature (London) **375**, 126 (1995). * [11] X. H. Chen and G.
Roth, Phys. Rev. B **52**, 15534 (1995). * [12] A. R. Kortan, N.
Kopylov, E. Ozdas, S. Glarum, A. P. Ramirez, R. M. Fleming, and R. C.
Haddon, Chem. Phys. Lett. **223**, 501 (1994). * [13] J. Takeuchi, K.
Tanigaki, and B. Gogia, in Nanonetwork materials: Fullerenes, Nanotubes
and Related Systems, edited by S. Saito _et al._, AIP Conf. Proc. No.
590 (AIP, Melville, NY, 2001), pp. 361-364. * [14] J. Arvanitidis, K.
Papagelis, S. Margadonna, K. Prassides, and A. N. Fitch, Nature (London)
**425**, 599 (2003). * [15] X. H. Chen, S. Y. Li, G. G. Qian, K. Q.
Ruan, and L. Z. Cao, Phys. Rev. B **57**, 10770 (1998). * [16] X. H.
Chen, Z. S. Liu, S. Y. Li, D. H. Chi, and Y. Iwasa, Phys. Rev. B **60**,
6183 (1999). * [17] Z. Sun, X. H. Chen, T. Takenobu, and Y. Iwasa, J.
Phys.: Condens. Matter **12**, 8919 (2000). * [18] T. Weller, M.
Ellerby, S. S. Saxena, R. Smith, and N. Skipper, Nat. Phys. **1**, 39
(2005). * [19] Peter W. Stephens _et al._, Nature (London) **350**, 632
(1991). * [20] M. J. Rosseinsky, A. P. Ramirez, S. H. Glarum, D. W.
Murphy, R. C. Haddon, A. F. Hebard, T. T. M. Palstra, A. R. Kortan, S.
M. Zahurak, and A. V. Makhija, Phys. Rev. Lett. **66**, 2830 (1991). *
[21] M. J. Rosseinsky, D. M. Murphy, R. M. Fleming, R. Tycko, A. P.
Ramirez, T. Siegrist, G. Dabbagh, and S. E. Barrett, Nature (London)
**356**, 416 (1992). * [22] A. R. Kortan, N. Kopylov, S. Glarum, E. M.
Gyorogy, A. P. Ramirez, R. M. Fleming, F. A. Thiel, P. L. Trevor, and R.
C. Haddon, Nature (London) **355**, 529 (1992). * [23] M. Kosaka, K.
Tanigaki, K. Prassides, S. Margadonna, A. Lappas, C. M. Brown, and A. N.
Fitch, Phys. Rev. B **59**, R6628 (1999). * [24] H. Yoshikawa, S.
Kuroshima, I. Hirosawa, K. Tanigaki, and J. Mizuki, Chem. Phys. Lett.
**239**, 103 (1995). * [25] Y. Ksari-Habiles, D. Claves, G. Chouteau,
Ph. Touzain, C. Jeandey, J. L. Oddou, and A. Stepanov, J. Phys. Chem.
Solids **58**, 1771 (1997). * [26] D. Claves, Y. Ksari-Habiles, G.
Chouteau, and Ph. Touzain, Solid State Commun. **106**, 431 (1998). *
[27] T. Yildirim, O. Zhou, J. E. Fishcher, N. Bykovetz, R. A. Strongin,
M. A. Cichy, A. B. Smith III, C. L. Lin, and R. Jelinek, Nature (London)
**360**, 568 (1992). * [28] M. Akada, T. Hirai, J. Takeuchi, N.
Hiroshiba, R. Kumashiro, T. Yamamoto, and K. Tanigaki, Phys. Rev. B
**72**, 132505 (2005). * [29] S. Fujiki, Y. Kubozono, M. Kobayashi, T.
Kambe, Y. Rikishi, S. Kashino, K. Ishii, H. Suematsu, and A. Fujiwara,
Phys. Rev. B **65**, 235425 (2002). * [30] O. Gunnarsson, Rev. Mod.
Phys. **69**, 5754 (1997). * [31] S. Suzuki, S. Okada, and K. Nakao, J.
Phys. Soc. Jpn. **69**, 2615 (2000). * [32] M. Fabrizio and E. Tosatti,
Phys. Rev. B **55**, 13465 (1997). * [33] J. E. Han, O. Gunnarsson, and
V. H. Crespi, Phys. Rev. Lett. **90**, 167006 (2003). * [34] M. Capone,
M. Fabrizio, C. Castellani, and E. Tosatti, Science **28**, 2364 (2002).
