Low-temperature thermal conductivity of single-crystal Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O₈

Da-Ming Zhu

A. C. Anderson

E. D. Bukowski

D. M. Ginsberg

Department of Physics and Materials Research Laboratory, University of
Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, 1110 West Green Street, Urbana, Illinois
61801

16 February 1989

###### Abstract

The thermal conductivity κ of a single crystal of superconducting
Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O₈ has been measured at temperatures from 0.03 to 9 K. Below
2 K, where κ displays a T² dependence, the results agree in both
temperature dependence and magnitude with that of a single-crystal
superconducting YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − κ) or HoBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − κ), and are
remarkably similar to the thermal conductivity of glasses.

Since the discoveries of high-T_(c) superconducting compounds,[1, 2] a
number of studies have been made on their thermal conductivities.[3]
Most of these studies have been done on sintered materials. Because of
differences in sample porosity (and possibly some other effects), the
results from sintered materials vary considerably from sample to sample.
Although this variation provides evidence that the thermal conductance
is provided mainly by phonons,[3, 4] it has not been possible to extract
the intrinsic temperature dependence of the thermal conductivity. It is,
therefore, desirable to make thermal-conductivity measurements on
single-crystal samples. To the best of our knowledge, only one group has
measured the thermal conductivity of single-crystal superconducting
samples at low temperatures.[5] Their results show that the thermal
conductivities of single-crystal superconducting YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − x) and
HoBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − x) have a T² temperature dependence and nearly the same
magnitude below 3 K. We find the same behavior for single-crystal
superconducting Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O₈ which belongs to a newly discovered family
of high-T_(c) compounds.[6] These results suggest that the T² dependence
of the thermal conductivity below a few kelvin may be common to
high-T_(c) materials.

The sample was grown by a self-flux method,[7] with excess copper oxide
serving as the flux. The starting materials were high-purity (99.995

The sample was approximately 0.21 x 1.6 x 4.0 mm³ in size with the c
axis perpendicular to the faces of the largest dimensions. Thermal
conductivity was measured parallel to the a-b plane using a conventional
steady-state heat-flow method with two heaters and one thermometer. Two
strain gauges were employed as the heaters,[9] and a carbon resistor,
reduced in size, was used as the thermometer.[10] Thermal contacts
between the heaters and the sample were made with 0.15-mm-diam copper
wires. The wires were welded to a thin copper foil to which the strain
gauges were glued. An insulated, thin copper foil was placed between the
sample and the carbon thermometer to ensure temperature uniformity. A
small amount of GE7031 varnish was used for attaching the heaters and
the thermometer to the sample, and the sample to a dilution
refrigerator. The absolute accuracy of the measured

Figure 1: The magnetic moment divided by applied magnetic field for the
single-crystal sample of Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O₈, showing a superconducting
transition near 84 K, measured as the sample was cooled in a field of 14
Oe.

thermal conductivity, which is limited mainly by the irregular geometry
of the sample, was estimated to be about 15

Figure 2 shows the measured thermal conductivity. Between 0.03 K and
about 2 K, a least-squares fit of these data to a power law gives
κ = (0.15 ± 0.02)T^(2.0 ± 0.02) W/mK. Above 2 K, the thermal
conductivity increases more slowly than T². Figure 3 compares the
thermal conductivity of Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O₈ with those of single-crystal
YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − x) and HoBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − x). As can be seen, the thermal
conductivities of these three different materials have essentially the
same temperature dependence and magnitude.

A low-temperature T² dependence of the electronic thermal conductivity
is predicted for superconductors having a highly anisotropic energy gap
[11]. However, as mentioned above, results on sintered samples suggest
that the dominant heat carriers below 10 K in high-T_(c) materials are
phonons, not electronic excitations [12].

A T² dependence of the phonon thermal conductance can arise from the
scattering of phonons by electronic excitations, a behavior which can be
observed in normal metals if the contribution to κ by electrons is small
[13]. For a superconductor with a sufficiently anisotropic energy gap,
such phonon scattering might occur. However, without any detailed
information about the energy gap in these high-T_(c) materials, it is
difficult to judge whether such a mechanism is applicable.

A T² phonon thermal conductance is known to be characteristic of
amorphous solids, and can be very well described by a phenomenological
tunneling model of two-level systems [14]. In brief, all glassy
materials that have been studied show a T² dependence in their thermal
conductivities below about 1 K, and the magnitudes of their thermal
conductivities vary only within a factor of 5 or so for different
materials. For comparison, we plot the thermal conductivities [15, 16]
of vitreous silica and glassy Zr_(0.7)Pd_(0.3) in Fig. 3. As may be
noted, the thermal conductivities of the high-T_(c) materials are
remarkably similar to those of the glasses. It had been previously
proposed that the T² behavior of the thermal conductivity of the
high-T_(c) crystals may be phonons scattered from two-level systems, as
in glasses [3, 5]. Acoustic measurements support this explanation,
showing that the sound velocity changes in these high-T_(c) materials
follow a logarithmic temperature dependence [17, 18], which is another
characteristic of glasses [14]. Furthermore, in the La-Sr-Cu-O and
Y-Ba-Cu-O systems, a linear term in the specific heat is demonstrated
[3]. A linear term has been observed in all glassy materials studied so
far, and is also expected in the tunneling model of two-level systems
[14]. Therefore, this linear term might be associated with the T²
dependence in the thermal conductivity. Recent studies report that a
linear term is absent in the specific heat of Bi-Ca-Sr-Cu-O compounds
[19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24]. However, the uncertainties quoted for these
studies would mask a linear term which is smaller than that of other
high-T_(c) compounds, but still of the same order of magnitude as the
linear term found in glasses. Of course, the Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O₈ sample is a
single crystal, not an amorphous solid. However, "glassy" behavior has
been documented for a spectrum of disordered crystals [25].

In summary, we have measured the thermal conductivity of a single
crystal of superconducting Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O₈ compound. The results give a T²
dependence below 2 K. Both this temperature dependence and the magnitude
of the thermal conductivity found in this study are close to those
observed in single-crystal superconducting YBa

Figure 3: Comparison of the thermal conductivities of single-crystal
superconducting Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O₈, YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − x) (Ref. 5), and
HoBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − x) (Ref. 5) with the thermal conductivities of vitreous
silica (Ref. 15) and a superconducting metallic glass Zr_(0.7)Pd_(0.3)
(Ref. 16, T_(c) = 2.5 K).

Figure 2: The thermal conductivity of the single crystal of
superconducting BiSr₂CaCu₂O₈. The straight line is a least-squares fit
to the data below 1.6 K, and gives κ = (0.15±0.02)T^(2.0 ± 0.02) W/mK.

Cu₃O_(7 − x) and HoBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − x) compounds, suggesting that this
phenomenon may be a feature common to all high-T_(c) materials. The
mechanism which causes this temperature dependence is unknown, but may
be related to the two-level states found in glasses and in certain
disordered crystals.

This work was supported in part by the Department of Energy, Division of
Materials Science under Contract No. DE-AC0276ER01198 through the
University of Illinois Materials Research Laboratory (D-M.Z. and
A.C.A.), and in part by the National Science Foundation under Grant No.
NSF-DMR-86-12860 (E.D.B. and D.M.G.).

## References

* [1] J. G. Bednorz and K. A. Muller, Z. Phys. B **64**, 189 (1986). *
[2] M. K. Wu, J. R. Ashburn, C. J. Torng, P. H. Hor, R. L. Meng, L. Gao,
Z. J. Huang, Y. Q. Wang, and C. W. Chu, Phys. Rev. Lett. **58**, 908
(1987). * [3] For a brief review, see H. E. Fischer, S. K. Watson, and
D. G. Cahill, Comments Condens. Mater. Phys. **14**, 65 (1988). * [4] J.
J. Freeman, T. A. Friedmann, D. M. Ginsberg, J. Chen, and A. Zangvil,
Phys. Rev. B **36**, 8786 (1987). * [5] J. E. Graebner, L. F.
Schneemeyer, R. J. Cava, J. V. Waszczak, and E. A. Rietman, in
_High-Temperature Superconductors_, edited by M. B. Brodsky _et al._,
1987 MRS Fall Meeting Symposium Proceedings, Vol. **99** (Materials
Research Society, Pittsburgh, 1988), p. 745. * [6] H. Maeda, Y. Tanaka,
M. Fukutomi, and T. Asano, Jpn. J. Appl. Phys. **27**, L209 (1988). *
[7] D. S. Ginley, B. Morosin, R. J. Baughman, E. L. Venturini, J. E.
Schirber, and J. F. Kwak (unpublished). * [8] P. D. Han (private
communication). * [9] D. Moy and A. C. Anderson, Cryogenics **23**, 330
(1983). * [10] M. Steinback, P. J. Anthony, and A. C. Anderson, Rev.
Sci. Instrum. **49**, 691 (1978). * [11] C. M. Varma, J. Appl. Phys.
**57**, 3604 (1985). * [12] If phonons are the dominant heat carriers in
our sample, the thermal conductivity should approach a T³ dependence
below about 0.1 K as phonons are scattered predominantly by the sample
surfaces. The absence of a T³ dependence could be explained by specular
scattering of phonons from the smooth, shiny surfaces of this sample.
See T. Klitsner and R. O. Pohl, Phys. Rev. B **36**, 6551 (1987). * [13]
A. C. Anderson and S. G. O’hara, J. Low. Temp. Phys. **15**, 323
(1974). * [14] For a review, see _Amorphous Solids_, edited by W. A.
Phillips (Springer-Verlag, Berlin, 1981). * [15] T. L. Smith, P. J.
Anthony, and A. C. Anderson, Phys. Rev. B **17**, 4997 (1978). * [16] J.
E. Graebner, B. Golding, R. J. Schutz, F. S. L. Hsu, and H. S. Chen,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **39**, 1480 (1977). * [17] B. Golding, N. O. Birge, W.
H. Haemmerle, R. J. Cava, and E. Rietman, Phys. Rev. B **36**, 5606
(1987). * [18] E. Esquinazi, C. Duran, C. Fainstein, and M. N. Regueiro,
Phys. Rev. B **37**, 545 (1988). * [19] K. Kumagai and Y. Nakamura,
Physica C **152**, 286 (1988). * [20] S. L. Yuan, J. W. Li, W. Wang, Q.
Z. Ran, G. G. Zheng, W. Y. Guan, and J. Q. Zheng, Mod. Phys. Lett. B
**2**, 885 (1988). * [21] S. J. Collocott, R. Driver, C. Andrikidis, and
F. Pavese, Physica C **156**, 292 (1988). * [22] M. Sera, S. Kondoh, K.
Fukuda, and M. Sato, Solid State Commun. **66**, 1101 (1988). * [23] R.
A. Fisher, S. Kim, S. E. Lacy, N. E. Phillips, D. E. Morris, A. G.
Markelez, J. Y. T. Wei, and D. S. Ginley, Phys. Rev. B **38**, 11 942
(1988). * [24] R. Caspary, A. Hohr, H. Spille, F. Steglich, H. Schmidt,
R. Ahrens, G. Roth, H. Rietschel, Y. F. Yan, and Z. X. Zhao, Europhys.
Lett. **8**, 639 (1989). * [25] For a review, see A. C. Anderson, Phase
Trans. **5**, 301 (1985).
