# Specific heat in KFe₂As₂ in zero and applied magnetic field

J. S. Kim,¹ E. G. Kim,¹ G. R. Stewart,¹ X. H. Chen,² and X. F. Wang²

¹Department of Physics, University of Florida, Gainesville, Florida
32611, USA

²Hefei National Laboratory for Physical Science at Microscale and
Department of Physics, University of Science and Technology of China,
Hefei, Anhui 230026, China

Received 4 March 2011; published 18 May 2011

###### Abstract

The specific heat down to 0.08 K of the iron pnictide superconductor
KFe₂As₂ was measured on a single-crystal sample with a residual
resistivity ratio of ∼650, with a $T_{c}^{\rm onset}$ determined by a
specific heat of 3.7 K. The zero-field normal-state specific heat
divided by temperature, C/T, was extrapolated from above T_(c) to T = 0
by insisting on agreement between the extrapolated normal-state entropy
at T_(c), $S_{c}^{\rm range}(T_{c})$, and the measured
superconducting-state entropy at T_(c), $S_{c}^{\rm none}(T_{c})$, since
for a second-order phase transition the two entropies must be equal.
This extrapolation would indicate that this rather clean sample of
KFe₂As₂ exhibits non-Fermi-liquid behavior; i.e., C/T_increases_ at low
temperatures, in agreement with the reported non-Fermi-liquid behavior
in the resistivity. However, specific heat as a function of magnetic
field shows that the shoulder feature around 0.7 K, which is commonly
seen in KFe₂As₂ samples, is not evidence for a second superconducting
gap as has been previously proposed but instead is due to an unknown
magnetic impurity phase, which can affect the entropy balance and the
extrapolation of the normal-state specific heat. This peak (somewhat
larger in magnitude) with similar field dependence is also found in a
less pure sample of KFe₂As₂, with a residual resistivity ratio of only
90 and $T_{c}^{\rm onset}=3.1$ K. These data, combined with the measured
normal-state specific heat in field to suppress superconductivity, allow
the conclusion that an increase in the normal-state specific heat as
T → 0 is in fact not seen in KFe₂As₂; i.e., Fermi-liquid behavior is
observed.

pacs: 10.1103/PhysRevB.83.172502 + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL REVIEW
B **83**, 172502 (2011)

## I Introduction

As an end point in the Ba_(1 − x)K_(x)Fe₂As₂ system, in which
high-temperature iron compound superconductivity was discovered [1] at
x = 0.4 in the 122 structure, KFe₂As₂ has been the subject of rather
intense interest. The problem of making good samples that represent
"intrinsic" behavior in this system has been a continuing struggle.
However, it seems clear that the superconductivity in KFe₂As₂ is unusual
in several aspects. First, KFe₂As₂ shows clear evidence of nodal
behavior based on the linear temperature dependence of the penetration
depth, [2]Δλ(T) ∼ T, and on the field dependence of the thermal
conductivity, [3]κ(H) ∼ H^(1/2). Second, KFe₂As₂ exhibits
non-Fermi-liquid (nFl) behavior in its normal-state electrical
resistivity, [3]ρ = ρ₀ + AT^(1.5). Third, the specific-heat
discontinuity at T_(c), ΔC, does not follow the correlation noted by
Bud’ko, Ni, and Canfield [4] (BNC) and expanded by Kim _et al._[5] that
ΔC/T_(c) ∼ 0.083T_(c)^(1.9) for the FePn/Ch superconductors. As will be
shown for the rather high quality sample in the present work,
ΔC/T_(c) ∼ 41 mJ/mol K² for KFe₂As₂ at $T_{c}^{\rm midpoint}=3.1$ K
while the BNC phenomenological correlation would predict ΔC/T_(c) ∼ 0.7
mJ/mol K².

In the present work we argue that the straightforward extrapolation of
the zero-field normal-state specific heat to match the measured
superconducting-state entropy gives incorrect evidence for
non-Fermi-liquid behavior in KFe₂As₂. In an attempt to understand the
lower temperature anomaly (∼0.7 K) in the specific heat analyzed by
others [6] in their samples of KFe₂As₂ in terms of a two-band-gap model,
we measured the specific heat in magnetic field and found that the
low-temperature anomaly appears to be due to a magnetic impurity rather
than to a smaller superconducting band gap. This is further supported by
specific-heat data on a less pure comparison sample. The field data also
obviate the need for extrapolating the normal-state data from above
T_(c) and, at least above the magnetic anomaly, show no increase in
$C/T_{\rm normal}$ as temperature is lowered.

## II Experimental

The high-quality KFe₂As₂ single crystals were grown using KAs self-flux.
The KAs flux was prepared by reacting stoichiometric quantities of K (in
small pieces) with As powder at 200 ^(∘)C for four hours. Stoichiometric
amounts of the elements together with the prereacted flux were then
mixed as KFe₂As₂:KAs in a ratio of 1:6, placed in an alumina crucible,
and sealed in a stainless-steel container. The samples were heated to
930 ^(∘)C and slow cooled to 500 ^(∘)C. The KAs flux was dissolved by
washing in alcohol. Resistive superconducting onset temperatures for
three samples of KFe₂As₂ prepared in this manner varied between 4.2 and
4.4 K, with transition widths of 0.4-0.5 K. Residual resistivity ratios
(RRR), defined as ρ(300 K) divided by the resistivity extrapolated to
T = 0 from above $T_{c}^{\rm onset}$, varied between 600 and 680.

KFe₂As₂ crystals of lower (∼90) RRR were prepared using prereacted FeAs
self-flux. The FeAs flux was prepared by mixing together stoichiometric
amounts of Fe and As powders, pressing into pellets, and reacting at 900
^(∘)C for 10 hours. Stoichiometric amounts of the elements together with
the reground FeAs flux were then mixed as KFe₂As₂:FeAs in a ratio of 1 :
2, placed in an alumina crucible, and sealed in a Nb container. The
samples were heated to 1150 ^(∘)C, held for five hours, and cooled at 5
^(∘)C/hr to 500 ^(∘)C, and then cooled at 75 ^(∘)C/hr to room
temperature. Samples were removed mechanically from the FeAs flux.
Resistive superconducting onset temperatures for samples prepared using
this method were typically 3.8 to 3.9 K, with transition widths of order
1.0 K. RRR values varied between 86 and 96, similar to values reported
in the literature [3] for this preparation method.

Several small single crystals of total mass 6.29 mg of the high-RRR
sample and two single crystals of total mass 8.00 mg of the lower RRR
sample were attached using GE 7031 varnish to our specific heat sample
platform and measured in zero and applied field using standard
techniques.[7]

## III Results and discussion

The specific heat of the collage of high-quality (RRR ∼ 650) single
crystals in the form of flat platelets of KFe₂As₂ down to 0.08 K is
shown in Fig. 1. A smooth extrapolation of the normal-state data down to
T = 0 that gives the same normal-state entropy, S_(n)(T_(c)), as is
measured in the superconducting state, S_(s)(T_(c)) = ∫C_(s)/T dt
(integral is from 0 to $T_{c}^{\rm onset}$), is shown that satisfies the
requirement that S_(n)(T_(c)) = S_(s)(T_(c)) for a second-order phase
transition. This extrapolation implies that C_(s)/T_increases_ as
temperature is lowered past about 2.3 K. Such an increase in C/T at low
temperatures, although only about 10

The field dependence of the shoulder in the low-temperature specific
heat at around 0.7 K, which appears like the signature of a second,
smaller superconducting gap as has been observed[8] in, e.g., MgB₂, is
shown in Fig. 2. The field was applied in the ab plane of the crystal
collage, based on a report[9] that H_(c2)(T = 0) ∼ 4.5 T for this field
direction in a sample of KFe₂As₂, RRR = 87, while H_(c2)(T = 0) ∼ 1.3 T
for H∥_(c). As the applied magnetic field increases, the suppression of
the superconducting specific-heat anomaly, $T_{c}^{\rm onset}=3.68$ K in

Figure 1: (Color online) Specific-heat data in zero field of KFe₂As₂,
with RRR ∼ 650 down to 0.08 K. Extrapolation of the normal state data
(red line) is drawn to match the normal and superconducting state
entropies at T_(c). As can been seen, this fit implies nFI behavior (by
definition, in a Fermi liquid γ is independent of temperature at low
temperature) as observed in the heavy-fermion superconductor UBe₁₃,
where γ increases 20

Figure 3: (Color online) Upper critical field as a function of
temperature in high-quality KFe₂As₂ field in the ab plane. The red-line
extrapolation follows the function
H_(c2) = H_(c2)(T = 0)^(γ)[1 − (T/T_(c))²], and the T_(c)’s used are
$T_{c}^{\rm onset}$ as determined from the bulk specific heat data in
Fig. 2. Even if the T_(c)’s are determined from the position of the peak
in the specific heat (which would correspond to the resistive transition
being fully finished), an extrapolation of these $T_{c}^{\rm peak}$ data
(not shown) gives H_(c2)(T = 0) = 6.1 T. This is another example of
sample-dependent properties in KFe₂As₂, contrasting with the report of
Terashima _et al.[9]_ that H_(c2)(T = 0) = 4.5 T, H ∥ ab, using
resistive measurements of their RRR = 87 sample of KFe₂As₂.

Figure 2: (Color online) Specific heat as a function of field for
high-quality single-crystalline KFe₂As₂, with the field in the plane of
the flat platelet crystals, i.e., in the ab plane. Note that although
the superconducting transition is suppressed in temperature with
increasing field, and is absent by H_(c2) ∼ 4.5 T, the 0.7 K shoulder
becomes more pronounced with increasing field. The amount of entropy
associated with this anomaly, presumably proportional to the
concentration of the impurity phase that produces it, is only about 0.03

zero field, progresses such that in 4.5 T this anomaly can no longer be
distinguished. As an aside, note that H_(c2)(T = 0) for the present
sample must be larger than 4.5 T since C/T as T → 0 is still falling
sharply in this field in Fig. 2. Plotting applied field vs
$T_{c}^{\rm onset}$ from the specific-heat data from Fig. 2 in Fig. 3
shows that H_(c2)(T = 0) for this clean sample of KFe₂As₂ is
approximately 7.1 T for field in the ab plane.

Focusing now on the anomaly at 0.7 K, its apparent nonsuperconducting
nature (since it remains at approximately the same temperature as field
is increased as shown in Fig. 2) provides an alternative explanation to
the need for the extrapolated $C_{\rm normal}/T$ in Fig. 1 to increase
as T → 0 to match the superconducting-state entropy. Thus, the
normal-state C/T (as shown by the data in field in Fig. 2) simply
decreases monotonically with decreasing temperature (Fermi-liquid
behavior) and accretes the extra entropy from the impurity normal phase
component (the 0.7 K anomaly) in order to match the
superconducting-state entropy (which of course also includes the
anomaly.) Following the 4.5 T data down to 0.8 K in Fig. 2 (i.e., just
above the anomaly), it is apparent that the entropy-driven extrapolation
in Fig. 1 is incorrect and in fact the normal-state C/T continues to
fall as temperature is lowered.

In order to further investigate this anomaly, Fig. 4 shows the specific
heat in zero and applied field down to 0.4 K of a lower quality, RRR =
90, sample. The low-temperature anomaly is more prominent, containing
six times the entropy of the corresponding anomaly in the high-RRR
sample, and more rounded, and occurs at the slightly higher temperature
of ∼1 K. Even up to 12 T the anomaly is only suppressed gradually to
lower temperature, implying that the internal exchange fields are rather
large. There are numerous examples where the exchange fields are much
larger in energy than the ordering temperature of the magnetic
transition; e.g., in CeRhIn₅ the temperature of the antiferromagnetic
transition is 3.8 K, and 45 T suppresses this only to 3.2 K.[10]
Clearly, this anomaly is an important source of the entropy in the
extrapolation of the normal-state specific-heat data below T_(c).

## IV Summary and conclusions

Specific heat in magnetic fields up to 12 T and to temperatures down to
0.08 K on two single-crystal samples of KFe₂As₂ of differing qualities
(RRR ∼ 650 and 90) shows that the anomaly around 0.7 K in the specific
heat is due to a magnetic phase. Since the anomaly is enhanced in the
lesser quality sample, we conclude that it is extrinsic as has been
seen[11] in the specific heats of other iron pnictide superconductors at
low temperatures. The specific heat measured in fields to suppress
superconductivity behaves like a Fermi liquid; i.e., γ decreases
monotonically with decreasing temperature, down to the magnetic anomaly.
Sample dependence continues to play a role in the measured properties of
this interesting compound, with the extrapolated H_(c2)(0) for the RRR ∼
650 sample for field in the ab plane being almost 60

###### Acknowledgements.

The authors gratefully acknowledge discussions with Eric Bauer, Peter
Hirschfeld, Kevin Ingersent, and Vivek Mishra. Work at Florida was
performed under the auspices of the United States Department of Energy,
Contract No. DE-FG02-86ER45268. Work below 0.4 K in magnetic field was
performed at NHMFL, Tallahassee, which is supported by the United States
National Science Foundation.

## References

* [1] M. Rotter, M. Tegel, and D. Johrendt, Phys. Rev. Lett. **101**,
107006 (2008). * [2] K. Hashimoto, A. Serafin, S. Tonegawa, R.
Katsumata, R. Okazaki, T. Saito, H. Fukazawa, Y. Kohori, K. Kihou, C. H.
Lee, A. Iyo, H. Eisaki, H. Ikeda, Y. Matsuda, A. Carrington, and T.
Shibauchi, Phys. Rev. B **82**, 014526 (2010). * [3] J. K. Dong, S. Y.
Zhou, T. Y. Guan, H. Zhang, Y. F. Dai, X. Qiu, X. F. Wang, Y. He, X. H.
Chen, and S. Y. Li, Phys. Rev. Lett. **104**, 087005 (2010); T.
Terashima, M. Kimata, N. Kurita, H. Satsukawa, A. Harada, K. Hazama, M.
Imai, A. Sato, K. Kihou, C.-H. Lee, H. Kito, H. Eisaki, A. Iyo, T.
Saito, H. Fukazawa, Y. Kohori, H. Harima, and S. Uji, _ibid._**104**,
259701 (2010); J. K. Dong and S. Y. Zhou, _ibid._**104**, 259702
(2010). * [4] S. L. Bud’ko, N. Ni, and P. C. Canfield, Phys. Rev. B
**79**, 220516 (2009). * [5] J. S. Kim, G. R. Stewart, S. Kasahara, T.
Shibauchi, T. Terashima, and Y. Matsuda, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter
**23**, 222201 (2011). * [6] H. Fukazawa, Y. Yamada, K. Kondo, T. Saito,
Y. Kohori, K. Kuga, Y. Matsumoto, S. Nakatsuji, H. Kito, P. M. Shirage,
K. Kihou,

Figure 4: (Color online) Specific heat as a function of magnetic field,
H ∥ ab plane, down to 0.4 K on a lower quality (RRR = 90)
single-crystalline sample of KFe₂As₂ than shown in Figs. 1 and 2. The
4.5 and 6 T data are essentially identical below 1.5 K. An extrapolation
(not shown) of the zero-field normal-state data to T = 0 to match the
superconducting-state entropy gives γ = 91 mJ/mol K², with
$C_{\rm normal}/T$ in this extrapolation decreasing monotonically as
T → 0.

N. Takeshita, C.-H. Lee, A. Iyo, and H. Eisaki, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn.
**78**, 083712 (2009). * [7] G. R. Stewart, Rev. Sci. Instrum. **54**, 1
(1983); B. Andraka, J. S. Kim, G. R. Stewart, K. D. Carlson, H. H. Wang,
and J. M. Williams, Phys. Rev. B **40**, 11345 (1989). * [8] F. Bouquet,
Y. Wang, R. A. Fisher, D. G. Hinks, J. D. Jorgensen, A. Junod, and N. E.
Phillips, Europhys. Lett. **56**, 856 (2001). * [9] T. Terashima, M.
Kimata, H. Satsukawa, A. Harada, K. Hazama, S. Uji, H. Harima, G.-F.
Chen, J.-L. Luo, and N.-L. Wang, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **78**, 063702
(2009). * [10] T. Takeuchi, T. Inoue, K. Sugiyama, D. Aoki, Y. Tokiwa,
Y. Haga, K. Kindo, and Y. Onuki, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **70**, 877
(2001). * [11] J. S. Kim, E. G. Kim, and G. R. Stewart, J. Phys.
Condens. Matter **21**, 252201 (2009).
