Large copper isotope effect in oxygen depleted YBa2Cu3Oy : Importance of
Cu-dominated phonon modes in the pairing mechanism

Guo-meng Zhao,${}^{\rm n}$ Vidula Kirtikar, K. K. Singh, A. P. B. Sinha,
and Donald E. Morris

Morris Research, Inc., 44 Marguerita Road, Kensington, California 94707

A. V. Inyushkin

Institute of Molecular Physics, Russian Research Center ’Kurchatov
Institute,” Moscow, Russia

###### Abstract

We have measured the copper isotope effect in YBa2Cu3O7. We find a large
positive copper-isotope exponent ($\alpha_{\rm Cu}$=0.37) in the
underdoped plateau region (y∼ 6.6). The exponent decreases to zero (or
slightly negative) in the optimally doped region (y∼ 6.94). The
$\alpha_{\rm Cu}$ in YBa2Cu3O6.6 is similar to the $\alpha_{\rm O}$
(oxygen-isotope exponent) in YBa2_(−x)La_(x)Cu3Oy with the same T_(c).
These comparable values of $\alpha_{\rm Cu}$ and $\alpha_{\rm O}$ show
that phonons which involve Cu motion as well as the (high-frequency)
modes of the oxygen in the CuO2 planes are important in the pairing
mechanism. [S0163-1829(96)07333-X]

It is now well established that oxygen isotope effect is small in
optimally doped cuprates (highest T_(c)) but large in underdoped
cuprates.[1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10] This large oxygen-isotope
effect points to an important role of phonons in the pairing mechanism
of high-T_(c) superconductivity. Recently, we have observed a large
oxygen-isotope shift (ΔT_(c)= − 1.46 K) in site-selective oxygen isotope
substituted underdoped Y0.?Pr0.3Ba2Cu3O7 samples where ¹⁸O atoms are in
the CuO2 planes and ¹⁶O atoms are in the apical and chain sites.[11]
This shows that the phonon modes which involve the CuO2 plane oxygen
(not the apical oxygen) are responsible for most of the oxygen-isotope
shift, and that these phonon modes are important in the pairing
mechanism of high-T_(c) superconductivity.

Since the planar oxygen contributes a large isotope effect in underdoped
YBa2Cu3O7 (YBCO), one might anticipate a large copper-isotope effect in
underdoped YBCO, but only if the phonon modes involve motion of the
copper as well as of oxygen. Measurement of the copper-isotope effect in
underdoped YBCO thus can determine whether the low-lying Cu-dominated
phonon modes contribute substantially to the superconducting pairing.
Here we report the measurements of the copper-isotope effect in
underdoped and optimally doped YBCO.

Since the compound YBa2Cu3O7 is a line phase, it is not difficult to
ensure the same Y/Ba/Cu composition for two samples prepared separately.
But it is difficult to ensure that two reduced and then quenched samples
have exactly the same oxygen content, which is so sensitive to the grain
size and the density of the pellets. Fortunately, in the YBCO system
there exists a plateau region [T_(c)∼ 58-60 K; y∼ 6.52−6.67 (Ref. [12])]
where the transition temperature is insensitive to the oxygen content.
This provides an opportunity to obtain a reliable copper-isotope shift
in oxygen-depleted YBCO if the oxygen content is in the plateau region.

The samples were prepared from high-purity Y2O3 (99.99

The mixtures of Y2O3 and BaCO3 were first prepared with the required
stoichiometric ratio of Y and Ba. These mixtures were then combined with
the stoichiometric amounts of ⁶³CuO and ⁶⁵CuO. They were ground in the
same manner and for the same time. The well-mixed powder samples were
calcined at 920 ^(∘)C for 15 h in flowing oxygen (70 cc/min). The
samples were then ground thoroughly, pelletized, and sintered at
920 ^(∘)C for 15 h in flowing oxygen. To ensure that the samples had
small grain size and enough porosity, they were reground, pelletized,
and annealed at 800 ^(∘)C in flowing oxygen for 10 h, and cooled to room
temperature in 6 h (130 ^(∘)C/h). The samples were finally annealed at
670 ^(∘)C in flowing oxygen for 12 h and cooled to 120 ^(∘)C in 11 h
(50 ^(∘)C/h). From the measured lattice constants (a= 3.821 A , b= 3.884
A , and c= 11.687 A), the oxygen content y was determined to be
6.94 ± 0.02 (Ref. [12]). Three samples with natural Cu isotope were
prepared in the same way. These samples were used to check whether the
transition temperatures are the same for samples prepared separately
using the identical procedure and the same Cu isotope.

The reduced samples were obtained by annealing the above samples in
flowing mixed gas (0.1

The susceptibility was measured with a Quantum Design superconducting
quantum interference device (SQUID) magnetometer. The field-cooled,
measured-on-warming susceptibility was measured in a field of   10 Oe.
For the optimally doped samples (in which the isotope shift is very
small), the temperature measurements were performed with a platinum
resistance thermometer (Lakeshore PT-111) placed in direct contact with
the sample and driven by microprocessor controlled ac bridge in the
SQUID. The resolution was 2.5 mK and reproducibility 10 mK at 77 K after
cycling to room temperature.7 For the other samples, the temperatures
were directly measured from the internal thermometer of the SQUID
magnetometer, which shows reproducibility of +- 0.05 K from repeated
measurements on the same sample. The magnetic-field was kept unchanged
throughout each series of measurements.

In Figs. 1(a)-1(d), we show the susceptibility near T_(c) for the ⁶³Cu
and ⁶⁵Cu samples of pair I with different oxygen contents: (a) y∼ 6.94;
(b) y∼ 6.75; (c) y∼ 6.63; (d) y∼ 6.48. Since there is a room-temperature
annealing effect for the reduced samples, we measured the samples one
week after they had been prepared. The isotope shifts of the transition
temperature are determined from the linear portion of the susceptibility
data extended to the base line (as indicated in the figures), in order
to eliminate effects due to possible differences in demagnetization
factor, particle size, and superconducting fraction of the ⁶³Cu and ⁶⁵Cu
samples. Near T_(c) , the effects due to intragrain flux trapping and
intergrain weak link will be small in our porous samples. Under these
conditions, the slope of the linear portion near T_(c) on the transition
curve is proportional to R² (where R is the average radius of the
grains).13 The ⁶³Cu and ⁶⁵Cu samples show nearly identical slopes of the
linear portion [Fig. 1(a)], indicating that the two samples have nearly
the same grain size. Since the samples are very porous, and the grain
sizes of both samples are nearly the same, the diffusion of oxygen into
and out of the two samples is the same. This ensures that, after they
are subject to the same heating and cooling schedule, they will have the
same oxygen content.

The copper-isotope exponent is defined as $\alpha_{\rm Cu}$ = −d lnT_(c)
/ d ln$M_{\rm Cu}$. If we take T_(c) as the diamagnetic onset
temperature, we obtain $\alpha_{\rm Cu}$ = − 0.017 and T_(c)∼ 93.0 K for
y∼ 6.94; $\alpha_{\rm Cu}$ = + 0.25 and T_(c)∼ 73.0 K for y∼ 6.75;
$\alpha_{\rm Cu}$ = + 0.37 and T_(c)∼ 60.0 K for y∼ 6.63;
$\alpha_{\rm Cu}$ = + 0.37 and T_(c)∼ 48.5 K for y∼ 6.48. The
uncertainty of the $\alpha_{\rm Cu}$ has two main sources: (a)
determination of T_(c) (± 0.05 K); (b) a pos

Figure 1: Copper-isotope shift of T_(c) in YBa₂Cu₃O_(z): Susceptibility
data near T_(c) for the ⁶³Cu and ⁶⁵Cu samples of pair I with different
oxygen contents: (a) y∼ 6.94; (b) y∼ 6.75; (c) y∼ 6.63; (d) y∼ 6.48. The
slopes of the linear portions on the transition curves are similar for
the ⁶³Cu and ⁶⁵Cu samples (a), indicating that they have nearly the same
grain size (see text).

sible difference in the oxygen contents of the two isotope samples
(ruled out for sample pair I, as discussed in the previous paragraph).

In Fig. 2(a), we show the susceptibility data for sample pair II with y∼
6.6. The copper-isotope shift for sample pair II is the same as that for
sample pair I within the uncertainty [see Figs. 1(c) and 2(a)] although
the two sample pairs were prepared independently by different authors of
this paper. This confirms that the observed large copper-isotope shift
in the underdoped plateau region has good reproducibility and is not an
artifact. The accuracy of the measured copper-isotope shift was also
checked by preparing samples with the same Cu isotope and measuring the
T_(c) variation.

Figure 2(b) shows the susceptibility curves for three separately
prepared samples with y∼6.6 made from natural Cu isotope. The measured
transition temperatures of these samples were the same within ÷ 0.06 K.
This shows that, in the plateau region, T_(c) is closely repeatable.
Outside the plateau region, T_(c) is an order of magnitude more
sensitive to the oxygen content so a slight difference in oxygen content
could give a spurious "isotope shift." This is clearly seen in Fig.
2(c), which shows the susceptibility for three samples separately
prepared using the same natural Cu isotope, but with y∼ 6.7 (outside the
plateau region). The T_(c) difference between sample A and C is ∼0.7 K
[see Fig. 2(c)] vs only ∼ 0.12 K in the plateau region [see Fig. 2(b)].

The above results indicate that if the samples are not in the plateau
region, a small difference in oxygen content could lead to a substantial
difference in T_(c) . Franck and Lawrie [14] reported a large negative
copper isotope effect ($\alpha_{\rm Cu}$^(∼) - 0.34 for samples with
T_(c)∼ 69.5 K, and $\alpha_{\rm Cu}$^(∼) - 0.15 for samples with T_(c)∼
64 K). Since their samples have T_(c)> 60 K they probably are outside
the plateau region (58≈T_(c)≈ 60 K).[12] Their observation of apparent
negative copper-isotope shifts may arise from slight differences in the
oxygen contents of their two isotope samples. From the magnitude of
dT_(c)/dy given in Ref. 12, it appears that Franck and Lawrie’s data
[24] can be explained by a slightly larger (∼ 0.005) oxygen content in
their ⁶⁸Cu samples.

In Fig. 3 we show the T_(c) dependence of the $\alpha_{\rm Cu}$ for
YBa₂Cu₃O_(y) and for comparison, the $\alpha_{\rm O}$ of
YBa_(2 − x)La_(x)Cu₃O_(y) (Ref. 7). The copper-isotope exponent
$\alpha_{\rm Cu}$ in the underdoped YBa₂Cu₃O_(y) shows a similar T_(c)
dependence as the oxygen-isotope exponent $\alpha_{\rm O}$ in
YBa_(2 − x)La_(x)Cu₃O_(y) . This result agrees with that reported for
La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄ (Ref. 15).

Figure 2: Susceptibility data near T_(c) for (a) the ⁶³Cu and ⁶⁵Cu
samples of pair II with y∼ 6.60; (b) three samples separately prepared
with the same natural copper isotope (and reduced to y∼ 6.6); (c) three
samples separately prepared with the same natural copper isotope (and
reduced to y∼ 6.7). The T_(c) difference between sample A and C is ∼0.12
K in the plateau region, but increases to ∼ 0.7 K outside the plateau
region.

Attempts have been made to avoid the importance of the phonons in
high-temperature superconductivity by explaining the large
oxygen-isotope effect in the underdoped HTSC region as due to a
dependence of the hole concentration on the mass of the apical
oxygen.[16] If such a model were correct, one would not expect both the
O and Cu in the CuO₂ planes to contribute substantially to the total
isotope shift. An important role for the apical oxygen mass is also
contradicted by the large oxygen-isotope shift (ΔT_(c) =  − 1.46 K),
which we observed in the site-selective Y_(0.7)Pr_(0.3)Ba₂Cu₃O₇ samples
where the ¹⁸O atoms are in the CuO₂ planes and the ¹⁶O atoms in the
apical and chain sites.[11] The large copper-isotope shift in the
underdoped region which is reported here is even more difficult to
explain by the charge-transfer mechanism[16] which is specific to the
apical oxygen.

The large copper-isotope effect in the underdoped YBCO, in conjunction
with our previous measurements of oxygen-isotope effects, suggests that
phonon modes involving Cu and O both play an important role in the
superconducting pairing. This is consistent with theoretical
calculations of the electron-phonon coupling in YBCO by Cohen, Pickett,
and Krakauer[17] who found large coupling constants to Cu- (and Ba-)
dominated modes. Furthermore, tunneling experiments in the cuprate
superconductors Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O₈ (Refs. [18] and [19]) and
Na_(1.85)Ce_(0.15)CuO₄ (Ref. [20]) have clearly shown strong-coupling
features in the tunneling conductance with an average excitation energy
of ∼ 30 meV. These results also indicate that low-lying phonon modes
such as Cu-dominated modes have a strong coupling to the electronic
continuum, in agreement with our results.

The large copper- and oxygen-isotope effect in underdoped cuprates lead
us to suggest that the phonons are important in the pairing mechanism.
However, we believe that the very small isotope effect observed in
several optimally doped cuprates cannot be explained by the conventional
phonon-mediated mechanism, but are consistent with modified phonon
mechanisms involving the anharmonicity of the phonon modes[21] and/or
polaronic nature of the conducting carriers.[22]

In summary, we have measured the copper isotope effect in the optimally
and underdoped YBa₂Cu₃O_(y). We find a very small negative or null
copper-isotope effect in the optimally doped region, and a large
positive copper-isotope effect in the underdoped region. The
copper-isotope exponent $\alpha_{\rm Cu}$ in underdoped YBa₂Cu₃O_(y) has
a similar T_(c) dependence as the oxygen-isotope exponent
$\alpha_{\rm O}$ in YBa_(2 − x)La_(x)Cu₃O_(y) with comparable magnitude.
These results, in conjunction with our previous work, show that both Cu-
and O-dominated phonon modes in the CuO₂ planes play an important role
in the pairing mechanism of high-T_(c) superconductivity.

## References

* [*] Present address: Physik-Institute der Universitat Zurich, CH-8057,
Zurich, Switzerland. * [2] B. Batlogg _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **58**,
2333 (1987). * [3] L. C. Bourne _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **58**, 2337
(1987). * [4] D. E. Morris _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **37**, 5936 (1988). *
[5] J. H. Nickel, D. E. Morris, and J. W. Ager, III, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**70**, 81 (1993). * [6] M. K. Crawford _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **41**,
282 (1990). * [7] M. K. Crawford _et al._, Science **250**, 1390
(1990). * [8] H. J. Bornemann and D. E. Morris, Phys. Rev. B **44**,
5322 (1991). * [9] J. P. Franck _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **44**, 5318
(1991). * [10] E. L. Benitez _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **38**, 5025
(1988). * [11] D. Zech _et al._, Nature (London) **371**, 681 (1994). *
[12] Guo-meng Zhao _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **54**, 14 982 (1996). * [13]
J. D. Jorgensen _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **41**, 1863 (1990). * [14]
Guo-meng Zhao and Donald E. Morris, Phys. Rev. B **51**, 16 487
(1995). * [15] J. P. Franck and D. D. Lawrie, Physica C **235-240**,
1503 (1994). * [16] J. P. Franck _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **71**, 283
(1993). * [17] V. Z. Kresin and S. A. Wolf, Phys. Rev. B **49**, 3652
(1994). * [18] R. E. Cohen, W. E. Pickett, and H. Krakauer, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **64**, 2575 (1990). * [19] S. I. Vedeneev _et al._, Physica C
**198**, 47 (1992). * [20] D. Shimada _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **51**, 16
495 (1995). * [21] Q. Huang _et al._, Nature (London) **347**, 369
(1990). * [22] V. H Crespi and M. L. Cohen, Phys. Rev. B **44**, 4712
(1991). * [23] A. S. Alexandrov, Phys. Rev. B **46**, 14 932 (1992).
