# Relation of local Cu²⁺ spins, crystal microstructure, and charge
transport

in the CuO₂ plane in Bi₂Sr₂CuO_(y)

Mao Zhiqiang, Tian Mingliang, Xu Yunhua, Yu Weijie, and Xu Cunyi

Structure Research Laboratory, University of Science and Technology of
China, Hefei, Anhui 230026, People’s Republic of China

Wang Ruiping and Wang Yu

Department of Physics, University of Science and Technology of China,
Hefei, Anhui 230026, People’s Republic of China

Zhang Yuheng

Chinese Center of Advanced Science and Technology (World Laboratory),
P.O. Box 8730, People’s Republic of China and Structure Research
Laboratory, University of Science and Technology of China, Hefei, Anhui
230026, People’s Republic of China

Received 4 August 1994; revised manuscript received 22 December 1994

###### Abstract

Single-phase Bi₂Sr₂CuO_(y) samples with a Sr deficiency were
synthesized. Resistivity measurements have shown that a decrease in Sr
concentration causes the 2201 phase to change from a metal to an
insulator. Changes in the structural modulation of the 2201 phase, which
accompany the metal-to-insulator transition, were examined. The
experimental data indicate that the modulation periodicity reduces with
a decrease in Sr concentration. The Raman-scattering analysis showed
that the structural distortion of the 2201 phase is enhanced with a
decrease in the modulation periodicity. In addition, the behavior of
localized Cu²⁺ spins at the metal-insulator transition and its relation
to the structural distortion were studied by means of electron
paramagnetic resonance. The experimental data reveal that the fraction
of localized Cu²⁺ spins increased appreciably with the occurrence of the
metal-insulator transition. The relationship between the localized Cu²⁺
spins associated with the structural distortion and charge transport in
the CuO₂ layer is discussed, based on these experimental results.

pacs: 0163-1829/95/51(18)/12771(5)/506.00 + Footnote †: preprint: 1 MAY
1995-II

## I Introduction

Investigations of the properties of many oxide high-T_(c)
superconductors have revealed a common characteristic, i.e., they have a
CuO₂ plane in their structure. Within the range of lower carrier density
where samples exhibit insulating behavior,[1] the localized Cu²⁺ spins
are correlated antiferromagnetically in the CuO₂ plane. Shirane and
co-workers[2] found that the long-range correlation of Cu²⁺ spins, i.e.,
spin fluctuation, exists even in the normal state of superconducting
samples. Many authors believe that the origin of high-T_(c)
superconductivity is related to this type of spin fluctuation.[3, 4, 5]
Nevertheless, at present there have been few experiments to reveal the
relation which exists between spin fluctuation and charge transport in
the CuO₂ plane.

On the other hand, it is known that high-T_(c) superconductors exhibit a
strong sensitivity to the local structure due to a short coherent
length. As a result, it can be expected that the spin fluctuation should
also depend on the crystal microstructure.

An electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) measurement is effective for
determining the localized Cu²⁺ spin character. Information is obtained
on the g value from the resonance field, on the spin relaxation time
from the signal width, and on the susceptibility from the integrated
intensity of the absorption signal. Thus the EPR method should be useful
for studying the dependence of the localization of Cu²⁺ spins on
microstructural characteristics. In previous work,[6] we indicated that
transport properties in the CuO₂ plane are controlled by the crystalline
microstructure. For example, in Bi₂Sr_(2 − x)Ba_(x)CuO_(y),[6, 7] we
found that the structural distortion induced by the substitution of Ba
for Sr resulted in the metal-insulator transition. Also we deduced that
the real origin of the metal-insulator transition was the enhancement in
the degree of localization of Cu 3d electrons caused by the structural
distortion. Unfortunately, changes in the localized Cu²⁺ spins could not
be observed directly by means of an EPR spectrum, since no EPR signal
was detected above 90 K in the Ba-doped system. However, for the
single-phase Bi₂Sr₂CuO_(y) samples with Sr deficiency recently
synthesized, in which the change in structure and physical properties
were extremely similar to those in the Ba-doped system, a strong EPR
signal for the Cu²⁺ was observed. Hence an investigation of the relation
of Cu²⁺ spins, structural distortion, and charge transport in the CuO₂
plane can be conducted in this system.

## II Experimental Methods

Samples were prepared by the conventional solid-state reaction method.
Powders of Bi₂O₃, SrCO₃, MgO, and CuO were mixed with nominal
compositions of Bi₂Sr_(2 − x)Mg_(x)CuO_(y) (x = 0.1, 0.2, 0.3, 0.4, 0.5,
0.6, and 0.7) and then preheated in air at 830degC. In order to ensure
the complete reaction of the reactant oxides, the products were reground
and reheated at 830degC. Preheating took place for 50 h. Then the
powders were pressed into pellets, sintered in air at 850degC for 50 h,
and finally quenched in air. It should be mentioned here that our goal
is to prepare the Mg-substituted 2201 phase, but the experimental
results given below show that Mg atoms do not enter the 2201 structure
and that they are separate from the mixture in preheating. The prepared
samples can actually be described by Bi₂Sr_(2 − x)CuO_(y).

Powder x-ray diffraction (XRD) and electron diffraction (ED) were used
to characterize the structure of these samples. The relative composition
of these samples was analyzed using the x-ray photoelectron spectra
(XPS) measured on an ESCALAB MKII surface analysis system. Raman
spectra, measured on a Spex-1403 Raman spectrophotometer at room
temperature, were used to determine the structural distortion associated
with the change in the incommensurate modulation. The EPR experiments
were carried out at 97 K by a Bruker (ER-200D-SRC) reflection
_x_-band-type spectrometer. The frequency and magnetic field were
measured by a frequency counter and a proton NMR gaussmeter,
respectively. The resistivity of these samples was measured using a
standard four-probe method.

## III Experimental Results

### XRD and composition analyses for the Bi₂Sr_(2 − x)CuO_(y) samples

Figure 1 shows the change of the XRD patterns with composition for the
Bi₂Sr_(2 − x)CuO_(y) samples. From Fig. 1, curve a, it can be noted that
for the sample with x = 0.1 the (001) diffraction peaks split into
doublets though Bi₂Sr₂CuO_(y) (called the 2201 phase below) with c = 24
A is the major phase. A previous study [7] indicated that the splitting
behavior for the (001) reflection originates from the presence of an
insulating 2201 phase, with c = 12 A. For the samples with x > 0.1, the
XRD patterns show that the occurrence of the insulating 2201 phase with
c = 12 A is suppressed and the samples exhibit the 2201 single phase.
Table 1 gives the lattice constants for samples with x = 0.1, 0.3, 0.4,
0.6, and 0.7 obtained from a least-squares refinement. It can be seen
that the a and b axis lengths increase rapidly with a decrease in Sr
concentration, while the length of the c axis decreases.

Table 2 gives the relative compositions of the samples with x = 0.1,
0.2, 0.3, 0.4, and 0.5 measured by XPS. It shows that the compositions
of these samples are all Sr deficient compared with the stoichiometric
Bi₂Sr₂CuO_(y). The XPS analysis also revealed that elemental Mg was not
detected at either the surface or interior of these samples. It implies
that the Mg atoms do not enter the lattice of the 2201 phase. In fact,
the separation of elemental Mg at the bottom of the crucible was
observed in the process of preheating. The actual composition of the
as-prepared sample can be expressed as Bi₂Sr_(2 − x)CuO_(y) based on the
data shown in Table 2. Chakoumakos and co-workers have used the nominal
composition of Bi₂Sr_(2 − x)CuO_(y) (_x_ = 0.1 - 0.5) to synthesize the
2201 sample. [8, 9] They found that the ideal 2201 single phase can be
obtained and that the actual composition of the sample was also
identified as Bi₂Sr_(2 − x)CuO_(y). This suggests that the "ideal" 2201
phase is deficient in Sr with a range of Sr deficiency
(Bi₂Sr_(2 − x)CuO_(y), x = 0.1 - 0.5). So for the Bi₂Sr_(2 − x)CuO_(y)
it can be considered that there exist vacancies in the Sr sites and that
the number of Sr vacancies should increase with a decrease in Sr
concentration. However, although vacancies exist in Sr sites of
Bi₂Sr_(2 − x)CuO_(y), we cannot rule out the possibility that a tiny
fraction of Bi atoms occupies Sr sites. But it can be believed that the
ratio of Bi occupation in Sr sites is far smaller than that of Sr
vacancies in Bi₂Sr_(2 − x)CuO_(y). If the ratio of Bi occupation in Sr
sites is larger than that of Sr vacancies, the elemental Cu in the
composition shown in Table 2 is excessive and the excess Cu should be in
a second phase of the sample. No second phase was detected in the
Bi₂Sr_(2 − x)CuO_(y) sample within the limits of experiment accuracy, as
shown in the XRD pattern in Fig. 1. Thus the change in the lattice
constants of the 2201 phase shown in Table 1 can only be attributed to
an increase in Sr vacancies.

### ED analyses of the Bi₂Sr_(2 − x)CuO_(y) samples

Figures 2(a) -2(d) show the [100]-zone-axis ED patterns of the
Bi₂Sr_(2 − x)CuO_(y) samples with x = 0.1, 0.3, 0.5, and 0.7. The
satellite sequences reflect the conventional

  ------- -------- -------- -------- -------- --------
     x      0.1      0.3      0.4      0.5      0.7
   a (Å)   5.372    5.382    5.386    5.401    5.414
   b (Å)   5.367    5.379    5.384    5.430    5.435
   c (Å)   24.573   24.528   24.536   24.349   24.338
  ------- -------- -------- -------- -------- --------

Table 1: Structure parameters of the Bi₂Sr_(2 − x)CuO_(y) samples (the
error for the lattice constants is about 2/1000).

monoclinic incommensurate-modulation structure of the 2201 phase. From
the four ED patterns, the corresponding modulation vectors in the
_b*-c*_ plane, q = βb • +γc•, can be identified

q _(•)^(•) = 0.20b • −0.32c • (x = 0.1) ,
q _(•)^(•) = 0.21b • +0.40c • (x = 0.3) ,
q _(•)^(•) = 0.22b • −0.70c • (x = 0.5) ,
q _(•)^(•) = 0.23b • +0.95c • (x = 0.7) .

[The estimated error for the modulation vector is Δβ(Δγ) < 0.005.] It is
apparent that both the _b*_ and _c*_ components of the modulation vector
increase remarkably with a decrease in Sr content, and the variation of
the _c*_ component is larger than that of the _b*_ component. This
suggests that the wavelength of the incommensurate modulation along the
b and c axes reduces with decreasing Sr content.

### Raman-scattering analyses for the Bi₂Sr_(2 − x)CuO_(y) samples

Figure 3 shows the Raman spectra of the Bi₂Sr_(2 − x)CuO_(y) samples
with x = 0.1, 0.2, 0.3, 0.4, 0.6, and 0.7. For the samples with x = 0.1,
0.2, 0.3, and 0.4, two strong Raman modes at 456 and 622 cm⁻¹ can be
clearly observed, whose lines broaden slightly with a decrease in Sr
content. However, for the samples with x = 0.6 and 0.7, the two lines
broaden so significantly that they overlap each other in the frequency
range of 456−622 cm⁻¹. The phonon modes observed in the Raman spectra of
the Bi₂Sr_(2 − x)CuO_(y) samples can be assigned in accordance with the
assignment of phonon Raman modes of the 2201 phase in Refs. 10 and 11.
That is, the 622 and 456 cm⁻¹ lines correspond, respectively, to the
_Ag_ vibrational mode of O${}_{\rm Bi}$ atoms along the a axis and to
the _Ag_ vibrational mode of O${}_{\rm Sr}$ atoms along the c axis
(O${}_{\rm Bi}$ and O${}_{\rm Sr}$ refer to the oxygen atoms in the
Bi₂O₂ and SrO layers).

There is little doubt that the broadening shown in Fig. 3 is related to
a structural distortion associated with a change in the incommensurate
modulation. In accordance with the results in Refs. 6 and 7, it can be
stated that in the Bi₂Sr_(2 − x)CuO_(y) system the structure distortion
is enhanced with a decrease in modulation wavelength. In this case, the
Cu-O bond distance should change significantly. We have already
determined that in the Bi₂Sr_(2 − x)CuO_(y) system the a and b axis
lengths increase with decreasing Sr content. In general, the a and b
axis lengths are considered to be controlled by the in-plane Cu-O bond
distance.[12] Thus the increase of a and b axis lengths actually
reflects a distortion of the Cu-O bond. Unfortunately, such a change in
the Cu-O bond distance with the modulation structure cannot be detected
directly by Raman scattering, since the copper and oxygen atoms in the
CuO₂ layers are not Raman active in the 2201 phase.

### Resistivity of the Bi₂Sr_(2 − x)CuO_(y) samples

The temperature dependence of InPρ (ρ is the resistivity) of the
Bi₂Sr_(2 − x)CuO_(y) samples (_x_ = 0.1, 0.2, 0.3, 0.4, 0.5,

  ------- -------- -------- -------- -------- --------
     x      0.1      0.20     0.3      0.4      0.5
   Sr/Bi   0.9436   0.8961   0.8420   0.7992   0.7684
   Cu/Bi   0.4813   0.4529   0.4642   0.4315   0.4643
  ------- -------- -------- -------- -------- --------

Table 2: Relative composition of the Bi₂Sr_(2 − x)CuO_(y) samples.

Figure 3: Raman spectra of the Bi₂Sr_(2 − x)CuO_(y) samples; curve a, x
= 0.7; curve b, x = 0.6: curve c, x = 0.4; curve d, x = 0.3; curve e, x
= 0.2; curve f, x = 0.1.

0.6, and 0.7) is shown in Fig. 4. Although all the samples, except for x
= 0.1, exhibit the ideal 2201 single phase, the charge-transport
properties reflected in Fig. 4 are noticeably different. The x = 0.1
sample exhibits metallic behavior within the temperature range of 7-300
K and no superconductivity is observed, while other samples with x > 0.1
exhibit semiconductivity. Furthermore, the resistivity of the samples
increases rapidly with decreasing Sr content. For the sample with x =
0.7, the resistivity is 7-8 orders of magnitude larger than that of the
sample with x = 0.1. It can be seen that the 2201 phase changes from
metal to insulator with a decrease in Sr content.

### EPR signal for the Bi₂Sr_(2 − x)CuO_(y) samples

Figure 5 shows the EPR signal at 97 K of the Bi₂Sr_(2 − x)CuO_(y)
samples with x = 0.1, 0.2, 0.3, 0.4, 0.5, 0.6, and 0.7. The g factor
corresponding to these lines is approximately 2.1, indicating the
dominance of Cu²⁺ spins. In previous EPR investigations of high-_T_(c)_
superconductors, some authors attributed the EPR signal observed in the
0.3-0.35 T range to localized Cu²⁺ ions which do not participate in
superconductivity (at grain boundaries, for instance) or to a small
amount of Cu²⁺-based impurities. [13, 14] But Ishida and co-workers
found that the EPR signal coming from Cu²⁺ spins reproduced the
intrinsic susceptibility of the high-_T_(c)_ superconducting phase.[15]
This implied that the EPR signal in the 0.3-0.35 T range comes from
localized Cu²⁺ spins in the superconducting phase, not from an impurity
phase. From the EPR lines shown in Fig. 4, we believe that the argument
of Ishida _et al._ is reasonable. The results shown in Fig. 1 reveal
that no impurity appears in the samples with x > 0.1. Nevertheless, the
relative intensity of the EPR line shown in Fig. 5 increases rapidly
with a decrease in Sr content. Obviously, we cannot ascribe this
behavior to an increase of an impurity phase. In accordance with the
argument of Ishida _et al._, we conclude that the fraction of localized
Cu²⁺ spins increases strikingly with a decrease in Sr content in the
2201 phase.

## IV Discussion

From the experimental results described above, it is apparent that the
change in structure and charge-transport properties caused by a decrease
in Sr composition in Bi₂Sr_(2 − x)CuO_(y) is extremely similar to the
behavior observed in the Bi₂Sr_(2 − x)Ba_(x)CuO_(y) system.[6] For the
Bi₂Sr_(2 − x)Ba_(x)CuO_(y), system, we proposed that an intensification
of the structural distortion causes the Cu 3d electrons to change from a
partially delocalized to a localized state, which accounts for the
metal-insulator transition in this system. The experimental results from
the Bi₂Sr_(2 − x)CuO_(y) system are in accordance with this argument. In
Bi₂Sr_(2 − x)CuO_(y), it is apparent that the fraction of localized Cu²⁺
spins increases markedly with the change from metal to insulator.
Therefore it can be assumed that the metal-insulator transition in
Bi₂Sr_(2 − x)CuO_(y) also results from a change in the degree of
localization of the Cu 3d electrons induced by the structural
distortion.

In the literature, many authors have stressed the importance of an
antiferromagnetic (AF) spin fluctuation in the high-_T_(c)_
cuprates.[3]⁻[5] Many anomalies in the normal-state properties of
high-_T_(c)_ superconductors can be explained in terms of AF spin
fluctuations of two-dimensional itinerant-electron systems. The
above-mentioned experimental results are best understood using the
spin-fluctuation theory. In the samples with x = 0.4, 0.5, 0.6, and 0.7,
which exhibit nearly insulating

Figure 4: Temperature dependence of Inρ (ρ is the resistivity) of the
Bi₂Sr_(2 − x)CuO_(y) samples; curve a, x = 0.1; curve b, x = 0.2; curve
c, x = 0.3; curve d, x = 0.4; curve e, x = 0.5; curve f, x = 0.6; curve
g, x = 0.7.

behavior, one can imagine that an AF spin correlation among Cu²⁺ ions
exists, since a large number of the Cu 3d electrons are in a localized
state. Secondly, in samples with x = 0.3 and 0.2 which exhibit
semiconductivity, the AF spin correlation is weaker due to a decrease in
the number of localized Cu²⁺ spins. Thus, in the x = 0.1 sample
exhibiting metallic behavior, it may be deduced that the AF spin
fluctuations occur though the AF order with large range disappears. This
deduction seems to support the argument that charge transport in the
CuO₂ planes is determined by spin scattering.[16]

In accordance with the above discussion, we think that the occurrence of
high-T_(c) superconductivity is closely related to the following
factors. (1) In the normal state of high-T_(c) superconductors, the Cu
3d electrons are in partially localized states. A fraction of the Cu 3d
electrons are likely to participate in charge transport. Furthermore,
the degree of the localization of the Cu 3d electrons should be
dependent upon temperature. This idea may explain anomalies in the
normal-state properties of high-T_(c) superconductors. (2) In the normal
state, weak spin fluctuations may exist, as well as electric and
magnetic correlations between spin fluctuations and itinerant carriers.

It is obvious that, in the Bi₂Sr_(2 − x)CuO_(y) system, the change in
state of Cu 3d electrons can be attributed to the microstructural
distortion induced by a decrease in Sr content. ED and Raman-scattering
analysis have revealed that the structural distortion in the
Sr-deficient 2201 phase intensifies with a decrease in the modulation
wavelength, thus resulting in a distortion of the Cu-O bond. The
distortion in the Cu-O bond changes the hybridizing of the Cu 3d-O 2p
state, thus enhancing the degree of localization of Cu 3d electrons.
Consequently, we can say that in the Bi₂Sr_(2 − x)CuO_(y) system the
fraction of localized Cu²⁺ spins increases with a decrease in the
modulation wavelength. In other words, the state of Cu 3d electrons is
controlled by the microstructural characteristics. This view agrees well
with the argument proposed in Ref. [6].

## V Conclusion

We have studied the microstructure, transport properties, and change in
the state of Cu 3d electrons of the Bi₂Sr_(2 − x)CuO_(y) system by means
of XRD, ED, resistivity measurement, and EPR spectrum. Furthermore, the
relationship between the state of Cu 3d electrons and the structural
distortion and charge transport in the CuO₂ plane was discussed. From
these experimental investigations and analyses, the following conclusion
may be drawn.

(1) The normal-state resistivity of high-T_(c) cuprates is dependent
upon the degree of localization of the Cu 3d electrons (i.e., the number
of localized Cu²⁺ spins). This implies that charge transport in the CuO₂
plane is determined by spin scattering.

(2) The state of Cu 3d electrons is related to the crystal
microstructure. The Cu 3d electrons change from a partially delocalized
to a localized state with an increase of the structural distortion.

###### Acknowledgements.

This research was supported by the National Center for Research and
Development on Superconductivity and the Doctoral Fund of National
Education Committee of China.

## References

* [1]_Physical properties of High-Temperature superconductors I_, edited
by D. M. Ginsberg (World Scientific, Singapore, 1989). * [2] G. Shirane,
Y. Endoh, R. Birgeneau, M. A. Kastner, Y. Hidaka, M. Oda, M. Suzuki, and
T. Murakami, Phys. Rev. Lett. **59**, 1613 (1987). * [3] T. Moriya, Y.
Fakahashi, and K. Ueda, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **59**, 2905 (1990). * [4] A.
J. Millis, H. Monien, and D. Pines, Phys. Rev. B **42**, 167 (1990). *
[5] P. Monthoux and D. Pines, Phys. Rev. B **49**, 4261 (1994). * [6] Z.
Q. Mao, M. L. Tian, M. R. Ji, J. S. Zhu, J. Zuo, R. P. Wang, Y. Wang,
and Y. H. Zhang, Phys. Rev. B **49**, 9857 (1994). * [7] Z. Q. Mao, C.
G. Fan, L. Shi, Z. Yao, L. Yang, Y. Wang, and Y. H. Zhang, Phys. Rev. B
**47**, 14467 (1993). * [8] C. Chakoumakos, P. S. Eby, B. C. Sales, and
Edward Sonder, J. Mater. Res. **4**, 767 (1989). * [9] Edward Sonder, B.
C. Chakoumakos, and B. C. Sales, Phys. Rev. B **40**, 6872 (1989). *
[10] M. Cardona, C. Thomsen, R. Liu, H. G. Vonschnering, M. Hartwey, Y.
F. Yan, and Z. X. Zhao, Solid State Commun. **66**, 1225 (1988). * [11]
R. Liu, M. Klein, P. D. Han, and D. A. Payne, Phys. Rev. B **45**, 7392
(1992). * [12] P. Mandal, A. Poddar, and B. Ghosh, Phys. Rev. B **43**,
13 102 (1991). * [13] K. Tagaya, N. Fukuoka, and Nakanishi, Jpn. J.
Appl. Phys. **29**, 868 (1990). * [14] Y. Hayashi, M. Fukui, H.
Sasakura, S. Minamigawa, T. Fujita, and K. Nakahigashi, Jpn. J. Appl.
Phys. **28**, 759 (1989). * [15] T. Ishida, K. Koga, S. Nakamura, Y.
Lye, K. Kanoda, S. Okui, T. Takahashi, T. Oashi, and K. Kumagai, Physica
C **176**, 24 (1991). * [16] T. Ito, K. Takenaka, and S. Uchida, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **70**, 3995 (1993).

Figure 2: (a) and (c), $\left[\bar{1}00\right]$-zone-axis ED patterns of
the Bi_(x)Sr_(2 − x)CuO_(y) samples with x = 0.1 and 0.5; (b) and (d),
[100]-zone-axis ED patterns of the Bi_(x)Sr_(2 − x)CuO_(y) samples with
x = 0.3 and 0.7.
