Pressure-induced metallization, transition to the pyrite-type structure,
and superconductivity in palladium disulfide PdS2

M. A. ElGhazali, P. G. Naumov, Q. Mu, V. Suss, A. O. Baskakov, C.
Felser, S. A. Medvedev

Max Planck Institute for Chemical Physics of Solids, Dresden 01187,
Germany Institute for Solid State Physics, Technical University Dresden,
Dresden 01069, Germany

³Shubnikov Institute of Crystallography of Federal Scientific Research
Centre

"Crystallography and Photonics" of Russian Academy of Sciences, Moscow
119333, Russia

###### Abstract

The pressure effect on crystal structures, lattice vibrations, and
electrical transport properties of PdS2 and NiSe2 were studied under
high pressures of up to  50 GPa using Raman spectroscopy and electrical
resistivity measurements. PdS2 undergoes semiconductor-to-metal
transition at a pressure of  7 GPa without a structural phase
transition. Structural transition to the pyrite-type phase occurs at a
pressure of  16 GPa. Superconductivity emerges in the pyrite-type phase
of PdS2 with a well-defined dome-shaped dependence of critical
temperature of superconductivity on pressure, with a maximum value of
8.0 K at 37.4 GPa. Although this behavior is similar to that in
isostructural PdSe2, correlation with anomalous anion bond softening at
critical temperature is not observed in PdS2 in contrast to PdSe2.
Conversely, the anion bond instability is observed by the softening of
the Se22- internal vibrational Raman mode in pyrite NiSe2 under
pressure. Despite the persisting structural instability due to
destabilization of Se22- dimers, NiSe2 remains a normal
nonsuperconducting metal.

2019 100 014507 2469-9950/2019/100(1)/014507(7)

## 1 Introduction

Superconductivity with relatively high critical temperature (_T_c) often
emerges in compounds with structural instabilities associated with
phonon softening, resulting in strongly enhanced electron-phonon
coupling. A class of compounds much discussed in this respect are the
A15 superconductors with general chemical formula A3_B_ (_A_ = group
IVb−Vlb element, B = group IIIa−Va element) of which some are close to
structural distortions [1,2]. The systematic tuning of chemical bonds as
a structural parameter (by applied physical or chemical pressure)
driving the system toward structural instability was demonstrated to be
useful to control physical properties [3] and to enhance or even induce
the superconductivity [4-7].

Transition metal dichalcogenides _TX_2 (where T denotes the transition
metal and X refers to the chalcogenide atom) with a pyrite structure
containing quasimolecular X₂²⁻ dimers are an excellent system to analyze
bonding systematics because electronic effects in these compounds are
correlated with nonmetal-nonmetal bond strength [8-10].
Superconductivity in pyrite superconductors [11-14] might correlate with
structural instability caused by destabilization of anion dimers.
Superconductivity with the highest critical temperature emerges in these
compounds in the vicinity of the weakest Se22- bonds tuned by chemical
substitution in defective pyrite Ir0.94-xRh,Se2 (9.6 K for x = 0.36)
[11], or by pressure in the high-pressure pyrite phase of PdSe2 (13.1 K
at 23 GPa) [14]. To obtain further insight into the interplay between
superconductivity and the bond strength of anion dimers in the pyrite
structure, we performed experimental studies of lattice dynamics and
electrical resistivity of PdS2 (isostructural with PdSe2 at ambient
conditions) and pyrite NiSe2 under high pressure.

## 2 Experimental Details

Single crystal samples of PdS2 and NiSe2 for this study were grown using
the chemical vapor transport method. The compounds PdS2 and NiSe2 have
first been synthesized by a direct reaction of the elements Pd (Alfa
Aesar 99.95

A screw-clamped diamond anvil cell equipped with 500-m cut diamond
anvils was used for the simultaneous Raman spectroscopy and electrical
resistivity measurements. The gasket was made of a 300-m thick tungsten
foil. For electrical resistivity measurements, the tungsten gasket was
insulated with a cubic BN/epoxy mixture. Single crystal samples of a
near-square shape  120-m size and  5-10-m thickness were loaded in the
sample chamber (diameter 200 μm and height 40 μm) filled with NaCl as
the pressure transmitting medium. Four electrical leads fabricated from
5-μm-thick Pt foil were contacted by application of pressure to the
surface of the sample in the van der Pauw configuration. Electrical
resistivity was measured with a direct current, in temperature range
from 1.4 K to room temperature.

Raman spectra were collected at room temperature in backscattering
geometry using a customary confocal micro-Raman spectrometer equipped
with 20 x long working distance objective, HeNe laser as the excitation
source, and a single-grating spectrograph with 1 cm-1 resolution.
Pressure was measured _in situ_ with an accuracy of  0.1 GPa using the
standard ruby fluorescence scale.

## III Results and Discussion

### Suppression of structural distortion, metallization, and transition
to the pyrite-type structure

PdS2 and PdSe2 at normal pressure crystalize into the unique
orthorhombic PdS2-type structure belonging to the _Pbca_ space group
[Fig. 1(a)], which is a distorted pyrite structure [Fig. 1(b)] with the
PdS6 octahedra elongated along the c axis, leading to a square-planar
coordination of Pd. This distortion resembles the cooperative
Jahn-Teller (JT) effect [15]. However, in the symmetrical octahedral
coordination, the lowest state according to Hund’s rule is the
spin-triplet 3A2 state of the Pd (_d_8) cation. This is an orbitally
nondegenerated state and thus not of JT nature. Because the lowest
exited states 1E and 3I have spin multiplicity different from that of
the ground 3A2 state, there is also no pseudo (second-order) JT effect
for the ground state. If the excited 1I1 and 1E states are close in
energy with sufficiently strong JT-like vibrational coupling between
them [hidden pseudo-JT effect (PJT)] [16], the energy gap to the ground
term might be overcome, and the distorted configuration with singlet
electronic state becomes energetically favorable [Fig. 1(c)]. Such a
situation is apparently realized in PdS2 and PdSe2 (as the only source
of instability and distortion of the high-symmetry system configuration
in the nondegenerate state [16,17]) due to strong coupling between the
half-filled electronic shell system e2 and the _E_g lattice mode in the
undistorted pyrite-type structure with symmetric octahedral
coordination. This leads to the structural distortion, with electrons
filling the lower _d_z_2 orbitals [Fig. 1(c)]. This configuration
accounts for the diamagnetic semiconducting properties of PdS2 (PdSe2)
at ambient pressure conditions.

Application of external pressure eliminates the structural distortion of
PdSe2, rendering the pyrite-type structure stable at pressures above 11
GPa, as established by high-pressure structural [15] and Raman
spectroscopy [14] studies. According to the pressure homology principle,
the same structural transition can also be expected in PdS2 at higher
pressures. Indeed, pressure evolution of the Raman spectra of PdS2 [Fig.
2(a)] indicates high-pressure transformation to the pyrite-type
structure in PdS2.

The Raman spectrum of PdS2 at the ambient pressure [Fig. 2(a)] is
similar to that of bulk isostructural PdSe2 [18], with all peaks shifted
to higher frequencies due to the lighter

Figure 2: (a) Selected Raman spectra of PdS2 collected at a pressure
increase run. Numbers denote pressure values in GPa. Mode assignment for
the PdS2-type structure is presented at the ambient pressure spectrum,
and for the pyrite-type structure, at 20.2 GPa. (b) and (c) Pressure
dependence of the frequencies of the librational A_(g)¹ mode (double
degenerated _E_g mode in the pyrite phase) and the A_(g)² symmetric
stretching mode (_A_g mode in the pyrite phase) of the S₂²⁻ anions,
respectively. Dashed lines indicate tentative phase boundaries drawn by
analogy with PdSe2 (Appendix).

Figure 1: The ambient-pressure crystal structure of PdS2 (a) is a
distorted pyrite structure (b). (c) Schematic dependence of the energy
of the electronic states of the half-filled e2 system on deformation
coordinate q (_E_ mode). Strong vibrational coupling between excited
states (hidden pseudo-Jahn-Teller effect, PJT) makes the distorted
configuration with the doubly occupied _d_z_2 orbital energetically
favorable (energy separation ΔE and energy barrier _B_). (Adapted from
Ref. [16]).

atomic mass of the sulfur atoms. Thus, the mode assignment of all peaks
can be conducted in the same manner as for PdSe2 [18]. From 12 Raman
active modes following from the group analysis
(3A_(g) + 3B_(1g) + 3B_(2g) + 3B_(3g)), only three A_(g) and three
B_(1g) modes have been observed in unpolarized Raman measurements
similarly to the experimental observation in related compound PdSe2
[18], for which theoretical calculations revealed that only these modes
have nonzero Raman tensor elements [18]. The atomic vibrations observed
in the Raman spectra involve only chalcogen atoms. The A_(g)1 and A_(g)3
modes correspond to the librational and internal stretching vibrational
motions of the S dumbbells respectively, whereas the other modes are
combinations of these vibrations.

Application of pressure leads to the gradual merging of A_(g)1 with
B_(1g)1 and A_(g)3 with B_(1g)3 peaks in course of the suppression of
structural distortion and the concomitant gradual redistribution of the
peak intensities in Raman spectra [Fig. 2(a)]. The high-pressure spectra
are dominated by two peaks, which might be assigned to the doubly
degenerated E_(g) librational and A_(g) symmetric internal vibrational
stretching of the S₂2- dimers modes in the cubic pyrite-type structure
(the less intense T_(g) modes expected in the pyrite structure might be
screened by broadened E_(g) and A_(g) peaks) owing to the similarity to
the high-pressure Raman spectra of PdSe2 [14]. However, the continuous
gradual changes in the spectra make it difficult to determine the
pressure of the structural transition. Analysis of the peculiar pressure
dependence of the frequency of the librational A_(g)1 mode [Fig. 2(b)]
allows one to determine the pressure of the structural phase transition
to the pyrite-type phase.

The frequency of the librational A_(g)1 mode initially increases up to a
pressure of 7 GPa (at the rate of ∼0.7 cm-1/GPa), demonstrating normal
behavior upon compression. The mode frequency starts to decrease rapidly
upon further pressure increases of up to ∼12 GPa, and becomes nearly
pressure-independent in the pressure range of 12-16 GPa. Above 16 GPa,
the frequency starts monotonously increasing again up to the highest
applied pressure in this experiment. Such peculiar dependence of the
frequency on pressure in PdS2 is qualitatively similar to that observed
for the same lattice mode in PdSe2 (see the Appendix). Thus, by analogy
with PdSe2, the pressure of 16 GPa, at which the librational frequency
starts increasing again, delimits the accomplishment of the structural
transition to the pyrite-type phase in PdS2, whereas both PdS2-type and
pyrite-type phases coexist in the pressure range of 12-16 GPa.

The softening of the librational A_(g)1 mode frequency above 7 GPa
indicates an increase in the intralayer Pd-S distances, similar to what
has been established for the intralayer Pd-Se distances in PdSe2 [15]
(see the Appendix). Such atomic displacement corresponds to the filling
of the d_(z² − y²) orbitals of the Pd atoms [19]. Indeed, the interlayer
cation-anion distances decrease sharply upon compression [15], leading
to strong enhancement in the overlap repulsion between the filled d_(z²)
orbitals of the Pd cation and the π * shell of the S₂2- anion from the
adjacent layer. This enhanced repulsion modifies the energy landscape
[Fig. 1(c)], decreasing the energy difference ΔE and barrier height B
and enabling the tunneling between the singlet and triplet electronic
terms. Thus, both distorted (with the doubly occupied d_(z²) orbital)
and undistorted (with the electrons distributed between the d_(z²) and
d_(x² − y²) orbitals) configurations coexist dynamically in this
situation. This leads to a change in the electronic transport properties
of PdS2: Semiconducting at low pressures, PdS2 shows metallic behavior
in the whole temperature range of 1.4-300 K at pressures above 7 GPa
[Fig. 3(a)]. PdS2 remains a normal metal (with no superconductivity down
to 1.4 K) up to the structural transition to the pyrite-type phase at 16
GPa [Fig. 3(a)].

Such behavior is similar to that of PdSe2 (see the Appendix) undergoing
semiconductor-to-metal transition at 3 GPa within the PdS2-type
structure [14] concomitantly with the onset of the softening of the
A_(g)1 mode (Appendix). However, in contrast to PdSe2 showing a
softening of the internal stretching A_(g)3 mode of the Se dimers
(elongation of Se-Se bonds) at pressures above 3 GPa (Appendix), only a
monotonic hardening of the stretching mode, without any anomalies due to
S−S dimer elongation, is revealed in PdS2 up to the transition in the
pyrite-type structure [Fig. 2(c)]. Thus, the metallization in PdX2 (X=
S, Se) is driven by the population of the d_(x² − y²) orbitals of Pd
(which are strongly hybridized with chalcogen p orbitals, forming the
conduction band [14]), caused by the suppression of the structural
distortion (hidden PJT effect). This might be considered as evidence of
orbital selective metallization: While electrons in the d_(z²) orbitals
remain localized due to persisting structural distortion, the filling of
the d_(x² − y²) orbitals drives the semiconductor-to-metal transition.

### Superconductivity in the high-pressure pyrite-type phase of PdS2

Similar to PdSe2 [14], PdS2 in the high-pressure pyrite-type structure
becomes superconducting at low temperatures

Figure 3: (a) Application of pressure tunes the electronic properties of
PdS2 from a semiconductor to a metal at pressures above 7 GPa. (b) In
the high-pressure pyrite phase of PdS2, superconductivity emerges with
T_(c) showing a dome-shaped dependence on pressure (c) with the maximum
T_(c) of 8.0 K at a pressure of ∼37.4 GPa.

[Fig. 3(b)]. The resistivity curve at ∼20.7 GPa shows a drop in the
resistivity at temperature below ∼2 K [Fig. 3(b)], suggesting the onset
of a superconducting transition. The superconducting state is clearly
observed at higher pressures, with the resistivity dropping abruptly to
zero.

The critical temperature of superconductivity ($T_{\rm c}$) demonstrates
a well-defined dome-shaped dependence on pressure. Initially,
$T_{\rm c}$ increases as the pressure increases [Fig. 3(c)] at a rate of
∼0.35 K/GPa (noticeably, this rate is considerably lower than ∼1.2 K/GPa
observed in the sister compounds PdSe₂[14]). The increase of the
$T_{\rm c}$ with pressure in PdS₂ falls within the wide range of
dependences observed in transition metals superconductors where a
positive sign of $dT_{\rm c}/dP$ arises from a rapid increase of the
Hopfield parameter η = $N(E_{\rm f})\langle I^{2}\rangle$ [where
$N(E_{\rm f})$ is the electronic density of states at the Fermi energy
and ⟨I²⟩ is the average electronic matrix element] [20]. The maximum
$T_{\rm c}$ value of 8.0 K is reached at a pressure of 37.4 GPa. Above
this pressure and up to the highest experimental pressure of 46 GPa,
$T_{\rm c}$ decreases continuously. The dome-shaped dependence of
$T_{\rm c}$ is conditioned apparently by the completion of the
pressure-induced increase of the Hopfield parameter (reflecting the
character of the electrons near Fermi energy) and the stiffening of the
lattice vibration spectrum. The later effect dominates apparently at
high pressure leading to decrease of $T_{\rm c}$ at high pressures.
Theoretical calculations of the electronic structure and electron-phonon
coupling in dependence on pressure are necessary to understand the
dome-shaped dependence of $T_{\rm c}$ on pressure.

Thus, the electronic transport properties of PdS₂ in the high-pressure
pyrite-type phase are qualitatively similar to those of PdSe₂[14].
However, in contrast to PdSe₂ which shows an obvious correlation between
pressure dependences of $T_{\rm c}$ and the bonding strength of Se-Se
dumbbells [14], the anions’ internal vibration frequency in the
pyrite-phase of PdS₂ is nearly independent of pressure, without any
anomalies due to the softening of the S-S bonding [Fig. 2(c)]. This
behavior of the frequency of the internal vibration of the S₂²⁻ anions
in PdS₂ is similar to the dependence of the $A_{\rm g}$ mode frequency
on pressure in pyrite NiS₂[9]. Thus, the destabilization of the
chalcogen dumbbells is not the necessary parameter leading to the
emergence of superconductivity in the pyrite compounds. However,
$T_{\rm c}$ for pyrite superconductors PdSe₂ and Ir_(0.94 − x)Rh_(x)Se₂
shows striking correlations with the bond strength of the Se₂²⁻ anions
[11,14]. The bond softening is a result of charge transfer from the
cation to Se₂²⁻ dimers [10] leading to changes in the electronic system
(effective "hole self-doping") and thus influencing the $T_{\rm c}$
value and provoking the correlation between $T_{\rm c}$ and the bond
strength of the anions.

### Nonsuperconducting pyrite NiSe₂ under high pressure

NiS₂ and NiSe₂, which are isoelectronic with PdS₂ and PdSe₂, crystalize
at ambient pressure in the undistorted pyrite structure, with octahedral
coordination of the Ni cations in the high spin state. It is proposed
that strong on-site repulsion U in the doubly occupied d_(z^(′))
orbitals of Ni prevents the structural distortion to the PdS₂-type
structure in the Ni dichalcogenides [15]. NiS₂ is a typical strongly
correlated antiferromagnetic insulator undergoing the insulator-to-metal
transition under application of pressures of ∼2.5-3 GPa or by Se
substitution in NiS_(2 − x)Se_(x) at x∼ 0.6 by preserving the cubic
pyrite-type structure [21]. NiSe₂ is a normal metal at ambient
conditions [22]. Remarkably, theoretical calculations revealed the
anomalous behavior (elongation) of the Se-Se bond length in NiSe₂ under
compression [8]. It is interesting to prove this finding experimentally
and to check if this bonding instability leads to the pressure-induced
superconductivity in NiSe₂.

The Raman spectra of NiSe₂ in the diamond anvil cell at low pressures
[Fig. 4(a)] are in good agreement with data from the literature [23].
All five Raman-active modes ($A_{\rm g}+E_{\rm g}+3T_{\rm g}$) predicted
by factor group analysis for a pyrite-type structure could be identified
in the spectra. Application of pressure led to shifting of the observed
peaks and redistribution of intensities [Fig. 4(a)]. However, all
Raman-active modes of the pyrite structure could be identified up to the
highest pressures used in this study [Fig. 4(a); the low-frequency
$T_{\rm g}^{\rm 1}$ and $E_{\rm g}$ lines merge into a single band, as
in NiS₂, under pressure [9], indicating structural stability of the
pyrite-type structure of NiSe₂ at least up to pressures of ∼30 GPa.

Interestingly, the frequency of the internal vibrations ($A_{\rm g}$
mode) of the Se dimers demonstrates anomalous softening under
compression [Fig. 4(b)], which is in agreement with the theoretically
predicted elongation of the Se-Se distance [8]. This elongation is
caused by electron transfer from the Ni d orbitals to the antibonding σ*
states of the Se₂²⁻ dumbbells [10]. The $A_{\rm g}$ mode softening in
NiSe₂ is qualitatively similar to the Se-Se bond softening in the
high-pressure pyrite phase of PdSe₂[14]. Remarkably, the intensity of
the $E_{\rm g}$ mode increases relative to the intensity of the
$A_{\rm g}$ mode as pressure increases [Fig. 4(a)], which, once again,
shows behavior similar to that observed in the pyrite phase of PdSe₂[14]
with the softening of Se-Se bonds, but is in striking contrast to those
in the pyrite phase of PdS₂ [Fig. 2(a)] and pyrites FeS₂[24] and NiS₂[9]
with the rigid S₂²⁻ dumbbells.

Thus, NiSe₂ demonstrates Se-Se bond instability under pressure, similar
to the superconducting pyrite phase of PdSe₂, in which the dependence of
$T_{\rm c}$ on pressure shows

Figure 4: (a) Selected Raman spectra of NiSe₂ collected at a pressure
increase run. Numbers denote pressure values in GPa. Mode assignment for
the pyrite-type structure is presented for spectra at 0.7 and 23.3 GPa.
(b) Pressure dependence of the frequency of the symmetrical stretching
$A_{\rm g}$ mode of the Se₂²⁻ anion.

a striking correlation with the bonding strength of Se-Se dumbbells
[14]. Despite this similarity in lattice dynamics, NiSe₂ remains a
normal metal up to 50 GPa (Fig. 5), with no evidence of superconducting
transition at $T_{\rm c}$ values above 1.4 K. This indicates, once
again, that the structural instability due to the destabilization of the
chalcogen dumbbells is not the sufficient condition governing the
appearance of superconductivity in compounds with a pyrite structure.

It might be assumed that strong electron correlations in Ni prevent
superconductivity in NiSe₂. However, because superconductivity at
relatively high $T_{\rm c}$ is observed in the pyrite compounds of 4d
and 5d transition metals [11, 12, 13, 14], the spin-orbit coupling might
play an important role in superconductivity in these compounds. So for
PdSe₂, the _ab initio_ electronic band structure calculations indicate
the presence of Dirac and nodal-line fermions in the vicinity of the
Fermi energy protected by the pyrite structure symmetry, which can lead
to interesting superconducting states [14]. Because superconductivity
with qualitatively similar pressure behavior is observed in PdS₂ and
PdSe₂, independent of different anion bond behaviors, it might be
suggested that proximity to the structural instability, which leads to
the distortion of the pyrite structure (hidden PIT effect), is important
for the emergence of superconductivity in the high-pressure pyrite-type
phases of Pd dichalcogenides. This structural instability is caused by
the strong coupling between the half-filled $e_{\rm g}$ electronic shell
and librational $E_{\rm g}$ lattice mode in the pyrite structure. This
strong coupling manifests in correlation between evolution of the
electronic transport properties and anomalous pressure dependence of the
librational modes in PdS₂ and PdSe₂. Therefore, it might be suggested
that strong electron-phonon coupling between electrons populating
$e_{\rm g}$ shells and librational $E_{\rm g}$ modes leads to the
superconductivity in Pd compounds pyrite structure. It is suggested to
be general for pyrite superconductors since the superconductivity in
compounds with pyrite structure was observed only in compounds with
partially filled electronic $e_{\rm g}$ orbitals, while the pyrite
compounds with empty $e_{\rm g}$ orbitals (like RuSe₂, OsSe₂ and OsTe₂)
undergoing metal to insulator transition at ∼20 GPa without any
anomalies of the lattice vibrations, remain nonsuperconducting up to
pressures beyond 50 GPa [25]. This suggestion however, needs to be
proven by studies of lattice dynamic of other pyrite superconductors
like Ir_(0.94 − x)Rh_(x)Se₂ in dependence on x and pressure and
theoretical calculations.

## IV Conclusions

Raman spectroscopy studies of PdS₂ reveal a structural phase transition
from the PdS₂ type to the pyrite-type structure at a pressure of
approximately 16 GPa. Application of pressure drastically changes the
electronic transport properties of PdS₂. A semiconductor at ambient
pressure, PdS₂ becomes a metal at pressures above 7 GPa. The
metallization is concomitant with a softening of the vibrational mode
due to increasing intraplane cation-anion distances, indicative of the
population of the Pd d_(x² − y²) orbitals. Superconductivity emerges in
PdS

Figure 5: Temperature dependence of the electrical resistivity of NiSe₂
at different pressures.

Figure 6: Pressure dependence of the frequencies of (a) the librational
$A_{\rm g}$¹ mode (double degenerated $E_{\rm g}$ mode in the pyrite
phase) and (b) $A_{\rm g}$² symmetric stretching mode ($A_{\rm g}$ mode
in the pyrite phase) of the Se₂²⁻ anions in PdSe₂. Dashed lines indicate
the phase boundaries from high-pressure structural studies of PdSe₂[15].

after the structural transition to the pyrite-type phase above 16 GPa.
T_(c) demonstrates dome-shaped dependence on pressure, with the maximum
T_(c) value being 8.0 K at 37.4 GPa. Thus, the pressure evolution of the
electronic transport properties of PdS₂ is qualitatively similar to that
of PdSe₂. Despite this similarity in electronic properties, correlating
with T_(c) anomalous softening of the anion dumbbells in PdS₂ was not
observed, in contrast to PdSe₂. On the other hand, the Se-Se bond
instability was clearly observed in pyrite NiSe₂ under pressure while it
remains a normal nonsuperconducting metal. These observations imply
insufficiency of a direct correlation between structural instability due
to the destabilization of chalcogen dimers and the emergence of
superconductivity in the pyrite compounds. Because the electronic
properties of the pyrite compounds are depending on the bond strength of
the anions, the T_(c) in these compounds might be further tuned by
tuning the nonmetal-nonmetal bond strength by application of chemical or
physical pressure. However, the superconductivity in these compounds is
driven most likely by other structural instabilities. The proximity to a
structural distortion due to the strong electron-lattice coupling
(hidden PJT effect) in PdS₂ and PdSe₂ might be viewed as the structural
instability driving the emergence of superconductivity in the
high-pressure pyrite phases of the Pd dichalcogenides.

###### Acknowledgements.

This work was supported by the DFG under Projects No. ME 3652/3-1 and
No. GRK 1621. P.G.N. acknowledges the support provided by the Russian
Science Foundation (Project No. 17-72-20200). The authors thank M.
Schmidt for help with the sample synthesis and W. Schnelle for critical
reading and suggestions for improving the manuscript.

## References

* [1] L. R. Testardi, Rev. Mod. Phys. **47**, 637 (1975). * [2] G. R.
Stewart, Phys. C **514**, 28 (2015). * [3] S. Jia, P. Jiramongkolchai,
M. R. Suchomel, B. H. Toby, J. G. Checkelsky, N. P. Ong, and R. J. Cava,
Nat. Phys. **7**, 207 (2011). * [4] D. Hirai, F. von Rohr, and R. J.
Cava, Phys. Rev. B **86**, 100505(R) (2012). * [5] S. Pyon, K. Kudo, and
M. Nohara, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **81**, 053701 (2012). * [6] S. Kitagawa,
H. Kotegawa, H. Tou, H. Ishii, K. Kudo, M. Nohara, and H. Harima, J.
Phys. Soc. Jpn. **82**, 113704 (2013). * [7] K. Kudo, H. Ishii, and M.
Nohara, Phys. Rev. B **93**, 140505(R) (2016). * [8] J. Kunes, L.
Baldassarre, B. Schichner, K. Rabia, C. A. Kuntscher, D. M. Korotin, V.
I. Anisimov, J. A. McLeod, E. Z. Kurmaev, and A. Moewes, Phys. Rev. B
**81**, 035122 (2010). * [9] C. Marini, A. Perucchi, D. Chermisi, P.
Dore, M. Valentini, D. Topwal, D. D. Sarma, S. Lupi, and P. Postorino,
Phys. Rev. B **84**, 235134 (2011). * [10] S. S. Streltsov, A. O.
Shorikov, S. L. Skornyakov, A. I. Poteryaev, and D. I. Khomskii, Sci.
Rep. **7**, 13005 (2017). * [11] J. Guo, Y. Qi, S. Matsuishi, and H.
Hosono, J. Am. Chem. Soc. **134**, 20001 (2012). * [12] Y. Qi, S.
Matsuishi, J. Guo, H. Mizoguchi, and H. Hosono, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**109**, 217002 (2012). * [13] J. Guo, Y. Qi, and H. Hosono, Phys. Rev.
B **87**, 224504 (2013). * [14] M. A. ElGhazali, P. G. Naumov, H.
Mirhosseini, V. Suss, L. Muchler, W. Schnelle, C. Felser, and S. A.
Medvedev, Phys. Rev. B **96**, 060509(R) (2017). * [15] C. Soulard, X.
Rocquefelte, P. E. Petit, M. Evain, S. Jobic, J. P. Itie, P. Munsch, H.
J. Koo, and M. H. Whangbo, Inorg. Chem. **43**, 1943 (2004). * [16] I.
B. Bersuker, Chem. Rev. **113**, 1351 (2013). * [17] I. Bersuker, _The
Jahn-Teller Effect_ (Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, 2006). *
[18] A. D. Oyedele, S. Yang, L. Liang, A. A. Puretzky, K. Wang, J.
Zhang, P. Yu, P. R. Pudasaini, A. W. Ghosh, Z. Liu, C. M. Rouleau, B. G.
Sumpter, M. F. Chisholm, W. Zhou, P. D. Rack, D. B. Geohegan, and K.
Xiao, J. Am. Chem. Soc. **139**, 14090 (2017). * [19] K. I. Kugel and D.
I. Khomskii, Sov. Phys. Usp. **25**, 231 (1982).

* Schilling [2007] J. S. Schilling, in _Handbook of High-Temperature
Superconductivity: Theory and Experiment_, edited by J. R. Schrieffer
and J. S. Brooks (Springer, New York, 2007), p. 427. * Wilson [1972] J.
A. Wilson, Adv. Phys. **21**, 143 (1972). * Honig and Spalek [1998] J.
M. Honig and J. Spalek, Chem. Mater. **10**, 2910 (1998). * [20] C. d.
l. Heras and F. Agullo-Rueda, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter **12**, 5317
(2000). * Klepe and Jephcoat [2004] A. K. Klepe and A. P. Jephcoat,
Mineral. Mag. **68**, 433 (2004). * Naumov _et al._ [2019] P. G. Naumov,
M. A. ElGhazali, and S. A. Medvedev (unpublished).
