Antiferromagnetic ordering states of oxygen-deficient NdBa2Cu3O6+_x and
Nd1+yBa2-yCu3O6+_x single crystals

E. Brecht, P. Schweiss, and Th. Wolf

Forschungszentrum Karlsruhe, INFP and ITP, P.O. Box 3640, D-76021
Karlsruhe, Germany

A. T. Boothroyd and J. M. Reynolds

Clarendon Laboratory, Oxford OX1 3PU, United Kingdom

N. H. Andersen

Risb National Laboratory, Condensed Matter Physics and Chemistry
Department, P.O. Box 49, DK-4000 Roskilde, Denmark

H. Lutgemeier

Forschungszentage Julich, Institut fur Festkorperforschung 4, P.O. Box
1913, D-52425 Julich, Germany

W. W. Schmahl

Physikalisch-Chemische Mineralogie, Universitat Tubingen,
Wilhelmsstrasse 56, D-72074 Tubingen, Germany

29 December 1997; revised manuscript received 6 July 1998

###### Abstract

The paper describes a study of the antiferromagnetic ordering of
oxygen-deficient Nd1+,Ba2-yCu3O6+_x_ single crystals. In pure,
stoichiometric samples, y = 0, with different oxygen contents x in the
Cu(1) plane (0.02<_x_<0.2), the antiferromagnetic I (AFI) phase appears
to be stable down to 316 mK. The magnetic ordering within the Cu(2)
sublattice of the pure NdBa2Cu3O6+_x_ system is therefore similar to
that of the pure YBa2Cu3O6+_x_ parent compound. With increasing oxygen
content, the Neel temperature drops significantly and the critical
exponent changes from 0.26 for NdBa2Cu3O6.09 to about 0.5 for
NdBa2Cu3O6.23 . Magnetic ordering of the Nd3+ moments sets in at 1.7 K
with a critical wave vector
**q**_x_=($\frac{1}{2}\frac{1}{2}\frac{1}{2}$). Reordering to the AFII
phase is observed in a crystal, which has a significant amount (4

## I Introduction

The NdBa2Cu3O7-_δ_ system has attracted considerable attention due to
its higher superconducting transition temperature _T_c compared with
YBa2Cu3O7-_δ_. _T_c values of up to 96 K, critical current densities of
up to 1.2x105 A/cm2 at 77 K and 2.5 T, and irreversibility fields
exceeding 13 T at 77 K can be achieved,1,2 which move NdBa2Cu3O7-_δ_
into the range of interest for technical applications.

To understand the differences between the superconducting properties of
YBa2Cu3O7-_δ_ and NdBa2Cu3O7-_δ_ it is important to identify any
differences in their magnetic behavior, especially because Nd3+ ions can
possess a magnetic moment while Y3+ ions cannot. A direct consequence of
this is that magnetic ordering of the Nd sublattice occurs at low
temperatures coexistent with superconductivity. Furthermore, previous
investigations of the magnetic structure adopted by the Cu sublattice
seemed to indicate that the magnetic ordering scheme in reduced
NdBa2Cu3O6+_x_ is strictly different from that of YBa2Cu3O6+_x_,3-5 even
though the crystal structure of the two compounds is virtually
identical.

It is well established that pure YBa2Cu3O6+_x_ shows a transition from
the metallic and superconducting phase to the insulating and
antiferromagnetically ordered antiferromagnetic I (AFI) phase upon
successive reduction of the oxygen content x in the basal plane to below
x   0.4.6-8 For 0<_x_ <0.2 the Neel temperature _T_N is slightly above
400 K and almost independent on x. This AFI phase is characterized by
ordering of the moments on the Cu(2) sites within the CuO2 planes
forming antiferromagnetic bilayers, which are separated by the
weak-coupling path along the Cu(1) position occupied exclusively by
nonmagnetic Cu+ for x = 0. The AFI ordering scheme is characterized by a
critical wave vector **q**_x_F_=($\frac{1}{2}\frac{1}{2}0$). An average
_ordered_ moment on the Cu(2) site of 0.55_m_B with a spin orientation
perpendicular to the c axis has been reported in a YBa2Cu3O6.1 crystal,9
while no _ordered_ magnetic moment is present on the Cu(1) sites in the
oxygen-deficient layer. Whereas in very pure YBa2Cu3O6+_x_ crystals the
AFI phase is stable down to lowest temperatures,9 reordering to a second
antiferromagnetic phase AFII with characteristic wave vector
**q**=($\frac{1}{2}\frac{1}{2}\frac{1}{2}$) has been reported in the
doped Y system.3-5,9-22 This AFII phase has a similar antiferromagnetic
arrangement of the spins within the Cu(2) bilayer as the AFI phase, but
alternating AF magnetization of the bilayers stacked along the c axis,
which is thus doubled with respect to the chemical unit cell.13 The AFII
phase was found to occur in YBa2Cu3_(−.2)M_(z)O_(6 + x) doped by
trivalent ions like Al3+,9-11 Co3+,14,15 Fe3+,16-22 or Ga3+,22 which are
known to substitute predominantly onto the Cu(1) sites.23-28

In contrast to the pure Y system, the AFII phase was frequently found in
apparently undoped NdBa2Cu3O6+,3-5 Moudden _et al._4 reported that the
AFII phase covers the whole antiferromagnetic region in their
NdBa2Cu3O6.10 single crystal. Li _et al._5 observed the reordering from
the AFI to the AFII phase at temperatures far below T_(N) with the
reordering temperature T2 depending on the oxygen content x.

One difference between YBa2Cu3O6+,x and NdBa2Cu3O6+ is the fact that
Nd3+ ions can substitute onto the Ba sites under particular preparation
conditions yielding Nd1+,Ba2-Cu3O6+,29-31 Furthermore, as mentioned
above, Nd3+ carries a magnetic moment while Y3+ does not. It has been
speculated that the AFI-→AFII reordering in NdBa2Cu3O6+,x is due to an
_ordering_ of Cu2+ moments within the Cu(1) layer, which is induced by
the substitution of Nd on Ba sites.5 For YBa2Cu3_(−.2)M_(.)O_(6 + x) the
mechanism of reordering has been attributed to frustration of moments on
the Cu(1) sites in the AFI phase.13,15-17 However, the nuclear
quadrupole resonance (NQR) results of Lutgemeier and Heinmaa22
definitely rule out an _ordered_ magnetic moment on Cu(1) sites in
YBa2Cu3_(−.2)M_(z)O_(6 + x) doped by different trivalent cations. The
AFI-→AFII reordering is driven by the magnetic moment of a dopant and
also by isolated Cu2+ moments created by the excess oxygen coordinating
nonmagnetic dopants like Al3+ or Ga3+,9-11,22 Recently, Andersen and
Uimin32 presented a theoretical model that explains the AFI-→AFII
reordering via intermediate turn-angle phases by the formation of free
Cu2+ spins in the Cu(1) basal planes. The free spins may be polarized
and establish an effective ferromagnetic type of coupling between the
adjacent CuO2 layers. It is suggested that trivalent cations on the
Cu(1) site as well as the Ba site may give rise to the free Cu2+ spins.

In the oxygen-deficient NdBa2Cu3O6+,x system it is still unclear if the
reordering to the AFII phase is a general phenomenon or exclusively
results from the Nd3+ ions on Ba sites. Therefore we studied the
structural and magnetic properties of Nd1+,Ba2-Cu3O6+,x single crystals
with stoichiometric composition as well as of crystals with a
significant amount of Nd3+ on Ba sites.

## II Experiment

Very pure, stoichiometric NdBa2Cu3O6+,x single crystals were grown from
a BaO/CuO flux in SnO2 crucibles by the slow-cooling method.33 Powders
of CuO, BaCO3, and Nd2O3 of a purity better than 99.99

The as-grown crystals were annealed in 1-bar flowing oxygen atmosphere
between 873 K and 673 K during 500-660 h. The superconducting transition
of the oxidized samples was found by ac susceptibility at T_(c) = 90.5 K
for the stoichiometric crystals and at 77.5 K for the Nd/Ba-substituted
crystals, both with a width of about 1.5 K. The depression of T_(c) is
attributed to the Nd3+ ions substituted on Ba sites.29-31 Comparing this
T_(c) value to the T_(c) versus y diagrams of Refs. 29-31 suggests a Nd
content on Ba sites of roughly 10

For the diffraction experiment the crystals were reduced using a gas
volumetric technique.34 For the determination of the oxygen content as
well as the structural details, complete nuclear Bragg scattering
single-crystal data sets were collected. The crystal Nd1Ba2Cu3O6.23 was
studied on the TAS2 four-circle diffractometer at the DR3 reactor at
Risk National Laboratory with neutron wavelength l = 1.047 A. Half a
sphere of nuclear Bragg reflections up to sin θl = 0.67 A-1 were
collected in the _th_-2_th_ mode leading to 225 independent
observations. Analysis of the nuclear structural data was performed with
the shelx76 (Ref. 35) refinement program. The other two crystals
NdBa2Cu3O6.09 and Nd(Ba1.92Nd0.08)Cu3O6.17 were measured on the
four-circle diffractometer P110/5C2 at the reactor Orphee, CE-Saclay,36
using neutrons with l = 0.83 A, employing the _o_-scan technique. 908
reflections were collected up to sin θl = 0.75 A-1, resulting in 242
symmetry independent observations. The structural analysis of these data
sets was performed with the Prometheus program package. Numerical
absorption and extinction corrections employing the Becker-Coppens model
for secondary extinction of type I were applied.

Nonpolarized magnetic neutron-diffraction experiments were performed on
the TAS1 triple-axis spectrometer at the DR3 reactor at Risk National
Laboratory using incident neutrons of energy 13.7 meV (l = 2.42 A)
selected by a graphite monochromator. Higher-order neutrons were
depressed by a pyrolytic graphite filter. The crystals were oriented
with their [170] axis vertical, so that the (_hhl_) reflections were in
the horizontal scattering plane. Details of the experimental setup are
the same as those described in Ref. 10. For most of the work a standard
4He cryostat was used for temperatures between 2 K and 300 K. For
temperatures below 2 K, an Oxford Instruments Heliox He3 cryostat was
employed. The studies above room temperature were performed using a
resistively heated furnace.

The NQR spectra were recorded using a standard spin-echo technique with
quadrature detection. The NQR spectra were measured by a frequency
sweep. For measurements at 4.2 K and 1.2 K the crystals were mounted in
an Oxford Instruments CF1200 He cryostat.

## III Results

### Nuclear structure

The significant 48

In contrast, the crystal prepared in 1 bar air shows a refined Ba
occupancy significantly larger than 1. Taking into account the
scattering length of both elements, one finds a Nd content of 4

### Magnetic properties of stoichiometric Nd1Ba2Cu3O6+_x_

In all our reduced stoichiometric Nd1Ba2Cu3O6+_x_ crystals, the spin
system orders into the AFI structure below T_(N), as indicated by
magnetic superlattice peaks with wave vector
**q**_${}_{AFI} = (\frac{1}{2}\frac{1}{2}0)$. The superlattice peaks are
sharp in all directions implying three-dimensional (3D) and long-range
order.

Figure 1 illustrates the temperature dependence of the integrated
intensity of the magnetic ($\frac{1}{2}\frac{1}{2}2$) peak of
Nd1Ba2Cu3O6.09. The transition from the paramagnetic phase to AFI sets
in at T_(N) = 376(1) K. The integrated intensity shows a power-law
behavior _I_ _I_0(T_(N) - _T_)2b with a critical exponent b = 0.25(1),
fitted between 300 K and T_(N). From 11 accessible magnetic superlattice
peaks, the ordered magnetic moment on Cu(2) at 4.2 K was refined to
0.59(5)m_(B), oriented within the (001) plane.

Below about 1.7 K additional magnetic peaks with **q** =
($\frac{1}{2}\frac{1}{2}$) appear. While the intensity of the
($\frac{1}{2}\frac{1}{2}$) peak strongly increases with decreasing
temperature below 1.7 K, the ($\frac{1}{2}\frac{1}{2}$) peak remains
unaffected to within experimental error. Two different origins of **q**
= ($\frac{1}{2}\frac{1}{2}$) ordering are

Table 3: Comparison between the magnetic transitions of the
NdBa₂Cu₃O_(6+_(x)) single crystals with data from literature. Moudden
_et al._ (Ref. [4]) reported that their NdBa₂Cu₃O_(6.10) crystal orders
directly from the paramagnetic state into the AFII phase. The averaged
_ordered_ moments on the Cu(1) and Cu(2) sites have been determined at
different temperatures T_(meas).

Figure 3: Temperature dependence of the integrated intensity of the
($\frac{1}{2}\frac{1}{2}2$) and ($\frac{1}{2}\frac{1}{2}\frac{3}{2}$)
magnetic Bragg peaks for Nd_(1.08)Ba_(1.92)Cu₃O_(6.1). The AFI ordering
sets in at T_(N)= 385 K. The order parameter follows a power law with a
critical exponent β = 0.25(1) . The transition to the turn-angle phase
AFI⊕AFII occurs at T₂ = 95 K. Reordering to the AFII phase is completed
at 35 K.

Figure 2: Temperature dependence of the integrated intensity of the
($\frac{1}{2}\frac{1}{2}2$) Bragg peaks for NdBa₂Cu₃O_(6.23). The
transition from the paramagnetic phase to the AFI phase occurs at 289 K.
Although the AFI order parameter decreases below 70 K with decreasing
temperature, no ($h+\frac{1}{2}\frac{1}{2}\frac{1}{2}$) peaks occur down
to 2 K, excluding the presence of the AFII phase.

the structure. Consequently, the Nd³⁺ ions are able to enter the Ba
sites only if the oxygen partial pressure is high enough during growth.
Excess oxygen in the basal layer is also reflected by the observed
orthorhombic-tetragonal phase transition with increasing amount of Nd on
Ba sites.^(5,)[5, 30] The smaller ionic size of Y³⁺ (89.2 pm) (Ref.
[48]) compared to Nd³⁺ (99.5 pm) may explain, why the former does not
substitute for Ba²⁺ (136 pm) in YBa₂Cu₃O_(6 + x).

In both stoichiometric Nd_(1.00)Ba_(1.25)Cu₃O_(6 + x) crystals
investigated here, the spin system orders from the paramagnetic state to
the AFI or **q**=($\frac{1}{2}\frac{1}{2}0$) structure, and the AFI
arrangement is stable to lowest temperatures forming the magnetic ground
state with respect to the Cu spin system, which is complemented by
**q**=($\frac{1}{2}\frac{1}{2}\frac{1}{2}$) ordering of the Nd³⁺
moments. T_(N) is slightly depressed compared to the YBa₂Cu₃O_(6 + x)
compound: while we find T_(N) = 376 K for x = 0.09 and 289 K for x =
0.23, respectively, the expected T_(N) values are about 410 K and 380 K
for YBa₂Cu₃O_(6 + x) with the same values of x.⁴⁶ The smaller T_(N) may
be due to the slightly larger cell of Nd_(1.00)Ba₂Cu₃O_(6 + x) compared
to YBa₂Cu₃O_(6 + x) at the same x, which reduces the coupling of the
Cu²⁺ moments between the antiferromagnetic Cu(2) bilayers. Moreover, a
lowering of T_(N) is expected because the tendency for the oxygen to
order in chains and thereby to dope the Cu(2) layers with charge
carriers is smaller in Nd_(1.00)Ba₂Cu₃O_(6 + x) than in
YBa₂Cu₃O_(6 + x).^(49, 50)

While the AFI ground-state ordering of the Cu²⁺ moments in
stoichiometric NdBa₂Cu₃O_(6 + x) is similar to that of pure
YBa₂Cu₃O_(6 + x) crystals, the slight Nd/Ba substitution in our
Nd(Ba_(1.00)Sr_(0.00))Cu₃O₆ ₊ ₇ crystal induces reordering to the AFII
phase via the turn-angle phase, setting in at T = 95 K. This magnetic
reordering, in turn, is similar to that occurring in M³⁺
(=Co³⁺,Fe³⁺,Al³⁺, ...)-doped YBa₂Cu₃O_(6 + x).^(99 − 11, 14 − 22)

AFII ordering has been reported in nominally stoichiometric
NdBa₂Cu₃O_(6 + x),³ ⁻ ⁵ and it has been suggested that AFII ordering is
an intrinsic property of the NdBa₂Cu₃O_(6 + x) compound. Li _et al.⁵_
explained the AFI↔AFII reordering in their Nd_(1.00)Ba₂Cu₃O_(6 + x)
single crystals with an ordering of moments within the Cu(1) layer,
which in their opinion are created by substitution on either the Cu(1)
sites or the Ba sites. However, in our refinement of the AFII structure
we did not observe any _ordered_ magnetic moment on Cu(1) sites within
experimental error. Furthermore, our NQR measurements also exclude an
_ordered_ magnetic moment on Cu(1) sites.

On the other hand we have strong indications that the AFI↔AFII
reordering is related to the Nd³⁺ ions substituted on Ba²⁺ sites. Since
the reordering temperature T 2 for Nd_(1.00)Ba_(1.92)Cu₃O₆ ₊ ₇ is
relatively high, the magnetic effect of Nd³⁺ on the Ba site is very
large. There are two possibilities to explain how the Nd³⁺ ions on Ba
sites may induce the AFII ordering. The first possibility is the
magnetic moment of the Nd³⁺ ions themselves. It is quite conceivable
that the Nd³⁺ ions on the Ba sites may couple magnetically to the
moments on Cu(2) sites, resulting in an effective ferromagnetic coupling
of the adjacent Cu(2) layers, and thus precipitating AFII ordering.
However, the coupling mechanism itself not is at all obvious.

The other possible mechanism is related to the creation of free spins
within the Cu(1) layer by the excess oxygen, which is introduced at the
O(4) site to charge balance the Nd³⁺ substituted for Ba²⁺ (cf. Fig. 5).
This balance requires one negative elementary charge. The second
elementary charge on the O²⁻ is balanced by the oxidation of one
neighboring Cu⁺ on a Cu(1) site, creating a Cu²⁺ with a free spin. If
these local moments couple magnetically to the moments on neighboring
Cu(2) sites, there will be an effective ferromagnetic coupling between
the adjacent antiferromagnetic

Figure 4: Cu(1) NQR spectrum of Nd_(1.00)Ba_(1.92)Cu₃O_(6.17) at 4.2 K
indicating Zeeman splitting of the NQR lines of the two isotopes. The
Zeeman splitting reveals a hyperfine field at the Cu(1) site and thus
indicates the presence of the AFII phase. For Nd_(1.00)Ba₂Cu₃O_(6 + x)
and Nd_(1.00)Ba₂Cu₃O_(6.22), there is no Zeeman splitting, while the
lines are equally sharp.

Figure 5: Crystallographic and magnetic structure of
Nd_(1.00)Ba₂Cu₃O_(6 + x) and Nd_(1.15)Ba_(2.75)Cu₃O_(6 + x). In the
stoichiometric compound the AFI phase exists. In the Nd/Ba-substituted
compound, from charge balance considerations substitution of Ba²⁺ by
Nd³⁺ results in one O²⁻ ion built in at the O(4) site, which oxidizes
one of its Cu(1) neighbors to Cu²⁺. The associated free spin within the
Cu(1) layer establishes an effective ferromagnetic coupling that
frustrates the arrangement of spins on Cu(2) sites in the AFI phase and
thus induces the reordering to the AFII phase.

Cu(2) layers, which triggers the reordering to the AFII phase. This
postulated mechanism for the Nd compound is very similar to that
postulated for the Al-doped system,[10, 11] and has also been treated in
the theoretical work by Andersen and Uimin.[32] Note that in pure,
stoichiometric Nd₁Ba₂Cu₃O_(6 + x) or YBa₂Cu₃O_(6 + x) the excess oxygen
on the O(4) site oxidizes _two_ neighboring Cu⁺ to Cu²⁺ that are
spin-paired by super-exchange, and thus no free spins are created.

Although we are suggesting a similar mechanism for the reordering, it
must be borne in mind that the T2 values observed in the
Nd_(1 + y)Ba_(2 − y)Cu₃O_(6 + x) system are much higher than those of
the Al-doped YBa₂Cu_(3 − x)Al_(x)O_(6 + x) system. While the onset of
AFII order induced by Al³⁺-doping ever exceeds 25 K,[10, 11]T₂ values
reported for nominally stoichiometric NdBa₂Cu₃O_(6 + x) scatter between
0 and 80 K (Table III) and Moudden _et al.[4]_ even found a transition
from the paramagnetic phase directly into the AFII phase at 385 K for
their nominal NdBa₂Cu₃O_(6 + x). While the large values and also the
large scatter in T2 are quite unlikely due to M³⁺ contamination, we
believe that the methods employed by these authors to determine the
elemental composition of their crystals are not sensitive enough to
detect a small Nd/Ba nonstoichiometry,[51] to which we attribute the
AFII ordering. Further, we believe that the distribution of the free
spins on Cu²⁺ ions within the Cu(1) layer has a significant influence on
T2.[10, 28] For Nd_(1 + y)Ba_(2 − y)Cu₃O_(6 + x) variations in the
growth procedure are likely to produce differences in the distribution
of Nd³⁺ ions on Ba²⁺ sites, which in turn may have a strong influence on
the stabilization of the AFII phase. If two neighboring Ba sites within
the (001) plane are substituted by Nd³⁺, the amount of free spins in the
Cu(1) layer and thus T2 is expected to be lower than in the case of
randomly distributed, isolated Nd³⁺ ions. Indeed, Kramer _et al.[31]_
recently reported that also the superconducting transition temperature
_T_c strongly depends on the degree of Nd³⁺ pairing and that the width
of the transition reflects the uniformity of the distribution.

Lutgemeier[21] found in his studies on YBa₂Cu_(3 − x)Fe_(x)O_(6 + x)
ceramics, that the AFII ordering is suppressed by an excess of oxygen in
the Cu(1) layer. As such a mechanism could also have suppressed AFII
order in the undoped, stoichiometric crystals with x = 0.09 and x = 0.23
studied here, we reduced another crystal of the same batch under
conditions to get the oxygen content as low as possible. The reduction
was performed at 800 degC at an oxygen pressure of 2.8 × 10⁻⁴ bars, for
which, according to the oxygen isotherms published by Lee _et al.[52]_,
the oxygen content should be approximately x = 0.04. From the intensity
of the 24 MHz NQR line, which is directly related to threefold
coordinated Cu(1) ions,[50] i.e., to Cu ions with one neighboring O²⁻
ion within the Cu(1) layer, we estimated the oxygen content x within the
Cu(1) layer for that crystal as less than 0.02. Furthermore, at 1.2 K
the Cu-NQR spectrum between 27 MHz and 31 MHz gave extremely sharp lines
for both isotopes without any sign of Zeeman splitting, implying that
the AFI phase is present. Therefore, we conclude that in the pure,
stoichiometric Nd compound, the AFI ordering scheme of the Cu moments is
stable down to lowest temperature and, supplemented by ordering of the
Nd³⁺ spins, forms the ground-state phase. This means that the magnetic
ordering of the Cu moments in the stoichiometric Nd system is very
similar to that of pure, oxygen-deficient YBa₂Cu₃O_(6 + x).

## V Concluding Summary

We have demonstrated that Nd/Ba-substituted
Nd_(1 + y)Ba_(2 − y)Cu₃O_(6 + x) crystals are obtained when growth takes
place under oxidizing conditions, while a reduced oxygen fugacity leads
to stoichiometric NdBa₂Cu₃O_(6 + x). Magnetic ordering in the reduced
pure stoichiometric Nd_(1 + y)Ba_(2 − y)Cu₃O_(6 + x) system occurs from
the paramagnetic state to the antiferromagnetic AFI structure of the
Cu²⁺ moments, which remains the stable configuration down to lowest
temperatures, where it is supplemented by
**q_(Nd)**(=($\frac{1}{2}\frac{1}{2}\frac{1}{2}$)) ordering of the Nd³⁺
moments below 1.7 K. The nonstoichiometric
Nd_(1 + y)Ba_(2 − y)Cu₃O_(6 + x) system, however, shows a reordering
from the AFI to the antiferromagnetic AFII phase via the intermediate
turn-angle phase AFI⊕AFII below T2 = 95 K. We attribute the AFI↪AFII
reordering in Nd_(1 + y)Ba_(2 − y)Cu₃O_(6 + x) to the creation of
_isolated_ magnetic Cu²⁺ ions within the Cu(1) layer, which are formed
by the one excess O²⁻ ion for each Nd³⁺ ion substituted for Ba²⁺.
Coupling of these free Cu²⁺ spins to the moments on the neighboring
Cu(2) layers results in an effective ferromagnetic coupling between the
adjacent antiferromagnetic Cu(2)O₂ layers, which forces the AFII
reordering via an intermediate turn-angle phase upon decreasing
temperature. The suggested mechanism is similar to that proposed for the
Al-doped YBa₂Cu_(3 − x)Al,O_(6 + x) system.[10, 11, 32] The higher
reordering temperature T2 and thus the larger coupling strength in the
Nd_(1 + y)Ba_(2 − y)Cu₃O_(6 + x) system compared to
YBa₂Cu_(3 − x)Al_(x)O_(6 + x) may indicate a more random distribution of
Cu²⁺ ions within the Cu(1) layer. An alternative or additional
ferromagnetic coupling via the Nd³⁺ moments on Ba sites also cannot be
ruled out. Since the AFI↪AFII reordering is induced already by a small
amount of Nd³⁺ on Ba sites, we suggest that the observation of the
magnetic reordering can be used as a sensitive probe to detect Nd³⁺ on
Ba sites. Apart from the Nd³⁺ magnetic ordering, however, the pure,
stoichiometric Nd compound shows very similar magnetic AFI ordering as
the pure Y compound.

## Acknowledgments

We would like to thank P. Schatzle for performing the WDX analysis, J.
Hanssmann for simulating Rutherford backscattering spectra with his
program trim, and A. Egorov for additional NQR studies. The
neutron-scattering experiments reported in this paper were performed at
the DR3 reactor at Rise National Laboratory and supported by the
Commission of the European Community through the Large Installation
Plan. E.B. and W.W.S. gratefully acknowledge the Deutsche
Forschungsgemeinschaft (DFG) for financial support.

* [5] Deceased. * [6] Author to whom correspondence should be addressed.
Electronic address: wolfgang.schmahl@ruhr-uni-bochum.de * [7] Th. Wolf,
A.-C. Bornarel, H. Kupfer, R. Meier-Hirmer, and B. Obst, Phys. Rev. B
**56**, 6308 (1997). * [8] Th. Wolf, H. Kupfer, and H. Wuhl, in
_Proceedings of the 8th International Workshop on Critical Currents in
Superconductors, Kitakyushu, Japan, 1996_, edited by T. Matshushita and
K. Yamafuji (World Scientific, Singapore, 1996), p. 411. * [9] J. W.
Lynn, W. H. Li, H. A. Mook, B. C. Sales, and Z. Fisk, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**60**, 2781 (1988). * [10] A. H. Moudden, G. Shirane, J. M. Tranquada,
R. J. Birgeneau, Y. Endoh, K. Yamada, Y. Hidaka, and T. Murakami, Phys.
Rev. B **38**, 8720 (1988). * [11] W. H. Li, J. W. Lynn, and Z. Fisk,
Phys. Rev. B **41**, 4098 (1990). * [12] J. M. Tranquada, A. H. Moudden,
A. I. Goldman, P. Zolliker, D. E. Cox, G. Shirane, S. K. Sinha, D.
Vaknin, D. C. Johnston, M. S. Alvarez, A. J. Jacobson, J. T.
Lewandowski, and J. M. Newsam, Phys. Rev. B **38**, 2477 (1988). * [13]
P. Burlet, C. Vettier, M. J. G. M. Jurgens, J. Y. Henry, J.
Rossat-Mignod, H. Noel, M. Potel, P. Gougeon, and J. C. Levet, Physica C
**153-155**, 1115 (1988). * [14] J. Rossat-Mignod, L. P. Regnault, C.
Vettier, P. Burlet, J. Y. Henry, and G. Lapertot, Physica B **169**, 58
(1991); J. Rossat-Mignod, L. P. Regnault, P. Bourges, P. Burlet, C.
Vettier, and J. Y. Henry, _ibid._**192**, 109 (1993). * [15] H. Casalta,
P. Schleger, E. Brecht, W. Montfrooij, N. H. Andersen, B. Lebech, W. W.
Schmahl, H. Fuess, Ruixing Liang, W. N. Hardy, and Th. Wolf, Phys. Rev.
B **50**, 9688 (1994). * [16] E. Brecht, W. W. Schmahl, H. Fuess, H.
Casalta, P. Schleger, B. Lebech, N. H. Andersen, and Th. Wolf, Phys.
Rev. B **52**, 9601 (1995). * [17] E. Brecht, W. W. Schmahl, H. Fuess,
S. Schmenn, H. Lutgemeier, N. H. Andersen, B. Lebech, and Th. Wolf,
Phys. Rev. B **56**, 940 (1997). * [18] S. Shamoto, M. Sato, J. M.
Tranquada, B. J. Sternlieb, and G. Shirane, Phys. Rev. B **48**, 13 817
(1993). * [19] H. Kadowaki, M. Nishi, Y. Yamada, H. Takeya, H. Takei, S.
M. Shapiro, and G. Shirane, Phys. Rev. B **37**, 7932 (1988). * [20] P.
Zolliker, D. E. Cox, J. M. Tranquada, and G. Shirane, Phys. Rev. B
**38**, 6575 (1988). * [21] P. F. Miceli, J. M. Tarascon, L. H. Greene,
P. Barboux, M. Giroud, D. A. Neumann, J. J. Rhyne, L. F. Schneemeyer,
and J. V. Waszczak, Phys. Rev. B **38**, 9209 (1988); P. F. Miceli, J.
M. Tarascon, P. Barboux, L. H. Greene, B. G. Bagley, G. W. Hull, M.
Giroud, J. J. Rhyne, and D. A. Neumann, _ibid._**39**, 12 375 (1989). *
[22] J. L. Garcia-Munoz, J. Rodriguez-Carvajal, S. H. Kilcoyne, C. J.
Boardman, and R. Cywinski, J. Magn. Magn. Mater. **104-107**, 555
(1992); J. L. Garcia-Munoz, R. Cywinski, S. H. Kilcoyne, and X.
Obradors, Physica C **233**, 85 (1994). * [23] I. Mirebeau, C.
Bellouard, M. Hennion, G. Jehanno, V. Caignaert, A. J. Dianoux, T. E.
Philips, and K. Moorjani, Physica C **184**, 299 (1991); I. Mirebeau, C.
Bellouard, M. Hennion, V. Caignaert, and E. Suard, J. Appl. Phys.
**73**, 5689 (1993); I. Mirebeau, E. Suard, V. Caignaert, and F. Bouree,
Phys. Rev. B **50**, 3230 (1994). * [24] D. Hechel, I. Nowik, E. R.
Bauminger, and I. Felner, Phys. Rev. B **42**, 2166 (1990). * [25] I. S.
Lyubutin, V. G. Terziev, S. V. Luchko, A. Ya. Shapiro, A. M. Balagurov,
and G. A. Bonch-Osmolovskiy, Physica C **199**, 296 (1992); I. S.
Lyubutin, V. G. Terziev, T. V. Dmitrieva, S. V. Luchko, and A. Ya.
Shapiro, Solid State Commun. **86**, 651 (1993). * [26] R. A. Brand, Ch.
Sauer, H. Lutgemeier, and P. M. Meufels, Hyperfine Interact. **55**,
1229 (1990). * [27] H. Lutgemeier, Hyperfine Interact. **61**, 1051
(1990). * [28] H. Lutgemeier and I. Heinmaa, in _Proceedings of the XXVI
Zakopane School on Physics, Zakopane, 1991_, edited by J. Stanek and A.
T. Pedziwiatr (World Scientific, Singapore, 1991), p. 264; H. Lutgemeier
and I. Heinmaa, in _Proceedings of the Workshop on Phase Separation in
Cuprate Superconductors, Erice, 1992_, edited by K. A. Muller and G.
Benedek (World Scientific, Singapore, 1992), p. 243. * [29] J. M.
Tarascon, P. Barboux, P. F. Miceli, L. H. Greene, G. W. Hull, M.
Eibschutz, and S. A. Sunshine, Phys. Rev. B **37**, 7458 (1988). * [30]
Y. Xu, M. Suenaga, J. Tafto, R. L. Sabatini, and A. R. Moodenbaugh,
Phys. Rev. B **39**, 6667 (1989); Y. Xu, R. L. Sabatini, A. R.
Moodenbaugh, Y. Zhu, S. G. Shyu, M. Suenaga, K. W. Dennis, and R. W.
McCallum, Physica C **169**, 205 (1990). * [31] W. W. Schmahl, A.
Putnis, E. Salje, P. Freeman, A. Graeme-Barber, R. Jones, K. K. Singh,
J. Blunt, P. P. Edwards, J. Loram, and K. Mirza, Philos. Mag. Lett.
**60**, 241 (1989). * [32] R. Sonntag, D. Hohlwein, A. Hoser, W. Prandl,
W. Schafer, R. Kiemel, S. Kemmler-Sack, S. Losch, M. Schlichenmaier, and
A. W. Hewat, Physica C **159**, 141 (1989). * [33] T. Siegrist, L. F.
Schneemeyer, J. V. Waszczak, N. P. Singh, R. L. Opila, B. Batlogg, L. W.
Rupp, and D. W. Murphy, Phys. Rev. B **36**, 8365 (1987). * [34] E.
Brecht, W. W. Schmahl, M. Rodewald, G. Miehe, H. Fuess, N. H. Andersen,
J. Hanssmann, and Th. Wolf, Physica C **265**, 53 (1996). * [35] S. Li,
E. A. Hayri, K. V. Ramanujachary, and M. Greenblatt, Phys. Rev. B
**38**, 2450 (1988). * [36] K. K. Singh, D. E. Morris, and A. P. B.
Sinha, Physica C **224**, 231 (1994). * [37] M. J. Kramer, S. I. Yoo, R.
W. McCallum, W. B. Yelon, H. Xie, and P. Allenspach, Physica C **219**,
145 (1994). * [38] N. H. Andersen and G. Uimin, Phys. Rev. B **56**, 10
840 (1997). * [39] Th. Wolf, W. Goldacker, B. Obst, G. Roth, and R.
Fluikiger, J. Cryst. Growth **96**, 1010 (1989). * [40] N. H. Andersen,
B. Lebech, and H. F. Poulsen, Physica C **172**, 31 (1990). * [41] G. M.
Sheldrick, computer code shellx76, University of Cambridge, England,
1976. * [42] Laboratoire commun CEA-CNRS. * [43] V. F. Sears, Neutron
News **3**, 29 (1992). * [44] P. Schweiss (unpublished). * [45] P.
Sch$\ddot{\rm a}$l$\ddot{\rm a}$ne (unpublished). * [46] T. W. Clinton,
J. W. Lynn, J. Z. Liu, Y. X. Jia, T. J. Goodwin, R. N. Shelton, B. W.
Lee, M. Buchgeister, M. B. Maple, and J. L. Peng, Phys. Rev. B **51**,
15 429 (1995). * [47] H. D$\ddot{\rm o}$ssler, H.-D. Jorstrandt, J.
Harnischmacher, J. Kalenborn, U. Walter, A. Severing, W. Schlabitz, and
E. Holland-Moritz, Z. Phys. B **100**, 1 (1996). * [48] K. Nehrke and M.
W. Pieper, Phys. Rev. B **51**, 12 618 (1995); K. Nehrke, M. W. Pieper,
and T. Wolf, _ibid._**32**, 229 (1996). * [49] A. Longmore, A. T.
Boothroyd, C. Changkang, H. Yongle, M. P. Nutley, N. H. Andersen, H.
Casalta, P. Schleger, and A. N. Christensen, Phys. Rev. B **53**, 9382
(1996). * [50] A. T. Boothroyd, A. Longmore, N. H. Andersen, E. Brecht,
and Th. Wolf, Phys. Rev. Lett. **78**, 130 (1997). * [45] A. T.
Boothroyd, J. M. Reynolds, E. Brecht, N. H. Andersen, and Th. Wolf
(unpublished). * [46] J. Rossat-Mignod, P. Burlet, M. J. Jurgens, C.
Vettier, L. P. Regnault, J. Y. Henry, C. Ayache, L. Foro, H. Noel, M.
Potel, P. Gougeon, and J. C. Levet, J. Phys. (Paris), Colloq. **49**,
C-8, 2119 (1988). * [47] I. Ya. Korenblit and A. Aharony, Phys. Rev. B
**49**, 13 291 (1994). * [48] R. D. Shannon and C. T. Prewitt, Acta
Crystallogr., Sect. B: Struct. Crystallogr. Cryst. Chem. **B25**, 925
(1969). * [49] H. Shaked, B. W. Veal, J. Faber, Jr., R. L. Hitterman, U.
Balachandran, G. Tomlins, H. Shi, L. Morss, and A. P. Paulikas, Phys.
Rev. B **41**, 4173 (1990). * [50] H. Lutgemeier, S. Schmenn, and I.
Heinmaa, J. Low Temp. Phys. **105**, 693 (1996). * [51] Due to the
well-known influence of magnetic M³⁺ dopants in the YBa₂Cu₃O_(6 + x)
system, the possibility of contamination by impure chemicals or by
crucible corrosion may be considered as the origin of the T₂ differences
of nominally NdBa₂Cu₃O_(6 + x) crystals (Table III). However, to explain
the high-T₂ values of the NdBa₂Cu₃O_(6 + x) in Refs. [4] and [5], a Fe
contamination of y_(>)0.06 would be necessary according to the z-T₂
phase diagrams of Mirebeau _et al._ (Ref. [17]) and Lyubutin _et al._
(Ref. [19]). Such a degree of contamination with Fe³⁺ or Co³⁺ would have
been easily detected by the electron-probe microanalysis and Rutherford
backscattering employed by these authors. However, the precision in
determining the Nd/Ba ratio by microprobe techniques requires excellent
standards and is hampered by an overlap of the K lines of Nd and Ba, so
that the weaker L lines have to be taken. The Rutherford backscattering
edges of Nd and Ba can be separated only with difficulties, as the
difference in atomic mass is only about 5 * [52] D. N. Lee and B. J.
Lee, J. Am. Ceram. Soc. **76**, 1609 (1993).
