Evolution of the phase diagram of LaFeP_(1 − x)As_(x)O_(1 − y)F_(y) (y =
0-0.1)

K. T. Lai,¹ A. Takemori,¹ S. Miyasaka,^(1,)1,^(*) F. Engetsu,² H.
Mukuda,² and S. Tajima¹

¹Department of Physics, Osaka University, Osaka 560-0043, Japan

²Graduate School of Engineering Science, Osaka University, Osaka
560-8531, Japan

Footnote 1: miyasaka@phys.sci.osaka-u.ac.jp

Received 3 June 2014; revised manuscript received 26 July 2014;
published 11 August 2014

###### Abstract

P/As substitution effects on the transport properties of polycrystalline
LaFeP_(1 − x)As_(x)O_(1 − y)F_(y) with x = 0-1.0 and y = 0-0.1 have been
studied. In the F-free samples (y = 0), a superconducting (SC) dome with
a maximum T_(c) of 12 K is observed around x = 0-0.3. This is separated
from another SC dome with T_(c)∼ 10 K at x = 0.6-0.8 by an
antiferromagnetic region (x = 0.3-0.6), giving a two-dome feature in the
T_(c) − x phase diagram. As y increases, the two SC domes merge
together, changing to a double-peak structure at y = 0.05 and a single
dome at y = 0.1. This proves the presence of two different Fermi surface
states in this system.

doi:10.1103/PhysRevB.90.064504

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.90.064504

## I Introduction

Since the discovery of iron-based superconductors, one of the focuses is
to find a unified picture of the electronic state among various kinds of
iron-based superconductors. It has been revealed that the suppression of
spin density wave (SDW) in their parent compounds is important to induce
high-T_(c) superconductivity (SC) in most three cases. For example,
hole-doped (Ba,K)Fe₂As₂[1], electron-doped Ba(Fe,Co)₂As₂[2], and
isovalent-element-doped BaFe₂(As,P)₂[3] share a similar phase diagram
which shows the transition from SDW to SC state upon doping. This
similarity suggests that the spin fluctuation (SF) near a quantum
critical point (QCP) is a possible candidate for the pairing force of
Cooper pairs. In LaFeAsO, however, the phase diagram is much more
complicated. For example, in LaFeAs(O,H) [4, 5], as H content increases
after the suppression of SDW, two SC regions have been observed in the
phase diagram, as well as the reappearance of an antiferromagnetic (AFM)
phase in the overdoped region. The origin of these interesting behaviors
has been argued in relation to SF or orbital fluctuations [5, 6, 7, 8,
9].

On the other hand, LaFePO is known as a superconductor with T_(c)∼ 5 K
without any trace of SDW [10, 11]. Introducing electrons by F
substitution cannot change T_(c) significantly [12]. The striking
difference between the properties of the two parent compounds LaFeAsO
and LaFePO raises a question about its origin and the relation to SC.
Experimental observations [13, 14, 15, 16, 17] and theoretical
calculations [18, 19, 20, 21, 22] have shown that the Fermi surface (FS)
topologies of LaFeAsO and LaFePO are different, mainly in one of the
hole pockets. In particular, the two-dimensional (2D) FS exists in
LaFeAsO around the X point, while the three-dimensional (3D) FS around
the Z point exists in LaFePO. The difference in the resulting FS nesting
may be related to the different SC behaviors.

P/As substitution in LaFe(As,P)O provides a platform for studying the
relationship among SC, AFM, and corresponding FS nesting. A study of
LaFe(As,P)O in P doping level from 0

In our previous work, we have also studied the P/As substitution effect
in the same system but for 10

As described above, LaFePO and LaFeAsO systems have different FS states
because of the existence of a d_(Z¹) or d_(X², Y²) band near the Fermi
level. The P/As substitution causes the exchange of the energy level of
the d_(Z²)/d_(X², Y²) band. Consequently, our previous results show the
anomalous behaviors, suggesting that RFeP_(1 − x)As_(x)O_(0.9)F_(0.1) (R
= La, Pr, and Nd) has the Fe-type FS below x∼ 0.6, while the samples of
x = 1.0 have FeAs-type FS. However, the evidence of our scenario (two FS
states and the band crossover around x = 0.6) was weak.

In this study, we have extended our previous work to lower F content (y
= 0 and 0.05). The transport properties for
LaFeP_(1 − x)As_(x)O_(1 − y)F_(y) with y = 0 and 0.05 have been mainly
studied, and we have tried to clarify the phase diagram, which provides
further evidence for the presence of two electronic states originating
from the two different FS topologies and their crossover.

## II Experimental Methods and Sample Characterization

Polycrystalline LaFeP_(1 − x)As_(x)O_(1 − y)F_(y) with nominal x = 0-1
and y = 0, 0.05 were synthesized by a solid-state reaction method. The
precursors LaAs/LaP, Fe₂O₃, Fe, and LaF₃ were mixed and pressed into
pellets. The pellets were sealed in evacuated quartz tubes and heated at
1100 degC for 40 h. All the above processes except heating were
performed in a glove box with pure Ar environment.

The crystal structure was characterized by powder x-ray diffraction with
the source of Cu K_(α) radiation at room temperature. Magnetic
susceptibility measurements were performed in a Quantum Design Magnetic
Property Measurement System (MPMS) with an applied field of 10 Oe. The
electrical resistivity was measured by a standard four-probe method.
Hall effect measurements were performed in the magnetic field up to 7 T.
R_(H) was obtained from Hall resistivity, which showed linear dependence
on the magnetic applied field. The ³¹P-NMR spectra in the AFM phase were
measured by sweeping the magnetic field to determine the transition
temperature T_(N)[29].

The typical powder x-ray diffraction patterns for y = 0.05 are shown in
Fig. 1. Almost all the Bragg peaks observed in the diffraction patterns
are able to be assigned within the tetragonal P4/nmm symmetry. Note that
a minor impurity peak of LaOF is found in some samples. The
corresponding lattice constants a and c for the samples of y = 0 and
0.05 are calculated by the least-squares fitting of the Bragg peaks and
the data is plotted in Fig. 2. Both samples for y = 0 and 0.05 show a
linear increase in a and c with increasing As content x. This linear
change of lattice constants indicates that the As/P solution compounds
are successfully prepared.

In order to determine the actual As and F concentrations, we performed
the energy-dispersive x-ray spectroscopy (EDX) measurements. The result
of EDX indicates that the actual As concentration is the same as the
nominal one (x) in all the samples. On the other hand, we are not able
to estimate the actual F concentration by EDX measurements, because
there are peaks for La and Fe near the peak for F in the EDX spectrum.
With increasing the nominal F concentration y, however, the lattice
constants a and c continuously decrease. (Please see Fig. 2 and Ref.
[27].) In the previous report, we have roughly estimated the actual F
concentration of ∼0.03-0.04 in the samples with the nominal F
concentration y = 0.1[27]. Assuming that the lattice constants depend
linearly on the actual F concentration, the actual F concentration is
about 0.01 in the samples with nominal F concentration of y = 0.05. In
short, we can determine the actual As concentration and not the actual F
concentration by EDX measurements. For convenience, we use the nominal F
concentration (y = 0 and 0.05) in this paper.

## III Results and Discussion

Figure 3 shows the T dependence of magnetic susceptibility for the y = 0
and 0.05 samples. The SC transition can be observed in all the samples
of y = 0.05, and the samples of y = 0 with x = 0-0.25, 0.7, and 0.8.
Note that the

Figure 1: (Color online) The x-ray diffraction patterns of
LaFeP_(1 − x)As_(x)O_(0.95)F_(0.05) (x = 0, 0.4, 0.6, and 1.0). Almost
all the peaks are able to be indexed assuming the P4/nmm tetragonal
symmetry.

Figure 3: (Color online) The temperature dependence of magnetic
susceptibility of (a) LaFeP_(1 − x)As_(x)O and (b)
LaFeP_(1 − x)As_(x)O_(0.95)F_(0.05).

Figure 2: The x dependence of the lattice constants a and c of (a)
LaFeP_(1 − x)As_(x)O and (b) LaFeP_(1 − x)As_(x)O_(0.95)F_(0.05).

superconducting volume fraction of the samples of x = 0.7 and 0.8 for
y = 0 is much smaller than the other SC samples.

Figure 4 shows the T dependence of resistivity ρ(T) for the y = 0 and
0.05 samples. The SC transition can be observed in all the SC samples
identified in the magnetic susceptibility measurement. In the y = 0
samples, the anomalous upturn in ρ(T) is observed for x = 0.8-1 due to
the SDW transition, which determines T_(N). The x = 0.3-0.6 samples
seemingly behave as normal metals, but the x = 0.5 sample shows an
upturn at low T (<50 K), which may be related to the recently reported
AFM phase [24]. Actually we observe the broadening of NMR spectra at
x = 0.3-0.6, which indicates the existence of AFM ordering [29]. We
suppose that the behaviors of resistivity obtained in these crystalline
samples are dominated mainly by the _ab_-plane resistivity ρ_(ab) due to
the large ratio of the c-axis resistivity ρ_(c) to ρ_(ab). In fact, the
large anisotropy ratio ρ_(c)/ρ_(ab) (∼20-200) was reported by
resistivity measurements of single-crystalline LaFeAsO [30].

T_(c) and T_(N) of all the samples for y = 0 are summarized in Fig.
5(a). For y = 0, two SC domes and two AFM phases are observed in the
phase diagram. The values of T_(c) at x = 0.6-0.8 (SC1 dome) are
consistent with the previous study [23]. The other SC dome at x = 0-0.3
(SC2 dome) is found in the present study. The maximum T_(c) of the SC2
dome is slightly higher (∼12 K) than that of the SC1 dome. Between the
two SC domes, an AFM order (AFM2 phase) is detected via the NMR
technique [24,29], with T_(N) ranging from ∼15 to 35 K. Another AFM
phase (AFM1 phase) is also observed above x = 0.8 through ρ(T) and NMR
[24]. Here the AFM order is accompanied with a structural phase
transition. The values of T_(N), between ∼50 and 140 K, in the AFM1
phase are much higher than those in the AFM2 phase.

Figure 5(b) shows the x dependence of T_(c) for y = 0.05. A local
minimum of T_(c)(x) is found around x = 0.6, giving a double-peak
structure. If we further increase y to 0.1 [27], as illustrated in Fig.
5(c), only a single peak is observed at x = 0.6. These results suggest
that the two SC domes found at y = 0 merge with each other when y
increases.

The exponent n of ρ(T) is determined by fitting the data with
ρ(T) = ρ₀ + AT^(n), where ρ₀ is the residual resistivity and A is the
slope of ρ(T). The range of fitting is between T just above T_(c) and
∼100 K. As shown in Fig. 5(d), for the series of y = 0, n changes
gradually from 2 to 1 when x increases to 0.7. Note that the data of
x = 0.5, 0.8-1.0 are not suitable for fitting because of the upturn at
low T. Roughly speaking, the value of n is close to 2 in the SC2 dome
while it is ∼1 in the SC1 dome, suggesting that the behavior of ρ(T)
near the SC2 dome is described as a Fermi liquid (FL) while that near
the SC1 dome is non-FL. Since the x = 0.7 sample is near the boundary of
the SDW phase, the gradual decrease in n with increasing x suggests the
existence of a QCP around x = 0.7. This point of view is consistent with
the previous theoretical prediction [31]. It is rather surprising that
the AFM

Figure 4: (Color online) The temperature dependence of the electrical
resistivity of (a) LaFeP_(1, x)As_(x)O and (b)
LaFeP_(1, y)As_(y)O_(0.95)F_(0.05) with various values of x,
respectively.

order observed in NMR does not seriously affect the behaviors in
resistivity.

For both series of y = 0.05 and 0.1, the value of n approaches 1 at
around x = 0.6, and 2 at x = 0 for both series of y = 0.05 and 0.1. This
indicates that both systems exhibit non-FL behavior at around x = 0.6,
while they behave as FL at around x = 0.

Since the Hall coefficient R_(H) is sensitive to the change of
electronic states, it has also been measured for LaFeP_(1.x)As_(x)O.
Figure 6(a) illustrates T dependence of R_(H) for the series of y = 0.
For x = 0 and 0.2, |R_(H)| is very small and almost T independent, which
is consistent with the FL picture suggested by the measurements of
resistivity. When x exceeds 0.3, R_(H) begins to show a strong T
dependence, namely, |R_(H)| is strongly enhanced at low T and suddenly
drops at T_(c). Although this low-T enhancement of |R_(H)| is weakened
once at x = 0.7, it increases again at x ≥ 0.8. A large drop of R_(H)
observed around 140 K at x = 1 indicates the appearance of SDW, which is
consistent with the ρ(T) data and the previous studies [23, 32].

To visualize the correspondence to the phase diagram in Fig. 5(a), we
plot the x dependence of R_(H) at 50 K in Fig. 6(b), as a measure of
strength of T dependence of R_(H). Here we can find that the SC2 dome
(0 ≤ x ≤ 0.25) shows a weak T dependence of R_(H), while the AFM2 phase
(0.3 < x < 0.6) exhibits a strong T dependence. Although the decrease in
R_(H) is slightly recovered at x = 0.7 in SC1 dome, R_(H) drops again in
the AFM1 phase above x = 0.8.

The origin of the strong T dependence of R_(H) in the intermediate x
region may be explained by the following two aspects. The first one is
related to the change of FS through P/As substitution. The band
calculation [20] has demonstrated that the main difference between FS
topology of LaFeAsO and LaFePO is the hole pocket located at (π,π,0),
named the γ pocket. Since the $d_{X^{2}$-$Y^{2}}$ band dominates the FS
at (π,π,z) across z = 0 − π (2D tubelike FS), the γ pocket is observable
in LaFeAsO. On the other hand, in LaFePO, the d_(Z²) band which replaces
from d_(X², Y²) touches the Fermi level only around (π,π,π) but not
(π,π,0), forming a 3D FS pocket. Therefore the γ pocket in the k_(z) = 0
plane is absent in LaFePO. If As is substituted by P, the energy of the
d_(X², Y²) and d_(Z²) bands will interchange, and as a result the γ
pocket will shrink in size and finally vanish. We believe that this
reconstruction of FS affects the T dependence of R_(H). According to the
results in Fig. 6, the interchange of FS topology is supposed to happen
between x = 0.3 and 0.8. Following the discussion about the presence of
two different kinds of electronic states and their crossover in
LaFeP_(1.x)As_(x)O_(0.0)F_(0.1) in our previous study [27], we expect
that there are two electronic states corresponding to two types of FS
topology and the crossover of these two states causes the enhancement of
|R_(H)|.

The second aspect is related to the AFM phase between x = 0.3 and 0.6.
Since the AFM order may create a charge gap in some part of the FS, it
may decrease the number of charge carriers and thus enhance |R_(H)| at
low T. Another fact is that the T-dependent R_(H) of these samples can
be roughly fitted with the equation R_(H) = −α₀/(T + Θ), α₀ and Θ being
constants, which is derived from the SF theory [33, 34]. This relation
suggests that the strong T dependence of |R_(H)| is related to the
presence of the backflow due to strong electron-electron scattering
arising from SF, which is consistent with the observation of low-energy
SF above T_(N) in these samples via NMR technique [24, 29]. Therefore
the enhancement of |R_(H)| at x = 0.3-0.6 may be correlated to the AFM
order in AFM2 phase. A small decrease in R_(H) at x = 0.7 indicates a
recovery of FS which gives SC.

The second aspect, however, cannot be adopted in the case of the F-doped
system with y = 0.1 [27]. Although a similar enhancement of |R_(H)| is
observed near x = 0.6, the electronic state is far from the AFM order.
Therefore the anomaly in R_(H) near x = 0.6 for the series of y = 0.1
should be attributed to the band crossover (the first aspect).

Finally, we discuss the evolution of the electronic properties in
LaFeP_(1.x)As_(x)O_(1.y),F_(y). The phase diagram of this system is
illustrated in Fig. 7, which demonstrates the evolution of a two-SC-dome
feature. The two-dome structure at y = 0 becomes a single-dome structure
at y = 0.1. It can be viewed as the expansion of a SC2 dome with
increasing y as a result of the suppression of AFM2 phase through F
doping. The SF originating from the AFM2 phase contributes to the
development of SC at x ∼ 0.4 in the series of y = 0.05. In the series of
y = 0.1, the As content for the maximum strength of SF and the maximum
value of T_(c) is shifted to x = 0.6. It suggests that the SC2 dome
further expands and merges with the SC1 dome, resulting in a single
dome.

It is clear that the enhancement of T_(c) in the SC2 dome (or in the
lower x region) is commonly due to the increase of SF suggested by the
change of T dependence of ρ(T), namely, the decrease of the exponent n
from 2. The enhancement of SF from the FL state has also been observed
by NMR experiments [28, 29]. Therefore the SC in the low-x region is
more likely to be induced by SF. In contrast, there is no clear
correlation between T_(c) and the exponent n in the larger x (As-rich)
region.

Figure 6: (Color online) (a) The temperature dependence of the Hall
coefficient R_(H) of LaFeP_(1.x)As_(x)O with various x. The dashed curve
is the fitting of the data for x = 0.4, for example, by using the
equation R_(H) = −α₀/(T + Θ). (b) The x dependence of R_(H) at 50 K for
LaFeP_(1.x)As_(x)O.

Here we note that the exponent n approaches ∼1 around x = 0.6 in all y
series [see Fig. 2(d)]. Although the band crossover is suggested in the
region of 0.3 ≤ x ≤ 0.8 for y = 0 and at x ∼ 0.6 for y = 0.1 by the Hall
effect measurements, there is no theoretical model that connects the
T-linear ρ(T) and band crossover. This, together with the SC mechanism
in the larger x region, remains a puzzle.

## IV Conclusion

We have studied the transport properties of polycrystalline
LaFeP_(1 + x)As_(x)O_(1 + y)F_(y) from y = 0-0.1. For y = 0, an SC dome
(SC2 dome) has been found at x = 0-0.3, constructing a two-dome
structure in the phase diagram. With increasing y, the SC2 dome expands
and merges with the SC1 dome. Consequently, it results in a double-peak
structure of $T_{\rm c}(x)$ in the series of y = 0.05 and a single SC
dome in the series of y = 0.1. In addition to the AFM phase near
LaFeAsO, another AFM phase is observed at x = 0.3-0.6 (AFM2 phase) via
NMR in the series of y = 0. A strong temperature dependence of R_(H)
observed in the AFM2 phase suggests the AFM order opens a charge gap at
some parts of the FS. F doping suppresses the AFM order in the AFM2
phase and the residual SF induces SC, causing expansion of the SC2 dome.
The temperature dependence of ρ(T) commonly approaches T linear at
x ∼ 0.6 in all y series, together with the strong T dependence of R_(H).
The evolution of the two SC domes could strongly support the scenario
that there exist two different electronic states corresponding to the
two FS topologies for the P-rich and the As-rich compositions,
respectively. To clarify the SC mechanism for the latter composition
regions, further studies are required.

###### Acknowledgements.

We thank M. Ichimiya for technical support for the EDX measurements. We
also thank K. Kuroki for fruitful discussions. This work is supported by
JST, TRIP, and IRON-SEA.

## References

* [1] M. Rotter, M. Pangerl, M. Tegel, and D. Johrendt, Angew. Chem.
Int. Ed. **47**, 7949 (2008). * [2] J.-H. Chu, J. G. Analytis, C.
Kucharczyk, and I. R. Fisher, Phys. Rev. B **79**, 014506 (2009). * [3]
S. Kasahara _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **81**, 184519 (2010). * [4] S.
Iimura, S. Matuishi, H. Sato, T. Hanna, Y. Maraba, S. W. Kim, J. E. Kim,
M. Takata, and Hideo Hosono, Nat. Commun. **3**, 943 (2012). * [5] N.
Fujiwara, S. Tsutsumi, S. Iimura, S. Matsuishi, H. Hosono, Y. Yamakawa,
and H. Kontani, Phys. Rev. Lett. **111**, 097002 (2013). * [6] S. Iimura
_et al._, Phys. Rev. B **88**, 060501(R) (2013). * [7] Y. Yamakawa, S.
Onari, H. Kontani, N. Fujiwara, S. Iimura, and H. Hosono, Phys. Rev. B
**88**, 041106(R) (2013). * [8] K. Suzuki, H. Usui, K. Kuroki, S.
Iimura, Y. Sato, S. Matsuishi, and H. Hosono, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **82**,
083702 (2013). * [9] S. Onari, Y. Yamakawa, and H. Kontani, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **112**, 187001 (2014). * [10] Y. Kamihara, H. Hiramatsu, M.
Hirano, R. Kawamura, H. Yanagi, T. Kamiya, and H. Hosono, J. Am. Chem.
Soc. **128**, 10012 (2006). * [11] J. J. Hamlin, R. E. Baumbach, D. A.
Zocco, T. A. Sayles, and M. B. Maple, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter **20**,
365220 (2008). * [12] S. Suzuki, S. Miyasaka, S. Tajima, T. Kida, and M.
Hagiwara, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **78**, 114712 (2009). * [13] A. I. Coldea,
J. D. Fletcher, A. Carrington, J. G. Analytis, A. F. Bangura, J.-H. Chu,
A. S. Erickson, I. R. Fisher, N. E. Hussey, and R. D. McDonald, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **101**, 216402 (2008). * [14] H. Sugawara, R. Settai, Y.
Doi, H. Muranaka, K. Katayama, H. Yamagami, and Y. Onuki, J. Phys. Soc.
Jpn. **77**, 113711 (2008). * [15] C. Liu, Y. Lee, A. D. Palczewski,
J.-Q. Yan, T. Kondo, B. N. Harmon, R. W. McCallum, T. A. Lograsso, and
A. Kaminski, Phys. Rev. B **82**, 075135 (2010). * [16] D. H. Lu, M. Yi,
S.-K. Mo, J. G. Analytis, J.-H. Chu, A. S. Erickson, D. J. Singh, Z.
Hussain, T. H. Geballe, I. R. Fisher, and Z.-X. Shen, Physica C **469**,
452 (2009). * [17] D. H. Lu, M. Yi, S.-K. Mo, A. S. Erickson, J.
Analytis, J.-H. Chu, D. J. Singh, Z. Hussain, T. H. Geballe, I. R.
Fisher, and Z.-X. Shen, Nature (London) **455**, 81 (2008). * [18] S.
Lebegue, Phys. Rev. B **75**, 035110 (2007). * [19] D. J. Singh and
M.-H. Du, Phys. Rev. Lett. **100**, 237003 (2008). * [20] K. Kuroki, H.
Usui, S. Onari, R. Arita, and H. Aoki, Phys. Rev. B **79**, 224511
(2009). * [21] V. Vildosola, L. Pourovskii, R. Arita, S. Biermann, and
A. Georges, Phys. Rev. B **78**, 064518 (2008). * [22] R. Thomale, C.
Platt, W. Hanke, and B. A. Bernevig, Phys. Rev. Lett. **106**, 187003
(2011). * [23] C. Wang, S. Jiang, Q. Tao, Z. Ren, Y. Li, L. Li, C. Feng,
J. Dai, G. Cao, and Z. A. Xu, Europhys. Lett. **86**, 47002 (2009). *
[24] S. Kitagawa, T. Iye, Y. Nakia, K. Ishida, C. Wang, G.-H. Cao, and
Z.-A. Xu, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **83**, 023707 (2014). * [25] S. Saijo, S.
Suzuki, S. Miyasaka, and S. Tajima, Physica C **470**, S298 (2010). *
[26] S. Miyasaka, A. Takemori, S. Saijo, S. Suzuki, and S. Tajima, J.
Phys. Chem. Solid **72**, 414 (2011).

Figure 7: (Color online) The phase diagram of
LaFeP_(1 + x)As_(x)O_(1 + y)F_(y)[12, 27, 35]. The open dots indicate
the data by Wang _et al._[23] and Kitagawa _et al._[24].

* [27] S. Miyasaka, A. Takemori, T. Kobayashi, S. Suzuki, S. Saijo, and
S. Tajima, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **82**, 124706 (2013). * [28] H. Mukuda,
F. Engetsu, K. Yamamoto, K. T. Lai, M. Yashima, Y. Kitaoka, A. Takemori,
S. Miyasaka, and S. Tajima, Phys. Rev. B **89**, 064511 (2014). * [29]
H. Mukuda, F. Engetsu, T. Shiota, K. T. Lai, M. Yashima, Y. Kitaoka, S.
Miyasaka, and S. Tajima, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **83**, 083702 (2014). *
[30] A. Jesche, F. Nitsche, S. Probst, Th. Doert, P. Muller, and M.
Ruck, Phys. Rev. B **86**, 134511 (2012). * [31] J. Dai, Q. Si, J.-X.
Zhu, and E. Abrahams, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA **106**, 4118 (2009). *
[32] I. Pallecchi, F. Bernardini, F. Caglieris, A. Palenzona, S.
Massidda, and M. Putti, Eur. Phys. J. B **86**, 338 (2013). * [33] H.
Kontani, K. Kanki, and K. Ueda, Phys. Rev. B **59**, 14723 (1999). *
[34] Y. Nakajima, H. Shishido, H. Nakai, T. Shibauchi, K. Behnia, K.
Izawa, M. Hedo, Y. Uwatoko, T. Matsumoto, R. Settai, Y. Onuki, H.
Kontani, and Y. Matsuda, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **76**, 024703 (2007). *
[35] H. Luetkens, H.-H. Klauss, M. Kraken, F. J. Litterst, T. Dellmann,
R. Klingeler, C. Hess, R. Khasanov, A. Amato, C. Baines, M. Kosmala, O.
J. Schumann, M. Braden, J. Hamann-Borrero, N. Leps, A. Kondrat, G. Behr,
J. Werner, and B. Buchner, Nat. Mater. **8**, 305 (2009).
