# Superconductivity in the chalcogens up to multimegabar pressures

Eugene Gregoryanz, Viktor V. Struzhkin, Russell J. Hemley, Mikhail I.
Eremets, Ho-kwang Mao, Yuri A. Timofeev

1Geophysical Laboratory and Center for High Pressure Research, Carnegie
Institution of Washington, 5251 Broad Branch Road NW, Washington, D.C.
20015

2Institute for High Pressure Physics, Russian Academy of Sciences,
142092 Troitsk, Moscow Region, Russia

Received 16 August 2001; published 8 January 2002

###### Abstract

Highly sensitive magnetic-susceptibility techniques were used to measure
the superconducting transition temperatures in S up to 231(+-5) GPa. S
transforms to a superconductor with _T_(c)_ of 10 K and has a
discontinuity in _T_(c)_ dependence at 160 GPa corresponding to the bcc
to _b_-Po phase transition. Above this pressure, _T_(c)_ in S has a
maximum reaching about 17.3(+-0.5) K at 200 GPa and then slowly
decreases with pressure to 15 K at the highest pressures measured. This
trend in the pressure dependence parallels the behavior of the heavier
chalcogens Se and Te. Superconductivity in Se was observed from 15 to 25
GPa with _T_(c)_ changing from 4 to 6 K and above 150 GPa with _T_(c)_
of 8 K. Similarities in the _T_(c)_ dependences for S, Se, and Te, and
implications for oxygen are discussed.

pacs: 064504 + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL REVIEW B, VOLUME 65,
064504

## I Introduction

Comparative study of the high-pressure behavior of groups of elements
with identical valences provides detailed insight into the effects of
compression on electronic structure and its control of physical
properties. The chalcogen elements, or members of group VIa, exhibit a
variety of phases as a function of pressure and temperature and exhibit
a broad range of interesting physical properties.[1] The lighter members
of the family form molecular crystals. The first is oxygen, which forms
a diatomic molecular crystal and persists in a variety of molecular
phases to at least 100 GPa.[2] It also has peculiar magnetic
interactions, being the only magnetic insulator among the elements.[1]
At very high pressures, however, oxygen not only becomes metallic[3] but
is also superconducting[4] above 95 GPa. Theoretical calculations
predict that the high-pressure _z_-O₂ phase (above 95 GPa) is a
molecular metal,[5] while unambiguous experimental evidence of its
molecular character is still not available. Sulfur, the next member of
the family, has one of the most complex diagrams of the elements.[1]
Under ambient conditions, sulfur is molecular and consists of S₈ species
that form rings in the crystalline state. Under pressure, sulfur
undergoes a series of both stable and metastable phase transitions up to
 90 GPa, finally becoming metallic at higher pressures.[6]

Under pressure the VIa elements below oxygen undergo structural phase
transitions involving nonmolecular or extended structures and become
metallic (with the exception of Po that is a metal at room pressure).
Sulfur, selenium, and tellurium follow similar trends in the sequence of
observed crystal structures. At comparatively low pressures, they
crystallize in base-centered orthorhombic (bco) structures and are
metallic and superconducting. The situation is more complex at pressures
below the stability range of the bco phase. The observed sequence of
phase transitions in Se below 30 GPa depends on the starting phase of
the material.[7] An unidentified metallic phase was found in Se
(starting from about 13 GPa) that was observed to be superconducting
with _T_(c)_ = 5.2 K at 17 GPa.[7] Sulfur also has an unidentified phase
below 90 GPa,[8] which is, however, semiconducting.[6] On further
compression in the bco phase, S, Se, and Te transform to the
rhombohedral _b_-Po structure. If compressed to even higher pressures at
room temperature, Te and Se transform to the body-centered cubic (bcc)
structure at 27 GPa (Ref. [9]) and 140 GPa (Ref. [10]), respectively.

The high-pressure structural and electronic properties of these elements
have been the subject of a variety of theoretical studies.
Pseudopotential total-energy calculations[11] have been performed for
three high-pressure phases of S. They suggested that S should transform
from the _b_-Po to the bcc phase at 545 GPa that would have a strong
electron-phonon coupling leading to a superconducting transition
temperature of 15 K. More recent first-principles calculations[12]
predict that compressed S favors the simple cubic (SC) structure over a
wide range of pressures from 280 to 540 GPa before transforming to a bcc
phase. The later work also showed that upon entering the simple cubic
structure, the average phonon frequency ⟨ω⟩ increases substantially,
leading to a smaller l and thus smaller _T_(c)_. It was predicted that
_T_(c)_ would drop below 10 K upon entering the proposed simple cubic
phase.[12]

Recent experimental studies[13, 14] showed that sulfur becomes metallic
and superconducting at 93 GPa (with _T_(c)_ = 10.1 K) and when
pressurized above 160 GPa in the _b_-Po phase it has one of the highest
known transition temperatures among the elements (17 K). Here, we
present a comparative study of pressure-induced superconductivity in the
chalcogens up to multimegabar (>200 GPa) pressures. We extended the
measurements of superconductivity in S by magnetic susceptibility up to
231(+-5) GPa, which appears to be a record pressure for such an
experiment. We also present results for _T_(c)_ in Se by direct
resistance measurements from 15 to 25 GPa and by magnetic susceptibility
up to 180(+-5) GPa in the bcc phase.

## II Experimental Details

We performed the measurements of _T_(c)_ of S and Se using an improved
extension of a highly sensitive diamond-anvil cell
magnetic-susceptibility technique described previously.[15] This
technique is based on the quenching of superconductiv ity and
suppression of the Meisner effect in the sample by an external magnetic
field. The susceptibility of the metallic diamagnetic parts of the
diamond cell is essentially independent of the external field. Applying
a magnetic field to the diamond cell (and sample) will therefore change
the signal coming from the sample while the background arising from the
surrounding diamagnetic parts will be nearly constant. The measurements
are done with four coils (shown in Fig. 1). The two small coils consist
of a signal coil, which is wound around the sample (1) and a
compensating coil (2) connected in opposition. The excitation coil (3)
encompasses both the signal and compensating coils. An alternating
high-frequency magnetic field at the signal coil is created by the
excitation coil fed from the high-frequency generator. The alternating
magnetic field excites electromotive forces in the signal coil. The
fourth coil (4) placed around the diamond cell is used to destroy the
superconductivity in the sample near the superconducting transition by
application of a low-frequency (f= 20 Hz) magnetic field with an
amplitude of several tens of Oersteds. This leads to a change in
magnetic susceptibility of the sample from −1 to 0 twice in a given
period and produces a modulation of the signal amplitude in the signal
coil with a frequency 2 f. A lock-in technique is used to record this
signal as a function of temperature. The technique sensitivity was
improved recently by using a higher modulation frequency in the
excitation-pickup coil set up.[16]

Samples of 99.9995

For Se we performed direct conductivity measurements of sample
resistance up to 35 GPa.[19] Four electrical leads formed from platinum
foil allowed four-electrode measurements of the resistance. To insulate
the electrodes from the metallic gasket, an insulating layer made from a
mixture of cubic boron nitride powder and epoxy was used. The
superconducting transition was detected by direct resistance
measurements and by using a modulating technique similar to that used in
the susceptibility experiments. At higher pressures (up to 180 GPa), we
used the magnetic susceptibility technique described above. The
configurations of the cell,

Figure 2: Typical signal recorded for S during low-temperature scans.
The top scan (background) was measured after the high-pressure run.

Figure 1: Schematic diagram of the diamond-anvil cell
magnetic-susceptibility technique used in these experiments.

diamonds, gasket, and ruby fluorescence measurement technique were
identical to that used in the S experiments.

## III Results and Discussion

### Superconductivity in S to 230 GPa

Several runs were made with decreasing sample sizes and diamond culet
dimensions to successively higher pressures. Measurements are made as a
function of temperature. Representative results are shown in Figs. 2−4.
No superconductivity was detected up to approximately 90 GPa. At 93 GPa
however, a peak characteristic of the superconducting transition to the
superconducting state was observed.[15]T_(c) is identified as the
temperature where the signal goes to zero on the high-temperature side
(e.g., Fig. 4), which is the point at which magnetic flux completely
enters the sample.[15] Two peaks are clearly seen at ∼10−12 K and ∼17 K.
The second broad peak at lower temperatures arises from the sample
outside of the flat culet, where pressure is considerably lower than in
the middle of the culet. At pressures over 190 GPa the peak at 17 K
becomes visibly split. This splitting is artificial and only reflects
the fact that the signal amplitude has increased substantially with
respect to the background.[20]

The background signal in our measurements appeared to be ferromagnetic,
as its phase is approximately opposite that of the signal from the
sample (diamagnetic) (see Fig. 2). Because the background signal changes
smoothly with temperature, we can separate the signal from the
background by the simple procedure illustrated in Fig. 3. We measure the
amplitude and phase of a sum of signal and background with the lock-in
technique. The signal changes very abruptly in the vicinity of the
superconducting transition, allowing us to see these changes both in
amplitude and phase (Fig. 3). It is straightforward to interpolate the
background in the range of the superconducting transition with a smooth
polynomial function. The total signal can be represented as the complex
variable U=A_(S)e^(iδS), and the interpolated background as **B**
=A_(B)e^(iϕβ); our signal is then **S=A_(S)e^(iδS)= U−B** (the
difference of two complex variables).

The signal with background subtracted is shown in Fig. 4. As in previous
work,[14] we observed the appearance of a T_(c) signal at ∼ 93 GPa at 10
K. T_(c) gradually increases and upon entering the β-Po phase at 165 GPa
it jumps to 17.0(±0.5) K. For the next 35 GPa, it still slowly
increases, reaching a weak maximum of 17.3(±0.5) K at 180−200 GPa; it
then decreases on further compression, dropping to 15 K at 231 GPa.

### Superconductivity in Se to 180 GPa

Two sets of experiments were performed on Se. In the first experiment,
we used 99.999

Figure 4: Processed signal at a series of pressures for sulfur. The wide
peak at lower temperatures is from the sample outside of the culet.

Figure 5: Temperature dependence of resistance and resistance modulated
by the magnetic field for Se. Inset: micrograph of the four-probe
electrode arrangement used in these measurements.

In the second set of experiments amorphous Se was pressurized up to 180
GPa and T_(c) was measured by susceptibility technique. Currently, it is
difficult to measure T_(c) signals of ∼30 μm in diameter samples with
this technique if the temperature of the superconducting transition is
below 4 K due to a developing background signal that is probably related
to paramagnetic signal from the gasket (tungsten inset and Ni-Cr-Al
alloy gasket material). We were able to detect the superconducting
signal in the bcc phase from 140 to 180 GPa. On decompression below 130
GPa, the measurable signal disappeared.

### Comparison of T_(c) among the chalcogens

The pressure dependences of T_(c) in the group VIa elements are shown in
Fig. 6, together with the observed transition pressures between the
phases. It should be noted that the phase boundaries were determined by
x-ray diffraction at room temperature while the observations of
superconductivity were done at temperatures ranging from 2 to 18 K. It
may be assumed that the phase boundaries at low temperatures (if any)
would be shifted in pressure. The observed structures are illustrated in
Fig. 7.

Tellurium becomes superconducting in the monoclinic phase at ∼4 GPa. As
shown in Fig. 6(c), T_(c) rises linearly with pressure in this phase
upon transforming to the bcc structure, it levels off and starts to
decrease, passing through the field of stability of the β-Po phase.
T_(c) then jumps by almost a factor of three and starts to come down
again. This jump in T_(c) happens at 35 GPa while room-temperature phase
transition to bcc phase happens at 27 GPa.

Under ambient conditions, Se can be found in trigonal, monoclinic, or
amorphous forms. Akahama, Kobayashi, and Kawamura [2] showed that
monoclinic and trigonal Se become metallic at 12 and 23 GPa,
respectively. Under pressure amorphous Se crystallizes in a trigonal
structure and becomes metallic at 12 GPa. It was shown [7] that if
α-monoclinic Se used as the starting material, it transforms at 12 GPa
to an unidentified metallic phase that is superconducting at 17 GPa but
no pressure dependence of T_(c) was given. Figure 6(b) shows our results
for Se combined with the results of Ref. [22]. The trend in the T_(c)
dependence for Se is remarkably similar to that of Te, although unlike
the latter, Se becomes metallic and superconducting in an unidentified
phase from 14 to 23 GPa. The structural sequence is identical to that of
Te starting from 23 GPa where Se enters the monoclinic phase. Unlike the
situation for Te, T_(c) within this phase changes little with pressure.
When Se is compressed further, the abrupt decrease in T_(c) starts at 33
GPa which can be attributed to the transition to the bcc phase; this
happens at 27 GPa at room temperature. There are no experimental
measurements of T_(c) for Se from 60 to 150 GPa, but theoretical
calculations [24] predict a decrease of T_(c) in the β-Po phase,
followed by an increase to much higher values around 140 GPa where Se
transforms to the bcc structure (at 300 K). The values of T_(c) in Se at
150-170 GPa measured here are very close to those calculated in Ref.
[24].

The structures of the semiconducting phases of S below the 90 GPa
transition are not known. The material becomes

Figure 6: Temperature dependences of T_(c)(P) in (a) S, (b) Se, and (c)
Te. The experimental points for Se and Te shown as open diamonds are
from Refs. [22], [23]. Theoretical results for Se are shown in (b) with
open circles (Ref. [24]). The dashed lines are the phase boundaries
measured at room temperature by x-ray diffraction.

metallic and superconducting in the bco phase. Unlike the behavior of Se
and Te, T_(c) in this phase of S increases with pressure and jumps
abruptly upon entering the β-Po-type phase [Fig. 6(a)]. In the β-Po
phase, T_(c) slowly decreases with further compression. This decrease is
consistent with the theoretical calculations of Rudin and Liu,[12] which
predicted a decrease in the electron-phonon coupling parameter λ as the
sc phase is approached.[12]

It can be clearly seen from the behavior of T_(c) for the three elements
that the transition temperatures cannot be simply explained by the
existence of phase transitions and similar values for electron-phonon
coupling alone. On the other hand, the similar trends are broadly
consistent with changes towards higher-symmetry structures
(transformation of layered phases to the close-packed structures at the
highest pressures) with weakening of the directional covalent bonding,
as we now discuss.

Mossbauer studies of Te showed a decrease in the quadrupole splitting
with pressure that was ascribed to strengthened interactions between
neighboring chains and weakening of the covalent bonds within the
chain.[27] The splitting disappeared when Te was pressurized into the
bcc phase where no covalent bonding is present. Thus we assume that the
continuous weakening of the covalent bonds with increasing pressure
arises from increasing screening by free carriers due to increasing
density of states at the Fermi level.

To analyze the possible T_(c) increase in the lower-pressure phases of
the chalcogens due to changes in phonon spectra, we estimated T_(c) in
the lower symmetry "layered" structures (i.e., monoclinic, bcc) using
the Allen-Dynes formula[25] with literature values of λ (electron-phonon
coupling constant) and μ^(*) (effective Coulomb repulsion potential). We
assumed μ^(*) = 0.1 and varied λ. The values of
$\langle\omega_{\rm log}\rangle$ and ⟨ω²⟩, the averages of the phonon
frequencies weighted to represent the strength of the electron-phonon
coupling, were estimated with a phonon density of states that was
assumed to have two cutoff Debye frequencies with values typical for Se
and Te corresponding to intralayer bond-stretching and interlayer
vibrations. In our estimates of T_(c) vs pressure, the lower-energy peak
attributed to interlayer vibrations was allowed to move towards higher
energies with pressure while the higher-energy peak representing
intralayer bond-stretching modes was assumed to be pressure independent.
The values of T_(c) obtained in these calculations are within the range
of the experimentally observed T_(c) for Se and Te in their monoclinic
and bco structures. However, T_(c) is virtually independent of phonon
spectra but instead depends on λ. From experimental data, λ increases
with pressure, meaning that N(E_(F))⟨I²⟩ increases faster than M⟨ω²⟩
(which does not change substantially in our simplified model), where
λ = N(E_(F))×⟨I²⟩/M⟨ω²⟩, according to McMillan.[26] Here N(E_(F))⟨I²⟩ is
the Hopfield parameter, which is generally assumed to be inversely
proportional to volume in simple s-p metals.[26] Thus, the increase in
T_(c) observed in the monoclinic phase of Te and the unidentified phase
of Se where covalent bonding is still significant is most probably
governed by the increase in Hopfield parameter with pressure. Sulfur has
increasing T_(c) in its bco phase where covalent bonding is still
present.

The bco → β-Po→bcc structural sequence may also be possible for oxygen,
although the stability of its diatomic state appears to extend to very
high pressures (> 100 GPa[28]). It remains to be determined at what
pressures the oxygen molecules dissociate (at low temperature), and what
crystal structures would form. The additional complication with oxygen
is its magnetic properties, which could play an important role in
determining T_(c). If oxygen follows a similar structural trend in its
nonmolecular state, a similar T_(c) dependence might be expected. Recent
calculations[29] suggest that could be in 1 TPa range.

## IV Conclusions

We have measured T_(c) of S up to 231 GPa, a record pressure for both
superconductivity and magnetic susceptibility techniques. The value of
T_(c) at the highest pressures (15 K above 200 GPa, decreasing from 17 K
at 160 GPa) in accord with the original theoretical predictions for the
hypothetical bcc phase and more recent calculations for the β-Po
structure. The superconducting behavior of Se was observed in an
unidentified phase from 14 to 20 GPa. The T_(c) for Se is also in very
good agreement with recent first-principles calculations[24] (assuming
β-Po, bcc, and fcc structures). The data obtained in the present work,
previously published experimental data, and recent theoretical
calculations for the chalcogens allow us to conclude that at lower
pressures T_(c) is controlled at least in part by changes in covalent
bonding. In higher pressures the bcc phases of these materials, the
behavior of T_(c) resembles normal p metals and decreases with pressure.

###### Acknowledgements.

We thank A. Liu for sharing results on Se prior to publication and S.
Rudin and P. Dera for helpful discussions. This work was supported by
the National Science Foundation.

Figure 7: Comparison between the (a) bco, (b) β-Po, and (c) bcc
structures.

## References

* [1] D. A. Young, _Phase Diagrams of the Elements_ (University of
California Press, Oxford, England 1991). * [2] M. Nicol and K. Syassen,
Phys. Rev. B **28**, 1201 (1983); R. Meier and R. Helmholdt,
_ibid._**29**, 1387 (1984); F. Gorelli, L. Ulivi, M. Santoro, and R.
Bini, Phys. Rev. Lett. **83**, 4093 (1999); F. Gorelli, L. Ulivi, M.
Santoro, and R. Bini, Phys. Rev. B **60**, 6179 (1999). * [3] S.
Desgreniers, Y. K. Vohra, and A. L. Ruoff, J. Phys. Chem. **94**, 1117
(1990). * [4] K. Shimizu, K. Suhara, M. Ikumo, M. Eremets, and K. Amaya,
Nature (London) **393**, 767 (1998). * [5] S. Serra, G. Chiarotti, S.
Scandolo, and E. Tosatti, Phys. Rev. Lett. **80**, 5160 (1998). * [6] H.
Luo, S. Desgreniers, Y. K. Vohra, and A. L. Ruoff, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**67**, 2998 (1991). * [7] Y. Akahama, M. Kobayashi, and H. Kawamura,
Phys. Rev. B **56**, 5027 (1997). * [8] Y. Akahama, M. Kobayashi, and H.
Kawamura, Phys. Rev. B **48**, 6862 (1993). * [9] G. Parthasarathy and
W. B. Holzapfel, Phys. Rev. B **37**, 8499 (1988). * [10] Y. Akahama, M.
Kobayashi, and H. Kawamura, Phys. Rev. B **47**, 20 (1993). * [11] O.
Zakharov and M. L. Cohen, Phys. Rev. B **52**, 12 572 (1995). * [12] S.
Rudin and A. Liu, Phys. Rev. Lett. **83**, 3049 (1999). * [13] S.
Kometani, M. Eremets, K. Shimizu, M. Kobayashi, and K. Amaya, J. Phys.
Soc. Jpn. **66**, 2564 (1997). * [14] V. V. Struzhkin, R. J. Hemley, H.
K. Mao, and Yu. A. Timofeev, Nature (London) **390**, 382 (1997). * [15]
Yu. A. Timofeev, Prib. Tekh. Eksp. **5**, 190 (1992). * [16] Yu. A.
Timofeev, V. V. Struzhkin, E. Gregoryanz, H. K. Mao, and R. J. Hemley,
Rev. Sci. Instr. (to be published). * [17] H. K. Mao, R. J. Hemley, and
A. L. Mao, _High-Pressure Science and Technology-1993_, edited by S. C.
Schmidt _et al._ (American Institute of Physics, New York, 1994), pp.
1613-1616. * [18] H. K. Mao, J. Xu, and P. M. Bell, J. Geophys. Res.
**91**, 4673 (1986). * [19] M. I. Eremets, E. Gregoryanz, V. V.
Struzhkin, H. K. Mao, R. J. Hemley, N. Mulders, and N. Zimmerman, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **85**, 2797 (2000). * [20] J. Xu, H. K. Mao, and P. M. Bell,
High Temp.-High Press. **16**, 495 (1984). * [21] A. K. Bandyopadhyay
and L. C. Ming, Phys. Rev. B **54**, 12 049 (1996). * [22] Y. Akahama,
M. Kobayashi, and H. Kawamura, Solid State Commun. **84**, 803 (1992). *
[23] I. V. Berman, Zh. I. Binzarov, and P. Kurkin, Sov. Phys. Solid
State **14**, 2192 (1973). * [24] S. Rudin, A. Liu, J. Freericks, and A.
Quandt, cond-mat/0011449 (unpublished). * [25] P. B. Allen and R. C.
Dynes, Phys. Rev. B **12**, 905 (1975). * [26] W. L. McMillan, Phys.
Rev. **167**, 331 (1968). * [27] P. Vulliet and J. P. Sanchez, Phys.
Rev. B **58**, 171 (1998). * [28] P. Loubeyre (private communication). *
[29] M. Otani, K. Yamaguchi, H. Miyagi, and N. Suzuki, Rev. High
Pressure Sci. Technol. **7**, 178 (1998).
