Superconductivity and magnetism in (_R_1.5-x Pr_x Ce0.5)Sr2Cu2NbO10-_d_
(_R_ = Nd,Sm,Eu) : Criteria for modeling the suppression of
superconductivity by Pr in high-_T__c_ cuprates

T. J. Goodwin

Department of Physics, University of California, Davis, Davis,
California 95616

H. B. Radousky

Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, Livermore, California 94550

and Department of Physics, University of California, Davis, Davis,
California 95616

R. N. Shelton

Department of Physics, University of California, Davis, Davis,
California 95616

23 October 1996

###### Abstract

We report on the electronic and magnetic phase diagram for (_R_1.5-xPr_x
Ce0.5)Sr2Cu2NbO10-_d_ (_R_ = Nd,Sm,Eu). The results indicate that Pr
suppresses superconductivity in these materials in the same manner as in
the (_R_1.5-xPr_x)Ba2Cu2O7 compounds and that this suppression is
correlated with anomalous Pr magnetism, a reduced Pr effective moment, a
metal-to-insulator transition, and an ion size effect. The significance
of these results in terms of a generalization of this phenomenon, the
criteria they establish for modeling these materials, and the role of
_f_-electron hybridization is discussed.

23 October 1 magnetic Cu spin structure.[3, 7] Similar irreversibilities
were observed for the (Eu_(1.5 − x)Pr_(x)Ce_(0.5))SCNO samples for
x >0.6, but with the onsets shifted to lower temperatures with lower Pr
doping.

C(T) data for the (Eu_(1.5 − x)Pr_(x)Ce_(0.5))SCNO samples were
collected from 0.6 to 60 K with a standard adiabatic heat-pulse
calorimeter attached to a He³ cryostat. The magnetic contribution
$C_{\rm mag}(T)$ to the C(T) data was determined by subtracting a
lattice specific heat C_(l)(T) [determined from nonmagnetic
(Eu_(1.5)Ce_(0.5))SCNO (Ref. [3]) and a nuclear Schottky anomaly (below
2 K) from C(T), i.e., $C_{\rm mag}(T)$ = C(T) − C_(x)(T). The
$C_{\rm mag}(T)$ data for (Pr_(1.5)Ce_(0.5))SCNO showed a broad magnetic
anomaly with a peak at 10 K that has been identified as an ordering of
the Pr sublattice.[3] [An earlier paper by Felner _et al.[7]_ questions
Pr ordering in (Pr_(1.5)Ce_(0.5))SCNO since they saw no C(T) anomaly; we
find that an anomaly is clearly visible in our C(T) data, which
corresponds to a cusp near 10 K in the magnetic susceptibility of the Pr
spins.[3] The $C_{\rm mag}(T)$ data for the
(Eu_(1.5 − x)Pr_(x)Ce_(0.5))SCNO samples for x >= 0.4 showed similar
magnetic anomalies but with the peaks shifted to lower temperature with
lower Pr content (Fig. 1). We interpret these peaks as the T_(N) for a
diluted Pr sublattice and x = 0.4 as the percolation level for
long-range order (LRO) for the Pr spins. The insulating state, high Pr
T_(N), and large Pr-Pr interatomic spacing[8] in (Pr_(1.5)Ce_(0.5))SCNO
serve to exclude a Ruderman-Kittel-Kasuya-Yosida, dipolar, or direct
exchange magnetic interactions. Hence a superexchange interaction,
presumably through the nearest-neighbor planar oxygen atoms, is
indicated as the underlying mechanism for the Pr magnetism.[3] This Pr
magnetism is remarkably similar to that in PrBCO in terms of
manifestation and mechanism, suggesting that they are of the same
nature.[1, 3]

Resistivity data were collected with a standard four-probe technique for
resistances R < 100 kΩ and a two-probe technique for R > 10 kΩ. A more
comprehensive report of the magnetic, specific heat, and resistivity
measurements is given elsewhere.[9]

Figure 1 shows the electronic and magnetic phase diagram for the
(Eu_(1.5 − x)Pr_(x)Ce_(0.5))SCNO system based on our ρ(T), M(T), and
C(T) data.[9] As Pr is doped into (Eu_(1.5)Ce_(0.5))SCNO, T_(c)(x) is
suppressed and near x = 0.3 the system is no longer superconducting and
undergoes a metal-to-insulator (MI) transition. At x ≈0.4, Pr LRO
appears below 2 K and develops with increased Pr content into the 10-K
T_(N) of (Pr_(1.5)Ce_(0.5))SCNO.[3] At x ≈0.6, a Cu spin structure
reordering T_(L) appears near 8 K and develops with further Pr doping
into the 57-K reordering of (Pr_(1.5)Ce_(0.5))SCNO.[3] For the (_R_
1.5-_x_Pr_(x)Ce_(0.5))SCNO (_R_ = Nd,Sm) systems, T_(c) is suppressed
more quickly with Pr doping; this ion size effect is illustrated in Fig.
2. The critical Pr doping level x_(t) at which T_(c)(x) reaches 0 K in
these systems was determined from the intercept of binomial fits of the
T_(c)(x) data; the T_(c)(x) data show a binomial profile as in the (_R_
1.5-_x_Pr_(x))BCO systems.[1, 10] The binomial fits describe the data
well (Fig. 2) and yield x_(t) values of 0.226, 0.264, and 0.286 for R =
Nd, Sm, and Eu, respectively. These _x__ct_’s scale linearly with the
ionic radii r_(i) of Nd, Sm, and Eu (Fig. 2) as in the (_R_
1.5-_x_Pr_(x))BCO systems.[10]

Figure 3 summarizes the ρ data for the (Eu_(1.5 − x)Pr_(x)Ce_(0.5))SCNO
system in terms of ρ(x) at 100 K. The data demonstrate the two distinct
regions for electronic transport (metallic for x < 0.3) and insulating
for x > 0.3), the MI transition near x = 0.3, and that the resistivity
of the system increases with Pr content. These results suggest that one
effect of Pr on this system is to reduce the density of itinerant
carriers n_(e) , thereby suppressing T_(c). A possible interpre

Figure 1: Phase diagram of the (Eu_(1.5 − x)Pr_(x)Ce_(0.5))SCNO system.
T_(c) (◼) is the superconducting transition temperature, T_(N) (▴) is
the Pr Néel temperature, and T_(L) (◼) is a Cu spin structure
reordering; the curves are only a guide to the eye.

Figure 3: Resistivity data for the (Eu_(1.5 − x)Pr_(x)Ce_(0.5))SCNO
system at 100 K. The lines are linear fits of the data (on a logarithmic
scale) for x < 0.3 and x > 0.3.

tation of this behavior is that all the (_R_1.5Ce0.5)SCNO compounds have
similar electronic structures and the insulating state of
(Pr1.5Ce0.5)SCNO is due to band filling from a mixed valent Pr and/or Ce
ion. However, based upon the oxygen stoichiometry determined above and
XRD, _C_(_T_), _M_(_T_), and electron energy loss spectroscopy
measurements of the (Eu1.5-_x_PrsCe0.5)SCNO system, which indicate
trivalent Pr and tetravalent Ce in these compounds,[3, 4, 9, 11] a
straightforward valence count yields a carrier density of 0.20(1) holes
per Cu ion for all these samples, which is near the optimal level for
high-_T__c_ cuprates. If all the (Eu1.5-_x_PrsCe0.5)SCNO compounds have
an electronic structure comparable to the (_R_1.5Ce0.5)SCNO (_R_ =
Nd,Sm,Eu,Gd) compounds, we would expect them to be metallic and
superconducting. Another possible source of the suppression of T_(c) is
the unusual Pr magnetism. Accordingly, T_(c)(_x_) for the
(_R_1.5-_x_PrsCe0.5)SCNO systems were fit to the Abrikosov-Gor’kov (AG)
formalism for magnetic pair breaking:

$$\ln\left(\frac{T_{c}(x)}{T_{c}(0)}\right) = \Psi\left(\frac{1}{2}\right) - \Psi\left(\frac{1}{2} + \frac{1}{4}\ e^{- \gamma}\frac{x}{x_{\rm{cr}}}\frac{T_{c}(0)}{T_{c}(x)}\right),$$

where Ψ is the digamma function, g is Euler’s constant, and values for
x_(r) were taken from the above binomial fits of the data. The results
in Fig. 2 indicate that the T_(c)(_x_) profiles are not characteristic
of AG pair breaking and that the AG formalism generally fails to explain
the suppression of T_(c)(_x_) in these systems. Furthermore, pair
breaking cannot account for the MI transition and its relationship to
the suppression of T_(c). Hence the role of pair breaking in these
materials is unclear.

These results demonstrate that the suppression of superconductivity by
Pr in the (_R_1.5Ce0.5)SCNO structure is phenomenologically equivalent
to that in the _R_BCO structure. In both structures the suppression of
T_(c) is associated with a MI transition, anomalous Pr magnetism, a
reduced Pr _m__eff of  2.8_m__B_, a distinct Pr 4f CF GS, an ion size
effect, evidence of a corresponding reduction of n_(e), a linear
relationship between x_(r) and r_(i), and a binomial profile for
T_(c)(_x_).[1, 3, 9] Furthermore, pair breaking and band filling fail to
explain the unusual properties of these materials. These remarkable
similarities are convincing evidence that the suppression of T_(c) by Pr
in these structures is the same basic phenomenon and that the
accompanying unusual properties are correlated with and are salient
features of this suppression. Furthermore, they serve to generalize and
characterize this phenomenon and allow us to accordingly define a
_subclass of high-_T__c_ cuprates. Indeed, there is already some
evidence of a subclass of high-_T__c_ cuprates along these lines based
upon the properties of CmBCO and (more recently) the
(_Y_1-_x_Prs)Ba2Cu4O8 system and the anomalous Pr magnetism in the
PrBa2Cu2NbO8 and _M_Sr2PrCu2O6 [_M_ = Hg,Tl,(Pb,Cu)] compounds.[1, 12,
13] These results also serve to establish criteria for modeling the
suppression of superconductivity by the Pr ion in high-_T__c_ cuprates
and provide definitive physical attributes by which this class of
materials is distinguished and modeled. Any viable and complete model
must now address the salient features outlined above and be general
enough to apply to all high-_T__c_ cuprates that show this effect.
Furthermore, these salient features indicate that the definitive
physical attributes of this phenomenon are T_(c)(_x_, r_(i)),
T_(N)(_x_), x_(i)(_r__i_), n_(e)(_x_, r_(i)), and the Pr 4f CF GS energy
levels.

Studying this phenomenon in the (_R_1.5Ce0.5)SCNO structure has the
advantage that the properties of the (_R_1.5Ce0.5)SCNO materials as
high-_T__c_ cuprates are distinct enough from those of the _R_BCO
materials such that the generality of this phenomenon may be addressed
effectively. This enables a stronger distinction between properties that
are intrinsic to this phenomenon and those that are extrinsic (material
or structure specific). For several examples, the (_R_1.5Ce0.5)SCNO
structure lacks the CuO chains of the _R_BCO structure and the
difficulty they pose in characterizing and modeling transport in
PrBCO.[1, 3, 16, 17] Carriers are introduced into the CuO2 planes of the
_R_BCO structure through transfer of the excess charge on the CuO
chains, whereas the (_R_1.5Ce0.5)SCNO structure is doped by adjusting
the stoichiometry of the _R_-Ce solid solution in a manner similar to
the more familiar (La2-_x__M_)CuO4 (_M_ = Sr,Ba) materials.[8, 9] The Pr
magnetism of (Pr1.5Ce0.5)SCNO is more complex than for PrBCO (Ref. [3])
since the Pr sublattice is not square planar and suffers from inherent
chemical and CF disorder due to the resident Ce4+ ions.[3] Figure 1
shows that unlike the (_Y_1-_x_Pr)BCO system, the
(Eu1.5-_x_PrsCe0.5)SCNO system does not show a coexistence of Pr
magnetism and superconductivity and instead shows a region where neither
Pr magnetism nor superconductivity is present. Additional criteria may
be inferred from these differences since they suggest that the doping
mechanism, CuO chain structure, and Pr sublattice structure are not
directly related to the suppression of T_(c) in these materials.
However, the proximity of the Pr ions to the CuO2 planes remains a
general feature of these materials and is an issue given the relevance
of _f_-electron interactions as related below. Finally, we mention that
Pr-Ba disorder is also an issue for PrBCO (Refs. [16] and [17]) and that
(Pr1.5Ce0.5)SCNO with Ce ions occupying 25

A general correlation between these salient features and the suppression
of superconductivity suggests that these features are each either a
mechanism or a side effect of the mechanism for this suppression. The
ion size effect and Pr 4f CF GS are in and of themselves effects and
pair breaking fails to model these materials. However, a reduction of
n_(e) is consistent with understanding the destruction of a
superconducting state and MI transitions. How would Pr effect a
reduction of n_(e) and the MI transition in these materials while other
rare-earth elements do not? Electronic-structure calculations indicate
that the primary difference between PrBCO and other _R_BCO compounds is
that 4f density of states overlaps the Fermi energy E_(F) in PrBCO.[1,
14] This indicates that the Pr 4f electrons interact with planar
conduction states in PrBCO and suggests that they form a hybridized
state.[1, 14, 16, 17] Indeed, there is considerable evidence of
_f_-electronic interactions in PrBCO and such interactions could account
for the Pr 4f CF GS and a superexchange interaction.[1, 3, 16] The Pr
4_f_-electronic states are therefore expected to have a significant
impact upon the electronic properties of PrBCO and their interactions
with the CuO2 planar states may be responsible for a reduction of n_(e)
and consequently the MI transition and suppression of T_(c).[1] We men
tion that the electronic structure has been determined for
(Nd2-xCex)SCNO,[15] but not for (Pr1,5Ce0,5)SCNO. Nonetheless, the
anomalous Pr magnetism and a generalization of this phenomenon imply the
presence of hybridization in (Pr1,5Ce0,5)SCNO. Based upon our results,
we predict that electronic-structure calculations for (Pr1,5Ce0,5)SCNO
will find that the 4f density of states overlaps E_(F) and that
_f_-electronic interactions are a primary issue in understanding the
properties of (Pr1,5Ce0,5)SCNO.

Recent theoretical activity on PrBCO has focused on how _f_-electron
hybridization could reduce n_(e) and suppress T_(c) 1,16,17 Notably,
Fehrenbacher and Rice proposed a semi-qualitative model in which a
hybridized Pr 4f planar O 2_p__m_ electronic state [Fehrenbacher-Rice
(FR) state] is energetically competitive with the CuO2 planar carrier
states.16 This FR state depletes carriers from the planar conducting
states, reducing n_(e) and suppressing T_(c) . Liechtenstein and Mazin
further developed the FR model by assuming that the FR states form a
dispersive band and including f shell Coulomb correlations in their
calculations.17 Their results demonstrated how the position of the f
band of the rare-earth element R can influence the rate of carrier
depletion from the CuO2 planes and lead to the observed ion size effect
in the (_R_1-xPrx)BCO materials. These models do not directly address
superconducting parameters, the Pr 4f CF GS, or Pr magnetism in these
materials. Furthermore, they are unable to account for the insulating
state of PrBCO without relying on conjecture of chemical disorder and
oxygen defects. However, they do provide a theoretical basis for
understanding how hybridization can reduce n_(e) and lead to a
suppression of T_(c) with an ion size effect; in principle, this
hybridization can account for the observed CF effects and Pr magnetic
interactions. While these models were developed specifically for the
RBCO materials, they can be conceptually generalized and applied to
(Pr1,5Ce0,5)SCNO since the basic presuppositions of the models
(hybridization, the FR state, and carrier depletion/localization) can be
generally applied to Pr-based high-_T__c_ cuprates in which the Pr ions
are nearest neighbors of the CuO2 planes. Modeling for this phenomenon
would benefit from the application of generalized FR and
Liechtenstein-Mazin models to the (_R_1,5-xPrxCe0,5)SCNO systems. The
lack of CuO chains in the (_R_1,5Ce0,5)SCNO removes the difficulty posed
by the predicted metallic transport in the CuO chains for PrBCO.16,17
Also, the relationship between the CuO chains and CuO2 planes makes it
difficult to estimate n_(e)(_x_) and the relationship between n_(e)(_x_)
and T_(c)(_x_) in the (_R_1-xPrx)BCO materials.17 Determining these
relationships in the (_R_1,5Ce0,5)SCNO structure should be as
straightforward as for the (La2-_M__x_)CuO4 (_M_ = Sr,Ba) materials.8

Our results indicate that Pr suppresses superconductivity in the
(_R_1,5Ce0,5)SCNO structure through the same mechanism as in the _R_BCO
structure and that PrBCO and (Pr1,5Ce0,5)SCNO form a subclass of
high-_T__c_ cuprates that show a suppression of T_(c) that is correlated
with anomalous Pr magnetism, a reduced Pr _m__eff of  2.8_m__B_ , a
characteristic Pr 4f CF GS, a MI transition, an ion size effect, a
linear relation between x_(r) and r_(i) , and a binomial-like profile
for T_(c)(_x_). These results establish definitive attributes and
criteria by which models for these materials may be tested. Current
models for PrBCO based upon hybridization should be generalized and
developed to address these criteria and the general characteristics of
this phenomenon. Finally, we mention that recently Pr has been reported
to suppress T_(c) in the (_Y_1-xPrx)Ba2Cu4O8 system in conjunction with
a MI transition and a reduced Pr _m__eff of  2.8_m__B_ .13 We predict
that a nonsinglet Pr 4f CF GS, anomalous Pr magnetism, _f_-electronic
interactions, an ion size effect, a linear relation between x_(r) and
r_(i) , and a binomial profile for T_(c)(_x_) will also accompany this
suppression.

_Note added._ Recently, Zou _et al._18 reported superconductivity in
PrBa2Cu3O4 samples synthesized by their traveling-solvent floating-zone
method. However, their results have yet to be reproduced in the
literature.

This work supported by NSF Grant No. DMR-94-03895 and Lawrence Livermore
National Laboratory through U.S. DOE Contract No. W-7405-ENG-48.

## References

* [1] H. B. Radousky, J. Mater. Res. Soc. **7**, 1917 (1992), and
references therein. * [2] D. Khomskii, J. Supercond. **6**, 69 (1993). *
[3] T. J. Goodwin _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **55**, 3297 (1997). * [4] T.
J. Goodwin _et al._, Physica C **204**, 212 (1992). * [5] R. Li _et
al._, J. Solid State Chem. **94**, 206 (1991). * [6] R. J. Cava _et
al._, Physica C **191**, 237 (1992). * [7] I. Felner _et al._, Phys.
Rev. B **49**, 6903 (1994). * [8] T. J. Goodwin _et al._
(unpublished). * [9] T. J. Goodwin _et al._ (unpublished). * [10] Yunhui
Xu _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **45**, 3176 (1992). * [11] S. C. Cheng _et
al._, Phys. Rev. B **53**, 11 779 (1996). * [12] C. H. Chou _et al._,
Phys. Rev. B **53**, 6729 (1996), and references therein. * [13] Zhen
Guo _et al._, Physica C **220**, 41 (1994); Y. Yamada _et al._,
_ibid._**231**, 131 (1994). * [14] Pan Wei _et al._, Physica C **209**,
400 (1993). * [15] L. F. Mattheiss, Phys. Rev. B **46**, 11 171
(1992). * [16] R. Fehrenbacher and T. M. Rice, Phys. Rev. Lett. **70**,
3471 (1993). * [17] A. I. Liechtenstein and I. I. Mazin, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **74**, 1000 (1995). * [18] Zhigan Zou, Kunihiko Oka, Toshimitsu
Ito, and Yoshikazu Nishihara, Jpn. J. Appl. Phys., 2 **36**, L18 (1997).
