# Critical magnetic fields of superconducting Ba₆C₆₀

V. Korenivski and K. V. Rao

Department of Condensed Matter Physics, Royal Institute of Technology,
10044 Stockholm, Sweden

Z. Iqbal

Allied Signal Inc., Research and Technology, Morristown, New Jersey
07962

###### Abstract

We have measured the upper and lower critical fields of superconducting
Ba₆C₆₀. Near T_(c) , from the slope of the measured upper critical
field, dH_(c2)/dT = 0.45 T/K, we obtain the zero-temperature
Ginzburg-Landau coherence length as $\xi_{\rm GL}$ = 120 A. Using the
lower critical-field data, the penetration depth at T = 0 is estimated
to be λ(0) = 1800 A. Combining λ(0) with the value of $\xi_{\rm GL}$ ,
we estimate the Fermi energy E_(F) to be = 0.15 eV. Thus, in comparison
with the alkali-metal-doped fullerenes, the superconducting parameters
H_(c2), $\xi_{\rm GL}$, and the resulting Ginzburg-Landau parameter κ,
are significantly different in the case of the superconducting Ba-doped
fullerene.

The discovery of superconductivity in metal-doped C₆₀ compounds[1, 2]
has stimulated significant theoretical and experimental interest. For
all alkali-metal-intercalated ful- lrides the superconducting phase has
a face-centered cubic (fcc) structure[3] with a stoichiometry A₃C₆₀
(where A is an alkali metal). Magnetic measurements on the two members
of the family (Refs. [4, 5, 6]), K₃C₆₀ (with a transition temperature
T_(c) = 19 K) and Rb₃C₆₀ (T_(c) = 29 K), have shown that both these
materials are extreme type-II superconductors with Ginzburg-Landau (GL)
parameters κ≈100. It has been found[7] that fcc C₆₀ can be intercalated
with divalent group calcium intercalant, and that near Ca:C₆₀ ratio of
5:1 a phase transformation occurs to a simple-cubic phase which becomes
superconducting below 8.4 K. This result on calcium-C₆₀ compound
demonstrates that superconductivity in fullerene alloys is not limited
to alkali-metal doping alone. Recently, superconductivity (T_(c) = 7 K)
has also been discovered in a barium intercalated fulleride[8] with a
stoichiometry Ba₆C₆₀, in a pure body-centered phase. However, to the
best of our knowledge no detailed study of the parameters for the Ca- or
Ba-doped superconductors has been reported. In this paper we present our
measurements of the upper and lower critical magnetic fields of the
Ba₆C₆₀ compound. Using the critical field data we evaluate the coherence
length ξ, and penetration depth λ. We also discuss possible implications
of the results obtained.

The Ba₆C₆₀ samples were prepared via the metal azide route according to
the procedure described by Iqbal _et al._,[9] using C₆₀ (99.9

The low-field magnetization measurements showed a well-defined
transition into a superconducting state with T_(c) = 7 K. The data
showed that even at 2 K the observed magnetization was far from
saturation (about 12

The value of the upper critical field is an important quantity since it
gives direct information about microscopic parameters among which is the
superconducting coherence length. From the SQUID data for the
magnetization we determine the coherence length at T = 0 K, using a
well-known approach,[11] as follows: A typical set of magnetic data
obtained at two different applied fields, 0.1 and 0.4 T, respectively,
are shown in Fig. 1(a). Along with the suppression of T_(c) at higher
fields we observe a linear reversible regime in M(T) close to and below
T_(c) which is indicative of the absence of vortex pinning and expected
from GL theory where the magnetization is linearly proportional to |1 -
T/T_(c)| near the transition.[12] The field-dependent critical
temperature T_(c)(H) is thus determined as the intercept of a linear
extrapolation of the magnetization in the superconducting state with the
normal-state base line. We note that in the vicinity T_(c) the observed
rounding in the M(T) dependence might be caused by diamagnetic
fluctuations. The suppression of T_(c)(H) with the "critical field"
H_(c2) at that temperature is shown in Fig. 1(b). A linear dependence
adequately fits the temperature dependence of the so defined H_(c2) with
a slope of 0.45 T/K. It may be useful to mention that the value of
dH_(c2)/dT determined from an approach in which the temperature at which
M(T) starts to deviate from the normal state value is within 10

The lower critical field was determined from the ZFC initial
magnetization data. The sample was cooled from above T_(c) down to
T<T_(c) in zero field (remanent field of about 0.1 Oe). Once the
temperature was stabilized the magnetic field was applied and the
magnetization measured versus increasing field magnitude. We define the
lower critical field H_(c1)(T) as 1/(1 - _n_) times the lowest applied
field at which the magnetization deviates from the linear behavior, and
the external field starts to penetrate the sample. The lower critical
field obtained in this way is shown in Fig. 2 as a function of
temperature. The data fit well to the two-fluid expression for the
temperature dependence of H_(c1): H_(c1)(T) = H_(c1)(0)[1 − (T/T_(c))⁴]
(solid line in Fig. 2). From the fitting we extrapolate the lower
critical field at zero temperature H_(c1)(0) = 130 Oe. Using the
relation:[12]H_(c1)(0) = (Φ₀/4πλ)ln(λ/${}_{\rm GL}$), we estimate λ(0) =
1800 A and hence, the GL parameter κ = λ/${}_{\rm GL}$ = 15.

The superconducting parameters determined for Ba₆C₆₀ are compared in
Table 1 with the values obtained for K₃C₆₀ and Rb₃C₆₀. From this table
it is obvious that the Ba₆C₆₀ compound differs substantially from the
alkali-metal-doped C₆₀ systems in its superconducting properties.
Besides the T_(c) , which is for example three times lower compared to
that for K₃C₆₀, the upper critical field is extremely low, i.e.,
$H_{c2,{\rm Ba}}(0)$ = 2.2 T which is = 0.045×$H_{c2,{\rm K}0}$(0),
resulting in a relatively long coherence length, $\xi_{\rm Ba}(0)$ =
5×$\xi_{\rm K}(0)$. The difference in H_(c2) cannot be accounted for
just by the difference in T_(c) as may be done[4, 5] for K₃C₆₀ and
Rb₃C₆₀ systems where the upper critical field slopes are approximately
equal and the extrapolated critical field values at T = 0 are
proportional to T_(c) . The hypothetical value of H_(c2) for Ba₆C₆₀
estimated using the critical field slope of K₃C₆₀ and T_(c) = 7 K would
be about 20 T which is an order of magnitude greater than the observed
value. Obviously, we are dealing with a system having much weaker
coupling strength, resulting in a much lower transition temperature and
upper critical field, and as a result, much longer coherence length. An
estimate of the coupling strength in Ba₆C₆₀ based on the analyses in
Ref. 20 assuming coupling to the same low-energy intramolecular phonons
($\Omega_{\rm ph}$ = 250 cm⁻¹), μ^(⋆) = 0.2 and the measured T_(c) gives
λ = 0.8 which is to be compared with λ = 1.5 for K₃C₆₀ and λ ≈ 2.1 for
Rb₃C₆₀. Thus, the coupling strength in Ba₃C₆₀, being in the intermediate
range, is significantly weaker than that for the alkali-metal
fullerides.

Several models have been proposed to explain superconductivity in the
metal-doped fullerenes. Among them is the model based on phonon-mediated
pairing employing either higher energy (0.12 eV) intramolecular
modes[14, 15] or low-energy (0.02 eV) metal-C₆₀ intermolecular
modes[16]. A model of a superconducting state in the fullerides with
purely electronic pairing mechanism has also been proposed[17]. Recent
isotope effect experiments on Rb₃C₆₀ have yielded a sizable shift in
T_(c) indicating that the lattice is involved in pair formation[18, 19].
The analysis carried out in Ref. 20 (also dis

Figure 1: (a) Temperature dependence of the field-cooled magnetization
of Ba₆C₆₀ in external magnetic fields of 0.1 and 0.4 T respectively. (b)
The upper critical field as a function of temperature for Ba₆C₆₀.

Figure 2: Temperature dependence of the lower critical field of the
Ba₆C₆₀ superconductor. The inset shows a typical determination of H_(c1)
from the deviation of the magnetization Δ_m_, in the zero-field-cooled
initial magnetization data at 4 K.

cussed above) supports a model of superconductivity with intermediate to
strong coupling via low-energy intramolecular phonons. Within the
phononic mechanism there have been indications of weak, intermediate,
and strong coupling in A₃C₆₀ systems (see, e.g., Refs. [18] and
[21]-[24]). Most of the experimental results and in particular
variations of T_(c) can be explained on the basis of the weak-coupling
BCS model with the density of states at the Fermi level varying with the
structure (see, e.g., Refs. [5, 14, 15], and [25]). However, in order to
account for the measured T_(c)’s within the weak-coupling BCS model
high-energy ($\Omega_{\rm ph}$= 0.1 to 0.15 eV) intramolecular modes
must be employed, and since the Fermi energy in the superconducting
fullerides is low (see discussion below and Table 2),
$\Omega_{\rm ph}$=E_(F), which is outside the range of applicability
($\Omega_{\rm ph}$≪E_(F)) for the BCS as well as Eliashberg equations.
This consideration gives further support to the strong-coupling model
[20] described above. Nevertheless we assume the BCS expression for the
superconducting energy gap 2Δ/kT_(c) = 3.5 to be valid, although a
larger value of this ratio corresponding to a stronger coupling would
not affect the obtained qualitative results.[25] The clean limit
expression for the penetration depth λ(0) = (m^(*)c²/4m_(*)e²)[12] gives
the ground-state value n_(s)/(m^(*)/m_(c)) = 8.75×10²⁰ cm⁻³. Further,
using the coherence length ξ(0) = (hv_(F))/ (πΔ(0) = 1.76kT_(c) = 1 meV,
we obtain the Fermi velocity v_(F) = 6.1×10⁶ cm/s. Combining these two
results we find the Fermi energy E_(F) = 0.15 eV and the effective
electron mass m^(*) = 13m_(e) and n_(s) = 1.14×10²² cm⁻³. This value of
the electron density implies [27] a charge transfer of 1.3 in order to
be consistent with the theoretical value 1.72×10²² cm⁻³ obtained for a
bcc structure with the lattice constant [7] of 11.171 A assuming Ba-C₆₀
charge transfer of 2. In Table 2 we compare the effective mass,
m^(*)/m_(e), Fermi momentum, k_(F), Fermi velocity, v_(F), and Fermi
energy, E_(F), for different superconducting systems, including
fullerides, high-T_(c) ceramics, and conventional metals.

A few comments on the assumptions regarding the "clean-limit"
approximation which forms the basis of the discussions above would be
informative. High resistivities of superconducting fullerenes result in
extremely short mean free paths, if the Drude model is employed. For
instance, the resistivity of the order of 1 mΩ cm in Ba₆C₆₀ films [30]
would imply an extreme dirty limit superconductor with a mean free path
l = 1 - 2 A which is much shorter than the coherence length. This means
that in order to use the clean limit analyses the coherence length and
the penetration depth should be rescaled according to $\xi_{\rm QL}$=
(ξ₀l)^(1/2), λ = λ_(L)(1 + ξ₀/l)^(1/2), in order to obtain the values
for ξ₀ the Pippard coherence length, and λ_(L) the London penetration
depth which are the appropriate parameters in the "dirty-limit." Using
our estimated values $\xi_{\rm QL}$ = 120 A, λ = 1800 A, and l = 2 A we
thus obtain ξ₀ = 7200 A and λ_(L) = 30 A. However, this value 30 A for
the London penetration depth would result in a ground-state value for
the electron density n_(s) equal to 3.2×10²⁴ cm⁻³ [obtained using the
above relationship for the penetration depth and n_(s)/(m^(*)/m_(e))],
which is at least two orders of magnitude greater than the maximum
possible value of 1.72×10²² cm⁻³. There have been several studies
addressing the issue of mean free path in superconducting fullerenes.
Using specific heat and upper critical field data Ramirez _et al._[23]
estimated l to be ∼ 10 A for powder K₃C₆₀. About the same value (10-20
A) was inferred from the magnetotransport studies of K₃C₆₀ films by Wang
_et al._[31] Rotter _et al._[22] obtained a mean free path of ∼ 20 A
from their infrared reflectivity measurements of Rb₃C₆₀ powder. Detailed
longitudinal and Hall effect measurements

  ------------------ ------------- ------------- ------------- ------------- --------------
  Parameter              K₃C₆₀        Rb₃C₆₀        Ba₆C₆₀      La-Sr-Cu-O    Conv. Metals
                                                  (this work)   (Ref. [29])   (Ref. [29])
  k_(F) (10⁷ cm⁻¹)        6.8            6             7            3.5            10
                          3.4                                                
  m^(*)/m_(e)             22            16            13             5            1–15
                          11                                                 
  v_(F) (10⁶ cm/s)        3.6           4.3            6             8          100–200
  E_(F) (eV)             0.08          0.085         0.15           0.1           5–10
                         0.04          ≈0.1                                  
                       0.16–0.3      0.14–0.18                               
                         0.325          0.2                                  
                      0.1 (0.21)    0.08 (0.16)                              
                      0.09 (0.21)   0.07 (0.18)                              
  ------------------ ------------- ------------- ------------- ------------- --------------

Table 2: Electronic parameters of superconducting fullerides, high-T_(c)
oxides, and typical conventional superconducting metals.

of K₃C₆₀ films led Palstra _et al._[32] to conclude that the high
resistivity does not arise from the microscopic disorder, but comes
about from the granular nature of their films, with a grain size of ∼70
A. Fluctuation conductivity studies of K₃C₆₀ and Rb₃C₆₀ single crystals
[33] showed no effects of granularity and gave a lower limit for the
domain size of about 0.6 μm. If we assume the mean free path l = 10 A in
our sample, the dirty limit corrections to the measured coherence length
and penetration depth give ξ₀ = 1440 A and λ_(L) = 150 A. As a result
n_(s)/(m^(*)m_(e)) = 1.26×10²³ cm ⁻³ which is more than one order of
magnitude greater than the theoretical value (since m^(*)m_(e) = 10).
The corresponding value for l = 20 A is n_(s)/(m^(*)/m_(e)) = 3.2×10²²
cm ⁻³, with m^(*)/m_(e)⁻5 yielding n_(s) = 1.7× 10²³ which is still one
order of magnitude too large. On the other hand, l = 70 A gives the
electronic parameters to within a factor of 2 equal to the clean limit
values: ξ₀ = 206A, λ_(L) = 900m^(*)/m_(e) = 12.5, k_(F) = 1.1×10⁸ cm ⁻¹,
v_(F) = 1×10⁷ cm/s and E_(F) = 0.35 eV. However, the electron density
n_(s) = 4.4×10²² cm ⁻³ is still a little too high, implying that the
mean free path should be even longer to account for the measured
quantities and for the analysis to be self-consistent.

Interestingly, regardless of the substantial difference in
superconducting properties, the superconducting fullerides have the same
characteristics for the electronic system. For example, the Fermi
energies found in K₃C₆₀ and Rb₃C₆₀ lie within the range 0.1 to 0.2 eV,
which is exactly in the range at the value (0.15 eV) we have estimated
for Ba₆C₆₀ . A factor of 2 difference in the parameters is well within
the uncertainties in the experimental data and due to assumptions made
in the evaluations. In summary, enhanced effective mass and a Fermi
momentum comparable to those of conventional superconducting metals, in
addition to a small Fermi velocity and Fermi energy (about two orders of
magnitude smaller than those in metals) appear to be the key features of
superconducting fullerides. Table II also suggests that fullerene-based
superconductors are similar to high-T_(c) superconductors as far as
electronic properties are concerned. However, in contrast to the
high-T_(c) cuprates with large anisotropy which has a strong impact on
their physical properties, the fullerides have cubic lattice structures.

In conclusion, we have measured the magnetic properties of Ba₆C₆₀
superconductor with T_(c) = 7 K and a bcc lattice structure. The
evaluated superconducting parameters, such as the upper critical field
slope and the coherence length, differ substantially from those in K₃
and Rb₃C₆₀ compounds possessing an fcc structure, indicating that Ba₆C₆₀
is a weaker coupled superconducting system than the other members of the
C₆₀ family. Further studies are required to explain the interconnection
between the structure and superconducting properties. What is
remarkable, is that the parameters describing one-particle excitations
are found to be roughly the same for alkali- and alkaline-earth-C₆₀
systems, and very similar to those found in high-T_(c) cuprate
superconductors.

We thank Dr. Hebard and Professor Kresin for many discussions and
comments on this work. V. K. acknowledges research grants from the
Swedish Institute and the Royal Institute of Technology under the
Swedish-East European Program. This research was supported by the
Swedish Material Science Consortium on "Clusters and Ultrafine
Particles," the Swedish funding agencies NFR and NUTEK.

## References

* [1] A. F. Hebard _et al._, Nature **350**, 600 (1991). * [2] M. J.
Rosseinsky _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **66**, 2830 (1991). * [3] See,
for example, R. M. Fleming _et al._, Nature **352**, 787 (1991). * [4]
K. Holczer _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **67**, 271 (1991). * [5] G. Sparn
_et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **68**, 1228 (1992). * [6] C. Politis _et
al._, Europhys. Lett. **17**, 175 (1992). * [7] A. R. Kortan _et al._,
Nature **355**, 529 (1992). * [8] A. R. Kortan _et al._, Nature **360**,
566 (1992). * [9] Z. Iqbal _et al._ (unpublished). * [10] D. Shoenberg,
_Superconductivity_ (Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, 1952). *
[11] U. Welp _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **62**, 1908 (1989). * [12] M.
Tinkham, _Introduction to Superconductivity_ (Cambridge University
Press, Cambridge, 1952). * [13] N. R. Werthamer _et al._, Phys. Rev.
**147**, 295 (1966). * [14] M. Schluter _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**68**, 526 (1992). * [15] C. M. Varma _et al._, Science **254**, 989
(1991). * [16] F. C. Zhang _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **67**, 3452
(1991). * [17] S. Chakravarty _et al._, Science **254**, 970 (1991). *
[18] A. P. Ramirez _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **68**, 1058 (1992). *
[19] C.-C. Chen and C. M. Lieber, Science **259**, 655 (1993). * [20] V.
L. Kresin, Phys. Rev. B **46**, 14 883 (1992). * [21] R. Tycko _et al._,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **68**, 1912 (1992). * [22] L. D. Rotter _et al._,
Nature **355**, 532 (1992). * [23] A. P. Ramirez _et al._, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **69**, 1687 (1992). * [24] Z. Zhang _et al._, Nature **353**, 333
(1991). * [25] R. M. Fleming _et al._, Nature **352**, 787 (1991). *
[26] The correction to the weak-coupling value of the energy gap can be
obtained using (Ref. [29]) 2Δ/T_(c) = 3.52[1 + 5.3(T_(c) /
$\Omega_{\rm ph}$)²ln($\Omega_{\rm ph}$/T_(c))], which for
$\Omega_{\rm ph}$ = 250 cm ⁻¹ and T_(c) = 7 K gives 2Δ/T_(c) = 3.55, the
BCS value to within 1 * [27] Recent local-density approximation
calculations show partial charge transfer in Ba₆C₆₀, see S. C. Erwin and
M. R. Pederson, Phys. Rev. B **47**, 14 657 (1993); S. Saito and A.
Oshiyama, Phys. Rev. Lett. **71**, 121 (1993). * [28] Y. J. Uemura _et
al._, Nature **352**, 605 (1991). * [29] V. Z. Kresin and S. A. Wolf,
_Fundamentals of Superconductivity_ (Plenum, New York, 1990). * [30] R.
C. Haddon _et al._, Chem. Phys. Lett. **203**, 433 (1993). * [31] Z. H.
Wang _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **47**, 15 354 (1993). * [32] T. T. M.
Palstra _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **68**, 1054 (1992). * [33] X.-D.
Xiang _et al._, Nature **361**, 54 (1993). * [34] S. Saito and A.
Oshiyama, Phys. Rev. B **44**, 11 536 (1991); S. C. Erwin and W. E.
Pickett, Science **254**, 842 (1991); D. L. Novikov _et al._, Physica C
**191**, 399 (1992); I. Turek and J. Hafner, Phys. Rev. B **48**, 14 925
(1993); V. P. Antropov _et al._, _ibid._**47**, 12 373 (1993). * [35] T.
Inabe _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **69**, 3797 (1992). * [36] R. Tycko
_et al._, Science **253**, 884 (1991). * [37] A. F. Hebard, Phys. Today
**45**, 26 (1992).
