# Upper critical field of the pressure-induced superconductor EuFe₂As₂

Nobuyuki Kurita,^(1, 2) Motoi Kimata,^(1, 2) Kota Kodama,^(1, 3) Atsushi
Harada,¹ Megumi Tomita,¹ Hiroyuki S. Suzuki,¹ Takeiho Matsumoto,¹ Keizo
Murata,⁴ Shinya Uji,^(1, 2, 3) and Taichi Terashima^(1, 2)

¹National Institute for Materials Science, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 305-0003,
Japan

²JST, Transformative Research Project on Iron Pnictides (TRIP), Chiyoda,
Tokyo 102-0075, Japan

³Graduate School of Pure and Applied Sciences, University of Tsukuba,
Ibaraki 305-0003, Japan

⁴Division of Molecular Materials Science, Graduate School of Science,
Osaka City University, Osaka 558-8585, Japan

⁵Makushi Nagamatsu,¹ Hiroyuki S. Suzuki,¹ Takeiho Matsumoto,¹ Keizo
Murata,⁴ Shinya Uji,^(1, 2, 3) and Taichi Terashima^(1, 2)

###### Abstract

We have carried out high-field resistivity measurements up to 27 T in
EuFe₂As₂ at P = 2.5 GPa, a virtually optimal pressure for the P-induced
superconductivity, where $T_{\rm c}$ = 30 K. The
$B_{\rm c2}$−$T_{\rm c}$ phase diagram has been constructed in a wide
temperature range with a minimum temperature of 1.6 K (≈0.05
×$T_{\rm c}$), for both B | ab ($B_{\rm c2}^{\rm h}$) and B | c
($B_{\rm c2}^{\rm h}$). The upper critical fields
$B_{\rm c2}^{\rm h}$(0) and $B_{\rm c2}^{\rm h}$(0), determined by the
onset of resistive transitions, are 25 and 22 T, respectively, which are
significantly smaller than those of other Fe-based superconductors with
similar values of $T_{\rm c}$. The small $B_{\rm c2}$(0) values and the
$B_{\rm c2}$(T) curves with positive curvature around 20 K can be
explained by a multiple pair-breaking model that includes the exchange
field due to the magnetic Eu²⁺ moments. The anisotropy parameter,
$\Gamma=B_{\rm c2}^{\rm h}$/$B_{\rm c2}^{\rm h}$, in EuFe₂As₂ at low
temperatures is comparable to that of other "122" Fe-based systems.

pacs: DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.83.100501 PACS number(s): 74.70.Xa,
74.25.Op, 74.25.Dw, 74.62.Fj + Footnote †: preprint: APS/123-QED

The discovery of superconductivity in LaFeAs(O,F) at $T_{\rm c}$ = 26 K
[1] has inspired experimental and theoretical research on a group of
FeAs-layered superconductors (SCs). [2] Basically, Fe-based
high-$T_{\rm c}$ superconductivity [3, 4, 5] occurs when the
antiferromagnetic (AF) order in the mother compounds is suppressed by
means of carrier doping, [1] application of pressure (P), [6] or
isovalent substitution. [7] As compared to other methods in studying
such interplay between magnetism and superconductivity, pressure
experiments have a significant advantage in that they are free from
random impurity potentials that may distort the underlying physics of
the low-lying energy states. Among the various crystal structures,
tetragonal ThCr₂Si₂-type ("122") compounds have been investigated more
intensively owing to the availability of highly pure stoichiometric
single crystals. In particular, AFFe₂As₂ (A = Sr, Eu) exhibits P-induced
bulk superconductivity with $T_{\rm c}$ of order 30 K. [8, 9] In
contrast, superconductivity under hydrostatic pressure is not exhibited
by CaFe₂As₂, [10] and its occurrence in BaFe₂As₂ has not been
established definitively. [8, 11]

A fundamental characteristic of SCs is the upper critical field
$B_{\rm c2}$. $B_{\rm c2}$ has its roots in the breakdown of Cooper
pairs; hence, the $B_{\rm c2}$−$T_{\rm c}$ phase diagram provides
important insights into the pairing mechanism of high-$T_{\rm c}$
superconductivity. Thus far, to our knowledge, there have been no
reports on $B_{\rm c2}$ for P-induced Fe-based SCs at low temperatures.
This is mainly attributed to the difficulty in conducting high-pressure
experiments on high-$T_{\rm c}$ SCs under a high field. In the case of
SrFe₂As₂ ($T_{\rm c}$ = 30 K at 4.2 GPa), a field of 8 T brings about a
small reduction in $T_{\rm c}$ (i.e., to 27 K) for B | ab. [13] Assuming
an orbitally limited case, [12]$B_{\rm c2}$ (T = 0 K) could exceed 60 T.
[13] However, the low temperature region of the $B_{\rm c2}$ curve,
where paramagnetic and/or multiband effects may play important roles,
[14] merits investigation.

In the case of EuFe₂As₂ ($T_{\rm c}$ = 30 K at ∼2.5 GPa), $B_{\rm c2}$
is relatively small (i.e., ∼16 T between 5 and 10 K) [9] and hence can
be traced down to very low temperatures. EuFe₂As₂ is unique in that the
localized Eu²⁺ moments exhibit an AF order below 20 K [15, 16, 17, 18,
19] in addition to an AF order arising from the FeAs layers at T₀∼190 K.
$T_{\rm N}$ of the Eu²⁺ moments is insensitive to pressure, and the AF
order occurs in the P-induced superconducting state as evidenced by
magnetic and heat capacity measurements under high pressure. [20, 21, 9,
22] Despite the AF order, which is produced by a weak interlayer
interaction, the dominant interaction among the Eu²⁺ moments is the
intralayer ferromagnetic (FM) interaction, and hence the FM alignment of
the Eu²⁺ moments is easily achieved by the application of 1 ∼ 2 T even
below $T_{\rm N}$ at ambient pressure as well as under high pressure.
[20, 18, 21, 9, 23, 24] Thus, EuFe₂As₂ provides an excellent opportunity
where a long-standing issue of the interplay between superconductivity
and magnetism can be studied in a high-$T_{\rm c}$ material using
high-quality single crystals.

In this report, we present the $B_{\rm c2}$−$T_{\rm c}$ phase diagram of
EuFe₂As₂ at a pressure of 2.5 GPa and minimum temperature of 1.6 K via
high-field resistivity measurements up to 27 T, and discuss the origin
of the distinctive $B_{\rm c2}$ curves.

Single crystals of EuFe₂As₂ were prepared via the Bridgman method from a
stoichiometric mixture of the constituent elements. The samples analyzed
in this study were obtained from the same batch (residual resistivity
ratio RR = 7) as that used in Refs. [9, 21], and [23]. The resistivity
of two samples, denoted by ${}^{\rm h}$1 and ${}^{\rm g}$2, was
simultaneously measured at P = 2.5 GPa via an ac four-probe method in a
⁴He cryostat (T≥ 1.6 K). Sample ${}^{\rm h}$1 (${}^{\rm g}$2) was
aligned with the ab plane (c axis) parallel to the longitudinal
direction of a hybrid-type piston cylinder pressure cell [25] for B | ab
( ∥ c) measurements. For both samples, the magnetic field was applied
along the piston cylinder axis in a direction perpendicular to that of
the current. To generate hydrostatic pressure, Daphne 7474 (Idemitsu
Kosan) oil, which remains in the liquid state up to 3.7 GPa at room
temperature, [26] was used as the pressure-transmitting medium. The
samples were gradually cooled at an average rate of 0.5 K/min. The
pressure was calibrated at 4.2 K by the resistance change of a Manganin
wire.[9] Magnetic fields up to 27 T were produced by a water-cooled
resistive magnet installed at the Tsukuba Magnet Laboratory, National
Institute for Materials Science. A 17-T superconducting magnet was used
for preliminary resistivity studies. In this study, the magnetic field B
denotes an externally applied field, and the magnetization within a
sample (up to ∼0.9 T²³) is neglected.

Figure 1 shows the temperature dependence of the resistivity, ρ(T), for
the two samples, *1 and *2, at P = 2.5 GPa in the absence of an applied
field. For both samples, ρ exhibits virtually T-linear dependence in the
broad temperature range above $T_{\rm c}$ without any anomaly due to the
AF order of the FeAs layers. This observation is consistent with the
phase diagram shown in the inset:[20, 29]P = 2.5 GPa is just above the
critical pressure $P_{\rm c}$, where T₀ → 0, as indicated by the arrow.
Similar ρ ∼ T behavior was also reported in several optimally doped
Fe-based SCs.[27, 28] However, the reason for such behavior is unclear.
Both samples exhibit a sharp transition to zero resistivity at
$T_{\rm c}=30$ K; the reentrant-like behavior as reported in Ref. [20]
is not observed for either sample at this pressure. Our previous
work[21] indicates that reentrant-like behavior may be observed for
$P<P_{\rm c}$ but not for $P>P_{\rm c}$ (as long as P is not far from
$P_{\rm c}$) in our single crystals. Since both $T_{\rm c}$ and
$B_{\rm c2}$ attain maximum values at $P\approx P_{\rm c}$, followed by
a monotonic decrease with increasing P,[29]$B_{\rm c2}$ determined at
2.5 GPa in this study is expected to be close to its maximum value.

Figures 2(a)-2(d) shows the resistivity of EuFe₂As₂ at 2.5 GPa as a
function of B and T for the two orientations B ∥ ab and B ∥ c. A
magnetic field of 27 T is sufficient to recover the normal state at the
minimum temperature, 1.6 K (≈0.5 ×$T_{\rm c}$), for both orientations.
Using the data in Figs. 2(a) and 2(b), the $B_{\rm c2}$-$T_{\rm c}$
phase diagram of EuFe₂As₂ is constructed for B ∥ ab at 2.5 GPa, as shown
in Fig. 3. Three sets–$B_{\rm c2}^{\rm eq}$ (onset), and
$B_{\rm c2}^{\rm eq}$ (x = 0 and 50, x

A distinctive feature, the concave (upward) curvature of
$B_{\rm c2}^{\rm ab}$ around 20 K, seems to be absent from other
Fe-based SCs without localized magnetic ions. Therefore, it is likely
related to the magnetic state of the Eu²⁺ moments. Similar concave
$B_{\rm c2}(T)$ curves have been reported in Chevrel-phase compounds
such as (Eu,M)Mo₆S₈ (M= Sn,[30] La,[31] etc.) and EuMo₆S₈ under
pressure.[32] In these systems, the conduction electrons are subjected
to an exchange field B_(J) in addition to an applied field via AF
coupling with the Eu²⁺ localized magnetic moments. Note that the concave
curvature is an indication of the negative sign of B_(J); B_(J) is
antiparallel to the applied field.[32, 33] Within a multiple
pair-breaking picture, $B_{\rm c2}$ in the dirty limit of
three-dimensional SCs with negative B_(J) can be expressed by[34, 12]

$$\ln\frac{1}{t} = \left(\frac{1}{2}+\frac{i\lambda_{\rm so}}{4\gamma}\right)\times \Psi\left(\frac{1}{2}+\frac{h+i\lambda_{\rm so}/2+i\gamma}{2t}\right)$$
(1)
$$+\left(\frac{1}{2}-\frac{i\lambda_{\rm so}}{4\gamma}\right)\times \Psi\left(\frac{1}{2}+\frac{h+i\lambda_{\rm so}/2-i\gamma}{2t}\right)-\Psi \left(\frac{1}{2}\right)$$
$$\gamma = \left[\alpha^{2}(h+h_{J})^{2}-\lambda_{\rm so}^{2}\right]^{\frac{1 }{2}},$$

where Ψ and $\lambda_{\rm so}$ are the digamma function and spin-orbit
scattering parameter, respectively. The magnetic scattering

Figure 1: (Color online) ρ vs T for EuFe₂As₂ at P = 2.5 GPa for samples
*1 and *2 in the absence of applied field. The direction of current I is
I ∥ ab. The inset illustrates the T − P phase diagram of EuFe₂As₂.[29]T₀
and $T_{\rm N}$ denote the temperatures of the AF order arising from the
FeAs layers and localized Eu²⁺ moments, respectively. The solid circles
denote $T_{\rm c}$ determined under the criterion ρ = 0. The crosses
denote the values obtained from Ref. [20].

parameter $\lambda_{\rm m}$ used in the complete formula [12, 34] is
typically ignored for simplicity [32, 35]. The Maki parameter α is
defined as $\sqrt{2}$$B_{\rm c2}^{*}/B_{\rm p}$, using the orbital
critical field $B_{\rm c3}^{*}$ at T = 0 and the Pauli-Clogston
paramagnetic limit $B_{\rm p}^{0}$[16]. Reduced
units–$t\!=\!T/T_{\rm c}$, h = 0.281$B_{\rm c2}/B_{\rm c2}^{*}$, and
h_(J) = 0.281$B_{J}/B_{\rm c2}^{*}$–are employed. We assume B_(J) = βM
(β: constant), where the magnetization M is modeled within a
molecular-field approximation [37]. To simplify the following
discussions, α for B ∥ ab is set to 3, a typical value for "122"
systems.

The solid curve in Fig. 3 was calculated from Eq. (1) for
$B_{\rm c2}^{0}$ data with $T_{\rm c}$ set to the experimental value
$T_{\rm c}\!=\!29$ K. The fit yields a parameter set (λ_(∞), β) = (7.9,
−187). β = −187 indicates that the maximum of |B_(J)|, B_(J)^(n), is
around 168 T. The fit captures the qualitative characteristics of the
experimental $B_{\rm c2}^{0}$ curve satisfactorily, especially the
positive curvature below $T_{\rm N}\!=\!20$ K, and shows that the low
value of $B_{\rm c2}$ (compared to other Fe-based SCs’ with similar
$T_{\rm c}$ values) is due to the large B_(J), which is a consequence of
a large Eu²⁺ magnetization due to the field-induced FM alignment of the
Eu²⁺ moments. However, its deviation from the experimental curve is also
noticeable at low fields near $T_{\rm c}$. This disagreement probably
indicates that the phase diagram in this T-range is affected by a subtle
competition between superconductivity and magnetic fluctuations, and it
is beyond the scope of Eq. (1), which assumes a homogeneous B_(J)
produced by paramagnetic spins. Since the dominant interaction among the
Eu²⁺ moments is the intralayer FM interaction [18, 19, 23, 22], the FM
fluctuations develop when T is lowered to $T_{\rm N}$, as evidenced by
the enhancement of the magnetic susceptibility as $T\to T_{\rm N}$[9,
19, 23]. Such FM fluctuations may be detrimental to superconductivity.
One way to phenomenologically overcome this problem and to improve the
fit in a T-range not close to $T_{\rm c}$ is to use a reduced value of
$T_{\rm c}$. Thus, the three dotted curves are calculated using the
reduced $T_{\rm c}$ value. They reproduce the experimental curves
excellently over the entire T-range, with a minimum temperature of 1.6
K. For $B_{\rm c2}^{0}$, we assumed ($\lambda_{\rm so}$, β, $T_{\rm c}$)
= (2.7, −83, 24 K), where B_(J)^(n) ∼ 75 T. Here, it may be worthwhile
to compare the parameters with those of the Chevrel compounds. The
comparison revealed that he obtained $\lambda_{\rm so}$ is comparable to
that found in the Chevrel-type Eu compounds [32, 35], and B_(J)^(m) in
EuFe₂As₂ is a few times greater than that reported in the Chevrel-type
Eu compounds [32, 35]. We note that the concave curvature of
$B_{\rm c2}$ in EuFe₂As₂ essentially differs from the positive
curvatures often observed in highly two-dimensional SCs such as
high-$T_{\rm c}$ cuprates. In the latter, the curvature is highly
dependent on what criterion is chosen to define $B_{\rm c2}$, and it is
most likely affected by the vortex lattice phase transitions (i.e., from
a vortex-liquid state to a vortex-solid state) [38].

Figure 4(a) shows the $B_{\rm c2}\!-\!T_{\rm c}$ phase diagram of
EuFe₂As₂ for B ∥ c at 2.5 GPa [39], determined in the same manner as
that used for $B_{\rm c2}^{0}$. A concave curvature around 20 K is also
visible for the $B_{\rm c2}^{0}$ curves. The dashed curves are
calculated using the parameters comparable to those used for
$B_{\rm c2}^{0}$, that is, for $B_{\rm c2}^{0}$, the fit gives (α,
$\lambda_{\rm so}$) = (1.9, 2.6) when we assume

Figure 3: (Color online) $B_{\rm c2}\!-\!T_{\rm c}$ phase diagram of
EuFe₂As₂ for B ∥ ab at 2.5 GPa. The values of $R_{\rm c2}$ are
determined under three different criteria, as illustrated for ρ(B) data
at 4.2 K (inset). The solid or open symbols denote $B_{\rm c2}$
determined from ρ(B) and ρ(T) measurements, respectively. The solid and
dashed curves are fits to Eq. (1). × denotes the previous
$B_{\rm c2}^{0}$ result deduced from an ac-χ measurement for B ∥ ab. [9]
The arrow indicates $T_{\rm N}$ of Eu²⁺ moments in the superconducting
state in the absence of an applied field at 2.6 GPa [2]

(_b_, _T_c) = (-83, 24 K), identical to the values used for
$B_{\rm c2}^{ab}$. The calculated curves tend to saturate below 3 K,
whereas the experimental curves appear to increase linearly as T
decreases to zero. The unsaturation of $B_{\rm c2}^{c}$ has been
observed in other Fe-based SCs, [14, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48,
49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 62, 63, 64, 65, 66,
67, 68, 69, 70, 71, 72, 73, 74, 75, 76, 77, 78, 79, 80, 81, 82, 83, 84,
85, 86, 87, 88, 89, 90, 91,
