Oxygen isotope effect in Bi₂Sr₂Ca_(n − 1)Cu_(n)O_(2n + 4 + δ) (n=1,2,3)
single crystals

Xiao-Jia Chen

Geppens Ulrich

Max-Planck-Institut fur Festkorperforschung, D-70569 Stuttgart, Germany
Department of Physics, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong,
China

Bing Liang

Max-Planck-Institut fur Festkorperforschung, D-70569 Stuttgart, Germany

Clemens Ulrich

Max-Planck-Institut fur Festkorperforschung, D-70569 Stuttgart, Germany

Cheng-Tian Lin

Max-Planck-Institut fur Festkorperforschung, D-70569 Stuttgart, Germany

Viktor V. Struzhkin

Geppens Ulrich

Max-Planck-Institut fur Festkorperforschung, D-70569 Stuttgart, Germany

Zhigang Wu

Geophysical Laboratory, Carnegie Institution of Washington, Washington,
DC 20015, USA

Russell J. Hemley

Geophysical Laboratory, Carnegie Institution of Washington, Washington,
DC 20015, USA

Ho-Kwang Mao

Geophysical Laboratory, Carnegie Institution of Washington, Washington,
DC 20015, USA

Hai-Qing Lin

Max-Planck-Institut fur Festkorperforschung, D-70569 Stuttgart, Germany

exhibits@mpia.mpg.de

###### Abstract

We report measurements of the oxygen isotope effect in
Bi₂Sr₂CaCu_(n − 1)Cu_(n)O_(2n + 4 + δ) (n=1,2,3) single crystals. For
optimally doped materials the isotope exponent is found to decrease with
increasing the number of CuO₂ layers in a manner of inversely
correlating with the superconducting transition temperature in this
homologous family. This behavior is in contrast to the general belief
that the isotope effect can be negligible for the optimally doped
cuprates. Our results highlight the important role played by phonons and
interlayer coupling in the high-temperature superconductivity.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.76.140502 PACS number(s): 74.25.Kc, 74.62.Dh,
74.72.−h, 82.20.Tr + Footnote †: preprint: APS/123-QED

The coupling mechanism which causes high-temperature superconductivity
in cuprates remains a challenging issue in condensed matter physics.
Although it is generally believed that antiferromagnetism is important
for superconductivity, there has been growing experimental evidence[1,
2, 3, 4, 5] for the role of phonons in the electronic state. Isotope
effects provide a good indication for electron-phonon interaction. Gweon
_et al.[3]_ reported a large isotope effect on the electronic structure
involving shifts of the band bottom as large as 10−40 meV in optimally
doped Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O_(8 + δ) (Bi2212) using angle-resolved photoemission
spectroscopy (ARPES), indicating that the coupling between the lattice
and electrons plays an important role. Douglas _et al.[4]_ in contract
found no large isotope effect in the same material, but concluded that
their measurements are not inconsistent with a conventional isotope
shift of the order of 3 meV. Based on d²I/dV² imaging measurements using
scanning tunneling microscopy (STM), Lee _et al.[5]_ obtained a bosonic
mode of Bi2212 irrespective of doping level with energy of 52 meV which
was identified as a lattice mode from the observed 6

The isotope effect on T_(c) as a direct experimental probe in revealing
electron-phonon coupling supported phonon-mediated pairing in
conventional superconductors. Such studies[7] in cuprate
superconductors, particularly in YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) and
La_(2 − δ)Sr_(x)CuO₄, have established that T_(c) exhibits a weak shift
upon isotope substitution at optimal doping where T_(c) is maximal.
Recent experiments[8, 9] suggested a sharp transition in quasiparticle
dynamics precisely at optimal doping. Neutron diffraction data[10] also
showed a sharp change of the in-plane Cu-O bond distribution at optimal
doping, underscoring a strong electron-phonon coupling. It is apparently
crucial to investigate superconducting properties at this magic doping
level. The striking feature of cuprate superconductors is the appearance
of the CuO₂ plane. Even at optimal doping, T_(c) initially increases
with increasing the number of CuO₂ layers within a unit cell in a
homologous layered system. It is still unknown how the CuO₂-layer number
affects the isotope effect in a homologous series. Although mercury- and
thallium-based families have relatively high T_(c)’s, the oxygen-isotope
studies in both systems are very difficult due to the complexity of the
self-doping defect involving the partial substitution of copper for
mercury[11] or thallium.[12] Among the various layered families
discovered so far, the bismuth-based series then becomes the only
promotional candidate for such a purpose. Unlike other families, all
members of the bismuth-based family have high-quality single crystals
available. Moreover, most systematic data of ARPES[1, 2, 3, 4] and
STM[5] were collected in bismuth-based single crystals, allowing direct
comparison for clarifying the phonon contribution to superconductivity.

In this work we report measurements of the oxygen isotope effect in
Bi₂Sr₂Ca_(n − 1)Cu_(n)O_(2n + 4 + δ) (n=1,2,3) single crystals. We find
that the optimally doped monolayer material has a sizeable oxygen
isotope exponent α. However, α decreases monotonically with the number
of CuO₂ layers in a way opposite to T_(c) in this homologous family at
optimal doping. This behavior directly points to the importance of
electron-phonon interactions as well as the interlayer coupling effect
in layered cuprates.

Single crystals of Bi₂Sr_(1.6)La_(0.4)CuO_(6 + δ) (Bi2201),
Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O_(8 + δ) (Bi2212), and Bi₂Sr₂Ca₂Cu₃O_(10 + δ) (Bi2223) were
grown by the traveling-solvent floating-zone method with very slow
growth rates and steep temperature gradients, as described in detail
elsewhere.[13, 14, 15] Plate-shaped crystals were cleaved from crystal
ingots. The purity and crystallinity of the samples were checked out by
x-ray diffraction (Fig. 1). The fact that only sharp (00_l_) reflection
peaks can be observed in each pattern confirms the high crystalline
quality and phase purity of these samples. The three Bi-based cuprates
used for oxygen isotope studies have simi lar structures of the
tetragonal I4/mmm space group (a = b≈ 5.4 A). Their unit cells differ
only in the number (n − 1) of CuO₂-Ca-CuO₂ slabs packed along the c axis
with lattice parameters of 24.33(7), 30.80(6), and 37.07(7) A for the
monolayer, bilayer, and trilayer Bi-based cuprates, respectively.

The c-axis length in Bi-based cuprates has been found to be a sensitive
measure of oxygen doping level.[15; 16] The c-axis length monotonically
decreases with increasing δ in these materials. For the monolayer and
bilayer cuprates, T_(c) increases with decreasing c-axis length,
reaching its maximum, and then decreases with decreasing c-axis length,
reflecting the bell-shaped doping dependence of T_(c). In the case of
Bi2223, T_(c) first increases with decreasing c-axis length similar to
other members of this family. However, once the maximum value is
achieved T_(c) remains fixed irrespective of the further decrease of the
c-axis length. Measurements of optical[15] and transport[16] properties
clearly show that the carrier has been doped continuously even in the
constant T_(c) region. Our measured c-axis lattice parameters for Bi2201
and Bi2223 indicate that these materials are in reality optimally doped,
although the maximum T_(c)’s are scattered for both materials in the
literature.[15; 16; 17] The Bi2212 sample was found to be nearly
optimally doped but in the underdoped regime based on its c-axis length.
Using the correlation between δ and c-axis length difference,[16] we may
estimate the oxygen content δ∼ 0.12 for our present Bi2212 sample. The
oxygen content δ of the present Bi2201 samples was estimated to be 0.36
as described previously,[14] and the value of δ for Bi2223 is believed
to be ∼0.28.

For the oxygen isotope substitution, we chose each pair of Bi-based
cuprate single crystals. The selected samples were annealed in
isotopically enriched oxygen under identical conditions following a
similar procedure described in Ref. [18]. Each sample of crystals of
Bi-based cuprates was cut into halves. A pair of them was sealed in
separated quartz tubes. One tube was charged with high-purity ¹⁶O gas
while the other was charged with 99

The isotope exchange process was examined by very accurate ellipsometric
measurements performed at the U4IR beamline of the National Synchrotron
Light Source at Brookhaven National Laboratory detailed in Ref. [19].
Figure 2 shows the real parts of the c-axis optical conductivity σ₁(ω)
and the dielectric function ϵ₁(ω) for the Bi2212 single crystals for ¹⁶O
and ¹⁸O substitution measured at 150 K and in the energy range from
about 100 to 700 cm⁻¹. Six main peaks with energies of 97, 168, 210,
304, 358, and 583 cm⁻¹ are observed in the ¹⁶O standard sample. The peak
assignments[19] are as follows: The two low-frequency modes at 97 and
168 cm⁻¹ arise from motion of the heavy Bi atoms and the Cu ions,
respectively. The A_(2n) mode at 210 cm⁻¹ is due to the vibrations of Ca
and O(1) atoms in the Cu-O planes, and from the O(3) atoms in the Bi-O
planes to the c axis oscillations. The three high-energy vibrations are
predominantly oxygen related. The mode at 304 cm⁻¹ is basically due to
O(3) and O(1) vibrations, with a predominant contribution from the O(3)
atoms. The Cu-O bond-bending character mode at 358 cm⁻¹ involves
significant contribution from the O(1) atoms. The highest frequency mode
at 583 cm⁻¹ is mainly from the vibrations of O(2) apical atoms in the
Sr-O planes. These phonon modes are clearly identified especially due to
the resonance features in ϵ₁(ω) as shown in Fig. 2(b).

Upon ¹⁸O substitution, the two low-frequency modes at 97 and 168 cm⁻¹
show no shift at all, thus confirming their heavy metal ion feature.
With ¹⁸O exchange the four A_(2n) phonons at 210, 304, 358, and 583 cm⁻¹
soften in frequency by 4.1, 4.4, 5.3, and 5.5

Figure 2: The c-polarized response of (a) the real part of the optical
conductivity σ₁(ω) and (b) the dielectric function ϵ₁(ω) for ¹⁶O and ¹⁸O
exchanged pairs of nearly optimally doped Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O_(8 + δ) measured
at 150 K (Ref. [19]).

mass change. The relatively large frequency shifts of the 358 and 583
cm⁻¹ modes suggest that the O(1) site in the Cu-O planes and the apical
O(2) site are nearly fully occupied by ¹⁸O. The observed sizeable
redshift of the 210 cm⁻¹ mode upon ¹⁸O substitution further indicates
that this mode indeed contains appreciable contribution from the O(1)
and O(3) atoms. It is also interesting to note that there are two more
small peaks at 465 and 630 cm⁻¹. Raman studies [20] on Bi2212 have shown
that the 465 cm⁻¹ mode is associated to c-axis vibration of O(3) atoms
in the Bi-O layers and the 630 cm⁻¹ mode to the O(2) apical oxygen atoms
in the Sr-O layers. It can be seen that in the ¹⁸O exchanged sample
these two peaks all move to low frequency by 4.7

Superconducting transition temperatures were determined by magnetic
susceptibility χ in a Quantum Design superconducting quantum
interference device magnetometer. All samples were measured in an
applied field of 10 Oe with H∥c. To compare the temperature dependence
of the isotope pairs, the data points are normalized by taking χ at each
value of temperature and dividing by χ at 5 K. In Fig. 3, we show the
normalized zero-field-cooled susceptibility versus temperature curves
for the ¹⁶O and ¹⁸O exchanged samples. T_(c) was taken as the
temperature where the linearly extrapolated transition slope intersects
the zero line, which has been generally used in isotope-effect studies.
[21] We find a lower T_(c) for all the ¹⁸O exchanged samples. Oxygen
isotope shift of ΔT_(c) was obtained to be −0.79(10), −1.19(15), and
−0.27(15) K for the Bi2201, Bi2212, and Bi2223, respectively.

Using the definition of the isotope exponent α=−(ΔT_(c)/T_(c))/(ΔM/M)
with M being the oxygen isotopic mass, we have α=0.25(4) for Bi2201,
0.14(3) for Bi2212, and 0.02(1) for Bi2223. The present α of Bi2201 is
the first determined for the isotope effect in this material, and its
value lies in the α range for other optimally doped low-T_(c) monolayer
compounds. [7] This observation indicates that the optimally doped
monolayer cuprates indeed possess a non-negligible isotope effect. The
trilayer Bi2223 has a very small but positive oxygen isotope effect.
This finding concludes the early controversy regarding whether the
oxygen isotope effect in this material is negative. [22; 23]
Importantly, the samples used in our experiments are single crystals and
lead-free. Lead-containing powder samples were used in previous
experiments. [22; 23] In the case of Bi2212, Gweon _et al._[3] noticed
that an ¹⁶O→¹⁸O substitution leads to T_(c) shifting from 92 to 91 K.
Taking the exchange rate of their ¹⁸O sample of 75

The sizable α of the monolayer Bi2201 indicates that phonons are
directly or indirectly involved in determining superconducting state.
Just like the T_(c) behavior, α also has a systematic CuO₂ layer
dependence in the Bi-based cuprates. Therefore the same physical
parameter(s) should control the Cu-O layer effect on both the T_(c) and
α. Keeping in mind that the trilayer material has the highest T_(c) in
this homologous series but it has very small isotope effect. Clearly,
the argument that a mechanism other than an electron-phonon interaction
dominates the superconductivity based only on a small α in a cuprate
with a relatively high T_(c) is inappropriate. The observed CuO₂-layer
dependence of the isotope effect indicates that the interlayer coupling
between the adjacent CuO₂ planes is necessary for superconductivity in
layered cuprates. For the monolayer materials having lower

Figure 4: (Color online) Dependence of the oxygen isotope exponent α on
the number of CuO₂ layers in the optimally doped Bi-based cuprates.
Triangles are the experimental data points in the present work. The
square denotes the data of the Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O_(8 + δ) sample having
T_(c)=92 K from Refs. [3] and [24]. The circle represents the data of
the optimally doped Bi_(1.6)Pb_(0.8)Sr₂Ca₂Cu₂O₅O_(10 + δ) with T_(c)∼
107 K from Ref. [23]. The thick lines are to guide the eyes.

Figure 3: (Color online) Temperature dependence of the magnetic
susceptibility χ (normalized to the value at 5 K) for ¹⁶O and ¹⁸O
exchanged pairs in nearly optimally doped Bi₂Sr_(1.6)La_(0.4)CuO_(6 + δ)
Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O_(8 + δ) and Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O₃O_(10 + δ)

T_(c)’s, the interlayer coupling plays a less important role and T_(c)
can be mainly controlled by the phonon coupling, yielding a larger size
of isotope exponent. With increasing the number of CuO₂ layers in a unit
cell, the interlayer coupling begins to play an important role in
enhancing T_(c) and the isotope effect is expected to be small.[26]

In summary, our experimental finding of the non-negligible oxygen
isotope effect in optimally doped Bi₂Sr₂Ca_(n − 1)Cu_(n)O_(2n + 4 + δ)
(n=1,2,3) highlights the role of phonons played in the high-T_(c)
superconductivity. Most important is the systematic reduction of the
isotope exponent with the number of CuO₂ layers in a way opposite to
T_(c) in this homologous family. Our results also suggest that the
interlayer coupling effect should be included in any quantitative
analysis of layered cuprates.

We thank T. Cuk, A. F. Goncharov, C. Kendziora, A. Lanzara, and N. L.
Wang for valuable discussions. The work was supported by DOE Grant No.
DEFG02-02ER4595 and CDAC Grant No. DEFC03-03NA00144. The work of H.Q.L.
was supported by an Earmarked Grant for Research from RGC of HKSAR
(Project No. HKU-3/05C). The infrared measurements at NSLS of BNL were
supported by DOE, under Contract No. DE-AC02-98CH10886.

## References

* [1] A. Lanzara, P. V. Bogdanov, X. J. Zhou, S. A. Keller, D. L. Feng,
E. D. Lu, T. Yoshida, H. Eisaki, A. Fujimori, K. Kishio, J. I.
Shimoyama, T. Noda, S. Uchida, Z. Hussain, and Z.-X. Shen, Nature
(London) **412**, 510 (2001). * [2] T. Cuk, F. Baumberger, D. H. Lu, N.
Ingle, X. J. Zhou, H. Eisaki, N. Kaneko, Z. Hussain, T. P. Devereaux, N.
Nagaosa, and Z.-X. Shen, Phys. Rev. Lett. **93**, 117003 (2004). * [3]
G. H. Gweon, T. Sasagawa, S. Y. Zhou, J. Graf, H. Takagi, D. H. Lee, and
A. Lanzara, Nature (London) **430**, 187 (2004). * [4] J. F. Douglas, H.
Iwasawa, Z. Sun, A. V. Fedorov, M. Ishikado, T. Saitoh, H. Eisaki, H.
Bando, T. Iwase, A. Ito, M. Arita, K. Shimada, H. Namatame, M.
Taniguchi, T. Masui, S. Tajima, K. Fujita, S. Uchida, Y. Aiura, and D.
S. Dessau, Nature (London) **446**, E5 (2007). * [5] J. Lee, K. Fujita,
K. McElroy, J. A. Slezak, M. Wang, Y. Aiura, H. Bando, M. Ishikado, T.
Masui, J.-X. Zhu, A. V. Balatsky, H. Eisaki, S. Uchida, and J. C. Davis,
Nature (London) **442**, 546 (2006). * [6] S. Pailhes, P. Bourges, Y.
Sidis, C. Bernhard, B. Keimer, C. T. Lin, and J. L. Tallon, Phys. Rev. B
**71**, 220507(R) (2005). * [7] J. P. Franck, in _Physical Properties of
High Temperature Superconductors IV_, edited by D. M. Ginzberg (World
Scientific, Singapore, 1994), p. 189. * [8] F. F. Balakirev, J. B.
Betts, A. Migliori, S. Ono, Y. Ando, and G. S. Boebinger, Nature
(London) **424**, 912 (2003). * [9] N. Gedik, M. Langner, J. Orenstein,
S. Ono, Y. Abe, and Y. Ando, Phys. Rev. Lett. **95**, 117005 (2005). *
[10] E. S. Bozin, G. H. Kwei, H. Takagi, and S. J. L. Billinge, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **84**, 5856 (2000). * [11] J. L. Wagner, P. G. Radaelli, D.
G. Hinks, J. D. Jorgensen, J. F. Mitchell, B. Dabrowski, G. S. Knapp,
and M. A. Beno, Physica C **210**, 447 (1993). * [12] Y. Shimakawa, Y.
Kubo, T. Manako, H. Igarashi, F. Izumi, and H. Asano, Phys. Rev. B
**42**, 10165 (1990). * [13] B. Liang and C. T. Lin, J. Cryst. Growth
**267**, 510 (2004); **237-239**, 756 (2002). * [14] C. T. Lin, M.
Freiberg, and E. Schonherr, Physica C **337**, 270 (2000). * [15] B.
Liang, C. Bernhard, Th. Wolf, and C. T. Lin, Supercond. Sci. Technol.
**17**, 731 (2004). * [16] T. Fujii, I. Terasaki, T. Watanabe, and A.
Matsuda, Phys. Rev. B **66**, 024507 (2002). * [17] M. Karppinen, S.
Lee, J. M. Lee, J. Poulsen, T. Nomura, S. Tajima, J. M. Chen, R. S. Liu,
and H. Yamauchi, Phys. Rev. B **68**, 054502 (2003). * [18] D. J.
Pringle, G. V. M. Williams, and J. L. Tallon, Phys. Rev. B **62**, 12527
(2000). * [19] N. N. Kovaleva, A. V. Boris, T. Holden, C. Ulrich, B.
Liang, C. T. Lin, B. Keimer, C. Bernhard, J. L. Tallon, D. Munzar, and
A. M. Stoneham, Phys. Rev. B **69**, 054511 (2004). * [20] A. E.
Pantoja, D. M. Pooke, H. J. Trodahl, and J. C. Irwin, Phys. Rev. B
**58**, 5219 (1998). * [21] R. Khasanov, A. Shengelaya, K. Conder, E.
Morenzoni, I. M. Savie, J. Karpinski, and H. Keller, Phys. Rev. B
**74**, 064504 (2006). * [22] H. J. Bornemann, D. E. Morris, and H. B.
Liu, Physica C **182**, 132 (1991). * [23] G. M. Zhao, V. Kirtikar, and
D. E. Morris, Phys. Rev. B **63**, 220506(R) (2001). * [24] T. Sasagawa,
A. Lanzara, G.-H. Gweon, S. Zhou, J. Graf, Sury-adjaya, and H. Takagi,
Physica C **426-431**, 436 (2005). * [25] H. J. Bornemann, D. E. Morris,
H. B. Liu, and P. K. Narwankar, Physica C **191**, 211 (1992). * [26] X.
J. Chen, V. V. Struzhkin, Z. G. Wu, R. J. Hemley, H. K. Mao, and H. Q.
Lin, Phys. Rev. B **75**, 134504 (2007).
