# Pressure-induced phase transition, metallization, and
superconductivity in boron triiodide

Nozomu Hamaya

Miyuki Ishizuka

Suzue Onoda

Jiang Guishan

Ayako Ohmura

Katsuya Shimizu

KYOKUGEN, Center for Quantum Science and Technology under Extreme
Conditions, Osaka University, 1-3 Machikaneyama-cho, Toyonaka, Osaka
560-8531, Japan Center for Transdisciplinary Research, Niigata
University, 8050 Ni-no-cho, Nishi-ku, Niigata 950-2181, Japan

Received 29 May 2010; revised manuscript received 15 August 2010;
published 7 September 2010

###### Abstract

Pressure evolution of structural and electrical properties of boron
triiodide, a highly anisotropic molecular crystal consisting of stacked
layers of planar BI3 molecules, has been studied by x-ray diffraction
and resistivity measurements. A new phase transition was observed to
occur at 6.2 GPa from the molecular phase with hexagonal structure to a
monatomic phase with the face-centered-cubic lattice of iodine atoms.
This first-order phase transition is characterized by the discontinuous
crush of stacking of molecular layers. The monatomic phase becomes
metallic at ∼23 GPa and exhibits superconductivity above ∼27 GPa. The
process of molecular dissociation and electrical properties of BI3 are
discussed in comparison with those of iodine and other simple molecular
iodides.

pacs: 62.50.-p, 61.05.cp, 31.70.Ks, 61.50.Ks + Footnote †: preprint:
PHYSICAL REVIEW B **82**, 094506 (2010)

## I Introduction

The effect of high pressure on molecular systems has been a central
issue of fundamental physics and chemistry [1] as well as planetary
sciences. [2] Cohesion of simple molecular solids occurs through forces
of very different strengths: covalent, ionic, van der Waals, and
hydrogen bonds. Pressure drives materials to states of higher density
and gives rise to competition among those chemical bonds, structural
instabilities, and changes in electronic properties. A simple picture
suggests that all molecular systems must collapse on compression to form
closed-packed structures and go over into metallic states at sufficient
high pressures. [3] However, the diversity of a process toward their
destruction in real substances has manifested itself in numerous
experimental observations. For instance, H2 is widely known to exhibit
unexpected phases and complex phase diagram. [4] Metal tetraiodides MI₄
($M\!=\!{\rm Ge}\!\cdot\!{\rm Sn}$) are examples of another class. They
undergo pressure-induced amorphization [5, 6, 7] and become metallic
glasses, [8] which are quite common in materials having tetrahedral
coordination. Among various factors affecting on the response of
molecular crystals to compression, the shape of a molecule may be of
particular importance because the anisotropy of chemical bonds, crystal
structure, and electronic properties strongly depends on the shape of
molecules composing a crystal. In this study we experimentally
investigate the pressure evolution of crystal structure and electrical
resistivity of boron triiodide, a quasi-two-dimensional layered crystal
consisting of planar molecules of BI3. To our knowledge, a high-pressure
study of molecular system having a simple planar molecule as a
structural unit is quite rare.

The BI3 molecule has a planer structure with the boron atom at the
center of an equilateral triangle of the iodine atoms. The boron iodide
crystallizes at ambient condition in an insulator having a hexagonal
structure with space group P6₃/m. [9] Two molecules are included in the
unit cell. Figure 1 shows the layered structure of BI3, in which the
planar molecules are arranged within the basal planes at z = 1/4 and
3/4. A Raman spectroscopic measurement by Anderson and Lettress [10]
showed no evidence of any phase transition or major distortion of
molecules up to 5 GPa. Similar layered structures are found in
quasimolecular iodides of the type MI₃
($M\!=\!{\rm As}\!\cdot\!{\rm Sb}$, ${\rm Bi}$), although their crystal
structures belong to the rhombohedral symmetry with space group R[3].
[11] The molecular and ionic characters coexist in these iodides. Among
them, the molecular character is well preserved in AsI3 consisting of
molecules with depressed triangular pyramid structure. It has been shown
by x-ray diffraction and Raman spectroscopy that in AsI3 the distinction
between the

Figure 1: (Color online) Hexagonal crystal structure of BI3 with space
group P6₃/m projected on the xy plane. The boron atom (small circle)
sits at the center of an equilateral triangle of the iodine atoms (large
circle) in a molecule. Planar molecules lie perpendicular to the c axis
at z = 1/4 (solid line) and z = 3/4 (broken line) and form a molecular
layer at each height. Some iodine atoms are numbered for identification.

intramolecular and the intermolecular bonding is lost at ∼4 GPa where
the isostructural crossover from the molecular to the ionic crystal
occurs.[12]

The purpose of this study is to investigate the response of highly
anisotropic crystal structure consisting of planar molecules to
compression. Choosing BI₃ as a planar molecular system, we have studied
pressure-induced phase transition, molecular dissociation,
metallization, and superconductivity by synchrotron and laboratory x-ray
diffraction experiments and electric resistivity measurements. Results
of Rietveld analysis provide detailed structural information concerning
the approach to a phase transition and molecular dissociation.
Metallization and superconductivity are explored over wide pressure and
temperature ranges. The results for BI₃ are described in comparison with
iodine and other simple molecular iodides with different shapes of
molecules.

## II Experimental technique

### X-ray diffraction study

Polycrystalline BI₃ of 98

Synchrotron x-ray diffraction measurement was carried out up to 20 GPa
at beamline BL04B2 in SPring-8. Incident x-rays at a wavelength of
0.3294 A were collimated to 0.04×0.04 mm². An imaging plate was used as
a detector. Acquisition time for each diffraction pattern was less than
1000 s. In the laboratory study x-rays from a rotating anode-type source
with a molybdenum target were monochromatized by the pyroliticgraphite
002 reflection. Incident Mo$K\overline{\alpha}$ was collimated to 0.12
mm at the sample using a pin hole. Diffraction intensities were detected
by an imaging plate with exposure times of 6-22 h. One sample was used
to obtain diffraction patterns at low pressures below 10 GPa and they
were analyzed by the Rietveld program of RietAN-2000.[14] The other
sample was compressed to 46 GPa. All measurements were done at room
temperature.

### Electrical resistivity measurement

A clump-type DAC made of nonmagnetic CuBe alloy was used to generate
high pressure. Alumina powder was placed on the surface of a nonmagnetic
310S stainless steel gasket for electrical insulation. A sample was
preprocessed into dimensions of 40 μm thickness, 50 μm width and 100 μm
length and embedded in the hole of insulated gasket. The electrical
resistance was measured by an ac 4-terminal method with Pt electrodes
with typical measuring current of 500 nA. The sample was treated in a
water and oxygen-free argon gas glove box. The sample was compressed at
room temperature and then cooled down to 60 mK by exploiting a ³He/⁴He
dilution refrigerator. Pressure was determined by a ruby fluorescence
method at low temperatures as well as at room temperature. Pressure
gradient in the sample between electrodes was estimated to be less than
10

## III Results

### New phase transition

The SR measurement revealed a reversible drastic change in diffraction
pattern around 7 GPa in the first pressure cycle. Figure 2 shows
diffraction patterns recorded in the second compression. All of
reflections observed below 6.4 GPa were indexed by the hexagonal
symmetry with P6₃/m space group, the structure reported at 1 atm. New
peaks appeared at 7.0 GPa. With an increment of pressure they grew at
the expense of the intensities of the hexagonal peaks, which finally
disappeared at 9.1 GPa. More careful laboratory measurements
demonstrated that this first-order phase transition occurred at 6.2 GPa
and the reverse transition took place at 5.0 GPa.

A diffraction pattern of a high-pressure phase (HPP) can be well indexed
with the face-centered-cubic (fcc) structure. The strongest peak
corresponds to the 111 reflection. Since the atomic x-ray scattering
power of boron is only 5/53 of that of iodine or less, we detect
dominantly scattering from the iodine atoms. The present result
indicates that the iodine atoms form the fcc lattice in the HPP. We did
not see any signs of the presence of a super lattice structure: neither
splitting of peaks nor appearance of additional peaks was observed in
diffraction patterns of the HPP.

Rietveld refinement of the hexagonal structure was carried out to
examine structural changes on approaching the phase transition. The
space group of P6₃/m was assumed in the analysis. In this structure the
iodine atom has two independent positional parameters (x, y, 1/4) and
the coordinate of the boron atom is fixed at (0, 1/3, 2/3). A typical
result of Rietveld fitting is shown in Fig. 3. The $R_{\rm wp}$ factor
to measure the degree of fit lied within a range of 5.1−6.8

Figure 4 presents the results of pressure dependence of the lattice
constants normalized to the values of those at 1

atm, a₀=6.9909 A and c₀=7.3642 A. To clearly see anisotropic structural
changes associated with the phase transition, the length scales of
a^(′)/a₀=$\sqrt{3/2}a_{\rm fcc}/a_{0}$ and c^(′)/c₀
=$(2/\sqrt{3})a_{\rm fcc}/c_{0}$ are plotted in the HPP region, where
$a_{\rm fcc}$ is the lattice constant of the fcc lattice. A systematic
discrepancy between the SR and the laboratory results is found in
pressure dependence of the lattice constant c of the hexagonal phase. A
possible cause may be the pressure gradient in the sample irradiated by
x-rays. Pressure distribution across the samples measured in this study
has been described in chapter 2. Taking account of the beam size of
x-rays, 0.04 mm-square and 0.12 mm diameter used in the SR and the
laboratory study, respectively, the degree of discrepancy in c appears
to be compatible with measured pressure distribution. Such an effect
will be conspicuous in a more compressible direction as observed in the
present case.

An important observation in Fig. 4 is that the stacking periodicity of
molecular layers exhibits a discontinuous decrease by ∼4

### Compression curve

Measured volume per molecule is plotted as a function of pressure in
Fig. 5. In the HPP region the volume per three iodine atoms
$V_{\rm HPP}$=$(3/4)a_{\rm fcc}^{3}$ is plotted. The data were fitted to
the Vinet equation of state [16] to obtain the bulk modulus at 1 atm K₀
and its pressure derivative K₀^(′). Least-squares analysis of the
low-pressure phase yields K₀=7.3 ± 0.5 GPa and K₀^(′)=7.0 ± 0.5 for the
SR data and K₀=7.8 ± 0.3 GPa and K₀^(′)=7.4 ± 0.3 for the laboratory
data at a fixed volume of 155.85 A³/molecule at 1atm. They can be
regarded to be in good agreement within experimental error. The value of
the bulk modulus for BI₃ is compatible with K₀=6.1 GPa for SnI₄ (Ref.
[17]) and about a half of K₀=13.6 GPa for iodine. [18] A quasimolecular
iodide of AsI₃ has a much larger value of

Figure 4: (Color online) Pressure variations in the lattice constants a
and c normalized to the values of those at 1 atm, a₀ and c₀. To clearly
show anisotropic structural changes associated with the phase
transition, the length scales a^(′)/a₀=$\sqrt{3}/2a_{\rm fcc}/a_{0}$ and
c^(′)/c₀ =$(2/\sqrt{3})a_{\rm fcc}/c_{0}$ are plotted in the HPP region,
where $a_{\rm fcc}$ is the lattice constant of the fcc lattice. The SR
data are denoted by a square for a and a circle for c and the laboratory
data by a triangle for a and a reverse triangle for c. Open and solid
symbols indicate the data for the hexagonal phase and the HPP,
respectively.

Figure 3: (Color online) Result of Rietveld fitting of a typical
diffraction pattern of the hexagonal phase at λ=0.71073 Å at 1.6 GPa.
The space group of P6₃/m was assumed. The boron atom was fixed at (0,
1/3, 2/3) and two independent positional parameters (x, y, 1/4) of the
iodine atom were determined. $R_{\rm wp}$ was 5.1

Figure 2: (Color online) Pressure evolution of synchrotron x-ray
diffraction patterns for BI₃ at λ=0.32940 Å on compression. Scattering
from boron atoms must be invisible in diffraction intensities due to its
low atomic scattering power in comparison with the iodine atom. A phase
transition takes place at a pressure between 6.4 and 7.0 GPa in this
run. Reflections from a HPP can be indexed with the fcc lattice.

K₀=62.5 GPa (Ref. [12]) due to coexisting ionic character of chemical
bonds.

The HPP is much less compressible than the hexagonal phase. The fitting
of all data for the HPP yields K_(0, HPP)=41.0 ± 0.6 GPa,
K_(0, HPP)^(′)=3.0 ± 0.6, and V_(0, HPP) = 123.0 ± 0.1 A³/three-iodine
atoms. For comparison also illustrated in Fig. 5 is an extrapolation of
the equation of state reported by Reichlin _et al._[19] for iodine
having a high-pressure form of the fcc structure, where the volume of
(3/4)V_(fcc-iodine) is plotted. The molar volume of the HPP of BI₃ is
distinctly larger than that of the fcc I₂ by ∼24

### Structural evolution on approaching to the phase transition

Values of two positional parameters of the iodine atom in the hexagonal
structure, x and y, decrease almost linearly with increasing pressure
from 0.039 and 0.357 at 1 atm (Ref. [9]) to 0.0133 and 0.3326 at 5.9
GPa, respectively. Distances between the ith and the jth iodine atoms,
r_(ij) (indices being given in Fig. 1), were calculated from the results
of fitting and plotted in Fig. 6. The nearest neighbor distance r_(n)
=$a_{\text{fcc}}/\sqrt{2}$ is plotted in the HPP. The intramolecular
distance r₂₁ slightly increases with increasing pressure, indicating the
weakening of covalent bonds between the boron and the iodine atom and
the strengthening of intermolecular interactions. In fact, the atomic
distances between different molecules decrease steeply under
compression. This observation is consistent with marked hardening of
Raman frequencies of the lattice modes.[10]

The phase transition to the HPP took place when one of the
intermolecular distances, r₂₃, became comparable to the intramolecular
distance of r₂₁ at ∼6 GPa. The resulting fcc lattice of iodine atoms has
the nearest neighbor distance approximately equal to the shortest
distance in the hexagonal structure at the transition pressure. This
coincidence demonstrates that the molecular layer of the hexagonal
structure turns into the (111) close-packed layer of the fcc lattice.
The HPP has a three-dimensional close-packed structure. Furthermore, its
nearest-neighbor distance can become much shorter than the
intramolecular I-I distance of ∼3.66 A at high pressures. Those facts
are clear indications of monatomic character of the HPP.

### Metallization and superconductivity

Pressure dependence of the electrical resistivity of BI₃ measured at
room temperature is illustrated in Fig. 7. Rapid and continuous decrease
in resistivity with increasing pressure ceases around 17 GPa, suggesting
a change into a metallic state. The sample changed its color from
transparent to opaque and a luster appeared on its surface above 20 GPa.
No anomaly was detected at ∼6 GPa where the sample underwent the
structural transformation. Figure 8 represents the temperature
dependence of the fractional resistance R/R₁₅₀ K at some pressures at
low temperature. When the temperature was lowered, the resistance was
nearly independent of temperature up to 20 GPa. Small upturn of the
curve below 20 K can be regarded as characteristic behavior of a
semiconductor. This behavior disappeared at 23 and 27 GPa and the
resistance shows apparently metallic temperature dependence.

Pressure induced a drastic drop in resistance below 1 K at 27 GPa as
demonstrated in Fig. 9. This drop is considered to arise from an onset
of the superconducting transition because the drop shifted to lower
temperature by the application of magnetic fields (see the inset of Fig.
9). Reading the onset point of the drop, the transition temperature
T_(c) was determined to be 0.5 K and T_(c) increased up to 2 K by
further application of pressure to 65 GPa. The pressure variation in
T_(c) for BI₃ is illustrated in Fig. 10 together with T_(c) for I₂ (Ref.

Figure 5: (Color online) Measured volume per molecule plotted as a
function of pressure. A triangle denotes the volume for the hexagonal
structure. In the HPP region the volume per three iodine atoms
(3/4)a_(fcc)³ (circle) is plotted. Open and solid symbols indicate the
SR and the laboratory data, respectively. The Vinet fits to the
experimental data are shown by solid curves: parameters used in the fits
are K₀=7.3 GPa, K₀^(′)=7.0, and V_(0, hex)=155.85 Å³/molecule for the
hexagonal phase and K_(0, HPP)=41.0 GPa, K_(0, HPP)^(′)=3.0, and
V_(0, HPP)=123.0 Å³/three-iodine-atoms for the HPP. The dotted curve is
an extrapolation of the equation of state for iodine with the fcc
structure reported in Ref. [19] and shows V=(3/4)V_(fcc-iodine).

Figure 6: (Color online) Pressure variation in interatomic distance
r_(ij) between the ith and the jth iodine atoms. The numbers are shown
in Fig. 1. The intramolecular distance is r₂₁ (solid triangle). The
intermolecular distances within the same molecular layer are r₂₁, (solid
circle) and r₂₃: (open circle) and those between different layers are
r₂₄ (open square) and r₂₅ (open diamond). The nearest-neighbor distance
r_(n)=$a_{\text{fcc}}/\sqrt{2}$ (cross) is plotted in the HPP region.

20) and SnI₄.[21] In BI₃, $T_{\rm c}$ increases significantly with
increasing pressure and becomes nearly constant above 40 GPa.

## IV Discussion

Let us consider the process of molecular dissociation at first. In the
crystal structure at 1 atm, the molecular axis of the equilateral
triangular BI₃ molecule, defined as the direction of the bond between
the boron atom and the iodine atom with index 2 in Fig. 1, is not
parallel to the a axis. The molecules at z=1/4 and z=3/4 are rotated,
respectively, counterclockwise and clockwise by ∼2^(∘) around the boron
atom in the basal planes.

This configuration is being kept unchanged during compression as
expected from the observation in Fig. 6 that r_(21^(′)) and r_(23^(′))
do not tend to merge together. Symmetrization of a triangle formed by
the iodine atoms of i=1^(′),2,3^(′) does not proceed during compression,
although shortening of those distances results in an increase in bond
angle I(1^(′))-I(2)-I(3^(′)), which approaches to 60^(∘) with increasing
pressure as illustrated in Fig. 11. The phase transition, however, takes
place before the angle reaches 60^(∘), when r_(23^(′)) becomes equal to
r₂₁, that is, the iodine atoms aligned at regular intervals form
polymeric linear chains. Therefore, we conclude that a key trigger which
induces the molecular dissociation and the phase transition in BI₃ is
the equalization of the strength of the shortest intermolecular I-I bond
with that of the intramolecular I-I bond within the molecular layer.

The process of the molecular dissociation in BI₃ is somewhat similar to
that in iodine. Diatomic molecules of I₂ with covalent bond length of
2.75 A form base-centered orthorhombic crystal structure consisting of
stacked molecular layers. The molecular dissociation develops in the
layer in

Figure 8: (Color online) Fractional resistance $R/R_{150~{}\rm K}$ vs
temperature in BI₃ at some pressures indicated in the figure.

Figure 10: (Color online) Pressure dependence of the superconducting
transition temperature $T_{\rm c}$ in BI₃(solid circle), I₂ (triangle,
Ref. 20) and SnI₄ (open circle, Ref. 21). The arrow indicates the
pressure where the absence of superconductivity of BI₃ has been
confirmed down to 35 mK. Dotted line is eye guide for $T_{\rm c}$ in
BI₃.

Figure 7: Pressure variation in the electrical resistivity ρ in BI₃ at
room temperature. Solid and open circles indicate ρ measured on
compression and on decompression, respectively.

such a way that the intermolecular distances decrease and approach to
the intramolecular bond length by compression, as in the case of BI3. In
the monatomic phase stabilized above 21 GPa, the bond length is
elongated to 2.90 A.2 This 5.5

Molecules lose their identity in very different ways in other simple
molecular iodides. In AsI3, the isostructural transformation from the
molecular to the ionic crystal takes place at the pressure where the
intramolecular/intermolecular As-I distance ratio becomes about unity.12
In the molecular phase of SnI4, the shortest I-I distance between
adjacent tetrahedral molecules reaches  3.69 A at 6.6 GPa, which is much
smaller than the intramolecular I-I distance of  4.31 A, before the
transition to the second crystalline phase at  7.2 GPa.17 This
structural change is immediately followed by amorphization. From results
of a x-ray absorption fine-structure study,24 the molecular
dissociation, which can be defined as distortion of the tetrahedral
molecule due to elongation of the covalent Sn-I bond length, is inferred
to occur at  9 GPa in the state where the amorphous structure of
polymeric network of distorted tetrahedra coexists with the remnant
first and second crystalline phases.

Secondary, let us discuss crystal structure of the HPP. The present
x-ray study was not capable of showing direct evidence of existence of
the BI3 molecules after the reverse phase transition. What we observed
was that symmetry of the recovered crystal structure and measured values
of the lattice constants well agree with those of the original hexagonal
structure. This strongly supports the view that the molecules are
restored at the reverse transition. It was also observed that the
magnitude of pressure hysteresis of the transition is as small as  1
GPa. We infer from those observations that displacements of the boron
atoms associated with the structural change are rather small.

Most likely interstitial positions in the fcc structure are octahedral
and tetrahedral sites. Estimation of their radii, _r_o and _r_i in fcc
I2 from the interpolated equation of state shown in Fig. 5 yielded _r_o
= 0.697 A and _r_t = 0.378 A at 7.0 GPa and _r_o = 0.634 A and _r_t =
0.349 A at 46.1 GPa. According to Shannon,25 the ionic radii of B3+ with
six coordinate and with four coordinate are 0.41 A and 0.25 A,
respectively. Thus both sites are large enough to accommodate the B3+
ions. The tetrahedral site is smaller than the octahedral site but much
closer to the position where the boron atom is located in the molecular
phase. Although it is difficult for us to suggest a definite crystal
structure of the HPP of BI3 from above consideration, the model that the
boron atoms randomly occupy tetrahedral sites in the fcc lattice of the
iodine atom seems acceptable.

Finally, we discuss electrical properties of BI3 at high pressure. The
metallization of BI3 occurs at 23 GPa at which the lattice constant of
the fcc lattice is estimated to be 4.879 A. A first-principles
calculation of electronic band structure for iodine with the fcc
structure having much larger lattice constant of 5.429 A demonstrated
that it still remains in a metallic state.26 This result suggests that
the conduction in the monatomic phase of BI3 is strongly suppressed by
the presence of boron atoms. Further theoretical consideration will
elucidate the mechanism of metallization in BI3.

Comparison of superconductive properties of I2, BI3, and SnI4 in Fig. 10
shows that the transition appears at nearly the same pressure around 25
GPa in these materials and their maximum values of _T_c lie within a
very limited temperature range 1.3-2.0 K. From the viewpoint of crystal
structure, each substance has a different structure from others at a
pressure where the superconductivity is initially induced. In BI3, the
high-pressure monatomic phase becomes superconductive at 27 GPa. Iodine
has an incommensurate structure at 22 GPa and SnI4 has the amorphous
form characterized by dense random packing of tin and iodine atoms at
 25 GPa.27 Although all three structures may be regarded as minor
modifications of the close packed arrangement of atoms, it is rather
difficult to address a specific structural feature which can account for
similarities in superconductive properties. We also see negative
correlation between metallization and crystal structure in those
systems. Boron tritihode becomes metallic at 23 GPa in the monatomic
phase, I2 at 16 GPa in the molecular phase and SnI4 at 12 GPa in the
amorphous phase coexistent with crystalline phases. Such a comparison
demonstrates that the differences in dimensionality of the molecular
shape introduces different type of anisotropy of crystal structure and
thus results in a variety of response of crystal structure and
electrical properties to pressure. It is to be pointed out that most of
those experimental results were obtained from measurements under
nonhydrostatic pressure and thus in different shear stress and strain
conditions. Hydrostatic condition is crucial for future works

Figure 11: (Color online) Variation in the bond angle I(1′)-I(2)-I(3′)
with increasing pressure toward the transition pressure of 6.2 GPa. The
structural change occurs before the angle reaches 60°. The curve is the
guide to the eyes.

to make more substantial comparisons of structural and electrical
properties at high pressure.

## V Conclusions

We carried out x-ray diffraction and electrical resistivity measurements
of a highly anisotropic molecular crystal of BI₃ at high pressure. A new
reversible phase transition from the molecular phase to the monatomic
phase with the fcc lattice of iodine atoms was observed to occur at
6.2 ± 0.2 GPa. This first-order phase transition is characterized by the
continuous densification in the molecular layer and the discontinuous
crush of stacking of the layers. The reverse transition took place at
5.0 ± 0.2 GPa. Metallization takes place at 23 ± 1 GPa in the monatomic
phase and superconductive transition appears at 27 ± 1 GPa. Comparison
of the process of molecular dissociation and the electronic properties
of BI₃ with iodine and other simple molecular iodides shows that each
material exhibits quite different response of crystal structure and
electronic properties to compression.

## Acknowledgments

Part of this work was performed at SPring-8 under the approval of the
Japan Synchrotron Radiation Research Institute, Proposals No.
2003B0413ND and No. 2004A0124ND and by the Scientific Research (S),
19104009 and Global COE Program (Core Research and Engineering of
Advanced Materials-Interdisciplinary Education Center for Materials
Science), MEXT, Japan.

## References

* [1] R. J. Hemley, Annu. Rev. Phys. Chem. **51**, 763 (2000), and
references therein. * [2] M. Ross, Nature (London) **292**, 435
(1981). * [3] E. Wigner and H. B. Huntington, J. Chem. Phys. **3**, 764
(1935). * [4] D. A. Young, _Phase Diagrams of the Elements_ (California
University Press, Berkley, 1991), p. 56. * [5] Y. Fujii, M. Kowaka, and
A. Onodera, J. Phys. C **18**, 789 (1985). * [6] N. Hamaya, K. Sato, K.
Usui-Watanabe, K. Fuchizaki, Y. Fujii, and Y. Ohishi, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**79**, 4597 (1997). * [7] M. P. Pasternak, R. D. Taylor, M. B. Kruger,
R. Jeanloz, J. P. Itie, and A. Polian, Phys. Rev. Lett. **72**, 2733
(1994). * [8] A. L. Chen, P. Y. Yu, and M. P. Pasternak, Phys. Rev. B
**44**, 2883 (1991). * [9] B. Albert and K. Schmitt, Z. Anorg. Allg.
Chem. **627**, 809 (2001). * [10] A. Anderson and J. Lauren Lettress, J.
Raman Spectrosc. **33**, 173 (2002). * [11] J. Trotter and T. Zobel, Z.
Kristallogr. **123**, 67 (1966). * [12] H. C. Hsueh, R. K. Chen, H.
Vass, S. J. Clark, G. J. Ackland, W. C.-K. Poon, and J. Crain, Phys.
Rev. B **58**, 14812 (1998). * [13] H. K. Mao, P. M. Bell, J. W. Shaner,
and D. J. Steinberg, J. Appl. Phys. **49**, 3276 (1978). * [14] F. Izumi
and T. Ikeda, Mater. Sci. Forum **321-324**, 198 (2000). * [15] K.
Shimizu, K. Amaya, and N. Suzuki, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **74**, 1345
(2005). * [16] P. Vinet, J. Ferrante, J. R. Smith, and J. H. Rose, J.
Phys. C **19**, L467 (1986). * [17] K. Sato and N. Hamaya, Rev. High
Pressure Sci. Technol. **7**, 278 (1998). * [18] E.-F. Dusing, W. A.
Grosshans, and W. B. Holzapfel, J. Phys. Colloq. **45**, C8-203
(1984). * [19] R. Reichlin, A. K. McMahan, M. Ross, S. Martin, J. Hu, R.
J. Hemley, H. K. Mao, and Y. Wu, Phys. Rev. B **49**, 3725 (1994). *
[20] K. Shimizu, N. Taminati, N. Takeshita, M, Ishizuka, K. Amaya and S.
Endo, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **61**, 3853 (1992). * [21] N. Takeshita, S.
Kometani, K. Shimizu, K. Amaya, N. Hamaya, and S. Endo, J. Phys. Soc.
Jpn. **65**, 3400 (1996). * [22] K. Takemura, S. Minomura, O. Shimomura,
Y. Fujii, and J. D. Axe, Phys. Rev. B **26**, 998 (1982). * [23] K.
Takemura, K. Sato, H. Fujihisa, M. Onoda, Nature (London) **423**, 971
(2003). * [24] F. Wang and R. Ingalls, in _High Pressure Science and
Technology_, edited by W. A. Trzeciakowski (World Scientific, Singapore,
1996), p. 289. * [25] R. D. Shannon, Acta Crystallogr., Sect. A: Cryst.
Phys., Diffr., Theor. Gen. Crystallogr. **32**, 751 (1976). * [26] H.
Fujihisa (private communications). * [27] A. Ohmura, K. Sato, N. Hamaya,
M. Isshiki, and Y. Ohishi, Phys. Rev. B **80**, 054201 (2009).
