# Carbon isotope effect in superconducting MgCNi₃

T. Klimczuk^(1, 2) and R. J. Cava¹

¹Department of Chemistry, Princeton University, Princeton, New Jersey
08544, USA

²Faculty of Applied Physics and Mathematics, Gdansk University of
Technology, Naratuwicza 11/12, 80-952 Gdansk, Poland

7 September 2004200430 December 2004

###### Abstract

The effect of carbon isotope substitution on T_(C) in the intermetallic
perovskite superconductor MgCNi₃ is reported. Four independent groups of
samples were synthesized and characterized. The average T_(C) for the
¹²C samples was found to be 7.12±0.02 K and the average T_(C) for the
¹³C samples was found to be 6.82±0.02 K. The resulting carbon isotope
effect coefficient is α_(C)=0.540±0.03. This indicates that carbon-based
phonons play a critical role in the presence of superconductivity in
this compound.

2004 10.1103/PhysRevB.70.212514 212514 2004

## Introduction

MgCNi₃ has a nonoxygen based perovskite structure and is superconducting
near 7 K.[1] MgCNi₃ and the layered borocarbides (RENi₂B₂C) (Ref. 2)
form a family of Ni-rich intermetallic superconductors in which the Ni d
states are found at the Fermi level (E_(F)), and therefore the
appearance of superconductivity rather then magnetism is at first
unexpected. Considering their structures and the potential magnetism,
MgCNi₃ and the borocarbides appear to be a bridge between conventional,
intermetallic superconductors and high-T_(C). cuprates, and thus
questions about the nature of their superconductivity are of interest.

For the case of MgCNi₃, conventional phonon-mediated, moderate [1, 3]
and strong [4, 5] coupling superconductivity have been proposed from
analysis of the specific heat. Strong coupling is also supported by
thermopower measurements [6] and the presence of a large energy gap. [4]
Further, _s_-wave pairing has been proposed from tunneling spectroscopy,
[7] point contact tunneling spectroscopy (Ref. 8), ¹³C NMR studies, [9]
and specific heat measurements. [3] However the closeness of
ferromagnetism, [10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15] a _p_-wave superconducting
order parameter and triplet superconductivity have been proposed as
possibilities. [15] Finally, evidence for unconventional
superconductivity has been provided by penetration depth, [16]
tunnelling spectra, [4] and critical current measurements. [17]

The carbon atom occupies a special position in the crystal structure of
MgCNi₃, in the center of the Ni octahedron. The Ni provides the peak in
the density of states at E_(F). From previous work, it is known that
variation of the carbon stoichiometry in MgC_(1 − x)Ni₃ decreases T_(C),
and that for x about 0.2 superconductivity is no longer observed. [5,
18] The important role of carbon for the presence of superconductivity,
its position in the crystal structure, and the fact that it is the
lowest mass element in the compound, make carbon a good candidate for a
possible superconducting isotope effect. In this paper, we report the
first study of the carbon isotope effect in MgCNi₃. Surprisingly, the
isotope effect is found to be substantial, suggesting that C-based
phonons play an essential role in the superconducting mechanism.

## Experiment

Four independent groups of 0.2 g samples of Mg¹²CNi₃ and Mg¹³CNi₃ were
synthesized. In each group, one ¹²C and one ¹³C sample were made. The
starting materials were bright Mg flakes (99

## Results and Discussion

The crystallographic cell parameter was determined from least-squares
fits to nine x-ray reflections between 20 and 90 degrees 2 _th_ for
representative ¹²C and ¹³C samples. There is no observable isotope mass
dependence of the unit cell parameter, _a_=3.8109(6) Aand _a_=3.8116(15)
A for Mg¹²CNi₃ and Mg¹³CNi₃, respectively. These lattice parameters are
in agreement with previously reported values for stoichiometric MgCNi₃.
[1, 18, 20]

Zero field cooled normalized magnetization data are presented in Fig. 1
for samples containing both ¹²C and ¹³C isotopes: data from the Mg¹²CNi₃
samples are plotted in the top panel (closed squares) and data from the
Mg¹³CNi₃ samples are plotted in the bottom panel (closed circles). As
can be seen from a cursory inspection of Fig. 1, there is a clear shift
of the superconducting critical temperature (T_(C)) to lower
temperatures in the ¹³C samples. The magnetization data in the plot have
been normalized to the 4.5 K values to facilitate easy comparison near
T_(C). For a detailed comparison, T_(C) was taken as the temperature
where the extrapolation of the steepest slope of the real part of the
diamagnetic magnetization versus temperature curves intersects the
extrapolation of the normal state magnetization to lower temperatures,
removing ambiguities inherent in the use of an "onset" temperature for
defining T_(C). This extrapolation for one representative sample is
presented in the bottom panel of Fig. 1.

The T_(C) data are summarized in Table 1. The average shift, ΔT_(C)=
T_(C)(¹²C) - T_(C)(¹³C), was calculated to be 300 mK, with the standard
deviation value 15 mK. The carbon isotope effect ($a_{\rm C}$) for each
of the four groups was then calculated from the following relation:

$$\alpha_{\rm C}=-\frac{\Delta\ln(T_{C})}{\Delta\ln(M_{C})}=-\frac{\ln\frac{T_{C} \left({}^{12}{\rm C}\right)}{T_{C}\left({}^{13}{\rm C}\right)}}{\ln\frac{12}{13}},$$

where T_(C) and M_(C) are a critical temperature and a molecular isotope
mass ratio, respectively.

The average value of the carbon isotope effect is therefore
$\alpha_{\rm C}$=0.54±0.03. Table 1 presents the results for all sample
groups.

For a phonon-mediated superconductor, McMillan has shown that T_(C) is
proportional to M^(−α) (T_(C)∝ 1/M^(α)), where α is given by [19]

$$\alpha=\frac{1}{2}\Bigg{(}1-\left(\mu*\ \ln\frac{\Theta_{\rm D}}{1.45T_{C}} \right)^{2}\frac{1+0.62\lambda}{1+\lambda}\Bigg{)}.$$

The Debye temperature ($\Theta_{\rm D}$) values reported for MgCNi₃
range between 256 and 351 K. [3, 4, 5, 20] The electron-phonon coupling
constant (λ) has been reported to be in the range from λ = 0.77, [1]
0.83 (Ref. [3]) (from specific heat measurements) to λ(0) = 1.4 (Ref.
[6]) (from thermopower measurements). We take the values
$\Theta_{\rm D}$=256 K and λ = 0.77 for our calculations, and note that
α is not very sensitive to these parameters. $\alpha_{\rm C}$ is
sensitive to the Coulomb coupling constant between electrons (μ*)
however, which has been reported to be in the range 0.10-0.15. [21] This
yields an expected $\alpha_{\rm C}$ in the range of 0.4-0.45 from the
general characterization of MgCNi₃. Our observed value of 0.54±0.03 for
the isotope effect of carbon is higher than but similar to that value.

## Conclusions

To summarize we have measured the carbon isotope effect in MgCNi₃. The
obtained value, $\alpha_{\rm C}$=0.54±0.03, is very close to what is
expected for a phonon-mediated superconductor. This result indicates
that carbon-based phonons play a critical role in the presence of
superconductivity in this compound, which shows some unconventional
characteristics in its superconducting state.

The carbon isotope effect $\alpha_{\rm C}$=0.54 is higher but similar to
that reported for Rb₃C₆₀$\alpha_{\rm C}$=0.37, [22]^(0.21), [23] and
substantially higher than that for the related borocarbide YNi₂B₂C,
where $\alpha_{\rm C}$ is reported to be very close to zero
($\alpha_{\rm C}$=0.07). [24] For the borocarbide, however, the boron
isotope effect is measured to be $\alpha_{\rm B}$=0.25 (Ref. [24]) and
0.21 (Ref. [25]) indicating a substantial contribution of boron derived
phonons to the superconducting mechanism. The boron isotope effect value
in the borocarbide is very close to that in MgB₂, reported to be in the
range $\alpha_{\rm B}$=0.28 (Ref. [26]) to $\alpha_{\rm B}$=0.30 (Ref.
[27]). The implication of our measurement is that the vibration of the
carbon within the Ni₆ octahedron strongly modulates the charge in the
Ni–Ni near neighbor bonds that dominate the

Figure 1: AC normalized magnetization ($M/M_{A.5\ {\rm K}}$) data for
all samples in the temperature range 6–7.5 K. Upper panel presents
Mg¹²CNi₃ (close squares) and bottom panel presents Mg¹³CNi₃ data (close
circles).

density of states at the Fermi energy (E_(F)). If so, then this would be
similar to the case in the borocarbide superconductors, where B–C–B
phonons have been proposed to strongly influence the charge distribution
at E_(F) in states dominated by Ni orbital character.[28]

###### Acknowledgements.

The authors thank M. Mierzejewski and M. M. Maska (University of
Silesia, Poland) for fruitful discussions. This work was supported by
the US Department of Energy, Grant No. DE-FG02-98-ER45706.

## References

* [1] T. He, Q. Huang, A. P. Ramirez, Y. Wang, K. A. Regan, N. Rogado,
M. A. Hayward, M. K. Haas, J. J. Slusky, K. Inumara, H. W. Zandbergen,
N. P. Ong, and R. J. Cava, Nature (London) **411**, 54 (2001). *
[2]_Proceedings of the NATO Advanced Research Workshop on Rare Earth
Transition Metal Borocarbides (Nitrides): Superconducting, Magnetic and
Normal State Properties_, edited by K.-H. Muller and V. Narozhnyi
(Kluwer Academic, Berlin, 2001). * [3] J.-Y. Lin, P. L. Ho, H. L. Huang,
P. H. Lin, Y.-L. Zhang, R.-C. Yu, C.-Q. Jin, and H. D. Yang, Phys. Rev.
B **67**, 052501 (2003). * [4] Z. Q. Mao, M. M. Rosario, K. D. Nelson,
K. Wu, I. G. Deac, P. Schiffer, Y. Liu, T. He, K. A. Regan, and R. J.
Cava, Phys. Rev. B **67**, 094502 (2003). * [5] L. Shan, K. Xia, Z. Y.
Liu, H. H. Wen, Z. A. Ren, G. C. Che, and Z. X. Zhao, Phys. Rev. B
**68**, 024523 (2003). * [6] S. Y. Li, W. Q. Mo. Yu, W. H. Zheng, C. H.
Wang, Y. M. Xiong, R. Fan, H. S. Yang, B. M. Wu, L. Z. Cao, and X. H.
Chen, Phys. Rev. B **65**, 064534 (2002). * [7] G. Kinoda, M. Nishiyama,
Y. Zhao, M. Murakami, N. Koshizuka, and T. Hasegava, Jpn. J. Appl.
Phys., Part 2 **40**, L1365 (2001). * [8] L. Shan, H. J. Tao, H. Gao, Z.
Z. Li, Z. A. Ren, G. C. Che, and H. H. Wen, Phys. Rev. B **68**, 144510
(2003). * [9] P. M. Singer, T. Imai, T. He, M. A. Hayward, and R. J.
Cava, Phys. Rev. Lett. **87**, 257601 (2001). * [10] S. B. Dugdale, T.
Jarlborg, Phys. Rev. B **64**, 100508(R) (2001). * [11] A. Szajek, J.
Phys.: Condens. Matter **13**, L595 (2001). * [12] D. J. Singh and I. I.
Mazin, Phys. Rev. B **64**, 140507(R) (2001). * [13] I. R. Shein, A. L.
Ivanovskii, E. Z. Kurmaev, A. Moewes, S. Chiuzbian, L. D. Finkelstein,
M. Neumann, Z. A. Ren, and G. C. Che, Phys. Rev. B **66**, 024520
(2002). * [14] J. H. Shim, S. K. Kwon, and B. I. Min, Phys. Rev. B
**64**, 180510(R) (2001). * [15] H. Rosner, R. Weht, M. D. Johannes, W.
E. Pickett, and E. Tosatti, Phys. Rev. Lett. **88**, 027001 (2002). *
[16] R. Prozorov, A. Snezhko, T. He, and R. J. Cava, Phys. Rev. B
**68**, 180502(R) (2003). * [17] D. P. Young, M. Moldovan, D. D. Craig,
P. W. Adams, and J. Y. Chan, Phys. Rev. B **68**, 020501(R) (2003). *
[18] T. G. Amos, Q. Huang, J. W. Lynn, T. He, and R. J. Cava, Solid
State Commun. **121**, 73 (2002). * [19] W. L. McMillan, Phys. Rev.
**167**, 331 (1968). * [20] A. Das and R. K. Kremer, Phys. Rev. B
**68**, 064503 (2003). * [21] C. P. Poole, Jr., _Handbook of
Superconductivity_, (Academic, New York, 2000). * [22] A. P. Ramirez, A.
R. Kortan, M. J. Rosseinsky, S. J. Duclos, A. M. Mujose, R. C. Haddon,
D. W. Murphy, A. V. Makhija, S. M. Zahurak, and K. B. Lyons, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **68**, 1058 (1992). * [23] M. S. Fuhrer, K. Cherrey, A. Zettl, M.
L. Cohen, and V. H. Crespi, Phys. Rev. Lett. **83**, 404 (1999). * [24]
D. D. Lawrie and J. P. Franck, Physica C **245**, 159 (1995). * [25] K.
O. Chen, I. R. Fisher, and P. C. Canfield, Physica C **312**, 35
(1995). * [26] S. L. Bud’ko, G. Lapertot, C. Petrovic, C. E. Cunningham,
N. Anderson, and P. C. Canfield, Phys. Rev. Lett. **86**, 1877 (2001). *
[27] D. G. Hinks, H. Claus, and J. D. Jorgensen, Nature (London)
**411**, 457 (2001). * [28] L. F. Mattheiss, T. Siegrist, and R. J.
Cava, Solid State Commun. **91**, 587 (1994).
