# Evidence for two distinct superconducting phases in EuBiS₂F under
pressure

C. Y. Guo,¹ Y. Chen,¹ M. Smidman,¹ S. A. Chen,² W. B. Jiang,¹ H. F.
Zhai,¹ Y. F. Wang,¹ G. H. Cao,^(1, 3) J. M. Chen,² X. Lu,^(1, 3,)1 and
H. Q. Yuan

xinulphy@zju.edu.cn ¹Center for Correlated Matter and Department of
Physics, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, Zhejiang 310058, China

²National Synchrotron Radiation Research Center, Hsinchu 30076, Taiwan

³Collaborative Innovation Center of Advanced Microstructures, Nanjing
210093, China

Footnote 1: hqyuan@zju.edu.cn

###### Abstract

We present a pressure study of the electrical resistivity, ac magnetic
susceptibility, and powder x-ray diffraction (XRD) of the recently
discovered BiS₂-based superconductor EuBiS₂F. At ambient pressure,
EuBiS₂F shows an anomaly in the resistivity at around T_(c) ≈ 280 K and
a superconducting transition at T_(c) ≈ 0.3 K. Upon applying hydrostatic
pressure, there is little change in T₀ but the amplitude of the
resistive anomaly is suppressed, whereas there is a dramatic enhancement
of T_(c) from 0.3 K to about 8.6 K at a critical pressure of p_(c) ≈ 1.4
GPa. XRD measurements confirm that this enhancement of T_(c) coincides
with a structural phase transition from a tetragonal phase (P4/mmm) to a
monoclinic phase (P2₁/m), which is similar to that observed in
isostructural LaO_(0.3)F_(0.5)BiS₂. Our results suggest the presence of
two different superconducting phases with distinct crystal structures in
EuBiS₂F, which may be a general property of this family of BiS₂-based
superconductors.

pacs: 74.70.Xa, 74.62.Fj, 74.25.F- + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL
REVIEW B **91**, 214512 (2015)

## I Introduction

The recently discovered BiS₂-based superconductors [1,2] have attracted
considerable attention. Similar to cuprate and iron pnictide
superconductors [3,4], these compounds possess layered crystal
structures but with a rather low superconducting transition temperature
(T_(c)). The first BiS₂-based superconductor Bi₄O₄S₃, which crystallizes
in a body-centered tetragonal structure (space group I4/mmm) consisting
of double layers of BiS₂, separated by units of Bi₂O₂ and SO₄, shows a
metallic normal state before becoming superconducting at T_(c) ≈ 5 K
[1]. Subsequently, another family of BiS₂-based superconductors
L_(0.1 − x)F_(x)BiS₂ (L= La, Ce, Pr, or Nd) [2,5, 6, 7, 8] with a
primitive tetragonal structure (space group P4/nmm) has also been
studied intensively. This structure contains the same double BiS₂ layers
but in this instance they are separated by units of LO_(1 − x)F_(x). At
ambient pressure, these compounds become superconducting upon adding
charge carriers via substituting F for O and there is a change from
insulating to semiconducting behavior.

A dramatic enhancement of T_(c) was observed on applying pressure to
LO_(1 − x)F_(x)BiS₂ (L= La, Ce, Pr, or Nd) [9, 10, 11], which seems to
be a general feature of this family of BiS₂-based superconductors. For
example, LaO_(0.5)F_(0.5)BiS₂ becomes superconducting at T_(c) ≃ 2.5 K
at ambient pressure, but its T_(c) undergoes a sharp increase at p ≃ 0.7
GPa, reaching T_(c) ≃ 10.7 K [10]. Furthermore, a similarly large T_(c)
was also measured at ambient pressure for LaO_(0.5)F_(0.5)BiS₂ samples
synthesized in high-pressure conditions [12]. However, the underlying
mechanism behind the pressure-induced enhancement of T_(c) remains
unresolved. The increase of T_(c) under pressure could be due to
modifications of the electronic structure and, in particular, it has
been suggested that it may be related to an increase in the density of
charge carriers upon the suppression of semiconducting behavior [11].
Differences in Hall effect measurements of Eu₃Bi₂S₄F₄ at low and high
pressures also suggest a pressure-induced change in the electronic
structure [13]. It was also found that in LaO_(0.5)F_(0.5)BiS₂ the jump
in T_(c) is accompanied by a structural phase transition from a
tetragonal to a monoclinic structure [10]. On the other hand, different
behavior is shown in Bi₄O₄S₃, where T_(c) decreases upon applying
pressure, reaching about 3 K at 2 GPa [14], and the material is metallic
in the normal state. The parent compound Bi₆O₈S₅ is a band insulator,
but a 50

The recently discovered BiS₂-based superconductor EuBiS₂F, which is
isostructural to LO_(1 − x)F_(x)BiS₂, displays unique properties [16].
Not only does it become superconducting at T_(c) ≈ 0.3 K, there is also
an anomaly in the resistivity at around 280 K, which has been proposed
to be a charge density wave (CDW) transition [16]. There is no change in
the crystal structure down to 13 K but a small anomaly in the ratio of
the lattice parameters c/a is observed around 280 K. The strong
hybridization between Eu 4f and Bi 6p electrons results in a large
electronic specific heat coefficient of about 73 mJ/mol K². Importantly,
this compound does not exhibit significant semiconducting behavior at
low temperatures, which is different from most other LO_(1 − x)F_(x)BiS₂
superconductors. Therefore, EuBiS₂F may provide us a valuable
opportunity to study the origin of the dramatic enhancement of T_(c) in
LO_(1 − x)F_(x)BiS₂ under pressure and also the possible interplay of
superconductivity and CDW order. In this paper, we report electrical
resistivity, ac magnetic susceptibility, and powder x-ray diffraction
measurements of EuBiS₂F under high pressure. It is found that the
resistive anomaly around 280 K is weakened under pressure and vanishes
around p_(c) ≈ 1.4 GPa. On the other hand, the superconducting
transition temperature undergoes an enormous increase from T_(c) ≃ 0.3 K
to 8.6 K at p_(c), where a structural phase transition from the
tetragonal phase (P4/nmm) to a monoclinic phase (P2₁/m) takes place.
These results suggest that two distinct superconducting phases,
corresponding to two distinct crystal structures, exist in EuBiS₂F.

## II Experimental Methods

Polycrystalline samples of EuBiS₂F were synthesized by a solid-state
reaction method, as described in Ref. [16]. Resistivity measurements
under hydrostatic pressure were performed up to about 2.4 GPa using a
piston-cylinder-type pressure cell, with Daphne 7373 used as a
pressure-transmitting medium. The applied pressure was determined by
measuring the shift in T_(c) of a high-quality Pb sample.
High-temperature measurements were performed using a physical property
measurement system (Quantum Design PPMS-14T) in a temperature range of 2
to 300 K. The low-temperature measurements were performed using a ³He
refrigerator down to 0.3 K. All resistivity measurements were carried
out using a standard four-probe method with four Pt wires spot welded to
the sample surface. ac magnetic susceptibility measurements were carried
out with a set of coils designed in house, consisting of a drive coil, a
pick-up coil, and a coil for compensation. The system was driven with an
applied current of 0.1 mA at a frequency of 1523 Hz and the voltage
signal was measured using an SR-830 lock-in amplifier. The dc magnetic
susceptibility was measured using a superconducting quantum interference
device (SQUID) magnetometer and a magnetic property measurement system
(Quantum Design MPMS-5T). High-pressure powder x-ray diffraction (XRD)
measurements were carried out at the BL12B2 Taiwan beamline of Spring-8.
Finely grained EuBiS₂F powder and spread-out tiny ruby balls for
pressure determination were filled into the pinhole (diameter 235 μm) of
a stainless steel gasket mounted on a diamond anvil cell with a culet
size of 450 μm. A mixture of methanol, ethanol, and water in a ratio of
16:3:1 was used as the pressure-transmitting medium in the XRD
measurements [17]. Measurements of the fluorescence line shift were
performed at multiple positions in the sample chamber using a laser with
a diameter of 5-10 μm. This was measured before and after each exposure
to confirm the hydrostatic nature of the applied pressure. With a
monochromatic beam (λ = 0.689 69 A), the two-dimensional (2D)
diffraction images were collected using an ADSC Quantum 4R CCD x-ray
detector and then transformed into 1D patterns by using the program
fit2d. A high-quality CeO₂ standard (99.99

## III Results

### Resistivity and ac susceptibility

The temperature dependence of the electrical resistivity [ρ(T)] of
EuBiS₂F at various pressures is displayed in Fig. 1(a). At ambient
pressure, ρ(T) shows a broad hump below ≃280 K, which has been proposed
to be a CDW-type transition [16]. At low temperatures, a superconducting
transition is observed with T_(c) ≃ 0.3 K, which is consistent with
previous measurements. Figure 1(b) displays the derivative of ρ(T) in
the high-temperature region where the minimum at T₀ corresponds to the
broad hump. The temperature where this feature occurs changes little
with increasing pressure up to 1.3 GPa, but the amplitude weakens. For
pressures greater than 1.3 GPa, the anomaly cannot be detected and the
resistivity monotonically decreases below 300 K. The high-temperature
resistivity is shown in Fig. 1(c), measured upon heating and cooling.
The difference between the curves clearly shows the presence of
hysteresis associated with the anomaly at T₀.

Unlike the possible CDW transition at T₀, the superconducting transition
of EuBiS₂F varies considerably upon applying pressure. As shown in Fig.
2(a), for p < p_(c) ≃ 1.4 GPa there is a slight increase of T_(c) with
increasing pressure and the superconducting transition is broader. Upon
increasing the pressure to 1.7 GPa, T_(c) significantly increases from
below 1 K to around 8.6 K. Further increasing the pressure above 1.7 GPa
results in no significant change of T_(c) and the superconducting
transition remains sharp. At the critical pressure of p_(c) ≃ 1.4 GPa,
the superconducting transition becomes significantly broader, which is
likely attributable to small pressure inhomogeneities. In addition, the
pressure dependence of the residual resistivity in the normal state also
exhibits a distinct change between 1.4 and 1.7 GPa. Below 1.4 GPa, the
residual resistivity decreases upon applying pressure, but at higher
pressures, there is no significant change. Measurements of the real part
of the ac magnetic susceptibility (χ^(′)) under pressure are shown in
Fig. 2(b). The data are given in absolute units which were obtained by
scaling χ^(′)(T) above 2 K to the dc magnetic susceptibility measured in
the MPMS. At a low pressure of p = 0.4 GPa, the onset of diamagnetic
shielding occurs at 0.4 K, which is consistent with the

Figure 1: (Color online) (a) Temperature dependence of the electrical
resistivity ρ(T) of EuBiS₂F at various pressures in the temperature
range 0.3 to 300 K. (b) The derivative of ρ(T) across the
high-temperature region, where the presence of the anomaly at T₀ is
shown by the minimum of the data. (c) The resistivity anomaly at T₀
(p = 0), measured upon both heating and cooling, which shows clear
hysteresis.

observed in resistivity measurements. There is a slight increase in
T_(c) with pressure, reaching 0.7 K at 1.1 GPa. Due to the low T_(c) and
broadening of the transition, χ^(′) continues to decrease even at the
lowest measured temperature of 0.3 K. At a pressure of 1.5 GPa, there is
a large enhancement of T_(c) to 8.6 K, which is in good agreement with
the resistivity measurements. At low temperatures χ^(′) reaches a near
constant value of about −1.4, which is lower than the value of −1
corresponding to full diamagnetic shielding and this is likely to be due
to demagnetization effects. The imaginary part of the ac magnetic
susceptibility χ^(′′) is shown in the inset, and the peak is due to
energy loss at the onset of superconductivity.

Resistivity measurements were also performed at the highest pressure
(p ≈ 2.4 GPa) with an applied magnetic field. It can be seen in Fig.
3(a) that, with increasing magnetic field, the superconducting
transition is shifted to lower temperatures and becomes significantly
broader. The results at high fields show a kink at T^(*), which is
similar to that observed in the high-pressure phase of polycrystalline
Eu₃Bi₂S₄[13]. As EuBiS₂F has a layered structure, its upper critical
field is expected to be anisotropic, as observed in the isostructural
LaO_(0.5)F_(0.5)BiS₂[18]. Since a polycrystalline sample contains grains
of different orientations, the upper critical field may vary from grain
to grain, leading to a kink in the resistivity at high magnetic fields.
However, we also cannot exclude other possibilities at the present time,
such as a field-induced transition inside the superconducting state.
Figure 3(b) shows the upper critical field (B_(c2)) determined from
where the resistivity reaches 90

### X-ray diffraction

To examine whether there is a change in crystal structure correlated
with the enhancement of T_(c) in EuBiS₂F, we performed high-pressure
powder XRD measurements at room temperature, as shown in Fig. 4(a). At
ambient pressure, EuBiS₂F crystallizes in a tetragonal structure with
the space group P4/nmm, which is consistent with the previous report
[16]. It can be seen that all the patterns measured at applied

Figure 4: (Color online) (a) Room-temperature powder x-ray diffraction
patterns of polycrystalline EuBiS₂F at various pressures. Additional
Bragg peaks are observed for p > p_(c) ≃ 1.4 GPa, evidencing a
structural phase transition. (b) XRD pattern at p = 3.0 GPa and its
refinement for a monoclinic crystal structure with space group P2₁/m.

Figure 3: (Color online) Temperature dependence of the resistivity of
EuBiS₂F under applied magnetic fields at about 2.4 GPa. (a) displays the
temperature dependence of the resistivity at various magnetic fields,
while (b) shows the upper critical field determined from the temperature
where the resistivity drops to 90

Figure 2: (Color online) (a) Temperature dependence of the electrical
resistivity ρ(T) of EuBiS₂F below 10 K, in the vicinity of the
superconducting transition. (b) Temperature dependence of the real part
of the ac magnetic susceptibility χ^(′) measured at several pressures,
with the imaginary component χ^(′′) shown in the inset.

pressures display an additional peak at around 28.1^(∘) due to
diffraction from the ruby balls, which are used to determine the
pressure in the diamond anvil cell. At applied pressures greater than
1.4 GPa, different Bragg peaks are observed, which is clear evidence for
a change in crystal structure, and an increase in the number of peaks
indicates a reduction in the crystal symmetry. Similar behavior is
observed in LaO_(0.5)F_(0.5)BiS₂[10], where a structural phase
transition occurs from a tetragonal (P4/nmm) to a monoclinic(P2₁/m)
structure. Upon further increasing pressure, no additional changes in
the crystal structure are observed up to 12.6 GPa. To determine the
crystal structure at high pressures, we analyzed the diffraction pattern
at 3.0 GPa, which is displayed in Fig. 4(b). The pattern was fitted by
performing a structural refinement using the gsas + expgui software
[20], with the monoclinic structure from Ref. [10]. The solid line shows
the fitted curve, and this indicates that the Bragg peaks at high
pressure can be reasonably accounted for by this structure. It should be
noted that, although there is a good agreement between the theoretical
and experimental peak positions, the peak intensities are not perfectly
matched. Inaccuracies of the relative peak intensities are a frequent
problem when measuring powder XRD in a diamond anvil cell due to the
small sample mass and the presence of preferred orientations [21].
Therefore, the atomic positions in the pressure-induced phase may be
best determined from density functional theory calculations as reported
previously [10], rather than from refinements of XRD data.

## IV Summary and discussion

The results measured under applied pressure are summarized by the phase
diagram in Fig. 5. Below p_(c) ≃ 1.4 GPa, T_(c) increases slightly with
increasing pressure. On the other hand, the position of the broad hump
in the resistivity at T₀ is nearly unchanged, but its amplitude is
reduced with increasing pressure. Around p_(c) ≃ 1.4 GPa, there is a
dramatic enhancement of T_(c), whereas the high-temperature resistive
anomaly at T₀ vanishes. The large uncertainty of T_(c) at 1.4 GPa
reflects the broad nature of the transition, arising from the
coexistence of the low- and high-pressure phases as a result of the
small pressure inhomogeneities in the measurements. In addition, the
crystal structure undergoes a transition from a tetragonal (P4/nmm) to a
monoclinic(P2₁/m) structure between 1.4 and 1.8 GPa and the residual
resistivity also shows a steplike decrease across the critical pressure
region of p_(c) ≃ 1.4 GPa. Upon further increasing pressure, there is no
significant change of T_(c).

The above phase diagram of EuBiS₂F is similar to that observed in other
LO_(1 − x)F_(x)BiS₂ superconductors, with all the compounds showing a
comparable value of T_(c) at high pressures. In contrast to the other
materials, EuBiS₂F does not show significant semiconducting behavior and
therefore the enhancement of T_(c) is not simply associated with the
suppression of this behavior. However, the high-pressure XRD results
reveal a similar structural phase transition in both
LaO_(0.5)F_(0.5)BiS₂[10] and EuBiS₂F (this study). This suggests that
two different superconducting phases, associated with two distinct
crystal structures, may exist in LO_(1 − x)F_(x)BiS₂; the low-T_(c)
superconducting phase (SC1) in the tetragonal structure and the
high-T_(c) phase (SC2) in the monoclinic structure as shown in Fig. 5.
The dramatic enhancement of T_(c) under pressure is likely due to
differences in the electronic structure between these two structural
phases which could be examined by band-structure calculations.
Furthermore, it is also important to extend the high-pressure XRD
measurements to other compounds in order to confirm the generality of
this observation. In comparison with other LO_(1 − x)F_(x)BiS₂
superconductors, EuBiS₂F shows a greatly reduced T_(c) at low pressures,
which could be attributable to the Eu 4f magnetic moments or its valence
state [16]. However, the values of T_(c) for all these compounds are
similar in the high-pressure region [9, 11] and therefore the structural
phase transition at p_(c) ≃ 1.4 GPa is likely accompanied by a change of
the Eu valence, which may also lead to the disappearance of the
resistive anomaly at T₀ above p_(c). To confirm the possible changes of
the Eu valence in EuBiS₂F under pressure, it would be desirable to
perform experiments such as x-ray absorption spectroscopy.

In summary, we have performed electrical resistivity, ac magnetic
susceptibility, and XRD measurements on EuBiS₂F under pressure. It is
found that T_(c) of EuBiS₂F is dramatically enhanced at p_(c) ≃ 1.4 GPa,
around which pressure the resistive anomaly at T₀ ≃ 280 K vanishes and a
structural phase transition is observed at room temperature. Our results
suggest that EuBiS₂F has two different superconducting phases
corresponding to two different crystal structures; a low-T_(c)
superconducting phase in the tetragonal structure and a high-T_(c) phase
in the monoclinic structure. These observations may be a general feature
of this family of BiS₂-based superconductors, which needs to be
confirmed by further experiments. Furthermore, this also implies that
the monoclinic structure may favor a superconducting phase with a higher
T_(c), providing additional insights towards how T_(c) may be enhanced.

Figure 5: (Color online) Temperature-pressure phase diagram for EuBiS₂F
in which both T_(c) and T₀ are displayed. Values of T_(c)^(R) were taken
from the midpoint of the resistivity transitions, while T_(c)^(L) are
from the onset of the transition in the ac magnetic susceptibility; the
two experimental methods give consistent results. The uncertainties in
T_(c)^(R) were estimated from where the resistivity drops to 10

## Acknowledgments

We thank C. Cao for useful discussions. This work was supported by the
National Basic Research Program of China (Grant No. 2011CBA00103), the
National Natural Science Foundation of China (Grants No. 11174245 and
No. 11374257), and the Fundamental Research Funds for the Central
Universities.

## References

* [1] Y. Mizuguchi, H. Fujihisa, Y. Gotoh, K. Suzuki, H. Usui, K.
Kuroki, S. Demura, Y. Takano, H. Izawa, and O. Miura, Phys. Rev. B
**86**, 220510(R) (2012). * [2] Y. Mizuguchi, S. Demura, K. Deguchi, Y.
Takano, H. Fujihisa, Y. Gotoh, H. Izawa, and O. Miura, J. Phys. Soc.
Jpn. **81**, 114725 (2012). * [3] J. G. Bednorz and K. A. Muller, Z.
Phys. B **64**, 189 (1986). * [4] Y. Kamihara, T. Watanabe, M. Hirano,
and H. Hosono, J. Am. Chem. Soc. **130**, 3296 (2008). * [5] J. Xing, S.
Li, X. Ding, H. Yang, and H. H. Wen, Phys. Rev. B **86**, 214518
(2012). * [6] R. Jha, A. Kumar, S. K. Singh, and V. P. S. Awana, J.
Supercond. Novel Magn. **26**, 499 (2013). * [7] S. Demura, Y.
Mizuguchi, K. Deguchi, H. Okazaki, H. Hara, T. Watanabe, S. J. Denholme,
M. Fujioka, T. Ozaki, H. Fujihisa, Y. Gotoh, O. Miura, T. Yamaguchi, H.
Takeya, and Y. Takano, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **82**, 033708 (2013). * [8]
R. Jha, A. Kumar, S. K. Singh, and V. P. S. Awana, J. Appl. Phys.
**113**, 056102 (2013). * [9] C. T. Wolowiec, D. Yazici, B. D. White, K.
Huang, and M. B. Maple, Phys. Rev. B **88**, 064503 (2013). * [10] T.
Tomita, M. Ebata, H. Soeda, H. Takahashi, H. Fujihisa, Y. Gotoh, Y.
Mizuguchi, H. Izawa, O. Miura, S. Demura, K. Deguchi, and Y. Takano, J.
Phys. Soc. Jpn. **83**, 063704 (2014). * [11] C. T. Wolowiec, B. D.
White, I. Jeon, D. Yazici, K. Huang, and M. B. Maple, J. Phys.: Condens.
Matter **25**, 422201 (2013). * [12] K. Deguchi, Y. Mizuguchi, S.
Demura, H. Hara, T. Watanabe, S. J. Denholme, M. Fujioka, H. Okazaki, T.
Ozaki, H. Takeya, T. Yamaguchi, O. Miura, and Y. Takano, Europhys. Lett.
**101**, 17004 (2013). * [13] Y. K. Luo, H. F. Zhai, P. Zhang, Z. A. Xu,
G. H. Cao, and J. D. Thompson, Phys. Rev. B **90**, 220510(R) (2014). *
[14] H. Kotegawa, Y. Tomita, H. Tou, H. Izawa, Y. Mizuguchi, O. Miura,
S. Demura, K. Deguchi, and Y. Takano, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **81**, 103702
(2012). * [15] Y. Mizuguchi, J. Phys. Chem. Solids **84**, 34 (2015). *
[16] H. F. Zhai, Z. T. Tang, H. Jiang, K. Xu, K. Zhang, P. Zhang, J. K.
Bao, Y. L. Sun, W. H. Jiao, I. Nowik, I. Felner, Y. K. Li, X. F. Xu, Q.
Tao, C. M. Feng, Z. A. Xu, and G. H. Cao, Phys. Rev. B **90**, 064518
(2014). * [17] R. J. Angel, M. Bujak, J. Zhao, G. D. Gatta, and S. D.
Jacobsen, J. Appl. Crystallogr. **40**, 26 (2007). * [18] M. Nagao, A.
Miura, S. Demura, K. Deguchi, S. Watauchi, T. Takei, Y. Takano, N.
Kumada, and I. Tanaka, Solid State Commun. **178**, 33 (2014). * [19] X.
Lin, X. X. Ni, B. Chen, X. F. Xu, X. X. Yang, J. H. Dai, Y. K. Li, X. J.
Yang, Y. K. Luo, Q. Tao, G. H. Cao, and Z. Xu, Phys. Rev. B **87**,
020504(R) (2013). * [20] B. H. Toby, J. Appl. Crystallogr. **34**, 210
(2001). * [21] O. Tschauner, J. McClure, and M. Nicol, J. Synchrotron
Radiat. **12**, 626 (2005).
