Effects of electron correlation, electron-phonon coupling, and
spin-orbit coupling on the isovalent Pd-substituted superconductor
SrPt₃P

Kangkang Hu,^(1, 2) Bo Gao,¹ Qiucheng Ji,¹ Yonghui Ma,^(1, 3) Wei
Li,^(1, 4,) Xueqiang Xu,³ Hui Zhang,^(4, 5) Gang Mu,^(1, 4,) Fuqiang
Huang,^(4, 5) Chuanbing Cai,² Xiaoming Xie,^(1, 4) and Mianheng
Jiang,^(1, 5)

liwei@mail.sim.ac.cn ¹State Key Laboratory of Functional Materials for
Informatics, Shanghai Institute of Microsystem and Information
Technology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shanghai 200050, China

²Shanghai Key Laboratory of High Temperature Superconductors, Shanghai
University, Shanghai 200444, China

³School of Physical Science and Technology, ShanghaiTech University,
Shanghai 201210, China

⁴CAS Center for Excellence in Superconducting Electronics (CENSE),
Shanghai 200050, China

⁵CAS Key Laboratory of Materials for Energy Conversion, Shanghai
Institute of Ceramics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shanghai 200050,
China

Received 10 January 2016; revised manuscript received 16 May 2016;
published 17 June 2016

###### Abstract

We present a systematical study on the roles of interactions among
electron correlation, electron-phonon coupling, and spin-orbit coupling
in the isovalent Pd-substituted superconductor SrPt₃P. By using the
solid state reaction method, the Pd element with the 4d orbital was
successfully substituted in the strong spin-orbit coupling
superconductors Sr(Pt_(1 − x)Pd_(x, y)). As increasing the isovalent Pd
concentrations without introducing any extra electron/hole carriers, the
superconducting transition temperature T_(c) decreases monotonously. In
addition, combining the data of resistivity and specific heat, as well
as electronic band structure calculations, we found that the electron
correlation is enhanced while the electron-phonon coupling and the
spin-orbit coupling are suppressed by Pd substitution. Our results may
provide significant insights in the natures of the interplay among the
electron correlation, electron-phonon coupling, and spin-orbit coupling
in superconductivity, and may also pave a route for understanding the
mechanism of superconductivity in heavily 5d-based superconductors.

pacs: 74.20.-b, 74.25.-b, 74.20.-b, 74.

doped samples Sr(Pt1-_x_Pd_x_)3P are prepared with adding a
corresponding amount of palladium powder (purity 99.95

The structure of the obtained samples are checked using a DX-2700 type
powder x-ray diffractometer. The magnetic susceptibility measurements
are carried out on the magnetic property measurement system (Quantum
Design, MPMS 3). The electrical resistance is measured using a
four-probe technique on the physical property measurement system
(Quantum Design, PPMS). We employ the thermal relaxation technique to
perform the specific heat measurements on PPMS. The temperatures of the
sample platform have been calibrated under different magnetic fields.

## III Results and discussions

### Crystal structure

The crystal structure of this system has been reported by T. Takayama
_et al._ previously [3], as shown in Fig. 1(a). Here we concentrate on
the influences on the crystal lattice by the Pd substitution. For this
reason, we measure the powder x-ray diffraction (XRD) on this series of
materials, and the diffraction patterns are shown in Fig. 1(b). It is
found that the main diffraction peaks can be indexed to the tetragonal
structure with the space group P4/nnm. The black line represents the
parent compound SrPt3P. The asterisks refer to some unknown impurities
which was also observed by T. Takayama _et al._[3]. With the increase of
the amount of Pd (_x_), there is no obvious increase of the impurity
phases. However, the positions of diffraction peaks start to move
apparently when x changes from 0 to 0.4, which points to the variation
of the size of the crystal lattice. This tendency can be seen clearly in
Fig. 1(c), where we enlarge the region near the (220) diffraction peak
as an example.

To investigate the influences on the crystal lattice by the Pd
substitution quantitatively, we obtain the lattice parameters by fitting
the XRD data using the software Powder-X [12]. The results are shown in
Fig. 1(d). As is shown in the graph, the crystal lattice shows a
shrinkage along the c axis, while it expands along the a axis with the
increase of doping. This tendency is very similar to that observed in
4_d_- and 5_d_-metal-doped iron arsenides SrFe2-_x_M_x_As2 (_M_ = Rh,
Ir, Pd) [13], which proves that Pd atoms take the place of Pt atoms
leading to the alteration of cell parameters. In the high doping region
above 0.4, the variation of the lattice parameters becomes gentle,
indicating the limit of the chemical substitution. We note that this is
a common phenomenon in some chemical doped materials, and such a
saturated feature has been reported elsewhere [14]. Moreover, we noticed
that the changes in the lattice parameters along the a and c axis almost
compensate for each other, which leads the unit cell volume to show only
a slight increase (about 0.3

### Superconducting transition temperature

In order to study the effect of Pd doping on the superconducting
properties, we perform the temperature dependent magnetization and
resistivity measurements on all the samples

Figure 1: (a) Crystal structure of SrPt3P. Pd element is substituted
into the site of Pt. (b) X-ray diffraction patterns for the
Sr(Pt1-_x_Pd_x_)3P samples with 0 ≤ x ≤ 0.4. (c) An enlarged view of the
(220) peak. It is clear that the peak shifts monotonously to the left
direction with doping. (d) Doping dependence of the lattice constants
and unit cell volume.

we synthesized. The temperature dependence of dc magnetic susceptibility
is shown in Fig. 2(a), where we can see a sharp decline to the negative
sides of the data for each sample with different doping. The clear
diamagnetic signal indicates the occurrence of the superconducting
transition and the onset transition point defines the critical
transition temperature T_(c). With the increase of amount of Pd, the
value of T_(c) reduces apparently. This tendency is confirmed by the
resistivity data, which is shown in Fig. 2(b). Clear superconducting
transitions to zero resistance are observed on all the samples with
different doping levels. The onset transition temperatures determined
from this figure, along with that determined from the M − T curves, are
displayed in Fig. 2(c). The blue symbols are obtained from the
magnetization measurements while the purple ones are defined by the
resistivity measurements. It can be seen that the two sets of T_(c)
values evolute parallelly and decrease linearly with x.

Generally speaking, the suppression of superconducting transition
temperature T_(c) is usually related to the changes of DOS at Fermi
level, as has been reported in the lanthanum replaced superconductor
LaPt₃P by comparing with SrPt₃P [7]. However, the calculated DOS by
means of density functional theory demonstrated that the DOS around the
Fermi level remains almost the same for different concentrations of Pd
dopants [see Fig. 5(d)], which will be discussed in the next section in
detail. This result is reasonable since the palladium is isovalent to
platinum making the carriers of the system remain unchanged. Thus, it
rules out the possibility of the effect from the changes of DOS on
superconductivity in our system. Another issue is the possible impurity
scattering effect, which comes from the palladium substitution for
platinum [15]. This possibility can also be ruled out since SrPt₃P was
reported to be an s-wave superconductor [3, 10]. According to the
Anderson’s theorem [16], the nonmagnetic impurity does not lead to an
apparent pair-breaking effect in a conventional s-wave superconductor,
and thus does not suppress the transition temperature T_(c) apparently,
which is in sharp contrast to that in a nodal superconductor, where the
zero energy excitation spectra can be modified significantly by
nonmagnetic impurities leading to the suppression of T_(c)[17]. In
addition, we noticed that pressure can also effect the superconducting
transition temperature T_(c) of this system [8]. By Pd substitution, we
find that the unit cell volume increases very slightly, as shown in Fig.
1(d). Especially, this volume remains almost unchanged below x = 0.3,
while T_(c) decreases clearly. Thus, we conjecture that such a volume
change could not explain the nature of decrease of superconducting
transition temperature T_(c).

### Electron correlation and electron-phonon coupling

Since the experimental observation of the suppression of the T_(c) does
not originate from the changes of DOS at the Fermi level, the impurity
scattering effect and the pressure effect, the T_(c) suppression is
likely to be related to the interplay among the electron correlation,
electron-phonon coupling, and the spin-orbit coupling. In order to
clarify and distinguish the interplay among them, we first evaluate the
strength of electron correlation from the coefficient of the quadratic
term in the temperature dependence of resistivity, which is a
measurement of the strength of electron-electron correlation [18, 19].
The resistivity data in the low temperature above T_(c) for the two
comparative samples with x = 0 and x = 0.3 were fitted using the formula
ρ = ρ₀ + AT², where ρ₀ and A are the fitting parameters. As shown in
Fig. 3, the fitting curves can roughly describe the experimental data in
the low temperature, demonstrating the Fermi-liquid behavior. The
coefficients of the quadratic term were determined to be
A = 3.1 × 10⁻²μΩ cm/K² and 4.5 × 10⁻²μΩ cm/K² for the two samples,
respectively, which suggests that the Pd substitution tends to enhance
the electron correlation of

Figure 3: Temperature dependence of resistivity at temperatures above
T_(c) for two samples with x = 0 and x = 0.3. The solid lines show the
fit in the low temperature range using the formula ρ = ρ₀ + AT².

Figure 2: (a) Temperature dependence of the dc magnetic susceptibility
for Sr(Pt_(1 − x)Pd₃)₂P samples with 0 ≤ x ≤ 0.4. The data were measured
via the zero-field-cooling (ZFC) mode under the field of 10 Oe. (b)
Temperature dependence of the normalized resistivity. (c) Doping
dependence of the onset superconducting transition temperature. The blue
and purple lines were defined by the ρ − T and M − T curves,
respectively.

this system. This tendency is expected as intuitively, since the
bandwidth of Pd 4d orbitals is narrower than that of Pt 5d orbitals
making the electron correlation in Pd 4d orbital electrons stronger than
that in Pt 5d orbital electrons.

On the other hand, the electron-phonon coupling has been found to be
responsible for superconductivity in the APt₃P (A= Ca, Sr and La) system
[20]. In order to check this effect, we conduct the low-temperature
specific heat (SH) measurements on two samples with x = 0 and x = 0.3
for comparison. As shown in Fig. 4(a), clearly the SH anomaly can be
observed from the raw data under zero field, which is suppressed
completely by a field of 5 T. The normal states electronic SH
coefficient γ_(n) is obtained by linearly extrapolating the data at zero
field and 5 T to 0 K, as indicated by the arrowed blue line in Fig.
4(b). The fitted value γ_(n) = 13.54 mJ/mol K² is comparable with the
previous reports [3,8]. We note here that one mole means Avogadro number
of unit cell with the chemical formula [Sr(Pt_(1 − x)Pd_(x))₃]P₂. The
electronic SH in the superconducting states can be extracted by
subtracting the data at 5 T from that at 0 T, ΔC = C(0T) − C(5 T), since
the SH data at 5 T reflect the situation of the normal states. As we
have known, the SH in the normal states is composed contributions from
the electrons and the phonons, which are not affected by the magnetic
field [21,22]. Temperature dependence of ΔC/T of the two samples with
x = 0 and x = 0.3 is shown in Fig. 4(c). The x coordinate has been
normalized to T_(c) to facilitate the comparison. It is found that the
data for the two samples coincide roughly with each other in a wide
temperature range 0.4 ≤ T/T_(c) ≤ 0.9. Such consistent behavior gives a
strong implication that the two curves will evolve similarly to lower
temperatures even to 0 K, leading to the almost same value of −γ_(n) as
denoted by the blue arrow. As for the SH jump induced by the
superconducting transition, the sample with x = 0.3 displays a lower SH
jump leading to a smaller value of ΔC/T|_(T), compared with the parent
sample SrPt₃P. The amplitude of the ratio ΔC/γ_(n)T|_(T), which reflects
the electron-phonon coupling strength, is 1.80 and 1.42 for the two
samples with x = 0 and x = 0.3, respectively. Additionally, we should
note that such a suppression of the electron-phonon coupling strength is
similar to that reported in the Si-doped SrPt₃P system [8].

### Spin-orbit coupling and first-principles calculations

As we have known, the spin-orbit coupling strength is proportional to Z⁴
(where Z is the atomic number; Z_(Pt) = 78 for Pt, and Z_(Pd) = 46 for
Pd) [23]. The ratio
$\Gamma=(\frac{Z_{\text{Pt}}}{Z_{\text{Pt}}})^{4}=8.3$ and consequently
the spin-orbit coupling strength will be decreased dramatically when the
platinum is substituted by palladium. In order to investigate the
influence of Pd substitution on DOS and the spin-orbit coupling,
accordingly clarify the origins for the suppression of T_(c) in
superconductor Sr(Pt_(1 − x)Pd_(x))₃P theoretically, we carried out the
first-principles band structure calculations on the samples with x = 0,
x = 0.17, and x = 0.33. The calculations were performed by using the
pseudopotential-based code vasp[24] within the Perdew-Burke-Ernzerhof
[25] generalized gradient approximation. Throughout the theoretical
calculations, a 500 eV cutoff in the plane wave expansion and a
12 × 12 × 12 Monkhorst k⃗ grid were chosen to ensure the calculation with
an accuracy of

Figure 4: (a) Raw data of specific heat for x = 0 plotted as C/T vs T².
(b) Enlarged view of the same data in the low temperature region. The
normal states electronic SH coefficient γ_(n) was obtained by linearly
extrapolating the data at zero field and 5 T to 0 K (see the arrowed
blue line). (c) Normalized temperature dependence of the electronic SH
contribution (with the normal-state part subtracted) for two samples
with x = 0 and x = 0.3. The arrow indicates the position of −γ_(n).

10⁻⁵ eV. The atomic coordinates were obtained by the relaxation based on
the lattice parameters from experiments. Additionally, the spin-orbit
coupling had been included throughout the calculations.

In Fig. 5, we show the energy band structures and their corresponding
DOS. By comparing the energy band structures and DOS with different Pd
contents, the low energy features of electronic structures remain almost
the same, except for lifting the degenerate bands and changing their
dispersion at some high symmetric momentum points around the Fermi
level. This originates from the nature of 4d element Pd. When the atom
Pt in SrPt₄P is partially substituted by Pd, the high symmetry of the
point group of the system was lowered leading to the lifting of some
degenerate energy bands. Because the electron correlation is not
involved in our calculations, the changes in the low energy dispersion
due to the stronger electron-electron interaction in the Pd-substituted
compounds could not be distinguished.

To quantitatively find the relation between electron correlation and
spin-orbit coupling in the present isovalent Pd doped system, we further
carried out the electron susceptibility calculations. The bare electron
susceptibility χ₀(q⃗) is given by:

$$\chi_{0}(\vec{q}) = \frac{1}{N_{\mathbf{k}}}\sum_{\mu\nu\mathbf{k}}\frac{|(\mathbf{k} +\vec{q},\mu|\mathbf{k},\nu|)^{2}}{E_{\mu,\mathbf{k}\eta\vec{q}}}-E_{\nu, \mathbf{k}}+i0^{+}[f(E_{\nu,\mathbf{k}})-f(E_{\mu,\mathbf{k}+\vec{q}})],$$

where E_(μ, k) represents the band energy measured at Fermi level E_(F),
and f(E_(μ, k)) is the Fermi-Dirac distribution function for an
eigenstate |k, μ⟩. In addition, N_(k) denotes the number of k points
used for the irreducible Brillouin zone integration. The calculated real
part of electron susceptibility is shown in Fig. 6, which demonstrates
that the peak of electron susceptibility is suppressed as the Pd
concentrations increase. This result suggests that the electron
susceptibility of the system originating from the itinerant electrons
with strong spin-orbit coupling is weakened by Pd substitution.

A previous study has shown that the inclusion of spin-orbit coupling in
the calculations is responsible for a 23

Figure 5: The electronic band structure for Sr(Pt_(1 − x)Pd_(x))P with
doping (a) x = 0, (b) x = 0.17, and (c) x = 0.33. (d) The corresponding
density of states (DOS) to the three samples. The Fermi energy was set
to zero (dashed lines).

Figure 6: The real part of bare electron susceptibility χ₀(q⃗) along the
path between high symmetric momentum points.

the electron-phonon coupling, which leads to the decrease of T_(c). Our
results also indicate that the electron correlation is not favorable to
superconductivity.

## IV Conclusion

In conclusion, we have successfully substituted Pd elements into the
position of Pt in the strong spin-orbit coupling superconductor SrPt₃P
and found that the doping of Pd not only leads to the change of lattice
parameters but also suppresses the superconducting transition
temperature T_(c). Combining the experimental measurements and band
structure calculations, it is concluded that, by influencing the
electron-phonon coupling, the completing between the spin-orbit coupling
and electron correlation may play a vital role in superconductivity of
the present 5d electron system.

###### Acknowledgements.

We are thankful for the discussions with Prof. Diego A. Zocco and Prof.
T. Hu. This work is supported by the Natural Science Foundation of China
(No. 11204338, 1127902, and 11404359), the "Strategic Priority Research
Program (B)" of the Chinese Academy of Sciences (No. XDB04040300), and
the Youth Innovation Promotion Association of the Chinese Academy of
Sciences (No. 2015187). This work is partly sponsored by the Science and
Technology Commission of Shanghai Municipality (No. 14DZ2260700 and
14521102800).

## References

* [1] J. G. Bednorz and K. A. Muller, Z. Phys. B **64**, 189 (1986). *
[2] Y. Kamihara, T. Watanabe, M. Hirano, and H. Hosono, J. Am. Chem.
Soc. **130**, 3296 (2008). * [3] T. Takayama, K. Kuwano, D. Hirai, Y.
Katsura, A. Yamamoto, and H. Takagi, Phys. Rev. Lett. **108**, 237001
(2012). * [4] C.-J. Kang, K.-H. Ahn, K.-W. Lee, and B. I. Min, J. Phys.
Soc. Jpn. **82**, 053703 (2013). * [5] H. Chen, X. Xu, C. Cao, and J.
Dai, Phys. Rev. B **86**, 125116 (2012). * [6] R. Szczesniak, A. P.
Durajski and L. Herok, Phys. Scr. **89**, 125701 (2014). * [7] I. A.
Nekrasov and M. V. Sadovskii, JETP Lett. **96**, 227 (2012). * [8] B. I.
Jawdat, B. Lv, X. Zhu, Y. Xue, and C.-W. Chu, Phys. Rev. B **91**,
094514 (2015). * [9] D. A. Zocco, S. Krannich, R. Heid, K.-P. Bohnen, T.
Wolf, T. Forrest, A. Bosak, and F. Weber, Phys. Rev. B **92**, 220504(R)
(2015). * [10] T. Shiroka, M. Pikulski, N. D. Zhigadlo, B. Batlogg, J.
Mesot, and H.-R. Ott, Phys. Rev. B **91**, 245143 (2015). * [11] G. Mu,
Y. Wang, L. Shan, and H. H. Wen, Phys. Rev. B **76**, 064527 (2007). *
[12] C. Dong, J. Appl. Crystallogr. **32**, 838 (1999). * [13] F. Han,
X. Zhu, P. Cheng, G. Mu, Y. Jia, L. Fang, Y. Wang, H. Luo, B. Zeng, B.
Shen, L. Shan, C. Ren, and H. H. Wen, Phys. Rev. B **80**, 024506
(2009). * [14] Q. C. Ji, Y. H. Ma, K. K. Hu, B. Gao, G. Mu, W. Li, T.
Hu, G. H. Zhang, Q. B. Zhao, H. Zhang, F. Q. Huang, and X. M. Xie,
Inorg. Chem. **53**, 13089 (2014). * [15] K. K. Hu, B. Gao, Q. C. Ji, Y.
H. Ma, H. Zhang, G. Mu, F. Q. Huang, C. B. Cai, and X. M. Xie, Front.
Phys. **11**, 117403 (2016). * [16] P. W. Anderson, J. Phys. Chem.
Solids **11**, 26 (1959). * [17] G. Xiao, M. Z. Cieplak, J. Q. Xiao, and
C. L. Chien, Phys. Rev. B **42**, 8752 (1990). * [18] J. Paglione, M. A.
Tanatar, D. G. Hawthorn, E. Boaknin, R. W. Hill, F. Ronning, M.
Sutherland, L. Taillefer, C. Petrovic, and P. C. Canfield, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **91**, 246405 (2003). * [19] F. Ronning, C. Capan, E. D. Bauer,
J. D. Thompson, J. L. Sarrao, and R. Movshovich, Phys. Rev. B **73**,
064519 (2006). * [20] A. Subedi, L. Ortenzi, and L. Boeri, Phys. Rev. B
**87**, 144504 (2013). * [21] G. Mu, B. Zeng, P. Cheng, Z. S. Wang, L.
Fang, B. Shen, L. Shan, C. Ren, and H. H. Wen, Chin. Phys. Lett. **27**,
037402 (2010). * [22] G. Mu, J. Tang, Y. Tanabe, J. Xu, S. Heguri, and
K. Tanigaki, Phys. Rev. B **84**, 054505 (2011). * [23] W. Li, X. Y.
Wei, J. X. Zhu, C. S. Ting, and Y. Chen, Phys. Rev. B **89**, 035101
(2014). * [24] G. Kresse and J. Furthmuller, Phys. Rev. B **54**, 11169
(1996). * [25] J. P. Perdew, K. Burke, and M. Ernzerhof, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **77**, 3865 (1996).
