Kondo effect in the charge-density-wave state of Lu_(S−x)Yb_(z)Ir⁴Si¹⁰

Manjusha Inamdar and S. Ramakrishnan

Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, Mumbai-400005, India

Received 6 November 2007; revised manuscript received 15 January 2008;
published 13 March 2008

###### Abstract

Lu₃Ir⁴Si¹⁰ is an established charge-density-wave (CDW) compound
(T_(CDW)=83 K) which undergoes superconducting transition (SC) at low
temperatures (T_(C)=3.9 K), leading to the coexistence of CDW and SC. On
the other hand, Yb₃Ir⁴Si¹⁰ is a Kondo lattice compound that shows
possible CDW transition below 48 K. In this study, we explore the
influence of small Yb substitution for Lu in the series
Lu_(S−x)Yb_(z)Ir⁴Si¹⁰. Our observations indicate a decrease of both
T_(CDW) and T_(C) with the increase of Yb content, with the evidence of
a Kondo-like response below the CDW transition at low temperatures.
Thus, one has a unique opportunity to study the Kondo effect in a CDW
lattice in this system.

pacs: 71.45.Lr, 74.25.Bt, 74.25.Fy, 74.25.Ha Rare earth ternary
silicides of the type R₅Ir⁴Si¹⁰, which adopt tetragonal structure, have
led to a large number of studies due to their unusual ground states.[1,
2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12] Even though the crystal structure
does not have any explicit low dimensional features, many members of
this family exhibit coexistence of charge-density-wave ordering (CDW)
with superconductivity[4, 5] (SC) or antiferromagnetism (AFM) depending
on the nature of the rare earth ion.[2, 8, 6, 7] Recently, it has been
established that the Kondo lattice compound Yb_(z)Ir⁴Si¹⁰ (Sc₅Co₄Si¹⁰
structure, P4/mbm) exhibits possible CDW below 48 K, with
antiferromagnetic ordering of Yb³⁺ moments below 2.3 and 1.1 K,
respectively.[8] Prior to the above result, investigations[5] revealed
the coexistence of CDW transition (T_(CDW)=83 K) with superconductivity
(T_(CDW)=3.9 K) in Lu₃Ir⁴Si¹⁰, and coexistence of AFM with CDW in
Er₃Ir⁴Si¹⁰ (Ref. [13]) has been stated in an earlier study[2, 3] that
the series of R₅Ir⁴Si¹⁰ compounds offers a new and extremely convenient
paradigm with which to study strongly coupled CDW and coexisting
superconductivity or magnetism.[6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12] Unlike in the
established conventional CDW compounds, Fermi surface studies in
R₅Ir⁴Si¹⁰ are not successful. However, the presence of a CDW gap
seen[13] in Lu₈Rh₅Si¹⁰ via optical conductivity measurements and the
observation of nonlinear transport in incommensurate Er₃Ir⁴Si¹⁰ (Ref.
[14]) strongly suggest the presence of CDW in R₅Ir⁴Si¹⁰ series.

It is well known that a small amount of disorder suppresses the CDW with
the concomitant increase of the SC transition temperature.[9] At the
same time, it is also well established that the Kondo effect affects the
superconductivity. In order to understand single ion Kondo behavior in
superconducting CDW materials, we have investigated the effect of the
influence of Yb substitution for Lu in the polycrystalline samples of
the series Lu_(S−x)Yb_(z)Ir⁴Si¹⁰. The series were prepared by first
making Lu₃Ir⁴Si¹⁰ in an arc furnace. The constituent elements (Lu, Yb,
and Ir: 99.9

Figure 1: (Color online) The crystal structure of R₅Ir⁴Si¹⁰ which
consists of 2 f.u. with 38 atoms in the unit cell. The unit cell has
three types of R atoms with position symmetry 2a, 4h, and 4h three types
of Si atoms with position symmetry 4g, 8i, and 8j; and one type of Ir
atom with position symmetry 8i. The R1 site (2a symmetry) atoms can be
visualized to be forming linear chains along the c axis.

The Ir and Si atoms form planar nets of pentagons and hexagons which are
stacked parallel to the basal plane and connected along the c axis via
Ir-Si-Ir zigzag chains. The pentagon and hexagon layers are separated by
layers of R. The distances between Ir and Si as well that of Ir and Ir
are short, indicating strong covalent interaction. Preliminary band
structure studies suggest that zigzag chains and linear chains (formed
by rare earth atoms occupying R1 sites with position symmetry 2a)
probably play a crucial role in the formation of the CDW state in these
compounds. Figure 2 shows the typical temperature vs resistivity [ρ(T)]
dependence of Lu_(5 − x)Yb_(x)Ir₄Si₁₀ samples with x=0 and x=0.07. The
sample with x=0 displays the CDW transition below 83 K and
superconductivity at 3.9 K, which are in agreement with earlier data.[1]
In the case x=0.07, one observes the presence of the CDW and
superconductivity at lower temperatures compared to those of the x=0
sample. The resistivities of other Yb substituted samples have similar
temperature dependence as the x=0.07 sample, with T_(CDW) and T_(C)
decreasing with increase of x in Lu_(5 − x)Yb_(x)Ir₄Si₁₀. In the case of
x=0.07, both CDW and SC are decreased (T_(CDW) from 83 to 69 K, and
T_(C) from 3.9 to 1.5 K). Though the amount of substitution is
significant (>1 at.

The temperature dependence of the susceptibility (shown in Fig. 4)
exhibits a modified Curie-Weiss dependence [χ(T)=χ₀+C/(T+θ_(p))], with
μ_(eff)=4.52μ_(B) which is close to the free ion value of the Yb³⁺
moment. The value of the Curie-Weiss temperature (θ_(p)) is found to be
20 K, which is much smaller than the value (θ_(p)≈61 K) reported for the

Figure 3: The low temperature resistivity [ρ(T)] dependence of
Lu_(5 − x)Yb_(x)Ir₄Si₁₀ samples with x=0.07 at zero applied magnetic
field (Y1 axis, right hand side) and the same sample at 2 T (Y axis,
left hand side) are shown. The superconductivity at 1.5 K in the absence
of field is quenched at 2 T, and the Kondo-like behavior is evident. The
solid line in the ρ(T) data for 2 T is a fit to the equation described
in the text. The line connecting the superconducting transition to the
right is a guide for the eye.

Figure 2: The temperature vs resistivity [ρ(T)] dependence of
Lu_(5 − x)Yb_(x)Ir₄Si₁₀ samples with x=0 and x=0.07. The CDW and SC
transitions are shown. Presence of possible Kondo-like behavior for
x=0.07 is also indicated.

pure Yb₅Ir₄Si₁₀-[8]. The reason for this discrepancy could be related to
the possibility that intersite interactions could raise the T_(K)
similar to the one observed in some of the Ce based alloys.[21] The
moderately large value of θ_(P) is frequently observed in Kondo systems.
Within the Kondo impurity picture, one can estimate the Kondo
temperature using the relation T_(K)=θ_(P)/4 as suggested in an earlier
review.[22]

The temperature dependence of the heat capacity (C_(p)) for the doped
sample Lu_(4.93)Yb_(0.07)Ir₄Si₁₀ from 1.9 to 110 K is shown in Fig.
5(c). Figures 5(a) and 5(b) display C_(p)/T vs T data at high and low
temperatures. From Fig. 5(c), one can see that the value of the C_(p)
does not change under the application of 2 T at high temperatures.
However, at low temperatures, one sees a significant change [see Fig.
5(b)]. Figure 5(a) shows the reduction in T_(CDW) as Yb is substituted
for Lu, and also we see a significantly large smearing of the CDW
transition unlike the reduction of the jump at T_(CDW) seen with the
other dopants.[9, 15, 16] Notice the jump at the T_(CDW) is also small
in Yb₅Ir₄Si₁₀.[8] which is attributed to the correlated behavior of the
Yb ion. Figure 5(c) depicts the C_(p) data from 1.9 to 110 K at ambient
and applied field of 2 T. One can clearly see the absence of any field
effect until one reaches a temperature of 6 K. Below 6 K, there is a
significant build up of the Sommerfeld coefficient γ when a magnetic
field of 2 T is applied. Even in zero field, the value of the γ is
larger (40 mJ/mol K² as compared to 23 mJ/mol K² of Lu₅Ir₄Si₁₀.[23] It
is well established that Kondo impurities contribute to the heat
capacity, which causes the upturn in C_(p) at low temperatures. One can
calculate the excess specific heat in the presence of magnetic field
since the field does not affect the C_(p) in the normal state. By
estimating the excess specific heat (after subtracting the heat capacity
due to lattice contribution) as a function of temperature at various
fields, T_(K) as function of x in Lu_(5 − x)Yb_(x)Ir₄Si₁₀ is listed in
Table 1 using the models.[24, 25] The estimated values of T_(K) from
three measurements are in good agreement, which is consistent with our
assumption of Kondo effect in Lu_(5 − x)Yb_(x)Ir₄Si₁₀. As emphasized
before, both T_(CDW) and T_(C) decrease with x in
Lu_(5 − x)Yb_(x)Ir₄Si₁₀, which is also illustrated in Table 1.

To conclude, we have shown that dilute Yb behaves like a Kondo impurity
in the Lu₅Ir₄Si₁₀ lattice, and to understand the interplay of T_(CDW),
T_(C), and T_(K), more studies spanning the entire range (x=0−5) in
Lu_(5 − x)Yb_(x)Ir₄Si₁₀ are required.

We gratefully acknowledge H. R. Naren and R. S. Sannabhatti for their
assistance in carrying out low temperature measurements reported in this
work.

  --------------------- --------- ------- ----------- ----------- ---------------
                          T_(CDW)   T_(C)   T_(K) (χ)   T_(K) (ρ)   T_(K) (C_(p))
  Concentration of Yb         (K)     (K)         (K)         (K)             (K)
  x=0.0                        83     3.9                         
  x=0.02                       78     3.0         4.7           5             4.8
  x=0.05                       73     2.0         4.8         5.5             5.0
  x=0.07                       69     1.5         5.0         5.9             5.4
  --------------------- --------- ------- ----------- ----------- ---------------

Table 1: Values of T_(CDW), T_(C), and T_(K) as function of x in
Lu_(5 − x)Yb_(x)Ir₄Si₁₀. The values of T_(K) have been estimated from
magnetic susceptibility (χ), electrical resistivity (ρ), and heat
capacity (C_(p)) studies.

Figure 4: The temperature dependence of the normal state susceptibility
[χ(T)] of Lu_(4.97)Yb_(0.03)Ir₄Si₁₀ in applied field of 2 T is shown in
the figure. High temperature data (125 K<T< 300 K) is fitted to the
Curie-Weiss expression (see text). The solid line is the fit. The inset
shows the χ(T) of the parent sample Lu₅Ir₄Si₁₀, which displays a
diamagnetic transition due to the CDW transition.

Figure 5: The temperature dependence of the heat capacity of
Lu_(5 − x)Yb_(x)Ir₄Si₁₀ from 2 to 100 K in fields of 0 and 2 T. (a)
shows the high temperature data of x=0.0 and x=0.07, which illustrate
the smearing and reduction of the CDW peak with decrease of T_(CDW) as a
function of x. (b) displays the low temperature data, which show an
increase of C_(p) with magnetic field, possibly implying the presence of
Kondo effect in the Yb substituted sample.

## References

* [1] B. Becker, N. G. Patil, S. Ramakrishnan, A. A. Menovsky, G. J.
Nieuwenhuys, J. A. Mydosh, M. Koghi, and K. Iwasa, Phys. Rev. B **59**,
7266 (1999). * [2] F. Galli, S. Ramakrishnan, T. Tanugichi, G. J.
Nieuwenhuys, J. A. Mydosh, S. Geupel, J. Ludecke, and S. Van Smaalen,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **85**, 158 (2000). * [3] F. Galli, R. Feyerherm, R. W.
A. Hendrikx, S. Ramakrishnan, G. J. Nieuwenhuys, and J. A. Mydosh, Phys.
Rev. B **62**, 13840 (2000). * [4] M. Giffhorn, B. Becker, A. A.
Menovsky, J. A. Mydosh, G. J. Nieuwenhuys, S. Ramakrishnan, S. Schuber,
and A. Eichler, High Press. Res. **18**, 159 (2000). * [5] J. B. Betts,
A. Migliori, G. S. Boebinger, F. Galli, J. A. Mydosh, and H. Ledbetter,
Phys. Rev. B **66**, 060106(R) (2002). * [6] F. Galli, R. Feyerherm, R.
W. A. Hendrikx, E. Dudzik, G. J. Nieuwenhuys, S. Ramakrishnan, S. D.
Brown, S. van Smaalen, and J. A. Mydosh, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter
**14**, 5067 (2002). * [7] S. van Smaalen, M. Shaz, L. Palatinus, P.
Daniels, F. Galli, G. J. Nieuwenhuys, and J. A. Mydosh, Phys. Rev. B
**69**, 014103 (2004). * [8] Z. Hossain, M. Schmidt, W. Schnelle, H. S.
Jeevan, C. Geibel, S. Ramakrishnan, J. A. Mydosh, and Y. Grin, Phys.
Rev. B **71**, 060406 (2005). * [9] Y. Singh, R. Nirmala, S.
Ramakrishnan, and S. K. Malik, Phys. Rev. B **72**, 045106 (2005). *
[10] S. Ramakrishnan, Curr. Sci. **88**, 96 (2005). * [11] Y.-K. Kuo, C.
S. Lue, F. H. Hsu, H. H. Li, and H. D. Yang, Phys. Rev. B **64**, 125124
(2001). * [12] C. S. Lue, Y.-K. Kuo, F. H. Hsu, H. H. Li, H. D. Yang, P.
S. Fodor, and L. E. Wenger, Phys. Rev. B **66**, 033101 (2002). * [13]
H. L. Liu, G. S. Wu, J. L. Her, and H. D. Yang, Phys. Rev. B **72**,
205102 (2005). * [14] S. Ramakrishnan and J. A. Mydosh, J. Magn. Magn.
Mater. **310**, 207 (2007). * [15] Y.-K. Kuo, F. H. Hsu, H. H. Li, H. L.
Huang, C. W. Huang, C. S. Lue, and H. D. Yang, Phys. Rev. B **67**,
195101 (2003). * [16] H. D. Yang, P. Klavins, and R. N. Shelton, Phys.
Rev. B **43**, 7681 (1991). * [17] M. B. Maple, Appl. Phys. **9**, 179
(1976), and Refs. 33 and 39 therein. * [18] E. Mueller-Hartman and J.
Zittartz, Phys. Rev. Lett. **26**, 428 (1971). * [19] G. W. Webb, Z.
Fisk, J. J. Engelhardt, and S. D. Bader, Phys. Rev. B **15**, 2624
(1977). * [20] L. R. Testardi, Rev. Mod. Phys. **47**, 637 (1975). *
[21] B. Coqblin, M. A. Gusmao, J. R. Inglesias, C. Lacroix, S. G.
Magalhaes, A. Ruppenthal, A. A. Schmidt, and Alba Theumann, in _Electron
Correlations and Materials Properties 2_, edited by Antonios Gonis,
Nicholas Kioussis, and Mikael Ciftan (Kluwer Academic, Dordrecht, 2003),
p. 159. * [22] G. Gruener and A. Zawadowsky, Rep. Prog. Phys. **37**,
1497 (1974). * [23] R. N. Shelton, L. S. Hausermann-Berg, P. Klavins, H.
D. Yang, M. S. Anderson, and C. A. Swenson, Phys. Rev. B **34**, 4590
(1986). * [24] V. T. Rajan, J. H. Lowenstein, and N. Andrei, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **49**, 497 (1982). * [25] P. D. Sacramento and P. Schlottmann,
Phys. Rev. B **40**, 431 (1989).
