# Superconductivity in the intermetallic pnictide compound
Ca₁₁Bi_(10 − x)

Mihai Sturza

Fei Han

Christos D. Malliakas

Duck Young Chung

Helmut Claus

Mercouri G. Kanatzidis

###### Abstract

The pnictide phase Ca₁₁Bi_(10 − x) shows bulk superconductivity around
2.2 K in temperature-dependent resistivity and magnetic susceptibility
data. The compound is a p-type metal with low carrier density of 6.5 x
10¹⁸ cm⁻³. Ca₁₁Bi_(10 − x)(x = 0.12) was synthesized by the reaction of
Ca metal with excess Bi and crystallizes in the tetragonal space group
_14/mmm_ with a = 12.2842(6) A and c = 17.866(4) A. The structure of
Ca₁₁Bi₁₀ contains three discrete units: isolated Bi atoms, dumbbells,
and square planar rings of Bi surrounded by Ca atoms. Vacancies were
found in the isolated Bi(1) atoms and square planar Bi₄ units of the
structure. The Ca₁₁Bi₁₀ system is the first member found to exhibit
superconductivity among the intermetallic class M₁₁X₁₀ (M= Ca, Sr, Ba;
X= Bi, Sb), suggesting that a broader family of Bi or Sb containing
superconductors may exist. Electronic structure density functional
theory calculations confirm the metallic nature of the compound with
several steep Bi p-orbital bands crossing the Fermi level as well as a
single flat band reaching the Fermi level upon the introduction of Bi
vacancies.

2014 89 89 054512 2014 89 054512 1

## 1 Introduction

Discovered in 1911, superconductivity has a wide range of applications,
from energy distribution to medical diagnostics, but its origin remains
enigmatic. The copper oxide family, including materials such as
YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − x) (YBCO) and La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄ (LSCO), initiated
vigorous activities in the physics of high-temperature superconductivity
[1, 2, 3, 4] and ultimately a realization of their applications in a
variety of fields. The recent discovery of the unconventional iron-based
superconductors [5] has attracted great attention and triggered
extensive research for the discovery of new superconductors. So far,
iron-based superconductors have been extended to a large variety of
materials including several families such as the so-called "1111"-phase
(LμFeAsO, AeFeAsF; Ln = rare earth metals, Ae = alkaline earth metals)
[5, 6, 7], "122"-phase (AeFe₂As₂) [8, 9, 10, 11], "111"-phase (LiFeAs,
NaFeAs) [12, 13, 14], "111"-phase (FeSe) [15], and A_(x)Fe_(2 − y)Se₂
phase (A= alkali metals) [16, 17, 18, 19] etc. Interestingly, all these
materials share two common features: (a) an infinitely extended square
sublattice featuring anti-PbO-type tetrahedral metal centers, for
example, [Fe₂As₂], [Fe₂Se₂], and (b) mixed valency in the transition
metal. Superconductivity was also observed in compounds with iron
completely substituted by other 3d, 4d, or 5d transition metals [20, 21,
22, 23, 24]. After several 3d, 4d, and 5d transition metal-phosphide,
arsenide, antimonide, or chalcogenide superconductors were discovered,
attention is now focusing on bismuthides and related pnictide systems.
Bismuth has been a part of various superconducting compounds, such as
Bi-based high-T_(c) cuprates [25], Ba_(0.6)K_(0.4)BiO₃ perovskite [2],
NiBi₃[26, 27], LaPd_(1 − x)Bi₂[28], Bi₄O₄S₃[29, 30, 31],
LaO_(1 − x)F_(x)BiS₂[32, 33], and CsBi₄Te₆[34]. Superconducting main
group element-rich alkaline earth intermetallic compounds, such as SrSn₃
(T_(c) = 5.4 K) [35], SrSn₄ (T_(c) = 4.4 K) [36, 37, 38], BaSn₃
(T_(c) = 2.4 K) [39], BaSn₅ (T_(c) = 4.4 K) [40, 41], and Sr₂Bi₃
(T_(c) = 4.4 K) [42, 43], have been a focus of research owing to the
interesting dependence of their critical temperature T_(c) on their
valence electron counts.

In this paper, we report on the synthesis, crystal structure, and
magnetic and electrical properties of a new superconductor
Ca₁₁Bi_(10 − x), with T_(c) ∼ 2.2 K. The extended three-dimensional (3D)
Bi-Bi interactions are responsible for the metallic behavior observed
above T_(c). Electronic band structure calculations at the density
functional theory (DFT) level confirm the metallic character of the
material and point toward a possible steep band/flat band scenario
occurring in this system [44, 45, 46]. Defects in the form of vacancies
on the Bi sites were found using single-crystal x-ray analysis. Although
the structure of this compound was first reported in 1976 [47], the
presence of vacancies in Bi sites and the electrical and magnetic
properties has not been investigated.

### Experimental details

Single crystals of Ca₁₁Bi_(10 − x) were grown by the self-flux method
using excess Bi. All chemicals were handled in a dry argon glove box.
The mixture of Ca/Bi with 1:5 ratio was loaded in a niobium tube and
welded under an argon atmosphere. The tube was then placed in a fused
silica tube and flame-sealed under a pressure of <10⁻⁴ mbar. The mixture
was heated to 1373 K for 10 hours, then kept there for 100 hours, and
subsequently cooled slowly to 773 K at a rate of 10 K/h. At this
temperature the molten Bi metal was filtered by centrifugation. The
obtained polyhedral crystals [Fig. 1(a)] exhibit shiny metallic silver
color, which turns to black under ambient condition. Due to their air
and moisture sensitivity, the crystals used for characterization were
handled in an Ar-filled glove box.

A small polyhedral single crystal with dimensions 0.0374×0.0338 × 0.0119
mm³ was mounted on the tip of glass fiber for structure determination by
single-crystal x-ray diffraction. The data collection was performed at
room temperature under nitrogen flow. Intensity data were collected
using ω scans on a STOE imaging plate diffraction system (IPDS-II) using
graphite-monochromatized Mo-Kα radiation (λ = 0.71073 A) operating at 50
kV and 40 mA with a 34-cm diameter imaging plate. Individual frames were
collected with a 10 min exposure time and a 1deg ω rotation. X-AREA,
X-RED, and X-SHAPE [48] software packages were used for data collection,
integration, and analytical absorption corrections, respectively. SHELXL
[49] and JANA2006 [50] software packages were used to solve and refine
the structure.

Semiquantitative microprobe analysis of several crystals was performed
with a Hitachi S-4700-II scanning electron microscope equipped with a
Hitachi S-4700-II energy dispersive spectroscopic (EDS) with a thin
window detector. Data were acquired by applying 15 kV of accelerating
voltage. Analysis on several crystals indicates an average composition
of Ca_(1.15(4))Bi_(1.02(6)), which is in good agreement with the
composition obtained from single-crystal x-ray diffraction.

Variable temperature four-probe resistivity and Hall effect measurements
on single-crystal samples of Ca₁₁Bi₁₀ were carried out with a Quantum
Design Physical Property Measurement System. The temperature range was
1.8-300 K for the resistivity measurement. The Hall effect at 300 K was
measured by reversing H = ± 9 T. The standard four-probe technique with
50-μm gold wires, employing silver paste contacts cured at room
temperature, was used for resistivity measurements, with the electric
current applied in an arbitrary direction. The mounting of electrical
contacts on the samples was performed in an Ar-filled glove box due to
the air and moisture sensitivity of Ca₁₁Bi₁₀. A home-built low-field
quantum interference device (SQUID) magnetometer was used to measure the
direct current magnetization [51].

Electronic structure calculations were performed on the fully
stoichiometric Ca₁₁Bi₁₀ model using the self-consistent full-potential
linearized augmented plane wave method (LAPW) [52] within DFT [53, 54]
using the generalized gradient approximation of Perdew, Burke, and
Ernzerhof [55] for the exchange and correlation potential. The values of
the atomic radii were taken to be 2.5 a.u. for all atoms, where a.u. is
the atomic unit (0.529 A). Convergence of the self-consistent

Figure 1: (Color online) (a) Scanning electron microscope (SEM) image of
a typical Ca₄₁Bi_(10 − x) crystal (scale bar: 200 μm). (b) Perspective
view of anionic bismuth sublattice in Ca₄₁Bi_(10 − x) structure with
bismuth units (tetramers and dimers) connected with dotted lines making
an open 3D framework. Bi(1) atoms are blue, Bi(2) atoms are gray, Bi(3)
atoms are orange, Bi(4) atoms are red, and Bi(5) atoms are pink. (c) The
anionic bismuth sublattice along the c axis showing the isolated Bi
atoms, square planar rings of Bi₄, and dumbbells of Bi₂ units. (d)
Coordination environment of Bi(3) atoms.

iterations was performed for 240 k points inside the irreducible
Brillouin zone to within 0.0001 Ry, with a cutoff of −6.0 Ry between the
valence and the core states. Scalar relativistic corrections were
included, and a spin-orbit interaction was incorporated using a second
variational procedure [56]. The calculations were performed using the
WIEN2k program [57].

## II Results and Discussion

### Crystal structure

The compound Ca₁₁Bi₁₀ belongs to the M₁₁X₁₀ family (M = Ca, Sr, Ba; X =
Bi, Sb) [47, 58, 59, 60], which adopts the Ho₁₁Ge₁₀-type structure [61].
Ca₁₁Bi₁₀ crystallizes in the tetragonal space group I4_mmm_ with a =
12.2842(6) A and c = 17.866(4) A. Our single-crystal x-ray diffraction
refinement led to excellent agreement for $R_{\rm obs}$ = 3.28

### Resistivity, magnetic susceptibility, Hall effect, and upper
critical field

The temperature dependence of magnetic susceptibility and resistivity
data for Ca₁₁Bi_(10 − x) are presented in Figs. 2 and 3(a). In Fig.
2(a), the temperature dependence of magnetic susceptibility shows a
strong demagnetization effect. Around 90

The effective carrier concentration in Ca₁₁Bi_(10 − x) was measured by
the Hall effect at room temperature. Figure 3(b) shows the magnetic
field dependence of Hall resistivity ρ_(xy) at 300 K. In the experiment,
ρ_(xy) was taken as ρ_(xy) = [ρ(+H) −ρ(−H)]/2 at each point to eliminate
the effect of possible misalignment of Hall electrodes. The positive
slope of Hall resistivity ρ_(xy) and the resulting Hall coefficient
R_(H) = 1.51(3) × 10⁻⁸ m³/C shows that hole-type charge carriers
dominate the charge transport at 300 K. Based on the equation R_(H) =
1/_ne_, we obtain the relatively low hole concentration of n = 6.5(3) ×
10¹⁸ cm⁻³.

To obtain the critical magnetic field of Ca₁₁Bi_(10 − x), we carried out
the resistivity measurements at different applied magnetic fields (Fig.
4). The temperature dependence of resistivity for Ca₁₁Bi_(10 − x) at
various magnetic fields shows systematic suppression of superconducting
transition at relatively low field. We use the criterion of 90

H_(c2)(T) = H_(c2)(0) × (1 − t²)/(1 + t²),
(1)

Figure 4: (Color online) Resistivity for Ca₁₁Bi_(10 − x) near
superconducting transition temperatures at various magnetic fields. The
inset depicts critical magnetic fields as a function of temperature. The
red solid line indicates the fitting based on the Ginzburg-Landau (GL)
theory. The GL model yields an upper critical field of ∼172 Oe.

Figure 5: (Color online) (a) Electronic band structure of stoichiometric
Ca₁₁Bi₁₀ near the Fermi level showing metallic character. (b) Expanded
view of the band structure near the Fermi level. The dotted line is an
estimate of the Fermi level (E_(F)^(′)) after Bi vacancies are
introduced in Ca₁₁Bi_(9.88). (c) Density of states of stoichiometric
Ca₁₁Bi₁₀ near the Fermi level.

where t= is the reduced temperature (T/T_(c)), and H_(c2)(0) is the
critical magnetic field at zero temperature. The measured data in the
inset of Fig. 4 were well fitted using Eq. (1) (red solid line). The
zero-temperature critical magnetic field was determined to be ∼172 Oe
from the fit. This small value of H_(c2)(0) can be compared with other
intermetallic superconductors compounds with low T_(c) such as BaBi₃
[T_(c) = 5.69 K, H_(c2)(0) = 740 Oe] [65], SrBi₃ [T_(c) = 5.62 K,
H_(c2)(0) = 530 Oe] [66], PbBi₂ [T_(c) = 1.21 K, H_(c2)(0) = 10 Oe]
[65], and Tl₃Bi₅ [T_(c) = 0.75-1 K, H_(c2)(0) = 740 Oe] [65].

### Band structure calculations

We performed DFT electronic band structure calculations for the fully
stoichiometric Ca₁₁Bi₁₀. The calculations suggest that Ca₁₁Bi₁₀ is
metallic [Fig. 5(a)]. The density of states plot [Fig. 5(b)] at the
Fermi level (E_(F)) are dominated by orbital states from Bi(5) belonging
to the square units and Bi(3) from the dumbbells. Although according to
the Zintl counting rules, the Ca₁₁Bi₁₀ phase is valence precise and
presumably semiconducting. The large overlap of extended Bi p orbitals
gives broad bands that filled the gap. The deficiency in bismuth
observed in the structural refinements would raise the E_(F) but
maintain the metallic property of the system. A careful examination of
the band structure shows multiple steep bands crossing the Fermi level
[e.g., from P-Γ, X-P, and Γ-N, see Fig. 5(b)] as well a flat band near
the X point. The flat band is a section of a band that falls into a
narrow energy window centered at E_(F), and the steep band is defined as
a section of a band crossing the Fermi level [45,67]. At this level of
E_(F), Ca₁₁Bi_(10 − x) can be considered a flat/steep band system, which
presumably can be a key feature in the electronic structure of a normal
state superconductor [44]. This flat/steep band model was illustrated in
the case of Hg [45] and MgB₂[68] superconductor compounds. A signal of
relatively strong interactions is the occurrence of flat bands near the
Fermi level of the normal state. Flat bands coexisting with steep bands
at the Fermi level are considered to be a necessary though not
sufficient condition for superconductivity to occur [46].

## III Conclusion

Ca₁₁Bi₁₀ is the first member of the intermetallic class M₁₁X₁₀ (M = Ca,
Sr, Ba; X = Bi, Sb) found to exhibit superconductivity, suggesting that
a broader family of Bi: or Sb-containing superconductors may exist in
this composition space of pnictides. We recently found that the
Ca₁₁Sb_(10 − x) [x = 0.11(2)] also show superconductivity around 1.8 K
(see Supplemental Material [69]). The resistivity data and DFT band
structure calculations for Ca₁₁Bi₁₀ compound shows metallic behavior.
The origin of bulk superconductivity around 2.2 K in Ca₁₁Bi_(10 − x) is
unclear, but Bi vacancies and the extended 3D Bi-Bi interactions may
play important roles possibly by raising the Fermi level enough to reach
the flat band at the X point, resulting in a steep band/flat band
system.

###### Acknowledgements.

This paper is supported by the US Department of Energy, Office of Basic
Energy Sciences under Contract No. DE-AC02-06CH11357. Use of the
Electron Microscopy Center for Materials Research at Argonne National
Laboratory was supported by the U.S. Department of Energy, Office of
Science, Office of Basic Energy Sciences, under Contract No.
DE-AC02-06CH11357.

## References

* [1] A. Schilling, M. Cantoni, J. D. Guo, and H. R. Ott, Nature
**363**, 56 (1993). * [2] R. J. Cava, B. Batlogg, J. J. Krajewski, R.
Farrow, L. W. Rupp, A. E. White, K. Short, W. F. Peck, and T. Kometani,
Nature **332**, 814 (1988). * [3] J. G. Bednorz and K. A. Muller, Z.
Phys. B. Condens. Matter. **64**, 189 (1986). * [4] J. Orenstein and A.
J. Millis, Science **288**, 468 (2000).

* [20] E. D. Bauer, F. Ronning, B. L. Scott, and J. D. Thompson, Phys.
Rev. B **78**, 172504 (2008). * [21] K. Kudo, Y. Nishikubo, and M.
Nohara, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **79**, 123710 (2010). * [22] D. Hirai, T.
Takayama, R. Higashinaka, H. Aruga-Katori, and H. Takagi, J. Phys. Soc.
Jpn. **78**, 023706 (2009). * [23] M. Imai, S. Emura, M. Nishio, Y.
Matsushita, S. Ibuka, N. Eguchi, F. Ishikawa, Y. Yamada, T. Muranaka,
and J. Akimitsu, Supercond. Sci. Technol. **26**, 075001 (2013). * [24]
J. R. Neilson, T. M. McQueen, A. Llobet, J. Wen, and M. R. Suchomel,
Phy. Rev. B **87**, 045124 (2013). * [25] H. Krakauer and W. E. Pickett,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **60**, 1665 (1988). * [26] Y. Fujimori, S. Kan, B.
Shinozaki, and T. Kawaguti, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **69**, 3017 (2000). *
[27] J. Kumar, A. Kumar, A. Vajpayee, B. Gahtori, D. Sharma, P. K.
Ahluwalia, S. Auluck, and V. P. S. Awana, Supercond. Sci. Technol.
**24**, 085002 (2011). * [28] F. Han, C. D. Malliakas, C. C. Stoumpos,
M. Sturza, H. Claus, D. Y. Chung, and M. G. Kanatzidis, Phys. Rev. B
**88**, 144511 (2013). * [29] Y. Mizuguchi, H. Fujihisa, Y. Gotoh, K.
Suzuki, H. Usui, K. Kuroki, S. Demura, Y. Takano, H. Izawa, and O.
Miura, Phys. Rev. B **86**, 220510(R) (2012). * [30] S. K. Singh, A.
Kumar, B. Gahtori, G. Sharma, S. Patnaik, and V. P. S. Awana, J. Am.
Chem. Soc. **134**, 16504 (2012). * [31] W. A. Phelan, D. C. Wallace, K.
E. Arpino, J. R. Neilson, K. J. Livi, C. R. Seabourne, A. J. Scott, and
T. M. McQueen, J. Am. Chem. Soc. **135**, 5372 (2013). * [32] J. Lee, M.
B. Stone, A. Huq, T. Yildirim, G. Ehlers, Y. Mizuguchi, O. Miura, Y.
Takano, K. Deguchi, S. Demura, and S. H. Lee, Phys. Rev. B **87**,
205134 (2013). * [33] Y. Mizuguchi, S. Demura, K. Deguchi, Y. Takano, H.
Fujihisa, Y. Gotoh, H. Izawa, and O. Miura, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **81**,
114725 (2012). * [34] C. D. Malliakas, D. Y. Chung, H. Claus, and M. G.
Kanatzidis, J. Am. Chem. Soc. **135**, 14540 (2013). * [35] T. F.
Fassler and S. Hoffmann, Z. Anorg. Allg. Chem. **626**, 106 (2000). *
[36] D. Marshall and Y. A. Chang, J. Less-Comm. Met. **78**, 139
(1981). * [37] S. Hoffmann and T. F. Fassler, Inorg. Chem. **42**, 8748
(2003). * [38] X. Lin, S. L. Bud’ko, G. D. Samolyuk, M. S. Torikachvili,
and P. C. Canfield, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter **23**, 455703 (2011). *
[39] T. F. Fassler and C. Kronseder, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. **36**, 2683
(1997). * [40] T. F. Fassler, S. Hoffmann, and C. Kronseder, Z. Anorg.
Allg. Chem. **627**, 2486 (2001). * [41] X. Lin, S. L. Bud’ko, and P. C.
Canfield, Philos Mag. **92**, 3006 (2012). * [42] S.-J. Kim, S. Ponou,
and T. F. Faessler, Inorg. Chem. **47**, 3594 (2008). * [43] F. Merlo
and M. L. Fornasini, Mat. Res. Bull. **29**, 149 (1994). * [44] S. Deng,
A. Simon, and J. Kohler, in _Superconductivity in Complex Systems_,
edited by K. A. Muller and A. Bussmann-Holder, 2005, Vol. 114, p. 103. *
[45] S. Deng, A. Simon, and J. Kohler, J. Sup. **17**, 227 (2004). *
[46] S. Deng, J. Kohler, and A. Simon, J. Supercond. **15**, 635
(2002). * [47] K. Deller and B. Eisemann, Z. Naturforsch. **31B**, 29
(1976). * [48] X-AREA, X-SHAPE, X-RED, STOE, and Cie GmbH (Darmstadt,
Germany 2004). * [49] G. M. Sheldrick, SHELXTL, version 5.1 (University
of Gottingen, Germany 1997). * [50] V. Petricek, M. Dusek, and L.
Palatinus, _The Crystallographic Computing System_ (Institute of
Physics, Praha, Czech Republic, 2006). * [51] K. G. Vandervoort, G.
Griffith, H. Claus, and G. W. Crabtree, Rev. Sci. Instrum. **62**, 2271
(1991). * [52] D. Singh, _Planewaves, Pseudopotentials, and the LAPW
method_ (Kluwer Academic, Boston, MA, 1994). * [53] P. Hohenberg and W.
Kohn, Phys. Rev. **136**, B864 (1964). * [54] W. Kohn and L. J. Sham,
Phys. Rev. **140**, A1133 (1965). * [55] J. P. Perdew, K. Burke, and M.
Ernzerhof, Phys. Rev. Lett. **77**, 3865 (1996). * [56] D. D. Koelling
and B. N. Harmon, J. Phys. C: Solid State Phys. **10**, 3107 (1977). *
[57] P. Blaha, K. Schwarz, G. Madsen, D. Kvasnicka, and J. Luitz
(Karlheinz Schwarz, Tech. University, Wien, Vienna, 2001). * [58] G.
Derrien, M. Tillard-Charbonnel, A. Manteghetti, L. Monconduit, and C.
Belin, J. Solid State Chem. **164**, 169 (2002). * [59] A. Rehr and S.
M. Kauzlarich, Acta Crystallogr., Sect. C: Cryst. Struct. Commun.
**50**, 1859 (1994). * [60] F. Emmerling, N. Laengin, F. Pickhard, M.
Wendorff, and C. Roehr, Z. Naturforsch. **42B**, 7 (1987). * [61] R.
Schmelczer, D. Schwarzenbach, and F. Hulliger, Z. Naturforsch. **34B**,
1213 (1979). * [62] See Supplemental Material at
http://link.aps.org/supplemental/10.1103/PhysRevB.89.054512 for Tables
S1, S2, S3, and S4 for final atomic positions, displacement parameters,
anisotropic displacement parameters, and selected bond distances and
angles for Ca₁₁Bi_(10 − x) at 293 K. * [63] E. Zintl, Angew. Chem.
**52**, 1 (1939). * [64] V. L. Ginzburg and L. D. Landau, Zh. Eksp.
Teor. Fiz. **20**, 1064 (1950). * [65] L. I. Berger and B. W. Roberts,
_CRC Handbook of Chemistry and Physics_, 78th ed. (CRC Press, Boca
Raton, FL, 1997-1998), pp. 12-71. * [66] D. A. Papaconstantopoulos, B.
M. Klein, L. L. Boyer, and J. W. D. Connolly, Phys. Rev. B **26**, 4951
(1982). * [67] S. Deng, A. Simon, and J. Kohler, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.
**37**, 640 (1998). * [68] M. Iavarone, G. Karapetrov, A. E. Koshelev,
W. K. Kwok, G. W. Crabtree, D. G. Hinks, W. N. Kang, E.-M. Choi, H. J.
Kim, H.-J. Kim, and S. I. Lee, Phys. Rev. Lett. **89**, 187002 (2002). *
[69] See Supplemental Material at
http://link.aps.org/supplemental/10.1103/PhysRevB.89.054512 for Fig. S1
showing depicted magnetic susceptibility as a function of temperature
for Ca₁₁Sb_(10 − x).
