Pseudogap of the high-temperature superconductor
La_(1.96 − x)Sr_(x)Ho_(0.04)CuO₄ as observed by neutron crystal-field
spectroscopy

Petra S. Hafliger, Andrew Podlesnyak, Kazimierz Conder, Ekaterina
Pomjakushina, and Albert Furrer

Laboratory for Neutron Scattering, ETH Zurich & PSI Villigen, CH-5232
Villigen PSI, Switzerland

Received 9 March 2006; revised manuscript received 6 July 2006;
published 15 November 2006

###### Abstract

We studied the isotope, pressure, and doping effects on the pseudogap
temperature T^(*) by neutron spectroscopic experiments of the relaxation
rate of crystal-field excitations in La_(1.96 − x)Sr_(x)Ho_(0.04)CuO₄ (x
=0.11,0.15,0.20,0.25). We found clear evidence for the opening of a
pseudogap at T^(*) > T_(c) in the whole doping range. Furthermore, the
effect of oxygen isotope substitution was found to produce an upward
shift of T^(*), whereas the application of pressure on the optimally
doped compound (x=0.15) results in a downward shift of T^(*). The
opposite effect of oxygen isotope substitution and pressure application
indicates that electron-phonon induced effects contribute to the
pseudogap formation. The temperature dependence of the relaxation data
is consistent with a gap function of predominantly d-wave symmetry.

pacs: DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.74.184520 PACS number(s): 74.62.Fj,
74.72.Dn, 76.30.Kg, 78.70.Nx + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL REVIEW B
**74**, 184520 (2006) PHYSICAL REVIEW B **74**, 184520 (2006)

## I Introduction

Superconductivity is the result of two distinct quantum phenomena,
namely pairing of the charge carriers at a characteristic temperature
T^(*) and long-range phase coherence at the superconducting transition
temperature T_(c). In conventional superconductors, these two phenomena
occur simultaneously, i.e., T^(*) = T_(c). In contrast, for
high-temperature superconductors we have T^(*) > T_(c) over a large
doping range, thus the so-called pseudogap region (T_(c) < T < T^(*)) is
clearly the most challenging part of the phase diagram. The experimental
discovery of the pseudogap region [1] gave rise to an impressive number
of models for the mechanism of high-temperature superconductivity. [2]
Consequently, experiments that produce changes of the pseudogap
temperature T^(*) are of crucial importance to discriminate between the
different pairing scenarios developed for the cuprate superconductors.
In the past, measurements of the isotope effect were essential to
establish the BCS model of classical superconductors. Likewise,
experiments searching for isotope effects on the pseudogap temperature
T^(*) may be able to discriminate between the different pairing
scenarios developed for the cuprate superconductors. X-ray-absorption
near-edge spectroscopy (XANES) experiments [3] revealed a huge oxygen
isotope effect associated with the onset of local lattice fluctuations
in underdoped La_(1.94)Sr_(0.06)CuO₄, whose characteristic temperature
T^(*) increases from 110 to 170 K upon replacing ¹⁶O by ¹⁸O. A large
oxygen isotope effect as well as a large copper isotope effect on the
pseudogap was also observed by neutron crystal-field spectroscopy for
slightly underdoped HoBa₂Cu₄O₈ with T^(*) ≈ 50 K (Ref. [4]) and
T^(*) ≈ 25 K, [5] respectively. The same technique applied to
underdoped, optimally doped, and overdoped
La_(1.96 − x)Sr_(x)Ho_(0.04)CuO₄ (Ho@LSCO) with x = 0.10, 0.15, and 0.20
yielded oxygen isotope shifts of T^(*) ≈ 20, 10, and 5 K, respectively.
[6, 7] Surprisingly, nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) and nuclear
quadrupole resonance (NQR) experiments resulted in an absence or a very
small oxygen isotope shift T^(*) in YBa₂Cu₄O₈. [8, 9] which was
attributed to the slow time scale of the order of τ^(′∞) = 10⁻⁸. [3, 4,
10] The large oxygen (and copper) isotope shifts T^(*) observed by XANES
and neutron spectroscopy experiments (which are fast techniques with a
time scale of τ^(′∞) = 10⁻¹³ s) were semiquantitatively accounted for by
models based on dynamical charge ordering, [10] phonon-induced stripe
formation, [11] and bipolaron formation associated with Jahn-Teller-like
oxygen vibrations. [12]

Oxygen isotope effects have been reported on various other quantities;
in particular, the oxygen isotope effect on the superconducting
transition temperature T_(c) was investigated in great detail. [13] It
is now well established that the doping dependence of the oxygen isotope
exponent α₀ is a generic feature of the cuprates. [14, 15, 16] In
La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄, α₀ was found to be close to the BCS value of 0.5.
[14] Also the in-plane penetration depth is affected by the oxygen
isotope substitution, as has been demonstrated by magnetization
measurements [14, 15] and by muon-spin rotation experiments. [17, 18]
Furthermore, a large isotope effect on the electron paramagnetic
resonance (EPR) linewidth was observed in manganese-doped cuprates. [19]
Angle-resolved photoemission spectroscopy (ARPES) data revealed an
oxygen isotope effect on the dispersion, [20] which can be explained in
a dynamic spin-Peierls picture, [21] where the singlet pairing of
electrons and the electron-lattice coupling mutually enhance each other.
Additionally, isotope effects on NMR/NQR parameters were observed in
YBa₂Cu₄O₈. [22, 23]

Similarly to isotope substitution, the application of pressure affects
the lattice degrees of freedom, thus it could be used as an independent
tool to confirm the experimental and theoretical findings concerning
T^(*) described above. Unfortunately, there are only a few
pressure-dependent experiments on the pseudogap temperature T^(*) in the
literature, and the results are contradicting. NQR experiments for
YBa₂Cu₄O₈ (Ref. [24]) as well as resisitivity measurements for quenched
and Ca-doped YBa₂Cu₃O₇ compounds [25] show a (continuous) decrease of
T^(*) with increasing pressure, whereas from the analysis of
resisitivity measurements for optimally doped
Hg_(0.82)Fe_(0.12)Ba₂Ca₂Cu₃O_(8 + δ) a linear increase of T^(*) with
pressure is reported. [26] Recently, neutron spectroscopy experiments
under hydrostatic pressure were performed for the optimally doped
compound Ho@La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄. [27] It was found that the pseudogap
temperature decreases from T^(*) ≈ 61 K at ambient pressure to
T^(*) ≈ 54 K for p = 1.2 GPa, i.e., ΔT^(²∞) − 7 K. The opposite effect
of pressure application (ΔT^(²) < 0) and oxygen isotope substitution
(ΔT^(²) > 0) (Refs. [6] and [7]) is in qualitative agreement with
pairing scenarios that include electron-phonon induced effects. [10, 11,
12]

In this work, we summarize the results of neutron spectroscopic
investigations of the relaxation rate of crystal-field excitations in
La_(1.96⋯5)Sr_(x)Ho_(0.04)CuO₄ in a broad doping range (0.11±x ±0.25).
Some selected results have already been published. [6, 7, 27, 28, 29] In
most high-T_(c) compounds, interaction at the rare-earth (R) ions are
situated close to the superconducting copper-oxide planes, thus the
crystal-field interaction at the rare-earth sites constitutes an ideal
probe of the local symmetry as well as the local charge distribution of
the superconducting CuO₂ planes and thereby monitors directly changes of
the carrier concentration induced by ion substitution and external
fields. In particular, the intrinsic linewidths of crystal-field
transitions are found to vary with temperature, which is essentially a
reflection of the density-of-states associated with the charge carriers
at the Fermi energy. Linewidth studies can therefore reveal information
about the opening as well as the symmetry of the energy gap.

The paper is organized as follows. In Sec. II, the basic principles of
neutron crystal-field spectroscopy are summarized. An expression for the
observed linewidth is given, and different models for the
superconducting gap function and their influences on the linewidth are
discussed. In Sec. III, we describe the experimental procedure adopted
for the present work. The obtained results are presented in Sec. IV, and
their implications for the mechanism leading to high-temperature
superconductivity are discussed in Sec. V. Some final conclusions are
given in Sec. VI.

II Neutron crystal-field spectroscopy and the influence of the nature of
the pseudogap on the relaxation rate

The energy levels of a 4f ion in a crystalline lattice are perturbed by
the electrostatic potential $V_{\rm CF}$ arising from the neighboring
charges at sites ${\bf r}_{i}$,

$$V_{\rm CF}=\sum_{i}\frac{Z_{i}e^{2}}{|{\bf r}_{i}-{\bf R}|},$$
(1)

where ${\bf R}$ is the rare-earth site. This so-called crystal-field
interaction gives rise to discrete energy levels E_(k), which can be
determined directly by inelastic neutron scattering. For a system of N
noninteracting ions, the cross section for the crystal-field transition
Γ_(i) → Γ_(k) is given in the dipole approximation by [30]

$$\frac{d^{2}\sigma}{d\Omega d(\hbar\omega)} \sim N\frac{k_{f}}{k_{i}}\exp(-2W)F^{2}(Q)\exp\!\left(-\,\frac{E_{k}}{k _{B}T}\right)\!\left|M_{ih}\right|^{2}$$
(2)
×δ(E_(k) − E_(l) ± ℏω),

M_(ih) = ⟨Γ_(k)|Ĵ_(p)|Γ_(j)⟩,

where k_(i) and k_(f) are the wave numbers of the incoming and scattered
neutrons, respectively, exp (−2W) is the Debye-Waller factor, F(Q) is
the magnetic form factor, and M_(ik) is the transition matrix element,
with Ĵ_(p) being the component of the total angular momentum operator
perpendicular to the scattering vector ${\bf Q}$. The δ function in Eq.
(2) is broadened due to the instrumental resolution on the one hand. On
the other hand, the crystal-field levels are subject to interactions
with phonons, spin fluctuations, and charge carriers, which limit their
lifetime, thus the observed crystal-field transitions exhibit line
broadening. The δ function in Eq. (2) must therefore be replaced by a
convolution of a Gaussian with a Lorentzian. These relaxation aspects
will be discussed in the following subsection.

### Relaxation rate of crystal-field transitions

In rare-earth based high-T_(c) superconductors, the excited
crystal-field levels interact with phonons, spin fluctuations, and
charge carriers, which limit the lifetime of the excitations, thus the
observed crystal-field transitions exhibit line broadening. Lovesey and
Staub [31] put forward the idea that the relaxation rate is dominated by
phonon interactions. In their calculation, they neglect all but three of
the crystal-field states, which for the case of Ho_(0.1)Y_(0.9)Ba₂Cu₃O₇
leads to an unreasonably good agreement with the experimental data. [32]
However, the inclusion of the complete set of crystal-field levels
produces a drastically different temperature dependence of the
linewidth, [32] i.e., the phonon damping picture is no longer supported.
Moreover, phonon relaxation exhibits a continuous temperature behavior
of the linewidth and cannot reproduce the steplike features observed in
several high-T_(c) cuprates at or above T_(c). [33, 34] Therefore, we
assume that the interaction with the charge carriers is by far the
dominating relaxation mechanism. [5] In the normal metallic state, the
intrinsic linewidth of a transition between the states |i⟩ and |j⟩ with
energy ℏω_(ij) = ℏω_(i) − ℏω_(j) is given by [33]

$$\Gamma_{n}^{ij}(T) = 2J_{\rm ex}^{2}\!\left[M_{ij}^{2}\coth\!\left(\frac{\hbar\omega_ {ij}}{2k_{B}T}\right)\chi^{\prime\prime}(\hbar\omega_{ij})\right.$$
(3)
$$+\sum_{n\neq i}M_{in}^{2}\frac{\chi^{\prime\prime}(\hbar\omega_{ in})}{\exp(\hbar\omega_{in}/k_{B}T)-1}$$
$$+\sum_{n\neq j}M_{nj}^{2}\frac{\chi^{\prime\prime}(\hbar\omega_{ inj})}{\exp(\hbar\omega_{inj}/k_{B}T)-1}\Bigg{]},$$

where $J_{\rm ex}$ is the exchange integral between the charge carriers
and the 4f electrons of the R³⁺ ions, M_(ij) is the transition matrix
element of the crystal-field transition |i⟩ → |j⟩, and χ^(′′) is the
imaginary part of the susceptibility summed over the Brillouin zone. The
crystal-field level scheme of Ho³⁺ in La_(1.96⋯5)Sr_(x)CuO₄ has not been
established experimentally so far. But extrapolation from the
crystal-field Hamiltonian of HoBa₂Cu₄O₈ (Ref. [35]) based on the
procedure described in Refs. [36] and [37] predicts that the first
excited level lies at 0.2 meV, well separated from the next excited
levels by about 10 meV. Indeed, the measurements on the MARI
spectrometer revealed only one inelastic peak, [29] fully in agreement
with the model calculations mentioned above. Hence we can restrict Eq.
(3) to the ground-state and the first excited level and expand it up to
first order under the assumption ℏω ≪ k_(B)T.

We want to point out that χ^(′′)(ω) is the same local susceptibility as
used in nuclear relaxation, i.e., the Brillouin zone sum of
$|A({\bf q})|^{2}\chi^{\prime\prime}({\bf q},\omega)$, where
$\chi^{\prime\prime}({\bf q},\omega)$ is the dynamic susceptibility
probed by neutron scattering and $A({\bf q})$ is a geometrical factor
that takes into account the local structure around the lanthanide ion.
For a noninteracting Fermi liquid χ^(′)(ω) = πN(E_(F))²ω, where N(E_(F))
is the density of states at the Fermi energy E_(F), and we will use this
form to calculate the normal state linewidth Γ_(n). The use of a Fermi
liquid model in the present problem is justified by ⁸⁹Y NMR
observations,³⁸ which show that the ⁸⁸Y relaxation rate is close to the
noninteracting limit in the normal state and obeys the Korringa law.
Furthermore, although $\chi^{\prime\prime}({\bf q},\omega)$ is strongly
enhanced around ${\bf q}$=(π/α, π/b) by antiferromagnetic spin
fluctuations, these are largely filtered out by $A({\bf q})$, the
${\bf q}$ dependence of which reflects that the lanthanide site is a
center of symmetry of the fluctuations.³⁹ This leads, together with the
Fermi liquid approach, to the following expression:

$$\Gamma_{n}(T)=4\pi M^{2}j_{\rm ex}^{2}N^{2}(E_{F})k_{B}T,$$
(4)

which predicts the linewidth to increase linearly with temperature
according to the well-known Korringa law⁴⁰ in the normal state. In the
superconducting state, on the other hand, the pairing of the charge
carriers creates an energy gap Δ below the superconducting transition
temperature T_(c) (or a pseudogap below a characteristic temperature
T^(*)), thus crystal-field transitions with energy ℏω<2Δ do not have
enough energy to span the gap, and consequently there is no interaction
with the charge carriers. For an isotropic gap, the intrinsic linewidth
in the superconducting state is then given by

$$\Gamma_{s}(T)=\Gamma_{n}(T){\rm exp}\biggl{(}-\frac{\Delta}{k_{B}T}\biggr{)}.$$
(5)

Below T_(c), care has to be taken with $\chi({\bf q},\omega)$, which
contains coherence factors arising from the effect on the local
susceptibility of superconducting pairing correlations.⁴¹ Such coherence
effects influence the NMR relaxation most strongly near T_(c), thus Eq.
(5) is inappropriate around T_(c) but may have some approximate validity
well below T_(c). However, in all our experiments including the
YBCO-type compounds,⁴ the observed linewidths did not exhibit any
anomalies around T_(c), but showed a continuous behavior, thus the
neglect of the coherence factors may be tolerated. This means that
Γ_(s)(T)≈ 0 for T≪T_(c), and line broadening sets in just below T_(c)
(or T^(*)) where the superconducting gap (or the pseudogap) opens.
Therefore, the corresponding gap (or pseudogap) temperature T_(c) (or
T^(*)) can be directly derived from the temperature where the linewidth
starts to deviate from the Korringa behavior.

Neutron crystal-field spectroscopy has several advantages over other
experimental techniques: it is (i) truly bulk-sensitive, (ii) fast in
order to be able to detect dynamical effects with a time scale of 10⁻¹³
s (typical of spin and lattice fluctuations), and (iii) direct in order
to reveal a distinct crossover temperature (without involving a
complicated mathematical machinery to derive T^(*) from the raw data).
This technique has already been successfully applied to other high-T_(c)
compounds.^(4, 5, 42)

### Nature of the gap function

It is widely believed that the symmetry of the superconducting order
parameter has predominantly d-wave character, and this holds also for
the pseudogap.⁴³ Therefore, the isotropic gap in Eq. (5) has to be
replaced by a d-wave gap function of the form

$$\Delta_{x^{2}-y^{2}}({\bf k}) = \Delta({\bf k})=\Delta_{0}[\cos(k_{x})-\cos(k_{y})]$$
(6)
 ⇔ Δ(ϕ) = Δ₀cos (2ϕ)
$$\phi := \arctan\biggl{(}\frac{\pi-k_{x}}{\pi-k_{x}}\biggr{)}\quad 0\leq \phi\leq\pi/2$$
$$\Delta_{0} := \max\Delta({\bf k}),\quad{\bf k}\in{\rm Fermi\ surface}.$$

Thus the calculation of Γ_(s)(T) requires an integration in the
(k_(x), k_(y)) plane,

$$\Gamma_{s}(T)=\Gamma_{n}(T)\oint_{{\bf k}_{F}}dk\ G_{k},$$

$$G_{k}=\begin{cases}1&\text{if}\ \hbar\omega>2|\Delta({\bf k})|\\ \exp\biggl{(}-\frac{\Delta({\bf k})}{k_{B}T}\biggr{)}&\text{if}\ \hbar \omega<2|\Delta({\bf k})|,\end{cases}$$
(7)

where ${\bf k}_{F}$ is the Fermi vector. This procedure has been
developed by Mesot _et al.⁴⁴_

However, slight modifications of this general behavior have been
observed. Their influences on the relaxation data are presented below
and depicted in Fig. 1.

### Magnitude of the superconducting gap Δ₀

Ido _et al.⁴⁵_ found that Δ₀ is closely related to T^(*) in both BSCCO
(Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O_(8 + δ)) and LSCO (La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄) systems, namely
T^(*)∼2Δ₀/4.3k_(B) over a large doping range. However, the size of Δ₀
has only a small influence on the relaxation rate as visualized in panel
(a) of Fig. 2.

### s-wave contribution α to the superconducting gap

A d-wave gap offers relaxation channels even at the lowest temperatures
due to the nodes at the azimuthal angle ϕ =45^(∘) in the gap function.
But an s-wave contribution α to the gap shifts these nodes, which can
readily be seen from the expression

$$\Delta_{0}({\bf k},T)=\Delta_{0}\bigl{(}(1-\alpha)[\cos(k_{x})-\cos(k_{y})]+ \alpha\bigr{)},$$
(8)

where α=1 stands, therefore, for an isotropic gap as in Eq. (5). Hence
in comparison with the linewidth data calculated for a pure d-wave gap,
a pure s-wave gap reduces the linewidth substantially at low
temperatures, see panel (b) of Fig. 2.

As long as the amplitude of the d-wave gap is larger than the s-wave
gap, there is still a node in the gap function. However, this node is
shifted to a larger angle ϕ and moreover the shape of the gap is no
longer symmetric around ϕ =45^(∘). Such a behavior has recently been
observed in untwinned YBCO[46] by angle-resolved electron tunneling.

In order to quantify the effect of an s-wave contribution on the
relaxation rate, we recall that the relaxation rate is sensitive to the
gap integrated in the reciprocal space. It is therefore helpful to
consider the integral gap quantity

$$D(\alpha)=\int_{0}^{\pi/2}|(1-\alpha){\rm cos}(2\,\phi)+\alpha|d\phi.$$
(9)

Let us define $\alpha_{\rm min}\in[\,0,1]$ as the value where D(α) has a
minimum. Consequently, the relaxation rate $\Gamma(\alpha_{\rm min})$
will then be largest. A numerical calculation yields
$\alpha_{\rm min}$=0.4 as displayed in Fig. 2. This means that up to an
s-wave contribution α=0.6, the linewidth lies, therefore, above the one
obtained for a pure d-wave as well as An example of how the _s_-wave
contribution affects the linewidth is given in Fig. 2(b), where the
total gap has been kept constant. It is obvious that an _s_-wave
contribution of 25

#### ii.2.3 Temperature exponent A of the gap function

The temperature dependence of the gap function can be described by

$$\Delta({\bf k},T)=\Delta({\bf k})\Bigg{[}1-\left(\frac{T}{T^{\prime}}\right)^{ A}\Bigg{]}.$$
(10)

From ARPES measurements on optimally doped and underdoped BSCCO [43], we
deduce A = 4 and 2, respectively. As shown in Fig. 1(c), the size of A
has an appreciable effect on the relaxation rate at higher temperatures.

#### ii.2.4 Superconducting volume fraction V

Underdoped high-_T_c compounds are inhomogeneous, i.e., there are
superconducting and nonsuperconducting regions with a superconducting
volume fraction,

$$V=\frac{v_{s}}{v_{\rm tot}}<1,$$
(11)

where v_(s) denotes the volume of the superconducting regions and
$v_{\rm tot}$ stands for the total volume. Γ(T) is then the resulting
linewidth as a function of temperature,

 ⇒ Γ(T) = Γ_(s)(T)V + Γ_(n)(T)(1 − V).
(12)

Such a phase separation, which was clearly observed, e.g., by neutron
crystal-field spectroscopy in ErBa₂Cu₃O_(x) (6 < x < 7) by Mesot _et
al._, [37, 42] has important consequences for the relaxation rate: the
relaxation rate is enhanced predominantly at low temperatures due to the
Korringa behavior of the nonsuperconducting regions as visualized in
Fig. 1(d).

#### ii.2.5 Gapless Fermi arcs

Norman _et al._ detected the existence of gapless Fermi arcs in
underdoped BSCCO [47]. Their ARPES experiments revealed that on cooling
the sample, the pseudogap opens up at different temperatures for
different points in momentum space. More specifically, the point nodes
of the _d_-wave gap function break up into disconnected arcs that grow
in size gradually from _T_c to _T_*. Since this effect was only observed
at a few selected temperatures, we assumed in our model calculation a
linear evolution of the size of the gapless arcs with temperature.
Gapless Fermi arcs open additional relaxation channels in the pseudogap
region, hence the interaction is suddenly increased for T > _T_c. This
results in a kink of the linewidth at _T_c.

#### ii.2.6 Higher harmonics of the gap function

ARPES experiments performed by Mesot _et al._[48] revealed the existence
of higher _d_-wave harmonics of the gap function in the underdoped
region of BSCCO. The gap function then has the form

$$\Delta({\bf k}) = \Delta(\phi)=\Delta_{0}[B\,\cos(2\phi)+(1-B)\cos(6\phi)],$$
(13)
0 ≤ B ≤ 1.

For underdoped BSCCO (_T_C=68 K), Mesot _et al._ found B = 0.84, which
is significantly below the value B = 1 for the optimally doped and
overdoped BSCCO [48]. Schnyder _et al._ confirmed these experimental
results in their theoretical work using a fermiology approach [49].

The cos (6ϕ) term in the Fermi surface harmonics can be shown to be
closely related to the tight-binding function
cos (2k_(x)) − cos (2k_(y)), which represents next-nearest-neighbor
interaction. In the same way, cos (2ϕ) is closely related to the
nearest-neighbor interaction. The parameter B < 1 enhances the
relaxation rate in the whole temperature range as visualized in Fig.
1(f).

#### ii.2.7 Comparison of various models

As illustrated in Fig. 2, the variation of different parameters of the
gap function influences the linewidth in a different manner.

The above presented models can be classified in three categories: (i)
models based on different features of the gap function at zero
temperature: models (a), (b), and (f) in Fig. 2; (ii) models concerning
the temperature behavior of the gap: models (c) and (e) in Fig. 2; and
(iii) model referring to special features in real space, such as phase
separation, see Fig. 2(d).

It is worth mentioning that both models (d) and (f) lead to a
significant increase of the linewidth at low temperatures. Note that in
model (d) this effect is produced by an inhomogeneity of the sample,
i.e., a real space effect, whereas in model (f) the relaxation is
enhanced due to a change in the gap function, i.e., a reciprocal space
effect.

Furthermore, the model (c) concerning temperature effects of the gap
function changes the relaxation rate predominantly at temperatures near
the closing of the pseudogap, while the low-temperature behavior remains
almost unaffected.

We will discuss in Sec. V B which models are appropriate and consistent
with our relaxation data.

## III Experiments

For the present experiments, the polycrystalline
La_(1.96 − x)Sr_(x)Ho_(0.04)Cu¹⁶O₄ samples were synthesized by
conventional solid-state reaction. A part of every ¹⁶O compound was then
subjected to ¹⁸O diffusion in order to exchange 78

The elastic neutron-scattering experiments were performed on the powder
diffractometer HRPT [51] installed at the spallation neutron source SINQ
at PSI Villigen. [52] Temperature-dependent diffraction patterns of
La_(1.81)Sr_(0.15)Ho_(0.04)Cu¹⁸O₄ were obtained at an incident neutron
wavelength of 1.9 A. The diffraction patterns taken at 15 and 100 K are
shown in Fig. 3.

The inelastic neutron-scattering experiments were performed on the
high-resolution time-of-flight spectrometer FOCUS[53] at SINQ, PSI
Villigen. FOCUS was operated at an incident wavelength of 5.75 A, which
means under identical conditions as described in Ref. [6]. The samples
were enclosed in Al cylinders mounted in a He cryostat to achieve
temperatures T≈ 1.5 K. In order to apply hydrostatic pressure, we used
an axially symmetric pressure cell made of hardened aluminum,[54] where
we inserted the sample and the pressure medium Fluorinert FC-77. We
performed a diffraction experiment with sodium chloride for the
calibration of applied pressure. Measurements were also carried out for
the empty sample container and the empty pressure cell in order to
correct the data for background effects by subtraction.

The left panel of Fig. 4 shows a typical energy spectrum of neutrons
scattered from La_(1.76)Sr_(0.20)Ho_(0.04)Cu¹⁸O₄ at T = 10 K. It is
similar to the spectra measured for the other investigated compounds.
There are strong ground-state crystal-field transitions for both the
Stokes and the anti-Stokes process at an energy transfer ℏω ≈ ± 0.2 meV.
The width of the crystal-field transitions being typically 160 μeV is
considerably broader than the instrumental resolution of 50 μeV at the
given wavelength: the enhanced width arises from local structural
distortions around the Ho³⁺ ions resulting from the doping with Sr²⁺
ions. The lines in Fig. 4 (left panel) are the result of a
least-squares-fitting procedure in which the crystal-field transitions
were described by a convolution of a temperature-independent Gaussian
function (corresponding to the residual low-temperature width) with a
temperature-dependent Lorentzian function describing the intrinsic
linewidth due to the interaction with the charge carriers. With
increasing temperature, the crystal-field transitions renormalize due to
relaxation effects: the energy ℏω decreases as shown in Fig. 5 and
simultaneously the line-widths increase. This opposite behavior of the
energy ℏω and the linewidth is nicely displayed in the right panel of
Fig. 4.

We observed that the crystal-field transition exhibits a doping
dependence: ℏω slightly increases with raising doping, see Table 1. Also
the application of pressure leads to an enhancement of ℏω up to ±0.191
meV. Table 1 also gives the residual low-temperature linewidth; we found
an increase with doping.

## IV Results

### Structural properties

The diffraction patterns taken for La_(1.81)Sr_(0.15)Ho_(0.04)Cu¹⁸O₄ at
15 and 100 K were refined by using the Rietveld method, yielding a good
agreement between the observed and the calculated intensities, see Fig.
3. Clearly both data sets correspond to the low-temperature orthorhombic
(LTO) phase (space group _Cmca_). The refined parameters are in good
agreement with the results for pure La_(1.81)Sr_(0.15)CuO₄ reported by
Radaelli _et al._,[55] which means that a content of 4

### Results for the pseudogap temperature T^(⋆)

Figure 6 shows the temperature dependence of the intrinsic linewidths
Γ=FWHM (full width at half-maximum) for
La_(1.96 − x)Sr_(x)Ho_(0.04)Cu¹⁶O₄ at different doping levels (x=0.11,
0.2, and 0.25). They all show a qualitatively similar behavior: the
linewidth is rather small at low temperatures, then it raises with
increasing slope dΓ/dT up to about 70-80 and 45−50 K for the underdoped
and overdoped doping levels,

Figure 3: (Color online) Neutron-diffraction patterns for
La_(1.81)Sr_(0.15)Ho_(0.04)Cu¹⁸O₄ at T=15 and 100 K. The experimental
data are shown by red circles, the solid line is the result of the
Rietveld refinement. The difference between the calculated and observed
patterns is given by the blue line. The bars denote the Bragg
reflections.

+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| x       | T_(     | T_(     | T^(     | T^(     | $\h     | Γ_(g)   |
|         | c)(¹⁶O) | c)(¹⁸O) | ⋆)(¹⁶O) | ⋆)(¹⁸O) | bar\ome | (meV)   |
|         | (K)     | (K)     | (K)     | (K)     | ga_{\rm |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | {CEF}}$ |         |
|         |         |         |         |         | (meV)   |         |
+:========+:=======:+:=======:+:=======:+:=======:+:=======:+:=======:+
| 0.11    | 13.9±   | 11.7±   | 82.2±   | 103.5±4 | 0.18±   | 0.158±  |
|         | 0.3     | 0.6     | 1.2     |         | 0.005   | 0.004   |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| 0.15    | 32.5±   | 30.8±   | respec  |         |         |         |
|         | 0.5     | 0.8     | tively; |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | from    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | thereon |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | the     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | slope   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | dΓ/dT   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | is      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | reduced |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | and     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | remains |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | c       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | onstant |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ac      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | cording |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | to the  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | K       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | orringa |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | law.    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | From    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | these   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | obser   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | vations |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | we can  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | imme    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | diately |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | c       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | onclude |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | that    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | the     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ps      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | eudogap |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | opens   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | at      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | approx  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | imately |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | 80 and  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | 45−50 K |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | in the  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | und     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | erdoped |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | and     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ov      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | erdoped |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | region, |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | respec  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | tively. |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | The     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | com     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | parison |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | to the  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | raw     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | li      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | newidth |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | data    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | taken   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | for the |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ¹⁸O     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | c       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ompound |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | also    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | s       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | uggests |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | a       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | p       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ositive |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | oxygen  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | isotope |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | effect  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | on the  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ps      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | eudogap |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | temp    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | erature |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | T^(*),  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | since   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | the     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | t       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | urnover |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | into    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | the     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | K       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | orringa |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | regime  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | seems   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | to      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | occur   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | for the |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ¹⁸O     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | data at |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | a       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | higher  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | temp    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | erature |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | than    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | for the |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ¹⁶O     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | data.   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | Both    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | T^(*)   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | and     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ΔT^(*)  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | d       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ecrease |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | with    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | inc     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | reasing |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | doping. |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | Similar |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | data    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | were    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | o       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | btained |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | for     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | La_     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | (1.81)S |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | r_(0.15 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | )Ho_(0. |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | 04)CuO₄ |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | under   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | pr      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | essure, |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | see     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | Fig. 7. |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | The     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | appl    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ication |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | of      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | hydr    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ostatic |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | p       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ressure |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | s       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | lightly |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | lowers  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | T^(*),  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | as can  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | be seen |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | in Fig. |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | 7.      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | H       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | owever, |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | due to  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | the     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | limited |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | number  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | of      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | li      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | newidth |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | data,   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | the     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | quant   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | itative |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ass     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | essment |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | of the  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ps      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | eudogap |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | temp    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | erature |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | T^(*)   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | needs   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | some    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | more    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | d       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | etailed |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | conside |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | rations |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | of the  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | li      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | newidth |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | in the  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | s       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | upercon |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ducting |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | state   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | as well |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | as in   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | the     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ps      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | eudogap |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | state.  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | We      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | follow  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | the     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | pr      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ocedure |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | de      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | scribed |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | in Ref. |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | [28]    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | and     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | o       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | utlined |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | below.  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | In our  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | fitting |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | pr      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ocedure |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | we      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | d       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | escribe |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | the     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | li      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | newidth |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | below   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | T^(*)   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | by a    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | d-wave  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | gap     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | f       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | unction |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ac      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | cording |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | to Eqs. |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | (6) and |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | (8).    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | Above   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | T^(*),  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | the     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | li      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | newidth |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | is      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | g       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | overned |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | by Eq.  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | (4).    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | The     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | indepe  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ndently |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | adj     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ustable |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | par     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ameters |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | of the  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | least-s |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | quares- |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | fitting |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | pr      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ocedure |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | are     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | then    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | T^(*),  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | Δ₀, and |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | the     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | slope   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | dΓ/dT   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | of the  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | K       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | orringa |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | line.   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | The     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | results |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | of the  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | fitting |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | pro     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | cedures |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | are     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | shown   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | by      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | solid   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | lines   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | in      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | Figs. 6 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | and 7.  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | We find |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | a       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | d       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ecrease |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | of      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | T^(*)   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | from    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | 8       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | 2.2±1.2 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | to      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | 4       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | 9.2±0.7 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | K down  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | to      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | 4       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | 6.5±0.5 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | K for   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | x=0.11, |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | 0.2,    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | and     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | 0.25,   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | respec  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | tively. |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | The     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | op      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | timally |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | doped   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | sample  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | (x      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | =0.15)  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | has     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | already |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | been    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | inves   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | tigated |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | earli   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | er${}^{ |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | \rm B}$ |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | and     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | T^(*)   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | turned  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | out to  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | be      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | 6       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | 1.0±0.5 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | K,      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | which   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | co      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | incides |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | with    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | the     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | charge  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | o       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | rdering |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | tempera |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ture.⁵⁶ |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | The     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | oxygen  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | isotope |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | subs    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | tituted |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | samples |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | show    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | the     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | same    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | b       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ehavior |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | except  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | that    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | T^(*)   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | is      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | systema |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | tically |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | higher. |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | The     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | isotope |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | effect  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ΔT^(*)  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | is most |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | pro     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | nounced |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | at the  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | lowest  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | doping  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | level   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | where   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | the     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ratio   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ΔT^     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | (*)/T^( |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | *)(¹⁶O) |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | equals  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | 26      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | Figure  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | 7       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | illu    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | strates |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | the     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | rel     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | axation |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | data    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | taken   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | for     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | La_     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | (1.81)S |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | r_(0.15 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | )Ho_(0. |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | 04)CuO₄ |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | at      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ambient |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | p       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ressure |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | and at  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | 0.8 and |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | 1.2     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | GPa.    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | The     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | pr      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | essure- |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | induced |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | shift   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | of the  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ps      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | eudogap |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | temp    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | erature |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | in      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | op      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | timally |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | doped   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | LSCO    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | turned  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | out to  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | be      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ΔT^(*)  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | =(−5.2  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |  ± 2.8) |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | and     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | (−6.9   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |  ± 2.8) |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | K at    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | p=0.8   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | and 1.2 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | GPa,    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | respec  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | tively. |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | From    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | these   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | results |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | we      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | derive  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | the     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | p       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ressure |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | effect  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | on      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | T^(*)   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | to be   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ∂       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | T^(*)/∂ |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | p=(−5.9 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |  ± 1.6) |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | K/GPa.  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | Our     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | result  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | is in   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | rea     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | sonable |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ag      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | reement |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | with    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | dT^(*)  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | /dp≈−10 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | K/GPa   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | det     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ermined |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | for     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | s       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | lightly |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | und     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | erdoped |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | YB      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | a₂Cu₄O₈ |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | in NQR  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | m       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | easurem |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ents.²⁴ |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | We can  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | def     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | initely |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | rule    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | out an  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | i       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ncrease |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | of      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | T^(*)   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | with    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | pr      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | essure, |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | as has  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | been    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | r       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | eported |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | for     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | op      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | timally |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | doped   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | H       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | g_(0.82 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | )Re_(0. |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | 12)Ba₂C |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | a₂Cu₃O_ |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | (8 + δ) |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | from    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | the     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | a       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | nalysis |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | of      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | resi    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | stivity |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | m       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | easurem |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ents.²⁶ |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ## V V. |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | Dis     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | cussion |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ### A.  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | Crysta  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | l-field |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | exci    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | tations |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | in      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | La_(    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | 1.96 −  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | x)Sr_(x |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | )Ho_(0. |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | 04)CuO₄ |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | So far  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | the     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | crysta  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | l-field |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | inte    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | raction |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | of Ho³⁺ |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | in      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | La_(2   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | − x)Sr_ |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | (x)CuO₄ |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | has not |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | been    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | esta    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | blished |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | e       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | xperime |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ntally. |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | The     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | refore, |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | we      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | derived |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | the     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | crysta  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | l-field |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | par     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ameters |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | by      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | extrap  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | olation |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | from    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | those   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | of      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | HoB     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | a₂Cu₃O₇ |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | (Ref.   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | [57])   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | based   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | on the  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | pr      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ocedure |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | de      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | scribed |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | in Ref. |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | [36]    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | and     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | using   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | the     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | str     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | uctural |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | par     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ameters |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | for     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | HoB     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | a₂Cu₃O₇ |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | (Ref.   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | [58])   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | and     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | La      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | _(2 − x |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | )Sr_(x) |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | CuO₄.⁵⁵ |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | This    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | extrap  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | olation |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | pr      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ocedure |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | p       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | redicts |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | the     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | first-  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | excited |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | crysta  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | l-field |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | level   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | to lie  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | at 0.25 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | meV,    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | se      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | parated |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | from    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | the     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | next    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | excited |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | levels  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | by      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | about   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | 10 meV. |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | The     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | tra     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | nsition |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | matrix  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | e       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | lements |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | of the  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | latter  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | are at  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | least   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | an      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | order   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | of      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ma      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | gnitude |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | smaller |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | Figure  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | 4:      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | (Color) |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | Left    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | panel:  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | Energy  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | s       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | pectrum |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | of      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | n       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | eutrons |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | sc      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | attered |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | from    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | La_(1   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | .76)Sr_ |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | (0.20)H |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | o_(0.04 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | )Cu¹⁸O₄ |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | at T=   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | 10 K.   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | The     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | solid   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | line is |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | a fit   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | to the  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | data,   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | which   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | include |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | the     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | rel     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | axation |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | as      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | de      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | scribed |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | in the  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | text.   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | The     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | dotted  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | lines   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ill     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ustrate |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | the     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | subd    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ivision |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | into    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | the     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | crysta  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | l-field |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | tran    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | sitions |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | and the |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | elastic |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | line.   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | Right   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | panel:  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | In      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | tensity |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | c       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ontours |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | visu    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | alizing |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | the     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | temp    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | erature |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | r       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | enormal |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ization |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | of the  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | energy  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | spectra |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | taken   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | for     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | La_(1.  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | 76)Sr_( |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | 0.20)Ho |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | _(0.04) |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | Cu¹⁸O₄. |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | Figure  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | 5:      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | R       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | enormal |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ization |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | effects |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | of the  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | lowest  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | groun   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | d-state |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | crysta  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | l-field |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | tra     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | nsition |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | in      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | La_(1.  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | 71)Sr_( |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | 0.25)Ho |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | _(0.04) |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | Cu¹⁸O₄. |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | than    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | for the |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | lowest  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | crysta  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | l-field |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | tra     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | nsition |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | o       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | bserved |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | in the  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | present |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | work,   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | which   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | was     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | r       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ecently |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | co      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | nfirmed |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | by      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | neutron |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | spectr  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | oscopic |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ex      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | perimen |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ts.[29] |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | E       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | quation |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | (1)     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | shows   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | that    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | the     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | crysta  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | l-field |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | po      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | tential |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | is a    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | f       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | unction |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | of both |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | the     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | st      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ructure |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | and the |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | charge  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | distri  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | bution. |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | In the  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | point   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | -charge |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | approxi |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | mation, |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | the     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | crysta  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | l-field |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | par     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ameters |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | are     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | given   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | by[59]  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | $$A_{n  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | }^{m} = |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |  e|e|\l |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | angle r |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ^{n}\ra |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ngle{\s |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | um\limi |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ts_{i}Z |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | _{i}\ga |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | mma_{nm |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | }(i)}$$ |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | (14)    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | with    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | $       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | $\gamma |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | _{n}^{m |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | }(i) =  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | f_{n}^{ |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | m}\Bigg |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | {(}\fra |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | c{\thet |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | a_{i},\ |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | phi_{i} |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | }{\left |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ( \math |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | bf{r} - |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |  \mathb |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | f{R}_{i |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | }\right |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | )^{n +  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | 1}}\Big |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | g{)}.$$ |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | (15)    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | The sum |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | i runs  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | over    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | all     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | neig    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | hboring |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ions at |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | p       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | osition |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | R_(i) = |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | (       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | R_(i),  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | θ_(i),  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ϕ_(i)), |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | f_      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | (n)^(m) |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | (θ_(i), |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |  ϕ_(i)) |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | are     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | t       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | esseral |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | har     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | monics, |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ⟨r^(n)⟩ |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | is the  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | nth     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | moment  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | of the  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | radial  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | distr   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ibution |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | of the  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | 4f      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ele     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ctrons, |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | Z_(i)   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | is the  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | charge  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | of the  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ith     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ligand  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ion in  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | units   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | of the  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | e       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | lectron |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | charge  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | |e|,    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | and     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | γ_(n)   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ^(m)(i) |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | are the |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | geom    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | etrical |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | coord   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ination |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | factors |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | as      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | d       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | efined, |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | e.g.,   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | by      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | Hutchin |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | gs.[59] |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | In      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | hig     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | h-T_(c) |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | su      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | percond |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | uctors, |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | the     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | crysta  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | l-field |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | po      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | tential |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | is      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | mainly  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | det     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ermined |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | by the  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ne      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | arest-n |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | eighbor |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | oxygen  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | shell   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | (see,   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | e.g.,   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | Ref.    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | [36]),  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | thus we |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | include |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | in the  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | calc    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ulation |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | of the  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | geom    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | etrical |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | coord   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ination |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | factors |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | γ_(n)   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ^(m)(i) |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | the     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | four    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | O(1)    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ions in |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | the Cu  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | plane   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | and the |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | five    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | O(2)    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ions in |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | the     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | (La     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ,Sr,Ho) |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | plane.  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | Figure  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | 8 shows |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | the     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ev      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | olution |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | of the  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | o       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | bserved |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | groun   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | d-state |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | CEF     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | spl     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ittings |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | $E      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | _{\rm o |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | bs}(x)$ |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | whose   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | sizes   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | raise   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | conti   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | nuously |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | with    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | inc     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | reasing |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | Sr      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | doping  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | x. The  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | figure  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | also    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | shows   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | the     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | modif   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ication |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | of the  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | CEF     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | spl     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ittings |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | $E      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | _{\rm c |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | al}(x)$ |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | cal     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | culated |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | from    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | the     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | str     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | uctural |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | changes |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | on the  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | basis   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | of the  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | pr      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ocedure |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | de      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | scribed |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | above.  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | We      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | re      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | cognize |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | that    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | the     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | str     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | uctural |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | changes |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | alone   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | cannot  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | repro   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | Figure  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | 6:      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | (Color  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | online) |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | Temp    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | erature |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | dep     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | endence |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | of the  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | in      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | trinsic |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | li      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | newidth |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | (FWHM)  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | corres  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ponding |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | to the  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | lowest  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | groun   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | d-state |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | crysta  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | l-field |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | tra     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | nsition |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | in      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | La$     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | {}_{1.9 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | 6-{\rm  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | Sr}}$Sr |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ₂Ho_(0. |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | 04)CuO₄ |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | at      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | di      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | fferent |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | doping  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | levels: |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | x =     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | 0.11    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | (left   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | panel), |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | x = 0.2 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | (middle |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | panel), |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | and x = |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | 0.25    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | (right  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | panel). |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | The     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | black   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | full    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | and red |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | open    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | circles |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | cor     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | respond |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | to the  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ¹⁶O and |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ¹⁸O     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | co      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | mpound, |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | respec  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | tively. |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | The     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | full    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | and     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | dashed  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | lines   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | are the |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | results |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | of a    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | least-s |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | quares- |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | fitting |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | pr      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ocedure |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | to the  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ¹⁶O and |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ¹⁸O     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | data,   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | respec  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | tively, |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | as      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | de      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | scribed |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | in the  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | text.   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | The     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | dotted  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | lines   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | i       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ndicate |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | the     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | K       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | orringa |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | b       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ehavior |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | below   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | T^(*).  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | Figure  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | 7:      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | (Color  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | online) |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | Temp    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | erature |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | and     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | p       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ressure |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | dep     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | endence |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | of the  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | in      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | trinsic |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | li      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | newidth |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | (FWHM)  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | corres  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ponding |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | to the  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | lowest  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | groun   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | d-state |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | crysta  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | l-field |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | tra     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | nsition |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | in      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | La_(1.  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | 81)Sr_( |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | 0.15)Ho |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | _(0.04) |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | Cu¹⁶O₄. |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | The     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | full    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | lines   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | are the |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | results |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | of a    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | least-s |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | quares- |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | fitting |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | pr      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ocedure |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | as      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | de      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | scribed |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | in the  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | text.   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | The     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | dotted  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | lines   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | i       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ndicate |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | the     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | K       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | orringa |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | b       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ehavior |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | below   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | T^(*).  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | duce    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | the     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | exper   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | imental |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | data in |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | a broad |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | doping  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | range   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | (0.1    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | <_x     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | _<0.3): |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | In the  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | und     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | erdoped |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | region  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | up to x |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | = 0.15, |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | the     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | exper   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | imental |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | values  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | _E_obs  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | in      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | crease, |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | whereas |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | the     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | cal     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | culated |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | values  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | _E_calc |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | de      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | crease. |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | This    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | o       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | pposite |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | b       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ehavior |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | in      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | dicates |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | clearly |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | that    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | the     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | charge  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | t       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ransfer |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | is most |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | pr      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ominent |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | in this |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | doping  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | region, |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | i.e.,   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | add     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | itional |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | charges |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | _       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | d_(_x_) |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | are     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | tran    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | sferred |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | to the  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | oxygen  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | sites   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | due to  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | Sr      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | doping, |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ac      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | cording |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | to Eqs. |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | (14)    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | and     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | (15).   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | For     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | doping  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | levels  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | x 0.15, |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | _E_obs  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | and     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | _E_calc |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | both    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | have    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | the     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | same    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | t       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | endency |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | (they   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | are     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | e       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | nhanced |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | with    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | inc     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | reasing |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | d       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | oping). |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | The     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | charge  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | t       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ransfer |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | _       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | d_(_x_) |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | can be  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | es      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | timated |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ac      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | cording |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | to      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | $$\f    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | rac{E_{ |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | \text{o |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | bs}}(x) |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | }{E_{\t |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ext{obs |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | }}(x =  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | 0.02)}  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | = [ 1 + |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |  \delta |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | (x)\rbr |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ack\fra |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | c{E_{\t |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ext{cal |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | }}(x)}{ |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | E_{\tex |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | t{cal}} |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | (x = 0. |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | 02)}.$$ |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | The     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | re      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | sulting |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | charge  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | tr      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ansfers |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | _       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | d_(_x_) |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | are     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | listed  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | in      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | Table   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | 2. We   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | re      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | cognize |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | that    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | the     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | values  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | of      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | _       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | d_(_x_) |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | follow  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | nicely  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | the     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | _x_-de  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | pendent |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | changes |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | of the  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | slope   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | of the  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | K       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | orringa |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | line    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | _d_     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | T/_dT_, |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | which   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | is a    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | measure |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | of the  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | density |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | of      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | states  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | of the  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | charge  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ca      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | rriers. |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | Mo      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | reover, |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | a       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | similar |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | corresp |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ondence |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | follows |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | from a  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | com     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | parison |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | of the  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | values  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | of      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | _       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | d_(_x_) |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | with    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | the     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ele     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ctronic |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | specif  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ic-heat |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | coeff   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | icients |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | g (Ref. |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | [60]),  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | which   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | are     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | also    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | d       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | irectly |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | related |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | to the  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | carrier |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | d       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ensity. |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | The     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | refore, |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | we      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | c       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | onclude |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | that    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | both    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | the     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | o       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | bserved |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | crysta  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | l-field |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | spl     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ittings |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | and the |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | o       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | bserved |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | slopes  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | of the  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | K       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | orringa |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | line    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | are     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | qualit  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | atively |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | con     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | sistent |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | with    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | the     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | esta    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | blished |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | picture |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | of      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | charge  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | t       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ransfer |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | by      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | doping. |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | For Sr  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | dopings |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | up to x |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | = 0.20, |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | the     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | charge  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | t       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ransfer |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | in      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | creases |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | almost  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | li      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | nearly, |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | h       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | owever, |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | this    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | relat   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ionship |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | clearly |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | no      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | longer  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | holds   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | in the  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | heavily |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ov      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | erdoped |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | region  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | (_x_ >  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | 0.20).  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | Upon    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | appl    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ication |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | of      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | hydr    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ostatic |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | pr      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | essure, |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | the     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | crysta  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | l-field |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | tra     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | nsition |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | in      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | creases |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | from    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | _h_o =  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | (       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | +-0.185 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | +-      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | 0.003)  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | at      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ambient |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | p       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ressure |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | up to   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | _h_o =  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | (       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | +-0.191 |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | +-      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | 0.005)  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | at p =  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | 1.2     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | GPa,    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | which   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | can be  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | rep     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | roduced |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | using   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | the     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | a       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | bove-me |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ntioned |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | extrap  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | olation |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | scheme  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | based   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | on      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | str     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | uctural |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | par     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ameters |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | [55,    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | 61]     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | alone.  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | Thus    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | there   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | is no   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | charge  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | t       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ransfer |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | induced |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | by      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | pr      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | essure, |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | which   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | is in   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ag      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | reement |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | with    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | the     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | Hall    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | coef    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ficient |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | being   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | inde    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | pendent |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | of      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | pr      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | essure. |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | [62]    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | H       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | owever, |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | the     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | slope   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | of the  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | K       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | orringa |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | line    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | _d      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | _T/_dT_ |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | de      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | creases |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | s       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | lightly |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | with    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | raising |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | p       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ressure |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | from    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | (5.8 +- |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | 0.1)    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | _m_eV/K |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | at      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ambient |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | p       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ressure |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | down to |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | (5.2 +- |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | 0.1)    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | _m_eV/K |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | at 1.2  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | GPa,    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | which   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | means   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | that    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | _j_ex   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | is      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | a       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ffected |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | by      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | p       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ressure |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ac      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | cording |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | to Eq.  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | (4).    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | Let us  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | now     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | discuss |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | the     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | te      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | mperatu |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | re-inde |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | pendent |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | l       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ine-bro |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | adening |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | mech    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | anisms. |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | The     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | crysta  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | l-field |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | inte    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | raction |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | is a    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | local   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | probe   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | and     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | thereby |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | se      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | nsitive |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | to      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | local   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | str     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | uctural |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | dist    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ortions |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | around  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | the Ho  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ions.   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | The     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | neare   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | st-neig |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | hboring |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | (La,Sr  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | )-coord |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ination |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | shell   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | around  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | a Ho    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ion     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | co      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | mprises |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | a total |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | of      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | eight   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | La and  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | Sr      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ions,   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | the     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | d       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | etailed |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | distr   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ibution |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | of La   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | and Sr  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ions    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | being   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | s       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | trongly |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | de      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | pendent |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | on the  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | Sr      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | concen  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | tration |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | x.      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | The La  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | and Sr  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ionic   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | radii   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | are     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | dif     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ferent, |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | which   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | results |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | in a    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | geom    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | etrical |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | dist    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ortion; |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | in      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | fact,   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | d       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | etailed |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | str     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | uctural |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | investi |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | gations |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | pe      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | rformed |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | by      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | R       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | adaelli |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | _et     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | a       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | l._[55] |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | show    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | that    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | the     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | lattice |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | pa      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | rameter |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | a       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | de      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | creases |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | with    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | inc     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | reasing |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | Sr      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | content |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | x,      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | whereas |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | the     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | lattice |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | pa      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | rameter |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | c       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | in      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | creases |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | at the  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | same    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | time.   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | The     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | refore, |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | with    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | the     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | crystal |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | field   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | being a |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | local   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | probe,  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | the     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | po      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | sitions |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | of the  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | crysta  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | l-field |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | tra     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | nsition |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | will be |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | de      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | pendent |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | on b at |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | a given |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | doping  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | x.      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | A       |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ssuming |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | the La  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | and Sr  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ions to |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | be      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | statis  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | tically |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | distr   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ibuted, |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | the     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | fo      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | llowing |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | exp     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ression |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | gives   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | the     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | prob    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ability |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | for a   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | Ho ion  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | having  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | at      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | least   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | one Sr  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | or Ho   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ion in  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | its     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | coord   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ination |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | shell,  |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | which   |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | will    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | th      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | erefore |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | be      |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | dis     |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | torted: |         |         |         |
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | $$P(    |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | x) = \s |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | um\limi |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ts_{\be |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ta = 1} |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | ^{8}{p_ |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | {\beta} |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | (x)},$$ |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
|         | _       | _δ_(_   | _       |         |         |         |
|         | d_(_x_) | d_T/_dT | γ_(_x_) |         |         |         |
|         |         | _)(_x_) | (mJ/mol |         |         |         |
|         |         |         | K2)     |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| _0.02_  | 0       | 0       | 2       |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| _0.11_  | _0.09 ± | _0.7 ±  | 6       |         |         |         |
|         | 0.03_   | 0.7_    |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| _0.15_  | _0.14 ± | _1.9 ±  | 9       |         |         |         |
|         | 0.02_   | 0.7_    |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| _0.20_  | _0.17 ± | _2.2 ±  | _14_    |         |         |         |
|         | 0.01_   | 0.6_    |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| _0.25_  | _0.16 ± | _−0.2 ± | _12.5_  |         |         |         |
|         | 0.01_   | 0.7_    |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| _0.28_  | _0.03 ± | _−1.3 ± | _11_    |         |         |         |
|         | 0.01_   | 1.1_    |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| _0.375_ | _−0.03  | _−0.7 ± |         |         |         |         |
|         | ± 0.01_ | 1.2_    |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+

Table 2: Charge transfer _δ_(_x_) and changes of the slope of the
Korringa line derived in the present work for Ho@La2−Sr,CuO4, in
comparison with the electronic specific-heat coefficients _γ_ (Ref.
[60]). The values of _δ_(_x_) and _δ_(_d_T_′/_dT_)(_x_) are normalized
to zero for x = 0.02.

Figure 8: Ground-state crystal-field splittings observed for
Ho@La2−Sr,CuO4 (squares and solid curves). The values extrapolated from
the structural changes alone are indicated by the dashed curves.

contributions. Indeed, the low-temperature residual width is growing
with doping and it is 10

### The pseudogap in La1,96-xSr_(x)Ho0,0,0CuO₄

A summary of our results is displayed in Fig. 10. The doping dependence
of T^(*) established from our experiments shows the widely accepted
decrease with growing Sr content. In particular, our results up to
optimal doping are in good agreement with susceptibility, resistivity,
and specific-heat measurements [45] as well as NQR experiments. [56]

For the overdoped region, the situation concerning T^(*) is
controversial. For x = 0.20, our value of T^(*) 50 K is confirmed by
heat capacity [45, 63] and resistivity [45] data, whereas NQR data [56]
give a slightly reduced T^(*) 35 K. For x 0.22, however, the analysis of
heat capacity data [45] suggests the T^(*) line merges with the T_(c)
line. Furthermore, by analyzing the resistivity data, Tallon and Loram
[64] conclude that the T^(*) line intersects the T_(c) line already at x
= 1/8 and vanishes for x 0.18. This means that our value of T^(*) 45 K
for x = 0.25 could not be confirmed by any other experiments so far.

We discuss now the observed shifts of T^(*) upon oxygen isotope
substitution and pressure application on a semiquantitative level. In a
first approximation, the phonon energy _hV_ of the active phonon mode is
inversely proportional to the square root of the oxygen mass. Thus we
find Δhν = - 0.057 upon oxygen isotope substitution, whereas the
application of pressure leads to ∂(hν)/(hν)∂p = γκ = + 0.014, with γ^(∞)
2 being the Gruneisen parameter and κ = -6.8 x 10-3 GPa⁻¹ the volume
compressibility. [61] The opposite effects of isotope substitution and
pressure on the phonon energy _hV_ implicates an opposite effect on
T^(*) within models based on phonon-mediated mechanisms: [10, 11, 12]
The thermodynamic relation

$$\frac{\partial\ln[T^{*}(p)]}{\partial p}\approx\beta\frac{\partial\ln[\hbar \omega_{p}(0)]}{\partial p}=-\beta\gamma\kappa$$
(20)

with the scaling factor β yields then a pressure effect ∂T^(*)/∂p =
(-2.5 ± 0.9) K/GPa as explained in detail in Ref. [28].

These semiquantitative considerations explain the opposite effects of
isotope substitution and pressure. However, lattice fluctuations alone
cannot explain the measured pressure effect ∂T^(*)/∂p; they account for
only half of the experimentally observed decrease of T^(*). Other
contributions to ∂T^(*)/∂p arise from the pressure dependence of the
antiferromagnetic fluctuations, because pressure modifies the structure
and therefore affects the superexchange between the copper ions.
Unfortunately, there are no experimental data or theoretical predictions
available on the pressure dependence of the superexchange coupling J and
the hopping integral t being the main ingredients of the _t-J_ model,
[65, 66] which is based on antiferromagnetic spin fluctuations.

### Nature of the gap function

To our knowledge, there are no direct experimental results available
either on the nature of the gap function or on the temperature evolution
of the pseudogap in LSCO. Below, we will outline some characteristics of
the superconducting gap function based on our relaxation data, and we
will discuss the plausibility of the different models described in Sec.
II. These considerations, however, have to be considered with caution
for the following reasons: (i) there are too many parameters and effects
that influence the temperature dependence of the relaxation rate; (ii)
many parameters have a similar effect on the relaxation data; (iii) our
model calculations are based on a rather crude approximation for the
local

  ------------------- ------- ------- ------- -------
           x           0.11    0.15     0.2    0.25
   $\overline{P}(x)$   0.364   0.464   0.570   0.656
  ------------------- ------- ------- ------- -------

Table 3: Probability $\overline{P}(x)$ that a Ho ion has a coordination
shell that is geometrically distorted due to the presence of at least
one Sr or Ho ion.

Figure 9: (Color online) Probability p_(β)(x) for Ho having a distorted
shell for different doping levels as a function of β, the number of Sr
ions in its coordination shell.

susceptibility (neglect of the coherence factor around T_(c)).
Therefore, our conclusions may not be completely unambiguous. However,
our model calculations were motivated by the need to have a mathematical
tool to describe the relaxation data rather than to obtain a detailed
insight into the nature of the gap function. This is best exemplified by
the model parameter Δ₀, whose value is always slightly below the
empirical rule Δ₀ ≈ 2k_(B)T established for LSCO.[45]

Figure 11 presents a summary of the relaxation data, where the data are
plotted in reduced units Γ/Γ^(*) as a function of T/T^(*), where we
defined Γ^(*) = Γ(T^(*)). It is eye-catching that the shape of the
electronic excitation spectrum in the pseudogap region is dependent on
doping: the smaller the doping, the less gapped the relaxation data. The
reasons for that experimental result can be manifold.

There are three main characteristics in the doping dependence of the
relaxation rates for the ¹⁶O compound displayed in the upper panel of
Fig. 11.

(i) The doping affects Γ/Γ^(*) in the whole temperature range
0 < T  < T^(*). Such a behavior is inconsistent with a variation of the
temperature exponent A of the gap function [see Fig. 2(c)], but it can
be attributed either to changes in the gap amplitude Δ₀, an s-wave
contribution α to the gap function, changes in the superconducting
volume fraction V, or the contribution of higher harmonics B to the
d-wave gap as illustrated in Figs. 2(a), 2(b), and 2(d) or 2(f),
respectively.

(ii) The relaxation rates become finite even at very low temperatures,
thus we can rule out a pure s-wave gap for all doping levels; see Fig.
2(b).

(iii) Since there is no clear indication of any anomalies around T_(c)
in the relaxation rate (partly due to the lack of a sufficient number of
data points), we no longer consider the picture of gapless Fermi arcs
[see Fig. 2(e)], which, however, were used in the interpretation of the
relaxation data taken for HoBa₂Cu₄O₈.[67]

The relaxation data in reduced units are also presented for the ¹⁸O
compounds (middle panel of Fig. 11) as well as for the results of the
pressure experiments (lower panel of Fig. 11). For the case of the
oxygen isotope substituted compounds, we observe a suppression of the
relaxation rate with increasing doping, similar to the ¹⁶O data within
the experimental uncertainty. Both data sets show the characteristics
stated above. The application of hydrostatic pressure does not affect
the relaxation rate within the range of errors.

In our fitting procedure we consider the gap amplitude Δ₀, the pseudogap
temperature T^(*), and the slope of the Korringa line dΓ/dT as the major
fitting parameters where we keep the temperature exponent of Δ(k, T)
fixed at A = 4; see Eq. (10). The remaining parameters are set at some
reasonable values taken from other experiments as explained below.

In principle, the growing of the linewidth as doping decreases can be
interpreted by a small s-wave contribution to Δ₀, as has been found in
Ref. [46]. Since a nonvanishing oxygen isotope effect on T^(*) is
believed to implicate a phonon contribution to the pseudogap formation,
where the electron-phonon interaction is isotropic, the superconducting
gap must contain an s-wave contribution 1 − α. We therefore set up the
following constraint ΔT^(*):

$$\frac{\Delta T^{*}}{T^{*}}\approx\frac{\alpha}{1-\alpha}.$$
(21)

It has been shown repeatedly that underdoped high-T_(c) compounds are
inhomogeneous, i.e., superconducting and antiferromagnetic domains
coexist as evidenced by an incomplete Meissner fraction of the
superconducting state (see, e.g., Refs. [68, 69]). As a result, the
onset of bulk superconductivity results from a percolation mechanism. We
therefore introduce an incomplete superconducting volume fraction V  < 1
for the underdoped compounds in our model calculations.

Finally, we include higher harmonics into the gap function up to the
optimum doping, i.e., for the underdoped region we use values B < 1 as
observed for underdoped BSCCO.[48, 49]

The parameters used for the fitting procedure of the relaxation data are
summarized in Table 4. With these param

Figure 11: (Color online) The relaxation data for Ho@LSCO observed in
the present work are shown in reduced units Γ/Γ^(*) vs T/T^(*) for
different doping levels for the ¹⁶O compound (upper panel), the ¹⁸O
compound (middle panel), and for the application of pressure (lower
panel).

eters, we are able to reproduce the observed relaxation data in a
satisfactory manner; see Fig. 11.

## VI Conclusions

We applied neutron crystal-field spectroscopy systematically to
La_(1.96 − x)Sr_(x)Ho_(0.04)CuO₄ (0.11≤x≤ 0.25) in order to study the
effects of doping, oxygen isotope substitution, and pressure application
at the Ho³⁺ sites, which are situated close to the superconducting
copper-oxide planes. More specifically, we were able to determine
directly the pseudogap temperature T^(*) from the temperature dependence
of the line-width of the lowest-lying crystal-field transition
associated with the Ho³⁺ ions. We found clear evidence for the existence
of the pseudogap in the whole doping range, even for the heavily
overdoped compound (x = 0.25). [28]T^(*) gradually decreases with
increasing doping, and we have T^(*) > T_(c) for all doping levels. The
oxygen isotope substituted samples exhibit a similar behavior, however
the values of T^(*) are systematically higher. The isotope effect ΔT^(*)
decreases with increasing doping and vanishes eventually for the heavily
overdoped sample (x = 0.25). The application of pressure to the
optimally doped sample results in a downward shift of T^(*).

We would like to point out that the observed reduction of the linewidth
and therefore the suppressed interaction with the charge carriers is a
purely dynamic effect, because there is no structural phase transition
in the low-temperature regime (T≤ 100 K). Hence the sudden decrease of
the relaxation rate at T^(*) clearly originates from the opening of the
pseudogap.

Our relaxation data suggest that the superconducting gap has generally
d-wave symmetry. For the interpretation of the relaxation data in the
underdoped regime, we had to include some doping-dependent effects,
namely the existence of a nonsuperconducting volume fraction as well as
the inclusion of higher harmonics into the d-wave gap function. These
two effects nicely support the percolative nature of the
superconductivity as well as the growing importance of magnetic
interaction below the optimum doping level.

The opposite effect of oxygen isotope substitution and pressure on T^(*)
can be qualitatively explained by theoretical models including
phonon-mediated mechanisms of the pseudogap formation. [10, 11, 12]
However, lattice fluctuation alone cannot reproduce the observed
downward shift of T^(*) under pressure application, since pressure also
modifies the spin degrees of freedom. We therefore conclude on the basis
of our experimental results that a theoretical approach should contain
both lattice as well as antiferromagnetic fluctuations as supported by
recent calculations of oxygen isotope effects in high-T_(c) cuprates,
which started from the t-J scenario and included at the same time the
coupling of the electronic degrees of freedom to a Jahn-Teller Q₂-type
mode. [70]

## Acknowledgments

This work was performed at the Swiss Spallation Neutron Source SINQ,
Paul Scherrer Institut (PSI), Villigen, Switzerland. Stimulating
discussions with K.A. Muller and M. Sigrist as well as financial support
by the Swiss National Science Foundation through both the Project No.
20-66948.01 and the NCCR MaNEP project are gratefully acknowledged.

## References

* (1) See, e.g., R. Bultgog and C. Varma, Phys. World **13**(2), 33
(2002); V. M. Lokarev, R. M. Quick, and S. G. Sharapov, Phys. Rep.
**349**, 1 (2001). * (2) A. Lanzara, G. M. Zhao, N. L. Saini, A.
Bianconi, K. Conder, H. Keller, and K. A. Muller, J. Phys.: Condens.
Matter **11**, L541 (1999). * (3) D. Rubio Temprano, J. Mesot, S.
Janssen, A. Furrer, K. Conder, H. Mutka, and K. A. Muller, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **84**, 1990 (2000). * (4) D. Rubio Temprano, J. Mesot, S.
Janssen, K. Conder, A. Furrer, A. Sokolov, V. Trounov, S. M. Kazakov, J.
Karpinski, and K. A. Muller, Eur. Phys. J. B **19**, 5 (2001). * (5) D.
Rubio Temprano, K. Conder, A. Furrer, H. Mutka, V. Trounov, and K. A.
Muller, Phys. Rev. B **66**, 184506 (2002). * (6) A. Furrer, K. Conder,
P. S. Halfiger, and A. Podlesnyak, Physica C **408-410**, 773 (2004). *
(7) F. Raffa, T. Ohno, M. Mali, J. Roos, D. Brinkmann, K. Conder, and M.
Eremin, Phys. Rev. Lett. **81**, 5912 (1998). * (8) G. V. M. Williams,
J. L. Tallon, J. W. Quilty, H. J. Trodahl, and N. E. Flower, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **80**, 377 (1998). * (9) S. Andergassen, S. Caprara, C. Di
Castro, and M. Grilli, Phys. Rev. Lett. **87**, 056401 (2001). * (10) A.
Bussmann-Holder, J. Supercond. **13**, 773 (2000).

  ------ ----------- ------ --------------- ------ ------
  x        Δ₀ (K)     1−α    dΓ/dT (μeV/K)    B      V
  0.11    1.60± 0.2   0.25      4.7±0.2      0.85   0.75
  0.15    1.40± 0.2   0.15      5.9±0.2      0.95   0.9
  0.20    1.55± 0.1   0.10      6.2±0.1       1      1
  0.25    1.5± 0.1    0.0       3.8±0.2       1      1
  ------ ----------- ------ --------------- ------ ------

Table 4: Fitting parameters for La_(1.96 − x)Sr_(x)Ho_(0.04)CuO₄ using a
nonsuperconducting volume fraction V and the inclusion of higher
harmonics 1−B as explained in the text.

12] L. P. Gor’kov, J. Supercond. **13**, 765 (2000). * [13] H. Keller,
Struct. Bonding (Berlin) **114**, 143 (2005). * [14] G. M. Zhao, K.
Conder, H. Keller, and K. A. Muller, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter **10**,
9055 (1998). * [15] G. M. Zhao, H. Keller, and K. Conder, J. Phys.:
Condens. Matter **13**, R569 (2001). * [16] J. P. Franck, J. Jung, M.
A.-K. Mohamed, S. Gygax, and G. I. Sproule, Phys. Rev. B **44**, 5318
(1991). * [17] R. Khasanov, A. Shengelaya, E. Morenzoni, M. Angst, K.
Conder, I. M. Savic, D. Lampakis, E. Liarokapis, A. Tatsi, and H.
Keller, Phys. Rev. B **68**, 220506(R) (2003). * [18] R. Khasanov, D. G.
Eshchenko, H. Luetkens, E. Morenzoni, T. Prokscha, A. Suter, N.
Garifianov, M. Mali, J. Roos, K. Conder, and H. Keller, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**92**, 057602 (2004). * [19] A. Shengelaya, H. Keller, K. A. Muller, B.
I. Kochelaev, and K. Conder, Phys. Rev. B **63**, 144513 (2001). * [20]
G.-H. Gweon, T. Sasagawa, S. Y. Zhou, J. Graf, H. Takagi, D.-H. Lee, and
A. Lanzara, Nature (London) **430**, 187 (2004). * [21] E. Pytte, Phys.
Rev. B **10**, 4637 (1974). * [22] M. Mali, J. Roos, D. Brinkman, H.
Keller, A. V. Dooglav, Y. A. Sakhratov, and A. V. Savinkov, J.
Supercond. **15**, 511 (2002). * [23] M. Mali, J. Roos, H. Keller, J.
Karpinski, and K. Conder, Phys. Rev. B **65**, 184518 (2002). * [24] T.
Machi, M. Kosuge, N. Koshizuka, and H. Yamada, in _Advances in
Superconductivity IX_, edited by S. Nakajima and M. Murakami (Springer,
Berlin, 1996), pp. 111-114. * [25] L. J. Shen, C. C. Lam, V. Anand, and
S. H. Li, Physica C **341-348**, 929 (2000). * [26] E. V. L. de Mello,
M. T. D. Orlando, J. L. Gonzalez, E. S. Caixeiro, and E.
Baggio-Saitovich, Phys. Rev. B **66**, 092504 (2002). * [27] P. S.
Hafliger, A. Podlesnyak, K. Conder, and A. Furrer, Europhys. Lett.
**73**, 260 (2006). * [28] P. S. Hafliger, A. Podlesnyak, K. Conder, E.
Pomjakushina, and A. Furrer, Europhys. Lett. **67**, 1018 (2004). * [29]
A. Podlesnyak,, P. S. Hafliger, K. Conder, and A. Furrer, J. Phys.:
Condens. Matter **17**, S801 (2005). * [30] G. T. Trammell, Phys. Rev.
**92**, 1387 (1953). * [31] S. W. Lovesey and U. Staub, Phys. Rev. B
**61**, 9130 (2000). * [32] A. T. Boothroyd, Phys. Rev. B **64**, 066501
(2001). * [33] A. T. Boothroyd, A. Mukherjee, and A. P. Murani, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **77**, 1600 (1996). * [34] D. Rubio, J. Mesot, K. Conder, S.
Janssen, H. Mutka, and A. Furrer, J. Supercond. **13**, 727 (2000). *
[35] B. Roessli, P. Fischer, M. Guillaum, J. Mesot, U. Staub, M.
Zolliker, A. Furrer, E. Kaldis, J. Karpinski, and E. Jilek, J. Phys.:
Condens. Matter **6**, 4147 (1994). * [36] J. Mesot and A. Furrer, J.
Supercond. **10**, 623 (1997). * [37] J. Mesot and A. Furrer, _Neutron
Scattering in Layered Copper-Oxide Superconductors_, edited by A. Furrer
(Kluwer, Dordrecht, 1998), p. 335. * [38] See, e.g., H. Alloul, T. Ohno,
and P. Mendels, Phys. Rev. Lett. **63**, 1700 (1989). * [39] R. E.
Walstedt and W. W. Warren, Jr., Science **248**, 1082 (1990). * [40] J.
Korringa, Physica (Utrecht) **16**, 601 (1950). * [41] N. Bulut and D.
J. Scalapino, Phys. Rev. B **45**, 2371 (1992). * [42] J. Mesot, P.
Allenspach, U. Staub, A. Furrer, H. Mutka, R. Osborn, and A. Taylor,
Phys. Rev. B **47**, 6027 (1993). * [43] H. Ding, T. Yokoya, J. C.
Campuzano, T. Takahashi, M. Randeria, M. R. Norman, T. Mochiku, and K.
Kadowski, Nature (London) **382**, 51 (1996). * [44] J. Mesot, G.
Bottiger, H. Mutka, and A. Furrer, Europhys. Lett. **44**, 498 (1998). *
[45] M. Ido, M. Momono, and M. Oda, J. Low Temp. Phys. **117**, 329
(1999). * [46] H. J. H. Smilde, A. A. Golubov, Ariando, G. Rijnders, J.
M. Dekkers, S. Harkema, D. H. A. Blank, H. Rogalla, and H. Hilgenkamp,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **95**, 257001 (2005). * [47] M. R. Norman, H. Ding, M.
Randeria, J. C. Campuzano, T. Yokoya, T. Takeuchi, T. Takahashi, T.
Mochiku, K. Kadowski, P. Guptasarma, and D. G. Hinks, Nature (London)
**392**, 157 (1998). * [48] J. Mesot, M. R. Norman, H. Ding, M.
Randeria, J. C. Campuzano, A. Paramekanti, H. M. Fretwell, A. Kaminski,
T. Takeuchi, T. Yokoya, T. Sato, T. Takahashi, T. Mochiku, and K.
Kadowaki, Phys. Rev. Lett. **83**, 840 (1999). * [49] A. P. Schnyder, A.
Bill, C. Mudry, R. Gilardi, H. M. Ronnow, and J. Mesot, Phys. Rev. B
**70**, 214511 (2004). * [50] K. Conder, Mater. Sci. Eng., R. **R32**,
41 (2001). * [51] P. Fischer _et al._, Physica B **276-278**, 146
(2000). * [52] W. E. Fischer, Physica B **234-236**, 1202 (1997). * [53]
J. Mesot, S. Janssen, L. Holitzner, and R. Hempelmann, J. Neutron Res.
**3**, 293 (1996). * [54] Th. Strassle, M. Divis, J. Rusz, S. Janssen,
F. Juranyi, R. Sadykov, and A. Furrer, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter **15**,
3257 (2003). * [55] P. G. Radaelli, D. G. Hinks, A. W. Mitchell, B. A.
Hunter, J. L. Wagner, B. Dabrowski, K. G. Vandervoort, H. K.
Viswanathan, and J. D. Jorgensen, Phys. Rev. B **49**, 4163 (1996). *
[56] P. M. Singer, A. W. Hunt, A. F. Cederstrom, and T. Imai, Phys. Rev.
B **60**, 15345 (1999). * [57] A. Furrer, P. Bruesch, and P.
Unternahrer, Phys. Rev. B **38**, 4616 (1988). * [58] P. Fischer, K.
Kakurai, M. Steiner, K. N. Clausen, B. Lebech, F. Hulliger, H. R. Ott,
P. Brusch, and P. Unternahrer, Physica C **152**, 145 (1988). * [59] M.
T. Hutchings, in _Solid State Physics_, edited by F. Seitz and D.
Turnbull (Academic, New York, 1964), Vol. 16, p. 227. * [60] A. Ino, T.
Mizokawa, K. Kobayashi, A. Fujimori, T. Sasagawa, T. Kimura, K. Kishio,
K. Tamasaku, H. Eisaki, and S. Uchida, Phys. Rev. Lett. **81**, 2124
(1998). * [61] H. Takahashi _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **50**, 3221
(1994). * [62] M. C. Murayama, Y. Iye, T. Enomoto, N. Mori, Y. Yamada,
T. Matsumoto, Y. Kubo, Y. Shimakwa, and T. Manako, Physica C **183**,
277 (1991). * [63] N. Momono, T. Matsuzaki, M. Oda, and M. Ido, J. Phys.
Soc. Jpn. **71**, 2832 (2002). * [64] J. L. Tallon and J. W. Loram,
Physica C **349**, 53 (2001). * [65] P. W. Anderson, Science **235**,
1196 (1987). * [66] P. W. Anderson, P. A. Lee, M. Randeria, T. M. Rice,
N. Trivedi, and F. C. Zhang, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter **16**, R755
(2004). * [67] A. Furrer, D. Rubio Temprano, J. Mesot, K. Conder, and K.
A. Muller, J. Supercond. **15**, 361 (2002). * [68] P. G. Radaelli, C.
U. Segre, D. G. Hinks, and J. D. Jorgensen, Phys. Rev. B **45**, 4923
(1992). * [69] L. Gor’kov and V. Kresin, J. Supercond. **13**, 239
(2000). * [70] A. Bussmann-Holder and H. Keller, e-print
cond-mat/0409738 (unpublished).
