Experimental study of the magnetosuperconductor
RuSr₂Eu_(1.5)Ce_(0.5)Cu₂O_(10 − δ): Effect of Mo doping on magnetic
behavior and T_(c) variation

V. P. S. Awana,* R. Lal, and H. Kishan

National Physical Laboratory, Dr. K.S. Kirishnan Marg, New Delhi-110012,
India

A. V. Narlikar,^(†) M. Peurla, and R. Laiho

Wilburi Physical Laboratory, University of Turku, FIN-20014, TURKU,
Finland

Received 9 June 2005; revised manuscript received 21 July 2005;
published 19 January 2006

###### Abstract

Mo doped ruthenocuprates
Ru_(1 − x)Mo_(x)Sr₂Eu_(1.5)Ce_(0.5)Cu₂O_(10 − δ) are synthesized for x =
0.0, 0.2, 0.4, 0.6, 0.8, and 1.0, and their magnetic and superconducting
properties are studied. It has been found that the magnetic transition
temperature T_(ZFC)peak, which corresponds to the appearance of a weak
ferromagnetic effect, decreases from its value of 75 K for x = 0.0 to
22, 25, and 18 K, respectively for the x = 0.2, 0.4, and 0.6 samples.
Another finding is that the magnetic susceptibility reduces at
T_(ZFC)peak by a factor of about 6, 85, and 413 for x = 0.2, 0.4, and
0.6, respectively. The samples of x = 0.8 and 1.0 are found to have no
magnetic or superconducting effects. The values of the superconducting
transition temperature are obtained from the resistivity versus the
temperature data. An important result is that T_(c) increases by 4.5 and
7.0 K for x = 0.2 and 0.4, respectively, and then decreases by 17 K for
x = 0.6. The observed variation of T_(c) with x has been explained in
terms of a theory which combines the effects of weakening magnetic
behavior and reducing carrier concentration in a phenomenological
manner. The resulting theory is found to provide a good agreement with
the observed value of T_(c).

pacs: DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.73.014517 + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL
REVIEW B **73**, 014517 (2006)

## I Introduction

Coexistence of superconductivity and magnetism (in particular the
ferromagnetism) within a single (thermodynamical) phase has been a point
of discussion over several decades.[1, 2] Early evidence of these two
coexisting phenomenon were realized in various _f_-electron compounds
such as ErRh₄B₄.[3, 4] Recently coexistence of superconductivity and
magnetism has also been observed in UGe₂ (Ref. [5]), ZrZn₂ (Ref. [6]),
and in ruthenocuprates such as RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈ (Ru-1212) and RuSr₂(Gd, Sm,
Eu)_(1.6)Ce_(0.4)Cu₂O_(10 − δ) (Ru-1222) (Refs. [7, 8, 9]). In the
ruthenocuprates, magnetism originates basically from the RuO₂ sheets,
and superconductivity arises from the CuO₂ layers. Experiments like ESR,
NMR, and magneto-optics show genuine coexistence of superconductivity
and magnetism within the same phase of these compounds.[8, 10, 11] Some
workers have also considered the possibility of phase separation, i.e.,
isolated superconducting and magnetic regions within the same
compound.[12, 13, 14, 15]

More information on the interacting magnetism and superconductivity in
ruthenocuprates can be gained from such ruthenocuprates where Ru is
replaced partially by other ions of magnetic (Co, Fe) or nonmagnetic
(Nb, Mo) nature. A study of the change in the magnetic properties of
such a composite system is expected to provide useful information. In
this regard there are already some reports on Ru_(1 − x)M_(x): 1222
(Refs. [16, 17, 18]), where M=Fe, Co, Nb, and Mo. In this paper we
consider a substitution of Ru by Mo, and measure electric and magnetic
behavior for various contents of Mo. It may be noted that both Ru-1222
and Mo-1222 are isostructural,[16, 19] so we do not expect complications
from the lattice effects in the doped system. We study the electrical
and magnetic properties of
Ru_(1 − x)Mo_(x)Sr₂Eu_(1.5)Ce_(0.5)Cu₂O_(10 − δ) (1.0 ⇒ x ⇒ 0.0)
magnetosuperconductor. We expect these properties to be affected by Mo
due to its two main roles. The first is the decrease of carrier density
by the Mo substitution because Mo has a valency of +6, while Ru has
valency of +5. The second role of Mo lies in diluting the magnetic
effect of Ru. This is expected to result in the increased
superconducting transition temperature T_(c), as the low T_(c) of
ruthenocuprates is due to partial suppression of superconductivity by
the magnetism caused by Ru ions.

## II Experimental details

Samples of a Ru_(1 − x)Mo_(x)Sr₂Eu_(1.5)Ce_(0.5)Cu₂O_(10 − δ) (1.0 ⇒ x ⇒
0.0) series were synthesized through a solid-state reaction route from
stoichiometric amounts of RuO₂, SrO₂, EuO₂O₃, CeO₂, CuO, and Mo₂O₃.
Calcinations were carried out on mixed powders at 1000 ^(∘) C, 1020 ^(∘)
C, and 1040 ^(∘) C for 24 h at each temperature with intermediate
grindings. The pressed bar-shaped pellets were annealed in a flow of
oxygen at 1075 ^(∘) C for 40 h and subsequently cooled slowly over a
span of another 20 h down to room temperature. The same pellets were
further annealed in a flow of O₂ at one atmospheric pressure at 400 ^(∘)
C for 24 h and slowly cooled to room temperature in the same environment
over a span of 6 h. X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns were collected at
room temperature with CuK_(α) radiation. Resistivity measurements were
carried out by conventional four-probe method on a
close-cycle-refrigerator (CCR) down to 12 K. Magnetization measurements
were performed on a SQUID magnetometer (Cryogenic Ltd., model S600).

## III Results and discussion

### X-ray diffraction

X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns for
Ru_(1 − x)Mo_(x)Sr₂Eu_(1.5)Ce_(0.5)Cu₂O_(10 − δ) (1.0 ⇒ x ⇒ 0.0) series
of samples are shown in Fig. 1. It is evident from this figure that all
samples crystallize in a single phase with tetragonal structure (space
group I4/_mmm_). Respective indices are shown in the figure. As far as
pristine x = 0.0 is concerned, very small amounts of SrRuO₃ and/or
GdSr₂RuO₆ are seen close to the main intensity peaks which had earlier
been noted by other works also.^(7, 11, 12, 16) Our currently studied
samples are in fact, far better in terms of their phase purity as
compared to those reported earlier by various authors. As far as the
position (2 θ) of main peaks are concerned, a small decrease in them is
seen due to lower ionic size of Mo⁶⁺ than of the Ru⁵⁺ ion. This is in
agreement with earlier reports on the same system.^(16, 19) The pristine
compound (_x_ = 0) has its lattice parameters a = b = 3.835 (2) A and c
= 28.493 (6) A. On the other hand lattice parameters of the fully Mo
substituted (_x_ = 1) compound are a = b = 3.843 (5) A and c = 28.4653
(4) A. For Mo concentrations higher than x = 0.6, some extra peaks
(marked with *) of small intensity, along with SrMoO₄ and CuO are also
seen. Despite the presence of small intensity unreacted peaks, the
majority of Ru_(1 − x)Mo_(x)Sr₂Eu_(1, 5)Ce_(0.5)Cu₂O_(10 − δ) compounds
are mainly single phase.

### Magnetic behavior

In Fig. 2 we show the magnetization M of ruthenocuprate
Ru_(1 − x)Mo_(x)Sr₂Eu_(1, 5)Ce_(0.5)Cu₂O_(10 − δ) at different values of
the applied magnetic field H. In fact, we have applied magnetic fields
up to 6 T. The results are shown for the superconducting samples (_x_ =
0, 0.4, and 0.6) and for the nonsuperconducting sample (_x_ = 0.8) at
the temperature value of T = 5 K. The observed behavior of M may be
expressed as a sum of two contributions,

M = χH + σ_(s)(H).
(1)

The first term on the right-hand-side of this equation is linear in the
magnetic field H with χ as dc susceptibility. This contribution arises
from the antiferromagnetic (AFM) or spin glass behavior of the Ru spins.
The second term in the right-hand side of Eq. (1), σ_(s)(H), represents
the ferromagnetic (FM) component of the Ru spins. From Fig. 2 it is
clear that the x = 0 sample is characterized mainly by the FM component.
In fact, if we extrapolate the M vs H curve down to H = 0 T, it turns
out that M takes the value 3.9 emu/g. This means that the x = 0
ruthenocuprate has an essential presence of the FM effect in it. On the
other hand the x = 0.8 sample is completely linear in H in the complete
range of the considered values of H. This means [cf. Eq. (1)] that the
FM component σ_(s)(H)= 0 for this sample. When we move from the x = 0.0
sample to the x = 0.8 sample via the x = 0.4 and 0.6 samples, we observe
from Fig. 2 that the FM component σ_(s)(H) gets weakened with increasing
x, while the linear component χH is enhanced. On this basis it may be
said that with the increasing substitution of the Ru atoms by the Mo
atoms the FM effect is diluted gradually so that at the 80

In Fig. 3 we present the plots of the temperature-dependence of the dc
susceptibility _kh_ for x = 0.0, 0.2, 0.4, and 0.6, in an applied field
of 5 Oe. In the inset of this figure we show enlarged _kh_ versus the T
plot for x = 0.2 to show, in particular, branching of the field-cooled
(FC) and zero-field-cooled (ZFC) curves near 135 K. Formally, the shapes
of the field-cooled and zero-field-cooled curves of Fig. 3 for different
values of x are similar to that for x = 0 (Ref. [20]). The inset makes
it clear for x = 0.2. In order to compare the _T_-dependence of _kh_ for
various samples we present, in Table I, values of T_(g), _XZFC_ peak and
_TZFC_ peak. Here T_(g) is the temperature where the antiferromagnetic
(AFM) effect starts to occur when the temperature is lowered from the
higher side. T_(g) is identified from the separation of the FC and ZFC
branches. _khZFC_ peak denotes the maximum value of the susceptibility
for the ZFC case. This value of _kh_ signifies the appearance of a weak
FM/spin-glass (SG) state.²¹ The weak

Figure 1: X-ray diffraction patterns for the
Ru_(1 − x)Mo_(x)Sr₂Eu_(1, 5)Ce_(0.5)Cu₂O_(10 − δ) system.

FM state is believed to originate from the canting of the Ru moments,
which, in turn, results probably from an antisymmetric exchange coupling
of the Dzyaloshinsky-Moriya type.[22] The temperature at which χ has a
peak in the ZFC branch is denoted by $T_{ZFC}{}^{\rm peak}$.

From Table I we see that the temperature T_(mag) decreases slowly with
increasing x. On the other hand $T_{ZFC}{}^{\rm peak}$ shows a sharp and
complicated (nonmonotonic) behavior with increasing Mo content. First of
all, $T_{ZFC}{}^{\rm peak}$ drops sharply, by 72

### C. Resistivity and superconductivity

The resistivity (ρ) versus temperature plots for the Mo-doped samples of
RuSr₂Eu_(1.5)Ce_(0.5)Cu₂O_(10 − δ) are shown in Fig. 4 for temperature
values up to 160 K. Only the superconducting samples (x=0.0, 0.2, 0.4,
and 0.6) are shown in Fig. 4. The samples with 80

We estimate the transition temperature T_(c) for different values of x
from Fig. 4 in a way described in (Ref. [24]). The values of T_(c)
obtained in this way are shown in Fig. 5 for x=0.0, 0.2, 0.4, and 0.6.
An interesting result from Fig. 5 is that up to x=0.4 Mo enhances T_(c)
with increasing x. In fact estimated values of T_(c) are 33, 37.5, 40,
and 23 K for x=0.0, 0.2, 0.4, and 0.6, respectively. In order to
understand the behavior of T_(c) with x we consider the roles of Mo in
the ruthenocurgite systems. The first thing which we notice is that Mo
is nonmagnetic. So, its partial entry at the position of the Ru sites
will tend to weaken the magnetic effect of the Ru moments. As has been
discussed above (Fig. 2 and Table 1) the magnetic effect due to the Ru
moments is completely destroyed for and above x = 0.8. In order to take
account of this role of the Mo ions, we treat the effect of the
weakening of the magnetic effect of Ru moments within the
Abrikosov-Gorkov (AG) theory.[25] Since the original or weakened
magnetic effect is essentially due to the presence of the Ru ions, we
should consider the concentration of Ru ions formally as the
concentration of magnetic impurities in the AG theory. In this sense,
the concentration of the magnetic impurities will be given by 1 − x.
That is to say, the system is effectively pure for 1 − x = 0. Let T_(co)
denote the temperature of such a pure system. Then, the transition
temperature given by the AG theory must satisfy

$$T_{c,AG(x)} = \left\{\begin{array}{ll}T_{co} &(\text{for }x = 1) \\ T_{c}(x = 0) = 33~{}K &(\text{for }x = 0). \end{array}\right.$$

The AG theory expresses the temperature T_(c, AG) for a given impurity
concentration 1 − x through the expression,

$$\ln\left(\frac{T_{c,AG}}{T_{co}}\right) = \psi\left(\frac{1}{2}\right) - \psi\left(\frac{1}{2} + \frac{A(1 - x)}{2T_{c,AG}}\right).$$

Here ψ denotes the digamma function, and the parameter A, having the
dimensions of temperature, is given by

$$A = \frac{7N_{F}u_{2}^{2}5(S + 1)}{96\pi k_{B}}.$$

Here N_(F) is the density of states at the Fermi level, u₂ is the
strength of the exchange interaction caused by the interaction of the
carrier holes with the Ru moments, k_(B) is the Boltzmann constant, and
S is the impurity (Ru) spin.

Equation (3) is based only on the weakening of the magnetic effect due
to the Mo ions. There is another important effect of the Mo ions. In
fact, in ruthenocurgites Mo ions will exist in the Mo⁺⁶ form, as
compared to the Ru⁴⁵ form of the Ru ions. This means that each Mo atom
adds one electron in the system, thereby reducing the concentration of
the carrier holes. Since the x = 0 ruthenocurgite appears to correspond
to the underdoped regime of the cuprate superconductors (see above), and
since in the underdoped regime decrease of carrier concentration amounts
to suppression of T_(c),[26] the effect of the Mo atoms will tend to
decrease T_(c). Since the AG theory considers a fixed carrier
concentration, such a decrease of T_(c) requires modification of Eq.
(3). We do not go into such complications. Rather, we assume that the
two effects of the variation of T_(c)–weakening of the FM effect and
decrease of the carrier density–are separable from each other so that
T_(c)(x) may be written as

T_(c)(x) = T_(c, AG)(x)R(x).

Here the factor R(x) describes the suppression of T_(c) due to the
reduction of the carrier density, and so is defined by
$$R(x)=\begin{cases}1&(\text{for }x=0)\,,\\ \text{decreasing}&(\text{for increasing }x)\,,\\ 0&(\text{for }x\geq 0.8)\,.\end{cases}$$
(6)

For simplicity we consider the following form for R(x);

R(x) = θ(0.8 − x)[(0.8 − x)/0.8]^(a).
(7)

Here θ(y) = 1 for y > 0, and θ(y) = 0 for y < 0. The parameter a is a
phenomenological parameter. It is not difficult to see that Eq. (7)
satisfies the conditions of Eq. (6).

Equations (2)-(4) and (7) provide the phenomenology of T_(c) variation
in terms of two parameters, T_(ca) and a. On the basis of calculations
from these equations we have found that the resulting values of T_(c)
agree well with the experimental data for T_(ca)=90 K and a=0.55. This
is shown in Fig. 5. In this figure we have also shown the separate
effects due to the AG theory and reduction of carrier concentration. The
curve labeled T_(c, AG) shows the effect of pair breaking only, while
the curve marked T_(c, Mo) shows the effect of carrier reduction only
(T_(c, Mo)=33.0 K). It may be noted that T_(ca) is slightly less than
the transition temperature of YBa₂Cu₃O₇. Moreover, the value of a
signifies that initially the effect of the reduction of carrier
concentration is relatively slower than that for the larger values of x.
This is on expected lines, [26] and so shows the internal consistency of
the above interpretation.

## IV. Concluding remarks

We have synthesized samples of ruthenocuprate
RuSr₂Eu_(1.5)Ce_(0.5)Cu₂O_(10 − δ) by substituting Ru ions by the Mo
ions of concentration x=0.2, 0.4, 0.6, 0.8, and 1.0. The phase purity
and lattice parameters of these samples are discussed on the basis of
the XRD. In order to understand the effect of the Mo ions on the
magnetism of the ruthenocuprate Ru-1222, we have performed measurements
of magnetizaton (M) for different values of the applied field (H). The
H-dependence of the magnetization (taken at 5 K) shows that Mo
suppresses the weak FM effect of the Ru ions monotonically such that
this (FM) effect is completely lost by an 80

We have also measured resistivity of the considered samples. Only the
samples with x=0.0, 0.2, 0.4, and 0.6 are found to be superconducting
above 12 K. The behavior of resistivity for all the superconducting
samples is similar to that of the underdoped cuprate superconductors.
From the ρ − T plots we have extracted the values of the transition
temperature T_(c). It has been found that T_(c) increases with x up to
x=0.4. Thereafter T_(c) decreases for the x=0.6 sample. For the x=0.4
sample, the value of T_(c) becomes 40 K as against the value of 33 K
found for the x=0 sample. We have made an attempt to interpret the
observed variation of T_(c) with x by combining two different roles of
the Mo atoms. The first is the weakening of the FM effect of the Ru
moments. This effect is expressed through the AG theory. The second role
of the Mo atoms is the reduction of the carrier concentration. This
feature is modeled empirically, and a good agreement has been achieved
with the experimental data.

## Acknowledgment

The authors from the National Physical Laboratory appreciate the
interest and advice of Professor Vikram Kumar in the present work. One
of us (A.V.N.) thanks the University of Turku for providing research
facilities and for the invitation for the present visit.

## References

* [1] V. L. Ginzburg, Zh. Eksp. Teor. Fiz. **31**, 202 (1956), [Sov.
Phys. JETP **4**, 153 (1957)]. * [2] B. T. Mathias, H. Suhl, and E.
Corenzwit, Phys. Rev. Lett. **1**, 449 (1958). * [3] S. K. Sinha, G. W.
Crabtree, D. G. Hinks, and H. Mook, Phys. Rev. Lett. **48**, 950
(1982). * [4] Review article by M. B. Maple, Physica B **215**, 110
(1995).

Figure 5: Transition temperature versus x plots for the
Ru_(1 − x)Mo_(x)Sr₂Eu_(1.5)Ce_(0.5)Cu₂O_(10 − δ) system. The symbol
filled star shows the experimental points, and the curve marked with
T_(c)(x) show the final result of the interpretation presented in the
text. The separate effects of pair breaking and the reduction of carrier
concentration are shown by dashed-dotted line (T_(c, AG)) and dashed
line (T_(c, Mo)), respectively.

* [5] S. S. Saxena, P. Agarwal, K. Ahilan, F. M. Groshe, R. K. W.
Haselwimmer, M. J. Steiner, E. Pugh, I. R. Walker, S. R. Julian, P.
Monthoux, G. G. Lonzarich, A. Huxley, I. Sheikin, D. Braithwaite, and J.
Floquet, Nature (London) **406**, 587 (2000). * [6] C. Pfleiderer, M.
Uhlarz, S. M. Hayden, R. Vollmer, H. Von Lohneysen, N. R. Bernhoeft, and
G. G. Lonzarich, Nature (London) **412**, 58 (2001). * [7] I. Felner, U.
Asaf, Y. Levi, and O. Millo, Phys. Rev. B **55**, R3374 (1997). * [8] C.
Bernhard, J. L. Tallon, C. Niedermayer, T. Blasius, A. Golnik, E.
Brucher, R. K. Kremer, D. R. Noakes, C. E. Stronack, and E. J. Asnaldo,
Phys. Rev. B **59**, 14099 (1999). * [9] L. Bauernfeind, W. Widder, and
H. F. Braun, Physica C **254**, 151 (1995). * [10] J. Akimitsu, H.
Kawano-Furukawa, and H. Yoshizawa, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **70**, 333
(2001). * [11] I. Felner, E. B. Sonin, T. Machi, and N. Koshizuka,
Physica C **341**, 715 (2000). * [12] C. W. Chu, Y. Y. Xue, S. Tsui, J.
Cmaidalka, A. K. Heilman, B. Lorenz, and R. L. Meng, Physica C **335**,
231 (2000). * [13] V. P. S. Awana, S. Ichihara, J. Narppinen, H.
Yamauchi, Jinbo Yang, W. B. Yelon, W. J. James, and S. K. Malik, J.
Appl. Phys. **91**, 8501 (2002). * [14] A. T. Matveev, A. N. Maljuk, A.
Kulakov, C. T. Lin, and H.-U. Habermeier, Physica C **407**, 139
(2004). * [15] V. P. S. Awana, T. Kawashima, and E. Takayama-Muromachi,
Phys. Rev. B **67**, 172502 (2003). * [16] G. M. Kuzmicheva, A. S.
Anderenko, I. E. Kostyleva, A. Zelevskii, and J. Warchukka, Physica C
**400**, 7 (2003). * [17] T. Felner and U. Asaf, Physica C **292**, 97
(1997). * [18] H. K. Lee and G. V. M. Williams, Physica C **415**, 172
(2004). * [19] I. Felner and E. Galstyan, Phys. Rev. B **68**, 064507
(2003). * [20] R. Lal, V. P. S. Awana, H. Kishan, Rajeev Rawat, V.
Ganesan, A. V. Narlikar, M. Peurla, and R. Laiho (unpublished). * [21]
C. A. Cardoso, F. M. Araujo-Moreira, V. P. Awana, E. Takayama-Muromachi,
O. F. de Lima, H. Yamauchi, and M. Karppinen, Phys. Rev. B **67**,
020407(R) (2003). * [22] J. Dzyaloshinsky, J. Phys. Chem. Solids **4**,
241 (1958). * [23] H. Takagi, B. Batlogg, H. L. Kao, J. Kwo, R. J. Cava,
J. J. Krajewski, and W. F. Peck, Jr., Phys. Rev. Lett. **69**, 2975
(1992). * [24] M. S. Osofsky, R. J. Soulen, Jr., S. A. Wolf, J. M.
Broto, H. Rakoto, J. C. Ousset, G. Coffe, S. Askenazy, P. Pari, I.
Bozovic, J. N. Eckstein, G. F. Virshup _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**71**, 2315 (1993); A. P. Mackenzie, S. R. Julian, G. G. Lonzarich, A.
Carrington, S. D. Hughes, R. S. Liu, and D. C. Sinclair, _ibid._**71**,
1238 (1993); A. S. Alexandrov, N. Zavaritsky, W. Y. Liang, and P. L.
Nevsky, _ibid._**76**, 983 (1996). * [25] A. A. Abrikosov and L. P.
Gorkov, Zh. Eksp. Teor. Fiz. **39**, 1781 (1960) [Sov. Phys. JETP
**12**, 1243 (1961)]. * [26] Hunabo Zhang and Hirasho Sato, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **70**, 1697 (1993).
