Impact of Pr doping on superconductivity in
Bi₂Pr_(x)Ca_(3 − x)Cu₂O_(8 + δ)

K. Yoshida* and H. Sasakura

Department of Physics, Hamamatsu University School of Medicine,
Handa-cho, Hamamatsu, Shizuoka 431 3192, Japan

S. Tsukui and R. Oshima

Research Institute for Advanced Science and Technology, Osaka Prefecture
University, Sakai, Osaka 599 8570, Japan

T. Santoh and Y. Mizokawa

Department of Materials Science, Osaka Prefecture University, Sakai,
Osaka 599 8570, Japan

###### Abstract

A systematic study on the nature of Pr doping in
Bi₂Pr_(x)Ca_(3 − x)Cu₂O_(8 + δ) (0.2≤x≤0.6) has been made on films grown
by laser ablation. These films are a metastable Bi-2212 phase which has
not yet been grown in this doping range by other methods. The film with
x = 0.2 shows the highest zero-resistance temperature (_Tcz_) of about
65 K. _Tcz_ of the films decreases with increasing Pr content yielding a
metal-to-insulator transition for x > 0.5. By analyzing x-ray
photoelectron spectra we show that Pr is trivalent. From this we are
able to demonstrate that the variation of _Tcz_ with doping is
predominantly due to hole filling induced by the trivalent Pr.

27 September 1999; revised manuscript received 5 November 1999

## I Introduction

Most materials of the LnBa₂Cu₃O₇ system (Ln: lanthanide and Y) exhibit
superconductivity at about 90 K, and the value of the critical
temperature (_Tcz_) does not change dramatically [1, 2] with the change
of the element Ln. One exception to this behavior is insulating
PrBa₂Cu₃O₇, and some experimental results indicate that valence of Pr in
PrBa₂Cu₃O₇ is trivalent, while others indicate tetravalent (Refs. 3 and
4). To explain its nonsuperconductivity, many models have been proposed:
(i) hole filling due to Pr⁴⁺ ion, [4] (ii) replacement of Ba site with
Pr³⁺ (Ref. 5) and (iii) localization of holes by hybridization of Pr 4f
and O 2p orbitals. [4, 6] Among them, the model of hybridization has
been widely accepted, though Blackstead _et al._ pointed out that the
model cannot explain the difference in Pr content y, at which
superconductivity disappears, and |d_Tcz_/_dy_| between
Y1_(−γ)Pr_(x)Ba₂Cu₃O₇ and Y1_(−γ)Pr_(x)Ba₂Cu₃O₇ shows, [7]

Recently, however, bulk superconductivity has been observed in the
single crystal of PrBa₂Cu₃O₇ prepared by the traveling-solvent
floating-zone (TSFZ) method. [8, 9, 10] The results showed:
Superconductivity of the sample was very sensitive to the growth
condition, the valence of Pr was trivalent in the sample, and the
lattice parameter c of the sample was longer than the nonsuperconducting
sample. Further, in the LnBa₂Cu₃O₇ system (Ln: lanthanide and Y), only
the superconducting PrBa₂Cu₃O₇ compound showed large _Tc_ enhancement
under a high pressure; [9, 10, 11] the maximum increase of _Tc_ was by
about 50 K and the value of _Tcz_ was 105 K. However, neither the reason
for the difference between the superconducting and nonsuperconducting
PrBa₂Cu₃O₇ compounds nor the reason why only the superconducting
PrBa₂Cu₃O₇ compound has large pressure effect on _Tc_ among the
materials of the LnBa₂Cu₃O₇ system has yet been understood. Therefore it
is interesting to investigate other superconductors containing Pr and to
compare them with the PrBa₂Cu₃O₇ compound.

The Bi-2212 phase in the Bi-Pr-Ca-Cu-O system is a superconductor
containing Pr prepared by solid-state reaction. The crystal structure of
the compound was reported to be similar to the Bi-2212 phase of
Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O_(8 + δ), and the sample of Bi₂Pr_(0.5)Ca_(2.5)Cu₂O_(8 + δ)
(Ref. 12) showed the highest zero resistivity temperature (_Tcz_) of 45
K among the materials of the Bi₂Ln_(x)Ca_(3 − x)Cu₂O_(8 + δ) systems
[12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17] (Ln=La, Pr, Nd, Sm, Eu, and Gd). However, in
the Bi₂Pr_(x)Ca_(3 − x)Cu₂O_(8 + δ) system, an almost single phase
sample could be obtained only for the limited composition of x = 0.5,
and other samples were of the multiphase. On the other hand, the
thin-film preparation method allows one to make metastable Bi-2212 phase
that cannot be synthesized by solid-state reaction. For example, an
almost single Bi-2212 phase sample in the bulk
Bi₂La_(x)Ca_(3 − x)Cu₂O_(8 + δ) system was only x = 0.5 (Ref. 12), while
thin-film preparation method has been able to make the Bi-2212 phase
with a wide composition range, [18] 0.2≤x≤0.7.

We have prepared the Bi-2212 films with the wide composition range of
Pr, and have investigated the role of Pr for superconductivity in the
Bi₂Pr_(x)Ca_(3 − x)Cu₂O_(8 + δ) system. In this paper, we report on the
preparation and physical properties of Bi-2212 thin films of this
system.

## II Experiment

The films were synthesized by the laser ablation method using
Bi₂Pr_(x)Ca_(3 − x)Cu₂O_(8 + δ) compound targets. First, pellets for the
target were prepared by solid-state reaction. High purity powders of
Bi₂O₃, Pr₆O₁₁, CaCO₃, and CuO were mixed to a nominal composition of
Bi₂Pr_(x)Ca_(3 − x)Cu₂O₈ and pressed to pellets, which were heated at
820 degC for 10 h in air. The pellets for the target were reground,
pressed, and sintered at 820 degC for 10 h in air again. The targets
were placed in a high-vacuum chamber at a base pressure of 1.0 × 10⁻⁷
Torr and ablated by a pulsed KrF excimer laser (λ = 248 nm, τ= 23 ns,
100 mJ/pulse) in 0.02 Torr oxygen flow. The energy density of the laser
at the target was 1.0 J/cm², and the pulse repetition rate was 4.0 Hz.
The ablated materials were deposited on the MgO (100) substrate placed
at a distance of 3.0 cm from the target in the chamber. The thickness of
the films was 1.5 μm, and the deposition rate of the films was 3.0 $\AA$
per laser shot.

For the Bi₂Pr_(x)Ca_(3 − x)Cu₂O_(8 + δ) films, the substrate
temperatures were monitored by an optical pyrometer and were kept at
600-670 ^(∘)C. After the deposition, O₂ annealing treatment was
performed under 1 atm O₂ flow for 30 min at the temperature of 760-820
^(∘)C. The substrate and annealing temperatures of the films are
summarized in Table 1.

X-ray-diffraction patterns were obtained with a diffractometer using
CuKα radiation. The temperature dependence of electrical resistivity (ρ
vs T) was measured by the dc four-probe method. The temperature
dependence of magnetization (M vs T) was measured with a dc
superconducting quantum interference device (SQUID) magnetometer. The
composition of the films was analyzed by scanning electron
microscopy−x-ray energy dispersion spectroscopy (SEM-EDS). The x-ray
photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) measurement was performed using MgKα
radiation.

## III Results

X-ray-diffraction patterns of the Bi-2212 thin films in the
Bi₂Pr_(x)Ca_(3 − x)Cu₂O_(8 + δ) system (0.2≤_x_≈0.6) are shown in
Fig. 1. From the figure, we can see that most of the diffraction peaks
can be attributed to the c-axis oriented Bi-2212 phase. However, the
impurity phase of Bi-Ca-O is mixed to a larger extent for smaller Pr
content x. Though results for the films with _x_<0.2 are not shown in
the figure, these films have been found to be of the multiphase
consisting of the Bi-2212 phase, Bi-Ca-O and other unknown impurity
phases. The result indicates that Pr is necessary to stabilize the 2212
structure.

On the other hand, the film with x = 0.6 contains Bi-2212 and Bi-2223
phases of the Bi-Pr-Ca-Cu-O system together with unknown phases. The
fact that the film contains the Bi-2223 phase shows the existence of the
Bi-2223 phase in the Bi-Pr-Ca-Cu-O system. The detailed result of the
Bi-2223 phase will be published elsewhere.[19] When x exceeds 0.6, the
samples become of the mixed phase consisting of the present Bi-2212
phase, the Bi-2201 phase of the Bi-Pr-Ca-Cu-O system[20] and impurity
phases. These results indicate that the composition range of Pr to
stabilize the 2212 structure is 0.2≤_x_≈0.6. This result is in contrast
to the bulk Bi-2212 phase of Bi₂Pr_(x)Ca_(3 − x)Cu₂O_(8 + δ), as only
for x = 0.5 an almost single phase was obtained.[12] From these results,
we can emphasize that the present thin-film processing method is one of
the most useful methods to prepare new metastable phases.

M vs T for the Bi-2212 films in the Bi₂Pr_(x)Ca_(3 − x)Cu₂O_(8 + δ)
system is shown in Fig. 2. The measurement was performed on heating
after cooling within a magnetic field of 200 G, which was applied
parallel to the c axis of the film. In the

  --------- -------------------------------------- ------------ ----------- --------- ---------- ------------ ---------- ----------
                       Film composition             Deposition      O₂          c      _T_(cs)_   _T_(cmid)_   _T_(cz)_   _T_(cm)_
   Pr(_x_)                (SEM-EDS)                   temp.        temp.     ($\AA$)     (K)         (K)         (K)        (K)
     0.2     Bi_(1.79)Pr_(0.20)Ca_(2.64)Cu_(1.59)   600 ^(∘)C    760 ^(∘)C    30.02      80.0        72.5        65.0       75.0
     0.3     Bi_(1.89)Pr_(0.30)Ca_(2.53)Cu_(1.71)   630 ^(∘)C    790 ^(∘)C    29.97      77.0        67.0        57.0       70.0
     0.4     Bi_(1.79)Pr_(0.40)Ca_(2.82)Cu_(1.77)   650 ^(∘)C    790 ^(∘)C    29.95      55.0        37.5        20.0       51.0
     0.5     Bi_(1.91)Pr_(0.50)Ca_(2.43)Cu_(1.81)   670 ^(∘)C    820 ^(∘)C    29.92      45.0        30.0        15.0    
     0.6     Bi_(1.57)Pr_(0.68)Ca_(2.09)Cu_(1.56)   670 ^(∘)C    820 ^(∘)C    29.94                                      
  --------- -------------------------------------- ------------ ----------- --------- ---------- ------------ ---------- ----------

Table 1: Pr content x of the target materials, film composition
determined by SEM-EDS, substrate temperature, annealing temperature in
O₂, lattice parameter c, _T_(cs)_, _T_(cmid)_, _T_(cz)_, and _T_(cm)_ of
the Bi₂Pr_(x)Ca_(3 − x)Cu₂O_(8 + δ) films.

figure, the film with x = 0.2 shows the highest starting temperature of
diamagnetic signal (_Tc__m_), and its value decreases with increasing Pr
content x. The film with x = 0.5 does not show the diamagnetic signal.
The _Tc__m_ value of each film is shown in Table I. The result indicates
that the Bi2PrCa3-_x_Cu2O8+_d_ film changes from a superconductor to a
nonsuperconductor with increasing x.

r vs T for the Bi-2212 films in the Bi2PrCa3-_x_Cu2O8+_d_ system is
shown in Fig. 3. From the figure, we can see that the film with x = 0.2
shows the highest zero resistivity temperature (_Tc__c_) at 65 K in the
system. This value is higher by 20 K than that of the bulk sample.12
Moreover, the starting temperature of resistivity drop (_Tc__s_), the
middle temperature between _Tc__s_ and _Tc__c_; (_Tc__c_mid) and _Tc__c_
of the films decreased with increasing Pr content x. When x exceeded
0.5, metal-insulator transition occurred and the film with x = 0.6
showed semiconductorlike temperature dependence with no trace of
resistivity drop.

From the magnetic and resistivity measurements of the
Bi2PrCa3-_x_Cu2O8+_d_ films, it is clear that _Tc_ of the film decreases
with increasing Pr content x, and the film changes from a superconductor
to an insulator. From the results mentioned in the previous section, we
have found that _Tc__c_’s of Bi-2212 films in the Bi2PrCa3-_x_Cu2O8+_d_
system decrease with increasing Pr content x. In order to clarify the
origin of this decrease in _Tc__c_, we need to address the valence of
Pr. From the experimental results described below, we are able to show
that Pr is trivalent.

Figure 4 shows XPS spectra in the binding-energy range of 100 to 140 eV
for the Bi2PrCa3-_x_Cu2O8+_d_ films (0.2 ≤_x_ ≤0.6) as well as the bulk
compounds Pr6O11 and Pr2CuO4. In the case of the Pr6O11 compound, the
peak of Pr 4d is observed at the binding energy of about 115 eV; and an
additional structure denoted by 4f,1 at the energy of about 126 eV. The
former shows the existence of Pr3+, and the latter, the existence of
Pr4+ (Ref. [3]). Since the valence of Pr is trivalent in the Pr2CuO4
compound, the peak of Pr 4d (115 eV) is observed without the 4f (Ref.
[3]) peak. On the other hand, in the Bi2PrCa3-_x_Cu2O8+_d_ system, the
peaks of Pr 4d and Cu 3s are present3 at 115 and 121 eV and the peak
intensity of Pr 4d increases with increasing Pr content x. However, the
4f (Ref. [3]) peak which shows the existence of Pr4+ is absent. The Pr
4d spectra of the films is similar to the Pr2CuO4 compound than the
Pr6O11 compound though there is a shoulder on the low-energy side of the
Pr 4d peak. From the result, we conclude that the valence of Pr is
trivalent in the films.

Finally, we discuss the role of Pr3+ for superconductivity in the
system. In Fig. 5, the variations, with Pr content x and hole
concentration p, of _Tc__c_mid in the Bi2PrCa3-_x_Cu2O8+_d_ system are
shown (closed triangles). The data of the Bi2Sr2PrCa1-_x_Cu2O8+_d_ (open
triangles) is cited from Ref. [21] for comparison. The hole
concentration p of the systems has been calculated by the formula

p = 0.3 − x/2

by assuming the following experimental facts of the
Bi2Sr2PrCa1-_x_Cu2O8+_d_ system: (i) the oxygen content of the system is
a constant independently of Pr content x, (ii) Pr is trivalent, (iii)
one Pr3+ atom substituted for a Ca2+ atom diminishes one hole, and (iv)
the hole concentration p in

Figure 5: Variations of _Tc__c_mid in the Bi2PrCa3−_x_Cu2O8+_d_ system
with 0.2 x ≤0.6 as a function of Pr content x and hole concentration p
(closed triangle). The data of the Bi2Sr2PrCa1−_x_Cu2O8+_d_ system (open
triangle) (Ref. [21]) are given for comparison. The hole concentration p
of the systems was calculated by the formula p = 0.3 − _x_/2 (see the
text).

[CuO]+_p_ is 0.3 for x = 0.0. As shown in the figure, the two systems
show the parabolalike correlation of _T__c_mid with p, that is,
_T__c_mid increases with increasing hole concentration p, takes on a
maximum at p = 0.2 and then decreases. Therefore the decrease of T_(c)
in the system is interpreted in terms of hole filling due to the
substitution of Pr3+ for Ca2+.

## IV Conclusion

We have synthesized Bi-2212 thin films of the
Bi2Pr_(x)Ca_(3 − x)Cu₂O_(8 + δ) system prepared by the laser ablation
method. For this system, the Bi-2212 films were obtained in a wide
composition range, 0.2≤_x_ ≤ 0.6. The films in this composition range
were of the metastable Bi-2212 phase that have not been produced by
solid-state reaction except the film with x = 0.5. The film with x = 0.2
showed the highest values of _T__c_m and _T__c_z at about 75 and 65 K in
the system. The value of _T__c_z was higher by about 20 K than that
previously reported for the bulk Bi-2212 sample. Further, T_(c) of the
films decreased with increasing Pr content x, and metal-insulator
transition occurred when x exceeded 0.5. The variation of T_(c) was
explained in terms of hole filling due to the replacement of Ca2+ with
Pr3+.

###### Acknowledgements.

The authors are deeply grateful to Professor S. Fuyuki of Kisarazu
National College of Technology for the use of SEM-EDS measurement and to
M. Tanaka of Osaka Prefecture University for technical assistance of XPS
measurement. The authors would like to thank Professor Emeritus T.
Tabata of Osaka Prefecture University, and Professor A. Minakata and Dr.
T. Nishio of Hamamatsu University School of Medicine for continuous
encouragement throughout this study. This work was partly supported by
the Sasagawa Scientific Research Grant from Japan Science Society.

## References

* [*]Also at Department of Materials Science, Osaka Prefecture
University, Sakai, Osaka 599-8570, Japan. Electronic address:
kyoshida@hama-med.ac.jp * [2] P. H. Hor, R. L. Meng, Y. Q. Wang, L. Gao,
Z. J. Huang, J. Bechtold, K. Forster, and C. W. Chu, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**58**, 1891 (1987). * [3] J. M. Tarascon, W. R. McKinnon, L. H. Greene,
G. W. Hull, and E. M. Vogel, Phys. Rev. B **36**, 226 (1987). * [4] M.
Nagoshi, Y. Fukuda, N. Yamada, Z. Guo, T. Iri, K. Gondaira, H. Iwasaki,
Y. Syono, and M. Tachiki, Phys. Rev. B **46**, 8635 (1992). * [5] M. B.
Maple, B. W. Lee, J. J. Neumeier, G. Nieva, L. M. Paulius, and C. L.
Seaman, J. Alloys Compd. **181**, 135 (1992). * [6] H. A. Blackstead and
J. D. Dow, Phys. Rev. B **51**, 11 830 (1995). * [7] R. Fehrenbacher and
T. M. Rice, Phys. Rev. Lett. **70**, 3471 (1993). * [8] H. A. Blackstead
and J. D. Dow, Phys. Rev. B **57**, 5048 (1998). * [9] Z. Zou, K. Oka,
T. Ito, and Y. Nishihara, Jpn. J. Appl. Phys., Part **2** **36**, L18
(1997). * [10] Z. Zou, J. Ye, K. Oka, and Y. Nishihara, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**80**, 1074 (1998). * [11] J. Ye, Z. Zou, A. Matsushita, K. Oka, Y.
Nishihara, and T. Matsumoto, Phys. Rev. B **58**, 619 (1998). * [12] J.
G. Lin, C. Y. Huang, Y. Y. Xue, C. W. Chu, X. W. Cao, and J. C. Ho,
Phys. Rev. B **51**, 12 900 (1995). * [13] H. Sasakura, K. Nakahigashi,
S. Minamigawa, M. Kogachi, S. Nakanishi, N. Fukuoka, and A. Yanase, Jpn.
J. Appl. Phys., Part **2** **28**, L1769 (1989). * [14] O. Inoue, S.
Adachi, Y. Takahashi, H. Hirano, and S. Kawashima, Jpn. J. Appl. Phys.,
Part 2 **28**, L778 (1989). * [15] T. Kawano, F. Munakata, A. Nozaki, T.
Ikemachi, H. Yamauchi, and S. Tanaka, Physica C **165**, 67 (1990). *
[16] T. Kawano, F. Munakata, T. Ikemachi, A. Nozaki, H. Yamauchi, and S.
Tanaka, Physica C **165**, 143 (1990). * [17] W. Jiang, S. M. Green, and
R. L. Greene, Physica C **181**, 68 (1991). * [18] H. Sasakura, H.
Kawai, K. Yoshida, Y. Hayashi, K. Inoue, S. Noguchi, and K. Okuda, Adv.
Supercond. **VI**, 335 (1994). * [19] K. Yoshida, H. Sasakura, S.
Tsukui, and Y. Mizokawa, Physica C **320**, 115 (1999). * [20] K.
Yoshida _et al._ (unpublished). * [21] H. Sasakura, S. Minamigawa, H.
Teraoka, A. Hirose, S. Noguchi, and K. Okuda, Jpn. J. Appl. Phys., Part
**2** **31**, L221 (1992). * [22] K. Koyama, S. Kanno, and S. Noguchi,
Jpn. J. Appl. Phys., Part 1 **28**, 1354 (1989).
