# Upper critical fields in liquid-quenched metastable superconductors

K. M. Wong, E. J. Cotts, S. J. Poon

Department of Physics, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia
22901

###### Abstract

A systematic and quantitative study of upper critical fields in alloys
with increasing atomic number is carried out. The alloys are prepared by
the technique of liquid (splat) quenching. They include the metastable
body-centered-cubic (β) phase of Ti-Pd, Zr-Mo, Zr-Pd, and Hf-Mo,
amorphous phase of Zr-Rh, and the stable β phase of Ti-Mo and Ta-Hf.
Measurements are made in magnetic fields up to 90 kG and in temperatures
down to 0.5 K. The results are analyzed within the framework of the
dirty-limit theory of Werthamer, Helfand, Hohenberg, and Maki (WHHM). A
least-squares fitting routine is performed using _all the data_
(weighted equally) for a given sample. It is emphasized that the visual
critical-field gradient near the transition temperature cannot be taken
as the actual gradient in the presence of Pauli paramagnetic limitation.
The main findings are the following: (i) Even without including
renormalization corrections due to electron-phonon and electron-electron
interactions, very good fits to the WHHM theory are obtained; (ii)
critical-field data for all our samples (with minor exceptions in Hf-Mo)
are found to fall below or on the Maki curve (i.e., when the spin-orbit
scattering parameter λ_(n.o.) goes to infinity); (iii) values of
λ_(n.o.) are observed to range from 0.28 to 2.51 for the 3d and 4d
alloys; (iv) the spin-orbit scattering rates 1/τ_(n.o.) are found to
compare well with theoretical estimation using results from
band-structure calculation. The effect of sample inhomogeneity on the
value of λ_(n.o.) in Zr-Mo alloys is also illustrated. Inclusion of
renormalization effects in several alloys yields somewhat reduced (at
most by a factor of ∼ 2 in Ti-V) values of λ_(n.o.). Incorporating the
strong-coupling correction intuitively into the theory does not seem to
have an overall effect on the values of λ_(n.o.).

## I Introduction

Experimental study of superconductors in high magnetic fields during the
last two decades has been closely coupled with the development of
detailed theory. The interactions of magnetic field with the motion and
spin of the electrons of the Cooper pairs in superconductors, and the
spin-orbit interaction, have been revealed to be significant in
determining critical-field behavior. The theoretical development of
Maki[1] predicted an upper bound (the Maki curve) on critical fields
H_(c2)(T) as a result of orbital pair breaking. The further limitations
of H_(c2)(T) by Pauli paramagnetism were subsequently quantified by
Werthamer, Helfand, and Hohenberg[2] along with the restorative effects
on H_(c2)(T) of the spin-orbit interaction. The Werthamer, Helfand,
Hohenberg, and Maki (WHHM) theory was developed for weak-coupled,
homogeneous, dirty superconductors. Comparison of theory with
critical-field data was based on a two-parameter (α and λ_(n.o.)
representing Pauli paramagnetic limitation and spin-orbit scattering,
respectively) curve-fitting procedure. As interest in critical fields
has increased and data for a greater variety of superconductors have
been achieved, refinement of theory has followed. Extension of the
theory to include strong coupling has been attempted by Rainer and
Bergmann.[3] Further refinement of the theory has included the effects
of the electron-phonon interaction and electron-spin fluctuations, via a
renormalization procedure as suggested by Orlando _et al.[4]_ The WHHM
theory and developments can be found in several publications.[5, 6]

In this paper we report results obtained from a systematic and
quantitative study of upper critical fields in metastable
transition-metal-alloy superconductors. The latter class of materials
offers an excellent opportunity for the extensive study of upper
critical-field behavior H_(c2)(T) and to test the predictions of the
WHHM theory. Generally these samples satisfy the "dirty limit."
Employing the technique of liquid quenching, a large variety in the
selection of the sample constituents which form a "single phase" can be
attained, easily including transition metals from the fourth, fifth, and
sixth rows of the Periodic Table (3d, 4d, and 5d series). Thus the
spin-orbit scattering rate, a determining factor in the WHHM theory, can
be varied. Samples of good homogeneity can be produced or the degree of
homogeneity can be varied [so as to study the effect of inhomogeneity
upon H_(c2)(T)]. Samples of varying superconducting transition
temperature are attained (2.7 to 6.6 K). As a result, we are able to
test the applicability of the WHHM theory in a variety of suitable
samples, varying the parameters relevant to the WHHM theory over a wide
range. We find that the WHHM theory provides good fits to the data for
all samples, i.e., all our H_(c2)(T) data fall on or below the
theoretical Maki curve. The renormalization procedure suggested by
Orlando _et al.[4, 6]_ can also be applied and similarly good fits to
the data are produced. The parameter estimates provided by the data
analysis are in good agreement with theoretical estimates. The format of
this paper is as follows. In Sec. II experimental procedures are given.
Section III presents experimental results, analysis, and discussion.
Section IV is the summary and conclusion.

## II Experimental

The samples examined in this study are all transition-metal binary
alloys (see Table 1). Alloy constituents were selected from the 3d, 4d,
and 5d transition metals, with superconducting transition temperatures
of the alloys ranging from 2.7 to 6.6 K. The majority of the samples
were produced by quenching onto a copper plate at a glancing angle. The
copper plate was heated to 180 degC in an argon atmosphere. Foils 40 to
100 μm thick were produced. Alloys of Zr-Pd, Zr-Mo, and Hf-Mo were
liquid-quenched in this manner, while Ti-Mo and Ta-Hf did not require as
high a cooling rate. The Ti-Pd samples were produced by a modified
piston-anvil technique. All the above-mentioned alloys were produced in
metastable, body-centered-cubic (b-phase) crystal structures. Details of
sample preparation (and alloy structures) have been provided
previously.7 The Zr75Rh25 samples were amorphous, produced by melt
spinning in vacuum.

X-ray (Ni-filtered Cu _K_α radiation) analysis indicated that the
samples were single phase, except for Zr96Mo4 which contained traces of
α and ω phases. The latter was intentionally selected so as to study the
effects of inhomogeneity upon _H__e_2. Four terminal measurements of the
zero-field superconducting transition of samples revealed transition
widths (defined by the 0

Measurements of critical fields _H__e_2(_T_) were undertaken at fields
up to 90 kG and temperatures down to 0.5 K. A superconducting magnet
with a 3-cm-diam, 3-cm-long homogeneous (0.2

All measurements were taken with the samples, and thus current density
J, parallel to the field (_J_|_|_B_). Current densities were at all
times less than 1 A/cm2. The magnetic field was swept at a constant
positive rate of 6 kG/sec. For a given sweep, the 50

c c c c c c c c c & _ρ_n & _T__e_2 & _ΔT__e_ & & & & _λ__n._T__e_2 &
_ξ_2 & _ξ_2 & _ξ_2 & _ξ_2 & _ξ_2 & _ξ_2
Alloys & (_μ_Δ_Δ_cm) & (K) & (mK) & _α__(visual) & _α__(a.o.) & (K) &
(meV)2
Ti42V58a & 59 & 7.52 & & 1.58 & 1.84 & 0.28 & 2.11 & ∼420 & (Ti,V)
Ti83Mo15 & 115 & 4.08 & 60 & 1.64 & 1.86 & 0.64 & 2.61 & &
Ti8Pd15 & 210 & 3.82 & 60 & 1.99 & 2.20 & 0.65 & 2.48 & &
Ti58Nb4a & 53 & 8.99 & & 1.35 & 1.51 & 1.33 & 11.5 &
Zr75,Rh25 & 160 & 4.30 & 5 & 1.50 & 1.79 & 1.84 & 7.91 & ∼3600 & (Zr)
(as-quenched) & & & & & & & &
Zr75Rh25 & 155 & 3.97 & 5 & 1.58 & 1.76 & 1.69 & 6.71 & &
(annealed) & & & & & & & &
Zr8Pd15 & 130 & 4.80 & 20 & 1.25 & 1.40 & 2.51 & 12.0 & &
Zr83Mo7 & 130 & 4.91 & 550 & 1.06 & 1.20 & 2.00 & 9.82 & &
Zr83Mo4 & 119 & 4.47 & 540 & 0.89 & 0.98 & ∞ & ∞ & &
Hf960,Mo40.4 & 165 & 2.71 & 230 & 1.19 & 1.30 & ∞ & ∞ & ∼36 000 & (Hf)
Ta75Hf25 & 60 & 6.62 & 100 & 0.64 & 0.68 & ∞ & ∞ & ∼60 000 & (Ta)

Table 1: Superconducting and normal-state parameters for all the alloys
discussed in the text. No renormalization correction is taken into
account. _ΔT__e_ denotes transition width defined by the 0

Figure 1: Resistance as a function of magnetic field for a Zr85Pd15
sample at four temperatures. Dashed lines extrapolate to zero
resistance. Up- and down-pointing arrows indicate 0

## III Results, Analysis, and Discussion

### Fitting H_(e2)(T) data

The critical field as a function of temperature, H_(e2)(T), is displayed
for a number of alloys in Figs. 2−6 for temperatures 0.5 K  < T < T_(e).
The vertical bars are not error bars per se, but reflect the field
transition width (extrapolated 0

The critical-field data were analyzed via the WHHM theory. A
two-parameter fit to the data was performed. The fitting parameters were
the Maki paramagnetic limitation parameter α and the spin-orbit
scattering parameter $\lambda_{\rm s,o}$.

The value of α is related to the electronic specific heat γ and the
resistivity ρ_(n) in the normal state:

α = 3e²ℏγρ_(n)/2mπ²k_(B)² .
(1)

With additional experimental data (i.e., accurate values for ρ_(n) and
γ) α can thus be determined and the data analysis reduced to a
one-parameter fit. Barring such data, the analysis remains a
two-parameter fit. We have chosen to determine the parameters
$\lambda_{\rm s,o}$ and α_utilizing all the data_. The H_(e2)(T) data
are fitted with the formula provided by WHH,2 in terms of digamma
functions:

$$\ln\!\frac{1}{t} = \left[\frac{1}{2}+\frac{i\lambda_{\rm s,o}}{4\gamma}\right]\psi( \frac{1}{2}+(\vec{R}+\frac{1}{2}\lambda_{\rm s,o}+i\gamma)/2t)$$
(2)
$$+ \left[\frac{1}{2}-\frac{i\lambda_{\rm s,o}}{4\gamma}\right]\psi( \frac{1}{2}+(\vec{R}+\frac{1}{2}\lambda_{\rm s,o}-i\gamma)/2t)$$
$$-\psi\left[\frac{1}{2}\right]\ ,$$

where
$\gamma\!=\![(\alpha\vec{n})^{2}\!-\!(\frac{1}{2}\lambda_{\rm s,o})^{2}]^{1/2}$.
Thus

$$\frac{\vec{R}}{(-d\vec{h}/dt)_{t=1}}\!=\!\frac{\pi^{2}\vec{h}}{4}\!=\!\frac{H _{e2}}{(-dH_{e2}/dt)_{t=1}}$$
(3)

and

$$\alpha\!=\!5.3\!\times\!10^{-5}\left[\frac{-dH_{e2}(T)}{dT}\right]_{T=T_{e}}\ .$$
(4)

Equation (4) offers an approximate value for α if one estimates
[dH_(e2)(T)/dT]_(T_(e)) utilizing data at temperatures near T_(e) (i.e.,
finds a visual gradient). We use α deduced from the visual gradient as a
guideline in beginning the least-squares fitting routine. The latter is
performed on a CDC Cyber 855 computer. A grid search was utilized (to
characterize the contours and to avoid local minima) followed by a
gradient search method.10 To find h⃗ for a given t, α, and
$\lambda_{\rm s,o}$, a bisection method was employed (as t can be a
double-valued function of h⃗ for
$\lambda_{\rm s,o}\!<\!\lambda_{\rm s,o}^{\rm s}\!=\!0.5319$).2 The best
fits to the 0

Figure 3: Upper critical data (0

Figure 2: Reduced-field h^(•) as a function of reduced temperature t for
alloys of the 3d, 4d, and 5d series to illustrate the general trend of
h^(•) at increasing atomic number. Normalization of H_(e2)(T) is carried
out using the visual critical-field gradient (see text).

values for $\lambda_{\rm s.o.}$ and α are tabulated in Table 1. A check
on the value of α is provided utilizing data over a limited range (∼0.9
< t < = 1.0), by comparing α as deduced from the fitting procedure (α
fit) and α as deduced from the visual gradient via Eq. (4) (α visual).
The probable error in α as deduced via the slope of H_(ϵ2)(T) near T =
T_(ϵ) depends on the curvature of H_(ϵ2)(T) near T_(ϵ), i.e., on the
values of $\lambda_{\rm s.o.}$ and α. The curvature of H_(ϵ2)(T) for T
near T_(ϵ) is greater for smaller $\lambda_{\rm s.o}$ (or larger α
values). In fact, we note agreement between $\alpha_{\rm fit}$ and
$\alpha_{\rm visual}$ only for very large $\lambda_{\rm s.o.}$, whereas
$\alpha_{\rm fit}$≃1.19$\alpha_{\rm visual}$ in the case of small
$\lambda_{\rm s.o.

  

### Spin-orbit scattering effects

The WHHM theory assumes that the spin-orbit scattering rate (1/_t_s.o.) is much less than the transport scattering rate (1/_t_tr). In general we observed [via fits of the \(H_{e^{2}}(T)$
data] the ratio _t_s.o/_t_tr to be much greater than 1. The 3d and 4d
alloys examined revealed values of _l_a.o. < 3., i.e., _t_s.o. > 10-13
dec, [_t_s.o. = 2_ft_3_2k2_T_d_s.o.)-1].2 An estimation of _t_tr can be
achieved via4_t_tr_d_2x10_t_y_t_o[_n The first alloy considered,
Zr93Mo7, is stable in the β phase,[7] whereas Zr96Mo4 is on the phase
boundary between α-, β-, and ω-Zr. X-ray diffraction reveals the
presence of α- and ω-Zr in the Zr96Mo4 alloy only. Furthermore, it can
be noted that the superconducting transition from 0

When $H_{\rm c2}(T)$ is examined for Zr93Mo7 values of α = 2.0 and
$\lambda_{\rm s,o}$ = 1.9 are found via the WHHM analysis. The value of
$\lambda_{\rm s,o}$ $T_{\rm c}$ = 9.8 is of the same order of magnitude
as the other 4d alloys considered. However, $H_{\rm c2}(T)$ for the
Zr96Mo4 alloy displays large value for $\lambda_{\rm s,o}$
($\lambda_{\rm s,0}$ = ∞ ). We interpret this result as possible further
evidence of the influence of inhomogeneity of a sample upon its
critical-field behavior.[14] On the other hand, results on Zr75Rh25
annealed at 550 K for 68 h are very similar to the as-quenched sample
(see Table 1). The transition width remains very sharp (∼ 5 mK).

### Renormalization and strong coupling corrections

Recently, evidence has been presented to the effect that electron-phonon
and electron-electron interactions will decrease the Pauli limiting
field, and lack of consideration of these effects will result in
enormously large values of spin-orbit scattering rates.[4, 6] It was
concluded that only by inclusion of these effects could $H_{\rm c2}(T)$
data for Nb5Sn reasonably be fitted and it was stated that even in weak
coupled superconductors the effects of electron-phonon renormalizations
of normal-state parameters could be significant. Although we are able to
fit our data quite reasonably within the auspices of the unrenormalized
WHHM theory, we attempt to take this one step further by performing the
renormalization procedure as suggested by Orlando and Beasley[4] for our
$H_{\rm c2}(T)$ data for a number of samples. We thus obtained values
for the spin-orbit interaction parameter, renormalized
($\lambda^{\prime}_{\rm s,o}$) and the paramagnetic limitation
parameter, renormalized (α^(′)), as well as values for
$\lambda_{\rm s,ph}$ and $\lambda_{\rm sf}$ (the mass renormalizations
from the electron-phonon and electron-electron interactions). Comparison
can then be made with the "bare" values.

The renormalization procedure is based upon the enhancement of the Pauli
limiting field $H_{p}^{\rm BCS}$ by electron-phonon and
electron-electron [and the related Stoner enhancement factor
1/(1-$\overline{I}$)] many-body corrections. The enhancement is
quantified:

$$H_{p} = (1 + \lambda_{\rm e,ph} + \lambda_{\rm sf})(1 - \overline{I})H_{p}^{\rm BCS}\ .$$
(6)

With values for $\lambda_{\rm e,ph}$$\lambda_{\rm sf}$, and
$\overline{I}$ we substitute α^(′) for α in Eq. (2), where we obtain
α^(′)

$$\alpha^{\prime} = \frac{\alpha}{(1 + \lambda_{\rm e,ph} + \lambda_{\rm sf})(1 - \overline{I})}\ ,$$
(7)

and redo the fits to the $H_{\rm c2}(T)$ curves, where α is given in Eq.
(4). The values of $\lambda_{\rm e,ph}$$\lambda_{\rm sf}$, and
$\overline{I}$ are deduced from the $T_{\rm c}$, magnetic
susceptibility, and mass enhancement equations:

$$T_{\rm c} = \frac{\Theta_{D}}{1.45}\exp\left[ { - \frac{1 + \lambda_{\rm e,ph} + \lambda_{\rm sf}}{\lambda_{\rm e,ph} - \lambda_{\rm sf} - \mu^{\star}}} \right]\ ,$$
(8)
$$\lambda_{\rm sf} = \frac{\alpha}{2}\overline{I}\ln\left[ { 1 + \frac{P_{1}^{2}}{12}\frac{\overline{I}}{1 - \overline{I}}} \right]\ ,$$
(9)
$$N^{\gamma}(0) = (1 + \lambda_{\rm e,ph} + \lambda_{\rm sf})N_{b}(0)$$
(10)
$$= 9.46 \times 10^{- 10}\frac{M}{\rho_{\star}d}\left[ { - \frac{dHc_{2}}{dT}} \right]_{T = T_{\rm c}}\ ,$$

$$\chi_{\rm p} = \frac{\mu_{B}^{2}N_{b}(0)}{1 - \overline{I}}\ ,$$
(11)

where d is the density, Θ_(D) is the Debye temperature, P₁ is a momentum
cutoff parameter, and μ^(⋆) is taken to be 0.13. We do not deduce
$\overline{I}$ from experimental measurements of magnetic susceptibility
as we are not able to separate the valence and Van Vleck terms; we
instead depend upon values for the elements, calculated by Janak.[15]
Janak actually supplies values of I, related to $\overline{I}$ via

$$\overline{I} = 2N_{b}(0)I\ .$$
(12)

It is found that the value of I (≃0.3 eV) is almost constant for the
refractory metals.[15] Moreover, the theoretical Stoner enhancement
factor also compares favorably with its experimental counterpart.[16]
For the alloys, we have checked the experimental value of the Stoner
enhancement factor in amorphous Zr72Cu28 corrected for the Van Vleck
term.[17] It agrees with the theoretical value (∼ 1.6) obtained using
N_(b)(0)=0.55 states/eV atom spin from specific-heat data[18] and I=0.34
eV from Janak.[15] The values for momentum cutoff P₁ (expressed as a
fraction of the Fermi momentum) for Nb and V are obtained from the
theoretical results of Ref. [16] and Eq. (9). Assuming that the
neighboring refractory metals (e.g., Ti, Zr, Hf, Ta) have similar P₁
values for each series, we take (P₁²)_(3d)≃1.2, (P₁²)_(4d)≃(P₁²)_(5d)≈2.
Values of Θ_(D) in general are obtained from the literature (see Table
2).

Knowing the _actual_ critical-field gradient, Θ_(D), $T_{\rm c}$, one
can solve for $\overline{I}$, $\lambda_{\rm e,ph}$, $\lambda_{\rm sf}$,
N_(b)(0) using Eqs. (8)–(10) and (12). Therefore, we can employ the
grid-searching scheme discussed above to carry out the two-parameter fit
to include renormalization effects. This is done for only five alloys
where specific-heat data are available. We find that the quality of the
fit to the data is also excellent. Results for some of the alloys are
illustrated by dotted lines in the figures. The relevant parameters are
listed in Table 2. Values of renormalized spin-orbit scattering
parameters are somewhat (at most by a factor of 2) reduced from the bare
values. The trend of $\lambda_{\rm s,o}$ remains unchanged.

Until now, a theory which incorporates both renormalization and
strong-coupling corrections has not been developed. In the case of very
strong spin-orbit scattering ($\lambda_{\rm s,o}$  → ∞ ), Rainer and
Bergmann[3] calculated the enhancement of $H_{\rm c2}(T)$ for several
typical electron-phonon spectra. They quantified the enhancement by a
parameter
$\eta_{H_{\rm c2}}(T)$=$H_{\rm c2}(T)/H_{\rm c2}^{\rm BCS}(T)$. Results
at T = 0 and $T_{\rm c}$ were given for the Debye model as a function of
$T_{\rm c}/\langle\omega\rangle$, where ⟨ω⟩ is the average phonon
frequency. The function $\eta_{H_{\rm c2}}(T)$≃1 was found to increase
as a func tion of temperature. Assuming that this trend holds for our
samples, the $H_{\rm e2}^{\rm BCS}(T)$ data to be fitted to the WHHM
theory will tend to follow a curve with decreasing curvature towards
T_(ϵ). The latter tends to increase the value of
$\lambda_{\rm s.o.}^{\prime}$ in the curve-fitting procedure. On the
other hand, a reduced field gradient at T_(ϵ) also decreases the value
of α^(′) and thus the value of $\lambda_{\rm s.o.}^{\prime}$. To examine
the overall effect more quantitatively, we divide our H_(ϵ2)(T) data by
an extrapolated function η_(H_(ϵ2))(t) ≃ 1.06 + 0.05t, a form compatible
with typical T_(ϵ)/(ω) values.[3] Curve fitting to the corrected
H_(ϵ2)(T) data results in $\lambda_{\rm s.o.}^{\prime}=$ 0.12 for Ti-V,
1.3 for Zr-Rh, and ∞ for Ta-Hf alloys. Therefore, the net effect due to
strong coupling correction on the values of
$\lambda_{\rm s.o.}^{\prime}$ (see Table II) might be small.

## IV Summary and Conclusion

We have measured in detail (H≤ 90 kG, T_(ϵ) > T> 0.5 K) the upper
critical fields in several liquid-quenched metastable superconductors.
Analysis is performed within the framework of the WHHM theory using all
the data (weighted equally) in a two-parameter
($\alpha,\lambda_{\rm s.o.}$) curve-fitting procedure. Excellent fits
are obtained. The spin-orbit scattering parameter $\lambda_{\rm s.o.}$
is found to be smaller than ∼ 2.5 for the 3d and 4d alloys. Sample
inhomogeneity is found to increase the $\lambda_{\rm s.o.}$ value
significantly. Otherwise, no enhancement (with the exception of one data
point in Hf-Mo) of H_(ϵ2)(T) above the Maki curve
($\lambda_{\rm s.o.}=\infty$) is observed. The spin-orbit scattering
time is compared favorably to data obtained from band-structure
calculation. An attempt is made to include both renormalization and
strong coupling corrections in the data analysis. The overall effect
reduces the value of $\lambda_{\rm s.o.}$ by at most a factor of ∼ 2 in
our samples. The relative insensitivity of renormalization correction in
our alloys is probably due to the mutually compensating factors
($1+\lambda_{\rm s.o.}+\lambda_{\rm sf}$) and (1 − T̄). Also, in bulk
samples, orbital pair breaking already plays a major role in determining
the upper critical field. This is different in thin films[19] where
renormalization correction can have a very important effect on the value
of $\lambda_{\rm s.o.}$.

###### Acknowledgements.

The authors thank Dr. T. P. Orlando for useful discussions. They also
are indebted to Dr. B. Deaver for providing them with the crucial
electronic parts of the temperature controller. This research is
sponsored by the National Science Foundation Grant No. DMR-83-02624.

## References

* [*] "Present address: Ames Laboratory, U.S. DOE, Ames, IA , 50011. *
[+] Present address: W. M. Keck Laboratory, California Institute of
Technology, Pasadena, CA 91125. * [++] K. Maki, Physica (N.Y.) 1, 127
(1964); K. Maki, Phys. Rev. **148**, 362 (1966). * [5] N. R. Werthamer,
E. Helfand, and P. C. Hohenberg, Phys. Rev. **147**, 295 (1966); E.
Helfand and N. R. Werthamer, _ibid._**147**, 288 (1966). * [6] D. Rainer
and G. Bergmann, J. Low Temp. Phys. **14**, 501 (1974). * [7] T. P.
Orlando, E. J. McNiff, Jr., S. Foner, and M. R. Beasley, Phys. Rev. B
**19**, 4545 (1979); T. P. Orlando and M. R. Beasley, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**46**, 1598 (1981). * [8] W. Hansch, Phys. Rev. B **29**, 446 (1984). *
[9] T. P. Orlando, in _Superconductivity in d- and f-Band Metals,_
edited by W. Buckel and W. Weber (Kernforschungszentrum, Karlsruhe GmbH,
1982) p. 75, and references therein. * [10] S. J. Poon and T. E.
Dowling, Solid State Commun. **50**, 189 (1984); S. J. Poon,
_ibid._**47**, 431 (1983). * [11] "The Ge semiconductor thermometer and
calibration were obtained from Lakeshore Cryotronics, Inc., Westerville,
Ohio. * [12] A. C. Rose-Innes, _Low-Temperature Techniques_ (The English
Universities Press Limited, London, 1964). * [13] P. R. Everington,
_Data Reduction and Error Analysis for the Physical Sciences_
(McGraw-Hill, New York, 1969), p. 204. * [14] L. J. Neuringer and Y.
Shapira, Phys. Rev. Lett. **17**, 81 (1966). * [15] M. G. Karkut and R.
R. Hake, Phys. Rev. B **28**, 1396 (1983). * [16] O. Jepsen, O. Krogh
Andersen, and A. R. Mackintosh, Phys. Rev. B **12**, 3084 (1975). * [17]
S. J. Poon, S. K. Hasanain, and K. M. Wong, Phys. Rev. Lett. A **93**,
495 (1983), and references therein. * [18] J. F. Janak, Phys. Rev. B
**16**, 255 (1977). * [19] F. Rietschel and H. Winter, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**43**, 1256 (1979); H. Rietschel, H. Winter, and W. Reichardt, Phys.
Rev. B **22**, 4284 (1980). * [20] H. J. Eifert, B. Elschner, and K. H.
J. Buschow, Phys. Rev. B **25**, 7441 (1982). * [21] K. Samwer and H. v.
Lohneysen, Phys. Rev. B **26**, 107 (1982). * [22] P. M. Tedrow, J. T.
Kucera, D. Rainer, and T. P. Orlando, Phys. Rev. Lett. **52**, 1637
(1984); also private communication.
