# Observation of the Josephson plasma reflectivity edge in the infrared
region

in Bi-based superconducting cuprates

T. Motohashi, J. Shimoyama, K. Kitazawa, and K. Kishio

Department of Applied Chemistry, University of Tokyo, Hongo 7-3-1,
Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 113-8656, Japan

K. M. Kojima and S. Uchida

Graduate School of Frontier Sciences, University of Tokyo, Hongo 7-3-1,
Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 113-8656, Japan

S. Tajima

Superconductivity Research Laboratory, ISTEC, Shinomone 1-10-13,
Koto-ku, Tokyo 135-0062, Japan

###### Abstract

The far-infrared c-axis optical reflectivity spectra of a heavily
Pb-doped Bi2212, Bi_(1.6)Pb_(0.6)Sr_(1.8)CaCu₂O_(y) , single crystal
(T_(c) = 65 K) were measured in the superconducting state. The crystal
was found to be carrier overdoped as the optical phonons are weakly
screened by the electronic excitations in the far-infrared region. Below
T_(c) , a sharp reflectivity edge was observed, corresponding to the
appearance of the Josephson plasma in the superconducting state. The
plasma edge frequency reached 40 cm⁻¹ at 8 K, which is comparable with
that observed for other cuprates with much less anisotropy. The c-axis
penetration depth λ_(c) = 12.6 μm was estimated from the unscreened
plasma frequency $\omega_{\rm ps}^{c}$ = 126.2 cm⁻¹. This λ_(c) value is
one order of magnitude smaller than that of the optimally doped pure
Bi2212, reflecting a drastic enhancement of the interlayer coupling in
Pb-doped Bi2212.

It is known that the superconductivity in the high-T_(c) superconducting
cuprates (HTSCs) is two dimensional. This is partly caused by the
characteristic crystal structure consisting of alternate stacking of
superconducting CuO₂ planes and insulating blocking layers along the c
axis. In the superconducting state, carriers move in the c direction by
tunneling the blocking layers via the Josephson interlayer coupling, and
the superconducting properties of HTSC are strongly affected by the
strength of this coupling. Observation of the Josephson plasma
reflectivity edge is one of the most powerful probes for evaluation of
such interlayer coupling. In general, the c-axis spectra of HTSC
compounds are semiconducting in the normal state, reflecting an
incoherent carrier dynamics. Below T_(c) , however, a restoration of the
coherency occurs and a sharp reflectivity edge appears in the
far-infrared regime.[1, 2] The Josephson plasma frequency
$\omega_{\rm ps}^{c}$ or the c-axis penetration depth λ_(c) =
$c/\omega_{\rm ps}^{c}$, where c denotes the velocity of the light, is a
physical parameter which directly measures the strength of the
interlayer coupling and thus gives direct information on the anisotropy
in the superconducting state which is essential in understanding the
flux-pinning behaviors of HTSC.[3]

Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O_(y) (Bi2212) is the most anisotropic HTSC compounds due
presumably to the thick blocking layers consisting of insulating BiO
double layers. Therefore, $\omega_{\rm ps}^{c}$ is expected to be very
low, far outside the experimentally observable window in the
conventional infrared measurements.[4, 5] Indeed, microwave measurements
have shown an absorption peak in Bi2212 single crystals at less than 10
cm⁻¹ under magnetic fields applied parallel to the c axis, and this peak
has been identified as the Josephson plasma resonance.[6] Recently, we
have found that the anisotropy of Bi2212 in the normal state is
drastically reduced by Pb doping through in-plane (ρ_(g) and ρ_(b)) and
out-of-plane (ρ_(c)) resistivity measurements.[7] For a heavily Pb-doped
Bi_(1.6)Pb_(0.6)Sr_(1.8)CaCu₂O_(y) single crystal with T_(c) = 65 K, the
anisotropy parameter γ² = ρ_(c)/(ρ_(a)ρ_(b))^(1/2)∼ 1.2×10³ was obtained
at 100 K; this value is approximately one order of magnitude smaller
than that of nominally overdoped Bi2212 without Pb, and is comparable to
that of less anisotropic cuprates, such as La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄ (LSCO)
and YBa₂Cu₃O_(y) (YBCO) in the underdoped regime.[8] However, the
measurement of ρ_(c) for such an extremely anisotropic system is subject
to large uncertainty and the effect of Pb substitution is not yet clear.
It is also nontrivial if the reduced anisotropy persists in the
superconducting state.

In the present study, we have carried out the c-axis reflectivity
measurements in the infrared region on a heavily Pb-doped Bi2212 single
crystal. We report here that the Josephson plasma edge can be pushed
into the observable infrared optical frequency region by the Pb doping
even in the extremely anisotropic Bi2212 system.

Bi(Pb)2212 single crystals were grown by the floating zone technique[9,
7] in a feed rod with a nominal cation ratio of Bi:Pb:Sr:Ca:Cu =
1.6:0.6:1.8:1.0:2.0. These cation compositions of the grown crystals
were determined by ICP (inductively coupled plasma) analysis as
Bi:Pb:Sr:CaCu = 1.7₆:0.4₆:1.8₉:1.0;2.0. Thin plate crystals with c axis
along the shortest dimension were picked up from the grown boule and
cleaved to obtain fresh surfaces. The crystals with a typical dimension
of 2× 2×0.1 mm³ were treated at 400 degC for 72 h in a sealed quartz
tube with pure oxygen gas of the effective pressure P = 2.1 atm.
Magnetization measurements using a superconducting quantum interference
device (SQUID) magnetometer showed T_(c)(midpoint) = 65 K with ΔT_(c) <5
K. Since the maximum T_(c) of the Bi(Pb)2212 system is reported to be ∼
96 K [10], this significant decrease of T_(c) is suggestive of carrier
overdoping in the present compound. A mosaic sample, which consists of
ten pieces of these crystals piled up and molded in an epoxy resin, was
prepared and polished along a face parallel to the c axis using alumina
powders. Polarized reflectivity measurements were performed using a
fast-scan Fourier transform spectrometer (Bruker IFS 113v) in the far-
and mid-infrared range (30−4000 cm⁻¹) and at temperatures between 8 and
295 K. Spectra were taken by detecting the reflection from this mosaic
crystal. It should be noted, however, that the reflectance of our sample
unavoidably contains small signals from the surrounding epoxy surface.
We confirmed that the epoxy resin shows rather featureless structure in
its reflectivity with a small absolute value of less than 10

Figure 1 shows the c-axis reflectivity spectra of our Bi(Pb)2212 crystal
at various temperatures. At 295 K, the spectrum has semiconductive
features, i.e., a relatively low reflectivity in the whole frequency
range down to 30 cm⁻¹ with a few pronounced phonon peaks. The phonon
spectrum of the present compound is very similar to that of pure Bi2212
for E_(1c) (Ref. [4]) as seen in the inset of Fig. 1. However, in
contrast to the spectrum for pure Bi2212, the phonons are screened
although still weakly, and a slight rise of the reflectivity toward
lower energy is seen in the frequency region below 50 cm⁻¹. These imply
an existence of the electronic contribution. No appreciable change is
observed in the spectrum down to 75 K except for sharpening of the
phonon peaks until the sample is cooled below T_(c) . An edge structure
develops with lowering temperature, and at 8 K, a sharp reflectivity
edge is observed at around 40 cm⁻¹. From the similarities of the
behavior reported in the c-axis reflectivity of LSCO (Refs. [1, 2]) and
YBCO (Ref. [11]) systems, the observed edge here is associated with the
c-axis plasma mode of superconducting carriers, presumably corresponding
to a Josephson plasmon. Appearance of a sharp edge below T_(c) indicates
that the superconducting gap energy is much larger than this edge energy
(=the screened plasmon energy).

In the present study, we thus successfully observed the Josephson plasma
reflectivity edge in the present Bi-based cuprate which has the largest
electromagnetic anisotropy among the known HTSC compounds. The fact that
the Josephson plasma edge appears in the infrared reflectivity spectrum
is the most convincing evidence for the remarkably reduced anisotropy of
Bi(Pb)2212 in the superconducting state. This feature is quite
consistent with our out-of-plane resistivity measurements for
Bi_(2.1 − x)Pb_(x)Sr_(1.8)CaCu₂O_(y) single crystals in Ref. [7]. The
magnitude of ρ_(c) systematically decreases with increasing Pb content
x, whereas no appreciable change has been observed in ρ_(a) or ρ_(b) by
Pb doping, leading to a rapid decrease of resistivity anisotropy χ² =
ρ_(c)/(ρ_(a)ρ_(b)) [12] with increasing Pb content. Cooper _et al._ have
reported in Ref. [12] the ρ_(c)-T curve of pure Bi2212 single crystal.
From the reported T_(c) and temperature dependence of ρ_(ab) and ρ_(c) ,
we believe that the crystal in Ref. [12] is in the optimally
carrier-doped state. Their pure Bi2212 shows ρ_(c)∼12 Ω cm at 100 K.
This value is by a factor of ∼ 60 larger than that of our heavily
Pb-doped Bi2212 (x = 0.6): ρ_(c) = 0.21 Ω cm at 100 K.

The reflectivity spectra were next transformed into the complex
dielectric function [ϵ(ω) = ϵ₁(ω) + ϵ₂(ω)] by Kramers-Kronig (KK)
analysis. It was necessary to extrapolate the lowest frequency range
between 0 and 30 cm⁻¹ for the KK analyses. In the normal state, we
applied the Hagen-Rubens formula using the c-axis dc resistivity (ρ_(c))
measured in Ref. [7]. On the other hand, in the superconducting state,
it is important to decide how the reflectivity approaches unity. In the
previous study for c-axis spectra of LSCO [2], it was found that the
real part of the dielectric function ϵ₁(ω) in the superconducting state
is well approximated as ϵ₁^(′)(ω) = ϵ_(ω) -
$(\omega_{\rm ph}^{c})^{2}/\omega^{2}$ in the lowest frequency regime.
In the present study, the reflectivity spectrum at 8 K was extrapolated
so that this formula was well fitted above and below the detection limit
(30 cm⁻¹) [13].

Figure 2 shows the real part of the dielectric function ϵ₁(ω) of
Bi(Pb)2212 for E_(1c) at various temperatures. In the normal state (295
K and 100 K), ϵ₁(ω) was positive and almost constant (∼10) below the
lowest phonon band at 90 cm⁻¹, whereas at 8 K it rapidly decreased and
then changed its sign showing a characteristic of the superconducting
state. The reflectivity edge was determined to be 38.4 cm⁻¹ by the zero
crossing point of ϵ₁(ω). This value corresponds to the screened plasma
frequency $\omega_{\rm ph}^{c}$ =
$\omega_{\rm ph}^{c}$/$\sqrt{\epsilon_{\omega}}$ associated with the
superconducting carriers along the c axis. On the other hand, ϵ_(x) =
11.5 and $\omega_{\rm ph}^{c}$ = 126.2 cm⁻¹ (= 2.38×10¹³ s⁻¹) were
obtained from the ϵ₁^(′)(ω) vs ω⁻² plot. The value of ϵ_(x) = 11.5 was
nearly the same as that of pure Bi2212 (ϵ_(x) = 12) in Ref. [4]. The
c-axis penetration depth λ_(c) = c/$\omega_{\rm ph}^{c}$ is then
calculated to be 12.6 μm. For our Pb-doped Bi2212 crystal, we have

Figure 1: c-axis reflectivity spectra of
Bi_(1.4)Pb_(0.6)Sr_(1.8)CaCu₂O_(y) single crystal at various
temperatures. The inset represents the room-temperature spectra of
Bi(Pb)2212 in the present study and pure Bi2212 in Ref. [4].

estimated the in-plane penetration depth from reversible magnetization
measurements under high fields as λ_(ab) = 0.20 μm. This is in good
agreement with the reported value for Pb-doped Bi2212,[14]λ_(ab) =
0.19−0.23 μm. From the measured λ_(ab) value, the superconducting
anisotropy parameter γ_(s) is calculated to be γ_(s)=λ_(c)/λ_(ab)∼ 63.
This value is not so different from the resistivity anisotropy in the
normal state, γ_(n)≡$\sqrt{\rho_{c}}$/ρ_(ab)−34 at 100 K.[7]

Basov _et al.[8]_ reported that the magnitude of λ_(c) intimately
correlates with the ω→0 extrapolated c-axis conductivity (σ_(c)) just
above T_(c) : λ_(c)² is inversely proportional to σ_(c) for a variety of
HTSC compounds, leading to the universal line in λ_(c)² vs σ_(c) plot.
In Fig. 3, we plot λ_(c) and σ_(c) of our Bi(Pb)2212 together with the
data for Bi2212,[5, 12] LSCO,[8] and YBCO (Ref. [8]) with various doping
levels in the literature. The present results just follow the universal
line. Figure 3 also demonstrates a strong dependence of λ_(c) on doping
in the LSCO and YBCO systems. The data points for LSCO and YBCO in Fig.
3 scan the doping range from p = 0.10 to 0.20 and from p ∼ 0.12 to ∼
0.23, respectively.[8] It is also found that the available data for the
Bi2212 system starting from the optimally doped[12] (shown by the closed
diamond) to the present overdoped one (double diamond), span nearly the
same λ_(c)²−σ_(c) range. In this regard, the Pb-doped Bi2212 is heavily
overdoped with p larger by at least 0.10 than that for the optimally
doped sample. However, the T_(c) of our overdoped crystal is still 65 K,
which, if we use the "universal parabola" for T_(c) vs p relation,[16]
would correspond to p only larger by 0.06 than the optimal carrier
density, presumably p∼ 0.16 (T_(c) = 96 K).[10] Estimated p∼ 0.22 in the
present crystal is consistent with the measured values and temperature
dependence of the in-plane resistivity (ρ_(ab)).[7, 17] The magnitude of
ρ_(ab), transformed into the resistance per CuO₂ plane, is comparable to
that for the fully oxygenated YBCO,[18] and the exponent α of the T
dependence (ρ_(ab) ∝T^(α)) is only slightly larger than one (α =
1.2−1.4). Therefore, Pb-doped Bi2212 is indeed overdoped but not heavily
overdoped, and the observed decrease of λ_(c) (or the increase of
$\sigma_{\rm{p}}^{\alpha}$) is more than that expected from the increase
in carrier doping. In addition, the overdoped pure Bi2212 with nearly
the same T_(c)(= 71 K) in Ref. [5] has much longer λ_(c) (= 35 μm)
compared to our Pb-doped Bi2212, λ_(c) = 12.6 μm. It is also difficult
to explain this difference in λ_(c) only taking the carrier doping level
for each crystal into consideration. We speculate that the Pb
substitution would have an additional effect, changing the electronic
structure of the BiO double layers so that to enhance the coupling
between CuO₂ planes.

It seems that the Josephson plasma edge observed in Bi(Pb)2212 is
relatively sharp despite the overdoped state, in contrast to the rather
broadened reflectivity edge in the overdoped La_(1.89)Sr_(0.20)CuO₄
(Refs. [2, 8]) and YBa₂Cu₃O₇.[19] A broadening of the observed c-axis
reflectivity edge is considered as a common feature in the overdoped
HTSC, and this may be due to residual conductivity in the
superconducting gap region. The existence of the residual conductivity
is also suggested in our Bi(Pb)2212 from a finite σ_(c)(ω → 0) in the
superconducting state as will be mentioned later. However, the magnitude
of the c-axis conductivity in the normal state is far smaller compared
to LSCO and YBCO,[2] reflecting the larger anisotropy of Bi-based
cuprates. Therefore, the residual conductivity of Bi2212 in the
superconducting state would be still small even in the overdoped
crystal, resulting in the relatively smaller broadening effect. As a
matter of fact, the edge broadening (∼ 5 cm⁻¹), defined from the width
of a peak in Im[− 1/ϵ(ω)], was much larger than the width of the
Josephson plasma resonance observed for an optimally doped Bi2212 in the
microwave region.[6]

The optical conductivity σ_(c)(ω) spectra are shown in Fig. 4. In the
normal-state spectra at 295 and 100 K, a Drude component is hardly seen
and the phonon peaks dominate down to 100 cm⁻¹, evidencing weak
electronic contribution along the c axis even in the present overdoped
crystal. However, the conductivity below the lowest phonon band (∼ 90
cm⁻¹) is finite, and σ_(c)(ω→ 0) is in good agreement with the dc
resistivity value at 295 and 100 K. This indicates that the relatively
small ρ_(c) and metallic feature of the spectrum are bulk properties,
and not caused by an extrinsic factor such as an imperfection of the
grown crystals. At 8 K, disappearance of a part of spectral weight is
seen in the low-frequency region below ∼ 250 cm⁻¹, and this must be due
to

Figure 3: Correlation between λ_(c) and σ_(c) of Bi(Pb)2212 together
with the data for Bi2212 (Refs. [5] and [12]), LSCO (Ref. [8]), and YBCO
(Ref. [8]). The three lines are guides to the eye, representing
λ_(c)²∝σ_(c)⁻¹ for Bi2212, LSCO, and YBCO systems.

Figure 2: Real part of the dielectric function of
Bi_(1.6)Pb_(0.8)Sr_(1.8)CaCu₂O₅ single crystal at 8, 100, and 295 K
obtained from Kramers-Kronig analysis on the c-axis reflectivity
spectra.

the opening of a superconducting gap. A small but finite conductivity (∼
2 Ω⁻¹ cm⁻¹) remains even in the superconducting state. Thus, the
Pb-doped Bi2212 shares a common feature with the other cuprates in the
overdoped regime.

Finally, we comment on the anomalous bump seen around 400 cm⁻¹ for other
bilayer cuprates. In the previous studies of the c-axis reflectivity
measurements for an underdoped YBCO and the other bilayer cuprates, an
anomalous bump was found to develop at around 400− 450 cm⁻¹ with
decreasing temperature and particularly below T_(c) [11, 20]. In the
overdoped regime of YBCO, however, it was far from clear whether or not
similar feature develops in the c-axis spectrum in the superconducting
state, since the spectrum was dominated by a coherent (Drude) term which
make the feature around 400 cm⁻¹ indiscernible. The overdoped Bi(Pb)2212
is interesting in this respect as it maintains fairly large anisotropy
even in the overdoped regime and hence the electronic contribution is
not large enough to smear out the features around 400−450 cm⁻¹. In Fig.
4, very weak features appear to develop between 400 and 500 cm⁻¹ below
T_(c) [1]. Some of these features might correspond to the 400 cm⁻¹ bump
in the underdoped YBCO [11, 20], but the spectral change is too weak to
conclude whether this anomaly has the same origin as in the YBCO system.

In summary, we have successfully prepared carrier-overdoped Bi-based
cuprates and observed a c-axis Josephson plasma edge in the far-infrared
optical frequency region for the first time. The overdoping was made by
heavily Pb-doping into Bi2212 single crystal and by annealing it in
oxygen atmosphere. The reflectivity edge is pushed up to 40 cm⁻¹ well
above the lower detection limit for the conventional infrared
reflectivity measurement. From the observed Josephson plasma frequency
at 8 K, the c-axis penetration depth λ_(c) = 12.6 μm is estimated. This
λ_(c) value is being reduced by almost one order of magnitude compared
with that for the optimally doped pure Bi2212. The plasma frequency or
λ_(c) is well correlated with the value of the dc conductivity just
above T_(c) and follows a universal relationship between λ_(c) and
σ_(c)(T_(c)). We find that the reduction of λ_(c) is more than that
expected from the increase of carrier doping in the CuO₂ planes and
hence the Pb doping must have an additional effect in reducing the
anisotropy in the Bi-based cuprates.

We would like to thank H. Eisaki for fruitful discussions. This study
was supported, in part, by Core Research for Evolutional Science and
Technology (CREST) Program of Japan Science and Technology Corporation
(JST).

## References

* [1] K. Tamasaku _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **69**, 1455 (1992). * [2]
S. Uchida _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **53**, 14 558 (1996). * [3] K. Kishio,
_Coherence in High Temperature Superconductors_ (World Scientific,
Singapore, 1996), pp. 212−225. * [4] S. Tajima _et al._, Phys. Rev. B
**48**, 16 164 (1993). * [5] H. Shibata and A. Matsuda, Phys. Rev. B
**59**, R11 672 (1999). * [6] O.K.C. Tsui _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**73**, 724 (1994); Y. Matsuda _et al._, _ibid._**75**, 4512 (1995);
(private communication). * [7] T. Motohashi _et al._, Phys. Rev. B
**59**, 14 080 (1999). * [8] S. Uchida and K. Tamasaku, Physica C
**293**, 1 (1997). * [9] I. Chong _et al._, Science **276**, 770
(1997). * [10] J. Shimoyama _et al._, Physica C **281**, 69 (1997). *
[11] C.C. Homes _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **71**, 1645 (1993). * [12]
J.R. Cooper _et al._, Nature (London) **343**, 444 (1990). * [13] In the
spectrum at 8 K (Fig. 1), reflectivity reaches ∼ 0.8 at the lowest
frequency in our measurement; the edge structure has been observed near
unity. We have confirmed that the extrapolation in the lowest frequency
range does not affect the dielectric function via KK analysis in the
superconducting state. * [14] O. Waldmann _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **53**,
11 825 (1996); J. Shimoyama _et al._, _Advances in Superconductivity X_
(Springer-Verlag, Tokyo, 1998), pp. 279−284. * [15] D.N. Basov _et al._,
Phys. Rev. B **50**, 3511 (1994). * [16] M.R. Presland _et al._, Physica
C **176**, 95 (1991). * [17] T. Motohashi _et al._, _Advances in
Superconductivity XI_ (Springer-Verlag, Tokyo, 1999), pp. 97−100. * [18]
T. Ito _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **70**, 3995 (1993). * [19] J.
Schutzmann _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **73**, 174 (1994). * [20] J.
Schutzmann _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **52**, 13 665 (1995).

Figure 4: c-axis optical conductivity spectra of
Bi_(1.6)Pb_(0.6)Sr_(1.8)CaCu₂O_(y) single crystal at 8, 100, and 295 K
obtained from Kramers-Kronig analysis on the c-axis reflectivity
spectra.
