Three-dimensional nature of normal and superconducting states in BaNi₂P₂
single crystals with the ThCr₂Si₂-type structure

Y. Tomioka

Nano Electronics Research Institute (NeRI), National Institute of
Advanced Industrial Science and Technology (AIST), Tsukuba 305-8562,
Japan

S. Ishida

Nano Electronics Research Institute (NeRI), National Institute of
Advanced Industrial Science and Technology (AIST), Tsukuba 305-8562,
Japan

M. Nakajima

Nano Electronics Research Institute (NeRI), National Institute of
Advanced Industrial Science and Technology (AIST), Tsukuba 305-8562,
Japan JST, Transformative Research-Project on Iron Pnictides (TRIP), 5
Sanbancho, chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 102-0075, Japan

T. Ito

Nano Electronics Research Institute (NeRI), National Institute of
Advanced Industrial Science and Technology (AIST), Tsukuba 305-8562,
Japan

H. Kito

Nano Electronics Research Institute (NeRI), National Institute of
Advanced Industrial Science and Technology (AIST), Tsukuba 305-8562,
Japan

A. Iyo

Nano Electronics Research Institute (NeRI), National Institute of
Advanced Industrial Science and Technology (AIST), Tsukuba 305-8562,
Japan

H. Eisaki

Nano Electronics Research Institute (NeRI), National Institute of
Advanced Industrial Science and Technology (AIST), Tsukuba 305-8562,
Japan JST, Transformative Research-Project on Iron Pnictides (TRIP), 5
Sanbancho, chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 102-0075, Japan

S. Uchida

Department of Physics, University of Tokyo, 7-3-1 Hongo Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo
113-8656, Japan

2 March 200929 April 2009

###### Abstract

Normal and superconducting states of BaNi₂P₂ single crystals
($T_{\rm C}$∼ 2.4 K) have been studied. Anisotropy of resistivity is
comparable with that of upper critical fields, indicating the effective
mass estimated in the normal state is nearly the same as that in the
superconducting state. From magnetization hysteresis with a weak vortex
pinning, lower critical fields are estimated. Hall effect is explained
by a two-carrier model consistent with a multiple-band with both hole
and electron characters. It has been proved that BaNi₂P₂ is an
anisotropic three-dimensional intermetallic superconductor.

pacs: 10.1103/PhysRevB.79.132506 PACS number(s): 74.70.Dd, 74.25.Dw,
74.25.Fy, 74.25.Ha Present address: ]Department of Physics, University
of Tokyo, 7-3-1 Hongo Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 113-8656, Japan

Recently, a new class of high-temperature superconductivity has been
discovered in the iron-arsenide layered compounds with the ZrCuSiAs
structure, i.e., oxypnictides, LaFeAs(O_(1 − x)F), [12] and those with
the ThCr₂Si₂ structure, Ba_(1 − x)K_(x)Fe_(2 − x)As_(2 − x). [3] In the
fluorine-free and oxygen-deficient compound, NdFeAsO_(1 − y) (0.3 ≤ y ≤
0.8), the critical temperature, $T_{\rm C}$ becomes as high as 53 K. [4]
Besides these iron-arsenide compounds, pioneering superconductors have
earlier been found, although the critical temperatures are lower. [5, 6,
7, 8] As described in Ref. [8], a superconducting transition occurs in
the nickel-based phosphide, BaNi₂P₂ ($T_{\rm C}$∼ 3 K), the crystal
structure of which is the same as BaFe₂As₂, the parent compound for
high-temperature superconductivity. Similarly to cuprates, the newly
discovered iron- or nickel-based superconductors have two-dimensional
crystal structures, and the carrier is doped from the adjacent layers.
Calculated band structures of LaOFeAs and LaOFeP, [9] on the other hand,
indicate that the Fermi level is crossed by five bands with mainly Fe
character, which is different from a single band feature in cuprates.
For BaFe₂As₂, as described in Ref. [10], the Fermi surface is similar to
that of LaOFeAs.

In this Brief Report, we report the normal and superconducting states of
BaNi₂P₂ single crystals prepared by the high-pressure synthesis method
using the cubic-anvil-type apparatus (Riken CAP-07). [4] The dimensions
of the crystals used for the in-plane and out-of-plane resistivity
measurements are about 0.50 × 0.13 × 0.013 mm³ and 0.63 × 0.56 × 0.025
mm³, respectively, with the shortest edge parallel to the c axis. For
the out-of-plane resistivity, the current electrodes on both surfaces of
the crystal are drawn in a shape of annular ring with use of gold paste.
The voltage electrodes are at the center of the ring. [11] Resistivity
in magnetic fields has been measured in a cryostat equipped with a
superconducting magnet. For Hall-effect measurement, the gold wires are
attached to a crystal through the electrodes made by gold paste, and the
magnetic field is applied perpendicular to the plane with the current in
plane. The zero-field-cooled (ZFC) and field-cooled (FC) magnetization
has been measured by a superconducting quantum interference device
(SQUID) magnetometer (MPMS, Quantum Design Inc.). After the crystal is
cooled down to the lowest temperature (1.76 K) in zero field, the
magnetic field is applied, and the ZFC magnetization is measured with
increasing temperature. Subsequently, the FC magnetization is measured
with decreasing temperature in a same magnetic field.

Figure 1 shows temperature profiles of the in-plane, $\rho_{\rm l}$, and
out-of-plane, ρ_(⊥), resistivities of the BaNi₂P₂ single crystals,
respectively. The value of $\rho_{\rm l}$ (ρ_(⊥)) at 300 K is about
80(500) μΩ cm, and as shown in the inset, the residual resistivity is
4.15(14.4) μΩ cm, which leads to that the residual resistivity ratio
[ρ(300 K)/ρ(3 K)] is 18.7 (34.3) for in plane (out of plane). The
anisotropy of resistivity, ρ_(⊥)/$\rho_{\rm l}$ is weakly dependent on
temperature, and it is ∼6.3 at 300 K much smaller than that reported for
the nondepar-sneide compounds, AFe₂As₂ (A= Ba, Sr, and Ca). [12, 13, 14]
For T≤ 25 K $\rho_{\rm l}$ is empirically fitted by ρ=ρ₀+AT^(n) with ρ₀
=4.15 μΩ cm, A=7.78 × 10⁻⁸μΩ cm K^(−n), and n=5. As shown in this
figure, temperature dependence of both in-plane and out-of-plane
resistivities seems to cross over from linear at high temperatures to
power law, T^(n) at low temperatures. A detailed analysis will be
published in Ref. [15]. As

Figure 1: (Color online) Temperature profiles of the in-plane,
$\rho_{\rm l}$, and out-of-plane, ρ_(⊥), resistivity for the BaNi₂P₂
single crystals, respectively. Inset shows the blow up below 40 K.

temperature decreases, a superconducting state becomes prevailing. The
critical temperature as a midpoint of the transition is 2.51 and 2.31 K
for in plane and out of plane, respectively. Although from Fig. 1 the
anisotropy ratio is weakly dependent on temperature, the scattering
mechanism seems to be nearly common for both directions, and the
anisotropy seems to originate from anisotropic mass
($\rho_{\perp}/\rho_{\rm{l}}\!\sim\!m_{\perp}^{*}/m_{\rm{l}}^{*}$).
Figure 1 indicates that a rather usual electron-phonon scattering seems
to be dominant for the resistivity of the BaNi₂P₂ single crystal.

Figure 2 shows the magnetic field dependence of Hall resistivity, ρ_(xy)
of a BaNi₂P₂ single crystal taken at several temperatures. In Fig. 2,
nearly linear dependence of ρ_(xy) on magnetic fields is seen at high
temperatures, while nonlinear behavior is seen at low temperatures
(T  < 50 K). Temperature variations in R_(H) determined from
$d\rho_{xy}/{\rm{d}}H$ at H  =  0 are indicated in the inset. The R_(H)
estimated is negative in the magnitude of 10⁻⁴ cm³/C, and the carrier
numbers, n is estimated to be in the magnitude of 10²² cm⁻³ from a
relation that R_(H)  =   − 1/(en), which is equivalent to 3-5 electrons
per a formula unit of BaNi₂P₂.

A multiple Fermi surface with electron and hole characters could partly
cancel out the Hall effect. As described in Ref. [16], two electron
surfaces and two hole ones are found by de Haas-van Alphen (dHvA)
oscillation, and their carrier numbers are listed in Table 1. In a
two-carrier model, Hall resistivity is expressed by an equation that
[17]

$$\begin{array}{l}\rho_{xy}=-(1/e)H[n_{e}\mu_{\rm{e}}^{2}-n_{\rm{h}}\mu_{\rm{h }}^{2}+(n_{\rm{e}}-n_{\rm{h}})\\ \times\mu_{\rm{e}}^{2}\mu_{\rm{h}}^{2}H^{2}][(n_{\rm{e}}\mu_{\rm{e}}+n_{\rm{h}} \mu_{\rm{h}})^{2}+(n_{\rm{e}}-n_{\rm{h}})^{2}\mu_{\rm{e}}^{2}\mu_{\rm{h}}^{2}H ^{2}]\end{array}$$
(1)

where $n_{\rm{e}}$ and $\mu_{\rm{e}}$ ($n_{\rm{h}}$ and
$\  from Eq. (1) with \(n_{\rm e}(n_{\rm h})$ = 6.52 x 1021(3.90 x 1020)
cm-3, and $\mu_{\rm e}$ ($\mu_{\rm h}$) = 189(688) cm2 V-1 s-1
[$n_{\rm h}$/$n_{\rm e}$ = 0.060 and $\mu_{\rm h}$/$\mu_{\rm e}$ =3.65],
which are obtained by fitting ρ_(xy) at 5 K. The estimated $n_{\rm h}$
is comparable with that of band 25 in Ref. [16].

We have also measured the magnetoresistance (MR),
[$\rho_{\rm i}(H)\!-\!\rho_{\rm i}(0)$]/$\rho_{\rm i}(0)$ at 5 K for
magnetic field perpendicular to the plane (H⊥ plane) and the transport
current in plane. It has been indicated that the MR is positive and
almost linearly dependent on H², the magnitude of which is comparable
with the value expected from the parameters obtained from the
field-dependent Hall resistivity. The detail of the analysis is
published in Ref. [15]. Figure 2 thus indicates that transport
properties of BaNi₂P₂ are composed of not only electrons but also holes
with smaller carrier numbers and higher mobility, being consistent with
the results described in Ref. [16].

In Fig. 3, are shown temperature variations of the magnetization
hysteresis (M-H curves) for magnetic field parallel (H∥ plane) (a) and
perpendicular to the plane (H⊥ plane) (b), respectively. The inset of
Fig. 3(a) indicates the ZFC and FC magnetization for H∥ plane taken at
10 Oe. In the inset, the magnitude of the ZFC magnetization at the
lowest temperature exceeds perfect diamagnetism (dashed line) due to a
demagnetizing effect,[18] and that of the FC magnetization reaches about
56

As shown in the M-H curves for both H∥ and ⊥ plane, the discrepancies
between the field-increasing and decreasing processes are not
pronounced, indicating a rather weak vortex pinning. In the present
study, the lower critical field, $H_{\rm c1}$ is approximated from the
penetration field, $H_{\rm p}$ at which an extrapolation of perfect
diamagnetism, M = − H/{4π(1 − N)} (N being demagnetizing factors[18])
meets a level of the minimum magnetization,[19] as shown in the inset of
Fig. 3(b), although it might overestimate lower critical field. The
demagnetizing factor is 0.11 (0.7) for H∥ plane (H∥ plane), which is
estimated from the initial magnetization vs H at $H\!\ll\!H_{\rm P}$.
From a relation that $H_{\rm c1}\!=\!H_{\rm p}/(1\!-\!N)$,[19] the lower
critical field is estimated at 52 (82) Oe for H∥ plane (H⊥ plane) at T=2
K, which are comparable with the results in the earlier work.[8]

Figure 4 shows temperature profiles of $\rho_{\rm i}$ normalized at 5 K
for H∥ plane (a) and ⊥ plane (b) of the same crystal used for the
measurement of in-plane resistivity in Fig. 1. In Figs. 4(a) and 4(b),
the transport current is perpendicular to field (H⊥I). In these figures,
a broadening of the resistive transition with increase in field is not
pronounced, and the transition temperature, $T_{\rm C}$(H) may be
defined as the midpoint of the resistive transition. A state with finite
resistivity at T =1.6 K for H∥ plane (⊥ plane) starts to be seen at
H ≅ 600 (300) Oe. A rather usual resistive transition without broadening
as shown in these figures is also seen in Sr_(0.6)K_(0.4)Fe₂As₂ with
small anisotropy of resistivity[13] although both $T_{\rm C}$ and
critical fields of Sr_(0.6)K_(0.4)Fe₂As₂ are much higher than those of
BaNi₂P₂.

In Fig. 4(c), with use of the field dependence of $T_{\rm C}$(H) as
shown in Figs. 4(a) and 4(b), are indicated the upper critical field for
H∥ plane, $H_{\rm c2}^{\bot}$ and that for H⊥ plane,
$H_{\rm c2}^{\bot}$. In Fig. 4(c), the lower critical fields for both
directions are also indicated. From the relation that $H_{\rm c2}(0)$
=0.69[$H_{\rm c2}(7)/{\rm d}T$]${}_{\rm TM\cap}$$T_{\rm C}$,[20]$H_{\rm c2}^{\bot}(0)$
($H_{\rm c2}^{\bot}(0)$) is estimated about 1410 (650) Oe. From the
equation that $H_{\rm c2}^{\bot}(0)$ ($H_{\rm c2}^{\bot}(0)$) =
$\phi_{0}/(2\pi\xi_{\rm i}^{2})$
($\phi_{0}/(2\pi\xi_{\rm i}^{2}\xi_{\rm i})$), furthermore, the in-plane
(out-of-plane) coherence length $\xi_{\rm i}$ (ξ_(⊥)) is estimated about
710(330) A. The ratio, $H_{\rm c2}^{\bot}(0)/H_{\rm c2}^{\bot}(0)$
(=($m_{\bot}^{*}/m_{\rm p}^{*}$)^(1/2)) is about 2.2, which is
comparable with that of resistivity,
$(\rho_{\bot}/\rho_{\rm i})^{1/2}\!\sim\!2.5$. These results indicate
that BaNi₂P₂ single crystal is a rather conventional type II
superconductor with three-dimensional nature.

Band calculation of BaNi₂P₂ shows that multiple bands cross the Fermi
level and dispersion exists both along in-plane and out-of-plane
directions.[21] Although there is at present no publication on the Fermi
surface of the compound, we may expect similar Fermi surface as that of
BaFe₂As₂ (Ref. [10]) that has more dispersion along the out-of-plane
direction than that of LaOFeAs.[10] Therefore, three-dimensional nature
of BaNi₂P₂ may be a natural consequence.

In summary, we have studied the normal and superconducting states of
BaNi₂P₂ single crystals prepared by the

Figure 4: (Color online) Temperature profiles of the in-plane
resistivity normalized at 5 K for the magnetic field (a) parallel and
(b) perpendicular to plane with the transport current perpendicular to
field. (c) The lower (closed squares) and upper critical fields (closed
circles) of BaNi₂P₂ single crystals for both magnetic field parallel and
perpendicular to plane.

high-pressure synthesis method. Temperature dependence of resistivity is
nearly the same both for the in-plane and out-of-plane directions, and
the ratio of effective mass,
$(m_{\rm r}^{\perp}/m_{\rm r}^{\perp})^{1/2}$ estimated from the
anisotropy of resistivity is ∼2.5. The negative Hall coefficient in the
magnitude of 10⁻⁴ cm³/C and the nonlinear field dependence of Hall
resistivity at low temperatures are explained by a two-carrier model.
_M-H_ curves in the superconducting state show small hysteresis,
characteristic for a weak vortex pinning, and the lower critical fields
are estimated. From the resistive transition in magnetic fields, the
upper critical field is estimated as $H_{\rm c2}^{\parallel}(0)$
($H_{\rm c2}^{\perp}(0)$) ∼ 1410(650) Oe for H parallel (perpendicular)
to the plane. The in-plane (out-of-plane) coherence length is
$\xi_{\rm l}$ (ξ_(⊥)) ∼ 710(330) A. The ratio of effective mass from the
upper critical fields is about 2.2, which is comparable to that obtained
in the normal state. It has been proved in present study that the
BaNi₂P₂ compound is a three-dimensional anisotropic superconductor,
which may be in contrast to superconductivity with higher $T_{\rm C}$ of
the hole-doped AFe₂As₂ (_A_ = Ba, Sr, and Ca) with the same crystal
structure.

We would like to acknowledge H. Aoki, K. Kuroki, S. Onari, and I. Hase
for stimulus discussions.

## References

* [1] Y. Kamihara, T. Watanabe, M. Hirano and H. Hosono, J. Am. Chem.
Soc. **130**, 3296 (2008). * [2] H. Takahashi, K. Igawa, K. Arii, Y.
Kamihara, M. Hirano, and H. Hosono, Nature (London) **453**, 376
(2008). * [3] M. Rotter, M. Tegel, and D. Johrendt, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**101**, 107006 (2008). * [4] H. Kito, H. Eisaki, and A. Iyo, J. Phys.
Soc. Jpn. **77**, 063707 (2008). * [5] Y. Kamihara, H. Hiramatsu, M.
Hirano, R. Kawamura, H. Yanagi, T. Kamiya, and H. Hosono, J. Am. Chem.
Soc. **128**, 10012 (2006). * [6] T. Watanabe, H. Yanagi, T. Kamiya, Y.
Kamihara, H. Hiramatsu, M. Hirano, and H. Hosono, Inorg. Chem. **46**,
7719 (2007). * [7] T. Watanabe, H. Yanagi, Y. Kamihara, T. Kamiya, M.
Hirano, and H. Hosono, Inorg. Chem. **46**, 7719 (2007). * [8] T. Mine,
H. Yanagi, T. Kamiya, Y. Kamihara, M. Hirano, and H. Hosono, Solid State
Commun. **147**, 111 (2008). * [9] V. Vildosola, L. Pourovskii, R.
Arita, S. Biermann, and A. Georges, Phys. Rev. B **78**, 064518
(2008). * [10] I. A. Nekrasov, Z. V. Pchelkina, and M. V. Sadovskii,
JETP Lett. **88**, 144 (2008). * [11] T. Motohashi, Y. Nakayama, T.
Fujita, K. Kitazawa, J. Shimoyama, and K. Kishio, Phys. Rev. B **59**,
14080 (1999). * [12] X. F. Wang, T. Wu, G. Wu, H. Chen, Y. L. Xie, J. J.
Ying, Y. J. Yan, R. H. Liu, and X. H. Chen, Phys. Rev. Lett. **102**,
117005 (2009). * [13] G. F. Chen, Z. Li, J. Dong, G. Li, W. Z. Hu, X. D.
Zhang, X. H. Song, P. Zheng, N. L. Wang, and J. L. Luo, Phys. Rev. B
**78**, 224512 (2008). * [14] G. Wu, H. Chen, T. Wu, Y. L. Xie, Y. J.
Yan, R. H. Liu, X. F. Wang, J. J. Ying, and X. H. Chen, J. Phys.:
Condens. Matter **20**, 422201 (2008). * [15] S. Ishida, M. Nakajima, K.
Miyazawa, H. Kito, Y. Tomioka, T. Ito, A. Iyo, H. Eisaki, and S. Uchida,
Proceedings of the 21st International Symposium on Superconductivity
(ISS 2008), Tsukuba, 2008, edited by K. Takita and Y. Yamada (Elsevier
B. V., Amsterdam), Physica C (to be published). * [16] T. Terashima, M.
Kimata, H. Satsukawa, A. Harada, K. Hazama, M. Imai, S. Uji, H. Kito, A.
Iyo, H. Eisaki, and H. Harima, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **78**, 033706
(2009). * [17] J.-P. Jan, N. L. Martin, and A. Wenger, Phys. Rev. B
**9**, 1377 (1974). * [18] J. A. Osborn, Phys. Rev. **67**, 351
(1945). * [19] H. Kiessig, U. Esmann and W. Wiethaup, Phys. Lett.
**71**A, 467 (1979). * [20] N. R. Werthamer, E. Helfand, and P. C.
Hohenberg, Phys. Rev. **147**, 295 (1966). * [21] I. B. Shameem Banu, M.
Rajagopalan, M. Yousuf, and P. Shenbagazaman, J. Alloys Compd. **288**,
88 (1999).
