# Upper critical field of NaFe_(1 − x)Co_(x)As superconductors

S. Ghannadzadeh

s.ghannadzadeh1@physics.ox.ac.uk Clarendon Laboratory, Department of
Physics, University of Oxford, Parks Road, Oxford OX1 3PU, United
Kingdom

J. D. Wright

Clarendon Laboratory, Department of Physics, University of Oxford, Parks
Road, Oxford OX1 3PU, United Kingdom

F. R. Foronda

Clarendon Laboratory, Department of Physics, University of Oxford, Parks
Road, Oxford OX1 3PU, United Kingdom

S. J. Blundell

Clarendon Laboratory, Department of Physics, University of Oxford, Parks
Road, Oxford OX1 3PU, United Kingdom

S. J. Clarke

Department of Chemistry, University of Oxford, South Parks Road, Oxford
OX1 3QR, United Kingdom

P. A. Goddard

Department of Physics, University of Oxford, Parks Road, Oxford OX1 3PU,
United Kingdom

###### Abstract

The upper critical field of NaFe_(1 − x)Co_(x)As was measured from x = 0
to x = 0.08, with the magnetic field applied parallel (H_(c2)¹) and
normal (H_(c2)¹) to the planes. The data were fitted using one-band and
two-band models. The orbital and paramagnetic components of the upper
critical field were extracted for H_(c2)¹, which we find to be strongly
dominated by paramagnetic pair breaking. In the parent compound the
paramagnetic limit is equal to the value expected by BCS theory.
However, substitution of Fe by Co leads to an enhancement above the BCS
limit by a factor of approximately 1.6. In the overdoped region, we
observe a significant convex curvature in H_(c2)¹ at low temperatures,
which we attribute to the two-band nature of the superconductivity and
the asymmetry between the two bands. Additionally, we discuss the
behavior of critical field anisotropy, coherence length ξ, and the
penetration depth λ.

2014 10.1103/PhysRevB.89.054502 PACS number(s): 74.25.Op, 74.70.Xa,
74.25.Dw, 74.25.N- + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL REVIEW B **89**,
054502 (2014)

## I Introduction

The discovery of the superconductor LaO_(1 − x)F_(x)FeAs [1] and the
extended Fe-pnictide superconductor family with critical temperatures
[2] of up to 56 K has generated great interest and triggered huge
efforts towards unmasking the underlying superconducting state. Theories
for Cooper-pair symmetry range from conventional s⁺-wave pairing [3], to
spin-fluctuation mediated s^(±) pairing with a π phase change in the
order parameter [4], to triplet superconductivity caused by
ferromagnetic fluctuations [5], to d-wave pairing [6]. An important part
of the experimental effort to verify or disprove such theories is
measurement of the upper critical field H_(c2), which is a fundamental
property of type-II superconductors. Studying the temperature dependence
of H_(c2) and the interplay between the various pair-breaking mechanisms
may reveal the underlying pair-forming interaction. Furthermore, the
critical field can be used to extract other fundamental properties such
as the coherence length ξ and the London penetration depth λ. The upper
critical field and its anisotropy can also shed light on the possible
multiband nature of the superconductivity, and are sensitive to the
dimensionality and the underlying electronic structure of the system [7,
8].

In this paper, we study the upper critical field of the tenary "111"
arsenide superconductor NaFe_(1 − x)Co_(x)As. In stoichiometric NaFeAs,
the superconducting phase coexists with an antiferromagnetic (AFM) phase
which is stabilized by the delocalized Fe d-band electrons [9, 10]. This
AFM phase is also preceded by a structural transition from a tetragonal
to orthorhombic structure [9], similar to "1111" and "122" systems [11].
The evolution of the magnetic and superconducting states with the
addition of Co has been explored through low-field susceptibility,
neutron scattering and x-ray diffraction [12], as well as muon-spin
relaxation [10, 12] and heat capacity [13] measurements. The addition of
Co causes a rapid suppression of the magnetic phase and the structural
distortion, leading to the destruction of antiferromagnetism at
x ≈ 0.025[10]. Substitution by Co above 3

Until now there has been little exploration of the critical-field
behavior of this system. Recently there has been a critical-field
measurement of NaFe_(1 − x)Co_(x)As with x = 0.025, limited to low
fields and temperatures near the transition temperature T_(c)[19]. Here
we investigate the upper critical field of NaFe_(1 − x)Co_(x)As up to 45
T, across the whole phase diagram from the underdoped to overdoped
regime, including the parent compound. We find that a multiband model is
required to fully reproduce the critical-field behavior, with the fitted
coupling values being insensitive to the pairing symmetry. Moreover we
find the in-plane critical field to be paramagnetically limited, being
enhanced over the BCS value in doped samples by a combination of
spin-orbit and strong-coupling effects.

## II Experimental details

Single crystals of NaFe_(1 − x)Co_(x)As were synthesized using the
self-flux method. Freshly cut pieces of Na were mixed with ground As in
a 1:1 molar ratio and heated in a 9 mm Nb tube (sealed under argon) to
300 degC for six hours. The resulting black powder of overall
composition NaAs was then ground with Fe_(1 − x)Co_(x) mixture in the
ratio NaAs:Fe_(1 − x)Co_(x)= 2:1. This was then placed into an 8 mm
alumina crucible, itself then placed into a second sealed Nb tube, and
this in turn sealed in an evacuated silica ampule to prevent the
oxidation of Nb. The ampule was then heated to 900 degC at a rate of ∼1
degC/min before being slowly cooled to 400 degC at a rate of 5 degC/hr,
at which point it was cooled rapidly to room temperature. The resulting
crystals were around 1 x 1 x 0.1 mm3 in dimension and could be easily
removed from the flux mechanically. The growth procedure used here was
found to be highly robust: The prereaction of Na and As minimized the
reaction of Na with the alumina crucible, and sealing the crucible in Nb
prevented any sublimed Na from attacking the silica ampule. X-ray
diffraction measurements were carried out using an Oxford Diffraction
SuperNova, which showed that no detectable impurity phases were present.
Magnetic susceptibility data returned values of $T_{\rm c}$ in agreement
with those previously published for each composition [10, 12]. The data
were consistent with a superconducting volume fraction of less than 20

Footnote 3: One usually draws a linear extrapolation of the transition
curvature, and sees where it crosses the normal state line to find
$H_{\rm c2}$ (Ref. [72]). In order to be more systematic, we define
$H_{\rm c2}$ as the peak in ${\rm d}^{2}f/\,{\rm d}H^{2}$. Both methods
give similar results.

$H_{\rm c2}$ was measured in pulsed magnetic fields at the Nicholas
Kurti Magnetic Field Laboratory, UK. The proximity detector oscillator
technique was used, in which the sample is placed inside a resonator
coil and the resonance frequency is monitored as a function of field and
temperature [20, 21]. This frequency depends strongly on the sample
skin/penetration depth, and so, due to the difference between the
superconducting penetration depth and normal state skin depth, the
superconducting-normal state phase transition can be seen as a large
change in the resonant frequency at the critical temperature or field.
One can find the upper critical field $H_{\rm c2}$, as opposed to the
irreversibility field, by setting $H_{\rm c2}$ to be the field at which
the frequency (at $T<T_{\rm c}$) matches that of the normal state at
$T>T_{\rm c}$ [for example see Fig. 1(b)].1 Phase transitions determined
by this technique have been shown to be consistent with those measured
by traditional resistive contact techniques [22]. The critical field was
measured with the magnetic field applied parallel ($H_{\rm c2}^{\perp}$)
or normal ($H_{\rm c2}^{\perp}$) to the Fe-As planes. The samples were
covered with dried Apiezon N grease to prevent sample degradation. It
was found that sample degradation leads to a noticeable change in
$T_{\rm c}$ and a broadening of the transition, with the parent compound
being the most sensitive. Therefore $T_{\rm c}$ and the shape of
transition were monitored carefully to detect sample degradation. We
observed no heating in the pulsed magnetic-field measurements.2

Footnote 2: Heating can arise due to the high ${\rm d}B/{\rm d}T$. We
checked for heating by monitoring $H_{\rm c2}$ as the pulsed width was
changed. We observed no change in $H_{\rm c2}$ for pulse widths above 10
ms.

## III Results

The upper critical fields for NaFe_(1 − x)Co_(x)As with 0

## IV Discussion

The upper critical field is determined by two independent mechanisms,
one of which is the Clogston-Chandrasekhar

Figure 1: (Color online) (a) Phase diagram showing the superconducting
phase as measured in this paper, together with the antiferromagnetic and
the structural transitions (Ref. [10]). (b) Resonance frequency for
x = 0.02, at different temperatures and with the applied field parallel
to the planes. The arrowed numbers indicate the temperature. The
superconducting transition is seen as a drop in frequency (see main
text). Inset: profile of a typical magnetic-field pulse.

spin paramagnetism [23]. The spin paramagnetism reduces the free energy
of the normal state, thus in effect reducing the superconducting energy
gap. The paramagnetic (PM) limit is defined as
$\mu_{0}H_{c2}^{\rm pm}(0)=\Delta/(\sqrt{g}\mu_{B})$, where Δ is the
zero-temperature energy gap and g is the g factor. In the case of
isotropic BCS s-wave pairing with g = 2, this reduces to
$H_{\rm BCS}^{\rm pm}(0)\approx 1.84T_{\rm c}$. However, this weak BCS
coupling can underestimate the actual paramagnetic limit. The critical
field can be enhanced by an increase in Δ, for example by strong
electronic interactions giving
$H_{c2}^{\rm pm}=(1+\lambda_{\rm sc})H_{\rm BCS}^{\rm pm}$
($\lambda_{\rm sc}$ is the strong-coupling coefficient), or by
spin-orbit coupling, resulting in g < 2. Additionally, any spin-orbit or
spin-flip scattering destroys spin as a good quantum number [24] and
leads to depairing of the Cooper pair, thus bringing the spin
paramagnetism of the superconducting and normal states closer together
and reducing the limiting effect of paramagnetism on the critical field
[24; 25; 26]. The second mechanism which limits the critical field is
orbital pair breaking, which is related to the creation of Abrikosov
vortex lines and superconducting currents around the vortex core,
reducing the superconducting condensation energy. In general H_(c2) is
influenced by both orbital and spin-paramagnetic effects (although
usually one tends to dominate), and the relative importance of these
effects can be measured by the Maki parameter
$\alpha=\sqrt{2}H_{c2}^{\rm orb}/H_{c2}^{\rm pm}$[24; 26].

Angle resolved photoemission spectroscopy measurements (ARPES) [27; 28;
29] and band structure calculations [30; 31] show NaFe_(1 − x)Co_(x)As
to be a quasi-two-dimensional superconductor with a Fermi surface
consisting of collinear warped columns. In such systems, application of
magnetic field parallel to the superconducting planes causes the
electrons to form open orbits along the cylinders [32], which leads to a
negligible orbital effect and significant enhancement of the orbital
critical field above what would be expected for a more isotropic
superconductor. In contrast, application of field normal to the
superconducting planes forms closed electron orbits within the Fermi
sheets and leads to creation of vortices [33], thus reducing the orbital
limit [34]. Therefore in general H_(c2)^(∥) > H_(c2)^(⊥), as is the case
for NaFe_(1 − x)Co_(x)As (see Fig. 2).

In this paper we assume that the samples are in the dirty limit, where
mean free path l≪ coherence length ξ. This is justified by the low
residual resistivity ratio (as low as 4) [19], the low superconducting
volume fraction (<20

Figure 2: (Color online) The upper critical field of
NaFe_(1 − x)Co_(x)As, where the percentage denotes the amount of Co
substitution. Red triangles and blue circles represent H_(c2) with the
field applied parallel and normal to the Fe-As planes, respectively. The
solid lines are fits using the one-band model, and the dashed lines are
fits using the two-band model (see text) with
λ₁₁ = λ₂₂ = 1,λ₁₁λ₂₂ − λ₁₂λ₂₁ = 0.5. Inset: picture of a NaFeAs sample.

mean free paths, for example I_(∥) ≈ 1.8 nm (ξ_(∥) ≈ 2.2 nm) at optimal
doping. Values for I_(⊥) (ξ_(⊥)) would be smaller (larger). Furthermore,
due to the availability of critical field models for weakly coupled
superconductors, we will assume that the system is weakly coupled.
However, as shown later strong electronic interactions may also be
present. We note that NaFe_(1 − x)Co_(x)As heat capacity data [13, 38]
may be understood using Eliashberg theory in the strong-coupling limit,
albeit with significant modifications [38].

### Single-band model

One model for the upper critical field of a superconductor is the
single-band Werthamer-Helfand-Hohenberg (WHH) model in the dirty limit
[24]. This model includes the effects of paramagnetism, orbital
pair-breaking, and spin-orbit scattering; however it neglects any strong
coupling. $H_{\rm c2}$ is given implicitly via

$$\ln\frac{1}{t} = \sum_{-\infty}^{\infty}\left\{\frac{1}{|2v+1|}\right.$$
$$\left.-\left[|2v+1|+\frac{h}{t}+\frac{(\alpha ht)^{2}}{|2v+1|+(h +\lambda_{\rm so})/t}\right]^{-1}\right\},$$

where $t=T/T_{\rm c}$,
$h=4H_{\rm c2}/\left[\pi^{2}T_{\rm c}({\rm d}H_{\rm c2}/{\rm d}T)_{T=T_{\rm c}}\right]$,
v is the summing index, and
$\lambda_{\rm so}=\hbar/(3\pi k_{\rm B}T_{\rm c}\tau_{\rm so})$ accounts
for the spin-orbit and spin-flip scattering with $\tau_{\rm so}$ as the
mean free scattering time [25]. The results of fits to the WHH model are
shown in Fig. 2 (solid lines). $H_{\rm c2}^{\parallel}$ is well
described by this model across all temperatures, however in contrast
$H_{\rm c2}^{\perp}$ seems to be only well fitted close to
$T_{\rm c}$–the WHH model is insufficient to reproduce the enhancement
of the upper critical fields at low temperatures.

One possibility for such a convex curvature in $H_{\rm c2}(T)$ is
localization of the electron wave functions [39, 40, 41], where the
application of high magnetic fields below a critical temperature
$T^{*}<T_{\rm c}$ leads to the complete confinement of electronic motion
to the plane of the applied magnetic field, such that the net magnetic
flux experienced by the confined Cooper pairs is zero. This suppresses
orbital pair breaking, and in the absence of other pair-breaking effects
leads to an increase in the critical field and the possibility of
re-entrant superconductivity at high magnetic fields. However, this
would imply that the convex curvature would be seen in
$H_{\rm c2}^{\perp}$, whereas we have an upwards curvature in
$H_{\rm c2}^{\perp}$ instead. The second possibility, in the case of
weak interlayer coupling, is the formation of a Josephson-coupled
superconductor with flux lines trapped within layers [42]. This causes a
divergence in the orbital critical field and leads to a rapid increase
of $H_{\rm c2}$ if the system is orbitally limited. However, this
phenomenon can also be ruled out since (as shown later) the
superconducting coherence length is found to be larger than the
interlayer separation.

### Two-band model

It is likely that the upwards curvature in $H_{\rm c2}^{\perp}$ is due
to the multiband nature of the superconductivity, as is thought to be
the case for the rare-earth 1111 systems (_Re_FeAsO) [34, 43, 44], the
122 systems (BaFe₂A₂) [41], and the closely related 111 superconductor
LiFeAs [43], amongst others. A two-band superconductor can be fitted
using the model by Gurevich [8], which is based on a weakly-coupled
system in the dirty limit4 and whose parameters are the BCS coupling
constants $\lambda_{\rm nm}$ (λ₁₂, λ₂₁ interband; λ₁₁,λ₂₂ intraband) and
the band diffusivities D₁ and D₂. This model accounts well for our
$H_{\rm c2}^{\perp}$ as shown in Fig. 2, and attributes the convex
curvature to a significant difference between the diffusivity of the two
bands, D₂^(⊥)/D₁^(⊥) < 1[8]. The D anisotropy is likely due to one band
being dirtier than the other [8], because of the difference between hole
and electron bands (see end of Sec. IV.5) and the resulting difference
in Fermi velocities ($v_{\rm e}\gg v_{\rm h}$) [30], as well as
scattering from magnetic impurities or strong magnetic excitations [34,
44] which might affect the bands differently. Note that this argument
depends on decoupling of the band scattering rates. ARPES measurements
[27] show that the hole bands are of mixed parity, while one of the
electron bands is of odd parity only. This will result in a slight
decoupling of the scattering times. We note that in contrast to
$H_{\rm c2}^{\perp}$, the

Figure 3: (Color online) Evolution with Co doping of (a)
$H_{\rm c2}^{\perp}$ and the BCS paramagnetic limit, as well as the
orbital and paramagnetic components deduced from fits to the WHH model,
(b) the spin-orbit scattering constant $\lambda_{\rm so}$ for
$H_{\rm c2}^{\perp}$ (for 1

$H_{\rm c2}^{\parallel}$ data can be fitted by setting
$D_{\rm 1}^{\parallel}=D_{\rm 2}^{\parallel}$,5 which reduces back to a
one-band model and thus validates our previous $H_{\rm c2}^{\parallel}$
one-band fit [8]. This model was found to be strongly sensitive to the
band diffusivities $D_{\rm 1}$ and $D_{\rm 2}$, but significantly less
dependent on the BCS couplings. Furthermore, due to the symmetry of the
Gurevich functions our data can be fitted with attractive interband
coupling λ₁₂, λ₂₁ > 0 indicative of the conventional s-wave coupling
scenario, as well as with repulsive interband coupling λ₁₂, λ₂₁ < 0
which would indicate s^(±) superconductivity. Thus our data can be used
neither to rule out, nor confirm, the s^(±) coupling suggested by a
recent neutron study [45]. The data could be fitted with strong
(λ₁₂λ₂₁ > λ₁₁λ₂₂) or weak (λ₁₂λ₂₁ < λ₁₁λ₂₂) interband coupling.
Therefore we find the two-band Gurevich model to be overparameterized in
our situation, and so we shall not rely on this model for extracting
values for $\lambda_{\rm nm}$. We also suggest more generally that the
number of parameters involved in the Gurevich model would make it
difficult to draw strong conclusions regarding the nature of the
underlying order from fitting this model to any $H_{\rm c2}$ data of
this form.

Footnote 5: D^(∥), the effective diffusivity when the field is applied
parallel to planes, is defined as
$D^{\parallel}=\sqrt{(D^{\perp 2}+D^{\perp}D^{(\alpha)})}$.

There also exists the possibility of a Fulde-Ferrell-Larkin-Ovchinnikov
(FFLO) phase [46], which would lead to a state of inhomogeneous
superconductivity with a spatially varying gap function, causing an
increase in the experimentally measured critical field below
$0.55T_{\rm c}$ if the system is paramagnetically limited and hence
accounting for the slope of $H_{\rm c2}^{\parallel}$[47]. The presence
of an exotic FFLO phase cannot be ruled out, however it seems unlikely
since (a) such a state is possible only in extremely clean materials
(l ≫ ξ), and (b) that the FFLO phase is thought to cause a hysteresis
between the up-sweep and down-sweep measurements [48, 49]. However, we
note that the possibility of a weak FFLO state has been raised for
LiFeAs [50], where l ≈ ξ[51].

### Enhancement of the paramagnetic limit

Given that in our case the Gurevich model collapses into a one-band
model when the applied field is parallel to the planes, we return to
further analysis of the single-band fit of the WHH model to
$H_{\rm c2}^{\parallel}$, which allows us to separate the orbital and
paramagnetic components of the critical field. The orbital limit at
$T_{\rm c}$ can be approximated as
$H_{\rm c2}^{\rm orb}(0)=-0.69T_{\rm c}({\rm d}H_{\rm c2}^{\parallel}/{\rm d}T )_{T=T_{\rm c}}$
in the dirty limit, and the paramagnetic component can be found via
$H_{\rm c2}^{\rm em}(0)=\sqrt{2}\,H_{\rm c2}^{\rm orb}(0)/\alpha$. The
extracted orbital and paramagnetic components, the BCS paramagnetic
limit $\mu_{0}H_{\rm BCS}^{\rm em}(0)\approx 1.84T_{\rm c}$, and the
experimental critical field $H_{\rm c2}(0)$ (as extrapolated using the
WHH model), is given in Fig. 3(b). We observe that at all dopings the
extracted paramagnetic limit matches $H_{\rm c2}^{\parallel}(0)$ well,
while the calculated orbital limit is noticeably higher than
$H_{\rm c2}^{\parallel}(0)$. This implies that the critical field
behavior is dominated by paramagnetic effects. The only exception is at
1

The spin-orbit scattering constant $\lambda_{\rm so}$, as extracted from
the fit of the WHH model to $H_{\rm c2}^{\parallel}$, is shown in Fig.
3(b). Starting from the parent compound, $\lambda_{\rm so}$ decreases
upon doping, due to the reduction in scattering from magnetic
excitations as the system moves away from the long-range ordered AFM
phase. $\lambda_{\rm so}$ then reaches a minima at optimal doping, but
begins to increase in the overdoped region, possibly due to scattering
from magnetic Co impurities. It is likely that the enhancement of the
paramagnetic limit is due to a combination of the spin-orbit scattering
and other strong electronic interactions; any increase in the g factor
or the effective mass caused by such interactions will enhance the
paramagnetic limit by a further (m^(*)g)/(mg^(*))[55, 56, 57]. We note
that neither of the models considered so far include the Eliashberg
strong-coupling renormalization effects [58]. Due to its two-band
nature, NaFe_(1 − x)Co_(x)As has two band gaps of different magnitude.
Heat capacity measurements by Tan _et al._[38] have shown the larger
band gap $\Delta_{\rm L}(0)$ to be significantly above the BCS value
$\Delta_{\rm BCS}(0)=3.5k_{\rm B}T_{\rm c}/2$, and allow us to extract
the effective strong-coupling constant $\lambda_{\rm sc}$ via
$\Delta_{\rm L}(0)=(1+\lambda_{\rm sc})\Delta_{\rm BCS}(0)$. This is
shown in Fig. 3(b). We have a maximum $\lambda_{\rm sc}=1.1$ at optimal
doping,6 implying the presence of significant strong electronic
interactions, which are reduced as we move away from optimal doping.
Therefore we conclude that the enhancement of the paramagnetic limit
above the BCS value is a combination of both the spin-orbit and strong
coupling effects. However, the reason for the absence of this PM
enhancement in the parent compound, despite a finite $\lambda_{\rm so}$,
is not clear. Since $\lambda_{\rm sc}\approx 0$ in the parent compound,
this may indicate that strong coupling effects dominate the PM
enhancement effect; but in such a case one wonders why there is a PM
enhancement at 1

Footnote 6: Note that there is an apparent disagreement in the reported
value of $\Delta_{\rm L}(0)$ at optimal doping between Refs. [38] and
[13], giving $\lambda_{\rm sc}=1.1$ and $\lambda_{\rm sc}=0.8$,
respectively.

As explained previously, application of field parallel to the crystal
planes leads to a significant $H_{\rm c2}^{\rm orb}$, thus allowing the
paramagnetic effect to limit the critical field. It is this reduction in
the importance of the orbital character which allows the one-band WHH
model to describe the $H_{\rm c2}^{\parallel}$ despite the underlying
two-band nature of the system, and which sets the scene for the
dominance of the paramagnetic limit. Within this regime we find the WHH
model to be a better fit, as it includes the spin-orbit effects
described previously. In contrast, application of field normal to the
planes reduces the orbital critical field, and so the overall critical
field now becomes an intricate combination of the two-band orbital and
paramagnetic limits. This results in the one-band WHH model being no
longer sufficient due to the increased sensitivity of the critical field
to the underlying multiband nature of the Fermi surface.

### (dH_(c2)/dT)_(T = T_(c))

Even though H_(c2)^(⊥) cannot be fully described by a one-band model,
−μ₀(dH_(c2)^(⊥)/ dT)_(T = T_(c)) at T_(c) is still of interest as it
should be proportional to the orbital critical field of the cleaner band
[8]. The −μ₀(dH_(c2)/ dT)_(T = T_(c)) for each sample orientation is
plotted in Fig. 4, where we notice a sudden change at 2

### Anisotropy

Given the critical field in both directions, we obtain the critical
field anisotropy via γ_(H) = H_(c2)^(∥)/H_(c2)^(⊥), as given in Fig.
5(a). The anisotropy is highest at T_(c), and decreases with decreasing
temperature. Such a temperature-dependent anisotropy is characteristic
of pnictide superconductors, having been seen in
Sr_(1 − x)Eu_(x)(Fe_(0.89)Co_(0.11))₂As₂[61], BaFe_(2 − x)Co_(x)As₂[41],
SmFeAsO_(0.85)[34], and LiFeAs [62]. This is a signature of the
underlying multiband nature of the system, since in a single-band s-wave
superconductor the anisotropy should be largely temperature independent,
although we note that single-band d-wave superconductors may have a
weakly temperature dependent γ_(H)[7]. However, having measured the
anisotropy up to 0.95T_(c) for most dopings, we do not see the γ_(H)
peak at T ∼ 0.9T_(c) as expected in a two-band system [63] and seen in a
number of other materials [34, 41, 64]. This may be due to the increase
in the γ_(H) error near T_(c), or more likely because the peak occurs at
T ≥ 0.95T_(c) in this material. The approach to unity at low
temperatures can be explained using several effects: (a) by simply
setting the paramagnetic limit as the upper critical field at absolute
zero for both directions, (b) by assuming that at low temperatures the
band with lower diffusivity anisotropy (D₁/D_(⊥)) dominates, or (c) that
the two bands have opposite anisotropy which compensate each other at
low temperatures, for example D₁^(∥)/D_(⊥)^(⊥) < 1,
D₂^(∥)/D_(⊥)^(⊥) > 1[61].

We note that with the exception of the parent compound, the underdoped
systems are relatively isotropic (γ_(H) < 3), whereas the optimally and
overdoped systems become noticeably anisotropic near T_(c) (γ_(H) ≈ 7).
This is complemented by the fact that the positive curvature in
H_(c2)^(⊥) also becomes more pronounced as we move over from the
underdoped to the overdoped regime (Fig. 2). Both observations could be
accounted for by an increase in the band diffusivity anisotropy D₁/D₂
[see Fig. 5(b)], which magnifies the effect of the underlying multiband
nature on γ_(H) and H_(c2)^(⊥). It is known that the
NaFe_(1 − x)Co_(x)As Fermi surface consists of hole pockets at Γ and two
electron pockets on the M points of the reciprocal space; with the
electron Fermi surface being slightly warped, showing a small
three-dimensional component [27, 28, 30, 31]. The Fermi surface is found
to be highly sensitive to Co doping; causing the electron pockets to
widen and hole pockets to shrink with doping, until the hole pockets
completely vanish at x ≈ 0.1[28]. It is this difference between the
response of the hole and electron pockets (and the corresponding change
in the Fermi velocity v_(F)), as well as the increase in scattering from
magnetic impurities with additional doping, which leads to an increase
in D₁/D₂.

### Coherence length and the superfluid stiffness

The Ginzburg-Landau coherence lengths can be estimated using
$\xi_{\parallel}=\sqrt{\phi_{0}/(2\pi\,\mu_{0}H_{c2}^{\perp})}$ and
ξ_(⊥) = ϕ₀/(2π μ₀H_(c2)^(∥)ξ_(∥))

Figure 4: (Color online) Differential with respect to temperature of (a)
μ₀H_(c2)^(∥) and (b) μ₀H_(c2)^(⊥), at T_(c) and as a function of doping.
The green, purple, and white areas represent the orthorhombic AFM phase,
the nonmagnetic orthorhombic phase, and the tetragonal phase,
respectively.

where ϕ₀ is the flux quantum. Extrapolating the critical field
measurements to absolute zero using the WHH model for $H_{\rm c2}^{1}$
and the Gurevich model for $H_{\rm c2}^{\perp}$, we can calculate the
coherence lengths as given in Fig. 5(c), showing a minima at optimal
doping as expected.7 The superconducting layer thickness δ can be
estimated as
$\delta=\sqrt{12}\xi_{1}H_{\rm c2}^{\perp}/H_{\rm c2}^{\parallel}$[65],
which gives us a minimum superconducting layer thickness of 7.25 nm, an
order of magnitude longer than the lattice c-axis parameter. This rules
out the possibility of a dimensional crossover, or the formation of a
Josephson-coupled superconductor, as discussed previously. However, it
has been noted that the actual coherence lengths may be smaller than
given by the Ginzburg-Landau model due to competition with paramagnetism
[41].

Footnote 7: The uncertainly in extrapolation of the overparameterized
two-band model to 0 K has been included in error bars of Fig. 5(c).

The lower critical field $H_{\rm c1}$, which denotes the onset of vortex
formation, was also measured using a Quantum Design SQUID magnetometer
[66], where the sample magnetization was recorded after zero-field
cooling from 300 K down to 2 K. $H_{\rm c1}$ was determined as the point
at which the magnetization deviates from the Meissner condition χ = −1.
Given the lower critical field, we can calculate the London penetration
depth via
$\mu_{0}H_{\rm c1}^{\perp}=(\phi_{0}/4\pi\lambda_{1}^{2})\ln(\lambda_{1}/\xi_{ 1})$
and
$\mu_{0}H_{\rm c1}^{\parallel}=(\phi_{0}/4\pi\lambda_{1}\lambda_{2})\ln(\sqrt{ \lambda_{1}\lambda_{2}/\xi_{1}\xi_{1}})$.
The penetration depth is related to the number density n_(i) of charge
carriers and the superfluid density via λ⁻² ≡ ρ_(s) ∝ ∑n_(i). The
evolution of the superfluid density ρ_(s) at 2 K is given in Fig. 5(d),
where we observe a maximum at optimal doping, with ρ_(s) decreasing
almost linearly in the underdoped region. Such a rapid fall is believed
to be due to the competition between superconductivity and
antiferromagnetism which removes a portion of charge carriers that might
otherwise join the condensate [67, 68], combined with an increase in
magnetic pair-breaking scattering [$\lambda_{\rm so}$, see Fig. 3(b)] as
we move deep into the AFM region [69]. The slower decrease within the
overdoped regime may be a result of the reduction in the carrier density
as the hole pockets begin to shrink, again combined with pair-breaking
scattering. This reduction in ρ_(s) in the overdoped region can also be
caused by the anisotropic superconducting gap in the s^(±) coupling
scenario, with an anisotropic reduction in the pairing strength as we
move away from optimal doping [69, 70]. Finally, we emphasize that the
1/λ₁² values given here are approximate as we have neglected any
geometric factors as well as demagnetization effects at sharp corners of
the sample [71], however we note that our data is in relatively good
agreement with previous knight shift [60] and muon-spin rotation [10]
measurements.

## V Conclusion

We have measured the upper critical field of NaFe_(1 − x)Co_(x)As across
the Co doped phase diagram, with the magnetic field applied normal and
parallel to the superconducting planes. We find that the in-plane
critical field is paramagnetically limited across the phase diagram,
with the critical field matching the BCS limit in the parent compound.
Doping leads to an enhancement of the critical field above the BCS
paramagnetic limit due to a combination of spin-orbit scattering and
strong

Figure 5: (Color online) (a) The critical field anisotropy
$\gamma_{\rm H}$ as a function of T/T_(c); (b) plot of the out-of-plane
band diffusivity anisotropy $D_{\rm c1}^{\perp}/D_{\rm c2}^{\perp}$,
from fits to the $H_{\rm c2}^{\perp}$ with
λ₁₁ = λ₂₂ = 1, λ₁₁λ₂₂ − λ₁₂λ₂₁ = 0.5. Also shown are plots of (c)
coherence lengths at 0 K, and (d) evolution of the superfluid stiffness
with doping at 2 K, where we have also included data from knight shift
(Ref. [60]) and muon-spin rotation (Ref. [10]) measurements.

electronic interactions. We note that a multiband model is necessary to
fully describe the critical field behavior, in particular the upwards
curvature in H_(c2)^(⊥) at low temperature, and is further confirmed by
the critical field anisotropy. We also discover a sudden change in
(dH_(c2)/dτ)_(T = T_(c)) at optimal doping, which we relate to the death
of the antiferromagnetic magnetism and/or the structural transition near
optimal doping. Furthermore, we discussed the penetration depth ξ and
discovered a peak in the superfluid density at optimal doping.

###### Acknowledgements.

This work is supported by EPSRC (UK). P.A.G. thanks the University of
Oxford for the provision of a Visiting Lectureship.

## References

* (1) Y. Kamihara, H. Hiramatsu, M. Hirano, R. Kawamura, H. Yanagi, T.
Kamiya, and H. Hosono, J. Am. Chem. Soc. **128**, 10012 (2006); Y.
Kamihara, T. Watanabe, M. Hirano, and H. Hosono, _ibid._**130**, 3296
(2008). * (2) C. Wang, L. Li, S. Chi, Z. Zhu, Z. Ren, Y. Li, Y. Wang, X.
Lin, Y. Luo, S. Jiang, X. Xu, G. Cao, and Z. Xu, Europhys. Lett. **83**,
67006 (2008). * (3) A. A. Kordyuk, Low Temp. Phys. **38**, 888 (2012). *
(4) I. I. Mazin, D. J. Singh, M. D. Johannes, and M. H. Du, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **101**, 057003 (2008). * (5) P. M. R. Brydon, M. Daghofer, C.
Timm, and J. van den Brink, Phys. Rev. B **83**, 060501 (2011). * (6) A.
Chubukov, Annu. Rev. Condens. Matter Phys. **3**, 57 (2012). * (7) V. G.
Kogan and R. Prozorov, Rep. Prog. Phys. **75**, 114502 (2012). * (8) A.
Gurevich, Phys. Rev. B **67**, 184515 (2003); Physica C **456**, 160
(2007). * (9) S. Li, C. de la Cruz, Q. Huang, G. F. Chen, T.-L. Xia, J.
L. Luo, N. L. Wang, and P. Dai, Phys. Rev. B **80**, 020504 (2009). *
(10) J. D. Wright, T. Lancaster, I. Franke, A. J. Steele, J. S. Moller,
M. J. Pitcher, A. J. Corkett, D. R. Parker, D. G. Free, F. L. Pratt, P.
J. Baker, S. J. Clarke, and S. J. Blundell, Phys. Rev. B **85**, 054503
(2012). * (11) J.-H. Chu, J. G. Analytis, C. Kucharczyk, and I. R.
Fisher, Phys. Rev. B **79**, 014506 (2009); A. J. Drew, C. Niedermayer,
P. J. Baker, F. L. Pratt, S. J. Blundell, T. Lancaster, R. H. Liu, G.
Wu, X. H. Chen, I. Watanabe, V. K. Malik, A. Dubroka, M. Rossle, K. W.
Kim, C. Baines, and C. Bernhard, Nat. Mater. **8**, 310 (2009). * (12)
D. R. Parker, M. J. P. Smith, T. Lancaster, A. J. Steele, I. Franke, P.
J. Baker, F. L. Pratt, M. J. Pitcher, S. J. Blundell, and S. J. Clarke,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **104**, 057007 (2010). * (13) A. F. Wang, X. G. Luo,
Y. J. Yan, J. J. Ying, Z. J. Xiang, G. J. Ye, P. Cheng, Z. Y. Li, W. J.
Hu, and X. H. Chen, Phys. Rev. B **85**, 224521 (2012). * (14) H.-M.
Jiang, Z.-J. Yao, and F.-C. Zhang, Europhys. Lett. **100**, 47004
(2012). * (15) V. K. Anand, H. Kim, M. A. Tanatar, R. Prozorov, and D.
C. Johnston, Phys. Rev. B **87**, 224510 (2013). * (16) G. Levy, R.
Sutarto, D. Chevrier, T. Regier, R. Blyth, J. Geck, S. Wurmehl, L.
Harnagea, H. Wadati, T. Mizokawa, I. S. Elfimov, A. Damascelli, and G.
A. Sawatzky, Phys. Rev. Lett. **109**, 077001 (2012). * (17) M. P.
Allan, T.-M. Chuang, F. Massee, Y. Xie, N. Ni, S. L. Bud’ko, G. S.
Boebinger, Q. Wang, D. S. Dessau, P. C. Canfield, M. S. Golden, and J.
C. Davis, Nat. Phys. **9**, 220 (2013). * (18) G. Prando, O. Vakaliuk,
S. Sanna, G. Lamura, T. Shiroka, P. Bonfa, P. Carretta, R. De Renzi,
H.-H. Klauss, C. G. F. Blum, S. Wurmehl, C. Hess, and B. Buchner, Phys.
Rev. B **87**, 174519 (2013); H. Suzuki, T. Yoshida, S. Ideta, G.
Shibata, K. Ishigami, T. Kadono, A. Fujimori, M. Hashimoto, D. H. Lu,
Z.-X. Shen, K. Ono, E. Sakai, H. Kumigashira, M. Matsuo, and T.
Sasagawa, _ibid._**88**, 100501 (2013). * (19) N. Spyrison, M. A.
Tanatar, K. Cho, Y. Song, P. Dai, C. Zhang, and R. Prozorov, Phys. Rev.
B **86**, 144528 (2012). * (20) M. M. Altarawneh, C. H. Mielke, and J.
S. Brooks, Rev. Sci. Instrum. **80**, 066104 (2009). * (21) S.
Ghannadzadeh, M. Coak, I. Franke, P. A. Goddard, J. Singleton, and J. L.
Manson, Rev. Sci. Instrum. **82**, 113902 (2011). * (22) E. D. Mun, M.
M. Altarawneh, C. H. Mielke, V. S. Zapf, R. Hu, S. L. Bud’ko, and P. C.
Canfield, Phys. Rev. B **83**, 100514 (2011). * (23) B. S.
Chandrasekhar, Appl. Phys. Lett. **1**, 7 (1962); A. M. Clogston, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **9**, 266 (1962). * (24) N. R. Werthamer, E. Helfand, and P.
C. Hohenberg, Phys. Rev. **147**, 295 (1966). * (25) G. Cody,
_Proceedings of the 1968 Summer Study on Superconducting Devices and
Accelerators_, Part 2 (Brookhaven National Laboratory, Upton, New York,
1968), p. 405. * (26) K. Maki, Phys. Rev. **148**, 362 (1966). * (27)
Z.-H. Liu, P. Richard, Y. Li, L.-L. Jia, G.-F. Chen, T.-L. Xia, D.-M.
Wang, J.-B. He, H.-B. Yang, Z.-H. Pan, T. Valla, P. D. Johnson, N. Xu,
H. Ding, and S.-C. Wang, Appl. Phys. Lett. **101**, 202601 (2012). *
(28) S. T. Cui, S. Y. Zhu, A. F. Wang, S. Kong, S. L. Ju, X. G. Luo, X.
H. Chen, G. B. Zhang, and Z. Sun, Phys. Rev. B **86**, 155143 (2012). *
(29) Z.-H. Liu, P. Richard, K. Nakayama, G.-F. Chen, S. Dong, J.-B. He,
D.-M. Wang, T.-L. Xia, K. Umezawa, T. Kawahara, S. Souma, T. Sato, T.
Takahashi, T. Qian, Y. Huang, N. Xu, Y. Shi, H. Ding, and S.-C. Wang,
Phys. Rev. B **84**, 064519 (2011). * (30) S. Deng, J. Kohler, and A.
Simon, Phys. Rev. B **80**, 214508 (2009). * (31) K. Kusakabe and A.
Nakanishi, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **78**, 124712 (2009). * (32) J.
Singleton, P. A. Goddard, A. Ardavan, A. I. Coldea, S. J. Blundell, R.
D. McDonald, S. Tozer, and J. A. Schlueter, Phys. Rev. Lett. **99**,
027004 (2007). * (33) J. Singleton and C. Mielke, Contemporary Phys.
**43**, 63 (2002); M.-S. Nam, J. A. Symington, J. Singleton, S. J.
Blundell, A. Ardavan, J. A. A. J. Perenboom, M. Kurmoo, and P. Day, J.
Phys.: Condens. Matter **11**, 1477 (1999). * (34) H.-S. Lee, M.
Bartkowiak, J.-H. Park, J.-Y. Lee, J.-Y. Kim, N.-H. Sung, B. K. Cho,
C.-U. Jung, J. S. Kim, and H.-J. Lee, Phys. Rev. B **80**, 144512
(2009).

* [35] F. Weickert, M. Nicklas, W. Schnelle, J. Wosnitza, A.
Leithe-Jasper, and H. Rosner, J. Appl. Phys. **110**, 123906 (2011). *
[36] K. Haule, J. H. Shim, and G. Kotliar, Phys. Rev. Lett. **100**,
226402 (2008). * [37] A. F. Wang, J. J. Ying, X. G. Luo, Y. J. Yan, D.
Y. Liu, Z. J. Xiang, P. Cheng, G. J. Ye, L. J. Zou, Z. Sun, and X. H.
Chen, New J. Phys. **15**, 043048 (2013). * [38] G. Tan, P. Zheng, X.
Wang, Y. Chen, X. Zhang, J. Luo, T. Netherton, Y. Song, P. Dai, C.
Zhang, and S. Li, Phys. Rev. B **87**, 144512 (2013). * [39] A. G.
Lebed, Pis’ma Zh. Eksp. Teor. Fiz. **44**, 89 (1986) [JETP Lett. **44**,
144 (1986)]. * [40] N. Dupuis, G. Montambaux, and C. A. R. Sa de Melo,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **70**, 2613 (1993). * [41] M. Kano, Y. Kohama, D.
Graf, F. Balakirev, A. S. Sefat, M. A. Mcguire, B. C. Sales, D. Mandrus,
and S. W. Tozer, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **78**, 084719 (2009). * [42] R. A.
Klemm, A. Luther, and M. R. Beasley, Phys. Rev. B **12**, 877 (1975). *
[43] F. Hunte, J. Jaroszynski, A. Gurevich, D. C. Larbalestier, R. Jin,
A. S. Sefat, M. A. McGuire, B. C. Sales, D. K. Christen, and D. Mandrus,
Nature (London) **453**, 903 (2008). * [44] J. Jaroszynski, F. Hunte, L.
Balicas, Y.-j. Jo, I. Raicevic, A. Gurevich, D. C. Larbalestier, F. F.
Balakirev, L. Fang, P. Cheng, Y. Jia, and H. H. Wen, Phys. Rev. B
**78**, 174523 (2008). * [45] C. Zhang, H.-F. Li, Y. Song, Y. Su, G.
Tan, T. Netherton, C. Redding, S. V. Carr, O. Sobolev, A. Schneidewind,
E. Faulhaber, L. W. Harriger, S. Li, X. Lu, D.-X. Yao, T. Das, A. V.
Balatsky, T. Bruckel, J. W. Lynn, and P. Dai, Phys. Rev. B **88**,
064504 (2013). * [46] P. Fulde and R. A. Ferrell, Phys. Rev. **135**,
A550 (1964); A. Larkin and Y. Ovchinnikov, Zh. Eksp. Teor. Fiz. **47**,
1136 (1964). * [47] Y. Matsuda and H. Shimahara, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn.
**76**, 051005 (2007). * [48] R. Lortz, Y. Wang, A. Demuer, P. H. M.
Bottger, B. Bergk, G. Zwicknagl, Y. Nakazawa, and J. Wosnitza, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **99**, 187002 (2007). * [49] P. W. Adams, P. Herron, and E.
I. Meletis, Phys. Rev. B **58**, R2952 (1998). * [50] K. Cho, H. Kim, M.
A. Tanatar, Y. J. Song, Y. S. Kwon, W. A. Coniglio, C. C. Agosta, A.
Gurevich, and R. Prozorov, Phys. Rev. B **83**, 060502 (2011). * [51] T.
Okada, H. Takahashi, Y. Imai, K. Kitagawa, K. Matsubayashi, Y. Uwatoko,
and A. Maeda, Phys. Rev. B **86**, 064516 (2012). * [52] S. Khim, B.
Lee, J. W. Kim, E. S. Choi, G. R. Stewart, and K. H. Kim, Phys. Rev. B
**84**, 104502 (2011). * [53] H. Q. Yuan, J. Singleton, F. F. Balakirev,
S. A. Baily, G. F. Chen, J. L. Luo, and N. L. Wang, Nature (London)
**457**, 565 (2009). * [54] S. Khim, J. S. Kim, J. W. Kim, S. H. Lee, F.
Balakirev, Y. Bang, and K. H. Kim, Physica C **470**, S317 (2010). *
[55] A. Perez-Gonzalez, Phys. Rev. B **54**, 16053 (1996). * [56] M.
Schossmann and J. P. Carbotte, Phys. Rev. B **39**, 4210 (1989). * [57]
F. Zuo, J. S. Brooks, R. H. McKenzie, J. A. Schlueter, and J. M.
Williams, Phys. Rev. B **61**, 750 (2000). * [58] J. P. Carbotte, Rev.
Mod. Phys. **62**, 1027 (1990). * [59] R. M. Fernandes, L. H. VanBebber,
S. Bhattacharya, P. Chandra, V. Keppens, D. Mandrus, M. A. McGuire, B.
C. Sales, A. S. Sefat, and J. Schmalian, Phys. Rev. Lett. **105**,
157003 (2010). * [60] S. Oh, A. M. Mounce, J. A. Lee, W. P. Halperin, C.
L. Zhang, S. Carr, and P. Dai, Phys. Rev. B **87**, 174517 (2013). *
[61] R. Hu, E. D. Mun, M. M. Altarawneh, C. H. Mielke, V. S. Zapf, S. L.
Bud’ko, and P. C. Canfield, Phys. Rev. B **85**, 064511 (2012). * [62]
J. L. Zhang, L. Jiao, F. F. Balakirev, X. C. Wang, C. Q. Jin, and H. Q.
Yuan, Phys. Rev. B **83**, 174506 (2011). * [63] A. A. Golubov and A. E.
Koshelev, Phys. Rev. B **68**, 104503 (2003). * [64] E. Mun, N. Ni, J.
M. Allred, R. J. Cava, O. Ayala, R. D. McDonald, N. Harrison, and V. S.
Zapf, Phys. Rev. B **85**, 100502 (2012). * [65] T. Schneider and A.
Schmidt, Phys. Rev. B **47**, 5915 (1993). * [66] Quatum Design USA,
http://www.qdusa.com/ * [67] R. T. Gordon, H. Kim, N. Salovich, R. W.
Giannetta, R. M. Fernandes, V. G. Kogan, T. Prozorov, S. L. Bud’ko, P.
C. Canfield, M. A. Tanatar, and R. Prozorov, Phys. Rev. B **82**, 054507
(2010). * [68] R. Prozorov and V. G. Kogan, Rep. Prog. Phys. **74**,
124505 (2011). * [69] L. Luan, T. M. Lippman, C. W. Hicks, J. A. Bert,
O. M. Auslaender, J.-H. Chu, J. G. Analytis, I. R. Fisher, and K. A.
Moler, Phys. Rev. Lett. **106**, 067001 (2011). * [70] A. B. Vorontsov,
M. G. Vavilov, and A. V. Chubukov, Phys. Rev. B **79**, 140507 (2009). *
[71] E. H. Brandt, Phys. Rev. B **60**, 11939 (1999). * [72] M. M.
Altarawneh, K. Collar, C. H. Mielke, N. Ni, S. L. Bud’ko, and P. C.
Canfield, Phys. Rev. B **78**, 220505 (2008). * [73] T. Dahm and N.
Schopohl, Phys. Rev. Lett. **91**, 017001 (2003).
