Coexistence of multiphase superconductivity and ferromagnetism in
lithiated iron selenide hydroxide [(Li1-_x_Fe_x_)OH]FeSe

Christian Urban,¹ Ilya Valmianski,¹ Ursula Pachmayr,² Ali C. Basaran,¹
Dirk Johrendt,² and Ivan K. Schuller¹

¹Department of Physics and Center for Advanced Nanoscience, University
of California, San Diego, La Jolla, California 92093, USA

²Department of Chemistry, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universitaet Muenchen,
D-81377, Munich, Germany

###### Abstract

We present experimental evidence for (a) multiphase superconductivity
and (b) coexistence of magnetism and superconductivity in a single
structural phase of lithiated iron selenide hydroxide
[(Li1-_x_Fe_x_)OH]FeSe. Magnetic field modulated microwave spectroscopy
data confirms superconductivity with at least two distinct transition
temperatures attributed to well-defined superconducting phases at
T_(SC1) = 40 ± 2 K and T_(SC2) = 35 ± 2 K. Magnetometry data for the
upper critical fields reveal a change in the magnetic order (T_(M) = 12
K) below T_(SC1) and T_(SC2) that is consistent with ferromagnetism.
This occurs because the superconducting coherence length is much smaller
than the structural coherence length, allowing for several different
electronic and magnetic states on a single crystallite. The results give
insight into the physics of complex multinary materials, where several
phenomena governed by different characteristic length scales coexist.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.97.024516

024516

## I Introduction

Understanding the coexistence of physical phenomena in multinary
compounds is key for the development of functional materials. Some
important classes of such materials are multiferroics [1], magnetic
superconductors [2], as well as interfacially controlled [3,4] and
proximity effect driven compounds [5]. In many cases, the systems being
investigated are doped and are inhomogeneous on length scales shorter
than the characteristic coherence length of the particular phenomena
under study. Thus, it is important to understand how different length
scales interact to give rise to an overall global response.1

Footnote 1: For a discussion of length scales see for instance Ref.
[13].

A particularly interesting phenomenon is the coexistence of
superconductivity (SC) and magnetism within the same compound. Examples
include reentrant SC [6,7], where the SC competes directly with
magnetism, SC with a high concentration of magnetic elements [8],
magnetic SC [9,10], superlattices of ferromagnetic (FM) and SC materials
[11,12,13], molecular magnetic SC [14,15], and FM-SC created by charge
doping [14,16] or high pressure [17]. Very recently there have been
claims of SC coexisting with FM at interfaces of insulating oxides [4].
For a recent review see Refs. [4] and [18].

Despite the many examples of materials that contain magnetic and SC
elements, spatially coexisting SC and FM have been found in only a few
systems and at very low temperatures. Significant efforts in the design
of new materials by intercalating spacer layers into FeSe crystals led
to the discovery of the FM-SC, lithiated iron selenide hydroxide
[(Li0.8Fe0.2)OH]FeSe (LISH), with a record for FM-SC systems
superconducting transition temperature (T_(C)) of 43 K [19]. The FM
ordering temperature (10 K) is one of the highest and the SC volume
fraction is very large, close to 100

LISH is particularly well suited to address the interaction and length
scales over which the structure, SC, and magnetism interact. In order to
study these we have used a combination of conventional structural and
magnetic methods, together with magnetic field modulated microwave
spectroscopy (MFMMS). MFMMS is a unique, highly sensitive, and selective
technique [27] which provides information about inhomogeneous materials
exhibiting multiple phase transitions [28]. Specifically, it has been
extensively used to study SC systems [29,29,30] with multiple
superconducting phases [31]. A unique advantage over other methods is
its ability to distinguish phase transitions of different origins within
the same compound [28,29].

In this study, we present two main results. First, we find that
crystallographically single-phase polycrystalline samples of LISH
exhibit multiple SC phases with distinct T_(C)’s. Magnetometry data
reveal that the SC coherence length is substantially shorter than the
x-ray coherence length. Second, we show that these SC phases are
coincidental with a magnetic ordering appearing at T_(M) = 12 K. This
magnetic ordering is consistent with ferromagnetism.

## II Experimental

Polycrystalline LISH was synthesized under hydrothermal conditions
analogous to reference with x = 0.2[19]. Briefly, iron metal (99.9

X-ray powder diffraction was carried out using a Huber G670
diffractometer with Cu-Kα₁ radiation (λ = 1.54 A) and a Ge-111
monochromator. Structural parameters were obtained from Rietveld
refinement [32,33] of these diffraction data using the TOBAS software
package [34].

Magnetization measurements were performed using a Quantum Design
DynaCool system equipped with a vibrating sample magnetometer with a
maximum field of 9 T and a temperature range between 1.8 and 400 K. The
following protocol was used for the zero-field-cooling (ZFC) procedure:
the samples were cooled to 2 K without applied field (H = 0 Oe). The
magnetization was measured in a small field (typically 30 Oe) while
heating the sample to 60 K, well above the T_(c). Subsequently, the
field-cooling (FC) branch was obtained by cooling the sample to 2 K in
the same small field. Hysteresis loops were recorded starting at zero
field for different temperatures and the magnetization was measured as a
function of increasing field up to the maximum field value. In between
all measurements the magnet was oscillated around 0 Oe well above the
sample T_(c) to minimize residual magnetic fields to less than 5 Oe.

A customized Bruker EleXsys X-band (9.4-GHz) electron paramagnetic
resonance apparatus was used to perform MFMMS. The spectrometer was
operated in a nonconventional mode in which the microwave absorption
signal was measured as a function of temperature. A 100-KHz 15-Oe
peak-to-peak modulation field was used to enhance the signal to noise. A
small (15 Oe) external magnetic field was applied and kept constant
during the measurement. As a result, the total applied magnetic field
was always positive to avoid field-dependent hysteretic effects. The
sample was placed in the center of a rectangular dual-mode cavity with
microwave magnetic field parallel to the modulation and external
magnetic fields. The applied microwave power was chosen to be low enough
(1 mW) to avoid sample heating. A flow cryostat was used to sweep the
temperature from 300 to 4 K at 5 K/min.

## III Results

Figure 1 shows the measured (blue) x-ray powder pattern together with an
excellent (see Table 1) refinement (red line) of a LISH single-phase
compound. The crystallographic data obtained are included in Table 1.
The numbers in between parentheses are a Gaussian estimate of the error
in the last significant figure. The tetragonal structure consists of
anti-PbO type layers of lithium-iron-hydroxide alternating with FeSe
layers in good agreement with literature values [19-26]. The R values of
the Rietveld refinement are exceptionally low (R_(wp) = 1.57,
R_(exp) = 1.28) and, for example, significantly better than the R values
(R_(wp) = 7.35, R_(exp) = 4.71) in the determination of the now-accepted
structural model of Yttrium Barium Copper Oxide [35]. The measured
diffraction peaks arise from the superposition of instrumentally
broadened peaks therefore the peak width provides a lower limit for the
structural coherence length. Using the Scherrer formula, a structural
coherence length of x-ray diffraction ξ_(XRD) = 91 nm is obtained from
the average width of the diffraction peaks between 8 and 100deg (2θ
angle).

The MFMMS spectrum of the LISH at the lowest field (1.5 mT) as a
function of temperature shows an abrupt increase at T_(MFMMS, 1) = 38 K,
which is the typical signature of a superconducting transition (Fig. 2)
[29]. Decreasing the temperature further reveals a strong and broad
feature centered around 15 K which is also observed in MFMMS spectra of
the nonmagnetic "sister" compound KFeSe [36] and further in a variety of
cuprates [37,38]. Yazici _et al._[36] relate the origin of a similar
broad peak to additional dissipation mechanisms like vortex motion and
pinning, a Bragg glass-vortex liquid transition, or Josephson junctions
(weak links) which create additional microwave absorption in the MFMMS
[29]. Therefore the broad peak observed in the MFMMS spectra is assigned
to a "background" which is not necessarily related to the phase purity
and the onset of a magnetic or new superconducting phase. A
ferromagnetic transition manifests itself as a dip as opposed to a peak
and is difficult to detect due to the background peak.

Figure 1: X-ray powder diffraction (blue), Rietveld refinement (red),
and difference curve (gray) of ([Li_(1 − x)Fe_(x)OH]FeSe. The excellent
agreement between experiment and refinement indicates a well-defined
structurally homogeneous sample. The inset shows the structural model of
the compound.

When the applied magnetic field is increased to 20 mT the background
decreases and a second transition around 32 K with an abrupt peak onset
at approximately T_(MFMMS, 2) = T_(SC2) = 35 K becomes more pronounced,
and is clearly distinct at 30 mT [Fig. 2(a)]. Both peaks shift as a
function of field to lower temperatures, as is typical for SC. Both
observations together indicate two different SC transitions related to
two phases [28, 29]. An isothermal, low-field scan at 25 K shows a
clockwise chirality which further supports the superconducting nature of
the transitions [Fig. 2(b)] [29].

Standard ZFC-FC magnetometry was performed with 30-Oe applied field
using the protocol described above [Fig 2(e)]. The separation of the two
magnetization branches at T_(t) = 40 K defines the SC transition
temperature. The ZFC cooled curve saturates at low temperature and it
implies full diamagnetism at 2 K. The slight upturn in both the ZFC and
FC curves indicates ferromagnetic ordering.

Isothermal magnetization measurements produced hysteresis curves which
consist of the superposition of a paramagnetic curve and the hysteresis
loop of a conventional superconductor [Fig. 2(c)]. To isolate the
superconducting part of the signal a paramagnetic contribution had to be
subtracted [Fig. 2(d)]. Simple paramagnetism implies that the
magnetization per unit cell n(T) behaves as Brillouin functions using
Curie’s law [39] with a g factor, g = 2, and momenta J = 3/2, S = 1/2,
and L = 1. However, the fitting parameter n(T) is a function of
temperature and constant only between 13 and 30 K [Fig. 3(b)]. In this
temperature region the paramagnetic contribution of
n(13–30 K) = 1.8μ_(B) per unit cell is compatible with the estimation of
an upper limit: 2.64 μ_(B), using body-centered cubic (bcc) iron. The
number of Fe atoms is 1.2 per unit cell and a magnetic moment per unit
cell for iron in bcc form is 2.2 μ_(B)/atom_(Fe). Below 13 K n(T)
decreases, which suggests a change in the total magnetic order at 13 K.
Roughly above 30 K n(T) increases with temperature, which supports
another transition tentatively due to superconductivity setting in at
that temperature supported by MFMMS at T_(SC2) = 35 K.

After separating the paramagnetic and superconducting contributions, a
lower (upper) critical field H_(c1) (H_(c2)) for each temperature was
extracted from the superconducting hysteresis loop. The lower critical
field H_(c1) is the point where the magnetization starts to deviate from
the linear field dependence from the virgin curve [black curve, inset,
Fig. 2(c)]. The upper critical fields at each temperature H_(c2)(T) were
extracted from the SC hysteresis loops by fitting the data with a
stretched exponential and by finding the field at which the upper branch
decreases to three times the noise level above zero. Below 6 K the
magnetic field of 9 T was not enough to close the loops and the upper
critical fields were extrapolated.

The zero-temperature upper and lower critical fields H_(c1, 2) (T = 0)
can usually be obtained from an extrapolation to T = 0 of H_(c1, 2) (T)
with the following expressions [40, 41, 42]:

$$H_{\text{c1}}(\,T)=H_{\text{c1}}(0\,\text{K})\Bigg{[}1-\left(\frac{T}{T_{c}} \right)^{2}\Bigg{]},$$
(1)

$$H_{\text{c2}}(\,T)=H_{\text{c2}}(0\,\text{K})\Bigg{[}\frac{1-\left(\frac{T}{T }\right)^{2}}{1+\left(\frac{T}{T_{c}}\right)^{2}}\Bigg{]}.$$
(2)

The lower critical field is therefore determined to
H_(c1)(0 K) = 8.3   ± 0.4 mT with a transition temperature of 39.3 ± 1.3
K. The error bars in Fig. 3(a) are the standard deviations from
approximately ten different experimental measurements of five samples of
the lower critical field at each temperature. MgB₂ has a comparable
lower critical field [43, 44, 45].

The temperature dependence of H_(c2)(T) has two regimes which we fit
independently with the model (2). The high-temperature, low critical
field regime has a critical field of H_(c2)^(′) (0 K) = 9 T and
transition temperature of T_(highT) = 41 K, while the low-temperature,
high critical field regime is fit

Figure 3: Lower critical field H_(c1)(T) in (a) and the upper critical
fields H_(c2)(T) in (b) as a function of temperature. The upper critical
fields are fit with two different curves, each representing a different
magnetic phase. (c) The paramagnetic fit parameter n(T) representing the
magnetization per unit cell is plotted as a function of temperature. A
change in slope occurs around 33 K, and at T_(lowT), close to
T_(crossT) = T_(M) = 12 K, likely the crossover between the two magnetic
phases.

Figure 2: (a) Magnetic field modulated microwave absorption spectroscopy
of lithiated FeSe hydroxide at different dc fields. The spectra are
shifted vertically for clarity. The flat lines on the high-temperature
side of the scans indicate that there is no change in the microwave
absorption. The two distinct peaks with an onset at 38 K and
approximately 35 K indicate the presence of two well-defined
superconducting phases. The large background around 15 K is attributed
to a variety of dissipation mechanisms as found earlier (see main text).
(b) Chirality characteristic of a superconductor. (c) Hysteresis loop (M
vs H) at 1.8 K, virgin curve to 9 T, down branch to −9 T, and up branch
to 9 T (see arrows). The line in between the two branches is the
paramagnetic fit (see text). (d) M vs H hysteresis after subtraction of
the fitted paramagnetic contribution; this curve resembles the typical
shape of superconducting hysteresis curves and, by fitting a stretched
exponential, H_(c2)(T) for each curve is found. (e) Zero-field (red) and
field-cooled (black) curves were obtained with 30-Oe dc applied field.
The separation point of the ZFC-FC curves at 40 K determines the
superconducting transition temperature. A change in the slope around 18
K on both branches indicates the possible onset of magnetic order.

with a critical field of H_(c2)^(II) (0 K) = 120 T and a transition
temperature of T_(lowT) = 17 K [Fig. 3(b)]. An experimentally observable
magnetic crossover can be seen in Fig. 3(b), 5 K lower, at T_(M) = 12 K
at which the H_(c2)(T) curvature changes similar to low-temperature
magnetic superconductors and to several related theoretical
publications, which implies a change in magnetic ordering at this
observed crossover temperature, T_(M) = 12 K [10, 46, 47].

H_(c2)^(I) (0 K) = 9 T, derived from the high-temperature region, is
comparable to the upper critical field at zero temperature obtained from
the experimental data in this regime with the
Werthamer-Helfand-Hohenberg approximation [48]. Earlier published values
for LISH are on the same order of magnitude as H_(c2)^(II) (0 K) = 120 T
[49, 50].

The superconducting coherence lengths ξ_(I, II) (T = 0) were extracted
using the Ginzburg-Landau equations [51] with Φ₀ = 2x10⁻⁷ G cm²:

$$\xi(T=0)=\left(\frac{\Phi_{0}}{2\pi\mu_{0}H_{c2,\ T=0}}\right)^{1/2}.$$
(3)

ξ_(I) = 5.95 nm and ξ_(II) = 1.63 nm are at least 15 times smaller than
the structural characteristic length (91 ± 7 nm) obtained from XRD as
described previously. Since H_(c2)^(I) (0 K) = 9 T is the smaller of the
two upper critical fields, ξ_(I) calculated using H_(c2)^(I)(0 K)
represents an upper limit for the SC coherence length. This implies that
the structural information obtained with XRD is an average over a length
scale which is much larger (∼15 times) than the longest superconducting
length scale. Therefore the material appears structurally uniform while
it is inhomogeneous on the length scales relevant to superconductivity,
as shown by the two MFMMS peaks at T_(SC2) = 35 K and T_(MFMMS, 1) = 38
K. It is noteworthy that transport and susceptibility measurements are
intrinsically unable to detect the various phases in the type of sample
presented here.

## IV Conclusion

The highest transition temperature determined by MFMMS, T_(MFMMS, 1) =
38 K, is in agreement with the transition temperature determined from
the ZFC-FC curves and the analysis of the upper critical fields. This
implies a superconducting transition of [(Li_(1 − x)Fe_(x))OH]FeSe at
T_(SC1) = 40 ± 2 K in agreement with the literature. The upper critical
fields suggest a magnetic transition at the crossover temperature T_(M)
= 12 K. The MFMMS data are not conclusive in that temperature range.

Remarkably, the upper critical field at zero temperature is enhanced
more than one order of magnitude by the magnetic ordering. Enhancements
of H_(c2)(T) of smaller magnitudes have been observed previously in
antiferromagnetic and ferromagnetic superconductors [52, 53, 54]. A
recent neutron powder diffraction study [24] of
(⁷Li_(0.82)Fe_(0.18)OD)FeSe found no evidence for an antiferromagnetic
ordering although ferromagnetic order could not be excluded, while the
theoretical results of Liu _et al._ show the coexistence of
ferromagnetism and superconductivity [55]. This together with our
experiment suggests that the magnetic order below T_(M) = 12 K in LISH
is ferromagnetic.

In summary, we found two clear and distinct transition temperatures
within structurally homogeneous LISH. This has implications for new
unconventional doped superconductors which are inhomogeneous on
sufficiently small length scales. In-depth analysis of the magnetometry
data implies that the superconducting phase coexists with a magnetic
order, below T_(M) = 12 K. This magnetic order is consistent with
ferromagnetism and greatly enhances the critical field of the
superconducting state. Ferromagnetism-enhanced critical fields were
previously observed in literature in other materials but the enhancement
we found in LISH is significantly larger. This opens the possibility of
tuning critical fields in superconductors using functional materials in
which superconductivity and ferromagnetism coexist.

## Acknowledgments

We gratefully acknowledge the financial support by the German Research
Foundation (DFG) Grant No. JO257/7-1. Research at University of
California, San Diego is supported by AFOSR Grant No. FA9550-14-1-0202.

## References

* Schmid [1994]H. Schmid, Ferroelectrics **162**, 317 (1994). * Hirsch
_et al._ [2015]J. E. Hirsch, M. B. Maple, and F. Marsiglio, Physica C
**514**, 1 (2015). * Ohtomo and Hwang [2004]A. Ohtomo and H. Y. Hwang,
Nature (London) **427**, 423 (2004). * Li _et al._ [2011]L. Li, C.
Richter, J. Mannhart, and R. C. Ashoori, Nat. Phys. **7**, 762 (2011). *
de la Venta _et al._ [2013]J. de la Venta, S. Wang, J. G. Ramirez, and
I. K. Schuller, Appl. Phys. Lett. **102**, 122404 (2013). * Chevrel _et
al._ [1971]R. Chevrel, M. Sergent, and Prigent, J. Solid State Chem.
**3**, 515 (1971). * Matthias _et al._ [1972]B. T. Matthias, M. Marezio,
E. Corenzwit, A. S. Cooper, and H. E. Barz, Science **175**, 1465
(1972). * Fischer _et al._ [1975]O. Fischer, A. Treyvaud, R. Chevrel,
and M. Sergent, Solid State Commun. **17**, 721 (1975). * Butera _et
al._ [2001]A. Butera, A. Fainstein, E. Winkler, and J. Tallon, Phys.
Rev. B **63**, 054442 (2001). * Eisaki _et al._ [1994]H. Eisaki, H.
Takagi, R. J. Cava, B. Batlogg, J. J. Krajewski, W. F. Peck, Jr., K.
Mizuhashi, J. O. Lee, and S. Uchida, Phys. Rev. B **50**, 647 (1994). *
Anton _et al._ [2016]E.-M. Anton, S. Granville, A. Engel, S. V. Chong,
M. Governale, U. Zulicke, A. G. Moghaddam, H. J. Trodahl, F. Natali, S.
Vezian, and B. J. Ruck, Phys. Rev. B **94**, 024106 (2016). * Homma _et
al._ [1986]H. Homma, C. S. L. Chun, G.-G. Zheng, and I. K. Schuller,
Phys. Rev. B **33**, 3562 (1986). * Schuller and Homma [1987]I. K.
Schuller and H. Homma, MRS Bull. **12**, 18 (1987). * Kobayashi _et al._
[2000]H. Kobayashi, A. Kobayashi, and P. Cassoux, Chem. Soc. Rev.
**29**, 325 (2000). * Coronado _et al._ [2010]E. Coronado, C.
Marti-Gastaldo, E. Navarro-Moratalla, A. Ribera, S. J. Blundell, and P.
J. Baker, Nat. Chem. **2**, 1031 (2010). * Drew _et al._ [2018]A. J.
Drew, C. Niedermayer, P. J. Baker, F. L. Pratt, S. J. Blundell, T.
Lancaster, R. H. Liu, G. Wu, X. H. Chen, I. Watanabe, V. K.

Malik, A. Dubroka, M. Rossle, K. W. Kim, C. Baines, and C. Bernhard,
Nat. Mater. **8**, 310 (2009). * [17] E. Slooten, T. Naka, A. Gasparini,
Y. K. Huang, and A. de Visser, Phys. Rev. Lett. **103**, 097003
(2009). * [18] C. T. Wolowits, B. D. White, and M. B. Maple, Physica C
**514**, 113 (2015). * [19] U. Pachmayr, F. Nitsche, H. Luetkens, S.
Kamusella, F. Bruckner, R. Sarkar, H.-H. Klauss, and D. Johrendt, Angew.
Chem. Int. Ed. **54**, 293 (2015). * [20] X. F. Lu, N. Z. Wang, H. Wu,
Y. P. Wu, D. Zhao, X. Z. Zeng, X. G. Luo, T. Wu, W. Bao, G. H. Zhang, F.
Q. Huang, Q. Z. Huang, and X. H. Chen, Nat. Mater. **14**, 325 (2015). *
[21] U. Pachmayr and D. Johrendt, Chem. Commun. **51**, 4689 (2015). *
[22] Y. P. Wu, D. Zhao, X. R. Lian, X. F. Lu, N. Z. Wang, X. G. Luo, X.
H. Chen, and T. Wu, Phys. Rev. B **91**, 125107 (2015). * [23] F.
Nejadastrari and Z. M. Stadnik, J. Alloys Compd. **652**, 470 (2015). *
[24] J. W. Lynn, X. Zhou, C. K. H. Borg, S. R. Saha, J. Paglione, and E.
E. Rodriguez, Phys. Rev. B **92**, 060510(R) (2015). * [25] H. Sun, D.
N. Woodruff, S. J. Cassidy, G. M. Allcroft, S. J. Sedlmaier, A. L.
Thompson, P. A. Bingham, S. D. Forder, S. Cartenet, N. Mary, S. Ramos,
F. R. Foronda, B. H. Williams, X. Li, S. J. Blundell, and S. J. Clarke,
Inorg. Chem. **54**, 1958 (2015). * [26] X. F. Lu, N. Z. Wang, G. H.
Zhang, X. G. Luo, Z. M. Ma, B. Lei, F. Q. Huang, and X. H. Chen, Phys.
Rev. B **89**, 020507 (2014). * [27] S. H. Glarum, J. H. Marshall, and
L. F. Schneemeyer, Phys. Rev. B **37**, 7491 (1988). * [28] S. Guenon,
J. G. Ramirez, A. C. Basaran, J. Wampler, M. Thiemens, S. Taylor, and I.
K. Schuller, Sci. Rep. **4**, 7333 (2014). * [29] J. G. Ramirez, A. C.
Basaran, J. de la Venta, J. Pereiro, and I. K. Schuller, Rep. Prog.
Phys. **77**, 093902 (2014). * [30] J. Stankowski and B. Czyzak, Appl.
Magn. Reson. **2**, 465 (1991). * [31] B. F. Kim, J. Bohandy, K.
Moorjani, and F. J. Adrian, J. Appl. Phys. **63**, 2029 (1988). * [32]
H. M. Rietfeld, J. Appl. Cryst. **2**, 65 (1969). * [33] L. B. McCusker,
R. B. Von Dreele, D. E. Cox, D. Louer, and P. Scardi, J. Appl.
Crystallogr. **32**, 36 (1999). * [34] A. Coelho, Topas-Academic,
Version 4.1, Coelho Software, Brisbane (2007). * [35] M. A. Beno, L.
Soderholm, D. W. Capone II, D. G. Hinks, J. D. Jorgensen, J. D. Grace,
I. K. Schuller, C. U. Segre, and K. Zhang, Appl. Phys. Lett. **51**, 57
(1987). * [36] D. Yazici, A. C Basaran, J. G. Ramirez, I. K. Schuller,
and M. B. Maple, Supercond. Sci. Technol. **29**, 085015 (2016). * [37]
J. Bohandy, F. J. Adrian, B. F. Kim, K. Moorjani, R. D. Shull, L. J.
Swartzendruber, L. H. Bennett, and J. S. Wallace, J. Supercond. **1**,
191 (1988). * [38] K. Moorjani, J. Bohandy, F. J. Adrian, B. F. Kim, R.
D. Shull, C. K. Chiang, L. J. Swartzendruber, and L. H. Bennett, Phys.
Rev. B **36**, 4036 (1987). * [39] N. W. Ashcroft and N. D. Mermin,
_Solid State Physics_ (Holt, Rinehart and Winston, New York, 1976), p.
655. * [40] J. W. Rohlf, _Modern Physics from A to Z_ (Wiley, New York,
1994), p. 646. * [41] X. Zhu, H. Yang, L. Fang, G. Mu, and H.-H. Wen,
Supercond. Sci. Technol. **21**, 105001 (2008). * [42] L. Fang, Y. Wang,
P. Y. Zou, L. Tang, Z. Xu, H. Chen, C. Dong, L. Shan, and H. H. Wen,
Phys. Rev. B **72**, 014534 (2005). * [43] A. D. Caplin, Y. Bugoslavsky,
L. F. Cohen, L. Cowey, J. Driscoll, J. Moore, and G. K. Perkins,
Supercond. Sci. Technol. **16**, 176 (2002). * [44] K.-H. Muller, G.
Fuchs, H. Handstein, K. Nenkov, V. N. Narozhnyi, and D. Eckert, J.
Alloys Compd. **322**, L10 (2001). * [45] S. L. Bud’ko, C. Petrovic, G.
Lapertot, C. E. Cunningham, P. C. Canfield, M.-H. Jung, and A. H.
Lacerda, Phys. Rev. B **63**, 220503 (2001). * [46] E. I. Blount and C.
M. Varma, Phys. Rev. Lett. **42**, 1079 (1979) * [47] O. Fischer,
_Ternary Superconductors_, edited by G. K. Shenoy, B. D. Dunlap, and F.
Y. Fradin (Elsevier North Holland, Inc., New York, 1981), p. 303. * [48]
N. R. Werthamer, E. Helfand, and P. C. Hohenberg, Phys. Rev. **147**,
295 (1966). * [49] C. Wang, X. Yi, Y. Qiu, Q. Tang, X. Zhang, Y. Luo,
and B. Yu, Supercond. Sci. Technol. **29**, 055003 (2016). * [50] Z.
Wang, J. Yuan, J. Wosnitzal, H. Zhou, Y. Huang, K. Jin, F. Zhou, X.
Dong, and Z. Zhao, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter **29**, 025701 (2017). *
[51] C. S. Yadav and P. L. Paulose, New J. Phys. **11**, 103046
(2009). * [52] H. C. Hamaker, L. D. Woolf, H. B. MacKay, Z. Fisk, and M.
B. Maple, Solid State Commun. **32**, 289 (1979). * [53] O. Fischer, M.
Ishikawa, M. Pelizzone, and A. Treyvaud, J. Phys., Colloq. **40**, c5-89
(1979). * [54] K. Machida, K. Nokura, and T. Matsubara, Phys. Rev. B
**22**, 2307 (1980). * [55] D.-Y. Liu, Z. Sun, and L.-J. Zou, New J.
Phys. **19**, 023028 (2017).
