# In-plane thermoelectric power of _c_-axis-oriented Sr1-_x_Nd_x_CuO2-_d
thin films

Nobuyuki Sugii and H. Yamauchi

Superconductivity Research Laboratory, International Superconductivity
Technology Center, 10-13 Shinonome 1-chome, Koto-ku, Tokyo 135, Japan

17 February 1994; revised manuscript received 6 June 1994

###### Abstract

We measured the in-plane thermoelectric-power coefficients (_S_) of
_c_-axis-oriented Sr1-_x_Nd_x_CuO2-_d_ (0 <= x <= 0.125) thin films
deposited by means of a pulsed-laser deposition technique. The sign of S
was negative for all the samples deposited on SrTiO3 substrates and its
absolute value decreased with increasing x. The value of S for
Sr1-_x_Nd_x_CuO2-_d_ with x = 0.125 was demonstrated to be strongly
dependent on the substrate material on which the _a_-axis length
depended. On the other hand, the value of S for Sr1-_x_Nd_x_CuO2-_d_
with x = 0.05 was found to be rather weakly dependent on the _a_-axis
length. These observations were discussed based on bond-valence-sum
calculations. The variation in S of the x = 0.125 sample was attributed
to the change in the electronic structure.

## I Introduction

Superconducting cuprates of the "infinite-layer" structure such as
(Sr,_L_)CuO2 (_L_ = Nd, Pr, or La) were synthesized under high pressure
and found to exhibit _n_-type superconductivity with transition
temperatures (_Tc_’s) around 40 K.1,2 Since the infinite-layer structure
is simple compared with the structures of any other known cuprate
superconductors, infinite-layer cuprates would be useful for the study
on the nature of high-temperature superconductivity. So far, such
compounds have been synthesized only by high-pressure synthesis and
vapor-deposition techniques, and no single crystals of the compounds
have been obtained. Therefore, for the moment, to prepare high-quality
thin-film samples is one of the best ways for the study on the nature of
infinite-layer compounds.

There have been several reports on the fabrication of thin films of
(Sr,_L_)CuO2.3-5 In our previous work,6 we synthesized single-phase
Sr1-_x_Nd_x_CuO2-_d_ (SNCO) thin-film samples, and found that the
superconducting property of the film was improved when fabricated on a
Pr2CuO4 (PCO) "underlayer" grown on a SrTiO3 (STO) substrate. This
result suggested that the lattice matching between the film and the
substrate is important for the fabrication of high-quality SNCO thin
films. This is probably a consequence of the fact that the Cu-O bond
length which is related to the _a_-axis length, i.e., the lattice length
along the plane in the infinite-layer structure, is strongly dependent
on the carrier concentration and electronic structure. For the SNCO
films, the _a_-axis length indeed changed, as the a axis of the
underlayer material changed.6 When a SNCO film was deposited on an
underlayer material having the a axis shorter than that of the film
material, the film would receive a compressive stress, and vice versa.
It is known that, as electrons as charge carriers are doped into the
CuO2 planes, the Cu-O bond length should be elongated. Therefore, such
stress in the lattice plane would hinder electron doping in and
metallization of the SNCO films.

In this study, we measure thermoelectric-power coefficients in the _ab_
plane of SNCO, and study the dependences on the Nd content and the
lattice dimension in the _ab_ plane. The change in S due to the lattice
stress is discussed based on bond-valence-sum calculations.

## II Experiments

The thin-film samples were prepared by a pulsed-laser deposition
technique (PLD). An ArF excimer laser was used as the light source. The
targets were prepared by a solid-state reaction method. SrTiO3 (STO)
single-crystal wafers with the (100) orientation was used as substrate
materials. The substrate temperature was in the range 550-700degC. The
distance between target and substrate was set at 100 mm. The deposition
was performed in an oxygen gas of 0.13 Pa or a high-purity ozone gas of
0.013 Pa. The number of laser pulse shots to yield a film thickness of
approximately 450 A was 3 x 104. After deposition, the film was kept in
a vacuum for half an hour and cooled at a rate of 20degC/min. The
background pressure was lower than 10-4 Pa. Several film samples were
prepared on each of different kinds of underlayers of L2CuO4 (_L_ = Pr,
Nd, and Sm), all of which have a _T_’-type structure and formed on (100)
STO substrate materials. The thickness of an underlayer was in the range
70-150 A. The chemical composition of several samples were determined by
inductively coupled plasma spectrometry and were confirmed to be
stoichiometric within an experimental error of  5

The crystallographic properties of films were investigated by
x-ray-diffraction analysis. Conventional _th_-_2th_ measurements were
performed by a two-circle diffractometer using Cu_K_a_ radiation. The
lattice constants were measured by a four-circle diffractometer using
Mo_K_a_ radiation.

Thermoelectric-power coefficients for the samples were measured by a dc
method. The temperature gradient (D_T_) in the sample was measured using
two pairs of Cu-Constantan thermocouples. The thermocouples were at
tached with Ag paste onto the Au electrodes sputter-deposited on the
sample. The magnitude of D_T_ was kept in the range 0.3-4 K during the
measurement. To eliminate the effects from the reference leads (Cu
wires), the absolute thermoelectric power of Cu was subtracted from the
measured thermoelectric voltage. In general, for a thin-film sample, the
as-measured value is not the intrinsic one because it contains
contributions from both the underlayer and the substrate material. For a
multiband system, S may be given by [7]

$$S = \sum\limits_{i}\ \left[ {\frac{\sigma_{i}}{\sigma}} \right]S_{i}\ ,$$

where s is the total conductivity, and s_(i) and S_(i) are the
conductivity and the thermoelectric-power coefficient for band i.
Actually, the resistivities of the STO substrate and the underlayer
material [_L_2 CuO4 (_L_ = Pr, Nd, and Sm)] were more than 2 orders of
magnitude higher than those for SNCO films with the Nd contents higher
than 0.05. Therefore, in the present samples, the contributions from the
underlayer and the substrate material are considered to be negligibly
small.

## III Results

### X-ray-diffraction analysis

All the samples with x <= 0.125 were found to consist of single-phase
infinite-layer compounds. The x-ray-diffraction pattern for a typical
sample is shown in Fig. 1. The peaks indexed with 00l are those from the
film. The peaks marked with "U" and "S" are those from the underlayer
and the substrate material, respectively. No peaks due to impurity
phases were observed. We often observed Laue functional intensity
oscillations around the film peaks. This suggested that the surface
smoothness and the crystallinity of the film were excellent, with the
film thickness being as thin as 500 A.

Figure 2 shows the variations in the lattice constants with the Nd
content, x, for a film deposited on a bare (100) STO substrate. With
increasing x, the _a_-axis length became longer and the _c_-axis length
shorter. The solubility limit was around x = 0.125. As we previously
report, [4] the _a_-axis length was always shorter than those of the
bulk samples prepared under high pressure. [1] When films were deposited
on underlayers which were formed on STO, the _a_-axis length varied in
correspondence with that of the underlayer material. It has been
revealed that, the a axis of an underlayer material is close to that of
the corresponding bulk material and the _a_-axis of a SNCO film is
dependent on that of the underlayer, even when the thickness of the SNCO
film is thicker than that of the underlayer. It suggests that the
relaxation of the lattice mismatch between the SNCO film and the
underlayer is less easy to occur than that between the underlayer
material and STO.

### Thermoelectric-power coefficients of the SNCO films with various Nd
contents

The temperature dependences of thermoelectric-power coefficients (_S_)
for the SNCO films deposited on bare STO substrates are shown in Fig. 3.
The sign of S for all the samples was negative and the absolute value of
S decreased as x increased, but saturated for x >= 0.10. All the
_S_-vs_-_T_ curves exhibit broad peaks and the values of S looks to
approach to zero below few degrees (in K). The peak temperature
decreased with increasing x. These behaviors observed for the SNCO films
are similar to those observed for Nd2CuO4-_x_F_x_ of the _T_’ structure.
[8]

In Fig. 4, the temperature dependence of electrical resistivity is shown
for the SNCO films deposited on bare STO substrates. Near room
temperature electrical resistivity decreased with increasing the Nd
content. No samples exhibited metallic behavior. The samples with x =
0.10 and 0.125 exhibited superconductivity with the onset points in the
resistivity-vs-temperature curves around 10 and 20 K, respectively.
Nonetheless, zero-resistance states were not observed at temperatures
above

Figure 1: X-ray-diffraction pattern for Sr6.99Nd0.05CuO2−6 thin film
with an Nd2CuO4 underlayer deposited on a (100) SrTiO3 substrate. The
peaks indexed with 00l are those from the film. The peaks marked with
“U” and “S” are those from the underlayer and the substrate material,
respectively.

Figure 2: The lattice constants for Sr1−_x_ Nd2CuO2−6 thin films as a
function of Nd content, x. The films were deposited directly on SrTiO3
substrates.

2 K for both the samples. The resistivity data for the sample with x =
0.05 showed an anomalous temperature dependence: resistivity decreased
as the temperature decreased from 230 to 60 K. However, there were no
anomalies in the temperature dependence of thermoelectric-power
coefficient. We suppose that the anomaly in the
resistivity-vs-temperature relation is due to the crossover of different
temperature dependences of resistivity for the matrix and the grain
boundaries or the defects. Similar anomalies have been reported by
Norton _et al._9 for reduced thin-film samples of infinite-layer
Sr1-_x_CuO2-_b_.

### 4.3 Thermoelectric-power coefficients of the SNCO films formed on
various underlayer materials

SNCO films with x = 0.125 were deposited on a bare STO and two kinds of
underlayer materials, Pr2CuO4 (PCO) and Nd2CuO4 (NCO). The _a_-axis
lengths of the three SNCO films deposited on the PCO and the NCO
underlayer and a bare STO were 3.946(2), 3.931(2), and 3.918(1) A,
respectively. (The standard deviations of the last significant digit is
shown in parentheses.) The _a_-axis length of an infinite-layer SNCO
film deposited on a PCO underlayer was found to be expanded up to a
value close to the _a_-axis length of bulk SNCO.1

The temperature dependence of electrical resistivity is shown in Fig. 5
for these samples. The films on the PCO underlayer and on a bare STO
exhibited superconductivity. The film on the PCO underlayer exhibited a
metallic behavior above 100 K. The zero-resistance state was observed
below 7 K. However, the film on the NCO underlayer did not show
superconductivity. The superconducting properties of SNCO films were
very sensitive to the sample preparation conditions. The poor
reproducibility in the samples’ superconducting property (or electrical
resistance) is supposed to be due to defect formation, as often observed
in thin film samples of SNCO or infinite-layer Sr1-_x_CuO2-_b_.10,11
Nevertheless, the thermoelectric-power coefficient is thought to be a
good measure to examine electron conduction because thermoelectric power
is measured in an open-circuit system and expected to be less sensitive
to defects or grain boundaries12 than electrical resistance or Hall
effect.

The temperature dependences of S for these samples are shown in Fig. 6.
The values of S were found to be negative throughout the temperature
range between 300 and 4.2 K for the films with x = 0.125 deposited on an
NCO underlayer and on a bare STO. On the contrary, those for the film
deposited on a PCO underlayer were positive. The value of S increased in
the order of cases without underlayer, with an NCO underlayer, and with
a PCO underlayer material. It may indicate that the carrier densities in
these samples increased in this order. Note that, in the case of
Nd2-_x_Ce_x_CuO4 single crystals,13 as x increased, the value of S
changed from a large negative to a small positive value. Moreover, the
_S_-vs

Figure 4: Temperature dependence of resistivity for the
Sr1−_x_Nd_CuO2−_δ_ thin films with various Nd contents. The films were
deposited directly on SrTiO3 substrates.

Figure 5: Temperature dependence of resistivity for the
Sr0.xSrNd0.125CuO2−_δ_ thin films deposited on SrTiO3 substrates with a
Pr2CuO4 or Nd2CuO4 underlayer or without an underlayer. The _a_-axis
lengths of these films were 3.946(2), 3.931(2), and 3.918(1) Å,
respectively. The standard deviation of the last significant digit is
shown in parentheses.

Figure 3: Temperature dependence of thermoelectric-power coefficient
(_S_) for the Sr1−_x_Nd_CuO2−_δ_ thin films with various Nd contents.
The films were deposited directly on SrTiO3 substrates.

temperature curves look to depend on the underlayer materials,
indicating that the electronic structure of SNCO would have been changed
as the lattice dimension of underlayer material varied.

SNCO film samples with a low Nd content (_x_ = 0.05) were fabricated on
various underlayer materials: PCO, NCO, and Sm2CuO4 (SCO). The SNCO film
was also deposited on a bare STO. The _a_-axis lengths of the SNCO films
deposited on PCO, NCO, SCO, and STO were determined to be 3.929(3),
3.933(1), 3.909(3), and 3.907(1) A, respectively. Compared with the
lattice dimension of the bulk SNCO with the same Nd content,1 the
lattice mismatch between the SNCO film and the underlayer material was
the smallest for the film deposited on NCO. The temperature dependence
of electrical resistivity is shown in Fig. 7 for those samples. All the
samples exhibit semiconductive behavior. There is no systematic change
in the electrical resisitivity with respect to the lattice dimension of
the underlayer material.

The temperature dependences of S for these films are shown in Fig. 8.
All the _S_-vs-temperature curves were more or less parallel being
located within a range as narrow as +-20 _m_V/K. The difference of 20
_m_V/K in S corresponds to only a small difference of 0.01 in x (around
x = 0.05) as estimated from the change of S with respect to x given in
Fig. 3. This indicates that the differences in the carrier density among
the samples were negligibly small.

## IV Discussion

### Temperature dependence of S

There are several models to explain the nature of _S_[12]: the metallic
diffusion,14 the semiconductor band,12 the variable-range hopping,14 and
the correlated hopping model.15 Moreover, the contribution from the
phonon drag16,17 and the magnon drag16,17 should be counted. When the
data of electrical resistivity are taken into account, the metallic
diffusion model is not applicable except for the sample with x = 0.125
deposited on the PCO underlayer. The semiconductor band model is not
applicable either because the absolute value of S should increase with
decreasing temperature in this model12 being contrary to the
experimental data. However, this model may be applicable at high
temperatures, because the absolute value of S decreases with increasing
temperature at high temperatures, e.g., at temperatures higher than 260
K for the x = 0.0 sample. We employed the variable-range hopping model
for the samples with x = 0.0, 0.05, and 0.075. In this model,
resistivity is expected to vary following the relation

lnρ ∝ T^(−α) ,

where r is resistivity and a = $\frac{1}{3}$ ($\frac{1}{4}$) for
two-dimensional

Figure 8: Temperature dependence of thermoelectric-power coefficient for
the Sr0.95Nd0.05CuO1−6 thin films deposited on SrTiO3 substrates with a
Pr2CuO4, Nd2CuO4, or Sm2CuO4 underlayer or without an underlayer.

Figure 6: Temperature dependence of thermoelectric-power coefficient for
the Sr0.875Nd0.125CuO2−8 thin films deposited on SrTiO3 substrates with
a Pr2CuO4 or Nd2CuO4 underlayer or without an underlayer.

Figure 7: Temperature dependence of resistivity for the
Sr0.95Nd0.05CuO2−8 thin films deposited on SrTiO3 substrates with a
Pr2CuO4 or Sm2CuO4 underlayer or without an underlayer. The _a_-axis
lengths of these films were 3.929(3), 3.933(1), 3.909(3), and 3.907(1)
Å, respectively.

(three-dimensional) transport.[14] The thermoelectric-power coefficient
is predicted[18] to vary as

$$S \propto \sqrt {T}\;\;.$$
(3)

The temperature dependence of resisitivity can be fitted based on the
two-dimensional model only for the sample with x = 0.0, as shown in Fig.
9. However, it is difficult to identify carriers which dominates
electrical conduction in such a system with low carrier density as the
sample with x = 0.0. Figure 10 shows the plots of the absolute values of
S for the samples with x = 0.0 and 0.05 in terms of $\sqrt {T}$. The
curve fitting shown in Fig. 10 is poor. Thus, we concluded that the
variable-range hopping model is not applicable.

We consider that the correlated hopping model may be applicable in a
high-temperature region where the thermoelectric power is independent of
temperature. The formation of a peak in Fig. 3 could be interpreted as a
contribution from the magnon drag effect. The shift of the peak along
the temperature axis is likely to correspond to the change in the Neel
temperature due to electron doping, as was observed in Nd2-xCe2CuO4.[19]
Phonon drag peaks are usually observed in metallic compounds.[12]
Therefore, phonon-drag contributions in the present data would be
negligible. The conduction mechanism was considered to be more
complicated for the samples with x = 0.10 and 0.125 because of an
anticipated crossover in the conduction mechanism from one due to
hopping electrons to another due to itinerant electrons. At present, no
perfect models which can explain the behavior of thermoelectric power of
the high-_T__c_ superconducting materials are available.

### Composition dependence of S

The thermoelectric-power coefficients at 300 K for all the samples are
plotted in Fig. 7 as a function of the Nd content, x. The correlated
hopping mechanism[15] based on the Hubbard model gives S as follows at
the high-temperature limit:

$$S = - \frac{k_{B}}{|e|}\ln\left[ \frac{2(1 - n)}{n} \right]\;,$$
(4)

where k_(B) is the Boltzmann constant, e the elementary charge, and n
the number of electrons per Cu site. Assuming a relation n = x in Eq.
(4), a theoretical curve for S is shown in Fig. 11 by the solid line.
Surprisingly, the theoretical curve is quite parallel to the
experimental data. The difference between the theoretical and
experimental values is nearly independent of temperature being
approximately equal to 260 _m_V/K. A similar behavior was observed in
the Nd2CuO4-_x_Fx system.[8] The origin of this is not clearly known at
present.

### Effect of Cu-O bond length

Now we discuss the effect of stress caused by the lattice mismatch
between the film and the underlayer material on both carrier doping and
electron transport. The bond-valence-sum calculation is a useful tool to
get information on the valences of constituent ions, the lattice dis

Figure 10: Plots of the absolute values of S vs square root of
temperature for the Sr1-_x_Nd_CuO2-_δ_ films with x = 0.0 and 0.05
deposited on SrTiO3 substrates without an underlayer.

Figure 9: ln_σ_ vs _T_−1/3 being based on the two-dimensional
variable-range hopping mechanism for the SrCuO2−_δ_ film deposited on
SrTiO3 substrate without an underlayer.

tortion and the charge transfer between ions in the lattice using
experimental crystallographic data.20 The bond-valence-sum may be given
as follows according to Brown and Shannon:21

$$V_{i} = \sum\limits_{j}\exp\,\left[ \frac{R_{0} - R_{ij}}{B} \right]\,$$

where V_(i) is the bond-valence sum of atom i, R0 represents the
standard bond length between atoms i and j of unit valence, R_(j) is the
measured bond length, and B is a constant equal to 0.37 A. The value of
R0 used for (Sr, Nd)-O was the mean value weighted with the
compositional ratio of Sr and Nd ions of the values of R0 for Sr-O and
Nd-O, i.e., 2.118 and 2.105 A, respectively. Because R0 for Cu ion
changes with the valence of Cu, the linear interpolation between Cu(I)-O
and Cu(II)-O based on the procedure developed by Brown20 was used. We
assumed that the oxygen content is 2.0 and the Cu-O sheet has a square
planar coordination. The four-circle x-ray-diffraction analysis22 for
the SNCO films with x = 0.125 deposited on a STO substrate revealed that
the oxygen site occupancy was at least 0.97, and that the Cu-O
coordination was square planar without an evident buckling and no apical
oxygen ions were coordinated.

The calculated bond-valence sums for the SNCO samples are given in
Table 1. The bond-valence sums of the Cu ion for all the samples were
smaller than the formal valences determined from the chemical formula.
This indicates a tendency that the square planar Cu-O sheets will be
easily doped with electrons. The bond-valence sum for the Cu ion
decreases with increasing the Nd content. However, the change in the
bond-valence sum looks smaller than the value expected from the change
in the amount of Nd ions. The change in the bond-valence sum due to Nd
substitution may be canceled out by the increase of compressive stress
in the lattice.

The bond-valence sum for the Cu ion in the SNCO of the same composition
decreases with increasing the _a_-axis length. It should be noted that
the bond-valence sums for ions under internal stresses differ from the
actual valences. The present result of thermoelectric-power measurements
for the samples with x = 0.05 of various _a_-axis lengths deposited on
different underlayer materials indicates that there are little
differences in the actual charges estimated from the
thermoelectric-power coefficients. It should be noted that there is
little possibility for such a self-doping mechanism as was observed in
_T_’-_L_2CuO4 (Ref. 23) to exist in the infinite-layer compounds because
there are no interstitial sites in the infinite-layer crystal,
furthermore, there is little possibility of having significant amount of
oxygen vacancies. In the case which the nominal Nd content is near the
solubility limit, the actual Nd content in the matrix crystal could be
decreased from the nominal value when the crystal is under compressive
stress by the lattice dimensional mismatch, and accordingly the
effective valence of Cu ion might be varied. However, there was little
difference between the nominal Nd content (0.125) and the value (0.117)
estimated from the four-circle x-ray diffractometry for the film sample
deposited directly on STO substrate.22 If the actual valence of the Cu
ion is not changed much, the difference in thermoelectric-power
coefficient for the samples with x = 0.125 of various _a_-axis lengths
should be interpreted by the change in electronic structure caused by a
change in the Cu-O bond length. Around the composition of x = 0.125, the
Cu-O bond length sharply affects the state of the crossover in the
conduction mechanism from one due to hopping electrons to another due to
itinerant electrons.

c c c c c c c Underlayer material & x & a (Å) & c (Å) & Cu-O & (Sr,Nd)-O
& Sr,Nd & Cu
SrTiO3 & 0.000 & 3.903 & 3.448 & 1.951 & 2.604 & 2.151 & 1.863
SrTiO3 & 0.050 & 3.907 & 3.442 & 1.954 & 2.603 & 2.151 & 1.845
SrTiO3 & 0.075 & 3.910 & 3.429 & 1.955 & 2.600 & 2.167 & 1.831
SrTiO3 & 0.100 & 3.912 & 3.425 & 1.956 & 2.599 & 2.170 & 1.826
SrTiO3 & 0.125 & 3.918 & 3.418 & 1.959 & 2.600 & 2.167 & 1.802
SrTiO3 & 0.050 & 3.907 & 3.442 & 1.954 & 2.603 & 2.151 & 1.845
Sm2CuO4 & 0.050 & 3.909 & 3.459 & 1.954 & 2.610 & 2.114 & 1.838
Nd2CuO4 & 0.050 & 3.933 & 3.443 & 1.967 & 2.614 & 2.092 & 1.743
Pr2CuO4 & 0.050 & 3.929 & 3.438 & 1.965 & 2.610 & 2.110 & 1.758
SrTiO3 & 0.125 & 3.918 & 3.418 & 1.959 & 2.600 & 2.167 & 1.802
Nd2CuO4 & 0.125 & 3.931 & 3.418 & 1.966 & 2.605 & 2.138 & 1.751
Pr2CuO4 & 0.125 & 3.946 & 3.408 & 1.973 & 2.607 & 2.124 & 1.697

Table 1: Lattice constants (_a_ and _c_), bond lengths (_R_), and
bond-valence sums (_V_) for the film samples with various Nd contents
(_x_) deposited on various underlayer materials.

Figure 11: Relationship between thermoelectric-power coefficient (_S_)
and Nd content, x, for the Sr1−_x_Nd_x_CuO2−8 films deposited on SrTiO3
substrates. The open circles represent the measured data at 300 K; the
solid line shows a theoretical curve for S on x using Eq. (4) with the
assumption of n = x; the dashed line is only the guide to the eye.

## V Conclusion

We measured the in-plane thermoelectric-power coefficients (S) of
c-axis-oriented Sr_(1 − x)Nd_(x)CuO_(2 − δ)[x ≤ 0.125] (SNCO) thin films
consisting of a single-phase infinite-layer compound. The signs of S for
the SNCO films deposited on SrTiO₃ substrates were negative and the
magnitude of S increased with increasing the Nd content. The temperature
dependence of S could not be perfectly explained by any available
models. The a-axis length of the SNCO film with the same Nd content was
dependent on the underlayer material. The value of S for the SNCO film
with x = 0.125 strongly depended on the a-axis length, but, that for the
SNCO film with x = 0.05 was weakly dependent on the a-axis length. This
strong a-axis dependence of the SNCO film with x = 0.125 indicates that
the conduction mechanism may be drastically changed by a change in the
Cu-O bond length in the vicinity of this composition.

###### Acknowledgements.

The authors wish to express their thanks to Koichi Kubo for his helpful
discussion. This work was supported by New Energy and Industry
Technology Development Organization for the Research and Development of
Industrial Science and Technology Frontier Program.

## References

* [1] M. G. Smith, A. Manthiram, J. Zhou, J. B. Goodenough, and J. T.
Markert, Nature **351**, 549 (1991). * [2] G. Er, Y. Miyamoto, F.
Kanamaru, and S. Kikkawa, Physica C **181**, 206 (1991). * [3] H.
Adachi, T. Satoh, Y. Ichikawa, K. Setsune, and K. Wasa, Physica C
**196**, 14 (1992). * [4] N. Sugii, K. Kubo, M. Ichikawa, K. Yamamoto,
H. Yamauchi, and S. Tanaka, Jpn. J. Appl. Phys. **31**, L1024 (1992). *
[5] C. Niu and C. M. Lieber, Appl. Phys. Lett. **61**, 1712 (1992). *
[6] N. Sugii, K. Matsuura, K. Kubo, K. Yamamoto, M. Ichikawa, and H.
Yamauchi, J. Appl. Phys. **74**, 4047 (1993). * [7] See, e.g., D. K. C.
MacDonald, _Thermoelectricity_ (Wiley, New York, 1962). * [8] S.
Sugiyama, K. Matsuura, M. Kosuge, H. Yamauchi, and S. Tanaka, Phys. Rev.
B **45**, 9951 (1992). * [9] D. P. Norton, B. C. Chakoumakos, E. C.
Jones, D. K. Christen, and D. H. Lowndes, Physica C **217**, 146
(1993). * [10] S. Takeno, S. Nakamura, Y. Terashima, and T. Miura,
Physica C **206**, 75 (1993). * [11] N. Sugii, M. Ichikawa, K. Hayashi,
K. Kubo, K. Yamamoto, and H. Yamauchi, Physica C **213**, 345 (1993). *
[12] A. B. Kaiser and C. Uher, in _Studies of High Temperature
Superconductors_, edited by A. V. Narlikar (Nova Science, New York,
1990), Vol. 7, pp. 1-40. * [13] X.-Q. Xu, S. J. Hagen, W. Jiang, J. L.
Peng, Z. Y. Li, and R. L. Greene, Phys. Rev. B **45**, 7356 (1992). *
[14] See, e.g., N. F. Mott and E. A. Davis, _Electronic Processes in
Non-Crystalline Materials_, 2nd. ed. (Clarendon, Oxford, 1979). * [15]
P. M. Chaikin and G. Beni, Phys. Rev. B **13**, 647 (1976). * [16] M.
Bailyn, Phys. Rev. **126**, 2040 (1962). * [17] B. Coqblin, _The
Electronic Structures of Rare-Earth Metals and Alloys: The Magnetic
Heavy Rare-Earths_ (Academic, London, 1977), pp. 605-611. * [18] I. P.
Zvyagin, Phys. Status Solidi B **58**, 443 (1973). * [19] G. M. Luke, B.
J. Sternlieb, Y. J. Uemura, J. H. Brewer, R. Kadano, R. F. Kiefl, S. R.
Kreitzman, T. M. Riseman, J. Gopalakrishnan, A. W. Sleight, M. A.
Subramanian, S. Uchi-da, H. Takagi, and Y. Tokura, Nature **338**, 49
(1989). * [20] I. D. Brown, J. Solid State Chem. **90**, 155 (1991). *
[21] I. D. Brown and R. D. Shannon, Acta. Crystallogr. A **29**, 266
(1973). * [22] N. Sugii, H. Yamauchi, and M. Izumi, Phys. Rev. B **50**,
9503 (1994). * [23] J. S. Zhou, J. Chan, and J. B. Goodenough, Phys.
Rev. B **47**, 5477 (1993).
