**Unusual hole dependence of T_(c) in HgBa₂CuO_(4 + δ)**

Q. Xiong, Y. Y. Xue, Y. Cao, F. Chen, Y. Y. Sun, J. Gibson, and C. W.
Chu

_Department of Physics and the Texas Center for Superconductivity at the
University of Houston, Houston, Texas 77204-5932_

L. M. Liu and A. Jacobson

_Department of Chemistry and the Texas Center for Superconductivity at
the University of Houston, Houston, Texas 77204-5932_

The anion doping effect on the superconducting transition temperature
(T_(c)) of HgBa₂CuO_(4 + δ) has been determined with a wide T_(c)
variation. We found a parabolic variation of T_(c) with δ over the
entire range of superconductivity. Remarkably, the dependence of T_(c)
on p (the number of holes per CuO₂) has richer features: for δ ≤ 0.28,
T_(c) is parabolic in p, but with an unusual prefactor and p = 0.72δ,
giving significantly less than two holes per oxygen; and for δ > 0.28, a
drastic departure from the parabolic T_(c)(p) occurs. Implications for
the occurrence of superconductivity in this material are discussed.

Many cuprates are known to undergo the insulator → superconductor →
"normal" metal (I→S→ NM) transition as the carrier concentration (n) of
these compounds increases continuously with doping. Superconductivity
usually occurs only over a limited n range $n_{\rm min}$ < n <
$n_{\rm max}$ and the superconducting transition temperature (T_(c))
rises above 1 K at n = $n_{\rm min}$, peaks with a T_(c) =
$T_{c}^{\rm max}$ at an optimal n ($n_{\rm op}$) and drops back to 1 K
at n = $n_{\rm max}$. In an attempt to understand the occurrence of
high-temperature superconductivity (HTS), systematic trends of evolution
of HTS with various physical parameters have been sought in these
compounds as the I→S→NM transition is induced by doping. Several
universal relationships between T_(c) and n were reported over the last
few years, as summarized schematically in Fig. 1. Based on
muon-spin-rotation (nSR) measurements, Uemura _et al._1 observed a
linear T_(c)-n_(s)/m * relation (where n_(s) is n in the superconducting
state and m * the effective mass of the carrier in the unit of
free-electron mass) for wide variety of HTS’s with n ≤ $n_{\rm op}$
[Fig. 1(a)]. After examining the pressure effect on T_(c), we2 proposed
a universal T_(c)-X dependence (where X is a yet-to-be determined
parameter that depends on n, m *, and pressure), qualitatively extending
the observation of Uemura _et al._1 to n > $n_{\rm op}$. On the other
hand, Presland _et al._3 found that T_(c) /$T_{c}^{\rm max}$ varies
parabolically with the number of carriers per CuO₂ (p), i.e., T_(c)
/$T_{c}^{\rm max}$ = 1 - 82.6(p - 0.16)2 where p is determined from
valence balance3 or the thermoelectric power (TEP) measurements at room
temperature.4, 5 Later, Zhang and Sato6 proposed a universal T_(c)
/$T_{c}^{\rm max}$-p relation where T_(c) /$T_{c}^{\rm max}$ exhibits a
plateau for 0.12 ≤ p ≤ 0.25, following the analysis of a number of
selected data sets [Fig. 1(c)]. Very recently, Niedermayer _et al._5 and
Uemura _et al._7 found that as n (which is ∝ 8) increases, although the
T_(c) of the overdoped (n > $n_{\rm op}$) Tl₂Ba₂CuO_(6 + δ) decreases as
expected, n_(s) /m * determined by μSR decreases instead, in strong
contrast to all the T_(c)(p) relations mentioned above. By combining
results of the underdoped (n < $n_{\rm op}$) YBa₂Cu₃O_(6.5 + δ) and
La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)O_(4 + δ),1 a double-valued T_(c)-n_(s)/m * relation was
proposed5 [Fig. 1(d)].

Although all universal relations shown in Fig. 1 appear to be an
extension of the linear T_(c)-n_(s)/m * relation for n < $n_{\rm op}$
observed by Uemura _et al._,1 the details of the models are different on
the overdoped side and may depend on the particular method (e.g., cation
substitution, titration, oxygen content, or TEP) used to extract p. This

Figure 1: (a) The measured T_(c)-n_(s)/m * correlation (Ref. 1), (b) the
prosed T_(c)-X correlation (Ref. 2); (c) —— the proposed parabolic
correlation in Ref. 3, — — the proposed correlation in Ref. 6, (d) the
T_(c)-n_(s)/m * correlation in Ref. 5.

is not surprising, since many factors, such as self-doping, cation
stoichiometry, and defects, may affect these parameters differently.
Furthermore, in no case has the obtained $T_{\rm c}$ covered full range
through anion doping only. It is known[8] that cation substitution can
introduce disorders that may complicate the $T_{\rm c}(p)$ dependence.

In this paper, we report on a systematic study of the $T_{\rm c}$
evolution of HgBa₂CuO_(4 + δ) (Hg 1:2:0:1) over a wide anion-doping
range 0.03 ≤ δ ≤ 0.4. We have measured $T_{\rm c}$ together with δ which
was determined by thermogravimetric analysis (TGA), the carrier
concentration p from TEP at 290 K, and the lattice parameters a and c.
We observed that $T_{\rm c}$ can be changed parabolically from 1 K to a
$T_{\rm c}^{\rm max}$=97 K and back to ∼ 20 K as δ increases from 0.03
to 0.4. This corresponds to a wide variation of
$T_{\rm c}/T_{\rm c}^{\rm max}$ achieved by oxygen doping alone.
$T_{\rm c}$ was found to change also with p parabolically, i.e.,
$T_{\rm c}$ = 97 K [1 − 50(p − 0.16)²], similarly to the relation
previously reported,[5] but only when p is between 0.03 and 0.22.
Further oxygenation leads to an increase of TEP at 290 K and therefore a
reduction of p while $T_{\rm c}$ continues to decrease. Such a deviation
of $T_{\rm c}$ from the proposed correlation for δ > 0.28 is also
accompanied by an unexpected change in the slope of c -δ. The
observations will be compared with the universal relations previously
proposed and discussed in terms of the electronic structure of Hg
1:2:0:1.

The Hg 1:2:0:1 samples investigated here were prepared by the controlled
solid-vapor reaction technique. Details of the technique have been
published elsewhere.[9] In short, Hg 1:2:0:1 is synthesized by reacting
a precursor pellet of Ba₂CuO_(x) and a composite Hg source together. The
precursor pellet is obtained by repeatedly heating and pulverizing a
mixture of appropriate amounts of BaO and CuO in an alumina crucible in
a flowing mixed gas of Ar:O at a ratio of 4:1 at 930 degC for a total of
24 h. The composite Hg source used in this study was a prereacted Hg
1:2:0:1 pellet made by compacting the thoroughly mixed HgO and
pulverized precursor powder. A small precursor pellet and a large
composite Hg source in a ratio of ∼ 1:3 are sealed inside an evacuated
quartz tube, heated to 810 degC and kept at this temperature for 8 h
before being cooled to room temperature. Samples with different δ are
obtained by heating the as-synthesized samples at different temperatures
and O pressures for appropriate periods of time.[10] To reach the
underdoped region, the sample was heated in a vacuum of ∼ 2 x 10⁻⁶ torr
at a temperature between 250−500 degC for 20−80 h. For the overdoped
samples, the as-synthesized compound was heated in a 1−500 bar O
atmosphere between 240 and 400 degC for 10−240 h. The best homogeneous
heavily overdoped samples were made at low temperatures which facilitate
oxygenation. Heat treatment at temperatures above 500 degC in vacuum
resulted in a partial decomposition of the compound. δ was measured by
TGA and the neutron powder diffraction (NPD), and the cation composition
of the samples was determined by NPD, inductance coupled plasma (ICP),
and wet-chemistry analysis. The structure was characterized by powder
x-ray diffraction and NPD. The dc magnetic susceptibility (χ) was
measured as a function of temperature using a Quantum Design
superconducting quantum interference device magnetometer, and the
electrical resistivity (ρ) was measured using the standard four-lead
technique. The TEP was measured with a resolution of ∼ 0.1 μV/K (Ref.
[11]) in the temperature region of interest.

All samples investigated display a single phase of Hg 1:2:0:1 within the
resolution of our x-ray diffraction (±5

The ρ(T) and χ(T) of the Hg 1:2:0:1 samples were carefully measured
after various heat treatments. In general, the removal of oxygen results
in a rapid ρ increase for the underdoped samples with δ <
$\delta_{\rm op}$ but only a slow ρ increase for the overdoped ones with
δ > $\delta_{\rm op}$, where $\delta_{\rm op}$ = 0.22 is the δ at the
optimal doping level. The superconducting signal (Δχ) of all samples was
found to be > 5

The TEP(_T_)’s of samples with different δ’s were determined. A few
examples are shown in Fig. 3, inset. In general, a δ increase shifts the
TEP(_T_) curve downward in parallel, rapidly for samples with δ <
$\delta_{\rm op}$ but only slowly for those with δ > $\delta_{\rm op}$,
similar to that observed previously.[4] However, the TEP(_T_) reaches a
minimum at δ = 0.28, and further oxygenation shifts the whole TEP(_T_)
curve upward instead. Following the universal correspondence of
room-temperature TEP with p, proposed by Obertelli _et al._,[4] the p’s
of the samples with different δ’s were determined. The bond-valence
summation method was also used to determine p. The value of the
as-synthesized samples obtained is ∼ 0.17, which compares well with the
value of 0.15 as determined by the thermoelectric power method. As shown
in Fig. 3, T_(c) was found to vary with p parabolically as 97 K[1 -
50(_p_ - 0.16)2] as T_(c) rises from 1 K to the T_(c)^(max) = 97 K in
the underdoped region and then decreases to ∼ 75 K in the overdoped
region. This T_(c) region where the parabolic T_(c)-p relationship holds
corresponds to a δ range, varying from 0.03 to 0.28. A deviation from
the parabolic T_(c)(p) dependence occurs for T_(c) < 75 K in the
overdoped region, corresponding to δ > 0.28.

The lattice parameters a and c were also determined for samples with
different δ’s. c was found to decrease continuously with δ increase for
δ < 0.28 but to change only very slightly with further increase of δ, as
shown in Fig. 4. The break in the c (δ) curve coincides with the
departure from the parabolic T_(c)(p) behavior at δ ∼ 0.28.

The T_(c) changes with δ parabolically (Fig. 2) as observed previously
in other cuprates HTS’s.¹ ⁻ ⁵ The T_(c)(p) = 97 K[1 - 50(_p_ - 0.16)2]
observed for Hg 1:2:0:1 shown in Fig. 3 is in qualitative agreement with
the parabolic universal relation T_(c)(p) = T_(c)^(max)[1 - 82.6(_p_ -
0.16)2] where p is determined from the same TEP measurements at room
temperatures.³ ⁻ ⁵ It is particularly true that T_(c)^(max) of Hg
1:2:0:1 occurs at the same p = 0.16 as for all other cuprates HTS’s.
However, the prefactor of 50 observed here is smaller than the 82.6 for
other HTS’s. The extrapolated superconducting range of Δp = 0.28 for Hg
1:2:0:1 is therefore significantly greater than that of 0.22 for other
HTS’s.^(3, 4) The difference observed here appears to exceed that
arising from the uncertainty ±0.015 of p for the cuprates examined in
Ref. [4]. Our results may therefore suggest that the charge reservoir
can affect T_(c) through roles other than the well-accepted one as a
carrier supplier.¹³ The observed T_(c)(δ) and T_(c)(p) gave p = 0.728±p₀
with p₀ = 0 ± 0.01, implying that Hg 1:2:0:1 is not self-doped, as
suggested by the band-structure calculation of Novikov and Freeman.¹⁴
This p-δ relation disagrees with the ionic model, which predicts p = 28,
giving two carriers per oxygen. This can be attributed to the strong
covalent bonding between Hg and O(4) in the HgO₃ layer recently proposed
by Singh and Pickett.¹⁵ Details will be published elsewhere.¹⁶

For δ > 0.28, T_(c)(p) is no longer parabolic as shown in Fig. 3. The
dramatic departure from the parabolic T_(c)(p) of Hg 1:2:0:1 appears for
T_(c) < 75 K or δ > 0.28 in the overdoped region. In spite of the
continuous increase of δ and the continuous decrease of T_(c) and ρ(T),
p shows a small but distinct decrease in a contrast to expectation. This
p decrease coincides with the reverse trend of TEP and c various in δ ≥
0.28 (Figs. 3 and 4). The observed T_(c)(p) in Hg 1:2:0:1 for p > 0.22
is qualitatively similar to the T_(c)(n_(s)/m^(*)) in Tl₂Ba₂CuO_(6 + δ)
reported by Niedermayer _et al.⁵_ and Uemura _et al.⁷_ in the overdoping
region, which has been attributed to the strong depairing effect of the
extra carriers,⁵ to the failure of scaling between normal state n and
n_(s), or to an increase in m^(*).⁷ However, it should be noted that a
parabolic T_(c)(p) was detected for Tl₂Ba₂CuO_(6 + δ) throughout the
overdoped region. The departure of T_(c)(p) of Hg 1:2:0:1 with δ > 0.28
from the parabolic T_(c)(p) behavior may therefore arise from a
different cause. It has been observed that the lat

Figure 4: Lattice constant c vs δ.

tice parameter c contracts in all double Tl(Bi)-layer HTS’s but expands
in the single Tl-layer compounds, because of the different sites in the
compound that oxygen centers.3 The nearly constant c with oxygenation
d > 0.28 observed in Hg 1:2:0:1 (Fig. 4) is very different from the
continuous decrease with d for d < 0.28. This may imply that there are
two different types of sites for oxygen to enter Hg 1:2:0:1, one
presumably in the HgO8 layers and the other off the HgO8 layers. The
latter will be occupied when d is large. It follows that although excess
O atoms in both sites suppress T_(c) and possibly the superconducting
condensate n_(s) in the overdoped region, they contribute to the
transport properties in the normal state differently, i.e., one enhances
TEP(_T_) and the other suppresses TEP(_T_). It will not be surprising if
oxygen in the different sites will also be discovered to have different
effects on other superconducting properties, such as pinning. To test
the above conjecture, several experiments on the sites of excess oxygen,
the superconducting concentrates, and field effects on _kh_ of samples
with different _d_’s are underway.

In conclusion, we have carried out a systematic study on the O-doping
effect on Hg 1:2:0:1 over a wide anion-doping range. The T_(c) was found
to vary parabolically with d throughout the doping range where T_(c)
rises from 1 to 97 K and loops back to 20 K with a continuous d
increase, which is in agreement with the previous reports. For d < 0.28,
T_(c) was observed to vary also parabolically with p, but with a
prefactor different from other cuprate HTS’s, with p = 0.728,
significantly less than the expected two carries per oxygen. This
implies a possibly important role, other than that of carrier supplier
to the CuO2 layers, of the charge reservoir in inducing
superconductivity in layered cuprates. However, T_(c) departs from the
parabolic T_(c)(_p_) relation known for other HTS’s for d > 0.28,
coinciding with the anomalous _c_(_d_) behavior detected. While the
departure observed here in Hg 1:2:0:1 appears to be similar for
T_(c)(_n__s_/_m_ *) reported recently in Tl2Ba2CuO6+_d_, our observation
suggests that excess oxygen may have entered different sites when d >
0.28 and that oxygen in different sites may influence the properties of
the compounds in their normal and superconducting states differently.
The results also suggest that T_(c)(_p_) may depend on the specifics of
the material system, particularly in the heavily overdoped region, and
that no universal relation of the type previously suggested exists.

This work was supported in part by NSF Grant No. DMR 91-22043, USAFOSR
Grant No. F49620-93-1-0310 by BMDO, the State of Texas through the Texas
Center for Superconductivity at the University of Houston, T.L.L. Temple
Foundation, and the R. A. Welch Foundation.

## References

* [1] Y. J. Uemura _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **62**, 2317 (1989). * [2]
J. G. Lin _et al._, Physica C **175**, 627 (1991). * [3] M. R. Presland
_et al._, Physica C **176**, 95 (1991). * [4] S. D. Obertelli _et al._,
Phys. Rev. B **46**, 14 928 (1992). * [5] C. Niedermayer _et al._, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **71**, 1764 (1993). * [6] H. Zhang and H. Sato, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **70**, 1697 (1993). * [7] Y. J. Uemura _et al._, Nature (London)
**364**, 605 (1993). * [8] T. Egami, Solid State Commun. **63**, 1019
(1987). * [9] R. L. Meng _et al._, Physica C **216**, 21 (1993). * [10]
Q. Xiong _et al._ (unpublished). * [11] Y. T. Ren _et al._, Physica C
**217**, 6 (1993). * [12] Q. Huang _et al._ (unpublished). * [13] Y.
Tokura and T. Arima, Jpn. J. Appl. Phys. **29**, 2388 (1990). * [14] D.
L. Novikov and A. J. Freeman, Physica C **212**, 233 (1993). * [15] D.
Singh and W. E. Pickett, Phys. Rev. Lett. **73**, 476 (1994). * [16] Y.
Y. Xue _et al._ (unpublished).
