# Field dependence of the specific heat of single-crystal
HgBa2Ca2Cu3O8+_d

A. Carrington,* C. Marcenat, and F. Bouquet

Departement de Recherche Fondamentale sur la Matiere Condensee,
Laboratoire de Cryophysique,

Commissariat a l’Energie Atomique-Grenoble, 17 rue des Martyrs, 38054
Grenoble Cedex 9, France

D. Colson, A. Bertinotti, J. F. Marucco, and J. Hammann

Service de Physique de l’Etat Condense, Commissariat a l’Energie
Atomique-Saclay, 91191 Gif sur Yvette Cedex, France

###### Abstract

Using a sensitive ac technique, we have measured the specific heat (_C_)
of a small single crystal of HgBa2Ca2Cu3O8+_d_ in fields up to 7 T. In
zero field the superconducting anomaly has the form of a
quasilogarithmic peak, which is almost symmetric about _T_c . In
increasing fields the anomaly is strongly suppressed and is shifted to
lower temperatures (with a slope of   - 0.8 K/T). This unusual behavior
is qualitatively different from that of YBa2Cu3O695 , and seems to be
intrinsic to the quasi-two-dimensional, high-_T_c superconductors. We
find that the three-dimensional _XY_ model of critical fluctuations best
describes our data.

1 Apr 1997 23 July 1996 ($C_{\rm diff}$) is the sum of the residual
differences in the phonon specific heats, differences in electronic
specific heats and differences in the addenda. With this well-matched
reference it is clear that a field of 7 T (∥ c ) is not sufficient to
completely suppress the anomaly at T_(c) , and so it is difficult to
unambiguously isolate the electronic part of the specific heat of our
sample. To proceed with the analysis of the data we have estimated the
background by fitting a polynomial (fourth order) to the 7 T data in the
temperature intervals 130 K < T  <150 K and 70 K< T  <90 K (where C is
virtually independent of B) and extrapolating this function across the
intermediate temperature region (see Fig. 1). Although there is clearly
some uncertainty in this background we have verified that our main
conclusions are insensitive to its exact form [any remaining very weakly
T-dependent terms, which would not be included in our background, would
be absorbed into the constant term in the critical fluctuation fits (see
below)].

The raw data with the background subtracted
$\left[\Delta C(B)=C_{\rm diff}(B)-C_{\rm bg}\right]$ are shown in Fig.
2. The anomaly in zero field is approximately symmetric about T_(c) ,
showing that the mean-field contribution is small, and suggesting that
the thermodynamics of this compound are dominated by strong fluctuation
effects near T_(c) . The form of the anomaly is quite different to that
of YBCO, but is similar to that reported for ceramic samples of Hg-1223
(Ref. [10]) and for several other quasi-two-dimensional cuprate
superconductors.[4, 14] It is unlikely that inhomogeneity is responsible
for this broad anomaly as its peak essentially coincides with the sharp
transition observed in the acs. The earlier measurements of J-andupeux
_et al.[15]_ also show evidence for strong fluctuation effects far above
T_(c) in Hg-1223. Their choice of background, which leads to the
conclusion that there is a sizable mean-field step in Hg-1223, is,
however, not supported by the present work.

A striking feature of the data in Fig. 2 is the very strong suppression
of the size of the anomaly in increasing magnetic field, accompanied by
only a weak decrease of T_(c) . In a conventional mean-field model the
anomaly size is related to T_(c2)(H) by

$$\Delta C(T_{c2}) = \frac{T_{c2}(dB_{c2}/dT)^{2}}{\mu_{0}(2\,\kappa^{2}-1)\,\beta}\;,$$
(1)

where κ is the Ginzburg-Landau parameter and β is the flux-line lattice
constant. The fact, suggested by Eq. (1), that a large suppression of
the anomaly height is accompanied by a comparable decrease in T_(c) is a
feature of all conventional low-T_(c) superconductors. The behavior
shown here for Hg-1223 is a strong indication of the failure of the
mean-field picture to describe, even qualitatively, the thermodynamics
of this compound near T_(c)(H).

A similar effect of field on C(T) has also been reported for Bi-2212
(Ref. [4]). An important difference however, is that for Bi-2212 the
position of the peak in C(T) varies nonmonotonically with field and
shifts by less than 2 K in 14 T, whereas for Hg-1223 the peak shifts
monotonically to a lower temperature with increasing field (Fig. 3). The
shift is approximately linear with the field having a slope of
− 1.2 ± 0.1 T/K, although a weak power law [such as (1 − T/T_(c))[43]]
is a marginally better fit. This is close to the value of
∂B_(c2)   /∂T  =  − 1.4 T/K estimated from recent torque measurements[3]
of crystals similar to those measured here. The rapid collapse of the
anomaly in increasing field is com

Figure 3: The evolution of the position of the peak in ΔC with field.

Figure 2: Field dependence of the specific heat of Hg-1223 after
subtraction of the background (see Fig. 1 and text). The field values in
T (∥ c ) are indicated in the figure.

parable to that of Bi-2212, but unlike Bi-2212 the peak temperature
decreases with increasing field with a slope which is comparable to that
of YBCO. The reason for this difference is not clear but may simply
reflect a difference in the in-plane coherence lengths.

The correct description of the thermodynamics near T_(c) of the strongly
fluctuating high-T_(c) materials has been a topic of considerable
theoretical interest. Two rather different pictures have been proposed.
The first type of model goes beyond the Gaussian approximation by
solving the Ginzburg-Landau equation with a finite βψ⁴ term, but
neglecting all but the lowest Landau level (LLL); an approximation which
is formally valid near the B_(c2)(T) line. Tesanovic _et al._[16] have
recently produced a complete analytical solution for the free-energy in
this approximation. The general features of this model are that the size
of the mean-field anomaly is roughly preserved in fields
 ≪ B_(c2)(T = 0), but is broadened by an increasing field to an extent
determined by a fitting parameter, θ_(G). This model can only fit our
data (even at the qualitative level) if we assume that our background
contains a large broad, field insensitive, mean-field-like step, so that
our subtracted data (Fig. 2) considerably underestimate the true size of
the anomaly. There is, however, independent support for our background
determination from other measurements, on polycrystalline samples, where
the background is determined by carefully modeling the changes in the
phonon contributions to C as a function of chemical doping.[14] Although
this analysis has not yet been attempted for Hg-1223, the results for
several other quasi-two-dimensional high-T_(c) superconductors (e.g.,
Tl-2201, Tl-2223)[14] bear a close resemblance to our data for Hg-1223
(Fig. 2), showing a much reduced mean-field contribution in zero field.
We conclude therefore that it is unlikely that the LLL model can explain
our results.

Alternative models consider the possibility that the very strong
fluctuations in these materials leads to a greatly enlarged critical
region. Fisher _et al.[17]_ have argued that for a three-dimensional
superconductor, with a two-component order parameter, the critical
behavior is of the three-dimensional XY type (3DXY), as for ⁴He, and
that the critical region may be several Kelvin wide, especially in a
strong field. In this model the most divergent contribution to the
fluctuation specific heat (C_(f)) in zero field has the form

$$C_{f}\!=\!C_{0}\!+\!\frac{A}{\alpha}|\tau|^{-\alpha}$$
(2)

(τ = T/T_(c) − 1). In finite field the divergence of the coherence
length is limited by the magnetic length d_(B) = (ϕ₀/πB)^(1/2), which
introduces a correction that is expected to scale as some function of
ξ /d_(B) (providing B is small compared to B_(c2)). Combining this with
Eq. (2) the field dependence of C_(f) can be written

C_(f) = C₀ − B^(−α/2ν)f( πB^(1/2ν)),
(3)

where ν is the coherence length critical exponent. The experimentally
determined critical exponents for ⁴He are:[18]A⁺/A⁻ = 1.054,
α =  − 0.0129, and ν = (2 − α)/3 = 0.671 (here the + and − refer to the
value above and below T_(c), respectively). The low value of α means
that in zero field the power-law behavior is well approximated by a
logarithmic divergence and Eq. (2) may be rewritten

$$C_{f}\!\simeq\!\left|\,C_{0}\!+\!\frac{A}{\alpha}\right|\!+\!A\ln(|\tau|).$$
(4)

It has been claimed that the specific heat of YBCO can be fitted by Eq.
(2) with parameters which compare well to the values for ⁴He (Refs. 2
and 19). In these fits C₀ and A/α are an order of magnitude larger than
the actual anomaly, and so a slight asymmetry in either of these
parameters produces a marked asymmetry in the resulting fit. This fact
alone, however, cannot be used to determine the important amplitude
ratio A⁺/A⁻ as both A and C₀ can take different values above and below
T_(c).[18] Proper determination of this ratio requires data over several
decades of reduced temperature, an experimental regime which is
unrealizable even with the best YBCO samples.

In Fig. 4 we show a fit to our data for Hg-1223 with Eq. (2), with the
critical exponents set to the values for ⁴He. As for YBCO, the data do
not show a true divergence at T_(c) because of rounding of the
transition by inhomogeneities, and so a window of ± 1 K was excluded
from the fit in zero field. Outside this window the fit is good over
around one decade of reduced temperature. As the anomaly is
approximately symmetric, we need to include an asymmetry in C₀⁺/C₀⁻ of
∼4

Figure 4: Critical scaling of Δ C(B). The field values in T are
indicated in the figure. Inset: Fit to the zero field data using the
same parameters (given in the text).

and below T_(c)). The reason for the nonscaling of the lower field data
is probably because of intrinsic disorder and in fact these data do
scale onto the common curve if the actual field is replaced by a higher
effective one (i.e., by replacing B in the scaling variables with
$B+B_{\rm int}$, where $B_{\rm int}$ represents an effective disorder
field).

A possible objection to the above 3DXY analysis is that it might be
expected that, in this strongly anisotropic material, the region where
the fluctuations are effectively three-dimensional is limited to a
temperature interval very close to T_(c). However, the experimental fact
that the 3DXY model fits the data well over a wide temperature range
could conversely be taken as evidence that the three-dimensional region
is much larger than might be expected from, for instance, a simple
Lawrence-Doniach model.

In conclusion, we have shown that Hg-1223 has a quasi-logarithmic
divergence of the specific heat at T_(c) in zero field, which unlike
YBCO is approximately symmetric about T_(c). The effect of a magnetic
field is to strongly suppress the size of the anomaly and to shift its
peak position to a lower temperature at a rate of ∼  − 1.2 T/K. The
rapid suppression of the anomaly height with the field is also seen in
Bi-2212, which suggests that this is an intrinsic feature of these
low-dimensional high-T_(c) superconductors. This is further supported by
our own recent data for the one- and four-layer members of the Hg-based
series, which have similar behavior to the three-layer member reported
here.[20] We have argued that the data in finite field are incompatible
with the LLL model, but are consistent with a finite size scaling of the
zero-field logarithmic anomaly using the critical exponents of the 3DXY
model. The fact that the data for YBCO and Hg-1223 can be fitted by the
same critical exponents is surprising given the marked difference in the
shape of the two anomalies. This suggests that the nonuniversal
corrections to the 3DXY scaling form are important in the temperature
range of our data.

We thank R. Calemczuk, C. Ayache, E. Janod, A. Junod, A. Buzdin, D.
Grempel, and M.A. Moore for useful discussions.

## References

* [1] S. E. Inderhees, M. B. Salamon, J. P. Rice, and D. M. Ginsberg,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **66**, 232 (1991). * [2] N. Overend, M. A. Howson, and
I. D. Lawrie, Phys. Rev. Lett. **72**, 3238 (1994). * [3] V. Vulcanescu,
L. Fruchter, A. Bertinotti, D. Colson, G. Le Bras, and J.-F. Marucco,
Physica C **131**, 259 (1996). * [4] A. Junod, K. Q. Wang, T. Tsukamoto,
G. Triscone, B. Revaz, E. Walker, and J. Muller, Physica C **229**, 209
(1994). * [5] D. Colson, A. Bertinotti, J. Hammann, J. F. Marucco, and
A. Pinatel, Physica C **233**, 231 (1994). * [6] A. Carrington, D.
Colson, Y. Dumont, C. Ayache, A. Bertinotti, and J. F. Marucco, Physica
C **234**, 1 (1994); although the resistive T_(c)’s are of order 130 K
for the crystals in this reference, subsequent specific heat
measurements have shown that the bulk T_(c) = 116 ± 1 K. * [7] M.-H.
Julien, P. Carretta, M. Horvatic, C. Berthier, Y. Berthier, P.
Segransan, A. Carrington, and D. Colson, Phys. Rev. Lett. **76**, 4238
(1996). * [8] A. Carrington and F. Bouquet (unpublished). * [9] M. B.
Salamon, S. E. Inderhees, J. P. Rice, B. G. Pazol, D. M. Ginsberg, and
N. Goldenfeld, Phys. Rev. B **38**, 885 (1988). * [10] R. Calemczuk, C.
Marcenat, J. L. Tholence, M. F. Gorius, and J. J. Capponi, Physica C
**235-240**, 174 (1994). * [11] No correction for demagnetizing effects
was made; we estimate the demagnetizing factor N to be 0.77. * [12] A.
Schilling, M. Cantoni, J. D. Guo, and H. R. Ott, Nature (London)
**363**, 56 (1993). * [13] A. Bertinotti, D. Colson, J. Hammann, J. F.
Marucco, D. Luzet, A. Pinatel, and V. Viallet, Physica C **250**, 213
(1995). * [14] J. W. Loram, J. R. Cooper, J. M. Wheatley, K. A. Mirza,
and R. S. Liu, Philos. Mag. B **65**, 1405 (1992); J. M. Wade, J. W.
Loram, K. A. Mirza, J. R. Cooper, and J. L. Tallon, J. Supercond. **7**,
261 (1994) * [15] O. Jeandupeux, A. Schilling, and H. R. Ott, Physica C
**216**, 17 (1993). * [16] Z. Tesanovic, L. Xing, L. N. Bulaevskii, Q.
Li, and M. Suenaga, Phys. Rev. Lett. **69**, 3563 (1992); Z. Tesanovic
and A. V. Andreev, Phys. Rev. B **49**, 4064 (1994). * [17] D. S.
Fisher, M. P. A. Fisher, and D. A. Huse, Phys. Rev. B **43**, 130
(1991). * [18] J. A. Lipa, D. R. Swanson, J. A. Nissen, T. C. P. Chui,
and U. E. Israelsson, Phys. Rev. Lett. **76**, 944 (1996); J. A. Lipa
and T. C. P. Chui, _ibid._**51**, 2291 (1983). * [19] M. B. Salamon, J.
Shi, N. Overend, and M. A. Howson, Phys. Rev. B **47**, 5520 (1993). *
[20] A. Carrington, C. Marcenat, F. Bouquet, D. Colson, and V. Viallet,
Czech. J. Phys. **46**, 3177 (1996).
