# Magnetic-field dependence of electronic specific heat in
Pr1.85Ce0.15CuO4

Hamza Balci,¹ V. N. Smolyaninova,¹ P. Fournier,² Amlan Biswas,¹ and R.
L. Greene

¹Center for Superconductivity Research, Department of Physics,
University of Maryland, College Park, Maryland 20742

²Centre de Recherche sur les Proprieties Electroniques de Materiaux
Avances, Departement de Physique, Universite de Sherbrooke, Quebec,
Canada J1K 2R1

Received 6 June 2002; published 13 November 2002

###### Abstract

The specific heat of electron-doped Pr1.85Ce0.15CuO4 single crystals is
reported for the temperature range 2-7 K and magnetic field range 0-10
T. A nonlinear magnetic-field dependence is observed for the field range
0-2 T. Our data support a model with lines of nodes in the gap function
of these superconductors. Theoretical calculations of the electronic
specific heat for dirty _d_-wave, clean _d_-wave, and _s_-wave
symmetries are compared to our data.

pacs: 74.25.Bt, 74.20.Rp, 74.25.Jb + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL
REVIEW B **66**, 174510 (2002)

The order parameter (gap) symmetry of high-T_(c) cuprate superconductors
is an important parameter in attempting to understand the pairing
mechanism in these materials. For hole-doped cuprates experimental
evidence strongly favors _d_-wave symmetry.[1, 2] Surprisingly, early
experiments on electron-doped (_n_-type) Nd1.85Ce0.15CuO4 (NCCO)
suggested an _s_-wave symmetry. Recent penetration depth,[3]
tricrystal,[4] photoemission,[5] Raman scattering,[6] and point contact
tunneling experiments[7] on NCCO and Pr2-_(x)Ce2CuO4 (PCCO) favored a
_d_-wave symmetry. In addition to these measurements, which showed _s_-
or _d_-wave symmetry, there are penetration depth[3] and point contact
tunneling[7] experiments that showed evidence of a change in the order
parameter as the doping changes from underdoped (_d_ wave) to overdoped
(_s_ wave). However, since these prior measurements on the _n_-type
cuprates are surface sensitive there is a need for bulk measurements
(e.g. specific heat) to convincingly determine the pairing symmetry, as
was the case for the _p_-type cuprates.[9, 10, 11, 12]

The specific heat is sensitive to low temperature electronic
excitations. Different gap symmetries have different densities of
electronic states close to the Fermi level. Conventional low-T_(c)
superconductors show an _s_-wave gap symmetry in which the electronic
specific heat has an exponential temperature dependence,
C_(e′)^(∝)T^(1.5)e^(−Δ/kT), where Δ is the energy gap.[13] For a clean
_d_-wave superconductor electronic excitations exist even at the lowest
temperatures. The electronic density of states is predicted to have a
linear energy dependence close to the Fermi level, and this shows up in
the electronic specific heat as C_(e′)^(∝)T².[14]

In the mixed state, there are two types of quasiparticle excitations in
the bulk of the superconductor: bound states inside the vortex cores,
and extended states outside the vortex cores. In conventional _s_-wave
superconductors, the in-core bound states dominate the quasiparticle
excitations; therefore, the electronic specific heat is proportional to
the number of vortices. The number of vortices is linear in field,
therefore the electronic specific heat is also linear in field.[15] In a
superconductor with lines of nodes (e.g., _d_-wave symmetry), the
extended quasiparticles dominate the excitation spectrum in the clean
limit. It has been shown that the electronic specific heat has a
$\sqrt{H}$ dependence in the clean limit[16] at T = 0. For non-zero
temperatures there is a minimum field that depends on temperature after
which the $\sqrt{H}$ dependence should be observed. In the dirty limit
the energy scale related to impurity bandwidth (or impurity scattering
rate) is much larger than the energy scale related to Doppler shift due
to magnetic field (the dominant mechanism for the clean _d_-wave case),
and much less than the superconducting gap maximum. In this limit, i.e.,
k_(B)T ≪ (H/H_(c2))Δ₀ ≪ γ₀ ≪ Δ₀ (ℏ is set to 1), where Δ₀ is the gap
maximum and γ₀ is the impurity bandwidth [or (1/2) the quasiparticle
scattering rate at zero energy], the magnetic field dependence deviates
from $\sqrt{H}$, and an Hlog (H) like dependence is predicted below a
certain field H*, which depends on temperature and impurity
concentration in the sample.[18]

In this paper we present magnetic field dependent specific heat
measurements on _n_-type cuprates which probe the symmetry of the
superconducting state. The electronic specific heat has been observed to
have a nonlinear magnetic field dependence. The theoretical model for a
clean _d_-wave symmetry fits reasonably well to our data; however, there
are deviations from this type of field dependence below _H*_ = 0.6 T
(Fig. 3). We find that an Hlog (H) type dependence gives a better fit to
our data over the whole range, which means our data can better be
described by a dirty _d_-wave symmetry. It is important to emphasize
that the main point of this work is to address the question of an s wave
vs a d wave, rather than a clean d wave vs a dirty d wave.

The specific heat data was obtained in the temperature range 2-7 K and
the magnetic field range 0-10 T using the relaxation method.[19] The
measurements were repeated in two systems, a home-made setup and a
Quantum Design PPMS with some modifications on the sample holder to
remove the field dependence of the original chip. The addenda consist of
a sapphire substrate with a thermometer and heater, and Wakefield
thermal compound to hold the PCCO crystal. The addenda were measured
separately, and found to have no magnetic field dependence within the
resolution of our experiment(± 2.5%). The experiment was done on several
optimally doped Pr1.85Ce0.15CuO4 single crystals (the mass of the
crystals was 3-5 mg). The sample heat capacity is approximately equal to
two times that of the addenda at T = 2 K, and equal to that of the
addenda at T = 10 K. The crystals were grown by the directional
solidification technique.[20] The samples were characterized with a
superconducting quantum interface device magnetometer and found to be
fully superconducting, with similar transition temperatures T_(c) = 22 K
± 2 K.

The specific heat of a d-wave superconductor usually has the following
main contributions: the electronic contribution, which could have the
form γT or γT² depending on the field and temperature range the
measurement is done, the phonon contribution, which at the temperature
range of our experiment can be written as βT³, and a Schottky
contribution, which is caused by spin-1/2 paramagnetic impurities.[21]
Furthermore γ = γ(0) + γ(H), where γ(H) gives the field dependent part
of the electronic specific heat coefficient, and γ(0) T is the residual
linear temperature dependent part of the electronic specific heat. γ(0)
is sample dependent, and it is origin is not completely understood.
Nonelectronic two-level systems away from the copper-oxide planes are
one of the possible candidates for the origin of this term.[18] It has
been observed for all hole-doped samples studied. Figure 1 shows the
temperature dependence of the specific heat at four different fields 0,
1, 2, and 10 T applied perpendicular to the ab plane of the crystal. The
field range 0−2 T is the relevant field range to extract the gap
symmetry information,[16] and at H = 10 T the sample is completely in
the normal state (H_(c2) = 8 T at T = 2 K). Driving the sample to the
normal state enables us to extract an important parameter, γ_(n) = 6.7 ±
0.5 mJ/mole K², which is needed to compare our data to theoretical
predictions quantitatively. A global fit which assumes the phonon
coefficient β constant for all fields and γ variable gives a γ(0) = 1.4
± 0.2 mJ/mole K². This value of γ(0) is consistent with the values found
for γ(0) in the hole-doped superconductors [γ(0)≈ 1 mJ/mole K² for YBCO
(Refs. 9-11)].

The fact that we do not have any Schottky upturn at low temperatures for
any field shows that our sample is free of magnetic impurities. From the
slope of the lines, obtained through a global fit, β = 0.29 ± 0.01
mJ/mole K⁴, and a Debye temperature Θ_(D) = 362 ± 4 K has been
extracted. These values are in reasonable agreement with the other
published data in the literature [β = 0.244 mJ/mole K (Ref. 4) and Θ_(D)
= 382 K (Ref. 17)].

Since the phonon specific heat is field independent and there is no
Schottky contribution to the specific heat, subtracting the zero field
specific heat from the specific heat at other fields gives the field
dependent part of the electronic specific heat. Figure 2 shows the field
dependent part of the electronic specific heat, γ(H)T, vs magnetic field
at 3.4 K in the field range 0−8 T. Figure 3 shows theoretical fits to
the 3.4-K data in the field range 0−2 T. These data are the same as the
data in Fig. 2 but only the low field part is shown, and the three
points taken for each field in Fig. 2 are averaged and shown as one
point in Fig. 3. The low field part is im

Figure 1: C/T vs T², where C is the sample total specific heat, at four
different fields (0, 1, 2, and 10 T) in the temperature range 2–7 K. The
magnetic field is perpendicular to the ab-plane.

Figure 3: The field dependent electronic specific heat vs magnetic field
data at 3.4 K, and the theoretical fits to the data. The solid curve is
the dirty d-wave fit, the dashed straight line is the s-wave fit, and
the dashed curve is the clean d-wave fit.

Figure 2: C(H)-C(0) vs magnetic field, or the field dependent electronic
specific heat vs magnetic field. A nonlinear behavior is observed below
2 T. The electronic specific heat has saturated to the normal state
value at 8 T.

portant because the theoretical work on d-wave symmetry (clean or dirty)
has focused on the dilute vortex limit (H_(c1)≪H≪H_(c2)) to be able to
ignore vortex-vortex interaction, so both Eqs. (1) and (2) are valid in
this limit. The clean d-wave fit is calculated using the equation [11]

$$C_{el} = \gamma_{n}T\left(\frac{8}{\pi}\right)\left|\left(\frac{H}{H_{c2}/a^{2}} \right)^{1/2}\quad\mbox{for}\;\left(\frac{TH_{c2}^{1/2}}{T_{c}H^{1/2}}\right) \right.\ll 1$$
(1)

where γ_(n) = 6.7 mJ/mole K² (from the intercept of our 10-T data in
Fig. 1), H_(c2) = 10 T and a = 0.7 are used [a is a geometrical factor
that depends on the vortex lattice geometry, and the value 0.7 was found
experimentally for YBCO (Ref. 9)]. The clean d-wave fit is clearly
better than the linear s-wave fit. The possible nonlinear behavior in an
s-wave superconductor will be discussed below. However, as we shall now
show, the dirty d-wave model is the best model to describe our data.

Even though the clean d-wave fit has a much better consistency than the
linear s-wave fit, there seem to be deviations between our data and the
clean d-wave theory below H* = 0.6 T, which would be expected from a
dirty d-wave superconductor. In fact, being in the dirty limit is not
unexpected, since the penetration depth measurements performed on
similar crystals, grown by this group, were also consistent with dirty
d-wave symmetry. [3] For clean d-wave symmetry the change in the
penetration depth as a function of temperature is linear in temperature
[Δ∝T], whereas a quadratic temperature dependence [Δ∝T²] is expected if
the nodes are filled by impurity states, i.e., dirty d waves. A
quadratic temperature dependence was observed consistently by two
different groups on many crystals they studied. [3] If a dirty d-wave
function of the type C_(el)(H) = AHlog (B/H) is fitted to our data, a
slightly better fit is obtained for the fitting parameters A = 6.2 ± 0.6
mJ/mole K T and B = 17.6 ± 4.7 T. The scatter in the data makes it very
difficult to choose between clean d-wave and dirty d-wave symmetries.
However, since there is evidence for dirty d-wave symmetry from previous
penetration depth measurements done on similar crystals, the data
analysis was focused on comparing our data with the theory of dirty
d-wave symmetry.

We compared the experimental values of coefficients A and B with the
theoretical predictions [18] calculated from the equation,

$$C_{el}(H) = \gamma_{n}T\left(\frac{\Delta_{0}}{8\,\gamma_{0}}\right)\left| \left(\frac{H}{H_{c2}/a^{2}}\right)\log\left|\frac{\pi H_{c2}}{2a^{2}H}\right| \right.$$
(2)

where 2 γ₀ is the zero energy quasiparticle scattering rate (also called
the impurity bandwidth), Δ₀ is the superconducting gap maximum, and a is
a geometrical factor related to the vortex lattice geometry.
Substituting H_(c2) = 10 T and a = 1, the fitting parameter

$$B = \left(\frac{\pi H_{c2}}{2a^{2}}\right)$$

can be calculated to be 15.7 T, in reasonably good agreement with the
value generated by our data B = 17.6 ± 4.7 T. The other fitting
coefficient A can be calculated from

$$A = \gamma_{n}T\left[\frac{\Delta_{0}}{8\,\gamma_{0}}\right]\left| \left(\frac{1}{H_{c2}/a^{2}}\right)\right.$$

However, the parameter γ₀, which is related to the density of impurities
in the sample and is sample dependent, is not known. Therefore by using
the experimental A = 6.2 ± 0.7 mJ/mole K T value, γ₀ can be estimated to
be 2.1 K. A more widely cited scattering rate is the normal state
electron scattering rate Γ. Γ is due to only impurity scattering, and it
is also called the bare scattering rate. By using the estimated value of
γ₀ in the equation for strong scattering limit(unitarity limit), γ₀ =
0.61 $\sqrt{\Gamma\,\Delta_{0}}$, [18] a bare scattering rate of Γ =
0.26 K can be calculated (ℏ and k_(B) are set to 1).

Our analysis at the other temperatures (Fig. 4) also produced results
similar to the T = 3.4 K data. For T = 2.3 K, A = 3.1 ± 0.2 mJ/mole K T
and B = 18.0 ± 4.7 T are found and for T = 2.7 K A = 4.3 ± 0.5 mJ/mole K
T and B = 18.7 ± 4.9 T are found. Theoretically the coefficient B should
be the same for all temperatures, and the coefficient A should be
linearly proportional to the temperature. The best fits to the data
generated the same values for B within the error range, and the values
for A scale with temperature, even though not in perfect agreement with
the theory. [22]

We should mention that the s-wave theory we used to fit our data
neglects nonlinear effects that might arise in the vicinity of H_(c1)
due to vortex-vortex interaction or due to a possible change in the size
of the vortex cores. Some experiments performed on s-wave
superconductors have shown a nonlinear, even $\sqrt{H}$, magnetic field
dependence for C_(el). However the field dependence is not consistent
for different temperatures, which means depending on what temperature
the field dependence is probed, the electronic specific heat has a
different field dependence. Different groups have observed C_(el)∝H^(n)
for almost any value of n between 0.5 and 1 depending on what material
they studied and at what temperature range they performed their
experiment. [23, 24] While

Figure 4: The field dependent electronic specific heat vs magnetic field
data for 2.4, 2.7, and 3.4 K. The lines are the dirty d-wave theory fits
to the data.

we cannot definitively rule out s-wave symmetry as an explanation for
our data we believe that a dirty d-wave symmetry gives the most
consistent and plausible fit to our data.[25, 26, 27, 28]

In conclusion, our specific heat data strongly suggest that the d-wave
symmetry in electron doped PCCO at optimal doping is a bulk property of
the material. However, due to nonmagnetic impurities in our sample, the
electronic specific heat follows a magnetic field dependence of type
Hlog (H) below H = 0.6 T, consistent with dirty d-wave symmetry. In
addition, the normal state Sommerfeld constant of PCCO,
γ_(n) = 6.7 ± 0.4 mJ/mole K², has been measured.

We thank Professor Peter J. Hirschfeld, and Professor Chandan Dasgupta
for insightful discussions. P.F. acknowledges the support of the
Canadian Institute of Advanced Research (CIAR), the Canadian Foundation
for Innovation (CFI), the Natural Sciences and Engineering Research
Council of Canada (NSERC), the Foundation of the Universite de
Sherbrooke. The work at Maryland was supported by NSF Grant No. DMR
01-02350.

## References

* [1] C. C. Tsuei and J. R. Kirtley, Rev. Mod. Phys. **72**, 969
(2000). * [2] D. J. Van Harlingen, Rev. Mod. Phys. **67**, 515 (1995). *
[3] J. David Kokales _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **85**, 3696 (2000); R.
W. Prozorov _et al._, _ibid._**85**, 3700 (2000). * [4] C. C. Tsuei and
J. R. Kirtley, Phys. Rev. Lett. **85**, 182 (2000). * [5] N. P. Armitage
_et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **86**, 1126 (2001); T. Sato _et al._,
Science **291**, 1517 (2001). * [6] G. Blumberg _et al._, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **88**, 107002 (2002). * [7] A. Biswas _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**88**, 207004 (2002). * [8] John A. Skinta _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**88**, 207005 (2002). * [9] K. A. Moler _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **55**,
3954 (1999). * [10] D. A. Wright _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **82**, 1550
(1999). * [11] Y. Wang _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **63**, 094508 (2001). *
[12] M. Chiao _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **82**, 2943 (1999). * [13] C.
Caroli, P. G. de Gennes, and J. Matricon, Phys. Lett. **9**, 307
(1964). * [14] G. E. Volovik, Pis’ma Zh. Eksp. Teor. Fiz. **58**, 457
(1993) [JETP Lett. **58**, 469 (1993)]. * [15] M. Tinkham, _Introduction
to Superconductivity_ (McGraw-Hill, New York, 1996). * [16] N. B. Kopnin
and G. E. Volovik, Pis’ma Zh. Eksp. Teor. Fiz. **64**, 641 (1996) [JETP
Lett. **64**, 690 (1996)]. * [17] M. N. Khlopkin _et al._, Phys. Solid
State **41**, 1050 (1999). * [18] C. Kubert and P. J. Hirschfeld, Solid
State Commun. **105**, 459 (1998). * [19] R. Bachmann _et al._, Rev.
Sci. Instrum. **43**, 205 (1972). * [20] J. L. Peng, Z. Y. Li, and R. L.
Greene, Physica C **177**, 79 (1991). * [21] E. S. R. Gopal, _Specific
Heats At Low Temperatures_ (Plenum Press, New York, 1966). * [22] J. P.
Emerson _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **82**, 1546 (1999). * [23] A. P.
Ramirez _et al._, Phys. Lett. A **211**, 59 (1996). * [24] J. E. Sonier
_et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **82**, 4914 (1999). * [25] Y. Ando _et al._,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **88**, 167005 (2002). * [26] P. Fournier _et al._,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **81**, 4720 (1998). * [27] I. Vekhter _et al._, Phys.
Rev. B **59**, R9023 (1999). * [28] M. Nohara _et al._, Physica C
**341-348**, 2177 (2000).
