Electrical resistivity and Andreev reflection spectroscopy of the
superconducting oxide spinel LiTi₂O₄

L. Tang, P. Y. Zou, L. Shan, A. F. Dong, G. C. Che, and H. H. Wen*

National Laboratory for Superconductivity, Institute of Physics, Chinese
Academy of Sciences, P.O. Box 603, Beijing 100080, People’s Republic of
China

###### Abstract

We measured resistivity and Andreev reflection spectroscopy on LiTi₂O₄
polycrystalline samples (T_(c)≈ 12.3 K) synthesized by a new method.
Resistivity shows the metallic temperature dependence and is well fitted
by the Bloch-Gruneisen theory above 90 K. This is consistent with the
picture of electron-phonon scattering. Below 90 K and above T_(c) it
shows T² temperature dependence suggesting Fermi liquid behavior above
T_(c). From the H_(c2)= T phase diagram the upper critical field
H_(c2)(0) is estimated to be about 11.6 T based on the Ginzburg-Landau
theory. Point-contact Andreev reflection spectroscopy gives
2Δ₀/k_(B)T_(c)= 4 and reveals that LiTi₂O₄ is a typical
intermediate-coupling s-wave BCS superconductor. We also observed the
resistive hump in a normal state and the field-induced upturn near the
transition region of the ρ(T) curve on the aged samples. In comparison
with the fresh one, it suggests that the above exotic ρ(T) behavior is
not an intrinsic character of the pure stoichiometric LiTi₂O₄ compound.

pacs: 10.1103/PhysRevB.73.184521 + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL REVIEW
B **73**, 184521 (2006)

LiTi₂O₄ is a spinel oxide superconductor with a transition temperature
T_(c)≈ 12 K. The band structure calculation[1] indicates that the
conduction band states are mainly coming from Ti 3d bands which lie
about 2−3 eV above the O 2p bands, that is different from other
transition-metal spinels in which d and p orbitals hybridize with each
other and go across the E_(f) energy. Thus LiTi₂O₄ is a d-electron
superconductor due to the large separation between d and p orbitals.
Initially the superconductivity of LiTi₂O₄ is considered as due to
electron-phonon coupling.[2] Some tunneling spectra experiments[3, 4]
revealed that 2Δ₀/k_(B)T_(c)= 3.5−3.7 or 4.00±0.06, which are in good
agreement with the BCS theory. Alternatively, it was suggested that the
superconductivity in LiTi₂O₄ is possibly induced by
resonating-valence-bond mechanism.[1] However, the recent specific heat
experiments revealed that LiTi₂O₄ is a typical type-II, BCS-like,
moderate coupling s-wave superconductor.[3]

The occurrence of a composition-induced metal-semiconductor transition
in Li_(1 + π)Ti_(2 − x)O₄ was observed both in experiments[6, 7, 8] and
theoretical calculations.[9] The stoichiometric LiTi₂O₄ (x=0) is a metal
with a superconducting transition at 12 K and Li_(4/3)Ti_(5/3)O₄ (x=
1/3) is a semiconductor. It was reported that LiTi₂O₄ is not stable in
air and moisture, and a metal-semiconductor transition was observed in
an aged sample (exposed in air for 5 days) at temperatures close to the
superconducting transition region in a fresh sample.[10] Under a
magnetic field the resistivity of off-stoichiometric LiTi₂O₄ shows an
abnormal upturn near the transition region.[11, 12] Surprisingly, it was
observed that the ρ(T) curve of the stoichiometric LiTi₂O₄ sample shows
a strange hump in normal state as well as the off-stoichiometric
compound.[8, 12] Due to the volatility of Li₂O, conventional preparation
of LiTi₂O₄ is difficult to obtain an exact composition of Li, therefore
the above result needs to be confirmed.[10] In this paper, we report the
result from the study on LiTi₂O₄ polycrystalline samples which were
synthesized by a new method[13] by avoiding inexact Li content. This
sample provides a way to a better understanding on the physical
properties of the stoichiometric LiTi₂O₄.

Our high quality polycrystalline LiTi₂O₄ was synthesized by solid state
reaction from the Li₂Ti₃O₇ single crystal. In contrast to the
conventional method,[13] this is a new method based on the chemical
reaction: 2Li₂Ti₃O₇+2TiO =4LiTi₂O₄. The starting materials are chemical
reagent TiO and Li₂Ti₃O₇ monocrystal powders with the purities better
than 99.99

We measured the resistivity and Andreev reflection spectroscopy by using
the Oxford multiparameter measurement system (MagLab-Exa12). The
temperature dependent resistance was measured using the four-terminal
technique. The point contact Andreev reflection measurements were
carried out by pointing a Pt/Ir alloy tip towards the LiTi₂O₄ sample.
Typical four-terminal and lock-in techniques were used to measure the
I-V curves and the differential resistance dV/dI vs V of the point
contacts. Then the dynamical conductance dI/dV∼V (or σ∼V) was obtained
both by converting the dV/dI∼V curves and by calculating the derivative
of I-V relations in order to ensure the reliability of the results.

The temperature dependent resistivity of the fresh sample in zero field
is shown in Fig. 1(a). The resistive superconducting transition is very
sharp. The midpoint of the resistive transition is 12.3 K, and the
resistive onset temperature is 12.5 K. The width of the superconducting
transition defined as 90

On this fresh stoichiometric LiTi₂O₄ sample, we have not found an
anomalous resistivity maximum as previously reported in the works of
Liao[11, 12] and Heintz.[8] But for the aged sample, Fig. 1(b) shows a
particular hump of the ρ vs T curve in the normal state and the onset
transition temperature is 12.1 K. The aged sample has no zero
resistivity down to 1.8 K and the width of the transition (defined as 10

Since the LiTi₂O₄ sample is polycrystalline and very loose, air or
moisture are easy to react with the interior grains leading to
inhomogeneous Li content in aged samples. For the off-stoichiometric
superconductor Li_(1 ± x)Ti_(2 − x)O₄ (0.04 ≪_(x) ≪ 0.12) the
resistivity of the normal state increases with decreasing
temperature.[8] Therefore, the contributions from the multiphases result
in a hump in the temperature dependent resistivity of the aged sample.
Similarly, owing to the volatility of Li₂O, conventional preparation of
LiTi₂O₄ may lead to inhomogeneous Li content of the samples and hence
result in a resistive hump. Considering the fact that both
stoichiometric and off-stoichiometric samples have almost the same
superconducting transition temperature,[8] it is tempting to suggest
that the resistive hump in normal state is due to the existence of
multicomponents and is not an intrinsic phenomenon of the pure
stoichiometric LiTi₂O₄ phase as presented in Fig. 1.

Because the normal-state ρ(T) of this fresh sample shown in Fig. 1(a) is
similar to that observed in the conventional metals, we tried to fit the
ρ(T) curve with the Bloch-Gruneisen expression, which is a good
approximation for electron-phonon scattering in conventional metals. We
use the explicit form of the Bloch-Gruneisen expression, which assumes
the Einstein phonon distribution ϵ=k_(B)Θ_(E). Subsequently, the exact
result for resistivity is[14]

ρ⁻¹ = ρ_(p)⁻¹ + (ρ₀ + ρ_(ph))⁻¹,
(1)

ρ_(ph) = ρ_(i)coth (Θ_(E)/2T)[1 + (2/3)sinh²(Θ_(E)/2T)]⁻¹,
(2)

where ρ₀ is a residual resistivity that is in series with ρ_(ph) and
ρ_(i) is a constant. ρ_(p) is the parallel part of the impurity
resistivity which is parallel with ρ_(ph) for better fitting.[15] It is
found that the Bloch-Gruneisen expression can well fit the resistivity
from 90 to 300 K (the fitting result is denoted by the dashed line in
Fig. 2.) which is similar to the case of MgCNi₃ (Ref. [15]) and the best
fitting gives ρ₀/ρ₂₇₃ x=0.578, ρ_(p)/ρ₂₇₃ x=1.961, and Θ_(E)=367 K which
is reasonable compared with the Debye temperatures of 657 K derived from
the specific heat measurements.[5] Hence the phonon density

Figure 2: Temperature dependent resistivity (normalized by the value at
273 K) of the fresh LiTi₂O₄ sample in normal state. The solid line is
the best fitting result of ρ(T) with a power law below 90 K with ρ =
ρ₀+aT^(1.986) supporting the Fermi liquid picture above T_(c). The
dashed line is the theoretical curve calculated according to the
Bloch-Grüneisen expression indicating that the conventional
electron-phonon mechanism is dominant above 90 K.

Figure 1: Temperature dependence of resistivity (normalized by the value
at 273 K) measured on LiTi₂O₄. (a) Fresh sample (T_(c) = 12.3 K). We
have not observed an anomalous resistivity maximum and the ρ vs T curve
looks similar to that of the conventional metals dominated by
electron-phonon scattering mechanism. (b) Aged sample (T_(c)^(eq) = 12.1
K). It shows a peculiar hump in a normal state due to the existence of
multicomponents (see text).

of states should have a peak at about 32 meV considering the Einstein
phonon distribution, which is consistent with the inelastic neutron
scattering experimental results.[16] Below 90 K, we fitted the data to
the simple power law ρ=ρ₀+aT^(n) as indicated by the solid line in Fig.
2, yielding n=1.986 and ρ₀/ρ_(273 K)=0.352. This is in good agreement
with the Fermi liquid picture above T_(c). The power law is not good
above 125 K because in this region the electron-phonon scattering is
dominant.

In Fig. 3 we present the temperature dependent resistivity of the fresh
sample under various magnetic fields up to 12 T. It was noted that by
increasing the magnetic field the resistive superconducting transition
shifts parallel down to lower temperatures. This result is unlike the
high-T_(c) cuprate superconductors and is similar to the conventional
electron-phonon coupling superconductors such as Nb₃Sn. Figure 4 shows
the H_(c2)-T phase diagram obtained from the ρ vs T curves at different
fields. In this figure, T_(c) is defined as the midpoint of the
transition curves and we use the equation derived from Ginzburg-Landau
theory to fit the H_(c2) data. In the Ginzburg-Landau theory, it is
known that H_(c2) =Φ₀/2 πξ² and $\xi\sqrt{(1+t^{2})/(1-t^{2})}$, where
Φ₀ is the flux quanta, ξ is the coherence length, t=T/T_(c) is the
reduced temperature, and thus the upper critical field is

$$H_{c2}(T)=H_{c2}(0)\frac{1-t^{2}}{1+t^{2}}.$$
(3)

It was found that H_(c2)(T) can be well fitted by the above expression
yielding H_(c2)(0)=11.6 T. Further more the temperature dependence of
the H_(c2) data from resistivity is consistent with that from the
specific heat.[5] This analysis indicates that LiTi₂O₄ is a typical
type-II BCS superconductor.

Figure 5 shows the temperature dependence of resistance near the
transition region under a high magnetic field. For the fresh sample as
shown in Fig. 3, we have not observed a

Figure 4: The upper critical field determined from the midpoint of the
superconducting transition for the fresh LiTi₂O₄ sample. The solid line
represents the best fitting curve of the Ginzburg-Landau theory yielding
H_(c2)(0)=11.6 T.

Figure 5: Temperature dependence of resistance near the transition
region under high magnetic fields. (a) Fresh sample. No resistivity
minimum has been observed near the superconducting transition. (b) Aged
sample. It shows an abnormal resistive upturn near the superconducting
transition.

Figure 3: The superconducting transition of the fresh LiTi₂O₄ sample
measured at different magnetic fields. The transition curve shifts
parallel down to a lower temperature with increasing field, which is
similar to the conventional electron-phonon coupling superconductors.

broad minimum in a resistance curve near the superconducting transition
under different magnetic fields, which is very different from the
results of Refs. [9] and [10]. While for the aged sample, an obvious
abnormal upturn was observed on the _R_(_T_) curve measured in a higher
field, which is similar to the previous reports.[11, 12] Considering
that the aged sample may have some off-stoichiometric phases, we can
conclude that the abnormal resistive upturn near the transition region
is also not an intrinsic character of pure stoichiometric LiTi₂O₄.

Figure 6 shows the normalized spectra of PtIr/LiTi₂O₄ point contact
(denoted by open circles) with a clear Andreev reflection peak at zero
bias. It is noted that the characteristics of superconductivity
disappear completely at about 12 K, so the backgrounds of all measured
spectra are constructed from the high-bias part according to the
functional form of the spectra at 12 K. Divided by such background, the
measured spectrum is converted to the normalized one, which can be
readily compared with the BTK theory. Meanwhile, the zero bias value on
the normalized spectrum is approximately equal to the zero bias
conductance relative to the high-bias one.

In the generalized BTK model,[17] two parameters are introduced to
describe the necessary physical quantities, i.e., the effective
potential barrier (_Z_) and the superconducting energy gap (Δ). As an
extension, the quasiparticle energy E is replaced by _E_+_i_Γ, where Γ
is the broadening parameter characterizing the finite lifetime of the
quasiparticles due to inelastic scattering near the _N_/_S_
microconstriction.[18, 19] Because the junction resistance derived from
the high-bias resistive values is approximately constant from 2 to 12 K,
the barrier height Z is assumed to be constant and independent of
temperature in the fitting procedure. Hence one can obtain Z = 0.12 +-
0.02 by fitting the spectrum of 2 K and applying it in the fitting for
all temperatures. The fitting parameters Γ are presented in Fig. 7(b).
The parameter of Γ is nearly constant below 7 K indicating the stability
of the point-contact measurements. Above 7 K, the Γ value increases with
increasing temperature; this may be related to the enhancement of the
quasiparticle scattering by fluctuations near the critical temperature.

The ballistic formulas used here can be explained in the following
discussion. From the raw data of the directional spectral measurements,
the differential conductance in high bias is linear with the bias. It
indicated that there is no thermal effect in our measurement, because
the thermal effect would lead to a decline of the conductance at high
bias. The size of the point contacts is estimated using the formulas of
R = R0(1 + Z2) and R0 = _pl_/_4a_2. Here l is the mean free path of the
electron which is about 32 A,5 Z (=0.1) is the barrier height, and R is
the junction resistance. In this work R is between 60 and 150 O, so R =
100 O was taken in this estimation. r is the resistivity of LiTi₂O₄
which has a value of about 1 mΩ/cm. It gives the contact diameter a = 90
A which is close to l = 32 A, indicating that our point-contact
junctions are between the diffusive limit and the ballistic limit.
Although the diffusive limit and ballistic limit have different formulas
to fit the experimental data, the difference between the superconducting
energy gap values derived from

Figure 6: The temperature dependent Andreev reflection spectra measured
on the PtIr/LiTi₂O₄ point contact, which have been normalized by the
high-bias conductance. The curves have been shifted for clarity. The
corresponding temperature from the bottom up increases from 2 to 12 K
with a step of 0.5 K. The solid lines denote the _s_-wave BTK
simulations and the open circles are the measured Andreev reflection
spectra. (a) Fitting to the isotropic _s_-wave BTK model. (b) Fitting to
the anisotropic _s_-wave BTK model.

Figure 7: (a) The temperature dependence of the superconducting gap. The
solid line represents the gap predicted by the BCS theory and the solid
and open circles are obtained by a fitting to the isotropic and
anisotropic _s_-wave BTK theory, respectively. The inset shows the
statistics of Δ(0) for different positions on the sample surface. (b)
The temperature dependence of the fitting parameter Γ. The solid and
open circles are determined by a fitting to the isotropic and
anisotropic _s_-wave model, respectively.

the two limits is very little. The major difference is between the Z
values given by these two limits.[20] Since we focused our attention on
the behavior of the superconducting energy gap here, it should be
reasonable to use the formula of the ballistic limit in this paper.

The solid lines in Fig. 6(a) represent the fitting results by the
isotropic s-wave BTK model. As denoted by the solid circles in Fig.
7(a), the temperature dependence of the superconducting gap determinded
by the fitting to s-wave isotropic BTK model is consistent with the
prediction of the BCS theory. We have measured the spectra at 20
different positions on the sample surface. There are six similar curves
with clear Andreev reflection peaks, which give Δ(0) varying within a
small extent shown in the inset of Fig. 7(a). The other unrepeated
curves, which have complex structure, are owing to the intergrain
Josephson effect[21] or the aging effect at surface.

Because LiTi₂O₄ is unstable to the exposure in air and humidity, and the
polycrystalline sample is loose, zero resistivity often cannot be
achieved after being exposed to air for some time. Considering the aging
effect, the superconducting property on the sample surface is usually
weaker than the bulk. Hence selecting the definite T_(C) value (∼11 K)
derived from Fig. 7(a) and the Δ₀=1.9 meV by fitting to the s-wave
isotropic BTK model, we obtained the gap ratio of 2Δ₀/k_(B)T_(C) = 4,
which is close to the result from the specific heat data (∼4),[5]
indicating an intermediate coupling in LiTi₂O₄. The obtained value of
the gap ratio is also close to that derived from the more detailed
theoretical calculation (∼3.84).[22] The calculation gives the
electron-phonon coupling constant of λ = 0.657 implying an intermediate
coupling. For clarity, we presented in Table I the present result in
comparison with the previously reported ones. All these experiments
suggest that the superconductivity of LiTi₂O₄ can be well understood
within the usual intermediate-coupling s-wave BCS-type mechanism.

We have also tried to fit the spectra using the anisotropic s-wave model
with the gap function of Δ(θ) = Δ₀|cos (2θ)|. The solid lines in Fig.
6(b) represent the calculated curves and the open circles in Fig. 7(a)
are the determined Δ(T) relation. By comparing the magnitudes of the sum
of the squared deviations between the fitted data and the trial
functions (i.e., the isotropic and anisotropic ones), we found that the
fitting is a little better for the anisotropic s-wave model than that of
the isotropic one while the obtained Δ(T) relations from two models are
similar to each other. Δ₀ (≈2.5 meV) derived from a fitting to the
anisotropic s-wave model is greater than the case of the isotropic one.
The reason is that the isotropic gap is approximately equal to the
average of the anisotropic gap in the integrating region of θ = [−π/2,
π/2]. Although according to the above discussions the gap anisotropy
cannot be confirmed in our experiment, the Δ(T) relations derived from
both the isotropic and the anisotropic model are all satisfied with the
BCS theory.

In summary, we have measured the resistivity and Andreev reflection
spectra of the polycrystalline LiTi₂O₄ samples. The temperature
dependence of resistivity follows Bloch-Gruneisen theory above 90 K
being consistent with the electron-phonon scattering mechanism.
Meanwhile, the T² law is satisfied for the resistivity below 90 K
suggesting the validity of the Fermi liquid picture above T_(c). The
upper critical field has also been determined by fitting the
experimental data to the Ginzburg-Landau theory. The Andreev reflection
spectrum gives Δ₀=1.9 meV and 2Δ₀/k_(B)T_(C) = 4. All these results
support the conclusion that LiTi₂O₄ is a type-II intermediate-coupling
s-wave BCS superconductor and a conventional metal in a normal state. In
comparison with the fresh sample, we observed a resistive hump in a
normal state and an abnormal upturn of ρ(T) near the superconducting
region under magnetic field for an aged LiTi₂O₄ sample. It is concluded
that all these exotic ρ(T) behaviors are not intrinsic characters of the
pure stoichiometric LiTi₂O₄ but due to the inhomogeneous distribution of
Li by the aged effect.

The authors are grateful to Y. Wang, L. Fang, Z. Wang, H. Gao, and Y.
Huang for technical assistance and helpful discussions regarding
measurement. This work was supported by the National Natural Science
Foundation of China, the Ministry of Science and Technology of China
within 973 Project No. 2006CB01000, and the Chinese Academy of Science
within the knowledge innovation project.

## References

* [1] S. Satpathy and R. M. Martin, Phys. Rev. B **36**, R7269 (1987). *
[2] R. W. McCallum, D. C. Johnston, C. A. Luengo, and M. B. Maple, J.
Low Temp. Phys. **25**, 177 (1976). * [3] T. Ekino and J. Akimitsu,
Physica B **165-166**, 1599 (1990). * [4] K. W. Ng, Z. G. Khim, Danny P.
Shum, and E. L. Wolf, Surf. Sci. **181**, 37 (1987). * [5] C. P. Sun, J.
Y. Lin, S. Mollah, P. L. Ho, H. D. Yang, F. C. Hsu, Y. C. Liao, and M.
K. Wu, Phys. Rev. B **70**, 054519 (2004). * [6] D. C. Johnston, J. Low
Temp. Phys. **25**, 145 (1976). * [7] M. R. Harrison, P. P. Edwards, and
J. B. Goodenough, Philos. Mag. B **52**, 679 (1985). * [8] J. M. Heintz,
M. Drillon, R. Kuentzler, Y. Dossmann, J. P. Kappler, O. Durmeyer, and
F. Gautier, Z. Phys. B: Condens. Matter **76**, 303 (1989). * [9] F.
Fazileh, R. J. Gooding, and D. C. Johnston, Phys. Rev. B **69**, 104503
(2004). * [10] F. Xu, Y. C. Liao, M. J. Wang, C. T. Wu, K. F. Chiu, and
M. K.

  ---------------- ----------- ------------- -------- --------------
     Parameters      Ref. 3       Ref. 4      Ref. 5   Present work
      Δ₀ (meV)      1.75–1.85   1.95 ± 0.03    1.97        1.9
   2Δ₀/k_(B)T_(C)    3.5–3.7    4.00 ± 0.06    4.0          4
  ---------------- ----------- ------------- -------- --------------

Table 1: The result of present work in comparison with the earlier
reports.

Wu, J. Low Temp. Phys. **131**, 569 (2003). * [11] Y. C. Liao, C. H. Du,
F. Xu, M. J. Wang, C. Wu, Y. Y. Hsu, and M. K. Wu, Physica C
**408-410**, 369 (2004). * [12] Y. C. Liao, F. Xu, M. J. Wang, C. T. Wu,
and M. K. Wu, J. Low Temp. Phys. **131**, 781 (2003). * [13] H. X. Geng,
A. F. Dong, G. C. Che, W. W. Huang, S. L. Jia, and Z. X. Zhao, Physica C
**432**, 53 (2005). * [14] H. L. Engquist, Phys. Rev. B **21**, 2067
(1980). * [15] S. Y. Li, R. Fan, X. H. Chen, C. H. Wang, W. Q. Mo, K. Q.
Ruan, Y. M. Xiong, X. G. Luo, H. T. Zhang, L. Li, Z. Sun, and L. Z. Cao,
Phys. Rev. B **64**, 132505 (2001). * [16] F. Gompf, B. Renker, and H.
Mutka, Physica B **180&181**, 459 (1992). * [17] G. E. Blonder, M.
Tinkham, and T. M. Klapwijk, Phys. Rev. B **25**, 4515 (1982). * [18] R.
C. Dynes, J. P. Garno, G. B. Hertel, and T. P. Orlando, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**53**, 2437 (1984). * [19] A. Plecenik, M. Grajcar, S. Benacka, P.
Seidel, and A. Pfuch, Phys. Rev. B **49**, 10016 (1994). * [20] G. T.
Woods, R. J. Soulen, Jr., I. I. Mazin, B. Nadgorny, M. S. Osofsky, J.
Sanders, H. Srikanth, W. F. Egelhoff, and R. Datta, Phys. Rev. B **70**,
054416 (2004). * [21] L. Shan, H. J. Tao, H. Gao, Z. Z. Li, Z. A. Ren,
G. C. Che, and H. H. Wen, Phys. Rev. B **68**, 144510 (2003). * [22] T.
Oda, M. Shirai, N. Suzuki, and K. Motizuki, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter
**6**, 6997 (1994).
