# Conventional superconductivity in SrPd₂Ge₂

T. K. Kim,^(1, 2, *) A. N. Yaresko,³ V. B. Zabolotnyy,² A. A.
Kordyuk,^(2, 4) D. V. Evtushinsky,² N. H. Sung,⁵ B. K. Cho,^(5, 6) T.
Samuely,⁷ P. Szabo,⁸ J. G. Rodrigo,⁹ J. T. Park,³ D. S. Inosov,³ P.
Samuely,⁸ B. Buchner,² and S. V. Borisenko²

¹Diamond Light Source Ltd., Didcot OX11 0DE, United Kingdom

²Leibniz-Institute for Solid State and Materials Research Dresden,
P.O.Box 270116, D-01171 Dresden, Germany

³Max Planck Institute for Solid State Research, Heisenbergstrasse 1,
D-70569 Stuttgart, Germany

⁴Institute of Metal Physics, National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine,
03142 Kyiv, Ukraine

⁵School of Materials Science and Engineering, Gwangju Institute of
Science and Technology, Gwangju 500-712, Korea

⁶Department of Nanobio Materials and Electronics, Gwangju Institute of
Science and Technology, Gwangju 500-712, Korea

⁷Institute of Physics, Faculty of Science, P. J. Safarik University,
Park Angelinum 9, SK-04001 Kosice, Slovakia

⁸Centre of Low Temperature Physics, Institute of Experimental Physics,
Slovak Academy of Sciences, Watsonova 47, SK-04001 Kosice, Slovakia

⁹Laboratorio de Bajas Temperaturas, Departamento de Fisica de la Materia
Condensada, Instituto de Ciencia de Materiales Nicolas Cabrera,
Universidad Autonoma de Madrid, E-28049 Madrid, Spain

###### Abstract

The electronic structure of SrPd₂Ge₂ single crystals is studied by
angle-resolved photoemission spectroscopy (ARPES), scanning tunneling
spectroscopy (STS), and band structure calculations within the
local-density approximation (LDA). The STS measurements show a single
s-wave superconducting energy gap Δ(0) = 0.5 meV. The photon-energy
dependence of the observed Fermi surface reveals a strongly
three-dimensional character of the corresponding electronic bands. By
comparing the experimentally measured and calculated Fermi velocities a
renormalization factor of 0.95 is obtained, which is much smaller than
typical values reported in Fe-based superconductors. We ascribe such an
unusually low band renormalization to the different orbital character of
the conduction electrons and, using ARPES and STS data, argue that
SrPd₂Ge₂ is likely to be a conventional superconductor, which makes it
clearly distinct from isostructural iron pnictide superconductors of the
"122" family.

pacs: DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.85.014520 + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL
REVIEW B **85**, 014520 (2012)

## I Introduction

Since the discovery of superconductivity in iron pnictides,[1] several
families of these novel superconductors have been studied. Among them, a
broad family of the so-called "122" superconductors based on AFe₂As₂
systems (A= Ca, Sr, or Ba) with transition temperatures up to T_(c) ≈ 38
K was prepared by a charge-carrier doping, i.e., by partial substitution
of alkaline metals for alkaline-earth metals or by partial replacement
of Fe (in [Fe₂As₂] layers) with other 3d transition metals, such as Co
or Ni,[2, 3] or by partial substitution of As with P.[4, 5] Similar to
the superconducting cuprates,[6] all these compounds have
quasi-two-dimensional crystal structures formed by iron-pnictide layers
separated by different buffer layers. The partially occupied bands from
these iron-pnictide layers determine the electronic structure of the
materials in the near-Fermi-level (FL) region, which in turn determines
the superconducting properties.

One of the puzzles of iron-based superconductors is the role of
magnetism and the effects of chemical and structural tuning on
superconducting properties. Thus, the recent discovery[7] of a new
low-temperature (T_(c) ≈ 2.7 K) stoichiometric superconductor SrPd₂Ge₂
isostructural with the group of 122 iron pnictides appears intriguing
not only because this compound is pnictogen and chalcogen free but also
because it has the magnetic metal (Fe) completely replaced by the
nonmagnetic metal (Pd). It is, therefore, interesting whether SrPd₂Ge₂
starts a new family of exotic superconductors similar to pnictides. In
this paper we show that SrPd₂Ge₂ is, in fact, very different from the
122 family of pnictides: its electronic structure is strongly
three-dimensional (3D) and is well described within local-density
approximation (LDA), and it has a single isotropic superconducting gap
with 2Δ/kT_(c) = 4, not largely exceeding the Bardeen-Cooper-Schrieffer
(BCS) theory universal value, thus leaving no space for exotic
electronic states.

## II Methods

Single crystals of SrPd₂Ge₂ of ∼1 × 2 mm² size were grown by the
high-temperature-flux method using PdGe self-flux as described in Ref.
[8].

Temperature- and field-dependent magnetizations of single crystals were
measured by a Quantum Design superconducting quantum interference device
(SQUID) magnetometer. Zero-field cooling (ZFC) magnetization was
measured with increasing temperature in a field H = 10 Oe along the ab
plane of the sample after cooling down to 2 K in zero field, and the
field-cooling (FC) magnetization was measured with increasing
temperature in the same field. For a single crystal with a mass of 4 mg
the superconducting transition temperature was found to be T_(c) ≈ 2.7 K
(Fig. 1).

Scanning tunneling spectroscopy (STS) measurements were done using a
homemade low-temperature scanning tunneling microscope (STM) head
developed in Kosice in collaboration with Universidad Autonoma de
Madrid[9] and installed in a commercial Janis SSV cryomagnetic system
with a ³He refrigerator and controlled by Nanotec’s Dulcinea SPM
electronics. An atomic-size, sharp superconducting tip made of pure lead
was scanned over the SrPd₂Ge₂ sample with bias voltage applied to the
tip, while the sample was grounded.

Photoemission experiments were performed at the 1³ ARPES setup at BESSY
based on the R4000 Scienta electron-energy analyzer.[10] The geometry of
the experiments included a fixed analyzer and a sample mounted on a ³He
cryomanipulator that enables rotation about the vertical axis. The
entrance slit of the analyzer was vertically aligned, and the angle
between the optical axis of the analyzer lenses and the incident
synchrotron beam was ∼45^(∘). All spectra have been measured with linear
horizontal polarization. Single-crystalline samples were cleaved _in
situ_ in ultrahigh vacuum at 35 K. The measurements were performed at
temperatures around 1 K, and the overall energy and angular resolutions
were set to 10 meV and 0.2^(∘), respectively.

Electronic band structure calculations were performed for the
experimental crystal structure of SrPd₂Ge₂ from Ref. [7] within the LDA
using the linear muffin-tin orbital (LMTO) method.[11, 12]

## III Results and discussion

The crystal structure of SrPd₂Ge₂ is the same as in BaFe₂As₂, but its
electronic structure is expected to exhibit a much stronger 3D
character.[13]

Our LDA calculations show that, in contrast to the isostructural iron
pnictides, in which Fe d states responsible for very peculiar nesting of
electron and holelike sheets of the Fermi surface are partially
occupied, the Pd d states in SrPd₂Ge₂ are completely filled, and bands
crossing the Fermi level are formed by delocalized Ge p and Sr d states
with only a minor admixture of the Pd d states (see Fig. 2). As a
result, the calculated Fermi surface (FS) shown in Fig. 3 reveals a 3D
character of the SrPd₂Ge₂ electronic structure with a very strong k_(z)
dependence of the conduction bands. The calculated two-dimensional Fermi
surfaces corresponding to the cuts of the Brillouin zone (BZ) with
different k_(z) values are shown in Figs. 3(b)-3(d).

hv = 80 and 60 eV at 1.3 K are shown in Fig. 4. Indeed, a very strong
photon-energy dependence of the ARPES data is observed, indicating a
strong k_(z) dependence of the Fermi surface.

In order to understand the experimentally observed FS topology, the
two-dimensional MDMs with different k_(z) values have been simulated
using the calculated electronic structure. By systematically varying
k_(z) values, we found that the best agreement between experimental and
calculated band structures is observed for hv = 80 eV and k_(z) = 0.75
(2π/c), both for zero (FL) and 500-meV binding energies [see Figs.
4(a)-4(d)]. A binding-energy shift of 460 meV was applied to LDA band
positions to match the $k_{\rm F}$ value of the Fermi-level crossing by
the electron pocket around the X point. This shift of the LDA band
structure is about 3 times bigger compared to pnictides and can be a
result of the different orbital character of SrPd₂Ge₂ electronic bands.
The same procedure gives the best agreement between the experimental and
calculated band structures for hv = 60 eV and k_(z) = 0.5 (2π/c) for
both zero (FL) and 500-meV binding energies [see Figs. 4(e)-4(h)]. In
both cases, the remarkable agreement between experimentally obtained and
calculated band structures is observed.

Energy distribution maps (EDMs) for BZ cuts in high-symmetry directions
for excitation photon energy hv = 80 eV are shown in Fig. 5. From the
comparison of the experimental EDMs with the ones simulated using the
calculated electronic band structure, we derive the band
renormalization. For 122 iron pnictides LDA calculations usually give
overestimated values for the band width compared to experimentally
derived values from ARPES (Table 1). But in the X-Γ-X EDM the separation
between the bottoms of the two electron pockets around the X point is
∼300 meV higher compared to LDA. Therefore one needs to apply a
multiplier of 1.26 to LDA bands to get the best agreement with the
experimentally derived band structure. This corresponds to the band
renormalization factor of 0.8.

Another approach to obtain the value of renormalization of the
band-forming electron pockets around the X point is to determine the
Fermi velocity of the band at the Fermi level and compare it to the
value from the calculated bare-band dispersion. Fitting the positions of
momentum distribution curve maxima within first 200 meV below the Fermi
level, we obtain the band dispersion and the corresponding value of the
Fermi velocity. The ratio of calculated Fermi velocity
$v_{\rm F}^{\rm LDA}=4.45$ eV A to experimental Fermi velocity
$v_{\rm F}^{\rm ARPES}=4.7$ eV A gives the renormalization factor of
∼0.95 ± 0.1. This value is lower than in iron-based pnictide and
chalcogenide superconductors, as presented in Table 1. For example, for
the isostructural compound KFe₂As₂ with a similar T_(c) of 3 K, the
electron band-renormalization factor was reported to vary for different
bands, from 2 to 4.[21]

This difference in the band renormalization can be explained by the
different orbital characters of the Fermi surfaces of SrPd₂Ge₂ and of
the iron pnictides. In the former, the corresponding bands are dominated
by delocalized Ge p and Sr d states for which the effects of electronic
correlations are treated well enough already by LDA. In the latter, on
the other hand, the bands crossing the Fermi level are formed by
moderately correlated Fe d states. The importance of the correlations
seems to be confirmed by the dynamical mean-field-theory calculations,
which give effective band-renormalization values of 2-3 for iron
pnictides,[22, 23, 24, 25] which are in a good agreement with ARPES data
(Table 1).

The weaker band mass renormalization, as compared with iron pnictides,
together with the strong 3D character of the electronic structure and a
nonmagnetic ground state suggest that superconductivity in SrPd₂Ge₂ is
conventional and presumably of the electron-phonon nature. A recent
study of the specific heat suggests a strong electron-phonon interaction
in SrPd₂Ge₂;[8] however, it shows a significant deviation from the
weak-coupling behavior in this material.

In order to clarify the nature of the superconductivity in SrPd₂Ge₂, one
can use the knowledge of Fermi-surface topology, Fermi velocity, and
energy gap and estimate values for the coherence length ξ and London
penetration depth $\lambda_{\rm L}$.[26] The Ginzburg-Landau parameter
$\kappa=\lambda_{\rm L}/\xi$ refers to the type of superconductor:
type-I superconductors are those with $0<\kappa<1/\sqrt{2}$, and type-II
superconductors are those with $\kappa>1/\sqrt{2}$.

Figure 4: (Color online) Comparison of the experimental and simulated
MDMs: Photoemission intensity measured with (a) hv = 80 eV at the FL and
(c) 500 meV below the FL and (b, d) the corresponding density of states
calculated with k_(z) = 0.75 (2π/c). Photoemission intensity measured
with (e) hv = 60 eV at the FL and (g) 500 meV below the FL and (f, h)
the corresponding density of states calculated with k_(z) = 0.5 (2π/c).
Sample temperature is 1.3 K.

The Cooper pair coherence length ξ and the magnetic field penetration
depth $\lambda_{\rm L}$ can be estimated from microscopic parameters of
the electronic spectrum as follows:[27; 28]

$$\xi = \frac{n_{\rm F}v}{\pi\,\Delta}\propto\frac{v_{\rm F}}{\Delta},$$
(1)
$$\lambda_{\rm L} = \left(\frac{e^{2}}{4\pi^{2}\varepsilon_{0}c^{2}\hbar\,L_{e}}\int v _{\rm F}{\rm d}k\right)^{-\frac{1}{2}}\propto\frac{1}{\sqrt{\langle v_{\rm F} \rangle\cdot\langle l^{\rm 2D}_{\rm k}\rangle}},$$
(2)

where ε₀, ℏ, e, and c are physical constants, L_(c) is the c-axis
lattice parameter, $v_{\rm F}$ is the Fermi velocity,
$\langle l^{\rm 2D}_{\rm k}\rangle$ is the length of the Fermi contours
(averaged over different k_(z) values for the three-dimensional case),
and Δ is the value of the superconducting gap.

The superconducting energy gap of SrPd₂Ge₂ can be directly determined
from low-temperature STS measurements.

  ---------------------------- ---------- ----------- -----------
  Compound                      m^(*)/m    T_(c) (K)   Reference
  BaFe₂As₂                        1.5                  Ref. [14]
  Ba_(0.6)K_(0.4)Fe₂As₂           2.7         37       Ref. [14]
  Ba_(0.6)K_(0.4)Fe₂As₂          1.3–9        37       Ref. [15]
  Ba(Fe_(0.94)Co_(0.06))₂As₂      1.7         25       Ref. [14]
  LiFeAs                           3          18       Ref. [16]
  FeTe_(1 − x)Se_(x)              6–20       11.5      Ref. [17]
  FeTe_(1 − x)Se_(x)               3           9       Ref. [18]
  NaFeAs                        5.4–6.5        8       Ref. [19]
  LaFePO                          2.2         5.9      Ref. [20]
  KFe₂As₂                         2–4          3       Ref. [21]
  SrPd₂Ge₂                      0.8–0.95      2.7      this work
  ---------------------------- ---------- ----------- -----------

Table 1: Bandwidth renormalization factor m^(*)/m and superconducting
transition temperature T_(c) for different iron pnictides.

Figure 5: (Color online) Comparison of the experimental and simulated
energy distribution maps: Photoemission intensity measured with hv = 80
eV in the (a) M-Γ-M and (d) X-Γ-X directions, (b, 3) second derivatives,
and (c, f) the corresponding density of states calculated with
k_(z) = 0.75 (2π/c). (g) Photoemission intensity plot along the X-Γ-X
direction together with extracted MDC peak positions (black circles) and
linear fit (red line) to band dispersion; (h) the corresponding raw and
fitted MDS. Sample temperature is 1.3 K.

Figure 6 shows the tunneling conductance spectra between the
superconducting Pb tip and the SrPd₂Ge₂ sample measured at different
temperatures ranging from 0.45 to 2.7 K. Each of these differential
conductance versus voltage spectra is proportional to the convolution of
the superconducting density of states of both electrodes forming a
junction. All curves exhibit two large peaks located at approximately
±1.86 mV for the lowest temperatures. These peaks, corresponding to the
sum of the superconducting energy gaps of the tip and the sample, appear
at voltages $\pm|\Delta_{\rm Pb}+\Delta_{\rm S}|/e$, where
$\Delta_{\rm Pb}$ and $\Delta_{\rm S}$ are the superconducting energy
gaps of the lead tip and the sample, respectively, and e is the
electron’s charge. In addition, at temperatures above 1.2 K, two minor
peaks at approximately ±0.86 mV come out. These peaks, corresponding to
the difference of the superconducting energy gaps of the tip and the
sample, appear at voltages $\pm|\Delta_{\rm Pb}-\Delta_{\rm S}|/e$ and
represent the thermally activated current induced by excited
quasiparticles above and corresponding holes below the superconducting
energy gap of the sample. For the curves taken at the lowest
temperatures the zero-conductance plateau in the center of the
respective curve goes up to well above $\Delta_{\rm Pb}$. As temperature
is raised, the dip appearing at approximately ±1.3 mV between the two
above-mentioned peaks reaches even negative conductance values. These
two observations indicate that SrPd₂Ge₂ is indeed an s-wave single-gap
superconductor, and s^(±) pairing proposed for the isostructural 122
iron pnictides.[29] which has been associated with unconventional
pairing mediated by magnetic fluctuations, is probably absent here.

The two pairs of peaks corresponding to
$|\Delta_{\rm Pb}+\Delta_{\rm S}|$ and
$|\Delta_{\rm Pb}-\Delta_{\rm S}|$ allow a direct determination of
$\Delta_{\rm Pb}(T)$ and $\Delta_{\rm S}(T)$ from the tunneling curves.
The superconducting energy-gap value of lead, $\Delta_{\rm Pb}=1.36$
meV, is obtained at the lowest temperature. It is in perfect agreement
with the literature.[30] The superconducting energy-gap value of
SrPd₂Ge₂, $\Delta_{\rm S}(T)$, can then be estimated in three different
fashions: first, by subtracting the values of the two peaks
($|\Delta_{\rm Pb}+\Delta_{\rm S}|-|\Delta_{\rm Pb}-\Delta_{\rm S}|$)/2,
second, by subtracting $\Delta_{\rm Pb}$ from
$|\Delta_{\rm Pb}+\Delta_{\rm S}|$, and third, by subtracting
$|\Delta_{\rm Pb}-\Delta_{\rm S}|$ from $\Delta_{\rm Pb}$ (indicated by
solid squares, open circles, and triangles in the inset of Fig. 6,
respectively). All three estimates of $\Delta_{\rm S}(T)$ coincide
accurately with the prediction of the BCS theory. The resulting
superconducting energy gap and critical temperature of SrPd₂Ge₂,
measured by STS, are Δ(0) = 0.5 meV and T_(c) = 2.9 K, indicating
strong-coupling superconductivity with a ratio of 2Δ/kT_(c) = 4.0.

Taking the maximum value of the superconducting gap from STS data and
the details of the Fermi-surface topology and Fermi velocity from ARPES
data, in Table 2, formulas (1) and (2) are used to estimate the in-plane
Pippard superconducting coherence length and London penetration depth
and, consequently, to evaluate the Ginzburg-Landau parameter. If for
iron-pnictide superconductors in Table 2 the obtained Ginzburg-Landau
parameter $\kappa\gg 1/\sqrt{2}$ indicates that these materials are
type-II superconductors, then for SrPd₂Ge₂ the obtained
$\kappa<1/\sqrt{2}$ indeed points to a type-I superconductor, which
contradicts magnetization measurements.[7, 8]

This discrepancy in experimental results can be explained by taking into
account the finite value of the electron mean free path l in a
superconductor. If l ≪ ξ, the superconductor is in a so-called "dirty
limit," and the following corrections

Figure 6: STS conductance spectra of the superconductor-superconductor
junction, Pb-SrPd₂Ge₂, measured in zero magnetic field at different
temperatures between 0.45 K (lowest curve) and 2.7 K, increasing by 0.05
K (upper curves are shifted for clarity). The inset shows the
temperature dependence of the superconducting gap of SrPd₂Ge₂ (circles,
squares, and triangles) in comparison with the BCS theory (line).

to the values for coherence length ξ and penetration depth λ apply: [34]

$$\xi^{\rm eff}\approx\frac{\xi}{\sqrt{1+\xi/l}},\quad\lambda^{\rm eff}\approx \lambda_{\rm L}\sqrt{1+\xi/l}.$$
(3)

The electrons mean free path l can be calculated using the following
formula: [35, 36]

$$l=\frac{1}{\rho}\frac{2\pi L_{c}h}{e^{2}\langle l_{\bf k}^{\rm 2D}\rangle},$$
(4)

where ρ is resistivity value at T = 0, L_(c) is the size of the
primitive elementary cell along the c axis, h is the Plank constant, e
is the elementary charge, and $\langle l_{\bf k}^{\rm 2D}\rangle$ is the
length of the Fermi contours (averaged over different k_(z) values for
the three-dimensional case). In the case of SrPd₂Ge₂ the electron mean
free path l calculated from conductivity data points to the
superconductivity in a dirty limit, l ≪ ξ (in Table 3). The corrected
values for coherence length and penetration depth,
$\xi^{\rm eff}=21.1$nm and $\lambda^{\rm eff}=566$ nm, are calculated
using Eq. (3). These results are in a good agreement with the
magnetization measurements, where the coherence length
$\xi_{\rm GL}=21.34$ nm was obtained from the value of the upper
critical field H_(c2) using the Ginzburg-Landau theory formula for
coherence length $\xi_{\rm GL}=\sqrt{\frac{\Phi_{0}}{2\pi H_{c2}}}$. [8]
The corrected value for the Ginzburg-Landau parameter $\xi^{\rm eff}=27$
shows that SrPd₂Ge₂ is a type-II superconductor in a dirty limit; also
it is intrinsically a type-I superconductor, contrary to pnictides.

Therefore, the fact that SrPd₂Ge₂ is isostructural to the 122 family of
iron pnictides does not necessarily lead to the same origin of the
superconductivity. As has been recently suggested, [39] even iron
pnictides within a single family may not necessarily share the same
superconducting pairing mechanism. This is best demonstrated, for
example, by the presence of unconventional superconductivity in
Ba(Fe_(1 − x)Ni_(x))₂As₂ close to optimal doping (x ≈ 0.05) [40, 41] and
the conventional phonon-mediated pairing in BaNi₂As₂ (x = 1). [42]

## IV IV. Summary

In conclusion, the occupied electronic structure of the pnictogen-free
SrPd₂Ge₂ has been studied by means of ARPES and compared with
first-principles calculations. At variance with isostructural iron-based
superconductors, its electronic structure reveals a much more pronounced
three-dimensional character. The 3D structure of the SrPd₂Ge₂ Fermi
surface is confirmed by the remarkable agreement of LDA calculations
with experimentally measured momentum distribution maps. In contrast to
iron-based superconductors, the orbital composition of the conductance
band is not dominated by the transition-metal d states, which are
localized much deeper below the Fermi level, but represents a mixture of
Sr d, Pd d, and Ge p states.

By comparing the experimental and calculated band structures, the values
of the out-of-plane component of the electron momentum corresponding to
the photoemission spectra obtained with different excitation photon
energies has been determined.

Using the ratio of the calculated bare Fermi velocity to the
experimental one, the band renormalization factor of ∼0.95 has been
obtained. This relatively small value of electron band renormalization
together with a relatively low T_(c) as compared to iron pnictides and
chalcogenides support the conventional phonon-mediated mechanism of
superconductivity in this pnictogen-free compound.

The STS measurements show that SrPd₂Ge₂ is a strong-coupling single
s-wave gap superconductor, with superconducting energy gap Δ(0) = 0.5
meV and the BCS-like temperature dependence of the gap.

The estimation for the Ginzburg-Landau parameter κ = 0.14 obtained from
ARPES and STS data indicates that SrPd₂Ge₂ is likely to be a type-I
superconductor. But additional calculations of the electron mean free
path from conductivity data show that SrPd₂Ge₂ is a type-II
superconductor in the dirty limit with $\kappa^{\rm eff}=27$, in
agreement with the conclusions from magnetization studies. [7, 8]
Preliminary STM investigations reveal the presence of a superconducting
vortex structure, indicating a type-II superconductivity in the dirty
limit, which is in accordance with our results and the magnetization
measurements. [43]

## Acknowledgments

This work was supported by the DFG priority program SPP1458, Grants No.
KN393/4, BO1912/2-1, and No. BO3537/1-1 (D.S.I. and J.T.P.); by the
Slovak Research and Development Agency under Contract No. VVCE-0058-07,
Slovak VEGA Grants No. 0148/10 and No. 1/0138/10, and the 7th FP
MNT-ERA.Net II. ESO (T.S., P.S., J.G.R, and P.S.); by the Spanish MEC
under projects Consolider Ingenio Molecular Nanoscience CSD2007-00010
and FIS2008-00454 (J.G.R.); and by the Korean government (MEST) Grants
No. R15-2008-006-01002-0 and 2011-0028736 (N.H.S., B.K.C.).

## References

* [1] Y. Kamihara, T. Watanabe, M. Hirano, and H. Hosono, J. Am. Chem.
Soc. **130**, 3296 (2008). * [2] K. Ishida, Y. Nakai, and H. Hosono, J.
Phys. Soc. Jpn. **78**, 062001 (2009). * [3] J. Paglione and R. L.
Green, Nat. Phys. **6**, 645 (2010).

  --------------- -------------- -------- -------------------------- ---------------------- --------------------
  Compound          ρ (μΩ cm)     l (nm)   $\lambda^{\rm eff}$ (nm)   $\xi^{\rm eff}$ (nm)   $\kappa_{\rm eff}$
  (Ba,K)Fe₂As₂         50³⁵        4.5               193                      1.3                   149
  LiFeAs               15³⁶        11.4              195                      2.9                    67
  Ba(Fe,Co)₂As₂    100^(37, 38)    2.8               233                      2.8                    83
  SrPd₂Ge₂             70³⁸        1.5               566                      21.1                   27
  --------------- -------------- -------- -------------------------- ---------------------- --------------------

Table 3: The electron mean free path l, effective penetration depth
$\lambda^{\rm eff}$, and effective coherence length $\xi^{\rm eff}$ as
calculated according to formulas (3) and (4). The effective
Ginzburg-Landau parameter,
$\kappa^{\rm eff}=\lambda^{\rm eff}/\xi^{\rm eff}$, is shown in the last
column.

* [4] Z. Ren, Q. Tao, S. Jiang, C. Feng, C. Wang, J. Dai, G. Cao, and Z.
Xu, Phys. Rev. Lett. **102**, 137002 (2009). * [5] S. Jiang, H. Xing, G.
Xuan, C. Wang, Z. Ren, C. Feng, J. Dai, Z. Xu, and G. Cao, J. Phys.
Condens. Matter **21**, 382203 (2009). * [6] J. Orenstein and A. J.
Millis, Science **288**, 468 (2000); C. C. Tsuei and J. R. Kirtley, Rev.
Mod. Phys. **72**, 969 (2000). * [7] H. Fujii and A. Sato, Phys. Rev. B
**79**, 224522 (2009). * [8] N. H. Sung, J. S. Rhyee, and B. K. Cho,
Phys. Rev. B **83**, 094511 (2011) * [9] J. G. Rodrigo, H. Suderow, S.
Vieira, E. Bascones, and F. Guinea, J. Phys. Condens. Matter **16**,
R1151 (2004). * [10] S. V. Borisenko _et al._ (unpublished). * [11] O.
Krogh Andersen, Phys. Rev. B **12**, 3060 (1975). * [12] A. Y. Perlov,
A. N. Yaresko, and V. N. Antonov, pylmto, a spin-polarized relativistic
linear muffin-tin orbitals package for electronic structure calculations
(unpublished). * [13] I. R. Shein and A. L. Ivanovskii, Phys. B **405**,
3213 (2010). * [14] M. Yi, D. H. Lu, J. G. Analytis, J.-H. Chu, S.-K.
Mo, R.-H. He, R. G. Moore, X. J. Zhou, G. F. Chen, J. L. Luo, N. L.
Wang, Z. Hussain, D. J. Singh, I. R. Fisher, and Z.-X. Shen, Phys. Rev.
B **80**, 024515 (2009). * [15] H. Ding, K. Nakayama, P. Richard, S.
Souma, T. Sato, T. Takahashi, M. Neupane, Y.-M. Xu, Z.-H. Pan, A. V.
Fedorov, Z. Wang, X. Dai, Z. Fang, G. F. Chen, J. L. Luo, and N. L.
Wang, J. Phys. Condens. Matter **23**, 135701 (2011). * [16] S. V.
Borisenko, V. B. Zabolotnyy, D. V. Evtushinsky, T. K. Kim, I. V.
Morozov, A. N. Yaresko, A. A. Kordyuk, G. Behr, A. Vasiliev, R. Follath,
and B. Buchner, Phys. Rev. Lett. **105**, 067002 (2010). * [17] A.
Tamai, A. Y. Ganin, E. Rozbicki, J. Bacsa, W. Meevasana, P. D. C. King,
M. Caffio, R. Schaub, S. Margadonna, K. Prassides, M. J. Rosseinsky, and
F. Baumberger, Phys. Rev. Lett. **104**, 097002 (2010). * [18] F. Chen,
B. Zhou, Y. Zhang, J. Wei, H.-W. Ou, J.-F. Zhao, C. He, Q.-Q. Ge, M.
Arita, K. Shimada, H. Namatame, M. Taniguchi, Z.-Y. Lu, J. Hu, X.-Y.
Cui, and D. L. Feng, Phys. Rev. B **81**, 014526 (2010). * [19] C. He,
Y. Zhang, B. P. Xie, X. F. Wang, L. X. Yang, B. Zhou, F. Chen, M. Arita,
K. Shimada, H. Namatame, M. Taniguchi, X. H. Chen, J. P. Hu, and D. L.
Feng, Phys. Rev. Lett. **105**, 117002 (2010). * [20] D. H. Lu, M. Yi,
S.-K. Mo, A. S. Erickson, J. Analytis, J.-H. Chu, D. J. Singh, Z.
Hussain, T. H. Geballe, I. R. Fisher, and Z.-X. Shen, Nature (London)
**455**, 81 (2008). * [21] T. Sato, K. Nakayama, Y. Sekiba, P. Richard,
Y.-M. Xu, S. Souma, T. Takahashi, G. F. Chen, J. L. Luo, N. L. Wang, and
H. Ding, Phys. Rev. Lett. **103**, 047002 (2009). * [22] S. L.
Skornyakov, A. V. Efremov, N. A. Skorikov, M. A. Korotin, Yu. A.
Izyumov, V. I. Anisimov, A. V. Kozhevnikov, and D. Vollhardt, Phys. Rev.
B **80**, 092501 (2009). * [23] A. Kutepov, K. Haule, S. Y. Savrasov,
and G. Kotliar, Phys. Rev. B **82**, 045105 (2010). * [24] K. Haule, J.
H. Shim, and G. Kotliar, Phys. Rev. Lett. **100**, 226402 (2008). * [25]
M. S. Laad, L. Craco, S. Leoni, and H. Rosner, Phys. Rev. B **79**,
024515 (2009). * [26] D. S. Inosov, J. S. White, D. V. Evtushinsky, I.
V. Morozov, A. Cameron, U. Stockert, V. B. Zabolotnyy, T. K. Kim, A. A.
Kordyuk, S. V. Borisenko, E. M. Forgan, R. Klingeler, J. T. Park, S.
Wurmehl, A. N. Vasiliev, G. Behr, C. D. Dewhurst, and V. Hinkov, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **104**, 187001 (2010). * [27] M. Tinkham, _Introduction to
Superconductivity_ (McGraw-Hill, New York, 1975). * [28] B. S.
Chandrasekhar and D. Einzel, Ann. Phys. (Leipzig) **505**, 535 (1993). *
[29] M. L. Teague, G. K. Drayna, G. P. Lockhart, P. Cheng, B. Shen,
H.-H. Wen, and N.-C. Yeh, Phys. Rev. Lett. **106**, 087004 (2011). *
[30] Ch. Kittel, _Introduction to Solid State Physics_ (Wiley, New York,
1996). * [31] D. V. Evtushinsky, D. S. Inosov, V. B. Zabolotnyy, M. S.
Viazovska, R. Khasanov, A. Amato, H.-H. Klauss, H. Luetkens, Ch.
Niedermayer, G. L. Sun, V. Hinkov, C. T. Lin, A. Varykhalov, A.
Koitzsch, M. Knupfer, B. Buchner, A. A. Kordyuk, and S. V. Borisenko,
New J. Phys. **11**, 055069 (2009). * [32] D. V. Evtushinsky, D. S.
Inosov, V. B. Zabolotnyy, A. Koitzsch, M. Knupfer, B. Buchner, M. S.
Viazovska, G. L. Sun, V. Hinkov, A. V. Boris, C. T. Lin, B. Keimer, A.
Varykhalov, A. A. Kordyuk, and S. V. Borisenko, Phys. Rev. B **79**,
054517 (2009). * [33] The extraction of the electronic band parameters
for Co-doped 122 iron arsenide Ba(Fe, Co)₂As₂ from ARPES data will be
presented elsewhere. * [34] From the Ginzburg-Landau theory the
following exact formulas for the effective coherence length ξ and
penetration depth λ can be obtained:
$\xi^{\rm eff}=\frac{\pi}{2\sqrt{3}}\frac{l}{(1+\xi)}$ and
$\lambda^{\rm eff}=\lambda_{\rm L}\sqrt{1+t\xi/l}$, where t is a
constant equal to 1 for T = 0 and 3/4 for T = T_(c). [27] * [35] D. V.
Evtushinsky, A. A. Kordyuk, V. B. Zabolotnyy, D. S. Inosov, T. K. Kim,
B. Buchner, H. Luo, Z. Wang, H.-H. Wen, G. Sun, C. Lin, and S. V.
Borisenko, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **80**, 023710 (2011). * [36] O. Heyer, T.
Lorenz, V. B. Zabolotnyy, D. V. Evtushinsky, S. V. Borisenko, I.
Morozov, L. Harnagea, S. Wurmehl, C. Hess, and B. Buchner, Phys. Rev. B
**84**, 064512 (2011). * [37] L. Fang, H. Luo, P. Cheng, Z. Wang, Y.
Jia, G. Mu, B. Shen, I. I. Mazin, L. Shan, C. Ren, and H.-H. Wen, Phys.
Rev. B **80**, 140508(R) (2009). * [38] Y. J. Yan, X. F. Wang, R. H.
Liu, H. Chen, Y. L. Xie, J. J. Ying, and X. H. Chen, Phys. Rev. B
**81**, 235107 (2010). * [39] D. S. Inosov, J. T. Park, A. Charmukha, Y.
Li, A. V. Boris, B. Keimer, and V. Hinkov, Phys. Rev. B **83**, 214520
(2011). * [40] L. J. Li, Y. K. Luo, Q. B. Wang, H. Chen, Z. Ren, Q. Tao,
Y. K. Li, X. Lin, M. He, Z. W. Zhu, G. H. Cao, and Z. A. Xu, New J.
Phys. **11**, 025008 (2009). * [41] S. Chi, A. Schneidewind, J. Zhao, L.
W. Harriger, L. Li, Y. Luo, G. Cao, Z. Xu, M. Loewenhaupt, J. Hu, and P.
Dai, Phys. Rev. Lett. **102**, 107006 (2009). * [42] N. Kurita, F.
Ronning, C. F. Miclea, Y. Tokiwa, E. D. Bauer, A. Subedi, D. J. Singh,
H. Sakai, J. D. Thompson, and R. Movshovich, J. Phys. Conf. Ser.
**273**, 012097 (2011). * [43] T. Samuely _et al._ (unpublished).
