# Effects of C substitution on the pinning mechanism of MgB₂

J. L. Wang, R. Zeng, J. H. Kim, L. Lu, and S. X. Dou

Institute for Superconducting and Electronic Materials, University of
Wollongong,

Northfields Avenue, Wollongong, New South Wales 2522, Australia

27 August 2007, revised manuscript received 7 April 2008; published 5
May 2008

###### Abstract

The temperature and magnetic field of the critical current density of
four selected pure and C-doped MgB₂ samples have been investigated in
detail and the flux pinning mechanism has been analyzed. It was found
that the sintering temperature and the substitution of carbon can
significantly modify the flux pinning mechanism. Below 30 K, the reduced
field dependences of the reduced pinning force for all investigated
samples were found to closely obey one scaling law, reflecting the
presence of only one dominant pinning mechanism. A δT_(c) pinning
mechanism was found to be mainly responsible in pure MgB₂ samples while
the δl pinning mechanism becomes dominant for C-doped samples.

pacs: 74.70.Ad, 74.25.−q, 74.25.Op + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL
REVIEW B **77**, 174501 (2008)

## I Introduction

The discovery of superconductivity in MgB₂ below 39 K has attracted a
huge amount of attention [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10] due to its
great potential for applications and variety of unusual properties, such
as its order parameter symmetry and the large anisotropy ratio of the
upper critical field H_(c2)^(ab)/H_(c2)^(c).[2] Because strong pinning
and a high upper critical field are critical for many MgB₂ applications,
a lot of efforts have been made to introduce dopants into the host
structure to elucidate how the crystal structure, internal charge
states, and T_(c) are interrelated, as well as how to improve the
superconducting properties. [2, 3, 4, 5, 6] It was proved that doping
[10, 11] and particle irradiation [12] could be appropriate methods for
improving the upper critical field H_(c2) and high field transport J_(c)
of MgB₂, and carbon seems to be most promising for enhancing H_(c2)
among the numerous possibilities of doping MgB₂. [3, 10] Moreover, a
study of the vortex matter phase diagram of MgB₂ can help in
understanding the pinning mechanism of this material. It is accepted
that the flux pinning force density is a function of temperature and
magnetic field [13] and is determined by the micro- and nanostructure of
the sample. [10, 12, 14, 15] The field dependence of normalized flux
pinning force can give an indication of the pinning mechanism operative
in the particular sample. [8, 10, 12, 16] According to the size of
pinning center, the pinning mechanism can be classified into three
types: [14] point, surface, and volume. Grain boundary (surface type) is
found to be the main pinning mechanism in MgB₂ samples. [12, 16]
Recently, it was also found that the pinning mechanism can be modified
by SiC doping [15] and neutron irradiation. [16]

In type-II superconductors, it is accepted that there are two very
important elementary interactions between vortices and pinning centers:
the magnetic interaction and the core interaction. [13] The magnetic
interaction stands for the interaction of surfaces between
superconducting and nonsuperconducting materials parallel to the applied
field and is very small compared to the core interaction in MgB₂-based
samples, due to its large Ginzburg-Landau (GL) coefficient k [∼26 in
MgB₂(Ref. [7]]). The core interaction stands for the coupling of the
locally distorted superconducting properties with the periodic variation
in the superconducting order parameter. The core interaction includes
two types of mechanisms: δT_(c) and δl pinnings. The δT_(c) pinning
refers to the spatial variation in the GL coefficient associated with
the disorder due to the variation in the transition temperature T_(c)

c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c & & & & & & & MgO & & & & & & MgO & & & &
& δ (0 K)
& & & a & c & & V & T_(c) & & (weight & ρ (40 K) & ρ (300 K) & & & & l &
ξ (0 K)
No. & & Expt. condition & (Å) & (Å) & c/a & (Å³) & (K) & x & fractions)
& (μΩ cm) & (μΩ cm) & (μΩ cm) & RRR & K & (nm) & (nm)
Ref. [13] & Single crystal & & 3.0877 & 3.5214 & 1.141 & 29.07 & 38.5 &
& & & & & & &
165 & Stoichiometric (St-) & 3.0836 & 3.5251 & 1.143 & 29.03 & 37.0 & &
6.0 & 71 & 140 & 1.97 & 0.062 & 5.7 & 3.54
& MgB₂ at 650 ^(∘)C & & & & & & & & & & & & &
& and 0.5 h & & & & & & & & & & & & &
185 & St- MgB₂ at 850 ^(∘)C & 3.0837 & 3.5287 & 1.144 & 29.06 & 37.0 & &
8.5 & 49 & 83 & 1.69 & 0.126 & 4.1 & 4.03
& and 0.5 h & & & & & & & & & & & & &
485 & St- MgB₂+citric acid & 3.0758 & 3.5233 & 1.146 & 28.87 & 35.8 &
0.038 & & 6.5 & 156 & 267 & 1.71 & 0.039 & 4.2 & 3.22
& (C₀H₂O₇) at 850 ^(∘)C & & & & & & & & & & & &
& and 0.5 h & & & & & & & & & & & & &
495 & St- MgB₂+10% C₆H${}_{\rm O}$₇ & 3.0724 & 3.5239 & 1.147 & 28.82 &
35.5 & 0.048 & & 6.9 & 142 & 230 & 1.62 & 0.049 & 3.7 & 3.59
& at 950 ^(∘)C and 0.5 h & & & & & & & & & & & &

Table 1: Structure and physical properties of MgB₂-based samples (T_(c)
is defined as the peak of χ^(′′)-T) as well as carbon content in the
C-doped Mg(B_(1 − x)C_(x))₂.

while the δl pinning is associated with the variation in the
charge-carrier mean free path l near lattice defects,[7, 13] For
polycrystalline,[7] thin film,[8] and single crystalline[9] MgB₂
samples, it has been found that the dominant pinning mechanism is δT_(c)
pinning, which is related to spatial fluctuation of the transition
temperature. However, it is unclear whether this is true with respect to
the mechanism involved in C-doped MgB₂ samples, because C substitution
for B in MgB₂ leads to further disorder[3] and an increase in the
residual resistivity,[10] reflecting the shortening of the mean free
path l.

In this investigation, we will focus on these issues and try to
understand the effects of sintering temperature and C substitution in
MgB₂ on the physical properties, especially on the pinning mechanism.

## II Experimental process

MgB₂ bulk samples were prepared by an _in situ_ reaction method.[3]
Powders of magnesium (Mg, 99

## III Results and discussion

### Lattice parameters

All of these four samples show almost identical x-ray diffraction
patterns. Analysis of the x-ray diffraction patterns of randomly
oriented fine powder samples showed that all samples are essentially
single phase and have the MgB₂ structure, as expected, with an amount of
less than 10 wt

Figure 1: (Color online) X-ray diffraction pattern (Cu Ka) of sample 485
along with the refined and difference patterns. The markers indicate the
Bragg peak positions for MgB₂ (upper row) and MgO (lower row),
respectively (see text).

Figure 2: (Color online) J_(c)(H) at various temperatures for samples
(a) 185 and (b) 485. The insets show the temperature dependence of the
irreversibility field $\mu_{0}H_{\rm irr}$ for these samples, with the
solid line standing for the fitting result obtained by using the
[1 − (T/T_(c))²]^(3/2) law.

Table 1 and were estimated by using x=7.5×Δ(c/a), where Δ(c/a) is the
change in c/a compared to the pure MgB₂,[11] as reported in Ref. [3].
(Here, we use the single crystal MgB₂ as a reference point.[18])

### Flux pinning mechanism

We have measured the magnetic hysteresis loops for all samples at
various temperatures below T_(c). From these M(H) loops, the J_(c)(B)
curves have been calculated at various temperatures by using the Bean
model[3] and are shown in Figs. 2(a) and 2(b) for samples 185 and 485,
respectively, as typical examples. The case is quite similar for the
other two samples. The curves for lower temperature (T<13 K) are not
shown because of a large flux jump. It can be seen that the C-doped
sample exhibits higher J_(c) values compared to the undoped sample at
the same sintering temperature. For example, J_(c) at 15 K and 20 K for
No. 485 is 62 000 and 33 000 A/cm² at 1 T, respectively, while the
corresponding values are 44 000 and 29 000 A/cm² for No. 185, by
comparison.

It is well established that in the mixed state of a type-II
superconductor, if the flux pinning is dominated by a single mechanism,
the field dependence of the pinning force (F_(p) = μ₀H×J_(c)) should
obey the general relationship[8, 14] that F_(p) is proportional to
h^(n)(1 − h)^(m), where h is the reduced field, with h=H/$H_{\rm irr}$,
and n and m depend on the type of pinning. There are various methods
reported in literature[8] to determine the irreversibility field
$B_{\rm irr}$=$\mu_{0}H_{\rm irr}$ in MgB₂, deriving it from both the
magnetization and the resistivity. Here, we use the J_(c) criteria of
10⁶ A/m² to determine the value of $H_{\rm irr}$.[7] It was found that
for all of the samples investigated, the temperature dependence of
$\mu_{0}H_{\rm irr}$ can be closely fitted by using
$\mu_{0}H_{\rm irr}(T)$=$\mu_{0}H_{\rm irr}(0)[1-(T/T_{c})^{2}]$[32],
which is characteristic of 3D flux creep.[7, 8, 13] A similar behavior
of $B_{\rm irr}$ was reported for MgB₂ thin film samples.[8] The
experimental data for $B_{\rm irr}$ are shown with the fitting result in
the insets of Fig. 2 for samples 185 and 485 as a typical example.

Figure 3: (Color online) Field dependence of the reduced pinning force
with the fitting results obtained by using h^(n)(1 − h)^(m) for samples
(a) 165, (b) 185, (c) 485, and (d) 495, respectively. The insets plot
the behavior of the maximum pinning force F_(p max ) vs the
irreversibility field $\mu_{0}H_{\rm irr}$ with the solid line showing
the fitting result obtained by using F_(p max )∝H^(n).

The pinning force F_(p) has been calculated by using F_(p) = μ₀H × J_(c)
and we plot the curves of the reduced pinning force f versus the reduced
magnetic field h (f=$F_{p}/F_{p\,{\rm max}}$ with $F_{p\,{\rm max}}$
standing for the maximum of the pinning force, h=$H/\dot{H}_{\rm m}$) in
Figs. 3(a)-3(d) for samples 165, 185, 485, and 495, respectively. It can
be clearly seen that the f vs h curves exhibit a scaling behavior
similar to what is observed in thin film MgB₂ samples.[8] This reflects
the fact that there is a single dominant pinning mechanism below 30 K in
these samples. We have fitted the experimental data by using the scaling
law h^(n)(1 − h)^(m) and found that it works quite well below 30 K. The
experimental data and fitting results (shown as a solid line) are shown
in Figs. 3(a)-3(d) with the corresponding parameters. We note that
sample 165 gives a quite different value of n and m (with n = 1.03 and m
= 2.96) compared to the other three samples, for which n is around 0.60
(n = 0.61, 0.60, and 0.60 for Nos. 185, 485, and 495, respectively) and
m ≈ 2.0 (m = 1.81, 1.87, and 2.08 for Nos. 185, 485, and 495,
respectively). It has been well established that when n is close to 0.5
(with m ≈ 2), the grain boundary pinning plays a major role,[14] while
the nonsuperconducting point centers becomes mainly responsible with n
= 1. This means that grain boundary pinning is the overriding pinning
mechanism for samples 185, 485, and 495 (n ∼ 0.6) (a similar case was
observed in Ref. [14] for SiC-doping MgB₂ samples and undoped MgB₂
samples with poor J_(C) values at low magnetic field) while the point
pinning becomes dominant in sample No. 165, where n is close to 1 (a
similar case was observed in Ref. [8] for MgB₂ thin films deposited by
sputtering and in Ref. [14] for the undoped samples with high J_(C)
values at low magnetic field). The fact that the exponent m in No. 165
is larger than 2, as expected for conventional superconductors,[14] can
be understood in terms of a possible distribution of parameters
determining F_(p) combined with the particular choice of $H_{\rm irr}$
Ref. [19] and a similar case was observed for YBa₂Cu₃O₇ thin films[19]
with inhomogeneity and undoped MgB₂.[15] The variation in the pinning
mechanism from samples 165, 185, 485, and 495 can be understood in terms
of crystallinity. Compared to sample 165, samples 185, 485, and 495 were
sintered at rather higher temperatures (850 and 950 ^(∘)C) and will show
an improvement in the crystallinity, leading to fewer point defects
within the samples. Moreover, one finds that the fitting of
$F_{p\,{\rm max}}$ against $H_{\rm irr}$ gives a similar value of α when
using $F_{p\,{\rm max}}$∝$H_{\rm irr}^{\alpha}$ (α = 1.71, 1.61, 1.75,
and 1.71 for samples 165, 185, 485, and 495, respectively). The fitting
results are shown in the insets of Fig. 3. From Fig. 3, it can also be
found that the peak of the experimental f_(p) curves at lower
temperatures takes place at around 0.2 for samples 185, 485, and 495
while it slightly shifts to around 0.25 for sample 165, reflecting the
variation in pinning defect center density. The f_(p) curves for sample
165 are much narrower compared to those of the other three samples.

It is accepted that the critical current density J_(c) is determined by
the pinning force and can act as a suitable parameter to check the
validity of the collective pinning theory against the experimental
results.[13] According to the collective pinning model, the
disorder-induced spatial fluctuations in the vortex lattice can be
clearly divided into markedly different regimes according to the
strength of the applied field: single-vortex, small-bundle,
large-bundle, and charge-density-wave type relaxation of the vortex
lattice.[13] With the applied field below the first critical field
$B_{\rm sb}$ (where $B_{\rm sb}$ stands for the crossover field from the
single vortex regime into small bundles of vortices), the interaction
between the vortices is irrelevant, and J_(c) is independent of the
field. Within the intermediate field range $B_{\rm sb}$<B<$B_{\rm lb}$
(where $B_{\rm lb}$ stands for the crossover field from small-bundle to
large-bundle pinning), the dispersion in the elastic modulus becomes
relevant, and J_(c) will exponentially decrease (in the small-bundle
range). In the large-bundle pinning range, the field of J_(c) turns
algebraic with B(J_(c)∝B⁻³).⁷$B_{\rm sb}$ in Ref. [13] is defined as

$$B_{\rm sb}=\beta_{\rm sb}\frac{j_{xy}}{j_{0}}H_{c2},$$
(1)

where $\beta_{\rm sb}$ can be regarded as constants (as within the
framework of the dynamical approach $\beta_{\rm sb}$ = 5).[13]J₀, H_(c2)
(H_(c2) = μ₀Φ₀/πξ², where F₀= h/2e is the flux quantum), and J_(xy)
stands for the depairing current, the upper critical field and the
critical current density in the single vortex-pinning regime,
respectively. By using the J₀=$4B_{c}/3\sqrt{6}\mu_{0}\Delta$ and B_(c)
= $\Phi_{0}/2\sqrt{2}\pi\lambda\xi$,[13] one can easily obtain

$$B_{\rm sb}=3\sqrt[3]{3}/2\frac{\beta_{\rm sb}\mu_{0}^{2}\lambda^{2}j_{xy}}{ \xi}.$$
(2)

It can be seen from Fig. 2 that, similar to previous results[7] and in
good agreement with the collective model,[13] the J_(c)−B curve can be
divided into three different regimes within our field range. In the
small field regime, J_(c) is almost independent of the applied field
before it starts to exponentially decrease first and then algebraically
with increasing field. In order to derive the value of $B_{\rm sb}$, we
plot the double logarithmic plot −log₁₀[J_(c)/J_(c)(B=0)] vs B, as shown
in Fig. 4, by

Figure 4: (Color online) J_(c) of sample 485 at T< 30 K in a
double-logarithmic plots of −log₁₀[J_(c)(B)/J_(c)(B=0)] vs the applied
field. The inset shows the determination of the crossover fields
$B_{\rm sb}$ and $B_{\rm lb}$, where $B_{\rm sb}$ stands for the
crossover field from single vortex pinning to small bundle pinning and
$B_{\rm th}$ is the crossover field to the thermal fluctuations
dominated regime.

using the data in Fig. 2(b) for sample 485 as a typical sample. One can
directly derive the value of the critical field $B_{\rm sb}$ at the
departure point from the straight line (exponential dependence on field)
in the intermediate field and likewise $B_{\rm th}$ (where $B_{\rm th}$
is the crossover field to the thermal fluctuations dominated regime), as
shown in the inset of Fig. 4 for T=23 K. It is accepted that for the
δT_(c) and δl pinnings, the disorder parameter δ exhibits different
characteristic temperatures.[13] Giessen _et al.[20]_ provided
individual expressions of $J_{\rm sv}$ for δT_(c) pinning
[$J_{\rm sv}\propto(1-t^{2})^{76}(1+t^{2})^{56}$] and δl pinning
[$J_{\rm sv}\propto(1-t^{2})^{52}(1+t^{2})^{-12}$] contributions; so, by
using these results, Qin _et al.[7]_ obtained an expression for
$B_{\rm sb}$ for the δT_(c) and δl pinning cases, respectively, as
follows:

$$B_{\rm sb}=B_{\rm sb}(0)\biggl{(}\frac{1-t^{2}}{1+t^{2}}\biggr{)}^{2/3}$$
(3)

and

$$B_{\rm sb}=B_{\rm sb}(0)\biggl{(}\frac{1-t^{2}}{1+t^{2}}\biggr{)}^{2}\,.$$
(4)

Given the presence of core pinning in our samples, it is important to
distinguish between the case of δT_(c) pinning and δl pinning for our
investigated samples. We have used Eqs. (3) and (4) to fit our samples,
and the results are shown in Figs. 5(a)-5(d) for samples 165, 185, 485,
and 495, respectively. It can be seen from Fig. 5 that for a pure MgB₂
sample, the δT_(c) pinning is mainly responsible, while in the C-doped
samples, the δl pinning becomes the dominant factor. In order to confirm
this conclusion for the C-doped samples, we also have derived the
temperature dependence of J_(c) at a particular field, as performed in
Ref. [21] (here, we use B=0.1 T within the single vortex regime), and
plotted J_(c)(B=0.1 T) vs T, as shown in the inset of Fig. 5. Based on
the fact that for δT_(c) pinning, the disorder parameter δ is

Figure 5: (Color online) Temperature dependence of the crossover fields
$B_{\rm sb}$ and $B_{\rm th}$ for samples (a) 165, (b) 185, (c) 485, and
(d) 495, with the dotted and solid lines standing for the fitting
results based on the δl and δT_(c) pinning mechanisms, respectively. The
inset shows the temperature dependence of the critical current density
at B=0.1 T, with the dotted and solid lines for the calculated curves
based on δl and δT_(c) pinning, respectively.

proportional to ξ, while it changes into δ∝ξ⁻³ for δl pinning, the
theoretical different temperature dependences of J_(c)(H, T) have been
derived [21] as

j_(c)(t)/j_(c)(0) = (1 − t²)^(5/2)(1 + t²)^(−1/2)
(5)

for δl pinning and

j_(c)(t)/j_(c)(0) = (1 − t²)^(7/6)(1 + t²)^(5/6)
(6)

for δT_(c) pinning, respectively. We fit our experimental data by using
Eqs. (5) and (6), respectively, as shown in the insets of Fig. 5. It can
be seen that the δl pinning curve is in good agreement with the
experimental data for the C-doped samples. This again supports the
conclusion that for C-doped samples, the δl pinning plays a major role.
A similar conclusion was also reached by Ohmichi _et al._[22] from
studying the rf penetration depth of carbon-substituted MgB₂ single
crystals.

In order to understand the different behaviors of the pure MgB₂ and
C-doped samples, we also measured the transports for these four samples;
the zero field results are shown in Fig. 6 as an example. We estimated
the electronic mean free path at T_(c) from the corrected residual
resistivity ρ₀ for these four samples (listed in Table 1) by using an
average Fermi velocity of v_(F)=4.8×10⁵ m/s and a carrier density of 6.7
×10²²e/cm³.[23] According to Rowell,[24] the corrected residual
resistivity is defined as ρ₀=$\rho_{\rm measure}$(40
K)Δ$\rho_{\rm ideal}$/Δ$\rho_{\rm measure}$, where
Δρ=$\rho_{\rm measure}$ (300 K)−$\rho_{\rm measure}$(40 K) and
Δ$\rho_{\rm ideal}$ is the corresponding value for pure single crystal
of good quality and to be 4.3 μΩ cm.[24] Here, we simply use the same
carrier density for all samples as in the pure MgB₂ (two free electrons
per unit cell) based on the fact that the carbon content roughly
estimated here (see Table 1) is less than 5

From the transport measurements at various fields, we have derived the
value of H_(c2) (at 10

## IV Conclusion

We have investigated the magnetic and transport behaviors of pure and
C-doped MgB₂ samples. A low sintering temperature leads to more point
defects, which are reflected by the presence of point pinning, while the
grain boundary pinning mechanism becomes dominant for the samples with
higher sintering temperatures. Moreover, it has been found that in the
pure MgB₂ samples, the δT_(c) pinning is dominant while δl plays a major
role for the C-doped samples.

## Acknowledgments

This work was supported by the Australian Research Council, Hyper Tech
Research, Inc., and CMS Alphatech International Ltd. We thank Sangjun Oh
for the critical reading of the paper.

## References

* [1] C. Buzea and T. Yamashita, Supercond. Sci. Technol. **14**, R115
(2001). * [2] Y. Eltsev, S. Lee, K. Nakao, N. Chikumoto, S. Tajima, N.
Koshizuka, and M. Murakami, Phys. Rev. B **65**, 140501(R) (2002). * [3]
W. K. Yeoh and S. X. Dou, Physica C **456**, 170 (2007); R. Zeng, L. Lu,
J. L. Wang, J. Horvat, W. X. Li, D. Q. Shi, S. X. Dou, M. Tomsic, and M.
Rindfleisch, Supercond. Sci. Technol. **20**, L43 (2007); J. H. Kim, S.
X. Dou, M. S. A. Hossain, X. Xu, J. L. Wang, D. Q. Shi, T. Nakane, and
H. Kumakura, _ibid._**20**, 715 (2007). * [4] E. Saito, T. Taknenobu, T.
Ito, Y. Iwasa, K. Prassides, and T. Arima, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter
**13**, L267 (2001). * [5] B. Lorenz, R. L. Meng, and C. W. Chu, Phys.
Rev. B **64**, 012507 (2001). * [6] Y. X. Sun, D. L. Yu, Z. L. Liu, J.
L. He, X. Y. Zhang, Y. J. Tian, J. Y. Xiang, and D. N. Zheng, Appl.
Phys. Lett. **90**, 052507 (2007). * [7] M. J. Qin, X. L. Wang, H. K.
Liu, and S. X. Dou, Phys. Rev. B **65**, 132508 (2002). * [8] S. L.
Prischepa, M. L. Della Rocca, L. Maritato, M. Salvato, R. Di Capua, M.
G. Maglione, and R. Vaglio, Phys. Rev. B **67**, 024512 (2003).

Figure 6: (Color online) Temperature dependence of the resistivity of
samples 165, 185, 485, and 495 at zero field.

* [9] Z. X. Shi, A. K. Pradhan, M. Tokunaga, K. Yamazaki, T. Tamegai, Y.
Takano, K. Togano, H. Kito, and H. Ihara, Phys. Rev. B **68**, 104514
(2003). * [10] S. M. Kazakov, R. Puzniak, K. Rogacki, A. V. Mironov, N.
D. Zhigadlo, J. Jun, Ch. Soltmann, B. Batlogg, and J. Karpinski, Phys.
Rev. B **71**, 024533 (2005). * [11] M. Avdeev, J. D. Jorgensen, R. A.
Ribeiro, S. L. Bud’ko, and P. C. Canfield, Physica C **387**, 301
(2003). * [12] M. Eisterer, M. Zehetmayer, and H. W. Weber, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **90**, 247002 (2003). * [13] G. Blatter, M. V. Feigel’man, V. B.
Geshkenbein, A. I. Larkin, and V. M. Vinokur, Rev. Mod. Phys. **66**,
1125 (1994). * [14] D. Dew-Hughes, Philos. Mag. **30**, 293 (1974);
Philos. Mag. B **55**, 459 (1987). * [15] E. Martinez, P. Mikheenko, M.
Martinez-Lopez, A. Millan, A. Bevan and J. S. Abell, Phys. Rev. B
**75**, 134515 (2007), and references therein. * [16] I. Pallecchi, C.
Tarantini, H. U. Aebersold, V. Braccini, C. Fanciulli, C. Ferdeghini, F.
Gatti, E. Lehmann, P. Manfrinetti, D. Marre, A. Palenzona, A. S. Siri,
M. Vignolo, and M. Putti, Phys. Rev. B **71**, 212507 (2005). * [17]
Juan Rodriguez-Carvajal, _The XVth Congress of the International Union
of Crystallography_, Proceedings of the Satellite Meeting on Powder
Diffraction, Toulouse, France, 1990 (unpublished), p. 127;
http://www-llb.cea.fr/fullweb/ * [18] S. Lee, T. Masui, A. Yamamoto, H.
Uchiyama, and S. Tajima, Physica C **397**, 7 (2003). * [19] R.
Wordenweber, Phys. Rev. B **46**, 3076 (1992), and reference therein. *
[20] R. Griessen, Wen Hai Hu, A. J. J. van Dalen, B. Dam, J. Rector, H.
G. Schnack, S. Libbrecht, E. Osquiguil, and Y. Bruynseraede, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **72**, 1910 (1994). * [21] H. H. Wen, H. G. Schnack, R. Griessen,
B. Dam, and J. Rector, Physica C **241**, 353 (1995). * [22] E. Ohmichi,
E. Komatsu, T. Masui, S. Lee, S. Tajima, and T. Osada, Phys. Rev. B
**70**, 174513 (2004). * [23] J. Kortus, I. I. Mazin, K. D.
Belashchenko, V. P. Antropov, and L. L. Boyer, Phys. Rev. Lett. **86**,
4656 (2001). * [24] J. M. Rowell, Supercond. Sci. Technol. **16**, R17
(2003). * [25] W. Mickelson, John Cumings, W. Q. Han, and A. Zettl,
Phys. Rev. B **65**, 052505 (2002). * [26] X. S. Huang, W. Mickelson, B.
C. Regan, Steve Kim, and A. Zettl, Solid State Commun. **140**, 163
(2006).
