# Crossover from two-dimensional to three-dimensional magnetic structure

in Pr1.5Ce0.5Sr2GaCu2O9

I. Felner, D. Sprinzak, and U. Asaf

Racah Institute of Physics, The Hebrew University, 91904 Jerusalem,
Israel

T. Kroner

Kernforschungszentrum, Karlsruhe Institut fur Technische Physik, P.O.B.
3640, 76021 Karlsruhe, Germany

15 August 1994

###### Abstract

We investigated Pr1.5Ce0.5Sr2GaCu2O9 (PrCeSGCO) by several complementary
experimental techniques. PrCeSGCO is not superconducting and the
magnetic susceptibility data reveal three magnetic anomalies at 12, 54,
and 94 K. While the anomalies always appear together, only the two first
peaks are sensitive to oxygen concentration. The presence of 0.5

## Introduction

Copper-oxide-based superconductors have provided an unprecedented
stimulus for solid-state physics over the last seven years. The search
for new materials, the effort to characterize their intrinsic physical
properties, and attempts to explain them caused the rare-earth-based
copper oxides to become an important as well as interesting research
area. A good example of such a development in material science,
particularly in characterizing new materials, is given in this paper.

Complete replacement of the Cu(1)-O chains in superconducting (SC)
_R_Ba₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) (_R_BCO) (_R_ = rare earth) with NbO6 octahedra or
GaO4 tetrahedra1-3 offered a unique opportunity to investigate the
importance of the chain sites which provide carriers to the Cu(2)O2
planes. In _R_Ba₂NbCu₂O8 or _R_Sr₂GaCu2O7, superconductivity was not
found for any R investigated, due to lack of the carrier needed.4
Magnetic measurements, neutron diffraction, and Mossbauer studies1-3
have shown that both Pr and Cu sublattices in PrBa₂NbCu₂O8 (PrBNOCO) are
antiferromagnetically ordered at 11.6 and 360 K, respectively.

A phase resembling these materials with the formula
R1.5Ce0.5Sr2₂MCu₂O_(x) (_M_ = Nb,Ga), has been reported recently by
several authors.4-7 In contrast to _R_BCO, only one distinct Cu site
exists with fivefold pyramidal coordination. Figure 1 shows that these
CuO2 layers are separated on one side by GaO4 (or NbO6) which replace
the Cu-O chains and on the other side by fluorite-structure R1.5Ce0.5O2
layers (instead of the R layer in _R_BCO). It appears that for M = Nb
and R = Nd, Sm, Eu, and Gd, the compounds are superconductors with _T_e
  28 K regardless of R. On the other hand, for R = Pr, the compound is
not superconducting, and the magnetic susceptibility data reveal two
anomalies at 11 and 54 K.6,7 Both anomalies always appear together and
are sensitive to oxygen concentration.7 For M = Nb, the presence of a
tiny amount of impurity in the CuO2 layers, such as Fe, Zn, etc.,
dramatically affects the transition at

Figure 1: Model of the structure of Pr1.5Ce0.5Sr2GaCu2O9 (PrCeSGCO).

_T__N_ = 54 K and shifts it to higher temperatures.7,8 Mossbauer studies
indicate that the higher peak in the susceptibility is related to
antiferromagnetic (AFM) ordering of the Cu sublattice, and the peak at
11 K is probably due to spin reorientation of Cu moments. While the
anomalies are clearly identified by magnetic measurements, no
specific-heat anomaly was observed at either temperature. This unusual
C_(p) behavior is assumed to be a consequence of the high anisotropy of
this layered structure which leads to two-dimensional (2D) spin
fluctuations at T > T_(N). The small fraction of entropy left at T_(N)
is not sufficient to produce a measurable anomaly in the C_(p) curve.

The crystal structure of the orthorhombic (Nd,Ce)2Sr2GaCu2O9 (NdCeSGCO)
was studied by x-ray and by high-resolution electron microscopy.4 The
detailed structure of this material is not given, but it is assumed that
the compound has a _c_-centered orthorhombic structure. Despite the
strong structural similarities between this compound and the SC
Nd1.5Ce0.5Sr2NbOu2O10, no superconductivity was found in the Ga-based
material.

We present here studies of R1.5Ce0.5Sr2GaCu2O9 by several experimental
techniques. Our x-ray analysis indicates that the space group of the
system is _Fmmm_, and the lattice parameters and the configuration of
the atoms in the unit cell are determined. The main purpose of this
paper is to present a view of the magnetic behavior of PrCeSGCO.
Measurements at low fields reveal three anomalies in the susceptibility
curve at 12, 54, and 94 K. The position and the relative intensity of
each anomaly is extremely sensitive to oxygen concentration.

Mossbauer spectroscopy (MS) studies show that the peak at 94 K is due to
the Cu sublattice. Also, in this system, the specific-heat measurements
do not show any anomaly at either magnetic transition, as would be
expected for an AFM phase transition. The absence of the anomaly in
C_(p) is discussed. It is believed that a change of the magnetic
structure in dimensionality from three dimensional (3D) to 2D occurs at
54 K.

## Experimental Details

Ceramic samples with nominal composition R1.5Ce0.5Sr2GaCu2O9 (_R_ = Pr
and Nd) and the 57Fe-doped material ( 0.5

Powder x-ray diffraction (XRD) measurements indicated that all materials
studied are almost single phase and have an orthorhombic structure. Some
unidentified impurity peaks are observed in the patterns and our
attempts to get completely rid of this extra phase were unsuccessful.

The oxygen weight-loss determination was performed with a Mettler
Micro-balance with a heating rate of 6 degC/min up to 1000 degC in
nitrogen atmosphere. The dc magnetic measurements on solid ceramic
pieces in the range 5-200 K were performed at 50 Oe on a commercial
(Quantum Design) superconducting quantum interference device (SQUID)
magnetometer. The magnetization was measured by two different
procedures. (a) The sample was zero-field cooled (ZFC) to 5 K, a field
was applied, and the magnetization was measured as a function of
temperature. (b) The sample was field cooled (FC) from above 150 to 5 K
and subsequently the magnetization was measured. The MS studies were
carried out using a conventional constant-acceleration spectrometer and
a 50-mCi 57Co:Rh source. The specific heat of compact pieces (about 100
mg) cut from the pellets was measured with a semiadiabatic heat-pulse
calorimeter at H = 0 T and 9 T in the range 1.5-30 K, and a continuous
adiabatic heating calorimeter in the range 20-250 K.

## Experimental Results

### Crystal structure and oxygen content

The structure was determined from x-ray powder data of the PrCeSGCO.
Indexing the pattern yields a fcc orthorhombic unit cell with a =
5.471(2), b = 5.543(3), and c = 28.43(1) A. For the Nd compound, the
values are a = 5.482(6), b = 5.547(3), and c = 28.38(1) A in fair
agreement with Ref. 4. Samples denoted as Air or HOP as well as the
iron-doped material all have approximately the same lattice parameters
as their parent compound. Starting from the orthorhombic _R_BCO
superconducting structure, the PrCeSGCO structure is obtained by
replacing the square planar chains of the Cu(1) site by chains of GaO4
tetrahedra, running in the basal plane parallel to the [110] direction.
As a result the orthorhombic symmetry is preserved, but it is necessary
to choose an enlarged unit cell where a = V2_a_123 and b = V2_b_123. The
c axis is very similar in length to that of the tetragonal Nb-containing
compound.7 Rietveld refinement using the atomic positions of
Pr1.5Ce0.5Sr2NbOu2O10 (PrCeSNCO) for PrCeSGCO did not give a reasonable
agreement factor and left few reflections unaccounted for. The
systematic reflections observed indicate a face centered structure with
possible F222 (no. 22) or _Fmmm_ (no. 69) space groups. The final
description of the structure using only the heavy atoms (without oxygen)
was done in space group _Fmmm_. The possible atomic positions of
PrCeSGCO determined by Rietveld analysis of the XRD pattern is exhibited
in Table 1. The quality of the data is not sensitive enough to determine
the free parameters of O(2) and O(3), and the values listed in Table 1
are in accordance with the oxygen positions in GaO4 tetrahedra obtained
in YSr2GaCu2O7,3

The weight loss of PrCeSGCO compounds was measured by thermogravimetric
analysis for oxygen-treated and air-sintered samples. In both cases the
weight decreases  0.16

### Magnetic measurements

Our main interest here is to compare between the magnetic behavior of
PrCeSGCO and the Nb-based material. The temperature dependence of the
magnetic susceptibilities by [_kh_(_T_) = _M_/_H_] in ZFC and FC
processes is shown in Fig. 2. In both branches three distinct peaks at
12, 54, and 94 K are observed and no other anomalies were observed at
higher temperatures. The first two peaks are also shown in PrCeSNCO;7
however the 94-K peak was observed only here. It is noteworthy that the
susceptibilities values of PrCeSGCO are larger by a factor of 10 than
those of PrCeSNCO. The peak at 12 K might be associated with an AFM
ordering of the Pr sublattice analogous to Pr ordering at 17 and 12 K in
PrBa2Cu3O7 (PrBCO7) (Refs. 9,10) and PrBNOO,2 respectively. In fact, in
PrCeSGCO the Ce and Pr are distributed at random over the 8i
crystallographic position, and the T_(N) should be compared rather with
Pr0.75R0.25Ba2Cu3O7 (_R_ = Eu,Y) where T_(N)  12 K.11 As we shall argue,
the peaks at 54 and 94 K are associated with AFM ordering of the Cu
sublattice and the low-temperature transition is related to Cu-Cu and
Pr-Cu interactions and not to AFM ordering of the Pr sublattice. No such
transitions were obtained in the susceptibility of NdCeSGCO measured
down to 5 K (Fig. 2). The susceptibility exhibits normal paramagnetic
behavior down to 5 K and adheres closely to the Curie-Weiss law, and the
fit of the _kh_(_T_) curve in the range 5 < T < 90 K yields _kh_0 = 1.3
x 10-4 and C = 0.92 emu/mol, which corresponds to an effective moment of
2.2_m_B per Nd ion and _th_ = 1.5 K.

All three peaks for PrCeSGCO are readily observed in both FC and ZFC
branches and the irreversibility in the curves probably arises from the
AFM alignment of the Cu sublattice. It is assumed that in the FC process
the external field causes the spins to cant slightly out of their
original direction. This canting abruptly aligns a component of the
moment with the direction of the field and the FC branch is obtained.

For Mossbauer spectroscopy studies a sample doped with 0.5 at.

The effect of different sintering processes on the anomalies in the
susceptibility curve is significant. Figure 3 shows also the ZFC
_kh_(_T_) curve for the air-sintered sample, where a tiny oxygen
deficiency causes a dramatic change in the curve. The peaks at 12 and 54
K coalesce to a huge peak at  26 K and the 94-K transition is nearly
suppressed and also appears to be shifted to lower temperatures. All
three curves in Fig. 3 merge at about 108 K. The _kh_(_T_) curve of the
HOP sample (not shown) looks similar to that of PrCeSGCO (Fig. 2),
indicating either

Figure 2: ZFC and FC susceptibility curves for PrCeSGCO measured at 50
Oe. The paramagnetic behavior of Nd1.5Ce0.5Sr2GaCu2O9 is also shown.

that the latter sample is saturated in respect of oxygen concentration,
or that the extra oxygen gained in the HOP process does not affect the
peak positions.

### Mossbauer studies: The AFM transition of Cu

MS studies has been proven to be a powerful tool in the determination of
the magnetic nature of the Fe-site location. When the ions of this site
become magnetically ordered, they produce an exchange field on the Fe
ions residing in this site. The Fe nuclei experience a magnetic
hyperfine field leading to a sextet in the observed MS spectra. Using
the Mossbauer technique[13] on ⁵⁷Fe doped in YSr₂GaCu₂O₇ (YSGCO), we
have shown that Fe ions occupy predominantly (80

The MS spectra at various temperatures exhibit a superposition of two
subspectra. The main subspectrum (∼ 85

(1) The more intense subspectrum corresponds probably to Fe in the
tetrahedral Ga site, where all ions are equivalent in terms of oxygen
environment and yield a well-defined magnetic sextet. The hyperfine
parameters obtained at 4.2 K are as follows: isomer shift
($\delta_{\rm IS}$) = 0.30(1) mm/s relative to Fe metal, effective
quadrupole interaction Δ(QS)eff = 0.98(2) mm/s, and $H_{\rm eff}$=
420(4) kOe. As the temperature is raised the magnetic splitting
decreases and disappears at 35 K; $H_{\rm eff}$ = 348(4) and 179(5) kOe
were obtained at 12 and 30 K, respectively. Figure 4 shows the pure
quadrupole doublet with a splitting of Δ(QS) = $\frac{1}{3}e^{2}Qq$ =
1.82 mm/s obtained at 40 K after the collapsing of the magnetic sextet.
This Δ(QS) value is in perfect agreement with the reported data in
YSGCO,[13, 15] and is our conclusive proof for our site assignment.

Unlike the case of Fe doped in

Figure 4: Mössbauer spectra of 0.5 at.

Figure 3: ZFC susceptibility curves for Fe-doped and air-sintered
PrCeSGCO samples measured at 50 Oe. The susceptibility of the PrCeSGCO
sample is also shown.

YBCO in the Cu(1) site, where several doublets are exhibited, here only
one doublet is obtained. The reason for that is obvious. In YBCO, Fe³⁺
replaces Cu²⁺ and thus attracts extra oxygen to its neighborhood to
maintain neutrality. In the present case Fe³⁺ replaces Ga³⁺ and no extra
oxygen is attracted.

(2) The more interesting effect to be seen in Fig. 4 is the well-defined
sextet that accounts for about 15

(3) The order of the "dilute" iron probe in the nonmagnetic Ga site may
be a result of iron clustering [the most probable explanation for Cu(1)
in YBCO₇ (Ref. [16]), or to weak exchange and dipolar fields from the
magnetically ordered CuO₂ planes. The Ga site is asymmetric with respect
to Cu spins aligned in these planes; thus the AFM stacking of Cu leads
to incomplete cancellation of the exchange and dipolar fields at the Ga
site.[13] Note also the linear decrease of the normalized hyperfine
field in Fig. 5 which behaves completely differently from the curve
belonging to the Cu site.

For the Cu site (Fig. 5), we assume that the temperature dependence of
the magnetization follows the universal function σ_(1/2)(τ) for spin
$\frac{1}{2}$. This assumption is based on the fact that Cu is a d⁹ ion
in a low crystalline-field symmetry. The solid line in Fig. 5 is the
theoretical fit to

$$\sigma_{\rm Cu}(\tau) = M_{\rm Cu}(T)/M_{\rm Cu}(0) = B_{1/2}(\sigma_{1/2}(\tau)/\tau)$$
with
$$T_{N}({\rm Cu}) = 94\ {\rm K}\ ,$$

where B_(1/2) is the Brillouin function and
$\sigma_{\rm Cu}(\tau) = \sigma_{1/2}(\tau)$ is the universal function
tabulated or calculated in an easy way. The fit of the experimental data
to this curve is our conclusive proof that the iron ions (less than 0.1

It appears that in PrCeSGCO the Fe-Cu and the Cu-Cu exchange
interactions have the same strength, contrary to other Cu-based
high-T_(c) materials, where the Fe-Cu exchange is much weaker than the
Cu-Cu exchange.[17]

### Specific-heat measurements

Figures 6 and 7 show the C_(p) vs T curves for PrCeSGCO materials. In
order to reveal the nature of the magnetic peaks observed in PrCeSGCO
(Figs. 2 and 3) the specific heat at H = 0 and 9 T was measured in two
steps: from 1.5 < T < 30 K and from 20 < T < 250 K. For both samples, we
find that in the vicinity of the peaks observed in the susceptibility
curves, namely, at 11, 54, and 94 K for PrCeSGCO or at 26 and 92 K for
the air-sintered sample, no specific-heat features indicative of
magnetic origin can be observed. This is not the case in other Pr-based
cuprates such as PrBCO,[10] PrBNCO,[2]

Figure 5: Temperature dependence of the normalized hyperfine fields
acting on ³⁵Fe in the Ga and Cu sites. The solid line is the theoretical
curve for Cu-Cu exchange strength with spin $\frac{1}{2}$.

Figure 6: Specific-heat curves for PrCeSGCO measured at H = 0 and 9 T.

and PrBaO₃,[18] in which the Pr sublattice orders antiferromagnetically
at T_(N) = 10 − 17 K and a sharp anomaly in C_(p) is obtained at T_(N).
This suggests that the peak at 12 K does not originate from long-range
ordering of Pr. Moreover, there is no anomaly in the C_(p) curve at 54 K
or at T_(N)(Cu) = 94 K related to the Cu sublattice, as would be
expected for an AFM order of the Cu sublattice (Fig. 7). We shall refer
to these facts in the discussion.

The fitting of the C_(p) curve for PrCeSGCO at low temperatures may lead
to several acceptable mathematical solutions, the reliability factors of
which appear to be close. A fit in the range 2 < T < 20 K for H = 0 T,
with the sum of a linear term for the electronic contribution and a
Debye approximation for the lattice contribution,
C_(p) = γ T + βT³ + δT⁵, yields γ = 72(1) mJ/mol K², β = 1.45 mJ/mol K⁴,
corresponding to θ_(D) = 278(2) K and δ = 0.003 mJ/mol K⁶. γ = 70(2)
mJ/mol K² was calculated by the usual procedure of extrapolating the
linear variation of C_(p)/T versus T² from high temperatures to T = 0.
The fit of the curve measured at H = 9 T (Fig. 6) yields the same γ and
β values, but the smaller δ = 0.0018 mJ/mol K⁶ obtained leads to a
slight deviation around 15 K. A similar fit procedure to C_(p)(T) of the
air-sintered sample in the range 2 < T < 25 K yields γ = 167 mJ/mol K²
and β = 1.24 mJ/mol K⁴ corresponding to θ_(D) = 292(3) K. Thus the two
samples differ only in their γ values.

The γ = 11(2) mJ/mol(Pr) K² for the air-sintered sample is somewhat
lower than γ = 200 mJ/mol(Pr) K² deduced for PrBCO₇,[19] Although the
average γ = 48 mJ/mol(Pr) K² obtained for PrCeSGCO is lower than that of
the air-sintered sample, it is still high enough to claim that in both
PrCeSGCO materials the γ term is remarkably high.

## Discussion

Our susceptibility measurements of PrCeSGCO, which are of central
interest in the present paper, are compared to the data obtained for
PrCeSNCO reported in Ref. 7. Such a comparison is possible despite the
fact that the measurements were performed on samples containing elements
of different valency (Ga,Nb) and therefore their oxygen content is
different. We observe two or three anomalies in the χ(T) curves measured
at low applied fields (Figs. 3 and 4), which are specific to PrCeSMCO
(M = Ga or Nb). No such transitions were observed in the SC RCeSNCO
compounds[5] or in NdCeSGCO (Fig. 2). (The possibility that an impurity
phase is the reason for those peaks was ruled out by Goodwin, Radousky,
and Shelton,[6] who concluded that, even if a small amount of impurity
with a large susceptibility and strong transition were present, its
effect would be minimal on the already large χ of the bulk material.)
For M = Ga, the peak (Figs. 2 and 3) at 94 K, is consistent with our MS
which definitely indicates (Fig. 4) that this peak is due to AFM
ordering of the Cu sublattice. The low-temperature peaks (12 and 54 K)
are affected by a tiny difference in oxygen concentration or by the
presence of Fe, but all the anomalies in the χ(T) curves are related to
each other and appear always together. None of them was observed
separately.

The determination of the absolute oxygen concentration in the materials
is difficult, and Fig. 3 shows that the oxygen concentration has a
drastic effect on the appearance of both anomalies. In the air-sintered
sample, which contains probably less oxygen, both anomalies coincide
into one big maximum at around 26 K. Iron affects also the position of
the peaks at 11 and 54 K which are shifted to 18 and 68 K, respectively,
whereas the position of the peak at 94 K remains unaffected (Fig. 3).
These shifts may be caused directly by the presence of Fe in the Cu-O
planes or indirectly by the change in oxygen concentration (less than
0.25

In RBa₂Cu₃O₆ (RBCO₆) the Cu ions in the CuO₂ planes are in a pyramidal
configuration and order magnetically at T_(N) ∼ 420 K, in a simple AFM
structure with nearest-neighbor Cu(2) spins antiparallel in all three
dimensions. In PrBNOCO, a structure which is derived from RBCO, the Cu
moments are AFM ordered[2] below T_(N) = 360 K with a similar alignment
to that of RBCO₆.[19] On the other hand, in PrCeSGCO, we obtain
T_(N)(Cu) = 94 K and Fig. 1 shows that the CuO₂ layers are separated on
one side by GaO₄ tetrahedra and on the other side by fluorite-structured
R_(1, 5)Ce_(0, 5)O₂ layers. The Cu-Cu short distance is about 6.1 A,
much longer than 3.36 A found in RBCO₆ and PrBNO. It is thus possible to
affect T_(N)(Cu) by inserting different separator layers between the
CuO₂ planes which play an important role in the magnetic properties of
the system.

The intriguing question arises as to why this AFM ordering of Cu in
PrCeSGCO does not show any anomaly

Figure 7: Specific heat for PrCeSGCO and air-sintered samples as a
function of temperature for 25 < T < 250 K.

in the C_(p) curve (Figs. 6 and 7) despite the fact that a sizable
magnetic entropy S = R ln2 = 5. 8 J/mol K is normally expected for the
ordering of Cu2+ spins with s = $\frac{1}{2}$. The unusual absence of a
peak in C_(p) at T_(N) was also reported in PrCeSNCO,7 as well as in
Gd1,85Ce0.15CuO4 (Ref. 20) and in La2_M_Cu2O6 (Ref. 21) systems in which
magnetic measurements and MS studies definitely show a long-range
magnetic ordering of the Cu sublattices. This phenomenon, which differs
markedly from other AFM ordered systems, can be understood on simple
arguments. Let us recall that in the insulating Cu-O-based materials the
AFM ordering of Cu moments can be modeled well by large AFM
superexchange coupling (_J_/_k__B_  1000-1500 K) between the Cu2+ spins
(_s_ = $\frac{1}{2}$) in the CuO2 planes.22,23 This strong intraplanar
exchange yields large two-dimensional AFM correlations with dynamic
short-range AFM ordering at high temperatures. In the 2D quantum
Heisenberg model, a true long-range order cannot exist at finite
temperature. The experimentally observed AFM ordering at 94 K is the 2D
transition. The three-dimensional transition (at 54 K) is driven by a
relatively weak interplane coupling parameter J   10-5J - 10-6J. Due to
this high anisotropy all magnetic entropy is effectively removed at
T_(N)(Cu) through 2D quantum correlations and the small fraction of
entropy left at the 3D transition is not sufficient to produce an
anomaly in the specific-heat curves. The current magnetic results and
the MS studies provide further support of such an interpretation. Note
the similarity of the MS spectra at 40 and 70 K (Fig. 4) which are
temperatures below and above the (3D) 68-K transition obtained for the
Fe-doped sample (Fig. 3). The 2D transition at 94 K is not sensitive
either to deficiency of oxygen or to the presence of Fe (Fig. 2). On the
other hand, the 3D transition is affected vigorously by any small change
in the composition. A small decrease in oxygen concentration shifts this
transition in PrCeSGCO to about 26 K (Fig. 3) and causes a shift to a
paramagnetic state in PrCeSNCO.7 Moreover, the two curves in PrCeSNCO
merge at T > 90 K, well above the observed peak at T = 54 K,
approximately at the same temperature where the 2D transition in
PrCeSGCO is obtained. All of these observations indicate that in
layer-based materials with large anisotropy, the unusual C_(p) behavior
is a consequence of strong 2D spin fluctuations. Thus both PrCeSMCO
compounds (_M_ = Nb,Ga) have the same magnetic structure, but the 2D
ordering, which is deduced in an indirect way in the Nb material, is
clearly observed in the Ga-based compound. Note that the susceptibility
values of PrCeSGCO (Figs. 2 and 3) are larger by a factor of 10 than
those of PrCeSNCO.7

In the absence of microscopic information, an interpretation of the 12-K
peak is not straightforward. However, we suggest two scenarios that
could lead to the observed behavior. A central assumption is that Pr in
PrCeSGCO orders antiferromagnetically near 12 K, analogous to Pr
ordering at 17 and  12 K in PrBCO,7 (Ref. 10) and PrNBCO.2 But the
absence of an anomaly in the C_(p) curve (Fig. 6) casts some doubt on
this interpretation. One approach to reconcile this difficulty is to
propose a magnetic structure observed recently in PrNBCO,1 where the Pr
ordering is 2D in nature, and not 3D. The additional structure causes
high anisotropy which leads to a weak interplanar coupling parameter and
to a short-range order along the c axis. In such a case the magnetic
transition is not detectable in the C_(p) curve as discussed above.

A more preferable second interpretation can be made that invokes an
analogy to Pr2CuO4, where the Pr sublattice is not magnetically ordered
down to 2 K but the Cu sublattice orders AFM near 250 K. Therefore the
peak at 12 K is not associated with AFM order of Pr but related to the
presence of other interactions, e.g., Pr-Cu and Cu-Cu. The peak at low
temperature is always accompanied by the transition at high temperatures
and can be interpreted in the light of understanding the magnetic
interactions responsible for the high-temperature peak. Since the
detailed 2D and 3D AFM structure of the Cu sublattice is not yet
determined, we may assume that the Cu moments are not in a perfect AFM
structure below the 3D transition. It might be a canting of Cu moments
(its origin is not known) from strictly AFM alignment. Due to the large
susceptibility of Pr, the canting moment is not observable in the
_kh_(_T_) curves. At low temperature the Cu-Cu and/or Pr-Cu interactions
begin to dominate, leading to reorientation of the Cu moments and the
anomaly in the susceptibility is observed. This reorientation, which is
independent of T_(N)(Cu), leads to a negligibly small latent heat which
cannot be observed in the C_(p) curve.

Footnote 1: The _T_/_k_B_ value of _k_B_ * [12] I. Felner _et al._,
Phys. Rev. B **46**, 9132 (1992). * [13] I. Felner _et al._, Physica C
**210**, 55 (1993). * [14] E. R. Bauminger, M. Kowitt, I. Felner, and I.
Nowik, Solid State Commun. **65**, 123 (1989). * [15] A. Rykov, V.
Caignaert, and B. Raveau, J. Solid State Chem. **109**, 295 (1994). *
[16] W. Peng, C. W. Kimball, and B. D. Dunlap, Physica C **169**, 23
(1990). * [17] I. Nowik _et al._, Solid State Commun. **74**, 957
(1992). * [18] I. Felner _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **43**, 9132 (1992). *
[19] N. E. Phillips _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **43**, 11 488 (1991). * [20]
G. H. Hwang, J. H. Shieh, J. C. Ho, and H. C. Ku, Physica C **201**, 171
(1992). * [21] I. Felner _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **47**, 12 190 (1993). *
[22] A. Aharony _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **60**, 1330 (1988). * [23]
H. Alloul _et al._, Physica C **171**, 419 (1990).
