# Ground states of Au₂Pb and pressure-enhanced superconductivity

Juefei Wu,^(1,) Zili Feng,^(2, 3,) Jinghui Wang,¹ Qin Chen,¹ Chi Ding,¹
Tong Chen,¹ Zhaopeng Guo,¹ Jinsheng Wen,¹ Youguo Shi,^(2, 3) Dingyu
Xing,¹ and Jian Sun^(@,)

¹National Laboratory of Solid State Microstructures, School of Physics
and Collaborative Innovation Center of Advanced Microstructures, Nanjing
University, Nanjing 210093, China

²Beijing National Laboratory for Condensed Matter Physics and Institute
of Physics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100190, China

³Center of Materials Science and Optoelectronics Engineering, University
of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100049, China

###### Abstract

Au₂Pb is a candidate of natural topological superconductors that has
attracted much attention in the last few years. Combining _ab initio_
calculations with machine-learning accelerated crystal structure
searches, we have found two ground states of Au₂Pb: Pca2₁ phase at
ambient pressure and $I\bar{4}2d$ phase at high pressure. The Pca2₁
phase is energetically more favorable than the known Pbcn structure and
can be a candidate for x-ray diffraction refinement; our calculations
suggest that high-pressure $I\bar{4}2d$ is a conventional
superconductor. By the high-pressure electric resistance measurements,
we observed evidence of a T_(c) enhancement. T_(c) reaches a maximum
value of around 4 K at 5 GPa, then decreases with further compression.
The superconductivity can remain unchanged after pressure releasing, in
line with our theoretical predictions. These results show that Au₂Pb
exhibits abundant behaviors under varied pressure and temperature, which
can help to understand how to adjust its electronic properties by
pressure.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.100.060103

## I Introduction

In the last few years, the Pbcn structure of Au₂Pb is a candidate of
natural topological superconductors that has attracted much attention in
the last few years. Combining _ab initio_ calculations with
machine-learning accelerated crystal structure searches, we have found
two ground states of Au₂Pb: Pca2₁ phase at ambient pressure and
$I\bar{4}2d$ phase at high pressure. The Pca2₁ phase is energetically
more favorable than the known Pbcn structure and can be a candidate for
x-ray diffraction refinement; our calculations suggest that
high-pressure $I\bar{4}2d$ is a conventional superconductor. By the
high-pressure electric resistance measurements, we observed evidence of
a T_(c) enhancement. T_(c) reaches a maximum value of around 4 K at 5
GPa, then decreases with further compression. The superconductivity can
remain unchanged after pressure releasing, in line with our theoretical
predictions. These results show that Au₂Pb exhibits abundant behaviors
under varied pressure and temperature, which can help to understand how
to adjust its electronic properties by pressure.

Since the discovery of the strong spin-orbit coupling (SOC) induced
topological insulators (TIs), topology has extended to more universal
systems in physics [1], triggering tremendous research interests in
topological materials in recent years [2, 3, 4, 5]. The most typical
topological materials are the topological insulators. TIs preserve a Z₂
invariant and the time-reversal symmetry protected helical edge states
or Dirac cone surface states, as seen in HgTe quantum wells [6] and
Bi₂Se₃[7]. The second type is the nodal systems. The bulk gap closes at
particular k points in the Brillouin zone, and the spatial lattice
symmetries such as rotation or reflection play a significant role. They
form Dirac cones, Fermi arcs, or flat bands. Such systems include Dirac
semimetals [8, 9], Weyl semimetals [10, 11], and nodal line semimetals
[12, 13]. There are other types of new fermions or high-order
topological states [14, 15]. In addition, topological superconductors
(TSCs) [16, 17] are another fancy material which has both topological
and superconducting properties.

Similar to the Dirac fermions on the surface, the bulk system of TSCs
has a pairing gap, while the boundaries support gapless Majorana modes
[3]. Achieving Majorana fermions is significant because of their novelty
in condensed matter physics, and their potential applications in
topological quantum computations. The basic idea to achieve TSCs is to
realize an unconventional pairing symmetry for a topologically
nontrivial state [4]. Even though several topological materials have
superconductivity under ambient condition, such as PbTaSe₂[18], the
extreme rareness of TSCs calls for more routines. Successful routines
include the using of proximity effect [19, 20], doping [21], or
pressurizing [22, 23]. To use proximity effect is to fabricate a thin
layered TI-superconductor heterostructure, such as the TI thin film
Bi₂Se₃ coated on NbSe₂[24]. A typical example of doping is the
copper-doped topological insulator Bi₂Se₃ (Cu_(x)Bi₂Se₃) [21, 22, 23,
24, 25, 26]. Cu_(x)Bi₂Se₃ is a TSC and its superconducting transition
temperature (T_(c)) is 3.8 K [21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26]. But the interface
interactions of the heterostructure bring complications to the system;
the doping approach is hard to control, and can introduce disorder to
the system. In addition, high pressure is an effective approach to alter
the properties of topological materials, such as in Na₃Bi [27] and TaAs
[28]. The pressure-induced superconductivity was observed in
high-pressure experiments for several topological insulators
(Bi₂Se₃[29], Bi₂Te₃[23], ZrTe₅[30], Bi₄I₄[31]) and Weyl semimetals
(WTe₂[32], TaP [33]).

Au₂Pb is a candidate natural TSC at ambient pressure [34, 35, 36, 37,
38, 39]. The room temperature phase of Au₂Pb under ambient pressure is a
cubic Laves phase (symmetry $Fd\bar{3}m$). First-principle calculations
suggest that this $Fd\bar{3}m$ structure has a bulk Dirac cone along the
Γ-X line protected by C₄ rotation symmetry. The angle-resolved
photoemission spectroscopy (ARPES) experiments have confirmed the Dirac
cone [38]. As the temperature drops, Au₂Pb undergoes several structural
transitions, and the final ground state is an orthorhombic structure
[34]. The low-temperature phase (symmetry suggested to be Pbcn) is
superconducting (T_(c) ∼ 1.2 K), and topologically nontrivial [35, 37].
As revealed by point-contact measurement, if probing with harder
tungsten (W) tip, $T_{c}^{\rm const}$ could enhance to 2.1 K. Uniaxial
pressure could be the main cause for such enhancement [36, 39]. In
addition, the cooling curves of the resistivity from 0 to 1.83 GPa
indicate a high-pressure phase [35]. But it is still unknown what
structure this high-pressure phase is and whether superconductivity
remains. Thus, Au₂Pb possesses abundant structural properties. It
provides a natural platform to investigate the relationship between
topological and superconducting properties under pressure.

In this work, we study the ground states, the pressure-induced phase
transitions, and pressure-enhanced superconductivity of Au₂Pb by
combining _ab initio_ calculations with high-pressure experiments.
High-quality single crystals of Au₂Pb were grown and details are in the
Supplemental Material [40]. The Au₂Pb powder was filled in a
screw-pressure-type diamond-anvil cell made of nonmagnetic Cu-Be alloy
without pressure medium, and in contact with four electronic probes. The
high-pressure resistivity measurements were conducted in a physical
property measurement system Quantum Design. Pressures were determined
from the shift of the ruby fluorescence line [41].

Structure searches for Au₂Pb were performed using a machine-learning
accelerated crystal structure prediction method [42] for different
pressures. The structure optimization and enthalpy calculations were
carried out using vasp[43, 44, 45] in the framework of
density-functional theory with PBE-GGA functionals [46] and rechecked
with SCAN meta-GGA [47]. We applied the phonopy[48] code to calculate
the phonon dispersions. The electronic properties were calculated using
wien2k[49]; the topological properties were investigated with the
wannier90 [50, 51, 52] and wanniertools[53] codes; and the
electron-phonon coupling calculations were performed using the quantum
espresso package [54]. More details are in the Supplemental Material
[40].

We performed structure searches at 10, 20, and 50 GPa. The known
$Fd\bar{3}m$ structure and Pbcn structure [Fig. 1(a)] were treated as
seeds during the structure searches. After tens of generations, we
picked out an orthorhombic structure Pca2₁ and a tetragonal structure
$I\bar{4}2d$ [Fig. 1(a)]. As shown in Fig. 1(a), the predicted Pca2₁ and
$I\bar{4}2d$ structures are different versions of the cubic Laves phase
structure. The positions of Au atoms and the lattice parameters cause
different distortions among these structures. Detailed lattice
parameters are listed in Supplemental Material Table S1.

The enthalpy-pressure relation is plotted in Fig. 1(b). The
high-temperature phase $Fd\bar{3}m$ has the highest value in the whole
pressure range. Below 2 GPa, the enthalpy of the predicted Pca2₁
structure is lower than the known Pbcn structure. When the pressure is
above 2 GPa, the predicted $I\bar{4}2d$ structure is more energetically
stable. We rechecked the enthalpy with SCAN meta-GGA [47] [Fig. 1(d)]
because the energy between the predicted Pca2₁ structure and the known
Pbcn structure is less than 1 meV/atom at lower pressure. The enthalpy
value of the predicted Pca2₁ structure is still less than that of the
Pbcn structure using SCAN meta-GGA, and the transition pressure from the
Pca2₁ phase to the $I\bar{4}2d$ phase becomes around 4 GPa. We further
calculate the phonon dispersions of the known Pbcn structure and the
predicted Pca2₁ structure at ambient pressure. As shown in Figs. 2(a)
and 2(b), the phonon curves of the known Pbcn structure have imaginary
frequencies, while our predicted Pca2₁ structure has no imaginary value,
illustrating that Pca2₁ is more dynamically stable. By comparing the
simulation x-ray diffraction (XRD) curves [55] (more details are in
Supplemental Material Figs. S2 and S3) with the experiment results, we
find that both simulation curves match well with the experiment data.
The wavelength λ = 0.4138 A is the same as the one used in Ref. [34].
Further comparing the lattice parameters, the

Figure 1: (a) Crystal structures of Au₂Pb: the high-temperature phase
$Fd\bar{3}m$; known low-temperature phase Pbcn; the predicted structures
Pca2₁ and $I\bar{4}2d$. They have similar frameworks, but belong to
different versions of the cubic Laves structure. The golden and gray
balls represent Au and Pb atoms, respectively. (b) The
pressure-dependent enthalpy difference relative to $Fd\bar{3}m$ using
GGA-PBE. (c) The enthalpy difference among Pbcn, Pca2₁, and $I\bar{4}2d$
from 0 to 5 GPa using GGA-PBE. The enthalpy difference calculation is
rechecked by (d) SCAN meta-GGA.

difference between the XRD experimental value [34] and the calculated
results of the predicted Pca2₁ is less than 1

The electronic structure of Pca2₁ is calculated with and without SOC
[see Figs. S1(a) and S1(b)]. Considering SOC, the band structure
crossings along the Γ-Z and T-Y paths open a gap of over 40 meV. Pca2₁
is a noncentrosymmetric semimetal, while Pbcn has an inversion center.
We calculated the ℤ₂ invariant via Wannier charge centers with the help
of maximally localized Wannier functions (MLWFs) [53]. The ℤ₂ invariant
for the Pca2₁ phase is (v₀ : v₁v₂v₃) = (1 : 010), illustrating that the
predicted Pca2₁ structure is topologically nontrivial. Even though the
overall surface states are complicated, we can get the surface state
along the Z-T direction [see Fig. S1(c)]. ARPES experiments can detect
surface states and may provide more evidence for structure
determination. We did not carry out the electron-phonon coupling (EPC)
calculation of Pca2₁, because the unit cell has 24 heavy atoms, which
makes the cost unaffordable at the current stage.

According to the calculated results from SCAN meta-GGA, the predicted
tetragonal $I\bar{4}2d$ structure becomes more energetically favorable
when the pressure is above 4 GPa [Fig. 1(d)]. Both of the calculated
phonon curves of $I\bar{4}2d$ at 10 GPa and ambient pressure have no
imaginary frequency (Fig. S4), suggesting the $I\bar{4}2d$ structure is
dynamically stable. Hence, $I\bar{4}2d$ is not only stable at high
pressure but can stay dynamically stable after pressure releasing. As
seen by the band structure depicted in Fig. S5, the nodal line in the
Z-Γ-X plane opens a gap (∼25 meV) because of SOC. There is always a
direct gap along the k-point path in Fig. S5 for the $I\bar{4}2d$
structure, which suggests the possibility of nontrivial properties. With
the help of MLWFs, the ℤ₂ invariant for the $I\bar{4}2d$ structure is
(v₀ : v₁v₂v₃) = (0 : 000). Further calculating the Berry phase,
irreducible representations, and the charge chirality at specific k
points, we find that $I\bar{4}2d$ is topologically trivial.

To study the potential superconductivity of $I\bar{4}2d$, we perform EPC
calculations with density-functional perturbation theory at different
pressures. Phonon dispersions, phonon density of states, the
corresponding Eliashberg spectral function α²F(ω), and the EPC parameter
λ as a function of frequency for the $I\bar{4}2d$ structure are
calculated at 5 GPa, and the results are shown in Fig. 3(a). The
resulting integral λ and logarithmic average phonon frequencies
(ω_(log)) are calculated using the Eliashberg formalism. T_(c) values
are estimated using the Allen-Dynes modified McMillan equation [56] with
typical Coulomb pseudopotential parameters μ^(*) = 0.1. We also apply
μ^(*) = 0.13 according to Ref. [34] (Supplemental Material Table S2). In
the pressure range, T_(c) has a peak at 5 GPa [Fig. 3(b)]. The
calculated T_(c) at 5 GPa is 5.04 and 4.17 K for μ^(*) = 0.1 and 0.13,
respectively. To further understand the peak of calculated T_(c) at 5
GPa, we compare the density of states (DOS) [Fig. S7(a)], phonon density
of states (PHDOS) [Fig. S7(b)], Fermi surfaces [Figs. S6(c) and S6(d)],
and the corresponding band structures [Figs. S6(a) and S6(b)] at 5 and 0
GPa. The PHDOS exhibit hardening behavior, which corresponds to the
decrease of T_(c), while the DOS are enhanced around the Fermi level. As
shown in Fig. S6, a hole-type Fermi pocket emerges around the Z point at
5 GPa, in line with the DOS results. This new Fermi pocket may play a
key role in the T_(c) enhancement at 5 GPa.

Based on the above calculations, we performed high-pressure experiments
to further study our theoretical predictions. We found evidence for
pressure-enhanced superconductivity. Using different powder samples in
run 1 and run 2, we observed superconductivity in both run 1 and run 2.
In run 1, resistivity was measured at different pressures

Figure 2: The phonon curves of the (a) Pca2₁ and (b) Pbcn structures
calculated at 0 GPa. There is no imaginary frequency for Pca2₁, while
Pbcn has imaginary phonon modes. (c) The simulation XRD pattern of Pca2₁
and Pbcn compared with the experiment results. The experimental data are
from Ref. [35]. The Pca2₁ simulation curves match well with the
experiment curves, suggesting that the previous experiment [35] is
possible to explain by the predicted Pca2₁ structure.

in pressure-increasing and -releasing processes. In run 2, the
resistivity was measured under various magnetic fields at 6.5 GPa.
Figure 3(c) shows the temperature-dependent resistivity ρ(T) at
pressures from 5 to 30 GPa in run 1; all the curves show metallic
behavior. Resistivity has a sharp drop around 6 K at 5.6 GPa. After a
drop by an order of magnitude, the resistivity remains constant around 4
K, which is determined as the superconducting transition temperature,
T_(c). The residual resistivity below T_(c) is likely owing to the
nonhydrostatic pressure condition and the corresponding incomplete
structure transition around the sample’s fringe area [57]. When the
pressure further increases, T_(c) monotonically decreases to about 2 K
at 24.3 GPa, and the upper critical field H_(c2) decreases with
pressure, as presented in Fig. S8. In run 2, the pressure-induced
superconductivity is further corroborated by the resistivity
measurements under external magnetic fields. Figure 3(d) displays ρ(T)
at 6.5 GPa in run 2 under various magnetic fields up to 0.12 T. The
magnetic field is perpendicular to the diamond culet. T_(c) is
suppressed and shifts to a lower temperature with increasing magnetic
field. Using a similar method to that applied in Refs. [37,57], we
further investigate the critical temperature T_(c) (here is the onset of
the resistance drop) dependence of the upper critical field H_(c2) [Fig.
3(d)]. The H_(c2) results have a linear dependence of temperature, and
the data reveals dH_(c2)(T)/dT_(c) = −0.0645 T/K near T_(c). It is
common to compare the H_(c2) data with known models. We calculated the
reduced critical field with
h^(*)(T) = [H_(c2)/T_(c)]/[dH_(c2)/dT]_(T = T_(c)), then compared it to
the model for s-wave superconductors [Werthamer-Helfand-Hohenberg theory
(WHH) [58], H_(c2) ≈ 0.7T_(c) × dH_(c2)/dT]_(T = T_(c)), or
h^(*)(0) ≈ 0.7). As shown in the inset of Fig. 3(d), our experimental
measured data follow the behavior of the s-wave superconductor model,
suggesting the high-pressure phase of Au₂Pb to be a conventional
superconductor. The pressure decreasing results in run 1 are shown in
Fig. S9. T_(c) recovers to 3.73 K at 9.4 GPa and remains almost constant
with further depression;for instance, T_(c) = 3.53 K at 0.85 GPa,
suggesting that the high-pressure phase is likely to exist after
pressure releasing. The T_(c) result after pressure releasing is close
to the calculated T_(c) = 3.41 K for $I\overline{4}2d$ at 0 GPa with
μ^(*) = 0.13. In addtion, the overall T_(c) results match with our
calculated values for $I\overline{4}2d$ (Supplemental Material Table
S2). The experiment phenomenon agrees with our theoretical calculation
of $I\overline{4}2d$. Our results provide evidence of the
pressure-enhanced

Figure 3: (a) Calculated phonon dispersion curves, phonon density of
states (PHDOS), Eliashberg EPC spectral function α²F(ω), and
electron-phonon integral λ(ω) of $I\overline{4}2d$ at 5 GPa. (b) The
calculated pressure dependence of T_(c) for $I\overline{4}2d$ from 0 to
20 GPa with different μ^(*). (c) The resistivity of Au₂Pb for various
pressures as a function of temperature from 5 to 30 GPa in run 1. The
inset shows the detailed ρ-T curves from 2 to 8 K. (d) The resistivity
as a function of temperature for Au₂Pb applied with different magnetic
field at 6.5 GPa in run 2. T_(c) is suppressed with the increasing
magnetic field. The inset compares the normalized critical field h^(*)
(blue squares) to the s-wave superconductor model (black line).

superconductivity of Au₂Pb; we attribute the high-pressure behavior of
Au₂Pb to our predicted high-pressure phase $I\bar{4}2d$. It still
requires more evidence to illustrate the high-pressure transition
properties of the Au₂Pb, e.g., careful x-ray diffraction and more
explicit resistivity measurements under high pressure.

As shown in Fig. 4, we summarize the characteristic parameters (T_(c)
and P) in a superconducting phase diagram for the high-pressure phase of
Au₂Pb. The phase transition pressure is between 4 and 5 GPa according to
SCAN meta-GGA. T_(c) reaches a maximum of nearly 4 K at around 5.6 GPa,
then gradually decreases with further compression. After pressure
releasing, the high-pressure phase remains unchanged, and T_(c) is 3.53
K at 0.85 GPa, agreeing with the theoretical calculation of
$I\bar{4}2d$. In run 2, the T_(c) is 3.74 K at 6.5 GPa, and T_(c)
decreases with increasing magnetic field. Our calculated value for T_(c)
of $I\bar{4}2d$ at ambient pressure is 3.41 K (μ^(*) = 0.13), which is
in line with the high-pressure experimental result.

In summary, we have three conclusions from our _ab initio_ calculations
and high-pressure experiments. First, we predict two new ground states
of Au₂Pb: Pca2₁ phase at ambient pressure and $I\bar{4}2d$ phase at high
pressure. The predicted Pca2₁ is topologically nontrivial and
dynamically stable. It has a lower energy, thus the ground state of
Au₂Pb at ambient pressure is more likely to be the Pca2₁ structure
instead of the Pcn structure. We recommend further XRD refinement in the
future. Second, in the high-pressure experiments, we find evidence of
pressure-enhanced superconductivity above 5 GPa. The superconductivity
remains even after pressure releasing. The overall behavior of Au₂Pb
under high pressure matches well with our predicted high-pressure
$I\bar{4}2d$ structure. In addition, our calculation suggests such
structural transition accompanies a topological phase transition,
because the $I\bar{4}2d$ phase is topologically trivial while the
ambient phase is nontrivial. Lastly, the $I\bar{4}2d$ structure is a
conventional BCS superconductor. Its T_(c) maximum ( ≈ 4 K, at around 5
GPa) is about three times more than that of the Pca2₁ or Pbcn structure.
The pressure-induced superconductivity was first seen in Au₂Pb, and the
pressure dependences of T_(c) from our theoretical calculations and
experiments align well with each other.

We thank Huaiqiang Wang for the help with the fitting of the WHH model.
We acknowledge financial support from the MOST of China (Grants No.
2016YFA0300404 and No. 2015CB921202) and from the NSFC (Grants No.
11574133, No. 11834006, No. 11822405, and No. 11774399), the Fundamental
Research Funds for the Central Universities and the K. C. Wong Education
Foundation (GJTD-2018-01). Calculations were performed on the
supercomputer in the High Performance Computing Center of Collaborative
Innovation Center of Advanced Microstructures, the High Performance
Computing Center of Nanjing University, and "Tianhe-2" at
NSCC-Guangzhou.

## References

* [1] O. Vafek and A. Vishwanath, Annu. Rev. Condens. Matter Phys.
**5**, 83 (2014). * [2] M. Z. Hasan and C. L. Kane, Rev. Mod. Phys.
**82**, 3045 (2010). * [3] X. L. Qi and S. C. Zhang, Rev. Mod. Phys.
**83**, 1057 (2011). * [4] C. K. Chiu, J. C. Y. Teo, A. P. Schnyder, and
S. Ryu, Rev. Mod. Phys. **88**, 035005 (2016). * [5] A. Bansil, H. Lin,
and T. Das, Rev. Mod. Phys. **88**, 021004 (2016). * [6] S. W. M. Konig,
C. Brune, A. Roth, H. Buhmann, L. W. Molenkamp, X. L. Qi, and S. C.
Zhang, Science **318**, 766 (2007). * [7] L. Fu, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**103**, 266801 (2009). * [8] Z. Wang, Y. Sun, X. Q. Chen, C. Franchini,
G. Xu, H. Weng, X. Dai, and Z. Fang, Phys. Rev. B **85**, 195320
(2012). * [9] Z. K. Liu, J. Jiang, B. Zhou, Z. J. Wang, Y. Zhang, H. M.
Weng, D. Prabhakaran, S. K. Mo, H. Peng, P. Dudin, T. Kim, M. Hoesch, Z.
Fang, X. Dai, Z. X. Shen, D. L. Feng, Z. Hussain, and Y. L. Chen, Nat.
Mater. **13**, 677 (2014). * [10] S. Xu, I. Belopolski, N. Alidoust, M.
Neupane, G. Bian, C. Zhang, R. Sankar, G. Chang, Z. Yuan, C. Lee, S.
Huang, H. Zheng, J. Ma, D. S. Sanchez, B. Wang, A. Bansil, F. Chou, P.
P. Shibayev, H. Lin, S. Jia, and M. Z. Hasan, Science **349**, 613
(2015). * [11] B. Q. Lv, H. M. Weng, B. B. Fu, X. P. Wang, H. Miao, J.
Ma, P. Richard, X. C. Huang, L. X. Zhao, G. F. Chen, Z. Fang, X. Dai, T.
Qian, and H. Ding, Phys. Rev. X **5**, 031013 (2015). * [12] G. Bian, T.
R. Chang, R. Sankar, S. Y. Xu, H. Zheng, T. Neupert, C. K. Chiu, S. M.
Huang, G. Chang, I. Belopolski, D. S. Sanchez, M. Neupane, N. Alidoust,
C. Liu, B. Wang, C. C. Lee, H. T. Jeng, C. Zhang, Z. Yuan, S. Jia, A.
Bansil, F. Chou, H. Lin, and M. Z. Hasan, Nat. Commun. **7**, 10556
(2016). * [13] J. Hu, Z. Tang, J. Liu, X. Liu, Y. Zhu, D. Graf, K.
Myhro, S. Tran, C. N. Lau, J. Wei, and Z. Mao, Phys. Rev. Lett. **117**,
016602 (2016).

Figure 4: Superconducting phase diagram of Au₂Pb with the $I\bar{4}2d$
structure. The blue region corresponds to the superconducting phase and
the orange region corresponds to the normal state. The black squares
represent the measured values of T_(c) in the pressure-increasing
process of run 1; the red circles are those in the pressure-releasing
process of run 1; the purple pentagram represents the T_(c) under 0 T in
run 2 and the blue triangles represent the calculated values of T_(c)
with μ^(*) = 0.13.

* [14] Z. Wang, A. Alexandradinata, R. J. Cava, and B. A. Bernevig,
Nature (London) **532**, 189 (2016). * [15] W. A. Benalcazar, B. A.
Bernevig, and T. L. Hughes, Science **357**, 61 (2017). * [16] L. Fu and
C. L. Kane, Phys. Rev. Lett. **100**, 096407 (2008). * [17] C. W. J.
Beenakker, Annu. Rev. Condens. Matter Phys. **4**, 113 (2013). * [18] M.
N. Ali, Q. D. Gibson, T. Klimczuk, and R. J. Cava, Phys. Rev. B **89**,
020505(R) (2014). * [19] R. M. Lutchyn, J. D. Sau, and S. Das Sarma,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **105**, 077001 (2010). * [20] A. Das, Y. Ronen, Y.
Most, Y. Oreg, M. Heiblum, and H. Shtrikman, Nat. Phys. **8**, 887
(2012). * [21] Y. S. Hor, A. J. Williams, J. G. Checkelsky, P. Roushan,
J. Seo, Q. Xu, H. W. Zandbergen, A. Yazdani, N. P. Ong, and R. J. Cava,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **104**, 057001 (2010). * [22] H. Wang, H. Wang, H.
Liu, H. Lu, W. Yang, S. Jia, X. J. Liu, X. C. Xie, J. Wei, and J. Wang,
Nat. Mater. **15**, 38 (2016). * [23] J. L. Zhang, S. J. Zhang, H. M.
Weng, W. Zhang, L. X. Yang, Q. Q. Liu, S. M. Feng, X. C. Wang, R. C. Yu,
L. Z. Cao, L. Wang, W. G. Yang, H. Z. Liu, W. Y. Zhao, S. C. Zhang, X.
Dai, Z. Fang, and C. Q. Jin, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA **108**, 24
(2011). * [24] S. Y. Xu, N. Alidoust, I. Belopolski, A. Richardella, C.
Liu, M. Neupane, G. Bian, S. H. Huang, R. Sankar, C. Fang, B.
Dellabetta, W. Dai, Q. Li, M. J. Gilbert, F. Chou, N. Samarth, and M. Z.
Hasan, Nat. Phys. **10**, 943 (2014). * [25] L. A. Wray, S. Y. Xu, Y.
Xia, Y. S. Hor, D. Qian, A. V. Fedorov, H. Lin, A. Bansil, R. J. Cava,
and M. Z. Hasan, Nat. Phys. **6**, 855 (2010). * [26] S. Sasaki, M.
Kriener, K. Segawa, K. Yada, Y. Tanaka, M. Sato, and Y. Ando, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **107**, 217001 (2011). * [27] D. Shao, J. Ruan, J. Wu, T. Chen,
Z. Guo, H. Zhang, J. Sun, L. Sheng, and D. Xing, Phys. Rev. B **96**,
075112 (2017). * [28] Y. Zhou, P. Lu, Y. Du, X. Zhu, G. Zhang, R. Zhang,
D. Shao, X. Chen, X. Wang, M. Tian, J. Sun, X. Wan, Z. Yang, W. Yang, Y.
Zhang, and D. Xing, Phys. Rev. Lett. **117**, 146402 (2016). * [29] K.
Kirshenbaum, P. S. Syers, A. P. Hope, N. P. Butch, J. R. Jeffries, S. T.
Weir, J. J. Hamlin, M. B. Maple, Y. K. Vohra, and J. Paglione, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **111**, 087001 (2013). * [30] Y. H. Zhou, J. F. Wu, W. Ning,
N. N. Li, Y. P. Du, X. L. Chen, R. R. Zhang, Z. H. Chi, X. F. Wang, X.
D. Zhu, P. C. Lu, C. Ji, X. G. Wan, Z. R. Yang, J. Sun, W. G. Yang, M.
L. Tian, Y. H. Zhang, and H. K. Mao, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA **113**,
2904 (2016). * [31] X. Wang, J. Wu, J. Wang, T. Chen, H. Gao, P. Lu, Q.
Chen, C. Ding, J. Wen, and J. Sun, Phys. Rev. B **98**, 174112 (2018). *
[32] P. Lu, J. S. Kim, J. Yang, H. Gao, J. Wu, D. Shao, B. Li, D. Zhou,
J. Sun, D. Akinwande, D. Xing, and J. F. Lin, Phys. Rev. B **94**,
224512 (2016). * [33] Y. F. Li, Y. H. Zhou, Z. P. Guo, F. Han, X. L.
Chen, P. C. Lu, X. F. Wang, C. An, Y. Zhou, J. Xing, G. Du, X. Y. Zhu,
H. Yang, J. Sun, Z. R. Yang, W. G. Yang, H. K. Mao, Y. H. Zhang, and H.
H. Wen, npj Quant. Mater. **2**, 66 (2017). * [34] L. M. Schoop, L. S.
Xie, R. Chen, Q. D. Gibson, S. H. Lapidus, I. Kimchi, M. Hirschberger,
N. Haldolaarachchige, M. N. Ali, C. A. Belvin, T. Liang, J. B. Neaton,
N. P. Ong, A. Vishwanath, and R. J. Cava, Phys. Rev. B **91**, 214517
(2015). * [35] K. W. Chen, D. Graf, T. Besara, A. Gallagher, N.
Kikugawa, L. Balicas, T. Siegrist, A. Shekhter, and R. E. Baumbach,
Phys. Rev. B **93**, 045118 (2016). * [36] Y. Xing, H. Wang, C. K. Li,
X. Zhang, J. Liu, Y. Zhang, J. Luo, Z. Wang, Y. Wang, L. Ling, M. Tian,
S. Jia, J. Feng, X. J. Liu, J. Wei, and J. Wang, npj Quant. Mater.
**1**, 16005 (2016). * [37] Y. J. Yu, Y. Xu, Y. Xing, J. Zhang, T. P.
Ying, X. C. Hong, M. X. Wang, X. Zhang, S. Jia, J. Wang, and S. Y. Li,
Europhys. Lett. **116**, 67002 (2016). * [38] Y. Wu, G. Drachuck, L. L.
Wang, D. D. Johnson, P. Swatek, B. Schrunk, D. Mou, L. Huang, S. L.
Bud’ko, P. C. Canfield, and A. Kaminski, Phys. Rev. B **98**, 161107
(2018). * [39] H. Wang, L. Ma, and J. Wang, Sci. Bull. **63**, 1141
(2018). * [40] See Supplemental Material at
http://link.aps.org/supplemental/10.1103/PhysRevB.100.060103 for
supplemental methods, crystal structures, electronic structures, phonon
spectra, comparisons of x-ray diffraction patterns, measurements of
superconducting properties, etc. * [41] H. K. Mao, J. Xu, and P. M.
Bell, J. Geophys. Res. **91**, 4673 (1986). * [42] K. Xia, H. Gao, C.
Liu, J. Yuan, J. Sun, H. T. Wang, and D. Xing, Sci. Bull. **63**, 817
(2018). * [43] G. Kresse and J. Furthmuller, Phys. Rev. B **54**, 11169
(1996). * [44] H. J. Monkhorst and J. D. Pack, Phys. Rev. B **13**, 5188
(1976). * [45] P. E. Blochl, Phys. Rev. B **50**, 17953 (1994). * [46]
J. P. Perdew, K. Burke, and M. Ernzerhof, Phys. Rev. Lett. **77**, 3865
(1996). * [47] J. Sun, A. Ruzsinszky, and J. P. Perdew, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**115**, 036402 (2015). * [48] A. Togo, F. Oba, and I. Tanaka, Phys.
Rev. B **78**, 134106 (2008). * [49] P. Blaha, K. Schwarz, G. K. H.
Madsen, D. Kvasnicka, and J. Luitz, _WIEN2k, an Augmented Plane Wave
Plus Local Orbitals Program for Calculating Crystal Properties_ (Techn.
Universitat Wien, Austria, 2001). * [50] A. A. Mostofi, J. R. Yates, G
Pizzi, Y. S. Lee, I. Souza, D. Vanderbilt, and N. Marzari, Comput. Phys.
Commun. **185**, 2309 (2014). * [51] N. Marzari and D. Vanderbilt, Phys.
Rev. B **56**, 12847 (1997). * [52] I. Souza, N. Marzari, and D.
Vanderbilt, Phys. Rev. B **65**, 035109 (2001). * [53] Q. S. Wu, S. N.
Zhang, H. F. Song, M. Troyer, and A. A. Soluyanov, Comput. Phys. Commun.
**224**, 405 (2017). * [54] P. Giannozzi, S. Baroni, N. Bonini, M.
Calandra, R. Car, C. Cavazzoni, D. Ceresoli, G. L. Chiarotti, M.
Cococcioni, I. Dabo, A. Dal Corso, S. de Gironcoli, S. Fabris, G.
Fratesi, R. Gebauer, U. Gerstmann, C. Gougoussis, A. Kokalj, M. Lazzeri,
L. Martin-Samos, N. Marzari, F. Mauri, R. Mazzarello, S. Paolini, A.
Pasquarello, L. Paulatto, C. Sbraccia, S. Scandolo, G. Sclauzero, A. P.
Seitsonen, A. Smogunov, P. Umari, and R. M. Wentzcovitch, J. Phys.:
Condens. Matter **21**, 395502 (2009). * [55] B. H. Toby and R. B. Von
Dreele, J. Appl. Crystallogr. **46**, 544 (2013). * [56] P. B. Allen and
R. C. Dynes, Phys. Rev. B **12**, 905 (1975). * [57] Z. Chi, X. Chen, F.
Yen, F. Peng, Y. Zhou, J. Zhu, Y. Zhang, X. Liu, C. Lin, S. Chu, Y. Li,
J. Zhao, T. Kagayama, Y. Ma, and Z. Yang, Phys. Rev. Lett. **120**,
037002 (2018). * [58] N. R. Werthamer, E. Helfand, and P. C. Hohenberg,
Phys. Rev. **147**, 295 (1966).
