# Large Ca isotope effect in the CaC₆ superconductor

D. G. Hinks, D. Rosenmann, H. Claus, M. S. Bailey, and J. D. Jorgensen

Materials Science Division, Argonne National Laboratory, Argonne,
Illinois 60439, USA

Received 6 November 2006; published 9 January 2007

###### Abstract

We have measured the Ca isotope effect coefficient, α(Ca), in the newly
discovered superconductor CaC₆ and find a value of 0.53(2). This result
shows that the superconductivity is dominated by coupling of the
electrons by Ca phonon modes. The C phonons contribute very little,
assuming that this material is a conventional electron-phonon coupled
superconductor. Thus, in contrast to another layered material MgB₂,
where high-energy phonons in the B layers are responsible for the
superconductivity, in layered CaC₆ the phonons responsible for
superconductivity are primarily low-energy modes of the intercalated Ca.

pacs: 10.1103/PhysRevB.75.014509 + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL REVIEW
B **75**, 014509 (2007)

## I Introduction

The recent discovery of superconductivity [1, 2] at 11.5 K in a Ca
graphite intercalation compound (GIC) has renewed interest in the
superconducting behavior of this class of materials. Superconductivity
in the alkali GICs was first reported in 1965; [3] however, $T_{\rm cS}$
were well below 1 K. The low $T_{\rm cS}$, the reactivity to air,
difficult synthesis, and irreproducible superconducting transitions have
been impediments to many workers. As an example, the original
$T_{\rm c}$ reported by Hannay _et al._[3] was 390 mK for KC₈; however,
initial attempts to reproduce this result were elusive. Poitrenaud [4]
could find no evidence for superconductivity down to 300 mK. A flurry of
activity around 1980 [5, 6, 7] showed that the $T_{\rm c}$ of the KC₈
compound was much lower and could vary over a considerable temperature
range (128-198 mK) depending on synthesis conditions. [7]

The first synthesis of CaC₆ was performed by Weller _et al._[1] using Ca
vapor transport. These samples were not homogeneous and the resulting
superconducting transitions were broad. Emery _et al._[2] was able to
synthesize bulk samples (at least 60

Superconductivity in GICs has a long history and is still an area with
some uncertainty. A graphene layer, by itself, is a zero-band-gap
semiconductor with the fully occupied π band just touching the
unoccupied π^(*) band at one point in the Brillouin zone. The graphene
layers stack to form hexagonal graphite, and the interactions between
the layers lead to electron and hole pockets. Graphite is thus a
semimetal with an in-plane conductivity much larger than that along the
c axis. In all the donor GICs (alkali metals, alkaline earth metals,
rare earths, etc.) electrons are transferred from the donor atom to the
graphene antibonding π^(*) bands. [11] This leads to an increase in
conductivity of the graphene layers and a reduction in the anisotropy of
the conductivity. Likewise, the anisotropy of the superconducting
properties is smaller than a simple filling of the π^(*) band would
suggest.

Al-Jishi in 1983 formulated a two-band model for superconductivity in
order to explain the reduced anisotropy in the superconducting GICs.
[12, 13] Two types of bands were postulated to be important for
superconductivity, the two-dimensional (2D) π bands and the
three-dimensional (3D) intercalate band. This intercalate band, also
called the "alkali band", was formed from the s orbitals of the
intercalate ion and is partially occupied since charge transfer from the
alkali to the π^(*) band is incomplete. In this model, superconductivity
results from the coupling between electrons on the 2D π bands and the 3D
intercalate band, leading to a reduction in the anisotropy. The nature
of this 3D band has been the subject of some controversy. At about the
same time, Posternak _et al._[14] in their calculations on model 2D
systems, observed a previously unknown band in pure graphite. This 3D
"electron-like" interlayer band was formed from interlayer states in the
graphite and was located far above the Fermi level. The interaction of
this band with the intercalate orbitals was predicated to lead to the
alkali or intercalate band. Recently Csanyi _et al._[15] investigated
this interlayer band in detail and showed that its presence at the Fermi
level is a predictor of superconductivity.

However, the nature of the pairing mechanism in the GICs is still not
fully understood. In general, the coupling of the phonon modes of the
graphene layers to the π bands is weak with no coupling of the
out-of-plane lattice modes and only weak coupling of the in plane modes.
Assuming $T_{\rm c}$ is determined by C phonons, the low $T_{\rm c}$s of
these materials might be expected based on the small coupling to the
electrons. The appearance of the high $T_{\rm c}$ in CaC₆ was thus
surprising. Csanyi _et al._[15] suggests that an electronic mechanism
may be responsible for the high $T_{\rm c}$. Mazin, [16] on the other
hand, suggests most of the coupling is due to Ca phonons. He assumed
that the difference in $T_{\rm c}$ between CaC₆ and YbC₆ is due mainly
to the difference in mass of the intercalated ions. Based on this idea,
he predicts a Ca isotope effect coefficient (IEC) of about 0.4 where the
IEC (α) is defined as

$$\alpha=-d\ln T_{\rm c}/d\ln M\,.$$

Calandra and Mauri, [17] using density functional theory, calculated
that the Ca in-plane and C out-of-plane vibrations me diate the
superconductivity somewhat equally, with small contributions from other
vibrations. Their calculated Ca and C isotope effect coefficients are
0.24 and 0.26, respectively.

Thus, a measurement of the Ca isotope effect could help in determining
the contribution of the Ca phonon modes to superconductivity and as a
stringent test of any theoretical calculations. Normally for _sp_
materials the canonical value of α is 0.5, whereas d-electron systems
usually show a reduced isotope effect coefficient.[18] For a
multicomponent system the sum over the individual isotope effect
coefficients should have a maximum value of 0.5. The isotope effect
coefficient has not been measured for any GIC to date, probably due to
the low $T_{\rm c}$s of the materials and the difficulty in obtaining
reproducible superconducting transitions. CaC₆ is a material that shows
a narrow, reproducible $T_{\rm c}$ that is high enough to yield a large
$\Delta T_{\rm c}$ for isotopic substitution of either Ca or C. Assuming
a full Ca IEC, a $\Delta T_{\rm c}$ of about 0.5 K would be expected
between ⁴⁰Ca and ⁴⁴Ca. Therefore, this material is an ideal candidate
for the isotope effect coefficient measurement.

We have measured the Ca isotope effect coefficient using the
$\Delta T_{\rm c}$ between samples made from natural abundance
Ca(${}^{\rm o}$Ca) and isotopic ⁴⁴Ca and, in a second experiment,
between ⁴⁰Ca and the same ⁴⁴Ca isotope. We find a large isotope effect
coefficient for Ca (α ≡ 0.5), indicating that the entire coupling of
electrons in the superconducting state is by Ca phonons, assuming that
CaC₆ is a simple BCS superconductor.

## Experimental

Magnetization measurements were performed in a non-commercial SQUID
magnetometer.[19] The Earth’s magnetic field is reduced by a μ-metal
shield, yielding a remnant magnetic field of less than 10 mGauss.
Magnetic fields up to 50 Gauss can be applied to the sample with a Cu
solenoid. The intercalated HOPG samples were contained in a hermetically
sealed Ti sample holder to prevent reaction with the ambient atmosphere.
The magnetic field was applied perpendicular to the basal plane of the
sample during the measurement. Diffraction patterns were taken with a
PANalytical X’Pert PRO x-ray diffractometer using Co Kα radiation. The
HOPG sample was placed on a rotating stage using Bragg-Brentano geometry
to measure c-axis reflections.

We have tried both flux intercalation, using 75 at.

The vapor-phase synthesis was done by intercalating GE Advance Ceramics
grade ZYA HOPG with a mosaic spread of 0.4^(∘)± 0.1^(∘). Samples were
cut to a 2 × 2 mm² sample size with thicknesses of about 0.4 mm. All the
samples were taken from the same larger 12 × 12 × 2 mm³ HOPG plate,
ensuring the same chemical and physical properties. For each of the two
syntheses runs, two isotopic intercalations were fired simultaneously in
the furnace. For each of the isotopic intercalations about 60 mg of a Ca
isotope along with two or three HOPG samples were placed in a 40 mm long
by 9.5 mm diam stainless steel tube. The tube ends were tightly squeezed
shut, but not welded, therefore allowing for subsequent evacuation of
the tube. The loading of the stainless tubes was done in an N₂-filled
glove bag. The stainless tubes were transferred to a vacuum system and
pumped to 4 × 10⁻³ MPa. After 1 day the temperature was raised to 450
^(∘)C and the intercalation took place for either 4.2 (the 4-day
samples) or 12.1 days (the 12-day samples). Pumping, to remove outgasing
products, was continued through the entire intercalation process to keep
the pressure in the ampoules low and the mean-free path of the Ca vapor
large to ensure good Ca transport. For the 4-day reaction natural
abundance Ca (Rare Earth Products, 99.98

## Results

Figure 1 shows the diffraction pattern for both a 4-day and a 12-day
intercalated sample. The samples are clearly two phase, consisting of
rhombohedral CaC₆ and unintercalated, hexagonal graphite. While the
amount of CaC₆ is small, it is adequate to easily measure the
superconducting transition temperature by magnetization.

Figure 1: X-ray diffraction pattern of a 4-day (lower) and a 12-day
(upper) vapor-transport-synthesized sample showing both the HOPG and
CaC₆ (001) diffraction peaks. The pattern was taken using Co Kα
radiation.

Figure 2 shows the normalized superconducting transitions for the two
series of samples. The 4-day and the 12-day intercalated samples are
represented by solid and dashed lines, respectively. Superconducting
transitions are shown for at least two samples from each ampoule,
showing the good reproducibility of the intercalation within an ampoule.
The 4-day samples were measured after field cooling in a magnetic field
of 1 G (parallel to the c axis of the HOPG) to 4.2 K and then the
magnetization was recorded on warming in the 1 G field. The 12-day
samples were zero-field cooled and measured on warming in 0.1 G. The
reason for the different measurement protocol for the 4- and 12-day
samples will be discussed later. The 4- and 12-day transitions shown in
Fig. 2 cannot be directly compared, since each measurement protocol
monitors a different aspect of magnetic flux penetration in the sample.
The 4-day field-cooled transitions monitor the reentrance of the flux
that was expelled on cooling the sample (usually only a few percent of
the total flux). The 12-day zero-field-cooled samples measure the entire
flux entrance into the sample. The field-cooled transition may thus
appear sharper and (depending on the criteria for determining Tc) at a
slightly higher transition temperature than the zero-field-cooled
measurement. Figure 2 shows that the normalized magnetizations, the
actual magnitude of the Meissner magnetization (zero-field-cooled
measurement) at low temperatures range from 4 to 8 x 10-6 emu for the
various samples; however, the absolute magnitude has little meaning for
these multiphase samples.

The value of the IEC will depend strongly on the criterion for the
determination of _T_c for the samples. This is important for this
experiment, since the measured transitions for the 12-day samples are
broader, most likely due to the different measurement protocols
employed. The onset _T_c should be used to calculate a, since the
transition width depends more on the flux pinning properties of the
samples than any intrinsic variation in _T_c due, for example, to
variations in stoichiometry or purity. We have used two different
criteria for the onset _T_c: (1) the linear extrapolation to zero
magnetization of the slope at the inflection point and (2) the
temperature at 5

If one looks closely at the data in Fig. 2 and Table 1 it is apparent
that the onset temperatures for the 44Ca 4- and 12-day samples are
within the experimental error of 0.01 K. The reproducibility of the
measured _T_c between these two synthesis runs shows that the vapor
phase synthesis is very robust and that the measurement protocol has
very little impact on the measured _T_cS. In contrast to this, the
calculated _T_c (assuming a is 0.5) of the 12-day 40Ca should be 15 mK
higher than the 7Ca 4-day sample. However, the actual _T_c of the 40Ca
12-day sample is lower by about 50 mK. This most likely indicates an
impurity effect on _T_c, with the 7Ca having a much higher purity and
thus yielding a higher _T_c. Reference 20 lists the impurities reported
by the manufactures of the three Ca isotopes employed. The detection
limits for the various elements not analytically found (that are not
listed in Ref. 20) are also much larger for the Oak Ridge isotopes.
Thus, the enriched isotopes may have a larger impurity content that the
natural abundance material and this may be responsible for the enhanced
_T_c of the 7Ca sample. Based on this one might speculate that the
12-day intercalation is a more accurate measurement of a, since we are
comparing two similar Ca materials both having been enriched in the same
manner. That measurement gives a lower value of a closer to the
canonical value of 0.5. However, since the nature of any impurity
interactions are not known at present and there is no control over the
purity content of the Ca isotopes, we must use the data from both
intercalation runs. One must understand that the reported error in a
only measures the precision of the experiment and that the accuracy of

      Sample      _T_c (K) (onset)     _α_     _T_c (K) (at 5%)     _α_
  -------------- ------------------ --------- ------------------ ---------
   ^(a)Ca-4 day        11.62         0.55(2)        11.62         0.55(2)
    ⁴Ca-4 day          11.05                        11.05        
    ⁴Ca-12 day         11.57         0.50(2)        11.58         0.52(2)
    ⁴Ca-12 day         11.04                        11.03        

Table 1: The transition temperatures for the various isotopically
substituted CaCl6 samples and the calculated isotope effect coefficient,
_α_, for the various experiments. The error in the transition
temperature is ±0.01 K. The error in _α_ is determined only by the error
in temperature and ignores any other errors, such as impurity effects,
that may be present.

Figure 2: Normalized magnetization versus temperature for the isotopic
Ca-intercalated HOPG. The natural abundance Ca and the 44Ca 4-day
samples are shown as solid lines, and the 40Ca and 44Ca12-day
intercalated samples are shown as dashed lines. The data for the 4-day
samples were taken on warming in 1 G after field cooling in 1 G while
the 12-day samples were measured in 0.1 G after zero field cooling.

the experiment (in particular from impurity effects) could be less.

As pointed out previously, the samples are not fully intercalated even
after 12 days of heating. The 12-day intercalated samples show sharp
superconducting transitions when the zero-field-cooled magnetization is
measured as shown in Fig. 2. This is not the case with the 4-day
intercalated samples. Figure 3 compares the field-cooled (Meissner)
magnetization with the zero-field-cooled (shielding) magnetization for
one of the ⁴⁴Ca, 4-day samples. The magnetic field is 1 G and is
parallel to the c axis of the HOPG. The other 4-day intercalated samples
show similar behavior, although not as extreme, generally only showing a
much-broadened transition for the zero-field-cooled measurement. At
first glance it appears that there are two different transitions in this
sample but that only the one with a higher $T_{\rm c}$ displays a
Meissner effect. However, this is not the case; instead, the
zero-field-cooled magnetization resembles that of a superconducting ring
with a weak link.[21]

Ca likely intercalates into the HOPG along the basal planes at the outer
surfaces of the HOPG plates. The CaC₆ forms in a ring around the outer
surface of the HOPG coupled by weak links with reduced critical
currents. The two insets in Fig. 3 demonstrate the schematic current
flow in a ring with a single weak link. For the zero-field-cooled state
at low temperatures, the induced current is smaller than the critical
current of the weak link (inset A). Thus, the induced shielding current
at low temperatures flows along the outer perimeter of the sample,
yielding a magnetization signal proportional to the area of the entire
sample. As the temperature is increased, the critical current of the
grain boundary decreases monotonically. Eventually the critical current
will drop below the shielding current and the magnetic moment will
decrease with increasing temperature as the shielding current is shunted
to the inside of the annulus. When the grain boundary critical current
reaches zero, which happens at about 10.7 K for the sample in Fig. 3,
the current flow is schematically represented by inset B where the
current through the grain boundary is zero. The annular ring, however,
is still superconducting and will show a transition at $T_{\rm c}$ with
a signal proportional to the area of the superconducting ring. If more
than one grain boundary is present, only the weakest one will have an
effect on the zero-field-cooled magnetization.[21] Thus, the upper
transition measures the true superconducting transition of the CaC₆ and
the lower transition is an indirect measure of the weak-link critical
current.

This model naturally explains why in the field-cooled magnetization,
only the real transition is seen. During cooling of a ring in a field
through the superconducting transition, flux will be expelled to the
outside of the ring as well as into the bore. The current distribution
in the field-cooled state will be essentially the same as in inset B of
Fig. 3 (the currents flowing parallel to the grain boundary have no
effect in the magnetic moment). Note that this behavior is not present
in the 12-day intercalated samples, the field-cooled and
zero-field-cooled measurements giving the same transition temperature.
The longer intercalation period most likely allowed the Ca to
intercalate more uniformly and no weak links appear to have been formed.

The sample shown in Fig. 3 was kept for 14 weeks under N₂ to observe the
effect of long-term storage on the transition temperature. Figure 4
shows the zero-field-cooled magnetization measured in a 1-G field after
14 weeks storage compared to the original zero-field-cooled measurement.
The magnetization after 14 weeks only shows the upper part of the
transition; the weak link behavior is no longer present. At room
temperature the Ca must be slightly mobile. As made, the sample contains
domains of CaC₆, forming a ring around the sample coupled weakly by
either filamentary strands of CaC₆ regions of low $T_{\rm c}$, low-Ca
CaC₆. Over time the Ca defuses from these weak link regions to the CaC₆
domains, forming isolated regions of CaC₆. The magnetization then only
measures the shielding by the superconducting CaC₆ domains. Using this
model for the sample, the zero-field-cooled data can give an upper
estimate of the superconducting phase fraction. The ratio of the
field-cooled magnetization after 14 weeks (assuming all weak links are
normal and shielding current only flows around superconducting domains)
to the initial field-cooled magnetization (assuming

Figure 4: Zero-field-cooled magnetization measured on warming in a 1-G
field for the sample in Fig. 3 after intercalation and after storage for
14 weeks.

Figure 3: Field-cooled (in 1 G) and zero-field-cooled magnetization
measured in a 1-G field for one of the ⁴⁴Ca samples (solid triangles in
Fig. 1). Also shown are the field-cooled data scaled up by a factor of
10. Inset A shows the shielding current path when the weak link is fully
conducting and inset B shows the current path when the weak link becomes
insulating (see text).

shielding around the entire sample) will give the phase fraction of
superconducting CaC6. For the sample shown in Fig. 3, this ratio
(=30/120) will be about 1/4. This would be consistent with a 0.18-mm
angular ring around the 2-mm² HOPG samples. This, however, is not
consistent with the c axis, x-ray diffraction pattern shown in Fig. 1
that indicates a much lower CaC6 phase fraction, possibly by a factor of
10. These two measurements can be reconciled by assuming that the Ca
only intercalates into the HPOG, forming a thin ring around the top and
bottom surfaces, possibly due to the large strain introduced during
intercalation. Magnetization with the field along the c axis would
measure what would appear to be an annular ring over the entire sample
thickness, but diffraction would measure the true phase fraction of
CaC6.

## Discussion

Our results show that calcium clearly supplies a large phonon
contribution to the superconductivity in CaC6. Considering that this
material is an _sp_ system, a maximum value of 0.5 for the total a might
be expected. Our measured value for the Ca isotope effect is already at
the BCS limit of 0.5, indicating that the contribution to the total IEC
by C is zero. However, it may be somewhat unreasonable to expect the C
isotope effect coefficient to be negligible. It would be instructive to
measure the C isotope effect coefficient to see if the total isotope
effect is possibly greater than 0.5. If so, this would then be the
second example of a total isotope coefficient greater then 0.5,
underdoped high _T_C copper oxides being the first.[22] However, the
measurement of the carbon isotope effect coefficient is far from trivial
since it requires the synthesis of isotopic graphite, a difficult task.
Our result indicates that only calcium phonons mediate superconductivity
in CaC6 and that C phonons have, at most, a very small contribution.

Csanyi _et al.[15]_ pointed out that the 3D interlayer band hybridizes
strongly with the $\pi^{"}$ bands in the high-_T_c CaC6 and YbC6 but not
in the low-_T_c GICs. Thus, electron-phonon coupling of the interlayer
band with the metal ion and, through hybridization, with C phonons might
be responsible for the high _T_c. However, they were unsure if
electron-phonon coupling could describe the entire range of _T_c
observed in the GICs and suggested that the interlayer state might lead
to an excitonic pairing mechanism. Our large value for _a_(Ca) clearly
points to a phonon mechanism.

In general our results are consistent with the suggestion by Mazin[16]
that much of the electron-phonon coupling in CaC6 and YbC6 was due to
the metal-ion phonons. He deduced a large value of 0.4 for the Ca
isotope effect coefficient by assuming that the difference in _T_c
between these two materials is due mostly to the metal-ion mass
difference. Although after this suggestion it was found that the two
materials have a different stacking sequence, and thus a slightly
different electronic structure, his deduction appears correct. We find
an even larger value than Mazin for _a_(Ca).

Calandra and Mauri,[17] using density functional theory, calculated the
band structure of CaC6. They find that the carriers (electrons) are on
an intercalate band formed by partial charge transfer from the Ca to the
C (about 0.32 electrons/cell). This intercalate band primarily couples
to in-plane Ca phonon modes and out-of-plane C modes. The calculated
isotope effect coefficients [_a_(O) = 0.24 and _a_(O) = 0.26] are nearly
equal and quite different than what we find experimentally. Any coupling
of the interlayer or intercalate band to C directly or by hybridization
is probably nonexistent since we find only Ca phonons may mediate
superconductivity. In this model calculation coupling alone to Ca
phonons would not give the high _T_c.

Tunneling,[23] specific heat,[24] penetration depth,[25] and resistivity
measurements[26] have all led to the conclusion that CaC6 is a weak to
moderately strongly coupled superconductor with a maximum
electron-phonon coupling constant of about 0.85. However, the
observation of a linear dependence of Hc2 with temperature[24, 26] could
be the result of strong electron-phonon coupling. Mazin _et al.[27]_
have pointed out that the measurement of _a_(Ca) = 0.5 implies strong
coupling, in disagreement with several of the experiments listed above.
This is because the energy of the various Ca phonons is low and to
obtain the observed _T_c of CaC6 would require strong coupling. More
work will be necessary to unambiguously determine the coupling strength
in this material.

It is instructive to compare two seemingly similar materials, MgB2 and
CaC6. Structurally these materials are similar, containing 2D hexagonal
nets of B or C separated by an alkaline earth ion. In MgB2 charge
transfer from the Mg to the B network is complete. The interlayer band
lies above the Fermi level and is unimportant in this material. It is
charge transfer from the B s bands to the B p bands that creates holes
in the s bands which host the strongest superconducting interaction.
These carriers couple strongly to the high-energy, in-plane B
vibrations, leading to high-_T_C superconductivity. In this material, B
shows a large isotope effect (0.30), whereas Mg shows an isotope effect
of only 0.02.[28] In CaC6 charge transfer is not complete, leading to an
interlayer (or intercalate) band at the Fermi level. This band couples
with the Ca phonons and, according to our result, this interaction is
solely responsible for the high _T_c. At present the nature of this
interlayer (or intercalate) band is somewhat uncertain and the
interaction of this band with the Ca phonons to give the observed _T_c
is still not understood.

This example of the intercalated cations, rather than the 2D graphite
layers, being responsible for superconductivity suggests an additional
strategy for searching for new superconducting materials. Perhaps one
should look for systems where a 2D template can be used to "suspend" or
arrange light atoms in such a way that phonon amplitudes are unusually
large, owing to longer that normal distances between the cations and
giving rise to strong electron-phonon coupling.

## Acknowledgments

This work was supported by the U.S. Department of Energy, Basic Energy
Sciences-Materials Sciences, and the Office of Energy Efficiency and
Renewable Energy under Contract DE-AC02-06CH11357. We wish to thank Ken
Gray for useful discussions about the interpretation of these results.

* [17] T. E. Weller, M. Ellerby, S. S. Saxena, R. P. Smith, and N. T.
Skipper, Nat. Phys. **1**, 39 (2005). * [18] N. Emery, C. Herold, M.
d’Astuto, V. Garcia, C. Bellin, J. F. Marche, P. Lagrange, and G.
Loupias, Phys. Rev. Lett. **95**, 087003 (2005). * [19] N. B. Hannay, T.
H. Geballe, B. T. Matthias, K. Andres, P. Schmidt, and D. MacNair, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **14**, 225 (1965). * [20] J. Poitrenaud, Rev. Phys. Appl.
**5**, 275 (1970). * [21] Y. Koike, H. Suematsu, K. Higuchi, and S.
Tanuma, Solid State Commun. **27**, 623 (1978). * [22] M. Kobayashi and
I. Tsujikawa, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **46**, 1945 (1979). * [23] Y. Koike,
S.-I. Tanuma, H. Suematsu, and K. Higuchi, J. Phys. Chem. Solids **41**,
1111 (1980). * [24] N. Emery, C. Herold, and P. Lagrange, J. Solid State
Chem. **178**, 2947 (2005). * [25] S. Pruvost, P. Berger, C. Herold, and
P. Lagrange, Carbon **42**, 2049 (2004). * [26] N. Emery, C. Herold,
J.-F. Marche, C. Bellouard, G. Loupias, and P. Lagrange, J. Solid State
Chem. **179**, 1289 (2006). * [27] T. Enoki, M. Suzuki, and M. Endo,
_Graphite Intercalation Compounds and Applications_ (Oxford University
Press, Inc., New York, 2003). * [28] R. Al-Jishi, Phys. Rev. B **28**,
112 (1983). * [29] R. A. Jishi and M. S. Dresselhaus, Phys. Rev. B
**45**, 12465 (1992). * [30] M. Posternak, A. Baldereschi, A. J.
Freeman, E. Wimmer, and M. Weinert, Phys. Rev. Lett. **50**, 761
(1983). * [31] G. Csanyi, P. B. Littlewood, A. H. Nevidomskyy, C. J.
Pickard, and B. D. Simons, Nat. Phys. **1**, 42 (2005). * [32] I. I.
Mazin, Phys. Rev. Lett. **95**, 227001 (2005). * [33] M. Calandra and F.
Mauri, Phys. Rev. Lett. **95**, 237002 (2005). * [34] J. W. Garland,
Jr., Phys. Rev. Lett. **11**, 114 (1963). * [35] K. Vandervoort, G.
Griffith, H. Claus, and G. W. Crabtree, Rev. Sci. Instrum. **62**, 2271
(1991). * [36] The three Ca isotopes do differ in impurity content. The
reported impurities in the ⁴⁴Ca in ppm are: Ba-100, Cd-2500, Mg-100,
Na-100, Zn-800, and in the ⁴⁰Ca: Mg-100, Si-100, and Sr-200. Major
impurities in the ¹Ca in ppm are: Ba-30, Mg-10, Mn and Sr-5, and Fe, Na,
K, Ni, and Si-2. EDS measurements show no impurities in the intercalated
samples, although the sensitivity of this technique is not very high. *
[37] H. Claus, U. Welp, H. Zheng, L. Chen, A. P. Paulikas, B. W. Veal,
K. E. Gray, and G. W. Crabtree, Phys. Rev. B **64**, 144507 (2001). *
[38] H. Keller, Struct. Bonding (Berlin) **114**, 143 (2005). * [39] N.
Bergeal, V. Dubost, Y. Noat, W. Sacks, D. Roditchev, N. Emery, C.
Herold, J-F. Marche, P. Lagrange, and G. Loupias, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**97**, 077003 (2006). * [40] J. S. Kim, R. K. Kremer, L. Boeri, and F.
S. Razavi, Phys. Rev. Lett. **96**, 217002 (2006). * [41] G. Lamura, M.
Aurino, G. Cifariello, E. DiGennaro, A. Andreone, N. Emery, C. Herold,
J.-F. Mareche, and P. Lagrange, Phys. Rev. Lett. **96**, 107008
(2006). * [42] E. Jobiliog, H. D. Zhou, J. A. Janik, Y.-J. Jo, L.
Balicas, J. S. Brooks, and C. R. Wiebe, cond-mat/0604062
(unpublished). * [43] I. I. Mazin, L. Boeri, O. V. Dolgov, A. A.
Golubov, G. B. Bachelet, M. Giantomassi, and O. K. Anderson,
cond-mat/0606404 (unpublished). * [44] D. G. Hinks, H. Claus, and J. D.
Jorgensen, Nature (London) **411**, 457 (2001).
