Electronic and magnetic properties of Cm in Pb₂Sr₂Cm_(1 − x)Ca_(x)Cu₃O₈
(x = 0.0 and 0.5)

S. Skanthakumar, C. W. Williams, and L. Soderholm

Chemistry Division, Argonne National Laboratory, Argonne, Illinois 60439

Received 10 May 2001; published 24 September 2001

###### Abstract

A combination of x-ray diffraction, x-ray absorption spectroscopy, and
magnetic susceptibility measurements have been used to study the
physical properties of Pb₂Sr₂Cm_(1 − x)Ca_(x)Cu₃O₈ (x = 0.0.5). These Cm
compounds are isostructural with the superconducting members of the
Pb₂Sr₂R_(1 − x)Ca_(x)Cu₃O₈ (R denotes rare earth) series. X-ray
absorption and magnetic susceptibility data clearly indicate that the Cm
is trivalent in this compound, consistent with the superconducting
members of this series. However, Pb₂Sr₂Cm_(0.5)Ca_(0.5)Cu₃O₈ is not
superconducting. Furthermore, the Cm spins are found to magnetically
order in the parent compound Pb₂Sr₂CmCu₃O₈ with an ordering temperature
of 18 K. Suppression of superconductivity is observed together with
high-magnetic ordering temperatures in other high-T_(c) related
compounds synthesized with Cm. The results determined here are put into
context with these previous observations.

pacs: 0163-1829/2001/64(14)/144521 + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL
REVIEW B, VOLUME 64, 144521

## I Introduction

The rare-earth (R) substitution effects on the high-T_(c) series
RBa₂Cu₃O₇, R_(2 − x)Ce_(x)CuO₄, and Pb₂Sr₂R_(1 − x)Ca_(x)Cu₃O₈ have been
studied in great detail using a wide variety of experimental
techniques.[1] The superconducting behavior exhibited by these three
different series of substituted Cu oxides are generally not affected by
the nature of R, although the R may carry magnetic moments as high as
10μ_(B). Magnetic quenching of superconductivity does not occur in these
materials because the superconducting electrons reside in the planar CuO
bands and the CuO and R sublattices are effectively electronically
decoupled. This isolation is consistent with the known electronic
behavior of the 4f electrons, which are generally well localized, and
are well modeled by simple, single-ion approaches. Despite this general
trend, there are several f ions that, when substituted into one or more
of the series listed above, do have a pronounced effect on
superconductivity. These ions, which include Ce, Pr, Tb, Am (Z = 95) and
Cm (Z = 96), can be divided into two classes. The R ion in the Ce and Am
analogs, if formed, are tetravalent,[2, 3] whereas all the other R are
trivalent. It has been demonstrated that the introduction of a
tetravalent R suppresses superconductivity. The extra charge introduced
by the Ce⁴⁺ or Am⁴⁺ is transferred to the CuO₂ planes, reducing the
charge carriers. The situation is different with the R for Pr and Cm
analogs of these materials. Both these ions appear to be trivalent and
yet Cm, and sometimes Pr, suppress superconductivity through a mechanism
that is not yet completely understood.[4] However, it is clear that when
T_(c) is suppressed the R moments order at anomalously high
temperatures.

The parent compounds Pb₂Sr₂R_(1 − x)Ca_(x)Cu₃O₈, for which x = 0, form
an isostructural series over a wide range of R, including Y, La-Lu
(Refs. [5] and [6]) and the actinide Am.[3] The parent compounds
themselves are not superconducting, although superconductivity can be
induced by oxidizing some Ca²⁺, either by making the sample
substoichiometric in R³⁺, or by replacing some R³⁺ with Ca²⁺.[7]
Generally superconductivity is observed for 0.2<x< 0.8 in
Pb₂Sr₂R_(1 − x)Ca_(x)Cu₃O₈, with the optimum Ca concentration of 0.5 for
highest T_(c). The superconducting critical temperatures T_(c) are about
70 K for most of the series, although T_(c) is 61 K for the Pr analog,
about 10 K lower than the rest of the series. Magnetic and inelastic
neutron scattering studies have shown Pr to be essentially trivalent in
Pb₂Sr₂PrCu₃O₈.[8] It should be noted that the Pr moments order at 6
K,[9, 10] which is significantly higher than the other R substitutes,
despite the relatively small local moment on Pr. In contrast to the
other members of the series, neither the Ce nor the Am analog has been
found to be superconducting. Detailed studies of these analogs have
shown that, although the compounds are isostructural with other members
of this series, both Ce and Am are tetravalent.[2, 3] In the work
presented here, we have synthesized the R for Cm member of the
Pb₂Sr₂R_(1 − x)Ca_(x)Cu₃O₈ series for x = 0 and 0.5, and have
characterized their structural and magnetic properties. X-ray absorption
near-edge structure (XANES) experiments were conducted near the Cm L₃,
L₂, and L₁ edges in order to ascertain the oxidation state of Cm. XANES
has been used extensively to determine the ion-specific valence states
in complex compounds.[11] The atomic structure was determined by
combining x-ray powder diffraction and extended x-ray-absorption fine
structure (EXAFS) data. Cm has been chosen for this study because it has
a tetravalent/trivalent reduction potential similar to Pr and Tb but its
5f orbitals have a slightly larger radial extent than the 4f orbitals of
Pr. In addition, Cm³⁺ has a S_(7/2) Russell-Saunders ground state that,
to first order, is not influenced by the symmetry of the crystal field
potential in which it is situated. These unique attributes form a
contrast to the properties of the other members of the series and are
expected to add insight into the suppression of superconductivity and
the concomitant high magnetic ordering temperatures seen for Pr and Cm
in other high-T_(c) related materials. Indeed,
Pb₂Sr₂Cm_(1 − x)Ca_(x)Cu₃O₈ is not superconducting and the parent, x =
0, compound exhibits evidence of magnetic ordering of the Cm moments at
about 18 K.

## II Experimental details

Powder samples of Pb₂Sr₂Cm_(1 − x)Ca_(x)Cu₃O₈ (x = 0.0,0.5) were
prepared by solid-state reaction techniques. Since ²⁴⁸Cm is a man-made
radioactive isotope with limited availability, sample sizes were
restricted to less than 10 mg. Details of the synthetic procedure were
determined from surrogate work on the Pr analog because of the
similarities of Pr and Cm solid-state chemistry. Stoichiometric ratios
of PbO, CuO, CaCO3, SrCO3 and Cm as the oxalate, were mixed, pelletized,
and prefired at 750 degC for two days in N2 containing 2

The magnetization experiments were conducted using a superconducting
quantum interference device (SQUID) magnetometer over the temperature
range of 5-320 K. Sample masses for x = 0.0 and 0.5 were 3.23 and 6.98
mg, respectively. Magnetizations versus applied field were measured at 5
K to check the assumed linearity. A magnetic field of 500 G was used for
susceptibility measurements whereas low magnetic fields (<20 G) were
employed to detect superconductivity. Samples were doubly encapsulated
in Al containers for these measurements to prevent radioactive
contamination, and containers were run separately in order to correct
the magnetization data for background. X-ray absorption experiments were
conducted on powder samples at room temperature on the BESSRC bending
magnet beam lines 12-BM-B at the Advanced Photon Source (APS) at the
Argonne National Laboratory. Cm-_L_1, L2, and L3 edge data were
collected employing a Si(111) double-crystal monochromator that gives an
energy resolution of ΔE/E = 14.1 x 10-5. The high critical energy of the
APS ring required the use of a Pt mirror to remove the higher-order
harmonics. Nb foil was used to calibrate the energy at 18 986 eV. CmO2
and Cm2CuO4 are used as the tetravalent and trivalent Cm standards,
respectively, and the other details of the x-ray absorption setup are
described elsewhere.[13] Data were collected in the transmission and
fluorescence modes simultaneously. Ln(_I_a/_I_t_) and I1/_I_0 were used
for normalization of transmitted and fluorescence intensities,
respectively. Data analysis methodology is described elsewhere.[14]
winxas data analysis software[15] was used to fit the EXAFS data.
FEFF7.023 (Ref. [16]) was used to obtain the phase and amplitude
functions required for EXAFS refinement.

## III Results

### Xanes

The Cm L3 edge XANES spectra obtained from Pb2Sr2Cm1-_x_CaCu3O8, along
with those of the trivalent (Cm2CuO4) and tetravalent (CmO2) standards,
are shown in Fig. 1.[13] The first derivative of the normalized
intensities, used to determine the edge positions, are shown in the
inset. The fingerprint of Cm3+ spectrum is the absorption energy (first
peak of the derivative) at about 18 973 with the maximum absorption at
18 979 eV, whereas the absorption energy peak of Cm4+ is at 18 977 eV
with maximum absorption at 18 984 eV. The observed 4 eV shifts between
trivalent and tetravalent Cm absorption edges is consistent with the
magnitude in differences observed between other trivalent and
tetravalent actinides.[3, 17, 18, 19] XANES data for both the x = 0.0
and 0.5 compounds of Pb2Sr2Cm1-_x_CaCu3O8 are indistinguishable from
those of the trivalent Cm standard. Our measurements of L2 and L1 edges
also showed similar shifts in energy between trivalent and tetravalent
Cm. L2 and L1 edges are observed to be at 23 262 and 24 547 eV for
trivalent Cm2CuO4 and Pb2Sr2Cm1-_x_CaCu3O8, whereas they are at 23 266
and 24 551 eV for the tetravalent CmO2. These observations show that Cm
is essentially trivalent in

Figure 1: The Cm L3-edge XANES spectra for Pb2Sr2Cm1−_x_CaCu3O8, (_x_ =
0.0,0.5) with spectra of trivalent (Cm2CuO4) and tetravalent (CmO2)
standards. The fluorescence data are shown for Pb2Sr2Cm1−_x_CaCu3O8,
while transmission data are shown for the standards. The inset shows the
first derivative of the intensities. The similarity between the spectra
obtained from Cm trivalent standard and Pb2Sr2Cm1−_x_CaCu3O8 indicates
that Cm is trivalent in Pb2Sr2Cm1−_x_CaCu3O8.

Pb₂Sr₂Cm_(1 − x)CaCu₃O₈ for both the x = 0 and the Ca-doped sample. Ca
doping does not measurably affect the Cm valence.

### Crystal structure

In addition to the XANES, Cm-L₃ edge EXAFS data were also obtained.
These data, in combination with x-ray powder diffraction data, have been
used to determine that Pb₂Sr₂Cm_(1 − x)Ca_(x)Cu₃O₈ (_x_ = 0,0.5) are
isostructural with the superconducting lanthanide analogs
Pb₂Sr₂R_(1 − x)Ca_(x)Cu₃O₈. An x-ray Reitveld refinement, constrained to
be consistent with the EXAFS results, was used to determine the lattice
constants, space group, and overall structure. The EXAFS data were used
to obtain the Cm-O and Cm-Cu distances, which are difficult to obtain
from the x-ray diffraction data because of the very weak scattering from
O and Cu atoms compared to the heavier atoms, such as Cm and Pb. Several
iterations between fitting the EXAFS data and Reitveld refinements of
the x-ray diffraction data were required before a consistent fit was
obtained for all the data.

X-ray diffraction data, which were collected over the range of
5deg-150deg at room temperature, show the Pb₂Sr₂Cm_(1 − x)Ca_(x)Cu₃O₈
samples to be of high quality. All observed peaks can be indexed using
the same orthorhombic space group _Cmmm_ that was found for the other
members of this series.[2] The absence of extra peaks in the diffraction
pattern confirms the sample quality. Refined values for the lattice
parameters determined from fitting these peak positions are given in
Table 1. The lattice parameters a and b are contracted whereas the c
axis is elongated for the Ca-doped sample. Similar behavior was observed
for other R analogs of Pb₂Sr₂R_(1 − x)Ca_(x)Cu₃O₈.[20] A comparison
between unit-cell edges a,_b_ and volume V for the Cm analog with the
other Pb₂Sr₂RCu₃O₈ compounds reveals good agreement of our data with the
trend established for the trivalent R. The variation of the unit cell a
axis as a function of trivalent ionic radii is shown in Fig. 2. The
ionic radius of tetravalent Cm (0.95 A) is significantly smaller than
that of trivalent Cm (1.10 A),[3, 21] therefore the valence state of Cm
is expected to influence significantly the lattice parameters. The
lattice parameters a (Fig. 2) and b and unit-cell volume for various R
in Pb₂Sr₂RCu₃O₈ increases smoothly with increasing trivalent ionic radii
with the exception of R for Ce and Am. Ce and Am have been previously
demonstrated to be tetravalent ions,[23], which have smaller ionic radii
than that of their trivalent counterparts, therefore accounting for
their deviation from the trend established by the trivalent ions. The
lattice constants and volume for Pb₂Sr₂CmCu₃O₈ fall on the trend
established by the trivalent ions, confirming our XANES results that
showed Cm to be trivalent in this material.

Several space groups including tetragonal (_P_4/_mmm_),[22] orthorhombic
(_Cmmm_, _Pmmm_, _Pmmm_),[23, 24, 25, 26] and monoclinic
(_C_2/_m_,P2_1/_m_,P2_1) (Refs. [27, 28]) have been reported for the
Pb₂Sr₂RCu₃O₈ series. Although our data are consistent with, and are
refined in, the space group _Cmmm_, a close inspection indicates that
the (1, 1, 4) and (2, 0, 5) peaks are much broader than (0, 0, 2), (0,
2, 0), and (0, 2, 5) peaks. Similar behavior has been previously
observed for other Pb₂Sr₂R_(1 − x)Ca_(x)Cu₃O₈, where it has been
attributed to a slight monoclinic distortion with a distribution of the
β angle.[29, 30, 31]

The x-ray diffraction data between 20deg and 150deg, together with the
Cm L₃ EXAFS data, were used in the structural refinement. The
diffraction data, over a selected energy range (Fig. 3), and the EXAFS
data, together with their Fourier transform (Fig. 4), are shown for
Pb₂Sr₂Cm_(0.5)Ca_(0.5)Cu₃O₈. The similarity between data from
Pb₂Sr₂Cm_(1 − x)Ca_(x)Cu₃O₈ and those of the 4f compounds is
demonstrated by the EXAFS data from Pb₂Sr₂R_(1 − x)Ca_(x)Cu₃O₈[32, 33]
that is also included in the EXAFS (Fig. 4) for R denoting Pr. Metrical
results from the diffraction and EXAFS refinements are shown in Tables 1
and 2, respectively.

Figure 2: Lattice parameter a of Pb₂Sr₂RCu₃O₈ as a function of trivalent
(_R_³⁺) ionic radius for various R. a for other R, and trivalent ionic
radii were obtained elsewhere.[2, 3, 32, 31] Line is drawn to show the
trivalent trend. Cm is trivalent that whereas Am and Ce are tetravalent.

The refinement was done in space group _Cmmm_ (No. 65). The Cm/Ca and
Cu1 positions are determined by symmetry. The z parameters for Pb and Sr
were determined by Rietveld refinement of the diffraction data. The Cu2
position was determined both from the diffraction data and also from
fitting the EXAFS Cm-Cu distance. The O2 position was determined
directly from the EXAFS Cm-O fitting and held fixed in the diffraction
refinement. The O1 and O3 positional parameters were estimated from
previous structural work on the R analogs of this structure [2, 32], and
were held fixed for the refinement. Their contribution is very small to
the total x-ray scattering, which is dominated by the heavy atoms.

All coordination numbers for EXAFS fits were fixed using space group
requirements. Introducing three or more fixed shells into the EXAFS fit
to account for Cm-Sr, Cm-Cm, and Cm-O interactions with parameters
determined either from the structural refinement or, in the case of
Cm-O, from previous work on the Pr analog [2, 32], improves the fit.
However, these new parameters that are introduced into the EXAFS model
cannot be refined because there are insufficient data to support more
than two shells fit. The refined Cm-O and Cm-Cu distances were 2.426(24)
and 3.241(30)

                        x = 0.0     x = 0.5
  ------- ----------- ----------- -----------
   Cm-O    Cm-O (Å)    2.426(24)   2.436(24)
            σ² (Å²)    0.022(3)    0.013(2)
            E0 (eV)      −1.41       −0.69
   Cm-Cu   Cm-Cu (Å)   3.241(30)   3.233(30)
            σ² (Å²)    0.010(2)    0.007(2)
            E0 (eV)      −1.41       −0.69

Table 2: The parameters obtained by refining the room temperature Cm L3
EXAFS data of Pb5Sr2Cm1...CaCaCuO8 (_x_ = 0.0 and 0.5). Coordination
numbers were fixed at 8 for both O and Cu based on the space group.

Figure 4: (a) The Cm-_L_3 edge fluorescence k3_x_(_k_) EXAFS data (solid
line) from Pb5Sr2Cm0.5Ca0.5CuO8. The best fits using two Cm-O and Cm-Cu
distances are shown as dashed lines. (b) Fourier transforms of the
experimental (solid lines) and fitted (dashed lines) EXAFS data before
phase shift correction. The Pr-L_3 edge EXAFS data and their Fourier
transform for Pb5Sr2Pr0.5Ca0.5CuO8 are shown in (c) and (d),
respectively.

Figure 3: X-ray diffraction pattern and refinement for
Pb5Sr2Cm0.5Ca0.5CuO8 at room temperature. These data were collected with
Cu _K_α x-rays. The crosses are the observed data and the solid line is
the refinement. The difference between the observed data and the refined
structure is shown at the bottom. Vertical lines in the middle indicate
the positions of symmetry allowed charge Bragg peaks originating from
_K_α1 and _K_α2 x-rays.

A, respectively, for the undoped sample (_x_ = 0.0) whereas they refined
to 2.436(24) and 3.233(30) A for the x = 0.5 sample. It should be noted
that the Cm-O-fitted Debye-Waller parameter for the parent compound is
larger than expected relative to its doped counterpart. This result,
reproducible and verified over different synchrotron runs, is unexpected
and inconsistent with the higher degree of disorder normally associated
with a doped material. It should be further noted that this result does
not impact our Cm-O bond distance because it is the coordination number
that is correlated with the Debye-Waller parameter. Our coordination
numbers are fixed by space group considerations and not refined from the
EXAFS data. The fits to the diffraction and EXAFS experimental data for
x = 0.5 compound are compared with the appropriate data in Figs. 3 and
4.

The Cm-O distances we obtained from the EXAFS are significantly larger
than those of AmO and Ce-O in the same system.3 This observation in
consistent with Cm3+, Am4+, and Ce4+, the latter two of which have
smaller ionic radii than their trivalent counterparts. The effect of Ca
doping on the Cm-O distance is also similar to that observed in other
trivalent 4f compounds. When R is trivalent, _R_-O distances increase
with Ca doping whereas they decrease in the tetravalent Ce
analog.25,33,34 Both x-ray diffraction and absorption experiments
clearly indicate that Pb2Sr2Cm1-_x_CaCu3O8 is isostructural to all other
Pb2Sr2R1-_x_CaCu3O8 compounds and Cm is trivalent in this system.

### Magnetic susceptibility

Magnetic susceptibility data, obtained from a powder sample of
Pb2Sr2CmCu3O8 and measured as a function of temperature, are shown in
Fig. 5. The inverse susceptibility, shown in the inset, increases
linearly with temperature above 30 K. These data were least squares
fitted to the Curie-Weiss law x = _C_/_(_T_ + _Theta_), where C and
_Theta_ are Curie and Weiss constants. The refined parameters are C =
9.40 K and _Theta_ = 96.8 K for the data between 120 and 320 K. The
effective moment of 8.7(2) m_(B), obtained from the measured C using
_m_eff(8C)1/2, is significantly larger than the 7.94_m__B_ expected for
a Cm3+ free-ion moment. Cm3+ has a spherically symmetric, 8S7/2 ground
state and therefore the crystal field will not influence the magnetic
susceptibility to first order.13 For comparison, tetravalent Cm has a
⁷F₀, J = 0 Russell-Saunders ground state, and hence a free-ion moment of
0_m__B_. Therefore, the high value of the effective moment observed here
for Pb2Sr2CmCu3O8 can be accounted for neither by crystal-field effects
nor by the presence of some tetravalent Cm. Instead, the large observed
moment is evidence of a local paramagnetic moment on Cu. When the
inverse magnetic susceptibility data fitted between 30 and 90 K, which
is below the slight anomaly observed at about 100 K, an effective
magnetic moment of 7.8(2) m_(B) is obtained in agreement with that
expected for a Cm3+ free-ion moment. This result may indicate that Cu
moment ordering occurs below 100 K. Precedent for a Cu local moment
comes from previous work on CmBa2Cu3O7, which has a measured magnetic
moment of 8.9(2) m_(B),35 and PrBa2Cu3O7,36 in which the Cu moments
order slightly above room temperature. In contrast to the observations
from Pb2Sr2CmCu3O8 and CmBa2Cu3O7, the measured susceptibility of
Cm2CuO4 is 7.89(5) m_(B), which is consistent with local moments only on
Cm3+.13

An expanded view of low-temperature magnetic susceptibility data, shown
in Fig. 5(b), reveals a cusp in the data centered at about 18 K. Similar
cusps, attributed to the antiferromagnetic ordering of Cm moments, have
been observed in Cm2CuO4 and CmBa2Cu3O7 at 25 and 22 K,
respectively.35,37 Magnetic neutron diffraction experiments13
unambiguously confirmed the origin of the transition at 25 K in Cm2CuO4
as the antiferromagnetic ordering of Cm spins. Although the small sample
sizes used here prevented us from obtaining the magnetic ordering
details from neutron diffraction, we conclude that the Cm spins
antiferromagnetically order in Pb2Sr2CmCu3O8 at 18 K. This conclusion is
based on the similarities in the temperature dependence of the magnetic
susceptibility in these two compounds. The temperature dependence of the
magnetic susceptibility in Pb2Sr2Cm0.5Ca0.5Cu3O8 did not show a cusp,
therefore there is no indication for magnetic ordering of Cm ions in x =
0.5 above 5 K. This result is consistent with the dilution of the
magnetic ions by Ca in this compound.38 Although the ordering is
suppressed in the Ca compound, the strong mag

Figure 5: (a) The temperature dependence of the magnetic susceptibility
of Pb2Sr2CmCu3O8 and the inverse susceptibility is shown in the inset.
(b) Magnetic susceptibility at low temperatures. The cusp at 18 K
indicates the antiferromagnetic ordering of Cm ions in this compound.

netic interactions and hybridization with Cu-O planes that resulted in
the magnetic ordering of the Cm moments in the parent phase will still
be present in the Ca-doped samples.

Low-field magnetization data obtained from Pb₂Sr₂Cm_(0.5)Ca_(0.5)Cu₃O₈
showed no indication of a superconducting transition, although the
sample was prepared under conditions that, for lanthanide-doped
Pb₂Sr₂R_(0.5)Ca_(0.5)Cu₃O₈, result in bulk superconductivity. Whereas a
slight variation in the Ca concentration (_x_) from 50

## IV Discussion

Single-phase samples of Pb₂Sr₂CmCu₃O₈ and Pb₂Sr₂Cm_(1 − x)Ca_(x)Cu₃O₈
have been prepared following synthetic procedures as optimized for
Pb₂Sr₂Pr_(1 − x)Ca_(x)Cu₃O₈[39]. A combination of x-ray powder
diffraction and Cm L3-edge EXAFS data have been used to probe the atomic
structures of these materials. The Cm analog of Pb₂Sr₂RCu₃O₈ is
isostructural with the other R members of this series. The diffraction
lines are indexed, and the positional parameters are refined in the Cmmm
space group. As previously observed for the R denoting Y, Pr, and Tb
analogs, the (1, 1, 4) and (2, 0, 5) peaks in the R for Cm sample are
also much broader than (0, 0, 2), (0, 2, 0) and (0, 2, 5) peaks, [29,
30, 31] indicating the slight monoclinic distortion found for the
lanthanide compounds is also present in the Cm sample.

The structural data, including the trends established in unit-cell
lengths, cell volumes, and _R_-O bond distances, are all consistent with
trivalent Cm in these samples. This result is confirmed by XANES
spectroscopy and magnetic susceptibility data, which clearly show the
presence of only Cm³⁺ in both the parent compound and the Ca-doped
sample. This result is consistent with the overall redox chemistry of
the rare earths and actinides in the known Cu-O superconductors. [2, 4,
8, 13, 39] Am and Ce are the most easily oxidized, from trivalent to
tetravalent, of the f ions found in these systems. [3] Pr, Tb, and Cm
can form selected tetravalent oxides, but have been found to be
trivalent when associated with a Cu-O framework. Recently, it has been
predicted that Am will be trivalent in Am₂CuO₄ and that
superconductivity will be induced by Ce⁴⁺ doping for Am³⁺. [40] This
prediction is in contrast to the trend established to date by the
redox-active f ions in these oxide systems.

Although Pb₂Sr₂Cm_(1 − x)Ca_(x)Cu₃O₈ is isostructural with all the
superconducting Pb₂Sr₂R_(1 − x)Ca_(x)Cu₃O₈ compounds, and Cm is
trivalent, there is no indication for superconductivity at temperatures
down to 5 K. Whereas the Ce and Am analogs are also not superconducting,
the f ions in both these cases are tetravalent. Both
Pb₂Sr₂Pr_(0.5)Ca_(0.5)Cu₃O₈ and Pb₂Sr₂Tb_(0.5)Ca_(0.5)Cu₃O₈ are
superconducting, although the Pr analog of the R Ba₂Cu₃O₇ series is not,
and the Tb analog does not form as a single-phase sample.

It was observed in an early work on [La_(1 − x)(Ba, Sr,
Ca)_(x)]₂CuO_(2 − δ) that there is a strong correlation between
superconductivity and the Cu-O bond lengths in the superconducting
planes. [41] Considerably shorter Cu-O bonds were observed for
superconducting samples, uncorrelated with the effective _f_-ion ionic
radius. This effect was clearly demonstrated by the dependence of the
superconducting transition temperature (_T_(c)_) on the lattice
parameter a, which is an indirect measure of the planar O-Cu-O
bondlength. The highest _T_(c)_ was observed for the shortest a, and
_T_(c)_ was found to decrease with increasing a. As with other series,
the Cu-O bond length is not exactly proportional to a in
Pb₂Sr₂R_(1 − x)Ca_(x)Cu₃O₈, however, it can be assumed for comparison
purposes that lattice parameters a and b are proportional to the lengths
of O-Cu-O bond. In Pb₂Sr₂Cm_(1 − x)Ca_(x)Cu₃O₈, the lattice parameters a
and b shrink with increasing Ca concentrations, similar to the observed
behavior in the other R analogs. [2, 20] The relative change in Cm is
similar to other R except Pr, where relatively larger contractions in a
and b are observed with Ca doping. The a and b axes in 50

The antiferromagnetic ordering temperatures (_T_(N)_) of Cm in three
different high-_T_(c)_ related compounds along with some of their
rare-earth analogs are given in Table 3. The Cm magnetic ordering
temperature of 18 K in Pb₂Sr₂CmCu₃O₈ is the largest in the series. In
Pb₂Sr₂GdCu₃O₈, the Gd spins order antiferromagnetically at 2.3 K. [42]
Although Gd and Cm both have an _f⁷_ configuration, and both have a
spherically symmetric ground state with a large magnetic moment, there
is a significant difference in their ordering temperatures. In the
R2CuO₄ series, similarities are observed in the magnetic properties of
Gd and Cm, which have ordering temperatures of 6.4 and 25 K,
respectively. [13, 43] Both have the same magnetic structure and
three-dimensional (3D) behavior, and the nearest-neighbor distances are
almost equal in all three directions. Since the maximum temperature
expected for dipole-type magnetic in

   R     _R_Ba₂Cu₃O₇      R2CuO₄      Pb₂Sr₂RCu₃O₈
  ---- --------------- ------------- --------------
   Pr       17.0        No ordering       6.0
   Nd        1.5            1.6           1.7
   Sm        0.6           5.95           1.1
   Gd        2.2            6.4           2.3
   Tb   Does not form        9            5.3
   Dy        1.3             7            0.9
   Cm       22.0           25.0           18.0

Table 3: Magnetic ordering temperatures (_T_(N)_) of R in three
superconducting systems. _T_(N)_ of Cm is higher than all other R,
indicating that the magnetic interactions are very strong in Cm
compounds (Refs. [1, 9, 10, 13, 31, 35, 42–44, 47–52]).

teractions is about 2 K, it has been concluded that exchange
interactions play an important role for the magnetic ordering in the
R2CuO₄ series.[44] Although 3D magnetic ordering of the f moments is
observed in the _R_Ba₂Cu₉O₇ and Pb₂Sr₂_R_Cu₃O₈ series, the ordering
shows a 2D-like magnetic behavior, which is observed even above
_T_(N).[31, 44] This behavior originates naturally from the 2D-like
crystal structure. The _R-R_ nearest-neighbor distance along the c axis
(∼15.8 A) in Pb₂Sr₂_R_Cu₃O₈ is about four times larger than that in the
_a-b_ plane (∼3.9 A). Therefore R magnetic coupling within the _a-b_
plane is expected to be much stronger than the coupling between planes,
resulting in the observed 2D behavior. The Gd spins in Pb₂Sr₂GdCu₃O₈
order at 2.3 K and dipole rather than exchange magnetic interactions are
responsible for the magnetic ordering. In contrast, Cm in Pb₂Sr₂CmCu₃O₈
orders at 18 K, where it is clear that Cm-Cm exchange interactions play
the pivot role. That the exchange interactions are clearly more dominant
in the magnetic behavior of the Cm-based materials than in any of the
lanthanide analogs is consistent with the known characteristics of the
Cm 5f orbitals, which have a larger radial extent than their 5f
counterparts and therefore are more delocalized.[4] Cm states may more
easily hybridize with the CuO bands and make the exchange interactions
very strong in the _a-b_ plane as well as along the c direction. The
nature of the magnetic interactions is different in Cm and Gd in
Pb₂Sr₂_R_Cu₃O₈, therefore the magnetic structure may be also different
in these compounds.

The Cm analogs of all the Cu-O series studied to date have the highest
_T_(N)S_ within their series (Table 3). This result indicates that the
Cm magnetic exchange interactions are very strong. Interestingly, all
compounds with anomalously high _T_(N)_ (Cm compounds and PrBa₂Cu₃O₇)
are not superconducting; an observation that points toward the strong
connection between magnetism and superconductivity. Our measurements on
Pb₂Sr₂Cm_(1 − x)Ca_(x)Cu₃O₈ confirm the hybridization effects on
superconductivity. In Pr compounds, superconductivity appears to be
dependent on the splitting of the ³H₄ Russell-Saunders ground level.[8,
39] The superconducting critical temperature appears to correlate with
the moment of the Pr ground state. Cm, with its spherically symmetric
⁸S_(7/2) ground state, is uninfluenced to first order by the crystal
field, and therefore Cm always carries a large moment. All Cm
high-_T_(c)_ related compounds have been found to be nonsuperconducting.
Cm³⁺ 5f orbitals are not as well localized as their 4f counterparts, and
can easily hybridize with the CuO planar states responsible for
superconductivity and situated near the Cm ion. The large magnetic
moment on Cm can affect the superconductivity by breaking the Cooper
pairs. The strong bonding between the Cm magnetic f states and the CuO
band will make the indirect magnetic exchange interactions very strong
and induce the Cm spins to magnetically order at unusually high
temperatures. Strong Cm-Cm magnetic exchange interactions, implied by
the high magnetic ordering temperature, are expected to be mediated
along the c direction through the Cu-O layers implying a relatively
strong Cm-Cu coupling. Such a coupling has been previously reported in
PrBa₂Cu₃O₇.[45, 46] These Cm-Cu interactions influence the Cu sublattice
magnetic properties sufficiently to suppress superconductivity in the
Ca-doped compound. A full understanding of this correlation between
superconductivity and _T_(c)_ suppression requires further
investigation.

###### Acknowledgements.

This work benefited from the use of the Advanced Photon Source, and the
infrastructures provided by the Actinide Facility and the BESSRC CAT,
all at Argonne National Laboratory. This work was supported by the
DOE-Basic Energy Sciences, Chemical Sciences and Material Sciences (APS)
under Contract No. W-31-109-ENG-38.

## References

* [1] U. Staub and L. Soderholm, in _Handbook on the Physics and
Chemistry of Rare Earths_, edited by J. K. A. Gschneidner, L. Eyring,
and M. B. Maple (Elsevier Science, New York, 2000), Vol. 30, pp.
491-545. * [2] S. Skanthakumar and L. Soderholm, Phys. Rev. B **53**,
920 (1996). * [3] L. Soderholm, C. Williams, S. Skanthakumar, M. R.
Antonio, and S. Conradson, Z. Phys. B: Condens. Matter **101**, 539
(1996). * [4] L. Soderholm and U. Staub, in _Electron Correlations and
Magnetic Properties_, edited by J. A. Gonsi, N. Kioussis, and M. Ciftan
(Kluwer Academic, New York, 1999), pp. 115-136. * [5] L. F. Schneemeyer,
R. J. Cava, A. C. W. P. James, P. Marsh, T. Siegrist, J. V. Waszczak, J.
J. Krajewski, W. P. Peck, Jr., R. L. Opila, S. H. Glarum, J. H.
Marshall, R. Hull, and J. M. Bonar, Chem. Mater. **1**, 548 (1989). *
[6] R. J. Cava, B. Batlog, J. J. Krajewski, L. W. Rupp, L. F.
Schneemeyer, T. Siegrist, R. B. van Dover, P. Marsh, W. F. Peck, P. K.
Gallagher, S. H. Glarum, J. H. Marshall, R. C. Farrow, J. V. Waszczak,
R. Hull, and P. Trevor, Nature (London) **336**, 211 (1988). * [7] J. S.
Xue, M. Reedyk, J. E. Greedan, and T. Timusk, J. Solid State Chem.
**102**, 492 (1993). * [8] U. Staub, S. Skanthakumar, L. Soderholm, and
R. Osborn, J. Alloys Compd. **250**, 581 (1997). * [9] W. T. Hsieh,
W.-H. Li, K. C. Lee, J. W. Lynn, J. H. Shieh, and H. C. Ku, J. Appl.
Phys. **76**, 7124 (1994). * [10] J. H. Shieh, H. C. Ku, and J. C. Ho,
Phys. Rev. B **50**, 3288 (1994). * [11] J. Rohler, in _Handbook on the
Physics and Chemistry of Rare Earths_, edited by J. K. A. Gschneidner,
L. Eyring, and S. Hufner (North-Holland, Amsterdam, 1987), Vol. 10, p.
453. * [12] A. C. Larson and R. B. V. Dreele, Los Alamos National
Laboratory, Los Alamos, Report No. NM 87545, 1990 (unpublished). * [13]
L. Soderholm, S. Skanthakumar, and C. W. Williams, Phys. Rev. B **60**,
4302 (1999). * [14] F. W. Lytle, in _Applications of Synchrotron
Radiation_, edited by H. Winick, D. Xian, M. H. Ye, and T. Huang (Gordon
and Breach, New York, 1989), Vol. 4, p. 135. * [15] T. Ressler, J.
Synchrotron Radiat. **5**, 118 (1998).

* [16] J. J. Rehr, J. M. d. Leon, S. I. Zabinsky, and R. C. Albers, J.
Am. Chem. Soc. **113**, 5135 (1991). * [17] L. Soderholm, M. R. Antonio,
C. W. Williams, and S. R. Wasserman, Anal. Chem. **71**, 4622 (1999). *
[18] S. D. Conradson, I. A. Mahamid, D. L. Clark, N. J. Hess, E. A.
Hudson, M. P. Neu, P. D. Palmer, W. H. Runde, and C. D. Tait, Polyhedron
**19**, 599 (1998). * [19] S. Bertram, G. Kaindl, J. Jove, M. Pages, and
J. Gal, Phys. Rev. Lett. **63**, 2680 (1989). * [20] J.-E. Jorgensen and
N. H. Anderson, Physica C **235-240**, 877 (1994). * [21] R. D. Shannon,
Acta Crystallogr., Sect. A: Cryst. Phys., Diffr., Theor. Gen.
Crystallogr. **A32**, 751 (1976). * [22] M. A. Subramanian, J.
Gopalakrishnan, C. C. Torardi, P. L. Gai, E. D. Boyes, T. R. Askew, R.
B. Flippen, W. E. Farneth, and A. W. Sleight, Physica C **157**, 124
(1989). * [23] C. Chaillout, O. Chmaissen, J. J. Capponi, T. Fournier,
G. McIntyre, and M. Marezio, Physica C **175**, 293 (1991). * [24] R. J.
Cava, M. Marezio, J. J. Krajewski, W. F. Peck, Jr., A. Santoro, and F.
Becch, Physica C **157**, 272 (1989). * [25] M. Marezio, A. Santoro, J.
J. Capponi, E. A. Hewat, R. J. Cava, and F. Becch, Physica C **169**,
401 (1990). * [26] J.-E. Jorgensen and N. H. Andersen, Acta Chem. Scand.
**45**, 19 (1991). * [27] J. S. Xue, J. E. Greedan, and M. Maric, J.
Solid State Chem. **102**, 501 (1993). * [28] H. Fujishita, M. Sato, Y.
Morii, and S. Funahashi, Physica C **210**, 529 (1993). * [29] J.-E.
Jorgensen, Solid State Commun. **80**, 613 (1991). * [30] U. Staub, L.
Soderholm, S. Skanthakumar, P. Pattison, and K. Conder, Phys. Rev. B
**57**, 5535 (1998). * [31] S. Skanthakumar, L. Soderholm, and R.
Movshovich, J. Alloys Compd. **303-304**, 298 (2000). * [32] S.
Skanthakumar and L. Soderholm (unpublished). * [33] J.-E. Jorgensen and
N. H. Anderson, Acta Chem. Scand. **46**, 122 (1992). * [34] J.-E.
Jorgensen and N. H. Anderson, Physica C **218**, 43 (1994). * [35] L.
Soderholm, G. L. Goodman, U. Welp, C. W. Williams, and J. Bolender,
Physica C **161**, 252 (1989). * [36] S. Skanthakumar, J. W. Lynn, N.
Rosav, G. Cao, and J. E. Crow, Phys. Rev. B **55**, R3406 (1997). * [37]
L. Soderholm, C. W. Williams, and U. Welp, Physica C **179**, 440
(1991). * [38] T. Oguchi and T. Obokata, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **27**, 1111
(1969). * [39] U. Staub, L. Soderholm, S. Skanthakumar, R. Osborn, and
F. Fauth, Europhys. Lett. **39**, 663 (1997). * [40] H. A. Blackstead
and J. Dow, Phys. Rev. B **59**, 14 593 (1999). * [41] K. Kishio, K.
Kitazawa, N. Sugii, S. Kanbe, K. Fueki, H. Takagi, and S. Tanaka, Chem.
Lett. **1987**, 635. * [42] C. C. Lai, J. H. Shieh, B. S. Chiou, J. C.
Ho, and H. C. Ku, Phys. Rev. B **49**, 1499 (1994). * [43] T.
Chattopadhyay, P. J. Brown, A. A. Stepanov, P. Wyder, J. Voiron, A. I.
Zvyagin, S. N. Barilo, D. I. Zhigunov, and I. Zobkalo, Phys. Rev. B
**44**, 9486 (1991). * [44] J. W. Lynn and S. Skanthakumar, in _Handbook
on the Physics and Chemistry of Rare Earths_, edited by J. K. A.
Gschneidner, L. Eyring, and M. B. Maple (Elsevier Science, New York, in
press). * [45] S. Uma, W. Schnelle, E. Gmelin, G. Rangarajan, S.
Skanthakumar, J. W. Lynn, R. Walter, T. Lorenz, B. Buchner, E. Walker,
and A. Erb, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter **10**, L33 (1998). * [46] S.
Skanthakumar, J. W. Lynn, N. Rosov, G. Cao, and J. E. Crow, Phys. Rev. B
**55**, R3406 (1997). * [47] S. Obradors, P. Visani, M. A. d. l. Torre,
M. B. Maple, M. B. Tovar, F. Perez, P. Bordet, J. Chenavas, and D.
Chateigner, Physica C **213**, 81 (1993). * [48] H. Okada, M. Takano,
and Y. Takeda, Phys. Rev. B **42**, 6813 (1990). * [49] I. W. Sumarlin,
S. Skanthakumar, J. W. Lynn, J. L. Peng, Z. Y. Li, W. Jiang, and R. L.
Greene, Phys. Rev. Lett. **68**, 2228 (1992). * [50] C. R. Shih, T. H.
Meen, Y. C. Chen, and H. D. Yang, Phys. Rev. B **50**, 9619 (1994). *
[51] S. Y. Wu, W. T. Hsieh, W.-H. Li, K. C. Lee, J. W. Lynn, and H. D.
Yang, J. Appl. Phys. **75**, 6598 (1994). * [52] U. Staub, L. Soderholm,
S. Skanthakumar, S. Rosenkranz, C. Ritter, and W. Kagunya, Z. Phys. B:
Condens. Matter **104**, 37 (1997).
