# Effect of disorder on the pressure-induced superconducting state of
CeAu₂Si₂

Z. Ren

Zhi.Ren@unige.ch DQMP - University of Geneva, 24 Quai Ernest-Ansermet,
1211 Geneva 4, Switzerland

G. Giriat

DQMP - University of Geneva, 24 Quai Ernest-Ansermet, 1211 Geneva 4,
Switzerland

G. W. Scheerer

DQMP - University of Geneva, 24 Quai Ernest-Ansermet, 1211 Geneva 4,
Switzerland

G. Lapertot

SPSMS, UMR-E CEA/UJF-Grenoble 1, INAC, Grenoble, F-38054, France

D. Jaccard

DQMP - University of Geneva, 24 Quai Ernest-Ansermet, 1211 Geneva 4,
Switzerland

###### Abstract

CeAu₂Si₂ is a newly discovered pressure-induced heavy fermion
superconductor, which shows very unusual interplay between
superconductivity and magnetism under pressure. Here we compare the
results of high-pressure measurements on single-crystalline CeAu₂Si₂
samples with different levels of disorder. It is found that while the
magnetic properties are essentially sample independent,
superconductivity is rapidly suppressed when the residual resistivity of
the sample increases. We show that the depression of bulk $T_{\rm c}$
can be well understood in terms of pair breaking by nonmagnetic
disorder, which strongly suggests an unconventional pairing state in
pressurized CeAu₂Si₂. Furthermore, increasing the level of disorder
leads to the emergence of another phase transition at T^(⋆) within the
magnetic phase, which might be in competition with superconductivity.

pacs: 74.62.Fj, 74.62.En, 74.70.Tx + Footnote †: 2015

## I Introduction

Ce-based magnetic compounds that become superconducting under pressure
have attracted a lot of attention because of the intimate connection
between superconductivity (SC) and magnetic or valence instabilities
[1]. Prominent examples include CeCu₂Ge₂[2], CePd₂Si₂[3], CeIn₃[4], and
CeRhIn₅[5]. Very recently, pressure-induced heavy fermion SC with
transition temperatures $T_{\rm c}$ up to 2.5 K is observed in the
antiferromagnet CeAu₂Si₂[6], which is both isostructural and
isoelectronic to the first unconventional superconductor CeCu₂Si₂[7]. It
is quite remarkable in CeAu₂Si₂ that SC coexists with long-range
magnetic order over a huge pressure interval of 11 GPa. Moreover, in
approximately one-third of this pressure range, the magnetic ordering
temperature $T_{\rm M}$ and $T_{\rm c}$ are simultaneously enhanced by
pressure [6]. These behaviors are hardly explained within the common
scenarios of Cooper pairing mediated by spin [8] or valence-fluctuations
[9], and thus it is of particular interest to clarify the nature of SC
in this material.

The $T_{\rm c}$ response to the level of nonmagnetic disorder is known
to provide useful information for the phase of the superconducting gap
function. For conventional s-wave superconductors, no pair breaking is
expected by nonmagnetic disorder as long as the system remains metallic,
according to the Anderson’s theorem [10]. By contrast, for non s-wave
superconductors, in which there is a sign reversal in the
superconducting gap function, scattering from nonmagnetic disorder
averages out the gap over the Fermi surface and results in a strong
suppression of $T_{\rm c}$. This effect has been observed in a number of
unconventional superconductors, such as UPt₃[11], YBaCu₃O_(6 + x)[12],
Sr₂RuO₄[13], BEDT-TTF salts [14], and CePt₃Si [15]. Although it is
commonly believed that the pairing symmetry is non s-wave for Ce-based
pressure-induced superconductors [16], there is little systematic study
of a similar effect at high pressure.

In this paper, we present the pressure responses of two CeAu₂Si₂
crystals grown from different fluxes with in-plane residual
resistivities ρ₀ = 1.8 and 12.2μΩcm, respectively.

The results show that while the critical pressures for the disappearance
of magnetism and the delocalization of the Ce 4f electrons are almost
independent on ρ₀, the high-ρ₀ sample shows a much narrower pressure
range for SC and a considerably lower maximum $T_{\rm c}$. A detailed
analysis indicates that at ∼21.2 GPa, SC with an initial onset
$T_{\rm c}$ of ∼2.5 K is destroyed when ρ₀ exceed ∼46 μΩcm, i.e., when
the carrier mean free path is reduced to be similar to the
superconducting coherence length. Since there is good evidence that ρ₀
is dominated by the contribution of nonmagnetic disorder, our results
point to unconventional SC in CeAu₂Si₂ under pressure. In addition, the
high-ρ₀ sample displays another phase transition at a temperature below
$T_{\rm M}$, which is probably competing with SC.

## II Experimental

Crystal growth of CeAu₂Si₂ samples by Sn flux and Au-Si self-flux are
described in detail in Ref. [6]. The resulting crystals are labeled
hereafter as CeAu₂Si₂(Sn) and CeAu₂Si₂(self), respectively. Within the
resolution limits of x-ray and microprobe techniques, no difference is
observed in the crystal structure and chemical composition of the Sn-
and self-flux samples.

High-pressure experiments were performed using a Bridgman-type sintered
diamond-anvil cell with steatite as soft-solid pressure medium and lead
(Pb) as pressure gauge [17]. The results of high-pressure experiments on
CeAu₂Si₂(Sn) have been reported in Ref. [6]. For CeAu₂Si₂(self),
measurements are carried out in two different pressure cells. In the
first pressure cell, only resistivity is measured up to 25.5 GPa. The
second pressure cell is designed to measure both resistivity and ac heat
capacity, but the pressure is limited to 20.5 GPa. In both cells, the
CeAu₂Si₂(self) sample with its ab plane perpendicular to the compressive
force is connected in series with the Pb gauge. The resistivity was
measured by using a standard four-probe method. For ac-calorimetry
measurements, a chromel wire, which is otherwise used as a voltage lead,
serves as the heater, and the sample temperature oscillations are
detected by a Au/AuFe(0.07

## III Results and discussion

### Ambient pressure results

Figure 1 shows the comparison of the ambient pressure resistivity data
of the CeAu₂Si₂ crystals grown from the different fluxes. It can be
observed that the resistivity curve of CeAu₂Si₂(self) is an almost rigid
upshift of that of CeAu₂Si₂(Sn). After subtraction of the phonon
contribution to the resistivity ($\rho_{\rm ph}$), which is assumed to
be linear in temperature and pressure independent, both samples exhibit
a resistivity maximum at ∼140 K and a sharp drop in resistivity due to
the magnetic ordering below T_(N)≈ 10 K. Furthermore,
$\rho_{\rm ph}\approx 0.067T$ (μΩcm) estimated for CeAu₂Si₂(self) is in
agreement with that of CeAu₂Si₂(Sn) [6] within the geometrical factor
uncertainty (∼10

### Pressure response of CeAu₂Si₂(self)

Typical results at selected pressures of the resistivity (ρ) and ac heat
capacity (C^(∞)) of CeAu₂Si₂(self) are shown in Fig. 2. Apart from a
much larger residual resistivity ρ₀, the overall behavior of the
nonphononic resistivity [Fig. 2(a)] is very similar to that of
CeAu₂Si₂(Sn). At the intermediate pressure of 15.9 GPa, two broad maxima
exist at $T_{\rm a}^{\rm max}$ and $T_{\rm a}^{\rm max}$, and above each
maxima the data follow a −lnT dependence, which manifests the incoherent
Kondo scattering of the ground state and excited crystal-filed (CF)
levels, respectively [19, 20]. As pressure is increased to 20.5 GPa,
$T_{\rm a}^{\rm max}$ almost doubles while $T_{\rm a}^{\rm max}$ remains
nearly unchanged. At the highest pressure of 25.5 GPa, the Kondo effect
dominates over the CF splitting so that the two maxima are already
merged into a single peak at ∼180 K. Concomitantly, both the magnitude
of the resistivity and the −lnT slope increase rapidly with pressure,
signifying a strong enhancement of the Kondo interaction under pressure.

In Figs. 2(b)-2(d), we compare the results of ρ and C^(∞) below 5 K at
three typical pressures. At 9.4 GPa, the change of slope in resistivity
at ∼2.7 K coincides with the midpoint of the sharp jump in C^(∞)(T),
indicating a magnetic ordering [21]. Notably, at 15.9 GPa two jumps in
C^(∞)(T) are observed. The one at ∼4.4 K corresponds to a slight slope
change of the resistivity, while the other at ∼1.5 K is accompanied by a
steep resistivity drop that is independent of the applied current and is
not due to SC. Thus it appears that at this pressure the sample
undergoes two successive phase transitions, similarly to CeCu₂Ge₂ at ∼3
GPa [22]. At 20.5 GPa, the highest pressure at which C^(∞) is measured,
only one magnetic transition is detectable in both ρ and C^(∞)(T) at 3.3
K, and, below 1 K the incomplete resistive transition without any
corresponding anomaly in C^(∞)(T) indicates SC of filamentary nature.

The resulting pressure-temperature phase diagram is shown in Fig. 3(a).
The magnetic ordering temperature $T_{\rm M}$ initially decreases with
increasing pressure, as expected, due to the enhancement of the Kondo
interaction. However, $T_{\rm M}$ already starts to increase with
pressure above 8 GPa. At 15.9 GPa, another transition appears at
T^(*)<$T_{\rm M}$. With further increasing pressure, T^(*) rises while
$T_{\rm M}$ shows a maximum, and the two transitions merge at 18.9 GPa.
At higher pressures, $T_{\rm M}$ exhibits a dome-shaped dependence and
finally disappears abruptly above 22.5 GPa. On the other hand, SC is
observed from 19.9 GPa up to the highest investigated pressure. It is

Figure 1: (Color online) Logarithmic temperature dependence of the
in-plane resistivity at ambient pressure before (solid lines) and after
(dashed lines) subtraction of the phonon contribution for the CeAu₂Si₂
crystals grown from the different fluxes. The vertical dotted lines are
a guide to the eyes.

Figure 2: (Color online) (a) For typical pressures, logarithmic
temperature dependence of in-plane resistivity of the self-flux grown
CeAu₂Si₂(self) crystals after subtraction of the phonon contribution.
The two characteristic maxima $T_{\rm a}^{\rm max}$ and
$T_{\rm a}^{\rm max}$ at 15.9 GPa are marked by arrows. The dashed lines
are a guide to the eyes, evidencing the −lnT behavior. (b)–(d) show the
comparison of the resistivity and ac heat capacity for three different
pressures. The solid lines are a guide to the eyes.

pointed out that zero resistivity is achieved only at 21.2 GPa, the
pressure at which the onset $T_{\rm c}$ reaches its maximum of ∼1.1 K.
Both $T_{\rm c}$ and $T_{\rm M}$ are enhanced within a narrow pressure
range between 19.9 and 20.6 GPa.

Figure 3(b)-3(d) shows the fitting parameters of the power law
ρ(T) = ρ₀ + AT^(n) to the resistivity data plotted as a function of
pressure. Thanks to a sufficiently broad temperature window between
$T_{\rm c}$ and $T_{\rm M}$, we are able to extract reliable parameters
for the whole pressure range. The A coefficient exhibits two maxima at
13.9 and 22.5 GPa, respectively. The latter together with a minimum n
exponent (n ≈ 1.5) coincides with the disappearance of the magnetic
order, indicating a magnetic quantum critical point at
$p_{\rm c}=22.5\pm 0.5$ GPa. However, the former with n ≈ 2 occurs at a
pressure close to that of the interpolation of T^(*) to 0 K, which
points to the possibility of a putative quantum phase transition
occurring within the magnetic phase. Actually, ρ₀ shows a broad peak at
∼20 GPa, suggesting that the maximum scattering rate happens in between
these two QCPs. Nevertheless, the large A value at 13.9 GPa may contain
a significant contribution from the electron-magnon scattering, and thus
provides little information of the effective mass.

Figure 3(e) shows the plot of isothermal resistivity
ρ^(*)(p) = ρ(p) − ρ₀(p) versus p at selected temperatures up to 30 K.
Above 22.5 GPa, ρ^(*)(p) decreases steeply with pressure, revealing the
continuous delocalization of the Ce 4f electrons. For the data analyses,
we follow the procedure described in Ref. [23], which is based on the
assumption of an underlying critical end point located at ($p_{\rm cr}$,
$T_{\rm cr}$) in the p-T plane. It turns out that all the normalized
resistivity curves
$\rho_{\rm norm}(p)=(\rho^{*}(p)-~{}\rho^{*}(p_{\rm 50\%}))/\rho^{*}(p_{\rm 50\%})$
below 30 K fall on a single curve when plotted against h/θ, where for
each temperature, $p_{\rm 50\%}$ denotes the pressure corresponding to
the midpoint of the ρ^(*)(p) drop compared to its value at 22.5 GPa,
$h=(p-~{}p_{\rm 50\%})/p_{\rm 50\%}$ and
$\theta=(T~{}-~{}T_{\rm cr})/|T_{\rm cr}|$ with the only free parameter
$T_{\rm cr}=-25(8)$ K. The negative $T_{\rm cr}$ indicates a crossover
rather than a first-order transition. Moreover, the extrapolation of the
temperature dependence of $p_{\rm 50\%}$ to 0 K yields the critical end
pressure $p^{*}(\approx p_{\rm cr})=23.9\pm 0.7$ GPa.

### Comparison with the results of CeAu₂Si₂(Sn)

Figure 4 shows the p-T phase diagrams of CeAu₂Si₂(self) and CeAu₂Si₂(Sn)
including the lines defined by the

Figure 4: (Color online) p-T phase diagrams of (a) CeAu₂Si₂(self) and
(b) CeAu₂Si₂(Sn) including the temperatures $T_{1}^{\rm max}$ and
$T_{2}^{\rm max}$. Note that the vertical axis is in logarithmic scale.
The crossover(COV) line is determined by the scaling analysis of the
resistivity.

Figure 3: (Color online) (a) Experimental p-T phase diagram of
CeAu₂Si₂(self), $T_{\rm cr}^{\rm onset}$ and $T_{\rm M}$ represent the
superconducting transition onset and the magnetic ordering temperatures,
respectively. The open (closed) symbols denote the data extracted from
the resistivity measurements only (both resistivity and heat capacity
measurements). (b), (c), and (d) show the pressure dependencies of the
coefficient A, temperature exponent n, and residual resistivity
$\rho_{\rm c}$, respectively, obtained from the fitting of the power law
ρ(T) = ρ₀ + AT^(n) to the low-temperature resistivity data. (e) Plot of
ρ^(*) = ρ − ρ₀ vs p at selected temperatures up to 30 K. The closed
circles indicate for each isotherm the 50

temperatures $T_{2}^{\rm max}$ and $T_{2}^{\rm max}$ of the resistivity
maxima in the paramagnetic phase, as well as the crossover (COV) lines
obtained by the 50

By contrast, at temperatures below 5 K, the two phase diagrams show
significant differences. Although the critical pressures $p_{\rm c}$ and
p^(*) are nearly identical for both samples, in CeAu₂Si₂(self) a much
higher pressure (19.9 GPa) is needed to induce SC and the maximum onset
$T_{\rm c}$ is reduced by a factor of 2.3. As a consequence, the
pressure range for the overlap between the magnetic and superconducting
phases is restricted to ∼3 GPa. It is also noteworthy that the pressure
evolution of the magnetic order is more complex for CeAu₂Si₂(self).
While the origin of the transition at T^(*) remains unclear, it is
possible that the resulting ground state is competing with SC, as will
be discussed further below.

Figure 5 compares the power-law fitting parameters of the resistivity
data above $T_{\rm c}$ for CeAu₂Si₂(self) and CeAu₂Si₂(Sn). It can be
noted that the pressure dependencies of the three parameters are very
similar in both cases. The maximum A coefficient and minimum n(∼2)
exponent at $p_{\rm c}$ are typical for a QCP. Above $p_{\rm c}$, while
the n values increase only slightly, the A values drop abruptly by more
than one order of magnitude, indicating a transition from a strongly to
a weakly correlated regime. Moreover, the ρ₀ data of CeAu₂Si₂(Sn), when
multiplied by a factor of 4.7, match well with those of CeAu₂Si₂(self).
This scaling factor is not far from its ambient pressure value (∼6.7),
suggesting that the difference in the levels of disorder between
CeAu₂Si₂(self) and CeAu₂Si₂(Sn) does not change much with pressure.

We next turn our attention to the scaling behavior of the resistivity
near p^(*). Figure 6(a) shows the temperature dependence of 1/χ, where
$\chi=|d\rho_{\rm norm}/dp|_{\rho_{\rm norm}}$ is the slope of the
resistivity drop at the midpoint, for CeAu₂Si₂(self) and CeAu₂Si₂(Sn)
[6], as well as CeCu₂Si₂[23] for comparison. In the three cases, 1/χ
diminishes on lowering temperature, indicating that the slope becomes
increasingly steep as the systems approach their critical end point
located at ($p_{\rm cr}$, $T_{\rm cr}$). Assuming
$1/\chi\propto(T-T_{\rm cr})$, $T_{\rm cr}$ can be obtained by a linear
extrapolation of the data to the x axis. Remarkably, despite the large
differences in $T_{\rm cr}$ ranging from −25 to −8 K, the
$\rho_{\rm norm}$ data below 30 K follow almost the same curve when
plotted

Figure 5: (Color online) Comparison of the pressure dependencies of the
fitting parameters, (a) the A coefficient, (b) the ρ exponent, (c) the
residual resistivity ρ₀ for CeAu₂Si₂(self) and CeAu₂Si₂(Sn). The open
and closed symbols denote the data for CeAu₂Si₂(Sn) and CeAu₂Si₂(self),
respectively. Note that the ρ₀ data for CeAu₂Si₂(Sn) are multiplied by a
factor of 4.7. The vertical dashed line is a guide to the eyes.

Figure 6: (Color online) (a) Temperature dependencies of the inverse
slope 1/χ (see text for details) for CeAu₂Si₂(self), CeAu₂Si₂(Sn), and
CeCu₂Si₂ from Ref. [23]. $T_{\rm cr}$ values are extracted from linear
fits to the data (solid lines). (b) $\rho_{\rm norm}$ data plotted as a
function of h/θ for the three cases, showing a good agreement.

as a function of h/θ especially for h/θ> 0 (p>p_(50%)), as shown in Fig.
6(b). This means that, for a generalized distance h/θ from the critical
end point, $\rho_{\rm norm}$ behaves in the same way for both CeAu₃Si₂
and CeCu₂Si₂. Further study is needed to establish the level of
generality of such a behavior in related Ce-based compounds. For our two
CeAu₃Si₂ crystals, it appears that higher (less negative) $T_{\rm cr}$
corresponds to higher $T_{\rm c}$. However, despite their similar
$T_{\rm c}$ values near their respective p^(⋆), the absolute
$T_{\rm cr}$ value of CeAu₂Si₂(Sn) is nearly twice that of CeCu₂Si₂.
Nevertheless, the $T_{\rm cr}$ value of CeAu₂Si₂ could be considerably
underestimated due to the unavoidable degradation of hydrostatic
conditions at very high pressure.

To gain insight into the pressure-induced SC in CeAu₂Si₂, we show in
Fig. 7(a) the resistivity below 3 K of the Sn- and self-flux grown
crystals around 21.2 GPa, a pressure close to that of the optimum
$T_{\rm c}$. As can be seen, CeAu₂Si₂(Sn) has a low ρ₀ and shows a sharp
superconducting transition below 2.55 K with a width of 0.18 K. By
contrast, CeAu₂Si₂(self) has a much higher ρ₀, and its superconducting
onset temperature is shifted to 1.15 K, while the transition width
increases to 0.55 K. This trend is further corroborated by investigating
the effect of pressure cycling on CeAu₂Si₂(Sn), which tends to induce
further disorder(dislocation) and therefore increase ρ₀.

Indeed, when pressure is increased again up to ∼21.2 GPa (after a
partial depressurization from 27.6 down to 10 GPa), the ρ₀ value doubles
while the onset $T_{\rm c}$ decreases to ∼2.2 K. Concomitantly, the
resistive transition becomes much broader most likely due to the
decrease of pressure homogeneity, which is inevitable after the pressure
cycling.

In Fig. 7(b), we plot the dependence of $T_{\rm c}^{\rm bulk}$ on ρ₀ at
∼21.2 GPa. Here, $T_{\rm c}^{\rm bulk}$ is defined as the temperature
where zero resistivity is achieved, given that the completeness of
resistive transition coincides with the jump in the ac heat capacity
[6]. As can be seen, $T_{\rm c}^{\rm bulk}$ decreases rapidly with
increasing ρ₀. For f-electron systems, ρ₀ can be expressed as ρ₀ =
$\rho_{0}^{\rm Rom}+\rho_{0}^{\rm bin}$, where $\rho_{0}^{\rm Rom}$ and
$\rho_{0}^{\rm unit}$ are due to the nonmagnetic disorder of non-f
elements and the defects of Ce ions, respectively [24]. Under pressure,
$\rho_{0}^{\rm unit}$ remains essentially unaffected while
$\rho_{0}^{\rm Rom}$ is subject to a large enhancement due to critical
fluctuations [26]. The values of ρ₀ for both CeAu₂Si₂(self) and
CeAu₂Si₂(Sn) are much larger at ∼21.2 GPa than at ambient pressure,
indicating that $\rho_{0}^{\rm Rom}$ dominates ρ₀. Therefore our results
are consistent with pair breaking by nonmagnetic disorder.

According to the Abrikosov-Gor’kov (AG) theory [27] generalized for
nonmagnetic disorder in a non-s-wave superconductor [28, 29, 30], the
suppression of $T_{\rm c}$ follows $\ln(\frac{T_{\rm c}}{2})$ =
$\Psi(\frac{1}{2}+\frac{\pi T_{\rm c}}{2})-\Psi(\frac{1}{2})$, where Ψ
is the digamma function, α =
$\hbar/(2\pi k_{\rm B}T_{\rm c}T_{\rm c0})$, t is the scattering time,
and $T_{\rm c0}$ is $T_{\rm c}$ in the disorder-free limit (α→ 0). The
model predicts that $T_{\rm c}$ vanishes at a critical α, which is
roughly equivalent to the fact that the carrier mean free path l is
comparable to the superconducting (Pippard) coherence length ξ₀. It
turns out that the experimental data obey well the functional form of
the AG theory, with $T_{\rm c}^{\rm bulk}$≈ 2.7 K and a critical
$\rho_{0}^{\rm cr}$∼ 46 μΩcm. The corresponding critical mean free path
$l^{\rm cr}$ can be estimated using the relation l = (1.27 × 10⁴)/ρ₀(N /
V)^(2/3), where ρ₀ is in Ωcm, N is the number of conduction electrons
per unit cell, and V is the unit cell volume in cm³[31]. Assuming N = 6
(there are two formula units per unit cell) and with V = 1.6 × 10⁻²²
cm³[6], we obtain $l^{\rm cr}$≈ 27 A, which is half of the
Ginzburg-Landau(GL) coherence length $\xi_{0\rm L}$(0) = 55 A (≈ξ₀)
deduced from the measurement of the upper critical field at 22.3 GPa
with $T_{\rm c}$∼ 2.5 K [6]. It should be pointed out that $l^{\rm cr}$
could be underestimated due to the following reasons. (i) The N value is
overestimated. (ii) Only the parts of the sample with λ low enough ρ₀
become superconducting such that $\rho_{0}^{\rm cr}$ is overestimated.
(iii) The calculated $l^{\rm cr}$ reflects mainly the contribution from
the scattering of the light quasiparticles, while $l^{\rm cr}$ for the
heavy quasiparticles that form Cooper pairs could be longer [32]. Thus
it is reasonable to speculate that the actual $l^{\rm cr}$ is close to
ξ₀.

The above analysis shows that the suppression of bulk $T_{\rm c}$ can be
understood, not only qualitatively but also quantitatively, within the
pair breaking model. This strongly points to unconventional pairing in
the superconducting state of CeAu₂Si₂ under pressure. As a matter of
fact, in CeCu₂Si₂ at a similar volume V (p∼ 4.2 GPa) [6], the ρ₀
dependence of the maximum $T_{\rm c}^{\rm bulk}$ shows very similar
behavior to that of CeAu₂Si₂ for ρ₀∼ 50 μΩcm [inset of Fig. 7(b)] [9,
18, 22, 23, 24, 25, 33], suggesting a common mechanism of SC in these

Figure 7: (Color online) (a) Temperature dependencies of the resistivity
of CeAu₂Si₂ at ∼21.2 GPa for different level of disorder. The dashed
lines denote the power-law fit employed to extract the residual
resistivity ρ₀. (b) Plot of $T_{\rm c}^{\rm bulk}$ vs ρ₀ for CeAu₂Si₂ at
∼21.2 GPa. The solid line is a fit from the AG theory to the data. The
inset shows $T_{\rm c}^{\rm bulk}$ plotted as a function of ρ₀ for
CeAu₂Si₂ at ∼21.2 GPa, CeCu₂Si₂ at ∼4.2 GPa and CeCu₂Ge₂ at ∼16 GPa.
Note that we have collected _all_ available data from Refs. [9, 18, 22,
25, 33].

compounds. Moreover, at this V, magnetic order is still present in
CeAu₂Si₂ but is absent in CeCu₂Si₂, which supports the idea that
magnetic order and SC are not directly related [6]. For ρ₀ > 50μΩcm, the
depression of $T_{\rm c}^{\rm bulk}$ of CeCu₂Si₂ with increasing ρ₀
becomes much weaker, and SC survives even when ρ₀ is of the order of the
Ioffe-Regel limit [34]. However, the large ρ₀ could be due to the effect
of Kondo holes [35, 36], and thus is no longer a good indication of the
level of disorder.

The sensitivity of SC in CeAu₂Si₂ to nonmagnetic disorder also allows of
an explanation for the transition at T^(*) observed in CeAu₂Si₂(self).
It is theoretically demonstrated that when coupled to quantum critical
fluctuations, disorder can induce regions of local order or even long
range order in the host phase [37]. Indeed, a recent experimental study
shows that nonmagnetic Cd impurities in CeCoIn₈ nucleate magnetic
regions even when global magnetic order is suppressed and bulk SC is
restored by pressure, which is ascribed to the local competition between
magnetism and SC [38]. As shown above, the emergence of the transition
at T^(⋆) may be related to a putative QCP, and most coincides with the
establishment of bulk SC in CeAu₂Si₂(Sn). It is possible that near the
disorder sites in CeAu₂Si₂(Sn), SC is locally destroyed and regions of
competing order are formed. With increasing disorder, these regions are
expected to grow in size and start to overlap. As a result, above a
certain level of disorder, SC is destroyed completely and long-range
order develops, as in CeAu₂Si₂(self).

## References

* [1] G. Knebel, D. Aoki, and J. Flouquet, C. R. Phys. **12**, 542
(2011). * [2] D. Jaccard, K. Behnia, and J. Sierro, Phys. Lett. A
**163**, 475 (1992). * [3] F. M. Grosche, S. R. Julian, N. D. Mathur,
and G. G. Lonzarich, Physica (Amsterdam) **223-224B**, 50 (1996). * [4]
N. D. Mathur, F. M. Grosche, S. R. Julian, I. R. Walker, D. M. Freye, R.
K. W. Haselwimmer, and G. G. Lonzarich, Nature (London) **394**, 39
(1998). * [5] H. Hegger, C. Petrovic, E. G. Moshopoulou, M. F. Hundley,
J. L. Sarrao, Z. Fisk, and J. D. Thompson, Phys. Rev. Lett. **84**, 4986
(2000). * [6] Z. Ren, L. V. Pourovskii, G. Giriat, G. Lapertot, A.
Georges, and D. Jaccard, Phys. Rev. X **4**, 031055 (2014). * [7] F.
Steglich, J. Aarts, C. D. Bredl, W. Lieke, D. Meschede, W. Franz, and H.
Schafer, Phys. Rev. Lett. **43**, 1892 (1979). * [8] O. Stockert, J.
Arndt, E. Faulhaber, C. Geibel, H. S. Jeevan, S. Kirchner, M.
Loewenhaupt, K. Schmalzl, W. Schmidt, Q. Si, and F. Steglich, Nat. Phys.
**7**, 119 (2011). * [9] A. T. Holmes, D. Jaccard, and K. Miyake, Phys.
Rev. B **69**, 024508 (2004). * [10] P. W. Anderson, J. Phys. Chem.
Solid **11**, 26 (1959). * [11] Y. Dalichaouch, M. C. de Andrade, D. A.
Gajewski, R. Chau, P. Visani, and M. B. Maple, Phys. Rev. Lett. **75**,
3938 (1995). * [12] S. K. Tolpygo, J.-Y. Lin, M. Gurvitch, S. Y. Hou,
and J. M. Phillips, Phys. Rev. B **53**, 12454 (1996). * [13] A. P.
Mackenzie, R. K. W. Haselwimmer, A. W. Tyler, G. G. Lonzarich, Y. Mori,
S. Nishizaki, and Y. Maeno, Phys. Rev. Lett. **80**, 161 (1998). * [14]
B. J. Powell and R. H. McKenzie, Phys. Rev. B **69**, 024519 (2004). *
[15] M. Nicklas, F. Steglich, J. Knolle, I. Eremin, R. Lackner, and E.
Bauer, Phys. Rev. B **81**, 180511(R) (2010). * [16] P. Monthoux, D.
Pines, and G. G. Lonzarich, Nature (London) **450**, 1177 (2007). * [17]
A. T. Holmes, D. Jaccard, G. Behr, Y. Inada, and Y. Onuki, J. Phys.:
Condens. Matter **16**, S1121 (2004). * [18] A. T. Holmes, Ph.D. thesis,
Universite de Geneve, 2004, http://archive-ouverte.unige.ch/unige:284. *
[19] B. Cornut and B. Coqblin, Phys. Rev. B **5**, 4541 (1972). * [20]
Y. Nishida, A. Tsuruta, and K. Miyake, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **75**, 064706
(2006). * [21] N. Tateiwa, Y. Haga, T. D. Matsuda, S. Ikeda, T. Yasuda,
T. Takeuchi, R. Settai, and Y. Onuki, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **74**, 1903
(2005). * [22] D. Jaccard, H. Wilhelm, K. Alami-Yadri, and E. Vargoz,
Physica (Amsterdam) **259-261B**, 1 (1999). * [23] G. Seyfarth, A.-S.
Ruetschi, K. Sengupta, A. Georges, D. Jaccard, S. Watanabe, and K.
Miyake, Phys. Rev. B **85**, 205105 (2012). * [24] A. T. Holmes, D.
Jaccard, and K. Miyake, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **76**, 051002 (2007). * [25]
B. Bellarbi, A. Benoit, D. Jaccard, J. M. Mignot, and H. F. Braun, Phys.
Rev. B **30**, 1182 (1984). * [26] K. Miyake and O. Narikiyo, J. Phys.
Soc. Jpn. **71**, 867 (2002). * [27] A. A. Abrikosov and L. P. Gor’kov,
Zh. Eksp. Teor. Fiz. **39**, 1781 (1960) [Sov. Phys. JETP **12**, 1243
(1961)].

* [28] P. I. Larkin, Zh. Eksp. Teor. Fiz. Pis’ma Red. **2**, 205 (1965)
[Sov. Phys. JETP Lett. **2**, 130 (1965)]. * [29] A. J. Millis, S.
Sachdev, and C. M. Varma, Phys. Rev. B **37**, 4975 (1988). * [30] R. J.
Radtke, K. Levin, H.-B. Schuttler, and M. R. Norman, Phys. Rev. B
**48**, 653(R) (1993). * [31] M. B. Maple, J. W. Chen, S. E. Lambert, Z.
Fisk, J. L. Smith, H. R. Ott, J. S. Brooks, and M. J. Naughton, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **54**, 477 (1985). * [32] H. Q. Yuan, F. M. Grosche, M.
Deppe, C. Geibel, G. Sparn, and F. Seglich, New J. Phys. **6**, 132
(2004). * [33] E.Vargoz, Ph.D. thesis, Universite de Geneve, 1998. *
[34] A. T. Holmes, D. Jaccard, H. S. Jeevan, C. Geibel, and M. Ishikawa,
J. Phys.: Condens. Matter **17**, 5423 (2005). * [35] J. M. Lawrence, J.
D. Thompson, and Y. Y. Chen, Phys. Rev. Lett. **54**, 2537 (1985). *
[36] D. Jaccard, E. Vargoz, K. Alami-Yadri, and H. Wilhelm, Rev. High
Pressure Sci. Technol. **7**, 412 (1998). * [37] A. J. Millis, D. K.
Morr, and J. Schmalian, Phys. Rev. Lett. **87**, 167202 (2001). * [38]
S. Seo, X. Lu, J.-X. Zhu, R. R. Urbano, N. Curro, E. D. Bauer, V. A.
Sidorov, L. D. Pham, T. Park, Z. Fisk, and J. D. Thompson, Nat. Phys.
**10**, 120 (2014).

Copyright of Physical Review B: Condensed Matter & Materials Physics is
the property of American Physical Society and its content may not be
copied or emailed to multiple sites or posted to a listserv without the
copyright holder’s express written permission. However, users may print,
download, or email articles for individual use.
