Depression of superconductivity and the phonon-drag effect in
glass-ceramic superconductors obtained by annealing the Fe-doped (Bi,
Pb)4Sr3Ca3Cu4-_m_Fe_m_O_x glassy precursor

S. Chatterjee, P. K. Pal, S. Bhattacharya, and B. K. Chaudhuri

Department of Solid State Physics, Indian Association for the
Cultivation of Science, Calcutta-700032, India

1 December 1997; revised manuscript received 30 March 1998

###### Abstract

Electrical conductivities and Seebeck coefficients of Fe-doped Bi-2212
type superconductors have been reported in the temperature range 300-10
K. These superconductors are obtained by annealing the Fe-doped
amorphous Bi3PbSr3Ca3Cu4-_m_Fe_m_O_x_ (_m_ = 0.0, 0.02, 0.04, 0.05, and
0.06) system around 840 degC for 40 h in air. The superconducting
transition temperature T_(c) decreases continuously with a gradual
increase of Fe content and finally diminishes for m >= 0.06 supporting
the Abrikosov-Gor’kov-type pair-breaking mechanism. Unlike undoped glass
ceramics, semiconducting behavior exhibited by all the Fe-doped glass
ceramics in their normal states can be explained by Mott’s variable
range hopping model. The Seebeck coefficients (_S_) of the glass-ceramic
superconductors showed interesting nonlinear variation with temperature.
Such nonlinear variation of thermopower is considered to be associated
with phonon-drag effect which is, however, not the case in undoped (Fe
free) glass-ceramic superconductors. Formation of impurity bonds such as
Cu-O-Fe, Fe-O-Fe, etc., is considered to be more important than the
magnetic effect for the depression of T_(c) and nonlinear thermal
variation of Seebeck coefficient (_S_) in these superconductors.
[S0163-1829(98)03041-0]

## I Introduction

Substitution of Cu ions by other magnetic and nonmagnetic ions in the
well investigated parent superconducting systems such as Y-Ba-Cu-O,
Bi-Sr-Ca-Cu-O, etc., cause interesting changes in the transport
properties of these superconducting oxides.1-15 One of the most
interesting properties of the substituted system is the disappearance of
superconductivity with increase of 3_d_-metal impurity substituting Cu
ions. In many Bi-based superconducting compounds,1-4 prepared by the
standard ceramic heating route, suppression of T_(c) by substitution of
Ni and Zn for Cu has been observed. However, these results so far do not
agree from study to study.1,13 The pair-breaking mechanism of Abrikosov
and Gor’kov16 was used to explain the decrease of T_(c) with impurity
concentration. This mechanism is, however, found to be inapplicable for
the (_R_1-,Pr,Ce0,S)Sr2Cu2NbO_x (Ref. 7), _R_Ba2Cu3-_M_xO_y (_R_ = Sm,
Dy; M = Fe, Ni, and Zn) (Ref. 5), etc., systems.

In conventional low-T_(c) superconductors, it is well known that
paramagnetic impurities are much more effective T_(c) suppressors. Such
paramagnetic scattering gives rise to a strong pair-breaking effect for
the spin singlet _s_-wave Cooper pairs.6 This does not seem to be the
case in high-T_(c) cuprates. For example, the whole family of the
YBa2Cu3O7-_s_-type compounds with magnetic rare-earth ions has
essentially the same T_(c) values.5,17 Furthermore, there seems to be no
significant differences in the strengths of T_(c) suppression between
magnetic (Fe) and nonmagnetic (Zn) impurities.2,14 in systems such as
Bi(SrCa)(Cu1-_M_x_)O_x_ (where M = Ni, Zn) indicating a dramatic effect
of such substitutions on T_(c).

It is to be noted that most of the above-mentioned superconductors have
been prepared by the usual ceramic heating route. The superconductors
prepared by this route are, in general, porous and not very homogeneous.
However, the superconductors prepared by the glass-ceramic route are
homogeneous and are also highly dense.18,19 In this method the
superconductors (mostly Bi-based), called glass-ceramic (GC)
superconductors, are prepared from homogeneous glassy precursors by
annealing the glass samples at higher temperatures (above the glass
transition temperatures T_(g)). For studying the effect of doping, the
GC route appears to be very suitable because of well mixing during glass
formation. However, to the best of our knowledge, very few
superconducting samples have so far been prepared by the GC route to
study the effect of doping with Fe, Cr, Co, or other magnetic or
nonmagnetic ions on the electrical conductivity and thermoelectric
power. These studies provide interesting information about the nature of
the carriers and phonon-drag effect in oxide superconductors. It is also
important to clarify whether the suppression of T_(c), as mentioned
above, could be associated with Abrikosov-Gor’kov pair breaking or some
other mechanism. In a recent paper Goldschmidt _et al._20 also pointed
out that the departure from the TEP curve (plotted against T_(c),
$T_{c}^{\rm max}$) will occur whenever there exists pair-breaking or
interaction weakening. This contention also needs further verification.

Our aim in the present paper is to report the temperature-dependent
electrical conductivities and thermoelectric powers of the bismuth based
GC superconductors obtained from the Bi3PbSr3Ca3Cu4-_m_Fe_m_O_x_ (_m_ =
0 - 0.06) type glassy precursors. These GC superconductors thus obtained
are referred to as BiFe-2212-type superconductors. Unlike the
conventional ceramic route, these glass-ceramic superconductors with
different concentrations of iron are obtained from the corresponding
homogeneous glassy phases, for better mixing the doping atoms and
homogeneity of the corresponding GC superconducting samples. The base
glass, viz., Bi3PbSr3Ca3Cu4O_x_ (hereafter referred to as [4334] glass)
has been chosen as it is well known18,19 that this glassy phase is
easily converted to the corresponding superconduct ing Bi-2212 phase
with superconducting transition temperature T_(c)∼80 K.

The superconducting transition temperatures of the GC superconductors
(BiFe-2212) obtained from the Fe-doped glassy precursors ([4334] or
Bi₃PbSr₃Ca₃Cu_(4 − m)Fe_(m)O_(x) with m = 0 - 0.06) are found to
decrease linearly with the increase of Fe content which strongly
supports the pair-breaking mechanism. An interesting nonlinear variation
of Seebeck coefficients exhibited by the corresponding GC superconductor
has been correlated with the phonon-drag effect.

## II Sample preparation and experimental techniques

The thick plates (1−2 mm thickness) of Bi₃PbSr₃Ca₃Cu_(4 − m)Fe_(m)O_(x)
(with m = 0.0, 0.02, 0.04, 0.05, 0.06) glasses are prepared by the rapid
quenching technique discussed earlier.[21] The purity of Fe₂O₃ used for
these glasses was 99.99

## III Results and discussion

The XRD (Cu Kα) patterns of some of the iron-doped as-quenched
Bi₃PbSrCa₃Cu_(4 − m)Fe_(m)O_(x) glasses (with m = 0.02−0.06) are shown
in Fig. 1 indicating glassy behavior. Some important parameters of the
glassy precursors and their room-temperature conductivities are shown in
Table 1 for comparison. It is seen that both T_(x) and T_(g) of the
glasses increase appreciably even with only a small increase of Fe
concentration and the appreciable difference between T_(g) and T_(x)
also indicates that these Fe-doped glasses are quite stable and could be
used for drawing fibers.

Figure 2 shows the XRD patterns of the corresponding
Bi₃PbSr₃Ca₃Cu_(4 − m)Fe_(m)O_(x) glass-ceramic superconductors
(BiFe-2212). The appearance of sharp peaks in Fig. 2 is due to the
formation of crystalline phases. Most of the peaks belong to the 2212
phase and a few peaks belong to the 2223 phase. The peaks corresponding
to the superconducting 2223 phase decrease with increase of dopant Fe
concentration. Thus the doping of Fe causes a degradation of the
superconducting 2223 phase in the glass ceramics. For glass ceramics
with m = 0.02 and 0.04 no impurity reflections belonging to Fe₂O₃ or FeO
are observed, indicating that the dopants are incorporated into the
crystalline structure but for the GC samples with m = 0.05 and 0.06 very
few peaks belonging to FeO are formed (Fig. 2). Since all the above
glass-ceramic BiFe-2212 samples are obtained from their respective
homogeneous glassy phases, the small impurity phases are homogeneously
distributed in the superconducting 2212 phase.

The electrical conductivities of all the glasses shown in Fig. 3
(between 80−450 K) represent semiconducting behavior which can be well
fitted with the theory of the "small polaron" hopping conducting
mechanism[25] (not shown in this paper). Figure 4 shows the temperature
dependence of the resistivity for the Fe-doped and undoped (m = 0)
glass-ceramic samples obtained by annealing the corresponding glassy
phases at higher temperatures as mentioned above. All these samples
(except the Fe-free sample) show semiconduc-torlike behavior above
superconducting T_(c) (onset) temperature [Fig. 4(a)]. This is in
contrast to the behavior of the corresponding Fe-free glass ceramics
which showed metallic behavior in their normal state above their
superconducting transitions[22] also shown in Fig. 4(a) for comparison.
Both T_(c) and T_(c0) of the Fe-doped GC (BiFe-2212) samples decrease
with the increase of Fe content and finally they become completely
semiconducting for m ≈ 0.06 as shown in Fig. 4(b). Variations of
superconducting transition temperature T_(c) and T_(c0) (zero resistance
temperature) with Fe concentrations are shown in Table 2.

The above-mentioned semiconducting behavior of the normal-state
resistivity of the GC phase is found to be well fitted with the Mott
variable range [three-dimensional (3D)] hopping (VRH) model.[23, 24] It
is well documented in the literature[23] that the increase of
resistivity with decreasing temperature can be well described by the VRH
model.[24] In this model it is assumed that the charge carriers move
along a path determined by the optimal pair hopping rate from one
localized state to another. Band conduction is absent because the
extended states are too far away from the Fermi level. The applicability
of this model in high-T_(c) superconducting materials is not unusual.
Almost all the insulating phases of high-T_(c) materials[9, 10, 11, 12,
26] exhibit the phenomenon. However, the temperature range over which
VRH occurs differs for different materials. For example, in the
PrBa₂Cu_(3 − x)Ga_(x)O_(7 − δ)

Figure 1: X-ray diffraction pattern (with Cu Kα) of
Bi₃PbSr₃Ca₃Cu_(4 − m)Fe_(m)O_(x) as-quenched glasses: (a) m = 0.02, (b)
m = 0.04, (c) m = 0.05, and (d) m = 0.06, showing amorphous character
with a broad hump around 2 θ = 30^(∘).

(Ref. 27) system, 3D hopping behavior is observed in the temperature
range 14−150 K. In the Y_(1 − x)Pr_(x)Ba₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) (Ref. 28) system
3D VRH behavior is observed from room-temperature (RT) down to 20 K.
Fournier, Gagnon, and Aubin [10] reported that Fe-doped Y-123 showed
hopping conduction. Sugita _et al._[29] observed 3D behavior in the
Y-Ba₂Cu_(3 − x)Fe_(x)O₇ system at higher temperatures but a deviation at
low temperatures. There are many other high-T_(c) systems where the VRH
mechanism of conduction was attributed, viz., La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO (Refs.
30 and 31), PrBa₂Cu₃O₇ (Ref. 25), YBa₂Cu_(3 − x)(Fe, Zn)_(x)O₇ (Ref. 5),
Bi₂Sr₂Ca_(1 − x)_R_x_Cu₂O_(8 − δ) (_R_ = Nd, Sm, Gd, Dy, Y) (Ref. 32),
etc. We fitted the data with the standard (2D) Mott equation [2] with γ
= $\frac{1}{4}$:

ρ = ρ₀[T/T₀]^(1/2)exp (T₀/T)^(γ),

where ρ is the resistivity and the parameter T₀ is related to density of
states N(E_(F)) at the Fermi level, and the localization length a is
T₀ = 21/[kN(E_(F))a³]. Table 2 shows the parameters used to fit the
experimental data. The values of T₀ obtained is quite reasonable.[33]

It can be seen from Fig. 5 and Table 2 that the dopants cause both T_(c)
and T_(c₀) to decrease monotonically with the increase of Fe
concentration (_m_). This suppression of T_(c₀) occurs even at very low
Fe concentration in the present system. In the Y-Ba-Cu-O oxide,[34]
however, superconductivity diminishes for a large (0.35 wt.

These new bonds are also present in the GC phases which behave as
impurities and are not equivalent to the Cu-O-Cu bonds already present
in the undoped (Bi-Pb-Sr-Ca-Cu-O) system. With the increase of Fe
concentration, more and more such new bonds are formed which finally
destroy superconductivity. Similar arguments are also applied for the
Ni- and Zn-doped Bi-Sr-Ca-Cu-O system [7, 14] where linear depressions
of T_(c) with the increase of Ni and Zn impurities are observed.
Therefore, it is not actually the magnetism of the doping transition
metal ions which effects the suppression of T_(c) . Rather, it is the
effect of impurity bonds formed with the Cu ions which actually causes
the suppression of T_(c) .

The critical concentration $x_{\rm cr}$ required to suppress T_(c) to
zero is estimated to be around 0.06. According to the Abrikosov-Gor’kov
(AG) pair-breaking mechanism [16], the reduced transition temperature
T_(c₀)(x)/T_(c₀)(0) is a universal function of reduced concentration
($x/x_{\rm cr}$) given by the relation

$$\ln[\,T_{c_{0}}(x)/T_{c_{0}}(0)\,] = \Psi[\,\frac{1}{2}\,+\,0.14\times T_{c_{0}}/x_{\rm cr}T_{c}x],$$
(2)

where Ψ is the digamma function. Figure 5 shows the AG fit of T_(c₀)(x)
versus m for the present (BiFe-2221) GC superconductors. Therefore, the
decrease of T_(c₀) with Fe content in the present system can be
explained by the AG pair-breaking mechanism. In conventional low-T_(c)
(BCS-type) superconductors, the presence of magnetic impurities
depresses T_(c) more strongly than the nonmagnetic impurities [16]. In
the superconducting
Bi_(1.2)Pb_(0.8)La_(0.5)Sr_(1.5)Cu_(1 − x)/M_(x)O_(y) system (M = Ni,
Zn), both Zn and Ni were found to depress T_(c) at approximately the
same rate [36]. Also in the (Bi, Pb)₂Sr₂Ca₂Cu_(3 − x)/M_(x)O_(y) (M =
Zn, Fe) superconductors, both Zn (without magnetic moment) and Fe (with
magnetic moment) depress T_(c)/T_(c₀) in a similar manner [14, 17]. This
also supports the idea that the effect of impurity bonds with copper, as
discussed above, is responsible for the depression of T_(c) .

Experimental results for samples with low dopant concentration (as in
our present system), therefore, indicate that local disorder rather than
magnetism is the important factor for the suppression of
superconductivity in cuprate superconductors. Disorder also affects the
superconductivity according to the theory proposed by Coffey _et
al._[37] This theory predicts an increase in normal-state resistivity
due to impurity scattering introduced by disorder, accompanied by the
depression of superconductivity. It is obvious from Fig. 4 that the
normal-state resistivity of all the samples increases with the increase
of dopant impurity (Fe). This is due to the formation of new impurity
bonds such as Fe-O-Cu, Zn-O-Cu, Ni-O-Cu, Fe-O-Fe, Zn-O-Zn, etc., causing
the decrease of T_(c) .

The temperature variation of thermoelectric power (TEP) of Fe-doped
BiFe-2212 GC superconductors are shown in Fig. 6. It is observed from
this figure that both type of carriers (holes and electrons) are present
in this system. It is also found (Fig. 6) that as the temperature
decreases from room temperature, the TEP increases up to a maximum value
of temperature T_(s) (say) followed by a minimum value around the
temperature 80 K. The temperature T_(s) is slightly Fe concentration
dependent which shifts to the low-temperature region with increase of
concentration. This shift is considered

Figure 4: Thermal variation of resistivity of the superconducting glass
ceramics obtained by annealing the Bi₁Pb₁Sr₂Ca₅Cu_(4 − m)Fe_(m)O_(z)
glasses at 849 °C for 40 h in air with m = 0 (□), 0.02 (■), 0.04 (○),
0.05 (■), and 0.06 (×)]. Solid lines are least squares fitting with Eq.
(1).

Figure 5: Linear variation of zero resistance temperature (T_(c₀)) with
the iron concentration (m) of the superconducting glass ceramics
(obtained by annealing the Bi₁PbSr₂Ca₅Cu_(4 − m)Fe_(m)O_(z) glasses at
840 °C for 40 h with m = 0, 0.02, 0.04, and 0.05) supporting the
pair-breaking mechanism.

to be due to the presence of magnetic impurity in the superconducting
glass ceramics. With further decrease of temperature, the TEP increases
rapidly up to a maximum value around 60 K followed by a decrease to zero
value in the temperature range 20-58 K ( = T_(c₀)), depending on
concentration. This type of thermal variation of Seebeck coefficient (S)
indicates unusual thermal behavior of the carriers in these
superconductors.

The negative peak that appeared in the temperature variation of S (Fig.
6) becomes gradually suppressed with the increase of Fe content. This
behavior is, however, very similar to the
Cu_(1.8)Mo₆Se_(8 − y)Se_(y)-type Chevrel compounds [38] in which the
negative peak is suppressed with increase of Se content. Kaiser [39]
analyzed the TEP data of these Chevrel compounds by considering that the
negative peak is due to phonon drag. In these compounds as the residual
resistivity ratio ρ₀/${}_{\rm{PRT}}$ (ρ₀ is the residual resistivity,
the value just above T_(c), and $\rho_{\rm{RT}}$ is the room-temperature
resistivity) increases, the negative peak is suppressed. The increase of
ρ₀/$\rho_{\rm{RT}}$ means the reduction in phonon heat current and also
there is a reduction in momentum transferred to the electrons, i.e.,
phonon drag effect. Therefore, the negative peak in the present Fe-doped
samples is ascribed to be due to the phonon-drag effect. An enhancement
of thermoelectric power just above T_(c) is a precursor effect, a
feature related to the existence of superconducting fluctuations. Such a
feature is not peculiar to those oxide superconductors. It is found in
induced intermediate state low-T_(c) superconductors. [40]

## IV Conclusion

From the above discussion it is concluded that the superconducting
transition temperature of the Fe-doped (Bi,
Pb)₄Sr₃Ca₅Cu_(4 − x)Fe_(m)O_(x)-type GC superconductor (or BiFe-2212)
decreases proportionally with the increase of Fe content, which also
supports the pair-breaking mechanism. Samples with higher Fe content
(m ≅ 0.06) are no longer superconductors. Similar behavior has also been
recently observed in the Ni and Zn substituted single crystals of
Bi₂(SrCa)_(2+ n)(Cu_(1 − x)M_(x))_(1+ x) (M = Ni and Zn). [14] The
pair-breaking mechanism was also suggested (Ref. [20]) for the
substitution of M by Zn or Ni impurities in a 1:2:3 system such as
(Ca_(0.4)La_(0.6))(Ba_(1.35)La_(0.65))(Cu_(1 − x)M_(x))₃O_(y).

It has been shown in the literature [41] that there exists a universal
TEP curve that describes $S_{20\,{\rm K}}$ as a function of
T_(c)/$T_{c}^{\rm{max}}$ and makes the determination of the state of
doping of a given material quite easy. [41] Some cuprates including
Ca-La-Ba-Cu-O follow this universal curve. [42] However, when Ni and Zn
are introduced, one observes a strong departure from the universal TEP
curve and the pair-breaking mechanism was also suggested for this
system. [20] It was, however, pointed out by Goldschmidt _et al._, [20]
that this departure from the universal TEP curve will occur whenever
there exists pair breaking or interaction weakening which is supported
by the results of the present Fe-doped BiFe-2212 system where a
departure from the universal TEP curve is observed and the validity of
the pair-breaking mechanism is suggested.

From the thermoelectric power measurements, we observed both positive
and negative values of Seebeck coefficient S as in the case of other
Bi-based glass-ceramic superconductors. [22] The nonlinear thermal
variation of TEP in the Fe-doped glass-ceramic superconductors (Fig. 6)
can be explained by considering the phonon-drag effect. Exactly the same
behavior of TEP data was observed in the Cr- and Ti-doped GC
superconductor obtained from the Bi₂PbSr₃Ca₃Cu_(4 − m)M_(m)O_(x)
(M = Cr, Ti, m = 0 − 0.008) glass systems (unpublished). This behavior
is in contrast to that of the corresponding GC superconductor (Bi-2212)
obtained from the undoped Bi₂PbSr₃Ca₅Cu₄O_(x) glass. For this undoped
Bi-2212 superconductor, however, a two band model [41] was used [20] and
the phonon-drag effect could not be invoked. It seems that the negative
peak in the present Fe-doped samples is associated with phonon-drag
effect. However, from the resistivity data it is found that the VRH
mechanism takes part in the normal (semiconducting in nature) conduction
which apparently contradicts the phonon-drag effect (occurring in the
low-temperature metallic or semimetallic part). In a recent paper Isawa
_et al._[43] have shown that phonon drag and VRH may exist in TEP. The
one bit of supporting evidence of the phonon drag is that the peak falls
as the resistance ratio rises, a correlation which is based on metallic
resistance (a strongly degenerate gas of delocalized electrons). Other
evidence comes from the fact that the peak does not disappear in the
presence of magnetic field ( ∼ 0.87). Therefore, the peak is not of
magnetic origin. As far as VRH is concerned, it appears at the
semiconducting (not metallic) regime where the electrons are slightly
localized (due to the presence of some disorder and granular nature of
the materials). VRH has also been reported in many YBCO-type high-T_(c)
materials as referred to above. [5, 10, 29] Thus the presence of a very
small amount of magnetic impurity (Fe, Cr, or Ti partially substituting
Cu) plays a great role in modifying the behavior of the carriers in
BiFe-2212 superconductors where the phonon-drag effect could be
attributed. Since magnetic or nonmagnetic impurity suppresses T_(c) with
equal

Figure 6: (a) Nonlinear thermal variation of the thermoelectric power
(S) of the superconducting glass ceramics (obtained by annealing the
Bi₂PbSr₃Ca₅Cu_(4 − x)Fe_(m)O_(x) glasses at 840 °C for 40 h in air with
m = 0.02 (◼), m = 0.04 (○), m = 0.05 (▫) showing negative peak which
decreases with increase of Fe concentration indicating a phonon-drag
effect (Ref. [37]). (b) The inset curve is for the Fe-free
superconducting glass ceramics (obtained by annealing
Bi₂PbSr₃Ca₅Cu₄O_(x) glass at 840 °C for 24 h in air) showing no negative
peak unlike the corresponding Fe-doped glass ceramics [in Fig. 6(a)].

strength, the dominant scattering mechanism responsible for the
suppression of T_(c) arises due to the formation of impurity bonds such
as Cu-O-Fe, Fe-O-Fe, Ni-O-Cu, etc. (doped with magnetic ions); and
Zn-O-Cu, etc. (doped with nonmagnetic ions), in the superconductors.
These bonds also effects the thermal behavior of Seebeck coefficients.
Finally we would like to mention that these multicomponent oxides also
show complicated behavior. Not many studies have been done on such
interesting superconducting oxides. Further study in this direction
would be interesting.

## Acknowledgments

One of the authors (S.B.) is grateful to the Council of Scientific and
Industrial Research for financial support. The authors are also grateful
to many faculty members of the Chemistry and Materials Science
Departments who provided their facilities for XRD, DTA, SEM, Magnetic
susceptibility, Chemical analysis, etc., required for the
characterizations of the materials.

## References

* [1] T. E. Jones, P. M. Thibado, W. C. McGinnis, R. D. Boss, J. W.
Schindler, and S. Oseroff, Physica C **162-164**, 25 (1989). * [2] R. K.
Nkum, A. Punnett, and W. R. Datars, Physica C **202**, 371 (1992). * [3]
K. Uchinokura, T. Yabe, S. Takebayashi, M. Hase, and A. Maeda, Physica C
**162-164**, 981 (1989). * [4] O. Bremart, C. Michaelson, and H. U.
Krebs, Physica C **262-264**, 45 (1989). * [5] P. S. Prabhu and U. V.
Varadraju, Phys. Rev. B **53**, 14 637 (1996). * [6] K. Maki,
_Superconductivity_, edited by R. D. Marcell (Dekker, New York, 1969),
Vol. 2, p. 1035. * [7] T. J. Goodwin, H. B. Radousky, and R. N. Shelton,
Phys. Rev. B **56**, 5144 (1997). * [8] C. Uher and A. B. Kaiser, Phys.
Rev. B **37**, 127 (1988). * [9] A. Podder, P. Mandal, A. N. Das, B.
Ghosh, and P. Chaudhuri, Phys. Rev. B **44**, 2757 (1991). * [10] P.
Fournier, R. Gagnon, and M. Aubin, Physica C **177**, 15 (1991). * [11]
H. Taguchi, M. Nagao, and M. Shimada, J. Solid State Chem. **91**, 277
(1991). * [12] B. Jayaram, P. C. Lanchester, and M. T. Weller, Phys.
Rev. B **43**, 5444 (1991). * [13] D. S. Jeon, M. Akamatsu, H. Ikeda,
and R. Y. Shizaki, Physica C **253**, 102 (1995); B. Vom Hedt, W.
Lisseck, K. Westerholt, and H. Bach, Phys. Rev. B **49**, 9898 (1994). *
[14] Y. K. Kuo, C. W. Schneider, M. J. Skove, M. V. Nevitt, G. X.
Tessema, and J. J. McGee, Phys. Rev. B **56**, 6201 (1997); M. Yu and J.
Franck, _ibid._**53**, 8651 (1996). * [15] F. G. Aliev, V. Kovacik, S.
R. Li, V. V. Moshchalkov, N. N. Oleinikov, N. A. Samarin, J. Sebek, and
L. Sherbek, J. Magn. Magn. Mater. **90-91**, 641 (1990). * [16] A. A.
Abrikosov and I. P. Gor’kov, Sov. Phys. JETP **12**, 1243 (1961). * [17]
J. T. Markert, Y. Dalichaouch, and M. B. Maple, _Physical Properties of
High Temperature Superconductors_, edited by D. M. Ginsberg (World
Scientific, Singapore, 1989), Vol. 1, p. 266. * [18] R. C. Baker, W. H.
Hurng, and H. Steinfink, Appl. Phys. Lett. **54**, 371 (1989). * [19] H.
Zheng and J. D. Mackenzie, Phys. Rev. B **43**, 3048 (1991). * [20] D.
Goldschmidt, Y. Direktovitch, A. Knizhnik, and Y. Eckstein, Phys. Rev. B
**54**, 13 348 (1996). * [21] S. Mollah, K. K. Som, K. Bose, A. K.
Chakraborty, and B. K. Chaudhuri, Phys. Rev. B **46**, 11 075 (1992). *
[22] S. Chatterjee, S. Banerjee, S. Mollah, and B. K. Chaudhuri, Phys.
Rev. B **53**, 5942 (1996). * [23] N. F. Mott and E. A. Davis,
_Electronic Properties of Non-crystalline Materials_ (Oxford University
Press, Oxford, 1971). * [24] N. F. Mott, Philos. Mag. **19**, 835
(1969). * [25] M. A. Kastner, R. J. Birgeneau, C. Y. Chen, Y. M. Chiang,
D. R. Gabbe, H. P. Jenssen, T. Junk, C. J. Peters, P. J. Picone, Tineke
Thio, T. R. Thurston, and H. L. Tuller, Phys. Rev. B **37**, 111 (1988);
B. Fisher, G. Koren, J. Genossar, L. Patlagan, and E. L. Gartstein,
Physica C **176**, 75 (1991). * [26] B. Fisher, G. Koren, J. Genossar,
L. Patlagan, and E. L. Gartstein, Physica C **176**, 75 (1991). * [27]
Y. Xu and W. Guan, Physica C **206**, 59 (1993); **212**, 119 (1993). *
[28] Wu Jiang, P. L. Peng, J. J. Hamilton, and R. L. Greene, Phys. Rev.
B **49**, 690 (1994). * [29] T. Sugita, M. Yabuchi, K. Murase, H.
Okabayashi, K. Gase, and S. Namba, Solid State Commun. **67**, 9012
(1992). * [30] B. Ellman, H. M. Jaeger, D. P. Katz, T. F. Rosenbaum, A.
S. Cooper, and G. P. Espinosa, Phys. Rev. B **39**, 9012 (1989). * [31]
M. Z. Cieplak, S. Guha, H. Kojima, P. Lindenfeld, G. Xiao, J. Q. Xiao,
and C. L. Chien, Phys. Rev. B **46**, 5536 (1992). * [32] P. Sumana
Prabhu, M. S. Ramachandran Rao, and U. V. Varadaraju, Phys. Rev. B
**50**, 6929 (1994); B. Jayaram, P. C. Lancester, and M. T. Weller,
Physica C **159**, 2 (1989). * [33] P. Lunkenheimer, M. Resch, and A.
Loidl, Phys. Rev. Lett. **69**, 498 (1992). * [34] B. N. Zhu, X. Jiang,
H. Qi, H. Yu, X. Zeng, and G. Qiao, Philos. Mag. Lett. **56**, 271
(1987); P. Fournier, R. Gagnon, and M. Aubin, Physica C **177**, 39
(1991). * [35] C. H. Chung and J. D. Mackenzie, J. Non-Cryst. Solids
**42**, 357 (1980). * [36] K. Remsching, J. M. Tarascon, P. F. Miceli,
G. W. Hull, and W. R. McKinnon, Phys. Rev. B **43**, 5481 (1991). * [37]
L. Coffey and D. L. Cox, Phys. Rev. B **37**, 3389 (1988). * [38] V.
Vasudeva Rao, G. Rangarajan, and R. J. Srinivason, J. Phys. F **14**,
973 (1994). * [39] A. B. Kaiser, Phys. Rev. B **35**, 4677 (1987). *
[40] R. H. Dee and A. M. Guenault, Solid State Commun. **25**, 353
(1978). * [41] S. D. Obertelli, J. R. Cooper, and J. L. Tallon, Phys.
Rev. B **46**, 14 928 (1992). * [42] D. Goldschmidt, Y. Direktovitch, A.
Knizhnik, and Y. Eckstein, Phys. Rev. B **51**, 6739 (1995). * [43] K.
Isawa, Y. Yaegashi, M. Komatsu, M. Nagano, S. Sudo, M. Karppinen, and H.
Yamauchi, Phys. Rev. B **56**, 3457 (1997).
