# Superconductivity and non-Fermi-liquid behavior of Ce₂PdIn₈

V. H. Tran,¹ D. Kaczorowski,¹ R. T. Khan,² and E. Bauer²

¹Institute of Low Temperature and Structure Research, Polish Academy of
Sciences, P. O. Box 1410, PL-50-950 Wroclaw, Poland

²Institute of Solid State Physics, Vienna University of Technology,
A-1040 Wien, Austria

###### Abstract

The electrical resistivity of the heavy fermion superconductor Ce₂PdIn₈
was measured in magnetic fields up to 12 T and under hydrostatic
pressures up to 21 kbar. At zero field, the low-temperature electrical
resistivity in the normal state exhibits a power-law behavior
ρ₀ + AT^(n) with n < 2. In this non-Fermi-liquid regime, both the
superconducting temperature T_(c) and the coefficient A decrease with
increasing pressure, while the exponent n and the resistivity maximum at
$T_{\rm max}$ increase. The findings indicate a destabilization of the
superconducting state via increasing hybridization strength between the
4f and conduction electrons. In concert, enlargement of the f-band width
at the Fermi level results in a decrease of the density of states
N(E_(F)). Application of magnetic fields recovers the Fermi-liquid state
at H_(c2), at which both A and ρ₀ show a tendency to diverge. The data
obtained indicate that any change in the Kondo interaction strength in
Ce₂PdIn₈ by applied pressure or quenching spin fluctuations by external
magnetic fields results in pushing away the system from the
non-Fermi-liquid regime concomitantly with the destruction of the
superconducting state. These new results support a scenario in which the
superconductivity in Ce₂PdIn₈ is driven by antiferromagnetic spin
fluctuations in the vicinity of an underlying quantum critical point.

pacs: 10.1103/PhysRevB.83.064504 + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL REVIEW
B **83**, 064504 (2011)

## I Introduction

In metallic cerium compounds, the competition between the
Ruderman-Kittel-Kasuya-Yosida (RKKY) interaction and the Kondo effect is
usually assumed to be responsible for a variety of physical phenomena.
This concept was discussed a long time ago by Doniach,¹ in terms of the
function |J N(E_(F))|, where |J| is the magnitude of the magnetic
exchange interaction and N(E_(F)) is the electronic density of states at
the Fermi energy E_(F). When the RKKY interaction dominates over the
Kondo effect, real systems show magnetic order. In the opposite
situation, nonmagnetic ground states are found. Between these two
extreme situations, there exists a critical region, where exotic
phenomena such as a heavy fermion (HF) behavior, non-Fermi-liquid (nFL)
features, or a quantum critical point (QCP) are expected to occur.² ⁻ ⁴
Several experiments have proved that on approaching the critical region
from the magnetically ordered side, superconductivity may appear.⁵ ⁻ ⁸
This type of superconductivity is not very well understood because it
coexists with weak magnetism or situates near QCPs, suggesting new
pairing mechanisms, different from the BCS electron-phonon attraction.

Recently, the intermetallic compound Ce₂PdIn₈ was found to exhibit a
superconducting transition at T_(c) = 0.7 K.⁹ ⁻ ¹³ Measurements of the
bulk properties of polycrystalline and single-crystalline samples
yielded the upper critical field H_(c2)(0) ≈ 2.5 and 4.8 T,
respectively. Similarly, the Ginzburg-Landau coherence length was
estimated to be ξ ≈ 8.2 and 11.5 nm, respectively, and the magnetic
penetration depth λ ≈ 170 and 400 nm, respectively. A large ratio
l/ξ₀ ≈ 8-40 between the mean free path and the BCS coherence length
indicates that Ce₂PdIn₈ is a clean limit superconductor. Moreover, it
has been shown that unconventional superconductivity in this material is
closely associated with the HF properties. The Sommerfeld coefficient
measured at 0.3 K in a magnetic field of 5 T [i.e., larger than
H_(c2)(0)] is as large as 500 mJ/K² mol Ce, which yields an effective
mass of ∼200m₀. Interestingly, just above the onset of the
superconducting state the physical properties of Ce₂PdIn₈ are typical
for nFL systems. The compound shows a linear temperature dependence of
the electrical resistivity ρ(T) ∝ T and a logarithmic dependence of the
electronic specific heat C/T(T)∝ lnT in a wide temperature
range.^(9, 12) All these hitherto reported data suggested that Ce₂PdIn₈
is very similar to the structurally closely related compounds CeCoIn₅,
CeIrIn₈, and Ce₂CoIn₈.¹⁴ ⁻ ¹⁶ in which superconductivity is believed to
situear near a QCP. In order to clarify the relationship between
unconventional superconductivity and the nFL state associated with a
QCP, it is necessary to investigate the superconducting state and the
normal state in Ce₂PdIn₈ in more detail.

In this paper we report on the effect of applying hydrostatic pressure,
P, and magnetic fields, H, on the electrical resistivity of a
high-quality polycrystalline Ce₂PdIn₈ specimen. Both these external P
and H parameters were found to result in a decrease of T_(c) and in
driving the system away from the nFL state. We argue that pressure
increases J owing to an enhancement in the hybridization strength
between conduction electrons and f electrons, and simultaneously it
decreases N(E_(F)) owing to an enlargement of the f-band width at the
Fermi level. On the other hand, the application of magnetic fields
H < H_(c2) (for a given value of pressure) yields an enhancement of spin
fluctuations and thus leads to an increase of the quasiparticle
effective mass. In stronger fields (above H_(c2)), spin fluctuations
become suppressed and the low-temperature properties of the compound are
those of a Fermi liquid. Based on the obtained results we conclude that
superconductivity in Ce₂PdIn₈ is mediated by antiferromagnetic (AF) spin
fluctuations associated with an underlying QCP.

## II Experimental

A polycrystalline sample of Ce₂PdIn₈ was prepared by arc melting the
stoichiometric amounts of high-purity elemental components (Ce-3N, Ames
Laboratory, Pd-3N, Chempur and In-6N, Chempur). Details on the synthesis
were given in Ref. [12]. The quality of the product was proved by powder
x-ray diffraction and microprobe analysis. The derived lattice
parameters were nearly same as those reported previously.[12] No foreign
phases were found, in particular, CeIn₃ or metallic In. Moreover, the
high quality of the studied sample was approved by a rather large value
of the residual resistivity ratio RRR = 12, notably larger that those
reported for single crystals.[9, 13]

The electrical resistivity under pressure up to 21 kbar was measured in
the temperature range 0.3-250 K. The measurements were performed with a
four-point ac bridge technique and a current of 1 mA. Hydrostatic
pressure was generated by a piston cylinder cell using Daphne oil as a
pressure-transmitting medium. In all the measurements, pressure was
fixed at room temperature and the data were taken on cooling the
specimen with a rate of 0.5 K/min. High-quality Pb was used as a
pressure indicator; its superconducting transition width was less than
30 mK. At selected pressures, transverse magnetoresistance measurements
were performed in magnetic fields up to 12 T using a ³He cryostat
equipped with a Cryogenics LTD magnet.

## III Results and discussion

The temperature dependencies of the electrical resistivity of Ce₂PdIn₈
as measured under various pressures are shown in Fig. 1. Upon
application of pressure, the room temperature resistivity (RTR)
initially jumps to a higher value and then its magnitude varies linearly
with a rate 0.37 μΩ cm/kbar. The behavior observed at 4.5 kbar is likely
mainly owing to electrical contact sliding inside the pressure cell, yet
some contribution owing to grain boundaries and other crystal defects is
also possible. Remarkably, a very similar pressure response was observed
for CeCoIn₅, where after an initial jump, the RTR also follows a linear
P dependence with a rate of ≈0.4 μΩ cm/kbar.[17] The linear slope of
RTR(P) revealed for the two indices is rather small [it may be compared,
e.g., with those reported for CeCu₂Si₂ (2.8 μΩ cm/kbar) (Ref. [18]) and
CePtSi (1.6 μΩ cm/kbar) (Ref. [19]), which indicates that in both
compounds the phonon contribution to the resistivity is hardly affected
by pressure.

An inspection of the ρ(T, P) curves shows that the data taken at 1 bar
are very similar to those previously reported for ambient pressure.[12]
It exhibits a maximum at $T_{\rm max}$, which is a feature
characteristic of an interplay between Kondo and crystalline
electric-field interactions. Above $T_{\rm max}$, ρ(T) varies as −ln T
owing to incoherent Kondo scattering of the conduction electrons, while
below $T_{\rm max}$ a rapid decrease of the resistivity with decreasing
temperature occurs owing to the onset of coherent scattering of the
conduction electrons from Kondo centers arranged periodically in the
crystal lattice. In order to determine precisely the values of
$T_{\rm max}$ at different pressures, the phonon contribution should be
subtracted from the measured resistivity. Assuming that the
high-temperature phonon scattering is given by
$\rho_{\rm ph}=c_{\rm ph}T$ and the incoherent Kondo scattering follows
the function ρ_(K) = −c_(K)ln T, the high-temperature resistivity data
can be described by

$$\rho(T)=\rho_{0}+\rho_{\infty}+\rho_{\rm ph}+\rho_{K},$$
(1)

where ρ₀ and ρ_(∞) are the resistivity terms owing to scattering the
conduction electrons on static defects in the crystal lattice and on
disordered magnetic moments, respectively. As an example, a
least-squares fit of Eq. (1) to the experimental data taken at 1 bar is
depicted in Fig. 1 by the solid line. A similarly good description of
the high-temperature resistivity in terms of Eq. (1) was obtained for
the other pressures, hence supporting the presence of the Kondo
interaction in the compound studied. Shown in the inset to Fig. 1 is the
nonphononic contribution to the resistivity ρ(T)-$\rho_{\rm ph}$.
Apparently, with increasing pressure the $T_{\rm max}$ value
systematically shifts to higher temperatures. In the pressure range
studied, $T_{\rm max}$ is ∼25 K at 1 bar and increases linearly with a
rate $dT_{\rm max}/dP=1.8$ K/kbar, reaching ∼62 K at 21 kbar [see Fig.
2(a)]. This behavior is similar to that reported for the CeTeIn₅
superconductors, which also exhibit a maximum in ρ(T).[16, 17, 20, 21]
For example, in CeCoIn₅$T_{\rm max}\approx 50$ K (ambient pressure)
changes with a rate of ∼2.8 K/kbar.[17] In turn, in CeRhIn₅,
$T_{\rm max}\approx 23.5$ K was observed at 13.5 kbar, and for higher
pressures this maximum shifts to higher temperatures with the rate
$dT_{\rm max}/dP=1$ K/kbar.[20] For all these compounds, $T_{\rm max}$
corresponds to the coherence temperature $T_{\rm coh}$.[22] An increase
of $T_{\rm coh}$ upon applying pressure is naturally expected in cerium
compounds because pressure leads to an enhancement of the hybridization
between the conduction electrons and the f electrons (represented by J),
and simultaneously results in an enlargement of the f-band width. The
latter causes a reduction of the density of states at the Fermi level
N(E_(F)). Thus, it seems fully justified presuming that a very similar
pressure response occurs in the closely related middle Ce₂PdIn₈.

Application of hydrostatic pressure remarkably influences the position
of $T_{\rm max}$ but causes a rather weak change in the Kondo term
represented by the resistivity slope c_(K) = −dρ(T)/dln T [see Fig.
2(b)]. Within the model developed by Cornut and Coqblin,[23] the
parameter c_(K) characterizes the Kondo interaction strength and depends
on |J³N(E_(F))²|. The decrease of the parameter c_(K) indicates that
|J³N(E_(F))²| decreases with pressure. Considering the pressure
dependence of $T_{\rm max}$ and c_(K), one may conclude that N(E_(F))
strongly diminishes with increasing pressure.

Figure 1: (Color online) Electrical resistivity of Ce₂PdIn₈ as a
function of temperature under several hydrostatic pressures up to 21
kbar. The solid line is a fit of the data to Eq. (1). The inset
represents the resistivity at approximately $T_{\rm max}$.

The pressure dependence of the superconducting transition in Ce₂PdIn₈ is
shown in Fig. 2(c). At 1 bar T_(c) is equal to 0.7 K, in agreement with
the previous report,[9; 12] and decreases with increasing pressure. For
pressures higher than 16 kbar, the onset of superconductivity is not
observed anymore above 0.35 K. A rough extrapolation of the T_(c) data
suggests that superconductivity vanishes at P ∼ 21 kbar. It is
worthwhile noting that the pressure dependence of T_(c) in Ce₂PdIn₈
remarkably differs from those of CeCoIn₈ and CeRhIn₅. For the latter
compounds, a superconducting dome in the T-P phase diagram was observed,
in which T_(c) achieves its maximum value at a critical pressure P^(*)
of ∼13 kbar (Ref. [24]) and 23 kbar,[25] respectively. It was also shown
that P^(*) separates two distinct regimes, namely, (i) nFL
characteristics up to P^(*) and (ii) Fermi-liquid-like properties above
P^(*).[24] In the case of Ce₂PdIn₈, as discussed below, the Fermi-liquid
state has not been observed in the pressure range studied, and
superconductivity develops only from the nFL state.

Figure 3 displays the low-temperature electrical resistivity of
Ce₂PdIn₈. Remarkably, the resistivity measured just above T_(c) shows no
T²-dependence characteristic of the Fermi-liquid state. Instead, ρ(T)
exhibits a power-law T^(n) dependence with n < 2, which is usually
considered as a fingerprint of a nFL state. A possible origin of this
behavior is scattering of conduction electrons on two-dimensional
antiferromagnetic quantum fluctuations.[26] Results of least-squares
fits of ρ(T) = ρ₀ + AT^(n) in the temperature range T_(c) − 5 K are
shown in Fig. 3 as solid lines. Values of the residual resistivity ρ₀,
the exponent n, and the coefficient A are presented in Fig. 4. For the
pressure range studied, n was found to increase from 1 at ambient
pressure to 1.3 at 21 kbar. Previously, similar power-law exponents were
found in magnetic heavy-fermion systems, tuned by pressure to
superconductivity,[5] in CeTIn₈ compounds[27] and in high-T_(c)
cuprates.[28] Remarkably, both n and ρ₀ start to increase at P ∼ 21
kbar, coinciding with the suppression of superconductivity near this
value of pressure [cf. Fig. 2(c)]. This hints to a superconducting state
in Ce₂PdIn₈ being directly related to a quantum critical behavior.

As is apparent from Fig. 4, the coefficient A rapidly decreases with
increasing pressure, from 4.7 μΩ cm/K at 1 bar down to 0.6 μΩ cm/K^(1.3)
at 21 kbar. In a number of heavy-fermion compounds, the prefactor A in
ρ(T) = ρ₀ + AT² is

Figure 4: (Color online) Pressure dependencies of the exponent n
(left-hand scale), the residual resistivity ρ₀ (right-hand scale), and
the resistivity prefactor A (bottom). The dashed lines serve as a guide
to the eye. The inset shows the relationship between A⁻¹ and
$T_{\rm max}$. The data of CeCoIn₈ are taken from Refs. [17; 24]. The
solid lines emphasize a linear dependence of ln(A⁻¹) vs $T_{\rm max}$.

Figure 3: (Color online) The electrical resistivity under pressures near
the superconducting transition. The solid lines represent the fits of
the equation ρ(T) = ρ₀ + AT^(n).

proportional to the square of the electronic specific heat γ (A ∝ γ²)
and it is also proportional to the inverse of the square of Kondo
temperature (A ∝ T_(K)⁻²).[29] For nFL systems, no similar relationships
between A, γ, and T_(K) have been worked out yet. Nevertheless, the
experimental data derived for CeCoIn₅ seem to indicate a proportionality
between A and γ derived in the nFL regime.[24] A similar relationship
likely holds for Ce₂PdIn₈ for which a clear reduction of N(E_(F)) with
increasing pressure was observed (see above). In the inset to Fig. 4,
the values of A⁻¹ are plotted as a function of $T_{\rm max}$ determined
from the high-temperature resistivity data. Clearly, a proportionality
$\ln(A^{-1})\sim T_{\rm max}$ is observed for the entire pressure range
studied. Moreover, a similar relationship is observed also for CeCoIn₅.
It seems quite remarkable that the coefficient A in both nFL compounds
correlates with $T_{\rm max}$, which can be associated with the
coherence temperature $T_{\rm coh}$ (see above), rather than showing any
straight correlation with T_(K) that is a single-ion Kondo temperature
in Fermi-liquid systems. This unique type of scaling should be tested
for other nFL systems.

For several hydrostatic pressures, the electrical resistivity of
Ce₂PdIn₈ was measured in magnetic fields up to 12 T, and applied
perpendicular to the electrical current (transverse magnetoresistance).
As an example, Fig. 5 presents the data collected at 1 bar; similar
results were obtained at higher pressures. The resistivity maximum at
$T_{\rm max}$ was found to be hardly field dependent for fields μ₀H < 3
T. However, above 3 T the maximum in ρ(T) shifts toward lower
temperatures with increasing field strength [see Fig. 5(a)]. This
behavior can be rationalized as suppression of spin fluctuations by the
magnetic field, which manifests itself in a gradual reduction of the
coherence temperature $T_{\rm coh}\approx T_{\rm max}$. When comparing
the normal-state resistivity of Ce₂PdIn₈ measured in fields above [Fig.
5(b)] and below [Fig. 5(c)] μ₀H_(c2) ≈ 2.5 T, one recognizes a drastic
change in the slope dρ(T)/dT when the applied field is tuned through
H_(c2). Below H_(c2), the normal-state resistivity can only be
represented by the aforementioned nFL function ρ(T) = ρ₀ + AT. In
contrast, ρ(T) measured in fields above H_(c2) can be described by the
power law ρ ∼ AT² in the temperature range $0.3-T_{\rm FL}$, where
$T_{\rm FL}$ increases with rising field strength. The observation of a
T² dependence of the resistivity indicates that the Fermi-liquid ground
state in Ce₂PdIn₈ is recovered by application of strong enough magnetic
fields. Figure 6 summarizes the field-dependent values of n, A, and ρ₀.
Apparently, all these parameters exhibit anomalies near H_(c2), namely,
n jumps to n = 2, A shows a maximum, while ρ₀(H) goes through a minimum.
All these findings corroborate the scenario of AF spin fluctuations
associated with a QCP, which govern the behavior of Ce₂PdIn₈ close to
H_(c2). Below the critical field, spin fluctuations become enhanced on
approaching the AF QCP, whereas above H_(c2) they are gradually
suppressed by field.

The magnetic-field and hydrostatic pressure dependencies of T_(c) and
$T_{\rm FL}$ allow constructing a P-H-T phase diagram shown in Fig. 7.
At 1 bar, the upper critical field H_(c2)(0), taken as the value
extrapolated to zero temperature, is ∼2.5 T. The initial slope of the
upper critical field at T_(c), −μ₀dH_(c2)/dT, amounts to 16(1) T/K. The
coherence length can be estimated as ξ ≈ 10.5 nm by using the relation
H_(c2) = Φ₀/2πξ², where Φ₀ is a quantum flux. Similarly, from the data
measured at 4.5 kbar, one obtains the characteristic superconducting

Figure 5: (Color online) Temperature variations of the electrical
resistivity of Ce₂PdIn₈ measured at ambient pressure in various applied
magnetic fields. (a) The data around the resistivity maximum at
$T_{\rm max}$ (denoted by the arrows). (b) Low-temperature data taken in
H > H_(c2). The solid lines indicate a AT² dependence below the
Fermi-liquid temperature $T_{\rm FL}$ (denoted by the arrow). (c)
Low-temperature data taken in H < H_(c2).

Figure 6: (Color online) Field dependencies of the exponent n, the
coefficient A, and the residual resistivity ρ₀ obtained from the fits of
the equation ρ(T) = ρ₀ + AT^(*) to the low-temperature resistivity data.

parameters, μ₀H_(c2) = 2.2 T, −dμ₀H_(c2)/dT = 15(1) T/K, and ξ ≈ 12.2
nm, while those derived from the the 9(1) kbar data are μ₀H_(c2) = 1.8
T, −dμ₀H_(c2)/dT = 9.5 T/K and ξ ≈ 13.5 nm. In terms of clean
superconductors,[30; 31] the initial slope is related to the effective
mass of the superconducting carriers as −d H_(c2)/dT ∝ (m^(*))²T_(c).
Hence, the observed change in the values of −dH_(c2)/dT with increasing
pressure indicates that m^(*) is likely at its maximum at pressures
below 4.5 kbar.

Finally, we should emphasize that there exists a distinct difference in
the values of μ₀H_(c2) obtained for single-crystalline[9] and
polycrystalline samples of Ce₂PdIn₈. This is an indication of strongly
anisotropic properties of the investigated compound. For that reason the
absolute values of the transport coefficients (e.g., A, c_(K), ρ₀)
derived from the data obtained on polycrystalline material must be taken
with appropriate caution. However, the pressure and magnetic-field
dependencies of these quantities, demonstrated in this work, are
believed to represent the actual behavior of the compound studied.

## IV Summary

The temperature-dependent electrical resistivity of a good-quality
polycrystalline sample Ce₂PdIn₈ obtained in magnetic fields up to 12 T
and under hydrostatic pressures up to 21 kbar indicate that
heavy-fermion superconductivity in this compound emerges from a nFL
normal state. Application of pressure and/or sufficiently strong
magnetic fields results in a suppression of superconductivity and
simultaneously pushes the system away from the nFL state. In the
pressure range available there is no evidence of a Fermi-liquid behavior
nor of any long-range magnetic ordering. A Fermi-liquid state, however,
is recovered in magnetic fields above the critical field μ₀H_(c2), which
seems to be a quantum critical point. The pressure and field
dependencies of the resistivity suggest that superconductivity in
Ce₂PdIn₈ is likely mediated by the AF spin fluctuations in the very
proximity of an avoided quantum critical phase transition.

###### Acknowledgements.

The authors are grateful to Dr. Daniel Gnida for his assistance in
preparing the specimens for resistivity measurements. The work by D.K.
was supported by Ministry of Science and Higher Education (Poland) under
research Grant No. N N202 130739. Two of us (R.T.K. and E.B.) were
supported by the Austrian FWF, P22295.

## References

* [1] S. Doniach, Physica B **91**, 231 (1977). * [2] A. J. Millis,
Phys. Rev. B **48**, 7183 (1993). * [3] T. Moriya and T. Takimoto, J.
Phys. Soc. Jpn. **64**, 960 (1995). * [4] E. Miranda, V. Dobrosavljevic,
and G. Kotlia, J. Phys. Condens. Matter **8**, 9871 (1996). * [5] N. D.
Mathur, F. M. Grosche, S. R. Julian, I. R. Walker, D. M. Freye, R. K. W.
Haselwimmer, and G. G. Lonzarich, Nature (London) **394**, 39 (1998). *
[6] S. Kawasaki, T. Mito, G.-q. Zheng, C. Thessieu, Y. Kawasaki, K.
Ishida, Y. Kitaoka, T. Muramatsu, T. C. Kobayashi, D. Aoki, S. Araki, Y.
Haga, R. Settai, and Y. Onuki, Phys. Rev. B **65**, 020504(R) (2001). *
[7] G. Knebel, M.-A. Measson, B. Salce, D. Aoki, D. Braithwaite, J. P.
Brison, and J. Flouquet, J. Phys. Condens. Matter **16**, 8905 (2004). *
[8] T. Park, F. Ronning, H. Q. Yuan, M. B. Salamon, R. Movshovich, J. L.
Sarrao, and J. D. Thompson, Nature (London) **440**, 65 (2006). * [9] D.
Kaczorowski, A. P. Pikul, D. Gnida, and V. H. Tran, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**103**, 027003 (2009). * [10] K. Uhlifova, J. Prokleska, and V.
Sechovsky, Phys. Rev. Lett. **104**, 059701 (2010). * [11] D.
Kaczorowski, A. P. Pikul, D. Gnida, and V. H. Tran, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**104**, 059702 (2010). * [12] D. Kaczorowski, D. Gnida, A. P. Pikul,
and V. H. Tran, Solid State Commun. **150**, 411 (2010). * [13] K.
Uhlifova, J. Prokleska, V. Sechovsky, and S. Danis, Internatell’s
**18**, 2025 (2010). * [14] C. Petrovic, P. G. Pagliuso, M. F. Hundley,
R. Movshovich, J. L. Sarrao, J. D. Thompson, Z. Fisk, and P. Monthoux,
J. Phys. Condens. Matter **13**, L337 (2001). * [15] G. Chen, S. Ohara,
M. Hedo, Y. Uwatoko, K. Saito, M. Sorai, and I. Sakamoto, J. Phys. Soc.
Jpn. **71**, 2836 (2002). * [16] C. Petrovic, R. Movshovich, M. Jaime,
P. G. Pagliuso, M. F. Hundley, J. L. Sarrao, Z. Fisk, and J. D.
Thompson, Europhys. Lett. **53**, 354 (2001). * [17] M. Nicklas, R.
Borth, E. Lengyel, P. G. Pagliuso, J. L. Sarrao, V. A. Sidorov, G.
Sparn, F. Steglich, and J. D. Thompson, J. Phys. Condens. Matter **13**,
L905 (2001). * [18] B. Bellarbi, A. Benoit, D. Jaccard, J. M. Mignot,
and H. F. Braun, Phys. Rev. B **30**, 1182 (1984). * [19] H. D. Yang and
W. H. Lee, Phys. Rev. B **43**, 3664 (1991). * [20] H. Hegger, C.
Petrovic, E. G. Moshopoulou, M. F. Hundley, J. L. Sarrao, Z. Fisk, and
J. D. Thompson, Phys. Rev. Lett. **84**, 4986 (2000).

Figure 7: (Color online) _T-P-H_ phase diagram of a polycrystalline
Ce₂PdIn₈. The closed circles denote T_(c), the squares represent
$T_{\rm FL}$, and the open circles stand for H_(c2). The dashed and
dotted lines serve as a guide for the eye. The solid curve is a
hypothetical QCP line.

* (21) H. Shishido, R. Settai, D. Aoki, S. Ikeda, H. Nakawaki, N.
Nakamura, T. Iizuka, Y. Inada, K. Sugiyama, T. Takeuchi, K. Kindo, T. C.
Kobayashi, Y. Haga, H. Harima, Y. Aoki, T. Namiki, H. Sato, and Y.
Onuki, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **71**, 162 (2002). * (22) Y. Nakajima, H.
Shishido, H. Nakai, T. Shibauchi, K. Behnia, K. Izawa, M. Hedo, Y.
Uwatoko, T. Matsumoto, R. Settai, U. Onuki, H. Kontani, and Y. Matsuda,
J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **76**, 024703 (2007). * (23) B. Cornut and B.
Coqblin, Phys. Rev. B **5**, 4541 (1972). * (24) V. A. Sidorov, M.
Nicklas, P. G. Pagliuso, J. L. Sarrao, Y. Bang, A. V. Balatsky, and J.
D. Thompson, Phys. Rev. Lett. **89**, 157004 (2002). * (25) T.
Muramatsu, N. Tateiwa, T. C. Kobayashi, K. Shimizu, K. Amaya, D. Aoki,
H. Shishido, Y. Haga, and Y. Onuki, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **70**, 3362
(2001). * (26) S. Sachdev, _Quantum Phase Transitions_ (Cambridge
University Press, Cambridge, UK, 1999). * (27) J. D. Thompsona, M.
Nicklas, A. Bianchi, R. Movshovich, A. Llobet, W. Bao, A. Malinowski, M.
F. Hundley, N. O. Moreno, P. G. Pagliuso, J. L. Sarrao, S. Nakatsuji, Z.
Fisk, R. Borth, E. Lengyel, N. Oeschler, G. Sparn, and F. Steglich,
Physica B **329-333**, 446 (2003). * (28) H. Takagi, B. Batlogg, H. L.
Kao, J. Kwo, R. J. Cava, J. J. Krajewski, W. F. Peck Jr., Phys. Rev.
Lett. **69**, 2975 (1992). * (29) A. C. Hewson, _The Kondo Problem to
Heavy Fermions_ (Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, UK, 1993). *
(30) N. Werthamer, E. Helfand, and P. Hohenberg, Phys. Rev. **147**, 295
(1966) * (31) L. N. Bulaevskii, O. V. Dolgov, and M. O. Putsyn, Phys.
Rev. B **38**, 11290 (1988).
