# Temperature dependence and anisotropy of the bulk upper critical field
H_(c2) of MgB₂

A. V. Sologubenko, J. Jun, S. M. Kazakov, J. Karpinski, and H. R. Ott

Laboratorium fur Festkorperphysik, ETH Honggerberg, CH-8093 Zurich,
Switzerland

Received 8 March 2002; published 26 April 2002

###### Abstract

The bulk upper critical field H_(c2)(T) of superconducting MgB₂ and its
anisotropy are established by analyzing experimental data on the
temperature and magnetic-field dependences of the ab-plane thermal
conductivity of a single-crystalline sample in external magnetic fields
oriented both parallel (H_(c2)) and perpendicular (H_(c2)^(ab)) to the c
axis of the hexagonal lattice. From numerical fits we deduce the
anisotropy ratio γ₀ = H_(c2)^(ab)(0)/H_(c2)^(c)(0) = 4.2 at T = 0 K.
Both the values and the temperature dependences of H_(c2)^(c) and
H_(c2)^(ab) are distinctly different from previous claims based on
measurements of the electrical resistivity.

pacs: 74.70.−b, 74.25.Fy, 74.60.Ec + Footnote †: preprint: APS/123-QED

Since the recent discovery of superconductivity in MgB₂ at a critical
temperature T_(c) = 40 K,[1] a large number of experimental results on
different properties of this compound have been reported in the
literature. Most experiments were made using powder or polycrystalline
samples. The hexagonal crystal structure of MgB₂, however, is expected
to cause pronounced anisotropies in the electrical and magnetic
properties, which can unambiguously be probed only by experiments using
single crystals. In particular, the upper critical field H_(c2)(T) is an
important parameter for characterizing the superconducting state of
type-II superconductors.[2, 3, 4] For anisotropic materials, such as
hexagonal MgB₂, the values of H_(c2) may vary considerably for different
orientations of the external magnetic field H. Choosing the field
directions either perpendicular or parallel to the c axis, the
anisotropy may be expressed by a parameter γ = H_(c2)^(ab)/H_(c2)^(c) ,
which, in the most general case, may be temperature dependent. Earlier
experimental results, mainly based on measurements of the electrical
resistivity ρ(T, H), have resulted in a broad range of values of γ and
of extrapolated zero-temperature values of H_(c2)^(c)(0) and
H_(c2)^(ab)(0) (for a review, see Ref. [5]). Most of these experiments,
also on single crystals,[6, 7, 8] indicate a positive curvature of
H_(c2)(T) in a wide range of temperature below T_(c) and
correspondingly, rather high critical fields at T = 0. Attempts to
explain these features have led to theoretical work suggesting the
existence of some soft bosonic modes[2] and even unconventional
mechanisms of superconductivity have been considered.[9]

In this paper we present an evaluation of H_(c2)^(c)(T) and
H_(c2)^(ab)(T) of single-crystalline MgB₂, based on measurements of the
thermal conductivity κ(H, T). Complementary results of ρ(T, H), obtained
on the same single-crystalline sample, indicate that electrical
transport measurements are not well suited to probe the bulk upper
critical field H_(c2)(T) of MgB₂. Inspecting the temperature dependences
of both H_(c2)^(c)(T) and H_(c2)^(ab)(T) close to T_(c) , our results
indicate that even the zero-field critical temperature T_(c)(0) of the
bulk may be lower than commonly believed up to now. This indicates that,
in relation to superconductivity of MgB₂, surface effects must be
considered.

The thermal conductivity was measured in the basal plane of hexagonal
MgB₂ exposed to varying magnetic fields H, oriented parallel and
perpendicular to the basal ab plane with small misalignments of 3.5 ±
0.5^(∘) between the field directions and the orientation of the plane. A
standard uniaxial heat-flow method, as described in Ref. [10], was used
for the κ(H, T) measurements. The temperature difference between the two
thermometers was about 1

Low-temperature ρ(T) curves measured in constant external magnetic
fields H are presented in Fig. 1 for T<50 K. The zero-field resistive
superconducting transition at T_(c) = 38.1 K is rather narrow (ΔT_(c)∼
0.15 K), but the application of magnetic fields broadens the transition
considerably. If the field dependence of the onset of the resistive
transition, as illustrated in Fig. 1 for H = 50 kOe, is plotted in an
[H, T] diagram, the curve denoted as H_(ρ)^(c) in Fig. 4 is obtained.
These H_(ρ)^(c) data are qualitatively and quantitatively very similar
to results previously obtained on single crystals.[6, 7, 8] in
particular, with respect to the positive curvature of H_(ρ)^(c)(T). In
these earlier works H_(ρ)^(c)(T) was associated with H_(c2)^(c)(T).

Figure 1: The low-temperature electrical resistivity of MgB₂ and its
magnetic-field dependence for a current in the ab plane. The broken
lines for H = 50 kOe indicate how the onset of the resistive transition
defining H_(ρ)^(c) has been established.

The H dependence of the thermal conductivity was measured at selected
constant temperatures in the range between 2 and 50 K and in fields up
to 60 kOe. Representative κ(H) curves at selected temperatures are
displayed in Figs. 2 and 3 for H∥c and H∥ab, respectively. As
demonstrated in the inset of Fig. 2, a hysteretic behavior of κ(H),
caused by vortex pinning, is observed in the low-field regime for H∥c.
In order to avoid ambiguities, each new field setting at a constant
temperature was achieved by heating the sample to the normal state above
50 K, and subsequently cooling it to the set temperature in the chosen
field. In this way, a smooth variation of κ(H), as demonstrated by the
open circles in the inset of Fig. 2, was obtained. The field values
$H_{\rm irr}^{\kappa}$, below which the irreversibility is discernible,
are rather low. For T = 4.03 K, e.g., $H_{\rm irr}^{\kappa}$∼ 0.7 kOe.
At elevated temperatures and for H∥ab the irreversibilities are reduced,
as demonstrated in the inset of Fig. 3.

The curves presented in Figs. 2 and 3 reveal the general features
observed at all temperatures below 38.1 K. Starting at H = 0, κ drops
with a steep slope and, after passing through a minimum, increases again
until a region of very weak field dependence above some critical field,
denoted as H_(κ) is reached. It is remarkable that, for each
temperature, H_(κ)^(κ) is distinctly lower than H_(ρ)^(c) and that no
distinct feature of κ(H) is observed in the region of H_(ρ)^(c). This is
explicitly demonstrated in Fig. 2. With increasing temperature, H_(κ)
decreases towards zero as T approaches T_(c) . This general κ(H) feature
is typical of type-II superconductors and can be explained as
follows.[12] The thermal conductivity of a superconductor is due to
itinerant electrons (κ_(e)) and phonons ($\kappa_{\rm ph}$). Enhancing H
from zero eventually causes the formation of vortices in the bulk of a
type-II superconductor. After zero-field cooling, the first vortices
form at the lower critical field H_(c1). Consequently, some additional
scattering of phonons by normal electrons in the cores of the vortices
will reduce $\kappa_{\rm ph}$. With further increase in the field the
decrease of $\kappa_{\rm ph}$ is compensated by an enhancement of κ_(e)
. Above H_(c2), in the normal state, the field dependence of both
$\kappa_{\rm ph}$ and κ_(e) is expected to be weak. The overall behavior
of the κ(H) curves shown in Figs. 2 and 3 reflects these expectations,
and as may be seen, κ(H) is virtually field independent for H>H_(κ).

A more complete analysis of the κ(H) data will be presented in a
forthcoming paper.[13] Here, we concentrate on the opportunity that
these data allow for a reliable evaluation of the bulk upper critical
field H_(c2)(T), which obviously coincides with H_(κ)(T) as derived from
our κ(H) curves for both field orientations. It may be seen that
H_(c2)^(c)(T) = H_(κ)^(c)(T) is distinctly different from H_(ρ)^(c)(T).
The solid line in Fig. 4, representing a general prediction for
H_(c2)(T) of a conventional type-II superconductor in the case where the
coherence length ξ and the electron mean free path l are of similar
magnitude,[14] is in fair agreement with the measured H_(c2)^(c)(T). It
is obvious that H_(ρ)^(c)(T) does not follow the same general T
dependence. Since thermal conductivity experiments probe the bulk of the
sample, it is H_(κ)^(c)(T) rather than H_(ρ)^(c)(T) that ought to be
identified as the upper critical field H_(c2)^(c)(T). Re

Figure 3: The magnetic-field dependence of the thermal conductivity κ(H)
for H⊥c at T = 28.2 and 31.3 K. The solid vertical arrows mark
H_(κ)^(ab) , set equal to the upper critical field H_(κ)^(c0). The inset
demonstrates the small hysteresis of κ(H) at low fields for T = 28.2 K.

Figure 2: The magnetic-field dependence of the thermal conductivity κ(H)
for H∥c at T = 4.03, 7.93, and 20.5 K. The solid vertical arrows mark
H_(κ)^(c) , set equal to the upper critical field H_(c2)^(c). The dotted
vertical arrow denotes H_(ρ)^(c) (see Fig. 1). The inset demonstrates
the irreversible behavior of κ(H) below $H_{\rm irr}^{\kappa}$ for T =
4.03 K.

cent magnetization measurements [15] on single crystals of MgB₂ using a
torque magnetometer result in values and a temperature dependence of
H_(c2)^(c)(T) consistent with our H_(κ)^(c)(T) and thus support our
conclusion. Employing the equation given by anisotropic Ginzburg-Landau
theory H_(c2)(θ) = [(sin θH_(c2)^(c))² + (cos θH_(c2)^(ab))²)^(−1/2),
where θ is the angle between the magnetic field and the ab plane, [16]
we estimate the errors in calculating H_(c2) caused by the
above-mentioned misalignment of 3.5± 0.5^(∘) to be about 3 ± 1

As displayed in Fig. 4, at temperatures above about 27 K, H_(c2)^(c)
varies linearly with temperature with a slope dH_(c2)^(c) / dT = − 1.17
kOe/K. This behavior leads to an extrapolated zero-field
T_(c)^(′) = 36.6 K, 1.5 K below T_(c) obtained from ρ(T, 0). Using the
equations that are given by the Ginzburg-Landau theory considering
anisotropies, [16]ξ_(ab)(T) = [Φ₀/2πH_(c2)^(c)(T)]^(1/2) and
ξ_(ab)(T) = 0.74(1 − T/T_(c))^(−1/2)ξ_(ab, 0), where ξ_(ab) is the
coherence length in the basal ab plane, we obtain the zero-temperature
value of ξ_(ab, 0) = 11.8 nm.

Turning to the temperature dependence of the critical field
H_(c2)^(ab)(T) for H_(c1)  c, we again note a sizable temperature
interval where H_(c2)^(ab)(T) varies linearly with T. This is emphasized
by the dotted line in Fig. 4. The slope dH_(c2)^(ab)/dT =  − 5.15 kOe/K
gives $\langle\overline{\xi_{ab,0}}\xi_{c,0}\!\rangle\!=\!5.75$ nm and
therefore, the zero-temperature value of the c-axis correlation length
ξ_(c, 0) = 2.8 nm. Another important parameter that can be estimated
from our κ(H) data is the lower critical field H_(c1)^(ab), as
demonstrated in the inset of Fig. 3. In the temperature region between
28 and 35 K, where an evaluation of H_(c1)^(ab) with reasonable accuracy
of about ± 10

As may be seen in Fig. 4, above approximately 33 K, H_(c2)^(ab)(T)
deviates from the linear in T variation and, with increasing
temperature, approaches zero also at T_(c)^(′) defined above. This is
reflected in the temperature dependence of the anisotropy ratio γ, which
seems to decrease with T approaching T_(c)^(′). The positive curvature
of H_(c2)(T) is typical of strongly anisotropic, layered superconductors
[17] and has often been explained in terms of the Lawrence-Doniach
model, [18] which treats a layered superconductor as a stacked array of
weakly coupled two-dimensional superconducting sheets. Various other
theoretical models have been proposed to explain this feature (for a
critical review see, e.g., Ref. [19]). At this point we cannot commit
ourselves to any of these models. It is important, however, that the
anomaly is absent for H∥c and small and restricted to a rather narrow
temperature region for H⊥c. At lower temperatures, with decreasing
temperature the anisotropy ratio γ(T) tends to a constant value and is
approaching
γ₀ = H_(c2)^(ab)(0)/H_(c2)^(c)(0) = ξ_(ab, 0)/ξ_(c, 0) = 4.2.

The extrapolation to zero temperature gives H_(c2)^(c)(0) ≈ 31 kOe, a
considerably lower value than is typically claimed for MgB₂. [5]
Exceptions are the reports of Refs. [20] and [21]. The rather low value
of H_(c2)^(c)(0) and the observation of a Helfand-Werthamer-type [14]
temperature dependence of H_(c2)^(c)(T) have important consequences for
possible models of the superconducting state of MgB₂.

Our result obviously questions the intrinsic nature of H_(c2)(T) derived
from measurements of ρ(T). Since the resistive transition is not
manifest in κ(T), which may be considered as a bulk property, H_(ρ)(T)
must correspond to a minor fraction of an additional phase (or phases)
with enhanced H_(c2) and T_(c). The spatial extension of this phase is,
however, large enough to short circuit the electrical current path and
produce a narrow superconducting transition at a temperature T_(c)
higher than the bulk transition temperature T_(c)^(′). Based on an
analysis of their magnetization and ac susceptibility data on
polycrystalline samples, the authors of Ref. [22] came to a similar
conclusion. The most likely origin of the second phase with enhanced
superconducting parameters seems to be related to surface effects. A
considerable enhancement of the electron density of states near the
Fermi level and, therefore, an enhanced trend to superconductivity at
the surface of MgB₂ have been predicted, [23, 24, 25] in agreement with
our observations.

In conclusion, we observe a striking disagreement in the values and the
temperature dependences of the upper critical field H_(c2)^(c) of MgB₂
evaluated from results of electrical- and thermal-conductivity
measurements on the same sample. The shape of H_(c2)^(c)(T) as
established by κ(H) with H∥c does not reveal an anomalous positive
curvature near T_(c) and therefore no exotic mechanism needs to be
involved to explain the upper critical field, at least not for the bulk.
Our data also indicate that the bulk transition temperature T_(c)^(′) is
lower than T_(c) obtained from results of ρ(T) measurements.

We acknowledge useful discussions with I.L. Landau, M. Angst, and R.
Monnier. This work was financially supported in part by the
Schweizerische Nationalfonds zur Forderung der Wissenschaftlichen
Forschung.

Figure 4: Critical fields H_(ρ) and H_(κ)  = H_(c2), as determined from
electrical-resistivity and thermal-conductivity measurements,
respectively. The solid line is compatible with calculations due to
Helfand and Werthamer (Ref. [14]). The dashed and dotted lines are to
guide the eye.

* [16] M. Tinkham, _Introduction to Superconductivity_, 2nd ed.
(McGraw-Hill, New York, 1996). * [17] J.A. Woollam, R.B. Somoano, and P.
O’Connor, Phys. Rev. Lett. **32**, 712 (1974). * [18] W.E. Lawrence and
S. Doniach, in _Proceedings of the 12th International Conference on Low
Temperature Physics, Kyoto, 1970_, edited by E. Kanda (Keigaku, Tokyo,
1971), p. 361. * [19] B. Brandow, Phys. Rep. **296**, 1 (1998). * [20]
F. Simon _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **87**, 047002 (2001). * [21] S.L.
Bud’ko, V.G. Kogan, and P.C. Canfield, Phys. Rev. B **64**, 180506(R)
(2001). * [22] G. Fuchs _et al._, Solid State Commun. **118**, 497
(2001). * [23] I.G. Kim, J.I. Lee, B.I. Min, and A.J. Freeman, Phys.
Rev. B **64**, 020508(R) (2001). * [24] E. Bascones and F. Guinea, Phys.
Rev. B **64**, 214508 (2001). * [25] V.M. Silkin, E.V. Chulkov, and P.M.
Echenique, Phys. Rev. B **64**, 172512 (2001).
