Superconductivity in noncentrosymmetric ternary equiatomic pnictides
La_MP_ (_M_ = Ir and Rh; P = P and As)

Yanpeng Qi,¹ Jiangang Guo,¹ Hechang Lei,¹ Zewen Xiao,² Toshio Kamiya,²
and Hideo Hosono^(1, 2,)

¹Frontier Research Center, Tokyo Institute of Technology, 4259
Nagatsuta, Midori, Yokohama 226-8503, Japan

²Materials and Structures Laboratory, Tokyo Institute of Technology,
4259 Nagatsuta, Midori, Yokohama 226-8503, Japan

Received 18 November 2013; revised manuscript received 7 January 2014;
published 31 January 2014

###### Abstract

We report bulk superconductivity of ternary equiatomic pnictides La_MP_
(_M_ = Ir and Rh; P = P and As) along with the crystal structure and
physical properties (resistivity, magnetization, and heat capacity). It
crystallized in a noncentrosymmetric structure type (space group I41,md,
Z = 4), which is an ordered ternary derivative of the centrosymmetric
_a_-ThSi₂ structure. Three ternary pnictides showed superconductivity at
low temperatures, and the highest critical temperature, _T__(c) = 5.3 K,
was observed for LaIrP. The experimental and density functional
calculations results suggested that La_MP_ could be categorized as a
Bardeen-Cooper-Schrieffer superconductor with intermediate coupling.
Considering the similar Sommerfeld value and Debye temperature, the
differences in _T__(c) were attributed to the difference in the
electron-phonon coupling strength in the compounds.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.89.024517 PACS number(s): 74.70.Xa, 74.25.N-

## I Introduction

Since the discovery of superconductivity in the heavy element
noncentrosymmetric compounds CePt₃Si [1] and Li₂Pd₃B [2],
superconductivity in systems lacking spatial inversion symmetry has
attracted widespread research interest. The absence of inversion
symmetry raises the possibility of antisymmetric spin-orbit coupling
(ASOC), which can lift the degeneracy of the conduction band electrons
and may lead to the formation of Cooper pairs of noncentrosymmetric
superconductors due to the admixing of spin-singlet with spin-triplet
states. It may also lead to various exotic electromagnetic properties,
such as a high upper critical field far beyond the Pauli-Clogston limit,
line nodes in the superconductivity gap function, or the involvement of
spin-triplet pairs in the superconductivity condensate [3, 4, 5, 6].

The discovery of high _T__(c) superconductivity in iron pnictides has
rekindled extensive exploration of new superconductors in metal
pnictides [7]. Among them, the ternary equiatomic pnictides with the
general formula _M’MP_ (where _M’_ is a large-sized, electropositive
transition metal from the left side of the periodic table, M is a small
transition metal, and P is a pnictogen) compose a large compound family
showing interesting physical properties at low temperatures. Indeed,
superconductivity has previously been reported in those compounds with
hexagonal structure or orthorhombic structure [8, 9]. Although ternary
equiatomic _M’MP_ compounds have already been widely studied, the
transition metal M has generally been a 3d metal. Hence, it is of
interest to synthesize new ternary equiatomic compounds with a higher d
orbital (4d or 5_d_) and to examine their physical properties at low
temperatures.

In this paper, we report the synthesis of ternary equiatomic pnictides
La_MP_ (_M_ = Ir and Rh; P = P and As) using high-pressure technology,
finding bulk superconductivity with transition temperatures 5.3 K, 3.1
K, and 2.5 K for LaIrP, LaIrAs, and LaRhP, respectively. La_MP_
crystallized in its own noncentrosymmetric structure (tetragonal, space
group I41md, Z = 4). This is the first superconducting report in ternary
equiatomic pnictides with the LaPtSi-type structure. The
characterization implies that ASOC is not strong enough to induce
unconventional superconducting properties in La_MP_ compounds.
Considering the similar Sommerfeld values and Debye temperatures, the
variation in superconducting transition temperatures is attributed to
the differences in magnitude of electron-phonon coupling strength in the
compounds.

## II Experimental and Computational Details

Polycrystalline samples of La_MP_ (_M_ = Ir and Rh; P = P and As) were
synthesized by solid state reactions under high pressure. First, the LaP
and LaAs were prepared from respective elements in an evacuated silica
tube. High-purity powders of Ir or Rh were mixed with LaP or LaAs at the
desired ratio and were placed in an _h_-BN capsule and then heated at
1673 K and 5 GPa for 2 h using a belt-type high-pressure apparatus. All
starting materials and precursors for the synthesis were prepared in a
glove box filled with purified Ar gas (H₂O, O₂< 1 ppm).

The phase identification of the resulting samples was carried out by
powder x-ray diffraction (PXRD) using a Bruker diffractometer (model D8
ADVANCE; Cu rotating anode). Rietveld refinement of the PXRD patterns
was performed using the TOPAS code [10]. Elemental compositions were
determined using an electron-probe microanalyzer (EPMA, JEOL, Inc.,
model JXA-8530F). The dependence of dc electrical resistivity was
measured by the conventional four-probe method with a physical property
measurement system (PPMS, Quantum Design). Magnetic measurements were
performed using a vibrating sample magnetometer (Quantum Design).
Specific heat data were obtained with the PPMS using the conventional
thermal relaxation method.

Density functional theory (DFT) calculations were performed using the
projected augmented plane-wave method implemented in Vienna _Ab initio_
Simulation Package 5.3.3 code [11]. The Perdew-Burke-Ernzerhof [12]
general gradient approximation was used for the exchange-correlation
potential. The lattice parameters and atomic positions were fully
relaxed by a structural optimization procedure minimizing the total
energy and force. Self-consistent solutions of the Kohn-Sham equations
were obtained by employing a 7 × 7 × 2 Monkhorst-Pack grid of k-points
for integration over the Brillouin zone, and the plane-wave basis-set
cutoff was set to 583.6 eV. The full electronic density of states (DOS)
was also calculated with a high k-point sampling of 14 × 14 × 4.

## III Results and Discussion

Figure 1 shows the XRD pattern of the LaRhP sample, representing La_MP_
(M = Ir and Rh; P = P and As) compounds. Except for the peaks arising
from the slight RhP3 impurity, all peaks could be attributed to the
tetragonal structure (space group _14_1md, Z = 4) with a = 4.1275 A and
c = 14.3839 A. The corresponding crystallographic data are summarized in
Table 1. From the quality of the XRD data, the Rietveld refinement
estimated the purity of LaRhP as ∼95

Figure 2(a) shows the temperature dependence of the electrical
resistivity for the La_MP_ (M = Ir and Rh; P = P and As) compounds in
the temperature range 1.9-300 K. All samples exhibited metallic
behaviors in the whole temperature range. At low temperatures, a sharp
drop in ρ(T) to zero was observed, suggesting the onset of a
superconducting transition. The inset of Fig. 2(a) shows an enlargement
of the superconducting transition. The transition temperatures T_(c)
were 5.3 K, 3.1 K, and 2.5 K for LaIrP, LaIrAs, and LaRhP, respectively.
The transition widths ΔT_(c) were all approximately 0.2 K, implying
fairly good sample quality. For the LaRhAs, however, the ρ(T) curve
still showed normal metal behavior; no superconducting transition was
observed down to the lowest measuring temperature.

In the normal state (5 K  < T< 25 K), the temperature dependence of ρ(T)
could be fitted to a power-law relation,

ρ = ρ₀ + aT^(n),
(1)

which yields an optimum value of 3 for n. This value of n agrees with
Wilson’s s-d scattering model, which predicts a T³ dependence of ρ₁(T)
for T < Θ_(D)/10[16]. At high temperature (40 K  < T< 300 K), the ρ(T)
data significantly deviate from linear temperature dependence, similar
to that of LaPtSi compounds [17, 18]. One of the models that describes
the ρ(T) of these compounds is known as the parallel resistor model [18,
19]. In this model the expression of ρ(T) is given by

$$\frac{1}{\rho(T)}=\frac{1}{\rho_{1}(T)}+\frac{1}{\rho_{\text{max}}},$$
(2)

  Compound                  LaRhP        LaRhAs                 LaIrP                 LaIrAs
  ---------------------- ------------ ------------ ------------------------------- ------------
  Space group(Z)                                     _14_1md or No. 109 (Z = 4)    
  Crystal structure                                 Ternary derivative of α-ThSi₂  
  Lattice parameter: a     4.1846 Å     4.1257 Å              4.2065 Å               4.1505 Å
  Lattice parameter: c    14.9358 Å    14.3839 Å              14.9379 Å             14.3277 Å
  La on 4a z                 0.0          0.0                    0.0                   0.0
  M on 4a z                 0.4215       0.4143                0.4197                 0.4126
  P on 4a z                 0.5857       0.5815                0.5839                 0.5754
  Rh/Ir-P distance         2.3827 Å     2.4520 Å              2.3789 Å               2.4533 Å
                           2.4051 Å     2.4538 Å              2.3993 Å               2.4628 Å
  P-Rh/Ir-P angle         119.98^(o)   117.01^(o)            119.25^(o)             117.30^(o)
                          120.03^(o)   121.49^(o)            120.77^(o)             121.35^(o)

Table 1: Structural parameters and Wyckoff positions of La_MP_ (M = Ir
and Rh; P = P and As).

Figure 1: (Color online) PXRD pattern of LaRhP representing La_MP_
compounds. The inset shows the crystal structure of LaRhP.

where $\rho_{\rm max}$ is the saturation resistivity, which is
independent of temperature, and ρ₁(T) is given by the following
expression:

$$\rho_{1}(T) = \rho_{0}+C_{1}\bigg{(}\frac{T}{\Theta_{D}}\bigg{)}^{3}$$
(3)
$$\times\int_{0}^{\Theta_{D}/T}\frac{x_{3}dx}{[1-\exp(-x)][\exp(x)-1 ]},$$

where ρ₀ is the residual resistivity and the second term is due to
phonon-assisted electron scattering similar to the _s-d_ scattering in
transition metal alloys. Θ_(D) is the Debye temperature, and C₁ is a
numerical constant. The resistivity data fitted to the above equations
in the range 40-300 K yielded Θ_(D) = 294 K, 240 K, 302 K, and 237 K for
LalrP, LalrAs, LaRp, and LaRhAs, respectively. As discussed below, these
values are close to the ones measured by low temperature heat capacity.

Low temperature magnetization measurements on La_MP_ compounds were
carried out in zero-field-cooling and field-cooling modes under 10 Oe in
the low temperature region. As shown in Fig. 2(b), the rapid drop of the
zero-field-cooling data denotes the onset of superconductivity, in fair
agreement with resistivity results. The large diamagnetic signal at 1.8
K confirms the bulk superconductivity. The magnetization curves in the
superconducting state show the typical behavior of type-II
superconductors. The superconducting volume fractions at 1.8 K were
larger than 100

Figure 3(a) shows the field broadening of the resistivity curves for the
LalrP compound with increasing magnetic fields. The superconducting
transition gradually shifted to the lower temperature [20; 21; 22]. At H
= 20 kOe, the superconducting transition could not be observed above 2
K. We plotted the upper critical field (H_(c2)) using the 90

$$H_{c2}(T)=H_{c2}(0)\frac{1-t^{2}}{1+t^{2}},$$
(4)

where t is the normalized temperature T/T_(c). It was found that the
upper critical field H_(c2) = 16.4 kOe, which was slightly higher than
that obtained using the WHH formula.

Figure 3: (Color online) Effects of magnetic field on superconducting
properties. (a) Temperature dependence of resistivity measured at
various magnetic fields for LalrP. (b) Temperature dependence of H_(c2)
of La_MP_ (M = Ir and Rh; P = P and As). The solid line shows the
fitting result using the Ginzburg-Landau (GL) formula.

Figure 2: (Color online) Temperature dependence of resistivity and
magnetism. (a) Resistivity ρ(T) of La_MP_ (M = Ir and Rh; P = P and As).
The solid lines show the fits (see text). Inset: Enlarged view of the
low-temperature region, showing the superconducting transition. (b)
Dc-magnetization data at low temperatures under an applied magnetic
field of 10 Oe. Large diamagnetic signals were clearly observed below
T_(c), indicating bulk superconductivity in the samples.

According to the relationship between H_(e2) and the coherence length ξ,
namely, H_(e2) = Φ₀/(2πξ²), where Φ₀ = 2.07 × 10⁻¹⁵ Wb is the flux
quantum, the derived ξ_(GL)(0) was 14.2 nm. The Pauli-Clogston limiting
field H_(p)(0) = 1.84T_(c)[24], yielding H_(p)(0) = 97 kOe for LaIrP,
was obviously larger than the present value; therefore, the orbital
effect should be the dominant pair-breaking mechanism in the LaIrP
compound. This is the difference from the case of CePt₃Si and Li₂Pt₃B
[1,2] in which the high upper critical field is far beyond the
Pauli-Clogston limit. Therefore, the ASOC induced by noncentrosymmetry
should not be significant in LaIrP. Similar phenomena were observed in
two other compounds, LaIrAs and LaRhP, and the corresponding data are
summarized in Table 2.

Further evidence for bulk superconductivity was obtained from the large
specific-heat jumps at T_(c), shown in Fig. 4(a). The temperatures
corresponding to the distinct jump in C_(p)/T coincided with the
electrical and magnetic data. The specific-heat curves in the low
temperature range could be well fitted by C_(p)/T = γ + βT² + δT⁴,
implying that the influence of high-frequency acoustic phonon branches
is more significant. The fitted curves yielded the Sommerfeld electronic
coefficients γ = 9.07, 8.82, 6.96, and 7.71 mJ⋅mol⁻¹⋅K⁻² for LaIrP,
LaIrAs, LaRhP, and LaRhAs, respectively. The Debye temperatures
calculated from the equation Θ_(D) = (12π⁴NR/5β)[1,3], where N is the
number of atoms per formula unit and R is the gas constant, were 282 K,
261 K, 328 K, and 263 K for the respective four samples. It can be seen
that the Debye temperatures Θ_(D) for these compounds are close to each
other and also consistent with the values from resistivity analyses.

  Compound             LaIrP   LaIrAs   LaRhP
  ------------------- ------- -------- -------
  T_(c)/K               5.3     3.1      2.5
  H_(e2) (WHH)/ kOe    13.8     5.5      2.1
  H_(e2) (GL)/ kOe     16.4     6.4      2.7
  ξ_(GL)(0)/nm         14.2     22.7    34.9
  ΔC/γT_(c)            0.65     0.84    0.73
  λ_(sph)              0.67     0.58    0.52

Table 2: Parameters obtained for superconductivity of LaIrP, LaIrAs, and
LaRhP.

Figure 4: (Color online) Low temperature heat capacity (C_(p)). (a), (c)
C_(p)/T vs T² of La_M_P_ (M= Ir and Rh; P= P and As). (b), (d)
Temperature dependence of the electronic specific heat plotted as
C_(el)/T vs T at zero field for superconducting compounds.

Figure 5: (Color online) Calculated electronic structure. (a) Band
structure of LaIrP. (b) The total and partial DOS curves for La_M_P_ (M=
Ir and Rh; P= P and As).

In addition, the γ is related to N(E_(F)) by

$$\gamma=\frac{\pi^{2}}{3}k_{B}^{2}N(E_{F}),$$
(5)

where k_(B) is the Boltzmann constant. The N(E_(F)) was 3.84, 3.74,
2.95, and 3.27 states/eV f.u. for LaIrP, LaIrAs, LaRhP, and LaRhAs,
respectively. These values are larger than the calculated values, as
shown below, suggesting the presence of remarkable electron-phonon
and/or electron-electron interaction. The electronic specific heat part
C_(el) was obtained by subtracting the phonon contribution, as shown in
Fig. 4(b). The normalized specific-heat jump values ΔC_(el)/γT_(c) were
estimated to be 0.65, 0.84, and 0.73 for LaIrP, LaIrAs, and LaRhP,
respectively, which was substantially smaller than the
Bardeen-Cooper-Schrieffer (BCS) weak-coupling limit value of 1.43 [25].
Small specific-heat jumps have also been observed in other
superconductors and may be due to multiband effects or gap anisotropy
[26, 27].

Figure 5(a) shows the electronic band structure of LaIrP representing
La_MP_ compounds. The band structures of the three other compounds were
also calculated and are shown in Fig. 3S of the Supplemental Material
[28]. In Fig. 5(b), we show the calculated total and partial DOS curves
near E_(F) for the La_MP_ compounds. It should be noted that the units
in which DOS were expressed were changed to states/eV nm³ in order to
compare the DOS values among these isostructural compounds. In the range
−5 to −2 eV below the Fermi energy, the Ir or Rh band could be
identified with some hybridization of the P or As orbital. At the Fermi
energy, the transition metal (Ir or Rh) atoms are the main contributor
to the DOS for all four compounds. Moreover, the N(E_(F))_(cal) values
(in units of states/eV f.u.) are listed in Table 3 and are very close to
each other.

From Table 3, we can see that the Debye temperatures and γ values for
those compounds are close to each other, while the T_(c) values were
obviously different. In addition, the N(E_(F))_(cal) was much smaller
than the derived values from specific heat measurements, suggesting that
there are strong electron-phonon and/or electron-electron interactions.
Next, we calculated the electron-phonon coupling constant λ_(e-ph).
According to the McMillan formula for electron-phonon mediated
superconductivity [29], λ_(e-ph) can be determined by

$$\lambda_{\text{e-ph}}=\frac{\mu^{*}\ln(1.45\;T_{c}/\Theta_{D})-1.04}{1.04+\ln( 1.45\;T_{c}/\Theta_{D})(1-0.62\mu^{*})},$$
(6)

where μ = 0.13 is the common value for Coulomb pseudopotential. By using
our experimental values of T_(c) and Debye temperature, we obtained
λ_(e-ph) = 0.67 for LaIrP, indicating an intermediately coupled
superconductor. Moreover, the value for LaIrP was obviously larger than
the λ_(e-ph) values for LaIrAs and LaRhP: 0.58 and 0.52, respectively.
Therefore, the higher T_(c) in LaIrP is attributed to the larger
electron-phonon coupling constant λ_(e-ph) when compared to the other
two compounds.

A generally accepted description relies on the ASOC, which increases the
spin degeneracy of the electronic bands. The effect of ASOC is a
significant variant in different noncentrosymmetric superconductors. If
the ASOC splitting is large, a genuine mixing of spin-singlet and
spin-triplet components occurs. The strength of the ASOC is determined
by the crystallographic structure and elemental composition. Although
the crystal structure and unit cells of Li₂Pd₃B and Li₂Pd₃B are alike,
their superconducting properties are distinctly different. The striking
difference highlights the role of composition: increasing the ASOC by
replacing Pd with Pt changes the superconducting order parameter from
dominantly spin-singlet to nodal, spin-triplet. On the other hand, an
upper critical field well below the standard paramagnetic limit and a
BSC-like temperature-dependent heat capacity are observed in the
noncentrosymmetric superconductor Mg₁₀Ir₁₉B₁₆ even with the heavy
transition element Ir. This suggests that the crystal structure might be
significant in Mg₁₀Ir₁₉B₁₆ compounds compared with the elemental
composition. In the present ternary-pnictide noncentrosymmetric
superconductors, BCS-type superconducting properties have been observed
in both 4_d_-orbital compound LaRhP and 5_d_-orbital compound LaIrP. A
possible explanation for the absence of unconventional superconducting
properties is the lesser extent of noncentrosymmetry. The ASOC induced
by noncentrosymmetry is not significant in the La_MP_ compounds.

## IV Summary

We report on the synthesis, crystal structure, and physical properties
(resistivity, magnetization, and heat capacity) in combination with DFT
calculations for ternary equiatomic pnictides La_MP_ (M= Ir and Rh; P= P
and As). Each La_MP_ crystallized into its own
noncentrosymmetric-structure type (space group I41md, Z = 4), and
superconductivity was found at T_(c) = 5.3 K, 3.1 K, and 2.5 K for
LaIrP, LaIrAs, and LaRhP, respectively. The upper critical fields H_(c2)
were not beyond the Pauli-Clogston limit, suggesting the ASOC induced by
noncentrosymmetry is not significant in the La_MP_ compounds. The DFT
calculations reveal that the transition metal Ir or Rh bands dominated
the Fermi level in those compounds. Considering the similar Sommerfeld
values and Debye temperatures, the differences in T_(c) in La_MP_
compounds were attributed to differences in electron-phonon coupling.

###### Acknowledgements.

This work was supported by the Funding Program for World-Leading
Innovative R&D on Science and Technology (FIRST), Japan.

  Compound                       LaIrP   LaIrAs   LaRhP   LaRhAs
  ----------------------------- ------- -------- ------- --------
  Θ_(D)(ρ(T))/K                   294     240      302     237
  Θ_(D)(C_(p))/K                  282     261      328     263
  γ/mJ⋅mol⁻¹⋅K⁻²                 9.07     8.82    6.95     7.71
  N(E_(F))_(T)/states/eV f.u.    3.84     3.74    2.95     3.27
  N(E_(F))/states/eV f.u.        1.60     1.57    1.61     1.58
  N(E_(F))_(V)/states/eV nm³     25.63   23.46    26.02   23.49

Table 3: Debye temperature Θ_(D) derived from resistivity and heat
capacity, normal-state electronic specific heat coefficient γ, derived
N(E_(F))_(T) from γ, calculated N(E_(F)), and calculated N(E_(F))_(V) of
La_MP_ (M= Ir and Rh; P= P and As).

* [1] E. Bauer, G. Hilscher, H. Michor, C. Paul, E. W. Scheidt, A.
Gribanov, Yu. Seropegin, H. Noel, M. Sigrist, and P. Rogl, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **92**, 027003 (2004). * [2] K. Togano, P. Badica, Y. Nakamori, S.
Orimo, H. Takeya, and K. Hirata, Phys. Rev. Lett. **93**, 247004
(2004). * [3] H. Q. Yuan, D. F. Agterberg, N. Hayashi, P. Badica, D.
Vandervelde, K. Togano, M. Sigrist, and M. B. Salamon, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**97**, 017006 (2006). * [4] N. Kimura, K. Ito, K. Saitoh, Y. Umeda, H.
Aoki, and T. Terashima, Phys. Rev. Lett. **95**, 247004 (2005). * [5] A.
D. Hillier, J. Quintanilla, and R. Cywinski, Phys. Rev. Lett. **102**,
117007 (2009). * [6] L. P. Gorkov and E. I. Rashba, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**87**, 037004 (2001). * [7] Y. Kamihara, T. Watanabe, M. Hirano, and H.
Hosono, J. Am. Chem. Soc. **130**, 3296 (2008). * [8] H. Barz, H. C. Ku,
G. P. Meisner, Z. Fisk, and B. T. Matthias, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA.
**77**, 3132 (1982). * [9] I. Shirotauni, Bull. Chem. Soc. Jpn. **76**,
1291 (2003). * [10] TOPAS 2005 Version 3(Karshnke, Germany: Bruker
AXS). * [11] G. Kresse and J. Furthmuller, Phys. Rev. B **54**, 11169
(1996). * [12] J. P. Perdew, K. Burke, and M. Ernzerhof, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **77**, 3865 (1996). * [13] O. L. Sologub, P. S. Salamakha, T.
Sasakawa, X. Chen, S. Yamanaka, and T. Takabatake, J. Alloys Compd.
**345**, 6 (2002). * [14] A. Loehken, G. J. Reiss, D. Johrendt, and A.
Mewis, Z. Anorg. Allg. Chem. **631**, 1144 (2005). * [15] K. Klepp and
E. Parthe, Acta Cryst. B **38**, 1105 (1982). * [16] A. H. Wilson, Proc.
R. Soc. Lond. A **167**, 580 (1938). * [17] F. Kneidinger, H. Michor, A.
Sidorenko, E. Bauer, I. Zeiringer, P. Rogl, C. Blaas-Schenner, D. Reith,
and R. Podloucky, Phys. Rev. B **88**, 104508 (2013). * [18] S.
Ramakrishnan, K. Ghosh, A. D. Chinchure, V. R. Marathe, and G. Chandra,
Phys. Rev. B **52**, 6784 (1995). * [19] H. Wiesmann, M. Gurvitch, H.
Lutz, A. K. Ghosh, B. Schwarz, M. Strongin, P. B. Allen, and J. W.
Halley, Phys. Rev. Lett. **38**, 782 (1977). * [20] T. Klimczuk, Q. Xu,
E. Morosan, J. D. Thompson, H. W. Zandbergen, and R. J. Cava, Phys. Rev.
B **74**, 220502 (2006). * [21] E. Bauer, R. T. Khan, H. Michor, E.
Royanian, A. Grytsiv, N. Melnychenko-Koblyuk, P. Rogl, D. Reith, R.
Podloucky, E. W. Scheidt, W. Wolf, and M. Marsman, Phys. Rev. B **80**,
064504 (2009). * [22] L. Fang, H. Yang, X. Zhu, G. Mu, Z. S. Wang, L.
Shan, C. Ren, and H. H. Wen, Phys. Rev. B **79**, 144509 (2009). * [23]
N. R. Werthamer, E. Helfand, and P. C. Hohemberg, Phys. Rev. **147**,
295 (1966). * [24] A. M. Clogston, Phys. Rev. Lett. **9**, 266 (1962). *
[25] J. Bardeen, L. N. Cooper, and J. R. Schrieffer, Phys. Rev. **108**,
1175 (1957). * [26] F. Bouquet, Y. Wang, R. A. Fisher, D. G. Hinks, J.
D. Jorgensen, A. Junod, and N. E. Phillips, EPL **56**, 856 (2001). *
[27] H. Okamoto, H. Taniguti, and Y. Ishihara, Phys. Rev. B **53**, 384
(1996). * [28] See Supplemental Material at
http://link.aps.org/supplemental/ 10.1103/PhysRevB.89.024517 for XRD
patterns of LaMPa (M = Ir and Rh; Pn = P and As), Temperature dependence
of resistivity measured at various magnetic fields for LaIrAs and LaRhP
and Electronic band structures of LaIrAs, LaRhP and LaRhAs. * [29] W. L.
McMillan, Phys. Rev. **167**, 331 (1968).
