Thermal conductivity of Al-doped MgB₂: Impurity scattering and the
validity of the Wiedemann-Franz law

A. V. Sologubenko,* N. D. Zhigadlo, J. Karpinski, and H. R. Ott

Laboratorium fur Festkorperphysik, ETH Honggerberg, CH-8093 Zurich,
Switzerland

Received 6 August 2006; published 16 November 2006

###### Abstract

We report data on the thermal conductivity κ(T, H) along the basal plane
of the hexagonal crystal structure of superconducting Mg_(1 − y)Al₁B₂
with y=0.02 and 0.07 at temperatures between 0.5 and 50 K and in
external magnetic fields between 0 and 70 kOe. The substitution of Al
for Mg leads to a substantial reduction of the heat transport via
electronic quasiparticles. The analysis of the κ(T, H) data implies that
the Al impurities provoke an enhancement of the intraband scattering
rate, almost equal in magnitude for both the σ and the π bands of
electronic excitations. This is in contrast with conclusions drawn from
analogous data sets for material in which carbon replaces boron and
where mainly the intraband scattering rate of the σ band is enhanced.
Our complete data set, including additional results of measurements of
the low-temperature thermal conductivity of pure MgB₂, confirms the
validity of the Wiedemann-Franz law for both pure and doped MgB₂.

pacs: DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.74.184523 + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL
REVIEW B **74**, 184523 (2006)

## I Introduction

In multiband superconductors, the onset of superconductivity may
introduce gaps of different size on different parts of the Fermi
surface. As a consequence, the thermal conductivity of multiband
superconductors at T  < T_(c), the critical temperature, and in external
magnetic fields H ≈ H_(c2), the upper critical field, reveals specific
features that are usually not observed for common type-II
superconductors. These features were first reported for MgB₂ (Ref. [1])
and subsequently also identified for NbSe₂ (Ref. [2]) and PrOs₄Sb₁₂
(Ref. [3]). The thermal conductivity κ(H) of these materials in the
mixed state of superconductivity, measured at constant temperature,
exhibits an unusual two-step increase with increasing magnetic field
between H_(c1) and H_(c2). The two steps reflect the separate recovery
of the heat transport carried by quasiparticles of two electronic energy
bands with significantly different energy gaps in the superconducting
state. [4, 5] In order to observe this type of behavior of κ_(e)(H), the
electronic contribution to the total thermal conductivity, it is
important that in the corresponding temperature and magnetic-field
ranges, the heat transport carried by phonons and represented by
$\kappa_{\rm ph}(H)$ is relatively weak. In addition, also the
conditions of weak interband scattering of the quasiparticles and a
scattering of quasiparticles in the band developing the smaller gap
compatible with a moderately dirty limit situation need to be fulfilled.
[4] All these conditions are ideally met for MgB₂; at helium
temperatures and the two step enhancement of κ_(e)(H) with increasing
field is very pronounced, such that the contribution of each of the two
types of bands to κ_(e) can be identified. Hence this allows us, in
principle, to investigate the influence of different perturbations on
the heat transport carried by different energy carriers separately.
Indeed, results of measurements of the thermal conductivity of
Mg(B_(1 − y)C_(x))₂ (Ref. [6]) revealed that low concentrations of C
replacing B reduce the steplike enhancement of κ(H) near H_(c2) much
more than the analogous feature of κ(H) which is observed at much lower
fields. This result suggests that the carbon related defects scatter
quasiparticles of the band with the large gap much more than
quasiparticles excited in the band with the smaller gap. This
observation agrees with the expectation that C substitutions for B
mostly enhance the scattering between states in the σ band which is
predominantly formed by boron sp_(y)p_(y) orbitals. In this work we
describe and discuss results of analogous measurements of κ(H, T) of
Mg_(1 − y)Al₁B₂. The investigations of single-crystalline material with
y=0.02 and 0.07 reveal that Al replacing Mg at the few at.

Aluminium replacing Mg in MgB₂ is expected to influence the
superconductivity of the pure binary compound mainly via two effects.
[7, 8] First, Al doping causes a reduction of hole-type carriers, thus
reducing the corresponding density of electronic states (DOS) and,
likewise, the size of both gaps Δ_(σ) and Δ_(π), thereby accounting for
the reduction of T_(c). The second consequence is caused by out-of-plane
distortions created by Al occupying Mg sites which enhance the interband
scattering thus leading to a relative increase of the gap in the π band.
Indeed, results of various experimental studies confirm this view and
suggest that for y≈ 0.1, the replacement of Mg by Al leads to a gradual
reduction of Δ_(σ) without substantial changes in the value of Δ_(π)[9,
10, 11, 12] For y> 0.1 the situation is more controversial but most
experimental results are compatible with the reduction of both gaps upon
increasing y. [10, 12, 13] Because choosing y> 0.1 often leads to
inhomogeneities in the Al distribution, such as the segregation of
samples into Al-rich and Al-poor regions, [12, 14] we restricted our
study to material with y< 0.1, for which the influence of Al is expected
to be as described above.

## II Experiment

The preparation and characterization of the Mg_(1 − y)Al_(y)B₂ single
crystals that were used in this study is described in detail in Ref.
[14]. The synthesis under high pressure allowed the production of
single-phase, single-crystalline material up to Al concentrations y∼
0.1. For our measurements we selected two samples, below denoted as Al2
and Al7, with Al contents, as determined by energy-dispersive x-ray
analysis, of y = 0.02 and 0.07, respectively. Since we also intended to
confirm or refute our earlier conclusion of the nonvalidity of the
Wiedemann-Franz law for MgB2 at helium temperatures (Ref. 1), we
repeated the measurement of the thermal conductivity of binary MgB2,
using two newly synthesized single crystals, denoted as MB1 and MB2
below. All samples were bars with the approximate shape of a prism and
typical dimensions of 0.9 x 0.3 x 0.06 mm3. The thermal conductivity was
measured using the same standard uniaxial heat-flow method that we
applied in our previous experiments on pure and C-doped MgB2.1 In this
setup, one end of the sample is attached to a copper body serving as a
heat sink and at the opposite end, a miniature RuO2 resistor, serving as
the heater, is attached. The temperature gradient along the sample was
monitored employing either RuO2 resistor thermometers below 4 K or
chromel/Au + 0.07

## III Results

The electrical resistivity was measured between 2 and 300 K in zero
magnetic field and H = 50 kOe, oriented along the crystallographic c
direction. For both new specimens of pure MgB2, MB1, and MB2, _r_(_T_)
is very similar to the data that we obtained in earlier work (Ref. 1)
for sample MB0. Likewise the values of _T_c, the transition widths, and
the residual resistance ratios turned out to adopt similar values as
were established in our previous work. Note, however, that the absolute
resistivities of the new samples just above _T_c are somewhat lower than
before (see Table I). In the temperature range between _T_c and
approximately 150 K, _r_(_T_) may very well be represented by _r_(_T_) =
r0+ _aT_3. The most obvious variation of r upon replacing small amounts
of Mg by Al is an expected increase of the residual resistivity r0,
already reached at 40 K, which is caused by an enhanced scattering rate
due to the Al defects in the Mg sublattice. The temperature-dependent
component due to the scattering of electrons by phonons changes only
very little.

In Fig. 1 we display the thermal conductivity of Mg1-_m_Al,B2 (_y_ =
0.02 and 0.07) as a function of temperature in zero magnetic field and
for H = 50 kOe, with H oriented parallel to the c axis. In zero magnetic
field, the absolute difference in magnitude of k is more pronounced at
elevated temperatures but with decreasing temperature to much below _T_c
this difference is reduced significantly and is only marginal at
temperatures below 3 K. Below 3 K, the temperature dependence of k is
fairly well represented by _k_(_T_)   T3. In the field induced normal
state, the relative difference in the k values persists to temperatures
below 1 K where _k_(_T_) approaches a variation linear in temperature.

In Fig. 2 we display typical curves for _k_(_H_), obtained for the two
investigated samples at various constant temperatures. Below _H_c1 and
above _H_c2, the thermal conductivity varies only weakly with field.
However, in the mixed state, i.e., between _H_c1 and _H_c2, _k_(_H_)
exhibits a substantial field dependence, as expected. While _H_c1 cannot
reliably be determined from our data sets because the _k_(_H_) curves
are irreversible in the vicinity of _H_c1, the upper critical field can
be identified quite accurately from the abrupt change of slope of
_k_(_H_), as is indicated by the arrow in the upper left panel of Fig.
3. The resulting curves of _H_c2(_T_) are shown in Fig. 3. We emphasize,
as in our previous work, that _H_c2(_T_) obtained in this manner is a
reliable measure for the temperature dependence of the upper critical
field of the bulk of the sample, insensitive to surface
superconductivity or minority-phase inclusions.15 The observed trend of
the alteration of _H_c2(_T_), its values, and anisotropies (see inset of
Fig. 3) upon Al concentration, is consistent with the results presented
in Ref. 14.

  ----- ------- --------------- ------------- ----------------------
                   T_(c) (K)      _ρ_(40 K)   
    y            from _ρ_(_T_)   (_μ_d O cm)   _ρ_(300 K)/_ρ_(40 K)
   MB0     0      38.1 ± 0.1        2.05               6.80
   MB1     0      38.3 ± 0.1        0.71               7.49
   MB2     0      38.2 ± 0.1        1.20               7.11
   Al2   0.017    35.9 ± 0.15       2.36               3.90
   Al7   0.073    33.0 ± 0.2        4.13               2.70
  ----- ------- --------------- ------------- ----------------------

Table 1: Samples of Mg1-_γ_Al,B2 studied in this work. Sample MB0,
listed for comparison, was studied earlier (see Ref. 1).

Figure 1: Thermal conductivity vs temperature in the _ab_ plane of
single-crystalline Mg1-_γ_Al,B2 (_y_ = 0.02 and 0.07) in zero magnetic
field (open symbols) and _H_|_c_ = 50 kOe (solid symbols). The arrows
indicate the critical temperatures in zero magnetic field.

## IV Analysis and Discussion

### Multiband feature of thermal transport

In MgB₂ the total heat transport is carried by itinerant lattice and
electronic quasiparticle excitations and κ is given by the sum

$$\kappa_{\rm tot}=\kappa_{\rm ph}+\kappa_{e}$$
(1)

with κ_(e) = κ_(e, σ) + κ_(e, π), where the last two terms capture the
heat transport by quasiparticles of the σ and the π bands, respectively.
In principle, fitting the zero-field κ(T) data in the temperature range
T ≈ T_(c) by invoking Eq. (1) and the appropriate theoretical
expressions for the individual terms, estimates of the corresponding
gaps in the quasiparticle excitation spectra can be made. The theory of
Bardeen, Rickayzen, and Tewordt (Ref. [16]) has successfully been used
to evaluate the energy gaps of conventional, single-gap superconductors
from thermal conductivity data. For multigap superconductors, more than
one channel of quasiparticle heat transport in different energy bands
need to be considered [17] and therefore the number of fit parameters
increases according to the increasing number of bands involved. If the
heat transport carried by phonons is not negligible, the number of
independent parameters increases even more. In particular, also the
scattering of phonons by quasiparticles has to be taken into account. In
our case, the upturn of κ(T) in zero magnetic field just below T_(c)
indicates that the phonon contribution to the thermal conductivity in
the normal state, $\kappa_{\rm ph}^{n}$, is not small in comparison with
the normal-state component κ_(e)^(n). Thus $\kappa_{\rm ph}$ is not
negligible at T ≈ T_(c) and any fitting procedure in the manner
indicated above seems unreasonable. Nevertheless, in Ref. [18] an
attempt of such an analysis has been made for data obtained for
polycrystalline MgB₂ where the phonon contribution to the total thermal
conductivity is claimed to be negligibly small.

Information about details of quasiparticle scattering can be obtained
from the analysis of the magnetic-field dependence κ(H) of the thermal
conductivity, measured in the mixed state of type-II superconductors at
constant temperature. Usually, upon increasing H above H_(c1), κ(H)
first decreases because of an additional scattering of both phonons and
quasiparticles by vortices. With still increasing H, the increasing
density of quasiparticles in normal vortex cores enhances κ_(e). Also
for MgB₂ the thermal conductivity in the mixed state is dictated by such
processes but the resulting features of κ(H) are clearly different from
those observed for common superconductors. First, κ_(e) increases very
rapidly in rather low fields, such that a considerable part of the
normal-state thermal conductivity is recovered already when H≪ H_(c2).
This is distinctly different from observations in common type-II
superconductors where, depending on the sample purity, κ_(e)(H) either
grows significantly and rapidly only if H approaches H_(c2) (pure limit)
or reaches its normal-state value in an approximately linear fashion,
i.e., κ_(e)∝ H/H_(c2) (dirty limit). [9] Second, when measured along
different crystallographic directions and taking into account the
anisotropy of the upper critical field, the low-field increase of κ(H)
does not scale as H/H_(c2) as is the case for common type-II
superconductors. For MgB₂, these anomalous features find a natural
explanation by considering the anisotropy of the gap in the
quasiparticle excitation spectrum, i.e., the different gap values for
the σ and the π bands, respectively. It turns out that the smaller gap
Δ_(π) is quenched already at H^(*) < H_(c2), where the critical field
H^(*) is practically independent of the orientation of H, reflecting the
three-dimensional nature of the π band. In this scenario, in the
intermediate field regime H^(*)  = H^(*) < H_(c2), the contribution of
the quasiparticles created in the π band is close to that in the normal
state whereas in the σ band, the large gap prevents the excitation of
quasiparticles until H approaches H_(c2) and hence κ_(e, σ) grows
substantially only when H is close to H_(c2). In shape this is similar
to what is observed for common, moderately pure type-II superconductors.
Considering that at a given temperature, H_(c2)^(ab) is significantly
larger than H_(c2)^(c), the ratio

Figure 3: The upper critical fields H_(c2)(T/T_(c)). The closed and open
symbols correspond to the field directions perpendicular and parallel to
the c axis, respectively. For comparison, our earlier results for pure
MgB₂ (Ref. [15]) are shown by the dashed lines. The inset shows the
anisotropies of the upper critical fields γ = H_(c2)^(a)/H_(c2)^(c).

Figure 2: Thermal conductivity in the basal plane of Mg_(1 − y)Al_(y)B₂
(y = 0.02, 0.07) vs H at several fixed temperatures. The closed and open
symbols correspond to the field directions perpendicular and parallel to
the c axis, respectively. The arrow in the upper left panel demonstrates
how H_(c2) for a given field orientation and at a given temperature was
established.

κ_(e)(H ⊥ c ≈ H⁺)/κ_(e)(H||c ≈ H_(c2))
provides a rough estimate of the ratio
κ_(e, π)^(κ)/κ_(e)^(κ)
.

In Fig. 4 we compare κ(H), measured at T=1.0 K, for pure and Al-doped
MgB₂; only data points where κ(H) is reversible are included in the
plot. In this temperature range, $\kappa_{\rm ph}\ll\kappa_{e}^{\kappa}$
and therefore the field dependence of κ mostly reflects that of the
thermal conductivity due to quasiparticles. The diagram clearly
indicates that Al substitutions for Mg reduce the ratio
κ_(e, π)^(κ)/κ_(e)^(κ) and thus κ_(e, π)^(κ)/κ_(e, σ)^(κ) but the latter
ratio changes much less than the total electronic thermal conductivity
in the normal state κ_(e)^(κ) (see inset of Fig. 4). For the ratios
κ_(e, π)^(κ)/κ_(e, σ)^(κ) at 1 K, we estimate the values of 1.9, 1.6,
and 1.2 for the samples MB1, Al2, and Al7, respectively. This suggests
that although the introduction of Al for Mg reduces the thermal
conductivity of quasiparticles slightly more strongly in the π band, the
overall effect is nearly the same in both channels. This is in stark
contrast to the observations made in the case of Mg(B_(1 − x)C_(x))₂
where a 3

The general equations capturing the thermal conductivity due to
quasiparticles can be simplified to the form

$$\kappa_{e}=\frac{1}{3}C_{Ve}v_{F}l_{e},$$
(2)

where C_(Ve) is the electronic specific heat, v_(F) is the Fermi
velocity, and l_(e) is the electronic mean free path. In the mixed state
the mean free path is given by l_(e) = v_(F)/(γ + γ_(A)), where γ is the
scattering rate due to impurities and γ_(A) is the scattering rate due
to Andreev scattering of quasiparticles at vortices.[17] In this
scenario, only γ is affected by Al impurities. For MgB₂ this approach
has to be modified to

$$\kappa_{e,i}=\frac{1}{3}C_{Ve,i}v_{F,i}l_{e,i},$$
(3)

with i = π, σ. It has been established that Al substitutions up to
y = 0.1 change neither C_(Ve) nor v_(F, π) in the ab plane in any
significant way.[13] With an Al content y = 0.1, v_(F, σ) in the ab
plane is reduced only by 10-15

### Relations between thermal and electrical conductivity

The relaxation rates which govern the electronic charge and heat
currents in metals, respectively, are in general not identical. However,
some of the involved scattering processes are, under certain conditions,
equally efficient in relaxing both electric and thermal currents. In
these cases, the electrical resistivity ρ and the electronic thermal
conductivity κ_(e) are related via the law of Wiedemann and Franz (WFL),
such that

κ_(e)(T) = L₀Tlρ(T),
(4)

where L₀ = 2.45 × 10⁻⁸ W Ω K⁻² is the Lorenz number. This relation is
expected to be valid for any metal whose electronic subsystem can be
described as a Fermi liquid. Elastic scattering of electrons by static
lattice defects is one of the mechanisms which are compatible with the
validity of the WFL. If this type of scattering dominates all other
processes, the residual resistivity at low temperatures adopts a
constant value and, in the same temperature regime, κ_(e) varies
linearly with temperature. The experimental Lorenz number
L(T) = κ(T)ρ(T)/T, with κ(T) as the directly measured thermal
conductivity, is a constant and equal to L₀ only if the phonon thermal
conductivity is negligible, i.e., $\kappa_{\rm ph}\ll\kappa_{e}$ and
hence κ_(e) ≈ κ. Inelastic-scattering processes always lead to L(T)<L₀
and sizable heat transport by phonons provides and excess heat
conduction and hence L(T)>L₀.

In the field induced normal state, all samples of MgB₂ exhibit a
temperature-independent resistivity below 40 K, suggesting that defect
scattering of quasiparticles dominates the low-temperature electronic
transport. In passing we note that even in external magnetic fields,
oriented along the c axis and of the order of 50 kOe, i.e., exceeding
the corresponding bulk value of H_(c2) at T=0 K for all investigated
materials, the onset of a superconducting transition is observed at very
low temperatures. Most likely this transition is related to properties
of the sample surface and hardly affects the predominantly probed heat
transport in the bulk of the sample. In order to check the validity of
the WFL, we thus used ρ = ρ₀ ≈ ρ(40 K), presented in Table 1.

In part of our earlier work[4] we encountered evidence that for pure
MgB₂, L(T)/L₀>1 at low temperatures which could

Figure 4: Reversible thermal conductivity κ normalized to its
normal-state value κ^(a) vs H at 1.0 K for pure and Al-doped MgB₂. The
closed and open symbols correspond to the field directions perpendicular
and parallel to the c axis, respectively. The inset shows doping
dependence of κ^(a) at 1.0 K.

not simply be attributed to a substantial phonon contribution to κ(T),
at least not below T=6 K. Our most recent experiments on
Mg(B_(1 − x)C_(x))₂ single crystals,[6] however, gave no evidence for a
violation of the WFL in the same temperature region. In Fig. 5 we plot
these earlier results together with the corresponding new data that we
accumulated for Al-doped MgB₂. Below 1 K, the series of both C and Al
doped materials exhibit ratios L/L₀ very close to 1. The smoothly
increasing deviation from the ideal value with increasing temperature
can easily be attributed to a non-negligible $\kappa_{\rm ph}$ which, in
the normal state of a metal exhibits a temperature variation that is
typically stronger than linear in T.

Since it appeared that the WFL is well satisfied in MgB₂ with small
amounts of defects due to Mg and B substitutions in the form of Al and
C, respectively, it seemed of interest to verify whether the reported
violation of the WFL is limited to pure MgB₂. We thus reexamined the
electrical and the thermal transport properties of two new single
crystals of MgB₂ (MB1 and MB2) between 0.5 and 6 K, both in the
superconducting state in zero magnetic field and in the normal state,
induced by a magnetic field of 50 kOe, oriented along the c direction of
the crystal lattice. The corresponding data resulted in the L/L₀ ratios
that are also displayed in Fig. 5.

In contrast to the substantial and temperature-dependent enhancement of
the Lorenz number that resulted from the data that were earlier obtained
for sample MB0, we now note an almost temperature-independent L(T),
somewhat smaller than L₀, for both new samples of pure MgB₂. The
reduction of L(T) to below the value of L₀ is most likely not caused by
inelastic scattering of the quasiparticles, because an almost parallel
shift of L(T) from L₀ would require that the responsible scattering
would add a temperature-independent contribution to the thermal
resistivity. However, all inelastic-scattering processes that we are
aware of, vary their strength with temperature. A more plausible
explanation is to attribute the constant shift of L(T) from L₀ to
uncertainties in the sample geometry. If, as in our experiments, the
same contacts are used to measure either the voltage or the temperature
difference along the sample in the respective measurements of the
electrical or the thermal conductivity, the same geometrical factor
applies for the corresponding equations for calculating ρ or κ. Thus in
calculating L(T), this factor drops out. This is really only true for
cases where the two contacts can be mounted far apart, in the sense that
their separation d is much larger than the contact width δ. Our samples
are quite small and hence d ≈ δ. In this case it is quite possible that
the effective distances between the contacts for measuring the voltage
or the temperature difference, i.e., d_(ρ) or d_(κ), are different. If
now the ratio d_(κ)/d_(ρ) differs from 1, the calculation of L will
result in a number that differs from L₀. For our small crystals, the
distance between the contacts was of the order of 300−400 μm and the
contact widths varied between 50 and 70 μm. It is therefore not unlikely
that d_(κ)≠d_(ρ) which, in turn, may explain the constant shift of L(T)
from L₀.

In this sense we believe that no anomalous violation of the WFL is
observed for the two new samples of single crystalline MgB₂. This
suggests that our earlier observation reported in Ref. [1] is not an
intrinsic property of the material. We note, however, that the κ(H) data
exhibit the same features for all the investigated samples of pure MgB₂
and therefore all the conclusions concerning the two-band features of
MgB₂ drawn in Ref. [1] remain valid.

## V Conclusions

Based on experimental results of the electrical and thermal conductivity
we note that the substitution of magnesium by aluminium in MgB₂ provokes
an increase of the quasiparticle scattering of similar magnitude in both
the σ and the π bands of electronic states. The calculated reductions of
the quasiparticle mean free paths in the σ and π bands, respectively,
are in agreement with results of de Haas-van Alphen experiments. The
considerable violation of the Wiedemann-Franz law at low temperatures
for pure MgB₂ that we reported in Ref. [1] could not be confirmed in
additional experiments using new single crystals of this compound. Since
also for all the doped MgB₂ crystals that we studied since (Ref. [6] and
this work), no anomalous deviations of the WFL were identified, our
previous observation must have been of extrinsic origin.

## Acknowledgment

This work was financially supported in part by the Schweizerische
Nationalfonds zur Forderung der Wissenschaftlichen Forschung.

Figure 5: Normalized Lorenz number L(T)/L₀ for three samples of pure
MgB₂ and for C- and Al-doped MgB₂. C6 denotes Mg(B_(0.94)C_(0.06))₂
(data from Ref. [6]).

* [4] Present address: II. Physikalisches Institut, Universitat zu Koln,
50937 Koln, Germany. * [5] A. V. Sologubenko, J. Jun, S. M. Kazakov, J.
Karpinski, and H. R. Ott, Phys. Rev. B **66**, 014504 (2002). * [6] E.
Boaknin, M. A. Tanatar, J. Paglione, D. Hawthorn, F. Ronning, R. W.
Hill, M. Sutherland, L. Taillefer, J. Sonier, S. M. Hayden, and J. W.
Brill, Phys. Rev. Lett. **90**, 117003 (2003). * [7] G. Seyfarth, J. P.
Brison, M.-A. Measson, J. Flouquet, K. Izawa, Y. Matsuda, H. Sugawara,
and H. Sato, Phys. Rev. Lett. **95**, 107004 (2005). * [8] H. Kusunose,
T. M. Rice, and M. Sigrist, Phys. Rev. B **66**, 214503 (2002). * [9] L.
Tewordt and D. Fay, Phys. Rev. B **68**, 092503 (2003). * [10] A. V.
Sologubenko, N. D. Zhigadlo, S. M. Kazakov, J. Karpinski, and H. R. Ott,
Phys. Rev. B **71**, 020501(R) (2005). * [11] S. C. Erwin and I. I.
Mazin, Phys. Rev. B **68**, 132505 (2003). * [12] J. Kortus, O. V.
Dolgov, R. K. Kremer, and A. A. Golubov, Phys. Rev. Lett. **94**, 027002
(2005). * [13] M. Putti, M. Affronte, P. Manfrinetti, and A. Palenzona,
Phys. Rev. B **68**, 094514 (2003). * [14] M. Putti, C. Ferdeghini, M.
Monni, I. Pallecchi, C. Tarantini, P. Manfrinetti, A. Palenzona, D.
Daghero, R. S. Gonnelli, and V. A. Stepanov, Phys. Rev. B **71**, 144505
(2005). * [15] L. D. Cooley, A. J. Zambano, A. R. Moodenbaugh, R. F.
Klie, J.-C. Zheng, and Y. Zhu, Phys. Rev. Lett. **95**, 267002 (2005). *
[16] R. S. Gonnelli, D. Daghero, G. A. Ummarino, A. Calzolari, V.
Dellarocca, V. A. Stepanov, S. M. Kazakov, J. Jun, and J. Karpinski, J.
Phys. Chem. Solids **67**, 360 (2006). * [17] T. Klein, L. Lyard, J.
Marcus, C. Marcenat, P. Szabo, Z. Holanova, P. Samuely, B. W. Kang,
H.-J. Kim, H.-S. Lee, H.-K. Lee, and S.-I. Lee, Phys. Rev. B **73**,
224528 (2006). * [18] J. Karpinski, N. D. Zhigadlo, G. Schuck, S. M.
Kazakov, B. Batlogg, K. Rogacki, R. Puzniak, J. Jun, E. Muller, P.
Wagli, R. Gonnelli, D. Daghero, G. A. Ummarino, and V. A. Stepanov,
Phys. Rev. B **71**, 174506 (2005). * [19] A. V. Sologubenko, J. Jun, S.
M. Kazakov, J. Karpinski, and H. R. Ott, Phys. Rev. B **65**, 180505(R)
(2002). * [20] J. Bardeen, G. Rickayzen, and L. Tewordt, Phys. Rev.
**113**, 982 (1959). * [21] L. Tewordt and D. Fay, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**89**, 137003 (2002). * [22] M. Putti, V. Braccini, E. Galleani
d’Agliano, F. Napoli, I. Pallecchi, A. S. Siri, P. Manfrinetti, and A.
Palenzona, Phys. Rev. B **67**, 064505 (2003). * [23] W. F. Vinen, E. M.
Forgan, C. E. Gough, and M. J. Hood, Physica A **55**, 94 (1971). * [24]
A. Carrington, J. D. Fletcher, J. R. Cooper, O. J. Taylor, L. Balicas,
N. D. Zhigadlo, S. M. Kazakov, J. Karpinski, J. P. H. Charmant, and J.
Kortus, Phys. Rev. B **72**, 060507(R) (2005).
