# Superconductivity in multiple phases of compressed GeSb₂Te₄

E. Greenberg,¹ B. Hen,¹ Samar Layek,¹ I. Pozin,² R. Friedman,³ V.
Shelukhin,¹ Y. Rosenberg,⁴ M. Karpovski,¹ M. P. Pasternak,¹ E. Sterer,³
Y. Dagan,¹ G. Kh. Rozenberg,¹ and A. Palevski.^(1,)

apalev@post.tau.ac.il ¹Raymond and Beverly Sackler School of Physics and
Astronomy, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv 69978, Israel ²Department of
Material Science and Engineering, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv 69978,
Israel ³Physics Department, Nuclear Research Center Negev, P.O. Box
9001, Beer Sheva 84190, Israel ⁴Wolfson Applied Material Research
Center, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv 69978, Israel

###### Abstract

Here we report the discovery of superconductivity in multiple phases of
the compressed GeSb₂Te₄ (GST) phase change memory alloy, which has
attracted considerable attention for the last decade due to its unusual
physical properties with many potential applications. Superconductivity
is observed through electrical transport measurements, both for the
amorphous (a-GST) and for the crystalline (c-GST) phases. The
superconducting critical temperature T_(c) continuously increases with
applied pressure, reaching a maximum T_(c) = 6 K at P = 20 GPa for
a-GST, whereas the critical temperature of the cubic phase reaches a
maximum T_(c) = 8 K at 30 GPa. This material system, exhibiting a
superconductor-insulator quantum phase transition, has an advantage over
disordered metals since it has a continuous control of the crystal
structure and the electronic properties using pressure as an external
stimulus.

pacs: DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.064514 + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL
REVIEW B **95**, 064514 (2017)

## I Introduction

In conventional metals and alloys Coulomb interactions are screened by
the conducting electrons, but an attraction between electrons due to the
electron-phonon interaction results in superconductivity, which appears
at a critical temperature T_(c) determined by the Debye frequency and
the electron-phonon coupling constant. A system where the electronic
properties can be tuned and the material can undergo a transition from a
metallic to an insulating state by applying an external stimulus can
therefore become a laboratory for studying fundamental questions about
superconductivity and quantum phase transitions.

GeSb₂Te₄ (GST) is a phase change material whose unusual physical
properties [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6] promise many potential applications in the
electronics industry [7, 8, 9, 10]. GST can undergo a reversible change
from an amorphous phase (a-GST) to a crystalline (c-GST) one at elevated
temperatures [1, 2, 3, 4], but also by elevated pressure at ambient
temperature [11]. This transition is accompanied by a significant change
of over four decades in resistance. The observed resistance changes, as
well as a reversible a-GST to c-GST phase transition, have been
explained using numerical simulations [11, 12, 13]. The corresponding
metal-to-insulator transition (MIT) in GST is often explained as a
disorder-induced Anderson localization [1].

Superconductivity near a metal-to-insulator transition has been reported
in disordered metals [14] and has been studied intensively.
Nevertheless, a continuous control of the electronic properties using
external stimuli has been lacking. Here, using pressure as an external
stimulus, we show that GST becomes superconducting at low temperature
and elevated pressure, while preserving its structural symmetry, namely,
remaining in the amorphous state. Therefore, amorphous GST becomes an
excellent tunable system for studying three-dimensional
superconductor-insulator quantum phase transitions. Furthermore, we
demonstrate that superconductivity with a somewhat higher T_(c) is
observed at higher pressures when the material undergoes a structural
transition from the amorphous (a-GST) into the crystalline (c-GST)
phase.

## II Results and discussions

In our transport studies of GST material under pressure in a wide
temperature range, we used as-grown amorphous (a-GST) and as-prepared
crystalline (c-GST) powders; pressure was generated using diamond anvil
cells (DACs); electrical transport measurements were performed using a
physical property measurement system (for details, see the Supplemental
Material (SM) [15]). The lattice of c-GST is hexagonal at ambient
temperature and atmospheric pressure, and therefore the crystalline
samples are denoted as h-GST in their initial conditions. An x-ray
diffraction analysis of our amorphous and crystalline samples, shown in
SM [15] (Fig. S1), confirms the amorphous structure of as-prepared a-GST
and the hexagonal structure of h-GST. Upon application of pressure at
ambient temperature we observe (SM [15], Fig. S2), in agreement with
Ref. [16], a gradual change in the density of the amorphous GST
material, which becomes almost constant for pressures above 14 GPa,
followed by crystallization into a bcc lattice at pressures above 20
GPa.

We emphasize that the continuous densification observed in the amorphous
phase should not be confused with the structural phase transition with a
symmetry change such as the one observed at crystallization into a bcc
lattice. The structure of GST at a pressure of 10 GPa, where we observe
superconductivity, is identical to the one at somewhat below 10 GPa,
namely, preserving the same amorphous phase with a somewhat higher
density. In fact, the borderline between the low- and high-density
amorphous phases is quite arbitrary. The authors of Ref. [16] have used
the highest change in densification rate as a criterion for putting the
borderline between them. For our sample, if we use this criterion, the
borderline would be at ∼14 GPa. We also observe all phases of
crystallographic transitions reported in Ref. [17] for the initially
crystalline h-GST (see SM [15], Fig. S2).

Two cells of a-GST were prepared (samples 1 and 2), one of which was
made of nonmagnetic materials to enable low temperature transport
measurements at various magnetic fields (sample 1). Two cells of the
h-GST sample were also measured as a function of temperature for various
pressures. In Fig. 1(a), we show the typical contact configuration for
measuring resistance at various pressures as a function of temperature.

At ambient temperature, the a-GST samples show a dramatic, over five
orders of magnitude, drop in resistance, when it is compressed by
applying quasihydrostatic pressure, followed by saturation above 9 GPa,
as shown in Fig. 1(b). The behavior of h-GST also saturates above 10
GPa, as seen Fig. 1(c), however, the overall change in resistance is
much smaller. The dramatic drop in resistance for the a-GST sample is
corroborated with the corresponding change of the mechanism of
conductivity.

For low pressures, below 5 GPa, the variation of resistance versus
temperature indicates that the a-GST is an Anderson insulator with a
typical transition from a simply activated to Mott variable range
hopping mechanism of the electronic transport, as depicted in Fig. 2. At
pressures exceeding 9.5 GPa, when the resistivity drops below
approximately 1 mΩ cm, the value reported previously [1] as a precursor
of the metal-insulator transition (MIT), a-GST becomes a superconductor
(Fig. 2).

In Fig. 3, we show resistance versus temperature for two amorphous
samples. The plots in Fig. 3 show that for pressures below P = 21 GPa,
there is a monotonous increase of the superconductor transition
temperature with pressure, accompanied with a decrease of the normal
state resistance. The behavior changes drastically when the pressure is
further increased above 21 GPa. One can clearly see that the curves have
two distinct transitions, signifying the appearance of an additional
phase with a higher transition temperature. This double transition is
observed in both samples.

As demonstrated by our x-ray diffraction (XRD) data in SM [15], and as
was reported previously by others [16], at this range of pressure, a
crystallographic phase transition occurs, forming the bcc ordered phase,
bcc-GST. We can therefore interpret the double transition as the
coexistence of a-GST with bcc-GST, both being superconductors with a
higher value of T_(c) for the crystalline phase. In Fig. 4(a), we show
magnetoresistance measurements at 2 K for sample 1 at different
pressures. From these curves we can extract the upper critical field
H_(C2), defined as the field for which the resistance attains half of
the normal state resistance value. A closer inspection of the curves
shown in Fig. 4(b) reveals a double transition versus magnetic field.
These double transitions in the magnetic field appear at a somewhat
higher pressure than the corresponding double transitions observed

Figure 1: Room temperature resistance under pressure. (a) Six platinum
triangles under pressure in one of the measurement setups. (b)
Resistance as a function of pressure of a-GST. (c) Pressure dependence
of resistance of c-GST. Shaded regions in different colors [(in both (b)
and (c)] are according to previously published XRD data [16,17] and our
resistance measurements.

Figure 2: Temperature dependence of a-GST samples demonstrating the
superconductor-insulator transition (SIT). The Mott variable range
hopping is clearly observed at pressures between 3.0 and 7.5 GPa, as
seen from the inset.

in R(T) curves. For these pressures, exceeding 40 GPa, only a single bcc
phase is expected to remain. This inconsistency is the subject for
further investigation. The values of the corresponding upper critical
field are plotted in Fig. 4(c). Our definition of H_(C2) is not
appropriate for the pressure range where we observe a double transition
(coexistence regime). In the latter case we estimated H_(C2) as the
midpoint value of each transition for each phase. Using a typical value
of H_(C2) = 2.8 T within the Ginzburg-Landau and BCS formalism [18], we
estimate the microscopic parameters as follows: the Ginzburg Landau
coherence length, ξ_(GL)(T) ≈ 30 nm at T ≈ 2 K. Assuming that our
samples are in a clean limit, ℓ ≥ ξ₀, which is a reasonable assumption
for a metallic GST with resistivity ρ ≤ 10μΩ cm, we can estimate the
Pippard coherence length at low temperatures to be ξ₀ ≈ 40 nm. If we
assume that the superconducting gap follows BCS theory,
Δ = 3.5k_(B)T_(c), then we can estimate the Fermi velocity by using the
relation $\xi_{0}=\frac{v_{f}}{\pi\Delta}$, and taking T_(c) = 7 K for
bcc-GST, we find v_(f) ≈ 3 × 10⁵ m/s. Additional current-voltage
measurements can be found in SM [15] (Fig. S3).

We also performed low temperature studies on two samples prepared in the
hexagonal phase, which were measured in different DACs. As we already
mentioned, the behavior of h-GST under pressure is quite different:
First, the resistivity changes by less than an order of magnitude at 300
K when compressed [see Fig. 1(b)], and second, it exhibits normal
metallic behavior at pressures below 10 GPa. The first crystalline
sample was compressed at room temperature to 28 GPa, decompressed, and
recompressed again. The variation of room temperature resistance upon
this cycle is depicted in SM [15] (Fig. S4). Since our as-prepared a-GST
was superconducting when transformed into the bcc phase, one could
expect that the as-prepared h-GST sample will also exhibit
superconductivity upon compression, following decompression from 28 GPa,
where bcc-GST is formed according to SM [15] (Fig. S2) and Ref. [17]. We
indeed observe the appearance of superconductivity upon recompression at
pressures above 14 GPa, as shown in Fig. 5(b). There are two separate
transitions in the R(T) curve which are quite distinct. We attribute the
highest T_(c) to the bcc phase, since it is very close to the value of
T_(c) observed in as-prepared a-GST samples undergoing a
crystallographic

Figure 4: Pressure dependence of the critical field of a-GST (sample 1).
(a) Resistance as a function of magnetic field at different pressures.
(b) Zoomed portion of the transitions from (a) for 34.3, 40.6, and 45.2
GPa showing two transitions in the last two pressures. (c) Variation of
the critical field as a function of pressure.

Figure 3: Superconducting transitions of a-GST. (a) Temperature
dependence of resistance at different pressures using four-probe
geometry (sample 1) and (b) using quasi-four-probe geometry (sample 2).
Two distinct superconducting transitions are observed.

transition to the bcc phase, whereas the lower transition is attributed
to superconductivity in the orthorhombic phase (see SM [15], Fig. S2,
and Ref. [17]). The measurements of the second h-GST sample were
performed only in the compression mode. These measurements reveal
behavior that is similar to the first sample, i.e., they do not exhibit
superconductivity at temperatures around 4 K for pressures below 14 GPa
[Fig. 5(a)]. At higher pressures, where h-GST transforms into different
crystallographic phases (SM [15], Fig. S2), we observe superconductivity
at the same temperatures as the first sample upon recompression [see
Fig. 5(b)]. We use a similar definition for the critical temperature
T_(c) as we used for defining H_(C2), namely, as the temperature for
which the value of the resistance is one half of its value at the normal
state, prior to the transition. We can get a T-P phase diagram, which
summarizes our findings for both as-prepared a-GST and h-GST samples, by
plotting the variation of T_(c) vs P in Fig. 6 for both measurement
sets. At the range presented in our phase diagram it appears that the
low-density amorphous and the hexagonal phases are not exhibiting
superconductivity. Much lower temperatures than those available in our
current experimental setup are needed to complete the phase diagram.

## III Conclusions

In conclusion, we have demonstrated superconductivity in both amorphous
and a few crystalline phases of GeSb₂Te₄ compound with a maximum
transition temperature of T_(c) = 8 K at a pressure of 30 GPa. We
believe that in addition to being a phase change material, GST becomes a
laboratory for studying superconductor-to-insulator transitions (SITs)
with the pressure being an external tuning parameter. It also provides a
unique opportunity to study and compare the disorder-driven SIT quantum
phase transition observed in the amorphous phase.

One of the remaining open questions regarding the nature of the observed
quantum phase transition [19] in the amorphous phase, which we hope to
answer in the future, is the existence of a quantum critical point where
T_(c) vanishes (an Anderson-like transition) or T_(c) remains finite,
indicating a Mott-like transition. Moreover, most of the systems where
the SITs were observed are either two dimensional (thin films of InOx,
Bi, MoGe, TaN), or almost two dimensional (layered high temperature
perovskite superconductors). There are some experimental indications as
well as theoretical predictions [20] that there might be an anomalous
metallic phase with the high values of conductivity in between the
insulating and the superconducting states. The conductivity of this
anomalous metal exceeds by orders of magnitude the Drude conductivity in
the normal state. Our amorphous GST, being a three-dimensional system,
could provide an answer in future studies whether the anomalous metallic
phase is not restricted only for two dimensions.

###### Acknowledgements.

A.P. would like to acknowledge very helpful discussions with Aharon
Kapitulnik, Gabriel Aeppli, Steve Kivelson, Srinivas Raghu, Boris
Spivak, and Moshe Goldstein. The authors would like to thank M. Shulman
for his help with the

Figure 5: Superconducting transitions of c-GST. (a) Temperature
dependence of resistance at different pressures. (b) Same measurements
using two wires after subtracting residual resistance values (1.329 and
1.564 Ω for 14.2 and 30.7 GPa, respectively).

Figure 6: Superconducting phase diagram of (a) a-GST and (b) c-GST.
Shaded regions in different colors are according to our
superconductivity measurements. Since the superconducting transition is
not completed at 12.3 GPa, which is the first point in (b), only the
onset temperature is given. The points inside rectangles in (b) are
measured during the recompression cycle.

variable temperature inset (VTI) system and A. Rabinowicz, A. Ron, and
E. Maniv for their assistance. We are grateful to Volodymyr Svitlyk and
Andrew Cairns at the ESRF for providing assistance in using beamline
ID27. This research was partially funded by the PAZI Foundation under
Grant No. 268/15. Support from the Israeli Science Foundation under
Grants No. 569/13 and No. 1189/14, and from the Israel Ministry of
Science, Technology and Space, under Contract No. 3-11875, are
acknowledged.

E.G., B.H., and S.L. contributed equally to this work.

## References

* [1] T. Siegrist, P. Jost, H. Volker, M. Woda, P. Merkelbach, C.
Schlockermann, and M. Wuttig, Nat. Mater. **10**, 202 (2011). * [2] W.
Zhang, A. Thiess, P. Zalden, R. Zeller, P. H. Dederichs, J.-Y. Raty, M.
Wuttig, S. Blugel, and R. Mazzarello, Nat. Mater. **11**, 952 (2012). *
[3] P. Nukala, R. Agarwal, X. Qian, M. H. Jang, S. Dhara, K. Kumar, A.
T. C. Johnson, J. Li, and R. Agarwal, Nano Lett. **14**, 2201 (2014). *
[4] K. S. Siegert, F. R. L. Lange, E. R. Sittner, H. Volker, C.
Schlockermann, T. Siegrist, and M. Wuttig, Rep. Prog. Phys. **78**,
013001 (2015). * [5] N. P. Breznay, H. Volker, A. Palevski, R.
Mazzarello, A. Kapitulnik, and M. Wuttig, Phys. Rev. B **86**, 205302
(2012). * [6] P. Zalden, K. S. Siegert, S. Rols, H. E. Fischer, F.
Schlich, T. Hu, and M. Wuttig, Chem. Mater. **26**, 2307 (2014). * [7]
D. Loke, T. H. Lee, W. J. Wang, L. P. Shi, R. Zhao, Y. C. Yeo, T. C.
Chong, and S. R. Elliott, Science **336**, 1566 (2012). * [8] D. Lencer,
M. Salinga, B. Grabowski, T. Hickel, J. Neugebauer, and M. Wuttig, Nat.
Mater. **7**, 972 (2008). * [9] M. Wuttig and N. Yamada, Nat. Mater.
**6**, 824 (2007). * [10] J. Hegedus and S. R. Elliott, Nat. Mater.
**7**, 399 (2008). * [11] M. Xu, Y. Q. Cheng, L. Wang, H. W. Sheng, Y.
Meng, W. G. Yang, X. D. Han, and E. Ma, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A.
**109**, E1055 (2012). * [12] Z. Sun, J. Zhou, Y. Pan, Z. Song, H.-K.
Mao, and R. Ahuja, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. **108**, 10410
(2011). * [13] M. Xu, W. Zhang, R. Mazzarello, and M. Wuttig, Adv. Sci.
**2**, 1500117 (2015). * [14] A. M. Goldman, Int. J. Mod. Phys. B
**24**, 4081 (2010). * [15] See Supplemental Material at
http://link.aps.org/supplemental/10.1103/PhysRevB.95.064514 for methods
and further plots of selected XRD spectra, and plots of critical current
and resistance. * [16] B. Kalkan, S. Sen, J.-Y. Cho, Y.-C. Joo, and S.
M. Clark, Appl. Phys. Lett. **101**, 151906 (2012). * [17] B. Kalkan, S.
Sen, and S. M. Clark, J. Chem. Phys. **135**, 124510 (2011). * [18] M.
Tinkham, _Introduction to Superconductivity_ (Kreiger, Malabar,
FL,1980). * [19] V. F. Gantmakher and V. T. Dolgopolov, Phys. Usp.
**53**, 1 (2010). * [20] B. Spivak and S. Kivelson (private
communication).
