Heat transport of La_(2 − y)Eu_(y)CuO₄ and
La_(1.88 − y)Eu_(y)Sr_(0.12)CuO₄ single crystals

X. F. Sun,* Seiki Komiya, and Yoichi Ando

Central Research Institute of Electric Power Industry, Komae, Tokyo
201-8511, Japan

Received 24 January 2003; published 8 May 2003

###### Abstract

To study the rare-earth doping effect on the phonon heat transport of
La-based cuprates and shed light on the mechanism of phonon scattering,
both _ab-plane_ and _c-_axis thermal conductivities (κ_(ab) and κ_(c))
are measured for La_(2 − y)Eu_(y)CuO₄ (y = 0, 0.02 and 0.2) and
La_(1.88 − y)Eu_(y)Sr_(0.12)CuO₄ (y = 0 and 0.2) single crystals. It is
found that the phonon peak (at 20-25 K) in κ_(ab)(T) of
La_(2 − y)Eu_(y)CuO₄ shows an anomalous Eu-doping dependence: it
completely disappears for y = 0.02, which is discussed to be due to the
local lattice distortions around Eu dopants, and reappears for y = 0.2
with much smaller peak magnitude compared to y = 0 sample. In contrast
to the strong suppression of the phonon peak in Eu-doped
La_(1.88)Sr_(0.12)CuO₄ enhances the low-T phonon heat transport that
results in the reappearance of the phonon peak in this
charge-carrier-doped system. The data clearly show that the
establishment of static stripe phase rather than the structural change
is responsible for the reappearance of phonon peak.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.67.184512

184512

## I Introduction

In La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄ (LSCO) related compounds, the high-temperature
structure is tetragonal (HTT, space group _I4/mmm_) and there are three
different low-temperature phases:[1; 2] the LTO (low-temperature
orthorhombic, space group _Bmab_) phase in LSCO, the LTO2
(low-temperature orthorhombic 2, space group _Pccn_) phase in rare-earth
(_R_) doped La_(2 − x − y)Sr_(y)Sr_(x)CuO₄, and LTT (low-temperature
tetragonal, space group _P4₂/ncm_) phase in
La_(2 − x − y)R_(y)Sr_(x)CuO₄ with larger x. These low-temperature
structures are classified[1] by the tilts of CuO₆ octahedra around [110]
and [1$\bar{1}$0] axes of the HTT phase and have pronounced influence on
the physical properties. For example, it has recently been realized that
the holes in the high-T_(c) cuprates mesoscopically segregate into
quasi-one-dimensional antiphase domain boundaries between
antiferromagnetically ordered Cu spin regions, which is the so-called
stripe phase;[3; 4; 5; 6; 7; 8; 9; 10; 11; 12; 13; 14; 15; 16] the
static stripe order of charges and spins is only established in R
(Nd,Eu)-doped LSCO,[3; 17; 18; 19] where the stripes are believed to be
pinned by the particular tilting of CuO₆ octahedra in the LTT phase.[3]

It is known that the antiferromagnetic (AF) insulating compound La₂CuO₄
(LCO), which has LTO phase, shows predominant phonon heat transport at
low temperatures, which is manifested in a large phonon peak at 20-25 K
in the temperature dependence of both _ab-_plane and _c-_axis thermal
conductivities (κ_(ab) and κ_(c));[20; 21] such phonon peak was found to
be completely suppressed in LSCO with x = 0.10-0.20.[20] Interestingly,
it was found that in _R_-doped LSCO, such as
La_(1.28)Nd_(0.6)Sr_(0.12)CuO₄, the low-T thermal conductivity is much
enhanced in the nonsuperconducting LTT phase, compared to that in LSCO
with the same Sr content.[22] This cannot happen if the defect
scattering and electron scattering of phonons are the only source of the
phonon peak suppression in LSCO. Alternatively, it was proposed that the
strong suppression of phonon heat transport in LSCO is due to the strong
phonon scattering by the structural distortion associated with the
dynamical stripes, while _R_-doping leads to the formation of static
stripes that significantly reduces the phonon scattering.[22] However,
this supposition would be too straightforward, because the low-T
structure phases are LTO and LTT in LSCO and _R_-doped LSCO,
respectively, which possess different phonon spectra and phonon
scattering. In fact, it has already been reported that the structural
symmetry does affect the phonon properties; for example, the sound
velocities in the three structures are known to be
v_(s)(LTT)> v_(s)(LTO)> v_(s)(LTO),[23] which implies that the phononic
thermal conductivity is likely the largest in the LTT phase and the
smallest in the LTO phase. Apparently, it is not a solid conclusion that
the reappearance of phonon peak in _R_-doped LSCO is due to the
formation of static stripes, until evidence showing a direct
relationship between the low-T phonon heat transport and the static
charge stripes (rather than the structural transition) is obtained.
Another question, apart from the structural phase transition, is how the
R dopants themselves affect the phonon heat transport. A previous study
on the Nd-doped LCO (without charge doping) has shown that the phonon
transport is somehow suppressed by Nd-doping;[24] however, no clear
_R_-doping dependence of the heat conductivity was reported, probably
because only polycrystalline samples were used in that study. It is,
therefore, desirable to clarify the role of _R_-doping in the phonon
heat transport by studying both _R_-doped LCO and _R_-doped LSCO single
crystals.

To reduce the possible effect of magnetic moments of rare-earth ions on
the heat transport behavior, we select Eu ion as the dopant, which has
the smallest magnetic moment among rare-earth ions (atomic number
57-71), except for La and Lu. In this paper, we report our study of the
Eu doping effect on the phonon heat transport in two single-crystal
systems: La_(2 − y)Eu_(y)CuO₄ (y = 0, 0.02, and 0.2) and
La_(1.88 − y)Eu_(y)Sr_(0.12)CuO₄ (y = 0 and 0.2), which have LTO2 and
LTT phases for y = 0.2, respectively, at low temperature. It is found
that for LCO slight Eu-doping (y = 0.02) induces anomalous wipeout of
the phonon peak in κ_(ab) , which is due to the local structural
distortions induced by the local LTO2 regions around Eu ions in the LTO
phase, while further increase of Eu content (y = 0.2) recovers the
phonon peak, although the peak magnitude is much smaller than that of
undoped LCO. These results clearly show that rare-earth doping strongly
suppress the phonon heat transport in LCO. On the contrary, the Eu
doping in LSCO enhances the low-T phonon transport, which, based on the
new features found in our single crystals, we discuss to be most likely
related to the formation of static stripes.

## II Experiments

The single crystals of La_(2 − y)Eu_(y)CuO₄ and
La_(1.88 − y)Eu_(y)Sr_(0.12)CuO₄ are grown by the traveling-solvent
floating-zone (TSFZ) technique and carefully annealed.[25] After the
crystallographic axes are determined by using the x-ray Laue analysis,
the crystals are cut into rectangular thin platelets with the typical
sizes of 2.5×0.5×0.15 mm³, where the c axis is perpendicular or parallel
to the platelet with an accuracy of 1^(∘). La_(2 − y)Eu_(y)CuO₄ samples
are annealed in flowing pure He gas to remove the excess oxygen. On the
other hand, La_(1.88 − y)Eu_(y)Sr_(0.12)CuO₄ samples are annealed at 850
^(∘)C for 48 h in air, followed by rapid quenching to room temperature,
to remove the oxygen defects.

The thermal conductivity κ is measured using a conventional steady-state
technique at 2−150 K and a modified steady-state technique at 150−300
K.[21] The temperature difference ΔT on the sample is measured by a
differential Chromel-Constantam thermocouple, which is glued to the
sample using GE7031 varnish. The ΔT varies between 0.5

## III Results and Discussion

### Thermal conductivity of La_(2 − y)Eu_(y)CuO₄

Figure 1 shows the temperature dependences of the thermal conductivity
measured along the ab plane and the c axis in pure LCO and Eu-doped LCO
single crystals. The undoped La₂CuO₄ sample, as has already been
discussed in a previous paper,[21] shows a sharp phonon peak at low
temperature [∼ 25 K in κ_(ab)(T) and ∼ 20 K in κ_(c)(T)] and a broad
magnon peak in κ_(ab)(T) at high temperature (∼ 270 K).

Upon Eu doping, there are drastic changes in both κ_(ab) and κ_(c). Let
us first discuss the changes of the high-T magnon peak in κ_(ab)(T).
This peak is suppressed gradually upon Eu doping, which is directly
related to the suppression of the Neel transition temperature by Eu
doping. The detailed magnetic behaviors of these samples are shown in
the following subsection.

The phonon peak at low temperatures shows an anomalous change with Eu
doping. For La_(1.98)Eu_(0.02)CuO₄, with only 1

Figure 1: Thermal conductivity of La_(2 − y)Eu_(y)CuO₄ (y = 0, 0.02, and
0.2) single crystals along (a) the ab plane and (b) the c axis. The data
of La_(1.98)Sr_(0.02)CuO₄ single crystal are also shown for comparison.

LTO2-like tilts of the CuO₆ octahedra exist locally around Eu³⁺ ions in
the background of LTO phase, which results in very strong lattice
distortions that significantly scatter phonons. It should be noted that,
since Sr doping can never induce phase transition from LTO to LTO2/LTT,
the lattice distortions in La_(1.98)Sr_(0.02)CuO₄ are expected to be
much weaker.

With increasing Eu concentration, the local LTO2 regions around Eu³⁺
ions are expected to percolate at low temperature and the macroscopic
structural transition takes place. The cooperative tilt of CuO₆
octahedra in LTO2 phase would weaken the lattice distortions and the
phonon scattering, which is actually observed in La_(1.8)Eu_(0.2)CuO₄.
As shown in Fig. 1(a), the phonon peak, although still very weak,
reappears in La_(1.8)Eu_(0.2)CuO₄.

The Eu-doping dependence of κ_(c) shows that the effect of lattice
distortion related to the LTO2 phase on the phonon transport is weaker
in the c axis than in the ab plane. One can see in Fig. 1(b) that the
phonon peak still exists in κ_(c) of La_(1.98)Eu_(0.02)CuO₄, and the
peak height is comparable to that in La_(1.98)Sr_(0.02)CuO₄ (where the
disordering of static spin stripes in the c axis causes rather strong
phonon scattering [21]). However, the temperature dependence of κ_(c) in
La_(1.98)Eu_(0.02)CuO₄ is too complicated (because of a double peak
feature) to extract any detailed information of the phonon transport.
Nevertheless, the c-axis phonon peak is larger in La_(1.8)Eu_(0.2)CuO₄
than in La_(1.98)Eu_(0.02)CuO₄, similar to that in the ab plane.

The above results show that in lightly Eu-doped LCO, the structural
distortions associated with the local LTO2 regions strongly scatter
ab-plane phonons. Such structural distortions and phonon scattering
become weaker when the Eu concentration is large enough to stabilize the
macroscopic LTO2 phase at low temperatures. However, compared to the
pure LCO, the phonon peak is strongly suppressed even in
La_(1.8)Eu_(0.2)CuO₄ which has global LTO2 phase. There are two possible
reasons for such difference. First, it may come from the difference in
phonon spectrum between LTO and LTO2 phases, which is, however, not very
likely; as can be seen in Fig. 1, both κ_(ab) and κ_(c) of
La_(1.8)Eu_(0.2)CuO₄ show a steplike increase at ∼ 130 K when the
structure changes from LTO to LTO2 phase, which means the LTO2 phase
essentially has better phonon heat transport than the LTO phase.
Another, more likely reason is simply the impurity scattering by Eu
dopants.

### Magnetic properties of La_(2 − y)Eu_(y)CuO₄

It is well known that the magnetic properties of La₂CuO₄ are determined
by the Cu spins. At high temperatures, LCO is essentially a
two-dimensional Heisenberg antiferromagnet and a weak interlayer
coupling gives rise to the three-dimensional long-range Neel order. [33,
34] In the LTO phase of LCO, the spin easy axis is the b axis and all
the spins are weakly canted along the c axis. Such canted moments depend
on the tilting of CuO₆ octahedra; they become weaker in the LTO2 phase
and disappear in the LTT phase. [31] Thus, it is helpful to study the
magnetic properties for understanding the Eu-doping effect on local
structure. Figure 3 shows the magnetic susceptibility data of Eu-doped
LCO single crystals measured with 5000 Oe field applied along the c axis
or the ab plane. The pure LCO sample shows a sharp Neel transition in
χ_(c) and a much broader peak in χ_(ab) at T_(N)= 307 K, which
originates from the AF ordering of Cu²⁺ canted moments. [35, 36, 37]

Eu doping induces pronounced changes in the magnetic properties of
La_(1.8)Eu_(0.2)CuO₄, as shown in Fig. 3. First, both χ_(c) and χ_(ab)
data are shifted up significantly. This additional signals apparently
come from the Van Vleck contribution of Eu³⁺ ions, which is weakly T
dependent in χ_(c) and noticeably T-dependent in χ_(ab) , respectively.
(Note that the Van Vleck term, although is independent of temperature in
usual cases, can be T-dependent when the energy difference between the
ground state and the excited orbital state is smaller than k_(B)T, as
shown for Eu₂CuO₄. [38] Second, a clear Neel transition shows up in
χ_(c) with lower T_(N) (268 K) compared to undoped LCO, while the
corresponding peak is almost smeared out in χ_(ab) (only a slight hump
at T_(N)) because of the strong T dependence of χ_(ab). Third, another
transition appears in χ_(c) at the structural transition temperature,
which is due to the suppression of canted moments in the LTO2 phase and
the reduction of the interlayer magnetic coupling. [33] It is

Figure 3: Magnetic susceptibility of La_(2 − y)Eu_(y)CuO₄ single
crystals measured in 5000 Oe field applied along (a) the c axis and (b)
the ab plane.

Figure 2: Magnetic field dependence of in-plane thermal conductivity of
La_(1.98)Eu_(0.02)CuO₄ single crystal measured with magnetic field
parallel to (a) the c axis and (b) the ab plane, respectively.

not clear whether there is a corresponding transition in χ_(ab) because
of its strong T dependence. The details of the magnetic structure in
La_(1.8)Eu_(0.2)CuO₄ are thoroughly discussed elsewhere.[31] It should
be pointed out that the susceptibility data of the present single
crystal are different from the previous report, which used
polycrystalline samples and claimed that La_(1.8)Eu_(0.2)CuO₄ has the
LTT structure.[39]

For Eu-1

### Phonon peak in La_(1.68)Eu_(0.2)Sr_(0.12)CuO₄

While Eu doping significantly suppresses the phonon peak in the
non-carrier-doped LCO, it shows quite different effects on the phonon
heat transport of LSCO. The κ_(ab)(T) and κ_(c)(T) data for
La_(1.88)Sr_(0.12)CuO₄ and La_(1.68)Eu_(0.2)Sr_(0.12)CuO₄ single
crystals are shown in Fig. 4, in which the data for La_(1.8)Eu_(0.2)CuO₄
are also included for comparison. Since there are certain amount of
charge carriers doped by Sr, we should separate the electronic
contribution from the total thermal conductivity before discussing the
mechanism for the phonon heat transport.

The electronic thermal conductivity κ_(e) and the electrical resistivity
ρ are related by κ_(e)=_LT_/ρ, where L is called the Lorenz number. In
simple metals, L is usually constant at high-T and low-T (the
Wiedemann-Franz law) and is given by the Sommerfeld value 2.44× 10⁻⁸
WΩ/K². When the electron-electron correlation becomes strong, L becomes
smaller. For YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ), L has been estimated to be 1.2 - 2.0×
10⁻⁸ WΩ/K² near T_(c) by Hirschfeld and Putikka,[40] while Takenaka _et
al.[41]_ estimated L to be 2.4 - 3.3 × 10⁻⁸ WΩ/K² above T_(c) . So there
is still no consensus value of L for cuprates. Here, we roughly estimate
κ_(e) of our crystals by using the Sommerfeld value. The in-plane
resistivity ρ_(ab) of La_(1.88)Sr_(0.12)CuO₄ and
La_(1.68)Eu_(0.2)Sr_(0.12)CuO₄ are measured using a standard ac
four-probe method and shown in the inset of Fig. 5. We note that the
zero resistance at 5 K in La_(1.68)Eu_(0.2)Sr_(0.12)CuO₄ is a
filamentary superconducting effect, since the dc susceptibility
measurement does not show any bulk superconductivity in this sample. The
main panel of Fig. 5 shows the estimated in-plane phononic thermal
conductivity κ_(ph, ab) ( = κ_(ab) − κ_(e, ab)). It can be seen that the
main contribution to thermal conductivity is phononic in these samples.
For the c-axis heat transport, the electronic contribution is negligibly
small because of the 2−3 orders of magnitude larger electrical
resistivity in the c axis compared to ρ_(ab).[42, 43] The experimental
data for κ_(c) is nearly pure phonon conductivity.

Clearly, the phonon heat transport is strongly damped in
La_(1.88)Sr_(0.12)CuO₄, which shows complete disappearance of the phonon
peak in κ_(ab) and a weak hump in κ_(c) . The strong phonon scattering
can be related to the Sr dopants acted as impurities, the charge
carriers, and the structural distortions associated with dynamical
stripes. Eu doping in this LSCO system significantly increases the low-T
phononic thermal conductivity; clear phonon peak reappears in both
κ_(ab) and κ_(c) . Similar behavior in R-doped LSCO was first attributed
by Baberski _et al.[22]_ to the weakening of phonon scattering in the
static stripe phase. However, their data were collected on
polycrystalline samples and did not display quantitative difference
between LSCO and R-doped LSCO. Here the data on single crystals show
convincing evidence for the importance of static stripes on the phonon
transport. In this Eu-doped LSCO, LTO→LTT structural transition takes
place at ∼ 130 K (Refs. 18 and 30) and results in a steplike increase

Figure 4: Low-temperature thermal conductivity of La_(1.88)Sr_(0.12)CuO₄
and La_(1.68)Eu_(0.2)Sr_(0.12)CuO₄ single crystals. The data for
La_(1.88)Eu_(0.2)CuO₄ are also shown for comparison. The steplike
feature at ∼130 K is due to the LTO→LTT and LTO→LTO2 structural
transition for La_(1.68)Eu_(0.2)Sr_(0.12)CuO₄ and La_(1.68)Eu_(0.2)CuO₄,
respectively.

of the phononic thermal conductivity in the LTT phase. An important
feature is, as shown in Figs. 4(b) and 5, that La_(1.68)Sr_(0.12)CuO₄
has larger phononic thermal conductivity than
La_(1.68)Eu_(0.2)Sr_(0.12)CuO₄ in both the _ab_ plane and the c axis for
_T_>45 K, which means La_(1.68)Eu_(0.2)Sr_(0.12)CuO₄ has stronger phonon
scattering (which may come from Eu dopants) at high temperatures even in
the LTT phase. Therefore, it is more reasonable to attribute the
reappearance of phonon peak in Eu-doped LSCO to the stabilization of
stripes at low temperatures, which reduces the strong phonon scattering
by the stripe fluctuations, rather than the difference of the phonon
heat transport between LTT and LTO phases.

By reexamining the previous thermal conductivity data for
La_(1.28)Nd_(0.6)Sr_(0.12)CuO₄ single crystal,[21] we find that the
above feature is also present in Nd-doped LSCO. This means that the
suppression of the phonon scattering is common to the _R_-doped LSCO,
where static charge stripes are formed.

Furthermore, by comparing the data of La_(1.68)Eu_(0.2)Sr_(0.12)CuO₄
with those of La_(1.8)Eu_(0.2)CuO₄, which has LTO2 phase without
stripes, we can obtain useful information on the scattering mechanism of
phonons. In Figs. 4(a) and 5, one can see that in the _ab_ direction the
phonon peak in La_(1.68)Eu_(0.2)Sr_(0.12)CuO₄ is larger than that in
La_(1.8)Eu_(0.2)CuO₄, although the former compound has much more dopants
and charge carriers. This difference clearly shows that the LTT phase
has stronger phonon transport than the LTO2 phase, which overcomes the
additional impurity-phonon scattering by Sr dopants and charge-phonon
scattering in La_(1.68)Eu_(0.2)Sr_(0.12)CuO₄. However, the phonon peak
in κ_(c) shows opposite trend, that is, the peak magnitude is larger in
La_(1.8)Eu_(0.2)CuO₄ than in La_(1.68)Eu_(0.2)Sr_(0.12)CuO₄. The
additional phonon scattering in the c axis of
La_(1.68)Eu_(0.2)Sr_(0.12)CuO₄ is unlikely due to the Sr dopants,
considering their negligible effect on κ_(ab). Instead, it is probably
due to the lattice disorder induced by the disordering of static stripes
in the c direction.[21] There are two factors that make the stripe
correlation in the c direction very weak even in the static stripe
phase. First, the neutron experiments have already shown[44] that the
magnetic correlation length in the c direction is very short. Second,
the stripe orientations have been proposed to rotate 90^(∘) from one
CuO₂ plane to the nearest-neighbor plane.[44] Such strong disorder of
the static stripes along the c axis leads to rather strong phonon
scattering in the _c_-axis transport, which is very similar to what was
observed in the lightly doped LSCO.[21]

## IV Summary

We have measured the _ab_-plane and the _c_-axis thermal conductivities
of La_(2 − y)Eu_(y)CuO₄ (_y_ = 0, 0.02 and 0.2) and
La_(1.88 − y)Eu_(y)Sr_(0.12)CuO₄ (_y_ = 0 and 0.2) single crystals. It
is found that the low-temperature phonon heat transport shows opposite
Eu doping dependence in these two systems, that is, Eu doping strongly
suppresses the phonon peak in LCO, while it induces the reappearance of
phonon peak in LSCO. In Eu-1

## Acknowledgments

We thank J. Takeya for technical assistance, A. N. Lavrov and I. Tsukada
for helpful discussions.

## References

* [*] Email address: ko-xfsun@criepi.denken.or.jp * [2] M.K. Crawford,
R.L. Harlow, E.M. McCarron, W.E. Farneth, J.D. Axe, H. Chou, and Q.
Huang, Phys. Rev. B **44**, 7749 (1991). * [3] B. Buchner, M. Breuer, A.
Freimuth, and A.P. Kampf, Phys. Rev. Lett. **73**, 1841 (1993). * [4]
J.M. Tranquada, B.J. Sternlieb, J.D. Axe, Y. Nakamura, and S. Uchida,
Nature (London) **375**, 561 (1995). * [5] K. Yamada, C.H. Lee, K.
Kurahashi, J. Wada, S. Wakimoto, S. Ueki, H. Kimura, Y. Endoh, S.
Hosoya, G. Shirane, R.J. Birgeneau, M. Greven, M.A. Kastner, and Y.J.
Kim, Phys. Rev. B **57**, 6165 (1998).

[MISSING_PAGE_POST]

mada, R.J. Birgeneau, M.A. Kastner, Y.S. Lee, P.M. Gehring, and S.H.
Lee, Phys. Rev. B **60**, R769 (1999). * [7] M. Matsuda, M. Fujita, K.
Yamada, R.J. Birgeneau, Y. Endoh, and G. Shirane, Phys. Rev. B **65**,
134515 (2002). * [8] M. Fujita, K. Yamada, H. Hiraka, P.M. Gehring, S.H.
Lee, S. Wakimoto, and G. Shirane, Phys. Rev. B **65**, 064505 (2002). *
[9] A.W. Hunt, P.M. Singer, K.R. Thurber, and T. Imai, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**82**, 4300 (1999). * [10] Y. Ando, A.N. Lavrov, and K. Segawa, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **83**, 2813 (1999). * [11] T. Noda, H. Eisaki, and S.
Uchida, Science (Washington, DC, U.S.) **286**, 265 (1999). * [12] X.J.
Zhou, P. Bogdanov, S.A. Kellar, T. Noda, H. Eisaki, S. Uchida, Z.
Hussain, and Z.-X. Shen, Science (Washington, DC, U.S.) **286**, 268
(1999). * [13] V.J. Emery, S.A. Kivelson, and O. Zachar, Phys. Rev. B
**56**, 6120 (1997). * [14] S.A. Kivelson, E. Fradkin, and V.J. Emery,
Nature (London) **393**, 550 (1998). * [15] J. Zaanen, Science
(Washington, DC, U.S.) **286**, 251 (1999). * [16] Y. Ando, K. Segawa,
S. Komiya, and A.N. Lavrov, Phys. Rev. Lett. **88**, 137005 (2002). *
[17] B. Nachumi, Y. Fudamoto, A. Keren, K.M. Kojima, M. Larkin, G.M.
Luke, J. Merrin, O. Tchernyshyov, Y.J. Uemura, N. Ichikawa, M. Goto, H.
Takagi, S. Uchida, M.K. Crawford, E.M. McCarron, D.E. MacLaughlin, and
R.H. Heffner, Phys. Rev. B **58**, 8760 (1998). * [18] H.-H. Klauss, W.
Wagener, M. Hillberg, W. Kopmann, H. Walf, F.J. Litterst, M. Hucker, and
B. Buchner, Phys. Rev. Lett. **85**, 4590 (2000). * [19] B.J. Suh, P.C.
Hammel, M. Hucker, B. Buchner, U. Ammerahl, and A. Revcolevschi, Phys.
Rev. B **61**, R9265 (2000). * [20] Y. Nakamura, S. Uchida, T. Kimura,
N. Motohira, K. Kishio, K. Kitazawa, T. Arima, and Y. Tokura, Physica C
**185-189**, 1409 (1991). * [21] X.F. Sun, J. Takeya, S. Komiya, and Y.
Ando, Phys. Rev. B **67**, 104503 (2003). * [22] O. Baberski, A. Lang,
O. Maldonado, M. Hucker, B. Buchner, and A. Freimuth, Europhys. Lett.
**44**, 335 (1998). * [23] M. Sera, M. Maki, M. Hiroi, and N. Kobayashi,
J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **66**, 765 (1997). * [24] M. Sera, M. Maki, M.
Hiroi, N. Kobayashi, T. Suzuki, and T. Fukase, Phys. Rev. B **52**, R735
(1995). * [25] S. Komiya, Y. Ando, X.F. Sun, and A.N. Lavrov, Phys. Rev.
B **65**, 214535 (2002). * [26] Y. Ando, J. Takeya, Y. Abe, K. Nakamura,
and A. Kapitulnik, Phys. Rev. B **62**, 626 (2000). * [27] Y. Ando, J.
Takeya, Y. Abe, X.F. Sun, and A.N. Lavrov, Phys. Rev. Lett. **88**,
147004 (2002). * [28] F. Cordero, A. Paolone, R. Cantelli, and M.
Ferretti, Phys. Rev. B **62**, 5309 (2000). * [29] A.N. Lavrov, S.
Komiya, and Y. Ando, Nature (London) **418**, 385 (2002);
cond-mat/0208013 (unpublished). * [30] R. Werner, M. Hucker, and B.
Buchner, Phys. Rev. B **62**, 3704 (2000). * [31] I. Tsukada, X.F. Sun,
S. Komiya, A.N. Lavrov, and Y. Ando, cond-mat/0212360 (unpublished). *
[32] It was reported in Ref. 30 that La_(1.8)Eu_(0.2)CuO₄ has LTT phase,
while the new result on single crystal (Ref. 31) suggests that this
compound has LTO2 phase, similar to Nd-doped LCO (Ref. 1). * [33] M.A.
Kastner, R.J. Birgeneau, G. Shirane, and Y. Endoh, Rev. Mod. Phys.
**70**, 897 (1998). * [34] B. Keimer, N. Belk, R.J. Birgeneau, A.
Cassanho, C.Y. Chen, M. Greven, M.A. Kastner, A. Aharony, Y. Endoh, R.W.
Erwin, and G. Shirane, Phys. Rev. B **46**, 14034 (1992). * [35] T.
Thio, T.R. Thurston, N.W. Preyer, P.J. Picone, M.A. Kastner, H.P.
Jenssen, D.R. Gabbe, C.Y. Chen, R.J. Birgeneau, and A. Aharony, Phys.
Rev. B **38**, 905 (1988). * [36] T. Thio and A. Aharony, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **73**, 894 (1994). * [37] A.N. Lavrov, Y. Ando, S. Komiya, and I.
Tsukada, Phys. Rev. Lett. **87**, 017007 (2001). * [38] M. Tovar, D.
Rao, J. Barnett, S.B. Oseroff, J.D. Thompson, S.-W. Cheong, Z. Fisk,
D.C. Vier, and S. Schultz, Phys. Rev. B **39**, 2661 (1989). * [39] V.
Kataev, A. Validov, M. Hucker, H. Berg, and B. Buchner, J. Phys.:
Condens. Matter **11**, 6571 (1999). * [40] P.J. Hirschfeld and W.O.
Putikka, Phys. Rev. Lett. **77**, 3909 (1996). * [41] K. Takenaka, Y.
Fukuzumi, K. Mizuhashi, S. Uchida, H. Asaoka, and H. Takei, Phys. Rev. B
**56**, 5654 (1997). * [42] Y. Nakamura and S. Uchida, Phys. Rev. B
**47**, 8369 (1993). * [43] Y. Nakamura and S. Uchida, Phys. Rev. B
**46**, 5841 (1992). * [44] J.M. Tranquada, J.D. Axe, N. Ichikawa, Y.
Nakamura, S. Uchida, and B. Nachumi, Phys. Rev. B **54**, 7489 (1996).
