# Nuclear spin-lattice relaxation and antiferromagnetic spin
correlations

in superconducting thiospinel Cu1.5Co1.5S4

Y. Furukawa

Graduate School of Science & Technology, Kobe University, Nada, Kobe
657, Japan

S. Wada

Graduate School of Science & Technology and Faculty of Science, Kobe
University, Nada, Kobe 657, Japan

K. Miyatani and T. Tanaka

Faculty of General Education, Ehime University, Bunkyo, Matsuyama 790,
Japan

M. Fukugauchi

Faculty of Science, Ehime University, Bunkyo, Matsuyama 790, Japan

M. Ishikawa

Institute for Solid State Physics, University of Tokyo, Roppongi,
Minato, Tokyo 106, Japan

###### Abstract

The antiferromagnetic and superconducting properties of a thiospinel
Cu1.5Co1.5S4 (_T_(N)_ = 19.0 K, _T_(c)_ = 2.3 K) have been investigated
with ⁶³Cu NMR (75 MHz), ⁵⁹Co NMR (75 MHz), and ⁵⁹Co pure quadrupole
resonance between T = 1.23 and 150 K. The linear dependence of negative
⁶³Cu Knight shift (− 0.013

## Introduction

The possible incidence of magnetism, particularly the role played by
antiferromagnetic (AF) spin fluctuations, on superconductivity and on
normal-state properties has received wide interest in the study of the
high-_T_(c)_ copper oxygen perovskite superconductors (HTSC). In AF
insulators, the configuration of Cu²⁺ ions in the CuO₂ layers is 3_d⁹_
(_S_ = j) and the ground state is well described by two-dimensional (2D)
Heisenberg model.[1] By hole doping into the CuO₂ planes, long-range AF
order is destroyed and the system translates into a superconducting (SC)
state.[2] Our current interest is focused on the experimental analysis
of the proximity of the AF and SC phase.

On the other hand, extensive work on SC material research for copper
sulfides has been done and, recently, Miyatani, Ishikawa, and Tanaka[3]
found that most of the copper sulfide spinels and stannites, in which
the Cu atoms are in the Cu²⁺ (3_d⁹_) ionic state, show SC or
superconductorlike behavior. They suggested that the origin of the
observed SC can be attributed to the Cu-S bonds or to Cu-S defects
similar to the case of Cu-O bonds in HTSC. Among the copper chalcogenide
spinels, Cu_(1 + x)Co_(2 − x)S₄ (Ref. [4]) is interesting because it has
a Curie-Weiss-type susceptibility with an AF behavior below _T_(N)_;
this is shown in Fig. 1(a) and a SC transition at the lower temperature
_T_(c)_, which largely depends on x, as the temperature dependence of
the electrical resistivity is shown in Fig. 1(b).

In the case of the stoichiometric spinel CuCo2S4 (_x_ = 0), an
x-ray-diffraction (XRD) intensity analysis suggests that it is a normal
spinel. The Cu and Co atoms occupy the tetrahedral A site and the
octahedral B site, respectively, and the ionic distribution is given by
Cu²⁺[Co₂³⁺]S₄. From temperature dependence of the magnetic
susceptibility _kh_(_T_), the effective Bohr magneton _m${}_{\rm eff}$_
was estimated to be 0.985 _m_(B)_/Cu. Taking the metallic _p_-type
conductivity into consideration,[5] the Cu²⁺(3_d⁹_)-S bonds provide the
3d hole band like the case of HTSC. The Co³⁺ (3_d⁹_) ions take a low
spin configuration (_S_ = 0) as is explained from the NMR studies of Co
in Co3S4.[6, 7]

In the case of Cu1.5Co1.5S4 (_x_ = 0.5), the effect of additional Cu
atoms is believed, from the XRD analysis, to substitute for the Co atoms
at the B site, and the ionic distribution is given by
Cu²⁺[Cu_(0.5)²⁺Co_(1.5)³⁺]S_(4 − s). The Curie-Weiss-type susceptibility
becomes more pronounced, as is shown in Fig. 1(a), and _T_(N)_ increases
from 17.5 K for x = 0 to 19.0 K for x = 0.5. A measurement of
resistivity showed a SC transition at a low temperature, which took zero
resistivity at _T_(c)_ = 2.3 K, as is shown in Fig. 1(b). The electrical
resistivity in the normal state obeys the quadratic law ρ(T) = ρ₀ + A T²
at low temperatures,[8] suggesting that strong electron correlations or
spin correlations play an important role in the normal state. Thus, we
expect a possible coexistence of a prominent antiferromagnetism and
superconductivity in the present thiospinel Cu1.5Co1.5S4.

In this paper, we report briefly the results of a
nuclear-magnetic-resonance (NMR) study of ⁶³Cu and ⁵⁹Co and a
pure-quadrupole-resonance (PQR) study of ⁵⁹Co in a poly crystalline
specimen of Cu1.5Co1.5S4. The NMR has been known to be a useful tool for
microscopic investigations of the magnetic and SC properties of HTSC [9,
10], in which AF correlations in the normal state were inferred from the
large enhancement of the nuclear magnetic relaxation rate (_T_1_T_)⁻¹
observed at Cu sites. The symmetry of the SC wave function was inferred
from the _T_-dependence of T1 in the SC state [11].

Present experimental T1 data of both 63Cu and 59Co also show the
existence of significant (_T_1_T_)⁻¹ enhancements in the normal state
near _T_c. The T1 data of 59Co in the SC state measured by PQR under a
zero external magnetic field show a partial formation of the SC gap at
the B sites. The T dependence of T1, however, is not simply explained
within the framework of the conventional BCS model, nor is it an analogy
of T1⁻¹ behavior commonly observed in HTSC.

_Experiment._ The polycrystalline specimen of Cu1.5Co1.5 S4 [_T_c(onset)
= 4.0 K, _T_c(_r_ = 0) = 2.3 K, T_(N) = 19.0 K] used in the present
resonance study was synthesized by a standard vacuum shielded ampoule
method. The XRD measurements gave the lattice constant a = 9.470 A and u
parameter 0.390. The magnetization measurement showed that the Meissner
effect begins below _T_c(onset) = 4.0 K and presents  100

The NMR and PQR experiments were carried out using a phase-coherent
spin-echo spectrometer operating at 75 and 5-7 MHz, respectively.
Displayed in Figs. 2(a) and 2(b) are NMR spectra of 59Co and 63Cu in
Cu1.5Co1.5S4 obtained at 4.2 K and 75 MHz in a field sweeping procedure.
PQR spectra were also observed around 5.6 MHz in a zero magnetic field.
Figure 2(c) shows 59Co PQR spectrum obtained at 4.2 K.

The NMR spectrum of 59Co (_I_ = $\frac{3}{2}$) shows a typical
quadrupolar powder pattern attributed to the local trigonal symmetry at
the octahedral B site. The value of the 59Co Knight shift, K [59], and
the quadrupole frequency, ν_(Q)⁵⁹ = e²qQ/14h, deduced from the spectrum
is +1.43

The NMR spectrum of 63Cu (_I_ = $\frac{3}{2}$) shown in Fig. 2(b)
indicates a superposed structure with a sharp strong main line and a
broad weak line. The main line lacks the quadrupole structure. Most of
the observed 63Cu signal is then attributed to the Cu atoms at the A
sites, which have a local cubic symmetry. The broad and weak resonance
line would be attributed to the quadrupolar broadened spectrum of the
63Cu atoms in the octahedral B site with the local trigonal symmetry.

The Knight shift of 63Cu, K [63], shows a slight temperature dependence
as shown in Fig. 3, and takes a negative sign at low T (<25 K). The
negative sign of K [63] is indicative of a dominant d core-polarization
hyperfine coupling between the nuclear and electron spins. These results
of both K [59] and K [63] in Cu1.5Co1.5S4 are close to those in CuCo2S4
as ob

Figure 2: Nuclear resonance spectra in Cu1.5Co1.5S4 observed at 4.2 K:
(a) 59Co NMR spectrum at _ν_ = 75 MHz; (b) 60Cu NMR spectrum at _ν_ = 75
MHz; (c) 99Co PQR spectrum.

Figure 1: Temperature dependencies of the susceptibility (a) and of the
resistivity (b) of Cu1.5Co2.5S4 (_x_ = 0 − 0.5) reported by Miyatani _et
al._ (Ref. [4]).

tained by the cw NMR measurement by Locher.[6] From the K⁶³(T) vs χ(T)
plot shown in the inset of Fig. 3, the d-spin hyperfine coupling
constant $A_{\rm hf}^{63}(d)$ for the Cu atoms at the A site is
estimated to be −0.40 ± 0.1 kOe/μ_(B) , using the following relation:

$$A_{\rm hf}^{63}(d) = N\mu_{B}\,d\,K^{63}(T)/d\chi(T)\ \ ,$$
(1)

where N is the number of the Cu atoms at the A site per gram.

The spin-lattice relaxation time T₁ was measured utilizing the
single-rf-pulse-saturation method. The magnetization recovery at the
time $t_{\rm s}$M(t), after the saturation-rf-comb-pulses is given
by[12, 13]

[M(∞) − M(t)]/M(∞) = a₁e^(−b₁t/T₁) + a₂^(−b₂t/T₁)
(2)
+a₃e^(−b₃t/T₁) + a₄e^(−b₄t/T₁),

where the coefficients b_(i) depend on the observed transition levels,
and a_(i) on the initial saturation condition imposed on all the spin
levels. In the present initial condition of single π/2 saturation pulse,
b_(i) and a_(i) are given by b₁ = 1, b₂ = 6, b₃ = 0, b₄ = 0; a₁ = 0.1,
a₁ = 0.9, a₃ = 0, a₄ = 0 for central
$\left|\frac{1}{2}\right\rangle$↔$\left|-\frac{1}{2}\right\rangle$
transition of Cu NMR, b₁ = 1, b₂ = 6, b₃ = 15, b₄ = 28; a₁ = 0.013, a₂ =
0.068, a₃ = 0.206, a₄ = 0.714 for central
$\left|\frac{1}{2}\right\rangle$↔$\left|-\frac{1}{2}\right\rangle$
transition of Co NMR and b₁ = 3, b₂ = 10, b₃ = 21, b₄ = 0.214, a₂ =
0.649, a₃ = 0.136, a₄ = 0 for
$\left|\frac{1}{2}\right\rangle$↔$\left|+\frac{5}{2}\right\rangle$
transition of Co PQR, respectively.

The experimental recovery data of both ⁶³Cu and ⁵⁹Co NMR, however, could
not be reproduced by Eq. (2) with a corresponding set of coefficients.
It is tentatively assumed, to explain the recovery, that the observed
magnetization M(t) is composed of two components: M_(f) with fast
relaxation rate T_(1(t))⁻¹ and M_(s) with slow rates T_(1(s))⁻¹ . We
obtained a satisfactory fit with the following equation:

$$\frac{[M(\infty) - M(t)]}{M(\infty)} = M_{f}{\sum\limits_{i}}\ \ a_{i}e^{-b_{i}t/T_{1(t)}} + M_{s}{\sum\limits_{i}}\ \ a_{i}e^{-b_{i}t/T_{1(s)}},$$
(3)

where M_(f) + M_(s) = 1. The M_(f) corresponding to the fraction with
the fast relaxation rate T_(1(f))⁻¹ was estimated to be ∼ 70

Two characteristic results are obtained in the NMR experiment for the
copper thiospinel Cu_(1.5)Co_(1.5)S₄: (i) very weak T dependence of K⁶³
and nearly T-independent K⁵⁹, (ii) significant (T₁T)⁻¹ enhancements near
T_(c). These results agree qualitatively with those observed for the
over hole-doped copper perovskite HTSC of La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄ (Ref. 9)
and YBa_(2.5)Cu_(3.0) (Ref. 10). The unusual Cu relaxation behavior in
HTSC, associated with the growth of AF spin correlations, is the subject
of great interest and has been extensively studied. The essential point
is that, as the (T₁T)⁻¹ is expressed in terms of the dynamical spin
susceptibility,

$$(T_{1}T)^{-1}\!=\!\frac{\gamma^{2}k_{B}}{2\,\mu_{B}^{2}}\!\sum_{q}\frac{A_{q}^ {2}\!\!\!{\rm Im}\chi_{q}(\omega)}{\omega}\,,$$
(4)

a growth of the staggered susceptibility χ_(Q)(T) at the zone boundary
is responsible for the large (T₁T)⁻¹ enhancement, where Q = (π/2, π/2)
for the square lattice of HTSC.

Thus we may consider that the AF spin correlations play an important
role on the magnetism and the SC formation not only in HTSC but also in
Cu_(1.5)Co_(1.5)S₄, although there seems no evident structural
resemblance between the thiospinel and HTSC. It is worth to mention that
a non-SC compound of CuCo₂S₄, on the other hand, did not reveal such a
considerable amount of enhancement in (T₁T)⁻¹ in our preliminary ⁵⁹Co
PQR study.

The T dependence of T₁ below T_(c) for the conventional BCS
superconductors is well established:[15] the isotropic SC energy gap Δ
is opened at the Fermi level below T_(c). This causes a T₁⁻¹ enhancement
(BCS coherence peak) just below T_(c) and an exponential decrease at
lower T. The magnitude of the BCS coherence peak is known to be
diminished when anisotropy of the energy gap δΔ exists and/or the
external magnetic field is applied. In the case of HTSC, on the other
hand, the behavior of T₁ in the SC state has converged as follows: T₁⁻¹
decreases rapidly just below T_(c) without the BCS coherence peak, but
exhibits different behavior at lower T in each case.

In the present case of Cu_(1.5)Co_(1.5)S₄, the experimental T dependence
of T₁ of ⁵⁹Co below T_(c) is not simply explained within the framework
of the conventional BCS model, nor is it an analogy of the T₁⁻¹ behavior
in HTSC. T₁⁻¹ of the dominant fraction of Co at the B sites follows
roughly the (T₁T)⁻¹ ≃ 1.5 (sK)⁻¹ relation down to 1.23 K, in spite of
the fact that T₁ was measured under zero external magnetic field. T₁⁻¹
of the partial fraction of Co appeared below ∼ 0.65T_(c) , however,
shows a rapid decrease, providing evidence for the partial formation of
the SC energy gap. As the Meissner effect emerges below
T_(c)(onset) ∼ 4.0 K and presents ∼ 100

## References

* [1] S. Chakravarty _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **60**, 1057 (1988). *
[2] See, for example, B. Keimer _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **46**, 14 034
(1992). * [3] K. Miyatani, M. Ishikawa, and T. Tanaka, _Ferrites_,
Proceedings of the Sixth International Conference (The Japan Society of
Powder and Powder Metallurgy, Tokyo, 1992), p. 589. * [4] K. Miyatani
_et al._, Jpn. J. Appl. Phys. **32**, Suppl. 32-3, 224 (1993). * [5] R.
J. Bouchard _et al._, Inorg. Chem. **4**, 685 (1965). * [6] P. R.
Locher, Z. Angew. Phys. **24**, 277 (1968). * [7] H. Nishihara _et al._,
J. Appl. Phys. **69**, 4618 (1991). * [8] K. Miyatani, T. Tanaka, and M.
Ishikawa (unpublished). * [9] S. Ohsugi _et al._, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn.
**69**, 2351 (1991). * [10] P. C. Hammel _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**63**, 1992 (1989). * [11] See, for example, K. Ishida _et al._,
Physica C **179**, 29 (1991). * [12] A. Narath, Phys. Rev. **162**, 320
(1967). * [13] D. E. MacLaughlin _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **4**, 60
(1971). * [14] M. Ishikawa and J. Koike (unpublished). * [15] R. D.
Parks, _Superconductivity_ (Marcel Dekker, New York, 1969).

Figure 5: Temperature dependence of (T₁T)⁻¹ of ⁵⁹Co in
Cu_(1.5)Co_(1.5)S₄ obtained by PQR in the superconducting state: •,
(T_(1(f))T)⁻¹; ∘, (T_(1(g))T)⁻¹. The inset shows the temperature
dependence of the fractional component M_(s) with the slow relaxation
rate T_(1(g))⁻¹.
