# LiFeP: A nodal superconductor with an unusually large
$\frac{\Delta C}{T_{c}}$

J. S. Kim,¹ L. Y. Xing,² X. C. Wang,² C. Q. Jin,² and G. R. Stewart¹

¹Department of Physics, University of Florida, Gainesville, Florida
32611-8440, USA

²Institute of Physics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100190,
China

22 January (linear temperature term coefficient, or γ ≡ C/T as T → 0) of
9.2 mJ/mol K². This is significantly smaller than the value of
approximately 16 mJ/mol K² obtained from the rather scattered data
reported down to 2 K in the discovery paper.[1]

Second, the C/T data in Fig. 1 down to 0.4 K show a significant finite
intercept, or "residual" γ (γ_(r)) in the superconducting state, of
approximately 5 mJ/mol K². There does not seem to be an upturn due to an
impurity phase, as has been found[16; 17] in numerous IBSs–usually
starting above 1 K. Instead, this finite γ_(r) may be evidence[18] for
defect-caused states in the superconducting gap or nanoscale
inhomogeneity. In any case, this finite γ_(r) in the superconducting
state implies that only a fraction of the sample contributes to the
discontinuity in the specific heat ΔC at the superconducting transition.

Lastly, this discussion leads to considering the ΔC value shown in Fig.
1 for an idealized transition of ΔC/T_(c) = 5.2 mJ/mol K². Ideally,[18]
this ΔC/T_(c) value should be scaled to the amount of superconducting
sample, i.e., increased by the fraction
$\gamma_{\rm normal}(\gamma_{\rm normal}-\gamma_{r})$. Thus, 5.2 mJ/mol
K² might better be scaled to 11.4 mJ/mol K² for a 100

## IV Summary and conclusions

The specific heat of an improved quality sample of polycrystalline LiFeP
has been measured. The normal state γ value is 9.2 mJ/mol K², a factor
of 2 smaller than that recently reported[17; 9; 20] for LiFeAs. The
specific heat discontinuity at T_(c), ΔC, is significantly larger than
would correspond to the trend established for the IBSs by Bud’ko, Ni,
and Canfield.[10] This is the second example of an IBS with nodes[13]
(the first being KFe₂As₂, also a low T_(c), ≈4 K, material) where
ΔC/T_(c) is much too large for its T_(c) compared to the other IBS. In
the present case of LiFeP, ΔC/T_(c) as well as ΔC/γT_(c) are instead
similar to values that are characteristic of the BCS elemental
superconductors. Although it is theoretically possible for an
electron-phonon coupled superconductor to have nodes, experimental
examples are still missing. Thus, the more likely explanation for the
disagreement of the ΔC/T_(c) for LiFeP (and KFe₂As₂) with the trend
established[10] for the IBS is that there exist subtypes of
superconducting behaviors in these presumably unconventional
superconductors. It is worth noting that ΔC/T_(c) for
BaFe₂(As_(0.7)P_(0.3))₂, T_(c) ≈ 30 K, where nodes have also been shown
via penetration depth measurements[21] as well as by other
techniques,[8] agrees[11] with the BNC trend.[10]

Figure 2: (Color online) A plot of log ΔC/T_(c) vs log T_(c) after Ref.
[11], with the dashed line corresponding to the BNC trend for the
iron-based superconductors and the solid black line (notice the factor
of 2 lower slope) representing the trend for all the elemental
superconductors with T_(c) > 1 K. The solid green squares connected with
a vertical line are the range of ΔC/T_(c) values derived from the
specific heat data in Fig. 1. Even for the unscaled value of
ΔC/T_(c) = 5.2 mJ/mol K² at $T_{c}^{\rm mid}=4.86$ K, this value is a
factor of 3 larger than the BNC dashed line fit.

Figure 1: (Color online) Low temperature specific heat divided by
temperature C/T vs temperature of polycrystalline LiFeP between 0.4 and
14 K. The extrapolation of the normal state data that agrees with
entropy balance [$S_{\rm normal}(T_{c})=S_{\rm sc}(T_{c})$] results in a
γ value of 9.2 mJ/mol K², while the idealized sharp ΔC jump at the
superconducting transition gives ΔC/T_(c) = 5.2 mJ/mol K². Various means
of fitting the data below 3.5 K result in a residual γ, γ_(r), of 4.9 ±
0.2 mJ/mol K² with no apparent evidence for an upturn in C/T as T → 0.
Although it could be argued that this residual γ is consistent with the
existence of the nodes determined from the penetration depth
measurements (Ref. [6]), as has been pointed out in Ref. [8], line nodes
in the well known YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − x) (YBCO) nodal superconductor result in
a γ_(r) of at most 6

## Acknowledgments

Work at Florida (specific heat characterization) was supported by the US
Department of Energy, Office of Basic Energy Sciences, Division of
Materials Sciences and Engineering under Award No. DE-FG02-86ER45268.
Work in China was supported by NSF and MOST of China through research
projects.

## References

* (1) Z. Deng, X. C. Wang, Q. Q. Liu, S. J. Zhang, Y. X. Lv, J. L. Zhu,
R. C. Yu, and C. Q. Jin, Europhys. Lett. **87**, 37004 (2009). * (2) X.
C. Wang, Q. Q. Liu, Y. X. Lv, W. B. Gao, L. X. Yang, R. C. Yu, F. Y. Li,
and C. Q. Jin, Solid State Commun. **148**, 538 (2008). * (3) D. J.
Singh, Phys. Rev. B **78**, 094511 (2008). * (4) I. R. Shein and A. L.
Ivanovskii, Solid State Commun. **150**, 152 (2010). * (5) S. Kasahara,
K. Hashimoto, H. Ikeda, T. Terashima, Y. Matsuda, and T. Shibauchi,
Phys. Rev. B **85**, 060503(R) (2012). * (6) K. Hashimoto, S. Kasahara,
R. Katsumata, Y. Mizukami, M. Yamashita, H. Ikeda, T. Terashima, A.
Carrington, Y. Matsuda, and T. Shibauchi, Phys. Rev. Lett. **108**,
047003 (2012). * (7) H. Kim, M. A. Tanatar, Y. J. Song, Y. S. Kwon, and
R. Prozorov, Phys. Rev. B **83**, 100502(R) (2011). * (8) G. R. Stewart,
Rev. Mod. Phys. **83**, 1589 (2011). * (9) R. Prozorov and V. G. Kogan,
Rep. Prog. Phys. **74**, 124505 (2011). * (10) S. L. Bud’ko, N. Ni, and
P. C. Canfield, Phys. Rev. B **79**, 220516(R) (2009). * (11) J. S. Kim,
G. R. Stewart, S. Kasahara, T. Shibauchi, T. Terashima, and Y. Matsuda,
J. Phys.: Condens. Matter **23**, 222201 (2011). * (12) J. S. Kim, E. G.
Kim, G. R. Stewart, X. H. Chen, and X. F. Wang, Phys. Rev. B **83**,
172502 (2011). * (13) K. Hashimoto, A. Serafin, S. Tonegawa, R.
Katsumata, R. Okazaki, T. Saito, H. Fukazawa, Y. Kohori, K. Kihou, C. H.
Lee, A. Iyo, H. Eisaki, H. Ikeda, Y. Matsuda, A. Carrington, and T.
Shibauchi, Phys. Rev. B **82**, 014526 (2010). * (14) J. K. Dong, S. Y.
Zhou, T. Y. Guan, H. Zhang, Y. F. Dai, X. Qiu, X. F. Wang, Y. He, X. H.
Chen, and S. Y. Li, Phys. Rev. Lett. **104**, 087005 (2010); T.
Terashima, M. Kimata, N. Kurita, H. Satsukawa, A. Harada, K. Hazama, M.
Imai, A. Sato, K. Kihou, C.-H. Lee, H. Kito, H. Eisaki, A. Iyo, T.
Saito, H. Fukazawa, Y. Kohori, H. Harima, and S. Uji, _ibid._**104**,
259701 (2010); J. K. Dong and S. Y. Zhou, _ibid._**104**, 259702
(2010). * (15) G. R. Stewart, Rev. Sci. Instrum. **54**, 1 (1983); B.
Andraka, G. Fraunberger, J. S. Kim, C. Quitmann, and G. R. Stewart,
Phys. Rev. B **39**, 6420 (1989). * (16) J. S. Kim, E. G. Kim, and G. R.
Stewart, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter **21**, 252201 (2009). * (17) J. S.
Kim, G. R. Stewart, L. Y. Xing, X. C. Wang, and C. Q. Jin, J. Phys.:
Condens. Matter **24**, 475701 (2012). * (18) J. S. Kim, B. D. Faeth,
and G. R. Stewart, Phys. Rev. B **86**, 054509 (2012). * (19) D.-J.
Jang, J. B. Hong, Y. S. Kwon, T. Park, K. Gofryk, F. Ronning, J. D.
Thompson, and Y. Bang, Phys. Rev. B **85**, 180505 (2012). * (20) B. Lee
(private communication). * (21) K. Hashimoto, M. Yamashita, S. Kasahara,
Y. Senshu, N. Nakata, S. Tonegawa, K. Ikada, A. Serafin, A. Carrington,
T. Terashima, H. Ikeda, T. Shibauchi, and Y. Matsuda, Phys. Rev. B
**81**, 220501(R) (2010).
