# Lattice collapse and the magnetic phase diagram of Sr1-xCa2P2

Shuang Jia,1 A. J. Williams,1 P. W. Stephens,2 and R. J. Cava1

1Department of Chemistry, Princeton University, Princeton, New Jersey
08544, USA 12Department of Physics and Astronomy, Stony Brook
University, Stony Brook, New York 11794, USA

###### Abstract

We report that the 122-type Sr1-xCa2O2P2 solid solution undergoes an
anomalous structural transition from the uncollapsed to the collapsed
ThCr2Si2 structure at a distinct onset composition near x = 0.5.
Correlated with the structural changes, the electronic system evolves
from a nearly ferromagnetic Fermi liquid to an antiferromagnetic metal,
through a complex crossover regime. The structural collapse, driven by
P-P bonding across the (Sr,Ca) layers, is much more pronounced in this
system than it is in the analogous Fe-based system, indicating a strong
sensitivity of structure to total electron count in the transition-metal
pnictide 122 family.

2009 165107 2009 1098-0121/2009/80(16)/165107 2009 165107 2009 165107
2009 165107 2009 1098-0121/2009/80(16)/165107(5)

## 1 Introduction

The layered ThCr2Si2 122 structure type is commonly observed for _AT_2X2
compounds based on large (_A_), transition metal (_T_), and metalloid
(_X_) atoms.[1] In this 122 structure, the T2_X_2 layers, made from
edge-sharing _TX_4 tetrahedra, display a wide range of properties, from
magnetic ordering to superconductivity. Early theoretical investigation
of this structure type argued for the critical importance of the shape
of the _TX_4 tetrahedra and _X-X_ bonding across the A layers in
determining the electronic states at the Fermi level.[2] This has again
come to the fore in recent research into the structure-property
relationships in the iron pnictide superconductors.[3, 4, 5] One
structural feature of particular interest in the 122 transition-metal
pnictides is the so-called lattice collapse: some _AT_2P2 and _AT_2As2
compounds manifest significantly smaller ratios of stacking to in-plane
lattice parameters (_c_/_a_) than are expected from simple atomic size
considerations.[6] These are called "collapsed tetragonal" (cT) cells,
and occur because _X-X_ bonding between T2_X_2 layers pulls the layers
closer and induces a relaxation of the in-plane lattice dimension. The
materials with uncollapsed (ucT) cells are more normal representatives
of the structure type, with no _X-X_ bonding present. In some cases the
lattice collapse causes a significant difference in Fermi-surface
topology.[7, 8, 9] CaFe2As2 undergoes a first-order transition from an
ucT to a cT phase under pressure.[10]

Here we describe the correlations between structure and properties for
the Sr1-xCa2O2P2 solid solution. The pure Sr and pure Ca end members
show a highly anomalous difference in _c_/_a_, indicative of a
transition from ucT to cT phases.[6, 11] Unlike what is expected from
simple Vegard’s law behavior, here we show that the collapse onsets
suddenly in the middle of the solid solution series, even though it is
driven by smoothly increasing P-P bonding across the (Sr,Ca) layer. The
magnetic properties of the end member compounds are distinct: SrCO2P2 is
a nearly ferromagnetic (FM) metal with strongly temperature-dependent
magnetic susceptibility, whereas CaCo2P2 displays an antiferromagnetic
(AFM) transition in which the cobalt moments are ordered
ferromagnetically within the basal _ab_ plane but antiferromagnetically
along the c axis (_A_-type AFM).[6, 11] Employing diffraction,
thermodynamic, magnetic, and transport measurements, we show that the
changes in the magnetic properties of the solid solution correlate with
the structural anomalies. The ground states vary from nearly
ferromagnetic Fermi liquid (NFFL) to AFM, then to FM like, and finally
back to AFM. The correlations between the structure and magnetic
properties indicate that the electronic structure at the Fermi level for
Sr1-xCa2O2P2 is exceptionally strongly dependent on variations in P-P
bonding when compared to other compounds in the same structural family.

## 2 Experimental methods

Polycrystalline samples were prepared from elemental P, Sr and Ca, and
CoP powder.[12, 13] All the samples were characterized by laboratory
x-ray diffraction with Cu _K_a_ radiation (DS Focus, Bruker). In order
to characterize the shapes of the CoP4 tetrahedra and the P-P distances
between layers, selected samples, with nominal x equaling 0, 0.2, 0.4,
0.6, 0.7, 0.8, 0.9, and 1.0 were measured by synchrotron powder x-ray
diffraction (SXRD) at room temperature at beam line X16C at the National
Synchrotron Light Source at Brookhaven National Laboratory. Structure
analysis was performed by using the program gsas with expgul.[14, 15]
The refined Ca concentrations x were 1-5

## 3 Results

The lattice parameters of the Sr1-xCa2O2P2 series vary dramatically with
composition (Fig. 1). The c axis, a measure of the unit-cell
perpendicular to the T2_X_2 layers, decreases monotonically, but
nonlinearly, with x. The a axis, however, a measure of the T2_X_2
in-plane dimensions, changes in a highly non-Vegard’s-law, _S_-shape
manner with composition, showing minimum and maximum values at x   0.4
and 0.9, respectively. There are no two-phase regions in the series;
although the onset of the a axis change is sudden, the changes are
continuous. The anomalous lattice-parameter variation clearly reflects
an unusual underlying change in electronic structure that onsets
suddenly when proceeding from the ucT (Sr) to the cT (Ca) phases. The
lattice parameters of the Sr1-xCaFe2P2 series (made by the same method
as the Co samples), by contrast, do not show similarly anomalous
variations. Figure 2 shows the detailed characterization of the crystal
structures of Sr1-xCaCa2P2 series determined by SXRD. As x increases
from 0 to 1, the P-P distance across the Sr1-xCa intermediary layer
decreases substantially, from 3.3 to 2.4 A. The P-P separation changes
monotonically with composition. In strong contrast both the Co-Co
distance (equaling _a_/$\sqrt[]{2}$ and varying from 2.68 to 2.74 A) and
Co-P-Co tetrahedral angle (varying from 115deg to 121deg) vary in an
unexpected fashion with composition. In addition to a distinct onset of
a dramatic change at x = 0.5, they display anomalous maxima at x   0.9
(Fig. 2).

Figures 3 and 4 present the magnetic properties for representative
members of the series. The whole series manifests high-temperature
Curie-Weiss (CW) behavior [χ(T) = C/(T − θ_(CW)) + χ₀], with nearly
parallel _H_/_M_ curves (Fig. 4), indicating similar values of effective
moment (m_(f)) per Co and differing values of Curie-Weiss temperature
(_th_CW). At x = 0, SrCo2P2 shows an enhanced, temperature-dependent,
paramagnetic susceptibility [_kh_(_T_)] with a broad maximum [Fig. 3(a)]
that is typical of nearly FM materials.[17-19] As the Ca content x
increases from 0 to 0.44, _kh_(_T_) changes very little.

For x > 0.44, _kh_(_T_) increases with increasing x, and the broad
maximum in _kh_(_T_) evolves to a more pronounced feature as x = 0.54
[Fig. 3(b)]. For x >= 0.54, a sharp maximum in _kh_(_T_) develops,
indicating the appearance of an AFM transition. The _M_(_H_) curves at
1.8 K in this composition regime are consistent with an AFM ground state
[inset of Fig. 3(c)].

Figure 4: (Color online) High-temperature Curie-Weiss behavior for
representative members of the Sr1-xCa2P2 solid solution. Inset: _M_(_H_)
at 1.8 K.

Figure 3: (Color online) Temperature-dependent _M_/_H_ for
representative members of the Sr1-xCa2O2P2 solid solution. (a): x = 0,
0.33, and 0.44; (b): x = 0.75 − 0.49 (c): x = 0.80, 0.95, and 1.0.
Inset: x = 0.85 (arrow shows the transition point).

Figure 2: (Color online) P-P and Co-Co bond length, as well as the
Co-P-Co tetrahedral angle for Sr1-xCa2O2P2. Inset: the structure of
CaCo2P2 unit cell.

Both χ(T) and the AFM ordering temperature ($T_{\rm N}$) increase as x
increases, leading to atypical χ(T) behavior for 0.80 <= x <= 0.95 [Fig.
3(c) and inset of Fig. 3(b)]. The M(H) data in this composition regime
at 1.8 K (inset of Fig. 4) show small values of spontaneous
magnetization (∼0.05 μ_(B)/Co for x = 0.85), which are much less than
the high-field values. This indicates that the magnetic ground state
associated with these compositions is somewhat complex–with a small FM
component, rather than being a normal FM or AFM state. For x > 0.9, the
M(H) data shows no spontaneous magnetization and χ(T) decreases
dramatically with increasing x. The magnetic ordering temperature also
drops with increasing x, leading to $T_{\rm N}$=87 +- 3 K for x = 1.
This $T_{\rm N}$ for CaCo₂P₂ is lower than previously reported (113 K)
(Ref. [11]) but is consistent with the rest of our series, possibly
reflecting a subtle difference in stoichiometry for samples made by
different methods.

Figure 5(a) shows that the temperature-dependent resistivity data
manifest a clear slope change due to magnetic ordering for x ≤ 0.64 but
show no anomaly for x ≤ 0.54. For x ≤ 0.54, the low-temperature
resistivity data show FL behavior [ρ(T) = ρ₀ + AT²] below a
characteristic temperature [Fig. 5(b)]. The A values increase and the
characteristic temperatures decrease as x increases. The low-temperature
specific-heat data for x ≤ 0.54 [inset of Fig. 5(b)] show clear FL
behavior (C_(p) = γ₀_T_+β_T³), associated with very similar,
intermediate magnitude γ₀ values (∼20 mJ/mol CoK²).

The physical properties of Sr_(1 − x)Ca_(x)Co₂P₂ are summarized in Figs.
6 and 7. The data show that the magnetic properties for the series are
strongly correlated with the variation in the structure (see Figs. 1 and
2). The values of μ_(eff) vary in an 𝒮-shape manner with minimum and
maximum values at x = 0.5 and 0.85, respectively. $\theta_{\rm CW}$
varies from negative to positive on going from x = 0.0 to x = 1.0,
showing a crossover from dominantly antiferromagnetic to dominantly
ferromagnetic interactions near x ∼ 0.45, corresponding to the onset of
the structural collapse, and showing a maximum value of approximately
100 K at x ∼ 0.8 [Fig. 6(a)]. Figure 6(b) shows that, as x increases,
the values of the zero-temperature susceptibility (χ_(T = 0)) change
relatively little for 0 ≥ x ≥ 0.45, and then increase at higher x,
becoming divergent for x > 0.8 where a spontaneous magnetization
develops. χ_(T = 0) then decreases again for x > 0.9. The values of γ₀
and A^(1/2), which

Figure 5: (Color online) (a) Temperature-dependent resistivity, which
has been normalized by the high-temperature slope of all resistivity
data to that of SrCo₂P₂ (the arrows show the temperature where the slope
changes) and (b) low-temperature resistivity versus T²; inset of a:
low-temperature specific heat for x ≤ 0.54.

Figure 7: (Color online) The electronic and structural phase diagram for
Sr_(1 − x)Ca_(x)Co₂P₂, ucT and cT: uncollapsed tetragonal and collapsed
tetragonal; NFFL: nearly ferromagnetic Fermi liquid; AFM and FM:
antiferromagnetic and ferromagnetic order.

are proportional to the effective mass of the quasiparticles in FL
theory, change little for x < 0.5, consistent with the behavior of _kh_
= 0.

The electronic and structural phase diagram is summarized in Fig. 7. The
data show that the system evolves from a NFFL ground state to an AFM
ground state through a crossover composition regime near x = 0.5. Then,
for 0.8 < x <= 0.9, the system manifests a FM-like ground state within
which the magnetic ordering temperature is highest near x = 0.9. For x >
0.9, an AFM ground state reappears.

## IV Discussion and Conclusion

The structure and physical property changes in the isoelectronic
Sr1-CaCa2O2P2 solid solution are driven by the change in character of
the P-P bond across the alkaline-earth layer. As previously described,2
the P-P separation in the CaCo2P2 cT phase ( 2.3 A) is very close to
that of a full P-P single bond, yielding an effective electronic
configuration of [P-P]-4. In the uCT phase SrCo2P2, the P-P distance
(3.3 A) is a nonbonding separation and thus each P can be considered
formally as P-3. A transition from a nonbonding to a bonding P-P system
as x varies from 0 to 1 can therefore be anticipated but how that occurs
for Sr1-_x_Ca2Co2P2 is surprising.

As x first increases, from 0 to 0.4, both a and c decrease slowly,
indicating that the slowly increasing P-P hybridization has minimal
impact on the electronic system. The replacement of Sr2+ by smaller Ca2+
in this composition regime can therefore be considered as a simple
hydrostatic pressure effect. The P-P separation decreases continuously
on increasing x and when it reaches a value shorter than 3.1 A, near x =
0.4, the localization of electrons in the P-P pairs begins to impact the
distribution of electrons in the Co2P2 layers, seen dramatically in the
changes in the a axis. The unexpected behavior is that the slowly
changing P-P bonding character, as seen in the continuously changing P-P
bondlengths, induces a relatively sudden crossover of behavior of the
in-plane Co-P electronic system. In this composition regime, there
appears to be a sudden onset to the redistribution of charge within
those layers in response to the continuously increasing strength of the
P-P bond. The Co-P bondlength changes little across the series
(2.23-2.25 A), indicating that the total charge in the Co2P2 layers is
constant. For x larger than the other critical value, 0.9, with the P-P
distance shorter than 2.5 A, the single P-P bond appears to be fully
formed, and both c and a decrease slowly with increasing x, again
appearing to be a simple chemical pressure effect. The data in Fig. 1
show that the Sr1-_x_Ca2Fe2P2 family does not show a similarly dramatic
structural variation. The absence of this anomaly in the Fe case is
interesting since the P-P distances are similar to those in the Co
system, varying from 3.4 to 2.6 A, as one goes from Sr to Ca. The
difference must therefore be due to the difference in electron count in
the T2_X_2 layer.

Although electronic-structure calculations and further experiments are
needed to fully understand the phase diagram, some conclusions can be
drawn from our observations. The two-dimensional (2D), characteristic
122 structure of SrCo2P2 indicates that its Stoner enhancement
interaction mainly occurs within the Co2P2 layer. This is consistent
with the fact that the Co moments in CaCo2P2 ferromagnetically couple
within the basal plane. For x < 0.4, the nearly ferromagnetic FL ground
state of Sr1-_x_Ca2Co2P2 is almost invariant (manifested in _kh_(_x_= 0,
y0, and A1/2) because the P-P distance across the Sr,Ca layer has not
reached a critical value at which the P-P bond becomes strong. For x >
0.4, m_(f) decreases, reaches a minimum, and then increases again. If
the high-temperature CW behavior in these nearly FM compounds is due to
spin fluctuations associated with itinerant electrons rather than local
moments,20 then the change in m_(f) with x might indicate that itinerant
electron-spin fluctuations are suppressed and local moments start to
form in this composition regime. This process of local-moment formation
is correlated with the onset of electron localization in P-P bonds and
the resulting redistribution of charge within the CoP4 tetrahedra. This
leads to an AFM ground state for 0.6 < x < 0.8. Given the positive
values of _th_CW, this AFM state is presumably A type. The correlation
between the magnetic ordering temperature and the Co-P-Co angle and
Co-Co distance indicates that both superexchange and direct exchange are
important; when the Co-P-Co angle and Co-Co separation reach a maximum,
a FM-like ground state appears and the ordering temperature reaches its
maximum value. Although details of the magnetic structure of this
FM-like ground state are unknown, AFM to FM transitions strongly
correlated with the shape of CoX4 tetrahedra have been seen in other Co
compounds in this structure type.21 For x > 0.9, the P-P bond is fully
formed and the Co-P-Co angle decreases with x, leading to an AFM ground
state with slightly lower _T_N.

In conclusion, our experimental results reveal highly anomalous changes
in crystal structure within the Sr1-_x_Ca2Co2P2 series and correlated
magnetic property changes due to the formation of P-P bonds across the
Sr,Ca layers that are induced by the substitution of smaller Ca2+ for
Sr2+. Due to the continuous nature of the structural changes, the
Sr1-_x_Ca2Co2P2 system offers a unique avenue for exploring the
evolution of pnictide electronic structures from 2D like to
three-dimensional like as a consequence of lattice collapse in the 122
structure type. Further studies such as pressure-dependent magnetic
properties and neutron scattering on the compositions in the critical
regions, would be of interest.

Footnote 21: The authors acknowledge helpful discussions with T.M.
McQueen, J.M. Allred, S.L. Bud’ko, and J.Q. Yan. The work at Princeton
was supported primarily by the U.S. Department of Energy, Division of
Basic Energy Sciences, under Grant No. DE-FG02-98ER45706.

## References

* [1] A. Szytula and J. Leciejewicz, _Handbook of Crystal Structures and
Magnetic Properties of Rare Earth Intermetallics_ (CRC Press, Boca
Raton, Fl, 1994). * [2] R. Hoffmann and C. Zheng, J. Phys. Chem. **89**,
4175 (1985). * [3] Y. Kamihara, T. Watanabe, M. Hirano, and H. Hosono,
J. Am. Chem. Soc. **130**, 3296 (2008). * [4] H. Takahashi, K. Igawa, K.
Arii, Y. Kamihara, M. Hirano, and H. Hosono, Nature (London) **453**,
376 (2008). * [5] M. Rotter, M. Tegel, and D. Johrendt, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**101**, 107006 (2008). * [6] M. Reehuis and W. Jeitschko, J. Phys.
Chem. Solids **51**, 961 (1990). * [7] J. G. Analytis, C. J. Andrew, A.
I. Coldea, A. McCollam, J. H. Chu, R. D. McDonald, I. R. Fisher, and A.
Carrington, Phys. Rev. Lett. **103**, 076401 (2009). * [8] A. I. Coldea,
C. M. J. Andrew, J. G. Analytis, R. D. McDonald, A. F. Bangura, J. H.
Chu, I. R. Fisher, and A. Carrington, Phys. Rev. Lett. **103**, 026404
(2009). * [9] T. Yildirim, Phys. Rev. Lett. **102**, 037003 (2009). *
[10] A. Kreyssig, M. A. Green, Y. Lee, G. D. Samolyuk, P. Zajdel, J. W.
Lynn, S. L. Bud’ko, M. S. Torikachvili, N. Ni, S. Nandi, _et al._, Phys.
Rev. B **78**, 184517 (2008). * [11] M. Reehuis, W. Jeitschko, G.
Kotzyba, B. Zimmer, and X. Hu, J. Alloys Compd. **266**, 54 (1998). *
[12] T. M. McQueen, M. Regulacio, A. J. Williams, Q. Huang, J. W. Lynn,
Y. S. Hor, D. V. West, M. A. Green, and R. J. Cava, Phys. Rev. B **78**,
024521 (2008). * [13] "Powders were mixed at the ratio of
1.1Sr_(1 − x)Ca_(x): 2CoP: 0.1P. Excess Sr, Ca, and P were added to
compensate for high-temperature vaporization. The mixtures were placed
in alumina crucibles and sealed in evacuated silica tubes and then
heated up to 900 ^(∘)C. The results were then pelletized and heated at
1000 ^(∘)C for 12 h. Then the sintered pellets were reground and
subsequently pressed into pellets, which were sintered at 1100 ^(∘)C for
20 h and then 1150 ^(∘)C for 20 h. * [14] B. H. Toby, J. Appl.
Crystallogr. **34**, 210 (2001). * [15] A. C. Larson and R. B. V.
Dreele, Los Alamos National Laboratory, Report No. LAUR 86, 2000
(unpublished). * [16] "Actual Ca content (x_(act)) was scaled to nominal
Ca content (x_(atom)) by the equation: x_(act)=1.04x_(atom)+0.02. * [17]
W. Gerhardt, F. Razavi, J. S. Schilling, D. Huser, and J. A. Myohsh,
Phys. Rev. B **24**, 6744 (1981). * [18] W. Gerhardt, J. S. Schilling,
H. Oliynyk, and J. L. Smith, Phys. Rev. B **28**, 5814 (1983). * [19] S.
Jia, S. L. Bud’ko, G. D. Samolyuk, and P. C. Canfield, Nat. Phys. **3**,
334 (2007). * [20] T. Moriya, _Spin Fluctuations in Itinerant Electron
Magnetism_ (Springer-Verlag, Berlin, 1985). * [21] G. Huan and M.
Greenblatt, J. Less Common Met. **156**, 247 (1989).
