# Tunneling spectroscopy and magnetization measurements

of the superconducting properties of MgB2

Amos Sharoni

Israel Felner

# and Oded Millo

# Racah Institute for Physics, The Hebrew University, Jerusalem 91904,
Israel

26 February 200124 May 2001

###### Abstract

Cryogenic scanning tunneling microscopy and magnetization measurements
were used to study the superconducting properties of MgB2. The
magnetization measurements show a sharp superconductor transition at
T_(c) = 39 K, in agreement with previous works. The tunneling spectra
exhibit BCS-like gap structures, with gap parameters in the range of 5
to 7 meV, yielding a ratio of 2Δ/k_(B)T_(c) - 3 - 4. This suggests that
MgB2 is a conventional BCS s-wave superconductor, either in the
weak-coupling or in the "intermediate-coupling" regime.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.63.220508

PACS number(s): 74.70.Ad, 74.50.+r

The recent discovery[1] of superconductivity at T_(c) ∼ 39 K in the
simple intermetallic compound MgB2 is particularly surprising for many
reasons. This T_(c) is much higher than the highest-T_(c) values
reported for any other intermetallic compound, such as the A 15
compounds (Nb₃Ge, T_(c) = 23.2 K) and the borocarbides (YPd₂B₂C, T_(c) =
23 K), as well as for any non-oxide and non-C₆₀-based material.
Moreover, this transition temperature is above the limit predicted
theoretically for conventional BCS superconductivity in the
weak-coupling regime.[2] Therefore, a question arises regarding the
mechanism for superconductivity in this system. The Boron isotope effect
measured by Bud’ko _et al.[3]_ suggests that MgB2 is a BCS
phonon-mediated superconductor, and also indicates that the high
transition temperature is partly due to the low mass of boron that
yields high phonon frequencies.

Further evidence for BCS superconductivity can be provided by tunneling
spectroscopy, which yield direct information on the quasiparticle
density of states (DOS).[4] Tunneling spectroscopy measurements on MgB2
performed by Rubio-Bollinger _et al._ show a BCS quasiparticle DOS on
small MgB2 grains embedded in a gold matrix.[5] However, the transition
temperature was not reported for their samples and the observed gap
parameter, Δ = 2 meV, correspond via the BCS relation 2Δ/k_(B)T_(c) =
3.53 (Ref. [4]) to a transition temperature of 13.2 K. Karapetrov _et
al._ have presented tunneling spectroscopy data yielding superconductor
gaps that conform with the weak-coupling BCS theory,[6] although their
tunneling spectra exhibited relatively large smearing. Schmidt _et al._
performed point-contact measurements that exhibited a BCS gap structure
with Δ = 4.3 meV, smaller than the BCS prediction. This apparently
smaller value was attributed to a chemically modified surface layer.[7]
On the other hand, NMR (Ref. [8]) and Raman spectroscopy[9] measurements
indicated a bulk gap value which is significantly larger than the BCS
prediction. Here, we present a combined magnetization and tunneling
spectroscopy study of MgB2 with T_(c) = 39 K, as determined by our
magnetization measurements. The tunneling spectra manifest BCS-like gap
structures with gap parameters ranging between 5 to 7 meV, around the
weak coupling BCS prediction for this T_(c), Δ ∼ 5.9 meV.

## 10.163-1829/2001/63(22)/220508(4)/520.00

Stoichiometric ratio of Mg and B elements (99.9

The dc magnetic measurements on solid ceramic pieces in the range of 5 -
45 K were performed in a commercial (Quantum Design) superconducting
quantum interference device magnetometer (SQUID). Figure 1 shows
zero-field-cooled (ZFC) and field-cooled (FC) magnetization curves of
MgB2 measured at 2 Oe. From this figure we obtain T_(c) = 39 K, and the
relatively low values of the FC branch in

Figure 1: ZFC and FC magnetization curves for MgB2 measured at 2 Oe.

dicate strong flux pinning, thus suggesting a very good possibility of
high current superconducting applications for this material.

Figure 2 shows the isothermal magnetization M(H) curves of MgB₂ measured
at various temperatures between 5 and 35 K. The curves are symmetric
with respect to increasing and decreasing of the applied fields, typical
to type II superconductors (for the sake of brevity only the positive
parts are shown). From these curves we can estimate the lower critical
field H_(C1)(0). First, H_(C1)(T) were determined as the magnetic fields
at which a deviation from linearity of the virgin magnetization curves
were observed. The obtained H_(C1)(T) values are plotted in Fig. 3, and
an extrapolation of the data to zero temperature yields the value for
H_(C1)(0), ∼450 Oe. The sample was nearly spherical in shape so no
demagnetizing factor was necessary. From the hysteresis of the
magnetization curves, $\Delta M(\emph{emu/cc})$, we have estimated the
critical current density J_(c) as a function of the external applied
fields at various temperatures, assuming the critical state model (the
Bean model). The values obtained are consistent with data reported in
other papers.[11]

For the tunneling measurements the samples were cleaned with distilled
water in an ultrasonic bath and then dried using highly pure nitrogen
just before mounting in our homemade cryogenic scanning tunneling
microscope (STM). Some of the samples were polished first by
metalographic grinding paper and ending with 0.25 μm diamond
lapping-compound. This polishing procedure had no detectable influence
on our spectroscopic data. The STM was immersed in liquid He right after
evacuating the sample-space, and the sample and the scan head were
cooled down to 4.2 K via He exchange gas. The tunneling spectra, namely,
the I-V and the tunneling conductance dI/dV vs V curves (the latter is
proportional to the local DOS), were acquired while momentarily
disconnecting the feedback circuit. We note that the tunneling
conductance curves measured directly using conventional lock-in
technique were nearly identical to those obtained by numerical
differentiation of the I-V curves. At each position we have checked the
possibility that the gaps in the spectra originated from the Coulomb
blockade and not from superconductivity. This was done by acquiring
spectra at different settings of the tunneling current and sample-tip
bias. The STM setting affects the Coulomb gap, which may even vanish for
particular settings,[13] but not the gap arising from
superconductivity.[14]

In Fig. 4 we present four tunneling I-V and dI/dV vs V characteristics,
showing minimal (a), mid-range (b, c), and maximal (d) gaps observed in
our data. These spectra exhibit a small asymmetry, but can still be fit
well to the Dynes function for tunneling into a BCS (s wave)
superconductor,[15] with gap parameters Δ = 5, 5.2, 5.5, and 7 meV for
spectra (a)-(d), respectively. The lifetime broadening parameters used
in these fits were relatively small, about 0.1 Δ. With the measured
T_(c) = 39 K we obtain that the ratio 2.Δ/k_(B)T_(c) varies between 3.0
to 4.2, around the theoretical value (3.53) for a weak-coupling BCS
superconductor. The gap values were not evenly distributed in this
range, and most of the surface (80

Our tunneling data suggest that MgB₂ is a BCS-type s-wave
superconductor. We found no clear evidence for d-wave superconductivity
in the tunneling spectra, such as zero bias conductance peaks.[16, 17]
Although the measured spectra exhibited, in many cases, some asymmetry,
this effect was much smaller than what is typically observed in the
high-T_(c) cuprates.[16, 18] Such a small asymmetry was predicted to
exist also for s-wave superconductors having specific band
structures.[19] However, in spite of the discussion above, we think that
d-wave superconductivity or any other order parameter symmetry cannot
yet be ruled out. Measurements on clean single crystals are needed for
an unambiguous determination of the order parameter symmetry.

Figure 3: Temperature dependence of the lower critical field H_(c1),
determined as the field at which a deviation from linearity of the
virgin magnetization curve M(H) shown in Fig. 2 is observed.

Figure 2: Isothermal magnetization curves at various temperatures for
MgB₂.

The spatial variation in the measured superconducting gaps described
above does not allow us to determine whether or not MgB₂ is in the
weak-coupling regime, for which 2Δ/k_(B)T_(c)∼ 3.5. Assuming that the
maximal gaps, for which 2Δ/k_(B)T_(c)= 4.2 (observed on a small fraction
of the sample surface), were measured at locations where the surface
material is of the highest purity, then MgB₂ may possibly be in the
"intermediate coupling" regime. This is consistent with the NMR and
Raman measurements mentioned above. [8, 9] On the other hand, the local
enhancement of Δ may result from an effect similar to that causing the
enhancement of T_(c) in granular weak-coupling superconductors. [20]
This latter scenario is consistent with a picture of MgB₂ being in the
weak-coupling regime. We note that the gaps measured in our experiment
are larger than typically measured in other tunneling experiments, [5,
7] although Karapetrov _et al._[6] reported a value of 5.2 meV, which is
within the range observed by us. A distribution of smaller gaps (4−5.2
meV) as well as spectra exhibiting in-gap states (but no zero-bias
conductance peaks) were recently observed by us in measurements
performed on a MgB₂ /Al composite. [21] This observation may be due to
the proximity effect or surface chemical modification, as noted by
Schmidt _et al._[7] The variance in the gap values and gap structures
observed in measurements performed on different MgB₂ samples prepared in
different ways [5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 20, 21] emphasizes the need for
performing measurements on pure single-crystal materials. There, one can
look for possible directional dependence of the tunneling spectra, which
may shed light on the origin of these variations and, more important, on
the coupling mechanism and symmetry of the order parameter in MgB₂.

In summary, we present magnetization measurements confirming that MgB₂
is a type II superconductor with T_(c)∼ 39 K, and H_(C1)(0)∼ 450 Oe.
These data also indicate the existence of strong flux pinning, making
this material a good candidate for high-current applications. Tunneling
spectra measured on MgB₂ reveal a BCS-like quasiparticle DOS, with gap
parameters that vary spatially between 5 to 7 meV, thus 2Δ/k_(B)T_(c)
varies between 3.0 to 4.2. No clear evidence for d-wave symmetry of the
order parameter was found in the tunneling spectra. Our tunneling data
thus indicate that MgB₂ is a BCS s-wave superconductor that may be
either in the weak-coupling or in the "intermediate-coupling" regime.

This research was supported by the BSF (1998), by the Klachky
Foundation, and by the Israel Science Foundation.

## References

* [*] Email address: israela@vms.huji.ac.il * [2] Email address:
milode@vms.huji.ac.il * [3] J. Nagamatsu, N. Nakaawa, T. Muranaka, Y.
Zenitani, and J. Akimitsu, Nature (London) **410**, 63 (2001). * [4]
W.L. McMillan, Phys. Rev. **167**, 331 (1968). * [5] S.L. Bud’ko, G.
Laporteil, C. Petrovic, C.E. Cunningham, N. Anderson, and P.C. Canfield,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **86**, 1877 (2001). * [6] E.L. Wolf, _Principles of
Electron Tunneling Spectroscopy_ (Oxford University Press, New York,
1985). * [7] G. Rubio-Bollinger, H. Suderow, and S. Vieira,
cond-mat/0102242, Phys. Rev. Lett. (to be published). * [8] G.
Karapetrov, M. Iavarone, W.K. Kwok, G.W. Crabtree, and D.G. Hinks, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **86**, 4374 (2001). * [9] H. Shmidt, J.F. Zasadzinski, K.E.
Gray, and D.G. Hinks, cond-mat/0102389 (unpublished). * [10] R.
Kotegawa, K. Ishida, Y. Kitaoka, T. Muranaka, and J. Akimitsu,
cond-mat/0102334 (unpublished). * [11] X.K. Chen, M.J. Konstantinovic,
J.C. Irwin, D.D. Lawrie, and J.P. Franck, cond-mat/0104005
(unpublished). * [12] M.E. Jones and R.E. Marsh, J. Am. Chem. Soc.
**76**, 1434 (1954). * [13] Y. Takano, H. Takeya, H. Fujii, H. Kumakura,
T. Hatano, K. Togano, H. Kito, and H. Ihara, Appl. Phys. Lett. **78**,
2914

Figure 4: I–V characteristics (upper frames) and dI/dV–V tunneling
conductance spectra (lower frames) taken at 4.2 K at different locations
on the surface of MgB₂. The solid curves represent measured data, while
the dotted curves are the fits, shifted for clarity in the I–V curves.
The tunneling conductance spectra are normalized to the normal junction
conductance at a bias larger than the superconductor gap, and the
current scales for the I–V curves are denoted in the figures. (a) shows
a spectrum having the smallest measured gap, Δ= 5 meV, (b) and (c) show
midrange gap structures, Δ= 5.2 and 5.5 meV, respectively, and (d) has
the largest observed gap, Δ= 7 meV. All fits required a Dynes broadening
parameter of ∼0.1Δ.

(2001). * [13] M.M. Roger, A. Guette, and M. Barret, J. Solid State
Chem. **8**, 68 (1973). * [14] A.E. Hanna and M. Tinkham, Phys. Rev. B
**44**, 5919 (1991). * [15] E. Bar-Sadeh and O. Millo, Phys. Rev. B
**53**, 3482 (1996); Y. Levi, O. Millo, A. Sharoni, Y. Tsabba, G.
Leitus, and S. Reich, Europhys. Lett. **51**, 564 (2000). * [16] R.C.
Dynes, V. Narayanamurti, and J.P. Garno, Phys. Rev. Lett. **41**, 1509
(1978). * [17] A. Sharoni, G. Koren, and O. Millo, Europhys. Lett. (to
be published). * [18] Y. Tanaka and S. Kashiwaya, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**74**, 3451 (1995). * [19] A. Yazdani, C.M. Howald, C.P. Lutz, A.
Kapitulnik, and D.M. Eigler, Phys. Rev. Lett. **83**, 176 (1999); J.Y.T.
Wei, C.C. Tsuei, P.J.M. van Bentum, Q. Xiong, C.W. Chu, and M.K. Wu,
Phys. Rev. B **57**, 3650 (1998). * [20] J.E. Hirsch, Phys. Rev. B
**59**, 11 962 (1999); cond-mat/0102115 (unpublished). * [21] R.W. Cohen
and B. Abeles, Phys. Rev. **168**, 444 (1968). * [22] A. Sharoni, O.
Millo, G. Leitus, and S. Reich, cond-mat/0103407, J. Phys. Condens.
Matter (to be published).
