# Specific heat study of the magnetic superconductor HoNi₂B₂C

Tuson Park* and M. B. Salamon

Department of Physics and Material Research Laboratory, University of
Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Illinois 61801, USA

Eun Mi Choi, Heon Jung Kim, and Sung-Ik Lee

National Creative Research Initiative Center for Superconductivity and
Department of Physics, Pohang University of Science and Technology,
Pohang 790-784, Republic of Korea

2 July 2003224 September 200324 September 200 transition _T_* shows a
small in-plane anisotropy and was ascribed to the transition from
_a_*-dominant phase to _c_*-dominant phase. The specific heat jump
related to the superconducting transition was observed at 8 K.

## II Superconductivity

We have used two single crystals of HoNi₂B₂C, labeled sample A and
sample B for the heat-capacity measurements. Both samples were from a
same batch. A high-temperature flux method was used to grow the sample
using Ni₂B as a solvent. The details are described elsewhere.[17]

The heat capacity measured by ac calorimetry[18] was converted to
absolute values using literature data.[63] The upper panel of Fig. 1
shows the specific heat of HoNi₂B₂C vs temperature at zero field. The
three sharp peaks mark the magnetic transitions noted above. The first
transition at 6 K is marked as T_(M), the second at 5.5 K as _T_*, and
the third at 5.2 K as T_(N). There is also a specific heat discontinuity
around 8 K related to superconducting transition but it is too small to
be seen on the same scale.

The bottom panel shows the specific heat discontinuity related to the
superconducting transition in the vicinity of T_(c). The circles
describe the specific heat difference D_C_ = C - C_(n) for B = 0 T, the
triangles for B = 50 mT, and the crosses for B = 100 mT, where C_(n) is
the specific heat in normal state. Data taken at 0.2 T were used as the
normal-state background between 7 K and 9 K because the magnetic
contribution is unaffected at low fields and the superconductivity is
suppressed in that temperature range. In zero field, the transition from
normal to superconducting state occurs at 8.04 K with a narrow
transition width (D_T__T__c_ = 0.04). The transition temperature was
defined as the midpoint of the transition, which is essentially equal to
that found from entropy-conserving method. As the magnetic field
increases, the T_(c) decreases at the rate - 8.3 K/T and the transition
width becomes broadened.

The specific heat jump in zero field is about 110 mJ/mol K. If we use
the BCS relation D_C_/_gTc_ = 1.43, we obtain g = 9.6 mJ/mol K2, small
compared to that of nonmagnetic counterpart, i.e., 18 mJ/mol K2 for
Lu(Y)Ni₂B₂C, possibly indicating a lower density of states _N_(E_(F)) in
HoNi₂B₂C.[19] A spectroscopic study, however, found that the density of
states hardly changes within the borocarbide series (RNi₂B₂C).[20]
Recently, El-Hagary _et al._ found a common correlation between the
specific heat jump D_C_ and the transition temperature T_(c) among
magnetic borocarbide superconductors, i.e., D_C_*_T_2,[21] which
indicates the importance of the magnetic pair breaking. According to
Abrikosov-Gor’kov theory (AG), the exchange interaction between
electrons and magnetic impurity atoms leads to nonconservation of the
electron spin, affecting the formation of Cooper pairs. Assuming g  18
mJ/mol K2 (same as that of Y or Lu based borocarbide) (Ref. [22]), the
ratio D_C_/_gTc_ becomes 0.76. If we assume a 50

It can be speculated that the origin of the small specific heat
discontinuity results from anisotropic superconductivity or a multiband
superconductivity as is the case for the two-gap superconductor
MgB₂.[23, 24, 25, 18, 26] Indeed, there is compelling evidence that the
nonmagnetic members of the borocarbides Lu(Y)Ni₂B₂C are highly
anisotropic or probably nodal superconductors where there exist gap
zeros on the Fermi surface.[27, 28, 29] The positive curvature in the
upper critical field _H_c2 of Lu(Y)Ni₂B₂C close to T_(c) and the
temperature dependence of _H_c2 were successfully explained by using an
effective two-band model.[30] However, the gap anisotropy or multiband
feature is probably irrelevant to the anomalous value of D_C_/_gTc_ in
HoNi₂B₂C because the reported thermodynamic ratio (= 2.3) of LuNi₂B₂C
(Ref. [27]) is much larger than the weak-coupling BCS value (= 1.43) as
well as that of HoNi₂B₂C (= 0.76).

## III Magnetic Phase Transitions

### Magnetic transition at 5.2 K (T_(N))

The top panel of Fig. 2 shows a semilog plot of the specific heat of
HoNi₂B₂C (sample _A_) as a function of temperature at several magnetic
fields _B_∥[100]. The bottom panel of Fig. 2 describes the specific heat
of sample B for _B_∥[110]. The _c_-axis commensurate antiferromagnetic
(AF) transition, labeled T_(N), is lowered with increasing field for
both field directions. When field is higher than 0.4 T, the AF peak
becomes severely broadened, making the data difficult to interpret. The
top panel of Fig. 3 shows the _B_-_T_ phase diagram for this transition
to a Neel state. The critical temperatures T_(N) from C vs T in constant
fields (squares) and the critical fields B_(N) from the isothermal C vs
B at constant tempera

Figure 1: Top panel: the specific heat of sample A in zero field. Bottom
panel: the specific heat discontinuity, D_C_(_B_,_T_) = _C_(_B_,_T_) -
_C_(0.2T,_T_), in the vicinity of T_(c) for B = 0,50,100 mT.

tures (circles; see Figs. 4 and 5) were plotted for both field
directions. There is negligible in-plane B_(N) anisotropy between [100]
and [110] directions. The dashed line is the least-squares fit of B_(N)=
A (1 - T/T_(N))^(0.5) in the vicinity of T_(N), showing Ising-like
behavior.[31, 32] Experimental data were explained well with A = 1.41 +-
0.01 T.

The bottom panel of Fig. 3 shows the hysteresis of the specific heat of
sample B as a function of temperature. The circles describe the data
with increasing temperature while the crosses, with decreasing
temperature. There is no hysteresis in either the 6 K transition T_(M)
nor the 5.5 K transition T^(*). In the AF transition, however, there is
a clear hysteresis where the AF peak was moved from 5.21 K with
increasing temperature to 5.16 K with decreasing temperature. The inset
of the bottom panel shows the dc temperature offset of the sample as a
function of temperature. Depending on the direction of the temperature
sweep, there occurs a sudden jump (or drop) in the dc offset at T_(N), a
consequence of the latent heat associated with the transition. The
rectangle-shaped hysteresis adds additional strong evidence that the
T_(N) transition is first order. This finding is consistent with the
observation of magnetoelastic effects in HoNi₂B₂C, where the length of
the unit cell in [110] direction is shortened by about 0.19

### The 5.5 K magnetic transition (T^(*))

The 5.5 K magnetic transition T^(*) is as sharp as the AF transition,
for sample A at least, indicating it could also be a first-order phase
transition (see Fig. 2). The magnetic-field dependence of the specific
heat is also similar to the T_(N) counterpart, i.e., the critical
temperature decreases with increasing magnetic field. Initially, the
peak intensity at T^(*) becomes stronger with increasing field while
that of the AF transition decreases monotonically, transferring some of
its entropy to the T^(*) transition. Figure 6 shows the B^(*)-T phase
diagram both for B∥[100] (open) and B∥[110] (solid), where B^(*) is the
critical field corresponding to the T^(*) transition. The in-plane B^(*)
anisotropy between [100] and [110] directions is small, similar to the
B_(N) transition. The B^(*) temperature dependence near T^(*) was
explored in terms of the antiferromagnetic theory by Fisher,[31] as was
done in the T_(N) transition. The suppression of the critical
temperature was explained reasonably well by B^(*)= A(1 - T/T^(*))^(0.5)
with A = 1.39 +- 0.01 T (dashed line), a value similar to that of the
T_(N) analysis.

What could be responsible for the 5.5 K transition? Neutron scattering
showed that all three magnetic structures, i.e.,

Figure 3: The top panel describes B_(N)-T phase diagram for B∥[100]
(open symbols) and B∥[110] (solid symbols). The circles represent the
data from isothermal C vs B and the squares, from C vs T in several
fields. The dashed line describes the least-square fit of A(1 -
T/T_(N))^(0.5) with A = 1.41 +- 0.01 T. The bottom panel shows the
specific heat of sample B as a function of temperature in zero field.
The circles represent the data with increasing temperature and the
crosses, with decreasing temperature. Inset: the temperature offset of
the sample as a function of temperature.

Figure 2: The top panel describes the specific heat of sample A as a
function of temperature in several constant fields along [100] and the
bottom panel represents the specific heat of sample B in fields along
[110]. Both plots are on a semilog scale.

c-axis commensurate AF magnetic structure, c-axis AF helical structure,
and a-axis incommensurate structure, coexist between 5 K and 6 K.[3, 35]
In the preceding section, we argued that the 5.2 K transition is due to
the magnetic transition to the c-axis commensurate AF structure T_(N)
and is a first order phase transition. All the similarities between the
5.5 K transition and the 5.2 K transition point toward associating T^(*)
with the c-axis incommensurate AF structure. Then, the next question is,
"Is it a first-order phase transition?" The specific heat at zero field
did not show any noticeable hysteresis with temperature at T^(*) (see
Fig. 3). In the dc temperature offset (see the inset of Fig. 3),
however, there may be a small hysteresis at T^(*), but the feature is
well within the scattered data. Coexistence of the phases also suggests
that it is first order. At this point, it is not clear if the 5.5 K
magnetic transition is a first-order phase transition or not.

### The 6 K magnetic transition (T_(M))

The 6 K magnetic transition (T_(M)) is known to be the onset of a
long-range magnetic order. The precise nature of the T_(M) transition is
not well characterized, although recent work[36] argues that it
represents the onset of the a^(*) modulated phase. In this section, we
present the specific heat as a function of temperature both for
B∥[ [100] and B∥[ [110] directions and confirm that the 6 K transition
is due to the onset of the a-axis incommensurate magnetic structure.

Figure 2 shows a dramatic difference in the critical temperature T_(M)
with magnetic-field directions. For B∥[ [110], the critical temperature
scarcely changes with increasing magnetic field below 0.5 T in agreement
with Detlefs _et al.[36]_ and du Mar _et al.[9]_ In higher fields, it
decreases rapidly as is expected for an antiferromagnetic transition and
the transition shape becomes broadened, making it hard to interpret. For
B∥[ [100], the critical temperature increases with increasing magnetic
field[9] while keeping its transition shape. The

Figure 4: Isothermal specific heat of sample B as a function of magnetic
field at several temperatures for B∥[ [100]. Prominent peaks and
shoulders were marked by arrows. The peaks and shoulders are more
evident on an expanded scale. The transition from superconducting state
to normal state is marked as T_(c). The dotted lines are guides to the
eye.

Figure 5: Isothermal specific heat of sample B as a function of magnetic
field at several temperatures for B∥[ [110]. Prominent peaks and
shoulders were marked by arrows. The peaks (or shoulders) at each
temperature were determined on an expanded scale. The transition from
superconducting state to normal state is marked as T_(c). The dotted
lines are guides to the eye.

Figure 6: B^(*)-T phase diagram for both field directions: open symbols
describe the data for B∥[ [100] and solid symbols for B∥[ [100]. The
squares represent the data obtained from C vs T while the circles, from
isothermal C vs B data. The dashed line describes the least-square fit
of A(1 − Tf^(*))^(0.5) with A = 1.39 ± 0.01 T.

anomalous in-plane anisotropy of T_(M) strongly suggests that the origin
of this transition is very different from the other two magnetic
transitions (T_(N), T^(*)) and is, therefore, due to the onset of the
_a_-axis incommensurate magnetic structure. Detlefs _et al._[36]
recently hypothesized that the _a_* magnetic structure is related to the
FS nesting along [100] direction. Since a distortion along [110]
direction is more disruptive to the nesting feature than a distortion
along [100] direction, it results in the absence of the _a_* phase for
HoNi₂B₂C and DyNi₂B₂C at low temperature and low magnetic field where
local magnetic moments are aligned along [110] directions. If the _a_*
phase is the ground state for 5.5 K ≤ T 6.0 K in HoNi₂B₂C, a magnetic
field applied along [110] will disrupt the magnetic phase while the
field along [100] will not. The anomalous magnetic-field dependence of
specific heat is consistent with this scenario. The enhancement of the
_a_* phase for B∥[100], however, is beyond this explanation.

The top panel of Fig. 7 shows the specific heat data around T_(M) in
several constant magnetic fields from 0 T to 1.5 T for B∥[100]. For
clarity, selective data are shown in the bottom panel, where x axis is
the reduced temperature (1 - _T_/_T__M_) and y axis is the specific heat
divided by the specific heat at T_(M), i.e., C/C_(T_(M)). All of them
collapse onto each other, showing a scaling behavior. The specific heat
near a critical point diverges logarithmically in the two-dimensional
(2D) Ising model while it diverges more strongly, as a power law in the
three-dimensional Ising model.[37] Figure 8 describes the zero-field
magnetic specific heat as a function of the reduced temperature τ(= 1 -
_T_/_T__M_) on a scaling scale. The magnetic specific heat was obtained
by subtracting the lattice and electronic contributions:
C_(M) = C − γT − βT³, where we used g and b values of TmNi₂B₂C.[38] The
higher-temperature side of T_(M) was analyzed in terms of 2D and 3D
Ising model. The dashed line is the best fit of 3D Ising model with a
functional form of A|τ|^(−0.1) + B. The solid line is from 2D Ising
model of −Cln |τ| + D. Both 2D and 3D Ising models can explain the data
over two decades of temperature range, i.e., 3 x 10-3 < T < 3 x 10-1.
When temperature is close enough to T_(M)(= 5.98) K, however, the
specific heat data can be explained better with the logarithmic function
than the power-law dependence. The logarithmic singularity may be
interpreted as a manifestation of two-dimensional spin structure in
HoNi₂B₂C where the Ho³⁺ local moment is confined to the Ho-C basal plane
for temperatures below 100 K.[35] We note that the value of the
coefficient of the logarithmic term C = 3 _J_/mol K is of the order of
magnitude found in the exact theory of 2D Ising antiferromagnets.[39]
The lower-temperature side of T_(M) is severely contaminated by the
adjacent magnetic transition _T_*, rendering analysis difficult.

### Magnetic phase diagram

It has long been known that there is an extreme magnetic anisotropy
associated with the crystalline electric field (CEF) splitting of the
Hund’s rule ground state for the magnetic members of the borocarbide
family _R_Ni₂B₂C (_R_ = Er, Tb, Ho, Dy).[17, 40] The R3+ local moment is
confined to the _R_-C basal plane for temperatures below roughly 100 K,
i.e., temperatures well above the magnetic ordering temperatures. In
addition, a strong in-plane anisotropy has been observed, leading to the
local moments essentially being confined to either [100] (_R_ = Er, Tb)
or [110] (_R_ = Ho, Dy).[41] Therefore,

Figure 8: Magnetic specific heat of sample A as a function of the
reduced temperature τ(= 1 – _T_/_T__M_) in zero field on a semilog
scale. The dashed line is the least square fit of 3D Ising model, i.e.,
A|τ|^(−0.1) + B with A = 9.92 J/mol K and B = −6.68 /mol K. The solid
line represents the least-square fit of 2D Ising model, i.e.,
−Cln |τ| + D with C = 3.0 J/mol K and D = 2.9 J/mol K.

Figure 7: The top panel blows up the specific heat of sample A vs
temperature near T_(M) in several magnetic fields when B∥[100]: from
left to right, 0.1, 0.2, 0.3, 0.4, 0.5, 0.6, 0.7, 0.8, 0.9, 1.0, 1.5 T.
The bottom panel shows a scaling behavior of T_(M) transition where x
axis is the reduced temperature 1 − T/T_(M) and y axis is the normalized
specific heat C/C_(T_(M)), where C_(T_(M)) is the specific heat at
T_(M). For clarity, selective data were shown.

it became necessary to study physical properties as a function of
magnetic-field direction.

Figure 9 summarizes the magnetic phase diagram of HoNi₂B₂C both for
B∥[ 110] (upper panel) and for B∥[ 100] (lower panel) directions based
on specific heat as a function of temperature and magnetic field. The
5.2 K transition T_(N) is due to the commensurate c-axis AF structure
and found to be a first-order phase transition. The critical field B_(N)
(triangles) shows little in-plane anisotropy. The 5.5 K transition T^(•)
is due to the c-axis oscillatory magnetic structure. The in-plane
anisotropy of B^(•) (circles) is small and the nature of the transition
is still controversial. The 6 K transition T_(M) is ascribed to the
onset of the a-axis oscillatory magnetic structure. The in-plane
anisotropy of B_(M) (squares) is very surprising: the critical
temperature decreases with increasing magnetic field for B∥[ 110] while
it increases for B∥[ 100]. The critical temperature T_(M) initially
increases with magnetic field at a rate of 0.48 K/T, then it starts to
bend around at about 1.5 T and decreases (see the inset of the bottom
panel of Fig. 9). The decrease of the critical temperature is expected
for antiferromagnet.[31] The increase, however, is difficult to
understand.

The magnetic phase diagram built from specific heat data is consistent
with the viewpoint of three distinct magnetic transitions between 5
K≈T≈6 K at zero field.[9, 11] At low fields, the critical temperature
T_(M) scarcely changes with magnetic field for B∥[ 110] in agreement
with du Mar _et al.[9]_ while the increase of T_(M) for B∥[ 100] is more
evident, probably due to high-quality single crystal used in this study.
In the high-field regime, our data show a dramatic difference in T_(M)
between the two field directions, i.e., B∥[ 100] and B∥[ 110] as is
evident in Fig. 9 while previous studies drew a conclusion of similar
behavior between the two directions. For B∥[ 110], Ref 9 shows only two
transitions below 5 K, i.e., T_(N) and T^(•). In contrast, our data
clearly show three transitions at the same temperature range. A close
examination reveals that the T^(•) marked transition below 5 K in Ref. 9
corresponds to T_(M) in our phase diagram, indicating that the real
T^(•) transition is missing in that phase diagram.

There has been a speculation of a fourth magnetic phase based on
resistance measurements where there occurs a slope change at 3.8 K for
B∥[ 100].[11] In our bulk measurement, the additional feature was not
observed, suggesting that the 3.8 K feature is an extrinsic property
sensitive to the surface state. Instead, we found an additional phase
line for B∥[ 110], most readily seen as a shoulder in the 4.8 K and 5.0
K data in Fig. 5. It separates the B_(M) and the B^(•) lines and is
merged to B_(M) at 4 K (crosses in the upper panel of Fig. 9). The
origin of this feature has yet to be elucidated.

## IV Magnetic field-angle heat capacity

In nonmagnetic borocarbides, the low-temperature heat capacity directly
measures the electronic density of states.[29] In magnetic systems,
however, the magnetic specific heat dominates. For example, the
electronic and lattice components of the specific heat account for less
than 5

Figure 10 shows the low-field heat capacity vs field angle measured with
respect to the a-axis of HoNi₂B₂C at several different temperatures. The
periodicity of the peaks is 90 deg at all temperatures, indicating that
the peak in the specific heat is simply due to the in-plane anisotropy
between [100] and [110] directions. Canfield _et al._ observed
magnetization modulation as a function of magnetic-field angle at 2
K.[41] The oscillation feature was then interpreted in terms of
metamagnetic states, i.e., (↑  ↑) for B≤B_(c1), (↑   ↑ ↓) for
B_(c1)≤B≪B_(c2), (↑   ↑ →) for B_(c2)≤B≪B_(c3), and (↑   ↑ ↑) for
B≫B_(c3). Here the arrow ↑ is a moment along the

tropy modulation can be explained by the fact that the net moment of
Ho³⁺ ions is directed along ⟨110⟩ directions in the commensurate
antiferromagnetic phase.[35] At 4.8, 5.2, and 5.6 K where helical
magnetic phases appear, the peak positions shifted by 45^(∘) to ⟨110⟩
directions, indicating that the magnetic moments are preferably aligned
along ⟨100⟩ directions. The peak intensities are also asymmetric with
field angle, which may be related to the oscillatory magnetic structures
observed[3, 4, 5] in this temperature range.

Figure 11 shows the field-angle heat capacity at 6.1 K in 0.5, 1, 2, and
4 T. According to the magnetic phase diagram of HoNi₂B₂C (see Fig. 9),
the heat capacity should exhibit monotonic four-fold angular oscillation
at high fields because there is no transition other than the T_(M)
transition nearby this temperature. The peaks along [100] at 0.5 T,
however, were split into two peaks at 1 T and the minima along [110]
were totally flattened out. At 2 T, the distance between the two split
peaks becomes narrower and the flat minima become broad maxima. In 4 T,
the split peaks merge and show a δ function like peak and the broad
maxima at [110] in 2 T returns to a broad minima as was in 0.5 T. Two
satellite peaks appear at ± 12^(∘) of [100] peaks.

The seemingly anomalous peak splittings along [100] may be explained as
following. In 1 T, T_(M) moves from 3.7 K for B∥[110] to 6.5 K for
B∥[100] or T_(M)=3.7+0.031α, where α is the in-plane field angle
measured against the a axis. To move the T_(M) through 6.1 K means a
field angle of 0.4 K/0.031 K deg⁻¹≈ 12.5^(∘), which is consistent with
the peak positions at 10± 1.5. At 2 T, the T_(M) moves from 0 K for
B∥[110] to 6.57 K for B∥[100], predicting 6.3^(∘) of peak splitting.
Experimentally, the observed splitting was 6 ± 1.5^(∘). The larger the
field, the faster the peak has to move in angle. Even though the
anomalous peak splitting could be accounted for in terms of a simple
linear relation between T_(M) and field angle α, the interchange between
minima and maxima at [110] and the satellite peaks in 4 T have yet to be
understood, suggesting that the magnetic phase in high fields is not as
simple as was originally envisaged.

In Fig. 11, the circles describe the data when the in-plane magnetic
field was rotated clockwise and the crosses, when the field was rotated
counterclockwise. In this measurement, the angle spacing between two
data points is 3^(∘). At 0.5 T, the two data sets do not show hysteresis
in phase, but show hysteresis in amplitude with field direction. Above 1
T, there is a systematic shift in phase by ∼3^(∘) with field direction,
indicating that the related transition may be a first-order magnetic
transition. The experimental error bar in determining the field angle is
± 1^(∘), which is less than that of the angle shift in peak positions.
The hysteresis with field-angle direction may be another manifestation
of the first-order nature of the metamagnetic transition from ( ↑  ↑ →)
to ( ↑  ↑ ↑) phases, which were observed in neutron-diffraction study by
Campbell _et al.[42]_

## V Summary

We have studied the magnetic superconductor HoNi₂B₂C via specific heat
as a function of temperature, magnetic field,

Figure 11: Heat capacity of sample B as a function of field angle at 6.1
K in 0.5, 1, 2, 4 T. The circles describe the data with rotating
magnetic field clockwise and the crosses, with rotating field counter
clockwise.

Figure 10: Heat capacity of sample B as a function of field angle at
several temperatures. The magnetic field is rotated within the basal
plane and is measured with respect to a axis. The detailed condition is
marked in each responsible panel.

and magnetic-field angle. The small value of the specific heat
discontinuity at T_(c) indicates that Ho³⁺ ions act as pair breakers as
was predicted in Abrikosov-Gor’kov theory. The temperature hysteresis of
the zero-field specific heat at T_(N) provides direct evidence that the
magnetic AF transition is of first order, accompanying a change from
tetragonal to orthorhombic structure. The similarity of T* transition to
the T_(N) transition indicates that it is due to the c* spiral
structure. The anomalous in-plane anisotropy of T_(M) transition was
explained in terms of the 0.6 a* Fermi-surface nesting feature.

## Acknowledgments

This work at Urbana is supported by NSF Grant No. DMR 99-72087, and the
work at Pohang was supported by the Ministry of Science and Technology
of Korea through the Creative Research Initiative Program. X-ray
measurements were carried out in the Center for Microanalysis of
Materials, University of Illinois, which is partially supported by the
U.S. Department of Energy under Grant No. DEFG02-91-ER45439. T. Park
acknowledges benefits from the discussion with Dr. J. D. Thompson.

## References

* [1] O. Fischer, in _Ferromagnetic Materials_, edited by K.H.J. Buschow
and E.P. Wohlfarth (North-Holland, Amsterdam, 1990), pp. 465-548. * [2]
L.N. Bulaevskii, A.I. Buzdin, M.L. Kulic, and S.V. Panjukov, Adv. Phys.
**34**, 175 (1985). * [3] A.I. Goldman, C. Stassis, P.C. Canfield, J.
Zarestky, P. Dervenaga, B.K. Cho, D.C. Johnston, and B. Sternlieb, Phys.
Rev. B **50**, 9668 (1994). * [4] T.E. Grigereit, J.W. Lynn, Q. Huang,
A. Santoro, R.J. Cava, J.J. Krajewski, and J.W.F. Peck, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**73**, 2756 (1994). * [5] A. Kreyssig, M. Loewenhaupt, K.H. Muller, G.
Fuchs, A. Handstein, and C. Ritter, Physica B **234**, 737 (1997). * [6]
H. Eisaki, H. Takagi, R.J. Cava, B. Batlogg, J.J. Krajewski, J.W.F.
Peck, K. Mizuhashi, J.O. Lee, and S. Uchida, Phys. Rev. B **50**, 647
(1994). * [7] A. Amici and P. Thalmeier, Phys. Rev. B **57**, 10 684
(1998). * [8] A. Amici, P. Thalmeier, and P. Fulde, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**84**, 1800 (2000). * [9] A.C. du Mar, K.D.D. Rathnayaka, D.G. Naugle,
P.C. Canfield, and B.K. Cho, Czech. J. Phys. **46**, 843 (1996),
references therein. * [10] P.C. Canfield, B.K. Cho, D.C. Johnston, and
D.K. Finnemore, Physica C **230**, 397 (1994). * [11] K.D.D. Rathnayaka,
D.G. Naugle, B.K. Cho, and P.C. Canfield, Phys. Rev. B **53**, 5688
(1996). * [12] M. El-Hagary, H. Michor, C. Jambrich, R. Hauser, M.
Galli, E. Bauer, and G. Hilscher, J. Magn. Magn. Mater. **177**, 551
(1998). * [13] M.S. Lin, J.H. Shieh, Y.B. You, W.Y. Guan, H.C. Ku, H.D.
Yang, and J.C. Ho, Phys. Rev. B **52**, 1181 (1995). * [14] J.H. Choi,
H. Doh, E.M. Choi, H.J. Kim, and S.I. Lee, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **70**,
3037 (2001). * [15] A. Dertinger, R.E. Dinnebier, A. Kreyssig, P.W.
Stephens, S. Pagola, M. Loewenhaupt, S. van Smaalen, and H.F. Braun,
Phys. Rev. B **63**, 184518 (2001). * [16] T.A. Wagner, A. Dertinger, W.
Ettig, A. Krause, H. Schmidt, and H.F. Braun, Physica C **323**, 71
(1999). * [17] B.K. Cho, P.C. Canfield, L.L. Miller, D.C. Johnston, W.P.
Beyermann, and A. Yatskar, Phys. Rev. B **52**, 3684 (1995). * [18] T.
Park, M.B. Salamon, C.U. Jung, M.-S. Park, K. Kim, and S.-I. Lee, Phys.
Rev. B **66**, 134515 (2002). * [19] S.A. Carter, B. Batlogg, R.J. Cava,
J.J. Krajewski, and J.W.F. Peck, Phys. Rev. B **51**, 12 644 (1995). *
[20] E. Pellegrin, C.T. Chen, G. Meigs, R.J. Cava, J.J. Krajewski, and
J.W.F. Peck, Phys. Rev. B **51**, 16 159 (1995). * [21] M. El-Hagary, H.
Michor, and G. Hilscher, Phys. Rev. B **61**, 11 695 (2000). * [22] H.
Michor, T. Holubar, C. Dusek, and G. Hilscher, Phys. Rev. B **52**, 16
165 (1995). * [23] S. Haas and K. Maki, Phys. Rev. B **65**, 020502
(2001). * [24] T. Mishonov and E. Penev, Int. J. Mod. Phys. B **16**,
3573 (2002). * [25] F. Bouquet, Y. Wang, I. Sheikin, T. Plackowski, A.
Junod, S. Lee, and S. Tajima, Phys. Rev. Lett. **89**, 257001 (2002). *
[26] H.D. Yang, J.-Y. Lin, H.H. Li, F.H. Hsu, C.J. Liu, S.-C. Li, R.-C.
Yu, and C.-Q. Jin, Phys. Rev. Lett. **87**, 167003 (2001). * [27] M.
Nohara, M. Isshiki, H. Takagi, and R.J. Cava, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **66**,
1888 (1997). * [28] E. Boaknin, R.W. Hill, C. Proust, C. Lupien, and L.
Taillefer, Phys. Rev. Lett. **87**, 237001 (2001). * [29] T. Park, M.B.
Salamon, E.M. Choi, H.J. Kim, and S.-I. Lee, Phys. Rev. Lett. **90**,
177001 (2003). * [30] S.V. Shulga, S.L. Drechsler, G. Fuchs, K.H.
Muller, K. Winzer, M. Heinecke, and K. Krug, Phys. Rev. Lett. **80**,
1730 (1998). * [31] M.E. Fisher, Proc. R. Soc. London **A254**, 66
(1960). * [32] B.E. Keen, D. Landau, B. Schneider, and W.P. Wolf, J.
Appl. Phys. **37**, 1120 (1966). * [33] A. Kreyssig, M. Loewenhaupt, J.
Freudenberger, K.H. Muller, and C. Ritter, J. Appl. Phys. **85**, 6058
(1999). * [34] P.R. Garnier, Ph.D. thesis, University of Illinois,
1972. * [35] J.W. Lynn, S. Skanthakumar, Q. Huang, S.K. Sinha, Z.
Hossain, L.C. Gupta, R. Nagrajan, and C. Godart, Phys. Rev. B **55**,
6584 (1997). * [36] C. Detlefs, F. Bourdarot, P. Burlet, P. Dervenaga,
S.L. Bud’ko, and P.C. Canfield, Phys. Rev. B **61**, R14 916 (2000). *
[37] L.P. Kadanoff, W. Gotze, D. Hamblen, R. Hecht, E.A.S. Lewis, V.V.
Palciauskas, M. Rayl, J. Swift, D. Aspnes, and J. Kane, Rev. Mod. Phys.
**39**, 395 (1967). * [38] R. Movshovich, M.F. Hundley, J.D. Thompson,
P.C. Canfield, B.K. Cho, and A.V. Chubukov, Physica C **227**, 381
(1994). * [39] L. Onsager, Phys. Rev. **65**, 117 (1944). * [40] B.K.
Cho, P.C. Canfield, and D.C. Johnston, Phys. Rev. B **53**, 8499
(1996). * [41] P.C. Canfield, S.L. Bud’ko, B.K. Cho, A. Lacerda, D.
Farrel, E. Johnston-Halperin, V.A. Kalatsky, and V.L. Pokrovsky, Phys.
Rev. B **55**, 970 (1997). * [42] A.J. Campbell, D.M. Paul, and G.J.
McIntyre, Phys. Rev. B **61**, 5872 (2000).
