(^119Sn Mossbauer spectroscopy in the magnetic superconductor (Ru,
Sn)Sr₂GdCu₂O₈

Ada Lopez, I. Souza Azevedo, J. E. Musa, and E. Baggio-Saitovitch

Centro Brasileiro de Pesquisas Fisicas, Rua Dr. Xavier Sigaud 150, Urca,
CEP 22290-180, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil

S. Garcia Garcia

Laboratorio de Superconductividad, Facultad de Fisica, Universidad de La
Habana, San Lazaro y L, CP 10400, Ciudad de La Habana, Cuba

2 May 200 was reacted in flowing nitrogen at 1010 degC for 12 h.
Sintering was performed at 1050 degC for 4 days in flowing oxygen,
followed by cooling at a rate of 45 degC/h. The room-temperature x-ray
diffraction patterns were collected in an automatic Rygaku powder
diffractometer in step-scanning mode (20deg 2 O 80deg). Bars of
approximately 1 x 1 x 12 mm3 were cut. The dc resistivity (four-probe
method) was measured from RT down to 4.2 K in a computer data-logger
system, using a Keithley 224 high-precision current source and a
Keithley 181 nanovoltmeter. Isothermal magnetization at 5 K up to 5 T
and dc magnetic susceptibility measurements at 5 Oe were performed in a
Quantum Design superconducting quantum interference device (SQUID)
magnetometer. The Mossbauer spectra (MS) were collected from RT down to
4.2 K in transmission geometry using a conventional spectrometer in
constant acceleration mode and a BaSnO3 source, to which the obtained
isomer shift (_d_) values are referred. From a calibration spectrum
using a Sn foil a linewidth (full width at half maximum) G = 1.14 mm/s
was obtained.

## III Results and Discussion

Figure 1 shows the XRD patterns for the parent compound (a) and for the
two extremes of the doped (Ru1-xSn3)Sr2GdCu2O8 series, with x = 0.05 (b)
and x = 0.30 (c). No spurious lines were observed for x = 0, 0.05, and
0.10. There was no evidence of the itinerant ferromagnet SrRuO3 in any
of the samples: however, the cubic nonmagnetic perovskite SrSnO3
[intensity lines indicated by dots in Fig. 1(c)] was detected for the
samples with x = 0.20 and 0.30.

The magnetic parameters are summarized in Table 1. The coercive fields
_H_co and the remanent moments m_(r) , as determined from the hysteresis
loops at 5 K, decrease regularly with the increase in Sn content. Figure
2 shows the temperature dependence of the resistivity for the samples
with x = 0.05 and 0.30. The onset superconducting transition
temperatures T_(C) , taken as the maxima in the resistivity curves, were
33 and 11 K, respectively. Both values are lower than T_(C) for
RuSr2GdCu2O8 (45 K). We note that the normal-state resistivity is lower
for x = 0.30. The inset in Fig. 2 shows the temperature dependence of
the magnetic susceptibility for the sample with x = 0.05, with a
magnetic transition temperature T_(M) = 123 K (maximum in the
derivative). The relevant point from these results is that the
superconducting transition is preserved even for high effective Sn
concentrations in the Ru-(1212) matrix. This again is consistent with Sn
substituting Ru, since superconductivity is strongly affected in
conventional cuprates when Sn replaces Cu in the CuO2 layers [13],
reaching a complete suppression of T_(C) already for x = 0.03. Probably
the long final sintering precludes cation intermixing between Ru and Sn
with Cu. In summary, structural, magnetic, and resistivity measurements
suggest that Sn occupies Ru sites.

Figure 3 shows the MS at RT obtained for the samples with x = 0.05,
0.10, 0.20, and 0.30. We analyzed our data with one symmetric doublet
(site I) and a single line (site II). The results are summarized in
Table 2. The first point to consider is the origin of the singlet
observed in the MS for the samples with nominal concentrations x = 0.05
and 0.10. The almost vanishing isomer shift with respect to the BaSnO3
source suggests the presence of SrSnO3 . We believe that a small amount
of this compound, undetectable from XRD experiments, but giving a
sizable signal to the MS, is the origin of the singlet. The fact that
for x = 0.20 and 0.30 the lines of SrSnO3 become detectable in the
diffraction patterns agrees with this idea. The rest of the Sn atoms is
assumed to enter into the Ru-(1212) matrix, and the effective Sn content
_x_eff for the nominal concentrations x = 0.05, 0.10, 0.20, and 0.30 are
_x_eff = 0.045, 0.074, 0.10, and 0.14, respec

Figure 1: X-ray diffraction patterns for the RuSr2GdCu2O8 parent
compound (a) and the two extremes of the doped (Ru1−xSn3)Sr2GdCu2O8
samples, with nominal compositions x = 0.05 (b) and x = 0.30 (c). The
peaks of the SrSnO3 secondary phase are indicated by dots.

tively. Here we have assumed that the Debye-Waller factors of the
doublet and singlet are the same at RT. This assumption is supported by
the fact that the absorption area ratio between the doublet and singlet
does not change going from RT to 4.2 K (see below). The values of the
quadrupole splittings (D_E__q_) of the doublet for the Ru-(1212) system
are higher than for SnO2 and similar to those obtained for Sn-doped
conventional cuprates.

A set of MS was collected for the x = 0.05 sample between RT and 4.2 K
as can be seen in Fig. 4. The broadened spectrum obtained at 123 K is an
indication that a transferred magnetic hyperfine field (B_(H)) starts to
appear at this temperature. On cooling below T_(M) = 123 K there is a
continuous evolution towards a defined magnetic structure. This T_(M)
value corresponds to the one obtained from the bulk magnetic transition
temperatures. This is a strong indication that the Sn nuclei are sensing
the long-range order of the Ru moments.

Figure 5(a) shows the MS collected at 4.2 K for samples with different x
values. In order to fit these spectra three components were needed: (1)
the singlet already present in the RT spectra, (2) a quadrupole doublet,
and (3) a magnetically split spectrum. The latter was fitted with a
magnetic hyperfine field distribution _P_(B_(H)). The corresponding
_P_(B_(H)) distributions are shown in Fig. 5(b), with maximum

Table 3: Mössbauer hyperfine parameters obtained at 4.2 K for the
(Ru_(1 − x)Sn_(x)) Sr₂GdCu₂O₈ samples. δ= isomer shift relative to
¹¹⁹Sn/BaSnO₃ source, ΔE_(q)= quadrupole splitting, $B_{\rm hf}$= average
value of hyperfine magneticfield, and A = relative absorption area.

the ruthenocuprates. Since in these compounds the long-range magnetic
order is established at T_(M)^(9  >)T_(C), SC onsets are well within the
canted AF state leading to a weak ferromagnetism state. This situation
has led to Fulde-Farrell-Larkin-Ovchinnikov- (FFLO-) type theories,[21]
where the SC and FM order parameters exhibit spatial variations to
accommodate each other. According to _nanoscale_ theory for SC-FM
superlattices, the so called π-phase SC order parameter changes its
phase by π from one SC layer (CuO₂ planes in our case) to another, with
a node at the FM intermediary one (RuO₂ planes). This will strongly
decrease the pair-breaking effect expected from the magnetic order,
allowing the onset of a bulk coherent SC state along c axis.[22]
However, a π phase has been predicted to occur only if the FM layer
fulfills two requirements: (a) it must be extremely thin and (b) a
certain critical high value of the magnetization _in the layer_ must be
exceeded.[23] Similar results have been recently obtained for
superconducting-antiferromagnetic interfaces, concerning the exchange
field in the AF layer.[24] Since the ruthenocuprates represent the first
atomic-scale SC-FM or SC-AF system (ferromagnetic canting of a
long-range AF order or ferrimagnetic order of Ru⁴ ⁺ and Ru⁵ ⁺ states),
the first point is satisfactorily accomplished (∼2 A for the RuO₂
layer). The second one seems to require a more careful consideration,
because local fields of only ∼600-700 Oe have been determined at the Gd
site by electron spin resonance (ESR) (Ref. [25]) and at the muon site
in μ ⁺SR measurements[4] (the so-called "apical site" of the structure,
as in YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ)). However, exchange fields may be relevant, and
the magnetization at the RuO₂ layer might be considerably higher. Our
extrapolated value of ∼4.9 T at 4.2 K for the average field at the Sn
sites gives an _on-site_ estimation of the _in-plane_ field in the RuO₂
layers, which can be considered as a lower limit, due to its transferred
nature. Since Sn carries no atomic moment, the interpretation of this
field is more straightforward than in the case for ⁵⁷Fe-Mossbauer
studies, where a comparison between the Ru-Fe and Ru-Ru exchange
strengths is needed.[26]

Since the strength of the SC coupling between the CuO₂ planes is not
known, the threshold value for the _in-plane_ field cannot be
determined, but our results could indicate that π-phase formation may be
favored in the Ru-(1212) system.

## IV Conclusions

¹¹⁹Sn-Mossbauer spectra have been measured in the Sn:Ru-(1212) system.
We have provided evidence indicating that Ru is substituted by Sn⁴ ⁺
ions at the RuO₂ layers. Effective Sn concentrations as high as around
15 at.

###### Acknowledgements.

We thank CAPES-Brazil, FAPERJ-Brazil, _Cientista do Nosso Estado_,
UNA-Paraguay, and CLAF for financial support, CNPq/PCI, W. Vanoni for
assistance with x-ray diffraction measurements, and Dr. H. Micklitz,
Universitat zu Koln, for his collaboration and helpful discussions.

## References

* [*] Corresponding author. Electronic address: adalopez@cbpf.br * [2]
L. Bauernfeind, W. Widder, and H. F. Braun, Physica C **254**, 151
(1995). * [3] L. Bauernfeind, W. Widder, and H. F. Braun, J. Low Temp.
Phys. **105**, 1605 (1996). * [4] C. W. Chu, Y. Y. Xue, S. Tsui, J.
Cmaidalka, A. K. Heilman, B. Lorenz, and R. L. Meng, Physica C **335**,
231 (2000). * [5] C. Bernhard, J. L. Tallon, Ch. Niedermayer, Th.
Blasius, A. Golnik, E. Brucher, R. K. Kremer, D. R. Noakes, C. E.
Stronach, and E. J. Ansaldo, Phys. Rev. B **59**, 14 099 (1999). * [6]
J. L. Tallon, J. W. Loram, G. V. M. Williams, and C. Bernhard, Phys.
Rev. B **61**, R6471 (2000). * [7] C. Bernhard, J. L. Tallon, E.
Brucher, and R. K. Kremer, Phys. Rev. B **61**, R14 960 (2000). * [8] J.
L. Tallon, C. Bernhard, and J. W. Loram, J. Low Temp. Phys. **117**, 823
(1999). * [9] J. E. McCrone, J. R. Cooper, and J. L. Tallon, J. Low
Temp. Phys. **117**, 1199 (1999). * [10] K. Kumagai, S. Takada, and Y.
Furukawa, Phys. Rev. B **63**, 180509 (2001). * [11] R. S. Liu, L. Y.
Jang, H. H. Hung, and J. L. Tallon, Phys. Rev. B **63**, 212507
(2001). * [12] A. C. McLaughlin and J. P. Attfield, Phys. Rev. B **60**,
14 605 (1999). * [13] A. C. McLaughlin, V. Janowitz, J. A. McAllister,
and J. P. Attfield, Chem. Commun. (Cambridge) **14**, 1331 (2000); J.
Mater. Chem. **11**, 173 (2001). * [14] T. Shinjo, T. Mizutani, N.
Hosoito, T. Kusuda, T. Takabatake, K. Matsukuma, and H. Fujii, Physica C
**159**, 869 (1989). * [15] J. D. Jorgensen, O. Chmaissem, H. Shaked, S.
Short, P. W. Klamut, B. Dabrowski, and J. L. Tallon, Phys. Rev. B
**63**, 054440 (2001). * [16] Y. Tokunaga, H. Kotegawa, K. Ishida, Y.
Kitaoka, H. Takagiwa, and J. Akimitsu, Phys. Rev. Lett. **86**, 5767
(2001). * [17] B. J. Evans and L. J. Swartzendruber, Phys. Rev. B **6**,
223 (1972). * [18] M. Breuer, B. Buchner, H. Micklitz, E.
Baggio-Saitovitch, I. Souza Azevedo, R. Scorzelli, and M. M.
Abd-Elmeguid, Z. Phys. B: Condens. Matter **92**, 331 (1993). * [19] M.
M. Abd-Elmeguid, J. Olejniczak, Ch. Sauer, and W. Zinn, Solid State
Commun. **83**, 295 (1992). * [20] M. Pasternak and R. D. Taylor, Solid
State Commun. **73**, 33 (1990). * [21] R. J. Cava, J. J. Krajewski, H.
Takagi, H. W. Zandbergen, R. B. Van Dover, W. F. Peck, Jr., and B.
Hessen, Physica C **191**, 237 (1992).

* [21] P. Fulde and R. A. Ferrell, Phys. Rev. **135**, A550 (1964); A.
I. Larkin and Yu. N. Ovchinnicov, Sov. Phys. JETP **20**, 762 (1965). *
[22] W. E. Pickett, R. Weht, and A. B. Shick, Phys. Rev. Lett. **83**,
3713 (1999). * [23] V. Prokic, A. I. Buzdin, and L.
Dobrosavljevic-Grujic, Phys. Rev. B **59**, 587 (1999). * [24] Y.
Kanegae and Y. Ohashi, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **70**, 2124 (2001). * [25] A.
Fainstein, E. Winkler, A. Butera, and J. Tallon, Phys. Rev. B **60**,
R12 597 (1999). * [26] I. Felner, U. Asaf, Y. Levi, and O. Millo, Phys.
Rev. B **55**, R3374 (1997).
