# Superconductivity at 9 K in Mo₅PB₂ with evidence for multiple gaps

Michael A. McGuire

McGuireMA@ornl.gov Materials Science and Technology Division, Oak Ridge
National Laboratory, Oak Ridge, Tennessee 37831, USA

David S. Parker

Materials Science and Technology Division, Oak Ridge National
Laboratory, Oak Ridge, Tennessee 37831, USA

Received 1 December 2015; revised manuscript received 25 January 2016;
published 9 February 2016

###### Abstract

Superconductivity is observed with critical temperatures near 9 K in the
tetragonal compound Mo₅PB₂. This material adopts the Cr₅B₃ structure pre
common to superconducting Nb₅Si_(3 − x)B_(x), Mo₅SiB₂, and W₅SiB₂, which
have critical temperatures of 5.8-7.8 K. We have synthesized
polycrystalline samples of the compound, made measurements of electrical
resistivity, magnetic susceptibility, and heat capacity, and performed
first-principles electronic structure calculations. The highest T_(c)
value (9.2 K) occurs in slightly phosphorus rich samples, with
composition near Mo₅P_(1, 1),B_(1.9), and the upper critical field
H_(c2) at T = 0 is estimated to be ≈17 kOe. Together, the measurements
and band-structure calculations indicate intermediate coupling
(λ = 1.0), phonon mediated superconductivity. The temperature dependence
of the heat capacity and upper critical field H_(c2) below T_(c) suggest
multiple superconducting gaps may be present.

2016 10.1103/PhysRevB.93.064507 2016 10.1103/PhysRevB.93.064507

## I Introduction

The tetragonal Cr₅B₃ structure type is adopted by a wide variety of
binary and ternary compounds with examples incorporating at least 47
different elements spanning the main group, transitions metals, and
rare-earth metals [1]. One of the more interesting subsets of these
compounds is the ternary borides with stoichiometries M₅XB₂, with X =
P,Si. These are reported to form with many transition metals (M)
including the 3d transition metals from V to Co, the 4d transition
metals Nb and Mo, and the 5d transition metal W. Mn₅SiB₂ and Mn₅PB₂ are
ferromagnets with Curie temperatures near room temperature and are of
interest for magnetocaloric applications [2,3]. Fe₅SiB₂ and Fe₅PB₂ are
uniaxial ferromagnets with high Curie temperatures, and a low
temperature spin reorientation in the case of the silicide, and have
been studied as potential permanent magnet materials [4, 5, 6, 7]. In
striking contrast to these high-temperature ferromagnets, the 4d and 5d
compounds Nb₅SiB₂, Mo₅SiB₂, and W₅SiB₂ are superconductors with
transition temperatures of 7.2, 5.8, and 5.8 K, respectively [8, 9, 10].
The occurrence of superconductivity in these borosilicate compounds
brings to mind other well-known boron-containing, phonon-mediated
superconductors, including the borocarbides RT₂B₂C (R = rare-earth
element, T = Ni, Pd, Pt) [11] and magnesium diboride MgB₂[12].

The observation of superconductivity in several examples of Cr₅B₃-type
compounds with the 512 stoichiometry suggests that further examination
may produce more examples in this relatively new group of
superconductors [9]. In the present work, we have studied the analogous
Mo₅PB₂, and find that it too is a superconductor. The superconducting
critical temperature (T_(c)) is determined to be as high as 9.2 K. This
is the highest T_(c) yet reported for superconductors in this structure
type. In addition to measurements of resistivity, magnetic
susceptibility, and heat capacity, we report results of first-principles
calculations that reveal the presence of multiple bands crossing the
Fermi level in this borophosphate and the related borosilicides, as seen
in, for example, the iron-based superconductors including the phosphide
LaFePO [13], as well as MgB₂[14]. Calculations indicate the coupling in
Mo₅PB₂ is in the intermediate limit (i.e., the electron-phonon coupling
λ ≈ 1). Analysis of the heat-capacity and upper critical field data
suggests the presence of two distinct energy gaps. Together the
experimental and theoretical results indicate that Mo₅PB₂ may be a
multiband superconductor.

## II Procedures

Polycrystalline samples with nominal compositions Mo₅P_(0.9)B_(2.1),
Mo₅PB₂, and Mo₅P_(1.1)B_(1.9) were prepared from hydrogen-reduced
molybdenum powder (99.999

Powder x-ray diffraction was performed using monochromatic Cu K_(a1)
radiation with a PANalytical X’Pert Pro diffractometer and analyzed
using the Rietveld technique with the fullprof software package [18].
Magnetization measurements were performed with a Quantum Design magnetic
property measurement system (MPMS) and physical property measurement
system (PPMS). The PPMS was also used for measurements of electrical
resistivity and heat capacity. The heat-capacity data were analyzed
using both the conventional relaxation method employing small heat
pulses (temperature rise of 2

First-principles density functional theory calculations of the
electronic structure of Mo₅PB₂ were performed using the linearized
augmented plane-wave (LAPW) code WIEN2K [20], employing the generalized
gradient approximation of Perdew, Burke, and Ernzerhof [21]. LAPW sphere
radii of 2.41, 2.08, and 1.7 bohrs, respectively for Mo, P, and B were
chosen with an $RK_{\rm max}$ of 7.0, where $RK_{\rm max}$ is the
product of the smallest sphere radius and the largest plane-wave
expansion wave vector. Internal coordinates were relaxed until forces on
the ions were less than 2 mRy/bohr.

## III Results and Discussion

Rietveld analysis showed the resulting purity of the samples to be 92,
89, and 92

Table 1 contains the refined crystallographic properties of the Mo₅PB₂
phase in each sample. Allowing mixed occupation of P and B on their
respective sites suggested some P may reside on the B site, but did not
indicate any mixing of B onto the P site. The compositions determined
from the refined occupancies are listed in the table. Adding excess P
(relative to Mo₅PB₂) appears to significantly increase the P content of
the main phase, as indicated by both the refined composition as well as
the increase in the unit-cell volume. Addition of excess B had no
detectable effect on the atomic site occupancies (relative to Mo₅PB₂)
and produced only a small decrease in the unit-cell volume. These
observations indicate that there is some phase width in Mo₅PB₂ with
respect to the P and B ratio, a common feature in this structure type
[7, 8, 22, 23, 24], and that in this case excess P is favored.

Figures 1(b) and 1(c) show the ac magnetic susceptibility and
resistivity measured below 10 K. All of the samples are superconducting.
Values of T_(c) are determined by the onset of diamagnetism [Fig. 1(b)]
and the temperature at which the resistivity reaches zero [Fig. 1(c)].
These are listed for each sample in Table 1. Similar values of T_(c) =
8.7-8.9 K are seen in the Mo₅P_(0.9)B_(2.1) and Mo₅PB₂ samples, which
have similar stoichiometries as discussed above. A higher value of T_(c)
= 9.2 K is seen in Mo₅P_(1.1)B_(1.9). This demonstrates the sensitivity
of the superconductivity to the chemical composition of the Mo₅PB₂
phase. Further experimental analysis presented here will focus primarily
on the Mo₅P_(1.1)B_(1.9) sample. The T_(c) values seen in these
materials are the highest yet reported in this class of ternary
superconductors, which include Mo₅SiB₂ (T_(c) = 5.8 K) [9], Nb₅SiB₂
(T_(c) = 7.2 K) [9], W₅SiB₂ (T_(c) = 5.8 K) [10], W_(5 − x)Ta_(x)SiB₂
(T_(c) = 6.5 K) [25], and the closely related Nb₅Si_(2.4)B_(0.6) (T_(c)
= 7.8 K) [22].

Figure 2 shows the results of magnetization measurements on
Mo₅P_(1.1)B_(1.9). The dc measurements were conducted in 10 Oe field,
and the ac magnetization measurements were conducted in a dc field of 10
Oe using a frequency of 1 kHz and an ac excitation field of 5 Oe. The
superconducting transition is marked by the onset of diamagnetism in the
dc susceptibility (χ_(dc)) and the real part of the ac susceptibility
(χ^(′)), while the imaginary part (χ^(′′)) peaks just below T_(c). The
large diamagnetic signal in both field-cooled (fc) and zero-field-cooled
(zfc) measurements demonstrates the bulk nature of the
superconductivity. Complete magnetic-flux exclusion corresponds to a
volume susceptibility of −1/4π in the units used here. This corresponds
to a mass susceptibility of 0.0089 cm³/g using the single-crystal
density of 8.97 g/cm³ determined from the structure refinements
presented above. Thus, the shielding fraction indicated by the data in
Fig. 2(a) exceeds unity by almost a factor of 2. This may be attributed
to geometrical and demagnetization effects in these samples, which were
loosely compacted powders in irregular shapes. A shielding volume
fraction of 120

Resistivity data for polycrystalline Mo₅P_(1.1)B_(1.9) are shown in Fig.
3. The residual resistivity ratio is ρ_(2K)^(2T)/ρ_(300K) = 11,
relatively high considering the polycrystalline nature of the sample.
The resistivity varies like T^(2.4) above T_(c) up to about 60 K. Above
about 100 K, ρ(T) displays a negative curvature rather than the linear
behavior expected for most metals.

Figure 1: The crystal structure of Mo₅PB₂ is shown in (a) along with
results of Rietveld refinement of powder x-ray-diffraction data from a
sample with nominal composition Mo₅P_(1.1)B_(1.9). The ticks locate
Bragg reflections from the main phase (92

The normal-state temperature dependence is similar to that reported for
Mo₅SiB₂[9] and W₅SiB₂[10], and the negative curvature at higher
temperatures has been observed as a common feature in a variety of
chemically related compounds, based on Mo₅X₃ (x= Si, B, C) [26]. This
behavior is also seen in the A15-type superconductors, where Fisk and
Webb concluded that resistivity saturation results from the approach to
the Mott-Ioffe-Regel limit [27]. This occurs when the electron mean free
path reaches a minimum value defined by the lattice constant [28, 29].
Gurvitch [30] cast the resulting relationship between the saturation
resistivity $\rho_{\rm sat}$ in μΩ cm, the carrier concentration n in
cm⁻³, and lattice parameter a in A (assuming cubic symmetry) into the
following useful form: $\rho_{\rm sat}=1.29\times 10^{18}/(n^{2/3}a)$μΩ
cm. Hall effect measurements on Mo₅P_(1.1)B_(1.9) give a Hall
coefficient of R_(H) ≈ −3.1 × 10⁻⁴ cm³/C. From this, in a simple
one-band model, a carrier concentration of 2 × 10²² electrons per cm³ is
inferred. Using this value of n and the average lattice constant of
(2a+c)/3 = 7.7 A gives $\rho_{\rm sat}=230$μΩ cm. The resistivity data
in Fig. 3 exceed this value by about 60

Resistivity data collected in applied magnetic fields are shown in the
upper inset of Fig. 3. In zero field the resistive transition is very
sharp, with a width of ≲ 0.1 K. The transition broadens as magnetic
field is applied, with the width increasing to 0.7 K at 12.5 kOe. This
is typical behavior of a type-II superconductor. From the resistivity
data, the field dependence of T_(c) is obtained, where T_(c) is defined
as the temperature

Figure 3: Resistivity of Mo₅P_(1.1)B_(1.9) in zero applied magnetic
field is shown in the main panel. The upper inset shows the effect of
magnetic field on T_(c), which is plotted in the lower inset. The lower
inset also includes data from the Mo₅PB₂ sample for comparison.

Figure 2: Results from (a) dc and (b) ac magnetization measurements on
Mo₅P_(1.1)B_(1.9). The dc data show both zero-field-cooled (zfc) and
field-cooled (fc) results. The ac data were collected in zfc mode and
both the real (χ^(∘)) and imaginary (χ^(∘)) parts of the ac
susceptibility are shown. The superconducting transition temperature
T_(c) determined by the onset of diamagnetism is indicated by the dashed
line.

at which ρ → 0. The results are shown in the lower inset of Fig. 3,
which also include results from the same analysis applied to the sample
of nominal composition Mo₅PB₂. From these data, an upper critical field
H_(c2)(0) of ≈17 kOe can be estimated. This is significantly larger than
in the closely related superconductors Mo₅SiB₂ and W₅SiB₂, for which
values of 6 and 5 kOe, respectively, are reported [9,10]. Nearly linear
behavior, with a slight positive curvature near H = 0, is observed up to
fields of 12.5 kOe in Fig. 3. Fitting this range gives a slope of −2.1
kOe/T. From this value, the WHH expression
H_(c2)(0) = −0.693T_(c)(d H_(c2)/dT)|_(T = T_(c)) gives H_(c2)(0) = 13
kOe. This is not compatible with the resistivity data collected at
H = 15 kOe (Fig. 3), for which T_(c) ≈ 1.5 K can be estimated (Fig. 3).
This discrepancy is a direct result of the nearly linear relationship
between magnetic field and T_(c) over a wide range of fields. A similar
shape of H_(c2) vs T_(c) is seen in W₅SiB₂[10], but reports for Mo₅SiB₂
show clear negative curvature over most of the temperature range [9],
more consistent with expectations based on the WHH theory. The observed
temperature dependence of the upper critical field H_(c2) in
polycrystalline Mo₅PB₂ may be an indication of contributions from
multiple superconducting gaps arising from underlying crystalline
anisotropy or from multiple superconducting bands. Similar shapes have
been observed in several multigap superconductors including
polycrystalline MgB₂[31] and LaFeAsO_(0.89)P_(0.11)[32], and single
crystals of borocarbides [33], dichalcogenides [34,35], and more
recently TlNi₂Se₂[36].

Results of heat-capacity measurements on Mo₅P_(1.1)B_(1.9) are shown in
Fig. 4. Rietveld refinement of the powder x-ray-diffraction data shows
that this sample contains 7 wt

At 300 K the heat capacity of Mo₅P_(1.1)B_(1.9) reaches 86

Results of electronic band-structure calculations are shown in Fig.
5(a). Six bands are observed to cross the Fermi level, with several
bands contributing strongly to the the total density of states (DOS).
The partial Fermi-level DOS in these bands (per unit cell per eV, both
spins) is found to be 2.06, 4.66, 1.90, 1.10, 0.96, and 0.04, for a
total Fermi level DOS N(E_(F)) of 10.7 /eV/unit cell. With 10 Mo per
unit cell and the majority of the DOS being Mo [Fig. 5(b)], N(E_(F)) is
somewhat enhanced relative to elemental Mo itself, which has N(E_(F)) of
0.65 eV [40], but not to a degree that would suggest a magnetic
instability. This argues in favor of a phononic pairing mechanism.

The value of γ determined from the calculated band structure [Fig. 5(a)]
is 1.57 mJ/mol at./K². This is significantly lower than the observed
value of 3.16 mJ/mol at./K². This

  Composition              Mo₅P_(1.1)B_(1.9)   Mo₅PB₂   Mo₅SiB₂[9]   W₅SiB₂[10]
  ----------------------- ------------------- -------- ------------ ------------
  T_(c) (K)                       9.2           8.8        5.8          5.8
  γ (mJ/mol at./K²)              3.12           3.07       2.12         1.60
  Θ_(D) (K)                       494           501        515          470
  Δc_(c) (mJ/mol at./K)          39.9            35        17.1         13.8
  Δc_(c)/(γ T_(c))               1.39           1.30       1.39         1.49

Table 2: Results of heat-capacity analysis of superconducting 512-type
materials.

Figure 4: Heat capacity of Mo₅P_(1.1)B_(1.9), after correction for the 7
wt

enhancement by a factor of 2.01(= 1 + λ) gives an electron-phonon
coupling constant λ of approximately 1, indicating intermediate
coupling. For a single-band s-wave scenario, Eliashberg theory [41]
gives a reduced specific-heat jump of approximately 2 for elemental Nb,
which has a similar λ. The observed value of Δc/γ T_(c) in Mo₅PB₂ is
1.49, close to the weak-coupling BCS value, but only 75

In general, such a reduced specific-heat jump can result from two
factors. The first of these is gap anisotropy, including nodal behavior
as observed in the superconducting cuprates [42] or more recently in
LaFePO, a structural relative of the high T_(c) iron-based
superconductors [43; 44]. For example, the BCS weak-coupling theory,
applied to a single band two-dimensional d-wave material [45], predicts
a reduced specific-heat jump Δc/γ T_(c) of 0.95. However, there is
little evidence for nodal superconductivity in Mo₅PB₂. For example, the
electronic specific heat in the superconducting state in Fig. 4(b) at
1.9 K, or approximately 20 percent of T_(c), is only 2

The second possibility for such a reduced specific-heat jump is
multiband superconductivity, as observed in MgB₂[12]. Strictly speaking
this can be considered a form of anisotropy, but here we follow the
historical context and treat it separately from the Fermi-surface gap
anisotropy described above. In MgB₂, well established to be an
intermediate coupling multiband s-wave superconductor [46], the largest
specific-heat jump Δc/γ T_(c) was observed [47] to be 1.32, less than
the BCS s-wave value. The band-structure calculations for Mo₅PB₂ support
the possibility of multiband superconductivity, since several bands
contribute significant DOS at the Fermi level.

Further evidence suggesting potential multiband behavior is seen in the
temperature dependence of the heat capacity measured below T_(c). In
Fig. 6 we depict the heat-capacity data of Mo₅PB₂, along with two
calculated curves: a single band BCS fit where the T = 0 gap value has
been taken as the canonical BCS weak-coupling value, 1.76k_(B) T_(c),
and a two band fit with two gaps. The smaller gap is weighted at
one-third the weight of the larger and the two gap fitting yields one
gap of 0.65 times the BCS value and the other gap 1.12 times the BCS
value. The relative weighting of the two band fit is in rough agreement
with the highest two Fermi-level DOS values from the band-structure
calculations.

Experimental data from Nb, which has a similar electron-phonon coupling
λ as well as similar T_(c), is included in Fig. 6 for comparison. The
data were taken from Ref. [48]. If Mo₅PB₂ is a single band
superconductor, as Nb is known to be, one would expect a similar
electronic specific-heat curve. Instead, one finds a specific-heat jump
Δc/γ T_(c) only slightly above the weak-coupling BCS value. In addition,
the low-temperature

Figure 5: Results of DFT calculations. (a) The calculated band structure
of Mo₅PB₂. The six bands crossing the Fermi level are indicated by
various symbols and labeled by numbers that enumerate the bands at each
k point with respect to energy. (b) The calculated density of states per
eV per unit cell of Mo₅PB₂, with an inset comparing the total density of
states of Mo₅PB₂ with Mo₅SiB₂. The energy zero is set to the Fermi
energies of the respective compounds.

Figure 6: The measured (grey diamonds) and calculated electronic
specific heat of Mo₅P_(1.1)B_(1.9) The dashed grey line indicates a
single-band BCS weak-coupling calculation and the solid blue line the
two band fit. Experimental data for Nb, a single gap superconductor with
similar T_(c), and λ are also shown for comparison (black triangles)
[48]. Inset: the low-temperature specific-heat data and fits on a
logarithmic scale.

specific heat is _enhanced_ relative to the BCS value, as indicated in
the inset. The low-T enhancement of the specific heat was found, in the
case of MgB₂[47], to result from having one gap much smaller than the
BCS value. Often the specific heat at low temperature is taken to vary
exponentially in −Δ/T, where Δ is the smallest energy gap in the system,
but the data (red diamonds) in the logarithmic plot in the inset of Fig.
6 show a substantial curvature demonstrating excitations across at least
two gaps. The two band fit significantly improves upon the BCS fit,
generating better agreement at both low temperatures and temperatures
near T_(c), though measurements on single crystals would be desirable to
support this. This is consistent with the electronic structure
calculations, finding multiple bands crossing E_(F).

It is of interest to compare the experimental and theoretical results
for Mo₅PB₂ to the isostructural compound Mo₅SiB₂, which is itself a
superconductor with a somewhat lower T_(c) of 5.8 K [9]. From a
comparison of our calculated γ of 1.22 mJ/mol atom K² for the Si
compound with the γ of 2.12 mJ/mol atom K² measured in Ref. [9], an
electron-phonon coupling constant λ_(Mo₅SiB₂) of 0.73 is determined,
significantly lower than the value of 1.0 we infer for the P compound.
Given that the Debye temperatures of these two materials are quite
similar, the lower value of λ for the Si compound immediately translates
to a lower T_(c).

Our calculations also provide insight into the source of this change in
λ. Presented in the inset of Fig. 5(b) are the calculated total
densities of states of the two compounds in a window of width
approximately 4 eV, centered on E_(F). It is apparent that the densities
of states can nearly be superimposed upon each other in a "rigid-band"
manner, with a shift of approximately 0.2 eV corresponding directly to
the two fewer valence electrons of the Si compound. Since the calculated
densities of states both generally increase with energy around the
respective Fermi energies, the effective hole doping associated with the
substitution of Si for P lowers the Fermi-level DOS. We note that this
DOS reduction from 10.7 to 8.30 per eV per unit cel, or 22

Our first-principles calculations and analysis of the experimental data
thus suggest that Mo₅PB₂ is an intermediate coupling, phonon-mediated,
and potentially multiband superconductor. We note that it is possible
that the superconductors Mo₅SiB₂ and additionally Nb₅SiB₂ are also
multiband materials as our calculations (depicted in the Appendix) find
each of these materials to have several bands crossing E_(F).

## IV Summary and Conclusions

We have discovered a new superconductor, Mo₅PB₂, with critical
temperature T_(c) as high as 9.2 K. It crystallizes in a tetragonal
Cr₈B₃ structure shared by a number of superconductors, such as Mo₅SiB₂,
Nb₅SiB₂, and W₅SiB₂, and has the highest transition temperature and
upper critical field reported for this family of compounds. Electron
doping may be expected to increase T_(c) further. Based on analysis of
the specific-heat data as well as our first-principles calculations,
Mo₅PB₂ appears to be an intermediate-coupling, multigap, phonon-mediated
superconductor.

###### Acknowledgements.

Research was sponsored by the U.S. Department of Energy, Office of
Science, Basic Energy Sciences, Materials Sciences and Engineering
Division (M.A.M. and D.S.P., synthesis of samples with varying
stoichiometry, experimental characterization, theory, and analysis). In
addition, M.A.M. acknowledges support for the initial synthesis of the
material from U.S. Department of Energy, Office of Energy Efficiency and
Renewable Energy, Vehicle Technologies Office, Propulsion Materials
Program. The authors thank B. C. Sales and J. Q. Yan for helpful
discussions throughout the course of this work.

## Appendix

### Electronic structure of Mo₅SiB₂ and Nb₅SiB₂

Figure 7 shows results from first-principles calculations for the
superconductors Mo₅SiB₂ and Nb₅SiB₂, isostructural

Figure 7: The calculated band structures for (a) Mo₅SiB₂ and (b)
Nb₅SiB₂. Note the multiple bands crossing E_(F) in each case.

to Mo₅PB₂. These calculations were also carried out using the LAPW
method, with an RK_(max) of 7.0 and all internal coordinates relaxed,
and approximately 1000 k points in the full Brillouin zone used for all
calculations; spin-orbit coupling was not included. As is apparent, both
these compounds have multiple bands cutting the Fermi level, with six
such bands for Mo₅SiB₂ and four for Nb₅SiB₂. This is indicative of a
potential multiband superconductivity in these materials, although
definitive resolution of this issue would require further investigation.

## References

* Crystal Structure Database for Inorganic Compounds, Release 2013/14_
(ASM International, Materials Park, OH, 2013/14). * [2] D. M. de
Almeida, C. Bormio-Nunes, C. A. Nunes, A. A. Coelho, and G. C. Coelho,
J. Magn. Magn. Mater. **321**, 2578 (2009). * [3] Z. G. Xie, D. Y. Geng,
and Z. D. Zhang, Appl. Phys. Lett. **97** (2010). * [4] A. M. Blanc, E.
Fruchart, and R. Fruchart, Ann. Chim. **2**, 251 (1967). * [5] R.
Wappling, T. Ericsson, L. Haggstrom, and Y. Andersson, J. Phys. Colloq.
**37**, C6-591 (1976). * [6] M. A. McGuire and D. S. Parker, J. Appl.
Phys. **118**, 163903 (2015). * [7] T. N. Lamichhane, V. Taufour, S.
Thimmaiah, D. S. Parker, S. L. Budko, and P. C. Canfield, J. Magn. Magn.
Mater. **401**, 525 (2016). * [8] P. Pesliev, G. Gyurov, and R.
Soyanchev, Izv. Khim. **19**, 267 (1986). * [9] A. J. S. Machado, A. M.
S. Costa, C. A. Nunes, C. A. M. Dos Santos, T. Grant, and Z. Fisk, Solid
State Commun. **151**, 1455 (2011). * [10] M. Fukuma, K. Kawashima, M.
Maruyama, and J. Akimitsu, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **80**, 024702 (2011). *
[11] H. Tagaki, M. Nohara, and R. J. Cava, Physica B **237-238**, 292
(1997). * [12] J. Nagamatsu, N. Nakagawa, T. Muranaka, Y. Zenitani, and
J. Akimitsu, Nature (London) **410**, 63 (2001). * [13] S. Lebegue, Z.
P. Yin, and W. E. Pickett, New. J. Phys. **11**, 025004 (2009). * [14]
I. I. Mazin and V. P. Antropov, Physica C **385**, 49 (2003). * [15] K.
Ihara, K. Ito, K. Tanaka, and M. Yamaguchi, Mater. Sci. Eng. A
**329-331**, 222 (2002). * [16] P. C. Canfield and Z. Fisk, Philos. Mag.
B **65**, 1117 (1992). * [17] M. G. Kanatzidis, R. Potten, and W.
Jietschko, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. **44**, 6996 (2005). * [18] J.
Rodriguez-Carvajal, FullProf.2k, version 5.30, March 2012. * [19] S.
Riegel and G. Weber, J. Phys. E **19**, 790 (1986). * [20] P. Blaha, K.
Schwarz, G. Madsen, D. Kvasnicka, and J. Luitz, WIEN2k, An Augmented
Plane Wave + Local Orbitals Program for Calculating Crystal Properties,
edited by K. Schwarz (Technische Universitat Wien, Austria, 2001). *
[21] J. P. Perdew, K. Burke, and M. Ernzerhof, Phys. Rev. Lett. **77**,
3865 (1996). * [22] A. Brauner, C. A. Nunes, A. D. Bortolozo, G.
Rodrigues, and A. J. S. Machado, Solid State Commun. **149**, 467
(2009). * [23] L. Haggstrom, R. Wappling, T. Ericsson, Y. Andersson, and
S. Rundqvist, J. Solid State Chem. **13**, 84 (1975). * [24] C. J. Rawn,
J. H. Schneider, C. M. Hoffmann, and C. R. Hubbard, Intermetallics
**9**, 209 (2001). * [25] M. Fukuma, K. Kawashima, and J. Akimitsu, J.
Phys.: Conf. Ser. **391**, 012090 (2012). * [26] K. Ito, T. Hayashi, and
H. Nakamura, Intermetallics **12**, 443 (2004). * [27] Z. Fisk and G. W.
Webb, Phys. Rev. Lett. **36**, 1084 (1976). * [28] S. Riegel and G.
Weber, Prog. Semicond. **4**, 237 (1960). * [29] N. F. Mott,
_Metal-Insulator Transitions_ (Taylor and Francis, London, 1974). * [30]
M. Gurvitch, Phys. Rev. B **24**, 7404 (1981). * [31] S. L. Bud’ko, C.
Petrovic, G. Lapertot, C. E. Cunningham, P. C. Canfield, M.-H. Jung, and
A. H. Lacerda, Phys. Rev. B **63**, 220503(R) (2001).

Figure 8: (a) The measured specific-heat capacity for Mo₅P. (b)
Comparison of the total measured heat capacity of the Mo₅P_(1.1)B_(1.9)
sample and the calculated contribution from the Mo₃P impurity.

* [32] F. Hunte, J. Jaroszynski, A. Gurevich, D. C. Larbalestier, R.
Jin, A. S. Sefat, M. A. McGuire, B. C. Sales, D. K. Christen, and D.
Mandrus, Nature (London) **453**, 903 (2008). * [33] S. V. Shulga, S.-L.
Drechsler, G. Fuchs, K.-H. Muller, K. Winzer, M. Heinecke, and K. Krug,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **80**, 1730 (1998). * [34] H. Suderow, V. G. Tissen,
J. P. Brison, J. L. Martinez, and S. Vieira, Phys. Rev. Lett. **95**,
117006 (2005). * [35] V. G. Tissen, M. R. Osorio, J. P. Brison, N. M.
Nemes, M. Garcia-Hernandez, L. Cario, P. Rodiere, S. Vieira, and H.
Suderow, Phys. Rev. B **87**, 134502 (2013). * [36] H. Wang, C. Dong, Q.
Mao, R. Khan, X. Zhou, C. Li, B. Chen, J. Yang, Q. Su, and M. Fang,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **111**, 207001 (2013). * [37] B. T. Matthias, E.
Corenzwit, and C. E. Miller, Phys. Rev. **93**, 1415 (1954). * [38] R.
D. Blaugher, J. K. Hulm, and P. N. Yocom, J. Phys. Chem. Solids **26**,
2037 (1965). * [39] I. Shirotani, M. Takaya, I. Kaneko, C. Sekine, and
T. Yagi, Physica C **357-360**, 329 (2001). * [40] J. F. Janak, Phys.
Rev. B **16**, 255 (1977). * [41] J. P. Carbotte, Rev. Mod. Phys.
**62**, 1027 (1990). * [42] D. J. Van Harlingen, Rev. Mod. Phys. **67**,
515 (1995). * [43] J. D. Fletcher, A. Serafin, L. Malone, J. G.
Analytis, J.-H. Chu, A. S. Erickson, I. R. Fisher, and A. Carrington,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **102**, 147001 (2009). * [44] C. W. Hicks, T. M.
Lippman, M. E. Huber, J. G. Analytis, J.-H. Chu, A. S. Erickson, I. R.
Fisher, and K. A. Moler, Phys. Rev. Lett. **103**, 127003 (2009). * [45]
H. Won and K. Maki, Phys. Rev. B **49**, 1397 (1994). * [46] A. Y. Liu,
I. I. Mazin, and J. Kortus, Phys. Rev. Lett. **87**, 087005 (2001). *
[47] F. Bouquet, R. A. Fisher, N. E. Phillips, D. G. Hinks, and J. D.
Jorgensen, Phys. Rev. Lett. **87**, 047001 (2001). * [48] J. Daams and
J. P. Carbotte, J. Low Temp. Phys. **40**, 135 (1980).
