Evidence of double-gap superconductivity in noncentrosymmetric
Nb_(0.18)Re_(0.82) single crystals

C. Cirillo

R. Fittipaldi

M. Smidman

G. Carapella

C. Attanasio

A. Vecchione

R. P. Singh

G. Balakrishnan

M. Cuoco

CNR-SPIN and Dipartimento di Fisica "E. R. Caianiello", Universita di
Salerno, I-84084 Fisciano (Salerno), Italy

###### Abstract

We combine point contact spectroscopy with specific heat measurements to
probe the superconducting state in noncentrosymmetric Nb_(0.18)Re_(0.82)
single crystals. The conductance spectra clearly exhibit a two-peak
structure that is well reproduced within a two-band model with isotropic
gaps in the spectrum. Such an observation is confirmed by distinct
features of the specific heat both at low temperatures and in the range
approaching the transition to the normal state. The analyses provide
convincing evidence that the two-gap superconducting pairing is a robust
feature of Nb_(0.18)Re_(0.82).

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.91.134508 PACS number(s): 74.70.Ad, 74.45.+c,
74.25.Bt, 74.20.Rp + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL REVIEW B **91**,
134508 (2015)

## I Introduction

Time reversal and inversion are two fundamental symmetries that set the
character of the superconducting pairing. If both are present the
superconducting order parameter can be grouped into even and odd parity
corresponding to spin-singlet and spin-triplet configurations,
respectively [1]. The absence of time reversal symmetry generally leads
to a suppression of the spin-singlet pairing which can be easily
achieved by applying an external magnetic field. A different scenario
occurs for inversion symmetry breaking as due to large screening of the
electric field in a metal, it is difficult to induce with external
sources. It is the lack of a center of inversion in the crystal
structure that allows parity to be violated and the effects of this on
the properties of the superconducting phase can be studied. The
discovery of superconductivity in the heavy-fermion compound CePt₃Si [2]
has motivated intense experimental and theoretical studies [3] since its
crystal symmetry lacks a center of inversion. The parity violation leads
to a classification scheme of the pairing symmetry different from the
standard one, indeed the admixture of spin-singlet and spin-triplet
pairing states is expected to occur [4, 5, 6, 7].

As a consequence of inversion symmetry breaking, exotic properties have
been predicted and observed, such as multigap and nodal
superconductivity [8, 9, 10, 11], large upper critical fields [12, 13,
14], nontrivial quantum topology in the superconducting ground state
[15], as well as charge and spin currents along the edge [16]. The
understanding of the nature of the pairing and the mechanisms that lead
to superconductivity in materials without inversion symmetry is thus a
fundamental and highly debated issue in the field of unconventional
superconductors.

In the past few years a growing number of noncentrosymmetric
superconductors (NCS) have been studied, varying from heavy-fermion
compounds to a number of weakly correlated intermetallic materials [3].
In heavy-fermions NCS it is suggested that nonphonon mechanisms provide
the pairing glue because superconductivity occurs in the vicinity of
magnetic phases. If pairing is mediated by spin fluctuations, it is
plausible that they lead to interactions that favor the parity mixing of
Cooper pairs involving different angular momentum channels. Even when
the antisymmetric spin-orbit coupling is smaller than the relevant
electronic scale of energies close to the Fermi level, it is possible
that under specific conditions the parity mixing becomes relevant for
the formation of the pairing states. For instance, when the attractive
pairing interactions in the spin-singlet and spin-triplet channels are
comparable in magnitude, the antisymmetric spin-orbit can lead to strong
mixing of these two states. Due to the presence of many competing
interactions, the resulting physical scenario is highly nontrivial and
it is difficult to predict which channel might dominate in determining
the superconducting state of noncentrosymmetric materials. Another
complication that emerges when attempting to single out the role of
inversion symmetry breaking in the superconducting phase is that many
NCS materials exhibit a complex electronic structure, with many orbitals
close to the Fermi level.

In weakly correlated transition metal compounds which do not exhibit
magnetic complexity as in the heavy-fermion case, e.g., Ru₁B₃, AMS₁₃ (A
= Ca, Sr, La, and Ba and M = Co, Rh, Ir, Ni, Pd, and Pt), Mg₁₀Ir₁₉B₁₆,
Mo₃Al₂C, and Re₃W [17, 18, 19, 20, 21], conventional s-wave behavior has
been often reported. An exception is in the case of Re₆Zr, for which
muon spin relaxation measurements reveal the presence of a spontaneous
magnetic field below the critical temperature T_(c) providing evidence
for a superconducting state with time reversal symmetry breaking [22].
In the case of Nb₁Re_(1 − x), measurements on polycrystalline samples
with x = 0.18 confirm that it is a type-II superconductor with a bulk
transition temperature T_(c)∼ 8.8 K [23, 24]. The exponential activation
in the low-temperature behavior of the thermodynamic responses has been
interpreted in terms of a single isotropic gap. Similar behavior led to
the same conclusions for the case of Nb_(x)Re_(1 − x) with x in the
range [0.13-0.38] [25]. Anomalies were pointed out in connection with
the high value of the specific heat jump indicating that the compound is
in the moderate-coupling regime. However, since the upper critical field
is quite close to the estimated Pauli limiting field, further
investigations on high-quality single crystals are required to clarify
whether a possible mixture of singlet and triplet pairing states or
other scenarios occur in the NCS Nb_(x)Re_(1 − x)[23, 25].

In this paper, benefiting from the successful achievement in the
synthesis of high quality single crystals of noncentrosymmetric
Nb_(0.18)Re_(0.82)[26], we obtain more insight into the nature of the
superconducting state by combining point contact spectroscopy and
specific-heat measurements. We find that the conductance spectra clearly
exhibit a two-peak structure at finite applied bias, whose temperature
dependence can be well described by a minimal two-band model with
spin-singlet isotropic gaps. The two-gap features have been observed in
different sets of measurements providing convincing evidence that the
multicomponent character of the superconducting state of
noncentrosymmetric Nb_(0.18)Re_(0.82) is a robust feature. To exclude
the possibility of a surface reconstruction of the superconducting
state, a careful analysis of the temperature dependence of the specific
heat demonstrates that a model with a single isotropic gap is unable to
reproduce both the low- and high-temperature behavior (close to T_(c)),
whereas this can be accounted for within a two-gap model.

The paper is organized as follows. In Sec. II we present the
experimental methodology. Section III is devoted to the results of the
point contact spectroscopy and the specific heat measurements as well as
the related discussions. Finally, in Sec. IV we provide the concluding
remarks.

## II Experimental details

Single crystals of Nb_(r)Re_(1 − x) with x = 0.18 have been synthesized
by the floating zone technique using a four mirror optical furnace with
Xe arc lamps as described in detail in Ref. [26]. Crystals of large
volume and high quality have been obtained whose morphology and
composition were checked by a scanning electron microscope (SEM)
equipped with an energy dispersive spectrometer (EDS). Moreover, the
Laue back reflection technique was employed to specifically orient the
single crystals with one of the principal symmetry axes (referred to as
the c axis) perpendicular to their surface for the design of the point
contact experimental configuration. Sharp and clear spots were obtained,
which agree with the $I\bar{4}3m$ (no. 217) symmetry of the crystal
[26]. A representative Laue pattern of an oriented Nb_(0.18)Re_(0.82)
crystal is shown in Fig. 1.

The samples used for the measurement were about 3 × 2 × 1 mm³ and were
polished along the ab symmetry plane. Before performing the electrical
characterization, the crystals were etched in a mixture of HF, HNO₃, and
H₃PO₄ in order to remove any deteriorated surface layers. Transport
properties were investigated using a standard dc four-probe technique in
zero magnetic field down to T = 300 mK, in a sorption pumped ³He
HelioxVL insert from Oxford Instruments. A set of preliminary
characterizations was performed to determine both the value of T_(c) and
the residual resistivity ratio (RRR), defined as RRR ≡ ρ(T = 300
K)/ρ(T = 10 K). The resulting values were T_(c) ∼ 8.5 K and RRR = 1.14.
Then, point contact spectroscopy was performed for the analyzed samples
by means of the widely used _soft contact_ technique [27, 28, 29, 30]
that consists of having a small drop of Ag conductive paint as a
counterelectrode on the freshly etched surface of the crystal below a
25-μm-diameter gold wire [see Fig. 2(a)]. In this configuration the
conducting regime can be tuned by applying short voltage pulses to the
junction [27, 31], which is different from conventional point contact,
where similar control is achieved by varying the pressure between the
tip and the sample. The values of the contact resistance for all the
spectra reported in this work were always lower than R_(c) = 10 Ω. The
diameter of the effective contact area a can be roughly estimated
according to the Sharvin formula R_(c) = 4ρ₀/3π a², with the low
temperature resistivity of the crystal being ρ₀ = 120 μΩ cm [26].
Concerning the mean free path, in Ref. [25] a value of l ≈ 5 nm was
estimated, which would result in a ≈ 6-40 nm. These estimates are
consistent with the average dimensions of the Ag grains on the surface
of the superconductor, as one can observe from Fig. 2(b) [29], and with
the values of the samples roughness, which is of the order of 50 nm.
Therefore, it is reasonable to conclude that the point contact junctions
are close to the ballistic regime. It is worth pointing out that in the
soft contact configuration, R_(c) is the resistance of the parallel
arrangement of grains, which individually are more resistive. This
conclusion is further

Figure 1: X-ray Laue pattern of a Nb_(0.18)Re_(0.82) crystal oriented
with one of the principal axes perpendicular to the exposed surface.

Figure 2: Field emission scanning electron microscope image of (a) the
Nb_(0.18)Re_(0.82) single crystal (ab plane) with Au wire and silver
paste drop and (b) the Ag particles on the measured Nb_(0.18)Re_(0.82)
surface after removing the gold wire.

supported by the absence of any downward curvature or sharp dips in the
spectra, which could be a signature of heating or in general, of
nonideal conduction through the contact [27].

_1-V_ curves were recorded by biasing the junction with a pulsed current
(current-on time was 12 ms, current-off time was 1 s) along the c axis.
The conductance curves dI/dV vs V were obtained by numerical
differentiation of the measured _I-V_ characteristics. Hence, a
systematic study of the temperature dependence of the conductance
spectra (dI/dV vs _V_) was performed.

In addition, specific-heat measurements were made using the two-t
relaxation method with a Quantum Design Physical Property Measurement
System. A 3He insert was used for zero field measurements down to 400
mK.

## III Results

In this section we present an analysis of the superconducting state
obtained by means of point contact spectroscopy and specific heat
measurements.

### Point contact spectroscopy

In Fig. 3 we report representative normalized conductance spectra
obtained by means of point contact spectroscopy on an oriented single
crystal (sample 1). As one can note the low-temperature data show a
dominant peak structure at V_(B) ∼ ±1.1 meV and a satellite shoulder at
higher energies with a maximum at about V_(A) ∼ ±2.0 meV. There is no
evidence of midgap bound states and the spectral weight in the gap is
not significantly suppressed, thus revealing that a good contact is
achieved between the Ag grains and the Nb0.18**Re**0.82 surface. The
conductance profile exhibits a rapid drop above the peak at the voltage
bias corresponding to the small gap, which gets progressively smoother
and broader in energy as the temperature is raised. Moving up in
temperature the intensity of the main peak is reduced and the weight
between the large and the small gap channels becomes comparable. There
is a broadening of the two main peaks with temperature which results in
the larger gap having a flat structure with a maximum at about 2.0 meV.
The result is that above 6.0 K the high energy shoulder becomes almost
featureless. To verify the robustness of the observed features we have
repeated the measurements on different regions of the crystal surface as
well as on different samples, as shown in Figs. 3(c) and 4. All the
measured spectra display a double peak structure as a function of the
applied voltage biases with different spectral weight ratios between the
two peaks. Furthermore, an inspection of other regions of the sample
surface sometimes showed a slight reduction of the energy peak positions
which can be attributed to a weak proximity effect in the area of the
superconductor that is close to the silver drop. Finally, an analysis of
the temperature dependence down to 300 mK confirms the persistence of
the double-peak structures observed above 4 K [see Fig. 3(c)].

In order to quantitatively investigate the measured spectra, we adopt
the widely used approach based on the Blonder-Thinkham-Klapwijk (BTK)
scattering formalism [32] extended to a two-band spectrum. We include
the possibility of a quasiparticle lifetime through phenomenological
parameters that lead to independent broadening effects in the two bands.
We consider a minimal model that is able to capture the features of the
conductance spectra. Such a proposal includes isotropic spin-singlet
order parameters for each band channel. We assume that the two bands
contribute through parallel channels to the charge conductance with a
probability p that

Figure 4: (Color online) Conductance spectra measured at T = 4.2 K for
different positions on sample 1 (i.e., A and B) and sample 2 of the
Nb0.18**Re**0.82 surface. For clarity, the data are plotted with a
constant offset along the linear vertical scale. The symbols are the
experimental data and the arrows schematically indicate the positions of
the two peaks in the spectrum at voltage biases V_(A) and V_(B).

Figure 3: (Color online) (a) Temperature dependence of the conductance
spectra measured from 4.2 to 8.0 K. For clarity, the data are plotted
with a constant offset along the linear vertical scale. The symbols are
the experimental data and the solid lines are the fits to the data using
the isotropic two-gap model as discussed in the main text. The arrows
schematically indicate the positions of the dominant peaks in the
spectrum at voltage biases V_(A) and V_(B). (b) Temperature dependence
of the gaps D_(A) and D_(B) as extracted from the fits to the
conductance spectra. (c) Conductance spectrum measured at T = 300 mK at
another position of the Nb0.18**Re**0.82 surface with respect to that in
(a). This spectrum also exhibits the double gap structures at voltage
biases V_(A) and V_(B).

is also employed in the fit to tune the weight of each band in the
transport. This model has been also applied to successfully describe the
conductance spectra of the noncentrosymmetric superconductor BiPd [33].

Hence, the normalized conductance G(V)/G_(N) can be obtained as a
weighted sum of the conductance of two transport channels,

$$\frac{G(V)}{G_{N}}=p\frac{G_{A}(V)}{G_{NA}}+(1-p)\frac{G_{B}(V)}{G_{NB}}\,,$$
(1)

G_(N) and G_(NA(B)) being the total and the A(B) conductance in the
normal state, respectively. Then, G_(A)(V) and G_(B)(V) are determined
by means of the BTK formalism assuming independent amplitudes for the
two isotropic spin-singlet gaps Δ_(A) and Δ_(B), barrier heights Z_(A)
and Z_(B), and broadening parameters Γ_(A) and Γ_(B) for each channel,
respectively. The results are presented in Fig. 3(a) as solid lines and
demonstrate a good agreement between the fit and experimental data
across the full temperature range. We find that the dominant feature is
associated with a smaller gap Δ_(B) = 1.0 meV and we can resolve a
larger gap Δ_(A) = 1.99 meV at 4.2 K, with a weight p = 0.12 for the
respective charge conductance channels that has been assumed constant in
temperature. The optimal values of the barrier heights are about
Z_(A) = 8.0 (Z_(B) = 0.5), thus indicating a regime of low (high)
transparency for the large (small) gap channel. The broadening
parameters are mainly employed to improve the agreement between the
model and the data. The estimated amplitude from the fit turns out to be
dependent on the band index and optimal curves can be obtained by
assuming a temperature independent Γ with Γ_(A) = 0.001 meV and
Γ_(B) = 0. A scenario emerges where the larger gap is more damped, has a
lower probability of carrying electric current, and has a larger
effective barrier than the smaller gap. It is worth pointing out that
the fitted parameters for a given temperature may be correlated and
therefore not unique, especially if one assumes a temperature dependence
of the weight p. A similar assumption, for instance, has been used in
Ref. [33] for describing the charge conductance of the
noncentrosymmetric superconductor BiPd. Here, since a physical
justification of such a temperature dependence is not directly linkable
to the adopted model, we have performed the fit in a way to optimally
reproduce the whole set of data across the full range of temperatures by
keeping the amplitude of p unchanged. In Fig. 3(b) we have plotted the
temperature dependence of the two gaps as given by the fit to the
conductance spectra. One can note that the larger gap has a rapid
variation around 5 K which is the temperature above which the second
peak gets more suppressed making it difficult to fit the small satellite
shoulder at large voltages with high accuracy. The presence of the large
gap in the fitting parameters is however necessary for a fairly good
match to the charge conductance upon reaching the critical temperature
without changing the weight p. On the other hand, the evolution of the
small gap is smooth in the full temperature range. Above about 6.5 K the
two gaps are almost degenerate in energy. In such a window of
temperatures, due to the almost complete suppression of the large
voltage peak, there is more uncertainty in the exact determination of
the difference between the two gaps.

The double gap features can also be well reproduced within the two-band
model for other sets of measurements taken on different positions of the
crystal surface. Indeed, the conductance measured at T = 300 mK, as
reported in Fig. 3(c), can be fairly well described with the two-band
model with similar parameters of those used for the fit in Fig. 3(a).
The qualitative scenario of two channels with high and low transparency
is obtained, i.e., Z_(A) = 8.0 and Z_(B) = 0.5, with a smaller spectral
weight p = 0.12 associated with the larger gap and the optimal fit
yields gap amplitudes of Δ_(A) = 1.55 meV and Δ_(B) = 1.15 meV.

Two-peak structures in the conductance with a full gap two-band model do
not necessarily imply conventional multiband superconductivity. There
are possible alternative scenarios that can qualitatively reproduce the
observed conductance spectra. For instance, singlet-triplet mixed-parity
superconductors in the presence of Rashba spin-orbit coupling with
triplet amplitude Δ_(t) smaller than the singlet one Δ_(s) would also
produce profiles in the charge conductance with a two-peak structure at
energy positions of Δ_(t) − Δ_(t) and Δ_(s) + Δ_(t) as discussed more
thoroughly in Refs. [34, 35, 36]. One of the main drawbacks when trying
to apply these models is that a poorer correspondence with the data is
found when fitting the relative amplitude of the normalized conductance
between the large and the small gap structure. While such a deviation
may be cured by a refinement of the model with suitable tuning of the
transparency associated with the two spin pairing channels or by adding
other microscopic ingredients, the increase of parameters in the fit
would make the results less solid and more sensitive to uncontrollable
physical variables. In the analyzed case, due to the absence of Andreev
midgap states, we note that specific measurements that are able to
filter the spin character of the pairing would be required to
distinguish between multiband conventional superconductivity and
singlet-triplet mixed configurations.

### Specific heat measurements

In this section we present measurements of the specific heat and its
analysis in terms of single- and two-gap models. The specific heat of a
single crystal of Nb_(0.18)Re_(0.82), from the same crystal boule as
used for the point contact analysis, was measured down to 400 mK in zero
field and an applied field of 9 T. The electronic contribution to the
specific heat ($C_{\rm el}/T$) is shown in Fig. 5. This was estimated
from fitting the data in the normal state in an applied field of 9 T
with C/T = γ + βT² + δT⁴. The outcome is displayed in the inset and
γ = 6.1 mJ/mol K², β = 0.039 mJ/mol K⁴, and δ = 2.6 × 10⁻⁴ mJ/mol K⁶ are
obtained. Hence, the solid line in Fig. 5 shows a fit to the
$C_{\rm el}/T$ with a two-band model. The fit consists of a weighted
superposition of the specific heat for the single-band case. For a
single-band model the superconducting contribution to the entropy is
calculated using the following relation:

$$\frac{S}{\gamma T_{c}}=-\frac{6}{\pi^{2}}\frac{\Delta_{0}}{k_{\rm B}T_{c}}\int _{0}^{\infty}[f\ln f+(1-f)\ln(1-f)]dy,$$
(2)

where f(E) is the Fermi-Dirac function with
$E=\Delta_{0}\sqrt{\gamma^{2}+\Delta(T)^{2}}$, y is the energy of the
normal state electrons and Δ(T) is the temperature dependence of the
superconducting gap. Both of these quantities have been normalized by
$\Delta_{0}=\alpha\,k_{\rm B}T_{c}$, where the amplitude of α is allowed
to vary from the BCS value of about 1.764. Hence, one can show that the
specific heat of the superconducting state can be calculated from the
derivative of the entropy with respect to the reduced temperature
t = T/T_(c) using

$$\frac{C_{\rm sc}}{\gamma\,T}=\frac{d(S/\gamma\,T_{c})}{dt}\,.$$
(3)

Taking into account the expression of the specific heat for the
single-band model, an extension to the two-band case can be made by
assuming that there are two contributions with different weights

$$\frac{C_{\rm el}}{T}=w\frac{C_{\rm sc}}{T}[\alpha_{A}]+(1-w)\frac{C_{\rm sc}}{ T}[\alpha_{B}]+c,$$
(4)

where $\alpha_{A,B}=\Delta_{A,B}/k_{\rm B}T_{c}$, w is the fraction
associated with the gap A, and c is a constant. $C_{\rm el}/T$ was
fitted by optimizing the parameters in the specific heat and with γ also
being allowed to vary in the superconducting state. The results (see
Fig. 5) yield magnitudes of α_(A) = 2.47 and α_(B) = 1.80, corresponding
to Δ_(A) = 1.86 meV and Δ_(B) = 1.36 meV at zero temperature, with
w = 0.32, indicating that the data are in good agreement with a two-band
model.

We point out that the value of γ in the superconducting state is not
very correlated with the other parameters and the same value is obtained
whether a one- or two-gap fit is made. Thus, this result implies that
the slight difference can be an intrinsic aspect of the compound.
Furthermore, the conclusions related to the two-gap model are only
quantitatively and not qualitatively affected if one does not use γ as a
fitting parameter in the superconducting state.

We point out that the fit with a single-band model (not shown here)
yields a poorer agreement with the data than the two-band case. However,
since it is generally difficult to distinguish between the case of
isotropic one- and two-gap models, especially when considering the low
temperature range, we have further investigated the full temperature
dependence and its derivative in order to extract qualitative elements
to discern between them. Indeed, further evidence for the existence of
two energy scales in the specific heat can be found from examining the
derivative of $C_{\rm sc}/T$. This is calculated for several values of α
as a function of reduced temperature and is shown in the top panel of
Fig. 6. As expected, due to the isotropic structure of the gap, at low
temperatures the derivative is flat and its amplitude is close to zero
before turning up at higher t and upon increasing α, the temperature at
which this upturn occurs also progressively grows. Also, it can be seen
that for values of α less than about 2.05, the curves reach a maximum
and then decrease towards t = 1, while for larger α the curves increase
towards the transition. This is a relevant qualitative feature which can
be useful to exploit when trying to single out the presence of multiple
components in the contribution to the specific heat.

The derivative of the measured $C_{\rm el}/T$ for Nb_(0.18)Re_(0.82) is
shown in the bottom panel of Fig. 6. As one can note, the data continues
to increase up to t = 1 and no maximum is observed at intermediate t,
suggesting a gap with α ≥ 2.05. However at low t, the data turns up at
too low a temperature for a gap of this magnitude, as shown by the
dotted lines. Therefore, such a deviation is evidence for the presence
of a smaller energy gap. Fitting the data to an isotropic single band
model gives α = 1.98. However, as shown by the dashed lines, there is

Figure 5: (Color online) Temperature dependence of the electronic
contribution to the specific heat of a single crystal of
Nb_(0.18)Re_(0.82) in zero field. The solid line shows a fit to a
two-band model, described in the text. The inset shows C/T against T²,
in an applied field of 9 T. The dashed line shows a fit to the data
above the transition as described in the text.

Figure 6: (Color online) The top panel shows the derivative of the
superconducting contribution of the specific heat [Eq. (3)] with respect
to the reduced temperature t = T/T_(c), for several different values of
$\alpha=\Delta/k_{\rm B}T_{c}$. The bottom panel shows the derivative of
the electronic contribution to the specific heat from Fig. 5. The solid
line denotes the derivative of the two-band fit in Fig. 5, while the
dashed and dotted lines show the derivative of the single band fit with
α = 1.98 and 2.05, respectively.

poor agreement with the data since this predicts a maximum at
intermediate t. For completeness we have also reported the derivative of
the one-band fit with α = 2.05 (dotted line), which clearly indicates
how by attempting to reproduce the high-temperature range of data one
loses the agreement in the intermediate region of t. On the other hand,
as demonstrated by the solid line in Fig. 6, the derivative of the
two-gap fit is in good agreement with the data across the full
temperature range. It should be noted that in the fit using Eq. (3),
there were significant correlations between the parameters w, σ_(A), and
σ_(B). Therefore, although our results demonstrate that the data are
quite compatible with a two-gap model, the values of w, σ_(A), and α_(B)
may have a small spread and are not unique.

Therefore, we point out that there is a good match between the gap
amplitudes extracted from the specific heat measurements and those
obtained by point contact spectroscopy. The results show a good
agreement for the estimate of both gaps, with a better match for the
larger gap value. The discrepancy for the smaller gap amplitude may be
attributed to the fact that the point contact probe is more sensitive to
the surface and the conductance spectra can be influenced by possible
reconstruction or other electronic spectrum modification at the boundary
of the superconductor.

## IV Conclusions

In conclusion, we have analyzed the superconducting state of
high-quality single crystals of noncentrosymmetric Nb_(0.18)Re_(0.82) by
combining point contact spectroscopy and specific heat measurements. The
point contact conductance spectra clearly show a two-peak structure that
can be fairly well reproduced within a minimal two-band model. The
specific heat measurements provide further evidence for a double-gap
structure of the superconducting state. Evidence for two energy scales
emerges in the analysis of the temperature dependence of its derivative,
where the single-band model clearly fails to reproduce the experimental
data. The values of the gaps from the point contact and specific heat
measurements are in good agreement, thus providing solid support for a
double-gap superconducting state in high-quality single crystals. Though
the two-gap isotropic model is sufficient to explain the obtained
results, the employed probes are not able to completely single out the
spin symmetry of the pairing by excluding the possibility of different
scenarios based on mixed spin singlet-triplet pairing. We suggest that
further measurements, such as magnetic resonance probes or charge
transport analysis in heterostructures having magnetically active
elements, which are more sensitive to the spin symmetry of the
superconducting pairing, are needed to get deeper insight into the
origin of the two gaps.

###### Acknowledgements.

The work at the University of Warwick was funded by the EPSRC, UK
(EP/I007210/1), and by the University of Warwick, through a Research and
Development Fund. Some of the equipment used in this research at the
University of Warwick was obtained through the Science City Advanced
Materials: Creating and Characterising Next Generation Advanced
Materials Project, with support from Advantage West Midlands (AWM) and
part funded by the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF). This
research has received Funding from FP7-REGPOT under Grant No. 264098 -
MAMA.

## References

* [1] M. Sigrist and K. Ueda, Rev. Mod. Phys. **63**, 239 (1991). * [2]
E. Bauer, G. Hilscher, H. Michor, Ch. Paul, E. W. Scheidt, A. Gribanov,
Yu. Seropegin, H. Noel, M. Sigrist, and P. Rogl, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**92**, 027003 (2004). * [3] E. Bauer and M. Sigrist,
_Non-centrosymmetric Superconductors: Introduction and Overview_
(Springer, Berlin, 2012), and references therein. * [4] V. M. Edelstein,
Zh. Eksp. Teor. Fiz. **95**, 2151 (1989). * [5] L. P. Gor’kov and E. I.
Rashba, Phys. Rev. Lett. **87**, 037004 (2001). * [6] P. A. Frigeri, D.
F. Agterberg, A. Koga, and M. Sigrist, Phys. Rev. Lett. **92**, 097001
(2004). * [7] I. A. Sergienko and S. H. Curnoe, Phys. Rev. B **70**,
214510 (2004). * [8] A. Harada, S. Akutagawa, Y. Miyamichi, H. Mukuda,
Y. Kitaoka, and J. Akimitsu, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **76**, 023704 (2007). *
[9] S. Kuroiwa, Y. Saura, J. Akimitsu, M. Hiraishi, M. Miyazaki, K. H.
Satoh, S. Takeshita, and R. Kadono, Phys. Rev. Lett. **100**, 097002
(2008). * [10] T. Klimczuk, F. Ronning, V. Sidorov, R. J. Cava, and J.
D. Thompson, Phys. Rev. Lett. **99**, 257004 (2007). * [11] J. Chen, L.
Jiao, J. L. Zhang, Y. Chen, L. Yang, M. Nicklas, F. Steglich, and H. Q.
Yuan, New J. Phys. **15**, 053005 (2013). * [12] J. Chen, M. B. Salamon,
S. Akutagawa, J. Akimitsu, J. Singleton, J. L. Zhang, L. Jiao, and H. Q.
Yuan, Phys. Rev. B **83**, 144529 (2011). * [13] N. Kimura, K. Ito, H.
Aoki, S. Uji, and T. Terashima, Phys. Rev. Lett. **98**, 197001
(2007). * [14] R. Settai, Y. Miyauchi, T. Takeuchi, F. L vy, T. Sheikin,
and Y. Onuki, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **77**, 073705 (2008). * [15] M. Sato
and S. Fujimoto, Phys. Rev. B **79**, 094504 (2009). * [16] Y. Tanaka,
T. Yokoyama, A. V. Balatsky, and N. Nagaosa, Phys. Rev. B **79**,
060505(R) (2009). * [17] L. Fang, H. Yang, X. Zhu, G. Mu, Z.-S. Wang, L.
Shan, C. Ren, and H.-H. Wen, Phys. Rev. B **79**, 144509 (2009). * [18]
N. Kimura, K. Ito, K. Saitoh, Y. Umeda, H. Aoki, and T. Terashima, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **95**, 247004 (2005). * [19] N. Tateiwa, Y. Haga, T. D.
Matsuda, S. Ikeda, E. Yamamoto, Y. Okuda, Y. Miyauchi, R. Settai, and Y.
Onuki, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **76**, 083706 (2007). * [20] N. Kimura, Y.
Umeda, T. Asai, T. Terashima, and H. Aoki, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **76**,
044708 (2007). * [21] P. K. Biswas, A. D. Hillier, M. R. Lees, and D.
McK. Paul, Phys. Rev. B **85**, 134505 (2012). * [22] R. P. Singh, A. D.
Hillier, B. Mazidian, J. Quintanilla, J. F. Annett, D. McK. Paul, G.
Balakrishnan, and M. R. Lees, Phys. Rev. Lett. **112**, 107002 (2014). *
[23] A. B. Karki, Y. M. Xiong, N. Haldolaarachchige, S. Stadler, I.
Vekhter, P. W. Adams, D. P. Young, W. A. Phelan, and J. Y. Chan, Phys.
Rev. B **83**, 144525 (2011). * [24] C. S. Lue, T. H. Su, H. F. Liu, and
B.-L. Young, Phys. Rev. B **84**, 052509 (2011).

* [25] J. Chen, L. Jiao, J. L. Zhang, Y. Chen, L. Yang, M. Nicklas, F.
Steglich, and H. Q. Yuan, Phys. Rev. B **88**, 144510 (2013). * [26] R.
P. Singh, M. Smidman, M. R. Lees, D. McK. Paul, and G. Balakrishnan, J.
Cryst. Growth **361**, 129 (2012). * [27] D. Daghero and R. S. Gonnelli,
Supercond. Sci. Technol. **23**, 043001 (2010). * [28] R. S. Gonnelli,
D. Daghero, G. A. Ummarino, V. A. Stepanov, J. Jun, S. M. Kazakov, and
J. Karpinski, Phys. Rev. Lett. **89**, 247004 (2002). * [29] S. Sasaki,
M. Kriener, K. Segawa, K. Yada, Y. Tanaka, M. Sato, and Y. Ando, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **107**, 217001 (2011). * [30] S. Sasaki, Z. Ren, A. A.
Taskin, K. Segawa, L. Fu, and Y. Ando, Phys. Rev. Lett. **109**, 217004
(2012). * [31] D. Daghero, A. Calzolari, G. A. Ummarino, M. Tortello, R.
S. Gonnelli, V. A. Stepanov, C. Tarantini, P. Manfrinetti, and E.
Lehmann, Phys. Rev. B **74**, 174519 (2006). * [32] G. E. Blonder, M.
Tinkham, and T. M. Klapwijk, Phys. Rev. B **25**, 4515 (1982). * [33] M.
Mondal, B. Joshi, S. Kumar, A. Kamlapure, S. C. Ganguli, A. Thamizhavel,
S. S. Mandal, S. Ramakrishnan, and P. Raychaudhuri, Phys. Rev. B **86**,
094520 (2012). * [34] C. Iniotakis, N. Hayashi, Y. Sawa, T. Yokoyama, U.
May, Y. Tanaka, and M. Sigrist, Phys. Rev. B **76**, 012501 (2007). *
[35] J. Linder and A. Sudbo, Phys. Rev. B **76**, 054511 (2007). * [36]
P. Burset, F. Keidel, Y. Tanaka, N. Nagaosa, and B. Trauzettel, Phys.
Rev. B **90**, 085438 (2014).
