# Normal-state Hall effect in YBa₂Cu_(3 − x)Fe_(x)O_(7 − b) single
crystals

M. D. Lan, J. Z. Liu, Y. X. Jia, Lu Zhang, and R. N. Shelton

Department of Physics, University of California, Davis, California 95616

###### Abstract

We have measured the normal-state Hall effect on single crystals of
YBa₂Cu_(3 − x)Fe_(x)O_(7 − b) with the magnetic field perpendicular to
the _ab_ plane and the current in the _ab_ plane. The Hall coefficient
is positive for all crystals (0 ≤ x ≤ 0.20) over the entire temperature
range of our measurement (T_(c) ≤ T ≤ 300 K). A strong temperature
dependence of the Hall coefficient was also observed. We show that the
Hall angle in the normal-state follows the relation cot Θ_(H) = AT² + B,
which is in agreement with Anderson’s prediction for the two-dimensional
Luttinger liquid.

pacs: 71.10.Hm, 71.

carried out in the magnetic field of a Quantum Design superconducting
quantum interference device (SQUID) magnetometer. A direct current of 5
mA was driven in the _ab_ plane and the applied magnetic field up to +-5
T was applied along the c axis.

## Experimental results and discussion

The temperature dependences of the in-plane longitudinal resistivity
r_(x) for various iron compositions are shown in Fig. 1. All single
crystals used in this experiment display a sharp resistive transition
into the superconducting state. With zero applied field, the transition
width _d__T__c_ is only 3 K for the high iron composition crystal
reported in this paper. Combining the resistivity with the
dc-magnetization data indicates that our crystals are of high quality
and that the Fe distribution is homogeneous. The actual Fe content in
the YBa2Cu3-xFexO7-8 crystal was determined by comparing the midpoint
resistive transition temperature to published work on polycrystalline
samples.[14,15] This method was shown to be reliable when compared to
concentrations determined via scanning electron microscopy (SEM) energy
dispersive x-ray (EDX) studies on other crystals.[13] The noteworthy
feature in the resistivity data of Fig. 1 is the metallic behavior
obtained in the normal state up to 300 K for all crystals. The
resistivity is monotonically increased with increasing temperature. The
normal-state resistivity can even extrapolate linearly to zero as T goes
to zero for pure YBCO, while for the higher iron doping, there exists a
finite but small residual resistivity when extrapolating to zero
temperature. This residual resistivity tends to increase as the dopant
content increases. In addition, the slope of the normal-state
resistivity _d__p__xx_/_dT_ was found to increase gradually as the iron
content increases. This observation is similar to the result found in
Zn-doped and in Pr-doped YBCO crystals.[2,4] The absence of a residual
resistivity in the pure YBCO is one piece of evidence that suggests the
failure of the Fermi liquid in the Anderson theory.[16] Moreover, the
linearity of longitudinal resistivity extending to high temperature (300
K) is also an unusual behavior based on the Fermi-liquid picture. Our
normal-state longitudinal resistivity measurement, including the
linearity of r_(x), the appearance of residual resistivity, and the
change of _d__p__xx_/_dT_, provides strong support for the Anderson
non-Fermi-liquid picture.[17] In this model the magnetic doping binds a
spinon, which reduces T_(c) and is the origin of the residual
resistance. It should be noted that not all of the high-_T__c_ oxides
display these features in their electrical transport properties. A
different observation of a concave downward r_(x)(_T_) was found in the
YBa2Cu3-xFexO7-8 system.[18] Based on these data, Pickett and
coauthors[19] do not eliminate the possibility of using the Fermi-liquid
theory to describe these transport properties in high-_T__c_ oxides. In
order to clarify this argument, more experiments are needed on diverse
systems of high-quality cuprate crystals.

In Fig. 2, we display a typical magnetic-field dependence of the Hall
voltage at various temperatures for a single crystal of
YBa2Cu3-xFexO7-8. As shown in this x = 0.04 system, the Hall voltage is
a linear function of the magnetic field in the normal state for a
temperature up to 300 K. Therefore, the Hall coefficients (R_(H)) are
derived from the slopes of these linear curves. The values of R_(H) are
positive over the entire temperature range for all crystals. Generally
speaking, R_(H) increases as the temperature decreases, then it starts
to drop as the superconducting transition temperature is approached. The
variation of the Hall density with temperature in the normal state which
is derived from the Hall coefficient (n_(H) = 1/_e__R__H_) is shown in
Fig. 3. Our measured Hall coefficient R_(H) is around 2 x 10-9 m3/C at
10 K, which corresponds to a value of the Hall number equal to 0.5 holes
per unit cell in the pure YBCO sample. This result is in reasonable
agreement with previously published work.[20,21] Similar to the reports
in other high-_T__c_ oxide superconductors, the Hall density displays a
distinctive temperature dependence over the entire temperature range.
For low-Fe concentration crystals, we found that the temperature
dependence of n_(H) is linear. The trend in Fig. 3 further indicates
that the slope of _dn__H_/_dT_ decreases as the iron composition
increases. For a heavily doped system, the variation of n_(H) with
temperature be

Figure 2: Typical magnetic-field dependence of the Hall voltage at
various representative temperatures for a YBa2Cu296Fe0,04O7−8 single
crystal.

Figure 1: Temperature dependence of the in-plane longitudinal
resistivity in YBa2Cu3−xFexO7−8 single crystals under zero magnetic
field.

comes less pronounced. If n_(H) is proportional to the actual carrier
number n, it suggests that the carriers responsible for the transport
property dramatically diminish with Fe doping. This result may reflect
that the Fe substitution for Cu is primarily on the chain site,1 which
is also consistent with the Mossbauer studies done on
YBa2Cu3-_x_Fe_A_O_7-_b_ single crystals.22 Nevertheless, the strong
temperature dependence of the Hall density cannot be interpreted easily
within the conventional Fermi-liquid one-band model. One possible
mechanism which is often applied to interpret the strong temperature
dependence of the Hall coefficient is magnetic skew scattering. Skew
scattering can be characterized simply by the difference of the
scattering probabilities in the transverse direction when the scattering
potential includes an antisymmetric part. The strong interaction between
conduction electrons and local moments provide an extra contribution
(R_(s)) to the Hall coefficient. Because the magnitude of the local
moments is strongly dependent on the magnetic field and the temperature,
the magnetic Hall coefficient R_(s) is expected23 to follow a similar
functional dependence on H and T. It is possible to extend this model to
the high-_T__c_ oxides if the localized moments exist in the conducting
plane. However, in our YBa2Cu3-_x_Fe_A_O_7-_b_ system, it is very clear
that the Hall voltage remains linear in H up to 5 T over the entire
temperature range of T > T_(c) (see Fig. 2). No symptom of saturation on
V_(T) was shown even for the heavily doped system. We believe that
within our experimental range of field and temperature, magnetic skew
scattering does not make a significant contribution to the Hall
coefficient. That is because the thermal energy is dominant over the
Zeeman energy of the local spins.24 That is, _g_m_B_ H << _K__B__T_,
where g is the g factor, m_(B) is the Bohr magneton, and k_(B) is the
Boltzmann constant.

In addition to those descriptions based on the conventional Fermi-liquid
concepts, Anderson has demonstrated that the plotting of the Hall
cotangent as a function of the temperature is a better way to describe
the transport properties of highly correlated electronic systems. By
separating the relaxation rates of the carrier between its motion normal
to 1/_g__tr_ and parallel to 1/_g__sp_ the Fermi surface, the Anderson
theory predicts that the Hall co-tangent, cot O_(H) can be expressed by

cot Θ_(H) = 1/ω_(c) τ_(sp) = AT² + B

. The quantity o_(c) is known as the cyclotron frequency. A is a
constant, independent of the doping level and B is a constant
proportional to the impurity doping. Furthermore, according to
Anderson’s picture, the constant A is inversely proportional to the
bandwidth of the spin excitation (spinon) or the spin-exchange coupling.
The Hall cotangent is a measure of the transverse relaxation rate
1/_g__sp_, which is mainly determined by the spinon-spinon scattering at
the Fermi surface and should lead to a T2 dependence. The value of B
reflects the contribution from the magnetic doping. In Fig. 4, we
display the temperature dependence of the Hall angle shown as cot O_(H)
vs T2 for various iron concentrations. The error bars arise mainly from
the estimation of the dimensions of the sample and the stability of the
temperature. Within our experimental resolution, the slope of the curve
is essentially independent for the iron composition. The average value
of the slope A for all crystals used is 2.5 x 10-2/K2 at 5 T. The value
is close to the value of 2.1 x 10-2/K2 at 7 T obtained by Rice _et
al._25 for the YBCO-based system. In addition, the value of the
extrapolation B as T approaches zero increases with impurity
concentration. For the pure YBCO crystal, the value of B is close to
zero. For the low composition (_x_ <= 0.04), the extrapolation is
difficult to separate from the pure crystal due to our experimental
resolution. However, for heavy doping (_x_ >= 0.12), the value of B is
definitely larger than zero and increases with iron doping (_x_). Our
data yield an estimate for B equal to 1600 x for H = 5 T, where "_x_" is
the iron doping. Overall, our analysis is in good agreement with the
Anderson theory. From the study of extended x-ray-absorption fine
structure (EXAFS) in the Fe-doped system, the iron K near-edge spectra
show that the Fe impurities exist mostly as 3+ ions.26 Most of the
trivalent Fe are generally agreed to substitute for Cu(1) in the chain
site; therefore, it is not surprising to have a

Figure 4: Temperature dependence of the Hall cotangent at H = 5 T shown
as cot O_(H) vs T2 for various Fe-doped YBa2Cu3O_7-_b_ crystals. The cot
O_(H) is calculated from _μ__us_/(_R__H_*_H_) obtained on the same
crystals. The solid line is a linear fit for the x = 0 sample.

Figure 3: Temperature dependence of the Hall density in various Fe-doped
YBa2Cu3O7−_b_ crystals.

reduction in the hole number. Unfortunately, with our current
experimental accuracy, it is difficult to tell the fraction of the
change in the carrier concentration caused by introducing the iron
dopant. However, we do not expect the Hall density at 300 K to decrease
by a factor of 3 in the x = 0.2 crystal by only replacing 20

## Conclusion

Normal-state longitudinal resistivity and Hall-effect measurements were
performed on Fe-doped YBCO single crystals. No residual resistivity was
observed in the pure YBCO system, while an increasing residual
resistivity was obtained by introducing the magnetic dopant. The
appearance of magnetic doping also causes a change in the slope of the
longitudinal resistivity. These observations are consistent with
Anderson’s argument of bound spinons. In all crystals of
YBa₂Cu_(3 − x)Fe_(x)O⁷ ⁻ ⁸ (0  ≤ x≤ 0.2), R_(H) is found to be positive
over the temperature range from T_(c) to 300 K. The observed Hall
coefficient decreases as the temperature increases. The replacement of
Cu by magnetic Fe ions reduces the transition temperature and suppresses
the variation of Hall density. With increasing iron composition, the
Hall coefficient increases at a fixed temperature. No symptom of
saturation of the Hall voltage was observed for a magnetic field up to 5
T, which demonstrates that magnetic skew scattering is not the mechanism
responsible for the anomalous temperature dependence of the normal-state
Hall coefficient. The linearity of cot Θ_(H) vs T2 in our experiment
gives strong support to Anderson’s theory. This model provides a more
natural method of describing the anomalous normal-state Hall effect and
simultaneously accounting for the effect of the impurity moments.
Because the value of A in the YBa₂Cu_(3 − x)Fe_(x)O⁷ ⁻ ⁸ system is
independent of the concentration of the magnetic dopant, we conclude
that the impurity moment has only a minor effect on the exchange
coupling of the spinons.

###### Acknowledgements.

This research was supported by the U.S. Department of Energy for
Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory under Contract No. W-7405-ENG-48
and also by the National Science Foundation under Grant No.
DMR-90-21029.

## References

* [1] J. Clayhold, N. P. Ong, Z. Z. Wang, J. M. Tarascon, and P.
Barboux, Phys. Rev. B **39**, 7324 (1989). * [2] T. R. Chien, Z. Z.
Wang, and N. P. Ong, Phys. Rev. Lett. **67**, 2088 (1991). * [3] Wu
Jiang, J. L. Peng, S. J. Hagen, and R. L. Greene, Phys. Rev. B **46**,
8694 (1992). * [4] Y. X. Jia, J. Z. Liu, A. Matsushita, M. D. Lan, P.
Klavins, and R. N. Shelton, Phys. Rev. B **46**, 11 745 (1992). * [5]
Gang Xiao, Peng Xiong, and Marta Z. Gielpak, Phys. Rev. B **46**, 8687
(1992). * [6] Clayhold, N. P. Ong, P. H. Hor, and C. W. Chu, Phys. Rev.
B **38**, 7016 (1988). * [7] T. Tokura, H. Takagi, and S. Uchida, Nature
(London) **337**, 345 (1989). * [8] A. Davidson, P. Santhanam, A.
Palevski, and M. J. Brady, Phys. Rev. B **38**, 2828 (1988). * [9] P. W.
Anderson, Phys. Rev. Lett. **67**, 2092 (1991). * [10] N. P. Ong, in
_Physical Properties of High Temperature Superconductors II_, edited by
D. M. Ginsberg (World Scientific, Singapore, 1990), p. 459. * [11] J. Z.
Liu, G. W. Crabtree, A. Umezawa, and Li Zonguan, Phys. Lett. A **121**,
305 (1987). * [12] D. L. Kaiser, F. Holtzberg, B. A. Scott, and T. R.
McGuire, Appl. Phys. Lett. **51**, 1040 (1987). * [13] M. D. Lan, J. Z.
Liu, and R. N. Shelton, Phys. Rev. B **43**, 12 989 (1991). * [14]
Yuowen Xu, M. Suenaga, J. Tafto, R. L. Sabatini, A. R. Moodenbaugh, and
P. Zolliker, Phys. Rev. B **39**, 6667 (1989). * [15] Yuichiro Aravis
and Hajime Shimizu, Physica C **161**, 475 (1989). * [16] P. W.
Anderson, Science **256**, 1526 (1992). * [17] P. W. Anderson, Physica C
**185-189**, 11 (1991). * [18] J. Schoenes, J. Karpinshi, E. Kaldis, J.
Keller, and P. de la Mora, Physica C **166**, 145 (1990). * [19] W. E.
Pickett, H. Krakauer, R. E. Cohen, and D. J. Singh, Science **255**, 46
(1992). * [20] M. Affronte, D. Pavuna, O. Martin, F. Licci, T. Besagni,
and S. Cattani, Solid State Commun. **70**, 951 (1989).

* [21] A. Matsuda, K. Kinoshita, T. Ishii, H. Shibata, T. Watanabe, and
T. Yamada, Phys. Rev. B **38**, 2910 (1988). * [22] T. Okada, M. D. Lan,
J. Z. Liu, R. N. Shelton, T. Matsumoto, and K. Asai, Physica C
**185-189**, 783 (1991). * [23] A. Fert and A. Hamzic, in _The Hall
Effect and Its Applications_, edited by C. L. Chien and C. R. Westgate
(Plenum, New York, 1980). * [24] Z. Z. Wang, T. R. Chien, N. P. Ong, J.
M. Tarascon, and E. Wang, Phys. Rev. B **43**, 3020 (1991). * [25] J. P.
Rice, J. Giapintzakis, D. M. Ginsberg, and J. M. Mochel, Physica C
**185-189**, 1853 (1991); Phys. Rev. B **44**, 10 158 (1991). * [26] H.
Oyanagi, H. Obara, K. Murata, H. Ihara, T. Matsushita, M. Tokumoto, Y.
Nishihara, and Y. Kimura, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **58**, 2140 (1989). * [27]
Y. Nishihara, H. Obara, T. Katayama, H. Oyanagi, K. Murata, Y. Kimura,
and K. Kajimura, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **58**, 2925 (1989). * [28] S.
Suharan, C. E. Johnson, D. H. Jones, M. F. Thomas, and R. Driver, Solid
State Commun. **67**, 125 (1988). * [29] A. Carrington, A. P. Mackenzie,
C. T. Lin, and J. R. Cooper, Phys. Rev. Lett. **69**, 2855 (1993).
