# Anomalous behavior of the complex conductivity of Y1-_x_Pr_Ba2Cu3O7
observed with THz spectroscopy

R. Buhleier, S. D. Brorson, I. E. Trofimov, J. O. White, H.-U.
Habermeier,

and J. Kuhl

Max-Planck-Institut fur Festkorperforschung, D-70569 Stuttgart, Germany

###### Abstract

We have measured the complex conductivity of Y1-_x_Pr_Ba2Cu3O7
single-crystal thin films using coherent THz spectroscopy. We obtain
directly the London penetration depth, the plasma frequency o_(p) , and
the quasiparticle scattering rate 1/_t_. We find that 1/_t_ drops
rapidly with temperature below T_(c) in _all_ the superconducting
samples, implying that this is a _signature_ of high-_T__c_
superconductivity. o_(p) decreases with increasing x, indicating that Pr
takes mobile carriers from the CuO planes. Both the THz and dc
conductivity yield evidence for the opening of a spin gap _above_ T_(c)
.

The large body of vital spectroscopic data on the high-_T__c_
superconducting compound YBa2Cu3O7-_d_ (YBCO) measured in the far
infrared (FIR) as well as the GHz region has revealed many interesting
features. Among them are: the presence of one1 or more2 energy gaps in
the superconducting state, a temperature-dependent penetration depth
that is indicative of _d_-wave pairing,3 and a quasiparticle scattering
rate which is proportional to frequency in the normal state1 and which
drops by four orders of magnitude at T_(c) .4

The technique of THz-time-domain spectroscopy _bridges_ the gap between
the FIR and the GHz regime. THz measurements of YBCO display a peak in
the temperature dependence of s1 below T_(c) , which appears to be
related to a temperature-dependent scattering rate 1/_t_ rather than to
BCS coherence effects.5 Other experiments using the same technique have
revealed that the penetration depth l_(L) , has a temperature dependence
inconsistent with BCS theory.6

Here we report results of a THz investigation into the
Y1-_x_Pr_x_Ba2Cu3O7 (YPrBCO) system. These measurements are of great
interest because samples covering a wide range of critical temperatures
can be obtained simply by varying the Y/Pr ratio.7 Also, because YPrBCO
is fully stoichiometric in the oxygen content, it is more homogeneous
than oxygen-depleted YBCO and does not change from an orthorhombic to a
tetragonal lattice upon decreasing T_(c) . Several mechanisms have been
proposed for the T_(c) suppression, including magnetic pair breaking8
and depletion of holes in the CuO2 planes.9

Recently, the opening of a spin gap at temperatures above T_(c) in
oxygen-deficient YBCO has been deduced from various experiments, e.g.,
dc resistivity and Hall coefficient,10,11 neutron scattering,12 and NMR
measurements.13 However, until now only few electromagnetic measurements
on underdoped YBCO have been linked to the presence of a spin gap.1,14
In this paper, we report evidence for a spin gap obtained from
measurements _both_ at dc _and_ at THz frequencies in YPrBCO, which is
consistent with Pr depleting holes from the CuO planes.9

Our spectroscopic technique involves a coherent time-domain measurement
of a ps microwave impulse _E_(_t_) transmitted through the sample.15 A
Fourier transform yields the complex transmission spectrum _t_(_o_) and
the complex conductivity _s_(_o_), without the use of Kramers-Kronig
analysis. The London penetration depth l_(L)(_T_), the plasma frequency
o_(p) in the clean limit, and the scattering time _t_(_T_) are obtained
with the aid of a two-fluid model.

The microwave source is a biased 30 _m_m transmitting antenna fabricated
on low-temperature-grown GaAs, triggered with  100 fs optical pulses
from a colliding-pulse mode-locked dye laser. The emitted microwave
pulses have spectral components spanning the 0.1-1.0 THz spectral region
which is difficult to access with conventional electronics.16 The
receiver is a 30 _m_m antenna, fabricated on ion-implanted
silicon-on-sapphire and gated with a second pulse from the laser. The
receiver photocurrent is proportional to the incident microwave field.

We investigated five YPrBCO samples having Pr composition x = 0.0, 0.2,
0.3, 0.4, and 1.0. The films are grown by pulsed laser deposition17 onto
NdGaO3 substrates. The film thicknesses are approximately 150 nm (Table
1). NdGaO3 is the ideal substrate because it remains transparent and
nondispersive over the entire spectral bandwidth of our pulses, as well
as over the entire range of temperatures investigated here. The
excellent lattice match of NdGaO3 to YPrBCO is a prerequisite for a low
density of misfit dislocations on the film-substrate interfaces. The
substrates have a (001) orientation, yielding $\hat{\bf c}$-oriented,
twinned films. The critical temperatures T_(c) (Table 1) are determined
from the temperature-dependent resistivity, as measured with a
four-point probe.

c c c c c c x & d (nm) & l_(L)(0) (nm) & _ω__p_ (cm−1) & _T__c_c (K) &
_T__c_c (K)
& & & & & (4-point probe) & (microwave)
0.0 & 155 & 170 ± 10 & 9500 & 93 & 92
0.2 & 134 & 350 ± 10 & 4560 & 68 & 72
0.3 & 170 & 375 ± 7 & 4244 & 53 & 59
0.4 & 170 & 590 ± 15 & 2693 & 40 & 41

Table 1: Film thickness d, London penetration depth l_(L)(0), plasma
frequency _ω__p_, dc-transition temperature _T__c_c_, and activation
temperature _T__c_c_ for Y1-_x_Pr_x_Ba2Cu3O7 with x = 0, 0.2, 0.3, and
0.4.

The transition width (90-10

To calculate the conductivity, we make use of the multiple reflection
formula for the field transmitted through a layer of (complex) index n₂,
thickness d, bounded by media of index n₁ and n₃:

$$t(\omega)\!=\!\frac{t_{12}t_{23}\!\exp[\!\{n_{2}(\omega/c)\,d\}]}{1+r_{12}t_{2 }\!\exp[2\!\{2n_{2}(\omega/c)\,d\}]}\,,$$
(1)

where t_(ij) = 2n_(i)/(n_(i) + n_(j)) is the field transmission
coefficient at the ijth interface, and
r_(ij) = (n_(i) − n_(j))/(n_(i) + n_(j)) is the field reflection
coefficient. In our geometry, n₁ represents vacuum,
$n_{2}\!=\!\sqrt{1+i\sigma(\omega)}/(\epsilon_{0}\omega)$ is the index
of the superconducting layer, and n₃ is the measured index of the
substrate. As n₂(ω/c) d ≪ 1, and n₂ ≫ n₃ ≫ 1 in our samples, Eq. (1)
reduces to

$$t(\omega)=\frac{1+n_{3}}{1+n_{3}+Z_{0}\sigma(\omega)\,d}\,,$$
(2)

where Z₀ is the impedance of free space.

The effect of varying Pr content x (hereafter [Pr]) on the conductivity
spectra σ(ω) at T = 50 K is similar to the effect of varying the
temperature for a given alloy (Fig. 1). The addition of Pr has at least
two interrelated effects: (a) The suppression of T_(c) changes the
partitioning between normal and superconducting carriers. (b) The total
number of carriers N (or their mobility) may be reduced. To the extent
that the superconducting carriers make the largest contribution to σ₂,
both factors (a) and (b) lead one to expect that at a given temperature,
pure YBCO would have the largest σ₂, and it does. Samples with 20

Only normal carriers contribute to σ₁ for ω ≠ 0, but now factors (a) and
(b) compete. At 50 K, σ₁ decreases with [Pr], therefore the effect of a
reduction in N dominates the effect of the shift in T_(c) which
increases the fraction of normal carriers. The data for pure YBCO and 20

Examining σ₂ at a fixed frequency, e.g., 480 GHz (Fig. 2), we see that
it is close to zero at high temperature, but rises sharply at the onset
of superconductivity, thus providing

Figure 2: (a) σ₂(T) and (b) σ₁(T) for Y_(1 − x)Pr_(x)Ba₂Cu₃O₇ at 480
GHz. The dashed curves in (b) show 1/ρ^(*) (see text). The vertical
lines indicate $T_{c}^{\rm sc}$. For clarity, the data for x = 0.3 in
(b) have been multiplied by 1.5. The error bars for the alloys with
x > 0 are comparable to the symbol size.

an independent ac measurement of T_(c) (Table 1). In all of the
superconducting alloys, below T_(c) , σ₁ displays a peak, which has been
previously observed only in fully oxygenated YBCO using microwave
techniques [58, 53] as well as by measuring the thermal conductivity
[19]. It has been attributed to a sharp rise in the scattering time τ of
normal carriers below T_(c) offsetting the decrease in the fraction of
normal carriers, although coherence effects remain a possibility. For
pure YBCO, the peak value is about 20 times higher than σ₁(100 K). With
increasing [Pr] the peak height in σ₁ decreases but the temperature
corresponding to the peak position does not shift significantly.

The normal-state behavior of our samples is particularly interesting
because _underdoped_ materials such as (124)YBCO and oxygen-deprived
(123)YBCO undergo a phase transition associated with the opening of a
spin gap at a temperature T_(D)>T_(c). Evidence for the presence of a
spin gap has been seen in neutron scattering [12, 20], dc resistivity
measurements [10, 11], and FIR reflectivity [14]. Recent experimental
[21] and theoretical [9] work confirm that YPrBCO alloys are also
underdoped, i.e., superconductivity is suppressed, because holes are
removed from the CuO₂ planes.

If the normal carriers couple strongly to spin fluctuations, the opening
of a spin gap should be accompanied by an _increase_ in the scattering
time τ, giving rise to an _enhancement_ in σ₁ below T_(D) for ω<1/τ. For
pure (optimally doped) YBCO, at 480 GHz, σ₁ shows only a single
transition at T_(c) [Fig. 2(b)]. For the (underdoped) alloys, σ₁ has two
transitions, one at T_(c) , the other at a higher temperature which
increases with [Pr]. To accentuate the two transitions, Fig. 2(b) is
shaded in the region bounded by T_(c) , the experimental curve, and a
dashed line representing 1/(α + βT) behavior.

A second, higher transition temperature in the underdoped samples is
also observed in the dc resistivity [Fig. 3(a)]. The transition is
manifested as a deviation from a linear T dependence. To show the
deviation more clearly, the resistivity is first fit to a line ρ =
α + βT between 250 and 300 K, and then the experimental values are
normalized to the value determined by the line as ρ^(*) = ρ/(α + βT).
The normalized resistivity [Fig. 3(b)] of the YPrBCO alloys shows a
transition occurring at a temperature above T_(c) similar to that which
has been observed in underdoped YBCO, and connected to the opening of a
spin gap [10, 11].

For the evaluation of λ_(L) we are using a two-fluid model of the form

$$\sigma(\omega)=\frac{e_{0}\omega_{p}^{2}\tau}{1-i\omega\tau}\,x_{n}+\frac{1}{ \mu_{0}\lambda_{L}^{2}}\biggl{(}-\pi\delta(\omega)+\frac{i}{\omega}\biggr{)}x _{s}\,,$$
(3)

where ω_(p) is the plasma frequency, and x_(n) and x_(s) are the
fractions of normal and superconducting carriers, given by x_(n) + x_(s)
= 1. We derive the penetration depth from a fit to Eq. (3). In our
frequency range, we can ignore the Drude contribution to σ₂ for
temperatures which are more than a degree below T_(c). As x_(n)=0 at T=
0 in the two-fluid scenario, we have x_(s)=[λ_(L)(0)/λ_(L)(T)]². Shown
in Fig. 4 is the measured [λ_(L)(0)/λ_(L)(T)]² vs T/T_(c)^(∞) for all
samples. Also plotted are theoretical curves from weak-coupling BCS
theory [22] and the functional form

[λ_(L)(0)/λ_(L)(T)]² = 1  − (T/T_(c))^(α).
(4)

Power-law behavior in the dependence of λ_(L) on T for T→0 is one
signature of "unconventional superconductivity," i.e., nodes in the
energy gap in k space [23]. Our data are intermediate between BCS theory
and α = 2, which is the exponent predicted for d-wave pairing with
impurity scattering [24]. Microwave measurements at lower frequencies
have indicated both α = 2 (Ref. [4]) and α = 1 (in the T→ 0 limit)
corresponding to d-wave pairing in very high-quality samples [3, 25].
The Gorter-Casimir two-fluid model (α = 4) [26], as well as d-wave
pairing (α = 1) are clearly inconsistent with our data.

λ_(L)(0) is obtained by extrapolating λ_(L)(T) to T = 0 using a
quadratic regression (Table 1). Our value for pure YBCO, 170± 10 nm, is
close to the 145 nm value typical for good samples [4]. λ_(L)(0)
increases with increasing [Pr] as the samples become less
superconducting.

Figure 4: Normalized London penetration depth λ_(L)(T/T_(c)^(∞)) for
Y${}_{1-$Pr_(x)Ba₂Cu₃O₇. Also shown are curves corresponding to the
predictions of BCS theory (solid line), as well as to the functional
form (4) for α = 1 (dash-dotted line), 2 (dashed line), and 4 (dotted
line).

The plasma frequency ω_(p) (Table 1) is determined with the relation
ω_(p) = c/λ_(L)(0), which is valid in the clean limit, provided all
carriers are superconducting at T = 0. The clean limit assumption
becomes less valid upon substitution of Pr, therefore the values for the
alloys are only estimates. Our value of 9500 cm⁻¹ in pure YBCO is close
to the 12 000 cm⁻¹ value indicative of good sample quality.[2]

The quasiparticle scattering rate 1/τ is calculated by fitting Eq. (3)
to the data for σ₁ and using, for x_(n), the relation
x_(n) = 1 − x_(s) = 1 − [λ_(L)(0)/λ_(L)(T)]². We find that 1/τ decreases
slowly with decreasing temperature until T ∼ T_(c), after which it
decreases exponentially rapidly (Fig. 5), possibly reflecting the
opening up of a gap in the fluctuation spectrum. Similar behavior has
been reported in YBCO samples.[4] The scattering rate 1/τ reveals an
exponential decay below T_(c) by more than two orders of magnitude for
all samples with different [Pr].[27] Thus we are led to conclude that
this behavior is a universal feature of high-T_(c) superconductivity.

For T  > T_(c), we find the surprising result that 1/τ decreases with
[Pr] implying that alloy scattering plays a negligible role, and that
depletion of carriers in the CuO₂ planes dominates the scattering. It
should be noted, however, that the drop in 1/τ with [Pr] may be due to
an underestimate of ω_(p), if the clean limit assumption breaks down for
the alloys. A more precise determination of the scattering rate
dependence on [Pr] above T_(c) is beyond the scope of this paper.

In conclusion, we have presented complex conductivity experiments in the
THz range on thin films of Y_(1 − x)Pr_(x)Ba₂Cu₃O₇. σ₁(T) reveals the
anomalous coherence peak for all superconducting alloys. Both the
conductivity in the THz region and dc resistivity measurements provide
evidence for the opening of a spin gap in the excitation spectrum of the
underdoped samples. σ₂(ω, T) yields directly the penetration depth. For
the superconducting YPrBCO alloys the plasma frequency ω_(p) in the
clean limit decreases with [Pr] above T_(c) due to a reduced number of
carriers. The temperature-dependent quasiparticle scattering rate 1/τ(T)
shows an exponential drop below T_(c) in all the alloys. These
observations fit into the picture of Pr suppressing superconductivity by
reduction of the mobile carrier concentration in the superconducting
CuO₂ planes.

We acknowledge discussions with L. Genzel, A. Bussmann-Holder, P.
Horsch, I. Mazin, T. Timusk, J.P. Carbotte, P. Littlewood, and S.
Anlage. S.D.B. and J.O.W. acknowledge support by the Alexander von
Humboldt Foundation.

## References

* [1] L. D. Rotter _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **67**, 2741 (1991). * [2]
L. Genzel, M. Bauer, H. U. Habermeier, and E. H. Brandt, Z. Phys. B
**90**, 3 (1993). * [3] W. N. Hardy _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **70**,
3999 (1993). * [4] D. A. Bonn _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **47**, 11 314
(1993). * [5] M. C. Nuss _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **66**, 3305
(1991). * [6] S. D. Brorson _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **49**, 6185
(1994). * [7] H. B. Radousky, J. Mater. Res. **7**, 1917 (1992). * [8]
G. Y. Guo and W. M. Temmermann, Phys. Rev. B **41**, 6372 (1990). * [9]
R. Fehrenbacher and T. M. Rice, Phys. Rev. Lett. **70**, 3471 (1993). *
[10] B. Bucher _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **70**, 2012 (1993). * [11] T.
Ito, K. Takenaka, and S. Uchida, Phys. Rev. Lett. **70**, 3995 (1993). *
[12] J. Rossat-Mignod _et al._, Physica B **169**, 58 (1991). * [13] H.
Alloul, T. Ohno, and P. Mendels, Phys. Rev. Lett. **63**, 1700 (1989). *
[14] C. C. Homes _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **71**, 1645 (1993). * [15]
D. Grischkowsky, S. Keiding, M. van Exter, and C. Fattinger, J. Opt.
Soc. Am. **7**, 2006 (1990). * [16] A. A. Volkov _et al._, Sov. Phys.
JETP **68**, 148 (1989). * [17] H. U. Habermeier _et al._, Physica C
**180**, 17 (1991). * [18] D. A. Bonn, P. Dosanith, R. Liang, and W. N.
Hardy, Phys. Rev. Lett. **68**, 2390 (1992). * [19] R. C. Yu _et al._,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **69**, 1431 (1992). * [20] P. M. Gehring _et al._,
Phys. Rev. B **44**, 2811 (1991). * [21] K. Takenaka _et al._, Phys.
Rev. B **46**, 5833 (1992). * [22] B. Muhlschlegel, Z. Phys. **155**,
313 (1959). * [23] M. Sigrist and K. Ueda, Rev. Mod. Phys. **63**, 239
(1991). * [24] P. Monthoux and D. Pines, Phys. Rev. B **47**, 6069
(1993). * [25] Z. Ma _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **71**, 781 (1993). *
[26] C. J. Gorter and H. G. B. Casimir, Phys. Z. **35**, 963 (1934). *
[27] Following O. Klein [Phys. Rev. Lett. **72**, 1390 (1994)], we
cannot be certain about the exact form of 1/τ near T_(c), as our model,
which includes no direct absorption, breaks down near T_(c) when the gap
goes to zero. Nevertheless, our model is good outside the region right
below T_(c), and the magnitude of the drastic change in 1/τ is still
valid.

Figure 5: Quasiparticle scattering rate 1/τ(T) for
Y_(1 − x)Pr_(x)Ba₂Cu₃O₇ at 480 GHz.
