# Significant change in the electronic behavior associated with
structural distortions

in monocrystalline SrAg4As2

Bing Shen,1 Eve Emmanouilidou,1 Xiaoyu Deng,2 Alix McCollam,3 Jie Xing,1
Gabriel Kotliar,2 Amalia I. Coldea,4 and Ni Ni1

###### Abstract

Here, we report a combined study of transport and thermodynamic
measurements on the layered pnictide material SrAg4As2. Upon cooling, a
drop in electrical and Hall resistivity, a jump in heat capacity, and an
increase in susceptibility and magnetoresistance are observed around 110
K. All suggest nonmagnetic phase transitions emerge at around 110 K,
likely associated with structural distortions. In sharp contrast with
the first-principles calculations based on the crystal structure at room
temperature, quantum oscillations reveal small Fermi pockets with light
effective masses, suggesting significant change in the Fermi surface
topology caused by the low-temperature structural distortion. No
superconductivity emerges in SrAg4As2 down to 2 K under pressures up to
2.13 GPa; instead, the low-temperature structural distortion moves up
linearly to high temperature at a rate of ≈13 K/GPa above 0.89 GPa.

10.1103/PhysRevB.98.235130 2018 9 May 2018; revised manuscript received
11 November 2018; published 13 December 2018

## I Introduction

Quasi-low-dimensional materials have attracted immense research interest
because they often host exotic ground states due to strong quantum and
thermal fluctuations. Layered pnictide materials have provided a rich
platform to explore these ground states and the competitions among them.
For example, the Fermi surface nesting leads to electronic/magnetic
instabilities, resulting in spin-density-wave (SDW) state in Fe pnictide
superconductors [1,2] and the charge-density wave (CDW) in RAgSb2 family
[3,4]. For the former, the SDW order competes with the superconductivity
and quantum critical behavior was argued in P-doped BaFe2As2 family [5].
For the latter, the CDW opens a gap at the Dirac point, leading to the
exotic properties [6]. Among the layered pnictide, the ones containing
AgAs have shown rich structural varieties, such as BaAg2As2 [7] as well
the derivatives of the HfCuSi2 structure [8]. In this paper, we focus on
the layered ternary pnictide SrAg4As2, which crystallizes in the
centrosymmetric trigonal space group $R\bar{3}m$[9], as shown in the
right inset of Fig. 1(a). It can be taken as ordered SrAg2As2 mixed with
itinerant Ag layers, where Ag atoms (light blue balls) in the itinerant
Ag layers partially occupy three different sites. As a charge-balanced
Zintl phase, first-principles calculations suggest that it is a gapless
system [9]. We have performed a systematic study of SrAg4As2 through
transport and thermodynamic measurements. We show that at least one
nonmagnetic phase transition exists in this material and affects the
electronic states in the system and results in various anomalies across
the transition in its physical properties. In sharp contrast with the
first-principles calculations which were performed on the
room-temperature crystal structure, by examining the quantum
oscillations in this material, we reveal a few much smaller Fermi
pockets with light masses, pointing to the change of Fermi surface
topology caused by the low-temperature structural distortion.

## II Single-crystal growth and experimental methods

The single crystals of SrAg4As2 were grown via the self-flux method. The
starting materials Sr and Ag2As were mixed according to the molar ratio
Sr : Ag2As = 1 : 4. They were loaded into a 2-ml alumina crucible and
sealed inside an evacuated quartz tube. The growth ampoule was heated to
1100 degC and slowly cooled to 650 degC at a rate of 5 degC/h, at which
temperature the single crystals were separated by decanting the flux in
a centrifuge. Sizable platelike single crystals were harvested, as shown
in the left inset of Fig. 1(a). The typical size of the crystals can be
up to 3 x 3 x 0.5 mm3 and the as-grown surface is the _ab_ plane.

Electrical resistivity, Hall coefficient, and heat capacity data up to
300 K were collected using a Quantum Design Physical Property
Measurement System (QD PPMS Dyna-cool). Seebeck coefficient was measured
by a homemade probe inserted in the PPMS sample chamber [10]. The
resistivity above 300 K was measured using a homemade probe in a tube
furnace, where the tube chamber was connected to a vacuum pump to keep
the pressure inside below 20 mTorr. The standard four-probe
configuration was used in the electrical resistivity (ρ_(xx)) and Hall
resistivity (ρ_(yx)) measurements. Four Pt wires were attached to the
resistivity bar using Dupont silver paste 7713. During the transport
measurements, the magnetic field was swept from −9 to 9 T. The data were
then processed to get ρ_(xx) using
ρ_(xx)(B) = [ρ_(xx)(B) + ρ_(xx) − (B)]/2 and ρ_(yx) using
ρ_(yx)(B) = [ρ_(yx)(B)) − ρ_(yx) − (B)]/2. The susceptibility was
measured with a QD Magnetic Properties Measurement System (QD MPMS). The
high-field ρ_(xx) data up to 35 T were collected at the High Field
Magnet Laboratory (HFML) in Nijmegen.

Pressures up to ≈2.13 GPa were applied using a Be-Cu piston pressure
cell made by C&T Factory Co. Silicone oil [viscosity 5 cSt (25^(∘)C),
Sigma-Aldrich] was used as the pressure medium. The hydrostaticity of
silicone oil of a wide range of viscosities has been studied and was
found to be an excellent pressure medium even up to extremely high
pressures [11,12]. The feedthrough was sealed using Stycast 2850 FT. We
determined the pressure inside the sample space through the pressure
dependence of the superconducting transition of Pb.

First-principles calculations based on density functional theory (DFT)
were carried out to study the electronic structure. The full-potential
linearized augmented plane-wave method and the generalized gradient
approximation of the exchange-correlation potential as implemented in
the wien2k package were used [13].

## III III. Experimental results and discussion

### A. Physical properties of SrAg₄As₂

The temperature-dependent resistivity, heat capacity, and susceptibility
of SrAg₄As₂ up to 300 K are presented in Figs. 1(a) and 1(b). It is a
diamagnetic metal with ρ₀ around 3μΩ cm. Upon cooling, between T₁ ∼ 102
K and T₂ ∼ 117 K, aside from subsequent slope changes in resistivity as
shown in Fig. 1(a) and subsequent slope changes in susceptibility as
shown in the inset of Fig. 1(b), two broad peaks in heat capacity [Fig.
1(a)], which are distinct from the heat capacity with a first-order
phase transition [14], are observed, featuring second-order phase
transitions. The Debye temperature inferred from the low-temperature
heat capacity is 140 K. The diamagnetic susceptibility is mainly due to
the core diamagnetism of the heavy silver atoms and Landau diamagnetism,
suggesting that the phase transitions lack a magnetic nature. Hereafter,
we will call these transitions as the low-temperature phase transitions.
The left inset of Fig. 1(a) shows the temperature-dependent resistivity
data up to 750 K. Upon warming, aside from the slope changes between 102
and 117 K, an additional resistivity slope change was observed at
T_(h) ∼ 715 K, suggesting an additional high-temperature nonmagnetic
phase transition in this compound.

The temperature-dependent Hall resistivity ρ_(yx) and magnetoresistance
(MR) taken at 9 T are shown in Fig. 1(c). While the nonlinear field
dependence of ρ_(yx) shown in the inset of Fig. 1(c) suggests multiband
transport, the positive sign of ρ_(yx) suggests that holes dominate the
transport. Anomalies appear in both ρ_(yx)(T) and MR(T). Upon cooling,
ρ_(yx) first slightly increases by 8% from 300 K to the transition
temperature, where it exhibits a sudden drop back to the
room-temperature value; it then roughly remains constant at lower
temperatures. In contrast to the roughly temperature independent ρ_(yx),
upon cooling, the magnitude of the MR first increases by 50% across the
transition; then it monotonically grows by seven times down to 2 K. A
sharp increase of the MR in the low-temperature region was observed in
various nonmagnetic multiband systems, such as the type-II Weyl
semimetal WTe₂, the weak topological insulator NbAs₂, the Weyl semimetal
TaAs, etc. [15, 16, 17, 18], where the compensation of holes and
electrons can induce the resistivity upturn (so called turn-on

Figure 1: (a) The temperature-dependent resistivity and heat capacity.
Left inset: a single crystal of SrAg₄As₂ against a 1-mm scale. Top left
inset: the temperature-dependent resistivity measured up to 750 K. (b)
The temperature-dependent susceptibility measured with B ∥ ab at B = 1
T. Bottom left inset: the zoomed-in susceptibility around 110 K. Right
inset: the crystal structure of SrAg₄As₂ at 300 K. Dark green ball: Sr;
dark blue ball: fully occupied Ag sites; light blue ball: partially
occupied Ag sites; gray ball: As. (c) The temperature-dependent Hall
resistivity (ρ_(yx)) and transverse magnetoresistance (MR) taken at
B = 9 T and B ∥ c. Inset: the field-dependent ρ_(yx) taken with B ∥ c at
T = 2 K and 110 K.

effect) at low temperatures [19]. For SrAg₄As₂, the 50

Nonmagnetic phase transitions can be electron driven or lattice driven.
Electron-driven Mott phase transition is unlikely here since strong
Coulomb interaction is unexpected for Ag¹⁺ ions. Lattice-driven
structural phase transition is a probable candidate. Meanwhile,
considering that Fermi surface nesting may show up in materials with
layered structure, electron-driven charge-density-wave (CDW) formation
is a possible candidate too. The chance of hosting a CDW transition may
not be high since the resistivity anomaly in SrAg₄As₂ does not show the
hump feature of a typical CDW phase transition. However, because the CDW
may only gap a small portion of the Fermi surface and the formation of
CDW can significantly increase the scattering rate, we still can not
exclude the possibility. Further investigation using scanning tunneling
microscope is needed to check if electron density modulation exists so
that the two scenarios can be distinguished. Nevertheless, in both
cases, structural distortions will take place. Therefore, hereafter, we
will call the transitions around 110 K as low-temperature structural
distortions.

### Magnetotransport properties of SrAg₄As₂

Angle-dependent transverse MR (AMR) measured with the field B
perpendicular to the current is a powerful tool to probe the Fermi
surface topology since the AMR is sensitive to the mobility tensor
μ̂ = τm̂⁻¹, where τ is the relaxation time and m̂ is the mass tensor
closely related to the Fermi surface topology [20]. Figures 2(a) and
2(b) show the AMR taken at 9 T at various temperatures with B rotating
in the planes perpendicular to the c axis and a axis, respectively. The
AMR in Fig. 2(a) with B ⊥ c shows the threefold angular oscillations
with very little anisotropy at all temperatures, consistent with the
threefold rotational symmetry of the ab plane and suggesting small
in-plane anisotropy. In sharp contrast, the AMR in Fig. 2(b) with B ⊥ a
shows a twofold rotational symmetry, where strong anisotropy with a
ratio between the maxima and minima of about 3.5 exists, suggesting a
quasi-two-dimensional electronic structure in this compound. The AMR
reaches its minimum value when B ∥ ab plane (0^(∘)) and gradually
increases when the field rotates toward the c axis (90^(∘)) with the
maxima somewhere around 45^(∘). This morphology suggests a more complex
Fermi surface than a simple two-dimensional one. We noticed that at
temperatures higher than 100 K, the feature at 45^(∘) in Fig. 2(b) is
gone. It raises the question of whether the appearance of this feature
is related to a significant Fermi surface reconstruction caused by the
low-temperature structural distortion. To clarify this, we measured AMR
at 2 K with B ⊥ a under various fields, as shown in Fig. 2(c). The solid
line is the simulated curve based on a cylindrical Fermi surface
assumption. At lower field, the AMR agrees well with the simulated curve
and the maximum AMR appears at B ∥ c. With increasing field, deviations
appear and the direction where the maximum AMR occurs move further and
further away from the c axis. Therefore, the deviation from the
two-dimensional Fermi surface observed in Figs. 2(b) and 2(c) is more
likely to be due to the fact that the mobility tensor of carriers
associated with each Fermi pocket have different temperature and field
dependencies.

Figure 2(d) shows the temperature-dependent geometric mean of the
mobilities μ̄ while the inset shows the field-dependent electrical
conductivity σ_(xy) at 2 K which was calculated using
σ_(xy) = ρ_(yx)/ρ_(xx)² + ρ_(yx)². According to the standard
Bloch-Boltzmann transport theory [21], we inferred the geometric mean of
the mobilities $\bar{\mu}\equiv\sqrt{\mu_{1}\mu_{2}}$ using the formula
$\bar{\mu}=1/B_{\rm max}$, where $B_{\rm max}$ is the field at which
σ_(xy)(B) peaks at μ̄ increases with decreasing temperature with the
value of 0.5 m² V⁻¹ s⁻¹ at 2 K. This value is larger than that in the
nodal line semimetal candidate CaAgAs [22] but smaller than those in
WTe₂, Cd₃As₂, etc. [15, 21].

Figure 2(e) shows the field-dependent MR up to 9 T with the current
along the a axis. With B ∥ a, MR shows convex behavior with field.
Instead of the quadratic field dependence, MR is roughly proportional to
B^(1.2) [the bottom inset of Fig. 2(e)]. With B ∥ c, MR shows concave
behavior with field, which may be a trend of saturation. However, even
with fields up to 35 T along the c axis, no saturation is realized up to
25 K, the highest temperature we measured. MR is roughly proportional to
B^(0.75) in an extended field range from

Figure 2: (a), (b) The polar plot of the transverse angle-dependent
magnetoresistance (AMR) of SrAg₄As₂ at various temperatures with B ⊥ c
and B ⊥ a at 9 T, respectively. B is perpendicular to the current flow.
(c) The AMR of SrAg₄As₂ at various fields at 2 K. Hollow symbols:
experimental data. Solid lines: simulated AMR assuming cylindrical Fermi
pocket. (d) The temperature-dependent average mobility. Inset: the
field-dependent electrical conductivity σ_(xy) at 2 K. (e) The
field-dependent MR [MR(B)] at 2 K with B ∥ c or  ∥ a up to 9 T. Top
inset: the log-log plot of the MR(B) at 2 K with B ∥ c up to 35 T.
Bottom inset: the log-log plot of the MR(B) at 2 K with B ∥ a.

2 to 35 T and reaches 600

### Quantum oscillations of SrAg₄As₂

Quantum oscillations are observed in both resistivity and magnetization
measurements above 1 T at low temperatures, as shown in Fig. 3(a). To
shed light on the Fermi surface topology in the low-temperature
structure, we performed a systematic study of Shubnikov-de Haas (SdH)
quantum oscillations (QO) and de Haas-van Alphen (dHvA) QO for SrAg₄As₂.
According to the Onsager relation, the area S of the extreme cross
section of the Fermi surface which is perpendicular to the applied field
are related to the oscillation frequency f by the equation
$f=\frac{\hbar}{2\pi}S$[29]. Figure 3(b) presents the fast Fourier
transformation (FFT) spectra of the oscillating $\rho_{xx_{\rm osc}}$
and $M_{\rm osc}$, where $\rho_{xx_{\rm osc}}$ and $M_{\rm osc}$ are
obtained by subtracting a polynomial background from ρ_(xx) and M,
respectively. Different oscillation frequencies are detected. Combining
all three sets of data measured on different samples (see Supplemental
Material [30]), we were able to assign the oscillations to four
fundamental frequencies (F₁ = 38 T, F₂ = 125 T, F₃ = 173 T, F₄ = 760 T)
and the harmonics of F₂, as labeled in Fig. 3(b).

Quantum oscillations are a function of both B and T. For the dHvA
oscillations which occur in the magnetization, $M_{\rm osc}(B,T)$ can be
described by the Lifshits-Kosevich (LK) formula [29]

$$M_{\rm osc}(B,T)\propto(B)^{\lambda}R_{T}R_{D}{\rm sin}[2\pi(F/B+\gamma- \delta)],$$
(1)

A(B, T) ∝ (B)^(λ)R_(T)R_(D),
(2)

$$R_{T}=\frac{\alpha Tm^{*}/Bm_{e}}{{\rm sinh}(\alpha Tm^{*}/Bm_{e})},$$
(3)

$$R_{D}={\rm exp}(-\alpha T_{D}m^{*}/Bm_{e}),$$
(4)

where A(B, T) is the amplitude of the QO, R_(T) is the thermal damping
term which dominates the temperature dependence of the oscillations,
R_(D) is the Dingle damping factor which dominates the field dependence
of the oscillations, F is the oscillation frequency, T is the
temperature, m_(e) is the free-electron mass,
α = 2π²k_(B)m_(e)/eℏ = 14.69 T/K, m^(*) is the cyclotron effective mass,
and $T_{D}=\frac{\hbar}{2\pi k_{B}}$ is the Dingle temperature which is
a measure of the single-particle scattering rate τ_(s). λ is a
dimensional factor, which is $\frac{1}{2}$ for the three-dimensional
(3D) case and 0 for the two-dimensional (2D) case. The phase factor
γ − δ and the Berry phase ϕ_(B) are related by the equation
ϕ_(B) = π − 2πγ and the phase shift δ is 0 or $\pm\frac{1}{8}$ for 2D or
3D Fermi surfaces, respectively.

Let us take the dHvA oscillation as an example to explain how data
analysis of QO is performed. The experimental QO of a material are a
summation of individual oscillations associated with each oscillation
frequency. If only one quantum oscillation frequency exists, the data
analysis to infer m^(*) and T_(D) is straightforward and is described as
follows [22] (method 1). First, by subtracting a smooth background of
M(B), we can obtain the oscillation part $M_{\rm osc}(B)$. Then, at each
temperature, we extract the amplitude of the $M_{\rm osc}(B)$ at a fixed
B₁ so that a plot of the temperature-dependent oscillation amplitude
A(T) can be made. By fitting A(T) using Eq. (1) with B = B₁, the m^(*)
can be obtained without approximation. Then, at a fixed temperature T₁,
we can make a plot of the field-dependent oscillation amplitude A(B). By
fitting A(B) using Eq. (1) with T = T₁ and m^(*), the Dingle temperature
T_(D) can be determined. Finally, using m^(*) and T_(D), and by fitting
the $M_{\rm osc}(B)$ at the fixed temperature T₁, the Berry phase can be
obtained.

However, in most cases, more than one oscillation frequency exists. If
we do a fast Fourier transformation (FFT) of $M_{\rm osc}(B)$ and these
frequencies are well separated, we can filter out the individual
oscillations associated with each frequency [16]. A sanity check can be
made to see if the summation of these individual oscillations agrees
with the total experimental oscillation. Then, for each individual
oscillatory pattern, method 1 can be used to infer m^(*) and T_(D) for
that frequency/Fermi pocket without approximation. With the known
m^(*)’s and T_(D)’s, a multiband LK fitting of $M_{\rm osc}(B)$ at a
fixed temperature T₁ can be made using Eq. (1) to determine the Berry
phase associated with each frequency.

For the above two situations, no approximation of the LK formula is
needed during the data analysis. Now, let us move to the most
complicated situation where those frequencies are not well separated but
overlap with each other and, as a result, individual oscillations cannot
be obtained without beats. In this situation, standard FFT data analysis
method with an "average" B has to be used (method 2). This is the case
for SrAg₄As₂. First, we performed FFT on $M_{\rm osc}(B)$ in the FFT
window of B₁ and B₂ at various temperatures. Second, we collected the
amplitude of the FFT, $A^{\rm FFT}$, for each QO FFT peak at various
temperatures to get $A^{\rm FFT}(B,T)$. We then fit the data with Eq.
(1) to obtain m^(*) where an "average" B of 2/(1/B₁ + 1/B₂) is used.

For SrAg₄As₂, we found that F₂ in the dHvA oscillations can be
relatively nicely band-pass filtered into oscillations with only weak
beats, as shown in Fig. 3(c). We then used method 1 to analyze the
pattern in Fig. 3(c) to get m^(*). Six different values were chosen for
B₁, and the resulted m^(*) are shown as red spheres in Fig. 3(d). They
show very small variation, with m^(*)/m_(e) = 0.093(2). Using this value
for m^(*), T_(D) was found to be 2.43(6) K, suggesting a long quantum
lifetime of τ_(s) = 0.50(1) ps. This value is a few times longer than
that of Cd₃As₂ but similar to the one of ZrTe₅[27, 31]. Since SrAg₄As₂
shows partial occupancy which is a necessary condition for the chemical
bonding rules to be satisfied [9], it is surprising to see the charge
carriers can have such a long quantum lifetime.

We then obtained m^(*) of F₂ using method 2 by varying B₁ from 0.5 to 7
T, as shown in Fig. 3(e). We found that m^(*) varies much with the
choice of B₁. In Fig. 3(e), we also plotted m^(*) of F₂ obtained using
method 1 with 99

To further investigate the Fermi surface topology, we studied the
angle-dependent SdH oscillations and compared them with the
first-principles calculations. The measurement geometry is shown in the
inset of Fig. 4(a). B was rotated from the a axis to the c axis and then
to the −a axis. The angle-dependent FFT spectra of ρ_(x_(exc)) obtained
using data C are presented in Fig. 4(a). Both F₂ and F₃ have minima at
B ∥ c and increase with the field B rotating away from the c axis,
suggesting that the associated Fermi pockets have the minimum extreme
cross sections in the plane perpendicular to c.

To understand the observed SdH, DFT band structure calculations were
performed using the crystal structure in Ref. [9] obtained at 300 K. The
referenced crystal structure shows that there are four Ag sites. Two of
them have very low occupancies [0.051(3) and 0.036(4)], one has a higher
occupancy of 0.789(8) and another is set to be fully occupied. To
simplify the calculation, the Ag sites with low partial occupancies are
ignored while the Ag site with larger partial occupancy is fully
occupied. Figure 4(c) shows the density of states (DOS) plot. It
suggests a semimetallic character for

Figure 3: (a) The field-dependent resistivity and magnetization at 2 K
with B ∥ c. (b) The FFT spectra obtained from M_(osc) (data A), HFML
ρ_(x_(exc)) (data B), and PPMS ρ_(x_(exc)) (data C). Polynomial fitting
is used to remove the smooth background from M(B) and ρ_(x_(exc)) to get
M_(osc) and ρ_(x_(exc)). The FFT was performed from 0.5 to 7 T on
M_(osc) (data A), from 4 to 35 T on HFML ρ_(x_(exc)) (data B), and from
0.8 to 9 T on PPMS ρ_(x_(exc)) (data C). The fundamental oscillation
peaks and the harmonic peaks are labeled as F₁, F₂, F₂, F₃, F₂, F₃, and
F₄. (c) M_(osc) associated with F₂ (data A) vs 1/B at 2 K. The method to
obtain M_(osc) is described in the text. Inset: the detail of the FFT
spectrum near F₂. (d) The Dingle plot and the evolution of the cyclotron
effective mass of F₂ with B₁. Method 1 as described in the text is used
for the data analysis. (e) The evolution of the cyclotron effective mass
of F₂ with B₁. Method 2 as described in the text is used for the data
analysis. The orange rectangle shows the cyclotron effective mass of F₂
obtained using method 1 with 99

SrAg₄As₂, consistent with experiments. The DOS at the Fermi level is
dominated by arsenic p orbitals while the Ag d orbital weights small.
Therefore, although our DFT calculation employed simplified crystal
structure ignoring the Ag sites with low occupancies, it should keep the
main features of the Fermi surface. Figure 4(b) shows the DFT band
structure. The feature of the band structure near the Fermi level is not
affected by spin-orbit coupling. Two types of Fermi pockets exist, as
shown in Fig. 4(d). The hole pocket centered at the Γ point is two
dimensional along the Γ-Z direction with the effective mass of 0.4m_(e)
when B ∥ c while the electron pocket centered at the F point is a
three-dimensional oblate ellipsoid with the effective mass of 0.5m_(e)
when B ∥ c, consistent with the electron-hole compensation suggested by
the observed turn-on effect. However, the inferred frequencies from the
minimum extreme cross section of the two Fermi pockets are around 1000
T, much larger than F₁ to F₃ (7, 125, and 173 T) we observed
experimentally but reasonably close to the F₄∼ 780 T.

Considering the small SdH Fermi pockets with extremely small effective
masses and the dramatic discrepancy between QO and DFT calculations, the
Fermi surface topology must have changed significantly due to the
low-temperature structural distortion. Unexpected small Fermi pockets
have been discovered in cuprates, as the result of the band-folding
effect due to the formation of CDW [32, 33], while band folding has been
observed in Fe-based superconductors due to the structural and magnetic
phase transitions [34]. At low temperatures, the structural modulation
expands the unit cell and lowers the symmetry of the crystal. As a
consequence, the Brillouin zone is folded and small Fermi pockets can
appear. Further investigation is needed to clarify the origin of this
low-temperature structural distortion and thus to explain if the small
Fermi pockets observed are from a simple band-folding effect.

### Effect of external pressure on SrAg₄As₂

Tuning the phase transitions using either chemical doping/intercalation
or external pressure may result in unusual ground states. For example,
suppressing the CDW order in TiSe₂ using Cu intercalation has led to the
appearance of superconductivity [35]. The suppression of SDW in LaFeAsO
by F doping on the O sites has made the discovery of the second
high-temperature superconducting family [2]. To tune the ground state of
SrAg₄As₂, we applied external pressure

Figure 4: (a) The color plot of angle-dependent FFT of ρ_(xxxx) with the
rotation geometry shown in the inset. (b) The band structure calculated
from first-principles calculations with density-functional theory (DFT)
using the crystal structure at 300 K. (c) The density of states based on
the DFT calculation. (d) The Fermi surface based on the DFT calculation
using the crystal structure at 300 K.

Figure 5: (a) The temperature-dependent resistivity of SrAg₄As₂ under
various pressure. Inset: the criterion to determine the Δρ_(xx). (b) The
dRdT at various pressure. The criterion to determine T_(s) is shown. (c)
The temperature-pressure (T-P) phase diagram and the drop in resistivity
Δρ_(xx) across the transition as a function of pressure. The error bars
correspond to the standard deviation of an average of six calculations.

using silicone oil [viscosity 5 cSt (25 degC), Sigma-Aldrich] as the
pressure medium on a piece of SrAgAgAs2 whose residual resistivity ratio
(RRR) is ≈18 at ambient pressure. Figure 5(a) shows the evolution of
ρ(T) under the application of external pressure up to 2.13 GPa. No
superconductivity is observed. Figure 5(b) shows the first derivative of
the ρ(T) at various pressures. Below 0.89 GPa, the transition
temperature is slightly suppressed with pressure at a rate of 3.2 K/GPa
and then starts to increase linearly at a rate of ≈13 K/GPa up to 2.13
GPa, the highest pressure we applied. The T-P phase diagram is
summarized in Fig. 5(c) where the nonmagnetic transition temperature
T_(s) is determined by the criterion shown in Fig. 5(b). The T-P phase
diagram shows a v-shaped pressure dependence of the transition
temperature. It is worth noting that silicone oil solidifies at around 1
GPa at room temperature, above which the hydrostaticity is lost. This is
evidenced by the peak broadening above 0.89 GPa in Fig. 5(b). However,
we believe the enhancement of the T_(s) above 0.89 GPa is intrinsic
since the T_(s) increased by ∼20 K from 0.89 to 2.2 GPa and shows no
sign of slowing down. The drop in resistivity across the transition
Δρ_(xx) was determined using the criterion shown in the inset of Fig.
5(a). Δρ_(xx) first decreases and then increases with pressure, in a
similar manner as T_(s), as shown in Fig. 5(c). Both pressure-dependent
transition temperature and Δρ_(xx) that we observe here are reminiscent
of the evolution of the CDW transition in SmNiC2 under pressure [36,
37].

## IV Conclusion

In conclusion, SrAg₄As₂ shows electronic changes across the
low-temperature structural distortion around 110 K. In addition, a
high-temperature structural distortion around 715 K was evidenced by a
slope change in resistivity. Angle-dependent MR measurements show small
in-plane anisotropy but large out-of-plane anisotropy, suggesting a
two-dimensional electronic structure. Multiband transport is observed;
large nonsaturating MR was observed with high mobility, consistent with
the semimetallic nature revealed by the DFT calculation. MR shows
nontrivial field dependence, which may be due to charge fluctuation in
this highly disordered material. Both dHvA and SdH oscillation reveal
small Fermi pockets with light effective masses. An unusually long
quantum lifetime of 0.50(1) ps was determined for the Fermi pocket
associated with frequency F₂. However, the DFT calculation based on the
room-temperature crystal structure leads to Fermi pockets with much
larger size and heavier masses. We attribute this discrepancy to the
significant change in the Fermi surface topology caused by the
low-temperature structural distortion. The application of external
hydrostatic pressure first suppresses the transition below 0.89 GPa and
then enhances the phase transition linearly at a rate of ≈13 K/GPa up to
2.13 GPa without inducing superconductivity.

## Acknowledgments

Work at UCLA was supported by the U. S. Department of Energy (DOE),
Office of Science, Office of Basic Energy Sciences under Award No.
DE-SC0011978. A.I.C. acknowledges an EPSRC Career Acceleration
Fellowship (Grant No. EP/I004475/1). Part of this work was supported by
HFML-RU/FOM and LNCMI-CNRS, members of the European Magnetic Field
Laboratory (EMFL), and by EPSRC (UK) via its membership to the EMFL
(Grant No. EP/N01085X/1). Work at Rutgers was supported by the NSF DMREF
program under the award NSF DMREF Project No. DMR-1435918. N.N.
acknowledges useful discussion with G. Xin and Professor W. Xie.

## References

* [1] J. Dong, H. J. Zhang, G. Xu, Z. Li, G. Li, W. Z. Hu, D. Wu, G. F.
Chen, X. Dai, J. L. Luo, Z. Fang, and N. Wang, Europhys. Lett. **83**,
27006 (2008). * [2] C. de la Cruz, Q. Huang, J. W. Lynn, J. Li, W.
Ratcliff, II, J. L. Zarestky, H. A. Mook, G. F. Chen, J. L. Luo, N. L.
Wang, and P. Dai, Nature (London) **453**, 899 (2008). * [3] C. Song, J.
Park, J. Koo, K.-B. Lee, J. Y. Rhee, S. L. Budko, P. C. Canfield, B. N.
Harmon, and A. I. Goldman, Phys. Rev. B **68**, 035113 (2003). * [4] S.
L. Budko, T. A. Wiener, R. A. Ribeiro, P. C. Canfield, Y. Lee, T. Vogt,
and A. H. Lacerda, Phys. Rev. B **73**, 184111 (2006). * [5] Q. Si, R.
Yu, and E. Abrahams, Nat. Rev. Mater. **1**, 16017 (2016). * [6] X. Shi,
P. Richard, K. Wang, M. Liu, C. E. Matt, N. Xu, R. S. Dhaka, Z. Ristic,
T. Qian, Y.-F. Yang, C. Petrovic, M. Shi, and H. Ding, Phys. Rev. B
**93**, 081105(R) (2016). * [7] S. S. Stoyko, P. E. R. Blanchard, and A.
Mar, J. Solid State Chem. **194**, 113 (2012). * [8] R. Demchyna, J. P.
F. Jemetio, Yu. Prots, Th. Doert, L. G. Akselrod, W. Schnelle, Yu.
Kuzma, and Yu. Grin, Z. Anorg. Allg. Chem. **630**, 635 (2004). * [9] S.
S. Stoyko, M. Khatun, C. S. Mullen, and A. Mar, J. Solid State Chem.
**192**, 325 (2012). * [10] E. Mun, S. L. Bud’ko, M. S. Torikachvili,
and P. C. Canfield, Meas. Sci. Technol. **21**, 055104 (2010). * [11] Y.
Shen, R. S. Kumar, M. Pravica, and M. F. Nicol, Rev. Sci. Instrum.
**75**, 4450 (2004). * [12] D. D. Ragan, D. R. Clarke, and D. Schiferl,
Rev. Sci. Instrum. **67**, 494 (1996). * [13] P. Blaha, K. Schwarz, G.
Madsen, D. Kvasnicka, and J. Luitz, _wEN2k, An augmented Plane Wave +
Local Orbitals Program for Calculating Crystal Properties_ (Techn.
Universitat Wien, Austria, 2001). * [14] N. Ni, S. Nandi, A. Kreyssig,
A. I. Goldman, E. D. Mun, S. L. Bud’ko, and P. C. Canfield, Phys. Rev. B
**78**, 014523 (2008). * [15] M. N. Ali, J. Xiong, S. Flynn, J. Tao, Q.
D. Gibson, L. M. Schopop, T. Liang, N. Haldolaarachige, M. Hirschberger,
N. P. Ongand, and R. J. Cava, Nature (London) **514**, 205 (2014). *
[16] B. Shen, X. Deng, G. Kotliar, and N. Ni, Phys. Rev. B **93**,
195119 (2016). * [17] X. Huang, L. Zhao, Y. Long, P. Wang, D. Chen, Z.
Yang, H. Liang, M. Xue, H. Weng, Z. Fang, X. Dai, and G. Chen, Phys.
Rev. X **5**, 031023 (2015).

* [18] C. Zhang, S.-Y. Xu, I. Belopolski, Z. Yuan, Z. Lin, B. Tong, N.
Alidoust, C.-C. Lee, S.-M. Huang, H. Lin, M. Neupane, D. S. Sanchez, H.
Zheng, G. Bian, J. Wang, C. Zhang, T. Neupert, M. Z. Hasan, and S. Jia,
Nat. Commun. **7**, 10735 (2016). * [19] Y. L. Wang, L. R. Thoutam, Z.
L. Xiao, J. Hu, S. Das, Z. Q. Mao, J. Wei, R. Divan, A. Luican-Mayer, G.
W. Crabtree, and W. K. Kwok, Phys. Rev. B **92**, 180402(R) (2015). *
[20] A. Collaudin, B. Fauque, Y. Fuseya, W. Kang, and K. Behnia, Phys.
Rev. X **5**, 021022 (2015). * [21] T. Liang, Q. Gibson, M. N. Ali, M.
Liu, R. J. Cava, and N. P. Ong, Nat. Mater. **14**, 280 (2015). * [22]
E. Emmanouilidou, B. Shen, X. Deng, T.-R. Chang, A. Shi, G. Kotliar,
S.-Y. Xu, and N. Ni, Phys. Rev. B **95**, 245113 (2017). * [23] A. B.
Pippard, _Magnetoresistance in Metals_ (Cambridge University Press,
Cambridge, 1984). * [24] A. A. Burkov, M. D. Hook, and L. Balents, Phys.
Rev. B **84**, 235126 (2011). * [25] P. Goswami, J. H. Pixley, and S.
Das Sarma, Phys. Rev. B **92**, 075205 (2015). * [26] M. M. Parish and
P. B. Littlewood, Nature (London) **426**, 162 (2003). * [27] A.
Narayanan, M. D. Watson, S. F. Blake, N. Bruyant, L. Drigo, Y. L. Chen,
D. Prabhakaran, B. Yan, C. Felser, T. Kong, P. C. Canfield, and A. I.
Coldea, Phys. Rev. Lett. **114**, 117201 (2015). * [28] Z. Luo, J.
Maassen, Y. Deng, Y. Du, R. P. Garrelts, M. S. Lundstrom, P. D. Ye, and
X. Xu, Nat. Commun. **6**, 8572 (2014). * [29] D. Shoenberg, _Magnetic
Oscillations in Metals_ (Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, 1984). *
[30] See Supplemental Material at
http://link.aps.org/supplemental/10.1103/PhysRevB.98.235130 for a
comparison of the angular dependence of the SdH oscillation frequencies
between low- and high-field data. * [31] X. Yuan, C. Zhang, Y. Liu, A.
Narayan, C. Song, S. Shen, X. Sui, J. Xu, H. Yu, Z. An, J. Zhao, S.
Sanvito, H. Yan, and F. Xiu, Npg Asia Mater. **8**, e325 (2016). * [32]
N. Doiron-Leyraud, C. Proust, D. LeBoeuf, J. Levallois, J.-B.
Bonnemaison, R. Liang, D. A. Bonn, W. N. Hardy, and L. Taillefer, Nature
(London) **447**, 565 (2007). * [33] J. Chang, E. Blackburn, A. T.
Holmes, N. B. Christensen, J. Larsen, J. Mesot, R. Liang, D. A. Bonn, W.
N. Hardy, A. Watenphul, M. V. Zimmermann, E. M. Forgan, and S. M.
Hayden, Nat. Phys. **8**, 871 (2012). * [34] J. G. Analytis, R. D.
McDonald, J.-H. Chu, S. C. Riggs, A. F. Bangura, C. Kucharczyk, M.
Johannes, and I. R. Fisher, Phys. Rev. B **80**, 064507 (2009). * [35]
E. Morosan, H. W. Zandbergen, B. S. Dennis, J. W. G. Bos, Y. Onose, T.
Klimczuk, A. P. Ramirez, N. P. Ong, and R. J. Cava, Nat. Phys. **2**,
544 (2006). * [36] J. N. Kim, C. Lee, and J.-H. Shim, New J. Phys.
**15**, 123018 (2013). * [37] B. Woo, S. Seo, E. Park, J. H. Kim, D.
Jang, T. Park, H. Lee, F. Ronning, J. D. Thompson, V. A. Sidorov, and Y.
S. Kwon, Phys. Rev. B **87**, 125121 (2013).
