# In-plane optical response of Bi₂Sr₂CuO₆

A. A. Tsvetkov

Material Science Center, Laboratory of Solid State Physics, University
of Groningen, Nijenborgh 4, 9747 AG Groningen, The Netherlands and P. N.
Lebedev Physical Institute, Russian Academy of Sciences, Leninsky
Prospect 53, 117924 Moscow, Russia

J. Schutzmann

Material Science Center, Laboratory of Solid State Physics, University
of Groningen, Nijenborgh 4, 9747 AG Groningen, The Netherlands

J. I. Gorina

P. N. Lebedev Physical Institute, Russian Academy of Sciences, Leninsky
Prospect 53, 117924 Moscow, Russia

D. van der Marel

Material Science Center, Laboratory of Solid State Physics, University
of Groningen, Nijenborgh 4, 9747 AG Groningen, The Netherlands

27 August 1996; revised manuscript received 23 December 1996

###### Abstract

We report on infrared reflectivity measurements of the _ab_-plane
response of superconducting Bi₂Sr₂CuO₆ single crystals. The
frequency-dependent conductivity has a maximum near 500 cm⁻¹ at room
temperature, which shifts to lower frequency and merges with a Drude
peak below 100 K. We attribute the unusual behavior of the midinfrared
conductivity to low-frequency transitions between electronic bands of
mainly BiO character near the $\overline{M}$ point. The linear
temperature dependence of the low-frequency resistivity can be followed
down to approximately 40 K where it saturates. [S0163-1829(97)01522-1]

The relatively simple crystal structure of single-layer compounds offers
the possibility to study intrinsic properties of the CuO₂ plane. It is,
however, not clear to what extent the BiO layers contribute to the
optical conductivity and how the hole doping into the CuO₂-planes
proceeds. Previously, it was suggested from an optical study of
Tl₂Ba₂CaCu₂O₈ that the TlO layers exhibit nonconducting behavior.[1] The
situation for the Bi₂Sr₂CuO₆ system might be more complex. Band
structure calculations using the generalized potential augmented
plane-wave (LAPW) method by Singh and Pickett[2] show that weak
structural distortions shift the BiO(3)-derived bands below the Fermi
level.

Since the normal-state dynamics is of special interest for understanding
strongly correlated electron systems, the low T_(c) (< 10 K) of the
single-layer Bi₂Sr₂CuO₆ compound offers the opportunity to examine these
features well below the transition temperature of the related double-
and triple-layer systems. It is widely accepted that the in-plane
response of the cuprates is in the clean limit and the strong
midinfrared response is due to strong correlation effects in the
cuprates. In particular the marginal Fermi-liquid[3] (MFL) and
Luttinger-liquid[4] approaches along with the conventional strong
electron-phonon interaction[5] have been put forward to account for
these unusual properties. In these models the strong midinfrared (MIR)
conductivity is related to the linear frequency dependence of the
scattering rate of the quasiparticles in a single-band picture.
Therefore, the normal-state properties of the in-plane conductivity of
Bi₂Sr₂CuO₆ down to approximately 10 K should play a pivotal role in a
clear separation of the different excitations.

In this paper we report on the far-infrared (FIR) _ab_-plane
conductivity of a Bi₂Sr₂CuO₆ single crystal that was calculated via a
Kramers-Kronig analysis of the measured reflectivity data. Above 70 K
the conductivity increases with frequency until it reaches a maximum,
the frequency of which increases with increasing temperature. The
temperature dependence of the low-frequency conductivity is consistent
with the dc resistivity measured on crystals of the same batch. Based on
the f sum rule we argue that phonon contributions are too weak to
account for this maximum. We discuss a scenario where the unusual
temperature dependence is due to intraband and interband transitions
within and between electronic bands near E_(F) of CuO₂ and BiO
character.

Bi₂Sr₂CuO₆ single crystals were grown from a precursor dissolved in
liquid KCl.[6] Due to the formation of an enclosed cavity of a few cm³
within the melt, samples were obtained as free-standing crystalline
platelets of sizes up to 1 - 2 x 1 - 2 mm² and of thickness 5 - 20
μm.[7] A constant cavity temperature of 840-850 ^(∘)C and a constant
temperature gradient (2 - 3 K/cm) were kept within the melt in order to
provide permanent transport of the precursor to the growth zone, which
is important for a free growth of homogeneous crystals with a flat
mirror surface. Such samples require no mechanical or chemical polishing
prior to the infrared reflectivity measurements. X-ray measurements
revealed a perfect crystal structure with lattice parameters a = 5.36 A,
b = 5.37 A, and c = 24.64 A, which correspond to the orthorhombic
$\sqrt[2]{2}\times\sqrt[2]{2}$ distortion of the
body-centered-tetragonal structure. No traces of other phases could be
detected. The rocking curves have a full width at half maximum of
0.1^(∘),[7] which is the minimum value so far reported. Both from the
resistivity and the ac susceptibility we obtained the same values for
the superconducting transition temperature (_T_c = 7-8 K) and for the
transition width (D_T_c = 2 K). Unlike earlier reports where a linear
resistivity was observed down to the superconducting phase
transition,8,9 in the present crystals _r_(_T_) is only linear at high
temperatures but saturates below 40 K (Ref. 10) at a residual
resistivity with a sample to sample variation from 150 to 300 _m_U_O cm.

The reflectance measurements were made on the _a-b_ plane of Bi2Sr2CuO6
single crystals at normal incidence for temperatures from 300 K down to
10 K. We used two Fourier-transform spectrometers to cover the frequency
range from 50 cm-1 to 12 000 cm-1 and a flow cryostat for the
temperature variation. Absolute reflectivities were obtained by
referencing the reflected intensity of the sample to a Au mirror with
the same shape and size at each temperature. The systematic errors
introduced due to the sample-reference interchange fell within 0.5

The temperature dependence of the reflectivity is shown in Fig. 1.
Decreasing the temperature from 300 K down to 100 K the reflectivity
shows an increase up to midinfrared frequencies. From 100 K down to 40 K
the only increase in reflectivity occurs in the far-infrared range. The
reflectivity is temperature independent below 40 K. The near-infrared
reflectivity has a broad plasma minimum around 8700 cm-1. Weak
reproducible structure is observed at 181, 327, 427, and 508 cm-1. The
minima at 327 and 427 cm-1 coincide with the frequencies of the _c_-axis
LO phonon modes of Bi2Sr2CuO6.11 Under ideal conditions (large perfect
crystals with flat surfaces, perfectly _s_-polarized plane waves)
leakage of _c_-axis longitudinal optical phonons into the _ab_-plane
response can be excluded,12 but some weak and surface-dependent leakage
may occur if the experimental conditions are less than perfect. As the
minima at 181 and 508 cm-1 are not seen for Ẽ∥c, we attribute these to
in-plane optical phonons.

To calculate the infrared conductivity through a Kramers-Kronig
transformation we used a Hagen-Rubens extrapolation for the
low-frequency region. Extrapolation towards high frequencies (up to 320
000 cm-1) was done using the data of Terasaki _et al._13

The real part of the conductivity σ₁ is shown up to 8000 cm-1 in Fig. 2
and in more detail up to 2000 cm-1 in Fig. 3. The conductivity at low
temperatures is almost featureless and decreases monotonically with
frequency. When the temperature is increased to 100 K, a maximum in the
conductivity appears, which shifts to 500 cm-1 at room temperature. We
also notice from the way the conductivity curves cross

Figure 1: Reflectivity of a Bi2Sr2CuO6 single crystal at normal
incidence and with the electric-field vector parallel to the _ab_ plane
for T = 10, 100, 200, and 300 K. Inset: reflectivity on an expanded
scale for T = 10, 40, 70, 100, 200, and 300 K.

Figure 3: Optical conductivity σ(ω) on an expanded scale for 10, 100,
200, and 300 K. The arrows indicate the evolution of the maximum.

Figure 2: Optical conductivity σ(ω) as a function of frequency for the
same temperatures as in Fig. 1. Inset: dc resistivity obtained by
extrapolating the optical conductivity to zero frequency.

that at least part of the spectral weight removed from the low-frequency
side of the spectrum is recovered in the mid-infrared range. To
demonstrate this, we present in Fig. 4 the carrier density obtained from
integrating σ(ω) up to a cutoff frequency
[$n_{\rm eff}(\omega_{c}) = 2m\,\pi^{ - 1}e^{ - 2}J_{0}^{\omega_{c}}\sigma(\omega^{\prime})\,d\omega^{\prime}$].
The dc resistivity obtained by extrapolation of the optical conductivity
to zero frequency is presented in the insert of Fig. 2. This shows a
linear temperature dependence, which saturates below 40 K.

The fact that the single-layer compounds have almost the same volume per
unit cell as the double- and triple-layer compounds results in a low
free carrier concentration and a relatively low conductvity. Thus, one
might expect that the contribution of low-frequency excitations, in
particular optical phonons, can no longer be neglected. However, by
applying the f sum rule
[$\int_{0}^{\pi}8\sigma_{\rm ion}(\omega)\,d\omega = \sum_{j}4\pi n_{j}Z_{j}^{2}/m_{j}$]
to all ions with mass m_(j) and ionic charges Z_(j), we calculate an
average value of the conductivity due to phonons of only 18 Ω⁻¹ cm⁻¹ in
the range of 0-700 cm⁻¹, i.e., one order of magnitude smaller than the
rise in conductivity between 0 and 500 cm⁻¹ in Fig. 2. Hence the phonon
contributions are far too weak to be the main source of this rise in
conductivity.

The maximum near 500 cm⁻¹ (indicated with arrows in Fig. 3) shifts to a
lower frequency upon reducing the temperature, and is superimposed on a
steeply falling free-electron conductivity which increases as the
temperature is decreased. At 10 K the free-electron response is
prevalent in the low-frequency conductivity. In the remainder of this
paper we will indicate the depression of the conductivity below the
maximum as a pseudogap. In the present case there is no unambiguous–and
physically meaningful–way to decompose the conductivity in free-carrier
and bound-charge components. One of the reasons is, that in the
high-T_(c) cuprates also the intraband conductivity deviates
considerably from standard Drude behavior. In particular the high-T_(c)
cuprates, if optimally doped, are known to have a linear frequency
dependence of the scattering rate, as follows from inversion of the real
and imaginary parts of σ(ω) using the
expression[14]σ(ω) = ne²m⁻¹/{γ(ω) − i ωm^(⋆)(ω)/m}, where n is the
carrier density, m is the band mass, m^(⋆)(ω)/m is the effective mass
enhancement, and 1/γ(ω) is the effective relaxation time. A further
complication arises, if two or more electronic bands cross the Fermi
level. In this case, which we believe to be relevant for Bi₂Sr₂CuO₆, the
spectrum of σ(ω) contains interband transitions in addition to the
intraband components. The interband part has a complex line shape which
depends on the details of the band dispersion and the k-dependent
optical transition matrix elements. Obviously if the material has two or
more bands of electrons, at least one of which (the CuO₂ bands) has a
frequency-dependent scattering rate, it is no longer possible to make a
meaningful separation in several components. At low temperatures, where
the CuO₂ channel has a reduced scattering rate, σ(ω) is dominated by the
CuO₂ channel at least at the low frequencies. In this region one might
hope to extract the frequency-dependent scattering rate of the CuO₂
carriers, at least up to a frequency where other contributions to σ(ω)
become significant. For this reason we display in the inset of Fig. 4
the frequency-dependent scattering rate only for the lowest temperature.
We notice that the linear behavior of γ(ω), which is rather typical for
all high-T_(c) cuprates, exists only up to 0.1 eV in this case. In view
of the possibility of low-energy interband transitions in this compound,
even at 10 K γ(ω) extracted from optical data is probably no longer
meaningful for ℏω > 0.1 eV. Our observations support the conclusion by
Romero _et al._, based on an analysis of infrared transmission data,
that the linear frequency dependence of γ(ω) is limited to the energy
range below 0.1 eV.[15] The nonlinear temperature dependence of the
resistivity in the crystals used for this study is also inconsistent
with MFL behavior at the lowest temperatures.

Transmission experiments on free-standing nonsuperconducting single
crystals of Bi₂Sr₂CuO₆ performed by Romero _et al._[15] also reveal a
singularity in the FIR conductivity, although the effect is less
pronounced. The room-temperature conductivity shows a clear change of
slope around 500 cm⁻¹, and the frequency-dependent effective mass
m^(⋆)(ω) has a minimum at this frequency. While only a trace of the
pseudogap is observed in nonsuperconducting single crystals,[15] the
effective number of carriers remains the same. A maximum in the optical
conductivity was also observed in the related single-layer compound
Tl₂Ba₂CuO₆.[16] although a substantially larger spectral weight was
involved.

A possible candidate for the observed pseudogap is the additional
electronic degree of freedom introduced by having both hole-doped CuO₂
and electron-doped BiO bands. Although an interpretation in terms of
direct transitions between these bands is probably too simple due to the
strong electron-electron correlations in the Cu-O bands, a pseudogap may
nevertheless exist, not unlike the situation encountered in Kondo
insulators.[17] The LAPW band calculations of Singh and Pickett[2] give
two types of bands: For a vanishing orthorhombic distortion there is a
large Cu-O-derived barrel section centered at X and its
$\sqrt{2} \times \sqrt{2}$-folded counterpart centered around Γ. In
addition there are two Bi-O-derived electron pockets with their
Brillouin-zone-folded

Figure 4: Effective number of carriers per unit of CuO₂ calculated from
σ(ω) using the partial f sum rule. Inset: frequency-dependent scattering
rate [γ(ω)] and effective mass enhancement [m^(⋆)(ω)/m] at 10 K.

counterparts, all of them centered at M⃗. As suggested by Singh and
Pickett,[2] a weak structural change from tetragonal to orthorhombic
strongly affects the structure of the electronic bands. The bands are
shifted up to 400 meV for Bi displacements of 0.14 A and 0.41 A for O.
As a result five bands were calculated for k close to the saddle point
(M⃗), all within a range of 200 meV around E_(F). Only two of the Bi-O
pockets (one of them barely) cross E_(F) when the orthorhombic
distortions are taken into account. Because the band structure is
strongly affected by modulations of the lattice, it can also have an
appreciable temperature dependence. Photoemission studies have revealed
a single occupied band near E_(F) close to the M⃗ point, which was
originally indicated as a possible BiO-derived band[18] but was
identified as a CuO₂ band in a later publication.[19] The absence of a
clear BiO-derived band in photoemission may, however, result from a
disorder-induced smearing of the k dispersion in the BiO layers, or from
the small photoelectron cross section for Bi and O states compared to
the Cu 3 d cross section. The main "’generalized Drude’ component in our
data then originates from the CuO barrels, with a linearly
frequency-dependent decay rate typical for optimally doped cuprates. The
pseudo gap at high temperatures would be due to transitions between the
closely spaced bands which cross E_(F) near M⃗. In this scenario the
disappearance of the pseudogap at low temperatures can reflect a gradual
change of atomic coordinates upon cooling, with a corresponding change
of the interband separation. This structural modulation can easily
result in a redistribution of carriers between BiO and CuO₂ bands and
the disappearance of the pseudogap. Interestingly, large lattice
distortions are generally present in films, which show a higher T_(c)
and a more pronounced pseudogap.[20]

We have presented experimental data on the in-plane infrared response of
superconducting Bi2201 single crystals for temperatures from 10 K to 300
K. The optical conductivity shows a pseudogap feature that shifts with
temperature. The optical conductivity is at least one order of magnitude
too large to be compatible with a purely phononic interpretation of this
feature. This observation indicates the presence of two coupled
conducting channels and may provide important clues regarding the fact
that T_(c) in the single-layer Bi cuprate material is much lower than in
other nearly stoichiometric compounds. We discuss the possibility that
the pseudogap is related to electronic transitions between bands near
the M⃗ point, which are strongly coupled to the orthorhombic lattice
distortion.

We gratefully acknowledge many useful comments from W. N. Hardy. This
investigation was supported by the program for Russian-Dutch Cooperation
under Project No. 047003033 of the Nederlandse Organisatie voor
Wetenschappelijk Onderzoek, the Russian Scientific Technical Program
"’High Temperature Superconductivity" (A.A.T., J.I.G., and G.A.K.), and
the program Human Capital and Mobility under Contract No.
ERBCHBICT941820 (J.S.).

## References

* [1] G. Jehl _et al._, Europhys. Lett. **17**, 255 (1992). * [2] D. J.
Singh and W. E. Pickett, Phys. Rev. B **51**, 3128 (1995). * [3] C. M.
Varma _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **26**, 1996 (1989). * [4] P. W.
Anderson, Phys. Rev. Lett. **67**, 2092 (1991). * [5] S. V. Snulga _et
al._, Physica C **178**, 226 (1991). * [6] J. I. Gorina _et al._, Solid
State Commun. **91**, 615 (1994). * [7] V. P. Matrovitsky _et al._,
Solid State Commun. **96**, 893 (1995). * [8] S. Martin _et al._, Phys.
Rev. B **41**, 846 (1990). * [9] X. H. Hou _et al._, Phys. Rev. B
**50**, 496 (1994). * [10] S. I. Vedeneev _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **51**,
16 380 (1995). * [11] A. A. Tsvetkov, J. Schutzmann, and D. van der
Marel (unpublished). * [12] D. van der Marel _et al._, Phys Rev. Lett.
**71**, 2676 (1993). * [13] I. Terasaki _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **41**,
865 (1990). * [14] J. W. Allen and J. C. Mikkelsen, Phys. Rev. B **15**,
2952 (1977). * [15] D. B. Romero _et al._, Solid State Commun. **82**,
183 (1992). * [16] A. V. Puchkov _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **51**, 3312
(1995). * [17] G. Aeppli and Z. Fisk, Comments Condens. Matter Phys.
**16**, 155 (1992). * [18] E. R. Ratner _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **48**,
10 482 (1993). * [19] D. M. King _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **73**, 3298
(1994). * [20] P. Calvani _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **53**, 2756 (1996).
