# Crystal growth and anisotropic resistivity of
Bi₂Sr_(2 − x)La_(x)CuO_(y)

N. L. Wang,* B. Buschinger, C. Geibel, and F. Steglich

Institut fur Festkorperphysik, Technische Hochschule Darmstadt,
Hochshulstrasse 8, D-64289 Darmstadt, Germany

Received 17 April 1996

###### Abstract

A number of Bi₂Sr_(2 − x)La_(x)CuO_(y) crystals with different doping
levels in the phase diagram have been grown and characterized by
x-ray-diffraction measurements. The anisotropic resistivity was measured
using a generalization of the Montgomery method and was found to change
in a systematic way. Our analysis indicates that for all the samples the
in-plane transport is on the metallic side of the Ioffe-Regel criterion,
but the out-of-plane transport is deeply on the insulating side of the
Mott limit. The temperature dependence of _c_-axis resistivity ρ_(c)(T)
can be well understood from the incoherent hopping model proposed by
Levin and co-workers. The evolution of ρ_(c)(T) with reduction in doping
level is related to the reducing of both the impurity- and
boson-assisted hopping processes. [S0163-1829(96)04734-0]

## 1 Introduction

The understanding of high-temperature superconductivity requires careful
study and understanding of the doping and temperature dependences of the
normal-state properties of these materials. Among these properties, the
anisotropic transport is of particular interest since it posed
formidable challenge to theory.

To address the properties in the normal state, it is of advantage to
investigate the cuprate superconductors with low critical temperatures.
In this respect, the single-layer Bi₂Sr₂CuO_(y) (Bi2201) materials
provide the best candidate. Earlier studies [1, 2] have established that
the in-plane resistivity is linear in T over the temperature range of
10-700 K, while the out-of-plane resistivity ρ_(c)(T) is nonmetallic at
low temperature. What is lacking so far is a systematic study of how the
anisotropic resistivity evolves as a function of doping level. Our
recent study revealed some correlation between the temperature variation
of _c_-axis resistivity ρ_(c)(T) and the in-plane resistivity ρ_(ab)(T)
in Bi₂Sr₂CuO_(y) crystals with different Bi/Sr ratios and doped with Pb.
[3] However, it is not straightforward to compare the doping levels in
these samples.

From the study of polycrystalline samples, it has been established that
the entire phase diagram from the underdoped to the overdoped region can
be achieved in the Lab-substituted Bi2201 system. [4, 5] Therefore,
studies of the anisotropic transport properties in La-doped crystals are
very promising to gain insight into the behavior with a change of doping
level. Recently, we have grown a series of La-doped Bi₂Sr₂CuO_(y)
crystals. In this work we present the anisotropic resistivities measured
by a generalization of the Montgomery method. Like the ceramic samples,
the single crystals can cover the range from slightly underdoping to
overdoping levels. The _c_-axis resistivity changes in a systematic way.
A quantitative analysis suggests that the temperature dependence of
_c_-axis resistivity ρ_(c)(T) can be well understood from the incoherent
hopping proposed by Levin and co-workers. [6, 7] The evolution of
ρ_(c)(T) with reduction in doping level is related to the reducing of
both the impurity- and boson-assisted hopping processes.

## 2 Crystal growth and characterization

La-doped Bi₂Sr₂CuO_(y) crystals were grown from a copper-oxide-rich melt
in Al₂O₃ crucibles. We chose Bi₂Sr_(2 − x)La_(x)Cu₂O_(y) with x = 0,
0.025, 0.05, 0.1, 0.2, and 0.3 as the nominal compositions in the melt.
The mixture of the starting materials of Bi₂O₃, SrCO₃, La₂O₃, and CuO
was ground and fired at 790-820 ^(∘)C for 12 h 2 or 3 times. The
products were melted at 1000-1060 ^(∘)C (depending on the La
concentration) for 3 h, then cooled slowly to 850-880 ^(∘)C at a rage of
(1-2) ^(∘)C/h, followed by a furnace cooling to room temperature. The
crystal platelets were removed mechanically after breaking the
crucibles. The sizes of the crystals become generally smaller with the
increase of La concentration. But even for the x = 0.3 compound, we can
still obtain crystals with an area of 2 mm × 1 mm.

X-ray-diffraction (XRD) measurements were performed in order to check
for the possible presence of secondary phases and to demonstrate the
effect of La doping on the _c_-axis lattice parameter. It is found that
all crystals, grown preferentially along the _ab_ plane, were of the
proper 2201 phase. There is no indication of a secondary phase. As
examples, Fig. 1 shows the (0,0,1) XRD patterns for three samples with x
= 0, 0.05, and 0.2. We find that the (0,0,1) peaks shift towards higher
2 θ angles with the increase of La concentration, indicating the
decrease of the _c_-axis lattice parameters. The inset of this figure
illustrates the change of lattice parameter c as a function of nominal
La concentration. The trend of _c_-axis parameter variation is
consistent with the polycrystalline sample study. [4, 5] However, by
comparing the _c_-axis lattice parameters with these results, we can
conclude that the actual La contents of these crystals are larger than
the nominal La concentrations. For example, the actual La content is
around 0.3 for nominal x = 0.05, while 0.5-0.6 for x = 0.3. As
demonstrated in Refs. [4] and [5], these La-substituted Bi2201 materials
cover the entire region from underdoping to overdoping with the maximum
T_(c) corresponding to La=0.25-0.4. We shall see below that our
crystals, consistent with these reports, also pass at T_(c) maximum with
the increase of La concentration. However, we refrained from determining
directly the actual La content in our crystals.

## III Anisotropic resistivity

The anisotropic resistivity was measured using a generalization of the
Montgomery method.8 The typical dimensions of crystals used to determine
the resistivity were around 1 mm × 0.6 mm × 6 μm with the shortest one
along the c axis. The thickness of the crystal was determined by an
Olympus BH2-UMA optical microscope. The silver-paint contacts were put
on the ab plane. After firing the sample in air for 1 h at 500 degC,the
contact resistance could be reduced to about 1-3 Ω. The contact
configuration is shown in Fig. 2. Instead of the point contact in the
original Montgomery method, we extended the contacts along the edges of
samples to minimize the distortion effect of finite contact size along
the c axis. The resistances, R₁ and R₂, with the current nominally
parallel and normal to the ab plane, respectively, were measured by an
ac (f = 43 Hz) method using a lock-in amplifier. The resistivity
components, ρ_(ab)(T) and ρ_(c)(T), were then calculated from the ratio
of R₂/R₁ in the thin sample limit of the Montgomery technique.

We shall first demonstrate that the temperature behavior of c-axis
resistivity ρ_(c)(T) can be very different from the measured resistance
R₂. As examples, Fig. 3 shows the measured resistances, R₁ and R₂, for
two samples with different nominal La concentrations. The main panel is
a sample with x = 0.05. It can be seen that R₂ is nonmetallic
(dR₂/dT  <  0) in the whole measured temperature range. However, after
transforming to resistivity using the Montgomery technique, ρ_(c)(T)
exhibits a mixed behavior [dρ_(c)(T)/dT  <  0 at low T but
dρ_(c)(T)/dT  >  0 at high T] (see Fig. 5). The inset of Fig. 3 is
another sample with x = 0.30. R₂ increases by two orders of magnitude as
temperature drops from 290 to 10 K, while the transformed resistivity
ρ_(c)(T) only increases by a factor of 6 in the same temperature range
(see Fig. 5). Therefore, the direct four-leads method for determining
the c-axis resistivity is not accurate enough. An analysis for the
reasons of different temperature behaviors between R₂ and ρ_(c)(T) can
be found in Ref. [9].

The anisotropic resistivities data measured by this method on more
samples are shown in Figs. 4 and 5. Before comparing the temperature
behaviors, we pay attention to the change of superconducting transition
temperatures in these

Figure 3: The measured resistances R₁ and R₂ for two La-doped samples.
The main panel is a sample with nominal x = 0.05. The inset is a sample
with x = 0.30.

Figure 2: The contact configuration for measuring anisotropic
resistivity. R₁ = V₂₄/I₁₃, R₂ = V₃₄/I₁₂.

La-doped crystals. Our undoped Bi2201 crystals generally show
superconducting transitions at temperatures between 4 and 7 K (not shown
in this figure). T_(c) increases with the addition of La. T_(c) is 11 K
at the nominal La concentration x = 0.025, and reaches 18 K when
x = 0.05. However, as x changes from 0.05 to 0.2, we did not observe
much change in T_(c). This is consistent with the report in
polycrystalline samples in which T_(c) keeps nearly constant when
0.25<x <0.5. T_(c) changes back to 10 K when x = 0.3, suggesting that
this sample has already passed the maximum T_(c) . The variation of
superconducting transition temperatures with the increase of La
concentration indicates that these crystals have covered the range from
overdoping to slightly underdoping in the phase diagram as a result of
hole filling due to the substitution of La³⁺ for Sr²⁺. This argument is
supported by the variation of temperature dependences of the anisotropic
resistivities. It should be mentioned that the hole filling effect does
not take place in a simple way. As the substitution of La³⁺ for Sr²⁺
normally results in incorporation of additional O ions,[4] this will
partly compensate the charge difference. We add a lead-doped sample with
nominal composition of Bi_(2 − x)Pb_(x)Sr₂Cu₂O_(y) (x = 0.05) to this
series. The description of the growth of this crystal can be found in
Ref. [3]. A previous study[10] has shown that doped lead has the valence
state 2+ rather than 4+ in these 2201 materials. Thus the substitution
of Pb²⁺ for Bi³⁺ will result in the increase of carrier concentration.
Our measurements indeed show that the Pb-doped sample has the least
resistivity and anisotropic ratio.

The in-plane resistivities ρ_(ab)(T) are shown in Fig. 4. The La
concentration x = 0.05 sample shows the highest T_(c) (∼ 18 K) with a
linear-T dependence in the normal state. This indicates that the sample
is nearly optimally doped. The x = 0.025 sample and the Pb-doped samples
have lower T_(c) values and magnitudes of resistivity, and exhibit a
superlinear T dependence. This superlinear T-dependent ρ_(ab)(T) is a
feature of overdoped samples and has been observed in various cuprate
systems, for example, in Tl2201 (Ref. [11]) and La214 (Ref. [12])
materials. In contrast, the samples with higher La concentrations, like
x = 0.2 and x = 0.3, have

Figure 4: The in-plane resistivity ρ_(ab)(T) of the La-doped Bi2201
crystals and a lead-doped one.

Figure 5: The out-of-plane resistivity ρ_(c)(T) for the same crystals as
in Fig. 4. The solid curves are fits of ρ_(c)(T) data to
ρ_(c) = a₀ + aT + 1/(c + bT). The ρ_(c) vs T curve for the same
lead-doped crystal is replotted in the inset to show more clearly the
temperature behavior.

higher resistivity. At low T, ρ_(ab)(T) becomes flat or even shows an
upturn. This is in accord with the above conclusion that they are
already in the slightly underdoped region. The more obvious upturn in
ρ_(ab)(T) at low T for the x = 0.2 sample may imply that the disorder in
this sample is stronger than in the x = 0.3 sample.

The out-of-plane resistivities of the above samples are shown in Fig. 5.
A prominent feature is that ρ_(c)(T) shows a mixed temperature
dependence, i.e., ρ_(c)(T) has a positive slope (dρ_(c)/dT   > 0) at
high T but a negative slope (dρ_(c)/dT   < 0) at low T. In between,
ρ_(c)(T) has a minimum. This feature is shown rather clearly for a
Pb-doped sample by replotting the ρ_(c) vs T curve in the inset of this
figure. A systematic evolution of ρ_(c)(T) with the reduction of doping
level in these samples is observed. That is, the magnitude of the
resistivity increases rapidly, and the temperature $T_{\rm min}$
corresponding to the minimum ρ_(c) shifts towards higher temperature.
$T_{\rm min}$ is about 75 K for the Pb-doped sample, 100 K for the La
x = 0.025 sample, 120 K for x = 0.05, 175 K for x = 0.2, respectively.
For the x = 0.3 sample, $T_{\rm min}\!\!>\!$300 K.

Figure 6 shows the temperature dependence of the anisotropy ratio
ρ_(c)/ρ_(ab) for those samples. The following features are worth
mentioning. First, the anisotropy ratio is rather large. All samples
exceed 10⁴. Second, ρ_(c)/ρ_(ab) depends on T for all the samples. This
implies that the mechanisms governing the transports along and
perpendicular to the CuO plane are different. Third, the anisotropy
ratio increases further as the doping level decreases. For the La
x = 0.30 sample, the anisotropy ratio has nearly reached 2.5×10⁵ at low
T.

The remarkable difference between the temperature dependence of ρ_(ab)
and ρ_(c) is still one of the least understood properties. We shall
first demonstrate that the conventional Bloch-Boltzmann theory cannot
explain such difference. Within the framework of Boltzmann transport,
the expression for anisotropic resistivities can be derived by solving
the linear Boltzmann equation in the relaxation-time (τ) approximation

$$e\,{\bf E}\cdot{\bf v}({\bf k})\,\partial f_{0}/\partial e=(f-f_{0})/\tau,$$
(1)

and by calculating the electric current density

$${\bf J}\!=\!2e\int\,{\bf v}({\bf k})(f\!-\!f_{0})d^{3}k/(2\,\pi)^{3}.$$
(2)

Here f₀ is the equilibrium Fermi distribution function, (f − f₀) the
deviation from the distribution function due to the electric field
${\bf E}$ and the scattering which transfers carriers from one band
state to the others, and
${\bf v}({\bf k})\!=\!\hbar^{-1}\partial e({\bf k})/\partial{\bf k}$ is
the group velocity. To address the conductivity along the c axis, the
energy dispersion relationship must include the dispersion along the c
axis. The simplest case is to assume the dispersion of
$e({\bf k})\!=\!(\hbar k_{ab})^{2}/(2m_{ab}^{\#})+(\hbar k_{c})^{2}/(2m_{c}^{\#})$,
then it is easy to obtain the following Drude anisotropic resistivities:

ρ_(ab) = m_(ab)^(#)/ne²τ
(3)

and

ρ_(c) = m_(c)^(#)/ne²τ,
(4)

where n is the density of charge carriers. Since both ρ_(ab) and ρ_(c)
are inversely proportional to τ, they must have the same T dependence.
Of course, the expression for ρ_(ab) and ρ_(c) can be different if a
different band energy dispersion relationship is assumed. However, it
does not appear possible to obtain simultaneously a nonmetallic
conduction along the c axis and a metallic one within the plane within
this theory. For this reason, it does not seem to be reasonable to
ascribe the large anisotropic ratio ρ_(c)/ρ_(ab) to the anisotropic
effective masses along different directions.

In fact, the very large anisotropic ratio suggests that the energy
dispersion along the c axis is negligible. Suppose that the Fermi
surface is cylindrically shaped, we can use the above Drude in-plane
equation to roughly estimate the in-plane transport parameters (k_(F)l).
For this purpose, we change Eq. (3) into another form. For a
quasi-two-dimensional electron system with cylinder-shaped Fermi
surface, the carrier density n = (k_(F)²/2π)/d_(c), where k_(F) is the
Fermi wave vector, d_(c) = c/2 is the periodic length in the c axis.
Noticing 1/τ = v/l, m_(ab)^(#)v = ℏk_(F), then Eq. (3) can be written as

ρ_(ab) = (h/e²)(c/2)/k_(F)l.
(5)

From this equation, the in-plane transport parameter k_(F)l at 25 K is
estimated to be 26 for the Pb-doped sample, 17 for the x = 0.05 La-doped
sample, and 7 for the x = 0.30 La-doped sample (which has the highest
magnitude of resistivity in this series), respectively. The large
metallic parameters k_(F)l place these samples into the metallic side of
the Ioffe-Regel criterion (k_(F)l > 1) for the in-plane transport. In
contrast to this, we find that the out-of-plane conductivity is far
beyond the Mott minimum conductivity. In terms of the theories developed
by Mott, the minimum conductivity is given by [13]

$$\sigma_{\rm min}\!=\!0.03e^{2}/(\hbar\,d_{c}),$$
(6)

the value of the constant could be somewhat different depending on the
Anderson localization criterion. Inserting the d_(c) value into this
equation, we get $\sigma_{\rm min}\sim\!58$ (Ω cm)⁻¹. Therefore, the
ρ_(c) data for all the samples are deeply on the insulating side of the
Mott limit. The above analysis indi

Figure 6: The anisotropy ratios ρ_(c)/ρ_(ab) vs T for the same crystals
as in Fig. 4.

cates definitely that the conduction along the c axis is not a coherent
band transport, though it is possible within the _ab_ plane.

There have been several theoretical models aiming to elucidate the
temperature dependence of _c_-axis resistivity r_(c)(_T_). For example,
Kumar and Jayannavar[14] proposed a model in which they took the
in-plane electron dynamics as bandlike, characterized by a Boltzmann
mean free lifetime t, i.e., the in-plane resistivity had the usual Drude
relation (3), but the _c_-axis transport as an interplanar tunneling
between neighboring layers which were blocked by intraplanar inelastic
scattering. This model gives the same temperature dependence for the
_c_-axis resistivity as that for the in-plane resistivity, and is,
therefore, in contrast to our experimental results. The famous
"’confinement’ theory proposed by Anderson,[15] asserting that each CuO2
layer is a spin-charge-separated Luttinger liquid, gives a
semiconducting T dependence of _c_-axis resistivity with
r_(c)(_T_) 1/_T_. This theory can qualitatively explain the nonmetallic
r_(c)(_T_) behavior, but unfortunately, cannot be quantitatively fit
well to our data. In the following, we shall illustrate that our
r_(c)(_T_) data can be well explained from the incoherent transport
model proposed by Levin and co-workers.[6, 7] According to this model,
the _c_-axis conductivity is contributed from three hopping processes:
direct interlayer quasiparticle hopping which is due to the wave
function overlap, hopping assisted through static disorder (impurity),
and hopping assisted through inelastic boson-mediated (e.g.,
phonon-mediated) scattering. The conductivity expressions for these
processes are summarized as follows:

$$\sigma_{c}^{\rm direct} = \sigma_{0}N_{0}t_{\perp}^{2}(\tau_{ab}/\pi\hbar) = 1/(b^{\prime}T + c^{\prime}),$$

$$\sigma_{c}^{\rm imp} = \sigma_{0}N_{0}{}^{2} \ll |V_{k - k^{\prime}}|^{2} >_{k} >_{k} = c,$$

$$\sigma_{c}^{\rm ind} = \sigma_{0}N_{0}{}^{2} \ll |g_{k - k^{\prime}}|^{2} >_{k} >_{k^{\prime}}I(T) = bI(T),$$

and

$$\sigma_{c} = \sigma_{c}^{\rm direct} + \sigma_{c}^{\rm imp} + \sigma_{c}^{\rm ind} = bI(T) + c + 1/(b^{\prime}T + c^{\prime}).$$

Here, b, c, _b’_, and _c’_ are constant, _I_(_T_) is the spectrum
function of the boson assisting the interlayer hopping. To capture the
features of the spectrum function, Rojo and Levin[6] took the
Bloch-Gruneisen form for _I_(_T_). At high T (> Θ/5, Θ is the Debye
temperature), _I_(_T_)_ T. While Radtke and Levin[7] used the Einstein
spectrum for _I_(_T_), i.e., _I_(_T_)_ _(_T_)_/_T_/sinh2(_T_0/_T_). In
fact, if T0/_T_ 1, this Einstein spectrum is also reduced to _I_(_T_)_
T. As the in-plane resistivity could be proportional to T down to the
superconducting transition temperature, we shall simply use _I_(_T_)_ T
in our fitting. For the extremely anisotropic materials, like Bi
cuprates, the direct interlayer hopping can be ignored.[16] It is
possible for any measurement to pick up an in-plane component of the
resistivity tensor. This could be caused by the short circuits due to
the crystal imperfections or external misalignment of contacts. In fact,
the randomly distributed defects of single crystals have been observed
in many published papers.[17] So we add a linear term (_a_0+_aT_) to the
_c_-axis resistivity. We use the following equation to fit our
resistivity data:

ρ_(c) = a₀ + aT + 1/(c + bT).

The last term in the equation is the intrinsic resistivity along the c
axis and corresponds to the impurity- and boson-assisted hopping
processes. As shown in Fig. 5, this equation fits the data fairly well
in a wide range of temperature. The fitting parameters are listed in
Table I. There is little change in the parameter a in this series of
samples. However, both the parameters c and b decrease systematically
with the reduction of doping level. This implies that the evolution of
the _c_-axis resistivity is caused by the further reducing of both the
impurity- and boson-assisted hopping processes. Therefore, our
experimental data can be well understood within this incoherent model.

In summary, we have grown successfully La-doped Bi2201 crystals with
different doping levels in the phase diagram. The anisotropic
resistivity was measured using a generalization of the Montgomery method
and found to change in a systematic way. Our analysis indicates that for
all the samples, the in-plane transport is on the metallic side of the
Ioffe-Regel criterion, but the out-of-plane transport is deeply on the
insulating side of the Mott limit. The temperature dependence of
_c_-axis resistivity r_(c)(_T_) can be well understood from the
incoherent hopping model proposed by Levin and co-workers. The evolution
of r_(c)(_T_) with reduction in doping level is caused by the reducing
of both the impurity- and boson-assisted hopping processes.

## Acknowledgments

We have benefited from discussions with Dr. Y. Ando and Dr. R. J.
Radtke. The financial support from Alexander von Humboldt Foundation is
greatly acknowledged.

## References

* [1] S. Martin, A. T. Fiory, R. M. Fleming, L. F. Schneemeyer, and J.
V. Waszczak, Phys. Rev. B **41**, 846 (1990). * [2] X. H. Hou, W. J.
Zhu, J. Q. Li, J. W. Li, J. W. Xiong, F. Wu, Y. Z. Hang, and Z. X. Zhao,
Phys. Rev. B **50**, 496 (1994). * [3] N. L. Wang, C. Geibel, and F.
Steglich, Physica C **260**, 305 (1996). * [4] W. Bauhofer, Hj.
Mattausch, R. K. Kremer, P. Murugaraj, and A. Simon, Phys. Rev. B
**39**, 7244 (1989). * [5] N. R. Khasanova and E. V. Antipov, Physica C
**246**, 241 (1995).

  -------------------- ------- ------ -------- -------------
        Samples           a      a0      c           b
    Pb-doped (0.05)     0.008   0.15    0.34    1.14 × 10−2
   La-doped x = 0.025   0.012   1.27    0.10    3.72 × 10−3
        x = 0.05        0.013   2.94    0.07    2.43 × 10−3
        x = 0.20        0.023   0.1    0.014    7.90 × 10−4
        x = 0.30          0      0     0.0069   2.05 × 10−4
  -------------------- ------- ------ -------- -------------

Table 1: The fit parameters a0, a, b, and c for different samples in
Fig. 5.

* [6] A. G. Rojo and K. Levin, Phys. Rev. B **48**, 16 861 (1993). * [7]
R. J. Radtke and K. Levin, Physica C **250**, 282 (1995). * [8] H. C.
Montgomery, J. Appl. Phys. **42**, 2971 (1971), and accompanying paper
by B. F. Logan, S. O. Rice, and R. F. Wick, _ibid._**42**, 2975
(1971). * [9] S. J. Hagen, T. W. Jing, Z. Z. Wang, J. Horvath, and N. P.
Ong, Phys. Rev. B **37**, 7928 (1988). * [10] C. C. Torardi, E. M.
McCarron, P. L. Gai, J. P. Parise, J. Ghoroghchian, D. B. Kang, M.-H.
Whangbo, and J. C. Barry, Physica C **176**, 347 (1991). * [11] Y. Kubo,
Y. Shimakawa, T. Manako, and H. Igarashi, Phys. Rev. B **43**, 7875
(1991). * [12] H. Takagi, B. Batlogg, H. L. Kao, J. Kwo, R. J. Cava, J.
J. Krajewski, and W. F. Peck, Jr., Phys. Rev. Lett. **69**, 2975
(1992). * [13] See, for example, N. F. Mott, in _The Metallic and
Nonmetallic States of Matter_, edited by P. P. Edwards and C. N. R. Rao
(Taylor & Francis, London, 1985), p. 1. * [14] N. Kumar and A. M.
Jayannavar, Phys. Rev. B **45**, 5001 (1992). * [15] P. W. Anderson and
Z. Zou, Phys. Rev. Lett. **60**, 132 (1988); P. W. Anderson, Science
**256**, 1526 (1992). * [16] R. J. Radtke, V. N. Kostur, and K. Levin,
Phys. Rev. B **53**, 522 (1996). * [17] See, for example, R. Jin, H. R.
Ott, and D. P. Grindatto, Physica C **250**, 395 (1995).
