Full-gap superconductivity in noncentrosymmetric Re₆Zr, Re₂₇Zr₅, and
Re₂₄Zr₅

K. Matano,¹ R. Yatagai,¹ S. Maeda,¹ and Guo-qing Zheng^(1, 2)

¹Department of Physics, Okayama University, Okayama 700-8530, Japan

²Institute of Physics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, and Beijing National
Laboratory for Condensed Matter Physics, Beijing 100190, China

Received 12 April 2016; revised manuscript received 25 November 2016;
published 21 December 2016

###### Abstract

The noncentrosymmetric superconductor Re₆Zr has attracted much interest
for its possible unconventional superconducting state with broken
time-reversal symmetry. Here we report ^(185/187)Re nuclear quadrupole
resonance measurements on Re₆Zr (T_(c) = 6.72 K) and the isostructural
compounds Re₂₇Zr₅ (T_(c) = 6.53 K) and Re₆₄Zr₅ (T_(c) = 5.00 K). The
nuclear spin-lattice relaxation rate 1/T₁ shows a coherence peak below
T_(c) and decreases exponentially at low temperatures in all three
samples. The superconducting gap Δ derived from the 1/T₁ data is
2Δ = 3.58k_(B)T_(c), 3.55k_(B)T_(c), and 3.51k_(B)T_(c) for Re₆Zr,
Re₂₇Zr₅, and Re₂₄Zr₅, respectively, which is close to the value of
3.53k_(B)T_(c) expected for weak-coupling superconductivity. These data
suggest conventional s-wave superconductivity with a fully opened gap in
this series of compounds.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.94.214513

## I Introduction

Superconductors with broken symmetries, such as broken time-reversal
symmetry [1] or broken spin-rotation symmetry [2], have attracted great
attention. In particular, the role of the crystal structure in the
emergence of unconventional superconducting states has been studied
extensively in recent years.

In superconductors with an inversion center in the crystal structure,
either an even-parity spin-singlet or an odd-parity spin-triplet
superconducting state is realized. However, in noncentrosymmetric
superconductors, a parity-mixed superconducting state is allowed and an
antisymmetric spin-orbit coupling (ASOC) interaction is induced [3, 4,
5]. The parity-mixing extent is determined by the strength of the ASOC.

Indeed, some noncentrosymmetric superconductors show novel features. For
example, isostructural Li₂Pd₃B and Li₂Pt₃B show contrasting behaviors.
Li₂Pd₃B exhibits conventional BCS-type properties [6], while Li₂Pt₃B is
a spin-triplet dominant superconductor [7] with nodes in the gap
function [7,8]. In this case, a different ASOC due to differences in
peculiar crystal structure distortion and atomic number were responsible
for the different superconducting states [9]. After the discovery of
spin-triplet superconductivity in Li₂Pt₃B, extensive studies have been
performed to search for novel superconductivity in noncentrosymmetric
superconductors containing heavy elements such as
Mg_(10 + x)Ir_(19 − y)B [10], BiPd [11], and ScIrP [12], but
parity-mixing is found to be weak [13,14], due to a crystal structure
that does not lead to strong ASOC enhancement.

Recently, more novel properties were reported in some noncentrosymmetric
superconductors. For example, a small internal magnetic field was
detected below T_(c) in noncentrosymmetric LaNiC₂, which was interpreted
as due to a breaking of time-reversal symmetry in the superconducting
state [1], although a relation between the breaking of inversion
symmetry and time-reversal symmetry is unclear.

Noncentrosymmetric Re₆Zr is a new candidate for a time-reversal
symmetry-breaking superconductor. Re₆Zr has an α-Mn type cubic crystal
structure with space group $I\bar{4}3m$[15] and a large upper critical
field close to the Pauli limit [16]. Figure 1 shows the α-Mn type
crystal structure, which has four independent crystallographic sites Mn
I: 2a (Wyckoff), 43m (Hermann-Mauguin), Mn II: 8c, 3m, Mn III: 24g₁, m,
and Mn IV: 24g₂, m[17]. Among them, only the Mn I (2a, 43m) site has an
inversion center. An internal magnetic field was detected in the
superconducting state by muon spin relaxation or rotation (μSR)
measurements [16]. The result was ascribed to broken time-reversal
symmetry in the superconducting state. It is known that a chiral p-wave
state or a chiral d-wave state can produce a tiny internal magnetic
field [18,19].

In order to investigate the gap structure, we performed nuclear
quadrupole resonance (NQR) measurements on Re₆Zr, and the isostructural
compounds Re₂₇Zr₅ and Re₂₄Zr₅. These compounds have an α-Mn type crystal
structure but with different superconducting transition temperatures,
with Re₂₄Zr₅ being stoichiometric. The NQR measurement performed at zero
magnetic field is one of the most powerful methods for the study of the
superconducting gap symmetry. We find that all the three compounds show
superconducting properties consistent with a conventional BCS gap
symmetry.

## II Experiment

The polycrystalline samples of Re₆Zr, Re₂₇Zr₅, and Re₂₄Zr₅ in this study
were synthesized by the arc-melting method. The Re (99.99

## III Results and Discussions

Figure 2 shows the XRD patterns and the ac susceptibility results for
Re₆Zr, Re₂₇Zr₅, and Re₂₄Zr₅. The lattice constant a is 9.714 A for
Re₆Zr, which is a little shorter than the reported value of 9.698 A
[15]. The T_(c) for Re₆Zr is 6.72 K,

which is very close to 6.75 K reported in Ref. [16]. The obtained
lattice constant and T_(c) are shown in Table 1. For Re₆Zr and Re₂₇Zr₅,
the XRD patterns can be fitted by the Rietveld method. For Re₂₄Zr₅, some
unidentified peaks are observed. The linewidth increases with increasing
Zr composition, which suggests that impurities or crystal distortions
increase with increasing Zr composition. In the ac susceptibility for
Re₂₄Zr₅, a small shoulder can be seen around T_(c), which is likely
attributable to the sample inhomogeneity. A similar result has been
reported in Nb-Re systems [20]. In α-Mn type systems, Re₂₄Zr₅ is
stoichiometric, while Re₆Zr and Re₂₇Zr₅ are nonstoichiometric with
Re-rich compositions. In the Re_(x)Zr_(1 − x) binary phase diagram [21],
a single phase α-Mn structure can be obtained only in a narrow range
with 0.82 ≤ x ≤ 0.87. The Re-to-Zr ratio is 82.8:17.2 for stoichiometric
Re₂₄Zr₅, which is quite close to the limit to obtain a single phase. On
the other hand, the Re-to-Zr ratio is 84.4:15.6 for Re₂₇Zr₅ and
85.7:14.3 for Re₆Zr. As seen in Fig. 2, the stoichiometric Re₂₄Zr₅
compound showed a small amount of additional peaks in the XRD chart,
which is likely due to the fact that the Re₂₄Zr₅ is close to the phase
boundary.

Figure 3 shows the ^(185/187)Re -NQR spectra at T = 10 K for the three
samples. Four peaks were observed for all samples. The Re nuclei have a
spin $I=\frac{5}{2}$, which will result in two transitions. In Re-Zr
systems with an α-Mn type structure, the unit cell has 58 atoms that are
distributed into two Zr sites (2a,8c) and two Re sites (24g₁, 24g₂)
[22]. Furthermore,

Figure 1: Crystal structure of α-Mn type Re-Zr system. It is a cubic
structure with space group $I\bar{4}3m$.

Figure 3: ^(185/187)Re -NQR spectrum of Re₆Zr, Re₂₇Zr₅, and Re₂₄Zr₅
measured at T = 10 K. Dotted curves are the theoretical simulations (see
text).

Figure 2: (a) XRD patterns for Re₆Zr, Re₂₇Zr₅, and Re₂₄Zr₅. The
theoretical curve and the differences between the theoretical curve and
the observed XRD are obtained by the Rietveld method. Arrows indicate
unidentified peaks. For clarity, in the inset we show the enlarged part
in the range of 38.8’–39.8’. (b) ac susceptibility measured using the
_in situ_ NQR coil at zero magnetic field. The arrows indicate T_(c) for
each sample.

Re has two isotopes ¹⁸⁵Re (natural abundance 37.5

$$\mathcal{H}=\frac{v_{Q}}{6}\left\{(3I^{2}-\widetilde{I}^{2})+\frac{\eta}{2}(I _{+}^{2}+I_{-}^{2})\right\}.$$
(1)

Here, v_(Q) and η are defined as

$$v_{Q}\equiv v_{z}=\frac{3}{2I(2I-1)h}e^{2}Q\frac{\partial^{2}V}{\partial z^{2}},$$
(2)

$$\eta=\frac{|v_{x}-v_{y}|}{v_{z}},$$
(3)

with $\frac{\partial^{2}V}{\partial u^{2}}$ (α = x, y, z) being the
electric field gradient at the position of the nucleus. In the
simulations, a Gaussian function exp {−(f/2δ)²} is convoluted, where f
is the frequency and δ is related to the full width at half maximum
(FWHM) of the transition line as $\text{FWHM}=2\delta\sqrt{2\ln(2)}$.
The v_(Q) and η were treated as parameters. The intensity ratio of each
peak depends on η. With the parameters listed in Table 1, we are able to
reproduce the experimental results as seen in Fig. 3. We note that v_(Q)
or the FWHM is proportional to Q, so the value for ¹⁸⁵Re (_Q_ =
2.7×10⁻²⁴ cm²) is 1.04 times the value for ¹⁸⁷Re (_Q_ = 2.6×10⁻²⁴ cm²).
The intensity for the uppermost peak does not agree with the simulation,
probably due to a worse quality factor of the coil in this frequency
range. In the case of large η, a signal from the forbidden transitions
($\pm\frac{1}{2}\leftrightarrow\pm\frac{5}{2}$) is expected. Indeed, we
detected such signals in the frequency range above 200 MHz, as seen in
Fig. 3.

Figure 4 shows the temperature dependence of 1/T₁ of ^(185/187)Re -NQR,
which was measured at the 1v_(Q)
($\pm\frac{1}{2}\leftrightarrow\pm\frac{3}{2}$) transition of site B.
The nuclear magnetization decay curve for each compound is well fitted
to the theoretical formula for different η[23],

$$\text{Re}_{6}\text{Zr}:\frac{M_{0}-M(t)}{M_{0}}=0.163\exp\left(- \frac{3.00t}{T_{1}}\right)$$
$$\qquad\qquad\qquad\qquad\qquad\qquad\qquad+0.837\exp\left(-\frac{8 .52t}{T_{1}}\right),$$
(4)
$$\text{Re}_{27}\text{Zr}_{5}:\frac{M_{0}-M(t)}{M_{0}}=0.170\exp \left(-\frac{3.00t}{T_{1}}\right)$$
$$\qquad\qquad\qquad\qquad\qquad\qquad\qquad\qquad\qquad+0.830\exp \left(-\frac{8.42t}{T_{1}}\right),$$
(5)
$$\text{Re}_{24}\text{Zr}_{5}:\frac{M_{0}-M(t)}{M_{0}}=0.187\exp \left(-\frac{3.00t}{T_{1}}\right)$$
$$\qquad\qquad\qquad\qquad\qquad\qquad\qquad\qquad\qquad+0.813\exp \left(-\frac{8.23t}{T_{1}}\right),$$
(6)

Figure 4: Temperature dependence of the spin-lattice relaxation rate
1/T₁ measured by NQR. The straight line above T_(c) represents the
T₁T = const relation. The solid curve below T_(c) is a calculation
assuming the s-wave gap function (see text).

l c c c c c & Re₆Zr (Re₃₀Zr₅) & Re₂₇Zr₅ & Re₂₄Zr₅
Lattice constant (Å) & 9.714 & & 9.726 & & 9.762
2Δ (k_(B)T_(c)) & 3.58 & & 3.55 & & 3.51
T_(c) (K) & 6.72 & & 6.53 & & 5.00
Site & A & B & A & B & A & B
v_(Q) (MHz) & 42 & 84 & 42 & 83 & 42 & 75
η & 0.6 & 0.6 & 0.6 & 0.6 & 0.6 & 0.7
FWHM ($\pm\frac{1}{2}\leftrightarrow\pm\frac{3}{2}$) (MHz) & 13 & 25 &
14 & 20 & 16 & 23
FWHM ($\pm\frac{3}{2}\leftrightarrow\pm\frac{3}{2}$) (MHz) & 19 & 36 &
24 & 34 & 28 & 37

Table 1: Crystal structure, the NQR parameters for ¹⁸⁷Re, and the
superconductivity parameters for Re₆Zr, Re₂₇Zr₅, and Re₃₄Zr₅.

where M₀ is the nuclear magnetization in the thermal equilibrium and
M(t) is the nuclear magnetization at a time t after the saturating
pulse. We have confirmed that T₁ measured at the
$\pm\frac{3}{2}\leftrightarrow\pm\frac{5}{2}$ transition gives the same
value. The recovery curve can be fitted with a single T₁ component below
and above T_(c), which indicates that the macroscopic phase separation
in the sample is small, if any. As seen in the figure, 1/ T₁ varies in
proportion to the temperature (T) above T_(c) for all samples, as
expected for conventional metals, indicating no electron-electron
interaction. Below T_(c), 1/ T₁ shows a coherence peak (Hebel-Slichter
peak) expected for an s-wave superconducting state. The 1/ T_(1S) in the
superconducting state is expressed as

$$\frac{T_{1N}}{T_{1S}} = \frac{2}{k_{B}T}\int\left(1+\frac{\Delta^{2}}{EE^{\prime}}\right) N_{S}(E)N_{S}(E^{\prime})$$
(7)
×f(E)[1 − f(E^(′))]δ(E − E^(′))dB dE^(′),

where 1/ T_(1N) is the relaxation rate in the normal state, N_(S)(E) is
the superconducting density of states (DOS), f(E) is the Fermi
distribution function, and $C=1+\frac{\Delta^{2}}{E^{\prime}}$ is the
coherence factor. To perform the calculation of Eq. (7), we follow Hebel
to convolute N_(S)(E) with a broadening function B(E)[24], which is
approximated by a rectangular function centered at E with a height of
1/2S. The solid curve below T_(c) shown in Fig. 4 is a calculation with
2Δ = 3.58k_(B)T_(c), b ≡ δ/Δ(0) = 0.030 for Re₂Zr, 2Δ = 3.55k_(B)T_(c),
b = 0.058 for Re₂Zr₅, and 2Δ = 3.51k_(B)T_(c), b = 0.107 for Re₂₄Zr₅.
The curve fits the experimental data reasonably well. The parameter 2Δ
is close to the BCS value of 3.53k_(B)T_(c). This result indicates an
isotropic superconducting gap in these compounds. A similar conclusion
was drawn by a recent London penetration depth measurement for Re₆Zr
[25].

Our result is inconsistent with a time-reversal symmetry-broken
superconducting state such as d + id or p + ip where the coherence peak
will be absent. We note that inconsistent results from different probes
have been reported in LaNiC₂, PrPt₄Ge₁₂, and the locally
noncentrosymmetric superconductor SrPtAs that has an inversion center in
a whole unit cell but not within a single layer. In these samples,
time-reversal symmetry breaking was suggested by μSR [1, 19, 26], but an
s-wave superconductivity was confirmed by NQR/NMR measurements [27, 28,
29]. In these materials, breaking of time-reversal symmetry has not been
observed, except for μSR.

## IV Summary

In summary, we have performed ^(185/187)Re -NQR measurements on the
noncentrosymmetric superconductors Re₆Zr, Re₂₇Zr₅, and Re₂₄Zr₅. The
T-linear behavior of the nuclear spin-lattice relaxation rate 1/ T₁
above T_(c) indicates the absence of spin correlations. The 1/ T₁ shows
a Hebel-Slichter peak just below T_(c) and decreases exponentially at
low temperatures for all samples, which suggests that the α-Mn type
Re-Zr system is in an s-wave fully gapped superconducting state, which
is inconsistent with a time-reversal symmetry-breaking state such as
d + id or p + ip.

## Acknowledgment

This work was supported by Research Grant No. JP15H05852 (Innovative
Areas "Topological Materials Science") from MEXT and Grant No.
JP16H04016 from JSPS.

## References

* [1] A. D. Hillier, J. Quintanilla, and R. Cywinski, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**102**, 117007 (2009). * [2] K. Matano, M. Kriener, K. Segawa, Y. Ando,
and G.-q. Zheng, Nat. Phys. **12**, 852 (2016). * [3] L. P. Gor’kov and
E. I. Rashba, Phys. Rev. Lett. **87**, 037004 (2001). * [4] P. A.
Frigeri, D. F. Agterberg, A. Koga, and M. Sigrist, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**92**, 097001 (2004). * [5] P. A. Frigeri, D. F. Agterberg, and M.
Sigrist, New J. Phys. **6**, 115 (2004). * [6] M. Nishiyama, Y. Inada,
and G.-q. Zheng, Phys. Rev. B **71**, 220505 (2005). * [7] M. Nishiyama,
Y. Inada, and G.-q. Zheng, Phys. Rev. Lett. **98**, 047002 (2007). * [8]
H. Q. Yuan, D. F. Agterberg, N. Hayashi, P. Badica, D. Vandervelde, K.
Togano, M. Sigrist, and M. B. Salamon, Phys. Rev. Lett. **97**, 017006
(2006). * [9] S. Harada, J. J. Zhou, Y. G. Yao, Y. Inada, and G.-q.
Zheng, Phys. Rev. B **86**, 220502 (2012). * [10] T. Klimczuk, Q. Xu, E.
Morosan, J. D. Thompson, H. W. Zandbergen, and R. J. Cava, Phys. Rev. B
**74**, 220502 (2006). * [11] B. Joshi, A. Thamizhavel, and S.
Ramakrishnan, Phys. Rev. B **84**, 064518 (2011). * [12] Y. Okamoto, T.
Inohara, Y. Yamakawa, A. Yamakage, and K. Takenaka, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn.
**85**, 013704 (2016). * [13] K. Tahara, Z. Li, H. X. Yang, J. L. Luo,
S. Kawasaki, and G.-q. Zheng, Phys. Rev. B **80**, 060503 (2009). * [14]
K. Matano, S. Maeda, H. Sawaoka, Y. Muro, T. Takabatake, B. Joshi, S.
Ramakrishnan, K. Kawashima, J. Akimitsu, and G.-q. Zheng, J. Phys. Soc.
Jpn. **82**, 084711 (2013). * [15] B. Matthias, J. Phys. Chem. Solids
**19**, 130 (1961). * [16] R. P. Singh, A. D. Hillier, B. Mazidian, J.
Quintanilla, J. F. Annett, D. M. Paul, G. Balakrishnan, and M. R. Lees,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **112**, 107002 (2014). * [17] D. Hobbs, J. Hafner, and
D. Spisak, Phys. Rev. B **68**, 014407 (2003). * [18] A. P. Mackenzie
and Y. Maeno, Rev. Mod. Phys. **75**, 657 (2003). * [19] P. K. Biswas,
H. Luetkens, T. Neupert, T. Sturzer, C. Baines, G. Pascua, A. P.
Schnyder, M. H. Fischer, J. Goryo, M. R. Lees, H. Maeter, F. Bruckner,
H.-H. Klauss, M. Nicklas, P. J. Baker, A. D. Hillier, M. Sigrist, A.
Amato, and D. Johrendt, Phys. Rev. B **87**, 180503 (2013). * [20] J.
Chen, L. Jiao, J. L. Zhang, Y. Chen, L. Yang, M. Nicklas, F. Steglich,
and H. Q. Yuan, Phys. Rev. B **88**, 144510 (2013). * [21] E. M.
Savitskii, M. A. Tylkina, and I. A. Tsyganova, Sov. J. At. Energy **7**,
724 (1961). * [22] J.-M. Joubert and M. Phejar, Prog. Mater. Sci.
**54**, 945 (2009). * [23] J. Chepin and J. H. Ross, Jr., J. Phys.:
Condens. Matter **3**, 8103 (1991). * [24] L. C. Hebel, Phys. Rev.
**116**, 79 (1959).

* [25] M. A. Khan, A. B. Karki, J. C. Prestigiacomo, T. Samanta, D.
Browne, S. Stadler, I. Vekhter, P. W. Adams, A. Pandey, R. Prozorov, S.
Teknowijoyo, K. Cho, D. E. Graf, and D. P. Young, Phys. Rev. B **94**,
144515 (2016). * [26] A. Maisuradze, W. Schnelle, R. Khasanov, R.
Gumeniuk, M. Nicklas, H. Rosner, A. Leithe-Jasper, Y. Grin, A. Amato,
and P. Thalmeier, Phys. Rev. B **82**, 024524 (2010). * [27] Y. Iwamoto,
Y. Iwasaki, K. Ueda, and T. Kohara, Phys. Lett. A **250**, 439 (1998). *
[28] F. Kanetake, H. Mukuda, Y. Kitaoka, K. ichi Magishi, H. Sugawara,
K. M. Itoh, and E. E. Haller, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **79**, 063702
(2010). * [29] K. Matano, K. Arima, S. Maeda, Y. Nishikubo, K. Kudo, M.
Nohara, and G.-q. Zheng, Phys. Rev. B **89**, 140504 (2014).
