Tuning of the ferromagnetic and superconducting transitions by
tin-doping in RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈

A. C. McLaughlin and J. P. Auffield

Interdisciplinary Research Centre in Superconductivity, University of
Cambridge, Madingley Road, Cambridge CB3 0HE, United Kingdom

and Department of Chemistry, University of Cambridge, Lensfield Road,
Cambridge CB2 1EW, United Kingdom

30 July 1999

Solid solutions Ru_(1 − x)Sn_(x)Sr₂GdCu₂O₈ with nominal compositions x =
0−0.4 have been prepared, although some secondary phases are also
present. Powder x-ray diffraction and physical measurements show that
Sn⁴⁺ substitutes only at the Ru sites in this layered material.
Sn-doping suppresses the ferromagnetic moment in the ruthenate layers,
and the Curie temperature decreases from 138 K in the undoped material
to 78 K for x = 0.4. This enhances the conductivity of the CuO₂ planes
and the onset of superconductivity increases from 36 K at x = 0 to 48 K
at x = 0.2, but falls thereafter. This may reflect the increase in hole
transfer to the CuO₂ planes and the reduction of ferromagnetic order
within the ruthenate layers. [S0163-1829(99)04746-3]

The 1212-type layered cuprate RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈ (Refs. 1 and 2) has recently
been found to display coexisting ferromagnetism and
superconductivity.[3, 4, 5] Samples typically have a Curie transition at
T_(M) = 132 K and bulk superconductivity below T_(C) = 0−46 K. A variety
of physical measurements, in particular zero-field muon spin rotation
experiments,[5] have demonstrated that the material is microscopically
uniform with no evidence for spatial phase separation of superconducting
and magnetic regions. Superconductivity is associated with the copper
oxide planes, while the ruthenium oxide slab behaves like SrRuO₃,[6, 7]
which is an itinerant electron ferromagnet below T_(M) = 165 K, rather
than Sr₂RuO₄, which is a _p_-wave superconductor with T_(C) 1 K.[8, 9] A
coexistence of superconductivity and weak ferromagnetism (canted
antiferromagnetism) was previously found in the related 1222-type
materials RuSr₂R_(1.4)Ce_(0.6)Cu₂O_(10 − δ) (_R_ = Gd or Eu).[10]

RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈ is found to be oxygen stoichiometric, and the doping of the
copper oxide planes necessary to induce superconductivity arises from
overlap of the minority spin Ru:_t_2_(g) and the Cu:3_d_s_2-_y_2 bands.
The distribution of holes between the two bands may thus be written in
terms of average oxidation states as Ru^(5 − 2p)Sr₂Gd(Cu^(2 + p))₂O₈.
Transport measurements suggest that the copper oxide planes are
underdoped with p 0.1 holes per Cu atom,[3] although a much higher
estimate of p 0.4 obtains from bond valence summations based on the
refined crystal structure,[4] which is consistent with the properties of
the Ru oxide layer. This contradiction suggests that a large proportion
of the holes in the copper oxide layers are trapped or strongly
scattering by the ferromagnetic Ru moments. To investigate the charge
distribution in RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈ further, we have attempted to substitute Ru
by diamagnetic Sn⁴⁺, which is of a similar size and charge. Here we
report preliminary results for samples of nominal composition
Ru_(1 − x)Sn_(x)Sr₂GdCu₂O₈ (_x_ = 0,1,0,2,0.3,0.4) which have
characterized by powder x-ray diffraction, superconducting quantum
interference device (SQUID) magnetometry, and resistivity measurements.

Ceramic samples of the above compositions were prepared by the
solid-state reaction of stoichiometric powders of RuO₂, SnO₂, SrCO₃,
Gd₂O₃, and CuO. These were ground and die pressed into pellets before
preliminary reaction in air at 1000 degC for 3 days. The samples were
reground, repelted, and heated at 1050 degC in flowing oxygen for a
further 3 days and, finally, slow cooled to room temperature.

Powder x-ray diffraction patterns were recorded at room temperature
using Cu K _a_ radiation (Fig. 1). Changes in the peak positions of the
tetragonal RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈-type phase indicate solid solution formation,
but small amounts of the secondary perovskite phases SrSnO₃ and SrRuO₃
were also seen. The contributions from all three phases were fitted to
the x-ray data, using the previously reported model for RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈
which uses a split site for the oxygen atoms in the RuO₂ planes to model
rotations of RuO₆ octahedra around the c axis.[4] (These rotations
result from the mismatch of the in-plane Ru-O and Cu-O bonds and have a
coherence length that is too small to lead to an observable
superstructure in the x-ray diffraction experiment, although this is
seen by electron diffraction.[4]) The results in Table I show that
substitution of Sn into RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈ increases the a cell parameter
while c decreases, although there is no significant change in the cell
volume. Refinement of the internal coor

Figure 1: Powder x-ray diffraction patterns for
Ru_(1 − x)Sn_(x)Sr₂GdCu₂O₈ solid solutions of nominal x = 0−0.4 with the
most intense peaks from the SrRuO₃(×) and SrSnO₃(○) secondary phases
marked.

dinates shows an increase in the in-plane Ru-O distance and a
concomitant decrease in the Ru-O-Ru angle (Fig. 2). This is consistent
with substitution of Sn at the Ru sites, as Sn⁴⁺ is slightly larger than
Ru⁴⁺/Ru⁵⁺. No significant trends in the other Ru-O or Cu-O bond lengths
were found.

The magnetizations of the five powdered Ru_(1 − x)Sn_(x)Sr₂GdCu₂O₈
samples (Fig. 3) were measured on a Quantum Design SQUID magnetometer.
Samples were zero field cooled and measured from 10 to 300 K in an
applied field of 1 kOe. A broadening of the magnetic transition and a
reduction in the Curie temperature T_(M) with increasing Sn substitution
is clearly seen in these data, and the values of T_(M) (estimated from
the minima in dM/dT) are plotted against nominal x in Fig. 4. No
Meissner effect is observed below T_(c) for these powdered samples as
the small negative magnetization resulting from intragranular
supercurrents is swamped by the positive contributions from the
ferromagnetic Ru and paramagnetic Gd moments.

Magnetic hysteresis loops recorded at 10 K with the field swept between
±50 kOe confirm the ferromagnetic order in all the samples; a typical
loop is shown in Fig. 5. A very small hysteresis was observed for each
sample, and the coercive fields and remanent moments are displayed in
Table 1: these both decrease rapidly with x. Both the ferromagnetic Ru
moment $\mu_{\rm Ru}$ and paramagnetic Gd moments $\mu_{\rm Gd}$
contribute to the overall magnetization. The saturated Ru moment was
estimated by fitting the total magnetic moment in the range H = 25− 50
kOe with the function

$$\mu(H)=\mu_{\rm Gd}F(H)+(1-x)\,\mu_{\rm Ru},$$

where F(H) is the Brillouin function for the S = 7/2 Gd³⁺ spins. The
estimated Ru moment decreases rapidly with x as shown in Table 1.

The resistivities of sintered polycrystalline bars (approximate
dimensions 4 × 4 × 12 mm³) were measured between 15 and 300 K using the
standard four-probe ac technique (Fig. 6). Broad superconducting
transitions are observed in all five Ru_(1 − x)Sn_(x)Sr₂GdCu₂O₈ samples,
although the zero-resistance point lies below the lowest measured
temperature for some samples. The onset T_(c) (defined by the
temperature of the resistivity maximum) is plotted against x in Fig. 3.
All five samples are semiconducting (dp/dT<0) above T_(c) ; however, the
x = 0.2 sample changes to metallic (dp/dT>0) behavior above 220 K. This
sample has the highest T_(c) and the lowest normal-state resistivity
(Table 1).

The systematic changes in the crystallographic, magnetic, and resistive
properties of the Ru_(1 − x)Sn_(x)Sr₂GdCu₂O₈ samples show that Sn is
progressively replacing Ru in the primary phase. The observation of a
superconducting transition even in the x = 0.4 sample demonstrates that
no significant Sn substitution occurs at the Cu sites, as the
superconductivity in this material [5] and other cuprates is sensitive
to very small levels of such diamagnetic dopants. The presence of the
secondary phase SrSnO₃ indicates that the actual levels of Sn
substitution are lower than the nominal proportions quoted.

Figure 3: Magnetization/field data for the Ru_(1 − x)Sn_(x)Sr₂GdCu₂O₈
solid solutions.

Figure 2: Changes in the xy-plane Ru-O bond length and Ru-O-Ru angle
with nominal Sn content in Ru_(1 − x)Sn_(x)Sr₂GdCu₂O₈ solid solutions.

However, SrSnO₃ is diamagnetic and nonconducting, and the ferromagnetic
conducting perovskite SrRuO₃ is present at <3

Sn⁴⁺ is diamagnetic and does not contribute electronic states close to
the Fermi level in the Ru_(1 − x)Sn_(x)Sr₂GdCu₂O₈ solid solutions. This
disrupts the itinerant electron ferromagnetism of the RuO₂ planes,
leading to a rapid decrease in T_(M) from 138 to 78 K at x = 0.4. The
substitution also affects the electronic properties of the CuO₂ planes.
The hole distribution may now be written
(Ru^(5 − 2p))_(1 − x)Sn_(x)Sr₂GdCu^(2 + p + x(0.5 − p)))₂O₈, showing
that the hole concentration in the CuO₂ planes increases with Sn doping
x if the intrinsic doping level p remains constant. This is consistent
with the initial trend in the resistivity data for x = 0 - 0.2, as T_(c)
increases and the normal-state resistivity decreases and becomes more
metallic in character. However, the subsequent fall in T_(c) for x = 0.3
and 0.4 is not as expected for overdoped materials, as the normal-state
resistivities should become more metal-like, whereas the observed
variations (Fig. 6) show a return to semiconducting behavior. This may
reflect the presence of increasing amounts of nonconducting SrSnO₃
within these polyphasic sintered ceramic samples. These results are in
contrast to previous substitutions of 10

The coexistence of ferromagnetism and superconductivity in RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈
has previously been attributed to the momenta of the Cooper pairs in the
CuO₂ planes and the ferromagnetic moments in the RuO₂ planes both being
parallel to the xy plane.[3, 5] However, the relatively low T_(c) and
the disparity between the apparent hole concentration inferred from
transport measurements and that estimated by bond valence summations
suggested some hole trapping or scattering in the normal state and pair
breaking within the superconducting state of the CuO₂ planes is caused
by the ferromagnetism. This could result from slight canting of the
moments due to disorder of the rotations and tilts of the RuO₆ octahedra
or the presence of out-of-plane spin waves. This view is supported by
the increases in conductivity and superconductivity with initial Sn
doping as the ferromagnetic Ru moment decreases.

In conclusion, this study shows that Sn can be substituted for Ru in the
ferromagnetic superconductor RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈, enabling the Curie
temperature to be reduced from 138 to 78 K, while the onset of the
superconducting transition initially increases from 36 to 48 K. The
latter change may reflect an increase in the hole doping of the CuO₂
planes, the suppression of the ferromagnetism, or both of these factors.
The ability of Sn substitution to tune both electronic transitions over
large temperature ranges and the use of ¹¹⁹Sn as an NMR and Mosshauer
nucleus will enable the unique coexistence of high-temperature
ferromagnetism and superconductivity in this system to be investigated
further, after phase-pure Ru_(1 − x)Sn_(x)Sr₂GdCu₂O₈ solid solutions
have been prepared.

We thank EPSRC for the provision of research Grant No. GR/M59976 and S.
Rycroft for help with resistivity measurements.

Figure 4: Variation of the Curie temperature T_(M) and the onset
superconducting critical temperature T_(c) with nominal Sn content in
Ru_(1 − x)Sn_(x)Sr₂GdCu₂O₈ solid solutions.

Figure 5: Magnetic hysteresis loop for Ru_(0.5)Sn_(0.2)Sr₂GdCu₂O₈ at 10
K. The inset shows the small hysteresis.

Figure 6: Resistivity data for polycrystalline
Ru_(1 − x)Sn_(x)Sr₂GdCu₂O₈ solid solutions.

## References

* [1] L. Bauernfeind, W. Widder, and H. F. Braun, Physica C **254**, 151
(1995). * [2] I. Felner, U. Asaf, S. Reich, and Y. Tsabba, Physica C
**311**, 163 (1999). * [3] J. L. Tallon, C. Bernhard, M. E. Bowden, P.
W. Gilbert, T. M. Stoto, and D. J. Pringle, IEEE Trans. Appl. Supercond.
**9**, 1696 (1999). * [4] A. C. Mclaughlin, W. Zhou, J. P. Attfield, A.
N. Fitch, and J. L. Tallon, Phys. Rev. B **60**, 7512 (1999). * [5] C.
Bernhard, J. L. Tallon, Ch. Niedermayer, Th. Blasius, A. Golnik, E.
Brucher, R. K. Kremer, D. R. Noakes, C. E. Stronach, and E. J. Ansaldo,
Phys. Rev. B **59**, 14 099 (1999). * [6] J. M. Longo, P. M. Raccah, and
J. B. Goodenough, J. Appl. Phys. **39**, 1327 (1968). * [7] S. Uchida,
Physica C **185-189**, 28 (1991). * [8] Y. Maeno, H. Hashimoto, K.
Yoshida, S. Nishizaki, T. Fujita, J. G. Bednorz, and F. Lichtenberg,
Nature (London) **372**, 532 (1994). * [9] K. Ishida, H. Mukuda, Y.
Kitaoka, K. Asayama, Z. Q. Mao, Y. Mori, and Y. Maeno, Nature (London)
**396**, 658 (1998). * [10] I. Felner, U. Asaf, Y. Levi, and O. Millo,
Phys. Rev. B **55**, R3374 (1997).
