# Effect of Zn doping on charge transport in YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − y)

K. Mizuhashi, K. Takenaka, Y. Fukuzumi, and S. Uchida

Department of Superconductivity, University of Tokyo, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo
113, Japan

###### Abstract

The resistivity and the in-plane Hall coefficient are investigated on
Zn-doped YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − y) single crystals with emphasis on the
underdoped spin-gap phase (y ∼ 0.37) where a correlation between charge
transport and spin dynamics is clearly seen. The doped Zn acts as a
strong potential scatterer on one hand, and induces a local spin
magnetic moment on the other even when the charge carriers are not
localized. It is found that the characteristic temperature in these
transport coefficients, which indicates that a spin gap starts to open,
do not change with Zn doping in contrast to a radical depression of the
superconducting transition temperature.

The mechanism of charge transport in the normal state has been one of
the fundamental problems of high-T_(c) superconductor.[1] Recently, an
intimate relationship between charge dynamics of doped holes and spin
excitations in the CuO₂ plane has been strongly suggested by the
transport[2, 3] and optical experiments[4] on underdoped
YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − y) (Y123) and YBa₂Cu₄O₈ (Y124). For the underdoped Y123
(Ref. [2]) and Y124,[3] the in-plane resistivity (ρ_(a)) deviates from
the T-linear behavior and the Hall coefficient (R_(H)) from the 1/T one
below a certain temperature T^(*) well above T_(c) , indicating a
suppression of carrier scattering at low temperatures. NMR experiments
on these compounds show that the Knight shift (ΔK) decreases with
decreasing temperature, and the relaxation rate (T₁T)⁻¹ on Cu site
[Cu(2)] in the CuO₂ plane is reduced with respect to a Curie-Weiss law,
forming a peak at a temperature below T^(*).[5] The NMR results are
suggestive of opening of a gap (or a pseudogap) in the spin excitation
spectrum–so-called _spin gap_–which has been confirmed by the recent
neutron experiments.[6] Surprisingly, the out-of-plane (c-axis) optical
conductivity spectrum for the underdoped Y123 (Ref. [4]) and Y124 (Ref.
[7])-pound displays the development of a pseudogap below T^(*)–the
optical conductivity in the low-frequency region is progressively
suppressed with lowering temperature in the normal state–which appears
to be associated with the opening of the spin (pseudo) gap and
responsible for the semiconducting T dependence of the c-axis
resistivity.[8]

As is well known and is still debated, nonmagnetic Zn substitution for
Cu(2) in the high-T_(c) cuprates radically suppresses T_(c).[9] Only a
few percent of the Zn substitution completely suppresses
superconductivity and makes the compound insulating at low temperatures.
⁸⁹Y NMR measurements on the Zn-doped Y123 have given an evidence at the
microscopic level that the Zn doping creates in-plane disorder without
affecting the hole density.[10] However, the NMR as well as μSR
studies[11, 12] have revealed an interesting change in the magnetic
properties of the CuO₂ planes. The Zn doping in the underdoped regime
induces local magnetic moments, possibly associated with Cu(2) spins,
and when the superconductivity disappears, the local moments freeze at
low temperatures, creating a spin-glass-like disordered magnetic
state.[12] In this case the pseudogap in the spin excitation spectrum
seems to be destroyed as also suggested by the recent NMR experiments on
Zn-doped Y124.[13] Since the magnetism and the charge transport in the
CuO₂ plane arise from a strongly hybridized state between Cu(3d) and
O(2p) [Cu(3d) spins and O(2p) holes are never decoupled],[14] a change
in the magnetic properties should accompany the change in charge
dynamics. Therefore, the study of Zn-doping effect on the transport
properties will yield a unique opportunity to get deeper insight into
the interplay between charge and spin in high-T_(c) superconductors.

We present in this paper the results of transport properties measured on
the Zn-doped Y123 single crystals [YBa₂(Cu_(1 − x)Zn_(x))₃O_(7 − y)]
with optimum (y = 0.07, T_(c) = 92 K) and underdoped (y = 0.37,
T_(c) ∼ 60 K) oxygen content. Single crystals of Zn-doped Y123 were
grown by CuO-BaO self-flux method using a Y₂O₃ crucible to avoid
contamination from the crucible. This is crucial for the present
experiments, as we are concerned with the Zn doping level of 1

The Zn content was examined by electron-probe-micro-analysis (EPMA) and
we did not find inhomogenity in the Zn concentration within the accuracy
of the instrument. Furthermore, we checked the sample dependence of
ρ_(ab) using several crystals grown and annealed at the same time. The
variation of T_(c) among different crystals was within 1 K and that of
ρ_(ab) was within 5

Figure 1 shows the temperature dependence of ρ_(ab) for Zn-doped Y123
microtwinned single crystals with oxygen deficiency y = 0.37. As far as
the T dependence is concerned, ρ_(ab) is basically the same as ρ_(a)
which includes the contribution only from the CuO₂ planes since the
chain contribution should be very small due to oxygen disorder in the
chains.[8] For both optimal and underdoped compounds, a temperature
independent residual resistivity component (ρ₀) adds to ρ_(ab) of
Zn-free crystal with increasing Zn concentration.

Figure 1 demonstrates that, for the oxygen-reduced Y123, Zn doping
induces a superconductor-insulator transition at z_(c) ∼ 0.03. The
critical resistivity is ∼400 μΩ cm which corresponds to ∼6.8 kΩ/▫_per
CuO₂ plane_ and is close to the universal value h/4 e² = 6.45 kΩ/▫. The
critical resistance in the two-dimensional system which separate the
superconducting regime from insulating one have attracted much interest.
Haviland, Liu, and Goldman[16] showed that for amorphous Bi thin films
the transition takes place at the sheet resistance equal to the
universal value. It has been reported that for high-T_(c) films,
DyBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − y) and Nd_(2 − x)Ce_(x)CuO_(4 − δ), the transition takes
place at ∼6 kΩ/▫ (Ref. [17]) and 8∼9 kΩ/▫,[18] respectively.

The most notable fact in Fig. 1 is that the Zn doping induces a
T-independent term in ρ_(ab) without changing the T-dependent term. This
is the case also with fully oxygenated Y123 (Ref. [19]) as shown in the
inset of Fig. 1 for detwinned single crystals with z = 0 and 0.02 in
which Zn does not affect the T-linear term in ρ_(a). Particularly, in
the case of the oxygen-reduced compound, even for the z = 0.04 where
superconductivity disappears, the feature in ρ_(ab)(T) around T^(*)
remains, although the carriers tend to localize below 50 K. The results
demonstrate that the Zn doping does not affect the characteristic
temperature T^(*) in ρ_(ab) which indicates the temperature below which
the spin gap starts to open.[2, 3] Thus we may conclude that Zn doping
increases the elastic scattering rate without much influencing the
inelastic scattering process.

We show in Fig. 2 the temperature dependence of ρ_(c) for the
oxygen-reduced crystals with and without Zn doping. The relationship
between the interplane charge transport and the _spin gap_ formation has
recently been suggested for underdoped Y123.[4, 8] It is shown that a
crossover in ρ_(c)(T) from metallic T dependence (at high temperatures)
to nonmetallic one takes place at a temperature near T^(*). In this
regard, the semiconducting ρ_(c)(T) is more sensitive to the opening of
a gap or a pseudogap. It is remarkable that both magnitude and T
dependence of ρ_(c) do not change with Zn doping, providing another
evidence for the persistence of the spin gap in the Zn-doped compounds.

To get further insight into the effect of Zn doping on the in-plane
charge transport, we measured Hall coefficient (R_(H)). Magnetic field
is applied parallel to the c axis and the current flows in the ab plane.
We show in Fig. 3 the temperature dependence of R_(H) for Zn-doped Y123
single crystals. For y = 0.07, R_(H) varies with T, being almost
proportional to 1/T. For the oxygen-reduced sample R_(H) deviates from
the 1/T dependence below about 250 K and forms a peak at about 100 K.
With increasing Zn concentration R_(H) increases over the entire
temperature range,[20] but the temperature below which R_(H) starts to
deviate from the 1/T behavior does not change [see the solid curves in
Fig. 3

Figure 3: Temperature dependence of the in-plane Hall coefficient for
YBa₂(Cu_(1 − x)Zn_(x))₃O_(7 − y) with y = 0.07 and y = 0.37. The solid
curves represent the 1/T fit to the data in the high-temperature region.

Figure 2: Temperature dependence of the out-of-plane resistivity for the
crystals with z = 0 and z = 0.02 (y = 0.37).

(R_(H) = A/T + B) which best-fit the data in the high-temperature
region]. Thus, the characteristic temperature in R_(H)(T) which appears
to coincide with T^(*) in ρ_(ab) dose not significantly change with Zn
doping. We should note that the characteristic temperature in these
transport coefficients does not change in sharp contrast to the rapid
suppression of T_(c) . Therefore, it may be concluded that Zn does not
affect the spectrum of excitations or a portion of their spectrum which
couples with the charge dynamics in the normal state, even if it might
seriously affect different parts of the spectrum which were responsible
for superconducting pair formation.

Now we discuss the Zn-doping effect on the transport properties in
relation with the magnetic properties investigated for Zn-doped Y123 and
Y124. NMR studies have presented quite significant results of the
Zn-doping effect on spin dynamics. For Y123 and Y124 which are in the
underdoped regime, (T₁T)⁻¹ of Cu(2), proportional to the susceptibility
χ^(′′)(Q, ω ∼ 0) with Q = (π, π) representing antiferromagnetic (AF)
wave vector shows a Curie-Weiss-like T dependence at high temperatures.
As temperature goes down, (T₁T)⁻¹ is reduced relative to the Curie-Weiss
behavior below a temperature indicating _spin gap_ formation and as a
result forms a peak well above T_(c) . Upon Zn doping the peak of
(T₁T)⁻¹ is washed out and (T₁T)⁻¹ continues to increase with lowering
temperature [13]. This result seems to indicate that the _spin gap_ at
Q = (π, π) disappears, which was suggested also by the neutron inelastic
scattering by Kakurai etal.[21], showing that the spectral density in
the low-energy region increases with Zn doping. On the other hand, the
neutron experiment by Harashina etal.[22] have observed the spin gap
feature at high temperatures while it almost disappears at low
temperatures, possibly due to the disorder effect which creates a
spin-glass-like state.

The sensitiveness of (T₁T)⁻¹ to Zn doping is in sharp contrast to the T
dependences of ρ_(ab)(T) and ρ_(c)(T). In particular, ρ_(c)(T), which is
expected to have a more intimate connection with the spin gap [4, 8]
shows no significant change with Zn doping. This fact may indicate that
the spin gap at q = Q has no direct connection to the charge transport.

In contrast to (T₁T)⁻¹, the Knight shift at Cu(2), ΔK, does not change
appreciably with Zn doping, as demonstrated by the measurement on
Zn-doped Y124 (Ref. [13]) which is an intrinsically underdoped material.
ΔK is proportional to the uniform susceptibility χ(q = 0) and shows a
sharp decrease with lowering T for any high-T_(c) cuprate in the
underdoped regime. The NMR result indicates that the spin gap persists
against Zn doping at least at q = 0 and so that the spin gap is a local
phenomenon [23, 24], that is, the development of the spin gap extends
over most of the momentum space. As evidenced by the recent NMR
experiment [11], a Zn impurity affects the Cu(2) sites only in its
vicinity and it does not change the global feature of the spin
pseudogap. We may conclude that the charge transport has a connection
with the global feature in the spin fluctuations in the momentum space,
not with a particular spin gap, say, at q = Q[25].

Figures 4(a) and 4(b) demonstrate how the in-plane resistivity mimics
the uniform susceptibility. We plot in Fig. 4(a)
[ρ_(ab)(T) − ρ_(ab)(0)]/αT vs T, where ρ_(ab)(0) is the intercept of the
T-linear part of ρ_(ab)(T) at T = 0 and α is the slope of the T-linear
ρ_(ab) . For χ(0) we plot in Fig. 4(b) the static magnetic
susceptibility χ_(m)(T) measured on the sintered pellets with the same
Zn and oxygen contents and annealed in the same procedure.

For the maximum oxygen content (∼6.93) all the curves in Figs. 4(a) and
4(b) are nearly flat in the normal state, reflecting the T-linear ρ_(ab)
and the Pauli-paramagnetic χ_(m) over a wide temperature range,
respectively. The Zn doping does not cause any appreciable change in the
T dependence of ρ_(ab) , and similarly the T dependence of χ_(m) remains
nearly flat with a small Curie term seen for z = 0.02, which corresponds
to the magnetic moment of ∼ 0.2μ_(B) or less per Zn.

The plots for the oxygen-reduced compounds are also similar in the
high-temperature region, showing a characteristic decrease below ∼250 K.
The effect of Zn doping does not change the main feature in the
high-temperature region. A difference becomes apparent only in the
low-temperature region, where a Curie term in χ_(m) due to local
magnetic moments develops progressively with z. The induced moment is
estimated to be ∼ 0.8μ_(B) per Zn, consistent with the results of NMR
and μSR experiments [11, 12]. By contrast, an appreciable change is not
seen in the resistivity data plotted in Fig. 4(a) for small Zn contents
(z < z_(c)). A pronounced upturn, reminiscent of a Curie term in
χ_(m)(T), appears only for nonsuperconducting z = 0.04 reflecting a
carrier localization at low temperatures.

A surprising fact is that the Curie term, an evidence for the localized
magnetic moments induced by nonmagnetic Zn, manifests itself in χ_(m)(T)
even for z < 0.04 , whereas the in-plane resistivity is metallic over
the entire temperature range above T_(c) without showing any indication
for carrier localization. This is quite anomalous in view of the NMR
evidence that Cu(3_d_) and O(2_p_) holes forms a strongly hybridized
state [14], that is, the decoupling into localized Cu(3_d_) spins and
O(2_p_) charge carriers does not take place in the CuO₂ plane. Formation
of localized moments in the metallic

Figure 4: (a) [ρ_(ab)(T) − ρ_(ab)(0)]/α_(ab)T as a function of
temperature, where α_(ab) is the slope of the T-linear region of ρ_(ab)
curve and ρ_(ab)(0) is the extrapolated value to T = 0 K from the
T-linear region. (b) Temperature dependence of the magnetic
susceptibility measured on the sintered pellets with the same oxygen
contents as those of the single crystals utilized for resistivity
measurement.

state is a challenging problem for both Fermi liquid and non-Fermi
liquid theories. In the Fermi liquid picture where the same electron
carries both charge and spin, it seems hard to suppose that the strong
impurities, in the unitarity scattering limit, produce localized
magnetic moments in the metallic state. Actually, in the highly doped
material, 90 K-Y123, Zn induces a reduced magnetic moment [11] and the
magnetic moment is much more reduced in the overdoped
La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄ with x = 0.30. [26] Nagaosa and Ng have recently
shown that a nonmagnetic impurity can induce localized moment when the
spin gap is presumed in the uniform RVB state. [27]

In summary, we have investigated the Zn-doping effect on the transport
properties of YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − y) with particular emphasis on its
underdoped spin gap phase. It is found that the doped Zn acts as a
strong scatterer for the in-plane charge transport, but the principal
feature in the T dependences of the transport coefficients, associated
possibly with the opening of a spin pseudogap, is not affected by Zn
doping. From these results we conclude that the charge transport has
relevance to local spin fluctuations not restricted at q = Q in the
momentum space. It is also characteristic of the underdoped spin gap
regime that Zn induces fairly large local magnetic moments (∼ 0.8μ_(B))
even when charge carriers are not localized.

We thank N. Nagaosa, H. Takagi, Y. Kitaoka, H. Fukuyama, N. P. Ong, and
D. Pines for useful discussions and comments. This research was
supported by a Grant-in-Aid for Scientific Research on Priority Area,
"Science of High T_(c) Superconductivity" from the Ministry of
Education, Science, and Culture of Japan and by the Mitsubishi
Foundation.

## References

* [1] For a review, see N. P. Ong, in _Physical Properties of
High-Temperature Superconductors II_, edited by D. M. Ginsberg (World
Scientific, Singapore, 1990), p. 459. * [2] T. Ito, K. Takenaka, and S.
Uchida, Phys. Rev. Lett. **70**, 3995 (1993). * [3] B. Bucher _et al._,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **70**, 3995 (1993). * [4] C. C. Homes _et al._, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **71**, 1645 (1993). * [5] H. Yasuoka, T. Imai, and T.
Shimizu, in _Strong Correlation and Superconductivity_, edited by H.
Fukuyama, S. Mackawa, and A. P. Malozemoff (Springer, Berlin, 1989), p.
254. * [6] J. Rossat-Mignod _et al._, Physica (Amsterdam) **185-189C**,
86 (1991); P. M. Gehring _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **44**, 2811 (1991). *
[7] D. N. Basov _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **50**, 3511 (1994). * [8] K.
Takenaka _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **50**, 6534 (1994). * [9] For example,
B. Jayaram _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **38**, 2903 (1988). * [10] H. Alloul
_et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **67**, 3140 (1991). * [11] A. V. Mahajan _et
al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **72**, 1300 (1994). * [12] P. Mendels _et al._,
Phys. Rev. B **49**, 10 035 (1994). * [13] G. Zheng _et al._, J. Phys.
Soc. Jpn. **62**, 2591 (1993). * [14] H. Alloul, T. Ohno, and P.
Mendels, Phys. Rev. Lett. **63**, 1700 (1989). * [15] H. C. Montgomery,
J. Appl. Phys. **42**, 2971 (1971); B. F. Logan, S. O. Rice, and R. F.
Wick, _ibid._**42**, 2975 (1971). * [16] D. B. Haviland, Y. Liu, and A.
M. Goldman, Phys. Rev. Lett. **62**, 2180 (1989). * [17] T. Wang _et
al._, Phys. Rev. B **43**, 8623 (1991). * [18] S. Tanda, M. Honma, and
T. Nakayama, Phys. Rev. B **43**, 8725 (1991). * [19] T. R. Chien, Z. Z.
Wang, and N. P. Ong, Phys. Rev. Lett. **67**, 2088 (1991). * [20]
Although Zn doping increases the magnitude of R_(H), this does not imply
that the carrier density decreases with z. The Zn-doping dose not affect
the carrier density as evidenced by the NMR study (Ref. [11]) and also
by the almost unchanged slope (α_(ab)) of the T-linear ρ_(ab) at high
temperatures. Hence, R_(H) may be determined by a subtle balance between
elastic and inelastic scattering of carriers. * [21] K. Kakurai _et
al._, Phys. Rev. B **48**, 3485 (1993). * [22] H. Harashina _et al._, J.
Phys. Soc. Jpn. **62**, 4009 (1993). * [23] P. Monthoux and D. Pines,
Phys. Rev. B **49**, 4261 (1994). * [24] N. Nagaosa and P. A. Lee, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **64**, 2450 (1990); Phys. Rev. B **45**, 966 (1992). * [25]
Similar conclusion has been drawn from the recent thermopower
measurement by J. R. Cooper _et al._ (unpublished), which indicates that
Zn doping does not destroy the pseudogap but fills it in gradually. *
[26] N. Ichikawa and S. Uchida (unpublished). * [27] N. Nagaosa and T-K.
Ng (unpublished).
