# Observation of anomalous reentrant superconductivity in Sr1-_x_KxBiO3

D. C. Kim, J. S. Kim, H. R. Kang, G. T. Kim, A. N. Baranov, and Y. W.
Park

Department of Physics and Condensed Matter Research Institute, Seoul
National University, Seoul 151-742, Korea

J. S. Pshirkov and E. V. Antipov

Department of Chemistry, Moscow State University, Moscow 119899, Russia

Received 14 September 2000; revised manuscript received 24 April 2001;
published 11 July 2001

###### Abstract

We report the observation of a reentrant superconducting-normal
resistive transition in Sr1-_x_KxBiO3 superconductors. In contrast to
previously reported reentrant resistive transition behaviors, the
reentrant resistivity appearing at zero magnetic field is suppressed to
zero by applying an external magnetic field (_H_) or increasing the
electrical transport current (_I_): an observation of the recovery of a
zero resistive superconducting state induced by H or I. An analysis of
the normal-state resistivity data indicates the important role that
disordered junction barriers between superconducting grains might play
on the observed reentrant resistivity behavior. Possible physical
origins of this anomalous phenomenon are discussed.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.64.064502

Previously, several experimental results for the reentrant
superconducting-normal resistive transitions (RRT’s) have been reported
in various superconducting systems, including granular superconductors,
Al thin films, and borocarbide (_R_NBC) superconductors.[1, 2, 3, 4] If
the general behavior of the RRT and its physical origins are considered,
we can categorize the previously reported RRT’s into two main groups:
magnetic and nonmagnetic. The magnetic origin, observed in
superconductors containing magnetic elements such as _R_NBC
superconductors with R = Tm, Er, Ho, and Dy, involves the pair-breaking
effect due to local magnetic moments.[1] The nonmagnetic origin was
found in granular superconducting systems. In this case, the observed
RRT was attributed to the destruction of the Josephson weak links caused
by the increase of the tunneling resistance in the grain barriers at low
temperatures.[2, 3] The RRT observed in granular Al films was also
discussed on the basis of Fulde’s theory in a dirty superconductor.[4]
Also in cuprate superconductors observations of the RRT were
reported.[5, 6, 7] Especially the RRT found in Bi-2212/2221 intergrowth
single crystals was explained by the weakening of the Josephson coupling
between trilayers by applying a magnetic field or a large driving
current.[6, 7] In all these reports, the superconducting region between
the normal states was observed to be reduced by either an increase of I
or H, and a further increase of I or H resulted in the eventual
breakdown of the superconducting state. In addition to the RRT discussed
above, a different normal-superconducting transition induced by H was
observed in Eu_x_Sn1-_x_Mo_x_S_8.[8] The superconducting state of this
compound at low temperatures (_T_ < 1.15 K) breaks down at low H (_H_ >
1 T) but at high H (_H_ > 3 T), the superconducting state is recovered.
This phenomenon was explained in terms of the Jaccarino-Peter
compensation effect, the magnetic interaction of conduction electrons
with the rare-earth ferromagnetic ions (Eu³⁺).[9]

Contrary to previously observed RRT’s, another type of the RRT has
recently been reported in the Sr1-_x_KxBiO3 (SKBO) compound.[10, 11] At
zero magnetic field the reentrant resistivity suddenly appears at a
temperature below T , and it becomes suppressed to zero by applying H or
increasing I; that is, one observes the recovery of the zero resistive
superconducting state by applying a magnetic field or increasing the
electrical transport current. The peculiarity of this observation is
that the observed RRT behavior with respect to H and I cannot be simply
understood by the general Josephson coupling mechanism between
superconducting grains, which becomes the normal state by applying H and
I. This requires a consideration of another special tunneling mechanism
with a specific character of the tunneling barriers in our observations.
In this paper, we present the magnetotransport data of various SKBO
samples confirming the previous reports on this RRT behavior and carry
out the phenomenological analysis that would give physical insight into
the observation of this anomalous RRT phenomenon.

The SKBO compound is a recently discovered superconducting bismuthate
having a similar structure to Ba1-_x_KxBiO3, where the Ba²⁺ site is
replaced by Sr²⁺.[12, 13, 14] To synthesize the SKBO compound, first the
stoichiometric amounts of Sr2BiO3, KO2, and Bi2O3 with a nominal Sr/K
ratio of 0.4/0.6 was ground and sealed in a Au capsule inside an
Ar-filled glove box. After placing the Au capsule in a belt-type
high-pressure furnace, pressure was increased to 2 GPa and the
temperature was increased to 700 degC. This was maintained for 60 min.
Four samples were synthesized for the magnetotransport measurements.
Sample 1 and sample 2 were made using the above synthesis condition. For
sample 3, the reaction time was 20 min while for sample 4 the synthesis
pressure of 5 GPa was applied. Regardless of different synthesis
conditions all samples show identical x-ray-diffraction patterns, that
of a single perovskitelike phase of SKBO with typical lattice parameters
a = b = 5.94 A and c = 8.43 A .[15] The maximum amount of impurity phase
found in certain samples is less than 5

Figure 1 shows the temperature dependence of resistivity for our SKBO
samples in various magnetic fields with I = 100 μA. In sample 2 and
sample 3 the RRT is clearly observed below T_(c) at H = 0. In sample 2
the observed reentrant resistivity (r_(e)) below the reentrant
temperature T_(e)   5 K increases with decreasing temperature at zero
magnetic field. Surprisingly, as the magnetic field is applied to the
sample, the reentrant resistivity (r_(e)) suddenly disappears. Further
increase of H gives a shift of T_(c) to lower temperatures without any
appearance of r_(e) below T_(c). A similar RRT behavior at H = 0 is also
observed in sample 3 with a different reentrant temperature _T__re_  - 8
K. For sample 3 the applied magnetic field does not completely suppress
r_(e) as in case of sample 2, but decreases r_(e) with an increase of H.
Competition between the suppression of T_(c) and the decrease of r_(e)
induced by H gives a resistivity minimum at _T_  6.6 K at H = 0.5 T in
sample 3. In contrast to sample 2 and sample 3, the RRT is not found in
sample 1 below T_(c) and in sample 4 a quasi-RRT (RRT without a zero
resistivity state) is observed with the same decreasing behavior of
r_(e) with increasing H. The first sample that had been measured was
sample 2. In that measurement no changes of the RRT behaviors by cooling
or heating the sample with or without the magnetic field across T_(e)
were found with reproducible RRT behaviors. The RRT behaviors didn’t
show any dependencies on the magnetic-field direction or field history
either. Also no hysteresis in _I-V_ curves was observed depending on the
direction of the current flow. So in subsequent measurements on other
SKBO samples (sample 3, sample 4) we measured the samples with random
sequences.

Another peculiar feature is observed in the _I-V_ characteristics of the
samples exhibiting the RRT or quasi-RRT behavior (see Fig. 2). Below
T_(e) an ohmic behavior is first found in the low current region (_I_ 
100 μA). As I increases further, the reentrant voltage sharply decreases
and eventually becomes zero, similar to the H dependence of r_(e) . If
the sample temperature is increased (see the inset of Fig. 2), the
overall magnitude of the reentrant voltage decreases and, in the region
_T__re_< _T_< T_(c) , a zero resistivity state is observed, followed by
the usual ohmic behavior above T_(c) . For sample 1 showing no RRT, the
_I-V_ curves below T_(c), simply follow the general characteristics of a
superconducting sample.16 Namely, the superconductivity disappears and
the sample resistivity increases as the applied current becomes higher.

The temperature dependence of resistivity for the SKBO samples at H = 0
is replotted in Fig. 3. Figure 3 shows that the residual resistivity
obtained by extrapolating _r_(_T_) for the normal state to 0 K increases
monatomically as the behavior

Figure 2: _I-V_ curves of SKBO samples showing the RRT or quasi-RRT
behavior at T = 2 K with H = 0. Inset: _I-V_ curves of sample 3 measured
at various temperatures with H = 0.

Figure 1: Resistive transition curves of our four SKBO samples as a
function of temperature in various H fields.

of the sample below T_(c) changes from a simple superconducting
transition to the RRT and then to the quasi-RRT with an increase of a
ρ(20 K)/ρ(273 K) ratio (see Table 1). Also, sample 1 is found to have a
sharper superconducting transition (ΔT_(c) = 1.3 K) with a smaller ρ(20
K) while sample 4 has a larger ρ(20 K), compared to those of the RRT
samples.

Through the series of measurements on various SKBO samples, we observed
a systematic change from superconducting to the insulating behavior
below T_(c) via the RRT and the quasi-RRT as the normal-state transport
properties of the sample go from metallic to insulating.[15, 16] This
implies a percolating behavior of superconductivity in our system and
the anomalous behaviors below T_(c) are related to the normal-state
transport property of the sample. To analyze the normal-state transport
data of the samples in connection to the RRT or quasi-RRT behaviors, we
used a tunneling percolation model proposed by Pury and Caceres.[17] In
this phenomenological model the electrical behavior of granular
superconductors at low temperatures was investigated by considering the
random transition rates in a percolating system composed of a metallic
junction between two metallic grains and a tunneling junction due to an
insulating barrier between grains. The normal-state transport property
is mainly governed by the concentration of the metallic bond p and the
temperature dependence of the transition rates. The tunneling
percolation model predicts the temperature dependence of resistance in a
disordered media to behave as R(T) = CT/w_(eff), where w_(eff) is an
effective transition rate for carriers and C is a constant depending on
the carrier properties and geometrical form factors of the sample. If we
assume p in the samples showing the RRT or quasi-RRT is near the
percolation threshold limit p ∼ p_(c), then w_(eff) calculated from the
effective-medium approximation at p = p_(c) will be cesses in a
fluctuation-induced tunneling model given by Sheng.[20] In Sheng’s
theory for fluctuation-induced tunneling, the tunneling process between
metallic islands is governed by the change of the disordered insulating
barrier due to thermal fluctuation. Here, U indicates the temperature
scale for the fluctuations, _U_/_T_0 is proportional to the barrier size
in the zero-temperature limit, and C2 is a constant. Substituting
_w_s_(_T_) and _w_t_(_T_) into Eq. (1) and using _R_(_T_) = R0 +
_CT_/_w_eff_ [we add a constant resistance term R0 to _R_(_T_) where R0
is associated with scattering in the zero-temperature limit], we have
the temperature dependence of resistivity for our system as

$$\rho(T) = \rho_{0} + C_{3}T^{3/2}\left[ {\exp}\left( {\frac{U}{T + T_{0}}} \right) \right\rbrack^{1/2}.$$

Fitting parameters of the SKBO samples displaying the RRT or quasi-RRT
are given in Table I. The increase of U and r0 follows a slight change
of the temperature dependence of resistivity in the normal state from
metallic (sample 2) to semiconducting (sample 4). In connection with the
RRT behavior below _T_re, this increase corresponds to an increase of
_T_re for the sample. The magnitude of _r_re(_T_) for each sample can be
related to the relative barrier size estimated from _U_/_T_0. The
investigation on the normal-state resistivity data using the tunneling
percolation model indicates that the role of disordered junction
barriers between superconducting grains is important in the observed RRT
phenomenon. We empirically found that the temperature dependence of
_r_re for H = 0 can be fitted to the following power-law-type equation:

ρ_(re)(T) = α(T_(re) − T)^(β).

Interestingly, the fitting value of b shown in Table I seems to be
proportional to _U_/_T_0 obtained from the normal-state analysis.

In regard to I dependencies of the RRT, we first consider the
current-induced self-magnetic field effect. The self-magnetic field
(_H__self_) generated by the transport current (_I_ = 100 _m_A) in the
resistance measurements is estimated to be approximately 0.001 G by
using the equation _H__self_ = 1.25_I_/_C__r_ where C_(r), the
circumference of the sample, is about 1 mm from the typical size of the
measured samples (1.5 mm x 0.875 mm x 0.25 mm).[21] The estimated
_H__self_ is found to be very small compared to the applied external
magnetic field. If the magnetic field (_H_0), which limits the Josephson
critical current flowing across the grain boundary, is further
considered, given an average grain size L 0.5 _m_m from the SEM image of
the sample and the penetration depth l_(L) 0.5 _m_m, the equation H0_
2.07 x 10-7/(l_(L)) yields H0 40 G.[21] This generally gives an order of
103 A/cm2 as the critical current across the junction barriers. Actually
the above calculations of _H__self_ and H0 are strictly based on the
general Josephson coupling, which becomes weaker by applying H or
increasing I. This is opposite to the observed RRT behaviors in our
sample, suggesting a different coupling mechanism between the
superconducting grains in the RRT observed region. The observed
current-controlled negative differential resisitivity (NDR) below _T_re
reminds us of the NDR behavior in a percolating network system. A simple
phenomenological model introduced by Peinke _et al._[22] could explain
the NDR behavior observed in other systems in terms of a percolative
formation of low-resistivity phases induced by _I_[23, 24] If we assume
that a percolative formation of a resistive path gives _r_re below
_T_re, then the I dependence of the RRT indicates an unusual increase of
the superconducting domains with a decrease of resistivity domains due
to I.

Since the observation of recovery of the superconducting state by
applying H or increasing I is the first observation to our knowledge, no
definite physical models are available at present to explain the
observed RRT phenomena and it only allows us to discuss possible
physical origins of this qualitatively. The analysis on the normal-state
transport properties and _I_-_V_ characteristics causes us to consider
the role of disordered insulating barriers below _T_re in H and I
dependencies. Obviously the disordered insulating barrier is not a
simple insulating barrier expected in the Josephson weak link model used
to explain the previously reported RRT.[2] In our case the barriers
between superconducting grains become transparent by applying H or
increasing I, leading the supercurrent to flow. It doesn’t mean that the
general Josephson coupling mechanism at weak links is entirely
inapplicable to our case, because at high magnetic field and transport
current regions the general Josephson coupling that breaks down by
applying H or increasing I was indeed observed. So the barriers between
superconducting grains in our system would be a combination of normal
Josephson tunneling junctions and anomalous tunneling junctions
responsible for the observed RRT phenomena. For the anomalous tunneling
junction that becomes superconducting by H or I, disorder in the
insulating barrier seems to be important specifically. The disorder in
this tunneling barrier could be related to _U_/_T_0 from the
normal-state transport data, which was proportional to the magnitude of
_r_re(_T_). If disorder in tunneling barriers is considered, one might
speculate possible localized spin states induced by disorder in the
Josephson tunneling barrier.[11, 16] The localized spin state in the
tunneling barrier can be regarded as one form of the p junctions.[25]
The p junction, which is often called "the negative Josephson junction,"
proposed by Bulaevskii, Kuzii, and Sobyanin,[26] is the Josephson
junction with a spin-flip tunneling between superconducting grains. The
occurrence of the p junction naturally generates a normal state, which
results from the breakdown of the normal superconducting weak links
around the p contact.[27] At a certain H the spin-flip tunneling process
can be inhibited by the external magnetic field and the normal Josephson
junction increases with a decrease of the _p_-junction portion,
recovering the bulk superconductivity. In addition, it was demonstrated
that the p junctions can be produced by correlation effects up to an
order of 50

There could be other possibilities for understanding our data. For
example, it might be possible to consider a localization effect in the
RRT behavior. The reduction of ρ_(re) by applying H resembles the
negative magnetoresistance in the weak-localization theory in disordered
systems. [29] In a granular superconductor, if the localization length
is assumed to be larger than the Josephson coherence length at low
temperatures below _T_(c)_, charges might be localized giving a ρ_(re)
that decreases with applied H. However, the negative magnetoresistance
by weak localization would have to be observed in the normal state by
applying a high H at _T<T_(c)_, [30] which is not the case in our
observations. Also there has been a prediction of the reentrant
superconductivity in granular superconductors with a small grain size of
the order of 100 $\AA$. [31] The reentrant normal state below _T_(c)_ is
expected when the Coulomb charging energy is stronger than the Josephson
coupling energy at low temperature. In consideration of the charging
energy in our observations we found that the grain size of our samples
(0.5 μm in the SEM image) is much larger than the situation where the
charging energy in the insulating barrier becomes important. The H
dependence of the observed RRT in our samples, however, suggests a
decrease of the electrostatic charging energy by the magnetic field
resulting in the appearance of superconductivity, which looks to be
difficult to consider. This again indicates the importance of the role
of insulating barriers in the observed RRT phenomena.

After measuring the magnetotransport data of our samples, the magnetic
susceptibility of each sample was checked using a dc superconducting
quantum interference device magnetometer. In the zero-field-cooled mode
measurement all samples showed a diamagnetic signal at _H_>50 G without
any paramagneticlike signal in the normal state, thus confirming the
absence of any magnetic impurities. Interestingly, in sample 2, a
gradual decrease of the diamagnetic signal (an appearance of the
paramagnetic signal) was observed below _T∼_4.5 K at _H≤_50 G, which
recovers the simple diamagnetism by applying _H>_50 G. [11] The
investigation on this anomalous behavior of the diamagnetic signal with
different SKBO samples is ongoing.

In summary, we have observed the anomalous RRT phenomenon which is the
recovery of a zero resistivity superconducting state by applying a
magnetic field or increasing the electrical transport current in certain
SKBO compounds. From a comparison of the magnetotransport data of
various samples, the RRT is found to be closely related to the
normal-state transport properties. A phenomenological analysis on the
normal-state transport properties along with the RRT behaviors suggests
that the observed H and I dependencies of ρ_(re) might originate from
unusual characteristics of the disordered tunneling barriers between
superconducting grains.

This work was supported by the Korea Research Foundation
(2000-042-D00032) in the Ministry of Education (MOE), Korea.

## References

* [1] H. Eisaki, H. Takagi, R. J. Cava, B. Batlogg, J. J. Krajewski, W.
F. Peck, Jr., K. Mizuhashi, J. O. Lee, and S. Uchida, Phys. Rev. B
**50**, 647 (1994). * [2] T. H. Lin, X. Y. Shao, M. K. Wu, P. H. Hor, X.
C. Jin, C. W. Chu, N. Evans, and R. Bayazick, Phys. Rev. B **29**, 1493
(1984). * [3] U. Welp, W. K. Kwok, G. W. Crabtree, H. Claus, K. G.
Vandervoort, B. Dabrowski, A. W. Mitchell, D. R. Richards, D. T. Mark,
and D. G. Hinks, Physica C **156**, 27 (1988). * [4] T. Suzuki, T.
Tsuboi, H. Takaki, T. Nizusaki, and T. Kusumoto, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn.
**52**, 981 (1983). * [5] M. Akinaga, Physica C **282-287**, 1139
(1997). * [6] Y. Zhao, G. D. Gu, G. J. Russell, N. Nakamura, S. Tajima,
J. G. Wen, K. Uehara, and N. Koshizuka, Phys. Rev. B **51**, 3134
(1995). * [7] G. D. Gu, Y. Zhao, G. J. Russell, N. Nakamura, S. Tajima,
K. Uehara, and N. Koshizuka, Phys. Rev. B **49**, 15 424 (1994). * [8]
H. W. Meul, C. Rossel, M. Decroux, O. Fisher, G. Remenyi, and A. Briggs,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **53**, 497 (1984). * [9] V. Jaccarino and M. Peter,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **9**, 290 (1962). * [10] D. C. Kim, J. S. Kim, S. J.
Joo, G. T. Kim, C. Bougerol-Chaillout, S. M. Kazakov, J. S. Pshirkov, E.
V. Antipov, and Y. W. Park, J. Low Temp. Phys. **117**, 1205 (1999). *
[11] D. C. Kim, J. S. Kim, S. J. Joo, G. T. Kim, C. Bougerol-Chaillout,
S. M. Kazakov, J. S. Pshirkov, E. V. Antipov, and Y. W. Park, Physica C
**341-348**, 797 (2000). * [12] S. M. Kazakov, C. Chaillout, P. Bordet,
J. J. Capponi, M. Nunez-Regueiro, A. Rysak, J. L. Tholence, P. G.
Radaelli, S. N. Putilin, and E. V. Antipov, Nature (London) **390**, 148
(1997). * [13] R. J. Cava, B. Batlogg, J. J. Krajewski, R. Farrow, L. W.
Rupp, Jr., A. E. White, K. Short, W. F. Peck, and T. Kometani, Nature
(London) **332**, 28 (1988). * [14] Shiyou Pei, J. D. Jorgensen, B.
Dabrowski, D. G. Hinks, D. R. Richards, W. W. Mitchell, J. M. Newsam, S.
K. Sinha, D. Vaknin, and A. J. Jacobson, Phys. Rev. B **41**, 4126
(1990). * [15] D. C. Kim, J. S. Kim, H. R. Kang, Y. W. Park, J. S.
Pshirkov, and E. V. Antipov, J. Supercond. **14**, 341 (2001). * [16] D.
C. Kim, J. S. Kim, H. R. Kang, G. T. Kim, J. S. Pshirkov, E. V. Antipov,
and Y. W. Park, Proc. SPIE **4058**, 321 (2000). * [17] Pedro A. Pury
and Manuel O. Caceres, Phys. Rev. B **55**, 3841 (1997). * [18] S. F.
Lee, J. Y. T. Wei, H. Y. Tang, T. R. Chien, M. K. Wu, and W. Y. Guan,
Physica C **209**, 141 (1993). * [19] C.-J. Liu, H. Y. Tang, C. K.
Subramaniam, and A. B. Kaiser, Physica C **282-287**, 1271 (1997). *
[20] Ping Sheng, Phys. Rev. B **21**, 2180 (1980). * [21] R. B.
Stephens, Cryogenics **29**, 399 (1989). * [22] J. Peinke, D. B. Schmid,
B. Rohricht, and J. Parisi, Z. Phys. B: Condens. Matter **66**, 65
(1987).

* [23] Ch. Karakotsou, J. A. Kalomiros, M. P. Hanias, A. N.
Anagnostopoulos, and J. Spyridelis, Phys. Rev. B **45**, 11 627
(1992). * [24] G. Cao, J. Bolivar, S. McCall, J. E. Crow, and R. P.
Guertin, Phys. Rev. B **57**, 11 039 (1998). * [25] B. I. Spivak and S.
A. Kivelson, Phys. Rev. B **43**, 3740 (1991). * [26] L. N. Bulaevskii,
V. V. Kuzii, and A. A. Sobyanin, Pis’ma Zh. Eksp. Teor. Fiz. **25**, 314
(1977) [JETP Lett. **25**, 290 (1977)]. * [27] F. V. Kusmartsev, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **69**, 2268 (1992). * [28] A. V. Rozhkov and Daniel P.
Arovas, Phys. Rev. Lett. **82**, 2788 (1999). * [29] P. A. Lee and T. V.
Ramakrishnan, Rev. Mod. Phys. **57**, 287 (1985). * [30] M. Giannouri,
E. Rocofyllou, C. Papastaikoudis, and W. Schilling, Phys. Rev. B **56**,
6148 (1997). * [31] E. Simanek, Phys. Rev. B **25**, 237 (1982).
