# _T_c for non-_s_-wave pairing superconductors correlated with
coherence length and effective mass

G. G. N. Angilella,¹ N. H. March,^(2, 3) and R. Pucci

¹Dipartimento di Fisica e Astronomia, Universita degli Studi di Catania,
and Istituto Nazionale per la Fisica della Materia,

Sezione di Catania, Corso Italia, 57, 1-95129 Catania, Italy

²Oxford University, Oxford, England

³Department of Physics, University of Antwerp (RUCA), Antwerp, Belgium

Received 7 July 2000

###### Abstract

For unconventional heavy fermion superconductors, typified by UBe₁₃, the
superconducting transition temperatures T_(c) are shown to correlate
with a characteristic energy ℏ²/(m * ξ²), m* being the effective mass,
and ξ the coherence length. For four of the six materials for which
T_(c), m*, and ξ are available, k_(B)T_(c)∼20ℏ²/(m * ξ²). One heavy
fermion material, UPd₂Al₃, reveals a tendency for the above linear
behavior to saturate at substantially larger ℏ²/(m * ξ²) than for UBe₁₃.
The sixth material considered, URu₂Si₂, falls between UBe₁₃ and UPd₂Al₃.
To embrace _d_-wave pairing in cuprates, a log-log plot reveals that
k_(B)T_(c)∼ℏ²/(m * ξ²), but more materials for which m* and ξ are
measured will be required to substantiate the correlation in these
high-T_(c) substances.

Although heavy fermion superconductors were discovered more than a
decade and a half ago,[1, 2] interest in their physical properties
remains considerable. Thus, in a very recent study,[3] the differential
conductivity of a UBe₁₃-Au junction has been measured in both
superconducting and normal states, yielding in particular an energy gap
Δ in this unconventional superconductor very different quantitatively
from a BCS relation which at T = 0 reads 2Δ/k_(B)T_(c) = 3.5. This
figure is "enhanced" to around 7 from this experiment on UBe₁₃. We shall
return briefly, at the end of this report, to this matter of the energy
gap in this non-s-wave heavy fermion superconductor. However, the main
focus of the present investigation is to address the question of whether
there is a ’natural’ energy scale on which to measure k_(B)T_(c) in
non-s-wave superconductors. Then, leaving aside l(l + 1) in the
eigenvalues of L²/ℏ², with L the orbital angular momentum of a
superconducting Cooper pair, a characteristic energy ϵ_(c) would appear
to be

$$\bm{\epsilon}_{c} = \frac{\hbar^{2}}{m*\!l_{c}^{2}},$$
(1)

where m* is the effective mass, while l_(c) is a characteristic length
that remains to be chosen. That m* should enter inversely in determining
the scale of k_(B)T_(c) was clearly recognized in the study of Uemura
_et al._,[4] who did not, however, address the question of the length
l_(c) below T_(c). In the superconducting state of the heavy fermion
materials which we first focus on below, it seemed to us that the
natural physical choice was to take for l_(c) in Eq. (1) the coherence
length ξ. We have then found in the available literature simultaneously
data on T_(c), m*, and ξ for the six heavy fermion systems listed in
Table 1 (see Ref. [5]). These are the data we have therefore used to
construct Fig. 1, in which k_(B)T_(c) has been plotted against the
"independent variable" ℏ²/(m * ξ²) from Eq. (1) with l_(c) = ξ. That
there is a marked correlation between these two energies (both measured
in meV in Fig. 1) is clear. The dashed curve, though mainly plotted as a
guide to the eye, is represented over the range shown by the power
series in ϵ_(c)

k_(B)T_(c) = b ϵ_(c)(1 + c₁ϵ_(c) + c₂ϵ_(c)²) + 𝒪(ϵ_(c)³),
(2)

where b = 22. For the three materials shown in Fig. 1 with the lowest
T_(c) values, k_(B)T_(c)⋅[ℏ²/(m * ξ²)] = 20, as follows from the first
term in the fitting series Eq. (2).

Below we shall briefly compare and contrast this linear behavior at low
T_(c) with that for the _d_-wave pairing in the cuprates. However, the
further point to be stressed is that the material UPd₂Al₃, though having
somewhat different coherence lengths in different crystal directions,
shows a clear tendency of the (assumed) relation

$$k_{B}T_{c} = f_{\rm HF}\!\left(\frac{\hbar^{2}}{m*\xi^{2}}\right)$$
(3)

to go from the linear form ∼ 20ℏ²/(m * ξ²) at small argument to
$f_{\rm HF}$→ const in these heavy fermion (HF) materials as the
independent variable ϵ_(c) is increased by a factor of about 5 from
UBe₁₃ to UPd₂Al₃.

l c c c c c c & UPt₃ & UBe₁₃ & UNi₂Al₃ & UPd₂Al₃ & URu₂Si₂ & CeCu₂Si₂
T_(c) [K] & 0.55 & 0.9 & 1.0 & 2.0 & 1.2 & 0.7
ξ [Å] & 100(∥ab) & 120(∥c) & 100 & 240 & 85 & 100(∥ab) & 90
m*/m_(c) & 180 & 260 & 48 & 66 & 140 & 380

Table 1: Selected physical properties for six heavy fermion materials
[from Heffner and Norman (Ref. [5]]).

In light of the above findings for the unconventional heavy fermion
superconductors considered in Table 1 and Fig. 1, it seemed of obvious
interest to compare and contrast their behavior with corresponding
results for the high-T_(c) cuprates, known also to have non-s-wave
pairing. But then the difficulty comes up that for only very few
cuprates are data simultaneously available on the same materials for
T_(c) , m^(*), and ξ, entering the correlation proposed in this report.

Nevertheless, in spite of the sparseness of the data, we felt it of
obvious interest to show in Fig. 2 a log-log plot in which k_(B)T_(c) is
again displayed versus ℏ²/(m^(*)ξ²). The plot is, to our mind,
sufficiently encouraging to warrant further work in measuring both m^(*)
and ξ in other high-T_(c) cuprates. The striking difference from the
heavy fermion cases is that now, accepting the wide spread of data,
k_(B)T_(c) ∼ ℏ²/(m^(*)ξ²), which is, roughly speaking, one order of
magnitude different from the linear limit of Eq. (2) for the heavy
fermion materials.

To return briefly to the new measurements of Walti _et al._[3] on the
energy gap Δ(T) in UBe₁₃, we have plotted their data in somewhat
unorthodox form in Fig. 3, with T/T_(c) on the ordinate, and Δ/Δ(0) on
the abscissa. Furthermore we have, admittedly with some small degree of
arbitrariness, extrapolated the measured data to pass through twice the
BCS value. What we wish to emphasize, in the present context of
non-s-wave pairing superconductors, is that the renormalized BCS curve
near T = 0 can be referred to as a ’-gapped" phase, whereas the
experimental curve shows excitations (gapless as well as gapped)
characteristic of non-s-wave pairing. We expect, near T = T_(c) , that
the difference between the BCS and the UBe₁₃ curves will reflect in
general terms the specific heat low-temperature behavior in the normal
state of UBe₁₃ , namely,

C_(V)  = γT + B T³,
(4)

but it would take us well beyond the scope of the present study to
attempt further, quantitative analysis on this issue.

In summary, motivated by recent continuing interest[3] in heavy fermion
materials such as UBe₁₃ and related compounds,[6] we have reopened the
question as to whether there is a ’natural’ energy scale on which to
measure k_(B)T_(c) . For the heavy fermion cases with the lowest
transition temperatures, we have presented evidence that
k_(B)T_(c)∼ 20ℏ²/(m^(*)ξ²) in these non-s-wave pairing superconductors.
However, over a wider range of ℏ²/(m^(*)ξ²) for these materials, the
form Eq. (3) has been proposed, where
$f_{\rm HF}(x)\!\rightarrow\!$const for values of x substantially larger
than the value for, say, UBe₁₃–a situation which occurs in fact for
UPd₂Al₃. Figure 2 shows the non-s-wave cuprates on the same diagram as
the heavy fermion superconductors, and now, roughly speaking, we are in
a regime where k_(B)T_(c) and ℏ²/(m^(*)ξ²) are the same to better than
order of magnitude.

One of us (N.H.M.) made his contribution to the present Report during a
visit to the Physics Department, University of Catania, in the year
2000. Thanks are due to the Department for the stimulating environment
and for much hospitality. N.H.M. also wishes to thank Professor V. E.
Van Doren for his continuous interest and support. G.G.N.A. acknowledges
support from the EU through the FSE program.

Figure 2: log-log plot of Fig. 1, but now with high-T_(c) cuprates in
the top right-hand corner [data taken from Poole _et al._ (Ref. 7)], in
addition to heavy fermion data of Fig. 1 (here collectively marked by
HF). For the cuprates, use has been made of the coherence length ξ_(ab)
.

Figure 1: Thermal energy k_(B)T_(c) corresponding to superconducting
transition T_(c) versus characteristic energy ϵ_(c) = ℏ²/(m^(*)ξ²), with
m^(*) the effective mass and ξ the coherence length (see also Table 1).
Six heavy fermion materials are considered. The fitted (dashed) curve is
represented in Eq. (2) and should be regarded mainly as a guide to the
eye.

## References

* [1] D.L. Cox and A. Zawadowski, Adv. Phys. **47**, 599 (1998). * [2]
J.A. Sauls, Adv. Phys. **43**, 113 (1994). * [3] Ch. Walti, H.R. Ott, Z.
Fisk, and J.L. Smith, Phys. Rev. Lett. **84**, 5616 (2000). * [4] Y.J.
Uemura, L.P. Le, G.M. Luke, B.J. Sternlieb, W.D. Wu, J.H. Brewer, T.M.
Riseman, C.L. Seaman, M.B. Maple, M. Ishikawa, D.G. Hinks, J.D.
Jorgensen, G. Saito, and H. Yamochi, Phys. Rev. Lett. **66**, 2665
(1991). * [5] R.H. Heffner and M.R. Norman, Comments Condens. Matter
Phys. **17**, 361 (1996).See also Zb. Koziol, Ph.D. thesis, University
of Amsterdam, The Netherlands, 1994. * [6] V. Martisovits, G. Zarand,
and D.L. Cox, Phys. Rev. Lett. **84**, 5872 (2000). * [7] Ch. P. Poole,
H.A. Farach, and R.J. Creswick, _Superconductivity_ (Academic Press, San
Diego, 1995).
