Temperature-dependent local structure and superconductivity of BaPd₂As₂
and SrPd₂As₂

K. Terashima,^(1,)1 E. Paris,^(2,)2 L. Simonelli,³ E.
Salas-Colera,^(4, 5) A. Puri,⁶ T. Wakita,¹ Y. Yamada,¹ S. Nakano,¹ H.
Idei,¹ K. Kudo,¹ M. Nohara,¹ Y. Muraoka,¹ T. Mizokawa,⁷ T. Yokoya,¹ and
N. L. Saini²

k-terashima@cc.okayama-u.ac.jp ¹Research Institute for Interdisciplinary
Science, Okayama University, Okayama 700-8530, Japan ²Dipartimento di
Fisica, Universita di Roma "La Sapienza" - P. le Aldo Moro 2, 00185
Roma, Italy ³CELLS - ALBA Synchrotron Radiation Facility, Carrer de la
Llumi 2-26, 08290 Cerdanyola del Valles, Barcelona, Spain ⁴Instituto de
Ciencia de Materiales de Madrid, ICMM-CSIC, Sor Juana Ines de la Cruz 3,
28049 Madrid, Spain ⁵Spanish CRG BM25 Spline, ESRF - The European
Synchrotron, 71 avenue des Martyrs, 38043 Grenoble, France ⁶CRG-LISA,
ESRF, 71 avenue des Martyrs, 38000 Grenoble, France ⁷Department of
Applied Physics, Waseda University, Tokyo 169-8555, Japan

Footnote 1: footnotemark:

Footnote 2: footnotemark:

Footnote 3: footnotemark:

Footnote 4: footnotemark:

Received 20 June 2018; published 28 September 2018

###### Abstract

The local structures of 122-type paradigm arsenides, namely BaPd₂As₂ and
SrPd₂As₂, are examined by As K-edge extended x-ray absorption fine
structure measurements to find a possible correlation between the
variation of their superconducting transition temperature and the local
structure. The local atomic distances are found to be consistent with
average distances measured by diffraction techniques. The temperature
dependence of mean square relative displacements reveal that, while
BaPd₂As₂ is characterized by a local As-Pd soft mode, albeit with larger
atomic disorder, SrPd₂As₂ shows anomalous As-Pd correlations with a kink
at ∼160 K due to hardening by raising temperature. We have discussed
implications of these results and possible mechanisms of differing
superconducting transition temperature in relation with the structural
instability.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.98.094525

## I Introduction

Superconductivity in condensed matter generally appears or gets enhanced
by a concomitant suppression of the other orders, recognized as the
interplay between different degrees of freedoms [1, 2]. In such cases,
the knowledge of relation between crystal structure and
superconductivity is of prime importance since this relationship largely
affects other electronic degrees of freedoms. Iron-based superconductors
are a good example in which interplay between structural transition and
superconductivity exists and the structural parameters have direct
interplay with spin, charge, and orbital fluctuations, important for the
superconductivity [3]. Incidentally, such an intriguing interplay is
strictly related to the As chemistry, therefore interaction between
arsenic 4p and iron 3d electrons and bonding of As atoms [4]. The
so-called "122" compounds [5, 6] forming a body-centered tetragonal
ThCr₂Si₂-type structure (space group 1/4/mmm) at room temperature have
been main systems to study these correlations [7, 8]. In general, the
122-type structure exhibits a structural phase transition from the
tetragonal structure to an orthorhombic on cooling [9]. However, some
compounds such as CaFe₂As₂ show other types of structural transition,
namely a collapsed tetragonal (CT) phase transition under small external
pressure, characterized by a discontinuous change in the material’s
lattice parameters and volume [10, 11]. The CT phase is nonmagnetic and
lacks magnetic fluctuations with suppressed superconductivity [11, 12].
The driving mechanism of the CT phase has been attributed to the strong
interlayer interaction through As-As covalent bonding [12, 13].

As a matter of fact, superconductivity also appears in the nonmagnetic
CT phase of 122 materials when Fe atoms are completely substituted by
other metals, although the superconducting transition temperature
(T_(c)) remains relatively low [14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23].
Recently, an interesting relationship between the Debye temperature and
T_(c) has been found in Pd-based 122 type of CT arsenide [23]. The
compounds with lower Debye temperature tend to show higher T_(c). For
instance, BaPd₂As₂ shows superconductivity below ∼3.5 K with the Debye
temperature being ∼140 K while T_(c) of SrPd₂As₂ is ∼1 K with the Debye
temperature of ∼300 K. The estimated specific heat γ values of these
compounds are very close to each other [23], suggesting that the density
of states of the two compounds can be comparable. Hence it has been
discussed that the presence of soft phonon may enhance electron-phonon
interaction (λ) in the phonon-mediated superconductivity. In this
context it should be important to know which local lattice mode may be
important to drive this electron-phonon interaction in these materials.

In this work we report a comparative temperature-dependent study of the
local structure of BaPd₂As₂ and SrPd₂As₂ by means of As K-edge extended
x-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS). We have found a marked
difference in the temperature dependence of the mean square relative
displacements (MSRD) of the As-Pd bond in these two compounds. While the
general trend of Einstein temperature (Θ_(E)) in the two systems is
consistent with that of the Debye temperature, we find that the MSRD of
the As-Pd bond in BaPd₂As₂ can be described by a single Einstein
temperature, whereas that in SrPd₂As₂ shows crossoverlike behavior ∼160
K from lower to higher Einstein temperature. We have also found that,
although the T_(c) of BaPd₂As₂ is more than three times higher than that
of SrPd₂As₂, the static disorder in the latter is much lower than that
in the former. The results are consistent with structural instability
induced phonon softening to trigger strong coupling superconductivity in
BaPd₂As₂.

## II II. Methods

Polycrystalline samples of BaPd₂As₂ and SrPd₂As₂ were synthesized by
heating starting materials in sealed quartz tubes. It is known that
BaPd₂As₂ has three polymorphs, namely ThCr₂Si₂-type, CeMg₂Si₂-type, and
alternately stacked CaBe₂Ge₂- and CeMg₂Si₂-type structures [24, 25].
Among them, ThCr₂Si₂ type exhibits superconductivity [21, 23] while the
CeMg₂Si₂ type does not [23]. In this study, the sample of BaPd₂As₂ with
the ThCr₂Si₂-type structure was selectively synthesized by controlling
the synthesis conditions [23], and a T_(c) value of 3.85 K was evaluated
through the magnetization measurement. On the other hand, the T_(c)
value of SrPd₂As₂ was not evaluated because of its low T_(c) (=0.92 K)
[20].

Arsenic K-edge (11 868 eV) x-ray absorption measurements were performed
at the Spline beamline [26] of the European Synchrotron Radiation
Facility, where the synchrotron radiation was monochromatized using a
double crystal Si(111) monochromator. The spectra were acquired
sequentially on the two samples as a function of temperature in
transmission mode using three ionization chambers mounted in series for
simultaneous measurements on the sample and a reference. Finely powdered
samples of BaPd₂As₂ and SrPd₂As₂ were mixed uniformly in an organic
matrix and pressed into pellets of 13 mm diameter for obtaining the edge
jumps to be about 1. Several absorption scans at each temperature (3-5
scans) were measured to ensure high signal to noise ratio and spectral
reproducibility. The sample temperature during the measurements was
controlled and monitored within an accuracy of ±1 K. As K-edge x-ray
absorption spectra were also measured on CaPd₂As₂ (see the Supplemental
Material [27]), a related compound, using the LISA beamline of the
European Synchrotron Radiation Facility following a similar experimental
approach. The EXAFS oscillations were extracted from the absorption
spectra using standard procedure based on spline fits [28].

## III III. Results

Figure 1 shows the temperature dependence of Fourier transform (FT)
magnitudes of k²-weighted EXAFS oscillations extracted from As K-edge
x-ray absorption spectra measured on BaPd₂As₂ (a) and SrPd₂As₂ (b).
Insets show the corresponding EXAFS oscillations. The data are not
corrected by photoelectron phase shifts and hence represent raw
experimental data. The EXAFS oscillations are visible up to high k range
(∼16 A⁻¹) even at 300 K. In both compounds, the first FT peak appears at
∼2.5 A that corresponds to Pd-As and As-As bonds, and the second peak at
3.2-3.4 A corresponds to As-Ba or As-Sr distance. It is clear from the
figure that the local bond distances in SrPd₂As₂ are shorter than those
in BaPd₂As₂, which is in general agreement with those estimated from
x-ray diffraction measurements [25, 29]. The peaks appearing at ≥ 4 A
would originate from multiple scattering as well as distant atom
contributions. The FT peak amplitudes ≥ 4 A tend to be higher in
SrPd₂As₂ than in BaPd₂As₂, indicating smaller overall disorder in
SrPd₂As₂.

To quantify the local lattice parameters, the measured EXAFS
oscillations were modeled with three shells involving the nearest
neighbor As-Pd, As-As, and As-Ba/Sr distances. The EXAFS modeling was
carried out in the single scattering approximation using the standard
EXAFS equation [28]. The EXCURVE 9.275 code [30] was used for the model
fits in which calculated amplitude and phase factors were used. In the
starting model the structural parameters deduced from x-ray diffraction
measurements were used [25, 29]. In these model fits, the passive
electrons reduction factor S₀² was set to 0.9, while the number of
neighboring atoms N_(i) were fixed to their nominal values (4 for As-Pd,
1 for As-As, 4 for As-Ba/Sr). The photoelectron energy zero (E₀) was
fixed after fit trials on several scans. The fitting k range was

Figure 1: Temperature dependence of Fourier transform magnitudes of
k²-weighted As K-edge EXAFS on (a) BaPd₂As₂ and (b) SrPd₂As₂. Inset
shows the corresponding EXAFS oscillations. The data are not corrected
by the phase shifts.

3.4-16 A⁻¹. The number of independent data points, 2ΔkΔR/π, for the
present EXAFS model fits (ΔR = 2.0 A) was ∼16 in which eventually six
parameters were varied. It should be mentioned that apart from
sequential measurements and the same data treatments, the EXAFS model
fit approach was the same for the two systems for a direct comparison of
the derived physical parameters. The uncertainties in the physical
parameters were determined by creating correlation maps and by analyzing
independent scans. Figure 2 shows the temperature-dependent FT of
k³-weighted As K-edge EXAFS of BaPd₂As₂ (a) and SrPd₂As₂ (b) after phase
shift correction along with the three-shell model fits. The spectra are
displayed as red dots with offset for each temperature, and the vertical
scale of Figs. 2(a) and 2(b) are kept to be the same for a realistic
comparison.

Figure 3 shows the temperature dependence of bond distances from As
atoms for BaPd₂As₂ (a) and SrPd₂As₂ (b). In both compounds, all the bond
distances at room temperature appear in an overall agreement with those
reported by x-ray diffraction [25; 29]. As we change the alkaline earth
metal from Ba to Sr, all bond distances tend to contract. This is
qualitatively reasonable, considering their ionic radius ∼1.61 A for Ba
and ∼1.44 A for Sr in XII coordination [31]. Among three obtained bonds,
the As-As distance showed the largest decrease of about 5

We show in Fig. 4 the temperature dependence of MSRD, where we have
found interesting differences between two materials. While MSRD of As-Pd
bond in BaPd₂As₂ [Fig. 4(a)] monotonically increases by raising
temperature, that in SrPd₂As₂ [Fig. 4(b)] shows a kink structure ∼160 K.
On the other hand, the MSRDs of As-Ba/Sr bonds in two compounds show
similar behavior including their magnitude. For As-As we show the
estimated values only for the highest temperature as a representative
since we found that it has relatively large error partially due to the
small number of neighboring atoms with signal largely overlapped with
As-Pd signal. We have evaluated the Einstein temperatures Θ_(E) of As-Pd
bond using the correlated Einstein model [32]: σ² = σ₀² + σ²(T), where
σ₀² is static configurational disorder and σ²(T) describes the dynamic
part. The obtained Θ_(E) value of As-Pd atomic pairs

Figure 4: MSRDs of As-Pd (red circle), As-As (green triangle), and
As-Ba/Sr (blue square) on (a) BaPd₂As₂ and (b) SrPd₂As₂. Red dotted
lines denote results of the Einstein model fit for As-Pd bond. In (b),
the fit was performed in a temperature range of 20–160 K with the same
Einstein frequency with (a) (220 K). Inset of (b) shows the fit result
with Einstein frequency as a free parameter.

Figure 3: Experimentally determined local bond distances around the As
atom of (a) BaPd₂As₂ and (b) SrPd₂As₂. Inset in (a) shows the crystal
structure.

Figure 2: Fourier transform magnitudes of k³-weighted As K-edge EXAFS on
(a) BaPd₂As₂ and (b) SrPd₂As₂ after phase shift corrections. Red dots
represent experimental data and blue lines show the model fits.

in BaPd₂As₂ was ∼220 K. For SrPd₂As₂, first we tried to fit the
temperature-dependent MSRD of As-Pd using a single Einstein temperature
[see, e.g., inset of Fig. 4(b)] and obtained a value of ∼265 K with
σ₀²∼2.2 × 10⁻³ A², but the fitting was unsatisfactory especially at
low-T side due to the presence of a kink structure in MSRD. Instead, we
have found that the data in the low temperature range (20-160 K) can be
well described by the same Einstein temperature with that of BaPd₂As₂ as
shown in Fig. 4(b). As temperature raises more than ∼160 K, the MSRD of
the As-Pd bond in SrPd₂As₂ deviates from the expected behavior of G_(F)
= 220 K and it turns to a harder local mode. Indeed, the estimated G_(F)
for T> 160 K was ∼295 K. In addition, the evaluated σ₀² values for the
As-Pd correlations were found to be ∼4.5 × 10⁻³ A² for BaPd₂As₂,
∼1.6 × 10⁻³ A² for the low-T part of SrPd₂As₂, and ∼2.9 × 10⁻³ A² for
the high-T part of SrPd₂As₂.

## IV Discussion

Here we discuss the possible implications of the present results. First,
the MSRDs of As-Ba/Sr bonds in two compounds turned out to be quite
similar for the two systems with small differences in the
configurational disorder, larger in BaPd₂As₂. Therefore, the local mode
involving alkaline earth metals may not have a direct impact on
superconductivity of this system. On the other hand, we found two
differences in MSRDs of the As-Pd bonds in BaPd₂As₂ and SrPd₂As₂: (i)
the σ₀², describing static configurational disorder at low T and (ii)
the Einstein temperature in high-T region. It seems that at the local
scale, As-Pd correlations in SrPd₂As₂ goes through a lower G_(E) to
higher G_(E), i.e., a tendency from softer to harder local mode
involving As-Pd correlations. The latter appears consistent with the
measured trend of the Debye temperature by the specific heat. We stress
that the static disorder (σ₀²) in BaPd₂As₂ with T_(c) = 3.85 K is more
than twice that in SrPd₂As₂ with T_(c)∼1 K. Naively one expects that
higher disorder should suppress the transition temperature, but
apparently this is not the case. Therefore, the configurational disorder
may not be coming from any impurity but it should be associated with
some kind of structural instability. Incidentally, as mentioned earlier,
BaPd₂As₂ is known to have polymorphs [23, 24, 25], while SrPd₂As₂
stabilizes in the ThCr₂Si₂ structure. The first-principles calculations
[33] suggest that nonsuperconducting CeMg₂Si₂ type is more stable than
superconducting ThCr₂Si₂-type structure in BaPd₂As₂. The polymorphism is
expected to induce larger configurational disorder and hence softer
As-Pd bonds as described by lower Einstein temperature in BaPd₂As₂. On
the other hand, SrPd₂As₂ does not have such polymorphism but it goes
through a local configurational transition at ∼160 K. Therefore, the
superconductivity in BaPd₂As₂ is likely to be due to structural
instability induced softening, which may lead to a strong
electron-phonon coupling. It should be mentioned that the isostructural
CaPd₂As₂ is superconducting with a T_(c) of 1.27 K and a Debye
temperature of ∼276 K [20], and can be considered intermediate between
BaPd₂As₂ and SrPd₂As₂ systems. The Einstein temperature of As-Pd bond in
CaPd₂As₂, determined by temperature-dependent As K-edge EXAFS, is found
to be ∼250 K (see the Supplemental Material [27]), consistent with the
above arguments. Furthermore, the substitution of phosphorus for arsenic
atoms suppresses the structural transition and raises T_(c) in a sister
compound BaNi₂As_(2 − x)P_(x)[19]. It would be interesting to examine if
a similar mechanism is valid for the increased T_(c) also in
BaNi₂As_(2 − x)P_(x), which has to be clarified in future work.

## V Conclusion

In summary, we have studied the local structure of 122-type
palladium-arsenides with different T_(c)’s. A systematic
temperature-dependent study has permitted us to underline marked
differences in the mean square relative displacement of As-Pd bonds for
both static disorder as well as in bond stiffness determined by the the
related Einstein temperatures. BaPd₂As₂ has a relatively large static
configurational disorder with a single Einstein temperature, while
SrPd₂As₂ contains less static disorder with an anomalous change in the
Einstein temperature, from softer to harder by raising temperature. We
have argued that structural instability in BaPd₂As₂ is the likely reason
for the existence of the soft phonon producing strong-coupling
superconductivity.

## Acknowledgments

We thank ESRF staff for support in the EXAFS data collection. K.T. and
T.W. would like to acknowledge the hospitality at the Sapienza
University of Rome. This research was partially supported by the Program
for Promoting the Enhancement of Research University from Ministry of
Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology (MEXT), Japan, the
Program for Advancing Strategic International Networks to Accelerate the
Circulation of Talented Researchers from the Japan Society for the
Promotion of Science (JSPS) (Grant No. R2705), and JSPS KAKENHI (Grants
No. 15H05886, No. 15K21732, and No.16K05451). This work is a part of the
executive protocol of the general agreement for cooperation between the
Sapienza University of Rome and Okayama University, Japan.

## References

* [1] E. Dagotto, Science **309**, 257 (2005). * [2] D. J. Scalapino,
Rev. Mod. Phys. **84**, 1383 (2012). * [3] H. Kontani and S. Onari,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **104**, 157001 (2010). * [4] M. Nohara and K. Kudo,
Adv. Phys. X **2**, 450 (2017). * [5] M. Rotter, M. Tegel, and D.
Johrendt, Phys. Rev. Lett. **101**, 107006 (2008). * [6] A. S. Sefat, R.
Y. Jin, M. A. McGuire, B. C. Sales, D. J. Singh, and D. Mandrus, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **101**, 117004 (2008). * [7] D. C. Johnston, Adv. Phys.
**59**, 803 (2010). * [8] Q. Si, R. Yu, and E. Abrahams, Nat. Rev.
Mater. **1**, 16017 (2016).

* [9] Q. Huang, Y. Qiu, W. Bao, M. A. Green, J. W. Lynn, Y. C.
Gasparovic, T. Wu, G. Wu, and X. H. Chen, Phys. Rev. Lett. **101**,
257003 (2008). * [10] A. I. Goldman, D. N. Argyriou, B. Ouladdiaf, T.
Chatterji, A. Kreyssig, S. Nandi, N. Ni, S. L. Bud’ko, P. C. Canfield,
and R. J. McQueeney, Phys. Rev. B **78**, 100506(R) (2008). * [11] A.
Kreyssig, M. A. Green, Y. Lee, G. D. Samolyuk, P. Zajdel, J. W. Lynn, S.
L. Bud’ko, M. S. Torikachvili, N. Ni, S. Nandi, J. B. Leao, S. J.
Poulton, D. N. Argyriou, B N. Harmon, R. J. McQueeney, P. C. Canfield,
and A. I. Goldman, Phys. Rev. B **78**, 184517 (2008). * [12] A. I.
Goldman, A. Kreyssig, K. Prokes, D. K. Pratt, D. N. Argyriou, J. W.
Lynn, S. Nandi, S. A. J. Kimber, Y. Chen, Y. B. Lee, G. Samolyuk, J. B.
Leao, S. J. Poulton, S. L. Bud’ko, N. Ni, P. C. Canfield, B. N. Harmon,
and R. J. McQueeney, Phys. Rev. B **79**, 024513 (2009). * [13] K.
Tsubota, T. Wakita, H. Nagao, C. Hiramatsu, T. Ishiga, M. Sunagawa, K.
Ono, H. Kumigashira, M. Danura, K. Kudo, N. Nohara, Y. Muroaka, and T.
Yokoya, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **82**, 073705 (2013). * [14] E. D. Bauer, F.
Ronning, B. L. Scott, and J. D. Thompson, Phys. Rev. B **78**, 172504
(2008). * [15] N. Berry, C. Capan, G. Seyfarth, A. D. Bianchi, J.
Ziller, and Z. Fisk, Phys. Rev. B **79**, 180502(R) (2009). * [16] D.
Hirai, T. Takayama, R. Higashinaka, H. Agura-Katori, and H. Takagi, J.
Phys. Soc. Jpn. **78**, 023706 (2009). * [17] F. Ronning, E. D. Bauer,
T. Park, S.-H. Baek, H. Sakai, and J. D. Thompson, Phys. Rev. B **79**,
134507 (2009). * [18] D. Hirai, F. von Rohr, and R. J. Cava, Phys. Rev.
B **86**, 100505(R) (2012). * [19] K. Kudo, M. Takasuga, Y. Okamoto, Z.
Hiroi, and M. Nohara, Phys. Rev. Lett. **109**, 097002 (2012). * [20] V.
K. Anand, H. Kim, M. A. Tanatar, R. Prozorov, and D. C. Johnston, Phys.
Rev. B **87**, 224510 (2013). * [21] Q. Guo, J. Yu, B.-B. Ruan, D.-Y.
Chen, X.-C. Wang, Q.-G. Mu, B.-J. Pan, G.-F. Chen, and Z.-A. Ren,
Europhys. Lett. **113**, 17002 (2016). * [22] X.-C. Wang, B.-B. Ruan, J.
Yu, B.-J. Pan, Q.-G. Mu, T. Kiu, G.-F. Chen, and Z.-A. Ren, Supercond.
Sci. Technol. **30**, 035007 (2017). * [23] K. Kudo, Y. Yamada, T.
Takeuchi, T. Kimura, S. Ioka, G. Matsuo, Y. Kitahama, and M. Nohara, J.
Phys. Soc. Jpn. **86**, 063704 (2017). * [24] A. Mewis, Z. Naturforsch.
B **39**, 713 (1984). * [25] A. Mewis, Z. Anorg. Allg. Chem. **536**, 7
(1986). * [26] G. R. Castro, J. Synchrotron Rad. **5**, 657 (1998). *
[27] See Supplemental Material at
http://link.aps.org/supplemental/10.1103/PhysRevB.98.094525 for the
results of As K-edge x-ray absorption measurements on CaPd₂As₅. * [28]
G. Bunker, _Introduction to XAFS_ (Cambridge University Press,
Cambridge, 2010). * [29] W. K. Hofmann and W. Jeitschko, Monatsh. Chem.
**116**, 569 (1985). * [30] S. J. Gurman, J. Synchrotron. Rad. **2**, 56
(1995). * [31] R. D. Shannon, Acta Crystallogr. **32**, 751 (1976). *
[32] E. Sevillano, H. Meuth, and J. J. Rehr, Phys. Rev. B **20**, 4908
(1979). * [33] I. R. Shein, S. L. Skornyakov, V. I. Anisimov, and A. L.
Ivanovskii, J. Supercond. Novel Magn. **27**, 155 (2014).
