# Superconductivity induced by spark erosion in ZrZn₂

E. A. Yelland, S. M. Hayden, and S. J. C. Yates

H. H. Wills Physics Laboratory, University of Bristol, Tyndall Avenue,
Bristol BS8 1TL, United Kingdom

C. Pfleiderer, W. Uhlarz, R. Vollmer, and H. v. Lohneysen

Physikalishes Institut, Universitat Karlsruhe, D-76128 Karlsruhe,
Germany

N. R. Bernhoeft

DRFMC-SPSMS, CEA Grenoble, F-38054 Grenoble, Cedex 9, France

R. P. Smith and S. S. Saxena

Cavendish Laboratory, University of Cambridge, Madingley Road, Cambridge
CB3 0HE, United Kingdom

N. Kimura

Center for Low Temperature Science, Tohoku University, Sendai, Miyagi
980-8578, Japan

###### Abstract

We show that the superconductivity observed recently in the weak
itinerant ferromagnet ZrZn₂ [C. Pfleiderer _et al._, Nature (London)
**412**, 58 (2001)] is due to remnants of a superconducting layer
induced by spark erosion. Results of resistivity, susceptibility,
specific heat, and surface analysis measurements on high-quality ZrZn₂
crystals show that cutting by spark erosion leaves a superconducting
surface layer. The resistive superconducting transition is destroyed by
chemically etching a layer of 5 μm from the sample. No signature of
superconductivity is observed in ρ(T) of etched samples at the lowest
current density measured, J =675 A m⁻², and at T≈45 mK.
Energy-dispersive x-ray analysis shows that spark-crodted surfaces are
strongly Zn depleted. The simplest explanation of our results is that
the superconductivity results from an alloy with higher Zr content than
ZrZn₂.

2005 29 December 2005 29 December 2005 29 December 2005 29 December 2005
29 December 2005 29 December 2005 29 December 2005 29 December 2005 29
December 2005

## I Introduction

Ferromagnetism in the cubic Laves compound ZrZn₂ was first discovered by
Matthias and Bozorth [1] in 1958. Since this time, ZrZn₂ has attracted
considerable theoretical and experimental attention. In particular, some
authors have suggested that metals which are close to a ferromagnetic
instability at low temperatures, such as ZrZn₂, may exhibit magnetically
mediated p-wave superconductivity [2, 3]. In principle, ZrZn₂ is an
ideal material in which to search for such p-wave superconductivity
because it can be driven into the paramagnetic state by application of
relatively modest pressures [4]. However, until recently, experiments
failed to find any evidence for superconductivity in ZrZn₂[5, 6, 7, 8].

Signatures of weak superconductivity were recently reported in the
magnetic and transport properties of ZrZn₂[9]. In this paper, we show
that spark erosion, a standard procedure for cutting metallic samples,
can produce a superconducting surface layer on ZrZn₂ at ambient
pressure. The samples used in the present work are from the same ingot
as those used in Ref. [9] and have residual resistance ratios (RRR’s) as
high as 105.

## II Experimental Details

ZrZn₂ melts congruently at 1180 ^(∘) C [10, 11]. At this temperature
zinc has a vapor pressure of about 10 bars and is an aggressive flux.
Thus we chose to grow ZrZn₂ by a directional cooling technique [12].
Stoichiometric quantities of high-purity zone-refined Zr (99.99

All experiments reported here were measured at ambient pressure.
Resistivity measurements were made using a standard ac technique using a
Brookdeal 9433 low-noise transformer and SR850 digital lock-in
amplifier. Most measurements were made at a frequency f=2 Hz. Sample
contacts were made with Dupont 4929 Ag/epoxy. Heat capacity measurements
were made using a long-pulse technique in which the sample was mounted
on a silicon platform connected to a temperature-controlled stage by a
thin copper wire.

Energy-dispersive x-ray (EDX) analysis of sample surfaces was performed
on a Jeol JSM-5600LV scanning electron microscope using a 20 kV incident
electron beam. In order to make quantitative composition estimates, we
recorded EDX spectra from sample surfaces and from elemen tal standards
under identical conditions. All surfaces analyzed, except the
spark-eroded surface, were prepared by polishing with 0.1 μm diamond
lapping film in order to minimize errors due to geometrical effects.

## III Results

### Resistivity

Figure 1 shows the temperature dependence of the resistivity for ZrZn₂
under various conditions and for different sample treatments. In order
to make resistivity measurements, bar-shaped samples were cut from the
ingot by spark erosion using Mo wire. Figure 1(a) shows the ρ(T) curve
for a sample with all surfaces produced by spark erosion. A
superconducting transition is observed with an onset temperature
($T_{\rm SC}$) of about 0.6 K. To test whether the superconductivity is
a bulk property or a property of the spark-eroded surfaces, we then
etched the sample used in Fig. 1(a) in a solution containing 12 parts by
volume of 69

We also investigated the magnetic field dependence of the
superconducting transition in spark-eroded ZrZn₂ samples. Figure 1(d)
shows the resistive transitions measured with a magnetic field applied
perpendicular to the current and parallel to one of the spark-eroded
surfaces; the superconducting anomaly persists to fields μ₀H>0.3 T. At
first glance this implies a surprisingly high critical field to critical
temperature ratio but as we discuss later this is easily explained by
the reduction of the Meissner screening in a layer that is thin compared
to the superconducting penetration depth. Figure 1(f) shows resistivity
results for a Zr film which will be compared with our results on ZrZn₂
below. The film was produced by evaporation of Zr wire on to a glass
substrate under a vacuum of ≈ 10⁻⁵ torr. The film thickness is estimated
as ∼500 nm. Superconductivity persists with in-plane magnetic fields up
to ∼1 T.

### Susceptibility

Figure 2 shows ac susceptibility measurements made on a spark-eroded
sample of ZrZn₂. The susceptometer was calibrated by measuring the
superconducting transition of an indium sample at low frequencies (f =
1.5−5 Hz). The data have not been corrected for the effects of the
demagnetization field. Figure 2(a) shows that both the real and
imaginary components of the susceptibility (χ^(′) and χ^(′′)) are large
in the temperature range 0.6 < T < 1.2 K, due to the alignment of
ferromagnetic domains by the applied field. Below the onset temperature
of the spark-erosion-induced superconductivity $T_{\rm SC}$ ≈ 0.6 K, the
real part of the susceptibility begins to drop

Figure 1: (a)–(e) The temperature dependence of the resistivity of ZrZn₂
under various conditions and for different sample treatments. The
current density J is calculated using the bulk cross-sectional area of
the sample. (a) As-grown sample cut by spark erosion (B = 0 T, J = 2000
A m⁻²); (b) as (a) followed by HF-HNO₃ etching (B = 0 T, J = 2000 A
m⁻²); (c) as (b) followed by further spark erosion (B = 0 T, J = 2000 A
m⁻²); (d) the effect of applied field on ρ(T) of a spark-eroded sample;
(e) the dependence on current density of ρ(T) of a spark-eroded sample.
(f) ρ(T, B) for a zirconium film with a magnetic field applied in plane
of film.

and the imaginary part starts to increase. There is a large drop in the
susceptibility Δχ^(′) ≈ 2; however, full Meissner screening
[χ^(′) =  − 1/(1 − N)] is not observed. We estimate the demagnetization
factor of the sample to be N ≈ 0.2. It appears that spark erosion
induces a thin superconducting layer which partially shields the
ferromagnetic core. Figure 2(b) shows the ac susceptibility measured in
the presence of dc magnetic fields up to 2 T for T = 0.05 and 1.6 K. The
difference between the 0.05 and 1.6 K curves shows that some parts of
the sample have critical fields up to 0.9 T.

### Heat capacity

One of the most direct signatures of bulk superconductivity is the
specific heat anomaly. Figure 3 shows the specific heat capacity,
plotted as C(T)/T, for a sample (CS) cut from a region of the ingot next
to that used for the resistivity and susceptibility measurements. As in
previous work,[9] no specific heat capacity anomaly is observed,
strongly suggesting the absence of bulk superconductivity above T = 0.3
K in this sample.

### EDX analysis

We have demonstrated above that spark erosion of ZrZn₂ induces a
superconducting layer. In order to determine the nature of the changes
in the surface layer that cause the behavior shown in Figs. 1(a)-1(c),
we performed spot-mode EDX analysis on a spark-cut surface of a
superconducting ZrZn₂ sample [Fig. 4(b)] and on a polished surface [Fig.
4(a)]. The latter was exposed by cleaving a sample such that the cleave
plane was perpendicular to a spark-cut surface; the cleaved surface was
then polished to ensure that it was flat and perpendicular to the
incident electron beam. We estimate that the spatial resolution of the
EDX probe is ∼1 μm in all directions.[14]

The EDX spectra taken on nominally ZrZn₂ surfaces [see Fig. 4(c)]
contain three characteristic x-ray emission peaks

Figure 4: (Color online) (a) Scanning electron microscope (SEM) image of
a polished ZrZn₂ sample. The polished face is normal to the incident
electron beam; the sample edge, indicated by arrows, is defined by a
spark-cut surface that is approximately parallel to the beam. Thus the
EDX analysis at position C probes a region 1−2 μm below the spark-cut
face. (b) SEM image of a spark-cut sample. (c) Examples of raw EDX
spectra obtained on spark-cut and polished samples, showing Zn depletion
of the spark-cut surface.

Figure 3: The specific heat capacity of ZrZn₂ (sample CS) in zero
applied field measured by a relaxation method. The absence of a heat
capacity anomaly at $T_{\rm SC}$ strongly suggests that the bulk is not
superconducting above 0.3 K.

Figure 2: (a) The temperature dependence of the ac susceptibility of
ZrZn₂ (sample CY). Measurements were made with a modulation field of
amplitude b = 1.2μT and frequency f = 1.17 kHz. The large susceptibility
in the normal state is due to the presence of ferromagnetism. (b) The
field dependence of the ac susceptibility measured with the same
modulation amplitude and frequency as the main figure.

that provide useful information about sample composition: Zn _L_a (1.0
keV) Zr _L_a (2.0 keV), and Zn _K_a (8.6 keV). The spectra in Fig. 4
show at a glance that the Zr peak is enhanced relative to both Zn peaks
on the spark-cut surface compared to the polished surface, suggesting
that spark erosion causes Zn depletion at the surface. We verified this
by quantitative EDX analysis using spectra obtained both on ZrZn2
samples and on pure element standards in identical conditions; for each
peak i, the ratio k_(i) of peak area in the ZrZn2 spectrum to that in
the spectrum of the pure element standard was found. To a first
approximation, the mass concentration of each element in the test sample
is given by these standard-normalized peak areas k_(i). However, it is
well known that corrections [14] must be applied to take account of the
way in which the composition of the test sample affects, e.g., the
electron beam penetration and the absorption of generated x rays.
Therefore we used a standard iterative ZAF (atomic number, absorption
and fluorescence) correction procedure as implemented in the citzaf
package [15] to give accurate atomic concentrations, which are
summarized in Table 1. The quantitative result for the polished surface
is in good agreement with the nominal atomic concentration (i.e., 33.3

## IV Discussion

We have demonstrated that ZrZn2 is very susceptible to surface damage
caused by spark erosion. The spark erosion process causes the surface
layer to be depleted of Zn. Removal of the remaining Zr-rich surface
layer requires an HF-based etch or electropolishing. In the course of
this work we have found that unetched spark-cut regions can easily be
left on the surface if they are protected, for example, by organic
material such as remnants of Ag/epoxy paint contacts. The resulting
samples show resistive downturns like those observed in Ref. [9].
Although the resistivity measurements reported in Ref. [9] were made
with contacts on cleaved surfaces, the current path included remnants of
spark-cut surfaces.

Our EDX measurements show that although the composition of the spark-cut
surface varies in space, it is always more Zr rich than ZrZn2. The high
mobility of Zn in the surface layer of ZrZn2 is likely to be connected
with the low melting point of Zn, T_(m) = 419.6 degC. No regions of
elemental Zr or Zn were observed at the 1 _m_m resolution of the EDX
probe. Thus the simplest explanation for our results is that the
observed downturns in _r_(_T_) and _kh_(_T_) are due to a surface layer
of a superconducting alloy, with higher Zr content than ZrZn2, that is
created by spark erosion. It is unlikely that spark cutting produces
pure Zr because of the high solubility of Zn in Zr. [10, 11] Other
scenarios are also possible. One intriguing possibility is that spark
erosion creates strained layers near the surface which are
superconducting. [16]

A feature of the spark-erosion-induced superconducting layer in ZrZn2 is
its large critical field to critical temperature ratio. It is well known
that the critical field of a superconducting sample is enhanced with
respect to the bulk thermodynamic critical field B_(c) when the sample
is sufficiently small in at least one direction perpendicular to **B**
to allow penetration of magnetic flux. [17] For example, Al films of
thickness 250 A can show _T_SC  = 1.7 K and a critical field of

               Peaks analyzed                                 
  ---------- ------------------- -------- ------------------- --------
     2-5      Zr _L_α_/Zn _K_α_            Zr _L_α_/Zn _L_α_  
   Position        Zr (%)         Zn (%)        Zr (%)         Zn (%)
                  Polished                                    
      A             31.5           68.5          33.0           67.0
      B             31.6           68.4          33.0           67.0
      C             32.2           67.8          33.3           66.7
      D             31.7           68.3          32.8           67.2
                  Spark cut                                   
      E             49.1           50.9          42.2           57.8
      F             47.3           52.7          48.8           51.2
      G             71.1           28.9          67.7           32.3

Table 1: Atomic concentration results of spot EDX analysis on polished
and spark-cut samples of ZrZn2. The position labels correspond to those
in Fig. 4. A ZAF correction procedure using pure element standards was
used to calculate atomic concentrations. Two characteristic Zn peaks, Zn
_K_α (8.6 keV) and Zn _L_α (1.0 keV), were used to give two distinct
concentration estimates; the agreement of the two estimates shows that
the roughness of the spark-cut surface does not prevent a quantitative
analysis. We conclude that the composition of the spark-cut surface
varies but that it is always Zn depleted.

1.9 T.[18] Figure 1(f) demonstrates this effect in a film of Zr: the
critical field of the film is ∼1 T (close to the paramagnetic limit[19,
20]$B_{c}^{\rm para}$=1.84T_(c)) compared to that of bulk Zr, B_(c)≈
0.0047 T.[21] A similar enhancement is likely to occur in spark-eroded
ZrZn₂ at any regions of the superconducting layer that are thin compared
to the penetration depth.

We now comment on the pressure dependence of $T_{\rm SC}$ and
$T_{\rm FM}$. Reference 9 suggested that superconductivity and
ferromagnetism vanished simultaneously at a critical pressure p_(c)∼ 20
kbar. More detailed measurements of $T_{\rm FM}(p)$ have now shown[22]
that ferromagnetism (FM) in fact disappears in a first-order transition
at a lower pressure p_(c)(FM) = 16.5 kbar. Unfortunately no new data are
available for $T_{\rm SC}(p)$, but the results in Ref. 9 show that
13<p_(c)(SC) < 22 kbar. Thus the two p_(c)’s lie close to each other,
but further measurements of $T_{\rm SC}(p)$ would be needed to establish
whether the superconductivity of the surface layer is related to
ferromagnetism in the bulk.

## V Conclusions

In summary, spark erosion induces a superconducting layer in ZrZn₂. If
this surface layer is removed by chemical etching the resistive
superconducting transition disappears. EDX analysis of spark-cut
surfaces shows that they are Zn depleted. The simplest explanation for
the induced superconductivity is that it is due to a change in chemical
composition caused be the spark erosion. It remains to be seen whether
higher quality ZrZn₂ is superconducting at ambient pressure and above.

###### Acknowledgements.

We are grateful to A. Carrington and G. G. Lonzarich for useful
discussions.

## References

* [*] Present address: Physik-Department E21, Technische Universitat
Munchen, D-85747 Garching, Germany. * [2] B. T. Matthias and R. M.
Bozorth, Phys. Rev. **109**, 604 (1958). * [3] A. J. Leggett, J. Phys.
(Paris), Colloq. **39**, C6-1264 (1978). * [4] D. Fay and J. Appel,
Phys. Rev. B **22**, 3173 (1980). * [5] T. F. Smith, J. A. Mydosh, and
E. P. Wohlfarth, Phys. Rev. Lett. **27**, 1732 (1971). * [6] R. L. Falge
and R. A. Hein, Phys. Rev. **148**, 940 (1966). * [7] M. K. Wu, C. W.
Chu, J. L. Smith, A. L. Giorgi, C. Y. Huang, B. T. Matthias, and F. E.
Wang, Solid State Commun. **34**, 507 (1980). * [8] H. G. Cordes, K.
Fischer, and F. Pobell, Physica B & C **107**, 531 (1981). * [9] S. Z.
Huang, M. K. Wu, R. L. Meng, C. W. Chu, and J. L. Smith, Solid State
Commun. **38**, 1151 (1981). * [10] C. Pfleiderer, C. M. Uhlarz, S. M.
Hayden, R. Vollmer, H. von Lohneysen, N. R. Bernhoeft, and G. G.
Lonzarich, Nature (London) **412**, 58 (2001). * [11] R. P. Elliott,
_Constitution of Binary Alloys, First Supplement_ (McGraw-Hill, New
York, 1965). * [12] T. B. Massalski, J. L. Murray, L. H. Bennett, and H.
Baker, _Binary Alloy Phase Diagrams_ (American Society for Metals,
Metals Park, OH, 1986). * [13] L. W. M. Schreurs, H. M. Weijers, A. P.
J. V. Deursen, and A. R. Devroomen, Mater. Res. Bull. **24**, 1141
(1989). * [14] S. J. C. Yates, G. Santi, S. M. Hayden, P. J. Meeson, and
S. B. Dugdale, Phys. Rev. Lett. **90**, 057003 (2003). * [15] V. D.
Scott, G. Love, and S. J. B. Reed, _Quantitative Electron-Probe
Microanalysis_ (Ellis Horwood, New York, London 1995). * [16] J. T.
Armstrong, Microbeam Anal. **4**, 177 (1995). * [17] N. Kimura, M. Endo,
T. Isshiki, S. Minagawa, A. Ochiai, H. Aoki, T. Terashima, S. Uji, T.
Matsumoto, and G. G. Lonzarich, Phys. Rev. Lett. **92**, 197002
(2004). * [18] M. Tinkham, _Introduction to Superconductivity_
(McGraw-Hill, New York, 1975). * [19] M. Strongin and O. F. Kammerer,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **16**, 456 (1966). * [20] A. M. Clogston, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **9**, 266 (1962). * [21] B. S. Chandrasekhar, Appl. Phys. Lett.
**1**, 7 (1962). * [22]_CRC Handbook of Chemistry and Physics_, edited
by D. R. Lide, 85th ed. (CRC Press, Boca Raton, FL, 2004). * [23] M.
Uhlarz, C. Pfleiderer, and S. M. Hayden, Phys. Rev. Lett. **93**, 256404
(2004).
