Energy gap, penetration depth, and surface resistance of MgB₂ thin films
determined by microwave resonator measurements

B. B. Jin* and N. Klein

Forschungszentrum Julich, Institute of Thin Films and Interfaces,
D-52425 Julich, Germany

W. N. Kang

Hyeong-Jin Kim

Eun-Mi Choi

Sung-Ik Lee

National Creative Research Initiative Center for Superconductivity,
Department of Physics,

Pohang University of Science and Technology, Pohang 790-784, Republic of
Korea

T. Dahm

Universitat Tubingen, Institut fur Theoretische Physik, Auf der
Morgenstelle 14, 72076 Tubingen, Germany

K. Maki

Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of Southern California,
Los Angeles, California 90089-0484

###### Abstract

We have measured the temperature dependence of the microwave surface
impedance Z_(x) = R_(x) + iω_(H)ω_(A) of two c-axis oriented MgB₂ films
employing dielectric resonator techniques. The temperature dependence of
the magnetic-field penetration depth λ determined by a sapphire
dielectric resonator at 17.9 GHz can be well fitted from 5 K close to
T_(c) by the standard BCS integral expression assuming the reduced
energy gap D(0)/_k_T_c to be as low as 1.13 and 1.03 for the two
samples. For the penetration depth at zero temperatures, values of 102
and 107 nm were determined from the fit. Our results clearly indicate
the s-wave character of the order parameter. A similar fit of the
penetration depth data was obtained with an anisotropic s-wave BCS
model. Within this model we had to assume a prolate order parameter,
having a large gap value in the c-axis direction and a small gap within
the _ab_ plane. This is in contrast to recent fits of the anisotropic
s-wave model to upper critical-field data, where an oblate order
parameter had to be used, and raises interesting questions about the
nature of the superconducting state in MgB₂. A rutile dielectric
resonator was employed to obtain the temperature dependence of R_(x)
with high accuracy. Below about T_(c)/2, R_(x)(T) − R_(x)(5 K) exhibits
an exponential temperature dependence with a reduced energy gap
consistent with that determined from the penetration depth data. The
R_(x) value at 4.2 K was found to be as low as 19 μΩ at 7.2 GHz, which
is comparable with a high-temperature superconducting copper oxide thin
film.

pacs: 10.1103/PhysRevB.66.104521 + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL REVIEW
B **66**, 104521 (2002)

The question about the energy gap in a particular superconducting
material is of fundamental importance for the understanding of the
relevant pairing mechanism and for the determination of its application
potential. In the case of MgB₂ this question is raised with particular
emphasis.[1] According to initial findings, MgB₂ seemed to comprise a
relatively high transition temperature (around 40 K) with
superconducting properties resembling those of conventional
superconductors rather than those of high-temperature superconducting
(HTS) cuprates.[2-4] Recent experiments have brought some clarifications
about the gap features of MgB₂. According to tunneling spectroscopy,[5,
6] point-contact spectroscopy,[7, 8] photoemission,[9] Raman
scattering,[10] specific heat,[11, 12] and optical conductivity
spectra,[13] there is evidence for an s-wave symmetry of order
parameters with two energy gaps, which are much lower and larger than
the BCS weak-coupling value (Δ/_k_T_c = 1.76). The isotropic two-gap
model or the anisotropic one-gap model are proposed to explain these
observations.[14-18] On a qualitative level, they have similar
properties, and therefore more experimental efforts are required to
distinguish between these two theories.

On the other hand, the results for the temperature dependence of the
penetration depth λ(_T_) are quite controversial. Quadratic, linear, and
exponential dependences were reported in the literature.[19-28]
Quadratic and linear dependence might be an indication for
unconventional superconductivity, similar to HTS cuprates.[29-33]
However, the observation of an exponential dependence would be a clear
indication for a nodeless gap, i.e., for an order parameter comprising
s-wave symmetry. Hence, a very high measurement accuracy for temperature
changes of λ at T ≪ T_(c) for high-quality samples is required to
distinguish between a power-law and an exponential temperature
dependence.

Microwave surface impedance measurements have proved to be the most
sensitive tool to determine the temperature dependence of λ of both
thin-film[29-31] and bulk single-crystal samples.[32] In particular,
they have been employed successfully to attain significant information
about the symmetry of the order parameter in the high-temperature
superconducting cuprates.[33] Therefore, microwave resonator techniques
are most appropriate to be used for high-precision λ(_T_) measurements
on high-quality MgB₂ samples.

Apart from the penetration depth, the microwave surface resistance R_(x)
is an important figure of merit for microwave applications. According to
the BCS theory, the expected exp(−Δ/_k_T_) dependence of R_(x) below
T_(c)/2 might result in low R_(x) values at temperatures attainable with
low-power cryocoolers.

MgB₂ thin films were fabricated using a two-step method by pulsed laser
deposition. The detailed process is described in Refs. [34] and [35].
The films deposited on a plane parallel [1102]-oriented sapphire
substrate of 10×10 mm² in size exhibit a sharp resistive and inductive
transition at transition temperatures up to 39 K (onset temperature of
resistive transition). The film thickness was 400 nm for both samples.
X-ray diffraction analysis indicates a high degree of c-axis orientation
perpendicular to the substrate surface and no detectable amount of MgO
or any other crystalline impurity phases.

The microwave surface impedance was determined using a sapphire
dielectric resonator technique described elsewhere.[36] The cavity with
part of one end plate replaced by the thin-film sample was excited in
the TE_(01, δ) mode under weak-coupling conditions. The unloaded quality
factor Q₀ and resonant frequency was recorded as a function of
temperature. The real part of the effective surface impedance, the
effective surface resistance $R_{s}^{\rm eff}$, was determined according
to

$$R_{s}^{\rm eff}(T) = G\biggl{[}\frac{1}{Q_{0}(T)} - \frac{1}{Q_{\rm Nb}(4.2\;{\rm K})}\biggr{]},$$

with G being a geometrical factor determined by a numerical simulation
of the electromagnetic field distribution in the cavity and
$Q_{\rm Nb}(4.2\;{\rm K}) = 108\,440$, representing the unloaded quality
factor measured by employing a high-quality Nb thin film as the sample.
The notation "effective" indicates an enhancement of R_(s) and λ due to
the film thickness d being of the order of λ.[37] For temperatures below
30 K, Eq. (1) allows for the determination of $R_{s}^{\rm eff}$ with a
systematic error of about 0.1 mΩ, which is due to neglecting the
temperature-dependent background losses of the cavity and the small
microwave losses (R_(s) = 10⁻⁵Ω) of the Nb film.

The temperature dependence of the effective penetration depth was
determined from the temperature dependence of the resonant frequency
f(T), using

$$\delta\lambda^{\rm eff}(T) = - \frac{G}{\pi\mu_{0}}\frac{f(T) - f(5\;{\rm K})}{f^{2}(5\;{\rm K})}$$

with μ₀ = 1.256 × 10⁻⁶ V s/A m. There is a systematic error due to
frequency changes caused by thermal expansion, the temperature
dependence of the skin depth of the cavity wall material (copper), and
the temperature dependence of the dielectric constant of sapphire. To
account for these effects, we recorded the temperature dependence of the
resonant frequency employing a copper sample. From this measurement we
found that the systematic error is less than 1 nm for T≤15 K and less
than 2.5 nm for T≈25 K, which is at least one order of magnitude lower
than the observed temperature changes of λ for our MgB₂ samples.
Therefore, Eq. (2) was applied without correction for our investigation.

In general, microwave resonator measurements do not allow for the
determination of absolute values of λ because the resonator dimensions
are only known with a precision of several ten’s of micrometers.
However, absolute values of λ can be extracted by comparing the measured
temperature dependence with existing models. Of course, it is worth
investigating how to measure the absolute penetration depth of
superconducting thin film.[38]

Two samples (S0716 and S1030) were measured and a similar temperature
dependence of Z_(s) was observed. Figure 1 shows one of the temperature
dependences of $R_{s}^{\rm eff}$ and $\delta\lambda^{\rm eff}$ (S1030)
as determined by Eqs. (1) and (2), respectively. The inset shows the
$R_{s}^{\rm eff}(T)$ data at low temperatures. The full line represents
the resolution limit of our setup. Below 8 K, $R_{s}^{\rm eff}$ is below
the resolution of our technique (100 μΩ).

Figure 2 shows the measured temperature dependence of
$\delta\lambda^{\rm eff}$ determined from f(T) according to Eq. (2) in a
log₁₀(δλ) versus 1/T representation. The horizontal axis is drawn in the
reciprocal form of T. Experiments indicate that the coherence length ξ
and penetration depth λ are about 5 and 100 nm, so that λ/ξ>1.[39] This
is in the reasonably local regime. In this case λ(T) based on the
standard BCS model can be represented as follows:

$$\frac{1}{\lambda^{2}(T)} = \frac{1}{\lambda^{2}(0)}\Biggl{[}1 - 2\int_{\Delta(T)}^{\infty} - \frac{\partial f(\varepsilon)}{\partial\varepsilon} - \frac{\varepsilon}{\sqrt{\varepsilon^{2} - \Delta^{2}(T)}}\,d\varepsilon\,\Biggr{]},$$

Figure 2: log₁₀($\delta\lambda^{\rm eff}$) vs 1/T representation of the
penetration depth data for two MgB₂ samples and a NbN thin film for
comparison. The solid line represents BCS fits with parameters as
described in the text.

Figure 1: Temperature dependence of $R_{s}^{\rm eff}$ and
$\delta\lambda^{\rm eff}$ of a MgB₂ thin film recorded at 17.9 GHz using
a dielectric (sapphire) resonator technique. The inset shows the
$R_{s}^{\rm eff}$(T) values below 8 K and our measurement resolution of
100 μΩ.

with f(e) = [exp (e/kT) + 1]⁻¹ representing the Fermi function and Δ(T)
the temperature dependence of energy gap. The quantities Δ(0)/kT_(c) and
λ(0) are used as fit parameters. For the temperature dependence of
Δ(T)/Δ(0) values tabulated in Ref. [40] were used. The full lines
represent BCS calculations. The $\delta\lambda_{\rm BCS}$ values
calculated from Eq. (3) are multiplied with $\coth(d/\lambda_{\rm BCS})$
to account for the finite film thickness.[37] As a result, the fits of
Eq. (3) to the $\delta\lambda_{\rm eff}(T)$ data (full lines in Fig. 2)
yield Δ(0)/kT_(c) = 1.13, T_(c) = 39 K [Δ(0) = 3.8 meV], and λ(0) = 102
nm for sample S0716; Δ(0)/kT_(c) = 1.03, T_(c) = 36 K [Δ(0) = 3.2 meV],
and λ(0) = 107 nm for sample S1030. According to Fig. 2, there is a very
good agreement between experimental data and the fit curves over the
entire temperature range. The down-turn of the experimental data very
close to T_(c) can be explained by impedance transformations resulting
from the finite film thickness.[37] The nearly linear dependence below
T_(c)/2 in this representation clearly indicates the s-wave nature of
the order parameter, i.e., a finite-energy gap in all directions of the
Fermi surface without nodes. In contrast, a double-logarithmic plot of
the same data indicates that a power law does not fit the data at low
temperatures. For comparison, the same analysis was performed for a NbN
thin film, which is a well-known s-wave superconductor with a relatively
high T_(c) of 15.8 K.[41] The fit parameters are Δ(0)/kT_(c) = 2.3 and
λ(0) = 225 nm, respectively, which is similar to literature data.[42]

The Δ(0)/kT_(c) values obtained for the MgB₂ samples are comparable with
the value of 3.5 ± 0.5 meV determined by scanning tunneling
microscopy.[5] The λ(0) values are also in the range of corresponding
values determined by other techniques.[19; 23; 43; 44] In contrast to
tunneling experiments, which are very sensitive to a possible
modification of the surface, microwave surface impedance measurements
probe almost the entire volume of a thin-film sample with thickness of
the order of λ. Therefore, surface degradation can be ruled out as a
possible reason for the small values of Δ/kT_(c). In fact, some
tunneling data exhibit Δ/kT_(c) values even lower than ours, indicating
that surface degradation effects may play some role there.[3]

The low Δ(0)/kT_(c) (<1.76, BCS weak-coupling limit) is difficult to
understand within a standard BCS-type s-wave theory, but can be
explained by an isotropic two-gap or anisotropic one-gap model.[14; 15;
16; 17; 18] Then, the small gap represents the smallest component of a
double or a strongly anisotropic gap. In this case, the temperature
dependence of λ at T≪T_(c) would be determined by its minimum values,
because λ(T) probes the thermal excitations with the lowest activation
energy. However, the existence of a second large gap should have a
significant impact on λ(T) at higher temperatures. Figure 3 shows the
temperature dependence of λ²(0)/λ²(T), which represents the normalized
superfluid density. As expected from Fig. 2, a very good agreement with
a single-gap BCS theory is achieved for both samples. Similar to the
MgB₂ samples, the NbN film also exhibits a very good agreement over the
entire temperature range. The latter indicates that the effects of
strong coupling on λ(T) can still be modeled by the BCS integral
expression just by assuming Δ/kT_(c) to be larger than the BCS value of
1.76.[45]

For comparison, the power-law dependence
[λ(0)/λ(T)]² = 1 − (T/T_(c))^(n) with n = 2 ("quadratic") and n=4
("two-fluid model") is also depicted in Fig. 3. Above about T_(c)/2,
n = 4 represents a fairly good approximation for the case of strong
coupling, as observed for NbN. However, there is a clear discrepancy
between the experimental data and quadratic dependence, ruling out the
possibility of unconventional superconductivity in MgB₂.

Obviously, our data do not show any indication of a second larger energy
gap. Before discussing the reason, it should be noted that the
penetration depth studied here is in fact the penetration depth in the
ab plane (λ_(ab)) due to the samples being c-axis oriented thin films.
In the two-gap or multigap scenarios, the superconductivity mainly comes
from the boron (B) orbital in the ab plane. The E_(2g) phonons, which
involve in-plane displacements, couple strongly to the B p_(xy)
electronic bands and yield strong electron-phonon interactions.[14; 15]
Two isotropic energy gaps are predicted in the clean limit.[16] One is
associated with a two-dimensional (2D) bonding σ band having a larger
energy gap than the BCS value, i.e., Δ(0)/kT_(c) > 1.76. The other is
associated with 3D bonding and antibonding π bands having a smaller
energy gap less than the BCS value, i.e., Δ(0)/kT_(c) < 1.76. The two
bands have some coupling to give a single T_(c). Hence, the small
Δ(0)/kT_(c) observed in our measurement would correspond to the small
energy gap in the two-gap model, and the superfluid density should be
affected by the large energy gap in the high-temperature region. Another
alternative explanation suggests an anisotropic s-wave order parameter
due to its anisotropic crystal structure.[17] An ellipsoidal energy-gap
function is assumed with a minor axis within the ab plane and a major
axis along the c direction. This model predicts that λ_(ab) is mainly
determined by the small energy gap, which is consistent with our
measurement.

In Fig. 4 we show the calculations of the ab-plane superfluid density
(solid lines) within the anisotropic one-gap

Figure 3: λ²(0)/λ²(T) dependence for the samples shown in Fig. 2. The
full lines represent BCS fits using Δ(0)/kT_(c) as fit parameter. The
predictions by two-fluid model (dashed), quadratic (dashed-dotted)
dependence, and standard BCS model with Δ(0)/kT_(c) = 1.76 (dotted) are
also drawn.

model and compare them with the measurements (symbols) above. Here, an
elliptical angular dependence of the gap having the form

$$\Delta(\vartheta) = \frac{\Delta_{\rm min}}{\sqrt{1-a\,\cos^{2}\vartheta}}$$
(4)

has been used. The angle ϑ is the polar angle with respect to the c
axis, ϑ = 0 corresponding to the c-axis direction and ϑ = π/2
corresponding to the ab-plane direction. The parameter a (0 < a < 1)
determines the anisotropy ratio γ =
$\Delta_{\rm max}$/$\Delta_{\rm min}$=$1/\sqrt{1-a}$. We emphasize that
this parameter is our only fitting parameter. The temperature dependence
of the gap and the gap ratios $\Delta_{\rm max}$(T=0)/kT_(c) and
$\Delta_{\rm min}$(T =0)/kT_(c) are determined from a self-consistent
solution of the anisotropic weak-coupling gap equation. (For more
details, see Refs. [17] and [18]). The best fit to sample S0716 is
obtained for γ= 3.53, yielding a maximum gap
$\Delta_{\rm max}$(T=0)/kT_(c)=3.85 and a minimum gap
$\Delta_{\rm min}$(T=0)/kT_(c)=1.09. For sample S1030, we find γ= 4.61
with $\Delta_{\rm max}$(0)/kT_(c)=4.49 and
$\Delta_{\rm min}$(0)/kT_(c)=0.97. These anisotropy ratios are somewhat
bigger than single-crystal measurements γ= 2.5, [7] but are roughly in
line with an analysis of specific-heat data. [46] Therefore, we can
conclude that our results are consistent with an anisotropic one-gap
model, possessing a small gap in the ab-plane direction.

Within this anisotropic s-wave model we can also calculate the c-axis
superfluid density. For comparison, this quantity is shown in Fig. 4 for
the same parameters (dashed line for sample S0716 and dotted line for
sample S1030). We cannot measure the c-axis penetration depth with our
current experimental setup. Such a measurement would give a valuable
comparison with the prediction of the anisotropic one-gap model and is
left for a future study.

The anisotropy of the penetration depth is related to the anisotropy of
the lower critical field H_(c1) via the relation H_(c1)^(c)/H_(c1)^(ab)=
λ_(c)/λ_(ab). [47] In experimental studies of H_(c1) on MgB₂ it has been
observed that H_(c1) is somewhat bigger in the ab-plane direction than
in the c-axis direction. [48, 49] This is consistent with our findings
here. [50] However, the upper critical field H_(c2) is also bigger in
the ab-plane direction than in the c-axis direction. [48, 89, 51] This
appears to be inconsistent with the H_(c1) anisotropy within the
anisotropic Ginzburg-Landau theory from which one should have expected
H_(c1)^(c)/H_(c1)^(ab)=H_(c2)^(ab)/H_(c2)^(c). [47] In Ref. [18] it has
been shown that this H_(c2) anisotropy can be understood within the
anisotropic s-wave model, if the maximum gap is assumed to lie within
the ab plane and the small gap in the c-axis direction (oblate form of
the gap anisotropy), in contrast to what we need to fit our data here.
Thus, it appears that high-magnetic-field data are governed by a
different anisotropy of the gap than low-field data. This puzzling
discrepancy is reinforced by our experimental findings and can be
neither understood within the isotropic two-band nor within the
anisotropic one-gap model in the present form. A possible solution to
this problem could be a strong field dependence of the anisotropy of the
gap or possibly a fully anisotropic two-gap model. [51] But this remains
speculation at this point and more experimental as well as theoretical
investigations are necessary to clarify this problem.

We want to mention here that our data have been fitted also within the
two-gap model recently by Golubov _et al._[52] In these fits a very
small value of the penetration depth of 39.2 nm had to be assumed, which
is much smaller than the values of the order of 100 nm we determined
here. Golubov _et al._ also showed that within their two-gap model, the
c-axis superfluid density is expected to be smaller than the ab-plane
superfluid density, in contrast to the prediction of our prolate model
here. Besides this being inconsistent with the aforementioned H_(c1)
data, this difference in the c-axis response could be used for an
experimental test between these two models. Thus, a measurement of the
temperature dependence of the c-axis penetration depth would be highly
desirable.

As mentioned above, the measurement accuracy of R_(s) at low temperature
is limited by the resolution of our setup. Sapphire has a low dielectric
constant (∼10) and leads to a large leakage field outside the dielectric
resonator. This field induces currents on the walls of the copper
cavity, leading to a strong limitation of the Q value due to the loss
contribution of copper. In order to achieve a higher resolution, the
sapphire puck was replaced by a rutile dielectric puck of similar
dimensions. [53] Ratile has a high dielectric constant (∼100 in ab
plane) resulting in a lower frequency of 7.18 GHz for the TE_(01, δ)
mode. Due to the high dielectric constant of rutile, the electromagnetic
field is well confined inside the puck. Consequently, the ratio of
losses in the superconducting film and in the copper shield is increased
by a factor of 10. From Eq. (1) we know that a distinguishable
difference of Q values for Nb and MgB₂ thin films is the key to get
accurate R_(s). In our measurement, Q values at 4.2 K for Nb and sample
S1030 are 1.29×10⁶ and 1.20×10⁶, respectively, which yields an R_(s) of
19.4 μΩ. Frequency scaling according to an assumed square law results in
R_(s)= 37.6 μΩ at 10 GHz, which is comparable to high-quality
yttrium-barium-copper-oxide (YBCO) thin film. This value is also in
accordance with data

Figure 4: Fitting of the λ²(0)/λ²(T) dependence to experimental results
(symbols) with an anisotropic s-wave one-gap model (solid lines). The
fitting parameters of the maximum gap $\Delta_{\rm max}$(0)/kT_(c) and
minimum gap $\Delta_{\rm min}$(0)/kT_(c) are 3.85 and 1.09 for sample
S0716, and 4.49 and 0.97 for sample S1030, respectively. The dashed
lines (for sample S0716) and dotted lines (for sample S1030) show the
corresponding c-axis penetration depth temperature dependences expected
from this model.

obtained by another group. [54] However, it should be noted that the
rutile resonator is not suitable for penetration depth measurement due
to a large temperature coefficient of the dielectric constant of rutile.
Figure 5 shows the temperature dependence of
$R_{s}^{\rm eff}$−$R_{s}^{\rm eff}$(5 K) for sample S1030. The linear
behavior at low temperature implies an s-wave symmetry of the order
parameter. The full line corresponds to an exp (−Δ/kT) behavior with a
Δ/kT_(c) value as determined from the penetration depth data. The inset
of Fig. 5 shows the temperature dependence of $R_{s}^{\rm eff}$ below 20
K. In addition, the normal-state resistivity ρ can also be derived from
$R_{s}^{\rm eff}$. As T approaches T_(c) , the penetration depth goes to
infinity. So, the skin depth from normal-state electrons dominates the
high-frequency shielding. Using $R_{s}^{\rm eff}$= 127 mΩ from Fig. 5 at
T very close to T_(c) we obtained $\rho_{s}^{\infty}R_{s}^{\rm eff}$=5
μΩ cm, which is similar with dc measurements. [34] From this we can get
a rough estimate of the mean free path in our films. Taking a Fermi
velocity of v_(F)= 4.8×10⁷ cm/s, [14] a carrier density of n=
6.7×10²²/cm³, and the free-electron mass, we find l≈ 5 nm, which is
about as big as the coherence length. [43] We conclude that our films
are neither in the dirty limit nor in the fully clean limit, but in the
intermediate clean limit.

In conclusion, our experimental finding represents clear evidence for
the existence of a finite gap with Δ(0)/kT_(c) values around 1.1. The
temperature dependence of λ can be well fitted by the BCS theory in the
entire temperature range below T_(c) , together with λ(0) of about 100
nm. This measurement is consistent with an anisotropic one-gap model,
together with an ellipsoidal energy gap function having a minimum within
the ab plane and a maximum along the c axis. Our data can also be fitted
within a two-gap model; however a much smaller penetration depth has to
be assumed. In order to distinguish between these two theoretical
models, measurements of the c-axis penetration depth or the c-axis
microwave response would be desirable. We also pointed out a puzzling
discrepancy between the gap anisotropy as extracted from
high-magnetic-field data on one hand and low-magnetic-field data, as our
penetration depth data, on the other hand. The low R_(s) value (19.4 μΩ
at 4.2 K, 170 μΩ at 20 K and 7.18 GHz) obtained for one sample implies
that MgB₂ is a promising material for microwave applications.

We thank Dr. Z. Wang, KARC Communications Research Lab, Japan, for
providing NbN thin films. The work at Postech was supported by the
Ministry of Science and Technology of Korea through the Creative
Research Initiative Program.

## References

* [*] J. Nagamatsu, N. Nakagawa, T. Muranaka, Y. Zenitani, and J.
Akimitsu, Nature (London) **410**, 63 (2001). * [2] S. L. Bud’ko, G.
Laportt, C. Petrovic, C. E. Cunningham, N. Anderson, and P. C. Canfield,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **86**, 1877 (2001). * [3] G. Karapetrov, M. Iavarone,
W. K. Kwok, G. W. Crabtree, and D. G. Hinks, Phys. Rev. Lett. **86**,
4374 (2001). * [4] H. Schmidt, J. F. Zasadzinski, K. E. Gray, and D. G.
Link, Phys. Rev. B **63**, 220504(R) (2001). * [5] F. Giubileo, D.
Roditchev, W. Sacks, R. Lamy, D. X. Thanh, J. Klein, S. Miraglia, D.
Fruchart, J. Marcus, and Ph. Monod, Phys. Rev. Lett. **87**, 177008
(2001). * [6] P. Senero, C. T. Chen, N. C. Yeh, R. P. Vasquez, L. D.
Bell, C. U. Jung, Min-Seok Park, Heon-Jung Kim, W. N. Kang, and Sung-Ik
Lee, Phys. Rev. B **65**, 012505 (2002). * [7] P. Szabo, P. Samuely, J.
Kacmarcik, T. Klein, J. Marcus, D. Fruchart, S. Miraglia, C. Marcena,
and A. G. M. Jansen, Phys. Rev. Lett. **87**, 137005 (2001). * [8] H.
Schmidt, J. F. Zasadzinski, K. E. Gray, and D. G. Hinks, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **88**, 127002 (2002). * [9] S. Tsuda, T. Yokoya, T. Kiss, Y.
Takano, K. Togano, H. Kito, H. Ihara, and S. Shin, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**87**, 177006 (2001). * [10] X. K. Chen, M. J. Konstantinovic, J. C.
Irwin, D. D. Lawrie, and J. P. Franck, Phys. Rev. Lett. **87**, 157002
(2001). * [11] F. Bouquet, R. A. Fisher, N. E. Phillips, D. G. Hinks,
and J. D. Jorgensen, Phys. Rev. Lett. **87**, 047001 (2001). * [12] H.
D. Yang, J. Y. Lin, H. H. Li, F. H. Hsu, C. J. Liu, S. C. Li, R. C. Yu,
and C. Q. Jin, Phys. Rev. Lett. **87**, 167003 (2001). * [13] J. J. Tu,
G. L. Carr, V. Perebeinos, C. C. Homes, M. Strongin, P. B. Allen, W. N.
Kang, Eun-Mi Choi, Hyeong-Jin Kim, and Sung-Ik Lee, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**87**, 277001 (2001). * [14] J. Kortus, I. I. Mazin, K. D.
Belashchenko, V. P. Antropov, and L. L. Boyer, Phys. Rev. Lett. **86**,
4656 (2001). * [15] J. M. An and W. E. Pickett, Phys. Rev. Lett. **86**,
4366 (2001). * [16] A. Y. Liu, I. I. Mazin, and J. Kortus, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **87**, 087005 (2001). * [17] S. Haas and K. Maki, Phys. Rev. B
**65**, 020502(R) (2002). * [18] A. I. Posazhennikova, T. Dahm, and K.
Maki, cond-mat/0204272, Europhys. Lett. (to be published). * [19] C.
Panagopoulos, B. D. Rainford, T. Xiang, C. A. Scott, M. Kambara, and I.
H. Inoue, Phys. Rev. B **64**, 094514 (2001). * [20] A. V. Pronin, A.
Pimenov, A. Loidl, and S. I. Krasnosvobodtsev, Phys. Rev. Lett. **87**,
097003 (2001). * [21] R. A. Kaindl, M. A. Carnahan, J. Orenstein, D. S.
Chemla, H. M. Christen, H. Y. Zhai, M. Paranthaman, and D. H. Lowndes,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **88**, 027003 (2002).

Figure 5: $R_{s}^{\rm eff}$ (T)−$R_{s}^{\rm eff}$(T=5 K) measured at
7.18 GHz plotted versus T_(c)/T representation for the sample S1030. The
temperature dependence of $R_{s}^{\rm eff}$ below 20 K is shown in the
inset. The full lines correspond to an exponential fit with Δ(0)/kT_(c)
obtained from the sapphire resonator measurement.

* [23] S. L. Li, H. H. Wen, Z. W. Zhao, Y. M. Ni, Z. A. Ren, G. C. Che,
H. P. Yang, Z. Y. Liu, and Z. X. Zhao, Phys. Rev. B **64**, 094522
(2001). * [24] A. A. Zhukov, L. F. Cohen, A. Purnell, Y. Bugoslavsky, A.
Berenov, J. L. MacManus-Driscoll, H. Y. Zhai, H. M. Christen, M. P.
Paranthaman, D. H. Lowndes, M. A. Jo, M. C. Blamir, L. Hao, and J.
Gallop, cond-mat/0107240 (unpublished). * [25] N. Klein, B. B. Jin, J.
Schubert, M. Schuster, H. R. Yi, A. Pimenov, A. Loidl, and S. I.
Krasnoosvobodtsev, cond-mat/0107259 (unpublished). * [26] G. Lamura, E.
Di Gennaro, M. Salluzzo, A. Andreone, J. Le Coec, A. Gauzzi, C. Cantoni,
M. Paranthaman, D. K. Christen, H. M. Christen, G. Giunchi, and S.
Ceresara, Phys. Rev. B **65**, 020506(R) (2002). * [27] R. Prozorov, R.
W. Giannetta, S. L. Bud’ko, and P. C. Canfield, Phys. Rev. B **64**,
180501(R) (2002). * [28] F. Manzano, A. Carrington, N. E. Hussey, S.
Lee, A. Yamamoto, and S. Tajima, Phys. Rev. Lett. **88**, 047002
(2002). * [29] M.-S. Kim, J. A. Skinta, T. R. Lemberge, W. N. Kang,
H.-J. Kim, E.-M. Choi, and S.-I. Lee, Phys. Rev. B **66**, 064511
(2002). * [30] N. Klein, Julich Research Center Internal Report No.
Jul-3773, 1997 (unpublished). * [31] M. R. Trunin, Phys. Usp. **41**,
843 (1998). * [32] S. Hensen, G. Muller, C. T. Rieck, and K. Scharnberg,
Phys. Rev. B **56**, 6237 (1997). * [33] W. N. Hardy, D. A. Bonn, D. C.
Morgan, Ruixing Liang, and Kuan Zhang, Phys. Rev. Lett. **70**, 3999
(1993). * [34] M. A. Hein, _High-Temperature Superconductor Thin Films
at Microwave Frequency_, Springer Tracts of Modern Physics Vol. 155
(Springer, Heidelberg, 1999). * [35] W. N. Kang, H.-J. Kim, E.-M. Choi,
C. U. Jung, and Sung-Ik Lee, Science **292**, 1521 (2001). * [36] H.-J.
Kim, W. N. Kang, E.-M. Choi, M.-S. Kim, Kijoon H. P. Kim, and S.-I. Lee,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **87**, 087002 (2001). * [37] N. Klein, U. Dahne, U.
Poppe, N. Tellmann, K. Urban, S. Orbach, S. Hensen, G. Muller, and H.
Piel, J. Supercond. **5**, 195 (1992); N. Klein, German Patent No. DE 42
du 369 C2 (25 August 1994); U.S. Patent No. 5,506,497 (9 April 1996). *
[38] N. Klein, H. Chaloupka, G. Muller, S. Orbach, H. Piel, B. Rosa, L.
Schultz, U. Klein, and M. Peiniger, J. Appl. Phys. **67**, 6940
(1990). * [39] R. Prozorov, R. W. Giannetta, A. Carrington, P. Fournier,
R. L. Greene, P. Guptasarma, D. G. Hinks, and A. R. Banks, Appl. Phys.
Lett. **77**, 4202 (2000). * [40] P. C. Canfield, D. K. Finnemore, S. L.
Bud’ko, J. E. Ostenson, G. Lapertot, C. E. Cunningham, and C. Petrovic,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **86**, 2423 (2001). * [41] B. Muhlschlegel, Z. Phys.
**155**, 313 (1959). * [42] Z. Wang, A. Kawakami, Y. Uzawa, and B.
Komiyama, Appl. Phys. Lett. **64**, 2034 (1994). * [43] B. Komiyama, Z.
Wang, and M. Tonouchi, Appl. Phys. Lett. **68**, 562 (1996). * [44] D.
K. Finnemore, J. E. Ostenson, S. L. Bud’ko, G. Lapertot, and P. C.
Canfield, Phys. Rev. Lett. **86**, 2420 (2001). * [45] X. H. Chen, Y. Y.
Xue, R. L. Meng, and C. W. Chu, Phys. Rev. B **64**, 172501 (2001). *
[46] J. P. Turneaure, J. Halbritter, and H. A. Schwettman, J. Supercond.
**4**, 341 (1991). * [47] F. Bouquet, Y. Wang, R. A. Fisher, D. G.
Hinks, J. D. Jorgensen, A. Junod, and N. E. Phillips, Europhys. Lett.
**56**, 856 (2001). * [48] M. Tinkham, _Introduction to
Superconductivity_, 2nd ed. (McGraw-Hill, New York, 1996), Eq. (9.8). *
[49] M. Xu, H. Kitazawa, Y. Takano, J. Ye, K. Nishida, H. Abe, A.
Matsushita, N. Tsujii, and G. Kido, Appl. Phys. Lett. **79**, 2779
(2001). * [50] C. Buzea and T. Yamashita, Supercond. Sci. Technol.
**14**, R115 (2001). * [51] T. Dahm, AI. Posazhennikova, and K. Maki,
cond-mat/0207521, Acta Phys. Pol. B (to be published). * [52] M. Angst,
R. Puzniak, A. Wisniewski, J. Jun, S. M. Kazakov, J. Karpinski, J. Roos,
and H. Keller, Phys. Rev. Lett. **88**, 167004 (2002). * [53] A. A.
Golubov, A. Brinkman, O. V. Dolgov, J. Kortus, and O. Jepsen, Phys. Rev.
B **66**, 054524 (2002). * [54] N. Klein, C. Zuccaro, U. Dahne, H.
Schulz, N. Tellmann, R. Kutzner, A. G. Zaitsev, and R. Wordenweber, J.
Appl. Phys. **78**, 6683 (1995). * [55] M. A. Hein, M. Getta, S.
Kreiskott, B. Monter, H. Piel, D. E. Oates, P. J. Hirst, R. G.
Humphreys, H. N. Lee, and S. H. Moon, Physica C **372-376**, 571 (2002).
