# Synthesis and characterization of compounds Sr2_Rm_Cu2O8-_d_

(_R_ = Pr, Nd, Sm, Eu, Gd; M = Nb, Ta)

M. Vybornov

Institut fur Physikalische Chemie, Universitat Wien, Wahringerstrasse
42, A-1090 Wien, Austria

W. Perthold

H. Michor

T. Holubar

G. Hilscher

Institut fur Experimentalphysik, T.U.Wien, Wiedner Hauptstrasse 8-10,
A-1040 Wien, Austria

P. Rogl

Institut fur Physikalische Chemie, Universitat Wien, Wahringerstrasse
42, A-1090 Wien, Austria

P. Fischer

Laboratorium fur Neutronenstreuung, ETH Zurich und Paul Scherrer
Institut, CH-5232, Villigen PSI, Switzerland

M. Divis

Department of Metal Physics, Charles University, CZ 121 16 Praha 2,
Czech Republic

###### Abstract

The compounds Sr2_R_M_Cu2O8-_d_ with R = Pr, Nd, Sm, Eu, Gd and M = Nb,
Ta have been synthesized and characterized. Rietveld structure
refinements reveal that the title compounds crystallize in the so-called
"2112" structural type of Ba2La_M_Cu2O8-_d_ (_M_ = Nb,Ta). With respect
to the different crystal symmetries reported earlier for
Ba2LaNbCu2O8-_d_, x-ray refinements of the crystal structure for all the
compounds were performed in comparison for the two crystal symmetries:
P4/_mmm_ and I4/_mcm_. Neutron powder diffraction data for
Sr2PrTaCu2O8-_d_ confirmed the body centered tetragonal symmetry. An
internally consistent set of the structural parameters is obtained for
the whole series of the title compounds. Magnetic ordering of the Cu
sublattice, as monitored on the (103)" reflection was observed below 190
K for Sr2PrTaCu2O8-_d_. Although traces of superconductivity (< 0.2

## I Introduction

Compounds derived from the YBa2Cu3O7 ("123") structural type include the
recent discovery of the so-called "2112" family of layered copper oxides
in the systems Ba2LaNbCu2O8 (Refs. 1-3) and Ba2_R_M_Cu2O8, with R = Pr,
Nd and M = Nb or Ta.4 Despite the fact that the 2112 phase has the same
metal stoichiometry as the 123 superconducting system the 2112 phase is
interestingly lacking superconductivity. For the 2112 compounds the CuO
chains of the 123 system are replaced by layers of NbO2 (TaO2), as the
result of a complete substitution of Cu atoms by Nb (Ta) atoms. The
stabilization of the carrier source to the CuO layers, as the
preliminary goal of the replacement Nb (Ta) for Cu, resulted, however,
in a comparatively high stability of the oxygen sites in the NbO2 (TaO2)
planes. This fact does not allow sufficient doping of the 2112 phase to
establish superconductivity, although band structure calculations
suggested that superconductivity in the 2112 compounds may be induced by
proper chemical substitutions.5

Two different crystal symmetries have been reported for the homologous
2112 compound Ba2LaNbCu2O8. Whereas the space group P4/_mmm_ was used by
Greaves and Slater3 to describe the structure of this compound on the
basis of x-ray diffraction data, a neutron diffraction analysis by Rey
_et al._2 revealed a higher crystal symmetry I4/_mcm_.

Table 1 gives an overview of the existing known 2112 phases. Attempts to
synthesize the 2112 Ba-based phase for R = Sm, Eu, Gd, and Y were not
successful. The reason for this was claimed3 to be a size effect, with Y
and rare-earth ions smaller than Nd being unable to form the 2112 phase;
their samples merely resulted in a mixture of perovskite Ba2_R_M_O6,
CuO, and another unidentified impurity phase. The rare-earth cation in
Ba2_R_M_O6 occupies the small octahedral site, which for smaller rare
earths makes the formation of this perovskite more probable than the
2112 phase. However, the Sr based 2112 phase was successfully
synthesized for a much wider range of rare earths: R = Pr and Sm by
Helberrand _et al._[6] and for R = Nd-Gd by Brnicevic _et al._[7] In
both publications lattice parameters were reported for the P4/mmm
symmetry.

With respect to local structural changes the rare-earth substitution in
Sr2RMCu2O8-_d_ provides an alternative method to study compounds derived
from the YBa2Cu3O7 structural type in comparison to our previously
reported studies on (Ba1-_a_Sr_a_)2PrNbCu2O8-_[9]_._ There isoelectronic
Ba/Sr substitution was found to produce an anomalous expansion of the
average Pr-oxygen bond and was accompanied by the reduction of the
antiferromagnetic ordering temperature T_(N) of the Pr sublattice. Due
to the fact that rare-earth ions are situated between CuO2 planes, a
change of the rare-earth ion in Sr2RMCu2O8-_d_ mostly affects the
nearest neighboring Cu and O(2) ions, but leaves the Sr, M, O(1), and
O(4) ions nearly untouched, whereas in (Ba1-_a_Sr_a_)2PrNbCu2O8-_d_
changes are caused by Ba/Sr replacement on the site between CuO2 planes
and NbO6 octahedra.

The aim of the present work is the crystallographic analysis and the
characterization of the physical properties of the novel compounds
Sr2RMCu2O8-_d_ for the series of the rare earths from Pr to Gd and for
M= Nb and Ta.

## II. Experimental Details

A series of ceramic samples with the general formula Sr2RMCu2O8-_d_ with
R = Pr, Nd, Sm, Eu, Gd

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ---------------------------------------------
                                 Sample container                                        Vanadium cylinder, R = 7.5 mm
                                 Temperature [K]                                                    10–296
                             Neutron wavelengths [nm]                             0.16984 (h. resol.), 0.17031 (h. intensity)
                              Absorption correction                                               μR = 0.1440
                                     Reactor                                                Saphir, PSI CH-Villigen
                                  Monochromator                                        Germanium (311) (h. resol. mode)
                                   Soller slits                                                 10^(′)/-/12^(′)
                                  2Θ range [2Θ]                                                    3.0–134.9
                             Step scan increment [2Θ]                                                 0.1
                         Coherent scattering lengths [fm]                                           Sr 7.02
                                        Pr                                                           4.58
                                        Ta                                                           6.91
                                        Cu                                                           7.718
                                        O                                                            5.803
                        Number of contributing reflections                                            145
                                    Background                                      Background refinement (six parameters)
                              Preferred orientation                                                  [001]
                               Number of variables                                                    30
                             Secondary impurity phase                                             Sr3Cu2TaO9
                      Largest element of correlation matrix                                           0.7
                                   Maximal Δ/σ                                                      < 0.01
                                 Residual values:                                
               R_(I) = ∑|I_(i)(obs) − (1/c)I_(i)(calc)|/∑I_(i)(obs)              
   R_(F) = ∑|[I_(i)(obs)]^(1/2) − (1/c)[I_(i)(calc)]^(1/2)|/∑[I_(i)(obs)]^(1/2)  
               R_(P) = ∑|Y_(i)(obs) − (1/c)Y_(i)(calc)|/∑Y_(i)(obs)              
   R_(wP) = [∑w_(i)|Y_(i)(obs) − (1/c)Y_(i)(calc)|²/∑w_(i)|Y_(i)(obs)|²]^(1/2)   
                   R_(a) = {(N − P + C)/∑w_(i)Y_(i)(obs)}^(1/2)                  
                               χ² = {R_(wP)/R_(e)}                               
                    I_(i) Integrated intensity of reflection i                         N Number of points in the pattern
                             w_(i) Weighting function                                   P Number of refined parameters
               Y_(i) Number of counts (background corrected) at 2Θ                     C Number of constraint functions
                                  c Scale factor                                 
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ---------------------------------------------

Table 2: Experimental neutron diffraction data for Sr2PrTaCu2O8.

  R                    La       Pr       Nd       Sm       Eu       Gd       Y
  ----------------- -------- -------- -------- -------- -------- -------- --------
  R^(*)(C = 8′)      0.1160   0.1126   0.1109   0.1079   0.1066   0.1053   0.1019
  ionic radius, m      <        <        <        <        <        <     
  A = Ba, M + Nb       Y        Y        Y        N        N        N        N
  A = Ba, M + Ta       Y        Y        N        N        N        N        N
  A = Sr, M + Nb       N        Y        Y        Y        Y        N     
  A = Sr, M + Ta       N        Y        Y        Y        Y        N     

Table 1: Ionic size effect in the formation of Ba- and Sr-based 2112
phases A₂RMCu2O8–_d_ (_A_ = Ba, Sr; R = La, Pr, Nd, Sm, Eu, Gd, Y; M
=Nb, Ta). Y, phase exists; N, no phase formed. Data from Refs. 1–4, 6, 7
and present work.

and M = Nb, Ta each with a total mass of 0.5-2.5 g, was synthesized by
reaction sintering. Powders of Nb2O5 ("Schuchardt"),Ta2O5 ("Aldrich"),
Pr6O11, Nd2O3, Sm2O3, Eu2O3, Gd2O3 ("Auer Remy"), SrCO3 ("Ventron"), and
CuO ("Merck"), each with a minimum purity of 99.9

Precise lattice parameters were determined at room temperature by means
of x-ray powder diffraction (XRD) with monochromatized Cu Kα radiation
(λ = 0.154 056 nm) in a Guinier-Huber camera (R = 114.59 mm) employing
an internal standard of 99.9999

A large sample specimen of Sr2PrTaCu2O8 (≃ 20 g) also was prepared for a
neutron diffraction experiment employing the multidetector powder
diffractometer DMC at the 10 MW Sapphir reactor in Villimgen (PSI),
Switzerland, with neutron wavelength λ = 0.169 48 nm (high resolution
mode) or λ = 0.170 31 nm (high intensity mode) and resolution
Δd/d ≥ 4 × 10⁻³ (see Ref. [11]). Preferred orientation effects were
minimized by powdering the sample to a grain size smaller than 25 μm and
by sample oscillation during the measurements. Further details
concerning the experiment are summarized in Table 2 including the
definition for a series of reliability measures. Atom distribution,
precise atom parameters and occupancies, individual thermal factors, and
profile parameters were derived from a least squares powder profile
refinement[10] using the neutron scattering lengths of Sears.[12]

Specific heat measurements were performed in an automatic calorimeter in
external fields up to 11 T using the step heating technique.
Susceptibility and magnetization measurements were carried out in a
calibrated ac susceptometer in the frequency range from 10 Hz to 1 kHz
with a field amplitude of 0.1 mT and in a 6-T superconducting quantum
interference device (SQUID) magnetometer, respectively.

## III Results and Discussion

### Crystallographic characterization

#### iii.1.1 Neutron diffraction of Sr2PrTaCu2O8-d

Refinements of the neutron diffraction data at 295 K and 9 K based on
the simple structure model in P4/mmm were not better than R_(F) ≃ 0.11.
A significant decrease of the residual value to R_(F) ≤ 0.048 can be
achieved transferring the structure model to the I4/mcm supergroup
according to a simple crystallographic supergroup-group relationship
$I4/mcm\to k_{2}(a_{0}/\sqrt{2},c_{0}/2)\to P4/mmm$, thereby releasing a
series of structural constraints, particularly of the oxygen atoms. In
the course of the refinement small amounts of a cubic perovskite-type
phase Sr(Ta,Cu)O3 became obvious, which was simultaneously refined as a
secondary phase. The final structural and profile parameters as well as
agreement indices are given in Table 3 including metal-oxygen bond
distances for the refinement of the 9 K pattern. As seen from the
residual values in Table 3 observed and calculated neutron intensities
are in excellent agreement. Freeing the occupancies of all metal atoms
did not reveal any significant deviations from full atom occupation.
Determination of metal occupancies is of higher significance in the
corresponding x-ray refinement, due to the higher x-ray scattering power
of the metal atoms as compared to the neutron case (see below).

The crystal structure of Sr2PrTaCu2O8-d is presented in Fig. 1,
revealing a three-dimensional perspective of the CuO2 planes and TaO6
octahedra. Figure 2 shows an overview along [001] on the tilting of the
corner connected TaO6 octahedra. It is clearly displayed for the upmost

Figure 1: Crystal structure of Sr2PrTaCu2O8−d in a three-dimensional
perspective view of the CuO2 planes and TaO6 octahedra.

Cu-O(2) layer in Fig. 1 that all of the oxygen ions O(2) lie in the same
plane. As documented in Table III there is only a small change in the
tilting angle of the TaO₆ octahedra Ta[O(1)₂,O(4)₄] between 9 K and 295
K. In contrast to the x-ray evaluation (see below) which is less
sensitive to oxygen movements, there is no variation in x and y for the
O(2) atom out of its pseudospecial position in the 16l site (1/4, 3/4,
0.1835). Whereas the series of measurements at temperatures between 9 K
and 295 K proved that the z parameters of the atoms are practically
insensitive to temperature, the tilting of the octahedra as monitored
via the x, y parameters of the O(4) atom shows a slight temperature
dependence. TaO₆ tilting angles are in reasonably good accordance with
the results obtained from x-ray data (see below).

The temperature dependence of both lattice parameters in the region from
9 to 295 K is shown in Fig. 3, revealing the usual monotonic increase.

Difference diffraction spectra between room-temperature and
low-temperature runs revealed only one significant peak of magnetic
origin at 2θ = 21.8^(∘), which perfectly corresponds to the (103)
reflection extinct in

  ------------------------------------------------------ ------ ------------ ------------ ------------------- ------------ --------------
  _Neutron powder diffraction at 9 K, λ = 0.17031 nm._                                                                     
  a = 0.54906(3) ,                                                                        c = 2.3374(2) nm,                c/a = 4.257,
  Atom                                                   Site   x            y            z                   B, 10² nm²   Occupancy
  Sr                                                     8g     0.0          0.5          0.0987(2)           1.2(1)       1.0
  Pr                                                     4b     0.0          0.5          0.25                0.3(2)       1.0
  Ta                                                     4c     0.0          0.0          0.0                 0.4(1)       1.0
  Cu                                                     8f     0.0          0.0          0.1756(1)           0.3(1)       1.0
  O(1)                                                   8f     0.0          0.0          0.0830(3)           2.0(2)       1.0
  O(4)                                                   8h     0.1967(15)   0.6967(15)   0.0                 2.0(2)       0.92(2)
  O(2)                                                   16l    0.2500(7)    0.7500(7)    0.1788(19)          0.7(1)       1.0
  ------------------------------------------------------ ------ ------------ ------------ ------------------- ------------ --------------

Table III: Crystallographic data for Sr₂PrTaCu₂O₈ (Ba₂LaNbCu₂O₈ type).
Neutron diffraction data. Temperature factor T = exp [−B(sin Θ/λ)²],
standard deviations are in parentheses. Space group I/_4mcm_ (No. 140),
origin at center, Z = 4.

the nuclear cell with symmetry I4/mcm. Figure 4 shows the temperature
dependence of the integrated intensity of the (103) reflection which
goes to zero at ∼190 K. The weak intensity of the magnetic reflection
indicates a saturation moment of  ∼ 0.3μ_(B) or less, probably to be
attributed to weak magnetic interactions within the Cu sublattice. The
type of ordering, however, seems to be different from isotopic
Ba₂PrNbCu₂O₈ where the prominent magnetic peak corresponds to the (102)
reflection and vanishes at T_(N) = 340 K.[13]

#### iii.2.2 X-ray diffraction

Two different crystal symmetries were earlier reported for the parent
2112 compound Ba₂LaNbCu₂O_(8 − δ) (Ref. [2]) and for Ba₂RNbCu₂O_(8 − δ)
(R= Pr, Nd).[13] We have performed the x-ray refinements of the crystal
structure for all Sr₂RMCu₂O_(8 − δ) compounds for both crystal
symmetries P4/mmm and I4/mcm, but since the neutron powder diffraction
data clearly confirmed the I4/mcm symmetry, the analysis of the x-ray
diffraction data is only reported for the latter model.

Guinier photographs and powder x-ray diffractograms for all samples
Sr₂RMCu₂O_(8 − δ) were indexed completely on the basis of a
tetragonal-body-centered unit cell and revealed close resemblance to the
structure of Ba₂LaNbCu₂O_(8 − δ).

Results of our previous investigation on (Ba,Sr)₂PrNbCu₂O₈ (see Ref.
[9]) confirmed a significant improvement of the phase purity of the
samples with off

Figure 4: Temperature dependence of the integrated intensity of the
(103) magnetic neutron reflection in Sr₂PrTaCu₂O₈.

Figure 3: Variation of lattice parameters vs temperature for
Sr₂PrTaCu₂O_(8 − δ) from neutron diffraction.

Figure 2: A view along [001] on the tilting of the corner connected TaO₆
octahedra in Sr₂PrTaCu₂O_(8 − δ).

stoichiometric compositions Ba_(2 − x)R_(1 + x)M_(1 − x)Cu_(2 + x)O₈ for
x = 0.1, R= La, Pr, and M= Nb, Ta, as was previously reported by Greaves
and Slater,³ and by Jhans _et al._[14] for Sr₂RNbCu₂O₈. For Sr-2112
systems, however, neither the ratio between the main and secondary
(impurity) phases nor the physical properties of our samples could be
improved for the off-stoichiometric compositions
Sr_(2 − x)R_(1 + x)M_(1 − x)Cu_(2 + x)O₈ when x was x = 0.1, 0.2, or
0.3, R= Pr, Gd, and M= Nb, Ta. Moreover, the qualitative analysis for R=
Gd of both Nb- and Ta-based samples shows an even larger amount of
secondary phase(s) for the off-stoichiometric samples than for
stoichiometric ones. Therefore this report exclusively deals with the
results obtained on stoichiometric samples Sr₂RMCu₂O_(8 − δ) for the
whole range of combinations studied.

Table IV summarizes the results of our refinements. Rietveld full matrix
full profile refinements were carried out in the following sequence.
First, the background, cell parameters, atomic coordinates, and
equivalent therm

${}^{\rm a}$Bennahamiahs _et al._, Ref. [17].

${}^{\rm b}$Jhans _et al._, Ref. [14].

${}^{\rm c}$Van Vleck susceptibility with _λ_ = 430 K and _λ_ = 425 K
(see text) for the Nb and Ta samples, respectively.

Table 5: Magnetic parameters determined from the modified Curie-Weiss
fit in the temperature regime 4.2–300 K.

the level sequence 0, 13.5, 36 meV. As shown in Fig. 8(b) both sets of
CF parameters exhibit the characteristic curvature of the inverse
susceptibility and differ from one another only in the low-temperature
regime. The discrepancy of the absolute susceptibility values between
the calculation and the experimental data may arise from a larger
calculated separation between the J = 5/2 ground multiplet and the
J = 7/2 multiplet (with an overall splitting between 1500 and 2080 K
above the ground state) than the above estimate of ΔE = 880-950 K for
the Nb and Ta compounds, respectively, according to the modified
Curie-Weiss law.

The inverse susceptibilities of the Pr- and Nd-2112 systems are of the
same magnitude and are therefore displayed in Fig. 8(c) separately.
Beside the Sr₂PrMCu₂O₈ compounds we include in the inset of Fig. 8(c)
Ba₂PrNbCu₂O₈ which orders antiferromagnetically at 12 K. [9, 13] The
unexpected reduction of $T_{N}^{\rm Pr}$ from 12 to 2.3 K across the
solid solution (Ba${}_{1-\rm g}$Sr₂)₂PrNbCu₂O₈ has been discussed in
terms of the hybridization of Pr 4f states with the Cu-O valence bands
together with an inhomogeneous chemical pressure yielding an anomalous
expansion of the Pr-O bond length although the overall volume shrinks
upon Ba/Sr substitution; for a further discussion see Ref. [9]. The
pronounced downturn of the inverse susceptibility at low temperatures of
both Nd compounds, indicative for CF contributions, is not properly
described by the simple modified CW law. The calculated susceptibilities
employing either the CF parameters of Nd-123 according to Goodman _et
al._[21] or Allenspach _et al._[22] or Pr-123 (Ref. [20]) hardly differ
from one another for the polycrystalline data (the deviation at room
temperature is of the order of the size of the symbols). Shown in Fig.
8(c) are the calculations with the CF parameter set CF2 which provide a
satisfactory description of the susceptibility for both the Pr and the
Nd compounds and are discussed together with the specific heat data in
the next section.

#### iii.2.3 Sr₂RmCu₂O₈ (R = Eu, Gd; M = Nb, Ta)

Gd-2112 compounds exhibit a rather linear 1/χ(T) [Fig. 8(c)] and small
χ₀ due to the vanishing impact of the crystal field upon the J = S = 7/2
ground state in contrast to the other R-2112 systems incorporating
rare-earth elements with L ≠ 0. Antiferromagnetic order of the
rare-earth sublattice is revealed by a peak in the ac susceptibility
(inset, Fig. 9) and the specific heat (see below) for both Gd compounds
at 2.18 K which is in agreement with $T_{N}^{\rm Gd}$ of Sr₂GdNbCu₂O₈
determined by Jhans _et al._[14] The weak but distinct anomaly of the ac
susceptibility of Sr₂GdNbCu₂O₈ at about 280 K is washed out in higher
fields, yielding a shallow deviation from linearity of 1/$\chi_{\rm de}$
versus T which may be attributed to the onset of Cu antiferromagnetism.
This feature is not observed for the corresponding Ta compound.

The weakly temperature-dependent susceptibility of the Eu compounds
(Fig. 10) being an order of magnitude larger than that of Ba₂LaNbCu₂O₈
can be attributed to the Van Vleck susceptibility due to the mixing of
the J = 0 and J = 1 levels plus the thermal population of the higher
multiplets given by [18]

$$\chi=N_{A}\frac{\sum_{J=0}^{6}\left\{\left[g_{J}^{2}\mu_{B}^{2}J(J+1)/3kT \right]+\alpha_{j}\right\}(2J+1)e^{-W_{J}/kT}}{\sum_{J=0}^{6}(2J+1)e^{-W_{J}/ kT}},$$

Figure 10: Susceptibility of Sr₂EuMCu₂O_(8 − δ) (M =Nb,Ta); solid line
represents the Van Vleck susceptibility including a Curie-Weiss term;
see text.

Figure 9: Inverse susceptibility of Sr₂GdMCu₂O_(8 − δ) (M = Nb,Ta) as a
function of temperature; solid line is the fit to the modified CW law,
inset: ac susceptibility (80 Hz and 0.1 mT).

where g_(J) = 3/2, W_(J) = λJ(J + 1)/2 are the average energies of the
excited J multiplets above J = 0, and α_(J) = −μ_(B)²/6λ (1 ≤ J ≤ 6) and
α₀ = 8μ_(B)²/λ are the Van Vleck contributions per Eu³⁺ ion. For typical
values of the spin-orbit interaction, λ, only terms up to J = 2 are
significant below room temperature (see also Ref. [19]). To account for
the background susceptibility of the Cu-Nb-O sublattice we included the
modified CW law to this fit of the Van Vleck susceptibility which is
represented by the solid line in Fig. 10, yielding the data for
$\mu_{\rm eff}$, χ₀, and Θ given in Table 5 together with λ = 430 and
425 K for the Nb and Ta compounds, respectively. From Table 5 the
effective moments of the CW term are of the same order as those for
Ba₂LaMCu₂O₈ and describe the low-temperature upturn of χ(T) reasonably
well.

#### iii.2.4 Intercomparison of the effective moments

The results in Table 5 indicate that $\mu_{\rm eff}$ of Sr₂RNbCu₂O₈ (R=
Pr, Nd, Sm) and the corresponding Ta compounds differ from each other
with the tendency that the Nb compounds exhibit slightly larger
$\mu_{\rm eff}$ values (in particular for Pr, Nd) but with hardly
differing χ₀. Even when different temperature regimes are used for the
fitting procedure of the modified CW law this feature is preserved,
which may be attributed to differences in the Cu antiferromagnetism
(AF). On the other hand, considering that χ₀ describes the curvature of
1/χ(T) (i.e., the deviation from the CW law) it incorporates implicitly
also the crystal field splitting of the rare-earth ground multiplet and
represents in this case an approximation of the Van Vleck susceptibility
which reduces the influence of the different core diamagnetism
contributions of Nb and Ta visible in the Ba-La systems. Hence the
slightly larger $\mu_{\rm eff}$ values of the Nb compounds (with the
exception of the Gd and Eu system) are not necessarily due to
differences in the effective moments of the Cu-M-O sublattice only,
since they contain also contributions from the CF splitting. The
effective moments of the Sr₂RMCu₂O₈ compounds are in between those of
fully oxidized and oxygen-depleted RBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) systems but remain
below the free R³⁺ values ($\mu_{\rm eff}^{\rm Pr^{3+}}=3.58\mu_{B}$,
$\mu_{\rm eff}^{\rm Nd^{3+}}=3.62\mu_{B}$,
$\mu_{\rm eff}^{\rm Sn^{3+}}=0.845\mu_{B}$). This together with the
reasonable agreement of the calculated susceptibilities using CF
parameters of the R-123 compounds indicates that the strength of the CF
splitting in the R123 and 2112 systems is similar.

### Specific heat measurements

A survey of the heat capacity of Sr₂RMCu₂O₈ (R= Nd, Sm, Eu and Gd; M=
Nb,Ta) (Fig. 11) displays the general low- and high-temperature features
of these systems. Besides the clear sign for AF order in the Gd
compounds [see inset of Fig. 11(a)] the specific heat anomaly of
Sr₂NdTaCu₂O₈ which seems to saturate at low temperatures may indicate AF
order below 1.7 K. By analogy with the R123 systems and their low
ordering temperatures of the R sublattice [24] the low temperature
upturns of the heat capacity in Sr₂NdNbCu₂O₈ and Sr₂SmMCu₂O₈(M= Nb,Ta)
also can be regarded as a sign for AF ordering at lower temperatures.
Note that AF order of the Nd sublattice has been established by neutron
diffraction in Ba₂NdNbCu₂O₈ below 1.7 K. [13]

The heat capacity of Sr₂EuMCu₂O₈(M= Nb,Ta) [Fig. 11(b)] can be viewed as
a representative lattice background specific heat to determine the
magnetic and crystal field contributions to C_(p) for the other
rare-earth elements with J ≠ 0. The low-temperature regime up to 15 K is
given by C_(p) = γT + βT³ + δT⁵ with γ = 3.2 mJ/mol K², β = 0.559
mJ/(mol K⁴) and δ = 9.9 × 10⁻⁵ mJ/(mol K⁴) where β yields the
low-temperature limit of the Debye temperature Θ[F] = 365 K. The
positive deviation from the fit below 2.5 K cannot properly be described
with an A/T² term and may arise from magnetic impurities which cause the
low-temperature upturn of the susceptibility in Fig. 10. For the
temperature range 4 K  < T< 100 K we use a combination of a Debye and
four Einstein functions where the characteristic temper

Figure 11: Specific heat (C_(p)) of Sr₂RMCu₂O_(8 − δ) (R= Nd, Sm, Eu,
Gd, and M= Nb, Ta) as a function of temperature: (a) specific heat of
Sr₂EuMCu₂O_(8 − δ) (M=Nb,Ta); inset, C_(p)/T versus T plot of the
low-temperature regime. (b) The labels A and B refer to freshly
synthesized samples and after 13 months storage under laboratory
conditions, respectively (see Sec. III.1.4).

atures Θ_(D) = 160 K, 167 K; Θ_(E)¹ = 585 K, 570 K18; Θ_(E)² = 302 K,
306 K 11; Θ_(E)³ = 183 K, 174 K9; Θ_(E)¹ = 95 K,90 K 1 correspond to the
3 acoustic and 39 optical modes for the Nb and Ta compounds,
respectively (the number of optical branches for the latter four
Einstein temperatures are given in brackets).

To check the influence of the long-term aging upon the lattice specific
heat we repeated C_(p) measurements after 13 months storage of samples
under normal laboratory conditions. Although small changes of the
lattice parameters together with a reduction of the tilting angle of the
Ta[O(1)2,O(4)4] octahedra have been observed, the heat capacity of
Sr2EuTaCu2O8 remains within the experimental resolution the same [see
Fig. 11(b)]. This indicates that aging has no effect upon the lattice
specific heat while small changes of C_(p)(T) in the
intermediate-temperature range of the corresponding Sm compounds may be
attributed to crystal field effects.

#### iii.2.1 Sr₂GdM Cu₂O_(8 − δ) (M =Nb,Ta)

A comparison of the specific heat anomalies at T_(N) of Gd-123O6/O7 and
GdBaSrCu3O6/O7 (Ref. [25]) with Sr2GdMCu2O8-δ in Fig. 12 reveals that
Ba/Sr substitution in Gd-123 systems yields an analogous broadening of
the λ anomaly as the replacement of the Cu-O chains by Nb or Ta-O
octahedra. The main difference of the Sr2GdMCu2O8-δ compounds is the
shift of $T_{N}^{\rm Gd}$ to lower temperatures with respect to the
Gd-123 systems. No distinct effect between Nb and Ta upon
$T_{N}^{\rm Gd}$ is observed.

To determine the entropy associated with the AF order (which is expected
to be Rln 8) external fields up to 11 T were applied. The small anomaly
at 6.9 K in Fig. 13 is due to a small fraction (∼2

#### iii.2 Sr₂Rm Cu₂O₂ (R=Pr, Nd, Sm; M =Nb,Ta)

For a detailed specific heat study of Ba2-srSrPrNbCu2O8 we refer to Ref.
[9] where the unexpected reduction of T_(N) from 12 to 2.3 K in this
series was discussed in terms of an inhomogeneous volume compression
accompanied by an expansion of the Pr-O bond length of about 3.8

Figure 12: Comparison of the low-temperature heat capacity of
GdBa2Cu3O7/O6, GdBaSrCu3O7/O6 (Ref. [25]) and Sr2GdMCu2O8-δ (M =Nb,Ta).

Figure 13: Gd contribution to the specific heat (ΔC_(p)) of
Sr2GdNbCu2O8/ for various external fields, solid lines calculated
C_(p)(T, H) including the Zeeman splitting of the external field but
without the accounting for the AF order (see text).

Sr, Nb, and Ta; see also Table 1) and the AF order of the Ba₂PrTaCu₂O₈
is well within the measuring regime we present a comparison of those in
Fig. 14. Despite the rather sensitive behavior of the exceptionally high
Pr antiferromagnetic order in PrBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) (17 K) upon doping
and/or local structural changes [as, e.g., oxygen depletion,[20]
hydrogen absorption,[25, 27] Cu/3d metal,[28] and Ba/Sr (Ref. 25)
substitutions], Fig. 14 shows no significant effect between Nb and Ta
upon the low-temperature specific heat anomaly associated with
$T_{N}^{\rm Pr}$. This agrees with the finding for the Gd-2112 system
and also for the following Nd- and Sm-2112 compounds. Minor changes of
the pronounced C_(p) anomaly at 12 K between Ba₂PrNbCu₂O₈ and
Ba₂PrTaCu₂O₈ are of the same order as those observed for a variation of
the stoichiometry in Ba_(2 − y)Pr_(1 + y)Nb_(1 − y)Cu_(2 + y)O₈.[9]

The Nd contribution to the heat capacity (ΔC_(p)) after subtracting the
phonon contribution, represented by C_(p) of the corresponding
Sr₂EuMCu₂O₈, is displayed together with the calculated heat capacity for
various external fields in Figs. 15(a) and 15(b). As for the
susceptibility calculation we use the CF parameters of Nd-123 determined
from inelastic neutron scattering by Allenspach _et al.[22]_ which
yield, without accounting for the low-temperature antiferromagnetic
order, the splitting of the ⁴I_(9/2) ground multiplet into five doublets
with the following level scheme: 0-12-20-35-116 meV. Although Nd-123O₇
is orthorhombic, the CF levels shift only a little to lower energies
upon oxygen depletion for tetragonal Nd-123O_(7 − δ) (δ ≈ 0.6 and
1).[22, 29] This together with the agreement of the experimental and
calculated data (which is the average mean value of C_(p) with respect
to the external field along the a, b, and c directions) in Fig. 15
indicates that the assumption for the CF parameters appears to be a
reasonable approach for the R-2112 compounds and allows the following
interpretation of the C_(p) data in external fields: A field of 3 T
shifts the AF order (at about 1.7 K at zero field) to lower temperatures
while a Schottky anomaly due to the Zeeman splitting of the ground state
doublet occurs which moves to higher temperatures with growing fields as
expected. From the entropy associated with the Schottky anomaly
attaining Rln 2=5.76 J/(mol K) between 6 and 9 T we conclude that a
field as low as 6-9 T is sufficient to suppress the AF order of the Nd
sublattice. The second Schottky anomaly with a broad maximum at about
120 K and a tail extending to above room temperature arises from the
population of the next excited states at 12, 20, and 35 meV. The Nd
contribution to the heat capacity is slightly larger in case of the Ta
analog but the overall shape of the temperature and field dependence of
C_(p) is the same for both compounds. The deviation between the
calculation and the experimental data may be attributed to a smaller CF
splitting than in Nd-123, although a slight difference in the phonon
contribution between the Eu and the corresponding Nd compounds might
cause a similar effect.

For the Sm-2112 compounds an analogous temperature and field dependence
of C_(p) is expected as for Nd since, according to inelastic neutron
scattering of SmBa₂Cu₃O₆,[23] the crystal field splits the ⁶H_(5/2)
ground state multiplet of Sm³⁺ into three doublets separated by 11 meV
and 32 meV. For the calculation of the specific

Figure 14: Specific heat of Sr₂PrMCu₂O_(8 − δ) and Ba₂PrMCu₂O_(8 − δ) as
a function of temperature.

Figure 15: Nd contribution to the specific heat (ΔC_(p)) as a function
of temperature for various fields, solid line CF calculation with the
same CF parameter set [from Nd-123 (Ref. 22)] as that used for the
susceptibility.

heat we use the CF parameters of Nd-123,[22] where the second-order CF
parameter (as for the susceptibility) is modified to obtain the second
level at 11 meV (CF1). As shown in Fig. 16 the calculated Sm
contribution to the specific heat above 20 K (due to the population of
the excited levels at 11 and 32 meV) is situated between the measured
data of freshly prepared specimens (sample A) and those after a 13 month
storage of the samples under normal laboratory conditions (sample B; see
also Sec. III.1.4). The reduction of ΔC_(p) between the samples A and B
for T > 10 K is attributed to the reduction of the CF splitting caused
by a smaller tilting angle of the Nb or Ta-O octahedra observed for the
aged specimen.

A small fraction of Sm₂CuO₄ as a secondary phase (of about 1-2

## IV Conclusion

An internally consistent set of structural parameters is obtained for
the compounds Sr₂_RMC_u₂O_(8 − δ) with R = Pr, Nd, Sm, Eu, Gd and M =
Nb, Ta.

Traces of superconductivity (of the order of less than 0.2

From magnetic and specific heat measurements the overall strength of the
crystal field splitting in these R-2112 compounds is similar to that in
the corresponding R-123 systems. Antiferromagnetic order of the
rare-earth sublattice occurs for both Gd-2112 compounds at 2.18 K and
for Sr₂PrMCu₂O_(8 − δ) (M = Nb,Ta) at about 2.3 K, while T_(N)^(R) for
the Nd and Sm compounds are presumably below 1.8 K. In contrast to the
pronounced effect of the isoelectronic Ba/Sr substitution upon the
suppression of the Pr antiferromagnetism in
(Ba_(1 − a)Sr_(a))₂PrNbCu₂O_(8 − δ),[9] the replacement of Nb by Ta is
found to have no distinct influence upon the shape and position of the
low-temperature specific heat anomalies and, hence, upon the AF order of
the rare-earth sublattice.

###### Acknowledgements.

This research was sponsored by the Austrian National Science Foundation
(FWF) under Grant Nos. P7620 and P8169 and by the Kartnter
Elektrizitatsgesellschaft (KELAG). The work of M.D. was supported by the
Grant Agency of the Czech Republic (Grant No. 202/93/1165). The authors
are indebted to Auer Remy, Hamburg for a generous gift of rare-earth
oxide materials.

## References

* [1] N. Murayama, E. Sudo, K. Kani, A. Tsuzuki, S. Kawakami, M. Awano,
and Y. Torii, Jpn. J. Appl. Phys. **27**, L1623 (1988). * [2] M.-J. Rey,
Ph. Dehaudt, J. Joubert, and A.W. Hewat, Physica C **167**, 162
(1990). * [3] C. Greaves and P.R. Slater, Physica C **161**, 245
(1989). * [4] A. Ichinose, T. Wada, H. Yamauchi, and S. Takanaga, J.
Ceram. Soc. Jpn. **97**, 1053 (1989). * [5] L. Mattheiss, Phys. Rev. B
**45**, 2442 (1992). * [6] B. Hellebrand, X.Z. Wang, and P.L. Steger, J.
Solid State Chem. **110**, 32 (1994). * [7] N. Brnicevic, I. Basic, P.
Planicic, M. Tonkovic, M. Forsthuber, G. Hilscher, T. Holubar, H.
Michor, H. Kirchmayr, and G. Schaudy, Appl. Supercond. **1**, 519
(1993). * [8] D. Shannon, Acta Crystallogr. A **32**, 751 (1976). * [9]
H. Michor, M. Vybornov, T. Holubar, W. Perthold, G. Schaudy, G.
Hilscher, and P. Rogl, Physica C **226**, 1 (1994). * [10] D.B. Wiles
and R.A. Young, J. Appl. Crystallogr. **14**, 149 (1981). * [11] J.
Schefer, P. Fischer, H. Heer, A. Isacson, M. Koch, and R. Thut, Nucl.
Instrum. Methods Phys. Res. A **288**, 477 (1990). * [12] V.F. Sears, in
_Methods of Experimental Physics, Neutron Scattering_, edited by R.
Celotta and J. Levine (Academic

Figure 16: Sm contribution to the specific heat (ΔC_(p)) as a function
of temperature for various fields, solid, dashed, and dotted lines CF
calculations with the CF parameter set CF1 [from Nd-123 (Ref. 22)] for
0, 9, and 11 T. The labels A and B refer to freshly synthesized samples
and after 13 month storage under laboratory conditions, respectively
(see Sec. III.1.4).

Press, Orlando, FL, 1988), Vol. 23, Pt. A, p. 521. * [13] N. Rosov, J.W.
Lynn, H.B. Radousky, M. Bennahmias, T.J. Goodwin, P. Klavins, and R.N.
Shelton, Phys. Rev. B **47**, 15 256 (1993). * [14] H. Jhans, S.K.
Malik, and R. Vijayaraghavan, Physica C **215**, 181 (1993). * [15] B.
Rupp, E. Forschke, E. Meuffels, P. Allenspach, and P. Fischer, Phys.
Rev. B **40**, 4472 (1989). * [16] M. Guillaume, P. Allenspach, W.
Henggeler, J. Mesot, B. Roessli, U. Staub, P. Fischer, A. Furrer, and V.
Trounov, J. Phys. C **6**, 7963 (1994). * [17] M. Bennahmias, J.C.
O’Brien, H.B. Radousky, T.J. Goodwin, P. Klavins, J.M. Link, C.A. Smith,
and R.N. Shelton, Phys. Rev. B **46**, 11 986 (1992). * [18] J.H. Van
Vleck, _The Theory of Electric and Magnetic Susceptibilities_ (Oxford
University Press, London, 1965), p. 245ff. * [19] C.L. Seaman, N.Y.
Ayoub, T.J. Bornholm, E.A. Early, S. Ghamaty, B.W. Lee, J.T. Markert,
J.J. Neumeier, P.K. Tsai, and M.B. Maple, Physica C **159**, 391
(1989). * [20] G. Hilscher, E. Holland-Moritz, T. Holubar, H.-D.
Jostarndt, V. Nekvasil, G. Schaudy, U. Walter, and G. Filion, Phys. Rev.
B **49**, 535 (1994) * [21] G.L. Goodman, C-K. Loong, and L. Soderholm,
J. Phys. Condens. Matter. **3**, 49 (1991). * [22] P. Allenspach, J.
Mesot, U. Staub, M. Guillaume, A. Furrer, S.-I. You, M.J. Kramer, R.W.
McCallum, H. Maletto, H. Blook, H. Matka, R. Osborn, M. Arai, Z. Bowdon,
and A.D. Taylor, Z. Phys. B **95**, 301 (1994). * [23] M. Guillaume, A.
Furrer, and V. Trounov (unpublished). * [24] J.W. Lynn, _High
Temperature Superconductivity_ (Springer-Verlag, New York, 1990), p.
268. * [25] G. Hilscher, T. Holubar, G. Schaudy, J. Dumschat, M.
Strecker, G. Wortmann, X.Z. Wang, B. Hellebrand, and D. Bauerle, Physica
C **224**, 330 (1994). * [26] T. Holubar, H. Michor, G. Schaudy, G.
Hilscher, M. Vybornov, and P. Rogl, Physica B **194-196**, 201 (1994). *
[27] J.N. Daou, G. Hilscher, N. Pillmayr, and P. Vajda, in
_Superconducting Materials, Physics and Application_, edited by A.
Niku-Lari (I.I.T.T., Paris, 1991), p. 275. * [28] H.D. Yang, M.W. Lin,
C.K. Chiou, and H.W. Lee, Phys. Rev. B **46**, 1176 (1992). * [29] H.
Drossler, H.-D. Jostarndt, J. Harnischmacher, J. Kalenborn, U. Walter,
A. Severing, W. Schlabitz, and E. Holland-Moritz (unpublished). * [30]
T. Holubar, G. Schaudy, N. Pillmayr, G. Hilscher, M. Divis, and V.
Nekvasil, J. Magn. Magn. Mater. **104-107**, 479 (1992). * [31] V.
Nekvasil, M. Divis, G. Hilscher, and E. Holland-Moritz, J. Alloys
Compounds (to be published).

Figure 1: Crystal structure of Sr₂PrTaCu₂O_(8 − δ) in a
three-dimensional perspective view of the CuO₂ planes and TaO₆
octahedra.

Figure 2: A view along [001] on the tilting of the corner connected
TaO_(θ) octahedra in Sr₂PrTaCu₂O_(θ − δ).
