Magnetic and transport properties of Zn-doped YBa₂Cu₃O₇ in the normal
state

S. Zagoulaev

Laboratoire de Physique de la Matiere Condensee, Ecole Normale
Superieure, 24 rue Lhomond, 75231 Paris, France and Theoretical Physics
Department, St. Petersburg University, St. Petersburg 198904, Russia

P. Monod

LPMC, Ecole Normale Superieure, 24 rue Lhomond 75231 Paris, France

J. Jegoudez

Laboratoire de Chimie des Solides, Universite Paris Sud, 91405 Orsay,
France

###### Abstract

Detailed resistivity and susceptibility measurements are reported on
YBa₂(Cu_(1 − x)Zn_(x))O₇ ceramics samples for 0

pacs: 0163-1829/95/52(14)/10474(14)/506.00 + Footnote †: preprint: 1
OCTOBER 1995-II

## I Introduction

In order to improve our understanding of the physics of the [CuO₂] plane
in the normal state of the high-temperature superconductors one major
way of investigation consists in substituting Cu atoms by foreign,
impurity atoms.

The purpose of this paper is a detailed study of the magnetic and
transport properties of Zn-doped YBa₂Cu₃O₇(YBCO):
[YBa₂(Cu_(1 − x)Zn_(x))₃O₇]. Indeed, among the different Cu
substitutions in this compound studied so far [1, 2]. Co, Fe, and Ni
bear, as expected, a magnetic moment due to their incomplete d shells
whereas Zn or Ga should not be magnetic by themselves owing to their
3d10 character. However, the very strong detrimental effect of Zn doping
on the critical temperature T_(c) of YBCO, about 10 K/

In the case of YBCO doped with Zn and in contrast to the doping with Ga,
there is strong evidence from NMR [8, 9], oxygen doping [10], muon spin
resonance (μSR) [11], neutron scattering [12], and transport properties
[13] that the majority of Zn atoms are substituted in the plane sites
preferentially to the chains. However, some intermediate situation
cannot be excluded _a priori_, which might depend on the specific
preparation method of the compound as shown by Cooper [14]. The
transport properties of Zn-doped YBCO in the normal state have been
reported by numerous authors [15], among which are the following:

(i) Cooper _et al._[14, 15] demonstrated a Mathiessen law behavior as a
function of Zn concentration in ceramics prepared by solid-state
reaction from oxalates or carbonates.

(ii) **Chien, Wang,** and **Ong4** focused on the Hall angle, i.e., the
ratio of transverse to longitudinal conductivity, which they determined
separately on Zn-doped single crystals prepared from the liquid state by
the flux method (allowing for a large drop of concentration of Zn upon
crystallization). In both cases the rate of decrease of T_(e) is close
to 10 K/

We report below

(1) the determination of the resistivity scattering cross section _A_Zn
of Zn from a quantitative analysis of the resistivity data in the range
0-8

(2) the magnetic moment m, Curie temperature T_(C), and
temperature-independent susceptibility _X_spin as a function of Zn
doping in the range 0-10

As will be clear in the discussion, the image that emerges from the
nonmagnetic doping in the Cu plane site of YBCO is quite similar to that
of La1.85Sr0.15CuO4. In particular, the large resistivity scattering
cross section found provides a firm basis for a model of locally induced
magnetism by a nonmagnetic dopant, at the expense of the itinerant
carrier susceptibility.

## II Samples and experimental method

For both type of measurements (resistivity and magnetization) the same
types of samples were used, namely, neighboring slices 4 x 10 x 1 and 4
x 4 x 6 mm3, respectively, of Zn-doped ceramics. These were obtained by
conventional solid-state reaction from Y2O3, BaCO3, CuO, and the nominal
amount of ZnO needed. After two sets of calcination (in air) of the
loose powder above 900 degC, with intermediate grinding in an agate
mortar, a final sintering at 950 degC for 24 h in air was performed on
pressed bars (25 x 10 x 5 mm3) at 1.5 ton/cm2, followed by slow cooling
down to room temperature. Table I summarizes the thermal history of each
batch. In order to assess the role of a possible (small) oxygen
deficiency a further oxygen anneal was given, without notable change of
the magnetic and resistivity results. X-ray analysis was performed on a
Philips PW diffractometer. The 6-2th powder spectra did not show
parasitic phases in all cases, up to 10

The density of the ceramics obtained could be varied from 4.8 to 5.8
g/cm3 depending on the compaction of the powder before sintering. In
order to measure by electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) the amount of
parasitic "green" phase Y2BaCuO5 a small quantity, typically 20 mg, was
further ground by milling down to about 20 _m_m to avoid skin effect
corrections. Double integration of the characteristic EPR spectrum at 10
GHz at room temperature was performed. Indeed, after proper calibration
by a pure powder sample of Y2BaCuO5 (and proper corrections for Q
factors of the cavity) this method is sensitive (down to about 100 ppm)
and reliable. We find the important result, shown in Table II and Fig.
1, that the amount of Y2BaCuO5 in our samples is constant, independent
of Zn concentration in the range 0-8

The resistivity measurements were performed by a standard four-point
method, using silver paste as contacts. The accuracy of the measurement
due to the geometry of the silver contacts was +-5

  ------- ------------------- ------------------- ------------------- -------------
           Thermal treatment   Thermal treatment   Thermal treatment  
                 (air)               (air)               (air)             O2
   Batch         first              second               third         oxygenation
                                                                      
     2          pressed             pressed                —             450 °C
                900 °C              950 °C                                12 h
                 16 h                24 h                             
     3          pressed             pressed                —             450 °C
                900 °C              950 °C                                12 h
                 16 h                24 h                             
     4          powder              powder              pressed          350 °C
                920 °C              900 °C              950 °C            10 h
                 15 h                10 h                20 h         
     6          powder              powder              pressed          400 °C
                910 °C              910 °C              950 °C            20 h
                 12 h                12 h                20 h         
  ------- ------------------- ------------------- ------------------- -------------

Table 1: Successive thermal treatments for the different batches of
YBa2(Cu1−_x_Zn_x_)3O7.

case a well-defined Ohm’s law. The temperature was monitored by a
calibrated platinum probe embedded in the Cu mount over which the sample
was pressed with vacuum grease. Great care was taken to avoid thermal
hysteresis due to inherent time constants upon warming or cooling. This
was achieved by changing slowly the height of the probe holder in a
helium container. Reproducibility was obtained to within the scatter of
the data, +-0.05 K.

Magnetic measurements were performed using about 200 mg samples with a
superconducting quantum interference device (SQUID) magnetometer from
0.005 up to 5 T and from 1.9 up to 300 K. However, only the data in the
normal state or slightly below T_(c) are significant since the inherent
(small) inhomogeneities of the field coil make it impractical to measure
with good accuracy superconducting and normal properties in the same
run. Owing to the relatively large quantity of the sample an overall
precision of about 1

## III Results

### Resistivity

Typical results of resistivity versus temperature curves are presented
for a selected number of Zn concentrations, each from the same batch,
i.e., with identical preparation routine, below 1

ρ(x, T) = R(x, T)(S/l)[d(x)/d₀]^(1/3) ,

where _R_(_x_,_T_) is the measured resistance of the sample of section S
and density _d_(_x_), l is the distance between voltage electrodes, and
d0 the x-ray density. However, contrary to the results of Cooper _et
al._15 this procedure gave no obvious correlation between the slope
_d_r/_dT_ and the density ratio _d_(_x_)/_d_0, but rather a monotonic,
approxi

Table 3: Physical parameters of YBa₂Cu₃O₇ in 2D and 3D models.

$$\frac{[M(H,T,x)-M_{211}(H,T)]}{H}$$
$$= \chi_{\rm tot}(x,T) = \chi(x,\infty)+\chi_{C}(x,T)$$
$$= \chi_{\rm dia}+(1-x)\chi_{\rm VV}({\rm Cu})$$
$$+\chi_{\rm spin}(x)+\frac{C(x)}{T-T_{C}(x)}\ \ .$$

As explained in the experimental section, χ(x, ∞) is obtained from
$\chi_{\rm tot}(x,T)$ by the extrapolation to T → ∞ of the Curie term. A
simple way to obtain $\chi_{\rm spin}(x)$ consists in subtracting
$\chi_{\rm dia}({\rm YBa_{2}Cu_{3}O_{7}})=-2.63\times 10^{-7}$ emu G⁻¹
g⁻¹,[23] and further subtracting the powder average of the Van Vleck Cu
term taken from Ref. 25. However, we can expect, _a priori_,
$\chi_{\rm spin}(x)$ to be also anisotropic; thus we write with obvious
notations

$$\chi(x,\infty)= \chi_{\rm dia}({\rm YBa_{2}Cu_{3}O_{7}})+\frac{3}{3}[\chi_{\rm spin }^{ab}(x)+(1-x)\chi_{\rm VV}^{ab}]$$
$$+\frac{1}{3}[\chi_{\rm spin}(x)+(1-x)\chi_{\rm VV}^{c}]\ \ .$$

The anisotropy of χ(x, ∞) along a, b, and c has been measured by Lee and
Johnston;[24] hence, for x = 0,

$$\frac{\chi_{\rm spin}^{ab}+\chi_{\rm VV}^{ab}+\chi_{\rm dia}}{\chi_{\rm spin}^ {c}+\chi_{\rm VV}^{c}+\chi_{\rm dia}}=0.62\pm 0.03\ \ .$$

The two above relations, together with the calculated value[24] of
$\chi_{\rm VV}^{ab}=1.37\times 10^{-7}$ emu G⁻¹ g⁻¹ and
$\chi_{\rm VV}^{c}=3.20\times 10^{-7}$ emu G⁻¹ g⁻¹, allow us to
determine

$$\chi_{\rm spin}({\rm YBa_{2}Cu_{3}O_{7}})= \frac{3}{3}\chi_{\rm spin}^{ab}+\frac{1}{3}\chi_{\rm spin}^{c}$$
$$= (5.38\pm 0.15)\times 10^{-7}\ {\rm emu}\,{\rm G}^{-1}\,{\rm g}^{-1}$$

and the anisotropy ratio
$\chi_{\rm spin}^{ab}/\chi_{\rm spin}^{c}=0.90\pm 0.05$. Fortunately
this set of values turns out to depend in a rather noncritical, almost
linear way on the measured quantities so that the error involved in
their derivation is close to that of the measurements. Thus we make the
important remark the practically all the susceptibility anisotropy of
${\rm YBa_{2}Cu_{3}O_{7}}$ in the normal state is due to that of the Van
Vleck term of Cu; hence the remaining $\chi_{\rm spin}$ is nearly
_isotropic_ in agreement with Batlogg[37] and Mila and Rice.[25]
Furthermore, since $\chi_{\rm spin}(x)$ decreases only slowly with
increasing x, this result appears to hold as well in the presence of Zn
doping. In the rest of this paper we will consider this to be the case
and we will not deal with an anisotropic $\chi_{\rm spin}(x)$.

We can now compare the above value of $\chi_{\rm spin}$ with that
calculated from the bare Pauli susceptibility taking one hole per unit
cell $n=5.78\times 10^{21}\ e^{+}/{\rm cm}^{3}$. We find

$$\chi_{\rm Pauli}^{\rm bare}({\rm YBa_{2}Cu_{3}O_{7}}) = \frac{1}{\pi}\left[\frac{3n}{\pi}\right]^{1/3}\left[\frac{m}{ \pi^{2}}\right]\mu_{B}^{2}$$
$$= 3.97\times 10^{-7}\ \frac{\rm emu}{{\rm G}^{-1}\ {\rm cm}^{-3}}\ \ ,$$

corresponding to 0.62 × 10⁻⁷ emu G⁻¹ g⁻¹ and to a bare density of states
ρ(E_(F)) = 1.3 state/eV f.u. This value is a factor of 9 smaller than
the determined experimentally as above for $\chi_{\rm spin}(x)$ and
would be further diminished by 2^(1/3) (hence a factor of 11.3 instead
of 9) if we assumed only a partial charge transfer of 0.5 electron into
the planes as do Chien, Wang, and Ong.[4]

One brutal way to try to reconcile this order of magnitude discrepancy
is to increase the effective mass ratio m^(⋆)/m.[38] However, if we
adopt this scheme then we expect $\chi_{\rm spin}$ to have the same
anisotropy as that of the conductivity, in contradiction with the above
conclusions and also with the experimental values of the plasma
frequency and the London penetration depth, which are consistent only
with m^(⋆)/m = 2.5 ± 0.5 for $n=1\ e^{+}/{\rm f.u}$.[39] Also contrary
to experimental evidence would be the presence of an (_ad hoc_) large
susceptibility enhancement factor. We find a near agreement within the
normal-metal model between our determination of $\chi_{\rm spin}$ and
the temperature linear coefficient of the specific heat γ as determined
by Loram, Mirza and Freeman.[40] Indeed, γ = 1.6 ± 0.2 mJ/g-at. K⁻²
yields $\gamma_{n}({\rm YBa_{2}Cu_{3}O_{7}})=20.8\pm 2.6$ mJ/mol K⁻². We
express $\chi_{\rm spin}$ and γ_(n) in terms of their respective
densities of states by

$$\rho_{\chi}(E_{F})=\chi_{\rm spin}/\mu_{B}^{2}=11.1\ {\rm state/eV}\,{\rm f.u}.$$

and

$$\rho_{\gamma}(E_{F})=3\gamma_{n}/\pi^{2}k_{B}^{2}=8.8\ {\rm state/eV}\,{\rm f.u}.$$

leading to a Wilson ratio equal to 1.26. We note that the (1+λ) phonon
coupling correction to γ and the spin enhancement factor of
$\chi_{\rm spin}$ will not tend to cancel each other but rather act to
further increase this ratio.

Finally we remark that this value of the spin susceptibility measured
for one mole of Cu (3 atoms Cu/f.u.),
$\chi_{\rm spin}({\rm YBa_{2}Cu_{3}O_{7}})=1.2\times 10^{-4}$ emu/G mol
Cu²⁺, compares in order of magnitude with that of pure paramagnetic CuO
(at room temperature) (Ref. 41),
$\chi({\rm CuO},300\ {\rm K})=2.12\times 10^{-4}$ emu/G mol Cu²⁺, where
the Van Vleck and diamagnetic parts nearly cancel each other.

We summarize this discussion by Table 4 where the susceptibilities of
various cuprates compounds in the normal state are indicated: they
appear to all display the same order of magnitude (per mole Cu),
consistent with a Fermi-liquid model, or suggesting a contribution from
antiferromagnetic fluctuations possibly related to those observed in CuO
above the Neel temperature.[42]

We discuss now the change of $\chi_{\rm spin}(x)$ as a function of
doping with Zn. As shown in Fig. 12 the measured value of
$\chi_{\rm spin}(x)$ decreases linearly with x at a rate

  ------------------------------------- -------------------------- --------------
                Compounds                $\chi_{\rm tot}$ (300 K)  
           (emu G⁻¹/mol Cu²⁺)                   Reference          
                   CuO                         2.12 × 10⁻⁴               40
                 La₂CuO₄                       0.58 × 10⁻⁴               24
          La_(1.9)Sr_(6.1)CuO₄                 1.53 × 10⁻⁴               24
                YBa₂Cu₃O₆                      0.43 × 10⁻⁴               24
                YBa₂Cu₃O₇                      1.05 × 10⁻⁴          Present work
   (${\rm Tl_{0.9}}$Pb_(0.3)Sr₂CaCu₃O₇         1.07 × 10⁻⁴               45
  ------------------------------------- -------------------------- --------------

Table 4: Comparison of the temperature-independent susceptibility of
different compounds.

$d\chi_{\rm spin}/dx=(-1.3\pm 0.2)\times 10^{-8}$ emu G-1 g-1

$$\begin{array}{l} \left[ {d\chi_{\rm spin}/dx} \right]_{\rm dilution}\\ = \left( {-0.56\pm 0.2} \right)\times 10^{-8}\ {\rm emu}\ {\rm G}^{-1}\,{\rm g}^{-1}\,{\rm \%}^{-1}\ .\end{array}$$

At this point it is important to be aware that the way we have defined
the Curie contribution supposes that the Pauli susceptibility remains
temperature independent with Zn doping. This is no longer true when the
weak-localization limit is reached. In this case, the 3D correction
$\Delta\chi_{\rm spin}(x)$ to the susceptibility35 enables us to
calculate the ratio $\Delta\chi_{\rm spin}(x)/\chi_{\rm spin}(x)$ for
one unit cell as

$$\Delta\chi_{\rm spin}(x)/\chi_{\rm spin}(x)=\frac{3}{2}\frac{U}{E_{F}}(k_{f}l )^{-3/2}\left[\frac{k_{B}T}{E_{F}}\right]^{1/2}\ ,$$

where U is the Stoner factor found from the field-dependent part of the
Hartree term of the free energy. The correction is at most of the order
of 10-2 at T = 100 K with (_U_/_E__F_) = 0.1 and k_(F) l = 1 and does
not appreciably change our conclusions.

In the next section we will concentrate on the Curie term appearing
associated with the Zn site. In order to reconcile this decrease of
$\chi_{\rm spin}(x)$ with the associated emergence of the Curie
susceptibility we first calculate the expected relation between the
change of the average Pauli susceptibility and that of the Curie
constant in a jellium model (with one electron per site) where we
suppose that the effect of replacing one atom of the jellium by one
vacancy of concentration x results in a free magnetic moment (at the
expense of the local hole density). Thus

$$\chi_{\rm Pauli}(x)=\mu_{B}^{2}\rho_{\rm jellium}(E_{F})(1-x)$$

and

C(x) = μ_(B)²Nx/3k_(B)

(_N_ is the number of sites per unit volume), which expresses that the
Pauli susceptibility is not modified in the bulk but is suppressed on
the site of the vacancy; the resulting localized electron gives rise to
the Curie constant. The relation sought is

$$\frac{\Delta\chi_{\rm Pauli}/\Delta x}{\Delta C/\Delta x}=-3k_{B}\rho_{\rm jellium}(E_{F})/N=\frac{9}{2}\ \left[\frac{n}{N}\right]\frac{1}{T_{F}}$$

taking $\rho_{\rm jellium}(E_{F})=3n/2k_{B}T_{F}$, where n is the number
of carriers per unit volume and T_(F) the jellium Fermi temperature. We
find Δχ/ΔC = −3.3 × 10⁻⁴ K-1, with T_(F) = 13 620 K and n = N. In order
to compare this number with our measurements we take into account the
following factors:

(i) _n_/_N_ = 1/3 for YBa2Cu3O7;

(ii) the density of states to be used is a factor 8.54 larger than
obtained from the calculated Pauli susceptibility;

(iii) the magnetic moment associated with the Curie term is only 0.64
m_(B).

With these appropriate factors we calculate Δχ/ΔC = −2.2 × 10⁻³ K-1, to
be compared with Fig. 14 where the slope is Δχ/ΔC = −(4.4 ± 0.3)×10⁻³
K-1. This order of magnitude agreement is quite encouraging for a local
model associated with the effect of Zn in [CuO2] planes.

If the Wilson ratio found for x = 0 is not modified by the presence of
Zn since Zn is modeled to have only a local effect on each site, then
one should expect γ_(n)(x) to decrease in a similar way as
$\chi_{\rm spin}(x)$. It is not obvious whether the present accuracy of
the specific-heat measurement can be sensitive to the 20

A support to our present finding is given by the measurements46 of the
temperature-independent susceptibility of YBa2Cu3O7 $\rm YBa_{Cu}$3O6
[$\chi_{\rm spin}(4\%)=2.3\times 10^{-7}$ emu G-1 g-1]. It is found in
this case46 that the high-temperature limit of susceptibility decreases
from YBa2Cu3O6 [$\chi_{\rm spin}(0\%)=2.7\times 10^{-7}$ emu G-1 g-1] at
a rate $d\chi_{\rm spin}/dx=-1.1\times 10^{-8}$ emu G-1 g-1

In order to go further in the interpretation of the magnetic properties
of Zn in YBa2Cu3O7 one needs a microscopic model of Zn dissolved in a
[CuO2] plane, which we lack. Hence the following considerations might
only serve as a general guide for such a model. The most glaring
questions are first how the presence of Zn leads to the appearance of a
magnetic moment and secondly where does this magnetic moment appear? If
the Zn atom site is discarded (as already shown by Cieplak _et al_.36 on
La1.85Sr0.15CuO4 using Zn, Ga, and Al as dopants) then, by symmetry, the
first four Cu neighbors are the most likely to be involved. This
extended Zn perturbation effect is indeed allowed by the size of the
scattering cross section measured which encompasses the first Cu
neighbors. This is further strongly suggested by the presence of
satellites of the 89Y NMR line separated from the main NMR line by a
local average hyperfine field following a Curie law.44 Accepting the
idea (originally proposed by Arai and Shimizu1 on the basis of magnetic
and transport properties of Fe-doped YBCO) that the magnetic moment
might be distributed among the four Cu near-neighbor sites implies that
each Cu moment is only 0.32_m__B_ per site
($N_{\rm Zn}\mu_{\rm Zn}^{2}$=4$N_{\rm Zn}\mu_{\rm Cu}^{2}$). It also
implies that these four moments experience a ferromagnetic coupling
since they are related by the second-neighbor position with each other
(Fig. 17). This next-nearest-neighbor fer romagnetic coupling should be
related to that of the bulk [CuO₂] planes and is proposed to be
primarily responsible for the observed Curie temperature T_(C)(x). On
this basis, it is quite tempting to give the following interpretation to
the observed decrease of the Curie temperature with increasing x. Each
isolated Zn sites induces a magnetic moment composed of four
near-neighbor Cu atoms each contributing 0.32μ_(B). These four moments
experience a ferromagnetic coupling resulting in a Curie temperature
T_(C)(x → 0) ≅ (57 ± 6). K. Upon increasing the Zn concentration these
moments begin to experience the long-distance spin-spin interaction
resulting in an antiferromagnetic average quite similar to the situation
in spin glasses [47]. The observed decrease of the Curie temperature
with x is then simply due to the superposition of a fixed, short-range
ferromagnetic coupling and a variable, long-range antiferromagnetic one.
This qualitative model does not explain why these two opposite effects
should compensate each other for x = 10% but does predict that the
low-temperature magnetic state at this concentration should be
spin-glass-like, although the (apparent) Curie temperature vanishes.

## V Conclusion

In this work we have performed transport and magnetic measurements of Zn
dissolved in YBCO in order to get a more detailed knowledge of the
effect of Zn in the normal state and possibly in the superconducting
state of YBCO. We first observe that T_(c) is indeed strongly suppressed
by Zn at a rate of 8.8 K/

The paradoxical appearance of a magnetic moment associated with the
presence of Zn doping leads to an average magnetic moment of
0.64μ_(B)/Zn according to the measured Curie constant as a function of x
with, however, a scatter in the observed values which might imply that
not all the Zn atoms are localized in the [CuO₂] planes. This scatter is
reduced by comparing the decrease of the temperature-independent spin
susceptibility to the increase of the Curie constant for each
concentration, consistent with a localized model for the Zn
perturbation. This model implies that the four near-neighbor Cu sites
are magnetic (with 0.32μ_(B)/Cu) and experience a ferromagnetic coupling
between them together with the more usual long-distance
antiferromagnetic coupling to other Zn sites.

Thus is appears that YBa₂(Cu_(1 − x)Zn_(x))₃O₇ behaves in a way quite
similar to that observed in La_(1.85)Sr_(0.15)CuO₄ for Zn and other
a_priori_ nonmagnetic dopants such as Ga and Al which also strongly
suppresses the superconductivity. There is at present no microscopic
model of these effects: this work (and the preceding ones) show that we
deal here with a rather fundamental and original aspect of the
high-temperature superconducting materials as compared to classical
superconductors.

###### Acknowledgements.

We are grateful for numerous discussions with our colleagues in Orsay,
Saclay, and Paris, particularly P. Mendels, H. Alloul, G. Collin, R.
Villeneuve, A. Revcolevschi, A. George, M. Gabay, and N. Bontemps. We
are indebted to J. Imry, A. Abrikosov, J. R. Cooper, and E. Abrahams for
illuminating a number of points and to N. Bontemps for a critical
reading of the manuscript. We thank K. Semba and D. J. C. Walker for
sending us copies of their work before publication. This work is
supported by the NEDO grant "Short coherence length in HTSC."

## References

* [1] J. Arai and H. Shimizu, Physica C **161**, 475 (1989). * [2] T.
Tommasa, Y. Nakamichi, and K. Kumagai, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **59**, 3471
(1990); C. Y. Yang, A. R. Moodenbaugh, Y. L. Wang, Y. Xu, S. M. Heald,
and D. O. Welch, Phys. Rev. B **42**, 2231 (1990). * [3] R. Liang, T.
Nakamura, H. Kawaji, M. Itoh, and T. Nakamura, Physica C **170**, 307
(1990). * [4] T. R. Chien, Z. Z. Wang, and N. P. Ong, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**67**,

Figure 17: Model for Zn impurity environment in CuO₂ plane of
YBa₂(Cu_(1 − x)Zn_(x))₃O₇. The four near-neighbor Cu sites are within
the limit of the 2D resistivity cross section diameter and are supposed
to bear a magnetic moment of 0.32μ_(B). The dotted lines indicate a
ferromagnetic coupling and the continuous line an antiferromagnetic
coupling. The remaining part of the CuO₂ plane is supposed unaffected.

2088 (1991). * [2] Gang Xiao, M. Z. Cieplak, J. Q. Xiao, and C. L.
Chien, Phys. Rev. B **42**, 8752 (1990). * [3] Gang Xiao, M. Z. Cieplak,
and C. L. Chien, Phys. Rev. B **42**, 240 (1990). * [4] T. Nakano, M.
Oda, C. Manabe, N. Momono, Y. Miura, and M. Ido, Phys. Rev. B **49**, 16
000 (1994). * [5] H. Alloul, T. Ohno, H. Casalta, J. F. Marucco, P.
Mendels, J. Arabski, G. Collin, and M. Mehbod, Physica C **171**, 419
(1990). * [6] P. Mendels, H. Alloul, J. F. Marucco, J. Arabski, and G.
Collin, Physica C **171**, 429 (1990). * [7] H. Alloul, P. Mendels, H.
Casalta, J. F. Marucco, and J. Arabski, Phys. Rev. Lett. **67**, 3140
(1991). * [8] P. Mendels, H. Alloul, J. H. Brewer, G. D. Morris, T. L.
Duty, S. Johnston, E. J. Ansaldo, G. Collin, J. F. Marucco, C.
Niedermayer, D. R. Noakes, and C. E. Stronach, Phys. Rev. B **49**, 10
035 (1994). * [9] Gang Xiao, M. Z. Cieplak, D. Musser, A. Gavrin, F. H.
Streitz, C. L. Chien, J. J. Rhyne, and J. A. Gotaas, Nature **332**, 238
(1988). * [10] T. Tamegai, and Y. Iye, Phys. Rev. B **44**, 10 167
(1991); D. J. C. Walker, A. P. Mackenzie, and J. R. Cooper
(unpublished). * [11] R. Cooper, Supercond. Sci. Technol. **4**, 8181
(1991). * [12] J. R. Cooper, S. D. Obertelli, P. A. Freeman, D. N.
Zheng, J. W. Loram, and W. Y. Liang, Supercond. Sci. Technol. **4**,
5277 (1991). * [13] J. M. Tarascon, P. Barboux, P. F. Miceli, L. H.
Greene, and G. W. Hull, Phys. Rev. B **37**, 7458 (1988). * [14] R.
Villeneuve and G. Collin (private communication). * [15] L. Raffo, F.
Licci, and A. Migliori, Phys. Rev. B **48**, 1192 (1993). * [16] A. M.
Finkelstein, V. E. Kataev, E. F. Kukovitskii, and G. B. Teitel’baum,
Physica C **168**, 370 (1990). * [17] G. Ilonca, M. Mehbod, A.
Lanckbeen, and R. Deltour, Phys. Rev. B **47**, 15 265 (1993). * [18]
Gang Xiao, A. Bakhshai, M. Z. Cieplak, Z. Tesanovic, and C. L. Chien,
Phys. Rev. B **39**, 315 (1989). * [19] Note that the temperature range
of the fit is restricted as explained above. * [20] M. Takigawa, P. C.
Hammel, R. H. Heffner, Z. Fisk, J. L. Smith, and R. B. Schwarz, Phys.
Rev. B **39**, 300 (1989). * [21] W. C. Lee and D. C. Johnston, Phys.
Rev. B **41**, 1904 (1990). * [22] F. Mila and T. M. Rice, Physica C
**157**, 561 (1989). * [23] K. Semba and A. Matsuda, Phys. Rev. B
**49**, 10 043 (1994). * [24] Rolf Landauer, J. Appl. Phys. **23**, 779
(1952); D. Stroud, Phys. Rev. B **12**, 3368 (1975). * [25] B. Wuyts, E.
Osquiguil, M. Maenhoudt, S. Libbrecht, Z. X. Gao, and Y. Bruynseraede,
Phys. Rev. B **47**, 5512 (1993). * [26] We note that a twofold increase
dρ/dT is observed when measuring the resistivity of pure YBCO samples as
a function of oxygen depletion from O₇ to O_(6, 6) without a measurable,
systematic increase of the residual resistivity defined by extrapolation
to T=0 of the normal resistivity. * [27] M. Gabay (private
communication). * [28] S. Chakravarty, B. I. Halperin, and D. R. Nelson,
Phys. Rev. B **39**, 2344 (1989). * [29] Gang Xiao, J. Q. Xiao, C. L.
Chien, and M. Z. Cieplak, Phys. Rev. B **43**, 1245 (1991). * [30] S.
Zagoulaev and I. I. Tupitsin (unpublished). * [31] A. F. Ioffe and A. R.
Regel, Prog. Semicond. **4**, 237 (1960). * [32] H. Fukuyama, in
_Localization, Interaction, and Transport Phenomena_, edited by B.
Kramer, G. Bergmann, and Y. Bruynseraede, Springer Series in Solid-State
Sciences Vol. 61 (Springer-Verlag, Berlin, 1985); P. Lee and T. V.
Ramakrishnan, Rev. Mod. Phys. **57**, 287 (1985). * [33] M. Z. Cieplak,
S. Guha, H. Kojima, P. Lindenfeld, Gang Xiao, J. Q. Xiao, and C. L.
Chien, Phys. Rev. B **46**, 5536 (1992). * [34] B. Batlogg, Physica B
**169**, 7 (1991). * [35] Y. Iye _et al._, Physica C **153-155**, 26
(1988). * [36] T. Timusk and D. Tanner, in _Physical Properties of HTSC
I_, edited by D. Ginsberg (World Scientific, Singapore, 1988), p. 339. *
[37] W. Loram, K. A. Mirza, and P. F. Freeman, Physica C **171**, 243
(1990). * [38] C. B. Azzoni, A. Paleari, and G. B. Parravicini, J. Phys.
Condens. Matter **4**, 1359 (1992). * [39] T. Imai, C. P. Slichter, K.
Yoshimura, and K. Kosuge, Phys. Rev. Lett. **70**, 1002 (1993). * [40]
Y. Kitaoka, K. Ischida, G.-Q. Zheng, S. Ohsugi, and K. Asayama, J. Phys.
Chem. Solids **54**, 1385 (1993). * [41] A. V. Mahajan, H. Alloul, G.
Collin, and J. F. Marucco, Phys. Rev. Lett. **72**, 3100 (1994). * [42]
A. Trokiner, P. V. Bellot, and S. Zagoulaev (private communication). *
[43] P. Mendels (private communication). * [44] In principle, this
simple behavior should also be altered when reaching the onset of
localization: this is expected to influence only the two higher
concentration points on Fig. 13.

Figure 17: Model for Zn impurity environment in CuO₂ plane of
YBa₂(Cu_(1 − x)Zn_(x))₃O₇. The four near-neighbor Cu sites are within
the limit of the 2D resistivity cross section diameter and are supposed
to bear a magnetic moment of 0.32μ_(B). The dotted lines indicate a
ferromagnetic coupling and the continuous line an antiferromagnetic
coupling. The remaining part of the CuO₂ plane is supposed unaffected.
