Disorder-sensitive superconductivity in the doped iron silicide
superconductor (Lu1-_x_R_x_)2Fe3Si5 (_R_ = Sc, Y, and Dy)

Tadataka Watanabe, Hiroki Sasame, Hiroaki Okuyama, Kouichi Takase, and
Yoshiki Takano

Department of Physics, College of Science and Technology (CST), Nihon
University, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 101-8308, Japan

###### Abstract

We studied the effect of nonmagnetic and magnetic impurities on
superconductivity in Lu₂Fe₅Si₅ by small-amount substitution of the Lu
site and investigated structural, magnetic, and electrical properties of
nonmagnetic (Lu1-Sc)₂Fe₅Si₅, (Lu1-x Y)₂Fe₅Si₅, and magnetic
(Lu1-Ly)₃₂Fe₅Si₅. The rapid depression of T_(c) by nonmagnetic
impurities in accordance with the increase in the residual resistivity
reveals the strong pair breaking dominated by disorder.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.80.100502 PACS number(s): 74.20.Rp, 74.62.Dh,
74.70.Dd, 74.25.Jb + Footnote †: preprint: APS/123-QED

Recent discovery of high-T_(c) superconductivity in the FeAs systems has
shed a brilliant light on Fe-based substances as a rich vein of new
exotic superconductors.[1] In addition to deeper studies of the FeAs
systems, it is also indispensable to explore the exotic
superconductivity in Fe-based substances other than the FeAs family.
Ternary iron silicide Lu₂Fe₅Si₅ is a non-FeAs-family superconductor
discovered in 1980.[2] This compound crystallizes in the tetragonal
Sc₂Fe₅Si₅-type structure consisting of a quasi-one-dimensional iron
chain along the c axis and quasi-two-dimensional iron squares parallel
to the basal plane.[3] The superconductivity occurs at T_(c)=6.0 K,
which is exceptionally high among the Fe-based compounds other than the
FeAs family. According to Mossbauer experiments, Fe atoms in Lu₂Fe₅Si₅
carry no magnetic moment.[4] Taking into account the absence of
superconductivity in the isoelectronic Lu₂Ru₂Si₅ and Lu₂O₅Si₅,[5] Fe 3d
electrons in Lu₂Fe₅Si₅ should play significant role in the occurrence of
the superconductivity.

To unveil the pairing mechanism of the exotic superconductivity, it is
crucial to determine the superconducting gap function. In Lu₂Fe₅Si₅,
recent measurements of specific heat[6] and penetration depth[7]
reported the evidence for two-gap superconductivity, similar to MgB₂
which is considered to be a two-gap _s_-wave superconductor.[8] The
Josephson effect suggested the spin-singlet superconductivity in
Lu₂Fe₅Si₅,[9] On the other hand, past experimental studies in Lu₂Fe₅Si₅
reported peculiar superconducting properties which are different from
MgB₂: for instance, a power-law temperature dependence of specific heat
below T_(c) (Ref. [10]) and a remarkable depression of T_(c) by
nonmagnetic impurities.[11, 12] In addition, recent photoemission
spectroscopy in the superconducting state observed the gap opening
without distinct coherence peaks implying the nodal structure,[13] in
contrast to the two coherence peaks clearly observed in MgB₂.[14] It
should be noted that "cleanliness" in terms of the electron mean-free
path is necessary and common conditions to the occurrence of the
multigap and the non-s-wave (e.g., _p_- or _d_-wave)
superconductivities, and thus these are co-occurrable in the "clean"
system.[15] In the multigap system, we should also take into account
another possibility of the extended _s_-wave (s_(±)-wave)
superconductivity in which the sign of the order parameter changes
between the different Fermi sheets. This has recently been supposed as a
possible pairing symmetry for the FeAs systems, both theoretically[16]
and experimentally.[17] The recent and the past experimental reports in
Lu₂Fe₅Si₅ require studies on verification of the sign reversal of the
superconducting order parameter.

The effect of impurity scattering is sensitive to the phase of the
superconducting gap function.[18] The _s_-wave superconductivity is
robust against nonmagnetic impurities while strongly suppressed by
magnetic impurities. On the contrary, the non-_s_-wave even-parity
superconductivity, with the presence of nodes in the gap, is sensitive
to both nonmagnetic and magnetic impurities. The s_(±)-wave
superconductivity, with the sign change of the order parameter between
the different Fermi sheets, is expected to exhibit the impurity effects
similar to the non-_s_-wave even-parity superconductivity.[19]

This Rapid Communication reports study of nonmagnetic and magnetic
impurity effects on the superconductivity of Lu₂Fe₅Si₅ by small-amount
substitution of nonmagnetic Sc, Y, and magnetic Dy for Lu. Earlier, a
brief account of magnetic susceptibility studies in the solid solutions
(Lu1-_x_R_x_)2Fe₅Si₅ (_R_ = Sc, Y, and Dy-Tm) was reported in which
T_(c) was depressed with R substitutions.[12] The present study
particularly takes interest in the effect of disorder on the
superconductivity in Lu₂Fe₅Si₅, and we study the correlation between
T_(c) and the residual resistivity. We investigate structural, magnetic,
and electrical properties of polycrystalline (Lu1-_x_R_x_)2Fe₅Si₅ (_R_ =
Sc, Y, and Dy). In addition, we investigate anisotropy of electrical
resistivity in a high-purity Lu₂Fe₅Si₅ single crystal, motivations of
which are described later with the results.

Polycrystals of (Lu1-_x_Sc)₂Fe₅Si₅, (Lu1-_x_Y_x_)2Fe₅Si₅ (x =0⋅0.07 and
1), and (Lu1-Ly)₃₂Fe₅Si₅ (x=0⋅0.05 and 1) were prepared by arc melting
stoichiometric amounts of high-purity elements in Zr-gettered Ar
atmosphere. To ensure the sample homogeneity, the arc melting was
repeated with turning over the melted ingot for more than ten times. A
high-purity single crystal of Lu₂Fe₅Si₅ was grown by the floating-zone
method. The polycrystalline and the single-crystalline samples were
annealed at 1050 degC for 2 weeks. Powder x-ray diffraction patterns
showed that all the samples crystallize in the Sc₂Fe₅Si₅-type structure
without any additional peak. dc magnetic susceptibilities and electrical
resistivities were measured by using the Quantum Design Physical
Property Measurement System.

Figure 1 depicts the unit-cell volumes of (Lu1-,Sc3,)2Fe5Si5,
(Lu1-Y,Y)2Fe5Si5, and (Lu1-,Dy3)2Fe5Si5 as functions of the impurity
concentration x. The Vegard’s law lines expected from the unit-cell
volumes of Lu2Fe5Si5 (576.7 A), Sc2Fe5Si5 (553.4 A), Y3Fe5Si5 (597.1 A),
and Dy2Fe5Si5 (595.7 A) are also presented. It is evident that all the
samples obey Vegard’s law: the unit-cell volume increases with x in
(Lu1-,Y)2Fe5Si5 and (Lu1-,Dy3)2Fe5Si5, while it decreases with x in
(Lu1-,Sc3,)2Fe5Si5. These results ensure that Y, Sc, and Dy atoms are
properly introduced as impurities into the parent Lu2Fe5Si5 phase with
the Lu-site substitutions.

Figure 2 depicts the magnetic susceptibilities of the polycrystalline
Lu2Fe5Si5, (Lu1-,Y)2Fe5Si5 (_x_=0.05), (Lu1-,Sc3,)2Fe5Si5 (_x_=0.07),
and (Lu1-,Dy3)2Fe5Si5 (_x_=0.03 and 0.05) as functions of temperature
with _H_=10 000 Oe. (Lu1-,Dy3)2Fe5Si5 exhibits the pronounced Curie tail
due to the inclusion of the magnetic Dy atoms, in contrast to the
nonmagnetic behavior in Lu2Fe5Si5, (Lu1-,Y)2Fe5Si5, and
(Lu1-,Sc3,)2Fe5Si5. Here, we estimate the concentration of Dy atoms in
the present (Lu1-,Dy3)2Fe5Si5 from the Curie-Weiss behavior. The
magnetic moment of Dy atom in Dy2Fe5Si5 estimated from the Curie-Weiss
behavior is _m_=10.4m, which is close to the free-ion value
(_m_=10.6_m_). Using m = 10.4m, the Curie-Weiss analysis tells us that
3.07

The electrical resistivities of single-crystalline Lu2Fe5Si5 are
presented in Fig. 3 as functions of temperature. Superconducting
transition occurs at _T__c_=6.1 and 5.8 K in the single-crystalline and
the polycrystalline samples, respectively. For the single crystal, we
investigate the anisotropy of the resistivity with the current I
parallel and perpendicular to the crystal c axis, _I_[[001] and
_I_][[110], respectively. As shown in Fig. 3, the _c_-axis resistivity
_r_^(ρ) is less than one third of the in-plane resistivity _r_^(ρ)_ab in
the whole temperature range. The normal-state residual resistivities are
_r_₀^(ρ)=7.0 _m_Ω and _r_₀^(ρ)=22 _m_Ω cm, respectively. At 300 K, the
polycrystalline resistivity _r_^(ρ) exhibits an intermediate value
between the single-crystalline _r_^(ρ) and _r_^(ρ)_ab_, _r_^(ρ)(300 K)
<_r_^(ρ)(300 K) <_r_^(ρ)(300 K). _r_^(ρ)(300 K) is close to but smaller
than _r_^(ρ)(300 K), indicating that _r_^(ρ) is a weighted average of
_r_^(ρ) and _r_^(ρ)_ab_ which dominantly picks up _r_^(ρ)_ab as a
component rather than _r_^(ρ). As the temperature is lowered below  140
K, _r_^(ρ) becomes slightly larger than _r_^(ρ)_ab_. The normal-state
residual resistivity of the polycrystal is _r_₀^(ρ) =30 _m_Ω cm, which
is larger than _r_₀^(ρ) and _r_₀^(ρ), indicating that the polycrystal is
"dirty" compared to the single crystal in terms of the electron
mean-free path.

The inset to Fig. 3 shows the low-temperature resistivities _r_^(ρ),
_r_^(ρ)_ab_, and _r_^(ρ)_normalized to the values at 300 K,
_r_^(ρ)(_T_)/_r_^(ρ)(300 K). It is evident that _r_^(ρ) and _r_^(ρ)_ab_
exhibit almost identical _r_(_T_)/_r_^(ρ)(300 K): for the residual
resistivities _r_₀^(ρ) and _r_₀^(ρ), _r_^(ρ)(300 K) = 0.04. Since
_r_(T)/_r_^(ρ)(300 K) cancels the

Figure 2: (Color online) The magnetic susceptibilities of
polycrystalline Lu2Fe5Si5, (Lu1-,Y)2Fe5Si5 (_x_=0.05),
(Lu1-,Dy3)2Fe5Si5, and (Lu1-,Dy3)2Fe5Si5 as functions of impurity
concentration x. Solid, dotted, and dashed lines denote the Vegard’s law
in (Lu1-,Sc3,)2Fe5Si5, (Lu1-,Y)2Fe5Si5, and (Lu1-,Dy3)2Fe5Si5,
respectively.

Figure 3: (Color online) The electrical resistivity of
single-crystalline (_I_[[001] and _I_][[110]) and polycrystalline
Lu2Fe5Si5 as functions of temperature. Inset shows the low-temperature
resistivities normalized to the values at 300 K.

contribution of the carrier density, and purely sees the variation in
the electron mean-free path, the isotropy of ρ(T)/ρ(300  K) in the
single crystal indicates the isotropy of the electron mean-free path.
Thus, it is ensured that the normalized resistivity ρ(T)/ρ(300  K) is a
good measure of the electron mean-free path regardless of single crystal
and polycrystal in Lu₂Fe₃Si₅. Similar to the "absolute" residual
resistivities ρ₀², ρ₀², and ρ₀^(ab), the normalized residual resistivity
ρ₀/ρ(300  K) in the inset to Fig. 3 tells us that the polycrystalline
Lu₂Fe₃Si₅ is dirty compared to the single crystal.

On the basis of the isotropic electron mean-free path revealed by the
single-crystalline resistivities, we now study the influence of disorder
on the superconductivity in Lu₂Fe₃Si₅ by investigating the variation in
T_(c) with ρ₀/ρ(300  K) in the polycrystalline samples. Figures 4(a) and
4(b) depict the normalized resistivity ρ(T)/ρ(300  K) of nonmagnetic
(Lu_(1 − x)Y_(x))₂Fe₃Si₅ and (Lu_(1 − x)Sc_(x))₂Fe₃Si₅ as a function of
temperature, respectively. Figure 4(a) also displays ρ(T)/ρ(300 K) of
magnetic (Lu_(1 − y)Dy_(x))₂Fe₃Si₅. It is noteworthy that the small
amount of the Lu-site substitution in nonmagnetic
(Lu_(1 − x)Y_(x))₂Fe₃Si₅ and (Lu_(1 − x)Sc_(x))₂Fe₃Si₅ rapidly depresses
T_(c) with the systematic increase in the residual resistivity. Here, we
would like to comment on the chemical pressure effect on T_(c) in
Lu₂Fe₃Si₅. The unit-cell volume variations in Fig. 1 tell us that Y and
Sc substitutions for Lu apply negative and positive chemical pressures,
respectively. It is noted that T_(c) of Y₂Fe₃Si₅ and Lu₂Fe₃Si₅ under
hydrostatic pressure exhibits positive and negative pressure
coefficients, dT_(c)/dp > 0 and dT_(c)/dp < 0, respectively.[20] These
T_(c) variations imply that both the negative and the positive pressures
might favor T_(c) in Lu₂Fe₃Si₅. However, considering the difference of
T_(c) in Lu₂Fe₃Si₅ (6.1 K) −Y₂Fe₃Si₅ (2.6 K), and Lu₂Fe₃Si₅−Sc₂Fe₃Si₅
(4.6 K) the expected decreases in T_(c) by the chemical pressure for
(Lu_(1 − x)Y_(x))₂Fe₃Si₅ and (Lu_(1 − x)Sc_(x))₂Fe₃Si₅ at x = 0.07 are
ΔT_(c) =  − 0.25 and −0.1 K, respectively. These values are much smaller
than the T_(c) depression of (Lu_(1 − x)Y_(x))₂Fe₃Si₅ and
(Lu_(1 − x)Sc_(x))₂Fe₃Si₅ in Fig. 4; ΔT_(c) =  − 2.5 K at x = 0.07.
Thus, we conclude that the rapid T_(c) depressions of Lu₂Fe₃Si₅ in Fig.
4 are dominated by the pair breaking by impurities. And the present
results clearly indicate that the _introduction of disorder gives rise
to the nonpolar breaking in_ Lu₂Fe₃Si₅. For magnetic
(Lu_(1 − x)Dy_(x))₂Fe₃Si₅, T_(c) is also steeply depressed with the Dy
doping. Comparing the Dy- and the Y-doped samples at x = 0.05, which
exhibit almost the same residual resistivities, T_(c) = 3.8 K of
(Lu_(0.95)Dy_(0.05))₂Fe₃Si₅ is a little lower than T_(c)=4.2 K of
Lu_(0.95)Y_(0.05))₂Fe₃Si₅. In (Lu_(1 − x)Dy_(x))₂Fe₃Si₅, as evident from
Fig. 2, the Dy doping introduces the magnetic scattering potential. Thus
the pair breaking in (Lu_(1 − x)Dy_(x))₂Fe₃Si₅ a little stronger than
(Lu_(1 − x)Y_(x))₂Fe₃Si₅ is attributed to the magnetic scattering, which
is compatible with the spin-singlet pairing in Lu₂Fe₃Si₅.[9]

Figure 5 displays nonmagnetic and magnetic impurity effects on T_(c) in
Lu₂Fe₃Si₅ (this work) compared with MgB₂.[21] For MgB₂, the T_(c)
depression by nonmagnetic impurities (Zn) is negligibly small while
magnetic impurities (Mn) strongly depress T_(c), indicative of the
s-wave pairing. Lu₂Fe₃Si₅, on the other hand, exhibits a strong T_(c)
depression with doping regardless of nonmagnetic and magnetic
impurities. As already mentioned in conjunction with Fig. 4, T_(c) of
Lu₂Fe₃Si₅ rapidly depressed by nonmagnetic impurities in accordance with
the increase in the residual resistivity. Such a disorder-sensitive
superconductivity compellingly suggests the _sign reversal of the
superconducting order parameter_.

In the sign-reversal order parameter, it is expected that the pair
breaking by disorder results in vanishing of T_(c) at a critical
residual resistivity ρ₀(0) in which the electron mean-free path l₀ is on
the order of the superconducting coherence length ξ₀ (l₀ = ξ₀). The
inset to Fig. 5 shows the T_(c) depression of Lu₂Fe₃Si₅ as a function of
the normalized residual resistivity ρ₀/ρ(300 K). The dotted line in this
figure is a linear fit to the experimental plots of nonmagnetic

Figure 4: (Color online) Temperature dependence of the normalized
resistivity ρ(T)/ρ(300 K) for (a) (Lu_(1 − x)Y_(x))₂Fe₃Si₅ and
(La_(1 − x)Dy_(x))₂Fe₃Si₅ and (b) (Lu_(1 − x)Sc_(x))₂Fe₃Si₅.

Figure 5: (Color online) The T_(c) depression of Lu₂Fe₃Si₅ as a function
of nonmagnetic (Y,Sc) and magnetic (Dy) impurity concentrations x.
Nonmagnetic (Zn) and magnetic (Mn) impurity effects on T_(c) in MgB₂
(Ref. [21]) are displayed for comparison. Inset shows the T_(c)
depression of Lu₂Fe₃Si₅ as a function of the normalized residual
resistivity ρ₀/ρ(300 K).

(Lu_(1 − x)Y${}_{\rm J}$)₂Fe₃Si₅ and (Lu_(1 − x)Sc_(x))₂Fe₃Si₅.
Extrapolating this line to T_(c)=0 expects that the superconductivity
disappears at ρ₀(0)/ρ(300 K) = 0.3. For the estimation of the critical
residual resistivity ρ₀(0), we assume that the temperature-dependent
part of the resistivity, Δρ(T)=ρ(T) − ρ₀, is independent of the small
amount of the nonmagnetic impurities. And we utilize Δρ(300 K) of the
single-crystalline Lu₂Fe₃Si₅ in Fig. 3 for the ρ₀(0) estimation: c-axis
Δρ^(c)(300 K) =158 μΩ cm and in-plane Δρ^(ab)(300 K) = 513 μΩ cm,
respectively. Using these Δρ(300 K) values, ρ₀(0)/(300 K) =
ρ₀(0)/[ρ₀(0) + Δρ(300 K)] = 0.3 leads to the critical residual
resistivities, c-axis ρ₀^(c)(0)=68 μΩ cm and in-plane ρ₀^(ab)(0)=220 μΩ
cm, respectively.

Concerning the in-plane ρ₀^(ab)(0)=220 μΩ cm, we would like to roughly
estimate the corresponding electron mean-free path l₀^(ab) by using the
formula l₀^(ab) = h(3π²)¹³/[e²n^(2/3)ρ₀^(ab)(0)]. For Lu₂Fe₃Si₅, the
in-plane Hall coefficient in low temperatures, R_(H)≈ 1.5×10⁻⁹
M⁻⁵^(−1, 6) leads to 1/R_(H)≈ 4.2×10²⁷ m⁻³. Substituting this 1/R_(H)ϵ
value for the carrier density n in the above l₀^(ab) formula calculates
l₀^(ab)=22 A. On the other hand, the upper critical field μ₀H_(c)(2)≈13
T with H∣c in Lu₂Fe₃Si₅ (Refs. 6 and 7) calculates the in-plane
coherence length ξ₀^(ab)≈ 50 A. These l₀^(ab) and ξ₀^(ab) are comparable
within an order of magnitude, but l₀^(ab)<ξ₀^(ab). We note here that the
temperature-dependent R_(H) in Lu₂Fe₃Si₅ is indicative of the multiband
feature.[6] In the multiband system, 1/R_(H)ϵ is no longer the correct
expression for the carrier density and might become larger than the true
carrier density when the contributions of electron and hole bands cancel
each other in R_(H).[22] The smaller l₀^(ab) than ξ₀^(ab) might be
attributed to the overestimation of n due to the multiband feature.

The present study provides a strong evidence for the sign reversal of
the superconducting order parameter in the multigap structure in
Lu₂Fe₃Si₅. However, the present study is insufficient to distinguish
between the non-s-wave even-parity and the s_(z)-wave pairings. Further
experiments which probe angle-resolved information, such as
magnetothermal experiments with rotating magnetic field, and
angle-resolved photoemission spectroscopy should be performed to
determine the superconducting gap structure of Lu₂Fe₃Si₅.

In summary, we studied the effect of nonmagnetic and magnetic impurities
on the superconductivity of Lu₂Fe₃Si₅ by small-amount substitution of
nonmagnetic Y, Sc, and magnetic Dy for Lu. The rapid T_(c) depression by
nonmagnetic impurities in accordance with the increase in residual
resistivity reveals the disorder-sensitive superconductivity in
Lu₂Fe₃Si₅, providing a strong evidence for the sign reversal of the
superconducting order parameter.

We thank T. Baba and Y. Nakajima for helpful comments. This work was
partly supported by a Grant-in-Aid for Scientific Research from the
Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology of Japan.

## References

* (1) Y. Kamihara, T. Watanabe, M. Hirano, and H. Hosono, J. Am. Chem.
Soc. **130**, 3296 (2008). * (2) H. F. Braun, Phys. Lett. A **75**, 386
(1980). * (3) H. F. Braun, in _Ternary Superconductors_, edited by G. K.
Shenoy, B. D. Dunlap, and F. Y. Fradin (North-Holland, Amsterdam, 1981),
p. 225. * (4) H. F. Braun, C. U. Segre, F. Acker, M. Rosenberg, S. Dey,
and P. Deppe, J. Magn. Magn. Mater. **25**, 117 (1981). * (5) D. C.
Johnston and H. F. Braun, in _Superconductivity Ternary Compounds II_,
edited by M. B. Maple and G. Fischer (Springer-Verlag, Berlin, 1982). *
(6) V. Nakajima, T. Nakagawa, T. Tamegai, and H. Harima, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **100**, 157001 (2008). * (7) R. T. Gordon, M. D. Vannette, C.
Martin, Y. Nakajima, T. Tamegai, and R. Prozorov, Phys. Rev. B **78**,
024514 (2008). * (8) H. J. Choi, D. Roundy, H. Sun, M. L. Cohen, and S.
G. Louie, Nature (London) **418**, 758 (2002). * (9) R. J. Noer, T. P.
Chen, and E. L. Wolf, Phys. Rev. B **31**, 647 (1985). * (10) C. B.
Vining, R. N. Shelton, H. F. Braun, and M. Pelizzone, Phys. Rev. B
**27**, 2800 (1983). * (11) Y. Xu and R. N. Shelton, Solid State Commun.
**68**, 395 (1988). * (12) H. F. Braun and C. U. Segre, Bull. Am. Phys.
Soc. **26**, 343 (1981). * (13) T. Baba, M. Matsunami, R. Eguchi, Y.
Ishida, A. Chainani, M. Okawa, K. Ishizaka, T. Kiss, T. Shimojima, H.
Sasame, T. Watanabe, Y. Takano, Y. Senba, H. Ohashi, T. Togashi, S.
Watanabe, X. Y. Wang, C. T. Chen, and S. Shin (unpublished). * (14) S.
Tsuda, T. Yokoya, T. Kiss, T. Shimojima, S. Shin, T. Togashi, S.
Watanabe, C. Zhang, C. T. Chen, S. Lee, H. Uchiyama, S. Tajima, N.
Nakai, and K. Machida, Phys. Rev. B **72**, 064527 (2005). * (15) Y.
Kasahara, T. Iwasawa, H. Shishido, T. Shibauchi, K. Behnia, Y. Haga, T.
D. Matsuda, Y. Onuki, M. Sigrist, and Y. Matsuda, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**99**, 116402 (2007). * (16) I. I. Mazin, D. J. Singh, M. D. Johannes,
and M. H. Du, Phys. Rev. Lett. **101**, 057003 (2008); K. Kuroki, S.
Onari, R. Arita, H. Usui, Y. Tanaka, H. Kontani, and H. Aoki,
_ibid._**101**, 087004 (2008). * (17) A. D. Christianson, E. A.
Goremychkin, R. Osborn, S. Rosenkranz, M. D. Lumsden, C. D. Malliakas,
I. S. Todorov, H. Claus, D. Y. Chung, M. G. Kanatzidis, R. I. Bewley,
and T. Guidi, Nature (London) **456**, 930 (2008); G. Mu, H. Luo, Z.
Wang, L. Shan, C. Ren, and H. H. Wen, Phys. Rev. B **79**, 174501
(2009); Y. Machida, K. Tomokuni, T. Isono, K. Izawa, Y. Nakajima, and T.
Tamegai, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **78**, 073705 (2009). * (18) A. V.
Balatsky, I. Vekhter, and J. X. Zhu, Rev. Mod. Phys. **78**, 373
(2006). * (19) A. A. Golubov and I. I. Mazin, Phys. Rev. B **55**, 15146
(1997). * (20) C. U. Segre and H. F. Braun, in _Physics of Solids Under
High Pressure_, edited by J. S. Schilling and R. N. Sheloton
(North-Holland, Amsterdam, 1981), p. 381. * (21) S. Xu, Y. Moritomo, K.
Kato, and A. Nakamura, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **70**, 1889 (2001). * (22)
For instance, the Hall coefficient R_(H) of a two-band system consisting
of electron and hole bands is written as
R_(H)=(n_(h)μ_(h)²−n_(e)μ_(e))²/[e(n_(h)μ_(h) + n_(e)μ_(h))²]. Here,
n_(h) (n_(e)) is the carrier density of the hole (electron) band and
μ_(h) (μ_(e)) is the mobility of the hole (electron) band.
