Images of interlayer vortices and _c_-axis penetration depth of
high-_T_c YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − y) superconductor

Ienari Iguchi

Nanomaterials Laboratory, National Institute for Materials Science,
Sengen 1-2-1, Tsukuba 305-0047, Japan

Tomohiro Takeda

Department of Physics, Tokyo Institute of Technology, 2-12-1 O-okayama,
Meguro-ku, Tokyo 152-8551, Japan

Tetsuji Uchiyama

Department of Physics, Tokyo Institute of Technology, 2-12-1 O-okayama,
Meguro-ku, Tokyo 152-8551, Japan

Akira Sugimoto

Faculty of Integrated Arts and Sciences, Hiroshima University,
1-7-1-Kagamiyama, Higashi-Hiroshima 739-8521, Japan

Takeshi Hatano

Nanomaterials Laboratory, National Institute for Materials Science,
Sengen 1-2-1, Tsukuba 305-0047, Japan

Received 27 April 2006; published 22 June 2006

###### Abstract

The measurements on the magnetic image of interlayer vortices are
performed for the high-_T_c YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − y)(110) thin film using a high
sensitive scanning SQUID microscopy. Clear images of aligned giant
interlayer vortices are observable. For the majority of vortices, using
the London model, the _c_-axis penetration depth is estimated to be
about 20 μm at 3 K. The temperature dependence of $\lambda_{\rm c}$ is
obtained from the observed vortex images at different temperatures,
whose behavior is in good agreement with those of the microwave cavity
measurement.

2006 10.1103/PhysRevB.73.224519 PACS number(s): 74.72.Bk, 74.25.Ha,
74.50.+r, 85.25.Dq + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL REVIEW B **73**,
224519 (2006)

It is well known that high-_T_c superconductors has a structure with the
stacked two-dimensional superconducting planes and behave like two
dimensional superconductors because of their large anisotropy. The large
anisotropy yields the large difference between the London magnetic
penetration depth in the _ab_-plane (λ_(ab)) and along the c axis
($\lambda_{\rm c}$). The magnitude of λ_(ab) generally ranges from 0.1
μm to 0.5 μm, whereas the $\lambda_{\rm c}$ value for the interlayer
vortices is very large for highly anisotropic superconductors. The
latter is particularly important since it is directly related to the
size of interlayer vortices in the _ab_-plane which attracted
considerable attention for the basic study of vortex flow, [1, 2, 3, 4,
5, 6] the superconductivity mechanism by the Anderson’s interlayer
tunneling model, [7, 8] and the possible THz application of Josephson
plasma phenomena [9, 10, 11, 12, 13] recently.

The $\lambda_{\rm c}$ value is indirectly determined from the measured
Josephson plasma frequency $\omega_{\rm p}$ by the relation
$\omega_{\rm p}$=$c/\sqrt{\varepsilon}\lambda_{\rm c}$ where c is the
speed of light and e is the dielectric constant of the interlayer
medium. $\omega_{\rm p}$ is determined by microwave cavity measurements
or infrared spectroscopy. [14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20] The dielectric
constant e has, however, some ambiguity. Besides, the measurements
provide only the value of $\lambda_{\rm c}$ and does not provide any
information on the structure of an interface vortex. $\lambda_{\rm c}$
largely depends on individual materials and the doping levels. Hence the
direct measurement of $\lambda_{\rm c}$ is necessary.

Recent scanning SQUID spectroscopy (SSM) technique provides the direct
measurement of the interlayer quantized vortices which allows the direct
estimation of $\lambda_{\rm c}$. Although the measurements on the
pancake vortices, the Josephson vortices at the grain boundaries and the
half integer vortex at the tricrystal boundary in the _c_-axis oriented
films or crystals are abundant, [21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27] there exist
only a few reports on the measurement of $\lambda_{\rm c}$ which is also
limited to specific thallium and mercury cuprates [$\lambda_{\rm c}$=8
μm for Hg-1201 (Ref. [28]) and $\lambda_{\rm c}$ =17−19 μm for Tl-2201
(Ref. [29]). Besides, the measurements were performed only at 4.2 K.
There is no report on the commonly used yttrium and bismuth cuprates,
probably due to the fact that the preparation of a smooth _a-b_ or _a-c_
plane surface for single crystal samples and, also the growth of high
quality non-_c_-axis oriented films are not easy. Note that the
preparation of the _c_-plane oriented smooth surface for single crystals
or the growth of the _c_-axis oriented films is much easier. From the
viewpoint of basic study of vortices in anisotropic cuprates and device
application, it is also very important to investigate the structure of
interlayer vortices directly at higher temperature.

Here we demonstrate the first measurement on the magnetic images of
interlayer vortices in the YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − y)(YBCO)(110) thin film using
the SSM. By this measurement, we determined the _c_-axis penetration
depth for the YBCO material. The clear image of interlayer vortices was
observable without significant broadening of the vortex shape up to
about 50 K. The temperature dependence of $\lambda_{\rm c}$ appeared not
to be linear as expected for a _d_-wave pairing state, suggesting the
involvement of incoherent process as suggested by Hosseini _et al._[17,
18]

The SSM made use of Nb SQUID and had a spatial resolution limited by the
input coil diameter of 10 μmϕ. Both the SQUID and the pick-up coil were
mounted on a Si chip set on a cantilever which was oriented an angle
θ∼5^(∘) from parallel to the sample; and scanned with the tip not
touching the sample. The SQUID resolution was 5 × 10⁻⁶Φ₀ Hz^(−1/2), and
the scanning of sample stage was done by three stepping motors along the
x, y, and z axes. The detector picked up the magnetic flux through the
pickup coil normal to the sample surface, i.e., the z direction. The
sample-pickup coil distance was about 3 μm as calculated from fits to
data on Abrikosov vortices. The magnetic image of pancake vortices along
the c axis is limited by the size of the pickup coil which is much
greater than λ_(ab). On the other hand, the spreading of interlayer
vortices in the _ab_-plane gives the estimate for $\lambda_{\rm c}$. The
sample temperature was variable between 3 K and 90 K. The use of a
permalloy magnetic shield reduced the background magnetic field to be
about 0.2 μT. A small magnetic field could be generated by the coil
wound around the sample, if necessary.

The sample was fabricated by depositing YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − x)(110) thin films
on the SrTiO₃(STO)(110) single crystal substrates using a pulsed laser
deposition technique. The lattice constant of STO is 0.391 nm. The
_c_-axis length of YBCO is 1.17 nm, which corresponds to just three
times of STO(110) lattice constant. The growth of YBCO(110) thin films
was done in the following way. Using a KrF excimer laser with wavelength
of 248 nm, energy of 250−300 mJ and the repetition rate of 2 Hz, a YBCO
film was deposited at 690 ^(∘)C for 10 min under 0.4 Torr oxygen
pressure. Subsequently the substrate temperature was increased up to 800
^(∘)C and an additional YBCO film was deposited again for 30 min. In
this process, first an _ab_-plane oriented YBCO film was grown at lower
deposition temperature, thereafter the transition temperature
$T_{\rm c}$ of the film was improved by increasing the deposition
temperature higher. This method is the so-called "template method." The
thin-film sample thus fabricated was mounted on the sample holder using
epoxy. The c axis lies in the film and the (110) face was aligned
vertically. $T_{\rm c}$ of the film was 83 K.

Figure 1(a) shows the x-ray diffraction pattern of the YBCO film. The
YBCO(110) and (220) peaks are markedly pronounced, indicating the strong
orientation along the (110) direction. To exclude the possibility of
(103) peaks, the polar x-ray figure [Fig. 1(b)] was also recorded, which
yielded four peaks confirming the (110) orientation.

Figures 2(a) and 2(b) show two examples of the observed three
dimensional SSM magnetic images of interlayer vortices in the YBCO(110)
film at 3 K in the scanning area of 300 × 300μm² and 250 × 250μm²,
respectively. Figure 2(a) corresponds to the data under the least
background magnetic field, whereas Fig. 2(b) corresponds to those under
a slightly higher magnetic field for which the flux distribution is
denser. The presence of the aligned long vortices along the _y_-axis
direction is evident. The x axis corresponds to the _c_-axis direction
of the YBCO(110) film. Some of the observed vortices are clearly
overlapped with each other, particularly for Fig. 2(b), due to the close
presence in space. The nearly uniform appearance of interlayer vortices
in the large area indicates that the fabricated YBCO(110) film was of
high quality, although some locally disordered vortices are seen
probably due to the stacking faults in the scale of several tens of
microns. For comparison, the magnetic image of the pinned pancake
vortices observed in the _c_-axis oriented YBCO(001) film in the
scanning area of 320×200 μm² is

Figure 2: (Color online) (a), (b) Examples of three-dimensional SSM
magnetic image of the YBCO(110) film at 3 K, (c) example of SSM magnetic
image of the _c_-axis oriented YBCO(001) film at 3 K. While long aligned
interlayer vortices are observable in (a) and (b), only round pancake
vortices are visible in (c).

Figure 1: (a) X-ray diffraction pattern for the (110) YBCO film, (b)
x-ray pole figure of the (110) YBCO film.

shown in Fig. 2(c). In contrast to the round vortices in the _c_-axis
oriented film, the aligned interlayer vortices are quite long. It is
found by integrating the observed individual flux signal that one
interlayer vortex approximately carries one quantum flux unit Φ₀=h/2e.

Figure 3 shows a representative single interlayer vortex at different
temperatures. They appeared to be slightly asymmetric in space due to
the overlapping effect of background magnetic field from the neighboring
vortices. The single vortex image was clearly visible up to about 50 K,
showing that the isolated interlayer long vortices are stably present.
Above 50 K, the vortex structure was much more smeared and almost
disappeared probably due to the fact that the vortex is more weakly
pinned as the temperature is increased.

The magnetic-field penetration depth λ_(c) was estimated by using the
following London model for the anisotropic superconductor [30, 31]

$$B_{z}(x,y,z=0,\lambda_{c},\lambda_{ab})=\frac{\Phi_{0}}{2\pi\lambda_{ab} \lambda_{c}}K_{0}(R),$$

$$R=\left(\frac{x}{\lambda_{c}}\right)^{2}+\left(\frac{y}{\lambda_{ab}}\right)^{ 2},$$
(1)

where K₀(x) is the modified Bessel function of the zeroth order. The
field is summed over the area of the pickup coil. In the data fitting
process, two parameters were assumed. One is the sample-pickup coil
distance z which determines the magnitude of magnetic field of the
vortex image. From the data of the independent measurement on the
isolated pancake vortex, we assumed z=3 μm and λ_(ab)=0.1 μm. Note that
the value of λ_(ab) does not affect λ_(c) seriously since λ_(c)≫λ_(ab).

To estimate λ_(c), the data fitting process was done using Eq. (1) and
the peak data nearly free from the background magnetic field. For the
majority of vortices, the result yielded λ_(c)=19.5±1.5 μm at 3 K. For a
few vortices inside the scanning area, however, a smaller penetration
depth of λ_(c) =11±1 μm was also observable. The observed values are
much greater than that of Hg-1201, [28] much smaller than the expected
ones of Bi2212 or Bi2223, but comparable to that of Tl-2201 (Ref. [29])
by the scanning SQUID microscopy. They are a factor of 5 or about one
order of magnitude greater than those reported for near optimally-doped
YBCO superconductors with T_(c) of about 80 K (λ_(c)∼ 1.5 μm) obtained
by far-infrared measurements or microwave cavity measurements, [14, 17]
although a large value of 29 μm is reported for an underdoped YBCO with
T_(c)=20 K. [18] As for the origin of large discrepancy, we checked the
data analysis very carefully, but no error was found, precluding such
possibility. Because of the large λ_(c) value much greater than the
diameter of SQUID input coil, the observed value is quite reliable, in
contrast to those of λ_(c) or λ_(ab) values much smaller than the SQUID
spatial resolution. Kirtley _et al._[31] calculated the spreading effect
of vortices at the superconducting surface, but this effect did not give
a large change corresponding to the observed penetration depth. We point
out that, although the previous electromagnetic measurements apparently
provide a common value for λ_(c), we still cannot pre

Figure 3: (Color online) Three-dimensional SSM magnetic image of an
isolated interlayer vortex at different temperatures.

clude the possibility that the measured $\uplambda_{\rm c}$ did not
reflect the correct value since they only give some spatially averaged
value of $\uplambda_{\rm c}$ on the surface of a YBCO single crystal
which is definitely affected by the oxygen deficiency effect, crystal
defects [stacking faults, i.e., possible contributions from λ_(ab)
(≈0.15 μm)] or impurities.

To demonstrate the validity of our measurement technique further, we
have performed an additional measurement on a c-axis oriented YBCO thin
film deposited on a tricrystal crystal substrate. This tricrystal
geometry was the same as that of previous measurements used for the
proof of d-wave superconductivity for oxide cuprates.[21, 23, 26] Figure
4 shows an example of the observed magnetic images (top view) under
different external magnetic fields at 3 K. When the field is small, a
clear half flux quantum vortex typical of a d-wave superconductor at the
tricrystal point and a Josephson vortex are recognizable in Figs.
4(a)-4(c). The observed half flux quantum appeared as a smaller magnetic
image. The size of the observed magnetic images nearly agrees with that
calculated from simulation obtained by assuming the input-coil diameter
of 10 μmϕ. Under the field of 20 μT [Fig. 4(d)], the external field
penetrated into the grain boundaries, which produced long magnetic
images corresponding to the same scale length of the interlayer
vortices. Figure 4(e) shows the magnetic image when the external field
was turned off, for which the trapped vortices (overlapped) in the grain
boundaries are evident. Figure 4(f) shows a magnetic image when the
field was applied to opposite direction. The above result justifies our
measurement technique for observation of large interlayer vortices. The
similar magnetic images have been also obtained in the bicrystal grain
boundaries in the d-wave YBCO superconductors.[27]

Based on the above discussions and the result of Fig. 4, apart from the
validity of the previously obtained data,[14, 17] we conjecture that the
discrepancy may arise from the samples used. In contrast to
single-crystal samples used for all the other $\uplambda_{\rm c}$
measurements, our measurement used epitaxially grown YBCO(110) thin
films. Thin films generally have the grain structure. In fact, the
observed supercurrent density in the ab-plane (∼10⁴ A/cm²) was about two
orders of magnitude smaller than that of optimally-doped single
crystals, although the $T_{\rm c}$ was 83 K. The observed broad
superconducting transition ($\Delta T_{\rm c}$ = 10 K) reflects such
situation. The interlayer vortices are penetrated into weak
superconducting regions selectively in order to minimize the energy loss
by flux penetration, hence more easily pinned at the grain boundaries
or, crystal defects, or twin boundaries, or impurities within the grain.
In the weak superconducting region, the order parameter is significantly
reduced, which works as a Josephson junction or a weak junction. This
also yields a longer penetration depth for $\uplambda_{\rm c}$. The two
orders of magnitude different in the critical current density gives the
right order of magnitude for the observed $\uplambda_{\rm c}$ since
$\uplambda_{\rm c}$ becomes inversely proportional to the square root of
the current density. By assuming that the $\uplambda_{\rm c}$ values
obtained in the previous measurements are correct, we come to a
conclusion that the vortices with $\uplambda_{\rm c}$ ∼ 20 μm possibly
corresponds to those pinned at grain boundaries, while those with
$\uplambda_{\rm c}$∼ 11 μm may be the interlayer vortices pinned at
crystal defects, twin boundaries, or impurities within the grain. We
consider that the qualitative feature of these vortices is similar to
those unpinned as far as the interlayer vortices are concerned. The
$\uplambda_{\rm c}$ in the weak coupling region is a very important
physical property since it is closely related to the Josephson
penetration depth, hence is considered to be a fundamental property of a
high-$T_{\rm c}$ oxide superconductor which may be comparable to bulk
$\uplambda_{\rm c}$ under various doping levels.

Figure 4: (Color online) Magnetic images (top view) for a c-axis
oriented YBCO thin film deposited on a tricrystal substrate under
different external magnetic field. Note that large and small vortices
seen in (a)–(c) are a Josephson quantum vortex and a half flux quantum
vortex at the tricrystal point typical for a d-wave superconductor,
respectively. The intrusion of external magnetic field along the grain
boundaries (d)–(f) produced long strip images different from a single
vortex.

Figure 5: (a) Temperature dependence of the c-axis penetration depth.
(b) $1/\uplambda_{\rm c}^{2}(T)$ value normalized by the value
$\uplambda_{\rm c}^{2}(T_{0})$ at the lowest measured temperature T₀ as
a function of temperature. Note that the quantity
$\uplambda_{\rm c}^{2}(0)/\uplambda_{\rm c}^{2}(T)$ is directly
proportional to the superfluid density.

Figure 5(a) shows the temperature dependence of the c-axis penetration
depth $\lambda_{\rm c}$ of about 20 μm calculated from the observed
magnetic images at different temperatures by a data fitting process
using Eq. (1). The result shows that $\lambda_{\rm c}$ increased by an
amount of 20

Since the anisotropy of YBCO material is smaller than that of Bi2212 and
is closer to three dimensional structure, the Josephson plasma frequency
f_(p) is expected to be much higher than that of Bi2212 (about 100 GHz).
From the observed c-axis penetration depth, the Josephson plasma
frequency f_(p) = $c/2\,\pi\,\sqrt{\varepsilon}\,\lambda_{\rm c}$ is
estimated to be about 0.8 THz by assuming ε = 10, which is promising to
Terahertz frequency application.

In summary, we have shown the direct observation of interlayer vortices
in YBCO material by a scanning SQUID microscope technique. The observed
c-axis penetration depth appeared as about one order of magnitude longer
than those of the other measurements, although the temperature dependent
behavior was qualitatively similar. This discrepancy is reconciled by
considering the pinning of interlayer vortices at the grain boundaries
or crystal defects or impurities preferably.

The authors are thankful to M. Tachiki, T. Hatano, X. Hu, A. Sugimoto,
and H. Shibata for helpful discussions.

## References

* [1] T. Koyama and M. Tachiki, Solid State Commun. **96**, 367
(1995). * [2] B. I. Ivlev, N. B. Kopnin, and V. L. Pokrovsky, J. Low
Temp. Phys. **80**, 187 (1990). * [3] J. U. Lee, J. E. Nordman, and G.
Hohenwarter, Appl. Phys. Lett. **67**, 1471 (1995). * [4] S. Ooi, T.
Mochiku, and K. Hirata, Phys. Rev. Lett. **89**, 247002 (2002). * [5] A.
E. Koshelev, Phys. Rev. B **66**, 224514 (2002). * [6] M. Ichioka, Phys.
Rev. B **51**, 9423 (1995). * [7] P. W. Anderson, Science **268**, 1154
(1995). * [8] P. W. Anderson, Science **279**, 1196 (1998). * [9] M.
Tachiki, T. Koyama, and S. Takahashi, Phys. Rev. B **50**, 7065
(1994). * [10] S. E. Shafranjuk and M. Tachiki, Phys. Rev. B **59**,
14087 (1999). * [11] K. Lee, W. Wang, I. Iguchi, M. Tachiki, K. Hirata,
and T. Mochiku, Phys. Rev. B **61**, 3616 (2000). * [12] E. Kume, I.
Iguchi, and H. Takahashi, Appl. Phys. Lett. **75**, 2809 (1999). * [13]
M. Tachiki, M. Iizuka, K. Minami, S. Tejima, and H. Nakamura, Phys. Rev.
B **71**, 134515 (2005). * [14] C. C. Homes, T. Timusk, D. A. Bonn, R.
Liang, and W. N. Hardy, Physica C **254**, 265 (1995). * [15] H. Shibata
and T. Yamada, Phys. Rev. B **54**, 7500 (1996). * [16] S. Tajima, J.
Schutzmann, S. Miyamoto, I. Terasaki, Y. Sato, and R. Hauff, Phys. Rev.
B **55**, 6051 (1997). * [17] A. Hosseini, S. Kamal, D. A. Bonn, Ruixing
Liang, and W. N. Hardy, Phys. Rev. Lett. **81**, 1298 (1998). * [18] A.
Hosseini, D. M. Broun, D. E. Sheehy, T. P. Davis, M. Franz, c-axis
transport is dominated by the incoherent processes as suggested by Ref.
[17]. * [19] Sinc the anisotropy of YBCO material is smaller than that
of Bi2212 and is closer to three dimensional structure, the Josephson
plasma frequency f_(p) is expected to be much higher than that of Bi2212
(about 100 GHz). From the observed c-axis penetration depth, the
Josephson plasma frequency f_(p) =
$c/2\,\pi\,\sqrt{\varepsilon}\,\lambda_{\rm c}$ is estimated to be about
0.8 THz by assuming ε = 10, which is promising to Terahertz frequency
application.

In summary, we have shown the direct observation of interlayer vortices
in YBCO material by a scanning SQUID microscope technique. The observed
c-axis penetration depth appeared as about one order of magnitude longer
than those of the other measurements, although the temperature dependent
behavior was qualitatively similar. This discrepancy is reconciled by
considering the pinning of interlayer vortices at the grain boundaries
or crystal defects or impurities preferably.

The authors are thankful to M. Tachiki, T. Hatano, X. Hu, A. Sugimoto,
and H. Shibata for helpful discussions.

## References

* [1] T. Koyama and M. Tachiki, Solid State Commun. **96**, 367
(1995). * [2] B. I. Ivlev, N. B. Kopnin, and V. L. Pokrovsky, J. Low
Temp. Phys. **80**, 187 (1990). * [3] J. U. Lee, J. E. Nordman, and G.
Hohenwarter, Appl. Phys. Lett. **67**, 1471 (1995). * [4] S. Ooi, T.
Mochiku, and K. Hirata, Phys. Rev. Lett. **89**, 247002 (2002). * [5] A.
E. Koshelev, Phys. Rev. B **66**, 224514 (2002). * [6] M. Ichioka, Phys.
Rev. B **51**, 9423 (1995). * [7] P. W. Anderson, Science **268**, 1154
(1995). * [8] P. W. Anderson, Science **279**, 1196 (1998). * [9] M.
Tachiki, T. Koyama, and S. Takahashi, Phys. Rev. B **50**, 7065
(1994). * [10] S. E. Shafranjuk and M. Tachiki, Phys. Rev. B **59**,
14087 (1999). * [11] K. Lee, W. Wang, I. Iguchi, M. Tachiki, K. Hirata,
and T. Mochiku, Phys. Rev. B **61**, 3616 (2000). * [12] E. Kume, I.
Iguchi, and H. Takahashi, Appl. Phys. Lett. **75**, 2809 (1999). * [13]
M. Tachiki, M. Iizuka, K. Minami, S. Tejima, and H. Nakamura, Phys. Rev.
B **71**, 134515 (2005). * [14] C. C. Homes, T. Timusk, D. A. Bonn, R.
Liang, and W. N. Hardy, Physica C **254**, 265 (1995). * [15] H. Shibata
and T. Yamada, Phys. Rev. B **54**, 7500 (1996). * [16] S. Tajima, J.
Schutzmann, S. Miyamoto, I. Terasaki, Y. Sato, and R. Hauff, Phys. Rev.
B **55**, 6051 (1997). * [17] A. Hosseini, S. Kamal, D. A. Bonn, Ruixing
Liang, and W. N. Hardy, Phys. Rev. Lett. **81**, 1298 (1998). * [18] A.
Hosseini, D. M. Broun, D. E. Sheehy, T. P. Davis, M. Franz, c-axis
transport is dominated by the incoherent processes as suggested by Ref.
[17]. * [19] S. Tajima, J. Schutzmann, S. Miyamoto, I. Terasaki, Y.
Sato, and R. Hauff, Phys. Rev. B **55**, 6051 (1997). * [20] A.
Hosseini, S. Kamal, D. A. Bonn, Ruixing Liang, and W. N. Hardy, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **81**, 1298 (1998). * [21] A. Hosseini, D. M. Broun, D. E.
Sheehy, T. P. Davis, M. Franz, c-axis transport is dominated by the
incoherent processes as suggested by Ref. [17]. * [22] S. Tajima, J.
Schutzmann, S. Miyamoto, I. Terasaki, Y. Sato, and R. Hauff, Phys. Rev.
B **55**, 6051 (1997). * [23] A. Hosseini, S. Kamal, D. A. Bonn, Ruixing
Liang, and W. N. Hardy, Phys. Rev. Lett. **81**, 1298 (1998). * [24] A.
Hosseini, D. M. Broun, D. E. Sheehy, T. P. Davis, M. Franz, c-axis
transport is dominated by the incoherent processes as suggested by Ref.
[17]. * [25] S. Tajima, J. Schutzmann, S. Miyamoto, I. Terasaki, Y.
Sato, and R. Hauff, Phys. Rev. B **55**, 6051 (1997). * [26] A.
Hosseini, S. Kamal, D. A. Bonn, Ruixing Liang, and W. N. Hardy, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **81**, 1298 (1998). * [27] A. Hosseini, D. M. Broun, D. E.
Sheehy, T. P. Davis, M. Franz, c-axis transport is dominated by the
incoherent processes as suggested by Ref. [17]. * [28] S. Tajima, J.
Schutzmann, S. Miyamoto, I. Terasaki, Y. Sato, and R. Hauff, Phys. Rev.
B **55**, 6051 (1997). * [29] A. Hosseini, S. Kamal, D. A. Bonn, Ruixing
Liang, and W. N. Hardy, Phys. Rev. Lett. **81**,
