# Low-temperature specific heat and critical magnetic field of
_a_-uranium single crystals

J. C. Lashley

Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, Brigham Young University,
Provo, Utah 84602

and Materials Science and Technology Division, Los Alamos National
Laboratory, Los Alamos, New Mexico 87545

B. E. Lang

Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, Brigham Young University,
Provo, Utah 84602

G. M. Schmiedeshoff

Department of Physics, Occidental College, 1600 Campus Rd., Los Angeles,
California 90041-3314

E. C. Gay

CMT Division, Argonne National Laboratory, Argonne, Illinois 60439

D. J. Thoma

W. L. Hults

J. C. Cooley

R. J. Hanrahan

Jr.

J. L. Smith

Materials Science and Technology Division, Los Alamos National
Laboratory, Los Alamos, New Mexico 87545

28 November 200023 May 2001

###### Abstract

The current work reports on the specific heat and the electrical
resistivity of _a_-uranium at cryogenic temperatures. Measurements were
made on _a_-uranium single crystals that have some unexpected mechanical
properties. Despite the fact that _a_-uranium normally work hardens and
often fails in a brittle manner, these crystals bend easily. Presumably,
the combination of flexibility and strength comes from twinning in
response to stress, and these twins can run freely during deformation.
Because grain boundaries are not present, we anticipated that the
characteristics of the charge density wave (CDW) might be more prominent
in these crystals. For these reasons, the specific heat was measured
from T 0.5 to 110 K, using semiadiabatic calorimetry in zero field, and
the electrical resistivity was measured from T 0.1 to 0.50 K, in
magnetic fields up to 80 mT using a standard four-probe _ac_ technique.
An abrupt resistance drop typical of a superconducting transition was
observed as the temperature fell below 0.78 K, a temperature at which
the resistance fell to 90

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.63.224510 PACS number(s): 74.70.Ad, 75.40.-s,
05.70.Fh, 05.70.Jk

## I Introduction

Although uranium is a fundamental element to nuclear physics, it
exhibits extraordinary solid-state properties.1 Knowledge of the
solid-state properties has benefited from fifty years of metallurgical
research aimed at nuclear fuel production. The solid-state properties
include a series of three low-temperature charge density wave (CDW)
structural phase changes in the normal state and a superconducting
transition below 2 K that shows a large positive isotope effect when the
CDW is suppressed by 11 kbar of pressure.2,3 The superconducting
transition in uranium is unique because it was the first example of a
metal that becomes a superconductor under pressure without a
crystallographic transition.4 Additionally, superconductivity in uranium
raised the important problem of bulk versus filamentary
superconductivity for the first time.1 In the normal state, the first
CDW transition occurs at 43 K (_a_1), the second at 38 K (_a_2), and the
last at 22 K (_a_3), where the subscripts 1, 2, and 3 refer to the
zero-pressure equilibrium phases. The a1 transition is known to be the
onset of the CDW state and is associated with a lattice distortion.
Below 23 K, all three components of the CDW structure are commensurate
with the underlying lattice, while the CDW structure becomes
incommensurate with the underlying lattice between 23 and 43 K.15 There
is also a significant increase in the unit cell volume at the a3
transition.1

For the reasons mentioned above, uranium has been the subject of many
calorimetric investigations of both polycrystalline and single-crystal
samples.6-13 The resulting electronic specific heat (_g_) and
low-temperature limiting Ph_D_ parameters obtained from these studies
are reported in Table I. After fifty years of multidisciplinary
research, one might think that we could simply catalog the engineering
properties of uranium and use this to know, for example, how to predict
_T__(c). However, years of research have shown that _T__(c) depends too
sensitively on things such as impurities, temperature, and method of
fabrication to be predictable. Accordingly, many ambiguities associated
with the experimental situation and differing values summarized in Table
1 have been attributed to the purity of samples and the quality of
single crystals. For example, calorimetric measurements made at 10 kbar
are consistent with magnetic measurements and have confirmed the
presence of bulk superconductivity with a T_(c) of 2 K,[14] and
calorimetric measurements at zero pressure give widely different values
for T_(c) ranging from 0.1 to 0.5 K, taking the midpoint of the rise in
the C/T data. One model to explain this variation has been that certain
impurities and/or filaments of strained material can help stabilize a
bulk superconductor by suppression of the CDW.[15] In particular, it has
been reported that a T_(c) between 0.25 and 0.80 K is due to strain
filaments within the metal.[16] The values of the electronic specific
heat and the Debye temperatures in the low-temperature limit appear to
be influenced by the substructure within a crystal. The differences in
the Debye temperatures have been ascribed to variations in the CDW
suppression.[1] As noted in Table 1, the values prior to the current
study determined from C/T vs T² plots between 0 and 4 K, vary from 183
to 218 K. One can see that these values tend to be lower for
polycrystalline samples.

The only Θ_(D) values for single crystal α-U that had previously been
reported is that for a pseudo-single-crystal made by slow cooling from
β-U to α-U by mechanically moving a sample through a temperature
gradient. The calorimetric values were obtained and reported by Crangle
and Temporal,[12] but the samples were made from experiments at Argonne.
The microstructures and diffraction patterns showed considerable
splitting of the alpha grains to produce mosaic boundaries between small
grains that vary in orientation by as much as 15^(∘). In contrast, the
single crystals produced by a grain coarsening method are free of mosaic
boundaries and have been used only to detect the T_(c) with calorimetric
data between 0.1 and 1 K.[1] There is, therefore, no reported Θ_(D) for
single crystals produced by grain coarsening, since the data reported in
the review article by Lander _et al.[1]_ represented C/T versus T data,
with the T⁻³ and T⁻² contributions removed. The calorimetric Θ_(D) of
grain coarsened single-crystal α-U is still to be measured.

Recently, we prepared single crystals of α-uranium metal using
electrochemical techniques. Although orthorhombic α-uranium normally
work hardens rapidly and often fails in a brittle manner, these crystals
bend easily and do not work harden. They were grown by electrotransport
through a molten salt bath formed as dendrites.[17] These samples differ
from samples used in previous investigations in that they are relatively
strain free and show facets. It was anticipated that the characteristics
of the low-temperature properties of uranium might be more prominent in
these crystals because defects that typically pin the CDW state are not
present. Although α-uranium has been the subject of numerous resistivity
and calorimetric investigations, we were motivated to revisit the
low-temperature physics of uranium with

  -------------------------------------------- ----------- ----------- -------- -----------------
              Investigators (Ref.)                  γ                           
                 (mJ K⁻² mol⁻¹)                 Θ_(D) (K)   T_(c) (K)   Sample  
      Goodman and Schoenberg 1950 (Ref. 6)        10.6         206               Polycrystalline
        Smith and Wolcott 1955 (Ref. 7)           10.9         200               Polycrystalline
    Dempesy, Gordon, and Romer 1963 (Ref. 8)      12.1                           Polycrystalline
         Gordon _et al._ 1966 (Ref. 9)            10.12        183               Polycrystalline
                                                  10.03        207              
       Flotow and Osborne 1966 (Ref. 10)          9.88         218               Polycrystalline
           Ho _et al._ 1966 (Ref. 4)              10.3a                  <0.1    Pseudocrystalc
                                                  12.2b                  2.0     Polycrystalline
        Fisher and Dever 1968d (Ref. 11)                       250               Single crystal
      Crangle and Temporal 1973 (Ref. 12)         10.00        195               Polycrystalline
                                                  9.46         203                Large-grained
                                                  9.14         210                Pseudocrystal
   Bader, Phillips, and Fisher 1975 (Ref. 13)     9.59                   0.27    Polycrystalline
                                                  9.86                   0.20    Polycrystalline
                                                  9.82                   0.27     Large-grained
                                                   9.9                   0.27     Large-grained
                                                  9.14                   <0.1    Single crystal
                 Current study                    9.13         256               Single crystal
  -------------------------------------------- ----------- ----------- -------- -----------------

Table 1: Values of the electronic specific heat γ, Debye temperatures
Θ_(D), and T_(c) values reported by different investigators.

these high-quality single crystals. The electrical resistance
measurements reported here were undertaken to clarify the nature of
superconductivity in single crystal α-uranium at zero pressure and to
measure the critical magnetic field. The specific-heat measurements were
undertaken to search for superconductivity at zero pressure and to
obtain the thermodynamic properties of the CDW state. In addition, we
investigate the 16

## II Experiment

### Samples

The uranium crystals were grown by electrotransport through a molten
salt bath of LiCl-KCl eutectic containing on the order of 3 wt.

### Electrical resistivity

The electrical resistivity was measured using a standard four-probe ac
technique. The magnetic field and current were parallel and
perpendicular to the c axis, respectively. A Linear Research LR-700
resistance bridge, which implemented a standard four-terminal ac
measurement at 16 Hz, was used in this measurement. The small resistance
of the crystal (about 12 μΩ) below 2 K required a large excitation
current of 1.5 mA. The electrical resistance above 2 K was measured
using a standard four-terminal ac technique with an excitation current
of 3 mA. The resistivity was calculated from the dimension of the sample
with an estimated absolute uncertainty of 15

### Specific heat

The specific heat was measured in zero-magnetic field using an apparatus
designed around a ³He insert capable of attaining temperatures as low as
0.4 K. Two single crystals of uranium, weighing a total of 0.5 g, were
stacked and thermally attached to the sample platform with a thin layer
of Apiezon N grease. The specific heat of the empty sample platform was
measured separately, and the specific heat of the empty sample platform
and the Apiezon N grease was subtracted from the total specific heat to
obtain the specific heat of the sample. A semiadiabatic pulse technique
was used to measure the specific heat from the lowest temperature up to
10 K, and this technique was also used to map the α₃ transition.
Semiadiabatic conditions are obtained by adding enough heat to obtain a
flat drift at each temperature. An isothermal technique was used to
measure the specific heat from 10 to 110 K. In the isothermal technique,
a constant temperature block is heated to a series of predetermined
temperatures and the sample is allowed to drift toward the block
temperature before and after a heating pulse. The details of the
semiadiabatic pulse and isothermal techniques and thermometry are
described elsewhere.[19, 20]

## III Results and discussion

### Electrical resistivity

We observed an abrupt drop in the resistance of the crystal as the
temperature fell below about 0.78 K, the temperature at which the
resistance appears to reach its minimum value. The quantities are
graphically defined in Fig. 1. The critical temperature, T_(c) , is
taken to be the temperature at

Figure 2: Electrical resistivity data showing an abrupt resistance drop
in the “foot” value at approximately 0.6 K. The magnetic field was
parallel to the [001] direction in this experiment.

Figure 1: Graphical definition of terms used in describing the
resistivity data. We base the T_(c) on the foot value.

which the resistance falls to 90

H_(c)(T) = H_(c)(0)[ 1 − (T/T_(c))² ]

with H_(c)(0) = 74 ± 4 mT and T_(c) = 0.78 ± 0.05 K, shown as the solid
line in Fig. 3, and characterizes the data reasonably well.

The temperature dependence of the resistivity between 2 and 50 K is
shown in Fig. 4. Diagonal arrows denote the direction in which the
temperature was changing during data acquisition. Vertical arrows denote
the position of features we associate with the CDW transitions at
α₁ = 42 K, α₂ = 37 K, and α₃ = 23 K in good agreement with the values in
the literature.[1] The inset shows the resistivity up to room
temperature divided by its value near 2 K. Though similar in shape to
earlier measurements reported in the literature,[1] our resistivity data
is qualitatively different in that the features associated with all
three CDW transitions are clearly visible: a break in slope at α₁ , a
steplike feature at α₂ (at which a small thermal hysteresis appears),
and an abrupt onset of significant thermal hysteresis at α₃. The
residual resistivity ratio (RRR) is about 115 which is three times
higher than any RRR reported previously.[1] The magnetoresistance (with
H parallel to the crystalline c axis) is very large and featureless,
reaching approximately 750

### Specific heat

The specific heat of uranium, with four low-temperature anomalies, is
shown in Fig. 5. As uranium cools to approximately 41 K, the α₁ appears
as a round hump in the specific heat data. In contrast, the α₂
transition at approximately 38 K appears as a sharp peak. Further
cooling of uranium to approximately 23 K results in yet another broad
transition, the α₃ transition. Below 2 K there is a gradual upturn,
typical of a ²³⁵U hyperfine interaction, shown in the Fig. 5 inset. In
order to calculate the excess specific heat from 10 to 110 K, the
lattice specific heat was estimated by fitting the data using a hand
spline.

Figure 4: The temperature dependence of the resistivity between T^(o)= 2
and 50 K. Diagonal arrows denote the direction in which the temperature
was changing during data acquisition. Vertical arrows denote the
position of the CDW features. Inset: The resistivity up to room
temperature divided by its value near 2 K.

Figure 5: The specific heat as a function of temperature is shown.
Inset: The details of the specific heat below 4 K.

### 1. The α₁ and α₂ transitions

Shown in Fig. 6 are the α₁ and α₂ transitions where a lattice estimation
has been subtracted in order to more clearly show the excess specific
heat of the transitions. The fit of each transition is extrapolated to
the baseline to permit integration of each individual transition. In
particular, α₂, which is clearly a symmetrical transition, was
extrapolated to the high-temperature side and was then subtracted from
the full transition (the lattice having already been subtracted) to
obtain an estimate of the α₁ transition. We tested the self-consistency
of our extrapolations by adding the two individual transitions, which
resulted in the fit through the full transition as shown in Fig. 6.
Integration of the C/T data gives an entropy of transition that is the
same, within experimental error, for each phase change ΔS_(α1) = 0.12 J
K⁻¹ mol⁻¹ and ΔS_(α2)= 0.11 J K⁻¹ mol⁻¹.

These transitions have been characterized as a structural and electronic
transition at 41 K(α₁) accompanied by an electronic transition at 36
K(α₂).[1] The rounded symmetric shape of the α₁ transition is indicative
of a sluggish first-order lattice transition, consistent with a change
in the lattice parameter determined from prior neutron scattering
experiments.[1] In contrast the α₂ transition at 38 K appears as a sharp
peak which suggests there is very little lattice contribution at the α₂
transition. Several runs were made through this transition with
decreasing ΔT intervals and are denoted by different data symbols in
Fig. 6. Based on the sharp symmetric character of the α₂ transition and
also on the presence of a transition in resistivity data at same
temperature, we believe this transition is indicative of a first-order
phase change. This observation is supported by recent first principles
total energy calculations on the CDW state the results of which suggest
that the α₂ transition is a modified α₁ CDW state caused by directional
nesting of the Fermi surface.[21]

### 2. The α₃ transition

From 18 to 26 K an estimate of the lattice specific heat was
interpolated through the α₃ transition at 23 K and is shown in Fig. 7. A
baseline could not be drawn from the low-temperature to the
high-temperature side of the transition without a discontinuous change.
This obvious step in the baseline is consistent with a significant
lattice coupling associated with the α₃ transition. To confirm this
result, the specific heat was measured after cooling quickly through the
transition, and the resulting specific heat data show an almost
completely quenched transition. However, for slow cooling, the
transition appears as a rise in the specific heat with a rounded
transition. Despite the round shape of the transition, the presence of
the step change in the baseline is strong evidence for a first-order
phase change. Figure 8 illustrates the shape of the transition and the
discontinuous baseline in the excess specific heat. The abrupt drop in
the transition, as

Figure 8: The excess specific heat of the α₃ CDW transition is shown.
One can see the effect of the discontinuous baseline.

Figure 6: The excess specific heat of the α₁ and α₂ CDW transitions. The
lattice specific heat has been subtracted from the total specific heat
in order to more clearly show the shape of these transitions.

Figure 7: The α₃ CDW transition is shown on an expanded scale. There is
a obvious step in the lattice at this transition.

seen in Fig. 8, is an artifact of the baseline offset. Presumably, if
the transition were sharp, as would be the case for an ideally
first-order transition, the abrupt baseline change would be absent.
Integration of the C/T data yields an entropy of transition ΔS_(α3) =
0.05 J K⁻¹ mol⁻¹, an entropy that is half of the two higher-temperature
transitions.

### 3. T<10 K

The heat liberated from the depleted ²³⁸U sample during its α-decay
process prevented cooling to temperatures below 0.5 K in the
specific-heat measurements. The electronic term (γ) and the Debye
temperature (Θ_(D)) were obtained from a fit from 1.2 to 4 K using a
conventional C/T versus T² extrapolation represented by Eq. (2), and is
shown in Fig. 9

C/T = γ + B₃T².
(2)

A Debye temperature of 256 K (±0.25 K) and an electronic specific heat
of 9.13 mJ K⁻² mol⁻¹ was also obtained from this fit. The lattice
specific heat was fitted over a more extended temperature range from 1.2
to 10 K using the low-temperature expansion of the Debye function
represented by Eq. (3)

C_(V) = γT + B₃T³ + B₅T⁵ + B₇T⁷ + B₉T⁹ + B₁₁T¹¹ + B₁₃T¹³,
(3)

where the γ and B₃ terms were fixed at the values obtained from the C/T
extrapolation, and the required number of adjustable parameters for the
lattice (B_(n)) increased until a suitable fit was obtained. The
importance of the expression with adjustable coefficients is that that
is the form required for a lattice with harmonic forces, and large
harmonic softening of the phonon density of states for α-U has been
recently measured by inelastic neutron scattering.[22]

One can see a gradual upturn in the low-temperature C vs T data as shown
in the inset of Fig. 5. This upturn is the nuclear specific heat and
arises from the ²³⁵U hyperfine interaction. This hyperfine interaction
manifests itself as a nuclear Schottky anomaly, which has a T⁻²
temperature dependence in the high-temperature limit. The nuclear
specific heat was fitted to the expression

C = γT + B₃T³ + A T⁻²,
(4)

where γ and B₃ were fixed at the values obtained from the fit to Eq. (2)
and is shown as the line through the data in the inset of Fig. 5. A ²³⁵U
concentration of 0.58 at.

## IV IV. Conclusion

An abrupt drop in the resistivity was observed at 0.78 K (±0.05 K) and a
critical field H_(c)(0) = 74 mT (±4 mT) was obtained from the
low-temperature electrical resistivity measurements. The resistivity
data for the superconducting transition fits the qualitative form
expected for a type-I superconductor. Our electronic specific heat value
(γ = 9.13 mJ K⁻² mol⁻¹) is within experimental error with the value
previously reported by Bader _et al.[13]_ and Crangle and Temporal.[12]
In contrast, our Θ_(D) value of 256 K is higher than previously reported
calorimetric values and agrees more closely with the value obtained from
elastic constant measurements (250 K).[11]Agreement between Θ_(D) values
and

Figure 10: The low-temperature specific heat is shown without the
nuclear specific heat contribution. The nuclear specific heat, arising
from nuclear spin from the ²³⁵U isotope, was fit to Eq. (4) and
subtracted from the total specific heat. The appearance of the
oscillation at 1.2 K, although not entirely understood, it is not an
artifact of our temperature scale.

Figure 9: The fit of the low-temperature specific heat data to Eq. (2)
is shown.

from elastic constants and the thermal value indicate that the lattice
appears to be strain free, a result that is substantially different than
those obtained on single crystals grown by grain coarsening and perhaps
explain the higher T_(c). This result is confirmed by the measured
RRR≈115 for these crystals.

The characteristics of the CDW appear to be more prominent in this
sample as we observe transitions 1 K higher than previously measured.
Despite the previous characterization of the α₁ transition as second
order, we present evidence from a symmetrical-shaped transition that the
α₁ transition is first order. The transition at 37 K shows clear
first-order character and has a sharp peak in the excess specific heat.
It is noteworthy that the entropies of the α₁ and α₂ transitions are
equal, within experimental error. We also show evidence that the α₃
transition is first order and has a significant lattice component. The
entropy of the α₃ transition is half that of the α₁ and α₂ transitions.

###### Acknowledgements.

We are grateful to Al Arko for review of this manuscript. We are
indebted to Norman Phillips, Sam Bader, Ed Fisher, and Robert Fisher who
did much of the pioneering work on the heat capacity of uranium. Part of
this work was carried out at Brigham Young University and also at the
Los Alamos National Laboratory supported under the Primary Physics
Experiments Program, under the auspices of the Department of Energy.
This work was partially supported by the National Science Foundation
(NSF) under Grant No. DMR-0071947. The critical field and resistivity
measurements were made at the National High Magnetic Field Laboratory,
which is supported by NSF Cooperative Agreement No. DMR-9527035, and by
the state of Florida.

## References

* [1] G. H. Lander, E. S. Fisher, and S. D. Bader, Adv. Phys. **43**, 1
(1994). * [2] E. S. Fisher and H. J. McSkimin, Phys. Rev. **124**, 67
(1961). * [3] R. D. Fowler, B. T. Matthias, L. P. Asprey, H. H. Hill, J.
D. Lindsay, C. E. Olsen, and R. W. White, Phys. Rev. Lett. **19**, 892
(1967). * [4] J. C. Ho, N. E. Phillips, and T. F. Smith, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **17**, 694 (1966). * [5] H. G. Smith, N. Wakacayashi, W. P.
Crummett, R. M. Nicklow, G. H. Lander, and E. S. Fisher, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **44**, 1612 (1980). * [6] B. B. Goodman and D. Schoenberg, Nature
(London) **165**, 441 (1950). * [7] P. L. Smith and N. M. Wolcott,
Suppl. Bull. l’Institut Friod (Paris) **1**, 283 (1955). * [8] C. W.
Dempesy, J. E. Gordon, and R. H. Romer, Phys. Rev. Lett. **11**, 547
(1963). * [9] J. E. Gordon, H. Montgomery, R. J. Noer, S. Pickett, and
R. Tobon, Phys. Rev. **152**, 432 (1966). * [10] H. E. Flotow and D. W.
Osborne, Phys. Rev. **151**, 564 (1966). * [11] E. S. Fisher and D.
Dever, Phys. Rev. **179**, 607 (1968). * [12] J. Crangle and J.
Temporal, J. Phys. F: Met. Phys. **3**, 1097 (1973). * [13] S. D. Bader,
N. E. Phillips, and E. S. Fisher, Phys. Rev. B **12**, 4929 (1975). *
[14] C. W. Dempesy, J. E. Gordon, and R. H. Romer, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**11**, 547 (1963). * [15] W. E. Gardner and T. F. Smith, Phys. Rev.
**154**, 309 (1967). * [16] E. S. Fisher, T. H. Geballe, and J. M.
Schreyer, J. Appl. Phys. **39**, 4478 (1968). * [17] H. F. McFarlane, K.
M. Goff, F. S. Felicione, C. C. Dwight, and D. B. Barber, J. Met.
**14**, 1 (1997). * [18] C. C. McPheeters, E. C. Gay, P. J. Karell, and
J. P. Ackerman, J. Met. **49**, N7 (1997). * [19] B. F. Woodfield, Ph.D.
thesis, University of California−Berkeley, 1995. * [20] J. C. Lashley,
Ph.D. thesis, Brigham Young University, 2000. * [21] L. Fast, O.
Eriksson, B. Johansson, J. M. Wills, G. Straub, H. Roeder, and L.
Nordstrom, Phys. Rev. Lett. **81**, 2978 (1998). * [22] M. E. Manley, B.
Fultz, R. J. McQueeney, C. M. Brown, W. L. Hults, J. L. Smith, D. J.
Thoma, R. Osborn, and J. L. Robertson, Phys. Rev. Lett. **86**, 3076
(2001).
