Zn-doping effect on the magnetotransport properties of
Bi₂Sr_(2 − x)La_(x)CuO_(6 + δ) single crystals

Y. Hanaki,^(1, 2, •) Yoichi Ando,^(1, 2, •) S. Ono,¹ and J. Takeya¹

¹Central Research Institute of Electric Power Industry, Komae, Tokyo
201-8511, Japan

²Department of Physics, Science University of Tokyo, Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo
162-8601, Japan

27 June 2001; published 15 October 2001

###### Abstract

We report the magnetotransport properties of
Bi₂Sr_(2 − x)La_(x)CuO_(1 − x)Zn_(x)O_(6 + δ) (Zn-doped BSLCO) single
crystals with z of up to 2.2

pacs: DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.64.172514 PACS number(s): 74.72.Hs,
74.25.Fy, 74.62.Dh, 74.20.Mn + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL REVIEW B,
VOLUME 64, 172514

Effects of nonmagnetic Zn impurities on the electronic properties of the
high-T_(c) cuprates have been intensively studied, employing almost all
available experimental tools. However, well-controlled studies of the
Zn-doping effects using high-quality single crystals have been mostly
limited to the YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) (YBCO) system and the
La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄ (LSCO) system because of the availability of single
crystals; for example, in the otherwise well-studied system of
Bi₂Sr₂CaCu₂O_(8 + δ) (Bi-2212), high-quality single crystals can be
grown with only up to ∼ 1

One of the most peculiar charge transport properties of the cuprates is
that two distinct scattering rates, τ_(tr)⁻¹ and τ_(H)⁻¹, possibly
govern the in-plane resistivity ρ_(ab) and the Hall angle θ_(H),
respectively. Zn impurities have been believed to induce [3, 4] residual
terms in both τ_(tr)⁻¹ and τ_(H)⁻¹, which ultimately lead to charge
localization [5]; these residual scattering rates may well be related
[6] to the local moments induced by the nonmagnetic Zn impurities [7],
though the role of the local moments in the charge transport in cuprates
is not well understood yet. It would thus be meaningful to look for some
peculiar features that is clearly due to the local moments in the
transport properties of the Zn-doped BSLCO crystals.

Perhaps the best-known effect of Zn-doping in cuprates is the rapid
suppression of T_(c) . The rate of T_(c) suppression has been known to
be around 10−15 K/at.

In this paper, we report the charge transport properties in Zn-doped
BSLCO (Bi₂Sr_(2 − x)La_(x)Cu_(1 − x)Zn_(x)O_(6 + δ)) single crystals
with z of up to 2.2

The crystals are grown by a floating-zone technique as reported
previously [1]. We have demonstrated [1, 2, 12] that our crystals are
among the best available BSLCO crystals in terms of optimum T_(c) (which
is as high as 38 K), residual resistivity, and the control of hole
doping. The La concentrations in the crystals are determined by the
electron-probe microanalysis (EPMA), and the actual Zn concentrations
are measured by the inductively-coupled plasma (ICP) analysis; the
errors in x and z are estimated to be ± 0.01 and ± 0.002, respectively.
For the transport measurements, the crystals are cut into dimensions
typically 1 x 0.5 x 0.02 mm³. The thickness of the samples are
calculated from their weight (measured with 0.1-_m_g resolution) to
accurately determine the absolute values of ρ_(ab) and the Hall
coefficient R_(H) . All the crystals are annealed in air at 650 degC for
48 h and quenched to room temperature to achieve uniform oxygen
distribution. A standard ac six-probe method is employed to measure
ρ_(ab) and R_(H) . The magnetoresistance and R_(H) are measured by
sweeping the magnetic field to both plus and minus polarities at
constant temperatures [1]. For the non-superconducting samples with
(x, z) = (0.66,0.022), we measure both the transverse and longitudinal
magnetoresistance (MR) down to 450 mK in a ³He refrigerator where the
temperature control during the magnetic-field sweep is done with a
stability of ∼ 1 mK using a capacitance sensor embedded in the sample
stage.

Figures 1(a) and 1(b) show temperature dependences of ρ_(ab) for x =
0.50 and 0.66 with various Zn concentrations. One can see that at both x
the ρ_(ab)(T) curves are almost

parallel-shifted upon Zn doping, indicating that the main effect of Zn
impurities on ρ_(ab) is to increase a temperature-independent residual
term in τ_(tr)⁻¹. In the x = 0.50 series [Fig. 1(a)], there is a
reasonably wide region of T-linear resistivity at high temperatures, so
that we can estimate the pseudogap temperature T* for each Zn
concentration from the downward deviation of the ρ_(ab)(T) curves from
the T-linear behavior. The inset of Fig. 1(a) shows the plots of
[ρ_(ab)(T)−ρ₀]/aT vs T (where a is the T-linear slope and ρ₀ is the
zero-temperature intercept of the T-linear behavior), which make it
clear that the deviation takes place at nearly the same temperature (∼
300 K) for all z. Thus, as was reported [13] for YBCO, T* as determined
from ρ_(ab)(T) does not move with Zn doping in BSLCO.

In the x = 0.66 series [Fig. 1(b)], it is notable that the
superconductor-to-insulator (SI) transition occurs around ρ_(ab) of ∼
400 μΩ cm, which corresponds to the sheet resistance per CuO₂ plane of ∼
3.3 kΩ; this is half the quantum value h/(2ϵ)² (≈6.5 kΩ) and thus
differs by a factor of 2 from the result of the critical sheet
resistance obtained [4, 13] for YBCO and LSCO, indicating that the
"universal" critical sheet resistance for the SI transition is not
exactly universal for the cuprates. We emphasize that the uncertainty in
the absolute value of ρ_(ab) is less than 10

The inset of Fig. 1(b) shows the suppression of T_(c) upon Zn doping for
the two x values; the suppression rates are almost the same for the two
cases and is about 13 K/at.

Figures 2(a) and 2(b) show the temperature dependences of R_(H) for the
two series. For each x, the magnitude of R_(H) does not change with z
above 200 K, demonstrating that the Zn substitution does not change the
hole concentration. At lower temperatures, R_(H) becomes z dependent and
the peak in R_(H)(T) shows a nonmonotonic change upon Zn doping. As is
the case with other systems, the complicated change in R_(H)(T) can be
simplified by looking at the Hall angle. Figures 2(c) and 2(d) show the
plots of cot θ_(H) vs T² for the two series. All the data of cotθ_(H)
are almost linear in T² and

Figure 2: (a),(b): T dependences of R_(H) for (a) x = 0.50 and (b) x =
0.66 with various z. (c),(d): Plots of cot θ_(H) vs T² for the two
series. (e),(f): Plots of (cotθ_(H)–c)/bT² vs T for the two series,
which emphasize the deviation from the T² behavior.

appear to be parallel-shifted upon Zn doping, suggesting that the Zn
impurities increase a temperature-independent residual term in τ_(H)⁻¹;
this is actually the behavior that led to the two-scattering-rate
scenario[3] and thus is typical for the cuprates. Upon closer look at
the data in Figs. 2(c) and 2(d), one may notice that at low temperatures
there is an upward deviation from the T² behavior in the Zn-doped
samples. To make this point clear, Figs. 2(e) and 2(f) show the plots of
(cot θ_(H)-c)/bT² vs T, where b is the T² slope and c is the
zero-temperature intercept of the linear-in-T² behavior. One can see
that the deviation becomes systematically more pronounced as z is
increased; this behavior most likely reflects some localization effect
in the Hall channel and is probably responsible for the weakening of the
temperature dependence of R_(H) upon Zn doping.

As already noted, the superconductivity is completely suppressed in the
2.2

It is found that R_(H) of the non-superconducting Zn-doped samples also
shows an upturn at low temperatures [Fig. 3(a)]; this is again in
contrast to the R_(H)(T) behavior of the pristine samples[16] under 60
T, which becomes essentially temperature independent at low
temperatures. The rather strong temperature dependence of R_(H) below ∼
3 K in the Zn-doped samples strongly suggests that the Zn-induced charge
localization is _not_ due to a simple weak localization effect.[16]

We can obtain further insight into the Zn-induced localized state from
the magnetoresistance (MR), which turns out to be negative at low
temperatures and is very peculiar. Figure 3(b) shows the MR at 450 mK
for three geometries; the sample was cut so that the current I flows
along the b axis, and the magnetic field H is applied along a,b
(longitudinal geometry), and c (transverse geometry). There is
essentially no anisotropy between H∥a and H∥b. The anisotropy between
H∥b and H∥c is less than a factor of 2 and the H dependences for the two
geometries are almost exactly the same. Therefore, we can conclude that
the MR is essentially isotropic and thus is of spin origin. The H
dependence of this negative MR is not H² but is reminiscent of the H
dependence expected for Kondo scattering.[17, 18, 19] Since the Kondo
effect should yield isotropic MR, the main features of the MR observed
here appears to be consistent, at least qualitatively, with what is
expected for the Kondo effect. It is useful to note that a very
anisotropic negative MR coming from weak localization has been
observed[20] in nonsuperconducting samples of pristine
Bi₂Sr₂CuO_(6 + δ), which is contrasting to our observation in the
Zn-doped samples.

The evolution of the MR with temperature is shown in Fig. 4 for H∥c and
H∥b. The MR becomes predominantly negative below ∼5 K, which is nearly
the same as the onset temperature of the low-temperature upturn in
R_(H)(T), and

Figure 4: Magnetoresistance of a 2.2

Figure 3: (a) log T plot of ρ_(b) of a 2.2

therefore the negative MR and the increase in R_(H) appear to have a
common origin. It is useful to note that the Kondo scattering is
expected to become effective simultaneously in the MR and in the Hall
effect.[19] Thus, all the above results of the low-temperature MR and
R_(H) seem to be most consistent with the Kondo effect, which may be
caused[6, 21, 22] by the local moments[7] induced by the Zn impurities.
The possibility that the Kondo effect is playing a major role in the
Zn-doped samples also explains the various differences between the
normal state in the Zn-doped samples and that in pristine samples under
high magnetic fields. For more quantitative understanding of the
possible Kondo effect in the cuprates, theoretical calculations for the
Kondo scattering in the non-Fermi-liquid ground state of the cuprates
would be required.

To summarize, in the BSLCO crystals we observed quite typical Zn-doping
effects on ρ_(ab)(T) and cut θ_(H)(T), and found no 1/8 anomaly in the
T_(c) suppression rate. Comparison of the low-temperature normal state
brought about by Zn doping to that brought about by high magnetic field
reveals significant difference between the two, which highlights the
peculiar nature of the charge-localized state in the Zn-doped samples.
The negative MR and the upturn in R_(H) observed at low temperatures
strongly suggest that the Kondo scattering due to the local moments
induced by Zn is playing a key role.

We thank S. Uchida and A. N. Lavrov for helpful discussions and T.
Murayama for technical assistance.

## References

* [1] Y. Ando and T. Murayama, Phys. Rev. B **60**, R6991 (1999). * [2]
Y. Ando, Y. Hanaki, S. Ono, T. Murayama, K. Segawa, N. Miyamoto, and S.
Komiya, Phys. Rev. B **61**, R14 956 (2000); **63**, 069902(E) (2001). *
[3] T.R. Chien, Z.Z. Wang, and N.P. Ong, Phys. Rev. Lett. **67**, 2088
(1991). * [4] Y. Fukuzumi, K. Mizuhashi, K. Takenaka, and S. Uchida,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **76**, 684 (1996). * [5] K. Segawa and Y. Ando, Phys.
Rev. B **59**, R3948 (1999). * [6] N. Nagaosa and P. A. Lee, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **79**, 3755 (1997). * [7] H. Alloul, P. Mendels, H. Casalto,
J.-F. Marucco, and J. Arabski, Phys. Rev. Lett. **67**, 3140 (1991). *
[8] Y. Koike, S. Takeuchi, Y. Hama, H. Sato, T. Adachi, and M. Kato,
Physica C **282-287**, 1233 (1997). * [9] M. Akoshima, T. Noji, Y. Ono,
and Y. Koike, Phys. Rev. B **57**, 7491 (1998). * [10] K. Hirota, K.
Yamada, I. Tanaka, and H. Kojima, Physica B **241-243**, 817 (1998). *
[11] J. M. Tranquada, B. J. Sternlieb, J. D. Axe, Y. Nakamura, and S.
Uchida, Nature (London) **375**, 561 (1995). * [12] S. Ono, Y. Ando, T.
Murayama, F. F. Balakirev, J. B. Betts, and G. S. Boebinger, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **85**, 638 (2000). * [13] K. Mizuhashi, K. Takenaka, Y. Fukuzumi,
and S. Uchida, Phys. Rev. B **52**, R3884 (1995). * [14] This
observation is actually in good accord with the MI crossover (Ref. 12)
occurring at p= 1/8 in pristine BSLCO, because such MI crossover could
mean that the static stripes (which presumably cause charge localization
in the normal state) disappear above p= 1/8 in BSLCO. * [15] The sample
measured for Fig. 3(a) is different from that for Fig. 1(b). We have
measured more than 10 samples from the same batch of (x, z)=
(0.66,0.022), and found that the resistivity values at 300 K differ by
up to 20 * [16] Y. Ando, G.S. Boebinger, A. Passner, N. L. Wang, C.
Geibel, F. Steglich, I. E. Trofimov, and F. F. Balakirev, Phys. Rev. B
**56**, R8530 (1997). * [17] N. Andrei, K. Furuya, and J. H. Lowenstein,
Rev. Mod. Phys. **55**, 331 (1983). * [18] P. Schlottmann, Phys. Rep.
**181**, 1 (1989). * [19] J. Ruvalds and Q. G. Sheng, Phys. Rev. B
**37**, 1959 (1988). * [20] T. W. Jing, N. P. Ong, T. V. Ramakrishnan,
J. M. Tarascon, and K. Remschnig, Phys. Rev. Lett. **67**, 761 (1991). *
[21] J. Bobroff, W. A. MacFarlane, H. Alloul, P. Mendels, N. Blanchard,
G. Collin, and J.-F. Marucco, Phys. Rev. Lett. **83**, 4381 (1999). *
[22] F. Rullier-Albenque, H. Alloul, and R. Tourbot, cond-mat/0102294
(unpublished).
