**Superconductivity in TaSi₂ single crystals**

U. Gottlieb

_Laboratoire des Materiaux et du Genie Physique, Ecole Nationale
Superieure de Physique de Grenoble, Institut National Polytechnique de
Grenoble, Bôte Postale 46, 38402 St. Martin d’Heres, France and Centre
de Recherches sur les Tres Basses Temperatures, Centre National de la
Recherche Scientifique, Bôte Postale 166, 38042 Grenoble CEDEX 9,
France_

J. C. Lasjaunias and J. L. Tholence

_Centre de Recherches sur les Tres Basses Temperatures, Centre National
de la Recherche Scientifique, Bôte Postale 166, 38042 Grenoble CEDEX 9,
France_

O. Laborde

_Centre de Recherches sur les Tres Basses Temperatures, Centre National
de la Recherche Scientifique, Bôte Postale 166, 38042 Grenoble CEDEX 9,
France_

_and Service National des Champs Intenses, Centre National de la
Recherche Scientifique, Bôte Postale 166, 38042 Grenoble CEDEX 9,
France_

O. Thomas and R. Madar

_Laboratoire des Materiaux et du Genie Physique, Ecole National
Superieure de Physique de Grenoble, Institut National Polytechnique de
Grenoble, Bôte Postale 46, 38402 St. Martin d’Heres, France_

(Received 25 October 1991)

We have measured the magnetization and the specific heat of
single-crystalline TaSi₂ at very low temperatures (0.1 K <= 7.5 K).
TaSi₂ is superconducting below _T_(e)_ = 0.353 K, with _H_(e)_(_T_ = 0
K) = 2.98 mT. We estimate and discuss the microscopic superconductivity
parameters. TaSi₂ is found to be a type-I superconductor with weak
electron-phonon coupling.

Among the silicides of transition metals, some of the A15 compounds,
like V3Si and Nb3Si,1 are known to be superconductors with high
transition temperatures (_T_(c)_ = 17.1 K for V3Si). For the transition
metal disilicides, however, superconductivity has only been reported for
one compound, CoSi₂, with a critical temperature near 1 K.2
Superconductivity has already been found in thin films of TaSi₂ and
NbSi₂,3 but has not been confirmed on bulk samples. In order to continue
our previous investigations on the intrinsic characteristics and
properties of the disilicides of transition metals,4 we have measured
the magnetization and the low temperature specific heat of TaSi₂ single
crystals. TaSi₂ crystallizes in the hexagonal C40 structure (space group
P6,22). Large single crystals of TaSi₂ were grown by a modified
Czochralski technique.5 These crystals were of large size (several cm3),
and of very good quality, which is reflected by the high residual
resistance ratios (RRR > 400, see Refs. 4, 6, and 7). The largest
crystal was used for specific heat measurements. Smaller samples for
resistivity and magnetization measurements were cut from another
crystal.

**Magnetization measurements were made by the extraction (between two
pick-up coils) technique; the field is given by a copper coil cooled by
liquid nitrogen, and it can vary between -300 mT and +300 mT with small
hysteresis. The low temperatures were obtained with a miniaturized
dilution refrigerator,8 which is moved with the sample. The sample was a
single crystalline parallelepiped (≈8 x 0.6 x 0.5 mm3) with length along
the [10$\overline{1}$0] direction, mounted parallel to the field. In
Fig. 1 we present the magnetization for two temperatures versus the
effective magnetic field _H${}_{\rm eff}$_ at the sample surface. We
obtained _H${}_{\rm eff}$_ by correcting the applied field with the
demagnetization factor N. N = 1.03 x 10-2 had been determined from the
sample shape and it corre

Figure 1: Magnetization vs effective magnetic field for 0.1 K (O:
increasing field; •: decreasing field) and 0.25 K (□: increasing field;
□: decreasing field; plotted lines are a guide for the eye.

sponds to the value obtained from the transition width of our
measurements before field correction. The magnetization increases
linearly with the corrected field and then falls off sharply at the
critical field H_(c). The proportionality factor deviates only by about
8

The specific heat of another piece of single crystal (2.426 gr in
weight) has been measured between 0.1 and 7.5 K on a dilution
refrigerator. We used a transient heat pulse technique with a similar
sample arrangement as already described.9 A detailed analysis of the
total specific heat will be given in a future paper. We only give here a
short discussion of the electronic contribution to the specific heat
C_(es), and of the superconducting transition.

Above 1 K, TaSi₂ behaves like a normal metal with a specific heat that
follows a γT + βT³ law. The value of β determined from a least-squares
fit to the data in this temperature region is β = 0.058 mJ/mol K4,
corresponding to a Debye temperature Th of 465 K. This value is in good
agreement with the Debye temperature determined from resistivity
measurements.6 At very low temperatures (T < 0.3 K) we observe a
specific heat increasing with decreasing temperature. This is due to the
nuclear electric quadrupolar contribution, originating from the 181Ta
nuclei.10 It follows a αT⁻² law (α = 0.136 mJ K/mol). In Fig. 2 we
represent the electronic contribution to the specific heat between 0.1
and 0.6 K. We obtained it after subtracting the phonon contribution βT³
and the nuclear quadrupolar contribution αT⁻² from the measured specific
heat. We obtain a superconducting transition at T_(c) = (353 ± 3) mK.
The transition temperature obtained by specific heat is in good
agreement with that obtained from magnetization measurements. We note
the very sharp transition width of about 6 mK.

Above the transition temperature, i.e. in the normal state, the
electronic specific heat C_(en) increases linearly with temperature:
C_(en) = γT with γ = 3.2 mJ/mol K2 just above T_(c). Below the
transition temperature the electronic part of the specific heat in the
superconducting state C_(es), vanishes exponentially. In Fig. 2 we have
also plotted the exponential variation of the specific heat given by BCS
theory:11C_(es)/γT_(c) = 9.35 exp(−1.44T_(c)/T). Our data fit it very
well if we take into account the important dispersion of our results,
since the electronic part of the specific heat contributes by less than
10

$$\frac{\Delta C}{\gamma T_{c}} = 1.40\pm 0.05\ ,$$

where ΔC is the difference between the specific heat in the
superconducting and the normal state at the transition temperature. This
value is in very good agreement with the value of 1.43 given by BCS
theory. Within a free electron model we can calculate the carrier
density n from γ:

$$\gamma = \frac{\pi^{2}k_{B}^{2}N_{0}m}{\hbar^{2}(3\pi^{2}n)^{2/3}}\ .$$

N₀ is the Avogadro number and we have n ≃ 0.5 × 10²² cm⁻³, which is in
very good agreement with the carrier density deduced from
magnetoresistance measurements.6

From the Debye temperature Th and the transition temperature T_(c) we
have calculated the electron-phonon coupling parameter λ using the
McMillan formula:12$T_{c} = \frac{\Theta}{1.45}$
exp$\left[ - \frac{1.04(1 + \lambda)}{\lambda - \mu^{*}(1 + 0.62\lambda)} \right]\ ,$
where μ^(*) is the Coulomb pseudopotential. If we use μ^(*) = 0.1, we
obtain λ = 0.32. We have also calculated the electron-phonon coupling
parameter λ_(tr) from transport properties. In the high temperature
limit, where the resistivity ρ is linear with T, it can be written as13

$$\rho = \frac{2\pi mk_{B}T}{ne^{2}\hbar^{2}}\lambda_{tr}\ \ (T > > \Theta)\ .$$

The Bloch-Gruneisen formula gives, for ρ,6

$$\rho = A\left[ \frac{T}{\Theta} \right]^{5}\int_{0}^{(\Theta/T)}\frac{z^{5}}{(e^{z} - 1)(1 - e^{-z})}dz$$

and, in the high temperature limit,

$$\rho = \frac{A}{4\Theta}T\ \ (T > > \Theta)\ .$$

Figure 2: Electronic part of the specific heat vs temperature compared
to the exponential form given by BCS theory and compared with γT in the
normal state.

Relating Eqs. (1) and (2) we can calculate $\lambda_{\rm tr}$. We use _A
/_th_ 0.5 μΩ cm/K by taking the average for the three main
crystallographic directions.6 With n ≈ 0.5 × 10²² cm⁻³, we obtain
$\lambda_{\rm tr} = 0.23$. Taking account of the very crude
approximations, this result is in very good agreement with λ deduced
from the McMillan formula. The small λ indicates that TaSi₂ is a
superconductor in the weak-coupling limit, and so it should follow very
well the BCS model.

The electron-phonon coupling causes γ to be enhanced by a factor (1 + λ)
and we have

$$\gamma = (1 + \lambda)_{\rm i}^{\frac{1}{2}}\pi^{2}k_{B}^{2}N(E_{F})\ .$$

We take λ = 0.32 and obtain, for the bare density of states,
N(E_(F)) ≈ 1.0 states/unit cell eV (three TaSi₂ by unit cell) and a
charge carrier density n ≈ 0.7 × 10²² cm⁻³. The order of magnitude of n
is not changed by the corrections. Using this value and in the framework
of the free electron model we can calculate the microscopic
superconducting parameters14 (in SI units):

The coherence length ξ₀,

$$\xi_{0} = 0.18\frac{\hbar w_{F}}{k_{B}T_{c}} = 2.5 \times 10^{- 6}\ \mathrm{m}\ ,$$

the London penetration depth λ_(L),

$$\lambda_{L} = \left( \frac{m}{\mu_{0}ne^{2}} \right)^{1/2} = 6.3 \times 10^{- 8}\ \mathrm{m}\ ,$$

and the parameter κ,

$$\kappa = \frac{\lambda_{L}}{\xi_{0}} = 0.025\ .$$

The small value of κ, i.e., ξ₀ >  > λ_(L), confirms our result from the
magnetization measurements, that TaSi₂ is a type-I superconductor. With
the resistivity results from Ref. 6 we estimate the mean free path
l ≈ 10⁻⁵ m. We have l > ξ₀, i.e., for our sample we find, that TaSi₂ is
a superconductor in the "clean limit." Surely the free electron model is
only a very crude approximation for the real material, but it indicates
at least the orders of magnitude of the calculated values.

From the specific heat data in the superconducting state, we have
calculated the critical field H_(c) as a function of temperature.15 At
T = 0 K we have H_(c)(0) ≈ (2.98 ± 0.1) mT, which is in quite good
agreement with the result obtained by magnetization measurements. The
slightly different values are not very surprising, since we used two
samples cut off from different crystals. As usual, we have calculated
γT_(c)²/VH_(c)²(0) ≈ 0.17 (in cgs units, V is the molar volume), which
correspond very well with the BCS limit of 0.168.14 Finally, in order to
show the good agreement of our results for H_(c)(T) with BCS theory, we
have plotted in Fig. 3 the deviation function D(T/T_(c)) compared with
BCS theory. D(T/T_(c)) is defined by

$$D(T/T_{c}) = \frac{H_{c}(T/T_{c})}{H_{c}(0)} - \left[ 1 - \left[ \frac{T}{T_{c}} \right]^{2} \right]\ ,$$

i.e., it describes the deviation of H_(c)(T) from a parabola. The bars
in Fig. 3 are an estimation of the uncertainty of our results.

Because of the long mean free path l, TaSi₂ is a superconductor in the
clean limit. Like the majority of pure metals, it is a type-I
superconductor. For CoSi₂, the transition temperature depends strongly
on stoichiometry and on crystal defects.2 Our samples of TaSi₂, however,
are very pure with only few defects. This is confirmed both by the high
residual resistance ratios4,6,7 and by our results for two different
samples, reported here, since they are the same in the limit of the
precision of our different measurements. Nevertheless, crystal defects
can strongly modify the superconducting properties, as it is suggested
by the results from thin film measurements.3 A detailed study must still
be carried out before one can understand the influence of crystal
defects and stoichiometry on the superconductivity of TaSi₂.

After CoSi₂, TaSi₂ is only the second transition-metal disilicide for
which superconductivity has been found on bulk samples. By magnetization
and specific heat measurements on different samples, we found a
transition temperature of (0.353 ±0.003) K and a critical magnetic field
at zero temperature of (2.98 ±0.1) mT. TaSi₂ is a type-I superconductor
with weak electron-phonon coupling and its properties follow very well
predictions of the BCS model.

## References

* [1] D. Dew-Hughes, Cryogenics **15**, 435 (1975). * [2] A. Briggs, O.
Thomas, R. Madar, and J. P. Senateur, Appl. Surf. Sci. **38**, 88
(1989). * [3] C. M. Knoedler and D. H. Douglass, J. Low Temp. Phys.
**37**, 189 (1979). * [4] F. Nava, E. Mazzega, M. Michelini, O. Laborde,
O. Thomas, J. P. Senateur, and R. Madar, J. Appl. Phys. **65**, 1584
(1989), and references therein.

* [50] O. Thomas, J. P. Senateur, R. Madar, O. Laborde, and E.
Rosencher, Solid State Commun. **55**, 629 (1985). * [51] U. Gottlieb,
O. Laborde, O. Thomas, F. Weiss, A. Rouault, J. P. Senateur, and R.
Madar, Surf. Coatings Technol. **45**, 237 (1991). * [52] U. Gottlieb,
O. Laborde, O. Thomas, A. Rouault, J. P. Senateur, and R. Madar, Appl.
Surf. Sci. **53**, 247 (1991). * [53] This dilute is now produced by SMC
TBT, Orly FRET 748, 94398 Orly Aerogare CEDEX, France. * [54] O.
Laborde, J. C. Lasjaunias, R. Marani, A. Rouault, and R. Madar, Phys.
Rev. B **41**, 9721 (1990). * [55]_Hyperfine Interactions_, edited by A.
J. Freeman and R. B. Frankel (Academic, New York-London, 1967), Chap.
10. * [56] J. Bardeen, and J. R. Schrieffer in, _Progress in Low
Temperature Physics_, edited by C. J. Gorter (North-Holland, Amsterdam,
1961), Vol. III, p. 207. * [57] W. L. McMillan, Phys. Rev. **167**, 331
(1968). * [58] G. Grimvall, in _Selected Topics in Solid State Physics_,
edited by E. P. Wohlfarth (North-Holland, Amsterdam, 1981), Vol. XVI,
Chap. 1. * [59] M. Tinkham, _Introduction To Superconductivity_
(McGraw-Hill, New York, 1975). * [60] More details about numerical
calculations are given in F. Zougmore, O. Laborde, and J. C. Lasjaunias,
J. Low Temp. Phys. **69**, 189 (1987).
