# Observation of superconductivity in PrBa₂Cu₃O₇

H. A. Blackstead

Department of Physics, University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana
46556

John D. Dow

Department of Physics, Arizona State University, Tempe, Arizona
85287-1504

D. B. Chrisey

Naval Research Laboratory, Code 6672, Washington, D.C. 20375

M. A. Black

Department of Chemical Engineering, University of Notre Dame, Notre
Dame, Indiana 46556

P. J. McGinn

Department of Physics, University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana
46556

A. E. Klunzinger

Department of Physics, University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana
46556

D. B. Pulling

Department of Physics, University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana
46556

4 April 1995; revised manuscript received 13 May 1996

###### Abstract

Inhomogeneous superconductivity in PrBa₂Cu₃O₇ at ≈92 K is observed in
surface resistance measurements (at microwave frequencies) and in
diamagnetism (Meissner effect) detected by ESR of trace amounts of Cu
impurity spins. These observations are interpreted in terms of the
oxygen model. [S0163-1829(96)03433-9]

The purported lack of superconductivity in PrBa₂Cu₃O₇, in contrast with
almost all other (rare-earth)-Ba₂Cu₃O₇ compounds, is a perplexing
anomaly with a variety of explanations, none of which is generally
accepted: direct pair breaking by Abrikosov-Gor’kov exchange
scattering,1,2 magnetic hybridization leading to pair breaking,3 subtle
magnetic interactions,4 and charge compensation (hole-filling).5,6 Most
of these theories of nonsuperconductivity in PrBa₂Cu₃O₇ (i) are
_homogeneous_, featuring the same physics in every unit cell, (ii) have
rare-earth Pr ions occupying only rare-earth sites, and (iii) assume
that the superconductivity originates in the cuprate planes adjacent to
the rare-earth sites [Fig. 1 (Refs. 7 and 8)]. These three signatures
are susceptible to experimental investigation.

In this paper we report observation of _inhomogeneous_ superconductivity
with a critical temperature _T_(c)_ =92 K in PrBa₂Cu₃O₇,
superconductivity that was _predicted_ on the basis of the oxygen model
9-11 which locates the origin of superconductivity _in the vicinity of
the chain layers_ of (rare-earth)Ba₂Cu₃O₇ (Fig. 1) and assigns the
nonsuperconductivity of PrBa₂Cu₃O₇ to pair breaking by _Ba-site magnetic
Pr_ (Refs. 8 and 12)–an inhomogeneous phenomenon. In this model, Pr
often occupies Ba sites, where it breaks pairs and destroys
superconductivity that originates in the adjacent charge-reservoir
oxygen, e.g., in the vicinity of the Cu-O chains. Statistically, some
regions of the material that are larger than a coherence volume have no
Ba-site Pr, and the model predicts that these regions superconduct. To
our knowledge, there have been few, if any, previous successful
theoretical predictions of superconductivity in a new material;13 most
new superconductors have been discovered using empirical rules. This
particular prediction is especially satisfying because so many
theories14,15 have predicted that PrBa₂Cu₃O₇_cannot superconduct_.

We assume that the two keys to observing superconductivity in PrBa₂Cu₃O₇
are (i) samples prepared under growth conditions that minimize the
amount of Ba-site Pr (Pr is known to be rather soluble on Ba sites,
where the magnetic Pr ions break pairs and destroy superconductivity in
the adjacent layers;16-21 in general, rare-earth ions with radii larger
than the radius of Gd + 3 are commonly found on Ba sites [7; 15; 16; 22;
23; 24; 25; 26; 27; 28; 29], and (ii) detection schemes sensitive to the
small _regions_ of superconducting PrBa₂Cu₃O₇_that contain no Ba-site
Pr_. To superconduct, these defect-free regions must be larger than a
coherence volume _V_(ξ)_   k   k   k   k   k   k   k   k   k   k   k   k
  k   k   k   k   k   k   k   k   k   k   k   k   k     k   k     k    
k     k     _k_ barium cuprate. The purpose of introducing these trace
impurity phases (which are difficult to avoid, anyway) is to measure
with sufficient sensitivity the diamagnetic screening (Meissner effect)
associated with the regions of superconductivity: the intensity of the
ESR signal is proportional to the number of resonating or unscreened Cu
spins.[32] Thus, as the sample temperature is reduced through the
superconducting transition temperature, the ESR signal intensity should
drop dramatically, reflecting the sudden onset of diamagnetism in the
superconducting regions. It does.

The proposed mechanism of pair breaking by Ba-site Pr has not been
previously taken seriously because Rietveld refinements of ordinary
neutron-scattering spectra have not detected significant amounts of Pr
on Ba sites. The neutron-scattering lengths of Ba and Pr are almost
equal, however, making it very difficult to discriminate Pr from Ba.[33]
However, other spectroscopies, most notably spin-polarized neutron
scattering,[20] magic-angle spinning nuclear magnetic resonance,[19]
x-ray measurements,[17] and chemical analyses[16] have all provided
evidence of Ba-site Pr in PrBa₂Cu₃O₇. Furthermore, oxygen occupying
antichain sites is a good indicator of Ba-site occupancy by
(rare-earth)⁺ ions:[18, 25] Pr occupies Ba sites approximately in
proportion to its total concentration. Thus the data taken together
suggest that PrBa₂Cu₃O₇ commonly contains of order several percent
Ba-site Pr.[16, 17, 19, 20, 21] Such Pr ions are expected to be in the
+3 ionic state,[34, 35] and could be magnetic pair breakers if they are
nearest neighbors to the oxygen ions whose Cooper-paired holes
superconduct.

The possible _magnetic_ nature of the pair breaking in PrBa₂Cu₃O₇ can be
inferred by comparison with data for LaBa₂Cu₃O₇, a material which can be
prepared with up to ^(∼)50

Figure 2 shows the observed temperature-dependent changes in the surface
resistance of a single film. These data, which are typical of five films
examined, feature a transition with an onset temperature of T_(c)=92 K,
and a 90-10

Figure 1: Crystal structure of PrBa₂Cu₃O₇. Note that a magnetic impurity
on a Ba site should break Cooper pairs in an adjacent chain layer, in a
BaO layer, or in an adjacent cuprate plane _via_ the exchange
interaction, which has a range of about the nearest-neighbor distance.
However, a magnetic ion at the rare-earth (Pr) site is adjacent to two
cuprate planes, but remote from the charge-reservoir chains. The
observation that Ba-site magnetic (J ≠ 0) rare-earth ions such as Pr
destroy superconductivity, while the same magnetic rare-earth ions on
rare-earth sites do not (Refs. 7 and 8), indicates that the
superconductivity originates in the vicinity of the chains, not in the
planes.

Figure 2: Observed change in surface resistance (in ohms with a scale
that is arbitrary to within a factor of about 2) of PrBa₂Cu₃O₇ film
_versus_ temperature (in K). The dashed line is the extrapolated curve
for nonsuperconducting material. Note the lower surface resistance for
T<92 K associated with superconductivity of ^(∼)7

the YBa₂Cu₃O₇ sample superconducts (a larger deviation from the dashed
line). In YBa₂Cu₃O₇ we have observed transition widths of 1 to 30 K,
depending on sample preparation. Since the substrate is insulating MgO,
the PrBa₂Cu₃O₇ observations must come from superconductivity in the
film, not in the substrate.

We consider unlikely the possibility that ∼ 7

While the drop in surface resistance was strong evidence of
superconductivity, observation of diamagnetism (Meissner effect) at ≈ 92
K constituted stronger proof. In the thin films (thickness ∼ 3000 A), a
conventional Meissner-effect measurement is difficult because of the
strong paramagnetic background of Pr, the small thin-film volume, and
the granular character of the ∼ 7

These results, although novel, in retrospect should not be very
surprising. Norton _et al._ reported superconductivity in thin films of
Pr_(0.5)Ca_(0.5)Ba₂Cu₃O₇, but not in bulk material, which was insulating
[62]. Furthermore, their superconductivity depended rather critically on
the _substrate temperatures_ of their films. Such data are clear
indications of a kinetic effect, and suggest that the Pr solubility on
Ba sites is controlled sensitively by the substrate temperature and the
sample preparation scheme [43]–which may be why Norton _et al._ observed
superconductivity at all. Their film samples probably contained modest
amounts of pair-breaking Ba-site Pr–which is why their superconducting
transition temperature was considerably lower than ≈ 92 K, namely 43 K,
but was not zero (as in their bulk samples).

Therefore, our experiments provide evidence that (i) fully oxygenated
PrBa₂Cu₃O₇ (presumably when mostly in its

Figure 3: Observed change in the number of resonating or unscreened
spins (in arbitrary units) _versus_ temperature (in K). The number of
unscreened spins in this powder is the product of temperature and the
observed intensity of the ESR signal of trace amounts of Cu spins having
the g factor of Pr₂BaCuO₅ or barium cuprate. The sudden drop in the
number of unscreened spins upon cooling through ≈ 92 K reflects the
onset of diamagnetic shielding of the Cu paramagnetic spins by the
regions of superconducting PrBa₂Cu₃O₇ (Meissner effect).

ideal crystal structure) superconducts at ≈ 92 K, and that the
superconductivity is inhomogeneous and disappears with deoxygenation. In
addition, they suggest that schemes which minimize the amount of Pr on
Ba sites favor the formation of superconductivity, and that different
substrate temperatures affect the superconductivity, possibly by
controlling the oc-cupancy of Ba sites by magnetic rare-earth ions. All
of these notions fit the general picture of the oxygen model. [9, 10]

We are grateful to the U.S. Office of Naval Research and the U.S.
Department of Energy for their financial support of this work (Contract
Nos. N00014-94-10147, and DE-FG02-90ER45427), and to D. Pulling for
technical support. We thank Drew Evans and A. V. Li Fatou and also S. M.
Hues for providing the SIMS analyses.

## References

* [1] A. A. Abrikosov and L. P. Gor’kov, Zh. Eksp. Teor. Fiz. **39**,
1781 (1960) [Sov. Phys. JETP **12**, 1243 (1961)]. * [2] A. Kebede _et
al._, Phys. Rev. B **40**, 4453 (1989). * [3] S. K. Malik _et al._,
Phys. Rev. B **44**, 7042 (1991). * [4] L. Soderholm _et al._, Phys.
Rev. B **43**, 7923 (1991). * [5] G. Cao _et al._, Physica B
**186-188**, 1004 (1993). * [6] A. P. Reyes _et al._, Phys. Rev. B
**42**, 2688 (1990). * [7] V. N. Narozhnyi _et al._ (unpublished). * [8]
H. A. Blackstead and J. D. Dow, Solid State Commun. **96**, 313
(1995). * [9] H. A. Blackstead and J. D. Dow, Pis’ma Zh. Eksp. Teor.
Fiz. **59**, 262 (1994) [JETP Lett. **59**, 283 (1994)]. * [10] H. A.
Blackstead and J. D. Dow, Phys. Rev. B **51**, 11 830 (1995). * [11] H.
A. Blackstead and J. D. Dow, in _Proceedings of the Second International
Symposium on Quantum Confinement Physics and Applications_, edited by M.
Cahay _et al._ (The Electrochemical Society, Pennington, NJ, 1994), Vol.
94-17, pp. 408-418, 419-427; Superlattices Microstruct. **14**, 231
(1993); Phys. Lett. A **206**, 107 (1995); Superlattices Microstruct.
**17**, 473 (1995); H. A. Blackstead, J. D. Dow, W. E. Packard, and D.
B. Pulling, Physica C **235-240**, 1363 (1994). * [12] H. A. Blackstead
and J. D. Dow, Solid State Commun. **95**, 613 (1995). * [13] B.
Matthias (private communication). * [14] See, for example, the
cuprate-plane theories of F. C. Zhang and T. M. Rice, Phys. Rev. B
**57**, 3759 (1988), and R. Fehrenbacher and T. M. Rice, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **70**, 3471 (1993), and references therein, as well as the
predictions by M. B. Maple _et al._, J. Less Common Met. **149**, 405
(1989), and C. K. Lowe-Ma and T. A. Vanderah, Physica C **210**, 233
(1992). These ideas were tested experimentally by C. C. Kim _et al._,
Phys. Rev. B **48**, 6431 (1993). * [15] For critical review of
cuprate-plane theories, see H. A. Blackstead and J. D. Dow, Proc. SPIE
**2397**, 617 (1995); J. Phys. Chem. Solids **56**, 1697 (1995); Philos.
Mag. B **72**, 529 (1995); **73**, 223 (1996). * [16] P. Karen _et al._,
Acta Chem. Scand. **44**, 994 (1990). * [17] C. Infante _et al._,
Physica C **167**, 640 (1990). * [18] J. J. Neumeier _et al._, Physica C
**166**, 191 (1990); see also J. J. Neumeier _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**63**, 2516 (1989). * [19] Z. P. Han _et al._, Physica C **181**, 355
(1991). * [20] C.-k. Chen _et al._, Physica C **214**, 231 (1993). *
[21] A. T. Boothroyd _et al._, Physica C **217**, 425 (1993). * [22] S.
Tsurumi _et al._, Jpn. J. Appl. Phys. **26**, L1865 (1987). * [23] H.
Akinaga _et al._, Jpn. J. Appl. Phys. **27**, L610 (1988). * [24] L.
Soderholm _et al._, Physica C **161**, 252 (1989). * [25] P. R. Slater
and C. Greaves, Supercond. Sci. Technol. **5**, 205 (1992). * [26] K.
Takita _et al._, Physica C **191**, 509 (1992). * [27] M. J. Kramer _et
al._, Physica C **219**, 145 (1994). * [28] Y. Zanoun _et al._, Solid
State Commun. **93**, 71 (1995). * [29] Y. Zanoun _et al._, Mater. Chem.
Phys. **32**, 183 (1992). * [30] We estimate ξ_(a)-ξ_(b)∼ 12 A , and
ξ_(c)-3 A from tabulated values for YBa₂Cu₃O₇: M. B. Salamon, in
_Physical Properties of High Temperature Superconductors I_, edited by
D. M. Ginsberg (World Scientific, Singapore, 1989), p. 39 _et seq._,
especially p. 46. * [31] See, for example, _Pulsed Laser Deposition of
Thin Films_, edited by D. B. Chrisey and G. K. Hubler (Wiley, New York,
1994). * [32] See, for example, C. Kittel, _Introduction to Solid State
Physics_ (Wiley, New York, 1967), p. 503. * [33] W. B. Yelon (private
communication). * [34] H. Ledbetter and M. Lei, Physica C **166**, 483
(1990). * [35] N. Koshida and K. Saito, Jpn. J. Appl. Phys. **29**,
L1635 (1990); G. Rietveld _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **69**, 2578
(1992). * [36] Y. Tokura, J. B. Torrance, T. C. Huang, and A. I. Nazzal,
Phys. Rev. B **38**, 7156 (1988). * [37] D. Briggs and M. M. Seah,
_Practical Surface Analysis by Auger and X-ray Photoelectron
Spectroscopy_ (Wiley, Chichester, 1990), p. 12. * [38] One sample was
measured by A. V. Li Fatou of Charles Evans and Associates, and the
other by S. M. Hues of the Naval Research Laboratory. We thank them for
their analyses. * [39] The only detected elements or oxides in the mass
range from 80 to 100 and 130 to 190 nm were Ba⁺¹, Pr⁺¹, their oxides,
and traces of Y⁺¹ (4×10⁻³) and Sr⁺¹ (6×10⁻⁴). Cu⁺¹ was also observed.
Ce⁺¹, Nd⁺¹, Pm⁺¹, Sm⁺¹, Gd⁺¹, Tb⁺¹, Ho⁺¹, Er⁺¹, and Yb⁺¹ ions were all
well below the 10⁻⁴ level. Eu⁺¹, Tm⁺¹, and Lu⁺¹ may conceivably have
been hidden by host oxides, but this is unlikely since no EuO⁺¹, TmO⁺¹,
or LuO⁺¹ was observed. Furthermore, no peaks were observed that are
characteristic of their isotopic abundances. * [40] R. F. Jardim _et
al._, Phys. Rev. B **50**, 10 080 (1994), discuss the Meissner effect in
granular superconductors. * [41] The observation that about half of the
spins disappear from the ESR signal with the onset of granular
superconductivity is consistent with the estimate: supercurrents (of
order the critical current for the grains) associate with ∼ 7 * [42] D.
P. Norton _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **66**, 1537 (1991). * [43] The
ionic radii of Ba⁺², Ca⁺², and Pr⁺³ are 1.42, 1.12, and 1.13 A ,
respectively. The ionic radius of O⁻² is 1.40 A , and the atomic radius
of neutral oxygen is 0.65 A. See H. T. Evans, Jr., _Ionic radii in
crystals_, in Chemical Rubber Company Handbook, 74th ed., edited by D.
R. Lide (Chemical Rubber Publishing Company, Bombay, 1993-1994); the O⁻²
is sixfold-coordinated; and _Table of Periodic Properties of the
Elements_ (Sargent-Welch Scientific Company, Skokie, Illinois, 1980).
