# Superconducting and magnetic properties of the heavy-fermion compounds
UT2Al3 (_T_ = Ni,Pd)

Y. Dalichaouch, M. C. de Andrade, and M. B. Maple

Department of Physics and Institute for Pure and Applied Physical
Sciences,

University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, California 92093

###### Abstract

The resistive upper critical field _H_c2 as a function of temperature T
has been determined for polycrystalline specimens of the isostructural
antiferromagnetic heavy-fermion superconductors UT2Al3 (_T_ = Ni, Pd).
The zero-temperature superconducting coherence lengths g0 = 190 A (77 A)
for T = Ni (Pd) have been estimated from the initial slope of
_H_c2(_T_), and analyses of previously reported specific-heat data yield
an effective mass enhancement m * / m   40 (49) for T = Ni (Pd), where m
is the free-electron mass. High-precision measurements of the
normal-state electrical resistivity reveal a broad anomaly below 4.6 K
in UNi2Al3, which correlates with the onset of U-moment
antiferromagnetic ordering. In UPd2Al3, the large electrical resistivity
drop between _Tc_ and T _N_ = 15 K can be accurately described by an
expression that is appropriate for an antiferromagnet with an energy gap
D   40 K and an additional T2 term reflecting Fermi-liquid behavior.

Perhaps the most significant recent developments in heavy-fermion (HF)
superconductors have been the discovery of antiferromagnetic (AFM)
ordering with very small U moments (0.01_m_b_-0.1_m_b_) in compounds
previously thought to be nonmagnetic and the delineation of complex and
multicomponent superconducting phase diagrams.1 In all cases, except
perhaps UBe13, superconductivity coexists with AFM ordering at low
temperatures, and it is believed that the interaction between the
superconducting and magnetic order parameters can lead to additional
symmetry breakdown and further transitions inside the superconducting
state in unconventional superconductors.

Heavy-fermion superconductivity has recently been reported in two new
U-based compounds: UNi2Al3 (Ref. 2) and UPd2Al3 (Ref. 3), which exhibit
AFM transitions at T = 4.6 K and T = 14 K followed by transitions to
superconducting states at _T_c = 1 K and _Tc   2 K, respectively.
According to neutron-scattering experiments,4 the ordered magnetic
moment in UPd2Al3 lies in the basal plane and is about
(0.85+-0.03)_m_b_/U atom, whereas no long-range magnetic order could be
detected above 1.5 K in UNi2Al3. However, zero-field muon
spin-relaxation experiments revealed a commensurate AF structure in the
latter compound5 in which the U moments, assumed to be along the c axis,
are of the order of 0.1_m_b_/U atom and a much smaller ordered moment  
0.01-0.1_m_b_/U atom in UPd2Al3.6 The normal-state electrical
resistivity _r_(_T_) of UNi2Al3 is reminiscent of that of UPt3 in that r
increases monotonically with increasing temperature and has substantial
negative curvature.7 On the other hand, the _r_(_T_) curve of UPd2Al3
resembles that of URu2Si2 with r first increasing with increasing
temperature, passing through a maximum around 80 K, and decreasing with
further increase in T.8 While specific heat and magnetic susceptibility
measurements were reported to exhibit anomalies at _T_N in both
compounds, the _r_(_T_) data showed a kink only in UPd2Al3, and no
feature was observed in UNi2Al3-2.3 In this paper, we report resistive
measurements of the upper critical field _H_c2 as a function of
temperature and high-precision measurements of the low-temperature
normal-state resistivity with particular attention on the
antiferromagnetic transitions in UT2Al3 (_T_ = Ni and Pd) compounds.

The polycrystalline specimens of UT2Al3 (_T_ = Ni,Pd) were prepared by
arc melting in an argon atmosphere and were then vacuum annealed for
either 8 days at 900degC (_T_ = Pd) or 12 days at 1000degC (_T_ = Ni).
X-ray diffraction patterns were indexed to the hexagonal PrNi2Al3-type
crystal structure with the space group P6/_mmm_ and lattice parameters a
= 5,217 A and c = 4.024 A for UNi2Al3 and a = 5.419 A and c = 4.052 A
for UPd2Al3. The electrical resistivity was measured in a "He-"He
dilution refrigerator using an LR 201 four-lead ac nano-ohmmeter
operating at 16 Hz and a measuring current density of   8 mA/cm2. The
applied magnetic field was produced using a superconducting solenoid,
and the superconducting critical temperature _Tc_ was defined as the
temperature at which the resistivity decreases to 50

Zero-field electrical resistivity r vs temperature T data between 1 and
10 K for UNi2Al3 are displayed in Fig. 1. In contrast to the data
reported in Ref. 2 in which _r_(_T_) is linear down to _Tc_, Fig. 1
reveals a broad shoulder in _r_(_T_) in the vicinity of _T_N followed by
a transition to the superconducting state at _Tc_   1 K. The value of
_T_N_   4.6 K, defined as the temperature corresponding to the minimum
in the _d_r_/_dT_ vs T curve shown in the inset of Fig. 1, is in
excellent agreement with the Neel temperature of the U moments estimated
from specific heat and magnetization measurements.2

Shown in Fig. 2 are r vs T data for UPd2Al3 below 25 K. There is an
abrupt and large decrease in _r_(_T_) at T _N_   15 K due to the onset
of U long-range antiferromagnetic order followed by a transition to the
superconducting state at _Tc_   2 K. An excellent fit to the data
between 2 and 15 K can be achieved using the sum of an expression
appropriate for an antiferromagnet with an energy gap [9] and a T² term
reflecting Fermi-liquid behavior,

ρ = ρ₀ + bT[1 + 2T/Δ]exp (−Δ/T) + cT² .
(1)

The parameters ρ₀ = 1μΩ cm, b = 24μΩ cm/K, Δ = 40 K, and c = 0.23μΩ
cm/K² were obtained from the fit. It is interesting to note that even
though ρ(T) in URu₂Si₂ is also described by Eq. (1), a narrow peak
associated with the spin-density-wave transition develops in the
vicinity of T_(N) = 17.5 K in URu₂Si₂ but is absent in UPd₂Al₃. The
increase of ρ with decreasing T around T_(N) was first recognized in Cr
as being due to the formation of an energy gap on the Fermi surface,
which decreases the effective number of carriers [10]. A possible reason
for the absence of a peak at T_(N) in UPd₂Al₃ could be the combined
effects of the larger c parameter and the greater fraction of ungapped
electron states [11] than in URu₂Si₂. In contrast to UPd₂Al₃, the ρ(T)
magnetic anomaly is considerably smaller and smeared out in UNi₂Al₃. A
plot of dρ/dT vs T, shown in the inset of Fig. 1, reveals a T dependence
reminiscent of URu₂Si₂ in that ρ first decreases rapidly upon lowering T
from above T_(N), then less quickly as T → T_(N), and finally decreases
rapidly again with decreasing T below T_(N). There is a small change in
the electronic specific-heat coefficient γ from 150 to 120 mJ/mol K² in
UNi₂Al₃ as T is cooled through T_(N)[2]. The reason for the small size
of the magnetic anomaly in UNi₂Al₃ is not yet understood. However, it is
well known that no feature at all has been seen at T_(N) ≈ 5 K in
transport and bulk properties of the HF superconductor UPt₃, even though
neutron-diffraction measurements show an ordered moment of
(0.02 ± 0.01)μ_(B)/U atom [12].

Representative resistive superconducting transition curves for applied
fields up to 32 kOe are displayed in Figs. 3(a) and 4(a) for UNi₂Al₃ and
UPd₂Al₃, respectively. The ρ value of the UPd₂Al₃ sample used for these
measurements is one order of magnitude larger than that of the piece
used for the normal-state resistivity, even

Figure 3: (a) **Reasitive superconducting transition curves for
UNi₂Al₃** in various applied magnetic fields up to 10 kOe and (b) upper
critical field H_(c2) vs temperature T determined from ρ(T, H) data for
UNi₂Al₃. The solid line is a fit to the data that was calculated from
the WHHM theory assuming only orbital pair breaking. The spin-orbit
scattering parameter $\lambda_{\rm so}$ consistent with this absence of
paramagnetic limitation is also shown in the figure.

Figure 2: Low-temperature electrical resistivity vs temperature T of
UPd₂Al₃ in zero applied magnetic field. The solid line represents a fit
of the equation ρ = ρ₀ + bT[1 + 2T/Δ]exp (−Δ/T) + cT² to the data with
parameters ρ₀, b, Δ, and c that are given in the text.

though both pieces were cut from the same ingot. This discrepancy is
likely due to macroscopic cracks present in the sample, which can be
seen under the microscope. The upper critical field H_(c2)(T) curves
extracted from the ρ(T, H) data are shown in Figs. 3(b) and 4(b).

The initial slopes of the H_(c2) vs T curves have the values
(−dH_(c2)/dT)_(T_(c)) = 13 kOe/K for T = Ni and 43 kOe/K for T = Pd,
which can be used to estimate ξ₀ the superconducting coherence length at
T = 0 K. The zero-temperature orbital critical magnetic field
H_(c2)^(•)(0) can be determined from the weak-coupling formula [15]

H_(c2)^(•)(0) = 0.693[(−dH_(c2)/dT)_(T_(c))]T_(c) ,
(2)

which gives H_(c2)^(•)(0) ∼ 9.1 kOe for UNi₂Al₃ (T_(c) = 1.02 K) and
 ∼ 57.5 kOe for UPd₂Al₃ (T_(c) = 1.93 K). These values can then be used
to calculate the Ginzburg-Landau coherence lengths using the following
expression:

$$H_{c2}^{\bullet}(0) = \frac{\Phi_{0}}{2\pi\xi_{0}^{2}}\ ,$$
(3)

where Φ₀ = _hc_ /_2e_ = 2.07 x 10-7 Oe cm2 is the flux quantum. The
calculations give ξ₀ = 190 A for T = Ni and ξ₀ = 77 A for T = Pd.

The paramagnetic limiting field at T = 0 K, H_(p0) in the absence of
spin-orbit scattering, is given by

H_(p0)(0) = 18.4T_(c) (kOe)
(4)

which yields H_(p0) = 18.7 kOe for T = Ni and H_(p0) = 35.5 kOe for T =
Pd. It is interesting to note that H_(c2)(0) ≈ H_(c2)^(•)(0) for
UNi₂Al₃, whereas H_(c2)(0) ≈ H_(p0) for UPd₂Al₃.

The coherence length can also be obtained from the BCS equation [14]

$$\xi_{0} = 0.18\frac{\pi w_{F}}{k_{B}T_{c}}\ .$$
(5)

However, it is necessary to estimate the Fermi velocity
v_(F) = ℏk_(F)/m^(•), where k_(F) is the Fermi wave vector. Assuming a
spherical Fermi surface, k_(F) = (3π²Z/Ω)^(1/3), where Z is the number
of conduction electrons per unit cell and Ω is the unit-cell volume. As
a rough approximation, we assume that there are three 5f electrons
contributed by each U atom so that Z = 3, since there is one formula
unit per unit cell. From the hexagonal lattice parameters determined
from x-ray measurements, we find Ω = 9.5 × 10⁻²³ cm³ for UNi₂Al₃ and
Ω = 10.29 × 10⁻²³ cm³ for UPd₂Al₃. We then obtain k_(F) = 9.78 × 10⁷
cm⁻¹ and 9.52 × 10⁷ cm⁻¹, respectively. The effective mass can be
deduced from the relation

$$m^{\bullet} = \frac{\pi^{2}k_{F}^{2}}{\pi^{2}(Z/\Omega)k_{B}^{2}}\ ,$$
(6)

which gives m^(•) = 41m_(•) for T = Ni and m^(•) = 49m_(•) for T = Pd
T_(N) = 14 K in UPd₂Al₃ appears to involve a gap Δ ≈ 40 K opening over
∼ 30% of the Fermi surface. The AFM ordering anomaly at T_(N) = 4.6 K in
UNi₂Al₃ is smeared out and is less pronounced than in UPd₂Al₃.

The research was supported by the U.S. National Science Foundation under
Grant No. DMR 91-07698. M.C.A. gratefully acknowledges support from the
CNPq, Brazil.

## References

* [1] For a recent review, see M. Sigrist and K. Ueda, Rev. Mod. Phys.
**63**, 239 (1991). * [2] C. Giebel, S. Thies, D. Kaczorowski, A.
Mehner, A. Grauel, B. Seidel, U. Ahleinen, R. Helfrich, K. Peterson,
C.D. Bredl, and F. Steglich, Z. Phys. B **83**, 305 (1991). * [3] C.
Geibel, C. Schank, S. Thies, H. Kitazawa, C. D. Bredl, A. Bohm, M. Rau,
A. Grauel, R. Caspary, R. Helfrich, U. Ahlheim, G. Weber, and F.
Steglich, Z. Phys. B **84**, 1 (1991). * [4] A. Krimmel, P. Fischer, B.
Roessli, H. Maletta, C. Geibel, C. Schank, A. Grauel, A. Loidl, and F.
Steglich, Z. Phys. B **86**, 161 (1992). * [5] A. Amato, C. Geibel, F.
N. Gygax, R. H. Heffner, E. Knetsch, D. E. MacLaughlin, C. Schank, A.
Schenk, F. Steglich, and M. Weber, Z. Phys. B **86**, 159 (1992). * [6]
Y. J. Uemura (private communication). * [7] G. R. Stewart, Z. Fisk, J.
O. Willis, and J. L. Smith, Phys. Rev. Lett. **52**, 679 (1984). * [8]
M. B. Maple, J. W. Chen, Y. Dalichaouch, T. Kohara, C. Rossel, M. S.
Torikachvili, M. W. McElfresh, and J. D. Thompson, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**56**, 185 (1986). * [9] N. H.Andersen, in _Crystalline Electric Field
and Structural Effects in f-electron Systems_, edited by J. E. Crow, R.
P. Guertin, and T. W. Mihalisin (Plenum, New York, 1980), p. 373. * [10]
A. L. Trego and A. R. Mackintosh, Phys. Rev. **166**, 495 (1968). * [11]
From the ratio of γ = 210 mJ/mol K² above T_(N) to the low temperature
γ = 150 mJ/mol K² above T_(c) (Ref. 3), we estimate that the gap opens
over ∼ 30% of the Fermi surface in UPd₂Al₃. * [12] G. Aeppli, E. Bucher,
C. Broholm, J. Kjems, J. Baumann, and J. Hufnagel, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**60**, 615 (1988). * [13] R. R. Hake, Appl. Phys. Lett. **10**, 186
(1967). * [14] See, for example, M. Tinkham, _Introduction to
Superconductivity_ (McGraw-Hill, New York, 1975). * [15] N. R.
Werthamer, E. Helfand, and P. C. Hohenberg, Phys. Rev. **147**, 295
(1966); K. Maki, _ibid._**148**, 392 (1966). * [16] G. Stewart, Z. Fisk,
J. O. Willis, and J. L. Smith, Phys. Rev. Lett. **52**, 679 (1984); F.
Steglich, in _Theory of Heavy Fermion and Valence Fluctuations_, edited
by T. Kasuya and T. Saso (Springer-Verlag, New York, 1985), p. 23. *
[17] F. Steglich, C. D. Bredl, W. Lieke, U. Rauchschwalbe, and G. Sparn,
Physica B **126**, 82 (1984).
