# Doping-induced superconductivity of ZrB₂ and HfB₂

N. Barbero

1Laboratorium fur Festkorperphysik, ETH Zurich, CH-8093, Zurich,
Switzerland

T. Shiroka

2Paul Scherrer Institut, CH-5232, Villigen Paul Scherrer Institute,
Switzerland

B. Delley

3Escola de Engenharia de Lorena, Universidade de Sao Paulo, P.O. Box
116, Lorena, Sao Paolo, Brazil

T. Grant

4Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of California at
Irvine, California 92697, USA

A. J. S. Machado

2Escola de Engenharia de Lorena, Universidade de Sao Paulo, P.O. Box
116, Lorena, Sao Paolo, Brazil

Z. Fisk

4Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of California at
Irvine, California 92697, USA

H.-R. Ott

1Laboratorium fur Festkorperphysik, ETH Zurich, CH-8093, Zurich,
Switzerland Paul Scherrer Institut, CH-5232, Villigen Paul Scherrer
Institute, Switzerland

J. Mesot

1Laboratorium fur Festkorperphysik, ETH Zurich, CH-8093, Zurich,
Switzerland Paul Scherrer Institut, CH-5232, Villigen Paul Scherrer
Institute, Switzerland

Footnote 1: Corresponding author: barbero@phys.ethz.ch

Received 19 December 2016; revised manuscript received 14 February 2017;
published 8 March 2017

###### Abstract

Unlike the widely studied _s_-type two-gap superconductor MgB₂, the
chemically similar compounds ZrB₂ and HfB₂ do not superconduct above 1
K. Yet it has been shown that small amounts of self or extrinsic doping
(in particular with vanadium), can induce superconductivity in these
materials. Based on results of different macroscopic and microscopic
measurements, including magnetometry, nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR),
resistivity, and muon-spin rotation (μ⁺SR), we present a comparative
study of Zr_(0.96)V_(0.08)B₂ and Hf_(0.97)V_(0.03)B₂. Their key magnetic
and superconducting features are determined and the results are
considered within the theoretical framework of multiband
superconductivity proposed for MgB₂. Detailed Fermi surface (FS) and
electronic structure calculations reveal the difference between MgB₂ and
transition-metal diborides.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.094505

## 1 Introduction

Borides, carbides, and nitrides were among the early compound
superconductors discovered in the first half of the previous century [1]
(see, e.g., Ref. [2] for a recent review). However, it was only in 2001,
with the discovery of superconductivity in MgB₂ at 39 K [3], that
researchers intensified the search for superconductivity in other
diborides. Based on a large number of studies, MgB₂ was identified as a
two-band two-gap superconductor. Its peculiar Fermi surface exhibits
two-dimensional hole-like cylinders from the p_(x, y) bands, a hole-like
tubular network due to the bonding p_(z) bands, and an electron-like
tubular network due to the antibonding p_(z) bands [4]. Due to this
electronic configuration and to a distinct anisotropy of the
electron-phonon interaction strength, the electronic excitation spectrum
of MgB₂ adopts two gaps in the superconducting phase: a large gap of 7.2
meV in the p_(x, y) (σ) bands, and a small gap of 2.8 meV in the bonding
and antibonding p_(z) (π) bands. At the same time, an upper critical
field anisotropy has been observed, with μ₀H_(c2)1∼ 30 T and μ₀H_(c2)2∼
3 T at zero temperature [5].

Footnote 1: μ₀H_(c2)∼ 30 T and μ₀H_(c2)∼ 3 T at zero temperature [5].

Besides alkaline-earth metals (such as Mg), diborides of other elements
have been proposed to be checked for superconductivity. Because of the
presence of partially filled 3d, 4d, and 5d orbitals, considered as
promising for superconductivity, these new attempts involved icosagens
(Al) and various _d_-type transition metals (T). The second of these
(TB₂), which are claimed to combine average coupling constants with
comparable phonon frequencies to MgB₂[6] (due to the presence of light
boron atoms), were the natural candidates in this search. Unfortunately,
these renewed efforts proved unsuccessful and to date there are no
reports of superconductivity for the majority of TB₂ materials.

ZrB₂ and HfB₂ are two such nonsuperconducting refractory materials with
melting points of ∼3000 K, behaving essentially as Pauli paramagnets
down to low temperatures. The electrons in the 4d shell of zirconium
(Zr) and those in the 5d shell of hafnium (Hf) are less localized than
those of the 3d row. In a recent study [7] it was found that by
replacing small amounts of Zr or Hf with V, the resulting compounds
Zr_(1 − x)V_(x)B₂ and Hf_(1 − x)V_(x)B₂ are superconductors. Maximum
superconducting temperatures T_(c) = 8.33 K and 7.31 K were reached in
Zr_(0.96)V_(0.04)B₂ and Hf_(0.97)V_(0.03)B₂, respectively, at the upper
solubility limit of V (x≈ 0.04). X-ray powder diffraction (XRD) patterns
[7] indicate that an increase in V doping does not change the in-plane
lattice parameter a, while it reduces the interlayer distance c. At the
same time, it has been shown that the structural and electronic
properties of these compounds are influenced by the presence of B
vacancies [8].

In Ref. [7], the properties of superconducting Zr_(0.96)V_(0.04)B₂ were
investigated by means of macroscopic techniques [7]. In this work we
aimed at combining macroscopic and microscopic techniques (including
magnetometry, NMR, resistivity, and preliminary μ⁺SR experiments) on
Zr-based diborides and extend our study to include the Hf-based
compound. Since we succeeded in synthesizing samples with less magnetic
impurities (below 10 ppm) with respect to the previous ones [7],
whenever relevant, a comparison between the two batches is included. Our
extensive data sets allowed us to unravel clear analogies and
differences between the T-diborides Zr_(0.96)V_(0.04)B₂ and
Hf_(0.97)V_(0.03)B₂ and the well-known MgB₂. In Sec. IV.1 we show that
spin-lattice relaxation processes in T-diborides are two orders of
magnitude slower that in MgB₂, indicating significantly different
electronic structures. Combined magnetometry (Sec. IV.2) and resistivity
(Sec. IV.3) measurements were performed to evaluate the upper and lower
critical fields, respectively. These compounds prove to be extreme
type-II superconductors, as reflected by the high values (∼100) of the
Ginzburg-Landau $\kappa=\nicefrac{{1}}{{6}}$ parameter. The London
penetration depth λ was evaluated through μ⁺SR (Sec. IV.4) experiments
and the coherence length ξ via upper critical field measurements (Sec.
IV.3). Thanks to the complementarity of the used techniques, we argue
that, besides the qualitatively different Fermi surfaces of MgB₂ and
transition-metal diborides, in both cases we are dealing with _s_-wave
superconductors. While the rather high T_(c) of MgB₂ is understood as a
consequence of a favorable electronic structure and electron-phonon
interaction, the drastic effect of V-doping in the T-diborides is still
rather surprising.

## II Electronic structures of ZrB₂ and HfB₂

Both pure and V-doped compounds crystallize in the layered AlB₂
structure with a P6/mmm hexagonal space group, where the Zr (or Hf)
atoms and the B atoms occupy, respectively, the 1α (0,0,0) and 2d (1/3,
2/3, 1/2) positions. As in MgB₂, their crystal lattices are
characterized by hexagonal metal layers alternating with graphite-like B
layers (see Fig. 1).

Previous results of band-structure calculations [9, 10] and Fermi
surface (FS) representations [9] are available in the literature for
both ZrB₂ and HfB₂. Since, however, the published FS of ZrB₂ suffers
from low quality, we chose to present the result of our own calculation
in Fig. 2, intended to serve as a comparison to the published FS in
MgB₂[11], well known for its amazingly high critical temperature T_(c)
of the order of 40 K for the onset of superconductivity. Our
density-functional calculations use a linear-density approximations
(LDA) approach [12] based on the DMol³ band-structure modeling program
[13, 14]. The self-consistent field (SCF) was accomplished using the
standard double-numeric plus polarization (DNP) [13] variational basis
set and a Γ-centered 12 × 12 × 12 k mesh in the reciprocal cell.
Pseudized scalar relativistic corrections [15] were applied. The
calculations are based on the experimental geometries published in Ref.
[16]. The FS plot was generated using the xcchysden program [17] based
on the DMol³ output for a 99 × 99 × 99 k mesh.

The ZrB₂ FS consists of four short cylindrical hole-type pockets around
the A point and four tripod-shaped electron-type pockets, each
consisting of a triangular ring around the K point and three elliptic
extensions near the ΓAH plane. Since the FS of HfB₂ exhibits essentially
the same features, we refrained from presenting it in a separate figure.
These features are quite different from those of the FS of MgB₂. Most
obvious is the reduction of the two almost two-dimensional hole sheets
centered near the A point for MgB₂ to one much smaller and
three-dimensional (3D) type pocket for Zr- and Hf-diboride. Likewise the
3D parts are quite different in shape for MgB₂. It is therefore not
surprising that the two borides investigated here are less favorably
conditioned for superconductivity than MgB₂ and indeed for both pure
compounds, no superconductivity was detected above 1 K. The
band-structure calculations for the T-borides considered here indicate
that in both cases the density of electronic states at the Fermi energy
$N(E_{\rm F})$ is located in a region where N(E) exhibits a pseudogap,
i.e., is much reduced. It is thus remarkable that a very small (4-5

## III Experimental details

Polycrystals of ZrB₂, HfB₂, Zr_(0.96)V_(0.04)B₂, and Hf_(0.97)V_(0.03)B₂
were synthesized via boron carbide reduction and structurally
characterized as described in Ref. [7]. For our magnetic measurements,
samples in form of fine powders, with masses between 50 and 100 mg, were
sealed in Teflon (PTFE) tubes. The NMR investigations including
line-shape and spin-lattice relaxation measurements were performed in an
applied magnetic field of 3.505 T since higher fields reduce the
possibility to resolve the quadrupolar effects. In our case, the ¹¹B
nucleus (spin $I=\nicefrac{{3}}{{2}}$) proved to be the most suitable
one since it allows a direct comparison between the four samples and it
is four times more abundant than ¹⁰B. The NMR signals were monitored by
means of standard spin-echo sequences, consisting in π/2 and π pulses of
2 and 4 μs, respectively, with recycle delays ranging from 10 to 100 s,
for temperatures ranging from 4 to 295 K. The NMR lineshapes were
obtained via the fast Fourier Transform (FFT) of the echo signal which,
due to the high sensitivity of ¹¹B, could be acquired using relatively
few scans (from 4 to 2048). The spin-lattice relaxation times T₁ were
measured with the inversion recovery method, using a π − π/2 − π pulse
sequence. The magnetometry measurements were performed using a
commercial Magnetic Property Measurement System (MPMS XL) from Quantum
Design, equipped with a 7-T magnet and covering the temperature range
from 2 to 400 K. For the resistivity measurements, the samples were
densely packed in cylindrical pellets with a diameter of 1.4 mm and a
thickness of 5 mm, produced by applying high external pressures. The
electrical contacts with a four-probe configuration were made by means
of an electrically conducting silver epoxy.

Figure 1: AlB₂ structure of the transition-metal diborides highlighting
the graphene-like B layers (magenta atoms) and the hexagonal metal
layers (blue atoms).

Figure 2: Fermi surface of ZrB₂.

Preliminary μ⁺SR measurements were made at the GPS spectrometer of the
SμS facility of Paul Scherrer Institute (PSI) in Villigen, Switzerland.
The available sample mass (300 mg) was sufficient to stop the 4-MeV
muons without additional degraders and with a minimal background signal.
To avoid pinning effects, well known for distorting the vortex lattice
(VL) in the superconducting phase of MgB₂[18], the transverse-field (TF)
muon-spin rotation measurements were made at the highest field available
(0.6 T).

## IV Experimental results and discussion

### Nuclear magnetic resonance

The ¹¹B NMR lines of all the samples (both pure and V-doped) were
measured from 5 to 295 K; typical data are shown in Fig. 3. The
reference ¹¹B NMR frequency in an applied magnetic field of 3.505 T was
evaluated to be v₀ = 47.8844 MHz. In our case, the NMR lines exhibit
peaks which are very close to the reference, with an absolute positive
shift of only about 6 kHz, corresponding to a Knight shift of 120 ppm.
In the covered temperature range between 5 and 295 K the ¹¹B NMR lines
practically coincide (see Fig. 3), implying temperature-independent
Knight shifts for all the measured samples, compatible with the χ(T)
plateaux observed in the magnetometry data, measured under zero-field
cooled conditions (see Fig. 4). The trend of the Knight shift in the
superconducting phase could not be resolved because of the appreciable
width of the resonance signal. As the line position, also the full width
at half maximum (FWHM) is practically constant upon varying the
temperature. For the Zr-based samples its value is 13 kHz (with 1 kHz of
additional broadening below T_(c)), while for those containing Hf the
width is 14 kHz (+1 kHz at low temperatures). The typical quadrupole
splitting v_(Q) in ZrB₂ and HfB₂ is approximately the same, i.e., 54
kHz. This relatively small value implies a rather small electric-field
gradient (EFG), especially if compared with MgB₂, for which v_(Q) ≃ 860
kHz [19], which is a signature of a different electronic charge
distribution, confirmed by the different orbitals involved in the bonds,
i.e., only s and p orbitals for MgB₂ and also d orbitals for T-borides.

For typical powder spectra of a $I=\nicefrac{{3}}{{2}}$ nucleus with a
small quadrupole splitting, an analytical expression for the lineshape
can be derived by considering the quadrupole term as a first-order
perturbation in the main Zeeman Hamiltonian [20, 21]. As shown in Fig.
3, the experimental spectrum and the simulated lineshape (dashed line)
for ZrB₂ agree quite well. The simulation of the powder spectrum,
employing a matlab code, performs the integration according to Euler’s
method over all the possible orientations of the NMR lineshape factor
F[20], i.e., the integration of the transition frequencies, derived from
the quadrupolar theory and weighted using a Gaussian broadening function
[22, 23]. From a quantitative analysis, the electric-field gradient
(EFG) tensor can be evaluated using

$$eq=\frac{2I(2I-1)\,hv_{Q}}{3eQ},$$
(1)

with eq the largest EFG component (parallel to the applied magnetic
field), I the nuclear spin, and Q the quadrupole moment of the nucleus.
By considering the hexagonal symmetry of the AlB₂ structure, we can
assume that the in-plane anisotropy parameter
η = (V_(xx) − V_(yy))/V_(zz) = 0 and, therefore, V_(xx) = V_(yy). Since
the V_(i, j) tensor is traceless, by evaluating eq = V_(zz) from the
simulated v_(Q) data [see Eq. (1)], we get V_(zz) = 1.1 × 10²⁰ Vm⁻² and
V_(xx) = V_(yy) = −5.5 × 10¹⁹ Vm⁻².

Figure 3: ¹¹B NMR lines in the four TB₂ compounds, respectively. From
bottom to top: ZrB₂, Zr_(0.96)V_(0.04)B₂, HfB₂, and Hf_(0.97)V_(0.03)B₂.
The measurements were performed at 3.505 T and for each sample the lines
measured at 5 and at 295 K are superposed, showing no relevant change.
The dashed black line superposed on the ZrB₂ spectra represents a
simulation of a $S=\nicefrac{{3}}{{2}}$ powder pattern with small
quadrupole splitting (reflected by the two shoulders around the central
transition).

As summarized in Table 1, the Knight shift values are of the same order
of magnitude as in MgB₂[19; 24; 26; 27], but we note a difference of two
orders of magnitude in the spin-lattice relaxation rates. The measured
T₁T value for MgB₂ is 1.8 × 10² sK, which, by considering its 70 ppm
Knight shift, implies an experimental Korringa constant
S₀ ≡ T₁T K² = 8.85 × 10⁻⁷ sK, approximately three times smaller than the
theoretical value
$S_{\rm th}=\hbar(\gamma_{e}/\gamma_{\rm B})^{2}/(4\pi k_{\rm B})=2.56\times 10^{-6}$
sK. Upon V doping, the very slow relaxation processes in T-diborides are
nonsignificantly altered, but nevertheless, this apparently
insignificant doping induces superconductivity at relatively high
critical temperatures. Furthermore, due to strong covalent bonds, the
largest contribution to the electronic density of states (DOS) at the
Fermi level D(E_(F)) is due to itinerant electrons in the boron layers.
With respect to AlB₂ and even more so to MgB₂, D(E_(F)) of our compounds
is drastically reduced, as clearly confirmed by the spin-lattice
relaxation data, in turn in good agreement with our theoretical
calculations on the electronic structure of ZrB₂ and HfB₂.

The raw data, i.e., ¹¹B NMR T₁ inverse saturation recovery curves, for
the temperatures above T_(c) were fitted by assuming the standard
magnetization recovery formula for a single spin-lattice relaxation time
[25]. However, due to the expected high anisotropy of μ₀H_(c2), and by
analogy with MgB₂[5], in powder samples we expect grains with different
orientations, i.e., where the applied magnetic field lies in the ab
plane or is parallel to the c axis. _A priori_ the orthogonal and
parallel magnetic susceptibilities and the upper critical field depend
on the direction of the field. The existence of nonequivalent grains,
due to the anisotropy of the upper critical field, is also confirmed by
magnetometry (Fig. 4) and resistivity (Fig. 8) measurements, which show
a superconducting width transition ΔT ∼ 2.5 K, hence suggesting the
persistence of inhomogenous domains. In a first approximation and
following a procedure employed in the MgB₂ case [24; 27], we can fit the
data, by assuming two relaxation processes [see Eq. (2)], related to the
normal phase and to the superconducting phase, respectively:

I(τ_(d)) ∝ αexp (τ_(d)/T_(1s))^(β) + (1 − α)exp (τ_(d)/T_(1n))^(β).
(2)

Here τ_(d) is the time delay in the NMR pulse sequence, T_(1s) and
T_(1n) the spin-lattice relaxation times of the superconducting and
normal grains, respectively, α the superconducting volume fraction and β
the stretching parameter (close to 1 in this case). We assume that α is
a temperature-dependent fit parameter, ranging from ∼1 (in case of
maximum superconducting fraction, as evaluated from magnetometry data),
down to 0. In the transition region the two plateaux are connected with
a sigmoidal function.

The T₁⁻¹(T) spin-lattice relaxation data above T_(c) follow the linear
behavior in T of a simple metal (see Fig. 5), where nuclear relaxation
occurs mostly via interactions with the conduction electrons. On the
other hand, below T_(c), the superconducting grains may exhibit two
trends: a power-law with an integer exponent, typical of anisotropic
superconductors, or an exponential trend, as expected for s-wave
superconductors. If the sample is not perfectly homogeneous, a second
relaxation component could persist as a linear trend associated to
normal grains, as shown in Fig. 6. The hypothesis of the two relaxation
times is justified by the good fit results that we obtain for the
evaluation of spin-lattice relaxation rates R₁ = T₁⁻¹. A quantitative
analysis is, however, hampered by a contribution to the relaxation from
the flux vortex lines (i.e., their thermal motion) [28; 29]. Since we
performed a field cooling (FC) measurement, the formation of a flux line
lattice (FLL) with a regular arrangement of vortices, most likely with
hexagonal symmetry, is expected. The geometric parameter of this lattice
is the intervortex spacing d(μ₀H) = (2Φ₀/3^(1/2)μ₀H)^(1/2), which
implies d(3.505T) = 26 nm in our case. This value is approximately six
times the diameter of the vortices ξ, as evaluated in Sec. IV.3,
implying that the measured T₁ values consist of the sum of a slow
contribution from outside the vortex cores and a faster contribution
from the normal region within the vortices [29].

We speculate that the considerable anisotropy of the upper critical
field of MgB₂[5] is also a characteristic of our materials. A rigorous
confirmation would be obtained by relevant experiments on single
crystals via, e.g., thermal conductivity measurements. In general,
s-wave superconductors exhibit an exponential decrease of T₁⁻¹(T) well
below T_(c), from which the gap value Δ can be extracted. The appearance
of a Hebel-Slichter coherence peak is usually interpreted as

Figure 5: ¹¹B NMR T₁⁻¹(T) data at 3.505 T for all the investigated
samples, compared to MgB₂ and AlB₂ data (from Ref. [24]). From a
standard fit, assuming only one spin-lattice relaxation time [25], we
obtain a linear trend, with Korringa constants as reported in Table 1.
Materials with transition metal cations, such as Zr and Hf, exhibit slow
spin-lattice relaxation processes, two orders of magnitude slower than
in MgB₂, whereas AlB₂ represents an intermediate case.

  Material               Shift (ppm)   T₁T (10⁴ s K)   S₀ (10⁻⁴ s K)
  --------------------- ------------- --------------- ---------------
  ZrB₂                       120        1.81 ± 0.07     2.60 ± 0.18
  Zr_(0.96)V_(0.08)B₂        120        1.89 ± 0.07     2.72 ± 0.11
  HfB₂                       140        1.67 ± 0.05     3.27 ± 0.12
  Hf_(0.97)V_(0.03)B₂        140        1.56 ± 0.07     3.06 ± 0.09
  AlB₂                       −10        0.14 ± 0.04    0.009 ± 0.001
  MgB₂                       70        0.018 ± 0.006   0.009 ± 0.001

Table 1: Key NMR parameters for the investigated samples compared with
those of AlB₂ and MgB₂[24].

confirming the Cooper-pairing with spherical symmetry. In our case, the
absence of a coherence peak does not rule out an s-wave parity since the
size of the peak can be significantly reduced by the pair-breaking
mechanism in the presence of high fields [30]. Due to the
above-mentioned complexity of the relaxation processes and the quality
of our data, it is impossible to extract the gap value Δ from the
exponential decrease of the spin-lattice relaxation time. In any case, a
first evidence for s-wave superconductivity is the increasing deviation
from a power-law behavior with an exponent 3 towards lower temperatures
(see Fig. 6). To justify the similarities between the phonon-mediated
s-wave superconductivity mechanism in MgB₂ and our V-doped samples we
note that vanadium, given its 3d³ orbital, has one more electron, if
compared to Zr (4d²) and Hf (5d²). An analogous electron doping is
confirmed in the case of MgB₂, where the s states of Mg are pushed up by
the boron p_(z) orbitals and, therefore, fully donate their electrons to
the boron-derived conduction band [4]. This doping mechanism occurs also
in the opposite direction (reduction of the T_(c) value) in MgB₂. In
this case, both the substitution of Mg with Li (hole doping) and of
boron with carbon or Al (electron doping) reduce the T_(c) of the
material [31]. In this case, it is claimed that the electrons fill the σ
band and holes occupy the π band, therefore making charge compensation
impossible. Furthermore, a recent paper [32] supported the hypothesis of
two gaps in Zr_(0.96)V_(0.04)B₂ from critical current density J_(c)
measurements in different fields. In fact, J_(c) can suitably be fitted
by the sum of two contributions J₁ and J₂, respectively, related to the
first and the second gap, following an exponential trend as a function
of the applied magnetic field.

### Magnetometry

Superconducting quantum interference device (SQUID) magnetometry
measurements were made on all the samples (ZrB₂, HfB₂,
Zr_(0.96)V_(0.04)B₂, and Hf_(0.97)V_(0.03)B₂). The high sensitivity
(10⁻¹⁰ Am²) of the reciprocating sample option (RSO) of the MPMS
magnetometer allowed us to detect small impurities. In particular, in
the ZrB₂ and Zr_(0.96)V_(0.04)B₂ samples a small mass fraction of about
0.5

The low-field region (from 0.2 to 6 mT), exhibits an initial linear
trend in M(H). It is possible to extract an approximate value of
μ₀H_(c1), defining it as the field at which the deviation from the
linear trend (called _Meissner line_) exceeds the sensitivity of the
instrument. Performing this analysis, for each of the M versus H curves,
we obtain μ₀H_(c1)(T), as shown in Fig. 7 for both Zr_(0.96)V_(0.04)B₂
and Hf_(0.97)V_(0.03)B₂. According to the two-band Ginzburg-Landau
theory applied to MgB₂, the lower critical field exhibits a change in
concavity (from negative to positive, upon cooling) at T_(f)/T_(c)∼ 0.5
[33]. Since this change is scarcely distinct and the model depends upon
the interband mixing of the two order parameters and of their gradients,
it is difficult to interpret the μ₀H_(c1)(T) trend which, as reported in
the literature for MgB₂[34, 35] can be fitted even with a line. On the
other hand, the previously reported Zr_(0.96)V_(0.04)B₂ data [7] show a
pronounced upturn, which is not

Figure 6: ¹¹B NMR 1/T₁(T) data at 3.505 T for Zr_(0.96)V_(0.04)B₂ (main
plot) and Hf_(0.97)V_(0.03)B₂ (inset), representing the two relaxation
times of Eq. (2), which result from fitting the inversion recovery
curves. Both superconducting samples exhibit a conventional metallic
trend (red points) and a superconducting dropdown (magenta points). The
blue lines are power laws with critical exponent 3, that would be a
signature of d-wave superconductivity. In both samples we argue that the
faster relaxation rates below 5.5 K with respect to the power-law
support the hypothesis of s-wave pairing.

Figure 7: The temperature dependence of μ₀H_(c1) exhibits a negative
curvature. By using parabolic fits (dashed lines) the approximate
H_(c1)(0) values are obtained: 2.5 mT for Zr_(0.96)V_(0.04)B₂ and 3.6 mT
for Hf_(0.97)V_(0.03)B₂. Inset: the M vs. H plots (zero field cooling)
in Zr_(0.96)V_(0.04)B₂ at 3, 5, and 9 K.

present in our case. The reason for this discrepancy is unclear at the
moment.

### Resistivity

Systematic resistivity measurements were performed in zero field on all
the samples (ZrB₂, HfB₂, Zr_(0.96)V_(0.04)B₂, and Hf_(0.97)V_(0.03)B₂),
as shown in Fig. 8, and on the superconducting samples
Zr_(0.96)V_(0.04)B₂ (see the inset of Fig. 8) and Hf_(0.97)V_(0.03)B₂ in
magnetic fields up to 7 T.

Each resistance measurements in zero field (ZF) was performed from 2 to
310 K, while in field we focused our attention on the superconducting
transition region (range from 2 to 10 K). Due to the small resistivity
values, i.e., ρ(T_(c)) ∼ 0.7 μΩcm for Zr_(0.96)V_(0.04)B₂ and 0.8 μΩcm
for Hf_(0.97)V_(0.03)B₂, we argue that we can analyze our data within
the clean limit approximation.

Based on the data at different fields, the μ₀H_(c2)(T) values were
evaluated (see Fig. 9). According to the theory of Werthamer, Helfand,
and Hohenberg (WHH) [36], in the clean limit [37] and for small
spin-orbit couplings [38] we have

$$\mu_{0}H_{c2}(0)=-0.73~{}T_{c}~{}\frac{d~{}H_{c2}}{dT}\bigg{|}_{T=T_{c}}.$$
(3)

Within this approximation, μ₀H_(c2)(T_(c)) can be fitted with a
parabolic curve

μ₀H_(c2)(T) = μ₀H_(c2)(0) [1 − (T/T_(c))²].
(4)

From the Ginzburg-Landau formula ξ(0) = {ϕ₀/(2π μ₀H_(c2)(0))^(1/2), our
estimate of the coherence lengths ξ(0) in both Zr_(0.96)V_(0.04)B₂ and
Hf_(0.97)V_(0.03)B₂ are 4.5(1) and 5.5(1) nm, respectively. By
numerically solving

$$\frac{\mu_{0}H_{c2}(0)}{\mu_{0}H_{c1}(0)}=\frac{2\kappa^{2}}{\ln\kappa},$$
(5)

we finally obtain the Ginzburg-Landau κ parameter, with a value of 125
for Zr_(0.96)V_(0.04)B₂ and 80 for Hf_(0.97)V_(0.03)B₂, respectively,
indicating the strong type-II nature of these superconductors. From
κ = λ/ξ, the London penetration depth λ(0) in the two materials, is 570
and 445 nm, respectively.

### Muon-spin rotation results in the SC phase

Values of similar magnitude for the magnetic field penetration depth
were obtained from preliminary muon-spin rotation (μSR) experiments on
Zr_(0.96)V_(0.04)B₂ (see Fig. 10). Once implanted in matter,
spin-polarized muons act as microscopic probes of magnetism, which upon
decay emit positrons preferentially along the muon-spin direction. From
the spatial anisotropy of the emitted positrons (i.e., the asymmetry
signal) one can reveal the distribution of the local magnetic fields
[39; 40]. In our case, by applying 0.6 T, a regular flux-line lattice
(FLL) develops in the superconducting phase below T_(c). By uniformly
sampling the FLL, muons experience an additional relaxation
$\sigma_{\rm sc}$, which is related to the absolute magnetic penetration
depth λ via [41; 42]

$$\frac{\sigma_{sc}^{2}}{\gamma_{\mu}^{2}}=0.00371\cdot\frac{\varphi_{0}^{2}}{ \lambda^{4}}.$$
(6)

Here Φ₀ = 2.068 × 10⁻³ Tμm² is the magnetic flux quantum and
γ_(μ) = 2π  × 135.53 MHz/T, the muon gyromagnetic ratio.

Figure 8: R vs. T data for all the samples (ZrB₂, HfB₂,
Zr_(0.96)V_(0.04)B₂, and Hf_(0.97)V_(0.03)B₂) in zero field. The
superconducting dropdown in Zr_(0.96)V_(0.04)B₂ and Hf_(0.97)V_(0.03)B₂
are evident and confirm the SQUID magnetometry measurement. On the other
hand, undoped samples exhibit a constant plateau, as reflected also by
the constance of Knight shift (see Sec. IV.1). We attribute the small
dropdown of ZrB₂ to ZrB₁₂ impurities. The inset shows the resistivity
data of Zr_(0.96)V_(0.04)B₂ between 2 and 35 K has been measured at
different fields (from 0 to 7 T), confirming a reduced steepness towards
higher fields (ΔT ranging from 2.5 to 3.5 K towards higher fields) and
the expected negative shift.

Figure 9: μ₀H_(c2)(T_(c)) plots for Zr_(0.96)V_(0.04)B₂ (filled orange
circles) and Hf_(0.97)V_(0.03)B₂ (filled red triangles) are derived from
resistivity measurements at different field from 0 to 7 T. Via the WHH
model, that implies a parabolic fit (green and blue continuous lines),
we can evaluate μ₀H_(c2)(0), i.e., 16.4 T for Zr_(0.96)V_(0.03)B₂ and
10.8 T for Hf_(0.97)V_(0.03)B₂. Since Hf is heavier than Zr, we argue
that the lower value in the upper critical field is related to the lower
average phonon frequency. The old data (Ref. [7], empty squares) and the
new ones (circles) are in good agreement.

Figure 10 shows the temperature dependence of σ_(sc), proportional to
the superfluid density [σ_(sc) ∝ n_(s) ∝ λ⁻²(T)], together with a
numerical fit with an average-field model
1/λ²(T) = [1/λ²(0)][1 − (T/T_(c))^(n)], which gives
1/λ²(0) = 1.43 ± 0.2μm⁻² and n = 2.0 ± 0.1. Subsequently, by using the
relation $\lambda_{sub}(0)=\lambda_{\rm eff}(0)/1.31$, we estimate the
in-plane magnetic penetration depth λ_(sub)(0) = 638 ± 11 nm. This value
is close to the one determined via macroscopic methods (see above), but
it is very different from λ_(sub)(0) = 100 nm, also measured via μSR in
MgB₂[18]. This difference can be accounted for by considering the rather
small electronic density of states in Zr_(0.96)V_(0.04)B₂ compared to
that in MgB₂, compatible with the very different NMR relaxation-rate
values reported in Table 1.

As a final note, we recall that the choice of the applied transverse
field is crucial for the correct determination of the field penetration
depth. Indeed, detailed studies of the magnetic field dependence of the
muon-spin depolarization rate in MgB₂ (see, e.g., Figs. 1 and 2 in Ref.
[18]) have shown strong pinning effects in low applied fields (below 0.3
T). These imply a considerably distorted vortex lattice leading to a
strong decay of the muon asymmetry and hence underestimated λ_(sub)(0)
values. However, since in fields exceeding 0.3 T, only weak or no
pinning effects were observed, we are confident that by applying a
transverse field of 0.6 T, our results reflect the penetration depth.

## V Summary and conclusion

From SQUID magnetometry, NMR, resistivity, and preliminary μSR
experiment data on ZrB₂, HfB₂, Zr_(0.96)V_(0.04)B₂, and
Hf_(0.97)V_(0.03)B₂, we argue that the latter two samples are s-wave
superconductors, resulting from electron doping via d orbitals of
vanadium. On the other hand, in MgB₂ the peculiar self-doping exists
thanks to the boron-related electrons at the Fermi level; at the same
time also the s states of Mg donate their electrons to the boron-derived
conduction bands (_metallic_ B). It is also worth mentioning that B
vacancies (a common defect occurring in diborides) enhance the DOS even
further (more than twice for doping of about 0.5

## Acknowledgment

This work was financially supported in part by the Schweizerische
Nationalfonds zur Forderung der Wissenschaftlichen Forschung (SNF).

## References

* [1] W. Meissner and H. Franz, Supraleitfahigkeit von Carbiden und
Nitriden, Naturwissenschaften **18**, 418 (1930). * [2] R. Hott, R.
Kleiner, Th. Wolf, and G. Zwicknagl, Review on superconducting
materials, in _Digital Encyclopedia of Applied Physics_, edited by R. K.
Harris and R. E. Wayslishen (Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Hoboken,
NJ, 2016). * [3] J. Nagamatsu, N. Nakagawa, T. Muranaka, Y. Zenitani,
and J. Akimitsu, Superconductivity at 39 K in magnesium diboride, Nature
(London) **410**, 63 (2001). * [4] J. Kortus, I. I. Mazin, K. D.
Belashchenko, V. P. Antropov, and L. L. Boyer, Superconductivity of
Metallic Boron in MgB₂, Phys. Rev. Lett. **86**, 4656 (2001). * [5] A.
V. Sologubenko, J. Jun, S. M. Kazakov, J. Karpinski, and H.-R. Ott,
Temperature dependence and anisotropy of the bulk upper critical field
H_(c2) of MgB₂, Phys. Rev. B **65**, 180505 (2002). * [6] R. Heid, B.
Renker, H. Schober, P. Adelmann, D. Ernst, and K.-P. Bohnen, Lattice
dynamics and electron-phonon coupling in transition-metal diborides,
Phys. Rev. B **67**, 180510 (2003). * [7] S. T. Renosto, H. Consoline,
C. A. M. dos Santos, J. Albino Aguiar, S.-G. Jung, J. Vanacken, V. V.
Moshchalkov, Z. Fisk, and A. J. S. Machado, Evidence of multiband
behavior in the superconducting alloy Zr_(0.96)V_(0.04)B₂, Phys. Rev. B
**87**, 174502 (2013). * [8] M. Dahlqvist, U. Jansson, and J. Rosen,
Influence of boron vacancies on phase stability, bonding and structure
of MB₂ (M = Ti, Zr, Hf, V, Nb, Ta, Cr, Mo, W) with AlB₂ type structure,
J. Phys.: Condens. Matter **27**, 435702 (2015). * [9] I. R. Shein and
A. L. Ivanovskii, Band structure of ZrB₂, VB₂, NbB₂, and TaB₂ hexagonal
diborides: Comparison with superconducting Mg₂, Phys. Solid State
**44**, 1833 (2002).

Figure 10: Transverse-field μ_(S)R data in the superconducting phase of
Zr_(0.96)V_(0.04)B₂ in a magnetic field μ₀H = 0.6 T.

* [10] G. E. Grechnev, A. V. Fedorchenko, A. V. Logosha, A. S. Panfilov,
I. V. Svechkarev, V. B. Flilippov, A. B. Lyashchenko, and A. V.
Evdokimova, Electronic structure and magnetic properties of transition
metal diborides, J. Alloys Compd. **481**, 75 (2009). * [11] I. I. Mazin
and V. P. Antropov, Electronic structure, electron-phonon coupling, and
multiband effects in MgB₂, Phys. C: Supercond. **385**, 49 (2003). *
[12] J. P. Perdew and Y. Wang, Accurate and simple analytic
representation of the electron-gas correlation energy, Phys. Rev. B
**45**, 13244 (1992). * [13] B. Delley, An all-electron numerical method
for solving the local density functional for polyatomic molecules, J.
Chem. Phys. **92**, 508 (1990). * [14] B. Delley, From molecules to
solids with the DMol³ approach, J. Chem. Phys. **113**, 7756 (2000). *
[15] B. Delley, A scattering theoretic approach to scalar relativistic
corrections on bonding, Int. J. Quant. Chem. **69**, 423 (1998). * [16]
L. Besenko and T. Lundstrom, The high-temperature hardness of ZrB₂ and
HfB₂, J. Less Common Metals **34**, 273 (1974). * [17] A. Kokalj,
XCrySDen–a new program for displaying crystalline structures and
electron densities, J. Mol. Graph. Model. **17**, 176 (1999). * [18] Ch.
Niedermayer, C. Bernhard, T. Holden, R. K. Kremer, and K. Ahn, Muon spin
relaxation study of the magnetic penetration depth in MgB₂, Phys. Rev. B
**65**, 094512 (2002). * [19] G. Papavassiliou, M. Pissas, M. Fardis, M.
Karyanni, and C. Christides, ¹¹B NMR detection of the magnetic field
distribution in the mixed superconducting state of MgB₂, Phys. Rev. B
**65**, 012510 (2001). * [20] R. Goc and D. Fiat, NMR powder spectrum
simulation for nuclei with I > 1/2, Phys. Status Solidi (B) **140**, 243
(1987). * [21] M. H. Cohen, Nuclear quadrupole spectra in solids, Phys.
Rev. **96**, 1278 (1954). * [22] D. W. Alderman, M. S. Solum, and D. M.
Grant, Methods for analyzing spectroscopic line shapes. NMR solid powder
patterns, J. Chem. Phys. **84**, 3717 (1986). * [23] P. Hodgkinson and
L. Emsley, Numerical simulation of solid-state NMR experiments, Prog.
Nucl. Magn. Reson. Spectrosc. **36**, 201 (2000). * [24] S. H. Baek, B.
J. Suh, E. Pavarini, F. Borsa, R. G. Barnes, S. L. Bud’ko, and P. C.
Canfield, NMR spectroscopy of the normal and superconducting states of
MgB₂ and comparison to AlB₂, Phys. Rev. B **66**, 104510 (2002). * [25]
A. F. McDowell, Magnetization recovery curves for quadrupolar spins, J.
Magn. Reson., Ser. A **113**, 242 (1995). * [26] H. Kotegawa, K. Ishida,
Y. Kitaoka, T. Muranaka, and J. Akimitsu, Evidence for Strong-Coupling
s-Wave Superconductivity in MgB₂: ¹¹B NMR Study, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**87**, 127001 (2001). * [27] E. Pavarini, S. H. Baek, B. J. Suh, F.
Borsa, S. L. Bud’ko, and P. C. Canfield, NMR relaxation rates and Knight
shifts in MgB₂ and AlB₂: Theory versus experiments, Supercond. Sci.
Tech. **16**, 147 (2003). * [28] J. K. Jung, S. H. Baek, F. Borsa, S. L.
Bud’ko, G. Lapertot, and P. C. Canfield, ¹¹B NMR and relaxation in the
MgB₂ superconductor, Phys. Rev. B **64**, 012514 (2001). * [29] A.
Rigamonti, F. Borsa, and P. Carretta, Basic aspects and main results of
NMR-NQR spectroscopies in high-temperature superconductors, Rep. Progr.
Phys. **61**, 1367 (1998). * [30] Y. Masuda and N. Okubo, Nuclear
spin-lattice relaxation in superconducting mixed state, J. Phys. Soc.
Jpn. **26**, 309 (1969). * [31] J. Karpinski, N. D. Zhigadlo, S.
Katrych, K. Rogacki, B. Batlogg, M. Tortello, and R. Puzniak, MgB₂
single crystals substituted with Li and with Li-C: Structural and
superconducting properties, Phys. Rev. B **77**, 214507 (2008). * [32]
S.-G. Jung, J. Vanacken, V. V. Moshchalkov, S. T. Renosto, C. A. M. dos
Santos, A. J. S. Machado, Z. Fisk, and J. Albino Aguir, Critical current
density and flux pinning in Zr_(0.96) V_(0.94) B₂ superconductor with
AlB₂ structure, J. Appl. Phys. **114**, 133905 (2013). * [33] I. N.
Askerzade, A. Gencer, and N. Gu$\acute{\rm c}$li, On the Ginzburg-Landau
analysis of the upper critical field H_(c2) in MgB₂, Supercond. Sci.
Technol. **15**, L13 (2002). * [34] A. Sharoni, I. Felner, and O. Millo,
Tunneling spectroscopy and magnetization measurements of the
superconducting properties of MgB₂, Phys. Rev. B **63**, 220508
(2001). * [35] S. L. Li, H. H. Wen, Z. W. Zhao, Y. M. Ni, Z. A. Ren, G.
C. Che, H. P. Yang, Z. Y. Liu, and Z. X. Zhao, Linear temperature
dependence of lower critical field in MgB₂, Phys. Rev. B **64**, 094522
(2001). * [36] E. Helfand and N. R. Werthamer, Temperature and purity
dependence of the superconducting critical field, H_(c2). II, Phys. Rev.
**147**, 288 (1966). * [37] S. Khim, B. Lee, J. W. Kim, E. S. Choi, G.
R. Stewart, and K. H. Kim, Pauli-limiting effects in the upper critical
fields of a clean LiFeAs single crystal, Phys. Rev. B **84**, 104502
(2011). * [38] N. R. Werthamer, E. Helfand, and P. C. Hohenberg,
Temperature and purity dependence of the superconducting critical field,
H_(c2). III. Electron spin and spin-orbit effects, Phys. Rev. **147**,
295 (1966). * [39] S. J. Blundell, Spin-polarized muons in condensed
matter physics, Contemp. Physics **40**, 175 (1999). * [40] A. Yaouanc
and P. Dalmas de Reotier, _Muon Spin Rotation, Relaxation, and
Resonance: Applications to Condensed Matter_ (Oxford University Press,
Oxford, 2011). * [41] E. H. Brandt, Flux distribution and penetration
depth measured by muon spin rotation in high-T_(c) superconductors,
Phys. Rev. B **37**, 2349 (1988). * [42] E. H. Brandt, Properties of the
ideal Ginzburg-Landau vortex lattice, Phys. Rev. B **68**, 054506
(2003).
