# Dependence of T_(c) on hydrostatic pressure in superconducting MgB₂

T. Tomita, J. J. Hamlin, and J. S. Schilling

Department of Physics, Washington University, C. B. 1105, One Brookings
Dr., St. Louis, Missouri 63130

D. G. Hinks and J. D. Jorgensen

Materials Science Division, Argonne National Laboratory, 9700 South Cass
Avenue, Argonne, Illinois 60439

Received 23 March 2001; published 8 August 2001

###### Abstract

The dependence of T_(c) on hydrostatic (He-gas) pressure for
superconducting MgB₂ has been determined to 0.7 GPa. We find that T_(c)
decreases linearly and reversibly under pressure at the rate
dT_(c)/dP= - 1.11 +- 0.02 K/GPa. These studies were carried out on the
same sample used in earlier structural studies under He-gas pressure
which yielded the bulk modulus B= 147.2 +- 0.7 GPa. The value of the
logarithmic volume derivative of T_(c) is thus accurately determined, d
ln T_(c)/d ln V= + 4.16 +- 0.08, allowing quantitative comparison with
theory. The present results support the emerging picture that MgB₂ is a
BCS superconductor with electron-phonon pairing interaction.

pacs: DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.64.092505 PACS number(s): 74.62.Fj,
74.70.Ad + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL REVIEW B, VOLUME 64, 092505

The recent discovery[1] of superconductivity in MgB₂ at T_(c)= 39 K has
sparked worldwide a torrent of experimental and theoretical activity,
reminiscent of the frenzy following the observation[2] of
superconductivity in La-Ba-Cu-O at a comparable temperature almost 15
years ago. Replacing ¹⁰B with ¹¹B results in a sizable isotope shift[3]
to lower temperatures which points to BCS superconductivity. Other
experiments, such as heat capacity,[4, 5] photoemission spectroscopy,[6]
and inelastic neutron scattering,[7, 8] also support the picture that
MgB₂ is a phonon-mediated superconductor in the weak-to-moderate
coupling regime.

High-pressure studies traditionally play an important role in
superconductivity. A large magnitude of the pressure derivative
dT_(c)/dP is a good indication that higher values of T_(c) may be
obtained through chemical means. It is not widely appreciated, however,
that the pressure dependence T_(c)(P), like the isotope effect, contains
valuable information on the superconducting mechanism itself. For
example, in simple-metal BCS superconductors, like Al, In, Sn, and Pb,
T_(c) invariably decreases under pressure due to the reduced
electron-phonon coupling from lattice stiffening.[9] More generally, an
accurate determination of the dependence of both T_(c) and the lattice
parameters on pressure yields the functional dependence T_(c)=
T_(c)[a(P), b(P), c(P)] which provides a critical test of theoretical
models. Hirsch[10] and Hirsch and Marsiglio[11] have applied a theory of
hole superconductivity to MgB₂ and predicted that for an optimally doped
sample T_(c) should increase with pressure, in contrast to the expected
decrease in T_(c) from lattice stiffening.

Precise structural data on MgB₂ at room temperature (RT) have recently
been obtained by Jorgensen _et al.[12]_ for hydrostatic pressures to 0.6
GPa in a He-gas neutron diffraction facility which yield the anisotropic
compressibilities d ln a/dP= - 1.87 × 10⁻³ GPa⁻¹, d ln b/dP= - 3.07 ×
10⁻³ GPa⁻¹, and the bulk modulus B= 147.2 +- 0.7 GPa; the
compressibility along the c axis is thus significantly (64

Recent synchrotron x-ray diffraction studies at RT in a diamond-anvil
cell (DAC) to much higher pressures (8-12 GPa) using dense He (Ref.
[14]) or methanol-ethanol[15] as hydrostatic pressure media yield the
bulk moduli B= 155 +- 10 GPa and 151 +- 5 GPa, respectively, in
agreement, within experimental error, with the He-gas study.[12] A
further DAC study[16] to 7 GPa with silicon oil as pressure medium gives
the significantly smaller value B= 120 +- 5 GPa, even though the
reported 2.9

Several studies of the dependence of T_(c) on pressure have appeared for
MgB₂. In an experiment utilizing a fluid pressure medium (Fluorinert),
Lorenz _et al.[17]_ report that T_(c) decreases linearly with pressure
to 1.8 GPa at the rate dT_(c)/dP≈ - 1.6 K/GPa. On the other hand, using
the same pressure medium, Saito _et al.[18]_ find the more rapid
decrease dT_(c)/dP≈ - 2.0 K/GPa. Both groups cite their results to argue
that MgB₂ is a BCS phonon-mediated superconductor,[17, 18] as is also
argued by Loa and Syassen.[13] In further experiments to 25 GPa
utilizing the solid pressure medium steatite, Monteverde _et al.[19]_
find that T_(c) decreases under pressure at differing initial rates (−
0.35 K/GPa to − 0.8 K/GPa), T_(c)(P) showing a quadratic behavior for
two of the four samples studied; each of the four samples was prepared
using a different synthesis procedure.

In the present experiment, T_(c)(P) is determined to 0.7 GPa in an ac
susceptibility measurement using a He-gas pressure system; the helium
pressure medium remains fluid at T_(c)≈ 39 K up to 0.5 GPa and thus
applies true hydrostatic pressure (no shear stresses) to the sample. We
find that T_(c) decreases linearly and reversibly with pressure at the
rate dT_(c)/dP ≈ − 1.11± 0.02 K/GPa. Implications for the nature of the
superconducting state are discussed.

The powder sample for this study was taken from the same mother sample
used in parallel neutron diffraction studies.[12] It is made using
isotopically enriched ¹¹B (Eagle Picher, 98.46 at.

The present high-pressure studies were carried out using a He-gas
high-pressure system (Harwood) to 1.4 GPa; the pressure is determined by
a calibrated manganin gauge in the compressor system at ambient
temperature. The superconducting transition of the 8.12-mg MgB₂ powder
sample is measured by the ac susceptibility technique using a miniature
primary-secondary coil system located inside the 7-mm-i.d. bore of the
pressure cell. A small Pb sphere with 1.76 mm diameter (38.58 mg) is
also inserted in the coil system for susceptibility calibration
purposes; for selected data the superconducting transition temperature
of this Pb sphere serves as an internal manometer[20] to check the
pressure indicated by the manganin gauge. The CuBe pressure cell
(Unipress), which is connected to the compressor system by a 3 mm o.d.
× 0.3 mm i.d. CuBe capillary tube, is inserted into a two-stage
closed-cycle refrigerator (Leybold) operating in the temperature range
2−320 K. The pressure can be changed at any temperature above the
melting curve T_(m) of the helium pressure medium [for example,
T_(m) ≈ 13.6 K at 0.1 GPa and T_(m) ≈ 38.6 K at 0.50 GPa (Ref. [21])].
For pressures above 0.5 GPa, T_(m) lies above T_(c) ; the slight
pressure drop (few 0.01 GPa) on cooling from T_(m) to T_(c) is estimated
using the isochores of He.[21] All pressures are determined at the
temperature T_(c) ≈ 39 K. Further details of the experimental techniques
are given elsewhere.[22]

In Fig. 1 are shown representative examples of the superconducting
transition in the ac susceptibility at both ambient and high pressure.
With increasing pressure the narrow transition is seen to shift bodily
to lower temperatures, allowing a determination of the pressure-induced
shift in T_(c) to within ± 10 mK. Remarkably, close inspection of the
data for 0.50 GPa reveals a slight shift in the transition curve near
its midpoint, accurately marking the position of the melting curve of
helium (T_(m) ≈ 38.6 K) at this pressure.

In Fig. 2, T_(c) is plotted versus applied pressure to 0.7 GPa and is
seen to follow a highly linear dependence dT_(c)/dP ≈ − 1.11± 0.02
K/GPa. The first data point 1^(′) was obtained after first applying a
pressure of ∼ 0.7 GPa at RT before cooling down to low temperatures
(∼ 60 K) and reducing the pressure, yielding T_(c) ≈ 38.8 K at 0.341
GPa. Point 2^(′) was measured after releasing the pressure at low
temperature, giving T_(c) ≈ 39.25 K at ambient pressure (0 GPa); no
change in T_(c) occurred after intermittently warming the sample to RT
(point 3). Further data were obtained following pressure changes at both
RT (unprimed data) and low temperature (primed data). As is observed for
the vast majority of superconducting materials without phase change, the
dependence of T_(c) on pressure for MgB₂ is single-valued and does not
depend on the pressure-temperature history of the sample; such history
effects do occur in certain high-T_(c) oxides containing mobile species
at RT.[23] We thus find that for He-gas pressure changes at both ambient
and low temperature, T_(c)(P) for MgB₂ is a linear, reversible function
of pressure to 0.7 GPa.[24]

In the present experiments the sample is surrounded by fluid helium near
T_(c) ≈ 39 K for all data taken at pressures P ≈ 0.50 GPa so that the
slope dT_(c)/dP ≈ -1.11 K/GPa gives the true hydrostatic pressure
dependence of T_(c) . The

Figure 2: Superconducting transition temperature vs applied pressure.
Numbers give the order of measurement. Data for points 2^(′), 6, 8^(′),
and 11 are shown in Fig. 1. A typical error bar for T_(c) ( ± 0.01 K) is
given in the lower left corner; the error in pressure is less than the
symbol size. Pressure was either changed at RT (unprimed numbers) or at
low temperatures ∼60 K (primed numbers).

Figure 1: Real part of the ac susceptibility of MgB₂ vs temperature at
ambient and high pressures. The applied magnetic field is 0.113 Oe (rms)
at 1023 Hz. The intercept of straight tangent lines defines the
superconducting onset at ambient pressure T_(c)(0) = 39.25 K. No
correction is made for demagnetization effects.

fact that the sample is in solid helium for P > 0.5 GPa is seen in Fig.
2 to have no effect on the pressure dependence _T_c(_P_); indeed, solid
helium is the softest solid known. Our value of _dT_c/_dP_ differs
significantly from those of other groups [17, 18, 19] (see discussion
above) using pressure media which are either solid at RT or freeze upon
cooling down at temperatures well above _T_c.

In view of the strong compressibility anisotropy [12] and the sizable
anharmonicity and nonlinear electron-phonon coupling [8] anticipated for
MgB2, it is likely that shear stresses of sufficient magnitude will
cause appreciable changes in the pressure dependence of _T_c, as
observed for other anisotropic substances such as the superconducting
oxides [25] and organic superconductors. [26] The largest shear stresses
are generated by changing the pressure on a solid pressure medium, such
as steatite, or using no pressure medium at all. The shear stresses
generated in cooling Fluorinert or other comparable liquids through the
melting curve are admittedly much smaller and depend on details of the
individual experimental procedures used, such as the cooling rate,
change in applied force upon cooling, etc. Only experiment can determine
whether or not the _T_c(_P_) dependences measured in the Fluorinert
pressure medium [17, 18] are influenced by shear stresses. To exclude
the possibility of sample-dependent effects, such experiments should be
carried out on a single sample. Lorenz _et al._[27] have very recently
carried out He-gas high-pressure studies on the same sample studied by
them previously in Fluorinert [17] and find a value of _dT_c/_dP_ equal
to their previous value (-1.6 K/GPa), within experimental error; further
measurements in the same He-gas system on a second, high-quality sample
yielded the dependence _dT_c/_dP_ = -1.07 K/GPa, a value very close to
our present result. This finding lends support to the observation by
Monteverde _et al._[19] that _dT_c/_dP_ in MgB2 may be sample dependent.

The present _T_c(_P_) studies and parallel high-pressure structural
studies by Jorgensen _et al._[12] were both carried out on the same MgB2
sample over the same He-gas pressure range, thus allowing an accurate
determination of the change in _T_c with lattice parameter. The change
in _T_c with unit cell volume, for example, is given by

$$\frac{d\ln T_{c}}{d\ln V} = \frac{B}{T_{c}}\left( \frac{dT_{c}}{dP} \right) = + 4.16 \pm 0.08,$$

using the above values _dT_c/_dP_ = 1.11 +- 0.02 K/GPa, B = 147.2 +- 0.7
GPa, and _T_c = 39.25 K.

We will now discuss the implications of this result for the nature of
the superconducting state in MgB2. First consider the McMillan equation
[28]

T_(c) ≈ (⟨ω⟩/1.20)exp [[−1.04(1 + λ)}/[λ − μ * (1 + 0.62λ)}]]

valid for strong coupling (l <= 1.5), which connects the value of _T_c
with the electron-phonon coupling parameter l, an average phonon
frequency ⟨ω⟩, and the Coulomb repulsion _m_*, which we assume to be
pressure independent. Taking the logarithmic volume derivative of _T_c,
we obtain the simple relation

$$\frac{d\ln T_{c}}{d\ln V} = - \gamma + \Delta\left[ \frac{d\ln\,\eta}{d\ln V} + 2\gamma \right\rbrack,$$

where g = - d ln⟨ω⟩/_d_ ln V is the Gruneisen parameter, e =
_N_(_E_/_I_2) is the Hopfield parameter [29] given by the product of the
electronic density of states and the average-squared electronic matrix
element, and Δ = 1.04Δ{1 + 0.38μ*}/[λ − μ * (1 + 0.62λ)}².

Equation (2) has a simple interpretation. The first term on the right,
which comes from the prefactor to the exponent in the McMillan
expression for _T_c, is usually small relative to the second term, as
will be demonstrated below. The sign of the logarithmic derivative d ln
_T_c/_d_ ln V, therefore, is determined by the relative magnitude of the
two terms in the curly brackets. The first "electronic" derivative is
negative [_d_ ln _e_/_d_ ln V = -1 for simple metals (_s,p electrons),
[30] but equals - 3 to - 4 for transition metals (_d_ electrons) (Ref.
[29]), whereas the second "lattice" term is positive (typically 2 g = 3
-5). Since in simple-metal superconductors, like Al, In, Sn, and Pb, the
lattice term dominates over the electronic term and D is always
positive, the sign of d ln _T_c/_d_ ln V is the same as that in the
curly brackets, namely, positive; this accounts for the universal
decrease of _T_c with pressure due to lattice stiffening in simple
metals. In selected transition metals the electronic term may become
larger than the lattice term, in which case _T_c would be expected to
increase with pressure, as observed in experiment. [29]

Let us now apply Eq. (2) in more detail to a canonical BCS simple-metal
superconductor. In Sn, for example, _T_c decreases under pressure at the
rate _dT_c/_dP_ = -0.482 K/GPa which leads to d ln _T_c/_d_ ln V + 7.2.
[20] Inserting _T_c(0) = 3.73 K, ⟨ω⟩ ≈ 110 K, [51] and μ* = 0.1 into the
above McMillan equation, we obtain l = 0.69 from which follows that D =
2.47. Inserting these values into Eq. (2) and setting d ln _e_/_d_ ln
V - 1 from above for simple metals, we can solve Eq. (2) for the
Gruneisen parameter to obtain g >= + 2.46, in reasonable agreement with
experiment for Sn (_g_ >= + 2.1). [20] Similar results are obtained for
other simple-metal superconductors.

We now repeat the same calculation with the McMillan equation for MgB2
using the logarithmically averaged phonon energy from inelastic neutron
studies [ω⟩ = 670 K, _T_c(0)  ≈ 39.25 K, and μ* = 0.1, yielding l
λ ≈ 0.90 and l = 1.75. From Eq. (1) we have d ln _T_c/_d_ ln V = +4.16.
Since the pairing electrons in MgB2 are believed to be _s,p_ in
character, [32] we set d ln _e_/_d_ ln V - 1.33 Inserting these values
into Eq. (2), we find g >= 2.36, in reasonable agreement with the value
g >= 2.9 from Raman spectroscopy studies [14] or g >= 2.3 from _ab
initio_ electronic structure calculations on MgB2, [34] If, on the other
hand, one were to use the same bulk modulus but the pressure derivative
_dT_c/_dP_ - 2.0 K/GPa from Saito _et al._, [18] one obtains from Eq.
(2) the unusually high value g >= 3.7.

In extensive specific heat [5] and high-resolution photoemission studies
[35] on MgB2, evidence is found for a multicomponent superconducting
gap; the latter study also reports an inconsistency in the values of the
electron-phonon coupling constant from McMillan’s equation and the
renormalization of the electronic density of states. These results call
into question the suitability of the isotropic McMillan equation for
describing this system.

Under the above assumptions, we thus conclude that the rate of decrease
of T_(c) with pressure found in the present experiments on MgB₂ is
consistent with BCS phonon-mediated superconductivity. From this rate
and measurements of the bulk modulus on the same sample, we calculate
the dependence of T_(c) on volume to be dln T_(c)/dln V= +4.16 ± 0.08.
At first glance the present results appear to be inconsistent with the
model of Hirsch and Marsiglio[10, 11] which predicts that T_(c) should
increase with pressure for optimally doped samples. However, within
their model, T_(c) for a nonoptimally doped sample may decrease if
sufficient change in the carrier concentration occurs when pressure is
applied. Further studies, such as high-pressure Hall effect
measurements, are necessary to clarify this possibility.

Work at Washington University was supported by NSF Grant No. DMR
98-03820 and that at the Argonne National Laboratory by the U.S.
Department of Energy, Office of Science, Contract No. W-31-109-ENG-38.

## References

* [1] J. Nagamatsu, N. Nakagawa, T. Muranaka, Y. Zenitani, and J.
Akimitsu, Nature (London) **410**, 63 (2001). * [2] J.G. Bednorz and
J.A. Muller, Z. Phys. B **64**, 189 (1986). * [3] S.L. Bud’ko, G.
Lapertot, C. Petrovic, C.E. Cunningham, N. Anderson, and P.C. Canfield,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **86**, 1877 (2001); D. G. Hinks, H. Claus, and J.
Jorgensen, Nature (London) **411**, 457 (2001). * [4] R.K. Kremer, B.J.
Gibson, and K. Ahn, cond-mat/0102432 (unpublished). * [5] Y. Wang, T.
Plackowski, and A. Junod, cond-mat/0103181 (unpublished). * [6] T.
Takahashi, T. Sato, S. Souma, T. Muranaka, and J. Akimitsu, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **86**, 4915 (2001). * [7] R. Osborn, E.A. Goremychkin, A.I.
Kolesnikov, and D.G. Hinks, Phys. Rev. Lett. **87**, 017005 (2001). *
[8] T. Yildirim, O. Gulseren, J. W. Lynn, C. M. Brown, T. J. Udovic, H.
Z. Qing, N. Rogado, K. A. Regan, M. A. Hayward, J. S. Slusky, T. He, M.
K. Haas, P. Khalifah, K. Inumaru, and R. J. Cava, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**87**, 037001 (2001). * [9] See, for example, P.E. Seiden, Phys. Rev.
**179**, 458 (1969). * [10] J.E. Hirsch, cond-mat/0102115
(unpublished). * [11] J.E. Hirsch and F. Marsiglio, cond-mat/0102479
(unpublished). * [12] J. D. Jorgensen, D. G. Hinks, and S. Short, Phys.
Rev. B **63**, 224522 (2001). * [13] I. Loa and K. Syassen, Solid State
Commun. **118**, 279 (2001). * [14] A.F. Goncharov, V.V. Struzhkin, E.
Gregoryanz, J. Hu, R.J. Hemley, Ho-k. Mao, G. Lapertot, S.L. Bud’ko, and
P.C. Canfield, cond-mat/0104042, Phys. Rev. B (to be published 1
September 2001). * [15] K. Prassides, Y. Iwasa, T. Ito, Dam H. Chi, K.
Uehara, E. Nishibori, M. Takata, S. Sakata, Y. Ohishi, O. Shimomura, T.
Muranaka, and J. Akimitsu, Phys Rev B **64**, 012509 (2001). * [16] T.
Vogt, G. Schneider, J.A. Hriljac, G. Yang, and J.S. Abell, Phys. Rev. B
**63**, 220505 (2001). * [17] B. Lorenz, R. L. Meng, and C. W. Chu,
Phys. Rev. B **64**, 012507 (2001). * [18] E. Saito, T. Takenobu, T.
Ito, Y. Iwasa, K. Prassides, and T. Arima, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter
**13**, L267 (2001). * [19] M. Monteverde, M. Nunez-Regueiro, N. Rogado,
K.A. Regan, M.A. Hayward, T. He, S.M. Loureiro, and R.J. Cava, Science
**292**, 75 (2001). * [20] A. Eiling and J.S. Schilling, J. Phys. F
**11**, 623 (1981). * [21] I.L. Spain and S. Segall, Cryogenics **11**,
26 (1971). * [22] J. S. Schilling, J. Diederichs, S. Klotz, and R.
Sieburger, in _Magnetic Susceptibility of Superconductors and Other Spin
Systems_, edited by R. A. Hein, T. L. Francavilla, and D. H. Liebenberg
(Plenum Press, New York, 1991), p. 107. * [23] See, for example, S.
Sadewasser, J.S. Schilling, and A.M. Hermann, Phys. Rev. B **62**, 9155
(2000). * [24] In a separate experiment on MgB₂ to 0.077 GPa pressure in
neon gas, an identical T_(c)(P) dependence was obtained. * [25] S. Klotz
and J.S. Schilling, Physica C **209**, 499 (1993); J. S. Schilling and
S. Klotz, in _Physical Properties of High Temperature Superconductors_,
edited by D. M. Ginsberg (World Scientific, Singapore, 1992), Vol. III,
p. 59. * [26] T. Ishiguro, H. Ito, Y. Yamauchi, E. Ohmichi, M. Kubota,
H. Yamochi, G. Saito, M.V. Kartsovnik, M.A. Tanatar, Yu.V. Sushko, and
G.Yu. Logvenov, Synth. Met. **85**, 1471 (1997); D. Jermone and H.J.
Schulz, Adv. Phys. **31**, 299 (1982). * [27] B. Lorenz, R.L. Meng, and
C.W. Chu, cond-mat/0104303 (unpublished). * [28] W.L. McMillan, Phys.
Rev. **167**, 331 (1968); P.B. Allen and R.C. Dynes, Phys. Rev. B
**12**, 905 (1975). * [29] J.J. Hopfield, Physica (Amsterdam) **55**, 41
(1971). * [30] J. S. Schilling and S. Klotz, in _Physical Properties of
High Temperature Superconductors_, edited by D. M. Ginsberg (World
Scientific, Singapore, 1992), Vol. III, p. 59. * [31] R.C. Dynes, Solid
State Commun. **10**, 615 (1972). * [32] J. Kortus, I.I. Mazin, K.D.
Belashchenko, V.P. Antropov, and L.L. Boyer, Phys. Rev. Lett. **86**,
4656 (2001); J.M. An and W.E. Pickett, _ibid._**86**, 4366 (2001); Y.
Kong, O. V. Dolgov, O. Jepsen, and O. K. Andersen, Phys. Rev. B **64**,
020501 (2001); N. I. Medvedeva, A. L. Ivanovskii, J. E. Medvedeva, and
A. J. Freeman, _ibid._**64**, 020502 (2001). * [33] The volume
dependence of the Hopfield parameter dln γdln V ∼ −1 used here is in
reasonable agreement with that dln γdln V=Bdln γdln P ∼ −0.81 obtained
from first-principles electronic structure calculations on MgB₂ by N.I.
Medvedeva, A.L. Ivanovskii, J.E. Medvedeva, A.J. Freeman, and D.L.
Novovkov, cond-mat/0104346 (unpublished), which obtain
dln γdρ^(∞)+0.55 * [34] D. Roundy, H. J. Choi, H. Sun, S. G. Louie, and
M. L. Cohen (unpublished). * [35] S. Tsuda, T. Yokoya, T. Kiss, Y.
Takano, K. Tongano, H. Kitou, H. Ihara, and S. Shin, cond-mat/0104489
(unpublished).
