Two-gap superconductivity in Lu₂Fe₃Si₅: A transverse-field muon spin
rotation study

P. K. Biswas,^(1, *) G. Balakrishnan,¹ D. McK. Paul,¹ M. R. Lees,¹ and
A. D. Hillier²

¹Physics Department, University of Warwick, Coventry CV4 7AL, United
Kingdom ²ISIS Facility, Rutherford Appleton Laboratory, Chilton,
Oxfordshire OX11 0QX, United Kingdom

Received 15 October 2010; revised manuscript received 21 January 2011;
published 28 February 2011

###### Abstract

The superconducting properties of Lu₂Fe₃Si₅ with T_(c) = 6.1 K have been
investigated using low-temperature transverse-field muon spin rotation
(μSR) and specific-heat measurements. The magnetic penetration depth at
zero temperature, λ(0), is 353(1) nm. The temperature dependence of the
magnetic penetration depth λ(T) is consistent with a two-gap s + s-wave
model. Low-temperature specific-heat measurements on the same sample
also show evidence of two distinct superconducting gaps.

pacs: DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.83.054517 + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL
REVIEW B **83**, 054517 (2011)

## I Introduction

The discovery of superconductivity in MgB₂ with a T_(c) ∼ 39 K (Ref.
[1]) has generated a great deal of interest in superconducting materials
containing light elements such as B, C, and Si. Among these materials,
the ternary iron silicide superconductors R₂Fe₃Si₅, with R= Lu, Y, or
Sc, are particularly noteworthy due to the presence of iron.[2, 3]
Lu₂Fe₃Si₅ is the most interesting of the ternary iron silicide
superconductors because of its high superconducting transition
temperature (T_(c) = 6.1 K), large upper critical field (μ₀H_(c2) = 6
),[2, 4] and unconventional superconducting properties. Recently, a
detailed study of the low-temperature specific heat on a single crystal
of Lu₂Fe₃Si₅ revealed a two-gap superconductivity similar to that seen
in MgB₂.[5] Lu₂Fe₃Si₅ has a tetragonal Sc₂Fe₃Si₅-type structure (space
group PA/mnc) consisting of quasi-one-dimensional iron chains along the
c axis and quasi-two-dimensional iron squares parallel to the basal
plane.[6]

Muon spin rotation (μSR) is an ideal probe with which to study the mixed
state of type-II superconductors, as it provides microscopic information
of the local field distribution within the bulk of the sample. It has
often been used to measure the temperature dependence of the London
magnetic penetration depth λ in the vortex state.[7, 8] The temperature
and field dependence of λ can provide information on the nature of the
superconducting gap.

Here we have investigated the unusual superconducting properties of
Lu₂Fe₃Si₅ by carrying out low-temperature μSR measurements on a
polycrystalline sample. We show that the temperature dependence of λ can
be well described using a two-gap s + s-wave model. The magnetic
penetration depth at T = 0 K is estimated to be λ(0) = 353(1) nm. We
also study the low-temperature specific heat of Lu₂Fe₃Si₅ in order to
support the validity of the two-gap model. We compare these results with
published data for the R₂Fe₃Si₅ system.

## II Experimental details

A polycrystalline sample of Lu₂Fe₃Si₅ was prepared by melting a
stoichiometric mixture of lutetium shot (99.99

The μSR experiments were performed on the MuSR spectrometer of the ISIS
pulsed muon facility. The transverse-field (TF)-μSR experiments were
conducted with applied fields between 5 and 60 mT, which ensured that
the sample was in the mixed state. The magnetic field was either applied
above the superconducting transition and the sample then cooled to base
temperature [field cooled (FC)], or the sample was first cooled to base
temperature and then the field was applied [zero-field cooled (ZFC)].
The MuSR spectrometer comprises 64 detectors. In software, each detector
is normalized for the muon decay and the data is then reduced to two
orthogonal components which are then fitted simultaneously.

The sample was mounted on a silver plate with a circular area of ∼700
mm² and a small amount of diluted GE varnish was added to aid thermal
contact. The sample and mount were then inserted into an Oxford
Instruments ³He sorbiton cryostat. Any silver exposed to the muon beam
gives a nondecaying sine wave.

## III Results and discussion

TF-μSR precession signals above and below T_(c) = 6.1 K are shown in
Fig. 2. Above the superconducting transition, i.e., in the normal state,
the signal decays very slowly, but the decay is relatively fast in the
superconducting state due to the inhomogeneous field distribution from
the flux-line lattice.

We can model these inhomogeneous field distributions using an
oscillatory decaying Gaussian function,

G_(X)(t) = A₀exp (−Δt)exp (−σ²t²/2)cos (ω₁t + ϕ)
(1)
+A₁cos (ω₂t + ϕ),

where ω₁ and ω₂ are the frequencies of the muon precession signal and
background signal, respectively, ϕ is the initial phase offset, and σ is
the Gaussian muon spin relaxation rate. σ can also be defined as
$\sigma=(\sigma_{\rm sc}^{2}+\sigma_{\rm em}^{2})^{1/2}$, where
$\sigma_{\rm sc}$ is the superconducting contribution to the relaxation
rate and $\sigma_{\rm em}$ is the nuclear magnetic dipolar contribution
which is assumed to be constant over the entire temperature range.
Figure 3(a) shows the temperature dependence of $\sigma_{\rm sc}$
obtained in an applied TF of 0.03 T. Figure 3(b) presents the
magnetic-field dependence of $\sigma_{\rm sc}$ collected at different
temperatures below the superconducting transition. A deviation in the
field dependence of $\sigma_{\rm sc}$ is observed at 40 mT in the data
collected at 0.3 K. A small deviation of $\sigma_{\rm sc}$ is also
present at the same field in the data collected at 2 K, whereas it is
constant above 2 K.

The temperature dependence of the London magnetic penetration depth,
λ(T), is coupled with the superconducting Gaussian muon spin
depolarization rate $\sigma_{\rm sc}(T)$ by the equation

$$\frac{2\sigma_{\rm sc}^{2}(T)}{\gamma_{\mu}^{2}}=0.00371\frac{\Phi_{0}^{2}}{ \lambda^{4}(T)},$$
(2)

where γ_(μ)/2π = 135.5 MHz/T is the muon gyromagnetic ratio and
Φ₀ = 2.068 × 10⁻¹⁵ Wb is the magnetic-flux quantum.[7; 8]λ(T) can be
calculated within the local London approximation[10; 11] by the
following expression:

$$\frac{\lambda^{-2}(T,\Delta_{0,i})}{\lambda^{-2}(0,\Delta_{0,i})}=1+\frac{1}{ \pi}\int_{0}^{2\pi}\int_{\Delta_{i,\mu}}^{\infty}\left(\frac{\partial f}{ \partial E}\right)\frac{EdEd\varphi}{\sqrt{E^{2}-\Delta_{i}(T,\varphi)^{2}}},$$
(3)

where f = [1 + exp (E/k_(B)T)]⁻¹ is the Fermi function, φ is the angle
along the Fermi surface, and Δ_(i)(T, φ) = Δ_(0, i)δ(T/T_(c))g(φ). The
temperature dependence of the gap is approximated by the expression
δ(T/T_(c)) = tanh [1.82[1.018(T_(c)/T − 1)]^(0.51)] while g(φ) describes
the angular dependence of the gap and is replaced by 1 for both an
s-wave and an s + s-wave gap, and |cos (2φ)| for a d-wave gap.[12; 13]

The temperature dependence of the penetration depth can then be fitted
using either a single gap or a two-gap model which are structured on the
basis of the α model,[14; 15]

$$\frac{\lambda^{-2}(T)}{\lambda^{-2}(0)}=\omega_{1}\frac{\lambda^{-2}(T,\Delta _{0,1})}{\lambda^{-2}(0,\Delta_{0,1})}+\omega_{2}\frac{\lambda^{-2}(T,\Delta_ {0,2})}{\lambda^{-2}(0,\Delta_{0,2})},$$
(4)

where λ⁻²(0) is the penetration depth at zero temperature, Δ_(0, i) is
the value of the ith (i = 1 or 2) superconducting gap at T = 0 K, and
ω_(i) is a weighting factor with ω₁ + ω₂ = 1.

Fits to the data using the three different models are shown in Fig. 4.
The fits appear to rule out the s-wave and d-wave models as possible
descriptions for Lu₂Fe₃Si₅ as the χ² values for these models are 33.92
and 15.91, respectively. The two-gap s + s-wave model gives a good fit
to the data with a χ² of 1.94. The two-gap s + s-wave model gives
Δ_(0, 1)/k_(B)T_(c) = 1.76(6) and Δ_(0, 2)/k_(B)T_(c) = 0.40(1) with
ω₁ = 0.35(1). The ratio of the larger to the smaller gap,
$\frac{\Delta_{0,1}}{\Delta_{0,2}}\approx 4.40$, which is consistent
with the value 5 obtained by low-temperature specific-heat
measurement,[5] and the value 3.44 obtained by penetration depth
measurement using the tunnel-diode resonator technique[16] on a single
crystal of Lu₂Fe₃Si₅. The magnetic penetration depth at T = 0 K is

Figure 2: (Color online) The transverse-field muon time spectra (one
component) for Lu₂Fe₃Si₅ collected (a) at T = 6.5 K and (b) at T = 0.3 K
in a magnetic field μ₀H = 30 mT.

Figure 1: (Color online) The temperature dependence of the dc magnetic
susceptibility of Lu₂Fe₃Si₅ measured using both zero-field-cooled
warming (ZFCW) and field-cooled cooling (FCC). The diamagnetic
susceptibility shows a T_(c) onset of 6.1 K.

found to be λ(0) = 353(1) nm. The in-plane penetration depth is 200 nm,
obtained by tunnel-diode resonator technique.[16]

We have also performed low-temperature specific-heat measurements on
Lu₂Fe₃Si₅ which support the assertion that Lu₂Fe₃Si₅ is a two-gap
superconductor. Figure 5 shows the specific heat divided by temperature
(C/T) as a function of T² for the same polycrystalline sample of
Lu₂Fe₃Si₅ used for the μSR study. A pronounced jump in the specific heat
is observed at 6.1 K which indicates that the sample exhibits bulk
superconductivity. The normal-state heat capacity has been fitted up to
12 K by C = γ T + β T³ + α T⁵, where γ T is the electronic contribution
and β T³ + α T⁵ represents the lattice contribution to the specific
heat. We obtained fitted parameters γ = 24.9 mJ/mol K², β = 0.247 mJ/mol
K⁴, and α = 5.38 × 10⁻⁴ mJ/mol K⁶, which are consistent with the
reported values for both polycrystalline[17, 18, 19] and single-crystal
samples.[5] We observed a sizable residual specific-heat coefficient,
γ_(∘) = 7.21 mJ/mol K², at T = 0 K. Interestingly, a finite residual
specific-heat coefficient has also been observed in a polycrystalline
sample of the same system[19] whereas it is absent in data for a single
crystal.[5] A similar effect has also been reported in
Ba_(0.6)K_(0.4)Fe₂As₂ (γ_(∘) = 7.7 mJ/mol K²), Ba(Fe_(1 − x)Co_(x))₂As₂
(γ_(∘) = 3.0 mJ/mol K²) and Ba(Fe_(0.92)Co_(0.08))₂As₂ (γ_(∘) = 3.7
mJ/mol K²).[20, 21, 22] Possible explanations for this residual
specific-heat coefficient involve pair breaking effects of an
unconventional superconductor,[23] spin-glass behavior, or
crystallographic defects.[22] Given the metallurgy of our
polycrystalline sample and the dramatic effects that annealing has on
the electronic properties, we suggest that crystallographic defects are
the most likely cause of the residual specific-heat coefficient in
heat-capacity data.

We have calculated the normalized electronic specific heat C_(e)/γ T by
subtracting the lattice contribution from the total heat capacity and
then renormalizing by (γ − γ_(∘)). For more details, see Refs. [22] and
[24]. Figure 6 shows the temperature dependence of the normalized
electronic specific heat, C_(e)/γ T, for Lu₂Fe₃Si₅ as a function of
T/T_(c). We find two clear anomalies in the data which show that
Lu₂Fe₃Si₅ has two energy gaps. A large jump appears at T_(c) and a
smaller one at T_(c)/5. The value of C_(e)/γ T at T_(c) is found to be
1.13(1) meV, which is much smaller than the BCS value of

Figure 4: (Color online) The temperature dependence of the London
penetration depth as a function of temperature for Lu₂Fe₃Si₅. The solid
line is a two-gap s + s-wave fit to the data while the dashed and dotted
lines represent the d-wave and s-wave fits, respectively.

Figure 5: (Color online) The specific heat divided by temperature (C/T)
as a function of T² for Lu₂Fe₃Si₅. The dashed line shows the fit to the
data in the normal state.

Figure 3: (Color online) (a) The temperature dependence (on a log scale)
of the superconducting muon spin depolarization rate σ_(κ) collected in
an applied magnetic field μ₀H = 30 mT. (b) Superconducting Gaussian
depolarization rate σ_(κ) versus applied magnetic field for Lu₂Fe₃Si₅
collected below T_(c) at 0.3, 2.0, 2.5, 3.0, and 4.0 K.

1.43 meV but consistent with the value of 1.05 meV measured on a single
crystal [5] and also agrees well with the reported values for
polycrystalline samples. [17, 18, 19] To perform a two-gap fit to the
C_(x)/γ T data in the superconducting state, we use the BCS expressions
for the normalized entropy S and the specific heat,

$$\frac{S}{\gamma_{n}\,T_{c}}=-\frac{6}{\pi^{2}}\frac{\Delta_{0}}{k_ {B}\,T_{c}}\int_{0}^{\infty}[f\,\ln f+(1-f)\ln(1-f)]\,dy,$$
(5)
$$\frac{C}{\gamma_{n}\,T_{c}}=t\frac{d(S/\gamma_{n}\,T_{c})}{dt},$$
(6)

where t = T/T_(c), E = [ϵ² + Δ²(t)], and y = ϵ/Δ. The temperature
dependence of the energy gap varies as Δ(t) = Δ₀δ(t), where δ(t) is the
normalized BCS gap. [25] The solid line in Fig. 6 is a two-gap fit to
the data, with Δ₁/k_(B) T_(c) = 2.13(3) and Δ₂/k_(B)T_(c) = 0.51(1). The
weighting factor, ω₁ = 0.54, is slightly larger than the value obtained
from fits to the μSR data. The good agreement between the experimental
heat-capacity data and the two-gap model argues in favor of the presence
of two distinct superconducting gaps in Lu₂Fe₃Si₅. The ratio of the two
gaps, $\frac{\Delta_{1}}{\Delta_{2}}=4.18$, is close to the 4.40
obtained from the μSR measurements on the same sample and is also
consistent with the published data on Lu₂Fe₃Si₅. [17, 18, 19, 17] The
quantitative discrepancy between the gap magnitudes calculated from the
μSR and the specific-heat studies may be due to a coupling between the
two bands that cannot be accounted for using the simple two-gap model
adopted here. Kogan _et al._[26] recently presented a self-consistent
calculation of the heat capacity of a two-band s-wave superconductor in
the clean limit with one interband and two intraband pairing potentials.
This model was tested with experimental data collected on the well-known
two-band superconductors MgB₂ and V₃Si. A more sophisticated analysis
using such a self-consistent model may be required to fully understand
the two-band superconducting behavior in Lu₂Fe₃Si₅.

## IV Summary

We have performed a μSR study on a polycrystalline sample of Lu₂Fe₃Si₅.
The temperature dependence of the magnetic penetration depth data was
fitted with three different models. A two-gap s + s-wave model provides
the best fit to the data. Low-temperature specific-heat measurements on
the same sample confirm the presence of two distinct superconducting
gaps. These results are consistent with other reported data for this
system. [5, 16, 17, 18, 19]

###### Acknowledgements.

P.K.B. would like to thank the Midlands Physics Alliance Graduate School
(MPAGS) for sponsorship. The Quantum Design MPMS magnetometer used in
this research was obtained through the Science City Advanced Materials
project "Creating and Characterizing Next Generation Advanced
Materials," with support from Advantage West Midlands (AWM), and part
funded by the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF).

## References

* [1] J. Nagamatsu, N. Nakagawa, T. Muranaka, Y. Zenitani, and J.
Akimitsu, Nature (London) **410**, 63 (2001). * [2] H. Braun, Phys.
Lett. A **75**, 386 (1980). * [3] C. U. Segre and H. F. Braun, Phys.
Lett. A **85**, 372 (1981). * [4] A. M. Umarji, S. K. Malik, and G. K.
Shenoy, J. Appl. Phys. **57**, 3118 (1985). * [5] Y. Nakajima, T.
Nakagawa, T. Tamegai, and H. Harima, Phys. Rev. Lett. **100**, 157001
(2008). * [6] B. Chabot and E. Parthe, J. Less-Common Met. **97**, 285
(1984). * [7] J. E. Sonier, J. H. Brewer, and R. F. Kiefl, Rev. Mod.
Phys. **72**, 769 (2000). * [8] E. H. Brandt, Phys. Rev. B **37**, 2349
(1988). * [9] T. Tamegai, Y. Nakajima, T. Nakagawa, G. Li, and H.
Harima, Sci. Technol. Adv. Mater. **9**, 044206 (2008). * [10] M.
Tinkham, _Introduction to Superconductivity_ (McGraw-Hill, New York,
1975). * [11] R. Prozorov and R. W. Giannetta, Supercond. Sci. Technol.
**19**, R41 (2006). * [12] M. H. Fang, H. M. Pham, B. Qian, T. J. Liu,
E. K. Vehstedt, Y. Liu, L. Spinu, and Z. Q. Mao, Phys. Rev. B **78**,
224503 (2008). * [13] The normalized χ² values, resulting from our
least-squares fits to the temperature dependence of χ⁻² using different
models for the gap, are used as criteria to determine which model best
describes the data. * [14] A. Carrington and F. Manzano, Physica C
**385**, 205 (2003). * [15] H. Padamsee, J. E. Neighbor, and C. A.
Shiffman, J. Low Temp. Phys. **12**, 387 (1973). * [16] R. T. Gordon, M.
D. Vannette, C. Martin, Y. Nakajima, T. Tamegai, and R. Prozorov, Phys.
Rev. B **78**, 024514 (2008). * [17] C. B. Vining, R. N. Shelton, H. F.
Braun, and M. Pelizzone, Phys. Rev. B **27**, 2800 (1983). * [18] G. R.
Stewart, G. P. Meisner, and C. U. Segre, J. Low Temp. Phys. **59**, 237
(1985). * [19] T. Tamegai, T. Nakagawa, and M. Tokunaga, Physica C
**460-462**, 708 (2007).

Figure 6: (Color online) The temperature dependence of the normalized
electronic specific heat as a function of T/T_(c) for Lu₃Fe₃Si₅. The
solid line is a two-gap fit to the data.

* (20) G. Mu, H. Luo, Z. Wang, L. Shan, C. Ren, and H.-H. Wen, Phys.
Rev. B **79**, 174501 (2009). * (21) G. Mu, B. Zeng, P. Cheng, Z. Wang,
L. Fang, B. Shen, L. Shan, C. Ren, and H. Wen, Chin. Phys. Lett. **27**,
037402 (2010). * (22) K. Gofryk, A. S. Sefat, E. D. Bauer, M. A.
McGuire, B. C. Sales, D. Mandrus, J. D. Thompson, and F. Ronning, New J.
Phys. **12**, 023006 (2010). * (23) C. Kubert and P. J. Hirschfeld,
Solid State Commun. **105**, 459 (1998). * (24) F. Hardy, T. Wolf, R. A.
Fisher, R. Eder, P. Schweiss, P. Adelmann, H. v. Lohneysen, and C.
Meingast, Phys. Rev. B **81**, 060501 (2010). * (25) B. Muhlschlegel, Z.
Phys. **155**, 313 (1959). * (26) V. G. Kogan, C. Martin, and R.
Prozorov, Phys. Rev. B **80**, 014507 (2009).
