Pressure effects on the superconductivity of the HfPd₂Al Heusler
compound: Experimental and theoretical study

B. Wiendlocha

wiendlocha@fis.agh.edu.pl AGH University of Science and Technology,
Faculty of Physics and Applied Computer Science, Aleja Mickiewicza 30,
30-059 Krakow, Poland

M. J. Winiarski

Faculty of Applied Physics and Mathematics, Gdansk University of
Technology, Naratuwicza 11/12, 80-233 Gdansk, Poland

M. Muras

AGH University of Science and Technology, Faculty of Physics and Applied
Computer Science, Aleja Mickiewicza 30, 30-059 Krakow, Poland

C. Zvoriste-Walters

European Commission, Joint Research Centre (JRC), Institute for
Transuranium Elements (ITU), Postfach 2340, 76125 Karlsruhe, Germany

J.-C. Griveau

Grupen Commission, Joint Research Centre (JRC), Institute for
Transuranium Elements (ITU), Postfach 2340, 76125 Karlsruhe, Germany

S. Heathman

Grupen Commission, Joint Research Centre (JRC), Institute for
Transuranium Elements (ITU), Postfach 2340, 76125 Karlsruhe, Germany

M. Gazda

Faculty of Applied Physics and Mathematics, Gdansk University of
Technology, Naratuwicza 11/12, 80-233 Gdansk, Poland

T. Klimczuk

tomasz.klimczuk@pg.gda.pl European Commission, Joint Research Centre
(JRC), Institute for Transuranium Elements (ITU), Postfach 2340, 76125
Karlsruhe, Germany

###### Abstract

Polycrystalline Hf Pd₂Al has been synthesized using the arc-melting
method and studied under ambient-pressure conditions by x-ray
diffraction from room temperature up to 450 degC. High-pressure x-ray
diffraction up to 23 GPa was also performed using Diacell-type membrane
diamond anvil cells. The estimated linear thermal expansion coefficient
was found to be α = 1.40(3) × 10⁻⁵ K⁻¹, and the bulk modulus derived
from the fit to the third-order Birch-Mumaghan equation of state is
B₀ = 97(2) GPa. Resistivity studies under applied pressure (p ≤ 7.49
GPa) showed a linear decrease of superconducting critical temperature
with increasing pressure and the slope dTc_(c)/dp = −0.13(1) K GPa⁻¹.
The same behavior is observed for the electron-phonon coupling constant
$\lambda_{\rm ep}(p)$ that changes from 0.67 to 0.6, estimated for
p = 0.05 and 7.49 GPa, respectively. First-principles electronic
structure and phonon calculation results are presented and used to
estimate the magnitude of electron-phonon interaction $\lambda_{\rm ep}$
and its evolution with pressure. Theoretical results explain the
experimentally observed decrease in Tc due to considerable lattice
stiffening.

2014 10.1103/PhysRevB.91.024509 2015 15 October 2014; revised manuscript
received 23 December 2014; published 16 January 2015

## I Introduction

The Heusler group of alloys, discovered 100 years ago by Friedrich
Heusler [1], are well-ordered, ternary intermetallic compounds of
general composition AT₂M, where A is generally a transition metal, T is
a transition metal from group VIIIB-IB, and M is typically a sp metal or
metalloid (Sb, Bi). A prototype material of this group, MnCu₂Al, was the
first ferromagnetic alloy not to contain any ferromagnetic elements.
More than 100 Heusler alloys are known to date [2], showing a variety of
interesting physical properties, such as shape memory effect [3, 4],
magnetic ordering [5, 6], half-metallic ferromagnetism [7], or heavy
fermion behavior [8, 9, 10, 11, 12], which makes them an interesting
group of materials for research and applications. There are also nearly
30 known Heusler superconductors with critical temperatures in the range
of a few kelvins [2, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20], most of them
having rare-earth atoms in the A position [7]. In two of them, YbPd₂Sn
[16] and ErPd₂Sn [18], superconductivity and magnetic ordering
(antiferromagnetism) coexist. Therefore, Heusler alloys belong to a rare
class of materials bridging superconducting and magnetically ordered
compounds.

In this paper we present studies on the pressure dependence of the
critical temperature in HfPd₂Al, which were inspired by a previous
finding that in cubic Heusler phase series Hf Pd₂Al, Hf Pd₂In, ZrPd₂Al,
and ZrPd₂In [(Hf, Zr)Pd₂(In, Al)] the critical temperature increases
with decreasing lattice parameter a. Another studied family of
compounds, YPd₂Sn, LuPd₂Sn, and ScPd₂Sn [(Y, Lu, Sc)Pd₂Sn], showed
inverse behavior–Tc increased with increasing a (Ref. [2]). Pressure
effects on superconductivity were previously studied in _RE_Pd₂(Sn, Pb)
alloys (RE = Sc, Y, Tm, Yb, and Lu) and revealed linear decreases of Tc
with applied pressure [15]. Negative change under pressure
(dTc_(c)/dp < 0) was also observed in other groups of superconductors
(see, e.g., Ref. [21]).

The goal of this study was to check if a further decrease in lattice
parameter in group (Hf, Zr)Pd₂(In, Al) would lead to higher critical
temperatures. The highest Tc (and the lowest a) value in this group is
reported for HfPd₂Al (3.7 K) [2], and therefore this compound was chosen
for studies under applied pressure.

In order to analyze and better understand the experimental results,
theoretical studies were undertaken. Using the density functional
theory, electronic structure and phonon calculations were performed, and
the magnitude of the electron-phonon coupling (EPC) was studied as a
function of external pressure. The theoretical results explain
qualitatively well the pressure-induced modifications of the EPC
constant $\lambda_{\rm ep}$ and critical temperature Tc.

## II Methods

Polycrystalline samples of Hf Pd₂Al were synthesized by arc-melting
stoichiometric amounts of the elements (Hf 99.5

The purity of the product was verified by powder x-ray diffraction
(PXRD) using a Philips X^(′)pert Pro MPD with Cu Kα radiation. The
high-temperature PXRD patterns were collected up to 450 degC in air and
a lattice parameter for Hf Pd₂Al at different temperatures was refined
by means of the Rietveld method [22] using the fullprof 5.30 program
[23]. Above approximately 450 degC the sample oxidized and therefore
collection of the XRD diffraction pattern above this temperature was not
continued.

The high-pressure study was performed by means of _in situ_ x-ray
diffraction. Pressure was determined using the ruby scale [24] and
silicone oil was used as pressure-transmitting medium for all
experiments. The sample was loaded into Diacell-type membrane diamond
anvil cells (MDACs) with 500-μm culet size using preindented Re gaskets
with 200-μm-diameter holes. High-pressure x-ray diffraction was
performed using a modified Bruker D8 x-ray diffractometer with focusing
mirror optics installed on a molybdenum rotating anode source (MoKα₁),λ
= 0.709 26 A,100 x 100 μm², coupled with a Bruker SMART Apex II
charged-coupled device (CCD). The MDACs were rotated through a sample
angle ΔΩ = ±2deg while collecting each diffraction image. The sample to
CCD distance and CCD nonorthogonality correction were calibrated using
powder diffraction data from a LaB₆ standard and the recorded
diffraction images were integrated using the ESRF Ht2d software [25].

A polycrystalline sample of Hf Pd₂Al was extracted from the batch and
polished down to thickness of 20 μm. Average dimensions of the sample
were therefore 750 x 100 x 20 μm³. The electrical resistance of the
sample was measured by a four-probe dc technique with the sample and a
thin foil of lead used as a manometer [26] held in a pyrophyllite gasket
with a solid pressure-transmitting medium of steatite. The
external-pressure device was a piston-cylinder system made of
nonmagnetic CuBe, with the pressure generated by two 3.5-mm-diameter
anvils made of low-magnetic tungsten carbide and sintered diamonds. To
avoid any heating effect which would modify the T_(c) determination the
applied current was relatively low (0.5 mA). Pressure was changed at
room temperature and quasihydrostatic conditions were observed during
the whole experiment.

Electronic structure calculations were performed using the
Korringa-Kohn-Rostoker (KKR) method [27]. Using the so-called rigid
muffin-tin approximation (RMTA) [28] the electronic part of the EPC
constant, i.e., McMillan-Hopfield parameters η[29, 30] for each i atom
in the unit cell were calculated [31]:

$$\eta_{i} = \sum_{l}\frac{(2l+2)n_{l}(E_{F})n_{l+1}(E_{F})}{(2l+1)(2l+3)n(E_{ F})}$$
(1)
$$\times \left|\int_{0}^{R_{\text{MT}}}r^{2}R_{l}(r)\frac{dV}{dr}\,R_{l+1} dr\right|^{2},$$

where l is the angular momentum number, n_(l)(E_(F)) are l-decomposed
densities of states (DOS) at the Fermi level at atom i, n(E_(F)) is the
total DOS at E_(F) per primitive cell (DOS are given per spin), R_(l)(r)
are normalized radial wave functions, and R_(MT) is the muffin-tin
radius (for discussion and examples of application of RMTA see Refs.
[30, 31, 32, 33, 34], and references therein). The crystal potential was
constructed in the framework of the local density approximation, using
the von Barth and Hedin [35] formula for the exchange-correlation part.
As required by RMTA, spherical muffin-tin potential was used, and
semirelativistic calculation results are presented here. The validity of
spherical potential and semirelativistic approximations was verified by
comparing the density of states curve to additionally calculated DOS
obtained from the full potential full relativistic KKR method [36], and
no significant differences were found (e.g., the total DOS at the Fermi
level was 34 Ry⁻¹/f.u. versus 31 Ry⁻¹/f.u. from semirelativistic
muffin-tin calculations). The maximal angular momentum l_(max) = 4 was
set for all the constituent atoms; calculations were done on a dense
k-point mesh (up to 1800 points in the irreducible part of the Brillouin
zone). The electronic structure was calculated using the experimental
crystal structure and lattice parameters, for several external-pressure
values from 0 to 7.5 GPa (i.e., the range where T_(c) was measured).

Phonon calculations were done using the plane-wave pseudopotential
method, as implemented in the quantum espresso package [37]. Projector
augmented-wave (PAW) pseudopotentials were used, with the generalized
gradient approximation (GGA) exchange-correlation functional of Perdew,
Burke, and Ernzerhof (Perdew _et al._[38]). Wave function and charge
density cutoffs were set to 48 and 480 Ry, respectively, and a k-point
mesh of 18 x 18 x 18 points in the Brillouin zone was used. The lattice
constant relaxation calculations for each pressure were done as a first
step, whereby the value for the zero pressure was found to be 6.418 A,
in good agreement with the experimental value of 6.367 A (see below).
For the optimized unit cells, the interatomic force constants were
obtained by Fourier transformation of the dynamical matrices calculated
on a 4 x 4 x 4 q-point grid. The phonon DOS was calculated using the
tetrahedron integration method and phonon frequencies recalculated to
the 10 x 10 x 10 q-point mesh. The partial (atomic) phonon DOS were
obtained using the qHA package [39].

The combined electronic structure and phonon calculation results were
used to calculate the electron-phonon coupling constant λ_(ep) and the
superconducting critical temperature, as a function of external
pressure.

## III Results and Discussion

### Experiment

The HfPd₂Al as-cast sample was first characterized at room temperature
using the powder x-ray diffraction (PXRD) technique. The PXRD confirmed
a good quality sample with a very small amount (less than 5

In addition to the PXRD studies, the high-pressure behavior of Hf Pd₂Al
has been investigated up to 23 GPa by x-ray diffraction as described in
Sec. II. The compression data V/V₀ as a function of pressure is shown in
Fig. 2. In order to determine the bulk modulus B₀ and its pressure
derivative (B₀^(′)) the data were fitted to the third-order
Birch-Murnaghan equation of state (BMEOS) [42],

$$P=3B_{0}f(1+2f)^{5/2}\times\left[1+\tfrac{3}{2}(B^{\prime}_{0}-4)f\right],$$
(2)

with $f=\tfrac{1}{2}[(V_{0}/V)^{2/0}-1]$, which yielded B₀ = 97(2) GPa
and B₀^(′) = 8.5(5). The extrapolated cell parameter value at ambient
conditions (room pressure) was found to be 6.3712(35) A.

Figure 3(a) presents the temperature dependence of the heat capacity
divided by temperature (C_(p)/T) near the superconducting transition. A
sharp anomaly at T_(c) = 3.53 K confirms the bulk nature of the
superconductivity and the good quality of the tested Hf Pd₂Al sample.
The T² dependence of C_(p)/T, measured at a magnetic field of μ₀H = 3 T,
which exceeds H_(c2), is shown in Fig. 3(b). A curve through the data
points shows the fit of C_(p)/T = γ^(′) + βT² + δT⁴ in the temperature
range 2 K < T < 5 K. The fit reveals a Sommerfeld coefficient γ = 7.6(3)
mJ mol⁻¹ K⁻² and Debye temperature Θ_(D) = 177(3) K (where
$\beta=\tfrac{12\pi^{2}\lambda_{\mathrm{ep}}}{5\Theta_{D}}$ and N = 4 is
the number of atoms per formula unit). Knowing the γ value, one can
calculate the specific heat jump ΔC/γT_(c) = 1.59 which is very close to
the value reported in Ref. [2]ΔC/γT_(c) = 1.5. A logarithmic averaged
phonon frequency can be determined from
$\tfrac{\Delta C}{\gamma T_{c}}=1.43[1+53(\tfrac{T_{c}}{\alpha_{\mathrm{bg}}})^{ 2}\ln(\tfrac{\alpha_{\mathrm{bg}}}{3T_{c}})]$
and for Hf Pd₂Al we obtained α_(bg) = 120 K. The electron-phonon
coupling constant λ_(ep) can also be estimated from the inverted Allen
and Dynes equation for T_(c)[43] [see Eq. (9)]:

$$\lambda_{\mathrm{ep}}=\frac{1.04+\mu^{*}\ln(\alpha_{\mathrm{bg}}/1.2~{}T_{c}) }{(1-0.62\mu^{*})\ln(\omega_{\mathrm{bg}}/1.2T_{c})-1.04}.$$
(3)

Taking T_(c) = 3.53 K, ω_(bg) = 120 K, and a Coulomb repulsion constant
μ^(*) = 0.1, we obtained λ_(ep) = 0.657 which confirms that Hf Pd₂Al is
a moderately coupled superconductor. Note that the Allen-Dynes prefactor
ω_(bg)/1.2 in T_(c) Eq. (9) was originally fitted [43] using a lower
value of the Coulomb pseudopotential parameter, μ^(*) = 0.1, than the
"standard" McMillan’s μ^(*) = 0.13 (see also Ref. [44]), so we
consequently used μ^(*) = 0.1 whenever Eq. (3) or Eq. (9) was used;
otherwise Eq. (9) underestimates the T_(c) comparing to McMillans
equation.

The superconducting transition was further examined through
temperature-dependent measurements of the electrical resistivity under
applied pressure from p = 0 to 7.49 GPa. Normalized resistivity ρ(T)/ρ(4
K) is shown in Figs. 4(a) and 4(b). As can be seen from Fig. 4(a), under
ambient pressure the superconducting transition is sharp and
T_(c) = 3.55 K. This value is in very good agreement with the T_(c)
determined from heat capacity measurements, and slightly lower than
reported in Ref. [2]. A slightly higher T_(c) and a much broader
transition is observed for Hf Pd₂Al under applied pressure [see Fig.
4(b)]. The first effect is likely caused by decreased electrical current
(I = 0.5 mA) used during measurements reducing the Ohm effect in the
sample while the second one is due to quasidydostatic-pressure
conditions of the solid transmitting medium. The superconducting
critical temperature, T_(c), was defined as the temperature at which
R(T)/R(4 K) = 0.5. These data correspond to the open circles in Fig.
4(c) that presents the pressure dependence of T_(c)(p). The
superconducting critical temperature monotonically decreases with the
pressure increase and the slope dT_(c)/dp = −0.13(1) K GPa⁻¹. Neglecting
the potential influence of applied pressure on a logarithmic averaged
phonon frequency (discussed in the theoretical part), we took
ω_(bg) = 120 K and calculated the electron-phonon coupling constant
(λ_(ep)) for each value of applied pressure by using Eq. (3). As can be
seen from Fig. 4(d), λ_(ep)(p) decreases linearly from approximately
0.67 to 0.6, estimated for p = 0.05 and 7.49 GPa, respectively.

The electron-phonon coupling may also be estimated from the inverted
McMillan formula [29]:

$$\lambda_{\mathrm{ep}}=\frac{1.04+\mu^{*}\ln\left(\tfrac{\theta_{D}}{1.45T_{c} }\right)}{\left(1-0.62\mu^{*}\right)\ln\left(\tfrac{\theta_{D}}{1.45T_{c}} \right)-1.04}.$$
(4)

For ambient pressure, T_(c) = 3.55 K and Θ_(D) = 177 K, we obtained
λ_(ep) = 0.68 and 0.61 for μ^(*) = 0.13 and 0.1, respectively [45].
These values are very close to λ_(ep) = 0.65

Figure 2: (Color online) Variation of relative volume with pressure for
Hf Pd₂Al. The blue curve is the fit to the third-order Birch-Murnaghan
EOS (BMEOS). For more details see text.

Figure 1: (Color online) Relative change of the a lattice parameter of
Hf Pd₂Al with increasing temperature. The data were estimated by the Le
Bail method using the fullprof package. Inset shows a clear shift of the
(422) Bragg peak of Hf Pd₂Al towards lower angles as temperature is
increased.

based on the heat capacity measurement and Allen-Dynes formula.

### Theory

The electron-phonon coupling parameter, $\lambda_{\rm ep}$, can be
approximately calculated using the formula [31]

$$\lambda_{\rm ep}=\sum_{i}\frac{\eta_{i}}{M_{i}\langle\omega_{i}{}^{2}\rangle},$$
(5)

where η_(i) is the McMillan-Hopfield parameter of the ith atom in the
unit cell, with mass M_(i) and average square phonon frequency
⟨ω_(i)²⟩ = ∫oF(o)dω/∫o⁻¹F(o)dω, and F(o) is the phonon DOS. In this way
$\lambda_{\rm ep}$ is a sum of the contributions from each atom’s
sublattice (in our case these are Hf, Pd with two atoms, and Al).

The pressure dependence of T_(c) is mainly determined by the pressure
dependence of $\lambda_{\rm ep}$ (the increase in $\omega_{\rm op}$ or
$\Theta_{\rm D}$ under pressure is less important). In multiatomic
crystals, for each of the sublattices (or for the monoatomic system),
this is controlled by the ratio of electronic and phonon contributions,
η_(i) and ⟨ω_(i)²⟩. Since ⟨ω_(i)²⟩ describes stiffness of the lattice
and is expected to increase with pressure, the change of the
McMillan-Hopfield parameter η_(i) is the key factor determining the
response of superconductor to external pressure. For each sublattice we
may calculate the logarithmic derivative:

$$\frac{d\ln\lambda_{i}}{dP}=-\frac{1}{\bar{B}}\left(\frac{d\ln\eta_{i}}{d\ln V} -\frac{d\ln\langle\omega_{i}{}^{2}\rangle}{d\ln V}\right),$$
(6)

where P is pressure, V is the unit cell volume, and B̄ is the bulk
modulus defined by the simplified volume-pressure dependence equation
V(P) = V₀exp (−P/B̄), used to convert the pressure derivative into the
volume one. To avoid confusion with the bulk modulus determined from the
Birch-Murnaghan EOS [Eq. (2)], the symbol B̄ is used here. In the
pressure range 0-7.5 GPa the fit of the experimental V(P) data to this
equation gives B̄ ≈ 124 GPa; however, its value is not important for the
sign of the pressure dependence of $\lambda_{\rm ep}$, which we analyze
here.

Figure 4: (Color online) Normalized electrical resisitivity under
ambient pressure (a) and various applied pressures (b) of Hf Pd₂Al.
Pressure dependence of the superconducting critical temperature (c) and
electron-phonon coupling parameter (d).

Figure 3: (Color online) (a) Temperature dependence of heat capacity
divided by temperature (C_(p)/T) of Hf Pd₂Al measured in zero magnetic
field in the vicinity of the superconducting transition. (b) C_(p)/T
versus T² measured in μ₀H = 3 T. The red curve is a fit of
C_(p)/T = γ + βT² + δT⁴.

Now, defining the average Gruneisen parameter as

$$\gamma_{G}=-\frac{d\ln\langle\omega\rangle}{d\ln V}\approx-\frac{1}{2}\frac{d\ln \langle\omega^{2}\rangle}{d\ln V},$$
(7)

the simple rule can be obtained for the pressure effect on EPC. λ_(i)
decreases with pressure as long as the term in brackets in Eq. (6) is
positive, i.e., when $\frac{d\ln\eta_{i}}{d\ln V}>-2\gamma_{G}^{i}$.
Since $\frac{d\ln\eta_{i}}{d\ln V}$ is usually negative [31, 46] and
γ_(G) positive, it is convenient to write it as

$$-\frac{d\ln\eta_{i}}{d\ln V}<2\gamma_{G}^{i};$$
(8)

i.e., behavior of λ_(i) with pressure is determined by the magnitude of
the Gruneisen parameter and logarithmic derivative of the
McMillan-Hopfield parameter. λ_(i) decreases if the increase of η_(i)
with decreasing unit cell volume is slower than the lattice stiffening,
described by the double γ_(G) parameter of the sublattice i.

The electronic structure and phonon calculations were undertaken to
verify whether T_(c) and its pressure dependence in Hf Pd₂Al can be
described within this conventional scenario. Figure 5, top panel, shows
the electronic density of states of Hf Pd₂Al at ambient pressure, with
partial atomic densities marked by colors. Bottom panel of Fig. 5
compares DOS near the Fermi level for 0 and 7.45 GPa external pressures.
The highest contribution to the DOS near E_(F) comes from the two Pd
atoms’ 4d states. The corresponding electronic bands are plotted for the
same set of pressures in Fig. 6. As was pointed out in Ref. [40], the
Fermi level in this family of Heusler compounds lies between van Hove
singularities, with the closest singularity located at the L point,
which is shown well in Fig. 6. Upon applying external pressure, the
location of this singularity remains almost unchanged. Table 1 presents
the computed electronic structure parameters of Hf Pd₂Al. The Hf and Pd
atoms contribute equally to the density of states at E_(F), if counting
per atom, with a minor contribution from Al. As pressure increases, due
to the increased hybridization, values of n(E_(F)) slightly decrease.
The McMillan-Hopfield η_(i) parameter is highest for the Pd atom, with a
dominating contribution from the d-f scattering channel, as typical for
the transition-metal element [31, 47]. A slightly smaller value of η_(i)
is found on Hf, and here p-d and d-f contributions are equally
important. When the unit cell volume decreases, η_(i) for Hf and Pd are
increasing, as a result of the increase in the matrix element of the
potential gradient between the radial wave functions of l and l+1 type
[see Eq. (1)]. The opposite tendency is found for Al–here η_(i) is
gradually decreasing with pressure. The modifications of η_(i) in the
pressure range 0-7.45 GPa are plotted in Fig. 7, and the slopes of the
logarithmic derivatives versus volume of the primitive cell (V),
$\frac{d\ln\eta_{i}}{d\ln V}$, calculated by linear fitting of the
lnη_(i) versus lnV, are reported in Table 2, and are described later.

The phonon densities of states and phonon dispersions are shown in Figs.
8 and 9, respectively, with the partial atomic DOS plotted in colors in
Fig. 8. Due to large differences in atomic masses
($M_{\rm Hf}\approx$178 u, $M_{\rm Pd}\approx$ 106 u,
$M_{\rm Al}\approx$ 27 u), a gap in the phonon spectrum is formed, with
the high-frequency range due to aluminum oscillations. Although hafnium
is heavier than palladium, it seems from our calculations that the
densities of states around the frequency of 4 THz have larger
populations for this atom, resulting in smaller ⟨ω_(i)²⟩. When pressure
is increased to 7.45 GPa, the vibration spectrum moves towards higher
frequencies as also observed in the phonon dispersions plot. Generally,
the phonon dispersions are only shifted towards higher frequencies with
pressure, except for the lowest acoustic mode in the K-Γ direction. We
observe the softening of this mode, with the minimum value deep elastics
from 0.7 THz at P = 0 GPa to 0.626 THz for P = 7.45 GPa. This suggests
the possibility of a structural transition of Hf Pd₂Al at higher
pressures. Also, similar soft-mode behavior, but already evident at
ambient pressure, as indicated by the imaginary frequency around the
minimum point, was previously reported in Ref. [40] from calculations in
the isoelectronic compound ZrPd₂Al. Thus the observed soft-mode behavior
may be a more general property of this group of Heusler alloys. Phonon
anomalies were also recently observed in superconducting YPd₂Sn Heusler
compound [48].

Now returning to the analysis of electron-phonon coupling, the average
square phonon frequencies, calculated using partial phonon densities for
0 and 7.45 GPa, are collected in Table 1. Using these values and
corresponding McMillan-Hopfield parameters, the atomic contributions,
λ_(i), to the electron-phonon coupling constant, $\lambda_{\rm ep}$, are
calculated and presented in that table. The λ_(i) coefficient calculated
per atom in the unit cell is greatest for palladium, being more than
twice the value

Figure 5: (Color online) Top panel: Electronic density of states for Hf
Pd₂Al at ambient pressure. Bottom panel: Comparison of DOS near the
Fermi level for 0 and 7.45 GPa external pressures. Color lines show the
atomic partial DOS (per atom).

for hafnium. Together with the fact that there are two Pd atoms in the
primitive cell of Hf Pd₂Al, the electron-phonon coupling value is mainly
the effect of interaction between electrons and phonons on palladium
atoms. The aluminum contribution to the total EPC is found to be
negligible. The calculated values of total λ_(sp), average phonon
frequency, and critical temperature T_(c) as a function of pressure for
four pressure values (0, 2.53, 4.50, and 7.45 GPa) are collected in
Table 3. Critical temperature is calculated from the Allen-Dynes formula
[43]:

$$T_{c}=\frac{\omega_{\text{bg}}}{1.20}\exp\left[\frac{-1.04(1+\lambda_{\text{ sp}})}{\lambda-\mu^{*}(1+0.62\lambda_{\text{sp}})}\right],$$
(9)

where

$$\omega_{\text{bg}}=\exp\left[\frac{\int F\left(o\right)\ln\omega\frac{d\omega} {\omega}}{\int F\left(o\right)\frac{d\omega}{\omega}}\right].$$
(10)

Table 2: First row: slope of the logarithmic derivative of the
McMillan-Hopfield parameters versus volume of the primitive cell (V),
calculated by linear fitting of ln η_(i) versus ln V. Second row: atomic
Grüneisen parameter, calculated as a slope of ln (ω_(i)) versus ln V,
where ⟨ω_(i)⟩ is the partial average phonon frequency. Third row: same
as second, but for the total phonon spectrum. Values in brackets are
standard deviations of fittings.

Figure 8: (Color online) Phonon density of states for Hf Pd₂Al at 0 (top
panel) and 7.45 GPa (bottom panel). Color lines show the atomic partial
DOS (per atom).

Figure 7: (Color online) Effect of pressure on McMillan-Hopfield
parameters.

Figure 9: (Color online) Phonon dispersion relations for Hf Pd₂Al at 0
(top panel) and 7.45 GPa (bottom panel).

of antisite defects to be present there (antisite disorder was observed
in many related Heusler and half-Heusler systems, such as Co₂MnGe [49],
Fe_(1 − x)Ni_(x)TiSb [50], and FeVSb [51]). Moreover, our preliminary
KKR calculations with the coherent potential approximation (CPA) for the
system with antisite defects showed that EPC is likely to increase if
antisite defects are present. This could potentially explain the
underestimation of $\lambda_{\rm ep}$ but this subject is beyond the
scope of this paper and will be addressed in future studies. The 20

$$\gamma_{G}=\frac{3\alpha K_{T}}{C_{V}\rho}.$$

Here, α is the linear thermal expansion coefficient,
$K_{T}=-V\frac{3\rho}{3\nu}|_{T}$ is the isothermal bulk modulus, C_(V)
is the constant volume heat capacity (per mass), and ρ is the mass
density.

The pressure-dependent K_(T) values at 300 K were directly computed from
the fitted BMEOS (see above), and the constant volume heat capacity was
taken from the Dulong-Petit law (calculations of the specific heat,
using the theoretical phonon DOS, showed that for Hf Pd₂Al at 300 K
C_(v) is already 96

## IV Summary and conclusions

In summary, a polycrystalline sample of HfPd₂Al was synthesized by the
arc-melting method and its purity checked by powder x-ray diffraction.
The heat capacity and electrical resistivity measurements confirm bulk
superconductivity. Estimated superconducting critical temperature,
Sommerfeld parameter, Debye temperature, and the heat capacity
superconducting jump are in good agreement with those previously
reported for HfPd₂Al [2].

Our high-temperature XRD study of HfPd₂Al reveals the linear thermal
expansion coefficient α = 1.40(3) × 10⁻⁵ K⁻¹, which is comparable with
the result obtained for Ni₂MnGa (α = 1.5 × 10⁻⁵ K⁻¹) [41]. The main part
of this paper is focused on the compression and resistivity data under
applied pressure. The estimated bulk modulus for Hf Pd₂Al at room
temperature is B₀ = 97(2) GPa, which is much smaller than the value
obtained from the electronic structure calculations (B = 159 GPa) [40].
The superconducting critical temperature decreases linearly with applied
pressure and dT_(c)/dp = −0.13(1) K GPa⁻¹. The negative slope of
T_(c)(p) is contrary to expectations based on the lattice parameter
T_(c)(a) dependence observed for (Hf, Zr)Pd₂(In, Al) Heusler alloys, for
which the critical temperature increases with decreasing lattice
parameter a. Thus, the differences in T_(c) among (Hf, Zr)Pd₂(In, Al)
Heuslers likely come from the differences in electronic and phonon
structures and are not just the effect of chemical pressure. The value
of dT_(c)/dp estimated for Hf Pd₂Al is comparable to the value obtained
for ScPd₂Al

Figure 10: (Color online) Relative changes of electron-phonon coupling
parameter $\lambda_{\rm ep}$ (top panel) and critical temperature T_(c)
(bottom panel) obtained from calculations (empty symbols) and
measurements (full symbols). The overall trends are very similar, but
theoretical results underestimate the experimentally observed changes
for the highest pressures.

(dT_(c)/dp = −0.145 K GPa⁻¹) and remains the lowest among those reported
for APd₂Sn (A= Sc, Y, Tm, Yb, Lu) and YPd₂Pb Heusler-type
superconductors [15].

Electronic structure and phonon calculations were performed on Hf Pd₂Al
for several external pressures in the range 0-7.5 GPa. Using the rigid
muffin-tin approximation an electron-phonon coupling constant
$\lambda_{\rm ep}$ was calculated. We found that the highest
contribution to $\lambda_{\rm ep}$ in Hf Pd₂Al comes from the Pd atoms’
sublattice. Under external pressure the electronic part of the EPC
constant, i.e., McMillan-Hopfield parameters η, increase for Pd and Hf
and decrease for Al. Nevertheless, the pressure-induced stiffening of
the crystal lattice, represented by the average Griniesen parameter
γ_(G) = 1.87 (calculations), γ_(G) = 1.60 (experiment), overcomes the
increase in $\eta_{\rm pd}$ and $\eta_{\rm Hf}$; thus the total
electron-phonon coupling constant $\lambda_{\rm ep}$ decreases. Although
the initial (zero pressure) value of the electron-phonon coupling
parameter $\lambda_{\rm ep}=0.54$ is underestimated in calculations by
about 20

###### Acknowledgements.

B.W. was supported by the National Science Center (Poland) (Project No.
DEC-2011/02/A/ST3/00124). The research performed at Gdansk University of
Technology was financially supported by the National Science Centre
(Poland) Grant No. DEC-2012/07/E/ST3/00584.

## References

* [1] F. Heusler, Verh. Dtsch. Phys. Ges. **5**, 219 (1903). * [2] T.
Klimczuk, C. H. Wang, K. Gofryk, F. Ronning, J. Winterlik, G. H. Fecher,
J.-C. Griveau, E. Colineau, C. Felser, J. D. Thompson, D. J. Safarik,
and R. J. Cava, Phys. Rev. B **85**, 174505 (2012). * [3] A. Fujita, K.
Fukamichi, F. Gejima, and R. Kainuma, Appl. Phys. Lett. **77**, 3054
(2000). * [4] Z. H. Liu, M. Zhang, Y. T. Cui, Y. Q. Zhou, W. H. Wang, G.
H. Wu, X. X. Zhang, and G. Xiao, Appl. Phys. Lett. **82**, 424 (2003). *
[5] K. Gofryk, D. Kaczorowski, T. Plackowski, A. Leithe-Jasper, and Yu.
Grin, Phys. Rev. B **72**, 094409 (2005). * [6] D. Kaczorowski, K.
Gofryk, T. Plackowski, A. Leithe-Jasper, and Y. Grin, J. Magn. Magn.
Mater. **290-291**, 573 (2005). * [7] J. Winterlik, G. H. Fecher, and C.
Felser, Solid State Commun. **145**, 475 (2008). * [8] R. Lahiouel, J.
Pierre, E. Siaud, R. M. Galera, M. J. Besnus, J. P. Kappler, and A. P.
Murani, Z. Phys. B **67**, 185 (1987). * [9] S. Takayanagi, S. B. Woods,
N. Wada, T. Watanabe, Y. Onuki, A. Kobori, T. Komatsubara, M. Imai, and
H. Asano, J. Magn. Magn. Mater. **76-77**, 281 (1988). * [10] H.
Nakamura, Y. Kitaoka, K. Asayama, Y. Onuki, and T. Komatsubara, J. Magn.
Magn. Mater. **76-77**, 467 (1988). * [11] D. Kaczorowski, A.
Leithe-Jasper, T. Cichorek, K. Tenya, J. Custers, P. Gegenwart, and Yu.
Grin, Acta Phys. Pol. B **34**, 1253 (2003). * [12] K. Gofryk, D.
Kaczorowski, and A. Czopnik, Solid State Commun. **133**, 625 (2005). *
[13] M. Ishikawa, J. L. Jorda, and A. Junod, _Superconductivity in d-
and f-Band Metals_ (Kernforschungszentrum, Karlsruhe, Germany, 1982), p.
141. * [14] J. H. Wernick, G. W. Hull, T. H. Geballe, J. E. Bernardini,
and J. V. Waszczak, Mater. Lett. **2**, 90 (1983). * [15] M. J. Johnson
and R. N. Shelton, Solid State Commun. **52**, 839 (1984). * [16] H. A.
Kierstead, B. D. Dunlap, S. K. Malik, A. M. Umarji, and G. K. Shenoy,
Phys. Rev. B **32**, 135 (1985). * [17] S. Waki, Y. Yamaguchi, and K.
Mitsugi, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **54**, 1673 (1985). * [18] R. N. Shelton,
L. S. Hausermann-Berg, M. J. Johnson, P. Klavins, and H. D. Yang, Phys.
Rev. B **34**, 199 (1986). * [19] C. L. Seaman, N. R. Dilley, M. C. De
Andrade, J. Herrmann, M. B. Maple, and Z. Fisk, Phys. Rev. B **53**,
2651 (1996). * [20] K. Ramesh Kumar, V. Chunchu, and A. Thamizhavel, J.
Appl. Phys. **113**, 17E155 (2013). * [21] D. W. Capone II, R. P.
Guertin, S. Foner, D. G. Hinks, and H. C. Li, Phys. Rev. B **29**,
6375(R) (1984); S. Gabani, I. Takacova, G. Pristas, E. Galzo, K.
Flachbart, T. Mori, D. Braithwaite, M. Misek, K. V. Kamenev, M.
Hanfland, and P. Samuely, _ibid._**90**, 045136 (2014). * [22] H. M.
Rietveld, J. Appl. Crystallogr. **2**, 65 (1969). * [23] J.
Rodriguez-Carvajal, in _Abstracts of the Satellite Meeting on Powder
Diffraction of the XV Congress of the IUCr_ (Toulouse, France, 1990), p.
127. * [24] G. J. Piermarini, S. Block, J. D. Barnett, and R. A. Forman,
J. Appl. Phys. **46**, 2774 (1975). * [25] A. P. Hammersley, S. O.
Svensson, H. Hanfland, A. N. Fitch, and D. Hausermann, High Pressure
Res. **14**, 235 (1996). * [26] B. Bireckoven and J. Wittig, J. Phys. E
**21**, 841 (1988). * [27] A. Bansil, S. Kaprzyk, P. E. Mijnarends, and
J. Tobola, Phys. Rev. B **60**, 13396 (1999). * [28] G. D. Gaspari and
B. L. Gyorffy, Phys. Rev. Lett. **28**, 801 (1972). * [29] W. L.
McMillan, Phys. Rev. **167**, 331 (1968). * [30] J. J. Hopfield, Phys.
Rev. **186**, 443 (1969). * [31] B. Wiendlocha, J. Tobola, and S.
Kaprzyk, Phys. Rev. B **73**, 134522 (2006). * [32] I. I. Mazin, S. N.
Rashkeev, and S. Y. Savrasov, Phys. Rev. B **42**, 366 (1990). * [33] B.
Wiendlocha, J. Tobola, S. Kaprzyk, D. Fruchart, and J. Marcus, Phys.
Status Solidi B **243**, 351 (2006). * [34] B. Wiendlocha, J. Tobola, M.
Sternik, S. Kaprzyk, K. Parlinski, and A. M. Oles, Phys. Rev. B **78**,
060507(R) (2008). * [35] U. von Barth and L. Hedin, J. Phys. C: Solid
State Phys. **5**, 1629 (1972). * [36] K. Kutorasinski, B. Wiendlocha,
J. Tobola, and S. Kaprzyk, Phys. Rev. B **89**, 115205 (2014). * [37] P.
Giannozzi _et al._, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter **21**, 395502 (2009);
http://www.quantum-espresso.org. * [38] J. P. Perdew, K. Burke, and M.
Ernzerhof, Phys. Rev. Lett. **77**, 3865 (1996).

* [39]qHA code written by Eyvaz Isaev which is distributed as a part of
quantum espresso code; see http://www.quantum-espresso.org * [40] J.
Winterlik, G. H. Fecher, A. Thomas, and C. Felser, Phys. Rev. B **79**,
064508 (2009). * [41] V. D. Buchelnikov, V. V. Khovailo, and T. Takagi.
J. Magn. Magn. Mater. **300**, e459 (2006). * [42] F. Birch, Phys. Rev.
**71**, 809 (1947). * [43] P. B. Allen and R. C. Dynes, Phys. Rev. B
**12**, 905 (1975). * [44] B. Wiendlocha and M. Sternik, Intermetallics
**53**, 150 (2014). * [45]μ^(*) = 0.13 falls within the range 0.1-0.15
used in the literature. The same value was also used, for example, by A.
B. Karki, Y. M. Xiong, N. Haldolaarachchige, S. Stadler, I. Vekhter, P.
W. Adams, D. P. Young, W. A. Phelan, and J. Y. Chan, Phys. Rev. B
**83**, 144525 (2011). * [46] V. K. Ratti, R. Evans, and B. L. Gyorffy,
J. Phys. F: Met. Phys. **4**, 371 (1974). * [47] B. Wiendlocha, J.
Tobola, S. Kaprzyk, and D. Fruchart, J. Alloys Compd. **442**, 289
(2007). * [48] H. M. Tutuncu and G. P. Srivastava, J. Appl. Phys.
**116**, 013907 (2014). * [49] B. Ravel, J. O. Cross, M. P. Raphael, V.
G. Harris, R. Ramesh, and L. V. Saraf, Appl. Phys. Lett. **81**, 2812
(2002). * [50] J. Tobola, L. Jodin, P. Pecheur, H. Scherrer, G.
Venturini, B. Malaman, and S. Kaprzyk, Phys. Rev. B **64**, 155103
(2001). * [51] L. Jodin, J. Tobola, P. Pecheur, H. Scherrer, and S.
Kaprzyk, Phys. Rev. B **70**, 184207 (2004). * [52] J. Li, Z. Zhang, Y.
Sun, J. Zhang, G. Zhou, H. Luo, and G. Liu, Physica B **409**, 35
(2013). * [53] X.-P. Wei, G.-Y. Mao, S-B. Chu, H. Deng, J.-B. Deng, and
X.-R. Hu, J. Magn. Magn. Mater. **341**, 122 (2013). * [54] G. Grimvall,
_Thermophysical Properties of Materials_ (Elsevier Science, Amsterdam,
1999).
