# Raman transport and magnetization study

of the RuSr2R2_-_x_Ce_Cu2O_10+_d_ (_R_ = Gd, Eu) high-temperature
superconducting cuprates

G. V. M. Williams and M. Ryan

Industrial Research Limited, P.O. Box 31310, Lower Hutt, New Zealand

###### Abstract

We present the results from a Raman transport and magnetization study on
RuSr2R2_-_x_Ce_Cu2O_10+_d_. This compound has been shown to exhibit the
existence of superconducting and magnetic order. Unlike the other
superconducting ruthenate cuprate, RuSr2_R_Cu2O_8.
RuSr2R2_-_x_Ce_Cu2O_10+_d_ contains a significant ferromagnetic
component. We find that the peak in the low-field zero-field-cooled
magnetization data increases with increasing Ce concentration. This
increase is mirrored by an increase in the saturation magnetization at
9.5 kG. However, there is no direct correlation between these increases
and the superconducting transition temperature. Furthermore, there are
no well-defined changes in either the resistance or the thermopower data
that can be correlated with the magnetic-ordering transition. A simple
explanation for the increase in the saturation magnetization at 9.5 kG
is that, similar to SrRuO3, the RuO2 layers in
RuSr2R2_-_x_Ce_Cu2O_10+_d_ are itinerant ferromagnetic metals. We show
that the RuSr2R2_-_x_Ce_Cu2O_10+_d_ transport data can be interpreted in
terms of both the resistance and thermopower being dominated by the CuO2
layers. In this interpretation, the RuO2 layers only affect the
resistance in the CuO2 layers via exchange coupling and possible spin
scattering. The Raman spectra is essentially the same as that found in
RuSr2_R_Cu2O_d_ and there is no evidence of Raman modes that can be
associated with the R2_-_x_Ce_xO_2 substructure.

pacs: 0163-1829/2001/64/90/94515 + Footnote †: preprint: APS/123-QED

## I Introduction

It has recently been shown that both RuSr2R2_-_x_Ce_Cu2O_10+_d_ and
RuSr2_R_Cu2O_8 (_R_ = Gd, Eu) display superconducting and magnetic order
with the magnetic-ordering temperature being up to four times greater
than the superconducting transition temperature.[1, 2] These
superconductors were discovered by Bauernfeind, Widder, and Braun[3, 4]
and the unit cells are assumed to be similar to
LaSr2Nd2-_x_Ce_Cu2O_10+_d_,[5] NbSr2Eu2-_x_Ce_Cu2O_10+_d_, and
NbBa2_R_Cu2O_8. Most research effort has been focused on RuSr2_R_Cu2O_8
where a number of studies have reported that RuSr2_R_Cu2O_8 is a
ferromagnetic superconductor.[7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14] This
generated considerable interest because superconductivity cannot coexist
with magnetic order without some form of accommodation, for example, via
a spontaneous vortex phase or by a modulation of the respective order
parameters.[10] However, a neutron powder-diffraction study showed that
the low-field magnetic order in RuSr2GdCu2O8 is predominantly
antiferromagnetic in the RuO2 layers and that there is a magnetic
reorientation with increasing applied magnetic field.[15] A
magnetization study on RuSr2EuCu2O8 showed that the magnetization data
could be interpreted in terms of predominantly low-field
antiferromagnetic order (0.05_m__B_/Ru at 5 K) and a spin reorientation
to ferromagnetic order with increasing magnetic field.[16] In the case
of RuSr2GdCu2O8 the remanent magnetization is higher [0.15_m__B_/Ru
(Ref. [16]) or 0.115_m__B_/Ru (Ref. [17]) at 5 K] but is still within
the upper estimate of a ferromagnetic component determined from a
powder-neutron-diffraction study.[15]

Although, superconducting RuSr2R2_-_x_Ce_Cu2O_10+_d_ has not been
studied as extensively as RuSr2_R_Cu2O_8, it is apparent that it is more
interesting because there is evidence that RuSr2R2_-_x_Ce_xCu2O_10+_d_
is a ferromagnet.[18, 19] The temperature dependence of the
magnetization and the saturation magnetization from
RuSr2R2_-_x_Ce_Cu2O_10+_d_ (_x_ = 0.4,0.6) have been interpreted in
terms of localized Ru moments with significant spin canting.[1, 18]
Furthermore, the data have been interpreted in terms of the coexistence
of superconductivity and ferromagnetism where there is a spontaneous
vortex phase for temperatures near the superconducting transition
temperature.[19]

By comparison with the NbSr2Eu2-_x_Ce_xCu2O_10+_d_ and NbBa2_R_Cu2O_8
analogs, it is clear that there should be significant differences in the
electronic and magnetic properties of RuSr2R2_-_x_Ce_xCu2O_10+_d_ and
RuSr2_R_Cu2O_8. This is apparent in Fig. 1 where the structures of
RuSr2R2_-_x_Ce_xCu2O_10+_d_ and RuSr2_R_Cu2O_8 are shown (based on the
NbSr2R2_-_x_Ce_xCu2O_10+_d_ and NbBa2_R_Cu2O analogs[6]. The only
significant structural difference between NbBa₂_R_Cu₂O₈ and RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈
is that the RuO₆ octahedra in RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈ are known to be rotated about
the c axis by ∼14^(∘) (Refs. 8 and 11) (one study also reported a
buckling of the Ru-O-Cu bond[11]). These rotations form coherent domains
extending up to ∼20 nm. It is not known if the RuO₆ octahedra in
RuSr₂_(−x)Ce_(x)Cu₂O_(10 + δ) is also rotated. It can be seen in Fig. 1
that RuSr₂R_Cu₂O₈ is essentially a CuO₂ bilayer superconductor. However,
RuSr₂R_(2 − x)Ce_(x)Cu₂O_(10 + δ) (based on the reported
NbSr₂Eu_(2 − x)Ce_(x)Cu₂O_(10 + δ) structure) contains an
R_(2 − x)Ce_(x)O₂ structure in between the CuO₂ layers that is similar
to that seen in the R_(2 − x)Ce_(x)CuO₄ electron-doped T^(′) structure.
The comparison is more evident in Fig. 1(c) where we show the
R_(2 − x)Ce_(x)CuO₄T^(′) structure. Thus, the transport and
superconductivity behavior in the CuO₂ layers might be expected to be
similar to that of the single-CuO₂-layer superconductors. Unlike
RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈, the Ru atoms in RuSr₂R_(2 − x)Ce_(x)Cu₂O_(10 + δ) (based
on the reported NbSr₂Eu_(2 − x)Ce_(x)Cu₂O_(10 + δ) structure) are not
directly above each other in the adjacent RuO₂ layers. It is therefore
likely that the Ru-Ru exchange energy in the c axis direction is
significantly different.

We have performed a Raman transport and magnetization study of
RuSr₂R_(2 − x)Ce_(x)Cu₂O_(10 + δ) with the aim to understand the
vibrational, magnetic, and superconducting behavior of
RuSr₂R_(2 − x)Ce_(x)Cu₂O_(10 + δ). We show below that the saturation
magnetization at 9500 G can be interpreted in terms of itinerant
ferromagnetism in the RuO₂ layers. Furthermore, the transport data are
dominated by the CuO₂ layers and there is possibly weak coupling between
the carriers in the CuO₂ layers and the RuO₂ layers. We also show that
the Raman modes are similar to those found in RuSr₂R_Cu₂O₈.

## 5 Experimental Details

The RuSr₂_R_(2 − x)Ce_(x)Cu₂O_(10 + δ)_ samples were made from a
stoichiometric mixture of RuO₂, Sr(CO₃)₂, CeO₂, CuO, and Gd₂O₃ or Eu₂O₃.
The samples were first annealed in air at 960 degC for 16 h and then (i)
heated at 1010 degC in flowing ${\rm N}_{2}$ for 10 h, (ii) heated at
1050 degC in flowing ${\rm O}_{2}$ for 10 h and then (iv) heated at 1060
degC in flowing ${\rm O}_{2}$ for seven days. The samples were then
cooled to room temperature at a rate of 4 K/min. The sintering in
${\rm N}_{2}$ gas is required to suppress the SrRuO₃ phase.[4] This
results in Sr₂_R_RuO₆, CeO₂, and CuO. A La_(1.87)Sr_(0.13)CuO₄ sample
was made from a stoichiometric mix of La₂O₃, Sr(NO₃)₂, and CuO. The
powder was annealed at 700 degC for 1 h and then pressed into pellets,
which were heated at 990 degC, 1010 degC, and 1030 degC in air for 48 h.

The samples were characterized and the lattice parameters obtained,
using x-ray diffraction (XRD) with a Co _K_(α)_ x-ray tube. The
La_(1.87)Sr_(0.13)CuO₄ sample was single phase. There was no evidence of
SrRuO₃, CeO₂, CuO, RuSr₂R_Cu₂O₈, Gd₂CuO₄, or Sr₃Ru₂O₇ in the
RuSr₂_R_(2 − x)Ce_(x)Cu₂O_(10 + δ)_ XRD patterns after the final 1060
degC synthesis. However, samples with _x_≤0.8 displayed a small fraction
of excess Sr₂GdRuO₆ (<∼7

The Raman data were obtained on ceramic-powder samples using the
514.5-nm line of a Ar-ion laser. The incident power was less than 20 mW.
The incident light was vertically polarized and the scattered light was
unpolarized. However, the polarization sensitivity of the double
monochromator and the CCD detector meant that the detected light was
predominantly vertically polarized. The resistance data was obtained
using the four-terminal technique and the thermopower data was obtained
using the standard differential method. The variable-temperature
magnetization data were obtained using a vibrating-sample magnetometer
for temperatures greater than 15 K and for magnetic fields of up to 10
000 G. One sample was also measured using a SQUID magnetometer.

A part of the RuSr₂Gd_(1.4)Ce_(0.6)Cu₂O_(10 + δ) sample was annealed at
600 degC in 0.1

## 6 Results and Analysis

The RuSr₂Gd_(2 − x)Ce_(x)Cu₂O_(10 + δ) lattice parameters were, within
experimental error, independent of Ce concentration. We found that a =
(3.840 ± 0.004) A and c = (28.58 ± 0.03) A. These values are comparable
to those reported by Bauernfeind, Widder, and Braun [_a_ = 3.836 A and c
= 28.58 A (Ref. 3)]. It is particularly interesting to note that the
_a_-axis lattice parameter is within the range of that observed in
RuSr₂Gd_(2 − x)Ce_(x)Cu₂O_(10 + δ) (Ref. 3)]. In the case of
RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈ it is assumed that the rotations of the RuO₆ octahedra are
driven by the large Ru-O-Ru bond length when compared with the Cu-O-Cu
bond length. Thus, a similar _a_-axis lattice parameter in both
RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈ and RuSr₂Gd_(2 − x)Ce_(x)Cu₂O_(10 + δ) may indicate that
RuSr₂Gd_(2 − x)Ce_(x)Cu₂O_(10 + δ) also has a rotation of the RuO₆
octahedra.

We find that, while the structure of RuSr₂Gd_(2 − x)Ce_(x)Cu₂O_(10 + δ)
contains the electron-doped T^(′)R_(2 − x)Ce_(x)O₂ substructure, there
is no evidence of the corresponding phonon modes. This is apparent in
Fig. 2 where we plot the room-temperature Raman spectra from
RuSr₂Gd_(1.4) 596 cm⁻¹. The peaks in the Gd_(2 − x)Ce_(x)CuO₄ Raman
spectra at 347 and 492 cm⁻¹ have been attributed to B_(1g) and E_(g)
vibrations of O(4), respectively, while the peak at 596 cm⁻¹ is assigned
as a A_(1g)+ peak, which may be due to O(4) sites in the structures that
have been rotated to be directly above Cu.²⁰ It can be seen in Fig. 2
that there is an additional broad peak near 400 cm⁻¹ in the
RuSr₂Gd_(2 − x)Ce_(x)Cu₂O_(10 + δ) Raman spectra, however, this peak is
not near any of the expected R_(2 − x)Ce_(x)O₂ substructure peaks. The
absence of O(4) vibrations in the RuSr₂Gd_(2 − x)Ce_(x)Cu₂O_(10 + δ)
Raman spectra may be due to disorder from a variable Ce content and a
variable oxygen content in the R_(2 − x)Ce_(x)O₂ substructure.

It can be seen in Fig. 3 that both the zero resistance, T_(c)(0), and
the initial decrease in the resistance, T_(c), vary systematically with
increasing Ce concentration. This is clearer in the inset to Fig. 3(b)
where we plot T_(c)(0) (open circles) and T_(c) (filled circles) against
the Ce concentration. We find that T_(c)(0) and T_(c) are maximum for
0.6 Ce being 35 K and 50 K for RuSr₂Gd_(1 − δ)Ce_(0.6)Cu₂O_(10 + δ),
respectively. In the case of RuSr₂Eu_(1.4)Ce_(0.6)Cu₂O_(10 + δ),
T_(c)(0) = 26 K and T_(c) = 49 K. The maximum T_(c)(0) and T_(c) values
are higher than those reported by Felner _et al._ [∼20 and 42 K for x =
0.6 and R = Gd (Ref. 1)] and are comparable to those of Bauernfield,
Widder, and Braun [38 and 45 K for x = 0.5 and R = Gd (Ref. 3)]. The
T_(c) values for RuSr₂Gd_(1.4)Ce_(0.6)Cu₂O_(10 + δ) are also comparable
to those in RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈ [T_(c) = 45 K (Refs. 9 and 21)]. However, T_(c)
for RuSr₂Eu_(1.4)Ce_(0.6)Cu₂O_(10 + δ) is significantly higher than that
in RuSr₂Eu₂Cu₂O₈ [T_(c) = 32 K (Refs. 16 and 21)]. It is interesting to
note that the values of T_(c)(0) and T_(c) in
RuSr₂Gd_(1.4)Ce_(0.6)Cu₂O_(10 + δ) are also significantly higher than
those reported in nonmagnetic NbSr₂Eu_(1.4)Ce_(0.6)Cu₂O_(10 + δ) (∼13
and ∼20 K, respectively⁵). This may suggest that T_(c) is not being
significantly affected by the magnetic order in the RuO₂ layers (e.g.,
by possible magnetic pairbreaking).

It is apparent in Fig. 3 that the resistance data for all the as-made
RuSr₂Gd_(2 − x)Ce_(x)Cu₂O_(10 + δ) samples display a semiconductorlike
increase for low temperatures. However, in the case of
RuSr₂Gd_(1.4)Ce_(0.6)Cu₂O_(10 + δ), which has the smallest increase, the
semiconductorlike upturn disappears after oxygen loading at 100 bars as
can be seen by the dotted curve in Fig. 3(a). The origin of the
semiconductorlike upturn in oxygen-deficient samples is not clear. It
may be partly due to oxygen depletion at the grain boundaries. We note
that Bauernfeind, Widder, and Braun also observed the progressive
development of a low-temperature semiconductorlike upturn with
increasing oxygen deficiency.³

The resistance transitions are much broader than those observed in many
of the other HTSC. For example, the superconducting transition width is
about 14 K for the as-made RuSr₂Gd_(2 − x)Ce_(x)Cu₂O_(10 + δ) sample.
The superconducting transition width is broader than that observed by
Bauernfeind, Widder, and Braun³ and it is comparable to that observed by
Felner _et al.¹_ Furthermore, as can be seen in Fig. 3(b), the
superconducting transition width is comparable to that observed in
RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈.²¹ Part of the superconducting transition width may be due
to oxygen disorder in RuSr₂Gd_(2 − x)Ce_(x)Cu₂O_(10 + δ) and structural
disorder in RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈. However, we note that a broad superconducting
transition is also expected within the spontaneous vortex phase model.

Unlike some other dopants in HTSC we find that most of the additional
electrons introduced by Ce do not appear to be significantly altering
the hole concentration on the CuO₂ planes. This is apparent in the inset
to Fig. 3(b) where it can

Figure 3: Plot of the resistance from RuSr₂Gd_(2 − x)Ce_(x)Cu₂O_(10 + δ)
with (a) x = 0.4, 0.5, 0.6 (b) x = 0.6, 0.7, 0.8 1.0. The arrow
indicates increasing Ce concentration. The resistance data have been
vertically scaled to the same value at 220 K. Also shown is the
resistance from the RuSr₂Gd_(1.4)Ce_(0.6)Cu₂O_(10 + δ) sample, which was
oxygen loaded at 100 bars [dotted curve, Fig. 4(a)],
RuSr₂Eu_(1.4)Ce_(0.6)Cu₂O_(10 + δ) [dashed curve, Fig. 4(a)], and
RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈ [dashed curve, Fig. 4(b) (Ref. 21)]. Figure 4(b) inset:
Plot of T_(c) and T_(c)(0) against Ce content.

Figure 2: Plot of the room-temperature Raman spectra from
RuSr₂Gd_(1.4)Ce_(0.6)Cu₂O_(10 + δ).

be seen that an increase in x from 0.4 to 0.8 results in a small
increase and then decrease in T_(c) . If all of the electrons were doped
onto the CuO₂ planes then the hole concentration n should decrease by
0.2. However, by comparison with other HTSC,[22] a decrease in n by 0.2
should result in large changes in T_(c) . This is apparent by noting
that most HTSC have been shown to follow the T_(c)(n) correlation,
T_(c)(n) = T_(c, max )[1 −82.6(n - 0.16)²] where superconductivity
occurs for 0.05 ≤n = 0.27.[22] Thus if RuSr₂R_(2 − x)Ce_(x)Cu₂O_(10 + δ)
is underdoped (n < 0.16) then T_(c) should decrease from 43 K for x =
0.4 to 0 for x > 0.6, which is obviously not the case. On the other
hand, if we assume that RuSr₂Gd_(2 − x)Ce_(x)Cu₂O_(10 + δ) is overdoped,
then by comparison with other HTSC, T_(c) should dramatically increase
and then decrease. It is possible that, similar to
Bi₂Sr₂Ca_(1 − x)Y_(x)Cu₂O_(8 + δ),[23] the additional electrons
introduced by Ce⁴⁺ are partially compensated for by an increase in δ.
For example, an increase in x from 0.4 to 0.8 could be compensated for
by an increase in δ of 0.2. It is also possible that the additional
electrons introduced by Ce⁴⁺ are appearing in the RuO₂ layers. The
possible effects of a change in δ or a decrease in the Ru valence can be
seen using simple valence counting. In the case of RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈ it has
been shown from a x-ray absorption near-edge spectroscopy (XANES) study
that the Ru valence is +4.6.[24] Thus, from simple valence counting,
this gives a Cu valence of p = + 2.2, which is close to that of
underdoped YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ). From the similar T_(c) values of
RuSr₂R_(2 − x)Ce_(x)Cu₂O_(10 + δ) and RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈ we might expect that
the Cu valence is also ∼ + 2.2 in RuSr₂R_(2 − x)Ce_(x)Cu₂O_(10 + δ).
Thus, using p = 0.5 + δ + (y - x)/2, where 5 - y is the average Ru
valence, assuming that p = + 2.2 and using y = 0 for x = 0.5,[25] we
find that δ = 0.03 for x = 0.5. It is possible that p = + 2.2 is
maintained for increasing x by a corresponding increase in δ.

We show later that there are significant changes in the low-field
magnetization data commencing between 70 and 130 K, depending on the Ce
concentration. If the RuO₂ layers contributed significantly to the
normal-state conductivity then we might expect the magnetic ordering in
the RuO₂ layers to be mirrored by a decrease in the resistance. This is
observed in other ruthenate compounds.[26, 27, 28] For example, there is
a decrease in the SrRuO₃ resistance near the ferromagnetic-ordering
temperature (160 K).[26] However, it is clear in Fig. 3 that it is not
observed in RuSr₂Gd_(1.4)Ce_(0.6)Cu₂O_(10 + δ), even after the 100-bar
anneal, and it is also not observed in RuSr₂R₂Cu₂O₈.[9, 12, 11] In the
case of RuSr₂R₂Cu₂O₈ the effect of the RuO₂ layers is observed
indirectly by magnetoresistance measurements.[12, 13] It is therefore
possible that the RuO₂ layers in RuSr₂Gd_(1.4)Ce_(0.6)Cu₂O_(10 + δ) do
not contribute directly to the normal-state conductivity (i.e.,
$\sigma_{\rm RuO_{2}}$≪$\sigma_{\rm CuO_{2}}$).

We show in Fig. 4 that the thermopower also changes with increasing Ce
concentration. It can be seen in the inset to Fig. 4(a) that the
room-temperature thermopower initially decreases and then increases with
increasing Ce concentration (filled circles). It had previously been
argued in the case of RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈ that the room-temperature thermopower
$S(300\,{\rm K})$ of RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈(∼ 60 μV/K) is indicative of a very
underdoped high-temperature superconductor (HTSC) [n ∼ 0.065 (Ref. 9)].
This was based on the $S(300\,{\rm K})$ hole-concentration
correlation,[29] which has been found for most of the HTSC’s. A similar
interpretation of $S(300\,{\rm K})$ for
RuSr₂Gd_(1.4)Ce_(0.6)Cu₂O_(10 + δ) would imply that
RuSr₂Gd_(2 − x)Ce_(x)Cu₂O_(10 + δ) is a hole-doped HTSC and the maximum
hole concentration is ∼0.10 for x = 0.6. However, there is a problem
because according to the $S(300\,{\rm K})$ vs hole-concentration
correlation, $S(300\,{\rm K})$ for RuSr₂Gd_(2 − x)Ce_(x)Cu₂O_(10 + δ)
should systematically increase with increasing Ce concentration (i.e.,
decreasing hole concentration). It may be that like
La_(2 − x)Sr_(x)CuO₄,[30] RuSr₂Gd_(2 − x)Ce_(x)Cu₂O_(10 + δ) does not
follow the $S(300\,{\rm K})$ vs hole-concentration correlation or the
electrons introduced by Ce⁴⁺ are partially compensated for by an
increase in δ.

The effect of oxygen unloading is to increase $S(300\,{\rm K})$ while
oxygen loading decreases $S(300\,{\rm K})$ as can be seen in Fig. 4(a)
inset for the RuSr₂Gd_(1.6)Ce_(0.4)Cu₂O_(10 + δ) sample. The decrease in
oxygen content for the oxygen unloaded sample corresponds to a maximum
decrease in the hole concentration in the CuO₂ planes of 0.10. It might
be expected that a decrease in δ of 0.10 is equivalent to a 0.20
increase in the

Figure 4: (a) Plot of thermopower against temperature from
RuSr₂Gd_(2 − x)Ce_(x)Cu₂O_(10 + δ) with x = 1.0 (open up triangles), 0.8
(open down triangles), 0.6 (open circles), and x = 0.4 (filled circles).
Also included is the thermopower from RuSr₂Gd_(1.4)Ce_(0.6)Cu₂O_(10 + δ)
that had been annealed at 600 °C in 0.1

Ce content. However, this does not appear to be the case because _S_(300
K) for the oxygen-reduced sample is even higher than that for the 1.0 Ce
sample. We show later that changes in the magnetic order correlate with
a decrease in d of 0.10 corresponding to an increase in x of 0.20.

The temperature dependence of the thermopower for
RuSr₂_R_2_(−x)Ce_(x)Cu₂O_(10 + δ) has features similar to those found in
RuSr₂_R_Cu₂O₈.[21, 3] In particular, _S_(_T_) is flat or initially
increases with decreasing temperature. At a lower temperature of ∼170 K,
_S_(_T_) begins to decrease for all the samples studied. This is clearer
in the inset to Fig. 4(b) where we plot _dS_/_dT_ against temperature
for RuSr₂Gd_(1.4)Ce_(0.6)Cu₂O_(10 + δ) (open circles). The normal-state
temperature dependence of the derivative is essentially the same for all
the superconducting RuSr₂_R_2_(−x)Ce_(x)Cu₂O_(10 + δ) samples and is
only different for nonsuperconducting RuSr₂_R_CeCu₂O_(10 + δ) (open up
triangles). Although there is no generally accepted model for the
thermopower in the HTSC, we believe that the thermopower is dominated by
the CuO₂ layers. In two of the other HTSC’s, which contain CuO₂ planes
and conducting CuO chains or CuO ribbons, it has been shown that the
thermopower can be modeled as _S_(_T_) = (_s_CaO₂/_s_T_)_S_CuO₂ +
(_s_CuO₂/_s_T_)_S_CuO₂, where _s_CaO₂ is the conductivity from the CuO₂
planes, _s_CaO is the conductivity from the CuO chain or ribbons,
_s_CaO₇ is the total conductivity, _S_CaO₂ is the thermopower from the
CuO₂ planes, and _S_CaO is the thermopower from the CuO chain or
ribbons.[30, 31, 32] Thus, the interpretation of the
RuSr₂_R_2_(−x)Ce_(x)Cu₂O_(10 + δ) resistance data in terms of
_s_RuO₂*_s_CaO₂ can lead to the thermopower being dominated by the CuO₂
layers.

It is important to note that the decrease in the thermopower below ∼170
K does not imply that the decrease is somehow related to the magnetic
order. This is apparent in Fig. 4(b) where we also plot the thermopower
from undoped La_(1.87)Sr_(0.13)CuO₄ (crosses). It can be seen that
La_(1.87)Sr_(0.13)CuO₄ displays general features similar to those seen
in RuSr₂Gd_(2 − x)Ce_(x)Cu₂O_(10 + δ), except that the decrease in
_S_(_T_) occurs at a lower temperature (∼130 K). Furthermore, as we show
later, the peak in the zero-field-cooled magnetization and the
saturation magnetization systematically increase with increasing Ce
concentration. However, this is not reflected by changes in the
temperature dependence of the thermopower.

The rapid decrease in _S_(_T_) for RuSr₂_R_2_(−x)Ce_(x)Cu₂O_(10 + δ) at
low temperatures signals the onset of superconductivity. We find that
the zero-thermopower temperature (49 K for R = Gd and 41 K for R = Eu
for x = 0.6) is close to _T__(c) as determined from the resistance data.
Similar behavior is observed in RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈, where zero thermopower
occurs at ∼49 K, the resistance begins to decrease below 45 K, and a
specific-heat jump is observed at 45 K.[9, 21]

It is apparent in Fig. 5(a) that there are systematic changes in the
low-field zero-field-cooled (ZFC) magnetization M2FC from
RuSr₂Gd_(2 − x)Ce_(x)Cu₂O_(10 + δ) with increasing Ce concentration. In
particular, there is a peak in M2FC at a temperature _T__(p), which
increases in temperature with increasing Ce concentration, and for
higher temperatures there is a gradual decrease in M2FC with increasing
temperature. Furthermore, this peak disappears with increasing magnetic
field as can be seen in Fig. 5(b). Similar features were observed in
RuSr₂Eu_(2 − x)Ce_(x)Cu₂O_(10 + δ) for x = 0.5 and x = 0.6 where the
data was interpreted in terms of localized Ru moment magnetic ordering
at 180 K, slight spin canting below ∼170 K, and Ru-Ru and/or Gd-Ru
interactions at lower temperatures.[19] However, as we show later, the
saturation magnetization data at 9500 G can be interpreted in terms of
itinerant ferromagnetism in the RuO₂ layers. Unfortunately, there are no
reports of neutron diffraction or very-high-field magnetization
measurements, which would provide a better understanding of the magnetic
order in RuSr₂_R_2_(−x)Ce_(x)Cu₂O_(10 + δ). In the absence of such data,
we associate _T__(p) with the ferromagnetic ordering in the RuO₂ layers.
We note again that there was no evidence of SrRuO₃ (magnetic-ordering
temperature of 160 K) in the XRD pattern. There was some evidence of
Gd₂SrRuO₆ and Eu₂SrRuO₆ but these phases do not magnetically order above
100 K.

We show in the inset to Fig. 5(b) that _T__(p) at 50 G increases
systematically with increasing Ce concentration and there is no
significant change for R = Gd (filled circles) or R = Eu (filled up
triangles). It is not clear if the increase in _T__(p) is due to the
additional holes going onto the RuO₂ layers or structurally induced
changes in the RuO₂ layer band structure. A similar increase in the
magnetic-ordering temperature has

Figure 5: (a) Plot of the zero-field-cooled magnetization at 50 G from
RuSr₂Gd_(2 − x)Ce_(x)Cu₂O_(10 + δ) with x = 0.4, 0.6, 0.8, and 1.0. The
arrow indicates increasing Ce fraction. (b) Plot of zero-field-cooled
magnetization from RuSr₂Gd_(1.4)Ce_(0.6)Cu₂O_(10 + δ) with H = 50, 250,
and 1000 G. The arrow indicates increasing H. Inset: Plot of the maximum
zero-field-cooled magnetization temperature at 50 G, _T__(p), for
RuSr₂Gd_(2 − x)Ce_(x)Cu₂O_(10 + δ) (filled circles) and
RuSr₂Eu_(2 − x)Ce_(x)Cu₂O_(10 + δ) (filled up triangles). Also shown is
_T__(p) for the RuSr₂Gd_(1.4)Ce_(0.6)Cu₂O_(10 + δ) sample annealed at
600 °C in 0.1

been observed in Ca_(1 − x)Sr_(x)RuO₃ with increasing x for x> 0.3.[27,
33] However Ca and Sr have the same 2+ valence and hence the increase in
T_(p) with increasing Ca concentration is not due to a simple doping
effect. It is interesting to note that the removal of oxygen (i.e., the
removal of holes) from RuSr₂R_(2 − x)Ce_(x)Cu₂O_(10 + δ) has the same
effect on T_(p) as an increase in Ce concentration (i.e., the removal of
holes). This can be seen in the inset to Fig. 5(b) where we plot the
data for the RuSr₂R_(1.4)Ce_(0.6)Cu₂O_(10 + δ) sample, which had been
annealed at 600 degC in 0.1

We show in Fig. 6 that both RuSr₂Gd_(2 − x)Ce_(x)Cu₂O_(10 + δ) and
RuSr₂Eu_(2 − x)Ce_(x)Cu₂O_(10 + δ) display similar magnetic hysteresis
with increasing applied magnetic field. Here we plot the magnetization
against magnetic field for x = 0.8. The larger gradient observed for Gd
is due to the large Gd moment. It can be seen that both the remanent
magnetization and the coercive field decrease with increasing
temperature. The resultant remanent magnetization is plotted in Fig. 7
for fully loaded RuSr₂Gd_(2 − x)Ce_(x)Cu₂O_(10 + δ) (solid symbols) and
RuSr₂Eu_(1.2)Ce_(0.8)Cu₂O_(10 + δ) (solid curve). We find that the
remanent magnetization from RuSr₂Gd_(2 − x)Ce_(x)Cu₂O_(10 + δ) falls
onto a common curve for 0.6≤x ≤ 1.0 and is still finite for temperatures
up to 100 K. Oxygen removal for x = 0.6 has no significant effect on the
remanent magnetization as can be seen by the open circles in Fig. 7.

We show in Fig. 8 that the magnetization saturates for moderate magnetic
fields (∼2500 G) after which the magnetization increases slowly with
increasing magnetic field. Here we plot the magnetization from
RuSr₂Eu_(2 − x)Ce_(x)Cu₂O_(10 + δ) [Fig. 8(a)] and
RuSr₂Gd_(2 − x)Ce_(x)Cu₂O_(10 + δ) [Fig. 8(b)] at 16 K. The linear
saturation of the magnetization observed in
RuSr₂R_(2 − x)Ce_(x)Cu₂O_(10 + δ) for magnetic fields above ∼2500 G and
at 16 K can be contrasted with RuSr₂EuCu₂O₈ [dashed curve in Fig. 8(a)
and at 25 K (Ref. [16])], where the magnetization has not saturated for
magnetic fields as high as 60 000 G. The magnetization for
RuSr₂Gd_(2 − x)Ce_(x)Cu₂O_(10 + δ) has a slope that is much greater than
that of RuSr₂Eu_(2 − x)Ce_(x)Cu₂O_(10 + δ), which is due to the Gd³⁺
moment. In the case of RuSr₂Eu_(2 − x)Ce_(x)Cu₂O_(10 + δ), the Van Vleck
paramagnetism from Eu³⁺ at 16 K is too small to account for the increase
in the magnetization above ∼2500 G. To characterize the saturation
magnetization with increasing Ce concentration, we plot the
magnetization at 9500 G and 16 K from RuSr₂Eu_(2 − x)Ce_(x)Cu₂O_(10 + δ)
in the inset to Fig. 7 (solid up triangles). Also plotted is the
magnetization at 9500 G and 16 K from RuSr₂Gd_(2 − x)Ce_(x)Cu₂O_(10 + δ)
(filled circles) after subtraction of the Curie-Weiss term attributed to
the Gd³⁺ moment, which is assumed to be 7 μ_(B)/Gd (Ref. [2]) in
RuSr₂GdCu₂O₈. It can be seen that the saturation magnetization increases
consistently for both

Figure 6: Plot of the magnetization against H for (a)
RuSr₂Gd_(2 − x)Ce_(x)Cu₂O_(10 + δ) with T = 17, 37, 57, 77, 117, and 118
K; (b) RuSr₂Eu_(1.2)Ce_(0.8)Cu₂O_(10 + δ) with T = 17, 37, 56, 77, 98,
and 121 K. The lower-temperature loops have larger hysteresis. The
initial increase in H has been removed for clarity.

Figure 7: Plot of the remanent magnetization against temperature for
RuSr₂Gd_(2 − x)Ce_(x)Cu₂O_(10 + δ) with x = 0.4 (filled down triangles),
0.6 (filled circles), 0.8 (filled up triangles), and 1.0 (filled
diamonds). Also included is the remanent magnetization from
RuSr₂Eu_(1.2)Ce_(0.8)Cu₂O_(10 + δ) (solid curve) and the
RuSr₂Gd_(1.4)Ce_(0.6)Cu₂O_(10 + δ) sample that had been annealed at 600
°C in 0.1

RuSr₂Eu_(2 − x)Ce_(x)Cu₂O_(10 + δ) and
RuSr₂Gd_(2 − x)Ce_(x)Cu₂O_(10 + δ). Also shown in the inset to Fig. 7 is
the corresponding remanent magnetization at 16 K (open symbols).

There are a number of similarities between the magnetic and electronic
behavior of the RuO₂ layers in SrRuO₃, RuSr₂_R_Cu₂O₈, and
RuSr₂F_(2 − x)Ce_(x)Cu₂O_(10 + δ). For example, the octahedral crystal
field results in the 4_d⁴ band splitting to become a triplet (_t_(2g)_)
state and a higher-energy doublet (_e_(g)_) valence band. Thus for Ru⁴⁺,
the ground state should have S = 1 and hence the saturation moment
should be 2.0_m_μ_(B)/Ru. However, in the case of SrRuO₃ and
RuSr₂EuCu₂O₈ the saturation moment at 60 kG and 5 K is only
 1.3_m_μ_(B)/Ru (Ref. [27]) and  1_m_μ_(B)/Ru (Ref. [16]), respectively.
Interestingly, the moment per Ru in SrRuO₃ has not saturated for
magnetic fields as high as 300 kG [ 1.4_m_μ_(B)/Ru at 300 kG and 50 K
(Ref. [27])]. In the case of SrRuO₃ it is now believed that SrRuO₃ is an
itinerant ferromagnetic metal as well as a "bad" metal with a very small
mean free path.[26, 27, 33] It is therefore possible that the RuO₂
layers in both RuSr₂_R_Cu₂O₈ and RuSr₂F_(2 − x)Ce_(x)Cu₂O_(10 + δ)
display itinerant magnetic behavior. This interpretation is different
from that suggested by a recent XANES study on RuSr₂_R_Cu₂O₈ where the
data was interpreted in terms of a mixture of Ru⁴⁺ and Ru⁵⁺
ferrimagnetism and it was suggested that there is a double-exchange
interaction in the RuO₂ layers.[24] The double-exchange mechanism[34]
has been invoked to explain the ferromagnetic transition in
La_(1 − x)Sr_(x)MnO₃, where the ordering is accompanied by a dramatic
decrease in the resistivity.[35] For the double-exchange mechanism to be
valid in RuSr₂_R_Cu₂O₈ and RuSr₂_R_2_(−x)Ce_(x)Cu₂O_(10 + δ) we would
expect a mixture of t_(2g)³e¹(Ru⁴⁺) and t_(2g)³(Ru⁵⁺) with S = 2 and S =
3/2, respectively. Therefore, we might expect the saturation
magnetization to be between 4_m_μ_(B)/Ru and 3_m_μ_(B)/Ru. However, as
mentioned above, the saturation magnetization at 9500 G and 16 K for
RuSr₂F_(2 − x)Ce_(x)Cu₂O_(10 + δ) is less than 1_m_μ_(B)/Ru.
Furthermore, the saturation magnetization at 60 000 G and 5 K for
RuSr₂EuCu₂O₈ is only  1_m_μ_(B)/Ru.

The itinerant ferromagnetic interpretation for
RuSr₂_R_2_(−x)Ce_(x)Cu₂O_(10 + δ) conveniently explains why the
saturation magnetization is less than that expected within a local
moment model and why the saturation magnetization varies systematically
with increasing Ce concentration. A similar increase in both the
saturation magnetization and the magnetic-ordering temperature is
observed in Ca_(1 − x)Sr_(x)RuO₂ for x > 0.3 where, as mentioned
earlier, the substitution of Sr²⁺ for Ca²⁺ is not expected to result in
a simple doping effect. The changes observed in Ca_(1 − x)Sr_(x)RuO₃
have been interpreted in terms of band effects where the underlying
interaction is assumed to be ferromagnetic.[26, 27, 33] The low-field
antiferromagnetic order of RuSr₂R_Cu₂O₈ and the spin-flip transition for
higher applied fields indicates that the interactions are more complex
in RuSr₂_R_Cu₂O₈. Antiferromagnetic order is observed in another
ruthenate, Sr₂GdRuO₆, but this ruthenate is also an insulator.

## Conclusion

We have shown that the RuSr₂_R_2_(−x)Ce_(x)Cu₂O_(10 + δ) transport data
can be interpreted in terms of the CuO₂ layers dominating the electrical
conductivity and the thermopower. There is possibly exchange coupling
from the carriers in the RuO₂ layers to the conduction-band carriers in
the CuO₂ layers, as is observed in RuSr₂_R_Cu₂O₈. There is a low-field
peak in the zero-field-cooled magnetization and the saturation
magnetization increases with increasing Ce concentration. However, there
is no direct correlation between these increases and the superconducting
transition temperature, which may indicate that pairbreaking via
coupling to the RuO₂ layers is weak. Although the temperature dependence
of the magnetization is complex we show, by comparing the saturation
magnetization with that from other ruthenate compounds, that the
magnetic order in the RuO₂ layers can be interpreted in terms of
itinerant ferromagnetism. The room-temperature Raman spectra display the
same modes found in RuSr₂_R_Cu₂O₈ and there is no evidence of O(4) Raman
modes that are observed in the electron-doped _T_’HTSC. This may be due
to O(4) site disorder in the R2_(−x)Ce_(x)O₂ layers, which could arise
from a variable oxygen content in the R2_(−x)Ce_(x)O₂ layers.

## Acknowledgments

Funding support was provided by the New Zealand Marsden Fund and the
Alexander von Humboldt Foundation. We acknowledge helpful discussions
with H. J. Trodahl and S. Kramer. We thank R. Fairlie for oxygen loading
and measuring one of the samples.

Figure 8: (a) Plot of the magnetization against H at 16 K for
RuSr₂Eu_(2 − x)Ce_(x)Cu₂O_(10 + δ) with x = 0.4, 0.6, 0.8, and 1.0. The
arrow indicates increasing Ce fraction. The dashed curve is for
RuSr₂EuCu₂O₆ and at 25 K.[16] (b) Plot of the magnetization against H at
16 K for RuSr₂Gd_(2 − x)Ce_(x)Cu₂O_(10 + δ) with x = 0.6, 0.8, and 1.0.
The arrow indicates increasing Ce fraction. The initial increase in H
has been removed for clarity.

## References

* [1] A. Felner, U. Asaf, Y. Levi, and O. Milio, Phys. Rev. B **55**,
3374 (1997). * [2] C. Bernhard, J. L. Tallon, Ch. Neidermayer, Th.
Blasius, A. Golnik, E. Brucher, R. K. Kremer, D. R. Noakes, C. E.
Stronach, and E. J. Ansaldo, Phys. Rev. B **59**, 14 099 (1999). * [3]
L. Bauernfeind, W. Widder, and H. F. Braun, Physica C **254**, 151
(1995). * [4] L. Bauernfeind, W. Widder, and H. F. Braun, J. Low Temp.
Phys. **105**, 1605 (1996). * [5] L. Rukang, Z. Yingjie, Q. Yitai, and
L. Zuyao, Physica C **176**, 19 (1991). * [6] T. J. Goodwin, H. B.
Radousky, and R. N. Shelton, Physica C **204**, 212 (1992). * [7] J.
Tallon, C. Bernhard, M. Bowden, P. Gilberd, T. Stoto, and D. Pringle,
IEEE Trans. Appl. Supercond. **9**, 1051 (1999). * [8] A. C. McLaughlin,
W. Zhou, J. P. Attfield, A. N. Fitch, and J. L. Tallon, Phys. Rev. B
**60**, 7512 (1999). * [9] J. L. Tallon, J. W. Loram, G. W. M. Williams,
and C. Bernhard, Phys. Rev. B **61**, 6471 (2000). * [10] W. E. Picket,
R. Weht, and A. B. Shick, Phys. Rev. Lett. **83**, 3713 (1999). * [11]
O. Chmaissem, J. D. Jorgensen, H. Shaked, P. Dollar, and J. L. Tallon,
Phys. Rev. B **61**, 6401 (2000). * [12] J. E. McCrone, J. R. Cooper,
and J. L. Tallon, J. Low Temp. Phys. **117**, 1199 (1999). * [13] A.
Fainstein, E. Winkler, A. Butera, and J. L. Tallon, Phys. Rev. B **60**,
12 597 (1999). * [14] A. Fainstein, P. Etchegoin, H. J. Trodahl, and J.
L. Tallon, Phys. Rev. B **61**, 15 468 (2000). * [15] J. W. Lynn, B.
Keimer, C. Ulrich, C. Bernhard, and J. L. Tallon, Phys. Rev. B **61**,
14 964 (2000). * [16] G. V. M. Williams and S. Kramer, Phys. Rev. B
**62**, 4132 (2000). * [17] A. C. McLaughlin and J. P. Attfield, Phys.
Rev. B **60**, 14 605 (1999). * [18] I. Felner, U. Asaf, Y. Levi, and O.
Millo, Physica C **334**, 141 (2000). * [19] E. B. Sonin and I. Felner,
Phys. Rev. B **57**, 14 000 (1998). * [20] R. T. Heyen, R. Liu, M.
Cardona, S. Pinol, R. J. Melville, D. McK. Paul, E. Moran, and M. A.
Alario-Franco, Phys. Rev. B **43**, 2857 (1991). * [21] M. Pozek, A.
Dulcic, D. Paar, G. V. M. Williams, and S. Kramer, Phys. Rev. B (to be
published). * [22] M. R. Presland, J. L. Tallon, R. G. Buckley, R. S.
Liu, and N. E. Flower, Physica C **176**, 95 (1991). * [23] G. V. M.
Williams, D. M. Pooke, D. J. Pringle, H. J. Trodahl, J. L. Tallon, J.
Quilty, N. Malde, J. Driscoll, A. Crossley, and L. Cohen, Phys. Rev. B
**62**, 1379 (2000). * [24] R. S. Liu, L.-Y. Jang, H.-H. Hung, and J. L.
Tallon, Phys. Rev. B **63**, 212507 (2001). * [25] I. Felner, U. Asaf,
C. Godart, and E. Alleno, Physica B **259-261**, 703 (1999). * [26] P.
B. Allen, H. Berger, O. Chauvet, L. Forro, T. Jarlborg, A. Junod, B.
Revaz, and G. Santi, Phys. Rev. B **53**, 4393 (1996). * [27] G. Cao, S.
McCall, M. Shepard, J. E. Crow, and R. P. Guertin, Phys. Rev. B **56**,
321 (1997). * [28] G. Cao, S. McCall, J. E. Crow, and R. P. Guertin,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **78**, 1751 (1997). * [29] S. D. Obertelli, J. R.
Cooper, and J. L. Tallon, Phys. Rev. B **46**, 14 928 (1992). * [30] M.
V. Elizarova and V. E. Gasumyants, Phys. Rev. B **62**, 5989 (2000). *
[31] G. V. M. Williams, M. Staines, and R. H. Meinhold, Physica C
**258**, 273 (1996). * [32] C. Bernhard and J. L. Tallon, Phys. Rev. B
**54**, 10 201 (1996). * [33] K. Yoshimura, T. Imai, T. Kiyama, K. R.
Thurber, A. W. Hunt, and K. Kosuge, Phys. Rev. Lett. **83**, 4397
(1999). * [34] J. B. Goodenough, Phys. Rev. **100**, 564 (1955). * [35]
H. Asano, J. Hayakawa, and M. Matsui, Phys. Rev. B **56**, 5395 (1997).
