Multiband superconductivity and possible nodal gap in RbCr₃As₃ revealed
by Andreev reflection and single-particle tunneling measurements

Zhixin Liu

National Laboratory of Solid State Microstructures and Department of
Physics, Collaborative Innovation Center of Advanced Microstructures,
Nanjing University, Nanjing 210093, China

Mingyang Chen

National Laboratory of Solid State Microstructures and Department of
Physics, Collaborative Innovation Center of Advanced Microstructures,
Nanjing University, Nanjing 210093, China

Ying Xiang

National Laboratory of Solid State Microstructures and Department of
Physics, Collaborative Innovation Center of Advanced Microstructures,
Nanjing University, Nanjing 210093, China

Xiaoyu Chen

National Laboratory of Solid State Microstructures and Department of
Physics, Collaborative Innovation Center of Advanced Microstructures,
Nanjing University, Nanjing 210093, China

Huan Yang

National Laboratory of Solid State Microstructures and Department of
Physics, Collaborative Innovation Center of Advanced Microstructures,
Nanjing University, Nanjing 210093, China Beijing National Laboratory
for Condensed Matter Physics, Institute of Physics, Chinese Academy of
Sciences, Beijing 100190, China

Tong Liu

Beijing National Laboratory for Condensed Matter Physics, Institute of
Physics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100190, China School of
Physical Sciences, University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing
100190, China Collaborative Innovation Center of Quantum Matter, Beijing
100190, China

Qing-Ge Mu

Beijing National Laboratory for Condensed Matter Physics, Institute of
Physics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100190, China
Collaborative Innovation Center of Quantum Matter, Beijing 100190, China

Kang Zhao

Beijing National Laboratory for Condensed Matter Physics, Institute of
Physics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100190, China
Collaborative Innovation Center of Quantum Matter, Beijing 100190, China

Zhi-An Ren

Beijing National Laboratory for Condensed Matter Physics, Institute of
Physics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100190, China
Collaborative Innovation Center of Quantum Matter, Beijing 100190, China

Hai-Hu Wen

National Laboratory of Solid State Microstructures and Department of
Physics, Collaborative Innovation Center of Advanced Microstructures,
Nanjing University, Nanjing 210093, China Collaborative Innovation
Center of Quantum Matter, Beijing 100190, China

###### Abstract

By measuring point-contact Andreev reflection (PCAR) spectra in the
newly discovered chromium-based quasi-one-dimensional superconductor
RbCr₃As₃, we find clear evidence of two superconducting components,
i.e., one having a gap value of about 1.8 meV and another with a gap
value of about 5 meV. Since the current injection may have components in
both the directions parallel and perpendicular to the [(Cr₃As₃)⁻]_(∞)
chains in the PCAR measurements, it naturally explains the two-component
feature observed in this multiband superconductor. Detailed analysis
shows that the larger gap may have an s-wave nature. We then carry out
the single-particle tunneling measurements based on a scanning tunneling
spectroscopy by using the needlelike sample as the tip, and in this case
the measured current is mainly parallel to the [(Cr₃As₃)⁻]_(∞) chains.
The single-particle tunneling spectra show only one gap feature with a
gap value of about 1.8 meV. Fitting to the single-particle tunneling
spectra indicates that the gap should have a large anisotropy or even
node(s). We argue that the absence of the larger gap may be related to
the direction of the injecting current. Therefore, our combined
experiments show the multiband superconductivity with one gap being
nodal or highly anisotropic.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.100.094511

## I Introduction

In materials containing 3d transition-metal elements, many new
superconductors have been discovered, and some of them show
unconventional superconductivity. The latter is argued to have a close
relationship with the strong correlation effect of electrons in 3d
orbitals. For compounds containing 3d transition-metal chromium,
superconductivity was first observed in the binary CrAs under pressure
with a transition temperature T_(c) ≈ 2 K [1]. After that some new
quasi-one-dimensional (quasi-1D) Cr-based superconductors were
discovered at ambient pressure, and they are mainly classified into two
families, including 233 and 133, with the chemical formulas A₂Cr₃As₃ and
ACr₃As₃ (A = K, Rb, Cs), respectively [2, 3, 4, 5, 6]. Recently, the
superconductor Na₂Cr₃As₃ was also successfully synthesized [7], and it
has the highest T_(c) = 8.6 K among these Cr-based superconductors. This
discovery has been extended to the Mo-based system; superconductivity
with T_(c) of about 10.3 K has been reported in K₂Mo₃As₃[8]. It has been
claimed that the 133 phase may be more stable against water moisture in
air than the 233 phase; thus, it is easier to handle for many elegant
measurements. The structural characteristic of Cr-based materials is
that they contain 1D [Cr₃As₅]_(∞) chains separated by alkali-metal atoms
[2], which makes the physical properties and superconductivity of these
materials very interesting.

Clearly, the newly discovered Cr-based superconductors provide a new
platform to research superconductivity related to the pairing of 3d
electrons. The band structure calculations of A₂Cr₃As₃ reveal three sets
of Fermi surfaces (FSs) which are mainly contributed by 3d orbitals of
chromium. The FSs consist of two flat ones from quasi-1D α and β bands
as well as a three-dimensional (3D) one from the 3D γ band [9, 10, 11,
12]. The quasi-1D FSs were then confirmed by angle-resolved
photoemission spectroscopy measurements in K₂Cr₃As₃[13]. Because of the
complex band structure, different kinds of unconventional pairing
symmetries were predicted for A₂Cr₃As₃ superconductors theoretically.
One interesting proposal is that a nodal triplet p_(z)-wave pairing
driven by the ferromagnetic fluctuations within the Cr sublattice occurs
on the quasi-1D β band [11]. Another prediction is that the pairing can
change from a spin-triplet state f_(y(3x² − y²)) with line nodes on the
3D γ band to a spin-triplet fully gapped state p_(z)ξ at the quasi-1D α
band when the strength ratio between Hund’s coupling and interorbital
repulsion decreases [12]. Meanwhile, from some other theoretical works,
the quasi-1D and 3D FSs may couple with each other, which results in a
strongly anisotropic singlet pairing and gap nodal rings on the 3D Fermi
sphere when the local repulsion is strong enough [14].

Up to now many experimental results have suggested unconventional
superconductivity in A₂Cr₃As₃. The very large upper critical field
H_(c2) exceeding the Pauli limit may suggest a strong and unconventional
pairing mechanism [2, 3, 15, 16]. Furthermore, in K₂Cr₃As₃, it was found
that T_(c) decreases significantly with an increase of the density of
nonmagnetic impurities, which may suggest sign-reversal gaps of
superconductivity [17]. Similar conclusions were also obtained from the
absence of the Hebel-Slichter coherence peak of 1/T₁ just below T_(c) in
NMR studies [18, 19]. In addition, 1/T₁ decreases rapidly below T_(c).
following a function of T⁵ at low temperatures in Rb₂Cr₃As₃, which may
be proof of the presence of point nodes in the gap function [19]. The
possible line-nodal gap was proved by low-temperature electronic
specific-heat data [20] and the muon-spin relaxation data [21] in
K₂Cr₃As₃, as well as the penetration depth measurements in K₂Cr₃As₃ and
Rb₂Cr₃As₃[22]. Anisotropic superconductivity was observed in A₂Cr₃As₃
not only when the magnetic field was applied along or perpendicular to
the c axis but also with in-plane rotation of the field [15], and the
threefold in-plane H_(c2) modulation was observed and argued to be
related to the spin-triplet pairing [23].

The AC₃As₃ family has half the number of the alkali-metal atoms of the
A₂Cr₃As₃ family, and the space groups for these two families are
different [5, 6]. However, they both contain 1D [Cr₃As₃]_(∞) chains, but
with different ionic valences of the Cr₃As₃ units. The normal-state
electrical resistivity also has different temperature-dependent
behaviors in these two families of materials [5, 6]. Theoretical
calculation predicted that FSs are constructed by two or three quasi-1D
and two 3D bands [24, 25]. The superconducting pairing symmetry can be
triplet f or p_(z) wave or singlet s^(±) wave with different interaction
parameters [25]. The nodal superconducting gap structure in RbCr₃As₃ was
inferred from the thermal conductivity measurements, which show a
sizable value of the thermal conductivity coefficient in the
zero-temperature limit at ambient field, and the magnetic field
enhancement is clearly faster than that expected for a full-gap
superconductor [26]. However, more experiments are required to derive
the information of the superconducting gap in the Cr-based family.

Andreev reflection and single-particle tunneling measurements are very
useful and combinatorial to detect the superconducting gap. In this
work, we will present a detailed study of the superconducting gap
structure of the RbCr₃As₃ single crystals by using the point-contact
Andreev reflection (PCAR) and scanning tunneling microscopy/spectroscopy
(STM/STS) measurements. The results show the existence of two
superconducting components. The large gap has a value of about 5 meV and
shows only in the Andreev reflection spectra, while the smaller one,
with a value of about 1.8 meV, can be observed in both the Andreev
reflection and the STS measurements. We suggest that the smaller gap is
highly anisotropic or even nodal based on the fittings to the STS data.

## II Experimental methods and superconductivity characterization

The RbCr₃As₃ single crystals were grown by the deintercalation process
of Rb⁺ ions from Rb₂Cr₃As₃ precursors [6]. The samples are loosely
assembled by many needlelike single crystals with a diameter of
submicrometers to several micrometers, and the c axis is defined as the
direction along the needle main axis or the [(Cr₃As₃)⁻]_(∞) chains of
the sample. The RbCr₃As₃ samples are stable in air. The x-ray
diffraction data measured on a bundle of crystals can be found in a
previous work [6] using a Bruker single-crystal x-ray diffractometer,
and all the diffraction peaks can be well indexed with the hexagonal
space group P6₅/m.

The needlelike single crystals are loosely assembled to form a bundle,
and there is large separation between these needles; hence, direct
measurement of the cross-sectional size of a bundlelike sample induces a
very large error for determining the resistivity. In order to make a
more elegant resistivity measurement, we separate a needlelike single
crystal from a bundle of samples. The electrical resistivity was
measured in a physical property measurement system (PPMS-9, Quantum
Design) by using the standard four-probe method, and the current is
applied along the c axis of the sample. The widths and the thicknesses
of the samples are detected with a scanning electron microscope (Phenom
ProX), and typical values are from 3 to 7 μm for these samples. Figure 1
shows the temperature-dependent resistivity for a separate RbCr₃As₃
single crystal at 0 T, and the inset shows an enlarged view near the
superconducting transition. The onset transition temperature T_(c) is
7.17 K, determined from 90

Figure 1: Temperature dependence of resistivity of a separate needlelike
RbCr₃As₃ single crystal. The inset shows an enlarged view of the ρ-T
curve near the superconducting transition.

these two systems [5,6], and the resistivity increases almost linearly
with the increase of temperature in RbCr₃As₃. This feature is similar to
the one observed in cuprates, which have a typical non-Fermi-liquid
behavior [27], and it may be related to the spin scattering due to the
magnetic frustration [24] in the material. The much larger resistivity
in ACr₃As₃ than that in A₂Cr₃As₃ also needs further investigation.

The samples for PCAR or STS measurements are also divided from a bundle
of single crystals, and the typical sizes of selected samples are
300-500 μm in length and about several micrometers in width. For the
PCAR measurements, the point contact was constructed by sticking a thin
gold wire with a diameter of 16 μm to the sample by using a tiny bit of
silver paste (DuPont, 4929N), and a typical configuration is shown in
the inset of Fig. 2(a). The length of the sample in the point-contact
region was about 20 μm, and two ends of the sample were buried in silver
paste more than 100 μm in length to reduce the contact resistance of
these electrodes. Since the contact constructed by silver paste has a
finite size, the current injection may have components both parallel and
perpendicular to the [(Cr₃As₃)⁻¹]_(∞) chains. The PCAR measurements were
carried out with the PPMS-9 using a homemade setup. The ac modulation of
the differential conductance measurement is several microamperes with a
frequency of 985 Hz in the lock-in measurements.

The STS measurements were carried out in an ultrahigh vacuum,
low-temperature, and high-magnetic-field scanning tunneling microscope
(USM-1300, Unisoku Co., Ltd.). We made the STS tip with a separate
RbCr₃As₃ single crystal in the following steps. We first found a very
thin wire of the sample with tweezers and then cut off one end to get a
relatively fresh terminal for the STS tip. Afterwards, we used the
silver paste to glue most of the sample on a Pt/Ir tip and made the
newly cut prominent end face towards a flat Au(111) single-crystal flake
sample (purity of 99.999

## III Point-contact Andreev reflection results

Figure 2(a) shows the measured PCAR spectra at different temperatures
and 0 T. Since the upper critical field is very high, e.g.,
μ₀H_(c2) = 72.4 T in the zero-temperature limit and μ₀H_(c2) ≈ 52 T at 3
K for RbCr₃As₃ samples [6], the highest magnetic field of 9 T provided
by our PPMS has only a negligible influence on the spectrum at 3 K. For
this reason, we show only the temperature dependence of PCAR spectra to
investigate the superconducting gap of this material. One can see that
there are always zero-bias peaks on the spectra taken below T_(c). This
kind of peak often appears on the spectra taken by the PCAR measurements
on an unconventional superconductor, especially when the injecting
current is along the nodal direction. In cuprate superconductors, this
has been well investigated both in theory [28, 29, 30] and by
experiments [31, 32, 33]. It should be noted that there is a pair of
hump features at about ±5 meV on the spectrum measured at 3 K, and they
are marked by black arrows in Fig. 2(a). We will show that this
corresponds to the second superconducting gap in RbCr₃As₃ through the
fitting. Beside the superconducting gap features, some unexpected small
dips in dI/dV can be observed at low temperatures and energies just
above the superconducting gap energy, e.g., from 10 to 15 meV for the
spectrum measured at 3 K. The bottom energies of these dips decrease
with an increase of temperature. This kind

Figure 2: (a) Raw data of PCAR spectra measured at various temperatures
in RbCr₃As₃ sample 1. The inset shows a photograph of the point-contact
junction for the Andreev reflection measurement. The point contact is
constructed by a little bit of silver paste attached to a gold wire with
a diameter of 16 μm, and two ends of the sample are buried in the silver
paste in order to lower the contacting resistance. The junction
resistance R_(j) = 159Ω at 3 K. (b)–(e) Normalized PCAR spectra (open
circles) at 3 K divided by the one at 7 K, and the BTK fitting results
(the solid lines) with different kinds of double superconducting gaps.
For the smaller gap, the related fitting parameters are Δ_(i1) = 1 meV
and Γ_(i1) = 0.43 meV for the s-wave gap and Δ_(i1) = 1.4sin θ meV,
Γ_(i1) = 0.39 meV for the p-wave gap; for the larger gap, the related
fitting parameters are Δ_(i2) = 5 meV and Γ_(i2) = 0.65 meV for the
s-wave gap, Δ_(p2) = 6.8sin θ meV, Γ_(p2) = 0.4 meV for the p-wave gap,
and Δ_(mi − i2) = 6.4(0.2cos 2θ + 0.8) meV and Γ_(mi − i2) = 0.4 meV for
the anisotropic s-wave gap. The other fitting parameters are w₁ = 0.75
and Z₁ = Z₂ = 0.1 for the two gaps.

of dip feature seems to be very common in point-contact measurements and
was argued to be induced by the critical current effect or the heating
effect when the voltage was high and the point contact was not in the
pure ballistic limit [34]. From the temperature dependence of the
spectra, one can see that the height of the zero-bias peak decreases
with an increase of temperature, and the spectrum shape changes to a
V-shaped normal-state background when the temperature reaches 7 K
 ≈ T_(c). To get rid of the normal-state background signal, we
normalized the spectrum measured at 3 K by dividing the one measured at
7 K, and the normalized curve is shown by the open circles in Figs.
2(b)-2(e). The differential conductance at zero bias is about 1.45 times
larger than the value of the high-energy normal-state background for the
normalized spectrum at 3 K, which suggests that the barrier height of
the junction is small and the contact is closer to the Andreev
reflection (normal metal/superconductor, NS) limit instead of the
tunneling (normal metal/insulator/superconductor, NIS) limit.

In order to get in-depth understanding of superconducting gaps from the
PCAR spectra, we fit the data with the Blonder-Tinkham-Klapwijk (BTK)
theory [35]. The expression of differential conductance G = dI/dV from
BTK theory reads

$$G(V)=\int_{-\infty}^{+\infty}\frac{df(E-V,T)}{dV}[1+A(E)-B(E)]dE,$$
(1)

where f(E, T) is the Fermi distribution function and A(E) and B(E)
represent the contributions from the Andreev reflection and normal
reflection, respectively. Then the PCAR spectra can be described by the
superconducting gap Δ, the junction barrier height Z, the broadening
factor Γ, and temperature T[30]. Since there is an obvious two-gap
feature on the PCAR spectrum measured at 3 K, we use a two-gap BTK model
[36] to fit the normalized differential conductance G as

G = w₁G₁ + (1 − w₁)G₂.
(2)

Here w₁ is the weight for the smaller gap, and G₁ and G₂ are the
normalized differential conductances originating from different bands
with smaller and larger superconducting gaps, respectively. The BTK
fitting results with different kinds of superconducting gaps are shown
in Figs. 2(b)-2(e). It is found that the PCAR spectra can be well fitted
by the BTK model. For the p-wave gap, we use the gap function of
Δ_(p)sin θ. The gap minimum Δ_(min) = −Δ_(p), while the gap maximum
Δ_(max) = +Δ_(p), and then the ratio Δ_(min)/Δ_(max) = −1. For the
anisotropic-s-wave gap, we use a gap function of
Δ_(min − s)(xcos 2θ + 1 − x), and Δ_(min)/Δ_(max) = 1 − 2x, which
reflects the gap anisotropy. One can see that the fitting results are
very consistent with the measured spectra whether the smaller gap takes
an s-wave [Fig. 2(b)] or a p-wave form [Fig. 2(c)]. Therefore, we cannot
judge whether the smaller gap has the gap nodes from the fitting
results. However, for the larger gap, the p-wave gap function cannot fit
the data well with any fitting parameters, and an example is shown in
Fig. 2(d). The fitting curve deviates from the experimental data in the
ranges marked by the orange arrows. We then use the anisotropic-s-wave
gap function to fit the larger gap, and the fitting requires gap
anisotropy x ≤ 0.2 or Δ_(min)/Δ_(max) ≥ 0.6. The fitting result with
x = 0.2 is shown in Fig. 2(e). Hence, for the larger gap, a little gap
anisotropy may exist, but the possibility of the nodal gap is low from
the fitting results. In order to obtain the temperature-dependent
behavior of the superconducting gap, we use the two-gap BTK model with
different gap functions to fit the normalized PCAR spectra at different
temperatures, and the fitting results are shown in Figs. 3(a) and 3(b).
Figures 3(c) and 3(d) show the obtained temperature dependence of the
two superconducting gaps derived from the fittings, while the solid
lines are the theoretical calculations carried out using the BCS gap
model.

In order to verify our experimental results, we carried out PCAR
experiments on different samples, and the data for two other samples are
shown in Fig. 4. The normalized spectra measured in samples 2 and 3 show
a two-gap feature similar to that in sample 1, but with slightly
different gap values obtained from the fitting procedures. The spectrum
weight from the band(s) with the smaller gap is much larger than that
with the larger gap, and the weight ratios are all about 3:1.

The BTK theory can describe only the spectra measured on the contacts in
the ballistic regime, and we thus check the status of the contact
junction. The residual resistivity ρ(8 K) ≈ 259 μΩ cm in RbCr₃As₃. If we
take a simplified model of a spherical Fermi surface with average Fermi
momentum $\overline{k_{F}}=0.5\pi/a_{0}$[24, 25] and lattice constant
a₀ = 9.37 Å[6], we can estimate the mean free path l ≈ 17 nm. The
junction resistance varies from 159 to 42 in our point-contact

Figure 3: The normalized PCAR spectra (open circles) divided by the
spectrum measured at 7 K and the two-band BTK fitting results (solid
lines) by using (a) a p-wave smaller gap and an isotropic-s-wave larger
gap and (b) an isotropic-s-wave larger gap. For two different kinds of
double-gap models, the fitting parameters w₁ = 0.75 and Z₁ = Z₂ = 0.1
remain constant for all the spectra at different temperatures, while Γ₁
and Γ₂ change slightly with an increase of temperature during the
fitting procedure. Temperature dependence of the superconducting gaps
from fitting results (open symbols) by the BTK model with (c) a p-wave
smaller gap and an isotropic-s-wave larger gap and (d) two
isotropic-s-wave gaps. The solid lines are the theoretical curves from
the weak-coupling BCS model.

measurements, which corresponds to the size of the contact a from 11 to
68 nm based on the Sharvin formula $R_{\rm r}=4\rho l/(3\pi a^{2})$[37].
Here the mean free path approximately equals the contact size, which
means that the contact may be between the diffusive regime and the
ballistic regime. Although the fitting formulas are different in these
two regimes, the obtained superconducting gap values are very close to
each other [37]. In addition, the point contact usually consists of many
individual contacts which have bigger contact resistances and smaller
sizes [37]. So the contact here may still locate in the ballistic
regime.

We have two more arguments to address the reason that the point-contact
junction is not in the thermal regime. First, the differential
conductivity increases with increasing bias voltage in the
high-bias-voltage range, as shown in Fig. 2(a), which means that the
junction resistance decreases with increasing bias voltage. This
contradicts what is expected in the thermal regime of a point contact
since the contact resistance would increase due to a stronger heating
effect with larger bias voltage. In addition, the V-shaped spectra
obtained above T_(c) by PCAR measurements are similar to the ones
measured by STS. Second, the barrier height Z from the fitting procedure
is always very small for all three point-contact junctions, which means
that the contact is close to the ballistic regime or the intermediate
regime. For the reasons mentioned above, we conclude that the contact is
not in the thermal region, and we can get the correct gap information
from the measured PCAR spectra.

## IV Scanning tunneling spectroscopy results

The above-mentioned Andreev reflection results show the
two-superconducting-gap feature clearly. However, we cannot judge
whether the smaller gap is nodal or nodeless from the PCAR data and
fitting results presented above. We then take further measurements by
STS at a temperature as low as 400 mK. The needlelike sample, which was
attached to the end of the Pt/Ir tip, was used as the tip for the STS
measurements. The tunneling spectra were taken between the sample and a
flat gold flake, as illustrated by the schematic figure in the inset of
Fig. 5(b). The tunneling spectra measured at different temperatures are
displayed in Figs. 5(a) and 5(b) for samples 4 and 5, respectively. One
can see that the normal-state spectra taken above T_(c) show the V
shape, which is somewhat similar to the normal-state background obtained
by PCAR measurements. In addition, the superconducting spectra are of
the typical single-particle tunneling type with only one pair of
coherence peaks for both samples, which means that we detect mainly the
contribution from one superconducting component. We use the spectra
measured above T_(c) as the backgrounds and show the normalized spectra
at 400 mK in Figs. 6(a)-6(f) for samples 4 and 5. Then the Dynes model
[38], which can be regarded as the situation in the BTK model with
Z = ∞, was used to fit the normalized spectra

Figure 4: The normalized PCAR spectrum (open circles) for sample 2
(R_(j) = 17Ω) and the two-gap BTK fitting results (solid lines) with (a)
(p + s)-wave gaps and (b) two s-wave gaps at 3 K. The fitting parameters
for (p + s)-wave gaps are Δ_(ρ1) = 1.8sin θ meV, Δ_(ρ2) = 5.3 meV,
w₁ = 0.75, Γ_(pl) = 0.9 meV, Γ_(ρ2) = 0.7 meV, and
Z_(pl) = Z_(z2) = 0.1. The fitting parameters for two s-waves gaps are
Δ_(ρ1) = 1.3 meV, Δ_(ρ2) = 5.3 meV, w₁ = 0.75, Γ_(pl) = 0.95 meV,
Γ_(ρ2) = 0.7 meV, and Z_(z1) = Z_(z2) = 0.1. The normalized PCAR
spectrum for sample 3 (R_(j) = 42) and the BTK fitting curves with (c)
(p + s)-wave gaps at (d) two s-wave gaps at 3 K. The junction resistance
is about 4 Ω. The fitting parameters for (p + s)-wave gaps are
Δ_(pl) = 2.2sin θ meV, Δ_(Δ2) = 4.5 meV, w₁ = 0.75, Γ_(pl) = 0.32 meV,
Γ_(ρ2) = 0.35 meV, Z_(pl) = 0.28, and Z_(z2) = 0.75. The fitting
parameters for two s-wave gaps are Δ_(ρ1) = 1.7 meV, Δ_(ρ2) = 4.5 meV,
w₁ = 0.75, Γ_(pl) = 0.39 meV, Γ_(ρ2) = 0.35 meV, Z_(pl) = 0.2, and
Z_(z2) = 0.75.

Figure 5: Temperature-dependent tunneling spectra measured by scanning
tunneling microscopy at different temperatures for (a) sample 4 and (b)
sample 5. The inset in (b) displays the schematic configuration of STS
measurements, and the tunneling spectra are taken between the needlelike
sample of RbCr₃As₃ attached to the Pt/Ir tip and a flat gold flake with
a junction resistance of about 0.2 GΩ.

using different kinds of gap functions. The fitting results are also
shown in Figs. 6(a)-6(f) as solid lines. For sample 4, the zero-bias
differential conductance is as low as about 24

The STS data show the clear existence of the superconducting gap with a
gap value from 1.46 to 1.97 meV, which is consistent with the smaller
gap values from the PCAR measurements. However, the normalized zero-bias
conductance ranging from about 0.24 to 0.6 makes it difficult to
determine the precise gap function of this gap. The finite zero-bias
conductance may be attributed to the impurity scattering effect for a
nodal superconductor. Of course, the finite zero-bias conductance can
also be induced by the imperfection of the tip, and a large scattering
effect is inevitable. Although the origin for the zero-bias conductance
is unclear yet, we confidently conclude that the gap anisotropy is
necessary for the fitting procedure.

## V Discussion and Conclusion

In order to determine the coupling strength, we need to evaluate the gap
ratio 2Δ/k_(B)T_(c). For an anisotropic or nodal gap, it is better to
use the average gap value to calculate the gap ratio. Thus, we use the
formula
$\overline{\Delta}^{2}=\frac{1}{2\pi}\int_{0}^{2\pi}\Delta^{2}(\theta)d\theta$
to calculate the average gap $\overline{\Delta}$. All the obtained
average gap values are plotted in Fig. 7(a) from different fittings to
the spectra measured in different samples. The average gap values change
with gap functions or gap anisotropy ratios Δ_(min)/Δ_(max). In

Figure 7: (a) Average superconducting gap values $\overline{\Delta}$ and
their corresponding gap ratios $2\overline{\Delta}/k_{B}T_{c}$ obtained
from different samples by the fittings based on different gap functions.
The horizontal coordinate Δ_(min)/Δ_(max) reflects the anisotropy of the
gap function. The PCAR spectra measured in samples 1–3 are fitted by the
two-component BTK model, and the STS spectra measured in samples 4 and 5
are fitted by the single-gap Dynes model. The error bars of the gap
values are determined by the fitting procedure with a slight change of
other fitting parameters. The solid lines are used to schematically
connect two fitting parameters and show the range of the gap anisotropy
in which the experimental data can be well fitted by the Dynes model.
The dashed line connects the values $2\overline{\Delta}/k_{B}T_{c}=3.53$
for an s-wave gap and 3.03 for a p-wave gap predicted by weak-coupling
BCS theory. (b) Schematic image of the current injecting directions (red
arrows) for PCAR and STS measurements. (c) Schematic image of the
simplified Fermi surface of ACr₃As₃, which consists of two sets of three
flat sheets from the quasi-1D bands and two 3D sheets.

Figure 6: STS spectra (open circles) at 400 mK normalized by the one
measured (a)–(c) at 7 K for sample 4 and (d)–(f) at 8 K for sample 5.
The solid lines in (a)–(f) show different fitting curves by the Dynes
model and with different gap functions for samples 4 and 5. The
superconducting gap functions used for the fitting are plotted in the
insets of (a)–(f). The fitting parameters are (a) Δ_(s1) = 1.26 meV and
Γ_(s1) = 0.35 meV, Δ_(s2) = 0.8 meV and Γ_(s2) = 0.2 meV; (b)
Δ_(sml − s) = 1.46(0.3cos 2θ + 0.7) meV and Γ_(sml − s) = 0.24 meV; (c)
Δ_(p) = 1.56sin θ meV and Γ_(p) = 0.15 meV; (d) Δ_(s) = 1.7 meV and
Γ_(s) = 1.3 meV; (e) Δ_(m → r) = 1.58(0.05cos 2θ + 0.95) meV and
Γ_(sml − s) = 1.18 meV; and (f) Δ_(p) = 1.97sin θ meV and Γ_(p) = 0.91
meV.

Fig. 7(a), the solid lines, which just connect two data points, are used
for guidance; they cover the range of anisotropy
$\Delta_{\rm min}/\Delta_{\rm max}$ in which the experimental data can
be well fitted based on the corresponding gap function. The broadening
factor Γ used for the fitting in sample 4 is the smallest among all the
values for the fittings in other samples, and the fitting provides the
constraint that the smaller gap is highly anisotropic or even nodal. If
the smaller gap takes a nodal p-wave form as predicted by the theory,
the mean value of the average gap is
$\langle\overline{\Delta}_{pl}\rangle=1.26\pm 0.23$ meV, and the
calculated gap ratio is
$2\langle\overline{\Delta}_{pl}\rangle/k_{B}T_{c}=4.1\pm 0.8$. Such a
gap ratio is larger than 3.03 from weak-coupling BCS theory for a p-wave
gap. If the gap is an anisotropic-s-wave one with
$\Delta_{\rm min}/\Delta_{\rm max}=0.4$, the average gap value is just a
little bit larger than that from the p-wave gap fitting. For the larger
gap obtained from the PCAR spectra, it should be nodeless from the
fitting procedure, and the largest gap anisotropy corresponds to a
minimum $\Delta_{\rm min}/\Delta_{\rm max}$ value of about 0.6. If the
larger gap is an isotropic s-wave gap, the mean value of the gap is
⟨Δ_(s2)⟩ = 5.0 ± 0.43 meV, which corresponds to a gap ratio of
2⟨Δ_(s2)⟩/k_(B)T_(c) ≈ 16. This gap ratio is much larger than 3.53 from
weak-coupling BCS theory for an s-wave gap. The large values of the gap
ratio suggest strong coupling and unconventional superconductivity in
this material and could suggest a pairing probably not mediated by
phonons. We note that the recent specific heat measurements revealed a
single nodal gap in a single crystal of K₂Cr₃As₃; the corresponding
$2\overline{\Delta}/k_{B}T_{c}\approx 11.1$[20], which is also a very
large value and may be consistent with our observation of the larger gap
in RbCr₃As₃. Another penetration depth measurement reported a possible
d-wave gap with $2\overline{\Delta}/k_{B}T_{c}\approx 3.1$ in
polycrystalline K₂Cr₃As₃[39], and such a ratio is similar to the smaller
gap ratio from our measurements in RbCr₃As₃. From this point of view,
there may also be a two-gap feature in K₂Cr₃As₃, while the two gaps were
selectively detected by different measurement techniques. This is
similar to our experimental result here.

From the PCAR data, the weight of the larger gap w₂ is about (25 ± 5)%
from the fitting procedure, but this weight seems to be negligible for
the STS spectra. The possible reason for this result may be related to
the different configurations for two kinds of measurements. As shown in
Fig. 7(b), the current injection takes some stochastic directions in the
PCAR measurements, while the tunneling current is mainly along the k_(z)
direction for the STS measurements. $\rm{ACT}_{3}As_{3}$ is a typical
multiband system, and a simplified schematic image of the Fermi surface
is shown in Fig. 7(c). The Fermi surface consists of three flat sheets
from quasi-1D bands and two 3D sheets from 3D bands [24,25]. The density
of states contributed by the 3D sheets is much larger than those from
the flat sheets [24,25]. In the STS measurements, we see only one
component with a gap value comparable to the smaller one derived in the
PCAR experiments. In the STM measurements the tunneling matrix element
problem may weaken the detection of the 3D band(s) [40,41]. Here in
RbCr₃As₃, the 3D Fermi surfaces are composed of the Cr 3d_(z² − y²) and
3d_(xy) orbitals, and the 1D Fermi surfaces have the contribution from
the Cr 3d_(z²) orbital, according to the theoretical calculations
[24,25]. Therefore, it is possible that a Au single crystal with an
approximate s-wave electronic structure has a much weaker wave function
overlapping with the planar Cr 3d_(z² − y²/xy) orbital bands [42,43],
which leads to a negligible tunneling matrix element along the k_(z)
direction from the 3D Fermi surface of RbCr₃As₃. Consequently, the major
contribution of the tunneling spectra may come from the 1D Cr 3d_(z²)
orbits in STS measurements. However, the reason we cannot detect the
larger superconducting gap by STS measurements needs further theoretical
explanation. Since our measurements do not have the capability to assign
superconducting gaps to FSs in momentum space, we can conclude only that
there is a multigap feature with strong-coupling superconductivity in
RbCr₃As₃. In addition, the smaller gap, which was observed by both PCAR
and STS measurements with different configurations, is anisotropic or
even nodal, while the larger gap is nodeless. According to the
theoretical predictions, the superconducting pairing symmetry can be
triplet f or p_(z) wave or singlet s^(±) wave with different interaction
parameters [25]. Our data and fitting results provide useful information
for future theoretical work.

In summary, we observed a clear two-gap feature from PCAR measurements
in RbCr₃As₃. The gap values yielded by the fitting to the PCAR spectra
are about 1.8 and 5 meV. The larger gap may be nodeless. In the STS
measurement using the needlelike sample RbCr₃As₃ as the tip, we see,
however, only one gap with a value comparable to that of the smaller gap
yielded by the PCAR measurements. The smaller gap may be highly
anisotropic or even with gap node(s) inferred from STS measurements and
the related fitting. The absence of the larger gap in the STS
measurements may be explained by the fact that the injecting current is
mainly along the k_(z) direction. The large ratio of
$2\overline{\Delta}/k_{B}T_{c}$ suggests unconventional
superconductivity in this material.

###### Acknowledgements.

We appreciate the kind help with the PCAR measurements by C. Ren, L.
Shan, and X. Y. Hou and useful discussions with Y. Zhou, X. Lu, and Z.Y.
Wang. This work was supported by the National Key R&D Program of China
(Grant No. 2016YFA0300401), the National Natural Science Foundation of
China (Grants No. 11534005, No. 11774402), and the Strategic Priority
Research Program of the Chinese Academy of Sciences (Grant No.
XDB25000000).

## References

* [1] W. Wei, J. G. Cheng, K. Matsubayashi, P. P. Kong, F. K. Lin, C. Q.
Jin, N. L. Wang, Y. Uwatoko, and J. L. Luo, Nat. Commun. **5**, 5508
(2014). * [2] J.-K. Bao, J.-Y. Liu, C.-W. Ma, Z.-H. Meng, Z.-T. Tang,
Y.-L. Sun, H.-F. Zhai, H. Jiang, H. Bai, C.-M. Feng, Z.-A. Xu, and G.-H.
Cao, Phys. Rev. X **5**, 011013 (2015). * [3] Z. T. Tang, J. K. Bao, Y.
Liu, Y. L. Sun, A. Ablimit, H. F. Zhai, H. Jiang, C. M. Feng, Z. A. Xu,
and G. H. Cao, Phys. Rev. B **91**, 020506(R) (2015). * [4] Z. T. Tang,
J. K. Bao, Z. Wang, H. Bai, H. Jiang, Y. Liu, H. F. Zhai, C. M. Feng, Z.
A. Xu, and G. H. Cao, Sci. China Mater. **58**, 16 (2015).

* [5] Q. G. Mu, B. B. Ruan, B. J. Pan, T. Liu, J. Yu, K. Zhao, G. F.
Chen, and Z. A. Ren, Phys. Rev. B **96**, 140504(R) (2017). * [6] T.
Liu, Q. G. Mu, B. J. Pan, J. Yu, B. B. Ruan, K. Zhao, G. F. Chen, and Z.
A. Ren, Europhys. Lett. **120**, 27006 (2018). * [7] Q. G. Mu, B. B.
Ruan, B. J. Pan, T. Liu, J. Yu, K. Zhao, G. F. Chen, and Z. A. Ren,
Phys. Rev. Mater. **2**, 034803 (2018). * [8] Q.-G. Mu, B.-B. Ruan, K.
Zhao, B.-J. Pan, T. Liu, L. Shan, G.-F. Chen, and Z.-A. Ren, Sci. Bull.
**63**, 952 (2018). * [9] H. Jiang, G. H. Cao, and C. Cao, Sci. Rep.
**5**, 16054 (2015). * [10] H. T. Zhong, X. Y. Feng, H. Chen, and J. H.
Dai, Phys. Rev. Lett. **115**, 227001 (2015). * [11] X. X. Wu, F. Yang,
C. C. Le, H. Fan, and J. P. Hu, Phys. Rev. B **92**, 104511 (2015). *
[12] Y. Zhou, C. Cao, and F. C. Zhang, Sci. Bull. **62**, 208 (2017). *
[13] M. D. Watson, Y. Feng, C. W. Nicholson, C. Monney, J. M. Riley, H.
Iwasawa, K. Refson, V. Sacksteder, D. T. Adroja, J. Zhao, and M. Hoesch,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **118**, 097002 (2017). * [14] G. Wachtel and Y. B.
Kim, Phys. Rev. B **94**, 104522 (2016). * [15] G. H. Cao and Z. W. Zhu,
Chin. Phys. B **27**, 107401 (2018). * [16] F. F. Balakirev, T. Kong, M.
Jaime, R. D. McDonald, C. H. Mielke, A. Gurevich, P. C. Canfield, and S.
L. Bud’ko, Phys. Rev. B **91**, 220505(R) (2015). * [17] Y. Liu, J. K.
Bao, H. K. Zuo, A. Ablimit, Z. T. Tang, C. M. Feng, Z. W. Zhu, and G. H.
Cao, Sci. China Phys. Mech. Astron. **59**, 657402 (2016). * [18] H. Z.
Zhi, T. Imai, F. L. Ning, J. K. Bao, and G. H. Cao, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**114**, 147004 (2015). * [19] J. Yang, Z. T. Tang, G. H. Cao, and G. Q.
Zheng, Phys. Rev. Lett. **115**, 147002 (2015). * [20] Y. T. Shao, X. X.
Wu, L. Wang, Y. G. Shi, J. P. Hu, and J. L. Luo, Europhys. Lett.
**123**, 57001 (2018). * [21] D. T. Adroja, A. Bhattacharyya, M.
Telling, Y. Feng, M. Smidman, B. Pan, J. Zhao, A. D. Hillier, F. L.
Pratt, and A. M. Strydom, Phys. Rev. B **92**, 134505 (2015). * [22] G.
M. Pang, M. Smidman, W. B. Jiang, Y. G. Shi, J. K. Bao, Z. T. Tang, Z.
F. Weng, Y. F. Wang, L. Jiao, J. L. Zhang, J. L. Luo, G. H. Cao, and H.
Q. Yuan, J. Magn. Magn. Mater. **400**, 84 (2016). * [23] H. K. Zuo, J.
K. Bao, Y. Liu, J. H. Wang, Z. Jin, Z. C. Xia, L. Li, Z. Xu, J. Kang, Z.
W. Zhu, and G. H. Cao, Phys. Rev. B **95**, 014502 (2017). * [24] C.
Cao, H. Jiang, X. Y. Feng, and J. H. Dai, Phys. Rev. B **92**, 235107
(2015). * [25] L.-D. Zhang, X. Zhang, J.-J. Hao, W. Huang, and F. Yang,
Phys. Rev. B **99**, 094511 (2019). * [26] Q. Li, M.-X. Wang, T. Liu,
Q.-G. Mu, Z.-A. Ren, and S.-Y. Li, Acta Phys. Sin. **67**, 207411
(2018). * [27] O. Gunnarsson, M. Calandra, and J. E. Han, Rev. Mod.
Phys. **75**, 1085 (2003). * [28] C.-R. Hu, Phys. Rev. Lett. **72**,
1526 (1994). * [29] S. Kashiwaya, Y. Tanaka, M. Koyanagi, H. Takashima,
and K. Kajimura, Phys. Rev. B **51**, 1350 (1995). * [30] Y. Tanaka and
S. Kashiwaya, Phys. Rev. Lett. **74**, 3451 (1995). * [31] J. Y. T. Wei,
N.-C. Yeh, D. F. Garrigus, and M. Strasik, Phys. Rev. Lett. **81**, 2542
(1998). * [32] H. Aubin, L. H. Greene, Sha Jian, and D. G. Hinks, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **89**, 177001 (2002). * [33] G. Deutscher, Rev. Mod. Phys.
**77**, 109 (2005). * [34] G. Sheet, S. Mukhopadhyay, and P.
Raychaudhuri, Phys. Rev. B **69**, 134507 (2004). * [35] G. E. Blonder,
M. Tinkham, and T. M. Klapwijk, Phys. Rev. B **25**, 4515 (1982). * [36]
R. S. Gonnelli, D. Daghero, G. A. Ummarino, V. A. Stepanov, J. Jun, S.
M. Kazakov, and J. Karpinski, Phys. Rev. Lett. **89**, 247004 (2002). *
[37] D. Daghero and R. S. Gonnelli, Supercond. Sci. Technol. **23**,
043001 (2010). * [38] R. C. Dynes, V. Narayanamurti, and J. P. Garno,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **41**, 1509 (1978). * [39] G. M. Pang, M. Smidman, W.
B. Jiang, J. K. Bao, Z. F. Weng, Y. F. Wang, L. Jiao, J. L. Zhang, G. H.
Cao, and H. Q. Yuan, Phys. Rev. B **91**, 220502(R) (2015). * [40] O.
Fischer, M. Kugler, I. Maggio-Aprile, C. Berthod, and C. Renner, Rev.
Mod. Phys. **79**, 353 (2007). * [41] J. E. Hoffman, Rep. Prog. Phys.
**74**, 124513 (2011). * [42] J. Lee, M. P. Allan, M. A. Wang, J.
Farrell, S. A. Grigera, F. Baumberger, J. C. Davis, and A. P. Mackenzie,
Nat. Phys. **5**, 800 (2009). * [43] Z. Wang, D. Walkup, P. Derry, T.
Scaffidi, M. Rak, S. Vig, A. Kogar, I. Zeljkovic, A. Husain, L. H.
Santos, Y. Wang, A. Damascelli, Y. Maeno, P. Abbamonte, E. Fradkin, and
V. Madhavan, Nat. Phys. **13**, 799 (2017).
