# Rapid Communications

L. E. DeLong, V. Yeh, V. Tondiglia, and P. C. Eklund

Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of Kentucky, Lexington,
Kentucky 40506

S. E. Lambert and M. B. Maple

Institute for Pure and Applied Physical Sciences, University of
California, San Diego, La Jolla, California 92093

November 7, 2021

###### Abstract

Measurements of the pressure (_P_) dependence of the superconducting
transition temperature _T_c of KC8 and KHgC4 are reported. KC8 undergoes
a first-order transition from a _T_c = 0.13 K to a _T_c = 1.7 K phase
over the range 2 <= P <= 15 kbar. A KHgC4 sample underwent an
anomalously broad superconducting transition at ambient pressure with an
onset near 1.4 K, which is nearly double previously reported _T_c
values. The KHgC4 transition sharpened dramatically for P >= 1 kbar and
exhibited a strongly negative _dT_c/_dP_ at higher pressures. KC24 was
found to be nonsuperconducting to P = 10 kbar and T >= 0.07 K.

The layered structure of graphite intercalation compounds (GIC) and
their unique "staging" behavior,1-3 whereby each intercalant layer is
regularly spaced between groups of n carbon layers (_n_ = stage number),
suggest that it might be possible to observe "quasi-two-dimensional"
superconductivity in higher stage GIC’s.4-7 Although Hannay _et al._4
discovered superconductivity in stage-one alkali GIC’s sometime ago, no
superconductivity has been observed in these materials for n > 1, and
conflicting values of _T_c <= 0.5 K have been reported for stage-one K,
Rb, and Cs compounds studied in several different laboratories.7-10 It
is of interest to relate these facts to recent observations11,12 of
high-pressure phase transitions in KC24 and KC8.

The Hg-amalgam GIC’s have also proven to be particularly important since
superconductivity was recently observed in _stage-two_ KHgC8 (Ref. 13)
and RbHgC8 (Refs. 14 and 15) at surprisingly high _T_c’s = 1.9 and 1.5
K, respectively. The subsequent observation7 of relatively low _T_c’s
for the corresponding _stage-one_ KHgC4 (0.7 <= _T_c <= 0.9 K) and
RbHgC4 (_T_c = 1.0 K) compounds poses some perplexing questions
concerning crystal anisotropy and other factors which could govern _T_c
in these materials.4-7 For example, stage-one KHgC4 has been suggested
to have a higher electronic density of states than stage-two KHgC8,
whereas the latter compound has both a higher _T_c and greater
anisotropy of the upper critical magnetic field.7,13-15

We report the results of high-pressure _T_c measurements on stage-one
KC8 and KHgC4 and on stage-two KC24. Our data reveal strong anomalies in
both the ambient and high-pressure superconducting behaviors of the
stage-one compounds which contrast with _T_c vs P data previously
obtained6 for stage-two KHgC8. The stress- and sample-dependent effects
documented in the present study offer new insight into the phase
stability of GIC’s and the irreproducibility of their superconducting
properties. We would suggest that details of the elastic properties
and/or subtle changes in crystallographic order may be very important in
determining the _T_c’s of GIC’s, and that the "intrinsic" values of _T_c
for particular phases of these materials are still uncertain.

Very low-temperature-high-pressure experiments were carried out at P <=
10 kbar and T >= 70 mK using small miniature piston-in-cylinder clamp
devices.16 Details concerning sample preparation and additional
apparatus used to generate hydrostatic pressures P <= 20 kbar at T >=
1.3 K are described elsewhere.6 All samples were analyzed prior to
pressurization via x-ray diffraction and found to be of single stage
with appropriate _c_-axis repeat distances.

Inductive data for KC8 "sample 1" are shown for several values of
applied pressure in Fig. 1. A very sharp room-pressure superconducting
transition of width W = 6 mK was observed at _T_c = 0.130 K,17 in very
good agreement with the most recent results of other investigators.7,8
The application of a small pressure 2 kbar resulted in a severe
broadening of the transition (not shown on Fig. 1) which stretched from
an onset at 1.73 K to a termination at 0.11 K. The _T_c of a Sn
manometer could not be detected during this run (run 2), so another Sn
manometer was substituted. The KC8 sample was then remeasured at room
pressure and a single, narrow transition (_W_ = 6 mK) was again observed
at _T_c = 0.127 K. At 4.5 kbar, the transition signal again broadened
considerably with an onset near 1.71 K and a termination at 0.105 K. A
further pressurization to P = 9.7 kbar resulted in what appeared to be a
"two-step" transition consisting of an "upper _T_c" = 1.7 +- 0.1 K and a
broad "lower _T_c" = 0.5 +- 0.4 K. Such a step anomaly indicates the
presence of appreciable amounts of at least two competing phases.

Experiments on a second KC8 sample, 2, were carried out in 4He with a
larger pressure clamp,6 and the results are shown in Fig. 2. Searches
for superconductivity were conducted at room pressure, 3.4, 7.9, and
11.2 kbar, and no transition was detected to a limiting temperature =
1.30 K. Further increments in pressure to 15.5 and 19.6 kbar resulted in
observation of single, narrow transitions with W = 50-80 mK and _T_c 1.8
K. We saw no evidence for a second, lower transition at these
temperatures and pressures. The subsequent withdrawal of pressure to 1.5
kbar failed to return _T_c to values below 1.3 K. The final release of
pressure to 1 atm resulted in the absence of a transition signal at T
1.30 K.

Fuerst _et al._12 have observed a discontinuous increase in the
room-temperature c-axis electrical resistivity of KC8 at P = 15 kbar.
This result is consistent with the sudden appearance of
superconductivity at _T_c 1.7 K in sample 2 at P = 15.5 kbar. The
observation of considerable pressure-induced hystersis, and appreciable
transition broadening on the depressurizing cycle (Fig. 1), imply the
existence of a first-order phase transition at a pressure 11 <= _P_c
15.5 kbar. A plot of D_T_c = _T_c(_P_) - _T_c(0) vs P for sample 2
reveals a change in slope at a pressure _P_c 13 +- 1 kbar, which is the
basis for our estimate of the _low-temperature_ transition pressure.

The data shown in Figs. 1 and 2 suggest that small amounts of stress can
generate and metastably retain the high-pressure phase of KC8. We note
that effects due to various pressure media, sample defects, and
nonhydrostatic stresses have been discussed by several
investigators.3,11,12

Solin has suggested18 that the room-temperature transition in KC8 at 15
kbar may be due to a change in c-axis stacking sequence. If this
supposition were true, our present results imply that a rather subtle
change in crystal structure results in an _order of magnitude_ change
_T_c (i.e., 0.13-1.7 K).

Successive dilution refrigerator measurements of stage-two KC24 carried
out at pressures P = 1 bar, 2.7, 6.0, 7.5, and 10.1 kbar failed to
detect superconductivity to a limiting temperature of 70 mK. This result
has important implications for the minimum "dimensionality" requisite
for superconductivity to occur in GIC’s.4,5 Clarke _et al._11 have
concluded from high-pressure x-ray diffraction measurements that
stage-two KC24 undergoes a transformation into a mixed
stage-two-stage-three region for P >= 2 kbar, and that a pure
stage-three phase is achieved in highly oriented pyrolytic
graphite-based samples for P >= 6 kbar. Fuerst _et al._12 have observed
a discontinuous decrease in the c-axis electrical resistivity of KC24 at
P 3.5 kbar, followed by an addi

Figure 2: Superconducting transition temperature _T_c vs pressure P for
KC8 (sample 2). The data points are numbered in increasing temporal
order. The 1-bar data point (□) for sample 1 is also indicated.

Figure 1: Percent completion of the inductively measured superconducting
transition of KC8 sample 1 vs temperature T at various pressures P. The
experimental runs are numbered in temporal sequence. The Sn manometer
transition could not be detected in run 2, and those results are not
plotted.

tional step increase of the resistivity at P 7.5 kbar. Both of these
results confirm the existence of at least one first-order phase
transition at pressures well within our present experimental range.

The x-ray data [11] are consistent with the presence of a stage-one
(KC8) intercalant layer density in the high-pressure stage-three phase
of KC24.[18] If the interactions between a relatively dense intercalant
layer and the two adjacent C bounding layers dominate the occurrence of
superconductivity in GIC’s, the high-pressure stage-three phase of KC24
would be a candidate for a quasi-two-dimensional superconductor
consisting of widely spaced, dense K layers. With the reasonable
assumption that we successfully induced a substantial amount of the
stage-three phase of KC24 in the present experiments, we have found
important evidence to suggest that superconductivity cannot exist in the
quasi-independent intercalant layers for stage n > 2 GIC’s.

The results of several dilution refrigerator experiments on a stage-one
KHgC4 sample at various pressures are shown in Fig. 3. The inductive
signal from an initial room-pressure run indicated a very broad
superconducting transition with an onset near 1.42 K and a termination
near 0.85 K. The termination temperature is close to the _Tc_’s = 0.7 -
0.9 K previously reported [7] for KHgC4. However, our room-pressure
onset temperature of 1.42 K is a new and unexpected result. The
application of a modest pressure P = 0.8 kbar resulted in a remarkable
sharpening of the transition and an increase of _Tc_ to 1.49 K with W =
37 mK. Further increases in pressure resulted in sharp transitions at
successively lower temperatures as shown in Fig. 3. Above P = 0.08 kbar,
_dT__c_/_dP_ - 4.9 x 10-5 K/bar, comparable to _dT__c_/_dP_ = - 6.5 x
10-5 K/bar previously observed [6] for stage-two KHgC8. The subsequent
release of applied pressure resulted in a transition signal which was
again broad with an onset near 1.42 K, but the transition region had
narrowed from a previous value of   0.6 to 0.4 K.

The first measurement of _Tc_ vs P for a GIC was recently performed on
stage-two KHgC8.[6]Tc was found to monotonically decrease in an
anomaly-free fashion, similar to the behavior of most three-dimensional,
_sp_-metal superconductors such as Sn. In contrast, the broad
room-pressure transitions of KHgC4 shown in Fig. 3 and the sudden
pressure-induced enhancement of _Tc_, followed by a narrowing of the
transition and a decrease of _Tc_ with further applied pressure, are
similar to effects observed in other anisotropic, charge-density-wave
(CDW) materials such as NbSe3.[6, 19] It is possible that only a very
small amount of pressure is necessary to destabilize a hypothetical CDW
which could be present in KHgC4 only near P 1 bar. The presence of such
a CDW would explain the broadened and suppressed _Tc_ at room pressure
and the negative _dT__c_/_dP_ and narrower _Tc_’s observed (after the
CDW is suppressed) at high pressures.[6, 20] Further work is necessary
to directly test this interesting possibility. Similar considerations
may also apply to high-pressure _Tc_ data for KC8.[21]

We have demonstrated that high-pressure superconductivity measurements
can be a useful and convenient tool for studies of the phase stability,
staging, degree of sample perfection, and the "dimensionality" of GIC’s.
Our results have important implications for resolving discrepancies
between the ambient pressure experimental results of several
laboratories, and lend convincing support to previous observations[11,
12] of high-pressure phase transitions in KC8. A more extensive analysis
of our data in terms of recent theories[22, 23, 24] of the electronic
structure, superconductivity, and staging behavior of GIC’s will be
presented in a future publication.

## Acknowledgments

Research at the University of Kentucky was support by the U.S.
Department of Energy under Contract No. DE-AS05-81ER10936. Research at
the University of California, San Diego was supported by the U.S.
Department of Energy under Contract No. DE-AT03-76ER70227.

## References

* [1] F. R. Gamble and T. H. Geballe, in _Treatise on Solid State
Chemistry_, edited by N. B. Hannay (Plenum, New York, 1976), Vol. 3,
Chap. 2. * [2] M. S. Dresselhaus and G. Dresselhaus, Adv. Phys. 30, 139
(1981). * [3] S. A. Solin, in _Advances in Chemical Physics_, edited by
I. Prigogine and S. A. Rice (Wiley, New York, 1982), Vol. 49 pp.
455-532.

Figure 3: Percent completion of the inductively measured superconducting
transition of KHgC4 vs temperature T at various pressures P. The
experimental runs are numbered in temporal sequence.

* [14] N. B. Hannay, T. H. Geballe, B. T. Matthias, K. Andres, P.
Schmidt, and D. MacNair, Phys. Rev. Lett. 14, 225 (1965). * [15] F. J.
Salzano and M. Strongin, Phys. Rev. 153, 533 (1967). * [16] V. Yeh, L.
E. DeLong, and P. C. Eklund, Bull. Am. Phys. Soc. 27, 340 (1982); L. E.
DeLong, V. Yeh, and P. C. Eklund, Solid State Commun. (in press). * [17]
S. Tanuma, Y. Iye, and Y. Koike, in _Physics of Intercalation
Compounds_, Springer Series in Solid-State Sciences, edited by L.
Pietronero and E. Tosatti (Springer, Berlin, 1981), Vol. 38, pp.
298-309. * [18] Y. Koike, H. Suematsu, K. Higuchi, and S. Tanuma, Solid
State Commun. 27, 623 (1978); J. Phys. Chem. Solids 41, 1111 (1980). *
[19] P. Poitrenaud, Rev. Phys. Appl. 5, 275 (1970). * [20] M. Kobayashi
and I. Tsujikawa, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. 46, 1945 (1979). * [21] R. Clarke,
N. Wada, and S. A. Solin, Phys. Rev. Lett. 44, 1616 (1980); N. Wada, R.
Clarke, and S. A. Solin, Solid State Commun. 35, 675 (1980). * [22] C.
D. Fuerst, D. Moses, and J. E. Fischer, Phys. Rev. B 24, 7471 (1981). *
[23] M. G. Alexander, D. P. Goshorn, D. Guerard, P. Lagrange, M. El
Makrini, and D. G. Onn, Synth. Metals 2, 203 (1980). * [24] L. A.
Pendrys, R. Wachnik, F. L. Vogel, P. Lagrange, G. Furdin, M. E. Makrini,
and A. Herold, Solid State Commun. 38, 677 (1981). * [25] M. G.
Alexander, D. P. Goshorn, D. Guerard, P. Lagrange, M. E. Makrini, and D.
G. Onn, Solid State Commun. 38, 103 (1981). * [26] D. Wohlleben and M.
B. Maple, Rev. Sci. Instrum. 42, 1573 (1971). * [27]W is defined as the
difference between the temperatures at which the transition is 10 * [28]
A. Solin, in _Physics of Intercalation Compounds_, edited by L.
Pietronero and E. Tosatti (Springer, Berlin, 1981), Vol. 38, pp.
214-222. * [29] A. Briggs, P. Monceau, M. Nunez-Regueiro, M. Ribault,
and J. Richard, J. Phys. 42, 1453 (1981). * [30] R. H. Friend and D.
Jerome, J. Phys. C 12, 1441 (1979). * [31] L. E. DeLong and P. C.
Eklund, Synth. Metals (in press). * [32] Y. Takada, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn.
51, 63 (1982). * [33] T. Inoshita, K. Nakao, and K. Kamimura, J. Phys.
Soc. Jpn. 43, 1237 (1977). * [34] H. Kamimura, K. Nakao, T. Ohno, and T.
Inoshita, Physica (Utrecht) 99B, 401 (1980).
