# Anomalous transport properties in a YBa₂Cu₄O₈ crystal

J.-S. Zhou and J. B. Goodenough

Center for Materials Science & Engineering, ETC 9.102, University of
Texas at Austin, Austin, Texas 78712-1063

B. Dabrowski

Department of Physics, Northern Illinois University, Dekalb, Illinois
60116

13 February 1998

###### Abstract

Resistivity ρ(T) and thermoelectric power α(T) have been measured under
hydrostatic pressure on a 1

The opening of a spin gap, or pseudogap, below a temperature
T_(s) > T_(c) has been identified in several copper-oxide
superconductors.[1]T_(s) decreases as T_(c) increases with increasing
hole concentration in the underdoped superconductive CuO₂ sheets, which
has fueled speculation that the spin-spin interactions are the driving
force for the formation of superconductive Cooper pairs. If this
speculation were true, we should expect to find some change in the
transport properties at T_(s).

Stoichiometric YBa₂Cu₄O₈ (Y1248) is an underdoped p-type superconductor
containing CuO₂-Y-CuO₂ bilayers alternating along the c axis with Cu₂O₂
edge-shared double chains. As-grown Y1248 crystals are stoichiometric
and naturally detwinned. There is no oxygen loss up to 850 ^(∘)C, which
makes these crystals ideal for obtaining separate transport data for the
bilayers (a-axis measurements) and the chains plus bilayers (b-axis
measurements) as well as along the c axis. Therefore, the observation[2,
3] of a change in slope near 170 K of the a-axis resistivity ρ_(a)(T) in
Y1248 is significant. Since similar anomalies have been noted in other
underdoped copper-oxide superconductors, it was considered to be a
candidate signature of the opening of a spin gap at T_(s).[2, 4]

In Y1248, as in YBa₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) (Y123), an overlap of the
Cu(III)/Cu(II) redox energies of the chains and bilayers makes the
chains a charge reservoir of the bilayers. If the thermoelectric power
is obtained as a function of pressure and temperature along the three
crystallographic axes, it is possible to monitor the transfer of charge
between the chains and bilayers as a function of pressure as well as
temperature. We[3] have used this strategy with single-crystal Y1248 to
demonstrate that the anomaly in ρ_(a)(T) near 170 K in this cuprate is
not associated with the opening of a spin gap at T_(s) but, instead,
with a maximum in the c-axis resistance R_(c)(T). Most copper-oxide
superconductors show only an activated c-axis conductivity above T_(c),
the metallic temperature dependence of R_(c)(T) observed[3, 5] below 170
K in Y1248 is unusual. Sendyka _et al.[6]_ have revealed with
pulsed-neutron-scattering experiments the formation of fluctuating
microdomains in the Cu₂O₂ chains below 170 K and Suter _et al.[7]_ have
detected enhanced charge fluctuations in both the bilayers and chains
around 180 K with NMR and nuclear quadrupole resonance (NQR)
spectroscopies on Cu, O, and Y isotopes; the charge fluctuations mark
the onset of an electron transfer from the bilayers to the chains. The
changes in transport properties at T_(D) ≈ 170 K apparently reflect
electron coupling to cooperative structural fluctuations that enhance
c-axis electron transfer rather than the opening of a spin gap.

In this paper, we extend our previous work[3] by reporting transport
measurements made under different hydrostatic pressures on a 1

Dopants can influence T_(c) by changing the charge distribution between
the chains and CuO₂ sheets as well as by disrupting the periodic
potential in the CuO₂ sheets. In the Y123 and Y1248 crystals,
substitution for chain copper has little influence on the periodic
potential in the CuO₂ sheets whereas substitution into the sheets
suppresses T_(c) sharply. In general, trivalent cations substitute
preferentially into the chain sites and divalent cations into the CuO₂
sheets.[9] Specifically, Ni(II) ions substitute into the bilayers of
Y1248 synthesized under ambient pressure.[10] However, oxidation of the
Ni(II) to Ni(III) ions under high oxygen pressure can be expected to
remove the nickel from the bilayers to the chains. In the absence of
high-quality single crystals, previous determinations of a dopant
location have used local probes such as Mossbauer spectroscopy.[11] Here
we use transport measurements to interrogate the location of the nickel
dopant in a high-quality 1

The size of the crystal used in our transport measurements was
0.4×0.3×0.1 mm³. The b axis was in the direction of the long axis of the
crystal; the c axis was along the short direction. Four gold spots were
deposited on the corners of the crystal plate before copper wires were
attached with silver epoxy. All the transport measurements reported were
performed on the same crystal; the basic features of the data were
reproducible on other crystals. We define T₀ as the temperature below
which no voltage is resolvable with a nanovoltmeter.

The pressure experiments were carried out in a CuBe pressure cell as
reported elsewhere [14]. The pressure inside the chamber was monitored
with a coil of manganine wire. The contribution from the Cu leads was
subtracted from all the α(T) data.

Figure 1 compares the resistivities ρ_(a)(T) and ρ_(b)(T) at ambient
pressure with those reported [3] for pure Y1248. The two ρ_(a)(T) curves
are similar, each showing a change of slope near 170 K. The Ni-doped
sample has a somewhat higher resistivity and lower T_(c) , indicative of
fewer holes in the underdoped bilayers; there is no evidence of a
stronger scattering of charge carriers by nickel atoms in the bilayers.
On the other hand, the b-axis resistivity ρ_(b)(T) shows an important
change. Whereas ρ_(b)(T) for the pure Y1248 crystal shows no change of
slope on cooling through 170 K, the ρ_(b)(T) for the nickel-doped sample
is not only higher but also shows a minimum near 170 K. In the pure
crystal, a higher conductivity in the chains masks the anomaly in the
bilayer contribution to ρ_(b)(T). In the Ni-doped samples, the ρ_(b)(T)
curve clearly shows a progressive loss of chain charge carriers and/or
their mobility on cooling below 170 K, and we can unambiguously conclude
that the nickel atoms are located predominantly in the chains as Ni(III)
ions. Since retention of oxygen stoichiometry is a basic feature of the
Y1248 structure, the introduction of a higher-valence Ni(III) ion into
the Cu₂O₂ chains should increase the net electron transfer from the
chains to the bilayers, thus lowering T_(c) by reducing further the
oxidation state of the underdoped bilayers. This deduction is also
consistent with an increase with Ni doping in the a-axis thermoelectric
power α_(a) at 300 K; see Fig. 2 and discussion below. The modest
decrease in T_(c) at atmospheric pressure from 81 to 57 K with 1

From Fig. 1, the change in slope of ρ_(a)(T) for the Ni-doped sample
occurs over a somewhat broader temperature range than in the pure
crystal, but it remains centered near 160≈T_(D)≈180 K. Independence of
T_(D) on the charge distribution would be characteristic of a
lattice-driven anomaly, but not of the opening up of a spin gap.

The thermoelectric power along the b axis (Fig. 3) contains a negative
contribution from the chains and a positive contribution from the
bilayers, but the higher conductivity of the chains (Fig. 1) makes the
negative contribution dominant [3]. Within a narrow range of temperature
above T_(c) , the a- and b-axis resistivities are nearly equal. The
thermoelectric power α_(a) , however, is negligible at these
temperatures. Therefore the negative contribution dominates below room
temperature. A negative chain contribution to α(T) has been demonstrated
in Y123 [15]. Whereas α_(b)(T) for pure Y1248 has an important negative
enhancement term with a maximum near $T_{\rm max}$≈140 K [3], this
maximum is largely sup

Figure 2: (a) Thermoelectric power and (b) resistivity vs temperature
along the a axis of 1

Figure 1: Resistivity vs temperature along the a, b, c axes of 1

pressed in the Ni-doped crystal. We have shown [8] that an enhancement
of α(T) with a maximum near 140 K is a signature of superconductivity,
and indeed Fig. 2(a) shows a positive enhancement peak for the bilayers
that becomes more pronounced as T_(c) increases with pressure. This
enhancement is essentially confined to the temperature range T<300 K;
above 300 K we find a nearly temperature-independent α(T) so that α(300
K) gives a measure of the relative concentration of mobile holes in the
bilayers. In fully oxidized Y123, the chains have been shown to be
superconductive, [16] and a corresponding negative enhancement in
α_(b)(T) has been found. [15] Since the chain-only structure of Sr₂CuO₃
does not become superconductive on doping into the metallic state, [17]
the chain superconductivity in Y123 appears to be induced by coupling to
the bilayers. A similar correlation should be applicable to Y1248, and
indeed we have found a negative enhancement in α_(b)(T) in pure Y1248.
[3] In the Ni-doped crystal, the lack of a similar negative enhancement
of α_(b)(T) leads us to conclude there is a suppression of the chain
superconductivity by the Ni atoms.

Figures. 2(b) and 3(b) show that the pressure dependence of ρ_(q)(T) is
dramatic, particularly above 170 K, whereas ρ_(b)(T) is relatively
insensitive to pressure. On the other hand, the temperature T_(D) of the
anomaly is essentially unchanged. This behavior is similar to that found
for pure Y1248. [3]

In Fig. 4, the increase in the superconductive transition temperature
with pressure, dT₀/dP≈1.2 K/kbar, is the largest ever reported. A
dT₀/dP≈0.44 K/kbar for 123 is considered to be unusually high and has
been attributed to a pressure-induced electron transfer between the
chains and the bilayers in that structure. [18] We have reported a
dT₀/dP≈0.58 K/kbar for pure Y1248 and have confirmed, with
thermoelectric-power measurements, that the high value is due to a
pressure-induced transfer of electrons from the bilayers to the chains.
[3] This model should also be applicable to the Ni-doped Y1248 crystal,
and the pressure coefficient dα(300 K)/dP≈0.2μV/K kbar seen in Fig. 2(a)
confirms an exceptionally large pressure-induced charge transfer. A
smaller dα(300 K)/dP≈0.07μV/K kbar found for pure Y1248 is consistent
with its smaller dT₀/dP. Pressure stabilizes the redox energies of the
chains relative to those of the bilayers, and the exceptionally high
pressure-induced electron transfer from bilayers to chains in the
Ni-doped Y1248 implies that the Ni(III) ions of the chains are reduced
to Ni(II) ions by the application of pressure. At low temperatures, the
nickel atoms are not mobile, and the pressure-induced reduction of the
Ni(III) is reversible. From the square-coplanar configuration of the
chain sites, we would expect the Ni(II) ions in the chains to be in
their low-spin, diamagnetic state. Alternatively, the large pressure
coefficient might be attributed to a conventional charge transfer if
there is also a recovery under pressure of superconductivity in the
chains. However, the shapes of α_(b)(T) and ρ_(b)(T) in Fig. 3 change
little under pressure, which means there is no evidence of a recovery of
superconductivity in the chains.

In summary, measurements of ρ(T) and α(T) on a Ni-doped Y1248 crystal
under different hydrostatic pressures have allowed us to draw the
following conclusions: (1) In a 1

Figure 3: Same as Fig. 2 along the b axis.

sentially independent of the charge distribution between chains and
bilayers. This behavior is consistent with a structure-induced
transition and not with the opening of a spin gap. (4) The observation
of an enhancement of α_(a)(T) below 300 K that has a maximum at
$T_{\rm max}$≈140 K and increases with the superconductive transition
temperature provides one more example of the association of this
enhancement with high-temperature superconductivity in the copper
oxides. The observation that this enhancement is found for the chains in
α_(b)(T) of pure Y1248 but is suppressed in the Ni-doped Y1248 is
consistent with location of the Ni atoms in the chains where they
suppress the chain superconductivity induced, in pure Y1248, by the
bilayer superconductivity. (5) Finally, Fig. 1 shows that in the
Ni-doped sample the metallic temperature dependence of R_(c)(T) below
T_(D)≈ 170 K is retained, but that of ρ_(b)(T) is not, which indicates
that the c-axis resistivity is only weakly coupled, if at all, to the
conductivity of the chains.

The authors are grateful to the National Science Foundation Grant No.
DMR-9528826 (J.B.G.) and No. DMR-91-200000 (B.D.) for financial support.

## References

* [1] R. L. Corey _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **53**, 5907 (1996), for
example. * [2] B. Bucher _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **70**, 2012
(1993). * [3] J.-S. Zhou, J. B. Goodenough, B. Dabrowski, and K.
Rogacki, Phys. Rev. Lett. **77**, 4253 (1996). * [4] J. L. Tallon _et
al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **75**, 4114 (1995). * [5] N. E. Hussey, K.
Nozawa, H. Takagi, S. Adachi, and K. Tanabe, Phys. Rev. B **56**, R11
423 (1997). * [6] T. R. Sendyka, W. Dmowski, T. Egami, N. Seiji, H.
Yamauchi, and S. Tanaka, Phys. Rev. B **51**, 6747 (1995). * [7] A.
Suter, M. Mali, J. Roos, D. Brinkmann, J. Karpinski, and E. Kaldis,
Phys. Rev. B **56**, 5542 (1997). * [8] J.-S. Zhou and J. B. Goodenough,
Phys. Rev. B **51**, 3104 (1995); J.-S. Zhou, J. B. Goodenough, and G.
I. Bersuker, J. Supercond. **8**, 541 (1995). * [9] Y. Xu _et al._,
Physica C **169**, 205 (1990), for example in Y123; N. Watanabe, N.
Kooshizuga, N. Seiji, and H. Yamauchi, _ibid._**234**, 361 (1994), for
example in Y1248. * [10] M. Verma and V. S. Tomar, Physica C **272**,
335 (1996). * [11] M. G. Smith, J. B. Goodenough, R. D. Taylor, J. J.
Neumeier, and J. O. Willis, Physica C **222**, 159 (1994), for
example. * [12] B. Dabrowski, K. Rogacki, C. Zheng, and D. G. Hinks,
Physica C **291**, 287 (1997). * [13] B. Dabrowski (unpublished). * [14]
J.-S. Zhou and J. B. Goodenough, Phys. Rev. B **54**, 13 393 (1996). *
[15] J.-S. Zhou, J.-P. Zhou, J. B. Goodenough, and J. T. McDevitt, Phys.
Rev. B **51**, 3250 (1995). * [16] N. Klein, N. Tellman, H. Schulz, K.
Urban, S. P. Wolf, and V. Z. Kresin, Phys. Rev. Lett. **77**, 3355
(1993). * [17] W. Archibald, J.-S. Zhou, and J. B. Goodenough, Phys.
Rev. B **52**, 16 101 (1995). * [18] C. C. Almasan _et al._, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **69**, 680 (1992).
