# Superconductivity in MgPtSi: An orthorhombic variant of MgB₂

Kazutaka Kudo,^(1, 2,) Kazunori Fujimura,¹ Seiichiro Onari,¹ Hiromi
Ota,³ Minoru Nohara^(1, 2)

kudo@science.okayama-u.ac.jp ¹Department of Physics, Okayama University,
Okayama 700-8530, Japan ²Research Center of New Functional Materials for
Energy Production, Storage, and Transport, Okayama University, Okayama
700-8530, Japan ³Division of Instrumental Analysis, Department of
Instrumental Analysis and Cryogenics, Advanced Science Research Center,
Okayama University, Okayama 700-8530, Japan

###### Abstract

A ternary compound, MgPtSi, was synthesized by solid-state reaction. An
examination of the compound by powder x-ray diffraction revealed that it
crystallizes in the orthorhombic TiNiSi-type structure with the Pnma
space group. The structure comprises alternately stacked layers of Mg
and PtSi honeycomb network, which is reminiscent of MgB₂, and the
buckling of the honeycomb network causes orthorhombic distortion.
Electrical and magnetic studies revealed that MgPtSi exhibited
superconductivity with a transition temperature of 2.5 K. However, its
isostructural compounds, namely, MgRhSi and MgIrSi, were not found to
exhibit superconductivity.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.91.174514

## I Introduction

Compounds with honeycomb structures and their derivatives often exhibit
intriguing superconductivity, which partly stems from the lack of
spatial inversion symmetry and the presence of strong spin-orbit
coupling. For example, chiral d-wave superconductivity [1], triplet
f-wave superconductivity [2], and their combination [3] have been
theoretically predicted to be characteristic of SrPtAs. This prediction
is the subject of ongoing experimental confirmation [4,5]. The
superconductivity of Ru_(1 − x)Rh_(x)P emerges around the critical point
of the pseudo-gap phase on the verge of the metal-insulator transition
[6], while that of CrAs emerges at the helimagnetic quantum critical
point [7,8]. Furthermore, the coexistence of superconductivity and a
ferromagnetic order, as well as magnetic-field-reentrant
superconductivity, has been observed in UCoGe [9] and URhGe [10,11].

The honeycomb structure is best exemplified by MgB₂, which crystallizes
in the AlB₂-type structure (P6/mmm, No. 191) and is a superconductor
with a transition temperature $T_{\rm c}$ of 39 K [12]. As an ordered
variant of the AlB₂-type structure, the Ni₂In-type structure (P6₃/mmc,
No. 194) is formed when Ni and In atoms are substituted for B to form
ordered NiIn honeycomb layers, and the remaining Ni atoms are
substituted for the Al atoms positioned between them. The replacement of
the interlayer Ni in this structure with another element results in the
KZnAs-type structure (P6₃/mmc, No. 194). This crystal structure is found
in the aforementioned SrPtAs, which has a $T_{\rm c}$ of 2.4 K [13].
Another ordered variant of the AlB₂-type structure is the SrPtSb-type
structure ($P\bar{6}m2$, No. 187). 1H-CaAlSi, which exhibits this latter
structure, is characterized by superconductivity at a relatively high
$T_{\rm c}$ of 6.5 K [14,15]. Furthermore, the removal of the in-plane
Ni atoms in the above-mentioned Ni₂In-type structure produces the
NiAs-type structure (P6₃/mmc, No. 194), from which the MnP-type
structure (Pnma, No. 62) can then be obtained by orthorhombic
distortion. IfGe ($T_{\rm c}$ = 4.7 K) [16], the aforementioned
Ru_(1 − x)Rh_(x)P ($T_{\rm c}$ = 3.7 K) [6], and CrAs ($T_{\rm c}$ = 2.2
K under hydrostatic pressure) [7,8] crystallize in the MnP-type
structure. The TiNiSi-type structure (Pnma, No. 62) is another
orthorhombic variant of the AlB₂-type structure that is derived from the
distortion of the Ni₂In-type structure. Examples of compounds with the
TiNiSi-type structure are Mg(Mg_(1 − x)Al_(x))Si ($T_{\rm c}$∼ 6 K)
[17], the aforementioned UCoGe ($T_{\rm c}$ = 0.8 K) [9], and URhGe
($T_{\rm c}$ = 0.25 K) [10], the distorted honeycomb layers of which are
composed of (Mg_(1 − x)Al_(x))Si, CoGe, and RhGe, respectively. Thus,
the derivatives of the AlB₂-type structure afford researchers the
opportunity to explore novel superconducting materials.

In this paper, we report the superconductivity of the compound MgPtSi.
Powder x-ray diffraction (XRD) analysis conducted on the synthesized
compound revealed that it crystallizes in the orthorhombic TiNiSi-type
structure (Pnma space group), as shown in Fig. 1. This structure
consists of buckled honeycomb layers of PtSi alternated with layers of
Mg to form an orthorhombic variant of MgB₂, which has regular honeycomb
layers composed of boron atoms. Electrical and magnetic measurements
revealed the superconductivity of MgPtSi at a $T_{\rm c}$ of 2.5 K.

## II Experimental

Polycrystalline samples of MgPtSi were synthesized by heating a mixture
of Mg₂Si, Pt, and Si powders with a ratio of Mg:Pt:Si of 10:7:25. The
mixture was placed in an alumina crucible and sealed in a quartz tube
under partial Ar pressure to minimize Mg evaporation during the
reaction. The samples were heated at 1000 degC for 12 h, and this was
followed by furnace cooling, which yielded MgPtSi together with a
significant amount of Si. No other impurities were present. The use of
other synthesis conditions produced several impurities such as Pt, PtSi,
Mg₂Si, Mg₂Pt, Mg₂PtSi, Mg₅Pt₁₀Si₁₆, and other unidentified substances.
None of these impurities exhibited superconductivity down to 1.8 K. The
structures of the MgPtSi samples were examined by powder XRD using a
Rigaku RINT-TTR III x-ray diffractometer with CuK_(α) radiation.
Rietveld refinement was performed using the RiterAN-FP program [18] and
the magnetization M was measured using the Quantum Design Magnetic
Property Measurement System (MPMS). The electrical resistivity ρ was
measured using the Quantum Design Physical Property Measurement System
(PPMS).

## III Results and discussion

### Structure

As shown in Fig. 2, it was possible to refine the powder XRD profile of
the obtained sample based on the orthorhombic TiNiSi-type structure with
the Pnma space group (No. 62). The observed peaks, which had intensities
as high as 10⁵ counts, clearly confirm the TiNiSi-type structure, as can
be seen from Fig. 2(b), although the several peaks are due to the
elemental Si, which has the $Fm\bar{3}m$ space group (No. 225). The
weight ratio of MgPtSi:Si was estimated to be 15:85 for the sample used
in the structural analysis. The obtained crystallographic data of the
MgPtSi are summarized in Table 1. Partial substitution of Mg in the Pt
sites, as was observed in the case of Mg(Al_(1 − x)Mg_(x))Si [17], was
not found in the present compound.

From the crystal structure of MgPtSi shown in Fig. 1, it can be seen
that Pt and Si alternately occupy sites in the honeycomb network. This
is apparent from the b-c projection of the structure shown in Fig. 1(a).
Mg is located between the honeycomb layers. In addition, the honeycomb
layers exhibit buckling along the crystallographic c axis, and this
causes orthorhombic distortion. The buckling of adjacent PtSi layers
occurs in opposite directions along the a axis, resulting in the
formation of interlayer chemical bonds between Pt and Si along this
axis, as is apparent from the a-c projection of the crystal structure
shown in Fig. 1(b). The length (2.597 A) of the Pt-Si bond between the
honeycomb layers is comparable to those within the honeycomb layers
(2.241 and 2.529 A), suggesting that the structure can be viewed as a
three-dimensional network composed of Pt and Si, rather than a
two-dimensional honeycomb network.

Three types of buckling are known to occur in the honeycomb network with
the TiNiSi-type structure [19]. They are "chair"-type buckling, in which
one atom in the honeycomb hexagon is displaced upward while the atom
positioned on the opposite side of the hexagon is displaced downward;
"boat"-type buckling, in which both atoms are displaced in the same
direction; and "half-chair"-type buckling, in which only one atom is
displaced. The buckling that occurs in MgPtSi is of the chair type, as
can be observed from Fig. 1(b), while Mg(Mg_(1 − x)Al_(x))Si exhibits
boat-type buckling [17].

  Site   Atom    g      x/a      y/b      z/c      100U (Å²)
  ------ ------ --- ----------- ----- ----------- -----------
  4c     Mg      1   −0.020(2)   1/4   0.693(2)     0.3(4)
  4c     Pt      1   0.1788(3)   1/4   0.0658(3)    0.8(2)
  4c     Si      1   0.289(2)    1/4   0.361(2)     1.2(4)

Table 1: Rietveld-refined MgPtSi structural parameters at 300 K, for the
orthorhombic structure with the Pnma space group (No. 62). a = 6.5324(3)
Å, b = 4.1005(2) Å, and c = 7.1752(4) Å. Occupancy, atomic coordination,
and isotropic atomic displacement parameter are listed. The weighted
residual of the least-squares refinement R_(wp) is 9.826

Figure 1: (Color online) Crystal structure of TiNiSi-type MgPtSi with
the Pnma space group (No. 62) viewed along the (a) a axis and (b) b
axis. The solid lines indicate the unit cell.

Figure 2: (Color online) (a) Powder XRD pattern of MgPtSi obtained at
room temperature, and its Rietveld refinement. (b) Enlarged view showing
peaks with intensities of up to 0.1 × 10⁶ counts. The red circles, black
line, and blue line indicate the observed, calculated, and difference
profiles, respectively. The green and gray ticks respectively indicate
the calculated Bragg diffraction positions of the MgPtSi with the Pnma
space group and Si with $Fm\bar{3}m$. These two phases are taken into
account in the calculated profile.

### Superconductivity

Figure 3(a) shows the temperature dependence of ρ for MgPtSi under
zero-field conditions. The resistivity was metallic in character and
dropped sharply below 2.97 K, as is typical of transition to
superconductivity. Zero resistivity was observed at 2.52 K, and the 10

The $T_{\rm c}$ value for MgPtSi decreases with increasing magnetic
field and disappears at 5000 Oe, as shown in Fig. 3(b). The magnetic
field dependence of ρ indicates that MgPtSi is a type-II superconductor.
Figure 5 shows the temperature dependence of the upper critical field
$H_{\rm c2}$, which was determined from the midpoint of the resistive
transition. It can be seen that at low temperatures below 2.35 K,
$H_{\rm c2}$ increases almost linearly with decreasing temperature, down
to 1.86 K. By linear extrapolation, we estimated $H_{\rm c2}$ at 0 K
[i.e., $H_{\rm c2}(0)$] to be 6360 Oe. The Ginzburg-Landau coherence
length ξ(0) was also estimated to be 230 A based on the relationship
$\xi(0)=[\Phi_{0}/2\pi\,H_{\rm c2}(0)]^{1/2}$, where Φ₀ is the magnetic
flux quantum. It is worth noting here that close inspection near
$T_{\rm c}$ revealed an upward curvature of $H_{\rm c2}(T)$, suggesting
multiband/multigap superconductivity of the present compound. A similar
but more prominent behavior has been reported for MgB₂[20, 21].

The emergence of superconductivity in MgPtSi may be related to the
occurrence of structural instability. The superconductivity of many
compounds with the AlB₂-type structure has been found to emerge close to
the structural phase transition. Examples of such compounds are
Sr(Al,Si)₂[22, 23], Sr(Ga,Si)₂[24, 25], SrNi₃Si_(2 − x)[26], and
BaTM_(x)Si_(2 − x) (TM = Pd, Pt, Cu, Ag, and Au) [27]. These compounds
are on the verge of structural phase transition to the cubic SrSi₂-type
structure (_P_4,32, No. 212), and their superconducting AlB₂-type
structure is stabilized by partial chemical substitutions for Si.
Analogous structural instability toward a cubic phase can be inferred
for the present MgPtSi based on the consideration of the structural
transition of CaPtSi under high pressure [28]. It should be noted that
Mg and Ca are both isoelectronic elements, which justifies the following
comparison. CaPtSi crystallizes in the cubic LaIrSi-type structure
(_P_2,3, No. 198), which is a derivative of the SrSi₂-type structure,
and transforms to the orthorhombic TiNiSi-type structure at high
pressures of 3-4 GPa [28]. Because the ionic radius of

Figure 4: (Color online) Temperature dependence of magnetization divided
by magnetic field, M/H, for MgPtSi in a magnetic field of 10 Oe under
zero-field and field cooling conditions.

Figure 5: (Color online) Temperature dependence of upper critical field
$H_{\rm c2}$ of MgPtSi determined by resistivity measurements. The
broken line represents the linear extrapolation.

Figure 3: (Color online) Temperature dependence of electrical
resistivity ρ of MgPtSi in (a) zero field and (b) magnetic fields of up
to 5000 Oe.

Mg²⁺ (0.72 A) is significantly smaller than that of Ca²⁺ (1.00 A), the
substitution of Mg for Ca results in the generation of a large chemical
pressure, and MgPtSi can thus be regarded as a high-pressure analog of
CapFSi. In other words, the TiNiSi-type structure of MgPtSi becomes
unstable on the verge of transition to the cubic-phase LalFiSi-type
structure. We thus predict that the partial substitution of Ca for Mg
would amplify this structural instability and thereby increase the
superconducting transition temperature of MgPtSi. However, the results
of our preliminary experiments suggested that Ca doping actually
decreased the $T_{\rm c}$ to 2.2 K. This might have been due to the
disorder caused by the large difference between the ionic radii of Mg
and Ca.

Another means of increasing $T_{\rm c}$ is by controlling the number of
charge carriers. We implemented this procedure by substituting Rh and Ir
for Pt to reduce the number of valence electrons by one and successfully
obtained two isostructural compounds, namely, MgRhSi and MgIrSi. In this
case, the lattice parameters were a = 6.5719(2) and 6.5740(3) A, b =
4.0110(1) and 4.0149(2) A, and c = 6.9798(3) and 6.9693(4) A, for MgRhSi
and MgIrSi, respectively. These compounds did not exhibit
superconductivity, at least down to 1.8 K. In contrast, the partial
substitution of Au for Pt to increase the number of valence electrons
resulted in an increase of the $T_{\rm c}$ of Mg(Pt_(1 − x)Au_(x))Si to
2.9 K with a nominal x value of 0.5. These results cannot be understood
in terms of the change in the electronic density of states (DOS) at the
Fermi level ($E_{\rm F}$) after chemical doping, which invokes a change
in the Fermi surface topology or nesting, as discussed below.

### Electronic band structure

In this section, we present the results of first-principles calculations
for MgPtSi obtained by the wien2k package [29]. The structural
parameters in Table 1 were used for the calculations. An examination of
the electronic DOS in Fig. 6 reveals a strong Pt-5d character at
$E_{\rm F}$ and almost the same amounts of interstitials, while the
contributions of Mg and Si are very small. This contrasts markedly with
the case of MgB₂, in which the B-2p orbitals dominate the Fermi level
together with the interstitials [30], and the charge carriers in the
strongly covalent B-2p-q bands enhance the coupling to high-energy
optical phonons, resulting in a relatively high $T_{\rm c}$ of 39 K
[31]. In MgAlSi, which has a buckled honeycomb layer of AlSi, both the
3s and 3p orbitals of Al and Si contribute to a relatively large DOS of
approximately 5 states/eV at $E_{\rm F}$, resulting in a $T_{\rm c}$ of
≃ 6 K [17]. In the present MgPtSi, a small DOS of 3.1 states/eV with a
strong Pt-5d character, which produces a weak electron-phonon coupling,
is the most probable reason for the lower $T_{\rm c}$ of 2.5 K.

Although the Pt-Si network is fairly three-dimensional owing to the
Pt-Si chemical bonds formed between the buckled PtSi honeycomb layers,
an essentially two-dimensional Fermi surface exists in MgPtSi. This
suggests that the PtSi honeycomb layers can be considered as the primary
conducting layers. The Fermi surface is almost cylindrical at the Γ
point, as shown in Fig. 7(a), and contains several three-dimensional
shapes, as shown in Figs. 7(b)-7(d). This is reminiscent of the Fermi
surface of MgB₂, which is cylindrical at the Γ point and contains a
three-dimensional tabular network [30]. However, the strong Pt-5d
character of MgPtSi produces a low $T_{\rm c}$. It is our expectation
that if the Pt-Si bonds between the honeycomb layers of MgPtSi are
broken, the Fermi surface would become more two-dimensional and the
$T_{\rm c}$ would increase. Nevertheless, the $T_{\rm c}$ would be much
lower than that of MgB₂ because of the weaker electron-phonon coupling
of MgPtSi.

Finally, we argue the nonsuperconductivity of MgRhSi and MgIrSi. With
the assumption of a rigid band [32], we estimate that MgRhSi and MgIrSi
have an $E_{\rm F}$ that is approximately 1.1 eV lower than that of
MgPtSi, and that their DOSs are approximately 4.9 states/eV. Relatively
higher DOSs of MgRhSi and MgIrSi compared to MgPtSi would also cause
their $T_{\rm c}$ values to be higher. The absence of superconductivity
in MgRhSi

Figure 6: (Color online) (a) Total and (b) partial electronic density of
states of MgPtSi. Fermi level $E_{\rm F}$ = 0 eV. The spin-orbit (SO)
interaction has not been taken into consideration. We have checked that
little modification results from considering the SO interaction of Pt.

Figure 7: (Color online) Fermi surface of MgPtSi obtained by the wien2k
package.

and MgIrSi is thus significant, and the topological modification of the
Fermi surfaces of these compounds by Rh (Ir) substitution for Pt may be
used to reverse the condition.

## IV Conclusions

A ternary compound, MgPtSi, was developed by conventional solid-state
reaction, and electrical and magnetic measurements revealed its
superconductivity at a relatively low transition temperature T_(c) of
2.5 K. The crystal structure of the compound consists of alternately
stacked PtSi honeycomb layers and Mg layers, and the buckling of the
honeycomb layers induces the formation of Pt-Si chemical bonds between
them. The formation of these bonds makes MgPtSi into a three-dimensional
analog of MgB₂, which has a T_(c) of 39 K. There are a large number of
compounds that have the AlB₂-type structural class, and this makes the
structure worthy of further exploration with the purpose of discovering
and investigating the properties of new superconducting materials.

## Acknowledgment

This work was partially supported by Grants-in-Aid from the Japan
Society for the Promotion of Science (JSPS) (Grants No. 25400372 and No.
26287082).

## References

* [1] M. H. Fischer, T. Neupert, C. Platt, A. P. Schnyder, W. Hanke, J.
Goryo, R. Thomale, and M. Sigrist, Phys. Rev. B **89**, 020509(R)
(2014). * [2] W.-S. Wang, Y. Yang, and Q.-H. Wang, Phys. Rev. B **90**,
094514 (2014). * [3] J. Goryo, M. H. Fischer, and M. Sigrist, Phys. Rev.
B **86**, 100507(R) (2012). * [4] P. K. Biswas, H. Luetkens, T. Neupert,
T. Sturzer, C. Baines, G. Pascua, A. P. Schnyder, M. H. Fischer, J.
Goryo, M. R. Lees, H. Maeter, F. Bruckner, H.-H. Klauss, M. Nicklas, P.
J. Baker, A. D. Hillier, M. Sigrist, A. Amato, and D. Johrendt, Phys.
Rev. B **87**, 180503(R) (2013). * [5] K. Matano, K. Arima, S. Maeda, Y.
Nishikubo, K. Kudo, M. Nohara, and G.-q. Zheng, Phys. Rev. B **89**,
140504(R) (2014). * [6] D. Hirai, T. Takayama, D. Hashizume, and H.
Takagi, Phys. Rev. B **85**, 140509(R) (2012). * [7] W. Wu, J. Cheng, K.
Matsubayashi, P. Kong, F. Lin, C. Jin, N. Wang, Y. Uwatoko, and J. Luo,
Nat. Commun. **5**, 5508 (2014). * [8] H. Kotegawa, S. Nakahara, H. Tou,
and H. Sugawara, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **83**, 093702 (2014). * [9] N. T.
Huy, A. Gasparini, D. E. de Nijs, Y. Huang, J. C. P. Klaasse, T.
Gortenmulder, A. de Visser, A. Hamann, T. Gorlach, and H. v. Lohneysen,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **99**, 067006 (2007). * [10] D. Aoki, A. Huxley, E.
Ressouche, D. Braithwaite, J. Flouquet, J.-P. Brison, E. Lhotel, and C.
Paulsen, Nature **413**, 613 (2001). * [11] D. Aoki, G. Knebel, and J.
Flouquet, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **83**, 094719 (2014). * [12] J. Nagamatsu,
N. Nakagawa, T. Muranaka, Y. Zenitani, and J. Akimitsu, Nature **410**,
63 (2001). * [13] Y. Nishikubo, K. Kudo, and M. Nohara, J. Phys. Soc.
Jpn. **80**, 055002 (2011). * [14] M. Imai, K. Nishida, T. Kimura, and
H. Abe, Appl. Phys. Lett. **80**, 1019 (2002). * [15] S. Kuroiwa, H.
Sagayama, T. Kakiuchi, H. Sawa, Y. Noda, and J. Akimitsu, Phys. Rev. B
**74**, 014517 (2006). * [16] D. Hirai, M. N. Ali, and R. J. Cava, J.
Phys. Soc. Jpn. **82**, 124701 (2013). * [17] S. Ji, M. Tanaka, S.
Zhang, and S. Yamanaka, Inorg. Chem. **51**, 10300 (2012). * [18] F.
Izumi and K. Momma, Solid State Phenom. **130**, 15 (2007). * [19] G. A.
Landrum, R. Hoffmann, J. Evers, and H. Boysen, Inorg. Chem. **37**, 5754
(1998). * [20] A. Gurevich, Physica C **456**, 160 (2007). * [21] A.
Gurevich, Phys. Rev. B **67**, 184515 (2003). * [22] B. Lorenz, J.
Lenzi, J. Cmaidalka, R. L. Meng, Y. Y. Sun, Y. Y. Xue, and C. W. Chu,
Physica C **383**, 191 (2002). * [23] M. J. Evans, Y. Wu, V. F. Kranak,
N. Newman, A. Reller, F. J. Garcia-Garcia, and U. Haussermann, Phys.
Rev. B **80**, 064514 (2009). * [24] M. Imai, E. Abe, J. Ye, K. Nishida,
T. Kimura, K. Honma, H. Abe, and H. Kitazawa, Phys. Rev. Lett. **87**,
077003 (2001). * [25] R. L. Meng, B. Lorenz, Y. S. Wang, J. Cmaidalka,
Y. Y. Sun, Y. Y. Xue, J. K. Meen, and C. W. Chu, Physica C **382**, 113
(2002). * [26] S. Pyon, K. Kudo, and M. Nohara, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn.
**81**, 023702 (2012). * [27] K. Kawashima, K. Inoue, T. Ishikawa, M.
Fukuma, M. Yoshikawa, and J. Akimitsu, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **81**, 114717
(2012). * [28] J. Evers, G. Oehlinger, K. Polborn, and B. Sendlinger, J.
Solid State Chem. **103**, 45 (1993). * [29] P. Blaha, K. Schwarz, G. K.
H. Madsen, D. Kvasnicka, and J. Luitz, wien2k, An Augmented Plane Wave +
Local Orbitals Program for Calculating Crystal Properties (Vienna
University of Technology), 2001. * [30] J. Kortus, I. I. Mazin, K. D.
Belashchenko, V. P. Antropov, and L. L. Boyer, Phys. Rev. Lett. **86**,
4656 (2001). * [31] H. J. Choi, D. Roundy, H. Sun, M. L. Cohen, and S.
G. Louie, Nature **418**, 758 (2002). * [32] The atomic positions of
MgRhSi and MgIrSi were not reliably refined in the XRD profiles because
of the obstructive peaks of the impurity phases. Thus we used a ridged
band picture to estimate the DOSs of MgRhSi and MgIrSi.
