# Anisotropy, pinning, and the mixed-state Hall effect

T. W. Clinton, A. W. Smith, Qi Li, J. L. Peng, R. L. Greene, and C. J.
Lobb

Center for Superconductivity Research, Department of Physics, University
of Maryland, College Park, Maryland 20742

M. Eddy

Superconductor Technologies Inc., Santa Barbara, California 93111

C. C. Tsuei

IBM Research Division, Thomas J. Watson Research Center, Yorktown
Heights, New York 10598

26 June 1995

###### Abstract

We have studied the mixed-state Hall effect of the high-T_(c)
superconductors Nd_(1.85)Ce_(0.15)CuO₄ (NCCO), Tl₂Ba₂CaCu₂O₈ (Tl2212),
and YBa₂Cu₃O₇ (YBCO), and the isotropic low-T_(c) superconductor
amorphous Mo₃Si (_a_-Mo₃Si). We demonstrate the pinning independence of
the Hall conductivity σ_(xy) and its consequent scaling in terms of the
anisotropy of NCCO, Tl2212, and YBCO. In YBCO and _a_-Mo₃Si the Hall
angle is enhanced as we reduce the effective pinning, yet σ_(xy) is
unchanged. For all of these materials there is a vortex contribution
σ_(xy)∼1/H at low fields while at high fields σ_(xy)∼H. These results
provide evidence that beneath the effects of pinning and anisotropy a
relatively simple and universal behavior of the mixed-state Hall effect
exists.

The transport properties of superconductors in the vortex state, though
widely studied, still present many puzzles. In particular, a wide range
of both high-T_(c) and low-T_(c) materials show a sign change of the
Hall effect below T_(c).[1] In the mixed state, vortices moving with
velocity **v** generate a spatially averaged electric field according to
Josephson’s relation E =  − v × B.[2] When the flux lines are pinned a
transport current flows around the vortices with no energy loss (E = 0).
However, when the vortices move current passes through the vortex core,
dissipating energy and generating a Hall voltage. In the simplest models
this leads to a mixed-state Hall effect of the same sign as in the
normal state.[34]

A difficulty in developing a model of the mixed-state Hall effect, in
addition to predicting a sign change, is that a wide variety of
temperature and field dependences have been reported,[1] at least partly
due to the range of pinning strengths and anisotropy in these materials.
In fact, recent models have suggested the sign change is related to the
specific properties of flux pinning[5] or layered structures.[6, 7] In
this report, we account for anisotropy and demonstrate that the Hall
conductivity σ_(xy) is _independent of pinning_, strongly suggesting
that neither pinning nor anisotropic structures are the origin of the
sign anomaly. In addition, the Hall conductivity for a variety of
superconductors, both anisotropic high T_(c) and isotropic low T_(c),
has a contribution σ_(xy) ∼ 1/H which is presumably intrinsic to vortex
dynamics.[4, 8, 9]

We measure the longitudinal voltage V_(xx) and the Hall voltage V_(xy)
with the transport current in the _ab_ plane perpendicular to the
magnetic field (up to 9 T). The magnetic field is ramped from high to
low fields at both polarities with the temperature fixed; V_(xy) is the
component of the transverse voltage odd in applied field. The sample
mount has a rotating stage for changing the field direction, a
magnetic-field-insensitive Cernox metal film thermometer, and a carbon
glass thermometer with a calibration in magnetic field. The
Tl₂Ba₂CaCu₂O₈ (Tl2212) sample is a _c_-axis oriented 5000-A-thick film
prepared by laser ablation from a single target followed by
post-deposition heat processing with T_(c) ≡104 K and j_(c) ≈ 10⁶A/cm²
at 77 K. The Nd_(1.85)Ce_(0.15)CuO₄ (NCCO) measurements were made on a
_c_-axis oriented 20-μm-thick single crystal with T_(c) ≡ 24 K (details
of the preparation are given in Ref. [10]). The YBa₂Cu₃O₇ (YBCO)
measurements were made on a _c_-axis oriented 1000-A-thick film grown by
pulsed laser ablation with T_(c) ≡ 92 K. The amorphous Mo₃Si (_a_-Mo₃Si)
sample is an isotropic amorphous film of 250-A thickness with
T_(c) ≡ 7.5 K; details of the sample preparation and characterization
are given in Refs. [11] and [12].

An interesting way to vary the transport properties of anisotropic
materials is to change the magnetic field direction.[13] For our
measurements we rotate the sample, varying the angle θ between the c
axis and the field, while keeping the current and field perpendicular to
each other. In Fig. 1(a) we show the in-plane longitudinal resistivity,
ρ_(xx) vs H, measured on our NCCO single crystal at T = 16 K for
θ = 0^(∘), 30^(∘), 50^(∘), and 70^(∘). As θ increases the ρ_(xx) vs H
transitions move out to higher fields, reflecting the increase in H_(c2)
as the field is directed into the _ab_ plane. The effective mass
anisotropy ratio is defined as
Γ = m_(c)/m_(ab) = (H_(c2)^(†)/H_(c2)^(†))² = ξ_(ab)²/ξ_(c2)² ≈ 10³ for
NCCO,[14] where H_(c2)^(†) (∝ 1/ξ_(ab)ξ_(c)) and H_(c2)^(†)
(∝ 1/ξ_(ab)²) correspond to H_(c2) with the field applied parallel and
perpendicular to the _ab_ plane, respectively. In Fig. 1(b) we plot
ρ_(xx) vs Hcos θ. The data for all θ collapse very nicely to a single
curve, indicating that only the field component parallel to the c axis
(Hcos θ) is contributing to the dissipation. We have observed the
scaling of ρ_(xx) with Hcos θ from T = 19 K down to T = 4 K, which is
the temperature range of our measurements. We have not pursued the high
angle regime, θ → 90^(∘), where various two-dimensional[15] (2D) and
anisotropic 3D models[16, 17] are distinguishable, as done on
Bi2212,[18] for example. Our primary interest is to point out that the
field component along the c axis is dictating the vortex dynamics.

Also shown in Fig. 1(b) is the Hall resistivity ρ_(xy) vs Hcos θ for
T = 16 K. The scaling with Hcos θ indicates that the in-plane Hall
effect, and in particular the sign anomaly, arises strictly from vortex
segments aligned parallel to the c axis. In the normal state ρ_(xy)
scales with Hcos θ for all materials, whereas in the mixed state of a
superconductor this simple scaling form is only expected to hold in the
large anisotropy limit.[16, 17] In the limit of large anisotropy (and θ
not too near 90^(∘)), 3D anisotropic-mass models predict
F_(ij)(H, θ) = F_(ij)(Hcos θ), where F is a transport quantity such as
resistivity ρ or conductivity σ and ij = xx or ij = xy.

As can be seen in Fig. 1, both ρ_(xx) and ρ_(xy) become imeasantly small
below a minimum field $\mu_{\rm o}H_{\rm min}\!\approx\!\frac{1}{2}$ T
due to flux pinning. To observe free-flux flow at low currents it is
necessary to go into a regime where the pinning potential is weak
($H\!\!\approx\!\!H_{\rm min}$). However, $H_{\rm min}(T)$ is the same
order of magnitude as $H_{\rm c2}(T)$, even in relatively low-pinning
materials. High-current densities can be used to suppress pinning,[12,
19] but it is difficult to increase the current density without heating
in single crystals. An alternative is to measure a pinning-independent
quantity, such as predicted for σ_(xy),[20, 21] which still elucidates
the essential physics.

In Fig. 2(a) we report the data from Fig. 1 as σ_(xy) vs $H_{\rm z}$
(σ_(xy) vs Hcos θ), where σ_(xy) = ρ_(xy)/(ρ_(xx)² + ρ_(xy)²). The
dashed curve is a fit to σ_(xy) = c₁/H_(z) + c₂H_(x), yielding
σ_(xy) = 95 (T/Ω cm)/$\mu_{\rm o}H_{z}\!-\!40$ (1/T Ω
cm)$\mu_{\rm o}H_{z}$. The linear contribution to σ_(xy) has the same
sign and field dependence as the normal-state Hall conductivity. The
coefficient of the 1/H term is opposite in sign to the normal state,
thus this term leads to a sign reversal. Several models predict a vortex
contribution to the Hall conductivity of the form σ_(xy) ∼ 1/B,[4, 8, 9]
we note in our experiments $B\!\cong\!\mu_{\rm o}H$. Nozieres and
Vinen[4] suggest this form, but with a coefficient of the same sign as
in the normal state. Based on time-dependent Ginzburg-Landau (TDGL)
theory, Dorsey[8] and Kopnin[9] argue that for
H   ≪  H_(c2)σ_(xy)  ∼  1/B, as flux flow dominates the conductivity,
and allow a sign change depending on electronic structure. They go on to
argue that near $H_{\rm c2}$ the conductivity is the normal-state
conductivity plus a correction due to vortex motion which decreases as
H_(c2) − B.[8, 9] A convenient way to interpolate between the low- and
high-field regimes is to write σ_(xy) = c₁/B + c₂B, which models our
data reasonably well, but we note that this additive form for σ_(xy) is
not a consequence of TDGL theory.

We observe similar results for Tl2212 [Γ  ∼  10⁴ (Ref. [22]) both in the
angular dependence as well as the field dependence of the Hall
conductivity. Displayed in Fig. 2(b) is σ_(xy) vs Hcos θ for Tl2212 at
T = 96 K and θ = 0^(∘), 30^(∘), 50^(∘), and 70^(∘). The dashed curve is
given by σ_(xy)  =  − 54 (T/Ω cm)/$\mu_{\rm o}H_{z}\!+\!2$ (1/T Ω
cm)$\mu_{\rm o}H_{z}$. We have made similar measurements from T = 98 to
70 K, and over this temperature range the form of the low field
divergence in σ_(xy) varies from diverging slower than 1/H at high
temperatures to diverging faster at our lowest temperatures. Samoilov
_et al.[23]_ have also measured σ_(xy) in the mixed state of Tl2212,
where they fit σ_(xy) to 1/H at low fields.

Based on the anisotropic-mass model of Ref. [16], the anisotropy has the
same effect as reducing the field component

Figure 1: (a) Longitudinal resistivity ρ_(xx) vs H at T = 16 K, for
several tilts of the field in a single crystal of Nd_(1.85)Ce_(0.15)CuO
(NCCO) with T_(c) = 24 K. The angle θ is measured with respect to the c
axis. (b) ρ_(xx) and ρ_(xy) vs Hcos θ (the field component along the c
axis).

in the superconducting planes. Thus in the limit of very large
anisotropy, such as in NCCO and TI2212, scaling behavior with
H_(z) = Hcos θ is expected. YBCO, which is closer to being isotropic
than NCCO or TI2212, has a less obvious scaling behavior. The more
general result of Ref. [16] says that the field should be scaled to
$\tilde{H}\!=\!H\!\sqrt{\cos^{2}\!\theta\!+\!\Gamma^{-1}\!\sin^{2}\!\theta}$,
and that there is a scaling factor H_(z)/H̃ for the Hall components of
the conductivity and resistivity tensors, where again Γ is the effective
mass anisotropy ratio. In Fig. 3(a) we plot tan θ̃_(H) = tan θ_(H)H̃/H_(z)
vs H̃ for θ  =  0^(∘), 40^(∘), and 55^(∘) at T = 87 K, and Γ = 39 for our
YBCO film. From the figure it is clear that the Hall angle increases as
the field is tilted away from the c axis, similar to the angular
dependence of ρ_(xy) in YBCO.[6] The enhancement may be due to a
weakening of pinning by defects, as it has been argued that tan θ_(H),
and similarly ρ_(xx) and ρ_(xy), depend on pinning,[20; 21] and pinning
by defects is anisotropic, being weaker when the field is directed into
the ab plane.[16] The enhancement vanishes as H  →  H_(c2), presumably
due to less flux pinning and a larger quasiparticle contribution to the
Hall effect at high fields. In contrast, the enhancement is difficult to
observe in NCCO and TI2212, where, as a result of their large
anisotropies the extrinsic pinning will be noticeably weaker only when
the field is directed nearly parallel to the plane (θ  ∼  90^(∘)).
Unfortunately, within the field limit of our magnet (9 T) the signals
are too small at these angles to observe this effect.

To understand how vortex motion is affected by pinning we consider the
work of Vinokur, Geshkenbein, Feigel’man, and Blatter (VGFB),[20] who
have argued that macroscopically the appropriate equation of motion for
each vortex is

$$\eta\nu\!+\!\alpha\nu\!\times\!\hat{\bf n}\!=\!\phi_{\rm d}\!]\!\times\!\hat{ \bf n}\!+\!\langle F_{\rm piz}\rangle,$$
(1)

where η is the viscous-drag coefficient associated with dissipation in
the mixed state, ${\bf j}$ is the transport current density,
$\hat{\bf n}$ is a unit vector in the direction of the magnetic field,
${\bf v}$ is the average vortex velocity, α determines the sign and the
magnitude of the Hall angle in the absence of pinning by the relation
tan  θ_(H) = α/η, ϕ₀ = h/2e is the flux quantum, and
$\langle F_{\rm piz}\rangle$ is the average pinning force. VGFB further
argue that the average pinning force can be replaced by a term which, to
leading order, is linear in the vortex velocity,

$$[\,\eta\!+\!\gamma(v)\,]\!\nu\!+\!\alpha\nu\!\times\!\hat{\bf n}\!=\!\phi_{\rm d }\!]\!\times\!\hat{\bf n},$$
(2)

so that pinning has the effect of renormalizing the drag coefficient,
η → η + γ(v). Therefore, tan  θ_(H) = α/η → α/[ η]+ γ(v) will change as
pinning is varied. The Hall conductivity σ_(xy) = α/ϕ₀B is predicted to
be _independent of pinning_.

In Fig. 3(b) we plot the scaled Hall conductivity σ̃_(xy) = σ_(xy)H̃/H_(z)
vs H̃. As can be seen from the figure the data for all θ collapse to a
single curve using one adjustable parameter Γ = 39 (ξ_(ab) = 6ξ_(c), in
agreement with other measurements[24]). Similar results have been
previously reported by Harris _et al.[7]_ In light of the behavior of
tan  θ̃_(H) in Fig. 3(a), the scaling of the Hall conductivity is
remarkable, and adds credence to the idea that σ_(xy) does not depend on
disorder.[20; 21] The dashed curve is given by σ̃_(xy) =  − 14 26 (T/Ω
cm)/μ₀H̃ + 57 (1/ΓΩ cm)/μ₀H̃, similar to the behavior we observe in NCCO
and TI2212. In all our thin-film YBCO samples we observe the deviation
of the data from the low end of the dashed curve, i.e., deviation from
1/H. We observe similar results closer to T_(c), as well as down to our

Figure 4: (a) Nonohmic tangθ_(H) vs H in an a-Mo₃Si film at T = 3.7 K
(T_(c)  = 7.5 K) for current densities j = 2.6 to 52 KA/cm² all in
excess of j_(c). (b) Nonohmic σ_(xy) vs H_(z) over the same range of
currents as above. (Inset) −σ_(xy) vs H on a log-log scale for the same
range of currents. The solid curve has slope of −1.

lowest temperatures, T = 83 K. At low fields the pinning is strongest,
thus these results may signal that σ_(xy) has some disorder dependence
in the strong-pinning limit.[25] More work is in progress to resolve
this issue.

Next we consider our high-current measurements on low-pinning _a_-Mo₃Si
as an alternative probe to test the disorder independence of σ_(xy). The
most direct way to verify the predictions for tanθ_(H) and σ_(xy) within
the theoretical framework of VGFB is with high currents. The increase of
the transport-current density d gives the vortices to higher velocities
**v** via the Lorentz force ϕ₀**j**×**$\hat{\textbf{n}}$**, thus
reducing the pinning parameter γ(v) ($\times 1/\sqrt{v}$, for
example[20]). _a_-Mo₃Si is ideal for this purpose because of its very
small depinning current density (j_(c)∼ 1000 A/cm² at T = 4.2 K and 1
T < μ₀_H_< 4 T), which is easily exceeded with minimal sample heating
(≤15 mW/cm²). At high fields where the sample resistance is
significantly larger we use a pulsed (20 μs) current technique to
further avoid heating. In Fig. 4(a) we plot tanθ_(H) vs H at T = 3.7 K
for a range of current densities all in excess of j_(c) (in the nonohmic
regime). We observe a large increase in the Hall angle with increasing
current density, similar to that observed in YBCO as the field is
rotated into the plane (Fig. 3). Another similarity between tanθ_(H) in
Figs. 3 and 4 is the vanishing of the enhancement as H →_H__(c2).

In Fig. 4(b) we show σ_(xy) vs H at the same current densities as in
Fig. 4(a). Remarkably, σ_(xy) is independent of the current density, an
excellent confirmation of the pinning independence of σ_(xy). This
result casts serious doubt on theories which invoke pinning to explain
the sign anomaly.[5] (The deviation at j = 52 kA/cm² is a result of j
approaching the depairing critical current j₀, so T_(c) is slightly
suppressed.) The log-log scale in the inset indicates that over more
than a decade of our lowest fields σ_(xy)∼ 1/_H_ (the solid curve has
slope − 1), and extends to fields nearly two orders of magnitude smaller
than μ₀μ_(c2)≈ 7.5 T. Our measurements at both lower and higher
temperatures (_T_ = 7 and 1.4 K) are consistent with these results.

In summary, we have shown that the angular dependence of the Hall
conductivity for the anisotropic superconductors NCCO, TI2212, and YBCO
can be scaled in terms of their anisotropy. This is possible, in
particular for YBCO, because the effects of pinning drop out of σ_(xy) .
We further demonstrated the pinning independence of σ_(xy) using
high-current densities on _a_-Mo₃Si. The implications of this result are
quite important as the Hall conductivity presents experiments with a
measurable transport quantity which is not clouded by extrinsic pinning
effects. This result, in particular, contradicts theories which explain
the sign anomaly as a pinning effect.[5] Finally, our data provides
evidence for a universal low-field behavior of σ_(xy)∼ 1/_H_, as
predicted for vortex dynamics.[4, 8, 9]

We thank C. Kwon, S. N. Mao, and I. Takeuchi for providing us with
additional thin films. Research at UMD is supported by NSF Grant Nos.
DMR9510475 and DMR9510464.

## References

* [1] S. J. Hagen _et al._ Phys. Rev. B **47**, 1064 (1993), and
references therein. * [2] B. D. Josephson, Phys. Lett. **16**, 242
(1965). * [3] J. Bardeen and M. J. Stephen, Phys. Rev. **140**, A1197
(1965). * [4] P. Nozieres and W. F. Vinen, Philos. Mag. **14**, 667
(1966). * [5] Z. D. Wang, Jinming Dong, and C. S. Ting, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**72**, 3875 (1994). * [6] J. M. Harris, N. P. Ong, and Y. F. Yan, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **71**, 1455 (1993). * [7] J. M. Harris, N. P. Ong, and Y. F.
Yan, Phys. Rev. Lett. **73**, 610 (1994). In this article they retract
the model proposed in Ref. [6] which explained the sign change in YBCO
in terms of its layered structure. * [8] Alan T. Dorsey, Phys. Rev. B
**46**, 8376 (1992); Robert J. Troy, and Alan T. Dorsey, _ibid._**47**,
2715 (1993). * [9] N. B. Kopnin, B. I. Ivlev, and V. A. Kalatsky, J. Low
Temp. Phys. **90**, 1 (1993). * [10] J. L. Peng, Z. Y. Li, and R. L.
Greene, Physica C **177**, 79 (1991). * [11] P. H. Kes and C. C. Tsuei,
Phys. Rev. B **28**, 5126 (1983). * [12] A. W. Smith, T. W. Clinton, C.
C. Tsuei, and C. J. Lobb, Phys. Rev. B **49**, 12 927 (1994). * [13] T.
W. Clinton, A. W. Smith, J. L. Peng, M. Eddy, R. L. Greene, and C. J.
Lobb, in Proceedings of the Fourth International Conference on the
Materials and Mechanisms of High Temperature Superconductors, Grenoble,
France, 1994 [Physica C **235-240**, 1375 (1994)]. * [14] Minoru Suzuki
and Makoto Hikita, Phys. Rev. B **41**, 9566 (1990). * [15] M. Tinkham,
Phys. Rev. **129**, 2413 (1963); P. H. Kes, J. Aarts, V. M. Vinokur, and
C. J. van der Beek, Phys. Rev. Lett. **64**, 1063 (1990). * [16] G.
Blatter, V. B. Geshkenbein, and A. I. Larkin, Phys. Rev. Lett. **68**,
875 (1992); V. B. Geshkenbein and A. I. Larkin, _ibid._**73**, 609
(1994). * [17] Zhidong Hao and John R. Clem, Phys. Rev. B **46**, 5853
(1992); Zhidong Hao and Chia-Ren Hu (unpublished). * [18] H. Raffy S.
Labdi, O. Laborde, and P. Monceau, Phys. Rev. Lett. **66**, 2515 (1991);
R. Fastampa, S. Sarti, E. Silva, and E. Milani, Phys. Rev. B **49**, 15
959 (1994). * [19] Milind N. Kunchur, David K. Christen, and Julia M.
Phillips, Phys. Rev. Lett. **70**, 998 (1993). * [20] V. M. Vinokur, V.
B. Geshkenbein, M. V. Feigel’man, and G. Blatter, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**71**, 1242 (1993). * [21] Wu Liu, T. W. Clinton, and C. J. Lobb, this
issue, Phys. Rev. B **52**, 7482 (1995). * [22] K. E. Gray, R. T.
Kampwirth, and D. E. Farrell, Phys. Rev. B **41**, 819 (1990). * [23] A.
V. Samoilov, Z. G. Ivanov, and L.-G. Johansson, Phys. Rev. B **49**,
3667 (1994). * [24] D. E. Farrell, J. P. Rice, D. M. Ginsberg, and J. Z.
Liu, Phys. Rev. Lett. **64**, 1573 (1990). * [25] Vinokur _et al._ (Ref.
[20]) argue on symmetry grounds that α is not renormalized by pinning,
and thus the disorder independence of σ_(xy) may hold in the strong
pinning limit. Wu Liu _et al._ (Ref. [21]) perturbatively calculate the
effects of _weak_ pinning and find to the first nonvanishing order of
the perturbation calculation that α is not renormalized by pinning.
