# Specific heat of an anisotropic superconductor: Nb3X4 with X = S, Se,
and Te

Hiroyuki Okamoto, Hiromi Taniguti, and Yutaka Ishihara

Department of Physics, Faculty of Science, Kanazawa University, Kanazawa
920-11, Japan

1 May 1995; revised manuscript received 8 September 1995

###### Abstract

The specific heats of Nb3S4, Nb3Se4, and Nb3Te4 were measured in the
temperature range from 0.5 to 30 K. The magnitude of the jump at the
superconducting transition temperature T_(c) was 1.11 +- 0.02 _gT__c_
for Nb3S4 and 0.66 +- 0.01 _gT__c_ for Nb3Se4. The superconducting
property for both compounds is discussed on the basis of the
weak-coupling BCS theory as extended by Clem to include the effects of
energy-gap anisotropy. We estimated the mean-squared anisotropy
⟨a²⟩ = 0.07 + −0.02 and the reduced-energy gap 2_e__f_(_k__B__T_) = 3.1
+- 0.1 for Nb3S4, and ⟨a²⟩ = 0.14 + −0.03 and 2_e__g_/(_k__B__T_) = 2.8
+- 0.1 for Nb3Se4. For Nb3Te4, although it becomes superconducting at
about 2 K in the electrical-resistivity measurement, an excess of
specific heat due to the superconducting transition was not found down
to about 0.5 K. We also discuss the superconducting property of Nb3Te4.

## I Introduction

A number of transition-metal chalcogenides crystallizes in fiber
structures [1] which become superconducting at low temperatures [2,3] or
undergo phase transitions due to charge-density-wave (CDW) formation.
Owing to the characteristic behavior of CDW’s, the properties on
charge-density waves have been studied intensively [4]. However, there
has been little reliable information on the thermodynamic properties of
those superconductors. This is because only small single crystals are
available and their superconducting transition temperatures are much
lower than those of usual superconductors. Niobium chalcogenide Nb3X4
with X = S, Se, and Te is one of those kinds of superconductors and has
a moderate high transition temperature [5]. These compounds are,
therefore, suitable matters for studying the thermodynamic properties in
the superconducting states.

The crystal structures of Nb3X4 are isomorphous with each other and
belong to a hexagonal crystal system [6, 7, 8]. The unit cells contain
six niobium atoms and eight chalcogens. Each niobium is surrounded by
six chalcogens at the corner of a deformed octahedron consisted of
Nb3C6. The niobium atoms are shifted from the centers of the octahedra
in the direction of faces sharing two edges with other octahedra. Hence
zigzag Nb-Nb chains are formed along the c axis. The Nb-Nb distances in
the chains (_d_1 = 2.881, 2.885, and 2.973 A for X = S, Se, and Te) are
comparable to the corresponding value in niobium metal (2.859 A), while
the shortest Nb-Nb distances d1 between Nb chains are 3.369, 3.567, and
3.854 A for X = S, Se, and Te. The ratios of d1 d1 are 1.169, 1.236, and
1.298 in the above order. Hence the anisotropy of the crystal structures
increases according to the above order. This large anisotropy leads to
weak coupling. Another remarkable feature of the Nb3X4 structure is the
presence of large infinite void channels along the c axis.

Reflecting the above-mentioned characteristic of the crystal structure,
Nb3X4 shows high anisotropy in the electrical properties such as
resistivity [9] and critical field [10, 11, 12]. Furthermore, the
electrical resistivity in both Nb3S4 (Ref. [9]) and Nb3Se4 (Ref. [11])
follows a T3 form below about 80 K which can be explained by the umklapp
scattering process in the quasi-one-dimensional band structure [13]. The
thermoelectric power and resistivity of Nb3Te4 show two anomalies at
about 20 and 80 K [14]. The anomaly at 80 K is due to a
charge-density-wave formation with commensurate-wave vectors [15,16].
However, a superlattice corresponding to the anomaly at 20 K has not
been observed yet. The specific heat of Nb3S4 has been measured by
Biberacher and Schwenk [10]. In addition, the thermodynamic properties
in the superconducting state of Nb3S4 have been studied in detail by
Okamoto and Ishihara [17]. These properties also show high anisotropies
and follow the weak-coupling BCS theory included the effects of an
energy-gap anisotropy.

Associated with Nb3X4, owing to the presence of three Nb chains in the
unit cell, there exist three conduction bands and corresponding three
Fermi surfaces. A calculation of the energy-band structure for Nb3X4 has
been made in detail by Oshiyama using the
linear-combination-of-atomic-orbital method [13,18]. The calculated
Fermi surfaces are reflected the quasi-one-dimensional crystal
structures of those crystals: These Fermi surfaces consist of warped
planelike sheets. The bandwidths along the chain direction are highly
dispersive and are in the range of 1.5-2.5 eV, while those along the
interchain directions are quite flat and are of the order of 0.1 eV. The
ratios of the conduction-band width along the chain direction to that
along the perpendicular direction are 15, 18, and 19 for Nb3S4, Nb3Se4,
and Nb3Te4. Bullet [19] and Canadell and Whangbo [20] have also obtained
similar results for the band structure of Nb3S4 using an atomic-orbital
method and a tight-binding method.

In this paper we report the specific heats on Nb3S4, Nb3Se4, and Nb3Te4
in the temperature range from 0.5 to 30 K. In an earlier work, two of
us, on Nb3S4, measured the specific heat in the temperature range from
1.4 to 7 K and obtained the thermodynamic parameters for the
superconducting property [17]. The purpose of this work is to measure
systematically the specific heat to determine the thermodynamic
properties of Nb3X4. Since the previous work on Nb3S4 did not apply a
magnetic field, the specific-heat measurement was reexamined to improve
the accuracy under a magnetic field. We also present a comparison of the
experimental results with BCS predictions for both Nb3S4 and Nb3Se4. As
a result, we clarify the anisotropy and weak- coupling effects. Further,
we discuss the superconducting property of Nb₃Te₄.

## II Experimental Procedure

Single crystals of Nb₃X₄ were prepared by an iodine vapor transport
method following Nakada and Ishihara [21, 22] on the basis of the
earlier work of Ruysink _et al._[7] Grown crystals were always fibers.
The crystals were examined by Weissenberg-photography analysis and were
identified to be Nb₃S₄, Nb₃Se₄, and Nb₃Te₄. Needlelike crystals were
elongated parallel to the c axis, which were confirmed by an x-ray
oscillation photography method.

The specific heat of Nb₃X₄ was measured using a thermal-relaxation
method [23] in the temperature range from 1.4 to 30 K for Nb₃S₄ and from
0.5 to 30 K for both Nb₃Se₄ and Nb₃Te₄. The measurement was carried out
in both zero magnetic field and a magnetic field of 14 kOe. The magnetic
field was applied perpendicular to the c axis. For this direction to the
crystal axis of the applied field, Nb₃X₄ has the lowest value of the
upper critical field H_(c2): about 5 kOe at 0 K for Nb₃S₄. [10] Several
single crystals of total mass of about 50 mg were greased to a sapphire
bolometer with the addenda contributing about 10

As a test of the measurement apparatus, we measured the specific heat of
an indium sample weighing 47 mg at temperatures between 1.5 and 9 K. The
purity of the indium sample was 99.999

## III Results

Figure 1 shows the temperature dependence of the specific heat C of
Nb₃S₄ plotted as C/T vs T², where open and solid circles are data in
zero magnetic field and in a field of 14 kOe. In Fig. 1, the data for
this compound have been plotted on an expanded scale for the temperature
range below 5.5 K. The jump ΔC at T_(c) =3.78 K in the specific heat for
zero field is due to the superconducting transition. The midpoint of the
jump is defined as the superconducting-transition temperature T_(c) .
This value is slightly small compared to that (T_(c) =4.0 K in Ref. [5])
determined by the measurement of the electrical resistivity. The width
of the transition temperature is 0.14 K. The specific heat in the normal
state is given by

C = γT + βT³

in the temperature range from 1.4 to 13 K. The solid line in Fig. 1
represents the least-squares fit of this equation to the data under the
magnetic field with γ =13.6 ±0.1 mJ/(mol K2) and β =0.328 ±0.004 mJ/(mol
K4). The magnitude of the normalized jump ΔC/(γT_(c)) is 1.11 ± 0.02.
The Debye temperature is given by
Θ_(D)   =(12/5)/($\pi^{\ \  15% smaller than that of Biberacher and Schwenk (15.6 mJ/mol K2). The magnitude of \(g\) is somewhat different from sample to sample and appears to be sensitive to the quality of the sample used.

Figure 2 shows the temperature dependence of the specific heat of Nb3Se4 plotted as _C_/_T_ vs \(T$2,
where open and solid circles are data in zero magnetic field and in a
field of 14 kOe. In Fig. 2, the data for Nb3Se4 have been plotted on an
expanded scale for the temperature range below 3.2 K. The jump at _T_c =
2.31 K in the specific heat for zero field is also due to the
superconducting transition. The transition temperature was determined in
the same way as Nb3S4. However, the value is somewhat larger than that
(_T_c = 2.0 K in Ref. 5) determined by the measurement of the electrical
resistivity. The width of the transition temperature is about 0.2 K. The
specific heat in the normal state is given by Eq. (1) in the temperature
range from 1.4 to 7 K. The solid line in Fig. 2 is the least-squares fit
of Eq. (1) to the data under a magnetic field with g = 21.4 +- 0.2
mJ/(mol K2) and b = 1.27 +- 0.02 mJ/(mol K4). The magnitude of
D_C_/(g_T_c) is 0.66 +- 0.01. The results of our measurement for Nb3Se4
are shown in Tables 1 and 2. From these results we estimated the values
of Ph_D_, l, and _D_(e_F) in the same way as Nb3S4, as shown in Table 1.

Figure 3 shows the temperature dependence of the specific heat of Nb3Te4
plotted as _C_/_T_ vs T2. Open and solid circles are data for zero
magnetic field and a magnetic field of 14 kOe. Solid line shows the
least-squares fit to data 0.5 to 2.1 K given by _C_/_T_ = _g_/_T_2 with
g = 18.7 +- 0.8 mJ/(mol K2) and b = 11.4 +- 0.3 mJ/(mol K4).

provement of the accuracy, because the temperature range that Eq. (1)
holds true expands from T_(c) to lower temperature. Figure 5 shows the
deviation D(t) of h = H_(c)(t)/H_(c)(0) from the parabolic law plotted
as D(t) vs t², where D(t) = h − (1 − t²) and t = T/T_(c). In this
figure, solid and open circles are D(t) for Nb3S4 and Nb3Se4; here, the
BCS prediction is shown by open squares for comparison. The absolute
values of D(t) increase in the following order: BCS prediction, Nb3S4,
Nb3Se4. The values of H_(c)(0) for Nb3S4 and Nb3Se4 are shown in Table
2.

## IV Discussion

The specific-heat jump of Nb3S4 (1.11γT_(c)) is substantially small as
compared with the BCS value of 1.43γT_(c),[26] while that of Nb3Se4
(0.66γT_(c)) is less than half of the BCS value. The values of λ for
Nb3X₄ are close to the weak-coupling limit compared to λ≡0.8 of Nb (Ref.
[25]) and NbSe2,[27] which are considered to be intermediate
strong-coupling superconductors. The curves of D(t) for both Nb3S4 and
Nb3Se4 lie below that of the BCS isotropic-gap model. Such behavior can,
therefore, be treated within the weak-coupling BCS theory. In
weak-coupling superconductors, these phenomena are interpreted in terms
of the presence of an energy-gap anisotropy: When the energy gap is
anisotropic, there is a thermal selection of participating
quasiparticles. At lower temperature, electrons related to the smaller
energy gap can be contributed to the electronic specific heat. Clem has
calculated the effects of an anisotropic-energy gap on the thermodynamic
properties of superconductors.[28] His results lead to the following
modifications in the thermodynamic properties of the BCS prediction:

2 e₀/(k_(B)T_(c)) = 3.528(1 − 3 ⟨a²⟩/2),
(4)

2 π γ {T_(c)/H_(c)(0)}² = 1.057(1 + 2 ⟨a²⟩),
(5)

Δ C/(γT_(c)) = 1.426(1 − 4 ⟨a²⟩),
(6)

where e₀ is the averaged energy gap at 0 K and ⟨a²⟩, the mean-squared
anisotropy, is the average over the Fermi surface of the square of the
deviation of the energy-gap parameter from its average. The values of
⟨a²⟩ calculated from Eqs. (5) and (6) are 0.07 and 0.06 for Nb3S4 and
are 0.15 and 0.13 for Nb3Se4. Both compounds have much larger
mean-squared anisotropies than that of the layer compound 2H-NbSe2
(⟨a²⟩≡0.04).[27] The value of ⟨a²⟩ increases in the order of increasing
lattice anisotropy in these compounds. Hence these large values may be
due to the filamentary nature of these compounds. Using the average
value of ⟨a²⟩ = 0.07 ± 0.02 for Nb3S4 and ⟨a²⟩ = 0.14 ± 0.03 for Nb3Se4,
the values of 2ε₀/(k_(B)T_(c)) are obtained to be 3.1±0.1 for Nb3S4 and
2.8±0.1 for Nb3Se4. These values are listed in Table 2.

As mentioned above, Nb3Te4 becomes superconducting at about 2 K in the
electrical-resistivity measurement. Nevertheless, the specific heat in
Nb3Te4 changed smoothly and continuously with temperature down to about
0.5 K and did not show a characteristic of superconducting transition
near T_(c). Further, in order to investigate the thermodynamic state of
Nb3Te4, the magnetization of Nb3Te4 was measured by an ac mutual
inductance method down to about 0.5 K. No trace of a Meissner effect was
observed down to 1.4 K, and the effect occurred appreciably below about
1.4 K. The susceptibility nearly saturated at 0.6 K and reached about 90

The crystal structure of Nb3Te4 consists of Nb chains running along the
c axis, as described in Sec. I. The distance between the Nb atoms in a
chain is metallic, but the interchain distance exceeds the metallic
distance. Hence Nb3Te4 is regarded as an aggregate of one-dimensional
chains that are weakly coupled through Josephson-type junctions. In such
a superconductor, ac susceptibility measurements can lead to quite
erroneous results due to filamentary superconductivity. Very small
superconducting volume fractions may shield the entire sample if the
superconducting regions are physically connected by such as Josephson
junctions. On the contrary, specific-heat measurements detect only true
bulk

Figure 4: Temperature dependence of H_(c)(T). Solid and open circles are
data for Nb3S4 and Nb3Se4.

superconductivity. For this reason, the result of the specific-heat
measurement at low temperatures indicates that the superconductivity of
Nb₃Te₄ is filamentary. We intend to study in more detail the
susceptibility of Nb₃Te₄ in order to test this hypothesis.

Now we consider the thermodynamic state of Nb₃Te₄ at low temperatures.
Since the Meissner effect was not observed down to 1.4 K and the
magnitude of the upper critical field[12] is substantially smaller than
the applied field, the specific heat above 1.4 K under a magnetic field
is that of the normal state. Furthermore, the specific heat below 1.4 K
can be regarded as that of the normal state with a good approximation.
This is because the specific heat below 1.4 K can be expressed by
extrapolation of the straight line approximation for the normal state in
Fig. 3.

In summary, we measured the specific heats of Nb₃S₄, Nb₃Se₄, and Nb₃Te₄
in the normal and superconducting states. The magnitude of the
specific-heat jump decreased in the order Nb₃S₄, Nb₃Se₄. The behavior of
the specific heat in the superconducting state for both Nb₃S₄ and Nb₃Se₄
may be accounted for by the weak-coupling BCS theory included an
anisotropic-energy gap. The mean-squared anisotropies ⟨a²⟩ are 0.07±0.02
and 0.14±0.03 for Nb₃S₄ and Nb₃Se₄. The normalized energy gaps
2_e₀_/(_k_(B)T_(c)_) are 3.1±0.1 and 2.8±0.1 for Nb₃S₄ and Nb₃Se₄. Such
thermodynamic behavior indicates that both compounds are highly
anisotropic and weak-coupling superconductors. Detailed confirmation of
this interpretation will require studies of the energy gap of Nb₃S₄ and
Nb₃Se₄ through the measurements of the specific heat with a high
accuracy down to more low temperature, tunneling spectroscopy
measurements, or other techniques which yield less of a macroscopic
average than the specific heat. In Nb₃Te₄, no trace of the
superconducting transition was found in the specific heat down to about
0.5 K. This result indicates that Nb₃Te₄ is a filamentary
superconductor.

## References

* [1] See, for example, _Extended Linear Chain Compounds_, edited by J.
S. Miller (Plenum, New York, 1982). * [2] R. L. Greene, G. B. Street,
and L. J. Suter, Phys. Rev. Lett. **34**, 577 (1975). * [3] W. W.
Fuller, P. N. Chaikin, and N. P. Ong, Phys. Rev. B **24**, 1333
(1981). * [4] See, for example, _Electronic Properties of Inorganic
Quasi ID Compounds_, edited by P. Monceau (Reidel, Dordrecht, 1985). *
[5] E. Amberger, K. Polborn, M. Dietrich, B. Obst, and P. Grimm, Solid
State Commun. **26**, 943 (1978). * [6] K. Setle and A. Kjekshus, Acta
Crystallogr. **17**, 1568 (1964). * [7] A. F. J. Ruysink, F. Kadjik, A.
J. Wagner, and F. Jellinek, Acta Crystallogr. B **24**, 1614 (1968). *
[8] J. G. Smegil, J. Solid State Chem. **3**, 248 (1971). * [9] Y.
Ishihara and I. Nakada, Solid State Commun. **42**, 579 (1982). * [10]
W. Biberacher and H. Schwenk, Solid State Commun. **33**, 385 (1980). *
[11] Y. Ishihara and I. Nakada, Solid State Commun. **44**, 1439
(1982). * [12] Y. Ishihara and I. Nakada, Solid State Commun. **45**,
129 (1983). * [13] A. Oshiyama, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **52**, 587 (1983). *
[14] Y. Ishihara, I. Nakada, K. Suzuki, and M. Ichihara, Solid State
Commun. **50**, 657 (1984). * [15] K. Suzuki, M. Ichihara, I. Nakada,
and Y. Ishihara, Solid State Commun. **52**, 743 (1984). * [16] T.
Sekine, Y. Kiuchi, E. Matsuura, K. Uchinokura, and R. Yoshizaki, Phys.
Rev. B **36**, 3153 (1987). * [17] H. Okamoto and Y. Ishihara, Phys.
Rev. B **48**, 3927 (1993). * [18] A. Oshiyama, Solid State Commun.
**43**, 607 (1982). * [19] D. W. Bullett, J. Solid State Chem. **33**,
13 (1980). * [20] E. Canadell and M.-H. Whangbo, Inorg. Chem. **25**,
1488 (1986). * [21] I. Nakada and Y. Ishihara, Jpn. J. Appl. Phys.
**23**, 677 (1984). * [22] I. Nakada and Y. Ishihara, Jpn. J. Appl.
Phys. **24**, 31 (1985). * [23] R. Bachmann, F. J. DiSalvo, T. H.
Geballe, R. L. Greene, R. E. Howard, C. N. King, H. C. Kirsch, K. N.
Lee, R. E. Schwall, H.-U. Thomas, and R. B. Zubeck, Rev. Sci. Instrum.
**43**, 205 (1972). * [24] H. R. O’Neal and N. E. Phillips, Phys. Rev.
**137**, A748 (1965). * [25] W. L. McMillan, Phys. Rev. **167**, 331
(1968). * [26] J. Bardeen, L. N. Cooper, and J. R. Schrieffer, Phys.
Rev. **108**, 1175 (1957). * [27] N. Kobayashi, K. Noto, and Y. Muto, J.
Low Temp. Phys. **27**, 217 (1977). * [28] J. R. Clem, Ann. Phys. (N.Y.)
**40**, 268 (1966).
