# Pressure dependence of superconducting critical temperature of Sr2RuO4

Naoki Shirakawa* and Keizo Murata+

Electrochemical Laboratory, Tsukuba 305, Japan

Shuji Nishizaki and Yoshiteru Maeno

Department of Physics, Graduate School of Science, Kyoto University,
Kyoto 606-01, Japan

Toshizo Fujita

Department of Physics, Hiroshima University, Higashi-Hiroshima 739,
Japan

13 May 1997

###### Abstract

We studied electrical resistivity of single crystals of an oxide
superconductor Sr2RuO4 under hydrostatic pressure up to 12 kbar. The
midpoint T_(c) decreases at the rate of 3

The oxide superconductor Sr2RuO4 draws our attention with its structural
similarity to La2-xSr2CuO4 and yet low T_(c) of   1 K.1 The anisotropy
in resistivity (_r__c_/_r__ab_  900 at 2 K) is even larger than that of
cuprates. It is hoped that it can play a role of a low-_T__c_
counterpart of high-_T__c_ cuprates in studying how cuprates differ from
other superconductors.

Shortly after the discovery of superconductivity in Sr2RuO4, Rice and
Sigrist argued the possibility of triplet-pairing, _p_-wave
superconductivity in this system.2 The results of specific heat3 and
nuclear quadrupole resonance4 show that there is a significant portion
of conduction electrons which seem to stay in the normal state down to
zero kelvin.

In UPt3, another and older candidate of a _p_-wave superconductor, a
decrease of T_(c) with increasing pressure was reported by Willis _et
al._5 They also observed a large decrease of T2 term ("_A_ ") in
resistivity on pressurization, which they ascribed to the suppression of
spin fluctuations by pressure.

But if the conduction-electron system can be regarded as a Fermi liquid,
which is believed applicable to Sr2RuO4,6,7 and the resistivity at low
temperature is governed by the electron-electron interaction, A is
proportional to g2, where g denotes the electronic specific heat
coefficient. In this case, the decrease of A under pressure is
interpreted as the decrease of density of states with pressure.
Comparison of the pressure effect on superconductivity in Sr2RuO4 with
that in UPt3 is useful in examining their similarity.

There is another topic that this article deals with. In high-_T__c_
cuprates the temperature dependence of the out-of-plane resistivity
r_(c) is semiconducting in the so-called "under-doped" region. As more
holes are doped, r_(c) becomes metallic in the optimally and overdoped
region. Maeno _et al._1 observed that r_(c) of Sr2RuO4 undergoes a
crossover from a low-temperature metallic to a high-temperature
nonmetallic state. They discussed that a crossover from metallic
conduction to the thermally assisted hopping regime occurs when the
scattering rate by phonons exceeds 1/_t__c_ , where t_(c) stands for the
time for an electron to travel between adjacent layers.8 The pressure
effect on r_(c) may shed some light on this interesting behavior.

In this study we have performed measurements of the in-plane and
out-of-plane resistivity under hydrostatic pressure up to 12 kbar. The
samples used in the measurements were platelike single-crystalline
Sr2RuO4 grown by the floating-zone method.9 The typical dimensions were
1.5 x 0.6 x 0.04 mm-3. The resistivity was measured by a dc four-probe
method. In out-of-plane (_c_-axis) measurements six gold wires were
attached to the sample with heat-cure-type silver paste as shown in the
inset of Fig. 1(b) and the terminals numbered 3 and 4 were shorted and
used as a _I_+ lead, the terminals 5 and 6 _I_- , and the terminals 1
and 2 voltage leads.

We applied hydrostatic pressure to the samples as follows. The samples
were placed in a Teflon cell filled with pressure medium (Idemitsu
Daphne No. 7373 oil), which was placed in the Be-Cu clamp cell. Since we
clamp the pressure cell at room temperature, the pressure decreases on
cooling to low temperature. Previous calibration runs10 showed that the
pressure decrease at the lowest temperatures is about 1.5 kbar
irrespective of the starting pressure. The cell was installed either in
our 3He cryostat or dilution refrigerator for low-temperature
measurements.

The out-of-plane resistivity was measured after the in-plane
measurement. A similar pressure dependence of T_(c) was followed by the
out-of-plane measurement to that obtained beforehand in the in-plane
experiment, ensuring the reproducibility of the T_(c) change.

We first present the resistively observed superconducting transition
under pressure (Fig. 1). The r_(b) result at 0, 8, and 12 kbar is shown,
while the r_(c) result at 0, 4, and 8 kbar. Although the same sample was
used throughout, we had to remake electrical contacts on the sample a
few times, resulting in different residual resistivity above T_(c) from
one pressure to another. Therefore in these figures we multiplied some
data by a scale factor to give a similar residual resistivity. T_(c)
decreases with increasing pressure at least up to 12 kbar.

Second, we show the plot of r vs T2 under several pressure values (Fig.
2). In Fig. 2 no normalization regarding residual resistivity is made.
Both the residual resistivity and the coefficient of T² term (A) depend
little on pressure.

During the pressurization at room temperature we monitored the variation
of resistivity. The results are shown in Fig. 3, which indicates a
monotonic decrease of ρ_(ab) with the increase of pressure, as normally
expected. ρ_(c) , however, increases with increasing pressure. Actual
resistivities at room temperature are 160 μΩ cm and 16 mΩ cm for ρ_(ab)
and ρ_(c) , respectively.

From the data depicted in Fig. 1 we obtain a T-P phase diagram (Fig. 4).
The transition becomes a little broader with increasing pressure,
probably because of the pressure distribution over the sample. By taking
the mean of the superconductivity onset temperature and zero-resistance
temperature, we deduce that the midpoint T_(c) decreases at the rate of
about 3

Since some suggest a pairing mechanism other than the usual
electron-phonon interaction in this compound, it is worthwhile to see
how well (or badly) a BCS-based theory applies. Here we use McMillan’s
formula for T_(c) : [11]

$$T_{c} = \frac{\Theta_{D}}{1.45}\exp\left[\frac{-1.04(1+\lambda)}{\lambda- \mu^{\ast}(1+0.62\lambda)}\right]\!.$$
(1)

Θ_(D) has been determined experimentally as 410± 50 K from a specific
heat measurement on a single crystal [12]. For many superconducting
transition metal elements, μ^(*) takes a common value of 0.13, as
determined from the isotope effect [13]. We take, for instance, 0.13 as
the μ^(*) value here. In ordinary cases λ is estimated from the
enhancement of the experimental electronic specific heat coefficient
($\gamma_{\rm exp}$) over the band-calculation value
($\gamma_{\rm band}$) [14]. According to Oguchi’s band calculation [15],
λ
(                                                       $\,\  (i) The enhancement of the specific heat is mostly due to another mechanism than the electron-phonon interaction, thereby leaving \(l$
entering in Eq. (1) much smaller than 2.8. For example, spin
fluctuations also enhance _g_xspt.

(ii) _T_c is greatly suppressed by spin fluctuations.

(iii) _m_* is anomalously large.

(iv) Superconductivity in this system is all irrelevant to the phonon
mechanism.

We point out here that (i) and (ii) are not independent of each other.

Along scenario (i) we can obtain an effective l relevant to
superconductivity (_l_el-ph) using Eq. (1) and _T_c 1 K. This _l_el-ph
is 0.43, which is only 15

Now we compare the pressure dependence of _T_c and A in Sr2RuO4 with
those in UPt3. Willis _et al._5 observed that _T_c decrease of UPt3 is
2.6

There are two possibilities for the origin of the T2 dependence of
resistivity at low temperature: electron-electron correlation and spin
fluctuations. As to these "exotic" superconductors there are also two
possibilities discussed for the origin of the attractive interaction
between carriers: conventional electron-phonon interaction and spin
fluctuations. If spin fluctuations dominate both low-temperature
resistivity and superconductivity in Sr2RuO4, as believed is the case
for UPt3, the observed insensitivity of A in Sr2RuO4 is difficult to
explain. Therefore, even if an attractive potential is mediated by spin
fluctuations in Sr2RuO4, the origin of the T2 dependence is likely to be
electron correlation.

If we extend our discussion along scenario (i) and neglect the change of
_Ph_ by pressure, _l_el-ph decreases to 0.41 at 8 kbar from 0.43 at 0
bar. This size of decrease is barely observable compared with _l_total.
Therefore the insensitivity of A comes naturally if a conventional
electron-phonon mechanism applies. In this case we cannot say anything
about the origin of the T2 dependence.

In both cases we may mention that the enhancement factor in Sr2RuO4 due
to spin fluctuations is much smaller than in UPt3. In the former case
the spin-fluctuation-driven T2 law is endangered as mentioned above. In
the latter case, even if the T2 dependence is brought about by spin
fluctuations, the extent of the T2 law goes up to much higher
temperature in Sr2RuO4 than in UPt3, which indicates a higher scaling
temperature _T_S in Sr2RuO4. _T_S is inversely correlated with the
enhancement factor due to spin fluctuations. Hence the higher _T_S means
the smaller enhancement factor.16

Therefore superconductivity in Sr2RuO4 does not seem to fall into the
same category as of UPt3, and even if spin fluctuations are mediators of
attractive force, they should be quite different from those in UPt3,
e.g., having a different shape of _g_(**q**, _o_).

The pressure dependence of _r_c (Fig. 3) is very interesting because the
resistivity usually decreases under pressure regardless of whether it is
a coherent metal or is in a tunneling regime. If the system is a band
insulator, the band gap may increase in the modification of the band
structure due to pressure. Our _r_c measurement was done at room
temperature and Yoshida _et al._8 have suggested that the system crosses
over to a thermally assisted hopping regime above 130 K. Surely this
broad hump at around 130 K does not look like a metal-to-insulator phase
transition and the temperature dependence of _r_c would give a 130 K is
not an activation type. Thus it is difficult to regard it as a band
insulator. The increase of _r_c has to be understood taking account of
the shift of the temperature where _r_c takes its maximum. We have not
yet studied this shift thoroughly.

Since our pressure is hydrostatic, we are not sure that the c axis was
really shortened on pressurization. Uniaxial stress along the c axis is
particularly useful to decide whether this increase of _r_c really
occurs with the _c_-axis shortening.

In summary we have observed a fairly rapid _T_c decrease by applying
pressure on Sr2RuO4. The midpoint _T_c decreases at  3

The authors thank I. H. Inoue, Y. Nishihara, H. Yoshino, and I. Hase for
valuable discussions.

## References

* [1] Y. Maeno, H. Hashimoto, K. Yoshida, S. Nishizaki, T. Fujita, J. G.
Bednorz, and F. Lichtenberg, Nature (London) **372**, 532 (1994). * [2]
T. M. Rice and M. Sigrist, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter **7**, L643 (1995).

Figure 4: _T_-_P_ phase diagram at low temperature showing the extent of
the superconducting state.

* [3] Y. Maeno, S. Nishizaki, K. Yoshida, S. Ikeda, and T. Fujita, J.
Low Temp. Phys. **105**, 1577 (1996). * [4] K. Ishida, Y. Kitaoka, K.
Asayama, S. Ikeda, S. Nishizaki, Y. Maeno, K. Yoshida, and T. Fujita,
Phys. Rev. B **56**, 505 (1997). * [5] J. O. Willis, J. D. Thompson, Z.
Fisk, A. de Visser, J. J. M. Franse, and A. Menovsky, Phys. Rev. B
**31**, 1654 (1985). * [6] A. P. Mackenzie, S. R. Julian, A. J. Diver,
G. J. McMullan, M. P. Ray, G. G. Lonzarich, Y. Maeno, S. Nishizaki, and
T. Fujita, Phys. Rev. Lett. **76**, 3786 (1996). * [7] Y. Maeno, K.
Yoshida, H. Hashimoto, S. Nishizaki, S. Ikeda, M. Nohara, T. Fujita, A.
P. Mackenzie, N. E. Hussey, J. G. Bednorz, and F. Lichtenberg, J. Phys.
Soc. Jpn. **66**, 1405 (1997). * [8] K. Yoshida, Y. Maeno, S. Nishizaki,
S. Ikeda, and T. Fujita, J. Low Temp. Phys. **105**, 1593 (1996). * [9]
F. Lichtenberg, A. Catana, J. Mannhart, and D. G. Schlom, Appl. Phys.
Lett. **60**, 1138 (1992). * [10] K. Murata, H. Yoshino, H. O. Yadav, Y.
Honda, and N. Shirakawa, Rev. Sci. Instrum. **68**, 2490 (1997). * [11]
W. L. McMillan, Phys. Rev. **167**, 331 (1968). * [12] S. Ikeda (private
communication). * [13] R. Evans, G. D. Gaspari, and B. L. Gyorffy, J.
Phys. F **3**, 39 (1973). * [14] O. K. Andersen, Phys. Rev. B **2**, 883
(1970). * [15] T. Oguchi, Phys. Rev. B **51**, 1385 (1995). * [16] A. B.
Kaiser and S. Doniach, Int. J. Magn. **1**, 11 (1970).
