# Pressure-induced high-T_(c) superconducting phase in FeSe:

Correlation between anion height and T_(c)

H. Okabe,^(1, #) N. Takeshita,^(2, 3) K. Horigane,⁴ T. Muranaka,¹ and J.
Akimitsu¹

¹Department of Physics and Mathematics, Aoyama Gakuin University,
Fuchinobe 5-10-1, Sagamihara, Kanagawa 229-8558, Japan

²National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology
(AIST), Umezono 1-1-1, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 305-8578, Japan

³Transformative Research-Project on Iron Pnictides (TRIP), JST, Tokyo
102-0075, Japan

⁴WPI-AIMR, Tohoku University, Sendai, Miyagi 980-8577, Japan

###### Abstract

In this study, we performed high-pressure electrical resistivity
measurements of polycrystalline FeSe in the pressure range of 1-16.0 GPa
at temperatures of 4-300 K. A precise evaluation of T_(c) from
zero-resistivity temperatures revealed that T_(c) shows a slightly
distorted dome-shaped curve with maximum T_(c)^(offset) (30 K) at 6 GPa.
With the application of pressure, the temperature dependence of
resistivity above T_(c) changes dramatically to a linear dependence,
that the high-T_(c) phase appears above 3 GPa. We found a striking
correlation between T_(c) and the Se height: the lower the Se height,
the more enhanced is T_(c). Moreover, this relation is broadly
applicable to other iron pnictides, strongly indicating that
high-temperature superconductivity can appear only around the optimum
anion height (∼1.38 A). On the basis of these results, we suggest that
the anion height should be considered as a key determining factor of
T_(c) of iron-based superconductors containing various anions.

2010 10.1103/PhysRevB.81.205119 PACS number(s): 74.70.Ad, 74.25.F-

## 1 Introduction

Recent findings on the superconductivity in LaFeAsO_(1 − x)F_(x) (Ref.
[1]) and related materials have triggered a great deal of interest in
iron compounds because of the possible connection between
superconductivity and magnetism,[2] which undergoes a phase transition
from antiferromagnetic to superconducting ground states (and vice versa)
tuned by external pressure[3] or chemical doping.[1] In particular,
PbO-type FeSe, which is one of the iron-based superconductors discovered
a long time ago,[4] has attracted attention as a key material for
elucidating the superconducting mechanism, because of its extremely
simple structure (composed only of the superconducting FeSe₄ layer) and
its excellent response to external pressure.[5] Among all similar
materials, FeSe shows the greatest enhancement of its T_(c) at high
pressure:[6]T_(c) varies from 13.6 K (T_(c)^(onset) at ambient pressure)
to 37 K (T_(c)^(onset) at 4.5 GPa), indicating a growth rate as high as
5.2 K/GPa. As a result, using FeSe, it is possible to demonstrate the
strong correlation between the structural parameter and T_(c).[7]

The maximum T_(c) value of iron pnictides is apparently attained when
the FeX₄ (X: anion) tetrahedron assumes a regular shape.[8] However,
this rule is not applicable to FeSe, because the FeSe₄ tetrahedron is
distorted from the regular shape,[6] while T_(c) increases significantly
with application of pressure. Although several studies have investigated
FeSe subjected to high pressure,[9, 10] the pressure dependence of
T_(c), particularly above 6 GPa, is controversial because of the
ambiguous definition of T_(c) and the large anisotropic compressibility
of the layered structure,[6] which are attributable mainly to
difficulties in measurements under high-pressure conditions. To overcome
all these problems, we used a cubic-anvil-type high-pressure
apparatus[11] that ensures quasihydrostaticity up to 16 GPa by the
isotropic pressurization from six directions, even after the
solidification of the liquid pressure-transmitting medium at low
temperature and high pressure. Using this apparatus, we reconfirmed the
T_(c)-P (pressure) phase diagram of FeSe.

In this study, we measured the electrical resistivity of a high-quality
FeSe polycrystal at pressures ranging from 0 to 16 GPa. A precise
evaluation of zero-resistivity temperature shows that the pressure
dependence of T_(c) has a slightly distorted dome-shaped curve with the
maximum T_(c) (T_(c)^(offset) =30 K) in the range of 0 <= P <= 11 (GPa)
and that the temperature dependence of resistivities above T_(c) changes
dramatically between 2 and 3 GPa, which suggests the existence of a
phase transition. We found a striking correlation between T_(c) and
anion (selenium) height, which is the distance of the anion from the
nearest iron layer; that is, T_(c) varies with the anion height.
Moreover, this relation is broadly applicable to other ferropnictides,
indicating that the high-temperature superconductivity in these
materials only appears around the optimum anion height (∼1.38 A). We
suggest that the anion height should be considered as a key determining
factor of T_(c) of iron-based superconductors containing various anions.

## 2 Method

FeSe has a simple tetragonal structure that is composed only of
edge-shared FeSe₄ tetrahedral layers. However, it is difficult to
fabricate a good-quality superconducting FeSe sample because a large
amount of excess iron is absolutely imperative for the occurrence of
superconductivity[12] and extreme caution is required to prevent the
formation of magnetic impurities from easily oxidizable iron.
Polycrystalline samples of FeSe used in this study were prepared by a
solid-state reaction using Fe (99.9

## III Results

As shown in Fig. 1, in our sample, zero resistivity and the Meissner
effect were observed simultaneously at 7 K at ambient pressure. In order
to evaluate the precise pressure dependence of T_(c), we defined both
T_(c)^(offset) (determined from the zero-resistivity temperature) and
T_(c)^(onset) (determined from the cross point of two extrapolated lines
drawn for the resistivity data around T_(c)). FeSe does not show
Meissner diamagnetism at T_(c)^(onset). Therefore, there is no guarantee
that a kink in the resistivity immediately represents a signature of
superconductivity.

Figure 2 shows the temperature dependence of electrical resistivities
under application of external pressures ranging from 0 GPa (ambient
pressure) to 16 GPa. With the application of pressure (ambient pressure
to 16 GPa), the room-temperature resistivity decreases by a factor of
more than 3; it reaches a minimum at 10 GPa and subsequently increases
between 10 and 16 GPa. In the pressure range from 0 to 6 GPa, T_(c)
(both T_(c)^(onset) and T_(c)^(offset)) increases rapidly but not
monotonically; further, the resistivity curves gradually change shape
from the one at ambient pressure (see top panel of Fig. 2). Meanwhile,
as shown in the bottom panel of Fig. 2, T_(c)^(offset) suddenly vanishes
at 11.5 GPa. This disappearance is attributed to a rapid enhancement of
resistivities between 11 and 11.5 GPa. Although T_(c)^(onset) still
remains above 11.5 GPa, it disappears completely at 16 GPa. Figure 3
shows the pressure dependence of T_(c)^(onset), T_(c)^(offset), and the
width of the superconducting transition, ΔT_(c)
(=T_(c)^(onset)-T_(c)^(offset)). Beautiful but slightly distorted
dome-shaped curves are observed as cuprates[14] and heavy fermions.[15]
However, the pressure dependence of ΔT_(c) shows a complicated trend. At
low pressures up to 2 GPa, ΔT_(c) increases exponentially, indicating a
salient broadening of the transition width, whereas T_(c)^(offset) in

Figure 2: (Color online) Temperature dependence of resistivity at
ambient and several other pressures (top panel: 0–8 GPa and bottom
panel: 9–16 GPa) for polycrystalline sample of FeSe.

Figure 1: (Color online) Temperature dependence of magnetic
susceptibility (top main panel) and electrical resistivity (bottom main
panel) of polycrystalline FeSe at ambient pressure. The cross point of
two extrapolated lines denotes T_(c)^(onset). The top and bottom insets
show the crystal structure of FeSe and the setting of the sample in the
high-pressure apparatus (see text for details), respectively.

creases gradually. Thereafter, ΔT_(c) decreases moderately but increases
again above 9 GPa, resulting in a dome-shaped T_(c) curve. In Sec. IV,
we shed light on the details of the above-mentioned behaviors, in
comparison with those reported in previous studies, to elucidate the
nature of iron-based superconductors.

The most striking feature in the low-pressure region (<2 GPa) is that
$T_{c}^{\rm offset}$ has a relatively flat plateau; that is, an increase
in T_(c) almost levels off between 1 and 1.5 GPa. A similar behavior was
also observed during the measurements of dc magnetization [16] and
electrical resistivity [17] of FeSe by using high-pressure
piston-cylinder units. Therefore, this flat plateau is probably an
important characteristic of FeSe. Previous ⁷⁷Se-NMR measurements [18]
showed that antiferromagnetic spin fluctuations significantly enhanced
in the plateau region and that there exists a possibility of a magnetic
phase transition or spin freezing. The superconductivity in iron-based
compounds is thought to be closely related to a neighboring
antiferromagnetic ordered phase. The appearance of pressure-induced
superconductivity adjacent to a magnetic-ordered phase is a
characteristic feature of exotic superconductors such as CeRh₂Si₂, [19]
CeNi₂Ge₂, [20] and CeIn₃, [21] with superconductivity appearing around a
quantum critical point.

On application of further pressure over 7 GPa, $T_{c}^{\rm offset}$
reduces monotonically to lower values and disappears completely above
11.5 GPa. Then, the superconducting transition becomes less sharp, as is
indicated by the broadening of the transition width ΔT_(c). After the
disappearance of $T_{c}^{\rm offset}$, the resistivity over the entire
temperature range would improve greatly with increasing pressure,
indicating the occurrence of the metal-semiconductor transition. At ∼9
GPa, tetragonal FeSe starts being transformed from a tetragonal
structure to a hexagonal (NiAs-type) structure, and this structure
undergoes a transition from a metallic superconducting state to the
semiconducting state. [6] A recent synchrotron x-ray study on FeSe at
various pressures [22] has revealed that the structural transition to
the hexagonal phase is completed at around 12.4 GPa, which is consistent
with the fact that all traces of superconductivity (see bottom panel of
Fig. 2) completely vanish by 16 GPa, without any trace of an anomalous
decrease in resistivity. Therefore, the remarkable increase in
transition width ΔT_(c) above 9 GPa corresponds to the transition to the
hexagonal phase, and this corresponds to the closure of the
superconducting dome. The observed onset of T_(c) above 11.5 GPa
indicates a subtle fraction of the superconducting phase, which may no
longer manifest Meissner diamagnetism.

## IV IV. Discussion

Figure 4 shows an enlarged view of the resistivities below 120 K between
1 and 6 GPa. We can distinguish the gradual change in the shape of
resistivity curves: with increasing pressure, the temperature dependence
curve of resistivity changes from nearly quadratic to linear. In
particular, the change between 2 and 3 GPa is drastic, implying the
occurrence of a certain phase transition. A linear dependence of
electrical resistivities on temperature is commonly observed in cuprate
superconductors [23, 24, 25] and is considered to be one of the primary
indicators of non-Fermi-liquid behavior. An incoherent scattering of
fermion quasiparticles via magnetic interactions leads to resistivity of
the form ρ(T)=ρ₀+$AT^{\rm x}$, where ρ₀, A, and α are arbitrary
constants. However, no linear term is expected according to conventional
Fermi-liquid theory. It should be noted that in our study, the
temperature dependence of resistivities is not entirely quadratic even
below 3 GPa, indicating the presence of anisotropic carrier scattering
by spin fluctuations. Meanwhile, the temperature dependence of
resistivity in the high-temperature superconducting phase (>3 GPa) of
FeSe is highly reminiscent of the linear temperature dependence observed
in high-T_(c) cuprates, interpreted as a "strange metal" phase, [26]
where this phase is ascribed to antiferromagnetic spin fluctuations.
T-linear dependence of resistivities has also been reported for other
ferromptictides, for example, Ba(Fe, Co)₂As₂, [27] implying that
antiferromagnetic spin fluctuations and superconductivity are closely
related to each other in iron-based compounds, as discussed in the
context of heavy fermion and cuprate superconductors.

For applied pressures greater than 3 GPa, T_(c) shows the dome-shaped
curve, with maximum $T_{c}^{\rm offset}$=30.02 K at 6 GPa, whereas
between 3 and 9 GPa, ΔT_(c) continues to decline steadily. As has been
noted previously, the shape of the FeX₄ tetrahedron is closely related
to the value of T_(c). In the case of iron pnictides, T_(c) appears to
attain maximum values when

Figure 4: (Color online) Enlarged view of resistivity below 120 K
between 1 and 6 GPa. The dotted lines are guides to the eye, showing the
dependence of T and T². For simplicity, we have not shown the data at
1.5 GPa.

Figure 3: (Color online) Pressure dependence of $T_{c}^{\rm offset}$
(open circle) $T_{c}^{\rm offset}$ (closed circle, top main panel) and
width of superconducting transition
ΔT_(c)(=$T_{c}^{\rm offset}$$-T_{c}^{\rm offset}$) (bottom main panel).
The solid lines are obtained by connecting the data points.

the As-Fe-As bond angles come close to 109.47^(∘),[8] which corresponds
to a regular tetrahedron. However, this rule is not applicable to
FeSe.[6] Therefore, we focus on the relationship of T_(c) with Se
height. Figure 5 shows the pressure dependence of $T_{c}^{\rm offset}$
and Se height (inversely scaled), obtained from Ref. [6]. Astonishingly,
$T_{c}^{\rm offset}$ varies in accord with the Se height, even in the
plateau in the low-pressure region. Although there is a subtle shift in
the pressure dependence, which may be due to the difference in ways of
applying pressures (cubic or diamond anvil), there is a clear
correlation between both parameters. Furthermore, $T_{c}^{\rm offset}$
is inversely proportional to the magnitude of the Se height, as can be
observed from the inset of Fig. 4, indicating that the smaller the Se
height, the more enhanced is T_(c). However, this seems to be
contradictory to the behavior observed in other pnictides.[8] In other
pnictides, it is observed that T_(c) is higher when the pnictogen is
located at greater heights in the crystal structures; this behavior is
also supported by the theoretical aspect.[7] In any case, FeSe is a
suitable material for demonstrating the importance of anion position as
discussed below, which is inherently linked to the mechanism of
superconductivity in iron-based compounds.

We now turn to consider, in a more universal sense, the nature of the
iron-based superconductivity in FeSe with respect to pressure tuning of
T_(c), which is the focus area in this study. Figure 6 shows the maximum
T_(c) as a function of anion height ($h_{\rm anion}$) for various
iron-based superconductors.[28, 29] In this study, we successfully
derived the T_(c)-$h_{\rm anion}$ diagram of iron (partially
nickel)-based superconductors. The clear correlation between T_(c) and
$h_{\rm anion}$ is a certain indicator of the importance of anion
positions in these iron-based superconductors. As shown in Fig. 6, the
anion height dependence of T_(c) is well described by a Lorenz curve. As
the value of anion height increases, T_(c) of the iron-based
superconductors starts to increase dramatically up to ∼55 K at a height
of 1.38 A, which corresponds to the optimum value of a 1111 system.
However, above the optimum anion height (1.38 A), T_(c) decreases
rapidly with increasing $h_{\rm anion}$ passing through our measured
FeSe region (1.42−1.45 A); finally, the value of $h_{\rm anion}$ becomes
equal to that for nonsuperconducting FeTe (1.77 A).[30] It should be
noted that superconductors with direct substitution in the FeX₄
tetrahedral layer or a large deviation from a divalent state (Fe²⁺),
e.g., an alkali-metal element or Co-doping samples of a 122 system or
chalcogen-substituted 11 system, are not particularly suitable for this
trend. This is probably due to (1) the considerable disorder in the Fe
layers; (2) a large gap among anion heights of different anions, for
example, in FeSe_(1 − x)Te_(x), T_(c) appears to be dominated only by
the Fe-Se distance (T_(c) ∼ 14 K at $h_{\rm anion}$=1.478 A, which is
consistent with the Lorenz curve);[31, 32] or (3) coexistence of strong
magnetic fluctuation and superconductivity.[33, 34, 35] We thus conclude
that the appearance of "high-temperature" superconductivity in iron
compounds is confined to a specific area that is around the optimum
anion height (1.38 A), which corresponds to the radius of arsenic at
ambient pressure. It has been proposed,[7] on the basis of solutions of
Eliashberg equations, that the critical temperature of iron pnictides is
inherently linked to their structural parameters, particularly pnictogen
heights and the a-axis lattice parameter. The result obtained in this
study is in good agreement with the theoretical prediction, albeit the
length of the a axis of FeSe monotonically decreases with increasing
pressure,[6] which suppresses the enhancement of T_(c). An interesting
aspect of FeSe, as observed from Fig. 6, is that T_(c) does not exhibit
this trend above 1.43 A (corresponding to the pressure range of 0-2
GPa), which clearly indicates that the system attains a different
electronic state below the characteristic pressure (∼2 GPa). The shapes
of the resistivity curves above T_(c) change clearly between 2 and 3
GPa, as pointed out above (see Fig. 4), which implies a significant
transformation to the high-T_(c) superconducting phase. It has been
previously suggested that there is a difference in the superconducting
gap symmetries of arsenic and phosphide:[36] a full-gap strong coupling
s wave for high-T_(c) arsenide compounds and nodal low T_(c) for
phosphide compounds, which is widely perceived in many studies. A
theoretical approach[7] has suggested that the pairing symmetry of iron
pnictides is determined by the pnictogen heights between a high-T_(c)
nodeless gap for high $h_{\rm anion}$ or a low-T_(c) nodal gap for low
$h_{\rm anion}$, corresponding to the left-hand side of the Lorenz curve
shown in Fig. 6. Although FeSe is located on the right-hand side, i.e.,
in a region

Figure 5: (Color online) Pressure dependence of $T_{c}^{\rm offset}$ and
Se height $h_{\rm Se}$ (inversely scaled), as obtained from Ref. [6].
The inset shows $T_{c}^{\rm offset}$ as a function of the Se height. The
dotted line is a guide to the eye.

Figure 6: (Color online) T_(c) as a function of anion height
($h_{\rm anion}$) for various iron (and nickel)-based superconductors,
as obtained from Ref. [28] (triangle: FeSe, circle: other pnictides).
Lanthanides (Ln) indicate LnFeAsO (1111 system). 111, 122, and 42226
represent LiFeAs, Ba_(0.6)K_(0.4)Fe₂As₂, and Sr₄Sc₂Fe₂P₂O₆ (Ref. [29]),
respectively. The yellow line shows the fitting result by the Lorenz
function. The inset shows a schematic view of $h_{\rm anion}$.

of extremely high _h_anion, it is highly probable that FeSe also shows a
transition from the low-_T__(c) phase to the high-_T__(c) phase under
application of external pressures. This is also supported by the fact
that the temperature dependence of resistivity above _T__(c) drastically
changes between 2 and 3 GPa, which suggests the existence of a certain
phase transition. The possibility of two kinds of superconducting phases
has also been reported, [16, 17] indicated by the two-step increase in
the _T__(c)-_P_ curves. The extremely soft crystal structure of FeSe
enables the control of _h_anion in a wide range and the superconducting
mechanism can be switched by the application of modest pressure. It may
be interesting to explore the gap symmetry of FeSe at high pressure ( 6
GPa) by NMR or muon-spin rotation and whether there is any difference
between the gap symmetry of FeSe and those of other iron-based
superconductors.

## V V. Summary

In this study, the precise pressure dependence of the electric
resistivity of FeSe was measured in the pressure range of 0-16.0 GPa at
temperatures of 4-300 K by using a cubic-anvil-type high-pressure
apparatus. _T__(c) estimated from zero-resistivity temperature shows a
slightly distorted dome-shaped curve with the maximum T_(c)^(offset)=30
K in the range of 0 <= P <= 11 (GPa). The temperature dependence of
resistivity above _T__(c) changes dramatically between 2 and 3 GPa; the
shapes of the resistivity curves change to linear shapes. This behavior
strongly suggests a phase transition between the low-_T__(c) and the
high-_T__(c) superconducting phases. A striking correlation is found
between _T__(c) and anion (selenium) height: the lower the Se height,
the more improved is _T__(c). Moreover, this relation is broadly
applicable to other iron pnictides, indicating that the high-temperature
superconductivity in these materials appears only around the optimum
anion height ( 1.38 A). On the basis of these results, we suggest that
anion height should be considered as a key determining factor of _T__(c)
in iron-based superconductors containing various anions.

## References

* [1] Y. Kamihara, T. Watanabe, M. Hirano, and H. Hosono, J. Am. Chem.
Soc. **130**, 3296 (2008). * [2] I. I. Mazin, D. J. Singh, M. D.
Johannes, and M. H. Du, Phys. Rev. Lett. **101**, 057003 (2008). * [3]
H. Takahashi, K. Igawa, K. Arii, Y. Kamihara, M. Hirano, and H. Hosono,
Nature (London) **453**, 376 (2008). * [4] F.-C. Hsu, J.-Y. Luo, K.-W.
Yeh, T.-K. Chen, T.-W. Huang, P. M. Wu, Y.-C. Lee, Y.-L. Huang, Y.-Y.
Chu, D.-C. Yan, and M.-K. Wu, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. **105**,
14262 (2008). * [5] Y. Mizuguchi, F. Tomioka, S. Tsuda, T. Yamaguchi,
and Y. Takano, Appl. Phys. Lett. **93**, 152505 (2008). * [6] S.
Margadonna, Y. Takabayashi, Y. Ohishi, Y. Mizuguchi, Y. Takano, T.
Kagayama, T. Nakagawa, M. Takata, and K. Prassides, Phys. Rev. B **80**,
064506 (2009). * [7] K. Kuroki, H. Usui, S. Onari, R. Arita, and H.
Aoki, Phys. Rev. B **79**, 224511 (2009). * [8] C.-H. Lee, A. Iyo, H.
Eisaki, H. Kito, M. T. Fernandez-Diaz, T. Ito, K. Kihou, H. Matsuhata,
M. Braden, and K. Yamada, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **77**, 083704 (2008). *
[9] S. Medvedev, T. M. McQueen, I. A. Troyan, T. Palasyuk, M. I.
Eremets, R. J. Cava, S. Naghavi, F. Casper, V. Ksenofontov, G. Wortmann,
and C. Felser, Nature Mater. **8**, 630 (2009). * [10] G. Garbarino, A.
Sow, P. Lejay, A. Sulpice, P. Toulemonde, M. Mezouar, and M.
Nunez-Regueiro, EPL **86**, 27001 (2009). * [11] N. Mori, H. Takahashi,
and N. Takeshita, High Press. Res. **24**, 225 (2004). * [12] T. M.
McQueen, Q. Huang, V. Ksenofontov, C. Felser, Q. Xu, H. Zandbergen, Y.
S. Hor, J. Allred, A. J. Williams, D. Qu, J. Checkelsky, N. P. Ong, and
R. J. Cava, Phys. Rev. B **79**, 014522 (2009). * [13] K. Murata, K.
Yokogawa, H. Yoshino, S. Klotz, P. Munsch, A. Irizawa, M. Nishiyama, K.
Iizuka, T. Nanba, T. Okada, Y. Shiraga, and S. Aoyama, Rev. Sci.
Instrum. **79**, 085101 (2008). * [14] P. A. Lee, N. Nagaosa, and X.-G.
Wen, Rev. Mod. Phys. **78**, 17 (2006). * [15] V. A. Sidorov, M.
Nicklas, P. G. Pagliuso, J. L. Sarrao, Y. Bang, A. V. Balatsky, and J.
D. Thompson, Phys. Rev. Lett. **89**, 157004 (2002). * [16] K. Miyoshi,
Y. Takaichi, E. Mutou, K. Fujiwara, and J. Takeuchi, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn.
**78**, 093703 (2009). * [17] S. Masaki, H. Kotegawa, Y. Hara, H. Tou,
K. Murata, Y. Mizuguchi, and Y. Takano, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **78**,
063704 (2009). * [18] T. Imai, K. Ahilan, F. L. Ning, T. M. McQueen, and
R. J. Cava, Phys. Rev. Lett. **102**, 177005 (2009). * [19] R.
Movshovich, T. Graf, D. Mandrus, J. D. Thompson, J. L. Smith, and Z.
Fisk, Phys. Rev. B **53**, 8241 (1996). * [20] F. Steglich, P.
Gegenwart, R. Helfrich, C. Langhammer, P. Hellmann, L. Donnevert, C.
Geibel, M. Lang, G. Sparn, W. Assmus, G. R. Stewart, and A. Ochiai, Z.
Phys. B: Condens. Matter **103**, 235 (1997). * [21] N. D. Mathur, F. M.
Grosche, S. R. Julian, I. R. Walker, D. M. Freye, R. K. W. Haselwimmer,
and G. G. Lonzarich, Nature (London) **394**, 39 (1998). * [22] D.
Braithwaite, B. Salce, G. Lapertot, F. Bourdarot, C. Marin, D. Aoki, and
M. Hanfland, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter **21**, 232202 (2009). * [23] A.
T. Fiory, S. Martin, R. M. Fleming, L. F. Schneemeyer, J. V. Waszczak,
A. F. Hebard, and S. A. Sunshine, Physica C **162-164**, 1195 (1989).

* Nakamura and Uchida (1993) Y. Nakamura and S. Uchida, Phys. Rev. B
**47**, 8369 (1993). * Mackenzie et al. (1996) A. P. Mackenzie, S. R.
Julian, D. C. Sinclair, and C. T. Lin, Phys. Rev. B **53**, 5848
(1996). * Anderson (2006) P. W. Anderson, Nat. Phys. **2**, 626
(2006). * Ahilan et al. (2008) K. Ahilan, J. Balasubramaniam, F. L.
Ning, T. Imai, A. S. Sefat, R. Jin, M. A. McGuire, B. C. Sales, and D.
Mandrus, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter **20**, 472201 (2008). * Horigane et
al. (2009) K. Horigane, H. Hiraka, and K. Ohoyama, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn.
**78**, 074718 (2009). * Ogino et al. (2009) H. Ogino, Y. Matsumura, Y.
Katsura, K. Ushiyama, S. Horii, K. Kishio, and J. Shimoyama, Supercond.
Sci. Technol. **22**, 075008 (2009). * Bao et al. (2009) W. Bao, Y. Qiu,
Q. Huang, M. A. Green, P. Zajdel, M. R. Fitzsimmons, M. Zhernenkov, S.
Chang, M. Fang, B. Qian, E. K. Vehstedt, J. Yang, H. M. Pham, L. Spinu,
and Z. Q. Mao, Phys. Rev. Lett. **102**, 247001 (2009). * Louca et al.
(2010) D. Louca, K. Horigane, A. Llobet, R. Arita, S. Ji, N. Katayama,
S. Konbu, K. Nakamura, T. Koo, P. Tong, and K. Yamada, Phys. Rev. B
**81**, 134524 (2010). * Tegel et al. (2010) M. Tegel, C. Lohnert, and
D. Johrendt, Solid State Commun. **150**, 383 (2010). * Lumsden et al.
(2009) M. D. Lumsden, A. D. Christianson, D. Parshall, M. B. Stone, S.
E. Nagler, G. J. MacDougall, H. A. Mook, K. Lokshin, T. Egami, D. L.
Abernathy, E. A. Goremychkin, R. Osborn, M. A. McGuire, A. S. Sefat, R.
Jin, B. C. Sales, and D. Mandrus, Phys. Rev. Lett. **102**, 107005
(2009). * Lumsden et al. (2010) M. D. Lumsden, A. D. Christianson, E. A.
Goremychkin, S. E. Nagler, H. A. Mook, M. B. Stone, D. L. Abernathy, T.
Guidi, G. J. MacDougall, C. de la Cruz, A. S. Sefat, M. A. McGuire, B.
C. Sales, and D. Mandrus, Nat. Phys. **6**, 182 (2010). * Parker et al.
(2009) D. R. Parker, M. J. Pitcher, P. J. Baker, I. Franke, T.
Lancaster, S. J. Blundell, and S. J. Clarke, Chem. Commun. **2009**,
2189. * Fletcher et al. (2009) J. D. Fletcher, A. Serafin, L. Malone, J.
G. Analytis, J.-H. Chu, A. S. Erickson, I. R. Fisher, and A. Carrington,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **102**, 147001 (2009).
