# Evolution of T² resistivity and superconductivity in Nb₃Sn under
pressure

Z. Ren,^(1, 2, *) L. Gamperle,¹ A. Fete,¹ C. Senatore,¹ and D. Jaccard¹

¹DQMP - University of Geneva, 24 Quai Ernest-Ansermet, 1211 Geneva 4,
Switzerland ²Institute for Natural Sciences, Westlake Institute for
Advanced Study, 18 Shilongshan Road, Hangzhou, P. R. China

26 October 2016201620172 is an almost rigid upward shift of that of
Nb₃Sn(S), indicating that the temperature-dependent electron scattering
mechanism does not depend on the sample nature. Hence the difference in
the resistivities of the two samples mainly corresponds to different
degrees of disorder.

As shown in Fig. 1(b), in both cases, the ρ(T) data from T_(c) up to ∼35
K can be well described by the relation ρ(T) = ρ₀ + AT², where ρ₀ is the
residual resistivity and A is the prefactor. Upon application of a 19-T
magnetic field, this T² law extends down to ∼10 K for Nb₃Sn(P), while
this is not the case in Nb₃Sn(S) due to a non-negligible positive
magnetoresistance (data not shown). With increasing temperature above
∼35 K, ρ(T) shows a downward deviation from the T² behavior, although
the anomaly due to the structural phase transition is more visible in
Nb₃Sn(P). In addition, in spite of its slightly higher T_(c), ρ₀ of
Nb₃Sn(P) is nearly one order of magnitude higher than that of Nb₃Sn(S).
It is known that ρ₀ of the Nb-Sn system is sensitive to the atomic Sn
content, with a reduction by one order of magnitude between 24 and 25
at.

### Electrical resistivity under pressure

Figure 2 shows the resistivity of Nb₃Sn(S) and Nb₃Sn(P) under pressure
up to ∼9 GPa. We note the following similarities between the two
samples. First, the shape of ρ(T) remains nearly unchanged while its
magnitude decreases slightly with increasing pressure. Second, when
plotted against T², a linear region in ρ(T) can always be found with its
slope decreasing with increasing pressure. Although weak, it seems clear
that above a certain temperature (∼25-35 K) ρ(T) exhibits a downward
deviation at low pressure but an upward deviation at high pressure from
the T² dependence, suggesting the presence of additional contributions
from the structural transition and the conventional electron-phonon
scattering to the resistivity. Nevertheless, as shown clearly in Figs.
2(e) and 2(f), the T² law appears to provide a good description of all
the data above $T_{\rm c}$[20]. Yet, it remains to be seen whether the
normal-state

Figure 2: (a) and (b) The temperature dependencies of resistivity under
various pressure for Nb₃Sn(P) and Nb₃Sn(S), respectively. (c) and (d)
The low-temperature resistivity plotted as a function of T² at selected
pressures for the two samples. The dashed lines are linear fits to the
data below 600 K². (e) and (f) The zooms of (c) and (d) just above
T_(c). The dashed lines are the same as those in (c) and (d). (g) and
(h) The superconducting transition under pressure for the two samples.
See text for the definition of $T_{\rm c}^{\rm on}$,
$T_{\rm c}^{\rm mid}$, and $T_{\rm c}^{\rm bulk}$.

Figure 1: (a) Temperature dependencies of resistivity of Nb₃Sn(S) and
Nb₃Sn(P) at ambient pressure. (b) Low-temperature region of the data
plotted as a function of T². The result of Nb₃Sn(P) at 19 T is also
included. The dashed lines are a guide to the eyes. The structural phase
transition temperature $T_{\rm M}$ is marked by the arrow.

resistivity follows a T² law down to zero temperature by combining high
pressure and high magnetic field. Third, $T_{\rm c}$ tends to decrease
and the superconducting transition becomes broadened with pressure.

Let us now examine the pressure dependence of $T_{\rm c}$. It is noted
that additional steplike features show up in the superconducting
transition at some pressures, which is ascribed to the pressure
inhomogeneity in the pressure cell. Hence, for each pressure, we
determine $T_{\rm c}^{\rm on}$ as the temperature corresponding to the
intersection of a linear extrapolation of the initial resistivity drop
with the normal-state line, $T_{\rm c}^{\rm mid}$ as the temperature
corresponding to the midpoint of the resistivity transition, and
$T_{\rm c}^{\rm bulk}$ as the temperature corresponding to the
completion of the resistive transition, which coincides usually with the
midpoint of the jump in ac heat capacity (see Appendix). As shown in
Fig. 3(a), with increasing pressure, the depression of T_(c) and the
increase in the transition width are more rapid for Nb₃Sn(P) than for
Nb₃Sn(S). In order to allow for a straightforward comparison, we plot in
Fig. 3(b) $\Delta T_{\rm c}=T_{\rm c}(p)-T_{\rm c}(0)$ as a function of
p for the two samples together with the data reported by Chu _et
al._[11] and Tanaka _et al._[21]. $\Delta T_{\rm c}^{\rm on}$ of
Nb₃Sn(S) is less than 1 K up to 9.3 GPa, in good agreement with previous
reports [11, 21]. By contrast, $\Delta T_{\rm c}^{\rm on}$ and
$\Delta T_{\rm c}^{\rm bulk}$ of Nb₃Sn(P) increase to ∼2 and ∼3 K,
respectively. Here it should be pointed out that the pressure gradient
is very similar for the two pressure cells. Hence the strong sample
dependence of $\Delta T_{\rm c}(p)$ is most probably of intrinsic
origin, as found earlier in [22].

We now turn our attention to temperature behavior of the normal-state
resistivity. As shown above, the low-T data is well described by a T²
law. On the other hand, the ρ(T) data above 200 K can be fitted using a
parallel-resistor model $1/\rho(T)=1/(\rho_{0}+aT)+1/\rho^{\rm max}$,
where a is the coefficient due to electron-phonon scattering and
$\rho^{\rm max}$ is the saturation resistivity [18]. The obtained
parameters for Nb₃Sn(S) and Nb₃Sn(P) are shown in Fig. 4, and display a
qualitatively very similar pressure dependence. As can be seen, ρ₀
remains essentially unchanged, suggesting that pressure does not
introduce much additional disorder. Unlike ρ₀, all the other parameters
decrease with pressure. Since $a\sim 1/\Theta_{\rm D}^{2}\sim V^{2/3}$
and $\rho^{\rm max}\sim V^{1/3}$, where $\Theta_{\rm D}$ is the Debye
temperature and V is the unit cell volume, the decrease of these
parameters can be understood as resulting from the shrinkage of V under
pressure.

Surprisingly, both the A coefficient and ρ₀ show discontinuity between
the ambient and first measured pressure, although $T_{\rm c}$ is smooth
as well as a and $\rho^{\rm max}$ values. These sudden changes can be
tentatively ascribed to strain effect in the soft solid transmitting
pressure medium [10, 23]. Strain is expected to abruptly grow during the
initial pressurization and slowly increase with further increasing
pressure, similar to the pressure gradient. Likely, the strain field has
the pressure chamber axial symmetry which was chosen to coincide with
the [110] axis of Nb₃Sn(S). Thus subtle interplay between volume
contraction and strain effects have to be detailed in the future.
Consistently strain effect appears to be stronger in single than in
polycrystalline Nb₃Sn. In addition, the small increase in ρ₀ of Nb₃Sn(S)
could be due to pressure-induced dislocations or even micro cracks.

Figure 4: Pressure dependencies of the coefficients A, a, residual
resistivity ρ₀, and saturation resistivity $\rho^{\rm max}$ derived from
the data fitting for Nb₃Sn(S) (closed symbol) and Nb₃Sn(P) (open
symbol).

Figure 3: (a) Pressure dependencies of the temperatures corresponding to
the onset ($T_{\rm c}^{\rm on}$), the midpoint ($T_{\rm c}^{\rm mid}$),
and the completion ($T_{\rm c}^{\rm bulk}$) of the resistive
superconducting transition for Nb₃Sn(S) and Nb₃Sn(P). (b)
$\Delta T_{\rm c}=T_{\rm c}(p)-T_{\rm c}(0)$ plotted as function of
pressure. The results from Refs. [11, 21] are also included for
comparison. The solid lines are a guide to the eyes.

Given that there is still some debate on the origin of the T²
resistivity in Nb₃Sn, the pressure evolution of the A coefficient
deserves scrutiny. According to Webb _et al._, the T² dependence could
be due to phonon assisted s-d interband scattering with a spectrum F(ω)
of non-Debye-like phonons [15]. However, Gurvitch _et al._ later found
that even in highly disordered Nb₃Sn, whose phonon spectrum is
apparently different from the crystalline one, this T² dependence of the
resistivity is still observed [24]. Furthermore, more elaborated
calculations by Caton and Viswanathan shows that only a T³ dependence of
the resistivity can arise due to the phonons in V₃Si, yet its
low-temperature resistivity follows the T² law [25]. It thus appears
that the T² dependence of the resistivity has little to do with the
phonon structure.

In fact, our results are more in line with the electron-electron
scattering scenario [26]. In this second scenario, since
$A\propto[N(E_{\rm F})]^{2}$ and $N(E_{\rm F})$ is large in Nb₃Sn, the
large A values (∼6-7 nΩ cm/K²) gets a natural explanation. Moreover, its
decrease under pressure is in agreement with the reduction of
$N(E_{\rm F})$ as suggested by previous experimental [14] and
theoretical studies [27, 28].

The concomitant decrease of $T_{\rm c}$ and A with pressure is
reminiscent of what has been observed in V₃Si [29], Sr₂RuO₄[30], heavy
fermion compounds [31, 32], and borocarbides [33, 34], and points to a
close relationship between these quantities. Actually, as shown in Fig.
5, when plotting $T_{\rm c}^{\rm bulk}$ against $\sqrt{A}$, a linear
behavior is observed in both cases, meaning that
$dT_{\rm c}^{\rm bulk}/d\sqrt{A}\propto dT_{\rm c}^{\rm bulk}/dN(E_{\rm F})$
remains unchanged under pressure. It thus appears that $N(E_{\rm F})$ is
the key factor in determining the pressure dependence of
$T_{\rm c}^{\rm bulk}$ for a given sample. This result is consistent
with a previous study which shows that for Nb₃Sn $T_{\rm c}$ is a
function mainly of $N(E_{\rm F})$[35]. In addition,
$dT_{\rm c}^{\rm bulk}/d\sqrt{A}$ of Nb₃Sn(P) is nearly three times that
of Nb₃Sn(S), suggesting that disorder also plays a role in determining
$T_{\rm c}$. This is understandable since $N(E_{\rm F})$ and ρ₀ are
related [36].

### Implication on the pairing mechanism

Nb₃Sn is generally considered as a BCS superconductor with a strong
electron-phonon coupling [3]. For this kind of superconductors,
$T_{\rm c}$ can be estimated from the McMillan formula
[37]$T_{\rm c}=(\Theta_{\rm D}/1.45)\exp[-[1.04(1+\lambda)]/[\lambda-\mu^{*}(1+0.62 \lambda)])$,
with $\lambda=[N(E_{\rm F})/I^{2})/M(\omega^{2})$, where μ^(*) is the
Coulomb pseudopotential, ⟨I²⟩ is the average square electron-ion matric
element, M is the atomic mass, and ⟨α²⟩ is the average square phonon
frequency. Indeed, with a λ value of 1.51 from first-principles
calculations [38] and μ^(*) = 0.15, the predicted $T_{\rm c}$ of 17.7 K
matches well with the value recorded at ambient pressure. Within this
framework, the depression of $T_{\rm c}$ with pressure can be ascribed
to a reduction of λ mainly due to a decrease in $N(E_{\rm F})$. In this
respect, it is crucial to understand the linear relation between the
bulk $T_{\rm c}$ and $N(E_{\rm F})$, especially considering that this
seems to also be the case for the well-known non-BCS superconductors
Sr₂RuO₄ and UPt₃[29]. It is noteworthy that the A magnitude of Nb₃Sn is
well comparable to that of Sr₂RuO₄, and in the latter case, the
simultaneous decrease of $T_{\rm c}$ and A under pressure is attributed
to the weakening of electron-electron correlations [30].

On the other hand, Kataoka proposed that an electronic pairing mechanism
based on Gellikman’s model may apply to A15 superconductors [8, 9].
According to Gellikman [39], in metals whose electronic structure
consists of both light and heavy bands at the Fermi level, the Coulomb
interaction between the light and heavy electrons causes an indirect
attractive interaction. In practice, this attractive interaction can
cooperate with the usual electron-phonon coupling to induce
superconductivity in the light-electron system. A de Haas-van Alphen
study [40] shows that Nb₃Sn has a multiband nature with the effective
masses of the different bands ranging from 0.9 m_(e) to 5 m_(e), where
m_(e) is the free electron mass. As mentioned above, this type of band
structure is the prerequisite

Figure 6: Comparison of the resistivity and ac heat capacity at 6.3 and
6.9 GPa for Nb₃Sn(P). The heat capacity data were taken at a frequency
of 737 Hz. The solid and dashed lines are a guide to the eyes.

Figure 5: $T_{\rm c}^{\rm bulk}$ plotted as a function of $\sqrt{A}$ for
Nb₃Sn(S) and Nb₃Sn(P) under pressure. The solid lines are a guide to the
eyes.

for the Gelikman’s mechanism. Thus it would be interesting to get a
quantitative estimation of T_(c) as well as its pressure dependence in
this picture.

## IV Conclusion

In summary, we have studied the resistivity of polycrystalline and
single-crystalline Nb₃Sn samples under pressure up to 9.3 GPa. The T_(c)
is more robust against pressure for the single-crystalline sample than
for the polycrystalline one. For both samples, the normal-state
resistivity follows a T² dependence, and the prefactor A of the T² law
decreases with increasing pressure. Furthermore, the bulk T_(c) displays
a linear dependence on $\sqrt{A}$, whose slope becomes larger with the
increase of residual resistivity. These results highlight the importance
of the electronic states at the Fermi level in determining T_(c) in
Nb₃Sn under pressure, and call for a reexamination of their contribution
to the superconducting pairing in this material.

## Acknowledgment

We thank Enrico Giannini for performing SQUID measurements as well as
fruitful discussions.

## Appendix: Comparison of the resistivity and AC heat capacity under
pressure

The pressure cells for both Nb₃Sn(S) and Nb₃Sn(P) were initially
designed to measure both resistivity and ac heat capacity. However, due
to the heater problem, pertinent heat-capacity results have been
obtained only for Nb₃Sn(P) at 6.3 and 6.9 GPa. As shown in Fig. 6, in
both cases, the completion of the resistive transition coincides with
the midpoint of the heat capacity jump, which is taken as the bulk T_(c)
in common practice when considering the entropy conservation [41]. Based
on these results, we define T_(c)^(bulk) as the temperature
corresponding to the completion of the resistive transition for all the
other pressures.

## References

* [1] B. T. Matthias, T. H. Geballe, S. Geller, and E. Corenzwit, Phys.
Rev. **95**, 1435 (1954). * [2] A. Godeke, Supercond. Sci. Technol.
**19**, R68 (2006). * [3] G. R. Stewart, Physica C **514**, 28 (2015). *
[4] T. Miyazaki, Y. Murakami, T. Hase, M. Shimada, K. Itoh, T. Kiyoshi,
T. Takeuchi, K. Inoue, and H. Wada, IEEE Trans. Appl. Supercond. **9**,
2505 (1999). * [5] N. Mitchell, P. Bauer, D. Bessette, A. Devred, R.
Gallix, C. Jong, J. Knaster, P. Libeyre, B. Lim, A. Sahu, and F. Simon,
Fusion Eng. Design **84**, 113 (2009). * [6] A. Ballarino and L.
Bottura, IEEE Trans. Appl. Supercond. **25**, 1 (2015). * [7] C.
Paduani, Solid State Commun. **149**, 1269 (2009). * [8] M. Kataoka, J.
Phys. Soc. Jpn. **54**, 29 (1985). * [9] M. Kataoka, J. Phys. C: Solid
State Phys. **19**, 2939 (1986). * [10] D. F. Valentinis, C. Berthod, B.
Bordini, and L. Rossi, Supercond. Sci. Technol. **27**, 025008 (2014). *
[11] C. W. Chu, Phys. Rev. Lett. **33**, 1283 (1974). * [12] C. W. Chu,
in _High-Pressure and Low-Temperature Physics_, edited by C. W. Chu and
J. A. Woollam (Plenum, New York, 1978), p. 359. * [13] J. Labbe, Phys.
Rev. **172**, 451 (1968). * [14] K. C. Lim, J. D. Thompson, and G. W.
Webb, Phys. Rev. B **27**, 2781 (1983). * [15] G. W. Webb, Z. Fisk, J.
J. Engelhardt, and S. D. Bader, Phys. Rev. B **15**, 2624 (1977). * [16]
T. Spina, Ph.D. Thesis, Universite de Geneve, 2015,
https://archive-ouverte.unige.ch/unige:74471. * [17] D. Jaccard, E.
Vargoz, K. Alami-Yadri, and H. Wilhelm, Rev. High Pressure Sci. Technol.
**7**, 412 (1998). * [18] H. Wiesmann, M. Gurvitch, H. Lutz, A. Ghosh,
B. Schwarz, M. Strongin, P. B. Allen, and J. W. Halley, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**38**, 782 (1977). * [19] R. Flukiger, D. Uglietti, C. Senatore, and F.
Buta, Cryogenics **48**, 293 (2008). * [20] In these panels, the
power-law exponent n = 2 is stable within an accuracy better than 0.2 *
[21] S. Tanaka, Handoko, A. Miyake, T. Kagayama, K. Shimizu, A. E.
Bohmer, P. Burger, F. Hardy, C. Meingast, H. Tsutsumi, and Y. Onuki, J.
Phys. Soc. Jpn. **81**, SB026 (2012). * [22] T. F. Smith, J. Low Temp.
Phys. **6**, 171 (1972). * [23] A. Demuer, A. T. Holmes, and D. Jaccard,
J. Phys.: Condens. Matter **14**, L529 (2002). * [24] M. Gurvitch, A. K.
Ghosh, H. Lutz, and M. Strongin, Phys. Rev. B **22**, 128 (1980). * [25]
R. Caton and R. Viswanathan, Phys. Rev. B **25**, 179 (1982). * [26] M.
J. Rice, Phys. Rev. Lett. **20**, 1439 (1968). * [27] L. Qiao and X. J.
Zheng, J. Appl. Phys. **112**, 113909 (2012). * [28] L. Qiao, L. Yang,
and J. Song, Cryogenics **69**, 58 (2015). * [29] M. Nunez-Regueiro, G.
Garbarino, and M. D. Nunez-Regueiro, J. Phys.: Conf. Ser. **400**,
022085 (2012). * [30] D. Forsythe, S. R. Julian, C. Bergemann, E. Pugh,
M. J. Steiner, P. L. Alireza, G. J. McMullan, F. Nakamura, R. K. W.
Haselwimmer, I. R. Walker, S. S. Saxena, G. G. Lonzarich, A. P.
Mackenzie, Z. Q. Mao, and Y. Maeno, Phys. Rev. Lett. **89**, 166402
(2002). * [31] J. O. Willis, J. D. Thompson, Z. Fisk, A. de Visser, J.
J. M. Franse, and A. Menovsky, Phys. Rev. B **31**, 1654(R) (1985). *
[32] J. D. Thompson, M. W. McElfresh, J. O. Willis, Z. Fisk, J. L.
Smith, and M. B. Maple, Phys. Rev. B **35**, 48 (1987). * [33] M. Nunez
Regueiro, M. Jaime, M. A. Alario Franco, J.-J. Capponi, C. Chaillout,
J.-L. Tholence, A. Sulpice, and P. Lejay, Physica C **235**-**240**,
2093 (1994). * [34] R. Falconi, A. Duran, M. Nunez-Regueiro, and R.
Escudero, Phys. Status Solidi A **208**, 2159 (2011). * [35] A. K.
Ghosh, M. Gurvitch, H. Wiesmann, and M. Strongin, Phys. Rev. B **18**,
6116 (1978).

* [36] H. Wiesmann, M. Gurvitch, A. K. Ghosh, H. Lutz, O. F. Kammerer,
and M. Strongin, Phys. Rev. B **17**, 122 (1978). * [37] W. L. McMillan,
Phys. Rev. **167**, 331 (1968). * [38] H. M. Tutuncu, G. P. Srivastava,
S. Bagci, and S. Duman, Phys. Rev. B **74**, 212506 (2006). * [39] B. T.
Gelikman, Soviet Phys. JETP **21**, 796 (1965). * [40] N. Harrison, S.
M. Hayden, P. Meeson, M. Springford, P. J. van der Wel, and A. A.
Menovsky, Phys. Rev. B **50**, 4208 (1994). * [41] N. Tateiwa, Y. Haga,
T. D. Matsuda, S. Ikeda, T. Yasuda, T. Takeuchi, R. Settai, and Y.
Onuki, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **74**, 1903 (2005).
