# Normal-state magnetic susceptibility as a structural probe

in an amorphous superconducting Zr-Co alloy

O. Rapp and L. Hedman

Department of Solid State Physics, The Royal Institute of Technology,
S-100 44 Stockholm, Sweden

23 January 1984; revised manuscript received 29 May 1984

###### Abstract

Amorphous Zr65Co35 alloys were prepared by melt spinning with different
cooling rates. The x-ray diffraction patterns, superconducting
transitions, and normal-state magnetic properties were studied. The
differences in x-ray results and superconducting T_(ϵ)’s between these
samples were small. The temperature and field dependence of the magnetic
susceptibility were both found to vary significantly with cooling rate.
This is interpreted in terms of the effect of varying cooling rate on
Co-rich clusters.

## I Introduction

The basic fact that a glass is not a unique, well-defined structure has
received increased attention only gradually for metal glasses. A reason
may be that it is still too difficult a question to ask how the
microstructure of a glass affects the physical properties. There is
mostly an unfortunate division in the literature between papers dealing
only with structural characterization of glasses and those dealing only
with physical properties.

Nevertheless, several methods have been attempted to correlate physical
and structural properties. One possibility is to prepare samples of
similar composition by different methods. Another approach is to allow
the structure of a given sample to relax by a suitable heat treatment. A
third method is to liquid-quench samples of similar composition and use
different cooling rates. Only in a few cases, however, is there a
physical understanding why a certain structural change leads to the
observed change of a measured property. A detailed description of the
relevant structural changes would seem to be beyond the present
possibilities.

In this paper we report on some effects of structural changes in a metal
glass induced by different cooling rates in melt spinning. X-ray
diffractograms are obtained, the superconducting transition temperature
T_(ϵ) is measured, and the temperature and field dependence of the
normal-state magnetic susceptibility X are studied. Zr65Co35 is chosen
for this investigation since it is easily formed in melt spinning, has a
convenient T_(ϵ), and contains a large fraction of a magnetic element.
With different cooling rates there are significant differences only in
X, however, particularly in its field dependence, while T_(ϵ) remains
largely unaffected. This experiment permits a simple physical
interpretation of the relation between X and cooling rates in terms of
the different distributions and sizes of small Co-rich clusters.

## II Experimental techniques

The samples were prepared from Zr of 99.8 wt.

Melt spinning was performed by melting the samples in an induction
furnace and pressurizing the liquid by Ar gas through an orifice onto a
rotating drum. Oxidation of the samples was prevented by pouring liquid
nitrogen into a large container below the apparatus just prior to
melting so that the drum was surrounded by nitrogen gas. It proved to be
difficult to control the thickness of the ribbons reliably by varying
the ejection pressure and wheel speed.1 By a series of different
attempts it was possible to obtain ribbons of sufficient quantities and
homogeneity.

The thickness of the ribbons was measured with a micrometer. This
procedure overestimates the true thickness by a small fraction due to
the roughness of one surface. The results for the samples used were
22±4, 31±2, and 50±2 μm. The scatter includes measurement errors and
variations along the length of the samples. Due to these uncertainties
the samples are designated by their thickness as 20, 30, and 50 μm,
respectively. The widths of these ribbons were approximately 0.2, 1, and
1 mm, respectively.

A rotating drum of copper was used for the 20- and 30-μm samples and a
stainless-steel cylinder for the 50-μm sample. The cooling rate of this
latter sample was therefore presumably even lower than a comparison
between the different thicknesses would suggest.

Pieces of each sample were examined by Mo Kα radiation at room
temperature. The instrument was equipped with a curved monochromator of
LiF in the diffracted beam, a scintillation counter, a pulse height
analyzer, and a step scanning control. Readings were taken for 100 s at
steps of 0.1deg in θ.

The superconducting transition temperature was measured resistively by a
dc technique with four edges of Cu pressed onto the sample surface. The
measuring current was a few mA. The temperature was obtained from a
calibrated carbon resistor.

The magnetic susceptibility was measured as a function of field up to
1.3 T and temperature in the range 4-300 K. A Faraday method was used.
Several pieces of each sample of length ≃1 cm were bent into a V form
and suspended by a calibrated gold wire. For the 20-μm sample 12 such
pieces were required for a sample mass of 6 mg. With such small masses
the accuracy of the measurements is somewhat reduced and amounts to
approximately 1

## III Results and Discussion

The x-ray results are shown in Fig. 1. k is the magnitude of the
scattering vector, k = 4p sinθ/l. These spectra show that the samples
are x-ray amorphous. The value of k at the first peak, k_(p), is within
2.60 +- 0.01 A-1 in all cases. Thus there are no appreciable differences
in the nearest-neighbor distance for these samples. This value of k_(p)
is in agreement with those reported previously [2,3] for Zr64Co36.

Other differences between the different samples are also small, smaller,
e.g., than those observed after thermal relaxation of an amorphous Zr-Cu
alloy,4 where the half width of the first peak decreased by 4

The superconducting T_(c) was found to be within 2.67 +- 0.05 K for all
samples. The widths of the transitions, which increased with increasing
cooling rate, were in the range 6-20 mK. The result for T_(c) is in
agreement with previous reports such as 2.65 K for a similarly prepared
alloy5 using high-purity _Zr_, 2.70 K obtained by Babic _et al._,6 and
2.71 K from interpolation in the results reported by Altounian and
Strom-Olsen.7 On the other hand, Karkut and Hake8 found T_(c)   2.5 K.
As they pointed out, such a low value is possibly due to impurities.

The range of T_(e) variation for the present samples is small. For
instance, the effect of relaxation experiments is generally [4, 9] to
decrease T_(e) irreversibly by 0.2−0.3 K. Furthermore, T_(e) in Zr-Co
alloys varies appreciably with composition. It decreases linearly with
Co concentration in this concentration region [7, 10] by about 0.12
K/at.

The magnetic susceptibility was found to be somewhat field dependent
which we ascribe to minor ferromagnetic inclusions. For the true
magnetic susceptibility χ one can write

$$\chi = X_{A} - \frac{\omega\sigma}{B}\ ,$$

where X_(A) is the measured apparent susceptibility at field strength B
and ω is the weight fraction of ferromagnetic inclusions of saturated
magnetization σ. One obtains χ by measuring X_(A) at various
sufficiently high fields and extrapolating linearly to 1/B = 0 according
to Eq. (1). Such a field dependence is often observed in amorphous Zr-Co
and Zr-Fe alloys. [7, 10, 11]

The temperature dependence of χ is shown in Fig. 2 and the temperature
dependence of the field dependence, ωσ, is shown in Fig. 3. At room
temperature χ is within 19.7±0.2 mJ/T2 kg for all samples and therefore,
within measurement error, almost independent of cooling rate over the
range of cooling rates employed. Our result for χ at room temperature is
in good agreement with 19.65 mJ/T2 kg given by Babic _et al._[6] and
higher than that obtained by Altounian and Strom-Olsen [7] who report
18.7 mJ/T2 kg for the valence susceptibility of amorphous Zr65Co35, from
which a core contribution of the order of a few mJ/T2 kg should be
subtracted to obtain the measured susceptibility.

The prominent features of Figs. 2 and 3 are the following: With
decreasing temperature χ decreases for intermediate temperatures and
increases at low temperatures. There is thus a minimum in χ at a
temperature $T_{\rm min}$ which increases with decreasing cooling rate.
The field dependence, ωσ, decreases monotonically with increasing
temperature. It increases at all temperatures with decreasing cooling
rate.

As discussed previously, [11] the temperature dependence of ωσ may be
due to one or several of the following mechanisms. With decreasing
temperature (i) the apparent sizes of ferromagnetic clusters increase,
(ii) successively more such clusters may become saturated, and (iii) the
saturation moment of the clusters may increase.

These clusters are presumably a small fraction of the matrix. A lower
limit is obtained if it is assumed that σ of Eq. (1) is due to saturated
Co with σ = 160 A m²/kg. The range of values of ωσ spanned in Fig. 3
would then correspond to cluster fractions in the range 6−40 ppm. Real
cluster fractions may be significantly larger. In amorphous ZrCo alloys
the Co moment decreases gradually with increasing Zr concentration. A
moment of ∼0.2μ_(B)/Co atom was observed [12] at 4.2 K in amorphous
Zr38Co2 and clusters of this composition would therefore correspond to
weight fractions up to 40 times 1.7/0.2≈350 ppm (where 1.7 is the
ferromagnetic Bohr magneton number of pure Co). Even somewhat larger
fractions could be imagined. The Co moment disappears rapidly above 40
at.

These qualitative estimates serve to set a rough scale for these
clusters. In reality a distribution of clusters of different sizes and
Co concentrations is expected. In particular, the Co-rich clusters will
decrease in number and average size when the cooling rate increases.

This simple physical picture provides a consistent interpretation of the
main features of Figs. 2 and 3. ωσ increases with decreasing cooling
rate because the number

Figure 3: Temperature dependence of ωσ, defined in Eq. (1), for the same
samples as in Fig. 2.

Figure 2: Temperature dependence of χ for three Zr65Co35 samples of
different thickness.

and average size of clusters increase. Thereby the probability increases
that clusters of larger Co concentration are formed which carry a larger
moment. Hence both o and s increase. The Curie temperature also
increases with increasing cluster size. Therefore, more clusters
contribute to _o_s_ already at higher temperatures in the more slowly
cooled samples and the temperature dependence of _o_s is stronger and
displaced towards higher temperatures in these samples.

Above 100 K _kh_ and its temperature dependence are similar for the
different samples of Fig. 2 although the correction to the measured
susceptibility has a different magnitude and temperature dependence for
each sample as seen in Fig. 3. This result supports our view that a
magnetic field of 1.3 T is sufficient to saturate most of the
ferromagnetic clusters at these temperatures and that Fig. 2 thus, in
contrast to a recent contention by Kaul,[15] displays the true magnetic
susceptibility for our samples at these temperatures. Furthermore, the
positive temperature dependence of _kh_ at higher temperatures is
similar to that of polycrystalline Zr,[16] This observation and a number
of different results[17, 18, 19, 20] all suggest Zr-like Fermi-surface
properties of amorphous Zr-based alloys.

The rise in _kh_ at decreasing low temperatures may be due to
superparamagnetic clusters and (or) ferromagnetic clusters which are
unsaturated at our measuring fields. More such clusters may be expected
in the more slowly cooled samples and the temperature dependence is then
stronger.

The minimum in _kh_ which develops from the combination of these two
mechanisms is therefore displaced towards higher temperatures with
decreasing cooling rate. A few aspects of Fig. 2 are not accounted for
by this simple model. Specifically we do not understand why _d_kh_/_dT_
at high temperatures is so small for the 20-_m_m sample, nor why
_d_kh_/_dT_ is significantly higher than the high-temperature value for
all samples in the temperature region just above the minima. The
experimental results are summarized in Table 1.

## IV Summary and new problems

Structural changes have been introduced in an amorphous ZrCo alloy by
cooling with different rates from the melt. We have found that the
magnetic susceptibility is a sensitive probe to these small structural
changes, more sensitive than the otherwise structure-sensitive
superconducting _T_c and certainly more sensitive also than the rather
structure-insensitive _x_-ray results. To describe these results we
assume that there are small regions in the samples which are rich in Co
and ferromagnetic. The size and weight fraction of these clusters depend
on cooling rate and temperature. This model accounts for all of the main
features of the influence of varying cooling rates on _kh_. We thus
obtain a simple physical picture of a relation between structure and
property for an amorphous metal.

In this paper we have not further pursued the study of the small
differences in x-ray and _T_c results, but rather used these results as
an indication that the structural changes involved are small and as an
additional check on our sample quality. The present method, however,
shows promising potential in the further study of the interesting and
difficult problem of the relation between structure and physical
properties in disordered systems. For the present alloys other
interesting physical properties include the resistivity and its
temperature dependence and various superconducting properties such as
_T_c and its field dependence and the excess conductivity above _T_c.

It is of particular interest that the present alloys are superconducting
and contain a large fraction of a magnetic element, the distribution of
which can be monitored to some extent by the cooling rate. This would
suggest the possibility for one to study the problem of how
superconductivity vanishes with decreasing Zr concentration and how
ferromagnetism eventually emerges. For instance, it has been argued[6,
21, 22, 23] that spin fluctuations depress _T_c in ZrCo and ZrFe alloys
already at smaller Co concentrations than that presently studied. If
there were spin fluctuations in this alloy, however, they would
presumably be enhanced by the presence of ferromagnetic inclusions.
Since the fraction of these clusters can be varied by more than a factor
of 2 by varying the cooling rate, without any corresponding important
change in _T_c, we find it likely that spin fluctuations are not
significant in depressing _T_c in ZrCo alloys up to 35 at.

## Acknowledgments

We are grateful to A. Ostlund for preparing the samples, to P. -E.
Werner and K. E. Johansson for putting the x-ray equipment at our
disposal and kindly advising us about it, to L. Khlair for his technical
assistance, to G. Grimvall for his comments on the manuscript, and to
Dr. J. O. Strom-Olsen for communicating the results of Ref. 24 prior to
publication.

## References

* [1] H. H. Liebermann and C. D. Graham, Jr., IEEE Trans. Magn.
**MAG-12**, 921 (1976). * [2] K. H. J. Buschow and N. M. Beekmans, Phys.
Rev. B **19**, 3843 (1979). * [3] K. H. J. Buschow, J. Phys. F **14**,
593 (1984). * [4] P. Garoche, Y. Calvayrac, W. Cheng, and J. J. Veyssie,
J. Phys. F **12**, 2783 (1982). * [5] O. Rapp, M. Flodin, A. Ostlund,
and H. Fredriksson, Phys. Scr. **25**, 804 (1982). * [6] E. Babic, R.
Ristic, M. Miljak, and M. G. Scott, in _Proceedings of the 4th
International Conference on Rapidly Quenched Metals, Sendai, 1981_,
edited by T. Masumoto and K. Suzuki (Institute of Metals, Sendai, 1982),
p. 1079. * [7] Z. Altounian and J. O. Strom-Olsen, Phys. Rev. B **27**,
4149 (1983). * [8] M. G. Karkut and R. R. Hake, Phys. Rev. B **28**,
1396 (1983). * [9] A. J. Drehman and W. L. Johnson, Phys. Status Solidi
A **52**, 499 (1979). * [10] O. Rapp, M. Flodin, and L. Hedman, in
_Superconductivity in d- and f-Band Metals–1982_, edited by W. Buckel
and W. Weber (Kernforschungszentrum, Karlsruhe, 1982), p. 351. * [11] L.
Hedman and O. Rapp, Phys. Lett. **100A**, 251 (1984). * [12] N. Heiman
and N. Kazama, Phys. Rev. B **17**, 2215 (1978). * [13] M. B. Maple, in
_Magnetism_, edited by H. Suhl (Academic, New York, 1973), Vol. 5, p.
289. * [14] P. W. Anderson and H. Suhl, Phys. Rev. **116**, 898
(1959). * [15] N. K. Kaul, Phys. Lett. **100A**, 254 (1984). * [16] E.
W. Collings and J. C. Ho, Phys. Rev. B **4**, 349 (1971). * [17] P.
Oelhafen, E. Hauser, H-J. Guntherodt, and K. H. Benneman, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **43**, 1134 (1979). * [18] O. Rapp, J. Jackle, and K. Frobose, J.
Phys. F **11**, 2359 (1981). * [19] R. H. Fairlie, W. H. Temmerman, and
B. L. Gyorffy, J. Phys. F **12**, 1641 (1982). * [20] V. L. Moruzzi, P.
Oelhafen, A. R. Williams, R. Lapka, H-J. Guntherodt, and J. Kubler,
Phys. Rev. B **27**, 2049 (1983). * [21] M. Tenhover and W. L. Johnson,
Physica **108B**, 1221 (1981). * [22] J. Willer, G. Fritsch, and E.
Luscher, J. Less-Common Met. **77**, 191 (1981). * [23] M. Tenhover and
W. L. Johnson, Phys. Rev. B **27**, 1610 (1983). * [24] E. Batalla, Z.
Altounian, and J. O. Strom-Olsen, Phys. Rev. B (to be published).
