Universal V-shaped temperature-pressure phase diagram in the iron-based
superconductors KFe₂As₂, RbFe₂As₂, and CsFe₂As₂

F. F. Tafti,^(1,)1, A. Ouellet,¹, A. Juneau-Fecteau,¹, S. Faucher,¹, M.
Lapointe-Major,¹ N. Doiron-Leyraud,¹ A. F. Wang,² X.-G. Luo,² X. H.
Chen,² and Louis Taillefer^(1, 3,)2

¹Departement de physique & RQMP, Universite de Sherbrooke, Sherbrooke,
Quebec, Canada

²Hefei National Laboratory for Physical Sciences at Microscale and
Department of Physics, University of Science and Technology of China,
Hefei, China

³Canadian Institute for Advanced Research, Toronto, Ontario, Canada

Footnote 1: fazel.fallah.taft@usherbrooke.ca

Footnote 2: louis.taillefer@usherbrooke.ca

Received 18 December 2014; revised manuscript received 23 January 2015;
published 17 February 2015

###### Abstract

We report a sudden reversal in the pressure dependence of $T_{\rm c}$ in
the iron-based superconductor RbFe₂As₂, at a critical pressure
$P_{\rm c}=11$ kbar. Combined with our prior results on KFe₂As₂ and
CsFe₂As₂, we find a universal V-shaped phase diagram for $T_{\rm c}$
versus P in these fully hole-doped 122 materials, when measured relative
to the critical point ($P_{\rm c}$, $T_{\rm c}$). From measurements of
the upper critical field $H_{\rm c2}(T)$ under pressure in KFe₂As₂ and
RbFe₂As₂, we observe the same twofold jump in $(1/T_{\rm c})$
(∼β$H_{\rm c2}/\delta$T)${}_{T_{\rm c}}$ across $P_{\rm c}$, compelling
evidence for a sudden change in the structure of the superconducting
gap. We argue that this change is due to a transition from one pairing
state to another, with different symmetries on either side of
$P_{\rm c}$. We discuss a possible link between scattering and pairing,
and a scenario where a d-wave state favored by high-Q scattering at low
pressure changes to a state with s_(±) symmetry favored by low-Q
scattering at high pressure.

pacs: 74.70.Xa, 74.62.Fj, 61.50.Ks + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL
REVIEW B **91**, 054511 (2015)

## I Introduction

Pairing symmetry in the iron-based superconductors is controlled by the
interband and the intraband interactions which are tunable by external
parameters such as doping or pressure [1, 2]. Recent theoretical works
using a five-orbital tight-binding model show a near degeneracy between
d and s_(±) pairing states in the 122 iron pnictides as a result of the
multiorbital structure of the Cooper pairs and the near-nesting
conditions [3, 4]. Hydrostatic pressure is a clean tuning parameter that
can modify the orbital overlap, the exchange interactions, and the band
structure of metals. Given the near degeneracy between different pairing
states, it is conceivable that the pairing symmetry of certain
iron-based superconductors can be tuned by pressure. These ideas gained
experimental relevance with our recent discovery of a V-shaped T-P phase
diagram in KFe₂As₂ and CsFe₂As₂, where $T_{\rm c}$ decreases initially
as a function of pressure, then at a critical pressure $P_{\rm c}$, it
suddenly changes direction and increases [5, 6]. Our results on KFe₂As₂
have been reproduced by other groups [7, 8, 9]. We interpreted the
transition at $P_{\rm c}$ as a change of pairing state, possibly from d
to s_(±), where the decreasing $T_{\rm c}$ of the former meets the
growing $T_{\rm c}$ of the latter at $P_{\rm c}$, resulting in a
V-shaped phase diagram.

In this paper, we present our discovery of a very similar V-shaped phase
diagram in a third material: RbFe₂As₂. We show that δ$T_{\rm c}$/δP on
both sides of $P_{\rm c}$ is the same in all three materials, which
therefore share a universal V-shaped phase diagram. We show that the
slope of $H_{\rm c2}$ (T) jumps by a factor 2 across $P_{\rm c}$, in a
manner that also appears to be universal. This is compelling evidence
for a sudden change in the gap structure [8], which we attribute to a
change of pairing symmetry.

The Fermi surface of KFe₂As₂ is known in detail from quantum
oscillations studies [10, 11]. It consists of three
quasi-two-dimensional (quasi-2D) holelike cylinders centered on the Γ
point, labeled α (small inner cylinder), ξ (middle cylinder), and β
(large outer cylinder), as well as small cylindrical satellites at the
corners of the Brillouin zone, labeled ε. There is also one small
three-dimensional (3D) hole pocket at the Z point of the Brillouin zone
[12]. The pairing symmetry of KFe₂As₂ at ambient pressure is the subject
of ongoing debate. Laser ARPES experiments suggest a s_(±) state with
eight line nodes on the ξ band and no nodes on the α and β bands [13,
14]. By contrast, bulk measurements of thermal conductivity [15, 16],
heat capacity [17, 18], and penetration depth [19, 20] point to a d-wave
state, with four line nodes on each of the Γ-centered Fermi pockets (α,
ξ, and β).

## II Methods

Single crystals of RbFe₂As₂ were grown using a self-flux method similar
to KFe₂As₂ and CsFe₂As₂[21, 22]. Two samples of RbFe₂As₂, labeled
Samples A and B, were pressurized in a clamp cell and measured up to 22
kbar. The pressure was measured by monitoring the superconducting
transition of a lead gauge placed beside the two samples in the clamp
cell with a precision of ±0.1 kbar. A 1/1 mixture of pentane and
3-methyl-1-butanol was used as the pressure medium. Measurements of
resistivity and Hall effect were performed on both samples in an
adiabatic demagnetization refrigerator using the standard six-contact
configuration. Hall voltage was measured at plus and minus 10 T from
T = 20 K to 1 K and antisymmetrized to calculate the Hall coefficient
$R_{\rm H}$. Excellent reproducibility was observed between the two
samples. To avoid redundancy, we present the results from Sample A,
unless otherwise mentioned.

## III Results and Discussion

We have measured the pressure dependence of four quantities: the
critical temperature $T_{\rm c}$, the Hall coefficient $R_{\rm H}$, the
upper critical field $H_{\rm c2}\left(T\right)$, and the resistivity ρ.
We present each measurement in turn, and discuss the implications.

### Pressure dependence of $T_{\rm c}$

Figure 1(a) shows our discovery of a sudden reversal in the pressure
dependence of $T_{\rm c}$ in RbFe₂As₂ at a critical pressure $P_{\rm c}$
= 11 ± 1 kbar. On the same figure, the green diamonds show $T_{\rm c}$
values reported previously for RbFe₂As₂ from ac susceptibility and μSR
measurements up to 10 kbar by Shermadini _et al._[23]. These data are in
excellent agreement with ours, but they stop at 10 kbar, just before
$P_{\rm c}$. By extrapolation, Shermadini _et al._ concluded that
$T_{\rm c}$ would be fully suppressed at 19 kbar which is the natural
expectation from a superconductor with one dominant pairing state.

We determined $T_{\rm c}$ from resistivity measurements using a ρ = 0
criterion. Figure 1(b) shows three representative resistivity curves at
P < P_(c), where $T_{\rm c}$ decreases by increasing pressure. Figure
1(c) shows three curves at P > P_(c), where $T_{\rm c}$ reverses
direction to increase by increasing pressure. $T_{\rm c}$ varies
linearly near $P_{\rm c}$ from either side, resulting in a V-shaped
phase diagram in RbFe₂As₂, similar to KFe₂As₂ and CsFe₂As₂[5, 6].

In Fig. 2, we compare the phase diagrams of KFe₂As₂, RbFe₂As₂, and
CsFe₂As₂, with $P_{\rm c}$ = 17.5, 11, and 14 kbar, respectively. The
black and gray symbols correspond to two samples of KFe₂As₂ with
different disorder levels. Although the residual resistivity of the less
pure sample (ρ₀ = 1.3 μG cm) is six times larger than that of the pure
sample (ρ₀ = 0.2 μG cm), they have identical $P_{\rm c}$. Hence,
disorder does not affect the critical pressure.

Figure 2 also shows that the phase diagram of the less pure KFe₂As₂
sample (gray) is rigidly shifted down relative to the pure sample
(black). Therefore, the low-pressure and the high-pressure
superconducting phases have comparable (and large) sensitivity to
disorder. The high sensitivity to disorder on both sides of $P_{\rm c}$
is incompatible with the standard $s_{\rm+}$ state, known to be
resilient against disorder [27, 28]. In KFe₂As₂ at ambient pressure, the
steep drop of $T_{\rm c}$ as a function of controlled disorder was shown
to be quantitatively consistent with the high sensitivity of a d-wave
state to disorder [15, 29, 30]. Since the usual $s_{\rm\pm}$ state, with
a sign change between pockets centered at different points in the
Brillouin zone, is known to be much less sensitive to disorder than the
d-wave state [30], it may be that the high-pressure phase is the
$s_{\rm\pm}^{h}$ state proposed for KFe₂As₂[31], where the gap changes
sign between two of the Γ-centered pockets resulting in a higher
sensitivity to disorder.

By measuring the lattice parameters of KFe₂As₂ under pressure, we showed
in Ref. [6] that it takes about 30 kbar to tune the unit-cell volume and
the As-Fe-As bond angle of CsFe₂As₂ to match those of KFe₂As₂.
Therefore, if the structural parameters directly controlled $P_{\rm c}$,
one would expect the critical pressure of CsFe₂As₂ to be 30 kbar larger
than that of KFe₂As₂. As shown in Fig. 2, the $P_{\rm c}$ of CsFe₂As₂ is
in fact

Figure 1: (Color online) (a) Pressure dependence of $T_{\rm c}$ in
RbFe₂As₂. The red and blue circles represent data from Samples A and B,
respectively. $T_{\rm c}$ is defined as the temperature where ρ = 0. The
critical pressure $P_{\rm c}$ marks the reversal in the $T_{\rm c}$
behavior from decreasing to increasing. Dotted lines are linear fits to
the data in the range $P_{\rm c}$± 6 kbar. The critical pressure
$P_{\rm c}$ = 11 ± 1 kbar is defined as the intersection of the two
dotted lines. The green diamonds are data from Ref. [23], where
$T_{\rm c}$ was measured by ac susceptibility and μSR. (b) Three
representative ρ(T) curves in the low-pressure phase ($P<P_{\rm c}$),
from Sample A, normalized to unity at T = 4 K. The arrow shows that
$T_{\rm c}$ decreases with increasing pressure. (c) Same as in (b) for
the high-pressure phase ($P>P_{\rm c}$). The arrow shows that
$T_{\rm c}$ now _increases_ with increasing pressure.

Figure 2: (Color online) Temperature-pressure phase diagram of KFe₂As₂
(black and gray), RbFe₂As₂ (red), and CsFe₂As₂ (green). The residual
resistivity ρ₀ of each sample is indicated. Comparing the black and gray
points shows that $P_{\rm c}$ is unaffected by disorder. The three
compounds show a $T_{\rm c}$ reversal at comparable chiral pressures
(color-coded vertical lines): $P_{\rm c}$ = 17.5, 11, and 14 kbar, in
KFe₂As₂, RbFe₂As₂, and CsFe₂As₂, respectively. Data for KFe₂As₂ and
CsFe₂As₂ are reproduced from Refs. [5, 6], respectively. Error bars are
no larger than the size of the points.

less_ than the $P_{\rm c}$ of KFe₂As₂. Table 1 lists the structural
parameters of the three compounds at ambient pressure. Rb atoms are
intermediate in size between K and Cs, hence, the lattice parameters of
RbFe₂As₂ are in-between those of KFe₂As₂ and CsFe₂As₂. Figure 2 shows
that the $P_{\rm c}$ of RbFe₂As₂ does not fall between those of the
other two compounds. There is indeed no straightforward connection
between lattice parameters, bond angles, or ionic sizes and the actual
values of $P_{\rm c}$ in these three compounds. Interestingly, near
optimal doping, in both 122 and 1111 families, there _is_ indeed a
straightforward connection between the structural parameters and
$T_{\rm c}$[32, 33]. Near optimal doping, d wave is known to be a
subdominant superconducting state while s wave is the dominant one [34].
The loss of this straightforward connection between superconductivity
and structural parameters in the overdoped regime could result from a
dominant d-wave state.

In Fig. 3, we make a direct comparison of the three V-shaped phase
diagrams, by shifting each curve horizontally by $P_{\rm c}$ and
vertically by $T_{\rm c}$ ($P=P_{\rm c}$), so that the tip of the V
coincides for the three materials. Remarkably, we find the same,
universal V-shaped phase diagram in the range $P_{\rm c}\pm 10$ kbar. In
other words, $(\partial T_{\rm c}/\partial\,P)_{P<P_{\rm c}}$ and
$(\partial T_{\rm c}/\partial\,P)_{P>P_{\rm c}}$ are identical in the
three materials. Such a universal phase diagram, independent of the
alkali atom (A) in AFe₂As₂ and of the different structural parameters,
poses a clear challenge to our understanding of multiband
superconductivity.

### Pressure dependence of $R_{\rm H}$

In our previous work on KFe₂As₂ and CsFe₂As₂, we showed that the
V-shaped pressure dependence of $T_{\rm c}$ is not accompanied by any
abrupt changes in the normal-state properties. In particular, the
zero-temperature limit of the Hall coefficient $R_{\rm H}(0)$ was found
constant in both materials as a function of pressure across $P_{\rm c}$,
ruling out a sudden change in the Fermi surface, i.e., a LiFshitz
transition [5, 6]. We concluded that the phase transition at $P_{\rm c}$
is not triggered by some change in the Fermi surface, and is instead
associated with a change in the superconducting state itself. This was
confirmed by quantum oscillation measurements on KFe₂As₂ under pressure,
which found a smooth evolution of the oscillation frequencies and
cyclotron masses across $P_{\rm c}$[7].

Figure 4(a) shows the temperature dependence of $R_{\rm H}$ in RbFe₂As₂,
at various pressures. The low-temperature data go as T², allowing us to
extract $R_{\rm H}(0)$ from a linear fit of $R_{\rm H}(T)$ versus T², as
shown in Fig. 4(b). The $R_{\rm H}(0)$ values are plotted as a function
of pressure in Fig. 4(c). We find a small but smooth variation in
$R_{\rm H}(0)$, with no anomaly at $P_{\rm c}=11$ kbar, very different
from the steplike structure expected of a typical Lifshitz transition
[35].

In Fig. 5, we summarize the results of our Hall measurements in the
three materials. In KFe₂As₂ and CsFe₂As₂, $R_{\rm H}(0)$ is completely
flat with pressure. In RbFe₂As₂, there is a broad structure in
$R_{\rm H}(0)$ and a straight line does not go through all data points.
We attribute this broad feature to a smooth evolution of the Fermi
surface parameters under pressure. Taken together, these Hall data make
a compelling case that the universal V-shaped $T_{\rm c}$ versus P curve
of Fig. 3 is not shaped by a sudden change in the Fermi surface at
$P_{\rm c}$.

### Pressure dependence of $R_{\rm H2}$

Measurements of the upper critical field $H_{\rm C2}$ in KFe₂As₂ under
pressure can be used to provide evidence for a change of gap structure
across $P_{\rm c}$. Recently, Taufour _et al._ found a change of regime
in the dependence of the quantity $(1/T_{\rm c})$
($-\partial\,H_{\rm C2}/\partial\,T)_{T_{\rm c}}$ as a function of the A
coefficient

Figure 3: (Color online) Universal V-shaped phase diagram of AFe₂As₂,
where A= K (black and gray), Rb (red), and Cs (green). Data points from
Fig. 2 are reported with pressure values shifted by the respective
critical pressures ($P_{\rm c}=17.5$, 11, and 14 kbar, for A= K, Rb, and
Cs) and $T_{\rm c}$ values shifted by the respective values of
$T_{\rm c}$ at $P_{\rm c}$ (1.6, 1.2, and 0.7 K, for A= K, Rb, and Cs).
Error bars are no larger than the size of the points. The yellow lines
are linear fits on either side of $P_{\rm c}$.

of resistivity from ρ(T) = ρ₀ + AT²[8]. They linked this change of
regime to a change in the k_(z) corrugations of the superconducting gap
at the critical pressure $P_{\rm c}$. Inspired by their work, we
explored the pressure dependence of $H_{\rm c2}$ in both KFe₂As₂ and
RbFe₂As₂.

At any given pressure, we used measurements of ρ(T) at different fields
to determine $H_{\rm c2}(T)$. Figure 6 shows normalized ρ(T) curves in
RbFe₂As₂ at different fields, for four representative pressures, below
and above $P_{\rm c}=11$ kbar. We define $T_{\rm c}$ at each field from
the resistive transition using the ρ = 0 criterion, then plot those
$T_{\rm c}$ values versus H at each pressure, to arrive at the H-T
curves shown in Fig. 7(a).

The four $H_{\rm c2}\left(T\right)$ curves in Fig. 7(a) should be viewed
in two pairs with comparable $T_{\rm c}$ values on either side of
$P_{\rm c}$, as illustrated in Fig. 7(b). Figure 7(c) summarizes the
results by plotting
$\left(-\partial\,H_{\rm c2}/\partial T\right)_{T_{\rm c}}$ versus
$T_{\rm c}$ for the two pairs of points at $T_{\rm c}\simeq 1.4$ and 1.9
K. At each value of $T_{\rm c}$, the full symbol lies above the empty
one, showing that the high-pressure phase is more robust against the
magnetic field than the low-pressure phase. To obtain
$\left(-\partial\,H_{\rm c2}/\partial\,T\right)_{T_{\rm c}}$ in
RbFe₂As₂, we made linear fits to the H-T curves in Fig. 7(a) near
$T_{\rm c}$.

Figure 8 shows
$\left(1/T_{\rm c}\right)-\partial\,H_{\rm c2}/\partial\,T$ versus
$\left(P-P_{\rm c}\right)$ for both RbFe₂As₂ and KFe₂As₂. In total, we
measured $H_{\rm c2}(T)$ at six different pressures, corresponding to
the six red squares in Fig. 8. The four black data points in Fig. 8 come
from similar measurements on KFe₂As₂, from the $H_{\rm c2}(T)$ curves

Figure 4: (Color online) (a) Temperature dependence of the Hall
coefficient $R_{\rm H}(T)$ in RbFe₂As₂ at four pressures as indicated.
(b) $R_{\rm H}(T)$ plotted versus T² for the same pressures as in (a),
at low temperature. The dotted lines are linear fits from which the
zero-temperature limit of the Hall coefficient $R_{\rm H}(0)$ is
obtained at each pressure. (c) $R_{\rm H}(0)$ plotted as a function of
pressure, showing a small but smooth variation. Vertical and horizontal
error bars are no larger than the size of the points. Vertical error
bars come from the uncertainty in the T² fits in (b), associated with
changing the fitting interval.

Figure 5: (Color online) The zero-temperature limit of the Hall
coefficient $R_{\rm H}(0)$, plotted for the three materials AFe₂As₂,
where A= K (black), Rb (red), and Cs (green). Vertical and horizontal
error bars are no larger than the size of the points. Within error bars,
$R_{\rm H}(0)$ is constant for KFe₂As₂ and CsFe₂As₂ and nearly so for
RbFe₂As₂. Horizontal lines are a guide to the eye. Data for KFe₂As₂ and
CsFe₂As₂ are reproduced from Refs. [5, 6], respectively.

Figure 6: (Color online) Resistivity ρ(T) of RbFe₂As₂ normalized to
unity at T = 2.5 K, at P = 4.0, 8.0, 15.2, and 21.9 kbar. The color of
each curve corresponds to a field H as indicated. At each field,
$T_{\rm c}$ is defined from the resistive transition using the criterion
ρ = 0. This yields the curves of $H_{\rm c2}$ vs T in Fig. 7(a). Note
that the width of the transition is larger in the low-pressure phase
[e.g., in (a)] compared to the high-pressure phase [e.g., in (d)]
because $\partial T_{\rm c}/\partial P$ is almost two times higher in
the low-pressure phase (Fig. 3). Therefore, a small pressure gradient
across the sample in the pressure cell generates a wider transition in
the low-pressure phase.

shown in Fig. 9. The magnitude of $(1/T_{\rm c})$
($-\partial H_{\rm c2}/\partial T$)${}_{T_{\rm c}}$ is the same in the
two materials, on both sides of $P_{\rm c}$, revealing a second
universal property of the pressure-induced transition: a twofold jump in
$(1/T_{\rm c})$ ($-\partial H_{\rm c2}/\partial T$)${}_{T_{\rm c}}$ at
$P=P_{\rm c}$ (Fig. 8).

The Helfand-Werthamer theory, modified for superconductors with
anisotropic gap structures [36], relates the quantity $(1/T_{\rm c})$
($-\partial H_{\rm c2}/\partial T$)${}_{T_{\rm c}}$ to the gap
dispersion Ω and the anisotropic Fermi velocity v₀ through the relation

$$\frac{1}{T_{\rm c}}\left(\frac{-\partial H_{\rm c2}}{\partial T}\right)_{T_{ \rm c}}=\frac{16\pi\phi_{0}k_{\rm B}^{2}}{7\zeta(3)\hbar^{2}}\frac{1}{(\Omega^ {2}\mu_{\rm c})}\frac{1}{v_{0}^{2}},$$
(1)

where ϕ₀, ℏ, and $k_{\rm B}$ are the magnetic flux quantum, the Planck
constant, and the Boltzmann constant. $\mu_{\rm c}$ and v₀ relate to the
Fermi surface parameters according to

$$\mu_{\rm c}=\frac{\dot{v}_{x}^{2}+v_{y}^{2}}{v_{0}^{2}}\cdot\mbox{and}\quad v _{0}^{3}=\frac{2E_{\rm F}^{2}}{\pi^{2}\hbar^{3}N(0)},$$
(2)

where $E_{\rm F}$ and N(0) are the Fermi energy and the density of
states at the Fermi level. Fermi velocity is not a constant at
anisotropic Fermi surfaces, hence, a characteristic constant velocity v₀
is defined in Eq. (2) applicable to anisotropic Fermi surfaces [36]. For
the isotropic case, one recovers $v_{0}=v_{\rm F}$. The function Ω
describes the momentum dependence of the superconducting gap:
$\Delta=\Psi({\bf r},{\bf T})\Omega({\bf k}_{\rm F})$. The averages ⟨…⟩
are taken over the Fermi surface.

Given that quantum oscillation measurements in KFe₂As₂ under pressure
show a smooth evolution of $v_{\rm F}$ across $P_{\rm c}$[7], the
twofold jump in $(1/T_{\rm c})$
($-\partial H_{\rm c2}/\partial T$)${}_{T_{\rm c}}$ observed at
$P_{\rm c}$ can only

Figure 7: (Color online) The full symbols in this figure represent the
high-pressure phase ($P>P_{\rm c}$) and the empty symbols represent the
low-pressure phase ($P<P_{\rm c}$). (a) $H_{\rm c2}$ (T) in RFe₂As₂ at
four pressures. The light blue pair of curves starts from
$T_{\rm c}\simeq 1.9$ K and the dark blue pair starts from
$T_{\rm c}\simeq 1.4$ K, at H = 0. At a given $T_{\rm c}$ the
low-pressure curve has a lower slope compared to the high-pressure one.
(b) The V-shaped phase diagram of RFe₂As₂, rotated by 90^(∘), with lines
that cut through the “V” at pairs of pressures corresponding to the
light blue and the dark blue curves in panel (a). (c)
$(-\partial H_{\rm c2}/\partial T)$${}_{T_{\rm c}}$ is extracted from
linear fits to the curves in panel (a) near $T_{\rm c}$ and plotted
against $T_{\rm c}$. The light blue pair of points is vertically aligned
at $T_{\rm c}\simeq 1.9$ K and the dark blue pair at
$T_{\rm c}\simeq 1.4$ K corresponding to the vertical lines in panel
(b). Error bars are no larger than the size of the points. We observe
that consistently $(-\partial H_{\rm c2}/\partial T)$${}_{T_{\rm c}}$ is
larger in the high-pressure phase.

Figure 9: (Color online) $H_{\rm c2}(T)$ in KFe₂As₂ plotted as a
function of $T/\,T_{\rm c}$. At each pressure,
$(-\partial H_{\rm c2}/\partial T)$${}_{T_{\rm c}}$ is obtained by
fitting a line to the $H_{\rm c2}\,(T)$ curve near $T_{\rm c}$. The
resulting $(1/T_{\rm c})$
($-\partial H_{\rm c2}/\partial T)$${}_{T_{\rm c}}$ values are the black
data points in Fig. 8. Solid lines are a guide to the eye.

be the result of a sudden change in the gap dispersion function O in Eq.
(1), caused by a sudden change in the structure of the superconducting
gap across $P_{\rm c}$. The most natural mechanism for such a change is
a transition from one pairing state to another, with a change of
symmetry, e.g., from d wave to s wave.

### Pressure dependence of ρ(T)

In a recent theoretical work, Fernandes and Millis showed how different
spin-mediated pairing interactions in iron-based superconductors can
favor different pairing symmetries [4]. In their model, based on the
standard Fermi surface with holelike pockets at the Γ point and electron
pockets at the X points, spin density wave (SDW) type magnetic
fluctuations, with wave vector (π, 0), favor s_(±) pairing, whereas
Neel-type fluctuations, with wave vector (π,π), favor d-wave pairing. A
gradual increase in the (π,π) fluctuations rapidly suppresses the s_(±)
superconducting state and eventually causes a phase transition from the
s_(±) state to a d-wave state, producing a V-shaped phase diagram of
$T_{\rm c}$ versus tuning parameter [strength of (π, π) correlations]
[4].

It is conceivable that two such competing interactions are at play in
$\rm{AFe}_{2}\rm{As}_{2}$, with pressure tilting the balance in favor of
one versus the other. We explore such a scenario by looking at how the
inelastic scattering evolves with pressure, measured via the inelastic
resistivity, defined as $\rho(T=20\ \rm{K})-\rho_{0}$. Figure 10 shows
the temperature dependence of resistivity, at six representative
pressures, in $\rm{R}\rm{R}\rm{F}_{2}\rm{As}_{2}$. The residual
resistivity ρ₀ comes from a power-law fit to the resistivity at any
pressure, of the form $\rho=\rho_{0}+AT^{\rm{*}}$. The resulting ρ₀ does
not change with pressure. $\rho(T=20\ \rm{K})$ is the value of the
resistivity at $T=20\ \rm{K}$, at any given pressure. Through the same
procedure, we extracted ρ₀ and $\rho(T=20\ \rm{K})$ as a function of
pressure in $\rm{K}\rm{F}_{2}\rm{As}_{2}$ and
$\rm{C}\rm{S}\rm{F}_{2}\rm{As}_{2}$, from published data [5, 6]. In Fig.
11, the inelastic resistivity $\rho(T=20\ \rm{K})-\rho_{0}$ is plotted
as a function of $P-P_{\rm c}$. In all three materials, at
$P-P_{\rm c}>0$, the inelastic resistivity varies linearly with
pressure. As P drops below $P_{\rm c}$ in the low-pressure phase
($P-P_{\rm c}<0$), the inelastic resistivity shows a clear rise over and
above the linear regime. Figure 11 therefore suggests a connection
between the transition in the pressure dependence of $T_{\rm c}$ and the
appearance of an additional inelastic scattering channel. Note that our
choice of $T=20\ \rm{K}$ to define the inelastic resistivity is
arbitrary; resistivity cuts at any other temperature above $T_{\rm c}$
give qualitatively similar results.

Now, the intraband inelastic scattering wave vectors that favor d-wave
pairing in $\rm{K}\rm{F}_{2}\rm{As}_{2}$ are large-Q processes where Q
is the momentum transfer [37]. By contrast, theoretical calculations
show that the $s_{\pm}^{\rm{d}}$ pairing state, which changes sign
between the α and the ξ hole pockets, is favored by small-Q interband
interactions [31]. Therefore, one scenario in which to understand the
evolution in the inelastic resistivity with pressure (Fig. 11), and its
link to the $T_{\rm c}$ reversal, is the following. At low pressure, the
large-Q scattering processes that favor d-wave pairing make a
substantial contribution to the resistivity, as they produce a large
change in momentum. These weaken with pressure, causing a decrease in
both $T_{\rm c}$ and the resistivity. This decrease persists until the
low-Q processes

Figure 10: (Color online) Resistivity of sample A as a function of
temperature up to 30 K, at six representative pressures, as indicated.
The vertical arrow that cuts through the resistivity curves at
$T=20\ \rm{K}$ defines $\rho(T=20\ \rm{K})$. The black dotted line is a
power-law fit to the resistivity curve at $P=21.9\ \rm{bar}$, in the
interval from $T=3\ \rm{K}$ to 15 K. We define the residual resistivity
ρ₀ as the zero-temperature limiting value of this fit. The inset shows
the pressure dependence of the inelastic resistivity
$\rho(T=20\ \rm{K})-\rho_{0}$. The vertical arrow in the inset shows
$P_{\rm c}=11\ \rm{kbar}$. The red dashed line is a linear fit to the
inelastic resistivity as a function of pressure at $P>P_{\rm c}$.

Figure 11: (Color online) Inelastic resistivity defined as
$\rho(T=20\ \rm{K})-\rho_{0}$ and plotted versus $P-P_{\rm c}$ in
$\rm{K}\rm{F}_{2}\rm{As}_{2}$ (black symbols, $P_{\rm c}$ = 17.5 kbar,
$\rm{R}\rm{F}_{2}\rm{As}_{2}$ (red symbols, $P_{\rm c}$ = 11 kbar), and
$\rm{C}\rm{S}\rm{F}_{2}\rm{As}_{2}$ (green symbols, $P_{\rm c}$ = 14
kbar). Dashed lines are linear fits to the data at $P-P_{\rm c}>0$
showing that the inelastic resistivity scales linearly with pressure in
the high-pressure phase above $P_{\rm c}$. As the pressure is lowered
below $P_{\rm c}$, a new channel contributes to the inelastic
resistivity of $\rm{AF}_{2}\rm{As}_{2}$ shown as shaded areas in gray,
red, and green for A ≡ K, Rb, and Cs. The vertical black line marks
$P=P_{\rm c}$.

that favor $s_{\rm{k}}^{\rm{I}}$ pairing, less visible in the
resistivity, come to dominate, above $P_{\rm{c}}$.

## IV Summary

In summary, we report a universal V-shaped pressure dependence of
$T_{\rm{c}}$ in AFe₂As₂ with A = K, Rb, and Cs. Remarkably, the
temperature-pressure superconducting phase diagram of these fully
hole-doped iron arsenides is universal, unaffected by a change in the
alkali atom A_(i) with its concomitant changes in structural parameters.
In the absence of any sudden change in the Fermi surface across the
critical pressure $P_{\rm{c}}$, we interpret the $T_{\rm{c}}$ reversal
at $P_{\rm{c}}$ as a transition from one pairing state to another. The
observation of a sudden change in the upper critical field
$H_{\rm{c2}}(T)$, which also appears to be universal in that it is
identical in RbFe₂As₂ and KFe₂As₂, is compelling evidence of a sudden
change in the structure of the superconducting gap across $P_{\rm{c}}$.
Our proposal is a d-wave state below $P_{\rm{c}}$ and a so-called
$s_{\rm{k}}^{\rm{I}}$ state, where the gap changes sign between
Γ-centered hole pockets, above $P_{\rm{c}}$. Our study of the pressure
dependence of resistivity in KFe₂As₂, CsFe₂As₂, and RbFe₂As₂ reveals a
possible link between $T_{\rm{c}}$ and inelastic scattering. As the
pressure is lowered, the large-Q inelastic scattering processes that
favor d-wave pairing grow until at a critical pressure $P_{\rm{c}}$ they
cause a change of pairing symmetry from s wave to d wave.

###### Acknowledgements.

We thank J. Carbotte, A. V. Chubukov, J. P. Clancy, R. M. Fernandes, M.
Franz, Y.-J. Kim, C. Meingast, A. J. Millis, R. Prozorov, P. Richard, M.
A. Tanatar, V. Taufour, I. Vekhter, and H. von Lohneysen for helpful
discussions, as well as B. Vincent and S. Fortier for assistance with
the experiments. The work at Sherbrooke was supported by the Canadian
Institute for Advanced Research and a Canada Research Chair and it was
funded by National Science and Engineering Research Council of Canada,
Fonds de Recherche du Quebec Nature et Technologies, and Canada
Foundation for Innovation. Work done in China was supported by the
National Natural Science Foundation of China (Grant No. 11190021), the
Strategic Priority Research Program (B) of the Chinese Academy of
Sciences, and the National Basic Research Program of China.

## References

* [1] A. Chubukov, Pairing mechanism in Fe-based superconductors, Annu.
Rev. Condens. Matter Phys. **3**, 57 (2012). * [2] P. J. Hirschfeld, M.
M. Korshunov, and I. I. Mazin, Gap symmetry and structure of Fe-based
superconductors, Rep. Prog. Phys. **74**, 124508 (2011). * [3] S.
Graser, T. A. Maier, P. J. Hirschfeld, and D. J. Scalapino,
Near-degeneracy of several pairing channels in multiorbital models for
the Fe pnictides, New J. Phys. **11**, 025016 (2009). * [4] R. M.
Fernandes and A. J. Millis, Suppression of superconductivity by
Neel-type magnetic fluctuations in the iron pnictides, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**110**, 117004 (2013). * [5] F. F. Tafti, A. Juneau-Fecteau, M.-E.
Delage, S. Rene de Cotret, J.-P. Reid, A. F. Wang, X.-G. Luo, X. H.
Chen, N. Doiron-Leyraud, and L. Taillefer, Sudden reversal in the
pressure dependence of $T_{\rm{c}}$ in the iron-based superconductor
KFe₂As₂, Nat. Phys. **9**, 349 (2013). * [6] F. F. Tafti, J. P. Clancy,
M. Lapointe-Major, C. Collignon, S. Faucher, J. A. Sears, A.
Juneau-Fecteau, N. Doiron-Leyraud, A. F. Wang, X.-G. Luo, X. H. Chen, S.
Desgreniers, Y.-J. Kim, and L. Taillefer, Sudden reversal in the
pressure dependence of $T_{\rm{c}}$ in the iron-based superconductor
CsFe₂As₂: A possible link between inelastic scattering and pairing
symmetry, Phys. Rev. B **89**, 134502 (2014). * [7] T. Terashima, K.
Kihou, K. Sugii, N. Kikugawa, T. Matsumoto, S. Ishida, C.-H. Lee, A.
Iyo, H. Eisaki, and S. Uji, Two distinct superconducting states in
KFe₂As₂ under high pressure, Phys. Rev. B **89**, 134520 (2014). * [8]
V. Taufour, N. Foroozani, M. A. Tanatar, J. Lim, U. Kaluarachchi, S. K.
Kim, Y. Liu, T. A. Lograsso, V. G. Kogan, R. Prozorov, S. L. Bud’ko, J.
S. Schilling, and P. C. Canfield, Upper critical field of KFe₂As₂ under
pressure: A test for the change in the superconducting gap structure,
Phys. Rev. B **89**, 220509 (2014). * [9] V. Grinenko, W. Schottenhamel,
A. U. B. Wolter, D. V. Efremov, S.-L. Drechsler, S. Aswartham, M. Kumar,
S. Vurmehl, M. Roslova, I. V. Morozov, B. Holzapfel, B. Buchner, E.
Ahrens, S. I. Troyanov, S. Kohler, E. Gati, S. Knoner, N. H. Hoang, M.
Lang, F. Ricci, and G. Profeta, Superconducting properties of
K_(1 − x)Na_(x)Fe₂As₂ under pressure, Phys. Rev. B **90**, 094511
(2014). * [10] T. Terashima, M. Kimata, N. Kurita, H. Satsukawa, A.
Harada, K. Hazama, M. Imai, A. Sato, K. Kihou, C.-H. Lee, H. Kito, H.
Eisaki, A. Iyo, T. Saito, H. Fukazawa, Y. Kohori, H. Harima, and S. Uji,
Fermi surface and mass enhancement in KFe₂As₂ from de h₂wasan alpine
effect measurements, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **79**, 053702 (2010). * [11] T.
Terashima, N. Kurita, M. Kimata, M. Tomita, S. Tsuchiya, M. Imai, A.
Sato, K. Kihou, C.-H. Lee, H. Kito, H. Eisaki, A. Iyo, T. Saito, H.
Fukazawa, Y. Kohori, H. Harima, and S. Uji, Fermi surface in KFe₂As₂
determined via de Haas-van Alphen oscillation measurements, Phys. Rev. B
**87**, 224512 (2013). * [12] Diego A. Zocco, Kai Grube, Felix Eilers,
Thomas Wolf, and Hilbert v. Lohneysen, Fermi surface of KFe₂As₂ from
quantum oscillations in magnetostriction, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **3**,
015007 (2014). * [13] K. Okazaki, Y. Ota, Y. Kotani, W. Malaeb, Y.
Ishida, T. Shimojima, T. Kiss, S. Watanabe, C.-T. Chen, K. Kihou, C. H.
Lee, A. Iyo, H. Eisaki, T. Saito, H. Fukazawa, Y. Kohori, K. Hashimoto,
T. Shibauchi, Y. Matsuda, H. Ikeda, H. Miyahara, R. Arita, A. Chainani,
and S. Shin, Octet-line node structure of superconducting order
parameter in KFe₂As₂, Science **337**, 1314 (2012). * [14] D. Watanabe,
T. Yamashita, Y. Kawamoto, S. Kurata, Y. Mizukami, T. Ohta, S. Kasahara,
M. Yamashita, T. Saito, H. Fukazawa, Y. Kohori, S. Ishida, K. Kihou, C.
H. Lee, A. Iyo, H. Eisaki, A. B. Vorontsov, T. Shibauchi, and Y.
Matsuda, Doping evolution of the quasiparticle excitations in heavily
hole-doped Ba_(1 − x)K_(x)Fe₂As₂: A possible superconducting gap with
signreversal between hole pockets, Phys. Rev. B **89**, 115112 (2014).

* [15] J.-P. Reid, M. A. Tanatar, A. Juneau-Fecteau, R. T. Gordon, S. R.
de Cotret, N. Doiron-Leyraud, T. Saito, H. Fukazawa, Y. Kohori, K.
Kihou, C. H. Lee, A. Iyo, H. Eisaki, R. Prozorov, and L. Taillefer,
Universal heat conduction in the iron arsenide superconductor Re_(x)As₂:
Evidence of a d-wave state, Phys. Rev. Lett. **109**, 087001 (2012). *
[16] J.-P. Reid, A. Juneau-Fecteau, R. T. Gordon, S. Rene de Cotret, N.
Doiron-Leyraud, X.-G. Luo, H. Shakeripour, J. Chang, M. A. Tanatar, H.
Kim, R. Prozorov, T. Saito, H. Fukazawa, Y. Kohori, K. Kihou, C. H. Lee,
A. Iyo, H. Eisaki, B. Shen, H. Wen, and L. Taillefer, From d-wave to
s-wave pairing in the iron-pnictide superconductor (Ba,K)Fe₂As₂:
Supercond. Sci. Technol. **25**, 084013 (2012). * [17] M. Abdel-Hafare,
V. Grinenko, S. Aswartham, I. Morozov, M. Roslova, O. Vakulski, S.
Johnston, D. V. Efremov, J. van den Brink, H. Rosner, M. Kumar, C. Hess,
S. Wurmehl, A. U. B. Wolter, B. Buchner, E. L. Green, J. Wosnitza, P.
Vogt, A. Reifenberger, C. Enss, M. Hempel, R. Klingeler, and S.-L.
Drechsler, Evidence of d-wave superconductivity in K_(1 − x)Na_(x)Fe₂As₂
(x = 0, 0.1) single crystals from low-temperature specific-heat
measurements, Phys. Rev. B **87**, 180507(R) (2013). * [18] V. Grinenko,
D. V. Efremov, S.-L. Drechsler, S. Aswartham, D. Gruner, M. Roslova, I.
Morozov, K. Nenkov, S. Wurmehl, A. U. B. Wolter, B. Holzapfel, and B.
Buchner, Superconducting specific-heat jump ΔCa at T_(c)⁶ (β ≈ 2) for
K_(1 − x)Na_(x)Fe₂As₂, Phys. Rev. B **89**, 060504(R) (2014). * [19] K.
Hashimoto, A. Serafin, S. Tonegawa, R. Katsumata, R. Okazaki, T. Saito,
H. Fukazawa, Y. Kohori, K. Kihou, C. H. Lee, A. Iyo, H. Eisaki, H.
Ikeda, Y. Matsuda, A. Carrington, and T. Shibauchi, Evidence for
superconducting gap nodes in the zone-centered hole bands of KFe₂As₂
from magnetic penetration-depth measurements, Phys. Rev. B **82**,
014526 (2010). * [20] H. Kim, M. A. Tanatar, Y. Liu, Z. C. Sims, C.
Zhang, P. Dai, T. A. Lograsso, and R. Prozorov, Evolution of fondon
penetration depth with scattering in single crystals of
K_(1 − x)Na_(x)Fe₂As₂, Phys. Rev. B **89**, 174519 (2014). * [21] A. F.
Wang, B. Y. Pan, X. G. Luo, F. Chen, Y. J. Yan, J. J. Ying, G. J. Ye, P.
Cheng, X. C. Hong, S. Y. Li, and X. H. Chen, Calorimetric study of
single-crystal SScF₂As₂, Phys. Rev. B **87**, 214509 (2013). * [22] Z.
Zhang, A. F. Wang, X. C. Hong, J. Zhang, B. Y. Pan, J. Pan, Y. Xu, X. G.
Luo, X. H. Chen, and S. Y. Li, Heat transport in RbFe₂As₂ single
crystal: Evidence for nodal superconducting gap, Phys. Rev. B **91**,
024502 (2015). * [23] Z. Shermadini, H. Luetkens, A. Maisuradze, R.
Khasanov, Z. Bukowski, H.-H. Klauss, and A. Amato, Superfluid density
and superconducting gaps of RbFe₂As₂ as a function of hydrostatic
pressure, Phys. Rev. B **86**, 174516 (2012). * [24] K. Sasmal, B. Lv,
B. Lorenz, A. M. Guloy, F. Chen, Y.-Y. Xue, and C.-W. Chu,
Superconducting Fe-based compounds (A_(1 − x)Sr_(x))Fe₂As₂ with A=K and
Cs with transition temperatures up to 37 K, Phys. Rev. Lett. **101**,
107007 (2008).. * [25] M. Afdhauzzaman and A. K. M. A. Islam, New
superconducting Re_(x)As₂: A first-principles investigation, Phys. C
(Amsterdam) **470**, 202 (2010). * [26] F. Hardy, A. E. Bohmer, D. Aoki,
P. Burger, T. Wolf, P. Schweiss, R. Heid, P. Adelmann, Y. X. Yao, G.
Kotliar, J. Schmalian, and C. Meingast, Evidence of strong correlations
and coherence-incoherence crossover in the iron pnictide superconductor
KFe₂As₂, Phys. Rev. Lett. **111**, 027002 (2013). * [27] P. W. Anderson,
Theory of dirty superconductors, J. Phys. Chem. Solids **11**, 26
(1959). * [28] R. Prozorov, M. Konczykowski, M. A. Tanatar, A. Thaler,
S. L. Bud’ko, P. C. Canfield, V. Mishra, and P. J. Hirschfeld, Effect of
electron irradiation on superconductivity in single crystals of
Ba[Fe_(1 − x)Ru_(x)]₂As₂ (x = 0.24), Phys. Rev. X **4**, 041032
(2014). * [29] A. F. Wang, S. Y. Zhou, X. G. Luo, X. C. Hong, Y. J. Yan,
J. J. Ying, P. Cheng, G. J. Ye, Z. J. Xiang, S. Y. Li, and X. H. Chen,
Anomalous impurity effects in the iron-based superconductor KFe₂As₂,
Phys. Rev. B **89**, 064510 (2014). * [30] K. Kirshenbaum, S. R. Saha,
S. Ziemak, T. Drye, and J. Paglione, Universal pair-breaking in
transition-metalsubstituted iron-pnictide superconductors, Phys. Rev. B
**86**, 140505 (2012). * [31] S. Maiti, M. M. Korshunov, and A. V.
Chubukov, Gap symmetry in KFe₂As₂ and the cos 4θ gap component in
LiFeAs, Phys. Rev. B **85**, 014511 (2012). * [32] M. Rotter, M.
Pangerl, M. Tegel, and D. Johrendt, Superconductivity and crystal
structures of (Ba_(1 − x)K₀)Fe₂As₂ (x = 01), Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.
**47**, 7949 (2008). * [33] K. Miyoshi, E. Kojima, S. Ogawa, Y. Shimojo,
and J. Takeuchi, Superconductivity under pressure in RFeAsO_(1 − x)F_(c)
(R = La, Ce-Sm) by dc magnetization measurements, Phys. Rev. B **87**,
235111 (2013). * [34] F. Kretresham, B. Muschler, T. Bohm, A. Baum, R.
Hackl, H.-H. Wen, V. Turkan, J. Deisenhofer, and A. Loidl,
Raman-scattering detection of nearly degenerate s-wave and d-wave
pairing channels in iron-based Ba_(0.6)K_(0.6)Fe₂As₂ and
Rb_(0.3)Fe_(1.6)Se₂ superconductors, Phys. Rev. Lett. **110**, 187002
(2013). * [35] C. Liu, T. Kondo, R. M. Fernandes, A. D. Palczewski, E.
D. Mun, N. Ni, A. N. Thaler, A. Bostwick, E. Rotenberg, J. Schmalian, S.
L. Bud’ko, P. C. Canfield, and A. Kaminski, Evidence for a lifshitz
transition in electron-doped iron arsenic superconductors at the onset
of superconductivity, Nat. Phys. **6**, 419 (2010). * [36] V. G. Kogan
and R. Prozorov, Orbital upper critical field and its anisotropy of
clean one- and two-band superconductors, Rep: Prog. Phys. **75**, 114502
(2012). * [37] R. Thomale, C. Platt, W. Hanke, J. Hu, and B. A.
Bernevig, Exotic d-wave superconducting state of strongly hole-doped
K₂Ba_(1 − x)Fe₂As₂, Phys. Rev. Lett. **107**, 117001 (2011).

Copyright of Physical Review B: Condensed Matter & Materials Physics is
the property of American Physical Society and its content may not be
copied or emailed to multiple sites or posted to a listserv without the
copyright holder’s express written permission. However, users may print,
download, or email articles for individual use.
