Superconductivity and structural variation of the electron-correlated
layer systems Sr(Pd1-_x_T_)2Ge2 (_T_ = Co, Ni, Rh; 0 <= x <= 1)

J. W. Wang, I. A. Chen, T. L. Hung, Y. B. You, and H. C. Ku

Department of Physics, National Tsing Hua University, Hsinchu 30013,
Taiwan, Republic of China

Y. Y. Hsu

Department of Physics, National Taiwan Normal University, Taipei 10677,
Taiwan, Republic of China

J. C. Ho

Department of Physics, Wichita State University, Wichita, Kansas
67260-0032, USA

Y. Y. Chen

Institute of Physics, Academia Sinica, Taipei 11529, Taiwan, Republic of
China

12 July 20112 July 20112 July 20126 December 20112 July 20126 December
20112 July 20126 December 20112 July 20126 December 20112 July 20126
December 20112 July 20126 December 20112 July 20126 December 20112 July
20126 December 20112 July 20126 December 2012 Sr(Pd_(1 − x)_T_(x)_)₂Ge₂
(T = Co, Ni, Rh)? (2) What is the origin of higher-T_(c) in the
isostructural Ba(Fe_(1 − x)Co_(x))₂As₂ layer system?

## II Experiment

The ternary and pseudoternary Sr(T_(1 − x)_T^(′)x_(x)_)₂Ge₂ samples (T,
T^(′) = Co, Ni, Rh, or Pd; 0 ≤x≤ 1) were prepared by two-step arc
melting under argon atmosphere. High-purity transition metals Co, Ni,
Rh, and Pd (>99.9

The x-ray powder-diffraction (XPD) data were collected by a Rigaku
Roatfaek 18-kW rotating anode diffractometer with graphite
monochromatized Cu-K_(α) radiation with a scanning step of 0.02^(∘) in
the 2θ range 5^(∘)-100^(∘).

The electrical resistivity was measured by a standard four-probe method
in a ³He refrigerator from 0.4 to 300 K. The magnetic susceptibility and
magnetization data were collected with a Quantum Design 1-T μ-metal
shielded MPMS₂ superconducting quantum interference device (SQUID)
magnetometer from 2 to 300 K. The low-temperature heat-capacity data
down to 0.3 K were collected in zero applied field and B_(a) = 7 T using
the relaxation method.

For magnetic anisotropic measurements, the microcrystalline powder with
average grain size d ∼ 1-10 μm was mixed with epoxy and aligned within a
rotating quartz tube (ϕ = 8 mm) in a 0.9-T magnetic field perpendicular
to the rotating axis at 300 K. The weight ratio of powder to epoxy is
1:5 and the curing time is at least 4 h. Since the tetragonal basal
plane is aligned along B_(a), the c axis can be in any direction
perpendicular to B_(a). A 10-rpm spin of the quartz tube with rotating
axis normal to B_(a) forces the c axis of microcrystalline powders to
align along the rotating axis.[20]

## III Results and Discussion

The ternary SrT₂Ge₂ compounds (T = Co, Ni, Rh, Pd) crystallized with the
BaFe₂As₂-type body-centered-tetragonal (bct) structure are shown in Fig.
1, with Sr at (2a):(0, 0, 0), T at (4d):(0, 1₂, 4$\frac{1}{2}$), Ge at
(4e):(0, 0, z) of space group _14_/_mmm_ (Z = 2). The (TGe)¹⁻ layers are
separated by Sr²⁺ layers in this layer system. Within the layer, the
TGe₄ tetrahedron was squeezed along the c axis, with different internal
coordinates z of Ge for each metal T summarized in Table 1.[13, 14, 15,
16, 17]

The x-ray powder-diffraction patterns are shown collectively in Fig. 2
with the corresponding tetragonal lattice parameters summarized in Table
1.

Lattice parameter a and the T-T bond length d(T-T) = a/$\sqrt{2}$
decrease with decreasing transition-metal T sizes, from d(Pd-Pd) = 0.313
nm to d(Co-Co) = 0.288 nm, as shown in Table 1. The long T-T bond length
indicates weak direct electron T-T hopping within the T-Ge layer.

An anomalous c/a ratio increases from 2.286 for T = Pd(4d⁸) to 2.452 for
Ni(3d⁸), to 2.558 for Rh(4d⁷), and to 2.624 for Co(3d⁷) due to the
squeezed TGe₄ tetrahedron along the c axis, but is still smaller than
c/a = 1.2980 nm/0.3964 nm = 3.275 for the isostructural
BaFe_(1.8)Co_(0.2)As₂ superconductor.[4, 5, 6]

All bond angles θ(Ge-T-Ge) in the squeezed tetrahedron along the c axis
of the pseudoternary systems Sr(Pd_(1 − x)_T_(x)_)₂Ge₂ (T = Co, Ni, Rh)
are larger than 109.3^(∘) for unsqueezed ideal tetrahedron as shown in
Fig. 3. A bond angle of 122.5^(∘) is observed for Pd with eight 4d
electrons, which is similar to 122.4^(∘) for the isoelectronic Ni with
eight 3d electrons, but is greater than 118.2^(∘) for Co with seven 3d
electrons and 116.1^(∘) for Rh with seven 4d electrons.

The five degenerate _nd_ orbitals were split into an up-lying _t_(2g)_
triplet and a lower-lying _e_(g)_ doublet in the undistorted tetrahedral
crystal field with bond angle of 109.3^(∘). In the _c_-axis squeezed
TGe₄ tetrahedral crystal field, the _t_(2g)_ triplet is further split
into one up-lying doublet _d_(xz, yz)_ and one lower-lying _d_(xy)_
level. The _e_(g)_ doublet is split into _d_(yz, yz)_-_r²_ and
_d_(xz − yz)_ levels. The conduction bands are formed by _d_(xz, yz)_
and _d_(xy)_ orbitals with light electronlike bands from an up-lying
_d_(xz, yz)_ doublet and a heavy-hole-like band from a lower-lying
_d_(xy)_ level. With eight _nd_ electrons in T = Ni and Pd, the _d_(xz)_
and _d_(yz)_ bands are close to half filled, with some hole pockets in
the lower _d_(xy)_ band, and no Fermi surface is expected on lower-lying
_d_(3z² − r²)_ and _d_(z² − y²)_ bands. With seven _nd_ electrons in T =
Co and Rh and a down shift of Fermi energy _E_(F)_ by one less electron,
the _d_(xz)_ and _d_(yz)_ bands are less than half filled, with some
hole pockets in the lower _d_(xy)_ band.

  T     _z_(Ge)    a (nm)       c (nm)     _c_/_a_   _d_(T-T) (nm)
  ---- --------- ----------- ------------ --------- ---------------
  Pd     0.370    0.4420(4)   1.0104(10)    2.286        0.313
  Ni     0.362    0.4181(4)   1.0251(10)    2.452        0.296
  Rh     0.368    0.4193(4)   1.0724(10)    2.558        0.296
  Co     0.364    0.4071(4)   1.0683(10)    2.624        0.288

Table 1: Lattice parameters summarized from the x-ray powder-diffraction
data of the tetragonal SrT₂Ge₂ system (T = Pd, Ni, Rh, Co) with
respective z coordinates of Ge at (4e) :(0,0,z).

Figure 1: (Color online) Ternary SrT₂Ge₂ compounds (T = Co, Ni, Rh, Pd)
with the BaFe₂As₂-type body-centered-tetragonal (bct) layer structure,
with squeezed TGe₄ tetrahedron along c axis.

The T-Ge bond length d(T-Ge) = [a²/4 + (z − 1/4)²c²]^(1/2) as shown in
the inset of Fig. 3 decreases with decreasing transition-metal T size,
from 0.252 nm for Pd to 0.237 nm for Co. The short T-Ge bond length
indicates strong hybridization between T-nd and Ge-4p orbitals, with
delocalized, itinerant electron hopping through this channel.

The LDA band-structure calculation for SrT₂Ge₂ (T = Pd and Ni) suggests
higher dispersion energy bands across Fermi energy E_(F) with a
multisheet Fermi surface and low total DOS at E_(F) with partial DOS
contributions from T-3d and Ge-4p. However, a small but nonzero on-site
Coulomb repulsion U (U∼ 0.5 bandwidth W) is probably needed in the LDA +
U calculations for this electron-correlated system to get a more
realistic band structure. The LDA calculation expects superconductivity
in SrNi₂Ge₂,[17] Indeed a superconducting transition temperature T_(c) =
0.92 K was recently observed by our group.[18] The temperature
dependence of electrical resistivity ratio ρ(T)/ρ(1 K) for this new
superconductor SrNi₂Ge₂ is shown in Fig. 4. With a shorter d(Ni-Ge) bond
length of 0.243 nm, a lower T_(c) onset of 0.92 K from electrical
resistivity with T_(c)(zero) of 0.87 K was observed with an electrical
resistivity ratio ρ(300 K)/ρ(1 K) of 5.4. The T² dependence of
resistivity below 30 K indicates that the normal state is close to the
Fermi-liquid regime with weaker electron correlation. The lower
superconducting transition temperature of this electron-overdoped (nd⁸)
compound is probably due to more dispersive 3D-like 3d_(xz, yz)
conduction bands, as compared with the less-electron-doped (3d^(6.1))
22-K superconductor BaFe_(1.8)Co_(0.2)As₂ or the hole-doped (3d^(5.9))
38-K superconductor Ba_(0.6)K_(0.4)Fe₂As₂ with less dispersive 2D-like
3d_(xy) conduction band.[2, 3, 4, 5, 6]

Figure 5 shows the low-temperature heat capacity C(T) of the SrNi₂Ge₂
superconductor. A heat-capacity jump at T_(c) = 0.78 K was observed,
which is slightly lower than T_(c)(zero) = 0.87 K measured by electrical
resistivity. The C/T vs T² plot for zero applied field and B_(a) = 7 T
are shown collectively in the inset. Normal-state heat capacity at B_(a)
= 7 T can be fitted with the formula C_(N)(T) = γT + AT³, with an
electronic γ = 1.55 × 10⁻² J/mol K² and a Debye temperature θ_(D) = 175
K. The superconducting specific-heat jump ΔC/γT_(c) of 1.2 is very close
to the BCS value of 1.43, which suggests a fully opened s-wave-type
superconducting gap for this low-T_(c) superconductor.

Anisotropic superconducting properties are expected for this layer
system. Polycrystalline SrPd₂Ge₂ powder (grain size 1-10 μm) was aligned
at room temperature in an alignment magnetic field of 0.9 T utilizing
anisotropic paramagnetic magnetization due to the T-Ge layer structure.
An easy

Figure 4: (Color online) Temperature dependence of electrical
resistivity ratio ρ(T)/ρ(1 K) of new superconductor SrNi₂Ge₂. Inset
reveals a T_(c) (onset) at 0.92 K.

Figure 5: (Color online) Temperature dependence of molar heat capacity
C(T) for superconductor SrNi₂Ge₂. C/T versus T² plot for B_(a) = 0 and
B_(a) = 7 T are shown in the inset.

Figure 3: (Color online) Variation of bond angle θ(Ge-T-Ge) for squeezed
TGe₄ tetrahedron and bond length d(T-Ge) (inset) for pseudoternary
systems Sr(Pd_(1 − x)_(x)₂Ge₂ (T = Co, Ni, Rh).

Figure 2: (Color online) X-ray powder-diffraction (XPD) patterns for the
tetragonal SrT₂Ge₂ system (T = Co, Ni, Rh, Pd), arranged in increasing
c/a ratio.

magnetization direction along the tetragonal basal plane through
spin-orbital coupling related magnetocrystalline anisotropy was
observed.[20] The x-ray powder-diffraction (XPD) pattern for aligned
powder in epoxy along the basal plane with enhanced (hk0) lines and
along the c axis with enhanced (00l) lines are shown collectively in the
inset of Fig. 6. Alignment was not complete probably due to intermediate
alignment field strength of 0.9 T, insufficient curing time of 10 h, or
simply intrinsic origin. Close to 85

Anisotropic low-field field-cooled (FC) and zero-field-cooled (ZFC)
magnetic susceptibility $\chi_{\rm mol}(T)$ for aligned powder SrPd₂Ge₂
(grain size 1-10 μm) along the tetragonal c axis and basal plane are
shown collectively in Fig. 6. With Pd-Ge bond length d(Pd-Ge) of 0.252
nm for this electron-overdoped compound, superconducting transition
T_(c) onset of 3.12 K was observed, which is slightly higher than the
previously reported 3.04 K for bulk sample[15] and 2.7 K for single
crystal.[19] At 2 K in applied field of 10 G smaller than lower critical
field B_(c1)(2 K) ∼ 100 G,[15] a ZFC anisotropic molar susceptibility
ratio $\chi_{c}({\rm ZFC})/\chi_{\rm basal}({\rm ZFC})=9.5$ cm³
mol⁻¹/5.8 cm³ mol⁻¹∼ 1.6 at Meissner state was observed. A lower
diamagnetic signal above 2.6 K is due to the small grain size where a
10-G field is already penetrated deeply into the grain.

The anisotropic initial diamagnetic magnetization curve and magnetic
hysteresis loop M(B_(a)) at T = 2 K  < T_(c) = 3.12 K for aligned
superconducting powder SrPd₂Ge₂ are shown collectively in Fig. 7. The
peak field penetration into microcrystalline grain center (grain size
1-10 μm) $B_{\rm basal}({\rm peak})$ is 56 G along the tetragonal basal
plane and B_(c)(peak) is 44 G along the c axis. These peak values are
slightly smaller than the average bulk B_(c1)(2 K) ∼ 100 G due to the
lack of grain-boundary pinning for small grain size and dispersed
distribution of aligned microcrystalline in epoxy. The initial
magnetization curve decrease to zero around 1 kG is slightly higher than
the upper critical field B_(c2)(2 K) ∼ 0.9 kG for the bulk sample.[15]
The small hysteresis loop shown in the inset of Fig. 7 reflects the low
flux pinning behavior of the dispersive microcrystalline aligned powder.

Since no T_(c) down to 2 K were observed for less electron-doped
SrCo₂Ge₂ and SrRh₂Ge₂, a systematic study of T_(c) variations near the
Pd-rich region of the pseudoternary Sr(Pd_(1 − x)_(x))₂Ge₂ systems (T =
Co, Ni, and Rh) were performed. Figure 8 shows the T_(c) onset for
SrPd₂Ge₂ and three representative compounds in the Pd-rich region. For
10

Figure 9 shows variations of superconducting transition temperature
T_(c) for all three systems. For the isoelectronic, electron-overdoped
Sr(Pd_(1 − x)Ni_(x))₂Ge₂ system, T_(c) decreases from 3.12 K for
SrPd₂Ge₂ with Pd(4d⁸) to 0.92 K for SrNi₂Ge₂ with Ni(3d⁸). For the less
electron-doped Sr(Pd_(1 − x)Rh_(x))₂Ge₂ system with Rh(4d⁷), T_(c)
decreases to 2.4 K with 25

Figure 6: (Color online) Field-cooled (FC) and zero-field-cooled (ZFC)
anisotropic magnetic susceptibility $\chi_{\rm mol}(T)$ for aligned
superconducting powder SrPd₂Ge₂ (T_(c) = 3.12 K). Inset shows the
x-ray-diffraction patterns of aligned power along tetragonal c axis and
basal plane.

Figure 7: (Color online) Anisotropic initial magnetization curve
M(B_(a)) and magnetic hysteresis loop (inset) at T = 2 K for aligned
powder SrPd₂Ge₂ along both orientations.

bands while weaker T_(c) suppression for Ni(3d⁸) was attributed to the
isoelectronic shift from the 4d to 3d band. The minor suppression in the
latter system can be explained by similar band dispersion and Fermi
surfaces between SrPd₂Ge₂ and SrNi₂Ge₂ compounds as indicated by
band-structure calculations.[17] No superconductivity is expected for
SrRh₂Ge₂ and SrCo₂Ge₂ with lower DOS in d bands due to the down shift of
Fermi energy E_(F) (∼1 eV) by one less electron per transition metal.

Figure 10 presents a variation of T_(c) and bond lengths d(T-Ge) and
d(T-T) of the squeezed TGe₄ tetrahedron in the (T Ge)¹⁻ layer for
pseudoternary Sr(Pd_(1 − x)Ni_(x))₂Ge₂ and Sr(Ni_(1 − x)Co_(x))₂Ge₂
systems. The d(T-T) bond length decreases from 0.31(Pd) to 0.29(Ni) nm,
and enhanced direct hopping in the basal plane thus suppresses the
T_(c).

Compared with a smaller bond angle θ(As-Fe_(1.8)Co_(0.2)-As) of
111.2^(∘) for 22-K superconductor BaFe_(1.8)Co_(0.2)As₂ with an average
number 6.1 of 3d electrons, the greater θ values of the present system
indicates that a more 2D-like d_(xy) band may contribute a higher T_(c)
for this compound.

The symmetry of superconductivity is probably a multiband s-wave
symmetry and the mechanism of superconductivity for this low-T_(c)
system may require structural related anisotropic electron correlation
with phonon mediation.

## IV Conclusion

The ternary and pseudoternary Sr(T_(1 − x)T^(^(′))_(x))₂Ge₂ system (T,
T^(′) = Co, Ni, Rh, or Pd) is an anisotropic tetragonal layer system
where nd orbitals of transition metal T are split by the squeezed TGe₄
tetrahedral crystal field. At the normal-metal state, the system is
weakly electron correlated and close to the Fermi-liquid regime. The
lower T_(c) of the anisotropic electron-overdoped 3.12-K SrPd₂Ge₂ and
0.92-K SrNi₂Ge₂ compounds are the results of close to half filled
dispersive 3D-like nd_(xz, yz) conduction bands. No superconductivity is
expected for SrRh₂Ge₂ and SrCo₂Ge₂ compounds with a lower density of
states in these bands due to one less electron per transition metal.

###### Acknowledgements.

This work was supported by Grants No. NSC98-2112-M-007-013-MY3, No.
NSC99-2811-M-007-095, and No. NSC99-2112-M-003-007 of the National
Science Council of the Republic of China.

## References

* (1) Y. Kamihara, T. Watanabe, M. Hirano, and H. Hosono, J. Am. Chem.
Soc. **130**, 3296 (2008). * (2) M. Rotter, M. Tegel, and D. Johrendt,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **101**, 107006 (2008). * (3) K. Sasmal, B. Lv, B.
Lorenz, A. M. Guloy, F. Chen, Y.-Y. Xue, and C.-W. Chu, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**101**, 107007 (2008). * (4) A. S. Sefat, R. Jin, M. A. McGuire, B. C.
Sales, D. J. Singh, and D. Mandrus, Phys. Rev. Lett. **101**, 117004
(2008). * (5) D. J. Singh, Phys. Rev. B **78**, 094511 (2008). * (6) E.
Akturk and S. Ciraci, Phys. Rev. B **79**, 184523 (2009). * (7) T.-M.
Chuang, M. P. Allan, J. Lee, Y. Xie, N. Ni, S. L. Bud’ko, G. S.
Boebinger, P. C. Canfield, and J. C. Davis, Science **327**, 181
(2010). * (8) N. Ni _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **78**, 014523 (2008). * (9)
H. Hosono, Physica C **469**, 314 (2009). * (10) A. I. Goldman _et al._,
Phys. Rev. B **78**, 100506 (2008). * (11) S.-H. Baek _et al._, Phys.
Rev. B **79**, 052504 (2009). * (12) J.-H. Chu, J. G. Analytis, C.
Kucharczyk, and I. R. Fisher, Phys. Rev. B **79**, 014506 (2009). * (13)
G. Just and P. Paufler, J. Alloys Compd. **232**, 1 (1996). * (14) W.
Dorrscheidt, N. Niess, and H. Schafer, Z. Naturforsch. B **31**, 890
(1976). * (15) H. Fujii and A. Sato, Phys. Rev. B **79**, 224522
(2009). * (16) H. Fujii and A. Sato, J. Alloys Compd. **487**, 198
(2009). * (17) I. R. Shein and A. L. Ivanovskii, Physica B **405**, 3213
(2010). * (18) C. D. Yang, H. C. Hsu, W. Y. Tseng, H. C. Chen, H. C. Ku,
M. N. Ou, Y. Y. Chen, and Y. Y. Hsu, J. Phys.: Conf. Ser. **273**,
012089 (2011). * (19) N. H. Sung, J.-S. Rhyee, and B. K. Cho, Phys. Rev.
B **83**, 094511 (2011). * (20) B. C. Chang, C. H. Hsu, Y. Y. Hsu, Z.
Wei, K. Q. Ruan, X. G. Li, and H. C. Ku, Europhys. Lett. **84**, 67014
(2008).

Figure 9: (Color online) Variations of superconducting transition
temperature T_(c) for the pseudoternary Sr(Pd_(1 − x)T_(x))₂Ge₂ system
(T = Co, Ni, Rh).
