# Multigap nodeless superconductivity in nickel chalcogenide TlNi₂Se₂

X. C. Hong,¹ Z. Zhang,¹ S. Y. Zhou,¹ J. Pan,¹ Y. Xu,¹ Hangdong
Wang,^(2, 3) Qianhui Mao,² Minghu Fang,² J. K. Dong,^(1,) and S. Y.
Li.^(1,)

jkdong@fudan.edu.cn ¹State Key Laboratory of Surface Physics, Department
of Physics, and Laboratory of Advanced Materials, Fudan University,
Shanghai 200433, People’s Republic of China

²Department of Physics, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310027, People’s
Republic of China

³Department of Physics, Hangzhou Normal University, Hangzhou 310036,
People’s Republic of China

⁴Department of Physics, Hangzhou Normal University, Hangzhou 310036,
People’s Republic of China

25 July 2014; revised manuscript received 7 August 2014; published 18
August 2014

###### Abstract

Low-temperature thermal conductivity measurements were performed on
single crystals of TlNi₂Se₂, a nickel chalcogenide heavy-electron
superconductor with T_(c) ≃ 3.7 K. In zero field, the residual
electronic contribution at T → 0 K (κ₀/T) was well separated from the
total thermal conductivity, which is less than 0.45

pacs: 74.70.Xa, 74.25.fc, 74.20.Fg + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL
REVIEW B **90**, 060504(R) (2014)

+ Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL REVIEW B **90**, 060504(R) (2014)
TINi₂Se₂ samples. To reduce the uncertainty associated with the
geometric factor, we normalize the resistivity of sample B to sample A
at T = 290 K. The two resistivity curves are nearly identical after
normalization, as seen in the inset. Later we will use the normalized
geometric factor for sample B. The resistivity decreases monotonically
with lowering the temperature, followed by a sharp superconducting
transition. The T_(c) defined by ρ = 0 is 3.7 K, which is consistent
with the onset of a diamagnetic transition. Fermi-liquid behavior ρ ∼ T²
is observed at low temperature. The fit of ρ(T) data between 4 and 8.5 K
to ρ = ρ₀ + AT² gives the residual resistivity ρ₀ = 0.60μΩ cm for sample
A and ρ₀ = 0.61μΩ cm for sample B. The residual resistivity ratio (RRR)
is about 120, which is much higher than the nickel pnictides BaNi₂As₂
and SrNi₂P₂[13; 16].

Figure 2(a) shows the low-temperature thermal conductivity of TNi₂Se₂
samples A and B at zero field, plotted as κ/T vs T². The measured
thermal conductivity κ can be expressed as κ = κ_(e) + κ_(ph), the sum
of electron contribution κ_(e) and phonon contribution κ_(ph). Due to
their distinct temperature dependence at low temperatures, the two
contributions can be well separated by fitting the data to

κ = aT + bT^(a),
(1)

where aT is the residual linear term of electrons and bT^(a) is the
phonon contribution in the boundary scattering limit. Usually 2 < α ≤ 3,
which depends on the effect of the specular reflection of phonons at the
sample surfaces [21; 22]. For both samples A and B, the fitting
parameter α in zero field is very close to 3, therefore we fix it to 3.
Note that for BaNi₂As₂ and SrNi₂P₂ single crystals, the parameter α is
also 3 [13; 16]. It seems that the effect of specular reflection of
phonons at the surfaces is very weak for NBS single crystals.

In Fig. 2(a), the fittings give κ₀/T ≡ a = 0.18 ± 0.02 mW K⁻² cm⁻¹ and
0.05 ± 0.01 mW K⁻² cm⁻¹ for

Figure 1: (Color online) (a) Low-temperature dc magnetization of a
TINi₂Se₂ single crystal measured with zero-field-cooled (ZFC) and
field-cooled (FC) processes. (b) Low-temperature in-plane resistivity of
a TINi₂Se₂ single crystal (sample A). The solid line is a fit of the
data between 4 and 8.5 K to ρ = ρ₀ + AT². The inset shows the ρ(T)
curves of samples A and B up to room temperature. After normalizing the
value of sample B at 290 K to that of sample A, the two curves are
nearly identical.

Figure 2: (Color online) Low-temperature thermal conductivity of
TINi₂Se₂ single crystals. (a) Sample A and sample B in zero field. (b)
Thermal conductivity of sample A under magnetic fields up to H = 1 T.
Data below H_(c2) = 0.8 T are fitted to κ/T = κ₀/T + bT², as represented
by the solid lines. The dashed line is the normal-state Wiedemann-Franz
law expectation L₀/ρ₀, with L₀ = 2.45 × 10⁻⁸ W Ω K⁻² and ρ₀ = 0.60μΩ cm.

samples A and B, respectively. Comparing with our experimental error
0.005 mW K⁻² cm⁻¹[22], these κ₀/T values are not negligible. However,
they are actually very tiny, if we compare them with the normal-state
Wiedemann-Franz law expectation κ_(N0)/T = L₀/ρ₀ ≈ 40 mW K⁻² cm⁻¹. The
ratio (κ₀/T)/(κ_(N0)/T) of TlNi₂Se₂ is only 0.44

In fact, the finite value of κ₀/T in zero field can be theoretically
estimated for a quasi-two-dimensional d-wave superconductor [26, 27],

$$\frac{\kappa_{0}}{T}\simeq\frac{\hbar}{2\pi}\frac{\gamma_{N}v_{F}^{2}}{\triangle _{0}},$$
(2)

where γ_(N) is the electronic specific-heat coefficient in the normal
state, v_(F) is the Fermi velocity, and △₀ stands for the maximum of the
superconducting gap. ν_(F) = 5.48 × 10⁴ m s⁻¹, γ_(N) = 40 mJ mol⁻¹ K⁻²,
and △₀ = 2.01k_(B)T_(c) can be obtained from a former work [19]. In case
that TlNi₂Se₂ is a quasi-two-dimensional d-wave superconductor, we
estimate κ₀/T ≃ 3.22 mW K⁻² cm⁻¹, which should be ∼8

The field dependence of κ₀/T can provide further information on the
superconducting gap structure [20]. The thermal conductivity under
magnetic fields for sample A is shown in Fig. 2(b). Similar results are
obtained for sample B but not shown here, since the data are noisier at
H > 0.2 T. Upon applying magnetic fields, vortices are gradually
introduced into the sample. The unpaired electrons inside the vortices
contribute to κ₀(H)/T. Although the curves of 0.8 and 1 T are not
smooth, one can still see that κ₀/T roughly meets the Wiedemann-Franz
law expectation L₀/ρ₀ = 40.8 mW K⁻² cm⁻¹. We determine the bulk upper
critical field H_(c2) = 0.8 T, which agrees with the value estimated
from resistivity measurements [19]. The data in different fields below
H_(c2) are also fitted to κ/T = κ₀/T + bT², as represented by the solid
lines in Fig. 2(b).

Normalized κ₀(H)/T of TlNi₂Se₂ as a function of H/H_(c2) is presented in
Fig. 3(a), together with the single band s-wave superconductor
NbSe₂[29], the d-wave cuprate superconductor Tl-2201 [23], and two
nickel pnictide superconductors BaNi₂As₂ and SnNi₂P₂[13, 16]. For the
single band s-wave superconductor Nb, the κ₀(H)/T changes little even up
to 40

Of the above three archetypal examples, the field dependence of κ₀(H)/T
for TlNi₂Se₂ most resembles NbSe₂. Since NBSs also have several bands
across the Fermi level [8, 9, 10, 11], it is natural to explain the
κ₀(H)/T behavior of TlNi₂Se₂ with multiple gaps. As was done in the case
of NbSe₂[29], one can estimate the ratio of the smaller gap to the
larger gap Δ_(s)/Δ_(l) by plotting the ratio of thermal conductivity to
heat capacity ($\kappa_{0}/T)/(C_{\rm res}/T)$ as a function of
H/H_(c2). In the vortex state, residual specific heat is associated with
the unpaired electron DOS, while κ₀/T manifests the tunneling ability of
those unpaired electrons. Thus $(\kappa_{0}/T)/(C_{\rm res}/T)$
represents the degree of delocalization of quasiparticles in the

Figure 3: (Color online) (a) Normalized κ₀/T of TlNi₂Se₂ as a function
of H/H_(c2). For comparison, similar data are shown for the single band
s-wave superconductor Nb [28], the multiband s-wave superconductor
NbSe₂[29], the d-wave superconductor Tl-2201 [23], and two nickel
pnictide superconductors BaNi₂As₂ and SnNi₂P₂[13, 16]. (b) Ratio of
thermal conductivity to heat capacity ($\kappa_{0}/T)/(C_{\rm res}/T)$
in TlNi₂Se₂. The end of the rapid increase regime at H^(*) indicates the
complete suppression of the smaller gap(s).

vortex state [29]. In a simple two-gap model, both Fermi sheets
contribute to the rise of $(\kappa_{0}/T)/(C_{\rm res}/T)$ below a
characteristic field H^(*). In the regime of H^(*) < H < H_(c2), the
smaller gap is completely suppressed and only the Fermi sheet with a
larger gap contributes to the rise of $(\kappa_{0}/T)/(C_{\rm res}/T)$.

In Fig. 3(b), we plot the ratio $(\kappa_{0}/T)/(C_{\rm res}/T)$ as a
function of H/H_(c2). The residual specific heat $C_{\rm res}(H)/T$ is
adopted from Ref. [19]. Two distinct regimes can be resolved: After a
rapid initial increase, $(\kappa_{0}/T)/(C_{\rm res}/T)$ reaches a weak
H-dependent regime. The end of the rapid increase atH^(*) ≃ 0.36H_(c2)
indicates the complete suppression of the smaller gap. Considering that
the upper critical field is related to the superconducting gap by
H_(c2) ∝ △²/v_(F)², the characteristic field H^(*) allows us to estimate
the gap ratio Δ_(s)/△_(l) ≃ 0.6. In Ref. [19], the specific-heat data
can be best fitted by a two-gap BCS model with △_(s)/△_(l) ≃ 0.42[19],
which is qualitatively consistent with our thermal conductivity
analysis.

We then compare the κ₀(H)/T behavior of TlNi₂Se₂ to those of BaNi₂As₂
and SrNi₂P₂[13, 16]. From Fig. 3(a), the three κ₀(H)/T curves show a
common $\bf S$ shape (concave in low fields and convex in high fields).
Previously, this $\bf S$-shaped curve of κ₀(H)/T was interpreted as the
consequence of H_(c2) distribution in the BaNi₂As₂ and SrNi₂P₂ crystals
due to the sample quality [13, 16], while for our TlNi₂Se₂ single
crystals, the sharp diamagnetic transition shown in Fig. 1(a) suggests
that the spread of H_(c2) should be very narrow, despite the possible
existence of a tiny impure phase. The RRR of TlNi₂Se₂ is also much
higher than those of BaNi₂As₂ and SrNi₂P₂, pointing to a cleaner sample.
For TlNi₂Se₂, the Ginzberg-Landau coherence length ξ = 20.3 nm is
calculated from the equation

$$\xi=\left[\frac{\Phi_{0}}{2\pi\,H_{c2}(0)}\right]^{\frac{1}{2}},$$
(3)

where Φ₀ = 2.07 × 10⁻⁷ Oe cm² is the flux quantum. According to the
relationship

$$\frac{\kappa}{T}=\frac{1}{3}\gamma\nu_{F}l_{e},$$
(4)

the electron mean free path l_(e) = 677 nm is estimated. The ratio
l_(e)/ξ = 33.3 (≫1) places our TlNi₂Se₂ single crystal in the clean
limit. Therefore the $\bf S$-shaped κ₀(H)/T curve of TlNi₂Se₂ should not
be explained by bad sample quality. Since all three compounds have the
same crystal structure and similar electronic structure [8], their
common $\bf S$-shaped field dependence of κ₀(H)/T may have the same
origin–the multiple nodeless gaps.

We note that the normalized κ₀(H)/T has been numerically simulated for a
two-band s-wave state with unequal gap sizes, which successfully
explained the experimental data of Ba(Fe_(1 − x)Co_(x))₂As₂ with
different Co doping by systematically varying the ratio △_(s)/△_(l)[31].
However, this kind of calculation cannot reproduce the pronounced
$\bf S$-shaped κ₀(H)/T curve in Fig. 3(a), since the simulation is based
on an assumption that each band possesses equal weighting of
quasiparticle DOS [31]. To get the $\bf S$-shaped κ₀(H)/T curve, one may
need to assume that those bands with a smaller gap possess more
quasiparticle DOS than those bands with a larger gap. Further numerical
simulations are needed to reproduce this common feature observed in
NBSs.

In summary, we have measured the thermal conductivity of TlNi₂Se₂ single
crystals down to 50 mK. The relatively tiny κ₀/T and weak field
dependence of κ₀(H)/T in low fields suggest a nodeless superconducting
gap. The κ₀(H)/T curve shows an $\bf S$ shape, which was previously also
observed in BaNi₂As₂ and SrNi₂P₂. This common feature of nickel-based
superconductors is explained by multiple nodeless superconducting gaps.
A characteristic field H^(*) ≃ 0.36H_(c2) was identified from an
apparent slope change in $(\kappa_{0}/T)/(C_{\rm res}/T)$, which gives
the ratio △_(s)/△_(l) ≃ 0.6 in TlNi₂Se₂.

This work is supported by the Natural Science Foundation of China
(Grants No. 91021016, No. 91221303, No. 11374261, and No. 11204059), the
Ministry of Science and Technology of China (National Basic Research
Program No. 2012CB821402, No. 2012CB821404, and No. 2011CBA00103), and
the Program for Professor of Special Appointment (Eastern Scholar) at
Shanghai Institutions of Higher Learning.

## References

* (1) D. C. Johnston, Adv. Phys. **59**, 803 (2010). * (2) J. Paglione
and R. L. Greene, Nat. Phys. **6**, 645 (2010). * (3) G. R. Stewart,
Rev. Mod. Phys. **83**, 1589 (2011). * (4) T. Watanabe, H. Yanagi, T.
Kamiya, Y. Kamihara, H. Hiramatsu, M. Hirano, and H. Hosono, Inorg.
Chem. **46**, 7719 (2007). * (5) F. Ronning, N. Kurita, E. D. Bauer, B.
L. Scott, T. Park, T. Klimczuk, R. Movshovich, and J. D. Thompson, J.
Phys.: Condens. Matter **20**, 342203 (2008). * (6) Z. Li, G. F. Chen,
J. Dong, G. Li, W. Z. Hu, D. Wu, S. K. Su, P. Zheng, T. Xiang, N. L.
Wang, and J. L. Luo, Phys. Rev. B **78**, 060504(R) (2008). * (7) E. D.
Bauer, F. Ronning, B. L. Scott, and J. D. Thompson, Phys. Rev. B **78**,
172504 (2008). * (8) F. Ronning, E. D. Bauer, T. Park, N. Kurita, T.
Klimczuk, R. Movshovich, A. S. Sefat, D. Mandrus, and J. D. Thompson,
Physica C **469**, 396 (2009). * (9) A. Subedi and D. J. Singh, Phys.
Rev. B **78**, 132511 (2008). * (10) B. Zhou, M. Xu, Y. Zhang, G. Xu, C.
He, L. X. Yang, F. Chen, B. P. Xie, X. Y. Cui, M. Arita, K. Shimada, H.
Namatame, M. Taniguchi, X. Dai, and D. L. Feng, Phys. Rev. B **83**,
035110 (2011). * (11) T. Terashima, M. Kimata, H. Satsukawa, A. Harada,
K. Hazama, M. Imai, S. Uji, H. Kito, A. Iyo, H. Eisaki, and H. Harima,
J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **78**, 033706 (2009). * (12) P. J. Hirschfeld, M. M.
Korshunov, and I. I. Mazin, Rep. Prog. Phys. **74**, 124508 (2011). *
(13) N. Kurita, F. Ronning, Y. Tokiwa, E. D. Bauer, A. Subedi, D. J.
Singh, J. D. Thompson, and R. Movshovich, Phys. Rev. Lett. **102**,
147004 (2009). * (14) K. Kudo, M. Takasuga, Y. Okamoto, Z. Hiroi, and M.
Nohara, Phys. Rev. Lett. **109**, 097002 (2012). * (15) K. Hashimoto, M.
Yamashita, S. Kasahara, Y. Senshu, N. Nakata, S. Tonegawa, K. Ikada, A.
Serafin, A. Carrington, T. Terashima, H. Ikeda, T. Shibauchi, and Y.
Matsuda, Phys. Rev. B **81**, 220501(R) (2010).

* [16] N. Kurita, F. Ronning, C. F. Miclea, E. D. Bauer, K. Gofryk, J.
D. Thompson, and R. Movshovich, Phys. Rev. B **83**, 094527 (2011). *
[17] J. R. Neilson, A. Llobet, A. V. Stier, L. Wu, J. J. Wen, J. Tao, Y.
Zhu, Z. B. Tesanovic, N. P. Armitage, and T. M. McQueen, Phys. Rev. B
**86**, 054512 (2012). * [18] J. R. Neilson, T. M. McQueen, A. Llobet,
J. J. Wen, and M. R. Suchomel, Phys. Rev. B **87**, 045124 (2013). *
[19] H. D. Wang, C. H. Dong, Q. H. Mao, R. Khan, X. Zhou, C. X. Li, B.
Chen, J. H. Yang, Q. P. Su, and M. H. Fang, Phys. Rev. Lett. **111**,
207001 (2013). * [20] H. Shakeripour, C. Petrovic, and L. Taillefer, New
J. Phys. **11**, 055065 (2009). * [21] M. Sutherland, D. G. Hawthorn, R.
W. Hill, F. Ronning, S. Wakimoto, H. Zhang, C. Proust, E. Boaknin, C.
Lupien, L. Taillefer, R. X. Liang, D. A. Bonn, W. N. Hardy, R. Gagnon,
N. E. Hussey, T. Kimura, M. Nohara, and H. Takagi, Phys. Rev. B **67**,
174520 (2003). * [22] S. Y. Li, J.-B. Bonnemaison, A. Payeur, P.
Fournier, C. H. Wang, X. H. Chen, and L. Taillefer, Phys. Rev. B **77**,
134501 (2008). * [23] C. Proust, E. Boaknin, R. W. Hill, L. Taillefer,
and A. P. Mackenzie, Phys. Rev. Lett. **89**, 147003 (2002). * [24] M.
Suzuki, M. A. Tanatar, N. Kikugawa, Z. Q. Mao, Y. Maeno, and T.
Ishiguro, Phys. Rev. Lett. **88**, 227004 (2002). * [25] R. W. Hill, S.
Y. Li, M. B. Maple, and L. Taillefer, Phys. Rev. Lett. **101**, 237005
(2008). * [26] M. J. Graf, S. K. Yip, J. A. Sauls, and D. Rainer, Phys.
Rev. B **53**, 15147 (1996). * [27] A. C. Durst and P. A. Lee, Phys.
Rev. B **62**, 1270 (2000). * [28] J. Lowell and J. B. Sousa, J. Low
Temp. Phys. **3**, 65 (1970). * [29] E. Boaknin, M. A. Tanatar, J.
Paglione, D. Hawthorn, F. Ronning, R. W. Hill, M. Sutherland, L.
Taillefer, J. Sonier, S. M. Hayden, and J. W. Brill, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**90**, 117003 (2003). * [30] G. E. Volovik, JETP Lett. **58**, 469
(1993). * [31] Y. Bang, Phys. Rev. Lett. **104**, 217001 (2010).
