# Effects of La substitution on the superconducting state of CeCoIn₅

C. Petrovic, S. L. Bud’ko, V. G. Kogan, and P. C. Canfield

Ames Laboratory and Department of Physics and Astronomy, Iowa State
University, Ames, Iowa 50011

###### Abstract

We report the effects of La substitution on the superconducting state of
the heavy-fermion superconductor CeCoIn₅, as seen in transport and
magnetization measurements. As opposed to the case of conventional
superconductors, pair breaking by nonmagnetic La results in the
depression of T_(c) and indicates a strong gap anisotropy. The upper
critical field H_(c2) values decrease with increased La concentration,
but the critical field anisotropy, γ^(′)=H_(c2)^(*)/H_(c2)^(*), does not
change in Ce_(1 − x)La_(x)CoIn₅ (x = 0−0.15). The electronic system is
in the clean limit for all values of x.

pacs: 054534 + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL REVIEW B **66**, 054534
(2002)

## I Introduction

The study of heavy fermion superconductors over the past two decades has
shown an abundance of new phenomena that are associated with Cooper pair
formation.1 In particular, the competition between magnetic and
superconducting interactions among electrons near the Fermi surface has
given rise to unconventional superconductivity2,3 and raised
speculations that the spin pairing might be mediated by magnetic
interaction.4 Research in the field has been associated with
difficulties in sample preparation, sample to sample variation,
experimental conditions and ultimately in the number of examples where
relevant physical phenomena can be observed in a clean form. The
recently discovered CeMIn₅ family (M = Ir, Rh, Co) of heavy-fermion
superconductors encapsulates many important aspects of physics in this
class of materials. CeRhIn₅ (Ref. 5) superconducts under applied
pressures above 17 kbar with T_(c) around 2 K whereas CeIrIn₅ (Ref. 6)
and CeCoIn₅ (Ref. 7) are ambient pressure superconductors. CeCoIn₅
offers a clean example of ambient pressure heavy-fermion
superconductivity with a remarkably high T_(c) = 2.3 K. The intriguing
properties of CeCoIn₅ led to the speculation that it may exhibit d-wave
superconductivity,8-10 and the Fulde-Ferrel-Larkin-Ovchinnikov state in
high magnetic fields.11 In order to have more insight into the nature of
CeCoIn₅ we perturbed its superconducting state by substituting La onto
the Ce site. For the purpose of comparing the influence of magnetic and
nonmagnetic pair breaking on T_(c) suppression, we also substituted 5

## II Experiment

Single crystals of Ce_(1 − x)La_(x)CoIn₅ were grown by the self-flux
method in a manner previously described.7 Purity of starting elements
(in atomic percent) was: Ce: 99.86, La: 99.8, Nd: 96.9, Co: 99.99, In:
99.999. Crystals grew as thin plates with the c axis perpendicular to
the plate. Removal of excess In from the surface was performed by
etching in concentrated HCl for several hours followed by a thorough
rinsing in ethanol. All samples obtained with this process showed no
signs of free In contamination. Powder x-ray patterns showed that the
samples crystallized in HoCoGa₅ structure without any additional peaks
introduced by La alloying. In addition, magnetization measurements
provided a more sensitive test of the possible presence of magnetically
ordered second phases. Both as grown and etched samples showed no sign
of an antiferromagnetic transition of CeIn₃. Electrical contacts were
made with Epotek-H20E silver epoxy. In-plane resistivity was measured in
Quantum Design MPMS and PPMS measurement systems from 0.35 to 300 K and
in fields up to 90 kOe applied parallel and perpendicular to the c axis.
There is an uncertainty in the nominal resistivity values associated
with sample geometry due to the uneven surfaces of etched samples. We
measured several samples for each concentration in order to reduce the
measurement error, which allowed us to estimate uncertainties in nominal
values as well. The dimensions of the samples were measured by a
high-precision optical microscope with 10 μm resolution and average
values are presented. Randomly chosen samples within each batch had no
difference in their R(T) curves. Magnetization measurements were
performed in MPMS-7 Quantum Design magnetometer in the magnetic field of
10 kOe, applied parallel and perpendicular to c axis.

## III Results

The results of powder x-ray diffraction measurement taken at room
temperature are summarized in Table 1 and shown in Fig. 1, together with
the unit-cell volume of LaCoIn₅. As expected, the La-doped samples have
a larger unit-cell volume. The volume increase in the concentration
range x = 0−0.175 is consistent with the expansion of the unit cell as
La substitutes Ce in accordance with Vegard’s law.

Figure 2 shows the magnetic susceptibility for Ce_(0.95)Nd_(0.05)CoIn₅,
Ce_(0.85)La_(0.15)CoIn₅, and CeCoIn₅, taken in the applied field of 10
kOe. In the whole temperature range above T_(c), the substitution of
magnetic Ce³⁺ by nonmagnetic La³⁺ reduces the susceptibility values in
the La-doped sample when compared with undoped CeCoIn₅. Comparison of
high-temperature moments through Curie-Weiss analysis of the
polycrystalline susceptibility average at high temperatures shows that
approximately 14

Temperature-dependent electrical resistivities normalized to their value
at 300 K for Ce1-xLa,CoIn5 and Ce0.95Nd0.05CoIn5 are presented in Fig.
3(a). There are several key features to notice. Resistivities of all
samples are weakly temperature dependent at high temperatures, and they
pass through a maximum as the temperature is decreased. This behavior is
traditionally interpreted as a cross-over from incoherent Kondo
scattering to coherent Bloch states of heavy electrons in the Kondo
lattice. In the case of CeCoIn5 this drop, at least partially, could be
attributed to a depopulation of crystalline electric field levels.13 We
observe a decrease of T_(max) for higher La concentrations [Fig. 3(a)
inset]. At low temperatures, there is a clear suppression of T_(c) as
more Ce ions are replaced by La [Fig. 3(b)]. The increase of the normal
state residual resistivity ρ₀ is probably due to a disorder that
contributes to an increased conduction electron scattering. On the other
hand, the resistive transition width sharpens with La alloying. It is
interesting to note that Ce1-xLa,CoIn5 is not in the well-defined Fermi
liquid regime above T_(c). The ρ(T) curves above T_(c) do not show signs
of T² dependence, as it has been reported for CeCuSi2.14 Depression of
T_(c) in CeCoIn5 seems to scale with the ρ₀ values for both magnetic and
nonmagnetic dopants, as seen by a comparison of the ρ(T) data of
Ce0.95Nd0.05CoIn5 with Ce0.98La0.02CoIn5.

Figure 4 shows the anisotropic upper critical field for Ce1-xLa,CoIn5,
normalized to the transition temperature in zero field for each value of
x (values for x = 0 were taken from previous report, Ref. [15]). The
H_(c2) data were determined as a midpoint between onset of
superconductivity and zero resistivity from ρ(T) curves at a constant
field and ρ(H) curves at a constant temperature. Adding La impurities
results in a depression of H_(c2). The anisotropy γ

Figure 2: Magnetic susceptibility of Ce0.8SLa0.15CoIn5,
Ce0.95Nd0.05CoIn5, and CeCoIn5. Low-temperature susceptibility (inset)
shows pronounced Curie tail with 5

=H_(c2)^(σ)/H_(c2)^(c), however, remains at the same value of γ≈ 2
(inset in Fig. 4). Uncertainty in our estimate of γ decreases for
higher-field data, away from H = 0 transition (T/T_(c) ≈ 1).

Assuming that the Fermi surface properties of the doped material do not
change substantially in the dilute La limit,[16] it is reasonable to
assume an inverse proportionality between ρ and l, and therefore values
of l₀ could be estimated from ρ₀ for the whole doping series (I₀ = A/ρ₀)
using the value of constant A from reported l₀ and ρ₀ values for a pure
material.[17] We obtain l₀ ≈ 540$\AA$ for CeCoIn₅ without La impurities.
Figure 5 shows the ratio of mean free path l₀ to in-plane
superconducting coherence length ξ [ξ²(T) = Φ₀/2πH_(c2)(T)] for
Ce_(1 − x)La_(x)CoIn₅ obtained at T = T_(c)/2. In the whole doping range
the electronic system is in the clean limit which could explain a nearly
constant value of γ = H_(c2)^(σ)/H_(c2)^(c).

A comparison of the effects of La substitution on T_(c) in CeCoIn₅ and
CeCu_(2.2)Si₂ is shown in Fig. 6.[18] Doping results in a depression of
T_(c) in both cases but CeCoIn₅ is more robust to pair breaking arising
from La impurities. The initial rate of T_(c) suppression is smaller
than the rate seen in CeCu_(2.2)Si₂: [(0.056T_(c))/(1

## IV Discussion and conclusions

The slope of H_(c2) vs T curve at T_(c) can be used to estimate
zero-temperature orbital critical field H_(c2o)(0) using the

Figure 4: Anisotropy in the upper critical field H_(c2) for
Ce_(1 − x)La_(x)CoIn₅ (x = 0 –0.15). Inset shows value of γ =
H_(c2)^(σ)/H_(c2)^(c) vs T_(c)/T_(c) (H = 0) for various La
concentrations: x = 0.02 (circles), x = 0.05 (up triangles), x = 0.075
(down triangles), x = 0.15 (diamonds).

Figure 5: Ratio of mean free path (l) to coherence length (ξ) for
Ce_(1 − x)La_(x)CoIn₅. Electronic system is in the clean limit already
at T = T_(c)/2 for La concentrations x = 0 –0.15.

Figure 3: (a) Electrical resistivity ρ normalized to its value at 300 K
vs temperature for Ce_(1 − x)La_(x)CoIn₅ for x = 0, 0.1 and 0.175.
T_(max) is shifted to lower temperatures with increased La substitution
(inset). (b) Low-temperature resistivity shows depression of T_(c) and
increase in ρ₀.

weak-coupling formula for conventional superconductors in
Werthamer-Helfand-Hohenberg (WHH) model: H_(c2o)(0) ∼
0.7H_(c2)^(′)(T_(c))T_(c). [20] Table I shows estimates of H_(c2)^(′)
near T_(c) for doped samples, together with the previously reported
value for x = 0 for both crystalline directions. [21] All investigated
samples have high initial slopes, as expected in the case of
heavy-fermion superconductors. [22, 23] Values of H_(c2o)(0) decrease
with introduction of La impurities (Table I). The paramagnetic limiting
field H_(p)(0) = $\Delta_{0}/\mu_{B}\sqrt{2}$ (where Δ₀ is the energy
gap at T = 0 and μ_(B) is the Bohr magneton) for pure CeCoIn₅ (T_(c) =
2.3 K) is well below the orbital critical field H_(c2o)(0) for either
s-wave (Δ₀ = 3.52k_(B)T_(c)), [24] or d-wave pairing state (Δ₀ =
2.14k_(B)T_(c)), [25] and our results indicate that this unusual
situation is valid for the investigated La-doping range. We note that
the experimental values of the upper critical field for
Ce_(1 → ⊥)La_(x)CoIn₅ (x = 0 - 0.15) samples are most likely below the
values obtained by applying the WHH model (Table I), probably due to the
polarization of the magnetic sublattice due to an enhanced internal
field along both crystalline axes.

It has recently been reported that T_(c) in CeCoIn₅ increases under
applied pressure. [19] Negative chemical pressure should cause some
decrease in T_(c). In the lack of better approximation, we take bulk
modulus of CeCoIn₅ to be the same as the one for CeIn₃ (650 kbar), [26]
and we calculate approximate chemical pressure (P_(chemical)) for each
La concentration using −V_(o)∂P/∂V ≈ 650 kbar. The results are shown in
Table I. The depression of T_(c) occurs at the rate of ∂T_(c)/∂P ≈ −
0.43 K/kbar–a slope that is an order of magnitude larger than reported
for the increase of T_(c) under hydrostatic pressure. An order of
magnitude difference from pure pressure effect on T_(c) is likely to
exceed error in the estimation of bulk modulus, and therefore points to
the conclusion that the pair-breaking mechanisms that enter through
disorder due to La alloying and increased scattering of Cooper pairs are
dominant in CeCoIn₅. In contrast to the conventional superconductors
where nonmagnetic impurities have small effect on T_(c), Cooper pairs
formed in CeCoIn₅ are rather sensitive to La doping: 2

The T_(c) suppression induced by the nonmagnetic La substitution in
Ce_(1 → ⊥)La_(x)CoIn₅ is reminiscent of the pair-breaking effect by
magnetic impurities. [27] Although various factors may suppress T_(c)
(an anisotropic scattering, for example), [28] we focus here on the
scenario of CeCoIn₅ having an anisotropic gap Δ(k⃗_(F)) at the Fermi
surface. This scenario is quite likely to occur given the unconventional
nature in many heavy-fermion materials.

It is known [29] that if Δ depends on the position at the Fermi surface,
the critical temperature is suppressed by nonmagnetic scattering
according to

$$\ln\frac{T_{c0}}{T_{c}}=\alpha\left[\psi\left(\frac{1+\mu}{2}\right)-\psi \left(\frac{1}{2}\right)\right],\quad\mu=\frac{\hbar}{2\,\pi k_{B}\tau T_{c}}.$$
(1)

Here T_(c0) is the critical temperature of the material in the absence
of all scattering, τ is the scattering time by nonmagnetic impurities,
and α = 1 − ⟨Δ⟩²/⟨Δ²⟩ characterizes the gap anisotropy, ⟨⋯⟩ stands for
averaging over Fermi surface, and ψ is the digamma function. For a weak
gap anisotropy, this result is due to Hohenberg, [29] see also later
publications. [30, 31] It can be shown that in fact Eq. (1) holds for an
arbitrary gap anisotropy. [32] For isotropic Δ, α = 0, and we come to
Anderson’s theorem: T_(c) = T_(c0). For pure d-wave order parameter,
⟨Δ⟩ = 0, and Eq. (1) describes the d-pair breaking by nonmagnetic
scattering (which differs from the Abrikosov-Gor’kov result only by a
factor of 2 in the definition of the parameter
μ_(m) = ℏ/πk_(B)T_(c)τ_(m)).

To analyze the T_(c)(x) data shown in Fig. 6, one has to relate x to the
scattering time τ, a nontrivial connection. We avoid this difficulty by
assuming that the residual resistivity ρ₀ is proportional to 1/τ.
Further, we exclude parameter T_(c0) from Eq. (1) by writing it for two
values of x and subtracting the results,

$$\ln\frac{T_{2}}{T_{1}}=\alpha\left[\psi\left(\frac{1+\mu_{1}}{2}\right)-\psi \left(\frac{1+\mu_{2}}{2}\right)\right],\quad\mu_{1,2}=\beta\frac{\rho_{1,2}}{ T_{1,2}},$$
(2)

where T_(1, 2) = T_(c)(x_(1, 2)) and β is a constant to be determined.
Writing this equation for two different pairs x_(1, 2) one can determine
the unknown α and β. This procedure yields values scattered around
α = 0.5 and β = 0.2 K/μΩ cm.

Hence, we find α = ⟨Δ⟩²/⟨Δ²⟩ ≈ 0.5 which implies a strongly anisotropic
gap. Knowing the value of β we can estimate the scattering time using
measured resistivities; for x = 0 we obtain
τ = ℏ/2πk_(B)βρ₀ ≈ 1.3 × 10⁻¹² s. With the electronic-specific-heat
coefficient [17]γ = 290 mJ/mol K² we roughly estimate the Fermi velocity
$v_{F}=\pi k_{B}/e\sqrt{\gamma\tau\rho_{0}}\approx 2\times 10^{6}$ cm/s.
This would correspond to the mean-free path l ≈ 260 A, a value smaller
than expected but within a factor of 2 of our determination of mean-free
path which is reasonable given the assumptions of average Fermi velocity
and isotropic scattering.

In summary, diamagnetic pair-breaking effect in CeCoIn₅ is consistent
with the picture of a strongly anisotropic order parameter. Anisotropy
in the upper critical field γ = H_(c2)^(′′)/H_(c2)^(′) does not change
for x = (0 − 0.15) in Ce_(1 → ⊥)La_(x)CoIn₅, indicating an electronic
system in the clean limit.

## Acknowledgments

We thank Joerg Schmalian and Doug Finnemore for useful discussions and
Hal Sailsbury for help with the optical microscope. This work was
carried out at Ames Laboratory, which is operated for the U.S.
Department of Energy by Iowa State University under Contract No.
W-7405-82. This work was supported by the Director for Energy Research,
Office of Basic Energy Sciences of the U.S. Department of Energy.

## References

* [1] Z. Fisk, J.L. Sarrao, J.L. Smith, and J.D. Thompson, Proc. Natl.
Acad. Sci. U.S.A. **92**, 6663 (1995). * [2] G. Bruls, D. Weber, B.
Wolf, P. Thalmeir, B. Luthi, A. de Visser, and A. Menovsky, Phys. Rev.
Lett. **65**, 2294 (1990). * [3] B.S. Shivaram, J.J. Gannon, and D.G.
Hinks, Phys. Rev. Lett. **63**, 1723 (1989). * [4] K. Miyake, S.
Schmitt-Rink, and C.M. Varma, Phys. Rev. B **34**, 6554 (1986). * [5] H.
Hegger, C. Petrovic, E.G. Moshopolou, M.F. Hundley, J.L. Sarrao, Z.
Fisk, and J.D. Thompson, Phys. Rev. Lett. **84**, 4986 (2000). * [6] C.
Petrovic, R. Movshovich, M. Jaime, P.G. Pagliuso, M.F. Hundley, J.L.
Sarrao, Z. Fisk, and J.D. Thompson, Europhys. Lett. **53**, 354
(2001). * [7] C. Petrovic, P.G. Pagliuso, M.F. Hundley, R. Movshovich,
J.L. Sarrao, J.D. Thompson, Z. Fisk, and P. Monthoux, J. Phys.: Condens.
Matter **13**, L337 (2001). * [8] Y. Kohori, Y. Yamato, Y. Iwamoto, T.
Kohara, E.D. Bauer, M.B. Maple, and J.L. Sarrao, Phys. Rev. B **64**,
134526 (2001). * [9] N.J. Curro, B. Simovic, P.C. Hammel, P.G. Pagliuso,
J.L. Sarrao, J.D. Thompson, and G.B. Martins, Phys. Rev. B **64**,
180514 (2001). * [10] K. Izawa, H. Yamaguchi, Y. Matsuda, H. Shishido,
R. Settai, and Y. Onuki, Phys. Rev. Lett. **87**, 057002 (2001). * [11]
T.P. Murphy, Donovan Hall, E.C. Palm, S.W. Tozer, C. Petrovic, Z. Fisk,
R.G. Goodrich, P.G. Pagliuso, J.L. Sarrao, and J.D. Thompson, Phys. Rev.
B **65**, 100514(R) (2002). * [12] J.M. Lawrence, T. Graf, M.F. Hundley,
D. Mandrus, J.D. Thompson, A. Lacerda, M.S. Torikachvili, J.L. Sarrao,
and Z. Fisk, Phys. Rev. B **53**, 12 559 (1996). * [13] P.G. Pagliuso,
N.J. Curro, N.O. Moreno, M.F. Hundley, J.D. Thompson, J.L. Sarrao, and
Z. Fisk, Physica B (to be published). * [14] I. Sheikin, D. Braithwaite,
J-P. Brison, W. Assmus, and J. Floquet, J. Low Temp. Phys. **118**, 113
(2000). * [15] T. Muramatsu, N. Tateiwa, T. Kobayashi, K. Shimizu, K.
Amaya, D. Aoki, H. Shishido, Y. Haga, and Y. Onuki, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn.
**70**, 3362 (2001). * [16] C.S. Jee, B. Andraka, J.S. Kim, and G.R.
Stewart, Phys. Rev. B **43**, 2656 (1991). * [17] R. Movshovich, M.
Jaime, J.D. Thompson, C. Petrovic, Z. Fisk, P. Pagliuso, and J.L.
Sarrao, Phys. Rev. Lett. **86**, 5152 (2001). * [18] U. Ahlheim, M.
Winkelmann, P. van Aken, C.D. Bredl, F. Steglich, and G.R. Stewart, J.
Magn. Magn. Mater. **76&77**, 520 (1988). * [19] M. Nicklas, R. Borth,
E. Lengyel, P.G. Pagliuso, J.L. Sarrao, V.A. Sidorov, G. Sparn, F.
Steglich, and J.D. Thompson, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter **13**, L905
(2001). * [20] N.R. Werthamer, E. Helfand, and P.C. Hohenberg, Phys.
Rev. **147**, 295 (1966). * [21] S. Ikeda, H. Shishido, M. Nakashima, R.
Settai, D. Aoki, Y. Haga, H. Harima, Y. Aoki, T. Namiki, H. Sato, and Y.
Onuki, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **70**, 2248 (2001). * [22] T.P. Orlando, E.J.
McNiff, S. Foner, and M.R. Beasley, Phys. Rev. B **19**, 4545 (1979). *
[23] U. Rauchschwalbe, W. Lieke, C.D. Bredl, F. Steglich, J. Aarts, K.M.
Martini, and A.C. Mota, Phys. Rev. Lett. **49**, 1448 (1982). * [24]
A.M. Clogston, Phys. Rev. Lett. **9**, 261 (1962). * [25] M.J. Graf,
S.-K. Yip, J.A. Sauls, and D. Rainer, Phys. Rev. B **53**, 15 147
(1996). * [26] G. Oomi, T. Kagayama, and J. Sakurai, J. Mater. Process.
Technol. **85**, 220 (1999). * [27] A.A. Abrikosov and L.P. Gorkov, Zh.
Eksp. Teor. Fiz. **39**, 1781 (1960) [Sov. Phys. JETP **12**, 1243
(1961)]. * [28] J. Schmalian (private communication). * [29] P.
Hohenberg, Zh. Eksp. Teor. Phys. **45**, 1208 (1963) [Sov. Phys. JETP
**18**, 834 (1964)]. * [30] D. Markowitz and L.P. Kadanoff, Phys. Rev.
**131**, 563 (1963). * [31] A.I. Posazhennikova and M.B. Sadovski,
Pis’ma Zh. Eksp. Teor. Fiz. **63**, 347 (1996) [JETP Lett. **63**, 358
(1996)]. * [32] V. G. Kogan, Phys. Rev. B **66**, 020509(R) (2002).
