# Crystal structure and superconductivity of TiZr up to 57 GPa

I. O. Bashkin

V. K. Fedotov

M. V. Nefedova

M. V. Tissen

E. G. Ponyatovsky

A. Schiwek

W. B. Holzapfel

Fachbereich 6-Physik, Universitat Paderborn, D-33095 Paderborn, Germany

13 March 2003; published 1 August 2003

###### Abstract

The crystal structure of the equiatomic TiZr alloy is studied in the
pressure range up to 57 GPa using the diamond anvils and synchrotron
radiation. It is found that this alloy follows the α → ω → β transition
series earlier observed on Zr and Hf. Superconductivity measurements on
the same alloy to 47 GPa show that the transition to the bcc β phase is
connected with an increase in the superconducting transition temperature
to 15 K. The pressure dependence of the atomic volume is fitted to an
equation of state. Low values of the pressure derivative of the bulk
modulus as well as the increase in the superconducting transition
temperature are discussed in terms of a pressure-induced s − d electron
transfer.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.68.054401 PACS number(s): 74.62.Fj, 61.50.Ks,
61.66.Dk, 64.30.+t

## I Introduction

The interest in the high-pressure behavior of the group IV metals was
revived about 12 years ago by the discovery of the hexagonal ω to the
bcc β phase transitions in Zr and Hf.[1, 2, 3, 4, 5] These observations
presented a remarkable experimental support to the theoretical ideas
based on the electronic band-structure calculations for the transition
metals and the calculated dependence of the electronic properties on
pressure or the atomic volume.[6, 7, 8, 9] The most important result of
these calculations is the observation that the relatively narrow d-band
moves with respect to the bottom of the broad sp-band when the atomic
volume is varied.[6, 7] This shift of the d-band results in a change of
the d-band occupancy under pressure and provides the main contribution
to the pressure dependence of the electronic properties of the metals
(see review Ref. [6]). The total band-energy calculations indicate also
that the structural stability is strongly correlated with the d-band
occupancy (Refs. [7, 8, 9], and references therein). The calculations
gradually reproduced the correct structural sequence in the Periodic
Table for all nonmagnetic metals at atmospheric pressure,[7, 8, 9] and
the structural sequences were presented for many group I-III metals
under pressure.[7, 8] The high-pressure stability of the β phase in Zr
and Hf has been modeled theoretically[10] parallel to the experimental
observations, and the whole α → ω → β transition series starting with
the hcp α phase was reproduced in further theoretical studies.[11, 12,
13]

For Zr at 300 K, the α − ω equilibrium pressure is 2.2 GPa,[14] and the
ω − β transition occurs at 33± 2 GPa.[1, 2, 3] The equilibrium pressures
for the α − ω − β structural sequence observed in Hf are about 38 and 71
GPa, respectively.[5] Measurements of the superconducting transition
temperature, T_(c), in Zr under pressure show its increase by about 5 K
at the ω − β transition.[4, 15, 16] Original speculations on the nature
of the transition[1] relate the d-band occupancy critical for the
structural change with the pressure-induced s  − d electron transfer and
with the lower partial volume of the d-electrons. It was also
emphasized[3] that the atomic volumes and the T_(c) values are nearly
the same for β-Zr above the structural transition and for Nb at normal
pressure therefore it was assumed that the d-band occupancy is the same
in β-Zr and in Nb under appropriate conditions. In other words, β-Zr
becomes a group V element from the point of view of its structure and
properties dependent on the d-band occupancy. Titanium shows a different
behavior at very high pressures. Although the α − ω equilibrium pressure
is also low, 2.0 GPa at 300 K,[14]ω-Ti does not undergo a transition to
the β phase up to 216 GPa.[17, 18] Instead, two orthorhombic Ti phases
were found with the ω − γ transition pressure of 116 GPa in Ref. [19] or
128 GPa in Refs. [17, 18] and the γ − δ transition pressure of 140
GPa.[17, 18] The situation for Ti is complicated for the total energy
calculations as well. The calculations predict the same α − ω − β
structural sequence in Ti with the ω − β transition around 100 GPa
therefore the orthorhombic γ and δ phases are discussed as intermediate
and metastable at room temperature.[13, 20, 21]

The analogy between Zr and the group V metals is fraught with
interesting consequences for the Zr-based alloys because alloying is a
well-known means for varying the electron concentration.[6, 22, 23]
Ti-Zr alloys are of a particular interest in this case. The T − P phase
diagrams of Ti and Zr are very similar up to 10 GPa.[24] Both metals
undergo the α − β transition at atmospheric pressure upon heating above
1155 and 1136 K, respectively, and the α − ω transition on compression.
The α − ω − β triple points are located at 913 K and 8.0 GPa for Ti
(Ref. [25]) and at 973 K and 5.5 GPa for Zr.[26] The ω − β transition
lines have small positive slopes near the triple points.[24] Ti and Zr
are completely soluble in their α and β phases at atmospheric
pressure[27] as well as in their ω phase.[28, 29] The α − β transition
temperature has a minimum at 852 K at ambient pressure for the
equiatomic TiZr alloy, and the parameters of the α − ω − β triple point,
733 K and 4.9 GPa, are also lower in this case than in the pure
metals.[28] The α − ω transition occurs in Ti-Zr alloys around 10 GPa at
300 K.[29, 30] The superconducting transition temperatures of the
α − Ti₂$\!{\it{Zr}}_{1-x}$ alloys at atmospheric pressure, T_(c)(x), are
low and reach a maximum of just 1.7 K at x = 0.5.[31]

The analogy between Nb and β-Zr has been extended more recently to
considerations on the behavior of the β-phase Ti-Zr alloys under high
pressure, which should have much in common with the Ti-group V metal
alloys, particularly, Ti-Nb at normal pressure.[30] The T_(c) measure
ments on the Ti_(x)Zr_(1 − x) alloys with x≤ 0.5 showed discontinuities
in the T_(c)(P) curves around 10 GPa and above 30 GPa, which was
attributed to the structural transitions. The isobaric T_(c)(x) values
taken at 46 GPa increased to 15 K as the Ti content increased to x =
0.5, [30] which is rather similar to the behavior of the Ti−Nb alloys.
[31] In order to complete the analogy, the present work deals with
structural properties of the equiatomic TiZr alloy under pressures up to
57 GPa. X-ray diffraction is used thereby to confirm the α→ω→β
structural sequence, which perfectly explains then the high-pressure
superconducting behavior of this alloy.

## II Experiment

The TiZr alloy was prepared from the metallic elements with total
impurity contents less than 0.02 and 0.04 at.

Energy dispersive x-ray diffraction (EDXD) experiments were performed on
the F3 beamline at the HASYLAB (DESY, Hamburg). [32] Diamond-anvil cells
[33, 34] with flats of 0.5 mm or 0.3 mm diameter were used to generate
high pressures. The samples were placed into holes in the Inconel
gaskets of 0.25 or 0.15 mm, respectively, together with a few ruby chips
and with white mineral oil as pressure transmitting medium. Pressure was
measured with the ruby luminescence technique [35] on the basis of the
nonlinear ruby scale. [36] The diffraction spectra were collected with a
Ge detector at a Bragg angle of θ≈ 5.11^(∘) in typically 15 min. Two
series of experiments were performed on the TiZr alloy at room
temperature. The first series was a compression/decompression cycle to
38.3 GPa using the anvils with 0.5 mm flats, and the second series was a
compression run to 56.9 GPa.

The superconductivity measurements used a different diamond-anvil cell
made of a non-magnetic alloy with diamond flats of 0.5 mm diameter. [30]
The pressure-transmitting medium was the 4:1 methanol−ethanol mixture.
The superconducting transitions were recorded as jumps in the thermal
dependence of the magnetic susceptibility, χ(T), measured on heating.
(Cu−Fe)−Cu thermocouples were used for the temperature measurements with
an accuracy of ± 0.2 K.

## III Results

The α−ω−β structural sequence includes three well-known structures that
give distinctly different EDX spectra as illustrated in Figs. 1−3. Only
the α phase is observed on increasing pressure up to 10.3 GPa (Fig. 1).
The α phase still predominates in the EDX spectra at 12.2 GPa, but the
onset of the α−ω transition is noticeable at this pressure by small
distortions of the strong α-phase reflections. The ω phase dominates in
the diffraction pattern taken at 15.5 GPa and persists then up to about
54 GPa. A typical EDX spectrum of ω-TiZr (at 39.1 GPa) is shown in Fig.
2. In the first pressure series ending at 38.3 GPa, the ω-phase was then
maintained on decompression down to normal conditions.

Above 45 GPa in the second experiment, the relative intensities in the
diffraction patterns start to change, and the pattern observed at the
highest pressure of 56.9 GPa corresponds to pure β phase with the
lattice parameter of 309.8 pm, as shown in Fig. 3. The comparison of the
bar diagrams of the β and ω phases in Fig. 3 illustrates that all
reflections of the β phase overlap with lines from the ω phase. This
overlap results from a close relation between the ω and β structures. In
fact, the ω phase is often considered as a distortion of the β phase,
the central atoms of each bcc cell

Figure 2: Room-temperature EDXD spectrum for TiZr at 28.7 GPa. Miller
indices are given for the ω phase. Other notations are the same as in
Fig. 1.

Figure 1: Room-temperature EDXD spectra for TiZr at 10.3 GPa (bottom)
and 12.1 GPa (top). Experimental data are plotted as points, and the
computer-simulated patterns are represented by solid lines. Miller
indices are given for the α phase at 10.3 GPa, the Inconel reflections
are marked without indexing. The upper axis gives the relation between
the energy scale and the interplanar spacings.

being shifted by 1/6 along the body diagonal of this cell and the shifts
in the neighboring cells being in opposite directions. Therefore the
amount of the ω phase with respect to the β phase is estimated from the
relative intensity of a prominent (001)ω peak with respect to the
summary intensity, I_(S), of the (101)ω + (110)ω + (001)β peak. The
pressure dependence of this relative intensity, I(001)ω/I_(S), in Fig. 4
illustrates the evolution of the ω − β transition. Obviously, the ω − β
transition begins above 40 GPa and is completed around the final point
of the present experimental region. The 50

The present structural data allow now for a detailed interpretation of
the superconducting behavior reported recently³⁰ for Ti−Zr alloys under
pressure. Figure 5 shows the pressure dependence of the superconducting
transition temperature of the present TiZr alloy to 47 GPa. Several
experimental isosars of the magnetic susceptibility, χ_(P)(T), are
represented in the inset. The steps in the χ(T) curves are due to the
superconducting transitions in the alloy. The T_(c) values were
determined from each χ(T) curve as intersection points between the
steepest tangent to the curve and the linear extension of the
high-temperature section of the curve, as illustrated with arrows in
Fig. 5.

Three distinctly different sections are seen in the T_(c)(P) curve in
Fig. 5. In the pressure range 0−9.4 GPa, T_(c) increases from 1.8 to 3.9
K. A small decrease in T_(c) around 10 GPa is clearly related to the
α − ω transition in the alloy. This value for the transition pressure
allows very well with the previous data²⁹ where partial α − ω
transitions were observed in Ti_(x)Zr_(1 − x) alloys with x = 0.74,
0.66, and 0.56 which had been treated under quasihydrostatic pressures
of about 9 GPa at room temperature. Above 11 GPa, the T_(c) values
increase with an average slope of dT_(c)/dP≈ 0.11 K/GPa up to 36 GPa
where the steps in χ(T) become less distinct (see the inset). This
distortion of the superconducting anomaly finally changes into the
second step in the χ(T) curves. The occurrence of two χ(T) anomalies
indicates that the ω − β transition proceeds through a two-phase state
rather than through a gradual change of the central-atom displacements.
In other words, the ω − β transition proceeds directly as a first-order
phase transition without any possible intermediate low-symmetry phase.
The nucleation of the new superconducting high-pressure phase results in
a distortion of the χ(T) anomaly, and the occurrence of the distinct
second step in χ(T) at 47 GPa indicates that the amount of the β phase
in the sample becomes here comparable to the amount of the ω phase. This
correlates well with the EDX data that are indicative of the 10−20

Figure 4: Effect of pressure on the relative intensity of the (001)ω
reflection with respect to the total intensity of the
(101)ω+(110)ω + (001)β line (squares) and the estimated variation of the
relative amount of the β phase (diamonds) in TiZr at the phase
transition. The lines are guides to the eyes.

Figure 5: Effect of pressure on the superconducting transition
temperature of TiZr. Representative isobars for the magnetic
susceptibility measured on heating, χ(T), are shown in the inset. Arrows
in the inset mark the T_(c) values.

Figure 3: Room temperature EDXD spectrum for TiZr at P= 56.9 GPa. Miller
indices are given for the β phase. The calculated bar diagrams for
ω-TiZr and for Inconel are presented without indexing. Other notations
are the same as in Fig. 1.

whose T_(c) gradually increased to 17.2 K upon compression to 120
GPa.[57]

Comparing the experimental data on the structural and superconducting
behavior, one can conclude that the TiZr alloy undergoes the α-ω
transition on increasing pressure at P = 11.0 ± 1.5 GPa, and the ω − β
transition is extended on increasing pressure over a wide interval from
about 43 to 57 GPa.

Further evaluation of the experimental EDXD spectra was based on a
Rietveld-type simulation. A multiphase diffraction pattern including the
appropriate TiZr phases and Inconel was generated for each EDXD spectrum
and fitted to the spectrum with respect to the positions of the
diffraction peaks. A detailed refinement including the peak intensities
was not attempted for various experimental reasons, but primarily
because the small number of grains in the samples could not produce an
ideal powder pattern in EDXD. The quality of the fit is illustrated in
Figs. 1-3, where the experimental data are represented with points, the
solid lines are the simulated diffraction patterns, and the calculated
peak positions are shown with bars. Figure 6 presents the pressure
dependence of the corresponding lattice parameters a and c for the α and
ω phases. The ratios of the lattice parameters of the ω phase,
c/a = 0.618 ± 0.002, and of the α phase, c/a = 1.581 ± 0.005, are the
same within the experimental accuracy for all points in Fig. 6 and agree
very well with the data for atmospheric pressure, c/a = 0.617 and 1.586,
respectively.[28] This constancy of c/a is similar to the situation in
α- and ω-Zr.[1] The amount of the β phase in the region of the ω − β
transition estimated using this data treatment is compared with the
decreasing intensity of the (001)ω reflection in Fig. 4.

Figure 7 shows the effect of pressure on the average atomic volume,
V(P). Solid lines in Fig. 7 represent fits of the V(P) data for the α
and ω phases by the use of an equation of state (EOS) in the form of an
adapted polynomial expansion previously labeled AP2,[38]

P = 3 ⋅ K₀ ⋅ x⁻⁵ ⋅ (1 − x) ⋅ (1 + c₂x(1 − x)) ⋅ e^(c₀(1 − x)).

Here x = (V/V₀)^(1/3), V₀ is the average atomic volume, and K₀ is the
isothermal bulk modulus, both at ambient pressure. Model constant
$c_{0}\!=\!-\!\ln(3\cdot K_{0}/P_{\rm FG_{0}})$ compares K₀ with the
pressure of a Fermi gas, $P_{\rm FG_{0}}\!=\!a_{\rm FG}(Z/V_{0})^{5/3}$,
for the average electron density, Z/V₀, where Z stands for the average
number of electrons per atom and $a_{\rm FG}\!=\!23.37\cdot 10^{12}$
GPa⋅mp⁵ is a universal constant. For regular solids c₂ is a small
correction related to K₀^(′) = 3 + (2/3)(c₀ + c₂). This EOS is favored
here because it includes the correct asymptotic behavior under very
strong compression. A detailed discussion of the advantages of the AP2
form has been given elsewhere.[38]

The average atomic volumes of the α- and ω-TiZr phases at atmospheric
pressure have been determined previously:[28]V_(0α) = 20.539 ⋅ 10⁶ pm³
and V_(0α) = 20.231 ⋅ 10⁶ pm³. Values for K₀ and K₀^(′) from the present
AP2 fitting are listed in Table I. For the present moderate ranges in
pressure, the choice of the EOS form does not affect noticeably the
values of K₀ and K₀^(′), which allows comparing the present data with
previous values for pure Ti and Zr metals although different EOS forms
had been used in these data evaluations. A remarkable feature of all
these evaluations are very low values of the pressure derivative of the
bulk modulus, K₀^(′), for all the phases involved.

The volume decrease at the α − ω transition in the TiZr alloy at 11 GPa
is found to be ΔV = 0.44 ⋅ 10⁶ pm³/atom or ΔV/V_(0α) = 2.1

Figure 6: Effect of pressure on the TiZr lattice parameters. Data from
the first experiment are plotted as solid (compression) and open
(decompression) circles, diamonds are for the second experiment. Solid
lines are guides to the eye. The data at ambient pressure are taken from
Ref. [28].

Figure 7: Effect of pressure on the atomic volumes of the α, ω, and β
phases of TiZr. Solid lines represent the fitted EOS for the α and ω
phases. The experimental data for the ω phase are given by solid circles
for compression and open circles for decompression in the first series
and by diamonds for the second series. The α phase is represented by
downward triangles in the first series and by upward triangles in the
second series; squares are for the β phase in the second series. The
data at ambient pressure are taken from Ref. [28].

volume decrease at the ω − β transition is very small compared to the
values reported for pure Zr and pure Hf, as shown in Table 2.

## IV Discussion

The strongly reduced value of ΔV/V for the ω − β transition in TiZr with
respect to pure Zr is a remarkable feature. This implies that further
increase in the Ti content can result in the opposite sign of the volume
effect. In other words, one expects that the ω − β transition pressure
rapidly increases with increasing Ti content, and this trend gives also
a thermodynamic reason for the observation of a different transition,
ω − γ, with ΔV/V =  − 1.6%[17, 18, 19] in pure titanium.

Another remarkable feature is presented as very low values for the
pressure derivative of the bulk modulus, K₀^(′), for all phases of the
group IV metals in Table 1 (with the exception of the value for α-Ti
which seems doubtful). This observation was made earlier [39] and
related there to the pressure-induced s → d electron transfer at the
beginning of the transition metal series compared to the middle of the
transition metal series where K₀^(′) ≈ 5. The data in Table 1 indicate
therefore that the s → d electron transfer in the group IV metals is not
only responsible for the structural transitions, but also for the
anomalies in the EOS shown by the K₀^(′) values. The change in the
d-band occupancy at the structural transitions should therefore be
small, much less than one electron per atom, explaining also the
relatively small values for the volume decrease at these phase
transitions. There are some theoretical estimates (e.g., Ref. [8]) that
the bcc structure becomes stable in the early transition metals when the
total number of the valence electrons per atom, z, becomes larger than
4.2, or the number of the d-electrons becomes N_(d)  > 2.2. These
theoretical numbers correlate with the experimental observation that the
bcc solid solutions are stable in many group IV−V metal alloys at normal
pressure when the concentration of the group V metal becomes larger than
about 25

Superconducting transition temperatures as well as many other electronic
properties and their systematics in the Periodic Table are commonly
discussed in the framework of the empirical rigid band models related to
the Matthias rule. [22, 32, 31] The basic idea is that the metallic
properties depend on the electronic density of the states at the Fermi
level, N_(F), and its dependence on the total concentration of the
valence electrons, z, with the assumption that the N_(F)(z) curve is the
same for all metals with the same [22, 31] or even different [23]
crystal structures in each metal series of the Periodic Table. The
experimental and theoretical high-pressure data presently available show
deviations from this simple rule. Theoretical determinations of the
electronic density-of-states (DOS) spectra for three Zr phases at
different pressures [11] indicate that the relative positions of the s-
and d-bands and the shapes of the DOS curves are pressure-dependent. The
total number of the valence electrons cannot change at the phase
transitions in the group IV metals and alloys, but T_(c) can increase by
an order of magnitude in the experimental pressure range. There is a
strong concentration dependence of T_(c) in the β-Ti₂Zr_(1 − x) alloys
at a constant pressure [30] as in many group IV−V metal alloys, but z
has the same value for any concentration in the Ti−Zr alloys.
Furthermore, the T_(c) pressure dependence, dT_(c)/dP, above the ω − β
transition is also concentration dependent. [30] These observations are
not consistent with the Matthias rule but can be readily understood if
one admits that the electronic and structural properties of the
transition metals are primarily dependent on the number of d-electrons,
N_(d), and not so closely related to the total number of valence
electrons, z.

## V Conclusions

The present structural study on the equiatomic TiZr alloy under high
pressure confirms the expected α → ω − β structural sequence with
average forward transition pressures of about 11 and 52 GPa,
respectively. The volume decrease at the ω − β transition in TiZr is
small compared to this value for Zr, which relates well to the
observation that this transi

  Transition    Metal    ΔV/V (%)    P_(w) (GPa)    Ref.
  ------------ ------- ------------ ------------- ---------
                 Ti     1.4 to 1.7       2.0         24
  α − ω          Zr        2.3           2.2         24
                 Hf        0.54          38           5
  α → ω          Ti        1.9            9          19
                TiZr       2.1         11± 1.5     present
  ω − β          Zr        1.6           30           1
                 Hf        2.1           71           5
  ω − β          Zr        1.8           33           3
                TiZr       0.3        43 to 57     present
  ω − γ          Ti        1.6           116         19
  ω − γ          Ti        1.6           128        17,18
  γ → δ          Ti        1.4           140        17,18

Table 2: Volume decrease and transition pressures, P_(w), for the group
IV metals together with the present data for TiZr. Arrows represent
values for the forward transitions only.

            V₀ (10⁶ pm³)   K₀ (GPa)   K₀^(′)    Ref.
  -------- -------------- ---------- -------- ---------
  α-Ti         17.735        102       9.1       19
  α-TiZr       20.539       148(3)    3.8(2)   Present
  ω-Ti         17.37         142       2.3       19
  ω-Ti         17.37        123.1      3.2      17,18
  ω-TiZr       20.231       146(3)    1.7(2)   Present
  ω-Zr           ⋯           104       2.1        1
  ω-Zr          22.7         121       1.7        3
  β-Zr          18.0         201       0.8        3
  γ-Ti         17.05         152       2.0       19

Table 1: Atomic volumes, isothermal bulk modulus, K₀, and pressure
derivatives, K₀^(′), for the α and ω phases of TiZr and the
corresponding values for elemental Ti and Zr. The numbers in parentheses
represent standard deviations of the last digit from the fits only. The
additional uncertainties for the K₀^(′) values due to uncertainties in
the ruby scale are probably 0.3.

tion may occur in pure Ti only at much higher pressures or not at all.
The EOS for TiZr is characterized by a low value for the pressure
derivative of the bulk modulus, K₀^(′) . This softness in the equation
of state is typical for a pressure-induced s-d electron transfer. The
transition to the bcc β-TiZr phase is connected with an increase in the
superconducting transition temperature from 6 to 15 K. The variations in
the superconducting properties are well understood on the basis of
pressure-dependent shifts of the Fermi level within the d-band.

###### Acknowledgements.

X-ray studies were performed under Project No. II-96-76. The Russian
group was supported by the RFBR Grant No. 00-02-17562 and by the RAS
program "Physics and chemistry of the extreme states of the matter."

## References

* [1] H. Xia, S.J. Duclos, A.L. Ruoff, and Y.K. Vohra, Phys. Rev. Lett.
**64**, 204 (1990). * [2] H. Xia, A.L. Ruoff, and Y.K. Vohra, Phys. Rev.
B **44**, 10 374 (1991). * [3] Y. Akahama, M. Kobayashi, and H.
Kawamura, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **60**, 3211 (1991). * [4] Y. Akahama, M.
Kobayashi, and H. Kawamura, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **59**, 3843 (1990). *
[5] H. Xia, G. Parthasarathy, H. Luo, Y.K. Vohra, and A.L. Ruoff, Phys.
Rev. B **42**, 6736 (1990). * [6] I.V. Svechkarev and A.S. Panfilov,
Phys. Status Solidi B **63**, 11 (1974). * [7] J.C. Duthe and D.G.
Pettifor, Phys. Rev. Lett. **38**, 564 (1977). * [8] H.L. Skriver, Phys.
Rev. B **31**, 1909 (1985). * [9] M. Sigalas, D.A. Papaconstantopoulos,
and N.C. Bacalis, Phys. Rev. B **45**, 5777 (1992). * [10] J.S.
Gyanchandani, S.C. Gupta, S.K. Sikka, and R. Chidambaram, J. Phys.:
Condens. Matter **2**, 6457 (1990). * [11] R. Ahuja, J.M. Wills, B.
Johansson, and O. Eriksson, Phys. Rev. B **48**, 16 269 (1993). * [12]
S.A. Ostanin and V.Yu. Trubitsin, Phys. Rev. B **57**, 13 485 (1998). *
[13] K.D. Joshi, G. Jyoti, S.C. Gupta, and S.K. Sikka, J. Phys.:
Condens. Matter **14**, 10921 (2002). * [14] V.A. Zilbershtein, N.P.
Chistotina, A.A. Zharov, N.S. Grishina, and E.I. Estrin, Fiz. Met.
Metalloved. **39**, 445 (1975). * [15] Y. Akahama, M. Kobayashi, and H.
Kawamura, High Press. Res. **10**, 711 (1992). * [16] I.O. Bashkin, M.V.
Nefedova, and V.G. Tissen, Phys. Solid State **42**, 11 (2000). * [17]
Y. Akahama, H. Kawamura, and T. LeBihan, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter
**14**, 10583 (2002). * [18] Y. Akahama, H. Kawamura, and T. Le Bihan,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **87**, 275503 (2001). * [19] Y.K. Vohra and P.T.
Spencer, Phys. Rev. Lett. **86**, 3068 (2001). * [20] J. S.
Gyanchandani, S. K. Sikka, and R. Chidambaram, in _Proceedings of the
International Conference on High Pressure Science and Technology,
Bangalore, 1991_ (Oxford, New Delhi, 1992), p. 331. * [21] K.D. Joshi,
G. Jyoti, S.C. Gupta, and S.K. Sikka, Phys. Rev. B **65**, 052106
(2002). * [22] G. Gladstone, M. A. Jensen, and J. R. Schrieffer,
_Superconductivity in the Transition Metals: Theory and Experiment, in
Superconductivity_, edited by R. D. Parks (Marcel Dekker, New York,
1969). * [23] A.R. Miedema, J. Phys. F: Met. Phys. **4**, 120 (1974). *
[24] E. Yu. Tonkov, _High Pressure Phase Transformations_ (Gordon and
Breach, Philadelphia, 1992) Vol. 2, pp. 682, 691. * [25] F. P. Bundy, in
_New Materials and Methods for Investigation of Metals and Alloys_
(Metallurgia, Moscow, 1966), p. 230; G. E. Research Laboratory Report
No. 63-RL-3481C, October 1963, USA. * [26] A. Jayaraman, W. Klement, and
G.C. Kennedy, Phys. Rev. **131**, 644 (1963). * [27] M. Hansen and K.
Anderko, _Constitution of Binary Alloys_ (McGraw-Hill, New York, 1958),
Vol. 2; F. A. Shunk, _Constitution of Binary Alloys, Second Supplement_
(McGraw-Hill, New York, 1967). * [28] I.O. Bashkin, A.Yu. Pagnuev, A.F.
Gurov, V.K. Fedotov, G.E. Abrosimova, and E.G. Ponyatovskii, Phys. Solid
State **42**, 170 (2000). * [29] V.V. Aksenenkov, V.D. Blank, B.A.
Kulnitskii, and E.I. Estrin, Fiz. Met. Metalloved. **69**, 154 (1990). *
[30] I.O. Bashkin, V.G. Tissen, M.V. Nefedova, A. Schiwek, W.B.
Holzapfel, and E.G. Ponyatovsky, JETP Lett. **73**, 75 (2001). * [31] E.
M. Savitskii, Yu. V. Efimov, N. D. Kozlova, B. P. Mihailov, L. F.
Myzenkova, and E. D. Doronkin, _Superconducting Materials_ (Metallurgia,
Moscow, 1976). * [32] J.W. Otto, Nucl. Instrum. Methods Phys. Res. A
**384**, 552 (1996). * [33] K. Syassen and W.B. Holzapfel, Europhys.
Conf. Abstr. **1A**, 75 (1975). * [34] W. B. Holzapfel, in _High
Pressure Chemistry_, edited by H. Kelm (Reidel, Boston, 1978), p. 177. *
[35] R.A. Forman, G.J. Piermarini, J.D. Barnett, and S. Block, Science
**176**, 284 (1972); G.J. Piermarini, S. Block, and J.D. Barnett, J.
Appl. Phys. **44**, 5377 (1973). * [36] H.K. Mao, P.M. Bell, J.W.
Shaner, and D.J. Steinberg, J. Appl. Phys. **49**, 3276 (1978). * [37]
M. Ishizuka, M. Iketani, and S. Endo, Phys. Rev. B **61**, R3823
(2000). * [38] W.B. Holzapfel, Z. Kristallogr. **216**, 473 (2001). *
[39] Y.K. Vohra, S.K. Sikka, and W.B. Holzapfel, J. Phys. F: Met. Phys.
**13**, L107 (1983).
