# NMR and NQR studies of the heavy fermion superconductors Ce_T_In₅ (_T_
= Co and Ir)

Y. Kohori, Y. Yamato, Y. Iwamoto, and T. Kohara

Department of Material Science, Faculty of Science, Himeji Institute of
Technology, Kamigori-cho Ako-gun, Hyogo 678-1297, Japan

E. D. Bauer and M. B. Maple

Department of Physics and Institute for Pure and Applied Physical
Sciences, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, California
92093

J. L. Sarrao

Condensed Matter and Thermal Physics, Los Alamos National Laboratory,
Los Alamos, New Mexico 87545 (Received 8 November 2000; revised
manuscript received 20 February 2001; published 13 September 2001)

###### Abstract

We have carried out ¹¹⁵In and ⁵⁹Co nuclear quadrupole resonance and
nuclear magnetic resonance measurements on CeCoIn₅ and CeIrIn₅. The
temperature T dependence of the nuclear spin-lattice relaxation rate
1/_T_1 of ¹¹⁵In in the normal state indicates that CeCoIn₅ is located
just at an antiferromagnetic instability, and CeIrIn₅ is in the nearly
antiferromagnetic region. In the superconducting state, 1/_T_1 has no
Hebel-Slichter coherence peak just below _T__(C) and a power-law T
dependence (close to T3) at very low temperatures, which indicates the
existence of line nodes in the superconducting energy gap. The ¹¹⁵In
(Ce-In plane) Knight shift in CeCoIn₅ decreases for both parallel and
perpendicular directions to the tetragonal c axis in the superconducting
state, which shows that the spin susceptibility decreases in all
directions. These results indicate that CeCoIn₅ and CeIrIn₅ exhibit
non-s-wave even parity (probably _d_-wave) superconductivity.

pacs: 74.20.Mn, 71.27.+a, 76.60.Gv + Footnote †: preprint: PHYSICAL
REVIEW B, VOLUME 64, 134526

## I Introduction

The occurrence of superconductivity in strongly correlated _f_-electron
systems has intrigued researchers for more than two decades. In these
systems, the hybridization between the conduction electrons and the
localized f electrons results in the formation of heavy quasiparticles
and leads to ferromagnetic (_F_) or antiferromagnetic (AF) spin
fluctuations.[1] Since heavy fermion superconductors are located near
the F or AF region, the existence of spin fluctuations has led to the
prediction that superconductivity with non-_s_-wave symmetry, mediated
by magnetic electron-electron coupling, is realized in heavy fermion
systems.[2] More than five years ago, CeCu₂Si₂ (Ref. [3]) and CeCu₂Ge₂
(at high pressure)[4] were the only superconducting members of the
4_f_-heavy fermion class. Since 1995, however, CePd₂Si₂,[5, 6]
CeRh₂Si₂,[7] CeIn₃,[8] and CeNi₂Ge₂ (Ref. [9]) have been shown to become
superconducting under pressure (_P_), which all have very low
superconducting transition temperatures (_T__(C)) at high pressure.
Owing to the severe experimental conditions, little knowledge of the
superconductivity was obtained in these systems. Recently, another
pressure induced superconductor CeRhIn₅, which has the tetragonal
HoCoGa₅ structure, has been discovered.[10] The ground state is AF for P
<16 kbar, and superconductivity occurs at _T__(C) = 2.2 K for P >16
kbar. The ¹¹⁵In nuclear quadrupole resonance[11] and the neutron
diffraction[12] measurements determined the spiral spin structure of
CeRhIn₅. Following the discovery of CeRhIn₅, two new isostructural
superconductors CeIrIn₅ (Ref. [13]) and CeCoIn₅,[14] were observed at
ambient pressure. The respective values of _T__(C) of the two compounds
are 0.4 and 2.3 K. Superconductivity occurs at relatively high
temperatures for the CeTm₅ (_T_ = Co, Rh, and Ir) compounds,[15] which
makes them very suitable for microscopic measurements.

In CeIrIn₅ and CeCoIn₅, the electrical resistivity passes through a
maximum around 50 K that typically is attributed to the cross-over from
incoherent scattering of conduction electron at high T to the
development of correlated bands at low T. Below about 20 K, the
resistivity of both systems does not have a quadratic T dependence. The
resistivity varies as ρ = ρ₀ + _aT_^(n) with n = 1.3 in CeIrIn₅ and n =
1 in CeCoIn₅, which are not described by the Landau Fermi liquid
picture. The electronic specific heat coefficients g at very low T in
these systems are large, 750 mJ/mole K² for CeIrIn₅ and 350 mJ/mole K²
for CeCoIn₅. In the stoichiometric compound, deviation from the Landau
Fermi liquid picture, the "non-Fermi-liquid state," occurs when the
system is located in the vicinity of a quantum critical point (around
magnetic instabilities) and thermal and transport properties are
affected by strong spin fluctuations.

Nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) and nuclear quadrupole resonance (NQR)
are powerful tools for studying magnetism and superconductivity, i.e.,
the spectrum and nuclear spin lattice relaxation rate 1/_T_1 provide
valuable information about the magnetic structure, the spin fluctuations
and, also, the symmetry of the superconductivity. The results of such a
study of CeRhIn₅ have already been published and reveal anisotropic
superconductivity with line nodes that occurs near the AF state.[16] In
order to understand the interplay of spin fluctuations and
superconductivity, NQR and NMR measurements on CeIrIn₅ and CeCoIn₅ have
been performed. In CeTm₅, there are two crystallographically
non-equivalent In sites. One site is located in the Ce-In plane. This In
site is surrounded by Ce ions and has a symmetry which is invariant
under fourfold rotations about the c axis (hereafter referred to as site
A in this paper). The other site is surrounded by Ce and Co (or Ir) ions
and has a lower crystal symmetry (referred to as site _B_). Due to the
noncubic environment, one expects a large electric field gradient for
both In sites, which is favorable for observing distinct NQR lines. In
this paper, we report ¹¹⁵In and ⁵⁹Co NMR/NQR studies in CeIrIn₅ and
CeCoIn₅ at temperatures down to 50 mK.

## II Experimental

The ¹¹⁵In NQR measurements were performed using a phase-coherent pulsed
NMR/NQR spectrometer in the resonance frequency range 5-90MHz.
Field-swept ¹¹⁵In and ⁵⁹Co NMR spectra were obtained using a
superconducting magnet with a maximum magnetic field of 50 kOe. Single
crystals of CeCoIn₅ and CeIrIn₅ were grown from an In flux and crushed
into powders for NQR and NMR measurements. The NMR measurements were
carried out on aligned powders, in which the grains were aligned with
the c axis parallel to magnetic field _H_ext. Two pieces of CeCoIn₅
crystals which were not crushed, were used to study the directional
variation of K with respect to _H_ext. The ⁵⁹Co Knight shift ⁵⁹K was
determined with respect to the ⁵⁹Co resonance in K₃Co(CN)₆, and the
¹¹⁵In Knight shift ¹¹⁵K with respect to the ¹¹⁵In resonance in InCl₃.
The value of T1 was obtained by the recovery of the nuclear
magnetization _m_(_t_) after a saturation pulse. The measurements above
1.3 K were performed using a ⁴He cryostat, and below 1.3 K with a ³He
cryostat and a ³He-⁴He dilution refrigerator.

## III Results

### ¹¹⁵In NQR spectra

Figures 1 and 2 show the ¹¹⁵In NQR spectra obtained in CeCoIn₅ and
CeIrIn₅ at T = 4.2 K. The respective spectra consist of 8 narrow
resonance lines, which could be assigned as the signals arising from two
In sites. The electric quadrupole Hamiltonian is written as

$${\cal H}_{Q} = \frac{e^{2}qQ}{4I(2I-1)}\bigg{[}3\,I_{z}^{2} - I(I+1) + \frac{\eta}{2}(I^{+2} + I^{-2})\bigg{]}.$$

Here Q represents the nuclear quadrupole moment, the electric-field
gradients are contained in _eq_ and the asymmetric parameter e, defined
as _e_q_ = _VZZ_ and e = (_VXX_ - _VYY_)/_VZZ_. By convention, _VZZ_ has
the largest magnitude, and _VX_ and _VYY_ are chosen so that 0 <= e
<= 1. For I = 9/2 (¹¹⁵In), the four "allowed" transitions would be
observed when e is small. The resonace frequencies were estimated by
diagonalizing the electric quadrupole Hamiltonian. In the case of e = 0,
a set of lines would be observed at the resonance frequencies of e0 = 3
e ^2 q _Q_/_2I_(2I-1) h, 2 _vQ_, 3 _vQ_ and 4 _vQ_, where h represents
Planck constant. Indeed, a set of lines observed at 8.17, 16.34, 24.51,
and 32.68 MHz in CeCoIn₅ are equally separated, which represents e = 0.
Similar signals are also observed in CeIrIn₅ at resonance frequencies of
6.07, 12.13, 18.20, and 24.27 MHz. These signals arise from the site A
(In atoms in the Ce-In plane) which has an axially symmetric electric
field gradient. From the crystal structure, it is evident that the
direction of the electric field gradient _VZ_Z is parallel to the
tetragonal c axis. The values of the electric field gradient were
evaluated as e2 q _Q_/_h = 196 MHz for CeCoIn₅ and 146 MHz for CeIrIn₅,
respectively. Not only the four signals from site A, but also other
signals are observed at 28.65, 28.98, 45.08, 61.21 MHz in CeCoIn₅ and
33.70, 38.35, 52.19, 71.43 MHz in CeIrIn₅. These signals arise from the
site B, in which the ¹¹⁵In nuclei are surrounded by Ce and Co (or Ir)
ions. The corresponding electric field gradients are evaluated as e2 q
_Q_/_h = 372 MHz with e = 0.39 for CeCoIn₅, and e2 q _Q_/_h = 436 MHz
with e = 0.46 for CeIrIn₅. In either case, the associated "forbidden"
transition (|_Dm_| > 1), which exists in the case of finite e, was not
visible. Since the symmetry of the electric field gradient in this site
is lower than uniaxial, the principal axes of the tensor could not be
determined only from NQR. Any

Figure 2: ¹¹⁵In NQR spectra obtained in CeIrIn₅.

Figure 1: ¹¹⁵In NQR spectra obtained in CeCoIn₅. The closed circles
represent the signals from site A, and open circles represent those from
site B. The two lines from site B are nearly coincident at 29 MHz, which
can be seen clearly in the inset.

change of the spectra were not observed down to 50 mK in both compounds.
It is noteworthy that the whole spectra could be explained by only the
electric quadrupole interaction, which shows both compounds are in the
paramagnetic state.

### ¹¹⁵In and ⁵⁹Co NMR spectra in CeCoIn₅

The ¹¹⁵In and ⁵⁹Co NMR were measured in CeCoIn₅ at 25.600 MHz and 4.2 K.
Displayed in Figs. 3(a) and 3(b) are spectra obtained with the c axis
parallel and perpendicular to $H_{\rm ext}$, respectively. A set of
widely separated ¹¹⁵In NMR lines were observed which was assigned as the
signal from site A, indicating a huge electric field gradient at the In
site. In addition to ¹¹⁵In NMR from site A, ⁵⁹Co NMR was also observed,
which showed the direction of V_(ZZ)(⁵⁹Co) to be the c axis with the
magnitude of e²qQ/h = 1.58 MHz and η = 0. From these spectra, the
parallel (∥) and perpendicular (⊥) components of ¹¹⁵K and ⁵⁹K with
respect to the c axis, whose T dependences are shown in Fig. 4, were
evaluated.

These Knight shifts K were compared with the magnetic susceptibility χ
of CeCoIn₅ which is also plotted in Fig. 4. The presence of crystalline
electric field that lifts the degeneracy of J = 5/2 multiplet and
induces the large anisotopy in the magnetic susceptibility and K. It is
remarkable that ¹¹⁵K_(∥) has a broad maximum around 50 K, even if the
corresponding anomaly in χ_(∥) is much smaller. The band structure
calculations for CeIrIn₅ indicates that the Fermi surface is produced
mainly by 5d and 4f electrons of Ce and 5p electrons of In (site A).
^(17, 18) Hence, there is a strong coupling of electrons in the Ce-In
plane. On the contrary, the hybridization of 5d electrons of Ir and 5p
electrons of In at the B site makes bonding and antibonding bands, which
results in a small density of states around the Fermi level E_(F) at Ir
(Co). In some compounds containing unstable-moments, such as CeSn₃ and
YbCuAl, the linear relation of χ and the Knight shift breaks down below
$T_{\rm max}$, which reflects the modification of the electronic
structure associated with the formation of 4f-ion coherence. ^(19, 20)
Although the modification of the electronic state is usually small in
heavy fermion compounds, one explanation for the anomaly in K is the
occurrence of reformation of the band structure below $T_{\rm max}$. For
the perpendicular component, no anomaly was observed in ¹¹⁵K_(⊥), which
increases monotonically with decreasing T. Figure 5 gives a
Clogston-Jaccarino plot of Knight shift K versus susceptibility per mole
Ce, with temperature an implicit parameter. A linear relation between K
and χ is observed in the parallel component above 90 K with the coupling
constant of 14.5 kOe/μ_(B), which is nearly comparable with the coupling
constant of the perpendicular component of 10.3 kOe/μ_(B). Presumably
reflecting the small coupling of the Ce-In plane and Co at the
interlayer site, the T dependence of ⁵⁹K_(∥), which is different from
¹¹⁵K_(∥), increases monotonically with decreasing T. ⁵⁹K_(∥) is T
dependent and is positive, which is induced by antiparallel Co 3d spins
through 3d-core polarization. The positive and nearly T independent
⁵⁹K_(⊥) reveals

Figure 4: Temperature dependence of the magnetic susceptibility and
Knight shifts ⁵⁹K and ¹¹⁵K in CeCoIn₅. The anisotropy of K is larger
than that of χ.

Figure 5: Clogston-Jaccarino plot for ⁵⁹K and ¹¹⁵K versus χ in CeCoIn₅.

that the shift is almost determined by the Co orbital contribution. A
Clogston-Jaccarino plot for ⁵⁹K is also shown in Fig. 5. The evaluated
coupling constants are 4.7 $\rm{K}{\rm Oe}/\mu_{B}$ for ⁵⁹K${}_{\rm{I}}$
and 4.6 $\rm{K}{\rm Oe}/\mu_{B}$ for ⁵⁹K${}_{\rm{L}}$ .

As seen in Fig. 6, a large decrease of ¹¹⁵K was observed in both
directions below T_(C). For ⁵⁹K, the decrease was observed only in the
parallel component, and not in the perpendicular component. It is
expected that no decrease of ⁵⁹K${}_{\rm{L}}$ reflects large
T-independent Co 3d orbital contribution and small transferred
contribution from Ce. The Ce susceptibility has also van Vleck component
χ_(vv, αβ)∝∑${}_{\rm{n}}$[(0|J_(α)|n) ×(n|J_(β)|0)/(E_(n)−E₀)], where
|0⟩ and |n⟩ is the ground and excited states splitted by the crystalline
electric field. It is noted that χ_(vv, αβ) contains spin part and
induces spin polarization at the Co site, which does not decrease in the
superconducting state.

### nuclear spin-lattice relaxation rate 1/T₁

Using ¹¹⁵In NQR at site A, the nuclear spin lattice relaxation rates in
both systems were measured. The expected functional form for m(t) for
spin I = 9/2 and η = 0 is a sum of four exponents with the coefficients
determined by the initial conditions.[21] The function m(t) contained
only two fitting parameters 1/T₁ and the numerical factor C, which is
given by

$$1-\frac{m(t)}{m(\infty)} = C\bigg{[}\,b_{1}\exp\bigg{[}-\frac{3t}{T_{1}}\bigg{]}+b_{2}\exp \bigg{[}-\frac{10t}{T_{1}}\bigg{]}$$
$$+b_{3}\exp\bigg{[}-\frac{21t}{T_{1}}\bigg{]}+b_{4}\exp\bigg{[}- \frac{36t}{T_{1}}\bigg{]}\bigg{]}.$$

In our measurements, 1/T₁ was obtained by different quadrupole
transitions ± 1/2→ ± 3/2, ± 3/2→ ± 5/2, and ± 7/2↔ ± 9/2. The
corresponding b- coefficients are described in Ref. [21]. The T
dependence of the 1/T₁’s obtained in both compounds are shown in Figs. 7
and 8. In CeCoIn₅, the T dependence is close to T^(1/4). In CeIrIn₅,
1/T₁ in the normal state varies nearly as T^(1/2) in the temperature
range

Figure 6: T dependence of K in the superconducting state of CeCoIn₅.

Figure 7: T dependence of 1/T₁ in CeCoIn₅. The values of 1/T₁ below 1.3
K and above 1.3 K were evaluated from the ± 1/2↔ ± 3/2 and ± 7/2↔ ± 9/2
transitions, respectively. 1/T₁ evaluated with the polar model is shown
as the solid line. Below 0.2 K, the recovery curves could not be fitted
by a unique value of 1/T₁. The shorter components are plotted as open
triangles.

between 10 and 80 K, and the T dependence increases gradually below
about 10 K with decreasing T. 1/_T_1 is expected to be proportional to
the temperature in a model of simple Fermi-liquid behavior, which was
not observed in both compounds. 1/_T_1 decreases rapidly just below _T_C
= 2.3 K in CeCoIn5, and below about 0.3 K, which is lower than _T_C =
0.4 K of a single crystal, in CeIrIn5. Since NQR measurements were
performed on a powder, _T_C might decrease due to defects induced by
crushing of the single crystal. It is expected that compounds having a
lower _T_C and a larger superconducting coherence length would be more
sensitive to defects. In both compounds, Hebel-Slichter coherence peaks
were not observed. In CeIrIn5, 1/_T_1 varies nearly proportionally to T3
at low temperatures. In CeCoIn5, however, the T dependence becomes
saturated below 0.3 K, where the recovery curve was not fitted by a
unique T1. The shorter and longer components of 1/_T_1 are shown in Fig.
7. This saturation would be caused by the extrinsic contribution to T1
from a small amount of paramagnetic impurities, which masks the
intrinsic superconducting quasiparticle contribution.

## IV Discussion

It was found recently that AF ordering appears in Ce(IrRh1-_x_)In5 for x
< 0.6 (Ref. [22]) and in Ce(CoxRh1-_x_)In5 for x < 0.7.23 Also the T
dependence of the resistivity in CeCoIn5 and CeIrIn5 are not described
by the Landau Fermi-liquid picture.13,14 These results suggest that
CeIrIn5 and CeCoIn5 are located close to AF state. Indeed, the observed
T dependence of 1/_T_1 in CeCoIn5 and CeIrIn5 differs from the issue
expected in the simple Fermi-liquid state, i.e., 1/_T_1 varies in
proportion to T. 1/_T_1 would be governed by the strong AF spin
fluctuations. In this case, one way to analyze 1/_T_1 is the use of the
spin fluctuation theory developed by Moriya, which shows 1/(_T_1)_x_ <
_kh_Q around antiferromagnetic instabilities in the three-dimensional
case. Here _kh_Q represents the staggered susceptibility. In the
theory,24X_(Q) is determined by four parameters, which, however, were
not yet determined in CeTIn5. Therefore, we simply assume Curie-Weiss
behavior for _khQ_, which is similar to the 3d transition metal case,25

$$X_{Q}{\propto}\frac{1}{T + \theta}.$$

In this model, the observed T dependence of 1/_T_1 (close to $\sqrt{T}$)
in CeIrIn5 was explained by taking the value of _th_   0.67. The spin
fluctuation theory predicts a T1/4 dependence of 1/_T_1 near an AF
instability, which was observed in CeCoIn5.

Next, the ratio of 1/_T_1 in the superconducting state and that of the
normal state, T1_N/_T_1S, is related to the density of states (DOS)
_N_S(_E_) as

$$\frac{T_{1N}}{T_{1S}} = \frac{2}{k_{B}T}{\int_{0}^{\infty}}[N_{S}(E)^{2} + M(E)^{2}]f(E)[1 - f(E)]dE,$$

where _M_(_E_) is the "anomalous DOS" arising from the coherence effect
which only exists in _s_-wave superconductivity, and _f_(_E_) is the
Fermi distribution function. 1/_T_1_N is evaluated by extending the
normal state data from high temperatures. Unconventional
superconductivity is characterized by the superconducting gap structure
which has nodes along certain direction. Generally, energy gap has
points or line nodes, which satisfy the group theoretical restriction
arising from the crystal symmetry. In most of the case, the detailed
structure of the gap function is remaining as an unresolved issue.
However, a crude evaluation of 1/_T_1 would be possible by the simple
polar model Δ = Δ₀cos θ, since 1/_T_1 would likely be insensitive to
points nodes in the presence of line nodes. If we calculate T1,
tentatively assuming 2Δ₀(0) = 10k_(B)T_(C) for CeCoIn5 and 5 k_(B)T_(C)
for CeIrIn5, the experimental values are reproduced well as plotted in
Figs. 7 and 8. The nearly T3 law of 1/_T_1 is reminiscent of the
relaxation behavior in many heavy fermion superconductors CeCu2Si2,26
UPt3,27 UBe13,28 URu2Si2,29 and UPd2Al3.30

By using the same energy gap, the T dependence of K is also analyzed in
the case of even parity

$$K_{S}{\propto}X_{S}{\propto}{\int}\;N_{S}(E)\frac{df(E)}{dE}dE,$$

which is also plotted as the solid lines in Fig. 6. The calculation has
reproduced the T dependence of the observed Knight shift. One of the
aspects of K in the superconducting state is that K varies nearly
linearly with T at very low temperatures, which arises from the
low-energy excitation of quasiparticles in the superconducting state.
The existence of line nodes explains the T dependence. The fact that K
and 1/_T_1 were consistently explained by an anisotropic spin singlet
model, strongly indicates the appearance of anisotropic even parity
(probably d wave) superconductivity in CeTIn5. Further measurements
using a directional probe in k space, such as thermal conductivity,
would be useful for determining the precise gap symmetry and the
position of the gap at the Fermi surface.31

## V Summary

In CeCoIn5, the 1/_T_1 varies nearly as T1/4 in the normal state. In
CeIrIn5, 1/_T_1 varies as T1/2 in the temperature range between 10 and
80 K, which are well explained as these compounds located close to the
AF instability (quantum critical point). In the superconducting state,
the Knight shift K deceases in all directions and 1/_T_1 reveals the
anisotropic nature of the superconducting energy gap. These results
indicate that CeCoIn5 and CeIrIn5 exhibit anisotropic even parity
(probably _d_-wave) superconductivity.

_Note added in proof._ A detail thermal conductivity measurement of
CeCoIn5 has recently been performed. The measurement shows that the
symmetry of the superconductivity is most likely to be _d_x_2-_y_2,32
The 115In NQR measurement of CeIrIn5 has been recently performed by
another group.33 Their results are similar to ours.

###### Acknowledgements.

This work was supported by a grant-in-aid from the Ministry of
Education, Science and Culture of Japan. Research at UCSD was supported
by U.S. Department of Energy under Grant No. DE-FG-03-45230 and the
National Science Foundation under Grant No. DMR-97-05454. Work at LANL
was performed under the auspices of the U.S. Department of Energy.

## References

* [1] T. Moriya and T. Takimoto, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **64**, 960
(1995). * [2] P. W. Anderson, Phys. Rev. B **30**, 1549 (1984). * [3] F.
Steglich, J. Aarts, C. D. Bredl, W. Lieke, D. Meschede, W. Franz, and H.
Schafer, Phys. Rev. Lett. **43**, 1892 (1979). * [4] D. Jaccard, K.
Behnia, and J. Sierro, Phys. Lett. A **163**, 475 (1992). * [5] F. M.
Grosche, S. R. Julian, N. D. Mathur, and G. G. Lonzarich, Physica B
**224**, 50 (1996). * [6] F. M. Grosche, S. R. Julian, N. D. Mathur, F.
V. Carter, and G. G. Lonzarich, Physica B **237**, 197 (1997). * [7] R.
Movshovich, T. Graf, D. Mandrus, J. D. Thompson, J. L. Smith, and Z.
Fisk, Phys. Rev. B **53**, 8241 (1996). * [8] I. R. Walker, F. M.
Grosche, D. M. Freye, and G. G. Lonzarich, Physica C **282**, 303
(1997). * [9] S. J. S. Lister, F. M. Grosche, F. V. Carter, R. K. W.
Haselwimmer, S. S. Saxena, N. D. Mathur, S. R. Julian, and G. G.
Lonzarich, Z. Phys. B **103**, 263 (1997). * [10] H. Hegger, C.
Petrovic, E. G. Moshopoulou, M. F. Hundley, J. L. Sarrao, Z. Fisk, and
J. D. Thompson, Phys. Rev. Lett. **84**, 4986 (2000). * [11] N. J.
Curro, P. C. Hammel, P. G. Pagliuso, J. L. Sarrao, J. D. Thompson, and
Z. Fisk, Phys. Rev. B **62**, R6100 (2000). * [12] W. Bao, P. G.
Pagliuso, J. L. Sarrao, J. D. Thompson, and Z. Fisk, J. W. Lynn, and R.
W. Erwin, Phys. Rev. B **62**, R14 621 (2000). * [13] C. Petrovic, R.
Movshovich, M. Jamime, P. G. Pagliuso, M. F. Hundley, J. L. Sarrao, Z.
Fisk, and J. D. Thompson, Europhys. Lett. **53**, 354 (2001). * [14] C.
Petrovic, P. G. Pagliuso, M. F. Hundley, R. Movshovich, J. L. Sarrao, J.
D. Thompson, Z. Fisk, and P. Monthoux, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter **13**,
L337 (2001). * [15] J. D. Thompson, R. Movshovich, Z. Fisk, F. Bouquet,
N. J. Curro, R. A. Fisher, P. C. Hammel, H. Hegger, M. F. Hundley, M.
Jaime, P. G. Pagliuso, C. Petrovic, N. E. Phillips, and J. L. Sarrao, J.
Magn. Magn. Mater. (to be published). * [16] Y. Kohori, Y. Yamato, Y.
Iwamoto, and T. Kohara, Eur. Phys. J. B **18**, 601 (2000). * [17] Y.
Haga, Y. Inada, H. Harima, K. Oikawa, M. Murakawa, H. Nakawaki, Y.
Tokiwa, D. Aoki, H. Shishido, S. Ikeda, N. Watanabe, and Y. Onuki, Phys.
Rev. B **63**, 060503 (2001). * [18] D. Hall, E. Palm, T. Murphy, S.
Tozer, E. Miller-Ricci, L. Peabody, C. Q. H. Li, U. Alver, R. G.
Goodrich, J. L. Sarrao, P. G. Pagliuso, J. M. Wills, and Z. Fisk,
cond-mat/0011395, Phys. Rev. B (to be published). * [19] D. E.
MacLaughlin, J. Magn. Magn. Mater. **47.848**, 121 (1985). * [20] E. Kim
and D. L. Cox, Phys. Rev. B **58**, 3313 (1998). * [21] D. E.
MacLaughlin, J. D. Williamson, and J. Butterworth, Phys. Rev. B **4**,
53 (1971). * [22] P. G. Pagliuso, C. Petrovic, R. Movshovich, D. Hall,
M. F. Hundley, J. L. Sarrao, J. D. Thompson, and Z. Fisk,
cond-mat/0101316 (unpublished). * [23] V. S. Zapf, E. J. Freeman, E. D.
Bauer, J. Petricka, C. Sirvent, N. A. Frederick, R. P. Dickey, and M. B.
Maple (unpublished). * [24] A. Ishigaki and T. Moriya, J. Phys. Soc.
Jpn. **65**, 3402 (1996). * [25] T. Moriya and K. Ueda, Solid State
Commun. **15**, 169 (1974). * [26] Y. Kitaoka, K. Ueda, T. Kohara, K.
Asayama, Y. Onuki, and T. Komatsubara, J. Magn. Magn. Mater. **52**, 341
(1985). * [27] Y. Kohori, T. Kohara, H. Shibai, Y. Oda, Y. Kitaoka, and
K. Asayama, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **57**, 395 (1988). * [28] D. E.
MacLaughlin, C. Tien, W. G. Clark, M. D. Lan, Z. Fisk, J. L. Smith, and
H. R. Ott, Phys. Rev. Lett. **53**, 1833 (1984). * [29] K. Matsuda, Y.
Kohori, and T. Kohara, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. **65**, 679 (1996). * [30] K.
Matsuda, Y. Kohori, and T. Kohara, Phys. Rev. B **55**, 15 223 (1997). *
[31] In the case of high T_(c) YBa₂Cu₃O₇, a clear four-fold modulation
of the thermal conductivity with an in-plane magnetic field which
reflects the angular position of nodes of d_(x² − y²) symmetry has been
observed, F. Yu _et al._, Phys. Rev. Lett. **74**, 5136 (1995); K. Izawa
_et al._, _ibid._**86**, 2653 (2001). * [32] K. Izawa, H. Yamaguchi, Y.
Matsuda, H. Shishido, R. Settai and Y. Onuki, Phys. Rev. Lett. **87**,
057002 (2001). * [33] G.-q. Zheng, K. Tanabe, T. Mito, S. Kawasaki, Y.
Kitaoka, D. Aoki, Y. Haga and Y. Onuki, Phys. Rev. Lett. **86**, 4664
(2001).
