# Superconductivity in the ferromagnetic semiconductor samarium nitride

E.-M. Anton,¹ S. Granville,² A. Engel,³ S. V. Chong,² M. Governale,¹ U.
Zulicke,¹ A. G. Moghaddam,⁴ H. J. Trodahl,¹ F. Natali,¹ S. Vezian,⁵ and
B. J. Ruckl

ben.ruck@vuw.ac.nz ¹MacDiarmid Institute for Advanced Materials and
Nanotechnology, School of Chemical and Physical Sciences, Victoria
University of Wellington, P. O. Box 600, Wellington 6140, New Zealand
²MacDiarmid Institute for Advanced Materials and Nanotechnology,
Robinson Research Institute, Victoria University of Wellington, P. O.
Box 33436, Lower Hutt 5046, New Zealand ³Physics Institute, University
of Zurich, Winterthurerstr. 190, 8057 Zurich, Switzerland ⁴Department of
Physics, Institute for Advanced Studies in Basic Sciences (IASBS),
Zanjan 45137-66731, Iran ⁵Centre de Recherche sur
l’He$\hat{\text{e}}$to-Epixiae et ses Applications (CRHEA), Centre
National de la Recherche Scientifique, Rue Bernard Gregory, 06560
Valbonne, France

###### Abstract

Conventional wisdom expects that making semiconductors ferromagnetic
requires doping with magnetic ions and that superconductivity cannot
coexist with magnetism. However, recent concerted efforts exploring new
classes of materials have established that intrinsic ferromagnetic
semiconductors exist and that certain types of strongly correlated
metals can be ferromagnetic and superconducting at the same time. Here
we show that the trifecta of semiconducting behavior, ferromagnetism,
and superconductivity can be achieved in a single material. Samarium
nitride (SmN) is a well-characterized intrinsic ferromagnetic
semiconductor, hosting strongly spin-ordered 4f electrons below a Curie
temperature of 27 K. We have now observed that it also hosts a
superconducting phase below 4 K when doped to electron concentrations
above 10²¹ cm⁻³. The large exchange splitting of the conduction band in
SmN favors equal-spin triplet pairing with p-wave symmetry.
Significantly, superconductivity is enhanced in superlattices of
gadolinium nitride (GdN) and SmN. An analysis of the robustness of such
a superconducting phase against disorder leads to the conclusion that
the 4f bands are crucial for superconductivity, making SmN a
heavy-fermion-type superconductor.

2016 The paper is organized as follows. In the immediately following
Sec. II, the basic magnetic and electronic properties of SmN are
introduced. We then provide details about the experimental techniques
employed in our study in Sec. III. The main experimental results are
presented in Sec. IV, showing superconductivity in thin-film SmN samples
and its strengthening in SmN/GdN superlattices. Section V is devoted to
a theoretical analysis of the experimental results, and we summarize the
main findings of the paper in Sec. VI.

## II Review of the magnetic and electronic properties of SmN

The past decade has seen significant advances in the growth and
passivation of thin films of the rare-earth nitrides LN, where L denotes
a member of the lanthanide series [32; 33; 34]. In particular, it is
known that almost all of them are semiconductors in both their
paramagnetic and ferromagnetic states. In the same time frame, there has
been progress in theoretical treatments of strongly correlated electrons
that enabled reliable band-structure calculations that show good
agreement with recent experimental studies [35]. The band structures
predicted by the treatments show indirect band gaps, with the N 2p
valence band (VB) maximum at Γ and the L 5d conduction band (CB) minimum
at X. In addition, there are L 4f bands that cross the valence and
conduction bands at energies that vary across the series. GdN, with its
exactly half-filled 4f shell, has the majority-spin 4f bands about 8 eV
below, and the minority-spin bands about 5 eV above the gap [28; 33]. In
materials involving lighter L elements, there are empty majority-spin
bands threading the CB, while for LNs with heavier L elements, there are
filled minority-spin bands crossing the VB. These are generally very
narrow, heavy-mass bands, though they must hybridize at some level with
the 2p and 5d bands.

For GdN, it is now clear that there is a finite band gap [36; 37], which
has facilitated this material’s integration into device structures [38;
39]. The available experimental data also support the presence of a
finite band gap in SmN [34; 35; 40], although the data are less complete
than for GdN and the possibility of a small band overlap cannot be ruled
out at present [41]. In any case, the rare-earth nitrides commonly
exhibit high carrier concentrations and metallic behavior due to large
concentrations of N vacancies, which potentially release three electrons
per defect [34; 42; 43]. The band structure of SmN is represented
schematically in Fig. 1, where the metallic behavior is represented by
the Fermi level $E_{\rm F}$ being located above the CB minimum [34; 44].
This arrangement is consistent with the experimentally measured carrier
concentration of 2 × 10²¹ cm⁻³ in the SmN sample showing
superconductivity (see below), which corresponds to a N-vacancy
concentration of a few percent.

The lanthanide (L³⁺) ions in the nitrides have partially filled 4f
shells which harbor the majority of the magnetic moments. However,
unlike transition-metal compounds, the strong spin-orbit coupling and
the relatively weak intra-ion overlap conspire to prevent a full
quenching of the orbital magnetic moment. As a result, the net magnetic
moment of these ions can be dominated by either the spin or orbital
contribution. SmN holds a special place in the series [45]. As expected
from applying Hund’s rules, it has a near-zero magnetic moment in the
ferromagnetic phase due to an almost perfect cancellation of the 4f spin
magnetic moment by the opposing 4f orbital contribution. Nonetheless,
its 4f spins are aligned as in any ferromagnet, showing a coercive field
of more than 6 T at 2 K [46; 47]. The evidence for ferromagnetic
alignment is unambiguous, including a clear hysteretic behavior of the
magnetization, the 4f spin alignment measured by x-ray magnetic circular
dichroism (XMCD) at the M_(4, 5) edges, and neutron diffraction studies
[46; 47; 48; 49]. The large 4f-5d exchange interaction then drives a
large spin splitting of several hundred meV in the Sm 5d-dominated
conduction band [28]. A direct signature of that spin splitting is
provided by XMCD at the Sm L_(2, 3) edges. These 2p-5d transitions
represent spin-resolved electronic transitions into the conduction band,
so their XMCD spectra are to first order proportional to the size of the
spin splitting [50]. The strong XMCD signal shown in Fig. 2 confirms
that the conduction band is indeed strongly spin split, and an
associated hysteresis further confirms the ferromagnetic ordering of the
Sm moments [47].

## III Details of experimental methods

The films used in this study were prepared by molecular beam epitaxy in
our two laboratories, at Victoria University of Wellington and at
CRHEA-CNRS in Valbonne. High-purity Sm or Gd metal was evaporated in the
presence of ∼3 × 10⁻⁴ mbar molecular nitrogen (N₂), which reacts
spontaneously with the metal to form the nitride. The film thicknesses
of ∼100 nm were determined by Rutherford backscattering spectrometry.
The superlattice comprised layers of 10 nm GdN and 5 nm SmN, determined
with a microbalance calibrated by prior Rutherford backscattering
spectrometry. The (111)-oriented epitaxial films were grown at 400−500
^(∘)C on the hexagonal face of aluminium nitride (AlN), which was in
turn grown on either commercial c-plane sapphire or (111) silicon. To
prevent oxidation, a 50 to 150 nm thick gallium nitride or AlN capping
layer was grown on

Figure 1: Schematic representation of the band structure of SmN. The
valence and conduction bands are split into majority-spin (black solid
curves) and minority-spin (red dashed curves) by the exchange
interaction with filled 4f levels. An empty majority-spin 4f level is
shown as a dispersionless band near the conduction-band minimum. Its
exact location, and the size (or even sign) of the band gap $E_{\rm g}$,
are not well known. Here the Fermi level $E_{\rm F}$ is shown inside the
conduction band so the SmN is degenerately doped.

top of the rare-earth nitride films. Further details of the growth
procedure can be found elsewhere [51, 52].

The low energy of formation of nitrogen vacancies dictates that their
concentration is of order 1

The resistivity and magnetoresistance data in Figs. 4(a) and 4(b) were
measured in the van-der-Pauw geometry in perpendicular field in a
Quantum Design PPMS equipped with a He-3 option. For Fig. 5(b), a PPMS
with a horizontal rotator option was used to allow measurements in both
parallel and perpendicular fields with respect to the plane of the film.
The resistivity data in Fig. 5(a) and Fig. 3 were measured in a
closed-cycle cryostat. The magnetic data were obtained with a Quantum
Design MPMS-7 SQUID magnetometer. To show the diamagnetism in the
superconducting state, the measurements were performed in field-normal
configuration because the superconducting penetration depth is larger
than the film thickness.

## IV IV. Experimental results

### A. Superconductivity in homogeneous SmN

While investigating electronic and magnetic properties for epitaxial
films of the rare-earth-nitride series, we have found that many of our
SmN films, and so far only SmN, display clear superconductivity when
sufficiently heavily doped. Interestingly, the metallic, nonmagnetic end
members of the rare-earth nitride series have been known to be
superconducting for some time [54, 55].

In Fig. 4(a) we show the temperature-dependent resistance of a
homogeneous SmN film that displays the superconducting transition at low
temperature and, at higher temperature, an anomaly at the Curie
temperature. This film, with an electron concentration of 2 × 10²¹ cm⁻³,
exhibits the onset of superconductivity at 2-3 K and reaches zero
resistance below 0.7 K. The magnetic-field-driven return to the normal
state is complex, as seen in Fig. 4(b). Strict zero resistance is
destroyed in fields as low as 10 mT, but superconductivity still
persists in the majority of the film so the full return to the normal
state does not occur below a field of about 4 T. Within the intermediate
state, the resistivity displays hysteresis, seen clearly in the 0.4 K
data in Fig. 4(b), signaling a coexistence of ferromagnetic and
superconducting order parameters, at least in an intermediate mixed
state.

In the magnetic measurements shown in Fig. 4(c), a clear signature of
the superconducting diamagnetic response appears in the
zero-field-cooled magnetization at the lowest temperatures. This
supports the persistence of ferromagnetic order on entering the
superconducting phase, though the very small magnetization of SmN limits
the sensitivity of magnetization studies. The coexistence of
ferromagnetic and superconducting order is established even more
strongly by the field dependence of the magnetic moment in Fig. 4(d),
where the diamagnetic response associated with the Meissner effect is
evident at fields below about 5 mT. It is important to note that the
diamagnetism is incomplete, corresponding to only 10

Figure 3: The resistivity of a near-stoichiometric SmN film with low
carrier concentration. In this film, the resistivity rises continuously
as the temperature falls, with an anomaly at the Curie temperature
signaling the development of spin splitting at the band edges. There is
no sign of an onset of superconductivity in this sample.

Figure 2: X-ray magnetic circular dichroism (XMCD) at the Sm L₂ edge in
a bulk SmN film and a SmN/GdN superlattice taken at 15 K and 6 T, which
measures transitions into conduction-band (CB) states. The large XMCD
amplitude demonstrates the strong exchange splitting between spin-up and
spin-down CB states. The XMCD signal is 3 times larger in the
superlattice sample (cf. Refs. [47, 48]), implying an even stronger CB
spin splitting in that case. The inset shows the associated magnetic
hysteresis of the bulk SmN film measured using XMCD, confirming the
ferromagnetism.

distribution of the nitrogen vacancies that provide the doping. The
latter has been observed in GdN films where it leads to formation of
magnetic polarons [57].

### Superconductivity in a SmN/GdN superlattice

In order to investigate further the coexistence of superconductivity and
spin-split bands, we have studied a superlattice consisting of SmN
layers in direct contact with strongly ferromagnetic GdN in a 12×(10 nm
GdN/5 nm SmN) superlattice. In this context, it is important to
recognize that GdN has never shown any propensity for superconductivity.
However, GdN has one of the strongest spin alignments known, with a
ferromagnetically aligned 7 μ_(B) moment on each Gd³⁺ ion below 70 K
that resides purely in its spin as the total orbital angular momentum
vanishes for this half-filled 4f shell [34]. X-ray magnetic circular
dichroism (Fig. 2) shows that the ferromagnetic exchange across the
SmN/GdN interface increases the Sm L_(2, 3) XMCD signal by a factor of
3, i.e., the spin splitting in the conduction band of the thin SmN
layers is strongly enhanced by the proximity to the ferromagnetic GdN
layers [47, 48].

Transport measurements shown in Figs. 5(a) and 5(b) reveal a
superconducting phase that develops even more strongly in the
superlattice, despite the enhanced spin splitting. Interestingly, not
only is the critical temperature higher in these layers, but also the
critical field is enormously enhanced [see Fig. 5(b)], and zero
resistance is maintained now to fields as large as 2 T. The coherence
length implied by that critical field is ∼10 nm [1], i.e., much smaller
than the thickness of the homogeneous film above but comparable to the
SmN-layer thickness in the superlattice. The temperature-dependent
magnetization of the superlattice, shown in Fig. 5(c), is dominated by
the very strong ferromagnetic moment of GdN, which has a Curie
temperature of 70 K. Similarly to Fig. 4(c), Fig. 5(c) also shows a
diamagnetic anomaly at the lowest temperatures, confirming the existence
of the superconducting phase. Figure 5(d) displays that diamagnetic
response at low fields, with a low-field slope that, in the superlattice
case, corresponds to full diamagnetism (Meissner fraction of 1.0) in the
SmN layers. Hence, again the superconducting signature is exhibited much
more strongly in the superlattice, despite its more strongly spin-split
conduction band.

## V Theoretical analysis: spin-triplet heavy-fermion superconductivity

The experimental data clearly indicate a coexistence of
superconductivity and ferromagnetism. The large exchange

Figure 4: (a) Temperature-dependent resistivity of a SmN film, showing
an anomaly near the Curie temperature of 27 K and the onset of
superconductivity below about 3 K. The inset shows the full
superconducting transition. (b) Perpendicular field magnetoresistance of
the sample shown in (a). (c) Field-cooled (FC) and zero-field-cooled
(ZFC) magnetization data for a bulk SmN film, showing the ferromagnetic
ordering that occurs below 27 K, along with evidence for the onset of
superconductivity below about 4.5 K. (d) Field-dependent magnetization
showing diamagnetism at low fields associated with superconductivity.

splitting of the conduction and valence bands in SmN renders it a
half-metallic ferromagnetic semiconductor at the doping levels realized
in our samples. As a result, only majority-spin electrons are available
to form Cooper pairs, and the order parameter will be a fully polarized
spin-triplet state | ↑ ↑⟩. Due to the fermionic nature of electrons, the
orbital part of the order parameter needs to possess odd parity in
space, which implies an odd orbital-angular-momentum quantum number
l = 1, 3, … or, using the commonly adopted atomic convention, p, f, …
symmetry. Most probably, the lowest value of Cooper-pair angular
momentum compatible with the required order-parameter symmetry will be
realized, and therefore we assume a p-wave pairing. The associated pair
potential Δ_( ↑ ↑)(k) can, in principle, have the following possible
states:

$$\Delta_{\uparrow\uparrow}(\mathbf{k})=\Delta_{0}\times\begin{cases}\frac{k_{z} }{k_{y}}&p_{z}\text{-like symmetry}\\ \frac{k_{z}\pm ik_{y}}{k_{y}}&p_{x}\pm ip_{y}\text{-like symmetry}\end{cases}\ .$$
(1)

For both these possibilities, the magnitude of the order parameter is
given by Δ₀ ≈ 2ℏΩ_(c)exp (−D/λ), where D is the number of spatial
dimensions, ℏΩ_(c) the cut-off energy for the attractive interaction,
and λ the dimensionless coupling constant for the p-wave pairing
channel. The experimental data do not give us enough information to
infer the origin of the pairing interaction. However, the large
splitting between majority and minority bands allows us to conclude that
spin fluctuations play no role. This leaves the combination of
electron-phonon and electron-electron interactions as the most likely
cause for Cooper pairing in SmN. The sharper superconducting transition
in the superlattice indicates a cleaner sample and/or interface-enhanced
superconductivity. On the other hand, the broad superconducting
transition for the thin film can be associated with the formation of
domains, which is consistent with the measured incomplete diamagnetic
response [see Fig. 4(d)].

An important issue for p-wave superconductivity is its weakness with
respect to disorder. It has been established that, for all possible
forms of the order parameter in any spatial dimension, the critical
temperature T_(c) is suppressed with respect to the one in the absence
of disorder T_(c0) according

Figure 5: (a) Temperature-dependent resistivity of a SmN/GaN
superlattice, showing a much more abrupt superconducting transition than
in bulk SmN films. Anomalies can be seen corresponding to the Curie
temperatures of both the GdN and SmN layers, at 70 K and 30 K,
respectively. (b) Magnetoresistance of the same superlattice in fields
applied parallel (black) and perpendicular (red) to the layers. The line
shape enables straightforward determination of an upper critical field
μ₀H_(c2). Inset: The corresponding upper critical field plotted versus
temperature. (c) The temperature-dependent magnetization is
overwhelmingly dominated by the GdN. Inset: Hysteresis loops confirming
the GdN remains ferromagnetic even in the temperature range where the
SmN is superconducting. (d) The low-field magnetization shows a clear
diamagnetic response in the superconducting regime that is superimposed
on the large GdN magnetic moment.

to the universal formula [3]

$$\ln\frac{T_{\rm c0}}{T_{\rm c}}=\psi\left(\frac{1}{2}+\frac{\hbar}{4\pi\,\tau\,k_{ \rm B}T_{\rm c}}\right)-\psi\left(\frac{1}{2}\right),$$
(2)

where ψ denotes the Digamma function, τ the quasiparticle scattering
time, and $k_{\rm B}$ the Boltzmann constant. From the experimentally
measured resistivity ρ = 0.18 mΩcm and carrier density n = 2 × 10²¹ cm⁻³
for the thin film, we can extract the scattering time τ as a function of
the effective mass m by means of the Drude formula, obtaining
τ = m/(nq²ρ), where q is the electron charge. Using τ and the
experimentally measured $T_{\rm c}\approx 3$ K we can infer what the
critical temperature would be in the absence of disorder. If we use for
the effective mass a value typical for a 5d-band m_(5d) ≲ 0.5 m₀, with
m₀ being the electron mass in vacuum, we obtain a highly unrealistic
value for $T_{\rm c0}\approx 800$ K. In order to obtain a value in the
realistic range $T_{\rm c0}<30$ K, the effective charge-carrier mass m
needs to be larger than 15 m₀, see Fig. 6. Therefore, we must conclude
that the 4f band is crucial for superconductivity in SmN, making it a
heavy-fermion superconductor. We note at this point that such a large
value for the effective mass for the quasielectrons may necessitate the
consideration of nonadiabatic corrections to the electron-phonon
coupling [58].

As a consistency check, we assume phonon-mediated pairing and, taking a
realistic value of the Debye temperature for SmN
[59]$T_{D}=\hbar\Omega_{c}/k_{\rm B}=600$ K and an effective mass of
m = 15 m₀, we find λ ≈ 0.8. Such a value corresponds to a physically
realistic strong coupling situation.

## VI Summary and Outlook

In summary, we consistently find superconductivity below a temperature
of 5 K in heavily doped ferromagnetic SmN but not in any of the other
rare-earth-nitride films that we have grown. As previous work has
established the unique property of SmN to have a nearly vanishing net
magnetic moment coexisting with a large spin splitting in the conduction
band, it can be inferred that the superconductivity resides in a
majority-spin band, implying triplet pairing. SmN is further unusual in
the predicted location of the very narrow majority-spin 4f band at the
bottom of the conduction band. The full set of experimental results
supports a scenario of SmN being a heavy-fermion spin-polarized
superconductor with p-wave triplet pairing.

The discovery of a superconducting ferromagnetic semiconductor paves the
way to explore an entirely new technological paradigm of semiconductor
superspintronics. The ability to adjust the density and type of charge
carriers in this material; the wide range of possibilities for
integrating it into heterostructures with conventional semiconductors or
other members of the rare-earth-nitride series, some of which are
expected to exhibit topological order [60, 61]; and the unconventional
properties of p-wave superconducting phases creates a versatile platform
for engineering new quantum phases of matter with potential for
revolutionizing microchip design.

###### Acknowledgements.

Funding for this work was provided by the Marsden Fund (Contract
No.VUW1309) and the MacDiarmid Institute for Advanced Materials and
Nanotechnology, which is a New Zealand Centre of Research Excellence. We
acknowledge support from GANEX (ANR-11-LABX-0014). GANEX belongs to the
publicly funded Investissements d’Avenir program managed by the French
ANR agency. E.-M.A. was supported by a Feodor Lynen Research Fellowship
from the Alexander von Humboldt Foundation. A.G.M. thanks the School of
Chemical and Physical Sciences at Victoria University of Wellington for
hospitality. We thank L. Figueras for providing the sample and
resistivity data on the near-stoichiometric SmN, J. Kennedy and P. P.
Murmu for Rutherford backscattering spectrometry measurements, and A.
Schilling, S. Wimbush, and J. Storey for discussions.

## References

* [1] M. Tinkham, _Introduction to Superconductivity_ (McGraw-Hill, New
York, 1996). * [2] M. Sigrist and K. Ueda, Phenomenological theory of
unconventional superconductivity, Rev. Mod. Phys. **63**, 239 (1991). *
[3] V. P. Mineev and K. V. Samokhin, _Introduction to Unconventional
Superconductivity_ (Gordon and Breach, New York, 1999). * [4] A. P.
Mackenzie and Y. Maeno, The superconductivity of Sr₂RuO₄ and the physics
of spin-triplet pairing, Rev. Mod. Phys. **75**, 657 (2003). * [5] G.
Deutscher, _New Superconductors: From Granular to High $T_{\rm c}$_
(World Scientific, Singapore, 2006). * [6] S. S. Saxena, P. Agarwal, K.
Ahilan, F. M. Grosche, R. K. W. Haselwimmer, M. J. Steiner, E. Pugh, I.
R. Walker, S. R.

Figure 6: Dependence of the critical temperature $T_{\rm c0}$ in the
clean system on the superconducting charge-carriers’ effective mass, m,
as inferred from the measured $T_{\rm c}\approx 3$ K, the normal-state
resistivity, and the carrier density according to the universal theory
for pair breaking in a p-wave superconductor. Here m₀ denotes the
electron mass in vacuum. A highly unrealistic value for
$T_{\rm c0}\gtrsim 800$ K would be associated with the 5d-band effective
mass m_(5d) ≲ 0.5 m₀. Hence we conclude that carriers from the very
weakly dispersing 4f band of SmN, or possibly its hybridization with the
5d band, must form the superconducting condensate.

Julian, P. Monthoux, G. G. Lonzarich, A. Huxley, I. Sheikin, D.
Braithwaite, and J. Flouquet, Superconductivity on the border of
itinerant-electron ferromagnetism in UGe2, Nature **406**, 587 (2000). *
[7] C. Pfleiderer, M. Uhlarz, S. M. Hayden, R. Vollmer, H. von
Lohneysen, N. R. Bernhoeft, and G. G. Lonzarich, Coexistence of
superconductivity and ferromagnetism in the d-band metal ZrZn₂, Nature
**412**, 58 (2001). * [8] D. Aoki, A. Huxley, E. Ressouche, D.
Braithwaite, J. Flouquet, J.-P. Brison, E. Lhotel, and C. Paulsen,
Coexistence of superconductivity and ferromagnetism in URhGe, Nature
**413**, 613 (2001). * [9] C. Pfleiderer, Superconducting phases of
f-electron compounds, Rev. Mod. Phys. **81**, 1551 (2009). * [10] D.
Aoki, F. Hardy, A. Miyake, V. Taufour, T. D. Matsuda, and J. Flouquet,
Properties of ferromagnetic superconductors, Compt. Rend. Phys. **12**,
573 (2011). * [11] F. S. Bergeret, A. F. Volkov, and K. B. Efetov,
Long-Range Proximity Effects in Superconductor-Ferromagnet Structures,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **86**, 4096 (2001). * [12] M. Eschrig, J. Kopu, J. C.
Cuevas, and G. Schon, Theory of Half-Metal/Superconductor
Heterostructures, Phys. Rev. Lett. **90**, 137003 (2003). * [13] S. A.
Wolf, D. D. Awschalom, R. A. Buhrman, J. M. Daughton, S. von Molnar, M.
L. Roukes, A. Y. Chtchelkanova, and D. M. Treger, Spintronics: A
spin-based electronics vision for the future, Science **294**, 1488
(2001). * [14] J. Linder and J. W. A. Robinson, Superconducting
spintronics, Nat. Phys. **11**, 307 (2015). * [15] Matthias Eschrig,
Spin-polarized supercurrents for spintronics: A review of current
progress, Rep. Prog. Phys. **78**, 104501 (2015). * [16] A. C. Basaran,
J. E. Villegas, J. S. Jiang, A. Hoffmann, and I. K. Schuller, Mesoscopic
magnetism and superconductivity, MRS Bull. **40**, 925 (2015). * [17] R.
M. Lutchyn, J. D. Sau, and S. Das Sarma, Majorana Fermions and a
Topological Phase Transition in Semiconductor-Superconductor
Heterostructures, Phys. Rev. Lett. **105**, 077001 (2010). * [18] Y.
Oreg, G. Refael, and F. von Oppen, Helical Liquids and Majorana Bound
States in Quantum Wires, Phys. Rev. Lett. **105**, 177002 (2010). * [19]
V. Mourik, K. Zuo, S. M. Frolov, S. R. Plissard, E. P. A. M. Bakkers,
and L. P. Kouwenhoven, Signatures of Majorana fermions in hybrid
superconductor-semiconductor nanowire devices, Science **336**, 1003
(2012). * [20] A. Das, Y. Ronen, Y. Most, Y. Oreg, M. Heiblum, and H.
Shtrikman, Zero-bias peaks and splitting in an Al-InAs nanowire
topological superconductor as a signature of Majorana fermions, Nat.
Phys. **8**, 887 (2012). * [21] T. Schapers,
_Superconductor/Semiconductor Junctions_ (Springer, Berlin, 2001). *
[22] T. Herrmannsdorfer, V. Heera, O. Ignatchik, M. Uhlarz, A. Mucklich,
M. Posselt, H. Reuther, B. Schmidt, K.-H. Heinig, W. Skorupa, M.
Voelskow, C. Wundisch, R. Skrotzki, M. Helm, and J. Wosnitza,
Superconducting State in a Gallium-Doped Germanium Layer at low
Temperatures, Phys. Rev. Lett. **102**, 217003 (2009). * [23] X. Blase,
E. Bustarret, C. Chapelier, T. Klein, and C. Marcenant, Superconducting
group-IV semiconductors, Nat. Mater. **8**, 375 (2009). * [24] T.
Jungwirth, J. Sinova, J. Masek, J. Kucera, and A. H. MacDonald, Theory
of ferromagnetic (III,Mn)V semiconductors, Rev. Mod. Phys. **78**, 809
(2006). * [25] Tomasz Dietl, A ten-year perspective on dilute magnetic
semiconductors and oxides, Nat. Mater. **9**, 965 (2010). * [26] T.
Dietl and H. Ohno, Dilute ferromagnetic semiconductors: Physics and
spintronic structures, Rev. Mod. Phys. **86**, 187 (2014). * [27] T.
Jungwirth, J. Wunderlich, V. Novak, K. Olejnik, B. L. Gallagher, R. P.
Campion, K. W. Edmonds, A. W. Rushforth, A. J. Ferguson, and P. Nemec,
Spin-dependent phenomena and device concepts explored in (Ga,Mn)As, Rev.
Mod. Phys. **86**, 855 (2014). * [28] P. Larson, W. R. L. Lambrecht, A.
Chantis, and M. van Schilfgaarde, Electronic structure of rare-earth
nitrides using the LSDA +U approach: Importance of allowing 4f orbitals
to break the cubic crystal symmetry, Phys. Rev. B **75**, 045114
(2007). * [29] P. Fulde and R. A. Ferrell, Superconductivity in a strong
spin-exchange field, Phys. Rev. **135**, A550 (1964). * [30] A. I.
Larkin and Y. N. Ovchinnikov, Nonuniform state of superconductors, Sov.
Phys. JETP **20**, 762 (1965). * [31] Editorial, The rise of quantum
materials, Nat. Phys. **12**, 105 (2016). * [32] C. M. Aerts, P.
Strange, M. Horne, W. M. Temmerman, Z. Szotek, and A. Svane,
Half-metallic to insulating behavior of rare-earth nitrides, Phys. Rev.
B **69**, 045115 (2004). * [33] Chun-Gang Duan, R. F. Sabirianov, W. N.
Mei, P. A. Dowben, S. S. Jaswal, and E. Y. Tsymbal, Electronic, magnetic
and transport properties of rare-earth monopnictides, J. Phys.: Condens.
Matter **19**, 315220 (2007). * [34] F. Natali, B. J. Ruck, N. O. V.
Plank, H. J. Trodahl, S. Granville, C. Meyer, and W. R. L. Lambrecht,
Rare-earth mononitrides, Prog. Mater. Sci. **58**, 1316 (2013). * [35]
A. R. H. Preston, S. Granville, D. H. Housden, B. Ludbrook, B. J. Ruck,
H. J. Trodahl, A. Bittar, G. V. M. Williams, J. E. Downes, A. DeMasi, Y.
Zhang, K. E. Smith, and W. R. L. Lambrecht, Comparison between
experiment and calculated band structures for DyN and SmN, Phys. Rev. B
**76**, 245120 (2007). * [36] H. J. Trodahl, A. R. H. Preston, J. Zhong,
B. J. Ruck, N. M. Strickland, C. Mitra, and W. R. L. Lambrecht,
Ferromagnetic redshift of the optical gap in GdN, Phys. Rev. B **76**,
085211 (2007). * [37] R. Vidyasagar, T. Kita, T. Sakurai, and H. Ohta,
Giant optical splitting in the spin-states assisting a sharp magnetic
switching in GdN thin films, Appl. Phys. Lett. **102**, 222408 (2013). *
[38] K. Senapati, M. G. Blamire, and Z. H. Barber, Spin-filter Josephson
junctions, Nature Mater. **10**, 849 (2011). * [39] A. Kandala, A.
Richardella, D. W. Rench, D. M. Zhang, T. C. Flanagan, and N. Samarth,
Growth and characterization of hybrid insulating ferromagnet-topological
insulator heterostructure devices, Appl. Phys. Lett. **103**, 202409
(2013). * [40] M. Azeem, Optical properties of rare earth nitrides,
Ph.D. thesis, Victoria University of Wellington, 2013. * [41] C. Morari,
F. Beiugeanu, I. Di Marco, L. Peters, E. Burzo, S. Mican, and L.
Chioncel, Magnetism and electronic structure calculation of SmN, J.
Phys.: Condens. Matter **27**, 115503 (2015). * [42] C.-M. Lee, H.
Warring, S. Vezian, B. Damilano, S. Granville, M. Al Khalifoui, Y.
Cordier, H. J. Trodahl, B. J. Ruck, and F. Natali, Highly resistive
epitaxial Mg-doped GdN thin films, Appl. Phys. Lett. **106**, 022401
(2015). * [43] A. Punya, T. Cheiwchanchamnangij, A. Thiess, and Walter
R. L. Lambrecht, First-principles study of nitrogen vacancies in GdN, in
_MRS Proceedings_, Vol. 1290 (Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, UK,
2011). * [44] F. Leuenberger, A. Parge, W. Felsch, K. Fauth, and M.
Hessler, GdN thin films: Bulk and local electronic and magnetic
properties, Phys. Rev. B **72**, 014427 (2005). * [45] J. F. McNulty, B.
J. Ruck, and H. J. Trodahl, On the ferromagnetic ground state of SmN,
Phys. Rev. B **93**, 054413 (2016). * [46] C. Meyer, B. J. Ruck, J.
Zhong, S. Granville, A. R. H. Preston, G. V. M. Williams, and H. J.
Trodahl, Near-zero-moment ferromagnetism in the semiconductor SmN, Phys.
Rev. B **78**, 174406 (2008). * [47] E.-M. Anton, B. J. Ruck, C. Meyer,
F. Natali, H. Warring, F. Wilhelm, A. Rogalev, V. N. Antonov, and H. J.
Trodahl, Spin/orbit moment imbalance in the near-zero moment
ferromagnetic semiconductor SmN, Phys. Rev. B **87**, 134414 (2013). *
[48] J. F. McNulty, E.-M. Anton, B. J. Ruck, F. Natali, H. Warring, F.
Wilhelm, A. Rogalev, M. M. Soares, N. B. Brookes, and H. J. Trodahl,
Twisted phase of the orbital-dominant ferromagnet SmN in a GdN/SmN
heterostructure, Phys. Rev. B **91**, 174426 (2015). * [49] R. M. Moon
and W. C. Koehler, Magnetic properties of SmN, J. Magn. Magn. Mater.
**14**, 265 (1979). * [50] J. C. Parlebas, K. Asakura, A. Fujiwara, I.
Harada, and A. Kotani, X-ray magnetic circular dichroism at rare-earth
L23 absorption edges in various compounds and alloys, Phys. Rep.
**431**, 1 (2006). * [51] F. Natali, S. Vezian, S. Granville, B.
Damilano, H. J. Trodahl, E.-M. Anton, H. Warring, F. Semond, Y. Cordier,
S. V. Chong, and B. J. Ruck, Molecular beam epitaxy of ferromagnetic
epitaxial GdN thin films, J. Cryst. Growth **404**, 146 (2014). * [52]
A. Le Louarn, S. Vezian, F. Semond, and J. Massies, AlN buffer layer
growth for GaN epitaxy on (111) Si: Al or N first? J. Cryst. Growth
**311**, 3278 (2009). * [53] S. Granville, B. J. Ruck, F. Budde, A. Koo,
D. J. Pringle, F. Kuchler, A. R. H. Preston, D. H. Housden, N. Lund, A.
Bittar, G. V. M. Williams, and H. J. Trodahl, Semiconducting ground
state of GdN thin films, Phys. Rev. B **73**, 235335 (2006). * [54] S.
Yamanaka, K. Hotehama, and H. Kawaji, Superconductivity at 25.5 K in
electron-doped layered hafnium nitride, Nature **392**, 580 (1998). *
[55] B. W. Roberts, Survey of superconductive materials and critical
evaluation of selected properties, J. Phys. Chem. Ref. Data **5**, 581
(1976). * [56] Y. Dubi, Y. Meir, and Y. Avishai, Nature of the
superconductor-insulator transition in disordered superconductors,
Nature **449**, 876 (2007). * [57] F. Natali, B. J. Ruck, H. J. Trodahl,
D. L. Binh, S. Vezian, B. Damilano, Y. Cordier, F. Semond, and C. Meyer,
Role of magnetic polarons in ferromagnetic GdN, Phys. Rev. B **87**,
035202 (2013). * [58] L. Pietronero, S. Strassler, and C. Grimaldi,
Nonadiabatic superconductivity. I. Vertex corrections for the
electron-phonon interactions, Phys. Rev. B **52**, 10516 (1995). * [59]
S. Granville, C. Meyer, A. R. H. Preston, B. M. Ludbrook, B. J. Ruck, H.
J. Trodahl, T. R. Paudel, and W. R. L. Lambrecht, Vibrational properties
of rare-earth nitrides: Raman spectra and theory, Phys. Rev. B **79**,
054301 (2009). * [60] K. F. Garrity and D. Vanderbilt, Chern insulator
at a magnetic rocksalt interface, Phys. Rev. B **90**, 121103 (2014). *
[61] Z. Li, J. Kim, N. Kioussis, S.-Y. Ning, H. Su, T. Iitaka, T.
Tohyama, X. Yang, and J.-X. Zhang, GdN thin film: Chern insulating state
on square lattice, Phys. Rev. B **92**, 201303 (2015).
