# Oxidation state and magnetic properties of Pb2Sr2Tb1-_x_Y_x Cu3O8

U. Staub, L. Soderholm, S. Skanthakumar, and Mark R. Antonio

Chemistry Division, Argonne National Laboratory, Argonne, Illinois
60439-4831

20 March 1995

###### Abstract

L3-edge x-ray absorption, inelastic neutron scattering (INS), and
magnetic susceptibility experiments are used to characterize the
electronic properties of Tb in Pb2Sr2TbCu3O8. The x-ray absorption
results indicate that Tb is trivalent and show no evidence for strong
hybridization between Tb and the CuO2 bands. The observation of three
peaks of magnetic origin in the INS experiments is also a clear
indication of the trivalent state of Tb. These peaks are assigned to
crystalline electric-field (CEF) transitions, and their energies and
intensities are consistent with the CEF potential expected for a
trivalent rare earth in the Pb2Sr2RCu3O8 lattice. The low-energy
response in the INS spectra at low temperatures is described using the
mean-field approximation. Single crystal and polycrystalline
susceptibilities show deviations from calculations and differ from
magnetically diluted samples. These deviations are observed for
temperatures less than 120 K and we interpret this as the onset
temperature of the magnetic Tb-Tb short-range correlations. This
interpretation is supported by the temperature dependence of the
magnetic INS intensities at low energies. The onset temperature,
estimated at 120 K, is more than an order of magnitude higher than seen
in any related system, as well as much higher than the two-dimensional
long-range ordering temperature at T = 5.5 K. This unusual behavior is
understood in terms of the highly two-dimensional nature of the lattice
combined with the strongly Ising-like magnetic properties. In addition
to the Tb-Tb correlations, the susceptibility experiments on a
magnetically dilute sample indicate a weak rare-earth Cu exchange
interaction.

## I Introduction

Rare-earth-doped high-temperature superconductors exhibit a wide range
of interesting magnetic properties. The rare-earth sublattice may show
three-dimensional long-range,[1, 2] three-dimensional with finite
correlation length,[3] two-dimensional[4, 5] (2D), and hyperfine-induced
magnetic ordering.[3] In addition, some superconductors, or their parent
compounds, exhibit 2D short-range correlations well above the Neel
temperature.[6] One of the most interesting systems is Pb2Sr2TbCu3O8
with a 2D Neel temperature of _T_N = 5.5 K and short-range correlations
reported up to 10 K.[6] Short-range correlations of the rare-earth spins
well above _T_N were also reported by means of calorimetric experiments
on Pb2Sr2PrCu3O8.[7] The interplay between the rare-earth magnetism and
superconductivity remains unclear, although the superconducting
properties appear relatively uninfluenced by the presence of the local f
moments.

For a better understanding of the magnetic properties of these
materials, information on the magnetic ground-state wave function and on
the rare-earth exchange interactions are required. The rare-earth
ground-state wave function can be extracted from the measurements of
crystalline electric-field (CEF) excitations by inelastic neutron
scattering (INS). Whereas this information is already available for most
of the rare earths in the _R_Ba2Cu3O8 series,[8, 9] it is missing for R
= Tb, because this compound does not form. It has previously been
suggested that the relative stability of tetravalent or
intermediate-valent Tb could explain why TbBa2Cu3Ox does not form.[10]
However, a recent x-ray absorption and magnetization study has
determined a 3+ valence for Tb in Tb0.1Y0.9Ba2Cu3Ox, with no indication
of any significant hybridization between Tb and the CuO2 bands.[11] In
that work it was concluded that the stability of BaTbO3 during the
solid-state reaction prevents the formation of TbBa2Cu3Ox.

Some qualitative information on the exchange interaction can be obtained
from low-temperature magnetization and specific-heat measurements.[12] A
more detailed insight into the coupling mechanism requires a study of
the spin waves, which inherently contain information on the nature and
size of the magnetic coupling between R3+ ions. INS provides the most
direct information on spin waves; however, the only two systems studied
so far are the superconducting HoBa2Cu3O7,[13, 14] and the parent
compound Pr2CuO4.[15]

Pb2Sr2RCu3O8 (_R_ = rare earth) are layered materials that are
structurally complex, but basically similar to other copper oxide
systems such as the _R_Ba2Cu3Ox series or the Tl- and Bi-based cuprates.
In the Pb-based series, the R = Tb analog does form, and by replacing 50

In this work, we report x-ray absorption, INS, and magnetic
susceptibility experiments to clarify the valence and possible
hybridization of Tb. In addition, these data are used to determine the
ground-state wave functions of Tb in order to help in the development of
a better under standing of the short-range fluctuations observed well
above T_(N). The susceptibility experiments indicate an onset of
two-dimensional short-range spin correlations around 120 K, in good
agreement with the INS experiments. This temperature is more than an
order of magnitude higher than observed in any related system. In
addition, it is also an order of magnitude higher than the long-range 2D
ordering at T= 5.5 K found by neutron diffraction. [6]

## II Experiments

Polycrystalline Pb2Sr2Tb1-x YxCu3O8 samples were prepared by first
weighing out stoichiometric amounts of PbO, Tb4O7, Y2O3, CuO, CaO, and
SrCO3, followed by intimate mixing in an agate ball mill, pelletizing,
and sintering at 830 degC for 20 h. After furnace cooling to room
temperature, we checked the samples with x-ray diffraction. Milling,
pelletizing, and sintering procedures were repeated until the x-ray
diffraction pattern verified the single-phase character of the samples.
Neutron diffraction on the same samples confirmed their single-phase
nature. The single-crystal growth is explained in detail elsewhere. [21]

Tb L₃-edge (7514 eV) x-ray absorption near-edge structure (XANES) data
were collected at ambient temperature on beamline X-23A2 at the National
Synchrotron Light Source. X-23A2 is equipped with a Si(311)
double-crystal monochromator to provide good energy resolution [22]
(ΔE/E = 2.90 × 10⁻⁵) and effective harmonito rejection of the
second-order Bragg reflection. A 1 mm premonochromator vertical slit was
employed, resulting in a calculated total-energy bandwidth of 1.5 eV at
7514 eV. With this configuration, the instrumental resolution is ca. 2.8
times smaller than the natural linewidth (4.12 eV) of the Tb L₃ core
hole. [23] Hence, the Tb L₃-edge XANES is expected to be only slightly
broadened (≤ 6

Inelastic neutron scattering experiments were carried out on the
High-Resolution Medium-Energy Chopper Spectrometer (HREMCS) at the
Intense Pulsed Neutron Source (IPNS) of Argonne National Laboratory. The
incident neutron energy (E_(i)) was chosen to be either 4 or 80 meV so
that the energy resolutions at 0 and at 40 meV energy transfer are 0.17
and of 2.4 meV for E_(i)= 4 and 80 meV, respectively. The powder sample
of Pb2Sr2TbCu3O8 was enclosed in a flat aluminum container and then
attached to the cold finger of a closed-cycle refrigerator to achieve
temperatures of 20−300 K. A conventional helium cryostat was used for
the low-temperature experiments (1.7 ≤ T ≤ 20 K). The raw data have been
corrected for detector efficiency and background by standard procedures.
Neutron absorption by the sample was negligible.

The magnetic susceptibility experiments were performed on a
superconducting quantum interference device (SQUID) magnetometer over
the temperature range of 10−300 K using an applied field of 500 Oe. An ∼
1 mg single crystal was attached directly to a quartz fiber.
Measurements were made with the "long" crystallographic c axis
perpendicular and parallel to the applied field. Pellets of about 100 mg
were used for the measurements on polycrystalline samples. A
Pb2Sr2YCu3O8 sample was measured and the normalized susceptibility was
then subtracted from the Tb-containing data to isolate the magnetic
response of Tb alone. This step was necessary for the low Tb
concentrations, where the copper sublattices provide a significant
contribution to the overall measured susceptibility.

## III L₃-Edge X-ray Absorption

The measured L₃ x-ray absorption edges obtained from Tb in a variety of
standards are compared with Pb2Sr2TbCu3O8 in Fig. 1. The Tb³⁺ spectrum
of TbCl3*6H2O is composed of only one narrow peak at 7521 eV, whereas
the spectrum of Tb4O7 is composed of two much broader peaks centered at
7522 and 7530 eV, indicative of the inhomogeneously mixed-valent nature
of the sample. The Tb⁴⁺ edge of SrTbO3 is composed of at least three
unresolved transitions, the center of gravity of which is displaced to
even higher energies, at 7528 eV. These observed spectral features are
typical of those expected for trivalent, mixed-valent, and tetravalent
Tb. [25, 26] The observed peaks arise from the 2p⁶5d⁰4f⁸→2p⁵5d¹4f⁸ and
2p⁵5d⁰4f⁷ transitions for Tb³⁺ and Tb⁴⁺, respectively. [25] The peak
position in Pb2Sr2TbCu3O8 is 7521 eV, which is typical of Tb³⁺, and
there is no evidence for a second, higher-energy transition expected for
Tb⁴⁺. The peak positions, together with the absence of a second
absorption peak to higher energies demonstrate that the Tb is neither
tetravalent

Figure 1: Tb L₃-edge XANES of Pb2Sr2TbCu3O8 (PSYCO), TbCl3*6H2O, TbO7,
and SrTbO3 obtained through electron-yield detection at ambient
temperature. The first peak in TbO7 is attributed to 4f⁸Tb(III) and the
second peak to 4/f⁷ Tb(IV) final states.

nor mixed valent, but instead is essentially Tb³⁺ in Pb₂Sr₂TbCu₃O₈. The
same behavior has been observed in Y_(0.9)Tb_(0.1)Ba₂Cu₃O_(x). [11]

A close inspection of the data presented in Fig. 1 reveals that the
L₃-edge resonance of Pb₂Sr₂TbCu₃O₈ is slightly broader than in the
spectrum for TbCl₃-6H₂O. Because the L₃-absorption-edge resonance
involves a transition to the bound 5d states just below the continuum,
strong hybridization of these states may broaden the resonance. [27, 28]
However, there may be alternative explanations for the broadening,
including changes in coordination or multiple crystallographic sites for
the absorbing atom. [26] A similar broadening is found for the Tb L₃
edge in Y_(0.9)Tb_(0.1)Ba₂Cu₃O_(x). [11] There, a careful linewidth
analysis and comparison with R = Er has shown that Tb does not exhibit
significant hybridization. A similar analysis of the full width at half
maximum (FWHM) of the resonance in the data reported here reveals a
half-width of 5.7 eV. This result is to within the error the same as
that found for Tb in Y_(0.9)Tb_(0.1)Ba₂Cu₃O_(x). [11] These data provide
strong evidence that there is no significant hybridization of Tb with
the CuO₂ bands.

## IV Inelastic neutron scattering

### Results

It is well known that the crystal structure of members of the
Pb₂Sr₂RCu₃O₈ (R = rare earth) series exhibits tetragonal, orthorhombic,
or even lower symmetry. [21] However, the deviations from tetragonal
symmetry are small. Analysis of our neutron diffraction data on
Pb₂Sr₂TbCu₃O₈ indicates that the crystal symmetry is orthorhombic or
lower; however, the nearest-neighbor oxygens to the rare-earth ion still
meet the requirements of the tetragonal-site symmetry. Therefore we
assume a tetragonal-site symmetry for the CEF calculations in order to
reduce the number of parameters necessary to describe the system. This
assumption has previously been used for R = Ho and Er, [21] and for the
crystallographically similar material Bi₂Sr₂HoCu₃O₈. [29] In
tetragonal-site symmetry, the Tb³⁺ ground-state multiplet ⁷F₆ is split
into three doublets (Γ₅) and seven singlets (2Γ₁, Γ₂, 2Γ₃, and 2Γ₄). A
lower symmetry will further split the doublets to produce 13 singlets.

Figure 2 shows the magnetic excitation spectra of neutrons scattered
from Pb₂Sr₂TbCu₃O₈ at T  = 20 K and E_(i) = 80 meV. We observed three
CEF transitions located at 30, 37, and 60 meV which are labeled by A, B,
and C, respectively. The magnetic origin of these transitions is
confirmed by their decreasing intensity with increasing momentum
transfer Q of the neutrons (see Fig. 2). The observation of magnetic
transitions in this energy range provides clear evidence for trivalent
Tb, because tetravalent Tb has no orbital moment (L = 0) and therefore
the $J\!=\!\frac{\gamma}{2}$ ground-multiplet is not split by the CEF to
first-order. The low-energy INS spectra obtained at 1.5 K (well below
T_(N)) and at 20 K (well above T_(N)) are shown in Fig. 3. There are no
observable inelastic magnetic transitions at either temperature, nor is
there any additional quasielastic contribution. The only difference
between the two spectra is the large difference in the intensities of
the elastic line. For higher temperatures we observe an additional
quasielastic contribution (see Fig. 4) that increases with increasing
temperature. The additional intensity is of magnetic origin as shown by
its decreasing intensity with increasing Q. Transition assignments and a
proposed energy-level scheme are depicted in Fig. 5.

Figure 3: Temperature dependence of the elastic line taken for
Pb₂Sr₂TbCu₃O₈ with E_(i) = 4 meV and 0.07 < Q < 0.44 Å⁻¹. The line
corresponds to the fitted Gaussian function.

Figure 2: Q dependence of the energy spectra of neutrons scattered from
Pb₂Sr₂TbCu₃O₈ with E_(i) = 80 meV and T = 20 K giving rise to a (_Q_
)=2.5 Å (top) and (_Q_ ) =8.9 Å⁻¹ (bottom) is determined at 37 meV
energy transfer. The peak observed in the upper spectrum at about 15 meV
is attributed to a phonon.

### Crystal-field calculations

Modeling of the CEF is carried out using standard techniques. The
calculated transition energies and intensities are obtained via
diagonalization of a Hamiltonian that includes the free-ion (FI)
interactions, denoted by ${\bf H}_{\rm el}$ and ${\bf H}_{\rm SO}$,
i.e.,

$${\bf H} = {\bf H}_{\rm el} + {\bf H}_{\rm SO} + {\bf H}_{\rm CEF}$$

with

$${\bf H}_{\rm CEF} = \sum\limits_{n = 1}^{3} \sum\limits_{m = 0}^{n} B_{2m}^{2n}(C_{2m}^{2n} + C_{-2m}^{2n})\ ,$$

using the scheme of intermediate coupling and J mixing by employing a
tensor operator technique.[30] The C_(2m)^(2n) are spherical tensor
operators and the B_(2m)^(2n) denote the CEF parameters. The Hamiltonian
is described in more detail elsewhere.[31] The free-ion parameters were
taken from those of Tb in LaF₃,[33] The tetragonal-site symmetry
requires the refinement of five independent CEF parameters, namely, B₀²,
B₀⁴, B₄⁴, B₀⁶ and B₄⁶. We note here that these ratios and the CEF
parameters are given in the Wyborne notation as used by Carnall _et
al.[32]_

The three observed magnetic transitions lie at slightly lower energies
than expected when a set of CEF parameters are extrapolated from those
of Pb₂Sr₂HoCu₃O₈.[19] In addition to the narrow magnetic transitions, we
also find strong quasielastic magnetic intensity at higher temperatures
which we assign to a transition with the Γ₄→Γ₃ quasidoublet. We make
this assignment based on the Lorentzian line shape and the Q dependence
of the quasielastic intensity. The three transition energies and their
two corresponding intensity ratios yield five observables, which are not
sufficient for a reliable determination of the five independent CEF
parameters necessary for tetragonal-site symmetry. We therefore used a
model with only three independent CEF parameters B₀², B₀⁴, and B₀⁶, and
correlate the remaining two CEF parameters (B₄⁴ and B₄⁶) using the
geometrical relations

Figure 4: Detailed-balance-corrected temperature dependence of the
energy spectra from Pb₂Sr₂TbCu₃O₈ focused on the quasielastic
contribution (E_(i)= 4 meV and 0.07 <Q< 0.44 Å⁻¹). The solid line
corresponds to the total fit, the broken line to the quasielastic
(Lorentzian), and the dotted line to the elastic (Gaussian)
contribution.

Figure 5: Energy-level scheme of Tb³⁺ in Pb₂Sr₂TbCu₃O₈ calculated from
the CEF parameters for the paramagnetic state (left) and the ordered
state (right). The arrows denote the observed transitions and
H${}_{\rm FI}$, H${}_{\rm CEF}$, and H${}_{\rm MF}$ are explained in the
text.

B_(2m)^(2n) = B₀^(2n)γ_(2n)^(2m)/γ_(2n)⁰ .

The coordination factors γ_(2n)^(2m), as defined by Hutchings,33 were
calculated from the nearest-neighbor oxygen polyhedron determined by
neutron diffraction:34

γ₄⁴/γ₄⁰ = −0.5 ,

γ₆⁴/γ₆⁰ = 2.79 .

Because all the near neighbors are equidistant superposition modeling
leads to the same ratios.35 This modeling is expected to produce a good
approximation because it has been shown repeatedly that the CEF
interaction in high-T_(c) perovskite compounds is mainly governed by the
charge distribution of the nearest-neighboring oxygen shell.36,37 The
B₀^(2n) extrapolated from Pb2Sr2HoCu3O8 (Ref. 19) were chosen as
starting values and reproduced the characteristic features of the
observed energy spectra quite well.

A least-squares refinement procedure was applied to the energies and the
intensity ratios of the observed CEF transitions. It converged to the
following parameters:

$$B_{0}^{2} = 60 \pm 2\ {\rm meV}\ ,$$

$$B_{0}^{4} = - 235 \pm 5\ {\rm meV}\ ,$$

$$B_{0}^{6} = 61.5 \pm 3\ {\rm meV}\ .$$

We note that these CEF parameters correspond to an axis system that has
been rotated 45deg around c, so that the x and y axes in this system are
rotated 45deg with respect to the crystallographic a and b axes. The z
axis corresponds to the crystallographic c axis. The energies and the
transition probabilities are listed in Table 1 and are compared with the
observed energies. They are consistent with the energy-level scheme
shown in Fig. 5. One of the remarkable features of this proposed level
scheme is that the Γ₄ ground state and the Γ₃ first excited state are
separated in energy by only 7 μeV. The strongest transition (_B_) is
broader than the instrumental resolution indicating unresolved splitting
of the Γ₅⁽²⁾ doublet. This broadening probably originates from
deviations of the true site symmetry from the tetragonal one chosen for
our fitting. We do not have enough spectroscopic information to lower
the symmetry of our CEF Hamiltonian to orthorhombic because this would
add four more parameters. We cannot use the modeling described above to
constrain the orthorhombic parameters, because the nearest-neighbor
oxygen polyhedra have strictly tetragonal symmetry. However, the most
important magnetic properties exhibited by the Tb sublattice are mainly
influenced by the two lowest singlet states, which depend only weakly on
the CEF parameters in the vicinity of the determined parameters. In
addition, the CEF calculations show that the quasielastic intensity
observed at elevated temperatures cannot be explained by excited CEF
transitions between higher-lying states.

### Molecular-field approximation

The CEF calculation is a good approximation, even for weakly interacting
ions in the paramagnetic state. However, it has been previously reported
that Tb moments are ordered antiferromagnetically at temperatures below
5.5 K. This ordering may lead to discrepancies between the observed
low-energy spectra and the CEF calculations at low temperatures. In
contrast to the 200 K data we do not observe the Γ₄ → Γ₃ transition at
1.5 K. Even when the expected energy of a CEF transition is too low in
energy to observe directly, the half-width of the transition, which is
broadened by relaxation, exchange, and hybridization effects, should
give rise to an observable broadening of the elastic line. The full
width at half maximum of the elastic line is 0.175±0.005 meV and is
limited by the instrumental resolution for temperatures below 20 K.
Therefore such a broadening is not observed. We can calculate the
influence of the 2D magnetic long-range ordering on the CEF splitting at
1.5 K by adding a mean-field term
$${\bf H}_{\rm MF} = \lambda \langle J \rangle^{\rm z}$$

to our Hamiltonian presented in Eq. (1a). $\langle J \rangle^{\rm z}$
corresponds to the magnitude and orientation of the ordered magnetic
moment, ${\bf J}^{\rm z}$ is the longitudinal component of the spin
operator, and λ is the mean-field (MF) parameter, which is defined as

$$\chi_{0}^{\rm zz}(T_{N})^{-1} = \lambda\ ,$$

where T_(N) is the 2D Neel temperature of 5.5 K and $\chi_{0}^{\rm zz}$
is the longitudinal component of the calculated single-ion
susceptibility. Using this equation, we obtain a molecular-field
parameter of 6.4 μeV. This value is slightly larger than the parameter
derived for Ho³⁺ in HoBa₂Cu₃O₇, which was derived from the zero-field
magnetization.[3] This means that the relatively high Neel temperature
of 5.5 K can be understood with the same strength of the exchange
interaction (λ) as in the RBa₂Cu₃O₇ system, supporting our conclusion
that there is no significant hybridization between the Tb and the CuO₂
bands. Using this approximation, we have calculated the Tb³⁺ saturation
moment and arrived at a value of $\mu_{\rm sat}$ = 8.40${}_{\rm zz}$ at
1.5 K. This ordered moment is higher than the (7.43±0.02)μ_(B) obtained
by powder neutron diffraction.[6] An overestimation of the calculated
moment could be explained by the fact that the MF approximation is
inadequate in the region where spin fluctuations are strong. We know
that this system favors a 2D Ising type of interaction, and therefore
the critical exponent for the temperature dependence of the ordered
moment is expected to behave differently. The calculated energy
splitting of the quasidoublet in the MF approximation is 0.64 meV at 1.5
K, and the transition strength is too small to be seen experimentally
(see Table I).

### Tb spin correlations

A striking difference between the two spectra taken at 1.5 and 20 K is
the intensity of the elastic line (Fig. 3). For higher temperatures we
observe an additional quasi-elastic contribution that increases with
increasing temperature (Fig. 4) contrary to expectations. To examine
this unusual temperature dependence of the elastic (Gaussian line shape)
and quasielastic (Lorentzian line shape) magnetic intensities, we fitted
them with a Gaussian and a Lorentzian function convolved with the
Gaussian resolution function of the spectrometer. In this analysis, we
include only the low-angle detectors, thereby limiting the momentum
transfers to 0.07 < Q < 0.44 A⁻¹. This Q range is far below the first
magnetic 2D-like Bragg reflection at Q = 1.15 A ⁻¹
($\frac{1}{2}$,$\frac{1}{2}$; α ≈ b ≈ 3.85 A; following the notation
used by Wu _et al.[6]_). Below 20 K, only the elastic component
survives. We found that the elastic component remains resolution limited
over the entire temperature range from 1.5 to 200 K. The integrated
intensities of the elastic and quasielastic lines are plotted as a
function of temperature in Fig. 6. The temperature dependence of the
full width at half maximum is shown in Fig. 7.

At 1.5 K, in the "long-range"-ordered regime, the integrated elastic
intensity corresponds to solely coherent and incoherent nuclear
scattering. For higher temperatures (_T_ ≥ 5 K), an additional magnetic
contribution is observed, and is attributed to the spreading out of the
magnetic intensity in reciprocal space as a result of a decreasing
correlation length of the 2D ordered moments. In the paramagnetic
region, at 200 K, the observed magnetic intensity arises solely from the
CEF transition between the two lowest states. It is represented by the
magnetic quasielastic contribution shown in Fig. 6. Assuming no
short-range correlation at T = 200 K, the integrated Gaussian intensity
corresponds to the nuclear incoherent scattering alone. 100 K represents
an intermediate case, where the extra intensity of the
resolution-limited elastic line must be of magnetic origin. This view is
supported by the fact that the quasielastic intensity at 100 K is
reduced from the 200 K level so that the overall sum of both intensities
remains constant.

In order to understand the relative intensity of the elastic and
quasielastic components, we calculated the transi

Figure 6: Temperature dependence of the integrated elastic (open
circles) and quasielastic intensity (full circles) for 0.07 < Q < 0.44
Å⁻¹ and E_(i) = 4 meV. The solid lines are guides to the eyes. The
dashed line represents the elastic nuclear incoherent scattering
background.

Figure 7: Temperature dependence of the full width at half maximum of
the quasielastic INS magnetic contribution determined for Pb₂Sr₂TbCu₃O₈.

intensities within the Γ₄ ground state and between the Γ₄ and the Γ₃
states at selected values of g_(j)⟨J⟩ within the framework of the MF
approximation. The results are listed in Table 2. Comparing the
experiment with the calculated transition strengths, we can define three
different regions. The observation for T ≤ 20 K is well represented by
the MF approximation, with a large value of g_(j)⟨J⟩. At 100 K a
short-range-ordered moment of g_(j)⟨J⟩ = 0.1μ_(B) describes well the
observed intensities and for T ≥ 200 K the system is well represented by
the pure paramagnetic state. We wish to note that the intensity of the
Gaussian contribution reflects the size of the magnetic moment in the
region of the spin correlations.

## V Paramagnetic Susceptibility

Magnetic susceptibility experiments were carried out on
Pb₂Sr₂Tb_(1 − x)Y_(x)Cu₃O₈ (x = 0, 0.9, 0.95, and 0.98). The magnetic
susceptibilities obtained from Pb₂Sr₂TbCu₃O₈ and the magnetically dilute
Pb₂Sr₂Y_(0.95)Tb_(0.05)Cu₃O₈ are shown in Fig. 8. The data can be fitted
using the Curie-Weiss law with an added temperature-independent
component, $\chi\!=\!C/(T\!-\!\Theta)\!+\!\chi_{\rm TIP}$. The Curie
constant (C) is related to the effective moment by
$\mu_{\rm eff}\!\!=\!(8C)^{1/2}$; Θ is the Weiss constant, which is
related either to changing populations in low-lying crystal-field
states, or to the effect of spin-spin interactions between the magnetic
ions. The $\chi_{\rm TIP}$ term represents contributions from either the
Pauli or Van Vleck susceptibilities. The values obtained from fitting
the experimental data are listed in Table 3.

The different contributions to the measured susceptibilities can be at
least partially understood by comparing the measured susceptibility with
that calculated using the results from our INS experiments. We have used
our eigenfunctions and energies determined from the CEF analysis to
calculate the paramagnetic susceptibility using

$$\chi_{0}^{\alpha\alpha}\!=\!\frac{\mu_{B}^{2}}{k_{B}T}\sum_{\begin{array}{c} m,n\\ E_{m}\!=\!E_{n}\end{array}}|\langle\,n|{\bf L}^{\alpha}\!+\!2{\bf S}^{\alpha}|m\, \rangle|^{2}\rho_{n}$$

$$+2\mu_{B}^{2}\sum_{\begin{array}{c}m,n\\ E_{m}\!\neq\!E_{n}\end{array}}\frac{|\langle\,n|{\bf L}^{\alpha}\!+\!2{\bf S}^{ \alpha}|m\,\rangle|^{2}}{E_{m}\!-\!E_{n}}\rho_{n}\ ,$$

where α = x, y corresponds to the crystal-field axis in tetragonal
symmetry, as discussed earlier.
$|\langle\,n|{\bf L}^{\alpha}\!+\!2{\bf S}^{\alpha}|m\,\rangle|^{2}$
corresponds to the transition probabilities, E_(n) to the energies of
the states, and ρ_(n) is the population factor at a defined temperature.
Because of the large energy separation between the quasidoublet and the
higher-lying states (> 30 meV) the quasidoublet transition strength
dominates the susceptibility at moderate temperatures. The results of
this calculation, corrected for sam

  --------------- ------ -------
   g_(j)⟨J⟩ (μB)    E     D^(⋆)
         0          0     74.4
       0.05        16.9   57.4
        0.1        40.1   34.2
        0.3        67.9    6.4
        0.5        70.8    2.4
         1         73.7    0.6
  --------------- ------ -------

Table 2: Calculated transition strengths in the MF approximation for
selected values of moments g_(j)⟨J⟩.
($E\!=\!|\langle\,\Gamma_{4}|{\bf L}\!+\!2{\bf S}|\Gamma_{4}^{\dagger}\rangle|^{2}$
and
$D^{\star}\!=\!|\langle\,\Gamma_{3}^{\dagger}|{\bf L}\!+\!2{\bf S}|\Gamma_{4}^{ \dagger}\rangle|^{2}$
correspond to the transitions labeled in Fig. 5.)

Figure 8: Observed and calculated (line) polycrystalline
susceptibilities versus temperature of Pb₂Sr₂TbCu₃O₈ (open circles) and
Pb₂Sr₂Y_(0.95)Tb_(0.05)Cu₃O₈ (full circles). Susceptibility is
normalized per mole Tb.

ple diamagnetism, are compared with the experimentally determined
susceptibilities in Fig. 8. In addition, the results of a fit of the
calculated susceptibility, using the same modified Curie law as used for
the experimental data, are included in Table 3. In Fig. 9 we compare the
single-crystal susceptibilities of Tb in Pb2Sr2TbCu3O8 with the
calculation.

The observed single-crystal susceptibilities exhibit a strong anisotropy
between the in-plane χ^(↓) and out-of-plane χ^(↓) components, which is
well reproduced by the calculation. The much stronger χ^(↓) component
indicates the importance for the Ising type of rare-earth exchange
interaction in this system. The calculations show also that this
anisotropy originates from the crystalline electric field imposed by the
ligands. The observed χ^(↓) deviates considerably from the calculation
at temperatures below about 120 K, similarly to the powder data. The
upturn in the observed χ^(↓) around 30 K can be understood in terms of
an additional transverse component in the longitudinal transition
between the two lowest CEF states.

It can be seen that there is relatively good agreement between
calculated susceptibility and the powder data from both Tb
concentrations at temperatures higher than about 150 K. The effective
moment, determined from the temperature dependence, is somewhat lower in
the calculation, and may reflect a local-moment contribution to the
susceptibility from the CuO sublattice. For temperatures less than 120
K, the calculations represent well the 5

The Θ value determined from the calculated susceptibility is clearly
outside the experimental error of the Θ’s derived from the measured
susceptibilities. The large difference between the observed Θ’s from the
pure and diluted samples is understood as reflecting the decrease in
spin correlations and not a crystal-field effect because the calculated
susceptibility has a negligible Θ value. Because of the strong dilution
(see Table 3 for calculated percentages of single ions and dimers) we do
not expect any long-range interaction between the Tb spins. We suggest
that the Θ observed for the dilute samples reflects the strength of the
interaction between the rare-earth and the Cu spins. This is expected to
be a weak effect because we do not see evidence in the Tb L₃-edge data
for strong Tb hybridization. The distinctly higher Θ value of the 10

## VI Discussion

Our INS and magnetic susceptibility data show that there are very strong
Tb-Tb short-range correlations in Pb2Sr2TbCu3O8 that persist to
temperatures up to at least 120 K, much higher than the reported Neel
temperature of 5.5 K. This system exhibits these correlations up to such
high temperatures for several reasons. The very strong magnetic
anisotropy exhibited by the Tb³⁺ ions couples with the two-dimensional
crystalline structure. The 2D ordering at low temperatures can be
understood by a relatively strong 2D exchange interaction coupled with a
weak dipole interaction parallel to the c axis that partly overcomes the
thermal motion of the spins below 5.5 K. The 3D magnetic structure with
finite correlation length can be seen in the powder neutron diffraction
pattern obtained at T  = 1.5 K, where the broad, asymmetric magnetic
reflections ($\frac{1}{2}$,$\frac{1}{2}$,2) and
($\frac{1}{2}$,$\frac{1}{2}$,3) are observed.[6] A weak dipole
interaction ferromagnetically couples the Tb moments, which lie parallel
to c, along this direction. The two lowest CEF states have the correct
symmetry to be correlated strongly by a relatively small, Ising-type
interaction. This, together with J_(↓) > > J_(∥), gives rise to the
unusual magnetic properties exhibited by Tb in this system. Additional
experimental information about the exchange interactions in these
materials would further the understanding of the unusually high onset
temperature for the spin correlations. HoBa2Cu3O7 is the only related
system in which the exchange parameters have been determined.[13, 14] It
was found that the Ising-like exchange, which is defined as

$${\bf H}\!=\!-\frac{1}{2}\sum_{i>j}J_{i,j}^{\alpha}J_{i}^{\alpha}J_{j}^{\alpha}\ ,$$
(5)

is relatively strong with J_(a)^(α)  =  − 6.9μeV,[14] even though this
system does not favor an Ising type of interaction because of the
symmetry of the two lowest CEF states. This result further supports our
argument that the Ising type of interaction is important in the system
under investigation here.

The broadening of the quasielastic contribution, as shown in Fig. 7,
reflects the effect of temperature on the

Figure 9: Observed and calculated (line) single-crystal susceptibilities
of Pb3Sr2TbCu3O8 (open squares ∥ c, full squares ∥ a, b).

CEF transition within the quasidoublet ground state and contains
information about the relaxation mechanism. The half-width of the CEF
transitions is directly proportional to the imaginary part of the spin
susceptibility determined by the copper spins.[4] Osborn and
Goremychkin[42] found an opening of an energy gap above the
superconducting transition temperature by measuring the temperature
dependence of the CEF half-width in TmBa₂Cu₃O₇. Because Pb₂Sr₂TbCu₃O₈ is
an insulator (i.e., no carriers present) the relaxation mechanism is
presumably dominated by the interaction with the copper spins. The
temperature dependence of the full width at half maximum shown in Fig. 7
is constant at low temperatures, and begins to increase above about 120
K. (We note that the distinctly smaller intensities at low temperatures
give rise to bigger error bars for the experimentally observed
half-widths.) As it was shown by Becker, Fulde, and Keller[41] the
temperature dependence of the quasi-elastic contribution should be
proportional to T (for a Fermi liquid). Our experimental results on the
insulating Pb₂Sr₂TbCu₃O₈ do not show a linear behavior and further work
on the interaction between the rare-earth and the ordered copper spins
has to be performed for an accurate description of the temperature
dependence in this system.

Despite the evidence presented here of strong Tb-Tb correlations, the
superconducting properties of Ca-doped Pb₂Sr₂Tb_(0.5)Ca_(0.5)CuO₈,[43,
44] or vacancy-doped Pb₂Sr₂Tb_(1 − x)CuO₈,[45] appear indistinguishable
from the other superconducting members of these series. This is a
further indication that the energetics of the correlations are weak. The
Tb-Tb correlations are observable to such high temperatures in this
system because it favorably combines the very two-dimensional structure
with an Ising-like spin system.

## VII Conclusions

**We have analyzed L₃-edge x-ray absorption near-edge structure,
inelastic neutron scattering, and susceptibility data obtained from the
high-T_(c) parent compound Pb₂Sr₂TbCu₃O₈. All experiments are well
understood in terms of Tb³⁺ with no significant hybridization, similarly
to the results of Tb doped in YBa₂Cu₃O_(x).[11] The CEF parameters have
been determined and we were able to describe the low-energy response in
the INS spectra within the mean-field approximation. The INS and the
susceptibility experiments both show evidence of Tb-Tb short-range
correlations at temperatures above 100 K, which is more than an order of
magnitude higher than the 2D magnetic ordering previously observed at
5.5 K. The susceptibility experiments on a magnetically dilute sample
indicate a weak rare-earth-Cu exchange interaction. The very unusual
magnetic behavior is attributed to the combination of a two-dimensional
lattice and the very strongly anisotropic, Ising type of exchange
interaction in this particular system. Despite these apparent Tb-Tb and
Tb-CuO exchange interactions, the superconducting behaviors observed for
the doped Tb/Ca samples and the Tb-deficient samples
Pb₂Sr₂Tb_(1 − x)Cu₃O₈ are not anomalous when compared to other R in the
same series.**

###### Acknowledgements.

The authors wish to thank J. Simon Xue for loan of the single crystal,
U. Welp (ANL) for help with the SQUID measurements, J. Woicik (NIST) for
assistance on X-23A2 at NSLS, L. R. Morss (ANL) for providing the Tb⁴⁺
standard, and Farrel Lytle (The EXAFS Co.) for helpful discussion. This
work has benefited from the use of the Intense Pulse Neutron Source at
Argonne National Laboratory, and financial support by DOE-Basic Energy
Sciences-Chemical Sciences, all under Contract No. W-31-109-ENG-38. The
Swiss National Science Foundation is gratefully acknowledged. The
research was carried out, in part, at the National Synchrotron Light
Source, which is supported by the U.S. Department of Energy, Division of
Material Sciences and Division of Chemical Sciences.

## References

* [1] J. W. Lynn, in _High Temperature Superconductivity_, edited by J.
W. Lynn (Springer, Berlin, 1990), p. 268. * [2] B. Roessli, P.
Allenspach, P. Fischer, J. Mesot, U. Staub, H. Maletta, P. Bruesch, C.
Ritter, and A. W. Hewat, Physica C **180&181**, 396 (1992). * [3] B.
Roessli, P. Fischer, U. Staub, M. Zolliker, and A. Furrer, Eur. Phys.
Lett. **23**, 511 (1993). * [4] W. Lynn, J. Alloys Compounds **181**,
419 (1992). * [5] B. Roessli, P. Fischer, M. Zolliker, P. Allenspach, J.
Mesot, U. Staub, A. Furrer, E. Kaldis, B. Bucher, J. Karpinski, E.
Jilek, and H. Mutka, Z. Phys. B **91**, 149 (1993). * [6] S. Y. Wu, W.
T. Hsieh, W.-H. Li, K. C. Lee, J. W. Lynn, and H. D. Yang, J. Appl.
Phys. **75**, 7124 (1994). * [7] J. H. Shieh, H. C. Ku, and J. C. Ho,
Phys. Rev. B **50**, 3288 (1994). * [8] U. Staub, J. Mesot, M.
Guillaume, P. Allenspach, A. Furrer, H. Mutka, Z. Bowden, and A. D.
Taylor, Phys. Rev. B **50**, 4068 (1994). * [9] L. Soderholm, C.-K.
Loong, and S. Kern, Phys. Rev. B **45**, 10 062 (1992). * [10] G. Cao,
J. W. O’Reilly, J. E. Crow, R. J. Kennedy, and D. H. Nichols, J. Appl.
Phys. **75**, 6328 (1994). * [11] U. Staub, M. R. Antonio, L. Soderholm,
M. Guillaume, W. Henggeler, and A. Furrer, Phys. Rev. B **50**, 7085
(1994). * [12] K. N. Yang, J. M. Ferraira, B. W. Lee, B. M. Maple, W. H.
Li, J. W. Lynn, and R. W. Erwin, Phys. Rev. B **40**, 10 963 (1989). *
[13] U. Staub, F. Fauth, M. Guillaume, J. Mesot, A. Furrer, P. Dosanjh,
and H. Zhou, Eur. Phys. Lett. **21,** 845 (1993). * [14] U. Staub,
F.auth, M. Guillaume, J. Mesot, A. Furrer, P. Dosanjh, H. Zhou, and P.
Vorderwisch, J. Appl. Phys. **75**, 6334 (1994).

* (15) I. W. Sumarlin, J. W. Lynn, T. Chattopadhyay, S. N. Barilo, and
D. I. Zhignunov, Physica C **219**, 195 (1994). * (16) C. R. Shih, T. H.
Meen, Y. C. Chen, and H. D. Yang, Phys. Rev. B **50**, 9619 (1994). *
(17) K. W. Liaw, T. H. Meen, Y. C. Chen, W. H. Lee, and H. D. Yang, Jpn.
J. Appl. Phys. Lett. **32**, L1225 (1993). * (18) R. Wegerer, C.
Thomsen, T. Ruf, E. Schonherr, M. Cardona, M. Reedyk, J. S. Xue, J. E.
Greedan, and A. Furrer, Phys. Rev. B **48**, 6413 (1993). * (19) L.
Soderholm, C.-K. Loong, J. S. Xue, J. P. Hammonds, J. E. Greedan, and M.
Maric, J. Appl. Phys. **73**, 6314 (1993). * (20) L. Soderholm, C.-K.
Loong, U. Staub, S. Skanthaklumar, J. S. Xue, J. P. Hammonds, J. E.
Greedan, and M. Maric, Physica C **246**, 11 (1995). * (21) J. S. Xue,
M. Reedyk, A. Dabbowska, J. E. Greedan, and C. H. Chen, J. Cryst. Growth
**113**, 371 (1991). * (22) T. Matsushita and H. Hashizume, in _Handbook
on Synchrotron Radiation_, edited by E. E. Koch (North-Holland,
Amsterdam, 1983), Vol. 1A, p. 261. * (23) M. O. Krause and J. H. Oliver,
J. Phys. Chem. Ref. Data **8**, 329 (1979). * (24) F. W. Lytle, in
_Applications of Synchrotron Radiation,_ edited by H. Winick, D. Xian,
M. H. Ye, and T. Huang (Gordon and Breach, New York, 1989), Vol. 4, p.
135. * (25) M. Gassnier, G. Schiffmacher, L. Albert, P. E. Caro, H.
Dexpert, J. M. Esteva, C. Blancard, and R. C. Karnatak, J. Less-Common
Met. **156**, 59 (1989). * (26) J. Rohler, in _Handbook on the Physics
and Chemistry of Rare Earths,_ edited by K. A. Gschneider, Jr., L.
Eyring, and S. Hufner (North-Holland, Amsterdam, 1987), Vol. 10, p.
453. * (27) O. Strebel, P. Sladeczek, M. Asensio, C. Laubschat, A.
Kolodziezky, R. Miranda, and G. Kaindl, Physica C **162-164**, 1331
(1989). * (28) F. W. Lytle, Ber. Bunsenges. Phys. Chem. **91**, 1251
(1987). * (29) U. Staub, P. Allenspach, J. Mesot, A. Furrer, R. Muller,
T. Schweizer, L. J. Gauckler, H. Blank, and H. Mutka, Z. Phys. B **85**,
35 (1991). * (30) B. R. Judd, _Operator Techniques in Atomic
Spectroscopy_ (McGraw-Hill, New York, 1963). * (31) J. Mesot, P.
Allenspach, U. Staub, A. Furrer, H. Mutka, R. Osborn, and A. Taylor,
Phys. Rev. B **47**, 6027 (1993). * (32) W. T. Carnall, G. L. Goodman,
K. Rajnak, and R. S. Rana, J. Chem. Phys. **90**, 3443 (1989). * (33) M.
T. Hutchings, in _Solid State Physics: Advances in Research and
Applications_, edited by F. Seitz and D. Turnbull (Academic, New York,
1964), Vol. 16, p. 227. * (34) S. Skanthakumar, L. Soderholm, and U.
Staub (unpublished). * (35) D. J. Newman, Adv. Phys. **20**, 197
(1971). * (36) A. Furrer, P. Bruesch, and P. Unternahrer, Phys. Rev. B
**38**, 4616 (1988). * (37) V. Nekvasil, Solid State Commun. **65**,
1103 (1988). * (38) V. Staub and L. Soderholm (unpublished). * (39) M.
Guillaume, U. Staub, F. Fauth, J. Mesot, A. Furrer, and C. J. Carlile,
Physica C **223**, 333 (1994). * (40) I. N. Kurkin, I. K. Salikhov, L.
L. Sedov, M. A. Teplov, and R. S. Zdanov, Zh. Eksp. Teor. Fiz. **103**,
1342 (1993) [Sov. Phys. JETP **76**, 657 (1993)]. * (41) K. W. Becker,
P. Fulde, and J. Keller, Z. Phys. B **28**, 9 (1977). * (42) R. Osborn
and E. Goremychkin, Physica C **185-189**, 1179 (1991). * (43) L. F.
Schneemeyer, R. J. Cava, A. C. W. P. James, P. Marsch, T. Siegrist, J.
V. Waszczak, J. J. Krajewski, W. P. Peck, Jr., R. L. Opila, S. H.
Glarum, J. H. Marshall, R. Hull, and J. Bonar, Chem. Mater. **1**, 548
(1989). * (45) S. Skanthakumar (unpublished). * (46) J. Simon Xue, Ph.D.
dissertation, McMaster University, Hamilton, Canada, 1992. * (47) G. F.
Koster, _Space Groups and Their Representations_ (Academic, New York,
1957).
