Thermoelectric power of charge-neutral Nd1-2xCa_x_M_xBa2Cu3O7-_d_ (_M_ =
Th and Pr): Evidence for different types of localization

S. R. Ghorbani, M. Andersson, and O. Rapp

Solid State Physics, Department of Microelectronics and Information
Technology, KTH-229, Stockholm-Kista, SE 164 40, Sweden

200213 April 20022 September 20023 April 20022 September 20023 April
20022 September 2002

###### Abstract

The superconducting T_(c) of Nd1-2xCa_M_xBa2Cu3O7-_d_ (_M_ = Th or Pr)
is strongly depressed with increasing doping concentration in spite of
the fact that these dopings are nominally charge neutral for small x. We
have inquired into the reasons for this behavior by studies of the
thermoelectric power S in sintered samples with x up to 0.1 and for
temperatures from T_(c) up to room temperature. _S_(_x,T_) was analyzed
in terms of two different semiempirical models, which assume the
existence of a narrow electron band. In both models and for both dopings
the bands broaden with increasing x and the tendency for localization
increases. For Ca-Th doping this can be explained by weak electronic
disorder. For Ca-Pr doping, the increase of electronic disorder is
weaker, and the results indicate that charge localization in addition is
important.

pacs: DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.66.104519 PACS number(s): 74.62.Dh,
72.15.Jf, 74.25.Fy, 74.72.Bk

## I Introduction

The thermoelectric power (_S_) is highly sensitive to details of the
electrical transport mechanism, and measurements of S appear to be a
fruitful way of understanding the nature of the carriers and charge
transport in high-_T__c_ superconductors and related compounds. This is
reflected in a large number of investigations of different alloy
systems, such as La2-xSr_x_CuO4,1,2 Y-123,3-10 Bi-based materials,11-14
and Tl- and Hg-based compounds.15-18 These studies have revealed trends
for the magnitude of S and for the temperature and doping concentration
dependence. For instance, one important result is the useful empirical
relation between the magnitude of S at room temperature and the hole
concentration p in the planes.15 Furthermore, for semiconducting or
insulating materials with low hole concentration, S is positive and
large, and decreases with increasing p. For metallic samples, on the
other hand, S is small and has a characteristic behavior for both
underdoped and optimally doped samples at temperatures above the
superconducting transition temperature T_(c). In these materials S first
rises with increasing temperature towards a maximum at _T_max and then
decreases almost linearly up to at least room temperature. Both S and
_T_max decrease with increasing p in this region. For overdoped samples
with larger p, S is negative. Variations in the temperature dependence
of S can also be a simple way to distinguish plane and chain
contributions to the transport properties.8-10,15

An interesting type of doping in 123 compounds is charge-neutral
substitution on the Y site. The parabolic variation of T_(c) with
varying charge concentration is suppressed in this case, and T_(c)
varies linearly with doping concentration. In spite of the preserved
structure and small changes in lattice parameters, the effect on T_(c)
of such dopings can be remarkably strong. One example is
Nd1-2xCa_M_xBa2Cu3O7-_d_ where -_dT__c_/_dx_ is in the region around 200
K for M = Pr or Th.19,20 Charge-neutral dopings and a Pr 4+ valence at
low doping concentrations were supported by results from neutron
diffraction, e.g., the concentration dependence of the Cu-plane
distance, in addition to the linear depression of T_(c). Yet there are
several distinct differences between Ca-Pr and Ca-Th doping. The
concentration dependences of some bond valence sums (BVS) are different,
indicating small differences in charge transfers,19,20 and the muon spin
relaxation rates also show different concentration dependences.21
Furthermore, the normal-state electrical resistivity r increases
strongly with Ca-Th doping, suggesting a disorder-induced depression of
T_(c), while r increases slowly with Ca-Pr doping, in spite of the
similarly depressed T_(c).22 These observations are not well understood.

The starting point for the present paper is the question whether the
thermoelectric power can contribute to understanding similarities and
differences between these charge-neutral dopings. S as a function of T
was measured for samples of Nd1-2xCa_M_xBa2Cu3O7-_d_ (_M_ = Pr,Th) and
analyzed in two different semiempirical two-band models. Localization
increases for both dopings as evidenced in one model by the displacement
of the Fermi energy towards the localized part of the band and in the
other model by the decrease of the ratio of the conductivity bandwidth
to the total bandwidth. For Ca-Th doping the results reinforce the
picture of a disorder-driven localization, while for Ca-Pr this effect
is weaker and charge localization appears to give an important
contribution.

## II Sample preparation and experimental details

Samples of Nd1-2xCa_M_xBa2Cu3O7-_d_ with x = 0, 0.025, 0.05, and 0.10
were prepared by standard solid-state methods. Starting materials were
high-purity Nd2O3, BaCO3, CuO, CaCO3, and Pr6O11. The samples were
pressed into pellets and calcined in air at 900, 920, and 920 degC,
respectively, with intermediate grindings. Annealing was then performed
in flowing oxygen at 460 degC for 3 days, and the temperature was
finally decreased to room temperature at a slow rate of 12 degC/In. For
the Nd1-2xCa_Th_Ba2Cu3O7-_d_ series, samples with x = 0, 0.015, 0.03,
0.05, and 0.1 were previously prepared in a similar fashion.20 After
reannealing at 460 degC for 3 days followed by a similar slow cooling,
these samples were used for the present measurements of the thermopower.

Neutron and x-ray diffraction have been made previously on the present
Ca-Th samples and on similar Ca-Pr-doped samples.[19, 20] In particular,
Rietveld refinements of the neutron diffraction data confirmed that the
doping elements entered fully the Nd sites. We performed x-ray powder
diffraction on the presently made Ca-Pr-doped samples to check the phase
purity. In a sensitive Guinier-Hagg focusing camera using Cu Kα
radiation with Si as internal standard, and with the photographs
evaluated in a microdensitometer system,[23] no impurity reflections
were observed and all lines could be indexed in the orthorhombic space
group (_Pmmm_). Similar results were obtained previously for the
Ca-Th-doped samples, except at x = 0.1, where a few weak impurity lines
were observed.[20] This indicates that the solubility limit for Ca-Th
doping in the orthorhombic phase of Nd-123 is somewhat below x = 0.1.
This will also be apparent in the deviating trends of some properties at
this concentration as discussed below.

As a further sample characterization, T_(c) was measured resistively for
the samples. The results were similar to previous findings.[22] The
transition widths ΔT_(c) estimated from 90

Thermoelectric power measurements were made in a temperature interval up
to room temperature on bars cut from the sintered pellets. Dimensions
were typically 0.5× 2.5 × 11 mm³. Small reversible temperature gradients
up to 1.5 K were used in these measurements.

## III Results and Analyses

### Experimental results

Results for the temperature dependence of the thermoelectric power are
shown in Fig. 1(a) for Ca-Pr-doped samples and in Fig. 1(b) for
Ca-Th-doped samples. S is positive in the whole temperature range for
both sample series and increases with increasing dopant concentration
with an exception only at x = 0.1 in the Ca-Th series, where, as
mentioned, the solubility limit has been reached. At high temperature, S
follows an almost linear temperature dependence. For decreasing
temperature, S has a broad maximum slightly above the superconducting
T_(c) and decreases strongly as T_(c) is approached. The chain
contribution to S has a positive slope, while the plane contribution
typically has a negative slope.[8, 9, 10, 15] Our results hence indicate
that holes in the planes give the dominating contribution to the
thermopower. The curves through data in Fig. 1 exemplify fits to one of
the models used to analyze S, which will be described below.

Some general features of S(T) can be noted prior to analyses of the
models. The doping concentration dependence of S at 290 K is compared in
Fig. 2 for Ca-Pr and Ca-Th dopings. In the orthorhombic phase S
increases strongly for Ca-Th doping, while for Ca-Pr doping there is
only a moderate increase up to x = 0.1. According to the general trends
for S outlined in the Introduction, one may conclude that there is a
more pronounced weakening of the metallic state for Ca-Th doping than
for Ca-Pr doping. For comparison, data for Nd-123 with a single dopant
of either Ca (Ref. [24]) or Pr (Ref. [25]) have been included in Fig. 2.
In the former case, one expects addition of holes and improved metallic
properties, similar to observed resistive properties of Sm-123 doped
with Ca only.[26] The concentration dependence of S(x) is in agreement
with this interpretation. For

Figure 1: Thermoelectric power S for (a)
Nd_(1 − 2x)Ca_(x)Pr_(x)Ba_(x)Cu₃O_(7 − δ) and (b)
Nd_(1 − 2x)Ca_(x)Th_(x)Ba_(x)Cu₃O_(7 − δ) samples. The curves are fits
to the model of Eq. (1). Here $T_{\rm max}$ is the temperature at the
maximum of S(T) as shown by an arrow for one sample.

doping with Pr only, a somewhat stronger increase of S₂₉₀ is observed
relative to the charge-neutral Ca-Pr doping, which is in qualitative
agreement with the expected destruction of holes by Pr⁴⁺.

Another characteristic feature of the observations is the variation with
doping of the temperature $T_{\rm max}$ at the maximum of S(T). The
relative concentration dependence of $T_{\rm max}$ is shown in Fig. 3
for the same alloys as in Fig. 2. A datum at x = 0.015 for Ca-Th has
been omitted from the figure since in this case data were scattered in
the region of the maximum in S(T) and a determination of $T_{\rm max}$
was uncertain. The overall features of Figs. 2 and 3 are similar,
reflecting a trend of weakening metallic state for Pr and Ca-Th dopings
and a more pronounced effect for Ca-Th doping than for Ca-Pr doping.
Dopings with only Ca indicate improved metallic properties.

Published results in other high-T_(c) systems display similar trends. In
Bi-2212 (Ref. [27]) and in T1-2212 doped with Y on a Ca
site,[28]$T_{\rm max}$ was found to increase with doping, and this trend
was stronger in the T1-based system, which showed a much stronger
increase of the resistivity with doping than the Bi-based samples.[29]
In Bi-2212 samples of varying oxygen concentration, an increase of the
resistivity was observed, concomitant with a decrease of T_(c) and an
increase of $T_{\rm max}$.[30]

### Semiempirical models for S

Two models for the thermoelectric power will be used to analyze the
results, both of which are based on the assumption of a narrow band for
the charge carriers. Forro _et al._ suggested[30] a two-band model with
an additional linear temperature term for analyzing the thermoelectric
power in the temperature range above T_(c) (here called model 1). This
expression has the following form:

$$\begin{array}{l} S(T)\!=\!\frac{AT}{B^{2}\!+\!T^{2}}+\gamma T,\\ \\ A\!=\!2|\varepsilon_{0}\!-\!\varepsilon_{F}|/|e|,\\ \\ B^{2}\!=\!3[(\varepsilon_{0}\!-\!\varepsilon_{F})^{2}\!+\!\Gamma^{2}]J\,\pi^{2 }k_{B}^{2}.\end{array}$$
(1)

The first term, as proposed by Gotwick _et al.[31]_ for analyses of
thermoelectric power data for CeNi_(x) samples, is a superposition of a
broad and a narrow band. The narrow band has width Γ and is positioned
with its peak at ε₀ close to the Fermi energy ε_(F). The second term of
S is the normal band contribution. Three fitting parameters are used in
this model, A, B, and γ, from which the bandwidth and distance between
the narrow band peak and ε_(F) can be calculated.

In the phenomenological model by Gasumyants _et al.[32]_ it is similarly
assumed that the Fermi energy is located inside a narrow energy interval
within which the density of states is larger than beyond this interval.
Approximate analytical expressions were derived for the temperature
dependence of the transport coefficients, and results for S(T) were
obtained in terms of the energy bandwidth for the density of states,
w_(D), the band filling fraction F–i.e., the electron concentration
divided by the number of states in the band–and the bandwidth w_(σ) of
the effective conductivity σ(ε) (model 2). S is thus expressed in the
form

S = S(w_(D), w_(σ), F, T)
(2)

for each sample. Equation (2) is given in the Appendix.

Both these models thus employ three free parameters to describe the
fairly smooth functions S = S(T) for each sample. It is therefore not
surprising that in all cases the observations can be well described. The
curves in Figs. 1(a) and 1(b) illustrate the fits to model 1. Typical
errors in the fitting procedures are nevertheless small, of order 1

### Results in model 1

Γ and ε₀ − ε_(F) in Eq. (1) were calculated from the parameters A and B
obtained from the analyses of S(x, T). The

Figure 3: Relative concentration dependence of $T_{\rm max}$. Circles:
Present codoped samples. Open triangles: Data from Refs. [24] and [25].

Figure 2: Relative concentration dependence of $S(290\,{\rm K})$.
Present data with x defined as in Fig. 1 are shown by circles. For
comparison, data from Ref. [24] for Nd_(1 − x)Ca,Ba₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) and
from Ref. [25] for Nd_(1 − x)Pr_(x)Ba₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) are also shown.

bandwidth Γ was found to be of the order of 15 meV. For Ca-Pr doping Γ
was within 14.6 ± 0.5 meV for all samples, while for Ca-Th doping a
trend of increasing Γ with x is apparent in the data up to x = 0.05 as
illustrated in Fig. 4. At x = 0.1, at the solid solubility limit, a low
value of Γ(x)/Γ(0) = 1.13 was found (not shown in Fig. 4).

Compared with the magnitude of Γ, the variation of ε₀ - ε_(F) with
doping is small. As illustrated in Fig. 5, |e₀ − e_(F)| increases more
strongly for Ca-Th doping than for Ca-Pr. These results suggest that the
Fermi energy approaches the tail of the band, diminishing the number of
free charge carriers, and furthermore that this tendency for
localization is somewhat stronger for Ca-Th than for Ca-Pr, in
qualitative agreement with previously discussed observations.

It was found recently that the parameter γ of Eq. (1) varied with hole
concentration p in a parabolic way for Nd-123 doped with either Ca or
Pr.[25] The hole concentration was determined from the universal
relation between p and S at 290 K.[15] The maximum of this parabola was
close to the charge concentration corresponding to the maximum
superconducting T_(c), with p increasing for Ca doping and decreasing
for Pr doping.[25] This relation is interesting since it gives a further
example of a parabolic relation between a material property of a
high-T_(c) superconductor and the variation of charge. However, this
result for γ(p) is empirical and not understood in detail.

The present Ca-Pr-doped samples follow this trend, as illustrated in
Fig. 6, indicating a decrease of (mobile) hole concentration with
increasing Ca-Pr doping. For Ca-Th doping, on the other hand, this
relation breaks down. This is apparently due to a breakdown of the
relation between S_(290 K) and p. When p was estimated from bond valence
sum calculations for Ca-Th-doped Nd-123,[20] it was found to increase
with doping concentration x. On the other hand, since S_(290 K)
increases with x, as shown in Fig. 2, the usual relation[15] between
S_(290 K) and p indicates that p decreases with x. This is in contrast
to Ca-Pr-doped Nd-123, where BVS estimates for p, although somewhat
scattered, displayed a main trend of a decrease with increasing x.[19]
As shown in Fig. 2, S_(290 K) increases with x also in this case. These
results thus show another interesting difference between Ca-Pr and Ca-Th
doping.

### Results in model 2

In the description of S(x, T) according to Eq. (2), results are obtained
for the fraction of electron filling F(x), and the two parameters
w_(D)(x) and w_(σ)(x), referring to the bandwidths of the density of
states and itinerant electrons, respectively. It was found that F(x)
remained almost constant for Ca-Pr doping and increased weakly for Ca-Th
doping, with values about 0.52 for both dopings. The relative
concentration dependence is illustrated in Fig. 7(a) on an expanded
scale for F. These results support that charge filling in the bands
remains approximately constant for both dopings.

w_(D) is shown in Fig. 7(b). It increases strongly with x for both
dopings. The datum at x = 0.1 for Ca-Th doping is shown within
parentheses since it is at the solubility limit. Bandwidths of order 0.1
eV are in agreement with results by Gasumyants _et al._ for Y-123
samples doped by oxygen re

Figure 4: Relative concentration dependence of the bandwidths Γ from
model 1 and w_(σ) from model 2 for
Nd_(1 − 2.2)Ca_(M)_(M)Ba₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ). Solid symbols: M= Th. Open
symbols: M= Pr. Triangles: w_(σ)(x). Circles: Γ(x).

Figure 5: |e₀ − e_(F)| vs x for the codoped samples. Solid symbols:
Ca-Th. Open symbols: Ca-Pr.

Figure 6: Concentration dependence of the parameter γ from model 1. The
hole concentration in the planes, p, was estimated from the thermopower
and the general result of Ref. [15]. Results for S of Ca-doped Nd-123
(Ref. [24]) and Pr-doped Nd-123 (Ref. [25]) are also shown. For
Ca-Th-doped samples the parabolic relation between S and p breaks down
as discussed in the text.

duction or addition of different 3d metals.[32] The strong increase of
the bandwidths in Fig. 7(b) suggests that the density of states is
reduced for both dopings. The itinerant electron bandwidth w_(σ) was
found to increase somewhat with x for Ca-Th doping and to remain fairly
constant for Ca-Pr doping as illustrated in Fig. 4. The development of
these bandwidths with doping reflects a change of the metallic
character, with the parameter C = w_(σ)/w_(D) describing a tendency for
localization. For both dopings, the increase of w_(D) [Fig. 7(b)] is
stronger than the change of w_(σ) and C decreases as a function of
doping concentration as seen in Fig. 7(c). The results thus suggest that
band broadening mainly occurs in the localized parts of the bands.

## IV Discussion

### Trends in S(x, T)

Both models used to analyze S(x, T) assume the existence of a narrow
band in which the Fermi energy is located. Parameters of the models can
therefore be qualitatively compared. Common trends in the doping
dependence of such parameters give strengthened support for the outlines
of a qualitative physical picture.

The effective bandwidth Γ in model 1 corresponds to the itinerant
bandwidth w_(σ) in model 2. Here Γ was found to be of order 15 meV for
both dopings, while w_(σ) is also similar for both dopings and about 35
meV. Quantitative agreement is thus poor. However, in semiempirical
models it is rather the trends than the magnitudes of the parameters
which are of physical relevance. The relative concentration dependences
of w_(σ) and Γ are compared in Fig. 4. There is fair agreement between
the results for the bandwidths in each of the two models. Γ and w_(σ)
increase by about 15

The tendency for localization as reflected in the parameter
C = w_(σ)/w_(D) in model 2 is related to the displacement of ε_(F) from
the peak of the narrow band towards the localized part of the band in
model 1. However, the development of the full bandwidth is not
considered in model 1 and this comparison is rough. Nevertheless, from
Figs. 5 and 7(c) it can be concluded that both models support an
increased tendency towards localization for both dopings.

It is interesting to compare present charge-neutral doped systems with
the results of Gasumyants _et al.[32]_ for the thermopower of
oxygen-depleted Y-123. This can conveniently be made by comparing the
results over a range of similar changes of T_(c). For the present alloys
T_(c) has decreased by ≈20

The analyses of both models give a consistent picture of Ca-Th and Ca-Pr
dopings. An increased tendency for localization is found, and most
results indicate that this tendency is stronger for Ca-Th than for Ca-Pr
doping. The relative increase of the bandwidths Γ(x) and w_(σ)(x) with x
is both stronger for Ca-Th doping (Fig. 4), and this is also the case
for the energy distance between ε₀ and Fermi energy; i.e., ε_(F) moves
faster towards the localized part of the band for Ca-Th doping (Fig. 5).
The increase of S_(200 K) with x is stronger for Ca-Th doping (Fig. 2),
which empirically is in line with this picture. On the other hand,
T_(max)(x) (Fig. 3) and the total bandwidth w_(D) [Fig. 7(b)] show a
tendency for localization for both dopings, but the relative strengths
of these trends cannot be clearly separated.

### Depression of T_(c) in light of results from S(t)

Although the Ca-Th and Ca-Pr dopings in several aspects are similar,
there are noteworthy differences as mentioned in

Figure 7: Results from model 2. (a) The relative concentration
dependence of the band filling F(x) of Eq. (2). (b) Concentration
dependence of the (density of states) band width. At x = 0.1 the
solubility limit in the orthorhombic phase is reached for Ca-Th doping,
and this datum is shown within parentheses. (c) Concentration dependence
of the localization parameter C = w_(σ)/w_(D).

the Introduction. The most significant one in the present context is the
strong increase of the room-temperature electrical resistivity ρ for
Ca-Th-doped samples, compared with a much slower increase of ρ for Ca-Pr
doping. In fact, in the approximation that the doping dependence of the
resistivity measures the doping dependence of the disorder parameter
ℏ/πe_(F), with τ the elastic scattering time, it was found that the
depression of T_(c) could be qualitatively explained by quantum
interference effects for Ca-Th doping, but not for Ca-Pr doping.[22] It
might be possible that a larger resistivity for Ca-Th arises from an
increased granularity. However, the present results for S(x, T) confirm
and supplement the picture of Ref. [22]. The broadening of the bands and
the displacement of the Fermi energy towards the localized bands
qualitatively support a decrease of both τ and ε_(F) with increasing x,
with a stronger effect for Ca-Th than for Ca-Pr doping.

Why then does electronic disorder develop faster for Ca-Th doping, and
what causes the almost similarly strong depression of T_(c) for Ca-Pr
doping? Tentative answers to these questions might be found along the
following lines. It can be noted that Pr and Nd have comparable ionic
masses, while Th is considerably heavier. One may therefore conjecture
that Th produces a stronger perturbing potential with a larger increase
of the electronic scattering rate. The alienation of Th in 123 compounds
is also illustrated by the fact that it is the only one of the three
doping elements Ca, Pr, and Th which does not easily enter into solid
solutions as a single doping element.

For Pr doping it was found recently from neutron diffraction and
calculations of BVS’s that doping of only Pr in Nd-123 resulted in a
suppression of mobile charge density.[35] Hybridization between Pr 4f
and conduction electron band states may lead to such localization of
charge carriers and depression of T_(c), as inferred, e.g., from x-ray
absorption fine structure in Pr-doped Y-123 (Ref. [36]) and from
magnetic properties of Pr doped into a large number of different
rare-earth 123 compounds,[37] in both cases for larger Pr dopings than
those presently studied. Localization may survive also in charge-neutral
dopings. As mentioned, BVS results for the average hole density in the
planes for Ca-Pr-doped Nd-123 showed a main trend of decreasing with
increasing doping.[19] Using the present results for S_(290 K) to
estimate the charge density, it can be inferred from the abscissa in
Fig. 6 that p is similarly reduced for the present Ca_(x)Pr_(x) samples
up to x = 0.1 as for Nd_(1 − x)Pr_(x)-123 samples from Ref. [25] in the
same range of x. Hence the localization tendency for Pr excess charge
does not seem to be affected by codoping with Ca. For Ca-Pr doping we
therefore conclude that in addition to an increased electronic disorder,
the depression of T_(c) with doping is due to charge localization on Pr
sites.

## V. Brief summary

The normal-state thermoelectric power of
Nd_(1 − 2x)Ca_(x)M_(x)Ba₂Cu₃O_(7 − δ) with M = Pr or Th has been
measured and analyzed in two different models, each one with three free
parameters describing characteristic features of the band structure.
Good descriptions of S(T) were obtained in both models for each alloy
system. A consistent doping concentration dependence of corresponding
parameters was obtained in the two models. The bandwidths Γ(x) and
w_(σ)(x) both increase for increasing Ca-Pr and Ca-Th doping, the Fermi
energy is displaced towards the localized parts of the bands, and the
ratio w_(σ)/w_(D) decreases with x. These changes are in general more
prominent for Ca-Th doping, which together with a stronger increase of
the electrical resistivity indicates that the localization tendency is
driven by electronic disorder for this doping. For Ca-Pr doping the
results suggest that in addition to a weaker disorder effect, mobile
charge carriers localize for increasing doping concentration.

## Acknowledgments

Financial support by the Swedish Agencies Vetenskapsradet and the SSF
Oxide Consortium and from the Iranian Ministry of Science, Research, and
Technology is gratefully acknowledged.

## Appendix

In the model of Ref. [32], S(T) is expressed in terms of the three
parameters w_(σ), w_(D), and F as

$$S = -\frac{k_{B}}{e}\Bigg{(}\frac{w_{\sigma}^{\ast}}{\sinh w_{\sigma} ^{\ast}}\Bigg{[}e^{-\mu^{\ast}}\!+\!\cosh w_{\sigma}^{\ast}\!-\!\frac{1}{w_{ \sigma}^{\ast}}\!\left(\cosh\mu^{\ast}\right.$$
$$\left.+\cosh w_{\sigma}^{\ast}\right)\!\ln\frac{e^{\mu^{\ast}} \!+\!e^{\ast}w_{\sigma}^{\ast}}{e^{\mu^{\ast}}\!+\!e^{-w_{\sigma}^{\ast}}} \!\Bigg{]}\!-\!\mu^{\ast}\Bigg{\}},$$
Yamauchi, and T. Tanaka, Physica C **185-189**, 1285 (1991). * [6] J. S.
Zhou, J. P. Zhou, J. B. Goodenough, and J. T. MacDevitt, Phys. Rev. B
**51**, 3250 (1995). * [7] C. Bernhard and J. L. Tallon, Phys. Rev. B
**54**, 12 201 (1996). * [8] J. L. Tallon, J. R. Cooper, P. S. I. P. N.
de Silva, G. V. M. Williams, and J. W. Loram, Phys. Rev. Lett. **75**,
4114 (1995). * [9] J. W. Cochrane, G. J. Russel, and D. N. Matthews,
Physica C **232**, 89 (1994). * [10] G. V. M. Williams, M. Staines, J.
L. Tallon, and R. Meinhold, Physica C **258**, 273 (1996). * [11] D.
Mandrus, L. Forro, C. Kendziora, and L. Mihaly, Phys. Rev. B **44**,
2418 (1991). * [12] X. H. Chen, T. F. Li, M. Yu, K. Q. Ruan, C. Y. Wang,
and L. Z. Cao, Physica C **290**, 317 (1997). * [13] R. Wang, H. Sekine,
and H. Jin, Supercond. Sci. Technol. **9**, 529 (1996). * [14] M. Y.
Choi and J. S. Kim, Phys. Rev. B **59**, 192 (1999). * [15] S. D.
Obertelli, J. R. Cooper, and J. L. Tallon, Phys. Rev. B **46**, 14 928
(1992). * [16] C. N. R. Rao, T. V. Ramakrishnan, and N. Kumar, Physica C
**165**, 183 (1990). * [17] K. Isawa, A. T. Okiwa-Yamamoto, M. Itoh, S.
Adachi, and H. Yamauchi, Physica C **217**, 11 (1993). * [18] C. K.
Subramaniam, M. Paranthaman, and A. B. Kaiser, Phys. Rev. B **51**, 1330
(1995). * [19] P. Lundqvist, C. Tengroth, O. Rapp, R. Tellgren, and Z.
Hegedus, Physica C **269**, 231 (1996). * [20] P. Lundqvist, O. Rapp, R.
Tellgren, and I. Bryntise, Phys. Rev. B **56**, 2824 (1997). * [21] P.
Lundqvist, O. Rapp, O. Hartmann, E. Karlsson, and R. Wappling, Physica C
**338**, 263 (2000). * [22] B. Lundqvist, P. Lundqvist, and O. Rapp,
Phys. Rev. B **57**, 14 428 (1998). * [23] K. E. Johansson and P. E.
Werner, J. Phys. E **13**, 1289 (1989). * [24] S. R. Ghorbani, M.
Andersson, P. Lundqvist, M. Valldor, and O. Rapp, Physica C **339**, 245
(2000). * [25] S. R. Ghorbani, P. Lundqvist, M. Andersson, M. Valldor,
and O. Rapp, Physica C **353**, 77 (2001). * [26] P. Lundqvist, P.
Grahn, O. Rapp, and I. Bryntise, Physica C **289**, 137 (1997). * [27]
J. B. Mandal, S. Keshri, P. Mandal, A. Poddar, A. N. Das, and B. Ghosh,
Phys. Rev. B **46**, 11 840 (1992). * [28] S. Keshri, J. B. Mandal, P.
Mandal, A. Poddar, A. N. Das, and B. Ghosh, Phys. Rev. B **47**, 9048
(1993). * [29] J. B. Mandal, A. N. Das, and B. Ghosh, J. Phys.: Condens.
Matter **8**, 3047 (1996). * [30] L. Forro, J. Lukatela, and B. Keszei,
Solid State Commun. **73**, 501 (1990). * [31] U. Gottwick, K. Gloos, S.
Horn, F. Steglich, and N. Grewe, J. Magn. Magn. Mater. **47-48**, 536
(1985). * [32] V. E. Gasummars, V. I. Kadanov, and E. V. Vladimirskaya,
Physica C **248**, 255 (1995). * [33] R. J. Cava, A. W. Hewat, E. A.
Hewat, B. Batlogg, M. Marezio, K. M. Rabe, J. J. Krajewski, W. F. Peck,
and L. W. Rupp, Physica C **165**, 419 (1990). * [34] J. D. Jorgensen,
B. W. Veal, A. P. Paulias, L. J. Nowicki, G. W. Crabtree, H. Claus, and
W. K. Kwok, Phys. Rev. B **41**, 1863 (1990). * [35] S. R. Ghorbani, M.
Andersson, and O. Rapp (unpublished). * [36] C. H. Booth, F. Bridges, J.
B. Boyce, T. Claeson, Z. X. Zhao, and P. Cervantes, Phys. Rev. B **49**,
3432 (1994). * [37] W. Guan, Y. Xu, S. R. Sheen, Y. C. Chen, J. Y. T.
Wei, H. F. Lai, M. K. Wu, and J. C. Ho, Phys. Rev. B **49**, 15 993
(1994).
