Mossbauer, crystal-structure, magnetic, and Raman studies of the
(Y,Ce)₂Sr₂CuFeO₈ compound isomorphic to superconductors with the T^(*)
structure

M. Pissas, C. Mitros, D. Niarchos, A. Kostikas, and A. Simopoulos

Institute of Materials Science National Research Center for Physical
Sciences Demokritos, 153 10 Agia Paraskevi, Attiki, Greece

M. Abrashev, V. Hadjimitov, and M. Iliev

Faculty of Physics, Sofia University, 1126 Sofia, Bulgaria

22 March 1994

###### Abstract

The crystal structure, the magnetic and transport properties, and the
lattice vibrations of the (Y,Ce)₂Sr₂CuFeO₈ compound were studied by
Rietveld refinement, Mossbauer spectroscopy, dc magnetic susceptibility,
electrical-resistivity measurements, and Raman spectroscopy. The
Rietveld-refinement results and Raman spectra show that the space group
which describes the structure is P4mm. Mossbauer spectra can be fitted
with one component with hyperfine parameters which correspond to Fe⁺³ in
a high-spin state coordinated by five oxygen atoms arranged in a square
pyramid. Most of the observed phonon lines can be assigned to definite
atomic vibrations. Magnetic measurements show an antiferromagnetic
transition at 30 K. Fitting of dc-susceptibility data in the
paramagnetic region gives an effective magnetic moment of (3.6±0.1)μ_(B)
per ion. The resistivity data show insulating behavior.

22 March 1994

## 1 Introduction

To elucidate the nature of high-temperature superconductivity in doped
layered cuprates it is interesting to study the properties on
isostructural compounds, in order to establish the structural conditions
that favor or inhibit the occurrence of superconductivity in these
materials. It is useful to analyze the changes that take place when the
copper ions are totally or partially replaced by metal ions with
different coordinates and valence, and to correlate such changes with
the electrical properties of these materials. Some of these compounds
cannot be stabilized without the simultaneous presence of two transition
elements. An example is the compound [1, 2] YBaCuFeO₅ where the
structure consists of sheets of apex-sharing oxygen pyramids whose
centers are occupied by Fe or Cu. The pyramids connect by corner sharing
of the equatorial oxygen ions into two-dimensional (2D) slabs that are
separated by a layer of Y. The Ba ion is at the level of the apical
oxygen. The Y and Ba ions occupy the dodecahedral site in the simple
perovskite structure. This structure is similar to that of
YBa₂Cu₃O_(6 + x) with the difference that the chain levels are absent.

Another compound [3] of the above category with a more complicated
structure is Y₂SrFeCuO_(6.5). The crystal structure has many
similarities to that of YBaCuFeO₅. The difference is that instead of a
single layer of Y³⁺ there are double layers of Y³⁺, which are sevenfold
coordinated by seven oxygen ions located at the corners of a cube with
the eighth corner vacant. The Y environment is intermediate between that
of the fluorite structure and that of the anion-deficient fluorite-type
structure, [4] C-Y₂O₃. An interesting variation occurs by substitution
of Y³⁺ by Ce⁴⁺. Since CeO₂ has CaF₂ (fluorite) structure, this yields
perovskites with layers which have fluorite structure. For example
Michel _et al._[5] isolated the NdCeBaFeCuO₇ compound which can be
described as an intergrowth of NdBaFeCuO₅ structure and CeO₂ with
fluorite structure. Wada _et al._[6] synthesized a new homologous
compound series (Fe,Cu)Sr₂(Y,Ce)_(n)Cu₂O_(y) which contains a multiple
MO₂ unit block with fluorite structure.

Recently Kaibin _et al._[7] prepared in single-phase form the compound
(Y,Ce)₂Sr₂CuFeO₈. The structure of this compound is similar to the
so-called T^(*) structure.

In this paper we report an elaborated study of the structure, lattice
vibrations, magnetic, and conductivity properties of the compound
(Y,Ce)₂Sr₂CuFeO₈ via x-ray diffraction and Mossbauer and Raman
spectroscopy as well as magnetic and resistivity measurements.

## 2 Experimental Details

The sample with nominal composition Y_(1.34)Ce_(0.66)Sr₂CuFeO₈ was
prepared by thoroughly mixing high purity stoichiometric amounts of
Y₂O₃, CeO₂, SrCO₃, CuO, and Fe₂O₃. The mixed powders were pelletized and
annealed in air at 1125 degC for 24 h and after several grindings the
sample was annealed at the same temperature and finally was quenched to
room temperature (RT). This procedure yields a single-phase material,
while any significant deviation from the above ratio of Y:Ce leads to
multiphase samples.

The x-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns were taken in the Bragg-Brentano
geometry (from 20^(∘) to 120^(∘) with a step of 0.03^(∘)) with Cu Kα
radiation using a graphite crystal monochromator (Siemens D500).
Mossbauer spectra were taken using a conventional constant acceleration
spectrometer with 57Co(Rh) source moving at RT while the absorber was at
the desired temperature. dc magnetization measurements were performed in
a superconducting quantum interference device (SQUID) magnetometer
(Quantum Design).

In the Raman scattering experiments two kinds of spectra were measured.
The first kind of spectra was measured using a micro-Raman triple
multichannel spectrometer (Microdiol 28) equipped with an optical
microscope. An 100x objective lens produced a laser spot of about 1 _m_m
in diameter and collected the scattered light from the polished surface
of individual microcrystals in backward geometry. The second kind of
spectra was recorded using a double spectrometer (Spex 1403) equipped
with a cooled photomultiplier and photon counting system. The laser spot
was between 100 and 200 _m_m and the scattered light characterized the
pellet as a whole. Both the 488 nm and 514.5 nm Ar+ laser lines were
used for excitation.

## III Results and Discussion

### Structural study

The structure of the (Y,Ce)2Sr2CuFeO3 compound is shown in Fig. 1. It is
similar to the so-called _T_* structure which consists of alternating
slabs of La2CuO4 and Nd2CuO4 type structures. The layers that come from
La2CuO4 have a structure of NaCl, while the layers that come from
Nd2CuO4 structure have the structure of CaF2. The connection of layers
is mediated through a layer of transition element. In this way the
transition metal (e.g., Cu or Fe) has approximately square pyramidal
coordination.

The _T_* structure, e.g., in the compound (Nd0.66Sr0.205Ce0.135)CuO4-8
is described8 by the space group P4/_nmm_ (No. 129). There is one site
_M_ site, 2_c_(0,1/2,z1) in which the M cation is coordinated by nine
oxygen atoms as in La3+ in the La2CuO4 compound and another site _M’_
site, 2_c_(0,1/2,z2) in which cation _M’_ is coordinated by eight oxygen
atoms on the corners of a cube as in Nd3+ in the Nd2CuO4 compound. The
cations M and _M’_ form double layers with the NaCl and CaF2 structures,
respectively.

The iron and copper cations in the present structure are coordinated by
five oxygens arranged in a square pyramid 2c site (1/2,0,z3). Assuming
that Fe and Cu occupy separate sites, we must choose a space group with
lower symmetry in order to describe the structure. More specifically we
choose space group P4_mm_ (No. 99). In this space group we have
subtracted the diagonal glide plane so that all the 2c sites (1/2,0,_z_)
split into two separate sites, the 1a and 1_b_(0,0,_z_),(1/2,1/2,z2),
respectively. The 4f site of oxygen at the (Cu,Fe) planes splits also
into two 2c sites (1/2,0,_z_).

Structure refinements on the (Y,Ce)2Sr2CuFeO3 phase were carried out
with the BBWs-9006 Rietveld analysis program.9 The profile-shape
functions were assumed to be Pearson VII with profile shape coefficient
m = 1.1 (Lorentzian function). The background was refined together with
the structure. The refinement was carried out using the space group
P4_mm_. Two different values of the isotropic thermal parameter B were
assumed, one for all the cations and one for the oxygens. Occupancies of
oxygen were assumed to be 1.0. All species occupying the same site were
constrained to have the same atomic positions. Structural parameters,
reliability factors, and the cation-oxygen bond lengths obtained from
Rietveld refinement are summarized in Tables 1 and 2. Figure 2 shows the
experimental XRD spectra with that theoretically calculated, according
to Rietveld refinement. As shown in Table 1 refinements of the cation
occupancies at the M and _M’_ sites show a clear preference of larger
cations Sr2+ for the M site (NaCl structure). The same occurs for the
Sr2+ in compounds Bi2Sr2Ca_n-1Cu_O_y_ and Sr2FeO4.10 On the other hand Y
and Ce occupy the _M’_ site (CaF2 structure). The occupancies of Y and
Ce are constrained to the nominal composition of the sample. In most of
the _T_*-phase materials the cations are ordered with larger ones (such
as La3+, Nd3+, and Sr2+) occupying the M site while the smaller cations
(such as Y3+, Gd3+, and Ce4+) occupy the _M’_ site.11,18,12,13

Because of the similarity of the scattering factors of Cu and Fe the
present data cannot distinguish which site is occupied by the iron and
copper ions (1a or 1_b_). However, by using the current literature
information on Fe3+ and Cu2+, coordinated by five oxygens arranged in a
square pyramid, we can assign the distribution of iron and copper ions
at the 1b and 1a positions, respectively.

The existing bond length data indicate that the copper ions are
coordinated by five oxygens arranged in a square pyramid with the long
Cu-O bond along the c axis. For example, in other related cuprates as in
YBa2CuO7 (Cu-Oqa)_w_ = 1.944(1) A, Cu-Oa= 2.298(6) A and, in YBa2CuO6,
Cu-Oe= 1.940(0) A, Cu-Oa= 2.471(4)A.14 For materials with _T_*
structure, e.g., in La0,5Cd0,5Sr0,2CuO4, Cu-Oa= 1.9345(8) A, Cu-Oa=
2.188(1) A (Ref. 11) and, in YBaCuOeO5, Cu-Oa= 1.936(2) A, Cu-Oa=
2.345(9)A.15 Thus Cu2+

Figure 1: Crystal structure of (Y,Ce )2Sr2CuFeO3.

"prefers" the center of the severely elongated square pyramid.

On the other hand the FeO5 square pyramid is somewhat squashed with an
Fe-Oax bond distance shorter than the Fe-O6q distances. In the compound
Pb4Fe5O6Cl,16 in which Fe3+ is fivefold coordinated, Fe-O6q = 2.01 A and
Fe-Oax = 1.93 A. In the recently prepared compound YBa2Fe3O6,17 for the
Fe at the Fe(2) site the distances are also consistent with this rule,
e.g., Fe(2), O6q = 2.0138(9) A, Fe(2)-Oax = 1.872(6) A. For the compound
YBaCuFeO5,18,19 which also has Fe3+ in square pyramidal coordination,
Fe-Oax = 1.82(9) A and Fe-Oeq = 2.03(3) A.

The results on the preference of site occupancy for Cu2+ and Fe3+ in
squared pyramids support the assumption of the space group _P4mm_ to
refine the structural data. According to this refinement (Table 1), Fe3+
occupies the 1_b_(1/2,1/2,0.253) and Cu2+ the 1a site (0,0,0.752). With
this assignment the refinement gives the bond lengths listed in Table 2
i.e., Cu-Oeq = 1.961 A, Cu-Oax = 2.278 A and Fe-Oeq = 1.923 A, Fe-Oax =
1.855 A. A description with space group _P4/nmm_ on the other hand
provides one site for both iron and copper in a squashed square pyramid,
(Fe,Cu)-Oeq = 1.94 A, (Fe,Cu)-Oagh = 1.99 A, which is consistent with
literature data for Fe⁺ but not for Cu2+. This, together with the lower
_Rg_ value we obtain for the _P4mm_ than the _P4/nmm_ favors the former
space group for the structure description.

Table 3: Experimental values of the half linewidth Γ/2 in mm/s, the
isomer shift 8 relative to metallic Fe at RT in mm/s, the quadrupole
shift ε in mm/s ε=(1/4)e²qQ(1 + η²/3)^(1/2), ε = (1/8)e²qQ(3 cos²θ−1 +
ηsin²θcos₂θ) for paramagnetic and magnetic spectra, respectively, the
hyperfine magnetic field H in kG, and the hyperfine magnetic field
spread ΔH modulating the linewidths, as obtained from least-squares fits
of the Mossbauer spectra. The numbers in parentheses are estimated
standard deviations referred to the last significant digit.

Figure 7: Mössbauer spectra of (Y,Ce )₂Sr₂CuFeO₈ (a) RT, (b) 4.2 K. The
ordinate axis is relative transmission.

###### Acknowledgements.

Partial support for this work was provided by the E.C. through the
B/E-CT91-472 project, 89EK19 of the Greek Ministry of Industry and
Technology, and Grant No. F1/91 of the Bulgarian National Foundation for
Science. We wish to acknowledge V. Vlesides for magnetic measurements
and for his expert technical support. We would like also to thank Dr. E.
Delvin for stimulating discussions.

## References

* [1] L. Er-Rakho, C. Michel, P. Lacorre, and B. Raveau, J. Solid State
Chem. **73**, 531 (1988). * [2] M. Pissas, C. Mitros, G. Kallias, V.
Psycharis, A. Simopoulos, A. Kostikas, and D. Niarchos, Physica C
**192**, 35 (1992). * [3] J. S. Kim, J. Y. Lee, J. S. Swinnea, H.
Steinfink, W. M. Reiff, P. Lightfoot, S. Pei, and J. D. Jorgensen, J.
Solid State Chem. **90**, 331 (1991). * [4] B. G. Hyde and S. Andersson,
_Inorganic Crystal Structures_ (John Wiley & Sons, New York, 1989), p.
194. * [5] C. Michel, M. Hervieu, and B. Raveau, J. Solid State Chem.
**3**, 135 (1990). * [6] T. Wada, A. Nare, A. Incinose, H. Yamauchi, and
S. Tanaka, Physica C **192**, 181 (1992). * [7] T. Kaibin, Q. Yitai, L.
Rukang, C. Zuyao, L. Bin, and J. Yunbo, Physica C **205**, 406 (1993). *
[8] H. Sawa, S. Suzuki, M. Watanabe, J. Akimitsu, H. Matsubara, H.
Watabe, S. Uchida, K. Kokusho, H. Asano, F. Izumi, and E.
Takayama-Muromachi, Nature **337**, 347 (1989). * [9] D. B. Wiles and R.
A. Young, J. Appl. Crystallogr. **14**, 149 (1981). * [10] S. E. Dann,
M. T. Weller, and D. B. Currie, J. Solid State Chem. **92**, 237
(1991). * [11] G. H. Kwei, R. B. VonDreele, S. W. Cheong, Z. Fisk, and
J. D. Thompson, Phys. Rev. B **41**, 1889 (1990). * [12] Y. Tokura, H.
Takagi, and S. Uchida, Nature **337**, 345 (1989). * [13] F. Izumi, E.
Takayama-Muromachi, A. Fujimori, T. Kamiyama, H. Asano, J. Akimitsu, and
H. Sawa, Physica C **158**, 440 (1989). * [14] J. D. Jorgensen, B. W.
Veal, A. P. Paulikas, L. J. Nowicki, G. W. Grabtree, H. Claus, and W. K.
Kwok, Phys. Rev. B **41**, 1863 (1990). * [15] A. W. Mombru, C.
Christides, A. Lappas, K. Prassides, M. Pissas, C. Mitros, and D.
Niarchos, Inorg. Chem. **33**, 1255 (1994). * [16] J. Pannetier and P.
Batall, J. Solid State Chem. **39**, 15 (1981). * [17] Q. Huang, P.
Karen, V. L. Karen, A. Kjekshus, J. W. Lynn, A. D. Mighell, N. Rosov,
and A. Santoro, Phys. Rev. B **45**, 9611 (1992). * [18] D. L. Rousseau,
R. P. Bauman, and S. P. S. Porto, J. Raman Spectrosc. **10**, 253
(1981). * [19] Y. K. Atanassova, V. N. Popov, G. G. Bogachev, M. N.
Iliev, C. Mitros, V. Psycharis, and M. Pissas, Phys. Rev. B **47**,
15201 (1993). * [20] Q. Thomsen, in _Light Scattering in Solids VI_,
edited by M. Cardona and G. Guntherodt, Topics of Applied Physics Vol.
68 (Springer, Berlin, 1991), p. 285. * [21] V. G. Hadjiev, I. Z.
Kostadinov, L. Bozukov, E. Dinolova, and D. M. Mateev, Solid State
Commun. **71**, 1093 (1989). * [22] Y. K. Atanassova, V. G. Hadjiev, P.
Karen, and A. Kjekshus, Phys. Rev. B **50**, 586 (1994). * [23] M. N.
Iliev and V. G. Hadjiev, J. Phys. Condens. Matter **2**, 3135 (1990). *
[24] C. Thomsen, E. Schonherr, B. Friedl, and M. Cardona, Phys. Rev. B
**42**, 943 (1990). * [25] S. Nagata, P. H. Keesom, and H. R. Harrison,
Phys. Rev. B **19**, 1633 (1979). * [26] A. Ito, H. Aruga, E. Torikai,
M. Kikuchi, Y. Syono, and H. Takei, Phys. Rev. Lett. **57**, 483
(1986). * [27] I. Felner, I. Nowik, U. Yaron, O. Cohen, E. R. Bauminger,
T. Kroener, and G. Czjzek, Phys. Rev. B **48**, 16040 (1993). * [28] A.
Lappas, Ph.D. thesis, University of Sussex, 1993. * [29] J. Smart,
_Effective Field Theories of Magnetism_ (W. B. Saunders Company,
Philadelphia, London, 1966), p. 66. * [30] N. F. Mott and E. A. Davis,
_Electronic Processes in Non-Crystalline Materials_, 2nd ed. (Oxford
University Press, London, 1979). * [31] V. Chechersky, N. S. Kopelev,
Beom-hoam O, M. I. Larkin, J. L. Peng, J. T. Market, R. L. Greene, and
A. Nath, Phys. Rev. Lett. **70**, 3355 (1993). * [32] F. Menli, J. Phys.
Chem. Solids **46**, 763 (1985). * [33] I. Felner, D. Hechel, E. R.
Yacoby, G. Hilscher, T. Holubar, and G. Schaudy, Phys. Rev. B **47**,
12190 (1993). * [34] T. Furubayashi, K. Kinoshita, T. Yamada, and T.
Matsumoto, Physica C **204**, 315 (1993). * [35] C. Meyer, F.
Hartmann-Boutron, Y. Gros, and P. Strobel, Physica C **181**, 1
(1991). * [36] M. Pissas, G. Kallias, A. Simopoulos, A. Kostikas, and D.
Niarchos, Phys. Rev. B **46**, 14119 (1992). * [37] M. Pissas, A.
Simopoulos, A. Kostikas, and D. Niarchos, Physica C **176**, 227 (1991).
