Positive curvature in the temperature dependence of H_(c2) in
K_(x)Ba_(1 − x)BiO₃

V. F. Gantmakher, L. A. Klinkova, N. V. Barkovskii, and G. E.
Tsydynzhapov

Institute of Solid State Physics RAS, 142432 Chernogolovka, Russia

S. Wiegers and A. K. Geim

High Field Magnet Laboratory, University of Nijmegen, 6500 GL Nijmegen,
The Netherlands

###### Abstract

We report an upward curvature in the temperature dependence of the upper
critical field H_(c2)(T) in K_(x)Ba_(1 − x)BiO₃ single crystals using
ac-susceptibility measurements and magnetic fields up to 25 T. A
possible role of Landau quantization in such uncommon behavior is
discussed. [S0163-1829(96)03034-2]

The theory by Werthamer-Helfand-Hohenberg [1] (WHH) predicts the
universal behavior of the upper critical field H_(c2)(T) in
superconductors with weak electron-phonon coupling. The behavior can be
described by a universal function h_(c2)(T) expressed in the reduced
variables for magnetic field h = H[T_(c)(−dH_(c2)/dT)_(T − T_(c))]⁻¹ and
temperature t = T/T_(c). The function h_(c2)(t) has a negative second
derivative and saturates to the value h_(c2)=0.7 at t = 0. The WHH
theory has described successfully properties of conventional
superconductors but many new superconductors discovered during the last
decade exhibit behavior inconsistent with the theory. Amorphous alloys
based on transition metals [2] and K3C60 (Ref. 3) shows the linear
dependence H_(c2)(T) down to low temperatures. Some organic
superconductors [4] and electron-doped high-temperature superconductors
[L_(2 − x)Ce_(x)CuO_(4 − y) where L= Pr,Sm,Nd (Refs. 5 and 6)] even have
a positive second derivative. Furthermore, in stark contrast to WHH a
diverging H_(c2)(T) was observed in overdoped Tl₂Ba₂CuO₆ films, [7]
where H_(c2) increased rapidly with decreasing temperature in the whole
temperature range 1 > t > 0.001, and in Bi₂Sr₂CuO₇ films. [8]

In this work we report a non-WHH behavior with a positive second
derivative in K_(x)Ba_(1 − x)BiO₃ single crystals. This material
represents the family of high-temperature superconductors but is
copper-free and has the cubic structure. It has the highest transition
temperature among all known copper-free superconductors. At the same
time, the upper critical field of K_(x)Ba_(1 − x)BiO₃ is only about 25 T
at helium temperature and this allows detailed measurements of the whole
H(T) diagram. There have already been a number of studies of its
H_(c2)(T) dependence in relatively low magnetic fields. [9, 10, 11, 12,
13, 14] Recently, Affronte _et al._[15] have extended the earlier work
to higher fields and found (using resistance measurements) that
H_(c2)(T) dependence has an upward curvature with no sign of saturation
down to T = 0.1T_(c). As this contradicts to the conventional WHH
theory, the authors expressed some doubts concerning the homogeneity of
their samples and the presence of two superconducting phases. [15] We
have employed a different experimental technique for tracing the
superconducting transition (ac susceptibility) which responds
differently if a minor part of the second superconducting phase would be
present. Our observation of the upward curvature, when using a different
method and samples grown by a different technique, indicates that the
violation of the WHH theory is an intrinsic property of
K_(x)Ba_(1 − x)BiO₃ material.

Experimental samples were prepared by electrochemical crystallization.
[16] A melted mixture of KOH, Ba(OH)₂8H₂O, and Bi₂O₃ with the ion ratio
K:Ba:Bi = 72:1:2 was kept in an electrolitic bath at 300 degC. The
process of crystal growth continued for 3 h and was followed by 20 h of
keeping the grown crystals in the melt at the same temperature but
without electric current. In the present experiment we have employed two
samples which have irregular shape and masses 2.2 and 1.5 mg. They were
black in color with a blue shimmer. The critical temperatures of 31.8
and 30.3 K were detected. The superconducting transitions in zero field
had widths 1.7 and 2.5 K, respectively. Experimental results were
practically identical for both samples and for brevity we present here
only those obtained for the sample with the highest T_(c).

ac susceptibility of K_(x)Ba_(1 − x)BiO₃ single crystals has been
measured using the standard four-coil compensation scheme. Measurements
in fields up to 8 T were carried out in a superconducting solenoid and a
Bitter magnet was employed for higher fields up to 25 T. Figure 1 shows
experimental curves of the real part of ac susceptibility χ^(′)(T)
versus temperature at fixed values of the magnetic field. The onset of
the χ^(′) signal has been taken as the indication of the superconducting
transition. Such a convention has been discussed in many of the cited
papers and in fields below 10 T it is known to lead to the same
H_(c2)(T) dependence as any other method. Furthermore, the fact of the
upward curvature for H_(c2)(T) is beyond the uncertainty related to the
definition of the superconducting transition on our χ^(′) curves.

The resulting H(T) diagram of K_(x)Ba_(1 − x)BiO₃ is shown in Fig. 2.
The point at the highest field in this plot (solid circle) was obtained
using another method. The sample was mounted in a torque magnetometer
which measured the force exerted on a magnetic moment by a nonparallel
magnetic field or a field gradient. We used the following procedure to
detect the superconducting state. The sample (immersed in the exchange
gas) was cooled down from a temperature above T_(c) to 4.2 K in the
field 18 T. Then, at the constant temperature of 4.2 K the field was
swept up at a constant rate. The measured force increased first linearly
with the field indicating the superconducting state with pinned or
partly pinned vortices. Then, in the field of 23.7 T we have observed a
kink followed by an approximately constant value of the force. Details
may be interpreted in different ways but the behavior indicates
unambiguously that the superconductivity persists below 23.7 T. We
assume this value to be the lower limit for H_(c2) at 4.2 K as indicated
by the arrow in Fig. 2.

It is clearly seen from Fig. 2 that H_(c2)(T) in K_(x)Ba_(1 − x)BiO₃ has
a _superlinear_ dependence down to t = 0.12 without any tendency to
saturation. The experimental data can be described by the quadratic
function (solid line in Fig. 2)

H = 32.2 − 1.8T + 0.025T²,

where H in T and T in K. The WHH behavior is shown by the dotted curve.
The WHH theory requires only the knowledge of values of T_(c) and
(dH_(c2)/dT)_(T = T_(c)) and the dotted curve represents the best fit to
a part of the experimental curve near T_(c). The observation of the
superlinear dependence may be considered as the main experimental result
of this communication. We note that the observed behavior is very
similar to the one reported by Affronte _et al._15 for their "most
metallic samples."

There are a number of reasons which may lead to the violation of the WHH
theory. They were frequently discussed earlier (see, e.g., Ref. [3]) but
neither of them is applicable to the case of K_(x)Ba_(1 − x)BiO₃. For
instance, the presence of magnetic impurities or a strong anisotropy are
out of suspicion as K_(x)Ba_(1 − x)BiO₃ is a nonmagnetic material with
the cubic structure and a nearly spherical Fermi surface.17 Also, strong
coupling may in general cause a positive curvature of the curve
H_(c2)(T) in the middle temperature range.18 However,
K_(x)Ba_(1 − x)BiO₃ is believed (on the basis of measurements of its
tunneling gap [19, 20]) to be a superconductor with weak or intermediate
coupling. The theory of Kotliar and Kapitulnik 21 takes into account the
disorder and predicts an increase in a value of the reduced upper
critical field by a factor of not greater than 1.25. This is
considerably less than the increase found in our experiment (see Fig.
2).

In the absence of any present theory which could explain the observed
behavior, we discuss below another mechanism which in our opinion could
lead to low-temperature deviations from the WHH theory. In the presence
of Landau quantization the magnetic field not only suppresses the
superconductivity but may also result in its partial enhancement due to
an increase in the density of states at the bottom of Landau
levels.22-24 For such enhancement to take place, several rather strict
conditions have to be met. First, the Landau splitting ℏΩ has to be
larger than temperature so that the total number of states in the energy
interval T near the Fermi level could be increased significantly in high
fields. This means in particular that the "bare" value
$H_{\rm WHH}(T = 0)$ which is determined in the WHH theory by values of
T_(c) and (dH_(c2)/dT)_(T = T_(c)), has to be large enough. Our material
as well as other high-T_(c) superconductors are good candidates from
this point of view. For K_(x)Ba_(1 − x)BiO₃, the value of
$H_{\rm WHH}(0)$ is about 10 T (see Fig. 2). The scattering frequency
1/τ has to be also small compared to both the Larmour frequency Ω and
temperature T

ℏ/τ ≈ ℏΩ.

Otherwise, the broadening of sharp features in the density of states by
scattering would destroy any possible enhancement of superconductivity.

A further limitation is due to Zeeman splitting which

Figure 2: Temperature dependence of the upper critical field in
K_(x)Ba_(1 − x)BiO₃. The solid circle is the lower limit for H_(c2) at
4.2 K. The solid line is quadratic function (1). The dashed line is the
function h_(c2)(t) which follows from the WHH theory. The right scale is
normalized to the value T_(c)(−dH_(c2)/dT)_(T = T_(c)) which is used as
a parameter in the function h_(c2)(t).

leads to two Landau ladders, $\mbox{\boldmath$\epsilon$}_{n}^{-}$ and
$\mbox{\boldmath$\epsilon$}_{n}^{+}$ instead of one. Because of the
splitting, the Fermi level $\mbox{\boldmath$\epsilon$}_{F}$ can
coincides with only one spin-polarized Landau level at any one time. As
a result, the density of states increases only for half of electrons
which has the privileged spin direction. Even if the effective g factor
is precisely equal to 2, Landau levels for opposite spin directions,
$\mbox{\boldmath$\epsilon$}_{n}^{-}$ and
$\mbox{\boldmath$\epsilon$}_{n}^{+}$ which cross the Fermi energy
simultaneously, have different indices n = n^(′) and electrons at these
levels have different spatial dependence of the corresponding
wavefunctions. This leads to suppression of electron pairing and
superconductivity. However, according to Spivak and Zhou,[25] in the
presence of Zeeman splitting the disorder may play an important role and
help the pairing of electrons. The disorder gives rise to a random
potential $V({\bf r})$ which varies the position of the two Landau
ladders relatively the Fermi level. Therefore, there are spatially
separated regions in the vicinity of some points ${\bf r}_{-}$ and
${\bf r}_{+}$ where Landau levels with the same n but with opposite spin
directions are at the Fermi level:

$$\mbox{\boldmath$\epsilon$}_{F}\!\!=\!\mbox{\boldmath$\epsilon$}_{n}^{-}+V({\bf r }_{-}),\quad\mbox{\boldmath$\epsilon$}_{F}\!\!=\!\mbox{\boldmath$\epsilon$}_{n }^{+}+V({\bf r}_{+}).$$
(3)

If such regions are found at a distance $|{\bf r}_{-}-{\bf r}_{+}|$
smaller than the coherence length ξ₀, superconducting droplets of the
size ξ₀ appear. The number of the droplets is determined by a
probability of finding such favorable regions at a given random
potential $V({\bf r})$.

The pairing condition (3) can be satisfied in some regions at any
magnetic field. When the field is changed, the two sets of points,
${\bf r}_{-}$ and ${\bf r}_{+}$, move in space and so do the
superconducting droplets. In this model there are no preferable values
of the magnetic field and this rules out any Shubnikov-de-Haas-like
oscillations in T_(c2)(T) or other thermodynamics quantities which could
be expected in the ideal case.[23, 26] On the other hand, the enhanced
superconductivity is not homogeneous: it exists inside some cluster
which volume and specific pattern both depend on the field. The
superconducting volume is expected to decrease with increasing magnetic
field, in agreement with the behavior in Fig. 1 where the magnetic
moment χ^(′) saturates at low temperatures to decreasingly lower
absolute values as the magnetic field increases. The increase in H_(c2)
due to disorder is compensated by the decrease in the bulk
superconducting response.

The discussed model contains two opposing requirements for the disorder.
On the one hand, to maintain the increase in the density of states,
inequality (2) should be valid. On the other hand, fluctuations of the
random potential on the ξ₀ scale should be larger than Zeeman splitting.
It is easier to meet these two requirements if the disorder potential
$V({\bf r})$ is dominated by relatively long-range fluctuations: the
scattering is not so effective in this case. Again, high-T_(c)
superconductors are good candidates for having such type of random
potential. Their carrier density depends on the doping level which
cannot fluctuate on a very short range. At the same time, fluctuations
of the carrier density on the scale of the order of ξ₀ are expected even
in high-quality scale crystals. In our samples, the potassium
concentration is likely to be such slightly fluctuating parameter which
determines the random potential $V({\bf r})$.

If the speculation about the quantization enhancement of the
superconductivity is valid, the ratio T/ℏ Ω is expected to be the major
parameter which determines enhancement of the upper critical field.
Figure 3 presents our experimental data in the corresponding form. Here,
the enhancement of the upper critical field H_(c2) (compared to the
value $H_{\rm WHH}$) is plotted against T/ℏ Ω. The Larmour frequency Ω
was calculated from the measured H_(c2) using the free-electron mass.
For simplicity, the experimental dependence H_(c2)(T) is taken in the
form (1). The obtained function has quite a sensible form from the point
of view of the discussed physics: when the parameter T/ℏ Ω reaches 1
there is a reasonable enhancement of H_(c2)(T) by a factor of about 1.5.
The tendency of the function of Fig. 3 to diverge when the argument
tends to zero corresponds remarkably to what one could expect within the
framework of models.[25, 25] Unfortunately, Refs. [23] and [25] do not
give any expression for H_(c2)(T) to compare it with our experimental
curve.

The discussed model can also explain a qualitative observation of
Affronte _et al.[15]_ that H_(c2) at low temperatures depends on the
crystal quality. While their ’most metallic samples’ had the upper
critical field H_(c2) of about 25 T at 2 K, a sample with 15 times
larger resistivity in the normal state remained superconducting, at
least partly, up to 32 T. This is in agreement with our suggestion that
the random potential is an important factor effecting the value H_(c2).

In conclusion, we have found a non-WHH behavior of the superconductivity
in K_(x)Ba_(1 − x)BiO₃ single crystals and attribute it to the presence
of Landau quantization which becomes important in superconductors with a
high value of the critical field.

One of the authors (V.F.G.) gratefully acknowledges the hospitality of
the staff of High Field Magnet Laboratory of the University of Nijmegen
where the high-field experiments were performed. The work was supported
by the Russian Fund for Fundamental Research and the Large Installation
Plan program of the European Community.

Figure 3: Enhancement of H_(c2) vs the ratio of temperature to Landau
splitting.

* [1] N. R. Werthamer, E. Helfand, and C. Hohenberg, Phys. Rev. **147**,
295 (1966). * [2] M. Tenhover, W. L. Johnson, and C. C. Tsuei, Solid
State Commun. **38**, 53 (1981). * [3] G. S. Boebinger _et al._, Phys.
Rev. B **46**, 5876 (1992). * [4] F. Creuset _et al._, Phys. Lett.
**46**, L1079 (1985). * [5] L. Fabrega _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **46**,
5581 (1992). * [6] M. C. de Andrade, Physica C **184**, 378 (1991);
Phys. Rev. Lett. **64**, 599 (1990). * [7] A. P. Mackenzie _et al._,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **71**, 1238 (1993). * [8] M. S. Osofsky _et al._,
Phys. Rev. Lett. **71**, 2315 (1993). * [9] B. Batlogg _et al._, Phys.
Rev. Lett. **61**, 1670 (1988). * [10] U. Welp, _et al._, Physica C
**156**, 27 (1988). * [11] Z. J. Huang _et al._, Physica C **180**, 331
(1991). * [12] N. Savvides _et al._, Physica C **171**, 181 (1990). *
[13] D. Shi _et al._, Phys. Rev. B **43**, 3684 (1991). * [14] N. V.
Anshukova _et al._, Zh. Eksp. Teor. Fiz. **97**, 1635 (1990) [Sov. Phys.
JETP **70**, 923 (1990)]. * [15] M. Affronte _et al._, Phys. Rev. B
**49**, 3502 (1994). * [16] L. A. Klinkova, N. V. Barkovskii, S. A.
Zver’kov, and D. A. Gusev, Superconductivity **7**, 1437 (1994). * [17]
N. Hamada, S. Massidda, and A. J. Freeman, Phys. Rev. B **40**,4442
(1989). * [18] L. N. Bulaevski and O. V. Dolgov, Pis’ma Zh. Eksp. Teor.
Fiz. **45**, 413 (1987) [JETP Lett. **45**, 526 (1987)]. * [19] J. F.
Zasadinski _et al._, Physica C **162**- **164**, 1053 (1989). * [20] H.
Sato, H. Takagi, and S. Uchida, Physica C **169**, 391 (1990). * [21] A.
Kapitulnik and O. Kotlyar, Phys. Rev. B **33**, 3146 (1986). * [22] L.
W. Gruenberg and L. Gunter, Phys. Rev. **176**, 606 (1968). * [23] M.
Rasolt and Z. Tesanovic, Rev. Mod. Phys. **64**, 709 (1992). * [24] T.
Maniv, A. Rom, I. D. Vagner, and P. Wyder, Phys. Rev. B **46**, 8360
(1992). * [25] B. Spivak and F. Zhou, Phys. Rev. Lett. **74**, 2800
(1995). * [26] M. R. Norman, A. H. MacDonald, and H. Akera, Phys. Rev. B
**51**, 5927 (1995).
