# Superconductivity in the complex metallic alloy β-Al₃Mg₂

E. Bauer, H. Kaldarar, R. Lackner, H. Michor, and W. Steiner

Institut fur Festkorperphysik, Technische Universitat Wien, A-1040 Wien,
Austria

E.-W. Scheidt

Lehrstuhl fur Chemische Physik und Materialwissenschaften, Universitat
Augsburg, D-86159 Augsburg, Germany

A. Galatanu

National Institute for Materials Physics, 77125 Magurele, Romania

F. Marabelli

Physics Department "A. Volta," University of Pavia, I-27100 Pavia, Italy

T. Wazumi and K. Kumagai

Division of Physics, Graduate School of Science, Hokkaido University,
Sapporo 060-0810, Japan

M. Feuerbacher

Forschungszentrum Julich GmbH, D-52425 Julich, Germany

19 March 2007200

## II Experiment

The samples investigated here belong to the same batch of material as
described in Ref. 6. Pieces of _b_-Al3Mg2 were cut from a single crystal
grown according to the flux-growth technique.[8] After the growth
process, the samples were subjected to a heat treatment at 190 deg C for
48 h, ensuring that they are in the low temperature trigonal phase. All
investigations described in this study were carried out below room
temperature.

Bulk properties of _b_-Al3Mg2 were studied in the temperature range from
100 mK up to room temperature. Field and temperature dependent
resistivity was measured in a 3He cryostat (400 mK up to 100 K) in
fields up to 12 T and in a standard He cryostat from 4.2 K to room
temperature. Heat capacity studies were performed at temperatures
ranging from 1.5 K up to 120 K by means of a quasidadiabatic step
heating technique. Specific heat data were also collected at
temperatures down to about 100 mK in a 3He/4He cryostat using a
relaxation method.[9] Optical reflectivity at room temperature has been
measured over the spectral range from 16 meV up to 6 eV. Spectroscopic
ellipsometry has been used from 1.4 to 5 eV. 27Al-NMR was performed with
a pulse Fourier transform spectrometer in a superconducting magnet of
9.4 T between 300 and 4.3 K.

## III Results and Discussion

### Bulk properties

The temperature dependent electrical resistivity _r_(_T_) of _b_-Al3Mg2
is shown in Fig. 1(a). As an overall feature, _r_(_T_) of _b_-Al3Mg2
exhibits a residual resistivity ratio of about 1.16 only, with a
residual resistivity r0 = 33 _m_O cm. The latter can be considered as
evidence of significant intrinsic disorder, originated by distinct
features of the crystal structure and/or reduced carrier density. In
agreement with previous results of Dolinsek _et al._,[7] the resistivity
at low temperatures follows roughly a power law with r = r0 + _AT_2,
implying electron-electron interaction in metals. At more elevated
temperatures, however, the resistivity of _b_-Al3Mg2 is characterized by
a strong curvature, which cannot be accounted for in terms of standard
models for metallic compounds. Particularly, the Bloch-Gruneisen law
fails to describe the interaction of electrons with thermally excited
phonons in _b_-Al3Mg2. Rather, the overall _r_(_T_) dependence of
_b_-Al3Mg2 follows the model of Woodward and Cody,[10] which initially
was applied to A15 superconductors such as Nb3Sn. This model reads

ρ = ρ₀ + ρ₁T + ρ₂exp (−T₀/T),

where r0 is the residual resistivity; r1, r2, and T0 are material
dependent parameters. The second and third terms of Eq. (1) represent
the high and low temperature limits of the occupation number of a
particular phonon, which assists in interband scattering according to
Wilson’s model.[11] A more detailed discussion on the temperature
dependent resistivity of various superconductors in the normal state
region is also given in Ref. 11. A least squares fit of Eq. (1) to the
experimental data of _b_-Al3Mg2 is shown in Fig. 1 as a solid line,
revealing excellent agreement between the model and data for r0 = 33.3
_m_O cm, r1 = 0.0035 _m_O cm/K, r2 = 5.64 _m_O cm, and T0 = 95 K.

Measurements performed below 4 K [inset, Fig. 1(a)] demonstrate that
_b_-Al3Mg2 undergoes a sharp superconducting transition around 0.9 K.
The application of a magnetic field lowers the transition temperature
which finally becomes suppressed at the upper critical field m0_H_c2(0)
= 0.14 T. These data allow to establish the temperature dependence of
m0_H_c2, displayed in Fig. 1(b). In comparison, superconductivity of
pure fcc Al is characterized by _T_c = 1.14 K and a critical field
m0_H_c(0) = 0.0105 T (type I superconductor). Superconductivity was not
yet found for Mg.

Werthamer _et al._[12] derived an expression for the upper critical
field _H_c2(0) in terms of orbital pair breaking, including the effect
of Pauli spin paramagnetism and spin-orbit scattering. For dirty limit
superconductors, _H_c2(0) follows from

H_(c2)(0) = 0.69|H_(c2)^(′)|T_(c).

Equation (2) corresponds to a = 0 and l_(o) = 0, where a is the Maki
parameter and l_(o) the spin-orbit scattering parameter. The latter has
been shown to increase with increasing atomic numbers of the composing
elements[13] and is thus expected to be small for _b_-Al3Mg2. The Maki
parameter a can be estimated via the Sommerfeld value of the specific
heat g and the residual resistivity r0.[12]

$$\alpha = \frac{3e^{2}\hbar\gamma\rho_{0}}{2m\pi^{2}k_{B}^{2}},$$

with e the electron charge and m the electron mass. Taking the
experimental residual resistivity and the Sommerfeld value (see below)
yields a = 0.11. Note that a similar value can be derived from[14]

Figure 1: (Color online) (a) Temperature dependent electrical
resistivity r of _β_-Al3Mg2. The solid line is a least squares fit
according to Eq. (1). The inset shows the onset of a superconducting
transition at _T
$$\alpha = 5.3 \times 10^{- 5}\left.\left[\frac{-\,dH_{c2}(T)}{dT}\right] \right|_{T=T_{c}} = 0.12,$$
(4)

for an initial slope of the upper critical field μ_(O)H_(c2)^(′) = -0.23
T/K [compare Fig. 1(a)]. Regarding the concerned lightweight elements Al
and Mg, as well as α = 0.1, we used α = 0 and λ_(so)=0 for a description
of H_(c2)(T) of β-Al₃Mg₂. Results are shown as dashed line in Fig. 1(b),
revealing μ_(O)H_(c2)(0) = 0.143 T and a reasonable agreement with the
experimental data.

Orbital pair breaking is the most relevant mechanism in the low field
limit and therefore determines H_(c2)^(′). The Maki parameter α = 0.1 of
β-Al₃Mg₂ corresponds with a dominating orbital field, while for α → ∞,
orbital limiting can be neglected. Then, Pauli limiting would allow for
an upper critical field of more than 1 T.

Measurements of the temperature dependent specific heat C_(p) of
β-Al₃Mg₂ evidence superconductivity as bulk effect, not originated from
spurious phases. Results are shown in Fig. 2.

The heat capacity C_(p) of β-Al₃Mg₂ is plotted in the main panel of Fig.
2 as C_(p)/T vs T for temperatures T>T_(c). Applying the standard
analysis to the low temperature data yields a Sommerfeld coefficient
γ=6.6 mJ/mol K² and a Debye temperature θ_(D)=373 K. The Debye
temperatures of the light-weight elements Al and Mg are 394 and 318 K,
respectively. A weighted average of these temperatures roughly coincides
with θ_(D) of β-Al₃Mg₂. Debye temperatures of similar magnitude were
previously reported for related icosahedral cluster substructures based
on Al.[15] The Sommerfeld values of Al and Mg are 1.35 and 1.3 mJ/mol
K², respectively, yielding an average of 1.33 mJ/g at K². In comparison,
β-Al₃Mg₂ results in 1.21 mJ/g at K². However, it should be noted that
the above outlined analysis for T>T_(c) holds only for a very narrow
temperature range, indicating that the simple Debye model is
insufficient to adequately describe the phonon dynamics of this system.
A more elaborate model takes into account a more realistic phonon
density of states (see below).

Within the McMillan model, both quantities together, i.e., γ and θ_(D),
determine the superconducting transition temperature T_(c).[16]

$$T_{c} = \frac{\theta_{D}}{1.45}\exp\left[\frac{-\,1.04(1+\lambda)}{\lambda -\mu_{c}^{*}(1+0.62\lambda)}\right],$$
(5)

with λ as a dimensionless electron-phonon coupling constant, related in
terms of the Eliashberg theory to the phonon density of states. λ
determines the attractive part of the Cooper pair bonding, while μ^(*)
is the repulsive screened Coulomb part, frequently set to =0.13.
Applying this simple model yields λ = 0.42, indicating a weakly coupled
superconductor.

The inset of Fig. 2 summarizes the heat capacity measurement below 1.5
K. Clearly observable is the specific heat anomaly below 1 K, which, in
agreement to the resistivity data, is considered as a signature of bulk
superconductivity. Idealization of the heat capacity anomaly under the
constraint of entropy balance between the superconducting and the normal
state yields T_(c) = 0.87 K. The jump of the specific heat
$\Delta C_{p}/T(T = T_{c}) = 8.5 mJ/mol K\({}^{2}$ allows calculation of
the parameter ΔC_(p)/(γ_(n)T_(c)) = 1.41, which matches closely the
figure expected from BCS theory [ΔC_(p)/(γT_(c)) = 1.43]. BCS-type
superconductivity follows also from an application of the data set of
Muhlschlegel[17] to the heat capacity results of β-Al₃Mg₂. Results of
this procedure are shown as a solid line in the inset of Fig. 2,
revealing fine agreement with the fully gapped BCS superconductivity.
Applying the BCS formula for the electronic contribution to the specific
heat well below T_(c), i.e.,

$$C_{es} = 8.5\gamma T_{c}\exp\left[-\,0.82\frac{\Delta_{BCS}(0)}{k_{B}T} \right],$$
(6)

reveals a gap width Δ_(BCS)(0) of the order of 1.5 K, as well as γ = 6.5
mJ/mol K², in excellent agreement with the Sommerfeld value deduced from
the normal state region. This gap width is also consistent with
Δ = 1.76T_(c) = 1.58 K, if Δ is expressed in kelvin. The thermodynamic
critical field is calculated from the free energy difference between the
superconducting and normal states:
$\Delta F(T) = F_{n} - F_{s} = \mu_{0}H_{c}^{2}(T)/2 = \int_{T_{c}}^{T}\frac{f_{c}^{\prime\prime}\left( \frac{C_{p}-C_{s}}{T_{c}}\right)}{T^{\prime\prime}}dT^{\prime}$.
C_(s)(T) is obtained from the zero field specific heat measurement and
C_(s)(T) is taken from an extrapolation of the normal state specific
heat by C_(n)(T) = γT + βT³. The value μ₀H_(c)(0) ≈ 7.6(2) mT obtained
for β-Al₃Mg₂ is slightly reduced as compared to Al with
μ₀H_(c)(0) ≈ 10.5 mT, approximately by the same factor as T_(c).

In order to obtain more aspects on the lattice dynamics of β-Al₃Mg₂, we
employ in Fig. 3 a (C_(p) − γT)/T³ vs ln T representation. This
particular representation allows us to emphasize deviations from the
simple Debye model, which, at low temperatures, follows Cp ∝ T³. Note
that the Sommerfeld value extrapolated from the normal state region, γ

Figure 2: (Color online) Temperature dependent specific heat C_(p) of
β-Al₃Mg₂ plotted as C_(p)/T vs T. The inset shows low temperature heat
capacity data, evidencing bulk superconductivity. The solid line adjusts
the numerical data of Muhlschlegel (Ref. [17]) to the present
experiment.

=6.6 mJ/mol K2, is subtracted in this plot. Obviously, the heat capacity
of _b_-Al3Mg2 deviates from a Debye-like behavior almost in the entire
temperature range studied.

The deviations from the simple Debye model imply a rather complicated
phonon spectrum present in this compound. In order to qualitatively and
quantitatively describe the lattice dynamics, we have adapted a model
which incorporates some fine structure in the phonon density of states
(see Refs. [18] and [19]). The latter is represented by a spectral
function _F_(_o_), allowing to express the heat capacity as

$$C_{ph}(T) = 3R{\int_{0}^{\infty}}F(\omega)\frac{\left(\frac{\omega}{2T}\right)^{2}}{{\sinh^{2}}\left(\frac{\omega}{2T}\right)}d\omega,$$
(7)

with o the phonon frequency and R the gas constant. The most common
assumptions on _F_(_o_) are _F_(_o_) = _d_(_o_) and _F_(_o_) = o2 up to
a cut-off frequency o_(D), corresponding to the well known Einstein and
Debye models, respectively. Junod _et al._[19] demonstrated that certain
functionals of the phonon specific heat take the form of convolutions of
the phonon spectrum. Particularly, (5/4)_R_p_4_C_ph_T_3 is an image of
the spectrum _o_-2_F_(_o_) for _o_=4.93T, where o is expressed in
kelvin. Based on these considerations, we have constructed an elementary
phonon spectrum and have carried out least squares fits to the data. In
the first approximation, we have assumed that besides a Debye density of
states, the system is composed of two additional, energetically
separated Einstein-like modes. However, different to standard Einstein
models of the specific heat, a certain frequency width for each Einstein
branch is allowed. Results of this procedure are shown in Fig. 3. The
overall goodness of the fit is extremely high (_r_2=0.999), revealing a
Debye temperature _th__D_=354 K, in well agreement with the above
indicated low temperature estimation. Two block-shaped Einstein-like
contributions are derived, centered at _o__E_21=55 K and _o__E_22=150 K,
with corresponding spectral widths of 14 and 116 K, respectively. Based
on this fit, the phonon spectrum is constructed and plotted in Fig. 3,
referring to the right axis (solid line). The spectral weight follows
from the advisement that for _T_=0, the height of the phonon density of
states coincides with the extrapolated value of _C__p_/_T_3 for T - 0.
Both contributions have different spectral weights; the height of these
contributions appears to be small sized, implying only to weaker
corrections of a Debye spectrum. The substantial width of the upper
Einstein-like contribution may represent the complex phonon DOS composed
from a superposition of various single Einstein modes, in line with the
exceptionally complex crystal structure of _b_-Al3Mg2. Such an
extraordinary width of phonon branches was not found in other
complicated structured materials such as cage-forming compounds like
skutterudites and clathrates.[20]

Optical reflectivity was Kramers-Kronig (KK) transformed to obtain both
the real and the imaginary part of the dielectric function, _ε_1 and
_ε_2, respectively. Ellipsometric data were used to correct the effects
of light scattering at the highest energies and to check the results of
KK. Results are shown in Fig. 4. The spectrum exhibits a typical
metallic behavior, allowing to use the Drude model; appropriate formulas
are shown in Fig. 4. One Lorentz oscillator has been added to account
for some deficiencies of the model at the largest energies and improve
the fit result in this region. This additional oscillator can be
ascribed to interband transitions, likely to occur in a complex system
such as _b_-Al3Mg2. The spectral weight of this contribution is small
(_b_=4 eV, G =2.3 eV, o0=0.9 eV) and does not affect the values of the
Drude term. The plasma frequency _b_o_0, turns out to be 9.4 eV and the
scattering term _b_γ = 0.43 eV corresponds to a relatively low
scattering time _τ_=1.53 x 10-15 s. Taking into account the Drude model
for conductivity results in s0 = _o__p_2/(4_π_γ_*) =4.48 x 10-16 s-1,
corresponding to a room temperature resistivity _r__RT_=37 u Ω cm. The
latter is in excellent agreement with the static resistivity data
[compare Fig. 1(a)], consolidating the analysis presented.

In order to evaluate the effective mass m of the charge carriers of
_b_-Al3Mg2 from the plasma frequency, we have

Figure 4: (Color online) Optical reflectivity and complex dielectric
function of _β_-Al3Mg2.

Figure 3: (Color online) Temperature dependent specific heat C_(p) of
_β_-Al3Mg2, plotted as (C_(p) −γ_T_)/_T_3 vs ln T. The dashed line is a
least squares fit of the experimental data using the model described in
the text with two Einstein modes _ωE_21=55 K with width of 14 K and
_ωE_22=150 K with width of 116 K. The Debye temperature _θ_0=354 K. The
solid line sketches the phonon spectral function _F_(_o_) plotted as
(5/4)_R_π_α_α_α_2-_F_(_o_) vs _ω_/4.93, where _ω_ is given in kelvin.

carried out Hall effect measurements, yielding an almost constant value
n = 1.5 x 1023 cm-3 for temperatures below 100 K. Using

$$\omega_{p}^{2} = \frac{4\pi me^{2}}{m},$$

with e the electron charge, allows estimation of the effective mass m.
With _h_o__p_ = 9.4 eV and _m_’ = _m_/_m__e_ (m_(e) is the electron
mass), it follows that _n_/_m_’ = 0.64 x 1023 cm-3. In the context of
the Hall carrier density, the mass enhancement _m_’ is then of the order
of 2. Inspecting data of the pure elements reveals _n_Al = 1.8 x 1023
cm-3 and _n_Mg = 0.86 x 1023 cm-3; an average would then be n_(v) = 1.5
x 1023 cm-3. This coincidence suggests that the electronic structure of
_b_-Al3Mg2 does not differ substantially from a superposition of the
electronic structures of the constituent elements. A very recent study
of the electronic structure of _b_-Al3Mg2 using soft x-ray spectroscopy,
however, evidenced a _d_-state-like feature near the Fermi energy,
absent in pure Al, as well as Mg.21 This may then explain the effective
charge carrier mass _m_’ 2.

Some information on the electronic structure of _b_-Al3Mg2 can be gained
from NMR studies as well. Data on polycrystalline _b_-Al3Mg2 were
recently reported by Dolinsek _et al._, 7 while the present study is
made on single crystalline _b_-Al3Mg2.

A narrow NMR spectrum of the central +-1/2 +- +- 1/2 transition for I =
5/2 nuclear spin of 27Al was observed. The full width at half intensity
amounts to 14 kHz at m0_H_ = 9.4 T, being temperature independent.
Besides, a broadened spectrum of the quadrupole split satellite with
small intensity around the central line is obvious from the inset of
Fig. 5. The spectrum extends over a frequency interval of about 300 kHz,
and the nuclear quadrupole frequency n0[= 3e2_q_Q_/2_I_(2I - 1)] amounts
to about 250 kHz. Here, q is the electrical field gradient and Q is the
nuclear quadrupole moment. These observations imply the existence of a
nonvanishing electric field gradient at the Al site and corroborates the
low symmetric environment around Al, as expected from the complex
structure of _b_-Al3Mg2.

Figure 5 shows the temperature dependent Knight shift determined from
the peak position. As the second order quadrupole shift of the central
line is negligibly small, the shift derives purely from magnetic
origins. The nearly symmetric shape of the spectrum shows that the
anisotropy of the Knight shift is very small. The Knight shift is almost
temperature independent between 4.3 and 300 K, as shown in Fig. 5, and
amounts to +0.135

The measurements of the NMR nuclear spin-lattice relaxation rate T1 were
done by the method of saturation of the central line and a subsequent
monitoring of the nuclear magnetization recovery _M_(_t_) at variable
delay times t. The relaxation rate defined as 1/_T_1 = 2W, where W
represents the spectral density of the fluctuating internal magnetic
fields, was extracted by fitting the data to the recovery function,
_M_(_t_)/_M_(_o_) = 1 - exp[-(2_W_t_)1/2], which is obtained for the
case that T1 is widely distributed.23 Least squares fits yield good
agreement in the entire temperature range. These results are presented
in Fig. 6 as 1/_T_1T vs T (main panel) and 1/_T_1 vs T (in the inset).
Contrary to the relaxation rate expected for a metal, where T1_T_
remains constant, 1/_T_1T of _b_-Al3Mg2 increases with decreasing
temperature. Additionally, a cusp-type anomaly is observed around 58 K
and 1/_T_1T rapidly rises below that temperature. This suggests
contributions from dynamical features of the electron-electron
interaction, becoming enhanced at low temperature. A plot of the data
according to 1/_T_1 vs T (inset of Fig. 6)

Figure 5: (Color online) Temperature dependence of the Knight shift
(27Al) of _β_-Al3Mg2 at H = 9.4 T. The inset shows the 27Al spectrum at
10 K.

Figure 6: Temperature dependence of the nuclear spin-lattice relaxation
rate of _β_-Al3Mg2. The main panel displays 1/_T_1T vs T and the inset
shows a 1/_T_1 vs T plot. The broken line refers to a T1_T_ =const
relation.

reveals additional intensity below ≈200 K, with a broad peak around 58
K.

The principal relaxation mechanism of the ²⁷Al nucleus is the
Fermi-contact interaction, also dominating the Al Knight shift. For a
metal with s electrons, 1/_T_1T is directly proportional to the square
of LDOS, i.e., 1/_T_1_T_c_k_B_N_(_E_F_)2. The value of 1/_T_1_T_=0.1 (s
K)-1 obtained at the high temperature limit, apart from the additional
contribution below 250 K (shown by the broken line in the inset of Fig.
6), is also comparable with pure Al metal. Thus, NMR results suggest
that the DOS of β-Al3Mg2 compound is close (at most 50

At present, the origin of the anomalous enhancement of 1/_T_1 with
decreasing temperature, which is only observed in 1/_T_1 but not in
Knight shift, remains unclear. Its dynamical features, however, remain
without relevance for static magnetic qualities.

### Superconducting and normal state parameters of β-Al3Mg2

The above indicated values of the thermodynamic and the upper critical
field, _H_c(0) ≈ 7.6 mT and _H_c2(0) ≈ 0.14 T, are used to calculate the
ratio of the spatial variation length of the local magnetic field
$\lambda_{\rm GL}(0)$ to the coherence length $\xi_{\rm GL}(0)$ via
Abrikosov’s relation $\lambda_{\rm GL}(0)/\xi_{\rm GL}(0)$ = _k_GL(0) =
_H_c2/[$\sqrt{2}H_{c}(0)$] yielding the Ginzburg-Landau parameter
_k_GL=13(2) for β-Al3Mg2.

The absolute values of the coherence length ξ₀ and the penetration depth
λ(0) can be evaluated with the basic equations of the isotropic
Ginzburg-Landau-Abrikosov-Gor’kov theory:

$$\kappa(T)=\frac{2\pi\sqrt[2]{2}\mu_{0}H_{c}(T)\lambda_{\rm GL}^{2}(T)}{\Phi_{0}}$$
(9)

and

$$\mu_{0}H_{c2}(T)=\frac{\Phi_{0}}{2\pi\xi_{\rm GL}^{2}(T)},$$
(10)

with Φ₀=_h_/2e, the fluxoid quantum. The values obtained thereby are
$\lambda_{\rm GL}(0)$=
_k_$\sqrt[\frac{\Phi_{0}}{2\pi\mu_{0}H_{c2}}$=5.3×10⁻⁷ m and
$\xi_{\rm GL}(0)$≈ 4.85×10⁻⁸ m. The very large value of κ≈ 13 as
compared to κ∼ 0.03 for pure Al (Ref. 26) is, at least partially, a
consequence of the largely reduced mean free path, as inferred from the
large residual resistivity ρ₀=33.3 _m_D cm of β-Al3Mg2. Using the
Gor’kov-Goodman relation,²⁷κ= κ₀ + 0.0237$\sqrt{\gamma}\rho_{0}$, where
κ₀ is the clean limit value of the Ginzburg-Landau parameter, g is the
Sommerfeld coefficient in units of J/m³ K², and ρ₀ is the residual
resistivity in _m_Ω cm, yields κ ≈ 8.3 if κ₀∼ $\kappa_{\rm Al}$. The
experimental value κ≈ 13 provides a rough estimate of κ₀∼ 5 for β-Al3Mg2
in the hypothetical clean limit case.

In the following, we estimate a set of typical parameters from an
analysis of superconducting and normal state properties in terms of the
BCS theory,²⁴ assuming a spherical Fermi surface. Starting parameters
are γ_(s)=0.0066 J/mol K², μ₀H_(c2)^(′)=−0.2 T/K, μ₀H_(c2)^(′)(0) ≈ 0.14
T, and ρ₀=33.3 _m_D cm. The transition temperature into the
superconducting ground state as observed from heat capacity data is 0.87
K.

The effective Fermi surface $\rm S_{s}^{\rm f}$ is computed^(24, 25) as
$S_{s}^{\rm f/f}$≃ 2.1 × 10²⁰ m⁻² for the dirty limit. Within this
limit, μ₀H_(c2)^(′)(calc) = 4490γρ₀= −0.16 T/K, well in agreement with
the experimental data [compare Fig. 1(b)]. Combining the Fermi surface
with γ_(s) gives the Fermi velocity υ_(F)≈ 36 600 m/s and in the context
of the residual resistivity ρ₀=33.3 _m_Ω cm, a mean free path l_(tr)≈
5.5 × 10⁻⁸ m can be derived. The coherence length ξ₀ for T→ 0 follows
from the BCS equation, ξ₀=0.18υ_(F)l_(tr)/(k_(B)T_(c)) ≈ 5.6 × 10⁻⁸ m. κ
can be derived from κ=529H_(c2)^(′)/γ_(s)^(1/2)≈ 10.2, while the London
penetration depth follows from λ_(L)(0)= 5.04 × 10¹²γ_(s)^(1/2)/S_(s)=
6.3 × 10⁻⁷ m. In spite of the very complex crystalline structure of
β-Al3Mg2, the system does not behave like typical amorphous
superconductors^(28, 29) since both the coherence length and the mean
free path are almost one order of magnitude larger than the largest unit
cell dimension of β-Al3Mg2. Additionally, amorphous superconductors are
characterized by an extended linearity of _H_c2(_T_), while H_(c2)(_T_)
of β-Al3Mg2, within the experimental resolution, is rather curvilinear.

The parameters κ, ξ₀, and λ_(L)(0), evaluated from the upper and the
thermodynamic critical field, excellently agree with model calculations
based on the free electron model. This allows to conclude that, although
the crystal structure of β-Al3Mg2 is rather complicated, the relevant
parts of the electronic structure remain rather isotropic. The fact that
l_(tr)/ξ≈ 1 classifies β-Al3Mg2 as a dirty limit superconductor, while
κ≈ 13 indicates type II superconducting behavior.

## IV Summary

Based on low temperature electrical resistivity and specific heat
measurements, we have shown that β-Al3Mg2 undergoes a phase transition
into a superconducting ground state at _T_c = 0.87 K. Microscopically,
superconductivity can be understood in terms of the phonon-mediated BCS
model. An exponential behavior of the specific heat well below _T_c
implies a nodeless superconducting gap in the electronic density of
states, of the order of Δ ≈ 1.6 K. The initial slope of the upper
critical field is deduced as μ₀H_(c2)^(′)= −0.2 T/K, while an
extrapolation T→ 0 yields μ₀H_(c2)(0)= 0.14 T. The limiting pair
breaking mechanism seems to be orbital pair breaking, as concluded from
the model of Werthamer _et al.¹²_

Superconductivity in β-Al3Mg2 occurs in a crystal environment without
inversion symmetry. Broken inversion symmetry has a distinct influence
on the superconducting phase, which usually relies on the formation of
pairs of electrons in degenerate states with opposite momentum. The
availability of such states is normally guaranteed by time reversal and
inversion symmetries.^(30, 31) The absence of inversion symmetry would
favor a strong antisymmetric spin-orbit coupling and, as a consequence,
a mixture of spin-singlet and spin-triplet pairs in the superconducting
condensate can be expected.³² The small values of the upper critical
field, however, seem to exclude a substantial portion of spin-triplet
pairs in the condensate. Moreover, the lightweight elements Al and Mg
may be responsible for only a minimal spin-orbit coupling in β-Al3Mg2;
hence, the spin-singlet condensate dominates. Additionally, the very
complex crystal structure is supposed to smooth the effect of the
missing inversion symmetry. A rather conventional superconductivity
seems to appear, which also follows from the agreement of the upper
critical field with Werthamer’s model. Presently, only a small number of
superconductors without inversion symmetry have been found. For a recent
review on this subject, see, e.g., Ref. [33].

Although the crystal structure of β-Al₃Mg₂ appears to be rather
complicated, the various physical quantities derived in both the
superconducting and the normal state region turn out to be simple. In
the first approximation, some of these quantities even look like a
balanced superposition of pure Al and Mg. The latter follows from
macroscopic measurements such as the specific heat and microscopic data
like those derived from NMR as well.

###### Acknowledgements.

This work was supported by the European Network of Excellence on Complex
Metallic Alloys supported by EU under Contract No. NMP3-CT-2005-500140,
by the Austrian Science Foundation, Project No. FWF-P-18054, and by the
Romanian Project Ceex M3-204/2006.

## References

* [1] L. Pauling, J. Am. Chem. Soc. **45**, 2777 (1923). * [2] G.
Bergman, J. L. T. Waugh, and L. Pauling, Acta Crystallogr. **10**, 254
(1957). * [3] M. Boudard, H. Klein, M. de Boissieu, M. Audier, and H.
Vincent, Philos. Mag. A **74**, 939 (1996). * [4] K. Urban and M.
Feuerbacher, J. Non-Cryst. Solids **334-335**, 143 (2004). * [5] S.
Samson, Acta Crystallogr. **19**, 401 (1965). * [6] M. Feuerbacher _et
al._, Z. Kristallogr. **222**, 259 (2007). * [7] J. Dolinsek _et al._,
Intermetallics **15**, 1367 (2007). * [8] M. Lipinska-Chwalek, S.
Balanetskyy, C. Thomas, S. Roitsch, and M. Feuerbacher, Intermetallics
(to be published). * [9] R. Bachmann _et al._, Rev. Sci. Instrum.
**43**, 205 (1972). * [10] D. W. Woodward and G. D. Cody, Phys. Rev.
**136**, A166 (1964). * [11] R. Caton and R. Viswanathan, Phys. Rev. B
**25**, 179 (1982). * [12] N. R. Werthamer, E. Helfand, and P. C.
Hohenberg, Phys. Rev. **147**, 295 (1966). * [13] K. M. Wong, E. J.
Cotts, and S. J. Poon, Phys. Rev. B **30**, 1253 (1984). * [14] K. Maki,
Phys. Rev. **148**, 362 (1966). * [15] C. Walti, E. Felder, M. A.
Chemikov, H. R. Ott, M. de Boissieu, and C. Janot, Phys. Rev. B **57**,
10504 (1998). * [16] W. L. McMillan, Phys. Rev. **167**, 331 (1968). *
[17] B. Muhlschlegel, Z. Phys. **155**, 313 (1959). * [18] A. Junod, D.
Bichsel, and J. Muller, Helv. Phys. Acta **52**, 580 (1979). * [19] A.
Junod, T. Jarlborg, and J. Muller, Phys. Rev. B **27**, 1568 (1983). *
[20] St. Berger, Ph.D. thesis, TU Wien, 2003. * [21] E. Belin and J. M.
Dubois (unpublished). * [22] G. C. Cater, L. H. Bennet, and D. J. Kahan,
Progress in Material Science (Pergamon, New York, 1977). * [23] K.
Kumagai and F. Y. Fradin, Phys. Rev. B **27**, 2770 (1983). * [24] See,
for example, M. Tinkham, _Introduction to Superconductivity_
(McGraw-Hill, New York, 1975). * [25] See, for example, R. R. Hake,
Phys. Rev. **158**, 356 (1967). * [26] See, for example, C. P. Poole, H.
A. Farach, and R. J. Creswick, _Superconductivity_ (Academic, San Diego,
1995). * [27] L. P. Gorkov, Zh. Eksp. Teor. Fiz. **37**, 1407 (1959)
[Sov. Phys. JETP **10**, 998 (1960)]; B. B. Goodman, IBM J. Res. Dev.
**6**, 62 (1962). * [28] W. L. Johnson, S. J. Poon, and P. Duwez, Phys.
Rev. B **11**, 150 (1975). * [29] W. L. Johnson and S. J. Poon, J. Appl.
Phys. **46**, 1787 (1975). * [30] P. W. Anderson, J. Phys. Chem. Solids
**11**, 26 (1958). * [31] P. W. Anderson, Phys. Rev. B **30**, 4000
(1984). * [32] L. P. Gor’kov and E. I. Rashba, Phys. Rev. Lett. **87**,
037004 (2001). * [33] E. Bauer, H. Kaldarar, A. Prokofiev, E. Royanian,
A. Amato, J. Sereni, W. Brammer-Escamilla, and I. Bonalde, J. Phys. Soc.
Jpn. **76**, 051009 (2007).
