Pressure-induced enhancement of superconductivity and quantum
criticality in the 12442-type hybrid-structure superconductor
KCa₂Fe₄As₄F₂

Bosen Wang, Zhi-Cheng Wang, Kento Ishigaki, Kazuyuki Matsubayashi,
Tetsujiro Eto, Jianping Sun, Jin-Guang Cheng, Guang-Han Cao, and Yoshiya
Uwatoko²

bswang@iphy.ac.cn ¹Beijing National Laboratory for Condensed Matter
Physics and Institute of Physics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing
100190, China ²Institute for Solid State Physics, University of Tokyo,
Kashiwanoha 5-1-5, Kashiwa, Chiba 277-8581, Japan ³Department of Physics
and State Key Laboratory of Silicon Materials, Zhejiang University,
Hangzhou 310027, China ⁴Faculty of Engineering, Kurame Institute of
Technology, Kurame, Fukuoka 830-0052, Japan ⁵Songshan Lake Materials
Laboratory, Dongguan, Guangdong 523808, China

###### Abstract

We report a domelike superconductivity and quantum criticality in the
12442-type hybrid-structure superconductor KCa₂Fe₄As₄F₂ under
hydrostatic pressures up to 15 GPa. It is found that the superconducting
transition temperature (T_(c)) increases from ∼33.5 K at ambient
pressure to a maximum of ∼36.5 K at 2 GPa in the background of enhanced
resistivity of the (K, Rb, Cs) Ca₂Fe₄As₄F₂ at ambient pressure (AP), and
then shows a slope change near 8 GPa with anomalous characteristics of
resistivity. T_(c) is found to be inversely proportional to the
characteristic temperature of the coherence-incoherence crossover. The
plots of resistivity at various temperatures and pressures and
high-pressure x-ray diffraction confirm no pressure-induced half
collapse of the tetragonal structure below 15 GPa. The pressure-induced
crossover from non-Fermi liquid (the temperature exponent n ∼ 1.05 ± 0.1
at AP) to Fermi liquid (n ∼ 1.92 ± 0.1 at 15 GPa) is accompanied by the
reduction of the linear temperature coefficient of normal-state
resistivity, nearly two orders of magnitude compared to AP. These
characteristics are ascribed to the weakening electronic correlation
and/or critical fluctuations by pressure.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevB.99.014501

Recently, the hybrid structures, or the intergrowths, of FeAs-based
superconductors (SCs) have been extensively studied [1, 2, 3, 4, 5].
Different from the previously reported solid solutions, the independent
alkali-metal, alkaline-earth, and/or rare-earth ions are stacked orderly
across the double Fe₂As₂ layers [1, 2, 3]. The resulting asymmetric
Fe₂As₂ layers as well as the lengthening c axis and c/a ratio make their
band structures and Fermi surfaces more complicated compared to other
FeAs-based SCs [2, 6]. Until now, 1144- and 12442-type hybrid structures
have been reported by combining various 122- and/or 1111-type FeAs-based
materials, which are usually low-T_(c) SCs and/or non-SCs [1, 2, 3, 7,
8]. At ambient pressure (AP), hybrid structures usually exhibit bulk
superconductivity with higher T_(c) of ∼30-37 K [1, 2, 3, 4, 5] and
share many common features, e.g., multiband effect [6, 9, 10],
unconventional superconductivity [11, 12], and structural instability
[4, 13]. Especially, several rare-earth contained hybrid structures
display unusual coexistence of ferromagnetism and superconductivity [3,
14, 13], providing a platform to study the interplay of structure,
magnetism, and superconductivity.

The 12442-type hybrid structure is the intergrowth of 1111- and 122-type
FeAs-based materials, e.g., CaFeAsF and (K, Rb, Cs)Fe₂As₂[2, 6]. The
recently discovered KCa₂Fe₄As₄F₂ with T_(c) ∼ 33.2 K is the very first
example [2]. It consists of alternate stacking of the conducting Fe₂As₂
layers and insulating Ca₂F₂-charge reservoir layers. Internal charge
transfers between double Fe₂As₂ layers (from CaFeAsF to KFe₂As₂) along
with the change of Fe valence state, termed as self-doping, can explain
its higher T_(c)[2, 6, 15]. Differently, the substitutions of Co for Fe
can suppress the superconducting state with the loss of bulk SCs for the
Co/Fe ratio over 1/3, when the dominant charge carries change from p
type to n type accompanied with the variation of Fermi surfaces.
However, it was believed that the Co/Fe disorders rather than chemical
pressure play an important role for suppressing the SC [5]. The absence
of magnetic ordering here is inconsistent with the case of the
Co/Ni-doped 1144-type KCaFe₄As₄ with spin-vortex crystal-type orderings
[16]. In addition, a nodal multigapped SC has been proposed via the
transverse-field muon spin rotation (μSR), similar to the cases of (Rb,
Cs) Ca₂Fe₄As₄F₂[10] and KCaFe₄As₄[9]. Theoretical calculations also
support the above scenario [6]. KCa₂Fe₄As₄F₂ is suggested to have
multiband character with ten bands across the Fermi level and strong
tendency towards the stripe antiferromagnetic order [6, 17], which is
suppressed by charge redistributions, and superconductivity emerges.
These characteristics indicate that KCa₂Fe₄As₄F₂ is close to a quantum
critical point (QCP) with enhanced critical fluctuations, and studies on
high-pressure effect can deepen the understanding of the underlying
physical mechanisms. The indirect effect of the alkali-metal element
substitution in (K, Rb, Cs) Ca₂Fe₄As₄F₂ has been investigated and the
results show that T_(c) decreases with increasing the lattice parameters
a and c. In contrast, an opposite trend of T_(c) was observed in the
1144-type hybrid structures [2, 18]. It is argued that the coupling
strengths of the asymmetrical double Fe₂As₂ layers affect T_(c) in (K,
Rb, Cs) Ca₂Fe₄As₄F₂ while in some oxygen-containing 12442-type
hybrid-structure SCs the interlayer couplings and structural instability
are thought to be more crucial to superconducting pairings [19].
Detailed studies have revealed that T_(c) is related to the c/a ratio of
12442-type SCs and tends to increase with enhanced lattice mismatch
between CaFeAsF and KFe₂As₂ blocks [20]. However, the physical pressure
effect has not been reported until now to our knowledge. In this regard,
one interesting point is the pressure-induced collapse of tetragonal
phase. KCaFe₄As₄ undergoes first a half-collapsed tetragonal transition
at ∼4 GPa and the loss of bulk superconductivity, and then second a
complete-collapsed tetragonal transition at ∼12 GPa [4]. It originates
from the As-As bonding passing through the Ca layers at first, and then
across the K layer with larger ionic radius. Similar structural
transitions have been reported in 1144-type (Cs, Rb)EuFe₄As₄ with the
first collapses of the Eu layers [13]. In summary, the 12442-type hybrid
structures (K, Rb, Cs) Ca₂Fe₄As₄F₂ are good candidates to explore new
structures and high-T_(c) SCs by pressure.

High pressure is a clean method to manipulate crystal structure and
electronic properties of materials without introducing any disorder and
impurity. It shortens bond distances and affects electron correlations
and band structures. The evolution of T_(c) as a function of pressure
and the related parameters can provide valuable information on the
underlying mechanism. In this paper, we report the hydrostatic pressure
effect of the 12442-type hole-doped KCa₂Fe₄As₄F₂ studied by electrical
transport and x-ray diffraction up to 15 GPa. T_(c) increases from ∼33.5
K at ambient pressure to ∼36.5 K at 2 GPa and shows a slope change
around 8 GPa. A crossover from non-Fermi-liquid to Fermi-liquid behavior
was also revealed.

High-quality KCa₂Fe₄As₄F₂ samples were prepared via solid-state reaction
as described previously [2]. Magnetic properties are measured in a
piston cylinder cell up to 1.25 GPa on the commercialized
superconducting quantum interference device. Bulk Pb is used as the
pressure manometer and glycerol is used as the pressure transmitting
medium (PTM). Glycerol is an isotropic liquid and hydrostatic pressure
can be retained in the present pressure range. Electrical resistivity
under pressure is performed by four-probe method in a cubic anvil
pressure cell, which generates much higher hydrostatic pressures up to
15 GPa with multiple-anvil geometry [21]. MgO and pyrophyllite cubes are
used as gasket and glycerol is used as PTM. Two samples, 1 and 2, are
measured in a ⁴He refrigerated chamber (1.9 ≤T≤ 300 K).

Figure 1 shows temperature dependence of resistivity ρ(T) of
KCa₂Fe₄As₄F₂ under various pressures. ρ(T) appears as metallic behavior
with positive temperature coefficients. Moreover, a gradual change in
the slope of ρ(T) appears in the high-temperature region, which is
generally regarded as the coherence-incoherence crossover in the heavily
hole-doped FeSCs [2]. In this paper, we estimated this characteristic
temperature T^(*) by the intersection of two lines across the
experimental data as shown in Fig. 1S in Supplemental Material [22]. At
AP, T^(*) is about 150 K. In references, this crossover is usually
proposed to describe the interactions between itinerant electrons and
local magnetic moments and is accompanied by the changes in magnetic
susceptibility [23,24]. As shown in Fig. 1, resistivity decreases
linearly on cooling from ∼100 K and enters into the superconducting
state. The superconducting transition is marked by T_(c)^( onset) and
T_(c)^( zero), which are defined as the temperatures where resistivity
departs from the linear behavior and reaches zero, respectively [Figs.
1(c) and 1(d)]. At AP, T_(c)^( onset)(T_(c)^( zero)) is ∼33.5 K (∼32.2
K), basically consistent with previous reports [2,18]. The application
of pressure reduces substantially the room-temperature resistivity at 15
GPa, reaching nearly 1/3 of that at AP. ρ(T) shows gradual decrease for
each run without sample dependence in Figs. 1(a) and 1(b). As seen in
the enlarged view of low-temperature ρ(T) in Figs. 1(c) and 1(d), the
superconducting transition broadens as the pressure increases. Pressure
dependences of ρ(T_(c)), T_(c)^( onset), T_(c)^( zero),
ΔT( = T_(c)^( onset) − T_(c)^( zero)), and T^(*) are summarized in Figs.
2(b)-2(e) together with those of (K, Rb, Cs) Ca₂Fe₄As₄F₂ at AP for
comparison. As the pressure increases, the coherence-incoherence
crossover temperature T^(*) shifts to higher temperatures, reaching ∼235
K at 15 GPa. Similar behaviors have been observed in other FeAs-based
materials [23,24], reflecting the fact that high pressure broadens the
bandwidth and enhances the electronic itinerancy [25]. We investigate
possible structural changes by examining the resistivity at fixed
temperatures as a function of pressure. Usually, structural
transformation can affect magnetic interactions and the electronic
density of states near the Fermi level, and thus can be

Figure 1: (a, b) Temperature dependence of resistivity ρ(T) for (a) run
1 up to 8.0 GPa and (b) run 2 up to 15 GPa. (c, d) The enlargement of
low-Tρ(T) for (c) run 1 and (d) run 2. The arrows in Figs. 1(c)–1(f)
denote the superconducting transition temperatures T_(c)^( onset) and
T_(c)^( zero), respectively. (e, f) Magnetic susceptible M(T) under
zero-field cooling process at a magnetic field of H = 10 Oe: (e) M(T)
curves and (f) the enlargement of M(T) curves near T_(c). The inset in
panel (f) shows the superconducting transition temperatures T_(c)^( M)
as a function of pressure. The arrows in panels (c)–(f) represent the
T_(c)^( M) and its variation trends with pressure.

reflected as a change of resistivity. For example, the pressure-induced
collapse and half collapse of tetragonal structures have been identified
as the jump of resistivity in KFe₂As₂ and KCaFe₄As₄, respectively [4,
26]. In KCa₂Fe₄As₄F₂, resistivity with pressure at various temperatures
[Figs. 3(a) and 3(b)] shows a smooth decrease as a function of pressure
without obvious deviation, implying the absence of structural transition
up to 15 GPa. Meanwhile, high-pressure x-ray diffraction was also
preformed up to 15.86 GPa at room temperature as shown in Fig. 2S in
Supplemental Material [22] and the absence of clear splitting or
additional diffraction peaks versus pressures further confirmed that
there is no pressure-induced half collapse of tetragonal structure below
15 GPa. The evolution of T_(c) is checked further by comparing M(T)
curves under zero-field cooling process at a magnetic field of H = 10
Oe. Magnetic susceptibility under pressure was measured for KCa₂Fe₄As₄F₂
in a piston cylinder cell. Large magnetic shielding effect below T_(c)
is found as the evidence of bulk superconductivity in Figs. 1(e) and
1(f). The estimated superconducting volume fraction is found to be ∼100

In Fig. 2(a), a temperature-pressure phase diagram is constructed by
summarizing these above data and those of (K, Rb, Cs) Ca₂Fe₄As₄F₂ at AP
from Ref. [18]. A domelike superconducting phase diagram is revealed
with a maximum value of ∼36.5 K near 2 GPa in the background of enhanced
resistivity of (Rb, Cs) Ca₂Fe₄As₄F₂. At AP, superconductivity emerges
with larger normal-state residual resistivity, while the residual
resistivity at 15 GPa is nearly one order of magnitude smaller than that
of AP. The details are given in Fig. 2(b), in which the normal-state
resistivity just above T_(c), ρ(T_(c)), shows a gradual decrease as the
pressure increases. It can be understood as follows: chemical doping
influences band structures by changing electronic density of states at
the Fermi energy level and/or shifting the position of the Fermi level,
while high pressure can broaden the bandwidth and enhances the
itinerancy of electrons. Another reason is the different compression
ratios of crystal axes: the chemical pressure from Cs, Rb, and K
shortens the c axis more strongly in comparison with the a axis while
both crystallographic axes are compressed under physical pressure. As
shown in Fig. 2(c), T_(c)${}^{\rm onset}$ is increased from ∼33.5 K at
ambient pressure to ∼36.5 K near 2 GPa with a slope change near 8 GPa
while the T_(c)${}^{\rm zero}$ value decreases. ΔT_(c) increases
gradually and reaches a maximum of ∼12 K at 6.0 GPa, and then decreases
to ∼10 K at 15 GPa. The stress effect and the enhanced anisotropy under
pressure may be the main reasons for the broadening of the
superconducting transition.

Temperature dependence of normal-state resistivity in the vicinity of
T_(c) provides important information on the superconducting properties.
ρ(T) data of KCa₂Fe₄As₄F₂ at T_(c) < T < 80 K are analyzed by fitting
with ρ = ρ₀ + AT^(n) where ρ₀ is the residual resistivity and A and n
are the temperature coefficient and the exponent. The value of n shows a
gradual increase from ∼1.05 ± 0.1 at AP to ∼1.92 ± 0.1 at 15 GPa,
indicating the recovery of the Fermi-liquid state by the application of
pressure. According to the literature [10, 11], KCa₂Fe₄As₄F₂ is a
multigap superconductor with strong magnetic fluctuations above T_(c)
that are related to its non-Fermi-liquid behavior. Interestingly,
high-T_(c) SC at lower pressure with an unconventional non-Fermi-liquid
state is changed into low-T_(c) SC at elevated pressures with a
Fermi-liquid behavior in the normal state. We noticed that these
fittings are too simple to give more information on the multiband
effects. In Figs. 4(a) and 4(b), we thus adopt an empirical formula
ρ = ρ₀ + A₁T + A₂T² to construct the relation between the evolution of
temperature coefficient and T_(c) as mentioned earlier [27, 28]. All the
parameters in Fig. 4 are obtained from the

Figure 3: (a, b) Resistivity vs pressure at various temperatures for (a)
run 1 up to 8.0 GPa and (b) run 2 up to 15 GPa. Resistivity decreases
smoothly with increasing the pressure without any departures, suggesting
no structural transition below 15 GPa. (c–e) Pressure dependence of
lattice parameters (a, c, c/a, and V) and the relative shrinkage (a/a₀,
c/c₀, and V/V₀).

Figure 2: (a) Temperature-pressure phase diagram of (K, Rb, Cs)
Ca₂Fe₄As₄F₂ and KCa₂Fe₄As₄F₂ under pressure; the changing colors
describe the evolution of resistivity with pressure. (b–e) Pressure
dependence of parameters for (K, Rb, Cs) Ca₂Fe₄As₄F₂; (b) ρ(T_(c)), (c)
T_(c)${}^{\rm onset}$ and T_(c)${}^{\rm zero}$, (d) ΔT_(c) (defined as
the difference of T_(c)${}^{\rm onset}_{c}$ and
T_(c)${}^{\rm zero}_{c}$), and (e) the value of T^(*) to describe the
coherence-incoherence crossover.

best fit to experimental data (T_(c) < T < 80 K) as presented in Figs.
4(c)-4(f). The A₂T² term describes Fermi liquid and the A₁T term
reflects electronic correlations and scattering, e.g., the
electron-boson interaction and/or the critical fluctuations near the
QCP. Pressure dependences of these parameters are compared: ρ₀ shows a
broad peak around 8.0 GPa, and its enhancement is similar to that of the
Co substitution [5]. However, high pressure does not introduce any
disorder. In other reports, the increases of ρ₀ can be taken as an
evidence for the collapse of tetragonal structure [4,27], which is
inconsistent with the above high-pressure structural study. Therefore,
the increase of ρ₀ is an evidence for an electronic phase transition. To
make the results more credible, we describe the relative changes of
A₁(P)/A₁(AP) and A₂(P)/A₂(AP) since they are not single crystals. As the
pressure increases, the value of A₁(P)/A₁(AP) decreases linearly by
nearly two orders of magnitude compared to AP, coinciding with the
suppression of T_(c). This observation implies that the T-linear term
plays an important role in gluing the superconducting pairings. Thus,
the resulting overall trend of change is that the value of T_(c)
decreases gradually with increasing pressure. Meanwhile, the
A₂(P)/A₂(AP) shows an enhancement near 2 GPa, which matches perfectly
with the peak value of T_(c) as presented in Fig. 2(a). As mentioned
above, the A₂(P)/A₂(AP) is usually proportional to the square of the
Sommerfeld coefficient via the Kadowaki-Woods relationship, and a
measure of density of states at Fermi level N(E_(F)); thus, the enhanced
T_(c) near 2 GPa is attributed to the increasing value of N(E_(F)) by
pressure. With further increasing pressure, the A₂(P)/A₂(AP) value shows
an increasing trend near 8 GPa, which is responsible for the slope
change of T_(c). Considering its multi-gap characteristic, other factors
such as pressure variation of phonon models may affect T_(c) and its
pressure dependence. The combined interplay of these factors would be
important to fully understand the evolution of T_(c) with pressure.

Finally, we discuss the evolution of T_(c) with pressure in
KCa₂Fe₄As₄F₂. As mentioned above, the enhancement of T_(c) near 2 GPa
correlates with the increasing values of A₂(P)/A₂(AP) and N(E_(F))
according to the Kadowaki-Woods relationship. A likely reason of this
phenomenon is different compression ratios of KFe₂As₂ units and CaFeAsF
blocks by pressure, which result in charge redistributions. The
self-doping is possible and requires further verifications of the Fe
valence state. According to the pressure dependence of lattice
parameters in Figs. 3(c)-3(e) and the reported ones of (Cs, Rb,
K)Fe₂As₂[18,26,29], the alkali-metal element substitution and high
pressure are summarized: with increasing the substitution from Cs, Rb,
and K, lattice parameters a, c, and c/a and the volume V decrease by
about −0.41, −3.7, −3.2, and −4.2

Figure 4: (a, b) The normal-state ρ(T) just above T_(c) was analyzed by
the formula ρ = ρ₀ + A₁T + A₂T² for (a) run 1 and (b) run 2. ρ₀
represents the residual resistivity and the parameters A, A₁, and A₂ are
the temperature coefficients. To make the results more credible, we
describe the relative changes of A₁(P)/A₁(AP) and A₂(P)/A₂(AP) since
they are not single crystals. (c–f) Pressure dependence of the related
parameters: (c) ρ₀, (d) exponent n, (e) A₁(P)/A₁(AP) value, and (f)
A₂(P)/A₂(AP) value. The solid black lines indicate the changing trends
of these parameters.

∼−5.2

In summary, hydrostatic pressure effect on the normal and
superconducting states of KCa₂Fe₄As₄F₂ has been investigated. _Tc_
increases from ∼33.5 K at ambient pressure to ∼36.5 K near 2 GPa with a
slope change around 8 GPa. The value of _Tc_ is found to be inversely
proportional to the characteristic temperature of the
coherence-incoherence crossover. Both electrical resistivity versus
temperatures/pressures and high-pressure x-ray diffraction suggest the
absence of a pressure-induced half-collapsed tetragonal phase below 15
GPa. Pressure-induced crossover from non-Fermi-liquid (the exponent
n ∼ 1.05 ± 0.1 at ambient pressure) to Fermi-liquid behavior
(n ∼ 1.92 ± 0.1 at 15 GPa) was revealed.

We thank S. Nagasaki and Dr. Gouchi for technical assistance. This work
is supported by the National Key Research and Development Program of
China (Grants No. 2018YFA0305700 and No. 2018YFA0305800), the Strategic
Priority Research Program and Key Research Program of Frontier Sciences
of the Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS Grants No. XDB07020100 and No.
QYZDB-SSW-SLH013), National Natural Science Foundation of China (Grant
No. 11574377), IOP Hundred-Talent Program (Grant No. Y7K5031X61), Youth
Promotion Association, and CAS (Grant No. 2018010).

## References

* [1] A. Iyo, K. Kawashima, T. Kinjo, T. Nishio, S. Ishida, H. Fujihisa,
Y. Gotoh, K. Kihou, H. Eisaki, and Y. Yoshida, J. Am. Chem. Soc.
**138**, 3410 (2016). * [2] Z.-C. Wang, C.-Y. He, S.-Q. Wu, Z. T. Tang,
Y. Liu, A. Ablimit, C.-M. Feng, and G.-H. Cao, J. Am. Chem. Soc.
**138**, 7856 (2016). * [3] Y. Liu, Y. B. Liu, Z. T. Tang, H. Jiang,
Z.-C. Wang, A. Ablimit, W. H. Jiao, Q. Tao, C.-M. Feng, Z.-A. Xu, and
G.-H. Cao, Phys. Rev. B **93**, 214503 (2016). * [4] U. S. Kaluarachchi,
V. Taufour, A. Sapkota, V. Borisov, T. Kong, W. R. Meier, K. Kothapalli,
B. G. Ueland, A. Kreyssig, R. Valenti, R. J. McQueeney, A. I. Goldman,
S. L. Budko, and P. C. Canfield, Phys. Rev. B **96**, 140501(R)
(2017). * [5] J. Ishida, S. Iimura, and H. Hosono, Phys. Rev. B **96**,
174522 (2017). * [6] G. T. Wang, Z. W. Wang, and X. B. Shi, Europhys.
Lett **116**, 37003 (2016). * [7] A. Iyo, K. Kawashima, S. Ishida, H.
Fujihisa, Y. Gotoh, H. Eisaki, and Y. Yoshida, J. Am. Chem. Soc.
**140**, 369 (2018). * [8] J.-K. Bao, K. Willa, M. P. Smylie, H. J.
Chen, U. Welp, D. Y. Chung, and M. G. Kanatzidis, Cryst. Growth Des.
**18**, 3517 (2018). * [9] K. Cho, A. Fente, S. Teknowijoyo, M. A.
Tanatar, K. R. Joshi, N. M. Nusran, T. Kong, W. R. Meier, U.
Kaluarachchi, I. Guillamon, H. Suderow, S. L. Budko, P. C. Canfield, and
R. Prozorov, Phys. Rev. B **95**, 100502 (R) (2017). * [10] F. K. K.
Kirschner, D. T. Adroja, Z.-C. Wang, F. Lang, M. Smidman, P. J. Baker,
G.-H. Cao, and S. J. Blundell, Phys. Rev. B **97**, 060506(R) (2018); D.
T. Adroja, F. K. K. Kirschner, F. Lang, M. Smidman, A. D. Hillier, Z.-C.
Wang, G.-H. Cao, G. B. G. Stenning, and S. J. Blundell, J. Phys. Soc.
Jpn. **87**, 124705 (2018). * [11] R. Yang, Y. M. Dai, B. Xu, W. Zhang,
Z. Y. Qiu, Q. T. Sui, C. C. Homes, and X. G. Qiu, Phys. Rev. B **95**,
064506 (2017). * [12] Q.-P. Ding, W. R. Meier, A. E. Bohmer, S. L.
Budko, P. C. Canfield, and Y. Furukawa, Phys. Rev. B **96**, 220510(R)
(2017). * [13] D. E. Jackson, D. VanGennep, W. Bi, D. Z. Zhang, P.
Materne, Y. Liu, G.-H. Cao, S. T. Weir, Y. K. Vohra, and J. J. Hamlin,
Phys. Rev. B **98**, 014518 (2018). * [14] M. P. Smylie, K. Willa, J.-K.
Bao, K. Ryan, Z. Islam, H. Claus, Y. Simsek, Z. Diao, A. Rydh, A. E.
Koshelev, W.-K. Kwok, D. Y. Chung, M. G. Kanatzidis, and U. Welp, Phys.
Rev. B **98**, 104503 (2018). * [15] Z.-C. Wang, C.-Y. He, S.-Q. Wu,
Z.-T. Tang, Y. Liu, A. Ablimit, Q. Tao, C.-M. Feng, Z.-A. Xu, and G.-H.
Cao, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter **29**, 11LT01 (2017). * [16] W. R.
Meier, Q.-P. Ding, A. Kreyssig, S. L. Bud’ko, A. Sapkota, K. Kothapalli,
V. Borisov, R. Valenti, C. D. Batista, P. P. Orth, R. M. Fernandes, A.
I. Goldman, Y. Furukawa, A. E. Bohmer, and P. C. Canfield, npj Quantum
Mater. **3**, 5 (2018). * [17] S. Yang, W. L. You, S. J. Gu, and H. Q.
Lin, Chin. Phys. Soc. **18**, 1674 (2009). * [18] Z.-C. Wang, C. Y. He,
Z. T. Tang, S. Q. Wu, and G.-H. Cao, Sci. China Mater. **60**, 83
(2017). * [19] Z.-C. Wang, C. Y. He, S. Q. Wu, Z. T. Tang, Y. Liu, and
G.-H. Cao, Chem. Mater. **29**, 1805 (2017). * [20] S. Q. Wu, Z.-C.
Wang, C.-Y. He, Z.-T. Tang, Y. Liu, and G.-H. Cao, Phys. Rev. Mater.
**1**, 044804 (2017). * [21] N. Mori, H. Takahashi, and N. Takeshita,
High Pressure Res. **24**, 225 (2004). * [22] See Supplemental Material
at http://link.aps.org/supplemental/10.1103/PhysRevB.99.014501 for the
summary of electrical transport at ambient pressure and high pressures
and high-pressure x-ray diffraction. * [23] F. Hardy, A. E. Bohmer, D.
Aoki, P. Burger, T. Wolf, P. Schweiss, R. Heid, P. Adelmann, Y. X. Yao,
G. Kotliar, J. Schmalian, and C. Meingast, Phys. Rev. Lett. **111**,
027002 (2013). * [24] Y. P. Wu, D. Zhao, A. F. Wang, N. Z. Wang, Z. J.
Xiang, X. G. Luo, T. Wu, and X. H. Chen, Phys. Rev. Lett **116**, 147001
(2016). * [25] P. Wiecki, V. Taufour, D. Y. Chung, M. G. Kanatzidis, S.
L. Budko, P. C. Canfield, and Y. Furukawa, Phys. Rev. B **97**, 064509
(2018). * [26] Y. Nakajima, R. X. Wang, T. Metz, X. F. Wang, L. M. Wang,
H. Cynn, S. T. Weir, J. R. Jeffries, and J. Paglione, Phys. Rev. B
**91**, 060508(R) (2015). * [27] M. Nakajima, S. Ishida, T. Tanaka, K.
Kihou, Y. Tomioka, T. Saito, C. H. Lee, H. Fukazawa, Y. Kohori, T.
Kakeshita, A. Iyo, T. Ito, H. Eisaki, and S. Uchida, Sci. Rep. **4**,
5873 (2014).

* Cooper _et al._ (2009) R. A. Cooper, Y. Wang, B. Vignolle, O. J.
Lipscombe, S. M. Hayden, Y. Tanabe, T. Adachi, Y. Koike, M. Nohara, H.
Takagi, C. Proust, and N. E. Hussey, Science **323**, 603 (2009). *
Mishra _et al._ (2011) S. K. Mishra, R. Mittal, S. L. Chaplot, S. V.
Ovsyannikov, D. M. Trots, L. Dubrovinsky, Y. Su, Th. Brueckel, S.
Matsuishi, H. Hosono, and G. Garbarino, Phys. Rev. B **84**, 224513
(2011). * Yu _et al._ (2014) Z. Yu, L. Wang, L. Wang, H. Liu, J. Zhao,
C. Li, S. Sinogeikin, W. Wu, J. Luo, N. Wang, K. Yang, Y. Zhao, and
H.-K. Mao, Sci. Rep. **4**, 7172 (2014).
